Abstract An embodied approach to reading comprehension suggests that emerging
readers must learn to map words and phrases onto their remembered experiences, but this is
made difcult by the necessity of focusing attention on decoding. Having children manip-
ulate toys to correspond to what they are reading overcomes this problem, but introduces its
own problem for the classroom, namely having to provide a classroom full of children with
manipulative. In this article, we demonstrate that having rst- and second-grade children
manipulate images of toys on a computer screen benets their comprehension as much as
physical manipulation of the toys. In addition, manipulation on one day facilitates reading in
the same domain one week later. These ndings encourage the use of manipulation of text-
relevant images as an educational technology for enhancing early reading comprehension.
The ndings also set constraints on theoretical accounts of embodiment while reading.
Keywords Reading comprehension  Embodiment  Educational technology 
Emerging readers  Computer aided instruction

Introduction

Overview

What does it mean to comprehend a written text? One answer, based on an embodied
approach to cognition, is that successful comprehension requires (a) mapping words and
phrases to current or remembered experiences and (b) using syntax to guide the appropriate

A. M. Glenberg (&)
Department of Psychology, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287-1104, USA
e-mail: glenberg@asu.edu

A. M. Glenberg
Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA
A. B. Goldberg  X. Zhu
Department of Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA

123

28

A. M. Glenberg et al.

integration of those experiences. These processes are particularly difcult for the emerging
reader because learning to read out loud forces attention to decoding orthography into
phonology. With attention focused on decoding, there is scant attention to comprehension
that is, mapping the words onto experiences. Moved by Reading is an intervention designed
to address this problem by providing the appropriate experiences while reading and
teaching children how to relate the written words to those experiences. Previous work has
demonstrated the success of this intervention, but only when children are given the
opportunity to directly interact with their environments to produce the experiences. Here
we ask whether a computer can provide equally effective experience for the emerging
reader.

Two approaches to reading comprehension

An inuential theory of reading comprehension was developed by Kintsch (1998). In that
theory, comprehension requires the construction and integration of propositions. Each
proposition corresponds to a simple idea, and it consists of abstract, symbolic represen-
tation of concepts linked by abstract relations such as give, object, and recipient. This
theory has inspired a tremendous amount of research, most of which supports the theory at
least in broad outline. Nonetheless, this approach falls prey to the symbol grounding
problem, namely, how are the abstract symbols given meaning?

The abstract symbols in Kintschs theory are similar to the data in a computer memory
location, that is, they are arbitrarily related to the symbols referent. For the computer
symbol, meaning is provided by a human observer interpreting the symbol. But, who or
what interprets the abstract symbols of the mind? One possibility (see Kintsch 2008;
Landauer and Dumais 1997) is that the density of connections among abstract symbols is
sufcient to support meaning. However, theoretical analyses (Harnad 1990; Searle 1980)
and empirical investigations (e.g., Glenberg and Mehta 2008, in press) suggest that this
will not work.

Harnad (1990) uses the symbol merry-go-round argument to demonstrate why con-
nections amongst abstract symbols cannot lead to meaning. Imagine that you are arriving
in a foreign country, and that you do not speak the local language. At your disposal you
have a dictionary written solely in the foreign language without English translations. As
you step off the airplane, you see a sign, and you wish to understand its meaning. You look
up in the dictionary the rst word in the sign. Because the denition is in the foreign
language, it does not make any sense to you, thus you look up the rst word in the
denition, but it too does not help, and so you look up the rst word in that denition. From
this example, it is clear that no many how many words (abstract symbols) you look up, that
is no matter how many relations that you trace amongst the symbols, you will be unable to
determine the meaning of the sign solely from relations amongst the symbols. Harnad (and
others) suggest that one must step off the symbol merry-go-round by grounding, or
mapping, the symbols to something (e.g., bodily experiences) outside of the symbol
system.

Glenberg and Mehta (2008, 2009b) investigated this issue empirically. Participants in
their experiments memorized four different types of relations (e.g., can has as part)
between objects and features. The objects, features, and their frequencies of presentation
corresponded directly to a well-known semantic domain, namely two-wheeled vehicles
found on campus. Whereas the names of the relations were given to the participants, the
name of the domain, the names of the objects, and the names of the features were not
revealed to the participants. The question of major interest was whether the participants

123

Improving early reading comprehension using embodied CAI

29

could induce the domain and objects from the memorized relations alone. The answer was
that they could not. In another experiment, participants were given the name of the domain,
names of the relations, names of three of six objects (road bike, mountain bike, motor-
cycle), and names of 14 of the 29 features. Participants memorized relations among both
the named and unnamed objects and features. The question of interest was again whether
participants could induce the meaning of the unnamed objects and features. They could
not. Hence, both logical analysis (Harnad 1990; Searle 1980) and data indicate that
meaning cannot arise solely from relations amongst abstract features.

An alternative approach can be developed from the perspective of embodied cognition:
high-level cognitive processes (e.g., language, mathematics) are grounded in bodily mech-
anisms of perception, action, and affect (Barsalou 1999, 2008; Semin and Smith 2008). The
Indexical Hypothesis (Glenberg and Robertson 1999; Glenberg and Kaschak 2002) is one
such theory. It supposes that language comprehension requires that the abstract symbols of
language (i.e., words and syntax) be mapped onto embodied experiences or representations of
those experiences. These experiences may be provided by sensing the environment, as when
looking at a cup while someone is talking about that cup. Alternatively, these experiences
may be provided by perceptual symbols (Barsalou 1999) in memory. A perceptual symbol is
an analog representation consisting of the partial re-activation of the same neural systems
active when the object was apprehended. A tremendous amount of data from neuroscience
(e.g., Glenberg et al. 2008; Pulvermuller 2008) and psychological research (e.g., Glenberg
and Kaschak 2002; Zwaan and Taylor 2006) has demonstrated the importance of such
grounded representations for language comprehension.

The Moved by Reading intervention

On this embodied account of language comprehension, why is reading so much more
difcult to acquire than an oral language? To put it differently, how is it that a child is able
to decode text and say it out loud, but still not understand (e.g., Oakhill et al. 2003)? One
possibility is that during oral language learning, the mapping between symbol (word) and
object is commonplace. For example, a mother says, Here is your cup, and hands the cup
to the infant, or a father says, Wave bye-bye, while gesturing the action. In contrast,
when learning to read, a child must focus on the letter-sound correspondences and on
blending those sounds to produce the proper pronunciation of the word. It is unlikely that
the words referent is anywhere in the environment, and even when a text may be
accompanied by pictures, reference to the pictures is unlikely to be systematic. (Even
though sensitive teachers may well point to pictures while the teacher reads to the class, the
important behavior is for the child to refer words to grounded experiences, such as pictures,
while the child is reading.) In this case, reading becomes a meaningless exercise in word
calling, much like trying to read a text in a language one does not understand. Oakhill et al.
(2003) demonstrate that a non-negligible proportion of students successfully decode but
with little comprehension. That is, reading aloud sentences composed of words in the
childs vocabulary does not guarantee comprehension.

The Moved by Reading intervention consists of two types of activities designed to teach
children how to map words and phrases onto current and remembered experiences. During
the physical manipulation (PM) stage, children read simple texts about activities within a
particular scenario (e.g., a farm scenario). In front of the child is a set of toys such as a toy
barn, tractor, animals, etc. Critical sentences are cued with a picture of a green trafc light.
After the child reads a critical sentence (e.g., The farmer brings hay to the horse), the
child acts out the sentence using the toys, thus forcing the child to connect words to

123

30

A. M. Glenberg et al.

particular objects and syntactic relations (e.g., who did what to whom) to actions. On a
comprehension test following reading, children who engage in PM often perform one to
two standard deviations better than children who read the same text, but instead of
manipulating the toys, these children re-read critical sentences (Glenberg et al. 2004, 2007;
Marley et al. 2007).

Following PM, children are taught to imagine manipulating (IM) the toys. That is, upon
seeing the green light, they are taught to imagine how they would interact with the toys to act
out the sentence. IM produces gains that are similar in size to those produced by PM
(Glenberg et al. 2004; Glenberg 2008). Why does IM work so well? The initial PM procedure
conveys to the child what reading is all about, namely, using their experiences to construct
mental models that correspond to the text. The IM procedure allows children to take
advantage of this knowledge, as well as implicitly encouraging the child to use his or her well-
practiced skill of mapping heard words to experience used during oral
language
understanding.

Moved by Reading on computers

Whereas the Moved by Reading intervention could be educationally benecial, it is limited by
the necessity of creating stories that match toys or creating toys that match stories. A second
limitation for classroom use is the necessity of having many sets of toys, that is, a set of toys
for each individual or group of students. Given that many classrooms are becoming com-
puterized and that many schools have computer laboratories, both of these limitations might
be overcome by having a child, while reading, manipulate computer images using a mouse.
But, will this sort of computer manipulation be as successful as PM? There are reasons to
answer in the negative and the afrmative. On the negative side, manipulating computer
images may not be as engaging as manipulating toys. Also, the multisensory experience
associated with the toys (e.g., both visual and haptic information) may be important for
creating the sort of perceptual symbols needed for IM to be successful. On the positive side, to
the extent that success of the intervention depends on (a) mapping words to any sort of
meaningful representation and (b) encouraging children to map the syntactic relations to
actions, then manipulating images using a computer may be as successful as PM.

In the research reported next, we contrasted three conditions. In all of the conditions,
children read texts presented on a computer monitor and after reading pairs of texts they
took a short comprehension test. In the PM condition, after reading critical sentences,
children turned away from the monitor to manipulate physical toys. In the computer
manipulate (CM) condition, children manipulated images on the monitor using the mouse
(see Fig. 1ac). Finally, in the Re-read condition, children re-read critical sentences. In the
Re-read condition, a non-manipulable version of the images was available on the screen as
in a childs picture book.

On the rst day of the experiment, children read four texts. On the second day of the
experiment, 1 week later, children were instructed to engage in IM (or silent re-reading in
the Re-read condition). Then children read four more texts for which there was no
manipulation of images on the screen. The rst two of these texts were stories describing
events in the same, familiar scenario used on the rst day (e.g., farm scenario). The second
two stories came from an unfamiliar scenario (e.g., house scenario).

This design allowed us to answer several applied and theoretical questions. Will CM be
as effective as PM? Will CM be more effective than Re-read? Will CM lead to effective
use of IM on Day 2? Will benets of IM extend to unfamiliar scenarios? On the theoretical
side, do effective embodied representations require activity with real objects?

123

Improving early reading comprehension using embodied CAI

31

Fig. 1 a Screen shot before reading, Ben hooks the cart to the tractor; b screen shot midway through
manipulating for Ben hooks the cart to the tractor; c screen shot after successfully manipulating for Ben
hooks the cart to the tractor

123

32

Methods

Participants

A. M. Glenberg et al.

A total of 53 children in the rst- and second-grades were sampled from two sources. One
source was a research registry in which parents of children attending the Madison
Metropolitan School District could indicate their willingness to participate in research. The
second was an after school program in a suburb of Madison, WI. Children from the registry
participated in a laboratory room and children from the after school program participated at
their school. Parental consent was obtained for all children. Children were randomly
assigned to participate in the PM (n = 14), CM (n = 20), or Re-read (n = 19) conditions.
Random assignment was done separately for the two sources of participants to ensure no
systematic confounding of source and condition.

Materials

For each of two scenarios, we wrote six, eight-sentence stories. Each story included ve
critical sentences. In addition, for each story we wrote a 10-question yes/no comprehension
test. Five of the questions were directed at the critical sentences (e.g., Did Ben drive the
tractor to the pumpkins) and ve were directed at information taken from other parts of
the story as well as inferable temporal relations (e.g., Did Ben drive to the barn after he
put the pumpkins in the cart) and inferable spatial relations (e.g., At the end of the story
was the tractor at the barn).

Children were randomly assigned to start with one scenario (the Familiar scenario) or
the other. The children read four stories from the Familiar scenario on the rst day, the
remaining two stories from that scenario on the second day (1 week later), and then two
stories from the other, Unfamiliar, scenario. The use of the stories was counterbalanced as
follows. First, stories were paired. Then, a pair of stories occurred approximately equally
often as the rst pair on Day 1, the second pair on Day 1, and the rst pair on Day 2. Each
pair from the second scenario occurred approximately equally often as the second pair on
Day 2.

In addition, each scenario had an introduction that was used in all of the conditions. For
the introduction, a static picture of the story objects was presented, and the experimenter
pointed to and named all of the objects. There was also a ve-sentence practice text for
each scenario. This text was used on the rst day to give children practice reading from the
monitor, manipulating, and re-reading. Finally, a three-sentence practice text was created
for each scenario and used on the second day to introduce imagine manipulation and silent
re-reading. The instructions for imagined manipulation were to imagine interacting with
the images (e.g., imagine clicking on an image, dragging it with the mouse, etc.). For the
rst sentence in the practice text, the experimenter described what was to be imagined. For
the remaining sentences of the practice text only, the child described what he or she
imagined. If the child did not describe interacting with the images, the child was corrected.

Description of the computer software

The experiments were conducted using a JavaScript-powered Web application that runs in
a standard Web browser (e.g., Mozilla Firefox). No additional software needs to be
downloaded or installed on a local computer. The Web page displays the sentences in a box

123

Improving early reading comprehension using embodied CAI

33

on the left side of the screen, with a trafc light icon next to the critical sentences. The right
side of the screen displays a static background image for each scenario (e.g., a barn in the
farm scenario), and in the foreground, small images represent the key participants and
objects in the scenario. For these experiments, the images are high quality photographs of
the same toys used in our PM studies.

When the child reaches a critical sentence, he or she must click on the image of the
correct object to manipulate (this is akin to picking up the correct toy in a PM study).
Clicking anywhere else does nothing. For example, given the sentence Ben hooks the cart
to the tractor, the child must click on Ben, the farmer. Upon doing so, the image becomes
stuck to the mouse cursor, and the child may release the mouse button. (Young computer
users may not have mastered the concept of dragging yet.) With an image locked onto the
mouse cursor, the child must move the mouse to click on the next relevant object or
location (in this case, the cart). Now, moving the mouse will move the farmer and the cart
together. A hot zone is dened around the relevant location, providing some exibility in
where the next click must occur. After the last necessary click for the sentence, the selected
images become unlocked from the mouse and remain in their new locations, although there
may be a slight adjustment in the image to depict important details (e.g., the cart appro-
priately attached to the tractor). In short, the software is designed to allow only correct
manipulations, while allowing some room for error in mouse clicking and moving
behavior. When all the required manipulations for a sentence are completed, a small
indicator appears in the corner of the screen as a sign to the experimenter that the child may
start reading the next sentence.

Procedure

On the rst day, children were introduced to the Familiar scenario. Following that, they
were instructed as to what a green light signiedmanipulate the toys for the children in
the PM condition, manipulate the computer images the for children in the CM condition,
and re-read for children in the Re-read condition. This instruction was followed by pre-
sentation of the ve-sentence practice text. Children then read two stories from the
Familiar scenario. The comprehension test for those two stories was given after reading the
second story so that there was a retention interval of several minutes between readings a
story and taking the test. The comprehension questions were read aloud by the researcher
and the child responded aloud. Neither the texts nor the pictures were available to the
children during the testing. Children then read two more stories from the Familiar scenario
and they were tested on those two. At the end of the rst day, the children selected a small
toy.

On the second day (1 week later), children were instructed in IM or silent re-reading
using the three-sentence practice text. This practice was followed by children reading two
texts from the Familiar scenario. The rst of these was presented along with a static picture
of the scenario, and the second was read without any picture. The children were then tested
on theses two texts. Children then received the introduction to the second, unfamiliar,
scenario along with a static picture. Children then read two texts from the Unfamiliar
scenario using either IM (for children in the PM and CM conditions) or silent re-reading.
The rst of these texts was presented along with a static picture and the second had no
picture. Because the manipulation of pictures on the second day had no statistically sig-
nicant effects, it will not be discussed further. Finally, children were tested on the last two
texts, given a second toy, and dismissed.

123

34

Results

A. M. Glenberg et al.

The means (and standard deviations) of most interest are presented in Table 1. From that
table, it appears that children in the CM group outperformed children in the other two
groups both on Day 1 and on Day 2 for the Familiar scenario, but not for the unfamiliar
scenario. Statistical comparisons conducted using a probability of a Type 1 error of 0.05
generally conrmed these impressions. These statistical analyses were conducted using an
ANOVA on the proportions correct using child as the unit of analysis. These proportions
were obtained by collapsing across all questions (10 per text) for texts in a given condition.
For example, the proportion correct for the rst day were obtained from the 40 questions
asked that day.

In the rst analysis, the data from the familiar and unfamiliar texts on Day 2 were
combined. There was an effect of Day, in that children did better on Day 1 than Day 2,
F(1,50) = 4.47. There are several likely, but relatively uninteresting, reasons for this
nding. First, Day 1 consisted of stories from one scenario, whereas Day 2 consisted of
stories from two scenarios, one of which was relatively unfamiliar. Second, on Day 1,
children used a reading strategy (PM, CM, or re-read aloud) that is likely to be more
effective than the Day 2 strategy (IM or re-read silently). Third, all of the Day 1 stories
were accompanied by manipulable or static pictures, but only half the Day 2 stories were
so accompanied.

More interesting is the main effect of condition, F(2, 50) = 3.59. Children in the CM
condition outperformed those in the Re-read condition (p = 0.01). The interaction of
Condition and Day was not signicant (p = 0.26), which implies that the CM condition
outperformed the Re-read condition both on Day 1 when children manipulated images or
re-read aloud, and on Day 2 when children imagined the manipulation of images or re-read
silently.

We performed a similar analysis using the Day 1 data and the Day 2 data from the
Familiar scenario only. In this analysis, there was a signicant effect of Day, F(1,
50) = 8.72, and condition, F(2, 50) = 3.97. The children in the CM condition outper-
formed the children in the Re-read condition (p = 0.01) and the PM condition (p = 0.05).
Again, there was little evidence for an interaction between Day and Condition, F \ 1.
Finally, we analyzed the data from Day 1 and the data from the Unfamiliar scenario on Day
2. There were no signicant effects in this analysis.

It should be noted that the data presented in Table 1 are the proportions correct of all
test questions, that is, those questions targeting the action sentences and those drawn from
other parts of the texts. When the questions targeting the action sentences are considered
alone, the pattern of means and pattern of statistical signicance are the same as reported
above. However, because performance was so high (e.g., on Day 1, the proportions correct
were 0.89, 0.95, and 0.87, and on Day 2, familiar scenario the proportions were 0.80, 0.89,

Table 1 Means (and standard deviations) on the comprehension test

Condition on Day 1

Day 1

Day 2 familiar

Day 2 unfamiliar

Physical manipulate (PM)

Computer manipulate (CM)

Re-read aloud

0.84 (0.11)

0.76 (0.16)

0.89 (0.06)

0.84 (0.10)

0.80 (0.10)

0.78 (0.11)

Effect size (d) for CM compared to re-read

1.16

0.56

0.82 (0.16)

0.85 (0.11)

0.82 (0.12)

NS

Note: NS not statistically signicant

123

Improving early reading comprehension using embodied CAI

35

and 0.84, for the PM, CM, and Re-read conditions, respectfully), those data may reect in
part ceiling effects. Consequently, we decided to focus on analyses of all of the questions.
It is of interest that the positive effects of Moved by Reading extend beyond the specic
sentences for which children engaged in PM or IM, although the effect is expected: PM and
IM help the child to build a mental model of the characters and their actions, and this
mental model will be useful in understanding all parts of the story. The nding that the
benets of Moved by Reading extend to other parts of the text also help to bolster the claim
that the intervention enhances not just memory but also comprehension of the text. That is,
applying Moved by Reading helps the children to answer inference questions, not just
better remember parts of texts corresponding to manipulated sentences.

Discussion

Organization

This discussion will be organized around the questions noted at the end of the introductory
section, namely, Will CM be as effective as PM? Will CM be more effective than Re-read?
Will CM lead to effective use of IM on Day 2? Will benets of IM extend to unfamiliar
scenarios? On the theoretical side, do effective embodied representations require activity
with real objects? Finally, we will address the educational implications of this research,
and its relation to work on gaming.

Is CM as effective as PM?

One surprise in the results was that children in the CM condition performed at least as well,
or even better, than children in the PM condition (p = 0.09 considering all of the data, and
p = 0.05 considering data from Day 1 and the Familiar scenario from Day 2). This effect
may reect disruption in the PM condition caused by having to turn away from the
computer screen in order to manipulate the toys. However, it might also be a real effect,
and not simply disruption. For example, manipulating images on the screen may help focus
the child on how to realize the syntactic relations when the need to grasp and manipulate
the objects is obviated. Or, manipulating images on the screen may discourage play so that
the child focuses more on the text.1 This last reason is reminiscent of research on ma-
nipulatives in mathematics contexts. Namely, to the extent that the child plays with the
manipulative in contrast to using it as a symbol for a mathematical idea, the manipulative
interferes with performance (e.g., McNeil et al. 2009).

Is CM more effective than Re-read? Will CM lead to effective use of IM on Day 2?

Children in the CM condition outperformed those in the Re-read condition, and the effect
sizes were large enough to be educationally important. On Day 1, the effect size (Cohens
d) of CM compared to re-read was 1.16, where 0.8 is considered a large effect. On Day 2
(IM compared to re-read), for the Familiar scenario, d = 0.56 (a medium size effect).
There are several reasons why 0.56 may be an underestimate. First, there were only two
texts from the Familiar scenario on Day 2, so that there was more error in the measurement

1 Several children did appear to play with the images in the CM condition. For example, a child might
simulate with the mouse a chicken hopping, or hum a ditty while moving an image.

123

36

A. M. Glenberg et al.

of Day 2 performance compared to Day 1 performance. Second, because of the long, 1-
week, retention interval, it is likely that some children forgot some of the scenario
information that might have assisted in their imagined manipulation.

It might also be the case that more extensive practice on PM (or CM) might lead to
much larger effects of IM compared to re-reading. For example, in Glenberg, Brown, &
Levin (2009a) (a) classrooms were randomly assigned to conditions, (b) the classroom
teachers delivered the intervention using researcher-prepared lesson plans, (c) the texts
were taken from the childrens literature rather than written by the researchers, and (d)
third-grade children practiced PM seven times distributed over seven weeks, and they
practiced IM 13 times distributed across eight weeks (overlapping with the PM practice).
For these children, the effect size of IM (compared to children in a control group who read
the same texts distributed in the same way) ranged from 1.1 to over 2.

Will benets of IM extend to unfamiliar scenarios?

For the current data, the answer is clearly no. This answer is in contrast to both Glenberg
et al. (2007a, b) and results from the just-described pilot experiment. In both of those
projects, children trained on PM for one scenario showed benets of IM when reading texts
from both familiar and unfamiliar scenarios. There were two notable differences between
those projects and the current one, however. First, the children received more extensive
training in the previous work. Second, the children were older. Thus, although the benets
of IM were limited in the current research, there is reason to believe that IM will transfer to
unfamiliar scenarios with greater practice and/or older children.

Do effective embodied representations require activity with real objects?

The nding that CM resulted in performance at least as good as in the PM condition leads to a
negative answer. Because much of the embodied cognition literature has demonstrated
effects of real physicality, this nding was a surprise. In retrospect, however, there are good
reasons for it. First, language itself deals with categories and rough approximations. That is,
even a thorough description of an object will not include all the details of its physicality. Thus,
indexing a word to a rough approximate representation of the object may often serve com-
prehension well. Second, there was nothing in the texts that required (for comprehension)
more than a rough approximation to the real object. For example, nothing in the text depended
on information about weight of an object that might be difcult to obtain from an image. Thus,
the opportunity to embody with action the grammatical relations of who did what to whom
may have been sufcient to lead to benets of CM and its transfer to IM.

Finally, this nding is consistent with Triona and Klahr (2003). In that research, chil-
dren learned the scientic, control of variables strategy (CVS), namely that in an experi-
ment one must manipulate one variable and control all others. Triona and Klahr
demonstrated that children learned equally well whether they manipulated a physical
apparatus to construct experiments or whether they manipulated virtual objects on a
computer screen.

Educational implications

As noted above, pilot work demonstrates effectiveness of the Moved by Reading inter-
vention under classroom conditions. However, the need to use physical manipulatives
limits the practical implementation of the procedure. The current work demonstrates how

123

Improving early reading comprehension using embodied CAI

37

that limitation can be overcome using computers, although we must still demonstrate
effectiveness of CM under classroom conditions.

It is of interest to note the relation between CM and work on the educational benets of
gaming (e.g., Barab et al. 2007; Gee 2003, 2008). Whereas no list of the characteristics of
successful educational games is accepted by everyone, the following characteristics are
likely to be included in most lists. Good computer games:


are experiential and situated as opposed to a routinized and decontextualized (Wideman
et al. 2007)
relatedly, good games provide skills that are best learned as strategies for carrying out
meaningful functions (Gee 2007, p. 41)
successful games motivate by rewards or opportunities for success





Moved by Reading overlaps with these characteristics. Casual observation suggests that
children are more enthusiastic readers in the PM and CM conditions [see footnote (1)] than
in the Re-read condition. (Work underway is examining motivation more objectively.)
Also, the manipulation after each action sentence provides an opportunity for success.

Whereas enhancing motivation may well account for some of the benets we observed,
we think that the real benet reects another similarity with games. That is, games help
learners to situate their learning, and thereby to ground in that situation the formalisms that
they are learning (Barab et al. 2007). Thus, in both Moved by Reading and well-designed
games, it is likely that the real benets for learning and comprehending come when the
learner is able to break out of Harnads (1990) symbol merry-go-round by grounding the
symbols (words) in current experience, whether that experience is literally physical or the
creation of mental models that embody and represent physical experience.

One might ask whether the benets of Moved by Reading demonstrated here are tem-
porary in the sense that as children become more skilled readers they do not need explicit
practice in grounding. Also, is Moved by Reading benecial for only the most concrete
texts? Surely, most older readers will not need explicit instruction in grounding for the sort
of simple texts used here (although that might not be true when reading in a non-native
language). However, we believe that, if anything, the problem becomes more severe as
children are asked to read and comprehend texts, such as science texts, that do not address
common experiences. That is, it is the inability to ground technical terms in their expe-
riences that, in part, makes science texts daunting.

A recently completed experiment (Richmond et al. 2009) demonstrated the benets of
giving students the opportunity to ground written texts while learning the CVS principle
studied by Klahr (e.g., Triona and Klahr 2003). In Richmond et al. (2009) fourth grade
students heard a presentation about CVS and then they were given the opportunity to apply
it. In one condition, children applied CVS by following written instructions for how to set
up experiments in a particular domain (e.g., variables that control how far a ball rolls). That
is, the children literally manipulated the apparatus by following explicit, written instruc-
tions. In another condition, children applied CVS by manipulating the same apparatus, but
this time the explicit instructions were read to the children. Thus, the two conditions were
identical in regard to the symbolic information, but only the rst group had practice in
grounding written material in their actions.

In a transfer task, all children were asked to apply the CVS principle in a new domain
(e.g., variables that control how far a spring will stretch). In this transfer task, all children
literally manipulated the apparatus to set up experiments by reading texts that outlined
(rather than fully describing) the experiments. The dependent variables were (a) how well
the child was able to follow the instructions by designing an unconfounded experiment,

123

38

A. M. Glenberg et al.

and (b) how well the child justied the design of the experiment. The major results from
this transfer task were that children who had previously read the texts outperformed the
children who had previously listened to the texts on both measures.

The Richmond et al. data demonstrate the power of Moved by Reading for four edu-
cationally relevant problems. First, manipulation is important for readers who are older
than the participants used in the current experiments. Second, manipulation is important for
when children (and, most likely adults) need to learn from reading rather than learning to
read. Third, manipulation is important for learning how to apply an abstract principle.
Finally, manipulation appears to facilitate transfer. Thus, much as with well-designed
educational games, Moved by Reading can help to situate abstract formalisms and that
facilitates acquisition and transfer of the formalism.

Acknowledgments This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under
Grants No. BCS 0744105 to Arthur Glenberg and IIS-0711887 to Xiaojin Zhu. Any opinions, ndings, and
conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily
reect the views of the National Science Foundation. We thank Lauren Hazen and Sally Miles for their
invaluable help in data collection, and Mina C. Johnson-Glenberg for inspiration that computer images can
indeed be used as manipulatives.

