Abstract. I consider the puzzles arising from four interrelated problems involving anthropic
reasoning, and in particular the Self-Sampling Assumption (SSA)  that one should reason
as if one were randomly chosen from the set of all observers in a suitable reference class. The
problem of Freak Observers might appear to force acceptance of SSA if any empirical evidence
is to be credited. The Sleeping Beauty problem arguably shows that one should also accept
the Self-Indication Assumption (SIA)  that one should take ones own existence as evidence
that the number of observers is more likely to be large than small. But this assumption produces
apparently absurd results in the Presumptuous Philosopher problem. Without SIA, however,
a denitive refutation of the counterintuitive Doomsday Argument seems dicult. I show that
these problems are satisfyingly resolved by applying the principle that one should always con-
dition on all evidence  not just on the fact that you are an intelligent observer, or that you
are human, but on the fact that you are a human with a specic set of memories. This Full
Non-indexical Conditioning (FNC) approach usually produces the same results as assuming
both SSA and SIA, with a suciently broad reference class, while avoiding their ad hoc aspects.
I argue that the results of FNC are correct using the device of hypothetical companion ob-
servers, whose existence claries what principles of reasoning are valid. I conclude by discussing
how one can use FNC to infer how densely we should expect intelligent species to occur, and by
examining recent anthropic arguments in inationary and string theory cosmology.

1 Introduction

Accounting for selection eects is clearly necessary when drawing conclusions from empirical
data. A poll conducted by telephone, for example, will not tell us the opinions of people who
dont have telephones. This simple observation has been seen by some, beginning with Bran-
don Carter (1974), as having profound cosmological implications, expressed as the Anthropic
Principle  what we can expect to observe must be restricted by the conditions necessary
for our presence as observers. One typical cosmological application of the Anthropic Principle
is in explaining the observed values of physical constants by assuming that they take on all
possible values in a multiplicity of universes, but that we of course must observe values that are

1

compatible with the existence of life. A related use of the Anthropic Principle is to deny that a
cosmological theory in which life is common should be considered more probable (other things
being equal) than one in which life is rare, as long as the latter theory gives high probability to
the existence of at least one intelligent observer.

There is a large literature on the Anthropic Principle, much of it too confused to address.
A coherent probabilistic account of the issues involved has been presented by Nick Bostrom
(2002, 2005), whose views of the subject I consider worth critiquing. Ken Olums (2002, 2004)
views are also interesting, and are sometimes closer to my own. Leonard Susskind (2006) and
Leo Smolin (2006) have contrasting views on the cosmological implications of the Anthropic
Principle, which I discuss at the end of this paper.

1.1 Four puzzles and two assumptions

One formalization of the intuition regarding observer selection eects is what Bostrom calls the
Self-Sampling Assumption (SSA):

(SSA) One should reason as if one were a random sample from the set of all observers
in ones reference class. (Bostrom 2002, p. 57)

Bostrom regards this as a preliminary formulation; in particular, he later considers more ne-
grained observer moments. However, all forms of SSA require some specication of an ap-
propriate reference class (eg, all humans, or all intelligent observers), and hence are poorly
dened if no precise basis for specifying such a class is given.

Despite this diculty, something like SSA might appear to be essential in order to deal with

the Freak Observers problem:

How can vast-world cosmologies have any observational consequences at all? We
shall show that these cosmologies imply, or give very high probability to, the propo-
sition that every possible observation is in fact made. (Bostrom 2002, p. 52)

Bostrom argues that in a suciently large universe, brains in any possible state will be emitted
as Hawking radiation from black holes, or condense from gas clouds as a result of large thermal
uctuations. We need not consider such extreme possibilities in order to see a problem, however.
Scientic experiments commonly have some small probably of producing incorrect results for
more mundane reasons. In a large enough universe, it is likely that some observer has made a
misleading observation of any quantity of interest. So, for example, that some observer in the
universe has made observations that with high condence could be produced only if the cosmic
microwave background radiation is anisotropic is no reason at all to think that the background
radiation is actually anisotropic. If we are to draw any conclusions from observations we make,
we need to see them not just as observations that have been made, but as observations that have
been made by us. Bostrom argues that SSA together with the fact that most observations made
are not misleading then allows us to conclude that our observations are likely to be correct.

However,

if we accept SSA, we are led to the Doomsday Argument expounded by John
Leslie (1996), who attributes it to Carter. The Doomsday Argument says that your ordinary
estimate of the chance of early human extinction (based on factors such as your assessment of the
probability of an asteroid colliding with earth) should be increased to account for an observer
selection eect.
It is claimed that the circumstance of your being (roughly) the 60 billionth

2

human to ever exist is more likely if there will never be more than a few hundred billion humans
than if there will be hundreds of trillions of humans, as will be the case if humanity survives
and colonizes the galaxy. This argument implicitly assumes SSA. (If the reference class is all
intelligent observers, the argument requires that uncertainty in time of extinction be shared with
other intelligent species.)

Although Leslie (1996), Carter (2004), and some others accept the Doomsday Argument as
valid, I take it to be absurd, primarily because the answer it produces depends arbitrarily on
the choice of reference class. Bostrom (2002) argues that this choice is analogous to a choice of
prior in Bayesian inference, which many are untroubled by. However, a Bayesian prior reects
beliefs about the world. A choice of reference class has no connection to factual beliefs, but
instead reects an ethical judgement, if it reects anything. It is thus unreasonable for such a
choice to inuence our beliefs about facts of the world.

The challenge is therefore to explain exactly why the Doomsday Argument is invalid, without
also destroying our ability to draw conclusion from empirical data despite the possibility of freak
observers. Many refutations of the Doomsday Argument have been attempted, but as argued by
Bostrom (2002, Chapter 7), most of these refutations are themselves awed. In particular, it is
not enough to adduce plausible-sounding principles that if correct would defuse the Doomsday
Argument if these same principles produce unacceptable results in other contexts.

One way of avoiding the conclusion of the Doomsday Argument is to accept the Self-
Indication Assumption (SIA)  that we should take our own existence as evidence that the
number of observers in our reference class is more likely to be large than small. The eect of
SIA is to cancel the eect of SSA in the Doomsday Argument, leaving our beliefs about hu-
man extinction unchanged from whatever they were originally. I refer to this combination as
SSA+SIA, and to SSA with a denial of SIA as SSASIA. Bostrom (2002) argues that SIA can-
not be correct because of the Presumptuous Philosopher problem. Consider two cosmological
theories, A and B, of equal plausibility in light of ordinary evidence. Suppose theory A predicts
that there are about ten trillion intelligent species in the universe, whereas theory B predicts
that there are only about ten intelligent species. A presumptuous philosopher who accepts SIA
would decide that theory A was a trillion times more likely than theory B, and would continue to
believe theory A despite virtually any experimental evidence against it, since the chance that the
experiments apparently refuting A were fraudulently or incompetently performed, or produced
misleading results just by chance, is surely much greater than one in a trillion.

Denying SIA also seems as if it might lead to problems, however. The Sleeping Beauty
problem (Elga 2000) sets up a situation in which the ip of a coin determines whether an
observer experiences a situation once, if the coin lands Heads, or twice (the second time with no
memory of the rst), if the coin lands Tails. Logic analogous to accepting SSA+SIA leads one to
conclude that upon experiencing this situation, the observer should believe with probability 1/3
that the coin landed Heads, whereas SSASIA leads one to conclude that the observer should
assess the probability of Heads as being 1/2. Although some have argued that 1/2 is the correct
answer (Lewis 2001, Bostrom 2006), the arguments that 1/3 is the correct answer appear to
me to be conclusive. These include an argument based on betting considerations, and another
argument I detail below. One might therefore be reluctant to abandon SIA.

To summarize, accepting SSA+SIA produces answers regarding Freak Observers, Sleeping
Beauty, and the Doomsday Argument that I consider reasonable, but seems to produce unrea-

3

sonable results for the Presumptuous Philosopher problem. SSASIA also resolves the problem
of Freak Observers, and produces what might seem like reasonable results for the Presumptuous
Philosopher problem, but produces results I consider wrong regarding Sleeping Beauty and the
Doomsday Argument.

1.2 Resolving the puzzles

In this paper, I show that this dilemma can be resolved by abandoning both SSA and SIA.
Both are ad hoc devices with no convincing rationale, and both require a reference class of
observers, the selection of which is quite arbitrary. Instead, I advocate consistently applying the
general principle that one should condition on all the evidence available, including all the details
of ones memory, but without considering indexical information regarding ones place in the
universe (as opposed to what the universe contains). I call this approach Full Non-indexical
Conditioning (FNC).

The results using FNC are the same as those found using SSA+SIA, when it is clear how to
apply the latter method. As the problems I consider will illustrate, however, FNC is a more
general and more natural method of inference, and has a clearer justication.

To test whether the conclusions found by using FNC or by using alternative principles are
correct, I introduce the device of companion observers. For the Sleeping Beauty problem, this
device provides further evidence that the correct answer is obtained by FNC (and by SSA+SIA),
whereas the answer produced by applying SSASIA in the manner previously done is incorrect.
Consideration of companion observers also shows that SSASIA produces unacceptable results
when used with certain reference classes, including the narrow reference classes that have pre-
viously been used for the Sleeping Beauty problem.

When considering the Freak Observers and Presumptuous Philosopher problems, I advocate
restricting consideration to cosmological theories in which the universe may be very large, but
not so large that it is likely to contain multiple observers with exactly the same memories. The
problem of Freak Observers can then be resolved using FNC, without any need for SSA. I argue
that as a general methodological principle, one must be cautious of pushing thought experiments
to extremes, as this has produced spurious paradoxical results in other contexts. I do consider
the possibility of innite universes later, in connection with inationary cosmology.

I argue that there are actually two versions of the Presumptuous Philosopher problem, with
possibly dierent answers. When comparing theories diering in the density of observers, but not
in the size of the universe, consideration of companion observers provides good reason to doubt
the results found using SSASIA, whereas the results of applying SSA+SIA or FNC appear
correct. I argue that no clear conclusions can be drawn from the Presumptuous Philosopher
problem when the theories compared dier in the size of the universe. The Presumptuous
philosopher problem therefore fails to provide a reason to reject SSA+SIA or FNC.

1.3 Applying FNC to cosmology

After showing that FNC provides reasonable answers for each of the four problems described
above, I use FNC to estimate how densely we should expect intelligent observers to occur in
the galaxy. This discussion is not entirely a priori, but is based also on the observed lack of

4

extraterrestrials in our vicinity, both now, and as far as we can tell, in the past. The results I
obtain shed some light on the Fermi Paradox  there are reasons to think extraterrestrials
should be common in the universe, but if so, where are they? My conclusions imply some
pessimism regarding our future prospects, but this is of a milder degree than that produced by
the Doomsday Argument, and follows from empirical evidence, not anthropic reasoning.

I conclude by discussing the implications of FNC for anthropic arguments relating to ina-
tionary cosmology, which favours a universe or universes of innite extent, and to cosmologies
based on string theory, in which a multiplicity of universes populate a landscape of diering
physical laws.

2 Methodology

Before discussing the four problems of anthropic reasoning mentioned above, a general exami-
nation of the methodology to be employed seems desirable.

2.1 The nature of probabilities

First, since all these problems involve probabilistic answers, one may ask what these probabilities
mean. I interpret probabilities as justied subjective degrees of belief  subjective in that they
depend on the information (including prior information) available to the subject, and justied
in that they follow from correct principles of reasoning, rather than being capricious.

Probabilistic beliefs about scientic hypotheses (eg, whether or not earth-like planets are
common in the universe) are based partly on our prior assessments of plausibility. Often, such
hypotheses are guesses about the implications of some more fundamental theory, whose true
implications cannot be computed exactly, but for which approximations and mathematical in-
tuition provide some guide. We modify these prior beliefs according to how successfully these
hypotheses account for observations (eg, of whether nearby stars have planets).

The probabilistic nature of most predictions may be due to at least four sources:

1) Inherent randomness in physical phenomena.

2) Ignorance about the initial conditions of physical phenomena.

3) Ignorance about our place in the universe.

4) Inability to fully deduce the consequences of a theory.

These possible sources of uncertainty are not mutually exclusive. At least (1), (2), and (4) are
common sources of uncertainty in ordinary scientic reasoning. Ones interpretation of quantum
mechanics determines whether random quantum phenomena are seen as examples of (1), in
the Copenhagen interpretation, or of (3), in the Many Worlds interpretation. Leaving aside
the technicalities of the interpretation of this particular theory, one might generally take the
ontological position that any apparently random choice is actually made in all possible ways, in
parallel universes, all of which are real (though perhaps with dierent weights, corresponding
to the probabilities of the choices), thereby converting physical randomness to ignorance about
which parallel universe we are in.

5

In trying to resolve the puzzles of anthropic reasoning addressed in the paper, it seems best to
not also attempt to resolve issues regarding the nature of probability in physical theories. I will
look for a solution based on fairly common sense notions, presuming that these will in essence
survive any nal resolution of issues such as the interpretation of quantum mechanics. In thought
experiments, I will follow convention by usually talking about choices that are determined by
a coin ip, whose randomness likely derives from source (2). The reader may, however, replace
this with uncertainty of another type, such as whether the 1,341,735th digit of  is even or odd,
assuming that this digit is not already known to the people involved.

2.2 Indexical information and reference classes

A central feature of anthropic reasoning is the use of indexical information that certain obser-
vations were not just made, but were made by you. Another expression of this concept is that
you should consider not just possible worlds, but possible centred worlds, in which your
location in the universe is specied (Lewis 1979).

Both SSA and SIA involve the indexical information that you are members of a certain
reference class. The conclusions that follow from these principles individually are sensitive to
the choice of this reference class. Interestingly, however, when both SSA and SIA are assumed,
this dependence disappears, as long as the reference class is broad enough to encompass all
observers who could possibly have observed what you have observed.

