Introduction

Understanding geographical variation in biological
patterns and the processes that give rise to them has
long been a central problem in ecology (e.g. Levin,
1992; Buckland & Elston, 1993; Lawton, 1996; Scott,
Heglund & Morrison, 2002). While early descriptive

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd

studies of such patterns were driven largely by
scientic curiosity, the growing recognition of our
urgent need to conserve both species and commu-
nities is now driving an increased demand for
detailed, predictive knowledge of relationships be-
tween environment and the distributions of biota (e.g.
Ferrier et al., 2002; Olden, 2003). During the last
decade, statistical modelling has become increasingly
popular for analysing such patterns (see review by
Guisan & Zimmerman, 2000), typically for relating the
abundance or occurrence of a species to some set of
environmental and/or geographic predictors. It is
now used for purposes ranging from the testing of
ecological hypotheses (e.g. Austin, 2002) or processes
(Leathwick & Austin, 2001)
to the prediction of
species distributions across geographically extensive
areas for conservation (e.g. Gregr & Trites, 2001; Elith
& Burgman, 2002) and/or resource management (e.g.
Borchers et al., 1997).

While statistical modelling has perhaps been
applied less in studies of freshwater biota than in
terrestrial and marine settings, several recent analyses
have used articial neural nets (e.g. Ripley, 1996) to
relate the distributions of sh species to environment
(e.g. Lek et al., 1996; Brosse & Lek, 2000; Olden &
Jackson, 2001). In two such studies, neural nets were
used to simultaneously predict the distributions of
multiple species using a single analytical model
(Olden, 2003; Joy & Death, 2004). However, although
neural nets allow tting of non-linear relationships
between species and their predictors, their degree of
automation and black-box character allow minimal
control over model tting (Venables & Ripley, 1999),
and they are prone to becoming computationally
intractable if large numbers of predictors are used
(e.g. Moisen & Frescino, 2002; Friedman & Meulman,
2003). More limited use has been made in freshwater
studies of generalised additive models (GAM; Hastie
& Tibshirani, 1990), a technique that is widely applied
in both terrestrial (Guisan & Zimmerman, 2000) and
marine environments (e.g. Gregr & Trites, 2001). In
several European studies, GAM have been used to
analyse the distributions of freshwater macrophytes
(Lehmann, 1998; Schmieder & Lehmann, 2004),
benthic macro-invertebrates (Castella et al., 2001),
and sh (Brosse & Lek, 2000).

In this study, we use an alternative technique,
multivariate adaptive regression splines
(MARS;
Friedman, 1991), to analyse the environmental rela-

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

New Zealand diadromous sh distributions

2035

tionships of fteen diadromous sh species using
distributional data from New Zealand rivers and
streams. MARS is capable of tting complex, non-
linear relationships between species and predictors,
and in one of its implementations can be used to t a
model describing relationships between multiple
species and their environment (Hastie & Tibshirani,
1996). In a study of the comparative performance of
different modelling techniques using the same data as
in this study (J. Leathwick, J. Elith & T. Hastie,
unpublished data), a MARS multi-species analysis
gave comparable performance to models tted in-
dividually (i.e. species by species) using both MARS
and GAM. Such multi-species models may offer
advantages by their identication of a set of environ-
mental predictors that best recover overall variation in
species composition (Olden, 2003).

Diadromous sh comprise a highly distinctive
component of New Zealands indigenous freshwater
fauna (McDowall, 1990, 1993, 1999). The majority are
from the families Galaxiidae (ve species) and Eleo-
tridae (four species), with three from the Anguillidae,
two from the Retropinnidae, and one each from the
Geotriidae, Pinguipedidae, and Pleuronectidae. Most
of these species spend the majority of their lifespan in
fresh water, rather than in the sea. Most are widely
distributed in New Zealand, including on its offshore
islands, and a number also have a wider regional
distribution, including on islands in the Pacic, and in
Australian and South American fresh waters. Previ-
ous analyses of New Zealands freshwater sh fauna,
including their relationships with environment, can
be found, for example, in Minns (1990) and Jowett &
Richardson (1995, 1996, 2003). Joy & Death (2004)
present results of an analysis of sh: environment
relationships in one region of New Zealand using
neural nets, and Broad et al. (2001) describe a logistic
regression model for one diadromous species at a
regional scale.

Methods

Fish distribution data

Fish distribution data were drawn from the New
Zealand Freshwater Fish Database (McDowall &
Richardson, 1983, http://www.niwa.co.nz/services/
nzffd/), which now holds sh distribution records for
approximately 22 500 sites throughout New Zealand.

2036

J.R. Leathwick et al.

A subset of 9866 records was selected for this analysis
by including only sites sampled after January 1980,
and for which all species were identied (Fig. 1).
Repeated samples from the same site were treated as
independent records. We also excluded sites from
tidal rivers, lakes or other still waters, sites sampled
using methods appropriate for only some species or
life stages (e.g. whitebait nets, plankton nets, diving or
spotlighting), and sites upstream from signicant
obstructions such as dams, large culverts or impass-
able cascades or waterfalls that are likely to impede
passage by diadromous sh. Most sites selected for
analysis were sampled by electric shing (75%), but a
variety of other techniques were also used including
nets of various construction (17%), and traps (8%),
some of which were baited. Samples from smaller

Fig. 1 Sample sites from the New Zealand Freshwater Fish
Database used in the analysis (open circles). Only rivers with an
)1 are shown. Those shown in light
annual mean ow >10 m3 s
grey were excluded from the analysis because of known signi-
cant downstream obstructions to sh migration to/from the
sea.

rivers and streams greatly outnumber those from
larger rivers, in part reecting the reduced effective-
ness of techniques such as electric shing in the latter
(Minns, 1990). Although records of sh abundances
are available for many sites, all data were converted to
presence/absence form for this analysis because of
difculties in correcting for differing catch rates for
different capture methods and/or variation in the
area shed. This paper deals with these observations
as records of occurrence, although strictly speaking
they are records of capture. We recognise the potential
for confounding between detectability, capture meth-
od, and environmental relationships, but are generally
satised that
the main trends we model reect
environmental effects on occurrence. A further step
would be to include detectability in the models (e.g.
MacKenzie et al., 2002), but this is a complex under-
taking.

Data were extracted for 15 diadromous species
(Table 1) that occurred in the dataset with a capture
frequency of 0.5% or above. The anguillids and
Rhombosolea retiaria are catadromous, whereas Geotria
australis and some retropinnid stocks are anadromous.
The remaining species are amphidromous, meaning
that adults remain resident in freshwater, but larval
sh are carried out to sea where they spend a short
period before migrating back to freshwater to grow to
adulthood. The scope of freshwater habitat accessible

Table 1 Fish species included in the analysis, and their preval-
ence, i.e. the proportion of sample sites at which they were
recorded

Code

Species name

Authority

Prevalence

Angaus Anguilla australis
Angdie A. dieffenbachii
Galarg Galaxias argenteus
Galbre G. brevipinnis
Galfas
Galmac G. maculatus
Galpos G. postvectis
Gobcot Gobiomorphus

G. fasciatus

Richardson 1848
Gray 1842
Gmelin 1789
Gu nther 1866
Gray 1842
Jenyns 1842
Clarke 1899
McDowall 1975

0.233
0.577
0.034
0.099
0.137
0.118
0.025
0.183

cotidianus
Gobgob G. gobioides
Valenciennes 1837 0.012
Gobhub G. hubbsi
0.065
Stokell 1959
Gobhut G. huttoni
0.211
Ogilby 1894
Geoaus Geotria australis
0.031
Gray 1851
Chefos Cheimarrichthys fosteri Haast 1874
0.121
Rhoret
0.007
0.042
Retret

Rhombosolea retiaria
Retropinna retropinna Richardson 1848

Hutton 1873

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

to amphidromous species is therefore inuenced by
their ability to migrate upriver.

Environmental data

Our selection of environmental predictors for this
analysis reected our view that models are more
likely to be robust when predictor variables have
strong functional relevance to the physiological and
behavioural attributes of the species whose distribu-
tions are being analysed (Austin, 2002). Here, we
combined a conceptual model of environmental fac-
tors driving variation in freshwater ecosystems (Biggs
et al., 1990) with knowledge of the migratory beha-
viour of diadromous sh, to identify a set of predic-
tors that are likely to have strong functional links with
their distributions (Rowe, 1991). For example, there is
often a correlation between elevation and sh distri-
butions, but water temperatures and/or downstream
slopes or falls that hinder upstream passage are more
likely to be the functional variables underlying this
relationship, and were used in this study.

The predictors we used can be divided into factors
describing the character of the river segment within
which the sampling site was located, downstream
factors affecting the ability of diadromous sh to
migrate from the sea to that river segment, and

New Zealand diadromous sh distributions

2037

upstream/catchment-scale factors affecting environ-
mental conditions at the sampling site. As the mod-
elling methods used are potentially sensitive to
correlated variables, the nal set of candidate varia-
bles was restricted to those with pair-wise correlations
of <0.7, with two variables normalised (see below) to
reduce their correlation with other variables.

Because of the limited and sometimes inconsistent
nature of the environmental data collected at the time
of sh capture, all environmental predictors were
extracted from two broader scale descriptions of New
Zealands rivers and streams. The rst of these was a
controlling-factors classication of New Zealand riv-
ers and streams, the River Environments Classica-
tion (Snelder & Biggs, 2002), while the second
consisted of an expanded set of environmental
descriptors currently being prepared to enable the
development of a comprehensive multivariate classi-
cation of New Zealands
rivers and streams
(T. Snelder, NIWA, New Zealand, pers. comm.).
Using location data recorded at the time of sampling,
all sites were linked to the river-segment in which
sampling occurred, using a Geographic Information
System (GIS)-based spatial database containing all the
required environmental variables, and from which the
relevant data were subsequently extracted. River
segments consisted of a section of a river or stream

Table 2 Environmental predictors used to analyse sh occurrence

Variable

Segment scale predictors

SegJanT  summer air temperature (C)
SegTSeas  winter air temperature (C), normalised with respect to SegJanT  see text
SegFlow  segment ow (m3 sec
SegShade  riparian shade (proportion)
SegSlope  segment slope (), square-root transformed

)1), fourth root transformed

Downstream predictors

DSDist  distance to coast (km)
DSAveSlope  downstream average slope ()
DSMaxSlope  maximum downstream slope ()

Upstream/catchment scale predictors

USAvgTNorm  average temperature (C) normalised with respect to SegJanT
USRainDays  days/month with rain greater than 25 mm
USSlope  average slope in the upstream catchment ()
USIndigForest  area with indigenous forest (proportion)
USPhos  average phosphorus concentration of underlying rocks, 1  very low to 5  very high
USCalc  average calcium concentration of underlying rocks, 1  very low to 4  very high
USHard  average hardness of underlying rocks, 1  very low to 5  very high
USPeat  area of peat (proportion)
USLake  area of lake (proportion)

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

Mean (range)

16.6 (9.5 to 19.8)
0.75, ()2.6 to 4.1)
0.82 (0.1 to 5.0)
0.44 (0 to 0.8)
2.2 (0 to 5.6)

51.5 (0.03 to 329.5)
0.27 (0 to 14.5)
17.6 (0 to 56.5)

)0.027 ()6.2 to 2.2)
1.29 (0.21 to 3.30)
13.9 (0 to 41.0)
0.334 (0 to 1)
2.35 (1 to 5)
1.46 (1 to 4)
3.05 (1 to 5)
0.007 (0 to 1)
0.002 (0 to 1)

2038

J.R. Leathwick et al.

of variable length extending upstream from any river
junction to either the next upstream junction, or to a
point where the stream was no longer recognisable at
a mapping scale of 1 : 50 000. Segments averaged
approximately 740 m in length, with a range from 30
to 15.4 km.

Segment-scale predictors

Predictors relevant to the river segment in which
sampling occurred (Table 2) describe the average
January (mid-summer) air temperature (SegJanT),
seasonal variation in air temperature (SegTSeas), the
stream ow (SegFlow), the degree of riparian shading
(SegShade), and the segment slope or gradient (Seg-
Slope). Although we explored the estimation of
average water temperatures for each segment, we
had insufcient data to develop fully and verify such
an approach. We therefore used estimates of air
temperature in both summer and winter, acknowled-
ging that while shaded rivers and streams are likely to
remain substantially in equilibrium with air temper-
atures, more open waters are likely to have higher
temperatures because of heating by solar radiation,
particularly in summer (Rutherford et al., 1997). Both
sets of temperature estimates were derived from thin-
plate splines tted to meteorological station data
(Leathwick & Stephens, 1998). Because the summer
and winter temperatures were so highly correlated,
the winter estimates were normalised to create a
seasonality index, i.e.





SegTSeas  W  W
rw

 S  S
rs

 rw

where W is the winter temperature associated with a
particular segment, W is the average winter tempera-
ture across all segments, rw is the standard deviation
of the winter temperature estimates, S is the summer
temperature, and so on. Values indicate the deviation
of winter temperatures (C) from the value expected
given the summer temperature, i.e. negative values
indicate strong seasonal variation and positive values
indicate more muted seasonal variation.

Estimates of mean ow (SegFlow) for each river
segment were derived by summing estimates of the
excess of average rainfall over average evaporation
for cells occurring in a 100 m resolution grid in the
upstream catchment. Because these values were
highly skewed (samples from small
rivers and

the

using

streams are much more common than those from
large rivers), values were subject to a fourth root
transformation, after which the values can be expec-
ted to be linearly related to variation in water
velocity (Jowett, 1998). The degree of riparian shade
for each segment (SegShade) was calculated by rst
overlaying a satellite image-based, digital description
of New Zealands land cover (Land Cover Database
 Ministry for the Environment, Wellington) over the
river network and calculating the relative propor-
tions of different vegetation classes (i.e. native forest,
exotic forest, scrub, etc.) occurring within 100 m
alongside each river segment. Shading was then
estimated for each stream segment based on its
average width (m), and the riparian vegetation cover
and its estimated height (m) as follows. The average
width of the stream or river channel in metres was
relationship width 
computed
7.8289  average annual ow0.4777 (I. Jowett, NIWA,
N.Z., pers. comm.), and the total riverbed width was
estimated as channel width/0.75 (Davies-Colley &
Quinn, 1998). As no nation-wide mapping of
vegetation canopy heights was available, we esti-
mated these from available descriptions of vegetation
structure and summer temperatures, with which
they are closely linked. The potential
canopy
height of most native vegetation was estimated from
the January air
temperature using the relation-
ship canopy height  )47.96 + (7.2987  JanTemp) )
(0.1635  JanTemp2), based on a regression tted to
vegetation prole data collated in Wardle (1991).
Predicted canopy heights, assuming mature veget-
ation, ranged from approximately 30 m on warm
northern,
lowland sites to 12 m at approximately
11 C (treeline). Exotic forest was allocated a canopy
height equal to half that of native forest, assuming an
approximately even mix of stand ages from recently
planted through to mature, and scrub was allocated
a canopy height of 0.3 times the expected mature
forest height. Canopy heights were xed at a
nominal height of 2 m for coastal dune and wetland
vegetation, and 1 m for pasture and tussock grass-
land. Following Davies-Colley & Rutherford, 2005,
shading under diffuse light conditions was then
estimated as cos2U, where U is the angle from the
river centre line to the top of the adjacent canopy. All
vegetation was assumed to have a density of 80% so
that shading values range from 0 (unshaded) to 0.8
in the most heavily shaded reaches. Segment slopes

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

(SegSlope) were computed from the difference in the
elevation at both ends of the segment, along with the
total
length, with the required values
extracted from the GIS database.

segment

Downstream predictors

Three predictors were used to describe variation in
factors that inuence the ability of diadromous sh
species to move to a particular river segment from the
sea. The distance to the coast (DSDist) was calculated
from the GIS database as the sum of the lengths of the
individual river segments located between the down-
stream end of a particular segment and the coast. The
average downstream slope (DSAveSlope) was then
calculated from the estimated distance to the coast
and the elevation at the downstream end of each river
segment. Finally, the maximum downstream slope
(DSMaxSlope) was calculated by intersecting all
downstream river segments with a 30 m resolution
grid describing slopes, and nding the maximum
intersected value. Values for this predictor were
generally much higher than for the average down-
stream slope, reecting the local occurrence of fea-
tures such as rapids or cascades.

Upstream/catchment-scale predictors

Upstream, catchment-scale predictors were computed
by combining the GIS database with various gridded
environmental data layers, and with all mean catch-
ment values calculated by weighting values for each
grid cell by the contribution of that cell to river ow.
Two variables were used to describe upstream cli-
matic conditions, i.e. the average mean annual tem-
perature (USAvgTNorm) and the average number of
days per month when rainfall exceeded 25 mm
(USRainDays). As the rst of
these was highly
correlated with the segment-scale January air tem-
perature, we normalised it with respect to January air
temperature (as described for SegTSeas above). Neg-
ative values indicate segments in which the upstream
catchment experiences colder conditions than expec-
ted given the summer temperature occurring in the
segment, and are typically rivers and streams with
montane headwaters. Positive values indicate seg-
ments in which the catchment experiences warmer
conditions than expected from the segment summer
temperature. Estimates for the catchment of
the

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

New Zealand diadromous sh distributions

2039

number of days per month on which rainfall exceeds
25 mm and the average upstream slope (USSlope)
provide an estimate of the likely hydrological noisi-
ness or variability in ow of a river segment (e.g.
Jowett & Duncan, 1990). Variation in the amount of
upstream indigenous forest (USIndigForest) is likely
to have a complex inuence on both ow and water
characteristics, with high peak ows more likely to be
buffered in forested catchments with a high capacity
for canopy interception and rainfall storage (e.g.
Blake, 1975). In forested catchments, water tempera-
tures are also likely to be lower because of the reduced
heating through solar radiation (Rutherford et al.,
1997), and woody debris is likely to provide more
in-stream cover.

The effect of catchment rock type on river charac-
teristics is also complex. Here, we use three variables
to describe variation in the physical and chemical
character of underlying rocks,
i.e. their concentra-
tions of phosphorus (USPhos) and calcium (USCalc),
and their induration or physical resistance to weath-
ering (USHard) (see Leathwick et al., 2003). Although
we are unaware of any studies that link phosphorus
availability and variation in sh assemblages in New
Zealand rivers and streams, terrestrial systems in
New Zealand are most nutrient-limited by the
availability of phosphorus, and phosphorus is an
important macro-nutrient for aquatic organisms (e.g.
Wetzel, 2001). The amount of calcium in catchment
rocks is likely to inuence both water chemistry

Fig. 2 Comparison of responses tted for Galaxias fasciatus (solid
line), Anguilla dieffenbachii (dotted line), and Galaxias brevipinnis
(dashed line) in relation to segment January air temperature
(SegJanT). Knots are tted at values of 15.2, 16.7 and 19.0.

2040

J.R. Leathwick et al.

(Close & Davies-Colley, 1990) and the composition of
biological communities (e.g. Wetzel, 2001). Variation
in the hardness of different rock substrates has
important effects on ow variability, reecting dif-
ferences in their water storage and transmissivity
(Jowett & Duncan, 1990). Along with rainfall and
tectonic activity, it also affects both the magnitude of
river sediment loads, and their particle size distribu-
tion (Hicks, Quinn & Trustrum, 2004), and this in
turn can affect sh abundance (Richardson & Jowett,
2002). Estimates of
the extent of a catchment
occupied by lakes (USLake) or peat (USPeat) indicate
the degree of buffering of river ows, while the
occurrence of peat also indicates the current and
historic distribution of wetlands that provides habitat
for particular species.

Model tting

MARS is a technique in which non-linear responses
between a species and an environmental predictor are
described by a series of linear segments of differing
slope (e.g. Fig. 2), each of which is tted using a basis
function (see Appendix, and Hastie, Tibshirani &
Friedman, 2001). Breaks between segments are de-
ned by a knot in a model that initially over-ts the
data, and which is then simplied using a back-
wards/forwards stepwise cross-validation procedure
to identify terms to be retained in the nal model. All
MARS models were tted in R (R Development Core
Team, 2004) using functions contained in the mda
library (Hastie & Tibshirani, 1996). As these functions
currently only allow models to be tted assuming
ordinary least squares, we analysed our presence/
absence data by tting an initial MARS model,
extracting its basis functions, and then tting a
generalised linear model (GLM; McCullagh & Nelder,
1989) that related species occurrence to these, assum-
ing a binomial error distribution. This latter step
insures that values of
the response variable are
constrained between 0 and 1  in all other respects
the model is essentially a MARS model. In addition,
we utilised an option in the mda implementation of
MARS that allows simultaneous analysis of multiple
species by identifying a common set of basis func-
tions, with knots (and therefore variables) selected
according to their improvement in predictive power
of the model, averaged across all species (Appendix).
Separate GLM models were then used to model the

occurrence of each species in relation to these basis
functions, and the tted regression coefcients were
extracted for subsequent prediction of species distri-
butions in a GIS (see below).

indicates the ability of a model

Model performance for each species was assessed
using the area under the receiver operating charac-
teristic curve (ROC; e.g. Fielding & Bell, 1997), a
statistic that
to
discriminate between sites where a species is present,
versus those where it is absent. A score of 0.5 indicates
that a model has no discriminatory ability, while a
score of 1 indicates that presences and absences are
perfectly discriminated. The area under the ROC
curve can be interpreted as indicating the probability
that, when a presence site and an absence site are
drawn at random from the population, the rst will
have a higher predicted probability than the second.
ROC areas were calculated using a bootstrap proce-
dure that evaluates the performance of a model when
predictions are made to omitted portions of the data
set (see Appendix and Efron & Tibshirani, 1993, 1997),
providing a robust method for assessing predictive
performance at new sites.

Summarising

the

environmental

relationships
indicated by these various models was complicated
by the uneven distribution of sample points in the
multidimensional space dened by the predictor
variables. This largely reects the complex patterns
of correlation between variables, such that many
combinations of environment do not occur in the
real world (e.g. large rivers at high elevation). In
this setting, consideration of the tted model func-
tions in isolation from the underlying data can lead
to erroneous conclusions being drawn about species:
environment relationships. Given the relatively com-
prehensive sampling by our database of both geo-
graphic and environmental
space, we therefore
based our summaries of the preferred environment
for each species on visual interpretation of the tted
probabilities of occurrence. These assessments were
then compared with probabilities predicted from
each species regression for the entire river network,
including river and stream segments not represen-
ted by sample points. The latter was accomplished
by exporting a tabular summary of
the MARS
models from R, which was then imported into a
proprietary GIS (ArcView, ESRI, CA, USA) where
an Avenue script was used to calculate tted
probabilities for each river segment.

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

Table 3 Summary of contributions of predictors to the MARS
regression models

Results

New Zealand diadromous sh distributions

2041

d-deviance

Rank

SegJanT
SegTSeas
SegFlow
SegShade
SegSlope
DSDist
DSAveSlope
DSMaxSlope
USAvgT
USRainDays
USSlope
USIndigForest
USPhos
USCalc
USHard
USPeat
USLake

133.7
24.9
68.0
25.2
NF
125.0
32.9
29.4
27.0
43.8
68.5
16.6
14.3
NF
NF
NF
11.3

1
10
4
9

2
6
7
8
5
3
11
12



13

Table entries indicate the mean change in residual deviance
when dropping that variable from nal models, averaged across
all species  NF indicates variables that were not included as
signicant terms by the MARS analysis.

Table 4 Deviance explained and discriminatory power of sta-
tistical models relating species presence/absence to environ-
ment for fteen species

Species

Deviance explained

ROC

Anguilla australis
Anguilla dieffenbachii
Galaxias argenteus
Galaxias brevipinnis
Galaxias fasciatus
Galaxias maculatus
Galaxias postvectis
Gobiomorphus cotidianus
Gobiomorphus gobioides
Gobiomorphus hubbsi
Gobiomorphus huttoni
Geotria australis
Cheimarrichthys fosteri
Rhombosolea retiaria
Retropinna retropinna
Average

2628.1 (24.6)
1626.7 (12.1)
696.8 (23.8)
1725.7 (27.0)
2707.2 (34.4)
1661.5 (23.2)
510.4 (22.2)
1634.5 (17.4)
412.7 (31.6)
1473.3 (31.2)
2869.9 (28.2)
380.8 (13.9)
1753.0 (24.0)
369.1 (42.8)
839.7 (24.4)
1419.3 (25.4)

0.825 (0.009)
0.712 (0.013)
0.856 (0.019)
0.856 (0.012)
0.886 (0.008)
0.835 (0.011)
0.847 (0.020)
0.782 (0.011)
0.907 (0.015)
0.888 (0.012)
0.847 (0.008)
0.772 (0.024)
0.836 (0.012)
0.943 (0.011)
0.858 (0.017)
0.843 (0.013)

The deviance explained indicates the reduction in deviance for
each species compared with a null model, with the percentage of
the total deviance explained shown in brackets. All regressions
were tted using 29 degrees of freedom. Model discrimination
was assessed using the area under the receiver operator char-
acteristic curve (ROC) estimated by bootstrap re-sampling.
Standard errors are shown in brackets.

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

including summer

Examination of the marginal changes in deviance
when dropping individual predictors from the var-
ious nal models (Table 3) indicated that a relatively
small set of predictors plays a dominant role in
explaining variation in the probability of occurrence
for most diadromous sh species. These included
correlates or drivers of key functional aspects of
stream character,
temperature
(SegJanT), distance from the sea (DSDist), stream size
(SegFlow), and catchment-scale drivers of variation in
water temperature and ow variability (i.e. USAvgT,
USSlope and USRainDays). The rst two of these
variables (SegJanT and DSDist) had nearly twice the
explanatory power of any of the other variables, and
four variables (SegSlope, USCalc, USHard and US-
Peat) were not selected by the nal model because of
their failure to improve signicantly its predictive
performance at a community level. ROC scores
computed using bootstrap re-sampling to simulate
model performance with independent data varied
between 0.712 and 0.943 (Table 4). Species of low
prevalence (e.g. R. retiaria, Gobiomorphus gobioides)
generally had higher ROC scores than species occur-
ring at a high proportion of sites, probably reecting
the greater ease with which the regression models for
species of restricted range correctly identied the
extensive environments from which they were absent.
Examination of probabilities tted for the individ-
ual species by the MARS analysis indicated that there
were marked differences among the environments
where they most frequently occurred. For example,
species varied widely in the distances that
they
penetrate upstream from the coast (Fig. 3a), with
species such as G. gobioides and R. retiaria predicted to
occur only in relatively coastal river segments. By
contrast, species such as Galaxias fasciatus, Retropinna
retropinna, Gobiomorphus cotidianus, Anguilla australis,
Galaxias brevipinnis, Anguilla dieffenbachii and Cheimar-
richthys fosteri, although occurring most frequently at
sites located within 50 km or less of the coast, also
penetrate inland for considerable distances. Moderate
levels of occurrence were predicted for these species
at sites 150 km inland or more. However, the degree
to which different species penetrate inland is also
inuenced by river slope, with both the average and
maximum downstream slope important for many

2042

J.R. Leathwick et al.

species. For example, species such as R. retiaria,
R. retropinna, Galaxias argenteus and G. maculatus
occurred most frequently in river and streams with
minimal gradients (Fig. 3b), with G. maculatus most
tolerant of higher stream gradients. By contrast, G.
fasciatus, G. brevipinnis, G. postvectis and Gobiomorphus
huttoni occurred most frequently in relatively high
gradient streams. Similar patterns were evident in
relation to maximum downstream slopes, with G.
brevipinnis and A. dieffenbachii the two species most
capable of passing major stream obstacles.

Strong sorting was also apparent in the distribu-
tions of species in relation to the summer temperature
gradient (Fig. 3c), with optima distributed over a
range of nearly 6 C. Although all fteen species were
predicted to occur with at least moderate frequency
(probabilities of occurrence >0.2) in rivers and streams
with warm summer temperatures (16 C or more),
species varied widely in the range of temperatures
over which they frequently occurred, with R. retro-
pinna occupying the narrowest range and G. huttoni
the widest. Similar sorting occurred in relation to
average temperatures in the upstream catchment
(Fig. 3d), with species such as G. argenteus, G. post-
vectis and A. australis most frequent in river segments
in which the contributing catchments had warmer
temperatures than expected, while species such as G.
brevipinnis, G. cotidianus, R. retiaria and C.
fosteri
occurred most frequently in river segments in which
the upstream catchments were typied by cool
climatic conditions.

Although sorting of tted values in relation to river
ow was a little more muted (Fig. 3e), there was a
marked contrast between species whose preferred
habitat is large rivers (Gobiomorphus hubbsi, R. retiaria
and C. fosteri), versus the remainder that have a strong
preference for small to moderate sized streams and
rivers. Note however, that some of these latter species
also occurred with moderate frequency in larger
rivers. Stream riparian shade is an important factor
for some species (Fig. 3f), more so for those that occur
in smaller streams than in large rivers, where stream-
bank vegetation is less able to provide substantial
shade. Although most species may occur in streams
with widely varying degrees of riparian shade, the
sh fauna were segregated into two groups; species
with a marked preference for shaded streams, and
those more frequent in streams with little riparian
shade.

The inuence of wider, catchment-scale drivers of
variability in river-ow on sh distribution is illus-
trated by variation in tted values in relation to the
average upstream catchment slope (Fig. 3g). Species
typical of catchments having a predominance of low
slopes,
i.e. mostly streams and smaller rivers in
lowland areas, include G. argenteus and A. australis,
while at the opposite extreme, species such as G.
brevipinnis, C. fosteri, G. hubbsi and G. huttoni occur
most
frequently in catchments having a sizeable
proportion of steeper slopes, usually in steep hill-
country or mountainous areas. G. brevipinnis occurred
at sites where upstream slopes were highest, and this
reects its mainly inland, high altitude distribution.
Similarly, species such R. retiaria, G. cotidianus, and A.
australis, although widespread, were most frequent in
river segments in which the contributing catchments
had a relatively low frequency of high rainfall days,
i.e. low ood environments that are susceptible to
summer drought (Fig. 3h), whereas G. argenteus, G.
brevipinnis and G. postvectis occurred most frequently
in environments where high rainfall days are a
regular occurrence and ows are more reliable
through the year.

Consideration of relationships between tted prob-
abilities and the predictors that make a lower contri-
bution to the explanation of deviance (variables
ranked 10 or lower in Table 3) also revealed some
interesting patterns. For example,
the majority of
species were most likely to occur in environments
with only moderate seasonal variation in temperature
(Table 5), with only two species, C.
fosteri and R.
retiaria, occurring most
frequently in rivers with
strong seasonal variation in temperature. Most species
are also more common in rivers that have minimal
lake buffering, with A. dieffenbachii and G. cotidianus
the only species to show a positive preference for
rivers with substantial
lake inuence. Only a few
species showed strong patterns of occurrence in
relation to either USIndigForest or USPhos with G.
brevipinnis and G. postvectis more likely in catchments
with extensive native forest cover and R. retiaria more
common in rivers with non-forested catchments.

Probabilities of occurrence calculated within Arc-
View from the MARS analysis and using environ-
mental data for the entire river network are shown for
G. brevipinnis and G. huttoni for part of the western
North Island (Fig. 4). Highest probabilities of occur-
rence for G. brevipinnis are predicted for small, inland

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

(a)

Distance to coast (km)

(b)

Average downstream slope ()

0

100

200

300

0

5

10

15

New Zealand diadromous sh distributions

2043

Rhoret

Galfas

Retret

Gobgob

Galmac

Gobhut

Gobcot

Galarg

Gobhub

Angaus

Galpos

Galbre

Angdie

Geoaus

Chefos

Rhoret

Galmac

Galarg

Retret

Geoaus

Chefos

Gobcot

Angaus

Gobgob

Angdie

Gobhub

Gobhut

Galpos

Galbre

Galfas

(c)

January air temperature (C)

(d)

10

12

14

16

18

20

Upstream average temperature (C)
2

2

0

6

4

Galbre

Galpos

Galarg

Geoaus

Angdie

Gobhub

Rhoret

Gobhut

Chefos

Gobcot

Retret

Galfas

Galmac

Angaus

Gobgob

Chefos

Rhoret

Gobcot

Galbre

Gobhub

Geoaus

Retret

Angdie

Galmac

Gobhut

Gobgob

Galfas

Angaus

Galpos

Galarg

Fig. 3 Distributions of species in relation to major environmental predictors (ah) as indicated by tted probabilities of occurrence
from the MARS community model. Values at which tted probabilities reach a maximum are shown for each environmental variable
by a diamond, and the range over which tted values exceed 0.2 are indicated by horizontal lines. Species are sorted by their indicated
optima. Codes for species consist of the rst three letters of the generic and specic names as listed in Table 1.
 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

2044

J.R. Leathwick et al.

(e)

River flow (4th root)

(f)

Riparian shade

0

2

4

6

0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

Galfas

Galarg

Angdie

Gobgob

Galbre

Gobhut

Galmac

Galpos

Angaus

Retret

Geoaus

Gobcot

Gobhub

Rhoret

Chefos

Rhoret

Geoaus

Chefos

Gobhub

Angaus

Gobcot

Galmac

Retret

Gobgob

Angdie

Gobhut

Galarg

Galpos

Galbre

Galfas

(g)

Upstream average slope  ()

(h) Upstream rain days >25 (mm  month1)

0

10

20

30

40

0

1

2

3

Galarg

Angaus

Galfas

Galmac

Rhoret

Gobgob

Retret

Gobcot

Galpos

Angdie

Gobhut

Geoaus

Chefos

Gobhub

Galbre

Rhoret

Gobcot

Angaus

Galfas

Galmac

Retret

Angdie

Gobgob

Geoaus

Gobhub

Gobhut

Chefos

Galarg

Galbre

Galpos

Fig. 3 (Continued)

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

Table 5 Species showing signicant variation in their tted probabilities in relation to less important environmental predictors

New Zealand diadromous sh distributions

2045

Variable

SegTSeas

USLake

USIndigForest
USPhos

Negative

Positive

Rhombosolea retiaria, Cheimarrichthys fosteri

Anguilla australis, Galaxias argenteus,
Galaxias brevipinnis, Galaxias fasciatus,
Galaxias maculatus, Galaxias postvectis,
Gobiomorphus gobioides, Gobiomorphus hubbsi,
Cheimarrichthys fosteri, Rhombosolea retiaria,
Retropinna retropinna
Rhombosolea retiaria
Galaxias argenteus, Gobiomorphus hubbsi,
Retropinna retropinna

Anguilla australis, Anguilla dieffenbachii, Galaxias argenteus,
Galaxias brevipinnis, Galaxias fasciatus, Galaxias maculatus,
Galaxias postvectis, Gobiomorphus cotidianus,
Gobiomorphus gobioides, Gobiomorphus hubbsi,
Gobiomorphus huttoni, Retropinna retropinna
Anguilla dieffenbachii, Gobiomorphus cotidianus

Galaxias brevipinnis, Galaxias postvectis
Rhombosolea retiaria

Species are listed whose tted values vary by 50% or more with progression along the environmental predictors, and are separated
into those showing negative versus positive responses.

streams at high elevation, and with moderate to high
downstream slopes. By contrast, G. huttoni is predic-
ted to occur most frequently in small to moderate
sized coastal streams and rivers, with higher proba-
bilities predicted for those with good riparian shade.
Finally, results of an analysis in which a factor
variable indicating the capture method was added to
each of
the MARS individual models (Table 6),
showed that there were marked differences for some
species in their probabilities of capture between
different sampling methods, with electric shing
generally the most effective technique for most spe-
cies. Differences were most signicant for the two eel
species, with addition of capture method providing a
substantial
in model discrimination,
particularly for A. dieffenbachii. Modest improvements
in model discrimination also occurred for G. australis
and C. fosteri.

improvement

Discussion

Results from this analysis highlight the insights to be
gained from the use of statistical modelling to relate
data describing species distributions to a functionally
relevant set of environmental predictors. In part the
results reect the comprehensive nature of the data
available, i.e. an extensive set of sh distributional
data collected using specied sampling procedures, as
well as a comprehensive set of environmental predic-
tors. At one level, results provide a robust description
of the distributions of species and their sorting in

 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Freshwater Biology, 50, 20342052

environmental space (as in Austin & Smith, 1989), this
information providing an important underpinning for
individual species management (e.g. Levin, 1992).
However, the availability of comprehensive environ-
mental data for the entire river network also enabled
the prediction of species occurrences throughout New
Zealand, including for many rivers and streams for
which no species sampling has been carried out. Such
information is critical
the
conservation value of rivers, providing both a frame-
work for the robust identication of representative
sites for protection (e.g. Scott et al., 1993; Pressey et al.,
2000), and a context for interpreting results from
ongoing monitoring (Oberdorff et al., 2001; Joy &
Death, 2004; Schmieder & Lehmann, 2004).

to the assessment of

In terms of

the ecology of

these species at a
collective level, the descriptions of species: environ-
ment relationships that emerge from this modelling
approach accord strongly with previously published
accounts of diadromous sh ecology at various scales
of study. For example, the importance of distance
from the coast and stream gradient as determinants of
the degree to which different diadromous species
penetrate inland has already been described nation-
ally by McDowall (1990, 1993, 1999 and demonstrated
numerically in several studies at national (e.g. Minns,
1990; Jowett & Richardson, 2003) and regional scales
(e.g. Hayes, Leathwick & Hanchet, 1989; Jowett et al.,
1998). Similarly, Jowett & Richardson (1995) describe
