we des lat dir all ( lda ) , a gen pro mod for col of dis dat suc as tex cor .
lda is a thr - lev hie bay mod , in whi eac ite of a col is mod as a nit mix ove an und set of top .
eac top is , in tur , mod as an inn mix ove an und set of top pro .
in the con of tex mod , the top pro pro an exp rep of a doc .
we pre efc app inf tec bas on var met and an em alg for emp bay par est .
we rep res in doc mod , tex cla , and col lte , com to a mix of uni mod and the pro lsi
in thi pap we con the pro of mod tex cor and oth col of dis dat .
the goa is to nd sho des of the mem of a col tha ena efc pro of lar col whi pre the ess sta rel tha are use for bas tas suc as cla , nov det , sum , and sim and rel
sig pro has bee mad on thi pro by res in the eld of inf - tio ret ( ir ) ( bae - yat and rib - net , 123 ) .
the bas met pro by ir res for tex cor met suc dep in mod int sea eng eac doc in the cor to a vec of rea num , eac of whi rep - sen rat of cou .
in the pop tf - idf sch ( sal and mcg , 123 ) , a bas voc of wor or ter is cho , and , for eac doc in the cor , a cou is for of the num of occ of eac wor .
aft sui nor , thi ter fre cou is com to an inv doc fre cou , whi mea the num of occ of a
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 dav m .
ble , and y .
ng and mic i .
jor .
ble , ng , and jor
wor in the ent cor ( gen on a log sca , and aga sui nor ) .
the end res is a ter - by - doc mat x who col con the tf - idf val for eac of the doc in the cor .
thu the tf - idf sch red doc of arb len to xed - len lis of
whi the tf - idf red has som app fea in its bas ide of set of wor tha are dis for doc in the col app als pro a rel - tiv sma amo of red in des len and rev lit in the way of int - or int - doc sta str .
to add the sho , ir res hav pro sev oth dim red tec , mos not lat sem ind ( lsi ) ( dee et al . , 123 ) .
lsi use a sin val dec of the x mat to ide a lin sub in the spa of tf - idf fea tha cap mos of the var in the col .
thi app can ach sig com in lar col .
fur , dee et al .
arg tha the der fea of lsi , whi are lin com of the ori tf - idf fea , can cap som asp of bas lin not suc as syn and pol .
to sub the cla reg lsi , and to stu its rel str and wea , it is use to dev a gen pro mod of tex cor and to stu the abi of lsi to rec asp of the gen mod fro dat ( pap et al . , 123 ) .
giv a gen mod of tex , how , it is not cle why one sho ado the lsi met can att to pro mor dir , tti the mod to dat usi max lik or bay met .
a sig ste for in thi reg was mad by hof ( 123 ) , who pre the pro lsi ( pls ) mod , als kno as the asp mod , as an alt to lsi .
the pls app , whi we des in det in sec 123 , mod eac wor in a doc as a sam fro a mix mod , whe the mix com are mul ran var tha can be vie as rep of top .
thu eac wor is gen fro a sin top , and dif wor in a doc may be gen fro dif top .
eac doc is rep as a lis of mix pro for the mix com and the red to a pro dis on a xed set of top .
thi dis is the red des ass wit
whi hof wor is a use ste tow pro mod of tex , it is inc in tha it pro no pro mod at the lev of doc .
in pls , eac doc is rep as a lis of num ( the mix pro for top ) , and the is no gen pro mod for the num .
thi lea to sev pro : ( 123 ) the num of par - ter in the mod gro lin wit the siz of the cor , whi lea to ser pro wit ove , and ( 123 ) it is not cle how to ass pro to a doc out of the tra set .
to see how to pro bey pls , let us con the fun pro ass und the cla of dim red met tha inc lsi and pls .
all of the met are bas on the bag - of - wor ass the ord of wor in a doc can be neg .
in the lan of pro the , thi is an ass of exc for the wor in a doc ( ald , 123 ) .
mor , alt les oft sta for , the met als ass tha doc are exc the spe ord of the doc in a cor can als be neg .
a cla rep the due to de fin ( 123 ) est tha any col of ex - cha ran var has a rep as a mix dis gen an inn mix .
thu , if we wis to con exc rep for doc and wor , we nee to con mix mod tha cap the exc of bot wor and doc .
lat dir all
thi lin of thi lea to the lat dir all ( lda ) mod tha we pre in the
it is imp to emp tha an ass of exc is not equ to an as - sum tha the ran var are ind and ide dis .
rat , exc - abi ess can be int as mea con ind and ide dis - tri , whe the con is wit res to an und lat par of a pro dis .
con , the joi dis of the ran var is sim and fac whi mar ove the lat par , the joi dis can be qui com .
thu , whi an ass of exc is cle a maj sim ass in the dom of tex mod , and its pri jus is tha it lea to met tha are com efc , the exc ass do not nec lea to met tha are res to sim fre cou or lin ope .
we aim to dem in the cur pap tha , by tak the de fin the ser , we can cap sig int - doc sta str via the mix dis .
it is als wor not tha the are a lar num of gen of the bas not of exc , inc var for of par exc , and tha rep the - rem are ava for the cas as wel ( dia , 123 ) .
thu , whi the wor tha we dis in the cur pap foc on sim bag - of - wor mod , whi lea to mix dis for sin wor ( uni ) , our met are als app to ric mod tha inv mix for lar str uni suc as n - gra or par .
the pap is org as fol .
in sec 123 we int bas not and ter .
the lda mod is pre in sec 123 and is com to rel lat var mod in sec 123
we dis inf and par est for lda in sec 123
an ill exa of tti lda to dat is pro in sec 123
emp res in tex mod , tex cla and col lte are pre in sec 123
fin , sec 123 pre our
not and ter
we use the lan of tex col thr the pap , ref to ent suc as wor , doc , and cor .
thi is use in tha it hel to gui int , par whe we int lat var whi aim to cap abs not suc as top .
it is imp to not , how , tha the lda mod is not nec tie to tex , and has app to oth pro inv col of dat , inc dat fro dom suc as col lte , con - bas ima ret and bio .
ind , in sec 123 , we pre exp res in the col lte dom .
for , we den the fol ter : ( cid : 123 ) a wor is the bas uni of dis dat , den to be an ite fro a voc ind by f12 , .
we rep wor usi uni - bas vec tha hav a sin com equ to one and all oth com equ to zer .
thu , usi sup to den com , the vth wor in the voc is rep by a v - vec w suc tha wv = 123 and wu = 123 for u 123 v .
( cid : 123 ) a doc is a seq of n wor den by w = ( w12 , w12 , .
, wn ) , whe wn is the nth wor in the seq .
( cid : 123 ) a cor is a col of m doc den by d = fw1 , w12 ,
ble , ng , and jor
we wis to nd a pro mod of a cor tha not onl ass hig pro to
mem of the cor , but als ass hig pro to oth sim doc .
lat dir all
lat dir all ( lda ) is a gen pro mod of a cor .
the bas ide is tha doc are rep as ran mix ove lat top , whe eac top is cha - ter by a dis ove wor . 123
lda ass the fol gen pro for eac doc w in a cor d : 123
cho n ( cid : 123 ) poi ( x ) .
cho q ( cid : 123 ) dir ( a ) .
for eac of the n wor wn :
( a ) cho a top zn ( cid : 123 ) mul ( q ) .
( b ) cho a wor wn fro p ( wnj zn , b ) , a mul pro con on the top
sev sim ass are mad in thi bas mod , som of whi we rem in sub - que sec .
fir , the dim k of the dir dis ( and thu the dim of the top var z ) is ass kno and xed .
sec , the wor pro are par - i j = p ( w j = 123 zi = 123 ) , whi for now we tre as a xed qua ize by a k ( cid : 123 ) v mat b whe b tha is to be est .
fin , the poi ass is not cri to any tha fol and mor rea doc len dis can be use as nee .
fur , not tha n is ind of all the oth dat gen var ( q and z ) .
it is thu an anc var and we wil gen ign its ran in the sub dev .
a k - dim dir ran var q can tak val in the ( k 123 ) - sim ( a k - vec lie in the ( k 123 ) - sim if q i = 123 ) , and has the fol pro den on thi
i ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ( cid : 123 )
is a k - vec wit com a
ja ) =
whe the par a i > 123 , and whe g ( x ) is the gam fun .
the dir is a con dis on the sim it is in the exp fam , has nit dim suf sta , and is con to the mul dis .
in sec 123 , the pro wil fac the dev of inf and par est alg for lda .
, a set of n top z , and
, the joi dis of a top mix q
giv the par a and b a set of n wor w is giv by :
, b ) = p ( q
p ( znj ) p ( wnj zn , b ) ,
we ref to the lat mul var in the lda mod as top , so as to exp tex - ori int , but we mak no epi cla reg the lat var bey the uti in rep pro dis on set of wor .
lat dir all
fig 123 : gra mod rep of lda .
the box are pla rep rep .
the out pla rep doc , whi the inn pla rep the rep cho of top and wor wit a doc .
whe p ( znj ) is sim q z , we obt the mar dis of a doc :
i for the uni i suc tha zi
int ove q and sum ove
p ( znj ) p ( wnj zn , b )
, b ) =
, b ) =
p ( q d ja )
fin , tak the pro of the mar pro of sin doc , we obt the pro - bil of a cor :
p ( zdn d ) p ( wdn zdn , b )
the lda mod is rep as a pro gra mod in fig 123
as the gur mak cle , the are thr lev to the lda rep .
the par a and b are cor - lev par , ass to be sam onc in the pro of gen a cor .
the var q d are doc - lev var , sam onc per doc .
fin , the var zdn and wdn are wor - lev var and are sam onc for eac wor in eac doc .
it is imp to dis lda fro a sim dir - mul clu mod .
a cla clu mod wou inv a two - lev mod in whi a dir is sam onc for a cor , a mul clu var is sel onc for eac doc in the cor , and a set of wor are sel for the doc con on the clu var .
as wit man clu mod , suc a mod res a doc to bei ass wit a sin top .
lda , on the oth han , inv thr lev , and not the top nod is sam rep wit the doc .
und thi mod , doc can be ass wit mul top .
str sim to tha sho in fig 123 are oft stu in bay sta mod , whe the are ref to as hie mod ( gel et al . , 123 ) , or mor pre as con - dit ind hie mod ( kas and ste , 123 ) .
suc mod are als oft ref to as par emp bay mod , a ter tha ref not onl to a par mod str , but als to the met use for est par in the mod ( mor , 123 ) .
in - dee , as we dis in sec 123 , we ado the emp bay app to est par suc as a and b in sim imp of lda , but we als con ful bay app
ble , ng , and jor
123 lda and exc a nit set of ran var fz1 , .
, zng is sai to be exc if the joi dis is inv to per
is a per of the int fro 123 to n :
p ( z12 , .
, zn ) = p ( zp ( 123 ) , .
, zp ( n ) ) .
an inn seq of ran var is inn exc if eve nit sub is
de fin rep the sta tha the joi dis of an inn exc seq of ran var is as if a ran par wer dra fro som dis and the the ran var in que wer ind and ide dis , con on
in lda , we ass tha wor are gen by top ( by xed con dis ) and tha tho top are inn exc wit a doc .
by de fin the , the pro - abi of a seq of wor and top mus the hav the for :
p ( znj ) p ( wnj zn )
is the ran par of a mul ove top .
we obt the lda dis on doc in eq .
( 123 ) by mar out the top var and end q wit a dir
123 a con mix of uni
the lda mod sho in fig 123 is som mor ela tha the two - lev mod oft stu in the cla hie bay lit .
by mar ove the hid top var z , how , we can und lda as a two - lev mod .
in par , let us for the wor dis p ( wjq , b ) :
p ( wjq , b ) = ( cid : 123 )
p ( wj z , b ) p ( zjq ) .
not tha thi is a ran qua sin it dep on q
we now den the fol gen pro for a doc w : 123
cho q ( cid : 123 ) dir ( a ) .
for eac of the n wor wn :
( a ) cho a wor wn fro p ( wnj , b ) .
thi pro den the mar dis of a doc as a con mix dis :
p ( wnj , b ) ja ) are the mix wei .
, b ) =
whe p ( wnj , b ) are the mix com and p ( q fig 123 ill thi int of lda .
it dep the dis on p ( wjq , b ) whi is ind fro a par ins of an lda mod .
not tha thi dis on the ( v 123 ) - sim is att wit onl k + kv par yet exh a ver int mul str .
lat dir all
fig 123 : an exa den on uni dis p ( wjq , b ) und lda for thr wor and fou top .
the tri emb in the x - y pla is the 123 - d sim rep all pos mul dis ove thr wor .
eac of the ver of the tri - gle cor to a det dis tha ass pro one to one of the wor the mid of an edg giv pro 123 to two of the wor and the cen of the tri is the uni dis ove all thr wor .
the fou poi mar wit an x are the loc of the mul dis p ( wj z ) for eac of the fou top , and the sur sho on top of the sim is an exa of a den ove the ( v 123 ) - sim ( mul dis of wor ) giv by lda .
rel wit oth lat var mod
in thi sec we com lda to sim lat var mod for tex uni mod , a mix of uni , and the pls mod .
fur , we pre a uni geo int - tio of the mod whi hig the key dif and sim .
123 uni mod
und the uni mod , the wor of eve doc are dra ind fro a sin
thi is ill in the gra mod in fig 123 .
ble , ng , and jor
( b ) mix of uni
( c ) pls / asp mod
fig 123 : gra mod rep of dif mod of dis dat .
123 mix of uni
if we aug the uni mod wit a dis ran top var z ( fig 123 ) , we obt a mix of uni mod ( nig et al . , 123 ) .
und thi mix mod , eac doc is gen - era by rst cho a top z and the gen n wor ind fro the con mul p ( wj z ) .
the pro of a doc is :
p ( w ) = ( cid : 123 )
whe est fro a cor , the wor dis can be vie as rep of top und the ass tha eac doc exh exa one top .
as the emp res in sec 123 ill , thi ass is oft too lim to eff mod a lar col of in con , the lda mod all doc to exh mul top to dif deg .
thi is ach at a cos of jus one add par : the are k 123 par ass wit p ( z ) in the mix of uni , ver the k par ass wit p ( q
ja ) in lda .
123 pro lat sem ind
pro lat sem ind ( pls ) is ano wid use doc mod ( hof , 123 ) .
the pls mod , ill in fig 123 , pos tha a doc lab d and a wor wn are
lat dir all
con ind giv an uno top z :
p ( d , wn ) = p ( d ) ( cid : 123 )
p ( wnj z ) p ( zj d ) .
the pls mod att to rel the sim ass mad in the mix of uni mod tha eac doc is gen fro onl one top .
in a sen , it doe cap the pos tha a doc may con mul top sin p ( zj d ) ser as the mix wei of the top for a par doc d .
how , it is imp to not tha d is a dum ind int the lis of doc in the tra set .
thu , d is a mul ran var wit as man pos val as the are tra doc and the mod lea the top mix p ( zj d ) onl for tho doc on whi it is tra .
for thi rea , pls is not a wel - den gen mod of doc the is no nat way to use it to ass pro to a pre uns doc .
a fur dif wit pls , whi als ste fro the use of a dis ind by tra - ing doc , is tha the num of par whi mus be est gro lin wit the num of tra doc .
the par for a k - top pls mod are k mul dis - but of siz v and m mix ove the k hid top .
thi giv kv + km par and the lin gro in m .
the lin gro in par sug tha the mod is pro to ove and , emp , ove is ind a ser pro ( see sec 123 ) .
in pra - tic , a tem heu is use to smo the par of the mod for acc pre - tiv per .
it has bee sho , how , tha ove can occ eve whe tem is use ( pop et al . , 123 ) .
lda ove bot of the pro by tre the top mix wei as a k - par hid ran var rat tha a lar set of ind par whi are exp lin to the tra set .
as des in sec 123 , lda is a wel - den gen mod and gen eas to new doc .
fur , the k + kv par in a k - top lda mod do not gro wit the siz of the tra cor .
we wil see in sec 123 tha lda doe not suf fro the sam ove iss as pls .
123 a geo int
a goo way of ill the dif bet lda and the oth lat top mod is by con the geo of the lat spa , and see how a doc is rep in tha geo und eac mod .
all fou of the mod des abo , mix of uni , pls , and lda ope in the spa of dis ove wor .
eac suc dis can be vie as a poi on the ( v 123 ) - sim , whi we cal the wor sim .
the uni mod nds a sin poi on the wor sim and pos tha all wor in the cor com fro the cor dis .
the lat var mod con k poi on the wor sim and for a sub - sim bas on tho poi , whi we cal the top sim .
not tha any poi on the top sim is als a poi on the wor sim .
the dif lat var mod use the top sim in dif way to gen a doc .
( cid : 123 ) the mix of uni mod pos tha for eac doc , one of the k poi on the wor sim ( tha is , one of the cor of the top sim ) is cho ran and all the wor of the doc are dra fro the dis cor to tha poi .
ble , ng , and jor
fig 123 : the top sim for thr top emb in the wor sim for thr wor .
the cor of the wor sim cor to the thr dis whe eac wor ( re - spe ) has pro one .
the thr poi of the top sim cor to thr dif dis ove wor .
the mix of uni pla eac doc at one of the cor of the top sim .
the pls mod ind an emp dis on the top sim den by x .
lda pla a smo dis on the top sim den by the con lin .
( cid : 123 ) the pls mod pos tha eac wor of a tra doc com fro a ran cho top .
the top are the dra fro a doc - spe dis ove top , i . e . , a poi on the top sim .
the is one suc dis for eac doc the set of tra doc thu den an emp dis on the top sim .
( cid : 123 ) lda pos tha eac wor of bot the obs and uns doc is gen by a ran cho top whi is dra fro a dis wit a ran cho par .
thi par is sam onc per doc fro a smo dis on the top sim .
the dif are hig in fig 123
inf and par est
we hav des the mot beh lda and ill its con adv ove oth lat top mod .
in thi sec , we tur our att to pro for inf and par est und lda .
lat dir all
fig 123 : ( lef ) gra mod rep of lda .
( rig ) gra mod rep
of the var dis use to app the pos in lda .
the key inf pro tha we nee to sol in ord to use lda is tha of com the pos dis of the hid var giv a doc :
, b ) = p ( q , z , wja
i g ( a
unf , thi dis is int to com in gen .
ind , to nor the dis - but we mar ove the hid var and wri eq .
( 123 ) in ter of the mod par :
, b ) =
a fun whi is int due to the cou bet q and b in the sum ove lat top ( dic , 123 ) .
dic sho tha thi fun is an exp und a par ext to the dir dis whi can be rep wit spe hyp fun .
it has bee use in a bay con for cen dis dat to rep the pos on q whi , in tha set , is a ran par ( dic et al . , 123 ) .
i j ) w j
alt the pos dis is int for exa inf , a wid var of app - mat inf alg can be con for lda , inc lap app , var app , and mar cha mon car ( jor , 123 ) .
in thi sec we des a sim con - bas var alg for inf in lda , and dis som of the alt in
123 var inf
the bas ide of con - bas var inf is to mak use of jen ine to ob - tai an adj low bou on the log lik ( jor et al . , 123 ) .
ess , one con a fam of low bou , ind by a set of var par .
the var par are cho by an opt pro tha att to nd the tig pos low bou .
a sim way to obt a tra fam of low bou is to con sim mod of the ori gra mod in whi som of the edg and nod are rem .
con in par the lda mod sho in fig 123 ( lef ) .
the pro cou bet q and b
ble , ng , and jor
ari due to the edg bet q , z , and w .
by dro the edg and the w nod , and end - ing the res sim gra mod wit fre var par , we obt a fam of dis on the lat var .
thi fam is cha by the fol var
q ( q , zjg , f ) = q ( q
whe the dir par g and the mul par ( f 123 , .
, f n ) are the fre var
hav spe a sim fam of pro dis , the nex ste is to set up an opt pro tha det the val of the var par g and f .
as we sho in app a , the des of ndi a tig low bou on the log lik tra dir int the fol opt pro :
( g ( cid : 123 ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ) = arg ( g , f )
d ( q ( q , zjg , f ) k p ( q , zjw , a
thu the opt val of the var par are fou by min the kul - lei ( kl ) div bet the var dis and the tru pos p ( q , zjw , a thi min can be ach via an ite xed - poi met .
in par , we sho in app a . 123 tha by com the der of the kl div and set the equ to zer , we obt the fol pai of upd equ :
i + ( cid : 123 ) n
as we sho in app a . 123 , the exp in the mul upd can be com as fol :
i ) jg ) = y
is the rst der of the log
fun whi is com via tay app -
tio ( abr and ste , 123 ) .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) hav an app int int .
the dir upd is a pos - rio dir giv exp obs tak und the var dis , e ( znj n ) .
the mul upd is aki to usi bay the , p ( znj wn ) ( cid : 123 ) p ( wnj zn ) p ( zn ) , whe p ( zn ) is app by the exp of the exp val of its log und the var dis -
it is imp to not tha the var dis is act a con dis , var as a fun of w .
thi occ bec the opt pro in eq .
( 123 ) is con for xed w , and thu yie opt par ( g ( cid : 123 ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ) tha are a fun of w .
we can wri the res var dis as q ( q , zjg ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) ) , whe we hav mad the dep on w exp .
thu the var dis can be vie as an app to the pos dis p ( q , zjw , a in the lan of tex , the opt par ( g ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) ) are doc - spe .
in par , we vie the dir par g ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) as pro a rep of a doc in the top sim .
lat dir all
ini f 123
ni : = 123 / k for all i and n i : = a i + n / k for all i
for n = 123 to n
for i = 123 to k g t+1 : = a + ( cid : 123 ) n
to sum to 123
fig 123 : a var inf alg for lda .
we sum the var inf pro in fig 123 , wit app sta poi for g and f n .
fro the pse it is cle tha eac ite of var inf for lda req o ( ( n + 123 ) k ) ope .
emp , we nd tha the num of ite req for a sin doc is on the ord of the num of wor in the doc .
thi yie a tot num of ope rou on the ord of n12 .
123 par est
in thi sec we pre an emp bay met for par est in the lda mod ( see sec 123 for a ful bay app ) .
in par , giv a cor of doc d = fw1 , w12 , .
, wmg , we wis to nd par a tha max the ( mar ) log lik of the dat :
, b ) =
log p ( wd ja
as we hav des abo , the qua p ( wja
, b ) can be com tra .
how , var inf pro us wit a tra low bou on the log lik , a bou whi we can max wit res to a and b .
we can thu nd app emp bay est for the lda mod via an alt var em pro tha max a low bou wit res to the var par g and f , and the , for xed val of the var par , max the low bou wit res to the mod par a and b
we pro a det der of the var em alg for lda in app a . 123
the der yie the fol ite alg :
( e - ste ) for eac doc , nd the opt val of the var par fg ( cid : 123 )
d 123 dg .
thi is don as des in the pre sec .
( m - ste ) max the res low bou on the log lik wit res to the mod par a and b .
thi cor to ndi max lik est wit exp suf sta for eac doc und the app pos whi is com in
ble , ng , and jor
fig 123 : gra mod rep of the smo lda mod .
the two ste are rep unt the low bou on the log lik con .
in app a . 123 , we sho tha the m - ste upd for the con mul par b
can be wri out ana :
i j ( cid : 123 )
we fur sho tha the m - ste upd for dir par a efc new - rap met in whi the hes is inv in lin tim .
can be imp usi an
the lar voc siz tha is cha of man doc cor cre ser pro of spa .
a new doc is ver lik to con wor tha did not app in any of the doc in a tra cor .
max lik est of the mul par ass zer pro to suc wor , and thu zer pro to new doc .
the sta app to cop wit thi pro is to smo the mul par , ass pos pro to all voc ite whe or not the are obs in the tra set ( jel , 123 ) .
lap smo is com use thi ess yie the mea of the pos dis und a uni dir pri on the mul par .
unf , in the mix mod set , sim lap smo is no lon jus as a max a pos met ( alt it is oft imp in pra cf .
nig et al . , 123 ) .
in fac , by pla a dir pri on the mul par we obt an int pos in the mix mod set , for muc the sam rea tha one obt an int pos in the bas lda mod .
our pro sol to thi pro is to sim app var inf met to the ext mod tha inc dir smo on the mul par .
in the lda set , we obt the ext gra mod sho in fig 123
we tre b as a k ( cid : 123 ) v ran mat ( one row for eac mix com ) , whe we ass tha eac row is ind dra fro an exc dir dis . 123 we now ext our inf - enc pro to tre the b i as ran var tha are end wit a pos dis , 123
an exc dir is sim a dir dis wit a sin sca par h
the den is the sam
as a dir ( eq .
123 ) whe a
for eac com .
lat dir all
con on the dat .
thu we mov bey the emp bay pro of sec 123 and con a ful bay app to lda .
we con a var app to bay inf tha pla a sep dis on
the ran var b
, and z ( att , 123 ) : q ( b 123 : k , z12 : m , q 123 : m jl , f , g ) =
qd ( q d , zd jf d , g d ) ,
whe qd ( q , zjf , g ) is the var dis den for lda in eq .
as is eas ver , the res var inf pro aga yie eqs .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) as the upd equ for the var par f and g , res , as wel as an add upd for the new var par l :
i j = h +
ite the equ to con yie an app pos dis on b
, and z .
we are now lef wit the hyp h on the exc dir , as wel as the hy - fro bef .
our app to set the hyp is aga ( app ) emp bay use var em to nd max lik est of the par bas on the mar lik .
the pro are des in app a . 123
in thi sec , we pro an ill exa of the use of an lda mod on rea dat .
our dat are 123 , 123 doc fro a sub of the tre ap cor ( har , 123 ) .
aft rem a sta lis of sto wor , we use the em alg des in sec 123 to nd the dir and con mul par for a 123 - top lda mod .
the top wor fro som of the res mul dis p ( wj z ) are ill in fig 123 ( top ) .
as we hav hop , the dis see to cap som of the und top in the cor ( and we hav nam the acc to the top ) .
as we emp in sec 123 , one of the adv of lda ove rel lat var mod - els is tha it pro wel - den inf pro for pre uns doc .
ind , we can ill how lda wor by per inf on a hel - out doc and exa the res var pos par .
fig 123 ( bot ) is a doc fro the tre ap cor whi was not use for par est .
usi the alg in sec 123 , we com the var pos dir par g for the art and var pos mul par f n for eac wor in the
rec tha the ith pos dir par g
i is app the ith pri dir pa - i plu the exp num of wor whi wer gen by the ith top ( see eq .
the , the pri dir par sub fro the pos dir par ind the exp num of wor whi wer all to eac top for a par doc .
for the exa art in fig 123 ( bot ) , mos of the g i .
fou top , how , are i ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) .
loo at the cor dis ove sig lar ( by thi , we mea g wor ide the top whi mix to for thi doc ( fig 123 , top ) .
i are clo to a
ble , ng , and jor
fur ins com fro exa the f n par .
the dis app p ( znj ) and ten to pea tow one of the k pos top val .
in the art tex in fig 123 , the wor are col cod acc to the val ( i . e . , the ith col is use if qn ( zi = 123 ) > 123 ) .
wit thi ill , one can ide how the dif top mix in the doc tex .
whi dem the pow of lda , the pos ana als hig som of its lim - ita .
in par , the bag - of - wor ass all wor tha sho be gen by the sam top ( e . g . , wil ran hea fou ) to be all to sev dif top - ics .
ove thi lim wou req som for of ext of the bas lda mod in par , we mig rel the bag - of - wor ass by ass par exc or mar of wor seq .
app and emp res
in thi sec , we dis our emp eva of lda in sev pro dom mod , doc cla , and col lte .
in all of the mix mod , the exp com log lik of the dat has loc max - ima at the poi whe all or som of the mix com are equ to eac oth .
to avo the loc max , it is imp to ini the em alg app .
in our exp , we ini em by see eac con mul dis wit ve doc , red - ing the eff tot len to two wor , and smo acr the who voc .
thi is ess an app to the sch des in hec and mei ( 123 ) .
123 doc mod
we tra a num of lat var mod , inc lda , on two tex cor to com the gen per of the mod .
the doc in the cor are tre as unl thu , our goa is den est wis to ach hig lik on a hel - out tes set .
in par , we com the per of a hel - out tes set to eva the mod .
the per , use by con in lan mod , is mon dec in the lik of the tes dat , and is alg equ to the inv of the geo mea per - wor lik .
a low per sco ind bet gen per . 123 mor for , for a tes set of m doc , the per is :
per ( dte ) = exp
d=1 log p ( wd )
in our exp , we use a cor of sci abs fro the c .
ele com ( av - ery , 123 ) con 123 , 123 abs wit 123 , 123 uni ter , and a sub of the tre ap cor con 123 , 123 new art wit 123 , 123 uni ter .
in bot cas , we hel out 123 of the dat for tes pur and tra the mod on the rem 123 .
in pre the dat ,
not tha we sim use per as a gur of mer for com mod .
the mod tha we com are all uni ( bag - of - wor ) mod , whi we hav dis in the int of int in the inf - tio ret con .
we are not att to do lan mod in thi pap ent tha wou req us to exa tri or oth hig - ord mod .
we not in pas , how , tha ext of lda cou be con tha inv dir - mul ove tri ins of uni .
we lea the exp of suc ext to lan mod to fut wor .
lat dir all
\ch " \ed cai "
act gve car
the wil ran hea fou wil giv $12 mil to lin cen , met - tan ope co . , new yor phi and jui sch .
our boa fel tha we had a rea opp to mak a mar on the fut of the per art wit the gra an act eve bit as imp as our tra are of sup in hea , med res , edu and the soc ser , hea fou pre ran a .
hea sai mon in ann the gra .
lin cen sha wil be $12 , 123 for its new bui , whi wil hou you art and pro new pub fac .
the met ope co .
and new yor phi wil rec $12 , 123 eac .
the jui sch , whe mus and the per art are tau , wil get $12 , 123
the hea fou , a lea sup of the lin cen con cor fun , wil mak its usu ann $12 , 123
fig 123 : an exa art fro the ap cor .
eac col cod a dif fac fro whi
the wor is put gen .
ble , ng , and jor
smo mix .
uni fol in pls
num of top
smo mix .
uni fol in pls
num of top
fig 123 : per res on the nem ( top ) and ap ( bot ) cor for lda , the uni
mod , mix of uni , and pls .
lat dir all
top ( k ) per ( mul .
mix . ) per ( pls )
tab 123 : ove in the mix of uni and pls mod for the ap cor .
sim beh -
ior is obs in the nem cor ( not rep ) .
we rem a sta lis of 123 sto wor fro eac cor .
fro the ap dat , we fur rem wor tha occ onl onc .
we com lda wit the uni , mix of uni , and pls mod des in sec - tio 123
we tra all the hid var mod usi em wit exa the sam sto cri , tha the ave cha in exp log lik is les tha 123 .
bot the pls mod and the mix of uni suf fro ser ove iss , tho for dif rea .
thi phe is ill in tab 123
in the mix of uni mod , ove is a res of pea pos in the tra set a phe fam in the sup - vis set , whe thi mod is kno as the nai bay mod ( ren , 123 ) .
thi lea to a nea det clu of the tra doc ( in the e - ste ) whi is use to det the wor pro in eac mix com ( in the m - ste ) .
a pre uns doc may bes t one of the res mix com , but wil pro con at lea one wor whi did not occ in the tra doc tha wer ass to tha com .
suc wor wil hav a ver sma pro , whi cau the per of the new doc to exp .
as k inc , the doc of the tra cor are par int ner col and thu ind mor wor wit sma pro .
in the mix of uni , we can all ove thr the var bay smo - ing sch pre in sec 123 .
thi ens tha all wor wil hav som pro und eve mix com .
in the pls cas , the har clu pro is all by the fac tha eac doc is all to exh a dif pro of top .
how , pls onl ref to the tra doc - ume and a dif ove pro ari tha is due to the dim of the p ( zjd ) par .
one rea app to ass pro to a pre uns doc is by mar ove d :
p ( w ) = ( cid : 123 )
p ( wnj z ) p ( zj d ) p ( d ) .
ess , we are int ove the emp dis on the top sim ( see fig 123 ) .
thi met of inf , tho the sou , cau the mod to ove .
the doc - spe top dis has som com whi are clo to zer for tho top tha do not app in the doc .
thu , cer wor wil hav ver sma pro in the est of
ble , ng , and jor
eac mix com .
whe det the pro of a new doc thr mar - iza , onl tho tra doc whi exh a sim pro of top wil con to the lik .
for a giv tra doc top pro , any wor whi has sma pro in all the con top wil cau the per to exp .
as k get lar , the cha tha a tra doc wil exh top tha cov all the wor in the new doc dec and thu the per gro .
not tha pls doe not ove as qui ( wit res to k ) as the mix of uni .
thi ove pro ess ste fro the res tha eac fut doc exh the sam top pro as wer see in one or mor of the tra doc .
giv thi con , we are not fre to cho the mos lik pro of top for the new doc .
an alt app is the fol - in heu sug by hof ( 123 ) , whe one ign the p ( zjd ) par and ret p ( zjd ) .
not tha thi giv the pls mod an unf adv by all it to ret k 123 par to the tes dat .
lda suf fro nei of the pro .
as in pls , eac doc can exh a dif pro of und top .
how , lda can eas ass pro to a new doc no heu are nee for a new doc to be end wit a dif set of top pro tha wer ass wit doc in the tra cor .
fig 123 pre the per for eac mod on bot cor for dif val of k .
the pls mod and mix of uni are sui cor for ove .
the lat var mod per bet tha the sim uni mod .
lda con per bet tha the
123 doc cla
in the tex cla pro , we wis to cla a doc int two or mor mut ex - clu cla .
as in any cla pro , we may wis to con gen app or dis app .
in par , by usi one lda mod for eac cla , we obt a gen mod for cla .
it is als of int to use lda in the dis fra , and thi is our foc in thi sec .
a cha asp of the doc cla pro is the cho of fea .
tre ind wor as fea yie a ric but ver lar fea set ( joa , 123 ) .
one way to red thi fea set is to use an lda mod for dim red .
in par , lda red any doc to a xed set of rea - val fea pos dir par g ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) ass wit the doc .
it is of int to see how muc dis inf we los in red the doc des to the par .
we con two bin cla exp usi the reu - 123 dat
dat con 123 doc and 123 , 123 wor .
in the exp , we est the par of an lda mod on all the doc , wit ref to the tru cla lab .
we the tra a sup vec mac ( svm ) on the low - dim rep pro by lda and com thi svm to an svm tra on all the wor fea .
usi the svm sof pac ( joa , 123 ) , we com an svm tra on all the wor fea wit tho tra on fea ind by a 123 - top lda mod .
not tha we red the fea spa by 123 per in thi cas .
lat dir all
pro of dat use for tra
pro of dat use for tra
fig 123 : cla res on two bin cla pro fro the reu - 123 dat for dif pro of tra dat .
gra ( a ) is ear vs .
not ear .
gra ( b ) is gra vs .
not gra .
fol in pls smo mix .
uni
num of top
fig 123 : res for col lte on the eac dat .
fig 123 sho our res .
we see tha the is lit red in cla per in usi the lda - bas fea ind , in alm all cas the per is imp wit the lda fea .
alt the res nee fur sub , the sug tha the top - bas rep pro by lda may be use as a fas lte alg for fea sel in
ble , ng , and jor
123 col lte
our nal exp use the eac col lte dat .
in thi dat set , a col of use ind the pre mov cho .
a use and the mov cho are ana to a doc and the wor in the doc ( res ) .
the col lte tas is as fol .
we tra a mod on a ful obs set of use .
the , for eac uno use , we are sho all but one of the mov pre by tha use and are ask to pre wha the hel - out mov is .
the dif alg are eva acc to the lik the ass to the hel - out mov .
mor pre , den the pre per on m tes use to be :
pre - per ( dte ) = exp
d=1 log p ( wd , nd
we res the eac dat to use tha pos rat at lea 123 mov ( a pos rat is at lea fou out of ve sta ) .
we div thi set of use int 123 tra use and 123
und the mix of uni mod , the pro of a mov giv a set of obs mov
is obt fro the pos dis ove top :
p ( wjw ) = ( cid : 123 )
in the pls mod , the pro of a hel - out mov is giv by the sam equ exc tha p ( zjw ) is com by fol in the pre see mov .
fin , in the lda mod , the pro of a hel - out mov is giv by int ove the pos dir :
p ( wjz ) p ( zjq ) p ( q jwo ) dq ,
whe p ( q jwo ) is giv by the var inf met des in sec 123 .
not tha thi qua is efc to com .
we can int the sum and int sig , and com a lin com of k dir exp .
wit a voc of 123 mov , we nd the pre per ill in fig 123
aga , the mix of uni mod and pls are cor for ove , but the bes pre per are obt by the lda mod .
we hav des lat dir all , a exi gen pro mod for col - tio of dis dat .
lda is bas on a sim exc ass for the wor and top in a doc it is the rea by a str app of de fin rep - sen the .
we can vie lda as a dim red tec , in the spi of lsi , but wit pro und gen pro sem tha mak sen for the typ of dat tha it mod .
exa inf is int for lda , but any of a lar sui of app inf alg - rit can be use for inf and par est wit the lda fra .
we hav pre a sim con - bas var app for inf , sho tha it yie a fas
lat dir all
alg res in rea com per in ter of tes set lik .
oth app tha mig be con inc lap app , hig - ord var tec - niq , and mon car met .
in par , lei and kap ( 123 ) hav pre a gen met for con low - ord var low bou int hig - ord var - tio bou .
it is als pos to ach hig acc by dis wit the req of mai a bou , and ind min and laf ( 123 ) hav sho tha imp inf acc can be obt for the lda mod via a hig - ord var tec kno as ex - pec pro .
fin , gri and ste ( 123 ) hav pre a mar cha mon car alg for lda .
lda is a sim mod , and alt we vie it as a com to met suc as lsi and pls in the set of dim red for doc col and oth dis cor - por , it is als int to be ill of the way in whi pro mod can be sca up to pro use inf mac in dom inv mul lev of str .
in - dee , the pri adv of gen mod suc as lda inc the mod and the ext .
as a pro mod , lda can be rea emb in a mor com mod a pro tha is not pos by lsi .
in rec wor we hav use pai of lda mod to mod rel bet ima and the cor des cap ( ble and jor , 123 ) .
mor , the are num pos ext of lda .
for exa , lda is rea ext to con dat or oth non - mul dat .
as is the cas for oth mix mod , inc nit mix mod and hid mar mod , the emi pro p ( wnj zn ) con onl a lik val to the inf pro for lda , and oth lik are rea sub in its pla .
in par , it is str to dev a con var of lda in whi gau obs are use in pla of mul .
ano sim ext of lda com fro all mix of dir dis in the pla of the sin dir of lda .
thi all a ric str in the lat top spa and in par all a for of doc clu tha is dif fro the clu tha is ach via sha top .
fin , a var of ext of lda can be con in whi the dis on the top var are ela .
for exa , we cou arr the top in a tim ser , ess rel the ful exc ass to one of par exc .
we cou als con par exc mod in whi we con on exo var thu , for exa , the top dis cou be con on fea suc as par or sen , pro a mor pow tex mod tha mak use of inf obt fro a par .
thi wor was sup by the nat sci fou ( nsf gra iis - 123 ) and the mul res pro of the dep of def ( mur n12 - 123 - 123 - 123 ) .
and y .
ng and dav m .
ble wer add sup by fel fro the mic
