we dev the rel top mod ( rtm ) , a mod of doc and the lin bet the .
for eac pai of doc , the rtm mod the lin as a bin ran var tha is con on the con .
the mod can be use to sum a net of doc , pre lin bet the , and pre wor wit the .
we der efc inf and lea alg bas on var met - ods and eva the pre per of the rtm for lar net of sci abs and web doc .
net dat , suc as cit net of doc , hy - per net of web pag , and soc net of fri , are bec per in mod mac lea - ing app .
ana net dat pro use pre mod , poi soc net mem to - war new fri , sci pap tow rel cit - tio , and web pag tow oth rel pag .
rec res in thi eld has foc on lat var mod of lin str , mod whi dec a net - wor acc to hid pat of con bet its nod ( kem et al .
123 hof et al .
123 hof and wig 123 air et al .
tho pow , the mod acc onl for the str of the net , ig - nor obs att of the nod .
for exa , a net mod can nd pat whi acc for the ci - tat con bet sci art , but it can als acc for the tex .
thi typ of inf abo the nod , alo wit the
app in pro of the 123 int con - ren on art int and sta ( ais ) 123 , cle - ter bea , flo , usa .
vol 123 of jml : w&c 123
cop 123 by the aut .
lin bet the , sho be use for unc , und - sta and exp the lat str in the dat .
to thi end , we dev a new mod of net dat tha ac - cou for bot lin suc as cit and att suc acc for pat in bot sou of dat lea to a mor pow mod tha tho tha onl con lin .
giv a new nod and som of its lin , tra mod of net str can pro a pre dis of oth nod wit whi it it mig be con .
our mod nee not obs any lin of a new nod it can pre - dic lin usi onl its att .
thu , we can sug cit of new wri pap , pre the lik hyp - lin of a web pag in dev , or sug fri in a soc net bas onl on a new use pro of int .
mor , giv a new nod and its lin , our mod pro a pre dis of nod att .
thi com pre mec can be use to pre key fro cit or a use int fro his or her soc con .
the typ of pre are out of rea for tra net mod .
our mod is the rel top mod ( rtm ) , a hie - chi mod of lin and nod att .
foc on net - wor of tex dat , the rtm exp tie the con of the doc wit the con bet the .
fir , we des the sta ass beh the rtm .
the , we der efc alg for app pos in - fer , par est , and pre .
fin , we stu its per on sci cit net and hyp web pag .
the rtm pro sig bet wor pre and lin pre tha nat al - ter and the cur sta of the art .
123 rel top mod
the rel top mod ( rtm ) is a mod of dat com - pos of doc , whi are col of wor , and lin bet the ( see fig 123 ) .
it emb thi dat in a lat spa tha exp bot the wor of the doc and how the are con .
123 rel top mod for doc net
fig 123 : exa dat app for the rel top mod .
eac doc is rep as a bag of wor and lin to oth doc via cit .
the rtm den a joi dis ove the wor in eac doc and the cit lin bet the .
the rtm is bas on lat dir all ( lda ) ( ble et al .
lda is a gen pro mod tha use a set of top , dis ove a xed voc - ula , to des a cor of doc .
in its gen - tiv pro , eac doc is end wit a dir - dis vec of top pro , and eac wor of the doc is ass dra by rst dra a top ass fro tho pro and the dra the wor fro the cor top dis .
in the rtm , eac doc is rst gen fro top as in lda .
the lin bet doc are the mod as bin var , one for eac pai of doc .
the are dis acc to a dis tha dep on the top use to gen eac of the con doc .
in thi way , the con of the doc are sta con to the lin str bet the .
the par to the rtm are k dis ove ter 123 : k , a k - dim dir par , and a fun - tio tha pro bin pro .
( thi fun is exp in det bel . ) the rtm ass tha a set of obs doc w12 : d , 123 : n and bin lin bet the y12 : d , 123 : d are gen by the fol pro .
for eac doc d :
( a ) dra top pro d| dir ( ) .
( b ) for eac wor wd , n :
dra ass zd , n|d mul ( d ) .
dra wor wd , n|z , n , 123 : k mul ( zd , n ) .
for eac pai of doc d , d12 : ( a ) dra bin lin ind
y|z , zd1 ( |zd , zd1 ) .
fig 123 ill the gra mod for thi pro for a sin pai of doc .
the ful mod , whi is dif - cul to ill , con the obs wor fro all d doc , and d12 lin var for eac pos con - nec bet the .
the fun is the lin pro fun tha den a dis ove the lin bet two doc .
thi fun is dep on the top ass tha gen - ate the wor , zd and zd1
we exp two pos .
fir , we con
( y = 123 ) = ( t ( zd zd1 ) + ) ,
the not den the whe zd = 123 had ( ele - wis ) pro , and the fun is the sig .
thi lin fun mod eac per - pai bi - nar var as a log reg wit hid cov - ate .
it is par by coe and int .
the cov are con by the had pro of zd and zd1 , whi cap sim bet the hid top rep of the two doc .
sec , we con
e ( y = 123 ) = exp ( t ( zd zd1 ) + ) .
her , e use the sam cov as , but has an ex - pon mea fun ins .
rat tha tap off whe zd zd1 are clo , the pro ret by thi fun con to inc exp .
wit som alg man , the fun e can be vie as an app var of the mod met pre - sen in ble and jor ( 123 ) .
in bot of the fun we con , the res is a fun of the lat fea exp , zd and zd1
123 add the pro of fin a sub of fea tha all a sup ind alg to ind sma hig - acc con . . . irr fea and the sub sel pro man dom , an app ind bia is the min - fea bia , whi pre con hyp def ove as few fea as pos . . . lea wit man irr fea thi int , we def the ter bia as it is use in mac lea sys .
we mot the imp of aut met for eva . . . eva and sel of bia in mac lea ind lea pro con of lea a con giv exa and non of the con .
to per thi lea tas , ind lea alg bia the lea met . . . uti pri con for lea pro of lea dec rul for seq tas is add , foc on the pro of lea tac pla fro a sim fli sim whe a pla mus avo a mis . . . imp tac pla wit gen alg lea met hav bee fou to be use in sev are in the dev of int rob .
in the app des her , evo . . . an evo app to lea in rob thr obs suc as min fie is an imp cap for aut und veh .
one way to pro rob beh . . . usi a gen alg to lea str for col avo and loc nav . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . cha , ble
fig 123 : a two - doc seg of the rtm .
the var y ind whe the two doc are lin .
the com mod con thi var for eac pai of doc .
the pla ind rep .
thi mod cap bot the wor and the lin str of the dat sho in fig 123
for , ins by the sup lda mod ( ble and mca 123 ) , ens tha the sam lat top as - sig use to gen the con of the doc als gen the lin str .
mod whi do not enf thi cou , suc as nal et al .
( 123 ) , mig div the top int two ind sub for lin and the oth for wor .
suc a dec pre - ven the mod fro mak mea pre abo lin giv wor and wor giv lin .
tio 123 we dem emp tha the rtm out - for suc mod on the tas .
inf , est , and
wit the mod den , we tur to app pos - rio inf , par est , and pre .
we dev a var inf pro for app - ing the pos .
we use thi pro in a var exp - max ( em ) alg for par est .
fin , we sho how a mod who par - ter hav bee est can be use as a pre mod of wor and lin .
in pos inf , we see to com the pos dis of the lat var con - tio on the obs .
exa pos inf is in - tra ( ble et al .
123 ble and mca 123 ) .
we app to var met .
in var met , we pos a fam of dis ove the lat var ind by fre var pa - ram .
tho par are t to be clo to the tru pos , whe clo is mea by rel ent .
see jor et al .
( 123 ) for a rev .
we use the ful -
q ( , z| , ) =q
n qz ( zd , n|d , n ) ) ,
123 ove doc pai ( d12 , d12 ) are und to ran
ove pai for whi a lin has bee obs .
whe is a set of dir par , one for eac doc - ume , and is a set of mul par , one for eac wor in eac doc .
not tha eq ( zd , n ) = d , n .
min the rel ent is equ to max - ing the jen low bou on the mar pro of the obs , i . e . , the evi low bou ( elb ) ,
eq ( log p ( yd1 , d12 , zd1 , , ) ) + eq ( log p ( wd , n|1 : k , zd , n ) ) + eq ( log p ( zd , n|d ) ) + eq ( log p ( d| ) ) + h ( q ) ,
whe ( d12 , d12 ) den all doc pai .
the rst ter of the elb dif the rtm fro lda ( ble et al .
the con bet doc aff the ob - jec in app pos inf ( and , bel , in we dev the inf pro und the ass tha onl obs lin wil be mod ( i . e . , yd1 , d12 is ei - the 123 or uno ) . 123 we do thi for two rea .
fir , whi one can x yd1 , d12 = 123 whe a lin is ob - ser bet d12 and d12 and set yd1 , d12 = 123 oth , thi app is ina in cor whe the abs of a lin can be con as evi for yd1 , d12 = 123
in the cas , tre the lin as uno var is mor fai to the und sem of the dat .
for exa , in lar soc net suc as fac the ab - sen of a lin bet two peo doe not nec mea tha the are not fri the may be rea fri who are una of eac oth exi in the net .
tre thi lin as uno bet res our lac of kno abo the sta of the rel .
sec , tre non - lin lin as hid dec the
123 , nzd , nkk , d ' nd ' d ' wd ' , nzd ' , n rel top mod for doc net
com cos of inf sin the lin var are lea in the gra mod the can be rem whe - eve the are uno .
thu the com of com - tat sca wit the num of obs lin rat tha the num of doc pai .
thi pro a sig our aim now is to com eac ter of the obj fun giv in equ 123
the rst ter dep on our cho of lin pro fun .
thi ter is not tra to com whe the log fun of equ - tio 123 is cho .
we use a rst - ord app ( bra and mca 123 ) ,
t d12 , d12 + + log ( cid : 123 ) t d12 , d12 ( cid : 123 ) ,
ld1 , d12 eq ( log p ( yd1 , d12 = 123 , zd1 , , ) ) whe d12 , d12 = d12 d12 and d = eq ( zd ) = n d , n .
whe e is the res fun , thi ter can be com exp as eq ( log p ( yd1 , d12 = 123 , zd1 , , ) ) = t d12 , d12 + .
we use coo asc to opt the elb wit re - spe to the var par , ,
d12 ( d , d12 ld , d12 ) d12 eq ( log d|d ) + log , wd , j ) ,
whe ld , d12 is com acc to eit equ 123 or log , wd , j can be com - 123 dep on the cho of .
put by tak the ele - wis log of the wd , jth
col of .
eq ( log d|d ) is ( d ) ( p d , i ) , whe for lda ( ble et al .
123 ) , d +p
is the dig fun .
( a dig of a vec is the vec of dig . ) the upd for is ide to tha in var inf
par est we t the mod by ndi max - imu lik est for eac of the par : mul top vec 123 : k and lin fun par - ete , .
onc aga , thi is int so we tur to an app .
we emp var exp - max , whe we ite bet opt the elb of equ 123 wit res to the var dis - but and wit res to the mod par .
opt wit res to the var dis is de - scr in sec 123
opt wit res to the mod par is equ to max lik est wit exp suf sta , whe the exp is tak wit res to the var dis .
sin the ter in equ 123 tha inv are ide to tho in lda , est the top vec can be don via the sam upd :
123 ( wd , n = w ) k
in pra , we smo our est of k , w usi a sym - met dir pri on the top .
it is not pos to dir opt the par of the lin pro fun wit neg obs ( i . e . , yd1 , d12 = 123 ) .
we add thi by app a reg - iza pen par by a sca , .
the eff of thi reg is to pos som num of lat neg - ati obs in the net and to inc the int the par est .
the fre of the neg - tiv obs is con by .
( for spa we omi the der of thi reg ter . ) whe usi the log fun of equ 123 , we use gra - bas opt to est the par and .
usi the app use in equ 123 , the rel gra of the elb are
( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) td1 , d12 + ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) d12 , d12 ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) td1 , d12 + ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) / k 123 + ( cid : 123 ) / k 123 , ( cid : 123 ) 123 / k 123 + ( cid : 123 ) .
log ( cid : 123 ) 123 123 ( cid : 123 ) log log ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) log
+ 123 123
whe usi the exp fun of equ 123 , we can est the par and ana ,
pre wit a tte mod , our ult goa is to mak pre abo new dat .
we des two kin of pre : lin pre fro wor and wor pre in lin pre , we are giv a new doc ( i . e .
a doc whi is not in the tra set ) and its wor .
we are ask to pre its lin to the oth doc .
thi req com p ( yd , d12 , wd1 ) =
zd , zd1 p ( yd , d12 , zd1 ) p ( zd , zd1 , wd1 ) ,
an exp wit res to a pos tha we can com .
usi the inf alg fro sec 123 , we nd var par whi opt the elb for the giv evi , i . e . , the wor and lin for the tra doc and the wor in the tes doc .
rep the pos wit thi app q ( , z ) , the pre - tiv pro is app wit
p ( yd , d12 , wd1 ) eq ( p ( yd , d12 , zd1 ) ) .
in a var of lin pre , we are giv a new set of doc ( doc not in the tra set ) alo wit
123 cha , ble
the wor and ask to sel the lin mos lik to exi .
the pre pro for thi tas is pro to the sec pre tas is wor pre , whe we pre the wor of a new doc bas onl on its lin .
as wit lin pre , p ( wd , i|y ) can be com - put .
usi the sam tec , a var dis can app thi pos .
thi yie the pre
p ( wd , i|y ) eq ( p ( wd , i|z , i ) ) .
not tha mod whi tre the end of lin as lex - ica tok can par in the two tas pre her bec the can mak mea pre for doc tha do not app in the tra set ( nal - ati and coh 123 coh and hof 123 sin et al .
by mod bot doc and lin gen - era , our mod is abl to giv pre dis for wor giv lin , lin giv wor , or any mix
123 emp res
we exa the rtm on thr dat set .
wor wer ste sto wor and inf occ wor wer rem .
dir lin wer con to und lin and doc wit no lin wer rem .
the cor dat ( mcc et al .
123 ) con abs fro the cor res pap sea eng , wit lin bet doc tha cit eac oth .
the web dat ( cra et al .
123 ) con web pag fro the com sci dep of dif uni , wit lin det fro the hyp on eac pag .
the pna dat con - tai rec abs fro the pro of the nat aca of sci .
the lin bet doc are
eva the pre dis as wit any pro mod , the rtm den a pro dis - but ove uns dat .
aft inf the lat var fro dat ( as des in sec 123 ) , we ask how wel the mod pre the lin and wor of uns nod .
mod - els tha giv hig pro to the uns doc bet cap the joi str of wor and lin .
we stu the two var of the rtm dis abo : lo - gis rtm use the log lin of equ 123 exp
123 rtm can be ext to acc dir con -
her we mod und lin .
123 pro , the cor dat con 123 doc , 123 wor , 123 lin , and a lex of 123 ter .
the we - bkb dat con 123 doc , 123 wor , 123 lin , and a lex of 123 ter .
the pna dat con 123 doc - ume , 123 wor , 123 lin , and had a lex of 123
rtm use the exp lin of equ 123
we com the mod aga thr alt app .
the rst ( bas ) mod wor and lin ind .
the wor are mod wit a mul the lin are mod - ele wit a ber .
the sec ( mix - mem ) is the mod pro by nal et al .
( 123 ) , whi is an ext of the mix mem sto blo mod ( air et al .
123 ) to mod net str and nod att .
the thi ( lda + reg ) rst ts an lda mod to the doc and the ts a log reg - sio mod to the obs lin , wit inp giv by the had pro of the lat cla dis of eac pai of doc .
rat tha per dim - ity red and reg sim , thi met per uns dim red rst , and the reg to und the rel bet the lat spa and und lin str .
all mod wer tra suc tha the tot mas of the dir hyp - ram was 123 .
( whi we omi a ful sen stu her , we obs tha the per of the mod was sim for wit a fac of 123 abo and bel the val we mea the per of the mod on lin pre - dic and wor pre ( see sec 123 ) .
we div eac dat set int ve fol .
for eac fol and for eac mod , we ask two pre que : giv the wor of a new doc , wha is the lik of its lin and giv the lin of a new doc , wha is the lik of its wor ? aga , the pre que are for com - ple new tes doc tha are not obs in tra - ing .
dur tra the tes doc are rem alo wit the att lin .
we sho the res for bot tas in fig 123
in pre lin , the two var of the rtm per bet tha all of the alt mod for all of the dat set ( see fig 123 , top row ) .
cor is par , sho a nea 123 imp in log lik for exp rtm ove bas and 123 imp ove lda + re - gre .
log rtm per nea as wel on cor wit an app 123 imp ove bas and 123 imp ove lda + reg .
we emp tha the lin are pre to doc see in the tra - ing set fro doc whi wer hel out .
by inc - por lin and nod inf in a joi fas , the mod is abl to gen to new doc for whi no lin inf was pre kno .
the per of the mix - mem mod rar dev fro the bas .
des its inc dim - sio ( and com inc in com dif - cul ) , onl on pna and onl whe the num of top - ics is lar is the mix - mem mod com wit any of the pro mod .
we hyp tha the mix - mem mod exh thi beh bec it use som top to exp the wor obs in the tra -
123 rel top mod for doc net
fig 123 : ave hel - out pre lin log lik ( top ) and wor log lik ( bot ) as a fun of the num of top .
for all thr cor , rtm out bas uni , lda , and mix - mem , whi is the mod of nal et al .
( 123 ) .
ing set , and oth top to exp the lin obs in the tra set .
the , it can use wor obs to in pre wor , the two var of the rtm aga out - per all of the alt mod ( see fig 123 , bot row ) .
thi is bec the rtm use lin inf to in - uen the pre dis of wor .
in con , the pre of lda + reg are sim to the bas - lin .
the pre of the mix - mem mod are rar hig tha bas , and oft low .
aut lin sug a nat rea - wor app - tio of lin pre is to sug lin to a use bas on the tex of a doc .
one mig sug cit for an abs or fri for a use in a soc net .
tab 123 ill sug cit usi rtm ( e ) and lda + reg as pre mod .
the sug wer com fro a mod tra on one of the fol of the cor dat .
the top res ill sug lin for mar cha mon car con dia :
a com rev , whi occ in thi fol tra set .
the bot res ill sug lin for com - pet env evo bet sol for com tas , whi is in the tes set .
rtm out lda + reg in bei abl to ide - tif mor tru con .
for the rst doc , rtm nds 123 of the con doc ver 123 for lda + reg .
for the sec doc , rtm nds 123 whi lda + reg doe not nd any .
thi qua be - hav is bor out qua ove the ent cor .
con the pre of the rst 123 doc re - tri by the mod , rtm imp pre ove lda + reg by 123 .
( twe is a rea num of doc for a use to exa . ) whi bot mod fou sev con whi wer not obs in the dat , tho fou by the rtm are qua - ita dif .
in the rst doc , bot set of sug - ges lin are abo mar cha mon car .
how - eve , the rtm nds mor doc rel spe to con and sta beh of mon car met -
123 . 123 . 123 log lik of top log lik . 123 . 123 of top , , yys , , yye + reg mix / ber . 123 . 123 of top cha , ble
mar cha mon car con dia : a com rev
min con and con rat for mar cha mon car
rat of con of the has and met alg pos bia ind by mcm con dia
bou con tim of the gib sam in bay ima res
sel reg mar cha mon car
aux var met for mar cha mon car wit app rat of con of the gib sam by gau app
dia con of mar cha mon car alg
exa bou for the con of met cha
sel reg mar cha mon car
min con and con rat for mar cha mon car
aux var met for mar cha mon car wit app
mar cha mon car mod det for hie and gra mod
med ins var
a qua fra for pro inf
ada for sel reg mcm
com env evo bet sol for com tas
coe hig lev rep
a sur of evo str
gen alg in sea , opt and mac lea
str typ gen pro in evo coo str
sol com pro usi evo alg
a pro gen alg app to job - sho sch , res , and ope - sho sch pro
an emp inv of mul - par rec ope in evo str
evo mod acq
a pro gen alg app to job - sho sch , res , and ope - sho sch pro
a new alg for dna seq ass
ide of pro cod reg in gen dna
sol com pro usi evo alg
a gen alg for pas man
the per of a gen alg on a cha obj fun
ada glo opt wit loc sea
mut rat as ada
tab 123 : top eig lin pre mad by rtm ( e ) and lda + reg for two doc ( ita ) fro cor .
the mod wer tra wit 123 top .
bol tit ind act doc cit by or cit eac doc .
ove the who cor , rtm imp pre ove lda + reg by 123 whe eva on the rst 123 doc
lda + reg nds con to doc in the mil of mcm , but man are onl ind rel to the inp doc .
the rtm is abl to cap tha the not of con is an imp pre for ci - tat , and has adj the top dis and pre - tor cor .
for the sec doc , the doc - men fou by the rtm are als of a dif nat tha tho fou by lda + reg .
all of the doc sug by rtm rel to gen alg .
lda + reg , how , sug som doc whi are abo gen .
by rel onl on wor , lda + re - gre con two gen top whi are sim in voc but dif in cit str .
in con , the rtm par the lat spa dif , rec tha pap abo dna seq are unl to cit pa - per abo gen alg , and vic ver .
it is bet abl to cap the joi dis of wor and lin .
123 rel wor and dis
the rtm bui on pre res in sta and ma - chi lea .
man mod hav bee dev to exp net lin str ( was and pat 123 new 123 ) and ext whi inc nod att hav bee pro ( get et al .
123 tas et al .
how , the mod are not la - ten spa app and the can pro the ben of dim red and pro the int - pre clu of nod use for und com - the rtm , in con , is a lat spa app whi can pro mea clu of bot nod and at - tri .
sev lat spa mod for mod net - wor str hav bee pro ( kem et al .
123 hof et al .
123 hof and wig 123 air et al .
123 ) ; tho pow , the mod onl acc for lin in the dat and can mod nod att as wel .
123 rel top mod for doc net
bec the rtm joi mod nod att and lin str , it can mak pre abo one giv the oth .
pre wor ten to exp one or the oth of the two pre pro .
som pre wor use lin str - tur to mak att pre ( cha et al .
123 kle 123 ) , inc sev top mod ( die et al .
123 mcc et al .
123 wan et al .
how - eve , non of the met can mak pre abo lin giv wor .
in add to bei abl to mak pre abo lin giv wor and wor giv lin , the rtm is abl to do so for new doc out of tra dat .
app whi gen doc lin thr top mod ( nal and coh 123 coh and hof - man 123 sin et al .
123 gru et al .
123 ) tre lin as dis ter fro a sep voc .
thi enc the obs tra dat int the mod , whi can be gen to obs out of it .
lin and wor pre for new doc , of the kin we eva in sec 123 , are ill - den in the mod .
clo to the rtm is rec wor by nal et al .
( 123 ) and mei et al .
( 123 ) , whi att to add the iss by ext the mix - mem sto blo mod ( air et al .
123 ) to inc wor att .
bec of the und exc ass , the mod all for the lin to be exp by som top and the wor to be exp by oth .
thi hin - der the pre whe usi inf abo wor to pre lin str and vic ver .
in con , the rtm enf the con tha top be use to exp bot wor and lin .
we sho in sec 123 tha the rtm out suc mod on the tas .
the rtm is a new pro gen mod of doc - ume and lin bet the .
the rtm is use to ana - lyz lin cor suc as cit net , lin web pag , and soc net wit use pro .
we hav dem qua and qua tha the rtm pro an eff and use mec for ana and usi suc dat .
it sig imp on pre mod , int bot nod - spe inf and lin str to giv bet pre .
dav m .
ble is sup by onr 123 - 123 , nsf ca - ree 123 , and gra fro goo and mic .
