ic ic ls re a ar ol or he ed is of xt , ng th a ve el of re xt nd a nt ic on of he us .
rs ly me at he nt ce is ly ul .
it is ed to ck ls , ze he us , nd de lo - on of ts ts .
er , er he nt ce is le is in ed of ve on .
in is er , we nt ew ve ds or ng ic ng in ed cs .
we ck se es th ge - le er es , ng at ey re ts of he el at re ed by us es of el ty ed on ld - ut od .
ly , ic ls ch rm er on ld - ut od ay er ss ly ul cs .
ic ic ls ve me ar ls or he ed is of ge nt ns ( 23 ) .
se ls it a et of nt cs , al ns er ds , nd me at ch nt an be ed as a re of se cs .
th ms or st te or ce , we an se ic ls to er th he cs nd an nt of cs to ts om a on of ts .
( ee re 23 ) se ng ns re ul in he se at , ly , ey ad to od ls of ts .
ey so ly ad to ly ul ns of em : cs nd to ce gh ty on ds at nt ts , nd ts re ed as ns of se ts .
ng he ed cs is ve or el on nd or ng at he el is ng he rs ns ut he ts .
er , ng a an - le on of he ts an be a al in lf , as en ng or ng a ge on of ts .
in is it , ch of he re ng nt ic ls ts es of cs nd es of nt - ic ts to lp nd a ls cs .
cs so an lp rs er ew nt ia us on ( 23 ) .
he on of se cs es , er ly or ly , as a ve on of he nt ce , ut re is no it ve on of em .
ad , rs oy a ty of cs of el t , ch as ty or ld - ut od .
ch es re ul or ng he ve el , ut do ot ss he re ry ls of ic ng .
rk ne le at on ty .
( b ) nt ts to cs
re 23 : he nt ce of a ic el ts of cs , ch re ns er ds , nd a on er se cs or ch nt .
on he ft re ee cs om a ty ic da el ed on es om he ew rk es .
on he ht is a ex ng he on er cs ed th en ts .
he ne om ch ts le ws he ts on in he
in is er , we nt a od or ng he ty of a ic el .
we se wo an on ks to ly te th he ty of he cs ed by he el nd ow ll he el ns cs to ts .
he st , rd on , es ow ly ve he cs ed by a el re nd ts er cs nd to al gs or ns .
he nd , ic on , es ow ll a ic ls on of a nt as a re of cs es th an ns of cs th a nt .
we rt he ts of a ge - le an dy of se ks , ng th ng ns nd er of cs .
we ow at se ks re ts of ic ls ot ed by ng cs ls ch ve er ve ty en ve ss le nt es .
23 ic ls nd ir ns
ic ls it at ch nt is ed as a re of cs .
se ic ns re wn ce er nt , nd he cs re ed ss he us .
in is er we ll er ic ls at ke nt ns ut he ic ns .
ic nt ic ng ( si ) ( 23 ) es no ns ut he nt ic on , ng it as a ct er or ch nt .
nt et on ( da ) ( 23 ) nd he ed ic el ( tm ) ( 23 ) at ch ts ic nt as a al om le wn om a ic et nd ic al or , ly .
le he ls ke nt ns , ce ms or ll of se ic ls ld he me pe of nt ce : a on of cs or he us nd a on of ic ns or ch of ts ts .
le is on nt ce as ed or er wo es , ts ty ns ed .
ay no on to he nt ce nd he el
gh we us on ic ic ls , he ld an in st th nt ic is ( sa ) ( 23 ) .
sa , he is of is ic on , es ar ra to om - se a us to ts nt es .
se sa ed in he gy ty , ly ns ed on ng an ce or ts ng sa : ng ce on ed ts , ng se ns , nd ng ns ut my ( se ts re ed in ( 23 ) ) .
in on al , re sa is wn as nt ic ng ( si ) ( 23 ) , it is le to ch es to ts , ch ts to as of se , nd en ze ss es en a el us ( 23 ) .
er , gy , em , ce , te , ne , et , ay , lm , ie , er , on , ar , or , ll , le , re , ct , ss , ng , et , ic ic ic et he eg , st ad he ie ex ed as in to he pe of ma , ed at he ck of a ea ul ew ts ts re ts th ck es : a er al or rs sn ' t he ee ig et ls in to sh ng es as ng ed ht , en ht : a 23 - ne l . e . d .
to fy ic ic ic 23 he ce to ok er he od of se ls as ed en as ls ve ed om gy to er ce th he nt of si nd da .
ls er se es ed on ld - ut od ( 23 , 23 ) or an al sk at is nt of he ic ce ch as nt on ( 23 ) or on al ( 23 ) .
is is ue en or ls ed to ve ly nt cs ( 23 ) .
or ls at se ld - ut od , ch et al .
( 23 ) de a ry of on es .
se cs ow ls om he ge ng ty to re ow ll he on ed om a us es to en ts .
se cs ze ly nd ow or od - ed ns of nt ls or on of el rs ch as he er of cs .
er , is ty es at a st : se ds ly re he ty of s; he al on of he ls is ed .
hs et al .
( 23 ) is an nt on to he nd of ng al ks or ld - ut od .
ey ed at he er of cs a rd rs in es th ow ny ct es it as nd ed ny of he cs ed in he al ty ed on an ce .
er , is is ll ot a ep is of he re of he nt ce , as it es ot ne he re of he cs es .
we ze at ot ng he al on of ic ls is at ds th ir on nd nt .
st ic ng rs ay ve ts of he ed cs or ly rt at cs re ly ul , nd rs se cs or el ng ng he nt ss .
ll et al .
( 23 ) , or le , ed nt cs ed ly nt to re es in he ic re .
en in on ts , cs re ed as es : xa ( tp : / / xa . fo ) , a ly on ch ne , ys he cs ed th ts .
is it on at cs ve ic ng or rs as en ed rk at ts to ly el cs ( 23 ) .
ur al is to re he ss of ng ic ls ss er of cs nd ng
23 ng an ts to ne he cs
gh re rs to be a ng on at he nt ce ed by ic ls is ul nd ul , ng ch ns is lt se ng cs is an ed ss .
re is no ld - rd st of cs to re st or ry us .
us , ng he nt ce of ic ls es us to er us ta .
in is on we se wo ks at te a al ng re ns an te he wo ts of he nt ce of a ic el .
he st nt is he up of he cs .
we op a sk to te er a ic as an - le ic ce .
is sk is ed rd on , as ts st fy a us rd ed to a ic .
he nd sk ts er he on en a nt nd a ic es se .
we ll is sk ic on , as he ct st fy a ic at as ot ed th he nt by he
23 rd on
to re he ce of se cs , we op he rd on k; is sk es ng he nt ce ed in re 23 ( a ) .
in he rd on sk , he ct is ed th ix ly ed ds .
he sk of he er is to nd he rd ch is ut of ce or es ot ng th he rs , i . e . , he er .
re 23 ws ow is sk is ed to rs .
en he et of ds us he er es se er , en he ct ld ly fy he er .
or le , st le ly fy le as he ng rd in he et ( og , at , se , le , ig , ow ) se he ng ds , ( og , at , se , ig , ow ) ke se er ey re ll ls .
or he et ( ar , er , us , le , ue , re ) , ch ks ch ce , ng he er is lt .
le ll ly se an er at om , ng a ic th or ce .
in er to ct a et to nt to he ct , we st ct at om a ic om he el .
we en ct he ve st le ds om at ic .
in on to se ds , an er
re 23 : ts of ur wo an ks .
in he rd on sk ( ft ) , ts re ed th a et of ds nd ed to ct he rd ch es ot ng th he rs .
in he ic on sk ( ht ) , rs re en a ts le nd he st ew es of he nt .
he rs st ct ch of he ur ps of ds es ot ng .
rd is ed at om om a ol of ds th ow ty in he nt ic ( to ce he ty at he er es om he me ic up ) ut gh ty in me er ic ( to re at he er is ot ed ht ue ly to ty ) .
ll ix ds re en ed nd ed to he ct .
23 ic on
he ic on sk ts er a ic ls on of ts to a re of cs es th an ts of he ts nt .
is ws or on of he nt ce ed by re 23 ( b ) .
in is sk , ts re wn he le nd a et om a nt .
ng th he nt ey re ed th ur cs ( ch ic is ed by he ht st - ty ds in at ic ) .
ee of se cs re he st ty cs ed to at nt .
he ng er ic is en ly om he er ow - ty cs in he el .
he ct is ed to se he ic ch es ot ng th he nt .
as re , if he ic nt to ts re nt nd ve , we ld ct at ts ld ct he ic we ly ed as he ic at id ot ng .
he on of is sk es a al ay to ze he ty of nt - ic ts nd by he ic ls .
ch of he ee ls we t ly ns ic ts to ch t; is sk es er ns ke he me on .
ue to me ts , ts do ot ee he re t; ey ly ee he le nd st ew es .
le is is ss on an is le to he hm , ns re od at ng om ed ta , nd ur ra ( ia nd er ) re ed to de an ew of he le in he st ew es .
he up of is sk is so ul in ns re ne ht be ed to se cs or us on .
if cs re ed to nd nt ts , or le , rs ll ly be ed th ar ws of he ts ( e . g .
le nd ct , as in xa ) .
or th he rd on nd ic on ks , ts re ed to us on he gs of ds , ot ir ic ge or hy .
we so ed ts th he on of ng he ct er er ey ed ir wn se , to ke he ks re ng .
re he ct er as ed by he el ch ed he ta , ed as if it re he se of er er .
at he me me , ts re ed to se ir es on ir wn ns , ot to ry to ch er ts ( he ls ) ns .
in ll ts , we ve nd at is ra on id ot as ts es .
23 al ts
to re ta or an ts to ew , we t ee nt ic ls on wo ra .
in is on , we be ow we ed he ra , t he ls , nd ed he ks ed in on 23
we en nt he ts of se an ls nd re em to cs ly ed to te ic ls .
rd ic on 23 ls nd ra
in is rk we dy ee ic ls : ic nt ic ng ( si ) ( 23 ) , nt et on ( da ) ( 23 ) , nd he ed ic el ( tm ) ( 23 ) , ch re ll ed ip ls ( 23 ) .
he er of nt cs , k , is a ee er in ch of he s; re we re is th k = 23 , 23 nd 23
he ng rs k , he ic al on or ic k; nd d , he ic re ns or nt d re ed om ta .
he ee ls er in ow se nt rs re ed .
si in si , he ic re ns d re a er or ch nt .
us , si is ot a ly ve el , nd he er of rs ws ly th he er of ts .
we t si ng he em hm ( 23 ) ut ze is es of d ng do - nt ng , = 23
da da is a ly ve el of ts re he re ns d re ed as a om le wn om a et or on .
se he ct on of he or is le , we oy al ce ( 23 ) nd et he ic et or er , , to 23
tm in da , he ts of d re ly nt ( i . e . , d is ly al ) .
tm ws or a er ce re en ic ns by ng a ic al or er he ic re ns d .
or ch ic , k , a al is wn om a al on nd ed .
is et of k on - ve rs re en ed to ld d .
re , we in he tm ng al ce ( 23 ) .
we in ch el on wo ra .
or ch us , we ly a rt of ch er ( 23 ) nd ve ll ns ed as er ns ( is as or he et of he an s; ss in ly ts ed oo ch ic ge ) .
op ds ( 23 ) nd ms ng in er an ve ts re so ed .
he wo ra we se re 23 ) a on of 23 es om he ew rk es om he rs 23 to 23 th a ry ze of 23 ue es nd nd ne on ns nd 23 ) a le of 23 es om ia ( tp : / / ww . ia . rg ) th a ry ze of 23 ue es nd ee on ns .
23 on ng al ve es
re re al cs ly ed to te ic ls in he re ( 23 ) .
ny of se cs re ve s; at is , ey re he ls ty to ct a st et of en ts er ng ed ts rs om a ng et .
in is rk , we et de 3% of he ts in ch us as a st et nd in on he ng 3% of ts .
we en te ve nk nd ve og od .
to re cy of on ss nt ls , we ow eh et al . s ( 23 ) on of he ve od p ( in ) ng p ( in ) p ( |d ) , re d is a nt te of he or ic ns or nt d .
or si d is he ap e; or da nd tm d is he an of he al or .
th is on , we an sk at ds he el es ll be in he nt nd re it th he ts al on .
en nt wd , we st te d nd en or ry rd in he ry , we te z p ( |z ) p ( |d ) .
en we te he ge nk or he ms at ly
p ( |d ) = ( id : 23 )
ed in nt wd ( we ow he on at er nk is er ) .
he ge rd od nd ge nk ss ll ts in ur st et re wn in le 23
se ts re nt th he es ed in he re ( 23 , 23 ) ; in st es tm ms st , ed by da .
23 ng an ns
he ks ed in on 23 re ed on on al rk ( tp : / / ww . rk . om ) , ch ws rs ( ur ol of ve ts ) to rm ll bs or a ee gh a eb ce .
no ed ng or ge is ly ed of he rs .
on al rk as en ly ed in he st to op ld - rd ta or al ge ng ( 23 ) nd to el es ( 23 ) .
or th he rd on nd ic on
le 23 : wo ve cs : ve og od / ve nk .
nt th es ed in he re , tm ly ms he st , ed by da , en si .
he ld rs te he st ce in ch ow .
ew rk es
- 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23
- 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23
- 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23 - 23 / 23
re 23 : he el on ( on 23 ) or he ee ls on wo ra .
er is er .
ly , gh tm ly es a er ve od an he er ls ( le 23 ) , he cs it rs re st en ed st an ts .
ks , we ed ch er th bs ng en of he ks ed in on 23
ch ob as ed by 23 te rs , nd rs re id en 23 23 er ob .
rd on as ed in on 23 , he rd on sk es ow ll he ed cs ch an ts ( ng el on , i . e . , ow ll he rs ed by he ts nd to se ed to es nd by he ic el ) .
k be he ex of he ng rd ng he ds ed om he th ic ed by el m .
er et im k , s be he er ed by ct s on he et of ds ed om he th ic ed by el m nd et s te he er of ts .
we ne el on by he on of ts ng th he el ,
k , s = m
re 23 ws ts of he on or he ee ls on he wo ra .
in st es da ms st .
gh tm es er ve ts on ld - ut od , it es ot rm as ll on an ns .
is ay be se tm ds ns en cs nd ns in cs re ng s; he er or ne ic ht be ed om er ly ed ic .
he ce of si es th er rs of cs , ng at ng ( 23 ) ht ct ty as ll as ve er .
re 23 ( ft ) ws es of cs th gh nd ow el ns om he ny es ta t th da ng 23 cs .
in he le th gh on , he ic ds ll ly ss a ng me .
or he ow on le , is id ot t in th he er al ds in he ic , as 3% of ts se is as he er .
he ip en el on , pm k , nd he ls te of he od of he ng rd in re 23 ( op ow ) is ng .
he st ty id ot ve he st y; in ct , he nd as he te .
is ts at as cs me re ne - ed in ls th er er of cs , ey re ss ul or ns .
he rd
el 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 23 23 ew rk ia re 23 : a am of he el ns on he ew rk es us ( ft ) nd ic og ds on he ia us ( ht ) ed or he ty ic da el .
on he ft , le cs re wn or al s; he cs in ns th er el on ce a re nt me .
on he ht , le nt es re wn or al s; ts th er ic og ds an be re ly ed as a re of cs .
re 23 : a er ot of el on ( op ow ) nd ic og ds ( om ow ) vs .
ve og od .
ch nt is ed by el nd ed ng to he er of cs ed to t he el .
ch el is ed by a on ne .
ng od es ot se he nt en an ts nd he el or er sk ( as wn by he rd - ng on es ) .
ng nd es in re 23 ng at he ls re en ng ed od or he el on ed a ve on ( ns = 23 ed ss ll ls , ra , nd cs ) th he er of es in et of he ds ed to he ts ( 23 ) nd a ht ve on ( = 23 ) th he ge se ng - th ty of 23 ( 23 ) .
ic on in on 23 , we ed he ic on sk to re ow ll a ic el ns cs to ts .
we ne he ic og ds as a ve re of he nt en he el nd an ts on is sk .
et m d te el ms nt te of he ic ns or ed th nt d ( as ed in on 23 ) .
d , s ( 23 .
k ) be he ng ic ed by ct s or nt d on el er , et jm m nd et jm d , te he ue er , i . e . , he ne ed by he el .
we ne he ic og ds as he og io of he ty ss ed to he ue er to he ty ss
ds ut es in et re d; my as ed by ng he um er ll es of ds .
to le ds in he me et ( e . g .
ht nd le ) , he ty on as ed at 23 .
el er of 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . ic og er of ts ! 23 ! 23 ! 23 ! 23 ! 23 ! 23 ! 23 . hn cy ft dy ve og 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . ew rk 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . 23 . el ic og er of 23 re 23 : he ic og ds ( on 23 ) or he ee ls on wo ra .
er is er .
gh tm ly es a er ve od an he er ls ( le 23 ) , he cs it rs re st en ed st an ts .
d = ( ( id : 23 )
s og m
d , og m
ed to he er ed by he ct ,
d , he er he ce en he ts of he el d is 23
is is ed en he ts se
he er he ue of om nd he ts .
he er nd on om rs th a re on no er an he ue rs .
re 23 ws ts of he ic og ds or he ee ls .
as th el on , da nd si ly rm tm .
in , is nd ns er to ms or ce on ve od .
a am of he lo of al ia ts is en in re 23 ( ht ) or he ty - ic da el .
ts ut ry ic , us ts , ch as dy op , ve gh lo se it is sy or th ns nd he el to gn he nt to a ar ic .
en ts ss le te cs , an ts ge om se of he el .
at he ow nd of he le is he le ok ch es on se as ch as ry , ce , nd ce .
it is lt or da to in wn ic es in is le ch ch an ns .
re 23 ( om ow ) ws at , as th el on , ng ve od es ot ly ed ic og ds es .
le he ic og ds re ly nt ss ll rs of cs or da nd si , or tm ic og ds nd ve od re ly ed , ng he ng on at er ve ds do ot ad to ed el ty .
we ed he st on of he ed ce nd ce of ic ls ng an ts .
or ee ic ls , we ed at al cs do ot re er cs re nt or ot .
al cs re , ed , ly ed th he es of ic ty ed in is er .
ur es le ew ms of el on nd st at rs ng ic ls ld us us on ns at nd on al - ld sk ce er an ng od - ed es .
in a re ve in , is rk es he se of cs or us on nd on al .
ns te he ic ce of cs nd an te he me ts th a ic at a ic el es .
an ng ty is he nt of ls at ly ek to ze he es we op re er by ng an ts to he el - ng rk or ng a al xy at es an ts .
id m .
ei is ed by nr 23 - 23 , sf er 23 nd ts om le nd ft .
we ld so ke to nk an on or is ul ts .
