ion .
rge ons of nts are ily ble on - ine and ely sed by rse ies .
as a ble ple , hol - rly les are gly hed in nic orm , and cal ves are ing ned and ade ble .
the not - for - rot ion tor ( www . tor . org ) is tly one of the ing ers of als to the hol - rly ity .
ese ves are ted by ing old als and ing an cal ter zer ver the ges .
tor des the nal ans on - ine , and ses eir isy ion of the ext to ort ord rch .
nce the ata are ely red and ise ons of les ing cen - ies of rly ork , ted sis is ial .
the ent of new ols for ing , ing and ing the ive use of uch ves is hus an ant cal nge , and des new ies for
ved rch 23; sed ril 123
ted in art by nsf nts iis - 123 and iis - 123 , the rpa alo ect and
a ant rom gle .
ary ial and ode are ble at ttp : / / tat . org / oas / nts key rds and ses .
cal els , ate ior nce , nal eth -
ods , ext sis .
lei and j .
rty
the cal sis of nts has a ion hat oes ack at ast to the sis of the ist ers by ler and ace ( 123 ) .
but ent ing kes on new ons ith ive lti - hor ons uch as the rge ves hat now are ing ade ble by tor , gle and her ses .
in his per we der pic els of uch ons , by ich we ean ent ble els of nts hat oit the ons ong the rds and ent tic mes .
pic els can act gly ter - ble and ful ure out any cit ing of the age by ter .
in his per we ent the ted pic del ( ctm ) , ich tly els the ion een the ent ics in the ion , and les the ion of pic phs and ent ers hat low a ser to ate the ion in a pic - ded ner .
the ain ion of his del hat we ent is an sis of the js - tor ive for the nal nce .
his nal was ded in 123 by mas son and ues as one of the ost ial tic als day .
the ety of ial in the nal , as ell as the rge ber of les ing ver ore han 123 ars , tes the eed for ted ods , and the ial for cal pic els to ide an aid for ing the ion .
the ted pic del lds on the ier ent let ion ( lda ) del of lei , ng and dan ( 123 ) , ich is an nce of a ral ily of xed hip els for ing ata nto ple ent nts .
lda mes hat the rds of ach ent ise rom a ure of ics , ere ach pic is a ial ver a xed ord ary .
the ics are red by all nts in the ion , but the pic ons ary sti - lly oss nts , as hey are mly awn rom a let ion .
ent ork has sed lda as a ing ock in ore ted pic els , uch as hor - ent els ( 123 , 123 ) , act - nce els ( 123 ) tax - ics els ( 123 ) and age - ion els ( 123 ) .
the ame ind of ing ols ave lso een sed in a ety of ext ngs , uch as age ess - ing ( 123 , 123 ) , ion ems ( 123 ) , the ing of ser les ( 123 ) and the ing of ork ata ( 123 ) .
lar els ere tly ped for ity vey ata ( 123 , 123 ) and ion ics ( 123 ) .
in the nce of the ion val ure , lda is a bag of rds del .
his ans hat the rds of the nts are med to be nge - ble hin hem , and lei , ng and dan ( 123 ) ate lda rom his ion ith de tis ity rem .
as a nce , els ike lda ent nts as ors of ord nts in a ery igh nal ace , ing the der in ich the rds ear .
ile it is ant to ain the act nce of rds for ing ion , the lly tic ity ion is ial to ent hms for lly ing the oad tic mes in a ion .
the ing int for our sis ere is a ved ion of pic els uch as lda : hey ail to tly del ion een ics .
in ost ext
a ted pic del of nce
ora , it is ral to ect hat ets of the ing ent ics ill be hly ted .
in nce , for nce , an cle out ics may be ely to lso be out lth and ase , but ely to lso be out x - ray omy .
for the lda del , his ion ems rom the nce ons im - cit in the let ion on the pic ons .
der a let , the nts of the ons tor are rly ent , ich ads to the ong and tic ing ion hat the nce of one pic is not ted ith the nce of her .
the ctm ces the let by the ore ble tic mal ion , ich tes a nce ruc - ure ong the nts ( 123 ) .
his ves a ore tic del of the ent pic ure ere the nce of one ent pic may be ted ith the nce of her .
ver , the ity to del ion een ics ces ome of the nal ces hat lda rds .
lly , the acy een the ial and let tes ard ate ior in - nce in lda .
hat acy is ost hen the let is ced ith a gis - tic mal .
ard ion ues uch as bbs ing are no ger ble , and ngs sed cmc ing is ive due to the ale and igh ion of the ata .
hus , we lop a ast nal nce ure for ing out rox - ate nce ith the ctm del .
nal nce ( 123 , 123 ) des the un - sed tes of cmc res for lly sed but lly ent hms ose cal nce is asy to ess .
nal nce hms ave een ive in lda for ing rge ent ons ( 123 ) .
we end eir use to the ctm .
the est of his per is zed as ows .
we rst ent the ted pic del and uss its ing ing ons .
hen , we ent an ine of the nal ach to nce ( the cal ils are col - ted in the dix ) and the nal ion ure for ter ion .
lly , we yze the nce of the del on the tor nce ata .
ely , we how hat it ves a ter t han lda , as red by the acy of the ive ons ver eld out nts .
ely , we ent an sis of all of nce rom 123 , ing les of lly ted les und ing the red ent ure , and pic phs hat are ted rom a rse ate of the nce ure of the del .
the per des ith a ief ion of the lts and ure ork hat it sts .
the ted pic del .
the ted pic del ( ctm ) is a hi - cal del of ent ons .
the ctm els the rds of ach ent rom a ure del .
the ure nts are red by all doc - nts in the on; the ure ons are ent - cic dom
lei and j .
rty
les .
the ctm ows ach ent to bit ple ics ith fer - ent ons .
it can hus ure the ity in ped ata hat bit ple ent rns .
we use the ing ogy and ion to ibe the ata , ent ari - les and ers in the ctm .
rds and nts .
the nly ble dom les hat we der are rds hat are zed nto nts .
let wd , n ote the nth ord in the dth ent , ich is an ent in a v - erm ary .
let wd ote the tor of nd rds ted ith ent d .
ics .
a pic is a ion ver the ary , a int on the v 123 lex .
the del ill ain k ics 123 : k .
pic nts .
ach ord is ach med awn rom one of the k ics .
the pic ent zd , n is ted ith the nth ord and dth ent .
pic ons .
lly , ach ent is ted ith a set of pic pro - ons d , ich is a int on the k 123 lex .
hus , d is a ion ver pic ces , and cts the ies ith ich rds are awn rom ach pic in the ion .
we ill lly der a ral ame - ion of his ial = log ( i / k ) .
lly , the ted pic del mes hat an n - ord ent ses rom the ing ive ess .
ven ics 123 : k , a k - tor and a k k nce rix : | ( , ) n ( , ) .
raw d 123
for n ( 123 , .
, nd ) : ( a ) raw pic ent zd , n|d rom ult ( f ( d ) ) .
( b ) raw ord wd , n| ( zd , n , 123 : k
) rom ult ( zd , n
ere f ( ) aps a ral ion of the pic ons to the ean
= f ( ) = exp ( ) i exp ( i ) .
( ote hat oes not dex a mal ial ily .
ing any ant to ill ult in an cal ean ter . ) his ess is ted as a tic cal del in ure 123
( a tic cal del is a aph ion of a ily of int ons ith a aph .
des ote dom es; ges ote ble ies een hem . )
the ctm lds on the ent let ion ( lda ) del ( 123 ) .
ent let ion mes a rly cal ive ess , but one ere the pic ons are awn rom a let .
in lda and its nts , the let is a lly ent ion ver pic ons be - use it is ate to the pic nts .
but , the let mes ear
a ted pic del of nce
top : tic cal del ion of the ted pic del .
the lo - tic mal ion , sed to del the ent pic ons of a ent , can ent ons een ics hat are ble to ure ing a let .
tom : ple den - ies of the tic mal on the 123 - lex .
rom eft : nal nce and ero - ean , ive ion een ics 123 and 123 , ive ion een ics 123 and 123
nce of the nts of the ons .
in act , one can ate a raw rom a let by ing rom k ent mma ons and ing the ing tor .
( ote hat ere is ght ive ion due to the int hat the nts sum to one . )
her han use a let , the ctm aws a eal ued dom tor rom a ate ian and hen aps it to the lex to ain a ial ara - ter .
his is the ing tic of the tic mal ion ( 123 ) .
the nce of the ian ces ies een the nts of the med dom ial tor , ing for a ral ern of ari - ity een its nts .
the tic mal was lly ied in the ext of ing ved nal ata , uch as the ons of min - als in cal les .
in the ctm , we use it to del the ent ion of ics ted ith ach ent .
the ack of ing the tic mal is hat it is not ate to the ial , ich tes the ing ate ior fer - nce ure .
the age , ver , is hat it des a ore ive ent del .
the ong nce ion sed by the let is not tic hen ing eal ent ons , ere one nds ong ons een the ent ics .
for ple , a ent out ogy is
lei and j .
rty
ore ely to lso be out ogy han ics .
we aim to use the ari - nce rix of the tic mal to ure uch ips .
in ion 123 we ate how the her der ure ven by the ari - nce can be sed as an ory ool for ter ing and ing a rge pus of nts .
ver , ing ion can ead to ter ive ons .
in ome ons , uch as tic ion ems , the oal is to ict een ems ned on a set of ons .
a let - sed del ill ict ems sed on the ent ics hat the ser - ons est , but the ctm ill ict ems ted ith nal ics hat are ted ith the lly ble ics .
ion ith the ted pic del .
we ess two com - nal ems hat ise hen ing the ted pic del to yze ata .
rst , ven a ion of ics and ion ver pic ons
( 123 : k , , ) , we ate the ior ion of the ent les con - ned on the rds of a ent p ( , z|w , 123 : k , , ) .
his ets us bed
wly ved nts nto the low nal ent tic ace hat the del nts .
we use a ast nal nce thm to ate his ior , ich ets us kly yze rge ent ons der ese ted ing ons .
ond , ven a ion of nts ( 123 , .
, wd ) , we nd mum ike - ood tes of the ics and the ing tic mal ion un - der the ing ons of the ctm .
we use a ant of the ion - ion thm , ere the e - tep is the per - ent ior nce lem bed ove .
ore , we eek rse ons of the rse nce rix een ics , and we apt ( cid : 123 ) 123 - zed nce ima - ion ( 123 ) for his ose .
ior nce ith nal ods .
ven a ent w and a
del ( 123 : k , , ) , the ior ion of the per - ent ent les
p ( , z|w , 123 : k , , )
123 p ( zn| ) p ( |zn , 123 : k ) 123 p ( zn| ) p ( |zn , 123 : k ) d
ich is ble to ute due to the ral in the tor , hat is , the nal ity of the ent hat we are ing on .
ere are two ons for his ity .
rst , the sum ver the k ues of zn urs ide the uct ver rds , ing a ial ber of rms .
ond , ven if k n ays hin the alm of nal ity , the ion of pic ons p ( | , ) is not ate to the ion of pic nts p ( zn| ) .
hus , we not lly ute the als of ach erm .
a ted pic del of nce
the acy her des ing any of the nte rlo kov ain ( cmc ) ing ues hat ave een ped for ing ith let - sed xed hip els ( 123 , 123 ) .
ese cmc ods are all sed on bbs ing , ere the acy een the ent les ets us ute ate - ise ors lly .
to loy cmc in the tic mal ing red ere , we ave to eal to a red lis ngs ion .
uch a que ill not joy the ame nce ies and eed of the bbs ers , ich is rly ing for the oal of ing ons hat ise ons of rds .
hus , to ate his ior , we eal to nal ods as a ter - tic ive to cmc .
the dea ind nal ods is to ize the ree ers of a ion ver the ent les so hat the rib - ion is ose in ler nce to the rue ior ( 123 , 123 ) .
the ted nal ion is hen sed as a ute for the ior , ust as the cal ion of les is sed in cmc .
nal ods ave had ead ion in ine ng; eir ial in ied ian ics is ing to be zed .
in els sed of ate - ial ily irs and res , the nal nce thm can be lly ved by ing pec - ons of ral ers in the nal ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ver , the ate air of les in the ctm res hat we ive the nal nce thm rom rst les .
we gin by ing ens ity to und the log ity of a ocu -
log p ( 123 : n| , , )
eq ( log p ( | , ) ) + n ( cid : 123 )
eq ( log p ( |zn , ) ) + h ( q ) ,
ere the ion is ken ith ect to q , a nal ion of the ent les , and h ( q ) tes the opy of hat ion .
as a nal ion , we use a lly zed del , ere all the les are pen - tly ned by a ent ion ,
q ( 123 : k , 123 : 123 : k , 123
q ( i|i , 123
123 : k , 123 : n ) = k ( cid : 123 )
the nal ons of the ete pic nts 123 : n are ied by the k - nal ial ers 123 : n ( ese are ean ers of the ial ) .
the nal ion of the ous les 123 : k
lei and j .
rty
are k ent ate ans ( i , i ) .
nce the nal ers are t ing a gle ved ent 123 : n , ere is no age in ing a nal nal nce rix .
the nal nce thm zes ion ( 123 ) ith ect to the nal ers , eby ing the und on the nal ity of the ons as uch as the ure of nal ion ows .
his is ent to ing the nal ion hat zes kl ( ||p ) , ere p is the rue ior ( 123 , 123 ) .
ils of his ion for the ctm are ven in the dix .
ote hat nal ods do not ome ith the ame cal ees as cmc , ere the ing ion of the ain is tly the ior of est .
ver , nal ods ide ast hms and a ear ver - nce ion , eas cmc ods can be lly ent and ing hen a kov ain has ged is ult ( 123 ) .
ter ion .
ven a ion of nts , we rry out pa - ter ion for the ted pic del by ing to ize the ood of a pus of nts as a ion of the ics 123 : k and the mul - ate ian ( , ) .
as in any ent ble els , we not ute the nal ood of the ata use of the ent ure hat eds to be zed out .
to ad - ess his sue , we use nal ion ( em ) .
in the e - tep of nal em , one tes the ior ion of the ent les ven the ata and ent del ers .
in nal em , we use the ria - nal ion to the ior bed in the ous ion .
ote hat his is kin to nte rlo em , ere the e - tep is ted by a nte rlo ion to the ior ( 123 ) .
ven by ing ion ( 123 ) ver the ent ion ( 123 , .
, wd ) , ( log p ( d , zd , wd| , , 123 : k ) ) + h ( qd ) .
lly , the ive ion of nal em is the ood und
; 123 : d ) d ( cid : 123 )
l ( , , 123 : k
the nal em thm is ate ent in his ive ion .
in the e - tep , we ize the und ith ect to the nal ers by ing nal nce for ach ent .
in the m - tep , we ize the und ith ect to the del ers .
his nts to mum eli - ood ion of the ics and ate ian ing ted ent ics , ere the ion is ken ith ect to the nal ibu - ons ted in the e - tep ,
a ted pic del of nce
( cid : 123 ) = 123 ( cid : 123 ) = 123
+ ( d ( cid : 123 ) ) ( d ( cid : 123 ) ) t ,
ere nd is the tor of ord nts for ent d .
the e - tep and m - tep are ted til the und on the ood con - ges .
in the sis ted low , we run nal nce til the rel - ive nge in the ity und of ion ( 123 ) is ess han 23% , and run nal em til the ive nge in the ood und is ess han
pic phs .
as een low , the ity of the ctm to del the rre - ion een ics lds a ter t of a ent ion han lda .
but the nce of the tic mal del for pic ons can lso be sed to ize the ips ong the ics .
in lar , the nce rix can be sed to orm a pic aph , ere the des ent ual ics , and ing des ent hly ted ics .
in uch ngs , it is ful to ave a ism to rol the ity of the aph .
all hat the aph ing the nce ons in a ian aph - cal del is ied by the ero ern in the rse nce rix .
ore ely , if x n ( , ) is a k - nal ate ian , and s = tes the rse nce rix , hen we orm a aph g ( ) = ( v , e ) ith ces v ing to the dom les 123 , .
, xk and ges e tis - ing ( s , t ) e if and nly if sst ( cid : 123 ) = 123
if n ( s ) = ( t : ( s , t ) e ) tes the set of ors of s in the aph , hen the nce ion xs |xn ( s ) lds for any ode u / n ( s ) hat is not a bor of s .
ent ork of sen and ann ( 123 ) ows how the sso ( 123 ) can be ted to ive an lly ent tor of the aph g ( ) .
the egy is to ess ach ble xs nto all of the her les , ing an ( cid : 123 ) 123 lty on the ers to age ity .
the ero nts hen rve as an ate of the ors of s in the aph .
in ore ail , let s = ( 123 , .
, sk ) rk be the ers of the sso t ned by ing xs nto ( xt ) t ( cid : 123 ) =s , ith the ter ss ing as the zed ept .
the ion lem is
( cid : 123 ) xs x\s s ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere x\s tes the set of les ith xs ced by the tor of all 23s , and \s tes the tor s ith ent ss ved .
the ted set of ors is hen
( cid : 123 ) s = arg min
( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) = ( t : ( cid : 123 ) st ( cid : 123 ) = 123 ) .
lei and j .
rty
( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) = n ( s ) ) 123 as the ple sen and ann ( 123 ) how hat p ( ize n ses , for a ble ice of the ion ter n ing log ( k ) .
ver , the nce is lly ast , and as a con - nce , if k = o ( nd ) ows nly lly ith ple ize , the ted aph is the rue aph ith ity ing one .
to apt the ann que to the ctm , all hat we es - ate the nce rix ing nal em , ere in the m - tep we ize the nal wer und ith ect to ion ted in the e - tep .
for a ven ent d , the nal ion to the ior of is a mal ith ean d rk .
we eat the zed ean ors ( d ) as ata , and ess ach ent nto the ers ith an ( cid : 123 ) 123 lty .
two ple res can be sed to hen orm the aph dge set , by ing the ion or ion of the cal ood tes :
( s , t ) and ( s , t ) eor
in ase t ( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) and s ( cid : 123 ) n ( t ) , in ase t ( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) or s ( cid : 123 ) n ( t ) .
ure 123 ows an ple of a pic aph ted ing his hod , ith ges and med by ing the ood tes .
ing the ion ter n ows rol ver the ity of the ph; the aph mes gly rse as n ses .
ing nce .
tor is an on - ine ive of rly als hat ans und mes ing ack to the 23s and uns cal ter gni - ion hms on the ans .
hus , tor res and xes eds of ons of ges of isy ext , all ble ugh the net .
his is an ble re - rce to ars .
the tor ion des an ity for ing ory sis and ful ive ics of rge mes of ext ata .
as hey are , the les are zed by nal , ume and ber .
but the ers of tor uld net rom a cal ion of les rom ent als and tic ons of lar les to ose own to be of est .
in ome ern nic rly ves , uch as the xiv ( ttp : / / www .
xiv . org / ) , ors ide eta - ata ith eir pts hat ibe and ize eir ork to aid in uch a cal ion of the ion .
in any ext ata ets , ver , eta - ata is ble .
ver , ere may be der - ing ics and ons een les hat the ors or ors ave not ned .
to ese nds , we zed a rge ion of ors pus of rti - les rom nce ith the ctm .
ive sis of nce .
in his ion we ate the ble ons of the ctm to tic pus sis and ing .
we ted a 123 - pic del on the nce les rom 123 to 123 ing the nal
a ion of the pic aph ned rom 123 , 123 ocr les rom nce ( 123 ) .
ach pic ode is led ith its ve ost ble ses and has ont nal to its ity in the pus .
( ses are und by ion est . ) the ull del can be und in ttp : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ mur / nce / and on lib .
lei and j .
rty
em thm of ion 123 .
( c ode hat nts his thm can be und at the rst ors web - ite and lib . ) the tal ary ize in his col - ion is 123 , 123 rms .
we rim the 123 , 123 rms hat red wer han 123 mes as ell as 123 top rds , hat is , rds ike the , but or ith , ich do not vey ing .
his lds a pus of 123 , 123 nts , 123 , 123 que rms and a tal of 23m rds .
ing the que bed in ion 123 , we ted a rse aph ( = 123 ) of the ons een the ted ent ics .
art of his aph is ted in ure 123
( for ace , we lly ved ics hat red ery ely and ose hat red cal ent uch as ont ter . ) his aph des a hot of ten ars of nce , and als ent ruc - res of mes in the ion .
a ser ted in the ain can ict ion to les hat use the nce cs; a ser ted in ics can ict ion to ose les in the ter of ics ics .
her ure is led at the ent vel , ere ach ent is as - ted ith a ent tor of pic ons .
the ior ion of the ons can be sed to ate nts ith ent ics .
for ple , the ing are the top ve les ted ith the pic ose ost ble ary ems are ser , cal , ght , ron , tum :
uum ing of ids : pic tum tes ven by
ght ses ( 123 ) .
ant igh ing rom a ein ate
ics and ice ons of cal ies ( 123 ) .
ton ber zed tes in tor ers ( 123 ) .
a ell - ted asi - ous tom ser ( 123 ) .
ver , we can use the ted nce een per - ent pic pro - ons to ify her nts hat ave lar cal ent .
we use the ted ger nce , ich is a ric nce een ons .
der two nts i and j , e ( d ( i , j ) ) = eq
= 123 123
ere all ons are ken ith ect to the nal ior tri - ons ( see ion 123 ) .
one ple of his ion of the ent ble sis is ted in ure 123
the ted der is ted to sit ttp : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ mur / nce / to ely ore his del , ing the ics , eir ons , the ar - les hat bit hem and the ted ger ity een les .
a ted pic del of nce
ing the ger nce to nd lar les to the ery cle ths lid ron ore may kew its tic eld .
ted are the top ree les by ger nce to the ery cle and the ted ior pic ons for ach cle .
ice hat ach ent how nes ogy and ics .
ive son to ent let ion .
we red the tic mal to the let by ing a ler ion of les to ctm and lda els of ing ers of ics .
his ion ins the 123 , 123 nts rom 23; we sed a ary of 123 , 123 rds ter ing mon ion rds and rms hat cur nce in the ion .
ing ten - old oss ion , we ted the log ity of the eld - out ata ven a del ted rom the ing ata .
a ter del of the ent ion ill ign her ity to the eld out ata .
to oid ing nds , we sed
lei and j .
rty
( eft ) the 123 - old oss - ted eld - out log ity of the 123 nce pus , ted by nce ing .
the ctm rts ore ics han lda .
see ure at ght for the ard ror of the nce .
( ght ) the ean nce in eld - out log ity .
ers ter han ero ate a ter t by the ctm .
nce ing to ute the log ity of a ent ere the ted nal ion is the sal .
ure 123 tes the age eld out log ity for ach del and the age nce een hem .
the ctm des a ter t han lda and rts ore cs; the ood for lda aks ear 123 ics , ile the ood for the ctm aks ose to 123 ics .
the ans and ard ors of the nce in log - ood of the els is own at ht; his tes hat the ctm ays ves a ter t .
her ive ion of the ive ths of lda and the ctm is how ell the els ict the ing rds of a ent ter ing a ion of it .
lly , we rve p rds rom a ent and are in - ted in ich del des a ter ive ion of the ing rds p ( 123 : p ) .
to are ese ons , we use ity , ich can be ght of as the ive ber of lly ely rds ing to the del .
lly , the ity of a ord ion is ned as the rse of the per - ord ric age of the ity of the ons ,
p ( wi| , 123 : p )
ere tes the del ers of an lda or ctm del .
ote hat wer ers ote ore ive wer .
the lot in ure 123 res the ive ity der lda and the ctm for ent ers of rds mly ved rom the nts .
a ted pic del of nce
( eft ) the 123 - old oss - ted ive ity for lly ved eld - out doc - nts rom the 123 nce pus ( k = 123 ) .
wer ers ate ore ive wer rom the ctm .
( ght ) the ean nce in ive ity .
ers ess han ero ate ter ion rom the ctm .
hen a all ber of rds ave een ved , ere is ess nty out the ing rds der the ctm han der the ity is ced by rly 123 rds , or hly 23% .
the son is hat ter ing a few rds in one pic , the ctm ses pic ion to fer hat rds in a ted pic may lso be ble .
in ast , lda not ict the ing rds as ell til a rge ion of the ent has een ved so hat all of its ics are
ary .
we ave ped a cal pic del of nts hat ces the let ion of per - ent pic ons ith a tic mal .
his ows the del to ure ons een the cur - nce of ent ics .
the ing ted pic del ves ter ive nce and ers ing ive ics for ing ows - ing and rch .
use of the tic mal , ile ore lex , may ave net in the any ons of let - sed xed hip els .
one sue hat we did not hly ore is del ion , hat is , oos - ing the ber of ics for a ion .
in her pic els , met - ric ian ods sed on the let ess are a ral ite of ols use hey can ate new ics as ore nts are ved .
( the ric ian ion of lda is tly the cal ich - let ess ( 123 ) . ) the tic mal , ver , oes not ely ive way to uch ons .
ing the del ion sue in his ing is an ant rea of ure rch .
lei and j .
rty
dix : ils of nal nce
nal ive .
ore ing the ion ure , we put the ive ion ion ( 123 ) in rms of the nal ers .
the rst
eq ( log p ( | , ) )
log 123 123
123 ) + ( ) t
the acy of the tic mal to ial ads to lty in ing the ond erm of ion ( 123 ) , the ted log ity of a pic
eq ( log p ( zn| ) ) = eq ( t zn ) eq
to rve the wer und on the log ity , we per und the ive log zer ith a lor ion :
123 + log ( ) ,
ing his nal und , the ond erm of ion ( 123 ) is
eq ( log p ( zn| ) ) = k ( cid : 123 )
ere we ave ced a new nal ter .
the ion eq ( exp ( i ) ) is the ean of a log mal ion ith ean and nce ob - i / 123 ) for ) : eq ( exp ( i ) ) = exp ( i + 123 ned rom the nal ers ( i , 123 i ( 123 , .
his is a ler ach han the ore ble , but ore com - lly ive , hod ken in ( 123 ) .
eq ( log p ( |zn , ) ) = k ( cid : 123 ) + log 123 + 123 ) n ( cid : 123 )
the rth erm is the opy of the nal ion :
the ird erm of ion ( 123 ) is
exp ( i + 123
+ 123 log .
n , i log i , wn .
n , i log n , i .
123 ( log 123
a ted pic del of nce
ote hat the nal nal ter is not ded to ute his
ate ent ion .
lly , we ize the und in qua - ion ( 123 ) ith ect to the nal ers 123 : k , 123 : k , 123 : n and .
we use a ate ent thm , ely ing the und ith ect to ach ter .
rst , we ize ion ( 123 ) ith ect to , ing the ond und in
ion ( 123 ) .
the ive ith ect to is exp ( i + 123
( ) = n
ich has a mum at
exp ( i + 123
ond , we ize ith ect to n .
his lds a mum at
i ( 123 ,
n , i exp ( i ) i , wn ,
ich is an ion of nal nce tes hin the ial ily ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ird , we ize ith ect to i .
ion ( 123 ) is not ble to tic
123 ( ) + n ( cid : 123 )
ion .
we use the ate ent thm ith ive n , 123 : k ( n / ) exp ( + 123 / 123 ) .
lly , we ize ith ect to 123 use ons hod for ach ate ith the int hat i > 123 ,
ii / 123 n / 123 exp ( i + 123
i / 123 ) + 123 / ( 123
ain , ere is no tic ion
ing een the ons of , , and nes a ate ent thm on ion ( 123 ) .
( in ice , we ize ith ect to in een ons for , and . ) ugh ach tes ion is vex , the nal ive is not vex ith ect to the ble of nal ers .
we are nly eed to nd a cal mum , but ote hat his is ill a und on the log ity of a ent .
nts .
we ank two ous ers for eir ent ons for ing the per .
we ank tor for ing ess to nal ial in the tor ive .
we ank jon ffe and han bro for ful ons and nts .
a ary ion of his ork ars
lei and j .
rty
