we propose the hierarchical dirichlet process ( hdp ) , a nonparametric bayesian model for clustering problems involving multiple groups of data .
each group of data is modeled with a mixture , with the number of components being open - ended and inferred automatically by the model .
further , components can be shared across groups , allowing dependencies across groups to be modeled effectively as well as conferring generaliza - tion to new groups .
such grouped clustering problems occur often in practice , e . g .
in the problem of topic discovery in document corpora .
we report experimental results on three text corpora showing the effective and superior performance of the hdp over previous models .
one of the most signicant conceptual and practical tools in the bayesian paradigm is the notion of a hierarchical model .
building on the notion that a parameter is a random variable , hierarchical models have applications to a variety of forms of grouped or relational data and to general problems involving multi - task learning or learning to learn .
a simple and classical example is the gaussian means problem , in which a grand mean 123 is drawn from some distribution , a set of k means are then drawn independently from a gaussian with mean 123 , and data are subsequently drawn independently from k gaussian distributions with these means .
the posterior distribution based on these data couples the means , such that posterior estimates of the means are shrunk towards each other .
the estimates share statistical strength , a notion that can be made precise within both the bayesian and the frequentist paradigms .
here we consider the application of hierarchical bayesian ideas to a problem in multi - task learning in which the tasks are clustering problems , and our goal is to share clusters among multiple , related clustering problems .
we are motivated by the task of discovering topics in document corpora ( 123 ) .
a topic ( i . e . , a cluster ) is a distribution across words while documents are viewed as distributions across topics .
we want to discover topics that are common across multiple documents in the same corpus , as well as across multiple corpora .
our work is based on a tool from nonparametric bayesian analysis known as the dirichlet process ( dp ) mixture model ( 123 , 123 ) .
skirting technical denitions for now , nonparametric
can be understood simply as implying that the number of clusters is open - ended .
indeed , at each step of generating data points , a dp mixture model can either assign the data point to a previously - generated cluster or can start a new cluster .
the number of clusters is a random variable whose mean grows at rate logarithmic in the number of data points .
extending the dp mixture model framework to the setting of multiple related clustering problems , we will be able to make the ( realistic ) assumption that we do not know the number of clusters a priori in any of the problems , nor do we know how clusters should be shared among the problems .
when generating a new cluster , a dp mixture model selects the parameters for the cluster ( e . g . , in the case of gaussian mixtures , the mean and covariance matrix ) from a distribution g123the base distribution .
so as to allow any possible parameter value , the distribution g123 is often assumed to be a smooth distribution ( i . e . , non - atomic ) .
unfortunately , if we now wish to extend dp mixtures to groups of clustering problems , the assumption that g123 is smooth conicts with the goal of sharing clusters among groups .
that is , even if each group shares the same underlying base distribution g123 , the smoothness of g123 implies that they will generate distinct cluster parameters ( with probability one ) .
we will show that this problem can be resolved by taking a hierarchical bayesian approach .
we present a notion of a hierarchical dirichlet process ( hdp ) in which the base distribution g123 for a set of dps is itself a draw from a dp .
this turns out to provide an elegant and simple solution to the problem of sharing clusters among multiple clustering problems .
the paper is organized as follows .
in section 123 , we provide the basic technical denition of dps and discuss related representations involving stick - breaking processes and chinese restaurant processes .
section 123 then introduces the hdp , motivated by the requirement of a more powerful formalism for the grouped data setting .
as for the dp , we present analogous stick - breaking and chinese restaurant representations for the hdp .
we present empirical results on a number of text corpora in section 123 , demonstrating various aspects of the hdp including its nonparametric nature , hierarchical nature , and the ease with which the framework can be applied to other realms such as hidden markov models .
123 dirichlet processes
the dirichlet process ( dp ) and the dp mixture model are mainstays of nonparametric bayesian statistics ( see , e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
they have also begun to be seen in applications in ma - chine learning ( e . g . , ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) .
in this section we give a brief overview with an eye towards generalization to hdps .
we begin with the denition of dps ( 123 ) .
let ( , b ) be a measur - able space , with g123 a probability measure on the space , and let 123 be a positive real number .
a dirichlet process is the distribution of a random probability measure g over ( , b ) such that , for any nite partition ( a123 , .
, ar ) of , the random vector ( g ( a123 ) , .
, g ( ar ) ) is distributed as a nite - dimensional dirichlet distribution :
( g ( a123 ) , .
, g ( ar ) ) dir ( cid : 123 ) 123g123 ( a123 ) , .
, 123g123 ( ar ) ( cid : 123 ) .
we write g dp ( 123 , g123 ) if g is a random probability measure distributed according to a dp .
we call g123 the base measure of g , and 123 the concentration parameter .
the dp can be used in the mixture model setting in the following way .
consider a set of data , x = ( x123 , .
, xn ) , assumed exchangeable .
given a draw g dp ( 123 , g123 ) , independently draw n latent factors from g : i g .
then , for each i = 123 , .
, n , draw xi f ( i ) , for a distribution f .
this setup is referred to as a dp mixture model .
if the factors i were all distinct , then this setup would yield an ( uninteresting ) mixture model with n components .
in fact , the dp exhibits an important clustering property , such that the draws i are generally not distinct .
rather , the number of distinct values grows as o ( log n ) , and it is this that denes the random number of mixture components .
there are several perspectives on the dp that help to understand this clustering property .
in this paper we will refer to two : the chinese restaurant process ( crp ) , and the stick - breaking process .
the crp is a distribution on partitions that directly captures the cluster - ing of draws from a dp via a metaphor in which customers share tables in a chinese restau - rant ( 123 ) .
as we will see in section 123 , the crp refers to properties of the joint distribution of the factors ( i ) .
the stick - breaking process , on the other hand , refers to properties of g , and directly reveals its discrete nature ( 123 ) .
for k = 123 , 123 .
. , let :
k beta ( 123 , 123 )
then with probability one the random measure dened by g = p
l=123 ( 123 123 k=123 kk is a sample from dp ( 123 , g123 ) .
the construction for 123 , 123 , .
in ( 123 ) can be understood as taking a stick of unit length , and repeatedly breaking off segments of length k .
the stick - breaking construction shows that dp mixture models can be viewed as mixture models with a count - ably innite number of components .
to see this , identify each k as the parameter of the kth mixture component , with mixing proportion given by k .
k = 123
123 hierarchical dirichlet processes
we will introduce the hierarchical dirichlet process ( hdp ) in this section .
first we de - scribe the general setting in which the hdp is most usefulthat of grouped data .
we assume that we have j groups of data , each consisting of nj data points ( xj123 , .
, xjnj ) .
we assume that the data points in each group are exchangeable , and are to be modeled with a mixture model .
while each mixture model has mixing proportions specic to the group , we require that the different groups share the same set of mixture components .
the idea is that while different groups have different characteristics given by a different combination of mixing proportions , using the same set of mixture components allows statistical strength to be shared across groups , and allows generalization to new groups .
the hdp is a nonparametric prior which allows the mixture models to share components .
it is a distribution over a set of random probability measures over ( , b ) : one probability measure gj for each group j , and a global probability measure g123
the global measure g123 is distributed as dp ( , h ) , with h the base measure and the concentration parameter , while each gj is conditionally independent given g123 , with distribution gj dp ( 123 , g123 ) .
to complete the description of the hdp mixture model , we associate each xji with a factor ji , with distributions given by f ( ji ) and gj respectively .
the overall model is given in figure 123 left , with conditional distributions :
g123 | , h dp ( , h )
gj | , g123 dp ( 123 , g123 )
ji | gj gj
xji | ji f ( ji ) .
sum of point masses : g123 = p
the stick - breaking construction ( 123 ) shows that a draw of g123 can be expressed as a weighted k=123 kk .
this fact that g123 is atomic plays an important role in ensuring that mixture components are shared across different groups .
since g123 is the base distribution for the individual gjs , ( 123 ) again shows that the atoms of the individual gj are samples from g123
in particular , since g123 places non - zero mass only on the atoms
k=123 , the atoms of gj must also come from , hence we may write :
identifying k as the parameters of the kth mixture component , we see that each submodel corresponding to distinct groups share the same set of mixture components , but have dif - fering mixing proportions , j = ( jk ) finally , it is useful to explicitly describe the relationships between the mixing proportions j=123
details are provided in ( 123 ) .
note that the weights j are conditionally in - dependent given since each gj is independent given g123
applying ( 123 ) to nite partitions
k=123 jkk .
figure 123 : left : graphical model of an example hdp mixture model with 123 groups .
corresponding to each dp node we also plot a sample draw from the dp using the stick - breaking construction .
right : an instantiation of the crf representation for the 123 group hdp .
each of the 123 restaurants has customers sitting around tables , and each table is served a dish ( which corresponds to customers in the chinese restaurant for the global dp ) .
of , we get j dp ( 123 , ) , where we interpret and j as probability measures over the positive integers .
hence is simply the putative mixing proportion over the groups .
we may in fact obtain an explicit stick - breaking construction for the js as well .
applying ( 123 ) to partitions ( ( 123 , .
, k 123 ) , ( k ) , ( k + 123 , .
. ) ) of positive integers , we have :
jk beta ( cid : 123 ) 123k , 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 pk
jk = 123
l=123 ( 123 123
123 the chinese restaurant franchise
we describe an alternative view of the hdp based directly upon the distribution a hdp in - duces on the samples ji , where we marginalize out g123 and gjs .
this view directly leads to an efcient gibbs sampler for hdp mixture models , which is detailed in the appendix .
consider , for one group j , the distribution of j123 , .
, jnj as we marginalize out gj .
re - call that since gj dp ( 123 , g123 ) we can describe this distribution by describing how to generate j123 , .
, jnj using the crp .
imagine nj customers ( each corresponds to a ji ) at a chinese restaurant with an unbounded number of tables .
the rst customer sits at the rst table .
a subsequent customer sits at an occupied table with probability proportional to the number of customers already there , or at the next unoccupied table with probability proportional to 123
suppose customer i sat at table tji .
the conditional distributions are :
tji | tj123 , .
, tji123 , 123 xt
pt123 njt123 +123
pt123 njt123 +123
where njt is the number of customers currently at table t .
once all customers have sat down the seating plan corresponds to a partition of j123 , .
, jnj .
this is an exchangeable pro - cess in that the probability of a partition does not depend on the order in which customers sit down .
now we associate with table t a draw jt from g123 , and assign ji = jtji .
performing this process independently for each group j , we have now integrated out all the gjs , and have an assignment of each ji to a sample jtji from g123 , with the partition structures given by crps .
notice now that all jts are simply i . i . d .
draws from g123 , which is again distributed according to dp ( , h ) , so we may apply the same crp partitioning process to the jts .
let the customer associated with jt sit at table kjt .
we have :
kjt | k123 , .
, k123n123 , k123 , .
, kjt123 , xk
pk123 mjk123 + k +
pk123 mk123 +123
perplexity on test abstacts of lda and hdp mixture
posterior over number of topics in hdp mixture
number of lda topics
123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
number of topics
figure 123 : left : comparison of lda and hdp mixture .
results are averaged over 123 runs , with error bars being 123 standard error .
right : histogram of the number of topics the hdp mixture used over 123
finally we associate with table k a draw k from h and assign jt = kjt .
this completes the generative process for the jis , where we marginalize out g123 and gjs .
we call this generative process the chinese restaurant franchise ( crf ) .
the metaphor is as follows : we have j restaurants , each with nj customers ( jis ) , who sit at tables ( jts ) .
now each table is served a dish ( ks ) from a menu common to all restaurants .
the customers are sociable , prefering large tables with many customers present , and also prefer popular dishes .
we describe 123 experiments in this section to highlight the various aspects of the hdp : its nonparametric nature; its hierarchical nature; and the ease with which we can apply the framework to other models , specically the hmm .
nematode biology abstracts .
to demonstrate the strength of the nonparametric approach as exemplied by the hdp mixture , we compared it against latent dirichlet allocation ( lda ) , which is a parametric model similar in structure to the hdp ( 123 ) .
in particular , we applied both models to a corpus of nematode biology abstracts123 , evaluating the per - plexity of both models on held out abstracts .
here abstracts correspond to groups , words correspond to observations , and topics correspond to mixture components , and exchange - ability correspond to the typical bag - of - words assumption .
in order to study specically the nonparametric nature of the hdp , we used the same experimental setup for both models123 , except that in lda we had to vary the number of topics used between 123 and 123 , while the hdp obtained posterior samples over this automatically .
the results are shown in figure 123
lda performs best using between 123 and 123 topics , while the hdp performed just as well as these .
further , the posterior over the number of topics used by hdp is consistent with this range .
notice however that the hdp infers the number of topics automatically , while lda requires some method of model selection .
nips sections .
we applied hdp mixture models to a dataset of nips 123 - 123 papers orga - nized into sections123
to highlight the transfer of learning achievable with the hdp , we
123available at http : / / elegans . swmed . edu / wli / cgcbib .
there are 123 abstracts in total .
after removing standard stop words and words appearing less than 123 times , we are left with 123 words in total and a vocabulary size of 123
123in both models , we used a symmetric dirichlet distribution with weights of 123 for the prior h over topic distributions , while the concentration parameters are integrated out using a vague gamma prior .
gibbs sampling using the crf is used , while the concentration parameters are sampled using a method described in ( 123 ) .
this also applies to the nips sections experiment on next page .
123to ensure we are dealing with informative words in the documents , we culled stop words as well
average perplexity over nips sections of 123 models
generalization from lt , aa , ap to vs
m123 : additional sction ignored m123 : flat , additional section m123 : hierarchical , additional section
number of vs training documents
number of vs training documents
figure 123 : left : perplexity of test vs documents given training documents from vs and another section for 123 different models .
curves shown are averaged over the other sections and 123 runs .
right : perplexity of test vs documents given lt , aa and ap documents respectively , using m123 , averaged over 123 runs .
in both , the error bars are 123 standard error .
show improvements to the modeling of a section when the model is also given documents from another section .
our test section is always the vs ( vision sciences ) section , while the additional section is varied across the other eight .
the training set always consist of 123 documents from the other section ( so that larger sections like aa ( algorithms and ar - chitecures ) do not get an unfair advantage ) , plus between 123 and 123 documents from vs .
there are 123 test documents , which are held xed as we vary over the other section and the number n of training vs documents .
we compared 123 different models for this task .
the rst model ( m123 ) simply ignores documents from the additional section , and uses a hdp to model the vs documents .
it serves as a baseline .
the second model ( m123 ) uses a hdp mix - ture model , with one group per document , but lumping together training documents from both sections .
the third model ( m123 ) takes a hierarchical approach and models each section separately using a hdp mixture model , and places another dp prior over the common base distributions for both submodels123
as we see in figure 123 left , the more hierarchical approach of m123 performs best , with per - plexity decreasing drastically with modest values of n , while m123 does worst for small n .
however with increasing n , m123 improves until it is competitive with m123 but m123 does worst .
this is because m123 lumps all the documents together , so is not able to differentiate between the sections , as a result the inuence of documents from the other section is un - duly strong .
this result conrms that the hierarchical approach to the transfer - of - learning problem is a useful one , as it allows useful information to be transfered to a new task ( here the modeling of a new section ) , without the data from the previous tasks overwhelming those in the new task .
we also looked at the performance of the m123 model on vs documents given specic other sections .
this is shown in figure 123 right .
as expected , the performance is worst given lt ( learning theory ) , and improves as we move to aa and ap ( applications ) .
in table 123 we show the topics pertinent to vs discovered by the m123 model .
first we trained the model on all documents from the other section .
then , keeping the assignments of words to topics xed in the other section , we introduced vs documents and the model decides to reuse some topics from the other section , as well as create new ones .
the topics reused by vs documents conrm to our expectations of the overlap between vs and other sections .
as words occurring more than 123 or less than 123 times in the documents .
as sections differ over the years , we assigned by hand the various sections to one of 123 prototypical sections : cs , ns , lt , aa , im , sp , vs , ap and cn .
123though we have only described the 123 layer hdp the 123 layer extension is straightforward .
in fact on our website http : / / www . cs . berkeley . edu / ywteh / research / npbayes we have an implementation of the general case where dps are coupled hierarchically in a tree - structured model .
table 123 : topics shared between vs and the other sections .
shown are the two topics with most numbers of vs words , but also with signicant numbers of words from the other section .
ii tree pomdp
target chip eye
form point see
alice in wonderland .
the innite hidden markov model ( ihmm ) is a nonparametric model for sequential data where the number of hidden states is open - ended and inferred from data ( 123 ) .
in ( 123 ) we show that the hdp framework can be applied to obtain a cleaner formulation of the ihmm , providing effective new inference algorithms and potentially hi - erarchical extensions .
in fact the original ihmm paper ( 123 ) served as inspiration for this work and rst coined the term hierarchical dirichlet processesthough their model is not hierarchical in the bayesian sense , involving priors upon priors , but is rather a set of coupled urn models similar to the crf .
here we report experimental comparisons of the ihmm against other approaches on sentences taken from lewis carrolls alices adven - tures in wonderland .
perplexity on test sentences of alice
number of hidden states
figure 123 : comparing ihmm ( horizontal line ) versus ml , map and vb trained hmms .
er - ror bars are 123 standard error ( those for ihmm too small to see ) .
ml , map , and variational bayesian ( vb ) ( 123 ) models with numbers of states rang - ing from 123 to 123 were trained multiple times on 123 sentences of average length 123 symbols ( 123 distinct symbols , consist - ing of 123 letters and ) , and tested on 123 sequences of average length 123
fig - ure 123 shows the perplexity of test sen - tences .
for vb , the predictive probability is intractable to compute , so the modal set - ting of parameters was used .
both map and vb models were given optimal set - tings of the hyperparameters found in the ihmm .
we see that the ihmm has a lower perlexity than every model size for ml , map , and vb , and obtains this with one countably innite model .
we have described the hierarchical dirichlet process , a hierarchical , nonparametric model for clustering problems involving multiple groups of data .
hdp mixture models are able to automatically determine the appropriate number of mixture components needed , and exhibit sharing of statistical strength across groups by having components shared across groups .
we have described the hdp as a distribution over distributions , using both the stick - breaking construction and the chinese restaurant franchise .
in ( 123 ) we also describe a fourth perspective based on the innite limit of nite mixture models , and give detail for
how the hdp can be applied to the ihmm .
direct extensions of the model include use of nonparametric priors other than the dp , building higher level hierarchies as in our nips experiment , as well as hierarchical extensions to the ihmm .
appendix : gibbs sampling in the crf the crf is dened by the variables t = ( tji ) , k = ( kjt ) , and = ( k ) .
we describe an inference procedure for the hdp mixture model based on gibbs sampling t , k and given data items x .
for the full derivation see ( 123 ) .
let f ( | ) and h be the density functions for f ( ) and h respectively , ni the number of kj 123t123s equal to k except kjt .
the conditional probability for tji given the other variables is proportional to the product of a prior and likelihood term .
the prior term is given by ( 123 ) where , by exchangeability , we can take tji to be the last one assigned .
the likelihood is given by f ( xji|kjt ) where for t = tnew we may sample kjtnew using ( 123 ) , and knew h .
the distribution is then :
jt be the number of tji123 s equal to t except tji , and mjt
p ( tji = t | t\tji , k , , x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123f ( xji|kjt )
jt f ( xji|kjt )
if t = tnew if t currently used .
similarly the conditional distributions for kjt and k are :
p ( kjt = k | t , k\kjt , , x ) ( qi : tji =t f ( xji|k ) k qi : tji=t f ( xji|k )
p ( k | t , k , \k , x ) h ( k ) yji : kjtji =k
if k = knew if k currently used .
where knew h .
if h is conjugate to f ( ) we have the option of integrating out .
