in mo of th en ha an im ro to pl in ad - ti sy in ge an ar of pa im fo th su le pa .
in th pa we de th ce cl pr - le as wi th no of th te " in su le ca be so by ju us of le in mo as co of th ad - ti sy .
in pa , we sh ho su le al ca be ut in ca in wh an un dy sy in be ac an de ou .
ou ap ap to an su le al th is ca of le in mu - la ne .
*t pa is a re ve of mi ce fo co sc oc pa .
we wi to th mi mo , an ba , ro ja , er lo , an ja mc fo he co on th ma .
th pr wa su in pa by br s rr - aw by th bi re - se su gr pr , di of re re , na in of he , by a gr fr at au an vi pe re la - to , by a gr fr si co , by a gr fr th hu fr sc pr , an by gr n - - j - aw by th oc of na
re wo on le al fo co ne ha se a pr - gr we of th as ma ab th re be th le an th en .
cl su le al su as th pe ro , an th lm al wi & ho , ma tw st as : th ou un ar th on ad un in th ne , an th is a te " th pr de st fo al of th ou un .
ea in th de of su al it wa re th mo po su le al co be re by we th rs as an in in un th ad re th in re pr by th en ro , .
th su de of al su as bo le hi & se , an ba le , ; pa , ; ru , hi , & wi , ; we , ha pr th me fo tr ne wi ad no in un .
th se as ha al be we al th re no ex te ha be de be & hi , ; gr , ; ko , ; li , ; ru & zi , .
su un " le al ge pe so so of cl or fe ex on th in da an ar ba on as ab th st or to pr of th in en .
in th pa we ex in so de th no of th te " in th su le pa .
we ar th th te is le of a li th ha co be as an th th as th th en pr de st fo th ou of th ne ca be we si wi ab th su le pa al .
in , we fe th an ap in of th ro of th te is cr in ap th ra of pr to wh th pa ca be ap .
th is th we wi to ad is be il by wa of an ex .
co a sk - le ta su as th fa by a ba pl le to sh ba .
th pr fo th le is to nd th ap mu co to pr th ba to th go .
di co ar ap fo di lo of th go in th vi sc th , a ma fr vi sc to mu co is re .
wh le al mi un th ac of su a ma ? cl , cl or fe ex on th vi in is no su .
mo , it is di to se ho to ap cl su al to th pr , be th is no te to pr mu co as ta to th le .
th on ta in pr to th le is in te of th ou of th mo th is , th si an so of a ba pa th th go .
th ge sc su by th ex is sh in fi .
in ar pr as in to th le sy .
th le tr in in ac , wh ar tr by th en in ou .
ac ar pr va th is , va th th le co di , wh
fi : th di su le pr .
ta va ar av fo th di va th ou " bu no fo th pr va th ac " .
ou ar di va , va th th le co in th th in of th pr va .
du th le pr , ta va ar as to be av fo th di va bu no fo th pr va .
th , fr a po of vi ou th le sy , a di su le ta " is a ma fr in to de ou .
fr th po of vi of th le , ho , th pr is to nd a ma fr in to ac th ca be co wi th en to yi de di ou .
th le mu di ho to va th co of th pr ac ve so as to mi th co of th di er .
th di su le pr al ha a te co .
in ma en th ee of ac ar no pu an in , bu ra li on an mi wi th ee of ot ac .
th th ou at an po in ti is in by an of a nu of pr ac .
ev if th ex a se of va th ha a st re to de ou , th le of do no ha di co ov th va .
co ag th ex of th ba pl .
al th ig of th ba de on on th ve of th ar at th mo of re st re is un th th mo co sy is ab to co re ve di .
ra , th sy ou fo or to , an th va do no ha a st re to th di ou .
in th re of th pa we de a ge ap to so th di - ta su le pr .
th ap is ba on th id th su le in it mo ge fo is a tw - ph pr .
in th rs ph th le fo a pr in mo a fo mo of th tr fr ac to di ou .
be su tr ar of no kn a pr , th in mo mu ge be le by ex th ou as wi pa ch of ac .
th au le pr is it - se a su le pr , ba on th er be in , pr ou an ac ou .
on th in mo ha be at le pa - ti le , it ca be us in an in ma to so fo th ma fr
in to ac .
th id of us an in mo to au th ca of su le al ha al be pr by we , al hi pe - ti di in ce re fr ou ow .
th ha be a nu of fu de of th id ka , ; mi , ; mu , ; ng & wi , ; ro & fa , ; sc , , ba ei on th wo of we or ou ow un wo jo , ; ru , .
th ar al cl ti be ou ap an te in op co th ki , an ad co th go & si , ; na & pa , .
we di se of th re in th re of th pa , al we do no at to be co .
di su le an fo mo
th se an th fo se pr a ge ap to so di su le pr .
we be by de ou as ab th en an th le .
we as th th en ca be ch by a ne - st fu f an an ou fu g .
at ti st n ( ci : 12 ) th le pr an ac un ( ci : 12 ) .
in co wi th st of th en xn ( ci : 12 ) th ac de th ne st xn :
xn = f xn ( ci : 12 ) ; un ( ci : 12 ) :
co to ea st xn th is al a se yn :
yn = gx :
no th se ar ou ve in th cu fo " in th la of th in se .
th ne - st fu an th ou fu to de a st - de ma fr ac to se .
in th cu pa we as th th le ha ac to th st of th en we do no ad is re to st re an st es .
st re mi in de va of pr ac an se lj & so , , or th mi in in st va th ar in as pa of th le pr mo & ba , .
gi th st xn ( ci : 12 ) an gi th in pn ( ci : 12 ) , th le pr an ac un ( ci : 12 ) :
un ( ci : 12 ) = hx ( ci : 12 ) ; pn ( ci : 12 ) :
th ch of ti in in eq , , an is ba on ou fo on th ou at ti n .
in ou fr a le al al yn ba on pr va of th st , in ,
fi : th co pe sy co of th le an th en .
th sy is a ma fr in pn ( ci : 12 ) to se yn .
th tr da fp ( ci : 12 ) ; y i ng sp de in be ac th co sy .
no th th is an im lo wi th en su th th ou at ti n de on th st at ti n ( ci : 12 ) cf .
eq .
a di su le pr is a se of tr pa fp ( ci : 12 ) ; y
th go of th le pr is to ma ap ad to th in - to - ac ma h ba on da ob fr in wi th en .
wh pi ( ci : 12 ) ar th in ve an y i n ar th co de se - sa .
fo ex , in th ba pr , th in mi be a hi - le in of sh a ba , an a de se wo be th co - in vi re of a su ou .
no th th di su le pr ma no me of th ac th th le mu ac on in an de se ar sp .
fr a po of vi ou th le sy th tr da sp de in be ac th co pe sy co of th le an th en se fi .
fr th po of vi of th le , ho , th pr is to nd a ma fr in pn ( ci : 12 ) to ac un ( ci : 12 ) su th th re di se yn ar th ta va yn .
th is , th le mu nd a ma fr in to ac th ca be pl in se wi th en so as to yi th de pa of in an se .
no th th ma be mo th on ac th yi a gi de se fr an gi st th is , th di su le pr ma be un .
th , in th ba - ke ex , th ma be a va of pa of mo co th yi th sa de se of se of th ba pa th th go .
th le is as to be ab to ob st , ac , an se an ca th mo th ma be ac an se .
a fo mo is an in mo th pr a pr se ^y ba on th st xn ( ci : 12 ) an th ac un ( ci : 12 ) .
th is , a fo mo pr th co of a
fi : le th fo mo us th pr er yn ( ci : 12 ) ^y .
gi ac in th co of a gi st ve .
as sh in fi , th fo mo ca be le by co pr se to ac se an us th re pr er to ad th pa of th mo .
le th fo mo is a cl su le pr in wh th te pr ta va di in th ou co sy of th le .
di su le
we no de a ge ap to so th di su le pr - le .
co th sy sh in fi , in wh th le is pl in se wi a fo mo of th en .
th co le sy is a st - de ma fr in to pr se .
su th th fo mo ha be tr pr an is a pe mo of th en th is , th pr se eq th ac se fo al ac an al st .
in th en li , th le pr is re to as sy id "
lj & so , .
fi : th co le sy .
th co sy ma fr in pn ( ci : 12 ) to pr se ^y in th co of a gi st ve .
we no tr th co le sy as a si su le sy an tr it to ma fr in to de se ac to th da in th tr se .
th is , th de se y i ar tr as ta fo th co - it sy .
an su le al ca be us fo th tr pr ho , th al mu be co so th it do no al th fo mo wh th co sy is be tr .
by xi th fo mo , we re th sy to nd an op co ma by va on th ma fr in to ac .
if th fo mo is pe , an if th le al nd th gl op so , th th re st - de in - to - ac ma mu al be pe in th se th it yi th de co in be wh pl in se wi th en .
co no th ca of an im fo mo .
cl an im fo mo wi yi an im in - to - ac ma if th co sy is tr in th ob wa , us th di be th de se an th pr se as th er te .
th di , th pr pe er y ( ci : 12 ) ^y , is re av at th ou of th co sy , bu it is an un gu to th tr pe of th le .
su in th we ig th ou of th co sy an su th pe er y ( ci : 12 ) y as th er te fo tr th co sy se fi .
if th pe er go to ze th sy ha fo a co in - to - ac ma , re of th in of th fo mo .
th in in th fo mo ma it as a bi du th le pr , bu ne no pr th pe er fr go to ze .
co , fo ex , al ba on st de .
if th fo mo is no to in th sy ca st mo do an th re th so re , ev th th mo is no in th di of st de .
to su , we pr to so th di su le pr by tr a co le sy co of th le an a fo mo of th en .
th pr so im fo an in - to - ac ma by
y * ( n ) _
fi : th co sy is tr us th pe er .
th fo mo is he xe wh th co sy is be tr .
tr th co sy to ma fr in to di ta .
th tr of th fo mo mu pr th tr of th co sy , bu th fo mo ne no be pe , no ne it be pr - tr th al of st sp .
th ab of th sy to ut an in fo mo is im it im th it ma be po to in th tr of th fo mo an th co sy .
in th re of th pa , we di th is of in tr , in in th fo mo , an th ch of th er te in mo de .
we rs tu to an in sp ca of th ge di su le pr of le an in mo of th en .
an in mo is an in mo th pr an ac un ( ci : 12 ) as a fu of th cu st xn ( ci : 12 ) an th de se yn .
in mo ar de by th co th th yi th id ma wh pl in se wi th en .
in mo ar im in a va of do .
fo ex , if th en - vi is vi as a co ch ov wh a me is to be tr , th it ma be de to un th di ee of th en - ro by pl it in se wi an in mo ca , .
a se ex , sh in fi , ar in co sy de .
a co re th de se yn as in an mu nd ac th ca ac se to be as cl as po to de se th is , th co mu in
fi : an in mo as a co .
th tr fr ac to se .
on ap to ac th ob is to ut an ex in mo of th en as a co .
wh fo mo ar un de by th en , in mo ar ge no .
if th en is ch by a ma - to - on ma fr ac to se th th ar ge an in nu of po in mo .
it is al wo no th in do no al ex it is no al po to ac a pa de se fr an gi st .
as we sh di , th is of ex an un ha im im fo th pr of le an in mo .
th ar tw ge ap to le in mo us su le al : th di le ap pr ab an an al ap th we re to as di in mo " cf .
jo & ro , .
we be by de th la ap .
di in mo
di in mo tr th pr of le an in mo as a cl su le pr wi & st , .
as sh in fi , th id is to ob th in be of th en an to tr an in mo di by re th ro of th in an ou .
da ar pr to th al by sa in ac sp an ob th re in
al di in mo ha be sh to be a vi te in a nu of do at & re , ; ku , ; mi , , it ha tw dr th li it us .
fi , if th en is ch by a ma - to - on ma fr ac to se , th th di - re in mo te ma be un to nd an in .
th di is th no ma - to - on ma ca yi no in im , wh ar
co sy de no in a nu of ad co in st an ro th , th go is ge to in th en as ne as po su to th ad co .
fi : th di in mo ap to le an in mo .
pr fo di in mo .
co th si sh in fi .
th no re on th le is th in im of a po in se sp .
su th th po la by xs ar sa du th le pr .
th of th po co to th sa se th , th tr da as se by th di in mo pr ar on - to - ma in is pa wi ma ta .
su le al re on - to - ma in - ci by av ac th mu ta th fo of th av de on th pa co fu th is us .
as is sh in th gu , ho , th av of po ly in a no se do no ne li in th se .
th th gl op mi - co so fo by th di in mo ap is no ne a co in mo .
we pr an ex of su be in a fo se .
th se dr wi di in mo is th it is no go - di . " th al sa in ac sp wi re to pa ta or er in se sp .
th is , th is no di wa to nd an ac th co to a pa de se .
to ob pa so - lu th le mu sa ov a su wi ra of ac an re on
fi , it is al im to em th di in mo is re - st to th le of in mo is no ap to th ge di
a se is co if fo ev pa of po in th se al po on th li be th po
al li in th se .
fi : th co pr .
th re on th le is th in im of th po on th ri .
th ar re th di in wh th ma is le by di in mo .
th th po ly in th in im ar av by th le pr , yi th ve re by th sm ci .
th po is no a so , be th in im is no co .
su le pr .
th di le ap to le an in mo
th me de ea in th se ar di ap to th pr of le an in mo .
th pr of le an in mo ca be tr as a sp ca of th di su le pr in wh th in ve an th de se ar th sa th is , pn ( ci : 12 ) is eq to yn in eq .
th , an in mo is le by pl th le an th fo mo in se an le an id ma ac th co
a fu di be th di le ap an di in - ve mo ap is th ra th av ov re in ac sp , th di le ap nd pa so in ac sp .
th gl op so fo di le is a se of ve fu su th th pe
an in an ca be dr be th di le ap an in te - ni fo so sy of li eq .
in nu li al , ra th so ex fo a ge in of th co ma , so ar ge fo in e . g . , by ap ga el to bo si of th eq ga = i , wh i is th id
i ( ci : 12 ) yi ar ze .
th is tr ir of th sh of th in im - i .
ve ly ou of an in im , su as th av ag of th ta y ve sh in fi , do no yi ze pe er an ar th no gl op .
th no in im do no pr th sa fu - me di fo th di le fr as th do fo di in
it is al tr th th di le ap is fu go - di .
th sy wo to mi th pe er th , it wo di to nd so th co to th pa go at ha .
in ca in wh th fo ma is ma - to - on , th di le pr - ce nd a pa in mo .
wi ad in ab th pa st of th in - to - ac ma th is no wa of pr wh of th po in se of in mo th pr wi nd .
as is di be , ho , th pr ca al be co to nd pa in mo wi ce de pr .
di le an ba
in th se we de an im of th di le ap th ut th ma of th ba al .
it is im to em - si at th ou , ho , th ba is no th on al th ca be us to im th di le ap .
an su le al - ri ca be us as lo as it is ca of le a ma ac a co ne th in a pr tr su in pa , bo le is ap jo , .
we be by in a us sh fo de ba in la ne .
a la ne ca be de as a pa ma fr an in ve x to an ou ve y :
y = x; w;
wh w is a ve of pa we .
in th cl pa , th pr fo ch th we is ba on th di be a ta ve y an th ac ou ve y .
th ma of th di is me by a co fu of th fo :
y ( ci : 12 ) yt y ( ci : 12 ) y :
j is th su of sq er at th ou un of th ne .
it is ge de to mi th co .
ba is an al fo co gr of th co fu .
th de of th al ca be fo el e . g . , ru , et al . , ; ou in he is to de a si no th hi th de .
th is
ac fo by us th ch ru to di j wi re to th we ve w :
rw = ( ci : 12 )
y ( ci : 12 ) y :
th eq sh th an al th co th gr of j ee mu th er ve y ( ci : 12 ) y by th tr ja ma @y .
al th ba al ne fo th ma ex ba - pr is es a fa of th ma jo , , eq no de th re of th co pe by ba .
ba al co th gr of th co fu wi re to th ac of th un in th ne .
in pa , th co fu j ca be di wi re to th ac of th in un to yi :
rx = ( ci : 12 )
y ( ci : 12 ) y :
we re to eq as ba - to - we " an eq as ba - pr - to - ac . " bo co ar ca ou in on pa of th al in , ba - to - ac is ne as an in st in th ba - to - we co .
in th re of th se we fo tw br ca of le pr th li wi th sc of th di le ap an de ex - pr fo th gr th ar .
fo si it is as in bo of th de th th ta is to le an in mo th is , th in an th di ta ar as to be id .
th tw fo of th di le - in fr fo on di as of th di le pr an ha di st an we .
th rs ap , th lo op " fo , fo on th lo dy st of th en .
be it as th th le is ab to pr st tr ba on in th is av lo in ti , it de on pr kn of an ad se of st va fo de th en .
it is mo na ap to pr in wh ta va ar pr at ea mo in ti , al it ca be ex to pr in wh ta va ar pr in as we de in a fo se .
al of th co ne fo th lo
th ja ma of a ve fu is si it rs de is a ma of rs pa de .
th is , th en of th ma @y ar th pa de of th ea of th ou ac wi re to ea of th we in th ne .
to ga so in in wh a tr ma ar in ba , co a si - la li ne de by y = w x , wh w is th we ma .
th ro of w ar th in we ve fo th ou un of th ne , an th co of w ar th ou we ve fo th in un of th ne .
pa a ve fo in th ne in ta th in pr of th ve wi ea of th in we ve .
th op co to mu by w .
pa a ve ba in th ne co to ta th in pr of th ve wi ea of th ou we ve .
th op co to mu by w t , be th ro of w t ar th co of w .
op fo ca be pe in fe ne , th th is no pr wi st .
th se ap , th op - al - tr " fo , fo on gl te de al pa ta tr - je .
th co ne to ob th de is mo co th th co ne fo th lo op fo , bu it is mo ex .
it ca be ex to ca in wh a se of st va is no kn a pr an it is na ap to pr in wh ta va ar pr in - te in ti .
th is po a pr wi st , ho , be th co fo ob th gr in a dy pr .
th rs pr fo th we di is a lo op pr .
we as th th pr th ge ta ve is st an co th fo ge co fu :
ef ( ci : 12 ) yt y ( ci : 12 ) yg
wh y is an un fu of th st x an th ac u .
th ac u is th ou of a pa in mo of th fo :
u = hx y
wh w is a we ve .
ra th op j di , by co st ov th en of st an ac , we ut an on le ru cf .
wi & st , th ma in ch to th we ba on th in va of th co fu :
yn ( ci : 12 ) yn yn ( ci : 12 ) yn :
an on le al ch th we at ea ti st ba on th st gr of j; th is , th gr of jn :
wn + = wn ( ci : 12 ) rw
wh is a st si .
to co th gr th ch ru is ap to eq -
rw = ( ci : 12 )
yn ( ci : 12 ) yn
wh th ja ma @y an @u ar ev at ti n ( ci : 12 ) .
th rs an th th fa in th ex ar ea co : th rs fa de th pr of de fr th ou un of th in mo th ac un " to th we of th in mo , an th th fa is th
di er .
th or of th se fa is pr , ho , be th de of y on u is as to be un a pr .
ou ap to ob an es of th fa ha tw pa : fi , th sy ac a pa fo mo ov an ap su of th st sp .
th mo is of
^y = ^f x; u; v;
wh v is a ve of we an ^y is th pr se .
se , th di er is pr ba th th fo mo th ee mu th di er by an es of th tr ja ma @y .
pu th pi to , th al fo le th in mo is
ba on th fo es st gr :
^r = ( ci : 12 )
yn ( ci : 12 ) yn :
th ex de th pr of th di er yn ( ci : 12 ) yn ba th th fo mo an do in th in mo wh th we ar ch .
th ne ar in wh th co ta pl is sh in fi .
th ne is a st re of th bl di in fi .
it is co of an in mo , wh li th st un an th in un to th ac un , an a fo mo , wh li th st un an th ac un to th pr - se un .
le th fo mo
th le of th fo mo ca it be fo as an op pr - le , ba on th fo co fu :
ef ( ci : 12 ) ^y y ( ci : 12 ) ^y
wh ^y is of th fo gi in eq .
al th ch of pr fo nd a se of we v to mi th co is en in of th ch of pr fo op j in eq , it is co to ba th le of th fo mo on a st gr as be :
rv = ( ci : 12 )
yn ( ci : 12 ) ^y
wh th ja ma @ ^y is ev at ti n ( ci : 12 ) .
th gr ca be co by th pr of de wi th fo mo an th re no ad ha be th al re fo le th in
no th th er te y
n ( ci : 12 ) yn is no a fu of th ou of th fo mo no , ac mu ow fo in th mo be th es ja ma @ ^y va as a fu of th ac of th hi un an th ou un of th
fi : a fe ne th in a fo mo .
th ac un ar th ou un of th sy .
y ( ci : 12 ) y y ( ci : 12 ) ^y y ( ci : 12 ) ^y
pr pe er
ta : th er si an th so
th er si
it is im to cl th me of th er si us in eq an .
as sh in ta , th ar th er si th ca be fo fr th va y , ^y , an y| pr er y ( ci : 12 ) ^y , th pe er y ( ci : 12 ) y , an th pr pe er y ( ci : 12 ) ^y .
al th of th er si ar av to th le be ea of th si y , y an ^y ar av in ta y an th ac se y ar pr by th en , wh th pr se ^y is av in .
fo le th fo mo , th pr er is cl th ap er si .
th le of th in mo , ho , ca be ba on ei th pe er or th pr pe er .
us th pe er se eq ha th ad th th sy ca le an ex in mo ev th th fo mo is on ap .
th ar tw re fo th : rs , eq pr th mi of th co fu in eq |t ar ze of th es gr .
th is , an in ja ma ca re ze of th es gr po at wh y ( ci : 12 ) y is ze , al it ca in ad ze sp lo mi .
se , if th es gr ob wi th ap fo mo ha po in pr wi th st gr in eq , th th ex st of th al is do in th co .
th th al ca in pr nd an ex in mo ev th th fo mo is on ap .
th ma al be ad to us th pr pe er .
pa , it ma be ea in so si to ob le tr us th in mo ra th th ex en ru , sm , mc - cl , & hi , ; su , .
su in tr ca be th of as a fo of me pr " in th ca of ba - to - we or pl " in th ca of ba - to - ac .
th pr le to im pe if th fo mo is su ac .
ex so ca be fo wi su pr , ho , un th fo mo is ex .
in ma ca th un ma fr ac to se ca be de in a se of si ma , ea of wh ca be mo in .
fo ex , it ma of be pr to mo th ne - st fu an th ou fu se ra th mo th as a si co fu .
in su ca , th ja ma @ ^y ca be fa us th ch ru to yi th fo es st gr :
^r = ( ci : 12 )
yn ( ci : 12 ) yn :
th es ja ma in th ex ar ob by pr de ba th th co fo mo , ea of wh ar
op al tr
a co in mo al th le to sy th ac th ar ne to fo an de tr .
in th lo op fo we ee
th se is in fo co an is no ne fo th re of th pa .
as th th le of an in mo is of pr co an th le of pa ta tr is se .
th le ru gi by eq nd ac th in th dy of th en at th cu po in st sp , re of wh th po is on a de tr or no .
in te of ne ar , th ap le to us fe ne to mo th lo fo an in st tr st se fi .
in th cu se we co a mo sp pr fo in wh th fo is on pa cl of ta tr .
th fo is ba on va ca an is cl al wi me in op co - tr th ki , ; le , .
th al th re is a fo of ba - in - ti " ru , hi , & wi , in a re ne th in a le fo mo .
th al di fr th al pr ab in th it no on in th re be ac - ti an se at th cu po in st sp bu al mo th cu st to th de tr .
we co an en of ta tr fy
ng an de th fo
n ( ci : 12 ) yn y
n ( ci : 12 ) yn
wh is an in ac ta tr an y is an un fu of th st x an th ac u .
th ac u is a pa fu of th st x an th ta y
u = hx y
as in th pr fo , we ba th le ru on th st gr of j , th is , th gr ev al a pa sa tr y :
n ( ci : 12 ) yn y
n ( ci : 12 ) yn :
th gr of th co fu ca be ob us th ca of va se al le , , na & pa , .
le n re th ve of pa de of j wi re to xn , an le n re th ve of pa de of j wi re to un , ap a sh th th gr of j is gi by th fo re re :
n ( ci : 12 ) yn
n ( ci : 12 ) =
fi : a re ne wi a fo mo .
th bo la by ds ar un de el .
wh th ja ma ar al ev at ti st n an z st fo xn + th , th ja ma @z an @z ar th de - ti of th ne - st fu .
th ex de ba - in - ti in a re ne th in a fo mo of th ne - st fu - ti an th ou fu .
as sh in fi , th re ne is es th sa as th ne in fi , ex th th ar ex co - ne wi un de el be th ne - st an th cu st .
ba - in - ti pr de ba th th re co as de by th re re in eq an .
as in th lo op ca , th eq fo co th gr
al , fi ca be th of as a sp ca of fi in wh th ba -
ag er si st at th st un cf .
jo , .
in th mu of th pe er y ( ci : 12 ) y by a se of tr ja ma , se of wh ar un a pr .
ou ap to es - ma th un fa is on ag to le fo mo of th un ma an to pr si ba th th mo .
th th ja ma @z , @z , an @y in eq , , an ar al re by es qu in co th es st gr
in th fo tw se , we pu th pr of th di le ap in th co of tw pr do .
th rs se de le in a st en , wh th se se de le in a dy en .
in bo se , we ut th lo op fo of di
an en is sa to be st if th ee of an gi ac is in of th hi of pr ac .
in st en th ma fr ac to se ca be ch wi re to a se of st va .
su en pr a si do in wh to st th le of in ma .
in th se , we pr an il st en an fo on tw is : th ee of no in im in th tr fr se to ac an th pr of go - di le .
th pr th we co is th of le th fo an in ki - ma of a th - jo pl ar .
as sh in fi an fi th co - gu of th ar is ch by th th jo an q; q; an q , an th co pa of ca va x an x .
th fu th re th va is th fo ki fu x = gq .
it is ob in cl fo us el tr :
x = " lc + lc + q + lc + q + q
ls + ls + q + ls + q + q ;
wh l; l; an l ar th li le .
th fo ki fu gq is a ma - to - on ma ev ca po th is in th bo of th wo , th ar an in - ni nu of jo an co to ac th po .
th im th ( ci : 12 ) x is no a fu ra , th ar an in th in ki re g nu of in ki fu co to pa ch of po q in th in im of ea of th ca po .
th pr of le an in ki co fo th ar is th of nd a pa in am th ma po in ma .
( x1 , x1 )
fi : a th - jo pl ar .
fi : th fo an in ma as wi ar ki .
in th si re be , th jo - an co of th ar we re us th ve co ( ci : 12 ) ; co co , ra th th ve of jo an .
th ee re th mo of th jo to th in
, ; , an ; , re , as th ea co of th jo - an co ve is al to ra ov th in ( ci : 12 ) ; .
th ca va x an x we re as re nu ra ov ( ci : 12 ) ; .
in al of th si , th va we re di as re - va ac of un in th ne .
th , th un we us to re jo - an co - ur an tw un we us to re ca po .
fu de on th si ar pr in ap b .
th no pr
on ap to le an in ma is to pr tr pa to th le by ob th in be of th en an re th ro of th in an ou .
th ap , wh we re to ea as di in mo , " ha be pr in th do of in ki by ku .
ku id is to ra sa po q in jo sp an to us th re ar to ev th fo ki fu x = gq , th ob tr pa x; q fo le th co .
th co is le by op of th fo co fu :
ef ( ci : 12 ) qt q ( ci : 12 ) qg
wh q = hx is th ou of th co .
as we di ea , a di wi th di in mo ap is th th op of th co fu in eq do no ne yi an in ki fu .
th pr ar be of th ma - to - on na of th fo ki fu cf .
fi .
in pa , if tw or mo of th ra sa po q ha to ma to th sa en , th th tr da th is pr to th co is on - to - ma .
th pa ma in wh th in is re de on th fo of th co fu of th su - of - sq er gi in eq yi an ar av ov po th ma to th sa en .
an av in jo sp , ho , do no ne yi a co re in ca sp , be th in im of no tr ar no ne co .
th im th th ou of th co ma be in er ev th th sy ha co to th mi of th co fu .
in fi we de th th in ki of th th - jo ar is no co .
to se if th no ha th ex ee on th di in mo pr we co a si in wh a fe ne wi on hi la wa us to le th in ki of th th - jo ar .
th si pr ta ve to th ne by sa ra fr a un di in jo sp .
in ve we ob by ma th ta ve in ca sp ac to eq .
th in va of th ro - me - sq rm jo - sp er wa : , lt ov th rs tr .
af ; le tr th lt er re as at a va of : .
a ve el wa th pl by pr de ca ve as in to th ne , ob th jo - an ou , an ma th ou in ca sp us eq .
th re ve el is sh in fi .
as ca be se , th is su er at ma po of th wo , ev th th le al ha co .
if tr is co , th lo of th er co to sh , bu th rm er re ap co .
al - th th er is pa du to th ni le ra an th ra sa
fi : th no of in ki .
th do co is an av in jo sp of th tw so co .
pr mi , " se wi & st , , th er re ab : ev wh th le ra is ta to ze .
th , mi ca ac - co fo th er , wh mu be du to th no of th in ki re .
no , fo ex , th th er ob in fi is re in th lo le po of fi .
in fi , we de th th di le ap ca nd a pa - ti in ki ma .
we pe a si th wa in wi th in co ob fr di in mo .
th si - ti ut a fo mo th ha be tr pr th fo mo wa tr du th di in mo tr .
a gr of ev sp po in ca sp wa us to pr ta du th se ph of th di le pr .
on ea tr th er in ca sp wa pa ba th th fo mo an us to ch th we of th co .
af ; su le tr pa th th gr of ta - ge , th re ve el wa pl .
as sh in th gu , th ve er de to ze th th wo th , th co is co to a pa in ki fu .
th us of a gr is no ne th pr al wo if ca po ar sa
ra on ea tr .
fi : ne - as pe of di in mo .
ea ve re th er at a pa po in th wo .
a fu vi of th di le ap is th ea wi wh it is po to in ad co in th le pr an th bi th ch of a pa in fu .
fo ex , a mi - no co ca be re by ad a pe te of th fo ( ci : 12 ) x to th pr er at th ou of th co .
te sm co ca be re by in ad er te of th fo xn ( ci : 12 ) xn ( ci : 12 ) .
su co ca be de at ot si in th ne as we , in th ou un or hi un of th fo mo .
it is al po to pr ad co in to th co an th le mu , co - ap in fu .
th as of th di le ap ar di in mo de in jo , .
di in mo do no le in a go - di ma .
to le a sp ca ta , th pr mu sa ov a su la re of jo sp an re on in .
he ma be av to re th se to ce re of jo sp , bu su he ar es pr kn
fi : ne - as pe of di le .
ab th na of th in ma an ca eq we be in in th di le pr .
di le is fu go - di .
it is ba on th pe er fo a sp ca ta an is ca of nd an ex so fo a pa ta in a sm nu of tr .
th is de by th si sh in fi .
st fr th co sh in fi , a pa ca ta wa pr fo te su tr .
as sh in fi , th ne re it so th th er is sm in th vi of th ta .
af te ad tr , th er at th ta is ze wi th oa - po re of th si .
ap fo mo
we co an ad si to st th ee of in in th fo mo .
th si va th nu of tr al to th le of th fo mo fr to .
th co wa tr to an rm cr of .
at th th ta po ( ci : 12 ) : ; : , : ; : , an : ; : .
as sh in fi , th re de th an ac co ca be fo wi an in fo mo .
fe tr ar ne to le th ta po to cr wi th mo ac fo mo ho , th dr in le ra wi le ac fo mo is re sl .
re
fi : go - di le .
a ca ta in th lo ri po of th gu wa pr fo te su tr .
th er ve ar cl to ze in th vi of th ta .
ra le is ob ev wh th fo mo is tr fo on tr , ev th th av rm er in th fo mo is : m af tr , co to : m af tr .
fu co wi di in mo
in pr wi ma ou va it is of un to ac an in mo ov th en wo .
in su ca th go - di na of di le is pa im be it al th sy to ob in im fo a re se of lo .
ho , th fo mo mu al be le ov a re re of ac sp , an th is no ge a pr me fo de th ap re of th sp in wh to sa .
th is , al di le is go - di in it ac of th in mo , it is no in go - di in it ac of th fo mo .
be ne di in mo no di
le is en go - di , in an gi pr it is im to co wh it is mo re - so to ac th in mo or th fo mo in a no - go - di
fo mo tr ( tr )
fi : nu of tr re to tr th co to an rm cr of .
as a fu of th nu of tr al to tr th fo mo .
ea po is an av ov th ru .
ma .
th is is pr - de , de on th na of th fu be le , th na of th cl of fu th ca be re by th le , an th na of th le al .
it is wo no , ho , th th is an in tr in co be th in mo an th fo - wa mo , du to th fa th th co is th id ma .
th tr su a co be th cl of pr fo wh di in mo an di le ar ap .
we be th di le is mo ge us , ho , be an in fo mo is ge ac wh an in in mo is no .
in ma ca , it ma be pr to le an in fo mo th is sp in at a de se of lo ra th le an in in mo di an re on in .
dy en : on - st dy mo
to il th ap of di le to pr in wh th en ha st , we co th pr of le to co a tw - jo ro ar .
co - tr a dy ro ar in nd th ap to to ca th ar to fo de tr .
th pr is di be of th no co be th mo of th tw li an be of th ct to du to th ro co sy .
th ar th we co is th tw - li ve of th ar sh pr in fi .
it co at ea po in ti is de by th jo an qt an qt , an by th ca va xt an xt .
th ki fu xt = gq th re jo an to ca va ca be ob by le l eq ze in eq :
xt = " lc + lc + qt
ls + ls + qt ;
wh l an l ar th li le .
th st sp fo th ar is th fo - di sp of po an ve of th li .
th es of ro ar dy is a ma be th to ap at th jo an th re an ac of th li .
th ma is _q , an q de on th st va of an an an ve .
le q , re th ve of jo an , an ve , an an ac , re , an le re th to .
in th te of ea se , q an _q to co th st " an is th ac . " fo co , we ta q to re th ne - st " se th di be .
to ob an an of th ne - st fu in eq , th fo di eq ca be de fo th an mo of th li , us st ne or la dy fo cr , :
m qq + cq _q _q + gq = ;
wh m q is an in ma , cq _q is a ma of co an ce te , an gq is th ve of to du to gr .
ou in is no in th ph be th eq pe se , bu in th fu re th th de .
in pa , to ob a ne - st fu , " we re eq by so fo th ac to yi :
( ci : 12 ) q ( ci : 12 ) cq _q _q ( ci : 12 ) gq
( ci : 12 ) q is al as cr , .
eq ex - wh th ex of m pr th st - de re be to an ac at ea mo in ti : gi th st va qt an _q , an gi th to t , th ac qt ca be co by su in eq .
we re to th co as th fo dy of th ar .
fi : th fo an in ma as wi ar dy .
an in ma be to an ac ca be ob by in - te eq in th pr ma .
gi th st va qt an _q , an gi th ac qt , su in eq yi th co - sp to .
th al co is re to as in dy .
it sh be cl th in dy an fo dy ar co - ta co : su of fr eq in eq yi th re id ma .
th re be to , ac , an st ar su in fi .
it is us to co th gu wi th ki ex sh in fi .
in bo th ki ca an th dy ca , th fo an in ma th mu be le ar xe fu of th in va of th re va .
in th dy ca , th is du to th fa th th st te of th dy eq th te m , c , an g ar ex fu of st ra th ti .
th dy ca ca be th of as a ge of th ki ca in wh ad co st va ar ne to in th ma th mu be le .
fi is an in of fi , wi th ac pl th ro of th ne - st . " in ge , fo sy de by di eq , it is co to de th no of ne - st " in te of th ti de of on or mo of th st va e . g . , ac in th ca of ar dy .
th de is en co wi th de in pr se in , if th di eq in eq ar si in di ti on a co , th th nu al mu co th ac de by eq to co th po an ve at th cu ti st in th po an ve at th ne ti st .
th pe is es th un th lo op fo of di
be of th am of no in di si , ho , mo re im - ta of fo dy mo wo ut po an ve ra th ac .
in su ca th nu in of eq wo be in as pa of th fo
le a dy fo mo
a fo mo of ar dy is a ne th le a pr ^q of th ac q , gi th po q , th ve _q , an th to .
th ap - pr te si fo su a ne is th ac ac q , yi th fo co fu :
ef ( ci : 12 ) ^q q ( ci : 12 ) ^q :
th pr ^q is a fu of th po , th ve , th to an th
^q = ^f q; _q ; w :
fo an ap en of co tr , th co fu is mi wh a se of we is fo su th ^f ; w be ap th fo dy fu gi by eq .
an im di be ki pr an dy pr is th it is ge in to pr ar ra co si in dy - na en , be of co of st .
fo ex , if t in eq is al to be a st wh - no st pr , th th va of qt ap in mu li a ra wa .
th yi da th is of li us fo le a mo .
we ha us tw cl re ap to ov th pr .
th rs ap is to pr ra eq po fo th ar ra th ra to .
th is , we de a ne co si ut su th th au ar dy ar gi by :
m qq + cq _q _q + gq = kv _q ( ci : 12 ) _u + kp ( ci : 12 ) u;
fo xe co kp an kv .
th ra co si u in th eq ac as a vi " eq po fo th ar ho , an th au dy ca be us to ge tr da fo le th fo mo .
th se ap al ut eq an di fr th rs ap on in th ch of th co si ut .
ra th us ra co , th ta tr th ar us as co th is , th tr ut in th se ph of le ar al us to tr th fo mo .
th ap is eq to us a si xe - ga pr - de pd fe co to st th sy al a se of re tr an th ge tr da .
su us of an au fe co is si to it us in th fe - er le ka , et al . , an di in mo at & re , ; mi , ap .
as is di be , th se ap ha th ad th it do no re th fo mo to be le in a se ph .
a pd co is a de wh ou is a we su of po er an ve er .
th po er an th ve er ar mu by xe nu ga be
fi : th co co sy .
co co sy
th co sy fo co th ar is sh in fi .
th co si in th di is th to , wh is th su of tw co :
= f f + f b;
wh f f is a fe to an f b is th op fe to pr by th au fe co .
th fe co is th le co - tr th co to a mo of th in dy of th ar .
in th ea ph of le , th fe co pr sm ra to , th th ma so of co is pr by th er - co fe co .
wh th fe co be to be le it pr to th al - lo th sy to fo de tr wi sm er , th th ro of th fe co is di .
in , in th li wh th fe co co to a pe in mo , th fe to ca th sy to fo a de tr wi er an th fe co is
as is di be , th st is no en ac .
th le al it
pr a fo of er - co fe co .
th si as no di .
th th sy sh au fr fe - do co to fe - do co ov th co of le se al at & re , ; ka , et al . , ; mi ,
th ar tw er si ut in le in dy : th pr er q ( ci : 12 ) ^q an th pe er q ( ci : 12 ) q .
th pr er is us to tr th fo mo as di in th pr se .
on th fo mo is at le pa le , th pe er ca be us in tr th in mo .
th er is pr ba th th fo mo an do in th fe co wh th we ar ch .
th pr mi th di co fu :
ef ( ci : 12 ) qt q ( ci : 12 ) qg :
th ar wa mo us ri bo dy as th ma to be un di al th li .
th li we mo as th cy .
de on th ph co ar pr in ap c .
th si of th fo dy of th ar wa ca ou us a fo - or ru - ku al wi a sa fr of hz .
th co si pr by th ne we sa at hz .
st fe co ne we us in al of th si - ti .
th we tw fe ne in ea si co an a fo mo ov co as sh in fi wi th bo la ar " be re by a fo mo .
bo th co an th fo mo we fe ne wi a si la of lo hi un .
in al of th si , th st va , to , an ac we re - se di as re - va ac in th ne .
de of th ne us in th si ar pr in ap b .
in al bu th na si re be , th le of th fo mo an th le of an in mo we ca ou in se ph .
th fo mo wa le in an in ph by us a ra pr to dr th au dy gi in eq .
th ra pr wa a wh no po si ch un wi th wo sh in fi .
th le of th fo mo wa te wh th lt rm pr er re : ra .
as no ab , it is al po to in th nu in of ^q as pa of th fo mo an le a ma wh ou is th pr ne - st ^q ^_ .
th ap ma be pr fo sy in wh di of no si is a co .
fi : th wo th gr re an fo ta pa .
th tr mo fr le to ri al th pa sh .
fi : pe on on of th fo le tr .
a be le .
b af le tr .
le wi an au fe co
af le th fo mo , th sy le to co th ar al th fo pa sh in fi .
th ta tr we mi je tr of on se du ea .
an au pr - de pd fe co wa us , wi po ga of : n m= an ve ga of : n m s= .
fi sh th pe on a pa tr be le wi th pd co al an du th th le tr .
th co wa ar sh in fi an fi .
th mi gr in th gu sh th fe to da li an th fe to so li .
as ca be se , in th ea ph of le th to ar
ge pr by th fe co an in la ph th to ar ge pr by th fe co .
le wi an au fe co
an in co of th go - di na of th fo mo ap is th it is po to le an in dy mo wi us an au fe co .
to se wh th is th ca , rs no th mi je re tr an ot sm " re tr ch sl in ti .
th im th su ti st ar es re le tr on th sa in ve th , th co co ra to a so " fo a lo re of st sp .
as th tr ev , th so tr th in th , th co pr re go to pr to an le . " pu an wa , th di le ap is it a fo of er - co fe co in th pa sp of th co .
su er co mu ev gi wa to co of th we if th sy is to le an in mo no , it is a us fe of th al th it te to st th ar du le .
th be is de by th si sh in fi .
th gu sh pe on th rs le tr as a fu of th le ra .
th re de th ch th le ra es ch th ga of th er - co be of th al .
wh th le ra is se to . , th sy pr ne pe pe on th rs le tr .
th fe of th al ma it im to cl th me of th le cu ob wi th di le ap .
fi sh tw su le cu .
th lo cu is th rm er th is ob wi a le ra of . .
th up cu is th rm er th is ob wh th le ra is te se to ze af ea le tr .
se th le ra to ze al th ee of le to be ev se fr th er - co be .
th cu cl re th on th ea tr th ma co to pe is er co ra th le .
co fo dy an fo ki
co th fo dy mo of th se wi th fo ki mo of th pr se ma it po to tr th co us ca - si ta tr .
gi th th dy mo an th ki mo ca be le in pa , th is es no pe de as wi us th co sy .
in ou si , we nd th le ti in by ap ei pe wh us ca ta ra th jo an ta .
mu = 12
mu = 12
mu = 12
mu = 12
mu = 12
mu = 12
fi : pe on th rs le tr as a fu of th le ra .
mu = 12 mu = 12
fi : rm er fo ze an no - ze le ra .
le th fo mo an th co si
th di le ap in us a fo mo to tr th co th , le of th fo mo mu pr th le of th co .
it is no ne , ho , to le th fo mo ov th en st sp be le th co lo fo mo is ge su .
mo , as we ha di , th di le ap do no re an ex fo mo fo mo of su .
th tw fa , in co wi th us of sm re tr , im th it sh be po to le th fo mo an th co si .
an au fe co is ne to st th sy in ho , on th fo mo be to be le , th le al it te to st th sy .
mo , as th co be to be le , th er de an th ee of th fe co di au .
th th sy bo it to an in mo .
th si sh in fi de th fe of th ap .
fi : le th fo mo an th co si .
a pe - fo be le on tw of th ta tr .
b pe af
us th sa ar as in pr ex th sy le fo ta tr st wi sm ra we in bo th co an th fo mo .
on ea ti st tw pa of th ba al we re pa wi th pr er q ( ci : 12 ) ^q to ch th we of th fo mo , an a se pa wi th pe er q ( ci : 12 ) q to ch th we of th co .
an au pr - de pd fe co wa us , wi po ga of : n m= an ve ga of : n m s= .
as sh in th gu , th sy co to an ac le of pe af le tr .
al th si le pr re mo pr of th ta tr to ac a le of pe co to th of th tw - ph le pr , th si pr is in fa mo ec th tw - ph le be it di wi th in ph of le th fo mo .
th ad mu be we ag ce di in pa , th po of in is en be of th er in th gr ob fr th pa - le fo mo .
in pr we nd th it is of ne to us sm st si in th si le ap th in th tw - ph le ap .
pr ex ha al sh th is wo to ch sp re th en th sp wi wh th fo mo co .
th ca be do se fo th st va in an th to in .
dy en : si mo
in th pr se we de ho th te co of th di - ta su le pr ca be ad by kn of a se of st va fo th en .
as pr kn of a se of st va is ta to as th th le ha pr kn of th ma de be th ti at wh an ac is is an th ti at wh an ee is ob in th se ve .
in th cu se we pr pr re th ai to br th sc of th di le ap to ad pr in wh th ma de is no kn se al we , .
a si ex of su a pr is on in wh a ro ar is re to be in a ce co at ti t , wh t is un , an wh th tr in th op in fr to t is un .
on ap to so su pr is to le a on - st fo mo of th ar dy an th to us ba - in - ti in a re ne th in th fo mo an a co jo , ; ka , .
in ma pr in de te co , ho , it is ne fe no de to le a dy fo mo of th en , ei be th en is to co or be so th ta at ha do no re kn of th ev of al of th st va .
co fo ex th pr of pr th he of a sp of wa wh st of va si ar dr in a po .
it is un th a us on - st dy mo co be le fo th ui dy of th po .
mo , if th co pr is to pr sp of pa de he , it ma no be ne to mo ui dy in de .
a si fo mo th pr an in qu he as a fu of th si of th st su .
jo an ja il th ap by us di le to so th pr of le to ba an in pe on a mo ca .
th pr is ge po as an av co pr in wh th on co in pr by th en is a si to in th fa ha oc ba , su , & an , .
th de be ac fo ap to th ca an th fa si is un an in ca be ar la .
in th sp of th fo di , jo an ja al as th it is un to mo th dy of th ca - po sy th , th co ca be le by us ba - in - ti in a re ne th in a on - st dy mo of th pl .
a un tr ma be sp by en ad co on th te ev - lu of th ac ho , th on ex ta in is as to be th pr at th na ti st .
in ka wo , ba - in - ti is im in a sp - un ne an th gr ar us to ch ac ra th we ho , th id of us a on - st fo dy mo is th sa .
se al ng & wi fo an ap to a ki pr .
th ap ad by jo an ja in le a fo mo wh ou is an in qu es of th in of th ti un fa .
th es is le us te di te su , .
at ti st on wh fa oc , th ta va fo th fo mo is un :
et = ( ci : 12 ) ^z
wh ^z is th ou of th fo mo , an et is th er te us to ch th we .
on al ot ti st , th fo te di er te is us :
+ ^z ( ci : 12 ) t +
wh yi an in ar se al an tr th le to fa .
on le , th ou of th fo mo is us to pr a gr fo le th co .
in pa , be th de ou of ba th po ca be de as th go of ma th ti un fa , th al le th co by us ze mi th ou of th fo mo as th di er si .
th fo mo us by jo an ja di in an im wa fr th ot fo mo de in th pa .
be th ti - un - fa de on fu ac of th co , th ma th th fo mo mu le de no on on xe pr of th en bu al on th co .
wh th co is ch by th le al , th ma th th fo mo mu le al ch .
th th fo mo mu be up co du th le of th co .
in ge , fo pr in wh th fo mo le to es an in of th cl - lo dy , th le of th fo mo an th co mu pr
te di te pr th di le ap wi en - ha fu .
th ma it po to le to ma lo - te pr an th ad co on th ba on qu th ar di in ti .
th ca al be us to le mu - st fo mo .
in co wi ba - in - ti , th pr a ex se of te fo le ac - ti on th ba of te - ex co .
in th pa we ha ar th th su le pa is br th is co as .
th di su le fr ex su - vi le to pr in wh de va ar av on fo th di
th te ca be co as an ex of us su le al to so
a re le pr se be .
co of a le ac an no fo th ac th .
th is a si - ni we of th cl no of th te " in th su le in th se we pr fu di of th cl of pr th ca be tr wi th di su le fr .
we di po so of tr da an we co di su le wi
ho is tr da ob ?
to pr su fo ou ar th di su le is mo re th cl su le it is ne to co po so of tr da fo di su le .
we di tw su so , wh we re to as im an en .
on of th mo co wa fo hu to ac sk is th im .
sk su as da or at ar of le by ob an pe pe th sk an at to re th be .
al in so ca a te ma be av to su pa pa of li mo , su di in do no ap to be a ne co of sk ac .
a ca in po is sp ac ac sp by he sp so , no by re in on ho to mo th ar .
ou co of a di su le pr in a se of in - ti , de ou tr pa .
le by im cl ma de ou av to th le .
wi re to in , th ar th po - bi .
fi , th le ma kn or be ab to in th in of th pe se as a mo .
al , an id in en of in is vi as lo as th en is co .
fo ex , a ch ac sp ma ha an in to dr , ma ob an pe ob wa by ut th fo wa , " an ma ut th ac re of wa " as a di ta fo le th ar mo fo ex a de to dr , ev th th ot pe us th wa to do a re .
fi , wh th le is ac an in mo , as in th si re in th pa , th in is ob av be it is th sa as de ou .
ou co of di su le pr as a se of tr pa is of co an ab th mu be el wh de wi co ta .
in a co ta su as da , it is pr no ea to de th ch of se da to be us as di ta fo th le pr .
in , th le ma al th ch of ta on he or sh ha ac a mo of sk .
th le ma al ne to de th ta in si ta an to se in go .
we su th th ro of ex te " is to he wi th re is ra th to pr pr ta di to th
an so of da fo th di su le pa is a pr th we re to as en . " en is a ge pr of co
ab go in th co se re , wi re to th ac ne to ac th go .
en in de wh it wo lo li " or fe li " to pe so ta .
th pr pr in ge de an in re ab as we as ex wi si ta .
th po th we wa to em is th en ne no re to th ac th ar ne to ac ca ou a ta th is th pr so by th di le pr .
co wi re le
an al ap to so th cl of pr th we ha di in th pa is to us re le al ba , ; su , .
re le al ar ba on th as th th en - me pr an ev of th ac pr by th le .
be th ev ca be an ar fu , th ap is in pr ap to th ge pr of le on th ba of di si .
re le al wo by up th pr of em - ti pa ac .
th up pr is ba on th ev re fr th en .
if th ev of an ac is fa th th pr - it as wi th ac is in an th pr as wi al ot ac ar de .
co , if th ev is un , th th pr of th gi ac is de an th pr as wi al ot ac ar in .
th ch fe of re le al di in im wa fr th co fe of su le al .
su le al ar ba on th ex of a si er ve ra th an ev .
th si er ve is ge , al no al , ob by co th ac ou ve to a ta ve .
if th si er ve is sm , co to a fa ev , th al in no ch .
if th si er ve is la , co to an un ev , th al co th cu ac in fa of a pa al ac .
su le al do no si in th pr of al al ac ra , th ch pa al ba on th di of th si er ve .
it is im to di be le pa an le al - ri .
be th sa le al ca of be ut in a va of le pa , a fa to di be pa an al ca le to mi .
th is pa tr of re le ta an su le ta be of th cl re be ev si an si er ve .
a si er ve ca al be co in an ev si an bo mo fu of th no of th si
as po ou by ba , su & an , th di be re le an su le is si on if th le ha a re of mo th tw
er ve su th , re le al ca al be us fo su le pr .
co , an ev si ca al be co in a si er ve us th ma th we ha di se al mu , ; th , su le al ca al be us fo re le pr .
th de of a le pa , ho , ha mo to do wi th ma in wh a pr is na po th wi th al us to so th pr .
in th ca of th ba pl , fo ex , as th th en pr di in su as to fa to th le , " to lo , " or to sh , " is ve di fr as th th en pr ev in of th fo go , " be , " or be " .
fu , le al di in al co wh ap ac pa : us a re le al to so a su - pe le pr is li to be in be su al do no ta ad of di in .
co , us su le al - go to so re le pr is li to be in be of th ex ma th is re to in a si er ve .
in su , al it ha be su th th di be re - fo le an su le is th la re on a te , " we fe th th ar is mi .
th di be th su le pa an th re le pa li in th in of en - ro fe as an er si or as an ev si , no th co sy in wh su si ar pr .
ma pr in di cr as ma be be co of as su le pr ra th re le pr if th di fe si ca be in as a pe er .
th ar a nu of di wi th cl di be un - vi , " re , " an su " le .
su le is ge sa to be de on a te " to pr ta va fo th ou un of a ne .
th is vi as a li be in ma do th is no su te .
ne , th en of do pr se in ab th co of an ac wh ca be em in ma in mo - ic ju as if a te ha pr th in to th le di .
th id is th th le rs ac an in mo th al pr of th co of ac .
th in mo ca be us as a me fo tr di se in ab th co of ac in pr in fo ma in mo .
th tw - ph pr ex th sc of th su le pa to in a br ra of pr in wh ac ar tr by an un dy pr be be co to de ou .
we rs il th ap in th ca of le an in mo of a si st " en .
we sh th ou me of ut a fo mo of th en ha a nu of im ad ov th al me of bu th in mo di .
th ad ar es ap in ca wh th is no un in mo .
we al sh th th id ca be ex us to th ca of a dy en .
in th ca , we si el bo th fo mo an th le i . e . , co so th ta in ac th cu st of th en .
fi , we sh ho th ap ca be co wi te di te to bu a sy ca of le fr se fe th is su to an un de .
we al su th co wo in th st of le ca be fa - ta by ma a di be le al an le pa .
a va of le al ca of be ap to a pa in of a le pa th , it is im to ch no on th pa as of an gi le pr , su as th na of th in be th le an th en an th na of th qu to be op , bu al th tr in al co th ar wh di cl of le al ar ap to th pr .
fu re is ne to de th na cl at th le of pa an al an to cl th re be le .
we be th su re wi be to pr - vi a th ba fo ma di be ca hy in th em st of hu le .
