an int to var met for gra mod
mic i .
jor dep of ele eng and com sci and dep of sta , uni of cal , ber , ca 123 , usa
gat com neu uni , uni col lon wc1 123 , uk
tom s .
jaa art int lab , mit , cam , ma 123 , usa
law k .
sau at& lab , flo par , nj 123 , usa
edi : dav hec
abs .
thi pap pre a tut int to the use of var met for inf and lea in gra mod ( bay net and mar ran eld ) .
we pre a num of exa of gra mod , inc the qmr - dt dat , the sig bel net , the bol mac , and sev var of hid mar mod , in whi it is inf to run exa inf alg .
we the int var met , whi exp law of lar num to tra the ori gra mod int a sim gra mod in whi inf is efc .
inf in the sim mod pro bou on pro of int in the ori mod .
we des a gen fra for gen var tra bas on con dua .
fin we ret to the exa and dem how var alg can be for in eac
key : gra mod , bay net , bel net , pro inf , app inf - enc , var met , mea eld met , hid mar mod , bol mac , neu net
the pro of pro inf in gra mod is the pro of com a con pro dis ove the val of som of the nod ( the hid or uno nod ) , giv the val of oth nod ( the evi or obs nod ) .
thu , let h rep the set of hid nod and let e rep the set of evi nod , we wis to cal p . h j e / :
p . h j e / d p . h; e /
jor et al .
gen exa inf alg hav bee dev to per thi cal ( jen , 123 sha , and , & szo , 123 she , 123 ) ; the alg tak sys - ati adv of the con ind pre in the joi dis as inf fro the pat of mis edg in the gra .
we oft als wis to cal mar pro in gra mod , in par the pro of the obs evi , p . e / .
vie as a fun of the par of the gra mod , for xed e , p . e / is an imp qua kno as the lik .
as is sug by eq .
( 123 ) , the eva of the lik is clo rel to the cal of p . h j e / .
ind , alt inf alg do not sim com the num and den of eq .
( 123 ) and div , the in fac gen pro the lik as a by - pro of the cal of p . h j e / .
mor , alg tha max lik ( and rel qua ) gen mak use of the cal of p . h j e / as a sub .
alt the are man cas in whi the exa alg pro a sat sol to inf and lea pro , the are oth cas , sev of whi we dis in thi pap , in whi the tim or spa com of the exa cal is una and it is nec to hav rec to app pro .
wit the con of the jun tre con , for exa , the tim com is exp in the siz of the max cli in the jun tre .
as we wil see , the are nat arc ass tha nec lea to lar cli .
eve in cas in whi the com of the exa alg is man , the can be rea to con app pro .
not in par tha the exa alg mak no use of the num rep of the joi pro dis ass - ate wit a gra mod put ano way , the alg hav the sam com reg of the par pro dis und con wit the fam of dis tha is con wit the con ind imp by the gra .
the may be sit in whi nod or clu of nod are nea con ind , sit in whi nod pro are wel det by a sub of the nei of the nod , or sit in whi sma sub of con of var con mos of the pro mas .
in suc cas the exa ach by an exa alg may not be wor the com cos .
a var of app pro - dur hav bee dev tha att to ide and exp suc sit .
exa inc the pru alg of kjr ( 123 ) , the bou con met of hor , sue , and coo ( 123 ) , sea - bas met ( e . g . , hen , 123 ) , and the loc par eva met of dra and han ( 123 ) .
a vir of all of the met is tha the are clo tie to the exa met and thu are abl to tak ful adv of con ind .
thi vir can als be a vic , how , giv the exp gro in com of the exa alg .
a rel app to app inf has ari in app of gra mod inf to err - con dec ( mce , mac , & che , 123 ) .
in par , kim and pea alg for sin - con gra mod ( pea , 123 ) has bee use suc as an ite app met for inf in non - sin - con
ano app to the des of app alg inv mak use of mon car met .
a var of mon car alg hav bee dev ( see nea ,
int to var met
123 ) and app to the inf pro in gra mod ( dag & lub , 123 fun & fav , 123 gil , tho , & spi , 123 jen , kon , & kjr , 123 pea , 123 ) .
adv of the alg inc the sim of imp and the gua of con .
the dis of the mon car app are tha the alg can be slo to con and it can be har to dia the con .
in thi pap we dis var met , whi pro yet ano app to the des of app inf alg .
var met yie det app pro tha gen pro bou on pro of int .
the bas int und var met is tha com gra can be pro - cal sim in par , in gra wit den con the are ave phe tha can com int pla , ren nod rel ins to par set of val - ues of the nei .
tak adv of the ave phe can lea to sim , acc app pro .
it is imp to emp tha the var app to inf tha we hav out are by no mea mut exc ind the exp com fea of the gra mod for .
the bes sol to any giv pro may wel inv an alg tha com asp of the dif met .
in thi vei , we wil pre var met in a way tha emp the lin to exa met .
ind , as we wil see , exa met oft app as sub wit an ove var app ( cf .
jaa & jor , 123 sau & jor , 123 ) .
it sho be ack at the out tha the is as muc art as the is sci in our cur und of how var met can be app to pro inf .
var tra for a lar , ope - end cla of app , and alt the is a gen mat pic of how the tra can be exp to yie bou on pro in gra mod , the is not as yet a sys alg tha all par var tra to be mat opt to par gra mod .
we wil pro ill exa of gen fam of gra mod to whi var met hav bee app suc , and we wil pro a gen mat fra whi enc all of the par exa , but we are not as yet abl to pro ass tha the fra wil tra eas to oth exa .
we beg in sec 123 wit a bri ove of exa inf in gra mod , bas the dis on the jun tre alg .
sec 123 pre sev exa of gra mod , bot to pro mot for var met and to pro exa tha we ret to and dev in det as we pro thr the pap .
the cor mat on var app is pre in sec 123
sec 123 and 123 ll in som of the det , foc on seq met and blo met , res .
in the lat two sec , we als ret to the exa and wor out var app in eac cas .
fin , sec 123 pre con and dir for fut res .
exa inf
in thi sec we pro a bri ove of exa inf for gra mod , as rep - sen by the jun tre alg ( for rel bet the jun tre alg
jor et al .
fig 123
a dir gra is par by ass a loc con pro wit eac nod .
the joi pro is the pro of the loc pro .
and oth exa inf alg , see sha , and , and szo ( 123 ) ; see als dec ( 123 ) , and she ( 123 ) , for rec dev in exa inf ) .
our int her is not to pro a com des of the jun tre alg , but rat to int the mor and tri ste of the alg .
an un - der of the ste , whi cre dat str tha det the run tim of the inf alg , wil suf for our pur . 123 for a com int to the jun tre alg see jen ( 123 ) .
gra mod com in two bas avo gra mod and und gra mod .
a dir gra mod ( als kno as a bay net ) is spe num by ass loc con pro wit eac of the nod in an acy dir gra .
the con pro spe the pro of nod si giv the val of its par , i . e . , p . si j s . i / / , whe . i / rep the set of ind of the par of nod si and s . i / rep the cor set of par nod ( see gur 123 ) . 123 to obt the joi pro dis for all of the n nod in the gra , i . e . , p . s / d p . s12 s12 : : : ; sn / , we tak the pro ove the loc nod pro :
p . s / d ny
si j s . i /
inf inv the cal of con pro und thi joi dis .
an und gra mod ( als kno as a mar ran eld ) is spe num by ass pot wit the cli of the gra . 123 a pot is a fun on the set of con of a cli ( tha is , a set of val for all of the nod in the cli ) tha ass a pos rea num wit eac con .
thu , for eve sub of nod ci tha for a cli , we hav an ass pot `i . ci / ( see gur 123 ) .
the joi pro dis for all of the nod in the gra is obt by tak the pro ove the cli pot :
`i . ci /
int to var met
fig 123
an und gra is par by ass a pot wit eac cli in the gra .
the cli in thi exa are c12 d fs1 s12 s12 , c12 d fs1 s12 s12 , and c12 d fs1 s12 s12 .
a pot ass a pos rea num to eac con of the cor cli .
the joi pro is the nor pro of the cli pot .
whe m is the tot num of cli and whe the nor fac z is obt by sum the num ove all con :
`i . ci /
in kee wit sta mec ter we wil ref to thi sum as a par
the jun tre alg com dir gra mod int und gra mod sub inf cal is car out in the und for .
the ste tha con the dir gra int an und gra is cal mor .
( if the ini gra is alr und , the we sim ski the mor ste ) .
to und mor , we not tha in bot the dir and the und cas , the joi pro dis is obt as a pro of loc fun .
in the dir cas , the fun are the nod con pro p . si j s . i / / .
in fac , thi pro nea qua as a pot fun it is cer a rea - val fun on the con of the set of var fsi ; s . i / g .
the pro is tha the var do not alw app tog wit a cli .
tha is , the par of a com chi are not nec lin .
to be abl to uti nod con pro as pot fun , we mar the par of all of the nod wit und edg .
mor we dro the arr on the oth edg in the gra .
the res is a mor gra , whi can be use to rep the pro dis on the ori dir gra wit the und for . 123
the sec pha of the jun tre alg is som mor com .
thi pha , kno as tri , tak a mor gra as inp and pro as out an und gra in whi add edg hav ( pos ) bee add .
thi lat gra has a spe
jor et al .
bet nod b and d ren the gra tri .
( a ) the sim non - tri gra .
the gra has a 123 - cyc wit a cho .
( b ) add a cho
pro tha all rec cal of pro to tak pla .
in par , in a tri gra , it is pos to bui up a joi dis by pro seq thr the gra , con blo of int nod onl on pre blo in the seq .
the sim gra in whi thi is not pos is the 123 - cyc , the cyc of fou nod sho in gur 123 ( a ) .
if we try to wri the joi pro seq as , for exa , p . a / p . b j a / p . c j b / p . d j c / , we see tha we hav a pro .
in par , a dep on d , and we are una to wri the joi pro as a seq of con .
a gra is not tri if the are 123 - cyc whi do not hav a cho , whe a cho is an edg bet non - nei nod .
thu the gra in gur 123 ( a ) is not tri it can be tri by add a cho as in gur 123 ( b ) .
in the lat gra we can wri the joi pro seq as p . a; b; c; d / d p . a / p . b; d j a / p . c j b; d / .
mor gen , onc a gra has bee tri it is pos to arr the cli of the gra int a dat str kno as a jun tre .
a jun tre has the run int pro : if a nod app in any two cli in the tre , it app in all cli tha lie on the pat bet the two cli .
thi pro has the imp con tha a gen alg for pro inf can be bas on ach loc con bet cli .
( tha is , the cli ass the sam mar pro to the nod tha the hav in com ) .
in a jun tre , bec of the run int pro , loc con imp glo con .
the pro cal tha are per on the jun tre inv mar - izi and res the cli pot so as to ach loc con bet nei - bor cli .
the tim com of per thi cal dep on the siz of the cli in par for dis dat the num of val req to rep the pot is exp in the num of nod in the cli .
for efc inf , it is the cri to obt sma cli .
in the rem of thi pap , we wil inv spe gra mod and con the com cos of exa inf for the mod .
in all of the cas we wil eit be abl to dis the obv tri , or we wil be abl to low bou the siz of cli in a tri gra by con the cli in the mor gra .
int to var met
thu we wil not nee to con spe alg for tri ( for dis of tri alg , see , e . g . , kjr , 123 ) .
in thi sec we pre exa of gra mod in whi exa inf is gen inf .
our rst exa inv a dia sys in whi a xed gra mod is use to ans que .
the rem exa inv est pro in whi a gra mod is t to dat and sub use for pre or dia .
the qmr - dt dat
the qmr - dt dat is a lar - sca pro dat tha is int to be use as a dia aid in the dom of int med . 123 we pro a bri ove of the qmr - dt dat her for fur det see shw et al .
( 123 ) .
the qmr - dt dat is a bip gra mod in whi the upp lay of nod rep dis and the low lay of nod rep sym ( see gur 123 ) .
the are app 123 dis nod and 123 sym nod in the dat .
the evi is a set of obs sym hen we ref to obs sym as ndi and rep the vec of ndi wit the sym f .
the sym d den the vec of dis .
all nod are bin , thu the com fi and di are bin ran var .
mak use of the con ind imp by the bip for of the gra , 123 and mar ove the uno sym nod , we obt the fol joi pro ove dis and ndi :
f; d / d p .
f j d / p . d / p .
fi j d /
p . d j /
fig 123
the str of the qmr - dt gra mod .
the sha nod rep evi nod and are ref to as ndi .
jor et al .
the pri pro of the dis , p . d j / , wer obt by shw et al .
fro arc dat .
the con pro of the ndi giv the dis , p .
fi j d / , wer ob - tai fro exp ass und a noi - or mod .
tha is , the con pro - bil tha the ith sym is abs , p .
fi d 123 d / , is exp as fol :
fi d 123 j d / d . 123 qi1 /
. 123 qi j / d j
whe the qi j are par obt fro the exp ass .
con the cas in whi all dis are abs , we see tha the qi1 par can be int as the pro tha the ith ndi is pre eve tho no dis is pre .
the eff of eac add dis , if pre , is to con an add fac of . 123 qi j / to the pro tha the ith ndi is abs .
we wil nd it use to rew the noi - or mod in an exp for :
fi d 123 j d / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j ( cid : 123 ) i12
whe ( cid : 123 ) i j ln . 123 qi j / are the tra par .
not als tha the pro of a pos ndi is giv as fol :
fi d 123 j d / d 123 exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j ( cid : 123 ) i12
the for exp the noi - or mod as a gen lin mod .
if we now for the joi pro dis by tak pro of the loc pro - bil p .
fi j d / as in eq .
( 123 ) , we see tha neg ndi are ben wit res to the inf pro .
in par , a pro of exp fac tha are lin in the dis ( cf .
( 123 ) ) yie a joi pro tha is als the exp of an exp lin in the dis .
tha is , eac neg ndi can be inc int the joi pro in a lin num of ope .
pro of the pro of pos ndi , on the oth han , yie cro pro ter tha are pro for exa inf .
the cro pro ter cou the dis ( the are res for the exp awa phe tha ari for the noi - or mod see pea , 123 ) .
unf , the cou ter can lea to an exp gro in inf com .
con a set of sta dia cas ( the cpc cas see shw et al . , 123 ) , jaa and jor ( 123 ) fou tha the med siz of the max cli of the mor qmr - dt gra is 123 nod .
thu eve wit con the tri ste , we see tha dia cal und the qmr - dt mod is gen inf . 123
int to var met
fig 123
the lay gra str of a neu net .
the inp nod and out nod com the set of evi nod .
neu net as gra mod
neu net are lay gra end wit a non act fun at eac nod ( see gur 123 ) .
let us con act fun tha are bou bet zer and one , suc as tho obt fro the log fun f . z / d 123 . 123 c e z / .
we can tre suc a neu net as a gra mod by ass a bin var si wit eac nod and int the act of the nod as the pro tha the ass bin var tak one of its two val .
for exa , usi the log fun , we wri :
si d 123
123 c exp
j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j ( cid : 123 ) i12
whe ( cid : 123 ) i j are the par ass wit edg bet par nod j and nod i , and ( cid : 123 ) i12 is the bia par ass wit nod i .
thi is the sig bel net int by nea ( 123 ) .
the adv of tre a neu net in thi man inc the abi to per dia cal , to han mis dat , and to tre uns lea on the sam foo as sup lea .
rea the ben , how , req tha the inf pro be sol in an efc way .
in fac , it is eas to see tha exa inf is inf in gen lay neu net mod .
a nod in a neu net gen has as par all of the nod in the pre lay .
thu the mor neu net gra has lin bet all of the nod in thi lay ( see gur 123 ) .
tha the lin are nec for exa inf in gen is cle par , dur tra of a neu net the out nod are evi nod , thu the hid uni in the pen lay bec pro dep , as do the anc in the pre hid lay .
thu if the are n hid uni in a par hid lay , the tim com of inf is at lea o . 123 / , ign the add gro in cli siz due to tri .
giv tha neu net wit doz or eve hun of hid uni are com , we see tha tra a neu net usi exa inf is not gen fea .
jor et al .
fig 123
mor of a neu net .
the out nod are evi nod dur tra .
thi cre pro dep bet the hid nod whi are cap by the edg add by the mor .
fig 123
a bol mac .
an edg bet nod si and s j is ass wit a fac exp . ( cid : 123 ) i j si s j / tha con mul to the pot of one of the cli con the edg .
eac nod als con a fac exp . ( cid : 123 ) i12 si / to one and onl one pot .
bol mac
a bol mac is an und gra mod wit bin - val nod and a res set of pot fun ( see gur 123 ) .
in par , the cli pot are for by tak pro of bol fac of ter tha are at mos qua in the si ( hin & sej , 123 ) .
thu eac cli pot is a pro of fac exp ( cid : 123 ) i j si s jg and fac exp ( cid : 123 ) i12 , whe si 123 f12 123 . 123 a giv pai of nod si and s j can app in mul , ove cli .
for eac suc pai we ass tha the exp exp ( cid : 123 ) i j si s jg app as a fac in one and onl one cli pot .
sim , the fac exp ( cid : 123 ) i12 are ass to app in one and onl one cli pot .
tak the pro ove all suc cli pot ( cf .
( 123 ) ) , we
p . s / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
int to var met
whe we hav set ( cid : 123 ) i j d 123 for nod si and s j tha are not nei in the gra con all us to sum ind ove all pai si and s j and sti res the cli bou .
we ref to the neg of the exp in eq .
( 123 ) as the ene .
wit thi den the joi pro in eq .
( 123 ) has the gen for of a bol
sau and jor ( 123 ) poi out tha exa inf for cer spe cas of bol mac as tre , cha , and pai of cou cha tra and the pro a dec alg for thi pur .
for mor gen bol mac , how , dec is not imm to the exp tim com tha pla oth exa met .
ind , des the fac tha the bol mac is a spe cla of und gra mod , it is a spe cla onl by vir of its par - ete , not by vir of its con ind str .
thu , exa alg suc as dec and the jun tre alg , whi are bas sol on the gra str of the bol mac , are no mor efc for bol mac tha the are for gen gra mod .
in par , whe we tri gen bol mac , inc the lay bol mac and gri - lik bol mac , we obt int lar cli .
sam alg hav tra bee use to att to cop wit the int - ity of the bol mac ( hin & sej , 123 ) .
the sam alg are ove slo , how , and mor rec wor has con the fas mea eld ap - pro ( pet & and , 123 ) .
we wil des the mea eld app for bol mac lat in the pap is a spe for of the var ap - pro app tha pro low bou on mar pro .
we wil als dis a mor gen var alg tha pro upp and low bou on pro ( mar and con ) for bol mac ( jaa & jor ,
hid mar mod
in thi sec , we bri rev hid mar mod .
the hid mar mod ( hmm ) is an exa of a gra mod in whi exa inf is tra our pur in dis hmm her is to lay the gro for the dis of int var on hmm in the fol sec .
see smy , hec , and jor ( 123 ) for a ful dis of the hmm as a gra mod .
an hmm is a gra mod in the for of a cha ( see gur 123 ) .
con a seq of mul sta nod xi and ass tha the con pro of nod xi , giv its imm pre xi1 , is ind of all oth pre var .
( the ind i can be tho of as a tim ind ) .
the cha is ass to be hom tha is , the mat of tra pro , a d p . xi j xi1 / , is inv acr tim .
we als req a pro dis d p . x12 / for the ini sta x12
the hmm mod als inv a set of out nod yi and an emi pro law b d p . yi j xi / , aga ass tim - inv .
jor et al .
fig 123
a hmm rep as a gra mod .
the lef - to - rig spa dim rep tim .
the out nod yi are evi nod dur the tra pro and the sta nod xi are hid .
an hmm is tra by tre the out nod as evi nod and the sta nod as hid nod .
an exp - max ( em ) alg ( bau et al . , 123 dem , lai , & rub , 123 ) is gen use to upd the par a; b; ; thi alg inv a sim ite pro hav two alt ste : ( 123 ) run an inf alg to cal the con pro p . xi jfy / and p . xi ; xi1 jfy / ; ( 123 ) upd the par via wei max lik whe the wei are giv by the con pro cal in ste ( 123 ) .
it is eas to see tha exa inf is tra for hmm .
the mor and tri - gul ste are vac for the hmm thu the tim com can be rea off fro gur 123 dir .
we see tha the max cli is of siz n 123 , whe n is the dim of a sta nod .
inf the sca as o . n 123 / , whe t is the len of the tim
fac hid mar mod
in man pro dom it is nat to mak add str ass abo the sta spa and the tra pro tha are not ava wit the sim hmm fra .
a num of str var on hmm hav bee con in rec yea ( see smy et al . , 123 ) ; gen the var can be vie as dyn bel net ( dea & kan , 123 kan , kol , & rus , 123 ) .
her we con a par sim var on the hmm the kno as the fac hid mar mod ( gha & jor , 123 wil & hin , 123 ) .
the gra mod for a fac hmm ( fhm ) is sho in gur 123
the sys is com of a set of m cha ind by m .
let the sta nod for the mth cha at tim i be rep by x . m / and let the tra mat for the mth cha be rep - res by a . m / .
we can vie the eff sta spa for the fhm as the car pro of the sta spa ass wit the ind cha .
the ove tra pro for the sys is obt by tak the pro acr the int - cha tra
int to var met
fig 123
a fac hmm wit thr cha .
the tra mat are a . 123 / , a . 123 / , and a . 123 / ass wit the hor edg , and the out pro are det by mat b . 123 / , b . 123 / , and b . 123 / ass wit the ver edg .
p . xi j xi1 / d my
whe the sym xi sta for the m - tup . x . 123 /
; x . 123 /
; : : : ; x . m /
gha and jor uti a lin - gau dis for the emi pro -
bil of the fhm .
in par , the ass :
p . yi j xi / d n
b . m / x . m /
whe the b . m / and 123 are mat of par .
the fhm is a nat mod for sys in whi the hid sta is rea via the joi con of an unc set of dyn sys .
mor , an fhm is abl to rep a lar eff sta spa wit a muc sma num of par tha a sin uns car pro hmm .
for exa , if we hav 123 cha and in eac cha the nod hav 123 sta , the eff sta spa is of siz 123 , 123 , whi the tra pro are rep com wit onl 123 par .
a sin uns hmm wou req 123 par for the tra mat in thi cas .
the fac tha the out is a fun of the sta of all of the cha imp tha the sta bec sto cou whe the out are obs .
let us inv the imp of thi fac for the tim com of exa inf in the fhm .
fig 123 sho a tri for the cas of two cha ( in fac thi is an opt tri ) .
jor et al .
fig 123
a tri of an fhm wit two com cha .
the mor ste lin sta at a sin tim ste .
the tri ste lin sta dia bet nei tim ste .
fig 123
a tri of the sta nod of a thr - cha fhm wit thr com cha .
( the obs - vat nod hav bee omi in the int of sim . )
fig 123
thi gra is not a tri of a thr - cha fhm .
the cli for the hid sta are of siz n 123 thu the tim com of exa inf is o . n 123 / , whe n is the num of sta in eac cha ( we ass tha eac cha has the sam num of sta for sim ) .
fig 123 sho the cas of a tri of thr cha her the tri ( aga opt ) cre cli of siz n 123
( not in par tha the gra in gur 123 , wit cli of siz thr , is not a tri the
int to var met
are 123 - cyc wit a cho ) .
in the gen cas , it is not dif to see tha cli of siz n mc1 are cre , whe m is the num of cha thu the com of exa inf for the fhm sca as o . n mc1 / .
for a sin uns car pro hmm hav the sam num of sta as the fhm . e . , n m sta com sca as o . n 123 t / , thu exa inf for the fhm is som les cos , but the exp gro in com in eit cas sho tha exa inf is inf for
hig - ord hid mar mod
a rel var on hmm con a hig - ord mar mod in whi eac sta dep on the pre k sta ins of the sin pre sta .
in thi cas it is aga rea sho tha the tim com is exp in k .
we wil not dis the hig - ord hmm fur in thi pap for a var alg for the hig - ord hmm see sau and jor ( 123 ) .
hid mar dec tre
fin , we con a mod in whi a dec tre is end wit mar dyn ( jor , gha , & sau , 123 ) .
a dec tre can be vie as a gra mod by mod the dec in the tre as mul ran var , one for eac lev of the dec tre .
ref to gur 123 , and foc on a par tim sli , the sha nod at the top of the dia rep the inp vec .
the uns nod bel the inp nod are the dec nod .
eac of the dec nod are con on the inp
fig 123
a hid mar dec tre .
the sha nod fui and fyi rep a tim ser in whi eac ele is an ( inp , out ) pai .
lin the inp and out are a seq of dec nod whi cor to bra in a dec tre .
the dec are lin hor to rep mar tem
jor et al .
and on the ent seq of pre dec ( the ver arr in the dia ) .
in ter of a tra dec tre dia , thi dep pro an ind of the pat fol by the dat poi as it dro thr the dec tre .
the nod at the bot of the dia is the out var .
if we now mak the dec in the dec tre con not onl on the cur dat poi , but als on the dec at the pre mom in tim , we obt a hid mar dec tre ( hmd ) .
in gur 123 , the hor edg rep thi mar tem dep .
not in par tha the dep is ass to be lev - spe pro of a dec dep onl on the pre dec at the sam lev of the
giv a seq of inp vec ui and a cor seq of out vec yi , the inf pro is to com the con pro dis ove the hid sta .
thi pro is int for gen hmd can be see by not tha the hmd inc the fhm as a spe cas .
bas of var met
var met are use as app met in a wid var of set , inc - ing nit ele ana ( bat , 123 ) , qua mec ( sak , 123 ) , sta mec ( par , 123 ) , and sta ( rus , 123 ) .
in eac of the cas the app - tio of var met con a com pro int a sim pro , whe the sim pro is gen cha by a dec of the deg of fre in the ori pro .
thi dec is ach via an exp of the pro to inc add par , kno as var par , tha mus be t to the pro at
the ter com fro the roo of the tec in the cal of var .
we wil not sta sys fro the cal of var ins , we wil jum off fro an int poi tha emp the imp rol of con in var app .
thi poi of vie tur out to be par wel sui to the dev of var met for gra mod .
let us beg by con a sim exa .
in par , let us exp the log
ln . x / d min
fx ln 123 :
in thi exp is the var par , and we are req to per the min - imi for eac val of x .
the exp is rea ver by tak the der wit res to , sol and sub .
the sit is per bes app geo - met , as we sho in gur 123
not tha the exp in bra in eq .
( 123 ) is lin in x wit slo .
cle , giv the con of the log , for eac lin hav slo
int to var met
fig 123
var tra of the log fun .
the lin fun . x ln 123 / for a fam of upp bou for the log , eac of whi is exa for a par val of x .
the is a val of the int suc tha the lin tou the log at a sin poi .
ind , ln 123 in eq .
( 123 ) is pre thi int .
mor , if we ran acr , the fam of suc lin for an upp env of the log fun .
tha is , for any giv x , we hav :
ln . x / x ln 123
for all .
thu the var tra pro a fam of upp bou on the log .
the min ove the bou is the exa val of the log .
the pra jus for suc a tra is tha we hav con a non fun int a lin fun .
the cos is tha we hav obt a fre par tha mus be set , onc for eac x .
for any val of we obt an upp bou on the log if we set wel we can obt a goo bou .
ind we can rec the exa val of log for the opt cho of .
let us now con a sec exa tha is mor dir rel to gra mod .
for bin - val nod it is com to rep the pro tha the nod tak one of its val via a mon non tha is a sim fun . g . , a lin fun the val of the par of the nod .
an exa is the log reg mod :
f . x / d
123 c ex
whi we hav see pre in eq .
her x is the wei sum of the val of the par of a nod .
jor et al .
the log fun is nei con nor con , so a sim lin bou wil not
how , the log fun is log con .
tha is , the fun
g . x / d ln . 123 c e
is a con fun of x ( as can rea be ver by cal the sec der ) .
thu we can bou the log log fun wit lin fun and the bou the log fun by the exp .
in par , we can wri :
g . x / d min
fx h . / g;
whe h . / is the bin ent fun , h . / d ln . 123 / ln . 123 / .
( we wil exp how the bin ent fun ari bel for now it suf to thi of it sim as the app int ter for the log log fun ) .
we now tak the exp of bot sid , not tha the min and the exp fun com :
f . x / d min
thi is a var tra for the log fun exa are plo in g - ure 123
fin , we not onc aga tha for any val of we obt an upp bou of the log fun for all val of x :
f . x / exh . / :
goo cho for pro bet bou .
fig 123
var tra of the log fun .
int to var met
the adv of the tra in eq .
( 123 ) are sig in the con of gra mod .
in par , to obt the joi pro in a gra mod we are req to tak a pro ove the loc con pro ( cf .
for con pro rep wit log reg , we obt pro of fun of the for f . x / d 123 . 123 x / .
suc a pro is not in a sim for .
if ins we aug our net rep by inc var par . e .
rep eac log fun var as in eq .
( 123 ) we see tha a bou on the joi pro is obt by tak pro of exp .
thi is tra com , par so giv tha the exp are lin in x .
con dua
can we nd var tra mor sys ? ind , man of the var - ati tra tha hav bee uti in the lit on gra mod are exa of the gen pri of con dua .
it is a gen fac of con ana ( roc , 123 ) tha a con fun f . x / can be rep via a con or dua fun as fol : f . x / d min
ft x f
. / can be obt
whe we now all x and to be vec .
the con fun f fro the fol dua exp : ft x f . x / g :
. / d min
thi rel is eas und geo , as sho in gur 123
her we plo f . x / and the lin fun x for a par val of .
the sho ver seg
fig 123
the con fun f lin x and f . x / .
. / is obt by min acr the dev as das
jor et al .
rep val x f . x / .
it is cle fro the gur tha we nee to shi the lin fun x ver by an amo whi is the min of the val x f . x / in ord to obt an upp bou lin wit slo tha tou f . x / at a sin poi .
thi obs bot jus the for of the con fun , as a min ove dif x f . x / , and exp why the con fun app as the int in eq .
ln c 123 , and the con fun for the log log fun is the bin ent h . / .
alt we hav foc on upp bou in thi sec , the fra of con
it is an eas exe to ver tha the con fun for the log is f
dua app equ wel to low bou in par for con f . x / we hav :
f . x / d max
ft x f
. / d max
ft x f . x / g
is the con fun .
we hav foc on lin bou in thi sec , but con dua is not res to lin bou .
mor gen bou can be obt by tra the arg of the fun of int rat tha the val of the fun ( jaa & jor , 123 ) .
for exa , if f . x / is con in x 123 we can wri :
fx 123 nf
f . x / d min . / is the con fun of nf . x / f . x 123 / .
thu the tra yie a qua bou on f . x / .
it is als wor not tha suc tra can be com wit the log tra uti ear to obt gau rep for the upp bou .
thi can be use in obt var app for pos dis ( jaa & jor , 123 ) .
to sum , the gen met sug by con dua is the fol .
we wis to obt upp or low bou on a fun of int .
if the fun is alr con or con the we sim cal the con fun .
if the fun is not con or con , the we loo for an inv tra tha ren the fun con or con .
we may als con tra of the arg of the fun .
we the cal the con fun in the tra spa and tra bac .
for thi app to be use we nee to nd a tra , suc as the log , who inv has use alg pro .
app for joi pro and con pro
the dis thu far has foc on app for the loc pro dis at the nod of a gra mod .
how do the app tra int app - tio for the glo pro of int , in par for the con dis
int to var met
p . h j e / tha is our int in the inf pro and the mar pro p . e / tha is our int in lea pro ? let us foc on dir gra for con .
sup tha we hav a low bou and an upp bou for eac of the loc con pro p . si j s . i / / .
tha is , ass tha we hav for pu . si j s . i / ; u / and p l . si j s . i / ; l / , pro upp and low bou , res , whe u i and l i are ( gen dif ) var par - met app for the upp and low bou .
con rst the upp bou .
giv tha the pro of upp bou is an upp bou , we hav :
s . i / ; u
thi ine hol for arb set of val of the var par u mor , eq .
( 123 ) mus hol for any sub of s whe som oth sub is hel xed thi imp tha upp bou on mar pro can be obt by tak sum ove the var for on the rig - han sid of the equ .
for exa , let e and h be a dis par of s , we hav :
p . e / d
p . h; e /
s . i / ; u
whe , as we wil see in the exa to be dis bel , we cho the var for pu . si j s . i / ; u / so tha the sum ove h can be car out efc ( thi is the key ste in dev a var met ) .
in eit eq .
( 123 ) or eq .
( 123 ) , giv tha the upp bou hol for any set of val the var par u i , the hol in par for opt set of the par .
tha is , we can tre the rig - han sid of eq .
( 123 ) or the rig - han sid of eq .
( 123 ) as a fun to be min wit res to u i .
in the lat cas , thi opt pro wil ind int bet the par u i .
the int are des ind the are cri for obt a goo var bou on the mar pro of int .
in par , the bes glo bou are obt whe the pro dep in the dis are ree in dep in the app .
to cla the nat of var bou , not tha the is an imp dis to be mad bet joi pro ( eq .
( 123 ) ) and mar pro ( eq .
( 123 ) , if we all the var par to be set opt for eac val of the arg s , the it is pos ( in pri ) to nd opt set of the var par tha rec the exa val of the joi pro .
( her we ass tha the loc pro p . si j s . i / / can be rep exa via a var tra , as in the exa dis in sec 123 ) .
( 123 ) , on the oth han , we are not gen abl to rec exa val of the mar by opt ove var par tha dep onl on the arg e .
con , for exa , the cas of a nod si 123 e tha has par in h .
jor et al .
as we ran acr fhg the wil be sum on the rig - han sid of eq .
( 123 ) tha wil inv eva the loc pro p . si j s . i / / for dif val of the par s . i / .
if the var par u i dep onl on e , we can in gen exp to obt an exa rep for p . si j s . i / / in eac sum .
thu , som of the sum in eq .
( 123 ) are nec bou and not exa val .
thi obs pro a bit of ins int rea why a var bou mig be exp to be tig in som cir and loo in oth .
in par , if p . si j s . i / / is nea con as we ran acr s . i / , or if we are ope at a poi whe the var rep is fai ins to the set of u ( for exa the rig - han sid of the log in gur 123 ) , the the bou may be exp to be tig .
on the oth han , if the con are not pre one mig exp tha the bou wou be loo .
how the sit is com by the int bet the u are ind dur the opt pro .
we wil ret to the iss in the dis .
alt we hav dis upp bou , sim com app to low bou , and to mar pro obt fro low bou on the joi dis .
the con dis p . h j e / , on the oth han , is the rat of two mar dis i . e . , p . h j e / d p . h; e / =p . e / . 123 to obt upp and low bou on the con dis , we mus hav upp and low bou on bot the num and the den .
gen spe , how , if we can obt upp and low bou on the den , the our lab is ess nis , bec the num inv few sum .
ind , in the cas in whi s d h ( e , the num inv no sum and is sim a fun eva .
fin , it is wor not tha var met can als be of int sim as tra app rat tha as met tha pro str bou ( muc as sam - pli met are use ) .
one way to do thi is to obt a var app tha is a bou for a mar pro , and to sub the var par thu obt int the con pro dis .
thu , for exa , we mig obt a low bou on the lik p . e / by tti var par .
we can sub - tut the par int the par var for for p . h; e / and the uti thi var for as an efc inf eng in cal an app to p . h j e / .
in the fol sec we wil ill the gen var fra as it has bee app in a num of wor - out exa .
all of the exa inv arc - tur of pra int and pro con exa of var met .
to a cer deg the exa als ser as cas his tha can be gen to rel arc .
it is imp to emp , how , tha it is not nec str - war to dev a var app for a new arc .
the eas and the uti of app the met out in thi sec dep on arc det , inc the cho of nod pro fun , the gra top and the par par reg in whi the mod is ope .
in par , cer cho of nod con pro fun len the mor rea tha oth to var tra - tio tha hav use alg pro .
als , cer arc sim mor rea und var tra tha oth in par , the mar bou in eq .
( 123 ) are sim fun in som cas and com in oth .
the iss are cur not
int to var met
wel und and the dev of eff var app can in som cas req sub cre .
seq and blo met
let us now con in som mor det how var met can be app to pro inf pro .
the bas ide is tha sug abo wis to sim the joi pro dis by tra the loc pro fun .
by an app cho of var tra , we can sim the for of the joi pro dis and the sim the inf pro .
we can tra som or all of the nod .
the cos of per suc tra is tha we obt bou or app to the pro rat tha exa res .
the opt of tra onl som of the nod is imp it imp a rol for the exa met as sub wit a var app .
in par , par tra of the gra may lea som of the ori gra str int and / or int new gra str to whi exa met can be fru app .
in gen , we wis to use var app in a lim way , tra the gra int a sim gra to whi exa met can be app .
thi wil in gen yie tig bou tha an alg tha tra the ent gra wit reg for com tra sub .
the maj of var alg pro in the lit to dat can be div int two mai cla : seq and blo .
in the seq app , nod are tra in an ord tha is det dur the inf pro .
thi app has the adv of exi and gen , all the par pat of evi to det the bes cho of nod to tra .
in som cas , how , par whe the are obv sub in a gra whi are ame to exa met , it can be adv to des in adv the nod to be tra .
we wil see tha thi blo app is par nat in the set of par est .
the seq app
the seq app int var tra for the nod in a par - lar ord .
the goa is to tra the net unt the res tra net is ame to exa met .
as we wil see in the exa bel , cer var tra - for can be und gra as a spa in whi nod are rem fro the gra .
if a suf num of var tra are int the res gra bec suf spa suc tha an exa met bec app .
an ope den of spa can be obt by run a gre tri alg upp bou the run tim of the jun tre inf alg .
the are bas two way to imp the seq app can beg wit the unt gra and int var tra one nod at a tim , or one can beg wit a com tra gra and rei exa con pro one nod at a tim .
an adv of the lat app is tha the gra rem tra at all tim thu it is fea to dir cal the qua eff
jor et al .
of tra or rei a giv nod .
in the for app the gra is int thr the sea , and the onl way to ass a tra is via its qua eff on gra spa .
the seq app is per bes pre in the con of a spe exa .
in the fol sec we ret to the qmr - dt net and sho how a seq var app can be use for inf in thi net .
the qmr - dt net
jaa and jor ( 123 ) pre an app of seq var met to the qmr - dt net .
as we hav see , the qmr - dt net is a bip gra in whi the con pro for the ndi are bas on the noi - or mod ( eq .
( 123 ) for the neg ndi and eq .
( 123 ) for the pos ndi ) .
not tha sym nod tha are not ndi . e . , sym tha are not obs sim be mar out of the joi dis by omi and the the hav no imp on inf .
mor , as we hav dis , the neg ndi pre no dif for inf the exp for of the pro in eq .
( 123 ) , the eff of neg ndi on the dis pro can be han in lin tim .
let us the ass tha the upd ass wit the neg ndi hav alr bee mad and foc on the pro of per inf whe the are pos ndi .
rep eq .
( 123 ) for con , we hav the fol rep for the pro -
bil of a pos ndi :
fi d 123 j d / d 123 exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j ( cid : 123 ) i12
the fun 123 e x is log con thu , as in the cas of the log fun , we are abl to exp the var upp bou in ter of the exp of a lin fun .
x ex f
whe the con fun is as fol : . / d ln c .
c 123 / ln
plu the arg of eq .
( 123 ) int eq .
( 123 ) , and not tha we nee a dif var - tio par i for eac tra nod , we obt :
fi d 123 j d / exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
( ei ( cid : 123 ) i j ) d j :
d ei ( cid : 123 ) i12 f
int to var met
fig 123
the qmr - dt gra aft the lig sha ndi has bee sub to a var tra .
the eff is equ to del the nod fro the gra .
the nal equ dis the eff of the var tra .
the exp fac out of the pro is sim a con .
the pro is tak ove all nod in the par set for nod i , but unl the cas in whi the gra is mor for exa com , the con ass wit the d j nod are unc .
tha is , eac fac exp . i ( cid : 123 ) i j / is sim a con tha can be mul int the pro tha was pre ass wit nod d j ( for d j d 123 ) .
the is no cou of d j and dk nod as the wou be if we had tak pro of the unt noi - or .
thu the gra eff of the var tra is as sho in gur 123 the var tra del the ith ndi fro the gra .
in our par exa , the gra is now ren sin con and an exa inf alg can be inv .
( rec tha mar ove the uno sym sim rem the fro the gra ) .
the seq met uti by jaa and jor beg wit a com tra gra and the rei exa con pro at sel nod .
to cho the ord in whi to rei nod , jaa and jor mak use of a heu , bas the cho on the eff on the lik bou of rei eac nod ind sta fro the com tra sta .
des the sub of thi heu , the fou tha it yie an app tha was ord of mag mor acc tha tha of an alg tha use a ran ord .
giv the ord the alg the pro as fol : ( 123 ) cho the nex nod in the ord , and con the eff of rei the lin ass wit the nod int the cur gra .
( 123 ) if the res gra is sti ame to exa met , rei the nod and ite .
oth sto and run an exa met .
fin , ( 123 ) we mus als cho the par i so as to mak the app as tig as pos .
it is not dif to ver tha pro of the exp in eq .
( 123 ) yie an ove bou tha is a con fun of the i par ( jaa & jor , 123 ) .
thu sta opt alg can be use to nd goo cho for the i .
fig 123 sho res fro jaa and jor ( 123 ) for app inf on fou of the cpc cas tha wer men ear .
for the fou cas the wer a suf sma num of pos ndi tha an exa alg cou be run to pro a gol sta for com .
the lef gur sho upp and low bou
jor et al .
( a ) exa val and var upp and low bou on the log - lik for the fou tra cpc cas .
( b ) the mea cor bet the app and exa pos mar as a fun of the exe tim ( sec ) .
sol lin : var est das lin : lik - wei sam .
the lin abo and bel the sam res rep sta err of the mea bas on the ten ind run of
on the log - lik for the cas .
jaa and jor als cal app pos mar for the dis .
the cor of the mar wit the gol sta are sho in the rig gur .
thi gur plo acc aga run tim , for run in whi 123 , 123 , and 123 pos ndi wer tre exa .
not tha acc val wer obt in les tha a sec .
the gur als sho res fro a sta - of - the - art sam alg ( the lik - wei sam of shw and coo , 123 ) .
the sam req sig mor com tim tha the var met to obt rou com acc .
jaa and jor ( 123 ) als pre res for the ent cor of cpc cas .
the aga fou tha the var met yie rea acc est of the pos pro of the dis ( usi len run of the sam as a bas for com ) wit les tha a sec of com tim .
the bol mac
let us now con a rat dif exa .
as we hav dis , the bol mac is a spe sub of the cla of und gra mod in whi the pot fun are com of pro of qua and lin bol fac .
jaa and jor ( 123 ) int a seq var alg for app inf in the bol mac .
the met , whi we dis in thi sec , yie bot upp and low bou on mar and con pro of int .
rec the for of the joi pro dis for the bol mac :
p . s / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
to obt mar pro suc as p . e / und thi joi dis , we mus cal sum ove exp of qua ene fun .
mor , to obt con
int to var met
pro suc as p . h j e / d p . h; e / =p . e / , we tak rat of suc sum , whe the num req few sum tha the den .
the mos gen suc sum is the par fun its , whi is a sum ove all con fsg .
let us the foc on upp and low bou for the par fun as the gen cas thi all us to cal bou on any oth mar or con of int .
our app is to per the sum one sum at a tim , int var tra - for to ens tha the res exp sta com tra .
in fac , at eve ste of the pro tha we des , the tra pot inv no mor tha qua bol fac .
( exa met can be vie as cre inc hig - ord ter whe the mar sum are per ) .
thu the tra bol mac rem a bol mac .
let us rst con low bou .
we wri the par fun as fol :
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j
and att to nd a tra low bou on the inn sum ove si on the rig - han sid .
it is not dif to sho tha thi exp is log con .
thu we bou its log
f j <kg
f j <kg
f j <kg
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j c ln
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j c ln
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j c l
( cid : 123 ) j12 j
123 c exp
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
whe the sum in the rst ter on the rig - han sid is a sum ove all pai j < k suc tha nei j nor k is equ to i , whe h . / is as bef the bin ent fun , and whe is the var par ass wit nod si .
in the rst lin we hav sim pul out of the sum all of tho ter not inv si , and in the sec lin we hav per the sum ove the two val of si .
fin , to low bou the exp in eq .
( 123 ) we nee onl low bou the ter ln . 123 ex / on the rig - han sid .
but we hav alr fou var bou for a rel exp in tre the log fun rec eq .
the upp bou in tha cas tra int the low bou in the cur
jor et al .
fig 123
the tra of the bol mac und the app mar ove nod si for the cas of low bou .
( a ) the bol mac bef the tra .
( b ) the bol mac aft the tra , whe si has bec del .
all of the pai par , ( cid : 123 ) jk , for j and k not equ to i , hav rem una .
as sug by the wav lin , the lin coe hav cha for tho nod tha wer nei of si .
ln . 123 c e
x / x c h . / :
thi is the bou tha we hav uti in eq
let us con the gra con of the bou in eq .
( 123 ) ( see gur 123 ) .
not tha for all nod in the gra oth tha nod si and its nei , the bol fac are una ( see the rst two ter in the bou ) .
thu the gra is una for suc nod .
fro the ter in par we see tha the nei of nod si hav bee end wit new lin ter imp , how , the nod hav not bec lin ( as the wou hav bec if we had don the exa mar ) .
nei tha wer lin pre rem lin wit the sam ( cid : 123 ) jk par .
nod si is abs fro the tra par fun and thu abs fro the gra , but it has lef its tra via the new lin bol fac ass wit its nei .
we can sum the eff of the tra by not tha the tra gra is a new bol mac wit one few nod and the fol par :
q ( cid : 123 ) jk d ( cid : 123 ) jk q ( cid : 123 ) j12 d ( cid : 123 ) j12 c l
j; k 123 i j 123 i :
( cid : 123 ) i12 c h . l
not nal tha we als hav a con ter l / to kee tra of .
thi ter wil hav an int int whe we ret to the bol mac lat in the con of blo met .
upp bou are obt in a sim way .
we aga bre the par fun int a sum ove a par nod si and a sum ove the con of the rem nod sns .
mor , the rst thr lin of the ens der lea to eq .
( 123 ) are ide
int to var met
com the der we now nd an upp bou on ln . 123 c ex / .
jaa and jor ( 123 ) pro usi qua bou for thi pur .
in par , the not tha :
ln . 123 c ex / d ln . ex= c e
x=1 / c x
and tha ln . ex= c e x=1 / is a con fun of x 123 ( as can be ver by tak the sec der wit res to x 123 ) .
thi imp tha ln . 123 c ex / mus hav a qua upp bou of the fol for : ln . 123 c ex / x 123 c x . / is an app den con fun .
usi the upp bou in
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j
( 123 ) we obt :
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) j12 j
! 123 c 123
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
f j <kg
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
is the var par ass wit nod si .
the gra con of thi tra are som dif tha tho of the low bou ( see gur 123 ) .
con the rst two ter in the bou , we see tha
fig 123
the tra of the bol mac und the app mar ove nod si for the cas of upp bou .
( a ) the bol mac bef the tra .
( b ) the bol mac aft the tra , whe si has bec del .
as the das edg sug , all of the nei of si hav bec lin and tho tha wer for lin hav new par val .
as sug by the wav lin , the nei of si als hav new lin coe .
all oth edg and par are una .
q ( cid : 123 ) jk d ( cid : 123 ) jk c 123 q ( cid : 123 ) j12 d ( cid : 123 ) j12 c ( cid : 123 ) i j
( cid : 123 ) ji ( cid : 123 ) ik
( cid : 123 ) i12 ( cid : 123 ) i j c u
j; k 123 i j 123 i :
jor et al .
it is sti the cas tha the gra is una for all nod in the gra oth tha nod si and its nei , and mor nei of si tha wer pre lin rem lin .
the qua ter , how , giv ris to new lin bet the pre unl nei of nod si and alt the par bet pre lin nei .
eac of the nod als acq a new lin ter .
exp eq .
( 123 ) and col ter , we see tha the app mar has yie a bol mac wit the fol
fin , the con ter is giv by ( cid : 123 ) i12 c u the gra con of the low and upp bou tra als hav com - put con .
in par , giv tha the low bou tra int no add lin whe nod are del , it is som mor nat to com the tra wit exa met .
in par , the alg sim del nod unt a tra str ( suc as a tre ) is rev at thi poi an exa alg is cal as a sub .
the upp bou tra , on the oth han , by int lin bet the nei of a del nod , doe not rev tra str as rea .
thi see dis is mit by the fac tha the upp bou is a tig bou ( jaa & jor , 123 ) .
the blo app
an alt app to var inf is to des in adv a set of nod tha are to be tra .
we can in pri vie thi blo app as an off - lin app of the seq app .
in the cas of low bou , how , the are ad - van to be gai by dev a met tha is spe to blo tra .
in thi sec , we sho tha a nat glo mea of app acc can be obt for low bou via a blo ver of the var for .
the met mes rea wit exa met in cas in whi tra sub can be ide - ed in the gra .
thi app was rst pre by sau and jor ( 123 ) , as a ren ver of mea eld the for mar ran eld , and has bee dev fur in a num of rec stu ( e . g . , gha & jor , 123 gha & hin , 123 jor et al . , 123 ) .
in the blo app , we beg by ide a sub in the gra of int tha we kno is ame to exa inf met ( or , mor gen , to efc app inf met ) .
for exa , we mig pic out a tre or a set of cha in the ori gra .
we wis to use thi sim str to app the pro dis on the ori gra .
to do so , we con a fam of pro dis tha are obt fro the sim gra via the int of var par .
we cho a par app dis fro the sim fam by mak a par cho for the var par .
as in the seq app a new cho of var par mus be mad eac tim new evi is ava .
int to var met
mor for , let p . s / rep the joi dis on the gra mod of int , whe as bef s rep all of the nod of the gra and h and e are dis sub of s rep the hid nod and the evi nod , res .
we wis to app the con pro p . h j e / .
we int an app fam of con pro dis , q . h j e ; / , whe are var par .
the gra rep q is not gen the sam as the gra rep p; gen it is a sub - gra .
fro the fam of app dis q , we cho a par dis by min the kul - lei ( kl ) div , d . q k p / , wit res to the var par :
d arg min d . q . h j e ; / k p . h j e / / ;
d . q k p / d
whe for any pro dis q . s / and p . s / the kl div is den as
the min val of the var par , , den a par dis - tio , q . h j e ; / , tha we tre as the bes app of p . h j e / in the fam q . h j e ; / .
one sim jus for usi the kl div as a mea of app acc is tha it yie the bes low bou on the pro of the evi p . e / ( i . e . , the lik ) in the fam of app q . h j e ; / .
ind , we bou the log of p . e / usi jen ine as fol :
p . h; e /
ln p . e / d ln
q . h j e / p . h; e / q . h j e / p . h; e / q . h j e /
q . h j e / ln
the dif bet the lef and rig han sid of thi equ is eas see to be the kl div d . q k p / .
thu , by the pos of the kl div ( cov & tho , 123 ) , the rig - han sid of eq .
( 123 ) is a low bou on p . e / .
mor , by cho acc to eq .
( 123 ) , we obt the tig low bou .
con dua and the kl div
we can als jus the cho of kl div by mak an app to con dua the , the lin the blo app wit the seq app ( jaa , 123 ) .
con , for sim , the cas of dis - val nod h .
the dis q . h j e ; /
jor et al .
can be vie as a vec of rea num , one for eac con of the var h .
tre thi vec as the vec - val var par in eq .
mor , the log pro ln p . h; e / can als be vie as a vec of rea num , den on the set of con of h .
tre thi vec as the var x in eq .
fin , den f . x / to be ln p . e / .
it can be ver tha the fol exp for ln p . e / :
ln p . e / d ln
eln p . h;e /
is ind con in the val ln p . h; e / .
mor , by dir sub in eq
. q / d min
q . h j e ; / ln p . h; e / ln p . e /
and min wit res to ln p . h; e / , the con fun f the neg ent fun low bou the log lik as fol :
. q / is see to be fhg q . h j e / ln q . h j e / .
thu , usi eq .
( 123 ) , we can
ln p . e /
q . h j e / ln p . h; e / q . h j e / ln q . h j e /
thi is ide to eq .
mor , we see tha we cou in pri rec the exa log lik if q wer all to ran ove all pro dis q . h j e / .
by ran ove a par fam q . h j e ; / , we obt the tig low bou tha is ava wit the fam .
par est via var met
nea and hin ( 123 ) hav poi out tha the low bou in eq .
( 123 ) has a use rol to pla in the con of max lik par est .
in par , the mak a lin bet thi low bou and par est via the em alg .
let us aug our not to inc par ( cid : 123 ) in the spe of the joi pro dis p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / .
as bef , we des a sub of the nod e as the obs evi .
the mar pro p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / , tho of as a fun of ( cid : 123 ) , is kno as the lik .
the em alg is a met for max lik par est tha hil in the log lik .
it doe so by mak use of the con rel bet ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / and ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / des in the pre sec .
in sec 123 we sho tha the fun
l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / d
q . h j e / ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / q . h j e / ln q . h j e /
is a low bou on the log lik for any pro dis q . h j e / .
mor , we sho tha the dif bet ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / and the bou l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / is the kl div bet q . h j e / and p . h j e / .
sup now tha we all q . h j e / to
int to var met
ran ove all pos pro dis on h and min the kl div .
it is a sta res ( cf .
cov & tho , 123 ) tha the kl div is min by cho q . h j e / d p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / , and tha the min val is zer .
thi is ver by sub p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / int the rig - han sid of eq .
( 123 ) and rec ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / .
thi sug the fol alg .
sta fro an ini par vec ( cid : 123 ) . 123 / , we ite the fol two ste , kno as the e ( exp ) ste and the m ( max - tio ) ste .
fir , we max the bou l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / wit res to pro dis q .
sec , we x q and max the bou l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / wit res to the par ( cid : 123 ) .
mor for , we hav :
( e ste ) : q . kc1 / d arg max ( m ste ) : ( cid : 123 ) . kc1 / d arg max
q; ( cid : 123 ) . k /
whi is coo asc in l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / .
thi can be rel to the tra pre of the em alg ( dem , lai , & rub , 123 ) by not tha for xed q , the rig - han sid of eq .
( 123 ) is a fun of ( cid : 123 ) onl thr the ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / ter .
thu max l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / wit res to ( cid : 123 ) in the m ste is equ to max the fol fun :
h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) . k /
ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / :
max of thi fun , kno as the com log lik in the em lit , den the m ste in the tra pre of em .
let us now ret to the sit in whi we are una to com the ful con dis p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / .
in suc cas var met sug tha we con a fam of app dis .
alt we are no lon abl to per a tru em ite giv tha we can ava our of p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / , we can sti per coo asc in the low bou l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / .
ind , the var str of min - zin the kl div wit res to the var par tha den the app - ima fam is exa a res for of coo asc in the rst arg of l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / .
we the fol thi ste by an m ste tha inc the low bou wit res to the par ( cid : 123 ) .
thi poi of vie , whi can be vie as a com tra app to the em alg , has bee exp in a num of rec arc , inc the sig bel net , fac hid mar mod and hid mar dec tre arc tha we dis in the fol sec , as wel as the hel mac of day et al .
( 123 ) and hin et al .
( 123 ) .
we now ret to the pro of pic a tra var par for a giv gra mod .
we wis to pic a sim gra whi is bot ric eno to pro
jor et al .
dis tha are clo to the tru dis , and sim eno so tha an exa alg - rit can be uti efc for cal und the app dis .
sim con hol for the var par : the var par mus be rep ric so tha goo app are ava and yet sim eno so tha a pro tha min the kl div has som hop of ndi goo par and not get stu in a loc min .
it is not nec pos to rea all of the des sim how , in a num of cas it has bee fou tha rel sim var app can yie rea acc sol .
in thi sec we dis sev suc exa .
mea eld bol mac .
in sec 123 we dis a seq var alg tha yie upp and low bou for the bol mac .
we now rev the bol mac wit the con of the blo app and dis low bou .
we als rel the two app .
rec tha the joi pro for the bol mac can be wri as fol :
p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
whe ( cid : 123 ) i j d 123 for nod si and s j tha are not nei in the gra .
con now the rep of the con dis p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / in a bol mac .
for nod si 123 e and s j 123 e , the con ( cid : 123 ) i j si s j red to a con , whi van whe we nor .
if si 123 h and s j 123 e , the qua con bec a lin con tha we ass wit nod si .
fin , lin ter ass wit nod si 123 e als bec con and van .
in sum , we can exp the con dis p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / as fol :
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
whe the sum are res to ran ove nod in h and the upd par ( cid : 123 ) c inc con ass wit the evi nod :
p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / d exp
d ( cid : 123 ) i12 c
( cid : 123 ) i j s j :
the upd par fun zc is giv as fol :
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j c
in sum , we hav a bol mac on the sub h .
the mea eld app ( pet & and , 123 ) for bol mac is a par for of var app in whi a com fac dis
int to var met
( a ) a nod si in a bol mac wit its mar bla .
( b ) the app mea eld dis q is bas on a gra wit no edg .
the mea eld equ yie a det rel , rep in the gur wit the dot lin , bet the var par i and j for nod j in the mar bla of nod i .
is use to app p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / .
tha is , we con the sim pos app - mat dis one tha is obt by dro all of the edg in the bol gra ( see gur 123 ) .
for thi cho of q . h j e ; / , ( whe we now use to rep the var par ) , we hav lit cho as to the var par rep as lar an app fam as pos we end eac deg of fre si wit its own var par i .
thu q can be wri as fol :
q . h j e ; / d
. 123 i / 123 ;
whe the pro is tak ove the hid nod h .
for the kl div bet the ful fac q dis and the p dis -
but in eq .
( 123 ) , we obt :
d . q k p / d
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / ) ( cid : 123 ) i j i j i c ln zc;
whe the sum ran acr nod in h .
in der thi res we hav use the fac tha , und the q dis , si and s j are ind ran var wit mea val i and j .
we now tak der of the kl div wit res to i not tha zc is
ind of i and set the der to zer to obt the fol equ :
i d ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) i j j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
whe ( cid : 123 ) . z / d 123 . 123 c e z / is the log fun and we den ( cid : 123 ) i j equ to ( cid : 123 ) ji for j < i .
equ ( 123 ) den a set of cou equ kno as the mea eld equ .
jor et al .
the equ are sol ite for a xed poi sol .
not tha eac var par i upd its val bas on a sum acr the var par in its mar bla ( cf .
gur 123 ( b ) ) .
thi can be vie as a var for of a loc mes pas alg .
pet and and ( 123 ) com the mea eld app to gib sam on a set of tes cas and fou tha it ran 123 tim fas , whi yie a rou equ lev of acc .
the are cas , how , in whi the mea eld app is kno to bre dow .
the cas inc spa bol mac and bol mac wit fru int the are net who pot fun emb con bet nei nod tha can be sim sat ( see als gal , 123 ) .
in the cas of spa net , exa alg can pro hel ind , thi obs led to the use of exa alg as sub wit the str mea eld app pur by sau and jor ( 123 ) .
let us now con the par est pro for bol mac .
wri
out the low bou in eq .
( 123 ) for thi cas , we hav : i ln z
ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) /
( cid : 123 ) i j i j c
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / )
tak the der wit res to ( cid : 123 ) i j yie a gra whi has a sim heb ter i j as wel as a con fro the der of ln z wit res to ( cid : 123 ) i j .
it is not har to sho tha thi der is hsi s ji; whe the bra sig an ave wit res to the unc dis p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / .
thu we hav the fol gra alg for per an app m ste :
123 ( cid : 123 ) i j / . i j hsi s ji / :
unf , how , giv our ass tha cal und the bol dis - tri are int for the gra und con , it is int to com the unc ave .
we can onc aga app to mea eld the and com an app to hsi s ji , whe we now use a fac dis on all of the nod how , the m ste is now a dif of gra of two dif bou and is the no lon gua to inc l .
the is a mor ser pro , mor , whi is par sal in uns lea pro .
if the dat set of int is a het - ero col of sub - pop , suc as in uns cla pro , the unc dis wil gen be req to hav mul mod .
unf - nat the fac mea eld app is uni and is a poo app for a mul - mod dis .
one app to thi pro is to uti mul - mod q dis wit the mea - eld fra for exa , jaa and jor ( 123 ) dis the use of mix mod as app dis .
the iss nd a mor sat tre in the con of dir gra , as we see in the fol sec .
in par , the gra for a dir gra ( cf .
( 123 ) ) doe not req ave und the unc dis .
int to var met
fin , let us con the rel bet the mea eld app and the low bou tha we obt via a seq alg in sec 123 .
in fac , if we run the lat alg unt all nod are eli fro the gra , we obt a bou tha is ide to the mea eld bou ( jaa , 123 ) .
to see thi , not tha for a bol mac in whi all of the nod hav bee eli the are no qua and lin ter onl the con ter rem .
rec fro sec 123 tha the con tha ari whe nod i is rem is l bee upd to abs the lin ter fro pre eli nod j < i .
( rec tha the lat upd is giv by q ( cid : 123 ) i12 d ( cid : 123 ) i12 c l ( cid : 123 ) i j for the rem of a par nod j tha is a nei of i ) .
col tog suc upd for j < i , and sum acr all nod i , we nd tha the res con ter is giv as fol :
/ , whe o ( cid : 123 ) i12 ref to the val of ( cid : 123 ) i12 aft it has
o ( cid : 123 ) i12 c h . l
fo ( cid : 123 ) i12 c h . i / g d
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / )
thi dif fro the low bou in eq .
( 123 ) onl by the ter ln z , whi dis whe we max wit res to i .
( cid : 123 ) i j i j c
neu net .
as dis in sec 123 , the sig bel net is ess - tia a ( dir ) neu net wit gra mod sem .
we uti the log fun as the nod pro fun :
si d 123 j s . i /
123 c exp
j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j ( cid : 123 ) i12
whe we ass tha ( cid : 123 ) i j d 123 unl j is a par of i .
( in par , ( cid : 123 ) i j 123 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ji d 123 ) .
not tha the pro for bot the si d 123 cas and the si d 123 cas can be wri in a sin exp as fol :
j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12 123 c exp j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12 123 c exp
j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
si j s . i /
p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / d
we obt the fol rep for the joi dis :
we wis to cal con pro und thi joi dis .
as we hav see ( cf .
gur 123 ) , inf for gen sig bel net is int , and thu it is sen to con var app .
sau , jaa , and jor
jor et al .
( 123 ) and sau and jor ( 123 ) hav exp the via of the sim com fac dis .
thu onc aga we set :
q . h j e ; / d
. 123 i / 123 ;
and att to nd the bes suc app by var the par i .
the com of the kl div d . q k p / pro muc as it doe in the cas of the mea eld bol mac .
the ent ter ( q ln q ) is the sam as bef .
the ene ter ( q ln p ) is fou by tak the log of eq .
( 123 ) and ave wit res to q .
put the res tog , we obt :
ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) /
123 c exp
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
( cid : 123 ) i j i j c
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / )
whe hi den an ave wit res to the q dis , and whe we hav abu not by den i val for i 123 e; the are set to the ins val i 123 f12 123 .
not tha , des the fac tha q is fac , we are una to cal the ave j12 / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) i12
thi is an imp ter whi of ln ( 123 c ezi ) , whe zi den ari dir fro the dir nat of the sig bel net ( it ari fro the den of the sig , a fac whi is nec to den the sig as a loc con pro ) .
to dea wit thi ter , sau et al .
( 123 ) int an add var tra , due to seu ( 123 ) , tha can be vie as a ren for of jen ine .
in par : hln ( 123 c ezi ) i d hln ( ei zi e
d ihz c
i zi . 123 c ezi / i
ihz c ln
i zi c e . 123 / zi i zi c e . 123 / zi
whe i is a var par .
( not tha the ine red to the sta jen ine for i d 123 ) .
the nal res can be uti dir in eq .
( 123 ) to pro a tra low bou on the log lik and the var par i can be opt alo wit the oth var par .
sau and jor ( 123 ) sho tha in the lim cas of net in whi eac hid nod has a lar num of par , so tha a cen lim the can be inv , the par i has a pro int as the app exp of ( cid : 123 ) . zi / , whe ( cid : 123 ) . / is aga the log fun .
int to var met
( a ) a nod si in a sig bel net mac wit its mar bla .
( b ) the mea eld equ yie a det rel , rep in the gur wit the dot lin , bet the var par i and j for nod j in the mar bla of nod i .
for xed val of the par i , by dif the kl div wit res
to the var par i , we obt the fol con equ :
i d ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) i j j c ( cid : 123 ) i12 c
( cid : 123 ) ji .
j j / c
j z j c e . 123 j / z ji wit res to i .
as sau et al .
whe k ji is the der of lnh sho , thi ter dep on nod i , its chi j , and the oth par ( the co - par ) of nod j .
giv tha the rst ter is a sum ove con fro the par of nod i , and the sec ter is a sum ove con fro the chi of nod i , we see tha the con equ for a giv nod aga inv con fro the mar bla of the nod ( see gur 123 ) .
thu , as in the cas of the bol mac , we nd tha the var par are lin via the mar bla and the con equ ( eq .
( 123 ) ) can be int as a loc mes - pas alg .
sau , jaa , and jor ( 123 ) and sau and jor ( 123 ) als sho how to upd the var par i .
the two pap uti the par in sli dif way and obt dif upd equ .
( yet ano rel var app for the sig bel net , inc bot upp and low bou , is pre in jaa and jor , 123 ) .
fin , we can com the gra wit res to the par ( cid : 123 ) i j for xed var par and .
the res obt by sau and jor ( 123 ) tak the fol for :
123 ( cid : 123 ) i j / . i i / j ( cid : 123 ) i j i . 123 i / i . 123 i / :
not tha the is no nee to cal var par und the unc dis - but , p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / , as in the cas of the bol mac ( a fac rst not by nea , 123 ) .
jor et al .
fig 123
the lef gur sho exa of the ima use by sau and jor ( 123 ) in tra the han dig cla .
the rig gur sho exa of ima who bot hal wer inf fro the top hal via a var inf alg .
not als the int app of a reg ter sec ter in the equ is a wei dec ter tha is max for non - ext val of the var - tio par ( bot of the par are bou bet zer and one ) .
thu , thi com - mot app to max lik est is in fac a for of pen max lik est .
sau and jor ( 123 ) tes the sig bel net on a han dig cla - sic pro , obt res tha wer com wit oth sup lea sys .
exa of the dig tha sau and jor use are sho in gur 123
fig 123 als ill the abi of a sig bel net to ll in mis dat .
all of the pix in the bot hal of the ima wer tre as mis and the val wer inf via var inf equ .
as a res of thi cap for lli in mis dat , the deg in cla per wit mis pix is sli ind , sau and jor rep tha the cla err wen fro 123 per to 123 per whe hal of the pix wer mis .
for fur com emp wor on sig bel net and rel arc -
tur , inc com wit gib sam , see fre , hin , and day ( 123 ) .
fac hid mar mod .
the fac hid mar mod ( fhm ) is a mul cha str ( see gur 123 ( a ) ) .
usi the not dev ear ( see sec 123 ) , the joi pro dis for the fhm is giv by :
;fy j ( cid : 123 )
com und thi pro dis is gen inf bec , as we saw ear , the cli siz bec unm lar whe the fhm cha str is mor and tri .
thu it is nec to con app .
int to var met
( a ) the fhm .
( b ) a var app for the fhm can be obt by pic out a tra sub in the fhm gra .
par thi gra lea to a fam of tra app
for the fhm the is a nat sub on whi to bas a var alg .
in par , the cha tha com the fhm are ind tra .
the , rat tha rem all of the edg , as in the nai mea eld app dis in the pre two sec , it wou see mor rea to rem onl as man edg as are nec to dec the cha .
in par , we rem the edg tha lin the sta nod to the out nod ( see gur 123 ( b ) ) .
wit the edg the mor pro no lon lin the sta nod and no lon cre lar cli .
in fac , the mor pro on the del gra in gur 123 ( b ) is vac , as is the tri .
thu the cli on the del gra are of siz n 123 , whe n is the num of sta for a sin cha .
one ite of app inf run in tim o . mt n 123 / , whe m is the num of cha and t is the len of the tim ser .
let us now con how to exp a var app usi the del gra of gur 123 ( b ) as an app .
the ide is to int one fre par int the app pro dis , q , for eac edg tha we hav dro .
the fre par , whi we den as . m / , ess ser as sur for the eff of the obs at tim t on sta com m .
whe we opt the div d . q k p / wit res to the par the bec int thi ( det ) int can be vie as an app to the pro dep tha is cap in an exa alg via the mor pro .
ref to gur 123 ( b ) , we wri the app q dis in the fol
whe is the vec of var par . m / to be the pro of the exa tra mat a . m / and the var par . m /
we den the tra mat qa . m /
and sim for the ini sta pro q . m / :
jor et al .
thi fam of dis res the con ind sta of the ap - pro gra in gur 123 , and pro add deg of fre via the var
gha and jor ( 123 ) pre the equ tha res fro min the kl div bet the app pro dis ( eq .
( 123 ) ) and the tru pro dis ( eq .
the res can be sum as fol .
as in the oth arc tha we hav dis , the equ for a var par ( . m / ) is a fun of ter tha are in the mar bla of the cor del nod ( i . e . , , for n 123 m , thu lin yt ) .
in par , the upd for . m / dep on the par . n / the var par at tim t .
mor , the upd for . m / dep on the exp val of the sta x . m / , whe the exp is tak und the dis q .
giv tha the cha are dec und q , exp are fou by run one of the exa alg ( for exa , the for - bac alg for hmm ) , sep for eac cha .
the exp of cou dep on the cur val of the par . m / ( cf .
( 123 ) ) , and it is thi dep tha eff cou the cha .
to sum , tti the var par for a fhm is an ite , two - pha pro .
in the rst pha , an exa alg is run as a sub to cal exp - tat for the hid sta .
thi is don ind for eac of the m cha , mak ref to the cur val of the par . m / .
in the sec pha , the par are upd bas on the exp com in the rst pha .
the pro the ret to the rst pha and ite .
gha and jor ( 123 ) rep res on tti an fhm to the bac cho dat set ( mer & mur , 123 ) .
the sho tha sig lar eff sta spa cou be t wit the fhm tha wit an uns hmm , and tha per in ter of pro of the tes set was an ord of mag lar for the fhm .
mor , evi of ove was see for the hmm for 123 sta or mor no evi of ove for the fhm was see for up to 123 sta .
hid mar dec tre .
as a nal exa we ret to the hid mar dec tre ( hmd ) des in the int and bri dis var app - mat for thi arc .
as we hav dis , a hmd is ess a mar tim ser mod , whe the pro mod at eac tim ste is a ( pro ) dec tre wit hid dec nod .
the mar dep is obt via sep tra mat at the dif lev of the dec tre , giv the mod a fac str .
the var app to tti a hmd is clo rel to tha of tti a fhm how , the are add cho as to the var app .
in par , we hav two sub wor con in the hmd : ( 123 ) dro the ver edg , we rec a dec set of cha .
as in the fhm , the cha can eac be han by the for - bac alg .
( 123 ) dro the hor edg , we rec a dec set of dec tre .
we can cal pro in the tre usi the pos pro alg des in jor ( 123 ) .
the rst app , whi we ref to as the for of cha app , is sho in gur 123
as in the fhm , we wri a var app for the for of cha app by res the con ind in the app gra
int to var met
fig 123
the for of cha app for the hmd .
par thi gra lea to an app - mat fam of q dis .
fig 123
the for of tre app for the hmd .
par thi gra lea to an app - mat fam of q dis .
and inc var par to obt ext deg of fre ( see jor et al . , 123 , for the det ) .
we can als con a for of tre app in whi the hor lin are eli ( see gur 123 ) .
giv tha the dec tre is a ful con gra , thi is ess a nai mea eld app on a hyp .
fin , it is als pos to dev a var alg for the hmd tha is ana - gou to the vit alg for hmm .
in par , we uti an app q tha ass pro one to a sin pat in the sta spa .
the kl div for thi q dis is par eas to eva , giv tha the ent con to the kl div ( i . e . , the q ln q ter ) is zer .
mor , the eva of the ene ( i . e . , the q ln p ter ) red to sub the sta alo the cho pat int the p dis .
the res alg inv a sub in whi a sta vit alg is run on a sin cha , wit the oth cha hel xed .
thi sub is run on eac cha
jor et al .
( 123 ) fou tha per of the hmd on the bac cho was ess the sam as tha of the fhm .
the adv of the hmd was its gre int mos of the run res in a coa - to - ne ord of the tem sca of the mar pro fro the top to the bot of the tre .
jor et al .
we hav des a var of app of var met to pro of inf and lea in gra mod .
we hop to hav con the rea tha var met can pro a pow and ele too for gra mod , and tha the alg - rit tha res are sim and int app .
it is imp to emp , how , tha res on var met for gra mod is of qui rec ori , and the are man ope pro and unr iss .
in thi sec we dis a num of the iss .
we als bro the sco of the pre and dis a num of rel str of res .
rel res
the met tha we hav dis all inv det , ite app al - gor .
it is of int to dis rel app sch tha are eit non - det or non - ite .
rec mod and the hel mac .
all of the alg tha we hav pre hav at the cor a non opt pro .
in par , aft hav int the var par , whe seq or as a blo , we are lef wit a bou suc as tha in eq .
( 123 ) tha mus be opt .
opt of thi bou is gen ach via a xed - poi ite or a gra - bas alg .
thi ite opt pro ind int bet the var par whi giv us a bes app to the mar or con pro of int .
con in par a pro in whi a dir gra mod is use for uns - per lea .
a com app in uns lea is to con gra mod tha are ori in the gen dir tha is , the poi fro hid var - abl to obs .
in thi cas the pre cal of p . e j h / is ele .
the cal of p . h j e / , on the oth han , is a dia cal tha pro bac in the gra .
dia cal are gen non - tri and req the ful pow of an inf alg .
an alt app to sol ite for an app to the dia cal is to lea bot a gen mod and a rec mod tha app the dia dis p . h j e / .
thu we ass dif par wit the gen - rat mod and the rec mod and rel on the par est pro to bri the par int reg .
thi is the bas ide beh the hel mac ( day et al . , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) .
the key adv of the rec - mod app is tha the cal of p . h j e /
is red to an ele fee cal tha can be per qui .
the are som dis to the app as wel .
in par , the lac of an ite alg mak the hel mac una to dea nat wit mis dat , and wit phe suc as exp - awa , in whi the cou bet hid var cha as a fun of the con var .
mor , alt in som cas the is a cle nat par for the rec mod tha is
int to var met
ind fro the gen mod ( in par for lin mod suc as fac ana ) , in gen it is dif to ins tha the mod are mat app . 123 som of the pro mig be add by com the rec - mod app wit the ite var app ess tre the rec - mod as a cac for sto goo ini for the var par .
sam met .
in thi sec we mak a few rem on the rel bet var met and sto met , in par the gib sam .
in the set of gra mod , bot cla of met rel on ext mes - pas .
in gib sam , the mes - pas is par sim : eac nod lea the cur - ren ins of its mar bla .
wit eno sam the nod can est the dis ove its mar bla and ( rou spe ) det its own sta .
the adv of thi sch is tha in the lim of ver man sam , it is gua to con to the cor sta .
the dis is tha ver man sam may be
the mes - pas in var met is qui dif .
its pur is to cou the var par of one nod to tho of its mar bla .
the mes do not com in the for of sam , but rat in the for of app sta ( as sum by the var par ) .
for exa , in a net of bin nod , whi the gib sam is cir mes of bin vec tha cor to the ins of mar bla , the var met are cir rea - val num tha cor to the sta of mar bla .
thi may be one rea why var met oft con fas tha gib sam .
of cou , the dis of the sch is tha the do not nec con to the cor sta .
on the oth han , the can pro bou on mar pro tha are qui dif to est by sam .
ind , sam - bas met wel - sui to est the sta of ind hid h p . h; e / .
an int dir for fut res is to con com of sam met and var met .
som ini wor in thi dir has bee don by hin , sal , and gha ( 123 ) , who dis bri gib sam fro the poi of vie of var app .
nod ill - equ to com mar pro suc as p . e / dp
bay met .
var inf can be app to the gen pro of bay par est .
ind we can qui gen tre par as add nod in a gra mod ( cf .
hec , 123 ) and the tre bay inf on the sam foo as gen pro inf in a gra mod .
thi pro inf pro is oft int , and var app can be use .
a var met kno as ens lea was ori int as a way of tti an ens of neu net to dat , whe eac set of the par can be tho of as a dif mem of the ens ( hin & van cam , 123 ) .
let q . ( cid : 123 ) j e / rep a var app to the pos dis p . ( cid : 123 ) j e / .
the ens is t by min the app kl div :
k l . q k p / d
q . ( cid : 123 ) j e / ln
q . ( cid : 123 ) j e / p . ( cid : 123 ) j e /
jor et al .
fol the sam lin of arg as in sec 123 , we kno tha thi min mus be equ to the max of a low bou .
in par , cop the arg fro sec 123 , we nd tha min the kl div yie the bes low bou on the fol qua :
ln p . e / d ln
p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / p . ( cid : 123 ) / d ( cid : 123 ) ;
whi is the log of the mar lik a key qua in bay mod sel and mod ave .
mor rec , the ens lea app has bee app to mix of exp ar - chi ( wat , mac , & rob , 123 ) and hid mar mod ( mac , 123 ) .
one int asp of the app is tha the do not ass any par par fam for q , rat the mak the non ass tha q fac in a spe way .
the var min its det the bes fam giv thi fac and the pri on ( cid : 123 ) .
jaa and jor ( 123 ) hav als dev var met for bay in - fer , usi a var app to nd an ana tra app for log reg wit a gau pri on the par .
per and pro .
per the key iss tha fac dev of var - ati met is the iss of app acc .
one can dev an int for whe var met per wel and whe the per poo by exa the pro in cer wel - stu cas .
in the cas of ful fac app for und gra , a goo sta poi is the sta mec lit whe thi app can giv not onl goo , but ind exa , res .
suc cas inc den con gra wit uni wea ( but non - neg ) cou bet nei nod ( par , 123 ) .
the mea eld equ for the net hav a uni sol tha det the sta of ind nod in the lim of ver lar gra .
kea and sau ( 123 ) hav uti lar dev met to stu the app acc of bou on the lik for den dir gra .
cha the acc in ter of the num n of par for eac nod ( ass con ) in a lay gra , the hav sho tha the gap bet var upp and low bou con at a rat of ln . n / =n / .
the app uti a rat gen for of upp and low bou for the loc con pro tha doe not dep on con pro .
thu the res sho be exp to be rat rob acr the gen fam of var met mor , fas rat may be obt for the con - bas var app dis in the cur pap .
in mor gen gra mod the con for con of ful fac var app may not be so fav .
in gen som nod may hav a sma mar bla or may be str dep on par nei , and var tra of suc nod wou yie poo bou .
mor glo , if the are str pro dep in the mod the pos can hav mul mod ( ind , in the lim cas of det rel one can rea cre swi aut tha hav mul mod ) .
ful fac app , whi are nec uni ,
int to var met
wil fai in suc cas .
han suc cas req mak use of met tha tra onl a sub of the nod , inc exa inf pro as sub to han the unt str .
the exa met can cap the str dep , lea the wea dep for the var tra .
in pra , ach thi kin of div of lab eit req tha the str dep can be ide in adv by ins of the gra , or can be ide in the con of a seq var met via sim gre cal .
an alt app to han mul mod is to uti mix mod as app dis ( the q dis in blo var met ) .
see jaa and jor ( 123 ) and bis et al .
( 123 ) for dis of thi app .
fin , it is als imp to str the dif bet joi dis p . h; e / , and con dis p . h j e / .
in man sit , suc as cla pro in whi h rep a cat lab , the joi dis p . h; e / is mul - mod , but the con dis p . h j e / is not .
thu fac app may mak sen for inf pro eve whe the wou be poo ove app to the joi pro mod .
ano key iss has to do wit bro the sco of var met .
in thi pap we hav pre a res set of var tec , tho bas on con tra .
for the tec to be app the app con pro nee to be ide .
whi it is rel eas to cha sma cla of mod whe the pro lea to sim app alg , suc as the cas in whi the loc con pro are log - con gen lin mod , it is not gen eas to dev var alg for oth kin of gra mod .
a bro cha of var app is nee and a mor sys alg is nee to mat the app to mod .
oth ope pro inc : ( 123 ) the pro of com var met wit sam met and wit sea bas met , ( 123 ) the pro of mak mor in - for cho of nod ord in the cas of seq met , ( 123 ) the dev of upp bou wit the blo fra , ( 123 ) the com of mul var app for the sam mod , and ( 123 ) the dev of var met for arc tha com con and dis ran var .
sim ope pro exi for sam met and for met bas on inc or pru ver of exa met .
the dif in pro sol the fou in all of the cas lie in the fac tha acc is con to a lar deg on the act con pro val of the und pro mod rat tha on the dis pro of the gra .
in thi sec , we cal the con fun for the log fun and the log
for f . x / d ln x , we hav :
. / d min
fx ln xg :
jor et al .
tak the der wit res to x and set to zer yie x d 123
sub bac in eq .
( a . 123 ) yie :
. / d ln c 123
whi jus the rep of the log giv in eq
for the log log fun g . x / d ln . 123 c e
x / , we hav :
. / d min
fx c ln . 123 c e
tak the der wit res to x and set to zer yie :
123 c ex
fro whi we obt :
x d ln
ln . 123 c e
x / d ln
plu the exp bac int eq .
( a . 123 ) yie :
. / d ln . 123 / ln . 123 / ;
whi is the bin ent fun h . / .
thi jus the rep of the log fun giv in eq
we wis to tha bre fre , dav hec , uff kjr , and ( as alw ) pet day for hel com on the man .
our pre wil tak the poi of vie tha mor and tri , whe com wit a loc mes - pas alg , are suf for exa inf .
it is als pos to sho tha , und cer con , the ste are nec for exa inf .
see jen and jen ( 123 ) .
her and els we ide the ith nod wit the ran var si ass wit the nod .
we den a cli to be a sub of nod whi are ful con and max i . e . , no add nod
can be add to the sub so tha the sub rem ful con .
not in par tha gur 123 is the mor of gur 123
int to var met
the acr qmr - dt ref to the dec the ver of the qui med ref .
in par , the pat of mis edg in the gra imp tha ( a ) the dis are mar ind ,
and ( b ) giv the dis , the sym are con ind .
jaa and jor ( 123 ) als cal the med of the pai cut siz .
thi val was fou to
be 123 , whi als rul out exa cut met for inf for the qmr - dt .
it is als pos to con mor gen bol mac wit mul nod , and pot tha are exp of arb fun on the cli .
suc mod are ess equ to the gen und gra mod of eq .
( 123 ) ( alt the lat can rep zer pro whi the for
not tha we tre p . h; e / in gen as a mar pro tha is , we do not nec ass tha h
and e joi exh the set of nod s .
the par rec mod uti in the hel mac is a lay gra , whi mak wea con ind ass and thu mak it pos , in pri , to cap fai gen
