al ls of he nt ve an nt le to ay in ap - ve ms in al nd re of ar ce or he ed ng gm .
in is er we te at in al ob - ms ed th he on of he er " in ed ng an be ed by us se of ed al ls as ts of he ap - ve em .
in ar , we ow ow ed ng ms an be ed in es in ch an wn al em es en ns nd ed es .
ur ch es to ny ed ng hm at is le of ng in ti - er ks .
is er is a ed on of it er or ve ce al er .
we sh to nk el er , ew to , rt bs , ic eb , nd es nd or ul ts on he pt .
is ct as ed in rt by sg s rr - ed by he al re - ch rt nt am , on of ch es , al es of th , by a nt om tr ry nd al on ch ra - es , by a nt om ns on , by a nt om he an er ce am , nd by nt n - - j - ed by he ce of al
nt rk on ng ms or st ks as en a ro - ve ng of he ns de ut he ip en he er nd he nt .
al ed ng ms ch as he on tt , nd he ms hm ow & ho , de wo ng ns : he ut ts re he ly ve ts in he rk , nd re is a er " at es ed es or ll of he ut ts .
ly in he nt of ch ms it as ed at re ul ed ng ms ld be ed by ng he st on nd ng al ts at ly de he ut on ed by he nt tt , .
he nt nt of ms ch as nn ng on & ki , nd on un , ; er , ; rt , on , & ms , ; os , ve ed he ns or ng ks th ve ar al ts .
he nd on as so en ng ms at re no it er ve en ed er & on , ; rg , ; en , ; er , ; rt & er , .
ch ed " ng ms ly rm me rt of ng or re on on he ut ta nd re ed on ns ut he al or al es of he ut le .
in is er we ne in me il he on of he er " in he ed ng gm .
we ue at he er is ss of a ty an as ly en ed nd at he on at he nt es ed es or he ut of he rk an be ed ly ut ng he ed ng gm er .
ed , we el at an te on of he le of he er is al in ng he ge of ms to ch he gm an be ed .
he ue at we sh to ss is st ed by ay of an le .
er a ll - ng sk ch as at ed by a ll er ng to ot ts .
he em or he er is to nd he te le ds to el he ll rd he al .
nt ds re te or nt ns of he al in he al e; us , a ng om al es to le ds is ed .
at ng hm ht ly he on of ch a ng ? ly , ng or re on on he al ut is ot nt .
er , it is lt to ee ow to ly al ed ms to is em , se re is no er to de le ds as ts to he er .
he ly et on ed to he er is in ms of he me of he t; at is , he ts nd ds of a ll ng gh he al .
he al io ed by he le is wn in re .
ns re ed as ts to he ng em .
he er ms ns to ns , ch re ed by he nt to es .
ns re al s; at is , es at he er ls ly , le
re : he al ed ng em .
et es re le or he al es he es " ut ot or he al es he ns " .
es re al es , es at he er ls ly gh he ry of he al es .
ng he ng ss , et es re ed to be le or he al es ut ot or he al es .
re , om a nt of ew de he ng em , a al ed ng sk " is a ng om ns to ed es .
om he nt of ew of he er , er , he em is to nd a ng om ns to ns at an be ed th he nt to ld ed al es .
he er st er ow to ry he ts of he al on or so as to ze he ts of he al or .
he al ed ng em so as a al nt .
in ny ts he ts of ns re ot te nd us , ut er er on nd ix th he ts of er ns .
us he me at ny nt in me is ed by ny of a er of us ns .
en if re ts a et of es at ve a ic ip to ed es , he er en es ot ve ct ol er se es .
er in he le of he ll er .
gh he ht of he ll ds ly on he ty of he rm at he nt of ea ic it is ly at he or ol em is le to ol se ty ly .
er , he em ts es or es , nd se es do ot ve a ic ip to he al me .
in he er of he er we be a al ch to ng he is - al ed ng em .
he ch is ed on he ea at ed ng in ts st al rm is a wo - se re .
in he st se he er ms a ve al el a rd el of he on om ns to al es .
se ch ns re en ot wn a ri , he al el st ly be ed by ng he es ed th ar es of ns .
is ry ng em is it - lf a ed ng em , ed on he or en al , ed es nd al es .
ce he al el as en at st ar - ly ed , it an be ed in an ct er to ve or he ng om
ns to ns .
he ea of ng an al el to nt he es of ed ng ms as so en ed by os , gh is ec - ve rs in in ts om ur wn .
re ve en a er of er ts of he ea to , ; ta , ; ro , ; en & ow , ; on & de , ; er , , ed er on he rk of os or ur wn ed rk an , ; rt , .
re re so se es en ur ch nd es in al ol ry rk , nd ve ol ry in & in , ; ra & hy , .
we ss al of se ps in he er of he er , gh we do ot pt to be ve .
al ed ng nd rd ls
is on nd he ng on nt a al ch to ng al ed ng ms .
we in by ng ur ns ut he nt nd he er .
we me at he nt an be ed by a xt - te on f nd an ut on g .
at me ep n ( id : 23 ) he er es an on un ( id : 23 ) .
in on th he te of he nt xn ( id : 23 ) he on es he xt te xn :
xn = f xn ( id : 23 ) ; un ( id : 23 ) :
ng to ch te xn re is so a on yn :
yn = xn :
te at ns re ut rs in he nt es " in he ge of he ry on .
he xt - te on nd he ut on er ne a te - nt ng om ns to ns .
in he nt er we me at he er as ss to he te of he t; we do ot ss es ng to te on nd te on .
te ns ht ve ed es of us ns nd ns ng & om , , or ey ht ve al te es at re ed as rt of he ng re er & ch , .
en he te xn ( id : 23 ) nd en he ut pn ( id : 23 ) , he er es an on un ( id : 23 ) :
un ( id : 23 ) = xn ( id : 23 ) ; pn ( id : 23 ) :
he ce of me es in ns , , nd is ed on ur us on he ut at me n .
in ur rk a ng hm rs yn ed on us es of he es , ts ,
re : he te ce em ng of he er nd he nt .
is em is a ng om ts pn ( id : 23 ) to ns yn .
he ng ta in ( id : 23 ) ; y i ng fy ed ut or ss he te em .
te at re is an it op in he nt ch at he ut at me n ds on he te at me n ( id : 23 ) cf .
on .
a al ed ng em is a et of ng rs in ( id : 23 ) ; y
he al of he ng re is to ke te ts to he ut - to - on ng h ed on ta ed om ng th he nt .
re in ( id : 23 ) re he ut rs nd y i n re he ng ed en - ns .
or le , in he ll em , he ut ht be a gh - el on of ng a et , nd a ed on ld be he nd - ng al on of a ul me .
te at he al ed ng em es no on of he ns at he er st e; ly ts nd ed ns re ed .
om a nt of ew de he ng em he ng ta fy ed ut or ss he te ce em ng of he er nd he nt ee re .
om he nt of ew of he er , er , he em is to nd a ng om ts pn ( id : 23 ) to ns un ( id : 23 ) ch at he ng al ns yn re he et es yn .
at is , he er st nd a ng om ts to ns at an be ed in es th he nt so as to ld he ed ng of ts nd ns .
te at re ay be re an ne on at ds a en ed on om ny en e; at is , he al ed ng em ay be ed .
us , in he as - ll le , re ay be a ty of ns of or ds at ld he me ed on of ng of he ll ss gh he al .
he er is ed to be le to ve es , ns , nd ns nd an re el he ng en ns nd ns .
a rd el is an al el at es a ed on yn ed on he te xn ( id : 23 ) nd he on un ( id : 23 ) .
at is , a rd el ts he es of a
re : ng he rd el ng he on or yn ( id : 23 ) yn .
en on in he xt of a en te or .
as wn in re , he rd el an be ed by ng ed ns to al ns nd ng he ng on or to st he rs of he el .
ng he rd el is a al ed ng em in ch he er es et es ly in he ut te em of he er .
al ed ng
we ow be a al ch to ng he al ed ng ob - em .
er he em wn in re , in ch he er is ed in es th a rd el of he nt .
is te ng em is a te - nt ng om ts to ed ns .
se at he rd el as en ed ly nd is a ct el of he t; at is , he ed on ls he al on or ll ns nd ll es .
in he ng re , is ng ss is ed to as em on "
ng & om , .
re : he te ng em .
is te em ps om ts pn ( id : 23 ) to ed ns yn in he xt of a en te or .
we ow at he te ng em as a le ed ng em nd in it to ap om ts to ed ns ng to he ta in he ng et .
at is , he ed ns y i re ed as ts or he os - te em .
ny ed ng hm an be ed or is ng s; er , he hm st be ed so at it es ot er he rd el le he te em is ng ed .
by ng he rd el , we re he em to nd an al te ng by ng ly he ng om ts to ns .
if he rd el is ct , nd if he ng hm ds he ly al on , en he ng te - nt ut - to - on ng st so be ct in he se at it ds he ed te ut or en ed in es th he nt .
er ow he se of an ct rd el .
ly an ct rd el ll ld an ct ut - to - on ap if he te em is ed in he us ay , ng he ce en he ed on nd he ed on as he or rm .
is ce , he ed ce or y ( id : 23 ) ^y , is ly le at he ut of he te em , ut it is an le de to he ue ce of he er .
se ad at we re he ut of he te em nd te he ce or y ( id : 23 ) y as he or rm or ng he te em ee re .
if he ce or es to ro he em as nd a ct ut - to - on ap , ss of he cy of he rd el .
he cy in he rd el ts lf as a as ng he ng ss , ut ed ot nt he ce or om ng to ro .
er , or le , ms ed on st nt .
if he rd el is ot oo te he em an ll ve ll nd by ch he on on , en gh he nt is ot in he on of st nt .
to ze , we se to ve he al ed ng em by ng a te ng em ng of he er nd a rd el of he nt .
is re es ly or an ut - to - on ap by
y * ( n ) _
re : he te em is ed ng he ce or .
he rd el is ld ed le he te em is ng ed .
ng he te em to ap om ts to al ts .
he ng of he rd el st de he ng of he te em , ut he rd el ed ot be ct , or ed it be re - ed ut ll of te ce .
he ty of he em to ze an te rd el is t; it es at it ay be le to ve he ng of he rd el nd he te em .
in he er of he er , we ss he es of ed ng , cy in he rd el , nd he ce of he or rm in re il .
we st rn to an ng al se of he al al ed ng at of ng an se el of he nt .
an se el is an al el at es an on un ( id : 23 ) as a on of he nt te xn ( id : 23 ) nd he ed on yn .
se ls re ed by he on at ey ld he ty ng en ed in es th he nt .
se ls re nt in a ty of ns .
or le , if he en - nt is ed as a ns el er ch a ge is to be ed , en it ay be le to do he ng ts of he vi - nt by ng it in es th an se el on , .
a nd le , wn in re , es in ol em gn .
a er es he ed on yn as ut nd st nd ns at se al ns to be as se as le to ed s; at is , he er st rt
re : an se el as a er .
he on om ns to ns .
ne ch to ng is ve is to ze an it se el of he nt as a er .
as rd ls re ly ed by he nt , se ls re ly ot .
if he nt is ed by a ny - to - ne ng om ns to ns en re re ly an te er of le se ls .
it is so th ng at es do ot ys t| it is ot ys le to ve a ar ed on om ny en te .
as we ll ss , se es of ce nd ss ve nt ns or he em of ng an se el .
re re wo al es to ng se ls ng ed ng ms : he al ng ch ed ve nd an ve ch at we er to as ct se ng " cf .
an & um , .
we in by ng he er ch .
ct se ng
ct se ng ts he em of ng an se el as a al ed ng em ow & ns , .
as wn in re , he ea is to ve he ut or of he nt nd to in an se el ly by ng he es of he ts nd ts .
ta re ed to he hm by ng in on ce nd ng he ts in
gh ct se ng as en wn to be a le ue in a er of ns on & er , ; in , ; er , , it as wo ks at it ts ss .
st , if he nt is ed by a ny - to - ne ng om ns to ns , en he di - ct se ng ue ay be le to nd an se .
he ty is at ar ny - to - ne gs an ld ex se es , ch re
ol em gn ly es a er of al ts ng ty nd s; us , he al is ly to rt he nt as ly as le ct to se al ts .
re : he ct se ng ch to ng an se el .
ic or ct se ng .
er he on wn in re .
he ex on on he ft is he se ge of a nt in on ce .
se at he ts ed by xs re ed ng he ng ss .
ee of se ts nd to he me n; us , he ng ta as en by he ct se ng re re ne - to - ne ut is ed th ny ts .
ed ng ms ve ne - to - ny en - es by ng ss he le ts he rm of he ng ds on he ar st on at is ed .
as is wn in he re , er , he ge of ts ng in a ex et es ot ly ie in he et .
us he ly al um - st on nd by he ct se ng ch is ot ly a ct se el .
we nt an le of ch or in a ng on .
he nd ck th ct se ng is at it is ot al - ed . " he hm es in on ce ut rd to ar ts or rs in on ce .
at is , re is no ct ay to nd an on at ds to a ar ed on .
to in ar so - ns he er st le er a ly de ge of ns nd ly on
ly , it is so nt to ze at ct se ng is re - ed to he ng of se it is ot le to he al al
a et is ex if or ry ir of ts in he et ll ts on he ne en he ts
so ie in he et .
re : he ty em .
he on on he ft is he se ge of he nt on he ht .
he ow ts he on in ch he ng is ed by ct se ng .
he ee ts ng de he se ge re ed by he ng re , ng he or ed by he ll le .
is nt is ot a on , se he se ge is ot ex .
ed ng em .
he al ng ch to ng an se el
he ds ed er in is on re ly le to he em of ng an se el .
he em of ng an se el an be ed as a al se of he al ed ng em in ch he ut or nd he ed on re he me at is , pn ( id : 23 ) is al to yn in on .
us , an se el is ed by ng he er nd he rd el in es nd ng an ty ng ss he te
a al ce en he al ng ch nd ct in - se ng ch is at er an ng er ns in on ce , he al ng ch ds ar ns in on ce .
he ly al on or al ng is a et of rs ig ch at he ce
an ng gy an be wn en he al ng ch nd ct ch - es or ng ms of ar ns .
in al ar ra , er an ng ly or a ed se of he nt ix , ns re ly nd ly e . g . , by ng an on to th es of he on ga = i , re i is he ty
i ( id : 23 ) ig re ro .
is is ue ve of he es of he se im - i .
rs ng de of an se ge , ch as he ge es of he ts y or wn in re , do ot ld ro ce or nd re re ot ly al .
us ex se es do ot nt he me da - al es or he al ng rk as ey do or ct se
it is so ue at he al ng ch is ly al - ed .
he em ks to ze he ce r; us , it ks ly to nd ns at nd to he ar ls at nd .
in es in ch he rd ng is ny - to - ne , he al ng ro - re ds a ar se el .
ut al on ut he ar re of he ut - to - on ng re is no ay of ng ch of he ly te et of se ls he re ll nd .
as is ed ow , er , he re an so be ed to nd ar se ls th in ed es .
al ng nd on
in is on we be an on of he al ng ch at es he ry of he on hm .
it is nt to ha - ze at he et , er , at on is ot he ly hm at an be ed to nt he al ng ch .
ny ed ng go - hm an be ed as ng as it is le of ng a ng ss a te rk at es a ly ed k; in ar , nn ng is le an , .
we in by ng a ul nd or ng on in ed ks .
a ed rk an be ed as a ed ng om an ut or x to an ut or y :
y = x; w;
re w is a or of rs ts .
in he al gm , he re or ng he ts is ed on he cy en a et or y nd he al ut or y .
he de of is cy is ed by a st al of he rm :
y ( id : 23 ) yt y ( id : 23 ) y :
j is he um of ed or at he ut ts of he rk .
it is ly ed to ze is st .
on is an hm or ng ts of he st al .
he ls of he hm an be nd re e . g . , rt , et al . , ; ur on re is to op a le on at es he ls .
is is
ed ly by ng he in le to te j th ct to he ht or w :
wj = ( id : 23 )
y ( id : 23 ) y :
is on ws at ny hm at es he nt of j ly es he or or y ( id : 23 ) y by he se an ix wt .
gh he on hm er ms is ix ly ck - on is ly a on of he x; an , , on ss es he ts of he on ed by on .
on so es he nt of he st al th ct to he ns of he ts in he rk .
in ar , he st al j an be ed th ct to he ns of he ut ts to ld :
xj = ( id : 23 )
y ( id : 23 ) y :
we er to on as on - to - ts " nd on as ck - on - to - on . " th ns re ed ut in ne ss of he m; ed , on - to - on is ed as an te ep in he on - to - ts on .
in he er of is on we te wo ad es of ng ms at ie in he pe of he al ng ch nd ve ex - ns or he ts at se .
or ty it is ed in th of se ns at he sk is to rn an se el at is , he ts nd he al ts re ed to be al .
he wo ns of he al rn - ng rk us on nt ts of he al ng em nd ve nt hs nd es .
he st ch , he al on " on , es on he al al re of he nt .
se it es at he er is le to ct te ns ed on on at is le ly in me , it ds on or ge of an te et of te es or ng he nt .
it is st ly ed to ms in ch et es re ed at ch nt in me , gh it an be ed to ms in ch et es re ed ly as we te in a ng on .
ll of he ns ed or he al
he an ix of a or on is ly ts st it is a ix of st al es .
at is , he es of he ix @w re he al es of he ch of he ut ns th ct to ch of he ts in he rk .
to in me ht to hy a se ix es in on , er a le - er ar rk ed by y = w x , re w is he ht ix .
he ws of w re he ng ht rs or he ut ts of he rk , nd he ns of w re he ng ht rs or he ut ts of he rk .
ng a or rd in he rk es ng he er ct of he or th ch of he ng ht rs .
is on ds to on by w .
ng a or rd in he rk ds to ng he er ct of he or th ch of he ng ht rs .
is on ds to on by w t , se he ws of w t re he ns of w .
on on an be ed in rd ks , us re is no em th ty .
he nd ch , he on - ng - es " on , es on al al es ng ar et ra - es .
he on ed to in se es is re ex an he on ed or he al on on , ut it is re le .
it an be ed to es in ch a et of te es is ot wn a ri nd it is ly ed to ms in ch et es re ed in - ly in me .
re is ly a em th ty , er , se he ns or ng he nt ve a al ss .
he st em on at we ss is a al on em .
we me at he ss at es et rs is ry nd er he ng al st al :
fy ( id : 23 ) yt y ( id : 23 ) g;
re y is an wn on of he te x nd he on u .
he on u is he ut of a ed se el of he rm :
u = x; y
re w is a ht or .
er an ng j ly , by ng cs er he le of es nd ns , we ze an ne ng le cf .
ow & ns , at es al es to he ts ed on he us ue of he st al :
yn ( id : 23 ) nt yn ( id : 23 ) yn :
an ne ng hm es he ts at ch me ep ed on he ic nt of j; at is , he nt of jn :
wn + = wn ( id : 23 ) n;
re is a ep ze .
to te is nt he in le is ed to ua -
jn = ( id : 23 )
yn ( id : 23 ) n;
re he an es @u nd @w re ed at me n ( id : 23 ) .
he st nd he rd rs in is on re ly ed : he st or es he on of es om he ut ts of he se el he on ts " to he ts of he se el , nd he rd or is he
al or .
he in of he nd or is ic , er , se he ce of y on u is ed to be wn a ri .
ur ch to ng an te of is or as wo ts : st , he em es a ed rd el er an te in of he te ce .
is el is of
^y = ^f x; u; v;
re v is a or of ts nd ^y is he ed on .
nd , he al or is ed rd gh he rd l; is ly es he al or by an te of he se an ix @u .
ng se es er , he hm or ng he se el is
ed on he ng ed ic nt :
jn = ( id : 23 )
yn ( id : 23 ) yn :
is on es he on of he al or yn ( id : 23 ) yn rd gh he rd el nd wn to he se el re he ts re ed .
he rk re in ch se ns ke ce is wn in re .
is rk is a rd on of he ck am in re .
it is ed of an se el , ch ks he te ts nd he ut ts to he on ts , nd a rd el , ch ks he te ts nd he on ts to he ed - on ts .
ng he rd el
he ng of he rd el an lf be ed as an on ob - em , ed on he ng st al :
fy ( id : 23 ) yt y ( id : 23 ) g;
re ^y is of he rm en in on .
gh he ce of re or ng a et of ts v to ze is st is ly nt of he ce of re or ng j in on , it is nt to se he ng of he rd el on a ic nt as re :
ln = ( id : 23 )
yn ( id : 23 ) n;
re he an ix @ @v is ed at me n ( id : 23 ) .
is nt an be ed by he on of es in he rd el nd re es no al re nd at dy ed or ng he se
te at he or rm y
n ( id : 23 ) yn is ot a on of he ut of he rd l; ss , on st ow rd in he el se he ed an ix @ @u es as a on of he ns of he en ts nd he ut ts of he
re : a rd rk at es a rd el .
he on ts re he ut ts of he em .
y ( id : 23 ) y y ( id : 23 ) ^y y ( id : 23 ) ^y
ed ce or
le : he or ls nd ir es
he or ls
it is nt to fy he gs of he or ls ed in ns nd .
as wn in le , re re ee or ls at an be ed om he es y , ^y , nd he on or y ( id : 23 ) ^y , he ce or y ( id : 23 ) y , nd he ed ce or y ( id : 23 ) ^y .
ll ee of se or ls re le to he er se ch of he ls y , y nd ^y re le he et y nd he al on y re ed by he nt , as he ed on ^y is le ly .
or ng he rd el , he on or is ly he te or al .
he ng of he se el , er , an be ed on er he ce or or he ed ce or .
ng he ce or ee on as he ge at he em an rn an ct se el en gh he rd el is ly te .
re re wo ns or is : st , on es he ma of he st al in on ey re os of he ed nt .
at is , an te an ix ot ve os of he ed nt ts at ch y ( id : 23 ) y is ro , gh it an ce al os us al ma .
nd , if he ed ts ed th he te rd el ve ve er ct th he ic nt in on , en he ed ep of he hm is ll in he st .
us he hm an in le nd an ct se el en gh he rd el is ly te .
re ay so be es to ng he ed ce or .
ar , it ay be er in me ns to in ng ls ng he al el er an he al nt rt , ky , mc - nd , & on , ; on , .
ch al ls an be ht of as a rm of al ce " in he se of on - to - ts or ng " in he se of on - to - on .
se es ad to ed ce if he rd el is ly te .
ct ns ot be nd th ch es , er , ss he rd el is ct .
in ny es he wn ng om ns to ns an be ed to a es of er gs , ch of ch an be ed ly .
or le , it ay en be le to el he xt - te on nd he ut on ly er an ng em as a le te on .
in ch es , he an ix @ @u an be ed ng he in le to ld he ng ed ic nt :
jn = ( id : 23 )
yn ( id : 23 ) yn :
he ed an es in is on re ed by ng es rd gh he ng rd ls , ch of ch re
on ng es
a te se el ws he er to ze he ns at re ed to ow ny ed ry .
in he al on on we ly
is on is ed or ss nd is ot ed or he er of he er .
me at he ng of an se el is of ry rn nd he ng of ar et es is ry .
he ng le en by on ds ns at rt he cs of he nt at he nt nt in te ce , ss of er at nt is on a ed ry or ot .
in ms of rk es , is ch ds to ng rd ks to el he al rd nd se te on re ee re .
in he nt on we er a re ed em on in ch he us is on ar es of et es .
is on is ed on al us nd is ly ed th ds in al on - ol ry rk , ; un , .
he hm at ts is a rm of on - in - me " rt , on , & ms , in a nt rk at es a ed rd el .
he hm rs om he hm ed ve in at it ot ly ts he ip en ac - ns nd ns at he nt nt in te ce ut so es he nt te rd he ed ry .
we er an le of et es fy
ng nd ne he ng
n ( id : 23 ) nt y
n ( id : 23 ) g;
re is an ex ss et es nd y is an wn on of he te x nd he on u .
he on u is a ed on of he te x nd he et y
u = x; y
as in he us on , we se he ng le on he ic nt of j , at is , he nt ed ng a ar le ry y :
n ( id : 23 ) nt y
n ( id : 23 ) yn :
he nt of is st al an be ed ng he us of ns ee so un , , ra & hy , .
ng n nt he or of al es of j th ct to xn , nd ng n nt he or of al es of j th ct to un , ix a ws at he nt of j is en by he ng ce ns :
n ( id : 23 ) yn
n ( id : 23 ) =
re : a nt rk th a rd el .
he es ed by ds re it ay ts .
re he an es re ll ed at me ep n nd z ds or xn + us , he an es @x nd @u re he va - es of he xt - te on .
is on es on - in - me in a nt rk at es a rd el of he xt - te nc - on nd he ut on .
as wn in re , he nt rk is ly he me as he rk in re , pt at re re it on - ns th it ay ts en he xt - te nd he nt te .
on - in - me es es rd gh se nt ns as ed by he ce ns in ns nd .
as in he al on se , he ns or ng he nt
ly , re an be ht of as a al se of re in ch he op -
ed or ls op at he te ts cf .
an , .
ve he on of he ce or y ( id : 23 ) y by a es of se an es , al of ch re wn a ri .
ur ch to ti - ng he wn rs is ce in to rn rd ls of he ng gs nd to te ls rd gh he ls .
us he an es @u , @x , nd @x in ns , , nd re ll ed by ed es in ng he ed ic nt
in he ng wo ns , we ue he on of he al ng ch in he xt of wo em ns .
he st on es ng in a ic nt , as he nd on es ng in a ic nt .
in th ns , we ze he al on on of al
an nt is id to be ic if he ct of ny en on is nt of he ry of us ns .
in ic ts he ng om ns to ns an be ed ut ce to a et of te es .
ch ts de a ed in in ch to dy he ng of se gs .
in is on , we nt an ve ic nt nd us on wo es : he ts of ex se es in he on om ns to ns nd he em of al - ed ng .
he em at we er is at of ng he rd nd se ne - cs of a ee - nt ar rm .
as wn in re nd re he on - on of he rm is ed by he ee nt es q; q; nd q , nd he ng ir of an es x nd x .
he on at es se es is he rd ic on x = gq .
it is ed in ed rm ng ry ry :
x = " sq + sq + q + sq + q + q
nq + nq + q + nq + q + q ;
re l; l; nd l re he nk hs .
he rd ic on gq is a ny - to - ne or ry an on at is de he ry of he ce , re re an in - te er of nt le ns to ve at on .
is es at ( id : 23 ) x is ot a n; er , re re an te he se ic on g er of se ic ns ng to ar es of ts q in he se es of ch of he an ns .
he em of ng an se ic er or he rm is at of ng a ar se ng he ny le se gs .
( 23 , 23 )
re : a ee - nt ar rm .
re : he rd nd se gs ed th rm cs .
in he ns ed ow , he nt - le ns of he rm re ed ng he or sq ( id : 23 ) ; q; qt , er an he or of nt es .
is ly ts he on of he ts to he ls
, ; , nd ; , ly , ng at ch nt of he nt - le on or is ed to ge er he al ( id : 23 ) ; .
he an es x nd x re ed as al rs ng er ( id : 23 ) ; .
in ll of he ns , se es re ed ly as al - ed ns of ts in he rk .
us , ee ts re ed to nt nt - le ng - ns nd wo ts re ed to nt an ns .
er ls on he ns re ed in ix b .
he ty em
ne ch to ng an se ng is to de ng rs to he er by ng he ut or of he nt nd ng he le of he ts nd ts .
is ch , ch we ed to er as ct se ng , " as en ed in he in of se cs by in .
ns ea is to ly le ts q in nt ce nd to se he al rm to te he rd ic on x = gq , by ng ng rs x; q or ng he er .
he er is ed by on of he ng st al :
fq ( id : 23 ) qt q ( id : 23 ) qg
re q = hx is he ut of he er .
as we ed er , a ty th he ct se ng ch is at he on of he st al in on es ot ly ld an se ic on .
he em es se of he ny - to - ne re of he rd ic on cf .
re .
in ar , if wo or re of he ly ed ts q en to ap to he me nt , en he ng ta at is ed to he er is ne - to - ny .
he ar er in ch he cy is ed ds on he rm of he st se of he um - of - ed or en in on ds an ic ge er ts at ap to he me nt .
an ge in nt ce , er , es ot ly ld a ct lt in an ce , se he se es of ar ns re ot ly ex .
is es at he ut of he er ay be in or en gh he em as ed to he um of he st al .
in re we te at he se cs of he ee - nt rm is ot ex .
to ee if is ty as he ed ct on he ct se ng re we ed a on in ch a rd rk th ne en er as ed to rn he se cs of he ee - nt rm .
he on ed et rs to he rk by ng ly om a rm on in nt ce .
ut rs re ed by ng he et rs to an ce ng to on .
he al ue of he ot - an - re ms nt - ce or as : , ed er he st ls .
er ; ng ls he ed or ed te at a ue of : .
a or ld as en ed by ng ed an rs as ts to he rk , ng he nt - le ts , nd ng se ts to an ce ng on .
he ng or ld is wn in re .
as an be en , re is al or at ny ns of he ce , en gh he ng hm as ed .
if ng is ed , he ci of he rs ue to ft , ut he ms or ns ly nt .
al - gh is or is ly ue to he te ng te nd he om ng
re : he ty of se cs .
he ed on is an ge in nt ce of he wo id ns .
re nt , " ee ow & ns , , he or ns ve : en en he ng te is en to ro .
us , nt ot ac - nt or he or , ch st be ue to he ty of he se ic on .
te , or le , at he or ed in re is ed in he er ft on of re .
in re , we te at he al ng ch an nd a ar - ar se ic ng .
we ed a on at as ed th he ct er ed om ct se ng .
he la - on ed a rd el at ad en ed ly he rd el as ed ng he ct se ng ls .
a id of ly ed ns in an ce as ed to de ts ng he nd se of he al ng re .
on ch al he or in an ce as ed rd gh he rd el nd ed to ge he ts of he er .
er ; ch ng ls es gh he id of ar - ts , he ng or ld as ed .
as wn in he re , he or or es rd ro ut he e; us , he er is ng rd a ar se ic on .
he se of a id is ot y; he re so ks if an ns re ed
ly on ch al .
re : ar - ic ce of ct se ng .
ch or ts he or at a ar on in he ce .
a er ue of he al ng ch is he se th ch it is le to te al ts in he ng re nd by as he ce of a ar se on .
or le , a um - rm nt an be ed by ng a ty rm of he rm ( id : 23 ) x to he ed rs at he ut of he er .
al ss ts an be ed by ng al or ms of he rm xn ( id : 23 ) xn ( id : 23 ) .
ch ts an be ed at er es in he rk as ll , ng he ut ts or en ts of he rd el .
it is so le to de al al ts to he er nd by rn le , ly - te se ns .
se ts of he al ng ch re ed in re il in an , .
ct se ng es ot rn in a al - ed er .
to rn a ic an et , he re st le er a ly ge on of nt ce nd ly on on .
cs ay be le to ct he ch to in ns of nt ce , ut ch cs re ly or ge
re : ar - ic ce of al ng .
ut he re of he se ng nd an ly ll be ed to he al ng re .
al ng is ly al - ed .
it is ed on he ce or or a ic an et nd is le of ng an ct on or a ar et in a ll er of ls .
is is ed by he on wn in re .
ng om he er wn in re , a ar an et as ed or en ve ls .
as wn in re , he rk es lf so at he or is ll in he ty of he et .
er en al ls , he or at he et is ro in he ng - nt on of he on .
te rd ls
we ed an al on to dy he ts of cy in he rd el .
he on ed he er of ls ed to he ng of he rd el om to .
he er as ed to an ms on of .
at he ee et ns ( id : 23 ) : ; : , : ; : , nd : ; : .
as wn in re , he ts te at an te er an be nd th an te rd el .
er ls re ed to rn he et ns to on th he st te rd l; er , he po in ng te th ss te rd ls is ly ht .
ly
re : al - ed ng .
a an et in he er ht on of he re as ed or en ve ls .
he or rs re se to ro in he ty of he et .
id ng is ed en en he rd el is ed or ly ls , en gh he ge ms or in he rd el is : m er ls , ed to : m er ls .
er ns th ct se ng
in ms th ny ut es it is en ic to re an se el er he re ce .
in ch es he al - ed re of al ng is ly nt se it ws he em to in se es or a ed et of ns .
er , he rd el st so be ed er a ed on of on ce , nd re is no al a ri od or ng he te on of he ce in ch to le .
at is , gh al ng is al - ed in ts on of he se el , it is ot ly al - ed in ts on of he rd el .
se er ct se ng or al
ng is ly al - ed , in ny en em it is nt to er er it is re ea - le to re he se el or he rd el in a on - al - ed
rd el ng ( ls )
re : er of ls ed to in he er to an ms on of .
as a on of he er of ls ed to ng he rd el .
ch nt is an ge er ee ns .
er .
is ue is em - nt , ng on he re of he on ng ed , he re of he ss of ns at an be ed by he er , nd he re of he ng hm .
it is th ng , er , at re is an nt eo in ty en he se el nd he or - rd el , ue to he ct at ir on is he ty ng .
is eo ts a ty en he es of ms or ch ct se ng nd al ng re te .
we ve at al ng is re ly ul , er , se an te rd el is ly le as an te se el is ot .
in ny es , it ay be le to rn an te rd el at is ly ed at a ed et of ns er an ng an te se el ly nd ng on on .
ic ts : ne - ep ic ls
to te he on of al ng to ms in ch he nt as te , we er he em of ng to ol a wo - nt ot rm .
on - ng a ic ot rm es ng he te es to se he rm to ow ed es .
he em is lt se of he ar gs en he ns of he wo ks nd se of he us es ue to he ng te ms .
he rm at we er is he wo - nk on of he rm wn ly in re .
ts on at ch nt in me is ed by he nt es qt nd qt , nd by he an es xt nd xt .
he ic on xt = qt at es nt es to an es an be ed by ng l al ro in on :
xt = " qt + qt + qt
qt + qt + qt ;
re l nd l re he nk hs .
he te ce or he rm is he ur - al ce of ns nd es of he ks .
he ce of ot rm cs is a ng en he es ed at he ts nd he ng ar ns of he ks .
is ng is _q , nd q nt on he te es of le nd ar ty .
et q , nt he or of nt es , ar es , nd ar ns , ly , nd et nt he es .
in he gy of er ns , q nd _q er te he te " nd is he on . " or ce , we ke q to nt he xt - te " ee he on ow .
to in an og of he xt - te on in on , he ng al on an be ed or he ar on of he ks , ng rd an or an al ns ig , :
m qq + q; _q _q + gq = ;
re m q is an ia ix , q; _q is a ix of is nd al ms , nd gq is he or of ue ue to ty .
ur st is ot in he cs nd se ns er se , ut in he al ps at ey ne .
in ar , to in a xt - te on , " we te on by ng or he ns to ld :
( id : 23 ) q ( id : 23 ) q; _q _q ( id : 23 ) q;
( id : 23 ) q is ys ed ig , .
on ex - re he ce of m es he te - nt ip en es nd ns at ch nt in me : en he te es qt nd qt , nd en he ue t , he on qt an be ed by on in on .
we er to is on as he rd cs of he rm .
re : he rd nd se gs ed th rm cs .
an se ng en es nd ns an be ed by in - ng on in he er er .
en he te es qt nd qt , nd en he on qt , on in on ds he re - ng es .
is ic on is ed to as se cs .
it ld be ar at se cs nd rd cs re en - ry ns : on of om on to on ds he te ty ng .
se ps en es , ns , nd es re ed in re .
it is ul to re is re th he ic le wn in re .
in th he ic se nd he ic se , he rd nd se gs at st be ed re ed ns of he us es of he nt es .
in he ic se , is is ue to he ct at he al ms of he al ns he ms m , c , nd g re it ns of te er an me .
he ic se an be ht of as a on of he ic se in ch al al te es re ed to ex he gs at st be ed .
re is an on of re , th he on ng he le of he xt - te . " in al , or ms ed by al ns , it is nt to ne he on of xt - te " in ms of he me ve of ne or re of he te es e . g . , ns in he se of rm cs .
is on is ly nt th he nt in ng s; ed , if he al ns in on re ed in te me on a er , en he al hm st te he ns ed by on to rt he ns nd es at he nt me ep to he ns nd es at he xt me ep .
is ve is ly at ng he al on on of al
se of he on of se in ed ls , er , st ic en - ns of rd al ls ld ze ns nd es er an ns .
in ch es he al on of on ld be ed as rt of he rd
ng a ic rd el
a rd el of rm cs is a rk at ns a on ^q of he on q , en he on q , he ty _q , nd he ue .
he ro - te ng al or ch a rk is he al on q , ng he ng st al :
fq ( id : 23 ) qt q ( id : 23 ) qg :
he on ^q is a on of he on , he ty , he ue nd he
^q = ^f q; q; ; w :
or an te le of ol es , is st al is ed en a et of ts is nd ch at ^f ; w st es he rd al on en by on .
an nt ce en ic ms nd ic ms is at it is ly le to ce ry om ol ls in dy - al ts , se of ns of ty .
or le , if t in on is ed to be a ry te - se ic ss , en he ce of qt es ty ch ke a om lk .
is ds ta at is of le se or ng a el .
we ve ed wo ly ed es to me is em .
he st ch is to ce om um ns or he rm er an om es .
at is , we ne a ew ol al ut ch at he ed rm cs re en by :
m qq + q; _q _q + gq = kv _q ( id : 23 ) _u + pq ( id : 23 ) u;
or ed ts kp nd kv .
he om ol al u in is on ts as a al " um on or he rm an , nd he ed cs an be ed to te ng ta or ng he rd el .
he nd ch so es on nd rs om he st ch ly in he ce of he ol al ut .
er an ng om ls , he et es es re ed as ls at is , he es ed in he nd se of ng re so ed to in he rd el .
is ch is nt to ng a le ed - in al - ve pd ck er to ze he em ng a et of ce es nd by te ng ta .
ch se of an ry ck er is ar to ts se in he ck - or ng to , et al . , nd ct se ng on & er , ; er , es .
as is ed ow , he nd ch as he ge at it es ot re he rd el to be ed in a te se .
a pd er is a ce se ut is a ed um of on rs nd ty rs .
he on rs nd he ty rs re ed by ed rs ns re
re : he te ol em .
te ol em
he te em or ng he rm is wn in re .
he ol al in is am is he ue , ch is he um of wo ts :
= f f + f b;
re f f is a rd ue nd f b is he al ck ue ed by he ry ck er .
he rd er is he ng on - er at es rd a el of he se cs of he rm .
in he ly es of ng , he rd er es ll om es , us he or ce of ol is ed by he or - ng ck er .
en he rd er ns to be ed it es es at al - ow he em to ow ed es th er or , us he le of he ck er is ed .
ed , in he it re he rd er es to a ct se el , he rd ue es he em to ow a ed ry ut or nd he ck er is
as is ed ow , is nt is ot ly te .
he ng hm lf
es a rm of or - ng ck ol .
re nt ng no es .
us he em ts ly om ck - ed ol to rd - ed ol er he se of ng ee so on & er , ; to , et al . , ; er ,
re re wo or ls ed in ng se cs : he on or q ( id : 23 ) ^q nd he ce or q ( id : 23 ) q .
he on or is ed to in he rd el as ed in he us on .
ce he rd el is at st ly ed , he ce or an be ed in ng he se el .
he or is ed rd gh he rd el nd wn to he rd er re he ts re ed .
is ss es he al st al :
fq ( id : 23 ) qt q ( id : 23 ) qg :
he rm as ed ng id dy cs ng he ss to be ly ed ng he ks .
he ks re ed as in rs .
ls on he al ts re ed in ix c .
he on of he rd cs of he rm as ed ut ng a th - er ge - ta hm th a ng cy of hz .
he ol ls ed by he ks re ed at hz .
rd rd st ks re ed in ll of he la - ns .
re re wo rd ks in ch |a er nd a rd th ll ty as wn in re th he ox ed rm " ng ed by a rd el .
th he er nd he rd el re rd ks th a le er of ic en ts .
in ll of he ns , he te es , es , nd ns re re - ed ly as al - ed ns in he rk .
ls of he ks ed in he ns re ed in ix b .
in ll ut he al on ed ow , he ng of he rd el nd he ng of an se el re ed ut in te es .
he rd el as ed in an al se by ng a om ss to ve he ed cs en in on .
he om ss as a te se on al en ly in he ce wn in re .
he ng of he rd el as ed en he ed ms on or ed : =s .
as ed ve , it is so le to de he al on of ^q as rt of he rd el nd rn a ng se ut is he ed xt - te n; qn .
is ch ay be ed or ms in ch on of sy ls is a rn .
re : he ce he ey on nd ur et hs .
he es ve om ft to ht ng he hs wn .
re : ce on ne of he ur ed es .
a re ng .
b er ng ls .
ng th an ry ck er
er ng he rd el , he em ed to ol he rm ng he ur hs wn in re .
he et es re um rk es of ne nd on ch .
an ry al - ve pd ck er as ed , th on ns of : n ad nd ty ns of : n m ad .
re ws he ce on a ar ry re ng th he pd er ne nd ng he th ng al .
he ng ms re wn in re nd re .
he le hs in se es ow he ck es ed es nd he rd es id es .
as an be en , in he ly es of ng he es re
ed ly by he ck er nd in er es he es re ed ly by he rd er .
ng ut an ry ck er
an ng ce of he al - ed re of he rd ng ch is at it is le to rn an se ic el ut ng an ry ck er .
to ee hy is is he se , st te at um rk ce es nd er th " ce es ge ly in me .
is es at ve me ps re ly ed ng ls on he me ut r; us , he er es ly to a on " or a al on of te ce .
as he ry es , he on ks he t; us , he er es ly od es or to ny ng . " ut er ay , he al ng ch is lf a rm of or - ng ck ol in he er ce of he er .
ch or on st ly ve ay to ce of he ts if he em is to rn an se l; ss , it is a ul re of he hm at it ds to ze he rm ng ng .
is or is ed by he ns wn in re .
he re ws ce on he st ng al as a on of he ng te .
he ts te at ng he ng te ly es he in of he or - ng or of he hm .
en he ng te is et to . , he em es ly ct ce on he st ng al .
is re of he hm es it nt to fy he ng of he ng es ed th he al ng ch .
re ws wo ch ng es .
he er ve is he ms or at is ed th a ng te of . .
he er ve is he ms or at is ed en he ng te is ly et to ro er ch ng al .
ng he ng te to ro ws he ts of ng to be ed ly om he or - ng or .
he es ly al at on he ly ls he in or to ce is or on er an ng .
ng rd cs nd rd cs
ng he rd ic ls of is on th he rd ic ls of he ng on es it le to in he er ng te - an et es .
en at he ic el nd he ic el an be ed in el , re is ly no ce nt ed th ng he ed em .
in ur ns , we nd at ng es se by ly ht nt en ng an ts er an nt le ts .
mu = 23
mu = 23
mu = 23
mu = 23
mu = 23
mu = 23
re : ce on he st ng al as a on of he ng te .
mu = 23 mu = 23
re : ms or or ro nd on - ro ng es .
ng he rd el nd he er ly
he al ng ch es ng a rd el to in he r; us , ng of he rd el st de he ng of he er .
it is ot ry , er , to rn he rd el er he re te ce re ng he |a al rd el is ly nt .
er , as we ve ed , he al ng ch es ot re an ct rd te rd ls en ce .
se wo ts , in on th he se of th ce es , ly at it ld be le to rn he rd el nd he er ly .
an ry ck er is ed to ze he em y; er , ce he rd el ns to be ed , he ng hm lf ds to ze he em .
er , as he er ns to be ed , he rs se nd he ts of he ck er sh ly .
us he em ps lf rd an se el .
he on wn in re es he ty of is ch .
re : ng he rd el nd he er ly .
a er - ce re ng on wo of he et es .
b ce er
ng he me re as in us ts he em ed ur et es ng th ll om ts in th he er nd he rd el .
on ch me ep wo es of he on hm re ne ss th he on or q ( id : 23 ) ^q to ge he ts of he rd el , nd a nd ss th he ce or q ( id : 23 ) q to ge he ts of he er .
an ry al - ve pd ck er as ed , th on ns of : n ad nd ty ns of : n m ad .
as wn in he re , he em es to an le el of ce er ng ls .
gh he us ng re es re ns of he et es to ve a el of ce le to at of he wo - se ng re , he us re is in ct re nt an wo - se ng se it es th he al se of ng he rd el .
is ge st be ed st in s; in ar , he ty of ty is ed se of he or in he ts ed om he ly - ed rd el .
in ce we nd at it is en ry to se er ep es in he us ng ch an in he wo - se ng ch .
ry ts ve so wn at is le to se ed ns at ce he ed th ch he rd el es .
is an be ne ly or he te le ut nd he ue ut .
ic ts : ed ls
in he us on we ed ow he al nt of he is - al ed ng em an be ed by ge of a et of te es or he nt .
ng or ge of a et of te es is nt to ng at he er as or ge of he um ay en he me at ch an on is ed nd he me at ch an ct is ed in he on or .
in he nt on we nt ry ts at im to en he pe of he al ng ch to ss ms in ch he um ay is ot wn ee so os , .
a le le of ch a em is ne in ch a ot rm is ed to be in a in on at me t , re t is wn , nd re he ry in he en al om to t is ed .
ne ch to ng ch ms is to rn a ne - ep rd el of he rm cs nd en to se on - in - me in a nt rk at es he rd el nd a er an , ; to , .
in ny ms ng ed al es , er , it is er le or le to rn a ic rd el of he nt , er se he nt is oo ex or se ng he sk at nd es ot re ge of he on of ll of he te es .
er or le he em of ng he ht of a sh of er en es of ng ze re ed to a nd .
it is ly at a ul ne - ep ic el ld be ed or he id cs of he nd .
er , if he ol em is to ce es of ar ed ts , it ay ot be ry to el id cs in il .
a le rd el at ts an ed sh ht as a on of he ze of he ay ce .
an nd bs ed is ch by ng al ng to ve he em of ng to ce an ed um on a ng rt .
is em is ly ed as an ce ol em in ch he ly ve on ed by he nt is a al to te at re as ed to , on , & on , .
he ay en ns es ed to he rt nd he re al is wn nd ed an be ly ge .
in he it of he ng on , an nd bs so ed at it is le to el he cs of he rt - le m; us , he er ot be ed by ng on - in - me in a nt rk at es a ne - ep ic el of he nt .
a ue ry ay be ed by ng al ts on he al vo - on of he s; er , he ly it et on is ed to be at ed at he al me ep .
in os rk , on - in - me is ed in a ly - ed rk nd he ts re ed to ge ns er an s; er , he ea of ng a ne - ep rd ic el is he me .
ee so en & ow or an on to a ic em .
he ch ed by an nd bs es ng a rd el se ut is an ed an te of he se of he me il re .
is te is ed ng al ce es on , .
at me ps on ch re rs , he et ue or he rd el is ty :
et = ( id : 23 ) t;
re zt is he ut of he rd el , nd et is he or rm ed to ge he ts .
on ll er me ps , he ng al ce or rm is ed :
+ ^z ( id : 23 ) t +
ch ds an ng ic es ng ny ry at ds to re .
ce ed , he ut of he rd el is ed to de a nt or ng he er .
in ar , se he ed me of ng he le an be ed as he al of ng he me il re , he hm ns he er by ng ro us he ut of he rd el as he al or al .
he rd el ed by an nd bs rs in an nt ay om he er rd ls ed in is er .
se he me - il - re ds on re ns of he er , he ng at he rd el st rn ds ot ly on ed es of he nt ut so on he er .
en he er is ed by he ng hm , he ng at he rd el st rn so es .
us he rd el st be ed ly ng he ng of he er .
in al , or ms in ch he rd el ns to te an al of he ed - op cs , he ng of he rd el nd he er st ed
al ce es de he al ng ch th en - ed ty .
ey ke it le to rn to ke ng - rm ns nd by st rs on he is on es at re al in me .
ey an so be ed to rn ti - ep rd ls .
in on th on - in - me , ey de a le et of es or ng ac - ns on he is of ly - ed es .
in is er we ve ed at he ed ng gm is er an is ly ed .
he al ed ng rk ds er - ed ng to ms in ch ed es re le ly or he al
is ue an be ed as an le of ng ed ng ms to ve
a nt ng em ee ow .
es of a rs ns nd ot or he ns es .
is is a ig - nt ng of he al on of he er " in he ed ng in is on we de er on of he ss of ms at an be ed in he al ed ng rk .
we ss le es of ng ta nd we st al ed ng th
ow is ng ta ed ?
to de rt or ur nt at al ed ng is re ic an al ed ng it is ry to er le es of ng ta or al ed ng .
we ss wo ch es , ch we er to as on nd ng .
ne of he st on ys or ns to re ls is gh on .
ls ch as ce or cs re en ed by ng er on ng he ll nd ng to te ir or .
gh in me es a er ay be le to st ar ns of mb on , ch ct on es ot ar to be a ry nt of ll on .
a se in nt is ch en re ch by ng ch ds , ot by ng on on ow to ve ir rs .
ur on of a al ed ng em es a et of en - on , ed me ng rs .
ng by on ly es ed es le to he er .
th rd to ns , re re ee si - es .
st , he er ay ow or be le to er he ns of he on ng as a el .
ly , an ic al ng of ns is le as ng as he ng is nt .
or le , a ld ng ch ay ve an on to nk , ay ve er on ng er by ng he rm er , " nd ay ze he ic on of er " as a al et or ng he ry ts or ng a re to nk , en gh he er on es he er to se a re .
ly , en he er is ng an se el , as in he ns ed in is er , he on is ly le se it is he me as ed me .
ur on of al ed ng em as a et of ng rs is of se an on at st be ed en ng th ex ks .
in a ex sk ch as ce , it is ly ot sy to ne he ce of ry ta to be ed as al ts or he ng re .
ed , he er ay er he ce of ts ce he or he as ed a um of ll .
he er ay so ed to se he sk to er ks nd to et te ls .
we ct at he le of al rs " is to lp th se al es er an to de al ts ly to he
er ce of ta or he al ed ng gm is a ss at we er to as ng . " ng is a al ss of ng
ct ls to ir ng ry on , ut rd to he ns ed to ve he ls .
ng es ng at it ld ok ke " or el ke " to rm me sk .
is ss ly es al ve nd ve ng es as ll as ce th ar ks .
he nt at we nt to ze is at ng ed ot er to he ns at re ed to ly ry ut a k; at is he em ed by he al ng re .
ns th nt ng
an ve ch to ng he ss of ms at we ve ed in is er is to se nt ng ms to , ; on , .
nt ng ms re ed on he on at he on - nt es an on of he ns ed by he er .
se he on an be an ry on , he ch is in le le to he al em of ng on he is of al ls .
nt ng ms rk by ng he es of it - ng ar ns .
he ng re is ed on he ns ed om he nt .
if he on of an on is le en he il - ty ed th at on is ed nd he es ed th ll er ns re ed .
ly , if he on is le , en he ty of he en on is ed nd he es ed th ll er ns re ed .
se ic es of nt ng ms er in nt ys om he ng es of ed ng ms .
ed ng ms re ed on he ce of a ed or or er an an on .
he ed or or is ly , gh ot ys , ed by ng he al ut or to a et or .
if he ed or or is ll , ng to a le on , he hm es no es .
if he ed or or is ge , ng to an le on , he hm ts he nt on in or of a ar ve on .
ed ng ms do ot ly se he es of ll ve s; er , ey se ar es ed on he ty of he ed or or .
it is nt to sh en ng ms nd ng go - ms .
se he me ng hm an en be ed in a ty of ng ms , a re to sh en ms nd ms an ad to ng .
is is ly ue of nt ng ks nd ed ng ks se of he se ps en ve ls nd ed or rs .
a ed or or an ys be ed to an ve al ny ed ic on of he rm of he ed
as ed ut by to , on & on , is on en nt ng nd ed ng is nt ly if he er as a re of re an wo
or or s; us , nt ng ms an ys be ed or ed ng ms .
ly , an ve al an ys be ed to a ed or or ng he ry at we ve d; ee so ro , ; us , ed ng ms an ys be ed or nt ng ms .
he on of a ng gm , er , as re to do th he er in ch a em is ly ed an th he hm ed to ve he em .
in he se of he ll er , or le , ng at he nt es al on ch as oo ar to he ft , " oo ng , " or oo rt , " is ry nt om ng at he nt es ve on of he rm od , " er , " or st " .
re , ng ms er in ic ty en ed ss ms : ng a nt ng hm to ve a su - ed ng em is ly to be nt se ch ms do ot ke ge of al on .
ly , ng ed ng al - ms to ve nt ng ms is ly to be nt se of he ra ry at is ed to ce a ed or or .
in ry , gh it as en ed at he ce en in - nt ng nd ed ng is he rs ce on a er , " we el at is nt is en .
he on en he ed ng gm nd he nt ng gm es in he on of vi - al ck as an or al or as an ve al , ot he te em in ch ch ls re ed .
ny ms ng al it nt ay be er ed of as ed ng ms er an nt ng ms if he al ck al an be ed as a ce or .
re re a er of es th he al ns en er - ed , " nt , " nd ed " ng .
ed ng is ly id to be nt on a er " to de et es or he ut ts of a rk .
is is ed as a on se in ny ns re is no ch er .
ss , he nt en es de ry on ut he es of an on ch an be ed in ng al od - ns st as if a er ad ed he on to he er ly .
he ea is at he er st es an al el at ws on of he es of ns .
he al el an be ed as a sm or ng al ry on ut he es of ns to al on or ng al ns .
is wo - se re ds he pe of he ed ng gm to de a ad ge of ms in ch ns re ed by an wn al ss re ng ed to ed es .
we st ed is ch in he se of ng an se el of a le ic " nt .
we ed at ur od of ng a rd el of he nt as a er of nt es er he ve od of ng he se el ly .
se es re ly nt in es re re is no ue se el .
we so ed at is ea an be ed ly to he se of a ic nt .
in is se , we ly te th he rd el nd he er i . e . , er so ey ke to nt he nt te of he nt .
ly , we ed ow is ch an be ed th al ce es to ld a em le of ng om ry ck at is ct to an wn ay .
we so ed at ve rk in he dy of ng an be li - ed by ng a on en ng ms nd ng ms .
a ty of ng ms an en be ed to a ar ce of a ng m; us , it is nt to ze ot ly he ic ts of ny en ng em , ch as he re of he on en he er nd he nt nd he re of he es to be ed , ut so he os in ic ty at se en nt es of ng ms re ed to he em .
er ch is ed to te he al es at he ls of ms nd ms nd to fy he ps en ls .
we ve at ch ch ll in to ro - de a al is or ng ns en te es in he al dy of an ng .
