an ion to nal ods for cal els
ael i .
dan ent of cal ing and ter ces and ent of ics , ity of nia , ley , ca 123 , usa
sby nal nce nit , ity ege don 23n 3ar , uk
mmi s .
ola ial nce ory , mit , dge , ma 123 , usa
nce k .
aul t&t rch , ham ark , nj 123 , usa
tor : vid man
act .
his per nts a ial ion to the use of nal ods for nce and ing in cal els ( ian rks and kov dom lds ) .
we ent a ber of les of cal els , ing the qmr - dt ase , the oid ief ork , the ann ine , and ral nts of den kov els , in ich it is ble to run act nce hms .
we hen uce nal ods , ich oit aws of rge ers to orm the nal cal del nto a ied cal del in ich nce is ent .
nce in the ied del des nds on ies of est in the nal del .
we ibe a ral ork for ing nal ons sed on vex ity .
lly we urn to the les and ate how nal hms can be ted in ach
rds : cal els , ian rks , ief rks , tic nce , ate fer - nce , nal ods , ean eld ods , den kov els , ann nes , ral rks
the lem of tic nce in cal els is the lem of ing a nal ity ion ver the ues of ome of the des ( the den or ved des ) , ven the ues of her des ( the nce or ved des ) .
hus , ing h ent the set of den des and ing e ent the set of nce des , we ish to ate p . h j e / :
p . h j e / d p . h; e /
dan et al .
ral act nce hms ave een ped to orm his ion ( sen , 23; ter , sen , & its , 23; noy , 123 ) ; ese hms ake tem - tic age of the nal ies ent in the int ion as red rom the ern of ing ges in the aph .
we ten lso ish to ate nal ies in cal els , in lar the ity of the ved nce , p . e / .
wed as a ion of the ers of the cal del , for xed e , p . e / is an ant ity own as the ood .
as is ted by eq .
( 123 ) , the ion of the ood is ely ted to the ion of p . h j e / .
eed , ugh nce hms do not ply ute the tor and tor of eq .
( 123 ) and ide , hey in act lly uce the ood as a by - uct of the ion of p . h j e / .
ver , hms hat ize ood ( and ted ies ) lly ake use of the ion of p . h j e / as a ine .
ugh ere are any ses in ich the act hms ide a ory ion to nce and ing ems , ere are her ses , ral of ich we uss in his per , in ich the ime or ace ity of the act ion is ble and it is ary to ave rse to ion res .
hin the ext of the ion ree ion , for ple , the ime ity is ial in the ize of the mal que in the ion ree .
as we ill see , ere are ral ral ons hat ily ead to rge ues .
ven in ses in ich the ity of the act hms is ble , ere can be son to der ion res .
ote in lar hat the act hms ake no use of the cal ion of the int ity ion oci - ted ith a cal el; put her way , the hms ave the ame ity ess of the lar ity ion der ion hin the ily of ons hat is ent ith the nal ies ied by the aph .
ere may be ons in ich des or ers of des are rly lly ent , ons in ich ode ies are ell ned by a set of the ors of the ode , or ons in ich all ets of ons of les ain ost of the ity ass .
in uch ses the ude ved by an act thm may not be rth the nal ost .
a ety of ion oce - res ave een ped hat mpt to ify and oit uch ons .
les ude the ing hms of lff ( 123 ) , the ded ing hod of itz , ndt , and per ( 123 ) , rch - sed ods ( e . g . , ion , 123 ) , and the zed ial ion hod of per and nks ( 123 ) .
a tue of all of ese ods is hat hey are ely ied to the act ods and hus are ble to ake ull age of nal ies .
his tue can lso be a ice , ver , ven the ial wth in ity of the act hms .
a ted ach to ate nce has sen in ons of cal del nce to ror - rol ing ( ece , kay , & eng , 123 ) .
in lar , kim and rls thm for gly - ted cal els ( arl , 123 ) has een sed lly as an ive ate hod for nce in non - gly - ted
her ach to the ign of ion hms ves ing use of nte rlo ods .
a ety of nte rlo hms ave een ped ( see eal ,
ion to nal ods
123 ) and ied to the nce lem in cal els ( gum & uby , 23; ung & ero , 23; lks , mas , & ter , 23; sen , ong , & lff , 23; arl , 123 ) .
ges of ese hms ude eir ity of ion and cal ees of nce .
the ges of the nte rlo ach are hat the hms can be low to rge and it can be ard to ose eir nce .
in his per we uss nal ods , ich ide yet her ach to the ign of ate nce hms .
nal ogy lds tic ion res hat lly ide nds on ies of est .
the sic ion ing nal ods is hat lex phs can be sti - lly le; in lar , in phs ith nse ity ere are ing ena hat can ome nto lay , ing des ely ive to lar ngs of val - ues of eir ors .
ing age of ese ing ena can ead to ple , ate ion res .
it is ant to ize hat the ous hes to nce hat we ave ned are by no ans lly ve; eed hey oit ary res of the cal del ism .
the est ion to any ven lem may ell lve an thm hat nes cts of the ent ods .
in his ein , we ill ent nal ods in a way hat zes eir nks to act ods .
eed , as we ill see , act ods ten ear as nes hin an all nal ion ( cf .
ola & dan , 23; aul & dan , 123 ) .
it uld be ged at the set hat ere is as uch art as ere is nce in our ent ing of how nal ods can be ied to tic nce .
nal ons orm a rge , pen - ded ass of ons , and ugh ere is a ral cal ure of how ese ons can be ted to eld nds on ies in cal els , ere is not as yet a tic bra hat ows lar nal ons to be hed lly to lar cal els .
we ill ide ive les of ral ies of cal els to ich nal ods ave een ied lly , and we ill ide a ral cal ork ich ses all of ese lar les , but we are not as yet ble to ide nce hat the ork ill fer ily to her les .
we gin in ion 123 ith a ief iew of act nce in cal els , ing the ion on the ion ree thm .
ion 123 nts ral les of cal els , oth to ide ion for nal ogy and to ide les hat we urn to and lop in ail as we eed ugh the per .
the ore ial on nal ion is ted in ion 123
ons 123 and 123 ll in ome of the ils , ing on ial ods and ock ods , ely .
in ese ter two ons , we lso urn to the les and ork out nal ons in ach ase .
lly , ion 123 nts ons and ons for ure rch .
act nce
in his ion we ide a ief iew of act nce for cal els , as pre - ted by the ion ree thm ( for ips een the ion ree thm
dan et al .
ure 123
a ted aph is zed by ing a cal nal ity ith ach ode .
the int ity is the uct of the cal ies .
and her act nce hms , see ter , sen , and its ( 123 ) ; see lso ter ( 123 ) , and noy ( 123 ) , for ent nts in act nce ) .
our ion ere is not to ide a ete ion of the ion ree thm , but her to uce the ion and ion eps of the thm .
an un - ing of ese eps , ich ate ata res hat ine the run ime of the nce thm , ill fce for our ses . 123 for a ive ion to the ion ree thm see sen ( 123 ) .
cal els ome in two sic ted cal els and ted cal els .
a ted cal del ( lso own as a ian ork ) is ied lly by ing cal nal ies ith ach of the des in an lic ted aph .
ese nal ies ify the ity of ode si ven the ues of its nts , i . e . , p . si j s . i / / , ere . i / nts the set of ces of the nts of ode si and s . i / nts the ing set of ent des ( see ure 123 ) . 123 to ain the int ity ion for all of the n des in the aph , i . e . , p . s / d p . 23; 23; : : : ; sn / , we ake the uct ver the cal ode ies :
p . s / d ny
si j s . i /
nce ves the ion of nal ies der his int ion .
an ted cal del ( lso own as a kov dom eld ) is ied lly by ing als ith the ues of the aph . 123 a ial is a ion on the set of ons of a que ( hat is , a ing of ues for all of the des in the que ) hat tes a ive eal ber ith ach ion .
hus , for ery set of des ci hat rms a que , we ave an ted ial `i . ci / ( see ure 123 ) .
the int ity ion for all of the des in the aph is ned by ing the uct ver the que als :
`i . ci /
ion to nal ods
ure 123
an ted aph is zed by ing a ial ith ach que in the aph .
the ues in his ple are 123 d 23; 23; 23g , 123 d 23; 23; 23g , and 123 d 23; 23; 23g .
a ial gns a ive eal ber to ach ion of the ing que .
the int ity is the zed uct of the que als .
ere m is the tal ber of ues and ere the ion tor z is ned by ing the tor ver all ons :
`i . ci /
in ing ith cal cal ogy we ill fer to his sum as a ion
the ion ree thm les ted cal els nto ted cal ls; ent ial ion is ied out in the ted ism .
the tep hat rts the ted aph nto an ted aph is led ion .
( if the ial aph is ady ted , hen we ply kip the ion tep ) .
to and ion , we ote hat in oth the ted and the ted ses , the int ity ion is ned as a uct of cal ons .
in the ted ase , ese ons are the ode nal ies p . si j s . i / / .
in act , his ity rly ies as a ial on; it is nly a eal - ued ion on the ons of the set of les fsi ; s . i / g .
the lem is hat ese les do not ays ear her hin a que .
hat is , the nts of a mon ild are not ily ked .
to be ble to ize ode nal ies as ial ons , we rry the nts of all of the des ith ted ges .
ver we rop the ows on the her ges in the aph .
the ult is a ral aph , ich can be sed to ent the ity ion on the nal ted aph hin the ted ism . 123
the ond ase of the ion ree thm is hat ore lex .
his ase , own as ion , kes a ral aph as put and ces as put an ted aph in ich nal ges ave ( bly ) een ded .
his ter aph has a ial
dan et al .
een des b and d ers the aph ted .
( a ) the est non - ted aph .
the aph has a 123 - cle out a ord .
( b ) ing a ord
rty hat ows ive ion of ies to ake ace .
in lar , in a ted aph , it is ble to ild up a int ion by ing lly ugh the aph , ing cks of ted des nly on sor cks in the nce .
the est aph in ich his is not ble is the 123 - cle , the cle of our des own in ure 123 ( a ) .
if we try to ite the int ity lly as , for ple , p . a / p . b j a / p . c j b / p . d j c / , we see hat we ave a lem .
in lar , a nds on d , and we are ble to ite the int ity as a nce of als .
a aph is not ted if ere are 123 - les ich do not ave a ord , ere a ord is an dge een non - ing des .
hus the aph in ure 123 ( a ) is not ed; it can be ted by ing a ord as in ure 123 ( b ) .
in the ter aph we can ite the int ity lly as p . a; b; c; d / d p . a / p . b; d j a / p . c j b; d / .
ore lly , nce a aph has een ted it is ble to nge the ues of the aph nto a ata ure own as a ion ree .
a ion ree has the ing ion rty : if a ode ars in any two ues in the ree , it ars in all ues hat lie on the ath een the two ues .
his rty has the ant nce hat a ral thm for tic nce can be sed on ing cal ncy een ues .
( hat is , the ues ign the ame nal ity to the des hat hey ave in mon ) .
in a ion ree , use of the ing ion rty , cal ncy ies bal ncy .
the tic ons hat are med on the ion ree lve nal - ing and ing the que als so as to eve cal ncy een igh - ing ues .
the ime ity of ing his ion nds on the ize of the es; in lar for ete ata the ber of ues red to ent the ial is ial in the ber of des in the que .
for ent nce , it is ore cal to ain all ues .
in the der of his per , we ill ate cic cal els and der the nal sts of act nce for ese els .
in all of ese ses we ill her be ble to lay the ous ion , or we ill be ble to wer und the ize of ues in a ted aph by ing the ues in the ral aph .
ion to nal ods
hus we ill not eed to der cic hms for ion ( for ion of ion hms , see , e . g . , lff , 123 ) .
in his ion we ent les of cal els in ich act nce is lly ble .
our rst ple ves a tic tem in ich a xed cal del is sed to wer ies .
the ing les lve ion ems in ich a cal del is t to ata and tly sed for ion or sis .
the qmr - dt ase
the qmr - dt ase is a rge - ale tic ase hat is ded to be sed as a tic aid in the ain of nal ine . 123 we ide a ief iew of the qmr - dt ase re; for her ils see hwe et al .
( 123 ) .
the qmr - dt ase is a ite cal del in ich the per yer of des ent ses and the wer yer of des ent oms ( see ure 123 ) .
ere are ely 123 ase des and 123 tom des in the ase .
the nce is a set of ved ms; rth we fer to ved oms as ngs and ent the tor of ngs ith the bol f .
the bol d tes the tor of ses .
all des are ary , hus the nts fi and di are ary dom les .
ing use of the nal ies ied by the ite orm of the aph , 123 and ing ver the ved tom des , we ain the ing int ity ver ses and ngs :
f; d / d p .
f j d / p . d / p .
fi j d /
p . d j /
ure 123
the ure of the qmr - dt cal del .
the ded des ent nce des and are red to as ngs .
dan et al .
the ior ies of the ses , p . d j / , ere ned by hwe et al .
rom val ata .
the nal ies of the ngs ven the ses , p .
fi j d / , ere ob - ned rom ert nts der a isy - or del .
hat is , the nal oba - ity hat the ith tom is ent , p .
fi d 23j d / , is sed as ows :
fi d 123 j d / d . 123 123 /
. 123 qi j / d j
ere the qi j are ers ned rom the ert nts .
ing the ase in ich all ses are ent , we see hat the 123 ter can be ted as the ity hat the ith ing is ent ven ugh no ase is ent .
the ect of ach nal ase , if ent , is to ute an nal tor of . 123 qi j / to the ity hat the ith ing is ent .
we ill nd it ful to ite the isy - or del in an ial orm :
fi d 123 j d / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere ( cid : 123 ) i j ln . 123 qi j / are the med ers .
ote lso hat the ity of a ive ing is ven as ows :
fi d 123 j d / d 123 exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j ( cid : 123 ) 123
ese rms ess the isy - or del as a zed ear del .
if we now orm the int ity ion by ing cts of the cal oba - ies p .
fi j d / as in eq .
( 123 ) , we see hat ive ngs are ign ith ect to the nce lem .
in lar , a uct of ial ors hat are ear in the ses ( cf .
( 123 ) ) lds a int ity hat is lso the ial of an ion ear in the ses .
hat is , ach ive ing can be ted nto the int ity in a ear ber of ons .
cts of the ies of ive ngs , on the her and , eld oss cts rms hat are tic for act nce .
ese oss uct rms ple the ses ( hey are ble for the ing way ena hat ise for the isy - or el; see arl , 123 ) .
ely , ese ing rms can ead to an ial wth in ial ity .
ing a set of ard tic ses ( the cpc es; see hwe et al . , 123 ) , ola and dan ( 23b ) und hat the ian ize of the mal que of the zed qmr - dt aph is 123 des .
hus ven out ing the ion tep , we see hat tic ion der the qmr - dt del is lly ble . 123
ion to nal ods
ure 123
the red cal ure of a ral ork .
the put des and put des ise the set of nce des .
ral rks as cal els
ral rks are red phs wed ith a ear ion ion at ach ode ( see ure 123 ) .
let us der ion ons hat are ded een ero and one , uch as ose ned rom the tic ion f . z / d 23= . 123 c e z / .
we can eat uch a ral ork as a cal del by ing a ary ble si ith ach ode and ing the ion of the ode as the ity hat the ted ary ble kes one of its two ues .
for ple , ing the tic ion , we ite :
si d 123
123 c exp
23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere ( cid : 123 ) i j are the ers ted ith ges een ent des j and ode i , and ( cid : 123 ) 123 is the ias ter ted ith ode i .
his is the oid ief ork ced by eal ( 123 ) .
the ges of ing a ral ork in his ner ude the ity to orm tic ons , to dle ing ata , and to eat sed ing on the ame ing as sed ing .
ing ese ets , ver , res hat the nce lem be ved in an ent way .
in act , it is asy to see hat act nce is ble in ral red ral ork els .
a ode in a ral ork lly has as nts all of the des in the ing yer .
hus the zed ral ork aph has nks een all of the des in his yer ( see ure 123 ) .
hat ese nks are ary for act nce in ral is rin lar , ing ing of a ral ork the put des are nce des , hus the den its in the ate yer ome lly ent , as do eir ors in the ing den ers .
hus if ere are n den its in a lar den yer , the ime ity of nce is at ast o . 23n / , ing the nal wth in que ize due to ion .
ven hat ral rks ith ens or ven eds of den its are ace , we see hat ing a ral ork ing act nce is not lly ble .
dan et al .
ure 123
ion of a ral ork .
the put des are nce des ing ing .
his tes tic ies een the den des ich are red by the ges ded by the ion .
ure 123
a ann ine .
an dge een des si and s j is ted ith a tor exp . ( cid : 123 ) i j si s j / hat tes ely to the ial of one of the ues ing the dge .
ach ode lso tes a tor exp . ( cid : 123 ) 123 si / to one and nly one ial .
ann nes
a ann ine is an ted cal del ith ary - ued des and a ted set of ial ons ( see ure 123 ) .
in lar , the que als are med by ing cts of ann als of rms hat are at ost tic in the si ( ton & ski , 123 ) .
hus ach que ial is a uct of ors xpf ( cid : 123 ) i j si s jg and ors xpf ( cid : 123 ) sig , ere si 123 23; 23g . 123 a ven air of des si and s j can ear in ple , ing ues .
for ach uch air we ume hat the ion xpf ( cid : 123 ) i j si s jg ars as a tor in one and nly one que ial .
rly , the ors xpf ( cid : 123 ) sig are med to ear in one and nly one que ial .
ing the uct ver all uch que als ( cf .
( 123 ) ) , we
p . s / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
ion to nal ods
ere we ave set ( cid : 123 ) i j d 123 for des si and s j hat are not ors in the his ion ows us to sum ely ver all irs si and s j and ill ect the que ies .
we fer to the ive of the ent in eq .
( 123 ) as the rgy .
ith his ion the int ity in eq .
( 123 ) has the ral orm of a ann
aul and dan ( 123 ) ted out hat act nce for ain ial ses of ann uch as ees , ins , and irs of led sis ble and hey sed a ion thm for his ose .
for ore ral ann nes , ver , ion is not une to the ial ime ity hat ues her act ods .
eed , ite the act hat the ann ine is a ial ass of ted cal del , it is a ial ass nly by tue of its ram - ion , not by tue of its nal nce ure .
hus , act hms uch as ion and the ion ree thm , ich are sed ely on the cal ure of the ann ine , are no ore ent for ann nes han hey are for ral cal els .
in lar , hen we ate ric ann nes , ing the red ann nes and rid - ike ann nes , we ain bly rge ues .
ing hms ave lly een sed to mpt to ope ith the bil - ity of the ann ine ( ton & ski , 123 ) .
the ing hms are rly low , ver , and ore ent ork has red the ter ean eld ap - ion ( son & son , 123 ) .
we ill ibe the ean eld ion for ann nes ter in the rit is a ial orm of the nal ap - ion ach hat des wer nds on nal ies .
we ill lso uss a ore ral nal thm hat des per and wer nds on ies ( als and als ) for ann nes ( ola & dan ,
den kov els
in his ion , we iey iew den kov els .
the den kov del ( hmm ) is an ple of a cal del in ich act nce is le; our ose in ing mms ere is to lay the ork for the ion of ble ons on mms in the ing ons .
see yth , man , and dan ( 123 ) for a ler ion of the hmm as a cal del .
an hmm is a cal del in the orm of a ain ( see ure 123 ) .
der a nce of ial ate des xi and ume hat the nal ity of ode xi , ven its ate sor 123 , is ent of all her ing les .
( the dex i can be ght of as a ime dex ) .
the ain is med to be us; hat is , the rix of ion ies , a d p . xi j 123 / , is ant oss ime .
we lso ire a ity ion d p . 123 / for the ial ate 123
the hmm del lso ves a set of put des yi and an ion ity law b d p . yi j xi / , ain med ime - ant .
dan et al .
ure 123
a hmm ted as a cal del .
the eft - to - ght ial ion nts ime .
the put des yi are nce des ing the ing ess and the ate des xi are den .
an hmm is ned by ing the put des as nce des and the ate des as den des .
an ion - ion ( em ) thm ( aum et al . , 23; ter , ird , & bin , 123 ) is lly sed to ate the ers a; b; ; his thm ves a ple ive ure ing two ing eps : ( 123 ) run an nce thm to ate the nal ies p . xi yig / and p . xi ; 123 yig / ; ( 123 ) ate the ers via ted mum ood ere the hts are ven by the nal ies ted in tep ( 123 ) .
it is asy to see hat act nce is ble for mms .
the ion and ian - ion eps are ous for the mm; hus the ime ity can be ead off rom ure 123 tly .
we see hat the mal que is of ize n 123 , ere n is the ity of a ate ode .
nce ore les as o . n 23t / , ere t is the gth of the ime
ial den kov els
in any lem ins it is ral to ake nal ral ons out the ate ace and the ion ies hat are not ble hin the ple hmm ork .
a ber of red ons on mms ave een red in ent ars ( see yth et al . , 123 ) ; lly ese ons can be wed as mic ief rks ( ean & awa , 23; awa , ler , & ell , 123 ) .
ere we der a rly ple ion on the hmm eme own as the ial den kov del ( ani & dan , 23; ams & ton , 123 ) .
the cal del for a ial hmm ( hmm ) is own in ure 123
the tem is sed of a set of m ins xed by m .
let the ate ode for the mth ain at ime i be ted by x . m / and let the ion rix for the mth ain be rep - ted by a . m / .
we can iew the ive ate ace for the hmm as the ian uct of the ate ces ted ith the ual ins .
the all ion ity for the tem is ned by ing the uct oss the tra - ain ion
ion to nal ods
ure 123
a ial hmm ith ree ins .
the ion ces are a . 123 / , a . 123 / , and a . 123 / ted ith the tal ges , and the put ies are ned by ces b . 123 / , b . 123 / , and b . 123 / ted ith the cal ges .
p . xi j 123 / d my
ere the bol xi nds for the m - ple . x . 123 /
; x . 123 /
; : : : ; x . m /
ani and dan zed a ear - ian ion for the ion oba -
ies of the hmm .
in lar , hey med :
p . yi j xi / d n
b . m / x . m /
ere the b . m / and 123 are ces of ers .
the hmm is a ral del for ems in ich the den ate is zed via the int ion of an led set of cal ems .
ver , an hmm is ble to ent a rge ive ate ace ith a uch ler ber of ers han a gle red ian uct hmm .
for ple , if we ave 123 ins and in ach ain the des ave 123 tes , the ive ate ace is of ize 123 , 123 , ile the ion ies are ted tly ith nly 123 ers .
a gle red hmm uld ire 123 ers for the ion rix in his ase .
the act hat the put is a ion of the tes of all of the ins ies hat the tes ome lly led hen the uts are ved .
let us ate the ons of his act for the ime ity of act nce in the hmm .
ure 123 ows a ion for the ase of two ins ( in act his is an mal ion ) .
dan et al .
ure 123
a ion of an hmm ith two ent ins .
the ion tep nks tes at a gle ime tep .
the ion tep nks tes lly een ing ime eps .
ure 123
a ion of the ate des of a ree - ain hmm ith ree ent ins .
( the ser - ion des ave een ted in the est of ity . )
ure 123
his aph is not a ion of a ree - ain hmm .
the ues for the den tes are of ize n 23; hus the ime ity of act nce is o . n 23t / , ere n is the ber of tes in ach ain ( we ume hat ach ain has the ame ber of tes for ity ) .
ure 123 ows the ase of a ion of ree ns; ere the ion ( ain mal ) tes ues of ize n 123
( ote in lar hat the aph in ure 123 , ith ues of ize ree , is not a on; ere
ion to nal ods
are 123 - les out a ord ) .
in the ral ase , it is not ult to see hat ues of ize n 123 are ted , ere m is the ber of ns; hus the ity of act nce for the hmm les as o . n 23t / .
for a gle red ian uct hmm ing the ame ber of tes as the mmi . e . , n m the ity les as o . n 23m t / , hus act nce for the hmm is hat ess tly , but the ial wth in ity in her ase ows hat act nce is ble for
her - der den kov els
a ted ion on mms ers a her - der kov del in ich ach ate nds on the ous k tes ead of the gle ous ate .
in his ase it is ain ily own hat the ime ity is ial in k .
we ill not uss the her - der hmm her in his er; for a nal thm for the her - der hmm see aul and dan ( 123 ) .
den kov ion ees
lly , we der a del in ich a ion ree is wed ith ian ics ( dan , ani , & aul , 123 ) .
a ion ree can be wed as a cal del by ing the ons in the ree as ial dom les , one for ach vel of the ion ree .
ing to ure 123 , and ing on a lar ime ice , the ded ode at the top of the ram nts the put tor .
the ded des low the put des are the ion des .
ach of the ion des are ned on the put
ure 123
a den kov ion ree .
the ded des uig and yig ent a ime ies in ich ach ent is an ( put , put ) air .
ing the uts and uts are a nce of ion des ich ond to hes in a ion ree .
ese ons are ked lly to ent ian ral
dan et al .
and on the ire nce of ing ons ( the cal ows in the ram ) .
in rms of a nal ion ree ram , his nce des an ion of the ath wed by the ata int as it ops ugh the ion ree .
the ode at the tom of the ram is the put ble .
if we now ake the ons in the ion ree nal not nly on the ent ata int , but lso on the ons at the ous ent in ime , we ain a den kov ion ree ( mdt ) .
in ure 123 , the tal ges ent his ian ral nce .
ote in lar hat the ncy is med to be vel - the ity of a ion nds nly on the ous ion at the ame vel of the
ven a nce of put ors ui and a ing nce of put ors yi , the nce lem is to ute the nal ity ion ver the den tes .
his lem is ble for ral sas can be een by ing hat the mdt des the hmm as a ial ase .
ics of nal ogy
nal ods are sed as ion ods in a ide ety of ngs , lud - ing ite ent sis ( the , 123 ) , tum ics ( rai , 123 ) , cal ics ( isi , 123 ) , and ics ( agi , 123 ) .
in ach of ese ses the ica - ion of nal ods rts a lex lem nto a ler lem , ere the ler lem is lly zed by a ing of the ees of dom in the nal lem .
his ing is ved via an ion of the lem to ude nal ers , own as nal ers , hat ust be t to the lem at
the ogy mes rom the ots of the ues in the lus of ons .
we ill not art lly rom the lus of ns; ead , we ill ump off rom an ate int hat zes the ant ole of ity in nal ion .
his int of iew rns out to be rly ell ted to the ent of nal ods for cal els .
let us gin by ing a ple ple .
in lar , let us ess the thm
ln . x / d min
fx ln 23g :
in his ion is the nal ter , and we are red to orm the min - ion for ach lue of x .
the ion is ily ied by ing the ive ith ect to , ing and ing .
the ion is aps est ted geo - lly , as we how in ure 123
ote hat the ion in ces in eq .
( 123 ) is ear in x ith ope .
rly , ven the ity of the thm , for ach ine ing ope
ion to nal ods
ure 123
nal ion of the thm ion .
the ear ons . x ln 123 / orm a ily of per nds for the thm , ach of ich is act for a lar lue of x .
ere is a lue of the ept uch hat the ine hes the thm at a gle int .
eed , ln 123 in eq .
( 123 ) is ely his ept .
ver , if we nge oss , the ily of uch nes rms an per ope of the thm ion .
hat is , for any ven x , we ave :
ln . x / x ln 23;
for all .
hus the nal ion des a ily of per nds on the thm .
the mum ver ese nds is the act lue of the thm .
the tic ion for uch a ion is hat we ave ted a ear ion nto a ear ion .
the ost is hat we ave ned a ree ter hat ust be set , nce for ach x .
for any lue of we ain an per und on the hm; if we set ell we can ain a ood und .
eed we can ver the act lue of thm for the mal ice of .
let us now der a ond ple hat is ore tly ant to cal els .
for ary - ued des it is mon to ent the ity hat the ode kes one of its ues via a nic ity hat is a ple one . g . , a ear nof the ues of the nts of the ode .
an ple is the tic ion del :
f . x / d
123 c ex
ich we ave een sly in eq .
ere x is the ted sum of the ues of the nts of a ode .
dan et al .
the tic ion is her vex nor ave , so a ple ear und ill not
ver , the tic ion is log ave .
hat is , the ion
g . x / d ln . 123 c e
is a ave ion of x ( as can ily be ied by ing the ond ive ) .
hus we can und the log tic ion ith ear ons and eby und the tic ion by the ial .
in lar , we can ite :
g . x / d min
fx h . / g;
ere h . / is the ary opy ion , h . / d ln . 123 / ln . 123 / .
( we ill ain how the ary opy ion ses ow; for now it ces to ink of it ply as the ate ept erm for the log tic ion ) .
we now ake the ial of oth des , ing hat the mum and the ial ion ute :
f . x / d min
his is a nal ion for the tic on; les are ted in g - ure 123
lly , we ote nce ain hat for any lue of we ain an per und of the tic ion for all ues of x :
f . x / exh . / :
ood ces for ide ter nds .
ure 123
nal ion of the tic ion .
ion to nal ods
the ges of the ion in eq .
( 123 ) are ant in the ext of cal els .
in lar , to ain the int ity in a cal del we are red to ake a uct ver the cal nal ies ( cf .
for nal ies ted ith tic ion , we ain cts of ons of the orm f . x / d 23= . 3ce x / .
uch a uct is not in a ple orm .
if ead we ent our ork ion by ing nal rsi . e .
ing ach tic ion lly as in eq .
( 123 ) we see hat a und on the int ity is ned by ing cts of als .
his is ble lly , rly so ven hat the nts are ear in x .
vex ity
can we nd nal ons ore lly ? eed , any of the ari - nal ons hat ave een zed in the ure on cal els are les of the ral ple of vex ity .
it is a ral act of vex sis ( lar , 123 ) hat a ave ion f . x / can be ted via a ate or ual ion as ows : f . x / d min
ft x f
. / can be ned
ere we now low x and to be ors .
the ate ion f rom the ing ual ion : ft x f . x / g :
. / d min
his hip is ily ood lly , as own in ure 123
ere we lot f . x / and the ear ion x for a lar lue of .
the ort cal nts
ure 123
the ate ion f een x and f . x / .
. / is ned by ing oss the ted as hed
dan et al .
ent ues x f . x / .
it is ear rom the ure hat we eed to ift the ear ion x lly by an unt ich is the mum of the ues x f . x / in der to ain an per ing ine ith ope hat hes f . x / at a gle int .
his ion oth ies the orm of the ate ion , as a mum ver ces x f . x / , and ins why the ate ion ars as the ept in eq .
ln c 123 , and the ate ion for the log tic ion is the ary opy h . / .
ugh we ave sed on per nds in his ion , the ork of vex
it is an asy ise to ify hat the ate ion for the thm is f
ity ies lly ell to wer ds; in lar for vex f . x / we ave :
f . x / d max
ft x f
. / d max
ft x f . x / g
is the ate ion .
we ave sed on ear nds in his ion , but vex ity is not ted to ear nds .
ore ral nds can be ned by ing the ent of the ion of est her han the lue of the ion ( ola & dan , 23a ) .
for ple , if f . x / is ave in x 123 we can ite :
fx 123 nf
f . x / d min . / is the ate ion of nf . x / f . x 123 / .
hus the ion lds a tic und on f . x / .
it is lso rth ing hat uch ons can be ned ith the mic ion zed ier to ain ian ons for the per nds .
his can be ful in ing nal ons for ior ons ( ola & dan , 23b ) .
to ize , the ral ogy ted by vex ity is the ing .
we ish to ain per or wer nds on a ion of est .
if the ion is ady vex or ave hen we ply ate the ate ion .
if the ion is not vex or ave , hen we ook for an ble ion hat ers the ion vex or ave .
we may lso der ons of the ent of the ion .
we hen ate the ate ion in the med ace and orm ack .
for his ach to be ful we eed to nd a orm , uch as the thm , ose rse has ful aic ies .
ons for int ies and nal ies
the ion hus far has sed on ons for the cal ity ons at the des of a cal del .
how do ese ons ate nto ima - ons for the bal ies of est , in lar for the nal ion
ion to nal ods
p . h j e / hat is our est in the nce lem and the nal ity p . e / hat is our est in ing ems ? let us cus on ted phs for ess .
ose hat we ave a wer und and an per und for ach of the cal nal ies p . si j s . i / / .
hat is , ume hat we ave rms pu . si j s . i / ; u / and p l . si j s . i / ; l / , ing per and wer nds , ely , ere u i and l i are ( lly ent ) nal ara - ons ate for the per and wer nds .
der rst the per nds .
ven hat the uct of per nds is an per und , we ave :
s . i / ; u
his ity lds for ary ngs of ues of the nal ers u ver , eq .
( 123 ) ust old for any set of s ver ome her set is eld ed; his ies hat per nds on nal ies can be ned by ing ums ver the nal orm on the ght - and ide of the ion .
for ple , ing e and h be a int ion of s , we ave :
p . e / d
p . h; e /
s . i / ; u
ere , as we ill see in the les to be sed low , we ose the nal rms pu . si j s . i / ; u / so hat the ion ver h can be ied out tly ( his is the key tep in ing a nal hod ) .
in her eq .
( 123 ) or eq .
( 123 ) , ven hat ese per nds old for any ngs of ues the nal ers u i , hey old in lar for ing ngs of the ers .
hat is , we can eat the ght - and ide of eq .
( 123 ) or the ght - and ide of eq .
( 123 ) as a ion to be zed ith ect to u i .
in the ter ase , his ion ess ill uce ies een the ers u i .
ese ies are le; eed hey are cal for ing a ood nal und on the nal ity of est .
in lar , the est bal nds are ned hen the tic ies in the ion are ted in ies in the ion .
to ify the ure of nal nds , ote hat ere is an ant ion to be ade een int ies ( eq .
( 123 ) ) and nal ies ( eq .
( 123 ) , if we low the nal ers to be set lly for ach lue of the ent s , hen it is ble ( in ple ) to nd ing ngs of the nal ers hat ver the act lue of the int ity .
( ere we ume hat the cal ies p . si j s . i / / can be ted tly via a nal ion , as in the les sed in ion 123 ) .
( 123 ) , on the her and , we are not lly ble to ver act ues of the nal by ing ver nal ers hat end nly on the ent e .
der , for ple , the ase of a ode si 123 e hat has nts in h .
dan et al .
as we nge oss fhg ere ill be nds on the ght - and ide of eq .
( 123 ) hat ill lve ing the cal ity p . si j s . i / / for ent ues of the nts s . i / .
if the nal ter u i nds nly on e , we not in ral ect to ain an act ion for p . si j s . i / / in ach and .
hus , ome of the nds in eq .
( 123 ) are ily nds and not act ues .
his ion des a bit of ght nto ons why a nal und ght be ted to be ght in ome ces and ose in ers .
in lar , if p . si j s . i / / is rly ant as we nge oss s . i / , or if we are ing at a int ere the nal ion is rly ive to the ing of u ( for ple the ght - and ide of the thm in ure 123 ) , hen the nds may be ted to be ght .
on the her and , if ese ons are not ent one ght ect hat the und uld be ose .
ver the ion is ted by the ies een the u are ced ing the ion ess .
we ill urn to ese ues in the ion .
ugh we ave sed per nds , lar nts ply to wer nds , and to nal ies ned rom wer nds on the int ion .
the nal ion p . h j e / , on the her and , is the tio of two nal ns; i . e . , p . h j e / d p . h; e / =p . e / . 123 to ain per and wer nds on the nal ion , we ust ave per and wer nds on oth the tor and the tor .
lly ing , ver , if we can ain per and wer nds on the tor , hen our bor is lly hed , use the tor ves wer ums .
eed , in the ase in ich s d h ( e , the tor ves no ums and is ply a ion ion .
lly , it is rth ing hat nal ods can lso be of est ply as ble ons her han as ods hat ide ict nds ( uch as sam - ing ods are sed ) .
one way to do his is to ain a nal ion hat is a und for a nal ity , and to ute the nal ers hus ned nto the nal ity ion .
hus , for ple , we ght ain a wer und on the ood p . e / by ing nal ers .
we can sti - ute ese ers nto the zed nal orm for p . h; e / and hen ize his nal orm as an ent nce ine in ing an ion to p . h j e / .
in the ing ons we ill ate the ral nal ork as it has een ied in a ber of ked - out les .
all of ese les lve tec - res of cal est and ide ete les of nal ogy .
to a ain ree the les lso rve as ase ies hat can be zed to ted res .
it is ant to ize , ver , hat it is not ily for - ard to lop a nal ion for a new ure .
the ase and the ity of ing the ods ned in his ion end on ral ils , ing the ice of ode ity ons , the aph ogy and the lar ter ime in ich the del is ted .
in lar , ain ces of ode nal ity ons end ves ore ily han ers to nal rma - ons hat ave ful aic ies .
lso , ain res ify ore ily der nal ion han rs; in lar , the nal nds in eq .
( 123 ) are ple ons in ome ses and lex in ers .
ese ues are tly not
ion to nal ods
ell ood and the ent of ive nal ons can in ome ses ire ial ity .
ial and ock ods
let us now der in hat ore ail how nal ods can be ied to tic nce ems .
the sic dea is hat ted ewe ish to ify the int ity ion by ing the cal ity ons .
by an ate ice of nal ion , we can ify the orm of the int ity ion and eby ify the nce lem .
we can orm ome or all of the des .
the ost of ing uch ons is hat we ain nds or ons to the ies her han act lts .
the ion of ing nly ome of the des is nt; it ies a ole for the act ods as nes hin a nal ion .
in lar , ial ons of the aph may ave ome of the nal cal ure act and / or uce new cal ure to ich act ods can be lly ied .
in ral , we ish to use nal ons in a ted way , ing the aph nto a ied aph to ich act ods can be ied .
his ill in ral eld ter nds han an thm hat rms the ire aph out ard for lly ble ure .
the ity of nal hms sed in the ure to ate can be ded nto two ain ses : ial and ock .
in the ial ach , des are med in an der hat is ned ing the nce ess .
his ach has the age of ity and ity , ing the lar ern of nce to ine the est ces of des to orm .
in ome ses , ver , rly hen ere are ous res in a aph ich are ble to act ods , it can be ous to ate in nce the des to be med .
we ill see hat his ock ach is rly ral in the ing of ter ion .
the ial ach
the ial ach ces nal ons for the des in a icu - lar der .
the oal is to orm the ork til the ing med ork is ble to act ods .
as we ill see in the les low , ain nal ans - ons can be ood lly as a ion in ich des are ved rom the aph .
if a ent ber of nal ons are ced the ing aph mes tly rse uch hat an act hod mes ble .
an nal ion of ess can be ned by ing a edy ion his per nds the run ime of the ion ree nce thm .
ere are lly two ays to ent the ial one can gin ith the med aph and uce nal ons one ode at a ime , or one can gin ith a ely med aph and uce act nal ies one ode at a ime .
an age of the ter ach is hat the aph ins ble at all es; hus it is ble to tly ate the ive ect
dan et al .
of ing or ing a ven ode .
in the mer ach the aph is ble out the rch , and the nly way to ing a ion is via its ive ect on cal ess .
the ial ach is aps est ted in the ext of a cic ple .
in the ing ion we urn to the qmr - dt ork and how how a ial nal ach can be sed for nce in his ork .
the qmr - dt ork
ola and dan ( 23b ) ent an ion of ial nal ods to the qmr - dt ork .
as we ave een , the qmr - dt ork is a ite aph in ich the nal ies for the ngs are sed on the isy - or del ( eq .
( 123 ) for the ive ngs and eq .
( 123 ) for the ive ngs ) .
ote hat tom des hat are not gsi . e . , oms hat are not can ply be zed out of the int ion by ion and ore hey ave no act on nce .
ver , as we ave sed , the ive ngs ent no ies for ven the ial orm of the ity in eq .
( 123 ) , the cts of ive ngs on the ase ies can be led in ear ime .
let us ore ume hat the tes ted ith the ive ngs ave ady een ade and cus on the lem of ing nce hen ere are ive ngs .
ing eq .
( 123 ) for nce , we ave the ing ion for the oba -
ity of a ive ing :
fi d 123 j d / d 123 exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j ( cid : 123 ) 123
the ion 123 e x is log ve; hus , as in the ase of the tic ion , we are ble to ess the nal per und in rms of the ial of a ear ion .
x ex f
ere the ate ion is as ows : . / d ln c .
c 123 / ln
ing the ent of eq .
( 123 ) nto eq .
( 123 ) , and ing hat we eed a ent ria - nal ter i for ach med ode , we ain :
fi d 123 j d / exp
( cid : 123 ) i j d j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
( ei ( cid : 123 ) i j ) d j :
d ei ( cid : 123 ) 123 f
ion to nal ods
ure 123
the qmr - dt aph ter the tly ded ing has een ted to a nal ion .
the ect is ent to ing the ode rom the aph .
the nal ion ays the ect of the nal ion .
the ial tor ide of the uct is ply a ant .
the uct is ken ver all des in the ent set for ode i , but ike the ase in ich the aph is zed for act ion , the ons ted ith the d j des are led .
hat is , ach tor exp . i ( cid : 123 ) i j / is ply a ant hat can be ied nto the ity hat was sly ted ith ode d j ( for d j d 123 ) .
ere is no ing of d j and dk des as ere uld be if we had ken cts of the med isy - or .
hus the cal ect of the nal ion is as own in ure 23; the nal ion nks the ith ing rom the aph .
in our lar ple , the aph is now red gly ted and an act nce thm can be ked .
( all hat ing ver the ved oms ply ves hem rom the aph ) .
the ial ogy zed by ola and dan ins ith a ely med aph and hen tes act nal ies at ted des .
to ose the ing in ich to ate des , ola and dan ake use of a tic , ing the ice on the ect on the ood und of ing ach ode lly ing rom the ely med ate .
ite the ity of his tic , hey und hat it ded an ion hat was ers of ude ore ate han hat of an thm hat sed a dom ing .
ven the ing the thm hen eds as ows : ( 123 ) ose the ext ode in the ing , and der the ect of ing the nks ted ith the ode nto the ent aph .
( 123 ) if the ing aph is ill ble to act ods , ate the ode and ate .
ise top and run an act hod .
lly , ( 123 ) we ust lso ose the ers i so as to ake the ion as ght as ble .
it is not ult to ify hat cts of the ion in eq .
( 123 ) eld an all und hat is a vex ion of the i ers ( ola & dan , 23b ) .
hus ard ion hms can be sed to nd ood ces for the i .
ure 123 ows lts rom ola and dan ( 23b ) for ate nce on our of the cpc ses hat ere ned ier .
for ese our ses ere ere a tly all ber of ive ngs hat an act thm uld be run to ide a old ard for son .
the ost ure ows per and wer nds
dan et al .
( a ) act ues and nal per and wer nds on the log - ood for the our ble cpc ses .
( b ) the ean ion een the ate and act ior als as a ion of the ion ime ( nds ) .
lid ine : nal es; hed ine : ood - ing ing .
the nes ove and low the ing ult ent ard ors of the ean sed on the ten ent uns of
on the log - ood for ese ses .
ola and dan lso ted ate ior als for the ses .
the ons of ese als ith the old ard are own in the ost ure .
his ure ots acy nst run ime , for uns in ich 123 , 123 , and 123 ive ngs ere ted tly .
ote hat ate ues ere ned in ess han a ond .
the ure lso ows lts rom a ate - of - the - art ing thm ( the ood - ted ler of hwe and per , 123 ) .
the ler red tly ore ter ime han the nal hod to ain hly ble acy .
ola and dan ( 23b ) lso ted lts for the ire pus of cpc ses .
hey ain und hat the nal hod ded bly ate tes of the ior ies of the ses ( ing thy uns of the ler as a sis for son ) hin ess han a ond of ter ime .
the ann ine
let us now der a her ent ple .
as we ave sed , the ann ine is a ial set of the ass of ted cal els in ich the ial ons are sed of cts of tic and ear ann ors .
ola and dan ( 23a ) ced a ial nal thm for ate nce in the ann ine .
eir hod , ich we uss in his ion , lds oth per and wer nds on nal and nal ies of est .
all the orm of the int ity ion for the ann ine :
p . s / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
to ain nal ies uch as p . e / der his int ion , we ust ate ums ver als of tic rgy ons .
ver , to ain nal
ion to nal ods
ies uch as p . h j e / d p . h; e / =p . e / , we ake ios of uch ums , ere the tor res wer ums han the tor .
the ost ral uch sum is the ion ion elf , ich is a sum ver all ons fsg .
let us ore cus on per and wer nds for the ion ion as the ral se; his ows us to ate nds on any her als or als of est .
our ach is to orm the ums one sum at a ime , ing nal ans - ons to ure hat the ing ion ays lly ble .
in act , at ery tep of the ess hat we ibe , the med als lve no ore han tic ann ors .
( act ods can be wed as ing gly her - der rms hen the ing ums are med ) .
hus the med ann ine ins a ann ine .
let us rst der wer nds .
we ite the ion ion as ows :
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j
and mpt to nd a ble wer und on the ner and ver si on the ght - and ide .
it is not ult to how hat his ion is log vex .
hus we und its thm
f j 3di
f j 3di
f j 3di
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j c ln
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j c ln
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j c l
( cid : 123 ) 23s j
123 c exp
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j c ( cid : 123 ) 3si
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere the sum in the rst erm on the ght - and ide is a sum ver all irs j < k uch hat her j nor k is ual to i , ere h . / is as ore the ary opy ion , and ere is the nal ter ted ith ode si .
in the rst ine we ave ply led ide of the sum all of ose rms not ing si , and in the ond ine we ave med the sum ver the two ues of si .
lly , to wer und the ion in eq .
( 123 ) we eed nly wer und the erm ln . 23c ex / on the ght - and ide .
but we ave ady und nal nds for a ted ion in ing the tic on; all eq .
the per und in hat ase tes nto the wer und in the ent
dan et al .
ure 123
the ion of the ann ine der the ate ion ver ode si for the ase of wer nds .
( a ) the ann ine ore the ion .
( b ) the ann ine ter the ion , ere si has ome ked .
all of the ise ers , ( cid : 123 ) jk , for j and k not ual to i , ave ned red .
as ted by the avy nes , the ear nts ave ged for ose des hat ere ors of si .
ln . 123 c e
x / x c h . / :
his is the und hat we ave zed in eq
let us der the cal ces of the und in eq .
( 123 ) ( see ure 123 ) .
ote hat for all des in the aph her han ode si and its ors , the ann ors are red ( see the rst two rms in the und ) .
hus the aph is red for uch des .
rom the erm in ses we see hat the ors of ode si ave een wed ith new ear ms; tly , ver , ese des ave not ome ked ( as hey uld ave ome if we had one the act ion ) .
ors hat ere ked sly ain ked ith the ame ( cid : 123 ) jk ter .
ode si is ent rom the med ion ion and hus ent rom the aph , but it has eft its ace via the new ear ann ors ted ith its ors .
we can ize the cts of the ion by ing hat the med aph is a new ann ine ith one wer ode and the ing ers :
q ( cid : 123 ) jk d ( cid : 123 ) jk q ( cid : 123 ) 123 d ( cid : 123 ) 123 c l
j; k 23d i j 23d i :
( cid : 123 ) 123 c h . l
ote lly hat we lso ave a ant erm l / to eep ack of .
his erm ill ave an ing ion hen we urn to the ann ine ter in the ext of ock ods .
per nds are ned in a lar way .
we ain eak the ion ion nto a sum ver a lar ode si and a sum ver the ons of the ing des nsi .
ver , the rst ree nes of the ing ion ing to eq .
( 123 ) are cal
ion to nal ods
ete the ion we now nd an per und on ln . 123 c ex / .
ola and dan ( 23a ) sed ing tic nds for his ose .
in lar , hey ted hat :
ln . 123 c ex / d ln . 123 c e
123 / c x
and hat ln . 123 c e 123 / is a ave ion of x 123 ( as can be ied by ing the ond ive ith ect to x 123 ) .
his ies hat ln . 123 c ex / ust ave a tic per und of the ing orm : ln . 123 c ex / x 123 c x . / is an ely ned ate ion .
ing ese per nds in
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j
( 123 ) we ain :
( cid : 123 ) jk s j sk c
( cid : 123 ) 23s j
! 123 c 123
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
f j 3di
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
is the nal ter ted ith ode si .
the cal ces of his ion are hat ent han ose of the wer nds ( see ure 123 ) .
ing the rst two rms in the und , we see hat
ure 123
the ion of the ann ine der the ate ion ver ode si for the ase of per nds .
( a ) the ann ine ore the ion .
( b ) the ann ine ter the ion , ere si has ome ked .
as the hed ges est , all of the ors of si ave ome ked and ose hat ere rly ked ave new ter ues .
as ted by the avy nes , the ors of si lso ave new ear nts .
all her ges and ers are red .
q ( cid : 123 ) jk d ( cid : 123 ) jk c 23u q ( cid : 123 ) 123 d ( cid : 123 ) 123 c ( cid : 123 ) i j
( cid : 123 ) ji ( cid : 123 ) ik
( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) i j c u
j; k 23d i j 23d i :
dan et al .
it is ill the ase hat the aph is red for all des in the aph her han ode si and its ors , and ver ors of si hat ere sly ked ain ked .
the tic erm , ver , ves ise to new nks een the sly ked ors of ode si and ers the ers een sly ked ors .
ach of ese des lso res a new ear erm .
ing eq .
( 123 ) and ing rms , we see hat the ate ion has ded a ann ine ith the ing
lly , the ant erm is ven by ( cid : 123 ) 123 c u the cal ces of the wer and per und ons lso ave com - nal ces .
in lar , ven hat the wer und ion ces no nal nks hen des are ked , it is hat ore ral to ine ese ons ith act ods .
in lar , the thm ply nks des til a ble ure ( uch as a ree ) is ed; at his int an act thm is led as a ine .
the per und ion , on the her and , by ing nks een the ors of a ked ode , oes not eal ble ure as ily .
his ing age is ted by the act hat the per und is a ter und ( ola & dan , 23a ) .
the ock ach
an ive ach to nal nce is to ate in nce a set of des hat are to be med .
we can in ple iew his ock ach as an off - ine ion of the ial ach .
in the ase of wer nds , ver , ere are ad - ges to be ned by ing a ogy hat is cic to ock ion .
in his ion , we how hat a ral bal ure of ion acy can be ned for wer nds via a ock ion of the nal ism .
the hod hes ily ith act ods in ses in ich ble ure can be nti - ed in the aph .
his ach was rst ted by aul and dan ( 123 ) , as a ned ion of ean eld ory for kov dom lds , and has een ped her in a ber of ent ies ( e . g . , ani & dan , 23; ani & ton , 23; dan et al . , 123 ) .
in the ock ach , we gin by ing a ure in the aph of est hat we now is ble to act nce ods ( or , ore lly , to ent ate nce ods ) .
for ple , we ght ick out a ree or a set of ins in the nal aph .
we ish to use his ied ure to ate the ity ion on the nal aph .
to do so , we der a ily of ity ons hat are ned rom the ied aph via the ion of nal ers .
we ose a lar ing ion rom the ing ily by ing a lar ice for the nal ers .
as in the ial ach a new ice of nal ers ust be ade ach ime new nce is ble .
ion to nal ods
ore lly , let p . s / ent the int ion on the cal del of est , ere as ore s nts all of the des of the aph and h and e are int ets of s ing the den des and the nce des , ely .
we ish to ate the nal ity p . h j e / .
we uce an ing ily of nal ity ons , q . h j e ; / , ere are nal ers .
the aph ing q is not lly the ame as the aph ing p; lly it is a sub - aph .
rom the ily of ing ons q , we ose a lar ion by ing the ack - ler ( kl ) nce , d . q k p / , ith ect to the nal ers :
d arg min d . q . h j e ; / k p . h j e / / ;
d . q k p / d
ere for any ity ons q . s / and p . s / the kl nce is ned as
the ing ues of the nal ers , , ene a lar ibu - ion , q . h j e ; / , hat we eat as the est ion of p . h j e / in the ily q . h j e ; / .
one ple ion for ing the kl nce as a ure of ion acy is hat it lds the est wer und on the ity of the nce p . e / ( i . e . , the ood ) in the ily of ons q . h j e ; / .
eed , we und the thm of p . e / ing ens ity as ows :
p . h; e /
ln p . e / d ln
q . h j e / p . h; e / q . h j e / p . h; e / q . h j e /
q . h j e / ln
the nce een the eft and ght and des of his ion is ily een to be the kl nce d . q k p / .
hus , by the ity of the kl nce ( ver & mas , 123 ) , the ght - and ide of eq .
( 123 ) is a wer und on p . e / .
ver , by ing ing to eq .
( 123 ) , we ain the est wer und .
vex ity and the kl nce
we can lso ify the ice of kl nce by ing an eal to vex ity ory , eby ing the ock ach ith the ial ach ( ola , 123 ) .
der , for ity , the ase of ete - ued des h .
the ion q . h j e ; /
dan et al .
can be wed as a tor of eal ers , one for ach ion of the les h .
eat his tor as the tor - ued nal ter in eq .
ver , the log ity ln p . h; e / can lso be wed as a tor of eal ers , ned on the set of ons of h .
eat his tor as the ble x in eq .
lly , ene f . x / to be ln p . e / .
it can be ied hat the ing ion for ln p . e / :
ln p . e / d ln
eln p . h;e /
is eed vex in the ues ln p . h; e / .
ver , by ect ion in eq
. q / d min
q . h j e ; / ln p . h; e / ln p . e /
and ing ith ect to ln p . h; e / , the ate ion f the ive opy ion wer und the log ood as ows :
. q / is een to be fhg q . h j e / ln q . h j e / .
hus , ing eq .
( 123 ) , we can
ln p . e /
q . h j e / ln p . h; e / q . h j e / ln q . h j e /
his is cal to eq .
ver , we see hat we uld in ple ver the act log ood if q ere wed to nge ver all ity ons q . h j e / .
by ing ver a zed ily q . h j e ; / , we ain the est wer und hat is ble hin the ily .
ter ion via nal ods
eal and ton ( 123 ) ave ted out hat the wer und in eq .
( 123 ) has a ful ole to lay in the ext of mum ood ter ion .
in lar , hey ake a ink een his wer und and ter ion via the em thm .
let us ent our ion to ude ers ( cid : 123 ) in the ion of the int ity ion p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / .
as ore , we ate a set of the des e as the ved nce .
the nal ity p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / , ght of as a ion of ( cid : 123 ) , is own as the ood .
the em thm is a hod for mum ood ter ion hat mbs in the log ood .
it oes so by ing use of the ity hip een ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / and ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / bed in the ous ion .
in ion 123 we wed hat the ion
l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / d
q . h j e / ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / q . h j e / ln q . h j e /
is a wer und on the log ood for any ity ion q . h j e / .
ver , we wed hat the nce een ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / and the und l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / is the kl nce een q . h j e / and p . h j e / .
ose now hat we low q . h j e / to
ion to nal ods
nge ver all ble ity ons on h and ize the kl nce .
it is a ard ult ( cf .
ver & mas , 123 ) hat the kl nce is zed by ing q . h j e / d p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / , and hat the mal lue is ero .
his is ied by ing p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / nto the ght - and ide of eq .
( 123 ) and ing ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / .
his sts the ing thm .
ing rom an ial ter tor ( cid : 123 ) . 123 / , we ate the ing two eps , own as the e ( ion ) tep and the m ( iza - ion ) tep .
rst , we ize the und l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / ith ect to ity ons q .
ond , we x q and ize the und l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / ith ect to the ers ( cid : 123 ) .
ore lly , we ave :
( e tep ) : q . 123 / d arg max ( m tep ) : ( cid : 123 ) . 123 / d arg max
q; ( cid : 123 ) . k /
ich is ate ent in l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / .
his can be ted to the nal ion of the em thm ( ter , ird , & bin , 123 ) by ing hat for xed q , the ght - and ide of eq .
( 123 ) is a ion of ( cid : 123 ) nly ugh the ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / erm .
hus ing l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / ith ect to ( cid : 123 ) in the m tep is ent to ing the ing ion :
h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) . k /
ln p . h; e j ( cid : 123 ) / :
ion of his ion , own as the ete log ood in the em ure , nes the m tep in the nal ion of em .
let us now urn to the ion in ich we are ble to ute the ull nal ion p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / .
in uch ses nal ogy sts hat we der a ily of ing ons .
ugh we are no ger ble to orm a rue em ion ven hat we not ail ves of p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / , we can ill orm ate ent in the wer und l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / .
eed , the nal egy of imi - ing the kl nce ith ect to the nal ers hat ene the rox - ing ily is tly a ted orm of ate ent in the rst ent of l . q; ( cid : 123 ) / .
we hen low his tep by an m tep hat ses the wer und ith ect to the ers ( cid : 123 ) .
his int of iew , ich can be wed as a lly ble ion to the em thm , has een ted in a ber of ent res , ing the oid ief ork , ial den kov del and den kov ion ree res hat we uss in the ing ons , as ell as the ltz ine of yan et al .
( 123 ) and ton et al .
( 123 ) .
we now urn to the lem of ing a ble nal ion for a ven cal del .
we ish to ick a ied aph ich is oth ich ugh to ide
dan et al .
ons hat are ose to the rue ion , and ple ugh so hat an act lgo - thm can be zed tly for ons der the ate ion .
lar ons old for the nal ion : the nal ion ust be lly ich so hat ood ons are ble and yet ple ugh so hat a ure hat zes the kl nce has ome ope of ing ood ers and not ing uck in a cal mum .
it is not ily ble to ize all of ese ata ly; ver , in a ber of ses it has een und hat ely ple nal ons can eld bly ate ons .
in his ion we uss ral uch les .
ean eld ann ine .
in ion 123 we sed a ial nal thm hat ded per and wer nds for the ann ine .
we now sit the ann ine hin the ext of the ock ach and uss wer nds .
we lso ate the two hes .
all hat the int ity for the ann ine can be ten as ows :
p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / d exp
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
ere ( cid : 123 ) i j d 123 for des si and s j hat are not ors in the aph .
der now the ion of the nal ion p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / in a ann ine .
for des si 123 e and s j 123 e , the ion ( cid : 123 ) i j si s j ces to a ant , ich hes hen we ize .
if si 123 h and s j 123 e , the tic ion mes a ear ion hat we ate ith ode si .
lly , ear rms ted ith des si 123 e lso ome nts and ish .
in ary , we can ess the nal ion p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / as ows :
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j cp
ere the ums are ted to nge ver des in h and the ted ers ( cid : 123 ) c ude ons ted ith the nce des :
p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / d exp
d ( cid : 123 ) 123 c
( cid : 123 ) i j s j :
the ted ion ion zc is ven as ows :
( cid : 123 ) i j si s j c
in sum , we ave a ann ine on the set h .
the ean eld ion ( son & son , 123 ) for ann nes is a lar orm of nal ion in ich a ely zed ion
ion to nal ods
( a ) a ode si in a ann ine ith its kov ket .
( b ) the ing ean eld ion q is sed on a aph ith no ges .
the ean eld ons eld a tic hip , ted in the ure ith the ted nes , een the nal ers i and j for des j in the kov ket of ode i .
is sed to ate p . h j e ; ( cid : 123 ) / .
hat is , we der the est ble oxi - ing on; one hat is ned by ing all of the ges in the ann aph ( see ure 123 ) .
for his ice of q . h j e ; / , ( ere we now use to ent the nal ers ) , we ave tle ice as to the nal nto ent as rge an ing ily as ble we dow ach ree of dom si ith its own nal ter i .
hus q can be ten as ows :
q . h j e ; / d
. 123 i / 3si ;
ere the uct is ken ver the den des h .
ing the kl nce een the lly zed q ion and the p tri -
ion in eq .
( 123 ) , we ain :
d . q k p / d
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / ) ( cid : 123 ) i j i j i c ln zc;
ere the ums nge oss des in h .
in ing his ult we ave sed the act hat , der the q ion , si and s j are ent dom les ith ean ues i and j .
we now ake ves of the kl nce ith ect to i ing hat zc is
ent of i and set the ive to ero to ain the ing ons :
i d ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) i j j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere ( cid : 123 ) . z / d 23= . 123 c e z / is the tic ion and we ene ( cid : 123 ) i j ual to ( cid : 123 ) ji for j < i .
ion ( 123 ) nes a set of led ons own as the ean eld ons .
dan et al .
ese ons are ved ely for a xed int ion .
ote hat ach nal ter i tes its lue sed on a sum oss the nal ers in its kov ket ( cf .
ure 123 ( b ) ) .
his can be wed as a nal orm of a cal age ing thm .
son and son ( 123 ) red the ean eld ion to bbs ing on a set of est ses and und hat it ran 123 mes ter , ile ing a hly ent vel of acy .
ere are ses , ver , in ich the ean eld ion is own to eak own .
ese ses ude rse ann nes and ann nes ith ted ns; ese are rks ose ial ons ody nts een ing des hat not be sly sed ( see lso and , 123 ) .
in the ase of rse rks , act hms can ide lp; eed , his ion led to the use of act hms as nes hin the red ean eld ach ued by aul and dan ( 123 ) .
let us now der the ter ion lem for ann nes .
ing
out the wer und in eq .
( 123 ) for his ase , we ave : i ln z
ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) /
( cid : 123 ) i j i j c
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / )
ing the ive ith ect to ( cid : 123 ) i j lds a ent ich has a ple ian erm i j as ell as a ion rom the ive of ln z ith ect to ( cid : 123 ) i j .
it is not ard to how hat his ive is hsi s ji; ere the ets ify an age ith ect to the nal ion p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / .
hus we ave the ing ent thm for ing an ate m tep :
123 ( cid : 123 ) i j / . i j hsi s ji / :
ely , ver , ven our ion hat ons der the ann dis - ion are ble for the aph der ion , it is ble to ute the nal age .
we can nce ain eal to ean eld ory and ute an ion to hsi s ji , ere we now use a zed ion on all of the es; ver , the m tep is now a nce of nts of two ent nds and is ore no ger eed to ase l .
ere is a ore ous lem , ver , ich is rly ent in sed ing ems .
if the ata set of est is a het - ous ion of sub - ons , uch as in sed ion ems , the nal ion ill lly be red to ave ple des .
rtu - ely the zed ean eld ion is dal and is a oor ion for a lti - dal ion .
one ach to his lem is to ize lti - dal q ons hin the ean - eld rk; for ple , ola and dan ( 23a ) uss the use of ure els as ing ons .
ese ues nd a ore ory ent in the ext of ted phs , as we see in the ing ion .
in lar , the ent for a ted aph ( cf .
( 123 ) ) oes not ire ges der the nal ion .
ion to nal ods
lly , let us der the hip een the ean eld ion and the wer nds hat we ned via a ial thm in ion 123 .
in act , if we run the ter thm til all des are ted rom the aph , we ain a und hat is cal to the ean eld und ( ola , 123 ) .
to see his , ote hat for a ann ine in ich all of the des ave een ted ere are no tic and ear ms; nly the ant rms ain .
all rom ion 123 hat the ant hat ses hen ode i is ved is l een ted to orb the ear rms rom sly ted des j < i .
( all hat the ter ate is ven by q ( cid : 123 ) 123 d ( cid : 123 ) 123 c l ( cid : 123 ) i j for the val of a lar ode j hat is a bor of i ) .
ing her uch tes for j < i , and ing oss all des i , we nd hat the ing ant erm is ven as ows :
/ , ere o ( cid : 123 ) 123 ers to the lue of ( cid : 123 ) 123 ter it has
o ( cid : 123 ) 123 c h . l
fo ( cid : 123 ) 23i c h . i / g d
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / )
his ers rom the wer und in eq .
( 123 ) nly by the erm ln z , ich ars hen we ize ith ect to i .
( cid : 123 ) i j i j c
ral rks .
as sed in ion 123 , the oid ief ork is sen - lly a ( ted ) ral ork ith cal del ics .
we ize the tic ion as the ode ity ion :
si d 123 j s . i /
123 c exp
23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere we ume hat ( cid : 123 ) i j d 123 ess j is a ent of i .
( in lar , ( cid : 123 ) i j 23d 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ji d 123 ) .
ing hat the ies for oth the si d 123 ase and the si d 123 ase can be ten in a gle ion as ows :
23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123 123 c exp 23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123 123 c exp
23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
si j s . i /
p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / d
we ain the ing ion for the int ion :
we ish to ate nal ies der his int ion .
as we ave een ( cf .
ure 123 ) , nce for ral oid ief rks is ble , and hus it is ble to der nal ons .
aul , ola , and dan
dan et al .
( 123 ) and aul and dan ( 123 ) ave red the ity of the ple ely zed ion .
hus nce ain we set :
q . h j e ; / d
. 123 i / 3si ;
and mpt to nd the est uch ion by ing the ers i .
the ion of the kl nce d . q k p / eds uch as it oes in the ase of the ean eld ann ine .
the opy erm ( q ln q ) is the ame as ore .
the rgy erm ( q ln p ) is und by ing the thm of eq .
( 123 ) and ing ith ect to q .
ing ese lts her , we ain :
ln p . e j ( cid : 123 ) /
123 c exp
( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
( cid : 123 ) i j i j c
( i ln i c . 123 i / ln . 123 i / )
ere hi tes an age ith ect to the q ion , and ere we ave sed ion by ing i ues for i 123 e; ese are set to the ted ues i 123 23; 23g .
ote hat , ite the act hat q is zed , we are ble to ate the age 23i / ( cid : 123 ) i j s j c ( cid : 123 ) 123
his is an ant erm ich of ln ( 123 c ezi ) , ere zi tes ses tly rom the ted ure of the oid ief ork ( it ses rom the tor of the oid , a tor ich is ary to ene the oid as a cal nal ity ) .
to eal ith his erm , aul et al .
( 123 ) ced an nal nal ion , due to ung ( 123 ) , hat can be wed as a ned orm of ens ity .
in lar : hln ( 123 c ezi ) i d hln ( ei zi e
d zii c
i zi . 123 c ezi / i
zii c ln
i zi c e . 23i / zi i zi c e . 23i / zi
ere i is a nal ter .
( ote hat the ity ces to the ard sen ity for i d 123 ) .
the nal ult can be zed tly in eq .
( 123 ) to ide a ble wer und on the log ood and the nal ter i can be zed ong ith the her nal ers .
aul and dan ( 123 ) how hat in the ing ase of rks in ich ach den ode has a rge ber of nts , so hat a ral mit rem can be ked , the ter i has a tic ion as the ate ion of ( cid : 123 ) . zi / , ere ( cid : 123 ) . / is ain the tic ion .
ion to nal ods
( a ) a ode si in a oid ief ork ine ith its kov ket .
( b ) the ean eld ons eld a tic hip , ted in the ure ith the ted nes , een the nal ers i and j for des j in the kov ket of ode i .
for xed ues of the ers i , by ing the kl nce ith ect
to the nal ers i , we ain the ing ncy ons :
i d ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) i j j c ( cid : 123 ) 123 c
( cid : 123 ) ji .
j j / c
j z j c e . 123 j / z ji ith ect to i .
as aul et al .
ere k ji is the ive of nhe how , his erm nds on ode i , its ild j , and the her nts ( the co - nts ) of ode j .
ven hat the rst erm is a sum ver ons rom the nts of ode i , and the ond erm is a sum ver ons rom the ren of ode i , we see hat the ncy ion for a ven ode ain ves ons rom the kov ket of the ode ( see ure 123 ) .
hus , as in the ase of the ann ine , we nd hat the nal ers are ked via eir kov ets and the ncy ion ( eq .
( 123 ) ) can be ted as a cal age - ing thm .
aul , ola , and dan ( 123 ) and aul and dan ( 123 ) lso how how to ate the nal ers i .
the two ers ize ese ers in tly ent ays and ain ent ate ons .
( yet her ted nal ion for the oid ief ork , ing oth per and wer nds , is ted in ola and dan , 123 ) .
lly , we can ute the ent ith ect to the ers ( cid : 123 ) i j for xed nal ers and .
the ult ned by aul and dan ( 123 ) kes the ing orm :
123 ( cid : 123 ) i j / . i i / j ( cid : 123 ) i j i . 123 i / i . 123 i / :
ote hat ere is no eed to ate nal ers der the nal tri - ion , p . s j ( cid : 123 ) / , as in the ase of the ann ine ( a act rst ted by eal , 123 ) .
dan et al .
ure 123
the ost ure ows les of the ges sed by aul and dan ( 123 ) in ing eir ten git ier .
the ost ure ows les of ges ose tom ves ere red rom eir top ves via a nal nce thm .
ote lso the ing nce of a ion the ond erm in the ion is a ght cay erm hat is mal for non - eme ues of the ria - nal ers ( oth of ese ers are ded een ero and one ) .
hus , his lly - ted ion to mum ood ion is in act a orm of zed mum ood ion .
aul and dan ( 123 ) ted the oid ief ork on a ten git las - ion lem , ing lts hat ere ive ith her sed ing ems .
les of the its hat aul and dan sed are own in ure 123
ure 123 lso tes the ity of a oid ief ork to ll in ing ata .
all of the els in the tom ves of ese ges ere ted as ing and eir ues ere red via nal nce ons .
as a ult of his ity for ing in ing ata , the ion in ion nce ith ing els is ht; eed , aul and dan ted hat the ion ror ent rom 123 ent to 123 ent hen alf of the els ere ing .
for her ive cal ork on oid ief rks and ted tec -
res , ing ons ith bbs ing , see rey , ton , and yan ( 123 ) .
ial den kov els .
the ial den kov del ( hmm ) is a ple ain ure ( see ure 123 ( a ) ) .
ing the ion ped ier ( see ion 123 ) , the int ity ion for the hmm is ven by :
ytg j ( cid : 123 )
ion der his ity ion is lly ble use , as we saw ier , the que ize mes bly rge hen the hmm ain ure is zed and ted .
hus it is ary to der ons .
ion to nal ods
( a ) the hmm .
( b ) a nal ion for the hmm can be ned by ing out a ble ure in the hmm aph .
ing his aph ads to a ily of ble ing
for the hmm ere is a ral ure on ich to ase a nal thm .
in lar , the ins hat ose the hmm are lly ble .
ore , her han ing all of the ges , as in the ive ean eld ion sed in the ous two ons , it uld eem ore ble to ove nly as any ges as are ary to ple the ins .
in lar , we ove the ges hat ink the ate des to the put des ( see ure 123 ( b ) ) .
out ese ges the ion ess no ger nks the ate des and no ger tes rge ues .
in act , the ion ess on the ked aph in ure 123 ( b ) is ous , as is the ion .
hus the ues on the ked aph are of ize n 123 , ere n is the ber of tes for a gle ain .
one ion of ate nce uns in ime o . mt n 123 / , ere m is the ber of ins and t is the gth of the ime ies .
let us now der how to ess a nal ion ing the ked aph of ure 123 ( b ) as an ion .
the dea is to uce one ree ter nto the ing ity ion , q , for ach dge hat we ave ped .
ese ree ers , ich we ote as . m / , lly rve as tes for the ect of the ion at ime t on ate ent m .
hen we ize the nce d . q k p / ith ect to ese ers hey ome nt; his ( tic ) nce can be wed as an ion to the tic nce hat is red in an act thm via the ion ess .
ing to ure 123 ( b ) , we ite the ing q ion in the ing
ere is the tor of nal ers . m / to be the uct of the act ion rix a . m / and the nal ter . m /
we ene the ion rix qa . m /
and rly for the ial ate ies q . m / :
dan et al .
his ily of ons cts the nal nce nts of the ap - ate aph in ure 123 , and des nal ees of dom via the nal
ani and dan ( 123 ) ent the ons hat ult rom ing the kl nce een the ing ity ion ( eq .
( 123 ) ) and the rue ity ion ( eq .
the ult can be zed as ows .
as in the her res hat we ave sed , the ion for a nal ter ( . m / ) is a ion of rms hat are in the kov ket of the ing ked ode ( i . e . , , for n 23d m , hus ing yt ) .
in lar , the ate for . m / nds on the ers . n / the nal ers at ime t .
ver , the ate for . m / nds on the ted lue of the tes x . m / , ere the ion is ken der the ion q .
ven hat the ins are led der q , ons are und by ing one of the act hms ( for ple , the ard - ard thm for mms ) , ely for ach ain .
ese ons of rse end on the ent ues of the ers . m / ( cf .
( 123 ) ) , and it is his nce hat ely les the ins .
to ize , ing the nal ers for a hmm is an ive , two - ase ure .
in the rst ase , an act thm is run as a ine to ate pec - ons for the den tes .
his is one tly for ach of the m ins , ing nce to the ent ues of the ers . m / .
in the ond ase , the ers are ted sed on the ons ted in the rst ase .
the ure hen rns to the rst ase and tes .
ani and dan ( 123 ) ted lts on ing an hmm to the ach ale ata set ( erz & phy , 123 ) .
hey wed hat tly ger ive ate ces uld be t ith the hmm han ith an red hmm , and hat nce in rms of ity of the est set was an der of ude ger for the hmm .
ver , nce of ing was een for the hmm for 123 tes or re; no nce of ing for the hmm was een for up to 123 tes .
den kov ion ees .
as a nal ple we urn to the den kov ion ree ( mdt ) bed in the ion and iey uss nal oxi - ion for his ure .
as we ave sed , a mdt is lly a kov ime ies del , ere the ity del at ach ime tep is a ( tic ) ion ree ith den ion des .
the ian nce is ned via ate ion ces at the ent els of the ion ree , ing the del a zed ure .
the nal ach to ing a mdt is ely ted to hat of ing a mm; ver , ere are nal ces as to the nal ion .
in lar , we ave two res rth ing in the mdt : ( 123 ) ing the cal ges , we ver a led set of ins .
as in the hmm , ese ins can ach be led by the ard - ard thm .
( 123 ) ing the tal ges , we ver a led set of ion ees .
we can ate ies in ese ees ing the ior ion thm bed in dan ( 123 ) .
the rst ach , ich we fer to as the est of ins ion , is own in ure 123
as in the hmm , we ite a nal ion for the est of ins ion by ing the nal ies in the ing aph
ion to nal ods
ure 123
the est of ins ion for the mdt .
ing his aph ads to an oxi - ing ily of q ons .
ure 123
the est of ees ion for the mdt .
ing his aph ads to an oxi - ing ily of q ons .
and ing nal ers to ain tra ees of dom ( see dan et al . , 123 , for the ils ) .
we can lso der a est of ees ion in ich the tal nks are ted ( see ure 123 ) .
ven hat the ion ree is a lly ted aph , his is lly a ive ean eld ion on a aph .
lly , it is lso ble to lop a nal thm for the mdt hat is alo - ous to the rbi thm for mms .
in lar , we ize an ion q hat gns ity one to a gle ath in the ate ace .
the kl nce for his q ion is rly asy to ate , ven hat the opy ion to the kl nce ( i . e . , the q ln q erm ) is ero .
ver , the ion of the rgy ( i . e . , the q ln p erm ) ces to ing the tes ong the sen ath nto the p ion .
the ing thm ves a ine in ich a ard rbi thm is run on a gle ain , ith the her ins eld xed .
his ine is run on ach ain
dan et al .
( 123 ) und hat nce of the mdt on the ach les was lly the ame as hat of the hmm .
the age of the mdt was its ter ty; ost of the uns ted in a rse - to - ne ing of the ral les of the kov ses rom the top to the tom of the ree .
dan et al .
we ave bed a ety of ons of nal ods to ems of nce and ing in cal els .
we ope to ave ced the der hat nal ods can ide a ful and ant ool for cal els , and hat the lgo - hms hat ult are ple and ely ing .
it is ant to ize , ver , hat rch on nal ods for cal els is of ite ent gin , and ere are any pen ems and ved ues .
in his ion we uss a ber of ese ues .
we lso den the ope of the ion and uss a ber of ted nds of rch .
ted rch
the ods hat we ave sed all lve tic , ive ion al - hms .
it is of est to uss ted ion mes hat are her non - tic or non - ive .
ion els and the ltz ine .
all of the hms hat we ave ted ave at eir ore a ear ion lem .
in lar , ter ing ced the nal ers , her lly or as a ock , we are eft ith a und uch as hat in eq .
( 123 ) hat ust be zed .
ion of his und is lly ved via a xed - int ion or a ent - sed thm .
his ive ion ess ces ies een the nal ers ich ive us a est ion to the nal or nal ity of est .
der in lar a lem in ich a ted cal del is sed for nsu - sed ing .
a mon ach in sed ing is to der cal els hat are ted in the ive on; hat is , hey int rom den ari - les to les .
in his ase the ive ion of p . e j h / is ary .
the ion of p . h j e / , on the her and , is a tic ion hat eds rds in the aph .
tic ons are lly non - ial and ire the ull wer of an nce thm .
an ive ach to ing ely for an ion to the tic ion is to arn oth a ive del and a ion del hat tes the tic ion p . h j e / .
hus we ate ent ers ith the ene - ive del and the ion del and ely on the ter ion ess to ing ese ons nto ter .
his is the sic dea ind the ltz ine ( yan et al . , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) .
the key age of the ion - del ach is hat the ion of p . h j e /
is ced to an ary ard ion hat can be med kly .
ere are ome ges to the ach as ell .
in lar , the ack of an ive thm kes the ltz ine ble to eal lly ith ing ata , and ith ena uch as ing - way , in ich the ngs een den les nge as a ion of the ing les .
ver , ugh in ome ses ere is a ear ral ion for the ion del hat is
ion to nal ods
ced rom the ive del ( in lar for ear els uch as tor sis ) , in ral it is ult to ure hat the els are hed ely . 123 ome of ese ems ght be sed by ing the ion - del ach ith the ive nal ch; lly ing the ion - del as a che for ing ood ons for the nal ers .
ing ods .
in his ion we ake a few rks on the ips een nal ods and tic ods , in lar the bbs ler .
in the ing of cal els , oth ses of ods ely on ive age - ing .
in bbs ing , the age - ing is rly ple : ach ode rns the cur - ent ion of its kov ket .
ith ugh les the ode can ate the ion ver its kov ket and ( hly ing ) ine its own ics .
the age of his eme is hat in the mit of ery any les , it is eed to rge to the ect ics .
the age is hat ery any les may be
the age - ing in nal ods is ite ent .
its ose is to ple the nal ers of one ode to ose of its kov ket .
the ges do not ome in the orm of les , but her in the orm of ate ics ( as zed by the nal ers ) .
for ple , in a ork of ary des , ile the bbs ler is ing ges of ary ors hat ond to the ons of kov ets , the nal ods are ing eal - ued ers hat ond to the ics of kov ets .
his may be one son why nal ods ten rge ter han bbs ing .
of rse , the age of ese mes is hat hey do not ily rge to the ect ics .
on the her and , hey can ide nds on nal ies hat are ite ult to ate by ing .
eed , ing - sed ile ell - ted to ing the ics of ual den h p . h; e / .
an ing ion for ure rch is to der ons of ing ods and nal ods .
ome ial ork in his ion has een one by ton , ans , and ani ( 123 ) , who uss ief bbs ing rom the int of iew of nal ion .
are ill - ped to ute nal ies uch as p . e / dp
ian ods .
nal nce can be ied to the ral lem of ian ter ion .
eed we can ite lly eat ers as nal des in a cal del ( cf .
man , 123 ) and eby eat ian nce on the ame ing as ric tic nce in a cal del .
his tic nce lem is ten ble , and nal ons can be ful .
a nal hod own as ble ing was lly ced as a way of ing an ble of ral rks to ata , ere ach ing of the ers can be ght of as a ent ber of the ble ( ton & van amp , 123 ) .
let q . ( cid : 123 ) j e / ent a nal ion to the ior ion p . ( cid : 123 ) j e / .
the ble is t by ing the ate kl nce :
k l . q k p / d
q . ( cid : 123 ) j e / ln
q . ( cid : 123 ) j e / p . ( cid : 123 ) j e /
dan et al .
ing the ame ine of ent as in ion 123 , we now hat his ion ust be ent to the ion of a wer und .
in lar , ing the ent rom ion 123 , we nd hat ing the kl nce lds the est wer und on the ing ity :
ln p . e / d ln
p . e j ( cid : 123 ) / p . ( cid : 123 ) / d ( cid : 123 ) ;
ich is the thm of the nal od; a key ity in ian del ion and del ing .
ore tly , the ble ing ach has een ied to ure of rts ar - res ( use , kay , & son , 123 ) and den kov els ( kay , 123 ) .
one ing ect of ese ons is hat hey do not ume any lar ric ily for q , her hey ake the ric ion hat q zes in a cic way .
the nal ion elf nes the est ily ven his ion and the ior on ( cid : 123 ) .
ola and dan ( 23b ) ave lso ped nal ods for ian in - nce , ing a nal ach to nd an lly ble ion for tic ion ith a ian ior on the ers .
ive and ves .
aps the key sue hat ces ers of ari - nal ods is the sue of ion acy .
one can lop an ion for hen nal ods orm ell and hen hey orm rly by ing eir ies in ain ell - ied ses .
in the ase of lly zed ons for ted phs , a ood ing int is the cal ics ure ere his ion can ive not nly ood , but eed act , lts .
uch ses ude ely ted phs ith mly eak ( but non - ive ) ngs een ing des ( isi , 123 ) .
the ean eld ons for ese rks ave a que ion hat nes the ics of ual des in the mit of ery rge phs .
rns and aul ( 123 ) ave zed rge ion ods to udy the ion acy of nds on the ood for nse ted phs .
ing the acy in rms of the ber n of nts for ach ode ( med ant ) in a red aph , hey ave own hat the gap een nal per and wer nds ges at a ate of ln . n / =n / .
eir ach zes a her ral orm of per and wer nds for the cal nal ies hat oes not end on ity ies .
hus eir ult uld be ted to be her ust oss the ral ily of nal ds; ver , ter tes may be ble for the ity - sed nal ons sed in the ent per .
in ore ral cal els the ons for nce of lly zed nal ons may not be so ble .
in ral ome des may ave a all kov ket or may be gly ent on lar ors , and nal ons of uch des uld eld oor nds .
ore lly , if ere are ong tic ies in the del the ior can ave ple des ( eed , in the ing ase of tic ips one can ily ate ing ata hat ave ple des ) .
lly zed ons , ich are ily dal ,
ion to nal ods
ill ail in uch ses .
ing uch ses res ing use of ods hat orm nly a set of the des , ing act ial res as nes to dle the med ure .
the act ods can ure the ong ies , ing the ker ies for the nal ons .
in ice , ing his ind of ion of bor her res hat the ong ies can be ied in nce by ion of the aph , or can be ied in the ext of a ial nal hod via ple edy ons .
an ive ach to ing ple des is to ize ure els as ing ons ( the q ons in ock nal ods ) .
see ola and dan ( 23a ) and hop et al .
( 123 ) for ion of his ach .
lly , it is lso ant to ess the nce een int ons p . h; e / , and nal ons p . h j e / .
in any ons , uch as ion ems in ich h nts a ory bel , the int ion p . h; e / is lti - dal , but the nal ion p . h j e / is not .
hus zed ons may ake nse for nce ems ven hen hey uld be oor all ons to the int ity del .
her key sue has to do ith ing the ope of nal ods .
in his per we ave ted a ted set of nal ues , ose sed on ity ons .
for ese ues to be ble the ate ity ies eed to be ied .
ile it is ely asy to ize all ses of els ere ese ies ead to ple ion hms , uch as the ase in ich the cal nal ies are log - ave zed ear els , it is not lly asy to lop nal hms for her nds of cal els .
a der ion of nal ons is ded and a ore tic bra is ded to tch the ons to els .
her pen ems ude : ( 123 ) the lem of ing nal ods ith ing ods and ith rch sed ods , ( 123 ) the lem of ing ore in - med ces of ode ing in the ase of ial ods , ( 123 ) the ent of per nds hin the ock ork , ( 123 ) the ion of ple nal ons for the ame del , and ( 123 ) the ent of nal ods for res hat ine ous and ete dom les .
lar pen ems ist for ing ods and for ods sed on ete or ned ons of act ods .
the lty in ing lid cal ons in all of ese ses ies in the act hat acy is ent to a rge ree on the ual nal ity ues of the ing ity del her han on the ete ies of the aph .
in his ion , we ate the ate ons for the thm ion and the log
for f . x / d ln x , we ave :
. / d min
fx ln xg :
dan et al .
ing the ive ith ect to x and ing to ero lds x d 123
ing ack in eq .
( a . 123 ) lds :
. / d ln c 23;
ich ies the ion of the thm ven in eq
for the log tic ion g . x / d ln . 123 c e
x / , we ave :
. / d min
fx c ln . 123 c e
ing the ive ith ect to x and ing to ero lds :
123 c ex
rom ich we ain :
x d ln
ln . 123 c e
x / d ln
ing ese ons ack nto eq .
( a . 123 ) lds :
. / d ln . 123 / ln . 123 / ;
ich is the ary opy ion h . / .
his ies the ion of the tic ion ven in eq
we ish to ank dan rey , vid man , ffe lff , and ( as ays ) ter yan for ful nts on the ipt .
our ion ill ake the int of iew hat ion and ion , hen ned ith a cal age - ing thm , are ent for act nce .
it is lso ble to how hat , der ain ons , ese eps are ary for act nce .
see sen and sen ( 123 ) .
ere and ere we ify the ith ode ith the dom ble si ted ith the ode .
we ene a que to be a set of des ich are lly ted and al; i . e . , no nal ode
can be ded to the set so hat the set ins lly ted .
ote in lar hat ure 123 is the ion of ure 123
ion to nal ods
the nym qmr - dt ers to the ion tic ion of the ick cal nce .
in lar , the ern of ing ges in the aph ies hat ( a ) the ses are lly ent ,
and ( b ) ven the ses , the oms are lly ent .
ola and dan ( 23b ) lso ted the ian of the ise set ize .
his lue was und to
be 123 , ich lso les out act set ods for nce for the qmr - dt .
it is lso ble to der ore ral ann nes ith ued des , and als hat are als of ary ons on the ues .
uch els are lly ent to the ral ted cal del of eq .
( 123 ) ( ugh the ter can ent ero ies ile the mer
ote hat we eat p . h; e / in ral as a nal ty; hat is , we do not ily ume hat h
and e tly ust the set of des s .
the lar ion del zed in the ltz ine is a red aph , ich kes eak nal nce ons and hus kes it ble , in ple , to ure rly ral
