int mod of the env hav an imp rol to pla in ada - tiv sys in gen and are of par imp for the sup lea par .
in thi pap we dem tha cer cla pro - lem ass wit the not of the tea " in sup lea can be sol by jud use of lea int mod as com of the ada - tiv sys .
in par , we sho how sup lea alg can be uti in cas in whi an unk dyn sys int bet act and des out .
our app app to any sup lea alg tha is cap of lea in mul - lay net .
*th pap is a rev ver of mit cen for cog sci occ pap .
we wis to tha mic moz , and bar , rob jac , eri loe , and jam mcc for hel com on the man .
thi pro was sup in par by brs s rr - awa by the bio re - sea sup gra pro , div of res res , nat ins of hea , by a gra fro atr aud and vis per res lab - tor , by a gra fro sie cor , by a gra fro the hum fro sci pro , and by gra n - - j - awa by the oce of nav
rec wor on lea alg for con net has see a pro - gre wea of the ass mad abo the rel bet the lea and the env .
cla sup lea alg suc as the per ros , and the lms alg wid & ho , mad two str ass : the out uni are the onl ada uni in the net , and the is a tea " tha pro des sta for all of the out uni .
ear in the dev of suc alg it was rec tha mor pow sup lea alg cou be rea by wea the rst ass and inc int uni tha ada rec the inp rep pro by the env ros , .
the sub dev of alg suc as bol lea hin & sej , and bac lec , ; par , ; rum , hin , & wil , ; wer , hav pro the mea for tra net wit ada non int uni .
the sec ass has als bee wea alg tha req no exp tea hav bee dev bec & hin , ; gro , ; koh , ; lin , ; rum & zip , .
suc uns " lea alg gen per som sor of clu or fea ext on the inp dat and are bas on ass abo the sta or top pro of the inp ens .
in thi pap we exa in som det the not of the tea " in the sup lea par .
we arg tha the tea is les of a lia tha has com bee ass and tha the ass tha the env pro des sta for the out of the net can be wea sig wit aba the sup lea par alt .
ind , we fee tha an app int of the rol of the tea is cru in app the ran of pro to whi the par can be app .
the iss tha we wis to add is bes ill by way of an exa .
con a ski - lea tas suc as tha fac by a bas pla lea to sho bas .
the pro for the lea is to nd the app mus com to pro the bal tow the goa .
die com are app for die loc of the goa in the vis sce thu , a map fro vis sce to mus com is req .
wha lea alg mig und the acq of suc a map ? cle , clu or fea ext on the vis inp is not suc .
mor , it is dic to see how to app cla sup alg to thi pro , bec the is no tea to pro mus com as tar to the lea .
the onl tar inf pro to the lea is in ter of the out of the mov tha is , the sig and sou of a bal pas thr the goa .
the gen sce sug by the exa is sho in fig .
int are pro as inp to the lea sys .
the lea tra int int act , whi are tra by the env int out .
act are pro var tha is , var tha the lea con dir , whi
fig : the dis sup lea pro .
tar val are ava for the dis var the out " but not for the pro var the act " .
out are dis var , var tha the lea con ind thr the int of the pro var .
dur the lea pro , tar val are ass to be ava for the dis var but not for the pro var .
the , fro a poi of vie out the lea sys , a dis sup lea tas " is a map fro int to des out .
fro the poi of vie of the lea , how , the pro is to nd a map fro int to act tha can be com wit the env to yie des dis out .
the lea mus dis how to var the com of the pro act vec so as to min the com of the dis err .
the dis sup lea pro als has a tem com .
in man env the eec of act are not pun and ins , but rat lin on and mix wit the eec of oth act .
thu the out at any poi in tim is inu by any of a num of pre act .
eve if the exi a set of var tha hav a sta rel to des out , the lea oft doe not hav dir con ove tho var .
con aga the exa of the bas pla .
alt the igh of the bal dep onl on the vel of the arm at the mom of rel sta rel is unl tha the mot con sys is abl to con rel vel dir .
rat , the sys out for or tor , and the var do not hav a sta rel to the dis out .
in the rem of the pap we des a gen app to sol the dis - tal sup lea pro .
the app is bas on the ide tha sup lea in its mos gen for is a two - pha pro .
in the rst pha the lea for a pre int mod a for mod of the tra fro act to dis out .
bec suc tra are oft not kno a pri , the int mod mus gen be lea by exp the out ass wit par cho of act .
thi aux lea pro is it - sel a sup lea pro , bas on the err bet int , pre out and act out .
onc the int mod has bee at lea par - tia lea , it can be use in an ind man to sol for the map fro
int to act .
the ide of usi an int mod to aug the cap of sup lea alg has als bee pro by wer , alt his per - tiv die in cer res fro our own .
the hav bee a num of fur dev of the ide kaw , ; miy , ; mun , ; ngu & wid , ; rob & fal , ; sch , , bas eit on the wor of wer or our own unp wor jor , ; rum , .
the are als clo tie bet our app and tec in opt con the kir , and ada con the goo & sin , ; nar & par , .
we dis sev of the rel in the rem of the pap , alt we do not att to be com .
dis sup lea and for mod
thi sec and the fol sec pre a gen app to sol dis sup lea pro .
we beg by des our ass abo the env and the lea .
we ass tha the env can be cha by a nex - sta fun f and an out fun g .
at tim ste n ( cid : 123 ) the lea pro an act un ( cid : 123 ) .
in con wit the sta of the env xn ( cid : 123 ) the act det the nex sta xn :
xn = f xn ( cid : 123 ) ; un ( cid : 123 ) :
cor to eac sta xn the is als a sen yn :
yn = gxn :
not tha sen are out vec in the cur for " in the lan of the int sec .
the nex - sta fun and the out fun tog det a sta - dep map fro act to sen .
in the cur pap we ass tha the lea has acc to the sta of the env we do not add iss rel to sta rep and sta est .
sta rep mig inv del val of pre act and sen lju & sod , , or the mig inv int sta var tha are ind as par of the lea pro moz & bac , .
giv the sta xn ( cid : 123 ) and giv the inp pn ( cid : 123 ) , the lea pro an act un ( cid : 123 ) :
un ( cid : 123 ) = hxn ( cid : 123 ) ; pn ( cid : 123 ) :
the cho of tim ind in equ , , and is bas on our foc on the out at tim n .
in our fra a lea alg alt yn bas on pre val of the sta , inp ,
fig : the com per sys con of the lea and the env .
thi sys is a map fro inp pn ( cid : 123 ) to sen yn .
the tra dat fpi ( cid : 123 ) ; y i ng spe des inp beh acr the com sys .
not tha the is an imp loo wit the env suc tha the out at tim n dep on the sta at tim n ( cid : 123 ) cf .
equ .
a dis sup lea pro is a set of tra pai fpi ( cid : 123 ) ; y
the goa of the lea pro is to mak app adj to the inp - to - act map h bas on dat obt fro int wit the env .
whe pin ( cid : 123 ) are the inp vec and y i n are the cor des sen - sat .
for exa , in the bas pro , the inp mig be a hig - lev int of sho a bas , and a des sen wou be the cor - ing vis rep of a suc out .
not tha the dis sup lea pro mak no men of the act tha the lea mus acq onl inp and des sen are spe .
fro a poi of vie out the lea sys the tra dat spe des inp beh acr the com per sys con of the lea and the env see fig .
fro the poi of vie of the lea , how , the pro is to nd a map fro inp pn ( cid : 123 ) to act un ( cid : 123 ) suc tha the res dis sen yn are the tar val yn .
tha is , the lea mus nd a map fro inp to act tha can be pla in ser wit the env so as to yie the des pai of inp and sen .
not tha the may be mor tha one act tha yie a giv des sen fro any giv sta tha is , the dis sup lea pro may be und .
thu , in the bas - ket exa , the may be a var of pat of mot com tha yie the sam des sen of see of the bal pas thr the goa .
the lea is ass to be abl to obs sta , act , and sen and can the mod the map bet act and sen .
a for mod is an int mod tha pro a pre sen ^yn bas on the sta xn ( cid : 123 ) and the act un ( cid : 123 ) .
tha is , a for mod pre the con of a
fig : lea the for mod usi the pre err yn ( cid : 123 ) ^yn .
giv act in the con of a giv sta vec .
as sho in fig , the for mod can be lea by com pre sen to act sen and usi the res pre err to adj the par of the mod .
lea the for mod is a cla sup lea pro in whi the tea pro tar val dir in the out coo sys of the lea .
dis sup lea
we now des a gen app to sol the dis sup lea pro - lem .
con the sys sho in fig , in whi the lea is pla in ser wit a for mod of the env .
thi com lea sys is a sta - dep map fro inp to pre sen .
sup tha the for mod has bee tra pre and is a per mod of the env tha is , the pre sen equ the act sen for all act and all sta .
in the eng lit , thi lea pro is ref to as sys ide "
lju & sod , .
fig : the com lea sys .
thi com sys map fro inp pn ( cid : 123 ) to pre sen ^yn in the con of a giv sta vec .
we now tre the com lea sys as a sin sup lea sys and tra it to map fro inp to des sen acc to the dat in the tra set .
tha is , the des sen y i are tre as tar for the com - ite sys .
any sup lea alg can be use for thi tra pro how , the alg mus be con so tha it doe not alt the for mod whi the com sys is bei tra .
by xin the for mod , we req the sys to nd an opt com map by var onl the map fro inp to act .
if the for mod is per , and if the lea alg nds the glo opt sol , the the res sta - dep inp - to - act map mus als be per in the sen tha it yie the des com inp beh whe pla in ser wit the env .
con now the cas of an imp for mod .
cle an imp for mod wil yie an imp inp - to - act map if the com sys is tra in the obv way , usi the die bet the des sen and the pre sen as the err ter .
thi die , the pre per err y ( cid : 123 ) ^y , is rea ava at the out of the com sys , but it is an unr gui to the tru per of the lea .
sup ins tha we ign the out of the com sys and sub the per err y ( cid : 123 ) y as the err ter for tra the com sys see fig .
if the per err goe to zer the sys has fou a cor inp - to - act map , reg of the ina of the for mod .
the ina in the for mod man its as a bia dur the lea pro , but nee not pre the per err fro goi to zer .
con , for exa , alg bas on ste des .
if the for mod is not too ina the sys can sti mov dow and the rea the sol reg , eve tho the mov is not in the dir of ste des .
to sum , we pro to sol the dis sup lea pro by tra a com lea sys con of the lea and a for mod of the env .
thi pro sol imp for an inp - to - act map by
y * ( n ) _
fig : the com sys is tra usi the per err .
the for mod is hel xed whi the com sys is bei tra .
tra the com sys to map fro inp to dis tar .
the tra of the for mod mus pre the tra of the com sys , but the for mod nee not be per , nor nee it be pre - tra thr all of sta spa .
the abi of the sys to uti an ina for mod is imp it imp tha it may be pos to int the tra of the for mod and the com sys .
in the rem of the pap , we dis the iss of int tra , ina in the for mod , and the cho of the err ter in mor det .
we rst tur to an int spe cas of the gen dis sup lea pro of lea an inv mod of the env .
an inv mod is an int mod tha pro an act un ( cid : 123 ) as a fun of the cur sta xn ( cid : 123 ) and the des sen yn .
inv mod are den by the con tha the yie the ide map whe pla in ser wit the env .
inv mod are imp in a var of dom .
for exa , if the en - vir is vie as a com cha ove whi a mes is to be tra , the it may be des to und the dis eec of the env - ron by pla it in ser wit an inv mod car , .
a sec exa , sho in fig , ari in con sys des .
a con rec the des sen yn as inp and mus nd act tha cau act sen to be as clo as pos to des sen tha is , the con mus inv
fig : an inv mod as a con .
the tra fro act to sen .
one app to ach thi obj is to uti an exp inv mod of the env as a con .
whe for mod are uni det by the env , inv mod are gen not .
if the env is cha by a man - to - one map fro act to sen the the are gen an inn num of pos inv mod .
it is als wor not tha inv do not alw exi it is not alw pos to ach a par des sen fro any giv sta .
as we sha dis , the iss of exi and uni hav imp imp for the pro of lea an inv mod .
the are two gen app to lea inv mod usi sup lea alg : the dis lea app pre abo and an alt app tha we ref to as dir inv mod " cf .
jor & ros , .
we beg by des the lat app .
dir inv mod
dir inv mod tre the pro of lea an inv mod as a cla sup lea pro wid & ste , .
as sho in fig , the ide is to obs the inp beh of the env and to tra an inv mod dir by rev the rol of the inp and out .
dat are pro to the alg by sam in act spa and obs the res in
alt dir inv mod has bee sho to be a via tec in a num of dom atk & rei , ; kup , ; mil , , it has two dra tha lim its use .
fir , if the env is cha by a man - to - one map fro act to sen , the the di - rec inv mod tec may be una to nd an inv .
the dic is tha non man - to - one map can yie non inv ima , whi are
con sys des nor inv a num of add con inv sta and rob thu , the goa is gen to inv the env as nea as pos sub to the add con .
fig : the dir inv mod app to lea an inv mod .
pro for dir inv mod .
con the sit sho in fig .
the non reg on the lef is the inv ima of a poi in sen spa .
sup tha the poi lab by xs are sam dur the lea pro .
thr of the poi cor to the sam sen thu , the tra dat as see by the dir inv mod pro are one - to - man inp is pai wit man tar .
sup lea alg res one - to - man inc - cie by ave acr the mul tar the for of the ave dep on the par cos fun tha is use .
as is sho in the gur , how , the ave of poi lyi in a non set doe not nec lie in the set .
thu the glo opt min - cos sol fou by the dir inv mod app is not nec a cor inv mod .
we pre an exa of suc beh in a fol sec .
the sec dra wit dir inv mod is tha it is not goa - dir . " the alg sam in act spa wit reg to par tar or err in sen spa .
tha is , the is no dir way to nd an act tha cor to a par des sen .
to obt par so - lut the lea mus sam ove a suc wid ran of act and rel on
fin , it is als imp to emp tha dir inv mod is re - str to the lea of inv mod is not app to the gen dis
a set is con if for eve pai of poi in the set all poi on the lin bet the poi
als lie in the set .
fig : the con pro .
the reg on the lef is the inv ima of the poi on the rig .
the arr rep the dir in whi the map is lea by dir inv mod .
the thr poi lyi ins the inv ima are ave by the lea pro , yie the vec rep by the sma cir .
thi poi is not a sol , bec the inv ima is not con .
sup lea pro .
the dis lea app to lea an inv mod
the met des ear in thi sec are dir app to the pro of lea an inv mod .
the pro of lea an inv mod can be tre as a spe cas of the dis sup lea pro in whi the inp vec and the des sen are the sam tha is , pn ( cid : 123 ) is equ to yn in equ .
thu , an inv mod is lea by pla the lea and the for mod in ser and lea an ide map acr the com
a fun die bet the dis lea app and dir in - ver mod app is tha rat tha ave ove reg in act spa , the dis lea app nds par sol in act spa .
the glo opt sol for dis lea is a set of vec fui suc tha the per
an int ana can be dra bet the dis lea app and ind tec - niq for sol sys of lin equ .
in num lin alg , rat tha sol exp for a gen inv of the coe mat , sol are gen fou ind e . g . , by app gau eli to bot sid of the equ ga = i , whe i is the ide
i ( cid : 123 ) yig are zer .
thi is tru irr of the sha of the inv im - i .
vec lyi out of an inv ima , suc as the ave age of the tar y vec sho in fig , do not yie zer per err and are the not glo opt .
thu non inv ima do not pre the sam fun - men dic for the dis lea fra as the do for dir inv
it is als tru tha the dis lea app is fun goa - dir .
the sys wor to min the per err thu , it wor dir to nd sol tha cor to the par goa at han .
in cas in whi the for map is man - to - one , the dis lea pro - ced nds a par inv mod .
wit add inf abo the par str of the inp - to - act map the is no way of pre whi of the pos inn set of inv mod the pro wil nd .
as is dis bel , how , the pro can als be con to nd par inv mod wit cer des pro .
dis lea and bac
in thi sec we des an imp of the dis lea app tha uti the mac of the bac alg .
it is imp to emp - siz at the out , how , tha bac is not the onl alg tha can be use to imp the dis lea app .
any sup lea alg - rit can be use as lon as it is cap of lea a map acr a com net tha inc a pre tra sub in par , bol lea is app jor , .
we beg by int a use sho for des bac in lay net .
a lay net can be des as a par map fro an inp vec x to an out vec y :
y = x; w;
whe w is a vec of par wei .
in the cla par , the pro for cha the wei is bas on the dis bet a tar vec y and the act out vec y .
the mag of thi dis is mea by a cos fun of the for :
y ( cid : 123 ) yt y ( cid : 123 ) y :
j is the sum of squ err at the out uni of the net .
it is gen des to min thi cos .
bac is an alg for com gra of the cos fun .
the det of the alg can be fou els e . g . , rum , et al . , ; our int her is to dev a sim not tha hid the det .
thi is
ach for by usi the cha rul to die j wit res to the wei vec w :
rwj = ( cid : 123 )
y ( cid : 123 ) y :
thi equ sho tha any alg tha com the gra of j eec mul the err vec y ( cid : 123 ) y by the tra jac mat @y= .
alt the bac alg nev for thi mat exp bac - pro is ess a fac of the mat jor , , equ non des the res of the com per by bac .
bac als com the gra of the cos fun wit res to the act of the uni in the net .
in par , the cos fun j can be die wit res to the act of the inp uni to yie :
rxj = ( cid : 123 )
y ( cid : 123 ) y :
we ref to equ as bac - to - wei " and equ as bac - pro - to - act . " bot com are car out in one pas of the alg ind , bac - to - act is nee as an int ste in the bac - to - wei com .
in the rem of thi sec we for two bro cat of lea pro tha lie wit the sco of the dis lea app and der ex - pre for the gra tha ari .
for sim it is ass in bot of the der tha the tas is to lea an inv mod tha is , the inp and the dis tar are ass to be ide .
the two for of the dis lea - ing fra foc on die asp of the dis lea pro and hav die str and wea .
the rst app , the loc opt " for , foc on the loc dyn str of the env .
bec it ass tha the lea is abl to pre sta tra bas on inf tha is ava loc in tim , it dep on pri kno of an ade set of sta var for des the env .
it is mos nat app to pro in whi tar val are pro at eac mom in tim , alt it can be ext to pro in whi tar val are pro int as we dem in a fol sec .
all of the com nee for the loc
the jac mat of a vec fun is sim its rst der is a mat of rst par der .
tha is , the ent of the mat @y= are the par der of the eac of the out act wit res to eac of the wei in the net .
to gai som ins int why a tra mat ari in bac , con a sin - lay lin net des by y = w x , whe w is the wei mat .
the row of w are the inc wei vec for the out uni of the net , and the col of w are the out wei vec for the inp uni of the net .
pas a vec for in the net inv tak the inn pro of the vec wit eac of the inc wei vec .
thi ope cor to mul by w .
pas a vec bac in the net cor to tak the inn pro of the vec wit eac of the out wei vec .
thi ope cor to mul by w t , bec the row of w t are the col of w .
opt for can be per in fee net , thu the is no pro wit sta .
the sec app , the opt - alo - tra " for , foc on glo tem dep alo par tar tra - jec .
the com nee to obt the dep is mor com tha the com nee for the loc opt for , but it is mor exi .
it can be ext to cas in whi a set of sta var is not kno a pri and it is nat app to pro in whi tar val are pro in - ter in tim .
the is pot a pro wit sta , how , bec the com for obt the gra inv a dyn pro .
the rst pro for tha we dis is a loc opt pro .
we ass tha the pro tha gen tar vec is sta and con the fol gen cos fun :
efy ( cid : 123 ) yt y ( cid : 123 ) yg;
whe y is an unk fun of the sta x and the act u .
the act u is the out of a par inv mod of the for :
u = hx; y
whe w is a wei vec .
rat tha opt j dir , by col sta ove the ens of sta and act , we uti an onl lea rul cf .
wid & ste , tha mak inc cha to the wei bas on the ins val of the cos fun :
yn ( cid : 123 ) ynt yn ( cid : 123 ) yn :
an onl lea alg cha the wei at eac tim ste bas on the sto gra of j; tha is , the gra of jn :
wn + = wn ( cid : 123 ) rwj
whe is a ste siz .
to com thi gra the cha rul is app to equ -
rwj = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn;
whe the jac mat @y= and @u= are eva at tim n ( cid : 123 ) .
the rst and the thi fac in thi exp are eas com : the rst fac des the pro of der fro the out uni of the inv mod the act uni " to the wei of the inv mod , and the thi fac is the
dis err .
the ori of the sec fac is pro , how , bec the dep of y on u is ass to be unk a pri .
our app to obt an est of thi fac has two par : fir , the sys acq a par for mod ove an app sub of the sta spa .
thi mod is of
^y = ^f x; u; v;
whe v is a vec of wei and ^y is the pre sen .
sec , the dis err is pro bac thr the for mod thi eec mul the dis err by an est of the tra jac mat @y= .
put the pie tog , the alg for lea the inv mod is
bas on the fol est sto gra :
^rw = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn :
thi exp des the pro of the dis err yn ( cid : 123 ) yn bac thr the for mod and dow int the inv mod whe the wei are cha .
the net arc in whi the com tak pla is sho in fig .
thi net is a str rea of the blo dia in fig .
it is com of an inv mod , whi lin the sta uni and the inp uni to the act uni , and a for mod , whi lin the sta uni and the act uni to the pre - sen uni .
lea the for mod
the lea of the for mod can its be for as an opt pro - lem , bas on the fol cos fun :
efy ( cid : 123 ) ^yt y ( cid : 123 ) ^yg
whe ^y is of the for giv in equ .
alt the cho of pro for ndi a set of wei v to min thi cos is ent ind of the cho of pro for opt j in equ , it is con to bas the lea of the for mod on a sto gra as bef :
rvl = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) ^yn
whe the jac mat @ ^y= is eva at tim n ( cid : 123 ) .
thi gra can be com by the pro of der wit the for mod and the req no add har bey tha alr req for lea the inv
not tha the err ter y
n ( cid : 123 ) yn is not a fun of the out of the for mod non , act mus ow for in the mod bec the est jac mat @ ^y= var as a fun of the act of the hid uni and the out uni of the
fig : a fee net tha inc a for mod .
the act uni are the out uni of the sys .
y ( cid : 123 ) y y ( cid : 123 ) ^y y ( cid : 123 ) ^y
pre per err
tab : the err sig and the sou
the err sig
it is imp to cla the mea of the err sig use in equ and .
as sho in tab , the are thr err sig tha can be for fro the var y , ^y , and y|t pre err y ( cid : 123 ) ^y , the per err y ( cid : 123 ) y , and the pre per err y ( cid : 123 ) ^y .
all thr of the err sig are ava to the lea bec eac of the sig y , y and ^y are ava ind tar y and the act sen y are pro by the env , whe the pre sen ^y is ava int .
for lea the for mod , the pre err is cle the app err sig .
the lea of the inv mod , how , can be bas on eit the per err or the pre per err .
usi the per err see equ has the adv tha the sys can lea an exa inv mod eve tho the for mod is onl app .
the are two rea for thi : rst , equ pre the min of the cos fun in equ |th are zer of the est gra .
tha is , an ina jac mat can rem zer of the est gra poi at whi y ( cid : 123 ) y is zer , alt it can int add zer spu loc min .
sec , if the est gra obt wit the app for mod hav pos inn pro wit the sto gra in equ , the the exp ste of the alg is dow in the cos .
thu the alg can in pri nd an exa inv mod eve tho the for mod is onl app .
the may als be adv to usi the pre per err .
par , it may be eas in som sit to obt lea tri usi the int mod rat tha the ext env rum , smo , mc - cle , & hin , ; sut , .
suc int tri can be tho of as a for of men pra " in the cas of bac - to - wei or pla " in the cas of bac - to - act .
the pro lea to imp per if the for mod is suc acc .
exa sol can be fou wit suc pro , how , unl the for mod is exa .
in man cas the unk map fro act to sen can be dec int a ser of sim map , eac of whi can be mod ind .
for exa , it may oft be pre to mod the nex - sta fun and the out fun sep rat tha mod the as a sin com fun .
in suc cas , the jac mat @ ^y= can be fac usi the cha rul to yie the fol est sto gra :
^rw = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn :
the est jac mat in thi exp are obt by pro der bac thr the cor for mod , eac of whi are
opt alo tra
a com inv mod all the lea to syn the act tha are nee to fol any des tra .
in the loc opt for we eec
thi sec is inc for com and is not nee for the rem of the pap .
ass tha the lea of an inv mod is of pri con and the lea of par tar tra is sec .
the lea rul giv by equ nds act tha inv the dyn of the env at the cur poi in sta spa , reg of whe tha poi is on a des tra or not .
in ter of net arc , thi app lea to usi fee net to mod the loc for and inv sta tra str see fig .
in the cur sec we con a mor spe pro for in whi the foc is on par cla of tar tra .
thi for is bas on var cal and is clo all wit met in opt con - tro the kir , ; lec , .
the alg tha res is a for of bac - in - tim " rum , hin , & wil , in a rec net tha inc a lea for mod .
the alg die fro the alg pre abo in tha it not onl inv the rel bet ac - tio and sen at the cur poi in sta spa but als mov the cur sta tow the des tra .
we con an ens of tar tra fy
ng and den the fol
n ( cid : 123 ) ynt y
n ( cid : 123 ) yng
whe is an ind acr tar tra and y is an unk fun of the sta x and the act u .
the act u is a par fun of the sta x and the tar y
u = hx; y
as in the pre for , we bas the lea rul on the sto gra of j , tha is , the gra eva alo a par sam tra y :
n ( cid : 123 ) ynt y
n ( cid : 123 ) yn :
the gra of thi cos fun can be obt usi the cal of var see als lec , , nar & par , .
let n rep the vec of par der of j wit res to xn , and let n rep the vec of par der of j wit res to un , app a sho tha the gra of j is giv by the fol rec rel :
n ( cid : 123 ) yn
n ( cid : 123 ) =
fig : a rec net wit a for mod .
the box lab by ds are uni del ele .
whe the jac mat are all eva at tim ste n and z sta for xn + thu , the jac mat @z= and @z= are the der - tiv of the nex - sta fun .
thi exp des bac - in - tim in a rec net tha inc a for mod of the nex - sta fun - tio and the out fun .
as sho in fig , the rec net is ess the sam as the net in fig , exc tha the are exp con - nec wit uni del ele bet the nex - sta and the cur sta .
bac - in - tim pro der bac thr the rec con as des by the rec rel in equ and .
as in the loc opt cas , the equ for com the gra
alt , fig can be tho of as a spe cas of fig in whi the bac -
aga err sig sto at the sta uni cf .
jor , .
inv the mul of the per err y ( cid : 123 ) y by a ser of tra jac mat , sev of whi are unk a pri .
our app to est - mat the unk fac is onc aga to lea for mod of the und map and to pro sig bac thr the mod .
thu the jac mat @z= , @z= , and @y= in equ , , and are all rep by est qua in com the est sto gra
in the fol two sec , we pur the pre of the dis lea app in the con of two pro dom .
the rst sec des lea in a sta env , whe the sec sec des lea in a dyn env .
in bot sec , we uti the loc opt for of dis
an env is sai to be sta if the eec of any giv act is ind of the his of pre act .
in sta env the map fro act to sen can be cha wit ref to a set of sta var .
suc env pro a sim dom in whi to stu the lea of inv map .
in thi sec , we pre an ill sta env and foc on two iss : the eec of non inv ima in the tra fro sen to act and the pro of goa - dir lea .
the pro tha we con is tha of lea the for and inv kin - mat of a thr - joi pla arm .
as sho in fig and fig the con - gur of the arm is cha by the thr joi ang q; q; and q , and the cor pai of car var x and x .
the fun tha rel the var is the for kin fun x = gq .
it is obt in clo for usi ele tri :
x = " lco + lco + q + lco + q + q
lsi + lsi + q + lsi + q + q ;
whe l; l; and l are the lin len .
the for kin fun gq is a man - to - one map eve car pos tha is ins the bou of the wor , the are an in - nit num of joi ang con to ach tha pos .
thi imp tha ( cid : 123 ) x is not a fun rat , the are an inn the inv kin rel g num of inv kin fun cor to par cho of poi q in the inv ima of eac of the car pos .
the pro of lea an inv kin con for the arm is tha of ndi a par inv amo the man pos inv map .
( x12 , x12 )
fig : a thr - joi pla arm .
fig : the for and inv map ass wit arm kin .
in the sim rep bel , the joi - ang con of the arm wer rep usi the vec cos ( cid : 123 ) ; cos cos , rat tha the vec of joi ang .
thi eec res the mot of the joi to the int
, ; , and ; , res , ass tha eac com of the joi - ang con vec is all to ran ove the int ( cid : 123 ) ; .
the car var x and x wer rep as rea num ran ove ( cid : 123 ) ; .
in all of the sim , the var wer rep dir as rea - val act of uni in the net .
thu , thr uni wer use to rep joi - ang con - ura and two uni wer use to rep car pos .
fur det on the sim are pro in app b .
the non pro
one app to lea an inv map is to pro tra pai to the lea by obs the inp beh of the env and rev the rol of the inp and out .
thi app , whi we ref to ear as dir inv mod , " has bee pro in the dom of inv kin by kup .
kup ide is to ran sam poi q in joi spa and to use the rea arm to eva the for kin fun x = gq , the obt tra pai x; q for lea the con .
the con is lea by opt of the fol cos fun :
efq ( cid : 123 ) qt q ( cid : 123 ) qg
whe q = hx is the out of the con .
as we dis ear , a dic wit the dir inv mod app is tha the opt of the cos fun in equ doe not nec yie an inv kin fun .
the pro ari bec of the man - to - one nat of the for kin fun cf .
fig .
in par , if two or mor of the ran sam poi q hap to map to the sam end , the the tra dat tha is pro to the con is one - to - man .
the par man in whi the inc is res dep on the for of the cos fun of the sum - of - squ err giv in equ yie an ari ave ove poi tha map to the sam end .
an ave in joi spa , how , doe not nec yie a cor res in car spa , bec the inv ima of non tra are not nec con .
thi imp tha the out of the con may be in err eve tho the sys has con to the min of the cos fun .
in fig we dem tha the inv kin of the thr - joi arm is not con .
to see if thi non has the exp eec on the dir inv mod pro we con a sim in whi a fee net wit one hid lay was use to lea the inv kin of the thr - joi arm .
the sim pro tar vec to the net by sam ran fro a uni dis in joi spa .
inp vec wer obt by map the tar vec int car spa acc to equ .
the ini val of the roo - mea - squ rms joi - spa err was : , lte ove the rst tri .
aft ; lea tri the lte err rea asy at a val of : .
a vec eld was the plo by pro des car vec as inp to the net , obt the joi - ang out , and map the out int car spa usi equ .
the res vec eld is sho in fig .
as can be see , the is sub err at man pos of the wor , eve tho the lea alg has con .
if tra is con , the loc of the err con to shi , but the rms err rem app con .
al - tho thi err is par due to the nit lea rat and the ran sam
fig : the non of inv kin .
the dot con is an ave in joi spa of the two sol con .
pro mis , " see wid & ste , , the err rem abo : eve whe the lea rat is tak to zer .
thu , mis can ac - cou for the err , whi mus be due to the non of the inv kin rel .
not , for exa , tha the err obs in fig is rep in the low lef por of fig .
in fig , we dem tha the dis lea app can nd a par - tic inv kin map .
we per a sim tha was ini wit the inc con obt fro dir inv mod .
the sim - tio uti a for mod tha had bee tra pre the for mod was tra dur the dir inv mod tri .
a gri of eve spa pos in car spa was use to pro tar dur the sec pha of the dis lea pro .
on eac tri the err in car spa was pas bac thr the for mod and use to cha the wei of the con .
aft ; suc lea tri pas thr the gri of tar - get , the res vec eld was plo .
as sho in the gur , the vec err dec tow zer thr the wor thu , the con is con tow a par inv kin fun .
the use of a gri is not nec the pro als wor if car pos are sam
ran on eac tri .
fig : nea - asy per of dir inv mod .
eac vec rep the err at a par pos in the wor .
a fur vir of the dis lea app is the eas wit whi it is pos to inc add con in the lea pro and the bia the cho of a par inv fun .
for exa , a min - nor con can be rea by add a pen ter of the for ( cid : 123 ) x to the pro err at the out of the con .
tem smo con can be rea by inc add err ter of the for xn ( cid : 123 ) xn ( cid : 123 ) .
suc con can be den at oth sit in the net as wel , inc the out uni or hid uni of the for mod .
it is als pos to pro add con inp to the con and the lea mul , con - app inv fun .
the asp of the dis lea app are dis in mor det in jor , .
dir inv mod doe not lea in a goa - dir man .
to lea a spe car tar , the pro mus sam ove a suc lar reg of joi spa and rel on int .
heu may be ava to res the sea to cer reg of joi spa , but suc heu are ess pri kno
fig : nea - asy per of dis lea .
abo the nat of the inv map and can equ wel be inc int the dis lea pro .
dis lea is fun goa - dir .
it is bas on the per err for a spe car tar and is cap of ndi an exa sol for a par tar in a sma num of tri .
thi is dem by the sim sho in fig .
sta fro the con sho in fig , a par car tar was pre for ten suc tri .
as sho in fig , the net reo its so tha the err is sma in the vic of the tar .
aft ten add tri , the err at the tar is zer wit the oat - poi res of the sim .
app for mod
we con an add sim to stu the eec of ina in the for mod .
the sim var the num of tri all to the lea of the for mod fro to .
the con was tra to an rms cri of .
at the thr tar pos ( cid : 123 ) : ; : , : ; : , and : ; : .
as sho in fig , the res dem tha an acc con can be fou wit an ina for mod .
few tri are nee to lea the tar pos to cri wit the mos acc for mod how , the dro in lea rat wit les acc for mod is rel sli .
rea
fig : goa - dir lea .
a car tar in the low rig por of the gur was pre for ten suc tri .
the err vec are clo to zer in the vic of the tar .
rap lea is obt eve whe the for mod is tra for onl tri , eve tho the ave rms err in the for mod is : m aft tri , com to : m aft tri .
fur com wit dir inv mod
in pro wit man out var it is oft unr to acq an inv mod ove the ent wor .
in suc cas the goa - dir nat of dis lea is par imp bec it all the sys to obt inv ima for a res set of loc .
how , the for mod mus als be lea ove a res reg of act spa , and the is no gen a pri met for det the app reg of the spa in whi to sam .
tha is , alt dis lea is goa - dir in its acq of the inv mod , it is not inh goa - dir in its acq of the for mod .
bec nei dir inv mod nor dis
lea is ent goa - dir , in any giv pro it is imp to con whe it is mor rea - son to acq the inv mod or the for mod in a non - goa - dir
for mod tra ( tri )
fig : num of tri req to tra the con to an rms cri of .
as a fun of the num of tri all to tra the for mod .
eac poi is an ave ove thr run .
man .
thi iss is pro - dep , dep on the nat of the fun bei lea , the nat of the cla of fun tha can be rep by the lea , and the nat of the lea alg .
it is wor not , how , tha the is an inh tra in com bet the inv mod and the for - war mod , due to the fac tha the com is the ide map .
thi tra sug a com bet the cla of pro for whi dir inv mod and dis lea are app .
we bel tha dis lea is mor gen use , how , bec an ina for mod is gen acc whe an ina inv mod is not .
in man cas , it may be pre to lea an ina for mod tha is spe inv at a des set of loc rat tha lea an ina inv mod dir and rel on int .
dyn env : one - ste dyn mod
to ill the app of dis lea to pro in whi the env has sta , we con the pro of lea to con a two - joi rob arm .
con - tro a dyn rob arm inv ndi the app tor to cau the arm to fol des tra .
the pro is dic bec of the non cou bet the mot of the two lin and bec of the cti tor due to the rot coo sys .
the arm tha we con is the two - lin ver of the arm sho pre in fig .
its con at eac poi in tim is des by the joi ang qt and qt , and by the car var xt and xt .
the kin fun xt = gqt tha rel joi ang to car var can be obt by let l equ zer in equ :
xt = " lco + lco + qt
lsi + lsi + qt ;
whe l and l are the lin len .
the sta spa for the arm is the fou - dim spa of pos and vel of the lin .
the ess of rob arm dyn is a map bet the tor app at the joi and the res ang acc of the lin .
thi map is _q , and q dep on the sta var of ang and ang vel .
let q , rep the vec of joi ang , ang vel , and ang acc , res , and let rep the tor .
in the ter of ear sec , q and _q tog con the sta " and is the act . " for con , we tak q to rep the nex - sta " see the dis bel .
to obt an ana of the nex - sta fun in equ , the fol die equ can be der for the ang mot of the lin , usi sta new or lag dyn for cra , :
m qq + cq; _q _q + gq = ;
whe m q is an ine mat , cq; _q is a mat of cor and cen ter , and gq is the vec of tor due to gra .
our int is not in the phy beh the equ per se , but in the fun rel tha the den .
in par , to obt a nex - sta fun , " we rew equ by sol for the acc to yie :
( cid : 123 ) q ( cid : 123 ) cq; _q _q ( cid : 123 ) gq;
( cid : 123 ) q is alw ass cra , .
equ ex - whe the exi of m pre the sta - dep rel bet tor and acc at eac mom in tim : giv the sta var qt and _qt , and giv the tor t , the acc qt can be com by sub in equ .
we ref to thi com as the for dyn of the arm .
fig : the for and inv map ass wit arm dyn .
an inv map bet tor and acc can be obt by in - ter equ in the pro man .
giv the sta var qt and _qt , and giv the acc qt , sub in equ yie the cor - spo tor .
thi alg com is ref to as inv dyn .
it sho be cle tha inv dyn and for dyn are com - tar com : sub of fro equ int equ yie the req ide map .
the rel bet tor , acc , and sta are sum in fig .
it is use to com thi gur wit the kin exa sho in fig .
in bot the kin cas and the dyn cas , the for and inv map tha mus be lea are xed fun of the ins val of the rel var .
in the dyn cas , thi is due to the fac tha the str ter of the dyn equ the ter m , c , and g are exp fun of sta rat tha tim .
the dyn cas can be tho of as a gen of the kin cas in whi add con sta var are nee to ind the map tha mus be lea .
fig is an ins of fig , wit the acc pla the rol of the nex - sta . " in gen , for sys des by die equ , it is con to den the not of nex - sta " in ter of the tim der of one or mor of the sta var e . g . , acc in the cas of arm dyn .
thi den is ent con wit the dev in pre sec ind , if the die equ in equ are sim in dis tim on a com , the the num alg mus com the acc den by equ to con the pos and vel at the cur tim ste int the pos and vel at the nex tim ste .
thi per is ess tha und the loc opt for of dis
bec of the amp of noi in die sig , how , mos rea imp - tat of for dyn mod wou uti pos and vel rat tha acc .
in suc cas the num int of equ wou be inc as par of the for
lea a dyn for mod
a for mod of arm dyn is a net tha lea a pre ^q of the acc q , giv the pos q , the vel _q , and the tor .
the app - pri tea sig for suc a net is the act acc q , yie the fol cos fun :
efq ( cid : 123 ) ^qt q ( cid : 123 ) ^qg :
the pre ^q is a fun of the pos , the vel , the tor and the
^q = ^f q; _q; ; w :
for an app ens of con tra , thi cos fun is min whe a set of wei is fou suc tha ^f ; w bes app the for dyn fun giv by equ .
an imp die bet kin pro and dyn pro is tha it is gen inf to pro arb ran con sig in dy - nam env , bec of con of sta .
for exa , if t in equ is all to be a sta whi - noi sto pro , the the var of qt app inn muc lik a ran wal .
thi yie dat tha is of lit use for lea a mod .
we hav use two clo rel app to ove thi pro .
the rst app is to pro ran equ pos for the arm rat tha ran tor .
tha is , we den a new con sig ut suc tha the aug arm dyn are giv by :
m qq + cq; _q _q + gq = kv _q ( cid : 123 ) _u + kpq ( cid : 123 ) u;
for xed con kp and kv .
the ran con sig u in thi equ act as a vir " equ pos for the arm hog , and the aug dyn can be use to gen tra dat for lea the for mod .
the sec app als uti equ and die fro the rst app onl in the cho of the con sig ut .
rat tha usi ran con , the tar tra the are use as con tha is , the tra uti in the sec pha of lea are als use to tra the for mod .
thi app is equ to usi a sim xed - gai pro - der pd fee con to sta the sys alo a set of ref tra and the gen tra dat .
suc use of an aux fee con is sim to its use in the fee - err lea kaw , et al . , and dir inv mod atk & rei , ; mil , app .
as is dis bel , the sec app has the adv tha it doe not req the for mod to be lea in a sep pha .
a pd con is a dev who out is a wei sum of pos err and vel err .
the pos err and the vel err are mul by xed num gai bef
fig : the com con sys .
com con sys
the com sys for con the arm is sho in fig .
the con sig in thi dia is the tor , whi is the sum of two com :
= f f + f b;
whe f f is a fee tor and f b is the opt fee tor pro by the aux fee con .
the fee con is the lea con - tro tha con tow a mod of the inv dyn of the arm .
in the ear pha of lea , the fee con pro sma ran tor , thu the maj sou of con is pro by the err - cor fee con .
whe the fee con beg to be lea it pro tor tha al - low the sys to fol des tra wit sma err , thu the rol of the fee con is dim .
ind , in the lim whe the fee con con to a per inv mod , the fee tor cau the sys to fol a des tra wit err and the fee con is
as is dis bel , thi sta is not ent acc .
the lea alg its
pro a for of err - cor fee con .
the sil ass no dis .
thu the sys shi aut fro fee - dom con to fee - dom con ove the cou of lea see als atk & rei , ; kaw , et al . , ; mil ,
the are two err sig uti in lea inv dyn : the pre err q ( cid : 123 ) ^q and the per err q ( cid : 123 ) q .
the pre err is use to tra the for mod as dis in the pre sec .
onc the for mod is at lea par lea , the per err can be use in tra the inv mod .
the err is pro bac thr the for mod and dow int the fee con whe the wei are cha .
thi pro min the dis cos fun :
efq ( cid : 123 ) qt q ( cid : 123 ) qg :
the arm was mod usi rig bod dyn ass the mas to be uni dis alo the lin .
the lin wer mod as thi cyl .
det on the phy con are pro in app c .
the sim of the for dyn of the arm was car out usi a fou - ord run - kut alg wit a sam fre of hz .
the con sig pro by the net wer sam at hz .
sta fee con net wer use in all of the sim - tio .
the wer two fee net in eac sim con and a for mod ove con as sho in fig wit the box lab arm " bei rep by a for mod .
bot the con and the for mod wer fee net wit a sin lay of log hid uni .
in all of the sim , the sta var , tor , and acc wer rep - sen dir as rea - val act in the net .
det of the net use in the sim are pro in app b .
in all but the nal sim rep bel , the lea of the for mod and the lea of an inv mod wer car out in sep pha .
the for mod was lea in an ini pha by usi a ran pro to dri the aug dyn giv in equ .
the ran pro was a whi noi pos sig cho uni wit the wor sho in fig .
the lea of the for mod was ter whe the lte rms pre err rea : rad .
as not abo , it is als pos to inc the num int of ^q as par of the for mod and lea a map who out is the pre nex - sta ^qn ^_q .
thi app may be pre for sys in whi die of noi sig is a con .
fig : the wor the gre reg and fou tar pat .
the tra mov fro lef to rig alo the pat sho .
fig : per on one of the fou lea tra .
a bef lea .
b aft lea tri .
lea wit an aux fee con
aft lea the for mod , the sys lea to con the arm alo the fou pat sho in fig .
the tar tra wer min jer tra of one sec dur eac .
an aux pro - der pd fee con was use , wit pos gai of : n m=r and vel gai of : n m s=r .
fig sho the per on a par tra bef lea wit the pd con alo and dur the th lea tri .
the cor wav are sho in fig and fig .
the mid gra in the gur sho the fee tor das lin and the fee tor sol lin .
as can be see , in the ear pha of lea the tor are
gen pri by the fee con and in lat pha the tor are gen pri by the fee con .
lea wit an aux fee con
an int con of the goa - dir nat of the for mod app is tha it is pos to lea an inv dyn mod wit usi an aux fee con .
to see why thi is the cas , rst not tha min jer ref tra and oth smo " ref tra cha slo in tim .
thi imp tha suc tim ste are ess rep lea tri on the sam inp vec thu , the con con rap to a sol " for a loc reg of sta spa .
as the tra evo , the sol tra the inp thu , the con pro rea goo tor pri to any lea . " put ano way , the dis lea app is its a for of err - cor fee con in the par spa of the con .
suc err cor mus eve giv way to con of the wei if the sys is to lea an inv mod non , it is a use fea of the alg tha it ten to sta the arm dur lea .
thi beh is dem by the sim sho in fig .
the gur sho per on the rst lea tri as a fun of the lea rat .
the res dem tha cha the lea rat ess cha the gai of the err - cor beh of the alg .
whe the lea rat is set to . , the sys pro nea per per on the rst lea tri .
thi fea of the alg mak it imp to cla the mea of the lea cur obt wit the dis lea app .
fig sho two suc lea cur .
the low cur is the rms err tha is obt wit a lea rat of . .
the upp cur is the rms err tha is obt whe the lea rat is tem set to zer aft eac lea tri .
set the lea rat to zer all the eec of lea to be eva sep fro the err - cor beh .
the cur cle rev tha on the ear tri the mai con to per is err cor rat tha lea .
com for dyn and for kin
com the for dyn mod of thi sec wit the for kin mod of the pre sec mak it pos to tra the con usi car - sia tar tra .
giv tha the dyn mod and the kin mod can be lea in par , the is ess no per dec ass wit usi the com sys .
in our sim , we nd tha lea tim inc by app eig per whe usi car tar rat tha joi ang tar .
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
fig : per on the rst lea tri as a fun of the lea rat .
mu = 123 mu = 123
fig : rms err for zer and non - zer lea rat .
lea the for mod and the con sim
the dis lea app inv usi a for mod to tra the con thu , lea of the for mod mus pre the lea of the con .
it is not nec , how , to lea the for mod ove the ent sta spa bef lea the con loc for mod is gen suc .
mor , as we hav dis , the dis lea app doe not req an exa for mod for mod oft suc .
the two fac , in con wit the use of smo ref tra , imp tha it sho be pos to lea the for mod and the con sim .
an aux fee con is nee to sta the sys ini how , onc the for mod beg to be lea , the lea alg its ten to sta the sys .
mor , as the con beg to be lea , the err dec and the eec of the fee con dim aut .
thu the sys boo its tow an inv mod .
the sim sho in fig dem the fea of thi app .
fig : lea the for mod and the con sim .
a per - for bef lea on two of the tar tra .
b per aft
usi the sam arc as in pre exp the sys lea fou tar tra sta wit sma ran wei in bot the con and the for mod .
on eac tim ste two pas of the bac alg wer req pas wit the pre err q ( cid : 123 ) ^q to cha the wei of the for mod , and a sec pas wit the per err q ( cid : 123 ) q to cha the wei of the con .
an aux pro - der pd fee con was use , wit pos gai of : n m=r and vel gai of : n m s=r .
as sho in the gur , the sys con to an acc lev of per aft lea tri .
alt the sim lea pro req mor pre of the tar tra to ach a lev of per com to tha of the two - pha lea pro , the sim pro is in fac mor eci tha two - pha lea bec it dis wit the ini pha of lea the for mod .
thi adv mus be wei aga cer dis in par , the pos of ins is enh bec of the err in the gra obt fro the par - lea for mod .
in pra we nd tha it is oft nec to use sma ste siz in the sim lea app tha in the two - pha lea app .
pre exp hav als sho tha is wor to cho spe rep tha enh the spe wit whi the for mod con .
thi can be don sep for the sta var inp and the tor inp .
dyn env : sim mod
in the pre sec we dem how the tem com of the dis - tal sup lea pro can be add by kno of a set of sta var for the env .
ass pri kno of a set of sta var is tan to ass tha the lea has pri kno of the max del bet the tim at whi an act is iss and the tim at whi an eec is obs in the sen vec .
in the cur sec we pre pre res tha aim to bro the sco of the dis lea app to add pro in whi the max del is not kno see als wer , .
a sim exa of suc a pro is one in whi a rob arm is req to be in a cer con at tim t , whe t is unk , and whe the tra in the ope int fro to t is unc .
one app to sol suc pro is to lea a one - ste for mod of the arm dyn and the to use bac - in - tim in a rec net tha inc the for mod and a con jor , ; kaw , .
in man pro inv del tem con , how , it is nei fea nor des to lea a dyn for mod of the env , eit bec the env is too com or bec sol the tas at han doe not req kno of the evo of all of the sta var .
con for exa the pro of pre the hei of a spl of wat whe sto of var siz are dro int a pon .
it is unl tha a use one - ste dyn mod cou be lea for the uid dyn of the pon .
mor , if the con pro is to pro spl of par des hei , it may not be nec to mod uid dyn in det .
a sim for mod tha pre an int qua hei as a fun of the siz of the sto suc .
jor and jac ill thi app by usi dis lea to sol the pro of lea to bal an inv pen on a mov car .
thi pro is gen pos as an avo con pro in whi the onl cor inf pro by the env is a sig to ind tha fai has occ bar , sut , & and , .
the del bet act for app to the car and the fai sig is unk and ind can be arb lar .
in the spi of the for dis , jor and jac als ass tha it is und to mod the dyn of the car - pol sys thu , the con can be lea by usi bac - in - tim in a rec net tha inc a one - ste dyn mod of the pla .
a uni tra may be spe by enf add con on the tem evo - lut of the act how , the onl exp tar inf is ass to be tha pro at the nal tim ste .
in kaw wor , bac - in - tim is imp in a spa - unr net and the gra are use to cha act rat tha wei how , the ide of usi a one - ste for dyn mod is the sam .
see als ngu & wid for an app to a kin pro .
the app ado by jor and jac inv lea a for mod who out is an int qua est of the inv of the tim unt fai .
thi est is lea usi tem die tec sut , .
at tim ste on whi fai occ , the tar val for the for mod is uni :
et = ( cid : 123 ) ^zt
whe ^zt is the out of the for mod , and et is the err ter use to cha the wei .
on all oth tim ste , the fol tem die err ter is use :
+ ^z ( cid : 123 ) t +
whi yie an inc ari ser alo any tra tha lea to fai .
onc lea , the out of the for mod is use to pro a gra for lea the con .
in par , bec the des out of bal the pol can be des as the goa of max the tim unt fai , the alg lea the con by usi zer min the out of the for mod as the dis err sig .
the for mod use by jor and jac die in an imp way fro the oth for mod des in thi pap .
bec the tim - unt - fai dep on fut act of the con , the map tha the for mod mus lea dep not onl on xed pro of the env but als on the con .
whe the con is cha by the lea alg , the map tha the for mod mus lea als cha .
thu the for mod mus be upd con dur the lea of the con .
in gen , for pro in whi the for mod lea to est an int of the clo - loo dyn , the lea of the for mod and the con mus pro
tem die tec pro the dis lea app wit en - han fun .
the mak it pos to lea to mak lon - ter pre and the adj con on the bas on qua tha are dis in tim .
the can als be use to lea mul - ste for mod .
in con wit bac - in - tim , the pro a exi set of tec for lea ac - tio on the bas of tem - ext con .
in thi pap we hav arg tha the sup lea par is bro tha is com ass .
the dis sup lea fra ext sup - vis lea to pro in whi des val are ava onl for the dis
thi tec can be con as an exa of usi sup lea alg to sol
a rei lea pro see bel .
con of a lea act and not for the act the .
thi is a sig - nic wea of the cla not of the tea " in the sup lea in thi sec we pro fur dis of the cla of pro tha can be tre wit the dis sup lea fra .
we dis pos sou of tra dat and we con dis sup lea wit
how is tra dat obt ?
to pro sup for our arg tha dis sup lea is mor rea tha cla sup lea it is nec to con pos sou of tra dat for dis sup lea .
we dis two suc sou , whi we ref to as imi and env .
one of the mos com way for hum to acq ski is thr imi .
ski suc as dan or ath are oft lea by obs ano per per the ski and att to rep the beh .
alt in som cas a tea may be ava to sug par pat of lim mot , suc dir ins doe not app to be a nec com of ski acq .
a cas in poi is spe acq acq spe by hea spe sou , not by rec ins on how to mov the art .
our con of a dis sup lea pro inv a set of int - tio , des out tra pai .
lea by imi cle mak des out ava to the lea .
wit reg to int , the are thr pos - bil .
fir , the lea may kno or be abl to inf the int of the per ser as a mod .
alt , an idi int enc of int is via as lon as the enc is con .
for exa , a chi acq spe may hav an int to dri , may obs ano per obt wat by utt the for wat , " and may uti the aco rep of wat " as a dis tar for lea the art mov for exp a des to dri , eve tho the oth per use the wat to dou a re .
fin , whe the lea is acq an inv mod , as in the sim rep in thi pap , the int is obv ava bec it is the sam as des out .
our con of dis sup lea pro as a set of tra pai is of cou an abs tha mus be ela whe dea wit com tas .
in a com tas suc as dan , it is pre not eas to det the cho of sen dat to be use as dis tar for the lea pro .
ind , the lea may alt the cho of tar onc he or she has ach a mod of ski .
the lea may als nee to dec the tas int sim tas and to set int goa .
we sus tha the rol of ext tea " is to hel wit the rep iss rat tha to pro pro tar dir to the
ano sou of dat for the dis sup lea par is a pro tha we ref to as env . " env is a gen pro of con
abs goa int the cor sen rea , wit reg to the act nee to ach the goa .
env inv dec wha it wou loo lik " or fee lik " to per som tas .
thi pro pre inv gen ded and ind rea abi as wel as exp wit sim tas .
the poi tha we wan to emp is tha env nee not ref to the act tha are nee to act car out a tas tha is the pro sol by the dis lea pro .
com wit rei lea
an alt app to sol the cla of pro tha we hav dis in thi pap is to use rei lea alg bar , ; sut , .
rei lea alg are bas on the ass tha the env - men pro an eva of the act pro by the lea .
bec the eva can be an arb fun , the app is in pri app to the gen pro of lea on the bas of dis sig .
rei lea alg wor by upd the pro of emi - tin par act .
the upd pro is bas on the eva rec fro the env .
if the eva of an act is fav the the pro - ity ass wit tha act is inc and the pro ass wit all oth act are dec .
con , if the eva is unf , the the pro of the giv act is dec and the pro ass wit all oth act are inc .
the cha fea of rei lea alg die in imp way fro the cor fea of sup lea alg .
sup lea alg are bas on the exi of a sig err vec rat tha an eva .
the sig err vec is gen , alt not alw , obt by com the act out vec to a tar vec .
if the sig err vec is sma , cor to a fav eva , the alg ini no cha .
if the sig err vec is lar , cor to an unf eva , the alg cor the cur act in fav of a par alt act .
sup lea alg do not sim inc the pro of all alt act rat , the cho par alt bas on the dir of the sig err vec .
it is imp to dis bet lea par and lea alg - rit .
bec the sam lea alg can oft be uti in a var of lea par , a fai to dis bet par and alg can lea to mis .
thi is par tru of rei lea tas and sup lea tas bec of the clo rel bet eva sig and sig err vec .
a sig err vec can alw be con int an eva sig any bou mon fun of the nor of the sig
as poi out by bar , sut & and , thi dis bet rei lea and sup lea is sig onl if the lea has a rep of mor tha two
err vec suc thu , rei lea alg can alw be use for sup lea pro .
con , an eva sig can alw be con int a sig err vec usi the mac tha we hav dis see als mun , ; thu , sup lea alg can alw be use for rei lea pro .
the den of a lea par , how , has mor to do wit the man in whi a pro is nat pos tha wit the alg use to sol the pro .
in the cas of the bas pla , for exa , ass tha the env pro dir inf suc as too far to the lef , " too lon , " or too sho , " is ver die fro ass tha the env pro eva inf of the for goo , " bet , " or bes " .
fur , lea alg die in alg com whe app acr par : usi a rei lea alg to sol a su - per lea pro is lik to be ine bec suc alg do not tak adv of dir inf .
con , usi sup lea al - gor to sol rei lea pro is lik to be ine bec of the ext mac tha is req to ind a sig err vec .
in sum , alt it has bee sug tha the die bet rei - for lea and sup lea is the lat rel on a tea , " we fee tha thi arg is mis .
the dis bet the sup lea par and the rei lea par lie in the int of env - ron fee as an err sig or as an eva sig , not the coo sys in whi suc sig are pro .
man pro inv dis cre ass may be bet con of as sup lea pro rat tha rei lea pro if the dis fee sig can be int as a per err .
the are a num of dic wit the cla dis bet uns - vis , " rei , " and sup " lea .
sup lea is gen sai to be dep on a tea " to pro tar val for the out uni of a net .
thi is vie as a lim bec in man dom the is no suc tea .
nev , the env oft doe pro sen inf abo the con of an act whi can be emp in mak int mod - ica jus as if a tea had pro the inf to the lea dir .
the ide is tha the lea rst acq an int mod tha all pre of the con of act .
the int mod can be use as a mec for tra dis sen inf abo the con of act int pro inf for mak int mod .
thi two - pha pro ext the sco of the sup lea par to inc a bro ran of pro in whi act are tra by an unk dyn pro bef bei com to des out .
we rst ill thi app in the cas of lea an inv mod of a sim sta " env .
we sho tha our met of uti a for mod of the env has a num of imp adv ove the alt met of bui the inv mod dir .
the adv are esp app in cas whe the is no uni inv mod .
we als sho tha thi ide can be ext use to the cas of a dyn env .
in thi cas , we sim ela bot the for mod and the lea i . e . , con so the tak int acc the cur sta of the env .
fin , we sho how thi app can be com wit tem die tec to bui a sys cap of lea fro sen fee tha is sub to an unk del .
we als sug tha com wor in the stu of lea can be fac - tat by mak a dis bet lea alg and lea par .
a var of lea alg can oft be app to a par ins of a lea par thu , it is imp to cha not onl the par asp of any giv lea pro , suc as the nat of the int bet the lea and the env and the nat of the qua to be opt , but als the tra in alg com tha ari whe die cla of lea alg are app to the pro .
fur res is nee to del the nat cla at the lev of par and alg and to cla the rel bet lev .
we bel tha suc res wil beg to pro - vid a the bas for mak dis bet can hyp in the emp stu of hum lea .
