123 abs ( max 123 wor )
w e pre a tre - str arc for sup lea .
ile sta mod und the arc is a hie mix mod in whi bot the mix coe and the mix com are gen lin mod ( gui ' s ) .
lea is tre as a max lik pro in par , we pre an exp - max ( em alg for adj the par of the arc .
we als dev an on - lin lea alg in whi the par are upd inc .
com sim res are pre in the rob dy nam dom .
123 sub ter
123 of pag
pri cod
123 sec cla
sec cla
of thi pag
sec cla
uim of
dti qua ins ' ted 123
mas ins of tec
art int lab
cen for bio and com lea
dep of bra and cog sci
mem no .
123 c . b . c . l .
mem no
aug 123 , 123
hie mix of exp and the em
mic i .
jor and rob a .
jac
we pre a tre - str arc for sup lea .
the sta mod und the arc is a hie mix mod in whi bot the mix coe and the mix com - pon are gen lin mod ( gli ' s ) .
lea is tre as a max lik pro in par , we pre an exp - max ( em ) alg for adj the par of the arc .
we als dev an on - lin lea alg in whi the par are upd inc .
com sim res are pre in the rob dyn dom .
cop @ mas ins of tec , 123
thi rep des res don at the dep .
of bra and cog sci , the cen for bio and com lea , and the art int lab of the mas ins of tec .
sup for cbc is pro in par by a gra fro the nsf ( asc - 123 ) .
sup for the lab ' s art int res is pro in par by the adv res pro age of the dep .
of def .
the aut wer sup by a gra fro the mcd - pew fou , by a gra fro atr hum inf pro res lab , by a gra fro sie cor , by by gra iri - 123 fro the nat sci fou , by gra n12 - 123 - j - 123 fro the off of nav res , and by nsf gra ecs - 123 to sup an ini in int con at mit .
mic 123
jor is a nsf pre you inv .
the pri of div - and - con is a pri wit wid app thr app mat .
div - and - con alg att a com pro by div it int sim pro who sol can be com to yie a sol to the com pro .
thi app can oft lea to sim .
ele and eff alg .
in thi pap we exp a par app of the div - and - con pri to the pro of lea fro exa .
we des a net arc and a lea alg for the arc .
bot of whi are ins by the phi of div - and - con .
in the sta lit and in the mac lea lit , div - and - con ap - pro hav bec inc pop .
the car alg of bre , fri .
123 - she , and sto ( 123 ) , the mar alg of fri ( 123 ) , and the id1 alg of qui ( 123 ) are wel - kno exa .
the alg fit sur to dat by exp div the inp spa int a nes seq of reg , and by fit sim sur ( e . g . , con fun ) wit the reg .
the hav con tim tha are oft ord of mag fas tha gra - bas neu net alg .
alt div - and - con alg hav muc to rec the , one sho be con abo the sta con of div the inp spa .
div the dat can hav fav con for the bia of an est , but it gen inc the var .
con lin reg , for exa , in whi the var of the est of the slo and int dep qua on the spr of dat on the x - axi .
the poi tha are the mos per in the inp spa are tho tha hav the max eff in dec the var of the par est .
the for con sug tha div - and - con alg gen ten to be var - inc alg .
thi is ind the cas and is par pro in hig - dim spa whe dat bec exc spa ( sco , 123 ) .
one res to thi dil - tha ado by car , mar , and id1 , and als ado her - is to uti pie con or pie lin fun .
the fun min var at a cos of inc bia .
we als mak use of a sec var - dec dev a dev fam in the neu net lit .
we mak use of " sof " spl of dat ( bri , 123 now .
123 : wah , gu , wan , k cha , 123 ) , all dat to lie sim in mul reg .
thi app all the par in one reg to be inf by dat in nei reg .
car , mar , and id1 rel on " har " spl , whi , as we rem abo , hav par sev eff on var .
by all sof spl the sev eff of lop off dis dat can be ame .
we als att to min the bia tha is inc by usi pie lin fun , by all the spl to be for alo hyp at arb ori in the inp spa .
thi les the bia due to hig - ord int amo the inp and all the alg to be ins to the par cho of coo use to enc the dat ( an imp ove met suc as mar and id1 , whi are
the wor tha we des her mak con wit a .
num of bra of sta the .
fir , as in our ear wor ( jac , jor , now , & , hin , 123 ) , we for the lea pro as a mix est pro ( cf .
che , et al , 123 dud &k : har .
123 now .
123 red & wal , 123 tit , smi , & mak , 123 ) .
we sho tha the alg tha is gen emp for the uns lea of mix ( em ) alg of dem , lai and rub ( 123 ) - can als be exp for sup lea .
sec .
we uti gen lin mod ( gli ) the ( mcc & nel , 123 ) to pro the bas sta str oea
for the com of the arc .
in par .
the " sof spl " ref to abo are mod as mul log mod - a spe for of gli .
we als sho tha the alg dev for fit gli ' s - the ite rew lea squ ( irl ) alg - can be use emp in our mod , in par as the m ste of the em alg .
fin .
we sho tha the ide can be dev in a rec man , yie a tre - str app to est tha is rem of car , mar .
and id1
the rem of the pap pro as fol .
we fir int the hie mix - of - exp arc and pre the lik fun for the arc .
aft des a gra des alg , we dev a mor pow lea alg for the arc tha is a spe cas of the gen exp - max ( em ) fra of dem .
lai and rub ( 123 ) .
we als des a lea - squ ver of thi alg tha lea to a par eff imp .
bot of the lat alg are bat lea alg .
in the fin sec , we pre an on - lin ver of the lea - squ alg tha in pra app to be the mos eff of the alg tha we hav stu .
hie mix of exp
the alg tha we dis in thi pap are sup lea alg .
we exp add the cas of reg , in whi the inp vec are ele of r ' and the out vec are ele of rn .
we als con cla mod and cou mod in whi the out are int - val .
the dat are ass to for a cou set of pai obs a ' = ( ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) ) .
in the cas of the bat alg dis bel , thi set is ass to be fin in the cas of the on - lin alg , the set may be inf .
we pro to sol non sup lea pro by div the inp spa int a nes set of reg and fit sim sur to the dat tha fal in the reg .
the reg hav " sof " bou , mea tha dat poi may lie sim in mul reg .
the bou bet reg are the sim par sur tha are adj by the lea alg .
the hie mix - of - exp ( hme ) arc is sho in fig 123 the ar - chi is a tre in whi the gat net sit at the non of the tre .
the net rec the vec x as inp and pro sca out tha are a par of uni at eac poi in the inp , spa .
the exp net sit at the lea of the tre .
eac exp pro an out vec lij for eac inp vec .
the out vec pro up the tre , bei ble by the gat net out .
all of the exp net in the tre are lin wit a sin out non .
we wil ref to suc a net as " gen lin , " bor the ter fro sta ( mcc & nel , 123 ) .
exp net ( i , j ) pro its out / pi , as a gen lin fun of the inp x :
whe ( tij is a wei mat and f is a fix con non .
the vec x is ass to inc a fix com of one to all for an int ter .
l ( cid : 123 ) ij = f ( uij ) ,
for reg pro , f ( . ) is gen cho to be the ide fun ( i . e . , the ex - per are lin ) .
for bin cla pro , f ( . ) is gen tak to be the log fun , in whi cas the exp out are int as the log odd of " suc " und a
' to sim the pre , we res our to a two - lev hie thr the pap .
all of the alg tha we des , how , gen rea to hie of arb dep .
see jor and xu ( 123 ) for a rec for tha han arb hie .
fig 123 : a two - lev hie mix of exp .
to for a dee tre , eac exp is exp rec int a gat net and a set of sub - exp .
ber pro mod ( see bel ) .
oth mod ( e . g . , mul cla , cou , rat est and sur est ) are han by mak oth cho for f ( - ) .
the mod are smo pie ana of the cor gli mod ( cf .
mcc &
the gat net are als gen lin .
def int var & , as fol :
whe vi is a wei vec .
the the ith out of the top - lev gat net is the " sof " fun of the & ( bri , 123 mcc & nel , 123 ) :
123 = ( cid : 123 ) k
not tha the gi are pos and sum to one for eac x .
the can be int as pro a " sof " par of the inp spa .
sim , the gat net at low lev are als gen lin sys .
def
is the out of the jth uni in the ith gat net at the sec lev of the arc .
onc aga , the gjl are pos and sum to one for eac x .
the can be int as pro a nes " sof " par of the inp spa wit the par pro by the hig - lev gat net .
the out vec at eac non of the tre is the wei out of the exp bel tha non .
tha is , the out at the ith non in the sec lay of the two - lev tre is :
and the out at the top lev of the tre is :
p = e12 ~ i
not tha bot the g ' s and the t ' s dep on the inp x , thu the tot out is a non fun of the inp .
giv the def of the exp net and the gat net , the reg sur def by the hie is a pie ble of the reg sur def by the exp .
the gat net pro a nes , " sof " par of the inp spa and the exp net pro loc reg sur wit the par .
the is ove bet nei - bor reg .
to und the nat of the ove , con a one - lev hie wit two exp net .
in thi cas , the gat net has two out , g , and g12
the gat out g , is giv by :
~ ef + e12
whi is a log rid fun who ori is det by the dir of the vec
the gat out g12 is equ to 123 - gi .
for a giv x , the tot out i is the con com 123 , 123 + 123 , thi is a wei ave of the exp .
whe the wei are det by the val of the rid fun .
alo the rid , g , = g12 = , and bot exp con equ .
awa fro the rid , one exp or the oth dom .
the amo of smo acr the rid is det by the mag of the vec v 123 - v 123 .
if v 123 - v12 is lar , the the rid fun bec a sha spl and the wei out of the exp bec pie ( gen ) lin .
if v 123 - vi is sma , the eac exp con to a sig deg on eac sid of the rid .
the smo the pie map .
in the lim of a zer dif vec , gi = 123 = for all x , and the tot out is the sam fix ave of the exp on bot sid of the fic " spl . "
in gen , a giv gat net ind a smo pla par of the inp spa .
low - lev gat net ind a par wit the par ind by hig - lev gat net .
the wei in a giv gat net det the amo of smo
acr the par at tha par lev of res : lar wei vec imp sha cha in the reg sur acr a rid and sma wei imp a smo sur .
in the lim of zer wei in all gat net , the ent hie red to a fix ave ( a lin sys in the cas of reg ) .
a pro mod
the hie can be giv a pro int .
we sup tha the mec by whi dat are gen by the env inv a nes seq of dec tha ter in a reg pro tha map x to y .
the dec are mod as mul ran var .
tha is , for eac x , we int the val gi ( x , v ) as the mul pro ass wit the fir dec and the gjl ( x , v% ) as the ( con ) mul - mia pro ass wit the sec dec , whe the sup " 123 " ref to the " tru " val of the par .
the dec for a dec tre .
we use a sta mod to mod thi dec tre in par , our cho of par ( cf .
equ 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 ) cor to a mul leg pro mod at eac non of the tre ( see app 123 ) .
a mul log mod is a spe cas of a gli tha is com use for , . sof " mul cla ( mcc & nel , 123 ) .
und the mul log mod , we int the gat net as mod the inp - dep , mul pro ass wit dec at par lev of res in a tre - str mod of the
onc a par seq of dec has bee mad , res in a cho of reg pro ( ij ) , out y is ass to be gen acc to the fol sta mod .
fir , a lin pre nij is for :
the exp val of y is obt by pas the lin pre thr the lin fun
the out y is the cho fro a pro den p , wit mea ( cid : 123 ) a and " dis " par 123
we den the den of y as :
whe the par vec 123 inc the wei u and the dis par 123 :
we ass the den p to be a mem of the exp fam of den ( mcc & nel , 123 ) .
the int of the dis par dep on the par cho of den .
for exa , in the cas of the n - dim gau , the dis par is the cov mat 123
123 we uti the neu net con in def lin .
in gli the , the con is tha .
the lin
fun rel r to p; thu , q = h ( p ) , whe h is equ to our f - 123
' not all exp fam den hav a dis par in par , the ber den dis
bel has no dis par .
giv the ass , the tot pro of gen y fro x is the mix of the pro of gen y fro eac of the com den , whe the mix pro are mul pro :
p ( ylx , 123 ) = - gi ( x , v ) egj ( x , v ) p ( yjx , 123 ) ,
not tha 123 inc the exp net par 123 as wel as the gat net par - ter v12 and v12
not als tha we hav exp ind the dep of the pro gi and gjl on the inp x and on the par .
in the rem of the pap we dro the exp ref to the inp and the par to sim the not :
p ( ylx , 123 ) = - i
we als uti equ 123 wit the sup to ref to the pro mod def by a par hme arc , irr of any ref to a " tru " mod .
in the cas of reg the pro com of the mod is gen ass to be gau .
ass ide cov mat of the for a12 for eac of the exp yie the fol hie pro mod :
p ( y x , 123 ) = ( 123 ) n / 123 n
exa ( bin cla )
in bin cla pro the out y is a dis ran var hav pos out of " fai " and " suc . " the pro com of the mod is gen ass to be the ber dis ( cox , 123 ) .
in thi cas , the mea pii is the con - tio pro of cla the inp as " suc . " the res hie pro mod is a mix of ber den :
p ( ylx , 123 ) = f g , ( cid : 123 ) gjl ( cid : 123 ) ( 123 -
in dev the lea alg to be pre in the rem of the pap , it wil pro use to def pos pro ass wit the nod of the tre .
the ter " pos " and " pri " hav mea in thi con dur the tra of the sys .
we ref to the pro gi and gil as pri pro , bec the are com bas onl on the inp x , wit kno of the cor tar out y .
a pos pro is def onc bot the inp and the tar out are kno .
usi bay ' rul , we def the pos pro at the nod of the tre as fol :
hi= gi ej gjl ( y )
ei gi ej gjl ( )
hji y . jg1 , p ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( y ) .
we wil als fin it use to def the joi pos pro hij , the pro of hi and
j gj1 ipi ( y )
h i gi
thi qua is the pro tha exp net ( i , j ) can be con to hav gen the dat , bas on kno of bot the inp and the out .
onc aga , we emp tha all of the qua are con on the inp x .
in dee tre , the pos pro ass wit an exp net is sim the pro of the con pos pro alo the pat fro the roo of the tre to
the lik and a gra des lea alg
jor and jac ( 123 ) pre a gra des lea alg for the hie arc .
the alg was bas on ear wor by jac , jor , now , and hin ( 123 ) , who tre the pro of lea in mix - of - exp arc as a max lik est pro .
the log lik of a dat set a ' = ( ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) ) jn is obt by tak the log of the pro of n den of the for of equ 123 , whi yie the fol log lik :
123 ( 123 a ' ) =
i n ' 123 ) e
let us ass tha the pro den p is gau wit an ide cov mat and tha the lin fun is the ide .
in thi cas , by dif 123 ( e; a ' ) wit res to the par , we obt the fol gra des lea rul for the wei mat
all = p l h ~ t ) h ( t ) ( y ( t ) -
whe p is a lea rat .
the gra des lea rul for the ith wei vec in the top - lev gat net is giv by :
avi = p - ' ( h ) - g12 ) ) x ( i ) ,
and the gra des rul for the jth wei vec in the i ' h low - lev gat net is
upd can als be obt for cov mat ( jor & jac , 123 ) .
the alg giv by equ 123 , 123 , and 123 is a bat lea alg .
the cor - spo on - lin alg is obt by sim dro the sum sig and upd the par aft eac sti pre .
thu , for exa ,
is the sto upd rul for the wei in the ( i , j ) th exp net bas on the tth
+ pht ) ht ) t ( y ( t ) - pi ) ) xt ) t ( 123 )
the em alg
in the fol sec we dev a lea alg for the hme arc bas on the exp - max ( em ) fra of dem , lai , and rub ( 123 ) .
we der an em alg for the arc tha con of the ite sol of a cou set of ite - rew lea - squ pro .
the em alg is a gen tec for max lik est .
in pra em has bee app alm exc to uns lea pro .
thi is tru of the neu net lit and mac lea lit , in whi em has app in the con of clu ( che , et al .
123 now , 123 ) and den est ( spe , 123 ) , as wel as the sta lit .
in whi app inc mis dat pro ( lit & , rub , 123 ) .
mix den est ( red & wal , 123 ) , and fac ana ( dem , lai .
& rub .
123 ) .
ano uns lea app is the lea pro for hid mar mod , for whi the bau - wel ree for are a spe cas of em .
the is not in the em fra tha pre its app to reg or cla pro how , suc app hav bee few
em is an ite app to max lik est .
eac ite of an em alg is com of two ste : an est ( e ) ste and a max ( m ) ste .
the m ste inv the max of a lik fun tha is red in eac ite - tio by the e ste .
if the alg sim inc the fun dur the m ste , rat tha max the fun , the the alg is ref to as a gen em ( gem ) alg .
the bol lea alg ( hin & sej , 123 ) is a neu net exa of a gem alg .
gem alg are oft sig slo to con tha
an app of em gen beg wit the obs tha the opt of the lik fun 123 ( 123 a ' ) wou be sim if onl a set of add var , cal " mis - ing " or - hid " var , wer kno .
in thi con , we ref to the obs dat a ' as the " inc dat " and pos a " com dat " set y tha inc the mis var z .
we spe a pro mod tha lin the fic mis var to the act dat : p ( y .
zlx , 123 ) .
the log of the den p def the " com - dat lik , " l , ( 123 y ) .
the ori lik , 123 ( 123 a ' ) , is ref to in thi con as the " inc - dat lik . " it is the rel bet the two lik fun tha mot the em alg .
not tha the com - dat lik is a ran var , bec the mis var z are in fac unk .
an em alg fir fin the exp val of the com - dat lik , giv the obs dat and the cur mod .
thi is the e ste :
q ( 123 , 123 ( pj ) = e ( 123 ( o; y ) i x ) ,
whe 123 ( p ) is the val of the par at the pth ite and the exp is tak wit res to 123 ( p ) .
thi ste yie a det fun q .
the m ste max thi fun wit res to 123 to fin the new par est o ( p+ ' ) :
123 ( p+l ) = arg ! q ( o , o ( p ) ) .
the e ste is the rep to yie an imp est of the com lik and the
" 123 exc is the " swi reg " mod of qua and ram ( 123 ) .
for fur dis of
swi reg , see jor and xu ( 123 ) .
an ite ste of em cho a par val tha inc the val of q , the exp - tat of the com lik .
wha is the eff of suc a ste on the inc lik ? dem , et al .
pro tha an inc in q imp an inc in the inc lik :
123 ( 123 ( p+i ) ; x ) _ 123 ( 123 ( p ) ; xt ) .
equ obt onl at the sta poi of i ( wu , 123 ) .
thu the lik i inc mon alo the seq of par est gen by an em alg .
in pra thi imp con to a loc max .
app em to the hme arc
to dev an em alg for the hme arc , we mus def app " mis dat " so as to sim the lik fun .
we def ind var zi and z .
123 , suc tha one and onl one of the zi is equ to one , and one and onl one of the z ~ ji is equ to one .
the ind var hav an int as the lab tha cor to the dec in the pro mod .
we als def the ind var zij , whi is the pro of zi and zjl .
thi var has an int as the lab tha spe the exp ( the reg pro ) in the pro mod .
if the lab zi , zjl and zij wer kno , the the max lik pro wou dec int a sep set of reg pro for eac exp net and a sep set of mul cla pro for the gat net .
the pro wou be sol ind of eac oth , yie a rap one - pas lea alg .
of cou , the mis var are not kno , but we can spe a pro mod tha lin the to the obs dat .
thi pro mod can be wri in ter of the zj , as fol :
j - r j " g t )
g pij ( y ( ) ) zi ,
usi the fac tha z 123 ) is an ind var .
tak the log of thi pro mod yie the fol com - dat lik :
l , ( e; y ) =
j y z ) nfg ~ t ( ) gpj ~ y ( t ) )
ziv ln gij ij ( cid : 123 ) #i
, , ( + in p , 123 ( y ( t ) ) .
not the rel of the com - dat lik in equ 123 to the inc - dat lik in equ 123
the use of the ind var zij has all the log to be bro ins the sum sig , sub sim the max pro .
we now def the e ste of the em alg by tak the exp of the com - dat
b ( l ) ng1 + lng + in pa1 ( y ( t ) ) ) ,
whe we hav use the fac tha :
- 123 _x ( t ) _ ( p ) ) p ( t
p y ( t ) x ( t ) o .
. ( p ) ) g y , ( t ) , (
j , ( olp w oix ~ lvt ) o ( p ) )
( not als tha e ( zpt ) ix )
123 h12 t ) and e ( z ( jia ' ) = h ( wt )
the m ste req max q ( 123 , 123 ( p ) ) wit res to the exp net par and the gat net par .
exa equ 123 , we see tha the exp nct par inf the q fun onl thr the ter ht ) in pij ( y ( t ) ) , and the gat net par inf the q fun onl thr the tef 123 ) in gi ) and 123 thu the m ste red to the fol sep max pro :
arg max e 123 ) in pij ( y ( t ) ) ,
vp+ = arg
123 ) in g ~ t )
vp+ ) = arg .
123 e 123 ) in
eac of the max pro are the max lik pro .
equ - tio 123 is sim the gen for of a wei max lik pro in the pro den p ~ j .
giv our par of pij , the log lik in equ 123 is a wei log lik for a gli .
an eff alg kno as ite rew lea - squ ( irl ) is ava to sol the max lik pro for suc mod ( mcc & nel , 123 ) .
we dis irl in app a .
equ 123 inv max the cro - ent bet the pos pro h ( ) and the pri pro g12 .
thi cro - ent is the log lik ass wit a mul - nom log pro mod in whi the h ( t ) act as the out obs ( see app b ) .
thu the max in equ 123 is als a max lik pro for a gli and can be sol usi irl .
the sam is tru of equ 123 , whi is a wei max lik pro wit out obs hi ) k and obs wei h12 .
in sum , the em alg tha we hav obt inv a cal of pos pro in the out loo ( the e ste ) , and the sol of a set of irl pro in the inn loo ( the m ste ) .
we sum the alg as fol :
for eac dat pai ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) , com the pos pro hlt ) and h ( ' ) usi the
cur val of the par .
for eac exp ( i , j ) , sol an irl pro wit obs ( ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) ) n and obs -
vat wei ( hi h12
for eac top - lev gat net , sol an irl pro wit obs ( ( xit ) , h ( t ) . ) in
for eac low - lev gat net , sol a wei irl pro wit obs
) ) i and obs wei ( h ( t ) ) n .
ite usi the upd par val .
a lea - squ alg
in the cas of reg , in whi a gau pro mod and an ide lin fun are use , the irl loo for the exp net red to wei lea squ , whi can be sol ( in one pas ) by any of the sta lea - squ alg ( gol & van loa .
the gat net sti req ite pro .
sup , how , tha we fit the par of the gat uct usi lea squ rat tha max lik .
in thi cas , we mig hop to obt an alg in whi the gat net par are fit by a one - pas alg .
to mot thi app , not tha we can exp the irl pro for the gat net as fol .
dif the cro - ent ( equ 123 ) wit res to the par vi ( usi the fac tha ogi / loj = gi ( ij - gj ) , whe bij is the kro del ) and set the der to zer yie the fol equ :
- gi ( x12 ) vi ) ) x12 = 123 ,
whi are a cou set of equ tha mus be sol for eac i .
sim , for eac gat net at the sec lev of the tre , we obt the fol equ :
" i12 ) ( 123 ) - gjl ( x ( t ) , vij ) ) x ( t ) = 123 ,
whi mus be sol for eac i and j .
the is one asp of the equ tha ren the unu .
rec tha if the lab z and p ) wer kno , the the gat net wou be
ess sol a set of mul cla pro .
the sup err ( z : t ) - g ( cid : 123 ) t ) ) and ( - ( i ) - g ( it ) wou app in the alg for sol the pro .
not tha the err are dif bet ind var and pro .
in equ 123 and 123 , on the oth han , the err tha dri the alg are the dif ( h12 - g ~ i ) ) and ( h ( whi are dif bet pro .
the em alg eff " fil in " the mis lab wit est pro hi and hjl .
the est pro can be tho of as tar for the gi and the gil .
thi sug tha we can com " vir tar " for the und lin pre & , and jlj , by inv the sof fun .
( not tha thi
opt wou not be ava for the zi and zjl , eve if the wer kno , bec zer and one are not in the ran of the sof fun . ) thu the tar for the i are the val :
in ht ) - - in c ,
whe c = ek ctk is the nor con in the sof fun .
not , how , tha con tha are com to all of the i can be omi , bec suc con dis whe i are con to gi .
thu the val in h ! ' can be use as tar for the i .
a sim arg sho tha the val in h ( ' ) can be use as tar for the cij , wit obs
the uti of thi app is tha onc tar are ava for the lin pre ( cid : 123 ) i and ij , the pro of fin the par vi and vii red to a cou set of wei lea - squ pro .
thu we obt an alg in whi all of the par in the hie , bot in the exp net and the gat net , can be obt by sol lea - squ pro .
thi yie the fol lea alg :
for eac dat pai ( x ( o ) , y ( t ) ) , com the pos pro h t ) and h 123 ) usi the
cur val of the par .
for eac exp ( ij ) ,
sol a wei
lea - squ pro wit obs
and obs wei ( h ( t ) n
for eac top - lev gat net , sol a lea - squ pro wit obs
( ( x ( 123 , in h ( ' 123 ) ) ) i .
for eac low - lev gat net , sol a wei lea - squ pro wit obs -
vat f ( x ( t ) .
rln ) ) n and obs wei ( ht ) ) n
ite usi the upd par val .
it is imp to not tha thi alg doe not yie the sam par est as alg 123 the gat net res ( ht ) - g ~ t ) ) are bei fit by lea squ rat tha max lik .
the alg can be tho of as an app to alg 123 , an app bas on the ass tha the dif bet hlt ) and g ( t ) are sma .
thi ass is equ to the ass tha the arc can fit the und reg sur ( a con con ) and the ass tha the noi is sma .
pra we hav fou tha the lea squ alg wor rea wel , eve in the ear sta of fit whe the res can be lar .
the abi to use lea squ is cer app fro a com poi of vie .
one pos hyb alg inv usi the lea squ alg to con qui to the nei of a sol and the usi irl to ref the sol .
we tes alg 123 and alg 123 on a non sys ide pro .
the dat wer obt fro a sim of a fou - joi rob arm mov in thr - dim
hme ( alg 123 ) hme ( alg 123 )
rel err # epo
tab 123 : ave val of rel err and num of epo req for con for the
spa ( fun & jor , 123 ) .
the net mus lea the for dyn of the arm a sta - dep map fro joi tor to joi acc .
the sta of the arm is enc by eig rea - val var : fou pos ( rad ) and fou ang vel ( rad / sec ) .
the tor was enc as fou rea - val var ( n .
thu the wer twe inp to the lea sys .
giv the twe inp var , the net mus pre the fou acc at the joi ( rad / sec ) .
thi map is hig non due to the rot coo sys and the int tor bet the lin of the arm .
we gen 123 , 123 dat poi for tra and 123 , 123 poi for tes .
for eac epo ( i . e . , eac pas thr the tra set ) , we com the rel err on the tes set .
rel err is com as a rat bet the mea squ err and the mea squ err tha wou be obt if the lea wer to out the mea val of the acc for all dat
we com the per of a bin hie to tha of a bac net .
the hie was a fou - lev hie wit 123 exp net and 123 gat net .
eac exp net had 123 out uni and eac gat net had 123 out uni .
the bac net had 123 hid uni , whi yie app the sam num of par in the net as in the hie .
the hme arc was tra by alg 123 and 123 , uti cho dec to sol the wei lea - squ pro ( gol & van loa , 123 ) .
not tha the hme alg hav no fre par .
the fre par for the bac net ( the lea rat and the mom ter ) wer cho bas on a coa sea of the par spa .
( val of 123 and 123 wer cho for the par . ) the wer dif wit loc min ( or pla ) usi the bac alg : fiv of ten run fai to con to " rea " err val .
( as we rep in the nex sec , no suc dif wer enc in the cas of on - lin bac ) .
we rep ave con tim and ave rel err onl for tho run tha con to " rea " err val .
all ten run for bot of the hme alg con to " rea " err val .
fig 123 sho the per of the hie and the bac net .
the hor - izo axi of the gra giv the tra tim in epo .
the ver axi giv gen per as mea by the ave rel err on the tes set .
tab 123 rep the ave rel err for bot arc mea at the min of the rel err cur .
( min wer def by a seq of thr suc inc in the rel err . ) we als rep val of rel err for the bes lin app , the car alg , and the mar alg .
bot car and mar wer run fou tim ,
. . . . . . . . .
hme ( alg 123 )
fig 123 : rel err on the tes set for a bac net and a fou - lev hme arc tra wit bat alg .
the sta err at the min of the cur are 123 for bac and 123 for hme .
onc for eac of the out var .
we com the res fro the fou com to com the tot rel err .
two ver of car wer run one in whi the spl wer res to be par to the axe and one in whi lin com of the inp var
the mar alg req cho to be mad for the val of two str par - ter : the max num of bas fun and the max num of int ter .
eac bas fun in mar yie a lin sur def ove a rec reg of the inp spa , cor rou to the fun imp by a sin exp in the hme arc .
the we cho a max of 123 bas fun to cor to the 123 exp in the fou - lev hie .
to cho the max num of int ( mi ) , we com the per of mar for mi = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 , and cho the val tha yie the bes per ( mi = 123 ) .
for the ite alg , we als rep the num of epo req for con .
bec the lea cur for the alg gen hav len tai , we def con - ver as the fir epo at whi the rel err dro wit fiv per of the min .
all of the arc tha we stu per sig bet tha the bes lin app .
as exp , the car arc wit lin com per bet tha ( ' art wit axi - par spl . ' the hme arc yie a mod imp
' it sho be not tha car is at an adv rel to the oth alg in thi com , bec no str par wer fix for car .
tha is , car is all to fin the bes .
tre of any siz to fit
aa a a a
a a a wll ll i wl lau
i lj la l lj
fig 123 : a seq of his tre for the hme arc .
eac his dis the dis of pos pro acr the tra set at eac nod in the tre .
ove mar and car .
bac pro the low rel err of the alg tes ( ign the dif wit con ) .
the dif in rel err sho be tre wit som cau .
the nee to set fre par for som of the arc ( e . g . , bac ) and the nee to mak str cho ( e . g . , num of hid uni , num of bas fun , num of exp ) mak it dif to mat arc .
the hme arc , for exa , inv par dep tha are not pre in a bac net .
a gat net at a hig lev in the tre can " pin off " a bra of the tre , ren use the par in tha bra of the tre .
raw par cou is the onl a ver rou gui to arc cap mor pre mea are nee ( e . g . , vc dim ) bef def qua com can be mad .
the dif bet bac and hme in ter of con tim are mor def .
bot hme alg rel con mor tha two ord of mag fas
as sho in fig 123 , the hme arc len its wel to gra inv .
thi fig dis the tim seq of the dis of pos pro acr the tra set at eac nod of the tre .
at epo 123 , bef any lea has tak pla , mos of the pos pro at eac nod are app 123 acr the tra set .
as the tra pro , the his fla out , eve app bim dis in
iii li . ji
uh wi li
fig 123 : a dev tre for the hme arc .
eac plo dis the mea squ err ( mse ) for the fou out uni of the cli tre .
the plo are on a log sca cov app thr ord of mag .
whi the pos pro are eit one or zer for mos of the tra pat .
thi evo is ind of inc sha spl bei fit by the gat net .
not tha the is a ten for the spl to be for mor rap at hig lev in the tre tha at
fig 123 sho ano gra dev tha can be use for und the way in whi a hme arc fit a dat set .
thi fig , whi we ref to as a " dev tre , " sho the dev ( mea squ err ) tha wou be obt at eac lev of the tre if the tre wer cli at tha lev .
we con a cli tre at a giv lev by rep eac non at tha lev wit a mat tha is a wei ave of the exp bel tha non .
the wei are the tot pri pro ass wit eac exp acr the tra set .
the err for eac out uni is the cal by pas the tes set thr the cli tre .
as can be see in the fig , the dev is sub sma for dee tre ( not tha the ord of the plo is on a log sca ) .
the dev in the rig bra of the tre is lar tha in the lef bra of the tre .
inf suc as thi can be use for pur of exp dat ana and for mod sel .
an on - lin alg
the bat lea - squ alg tha we hav des ( alg 123 ) can be con int an on - lin alg by not tha lin lea squ and wei lin lea squ pro can be sol by rec pro tha upd the par est wit eac suc dat poi ( lju & s12 , 123 ) .
our app of the rec alg is str how , car mus be tak to han the obs wei ( the pos pro ) cor .
the wei cha as a fun of the cha par val .
thi imp tha the rec lea squ alg mus inc a , dec par tha all the sys to " for " old val of the pos pro .
in thi sec we pre the equ for the on - lin alg .
the equ inv an upd not onl of the par in eac of the net .
123 but als the sto and upd of an inv cov mat for eac net .
eac mat has dim mxr , whe m is the dim of the inp vec .
( not tha the siz of the mat dep on the squ of the num of inp var , not the squ of the num of par .
not als tha the upd equ for the inv cov mat upd the inv mat dir the is nev a nee to inv mat . )
the on - lin upd rul for the par of the exp net is giv by the fol
123 ( t+1 ) = 123 ( ) 123 + rh ( t ) h , ( t12 ( t ) - a ( t ) x ( t ) tgt )
whe rij is the inv cov mat for exp net ( ij ) .
thi mat is upd via
\ 123 ( t , 123 ) - a - ' -
\ ( h - t ) ) - + x ( t ) tr l - 123 ) x ( t ) 123
whe a is the dec par .
it is int to not the sim bet the par upd rul in equ 123 and the gra rul pre ear ( cf .
equ 123 ) .
the upd are ess the sam , exc tha the sca p is rep by the mat r / . ) it can be sho , how , tha r ' )
is an est of the inv hes of the lea - squ cos fun ( lju & s12 , 123 ) , thu equ 123 is in fac a sto app to a new - rap met rat tha a gra met . '
sim equ app for the upd of the gat net .
the upd rul for the par of the top - lev gat net is giv by the fol equ ( for the ith out of the gat net ) :
whe the inv cov mat si is upd by :
vlt ) = vlt ) + s ) ( inh ) -
s ( t ) = a_ , s ! , _ , ) _
a + x ( t ) ts ( - 123 - ) x ( t )
fin , the upd rul for the par of the low - lev gat net are as fol :
( t ) sh t ) h ( in
lnh ( 123 ) - ct ) 123 ( t )
' not tha in thi sec we use the ter " par " for the var tha are tra cal " wei "
in the neu net lit .
we res the ter " wei " for the obs wei .
" 123 is tru for fix val of the pos pro .
the pos pro are als cha ove tim , how , as req by the em alg .
the ove con rat of the alg is det by the con rat of em , not the con rat of new - rap .
- - o - - - - e - o
fig 123 : rel err on the tes set for a bac net and a fou - lev hie tra wit on - lin alg .
the sta err at the min of the cur are 123 for bac and 123 for hme .
whe the inv cov mat si is upd by :
( h12 ) ) - 123 + x ( t ) tst . _ ) x - )
the on - lin alg was tes on the rob dyn pro des in the pre sec .
pre sim con us of the nec of the dec par ( a ) .
we als fou tha thi par sho be slo inc as tra pro - - on the ear tri the pos pro are cha rap so tha the cov sho be dec rap , whe on lat tri the pos pro hav sta and the cov sho be dec les rap .
we use a sim fix sch : a was ini to 123 and inc a fix fra ( 123 ) of the rem dis to 123 eve 123 tim ste .
the per of the on - lin alg was com to an on - lin bac net .
par set for the bac net wer obt by a coa sea thr the par spa , yie a val of 123 for the lea rat and 123 for the mom .
the res for bot arc are sho in fig 123
as can be see , the on - lin alg for bac is sig fas tha the cor bat alg ( cf .
fig 123 ) .
thi is als tru of the on - lin hme alg , whi has nea con wit the fir epo .
rel err ( # epo
tab 123 : ave val of rel err and num of epo req for con for the
the min val of rel err and the con tim for bot arc are pro in tab 123
we als pro the cor val for a sim of the on - lin gra alg for the hme arc ( equ 123 ) .
we als per a set of sim whi tes a var of dif hme arc .
we com a one - lev hie wit 123 exp to hie wit fiv lev ( 123 exp ) , and six lev ( 123 exp ) .
we als sim two thr - lev hie , one wit bra fac of 123 , 123 , and 123 ( pro fro the top of the tre to the bot ) , and one wit bra fac of 123 , 123 , and 123
( eac thr - lev hie con 123 exp . ) the res are sho in fig 123
as can be see , the was a sig dif bet the one - lev hie and the oth arc .
the wer sma dif amo the mul - lev hie .
no sig dif was obs bet the two dif 123 - lev arc .
uti the hme app req tha cho be mad reg the str par of the mod , in par the num of lev and the bra fac of the tre .
as wit oth fle est tec , it is des to all the str par to be cho bas at lea par on the dat .
thi mod sel pro can be add in a var of way .
in thi pap we hav uti a tes set app to mod sel , sto the tra whe the err on the tes set rea a min .
as is the cas wit oth neu net alg , thi pro can be jus as a com con mea .
as we hav not , whe the par in the gat net of an hme arc are sma , the ent sys red to a sin " ave " gli at the roo of the tre .
as the tra pro , the par in the gat net beg to gro in mag and spl are for .
whe a spl is for the par in the bra of the tre on eit sid of the spl are dec and the eff num of deg of fre in the sys inc .
thi inc in com tak pla gra as the val of the par inc and the spl sha .
by sto the tra of the sys bas on the per on a tes set , we obt con ove the eff num of deg of fre in the arc .
oth app to mod sel can als be con .
one nat app is to use rid reg in eac of the exp net and the gat net .
thi app ext nat to the on - lin set in the for of a " wei dec . " it is als wor con bay tec of the kin con in the dec tre lit by bun ( 123 ) , as wel as the mdl met of qui and riv ( 123 ) .
. . . . . . .
123 - lev ( a )
fig 123 : rel err on the tes set for hme hie wit dif str .
" 123 - lev ( a ) - ref to a 123 - lev hie wit bra fac of 123 , 123 , and 123 , and " 123 - lev ( b ) " ref to a 123 - lev hie wit bra fac of 123 , 123 , and 123
the sta err for all cur at the res min wer app 123 .
the are a var of tie tha can be mad bet the hme arc and rel wor in sta , mac lea , and neu net .
in thi sec we bri men som of the tie and mak som com rem .
our arc is not the onl non app to mak sub use of gli ' s and the irl alg .
irl als fig pro in a bra of non sta kno as gen add mod ( gam ' s; has & tib , 123 ) .
it is int to not the com rol of irl in the two arc .
in the gam mod , the irl alg app in the out loo , pro an adj dep var tha is fit by a bac pro in the inn loo .
in the hme app , on the oth han , the out loo is the e ste of em and irl is in the inn loo .
thi com sug tha it mig be of int to con hyb mod in whi a hme is nes ins a gam or vic
we hav alr men the clo tie bet the hme app and oth tre - str est suc as car and mar .
our app dif fro mar and rel arc - suc as the bas - fun tre of san ( 123 ) - by all spl tha are obl wit res to the axe .
we als dif fro the arc by usi a sta mod - the mul log mod - for the spl .
we bel tha bot of the fea can pla a rol in inc pre abi - the use of obl spl sho ten to dec
bia , and the use of smo mul log spl sho gen dec var .
obl spl als ren the hme arc ins to the par cho of coo use to enc the dat .
fin , it is wor emp the dif in phi beh the arc .
whe car and mar are ent non , the hme app has a str fla of par sta , via its use of gen lin mod , mix mod and max lik .
sim com can be mad wit res to the dec tre met in the mac lea lit .
alg suc as id1 bui tre tha hav axi - par spl and use heu spl alg ( qui , 123 ) .
mor rec res has stu dec tre wit obl spl ( mur , kas & sal , 123 utg & bro , 123 ) .
non of the pap , how , hav tre the pro of spl dat as a sta pro .
nor hav the pro a glo goo - of - fit mea for the tre .
the are a var of neu net arc tha are rel to the hme arc - tur .
the mul - res asp of hme is rem of moo ' s ( 123 ) mul - res cma hie , dif in tha moo ' s lev of res are han exp by sep - rat net .
the " neu tre " alg ( str , zri , & isa , 123 ) is a dec tre wit mul - lay per ( mlp ' s ) at the non - ter .
thi arc can for obl ( or cur ) spl , how the mlp ' s are tra by a heu tha has no cle rel to ove cla per .
fin , hin and now ( see now , 123 ) hav ind pro ext the jac et al .
( 123 ) mod arc to a tre - str sys .
the did not dev a lik app to the pro , how , pro ins a heu spl sch .
we hav pre a tre - str arc for sup lea .
we hav dev the lea alg for thi arc wit the fra of max lik est - mat , uti ide fro mix mod est and gen lin mod the .
the max lik fra all sta too fro sta the to be bro to bea in dev inf pro and mea of unc for the arc ( cox & hin , 123 ) .
it als ope the doo to the bay app tha hav bee fou to be use in the con of uns mix mod est ( che , et al . , 123 ) .
alt we hav not emp the iss in thi pap , the are a num of poi tha are wor men .
fir , the set of exp - smo pie lin fun tha we hav uti are cle den in the set of pie lin fun on com - pac set in *i , thu it is str to sho tha the hie arc is den in the set of con fun on com set in wm .
tha is , the arc is " uni - sal " in the sen of hor , sti , and whi ( 123 ) .
fro thi res it wou see str to dev con res for the arc ( cf .
gem , bie , & dou , 123 sto , 123 ) .
we are cur dev thi lin of arg and are stu - ing the asy dis pro of fix hie .
sec , con res are ava for the arc .
we hav sho tha the con rat of the alg is lin in the con num of a mat tha is the pro of an inv cov mat and the hes of the log lik for the arc ( jor & xu , 123 ) .
fin , it is wor not a num of pos ext of the wor rep her .
our ear wor on hie mix of exp uti the mul per as the pri - iti fun for the exp net and gat net ( jor & jac , 123 )
opt is sti ava , alt we los the em pro of con ( cf .
jor & xu , 123 ) and we los the abi to fit the sub - net eff wit irl .
one int exa of suc an app is the cas whe the exp are aut - ass ( bou & kam , 123 ) .
in whi cas the arc fit hie - nes loc pri com de - com .
ano are in uns lea wor exp is the non - ass ver of the hie arc .
suc a mod wou be a rec ver of cla mix - lik clu and may hav int tie to hie clu mod .
fin .
it is als of int to not tha the rec lea squ alg tha we uti in obt an on - lin var of alg 123 is not the onl pos on - lin app .
any of the fas fil alg ( hay , 123 ) cou als be uti , giv ris to a fam of on - lin alg .
it is wor stu the app of the rec alg to pre - lik cro - val cal to eff com the cha in lik tha ari fro add or del par or dat poi .
ack : we wan to tha geo hin , ton rob , mit kaw , and dan wol for hel com on the man .
