nal els of the ent ave an ant ole to lay in dap - ive ems in ral and are of lar nce for the sed ing igm .
in his per we ate hat ain cal rob - ems ted ith the ion of the her " in sed ing can be ved by ous use of ned nal els as nts of the dap - ive tem .
in lar , we how how sed ing hms can be zed in ses in ich an own cal tem nes een ons and red mes .
our ach ies to any sed ing thm hat is ble of ing in lti - yer rks .
his per is a sed ion of mit ter for ive nce nal per .
we ish to ank ael zer , rew rto , ert obs , ric oeb , and mes and for ful nts on the ipt .
his ect was ted in art by rsg s rr - ded by the cal re - rch ort ant ram , ion of rch ces , nal tes of lth , by a ant rom atr ory and ual ion rch ora - ies , by a ant rom ens ion , by a ant rom the man ier nce ram , and by ant n - - j - ded by the oce of val
ent ork on ing hms for ist rks has een a pro - ive ing of the ons ade out the hip een the ner and the ent .
cal sed ing hms uch as the ron att , and the lms thm row & ho , ade two ong ons : the put its are the nly ive its in the ork , and ere is a her " hat des red tes for all of the put its .
rly in the ent of uch hms it was zed hat ore ful sed ing hms uld be zed by ing the rst ion and ing nal its hat ely ode the put ion ded by the ent att , .
the ent ent of hms uch as ann ing ton & ski , and ion cun , ; ker , ; art , ton , & ams , ; bos , ave ded the ans for ing rks ith ive ear nal its .
the ond ion has lso een ing hms hat ire no cit her ave een ped ker & ton , ; erg , ; nen , ; ker , ; art & ser , .
uch sed " ing hms lly orm ome ort of ing or ure ion on the put ata and are sed on ons out the cal or cal ies of the put ble .
in his per we ine in ome ail the ion of the her " in the sed ing igm .
we gue hat the her is ess of a ity han has nly een med and hat the ion hat the ent des red tes for the put of the ork can be ned tly out ing the sed ing igm her .
eed , we eel hat an ate ion of the ole of the her is ial in ing the nge of ems to ich the igm can be ied .
the sue hat we ish to ess is est ted by way of an ple .
der a ill - ing ask uch as hat ced by a all yer ing to oot ets .
the lem for the ner is to nd the ate cle nds to pel the all ard the oal .
ent nds are ate for ent ons of the oal in the ual ne; hus , a ing rom ual nes to cle nds is red .
hat ing thm ght rly the ion of uch a ing ? rly , ing or ure ion on the ual put is not ent .
ver , it is ult to see how to ply cal sed hms to his lem , use ere is no her to ide cle nds as ets to the ner .
the nly get ion ded to the ner is in rms of the ome of the nt; hat is , the hts and nds of a all ing ugh the oal .
the ral rio ted by the ple is own in ure .
ons are ded as uts to the ing tem .
the ner rms ons nto ons , ich are med by the ent nto mes .
ons are mal es; hat is , les hat the ner ols tly , ile
ure : the tal sed ing lem .
get ues are ble for the tal les the mes " but not for the mal les the ons " .
mes are tal les , les hat the ner ols tly ugh the ary of the mal les .
ing the ing ess , get ues are med to be ble for the tal les but not for the mal les .
ore , rom a int of iew ide the ing tem , a tal sed ing ask " is a ing rom ons to red mes .
rom the int of iew of the ner , ver , the lem is to nd a ing rom ons to ons hat can be sed ith the ent to eld red tal mes .
the ner ust ver how to ary the nts of the mal ion tor so as to ize the nts of the tal ror .
the tal sed ing lem lso has a ral ent .
in any nts the cts of ons are not ate and ous , but her ger on and mix ith the cts of her ons .
hus the ome at any int in ime is ced by any of a ber of ous ons .
ven if ere sts a set of les hat ave a tic hip to red mes , the ner ten oes not ave ect rol ver ose les .
der ain the ple of the all yer .
ugh the ght of the all nds nly on the ity of the arm at the ent of sea tic pit is ely hat the tor rol tem is ble to rol ase ity tly .
her , the tem uts ces or ues , and ese les do not ave a tic hip to the tal ome .
in the der of the per we ibe a ral ach to ing the dis - tal sed ing lem .
the ach is sed on the dea hat sed ing in its ost ral orm is a two - ase ure .
in the rst ase the ner rms a ive nal del a ard del of the ion rom ons to tal mes .
use uch ons are ten not own a ori , the nal del ust lly be ned by ing the mes ted ith lar ces of ons .
his ary ing lem is it - elf a sed ing lem , sed on the ror een nal , ted mes and ual mes .
nce the nal del has een at ast par - lly ned , it can be sed in an ect ner to lve for the ing rom
ons to ons .
the dea of ing an nal del to ent the ies of sed ing hms has lso een sed by bos , ugh his pec - ive ers in ain cts rom our own .
ere ave een a ber of her nts of the dea ato , ; ata , ; nro , ; yen & row , ; son & ide , ; ber , , sed her on the ork of bos or our own hed ork dan , ; art , .
ere are lso ose ies een our ach and ues in mal rol ory irk , and ive rol ory win & sin , ; dra & thy , .
we uss ral of ese ips in the der of the per , ugh we do not mpt to be ive .
tal sed ing and ard els
his ion and the ing ion ent a ral ach to ing tal sed ing ems .
we gin by ing our ons out the ent and the ner .
we ume hat the ent can be zed by a ext - ate ion f and an put ion g .
at ime tep n ( cid : 123 ) the ner ces an ion un ( cid : 123 ) .
in ion ith the ate of the ent xn ( cid : 123 ) the ion nes the ext ate xn :
xn = f xn ( cid : 123 ) ; un ( cid : 123 ) :
ing to ach ate xn ere is lso a ion yn :
yn = gxn :
ote hat ons are put ors in the ent mes " in the age of the ory ion .
the ext - ate ion and the put ion her ine a ate - ent ing rom ons to ons .
in the ent per we ume hat the ner has ess to the ate of the nt; we do not ess ues ing to ate ion and ate ion .
ate ons ght lve yed ues of ous ons and ons ung & rom , , or hey ght lve nal ate les hat are ced as art of the ing ure zer & ach , .
ven the ate xn ( cid : 123 ) and ven the put pn ( cid : 123 ) , the ner ces an ion un ( cid : 123 ) :
un ( cid : 123 ) = hxn ( cid : 123 ) ; pn ( cid : 123 ) :
the ice of ime ces in ons , , and is sed on our cus on the put at ime n .
in our ork a ing thm ers yn sed on ous ues of the tes , uts ,
ure : the ite nce tem ing of the ner and the ent .
his tem is a ing rom uts pn ( cid : 123 ) to ons yn .
the ing ata pin ( cid : 123 ) ; y i ng ify red put ior oss the ite tem .
ote hat ere is an cit oop hin the ent uch hat the put at ime n nds on the ate at ime n ( cid : 123 ) cf .
ion .
a tal sed ing lem is a set of ing irs pin ( cid : 123 ) ; y
the oal of the ing ure is to ake ate nts to the put - to - ion ing h sed on ata ned rom ing ith the ent .
ere pin ( cid : 123 ) are the put ors and y i n are the ing red sen - ons .
for ple , in the all lem , the put ght be a igh - vel ion of ing a ket , and a red ion uld be the ond - ing ual ion of a ful ome .
ote hat the tal sed ing lem kes no ion of the ons hat the ner ust re; nly uts and red ons are ied .
rom a int of iew ide the ing tem the ing ata ify red put ior oss the ite nce tem ing of the ner and the ent see ure .
rom the int of iew of the ner , ver , the lem is to nd a ing rom uts pn ( cid : 123 ) to ons un ( cid : 123 ) uch hat the ing tal ons yn are the get ues yn .
hat is , the ner ust nd a ing rom uts to ons hat can be ced in ies ith the ent so as to eld the red ing of uts and ons .
ote hat ere may be ore han one ion hat lds a ven red ion rom any ven te; hat is , the tal sed ing lem may be ned .
hus , in the bas - all ple , ere may be a ety of rns of tor nds hat eld the ame red ion of ing of the all ass ugh the oal .
the ner is med to be ble to rve tes , ons , and ons and can ore del the ing een ons and ons .
a ard del is an nal del hat ces a ted ion ^yn sed on the ate xn ( cid : 123 ) and the ion un ( cid : 123 ) .
hat is , a ard del cts the ces of a
ure : ing the ard del ing the ion ror yn ( cid : 123 ) ^yn .
ven ion in the ext of a ven ate tor .
as own in ure , the ard del can be ned by ing ted ons to ual ons and ing the ing ion ror to ust the ers of the del .
ing the ard del is a cal sed ing lem in ich the her des get ues tly in the put ate tem of the ner .
tal sed ing
we now ibe a ral ach to ing the tal sed ing rob - lem .
der the tem own in ure , in ich the ner is ced in ies ith a ard del of the ent .
his ite ing tem is a ate - ent ing rom uts to ted ons .
ose hat the ard del has een ned sly and is a ect del of the nt; hat is , the ted ion als the ual ion for all ons and all tes .
in the ing ure , his ing ess is red to as tem ion "
ung & rom , .
ure : the ite ing tem .
his ite tem aps rom uts pn ( cid : 123 ) to ted ons ^yn in the ext of a ven ate tor .
we now eat the ite ing tem as a gle sed ing tem and ain it to map rom uts to red ons ing to the ata in the ing set .
hat is , the red ons y i are ted as ets for the pos - ite tem .
any sed ing thm can be sed for his ing ss; ver , the thm ust be ned so hat it oes not ter the ard del ile the ite tem is ing ned .
by ing the ard del , we ire the tem to nd an mal ite ing by ing nly the ing rom uts to ons .
if the ard del is ect , and if the ing thm nds the lly mal ion , hen the ing ate - ent put - to - ion ing ust lso be ect in the nse hat it lds the red ite put ior hen ced in ies ith the ent .
der now the ase of an ect ard del .
rly an ect ard del ill eld an ect put - to - ion map if the ite tem is ned in the ous way , ing the nce een the red ion and the ted ion as the ror erm .
his nce , the ted nce ror y ( cid : 123 ) ^y , is ily ble at the put of the ite tem , but it is an ble ide to the rue nce of the ner .
ose ead hat we ore the put of the ite tem and ute the nce ror y ( cid : 123 ) y as the ror erm for ing the ite tem see ure .
if the nce ror oes to ero the tem has und a ect put - to - ion map , ess of the acy of the ard del .
the acy in the ard del sts elf as a ias ing the ing ess , but eed not ent the nce ror rom ing to ero .
der , for ple , hms sed on est ent .
if the ard del is not too ate the tem can ill ove ill and eby ach the ion ion , ven ugh the ent is not in the ion of est ent .
to ize , we ose to lve the tal sed ing lem by ing a ite ing tem ing of the ner and a ard del of the ent .
his ure ves tly for an put - to - ion map by
y * ( n ) _
ure : the ite tem is ned ing the nce ror .
the ard del is eld xed ile the ite tem is ing ned .
ing the ite tem to map rom uts to tal ets .
the ing of the ard del ust ede the ing of the ite tem , but the ard del eed not be ect , nor eed it be pre - ned out all of ate ace .
the ity of the tem to ize an ate ard del is nt; it ies hat it may be ble to ave the ing of the ard del and the ite tem .
in the der of the per , we uss the ues of ved ing , acy in the ard del , and the ice of the ror erm in ore ail .
we rst urn to an ing ial ase of the ral tal sed ing hat of ing an rse del of the ent .
an rse del is an nal del hat ces an ion un ( cid : 123 ) as a ion of the ent ate xn ( cid : 123 ) and the red ion yn .
rse els are ned by the ion hat hey eld the ity ing hen ced in ies ith the ent .
rse els are ant in a ety of ins .
for ple , if the en - ent is wed as a ons nel ver ich a age is to be ted , hen it may be ble to ndo the ing cts of the nvi - ent by ing it in ies ith an rse del son , .
a ond ple , own in ure , ses in rol tem ign .
a ler ves the red ion yn as put and ust nd ons hat use ual ons to be as ose as ble to red ns; hat is , the ler ust ert
ure : an rse del as a ler .
the ion rom ons to ons .
one ach to ing his ive is to ize an cit rse del of the ent as a ler .
eas ard els are ely ned by the ent , rse els are lly not .
if the ent is zed by a any - to - one ing rom ons to ons hen ere are lly an ite ber of ble rse els .
it is lso rth ing hat ses do not ays st| it is not ays ble to eve a lar red ion rom any ven ate .
as we all uss , ese ues of nce and ess ave ant ons for the lem of ing an rse del .
ere are two ral hes to ing rse els ing sed ing hms : the tal ing ach ted ove and an ive ach hat we fer to as ect rse ing " cf .
dan & aum , .
we gin by ing the ter ach .
ect rse ing
ect rse ing ats the lem of ing an rse del as a cal sed ing lem row & rns , .
as own in ure , the dea is to rve the put ior of the ent and to ain an rse del tly by ing the les of the uts and uts .
ata are ded to the thm by ing in ion ace and ing the lts in
ugh ect rse ing has een own to be a ble que in a ber of ins son & yer , ; ein , ; ler , , it has two cks hat mit its ess .
rst , if the ent is zed by a any - to - one ing rom ons to ons , hen the di - ect rse ing que may be ble to nd an rse .
the lty is hat ear any - to - one ngs can eld vex rse ges , ich are
rol tem ign lly ves a ber of nal nts ing ity and ss; hus , the oal is lly to ert the ent as rly as ble ect to ese nal nts .
ure : the ect rse ing ach to ing an rse del .
tic for ect rse ing .
der the ion own in ure .
the vex ion on the eft is the rse age of a int in ion ace .
ose hat the nts led by xs are led ing the ing ess .
ree of ese nts ond to the ame on; hus , the ing ata as een by the ect rse ing ure are one - to - one put is red ith any ets .
sed ing hms lve one - to - any ten - ies by ing oss the ple ets the orm of the ing nds on the lar ost ion hat is sed .
as is own in the ure , ver , the age of nts ing in a vex set oes not ily lie in the set .
hus the lly mal mum - ost ion und by the ect rse ing ach is not ily a ect rse del .
we ent an ple of uch ior in a ing ion .
the ond ack ith ect rse ing is hat it is not oal - ted . " the thm les in ion ace out ard to lar ets or ors in ion ace .
hat is , ere is no ect way to nd an ion hat nds to a lar red ion .
to ain lar so - ons the ner ust ple ver a tly ide nge of ons and ely on
lly , it is lso ant to ize hat ect rse ing is re - ted to the ing of rse |it is not ble to the ral tal
a set is vex if for ery air of nts in the set all nts on the ine een the nts
lso lie in the set .
ure : the ity lem .
the ion on the eft is the rse age of the int on the ght .
the row nts the ion in ich the ing is ned by ect rse ing .
the ree nts ing ide the rse age are ged by the ing ure , ing the tor ted by the all cle .
his int is not a ion , use the rse age is not vex .
sed ing lem .
the tal ing ach to ing an rse del
the ods bed ier in his ion are tly ble to the lem of ing an rse del .
the lem of ing an rse del can be ted as a ial ase of the tal sed ing lem in ich the put tor and the red ion are the ame hat is , pn ( cid : 123 ) is ual to yn in ion .
hus , an rse del is ned by ing the ner and the ard del in ies and ing an ity ing oss the ite
a tal nce een the tal ing ach and ect in - rse ing ach is hat her han ing ver ons in ion ace , the tal ing ach nds lar ons in ion ace .
the lly mal ion for tal ing is a set of ors uig uch hat the nce
an ing ogy can be awn een the tal ing ach and ect ech - ues for ing ems of ear ons .
in cal ear bra , her han ing tly for a zed rse of the ent rix , ons are lly und tly e . g . , by ing ian ion to oth des of the ion ga = i , ere i is the ity
i ( cid : 123 ) yig are ero .
his is rue ive of the pes of the rse im - i .
ors ing ide of an rse age , uch as the age ges of the ets y tor own in ure , do not eld ero nce ror and are ore not lly mal .
hus vex rse ges do not ent the ame nda - tal ies for the tal ing ork as hey do for ect rse
it is lso rue hat the tal ing ach is lly oal - ted .
the tem rks to ize the nce or; hus , it rks tly to nd ons hat ond to the lar als at and .
in ses in ich the ard ing is any - to - one , the tal ing pro - ure nds a lar rse del .
out nal ion out the lar ure of the put - to - ion ing ere is no way of ing ich of the bly ite set of rse els the ure ill nd .
as is sed low , ver , the ure can lso be ned to nd lar rse els ith ain red ies .
tal ing and ion
in his ion we ibe an ion of the tal ing ach hat zes the ery of the ion thm .
it is ant to pha - ize at the set , ver , hat ion is not the nly thm hat can be sed to ent the tal ing ach .
any sed ing lgo - thm can be sed as ong as it is ble of ing a ing oss a ite ork hat des a sly ned rk; in lar , ann ing is ble dan , .
we gin by ing a ful and for ing ion in red rks .
a red ork can be bed as a zed ing rom an put tor x to an put tor y :
y = x; w;
ere w is a tor of ers hts .
in the cal igm , the ure for ing the hts is sed on the ncy een a get tor y and the ual put tor y .
the ude of his ncy is red by a ost nal of the orm :
y ( cid : 123 ) yt y ( cid : 123 ) y :
j is the sum of red ror at the put its of the ork .
it is lly red to ize his ost .
ion is an thm for ing nts of the ost nal .
the ils of the thm can be und ere e . g . , art , et al . , ; our ion ere is to lop a ple ion hat des the ils .
his is
ved lly by ing the ain ule to ate j ith ect to the ght tor w :
rwj = ( cid : 123 )
y ( cid : 123 ) y :
his ion ows hat any thm hat tes the ent of j ely ies the ror tor y ( cid : 123 ) y by the ose ian rix @wt .
ugh the ion thm ver rms his rix tly ack - ion is lly a ion of the ix; dan , , ion ess bes the lts of the ion med by ion .
ion lso tes the ent of the ost nal ith ect to the ons of the its in the ork .
in lar , the ost nal j can be ted ith ect to the ons of the put its to eld :
rxj = ( cid : 123 )
y ( cid : 123 ) y :
we fer to ion as ion - to - hts " and ion as ack - ion - to - ion . " oth ons are ied out in one ass of the hm; eed , ion - to - ion is ded as an ate tep in the ion - to - hts ion .
in the der of his ion we ate two oad ies of ing ems hat lie hin the ope of the tal ing ach and ive ex - ons for the nts hat ise .
for ity it is med in oth of ese ons hat the ask is to arn an rse del hat is , the uts and the tal ets are med to be cal .
the two ons of the tal arn - ing ork cus on ent cts of the tal ing lem and ave ent ths and ses .
the rst ach , the cal ion " ion , ses on the cal cal ure of the ent .
use it mes hat the ner is ble to ict ate ons sed on ion hat is ble lly in ime , it nds on ior dge of an ate set of ate les for ing the ent .
it is ost lly ied to ems in ich get ues are ded at ach ent in ime , ugh it can be ded to ems in ich get ues are ded tly as we ate in a ing ion .
all of the ons ded for the cal
the ian rix of a tor ion is ply its rst |it is a rix of rst ial ves .
hat is , the ies of the rix =@w are the ial ves of the ach of the put ons ith ect to ach of the hts in the ork .
to ain ome ght nto why a ose rix ses in ion , der a gle - yer ear ork bed by y = w x , ere w is the ght rix .
the ows of w are the ing ght ors for the put its of the ork , and the mns of w are the ing ght ors for the put its of the ork .
ing a tor ard in the ork ves ing the ner uct of the tor ith ach of the ing ght ors .
his ion nds to ion by w .
ing a tor ard in the ork nds to ing the ner uct of the tor ith ach of the ing ght ors .
his ion nds to ion by w t , use the ows of w t are the mns of w .
ion ion can be med in ard rks , hus ere is no lem ith ity .
the ond ach , the ion - ong - ies " ion , ses on bal ral ies ong lar get tra - ies .
the ion ded to ain ese ies is ore lex han the ion ded for the cal ion ion , but it is ore ble .
it can be ded to ses in ich a set of ate les is not own a ori and it is lly ied to ems in ich get ues are ded in - tly in ime .
ere is lly a lem ith ity , ver , use the ons for ing the ent lve a cal ess .
the rst lem ion hat we uss is a cal ion lem .
we ume hat the ess hat tes get ors is ary and der the ing ral ost nal :
efy ( cid : 123 ) yt y ( cid : 123 ) yg;
ere y is an own ion of the ate x and the ion u .
the ion u is the put of a zed rse del of the orm :
u = hx; y
ere w is a ght tor .
her han ing j tly , by ing ics ver the ble of tes and ons , we ize an ine ing ule cf .
row & rns , hat kes tal ges to the hts sed on the ous lue of the ost nal :
yn ( cid : 123 ) ynt yn ( cid : 123 ) yn :
an ine ing thm ges the hts at ach ime tep sed on the tic ent of j; hat is , the ent of jn :
wn + = wn ( cid : 123 ) jn;
ere is a tep ize .
to ute his ent the ain ule is ied to qua -
wjn = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn;
ere the ian ces =@u and =@w are ted at ime n ( cid : 123 ) .
the rst and the ird ors in his ion are ily ted : the rst tor bes the ion of ves rom the put its of the rse del the ion its " to the hts of the rse del , and the ird tor is the
tal ror .
the gin of the ond tor is tic , ver , use the nce of y on u is med to be own a ori .
our ach to ing an ate of his tor has two rts : rst , the tem res a zed ard del ver an ate ain of the ate ace .
his del is of
^y = ^f x; u; v;
ere v is a tor of hts and ^y is the ted ion .
ond , the tal ror is ted ard ugh the ard el; his ely ies the tal ror by an ate of the ose ian rix =@u .
ing ese ces her , the thm for ing the rse del is
sed on the ing ted tic ent :
wjn = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn :
his ion bes the ion of the tal ror yn ( cid : 123 ) yn ard ugh the ard del and own nto the rse del ere the hts are ged .
the ork ure in ich ese ons ake ace is own in ure .
his ork is a ard ion of the ock ram in ure .
it is sed of an rse del , ich nks the ate its and the put its to the ion its , and a ard del , ich nks the ate its and the ion its to the ted - ion its .
ing the ard del
the ing of the ard del can elf be ted as an ion rob - lem , sed on the ing ost nal :
efy ( cid : 123 ) ^yt y ( cid : 123 ) yg;
ere ^y is of the orm ven in ion .
ugh the ice of ure for ing a set of hts v to ize his ost is ely ent of the ice of ure for ing j in ion , it is ent to ase the ing of the ard del on a tic ent as ore :
vln = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn;
ere the ian rix @ =@v is ted at ime n ( cid : 123 ) .
his ent can be ted by the ion of ves hin the ard del and ore res no nal are ond hat ady red for ing the rse
ote hat the ror erm y
n ( cid : 123 ) yn is not a ion of the put of the ard el; ess , ion ust ow ard in the del use the ted ian rix @ =@u ies as a ion of the ons of the den its and the put its of the
ure : a ard ork hat des a ard del .
the ion its are the put its of the tem .
y ( cid : 123 ) y y ( cid : 123 ) ^y y ( cid : 123 ) ^y
ted nce ror
ble : the ror als and eir ces
the ror als
it is ant to ify the ngs of the ror als sed in ons and .
as own in ble , ere are ree ror als hat can be med rom the les y , ^y , and the ion ror y ( cid : 123 ) ^y , the nce ror y ( cid : 123 ) y , and the ted nce ror y ( cid : 123 ) ^y .
all ree of ese ror als are ble to the ner use ach of the als y , y and ^y are ble the get y and the ual ion y are ded by the ent , eas the ted ion ^y is ble lly .
for ing the ard del , the ion ror is rly the ate ror nal .
the ing of the rse del , ver , can be sed on her the nce ror or the ted nce ror .
ing the nce ror see ion has the age hat the tem can arn an act rse del ven ugh the ard del is nly ate .
ere are two ons for his : rst , ion ves the ima of the ost nal in ion hey are ros of the ted ent .
hat is , an ate ian rix not ove ros of the ted ent nts at ich y ( cid : 123 ) y is ero , ugh it can uce nal ros ous cal ima .
ond , if the ted nts ned ith the ate ard del ave ive ner uct ith the tic ent in ion , hen the ted tep of the thm is ill in the ost .
hus the thm can in ple nd an act rse del ven ugh the ard del is nly ate .
ere may lso be ges to ing the ted nce ror .
lar , it may be ier in ome ons to ain ing als ing the nal del her han the nal ent art , sky , mc - and , & ton , ; ton , .
uch nal als can be ght of as a orm of tal ice " in the ase of ion - to - hts or ing " in the ase of ion - to - ion .
ese res ead to ved nce if the ard del is tly ate .
act ons not be und ith uch res , ver , ess the ard del is act .
in any ses the own ing rom ons to ons can be sed nto a ies of ler ngs , ach of ich can be led tly .
for ple , it may ten be ble to del the ext - ate ion and the put ion ely her han ing hem as a gle ite ion .
in uch ses , the ian rix @ =@u can be red ing the ain ule to eld the ing ted tic ent :
wjn = ( cid : 123 )
yn ( cid : 123 ) yn :
the ted ian ces in his ion are ned by ing ves ard ugh the ing ard els , ach of ich are
ion ong ies
a ete rse del ows the ner to ize the ons hat are ded to low any red ory .
in the cal ion ion we ely
his ion is ded for ess and is not ded for the der of the per .
ume hat the ing of an rse del is of ary ern and the ing of lar get ies is ary .
the ing ule ven by ion nds ons hat ert the ics of the ent at the ent int in ate ace , ess of her hat int is on a red ory or not .
in rms of ork res , his ach ads to ing ard rks to del the cal ard and rse ate ion ure see ure .
in the ent ion we der a ore zed lem ion in ich the cus is on lar ses of get ies .
his ion is sed on nal lus and is ely ied ith ods in mal con - rol ory irk , ; cun , .
the thm hat lts is a orm of ion - in - ime " art , ton , & ams , in a ent ork hat tes a ned ard del .
the thm ers rom the thm ted ove in hat it not nly rts the hip een ac - ons and ons at the ent int in ate ace but lso ves the ent ate ard the red ory .
we der an ble of get ies fy
ng and ene the ing
n ( cid : 123 ) ynt y
n ( cid : 123 ) ng;
ere is an dex oss get ies and y is an own ion of the ate x and the ion u .
the ion u is a zed ion of the ate x and the get y
u = hx; y
as in the ous ion , we ase the ing ule on the tic ent of j , hat is , the ent ted ong a lar ple ory y :
n ( cid : 123 ) ynt y
n ( cid : 123 ) yn :
the ent of his ost nal can be ned ing the lus of ons see lso cun , , dra & thy , .
ing n ent the tor of ial ves of j ith ect to xn , and ing n ent the tor of ial ves of j ith ect to un , dix a ows hat the ent of j is ven by the ing nce ons :
n ( cid : 123 ) yn
n ( cid : 123 ) =
ure : a ent ork ith a ard del .
the xes led by ds are nit lay nts .
ere the ian ces are all ted at ime tep n and z nds for xn + hus , the ian ces =@x and =@u are the iva - ves of the ext - ate ion .
his ion bes ion - in - ime in a ent ork hat tes a ard del of the ext - ate unc - ion and the put ion .
as own in ure , the ent ork is lly the ame as the ork in ure , ept hat ere are cit con - ons ith nit lay nts een the ext - ate and the ent ate .
ion - in - ime tes ves ard ugh ese ent ons as bed by the nce ons in ons and .
as in the cal ion ase , the ons for ing the ent
ely , ure can be ght of as a ial ase of ure in ich the rop -
ted ror als top at the ate its cf .
dan , .
lve the ion of the nce ror y ( cid : 123 ) y by a ies of ose ian ces , ral of ich are own a ori .
our ach to sti - ing the own ors is nce ain to arn ard els of the ing ngs and to ate als ard ugh the els .
hus the ian ces =@u , =@x , and =@x in ons , , and are all ced by ted ies in ing the ted tic ent
in the ing two ons , we sue the ion of the tal ing ach in the ext of two lem ins .
the rst ion bes ing in a tic ent , eas the ond ion bes ing in a mic ent .
in oth ons , we ize the cal ion ion of tal
an ent is aid to be tic if the ect of any ven ion is ent of the ory of ous ons .
in tic nts the ing rom ons to ons can be zed out nce to a set of ate les .
uch nts ide a ied ain in ich to udy the ing of rse ngs .
in his ion , we ent an ive tic ent and cus on two ues : the cts of vex rse ges in the ion rom ons to ons and the lem of oal - ted ing .
the lem hat we der is hat of ing the ard and rse ine - ics of a ree - int nar arm .
as own in ure and ure the con - ion of the arm is zed by the ree int les q; q; and q , and the ing air of ian les x and x .
the ion hat tes ese les is the ard tic ion x = gq .
it is ned in sed orm ing ary try :
x = " osq + osq + q + osq + q + q
inq + inq + q + inq + q + q ;
ere l; l; and l are the ink ths .
the ard tic ion gq is a any - to - one for ery ian ion hat is ide the ary of the ace , ere are an in - ite ber of int gle ons to eve hat ion .
his ies hat ( cid : 123 ) x is not a on; her , ere are an ite the rse tic ion g ber of rse tic ons ing to lar ces of nts q in the rse ges of ach of the ian ons .
the lem of ing an rse tic ler for the arm is hat of ing a lar rse ong the any ble rse ngs .
( 123 , 123 )
ure : a ree - int nar arm .
ure : the ard and rse ngs ted ith arm ics .
in the ons ted low , the int - gle ons of the arm ere ted ing the tor osq ( cid : 123 ) ; sq; sqt , her han the tor of int les .
his ely cts the ion of the nts to the als
, ; , and ; , ely , ing hat ach ent of the int - gle ion tor is wed to nge ver the val ( cid : 123 ) ; .
the ian les x and x ere ted as eal ers ing ver ( cid : 123 ) ; .
in all of the ons , ese les ere ted tly as eal - ued ons of its in the ork .
hus , ree its ere sed to ent int - gle ong - ons and two its ere sed to ent ian ons .
her ils on the ons are ded in dix b .
the ity lem
one ach to ing an rse ing is to ide ing irs to the ner by ing the put ior of the ent and ing the ole of the uts and uts .
his ach , ich we red to ier as ect rse ing , " has een sed in the ain of rse ics by ein .
ins dea is to mly ple nts q in int ace and to use the eal arm to ate the ard tic ion x = gq , eby ing ing irs x; q for ing the ler .
the ler is ned by ion of the ing ost nal :
efq ( cid : 123 ) qt q ( cid : 123 ) qg
ere q = hx is the put of the ler .
as we sed ier , a lty ith the ect rse ing ach is hat the ion of the ost nal in ion oes not ily eld an rse tic ion .
the lem ses use of the any - to - one ure of the ard tic ion cf .
ure .
in lar , if two or ore of the mly led nts q pen to map to the ame int , hen the ing ata hat is ded to the ler is one - to - any .
the lar ner in ich the ncy is ved nds on the orm of the ost use of the sum - of - red ror ven in ion lds an tic age ver nts hat map to the ame int .
an age in int ace , ver , oes not ily eld a ect ult in ian ace , use the rse ges of ear ons are not ily vex .
his ies hat the put of the ler may be in ror ven ugh the tem has ged to the mum of the ost nal .
in ure we ate hat the rse ics of the ree - int arm is not vex .
to see if his ity has the ted ect on the ect rse ing ure we ted a ion in ich a ard ork ith one den yer was sed to arn the rse ics of the ree - int arm .
the ion ded get ors to the ork by ing mly rom a orm ion in int ace .
put ors ere ned by ing the get ors nto ian ace ing to ion .
the ial lue of the oot - ean - are rms int - ace ror was : , red ver the rst als .
ter ; ing als the red ror hed ote at a lue of : .
a tor eld was hen ted by ing red ian ors as uts to the ork , ing the int - gle uts , and ing ese uts nto ian ace ing ion .
the ing tor eld is own in ure .
as can be een , ere is ial ror at any ons of the ace , ven ugh the ing thm has ged .
if ing is ued , the oci of the ors nue to ift , but the rms ror ins ely ant .
al - ugh his ror is lly due to the ite ing ate and the dom ing
ure : the ity of rse ics .
the ted ion is an age in int ace of the two lid ons .
ure ent , " see row & rns , , the ror ins ove : ven hen the ing ate is ken to ero .
hus , ent not ac - unt for the ror , ich ust be due to the ity of the rse tic ion .
ote , for ple , hat the ror ved in ure is ced in the wer eft ion of ure .
in ure , we ate hat the tal ing ach can nd a par - lar rse tic ing .
we med a ion hat was zed ith the ect ler ned rom ect rse ing .
the ula - ion zed a ard del hat had een ned sly the ard del was ned ing the ect rse ing als .
a rid of nly ced ons in ian ace was sed to ide ets ing the ond ase of the tal ing ure .
on ach ial the ror in ian ace was sed ard ugh the ard del and sed to nge the hts of the ler .
ter ; uch ing als ses ugh the rid of tar - ets , the ing tor eld was ted .
as own in the ure , the tor ror ses ard ero out the ce; hus , the ler is ing ard a lar rse tic ion .
the use of a rid is not ry; the ure lso rks if ian ons are led
mly on ach ial .
ure : ear - tic nce of ect rse ing .
ach tor nts the ror at a lar ion in the ace .
a her tue of the tal ing ach is the ase ith ich it is ble to ate nal nts in the ing ure and eby ias the ice of a lar rse ion .
for ple , a mum - orm int can be zed by ing a lty erm of the orm ( cid : 123 ) x to the ted ors at the put of the ler .
ral ess nts can be zed by ing nal ror rms of the orm xn ( cid : 123 ) xn ( cid : 123 ) .
uch nts can be ned at her tes in the ork as ell , ing the put its or den its of the ard del .
it is lso ble to ide nal ual uts to the ler and eby arn ple , lly - ate rse ons .
ese cts of the tal ing ach are sed in ore ail in dan , .
ect rse ing oes not arn in a oal - ted ner .
to arn a cic ian get , the ure ust ple ver a tly rge ion of int ace and ely on ion .
ics may be ble to ict the rch to ain ons of int ace , but uch ics are lly ior dge
ure : ear - tic nce of tal ing .
out the ure of the rse ing and can lly ell be ted nto the tal ing ure .
tal ing is lly oal - ted .
it is sed on the nce ror for a cic ian get and is ble of ing an act ion for a lar get in a all ber of als .
his is ted by the ion own in ure .
ing rom the ler own in ure , a lar ian get was ted for ten ive als .
as own in ure , the ork zes elf so hat the ror is all in the ity of the get .
ter ten nal als , the ror at the get is ero hin the ing - int ion of the ion .
ate ard els
we ted an nal ion to udy the cts of acy in the ard del .
the ion ied the ber of als ted to the ing of the ard del rom to .
the ler was ned to an rms ion of .
at the ree get ons ( cid : 123 ) : ; : , : ; : , and : ; : .
as own in ure , the lts ate hat an ate ler can be und ith an ate ard del .
wer als are ded to arn the get ons to ion ith the ost ate ard el; ver , the opo in ing ate ith ess ate ard els is ely ght .
bly
ure : oal - ted ing .
a ian get in the wer ght ion of the ure was ted for ten ive als .
the ror ors are ose to ero in the ity of the get .
pid ing is ned ven hen the ard del is ned for nly als , ven ugh the age rms ror in the ard del is : m ter als , red to : m ter als .
her ons ith ect rse ing
in ems ith any put les it is ten tic to ire an rse del ver the ire ace .
in uch ses the oal - ted ure of tal ing is rly ant use it ows the tem to ain rse ges for a ted set of ons .
ver , the ard del ust lso be ned ver a ted ion of ion ace , and ere is no ral a ori hod for ing the ate ion of the ace in ich to ple .
hat is , ugh tal ing is oal - ted in its ion of the rse del , it is not tly oal - ted in its ion of the ard del .
use her ect rse ing nor tal
ing is ely oal - ted , in any ven lem it is ant to der her it is ore rea - ble to ire the rse del or the ard del in a non - oal - ted
ard del ing ( als )
ure : ber of als red to ain the ler to an rms ion of .
as a ion of the ber of als ted to ing the ard del .
ach int is an age ver ree uns .
ner .
his sue is lem - ent , ing on the ure of the ion ing ned , the ure of the ass of ons hat can be ted by the ner , and the ure of the ing thm .
it is rth ing , ver , hat ere is an ent deo in ity een the rse del and the for - ard del , due to the act hat eir ion is the ity ing .
his deo sts a ity een the ses of ems for ich ect rse ing and tal ing are ate .
we eve hat tal ing is ore lly ful , ver , use an ate ard del is lly ble eas an ate rse del is not .
in any ses , it may be ble to arn an ate ard del hat is lly ted at a red set of ons her han ing an ate rse del tly and ing on ion .
mic nts : one - tep mic els
to ate the ion of tal ing to ems in ich the ent has ate , we der the lem of ing to rol a two - int bot arm .
con - ing a mic bot arm ves ing the ate ues to use the arm to low red ies .
the lem is ult use of the ear ngs een the ons of the two nks and use of the ous ues due to the ing ate ems .
the arm hat we der is the two - ink ion of the arm own sly in ure .
its ion at ach int in ime is bed by the int les qt and qt , and by the ian les xt and xt .
the tic ion xt = gqt hat tes int les to ian les can be ned by ing l ual ero in ion :
xt = " sqt + sqt + qt
nqt + nqt + qt ;
ere l and l are the ink ths .
the ate ace for the arm is the our - nal ace of ons and ies of the nks .
the nce of bot arm ics is a ing een the ues ied at the nts and the ing lar ons of the nks .
his ing is _q , and q ent on the ate les of gle and lar ity .
let q , ent the tor of int les , lar ies , and lar ons , ely , and let ent the ues .
in the ogy of ier ons , q and _q her ute the ate " and is the ion . " for nce , we ake q to ent the ext - ate " see the ion low .
to ain an log of the ext - ate ion in ion , the ing ial ion can be ved for the lar ion of the nks , ing ard ian or ian cal ons aig , :
m qq + cq; _q _q + gq = ;
ere m q is an tia rix , cq; _q is a rix of lis and tal rms , and gq is the tor of que due to ity .
our est is not in the ics ind ese ons per se , but in the nal ips hat hey ene .
in lar , to ain a ext - ate ion , " we ite ion by ing for the ons to eld :
( cid : 123 ) q ( cid : 123 ) cq; _q _q ( cid : 123 ) gq;
( cid : 123 ) q is ays red aig , .
ion ex - ere the nce of m ses the ate - ent hip een ues and ons at ach ent in ime : ven the ate les qt and _qt , and ven the que t , the ion qt can be ted by ion in ion .
we fer to his ion as the ard ics of the arm .
ure : the ard and rse ngs ted ith arm ics .
an rse ing een ues and ons can be ned by in - ing ion in the per ner .
ven the ate les qt and _qt , and ven the ion qt , ion in ion lds the rre - ing ues .
his aic ion is red to as rse ics .
it uld be ear hat rse ics and ard ics are men - ary ons : ion of rom ion nto ion lds the ite ity ing .
ese ips een ues , ons , and tes are zed in ure .
it is ful to are his ure ith the tic ple own in ure .
in oth the tic ase and the mic ase , the ard and rse ngs hat ust be ned are xed ons of the ous ues of the ant les .
in the mic ase , his is due to the act hat the ral rms of the cal ons the rms m , c , and g are cit ons of ate her han ime .
the mic ase can be ght of as a ion of the tic ase in ich nal ual ate les are ded to dex the ngs hat ust be ned .
ure is an ion of ure , ith the ion ing the ole of the ext - ate . " in ral , for ems bed by ial ons , it is ent to ene the ion of ext - ate " in rms of the ime ive of one or ore of the ate les e . g . , ons in the ase of arm ics .
his ion is ely ent ith the ent in ing ns; eed , if the ial ons in ion are ted in ete ime on a ter , hen the cal thm ust ute the ons ned by ion to ert the ons and ies at the ent ime tep nto the ons and ies at the ext ime tep .
his ive is lly hat ing the cal ion ion of tal
use of the ion of ise in ted als , ver , ost tic men - ons of ard cal els uld ize ons and ies her han ons .
in uch ses the cal ion of ion uld be ted as art of the ard
ing a mic ard del
a ard del of arm ics is a ork hat rns a ion ^q of the ion q , ven the ion q , the ity _q , and the que .
the pro - ate ing nal for uch a ork is the ual ion q , ing the ing ost nal :
efq ( cid : 123 ) ^qt q ( cid : 123 ) ^qg :
the ion ^q is a ion of the ion , the ity , the que and the
^q = ^f q; _q; ; w :
for an ate ble of rol ies , his ost nal is zed hen a set of hts is und uch hat ^f ; w est tes the ard cal ion ven by ion .
an ant nce een tic ems and mic ems is hat it is lly ble to uce ary dom rol als in dy - cal nts , use of ons of ity .
for ple , if t in ion is wed to be a ary ite - ise tic ess , hen the nce of qt hes ity uch ike a dom alk .
his lds ata hat is of tle use for ing a del .
we ave sed two ely ted hes to ome his lem .
the rst ach is to uce dom ium ons for the arm her han dom ues .
hat is , we ene a new rol nal ut uch hat the ted arm ics are ven by :
m qq + cq; _q _q + gq = kv _q ( cid : 123 ) _u + kpq ( cid : 123 ) u;
for xed nts kp and kv .
the dom rol nal u in his ion cts as a ual " ium ion for the arm gan , and the ted ics can be sed to ate ing ata for ing the ard del .
the ond ach lso zes ion and ers rom the rst ach nly in the ice of the rol nal ut .
her han ing dom ols , the get ies ves are sed as ols hat is , the ies zed in the ond ase of ing are lso sed to ain the ard del .
his ach is ent to ing a ple xed - ain nal - ive pd ack ler to ize the tem ong a set of nce ies and eby ate ing ata .
uch use of an ary ack ler is lar to its use in the ack - ror ing ato , et al . , and ect rse ing son & yer , ; ler , hes .
as is sed low , the ond ach has the age hat it oes not ire the ard del to be ned in a ate ase .
a pd ler is a ice ose put is a ted sum of ion ors and ity ors .
the ion ors and the ity ors are ied by xed ers ins ore
ure : the ite rol tem .
ite rol tem
the ite tem for ing the arm is own in ure .
the rol nal in his ram is the que , ich is the sum of two nts :
= f f + f b;
ere f f is a ard que and f b is the nal ack que ced by the ary ack ler .
the ard ler is the ing con - ler hat ges ard a del of the rse ics of the arm .
in the rly ses of ing , the ard ler ces all dom ues , hus the jor rce of rol is ded by the ror - ing ack ler .
hen the ard ler ins to be ned it ces ues hat al - low the tem to low red ies ith ler ror , hus the ole of the ack ler is hed .
eed , in the mit ere the ard ler ges to a ect rse del , the ard que ses the tem to low a red ory out ror and the ack ler is
as is sed low , his ent is not ely ate .
the ing thm elf
des a orm of ror - ing ack rol .
ore ent ing no ces .
hus the tem fts lly rom ack - ted rol to ard - ted rol ver the rse of ing see lso son & yer , ; ato , et al . , ; ler ,
ere are two ror als zed in ing rse ics : the ion ror q ( cid : 123 ) ^q and the nce ror q ( cid : 123 ) q .
the ion ror is sed to ain the ard del as sed in the ous ion .
nce the ard del is at ast lly ned , the nce ror can be sed in ing the rse del .
the ror is ted ard ugh the ard del and own nto the ard ler ere the hts are ged .
his ess zes the tal ost nal :
efq ( cid : 123 ) qt q ( cid : 123 ) qg :
the arm was led ing gid ody ics ing the ass to be mly ted ong the nks .
the nks ere led as hin ers .
ils on the cal nts are ded in dix c .
the ion of the ard ics of the arm was ied out ing a rth - der nge - tta thm ith a ing ncy of hz .
the rol als ded by the rks ere led at hz .
ard ard ist rks ere sed in all of the ula - ons .
ere ere two ard rks in ach n|a ler and a ard ith all ity as own in ure ith the box led arm " ing ced by a ard del .
oth the ler and the ard del ere ard rks ith a gle yer of tic den its .
in all of the ons , the ate les , ues , and ons ere pre - ted tly as eal - ued ons in the ork .
ils of the rks sed in the ons are ded in dix b .
in all but the nal ion ted low , the ing of the ard del and the ing of an rse del ere ied out in ate ses .
the ard del was ned in an ial ase by ing a dom ess to ive the ted ics ven in ion .
the dom ess was a ite ise ion nal sen mly hin the ace own in ure .
the ing of the ard del was ted hen the red rms ion ror hed : d=s .
as ted ove , it is lso ble to ude the cal ion of ^q as art of the ard del and arn a ing ose put is the ted ext - ate qn; _qn .
his ach may be red for ems in ich ion of isy als is a ern .
ure : the ace the rey ion and our get ths .
the ies ove rom eft to ght ong the ths own .
ure : nce on one of the our ned ies .
a ore ing .
b ter ing als .
ing ith an ary ack ler
ter ing the ard del , the tem ned to rol the arm ong the our ths own in ure .
the get ies ere mum erk ies of one ond ion ach .
an ary nal - ive pd ack ler was sed , ith ion ins of : n rad and ity ins of : n m rad .
ure ows the nce on a lar ory ore ing ith the pd ler one and ing the th ing ial .
the ing rms are own in ure and ure .
the dle phs in ese res how the ack ues hed nes and the ard ues lid nes .
as can be een , in the rly ses of ing the ues are
ted lly by the ack ler and in ter ses the ues are ted lly by the ard ler .
ing out an ary ack ler
an ing nce of the oal - ted ure of the ard ing ach is hat it is ble to arn an rse mic del out ing an ary ack ler .
to see why his is the ase , rst ote hat mum erk nce ies and her oth " nce ies nge wly in ime .
his ies hat ive ime eps are lly ted ing als on the ame put or; hus , the ler ges dly to a ion " for a cal ion of ate ace .
as the ory ves , the ion cks the ut; hus , the ler ces bly ood ues ior to any ing . " put her way , the tal ing ach is elf a orm of ror - ing ack rol in the ter ace of the ler .
uch ror ion ust lly ive way to nce of the hts if the tem is to arn an rse el; ess , it is a ful ure of the thm hat it nds to ize the arm ing ing .
his ior is ted by the ons own in ure .
the ure ows nce on the rst ing ial as a ion of the ing ate .
the lts ate hat ing the ing ate lly ges the ain of the ror - ing ior of the thm .
hen the ing ate is set to . , the tem ces rly ect nce on the rst ing ial .
his ure of the thm kes it ant to ify the ing of the ing ves ned ith the tal ing ach .
ure ows two uch ing ves .
the wer rve is the rms ror hat is ned ith a ing ate of . .
the per rve is the rms ror hat is ned hen the ing ate is ily set to ero ter ach ing ial .
ing the ing ate to ero ows the cts of ing to be ted ely rom the ror - ing ior .
the ves rly eal hat on the rly als the ain tor to nce is ror ion her han ing .
ing ard ics and ard ics
ing the ard mic els of his ion ith the ard tic els of the ing ion kes it ble to ain the ler ing rte - ian get ies .
ven hat the mic del and the tic del can be ned in lel , ere is lly no nce ent ted ith ing the ned tem .
in our ons , we nd hat ing mes ase by ely ght ent hen ing ian ets her han int gle ets .
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
mu = 123
ure : nce on the rst ing ial as a ion of the ing ate .
mu = 123 mu = 123
ure : rms ror for ero and non - ero ing tes .
ing the ard del and the ler sly
the tal ing ach ves ing a ard del to ain the er; hus , ing of the ard del ust ede the ing of the ler .
it is not ary , ver , to arn the ard del ver the ire ate ace ore ing the r|a cal ard del is lly ent .
ver , as we ave sed , the tal ing ach oes not ire an act ard ate ard els ten uce .
ese two cts , in ion ith the use of oth nce ies , ply hat it uld be ble to arn the ard del and the ler sly .
an ary ack ler is ded to ize the tem ly; ver , nce the ard del ins to be ned , the ing thm elf nds to ize the tem .
ver , as the ler ins to be ned , the ors ase and the cts of the ack ler ish lly .
hus the tem aps elf ard an rse del .
the ion own in ure tes the ity of his ach .
ure : ing the ard del and the ler sly .
a per - nce ore ing on two of the get ies .
b nce ter
ing the ame ure as in ous nts the tem ned our get ies ing ith all dom hts in oth the ler and the ard del .
on ach ime tep two ses of the ion thm ere one ass ith the ion ror q ( cid : 123 ) ^q to nge the hts of the ard del , and a ond ass ith the nce ror q ( cid : 123 ) q to nge the hts of the ler .
an ary nal - ive pd ack ler was sed , ith ion ins of : n rad and ity ins of : n m rad .
as own in the ure , the tem ges to an ble vel of nce ter ing als .
ugh the ous ing ure res ore ons of the get ies to eve a vel of nce ble to hat of the two - ase ing ure , the ous ure is in act ore ent han two - ase ing use it ses ith the ial ase of ing the ard del .
his age ust be hed nst ain es; in lar , the ity of ity is ced use of the ror in the nts ned rom the lly - ned ard del .
in ice we nd hat it is ten ary to use ler tep zes in the ous ing ach han in the two - ase ing ach .
ary nts ave lso own hat is ile to ose zed ons hat nce the eed ith ich the ard del ges .
his can be one ely for the ate ble put and the que put .
mic nts : ied els
in the ous ion we ted how the ral ent of the dis - tal sed ing lem can be sed by dge of a set of ate les for the ent .
ing ior dge of a set of ate les is unt to ing hat the ner has ior dge of the mum lay een the ime at ich an ion is ued and the ime at ich an ect is ved in the ion tor .
in the ent ion we ent ary lts hat aim to den the ope of the tal ing ach to ess ems in ich the mum lay is not own see lso bos , .
a ple ple of uch a lem is one in ich a bot arm is red to be in a ain ion at ime t , ere t is own , and ere the ory in the pen val rom to t is ned .
one ach to ing uch ems is to arn a one - tep ard del of the arm ics and hen to use ion - in - ime in a ent ork hat des the ard del and a ler dan , ; ato , .
in any ems ing yed ral ces , ver , it is her ble nor ble to arn a mic ard del of the ent , her use the ent is too lex or use ing the ask at and oes not ire dge of the ion of all of the ate les .
der for ple the lem of ing the ght of a ash of ter hen nes of ing ize are ped nto a ond .
it is ely hat a ful one - tep mic del uld be ned for the uid ics of the ond .
ver , if the rol lem is to uce hes of lar red hts , it may not be ary to del uid ics in ail .
a ple ard del hat cts an ted ash ght as a ion of the ize of the may uce .
dan and obs ted his ach by ing tal ing to lve the lem of ing to nce an ted lum on a ing art .
his lem is lly sed as an nce rol lem in ich the nly ive ion ded by the ent is a nal to ate hat ure has red rto , ton , & son , .
the lay een ons ces ied to the art and the ure nal is own and eed can be ily rge .
in the rit of the ing ion , dan and obs lso med hat it is ble to del the ics of the art - ole em; hus , the ler not be ned by ing ion - in - ime in a ent ork hat des a one - tep mic del of the ant .
a que ory may be ied by ing nal nts on the ral evo - ion of the ns; ver , the nly cit get ion is med to be hat ded at the nal ime tep .
in tos ork , ion - in - ime is ted in a lly - led ork and the nts are sed to nge ons her han ts; ver , the dea of ing a one - tep ard mic del is the ame .
see lso yen & row for an ion to a tic lem .
the ach ted by dan and obs ves ing a ard del ose put is an ted |an ate of the rse of the ime til ure .
his ate is ned ing ral nce ues ton , .
at ime eps on ich ure urs , the get lue for the ard del is ity :
et = ( cid : 123 ) zt;
ere ^zt is the put of the ard del , and et is the ror erm sed to nge the hts .
on all her ime eps , the ing ral nce ror erm is sed :
+ ^z ( cid : 123 ) t +
ich lds an ing tic ies ong any ory hat ads to ure .
nce ned , the put of the ard del is sed to ide a ent for ing the ler .
in lar , use the red ome of ing the ole can be bed as the oal of ing the ime til ure , the thm rns the ler by ing ero nus the put of the ard del as the tal ror nal .
the ard del sed by dan and obs ers in an ant way rom the her ard els bed in his per .
use the ime - til - ure nds on ure ons of the ler , the ing hat the ard del ust arn nds not nly on xed ies of the ent but lso on the ler .
hen the ler is ged by the ing thm , the ing hat the ard del ust arn lso ges .
hus the ard del ust be ted sly ing the ing of the ler .
in ral , for ems in ich the ard del rns to ate an ral of the sed - oop ics , the ing of the ard del and the ler ust eed
ral nce ues ide the tal ing ach ith en - ced ity .
hey ake it ble to arn to ake ong - erm ons and eby ust ers on the sis on ies hat are tal in ime .
hey can lso be sed to arn lti - tep ard els .
in ion ith ion - in - ime , hey ide a ble set of ues for ing ac - ons on the sis of lly - ded ces .
in his per we ave ued hat the sed ing igm is der han is nly med .
the tal sed ing ork nds per - sed ing to ems in ich red ues are ble nly for the tal
his que can be red as an ple of ing sed ing hms to lve
a ent ing lem see low .
ces of a ers ons and not for the ons ves .
his is a sig - ant ing of the cal ion of the her " in the sed ing in his ion we ide her ion of the ass of ems hat can be ted hin the tal sed ing ork .
we uss ble ces of ing ata and we ast tal sed ing ith
how is ing ata ned ?
to ide ort for our ent hat tal sed ing is ore tic han cal sed ing it is ary to der ble ces of ing ata for tal sed ing .
we uss two uch ces , ich we fer to as ion and ing .
one of the ost mon ays for ans to ire lls is ugh ion .
lls uch as nce or ics are ten ned by ing her son ing the ill and ing to ate eir ior .
ugh in ome ses a her may be ble to est lar rns of imb ion , uch ect ion oes not ear to be a ary ent of ill ion .
a ase in int is ech ren ire ech by ing ech nds , not by ing ion on how to ove eir ors .
our ion of a tal sed ing lem ves a set of ten - ion , red ome ing irs .
ing by ion rly kes red mes ble to the ner .
ith ard to ons , ere are ree ssi - ies .
rst , the ner may now or be ble to fer the ons of the son ing as a del .
ely , an tic nal ing of ons is ble as ong as the ing is ent .
for ple , a ild ing ech may ave an ion to ink , may rve her son ing ter by ing the orm ter , " and may ize the tic ion of ter " as a tal get for ing the ory nts for ing a ire to ink , ven ugh the her son ses the ter to use a re .
lly , hen the ner is ing an rse del , as in the ons ted in his per , the ion is sly ble use it is the ame as red ome .
our ion of tal sed ing lem as a set of ing irs is of rse an ion hat ust be ted hen ing ith lex sks .
in a lex ask uch as nce , it is bly not asy to ine the ice of ory ata to be sed as tal ets for the ing ure .
eed , the ner may ter the ice of ets nce he or she has ved a cum of ill .
the ner may lso eed to ose the ask nto ler sks and to set ate als .
we ect hat the ole of nal ers " is to elp ith ese nal ues her han to ide mal ets tly to the
her rce of ata for the tal sed ing igm is a ess hat we fer to as ing . " ing is a ral ess of ing
act als nto eir ing ory ion , out ard to the ons ded to eve the als .
ing ves ing hat it uld ook ike " or eel ike " to orm ome ask .
his ess bly ves ral ive and ive ing ies as ell as nce ith lar sks .
the int hat we ant to ize is hat ing eed not fer to the ons hat are ded to lly rry out a sk; hat is the lem ved by the tal ing ure .
ons ith ent ing
an ive ach to ing the ass of ems hat we ave sed in his per is to use ent ing hms rto , ; ton , .
ent ing hms are sed on the ion hat the ron - ent des an ion of the ons ced by the ner .
use the ion can be an ary ion , the ach is in ple ble to the ral lem of ing on the sis of tal als .
ent ing hms ork by ing the ies of mit - ing lar ons .
the ing ure is sed on the ons ved rom the ent .
if the ion of an ion is ble hen the bil - ity ted ith hat ion is sed and the ies ted ith all her ons are sed .
ely , if the ion is ble , hen the ity of the ven ion is sed and the ies ted ith all her ons are sed .
ese tic res of ent ing hms ier in ant ays rom the ing res of sed ing hms .
sed ing hms are sed on the nce of a ned ror tor her han an ion .
the ned ror tor is lly , ugh not ays , ned by ing the ual put tor to a get tor .
if the ned ror tor is all , ing to a ble ion , the thm tes no ges .
if the ned ror tor is rge , ing to an ble ion , the thm cts the ent ion in vor of a lar ive ion .
sed ing hms do not ply ase the ies of all ive ns; her , hey ose lar ves sed on the ity of the ned ror tor .
it is ant to ish een ing gms and ing lgo - hms .
use the ame ing thm can ten be zed in a ety of ing gms , a ure to ish een gms and hms can ead to ing .
his is rly rue of ent ing sks and sed ing sks use of the ose ips een ive als and ned ror ors .
a ned ror tor can ays be ted nto an ive nal any ded nic ion of the orm of the ned
as ted out by rto , ton & son , his ion een ent ing and sed ing is ant nly if the ner has a ire of ore han two
ror tor es; hus , ent ing hms can ays be sed for sed ing ems .
ely , an ive nal can ays be ted nto a ned ror tor ing the ery hat we ave ed; see lso nro , ; hus , sed ing hms can ays be sed for ent ing ems .
the ion of a ing igm , ver , has ore to do ith the ner in ich a lem is lly sed han ith the thm sed to lve the lem .
in the ase of the all yer , for ple , ing hat the ent des nal ion uch as too far to the eft , " too ong , " or too ort , " is ery ent rom ing hat the ent des ive ion of the orm ood , " ter , " or est " .
ore , ing hms ier in mic ity hen ied oss gms : ing a ent ing thm to lve a su - sed ing lem is ely to be ent use uch hms do not ake age of nal ion .
ely , ing sed ing al - hms to lve ent ing ems is ely to be ent use of the tra ery hat is red to uce a ned ror tor .
in ary , ugh it has een ted hat the nce een ein - ent ing and sed ing is the ers nce on a her , " we eel hat his ent is ken .
the ion een the sed ing igm and the ent ing igm ies in the ion of nvi - tal ack as an ror nal or as an ive nal , not the ate tem in ich uch als are ded .
any ems ing tal dit ent may be ter ved of as sed ing ems her han ent ing ems if the tal ack nal can be ted as a nce ror .
ere are a ber of ies ith the cal ons een per - sed , " ent , " and sed " ing .
sed ing is lly aid to be ent on a her " to ide get ues for the put its of a ork .
his is wed as a ion use in any ins ere is no uch her .
ess , the ent ten oes ide ory ion out the ces of an ion ich can be yed in ing nal mod - ons ust as if a her had ded the ion to the ner tly .
the dea is hat the ner rst res an nal del hat ows ion of the ces of ons .
the nal del can be sed as a ism for ing tal ory ion out the ces of ons nto mal ion for ing nal ons .
his two - ase ure nds the ope of the sed ing igm to ude a oad nge of ems in ich ons are med by an own cal ess ore ing red to red mes .
we rst ted his ach in the ase of ing an rse del of a ple tic " ent .
we wed hat our hod of ing a ard del of the ent has a ber of ant ges ver the ive hod of ing the rse del tly .
ese ges are lly ent in ses ere ere is no que rse del .
we lso wed hat his dea can be ded lly to the ase of a mic ent .
in his ase , we ply ate oth the ard del and the ner i . e . , ler so hey ake nto unt the ent ate of the ent .
lly , we wed how his ach can be ned ith ral nce ues to ild a tem ble of ing rom ory ack hat is ect to an own lay .
we lso ted hat ive ork in the udy of ing can be ili - ted by ing a ion een ing hms and ing gms .
a ety of ing hms can ten be ied to a lar nce of a ing gm; hus , it is ant to ize not nly the tic cts of any ven ing lem , uch as the ure of the ion een the ner and the ent and the ure of the ies to be zed , but lso the eos in mic ity hat ise hen ent ses of ing hms are ied to the lem .
her rch is ded to ate the ral ses at the els of gms and hms and to ify the ips een els .
we eve hat uch rch ill gin to pro - ide a cal sis for ing ons een ate ses in the cal udy of man ing .
