123 act ( imw 3wb ord )
w e ent a ree - red ure for sed ing .
ile cal del ing the ure is a cal ure del in ich oth the ure nts and the ure nts are zed ear els ( uim ' s ) .
ing is ted as a mum ood em; in lar , we ent an ion - ion ( em thm for ing the ers of the ure .
we lso lop an on - ine ing thm in ich the ers are ted lly .
ive ion lts are ted in the bot dy ics ain .
123 ect rms
ber of ges
ice ode
123 ity ion
ity ion
of his age
ity ion
kon of
tic ity pec ' ted 123
tts ute of ogy
ial nce ory
ter for cal and nal ing
ent of ain and ive ces
emo no .
123 c . b . c . l .
emo no
ust 123 , 123
cal res of rts and the em
ael i .
dan and ert a .
obs
we ent a ree - red ure for sed ing .
the cal del ing the ure is a cal ure del in ich oth the ure nts and the ure com - nts are zed ear els ( lim ' s ) .
ing is ted as a mum ood em; in lar , we ent an ion - ion ( em ) thm for ing the ers of the ure .
we lso lop an on - ine ing thm in ich the ers are ted lly .
ive ion lts are ted in the bot ics ain .
ght @ tts ute of ogy , 123
his ort bes rch one at the ept .
of ain and ive ces , the ter for cal and nal ing , and the ial nce ory of the tts ute of ogy .
ort for bcl is ded in art by a ant rom the nsf ( asc - 123 ) .
ort for the ory ' s ial nce rch is ded in art by the ced rch cts ncy of the ept .
of nse .
the ors ere ted by a ant rom the ell - pew ion , by a ant rom atr man ion ing rch ies , by a ant rom ens ion , by by ant iri - 123 rom the nal nce ion , by ant 123 - 123 - j - 123 rom the ice of val rch , and by nsf ant ecs - 123 to ort an ive in ent rol at mit .
ael 123
dan is a nsf ial ung tor .
the ple of ide - and - uer is a ple ith ide ity out ied ics .
ide - and - uer hms ack a lex lem by ing it nto ler ems ose ons can be ned to eld a ion to the lex lem .
his ach can ten ead to ple .
ant and ent hms .
in his per we ore a lar ion of the ide - and - uer ple to the lem of ing rom les .
we ibe a ork ure and a ing thm for the ure .
oth of ich are red by the phy of ide - and - uer .
in the cal ure and in the ine ing ure , ide - and - uer ap - hes ave ome gly lar .
the art thm of man , man .
123 - hen , and one ( 123 ) , the ars thm of man ( 123 ) , and the 123 thm of lan ( 123 ) are ell - own les .
ese hms fit ces to ata by tly ing the put ace nto a ted nce of ons , and by ing ple ces ( e . g . , ant ons ) hin ese ons .
hey ave nce mes hat are ten ers of ude ter han ent - sed ral ork hms .
ugh ide - and - uer hms ave uch to end hem , one uld be ned out the cal ces of ing the put ace .
ing the ata can ave ble ces for the ias of an tor , but it lly ses the nce .
der ear ion , for ple , in ich the nce of the tes of the ope and ept end lly on the ead of ata on the x - xis .
the nts hat are the ost ral in the put ace are ose hat ave the mal ect in ing the nce of the ter tes .
the ing ons est hat ide - and - uer hms lly end to be nce - ing hms .
his is eed the ase and is rly tic in igh - nal ces ere ata ome gly rse ( ott , 123 ) .
one nse to his mma - hat ted by art , ars , and 123 , and lso ted ere - is to ize ise ant or ise ear ons .
ese ons ize nce at a ost of sed ias .
we lso ake use of a ond nce - ing ce; a ice iar in the ral ork ure .
we ake use of " oft " its of ata ( dle , 23; lan .
123 : hba , gu , ang , k ell , 123 ) , ing ata to lie sly in ple ons .
his ach ows the ers in one ion to be ced by ata in ing ons .
art , ars , and 123 ely on " ard " its , ich , as we ked ove , ave rly ere cts on nce .
by ing oft its the ere cts of ing off ant ata can be ted .
we lso mpt to ize the ias hat is red by ing ise ear ons , by ing the its to be med ong nes at ary ons in the put ace .
his ens the ias due to igh - der ons ong the uts and ows the thm to be ive to the lar ice of tes sed to ode the ata ( an ent ver ods uch as ars and 123 , ich are
the ork hat we ibe ere kes act ith a .
ber of hes of cal ory .
rst , as in our ier ork ( obs , dan , lan , & , ton , 123 ) , we ate the ing lem as a ure ion lem ( cf .
man , et al , 23; uda &k : art .
23; lan .
23; ner & ker , 23; ton , ith , & kov , 123 ) .
we how hat the thm hat is lly yed for the sed ing of ure ( em ) thm of ter , ird and bin ( 123 ) - can lso be ted for sed ing .
ond .
we ize zed ear del ( lim ) ory ( agh & der , 123 ) to ide the sic cal ure oea
for the nts of the ure .
in lar .
the " oft its " red to ove are led as ial git els - a fic orm of lim .
we lso how hat the thm ped for ing lim ' s - the ely ted ast res ( rls ) thm - can be lly yed in our del , in lar as the m tep of the em thm .
lly .
we how hat ese eas can be ped in a ive ner , ing a ree - red ach to ion hat is ent of art , ars .
and 123
the der of the per eds as ows .
we rst uce the cal ure - of - rts ure and ent the ood ion for the ure .
ter ing a ent ent thm , we lop a ore ful ing thm for the ure hat is a ial ase of the ral ion - ion ( em ) ork of ter .
ird and bin ( 123 ) .
we lso ibe a ast - res ion of his thm hat ads to a rly ent ion .
oth of the ter hms are tch ing hms .
in the nal ion , we ent an on - ine ion of the ast - res thm hat in ice ars to be the ost ent of the hms hat we ave ied .
cal res of rts
the hms hat we uss in his per are sed ing hms .
we tly ess the ase of ion , in ich the put ors are nts of r ' and the put ors are nts of rn .
we lso der ion els and ing els in ich the uts are ger - ued .
the ata are med to orm a ble set of red ons a ' = ( ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) ) .
in the ase of the tch hms sed low , his set is med to be te; in the ase of the on - ine hms , the set may be ite .
we ose to lve ear sed ing ems by ing the put ace nto a ted set of ons and ing ple ces to the ata hat all in ese ons .
the ons ave " oft " ies , ing hat ata nts may lie sly in ple ons .
the ies een ons are ves ple zed ces hat are ted by the ing thm .
the cal ure - of - rts ( hme ) ure is own in ure 123 the ar - ure is a ree in ich the ing rks sit at the als of the ree .
ese rks ive the tor x as put and uce lar uts hat are a ion of ity at ach int in the put , ace .
the ert rks sit at the ves of the ree .
ach ert ces an put tor lij for ach put tor .
ese put ors eed up the ree , ing ded by the ing ork uts .
all of the ert rks in the ree are ear ith a gle put ity .
we ill fer to uch a ork as " zed ear , " ing the ogy rom ics ( agh & der , 123 ) .
ert ork ( i , j ) ces its put / pi , as a zed ear ion of the put x :
ere ( tij is a ght rix and f is a xed ous ity .
the tor x is med to ude a xed ent of one to low for an ept erm .
l ( cid : 123 ) ij = f ( ijx ) ,
for ion ems , f ( . ) is lly sen to be the ity ion ( i . e . , the ex - rts are ear ) .
for ary ion ems , f ( . ) is lly ken to be the tic ion , in ich ase the ert uts are ted as the log dds of " ess " der a
' to ify the ion , we ict ves to a two - vel chy out the per .
all of the hms hat we ibe , ver , ize ily to ies of ary pth .
see dan and xu ( 123 ) for a ive ism hat les ary ies .
ure 123 : a two - vel cal ure of rts .
to orm a per ree , ach ert is ded ely nto a ing ork and a set of sub - rts .
lli ity del ( see low ) .
her els ( e . g . , way ion , ing , ate ion and val ion ) are led by ing her ces for f ( - ) .
ese els are hed ise ogs of the ing lim els ( cf .
agh &
the ing rks are lso zed ear .
ine ate les & , as ows :
ere vi is a ght tor .
hen the ith put of the top - vel ing ork is the " max " ion of the & ( dle , 23; agh & der , 123 ) :
23i = ( cid : 123 ) k
ote hat the gi are ive and sum to one for ach x .
hey can be ted as ing a " oft " ing of the put ace .
rly , the ing rks at wer els are lso zed ear ems .
ine
is the put of the jth nit in the ith ing ork at the ond vel of the ure .
nce ain , the jli are ive and sum to one for ach x .
hey can be ted as ing a ted " oft " ing of the put ace hin the ing ing by the her - vel ing ork .
the put tor at ach nal of the ree is the ted put of the rts low hat nal .
hat is , the put at the ith nal in the ond yer of the two - vel ree is :
and the put at the top vel of the ree is :
p = 123 ~ i
ote hat oth the g ' s and the t ' s end on the put x , hus the tal put is a ear ion of the put .
ven the ons of the ert rks and the ing rks , the ion ace ned by the chy is a ise end of the ion ces ned by the rts .
the ing rks ide a ted , " oft " ing of the put ace and the ert rks ide cal ion ces hin the ion .
ere is lap een igh - ing ons .
to and the ure of the lap , der a one - vel chy ith two ert rks .
in his ase , the ing ork has two uts , g , and 123
the ing put g , is ven by :
~ ef + 123
ich is a tic dge ion ose ion is ned by the ion of the tor
the ing put 123 is ual to 123 - gi .
for a ven x , the tal put i is the vex ion 123 , 123 + 123 , his is a ted age of the rts .
ere the hts are ned by the ues of the dge ion .
ong the dge , g , = 123 = , and oth rts ute lly .
way rom the dge , one ert or the her tes .
the unt of ing oss the dge is ned by the ude of the tor v 123 - v 123 .
if v 123 - 123 is rge , hen the dge ion mes a arp lit and the ted put of the rts mes ise ( zed ) ear .
if v 123 - vi is all , hen ach ert tes to a ant ree on ach ide of the dge .
eby ing the ise map .
in the mit of a ero nce tor , gi = 123 = for all x , and the tal put is the ame xed age of the rts on oth des of the ous " lit . "
in ral , a ven ing ork ces a hed nar ing of the put ace .
wer - vel ing rks uce a ion hin the ion ced by her - vel ing rks .
the hts in a ven ing ork ine the unt of ing
oss the ion at hat lar vel of ion : rge ght ors ply arp ges in the ion ace oss a dge and all hts ply a her ace .
in the mit of ero hts in all ing rks , the ire chy ces to a xed age ( a ear tem in the ase of ion ) .
a ity del
the chy can be ven a tic ion .
we ose hat the ism by ich ata are ted by the ent ves a ted nce of ons hat tes in a ive ess hat aps x to y .
the ons are led as ial dom les .
hat is , for ach x , we ret the ues gi ( x , v ) as the ial ies ted ith the rst ion and the jli ( x , v% ) as the ( nal ) ino - ial ies ted ith the ond ion , ere the ipt " 123 " ers to the " rue " ues of the ers .
the ons orm a ion ree .
we use a cal del to del his ion ee; in lar , our ice of ion ( cf .
ons 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 ) nds to a ial git ity del at ach nal of the ree ( see dix 123 ) .
a ial git del is a ial ase of a lim hat is nly sed for , . oft " way ion ( agh & der , 123 ) .
der the ial git del , we ret the ing rks as ing the put - ent , ial ies ted ith ons at lar els of ion in a ree - red del of the
nce a lar nce of ons has een ade , ing in a ice of ive ess ( ij ) , put y is med to be ted ing to the ing cal del .
rst , a ear tor nij is med :
the ted lue of y is ned by ing the ear tor ugh the ink ion
the put y is hen sen rom a ity ity p , ith ean ( cid : 123 ) a and " ion " ter 123
we ote the ity of y as :
ere the ter tor 123 des the hts u and the ion ter 123 :
we ume the ity p to be a ber of the ial ily of ies ( agh & der , 123 ) .
the ion of the ion ter nds on the lar ice of ity .
for ple , in the ase of the n - nal ian , the ion ter is the nce rix 123
123 we ize the ral ork ion in ing nks .
in lim ory , the ion is hat .
the ink
ion tes r to p; hus , q = h ( p ) , ere h is ent to our f - 123
' not all ial ily ies ave a ion er; in lar , the lli ity sed
low has no ion ter .
ven ese ons , the tal ity of ing y rom x is the ure of the ies of ing y rom ach of the ent ies , ere the ing ons are ial ies :
p ( ylx , 123 ) = - gi ( x , v ) jli ( x , v ) p ( yjx , 123 ) ,
ote hat 23o des the ert ork ers 123 as ell as the ing ork ame - ers 123 and 123
ote lso hat we ave tly ted the nce of the ies gi and jli on the put x and on the ers .
in the der of the per we rop the cit nce to the put and the ers to ify the ion :
p ( ylx , 123 ) = - i
we lso ize ion 123 out the pts to fer to the ity del ned by a lar hme ure , ive of any nce to a " rue " del .
in the ase of ion the tic ent of the del is lly med to be ian .
ing cal nce ces of the orm 23i for ach of the rts lds the ing cal ity del :
p ( y x , 123 ) = ( 23r ) n / 123 n
ple ( ary ion )
in ary ion ems the put y is a ete dom ble ing ble mes of " ure " and " ess . " the tic ent of the del is lly med to be the lli ion ( cox , 123 ) .
in his ase , the ean pii is the ndi - nal ity of ing the put as " ess . " the ing cal ity del is a ure of lli ies :
p ( ylx , 123 ) = f g , ( cid : 123 ) liy ( cid : 123 ) ( 123 -
in ing the ing hms to be ted in the der of the per , it ill ove ful to ine ior ies ted ith the des of the ree .
the rms " ior " and " ior " ave ing in his ext ing the ing of the tem .
we fer to the ies gi and ili as ior ies , use hey are ted sed nly on the put x , out dge of the ing get put y .
a ior ity is ned nce oth the put and the get put are own .
ing yes ' ule , we ine the ior ies at the des of the ree as ows :
hi= gi ej pij ( y )
ei gi ej pij ( )
ji= y . 123 , p ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( y ) .
we ill lso ind it ful to ine the int ior ity hij , the uct of hi and
j 123 pij ( y )
h i gi
his ity is the ity hat ert ork ( i , j ) can be red to ave ted the ata , sed on dge of oth the put and the put .
nce ain , we ize hat all of ese ies are nal on the put x .
in per ees , the ior ity ted ith an ert ork is ply the uct of the nal ior ies ong the ath rom the oot of the ree to
the ood and a ent ent ing thm
dan and obs ( 123 ) ted a ent ent ing thm for the cal ure .
the thm was sed on ier ork by obs , dan , lan , and ton ( 123 ) , who ted the lem of ing in ure - of - rts res as a mum ood ion lem .
the log ood of a ata set a ' = ( ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) ) jn is ned by ing the log of the uct of n ies of the orm of ion 123 , ich lds the ing log ood :
123 ( 23; a ' ) =
i n ' 23t ) e
let us ume hat the ity ity p is ian ith an ity nce rix and hat the ink ion is the ity .
in his ase , by ing 123 ( e; a ' ) ith ect to the ers , we ain the ing ent ent ing ule for the ght rix
lij = p l h ~ t ) h ( t ) ( y ( t ) -
ere p is a ing ate .
the ent ent ing ule for the ith ght tor in the top - vel ing ork is ven by :
avi = p - ' ( h ) - 23t ) ) x ( i ) ,
and the ent ent ule for the jth ght tor in the i ' h wer - vel ing ork is
tes can lso be ned for nce ces ( dan & obs , 123 ) .
the thm ven by ons 123 , 123 , and 123 is a tch ing thm .
the rre - ing on - ine thm is ned by ply ing the ion ign and ing the ers ter ach lus ion .
hus , for ple ,
is the tic ate ule for the hts in the ( i , j ) th ert ork sed on the tth
+ pht ) ht ) t ( y ( t ) - pi ) ) xt ) t ( 123 )
the em thm
in the ing ons we lop a ing thm for the hme ure sed on the ion - ion ( em ) ork of ter , ird , and bin ( 123 ) .
we ive an em thm for the ure hat sts of the ive ion of a led set of ely - ted ast - res ems .
the em thm is a ral que for mum ood ion .
in ice em has een ied ost ely to sed ing ems .
his is rue of the ral ork ure and ine ing ure , in ich em has red in the ext of ing ( man , et al .
23; lan , 123 ) and ity ion ( cht , 123 ) , as ell as the ics ure .
in ich ons ude ing ata ems ( tle & , bin , 123 ) .
ure ity ion ( ner & ker , 123 ) , and tor sis ( ter , ird .
& bin .
123 ) .
her sed ing ion is the ing lem for den kov els , for ich the aum - lch ion las are a ial ase of em .
ere is ing in the em ork hat des its ion to ion or ion ms; ver , uch ons ave een few
em is an ive ach to mum ood ion .
ach ion of an em thm is sed of two eps : an ion ( e ) tep and a ion ( m ) tep .
the m tep ves the ion of a ood ion hat is ned in ach era - ion by the e tep .
if the thm ply ses the ion ing the m tep , her han ing the ion , hen the thm is red to as a zed em ( gem ) thm .
the ann ing thm ( ton & ski , 123 ) is a ral ork ple of a gem thm .
gem hms are ten tly wer to rge han
an ion of em lly ins ith the ion hat the ion of the ood ion 123 ( 23; a ' ) uld be ied if nly a set of nal les , led " iss - ing " or - den " les , ere own .
in his ext , we fer to the ble ata a ' as the " ete ata " and sit a " ete ata " set y hat des the ing les z .
we ify a ity del hat nks the ive ing les to the ual ata : p ( y .
zlx , 123 ) .
the thm of the ity p nes the " ete - ata ood , " l , ( 23; y ) .
the nal ood , 123 ( 23; a ' ) , is red to in his ext as the " ete - ata ood . " it is the hip een ese two ood ons hat tes the em thm .
ote hat the ete - ata ood is a dom ble , use the ing les z are in act own .
an em thm rst nds the ted lue of the ete - ata ood , ven the ved ata and the ent del .
his is the e tep :
q ( 123 , 123 ( pj ) = e ( 123 ( o; y ) i x ) ,
ere 123 ( p ) is the lue of the ers at the pth ion and the ion is ken ith ect to 123 ( p ) .
his tep lds a tic ion q .
the m tep zes his ion ith ect to 123 to ind the new ter tes o ( p+ ' ) :
123 ( p+l ) = max ! q ( o , o ( p ) ) .
the e tep is hen ted to eld an ved ate of the ete ood and the
" 3an ion is the " ing ion " del of ndt and sey ( 123 ) .
for her ion of
ing ion , see dan and xu ( 123 ) .
an ive tep of em ses a ter lue hat ses the lue of q , the pec - ion of the ete ood .
hat is the ect of uch a tep on the ete ood ? ter , et al .
ved hat an ase in q ies an ase in the ete ood :
123 ( 123 ( p+i ) ; x ) _ 123 ( 123 ( p ) ; xt ) .
ity ins nly at the ary nts of i ( wu , 123 ) .
hus the ood i ses lly ong the nce of ter tes ted by an em thm .
in ice his ies nce to a cal mum .
ing em to the hme ure
to lop an em thm for the hme ure , we ust ine ate " ing ata " so as to ify the ood ion .
we ine tor les zi and z .
23i , uch hat one and nly one of the zi is ual to one , and one and nly one of the z ~ ji is ual to one .
ese tor les ave an ion as the els hat ond to the ons in the ity del .
we lso ine the tor ble zij , ich is the uct of zi and jlj .
his ble has an ion as the bel hat ies the ert ( the ive ess ) in the ity del .
if the els zi , jli and zij ere own , hen the mum ood lem uld ple nto a ate set of ion ems for ach ert ork and a ate set of way ion ems for the ing rks .
ese ems uld be ved tly of ach her , ing a pid one - ass ing thm .
of rse , the ing les are not own , but we can ify a ity del hat nks hem to the ble ata .
his ity del can be ten in rms of the zj , as ows :
j - r j " g t )
g pij ( y ( ) ) zi ,
ing the act hat z 23t ) is an tor ble .
ing the thm of his ity del lds the ing ete - ata ood :
l , ( e; y ) =
j y z ) nfg ~ t ( ) gpj ~ y ( t ) )
ziv ln jli ij ( cid : 123 ) #i
, , ( + in p , 123 ( y ( t ) ) .
ote the hip of the ete - ata ood in ion 123 to the ete - ata ood in ion 123
the use of the tor les zij has wed the thm to be ght ide the ion gns , lly ing the ion lem .
we now ine the e tep of the em thm by ing the ion of the ete - ata
b ( l ) 23t + 23i + in 123 ( y ( t ) ) ) ,
ere we ave sed the act hat :
- 123 _x ( t ) _ ( p ) ) p ( t
p y ( t ) x ( t ) o .
. ( p ) ) g y , ( t ) , (
j , ( olp w oix ~ lvt ) o ( p ) )
( ote lso hat e ( zpt ) ix )
123 123 t ) and e ( z ( jia ' ) = h ( wt )
the m tep res ing q ( 123 , 123 ( p ) ) ith ect to the ert ork ers and the ing ork ers .
ing ion 123 , we see hat the ert ork ers nce the q ion nly ugh the rms ht ) in pij ( y ( t ) ) , and the ing ork ers nce the q ion nly ugh the fms 123 ) in gi ) and 123 hus the m tep ces to the ing ate ion ems :
arg max e 123 ) in pij ( y ( t ) ) ,
vp+ = xie
123 ) in g ~ t )
123 ) = rgm .
123 e 123 ) in
ach of ese ion ems are ves mum ood ems .
qua - ion 123 is ply the ral orm of a ted mum ood lem in the ity ity p ~ j .
ven our ion of pij , the log ood in ion 123 is a ted log ood for a lim .
an ent thm own as ely ted ast - res ( rls ) is ble to lve the mum ood lem for uch els ( agh & der , 123 ) .
we uss rls in dix a .
ion 123 ves ing the oss - opy een the ior ies h ( ) and the ior ies 23k .
his oss - opy is the log ood ted ith a lti - ial git ity del in ich the h ( t ) act as the put ons ( see dix b ) .
hus the ion in ion 123 is lso a mum ood lem for a lim and can be ved ing rls .
the ame is rue of ion 123 , ich is a ted mum ood lem ith put ons hi ) k and ion hts 23k .
in ary , the em thm hat we ave ned ves a ion of ior ies in the ter oop ( the e tep ) , and the ion of a set of rls ems in the ner oop ( the m tep ) .
we ize the thm as ows :
for ach ata air ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) , ute the ior ies hlt ) and h ( ' ) ing the
ent ues of the ers .
for ach ert ( i , j ) , lve an rls lem ith ons ( ( x ( t ) , y ( t ) ) ) n and ser -
ion hts ( hi 123
for ach top - vel ing ork , lve an rls lem ith ons ( ( xit ) , h ( t ) . ) in
for ach wer - vel ing ork , lve a ted rls lem ith ons
) ) i and ion hts ( h ( t ) ) n .
ate ing the ted ter ues .
a ast - res thm
in the ase of ion , in ich a ian ity del and an ity ink ion are sed , the rls oop for the ert rks ces to ted ast res , ich can be ved ( in one ass ) by any of the ard ast - res hms ( lub & van oan .
the ing rks ill ire ive ing .
ose , ver , hat we fit the ers of the ing rks ing ast res her han mum ood .
in his ase , we ght ope to ain an thm in ich the ing ork ers are fit by a one - ass thm .
to ate his ach , ote hat we can ess the rls lem for the ing rks as ows .
ing the oss - opy ( ion 123 ) ith ect to the ers vi ( ing the act hat ogi / loj = gi ( ij - gj ) , ere bij is the ker lta ) and ing the ves to ero lds the ing ons :
- gi ( 23t ) vi ) ) 123 = 123 ,
ich are a led set of ons hat ust be ved for ach i .
rly , for ach ing ork at the ond vel of the ree , we ain the ing ons :
" 123 ) ( 123 ) - jli ( x ( t ) , vij ) ) x ( t ) = 123 ,
ich ust be ved for ach i and j .
ere is one ect of ese ons hat ers hem ual .
all hat if the els z and p ) ere own , hen the ing rks uld be
lly ing a set of way ion ems .
the sed ors ( z : t ) - g ( cid : 123 ) t ) ) and ( - ( i ) - g ( it ) uld ear in the thm for ing ese ems .
ote hat ese ors are ces een tor les and ies .
in ons 123 and 123 , on the her and , the ors hat ive the thm are the ces ( 123 - g ~ i ) ) and ( h ( ich are ces een ies .
the em thm ely " lls in " the ing els ith ted ies hi and jli .
ese ted ies can be ght of as ets for the gi and the ili .
his sts hat we can ute " ual ets " for the ing ear ors & , and jlj , by ing the max ion .
( ote hat his
ion uld not be ble for the zi and jli , ven if hey ere own , use ero and one are not in the nge of the max ion . ) hus the ets for the i are the ues :
in ht ) - - in c ,
ere c = ek ctk is the ion ant in the max ion .
ote , ver , hat nts hat are mon to all of the i can be ted , use uch nts ear hen i are ted to gi .
hus the ues in h ! ' can be sed as ets for the i .
a lar ent ows hat the ues in h ( ' ) can be sed as ets for the cij , ith ion
the ity of his ach is hat nce ets are ble for the ear ors ( cid : 123 ) i and ij , the lem of ing the ers vi and vii ces to a led set of ted ast - res ems .
hus we ain an thm in ich all of the ers in the chy , oth in the ert rks and the ing rks , can be ned by ing ast - res ems .
his lds the ing ing thm :
for ach ata air ( x ( o ) , y ( t ) ) , ute the ior ies h t ) and h 23t ) ing the
ent ues of the ers .
for ach ert ( ij ) ,
lve a ted
ast - res lem ith ons
and ion hts ( h ( t ) n
for ach top - vel ing ork , lve a ast - res lem ith ons
( ( x ( 123 , in h ( ' 123 ) ) ) i .
for ach wer - vel ing ork , lve a ted ast - res lem ith ser -
ons f ( x ( t ) .
nkh ) ) n and ion hts ( ht ) ) n
ate ing the ted ter ues .
it is ant to ote hat his thm oes not eld the ame ter tes as thm 23; the ing ork als ( ht ) - g ~ t ) ) are ing fit by ast res her han mum ood .
the thm can be ght of as an ion to thm 123 , an ion sed on the ion hat the ces een hlt ) and g ( t ) are all .
his ion is ent to the ion hat the ure can fit the ing ion ace ( a ncy ion ) and the ion hat the ise is all .
ice we ave und hat the ast res thm rks bly ell , ven in the rly ges of ing hen the als can be rge .
the ity to use ast res is nly ing rom a nal int of iew .
one ble rid thm ves ing the ast res thm to rge kly to the ood of a ion and hen ing rls to ine the ion .
we ted thm 123 and thm 123 on a ear tem ion lem .
the ata ere ned rom a ion of a our - int bot arm ing in ree - nal
hme ( thm 123 ) hme ( thm 123 )
ive ror # chs
ble 123 : age ues of ive ror and ber of chs red for nce for the
ace ( fun & dan , 123 ) .
the ork ust arn the ard ics of the rm; a ate - ent ing rom int ues to int ons .
the ate of the arm is ded by ght eal - ued les : our ons ( rad ) and our lar ies ( rad / sec ) .
the que was ded as our eal - ued les ( n .
hus ere ere lve uts to the ing tem .
ven ese lve put les , the ork ust ict the our ons at the nts ( rad / 123 ) .
his ing is hly ear due to the ing ate ems and the ion ues een the nks of the arm .
we ted 123 , 123 ata nts for ing and 123 , 123 nts for ing .
for ach och ( i . e . , ach ass ugh the ing set ) , we ted the ive ror on the est set .
ive ror is ted as a tio een the ean red ror and the ean red ror hat uld be ned if the ner ere to put the ean lue of the ons for all ata
we red the nce of a ary chy to hat of a ion ork .
the chy was a our - vel chy ith 123 ert rks and 123 ing rks .
ach ert ork had 123 put its and ach ing ork had 123 put nit .
the ion ork had 123 den its , ich lds ely the ame ber of ers in the ork as in the chy .
the hme ure was ned by hms 123 and 123 , ing sky ion to lve the ted ast - res ems ( lub & van oan , 123 ) .
ote hat the hme hms ave no ree ers .
the ree ers for the ion ork ( the ing ate and the tum erm ) ere sen sed on a rse rch of the ter ace .
( ues of 123 and 123 ere sen for ese ers . ) ere ere ies ith cal ima ( or aus ) ing the ion thm : ive of ten uns led to rge to " ble " ror ues .
( as we ort in the ext ion , no uch ies ere red in the ase of on - ine ion ) .
we ort age nce mes and age ive ors nly for ose uns hat ged to " ble " ror ues .
all ten uns for oth of the hme hms ged to " ble " ror ues .
ure 123 ows the nce of the chy and the ion ork .
the hor - tal xis of the aph ves the ing ime in chs .
the cal xis ves ion nce as red by the age ive ror on the est set .
ble 123 rts the age ive ors for oth res red at the ima of the ive ror ves .
( ima ere ned by a nce of ree ive ses in the ive ror . ) we lso ort ues of ive ror for the est ear ion , the art thm , and the ars thm .
oth art and ars ere run our mes ,
. . . . . . . . .
hme ( thm 123 )
ure 123 : ive ror on the est set for a ion ork and a our - vel hme ure ned ith tch hms .
the ard ors at the ima of the ves are 123 for rop and 123 for hme .
nce for ach of the put les .
we ned the lts rom ese our ons to ute the tal ive ror .
two ons of art ere un; one in ich the its ere ted to be lel to the xes and one in ich ear ons of the put les
the ars thm res ces to be ade for the ues of two ral ame - ers : the mum ber of sis ons and the mum ber of ion rms .
ach sis ion in ars lds a ear ace ned ver a lar ion of the put ace , ing hly to the ion ted by a gle ert in the hme ure .
ore we ose a mum of 123 sis ons to ond to the 123 rts in the our - vel chy .
to ose the mum ber of ons ( mi ) , we red the nce of ars for mi = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 , and ose the lue hat ded the est nce ( mi = 123 ) .
for the ive hms , we lso ort the ber of chs red for nce .
use the ing ves for ese hms lly ave thy ils , we ned con - nce as the rst och at ich the ive ror ops hin ive ent of the mum .
all of the res hat we ied med tly ter han the est ear ion .
as ted , the art ure ith ear ons med ter han ( ' art ith xis - lel its . ' the hme ure ded a est ent
' it uld be ted hat art is at an age ive to the her hms in his son , use no ral ers ere xed for art .
hat is , art is wed to ind the est .
ree of any ize to fit
aa a a a
a a a lui ll i wl lau
i lj la l lj
ure 123 : a nce of ram ees for the hme ure .
ach ram ays the ion of ior ies oss the ing set at ach ode in the ree .
ver ars and art .
ion ced the est ive ror of the hms ted ( ing the ies ith nce ) .
ese ces in ive ror uld be ted ith ome ion .
the eed to set ree ers for ome of the res ( e . g . , ion ) and the eed to ake ral ces ( e . g . , ber of den its , ber of sis ons , ber of rts ) kes it ult to tch res .
the hme ure , for ple , ves ter ies hat are not ent in a ion ork .
a ing ork at a igh vel in the ree can " nch off " a nch of the ree , ing ess the ers in hat nch of the ree .
raw ter unt is ore nly a ery ugh ide to ure ty; ore ise res are ded ( e . g . , vc ion ) ore ive ive ons can be ade .
the ces een ion and hme in rms of nce ime are ore ive .
oth hme hms bly rge ore han two ers of ude ter
as own in ure 123 , the hme ure nds elf ell to cal ion .
his ure ays the ime nce of the ons of ior ies oss the ing set at ach ode of the ree .
at och 123 , ore any ing has ken ace , ost of the ior ies at ach ode are ely 123 oss the ing set .
as the ing eds , the ams ten out , lly ing dal ons in
iii li . ji
uh wi li
ure 123 : a nce ree for the hme ure .
ach lot ays the ean red ror ( mse ) for the our put its of the ped ree .
the ots are on a log ale ing ely ree ers of ude .
ich the ior ies are her one or ero for ost of the ing rns .
his ion is ive of gly arp its ing fit by the ing rks .
ote hat ere is a ncy for the its to be med ore dly at her els in the ree han at
ure 123 ows her cal ice hat can be ful for ing the way in ich a hme ure its a ata set .
his ure , ich we fer to as a " nce ree , " ows the nce ( ean red ror ) hat uld be ned at ach vel of the ree if the ree ere ped at hat vel .
we uct a ped ree at a ven vel by ing ach nal at hat vel ith a rix hat is a ted age of the rts low hat nal .
the hts are the tal ior ies ted ith ach ert oss the ing set .
the ror for ach put nit is hen ted by ing the est set ugh the ped ree .
as can be een in the ure , the nce is lly ler for per ees ( ote hat the ate of the ots is on a log ale ) .
the nce in the ght nch of the ree is ger han in the eft nch of the ree .
ion uch as his can be ful for ses of ory ata sis and for del ion .
an on - ine thm
the tch ast - res thm hat we ave bed ( thm 123 ) can be ted nto an on - ine thm by ing hat ear ast res and ted ear ast res ems can be ved by ive res hat ate the ter tes ith ach ive ata int ( ung & 23m , 123 ) .
our ion of ese ive hms is rd; ver , are ust be ken to dle the ion hts ( the ior ies ) tly .
ese hts nge as a ion of the ing ter ues .
his ies hat the ive ast res thm ust ude a , cay ter hat ows the tem to " get " der ues of the ior ies .
in his ion we ent the ons for the on - ine thm .
ese ons lve an ate not nly of the ers in ach of the rks .
123 but lso the age and ing of an rse nce rix for ach ork .
ach rix has ity xrn , ere m is the ity of the put tor .
( ote hat the ize of ese ces nds on the are of the ber of put les , not the are of the ber of trs .
ote lso hat the ate ion for the rse nce rix tes the rse rix ly; ere is ver a eed to ert ces . )
the on - ine ate ule for the ers of the ert rks is ven by the ing
123 ( 123 ) = 123 ( ) 123 + rh ( t ) h , ( 3tv ( t ) - a ( t ) x ( t ) tgt )
ere rij is the rse nce rix for ert ork ( ij ) .
his rix is ted via
\ 23r ( t , 123 ) - a - ' -
\ ( h - t ) ) - + x ( t ) tr l - 123 ) x ( t ) 123
ere a is the cay ter .
it is ing to ote the ity een the ter ate ule in ion 123 and the ent ule ted ier ( cf .
ion 123 ) .
ese tes are lly the ame , ept hat the lar p is ced by the rix r / . ) it can be own , ver , hat r ' )
is an ate of the rse ian of the ast - res ost ion ( ung & 23m , 123 ) , hus ion 123 is in act a tic ion to a ton - son hod her han a ent hod . '
lar ons ply for the tes of the ing rks .
the ate ule for the ers of the top - vel ing ork is ven by the ing ion ( for the ith put of the ing ork ) :
ere the rse nce rix si is ted by :
t+i ) = vlt ) + s ) ( hlt ) -
s ( t ) = a_ , s ! , _ , ) _
a + x ( t ) ts ( - 123 - ) x ( t )
lly , the ate ule for the ers of the wer - vel ing ork are as ows :
( t ) sh t ) h ( in
lnh ( 123 ) - ct ) 23x ( t )
' ote hat in his ion we use the erm " ers " for the les hat are lly led " hts "
in the ral ork ure .
we rve the erm " hts " for the ion hts .
" his is rue for xed ues of the ior ies .
ese ior ies are lso ing ver ime , ver , as red by the em thm .
the all nce ate of the thm is ned by the nce ate of em , not the nce ate of ton - son .
- - o - - - - e - o
ure 123 : ive ror on the est set for a ion ork and a our - vel chy ned ith on - ine hms .
the ard ors at the ima of the ves are 123 for rop and 123 for hme .
ere the rse nce rix si is ted by :
( 123 ) ) - 123 + x ( t ) tst . _ ) x - )
the on - ine thm was ted on the bot ics lem bed in the ous ion .
ary ons ced us of the ity of the cay ter ( a ) .
we lso und hat his ter uld be wly sed as ing eds - - on the rly als the ior ies are ing dly so hat the ces uld be yed dly , eas on ter als the ior ies ave zed and the ces uld be yed ess dly .
we sed a ple xed ule : a was zed to 123 and sed a xed ion ( 123 ) of the ing nce to 123 ery 123 ime eps .
the nce of the on - ine thm was red to an on - ine ion ork .
ter ngs for the ion ork ere ned by a rse rch ugh the ter ace , ing a lue of 123 for the ing ate and 123 for the tum .
the lts for oth res are own in ure 123
as can be een , the on - ine thm for ion is tly ter han the ing tch thm ( cf .
ure 123 ) .
his is lso rue of the on - ine hme thm , ich has rly ged hin the rst och .
ive ror ( # chs
ble 123 : age ues of ive ror and ber of chs red for nce for the
the mum ues of ive ror and the nce mes for oth res are ded in ble 123
we lso ide the ing ues for a ion of the on - ine ent thm for the hme ure ( ion 123 ) .
we lso med a set of ons ich ted a ety of ent hme res .
we red a one - vel chy ith 123 rts to ies ith ive els ( 123 rts ) , and six els ( 123 rts ) .
we lso ted two ree - vel ies , one ith ing ors of 123 , 123 , and 123 ( ing rom the top of the ree to the tom ) , and one ith ing ors of 123 , 123 , and 123
( ach ree - vel chy ned 123 rts . ) the lts are own in ure 123
as can be een , ere was a ant nce een the one - vel chy and the her res .
ere ere ler ces ong the lti - vel ies .
no ant nce was ved een the two ent 123 - vel res .
ing the hme ach res hat ces be ade ing the ral ers of the del , in lar the ber of els and the ing tor of the ree .
as ith her ble ion ues , it is ble to low ese ral ers to be sen sed at ast tly on the ata .
his del ion lem can be sed in a ety of ays .
in his per we ave zed a est set ach to del ion , ing the ing hen the ror on the est set hes a mum .
as is the ase ith her ral ork hms , his ure can be ied as a ity rol ure .
as we ave ted , hen the ers in the ing rks of an hme ure are all , the ire tem ces to a gle " ged " lim at the oot of the ree .
as the ing eds , the ers in the ing rks gin to row in ude and its are med .
hen a lit is med the ers in the hes of the ree on her ide of the lit are led and the ive ber of ees of dom in the tem ses .
his ase in ity kes ace lly as the ues of the ers ase and the its pen .
by ing the ing of the tem sed on the nce on a est set , we ain rol ver the ive ber of ees of dom in the ure .
her hes to del ion can lso be red .
one ral ach is to use dge ion in ach of the ert rks and the ing rks .
his ach nds lly to the on - ine ing in the orm of a " ght cay . " it is lso rth ing ian ues of the ind red in the ion ree ure by ine ( 123 ) , as ell as the mdl ods of lan and est ( 123 ) .
. . . . . . .
123 - vel ( a )
ure 123 : ive ror on the est set for hme ies ith ent res .
" 123 - vel ( a ) - ers to a 123 - vel chy ith ing ors of 123 , 123 , and 123 , and " 123 - vel ( b ) " ers to a 123 - vel chy ith ing ors of 123 , 123 , and 123
the ard ors for all ves at eir ive ima ere ely 123 .
ere are a ety of ies hat can be ade een the hme ure and ted ork in ics , ine ing , and ral rks .
in his ion we fly ion ome of ese ies and ake ome ive rks .
our ure is not the nly ear tor to ake ial use of lim ' s and the rls thm .
rls lso res tly in a nch of ric ics own as zed ive els ( gam ' s; tie & ani , 123 ) .
it is ing to ote the ary les of rls in ese two res .
in the gam del , the rls thm ars in the ter oop , ing an ted ent ble hat is fit by a ing ure in the ner oop .
in the hme ach , on the her and , the ter oop is the e tep of em and rls is in the ner oop .
his ity sts hat it ght be of est to der rid els in ich a hme is ted ide a gam or ice
we ave ady ned the ose ies een the hme ach and her ree - red ors uch as art and ars .
our ach ers rom ars and ted res - uch as the sis - ion ees of ger ( 123 ) - by ing its hat are que ith ect to the xes .
we lso fer rom ese res by ing a cal del - the ial git del - for the its .
we eve hat oth of ese res can lay a ole in ing ive ity - the use of que its uld end to ase
ias , and the use of oth ial git its uld lly ase nce .
que its lso der the hme ure ive to the lar ice of tes sed to ode the ata .
lly , it is rth ing the nce in phy ind ese res .
eas art and ars are ely ric , the hme ach has a ong vor of ric ics , via its use of zed ear els , ure els and mum ood .
lar nts can be ade ith ect to the ion ree ogy in the ine ing ure .
hms uch as 123 ild ees hat ave xis - lel its and use tic ing hms ( lan , 123 ) .
ore ent rch has ied ion ees ith que its ( thy , sif & erg , 23; off & ley , 123 ) .
one of ese ers , ver , ave ted the lem of ing ata as a cal lem .
nor ave hey ded a bal ess - of - fit ure for eir ees .
ere are a ety of ral ork res hat are ted to the hme tec - ure .
the lti - ion ect of hme is ent of ody ' s ( 123 ) lti - ion mac chy , ing in hat ody ' s els of ion are led tly by epa - ate rks .
the " ral ree " thm ( erg , ida , & son , 123 ) is a ion ree ith lti - yer ons ( mlp ' s ) at the non - als .
his ure can orm que ( or ear ) its , ver the mlp ' s are ned by a tic hat has no ear hip to all ion nce .
lly , ton and lan ( see lan , 123 ) ave tly sed ing the obs et al .
( 123 ) lar ure to a ree - red tem .
hey did not lop a ood ach to the lem , ver , ing ead a tic ing eme .
we ave ted a ree - red ure for sed ing .
we ave ped the ing thm for his ure hin the ork of mum ood sti - ion , ing eas rom ure del ion and zed ear del ory .
the mum ood ork ows ard ols rom cal ory to be ght to ear in ing nce res and res of nty for the ure ( cox & ley , 123 ) .
it lso ens the oor to the ian hes hat ave een und to be ful in the ext of sed ure del ion ( man , et al . , 123 ) .
ugh we ave not zed cal ues in his per , ere are a ber of nts hat are rth ing .
rst , the set of lly - hed ise ear ons hat we ave zed are rly nse in the set of ise ear ons on com - act ets in *i , hus it is ard to how hat the cal ure is nse in the set of ous ons on act ets in wm .
hat is , the ure is " ver - sal " in the nse of nik , mbe , and ite ( 123 ) .
rom his ult it uld eem ard to lop ncy lts for the ure ( cf .
man , ock , & sat , 23; one , 123 ) .
we are tly ing his ine of ent and are udy - ing the tic nal ies of xed ies .
ond , nce lts are ble for the ure .
we ave own hat the nce ate of the thm is ear in the ion ber of a rix hat is the uct of an rse nce rix and the ian of the log ood for the ure ( dan & xu , 123 ) .
lly , it is rth ing a ber of ble ons of the ork ted ere .
our ier ork on cal res of rts zed the yer ron as the rim - ive ion for the ert rks and ing rks ( dan & obs , 123 )
ion is ill ble , ugh we ose the em oof of nce ( cf .
dan & xu , 123 ) and we ose the ity to fit the sub - rks tly ith rls .
one ing ple of uch an ion is the ase ere the rts are uto - ors ( ard & amp , 123 ) .
in ich ase the ure its lly - ted cal pal ent de - ons .
her rea in sed ing rth ing is the non - ive ion of the cal ure .
uch a del uld be a ive ion of cal ure - ood ing and may ave ing ies to cal ing els .
lly .
it is lso of est to ote hat the ive ast res thm hat we zed in ing an on - ine ant of thm 123 is not the nly ble on - ine ach .
any of the ast ter hms ( kin , 123 ) uld lso be zed , ing ise to a ily of on - ine hms .
it is rth ing the ion of the ive hms to ess - ike oss - ion ons to tly ute the ges in ood hat ise rom ing or ing ers or ata nts .
nts : we ant to ank rey ton , ony son , suo ato , and iel ert for ful nts on the ipt .
