we ibe ent let ion ( lda ) , a ive tic del for ons of ete ata uch as ext ora .
lda is a ree - vel cal ian del , in ich ach tem of a ion is led as a ite ure ver an ing set of ics .
ach pic is , in urn , led as an ite ure ver an ing set of pic ies .
in the ext of ext ing , the pic ies ide an cit ion of a ent .
we ent ent ate nce ues sed on nal ods and an em thm for cal yes ter ion .
we ort lts in ent ing , ext ion , and ive ing , ing to a ure of ams del and the tic lsi
in his per we der the lem of ing ext ora and her ons of ete ata .
the oal is to nd ort ons of the ers of a ion hat ble ent ing of rge ons ile ing the ial cal ips hat are ful for sic sks uch as ion , lty ion , ion , and ity and nce
ant ess has een ade on his lem by ers in the eld of rma - ion val ( ir ) ( eza - tes and iro - eto , 123 ) .
the sic ogy sed by ir ers for ext raa ogy lly yed in ern net rch ces ach ent in the pus to a tor of eal ers , ach of ich pre - nts ios of nts .
in the lar tf - idf eme ( ton and ill , 123 ) , a sic ary of rds or rms is sen , and , for ach ent in the pus , a unt is med of the ber of ces of ach ord .
ter ble ion , his erm ncy unt is red to an rse ent ncy unt , ich res the ber of ces of a
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 vid m .
lei , rew y .
ng and ael i .
dan .
lei , ng , and dan
ord in the ire pus ( lly on a log ale , and ain bly zed ) .
the end ult is a erm - by - ent rix x ose mns ain the tf - idf ues for ach of the nts in the pus .
hus the tf - idf eme ces nts of ary gth to xed - gth sts of
ile the tf - idf ion has ome ing bly in its sic ion of ets of rds hat are ive for nts in the the ach lso des a ela - ely all unt of ion in ion gth and als tle in the way of ter - or tra - ent cal ure .
to ess ese ngs , ir ers ave sed ral her ity ion ues , ost bly ent tic ing ( lsi ) ( ter et al . , 123 ) .
lsi ses a lar lue ion of the x rix to ify a ear ace in the ace of tf - idf res hat res ost of the nce in the ion .
his ach can eve ant ion in rge ons .
ore , ter et al .
gue hat the ved res of lsi , ich are ear ons of the nal tf - idf res , can ure ome cts of sic tic ons uch as ymy and emy .
to ate the ims ing lsi , and to udy its ive ths and ses , it is ful to lop a ive tic del of ext ora and to udy the ity of lsi to ver cts of the ive del rom ata ( iou et al . , 123 ) .
ven a ive del of ext , ver , it is not ear why one uld opt the lsi one can mpt to eed ore tly , ing the del to ata ing mum ood or ian ods .
a ant tep ard in his ard was ade by ann ( 123 ) , who ted the tic lsi ( lsi ) del , lso own as the ect del , as an ive to lsi .
the lsi ach , ich we ibe in ail in ion 123 , els ach ord in a ent as a ple rom a ure del , ere the ure nts are ial dom les hat can be wed as ons of ics .
hus ach ord is ted rom a gle pic , and ent rds in a ent may be ted rom ent ics .
ach ent is ted as a ist of ing ons for ese ure nts and eby ced to a ity ion on a xed set of ics .
his ion is the ced ion ted ith
ile nns ork is a ful tep ard tic ing of ext , it is ete in hat it des no tic del at the vel of nts .
in lsi , ach ent is ted as a ist of ers ( the ing ons for ics ) , and ere is no ive tic del for ese ers .
his ads to ral ems : ( 123 ) the ber of ame - ers in the del ows rly ith the ize of the pus , ich ads to ous ems ith ing , and ( 123 ) it is not ear how to ign ity to a ent ide of the ing set .
to see how to eed ond lsi , let us der the tal tic ons ing the ass of ity ion ods hat des lsi and lsi .
all of ese ods are sed on the bag - of - rds hat the der of rds in a ent can be ted .
in the age of ity ory , his is an ion of ity for the rds in a ent ( ous , 123 ) .
ver , ugh ess ten ted lly , ese ods lso ume hat nts are le; the cic ing of the nts in a pus can lso be ted .
a sic ion rem due to de tti ( 123 ) hes hat any ion of ex - ble dom les has a ion as a ure nin ral an ite ure .
hus , if we ish to der ble ons for nts and rds , we eed to der ure els hat ure the ity of oth rds and nts .
ent let ion
his ine of ing ads to the ent let ion ( lda ) del hat we ent in the
it is ant to ize hat an ion of ity is not ent to an as - ion hat the dom les are ent and lly ted .
her , nge - ity lly can be ted as ing lly ent and lly dis - ted , ere the ing is ith ect to an ing ent ter of a ity ion .
lly , the int ion of the dom les is ple and red ile lly ver the ent ter , the int ion can be ite lex .
hus , ile an ion of ity is rly a jor ing ion in the ain of ext ing , and its pal ion is hat it ads to ods hat are lly ent , the ity ons do not ily ead to ods hat are ted to ple ncy nts or ear ons .
we aim to ate in the ent per hat , by ing the de tti rem sly , we can ure ant tra - ent cal ure via the ing ion .
it is lso rth ing hat ere are a rge ber of ons of the sic ion of ity , ing ous rms of ial ity , and hat ion heo - ems are ble for ese ses as ell ( nis , 123 ) .
hus , ile the ork hat we uss in the ent per ses on ple bag - of - rds els , ich ead to ure ons for gle rds ( ams ) , our ods are lso ble to her els hat lve res for ger ral its uch as n - ams or phs .
the per is zed as ows .
in ion 123 we uce sic ion and ogy .
the lda del is ted in ion 123 and is red to ted ent ble els in ion 123
we uss nce and ter ion for lda in ion 123
an ive ple of ing lda to ata is ded in ion 123
cal lts in ext ing , ext ion and ive ing are ted in ion 123
lly , ion 123 nts our
ion and ogy
we use the age of ext ons out the per , ing to ies uch as rds , nts , and ora .
his is ful in hat it lps to ide ion , rly hen we uce ent les ich aim to ure act ons uch as ics .
it is ant to ote , ver , hat the lda del is not ily ied to ext , and has ons to her ems ing ons of ata , ing ata rom ins uch as ive ing , ent - sed age val and ics .
eed , in ion 123 , we ent tal lts in the ive ing ain .
lly , we ene the ing rms : ( cid : 123 ) a ord is the sic nit of ete ata , ned to be an tem rom a ary xed by 123 , .
we ent rds ing nit - sis ors hat ave a gle ent ual to one and all her nts ual to ero .
hus , ing pts to ote nts , the vth ord in the ary is ted by a v - tor w uch hat wv = 123 and wu = 123 for u 23= v .
( cid : 123 ) a ent is a nce of n rds ted by w = ( 123 , 123 , .
, wn ) , ere wn is the nth ord in the nce .
( cid : 123 ) a pus is a ion of m nts ted by d = 123 , 123 ,
lei , ng , and dan
we ish to nd a tic del of a pus hat not nly gns igh ity to
ers of the pus , but lso gns igh ity to her lar nts .
ent let ion
ent let ion ( lda ) is a ive tic del of a pus .
the sic dea is hat nts are ted as dom res ver ent ics , ere ach pic is rac - zed by a ion ver rds . 123
lda mes the ing ive ess for ach ent w in a pus d : 123
ose n ( cid : 123 ) son ( x ) .
ose q ( cid : 123 ) dir ( a ) .
for ach of the n rds wn :
( a ) ose a pic zn ( cid : 123 ) ial ( q ) .
( b ) ose a ord wn rom p ( wnj zn , b ) , a ial ity ned on the pic
ral ing ons are ade in his sic del , ome of ich we ove in bse - ent ons .
rst , the ity k of the let ion ( and hus the ity of the pic ble z ) is med own and xed .
ond , the ord ies are ter - i j = p ( w j = 23j zi = 123 ) , ich for now we eat as a xed ity zed by a k ( cid : 123 ) v rix b ere b hat is to be ted .
lly , the son ion is not cal to ing hat ows and ore tic ent gth ons can be sed as ded .
ore , ote hat n is ent of all the her ata ing les ( q and z ) .
it is hus an ary ble and we ill lly ore its ess in the ent ent .
a k - nal let dom ble q can ake ues in the ( k 123 ) - lex ( a k - tor ies in the ( k 123 ) - lex if q i = 123 ) , and has the ing ity ity on his
i ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ( cid : 123 )
is a k - tor ith nts a
ja ) =
ere the ter a i > 123 , and ere g ( x ) is the mma ion .
the let is a ent ion on the lex it is in the ial ily , has ite nal ent ics , and is ate to the ial ion .
in ion 123 , ese ies ill ate the ent of nce and ter ion hms for lda .
, a set of n ics z , and
, the int ion of a pic ure q
ven the ers a and b a set of n rds w is ven by :
, b ) = p ( q
p ( njq ) p ( wnj zn , b ) ,
we fer to the ent ial les in the lda del as ics , so as to oit ext - ted ons , but we ake no cal ims ing ese ent les ond eir ity in ing ity ons on ets of rds .
ent let ion
ure 123 : cal del ion of lda .
the xes are tes ing tes .
the ter ate nts nts , ile the ner ate nts the ted ice of ics and rds hin a ent .
ere p ( njq ) is ply q z , we ain the nal ion of a ent :
i for the que i uch hat zi
ing ver q and ing ver
p ( njq ) p ( wnj zn , b )
, b ) =
, b ) =
p ( q d ja )
lly , ing the uct of the nal ies of gle nts , we ain the oba - ity of a pus :
p ( njq d ) p ( dnj zdn , b )
the lda del is ted as a tic cal del in ure 123
as the ure kes ear , ere are ree els to the lda ion .
the ers a and b are pus - vel ers , med to be led nce in the ess of ing a pus .
the les q d are ent - vel les , led nce per ent .
lly , the les zdn and wdn are ord - vel les and are led nce for ach ord in ach ent .
it is ant to ish lda rom a ple let - ial ing del .
a cal ing del uld lve a two - vel del in ich a let is led nce for a pus , a ial ing ble is ted nce for ach ent in the pus , and a set of rds are ted for the ent nal on the ter ble .
as ith any ing els , uch a del cts a ent to ing ted ith a gle pic .
lda , on the her and , ves ree els , and bly the pic ode is led dly hin the ent .
der his del , nts can be ted ith ple ics .
res lar to hat own in ure 123 are ten ied in ian cal ing , ere hey are red to as cal els ( man et al . , 123 ) , or ore ely as con - lly ent cal els ( ass and fey , 123 ) .
uch els are lso ten red to as ric cal yes els , a erm hat ers not nly to a lar del ure , but lso to the ods sed for ing ers in the del ( ris , 123 ) .
in - eed , as we uss in ion 123 , we opt the cal yes ach to ing ers uch as a and b in ple ons of lda , but we lso der ler ian hes
lei , ng , and dan
123 lda and ity a ite set of dom les 123 , .
, zng is aid to be ble if the int ion is ant to ion
is a ion of the ers rom 123 to n :
p ( 123 , .
, zn ) = p ( zp ( 123 ) , .
, zp ( n ) ) .
an ite nce of dom les is ely ble if ery ite nce is
de tis ion rem tes hat the int ion of an ely ble nce of dom les is as if a dom ter ere awn rom ome ion and hen the dom les in ion ere ent and lly ted , ned on
in lda , we ume hat rds are ted by ics ( by xed nal ons ) and hat ose ics are ely ble hin a ent .
by de tis rem , the rob - ity of a nce of rds and ics ust ore ave the orm :
p ( njq ) p ( wnj zn )
is the dom ter of a ial ver ics .
we ain the lda ion on nts in eq .
( 123 ) by ing out the pic les and ing q ith a let
123 a ous ure of ams
the lda del own in ure 123 is hat ore ate han the two - vel els ten ied in the cal cal ian ure .
by ing ver the den pic ble z , ver , we can and lda as a two - vel del .
in lar , let us orm the ord ion p ( wjq , b ) :
p ( wjq , b ) = ( cid : 123 )
p ( wj z , b ) p ( zjq ) .
ote hat his is a dom ity nce it nds on q
we now ene the ing ive ess for a ent w : 123
ose q ( cid : 123 ) dir ( a ) .
for ach of the n rds wn :
( a ) ose a ord wn rom p ( njq , b ) .
his ess nes the nal ion of a ent as a ous ure ion :
p ( njq , b ) ja ) are the ure hts .
, b ) =
ere p ( njq , b ) are the ure nts and p ( q ure 123 tes his ion of lda .
it cts the ion on p ( wjq , b ) ich is ced rom a lar nce of an lda del .
ote hat his ion on the ( v 123 ) - lex is ned ith nly k + kv ers yet its a ery ing dal ure .
ent let ion
ure 123 : an ple ity on ram ons p ( wjq , b ) der lda for ree rds and our ics .
the gle ded in the x - y ane is the 123 - d lex ing all ble ial ons ver ree rds .
ach of the ces of the ian - gle nds to a tic ion hat gns ity one to one of the ds; the int of an dge ves ity 123 to two of the ds; and the oid of the gle is the orm ion ver all ree rds .
the our nts ked ith an x are the ons of the ial ons p ( wj z ) for ach of the our ics , and the ace own on top of the lex is an ple of a ity ver the ( v 123 ) - lex ( ial ons of rds ) ven by lda .
hip ith her ent ble els
in his ion we are lda to ler ent ble els for the ram del , a ure of ams , and the lsi del .
ore , we ent a ied ric eta - ion of ese els ich hts eir key ces and ies .
123 ram del
der the ram del , the rds of ery ent are awn tly rom a gle
his is ted in the cal del in ure 23a .
lei , ng , and dan
( b ) ure of ams
( c ) lsi / ect del
ure 123 : cal del ion of ent els of ete ata .
123 ure of ams
if we ent the ram del ith a ete dom pic ble z ( ure 23b ) , we ain a ure of ams del ( gam et al . , 123 ) .
der his ure del , ach ent is gen - ted by rst ing a pic z and hen ing n rds tly rom the nal ial p ( wj z ) .
the ity of a ent is :
p ( w ) = ( cid : 123 )
hen ted rom a pus , the ord ons can be wed as ons of ics der the ion hat ach ent its tly one pic .
as the cal lts in ion 123 ate , his ion is ten too ing to ely del a rge ion of in ast , the lda del ows nts to bit ple ics to ent ees .
his is ved at a ost of ust one nal ter : ere are k 123 ers ted ith p ( z ) in the ure of ams , sus the k ers ted ith p ( q
ja ) in lda .
123 tic ent tic ing
tic ent tic ing ( lsi ) is her ely sed ent del ( ann , 123 ) .
the lsi del , ted in ure 23c , its hat a ent bel d and a ord wn are
ent let ion
lly ent ven an ved pic z :
p ( d , wn ) = p ( d ) ( cid : 123 )
p ( wnj z ) p ( zj d ) .
the lsi del pts to lax the ing ion ade in the ure of ams del hat ach ent is ted rom nly one pic .
in a nse , it oes ure the ity hat a ent may ain ple ics nce p ( zj d ) ves as the ure hts of the ics for a lar ent d .
ver , it is ant to ote hat d is a mmy dex nto the ist of nts in the ing set .
hus , d is a ial dom ble ith as any ble ues as ere are ing nts and the del rns the pic res p ( zj d ) nly for ose nts on ich it is ned .
for his son , lsi is not a ell - ned ive del of ts; ere is no ral way to use it to ign ity to a sly een ent .
a her lty ith lsi , ich lso ems rom the use of a ion xed by ain - ing nts , is hat the ber of ers ich ust be ted ows rly ith the ber of ing nts .
the ers for a k - pic lsi del are k ial tri - ons of ize v and m res ver the k den ics .
his ves kv + km ers and ore ear wth in m .
the ear wth in ers sts hat the del is one to ing and , lly , ing is eed a ous lem ( see ion 123 ) .
in rac - ice , a ing tic is sed to oth the ers of the del for ble dic - ive nce .
it has een own , ver , hat ing can cur ven hen ing is sed ( cul et al . , 123 ) .
lda mes oth of ese ems by ing the pic ure hts as a k - ter den dom ble her han a rge set of ual ers ich are tly ked to the ing set .
as bed in ion 123 , lda is a ell - ned ive del and zes ily to new nts .
ore , the k + kv ers in a k - pic lda del do not row ith the ize of the ing pus .
we ill see in ion 123 hat lda oes not fer rom the ame ing ues as lsi .
123 a ric ion
a ood way of ing the ces een lda and the her ent pic els is by ing the try of the ent ace , and ing how a ent is ted in hat try der ach del .
all our of the els bed ram , ure of ams , lsi , and lda ate in the ace of ons ver rds .
ach uch ion can be wed as a int on the ( v 123 ) - lex , ich we all the ord lex .
the ram del nds a gle int on the ord lex and its hat all rds in the pus ome rom the ing ion .
the ent ble els der k nts on the ord lex and orm a sub - lex sed on ose nts , ich we all the pic lex .
ote hat any int on the pic lex is lso a int on the ord lex .
the ent ent ble els use the pic lex in ent ays to ate a ent .
( cid : 123 ) the ure of ams del its hat for ach ent , one of the k nts on the ord lex ( hat is , one of the ers of the pic lex ) is sen mly and all the rds of the ent are awn rom the ion ing to hat int .
lei , ng , and dan
ure 123 : the pic lex for ree ics ded in the ord lex for ree rds .
the ers of the ord lex ond to the ree ons ere ach ord ( re - ely ) has ity one .
the ree nts of the pic lex ond to ree ent ons ver rds .
the ure of ams ces ach ent at one of the ers of the pic lex .
the lsi del ces an cal ion on the pic lex ted by x .
lda ces a oth ion on the pic lex ted by the our nes .
( cid : 123 ) the lsi del its hat ach ord of a ing ent mes rom a mly sen pic .
the ics are ves awn rom a ent - cic ion ver ics , i . e . , a int on the pic lex .
ere is one uch ion for ach nt; the set of ing nts hus nes an cal ion on the pic lex .
( cid : 123 ) lda its hat ach ord of oth the ved and een nts is ted by a mly sen pic ich is awn rom a ion ith a mly sen ter .
his ter is led nce per ent rom a oth ion on the pic lex .
ese ces are ted in ure 123
nce and ter ion
we ave bed the ion ind lda and ted its ual ges ver her ent pic els .
in his ion , we urn our ion to res for nce and ter ion der lda .
ent let ion
ure 123 : ( eft ) cal del ion of lda .
( ght ) cal del ion
of the nal ion sed to ate the ior in lda .
the key ial lem hat we eed to lve in der to use lda is hat of ing the ior ion of the den les ven a ent :
, b ) = p ( q , z , wja
i g ( a
ely , his ion is ble to ute in ral .
eed , to ize the tri - ion we ize ver the den les and ite eq .
( 123 ) in rms of the del ers :
, b ) =
a ion ich is ble due to the ing een q and b in the ion ver ent ics ( key , 123 ) .
key ows hat his ion is an ion der a lar ion to the let ion ich can be ted ith ial ric ons .
it has een sed in a ian ext for red ete ata to ent the ior on q ich , in hat ing , is a dom ter ( key et al . , 123 ) .
i j ) w j
ugh the ior ion is ble for act nce , a ide ety of oxi - ate nce hms can be red for lda , ing ace ion , nal ion , and kov ain nte rlo ( dan , 123 ) .
in his ion we ibe a ple ity - sed nal thm for nce in lda , and uss ome of the ves in
123 nal nce
the sic dea of ity - sed nal nce is to ake use of ens ity to ob - ain an ble wer und on the log ood ( dan et al . , 123 ) .
lly , one ers a ily of wer nds , xed by a set of nal ers .
the nal ers are sen by an ion ure hat pts to nd the est ble wer und .
a ple way to ain a ble ily of wer nds is to der ple ons of the nal cal del in ich ome of the ges and des are ved .
der in lar the lda del own in ure 123 ( eft ) .
the tic ing een q and b
lei , ng , and dan
ses due to the ges een q , z , and w .
by ing ese ges and the w des , and dow - ing the ing ied cal del ith ree nal ers , we ain a ily of ons on the ent les .
his ily is zed by the ing nal
q ( q , zjg , f ) = q ( q
ere the let ter g and the ial ers ( f 123 , .
, f n ) are the ree nal
ing ied a ied ily of ity ons , the ext tep is to set up an ion lem hat nes the ues of the nal ers g and f .
as we how in dix a , the tum of ing a ght wer und on the log ood tes tly nto the ing ion lem :
( g ( cid : 123 ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ) = min ( g , f )
d ( q ( q , zjg , f ) k p ( q , zjw , a
hus the ing ues of the nal ers are und by ing the ack - ler ( kl ) nce een the nal ion and the rue ior p ( q , zjw , a his ion can be ved via an ive xed - int hod .
in lar , we how in dix a . 123 hat by ing the ves of the kl nce and ing hem ual to ero , we ain the ing air of ate ons :
i + ( cid : 123 ) n
as we how in dix a . 123 , the ion in the ial ate can be ted as ows :
i ) jg ) = y
is the rst ive of the ogg
ion ich is ble via lor ima -
ons ( itz and gun , 123 ) .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ave an ing ive ion .
the let ate is a ste - ior let ven ted ons ken der the nal ion , e ( njf n ) .
the ial ate is kin to ing yes rem , p ( znj wn ) ( cid : 123 ) p ( wnj zn ) p ( zn ) , ere p ( zn ) is ted by the ial of the ted lue of its thm der the nal tri -
it is ant to ote hat the nal ion is lly a nal ion , ing as a ion of w .
his urs use the ion lem in eq .
( 123 ) is ted for xed w , and hus lds ing ers ( g ( cid : 123 ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ) hat are a ion of w .
we can ite the ing nal ion as q ( q , zjg ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) ) , ere we ave ade the nce on w cit .
hus the nal ion can be wed as an ion to the ior ion p ( q , zjw , a in the age of ext , the ing ers ( g ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) , f ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) ) are ent - cic .
in lar , we iew the let ers g ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) as ing a ion of a ent in the pic lex .
ent let ion
ize f 123
ni : = 123 / k for all i and n i : = a i + n / k for all i
for n = 123 to n
for i = 123 to k g 123 : = a + ( cid : 123 ) n
to sum to 123
ure 123 : a nal nce thm for lda .
we ize the nal nce ure in ure 123 , ith ate ing nts for g and f n .
rom the ode it is ear hat ach ion of nal nce for lda res o ( ( n + 123 ) k ) ons .
lly , we nd hat the ber of ons red for a gle ent is on the der of the ber of rds in the ent .
his lds a tal ber of ons hly on the der of 23k .
123 ter ion
in his ion we ent an cal yes hod for ter ion in the lda del ( see ion 123 for a ler ian ach ) .
in lar , ven a pus of nts d = 123 , 123 , .
, wmg , we ish to nd ers a hat ize the ( nal ) log ood of the ata :
, b ) =
log p ( wd ja
as we ave bed ove , the ity p ( wja
, b ) not be ted bly .
ver , nal nce des us ith a ble wer und on the log ood , a und ich we can ize ith ect to a and b .
we can hus nd ate cal yes tes for the lda del via an ing nal em ure hat zes a wer und ith ect to the nal ers g and f , and hen , for xed ues of the nal ers , zes the wer und ith ect to the del ers a and b
we ide a led ion of the nal em thm for lda in dix a . 123
the ion lds the ing ive thm :
( e - tep ) for ach ent , nd the ing ues of the nal ers fg ( cid : 123 )
d 123 dg .
his is one as bed in the ous ion .
( m - tep ) ize the ing wer und on the log ood ith ect to the del ers a and b .
his nds to ing mum ood tes ith ted ent ics for ach ent der the ate ior ich is ted in
lei , ng , and dan
ure 123 : cal del ion of the hed lda del .
ese two eps are ted til the wer und on the log ood ges .
in dix a . 123 , we how hat the m - tep ate for the nal ial ter b
can be ten out lly :
i j ( cid : 123 )
we her how hat the m - tep ate for let ter a ent ton - son hod in ich the ian is ted in ear ime .
can be ted ing an
the rge ary ize hat is tic of any ent ora tes ous ems of ity .
a new ent is ery ely to ain rds hat did not ear in any of the nts in a ing pus .
mum ood tes of the ial ers ign ero ity to uch rds , and hus ero ity to new nts .
the ard ach to ing ith his lem is to oth the ial ers , ing ive ity to all ary ems her or not hey are ved in the ing set ( nek , 123 ) .
ace ing is nly ed; his lly lds the ean of the ior ion der a orm let ior on the ial ers .
ely , in the ure del ing , ple ace ing is no ger ied as a mum a ori hod ( ugh it is ten ted in ce; cf .
gam et al . , 123 ) .
in act , by ing a let ior on the ial ter we ain an ble ior in the ure del ing , for uch the ame son hat one ins an ble ior in the sic lda del .
our sed ion to his lem is to ply ply nal nce ods to the ded del hat des let ing on the ial ter .
in the lda ing , we ain the ded cal del own in ure 123
we eat b as a k ( cid : 123 ) v dom rix ( one row for ach ure ent ) , ere we ume hat ach row is tly awn rom an ble let ion . 123 we now end our fer - nce res to eat the b i as dom les hat are wed ith a ior ion , 123
an ble let is ply a let ion ith a gle lar ter h
the ity is the ame
as a let ( eq .
123 ) ere a
for ach ent .
ent let ion
ned on the ata .
hus we ove ond the cal yes ure of ion 123 and der a ler ian ach to lda .
we der a nal ach to ian nce hat ces a ble ion on
the dom les b
, and z ( ias , 123 ) : q ( b 123 : k , 123 : m , q 123 : m jl , f , g ) =
qd ( q d , zd jf d , g d ) ,
ere qd ( q , zjf , g ) is the nal ion ned for lda in eq .
as is ily ied , the ing nal nce ure ain lds eqs .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) as the ate ons for the nal ers f and g , ely , as ell as an nal ate for the new nal ter l :
i j = h +
ing ese ons to nce lds an ate ior ion on b
, and z .
we are now eft ith the ter h on the ble let , as ell as the hy - rom ore .
our ach to ing ese ers is ain ( ate ) cal swe use nal em to nd mum ood tes of ese ers sed on the nal ood .
ese res are bed in dix a . 123
in his ion , we ide an ive ple of the use of an lda del on eal ata .
our ata are 123 , 123 nts rom a set of the rec ap pus ( man , 123 ) .
ter ing a ard ist of top rds , we sed the em thm bed in ion 123 to nd the let and nal ial ers for a 123 - pic lda del .
the top rds rom ome of the ing ial ons p ( wj z ) are ted in ure 123 ( top ) .
as we ave ped , ese ons eem to ure ome of the ing ics in the pus ( and we ave med hem ing to ese ics ) .
as we zed in ion 123 , one of the ges of lda ver ted ent ble mod - els is hat it des ell - ned nce res for sly een nts .
eed , we can ate how lda rks by ing nce on a eld - out ent and ing the ing nal ior ers .
ure 123 ( tom ) is a ent rom the rec ap pus ich was not sed for ter ion .
ing the thm in ion 123 , we ted the nal ior let ers g for the cle and nal ior ial ers f n for ach ord in the
all hat the ith ior let ter g
i is ely the ith ior let pa - i lus the ted ber of rds ich ere ted by the ith pic ( see eq .
ore , the ior let ers ted rom the ior let ers ate the ted ber of rds ich ere ted to ach pic for a lar ent .
for the ple cle in ure 123 ( tom ) , ost of the g i .
our ics , ver , are i ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) .
ing at the ing ons ver tly ger ( by his , we ean g rds ies the ics ich xed to orm his ent ( ure 123 , top ) .
i are ose to a
lei , ng , and dan
her ght mes rom ing the f n ers .
ese ons ate p ( njw ) and end to eak rds one of the k ble pic ues .
in the cle ext in ure 123 , the rds are lor ded ing to ese ues ( i . e . , the ith lor is sed if qn ( zi = 123 ) > 123 ) .
ith his ion , one can ify how the ent ics xed in the ent ext .
ile ing the wer of lda , the ior sis lso hts ome of its lim - ons .
in lar , the bag - of - rds ion ows rds hat uld be ted by the ame pic ( e . g . , iam lph rst ion ) to be ted to ral ent top - ics .
ing his ion uld ire ome orm of ion of the sic lda el; in lar , we ght lax the bag - of - rds ion by ing ial ity or ity of ord ces .
ons and cal lts
in his ion , we uss our cal ion of lda in ral lem ent ing , ent ion , and ive ing .
in all of the ure els , the ted ete log ood of the ata has cal max - ima at the nts ere all or ome of the ure nts are ual to ach her .
to oid ese cal ima , it is ant to ize the em thm ely .
in our nts , we ize em by ing ach nal ial ion ith ve nts , duc - ing eir ive tal gth to two rds , and ing oss the ole ary .
his is lly an ion to the eme bed in man and ila ( 123 ) .
123 ent ing
we ned a ber of ent ble els , ing lda , on two ext ora to are the ion nce of ese els .
the nts in the ora are ted as ed; hus , our oal is ity nwe ish to eve igh ood on a eld - out est set .
in lar , we ted the ity of a eld - out est set to ate the els .
the ity , sed by ion in age ing , is lly ing in the ood of the est ata , and is cly ent to the rse of the ric ean per - ord ood .
a wer ity ore tes ter ion nce . 123 ore lly , for a est set of m nts , the ity is :
ity ( est ) = exp
123 log p ( wd )
in our nts , we sed a pus of tic cts rom the c .
ans ity ( av - ery , 123 ) ing 123 , 123 cts ith 123 , 123 que rms , and a set of the rec ap pus ing 123 , 123 ire les ith 123 , 123 que rms .
in oth ses , we eld out 23% of the ata for est ses and ned the els on the ing 23% .
in ing the ata ,
ote hat we ply use ity as a ure of rit for ing els .
the els hat we are are all ram ( bag - of - rds ) els , has we ave sed in the are of est in the rma - ion val ext .
we are not ing to do age ing in his ran ise hat uld ire us to ine ram or her her - der els .
we ote in ing , ver , hat ons of lda uld be red hat lve let - ial ver ams ead of ams .
we ave the ion of uch ons to age ing to ure ork .
ent let ion
ide " \ed cai "
ess ret are
the iam lph rst ion ill ive 123 ion to oln ter , oli - tan era co . , new ork nic and ard ool .
our ard elt hat we had a eal ity to ake a ark on the ure of the ing rts ith ese nts an act ery bit as ant as our nal eas of ort in lth , cal rch , ion and the ial ces , rst ion ent lph a .
rst aid day in ing the nts .
oln ers are ill be 123 , 123 for its new ing , ich ill use ung sts and ide new lic ies .
the tan era co .
and new ork nic ill ive 123 , 123 ach .
the ard ool , ere sic and the ing rts are ght , ill get 123 , 123
the rst ion , a ing ter of the oln ter ted ate und , ill ake its ual ual 123 , 123
ure 123 : an ple cle rom the ap pus .
ach lor des a ent tor rom ich
the ord is ely ted .
lei , ng , and dan
hed ixt .
ams old in lsi
ber of ics
hed ixt .
ams old in lsi
ber of ics
ure 123 : ity lts on the ode ( top ) and ap ( tom ) ora for lda , the ram
del , ure of ams , and lsi .
ent let ion
ics ( k ) ity ( ult .
ixt . ) ity ( lsi )
ble 123 : ing in the ure of ams and lsi els for the ap pus .
lar hav -
ior is ved in the ode pus ( not ted ) .
we ved a ard ist of 123 top rds rom ach pus .
rom the ap ata , we her ved rds hat red nly nce .
we red lda ith the ram , ure of ams , and lsi els bed in sec - ion 123
we ned all the den ble els ing em ith tly the ame ing ria , hat the age nge in ted log ood is ess han 23% .
oth the lsi del and the ure of ams fer rom ous ing ues , ugh for ent ons .
his non is ted in ble 123
in the ure of ams del , ing is a ult of ked ors in the ing et; a non iar in the per - sed ing , ere his del is own as the ive yes del ( nie , 123 ) .
his ads to a rly tic ing of the ing nts ( in the e - tep ) ich is sed to ine the ord ies in ach ure ent ( in the m - tep ) .
a sly een ent may est t one of the ing ure nts , but ill bly ain at ast one ord ich did not cur in the ing nts hat ere ned to hat ent .
uch rds ill ave a ery all ity , ich ses the ity of the new ent to ode .
as k ses , the nts of the ing pus are ned nto ner ons and hus uce ore rds ith all ies .
in the ure of ams , we can ate ing ugh the nal ian oth - ing eme ted in ion 123 .
his res hat all rds ill ave ome ity der ery ure ent .
in the lsi ase , the ard ing lem is ted by the act hat ach ent is wed to bit a ent ion of ics .
ver , lsi nly ers to the ing doc - nts and a ent ing lem ses hat is due to the ity of the p ( zjd ) ter .
one ble ach to ing ity to a sly een ent is by ing ver d :
p ( w ) = ( cid : 123 )
p ( wnj z ) p ( zj d ) p ( d ) .
lly , we are ing ver the cal ion on the pic lex ( see ure 123 ) .
his hod of nce , ugh lly und , ses the del to ert .
the ent - cic pic ion has ome nts ich are ose to ero for ose ics hat do not ear in the ent .
hus , ain rds ill ave ery all ity in the tes of
lei , ng , and dan
ach ure ent .
hen ing the ity of a new ent ugh nal - ion , nly ose ing nts ich bit a lar ion of ics ill ute to the ood .
for a ven ing nts pic ons , any ord ich has all ity in all the ent ics ill use the ity to ode .
as k ets ger , the nce hat a ing ent ill bit ics hat ver all the rds in the new ent ses and hus the ity ows .
ote hat lsi oes not ert as kly ( ith ect to k ) as the ure of ams .
his ing lem lly ems rom the ion hat ach ure ent bit the ame pic ons as ere een in one or ore of the ing nts .
ven his int , we are not ree to ose the ost ely ons of ics for the new ent .
an ive ach is the ing - in tic ted by ann ( 123 ) , ere one res the p ( zjd ) ers and ets p ( new ) .
ote hat his ves the lsi del an air age by ing it to ret k 123 ers to the est ata .
lda ers rom her of ese ems .
as in lsi , ach ent can bit a ent ion of ing ics .
ver , lda can ily ign ity to a new nt; no ics are ded for a new ent to be wed ith a ent set of pic ons han ere ted ith nts in the ing pus .
ure 123 nts the ity for ach del on oth ora for ent ues of k .
the lsi del and ure of ams are bly ted for ing .
the ent ble els orm ter han the ple ram del .
lda tly rms ter han the
123 ent ion
in the ext ion lem , we ish to ify a ent nto two or ore lly ex - ive ses .
as in any ion lem , we may ish to der ive hes or ive hes .
in lar , by ing one lda ule for ach ass , we ain a ive del for ion .
it is lso of est to use lda in the ive ork , and his is our cus in his ion .
a ing ect of the ent ion lem is the ice of res .
ing ual rds as res lds a ich but ery rge ure set ( ims , 123 ) .
one way to uce his ure set is to use an lda del for ity ion .
in lar , lda ces any ent to a xed set of eal - ued the ior let ers g ( cid : 123 ) ( w ) ted ith the ent .
it is of est to see how uch ory ion we ose in ing the ent ion to ese ers .
we ted two ary ion nts ing the ers - 123 set
set ins 123 nts and 123 , 123 rds .
in ese nts , we ted the ers of an lda del on all the nts , out nce to eir rue ass bel .
we hen ned a ort tor ine ( svm ) on the low - nal ons ded by lda and red his svm to an svm ned on all the ord res .
ing the ght are age ( ims , 123 ) , we red an svm ned on all the ord res ith ose ned on res ced by a 123 - pic lda del .
ote hat we uce the ure ace by 123 ent in his ase .
ent let ion
ion of ata sed for ing
ion of ata sed for ing
ure 123 : ion lts on two ary ion ems rom the ers - 123 set for ent ons of ing ata .
aph ( a ) is arn vs .
not arn .
aph ( b ) is ain vs .
not ain .
old in lsi hed ixt .
ams
ber of ics
ure 123 : lts for ive ing on the vie ata .
ure 123 ows our lts .
we see hat ere is tle ion in ion nce in ing the lda - sed es; eed , in ost all ses the nce is ved ith the lda res .
ugh ese lts eed her ion , hey est hat the pic - sed ion ded by lda may be ful as a ast ing thm for ure ion in
lei , ng , and dan
123 ive ing
our nal ent ses the vie ive ing ata .
in his ata set , a ion of ers tes eir red vie ces .
a ser and the ies sen are ous to a ent and the rds in the ent ( ely ) .
the ive ing ask is as ows .
we ain a del on a lly ved set of ers .
hen , for ach ved ser , we are own all but one of the ies red by hat ser and are ked to ict hat the eld - out vie is .
the ent hms are ted ing to the ood hey ign to the eld - out vie .
ore ely , ene the ive ity on m est ers to be :
ive - ity ( est ) = exp
123 log p ( wd , nd
we ted the vie set to ers hat ely ted at ast 123 ies ( a ive ing is at ast our out of ve ars ) .
we ded his set of ers nto 123 ing ers and 123
der the ure of ams del , the ity of a vie ven a set of ved ies
is ned rom the ior ion ver ics :
p ( obs ) = ( cid : 123 )
in the lsi del , the ity of a eld - out vie is ven by the ame ion ept hat p ( obs ) is ted by ing in the sly een ies .
lly , in the lda del , the ity of a eld - out vie is ven by ing ver the ior let :
p ( wjz ) p ( zjq ) p ( q obs ) dq ,
ere p ( q obs ) is ven by the nal nce hod bed in ion 123 .
ote hat his ity is ent to ute .
we can nge the sum and ral ign , and ute a ear ion of k let ons .
ith a ary of 123 ies , we nd the ive ies ted in ure 123
ain , the ure of ams del and lsi are ted for ing , but the est ive ies are ned by the lda del .
we ave bed ent let ion , a ble ive tic del for lec - ons of ete ata .
lda is sed on a ple ity ion for the rds and ics in a nt; it is ore zed by a ard ion of de tis pre - ion rem .
we can iew lda as a ity ion que , in the rit of lsi , but ith per ing ive tic ics hat ake nse for the ype of ata hat it els .
act nce is ble for lda , but any of a rge ite of ate nce lgo - hms can be sed for nce and ter ion hin the lda ork .
we ave ted a ple ity - sed nal ach for nce , ing hat it lds a ast
ent let ion
thm ing in ble ive nce in rms of est set ood .
her hes hat ght be red ude ace ion , her - der nal ech - ues , and nte rlo ods .
in lar , ink and pen ( 123 ) ave ted a ral ogy for ing low - der nal wer nds nto her - der ria - nal nds .
it is lso ble to eve her acy by ing ith the ent of ing a und , and eed nka and rty ( 123 ) ave own hat ved ial acy can be ned for the lda del via a her - der nal que own as ex - ion ion .
lly , ths and ers ( 123 ) ave ted a kov ain nte rlo thm for lda .
lda is a ple del , and ugh we iew it as a tor to ods uch as lsi and lsi in the ing of ity ion for ent ons and her ete cor - ora , it is lso ded to be ive of the way in ich tic els can be led up to ide ful ial ery in ins ing ple els of ure .
in - eed , the pal ges of ive els uch as lda ude eir ity and eir ity .
as a tic ule , lda can be ily ded in a ore lex del a rty hat is not sed by lsi .
in ent ork we ave sed irs of lda les to del ips een ges and eir ing ive ons ( lei and dan , 123 ) .
ver , ere are ous ble ons of lda .
for ple , lda is ily ded to ous ata or her non - ial ata .
as is the ase for her ure els , ing ite ure els and den kov els , the ion ity p ( wnj zn ) tes nly a ood lue to the nce res for lda , and her ods are ily ted in its ace .
in lar , it is ard to lop a ous ant of lda in ich ian les are sed in ace of als .
her ple ion of lda mes rom ing res of let ons in the ace of the gle let of lda .
his ows a her ure in the ent pic ace and in lar ows a orm of ent ing hat is ent rom the ing hat is ved via red ics .
lly , a ety of ons of lda can be red in ich the ons on the pic les are ted .
for ple , we uld nge the ics in a ime ies , lly ing the ull ity ion to one of ial ity .
we uld lso der lly ble els in ich we ion on ous es; hus , for ple , the pic ion uld be ned on res uch as aph or nce , ing a ore ful ext del hat kes use of ion ned rom a ser .
his ork was ted by the nal nce ion ( nsf ant iis - 123 ) and the ary rch ram of the ent of nse ( uri 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 ) .
rew y .
ng and vid m .
lei ere lly ted by ips rom the oft
