we int bin mat fac , a nov mod for uns ma - tri dec .
the dec is lea by tti a non - par bay pro mod wit bin lat var to a mat of dya dat .
unl bi - clu mod , whi ass eac row or col to a sin clu bas on a cat hid fea , our bin fea mod ree the pri bel tha ite and att can be ass wit mor tha one lat clu at a tim .
we pro sim lea and inf rul for thi new mod and sho how to ext it to an inn mod in whi the num of fea is not a pri xed but is all to gro wit the siz of the dat .
123 dis rep for dya dat
one of the maj goa of pro uns lea is to dis und or hid str in a dat by usi lat var to des a com dat gen pro .
in thi pap we foc on dya dat : our dom hav two nit set of obj / ent and obs - tio are mad on dya ( pai wit one ele fro eac set ) .
exa inc spa mat of mov - vie rat , wor - doc cou or pro - cus pur .
a sim way to cap str in thi kin of dat is to do bi - clu ( pos usi mix mod ) by gro the row and ( ind or sim ) the col ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the mod as -
sum in suc a cas is tha mov com in typ and vie in typ and tha kno com str : eac ite ( row ) has ass wit it an uno vec of bin fea sim eac att ( col ) has a hid vec of bin fea .
kno the mat int ( a dis den by ) the pro , whe and are bin fea mat , and is a rea - val wei mat .
bel , we dev thi bin mat fac
the typ of mov and typ of vie is suf to pre the res .
clu or mix mod are qui res the maj dis is tha the do not adm a com or dis rep bec ite can sim bel to sev cla .
( a mov , for exa , mig be exp as com fro a clu of dra or com a vie as a sin mal or as a you mot . ) we mig ins pre a mod ( e . g .
( 123 , 123 ) ) in whi obj can be ass to mul lat clu : a mov mig be a dra and hav won an os - car and hav sub a vie mig be sin and fem and a uni gra .
inf in suc mod fal und the bro are of fac lea ( e . g .
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) , in whi mul int lat cau exp eac obs dat .
fea of the ite and the fea of the att are suf to gen ( bef noi ) the res at tha loc in the mat .
in eff , we are fac a rea - val dat ( res )
in thi pap , we ass tha bot dat ite ( row ) and att ( col ) hav thi kin of
( b ) bmf sho pic .
fig 123 : ( a ) the gra mod rep of the lin - gau bmf mod .
the con -
( bmf ) mod usi bay non - par pri ove the num and val of the uno bin fea and the unk wei .
tra par and bet wei for the col ofx are rep by the sym ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) .
bin mat fac is a mod of an dya dat mat wit exc row and col .
the ent ofx can be rea - val , bin , or cat bmf mod sui for eac typ are des bel .
ass wit eac row is a lat bin fea vec i; sim eac col has an uno bin vec .
the pri par are rep by a mat of int wei . x is gen by a xed obs pro app whe are ext par spe to the mod var .
thr pos par for for the noi ( obs ) dis are : gau , wit mea log , wit mea and poi , wit mea ( and var ) uwv mat and the wei .
we ado the sam pri ove bin mat as pre des in ( 123 ) .
for nit siz mat wit row and col , we gen a bia ( cid : 123 ) k ind for eac col usi a bet pri ( den ) and the con on thi bia gen the ent in col ind fro a ber wit mea ( cid : 123 ) k .
( cid : 123 ) kj ( cid : 123 ) ; ( cid : 123 ) b ( cid : 123 ) =; ( cid : 123 ) whe ik .
the hyp on the con ( cid : 123 ) is a gam dis ( den ) , the bia ( cid : 123 ) are eas int out , whi cre dep bet the row , alt the rem exc .
the res pri dep onl on the num of act fea in eac col .
an ide pri is use onv , wit row and col , but wit dif con pri ( cid : 123 ) .
the var ( cid : 123 ) was set to1 for all exp .
the app pri dis ove wei dep on the obs dis .
for the lin - gau var , a con pri onw is a mat nor wit pri mea
oth par for are als pos .
for ill pur , we wil use the lin - gau mod thr thi pap thi can be tho of as a two - sid ver of the lin - gau mod fou in ( 123 ) .
( ele ) to the lin inn pro of the fea and wei , whi is the fac or app of the dat :
to com the des of the mod , we nee to spe pri dis ove the fea
who sha and sca hyp con the exp fra of zer / one in the mat .
123 bmf mod des
123 inf of fea and par
ter nor to com its exa mar ) .
how , as wit man oth non - par bay mod , we can emp mar cha mon car ( mcm ) met to cre an ite pro - dur whi , if run for suf lon , wil pro cor pos sam .
123 fin bin lat fea mat
onl in ter of the bin fea .
thi is tru , for exa , whe we pla a gau pri on the wei and use a lin - gau out pro .
exc row and a pot inn num of col ( alt the exp num of col whi are not ent zer rem nit ) .
suc a dis , the ind buf pro ( ibp ) was des by ( 123 ) and is ana to the dir pro and the ass chi res pro ( crp ) ( 123 ) .
for , as we wil see , inf wit thi inn pri is not onl tra , but is als nea as efc as the nit ver .
cov ( cid : 123 ) .
the sca ( cid : 123 ) of the wei and out pre ( cid : 123 ) ( if nee ) hav gam in cer cas , whe the pri on the wei is con to the out dis mod , the wei may be ana int out , exp the mar dis of the dat rem , the bet - ber pri dis ove ( and sim ) can eas be ext to the cas whe ! 123 , cre a dis ove bin mat wit a xed num of as wit man oth com hie bay mod , exa inf of the lat var and in the bmf mod is int ( ie the is no efc way to sam exa fro the pos - the pos dis of a sin ent inu ( orv ) giv all oth mod par is pro - fro int out the bia ( cid : 123 ) in the bet - ber mod and is pro the num of sin ent ofu ( orv ) can be don usi the fol upd : ik= ( cid : 123 ) 123 ik= ( 123 ) whe hk , uik exc ent , and is a nor con .
( con on ( cid : 123 ) ; and ( cid : 123 ) is imp . ) whe con onw , we onl nee to cal the rat of lik - hoo cor to row .
( not tha thi is not the cas whe the wei are int out . ) thi rat is a sim fun of the mod pre ihv ( whe ik= ) and ^xi ihv ( whe ik= ) .
in the lin - gau cas : w and hyp .
to sim the pre , we con a vec rep of our var .
let be an col vec tak col - wis fro , w be a col vec tak col - wis fro and be a bin mat whi is the kro pro v ( cid : 123 ) u .
( in mat not , x=x : ;w= : and . ) in thi not , the dat dis is wri as : xja ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) aw; ( cid : 123 ) .
giv val for and , sam can be dra for , ( cid : 123 ) , and ( cid : 123 ) usi the fol pos dis ( whe con on w; ( cid : 123 ) ; ( cid : 123 ) ;a ( cid : 123 ) ;b ( cid : 123 ) ;a ( cid : 123 ) ;b ( cid : 123 ) is imp ) :
tio to the pro of the con pri and the dat lik .
the con pri com
act ent in oth row of the sam col plu a ter for new act .
gib sam for
in the lin - gau cas , we can eas der ana gib sam upd for the wei
let set a hav at lea one non - zer ent
col , inc the set of col whe
123 inn bin lat fea mat
and the cou inn num of all - zer col .
sam val for ele in row
one of the mos ele asp of non - par bay mod is the abi to use a pri whi all a cou inn num of lat fea .
the num of ins fea is aut adj dur inf and dep on the amo of dat and how man fea it sup .
rem , we can do mcm sam usi suc inn pri wit ess no
not tha we do not hav to exp com the mat .
for com the pos of lin - gau wei , the mat can be com asa .
sim , the exp is con by com and tak the ele col - wis .
com pen ove the nit cas .
to der the upd ( e . g .
for row of the mat ) , it is use to con par the col ofu int two set as sho bel .
in row oth tha .
let set b be all oth
the onl non - zer ent are fou in row
i of set a giv eve els is str -
tio ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ; as ! 123 and in set a we int in the num of ent ? b in set b whi wil be tur on in row .
sam the num of ent set to1 can be don wit met - has upd .
let ? bjb poi ? bj ( cid : 123 ) = ( cid : 123 ) 123 be the pro dis for a mov whi rep the cur act ent wit ? b act ent in set b .
the rev pro isb ? b .
the acc , whe ! ? b is thi ass a con sit in whi the wei are exp int out of the mod to com the mar lik ? b .
in the non - con cas , a mor com - cat pro is req .
ins of pro ? b , we joi pro ? b and ass fea par ? b fro the pri dis .
in the lin - gau mod , whe ? b is a set of ? b;w ? bjb poi ? bj ( cid : 123 ) = ( cid : 123 ) 123 nor ? bj ? b; ( cid : 123 ) we nee act sam onl the nit por ofw ? b whe ik=
as in the con cas , the the gib upd des abo for the ent ofu , v and are the sim mov we cou
whe sam new val for set b , the col are exc , and so we are rea onl
war , and inv gib upd alm ide - tic to tho in the nit cas han by equ -
wei for fea in set b , the pro dis is :
acc rat red to the rat of dat lik :
123 fas mix tra pro
mak in a mar cha mon car inf pro for the bmf mod .
how , the
lim loc upd may res in ext slo mix .
in pra , we oft imp lar mov in ind spa usi , for exa , met - has pro on mul fea
and com the pro und the con pri of pro the cur con .
the acc pro of suc a pro is ( the max of uni and ) the rat of lik bet the new pro con and the cur con .
spl - mer mov may als be use for efc sam fro the pos dis of the bin fea mat .
jai and nea ( 123 ) des spl - mer alg for dir pro mix mod wit non - con com dis .
we hav dev and imp sim spl - mer pro for bin mat wit ibp pri .
due to spa lim , we
ran .
if the are in the sam col , we pro spl tha col if the are in dif col , we pro mer the col .
the key dif bet thi alg and the jai and nea alg is tha the bin fea are not con to sum to uni in eac row
a maj rea for bui gen mod of dat is to be abl to imp mis dat val giv som obs .
in the lin - gau mod , the pre dis at eac ite of the mar cha is a gau dis .
the int wei can be ana int out at eac ite , als res in a gau pos , rem sam noi con by hav the wei exp rep .
com the exa pre dis , how , con onl on the mod hyp , is ana int : it req int
for row sim .
for exa , we can pro new val for sev col in row of mat by sam fea val ind fro the con pri .
to com the rev pro , we ima for the cur con of tho fea for row pre her onl a ske of the pro .
two non ent inu are sel uni at spl - mer alg als per res gib sca on col ofu to inc acc ove all bin mat and , and all oth nui par ( e . g . , the wei and pre - by ave pre dis , our alg imp int ove and .
exp , we sho sam fro the pos ofu and to hel exp wha the mod is wil dep , for exa , on the cur val of ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) ( hig val wil res in mor fea ) tur .
dat con of vec of siz the gen pro is as fol : sin has the sam num of row as the dim of the ima , v is xed to be a set of ver and hor bar ( whe res int an ima ) . u is sam fro the ibp , and glo pre ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) are set to1
the wei are sam fro zer mea gau .
mod est ofu and wer ini fro an ibp pri .
the exp rec usi mcm sam ofu , v , and .
des the rel hig
a toy pro com use to ill add fea or mul cau mod is the bar pro ( ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) .
ver and hor bar are com in som way to gen dat sam - ple .
the goa of the ill is to sho rec of the lat str in the for of bar .
we hav mod the typ usa of bar to acc the lin - gau bmf wit inn fea - whe eac vec can be res int a squ ima .
sio ) .
ins we int ove the par imp by ave pre dis fro man mcm ite .
thi pos , whi is con onl on the obs dat and hy - per , is hig com , pot mul , and non - lin fun of the obs
in fig 123 we dem the per of the lin - gau bmf on the bar dat .
we tra the bmf wit 123 tra exa of the typ sho in the top row in fig 123
som exa hav the bot hal lab mis and are sho in the fig wit con gre val .
to han thi , we res the val at eac ite of the mar cha .
the bot row sho
doi , but we str tha the pos may hav sig mas on man pos bin mat .
the num of fea and the deg of ove wil var ove mcm ite .
suc var
and pre val ( hig wei pre res in les var in wei ) .
123 mod bar pro
noi lev in the dat , the mod is abl to cap the com rel bet bar and wei .
the rec of ver bar is ver goo .
the rec of hor bar is goo as wel , con tha the mod has no inf reg the exi of hor bar on the bot hal .
( a ) dat sam
( b ) noi - fre dat
bas sol on the inf in the top - hal of the ori dat , the are the noi - fre nea
( c ) ini rec
( d ) mea rec
( e ) nea nei
fig 123 : bar rec .
( a ) bar ran sam fro the com dat .
the bot hal of the bar wer rem and lab mis dur lea .
( b ) noi - fre ver of the sam dat .
( c ) the ini rec .
the mis val hav bee set to the exp val ,
123 , to hig the mis reg .
( d ) the ave mcm rec of the ent ima .
( e ) nei in pix spa . v fig 123 : bar fea .
the top row sho val ofv and sec row sho a sam ofv and fro the mar cha . wv> set of bas ima whi can be add tog wit bin coe ( u ) to cre ima .
in fig 123 we sho the gen , or tru , val ofv and fea fro the mar cha .
bec the mod is gen by add mul are fai sim to the gen cap fea .
the lea com of ove bar str ( lea ) .
we tra log bmf wit 123 exa eac of dig , 123 , and fro the usp dat .
in sho the mea and mod ( xij : 123 ) of the bmf rec .
in the bot row we the ave ima of the dat whi hav eac fea inu on .
it is cle tha som row fea hav dis dig for and oth are ove .
in row g , the bas ima by adj the fea tha are non - zer in eac row ofu , ima are com by add bas ima tog .
fin , in row h we sho .
the pix fea mas out dif reg in
by exa the fea cap by the mod , we can und the per jus des .
alo wit one sam of tho ima sho on the rig of fig 123 , mul bar are use in eac ima .
thi is ree in the , but the for are
the rst ve row of fig 123 we aga ill the abi of bmf to imp mis dat val .
the top row sho all 123 sam fro the dat whi had the bot hal lab mis .
mis val are lle - in at eac ite of the mar cha .
in the thi and fou row we
in sec 123 we bri sta tha bmf can be app to dat mod oth tha the lin - gau mod .
we dem thi wit a log bmf app to bin ima of han dig .
use to gen the dat .
the can be tho of as a
hav sho the nea nei , in pix spa , to the tra exa bas onl on the top hal of the ori dig .
in the las thr row of fig 123 we sho the fea cap by the mod .
in row f , we sho
pix spa , whi are wei tog to cre the bas ima .
not tha the are fea in row f and g , and fea in row h .
rep a bia fea .
123 gen exp dat
( a ) dig ran sam fro the com dat .
the fig 123 : dig rec .
bot hal of the dig wer rem and lab mis dur lea .
( b ) the dat sho to the alg .
the top hal is the ori dat val .
( c ) the mea of the rec for the bot hal .
( d ) the mod rec of the bot hal .
( e ) the nea nei of the ori dat are sho in the bot hal , and wer fou bas sol on the inf
fro the top hal of the ima .
( f ) the ave of all dig for eac fea .
( g ) the fea res in the for of dig .
by add the fea tog , whi the fea do , rec of the dig is pos .
( h ) v res int the for of dig .
the rst ima bay spe cas of our mod in whi the mat is dia and the num of bi - of the dat and its exp rec are ord suc tha con reg inx wer ob - ing bmf to mod gen exp dat wou be to x cer col ofu orv wit kno
nar fea is xed .
our goa in thi exp is mer to ill qua the abi of bmf to nd mul clu in gen exp dat , som of whi are ove , oth non - ove .
the dat in thi exp con of row cor to gen and col cor to pat the pat suf fro one of two typ of acu leu ( 123 ) .
in fig 123 we sho the fac pro by the nal sta in the mar cha .
the row and col
gen exp dat is abl to exh mul and ove clu sim ndi mod for suc com dat is an int and act res are ( ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
the pla mod ( 123 ) , ori int for ana of gen exp dat , can be tho of as a non -
ser .
som of the man fea pai are hig .
the bmf clu con of bro , ove clu , and sma , non - ove clu .
one of the int pos of us -
gai fro exp or lit , and to all the mod to add new fea tha hel exp the dat in mor det .
we hav int a new mod , bin mat fac , for uns dec of dya dat mat .
bmf mak use of non - par bay met to sim dis - cov bin dis rep of bot row and col of dya dat .
the mod ex - pla eac row and col ent usi a com cod com of mul bin lat fea alo wit a set of par des how the fea int to cre the obs res at eac pos in the mat .
bmf is bas on a hie bay mod and can be nat ext to mak use of a pri dis whi per an inn num of fea , at ver lit ext com cos .
we hav giv mcm alg for pos inf of bot the bin fac and the int par con on som obs dat , and
fig 123 : gen exp res .
( a ) the top - lef isx sor acc to con fea in the nal and in the mar cha .
the bot - lef isv and the top - rig isu .
the bot - rig isw .
( b ) the sam as ( a ) , but the exp val ofx , ^x= reg tha hav bot ik and on .
for cla , we hav onl sho the ( at mos ) two lar
we hav hig
con reg for eac fea pai .
dem the mod abi to cap ove str and mod com joi dis - tio on a var of dat .
bmf is fun dif fro bi - clu alg bec of its dis lat rep and fro fac mod wit con lat var whi int lin to pro the obs .
thi all a muc ric lat str , whi we bel mak bmf use for man app bey the one we out in thi pap .
