abs .
gau pro are a nat way of den pri dis ove fun - tio of one or mor inp var .
in a sim non reg pro , whe suc a fun giv the mea of a gau dis for an obs res , a gau pro mod can eas be imp usi mat com tha are fea for dat of up to abo a tho cas .
hyp tha den the cov fun of the gau pro can be sam usi mar cha met .
reg mod whe the noi has a t dis and log or pro mod for cla app can be imp by sam as wel for lat val un - der the obs .
sof is now ava tha imp the met usi cov fun wit hie par .
mod den in thi way can dis hig - lev pro of the dat , suc as whi inp are rel to pre
a non bay reg mod mus be bas on a pri dis ove the inn - dim spa of pos reg fun .
it has bee kno for man yea tha suc pri ove fun can be den usi gau pro ( oha 123 ) , and ess the sam mod has lon bee use in spa sta und the nam of kri .
gau pro see to hav bee lar ign as gen - pur re - gre mod , how , apa fro the spe cas of smo spl ( wah 123 ) , and som app to mod noi - fre dat fro com exp ( eg , sac , wel , mit , and wyn 123 ) .
rec , i hav sho tha man bay reg mod bas on neu net con to gau pro in the lim of an inn net ( nea 123 ) .
thi has mot exa of gau pro mod for the hig - dim app to whi neu net are typ app ( wil and ras 123 ) .
the emp wor of ras ( 123 ) has dem tha gau - sia pro mod hav bet pre per tha sev oth non
reg met ove a ran of tas wit var cha .
the con sim - pli , exi , and goo per of gau pro mod sho mak the ver att for a wid ran of pro .
one rea for the pre neg of gau pro reg may be tha in a str imp it inv mat ope who tim req gro as the cub of the num of cas , and who spa req gro as the squ of the num of cas .
twe yea ago , thi may hav lim use of suc mod to dat wit les tha abo a hun cas , but wit mod com , it is fea to app gau pro mod to dat wit a tho or mor cas .
it may als be pos to red the tim req usi mor sop alg ( gib and mac
the cha of a gau pro mod can eas be con by wri the cov fun in ter of hyp .
one app to ada the hyp - par to the obs dat is to est the by max lik ( or max pen lik ) , as has lon bee don in the con of spa sta ( eg , mar and mar 123 ) .
in a ful bay app , the hyp are giv pri dis .
pre are the mad by ave ove the pos dis for the hyp , whi can be don usi mar cha mon car met .
the two app oft giv sim res ( wil and ras 123 , ras 123 ) , but the ful bay app may be mor rob whe the mod are ela .
app gau pro mod to cla pro pre new com pro , sin the joi dis of all qua is no lon gau .
app met of bay inf for suc mod hav bee pro by bar and wil ( 123 ) and by gib and mac ( 123 ) .
a gen app to exa han cla - cat and oth gen mod ( eg , for a poi res ) is to use a mar cha mon car sch in whi uno lat val ass wit eac cas are exp rep .
thi pap app thi app to cla usi log or pro mod , and to reg mod in whi the noi fol a t dis .
i hav wri sof in c for uni sys tha imp gau pro met for reg and cla , wit the sam fra as is use by my bay neu net sof .
thi sof is is fre ava for res and edu use . 123 the cov fun sup may con of sev par , and may be spe in ter of hyp , as des in det in sec 123
the cov fun pro fun sim to tha of the neu net mod .
the sof imp ful bay inf for the hie mod usi mat com and mar cha sam met , as des in sec 123 and 123
in sec 123 and 123 , i dem the use of the sof on a thr - way cla pro , usi a mod tha can ide whi of the inp are rel to pre the cla , and on a reg pro wit i con by dis som are for fut res .
fir , how , i wil
123 the lin fro my hom pag , at htt : / / www . cs . uto . ca / rad / .
the ver des
her is tha of 123 - 123 - 123
int in mor det the ide of bay mod usi gau pro .
123 reg and cla usi gau pro
, x ( i )
ass we hav obs dat for n cas , ( x ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) , ( x ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) , .
, ( x ( n ) , t ( n ) ) , in whi x ( i ) = x ( i ) is the vec of p inp ( pre ) for cas i and t ( i ) is the ass tar ( res ) .
our pri pur is to pre the tar , t ( n+1 ) , for a new cas whe we hav obs onl the inp , x ( n+1 ) .
( we mig som be int in int as wel , but the is no poi in int a mod tha has fai to cap the reg tha wou sup goo pre per . ) for a reg pro , the tar wil be rea - val for a cla pro , the tar wil be fro som nit set of cla lab , whi we wil tak to be ( 123 , .
, k 123 ) .
it wil som be con to rep the dis of the tar , t ( i ) , in ter of uno lat val , y ( i ) , ass wit eac cas .
bay reg and cla mod are usu for in ter of a pri dis for a set of unk mod par , fro whi a pos dis for the par is der , and gen exh exp .
if our foc is on pre for a fut cas , how , the nal res is a pre dis for a new tar val , t ( n+1 ) , tha is obt by int ove the unk par .
thi pre dis can the be exp dir in ter of the inp for the new cas , x ( n+1 ) , and the inp and tar for the n obs cas , wit any men of the mod par .
wha is mor , rat tha exp our pri kno in ter of a pri for the par , we can ins int ove the par to obt a pri dis for the tar in any set of cas .
a pre dis for an unk tar can the be obt by con on the kno tar .
the ope are mos eas car out if all the dis are gau .
for , gau pro are exi eno to rep a wid var of int reg mod , man of whi wou hav an inn num of par if for in mor con
bef dis suc non mod , how , it may hel to see how the sch
wor for a sim lin reg mod , whi can be wri as
t ( i ) = +
u u + ( i )
whe ( i ) is the gau noi for cas i , ass to be ind fro cas to cas , and to hav mea zer and var 123 but tha and the u are unk .
for the mom , we wil ass tha 123
let us giv and the u ind gau pri wit mea of zer and var u .
for any set of cas wit xed inp , x ( 123 ) , x ( 123 ) , .
. , thi pri dis for par imp a pri dis for the ass tar val , t ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) , .
. , whi
wil be mul gau , wit mea zer , and wit cov giv by
cov ( i ) , t ( j ) i = e " +
u u + ( i ) ! +
u + ij1
u u + j ! #
whe ij is one if i = j and zer oth .
thi mea and cov fun are suc to den a gau pro giv a dis ove pos rel bet the inp and the tar .
( str spe , one mig wis to con the ter gau pro to dis ove fun fro the inp to the tar .
the rel abo is not fun , sin ( due to noi ) t ( i ) may die fro t ( j ) eve if x ( i ) is ide to x ( j ) .
the loo usa is con her , how . )
sup now tha we kno the inp , x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( n ) , for n obs cas , as wel as x ( n+1 ) , the inp in a cas for whi we wis to pre the tar .
we can use equ ( 123 ) to com the n+1 by n+1 cov mat of the ass tar , t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) , t ( n+1 ) .
tog wit the ass tha the mea are zer , the cov den a gau joi dis for the tar in the obs and uno cas .
we can con on the kno tar to obt the pre dis for t ( n+1 ) giv t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) .
wel - kno res ( eg , von mis 123 , sec 123 ) sho tha thi pre dis is gau , wit mea and var giv by
t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = kt c12 t t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = v kt c12 k
whe c is the n by n cov mat for the tar in the obs cas ( fro equ - tio ( 123 ) ) , t = ( t ( 123 ) t ( n ) ) t is the vec of kno tar val in the cas , k is the vec of cov bet t ( n+1 ) and the n kno tar , and v is the pri var of t ( n+1 ) ( ie , cov ( t ( n+1 ) , t ( n+1 ) ) fro equ ( 123 ) ) .
in pra , our pri kno wil usu not be suc to x app val for the hyp tha den the cov ( , , and the u for the sim mod of equ ( 123 ) ) .
we wil the giv pri dis to the hyp , and bas pre on a sam of val fro the pos dis .
sam fro the pos dis req com of the log lik bas on the n obs cas , whi is
log det c
tt c12 t
the der of l can als be com , and use whe sam , as des in sec - tio 123 and 123
thi pro is unn exp for the sim reg mod jus dis , whi is bet han by mor sta com pro .
how , the gau
pro pro can han mor int mod by sim usi a die cov fun tha tha of equ ( 123 ) .
for exa , a reg mod bas on arb smo fun can be obt usi the cov fun
cov ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 123 exp
u ) 123 ! + ij1
her , and the u are hyp , whi wou usu be giv som pri dis - tio rat tha bei xed .
oth pos for the cov fun are dis in
reg mod wit non - gau noi and mod for cla pro , whe the tar are fro the set ( 123 , .
, k 123 ) , can be den in ter of a gau pro mod for lat val ass wit eac cas .
the lat val are use to den a dis for the tar in a cas .
for exa , a log mod for bin tar can be den in ter of lat val
y ( i ) by let the dis for the tar in cas i be giv by
the lat val are giv som gau pro pri , suc as
p ( t ( i ) = 123 ) = h12 + exp ( cid : 123 ) y ( i ) ( cid : 123 ) i12
cov ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 123 exp
thi cov fun giv a mod in whi the pro of the tar bei 123 var smo as a fun of the inp .
whe the are thr or mor cla , an ana mod can be den usi k lat
k 123 , whi den cla pro as fol :
val for eac cas , y ( i )
, y ( i )
p ( t ( i ) = k ) = exp ( cid : 123 ) y ( i )
the k lat val can be giv ind gau pro pri .
( thi rep is red , but rem the red by for one of the lat val to alw be zer wou int an arb asy int the pri . )
for com rea , the cov fun of equ ( 123 ) mus usu be mod -
ied by the add of at lea a sma amo of jit , as fol :
cov ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 123 exp
u ) 123 ! + ijj 123
her , j giv the amo of jit , whi is sim to the noi in a reg mod .
inc a sma amo of jit ( eg , j = 123 ) mak the mat com bet
con , and imp the eci of sam , whi hav onl a sma eec on
the eec of a pro mod can be pro by usi a lar amo of jit .
a pro mod for bin tar cou be den dir in ter of lat val , z ( i ) , hav a cov fun wit jit , as fol :
p ( t ( i ) = 123 ) = ( cid : 123 ) z ( i ) ( cid : 123 )
whe is the sta gau cum dis fun .
thi for of the pro mod can be mim usi lat val , y ( i ) , who cov fun inc a jit ter ( as in equ ( 123 ) ) .
whe j = 123 , the y ( i ) can be reg as sum of jit - fre lat var , z ( i ) , and ind jit of var one .
a pro mod can the be
p ( t ( i ) = 123 | y ( i ) ) = ( cid : 123 ) y ( i ) ( cid : 123 )
whe ( y ) = ( 123 if y < 123 123 if y >= 123 ) .
int ove the jit in y ( i ) giv the eec of equ ( 123 ) .
fin , sca up the mag of bot the jit and non - jit par of the cov ( eg , so tha j = 123 ) wil lea the eec of equ ( 123 ) unc , at whi poi the thr fun can be rep by the log fun of equ ( 123 ) , sin the mag of y ( i ) wil usu be lar eno tha the val of the log fun wil be clo to zer or one . 123
if the cov fun use all the lat val to be any fun of the inp ( plu jit ) , the sam cla pro wil be rep usi eit a log or a pro mod .
the two sor of mod wou die onl in the exa pri ove cla pro - bil fun tha the emb .
it is not yet cle whi of the two mod wil be bet in typ sit .
it is als pos to mak the amo of jit be a hyp , all the dat to det whi of the two mod is mor app , or to sel an int mod .
lat val can als be use to den reg mod wit non - gau noi , wit the lat val bei the noi - fre val of the reg fun .
( in pra , it is usu nec to inc a sma amo of jit in the cov fun for the lat val , whi has the eec of int som min amo of gau noi . ) a t dis for the noi is par con , sin it can be exp in ter of a gau noi mod in whi the noi var for the cas are ind dra fro an inv gam dis .
in the imp of thi mod , the cas - by - cas noi var are exp rep , and sam .
the lat val are nee to sam for the noi var , but can be dis onc use for thi pur .
123 wou be pos for the sof to all the opt of usi the or fun ins of the log , the all a pro mod to be imp exa , but thi is not don at the mom .
it mig als be pos to all the log to be rep by ano fun tha pro the exa log mod whe som nit amo of jit is use , but thi has not bee inv in det eit .
123 cov fun and the hyp
a wid var of cov fun can be use in the gau pro fra , sub - jec to the req tha a val cov fun mus res in a pos sem cov mat for the tar in a set of any num of cas , in whi the inp tak on any pos val .
in a bay mod , the cov fun wil usu dep on var hyp , whi are the giv pri dis .
suc hyp - par can con the amo of noi in a reg mod , the sca of var in the reg fun , the deg to whi var inp var are rel , and the mag of die add com of a mod .
the pos dis of the hyp wil be con on val tha are app for the dat tha was
cha the set of val cov fun is not tri , as see by the ext - siv dis in the boo by yag ( 123 ) .
one way to con a var of cov - anc fun is by add and mul tog oth cov fun , sin the ele - by - ele sum or pro of any two sym , pos sem mat is als sym and pos sem ( hor and joh 123 , 123 . 123 and 123 . 123 ) .
sum of cov fun are use in den mod wit an add str , sin the cov fun for a sum of ind gau pro is sim the sum of the sep cov fun .
pro of cov fun are use in den a cov fun for cas wit mul inp in ter of cov fun for sin inp .
the cur sof sup cov fun tha are the sum of one or mor ter
of the fol typ :
123 ) a con par , whi is the sam for any pai of cas , reg of the inp in tho cas .
thi add a con com to the reg fun ( or to the lat val for a cla mod ) , wit the pri for the val of thi con com hav the var giv by thi con ter in the cov fun .
123 ) a lin par , whi for the cov bet cas i and j has the for
thi pro a lin fun of the inp , as see in sec 123 , or add a lin com to the fun , if the are oth ter in the cov as wel .
123 ) a jit par , whi is zer for die cas , and a con for the cov of a cas wit its .
jit is use to imp the con of the mat com , or to pro the eec of a pro cla mod .
the noi in a reg mod is sim , but is tre sep in thi imp ( jit aec the lat val , and thr the the tar noi aec onl the tar ) .
123 ) any num of exp par , eac of whi , for the cov bet cas i
and j , has the for
if the are sev exp par , the may use die val of r , , and the u .
for the cov fun to be pos den , r mus be in the ran 123 to 123
the def val of r = 123 pro a fun ( or add com of a fun ) tha is inn die , but not con to be of any par for .
the par of the ter in the cov fun may be xed , or the may be tre as hyp , wit giv pri dis , exc tha the pow , r , for an exp par mus cur be xed .
som of the pos dis ove fun tha can be obt usi cov fun of thi for are ill in fig 123
( the are fun of a sin inp , so the ind u is dro ) .
the top lef and top rig eac sho fun dra ran fro a gau pro wit a cov fun con of a sin exp par .
the dis ove whi the fun var by an amo com to its ful ran , giv by 123 / , is sma for the top - rig tha the top - lef .
the bot lef sho fun gen usi a cov fun tha is the sum of con , lin , and exp par .
the mag of the exp par , giv by , is rat sma , so the fun dep onl sli fro str lin .
the bot rig sho fun dra fro a pri who cov fun is the sum of two exp par , tha pro var at die sca , and wit die mag .
the sof can pro suc plo of ran dra fun in one and two dim , usi the cho dec of the cov mat for the tar ove a gri of inp poi , as des in sec 123
for pro wit mor tha one inp var , the u and u par con the deg to whi eac inp is rel to pre the tar .
if u is clo to zer , inp u wil hav lit eec on the deg of cov bet cas ( or at lea , lit eec on the por of the cov due to the exp par in whi the u hyp occ ) .
two cas cou the hav hig cov eve if the hav gre die val for inp u ie , inp u is eec ign .
in typ app , the con par and jit par ( if any ) of the cov wou be giv xed val , but the ava pri inf wou not be suc to x the oth hyp , whi spe the mag of the lin and exp par , and the sca of var and rel of the var inp .
the sta dev of the noi for a reg mod wou als typ be unk .
the hyp sho the usu be giv fai vag pri dis .
the dis sho be pro , how , as usi an imp pri wil oft pro an imp pos .
the pri for hyp sup by the sof all tak the sam for .
if is a hyp ( all of whi tak on onl pos val ) , the val of = 123 can be giv a gam pri wit den
cov ( i ) , t ( j ) i = exp ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
cov ( i ) , t ( j ) i = exp ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
cov ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 123 + x ( i ) x ( j )
+ 123 exp ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
cov ( i ) , t ( j ) i = exp ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) + 123 exp ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
fig 123 : fun dra fro gau pro wit var cov fun .
eac of the gra sho two fun tha wer ind dra fro the gau pro wit mea zer and wit the cov fun giv bel the gra .
her , is a pos sha par , and is the mea of .
the sof acc pri spe in ter of and 123 ( who uni cor to tho of the ori hyp , ) .
lar val of pro pri for con nea 123 , whe sma val of pro vag pri . 123
sin hyp , suc as in an exp par , or the noi sta dev for a sim reg mod , may eit be giv a pri as des abo , or be giv a xed val ( equ to let = ) .
hyp tha com in gro , suc as the u in an exp par , or the u in a lin par , can be giv hie pri , exp in ter of a hig - lev hyp ass wit the gro , whi has no dir eec on the cov fun , but whi det the mea for the low - lev hyp .
for exa , the u hyp for an exp par mig be acc by a hig - lev hyp , .
at the top lev , = 123 giv a gam pri of the for
for a giv val of , the u hyp ass wit par inp are ind - pen , wit u = 123
u hav a gam pri wit mea , as fol :
p ( u | ) =
not tha the sha par for the two lev , 123 and 123 , can be die ( 123 is the sam for all inp , u , how ) .
the top lev of the hie can be omi ( eec , 123 = ) , in whi cas the u are ind .
the low lev of the hie can als be omi ( eec , 123 = ) , in whi cas the u are all equ to .
fin bot lev can be omi ( 123 = 123 = ) , in whi cas the u hav xed val .
the hie pri can als lin tog the u par in the lin par of the cov , as wel as the noi sta dev for a reg mod wit mor tha one tar .
how , at pre the is no way of lin hyp of die typ , nor of lin hyp per to die par of the cov fun ( eg , the u for die exp par ) .
whe the is mor tha one tar or lat val for eac cas , the sam hyp are cur use for the ind gau pro tha mod the rel of eac val to the inp .
the onl exc to thi is tha die noi sta dev are pos for reg mod wit mor tha one tar .
in con to the ela pro for die cov fun , the sof cur ass tha the mea fun for the gau pro is alw zer .
thi is app for pro whe pri kno is vag .
not tha usi a zer mea
123 is an arb asp to thi for of pri spe , sin con not onl how diu the pri is , but als its sha .
thi cou be xed by let the gam pri be for = r , wit r bei any spe pow .
the pre sch is ana to the pri use for neu net mod , whe r = 123 res in a con pri wit som com adv .
gau pro doe not mea tha we exp the act reg fun to tak on pos and neg val ove equ par of its ran .
if the cov fun has a lar con ter , we wou not be sur if the act fun wer alw pos , or alw neg ( at lea ove the ran of int ) .
usi a mea fun of zer sim ree our lac of pri kno as to wha the sig wil tur out to be .
in pra , it wil usu be des to tra the tar so tha the mea is app zer , in ord to eli any nee for a lar con ter in the cov .
inc a lar con ter is und bec it inc the rou - o err in the mat
123 mat com
inf reg a gau pro mod giv par val for its hyp - ete can be per usi com inv the cov mat for the tar or lat val ass wit the obs cas .
if app hyp val are kno a pri , the mat com are all tha are nee to mak pre for the tar in new cas .
in the mor com sit whe the hyp are unk , suc mat com are use to sup the mar cha sam met des in sec 123 , and the to mak pre usi the res sam of hyp val ( and lat val , if req ) .
the cen obj in the com is the n by n cov mat of the lat val und the obs cas , or of the tar val the , for a reg mod .
thi cov mat , whi we wil den by c , dep on the obs inp for the cas , and on the par val of the hyp , bot of whi are con xed her .
the dic of com inv c is det by its con num the rat of its lar eig to its sma eig .
con num is lar , rou - o err in the mat com may cau the to fai or to be hig ina .
thi pot pro can be con by usi cov fun tha inc jit ter ( see sec 123 ) , sin the jit con add to eve eig of the mat , red the con num .
whe c is the cov mat for the tar in a reg mod , the noi var has an equ eec .
for mos pro , it app tha the add of a sma amo of jit to the cov wil not ser aec the sta pro of the mod , and may eve be des .
acc , the sof doe not att to han cov mat tha are ver
the pre imp is bas on ndi the cho dec of c tha is , the low - tri mat , l , for whi c = llt .
the cho dec can be fou by a sim alg ( see , for exa , thi 123 , sec 123 ) , whi run in tim pro to n12
onc the cho dec has bee fou , the det of c can eas be com as the squ of the pro of the dia ele of l .
( in pra , the log of the det is fou fro the sum of the log of the dia
ele . ) ano use of the cho dec is in gen lat or tar val fro the pri .
sta met can be use to ran gen a vec , n , com of n ind gau var wit mea zer and var one .
one can the com the vec ln , whi wil hav mea zer and cov mat llt = c .
thi pro was use to pro the plo in fig 123 , usi the cov mat for the tar ove a gri of inp val , wit the add of an unn amo of jit .
the pri use of the cho dec is in com the inv of c , whi ari bot in the pre dis for a new cas ( equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ) and in the log lik ( equ ( 123 ) ) .
the com cou be per wit exp ndi the inv of c , sin c12 b can be fou usi the cho dec by rst sol lv = b for v usi for sub , and the sol lt u = v for u usi bac sub .
how , it is mor con to exp com the inv , sin it wil oft be nee any in ord to com der of the log lik .
com of c12 is don by app the pro jus des to com c12 b for the n vec b tha are all zer exc for one ele wit the val one .
thi tak tim pro to n12
onc c12 has bee com , we can pre to mak pre fro a reg mod by com b = c12 t , whe t is the vec of tar in the tra cas .
the mea of the pre dis for the tar in a tes cas can the be fou in tim pro to n .
we rst com the vec , k , of cov bet the tar in the tes cas and in the n tra cas .
we the com the pre mea of equ ( 123 ) as kt b .
thi is the met use in the pre imp .
an alt is to sol lu = k for u and to sol lv = t for v , and the com the pre mea as ut v .
thi is les eci , tak tim pro to n12 for eac tes cas , but gib and mac ( 123 ) rep tha it is mor acc whe c is poo con .
if we req the pre var as wel as the mea , we mus com kt c12 k , for use in equ ( 123 ) , whi wil tak tim pro to n12
pre for cla mod inv sim ope , but foc on the lat val ass wit a tes cas .
a vec of lat val , y , ass wit the tra cas mus be ava .
the vec of cov , k , bet the lat val and the lat val in a tes cas can be com , and a pre mea and var for the lat val in the tes cas can the be fou as abo .
a sam of val fro thi gau pre dis can eas be obt , fro whi mon car est for the cla pro in the tes cas can be com by sim ave the pro tha are obt by sub the lat val in thi sam int equ ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) .
one may als wis to sam fro the joi pos dis of the tar or la - ten val in a set of cas , eit as par of som oth com , or in ord to plo reg fun dra fro the pos dis .
con on val for the hyp , for the lat var ass wit tra cas ( for a cla mod ) , and for the cas - by - cas noi var ( for a reg mod wit t - dis noi ) , the dis wil be gau , wit mea and cov giv by gen -
iza of equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
in a reg mod , for exa , if y is the vec of lat val in a set of m tes cas , and t is the vec of tar val in n tra cas ,
e ( y | t ) = kt c12 t
cov ( y | t ) = w kt c12 k
whe c is the n by n cov mat for the tar in tra cas , w is the m by m cov mat for lat val in the tes cas , and k is the n by m mat of cov bet tar in tra cas and lat val in tes cas .
onc the mea and cov hav bee com , a val for y can be gen usi the cho dec of its cov mat , as des abo in reg to sam fro the pri .
the mar cha met use to sam fro the pos dis of the hyp - ram in a reg mod req com of the log lik , l , of equ ( 123 ) .
as see abo , thi is eas don usi the cho dec of c .
for som of the mar cha sam met , the der of l wit res to the var hy - per are als req .
the der of the log lik wit res to a hyp can be wri as fol ( mar and mar 123 ) :
tt c12 c
the tra of the pro in the rst ter can be com in tim pro to n12 , ass tha c12 has alr bee com .
the sec ter can als be com in tim pro to n12 , by rst com b = c12 t ( whi is pro nee any , to com l its ) , mul thi on the lef by the mat of der , and nal mul the res by bt .
apa fro the com of b , thi pro mus be rep for eac hyp , and for eac reg tar , if the is mor tha one .
the mar cha met use for cla mod req a sim com ,
but wit the vec of tar , t , rep by the vec of cur lat val , y .
for lar dat set , the tim req for the com is dom by tha req to for the cho dec of c , and to the com c12 , for whi the num of ope req gro in pro to n12
ind , on mac wit mem cac , the tim req for the com may gro at a rat eve fas tha n12 , sin lar mat wil not t in the fas cac .
the sof att to red suc cac eec by whe pos sca mat alo row rat tha dow col , but for lar mat the slo on our sgi mac can sti be sub .
for sma dat set ( eg , 123 cas ) , the tim req to com the der of the log lik wit res to the hyp can dom , eve tho thi tim gro onl in pro to n12
thi may occ , for exa , whe the are man hyp con the rel of man inp var , so tha com the
mat of der of the cov tak a lot of tim .
the com can be spe up if the ind val for the exp par of the cov hav bee sav ( as the app in the exp for the der ) .
the sof doe thi whe n is sma eno tha the mem req to do so is not too lar whe n is lar , the oth ope dom any .
123 mar cha sam
the cov fun for mos gau pro mod wil con unk hyp - par , whi mus be int ove in a ful bay tre .
the num of hyp wil var fro aro thr or fou for a ver sim reg mod up to sev doz or mor for a mod wit man inp , who rel are ind con usi hyp suc as the u of equ ( 123 ) .
mar cha mon car met ( see ( nea 123 ) for a rev ) see to be the onl fea app to per - for the int , at lea for the mor com mod .
for cla mod , lat val for eac tra cas mus als be int ove , and for reg mod in whi the noi has a t dis , we mus int ove the cas - by - cas noi var - anc .
the lat val and var can be inc in the sta of the mar cha and sam alo wit the hyp .
sam fro the pos dis of the hyp is fac by rep - sen the in log for , as thi mak the sam met ind of the sca of the dat .
the wid - use met of gib sam can eas be app to thi pro , sin it see dic to sam fro the con dis for one hyp giv val for the oth ( and the lat val , if any ) .
the met alg cou be use wit som sim pro dis , suc as a gau wit dia cov mat .
the sof sup thi opt , alo wit a var of oth mar cha sam met .
how , sim met suc as thi exp the reg of hig pro by an ine ran wal .
it is pro bet for mos mod to use a met tha can sup the ran wal ( nea 123 , 123 ) .
the mos app way to sup ran wal for thi pro see to be to use the hyb mon car met of dua , ken , pen , and row ( 123 ) , or the var of thi met due to hor ( 123 ) .
i hav emp the hyb mon car met to do bay inf for neu net mod ( nea 123 ) , and ras ( 123 ) has use it for gau pro reg .
sev var of the hyb mon car met are sup by the mar cha mod tha i use for bot the neu net and the gau pro sof .
i wil giv onl a bri , inf des of the met her .
mor det can be fou els ( nea 123 , 123 ras 123 ) .
the hyb mon car met sup ran wal by int mom var tha are ass wit the pos var tha are the foc of int .
for the gau pro app , the pos var are the hyp den the cov fun .
the sta of the sim evo in the sam way as the pos
and mom of a phy par tra thr a reg of var pot ene .
the mom cau the par to con in a con dir unt suc tim as a reg of hig ene ( low pro ) is enc .
thi mot mus be ran a bit in ord to ens tha the cor dis is sam fro , but not so muc tha und ran wal beh res .
in pra , the die equ tha des how the pos and mom cha thr tim are dis , and the bia due to dis err is eli by acc or rej the new sta in the met sty .
the lea dis is usu use .
in ord to per a lea upd , the der of the log of the pos pro wit res to the hyp mus be com .
to dec whe to acc an upd ( or seq of upd ) , the log of the pos pro mus be fou ( exc for its nor con ) .
the log pos pro is com fro the log of the pri pro for the hyp , whi hav the eas com gam for , and the log lik , fro equ ( 123 ) .
the der are fou by add the der of the log pri , whi is eas com , to the der of the log lik , whi is com usi equ ( 123 ) .
in the ori hyb mon car met of dua , et al .
( 123 ) , sev lea upd are don , aft whi a dec whe to acc the res is mad .
the mom is als ran at thi tim .
a var usi win of sta ( nea 123 ) can be use to inc the acc pro .
in the var due to hor ( 123 ) , an acc dec is mad aft eac lea upd , aft whi the mom is onl par ran .
i ref to thi as hyb mon car wit per of the mom .
for hyb mon car to wor wel , app ste for the lea upd mus be sel if too lar a ste is use , the acc rat wil be ver low , but if the ste is too sma , pro wil be nee slo .
die ste can be use for die hyp thi is equ to res the hyp ( in the log for ) usi die sca fac .
the sof inc a heu pro tha aut sel a ste for eac hyp .
the sel are bas on est of the sec der of the log pos den wit res to the hyp , whi ind how lar a cha can be mad to a hyp wit get int a reg of low pro .
the aut sel ste can be ( and usu are ) man adj by mul the all by som fac , whi is cho on the bas of pre run .
acc , the rea rol of the heu is to set the rel ste for die hyp .
the heu use at pre are rat sim .
the ste for hig - lev hyp - ram are sca dow by the squ roo of the num of low - lev hyp tha the con .
thi is in acc wit how one wou exp the wid of the pos dis to sca .
sim , the ste for the noi var in a reg mod is sca dow by the squ roo of the num of tra cas .
how , the ste for the oth hyp ( eg , the and u hyp in an exp par of the cov ) are not sca on the bas of the num of tra cas .
whe thi is the
rig thi to do dep on whe the pos dis for the hyp bec mor tig con as the num of tra cas inc .
i con tha the pos dis are typ mor con tha the pri , but tha the do not bec mor and mor con as the num of tra cas inc , exc per for the u par in an exp par wit r < 123 , for whi the fun pro are fra .
mar and mar ( 123 ) con thi pro in a spa sta con , und the ass tha the ran of the inp var in - cre wit the num of tra cas , whi i pre is not the typ sit for reg and cla pro .
if add tra cas ins pro den sam wit a xed reg , it see tha the can pro onl a lim amo of inf abo the hyp , unl the fun mod has a fra nat , in whi inf is rep at all sca .
for a cla mod , the hyb mon car upd of the hyp use the lik bas on the cur lat val ass wit tra cas , not on the tar dir .
the hyp upd mus be int wit upd of the lat val the , for whi gib sam is pre use .
new lat val are cho for eac cas in a seq sca . 123 the val are dra fro the con dis for suc a lat val giv the obs tar for tha tra cas , and giv the cur val of the hyp and all the oth lat val .
the den for thi con dis is pro to the pro of the lik giv the tar , fro equ ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) , and the gau con den giv the oth lat val .
the con den for y ( i ) giv the oth lat val , all of whi are col in y , is pro to exp ( 123 123 yt c12 ) , and can be fou in tim pro to n if c12 has alr bee com .
the nal con den is log - con , and hen can eci be sam fro usi the ada rej met of gil and wil ( 123 ) .
onc c12 has bee com , tak tim pro to n12 , a com gib sam sca tak tim pro onl to n12
it the mak sen to per qui a few gib sam sca bet eac upd of the hyp , as thi add lit to the tim req , and pro mak the mar cha mix fas .
the sof als sup reg mod wit t - dis noi , exp as gau - sia noi wit cas - by - cas var dra fro an inv gam dis .
the mar cha mus the sam som for the cas - by - cas noi var , whi are nee to com the cov of the tar .
in one app , cas - by - cas lat val are mai , and upd usi gib sam , in a man ana to tha use for cla mod .
gib sam can the eas be don for the cas - by - cas noi var as wel , bas onl on the hyp con the noi lev , the lat val , and the tar .
the sof als sup a sec app , how , in whi lat val are not kep aro per .
ins , lat val are tem
123 the are sev lat val for eac cas , it mak no die whe the inn loo of the
sca is ove cas or ove the sev val for one cas .
fig 123 : the 123 tra cas use for the thr - way cla pro .
eac cas is plo ac - cor to its val for x12 and x12 , wit the plo sym ind the cla , as fol :
cla 123 = lle squ cla 123 = plu sig cla 123 = ope tri
gen jus bef the noi var are upd , usi equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , and the dis aft bei use to gen new val for the noi var .
123 exa : a thr - way cla pro
123 , x ( i )
123 , x ( i )
123 , and x ( i )
to dem the use of the sof for cla , i app it to a syn thr - way cla pro .
pai of dat ite , ( x ( i ) , t ( i ) ) wer gen by rst ran dra qua x ( i ) ind fro the uni dis ove the int ( 123 , 123 ) .
the cla of the ite , t ( i ) , enc as 123 , 123 , or 123 , was the sel as fol : if the two - dim euc dis of ( x ( i ) 123 ) fro the poi ( 123 , 123 ) was les tha 123 , the cla was set to 123 oth , if 123 x ( i ) 123 was les tha 123 , the cla was set to 123 and if nei of the con hel , the cla was set to 123
not tha 123 , x ( i ) 123 and x ( i ) 123 , ava for pre of the tar wer the val of x ( i ) 123 plu ind gau noi of sta dev 123 .
i gen 123 cas in thi way , of whi 123 wer use for tra the mod , and 123 for tes the res pre per .
the 123 tra cas are sho in fig 123
123 hav no eec on the cla .
the inp , x ( i )
123 , x ( i ) 123 + 123 x ( i )
123 , x ( i ) 123 , and x ( i )
123 , and x ( i )
123 , x ( i )
123 , x ( i )
thi dat was mod usi a gau pro for the lat val , y ( i ) , who co - var fun con of thr ter a con par ( xed at 123 ) , an exp par in whi the mag , , and the sca for the fou inp , u , wer var hyp - par , and a jit par , xed at j = 123
the fai lar amo of jit pro an eec clo to a pro mod , as dis in sec 123
sin eac of the u can var sep ( und the con of a com hig - lev hyp ) , the mod is ca -
pab of dis tha som of the inp are in fac irr to the tas of pre the tar .
we hop tha the pos dis of u for the irr inp wil be con nea zer , so tha the wil not deg pre per .
the per for of hyb mon car was use in the sam , as thi all the lat val to be res bet eac lea upd of the hyp .
a fai low per was use for the rst few lea upd , in ord to all ene to be dis rap at rst ( thr rep of the mom , and con eli of kin ene ) .
a lar per was use the , in ord to sup ran wal beh .
bef eve upd of the hyp , the lat val ass wit tra cas wer upd usi 123 gib sam sca .
a seq of ve of the com gib sam and lea upd wer don in eac sam ite , aft whi the hyp and lat val wer sav for pos lat use .
sam was con for 123 suc ite ( 123 lea upd ) , whi too abo 123 min on our sgi mac .
com det reg the mod and the sam pro use may be fou in
the sof doc , whe thi pro is als use as an exa .
the con of the mar cha sim can be ass by plo how the val of the hyp cha ove the cou of the sim .
fig 123 sho the pro of the u hyp in the exp par of the cov .
as hop , we see tha by abo ite 123 , an app equ has bee rea in whi the hyp 123 and 123 , ass wit the irr inp , hav val tha are muc sma tha tho for 123 and 123 , whi are ass wit the inp tha pro inf abo the tar cla .
the mar cha sim als upd the thr lat val ass wit eac tra cas , whi den the cla pro by equ ( 123 ) .
the lat val for a par tra cas are plo ove the cou of the sim in fig 123
the gib sam sca app to be eec in mov the val abo the equ dis fai rap .
to mak pre for tes cas , we can ave tog the pre pro bas on ite aft equ was app rea .
to red com tim , onl eve fth ite was use , sta at ite 123 ( for a tot of ten ite ) .
for eac suc ite , the cov mat for the lat val in tra cas was inv , aft whi the pre mea and var for the lat val in eac of the 123 tes cas was fou , usi the lat val for tra cas sav for tha ite .
a sam of 123 poi fro thi pre dis was use to pro a mon car est of the pre pro for eac of the thr cla .
the nal pre pro wer fou by ave the pre fou in thi way for eac of the ite use .
the gue for the cla in a tes cas was the one wit the lar pre
fig 123 : pro of the fou rel hyp dur the cou of the mar cha sim .
the val are plo on a log sca , wit 123 = sol , 123 = lon das , 123 = sho das , and 123 = dot .
fig 123 : the lat val ass wit one tra cas , for whi x12 = 123 , x12 = 123 , and t = 123 , ove the cou of the mar cha sim .
the thr lat val are sho as cla 123 = sol , cla 123 = das , and cla 123 = dot .
thi pro too abo 123 min on our sgi mac .
the cla err rat on the 123 tes cas was 123 .
thi per is clo to tha of an ana neu net mod .
a pro com of pre per wit tha of oth cla - cat met is bey the sco of thi pap .
( ras ( 123 ) has don ext com of gau pro mod wit oth met for reg pro . )
as exp , the tim req for thi pro var con wit the num of tra cas .
wit onl 123 tra cas , the tim for the mar cha sim was abo 123 min and the tim req to mak pre for the 123 tes cas was les tha a min .
the cla err rat usi onl the rst 123 tra cas was 123 .
123 exa : a reg pro wit out
to dem how the sof can be use to han reg pro wit out , i app a gau pro mod wit non - gau noi to a sim syn pro wit a sin inp var .
cas wer gen in whi the inp var , x , was dra fro a sta gau dis , and the cor tar val cam fro a dis wit mea of
123 + 123 x + 123 sin ( 123 x ) + 123 / ( 123 + x12 )
for mos cas , the dis of the tar abo thi mea was gau wit sta dev 123 .
how , wit pro 123 , a cas was mad an out , for whi the sta dev was 123 ins .
thi dat was mod usi a gau pro for the exp val of the tar , wit the noi ass to com fro a t dis wit 123 deg of fre .
thi is not par clo to the act noi dis , as des abo , but the hea tai of the t dis may nev all thi dat to be mod wit the out hav an und eec .
for com , the dat was als mod und the ass of gau noi .
the dat and the pre fro the two mod are sho in fig 123
for the mod , the cov fun use con a con par ( xed at 123 ) and an exp par ( wit var hyp ) .
the mod wit non - gau noi als inc a sma amo of jit ( j = 123 ) , in ord to imp the con of the mat com use to sam for the lat val .
thi jit is equ to a sma amo of add noi in the mod sin the amo of oth noi is a var hyp , the onl rea eec is to con the tot noi to be no les tha the
mar cha sam for the mod wit t - dis noi was don by alt hy - bri mon car upd for the hyp ( eac con of 123 lea upd ) wit upd for the cas - by - cas noi var .
lat val wer gen in ord to all gib sam upd for the noi var , usi equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , but wer dis the .
the mar cha was sim for 123 suc ite , and
fig 123 : the reg pro wit out .
the 123 tra cas are sho as dot , wit the inp on the hor axi , and the tar on the ver axi .
the sol lin giv the mea of the pre dis usi a mod in whi the noi was ass to com fro a t dis wit 123 deg of fre .
the dot lin giv the mea of the pre dis usi a mod in whi the noi was ass to be gau .
pre wer the mad bas on eve fth ite aft ite 123
the tim req for the sim was abo six min on our sgi mac .
fur det of the mod and the mar cha met can be obt fro the
des of thi exa in the sof doc .
as can be see in fig 123 , the mod wit t - dis noi pro pre tha see mor rea tha tho pro by the mod wit gau noi , bas jus on loo at the sca of the dat .
the pre usi t - dis noi are als clo to the tru fun .
the sof des in thi pap ext the sco of gau pro mod to cla pro and to reg pro wit non - gau noi , by usi a mar cha mon car met in whi lat val for eac cas are rep .
mod can be bas on a var of cov fun , whi can be den in ter of hyp wit hie pri .
the imp als all a wid var of mar cha sam met to be use .
wit the fac , the use of gau pro mod for a var of pro can be exp .
the exa in thi pap sho tha gau pro mod can be pra app to cla pro of mod siz , and to reg pro
wit non - gau noi oth exa of reg and cla mod are inc in the sof doc .
one maj foc for fut wor is to exp the use of ela cov fun in rea pro .
the fai sim mod of sec 123 ill - tra how the hyp den the cov fun can ada det how rel the var inp are for pre the tar .
the ran of cov fun imp per hie mod tha are mor ela tha thi .
for exa , by inc sev exp par in the cov fun , eac wit a sep set of rel hyp , it is pos to den a pri dis tha put con pri wei on mod tha are of a nea add for , in whi the fun is dec int the sum of sev fun , eac of whi dep on onl a sma sub of the inp .
suc a mod can aut det an app add dec , if an add mod is in fac app .
thi mir a sim ide for neu net mod ( nea 123 , sec 123 ) .
the imp des her is rat str .
mos ope are per - for in the sim way tha giv acc res .
a num of mod can be con .
fas con cou pro be obt by upd the lat var usi hyb mon car rat tha gib sam .
com tim for mat ope mig be red by usi the con gra app of gib and mac ( 123 ) .
in ano dir , one mig loo for way of red or eli the nee for jit in the cov fun , sin alt thi app to usu be an acc sol to the pro of poo con mat , the may be som cir whe it is und , suc as whe usi a gau pro to mod noi - fre dat fro com exp ( eg , sac , wel , mit , and wyn 123 ) .
eve wit fur alg imp , gau pro mod are now fea for dat of up to abo a tho cas , usi fai run - of - the - mil com , pro one is wil to wai up to sev hou for res on the lar dat .
usi the mod is the a fea opt for man reg and cla pro .
des the fai unf n12 gro in mem req and n12 gro in com tim of the pre gau pro alg , imp in com tec ove the nex few yea wil lik all the mod to be app to mos pro enc in pra .
bec of the eas wit whi exi hie mod can be den usi gau pro , i bel tha the wil pro to be amo the mos use tec for non reg and cla .
i tha car ras for man hel dis , and for the opp to lea fro the imp of gau pro reg tha he use for his the .
i als tha dav mac and chr wil for the com on the man .
thi res was sup by the nat sci and eng res cou of can .
