ct .
an es re a al ay of ng or ns er nc - ns of ne or re ut es .
in a le ic on em , re ch a on es he an of a an on or an ed se , a an ss el an ly be ed ng ix ns at re le or ts of up to ut a nd es .
rs at ne he ce on of he an ss an be ed ng ov in ds .
on ls re he se as a t on nd ic or it ls or on ns an be ed by ng as ll or nt es un - ng he ns .
re is ow le at ts se ds ng ce ns th al ns .
ls ed in is ay an er gh - el es of he ta , ch as ch ts re nt to ng
a ic an on el st be ed on a or on er he te - al ce of le on ns .
it as en wn or ny rs at ch rs er ns an be ed ng an es ( an 23 ) , nd ly he me el as ng en ed in al cs er he me of ng .
an es em to ve en ly ed as al - se re - on ls , er , rt om he al se of ng es ( ba 23 ) , nd me ns to ng se - ee ta om er ts ( eg , ck , ch , ll , nd nn 23 ) .
ly , i ve wn at ny an on ls ed on al ks ge to an es in he it of an te rk ( al 23 ) .
is as ed on of an ss ls or he gh - al ns to ch al ks re ly ed ( ms nd en 23 ) .
he al rk of en ( 23 ) as ed at us - an ss ls ve er ve ce an al er ic
on ds er a ge of ks th ng cs .
he al im - ty , ty , nd od ce of an ss ls ld ke em ry ve or a de ge of ms .
ne on or he us ct of an ss on ay be at in a rd on it es ix ns se me ts ow as he be of he er of es , nd se ce ts ow as he re of he er of es .
ty rs go , is ay ve ed se of ch ls to ts th ss an ut a ed es , ut th rn rs , it is le to ly an ss ls to ts th a nd or re es .
it ay so be le to ce he me ts ng re ed ms ( bs nd ay
he cs of a an ss el an ly be ed by ng he ce on in ms of rs .
ne ch to ng se er - rs to he ed ta is to te em by um od ( or um ed od ) , as as ng en ne in he xt of al cs ( eg , ia nd ll 23 ) .
in a ly an ch , he rs re en or ns .
ns re en de by ng er he or on or he rs , ch an be ne ng ov in te lo ds .
se wo es en ve ar ts ( ms nd en 23 , en 23 ) , ut he ly an ch ay be re st en he ls re te .
ng an ss ls to on ms ts ew al ms , ce he nt on of ll es is no er an .
te ds of an ce or ch ls ve en ed by er nd ms ( 23 ) nd by bs nd ay ( 3b ) .
a al ch to ly ng si - on nd er ed ls ( eg , or a on se ) is to se a ov in te lo me in ch ed nt es ed th ch se re ly ed .
is er es is ch to on ng ic or it ls , nd to on ls in ch he se ws a t on .
i ve en re in c or ix ms at ts an ss ds or on nd on , in he me rk as is ed by my an al rk re .
is re is is ly le or ch nd al se . 23 he ce ns ed ay st of al ts , nd ay be ed in ms of rs , as ed in il in on 23
se ce ns de ty ar to at of he al rk ls .
he re ts ll an ce or se al ls ng ix ns nd ov in ng ds , as ed in ns 23 nd 23
in ns 23 nd 23 , i te he se of he re on a ee - ay on em , ng a el at an fy ch of he ts re nt to ng he ss , nd on a on em th i de by ng me as or re ch .
st , er , i ll
ow he ks om my me ge , at tp : / / ww . cs . to . ca / rd / .
he on ed
re is at of 23 - 23 - 23
ce in re il he ea of an ng ng an es .
23 on nd on ng an es
, x ( i )
me we ve ed ta or n es , ( x ( 23 ) , t ( 23 ) ) , ( x ( 23 ) , t ( 23 ) ) , .
, ( x ( n ) , t ( n ) ) , in ch x ( i ) = x ( i ) is he or of p ts ( rs ) or se i nd t ( i ) is he ed et ( se ) .
ur ry se is to ct he et , t ( 23 ) , or a ew se re we ve ed ly he ts , x ( 23 ) .
( we ht es be ed in on as ll , ut re is no nt in ng a el at as ed to re he es at ld rt od ve ce . ) or a on em , he ts ll be al - d; or a on em , he ts ll be om me te et of ss ls , ch we ll ke to be ( 23 , .
, k 23 ) .
it ll es be nt to nt he ns of he ts , t ( i ) , in ms of ed nt es , y ( i ) , ed th ch se .
an on nd on ls re ly ed in ms of a or on or a et of wn el rs , om ch a or on or he rs is ed , nd ly ed ly .
if ur us is on on or a re se , er , he al lt is a ve on or a ew et ue , t ( 23 ) , at is ed by ng er he wn rs .
is ve on an re be ed ly in ms of he ts or he ew se , x ( 23 ) , nd he ts nd ts or he n ed es , ut ny on of he el rs .
at is re , er an ng ur or ge in ms of a or or he rs , we an ad te er he rs to in a or on or he ts in ny et of es .
a ve on or an wn et an en be ed by ng on he wn ts .
se ns re st ly ed ut if ll he ns re an .
ly , an es re le gh to nt a de ty of ng on ls , ny of ch ld ve an te er of rs if ed in re al
re ng ch ic ls , er , it ay lp to ee ow he me
ks or a le ar on el , ch an be en as
t ( i ) = +
u u + ( i )
re ( i ) is he an se or se i , ed to be nt om se to se , nd to ve an ro nd ce 23 ut at nd he u re wn .
or he nt , we ll me at 23
et us ve nd he u nt an rs th ns of ro nd es u .
or ny et of es th ed ts , x ( 23 ) , x ( 23 ) , .
. , is or on or rs es a or on or he ed et es , t ( 23 ) , t ( 23 ) , .
. , ch
ll be te an , th an ro , nd th es en by
ht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = e " +
u u + ( i ) ! +
u + 23
u u + j ! #
re ij is ne if i = j nd ro se .
is an nd ce on re nt to ne a an ss ng a on er le ps en he ts nd he et .
( ly ng , ne ht sh to ne he rm an ss to ns er ns om he ts to he et .
he ip ve is ot al , ce ( ue to se ) t ( i ) ay er om t ( j ) en if x ( i ) is al to x ( j ) .
he er ge is nt re , er . )
se ow at we ow he ts , x ( 23 ) , .
, x ( n ) , or n ed es , as ll as x ( 23 ) , he ts in a se or ch we sh to ct he et .
we an se on ( 23 ) to te he 23 by 23 ce ix of he ed ts , t ( 23 ) , .
, t ( n ) , t ( 23 ) .
er th he on at he ns re ro , se es ne a an nt on or he ts in he ed nd ed es .
we an on on he wn ts to in he ve on or t ( 23 ) en t ( 23 ) , .
, t ( n ) .
ll - wn ts ( eg , on es 23 , on 23 ) ow at is ve on is an , th an nd ce en by
t ( 23 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = kt 23 t t ( 23 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = v kt 23 k
re c is he n by n ce ix or he ts in he ed es ( om ua - on ( 23 ) ) , t = ( t ( 23 ) t ( n ) ) t is he or of wn et es in se es , k is he or of es en t ( 23 ) nd he n wn ts , nd v is he or ce of t ( 23 ) ( ie , ov ( t ( 23 ) , t ( 23 ) ) om on ( 23 ) ) .
in ce , ur or ge ll ly ot be nt to x te es or he rs at ne he ce ( , , nd he u or he le el of on ( 23 ) ) .
we ll re ve or ns to he rs , nd se ns on a le of es om ir or on .
ng om he or on es on of he og od ed on he n ed es , ch is
og et c
tt 23 t
he es of l an so be ed , nd ed en ng , as ed in ec - ns 23 nd 23
is re is ly ve or he le on el st ed , ch is er ed by re rd al es .
er , he an
ss re an le re ng ls by ly ng a nt ce on an at of on ( 23 ) .
or le , a on el ed on ry th ns an be ed ng he ce on
ht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 23 xp
u ) 23 ! + 23
re , nd he u re rs , ch ld ly be en me or bu - on er an ng ed .
er es or he ce on re ed in
on ls th on - an se nd ls or on ms , re he ts re om he et ( 23 , .
, k 23 ) , an be ed in ms of a an ss el or nt es ed th ch se .
se nt es re ed to ne a on or he et in a se .
or le , a ic el or ry ts an be ed in ms of nt es
y ( i ) by ng he on or he et in se i be en by
he nt es re en me an ss or , ch as
p ( t ( i ) = 23 ) = 23 + xp ( id : 23 ) y ( i ) ( id : 23 ) 23
hy ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 23 xp
is ce on es a el in ch he ty of he et ng 23 es ly as a on of he ts .
en re re ee or re es , an us el an be ed ng k nt
k 23 , ch ne ss es as ws :
es or ch se , y ( i )
, y ( i )
p ( t ( i ) = k ) = xp ( id : 23 ) y ( i )
he k nt es an be en nt an ss rs .
( is on is nt , ut ng he cy by ng ne of se nt es to ys be ro ld ce an ry ry to he or . )
or al ns , he ce on of on ( 23 ) st ly be od -
ed by he on of at st a ll nt of er , as ws :
hy ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 23 xp
u ) 23 ! + jj 23
re , j es he nt of er , ch is ar to he se in a on el .
ng a ll nt of er ( eg , j = 23 ) es he ix ns er
ed , nd es he cy of ng , le ng ly a ll ct on
he ct of a it el an be ed by ng a er nt of er .
a it el or ry ts ld be ed ly in ms of nt es , z ( i ) , ng a ce on ut er , as ws :
p ( t ( i ) = 23 ) = ( id : 23 ) z ( i ) ( id : 23 )
re is he rd an ve on on .
is on of he it el an be ed ng nt es , y ( i ) , se ce on es a er rm ( as in on ( 23 ) ) .
en j = 23 , he y ( i ) an be ed as ms of er - ee nt es , z ( i ) , nd nt er of ce ne .
a it el an en be
p ( t ( i ) = 23 | y ( i ) ) = ( id : 23 ) y ( i ) ( id : 23 )
re ( y ) = ( 23 if y < 3; 23 if y >= 23 ) .
ng er he er in y ( i ) es he ct of on ( 23 ) .
ly , ng up he de of th he er nd on - er ts of he ce ( eg , so at j = 23 ) ll ve he ct of on ( 23 ) ed , at ch nt he ld on an be ed by he ic on of on ( 23 ) , ce he de of y ( i ) ll ly be ge gh at he ue of he ic on ll be se to ro or ne . 23
if he ce on ed ws he nt es to be ny on of he ts ( us er ) , he me ss es ll be le ng er a ic or a it el .
he wo ts of ls ld er ly in he ct or er ss ba - ty ns at ey dy .
it is ot et ar ch of he wo ls ll be er in al ns .
it is so le to ke he nt of er be a er , ng he ta to ne ch of he wo ls is re te , or to ct an te el .
nt es an so be ed to ne on ls th on - an se , th he nt ue ng he se - ee ue of he on on .
( in ce , it is ly ry to de a ll nt of er in he ce on or he nt es , ch as he ct of ng me um nt of an se . ) a t on or he se is ly nt , ce it an be ed in ms of a an se el in ch he se es or he es re ly wn om an se ma on .
in he on of is el , se se - by - se se es re ly ed , nd ed .
he nt es re ed to le or he se es , ut an be ed ce ed or is se .
it ld be le or he re to ow he on of ng he or ns ad of he ic , by ng a it el to be ed ly , ut is is ot ne at he nt .
it ht so be le to ow he ic to be ed by er on at es he ct ic el en me te nt of er is ed , ut is as ot en ed in il er .
23 ce ns nd ir rs
a de ty of ce ns an be ed in he an ss rk , ub - ct to he nt at a id ce on st lt in a ve te ce ix or he ts in a et of ny er of es , in ch he ts ke on ny le es .
in a an el , he ce on ll ly nd on us rs , ch re es en or ns .
ch er - rs an ol he nt of se in a on el , he le of on in he on on , he ee to ch us ut es re nt , nd he es of nt ve ts of a el .
he or on of se rs ll be ed on es at re te or he ta at as
ng he et of id ce ns is ot al , as en by he en - ve ns in he ok by om ( 23 ) .
ne ay to ct a ty of ri - ce ns is by ng nd ng er er ce ns , ce he nt - by - nt um or ct of ny wo ic , ve te es is so ic nd ve te ( rn nd on 23 , 23 . 23 nd 23 . 23 ) .
ms of ce ns re ul in ng ls th an ve re , ce he ce on or a um of nt an es is ly he um of ir te ce ns .
ts of ce ns re ul in ng a ce on or es th al ts in ms of ce ns or le ts .
he nt re ts ce ns at re he um of ne or re ms
of he ng es :
23 ) a nt rt , ch is he me or ny ir of es , ss of he ts in se es .
is ds a nt nt to he on on ( or to he nt es or a on el ) , th he or or he ue of is nt nt ng he ce en by is nt rm in he ce on .
23 ) a ar rt , ch or he ce en es i nd j as he rm
is es a ar on of he ts , as en in on 23 , or ds a ar nt to he on , if re re er ms in he ce as ll .
23 ) a er rt , ch is ro or nt es , nd a nt or he ce of a se th lf .
er is ed to ve he ng of he ix ns , or to ce he ct of a it on el .
he se in a on el is ar , ut is ed ly in is on ( er ts he nt es , nd gh em he s; se ts ly he ts ) .
23 ) ny er of al ts , ch of ch , or he ce en es i
nd j , as he rm
if re re al al ts , ey ay se nt es of r , , nd he u .
or he ce on to be ve te , r st be in he ge 23 to 23
he lt ue of r = 23 es a on ( or ve nt of a on ) at is ly le , ut ot ed to be of ny ar rm .
he rs of se ms in he ce on ay be ed , or ey ay be ed as rs , th en or ns , pt at he er , r , or an al rt st ly be ed .
me of he le ns er ns at an be ed ng ce ns of is rm re ed in re 23
( se re ns of a le ut , so he ex u is ed ) .
he op ft nd op ht ch ow ns wn ly om a an ss th a ce on ng of a le al rt .
he ce er ch he on es by an nt le to ts ll ge , en by 23 / , is er or he op - ht an he op - ft .
he om ft ws ns ed ng a ce on at is he um of nt , ar , nd al ts .
he de of he al rt , en by , is er ll , so he ns rt ly ly om ht es .
he om ht ws ns wn om a or se ce on is he um of wo al ts , at ce on at nt es , nd th nt es .
he re an ce ch ts of ly wn ns in ne nd wo ns , ng he ky on of he ce ix or he ts er a id of ut ts , as ed in on 23
or ms th re an ne ut le , he u nd u rs ol he ee to ch ch ut is nt to ng he et .
if u is se to ro , ut u ll ve le ct on he ee of ce en es ( or at st , le ct on he on of he ce ue to he al rt in ch he u er rs ) .
wo es ld re ve gh ce en if ey ve ly nt es or ut u ie , ut u is ly ed .
in al ns , he nt rt nd er rt ( if ny ) of he ce ld be en ed es , ut he le or on ld ot be nt to x he er rs , ch fy he es of he ar nd al ts , nd he es of on nd es of he us ts .
he rd on of he se or a on el ld so ly be wn .
se rs ld re ly be en ly ue or ns .
se ns ld be er , er , as ng an er or ll en ce an er or .
he rs or rs ed by he re ll ke he me rm .
if is a er ( ll of ch ke on ly ve es ) , he ue of = 23 an be en a ma or th ty
ht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = xp ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 )
ht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = xp ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 )
ht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 23 + x ( i ) x ( j )
+ 23 xp ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 )
ht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = xp ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) + 23 xp ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 )
re 23 : ns wn om an es th us ce ns .
ch of he hs ws wo ns at re ly wn om he an ss th an ro nd th he ce on en ow he ph .
re , is a ve pe er , nd is he an of .
he re ts or ns in ms of nd 23 ( se ts nd to se of he al er , ) .
ge es of ce rs or ed ar 23 , as ll es of ce ue rs . 23
le rs , ch as in an al rt , or he se rd on or a le on el , ay er be en a or as ed ve , or be en a ed ue ( nt to ng = ) .
rs at me in ps , ch as he u in an al rt , or he u in a ar rt , an be en al rs , ed in ms of a er - el er ed th he up , ch as no ct ct on he ce on , ut ch es he an or he er - el rs .
or le , he u rs or an al rt ht be ed by a er - el er , .
at he op el , = 23 en a ma or of he rm
or a en ue of , he u rs ed th ar ts re de - nt , th u = 23
u ng a ma or th an , as ws :
p ( u | ) =
te at he pe rs or he wo ls , 23 nd 23 , an be nt ( 23 is he me or ll ts , u , er ) .
he op el of he hy an be ed ( ly , 23 = ) , in ch se he u re nt .
he er el of he hy an so be ed ( ly , 23 = ) , in ch se he u re ll al to .
ly th ls an be ed ( 23 = 23 = ) , in ch se he u ve ed es .
se al rs an so nk er he u rs in he ar rt of he ce , as ll as he se rd ns or a on el th re an ne et .
er , at nt re is no ay of ng rs of nt es , or of ng rs ng to nt ts of he ce on ( eg , he u or nt al ts ) .
en re is re an ne et or nt ue or ch se , he me rs re ly ed or he nt an es at el he ip of ch ue to he ts .
he ly on to is is at nt se rd ns re le or on ls th re an ne et .
in st to he te ns or nt ce ns , he re ly es at he an on or he an ss is ys ro .
is is te or ms re or ge is ue .
te at ng a ro an
re is an ry ct to is rm of or on , ce ls ot ly ow se he or is , ut so ts pe .
is ld be ed by ng he ma or be or = r , th r ng ny ed er .
he nt me is us to he rs ed or al rk ls , re r = 23 ts in a te or th me al es .
an ss es ot an at we ct he al on on to ke on ve nd ve es er al ts of ts ge .
if he ce on as a ge nt rm , we ld ot be ed if he al on re ys ve , or ys ve ( at st er he ge of st ) .
ng a an on of ro ly ts ur ck of or ge as to at he gn ll rn ut to be .
in ce , it ll ly be le to rm he ts so at ir an is ly ro , in er to te ny ed or a ge nt rm in he ce .
ng a ge nt rm is le se it es he nd - o or in he ix
23 ix ns
es ng a an ss el en ar es or ts am - rs an be ed ng ns ng he ce ix or he ts or nt es ed th he ed es .
if te er es re wn a ri , se ix ns re ll at re ed to ke ns or he ts in ew es .
in he re on on re he rs re wn , ch ix ns re ed to rt he ov in ng ds ed in on 23 , nd en to ke ns ng he ng le of er es ( nd nt es , if ed ) .
he al ct in se ns is he n by n ce ix of he nt es ng he ed es , or of he et es es , or a on el .
is ce ix , ch we ll te by c , ds on he ed ts or se es , nd on he ar es of he rs , th of ch re ed ed re .
he ty of ns ng c is ed by ts on er he io of ts st ue to ts st ue .
on er is ge , nd - o or in he ix ns ay se em to il or to be ly te .
is al em an be ed by ng ce ns at de er ms ( ee on 23 ) , ce he er es ly to ry ue of he ix , ng he on er .
en c is he ce ix or he ts in a on el , he se ce as an nt ct .
or st ms , it rs at he on of a ll nt of er to he ce ll ot ly ct he al es of he el , nd ay en be le .
ly , he re es ot pt to le ce es at re ry
he nt on is ed on ng he ky on of c at is , he er - ar ix , l , or ch c = lt .
he ky on an be nd by a le hm ( ee , or le , ed 23 , on 23 ) , ch ns in me al to 23
ce he ky on as en nd , he nt of c an ly be ed as he re of he ct of he al ts of l .
( in ce , he og of he nt is nd om he um of he gs of he al
ts . ) er se of he ky on is in ng nt or et es om he or .
rd ds an be ed to ly te a or , n , ed of n nt an es th an ro nd ce ne .
ne an en te he or ln , ch ll ve an ro nd ce ix lt = c .
is re as ed to ce he ts in re 23 , ng he ce ix or he ts er a id of ut es , th he on of an le nt of er .
he ry se of he ky on is in ng he se of c , ch es th in he ve on or a ew se ( ns ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) ) nd in he og od ( on ( 23 ) ) .
se ns ld be ed ut ly ng he se of c , ce 23 b an be nd ng he ky on by st ng lv = b or v ng rd on , nd en ng lt u = v or u ng rd on .
er , it is re nt to ly te he se , ce it ll en be ed ay in er to te es of he og od .
on of 23 is ne by ng he re st ed to te 23 b or he n rs b at re ll ro pt or ne nt th he ue ne .
is es me al to 23
ce 23 as en ed , we an re to ke ns om a on el by ng b = 23 t , re t is he or of ts in he ng es .
he an of he ve on or he et in a st se an en be nd in me al to n .
we st te he or , k , of es en he ts in he st se nd in he n ng es .
we en te he ve an of on ( 23 ) as kt b .
is is he od ed in he nt on .
an ve is to ve lu = k or u nd to ve lv = t or v , nd en te he ve an as ut v .
is is ss nt , ng me al to 23 or ch st se , ut bs nd ay ( 3a ) rt at it is re te en c is ly ed .
if we re he ve ce as ll as he an , we st te kt 23 k , or se in on ( 23 ) , ch ll ke me al to 23
ns or on ls ve ar ns , ut ed on he nt ue ed th a st se .
a or of nt es , y , ed th he ng es st be le .
he or of es , k , en se nt es nd he nt ue in a st se an be ed , nd a ve an nd ce or he nt ue in he st se an en be nd as ve .
a le of es om is an ve on an ly be ed , om ch te lo es or he ss es in he st se an be ed by ly ng he es at re ed by ng he nt es in is le to on ( 23 ) or ( 23 ) .
ne ay so sh to le om he nt or on of he ts or la - nt es in a et of es , er as rt of me er on , or in er to ot on ns wn om he or on .
al on es or he rs , or he nt es ed th ng es ( or a on el ) , nd or he se - by - se se es ( or a on el th t - ed se ) , se ns ll be an , th ns nd es en by al -
ns of ns ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) .
in a on el , or le , if y is he or of nt es in a et of m st es , nd t is he or of et es in n ng es ,
e ( y | t ) = kt 23 t
ov ( y | t ) = w kt 23 k
re c is he n by n ce ix or he ts in ng es , w is he m by m ce ix or nt es in he st es , nd k is he n by m ix of es en ts in ng es nd nt es in st es .
ce se ns nd es ve en ed , a ue or y an be ed ng he ky on of ts ce ix , as ed ve in rd to ng om he or .
he ov in ds ed to le om he or on of he pa - rs in a on el re on of he og od , l , of on ( 23 ) .
as en ve , is is ly ne ng he ky on of c .
or me of he ov in ng ds , he es of l th ct to he us hy - rs re so ed .
he ve of he og od th ct to a er an be en as ws ( ia nd ll 23 ) :
tt 23 c
he ce of he ct in he st rm an be ed in me al to 23 , ng at 23 as dy en ed .
he nd rm an so be ed in me al to 23 , by st ng b = 23 t ( ch is ly ed ay , to te l lf ) , ng is on he ft by he ix of es , nd ly ng he lt by bt .
rt om he on of b , is re st be ed or ch er , nd or ch on et , if re is re an ne .
he ov in ds ed or on ls re a ar on ,
ut th he or of ts , t , ed by he or of nt nt es , y .
or ge ta ts , he me ed or se ns is ed by at ed to rm he ky on of c , nd to en te 23 , or ch he er of ns ed ws in on to 23
ed , on es th ry es , he me ed or se ns ay ow at a te en er an 23 , ce er es ll ot t in he st he .
he re ts to ce ch he ts by er le ng es ng ws er an wn ns , ut or ge es he wn on ur gi ne an ll be al .
or ll ta ts ( eg , 23 es ) , he me ed to te he es of he og od th ct to he rs an te , en gh is me ws ly in on to 23
is ay ur , or le , en re re ny rs ng he ce of ny ut es , so at ng he
ix of es of he es es a ot of me .
se ns an be ed up if he al es or he al ts of he es ve en ed ( as se ar in he ns or he es ) .
he re es is en n is ll gh at he ry ed to do so is ot oo e; en n is er , he er ns te ay .
23 ov in ng
he ce ns or st an ss ls ll in wn er - rs , ch st be ed er in a ly an nt .
he er of rs ll ry om nd ee or ur or a ry le on el up to al en or re or a el th ny ts , se es re ly ed ng rs ch as he u of on ( 23 ) .
ov in te lo ds ( ee ( al 23 ) or a ew ) em to be he ly le ch to er - ng se ns , at st or he re ex ls .
or on ls , nt es or ch ng se st so be ed er , nd or on ls in ch he se as a t on , we st te er he se - by - se se ri - es .
se nt es nd es an be ed in he te of he ov in nd ed ng th he rs .
ng om he or on of he rs is ed by re - ng em in ic rm , as is es he ng ds nt of he le of he ta .
he ly - ed od of bs ng ot ly be ed to is em , ce it ms lt to le om he al ns or ne er en es or he rs ( nd he nt es , if ny ) .
he is hm ld be ed th me le al on , ch as a an th al ce ix .
he re ts is on , ng th a ty of er ov in ng ds .
er , le ds ch as is re he on of gh ty by an nt om lk .
it is ly er or st ls to se a od at an ss se om ks ( al 23 , 23 ) .
he st te ay to ss om ks or is em ms to be to se he id te lo od of ne , dy , on , nd th ( 23 ) , or he nt of is od ue to tz ( 23 ) .
i ve ed he id te lo od to do an ce or al rk ls ( al 23 ) , nd en ( 23 ) as ed it or an ss on .
al ts of he id te lo od re ed by he ov in es at i se or th he al rk nd he an ss re .
i ll ve ly a ef , al on of he od re .
re ls an be nd re ( al 23 , 3; en 23 ) .
he id te lo od es om ks by ng um es at re ed th he on es at re he us of st .
or he an ss on , he on es re he rs ng he ce on .
he te of he on es in he me ay as he on
nd um of a al le ng gh a on of le al gy .
he um es he le to ue in a nt on il ch me as a on of gh gy ( ow ty ) is ed .
is on st be ed a it in er to re at he ct on is ed om , ut ot so ch at le om lk ur ts .
in ce , he al ns at be ow he on nd um ge gh me re ed , nd he as ue to on or is ed by ng or ng he ew te in he is le .
he og on is ly ed .
in er to rm a og te , he es of he og of he or ty th ct to he rs st be ed .
to de er to pt an te ( or ce of es ) , he og of he or ty st be nd ( pt or ts ng nt ) .
he og or ty is ed om he og of he or es or he rs , ch ve he ly ed ma rm , nd he og od , om on ( 23 ) .
he es re nd by ng he ve of he og or , ch is ly ed , to he ve of he og od , ch is ed ng on ( 23 ) .
in he al id te lo od of ne , et al .
( 23 ) , al og es re ne , er ch a on er to pt he lt is de .
he um is so ed at is me .
a on ng ws of es ( al 23 ) an be ed to se he ce ty .
in he on ue to tz ( 23 ) , an ce on is de er ch og te , er ch he um is ly ly ed .
i er to is as id te lo th ce of he um .
or id te lo to rk ll , te es or he og es st be ed if oo ge a ze is ed , he ce te ll be ry ow , ut if he ze is oo ll , ss ll be ly ow .
nt es an be ed or nt s; is is nt to ng he rs ( in ir ic rm ) ng nt le rs .
he re es a ic re at ly ts a ze or ch er .
se ns re ed on es of he nd es of he og or ty th ct to he rs , ch te ow ge a ge an be de to a er ut ng to a on of ow ty .
se ly ed es an be ( nd ly re ) ly ed by ng em ll by me or , ch is en on he is of ry ns .
ly , he al le of he cs is to et he ve es or nt rs .
he cs ed at nt re er le .
he es or gh - el pa - rs re ed wn by he re ot of he er of ow - el rs at ey ol .
is is in rd th ow ne ld ct he th of ir or on to le .
ly , he ze or he se ce in a on el is ed wn by he re ot of he er of ng es .
er , he es or he er rs ( eg , he nd u rs in an al rt of he ce ) re ot ed on he is of he er of ng es .
er is is he
ht ng to do ds on er he or on or se rs es re ly ed as he er of ng es es .
i re at se or ns re ly re ed an he or , ut at ey do ot me re nd re ed as he er of ng es es , pt ps or he u rs in an al rt th r < 23 , or ch he ns ed re al .
ia nd ll ( 23 ) er is em in a al cs xt , er he on at he ge of he ut es in - es th he er of ng es , ch i me is ot he al on or on nd on ms .
if al ng es ad de er ng in a ed on , it ms at ey an de ly a ed nt of on ut he rs , ss he on ed as a al re , in ch on is ed at ll es .
or a on el , se id te lo es of he rs se he od ed on he nt nt es ed th ng es , ot on he ts ly .
se er es st be ed th es of he nt es es , or ch bs ng is ly ed .
ew nt es re en or ch se in a al an . 23 se es re wn om he al on or ch a nt ue en he ed et or at ng se , nd en he nt es of he rs nd ll he er nt es .
he ty or is al on is al to he ct of he od en he et , om on ( 23 ) or ( 23 ) , nd he an al ty en he er nt es .
he al ty or y ( i ) en he er nt es , ll of ch re ed in y , is al to xp ( 23 23 yt 3y ) , nd an be nd in me al to n if 23 as dy en ed .
he al al ty is og - ve , nd ce an ly be ed om ng he ve on od of ks nd ld ( 23 ) .
ce 23 as en ed , ng me al to 23 , a te bs ng an es me al ly to 23
it re es se to rm te a ew bs ng ns en ch te of he rs , as is ds le to he me ts , nd ly es he ov in ix er .
he re so ts on ls th t - ed se , ed as us - an se th se - by - se es wn om an se ma on .
he ov in st en le ow or he se - by - se se es , ch re ed to te he es of he ts .
in ne ch , se - by - se nt es re ed , nd ed ng bs ng , in a er us to at ed or on ls .
bs ng an en ly be ne or he se - by - se se es as ll , ed ly on he rs ng he se el , he nt es , nd he ts .
he re so ts a nd ch , er , in ch nt es re ot pt nd ly .
ad , nt es re ly
en re re al nt es or ch se , it es no ce er he er op of he
an is er es or er he al es or ne se .
re 23 : he 23 ng es ed or he ee - ay on em .
ch se is ed ac - ng to ts es or 23 nd 23 , th he ot ol ng he ss , as ws :
ss 23 = ed re ss 23 = us gn ss 23 = en le
ed st re he se es re ed , ng ns ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , nd en ed er ng ed to te ew es or he se es .
23 le : a ee - ay on em
23 , x ( i )
23 , x ( i )
23 , nd x ( i )
to te he se of he re or on , i ed it to a ic ee - ay on em .
rs of ta ms , ( x ( i ) , t ( i ) ) re ed by st ly ng es x ( i ) ly om he rm on er he al ( 23 , 23 ) .
he ss of he em , t ( i ) , ed as 23 , 23 , or 23 , as en ed as ws : if he wo - al an ce of ( x ( i ) 23 ) om he nt ( 23 , 23 ) as ss an 23 , he ss as et to 3; se , if 23 x ( i ) 23 as ss an 23 , he ss as et to 3; nd if er of se ns ld , he ss as et to 23
te at 23 , x ( i ) 23 nd x ( i ) 23 , le or on of he et re he es of x ( i ) 23 us nt an se of rd on 23 .
i ed 23 es in is ay , of ch 23 re ed or ng he el , nd 23 or ng he ng ve ce .
he 23 ng se re wn in re 23
23 ve no ct on he ss .
he ts , x ( i )
23 , x ( i ) 23 + 23 x ( i )
23 , x ( i ) 23 , nd x ( i )
23 , nd x ( i )
23 , x ( i )
23 , x ( i )
is ta as ed ng a an ss or he nt es , y ( i ) , se co - ce on ed of ee ms a nt rt ( ed at 23 ) , an al rt in ch he de , , nd he es or he ur ts , u , re le er - rs , nd a er rt , ed at j = 23
he ly ge nt of er es an ct se to a it el , as ed in on 23
ce ch of he u an ry ly ( er he ol of a on er - el er ) , he el is ca -
le of ng at me of he ts re in ct nt to he sk of ng he et .
we pe at he or on of u or se nt ts ll be ed ar ro , so at ey ll ot de ve ce .
he nt rm of id te lo as ed in he ng , as is ws he nt es to be ed en ch og te of he rs .
a ly ow ce as ed or he st ew og es , in er to ow gy to be ed ly at st ( gh nt of he um , nd nt on of ic gy ) .
a er ce as ed er , in er to ss om lk ur .
re ry te of he rs , he nt es ed th ng es re ed ng 23 bs ng ns .
a ce of ve of se ed bs ng nd og es re ne in ch ng on , er ch he rs nd nt es re ed or le er se .
ng as ed or 23 ch ns ( 23 og es ) , ch ok ut 23 es on ur gi ne .
te ls ng he el nd he ng re ed ay be nd in
he re on , re is em is so ed as an le .
he ce of he ov in on an be ed by ng ow he es of he rs ge er he se of he on .
re 23 ws he ss of he u rs in he al rt of he ce .
as ed , we ee at by ut on 23 , an nt um as en ed in ch he rs 23 nd 23 , ed th he nt ts , ve es at re ch er an se or 23 nd 23 , ch re ed th he ts at de on ut he et ss .
he ov in on so es he ee nt es ed th ch ng se , ch ne he ss es by on ( 23 ) .
se nt es or a ar ng se re ed er he se of he on in re 23
he bs ng ns ar to be ve in ng se es ut ir um on ly ly .
to ke ns or st es , we an ge er he ve es ed on ns er um as ly ed .
to ce on me , ly ry th on as ed , ng at on 23 ( or a al of en ns ) .
or ch ch on , he ce ix or he nt es in ng es as ed , er ch he ve an nd ce or he nt es in ch of he 23 st es as nd , ng he nt es or ng es ed or at on .
a le of 23 ts om is ve on as ed to ce a te lo te of he ve es or ch of he ee es .
he al ve es re nd by ng he ns nd in is ay or ch of he ns ed .
he ss or he ss in a st se as he ne th he st ve
re 23 : ss of he ur ce rs ng he se of he ov in on .
he es re ed on a og le , th 23 = id , 23 = ng sh , 23 = rt sh , nd 23 = ed .
re 23 : he nt es ed th ne ng se , or ch 23 = 23 , 23 = 23 , nd t = 23 , er he se of he ov in on .
he ee nt es re wn as ss 23 = id , ss 23 = ed , nd ss 23 = ed .
is re ok ut 23 es on ur gi ne .
he on or te on he 23 st es as 3% .
is ce is se to at of an us al rk el .
a er on of ve ce th at of er si - on ds is nd he pe of is er .
( en ( 23 ) as ne ve ns of an ss ls th er ds or on ms . )
as ed , he me ed or is em es ly th he er of ng es .
th ly 23 ng es , he me or he ov in on as ut 23 es nd he me ed to ke ns or he 23 st es as ss an a te .
he on or te ng ly he st 23 ng es as 3% .
23 le : a on em th rs
to te ow he re an be ed to le on ms th rs , i ed a an ss el th on - an se to a le ic em th a le ut le .
es re ed in ch he ut le , x , as wn om a rd an on , nd he ng et ue me om a on th an of
23 + 23 x + 23 in ( 23 x ) + 23 / ( 23 + 23 )
or st es , he on of he et ut is an as an th rd on 23 .
er , th ty 23 , a se as de an er , or ch he rd on as 23 ad .
is ta as ed ng a an ss or he ed ue of he et , th he se ed to me om a t on th 23 es of om .
is is ot ly se to he al se on , as ed ve , ut he vy ls of he t on ay ss ow is ta to be ed ut he rs ng an ue ct .
or on , he ta as so ed er he on of an se .
he ta nd he ns om se wo ls re wn in re 23
or se ls , he ce on ed ed a nt rt ( ed at 23 ) nd an al rt ( th le rs ) .
he el th on - an se so ed a ll nt of er ( j = 23 ) , in er to ve he ng of he ix ns ed to le or he nt es .
is er is nt to a ll nt of al se in he l; ce he nt of er se is a le er , he ly al ct is to in he al se to be no ss an he
ov in ng or he el th t - ed se as ne by ng hy - id te lo es or he rs ( ch ng of 23 og es ) th es or he se - by - se se es .
nt es re ed in er to ow bs ng es or he se es , ng ns ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , ut re ed er .
he ov in as ed or 23 ch ns , nd
re 23 : he on em th rs .
he 23 ng es re wn as ts , th he ut on he al is , nd he et on he al is .
he id ne es he an of he ve on ng a el in ch he se as ed to me om a t on th 23 es of om .
he ed ne es he an of he ve on ng a el in ch he se as ed to be an .
ns re en de ed on ry th on er on 23
he me ed or he on as ut ix es on ur gi ne .
er ls of he el nd he ov in od an be ed om he
on of is le in he re on .
as an be en in re 23 , he el th t - ed se es ns at em re le an se ed by he el th an se , ed st on ng at he ot of he ta .
he ns ng t - ed se re so er to he ue on .
he re ed in is er ds he pe of an ss ls to on ms nd to on ms th on - an se , by ng a ov in te lo od in ch nt es or ch se re ed .
ls an be ed on a ty of ce ns , ch an be ed in ms of rs th al rs .
he on so ws a de ty of ov in ng ds to be ed .
th se es , he ss of an ss ls or a ty of ms an be ed .
he es in is er ow at an ss ls an be ly ed to on ms of te ze , nd to on ms
th on - an e; er es of on nd on ls re ed in he re on .
ne or us or re rk is to re he es of te ce ns in al ms .
he ly le el of on 23 us - es ow he rs ng he ce on an ly ne ow nt he us ts re or ng he et .
he ge of ce ns ed ts al ls at re re te an is .
or le , by ng al al ts in he ce on , ch th a te et of ce rs , it is le to ne a or on at ts le or ht on ls at re of a ly ve rm , in ch he on is ed to he um of al ns , ch of ch ds on ly a ll et of he ts .
ch a el an ly ne an te ve on , if an ve el is in ct te .
is rs a ar ea or al rk ls ( al 23 , on 23 ) .
he on ed re is er rd .
st ns re er - ed in he st ay at es le ts .
a er of ns an be ed .
er ce ld ly be ed by ng he nt es ng id te lo er an bs ng .
on me or ix ns ht be ed by ng he te nt ch of bs nd ay ( 3a ) .
in er on , ne ht ok or ys of ng or ng he ed or er in he ce on , ce gh is rs to ly be an le on to he em of ly ed es , re ay be me es re it is le , ch as en ng a an ss to el se - ee ta om er ts ( eg , ck , ch , ll , nd nn 23 ) .
en ut er ic ts , an ss ls re ow le or ts of up to ut a nd es , ng ly un - of - he - ll rs , ed ne is ng to it up to al rs or ts on he er ts .
ng se ls is re a le on or ny on nd on ms .
te he ly le 23 th in ry ts nd 23 th in on me of he nt an ss ms , ts in er gy er he xt ew rs ll ly ow se ls to be ed to st ms ed in ce .
se of he se th ch le al ls an be ed ng an es , i ve at ey ll ve to be ng he st ul es or ic on nd on .
i nk rl en or ny ul ns , nd or he ty to rn om he on of an ss on at he ed or is is .
i so nk id ay nd is ms or ir ts on he pt .
is ch as ed by he al es nd ng ch il of da .
