the ity of ing a ate ove in the rid nte rlo thm can be sed by ing a ion to be een ows of ral tes at the ing and end of the ory , ith a ate hin the ted win - dow ing sen ing to the ann ies .
the led nce ion sed to ify the thm ill lds ith his ure , ded the art ate is mly ned hin its dow .
the new ure is own lly to tly ove nce for a est tem of led os -
( res 123 , 123 , and 123 are not ent in his ion . )
the rid nte rlo thm of ane , edy , ton , and eth ( 123 ) is a hod of ing rom lex ons , uch as ose red in cal ics , hat nes the ges of cal ods ( 123 ) ith ose of the lis nte rlo hod ( 123 ) .
ese and ted ods are wed by int ( 123 ) .
the lem is to ate a tem zed by a tor , q , of ion n , ith a ble ial rgy ion , e ( q ) .
his rgy ion ces a ann ion ver q , for ich the ity ity is
p ( q ) = z 123
ere ze rrn exp ( e ( q ) ) dq .
( a ure of one is med out , for
the aim of the ion is to ate the ion of ome ion , h ( q ) :
hhi = zrn
h ( q ) p ( q ) dq
ere 123 , 123 , .
, 123 are ned rom the ion , and are ach ted ing to the ann ion for q ( but are not , in ral , ent ) .
i ill rst ibe the cal ach to ing his lem , ich ers rom tic ror in the ing , and hen ibe the rid nte rlo hod , ich tes his ror by ing nly ome of the cal ves .
ext , i ent and ify a ion of his thm in ich ves are ade een ows of tes at the ing and end of a ory , her han een gle tes .
ons in ich his thm ill ave a her nce ity han the ard thm are hen ted , and an cal son is ven for ems of led ors .
lly , i uss two ons on the thm hat may be ful in ome ces .
123 the cal hod
in the cal ion hod , we uce a tum tor , p , ich , ike q , has ion n , and a ian ion , h ( q , p ) , hat tes oth ial and tic rgy :
h ( q , p ) = e ( q ) + 123
we hen eek to ple rom the ann ion hat h ces on the
ase ace , ( q , p ) , for ich the ity is
p ( q , p ) = z 123
h exp ( h ( q , p ) ) = p ( q ) p ( p )
ere zh rrn exp ( h ( q , p ) ) dq dp , and
p ( p ) = ( 123 ) n / 123 exp ( 123
his ple is ted by ing an dic kov ain hat has the ann ion for ( q , p ) as its ary ion .
ues of q rom ive tes of his kov ain , ose nal ion is hat of qua - ion ( 123 ) , are sed to ate hhi ing ion ( 123 ) .
his kov ain tes by ing cal ons ith tic
the cal ons ist of ing the tem for ome ned
iod in a ous ime , , ing ons ons :
ese ons ave h ant .
ore , the ume of a ion of ase ace ins ant as it ves ing to his ics ( les the - in nce , the cal ons ple ons of ant h
the tic ons low ons ith ent ues of h to be red .
hey ist of ing p ith a lue ked rom its ann ion ( ion ( 123 ) ) .
uch ons rly ave the ann ion of ( q , p ) ith ect to h ant .
the nce of ese tic ons ill lso lly be ugh to ure hat the kov ain is dic i . e .
hat the tem can ove to any int in ase ace .
it is lly ble hat the ies ted in the cal ran - ons be ong ugh hat hey ach ons ost ent of eir ing ons .
his ids the low ion , at the ate of a dom alk , hat uld ult if the ion of ion ere tly zed by
in ice , the ics ust be ted ith ome ite tep ize .
the rog hod is lly sed , ith the ing eps ing ted ome ned ber of mes , l , ith ome ied tep ize , :
123 ) = p ( )
123 e ( q ( ) )
q ( + ) = q ( ) + p ( +
p ( + ) = p ( +
123 e ( q ( + ) )
his zed ing ill ves ase ace ume tly .
ver , ith a ite , it oes not ave h tly ant .
his ill uce ome tic ror nto the ing .
123 the rid nte rlo thm
the tic ror of the cal hod is ted in the rid nte rlo thm ( 123 ) by ing the end - int of the ory und ith the rog hod to be ely a ate for the ext ate of the kov ain , to be ted or ted as in the lis nte rlo thm ( 123 ) .
nce or ion of the ate ate is sed on the unt , h , by ich h for the ate ate eds h for the ent ate .
the ity of nce , a ( h ) , is ven by
a ( h ) = min ( 123 , exp ( h ) )
hus ate tes ith wer h are ays ted , ile ose ith her h are ted ith ity exp ( h ) .
if the ate ate is ted , the new ate is the ame as the ent ate ( and is ted ain in the age of
the ity of his ure for ing a ple rom the ann tri - ion is ore ily een if we ine hat the ory for a cal ion is ted ing a lue for ose ign is sen at dom , ith ive and ive ues ing lly ely .
the rog hod ( ons ( 123 ) to ( 123 ) ) is ime - ble , so hat a ard ory , ith a ive , and a ard ory , ith the ing ive , are ses of ach her , a act cru - ial to the ion of the thm .
in act , ual ice is to ays use a ive , nce an ect ent to mly ing its ign is ced in any ase by the ion of the ion of p in the tic ons .
to how hat the ann ion ( ion ( 123 ) ) is ant der uch cal ons , it ces to how hat ese ons sfy the ion own as led nce hat the ity of a ion rom a to b ing is the ame as hat for a ion rom b to a , ven hat the art ate is ann ted .
to see hat led nce lds , der a all ion of ume v und the int a = ( qa , pa ) .
ose hat a ard ory rom a ads to the int b = ( qb , pb ) .
the her nts in the ion und a ill ead to a ion und b , ich ill lso ave ume v , nce the rog hod ves ase ace ume .
due to ime ity , a ard ory rom b ill ead to a .
the led nce ion ith ect to the ons und a and b can now be ten as
p ( qa , pa ) v 123
123 a ( h ( qb , pb ) h ( qa , pa ) )
= p ( qb , pb ) v 123
123 a ( h ( qa , pa ) h ( qb , pb ) )
the eft ide of the ove ion is the ity of ing rom the ion und a to the ion und b .
the rst tor is the ann ity for
ing in the ion und a at the art , the ond tor ( 123 123 ) is the ity of ing a ard ion for the ory , and the ird tor is the ity hat his ory ill be ted .
the ght ide ses the ity of ing rom the ion und b to the ion und a in ous ion .
the ity of ese two ies is een by ing rom ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
the led nce ion can be rly ied for the ase ere a ard ory rom a is sen .
the ann ion is lso ant ith ect to the tic ran - ons , ich ply ace p ith a lue sen rom its ann ion .
hus , if ( as we ect ) the kov ain is dic , it ill ave the ann dis - ion as its que ary ion .
123 an nce ure ing ows
the ard rid nte rlo thm can be zed to der a dow of tes at the end of the ory as ate ons for a cal ion , her han ust a gle end ate .
in der to ain led nce , a ble ove to his dow ust be red in ion to an ual - zed dow und the ent ate , ith the ion of the ent ate hin hat dow ing ned mly .
due to his ter ent , the ory may ave to be ted for ome ber of eps in the rse of its ary ion .
nce or ion of a ove een ows is sed on the tal ity of the tes hey ain .
ver dow is ted , a lar ate hin hat dow is hen ked ing to the ann ies .
his ure can tly ase the ity of ing a ove , as ill be sed in ion 123
rst , ugh , i ill ene the thm in ore
to gin , ues for the tal ber of eps in the ory , l , the ase tep ize , 123 , and the dow ize , w , are ted rom ome xed ion , ith 123 w l + 123
a ard or ard ion , , for the ory is hen sen , ith ual ies for = 123 and = 123 , and an set , k , for the ent ate hin the art dow is ted , ith k ( 123 , .
, w 123 ) , ach ble lue ing lly ely .
a rse ion of the ory is hen ted by ing the rog hod ith a tep ize of = 123 , ing ith the art ate , x ( 123 ) .
his is one for k ons , ing tes led x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( k ) .
the art ate is hen red , and the rog hod is ied ith a tep ize of = 123 for l k ons , ing tes x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( l k ) .
the ect dow at the ont of the ory , und the ent ate , is ned as the set r = ( x ( k ) , .
, x ( k + w 123 ) ) .
the ept dow at the far end of the ory is ned as a = ( x ( l k w + 123 ) , .
, x ( l k ) ) .
ese ows may lap .
the ree rgy for a dow is ned as ows :
f ( w ) = log xxw
the ree ies are sed to ide her the ext ate ill ome rom the ept dow or the ect dow .
ing the nce ion of ion ( 123 ) , the ept dow is ted ith ity a ( f ) ere f = f ( a ) f ( r ) ; ise we ain in the ect dow ( ich ins the ent ate ) .
ing ded on the dow w , a lar ate hin hat dow is hen ted ing to the ies
p ( x ) = exp ( h ( x ) + f ( w ) )
the ate ted mes the ext ate in the kov ain .
hen ing the zed thm , it is not ary to ave all the tes in the ept and ect ows .
one eed nly ave the art ate , so it can be red ter the sed ion of the ory has een ted , ong ith a gle ate rom the ept dow and a gle ate rom the ect dow , one or the her of ich ill ome the ext ate of the kov ain .
a be the ree rgy for the rst i tes hat ave een ted in the ept dow , and let c i a be a ate sen ing to the ann ies rom ong ese rst i tes .
ese les can be ted lly as new tes in the ept dow are ted .
to art , f 123 and c 123 a is ned .
hen we sit the i - th ate in the ept dow , ( qi , pi ) , we can ate
in ail , let f i
a = log ( cid : 123 ) exp ( h ( qi , pi ) ) + exp ( f 123 a = ( c 123
ith ity exp ( f 123
( qi , pi ) ith ity exp ( h ( qi , pi ) + f i
a + f i
nce all tes ave een ted , we ill ave f ( a ) = f w a ill be a ate ked rom a ing to the ann ies .
ous les , f i and c i r are ned for the ect dow .
nce all tes ave een een , a ion as to her to use the ept dow or the ect dow can ily be ade , and , in her ase , a ate ted rom the sen dow is ble .
a , and c w
hen w = 123 , the zed thm is ent to the ard rid nte rlo thm .
hen w = l + 123 the ure ces to ply ing a ate rom ose ere ong the ory in nce ith eir ann ies .
ome ion in the ion is hen ble .
123 ity of the zed thm
to ate the ity of the zed thm , we eed to how hat the led nce ion lds for the cal ons .
as l , w , and 123 are sen rom a xed ion , tly of the ent ate , we may ose to ard hem as xed , nce if led nce lds for ons ith any ues of ese ers , it ill old for a ure of uch ons .
it ill ove ary to age ver the ues ted for and k , ver .
led nce ill be ved ely for ons to a ate in the ept dow and for ose to a ate in the ect dow .
if the two ows lap , as hey ill if w > ( l + 123 ) / 123 , ere ill for ome irs of tes be the ity of ons of her ype .
if led nce lds for the two pes of ons lly , ver , it ill lso old for the ion .
to ove led nce for ons hin the ect dow , ote rst hat the set of ble ies ( for the ous ues of and k ) hat art at ate a and hat ude ate b in the ect dow is the ame as the set of ies hat art at b and ude a in the ect dow .
ere , a ory is ned as the set of tes ted , ong ith the ets of tes hat ake up the ept and ect ows .
in ail , if for the ory ing at a = xa ( 123 ) , ith ion a and dow set ka , we ave b = xa ( j ) hin the ect dow , hen the cal ory ill be ced by ing at b = xb ( 123 ) , ith ion b = a and dow set kb = ka + j , and a = xb ( j ) ill be in the ect
we can hus ove led nce ely for ach uch ory .
the ity of ing in a all ion of ume v und a , of hen ing ues for and k hat ate a lar ory for ich a ate in the ion of b is in the ect dow , of hen ing to ick a ate rom the ect dow , and of lly ing the ate in the ion of b as the ext ate , is as ows :
p ( qa , pa ) v
( 123 a ( f ( a ) f ( r ) ) ) exp ( h ( qb , pb ) + f ( r ) )
the ity of ing the ame ory ing rom the ion of b , and of hen ing up in the ion of a , is
p ( qb , pb ) v
( 123 a ( f ( a ) f ( r ) ) ) exp ( h ( qa , pa ) + f ( r ) )
ese are ily een to be ual pon ing rom ion ( 123 ) .
led nce for ons to a ate in the ept dow ows rly , ing the act hat the set of ble ies hat art at ate a and hat ude ate b in the ept dow is the ame as the set of ies hat art at b and ude a in the ept dow , ept hat in the ter ies the ept and ect ows are ged .
in ail , if for the ory ing at a = xa ( 123 ) , ith dow set ka and ion a , we ave b = xa ( j ) hin
the ept dow , aa , ile a is in the ect dow , ra , hen the ory ced by ing at b = xb ( 123 ) , ith dow set kb = l ka j and b = a , ill ead to a = xb ( j ) ing in the ept dow , ab , ile b is in the ect dow , rb .
ore , we ill ave aa = rb and ra = ab .
the ity of ing in a all ion of ume v und a , of hen ing ues for and k hat ate a lar ory for ich a ate in the ion of b is in the ept dow , of hen ing to ick a ate rom the ept dow , and of lly ing the ate in the ion of b as the ext ate , is as
p ( qa , pa ) v
a ( f ( aa ) f ( ra ) ) exp ( h ( qb , pb ) + f ( aa ) )
for the ity of ing the ame ory , but ith ept and ect ows ged , ing rom the ion of b , and of hen ing a ate in the ion of a , we ave
p ( qb , pb ) v
a ( f ( ab ) f ( rb ) ) exp ( h ( qa , pa ) + f ( ab ) )
ain , ese are een to be ual pon ing rom ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , ing hat aa = rb and ra = ab .
123 nce ity for the zed thm
two ons ere the use of ows ill ase the nce ity of the rid nte rlo thm are ted in ure 123
in the ory of ure 123 ( a ) , the ies of the tes in the ect dow , at the art of the ory , are all ely ual to the rgy of the ent ate , 123
ost of the tes in the ept dow , at the end of the ory , ave ies in the ity of h+ , uch ter han hat of the ent ate .
ver , one ate has a uch wer rgy , h .
if the ard rid nte rlo thm is ied in his ion , ith the end - int of the ory mly ked rom the ast w tes own , the ity of nce ill be ely 123 / w , nce ves to tes ith rgy h+ uld ost nly be ted , ile a ove to the one ate ith rgy h uld be ted .
in ast , if the zed thm is ied ith a dow of ize w , the
ove ill ays be ted .
the ree rgy of the ect dow ill be
f ( r ) log ( w exp ( 123 ) ) 123 log ( w )
ing h+ h , the ree rgy of the ept dow ill be
f ( a ) log ( ( w 123 ) exp ( h+ ) + exp ( h ) ) h
hus , if 123 h > log ( w ) , the ove ill be ted , and the lar ate sen hin the ept dow ill ost nly be the one ith rgy h .
ote hat it is ial to his ple hat a ate in the ept dow ave wer rgy han ose in the ect dow .
if his is not the ase , the nce ity is the ame as for the ard thm .
the ory of ure 123 ( b ) tes a ent , aps ore cal , sit - ion ere the use of ows lso ses the nce ity .
ere , oth ows ain ely ual ers of low and igh rgy tes .
ote hat the ent ate is ely to be one of the low rgy nes , nce it is
ith the ard thm , the end ate ght lly ell be one of igh rgy or one of low rgy .
in the mer ase , the ove uld ely be ted , ile in the ter , it uld ave a ood ity of ing ted .
the tal nce ity ill hus be und 123 / 123
if the zed thm is sed ith a dow ize rge red to the ime ale of rgy ons , ver , the ree rgy of oth the ept and ect ows ill be ely ual , and the nce ity ill be ear one .
the lar ate sen hin the ept dow ill ely be one ith low rgy .
ese les how hat the use of ows can be ial , but hey do not ate the ude of the net , nor her ere is any ent in the tic orm of the ime nts as tem ize ses .
eed , for xed ues of l , 123 , and w , the nce ity nes lly ith ing tem ize , as for the ard thm .
his ing our is due to the ree ies of the ows , and nce eir nce , ing ive ies hat ase in ion to tem ize .
123 nce for a tem of led ors
to ain ome ght nto the ree of net rom ing the zed thm , and nto its ing our , i ave ted it lly on ems of led ors .
ese ple ems are ant to del ore lex ems in ich the nts are not ely ent , but act nly kly .
the our of the ard rid nte rlo thm for ems of led ors has een sed in ail by edy and ton ( 123 ) .
the ial rgy ion for uch a tem is
in the ann ion ith ect to e , ach qi is ent , and dis - ted as a ian ith ero ean and ard ion 123 / i .
nce the
ion of the rid nte rlo thm is ant ith ect to sla - ons and ons of the tes , ese ems in act del the our of the thm as ied to any ate ian ion .
ote hat for the rog hod to be ble , ith the ror in h ing ded ven for ong ies , it is ary for the tep ize to be ess han 123 / max , ere max is the est of the i .
for ent ion of the her tes , the age gth of a ory in ous ime , tt , uld be in the ity of 123 / min .
in ing ese ems as a est bed , we ust be ear ing ich cts of the tem we ect to rry ver to tic ems , and ich ill not .
i ume ere hat the ate des of min and max and the ral ion of the i are own , and hat ese may be sed to ect ate ues for the tep ize and ory gth .
i ume hat eir act ues uld not be own in a tic tem eed , hey ill not be ely ned , nce the nts of the eal tem ill not be ely led .
to del his , the tep ize ( and nce the ory gth as ell ) was ied tly at dom , in der to oid lts hat end on ise ing of ese ers .
i ill lso ume hat we are ted in ems for ich the tio max / min is rge .
his tio is a ure of the ent lty of the lem , ing ( hly ) the ber of rog eps red to ate an ent ong - ion .
in the nts , the gth in ous ime of a ory was sen to be rge ugh for the nce ity to ave hed ium .
in a eal tem , ver , the ate ory gth ( tt 123 / min ) ght ell be uch ger han his .
nce ing any lar lue for tt uld be ary , i ave for the ost art ted the hms on the ion hat tt is ery rge .
the ost of a lar ion of dow ize and age tep ize was gly ken to be
c = 123 / ( ( 123 ) )
ere is the ity of a ove ing ted , and is the age tep ize ( all hat the ual tep zes sed ill be ght ons und his ver - age ) .
his ost ure is nal to the ber of rgy ent ons ded to ate a ven ber of ted ves of age gth tt , ded tt is uch ter han tw , the gth in ous ime of the ows .
ote hat his ost ure ces no lue on ons hin the ect dow , ugh ese bly ove ing at ast hat .
if tw is ble to tt , hen the ove ure uld not be ate , nce it res the ort ded in ing ose ons of the ory hat lie ore the ent ate and ter the new ate .
an ate ost in his ase uld be ( 123 + tw / tt ) / ( ( 123 ) ) .
i ume hat for a ven dow gth , tw , and a ven tem ize , n , the
lue of hat zes c can bly be und , and hat his mal lue of c is hus the ate ure of the ost of the thm for a lar dow gth .
if the ion ity has the nal orm
= f ( g ( n ) k )
hen one can how by ard ans hat his mum is hed at a lue of hat is ent of n .
the ing ies of the thm can hen be und by ing how ust ase as n ses in der to eep the ion ity ant .
ote hat we are ing ost as the ber of ons of the rgy ent , not the ime red for ese ons .
ion ime per ion ill ary ith tem ize in a ner ich nds on the ion , but ich ill lly add an nal tor of at ast n to the tal ion ime as a ion of tem ize .
i ave ted the ard and the zed hms on ems for ich n = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123
in ach ase , the i ere ted mly rom the nge 123 to 123 , ith a orm ion for log ( ) .
ugh i ume hat nts ith uch ler uld lso be ent in a eal tem , uch ere not lly ded in the ion , in der to ave ime .
eir ion uld ave had a ble ect on the nce ity , nce the acy of the rog hod is ery igh hen 123 / is uch ter han the tep ize .
an age ory gth of tt = 123 123 ( 123 / max ) was sed .
ral of the ons ere one ith tt = 123 as ell , and the lts med hat the nce ity had eed hed ium at tt = 123
for a ven age tep ize , , and for a ven dow ize , w , the ber of eps in the ire ory , l , was set so hat tt = ( lw 123 ) .
( his ion nts for the age ber of eps ore and ter the ent and new tes . ) the ory was hen ted ith ese ues of l and w and ith a lue of 123 mly ted rom the ion hin 23% of the ven .
uns ere one of the ard thm , for ich w = 123 , and of the gen - zed thm ith a dow gth of tw = 123 , for ich the ber of tes in the dow was w = tw / .
ome uns ith tw = 123 and tw = 123 ere one as ell , ith lts hat ere lar to but not ite as ood as ose for tw = 123 .
ues for of .
, 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , .
. , in ric eps of 123 / 123 ere sed .
in ach run , 123 ies ere ted ing rom ion and tum tes ked rom the ann dis - ion , tly for ach ory .
the ion of ted ves , , was ken to be an ate of the ion ity , .
the ard ror for his ate is 123 at = 123 , ing to 123 at = 123 or = 123
ate , bc , for the ost ows rom ion ( 123 ) .
the lts are own in ure 123 , ich ots the ted ion ity and ent ost for ach lue of n and for ous ues of , for oth the ard thm and the zed thm ith tw = 123 .
hen the est
lue of is sed in ach ase , the ost of the zed thm is hly alf hat of the ard thm , ith ome ion hat the age of the zed thm may be ter for the ger n .
gly , the ion ity ith the mal is tly wer for the zed thm han for ard thm .
in ing his ata her , we can rst are ith the tic lts of ( 123 ) .
hey ive the ing ion for the ion ity of the ard thm ied to a tem of led ors ( ted rom eir ion
i 123 ( itt ) / 123
ing hat the all dom ion in , and nce tt , is ugh to ize the ses in his sum , and ing the act hat 123 , we get hat , for the ent bed ere , the ion
ere = n 3pi 123
123 ( x ) dx = 123 ity uld be
ere = n 3pi 123
i 123 123
the ion ity hus has the orm of ion ( 123 ) .
as tem ize ses , uld be led as n 123 / 123 in der to eep the ion ity ant , and the ost ill row as n 123 / 123
in ure 123 , is ted nst n 123 for all uns of the ard thm .
as ted , ars to be a ion of n 123 , as the ead in the ata nts in ble to the ard ror .
( ote hat ere , and in ure 123 , the ard ror is tly ger for ler ues of , due to the mic ale . ) son ith the act ons of ion ( 123 ) ( not own in the ure ) ows a ood t , ept for a ght ure for rge ues of the ion ate .
we can ize hat the ion ity of the zed thm for a ven dow gth ill lso be a ion of n 123
if his is the ase , the ost for the zed thm ill lso ale as n 123 / 123 , ugh ere uld , as een ove , be an ent in the ant tor ver the ard thm .
to est his sis , ure 123 lso ows ted nst n 123 for all uns of the zed thm ith tw = 123 .
a ncy of the ves for the ger n to lie low ose for the ler n is ent , ing one to ect his sis .
the ata for the zed thm is ter t by the ive sis hat the ion ity is a ion of n 123 / 123 123
his is een in ure 123
for son , the ata for the ard thm is lso ted der his ion , and it is ear hat in his ase the t is bad .
if his sis is rue , hen the tep ize for the zed thm uld be led as n 123 / 123 to ain a ant ion ate , and the ost ill con - tly row ith tem ize as n 123 / 123 , an ent ver the n 123 / 123 ing
of the ard thm .
his ult ust be ded as ive , ver .
it ems ble hat for ery rge n the dow gth , tw , ght ave to ase at ome ate in der to ain ood ing our .
his uld ely ect the ost , nce tw ame ble to tt .
our uld lso bly end on the act ion of the i .
a cal sis is hus ded to ain a ter ing of the nce of the zed thm .
it is ear , ver , hat at the ery ast , it can ove nce by a ant
123 ons on the thm
two ons on the zed thm bed ere are rth ing .
rst , hen a ove to the ept dow is ted , it is lid to ply re - ain at the ent ate , her han ing a new ate rom the ect dow ing to the ann ies .
his ows rom the act hat led nce was own ove to old tly for the ept and ect ons .
led nce hus ues to old if all ect ons are ted .
ith his ion , the ead of ing tes is hat ced .
ypi - lly , ver , his ead is all red to the ost of ing the ent of the rgy , and its ion may not be rth ing up the nal plo - ion ded by the ect ons .
ote hat it is in any ase ary to sit all the tes in the ect dow , in der to ute its ree rgy .
a ond ion may be ful hen the eal tep ize is not own a ori .
in uch ses , we may ave to use tep zes ted at dom rom a rly oad ion .
ies ted ith a tep ize hat is too rge ill ult in rge ges in h and are ely to be ted .
to ave ion , we can ate uch ies rly , ing hen - ver a gle rog tep ges h by an unt , ive or ive , ose ude is ter han ome old .
the ate hed ter his rge nge in h is not ded .
uch ted ies ill ave ler han mal ept and / or ect ows , but ion of the oof of ity in ion 123 ows hat hey may dly be ted the ame way as mal ies .
the ept dow for a ted ory may , in act , be ull , in ich ase the ove is ted .
( the ect dow ill ays ain at ast the ent ate . ) his ion is ble to the ard rid nte rlo thm , ere the dow ize is one .
in his ase , all ted ies are ted , ith the ent ate ing ged .
i ank vid kay for ful nts .
his ork was ted by the ral ces and ing rch cil of ada , and by the rio
ion ogy rch tre .
