ov th pa 12 ye th st of ma le ha gr fr th ef of a ha of co en - gi ex wh co co le to pl ga , an a el of st th la ig co co , to a br di th ha pr fu st - co th of le pr , ha de le al th ar ro us in co sy - te fo sp re , co vi , an a va of ot ta , an ha sp of an in in da mi to di hi re in th gr vo of on da .
th do pr a br an pe vi of th di th ha em as ma le , th fu qu it ad , it re to ot sc an so , an wh it mi be he .
ke : ma le
12 de qu
a sc el is be de by th ce qu it st .
th el of ma le se to an th qu
ho ca we bu co sy th au im wi ex , an wh ar th fu la th go al le pr ?
th qu co a br ra of le ta , su as ho to de au mo ro th le to na fr th ow ex , ho to da mi hi me re to le wh fu pa wi re be to wh tr , an ho to bu se en th au cu to th us in .
to be mo pr , we sa th a ma le wi re to a pa - ul ta t , pe me p , an ty of ex e , if th sy re im it pe p at ta t , fo ex e .
de on ho we sp t , p , an e , th le ta mi al be ca by na su as da mi , au di , da up , pr by
ma le is a na ou of th in of co sc an st .
we mi sa th de qu of co sc is ho ca we bu ma th so pr , an wh pr ar in tr / in ? th qu th la de st is wh ca be in fr da pl a se of mo as , wi wh re ? th de qu fo ma le bu on bo , bu it is a di qu .
wh co sc ha fo pr on ho to ma pr co , ma le fo on th qu of ho to ge co to pr th ( fr ex pl so in st ) .
wh st - ti ha fo pr on wh co ca be in fr da , ma le in ad qu ab wh co ar an al ca be us to mo ef ca , st , in , re an me th da , ho mu le su ca be or in a la sy , an qu of co tr .
a th el wh de qu is cl re to ma le is th st of hu an an le in ps , ne , an re el .
th qu of ho co ca le an ho an le mo pr ha hi in an .
to da , ho , th in ma le ha ga fr st of hu le ar mu we th th it ha ga fr st an co sc , du pr to th we st of ou un of hu le .
ne , th sy be st of ma an hu le is gr , wi ma le al su as te di le no be su as ex fo ne si ob in le an .
ov th co ye it is re to ex th sy be st of hu le an ma le to gr su , as th ar cl ne in th la of co sc qu .
ot el , fr bi to ec to co th al ha a co in in th qu of ho sy ca au ad or op to th en , an ma le wi li ha an in ex of id wi th el ov th co ye .
fo ex , ec is in in qu su as ho di co of se - in in ma fo a sy ( ma ) th le pr le to pa - op al fo th gr co go .
an co th , es ad co th , is in in qu su as ho a se - co sy ca im it co st th ex .
in , th ma mo fo ad in th ot el ar so di fr th co us in ma le , su si po fo cr - fe of mo an th .
th fo se di th st of th ar of ma le , a sa of su ap -
ti , an a sa of op re qu .
12 st of ma le
he we de so of th pr in ma le , as we as op re qu .
12 ap su
on me of pr in ma le is it si re - wo ap , su as th li be .
al we no ta ma of th ap fo gr , it is wo no th as la as 12 th we al no co ap of ma le .
sp re .
cu av co sy fo sp re al us ma le in on fa or an to tr th sy to re sp .
th re is si : th sp re ac is gr if on tr th sy , th if on at to pr it by ha .
in fa , ma co sp re sy in tw di le ph : on be th so is sh ( tr th ge sy in a sp - in fa ) , an a se ph af th us pu th so ( to ac gr ac by tr in a
co vi .
ma cu vi sy , fr fa re sy , to sy th au - ma cl mi im of ce , ar de us ma le , ag be th re sy ar mo ac th ha - cr pr .
on ma - sc ap of co vi tr us ma le is it us by th us po of to au so le co ha ad .
ov 12 of ha ma in th us is so au - ma , us ha an so tr to ve hi ac us ma le ov a ve la da se .
bi - su .
a va of go ef to de an tr di ou no us ma - ch le .
fo ex , th ro pr in re - ti co of ad re to em ro ac we pe , an th us of ma le so to le th pr of ty ad so th it ca de an pa of sy an th ge - ic di .
cu wo in ad in a ri se of ad da , su as re pu of ov - th - co me to in th in ow in th sy , fu in th ne fo au le me gi th ev mo co da se .
ro co .
ma le me ha be su us in a nu of ro sy .
fo ex , se re ha de th us of ma le to ac co st fo st he ig an he ae .
th re da - sp co - ti in a ro dr au fo ov 12 mi in th de wa wo by a ro th us ma le to re it ab to de di ob ( tr it fr se - co da co of te se in in th di , an se la up cl ) .
ac em sc .
ma da - in sc no ma us of ma le me to ai in th sc di pr .
ma le is be us to le mo of ge ex in th ce fr hi - th da , to di un as ob
fr ma da co by th sl sk su , an to ch th co pa of br ac th in di co st of pe in fm sc .
ma le me ar re th pr of ma da - in em sc , an ma of th sc no ho wo on ma le as pa of th el co .
12 pl of ma le wi co sc
gi th sa of ap , wh ca we in in ge ab th fu ro of ma le in th el of co ap ? on wa to th ab th is to im th sp of al so ap , an to re th ab ap su a ni wi th sp wh ma le ha a sp ro to pl .
in pa , ma le me ar al th be me av fo de pa ty of so , in ap wh :
th ap is to co fo pe to ma de th al .
fo ex , so fo se - ba pe ta , su as sp re an co vi , fa in th ca .
al of us ca ea la wh ph co a pi of ou mo , bu no of us ca wr do an al to pe th ta .
he ma le is th so de me of ch si be it is re ea to co la tr da , an re in to tr wr do a su al .
th ap re th th so cu to it op en af it is el .
on ex of th is sp re sy th cu to th us wh pu th so .
ma le he pr th me fo ad .
so ap th cu to us ar gr ra - e . g . , bo th cu to yo pu pr - en , or em re th cu to yo pa de of sp .
th ma le ni wi th so wo is gr ra .
vi th wa , ma le me pl a ke ro in th wo of co sc , wi an im an gr ni .
wh th wi re so ap wh ma le ma ne be us ( e . g . , to wr ma mu pr ) , th ni wh it wi be us is gr ra as ap gr in co , as th de gr fo se - cu so , as co ga ac to mo da , an as we de in ef ma le al .
be it ob ro as a me fo so de , ma le is al li to he re ou vi of co sc mo ge .
by sh th qu fr ho to pr co to ho to al th to pr th , ma le em th de of se - mo sy th se - di an se - re , an on ap th mo th us , an th ta ad of th st st of da ow th th pr ra th si pr it .
si , ma le wi he re th el of st , by br a co pe to th fo , an ra is su as ne - en le .
of co bo co sc an st wi al he sh ma le as th pr an pr ne id to ch th wa we vi
12 so cu re qu
as th ab ap su , su pr ha al be ma in th de of ma - ch le al an th un th .
fo ex , we no ha a va of al fo su le of cl an re fu th is , fo le so in un
fu f : x y gi a se of la tr ex ( ( ci : 12 ) xi , yi ( ci : 12 ) ) of in xi an ou yi = f ( xi ) .
fo ex , in tr an im re pr xi ma be a si im , an yi th la of th ob in th im .
al fr su ve ma , to ba cl , to ge al - ri ma be us to es th fu f fr th da .
we al ha a us bo of th th he ch ho ac on sh ex to le th fu f , de on th nu of la tr ex av , as ab th na of th da ( e . g . , wh th ex ar dr in ) , an pr of th le al su as th co of th se of hy it co .
of co th ar ma ot ty of le pr an as al an th - ri , in un cl ( e . g . , cl ge ba on th ti se ex pa ) , an de ( e . g . , nd un pa of em ro ad ) , re le ( e . g . , le to pi go ch mo , wh th on tr da is th na wi / lo ou of th ga af ma ma mo ) , da mo ( e . g . , nd a sm se of fa th ca be co to re a se of hi - di br im ) , et .
th el is mo fo in ma di , ex a va of ty of le ta , an
de a va of un th .
he is a sa of cu re qu :
ca un da be he fo su le ? su le in es so fu f : x y gi a se of la tr ex ( ( ci : 12 ) xi , yi ( ci : 12 ) ) .
we co dr re th co of su le if we co ma us of un da as we ( e . g . , im th ar un ) .
ar th si wh un da ca be gu to im th ex le ac ? in , th an is ye , fo se sp ca of le pr th sa ad as .
th in pr pr su as le to cl we pa or sp .
ex of ne al an ne su of pr wh un da is pr us is an ac ar of cu re .
ho ca we tr wh is le fo on ta to im le in ot re ta ? .
no th ab fo of su le in le a si fu f .
in ma pr pr we mi li to le a fa of re fu ( e . g . , a di fu fo pa in ne yo ho , an on fo pa in to ho ) .
al we ex th di fu to be so di in th tw ca , we al ex so co .
me su as hi ba ap pr on wa to ta th pr , by as th le pa of th ny fu an th to fu sh si pr pr , bu al th da fr ea ho to ov th pr as ap .
th si be mo su wh th tr be fu is mo co e . g . . , a ro le bo a ne - st fu an a fu to ch co ac sh be ab to le be by ta ad of th lo re be th tw ty of le in .
wh is th re be di le al , an wh sh be us wh ? .
ma di le al ha be pr an ev ex in di ap - pl do .
on th of re is to de a th un of th re am th al , an of wh it is ap to us ea .
fo ex , tw al fo su le , lo re an th na ba cl , be di on ma da se , bu ca be pr to be eq wh ap to ce ty of da se ( i . e . , wh th mo as of na ba ar sa , an as th nu of tr ex ap - pr in ) .
th un su , fo ex , th na ba sh be pr if da is sp bu on is co of th mo as .
mo ge , th th
ch of le al , th co pr , an th re st an we re a ma re to .
fo le th ac co th ow tr da , wh is th be st ? im a mo ro ch wi th ta of le to nd it ma sl an in th ho , an im th it is al to pr du th da , by vi th sl fr di vi of it ch , an mo th sl to di lo wi di li co .
wh is th mo ef tr st fo ac co ne da as it le pr ? a se ex of th pr in dr te wh on wi to le th dr ef wh mi th ex of pa to po un si ef .
th is a pa of a mo br re th in le sy th ta mo ac co ov th le se , ra th pa us da co by ot .
to wh de ca we ha bo da pr an th be of da mi ? th ar ma be - ci us of ma le , su as tr a me di sy on da fr al ho in th wo , wh ar no be pu la be of pr co .
al at rs it mi se th we mu ch be pr an th be of da mi , in fa we mi be ab to ha bo in so ca .
fo ex , ra th fo ho to sa pr an pa ar th pa re to a ce da re , we mi in pa ar a le al to th ho , al ea to ru it un ce re , th pa it al to th ne ho .
th is an ac re ar , bu bo on pa st wo on da di an on mo re cr ap .
12 . 12 lo te re qu
th ab re qu ar al be en pu by re in th el .
it is al in to co lo te re qu .
be ar so ad re to wh i fe ho th po to si ch th fa of ma le ov th co de .
ca we bu ne - en le ? th va ma of ma le wo to da in ru - ni pr on pa da se , th pu th le as an us th re .
in co , le in hu an ot an is an on pr in wh th ag le ma di ca , of in a se cu , an us th di le fa an ca in a hi sy fa .
wh no bu ma le th le in th sa cu wa , be in co ra th ha at so pl ? fo ex , a ro in th sa of bu fo mo or ye sh le a va of ca , st wi si ta ( e . g . , ho to re ob in th da en of th ha ) , to mo co pr th bu on pr le ( e . g . , wh to lo rs to nd th mi re co ) .
si , a pr to le to re th we mi le a gr se of ca be wi si ab - it su as le to re na of pe an pl , an ex to ex co re in sp ac mu se an we pa .
a ke re is he is se - su le an co an ap gr cu .
ca ma le th an al he ex hu le ? re , th an al fr ma le ha be fo re to un as of hu an an le .
fo ex , re le al an th pr su
we th ne ac of do ne in an du re - ba le .
an ma - ch le al fo di sp re of na oc im pr su we th ty of vi fe fo in th ea vi co of an .
ho , th - or of an le in co th ha no ye be co in ma le , su as th ro of mo , fe , ur , fo , an le ov mu ti sc .
th is a ri op fo cr fe he , an op to de a ge th of le pr co an as we as ma , an po im fo im st fo te st .
ca we de pr la co ma le pr ? ca a ne ge - er of co pr la di su wr pr th le ? in ma cu ma le ap , st ma le al ar in wi ha - co so in a na ap pr .
wh no de a ne co pr la - gu th su wr pr in wh so su ar ha - co wh ot ar sp as to be le .
su a pr la co al th pr to de th in an ou of ea to be le su , th se a le al fr th pr pr by th pr la .
in ne re is ar he , su as de pr la co fo de wh tr ex sh be gi to ea to be le su , wh , an wi wh sa ag ar ch to pr
wi co pe me wi ma le ? gi th in us of ma le - in fo st - of - th - ar co vi , co sp re , an ot fo of co pe , ca we de a ge th of pe gr in le pr ? on in - tr op he th in of mu se mo ( e . g . , vi , so , to ) to pr a se in wh se - su le co be ap to pr on se ex - en fr th ot .
al re in de ps an ed ha ob th le ca be mo ef wh pe ar pr mu in mo , an wo on co - tr me fr ma le su th sa .
12 et qu
ab ar so of th pr th wi sh th el of ma le ov th co de .
wh it is im to pr th fu , fu re in ma le wi al ce pr mo po co ca .
th , in tu , wi le on oc to et qu ab wh an wh to ap th re te .
fo ex , co th to te co en di un si ef of ne dr , if it we ap to da de al do vi an me re in th co al wi al pu of dr .
re ca in wh ne dr we re fo a nu of un pa de mi we ha be am by al av ma le me .
ho , ap th ma le te wo al ha im ou pe pr , as ou me re an dr pu wo ha ha to be ca an an .
is th so we wi as a so to do ? pe , i be th ar go ar on bo si , an th as a so we ne to di an de th qu in an op an in fa , th co to a de .
re qu oc ab co da fo se an la en , or fo ma pu .
li al po te , ma le wi ra it sh of qu ab wh it sh be us fo pa pu .
al th an to ea of
th qu wi ha a te co , in so ca th qu wi al ha a so po co re al of us to be en in de it an .
12 wh to le mo
to nd ou mo ab ma le , se th to co an jo in th el , in :
in co on ma le ( ic ) .
co on ne in pr sy ( ni ) .
an co on le th ( co ) .
jo of ma le re ( jm ) .
th to jo is fr av on at ww . jm . or .
ma le .
pu by sp .
ma of th id pr he ha ar fr di wi ot .
i wo li to ac ma st di wi st an fa of th ma le de at ca me un , fo he to sh my ow vi of th di of ma le .
i wo al li to sp th av bl , st fi , ca gu , mi jo , an an ng fo he co on ea dr of th do .
it wo be im to do ou wo wi th ge su of fu .
i am pa gr
fo re su fr da , ns , ni , th ke fo , an lo ma co .
