mo co mo of su le re on on la tr ex , an ig th po ro of un da .
th is tr bo fo co sc mo of le su as so ne an ac - r an , et al .
, an fo ma le an da mi al su as de tr le an in lo pr se , e . g . , mi .
in th pa we co th po ro of un da in su le .
we pr an al an ex re de th un da ca si im le ac in ce pr pr .
we th id th ab pr st th en th al to su ut th un da , an pr th un da wi bo le ac fo pr in th cl .
th pr cl we id in pr wh th fe de th ex ar re su fo cl th ex a no we ma pr in th pa .
th pr cl in ma na le pr fa by hu , su as le a se le ov no ph in na la , an le to re ob fr mu se in .
we ar th mo of hu an an le sh co mo st th po ro of un da , an th ma na le pr t th cl we id .
a su le pr : le to cl we pa
to il th ro of un da in su le , co th pr of le to cl pa of hy fr th wo wi we , gi la tr da co of in we pa al wi th co cl fi .
we ha be st th pr as pa of ou la re go of au ex in fr th we cr et al .
pr jo sm
hi ! i te co co an ad st , in
in my sp ti i wo on a nu of re pr , in ma le fo we
ac le fo ro co
fi : tr ex of a fa ho pa . " th ta of cl a we pa ca be ac by co ju th wo on th we pa .
al , th pa ca be cl us on th wo on hy th po to th we pa e . g . , my ad " pr sm " .
wh ex ar de by su re su fe , un da ca be us to bo th ac fo su le .
fo ex , on sp ta we ha co is tr a sy to cl we pa in ca su as st ho pa , " fa ho pa , " ho pa of an ac co , "
th we pa cl pr ca be fo as a ty su le pr .
by su le pr " we me th th is so se x of in , an th is so ta fu f : x ! y to be le , gi a se of tr ex of th fo fh f xi .
in ou ca , x is th se of al we pa , y is th se of po cl e . g . , st " fa " ne " , an th fu f to be le in th fu th ma an ar pa x to it co cl .
fo th it la tr ex , xi is a pa we pa , an f xi is th co cl fo xi , pr by an ex te .
as di in cr et al .
, a nu of su le al ca be ap to th pr of le to cl we pa .
on co ap is to rs re ea we pa by a la fe ve , wh ea po wo in th la co to a fe , an th va of th fe is th nu of ti th wo oc in th we pa .
th ba of wo " re ob ig in ab th se in wh wo oc .
ho , th re of we pa as la fe ve en us to ap st su le al fo cl of fe ve .
fo ex , if we tr a na ba cl mi on a se of ap , la we pa , we ac ac of ap in cl ne we pa in th ca me ab cr et al . , .
se l of la tr ex
se u of un ex
le hy - ba cl h fr l
le fu - te cl f fr l
al h to la p po an n ne ex fr u
al f to la p po an n ne ex fr u
ad th se - la ex to l
ta : a co al , fo tr tw cl an us un da to bo th
wh we ca ac re ac af tr on th of ha la we pa , in th pa we ar in in th qu of ho un da ca be us .
in fa , th is a cr qu in ou we pa cl ta , be it is co to ha la th of we pa , an be it is ve ea to ob hu of mi of un pa fr th we .
ho ca we us un we pa to mo ac le to cl fu pa ? th an ca be se by rs ob th th we co an in ki of re in ab ea we pa , as sh in gu .
as sh in th gu , we co cl th we pa ei by co th wo on th pa it as su in th pa ab , or we co cl th pa by ig th wo on th pa an in co th wo on hy th po to th pa .
in ma ca , th wo on th hy wi be su to cl th ex , an th wo on th pa it wi al be su .
in su ca , we wi sa th tw se of fe th hy wo , an th we pa wo ar re su to cl th ex .
we wi se be th in ge if th in x fo so su le ta ca be fa in se of re su fe , th un da ca be us to bo th ac of cl tr wi li la da .
le wi re su fe
ho ca we us un da to bo th le ac fo ou we cl pr ?
pa - ba cl hy - ba cl co cl
ta : er ra in pe fo cl we pa as co ho pa .
th to ro sh er wh tr on on th la ex .
bo ro sh er wh co - tr , us bo la an un ex .
th ri co sh th cl ac wh th tw cl ar pr eq vo on th na cl .
th re re he ar th av of ve in ru of th al wi di ra st ex .
th ke id is th we wi tr tw in cl ra th on .
on cl wi us on th wo on th we pa , an th ot cl wi us on th wo on th hy .
we be by tr bo cl us wh la tr ex ar av .
pr th wi re in tw cl th ar im , bu be th ra .
no we us th un da as fo : ea cl is al to ex th un da an to pi it mo co pr po an ne ex , an ad th to th se of la ex .
in ot wo , ea cl is al to au th po of la ex .
bo cl ar no re on th au se of la ex , an th pr is re as lo as de .
ta su th co - tr al .
wh sh th co - tr al le to mo ac cl ? th in is th if th hy cl nd an ea cl " hy in th un da e . g . , on th is qu si to on of th la ex on wh it wa tr , th we pa th it po to wi be ad to th la po of ex as we .
of co ju be th hy ha to be ea to cl do no me th we pa wi be ea cl by th ot cl .
if no , th th hy cl ha ad us tr in to im th ot cl .
si , th we pa cl ca ad ex th ar ea fo it to cl , bu th pr us in to im th ac of th hy cl .
in ex , we ha fo th th co al do im cl ac in on ex bl an mi , , su wh le to cl we pa .
in ta , we tr a cl to la we pa as ho pa of ac co .
ex we pr ju la ex , an ap un pa dr fr co sc de we si .
on ea it of co - tr , ea cl wa al to ad ne po an ne ne ex to th po of la ex .
af it of th co al , th ac of th co cl wa , co to wh on th la da wa us .
in th ca , th im of co wa to re th er by be th a fa of tw .
gi th ex ev th co ca be us in at le on ca , it is us to ch th ge pr se in wh th ki of al ca be fr un da .
he we de a pr se in wh we ca pr th un da wi be of he .
to de th ge pr se th ca th es st of ou we cl ex , re th ea we de a su le pr as on wh we ha so se of in x , a ta fu f : x ! y , an la ex fh f xi .
in th co se , we as su a su le pr in wh th in ar dr fr x ac to so xe po un pr di d .
we fu as th x = x x; th is , th in in x ca be fa in tw pa e . g , .
th hy wo an th we pa wo .
we re al th x an x ea co in su to cl th ex .
in ot wo , we re th th ex so fu g : x ! y an so fu g : x ! y su th fo al x x; gx = gx = f x .
no th le is no ex to kn f , g or g in ad .
we si re th it be po to ex f in te of x an in te of x i . e . , th x an x bo be su to cl x ac to f .
if th ab co on x an x ar sa , th we wi sa th x an x ar re su to cl x wi re to f .
in bl an mi we sh th if f : x ! y is pa le fr no la da , x an x ar re su to cl x wi re to f , an if xb an xb ar co in gi f x , th f ca be pa le gi a we in cl pl on un da .
wh th me is th if th la da ar su to tr a be th ra in cl , if x an x ar di in fo ea ta va of f , an if f ca be le ac gi an ar nu of la ex , th f ca be le to si ac gi ju th we in cl an an ar nu of un ex .
th si is th th pr th un ex ca su fo la ex , un th co of th th .
in bl an mi we al sh th un da is of po va un th mo ge se in wh x an x ar no in di .
th we sh th if th tr da is no - fr , th un x an x ar de re e . g . , on va of x is al pa wi th sa x , th un da ca be of us .
ot le ta wi re su fe
gi th su of co as a me fo us un da wh le to cl we pa , an gi th fo ch of th cl of pr fo wh co ca be of us , it is in to as wh ot na le pr al th ap .
he we su a nu of ta :
le to cl no ph in se cl .
in ri an jo , an ap si to co wa ap to th pr of le a se le ov no ph in en .
in th pa , on ta wa to le to cl no ph as po or ne ex of lo e . g . , sa se " is po , bl " is ne .
in th ca ea ex , x , is a se su as we ar lo in lo pi . " th fa of x in tw re su fe se is do as fo : x is th no ph it e . g . , pi " in th ab se , an x is th li co in wh th no ph ap e . g . , we ar lo in lo | " .
no th in mo ca it is po to de wh th no ph is a lo gi ei x or x .
no al th th va of x an x ar di fa in i . e . , wi mi se th sa x as ab , bu wi a di x .
st wi a li of ju kn no ph , th sy us an al si to co to le do of ad lo .
le to se wo se .
in ya , , an ap si to co wa ap to le to di wo se e . g . , to de wh th wo pl " re to a ma pl or to a bo pl .
he , ea in x co to a co co th wo in qu si to th ri an jo ex ab .
ho , th fa of x is in mo th tw co , wi ea wo se as a ca co , an th al se to no ma di in co .
bu it is qu si , an th pr co be at us a co ap .
le to re ph in sp .
in de sa an ba , , an ap to fu un le wa ap to a pr wi ne re su fe .
in th ca , th ta is to le to cl sp ph , ba on bo th au si an th vi si wa th sp li .
he ea in x co to th fu da , x co to th au si , an x co to th vi si .
ag , we ma ro as th ei of x or x is su to de th ph , an th ca tr tw cl on li la da , an le th tr ea ot ov th un da .
in fa , de sa an ba us no la da at al , in pe a ki of cl in wh th au si mu pr th vi , an vi ve .
th sy wa ab to le cl co to th sp ph in th da .
ob re in mu da .
co th pr of le to re ob in mu da , su as th co st of au , vi , an ot se in a pe re .
a ve si ta is to le to cl te se , ba on th on st of vi , au , an cl ca te .
in th la ca , co th pr of le to sp te se in wh bo ye ap .
he we co co ea in x to be a sn co th au , vi an te at a pa ti .
he x co be th au , x th vi , an x th te .
no th in so ca we mi se ea " ex of vi a fu fa of ye , or an ea au hi vo wi ba
no , or an ea te th wo ye .
th , we co ex co to pr a us ap to us un da to tr cl .
to my kn , th ex ha no
di an co
we ha de a cl of su le pr fo wh un da ca be pr to im le ac .
th ke de fe of th pr cl ar th th in x ca be fa in tw or mo co x , x : : : , wh ar re su to cl th ex , an th co co , so th a pa xi do no al co - oc wi th sa xj . .
we ha de th co al th us un da fo su pr , an ha pr ex an th re sh th in th pr un da ca in be us to im ac fo su le .
th co to hu an an le ap to be a ri ar fo fu st .
hu an ot an ha a ri se of se in , wh in re su da fo ma ta .
fo ex , sm , vi , so ca al be us in tr to cl wh fo is ne , an in ma ca th da fr ju on of th ch is su .
de sa an ba su wi a co - li al fo le to cl ph fr vi an au si to th ob by hu is al su .
pe pe re le th we su on la da to ac su le fo va cl ta .
th to my co on th wo , av bl , fo ma in di an id .
se th , ro jo , an mc , an ka ni ha al co id an su al th wa .
th wo ha be su by da un re co
