we co th pr of se - su le to ex - tr ca ( e . g . , ac el , at ) an re ( e . g . , pl ( at , sp ) ) fr we pa , st wi a ha of la tr ex of ea ca or re , pl hu of mi of un we do - um .
se - su tr us on a fe la ex is ty un be th le ta is un .
th pa pu th th th mu gr ac ca be ac by fu co th le ta , by co th se - su tr of ma ex fo di ca an re .
we ch se wa in wh th tr of ca an re ex ca be co , an pr ex - im re de si im ac - ra as a re .
ca an su de i . 12 ( ar in ) : le ac - si i . 12 ( ar in ) : na la
se - su le , bo le , in ex , we mi
ma le ap ha be sh to be ve us fo in ex fr te , in ap - pr th le to ex va ca of en ( e . g . , at , ci ) an re ( e . g . , co - sp ) fr st an un te ( 12 , 12 ) .
ho , su tr of ac en an re - ti ex is co , re a su nu of la tr ex fo ea ty of en an re - ti to be ex .
be of th , ma re ha ex se - su le me th us on a sm nu of la ex of th pr to be ex , al wi a la vo of un te ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
wh su se - su le me ar pr , th of ex un ac be th li nu of in la ex is in to re co th le pr .
fi 12 : we sh th si im in ac re fr co th tr of in ex fo ma in ca an re ( b ) , co wi th si bu mu mo di ta of le a si in ex ( a ) .
pe to ma di or ha co of al or pa of th wo fo pe or cl us is gr wi fe pr th co ar no ma or di fo pr or co ad an th co be th no an th fu ci on th rs pa .
to co ot , to re , to po on se or to re to li , re pr sp pe an / or a fe .
ws , fe 12 , 12 , ne yo ci , ne yo , us .
co 12 ac 12 - 12 - 12 - 12 - 12 / 12 / 12 . . . $1 .
th th ex in th pa is th we ca ac mu hi ac in se - su le by co - pl th si tr of ma ex , as su - ge in fi 12
th in he is th th un - st se - su le ta ca be ma ea by ad ne co th ar fr co th tr of ma ex .
we pr an ap in wh th in to th se - su le is an on de a se of ta ca an re to be le , a ha of se ex - am fo ea , an a se of co th co th va ca an re ( e . g . , pe an sp ar mu ex ) .
we sh th gi th in an mi of un do , a se - su le pr ca ac ve si ac im - me by co th tr of ex fo do of ca an re .
we sh th ou ge ap - pr im ac wh tr bo co - pa ex th ex in fr fr te ( e . g . , th pa ma of ar as an ex fo th ca ci ) an wr wh ex in - ti fr se - st do ( e . g . , th wr <t cl " ct " >a < / td fr so sp ur ) .
ba on re re he , we hy th ev gr ac im wi be po by fo a mo de ne of in - co le ta .
to - wa th en , we ex tw mo sp po .
fi , we id th ge ty of co am ta fu th ca be co to fo a de ne of co le pr .
se , we ex th im of co th tr of ex th us fr te wi ex th le se - st we pa , ba on th in th th di te sh ma in er .
we be th th no co of th wo ar as fo : ou wo is th rs to co th si se - su tr of ca an re ex .
it is al th rs to co th tr of mu wr - pe in by us mu ex an ty ch re .
fi , th wo is th rs to co th tr ( ra th th na ou ) of fr - te ex - tr an se - st we pa wr in by as th th ma in er , a me th we sh pr hi ac th us ei me al .
mo ge , th pa ad la - sc co - pl tr as a st to si im ac in se - su le , id th di ty of co , an ex ev th ut .
re wo
in th pa , we fo on a bo me fo se - su le .
bo ap st wi a sm nu of la se ex an it - ti gr th se of la ex us hi - co la fr th cu mo .
su ap ha sh pr in ap su as we pa cl ( 12 ) , na en cl ( 12 ) , pa ( 12 ) , an ma tr ( 12 ) .
bo ap to in ex ca yi im re ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
ho , af ma it , ac ty de be er - ro in la ac , a pr th ha be ca se dr ( 12 ) .
to re er in in un se - su le , se me ha be co .
co th le of ca ex by us po - ti ex of on ca as ne ex fo ot - er ha be sh to he li th de in ac ( 12 , 12 ) .
co - tr me ex co in pa of th fe sp to av la er ( 12 ) .
ot no - bo te ha us th in
th di ex me sh ma in er to mo co pr fr mu ex - tr to im ex ac ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
ty ch re ar us av en re - er ca he av in la ( 12 , 12 ) .
ou wo bu on th di id an us th to co th si - ne bo tr of ma ca an re ex in ma di wa .
se ma le fr ha be pr th pe vi of co on un da ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
wh si in sp , ou wo di in th we co us ma di ki of co to le ma di fu si .
in mu le , su tr of re fu - ti to ca yi hi ac th le th se ( 12 , 12 ) .
se - su mu le ha us a pr th en re mo to ha si pa ( 12 ) .
th me re th re ta sh si re ou wo ex ad wa in wh fu ca be re , an ma no as - su re si of re ac th di fu be le .
co tr
ce to th wo is th id of co th se - su le of mu fu to co ou le pr .
ou me it tr cl in a se - su ma .
it st by tr cl us a sm am of la da , th us th cl - er to la un da .
th mo co ne la ar ad to th po of da us to tr th mo ( we sa th th ne la ex ar pr ) , an th pr re .
th it tr is co by co - st th re al ca an pr .
12 ty of co
we ha id th ge ty of co : 12
ou co : fo tw fu fa : x ya an fb : x yb , if we kn so co on va ya an yb fo an in x , we ca re fa an fb to sa th co .
fo ex , if fa an fb ar bo - va fu an fa ( x ) fb ( x ) , we co co fb ( x ) to ha va 12 wh fa ( x ) = 12
co co : fo tw fu f1 : x1 y1 an f1 : x1 x1 y1 , we ma ha a co on va y1 an y1 pa fo a gi x1 an an x1
we ca re f1 an f1 to sa th co .
fo ex , f1 co ty ch va rs ar of f1 , so th x1 , x1 , f1 ( x1 , x1 ) f1 ( x1 ) .
mu - vi - ag co : fo a fu f : x y , if x ca be pa in tw vi wh we wr x = ( ci : 12 ) x1 , x1 ( ci : 12 ) an we as th bo x1 an x1 ca pr y , th we ca le f1 : x1 y an f1 : x1 y an co th to ag .
fo ex , y co be a se of po ca fo a we pa , x1 co re th wo in a pa , an x1 co re wo in hy po to th pa ( th ex wa us fo th co - tr se ( 12 ) ) .
12 co co us in th pa in th wo , th fu th we le ar ca an re ex , wh de if a no ph or pa
of no ph is an in of so ca or re ( ge re to as a pr in th re of th pa ) .
th ge ty of co di ab ar us to le th fu in th sp wa :
mu ex : th in to ou le ha a li of pa of pr wh ar mu ex .
th re ar us to en an ou co ov in : mu ex pr ca bo be sa by th sa in x .
re ar ty ch : we co th le - in of re ex wi th le of ca ex us ty ch .
fo ex , th ar - me of th co re ar de to be of th ca co an ec - se .
th is an ex of a co co .
un an se - st te fe : no ph on th we ap in tw ty of co : fr te co an se - st co .
fo ex , pi oc on th we wi a di - tr of fr te co su as ma of ar , an it al ap wi a di of se - st co su as th ht ta fo a li it at a pa ur .
we as th ei of th di is su to cl a no ph , an th th tw di ar co in gi th cl la of th no ph .
we th tr tw no ph cl , on us ea ty of co di , an re th th tw cl ag on th la fo ea gi no ph .
th is an ex of a mu - vi co .
in th se , we pr al wi wh we in - ti th fe of im se - su le fo in ex wi co .
th ge pr - le ad by th al is to le ex to au po th pr of a sp on wi hi - co in , st fr a sm se of se in fo ea pr an a la co of we pa .
we fo on ex fa th ar st mu - pl ti , wh we ca as pr us co st .
we do no re st to re - wo en : th pr of sy re an di of st th ca re to mu en ar le fo fu wo .
we fo ou co of pr on un re ( ca ) an bi re ( on wi tw ar , re to as re in th pa ) .
th sp in to ou al ar : a la te co - pu an an in on wi pr ca , re - la , mu - ex re be sa - ar pr , an se in fo al pr .
ea re - ti ha an or pa of ar ty , wh sp ca th re in ar mu be me - be of .
so ad in is on us by fr - te ex me : se ex pa fo ca - go , an a ag fo ea ca in wh in - st mu be pr no , co no , or ca be ei ( e . g . , in of ci ar pr no ) .
th rs al , co pa le ( cp ) , is a bo al th le mu - ex an ty - ch co to le hi - pr co - te pa th ar ac ex of pr
al 12 : co pa le ( cp ) in : an on o , an te co c ou : tr in / co pa fo
fo i = 12 , 12 ,
fo pr p o do
ex ne ca in / co pa us re pr fi ca th vi co ra ca in / pa pr to ca
in .
th se , co se ( cs ) , is a se ex al th le wr to ex in - st fr se - st do an ex th sa tw ty of co co .
th tw al - ri se to de th ou an co co te ca im th ac of bo tr of mu ty of ex .
th na al , me - bo le ( mb ) , co th tr of su - or ex al li cp an cs us 12 co pa le
th co pa le ( cp ) al le to ex ca an re in fr un te , an is su in al 12
cp le co - te pa th ar hi - pr ex fo ea pr ( e . g . , ar an ot so rm an ar sc a go fo ar ) an us th to gr a se of hi - pr pr in .
no ph th ll in th ar an ar bl of pa in se in th te co ar sa to co - oc wi th pa .
at th st of ex , cp in se of pr - mo in an pa wi th se in an pa pr as in .
in ea it , cp ex th se of pr in an pa fo ea pr - ca wh ob mu ex an ty ch co - st .
th is ac by lt ou ca th co - oc wi in or pa fr mu ex - cl cl an by re ar of ca re - ti to be ca fo th re ca .
ea st of cp is di in mo de be : 12 . 12 ex ca to st ea it , cp nd ne ca in by us th pa pr in th la it to ex - tr no ph th co - oc wi th pa in th te co ( in th rs it , th se pa ar us ) .
to ke th si of th se ma , fo ea pr , cp se th 12 ca th oc wi th mo pa .
an an pr is us to ex - tr ca pa us re pr in .
we us pa - of - sp - ta he to li ex to in th ap to be no ph an pa th ar li to be in .
th ar de ne : ca in : in th bl of a ca pa , it us pa - of - sp
cp lo fo a no ph .
ta to se no ph an ig de .
pr no ph co pr or co - ti ar se us a re of th le al ( 12 ) .
ca in ar re to ob th pr / co no sp of th ca .
ca pa : wh a pr ca in is fo , cp ex th pr wo as a ca - di pa if th ar ve fo by a se of ad , pr , or de an op - al pr by no ( e . g . , be ac by ar or co ac by ar ) or no an ad - ti fo by a se of ad , pr , or de ( e . g . , fo ce of ar ) .
cp ex - tr th wo fo th in as a ca pa if th ar ve fo op by a no ph ( e . g . , ar br th ho ru re ) , or ve fo by a pr ( e . g . , ar sa th ) .
re in : if a pr re pa ( e . g . , ar is ma of ar ) is fo , a ca re in is ex if bo pl ar va no ph ( ac to ou pa - of - sp - ta he ) , an if th ob th pr / co sp fo
re pa : if bo ar fr a pr re in ar fo in a se th th in - te se of wo is ex as a ca re pa if it co no mo th ve to , ha a co wo , an ha an un wo .
12 . 12 fi ca us co ca in an pa ar lt to en mu ex an ty ch co .
a ca - da in is re un th nu of ti it co - oc wi a pr pa is at le th ti mo th th nu of ti it co - oc wi pa fr mu ex pr .
th so co is mu mo to of th in no in we te as we as am no ph th a ha co .
ca pa ar lt in th sa ma us pr
12 . 12 ra ca ne , fo ea pr cp ra ca in us th nu of pr pa th th co - oc wi so th ca th oc wi mo pa ar ra hi .
ca pa ar ra us an es - ti of th pr of ea pa p :
p re ( p ) =
ii co ( i , p )
wh i is th se of pr in fo th pr un co , co ( i , p ) is th nu of ti in - st i co - oc wi pa p in th te co , an co ( p ) is th nu of ti pa p oc in th co -
12 . 12 pr ca fo ea pr , cp th pr at mo 12 in - st an 12 pa ac to th ra fr th pr st .
in an pa ar on pr if th co - oc wi at le tw pr pa or in - st , re .
re in ar on pr
al 12 : co se ( cs ) in : an on o , an te co c ou : tr in / wr fo ea pr fo i = 12 , 12 ,
fo pr p o do
be ca ex se co to :
qu fo do co re le wr fo ea do re ex ne ca us wr
fi wr th ex ca th ra ca in pr to ca
if th ar ar ca fo th sp ca ( th is , th co - oc wi at le on pr pa fo th ca , an ar no pr in of a mu - al ex ca ) .
12 . 12 la - sc im cp wa de to al ec le of ma pr - ic si fr a la co of se ex - tr fr we te .
ga th st ne fr th te co is th mo ex pa of th al .
th st ne co fr tw ty of qu .
fi , in th ex st , cp ha a li of pr in an pa , an ne to kn wh pa an in - st co - oc wi th in an pa .
se - on , in th lt an ra st , cp ne to kn wh ca pa oc wi wh pr in - st , an wh ca in oc wi wh pr pa .
cp ga th st fr a pr - pr te co wh sp ho ma ti ea no ph oc wi ea ca pa in th co - pu , an al ho ma ti ea pa of no ph oc wi ea re pa .
th pr ca be do qu us us th ma fr ( 12 ) .
in ea it of cp , cp ga co st fr th da se by sc th th pr da in tw pa : on fo ex ca an on fo co - in co - oc .
cp ca pe on pa in ab 12 mi fr a da se de fr 12 mi we pa ( se se 12 . 12 fo de on th co ) .
12 . 12 un pa le in ou ex , we us a va of cp ca un - co pa le ( up ) wh re th co co fr cp .
ca ar no lt us mu - tu ex wi ot pr , an re ar ar no ty ch .
up is eq to in se - su le of ea ex .
12 co se
cp is an ex of a se - su te pa le - in al th is ai by co .
to de ho co ca im a di , al im ex - tr al we co se ( 12 ) , a wr in -
. ht " cl " sh " >a pa / a> <b ac , au , bm , bu , ca , ch , ch , ch , da , da , do , ea , fo , . . .
< / a> <a hr " au / ar / ac , au , bm , bu , ca , ch , ch , do , fo , gm , ho , hy , in , is , . . .
<l cl " fr ar " > <h hr " # " > bu , ch , ch , do , fo , gm , is , je , li , ma , me , ni , po , sc , . . .
ta 12 : ex of wr co by cs fo va we pa gi th se : fo , ni , to .
in th ta , ar is a pl fo ex in .
ti al , an ho we ca ad co co on to of an ex im th we tr as a bl bo .
fi , we wi de th ex al , an th we wi de ho we ad co co .
se is a se - ex sy th ac in el - me ( se ) of so ta se s an au nd ot pr el of s in se - st do su as we pa by qu th we us th se .
th al im in se co pa - sp ex - tr ru , or wr , th ar in of th hu - ma la an ma la of th we pa .
se ca ex se of ca in as we as bi re - ti in .
ev ca wr is de by ch - ac st , wh sp th le co an ri co - te ne fo an en to be ex fr a pa .
re in wr al ar de us an in co th se th tw ar of th in .
th co st ar se to be ma - lo co - te th br at le on oc of ev se on a pa .
ta 12 sh a fe ex of su wr fo ca .
an in is ex by a wr if it is fo an in th do wi le an ri co - te id to th of th wr .
wh gi la se of se , se ca be co to su th se so nu of ti ( 12 ) .
su sa a su of th se an us th su as a qu to a se en , wh is ne be us al ex in on qu wo ty no yi an ma re .
se do no ha a me fo ex mu - ex or ty - ch co .
wr fo ea pr ar le in in se .
ou al - ri , co se ( cs ) , ad th co on to of se .
cs is su in al 12
ea it of bo , we in se us th re pr in .
se re a li of ne ca in an do th th we ex fr .
cs lt ou an do th ex a ca - di in th is a me of a mu ex pr .
ad , cs on co ca re in if th ar ar ca in fo th re ca ty .
th fo of co sh lt ou ca wh a su se of se ha - pe to oc on a pa bu th pa do no in fa co - ta a va li of pr in .
th sh al lt ou ca wh in of a pr th is mo ge th th on be le ar li ( e . g . , if a lo li of lo of va ty is pr on a pa , bu we ar le so sp ty of lo ) .
af lt , cs ra al ca in by th nu of un wr th ex th , an pr th to 12 in th we ex by at
al 12 : me - bo le ( mb ) in : an on o , a se of ex e ou : tr in fo ea pr fo i = 12 , 12 ,
fo pr p o do fo ex e e do
ex ne ca fo p us e wi re pr in
fi ca th vi mu - ex or pr ca th we ex by al
le tw wr .
to de wi we pa fr th sa do th re th sa li , on on pa fr a do - ma is co in ra ca .
wi li co to do , na an ot te - ge el th re ma ti ca dr sk th re .
in ou ex be , cs re to th al de he , an se re to cs wi th l - te st : se do no lt ou wr th ex - tr ca th vi mu - ex re , an se do no en re in ty ch .
12 me - bo le
me - bo le ( mb ) co th tr of mu ex te us a mu - vi co th re th to ag .
mb is su in al - ri 12
mb is ba on th in th th er ma by di ex te sh be in .
in th pa , th su al us wi mb ar cs an cp .
wh us cs an cp wi mb , th su al do no pr in on th ow .
in , th sk th pr st an re ev ab ea ca to mb , an mb is re fo pr in .
mb us a si co me : mb pr an in th ha be re by bo te wh ob th mu - ex an ty - ch co sp in
ex ev
we de ex to ex th ma qu : fi , do co le us mu - ex an
ty - ch co im th pe of cp re to un , in le us up ? se - on , do mu - ex an ty - ch co im - pr th pe of cs re to th un me of se ? fi , do mb ac be pe - ma th cp an cs by co th ou wi a mu - vi co ?
to an th qu , we ra cp , up , cs , se , an mb wi cp an cs as su ex - tr fo 12 it of le .
we th co th di in pe be se pa of me to se th ee of co .
di co to pr wo is di fo a nu - be of re , in th la of av of im - ta an th la of a la sh we co .
ho , ou ev di te th us of th co ap th we ar ad in th pa .
we be th th un ba ar re an co la - sc un ap .
12 ex me
th on us in al ex co ca an re fr tw ma do : co an sp .
ex ca we ad to pr ne ev to th do - re ca ( e . g . , ho fo ec - to ac , po , an sc fo at an co an bo fo sp ) an al to pr wi va fo ex ( e . g . , sh , em ) .
ta 12 li al of th ca in th le co , an ta 12 li th re in th le co .
ca we in wi 12 se in an 12 se pa .
th se in - st we sp by a hu , an th se pa fo ea ca we de fr th ge pa of he ( 12 ) .
re we in wi 12 se in - st , 12 se ne in ( ty in va - ti of po se ex ) , an no se pa ( si it is no ob ho to ge go se pa fr re na ) .
mo pr we de as mu ex wi on an ( ex of ex in sp an un ki an pr an co an pr ) .
12 . 12 co fo cp th te co us by cp wa fr a 12 - mi - pa we cr .
we pa th ht , lt ou no - en pa us a st - wo - ra th , th lt ou we sp an ad co us a ba wo li .
th pa we th se in se , to , an ta wi pa - of - sp us th op pa .
fi , we lt th se to el th th we li to be no an no us fo le ( e . g . , se wi a ve , wi an lo wo , wi to ma wo th we al ca le ) .
th yi a co of ro 12 mi se .
as di in se 12 . 12 , we pr th se to cr a da se of no ph an co pa co - oc co .
to ma th si of th da se , we lt ou al no ph an co th on oc on in th co .
th yi a da se th co 12 mi un co pa fo ca , 12 mi un no ph , 12 mi un pa of
no ph th co - oc to , an 12 mi un co pa fo re .
12 . 12 pa fo se in ou ex wi cs an se , we us an im pr by th or au of se .
se wa co to su th ex pr 12 ti fo ca an 12 ti fo re to mi th re hi sp of re .
se do up to 12 we pa fo ea se qu us re fr th go se en .
th , th co fo se wa th we as in by go .
th mi co le fo a wr wa se to 12 , wh me th ea pa of a wr ne to be at le 12 ch lo .
12 . 12 ge ex pr wh co tw al , we ra ea al fo 12 it of bo , an th as th in pr by th al .
to ev th pr - ci of al in pr by an al on a pe - pr ba , we sa 12 in fr th se of pr in fo ea pr , po to th sa , an su th in to me tu fo la .
th ga an es of ho ac al of th in we an me th de to wh a pa - ti me av se dr .
we al co al at ma le of re .
fo ea pr , we on co th rs k in pr by ea al , wh k wa th mi nu of in pr fo th pr be th tw al .
we re to th me of co as th mi re me in th re be .
we sa 12 in fr ea of th tw se of in , an al su th to me tu .
wh sa of 12 in do no pr ti co - de in fo in es of pr fo a si pr , th ar su fo te fo th ee in wh we ar in .
cp ca re ex th pr ca of an in , bu li of it on th we of us ar ca co - ve , so cs ca re ex th pr ca of an in .
be of th , ou ev ig ca , an pr al in to th ev in lo ca .
12 . 12 me tu la th va es of pr re fo ou ev - ua yi 12 un in .
we su ea of th in to me tu fo la an ha th di in la ea in .
me tu ha be sh to be an in an fa me fo ob la fo la ta ( 12 ) .
to es th ac of th la pr by th pr , we sa 12 in at ra , an ma ju th ac of th la .
we fo th 12 ou of th 12 we co la us th ma vo .
th fo er - ro we : a fa po wi en th la as an ac ( th la ig th se er ) , an th fa ne : in as a pr - al , lo se as fu , an th re in - st co ( bh , ri ) .
th su th th la ma be bi to fa ne - ti , wh in tu su th ou pr es in th re of th pa ma be pe .
pr in ( # )
cp up cs se mb
cp up cs se mb
ta 12 : pr ( % ) an co of pr in fo ea ca us cp , up , cs , se , an
pr in ( # )
cp up cs se mb
cp up cs se mb
ta 12 : pr ( % ) an co of pr in fo ea re us cp , up , cs , se , an mb .
12 . 12 su on ma se di ty of ma fr ou ev ar po on at ht : / / rt . ml . cm . ed / ws :
se fo al pr .
al in pr by mb , cp , up , cs ,
al te pa pr by pa le in th
mb , cp , an up ex .
br kn ba in xm fo of al pr - mo in an ca in fr th ru of mb , cp , an cs , wi pa an ur th ex ea in .
al ju ob fr me tu .
an ex sc fr a me tu ta .
te us to cr th me tu ta ,
wh ma be of ge us .
12 mu ex an ty ch
to ex th ee of co pr us mu - ex an ty - ch co , we co co - pl an un me fo le co pa - te fo fr te : cp : th al as de in se 12 .
up : th me is an un ve of cp it do no co pr us mu - ex co - st or ty ch .
re in ar ar no lt us th ca an ca in -
st an pa ar no lt ou ba on vi - la of mu ex .
th co / pr no sp of ar ar us to lt ou im -
we al co co an un me fo le wr to ex li of in fr se - st we pa : cs : th al as de in se 12 .
se : th me us th im of se pr by th au of se .
as in th up me , it do no co th le of pr us mu - ex co or ty ch .
ta 12 gi es of th pr of pr in - st fo ea ca fo ea al , as we as th nu of pr in fo ea ca af 12 it - at .
th av ro av ac al pr fo wh in we pr .
th we av is an es of th in - le pr ac al pr - ca ob by we th pr fo ea pr by th nu of in pr fo th pr .
ta - bl 12 gi th in fo ea re , as we .
ac al ca an re , cp ha hi av pr - si th up , an cs ha hi av pr th se .
th re su th co us ty ch an mu ex si re th er ra of th le ex .
an me of co wh al pe th be is to us th si te , wh is a no - pa
cp vs .
up cs vs .
se mb vs .
cp mb vs
12 12 vs .
12 12 vs .
12 12 vs
12 12 vs .
12 12 vs .
12 12 vs
ta 12 : va pa of me co ba on th pr of al pr fo ea pr ( al pr ) an th pr of th in pr cu o at th mi re ou of th pa fo ea pr ( mi re ) .
wi re ho ma pr ha su pr fo ea me , an th p - va ac to a si te is gi .
al re - su ar st si at th 12 le ex fo cs vs .
se at mi re .
fi 12 : ex of ex fa .
th ge - ti of so we gi in th se on al ot fa we di by cp .
va sh fo pr an co fo so - wa ar a su of th fu se of pr va .
hy te .
th te st ne to co , fo ex - am , cp wi up , is ob by co th nu of pr fo wh cp pe be th up , an vi ve , ig ti .
th te gr ha pr wh on on me pr in : we pr th me wh ex so in ra th no fo su pr .
ta 12 co cp vs .
up an cs vs .
se fo th pr of al pr in fo ea pr , as we as th mi re sa di ab .
cp pe st si be th up fo bo me of sa .
cs is si be th se wi re to th pr of al pr , bu is no si be wh th re to th mi re fo ea pr .
th re co th co yi si hi ac ac al pr th us in , un le .
th re fo cs vs .
se su th co pr cs fr pr so in in bu wi so lo in re .
fi 12 gi so ex of th ty of in ex in ou ex .
th in se ex pr - vi sp th so is a pr an an ec - no th re of th in in th gu wa ex by cp .
12 mu ex te
ta 12 an 12 al gi es of th pr of pr - mo in fo ea pr fo mb af 12 it - ti .
ac bo re an ca , mb ha th hi pr of pr in ou of al of th al -
go co , wh in th ad th mu - vi - ag co re in fu av of se - ma dr .
ta 12 gi si te re fo co mb vs .
cp an mb vs .
cs , wh al us to ju wh or no mb im ov it su al .
al si te sh st si di - fe : mb is su to bo cp an cs wh co bo th pr of al pr in as we as th pr of pr in at th mi re of ei me .
th su th co cp an cs wi a mu - vi co co th as - su in er yi mo ac le th ei me us al .
th re pr he de th ad mo
co im th ac of ou le ex .
on of th bi ch in ap bo le - in al is de wh to st th bo - pi pr .
id , an al wo be ab to re th bo of a cl se .
in th re , th re fo th co ca fo mb ar pa co .
mb pr 12 in of co wi an es pr of 12 .
cs pr 12 in wi an es pr of 12 .
wi co , co pe - fo po , dr in a mo ge lo ca .
th ca fo wh th co al st ha th mo di ( e . g . , pr , sp , tr , ve ) te to be co no .
we ex th a mo co hi of co no wo be co th ca an yi be ac .
th co al ge ha hi ac fo re , bu su fr sp .
sp - me su be th sp ca pe - fo po , re in ba ty ch .
st - it an co dr to th mo ge re of st an co - op .
th la tw ca ca be im by ad th ab to in ne ex us th kn th th ar fu re : pa th ex mu ca fo th sa ci co be lt ou us th kn .
ou ex in ve re fo wh no in - st we pr by an al : co - at , at , co - to , sp , an at - te .
th re sh th so re - la ar no ea to ex us th ex me us in th pa .
ho , ma of th re co be in fr in pr in ou cu wo .
we pl to in le to in su re .
we ha pr me of co th se - su le of ca an re in ex - tr an de em th co fo - st th pr of se dr as wi bo - st le me .
th em ev le us to ad la - sc co tr as a st to si - ic im ac in se - su le .
so is : pr ty , ec se pr : it , ex , ad ph , mi ou , au , ka co : in , sa , mi , ib , wi , sy is : ma , sp te te : co pa te : le mi te : wo se te : ya , ro , so , wh so , re so , wa ac th wo is su in pa by da , go , a ya ! fe to an ca , an th br re ag cn an ca .
we al gr ac - ed ja ca fo ma av hi co of we pa , ya ! fo us of th m1 co cl , an th an re fo th co .
