re , wi a se - ba pl th ro ag co ch wh ac it is to pe , us th st - re su wh po , an fa ba on th pl su wh ne .
wh fo to pl , it ap an ex - ba me to fo a ne st - re ru to co th ne si an ot si to it .
wi ex , th ag be in re as it le co ac ne st - re ru th el th ne fo pl in si su si .
th th - ag ar is de , an re ar pr de it ab to re ti fo a si mo ro fr mi to un a se .
in an mo
mu at ha
re on re ar fo ro ag th co se th en an co ap re to th se st wi bo ti ( e . g . , ( br , 12 , ag an ch , 12 , ro , 12 ) ) .
su ar of ad ov mo tr op - lo se - ba pl sy be th ca re mo qu to ch to th en , an be th ca op mo ro in wo th ar di to mo in ad .
se - ba pl ar , on th ot ha , of th ad of mo ge - pu ( if sl ) pr so me wh pr th fl to de wi a mo di se of un go an si .
th pa co th qu of ho to co th be of re an se - ba ar co au ag .
we de th th - ag ar , wh in bo a re co an a se - ba pl co .
th fu de pr of th th - ag is th it re wh it ca , pl wh it mu , an le by au it re co wh it is fo to pl .
wh us to co a la mo ro , th th - ag in si ca le to re it re
ti fo ne ta fr se mi to le th a
th re re he is pa of ou la ef ar , an bu on ea wo de ( bl an mi , 12 ) .
we be th in or to be in su , a le ro wi ha to in se ty of le :
12 it mu be in co at pr
th ef of it ac in th wo .
q it mu be
12 it mu be in re , by re th ti re fo it to ma ra ch to ch ac co wi th ab pr an it go .
th fe of
im it su .
th pa fo on th se of th ty of le .
we de ho th th - ag in th sc of si fo wh it ca qu ma ra wh it is fo to pl fo a si ou th cu sc of it re co .
ba le me pr ru th re pr th sa ac as re by th sl pl , in ex th si in wh th sa pl ra wo ap .
ho , th le ru in th de ac im fr th in se da in a si in st - - wi co ex th ro go , av
re wo
th ha be a gr de of re wo on ar fo ro co wh co se th en an op in bo ti ( e . g . , ( br , 12 , sc , 12 , ag an ch , 12 ) ) , th th ty of wo ha no di ad is of le .
se ar sy ( se , 12 ) ap ex - ba le to ac pl ta fo a si ha - ey sy , an la ro ( la an ro , 12 ) ha be ap pr in a re ha - ey ro sy .
wh th re sh ou go of de sy th ar
to co an ou
th un ar va si in th fo of th kn be le , un re , an re re ti .
su ha pr an in ap to ac ro co st , in hi dy sy ( su , 12 ) , an po ha de a co sy wh ( po , 12 ) .
in ad to wo on le su ro co st , th ha be mu re in in ro le mo ge , in wo co mo of ac ( ch , et al . , 12 , zr an mo , 12 ) , an wo on be
th wo re he is al so re to re id fo co lo - le re sy fr hi - le sp ( e . g . , ( ro , 12 ) ) .
pa , su co tr in de of ac an go in ef co st , us tr si to th ac by ex - ba le in th th - ag .
th ma di ex - ba le us in th th - ag , is th fo th th - ag co tr is in fo by th wo ac en by th ag , an ma be in wi ot le me wh im th ag mo of it ac .
th ag , so th
th ne se of th pa de th th - ag in gr de .
th su se pr an ex of it us in co a si mo ro , th le me fo ac ne ef of ca an ru le on sy re ti .
th fi se su so of th le of th wo , in fe an bu in th cu de of th ar .
ru , an ti da sh
th th - ag ar
th go of co
th de of th th - ag ar is pr ad of re an se - ba sy .
re sy of th ad of qu re .
se - ba pl of th ad of br sc fo ha a mo di ra of un wo .
th th - ag ar em bo , an us le to in au it re co wh fo to pl .
in ad , th ar ma wi us of ca an to av ne re of re ac be .
th pr ch of th th - ag ar :
e it co
re wh ac
pe .
th ag ru in a ti lo in wh it re up it se in , ch a co ac , be ex it , th re th
e it re wh it ca , an pl wh it mu .
it mu ch an ac , th sy co a se of st - re co it re co .
if on of th ru ap to th cu se in , th th co ac is ta .
if no ru ap , to de an
it ac a ne st - re ru .
th ne ru re th ac wh th pl ha re , in th sa si ( i . e . , th wo st fo wh th sa pl ju wo ap ) , bu ca be in mu mo ef .
le is ac by an ex - ba ( mi , et al , 12 ) ) , an pr a de - dr in co in an eq of th pl kn l ev be
th de on se
ma as lo as it ex re va .
be of wh ac to pe ne , de di or in on ob se da .
th ar ma a ne of ex fo ev be of th ag , an de be on wh th su ce .
th ca of be si im th re ti of th ag by el re of be in th fa of un or ir se in .
in th th - ag ,
e it de wh go to at to , ba on th pe wo st , a pr se of go ac an sa co , an gi pr am go .
12 ob . wo . - p ' ch .
+ - - - - - - - - k - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
fi 12 - l : da pl in a th - ag
th ag pr ch
in st of ag : a th - ag is de by a fr st wh sl , su , su , et .
de th ag be , or in st .
th tw mo si sl of th ag ar ch . ac , wh pe an ob . wo , wh de th ag cu pe of it wo .
as in in fi 12 - l th ag ma in it ch . ac ei di fr it ob . wo , or al fr it cu pl .
it pl is in tu de fr it ob . wo an at . to . go .
th at . to . go de th go to ac , an is co as th hi pr of it ac . go , wh ar th in fr th ob . wo .
is cu at
ag go : go ar sp
to th ag by de co un wh th ar ac , sa , an at to .
fo ex , an ag ma be gi a go re . ba wh is de to be ac wh it pe it ba le to be le th 12 , be sa wh th ba ch is lo , an wh is at to wh it is ac an th ( hi pr ) go av . on . ob
ca po : th ba op of th th - ag is to re in a va fo it ch . ac sl .
ea sl of th ag ty ha on or mo at pr fo ob a va up de .
th ty ac ot sl , ba to sl of th ob . wo .
wh so sl va is su va is ca ( st ) in th co sl , al wi an ex ju it va in te of ot sl va , wh ar in tu ju in te of ot , le ev to va of in fe in th ob . wo , wh ar th in by di ac th ro se .
va re ca fo as lo as th ex re va .
th , th ag ac . go an ch . ac ma re ca fo ma cy , de ir ch in se in .
th po of al ca va , de im wh ex be in , an la re up de , as th th ag be in it in se , wi
co po : th th - ag
is co by
ex th fo lo :
se an up re fo al ea se fe of ob . wo , an de an ca va fo za se fe .
de up th cu ch . ac 12
ex th ch . ac
wh th ch . ac sl is ac ( du th de po of th ab cy ) , th fo st ar at in se un on su : 12
re th ca va of th sl ( if av ) 12
in a va ba on th av st -
se th fi st of th ag pl ( in a
pl if ne )
se th de ac ( e . g . , wa ) se po : ea pr se in ( e . g . , an ar of in so da ) is st in so sl of th ag ob . wo .
hi le fe su as ed in th so ar , re , re wi , et . , ar ob . wo , an ar in up de fr th lo - le fe .
th de - ma po of th ag dr up th en ra of lo to hi le se fe as ne .
in or to de wi a va of se pr of va co , th th - ag ty of pr se th - wh it ea se , an th wh it ea se fe ar re au du ea cy th th ag ma lo , so th de ca be of th ag ar re wh po .
in co , la se fe ar si de du ea cy .
re on if th ag qu th co sl du so su cy .
th di be ea an la re fe pr a si fo of at wh al ke th ov of co ne se da du ea cy to a mi .
le po : wh th ag is fo to pl in or to ob a va fo it ch , it ex - ba ge ro to ac a ne st - re ru to co th si .
th de of th ro ar de in gr de in th ne se .
th ef of th le po in ex th sc of th se of st - en by th sy in it wo .
th ty of pr
ex an re
th us of
th se de
to se th la
ar to de a si pr to co a he 12 mo ro ga ca .
in pa , we il ho go an ac ar pr to th ro wi no in st - se ac by co pl , an ho it in ac st - re ru th co it ro ac .
th ro se us in th ex
ul so mo on it ha , a ro so on
th th - ag t is im
so an le
an le me .
sy ca th ( mi , et al . , 12 ) ,
on to of a ge
12 de de of th m . od he 12 ro us he is
in ( li , et al . , 12 ) .
it he , an a ba vo se .
by ro it ha an he so it is ab to ob ar of so re th me ec di ve ro an .
th ra so re ar in ( on de ) to lo ed in th so ar , as we as re , an pr of re su as re wi , di , di , an id .
th pr se op us in th ba vo le , so , wh me so ra sw . wr . ro , wh ob an ar of so re by ro th wr fr le to ri .
of th se fe , so is ea se , an th ot ar la se .
th wr so po di
in ba , wh
th ro ac he
fo 12 in ) , ba . 12 ( mo ba 12 ( tu to th cl so in fr of th ro ) , an me . th . ob ( ob se ad so sw wh th cl so re in fr of th ro is a ga ca ) .
th . ob re to th cl so re in fr of th ro , as de by th se pr
th th - ag ha be te by gi it di se of in go , le it to co ou di se of st - re ru ex di be .
in th si ex pr he , th ag is gi
th so se
12 go . cl : ap di ob .
th go is be 12 an 12 in , in an ob at it is sa wh so is le th 12 in , an at
12 go . fu : ba of fr cl ob .
th is ac wh so is be 12 an 12 in , sa wh so is gr th 12 in , an at to wh it is ac .
ne so re co to a ga ca .
th is ac wh th is an ob in fr of th ro wh is un , sa wh th ob id is kn , an at to go . fu ar in .
in or to il th op of th th - ag , co th se of ev th re fr se th ro lo in th la wi th ab go , ac , an se ro : du th fi it th it lo , it ( ea ) se a re of 12 fr so , re an ob at 12 in .
in th de ph of ch . ac sl , wh ha no ca va , an no as st - re ru .
th , it is fo to pl in or to de a va fo ch . ac .
th pl de wh go th ag is at to , th se fo a se of
ac wh it pr wi sa th go .
th , th pl qu th at . to . go sl , wh qu th ac . go sl , wh qu th ob , th pl , af so se , th de a tw - st pl to ex tw ti in a ro ( th pl le to a pr so re of 12 in , wh wo ch . ac sl is th fo . 12 ( th fi st of th
th ag ca th re of ea of th ab sl qu , al wi an ex th ju ea sl va in te of th va fr wh it wa de .
re ea be ( sl th ne of ex va ) of th ag ev to se fe of it
in th ab sc th ag ha to co a pl in or to in it ch . ac .
th , it fo a ne st - re ru wh wi re ch ac in fu si , wi pl .
th ag th ex th ac an be a ne cy by th so fe an de an ot se fe ( in th ca th ob ba le , wh wa qu by th pl as it ch th fo va ac ) .
du th se cy , th st - re ru le du th fi cy ap , an th ag qu de ex fo . 12
as it ga ex , ac ad ru an an in pr of it de ar ma by in th st - re ru ra th pl .
in th ne si
ru le
th ru ac pr us by th th - ag is an ex - ba le al ca eb ( mi , et al , 12 ) .
th pr ex wh th ch . ac of th th - ag is ju , fi th we co un wh th ex ho , pr , gi so ch . ac , ? ac , th th - ag ex wh ? ac ju . ac ( ? ag , ? ac ) t
( 12 ) th at . to . go of th ? ag is ? g ( 12 ) ? g is sa by re of ? ag pl ( 12 ) th ta of ? ag pl wi no su wi
fi ex ? ac
( 12 ) ? ac is th fi st of th ? ag pl
ch . ac is a ju . ac as de ab , th de th we co on th ob . wo
un wh th ex wi ho
co , fo ex , a sc in wh th he ag is at to an ha co a th go go . id . th . ob , fi 12 - l sh th ex ge by th sy fo wh fa . th . ob in th fi , ea li co to so be of th ag , an le of in re de .
ea be is wr in th fo ( fr sl .
. . ) =v .
an ar su as c - - ob . va - - in ho th be ab an le of th ar wa in fr th be be an to it ri .
fo ex , th le be th th he is su by th ( wo go . id . ob sa ? ) =t , an ( 12 ) ( wo me . th . ob pr . sa ? ) =n .
wo is th cu ob . wo , wo is th wo st wh is pr to re fr th ag pl , an pr . sa ? th pr in wh th pr of an ac ar sa in a gi wo st .
th th su be co to th fi th cl in th ab de of ju . ac
no th th cl in th in th ca th ta of th ag pl ca su si th pr of th se st of th pl ar no sa in th in ob wo .
( 12 ) id of th . ob
is no kn
( 12 ) so in ob . wo ( 12 ) no ( 12 < ? s < 12 ( 12 ) no ( 12 < ? s < 12 ( 12 ) ba in ob . wo ( 12 ) di to th . ob
( 12 ) 12 <= ? di <= 12 ( 12 , 12 ) di to th - ob
( 12 ) no t - 12 <= ? di <= 12
( w1 ba ) = 12 ( w1 ba ob - va )
( w1 ba ) = 12
di ) = 12
di kn ? ) = t
di ) = 12
di ) = 12
( w1 ba ob . va )
di kn ? ) = t
of he = fa - th - ob
fi 12 - 12 : ru fo ex fr fi 12 - l
fi 12 - 12 sh th en de of th ru fr th ex of le of ea ru
pr by th th - ag fi 12 - l . - th nu
fi 12 - 12 : ex fo ( he ju . ac ) = fa . th . ob
12 cl in of . ac re
th th fi st of th pl be es to th pl su .
wi th re , th de is to we , an ca pr ru th re no - es ac su as wa , pr th ca be
12 fo cl is no ev ma ex , si th is sa by
de th ru po to re th cu ac .
ju . ac wh is su by th pr .
fo ex , th fi fo li in th ru as th th ro is in a wo st fo wh it sh at to th ( i . e . , th as th th go wi be ac , an th al hi pr go wi be in ) .
of co th ru ne no ex me th go or an ot , si it in me ob se fe wh im th ac of th re go .
si , th ru ne no me th pl , si it in me th co , la ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , wh as th th fi st of th pl wi le ev to ac th de go .
in al , th ag ty le fr fi to fi st - re ru fo th se of go an ac , de on it sp ex an th se in wh th ar en .
by ad an re ot go an ac , ot ag ca be sp th wi co ou in se of st - re ru th pr di be .
im of ex on ag re ti wi ex , th ty re ti of th th - ag in th ab sc dr fr a fe mi to un a se , du to it ac of st - re ru an it ca of be .
le us de re ti as th ti re fo a si it of th se - de - ex lo of th ag .
si , de se ti , de ti , an ex ti as th ti re fo th co po of th cy .
de ti is re by tw fa :
l ac of st - re ru .
ma a st - re ru re on th or of te mi , wh pl ty re
l ca of be ab fu wo st .
th ti re by pl is re as a re of ca al ag be .
de of fu wo st co by th pl ( e . g . , th wr so re in th wo th wi re fr ap th ac to th cu ob . wo ) ar ca , an re as be of th ag ev af it se wo is up .
so ca fe of th im fu wo ma be un ea cy as ol se va ar re by ne on , bu ot te to re .
th im in ag re ti is su in th ti da fr a ty sc , sh in ta 12 - l .
th fi li sh de ti an to re ti fo a se - de - ex cy in wh a pl mu be cr .
no th he de ti co th bu of re ti .
th se li of th ta sh th co of pr a ve si pl on th ne cy .
th sp ov th fi li is du to th us of sl th fi pl va wh we ca du
ta 12 - i : ef of le on ag re ti
( ti ar in co on a su wo )
ep , an wh ex re va th th se cy .
th th li sh th ti fo a th cy in wh th ag ap a se of le st - th sa ac .
he , de ti ( 12 ms . ) is co to se ti ( 12 ms ) an th ti to in ex of th ro ac ( 12 ms . ) , so th de ti no lo co th bu of ov re ti .
th de ti is fo em to re ui 12 + 12 ms .
to te a se of r st - re ru .
fi ab ar de on th pa ag go , se , tr ex , ac , et .
sc to mo co ag th re hu or th of st - re le st - re pa .
ap su as re ma , or en st - re pa in ( ro , 12 , br , 12 ) ma be im fo sc to la sy .
at pr , th si re re he is si th ex pr th th le me em in th th - ag ar su to re de ti by tw or of ma fo a re ro wi fa si go , so th de ti ce to do ov re ti of th ag .
fo en an in
ty of ne
su , li an fu wo
th ke de fe of th th - ag ar : e a st - re
sy co wi a pl co of br sc bu sl ti .
th co al qu re fo ro si , pl fl to pl wh no si ar en .
co of th sy .
wh fo to pl , th ag fo ne st - re ru th
sr ar si te in se wi no so in or
pa ma al .
pr pr th sa de as th cu pl , in pr th sa si .
12 th ag ch
it ow go ba on th se wo st , go ac co an re go pr .
go ar ex st - re ru gr , th fr wi
th ag on wh th nu of
th ag ex co
ca al wi an ex
12 ca an de ma
be of th ag .
ev be of th ag is th be on wh it de .
wh th ag se in ch , de be wh ar af ar de , to be re if an wh th ar su qu .
12 di be ea an la re in or to mi th lo bo on re ti , se se fe ar ea up du ea ag cy .
ot fe ar la up by de th an th if an wh th ar re .
fo of at me th he mi re ti .
in dy co th as of ea an la se fe .
th ar se re cr of th cu
fu , we ho
li .
am th ar :
12 th ki of pl th th pe ma be un di in ma si , du to la of kn ab th wo , th li ef of th ag ac , or ot ch in th wo .
on po re to th li is to ad ne de - ma me be th cu pl an st - re sy .
fo ex , on co im a de - ma fu ov wo st , wi an ev ac ba on on - st lo ( si to th pr ( ka , 12 ) , a sp of mu - de co .
ho , le me su as th us he mi st co st - re ru fr th de pr by th sp of de - ma .
in re , it de do no be re ru ar on as go as th pl an ac mo fr wh th ar co .
we ar in in ex th sy to al it to in le be mo of th ef of it ac , as a re of it ex .
pr
re wi th ki of le us a ha - ey ro ar de in ( ch , et al . , 12 , zr an mo , 12 ) .
in on mi wa
* th cu pl co th co of it pl , bu no th co of se or ef co .
th , th pl an th st - re ru de fr th ma re to se fe wh ar qu ex to ob , an wh co in or to gu co of a pl to pi up a cu , it mi be ne to ve th th cu is no gl to th fl .
th cu sy wo in su a te in th st - re ru th re th gr op , pr th fe wa co by th pl .
we mu fi a wa to al th ag to ch wh te ar ne an wh ca be ig in or to co pl pl th it ca th at , an re fr as ne .
t1 sc is .
as no in th pr se , th cu ro sy re on a sm se of st - re ru to go it be .
we mu co ho th ap ca be sc to mo co si .
so av ar to ( 12 ) kn ( e . g . , in ru by go , so th ma su of ru ar st ra th a si se ) , ( 12 ) de a mo se st fo in le on wh th be ou th co , an ( 12 ) co re of th co fi co co ne ne wi co re ti ) .
th sa ex pr
th no of
re sy fr mo ge bu sl se - ba sy is an im ap to ex th fl of ro sy wh st ac ti .
th sp de of th th - ag il on wa to or su a sy .
ou in ar by ad ne le me th wi al it to im th co of it ac mo an it ab to us pe it wo .
th ad le ca ar in to co th ty of le pr he .
is to ex
ac .
th wo is ba on ex to ea jo wo wi ji bl , re in ( bl an mi , 12 ) .
si co to th de of th th - ag .
th al to th en th gr , wh pr th th sy on wh th - ag is bu .
th pr re , an le
i am mo gr
me us by th th - ag .
fi , th to lo - ji li wh de a nu of th ro fo in fr wo to th ro .
th re no - 12 - k - 12 an by na un re co
by da un
