we co th pr of ze - sh le , wh th go is to le a cl - si f : x y th mu pr no va of y th we om fr th tr se .
to ac th , we de th no of a se ou co cl ( so ) wh ut a kn ba of se pr of y to ex to no cl .
we pr a fo fo th ty of cl an st it th pr in a pa fr , sh co un - de wh th cl ca ac pr no cl .
as a ca st , we bu a so cl fo a ne de ta an sh th it ca of pr wo th pe ar th ab fr fu ma re im ( fm ) of th ne ac , ev wi tr ex fo th wo .
ma le al ha be su ap to le cl in ma do su as co vi , fr de , an br im an .
ty , cl ar tr to ap a ta fu f : x y , gi a se of la tr da th in al po va fo y , an so ad un tr da .
li re ha be pe on ze - sh le , wh th po va fo th cl va y in va th ha be om fr th tr ex .
th is an im pr se , es in do wh y ca ta on ma va , an th co of ob la ex fo al va is hi .
on ob ex is co vi , wh th ar te of th of ob wh we mi wa a co to re .
an ex is in ne ac de , wh th go is to de th wo or ob a pe is th ab by ob an im of th pe ne ac .
it is in to co ne tr im fo ev po wo in en , so to bu a pr ne de we mu ha a wa to ex to re wo be th in th tr se .
th pr is si to th ch of au sp re , wh it is de to re wo wi ex in th du cl tr .
to ac vo in , sp re sy ty em a ph - ba re st ( wa , 12 ) .
ph ar th co pa wh ca be co to co th wo of a la .
sp re sy su by le a re sm se of ph
re in co wi a la kn ba re wo as co of to ap a si ap to ne ac de , we mu di ho to in th co - ne pa of a wo me fr ne ac .
wh th is no cl co as to ho th br en se in ( pl , 12 ) , th ar se pr re th mi se as a kn ba of ne ac , th en a ne de to re a la se of po wo , ev wh th wo ar om fr a tr se .
th ge qu th pa as is :
gi a se en of a la se of co cl , ca we bu a cl to re cl th we om fr th tr se ? we pr a fo fr fo ad th qu an a co ex fo th ta of ne ac de .
we sh it is po to bu a cl th ca re wo a pe is th ab , ev wi tr ex fo th pa wo .
12 re wo
th pr of ze - sh le ha re li at in th ma le co .
so wo by la et al .
( 12 ) on ze - da le ha sh th ab to pr no cl of di th we om fr a tr se .
in co vi , te fo sh fe ac ob cl ha be in ( to & mu , 12 ba & ul , 12 ) bu re li wo ha fo on re en no cl , wi th ex of la et al .
( 12 ) pr vi pr of ne ob an fa et al .
( 12 ) us vi pr pr fo ob re .
in th ne im co , ka et al .
( 12 ) ha sh th ab to de ( fr vi co ac ) wh no vi sc a pe is vi fr a la se of po im , bu wi re th im co pe se .
th wo mo si to ou ow is mi ( 12 ) .
th us se fe de fr co st to ge a ne ac pa fo an no in en .
in ou wo , by co , we fo on wo de , wh gi a no ne im , we wi to pr th wo fr a la se of po wo .
we al co se fe th ar de fr hu la in ad to co st .
fu , we in a fo fo a ze - sh le an pr th gu on it ab to re no cl om fr a
12 cl wi se kn
in th se we fo th no of a ze - sh le th us se kn to ex - ol to no cl .
wh a ze - sh le co ta ma fo , we pr on su mo th ut an in se of fe de fr a se kn ba .
in , ou go is to tr ea cl no as si an at la , bu in re it us a ve of se fe ch a la nu of po cl .
ou mo wi le th re be in da an th se fe .
th wi us th le re in a tw st pr pr to re th cl la fo no in da .
gi ne in da , th mo wi pr a se of se fe co to th in , an th nd th cl in th kn ba th be ma th se of pr fe .
si , th pr wi ev wo fo in da fr a no cl if th cl is in in th se kn ba ( i . e .
ev if no in sp re is av fo th cl , bu a fe en of it ex in th se kn ba ) .
de 12
se fe sp a se fe sp of p di is a me sp in wh ea of th p di en th va of a se pr .
th pr ma be ca in na or ma co re - va da .
as an ex , co a se sp fo de hi - le pr of an .
in th ex , we co a sm sp wi on p = 12 di .
ea di en a is it fu ? do it ha a ta ? ca it br un ? is it ca ? is it sl mo ? in th se fe sp , th pr co of do mi be re as th po ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
de 12
se kn ba a se kn ba k of m ex is a co of pa ( f , y ) 12 : m su th f f p is a po in a p di se sp f p an y y is a cl la fr a se y .
we as a on - to - on en be cl la an po in th se fe sp .
a kn ba of an wo co th se en an la fo ma an .
de 12
se ou co cl a se ou co cl h : x d y ma po fr so d di ra - in sp x d to a la fr a se y su th h is th co of tw ot fu , s an l ,
h = l ( s ( ) ) : x d f p l : f p y
th mo of a ze - sh cl rs ma fr a d di ra - in sp x d in a se sp of p di f p , an th ma th se en to a cl la .
fo ex , we ma im so ra - in fe fr a di im of a do rs ma in th se en of a do de ea , wh is th ma to th cl la do .
as a re , ou cl la ca be th of as a se ou co , si in sp to th er - co ou co of di an ba ( 12 ) .
as pa of it tr in , th cl is gi a se of n ex d th co of pa ( x , y ) 12 : n su th x x d an y y .
th cl is al gi a kn ba k of m ex th is a co of pa ( f , y ) 12 : m su th f f p an y y .
ty , m >> n , me th da in se sp is av fo ma mo cl la th in th ra - in a se ou co cl ca be us wh th kn ba k co mo of th po va fo y th ar co by th in da d .
to le th ma s , th cl rs bu a ne se of n ex ( x , f ) 12 : n by re ea y wi th re se en f ac to it kn ba k .
th in be us th tw - st pr is th th cl ma be ab to le th re be th ra - in sp an th in di of th se fe sp fr a re sm nu of tr ex in th in sp .
wh a ne ex is pr , th cl wi ma a pr ab it se en us th le s ma .
ev wh a ne ex be to a cl th di no ap in th tr se d , if th pr pr by th s ma is cl to th tr en of th cl , th th l ma wi ha a re ch of re th co la .
as a co ex , if th mo ca pr th ob ha fu an a ta , it wo ha a go ch of re th cl la do , ev wi ha se im of do du tr .
in sh : by us a ri se en of th cl , th cl ma be ab to ex an re no cl .
12 th an
in th se we co th pr of a se ou co cl th de it ab to re in of no cl .
in ot wo , we wi ad th qu : un wh co wi th se ou co cl re ex fr cl om fr it tr se ?
in an th qu , ou go is to ob a pa - st bo : we wa to kn ho mu er ca be to in th pr of th se pr wh st re th no cl wi hi pr .
we wi th us th er bo to ob a bo on th nu of ex ne to ac th le of er in th rs st of th cl .
th id is th if th rs st s ( ) of th cl ca pr th se pr we , th th se st l ( ) wi ha a go ch of re th co la fo in fr no cl .
as a rs st to a ge th of ze - sh le , we wi co on in of a se ou co cl .
we wi as th se fe ar bi la , th rs st s ( ) is a co of pa - le li cl ( on cl pe fe ) , an th se st l ( ) is a 12 - ne ne cl us th ha di me .
by ma th as , we ca le ex pa th fo li cl as we as th fo ap ne ne se .
mu of ou ne - ne an pa th wo of ci an pa ( 12 ) .
we rs wa to bo th am of er we ca to gi a pr of se fe .
to nd th bo , we de f to be th di in se fe sp of po fr th kn ba k .
cl po ( cl ) in se sp ma no be eq fr ea ot .
a po mi be fa fr ot , wh wo al mo ro fo er in th pr of se fe fo th po , wh ma th ab to re it un id ( la ) .
co , a po cl to ot in se sp wi ha lo to of er .
in sh , th to fo er is re to a pa po in re to ot po in se sp .
we ne de a pr q to be th ou of th s ( ) ma ap to so ra - in ex x x d .
le d ( q , q ( ci : 12 ) ) be th di be th pr q an so ot po q ( ci : 12 ) re a cl in th se sp .
we de th re di rq fo a po q as th pr th th di fr q to q ( ci : 12 ) is le th so di z :
th em di de on f an is ju th fr of sa po fr f th ar le th so di z aw fr q .
us th di , we ca al de a di on th di to th ne ne of q , de as q :
rq ( z ) = p ( d ( q , q ( ci : 12 ) ) z )
gq ( z ) = p ( q z )
wh is gi in ci ( 12 ) as :
gq ( z ) = 12 ( 12 rq ( z ) ) n
wh n is th nu of ac po dr fr th di f .
no su th we de q to be th di a pr q fo ra - in ex x is fr th tr se en of th cl to wh x be .
in , th cl we in fo in x is go to be th po cl to pr q , so we wa a sm pr th th di q to th tr cl is la th th di be q an it ne ne , si th wo me th is a sp ne cl to q in se sp th th po re qs tr cl :
p ( q q )
re we ca pu th in te of th di gq an th ca so fo q :
p ( q q )
if gq ( ) we in , we co im re th va q fo a de .
fo so di , gq ( ) ma no be a 12 - to - 12 fu , so th ma no be an in .
bu gq ( ) wi ne de si it is a cu di fu .
we wi th de a fu g1 su th : g1 so us ne ne fo l ( ) , if q g1 q ( ) , th we wi re th co cl wi at le 12 pr .
to en th we ac th er bo , we ne to ma su th to er of s ( ) is le th g1 .
we as in th an th we ha p bi se fe an a ha di me , so ma de th to
q ( ) wh we de as ma
q ( ) = ar
nu of mi we ca ma pr th bi fe .
no wi ou as , ea se fe is pa - le us a li cl fr a d di ra in sp .
to si th an , we wi tr ea of th p se fe as in le .
by th pa as , th tr er ( i . e .
pr of th cl ma a mi ) of ea of th p le hy is , th th ex nu of mi ov th p se fe wi be mi is gi by th bi di : bi ( ma we ca ob th de er ra fo ea hy by ut th st pa bo fo vc - di ( mi , 12 ) .
to ob a hy wi ( 12 ) pr th ha tr er at mo = ma
/ p = g1 ( ) / p , th th cl re a nu of ex mq , :
fu , th pr of ma at mo ma
if we se = ma
; p , ma
12 ( 12 / ) + 12 ( d + 12 ) lo ( 12 / ma
if ea of th p cl ( fe pr ) is le wi th ma ex , th wi pr - ab ( 12 ) p , al fe pr wi ac th de er ra .
bu no th th is on th pr of ac p hy wi th de tr er ra .
th bi cd yi mi to , an th ( 12 ) te ab sp th th pr of ma at mo ma pr of re th tr cl if a ma of th ma mi we ma .
th , th ar th pr ev re fo th se ou co cl to pr a no cl an th to ( jo ) pr of th ev is :
p ( th ar p fe pr wi tr er ma p ( at mo ma p ( re tr cl | at mo ma
mi ma | th ar p fe pr wi tr er ma
an si ma
q ( ) , th to pr is gi by : ( 12 ) p bi ( g1
q ( ) ; p , g1
q ( ) / p ) ( 12 )
in su , gi de er pa ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) fo th tw cl st , eq 12 pr th to pr of co pr a no cl .
gi th va fo we ca co th ne fo ea fe pr .
we ar gu to ob th to pr if th fe pr we tr wi mq , ra - in ex as sp in eq 12
to ou kn , eq 12 an 12 sp th rs fo gu th pr co un wh a cl ca pr no cl .
12 ca st : ne de of no th
in th se we em ev a se ou co cl on a ne de ta .
th ob is to de no wo a pe is th ab fr fm im of th pe ne ac , wi in ex fm im of th wo du tr .
we ut th sa fm da fr mi ( 12 ) .
th da co th ne ac ob fr ni hu pa wh vi 12 di co wo ( 12 ex fr 12 di ca ) .
so ex in an : be , do , ca , co , ho an ve : tr , ca , tr , ai , bi .
ea pa wa sh a wo an a sm li dr of th co ob th wo re .
th pa we as to th ab th pr of th ob fo se se wh im of th br ac we re .
ea im me th ne ac at ro 12 , 12 lo ( i . e .
vo ) in th br .
si fm sc we ta fo ea wo .
we us th sa ti - av de in mi ( 12 ) to cr a si av br ac pa fo ea of th 12 wo , fo ea pa .
12 vc di of li cl in d di is d + 12
in th la of th se ou co cl , th da re th co d of ra - in sp ex .
we al co tw se kn ba fo th 12 wo .
in th rs se kn - ed ba , co , ea wo is re as a co - oc ve wi th 12 mo fr wo fr th go tr - wo - co
th se se kn ba , hu , wa cr us th me tu hu co se fr am . co .
th we 12 se fe co fo th 12 wo , an th qu we se to re ps co ab ne ac en .
fo ex , th qu re to si , sh , su pr , an ty us .
ex qu in is it ma ? an ca yo ho it ? .
us of th me tu se an th qu fo ea wo on a sc of 12 to 12 ( de no to de ye ) .
in ou ex , we us mu ou li re to le th s ( ) ma of th se ou co cl .
le x ( ci : 12 ) nd be a tr se of fm ex wh ea ro is th im fo a pa wo an d is th nu of di of th fm im .
du tr , we us th vo - st - cr th do no us th cl la de in mi ( 12 ) to re d fr ab 12 , 12 vo to 12
le y ( ci : 12 ) np be a ma of se fe fo th wo ( ob fr th kn ba k ) wh p is th nu of se fe fo th
wo ( e . g .
12 fo th hu kn ba ) .
we le a ma of we ( ci : 12 ) w ( ci : 12 ) dp
th mo , ea ou is tr in , so we ca so al of th qu in on ma op ( ev wi th of se fe ) :
( ci : 12 ) w = ( xt x + i ) 12 y
wh i is th id ma an is a re pa ch au us th cr - va sc fu ( ha et al . , 12 ) 12
gi a no fm im x , we ca ob
a pr ( ci : 12 ) f of th se fe fo th im by mu th im by th we : ( ci : 12 ) f = x ( ci : 12 ) w cl .
in ot wo , l ( ( ci : 12 ) f ) wi ta th pr of fe an re th cl po in a
fo th se st of th se ou co cl , l ( ) , we si us a 12 - ne ne
gi kn ba ac th eu di ( l1 ) me .
us th mo an da de ab , we no po an an th im qu .
ca we bu a cl to di be tw cl , wh ne cl ap in th tr se ? to an th qu , we pe a le - tw - ou - cr - va .
sp , we tr th mo in eq 12 to le th ma be 12 fm im an th se fe fo th re wo .
fo th rs he ou im , we ap th le we ma to ob a pr of th se fe , an th we us a 12 - ne ne cl to co th ve of pr to th tr se en of th tw he - ou wo .
th la wa ch by se th wo wi th en cl to th pr fo th fm im .
we th pe th sa te us th se he - ou im .
th , fo ea it of th cr -
va , tw se co we ma .
th pr wa re fo al ( ci : 12 ) 12
( ci : 12 ) = 12 , 12
po le - tw - ou co le to 12 , 12 to co .
ta 12 sh th re fo tw di se fe en .
we se th th hu se fe si ou th co fe , wi me ac ov th ni pa of 12 an 12 re .
bu fo bo fe se , we se th it is po to di be tw no cl fo ea of th ni pa .
12 ar no to un le an do no in 12 st wo li a , th , is 12 co th cr - va sc fo ea ta an ch th pa th mi th av
lo ac al ou ta .
ta 12 : pe ac fo le - tw - ou - cr - va fo 12 fm pa ( la p1 - p1 ) .
th va re cl pe ac ov 12 , 12 tr wh di be - tw tw fm im , bo of wh we om fr th tr se .
fi 12 : te se fe fr th hu kn ba fo th wo be an do .
th tr en is sh al wi th pr en wh fm im fo be an do we le ou of th tr se .
ho is th cl ab to di be cl re no cl ? fi 12 sh te se qu ( fe ) fr th hu da .
th gr sh th tr va al wi th pr fe va fo bo be an do wh tr on th ot 12 wo .
we se th mo is ab to le to pr ma of th ke fe th be an do ha in co su as is it an an ? as we as th th di be th tw , su as do yo se it da ? an ca yo ho it ? fo bo of th no wo , th fe pr fr th ne da we cl to th tr wo .
ca we de th wo fr a la se of po wo ? gi th su of th se ou co cl at di be th br im fo tw no wo , we no co th mu ha pr of di a no wo fr a la se of ca wo .
to te th ab , we pe a le - on - ou - cr - va , wh we tr us eq 12 on im an se fe fo 12 wo .
we th pr - di th fe fo th he - ou im of th 12 wo , an th pe a 12 - ne ne cl in a la se of ca wo .
we te tw di wo se .
th rs wa mr wh is th co of al 12 co no fo wh we co fm da , in th 12 tr wo an th si he ou wo .
th se se wa no , a co of 12 en no wi hi fa , co an im , co fr wi ( 12 ) an sn ( 12 ) .
fo th se of wo , we ad th tr he - ou wo to th se of 12 on ea cr - va it .
we pe th ex us bo th co an hu fe se .
th ra ac re ( ov 12 cr - va it ) of th fo ex ar sh in fi 12
th hu fe ag si ou co on bo me an me ra ac me , an bo fe se pe we ab ch .
on 12 of 12 to pr of th mr wo ( 12 pr fo ea of ni pa ) , th hu fe pr th si he - ou wo ab al 12 ot wo in it tr se .
wh ju a bi ab ch le ( 12 / 12 ) , th fa th th mo ev ch th he - ou wo ov al th tr wo is no si th mo is un bi to pr fe va si to th wo on wh it wa tr .
on th no wo , th mo pr th co wo fr th se of 12 al a to of 12 ti fo th hu fe an 12 ti fo th co fe .
fo so su , th mo co pi th ri
be & do pr ma - 12 - 12 - 12 - 12 - 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 it an ? is it ma - ma ? do yo se da ? is it ? ca yo it ? wo yo it in ah ? do yo it ? do it on le ? is it wi ? do it ? an pr ta ta pr fi 12 : th me an me ra ac ac ni pa fo tw di se fe se .
bo th or 12 fm wo an a se of 12 no we co .
ta 12 : th to ve pr wo fo a no fm im ta fo th wo in bo ( al fm im ta fr pa p1 ) .
th nu in th pa co th ra of th co wo se fr 12 co no in en .
wo fr th se of 12 mo th 12 of th ti .
th ch ac of pr a wo co is on 12 , me we wo ex le th on co pr ac al 12 as fi 12 sh , th me ra ac ar of si hi th th me ra ac .
us th hu fe on th no wo , th me ra ac is ab 12 fo ea pa wh th me is ty ab 12 lo .
th is du to th fa th se wo ar co pr po .
th pr of wo in th ca an - ma , bo pa , fo , to , an ve ty pe we , wh th wo in th ca fu , ma - ma it , an in of pe po .
ev wh th co wo is no th cl ma , th wo th be ma th pr fe ar of ve si to th he - ou wo .
ta 12 sh th to ve pr wo fo ei di he - ou fm im fo pa p1 ( i . e .
th 12 cl wo in th se of 12 to th pr ve of se fe ) .
we pr a fo fo a ze - sh le al kn as th se ou co cl .
th cl ca pr no cl th we om fr a tr se by le a se kn ba th en fe co to bo th no cl an th tr se .
we al pr th rs fo gu th sh co un wh th cl wi pr no cl .
we de th se ou co cl on th ta of ne de us se kn ba de fr bo hu la an co st .
we sh th cl ca pr th wo a pe is th ab fr a re fm im of th pe ne ac wi ac mu hi th ch , ev wh tr ex fo th pa wo we om fr th tr se an th cl wa fo to pi th wo fr am ne 12 , 12 al .
we ha sh th tr im of br ac ar no re fo ev wo we wo li a cl to re .
th re si ad th st - of - th - ar in ne de an ar a pr st to a la vo br - co in .
