it is of us to cl em ac - in to th in of th se ( e . g . , " pr - po a me " , " de in " ) .
we pr ex re in le - in to cl em in th fa , wh ea cl co to a ve - no pa ta fr a pr on - og de ty em sp ac .
we de th , al th ca pr is qu di - fe fr to te cl , ce ca of me ca no - th be de wi hi pr ( ab 12 ) an re re ( ab 12 ) us ex te - cl le me .
th re su th us ta - tr to co be co ba on au cl - ca in th ta .
me wh co be us to pa au - ma th so of ac tr .
a hy ex of an em as th wo al th li is sh in fi 12
do yo ha an sa sc - re em we co us as da ? - st
su , il pu so to
fr , ca yo co th ms fr th cs co ta w / th me no , as ? - bi
as an : ne em re , pr
as : sh i ad th ne co to yo to -
as : no ou re , ma ta ac if no an is re pr .
ye , i ca ge to th in th ne fe da .
is ne mo ok ? - fr
as : no in co .
sh i se fr a re on mo ?
fi 12 - di wi a hy em as th au de em sp ac .
da bo in ou me .
( me ha be ed fo sp an an . )
in th pa we di us ma le - in me to cl em ac to th in of th se .
in pa , we cl em ac to an on of ve ( e . g . , pr , co , de ) an no ( e . g . , in - ma , me , ta ) , wh jo de th em sp ac in by th em se .
a me fo ac cl of em in su ca wo ha ma po be .
fo in , it co be us to he an em us tr th st of on jo ac - ti .
de an co of jo ta is a ti - co an er - pr ac , an th co of er is hi : it is no un th co ar fo , de ar mi , an op ar wa be of a fa to pr tr , de , an pr su - ta .
th cl me we co
12 re wo
ou re bu on ea wo de il - lo po of sp ac ( se , 12 ) , an re su sp ac to em an wo - fl tr ( wi , 12 , fl & lu - lo , 12 , we et al , 12 ) .
wi su th re ex th sp - ac ba la - ac pe on hu co co be us to bu mo us - fu to fo co jo ac .
th co ( wi , 12 ) wa on su sy - te , in wh us au em me wi ad an in in .
wh su sy ha be us in li - it co , th ha al be cr as cu : by fo us to co to a pa fo sy , th co co - ni an ma it le na ( sc , 12 ) ; in sh , us of pr un em in ( ca et al .
12 ) .
we no th
th di ar av if me ca be au an by in , ra th so a st of in fr th us .
mu et al .
( 12 ) pr an em an - no sc br si to ou , ca a de tr , an an al fo co - st de tr au , bu th ap wa no qu ev .
th ap is ba on re a se of ha - co li cl .
a li of th ap is th th ha - co li cl ar la - sp ( an in fa li to ja te . )
pr re on ma le fo te cl ha pr co cl - ti of do by to ( le , 12 ya , 12 ) , bu al ha ad se de ( pa et al . , 12 we et al . , 12 ) an au - th at ( e . g . , ar et al , 12 ) .
th ha be so pr us of ma le to cl em me ( co 12 sa et al . , 12 re , 12 se & ke , 12 ) .
ho , to ou kn , no of th sy ha in le me fo as em sp ac .
in , em is ge cl in fo ( i . e . , ac - co to to ) or ac to wh or no it is sp .
le sy ha be pr - to au de ac co sp ( e . g .
fi et al . , 12 ) .
12 an on of em ac
ou on of no an ve co so of th po sp ac as wi em is su in fi 12
we as th a si em me ma co mu ac , an th ea ac is de by a ve - no pa dr fr th on ( e . g . , " de da " ) .
th un no in th fi in th no an ve fo wh we ha tr cl - si ( as di in su se ) .
to de th no an ve on of fi 12 , we fi ex em fr se co ( in ou ow in ) to fi re - la , an th pe a mo de an of on co .
th on wa fu re in th pr of la th co de -
in re th on , we ad se pr .
fi , we be th it is mo im -
ta fo th on to re ob li be th to re an ab vi of th sp of po sp ac .
as a co , th ta of ve co co th ar at li , bu co se il - ti po .
( fo ex , th li un " le ' s do lu " is bo di , as it re th re , an co , as it im co - mi th se .
in ou ta th is a si ' pr ' ac . ) al , ac wh ar ab po bu no ob in ou da ar no re - re ( fo in , de ) .
fi 12 ta
se , we be th th ta mu re - fl co no - li us of em , su as th us of em as a me to de fi .
we ha gr th wi th li si sp ac of de in .
th ve in fi 12 ar de as fo .
a re as ( or or ) th re to pe - fo so ac .
a qu is al co a re ( fo de of in ) .
a pr me pr a jo ac , i . e . , as th re to pe so ac an co th se as we , pr th re - ci ag to th re .
a ty ex is an em su a jo me .
an am me am an ea pr .
li a pr , th me in bo a co an a re .
ho , wh a pr is as wi a ne ta , an am is a su mo of an
a co me co th se to so fu co of ac , or co th se ' in to co wi so pr de co of ac .
a de me de so , e . g . , so in , a po pr , th ur of a we , th an to a qu , a me se " fy , or an op .
th re , gr , an re ve oc ve in in ou da , an he we di no at to le cl fo th ( in th in st ) .
th pr re fo re ou in th wa wa ou ex th hu an wo be sl an le re - ab if gi a mo co ta .
th no in fi 12 co po ob - je fo th em sp ac ve .
th no fa in tw br ca .
in no ar as wi em sp ac de by th ve de , re - mi an am , in wh th em ex co in .
we al as in - ti no wi th ve re , wh th em co in a de of th ne in ( e . g . , " pl se yo bi . " ve " my bi is " .
th re ac is ac fo a ' de in ' ac ) .
in - fo in da be to be fa as we as op , an al at da fi .
ac no ar ge as wi em sp ac de by th ve pr - po , re , co , an re .
ac in me , as we as lo te ac su as co me .
no ev em sp ac is it an ac - ti .
th <v no in fi 12 in - ca th an em sp ac ca al se as
th no as wi so ot em sp ac .
fo ex , ju as ( de in - ma ) is a le sp ac , so is ( co ( de in ) ) .
au co - in su ne sp ac is an in an di to ho , in th cu pa we co on th pr of de to - le th ve fo su co sp ac .
fo in , fo a me co a ( co ( de in ) ) ou go wo be to au de th co ve bu no th in ( de in ) co no .
12 ca re
al em is ub , la an re - ti em co ar ra av fo re pu .
th li av is la du to pr is : fo in , in mo us ac - de in , a us em ca on be di - tr to re if al se of th em al pr ex wr co .
th em co us in ou ex co of fo di em da co fr wo gr wh si ag to ma th em ac to re .
th fi th da , n1 , n1 , an n1 ar an su of a la co , th cs em co , wh co ap - ma 12 , 12 em me co fr a ma co at ca me un - si .
in th co , 12 mb st , or in ap 12 te of fo to si me - be , ra si co in di ma sc ov a 12 - we pe ( kr et al . ) .
n1 , n1 an n1 ar co of al em me wr by pa fr th di te , an co 12 , 12 an 12 di em me re .
th fo da , th pw ca co , wa ge du a fo - da ex co at sr sp to ge an em co .
du th ti a gr of si pe as di wo ro ( e . g .
pr le , fi ma , re , ad as , et ) an pe a nu of gr ac .
th ar 12 em me in th co .
th em co ar al ta - re , an as wi a sm wo gr , so it is no su th th co ma in of th em ac de ab in , th cs co co an av of ab 12 em ve pe me .
in an of ot pe in su th th so of em is co fo ma un us .
we be th ne of sh ta is a ce - tr us of em in ma wo en .
al me we pr by re qu ma , at , an no - su he in .
th pr wa pe - fo ma , bu wa li to op wh ca be re au .
th mo di - cu st is re of qu ma , wh we ad el ( ca & co , 12 ) .
ea me ma be an wi se la , as it ma co se sp ac .
to ev in - an ag , we do - la n1 fo th ve de , co , re , am , an pr , an th no , me , an co th ka st ( ca - le , 12 ) fo ea of th , de as
wh a is th em pr of ag on a ca , an r is th pr of ag - me fo tw an th la do at ra ( wi th em ob fr of ea la ) .
he ka ra fr - 12 to +1
th re in ta 12 sh th ag is go , bu no pe .
ta 12 - in - an ag on n1
to do - an me wh ha on a si ve la an co - st th 12 - cl co ma fo th tw an sh in ta 12
no ka va
ar so hi fo th sh on - ac me -
ta 12 - in - an ag on do wi on on ca .
12 le of ca
re of do .
to as th ty of me fe th ar mo im fo pr , we ad su ve ma - ch ( jo , 12 ) as ou ba le me , an a tf - we ba - of - wo as a ba re fo me .
we th co a se of ex wi th n1 co on to ex th ef of di -
nf an nf al us fe
ta 12 f1 fo di fe se .
we no th th mo di wo fo mo of th ca we co wo , no th lo - to - in fr wo th ar mo di in to cl .
th su th th tf we wa in , bu th a bi re mi be mo in .
ex sh th ad bi to an un ba of wo re sl im pe - an , es on de .
th re ar sh in ta 12 on th ro ma no tf an bi .
( th tf - we sv is sh in th ro ma ba , an th ma -
jo cl in th ro ma de al nu ar f1 me on 12 - fo cr - va . ) ex of me su ot po im .
si mu ne - ti in ti , we ra a ha - co ex - tr fo ti an da ex on th da , an ex as fe th nu of ti ex - pr in a me , an th wo th oc - cu ne a ti ( fo in , on su fe is th wo be ap ne a ti ) .
th re ap in th ro ma ti .
si , we ra a pa of sp ( po ) ta an ad fe fo wo ap ne a pr or pr no ( pe in th ta ) , an al ad po co .
to de a fi re fo ea ca - go , we po al fe th im pe - fo ov no tf fo th ca .
we th co pe of th do re to th or tf ba of wo ba on th ( un ) n1 an n1 co .
as ta 12 sh , su im wi re to f1 an ka wa ob by ad th ad fe ov th ba re .
th re co wi pr ex wi bi fo to - ca te cl ( sc & ma , 12 ) an se de ( pa et al . , 12 ) .
th di is pr th in th ta , mo in - fo wo ar po am : fo in , wi yo an i wi ar co wi re an co , re , bu th in wo in th bi ar le
le me .
in an ex , we fi th do re to be un - we wo fr co an va th le al .
in th ex , we po al th da fr th fo co , a to of 12 fe in th 12 me , an si th no an ve ar no mu ex , we fo th ta as a se of se bi cl pr , on fo ea ve .
th fo le we us fr th ba on th mi to ( co , 12 ) .
vp is an im of th vo pe al ( fr & sc , 12 ) .
dt is a si de tr le sy , wh le tr of de at mo fi , an ch su by sc an
si ( 12 ) as an ap ob fo we le .
ab is an im of th co - ra bo me de by si an sc ( 12 ) , us to bo th dt al 12 ti .
sv is a su ve ma - ch wi a li ke ( as us ab ) .
ta 12 le on th en co .
ta 12 re th re on th mo co ve , us 12 - fo cr - va to as ac - cu .
on su wa th dt ( wh we ha in me as a ba le fo ab ) wo su we fo se ve , wh ab se - do im mu ov dt .
we co th th bi to la - ma cl th is fo by sv , ab , an vp ( an wh ha be so su in to - or te cl - ca ) ma be le ap fo th ta , pe - ha be po an ne cl ar no cl se ( as su by su
( to : 12 ms )
fi 12 - pr / re fo co ac
fu re ar sh in fi 12 - 12 , wh pr pr - re cu fo ma of th cl .
th lo re le in th gr
co to th pr of ra gu .
th gr in th hi - pr pr - ti ca be ma fo th to - le of th ve hi , as we as ve re an de , if on is wi to sl re re .
( to : 12 ms )
fi 12 - pr / re fo di ac
( to : 12 me )
fi 12 - pr / re of 12 di cl
tr .
on im qu in - vo th ge of th cl : to wh ra of co ca th be ac ap ? is it po to tr a si se of em - ac cl th wo fo ma us , or is it ne - es to tr in cl fo ea us ? to ex th is we tr a dt cl - si fo di em on th nf co , an te it on th nf co tr th sa cl on nf an te it on nf an al pe a 12 - fo cr - va ex wi ea co .
( nf an nf ar fo di se of us - er , bu ar ap th sa si . ) we th pe th sa ex wi vp fo de ve an sv fo co ve ( in
ea ca pi th to - pe le wi re to f1 ) .
th re ar sh in ta 12
ta 12 - tr of cl
if le cl we hi sp to a pa se of us , on wo ex th th di en of th ta ( th on ba on cr - va wi a co ) wo ex - hi mu be pe th th of - di en .
in fa , no su pa is sh .
fo di ve , pe is si - la ac al ta en , an fo de an co , it se to be so be to tr on nf re of th te se .
12 fu di
no of th al or re di - cu ab ta in ac th co of an em me , wh in is im in de im sp ac .
a pl no of co is si th pr me in an
ex th co is no - tr fo se - er re .
de th is di al - th em he co a re - to fi , us of us th re me to st wh is in a ne th .
al , si em is as , tw or mo us ma re si to a me , le to a th st wh is a tr , ra th a se - qu .
fi , mo se le mo as a si ca is as to ea in - st . g . , ( ra , 12 ) wh ou sc al mu ca .
cl of em ac to ou ve - no on co a sp ca of a ge - er fa of le pr we mi ca fa cl pr , as th cl
( em sp ac ) ar fa in tw fe ( ve an no ) wh jo de th cl .
a va of re - wo te cl pr ca be na ex as fa pr , an fr a th vi , th ad st ma al co of ne , mo ef al .
fo ex , th fa cl pr a mo el st fo ge pr - is mo , su as th as by na ba .
fo in , in le em ac , on mi as wo we dr fr a mi di wi on mi co pr - du wo co on th ve cl fa , an a se mi co ge wo co on th no ( se bl et al ( 12 ) fo a re mi mo ) .
al , mo of th de be th di fa ( no an ve ) mi al be us to im cl ac , fo in by bu in a cl th kn th so no an ve ar in .
th fa th an em ca co mu em sp ac al ce ma le - in mo di : in fa , di be hu an is ge hi fo lo me .
th pr co be ad by mo de an : ra th an ea me wi al th ac it co , hu an co la sm me se ( sa , se or pa ) .
an al to mo de ( an ex ) an wo be to us le al th im se - me a me .
as an ex , an mi mo fo mi be us , in wh ea mi co co to a si ve
12 co re
we ha pr an on of em sp ac th is de to ca so im - po pr of a ce us of em : ne - ti an co jo ac .
un pr at to co sp ac th wi em ( wi , 12 fl an lu , 12 ) , we pr a sy wh pa ob - se em an au cl it by in .
th re th bu on th us of th sy , an av sa th fl
an so de as of in , na
th pr al ra a nu of in - in re is .
we sh th en ex - tr an pa of sp ta im cl pe , bu le op th qu - ti of wh ot ty of li an wo be us .
pr sp ac re co , wh ma cl an in se ta , an th la as to me - sa ha no - tr st we al le op th qu of wh th pr ca be ef ex .
ou ex sh th ma ca of me ca be de , wi hi pr cl le me .
th su th us ta - tr to co be co - st ba on au cl po - ti im pr ap .
re , us ex
