le in th ab to ge fr pa ex - ri in or to de wi ne si th ar re to th ex .
th in le ne to de wi ne si se to be po on un ce bi fo ch on ge of th si ov an .
th pa de pr th no of bi in ge - ti pr , th sh th bi ar ne fo th in le .
cl of ju bi ar co , an th re be bi an do - in
we re th sc of th di to th pr of
ge fr tr in , de as fo :
th ge pr
la of in .
la of ge .
ma pr fo ma ge to in -
se of po an ne tr in .
ge ( s ) co wi th tr in .
as a co ex of th ab ge pr - le , co th ta ad by wi pr fo le cl of bl st ( wi 12 ) .
he , th la of in is th re us to de - sc ex bl st .
th la of ge - al is th la in wh le co ( e . g . , ar , to ) ar de .
th ma pr sp wh a gi ge ap to a gi in ( e . g . , wh th in de of an ar is sa by a sp bl st ) .
th pa ad a de di wi th ge - iz pr as de ab : if co wi th tr in is ta as th so de of ap - pr ge , th a pr ca ne ma th in le ne to cl in be th it ha ob .
on if th pr ha ot so of in - fo , or bi fo ch on ge ov th
co to el ve by : ro jo , ka st
fi 12 : re am in an ge - ti ( th gu wa mi fr th or pu an ad in 12 )
ot , ca it no - ar cl in be th in th tr se .
in th pa , we us th te bi to re to an ba fo ch on ge ov an , ot th st co wi th ob tr in .
wh is an un ge
if ge is th pr of gu th cl of in - st to wh th po tr in be , th an un ge is on th ma no a pr as - su ab wh cl of in ar mo li , bu ba al it ch on th ob da .
tw co - mo so of bi in ex le sy ar ( 12 ) th ge la is no ca of ex al po - si cl of in , an ( 12 ) th ge pr - du th se th th sp of ex ge - iz is it bi .
an un ge la in co bi in th ge la , it is us - fu to vi ea ge as de th se of in - st th it ma .
in gu 12 , fo ex , g1 an g1 ar tw ge ex in so ge - ti la , an ea ma a di su of th
re to a gi la of in , an un ge la is th on wh al de - in ev po su of th in .
in sh , an
un ge la co to th po se of th gi in la .
th im of us a bi ge la is cl : ea su of in fo wh th is no ex - ib ge is a co th co be pr to th pr , bu wh th pr wi be un to de - sc an th un to le .
if it is po to kn ah of ti th ce su of in ar ir , th it ma be us to le th ou of th ge - ti la , in or to si th le pr .
fo ex , on fe of th in ( e . g . , ( wi 12 ) , ( bu & mi 12 ) ) in a st bi of th ki , wh re co th co of th ge -
th st of th bi in by ge la - gu re to co co on fe , is il by a si ex .
co an in la - gu of bi fe ve co 12 fe , an a ge la th al co ea fe - tu va to be 12 , 12 , or do ca .
so si ar - me sh th on ab on ou of ev 12 su of in is ex in th ge la .
th pr wo qu as th nu of fe an th nu of al va pe fe in .
an un ge pr th ge pr se fo ex ge - er th de se of in , ea of wh in - cl al of th po bu no of th ne tr in - st .
of co , th ma be ma su ge .
in gu 12 , fo in , if th ob po in ar co in th in of th in se of g1 an g1 , an th ob ne in ar ou bo se , th bo g1 an g1 ar co wi th ob
an un ge pr is on wh sh no pr fo on ex ge ov an - ot , ex on th ba of co wi th tr
fo ( mi 12 ) , we de th ve sp re to a pa ge la , an a gi se of tr in , as th se of al ex ge - er co wi th tr in .
th an un ge pr mu co th ve sp re to th ob tr in , an th pr - vi ge la .
su a ge pr - du is de in ( mi 12 ) , an ha be im - me as pa of th me - de pr ( bu & mi 12 ) .
in or to co th co of an un ge - er pr , it is ne to co ho a co - pu ve sp ca be us to cl su in - st as ei po or ne .
an un cl - ca me cl th ne in as a po in - st if an on if ev ge in th ve sp ma it .
th in is cl as a ne in if an on if no ge in th ve sp ma it .
if so , bu no al , of th ge in th ve sp ma th in , th th in ca be cl -
si wi ce .
th pr co , ho , gi an es cl ba up th pr of ge - al wi th ve sp , th ma an do no ma th in .
th fu of re bi
fo a ge sy to be un fo it to co - si eq al po su of in as th po id of th cl be le it mu em an un - as ge la , an co th ve sp re to th la an th pr tr in .
al re al bi fr a ge sy - te ma se to be a de go , in fa th re is ne us .
an un le sy ab to cl - si ne in is no be th if it si st al th tr in an pe a lo wh as to cl a su in .
to se th th is th ca , co th pr de - sc ab fo us th co ve sp to cl - si ne in .
fo an un ge la , th ne in wi ma ev ge co wi th ob in if an on if it is id to on of th ob po in .
si , to be cl as a ne in , th ne in mu be id to on of th ob ne in .
fu , an in th ha no ye ap as a tr in wi ma ex ha th ge in th ve sp .
as a re , ev th sc de ab fo es th cl wi fa to pr us re .
in re , it is no su th an un ge - er sy ca ma cl of in ot th th tr in .
an un sy is on wh in lo fo fr th tr in - st , wh cl of th ne in do no lo fo fr th cl of th tr in -
us cl of bi
th is an im co to th ab di : if to un ge sy ar in of ma th in le to ch th ne in , th th po of a ge sy fo di fr it bi fr de ba on cr ot th co wi th tr in .
th , pr to un le me de up un th so of , an ju fo , va bi .
th se cl ce ki of bi th ha be us by le pr .
fa kn of th do .
in le ge - al fo a pa pu , it ma be po to li th ge co , by ap to kn - ed ab th ta do .
th me - de pr ( bu & mi 12 ) fo ge ru th ch - ac mo bo th fr in a ma sp - et .
he , ge kn of th do , su as do - bl bo ra br , ca be us to co th se fo ap ge .
si , in a pr th le th ru of ba ( so & ri 12 ) ,
un ge pr th us co wi th tr in as th on so of in , ca ou pr th us ro le .
ad - ti in or bi ar th cr to th ab - it to cl in th ar no id to th tr in .
th fa ha si im fo re on ma le .
if bi an in kn ar at th he of th ab - it to ge be ob da , th ef to st ma le mu fo on th co us pr kn , bi , an ob in gu th le pr .
it wo be wi to ma th bi an th us in co le ju as ex as pa re ha ma th ob an th us .
th fo pe ha pr th co on va dr of th pa , an ha co th ow id : sa am , ge dr , n . s .
sr , an pa ut .
th wo wa su by ni gr rr - 12 - 12 , an by an aw fr th ru re co -
