in br im ex re an of co , mu da .
in re ye , on an ap th ha gr in po is th us of ma le al to tr cl to de st , me st , be an ot va of in fr fm da an th sh th da co en in ab th .
in th tu ov we re so of th ke ch fa in us th ap as we as ho to de st si re , il ea po fr a ca st .
fu , we sh ho , in ad to an th qu of is th in ab a va of in ( pa di ) , cl ca be us to ta ot cl of qu , na wh is th in ( pa lo ) an ho is th in en ( pa ch ) .
in th la fe ye th ha be gr in in th us of ma le cl fo an fm da .
a gr nu of st ha sh th ma le cl ca be us to ex ex ne in fr ne da ( se ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) fo se re ) .
al wi th gr in in an br of ap , th me un th us of cl wi fm ha co ev an ra ( se ( 12 ) fo a hi ov ) .
gi th no of th ap , th ha be fe at to or an in av me in a si pl .
th pr ar st to re th si by pr a tu in to cl me in fm .
ou pr wi be or ar th id th cl - ba an , li tr fm an - ys , ca be ch in te of a se of sp ch ov a se of de po in th an pr , st fr se of th sc qu to be as an en wi ch am te fo hy .
we be by la ou an il ex of a cl - ba an , an th di th an pr , ex th se of ch it im in , an th al av at ea st .
th ha be ot pr fo a st pr fo us cl to an fm da ( e . g .
th wi an em on a si ty of cl an re th us of di re .
we br th id to in se ki of cl an al th us of fe se .
we co wi a di of th so of sc qu th ma be fr ad us cl , an th wa in wh th ch of qu im su an de .
wh po , we di st an we of co op .
ho , it is im to ac fr th ou th rm gr fo su ev ar in ma ca no ye av .
wh po , we oe re ba on th re of fo pr or co em te ( fr ( 12 ) ) .
wh th ar la , we sh so in im dr fr ou ow pe ex wi cl - ba an of fm da .
be en in th di of th an pr , we be in th ne se by br in ma le cl in th ow ri .
12 wh is a cl ?
cl is th an of re wh th va be pr is di , ra th co .
a cl is a fu th ta th va of va fe ( in va or pr , in re ) in an ex ( th se of in va va ) an pr th cl th th ex be to ( th de va ) .
in a ne se , th fe co be vo an th cl co be th ty of st th su wa lo at wh th vo va we re ( se fi 12 ) .
we wi de an ex by th ro ve x = ( x1 .
xv ) an it cl la as y .
a cl ha a nu of pa th ha to be
fi 12 : an ex wh vo ar fe as a ro ve ( le ) an a da as ma of su ve ( ri ) .
le fr tr da a se of ex re fo th pu si to ho re pa ar es us le sq .
th le cl is es a mo of th re be th fe an th cl la in th tr se .
mo fo , gi an ex x , th cl is a fu f th pr th la y = f ( x ) .
on tr th cl ca be us to de wh th fe us co in ab th cl of th ex .
th re is te by us th le cl on a di se of ex , th te da .
in , th id is th , if th cl tr ca th re be fe an cl , it ou to be ab to pr th cl of ex it ha se be .
th ty as fo cl le al is th th tr ( an te ) ex ar in dr fr an ex di wh ju a cl on a te se we ar ob an es of it pe on an te se fr th sa di .
th is de in pa c ) of fi ? ? .
we wi de th tr an te se by xt an xt , ma wi re nt an nt ex as th ro , an th ex la by th co ve yt an yt .
th mo co us me of ho we a cl do on th te se is it ac .
th is si th fr of ex in th te se fo wh th co la wa pr , i . e .
pn , wh i ( f ( xi ) , y ) = 12 if f ( xi ) = yi ( th la of th it ex wa pr co ) or 12 ot .
as we sh di in se 12 , th ar se ty of cl .
ho , fo re th wi be cl , ou em wi be on li cl in th ty th cl fu re on a li co of th fe , i . e .
f ( x ) = g ( w1 + .
+ wv xv ) , an th we wi in th co ar th pa to
12 cl an : an il ex
in th se we wi in an il ex of a cl - ba st , wh wi pr a ba fo
th ex th ga ri to ou da wa de to te th qu of wh th ac as a re of se wo th we ei ki of to or ki of bu co be di by a cl .
12 th su wa sh on wo pe tr an pe th fo ta : th su sh th ab th it an it pr wh th wo wa di ( 12 se ) an cl he mi af ( 12 se of bl sc ) .
th we 12 di it be to ea of th tw ca an 12 ex ep .
in ea ep al 12 it we pr , wi re al 12 ep ha th sa it .
im we ac wi a tr of 12 se , wi vo di 12 12 12 .
th da un a ty fm pr st fr di le us sp ( 12 ) .
th st fo we vo re an sl ac ti co , fo by a vo li de .
a br ma wa ex au an us to re vo co in th su st .
al th or da co se su , we wi fo on a si on .
ea tr wa co in an ex by ta th av im du a 12 se sp wh th su wa th ab th st sh a fe se ea th 12 se co th ex pe of th si du th tr .
ea ex wa th a ve of be 12 an 12 va , fe va , ea co to th 12 se av si at a vo .
in ea av im on be 12 an 12 of th vo we co in th br ma .
us ea tr to ob an ex yi a to of 12 ex
12 ki pr by ro ma an ma ju , ce fo co br im , cm , wh ra th ex .
fi 12 : a cl is le fr th tr se , ex wh la it ca se , an us to pr la fo a te se , ex wh la it ca se .
th pr la ar th co to th tr la an th cl ac co .
fo ea of th to an bu ca .
ea ex ve wa no to ha me 12 an st de 12
ex we fu gr by wh of th si ep th be , as de in fi 12
wi ex in ha , th da wa di in a tr an a te se , wi a go of le a cl wh ta wa to pr th ca of an ex .
as me pr , th pa of a cl ar le fr th ex in th tr se , an th cl is th ev on th ex in a se te se ( se fi 12 ) .
in th ex st we di th da fo on su in ex co fr ei th ev or th od ep , as th in ep 12 , 12 an 12 to be th tr se ( 12 ex ) an th in ep 12 , 12 an 12 to be th te se ( 12 ex ) .
gi th , we tr a ga na ba cl ( se se 12 ) an ap it to th te se .
fo 12 of th ex th la wa pr co .
gi th re , co we co th th cl le fr th tr se wa ca of pr th la of th te se be th ch an , th , th th fm fe co re in ab th st ca ? or co it ju ha do th we on th te se by ch ? in or to te th st si of th re , we co th nu hy th th cl wa pe at ch le ( e . g .
th ac of pr on av wo be 12 ) an te it us th pr we de in se 12 .
fo an ac of 12 wi 12 te ex th te yi a p - va of 12 an th nu hy wa
12 cl an : st an op
th fo ex , th pr as an un na , ca be br do in a se of st , be wi th co of ra da in a se of ex an pr th ch of cl , tr an te se an in of re .
at ea st , th re fa a ch am mu in wh fo we ex ea st an th ch it pr , as we as ho th ch in an ar co by pr fa .
12 cr ex
cr ex in ge re de wh to us as fe , ho to ex th va an wh we wo li to pr .
in ou il ex we ch to av se tr wo of im in a si tr to cr an ex as a si wo st ma to a si tr th is a na ch .
ma ot op ar av , ho .
we co in ha us ea in tr wi a tr as an ex by it , or av ma tr wi wo be to th sa ca in a si ex .
on is no li to us vo as fe .
we co us th av of se vo in on ro as a si fe ( es , th ro be th fe ) or us vo at a pa ti po in a tr .
th la is us in ( 12 ) in a si wh wh di th ac du pr of am an un se is th ti co of ac in va vo ac in bo co .
an po is to fo cr ex di fr th ac si an in do it fr de co im , if ea cl ca be id wi a re .
th qu of wh to us as cl la de on th pu of th re , bu we no th on is no li to us st cl .
on co al us su re or de in fa of a st ( e . g .
di th su ge th ri or wr ? ) .
a pa cr ex of th is th st ( 12 ) , wh th pr is of wh of tw po im a su re pe in a bi ri si .
in cr ex , th is an im tr as wi th nu of ex pr .
th is th tr be ha ma no ex ( e . g .
on pe tr ) or fe , cl on ( e . g .
on of ea cl pe ru ) , as a re of av im in th sa cl .
al th is no ha an fa nu of ex ne to tr a cl , ha mo is ge be , to th de th th cl ca se th th no pr ( wh av el bo no an na va of in ac in th ex be to a cl ) .
ha mo ex he in th tr se si in th so of th cl we co re a ce nu of ex to ob go es of th pa .
co , th ar so cl th ar pa su fo a si wi ve fe ex , an we di th at gr le in se 12 .
fr th te se st , ha mo te ex in th po of th te fo si of th ac ob .
in se 12 we wi in cr - va , a pr th ma ve ec us of ex fo bo tr an te .
on is to be co of is th de of ha th sa nu of ex in ea cl .
wh th is no th ca a cl le al ma te to fo on th mo nu cl , to th de of th ot th wi al ae th in of an ac re ( e . g .
12 ac ma no be ve go in a si wh 12 of 12 ex be to on cl an 12 of 12 to th ot , if it me th cl si pr th mo nu cl by de ) .
th ba be cl ca be ac by us on a su of th ex in th mo nu cl , re th pr fo va su an av
no th us co im as in tr ex sh be av , as th st te au in th si wi vi en th ex ar no in .
in , it al me th ha se ve si ex wi no br in mu ne in .
th do no ba us fr us co im in th te se , de on th pu ( se se 12 fo an ex wh tr ex co fr bl da an te ex fr ev - re da ) .
no - in te ex ca , ho , be us fo th si te de ea ( th bi di ou is th su of th re of in be tr ) .
gi th th ar ge ma mo fe th ex , it is of ad to re th nu of fe co to fo on a su of pa in th is ca fe se .
fo in , if us vo as fe , we ma ju wa th vo in a pa re of in ( ro ) or th va at a pa po in a tr .
th cr is to ke in mi is th th ch of fe at th st mu no de on th la th wi be us to tr a cl .
to se wh , im a si wh we ar in in pr th or of a st gr .
it is ac to re th vo co to th in vi co , de an .
it is al ac to re th fu to th sh so ac du ta tr re to a ba .
wh is no ac to se vo th ap to di on or fr an in th en da .
th re fo th is th it is a su fo of le th te se in ae th le of th cl in th tr se , an it le to op ac es .
lo at th la fo th en da is so ca pe , no th th do no me th th cl la ca be us at al in fe se .
th ca be us on th da ha be di in tr an te se , co so th tr se , an we di al pr as of do it in se 12 . 12
an al pa to re th nu of fe a cl ha to co is di re us a me su as si va de / pr co an ( 12 ) or in co - po an ( 12 ) on th en da ma ( ro ar ex , co ar fe ) .
th co be th me is th th tr th or fe sp ( e . g .
vo ) in a ne , lo - di fe sp , yi a ne da ma wi th sa nu of ro an a sm nu of co .
th is al wo tr an a ne st fo pa cl , as we wi se in se 12 , bu no at al gu to im re , pa be mo di re te ig cl la in th cr ( th se sv ( 12 ) an pl ( 12 ) ) .
a na is to co in th co of ex is th of pr .
by th we do no me th us pr of da , e . g .
mo co or de , a to co in gr de in ( 12 ) .
we me , ra , th do on th ex , co as a ma wi n ro ( wh ea ro is an ex ) an v co ( fe ) .
in th ex st , we no ea ex ( ro ) to ha me 12 an st de 12
th id in th ca is to re th ee of la , im - wi si ch .
an po wo be to no ea fe ( co ) to ha me 12 an st de 12 , ei ac th en ex or wi ex co fr th sa ru .
th is wo co if th is a ch th so vo wi ha mu wi va in si am th ot .
al a li cl ca in
pr co fo th to so de by sc th co fo ea vo , th ar si wh it wi no an th th no wi he .
ou ow ex su ei ro or co no is ge be an sh be tr in tu , wh co th ma so ha ad ee .
12 ch a cl
ea we in th id of a cl as a fu f th ta an ex x an ge a cl la pr y = f ( x ) .
th sp ki of fu be le an th as bu in it is wh di th va ty of cl .
in th se we re an co th cl mo co us wi fm da , as we as th fa at st in ch wh ki to us .
we su mu ad de in ap a .
th si cl pr is ca ne - ne an it do ev in ex le a cl fu .
cl of a te ex is do by nd th tr se ex th is mo si to it by so me ( e . g .
lo eu di , co th en fe ve ) an as th la of th ne ne to th te ex .
va of th id in av al th tr se ex in ea cl in a si cl pr ex or as th ma la in th k - ne ne ( k od ) .
bo va mi th ee of no ( if th ex of di cl ar al re cl to ea ot ) bu ca be su to de so in if th is ac no - no va in th ex in ea cl ( e . g .
ex in on cl co in tw cl th ar re di to ea ot ) .
wh ne - ne cl ca wo ve we if th is a sm nu of fe , it mo li wi no in a si wh th is a la nu an on a fe ar in .
he it is ge us in co wi so fo of fe se , as in ( 12 ) or ( 12 ) .
cl th do le an ac fu di in wh ar ca di an ge mo .
in th fo , a pr fu wi a gi pa fo is le di fr th tr da by se it pa .
in th la , wh is le is es a st mo th co ge an ex be to a pa cl ( i . e .
it mo th di of fe va co on ex cl , p ( x| = a ) an p ( x| = b ) ) , wh is th in vi ba ru to cl ( i . e .
yi p ( y = a| ) an p ( y = b| ) , an th pr is th cl fo wh th pr is la ) .
in th ty fm st , we ge ha ma mo fe th ex if us vo in th wh br as fe , it no un to ha a fe te of ex an te of th of fe ( or at le a fe hu , if us fe se as de in se 12 . 12 ) .
th ee of th is th it wi ge be po to nd a fu th ca cl th ex in th tr se we , wi th ne me th it wi do we in th te se ( fo a mo de ex of th re wh se ( 12 ) ) : th ph is ca ov 12
on wa of tr to av ov is to us as si a fu as po th do we in th tr se .
th mo na ch fo a si fu is to ha th pr de on a li co of th fe th ca da or in th in of ea on of th , ju as li re .
to ma th id of a li cl mo co , th cl is pa by a se of we w an , fo an ex x wi v fe
xw = x1 + .
+ xv wv
th cl pr cl a if xw > 12 or cl b if xw < 12 ( wi ti br ra ) .
on ni pr of li cl , be th si , is th fa th ea fe ae th pr so vi it we an wi in wi ot fe , gi us a me of it in on th pr .
we di wa to us th , as we as so ca , in se 12 .
a mo ge in fo th is gi in fi 12 , in a ra si tw vo br , wi th ex of ea cl ( ea ex is ch by th va of th tw vo ) .
le a li cl is eq to le a li th se po in th tw cl as we as po , th de bo .
ex of cl th le th ar lo re ( lr ) an li su ve ma ( sv ) .
wh th mi se re fr th ge mo id in ea , th cl de of ga na ba ( gn ) an fi li di an ( ld ) ca be ex in th ma as we , an th pr in in th li cl ca .
no th th ar ma po li di th pe cl th si tr ex sh in fi 12
th va cl ha di ra fo ch am th , wh co to di de of se po as we as po .
co al th , ev fo a sp ty of cl , th ma st be ma po se of it pa th le to eq go pr in th tr se .
th pr of gu th pr th se th pa to a so wi de pr sm we ov , fo in is ca
12 ex of th wo be to us a ve hi - de po to mo po in a ti se co fr a lo - de po wi ad no .
th ve hi - de po wo li be wo at ap ne po th a lo - de
li di a
li di b
cr - va fo 12
cr - va fo 12
fi 12 : le : le a li cl is eq to le a li th se ex in th tw cl ( ve in a 12 - vo br ) as we as po .
ri : du cr - va ea of 12 gr of ex ta a tu as th te se wh th re se as th tr se .
re .
bo th ra an th wa re is do fo th va ki of cl ar de in ap a .
al th br us to th qu of wh cl to us , wh we wi at to an ba on ou ex an a mu - st co of cl an fe se me ( 12 ) .
in ca wh th ar a la nu of fe ( e . g .
al th vo in th co ) , gn is ge in to lr an li sv , as th re in th la cl he we do th ee of no fe th ar hi co wi ea ot .
th di mo di if us fe se , he gn is a us cl fo pr th ne to be re ma ti , su as pe te , du to be mu fa to tr th th ot .
ld ne to be us ei in co wi ex fe se or wi di re ( ( 12 ) ) , as ot th ar ty no en ex to es it co ma re .
if ch be lr an li sv , th ar ro eq ot th fo th fa th th rs le it mo na to ca wh th ar mo th tw cl .
so fa , an fo th sa of si , we ha di cl in a si wh ex be to on of tw cl bu , in ge , we mi ha mo ( se di st cl , su re , et ) .
mo of th cl de ab wo wi mo in a mu cl sc .
th on ex ar th sv cl al mu ve do ex , mo pa in cu us re yo to cr se tw cl pr ( e . g .
ea cl ve al th ot , or al pa of cl ) an co th to pr a mu cl de .
we de so ap to do th in ap a .
th sa , of th ob of in in a mu cl si is no so mu th ra ac ( do we be th hu of ty of ob st wo be di ba on fm ac , fo in ? ) as wh cl ca be di fr wh ot , an ho .
he , it mi ma mo se to co al pa of cl , tr an te a cl fo ea pa di an pr wh is ca a co ma , a #c #c ma wh en ( i , j ) co th ac of th di be cl i an j .
of th re gr of cl th ar ha to di fr ea ot bu th ar di fr an gr ( e . g .
se sm ob st ve an an hu fa ) .
th ar mo co cl , su as no sv or ar ne ne , wh ca le in - ti be fe an no fu th dr th pr we wi no di th at le fo tw ma re .
th rs is th it is un th th pr a si ad in pr pe re to li cl ( in ex st or th mu - st co in ( 12 ) ) .
in ou op th is mo a re of th fa th th nu of ex av is so sm th of th in of co re be fe .
th se re is th th re be fe an th pr be ha to in ( th se ( 12 ) wh de a cl ta fr th hi la no ac in a ne ne , fo in ) .
th do me th th cl ca be us fr wh th nu of fe is sm , in pa wh do in ma as di in se 12 .
we de th cl an th re to li cl in mo de ap a .
12 tr an te in cr - va
in ou il ex we di th da in tw ha , on us fo tr an th ot fo te .
as we la di , we wo li to tr a cl wi as mu da as po sa , we ca tr an te on th sa da if th go is ob a us es of th cl tr ac , i . e .
th pr th it wo la an fu te ex co .
fu , us ju a fe ex fo te wi no le to a go es : it wi be in va , as we as co to a fe po va .
sp th da in ha to ha mo te ex , as we di in th ex st , me we mi be le a mu wo cl th we po co wi mo tr ex .
fo , th is a pr th al us to ha ou ca an ea ( al ) al of it to . . .
th pr is ca cr - va .
in it mo ex va , cr - va fo th st :
le on ex ou , tr on th re on , ma a pr fo th ex re fo ea ex in tu co th ac of th pr ma fo al th ex
th va is ca le - on - ou cr - va .
al ea cl tr is te di , on ca ex th to be si an pr si , si th sh so mu tr da .
he we tr th ac es ob in th ma as th ex ac of a cl tr on a da wi al bu on ex , fo ( 12 ) .
no th al pr a sl co es of th ac we ex if we we to tr a cl us al th av ex .
in pr , le ea ex ou ca be co ex be in of a si cl we ar tr as ma cl as th ar ex .
on co is a pr ca a k - fo cr - va , wh k is th nu of pa in wh th da is di co ch ar k = 12 or k = 12 , co to le ou 12 or 12 of th ex on ea fo .
fo , fm da ar of na di in a wa th ad al th is , be it in ru or ep wi a ru wh al th po cl or st ap .
ou il da di na in si gr , co to th si ep of st in th ex ea gr is us in tu as th te se in cr - va , wi th re gr us as th tr se ( on th ri of fi 12 ) .
he we ad th re to ta ad of th na di at le on a rs at , po mo to a ne gr di th st ha th de pr if mo tr ex ar ne .
as fr th nu of ex le ou th ar ot im co .
th rs is th th tr da in ea fo mu co ex of al cl , as ot th cl fo th fo wi no be ab to pr th ab on .
as me ea , cl sh be ba , i . e .
ha ro th sa nu of ex .
fu , ex th ar co - by be cl in ti , fo in - sh en up in th sa fo .
ot , th cl ma be ab to pr ac fo te ex wi a co co in th tr se .
12 . 12 fe se
in se 12 we in th id of fe se , in si wh we ha so a pr re fo pi th , e . g .
wi to te wh vo in a pa ro ha in .
fe se is of de ne in or to tr cl in do wh da ha ve la nu of fe .
wh mi it he ? in , th go is to re th ra of fe to ex de th ch of ov as we as to ge ri of un fe to le th cl fo on in on .
al al th fm de re re in th li us ei fe se or so ot fo of di re ( ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) .
fe se in ge is to va a to to br in gr de he , bu a us re of bo te an th th of va ap is gi in ( ( 12 ) ) .
on di of ma is be sc / lt an wr me .
th fo in ra th fe by a gi cr - ea fe is sc by it , a bi li a un te of a vo - an se th be in th ra .
th la co br of pi ne fe by ho mu im th ha on th cl gi th fe al se .
th ca be do by re tr an ap th cl in cr - va wi th tr se .
gi th of pr co ex of wr me du to th la nu of fe we wi be co so wi fe sc me .
th ar se ge me fo se in fe .
in pa , fe in th fm do ar of vo an th is a de to be ab to lo fo ce ty of vo be , e . g .
is a vo ve se fo on pa co or di be tw gr of co .
he mo ex pa re to me th dr fr bo th so , wh we su be .
no th me
nu of vo
ta 12 : cl re us ea of se se me wi ei va xe nu of vo ( le ) or wi th nu de us ne cr - va ( nc ) in th tr se of ea fo ( ri ) .
ra ar de in te of vo an co ( cl ) , fo cl , bu co be ad fo ot ki of fe :
ac - th me se vo th ar ac in at le on co re to a co - ta ba , sc a vo as me by a t - te on th di in me ac le be co
ac - th me sc a vo by ho ac a ga ba cl ca pr th co of ea ex in th tr se , ba on on th vo .
it do a cr - va wi th tr se fo th vo an th ac is th vo sc .
se ac - th sa as ac , bu in of us th da fr a si vo ( gn cl wi on fe ) we us th da fr th vo an it im ad ne in th di ( a cl wi up to 12 fe , cl ca be gn , ld or sv ) .
an - th me lo fo vo wh th ar re di in me va ac co
a is di fr b c d , or ab fr cd , et ) , as me by an an .
st - th me pi vo th re to th va co co ac cr - va gr in th tr se ( e . g .
if th me va in a is le th b an gr th c , is th re in
pr de of ho th me ca be im an ot al ar pr in ap b .
no th th me ab ar , wi ex of se ac , un .
th ar pr re th sh th , in so ci , mu fe se ca wo be , wh ar di in se 12
fi , th me li ab pr ra of vo on mi st ha to de on ho ma of th to - ra vo to us fr th ra fo ea me .
fo me th ar ba on a st cr ( e . g .
t - te of ac ) , it is co to us a mu co cr su as bo or fa di ra ( 12 ) an ke ju th fe de si at a gi le .
th is re bu pr if fe or no vo ar si ( po gi th am of no an ve sm sa si ) or th sc pr by th me do no ma to a p - va ( th no me ca st be us to ob on , se ap c ) .
12 . 12 fe se an cr - va
up ti no we ha di fe se as a to by it .
of , ho , fe se is us in co wi cr - va an th en pa pr .
th rs is th se mu ha on th tr se .
as me ea , fo ev fo in cr - va we ha a di tr se an th fe ha to be se se fo ea fo .
a se re is th , as me ea , th me us in pr ra fe an we st ha to de ho ma to us , un th me pr a ra ( e . g .
th nu of vo wh a t - te is si at a ce le ) .
a ty ap is to no co to a sp nu , bu to in pr a fe ra by ea me fo ea fo .
th ca th be us to ob , fo ea me , an ac sc us ea of th nu of vo de ( e . g .
to 12 , to 12 , to 12 , et ) .
th en pr is a #m #v ta of ac re , su as ta 12 ( le ) fo ou
if fe se co be do pr to cr - va ( e . g .
by se vo fr on ro , or by so ot me th av ex th la of th te ex ) , th wh pr ca be ru as if th da co on th se fe .
in th an th ca wh th me de th nu of fe , th en pr is a #m 12 ve of ac re .
an al to co al nu of vo is to le th tr se in ea cr - va su wh nu to pi .
to do th , we ca ru a ne cr - va ( nc ) in th tr se .
co ou il ex , wh ha 12 gr of ex ba on ep .
du th rs cr - va fo ,
we te on gr 12 an tr on gr 12 - 12
us a ne cr - va me pe th cr - va pr de ab in gr 12 - 12 by te on 12 an tr on 12 - 12 , th te on 12 wh tr on 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , et .
th re fo th tr se is , ag , #m #v ta of re .
fo ea me , th ta wi yi th nu of vo at wh th ac is hi th is th nu th wi be se fr th ra pr fr gr 12 - 12
th en pr is a #m 12 ve of ac re , as sh in ta 12 ( ri ) fo ou sa da .
12 ev re
th pe tr a cl on fm da is co wi es th a va of in ca be de fr it , i . e .
a cl ca be tr wh tr ac is be th th of a cl de at ra .
a si re is th on wh on ca re th nu hy th th is no in ab th va of in .
es si is ge do by de ho im a cl re wo be we th nu hy to be tr ( th pr is ca a p - va ) .
th ac on th te se is an es of th tr ac of th cl .
fo , th is th pr th it wi co la a ne ex dr at ra fr th sa di th th ot ex ca fr it ca al be vi as th ac on wo ge if on ha an in nu of ex in th te se .
he , ho go an es it is de on th si of th te se .
it is an un es be th te ex ha no be se by th cl du tr .
in th si th pr of ob th re un th nu hy is ea to ca .
it ca be vi as th ou of to a co fo ea of th ex to be cl , wi th co bi re th pr of la an ex co by ch ( 12 in a tw cl pr , 12 in a fo cl pr , et ) .
th , th p - va un th nu hy of k co la te ex is , if we de x to be th nu of co la ex , si p ( x k ) un a bi di wi n tr an pr of su 12 ( tw cl ) , 12 ( fo cl ) , et if th p - va is be a ce th ( ty 12 or 12 ) th re wi be de si .
th ac es ob th cr - va is a co of re pr by cl tr on mo ov tr se , he we wi tr th es as if it ca fr a si cl , fo co pr ( 12 ) .
th al us to te it in ex th sa wa .
ex th si te to mu , in re is st , in th on ca si re to a mu co co cr an ad th si th ac .
th is th si we ha wh we co th ne cr - va ( nc ) re , as ea on is th pr of tr a cl us vo se wi a di me .
if , in , we ar ju pr a #m #v ta of re , we co us th sa ap to si te al th re in th ta .
th wo , ho , be co , in th th re fo a gi me ar co to so ex th fo fr th fa th th ha th vo us by th cl ba on th to 12 vo ar al us by th on ba on th to 12 , sa .
a co id to de wi th is is to se th ma re am al th ob us a pa se me ( a ta ro ) ; it is of ac by th mi of te th ma re fo si in th wa de .
to se wh th ca be a pr , co a si wh th cl ar us di nu of fe an , in ea ca , ha a tr ac ( ov th un ex di ) of 12 .
it is po ev in th si th , at le fo on nu of fe , th ex ob ac wi be fa hi th be mo li th sm th da is .
if we ar ju de th be nu of fe to be th on at wh th ma ac is at , we wo pi th re an po de it si .
he on po is to re th en ta an th nu of ex us , an co fo al of th , at th ri of be co .
th ot po is to re th ma ac re an te it di us a pe te , as fo .
as th is no cl in in th da , th la ca be pe wi al th ex ac us a gi cl an nu of fe ( th wo be ch le ) .
th is ex th ki of si wh on ca us a pe te , by re th en pr of pr a re ta fr a da wi pe la ( se ( 12 ) , wh re th us of pe te in cl wi on fu ne ap , an al ap c fo mo de ) .
ov ma pe th yi a sa of ac re fo ea ce in th ta un th nu hy bu al , mo im , fo an de me su as th ma of ea ta ro .
th p - va un th nu hy fo ea en of th or re ta is th fr of th co sa th is gr th or eq to it , an th ap to th ma as we .
th ma pr of re to th ap is it co
12 ap of pa cl
we ha be tr a cl - ba an as a se of st wi ch at ea st .
on ch th we ha no ye di ad is pe th mo im : th ch of th in sc qu to be an .
ou fo so fa ha be on th us of cl fo pa di .
he , th ba qu be ad is si wh fm da ca in ab a gi va of in .
de th an to th qu is of in , fo ex , in cl di or li de ( 12 ) .
we ca vi tr un me as an th qu on a vo by vo or ro by ro ba .
cl br to th qu an in in se of de , bo by po in ac ma vo bu al by re co on sp co or th ne fo vo re to be si .
in ad to th qu of wh fm da ca cl in , th ar at le tw ot ba qu to wh cl ca be ap , na wh or wh is cl in re ( pa lo ) , ho is cl in en an ho do it en re to kn re be st ( pa ch ) .
th se ex th ex to wh qu th qu ca be ta us th ma of li cl an fe se , as we as th li an ca .
fo th re of th se we wi as fe ar vo , as it wi si di .
12 pa lo
on it ha be es th cl in is pr in a da , on ma go on to as wh in th br th in re .
a na ap fo ad th is to as wh vo co mo st an re to th cl su .
th ar tw as to th : de wh vo ar be se an al ho th we ae th cl pr .
wh cr - va is be us , a pa vo se me ca an ve li wi ra di vo at th to fr fo to fo .
it ma co as a su th , fo ma da , th ov be th se of vo se in al fo ve th se se in an in fo is fa sm ( be 12 12 an 12 is ty ) ev if se a re la fr of th to nu of vo ( 12 ) .
th is no a pr , in , it ju re th fa th wh vo ar se co su in .
th mi be re , in th ma vo en th sa th an a fe ge pi in ea fo , an th mi be a sm ne su , pr in al fo .
on po st fo nd th ma su of vo co in wo be to st fr th on pr in al or al al fo an us th as se in a cl al th wo nd vo wi si re pr ac ex .
a re is is wh th in ca by vo is th sa in th se id by va se me .
th ar tw wa of co th is : on is to lo at ov in se se , no be me , an th ot to co wh a gi cl us di vo se pe di ( in pa , wh it ma di pr er ) .
fo pr wi tw cl , mo se cr wi nd si vo , as th ar ma wa th a vo co re di to th tw cl .
in mu pr re su th ar di ty of vo be an th va vo se me de ea ca pi on di ty ( 12 ) .
he , if we wi to us cl pr su as an in th th vo se it us co in vo , it is wi to co di se me it is al a go id to de wh th is an ov be th vo se se in al fo by ea me .
gi a se of vo , a di qu is wh of th vo mo st ae cl pr .
th us of li cl ma it re si to an th qu , as ea vo ae th de on th th ma of it we , an no th th in wi ot vo .
ap a ex ho to ge th we fo th va li cl , as we as fo ne ne cl wi pa di me ( al in th ca th we ar te ex sp , ra th th sa fo an ex ) , an al sh wh a ty im of vo we lo li .
no th yo ca ta th fu by mu th we by th av ex of ea cl , gi yo cl - sp im .
a pr is if us cr - va is th , ag , we ha a di se of vo an th a di cl in ea fo .
a he ap is to gr al th vo th we se in at le on of th fo an ru th cr - va ag on th se if th ac is co to wh wa ob wi th or cr - va , th cl we ca be av ac fo an co .
al , if th ac us al th vo av is hi mo co in pr wi fe cl - we ca ju co th we ov al th vo .
on po to be aw co li cl is th th re fo lr or li sv wi ca th we on co vo to go do pr to th nu of co vo .
th is be wh th co is mo dr by a no so an is th re wh , in ge , bo ty of cl ou gn if al vo ar us ( 12 ) ( th no if co wi vo se ) .
ho , it is qu
cl ac at ea vo us va cl
cl we fo a li sv tr on th en im
fi 12 : to : co of ac ma ob wi 12 - fo cr - va .
ea ro co ei sl fr an ac ma , in to su , to of ea sl is po .
th cl us in ea ro ar si vo gn an ra 12 ne se gn , ld an li sv .
on to of ea sl is th nu of vo fo wh ac wa de si us fd q = 12 , wh ar hi in da re .
bo : cl we fo a li sv cl tr on th en im .
po th th wi be vo th co to th de bu wh we ar sm th th of ot vo co vo .
no th , in ad to as wh cl in is pr , we ca al as wh cl ar re te as op to sp lo .
th di le co in th li an ap in tw di gu .
th rs is to ei se a fe sp co to vo at al ti po in a tr or si re th ti po da is ex fr , as in ( 12 ) or ( 12 ) .
a mo so ap is us in ( 12 ) , wh cl ar tr on da wh cl ar cl se be bl an th de as se of em of cl - sp pa in ev - re te da .
th is ou ma lo of in to sp vo le st th on mi wi an , fu , th us of li cl me th no no re be vo ca be le .
th is , ho , an al ap to an th lo qu , in - ba fu br ma ( 12 ) , wh ca am th pr an al ad ch qu to so ex .
a ge ve of th id ca be su as tr cl on ma sm vo se wh , pu to , co th wh br .
on na ca fo th is to tr a di cl fo ea vo , us on th vo sp ad to it .
th is ak to sh a se on ev vo ne in su , an is of re to as tr se cl .
co va fo th cl ar ve of ga cl ( gn , ld ) or li sv ( th or pa us th ma di , wh is pa of th mu ga di in ld ) .
th re is a br ma wh , fo ev vo , we ha th cr - va ac of a cl tr on th ne su it ( ty , th 12 ne in 12 , al a wi ra co be co ) .
th ac ca be co in a p - va us th an me in se ? ? or by us a pe te as de in se 12 .
in ei ca , we wi ob a p - va ma th ca be th us a mu co co cr , to id vo ne of si ac .
we ag ha a ch of wh cl to us , al in th ca th tr ar di .
gi th re sm nu of vo in a ne , it is no fe to tr mo co cl .
ld is th rs ob ch , in th a co ma of vo ca re be th , bu on co al at a no cl if mo co re ar hy .
th wi po be mo ad if th ar mo th tw cl , al wi th ca th it is un th ac di al th cl fr ea ot ca be fo in a sm re .
we pr a co of si vo gn an se gn , ld an li sv in fi 12 fo ou il st .
wh th ar re si in th lo of vo de si in , th ar al in di be th ma wh we di in ap b .
fo re , th gu al pr th we of a li sv cl on ea vo .
12 pa ch
be as wh an wh cl in is re , cl ca al be us to an th qu of ho cl ar re in th br .
it is pe he th cl an ot ma le me st to be of gr va .
th wo on in ma in th pr se ca al be co fr th po of vi of pa ch .
ea ne cl at to nd re be th vo in a sm se th co in .
as sa ea , gi th sm nu of vo , we ha th po of tr no cl to le fa co re .
bu ju ho co sh on ex th re to be ? on ex in th ra of an is th si in ( 12 ) , wh vo ar ba mo se to on cl of st th an , an th do no re an en of th st .
th is no ad in tr a cl th do mo th we a vo of ea vo to po in .
th ot ex is wh ( 12 ) ca a co co : th in is in th co co of vo ac in di cl .
in be li si wh vo ha ve se re ( e . g .
ff or pp in ( 12 ) ) or vo ar se fo gr of cl ( e . g .
se ca cl th co to an th ve th th do no ) .
th fa , we ch to de th wo do re to li cl or in ma , bo be it is si an a go st po to ad ch qu .
th ar , ho , se re pa th ta th ki of qu in mo so wa th el a un vi , an he we wi co th on br .
th co po be th ar th wi to co re be st wi th in fm da , ei de an ac ch cl to re do in , su as su as mo of ne po be or ps di of th st sp .
on th rs ca , ( 12 ) sh th a ne ne tr to di ex of ei se ca le a re on it hi la th ca a pl ta of th cl an ( 12 ) ,
on th sa da , th th ab to di th ca st co wi th ab of th cl to di th co cl .
( 12 ) sh th th th si ma of ph st co to th si ma of pa of ac wh pr th an ( 12 ) re pe si of st to th st of th ne re .
( 12 ) in hi pr mo , a te to id mu co pr pr si in th br wi ov sp ac , ta ad of do in an cl la to co th ca or .
fi , tw re st le do kn to pr fm ac fo ne st , so wh ca be us to cl by co th pr ac to th ac of st in th tr ( 12 ) do th fo vi st , us a mo of th re of ne po in th vi co an pr th fm si fr th mo po fo ea vo .
( 12 ) le a mo th pr fm ac fo ne wo , ba on th si in a sp of se fe to wo fo wh fm ac is kn .
in th pa we ha de th va st in a ma le cl an of fm da .
as fr di th ch av at ea an st , th in an th pr fa co th , we ex th us of th ki of an to an th ty of sc qu .
th ar is th in ab a va of in ( pa di ) , wh is th in ( pa lo ) an ho is th in en ( pa ch ) .
we pu fo on li cl an th di an lo qu , as th ar bo be un an th on mo re ar li to wa to an rs .
sp co me th so im pr co ha to be le ou of th ma te .
va ap ar pr in a lo ve of th pa av at ht : / / ww . cs . cm . ed / ~ fp / re . ht .
so fo pe a cl an ( th pr mu - vo pa an to ) ca be fo at ht : / / ww . cs . pr . ed / mv , to wi tu an a ve re on co .
we ar we aw th th cu fr of re is in pa ch , an pr po to wh we th so of th mo th - pr wo in th ar .
we ar co th , re of wh pr ma co , it wi ha ma le me at it ro , cl - ba or ot .
