it is oft use to cla ema acc - ing to the int of the sen ( e . g . , " pro - pos a mee " , " del inf " ) .
we pre exp res in lea - ing to cla ema in thi fas , whe eac cla cor to a ver - nou pai tak fro a pre ont - ogy des typ ema spe act .
we dem tha , alt thi cat pro is qui dif - fer fro top tex cla , cer cat of mes can non - the be det wit hig pre ( abo 123 ) and rea rec ( abo 123 ) usi exi tex - cla lea met .
thi res sug tha use tas - tra too cou be con bas on aut cla - cat int thi tax .
met whi cou be use to par aut - mat thi sor of act tra .
a hyp exa of an ema ass tha wor alo the lin is sho in fig 123
do you hav any sam sch - rel ema we cou use as dat ? - ste
sur , ill put som tog
fre , can you col the msg fro the csp cor tag w / the mee nou , asa ? - bil
ass ann : new ema req , pri
ass : sho i add thi new com to you to -
ass : not out req , may tak act if no ans is rec pro .
yes , i can get to tha in the nex few day .
is nex mon ok ? - fre
ass : not inc com .
sho i sen fre a rem on mon ?
fig 123 - dia wit a hyp ema ass tha aut det ema spe act .
das box ind out mes .
( mes hav bee edi for spa and ano . )
in thi pap we dis usi mac lea - ing met to cla ema acc to the int of the sen .
in par , we cla ema acc to an ont of ver ( e . g . , pro , com , del ) and nou ( e . g . , inf - mat , mee , tas ) , whi joi des the ema spe act int by the ema sen .
a met for acc cla of ema int suc cat wou hav man pot ben .
for ins , it cou be use to hel an ema use tra the sta of ong joi act - tie .
del and coo of joi tas is a tim - con and err - pro act , and the cos of err is hig : it is not unc tha com are for , dea are mis , and opp are was bec of a fai to pro tra , del , and pri sub - tas .
the cla met we con
123 rel wor
our res bui on ear wor def il - loc poi of spe act ( sea , 123 ) , and rel suc spe act to ema and wor - flo tra ( win , 123 , flo & lud - low , 123 , wei et al , 123 ) .
win sug tha res exp the spe - act bas lan - act per on hum com cou be use to bui mor use - ful too for coo joi act .
the coo ( win , 123 ) was one suc sys - tem , in whi use aug ema mes wit add ann ind int .
whi suc sys hav bee use in lim - ite con , the hav als bee cri as cum : by for use to con to a par for sys , the con com - nic and mak it les nat ( sch , 123 ) ; in sho , use oft pre uns ema int ( cam et al .
123 ) .
we not tha
the dif are avo if mes can be aut ann by int , rat tha sol a sta of int fro the use .
mur et al .
( 123 ) pro an ema an - not sch bro sim to our , cal a del tre , and an alg for con - str del tre aut , but the app was not qua eva .
the app is bas on rec a set of han - cod lin clu .
a lim of the app is tha the han - cod lin clu are lan - spe ( and in fac lim to jap tex . )
pri res on mac lea for tex cla has pri con cla - tio of doc by top ( lew , 123 yan , 123 ) , but als has add sen det ( pan et al . , 123 wei et al . , 123 ) and au - tho att ( e . g . , arg et al , 123 ) .
the has bee som pre use of mac lea to cla ema mes ( coh 123 sah et al . , 123 ren , 123 seg & kep , 123 ) .
how , to our kno , non of the sys has inv lea met for ass ema spe act .
ins , ema is gen cla int fol ( i . e . , ac - cor to top ) or acc to whe or not it is spa .
lea sys hav bee pre - to aut det act con spe ( e . g .
fin et al . , 123 ) .
123 an ont of ema act
our ont of nou and ver cov som of the pos spe act ass wit ema is sum in fig 123
we ass tha a sin ema mes may con mul act , and tha eac act is des by a ver - nou pai dra fro thi ont ( e . g . , " del dat " ) .
the und nod in the fig ind the nou and ver for whi we hav tra cla - sif ( as dis in sub sec ) .
to def the nou and ver ont of fig 123 , we fir exa ema fro sev cor ( inc our own inb ) to fin reg - lar , and the per a mor det ana of one cor .
the ont was fur ref in the pro of lab the cor de -
in ref thi ont , we ado sev pri .
fir , we bel tha it is mor imp -
tan for the ont to ref obs lin beh tha to ref any abs vie of the spa of pos spe act .
as a con , the tax of ver con con tha are ato lin , but com sev ill - tio poi .
( for exa , the lin uni " let ' s do lun " is bot dir , as it req the rec , and com , as it imp com - mit the sen .
in our tax thi is a sin ' pro ' act . ) als , act whi are abs pos but not obs in our dat are not rep - res ( for ins , dec ) .
fig 123 tax
sec , we bel tha the tax mus re - fle com non - lin use of ema , suc as the use of ema as a mec to del fil .
we hav gro thi wit the lin sim spe act of del inf .
the ver in fig 123 are def as fol .
a req ask ( or ord ) the rec to per - for som act .
a que is als con a req ( for del of inf ) .
a pro mes pro a joi act , i . e . , ask the rec to per som act and com the sen as wel , pro the re - cip agr to the req .
a typ exa is an ema sug a joi mee .
an ame mes ame an ear pro .
lik a pro , the mes inv bot a com and a req .
how , whi a pro is ass wit a new tas , an ame is a sug mod of an
a com mes com the sen to som fut cou of act , or con the sen ' int to com wit som pre des cou of act .
a del mes del som , e . g . , som inf , a pow pre , the url of a web , the ans to a que , a mes sen " fyi , or an opi .
the ref , gre , and rem ver occ ver inf in our dat , and hen we did not att to lea cla for the ( in thi ini stu ) .
the pri rea for res our in thi way was our exp tha hum ann wou be slo and les rel - abl if giv a mor com tax .
the nou in fig 123 con pos ob - jec for the ema spe act ver .
the nou fal int two bro cat .
inf nou are ass wit ema spe act des by the ver del , re - min and ame , in whi the ema exp con inf .
we als ass inf - tio nou wit the ver req , whe the ema con ins a des of the nee inf ( e . g . , " ple sen you bir . " ver " my bir is " .
the req act is act for a ' del inf ' act ) .
in - for inc dat bel to be fac as wel as opi , and als att dat fil .
act nou are gen ass wit ema spe act des by the ver pro - pos , req , com , and ref .
act inc mee , as wel as lon ter act suc as com mem .
not eve ema spe act is its an ac - tiv .
the <ve nod in fig 123 ind - cat tha any ema spe act can als ser as
the nou ass wit som oth ema spe act .
for exa , jus as ( del inf - mat ) is a leg spe act , so is ( com ( del inf ) ) .
aut con - ing suc nes spe act is an int and dif top how , in the cur pap we con onl the pro of det top - lev the ver for suc com spe act .
for ins , for a mes con a ( com ( del inf ) ) our goa wou be to aut det the com ver but not the inn ( del inf ) com nou .
123 cat res
alt ema is ubi , lar and rea - tic ema cor are rar ava for res pur .
the lim ava is lar due to pri iss : for ins , in mos us aca - dem ins , a use ema can onl be dis - tri to res if all sen of the ema als pro exp wri con .
the ema cor use in our exp con of fou dif ema dat col fro wor gro who sig agr to mak the ema acc to res .
the fir thr dat , n12 , n12 , and n12 are ann sub of a lar cor , the csp ema cor , whi con app - mat 123 , 123 ema mes col fro a man cou at car mel uni - sit .
in thi cou , 123 mba stu , org in app 123 tea of fou to six mem - ber , ran sim com in dif mar sce ove a 123 - wee per ( kra et al . ) .
n12 , n12 and n12 are col of all ema mes wri by par fro thr dif tea , and con 123 , 123 and 123 dif ema mes res .
the fou dat , the pw cal cor , was gen dur a fou - day exe con at sri spe to gen an ema cor .
dur thi tim a gro of six peo ass dif wor rol ( e . g .
pro lea , fin man , res , adm ass , etc ) and per a num of gro act .
the are 123 ema mes in thi cor .
the ema cor are all tas - rel , and ass wit a sma wor gro , so it is not sur tha the con man ins of the ema act des abo ins , the csp cor con an ave of abo 123 ema ver per mes .
inf ana of oth per inb sug tha thi sor of ema is com for man uni use .
we bel tha neg of sha tas is a cen - tra use of ema in man wor env .
all mes wer pre by rem quo mat , att , and non - sub hea inf .
thi pre was per - for man , but was lim to ope whi can be rel aut .
the mos dif - cul ste is rem of quo mat , whi we add els ( car & coh , 123 ) .
eac mes may be ann wit sev lab , as it may con sev spe act .
to eva int - ann agr , we dou - lab n12 for the ver del , com , req , ame , and pro , and the nou , mee , and com the kap sta ( car - let , 123 ) for eac of the , def as
whe a is the emp pro of agr on a cat , and r is the pro of agr - men for two ann tha lab doc at ran ( wit the emp obs fre of eac lab ) .
hen kap ran fro - 123 to +12
the res in tab 123 sho tha agr is goo , but not per .
tab 123 - int - ann agr on n12
too dou - ann mes whi had onl a sin ver lab and con - str the 123 - cla con mat for the two ann sho in tab 123
not kap val
are som hig for the sho one - act mes -
tab 123 - int - ann agr on doc wit onl one cat .
123 lea of cat
rep of doc .
to ass the typ of mes fea tha are mos imp for pre , we ado sup vec ma - chi ( joa , 123 ) as our bas lea met , and a tfi - wei bag - of - wor as a bas rep for mes .
we the con a ser of exp wit the n12 cor onl to exp the eff of dif -
nf1 and nf1 all use fea
tab 123 f12 for dif fea set .
we not tha the mos dis wor for mos of the cat wer com wor , not the low - to - int fre wor tha are mos dis in top cla .
thi sug tha the tfi wei was ina , but tha a big rep mig be mor inf .
exp sho tha add big to an unw bag of wor rep sli imp per - anc , esp on del .
the res are sho in tab 123 on the row mar no tfi and big .
( the tfi - wei svm is sho in the row mar bas , and the ma -
jor cla in the row mar def all num are f12 mea on 123 - fol cro - val . ) exa of mes sug oth pos imp .
sin muc neg - tia inv tim , we ran a han - cod ex - tra for tim and dat exp on the dat , and ext as fea the num of tim ex - pre in a mes , and the wor tha oc - cur nea a tim ( for ins , one suc fea is the wor bef app nea a tim ) .
the res app in the row mar tim .
sim , we ran a par of spe ( pos ) tag and add fea for wor app nea a pro or pro nou ( per in the tab ) , and als add pos cou .
to der a fin rep for eac cat - gor , we poo all fea tha imp per - for ove no tfi for tha cat .
we the com per of the doc rep to the ori tfi bag of wor bas on the ( une ) n12 and n12 cor .
as tab 123 sho , sub imp wit res to f12 and kap was obt by add the add fea ove the bas rep .
thi res con wit pre exp wit big for top - cal tex cla ( sco & mat , 123 ) and sen det ( pan et al . , 123 ) .
the dif is pro tha in thi tas , mor in - for wor are pot amb : for ins , wil you and i wil are cor wit req and com , res , but the ind wor in the big are les
lea met .
in ano exp , we fix the doc rep to be un - wei wor fre cou and var the lea alg .
in the exp , we poo all the dat fro the fou cor , a tot of 123 fea in the 123 mes , and sin the nou and ver are not mut exc , we for the tas as a set of sev bin cla pro , one for eac ver .
the fol lea wer use fro the bas on the min too ( coh , 123 ) .
vp is an imp of the vot per alg ( fre & sch , 123 ) .
dt is a sim dec tre lea sys , whi lea tre of dep at mos fiv , and cho sug by sch and
sin ( 123 ) as an app obj for wea lea .
ab is an imp of the con - rat boo met des by sin and sch ( 123 ) , use to boo the dt alg 123 tim .
svm is a sup vec ma - chi wit a lin ker ( as use abo ) .
tab 123 lea on the ent cor .
tab 123 rep the res on the mos com ver , usi 123 - fol cro - val to ass ac - cur .
one sur was tha dt ( whi we had int mer as a bas lea for ab ) wor sur wel for sev ver , whi ab sel - dom imp muc ove dt .
we con tha the bia tow lar - mar cla tha is fol by svm , ab , and vp ( and whi has bee so suc in top - ori tex cla - cat ) may be les app for thi tas , per - hap bec pos and neg cla are not cle sep ( as sug by sub
( tot : 123 msg )
fig 123 - pre / rec for com act
fur res are sho in fig 123 - 123 , whi pro pre - rec cur for man of the cla .
the low rec lev in the gra
cor to the pre of ran gue .
the gra ind tha hig - pre pre - tio can be mad for the top - lev of the ver hie , as wel as ver req and del , if one is wil to sli red rec .
( tot : 123 msg )
fig 123 - pre / rec for dir act
( tot : 123 mes )
fig 123 - pre / rec of 123 dif cla
tra .
one imp que in - vol the gen of the cla : to wha ran of cor can the be acc app ? is it pos to tra a sin set of ema - act cla tha wor for man use , or is it nec - ess to tra ind cla for eac use ? to exp thi iss we tra a dt cla - sif for dir ema on the nf1 cor , and tes it on the nf1 cor tra the sam cla on nf1 and tes it on nf1 and als per a 123 - fol cro - val exp wit eac cor .
( nf1 and nf1 are for dis set of us - ers , but are app the sam siz . ) we the per the sam exp wit vp for del ver and svm for com ver ( in
eac cas pic the top - per lea wit res to f12 ) .
the res are sho in tab 123
tab 123 - tra of cla
if lea cla wer hig spe to a par set of use , one wou exp tha the dia ent of the tab ( the one bas on cro - val wit a cor ) wou ex - hib muc bet per tha the off - dia ent .
in fac , no suc pat is sho .
for dir ver , per is sim - lar acr all tab ent , and for del and com , it see to be som bet to tra on nf1 reg of the tes set .
123 fut dir
non of the alg or rep dis - cus abo tak int acc the con of an ema mes , whi int is imp in det imp spe act .
a pla not of con is sim the pre mes in an
exp thi con is non - tri for sev - era rea .
det thr is dif al - tho ema hea con a rep - to fie , use oft use the rep mec to sta wha is int a new thr .
als , sin ema is asy , two or mor use may rep sim to a mes , lea to a thr str whi is a tre , rat tha a se - que .
fin , mos seq lea mod ass a sin cat is ass to eac in - sta . g . , ( rat , 123 ) whe our sch all mul cat .
cla of ema acc to our ver - nou ont con a spe cas of a gen - era fam of lea pro we mig cal fac cla pro , as the cla
( ema spe act ) are fac int two fea ( ver and nou ) whi joi det thi cla .
a var of rea - wor tex cla pro can be nat exp as fac pro , and fro a the vie , the add str may all con of new , mor eff alg .
for exa , the fac cla pro a mor ela str for gen pro - ist mod , suc as tho ass by nav bay .
for ins , in lea ema act , one mig ass wor wer dra fro a mix dis wit one mix com pro - duc wor con on the ver cla fac , and a sec mix com gen wor con on the nou ( see ble et al ( 123 ) for a rel mix mod ) .
alt , mod of the dep bet the dif fac ( nou and ver ) mig als be use to imp cla acc , for ins by bui int a cla the kno tha som nou and ver are inc .
the fac tha an ema can con mul ema spe act alm cer mak lea - ing mor dif : in fac , dis bet hum ann is gen hig for lon mes .
thi pro cou be add by mor det ann : rat tha ann eac mes wit all the act it con , hum ann cou lab sma mes seg ( say , sen or par ) .
an alt to mor det ( and exp ) ann wou be to use lea alg tha imp seg - men a mes .
as an exa , ano mix mod for mig be use , in whi eac mix com cor to a sin ver
123 con rem
we hav pre an ont of ema spe act tha is des to cap som im - por pro of a cen use of ema : neg - tia and coo joi act .
unl pre att to com spe act the wit ema ( win , 123 flo and lud , 123 ) , we pro a sys whi pas ob - ser ema and aut cla it by int .
thi red the bur on the use of the sys , and avo sac the fle
and soc des asp of inf , nat
thi pro als rai a num of int - ing res iss .
we sho tha ent ex - tra and par of spe tag imp cla per , but lea ope the que - tio of whe oth typ of lin ana wou be use .
pre spe act req con , whi mak cla an inh seq tas , and the lab ass to mes - sag hav non - tri str we als lea ope the que of whe the pro can be eff exp .
our exp sho tha man cat of mes can be det , wit hig pre cla lea met .
thi sug tha use tas - tra too cou be con - str bas on aut cla pot - tia imp pra app .
rec , usi exi
