we con the pro of zer - sho lea , whe the goa is to lea a cla - sie f : x y tha mus pre nov val of y tha wer omi fro the tra set .
to ach thi , we den the not of a sem out cod cla ( soc ) whi uti a kno bas of sem pro of y to ext to nov cla .
we pro a for for thi typ of cla and stu its the pro in a pac fra , sho con un - der whi the cla can acc pre nov cla .
as a cas stu , we bui a soc cla for a neu dec tas and sho tha it can oft pre wor tha peo are thi abo fro fun mag res ima ( fmr ) of the neu act , eve wit tra exa for tho wor .
mac lea alg hav bee suc app to lea cla in man dom suc as com vis , fra det , and bra ima ana .
typ , cla are tra to app a tar fun f : x y , giv a set of lab tra dat tha inc all pos val for y , and som add unl tra dat .
lit res has bee per on zer - sho lea , whe the pos val for the cla var y inc val tha hav bee omi fro the tra exa .
thi is an imp pro set , esp in dom whe y can tak on man val , and the cos of obt lab exa for all val is hig .
one obv exa is com vis , whe the are ten of tho of obj whi we mig wan a com to rec .
ano exa is in neu act dec , whe the goa is to det the wor or obj a per is thi abo by obs an ima of tha per neu act .
it is int to col neu tra ima for eve pos wor in eng , so to bui a pra neu dec we mus hav a way to ext to rec wor bey tho in the tra set .
thi pro is sim to the cha of aut spe rec , whe it is des to rec wor wit exp inc the dur cla tra .
to ach voc ind , spe rec sys typ emp a pho - bas rec str ( wai , 123 ) .
pho are the com par whi can be com to con the wor of a lan .
spe rec sys suc by lev a rel sma set of pho
rec in con wit a lar kno bas rep wor as com of to app a sim app to neu act dec , we mus dis how to inf the com - nen par of a wor mea fro neu act .
whi the is no cle con as to how the bra enc sem inf ( pla , 123 ) , the are sev pro rep tha mig ser as a kno bas of neu act , thu ena a neu dec to rec a lar set of pos wor , eve whe tho wor are omi fro a tra set .
the gen que thi pap ask is :
giv a sem enc of a lar set of con cla , can we bui a cla to rec cla tha wer omi fro the tra set ? we pro a for fra for add thi que and a con exa for the tas of neu act dec .
we sho it is pos to bui a cla tha can rec wor a per is thi abo , eve wit tra exa for tho par wor .
123 rel wor
the pro of zer - sho lea has rec lit att in the mac lea com .
som wor by lar et al .
( 123 ) on zer - dat lea has sho the abi to pre nov cla of dig tha wer omi fro a tra set .
in com vis , tec for sha fea acr obj cla hav bee inv ( tor & mur , 123 bar & ull , 123 ) but rel lit wor has foc on rec ent nov cla , wit the exc of lam et al .
( 123 ) pre vis pro of new obj and far et al .
( 123 ) usi vis pro pre for obj rec .
in the neu ima com , kay et al .
( 123 ) has sho the abi to dec ( fro vis cor act ) whi nov vis sce a per is vie fro a lar set of pos ima , but wit rec the ima con per se .
the wor mos sim to our own is mit ( 123 ) .
the use sem fea der fro cor sta to gen a neu act pat for any nou in eng .
in our wor , by con , we foc on wor dec , whe giv a nov neu ima , we wis to pre the wor fro a lar set of pos wor .
we als con sem fea tha are der fro hum lab in add to cor sta .
fur , we int a for for a zer - sho lea and pro the gua on its abi to rec nov cla omi fro a
123 cla wit sem kno
in thi sec we for the not of a zer - sho lea tha use sem kno to ext - ola to nov cla .
whi a zer - sho lea cou tak man for , we pre one suc mod tha uti an int set of fea der fro a sem kno bas .
int , our goa is to tre eac cla not as sim an ato lab , but ins rep it usi a vec of sem fea cha a lar num of pos cla .
our mod wil lea the rel bet inp dat and the sem fea .
the wil use thi lea rel in a two ste pre pro to rec the cla lab for nov inp dat .
giv new inp dat , the mod wil pre a set of sem fea cor to tha inp , and the nd the cla in the kno bas tha bes mat tha set of pre fea .
sig , thi pro wil eve wor for inp dat fro a nov cla if tha cla is inc in the sem kno bas ( i . e .
eve if no inp spa rep is ava for the cla , but a fea enc of it exi in the sem kno bas ) .
den 123
sem fea spa a sem fea spa of p dim is a met spa in whi eac of the p dim enc the val of a sem pro .
the pro may be cat in nat or may con rea - val dat .
as an exa , con a sem spa for des hig - lev pro of ani .
in thi exa , wel con a sma spa wit onl p = 123 dim .
eac dim enc a is it fur ? doe it hav a tai ? can it bre und ? is it car ? is it slo mov ? in thi sem fea spa , the pro con of dog mig be rep as the poi ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
den 123
sem kno bas a sem kno bas k of m exa is a col of pai ( f , y ) 123 : m suc tha f f p is a poi in a p dim sem spa f p and y y is a cla lab fro a set y .
we ass a one - to - one enc bet cla lab and poi in the sem fea spa .
a kno bas of ani wou con the sem enc and lab for man ani .
den 123
sem out cod cla a sem out cod cla h : x d y map poi fro som d dim raw - inp spa x d to a lab fro a set y suc tha h is the com of two oth fun , s and l ,
h = l ( s ( ) ) : x d f p l : f p y
thi mod of a zer - sho cla rst map fro a d dim raw - inp spa x d int a sem spa of p dim f p , and the map thi sem enc to a cla lab .
for exa , we may ima som raw - inp fea fro a dig ima of a dog rst map int the sem enc of a dog des ear , whi is the map to the cla lab dog .
as a res , our cla lab can be tho of as a sem out cod , sim in spi to the err - cor out cod of die and bak ( 123 ) .
as par of its tra inp , thi cla is giv a set of n exa d tha con of pai ( x , y ) 123 : n suc tha x x d and y y .
the cla is als giv a kno bas k of m exa tha is a col of pai ( f , y ) 123 : m suc tha f f p and y y .
typ , m >> n , mea tha dat in sem spa is ava for man mor cla lab tha in the raw - inp a sem out cod cla can be use whe the kno bas k cov mor of the pos val for y tha are cov by the inp dat d .
to lea the map s , the cla rst bui a new set of n exa ( x , f ) 123 : n by rep eac y wit the res sem enc f acc to its kno bas k .
the int beh usi thi two - sta pro is tha the cla may be abl to lea the rel bet the raw - inp spa and the ind dim of the sem fea spa fro a rel sma num of tra exa in the inp spa .
whe a new exa is pre , the cla wil mak a pre abo its sem enc usi the lea s map .
eve whe a new exa bel to a cla tha did not app in the tra set d , if the pre pro by the s map is clo to the tru enc of tha cla , the the l map wil hav a rea cha of rec the cor lab .
as a con exa , if the mod can pre the obj has fur and a tai , it wou hav a goo cha of rec the cla lab dog , eve wit hav see ima of dog dur tra .
in sho : by usi a ric sem enc of the cla , the cla may be abl to ext and rec nov cla .
123 the ana
in thi sec we con the pro of a sem out cod cla tha det its abi to rec ins of nov cla .
in oth wor , we wil add the que : und wha con wil the sem out cod cla rec exa fro cla omi fro its tra set ?
in ans thi que , our goa is to obt a pac - sty bou : we wan to kno how muc err can be tol in the pre of the sem pro whi sti rec the nov cla wit hig pro .
we wil the use thi err bou to obt a bou on the num of exa nec to ach tha lev of err in the rst sta of the cla .
the ide is tha if the rst sta s ( ) of the cla can pre the sem pro wel , the the sec sta l ( ) wil hav a goo cha of rec the cor lab for ins fro nov cla .
as a rst ste tow a gen the of zer - sho lea , we wil con one ins of a sem out cod cla .
we wil ass tha sem fea are bin lab , the rst sta s ( ) is a col of pac - lea lin cla ( one cla per fea ) , and the sec sta l ( ) is a 123 - nea nei cla usi the ham dis met .
by mak the ass , we can lev exi pac the for lin cla as wel as the for app nea nei sea .
muc of our nea - nei ana par the wor of cia and pat ( 123 ) .
we rst wan to bou the amo of err we can tol giv a pre of sem fea .
to nd thi bou , we den f to be the dis in sem fea spa of poi fro the kno bas k .
cle poi ( cla ) in sem spa may not be equ fro eac oth .
a poi mig be far fro oth , whi wou all mor roo for err in the pre of sem fea for thi poi , whi mai the abi to rec its uni ide ( lab ) .
con , a poi clo to oth in sem spa wil hav low tol of err .
in sho , the tol for err is rel to a par poi in rel to oth poi in sem spa .
we nex den a pre q to be the out of the s ( ) map app to som raw - inp exa x x d .
let d ( q , q ( cid : 123 ) ) be the dis bet the pre q and som oth poi q ( cid : 123 ) rep a cla in the sem spa .
we den the rel dis rq for a poi q as the pro tha the dis fro q to q ( cid : 123 ) is les tha som dis z :
thi emp dis dep on f and is jus the fra of sam poi fro f tha are les tha som dis z awa fro q .
usi thi dis , we can als den a dis on the dis to the nea nei of q , den as q :
rq ( z ) = p ( d ( q , q ( cid : 123 ) ) z )
gq ( z ) = p ( q z )
whi is giv in cia ( 123 ) as :
gq ( z ) = 123 ( 123 rq ( z ) ) n
whe n is the num of act poi dra fro the dis f .
now sup tha we den q to be the dis a pre q for raw - inp exa x is fro the tru sem enc of the cla to whi x bel .
int , the cla we inf for inp x is goi to be the poi clo to pre q , so we wan a sma pro tha the dis q to the tru cla is lar tha the dis bet q and its nea nei , sin tha wou mea the is a spu nei clo to q in sem spa tha the poi rep qs tru cla :
p ( q q )
rea we can put thi in ter of the dis gq and the can sol for q :
p ( q q )
if gq ( ) wer inv , we cou imm rec the val q for a des .
for som dis , gq ( ) may not be a 123 - to - 123 fun , so the may not be an inv .
but gq ( ) wil nev dec sin it is a cum dis fun .
we wil the den a fun g12 suc tha : g12 so usi nea nei for l ( ) , if q g12 q ( ) , the we wil rec the cor cla wit at lea 123 pro .
to ens tha we ach thi err bou , we nee to mak sur the tot err of s ( ) is les tha g12 .
we ass in thi ana tha we hav p bin sem fea and a ham dis met , so max den the tot
q ( ) whi we den as max
q ( ) = arg
num of mis we can mak pre the bin fea .
not wit our ass , eac sem fea is pac - lea usi a lin cla fro a d dim raw inp spa .
to sim the ana , we wil tre eac of the p sem fea as ind lea .
by the pac ass , the tru err ( i . e .
pro of the cla mak a mis ) of eac of the p lea hyp is , the the exp num of mis ove the p sem fea wil be mis is giv by the bin dis : bin ( max we can obt the des err rat for eac hyp by uti the sta pac bou for vc - dim ( mit , 123 ) .
to obt a hyp wit ( 123 ) pro tha has tru err at mos = max
/ p = g12 ( ) / p , the the cla req a num of exa mq , :
fur , the pro of mak at mos max
if we set = max
; p , max
123 ( 123 / ) + 123 ( d + 123 ) log ( 123 / max
if eac of the p cla ( fea pre ) is lea wit thi man exa , the wit pro - abi ( 123 ) p , all fea pre wil ach the des err rat .
but not tha thi is onl the pro of ach p hyp wit the des tru err rat .
the bin cdf yie mis tot , and the ( 123 ) ter abo spe the the pro of mak at mos max pro of rec the tru cla if a max of thi man mis wer mad .
the , the are thr pro eve req for the sem out cod cla to pre a nov cla and the tot ( joi ) pro of the eve is :
p ( the are p fea pre wit tru err max p ( at mos max p ( rec tru cla | at mos max
mis mad | the are p fea pre wit tru err max
and sin max
q ( ) , the tot pro is giv by : ( 123 ) p bin ( g12
q ( ) ; p , g12
q ( ) / p ) ( 123 )
in sum , giv des err par ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) for the two cla sta , equ 123 pro the tot pro of cor pre a nov cla .
giv the val for we can com the nec for eac fea pre .
we are gua to obt the tot pro if the fea pre wer tra wit mq , raw - inp exa as spe in equ 123
to our kno , equ 123 and 123 spe the rst for gua tha pro con und whi a cla can pre nov cla .
123 cas stu : neu dec of nov tho
in thi sec we emp eva a sem out cod cla on a neu dec tas .
the obj is to dec nov wor a per is thi abo fro fmr ima of the per neu act , wit inc exa fmr ima of tho wor dur tra .
we uti the sam fmr dat fro mit ( 123 ) .
thi dat con the neu act obs fro nin hum par whi vie 123 dif con wor ( 123 exa fro 123 dif cat ) .
som exa inc ani : bea , dog , cat , cow , hor and veh : tru , car , tra , air , bic .
eac par was sho a wor and a sma lin dra of the con obj the wor rep .
the par wer ask to thi abo the pro of the obj for sev sec whi ima of the bra act wer rec .
eac ima mea the neu act at rou 123 , 123 loc ( i . e .
vox ) in the bra .
six fmr sca wer tak for eac wor .
we use the sam tim - ave des in mit ( 123 ) to cre a sin ave bra act pat for eac of the 123 wor , for eac par .
123 vc dim of lin cla in d dim is d + 123
in the lan of the sem out cod cla , thi dat rep the col d of raw - inp spa exa .
we als col two sem kno bas for the 123 wor .
in the rst sem kno - edg bas , cor , eac wor is rep as a co - occ vec wit the 123 mos fre wor fro the goo tri - wor - cor
the sec sem kno bas , hum , was cre usi the mec tur hum com ser fro ama . com .
the wer 123 sem fea col for the 123 wor , and the que wer sel to ree psy con abo neu act enc .
for exa , the que rel to siz , sha , sur pro , and typ usa .
exa que inc is it man ? and can you hol it ? .
use of the mec tur ser ans the que for eac wor on a sca of 123 to 123 ( den not to den yes ) .
in our exp , we use mul out lin reg to lea the s ( ) map of the sem out cod cla .
let x ( cid : 123 ) nd be a tra set of fmr exa whe eac row is the ima for a par wor and d is the num of dim of the fmr ima .
dur tra , we use the vox - sta - cri tha doe not use the cla lab des in mit ( 123 ) to red d fro abo 123 , 123 vox to 123
let y ( cid : 123 ) np be a mat of sem fea for tho wor ( obt fro the kno bas k ) whe p is the num of sem fea for tha
wor ( e . g .
123 for the hum kno bas ) .
we lea a mat of wei ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) dp
thi mod , eac out is tre ind , so we can sol all of the qui in one mat ope ( eve wit tho of sem fea ) :
( cid : 123 ) w = ( xt x + i ) 123 y
whe i is the ide mat and is a reg par cho aut usi the cro - val sco fun ( has et al . , 123 ) 123
giv a nov fmr ima x , we can obt
a pre ( cid : 123 ) f of the sem fea for thi ima by mul the ima by the wei : ( cid : 123 ) f = x ( cid : 123 ) w cla .
in oth wor , l ( ( cid : 123 ) f ) wil tak the pre of fea and ret the clo poi in a
for the sec sta of the sem out cod cla , l ( ) , we sim use a 123 - nea nei
giv kno bas acc the euc dis ( l12 ) met .
usi the mod and dat des abo , we now pos and ans thr imp que .
can we bui a cla to dis bet two cla , whe nei cla app in the tra set ? to ans thi que , we per a lea - two - out - cro - val .
spe , we tra the mod in equ 123 to lea the map bet 123 fmr ima and the sem fea for the res wor .
for the rst hel out ima , we app the lea wei mat to obt a pre of the sem fea , and the we use a 123 - nea nei cla to com the vec of pre to the tru sem enc of the two hel - out wor .
the lab was cho by sel the wor wit the enc clo to the pre for the fmr ima .
we the per the sam tes usi the sec hel - out ima .
thu , for eac ite of the cro -
val , two sep com wer mad .
thi pro was rep for all ( cid : 123 ) 123
( cid : 123 ) = 123 , 123
pos lea - two - out com lea to 123 , 123 tot com .
tab 123 sho the res for two dif sem fea enc .
we see tha the hum sem fea sig out the cor fea , wit mea acc ove the nin par of 123 and 123 res .
but for bot fea set , we see tha it is pos to dis bet two nov cla for eac of the nin par .
123 are nor to uni len and do not inc 123 sto wor lik a , the , is 123 com the cro - val sco for eac tas and cho the par tha min the ave
los acr all out tas .
tab 123 : per acc for lea - two - out - cro - val for 123 fmr par ( lab p12 - p12 ) .
the val rep cla per acc ove 123 , 123 tri whe dis be - twe two fmr ima , bot of whi wer omi fro the tra set .
fig 123 : ten sem fea fro the hum kno bas for the wor bea and dog .
the tru enc is sho alo wit the pre enc whe fmr ima for bea and dog wer lef out of the tra set .
how is the cla abl to dis bet clo rel nov cla ? fig 123 sho ten sem que ( fea ) fro the hum dat .
the gra sho the tru val alo wit the pre fea val for bot bea and dog whe tra on the oth 123 wor .
we see the mod is abl to lea to pre man of the key fea tha bea and dog hav in com suc as is it an ani ? as wel as tho tha dif bet the two , suc as do you see it dai ? and can you hol it ? for bot of the nov wor , the fea pre fro the neu dat wer clo to the tru wor .
can we dec the wor fro a lar set of pos wor ? giv the suc of the sem out cod cla at dis bet the bra ima for two nov wor , we now con the muc har pro of dis a nov wor fro a lar set of can wor .
to tes thi abi , we per a lea - one - out - cro - val , whe we tra usi equ 123 on ima and sem fea for 123 wor .
we the pre - dic the fea for the hel - out ima of the 123 wor , and the per a 123 - nea nei cla in a lar set of can wor .
we tes two dif wor set .
the rst was mri whi is the col of all 123 con nou for whi we col fmr dat , inc the 123 tra wor and the sin hel out wor .
the sec set was nou , a col of 123 eng nou wit hig fam , con and ima , com fro wil ( 123 ) and sno ( 123 ) .
for thi set of wor , we add the tru hel - out wor to the set of 123 on eac cro - val ite .
we per thi exp usi bot the cor and hum fea set .
the ran acc res ( ove 123 cro - val ite ) of the fou exp are sho in fig 123
the hum fea aga sig out cor on bot mea and med ran acc mea , and bot fea set per wel abo cha .
on 123 of 123 tot pre of the mri wor ( 123 pre for eac of nin par ) , the hum fea pre the sin hel - out wor abo all 123 oth wor in its tra set .
whi jus a bit abo cha lev ( 123 / 123 ) , the fac tha the mod eve cho the hel - out wor ove all the tra wor is not sin the mod is und bia tow pre fea val sim to the wor on whi it was tra .
on the nou wor , the mod pre the cor wor fro the set of 123 alt a tot of 123 tim for the hum fea and 123 tim for the cor fea .
for som sub , the mod cor pic the rig
bea & dog pre mat - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 it ana ? is it man - mad ? do you see dai ? is ith ? can you it ? wou you it in aho ? do you it ? doe its ont leg ? is it wil ? doe itp ? ans pre tar tar pre fig 123 : the mea and med ran acc acr nin par for two dif sem fea set .
bot the ori 123 fmr wor and a set of 123 nou wer con .
tab 123 : the top ve pre wor for a nov fmr ima tak for the wor in bol ( all fmr ima tak fro par p12 ) .
the num in the par con the ran of the cor wor sel fro 123 con nou in eng .
wor fro the set of 123 mor tha 123 of the tim .
the cha acc of pre a wor cor is onl 123 , mea we wou exp les tha one cor pre acr all 123 as fig 123 sho , the med ran acc are oft sig hig tha the mea ran acc .
usi the hum fea on the nou wor , the med ran acc is abo 123 for eac par whi the mea is typ abo 123 low .
thi is due to the fac tha sev wor are con pre poo .
the pre of wor in the cat ani - mal , bod par , foo , too , and veh typ per wel , whi the wor in the cat fur , man - mad ite , and ins oft per poo .
eve whe the cor wor is not the clo mat , the wor tha bes mat the pre fea are oft ver sim to the hel - out wor .
tab 123 sho the top ve pre wor for eig dif hel - out fmr ima for par p12 ( i . e .
the 123 clo wor in the set of 123 to the pre vec of sem fea ) .
we pre a for for a zer - sho lea alg kno as the sem out cod cla .
thi cla can pre nov cla tha wer omi fro a tra set by lev a sem kno bas tha enc fea com to bot the nov cla and the tra set .
we als pro the rst for gua tha sho con und whi thi cla wil pre nov cla .
we dem thi sem out cod cla on the tas of neu dec usi sem kno bas der fro bot hum lab and cor sta .
we sho thi cla can pre the wor a per is thi abo fro a rec fmr ima of tha per neu act wit acc muc hig tha cha , eve whe tra exa for tha par wor wer omi fro the tra set and the cla was for to pic the wor fro amo nea 123 , 123 alt .
we hav sho tha tra ima of bra act are not req for eve wor we wou lik a cla to rec .
the res sig adv the sta - of - the - art in neu dec and are a pro ste tow a lar voc bra - com int .
