ith doc has bee app
for pub rel and sal its dis is unl .
mos res on mac lea has foc on sce in whi a lea fac a sin , iso lea tas .
the lif lea fra ass ins tha the lea enc a mul of rel lea tas ove its lif , pro the opp for the tra of thi pap stu lif lea in the con of bin cla .
it pre the inv app , in whi kno is tra via a lea mod of the inv of the dom .
res on lea to rec obj fro col ima dem sup gen cap if inv are lea and use to bia ' sub lea .
thi res is spo in par by the nat sci fou und awa iri - 123 , and by the wri lab , aer sys cen , air for mat com , usa , and the adv res pro age ( arp ) und gra num f12 - 123 - 123 - 123
vie and con con in thi doc are tho of the aut and sho not be int as nec rep off pol or end , eit exp or imp , of nsf , wri lab or the uni sta gov .
key : exp - bas neu net lea , lea inv , lif lea ,
mac lea , neu net , obj rec
sta ind sup lea is con wit lea an unk tar fun fro a fin col of tra dat .
the fra of sup lea can be cha as fol .
let f den the set of all pot tar fun .
for exa , in a rob arm dom f mig be the set of all kin fun for rob wit thr joi .
it is com ass tha all fun in f are def ove a sin inp spa , den by i , and a sin out spa , den by 123
the lea has a set of hyp tha it can con , den by h , whi mig or mig not be dif fro f .
for exa , the set h cou be the set of all art neu net wit 123 hid uni ( rum et al . , 123 , or , alt , the set of all dec tre wit dep les tha 123 ( qui , 123
thr thi pap , let us mak the sim ass tha all fun in f are bin cla , by res the out to 123 = ( 123 , 123 ) .
we wil ref to ins tha fal int cla i as pos ins , and to tho tha fal int cla 123 as neg ins .
to lea an unk tar fun f* e f , the lea is giv a fin col of inp -
out exa ( tra exa )
whi are pos dis by noi .
the goa of the lea is to gen a hyp h e h , suc tha the dev
e = e pro ( i ) ! lf* ( i ) - h ( i ) 123
bet the tar fun f* and h on fut exa wil be as sma as pos .
her pro ( i ) is the pro dis acc to whi the exa are gen .
pro is gen unk to the lea , as is f* .
sta sup lea foc on lea a sin tar fun f* , and tra dat is ass to be ava onl for thi one fun .
how , if fun in f are suf rel , it can be hel to hav acc to tra exa of oth fun f in f as wel .
for exa , con a rob who tas is to fin and fet var obj , usi its cam for obj rec .
her let f be the set of rec fun for all obj , one for eac pot tar obj , and the tar fun f* e f cor to som obj the rob mus cur lea to rec .
x , the tra set , wil con of pos and neg exa of thi obj .
the tas of the lea is to fin an h whi min e .
in ord to do so , the rob mus lea to rec the tar obj inv of rot , tra , sca in siz , cha of lig and so on .
cle , the mor pro the lea ' s ini und of the inv , the few tra exa in x it wil req for rel lea .
bec the inv are com to all fun in f , ima sho oth obj can pro add inf for lea abo the inv , and hen aug the tra set x .
thi exa ill the lif lea fra ( thr and mit , 123
lif lea , a col of rel lea pro is enc ove the lif of the sys .
whe lea the n - th tas , the lea may the emp kno gat in the
" * a spa of pos hyp h " * a set of tra exa x of som unk tar fun f* e f , dra
wit pro dis pro .
" * in lif lea : a col of sup set y = ( xk ) , whi cha
oth fun fk e f
a hyp h e h tha min 123 pro ( i ) iif ( i ) - h ( i ) ii
tab 123 : sta sup lea and lif sup lea .
pre n - 123 tas to imp its per .
thi pap con a par for of lif lea in whi the lea tas cor to lea boo cla ( con ) , and in whi the pre exp con of tra exa of oth cla fun fro the sam fam f .
mor for , in add to the set of tra exa x for the tar fun f * , the lea is als pro set of exa
xk = ( ( i , gk ( i ) ) )
( k = 123 , . . . , igi )
of oth fun g = ( g , , g12 , . . . ) c f tak fro the sam fun fam f .
sin thi add dat sup lea f* , we sha cal eac xk a sup set for x .
the set of all ava sup set , ( xi , : k = i , . . . , igi , is den by y .
not tha the sup set xk are not nec gen acc to the sam pro dis .
tab i sum the pro def of sta sup lea and the lif sup lea pro con her .
in lif lea , the lea is giv a col of sup set y in add to the tra set x and the hyp spa y .
sup set can be def for a var of rea - wor lea tas .
for exa , con a per com ass who tas it is to rec its use ' s han .
f is the set of all map fro han - dra cur to let lab , one for eac pot use .
for eac use , i . e . , for eac f e f , the ass cou sta lea to rec han fro scr .
how , man cha wil co - occ for mul use , and one wou exp a lea whi inc exa fro oth use to gen bet .
a sec exa , to whi ind mac lea tec hav fre bee app , is sto mar pre .
whi man of the suc tec in thi dom rem unp , it see to be wel - acc tha sto can be pre bet by lea fro dat reg ent fam of sto , rat tha lea abo a sin sto in iso .
cle , cer pat can be fou tha app to var sto , and kno abo the reg whe tra dat is lim wil mos lik imp the pre acc of a lea sys .
the lif lea fra stu in thi pap dif fro sta sup lea in tha in add to the tra dat x , sup set y are als pro .
thi rai two
how can a lea use sup set to gen mor acc ?
und wha con wil a lea ben fro sup set ? obv , the mor clo rel the fun in f , the bet .
but exa wha rel amo the fun is req in ord for sup set to be use ? wha hap if the fun in f are not rel at all ? can sup set mis gen and , if so , und wha con ?
thi pap doe not pro gen ans to the que .
ins , it pro one par app , nam lea inv fun , whi rel on cer ass on the fun set f .
it als pre emp evi tha thi app to usi sup set can sig imp gen acc whe lea to rec obj bas on vis
123 the inv app
the inv app fir lea an inv fun o fro the sup set in y .
thi fun is the use to bia the lea as it sel a hyp to fit the tra exa x of the tar fun .
let y = ( xk ) be a col of sup set for lea f* fro x .
rec our ass tha all fun in f hav bin out val .
hen , eac exa in a sup set is eit pos ( i . e . , out 123 ) or neg ( i . e . , out 123 ) .
con a tar fun , fk e f wit k e ( i . . . , jfj ) , and a pai of exa , say i e i and e i .
a loc inv ope " rk : i x i - -
( 123 , 123 ) is a map fro a pai of inp vec def as fol :
if a ( i ) = fk ( j ) = i if fk ( i ) # a ( j ) if fk ( i ) = fk ( j ) =12
bas , the loc inv ope ind whe bot ins are mem of cla i ( pos exa ) rel to fk .
if rk ( i , j ) = 123 , the fk is inv wit res to i and j .
not tha pos and neg ins are not tre sym in r .
the loc inv ope rk ( k = i , . . . , ifi ) def a ( glo ) inv fun for f , ( 123 , 123 ) .
for two exa , i and j , ao ( i , j ) is 123 if the exi a k for
den by a : i x i whi rk ( i , j ) = 123
lik , a ( i , j ) is 123 if the exi a k for whi rk ( i , j ) = 123 :
if 123 e l , . . . , ifi ) wit tk ( i , j ) = 123 if1 ( , . . . .
jfj ) wit ( i , j ) =12
the inv fun beh lik an inv ope , but it doe not dep on k .
it is imp to not tha the inv fun can be ill - def .
thi is the cas if the exi two exa whi in one tar fun bot bel to cla 123 , whe in ano the fal int
123 , j e i , k , k ' e ( 123 , . . . , ifi ) : rk ( i , j ) = i a tk , ( i , j ) = 123
in suc cas the inv map is amb and is not eve a mat fun .
a cla of fun f is sai to obe the inv pro if its inv fun is non - amb ' .
the inv pro is a cen ass for the inv app to lif cla lea .
the con of inv fun is qui pow .
ass f hol the inv pro .
if a is kno , eve tra ins i for an arb fun fk e f can be cor cla , giv the is at lea one pos ins of fk ava .
to see , ass ipo , e i is kno to be a pos ins for fk .
the for any ins i e i , a ( i , izo ) wil be 123 if and onl if fk ( i ) = 123
alt the inv pro imp a res on the fun fam f , it hol tru for qui a few rea - wor pro .
for exa , a fun fam obe the inv pro if all pos cla ( of all fun fk ) are dis .
one suc fun fam is the fam of obj rec fun def ove dis obj .
123 lea wit inv
in the lif lea reg stu in thi pap , a - is not giv .
how , an app to o - can be lea .
sin ao doe not dep upo the spe tar fun f* , eve sup set xk e y can be use to tra a ' , as lon as the is at lea one pos ins ava in xk .
for all k e ( i , . . . , igi ) , tra exa for a " are con fro exa i , j e xk :
her rk mus be def , i . e . , at lea one of the exa i and j mus be pos und fk .
in the exp des bel , ao is app by tra an art neu net usi the bac alg ( rum et al . , 123
onc o , has bee lea , one way to mim f* is to pic an arb pos tra ins in x , and to use o " for cla , as des abo .
how , ao mig not be acc eno to cla cor , usu bec of mod lim , noi , or lac of tra dat .
in fac , the exp res des in the nex sec ind tha the are bet way to emp the inv net .
123 ext slo to gui gen
the rem of thi sec des an alt app whi emp a hyb neu net lea alg for lea f* .
thi alg is a spe cas of bot the tan - ' it is gen acc for the inv fun to be amb , as lon as the lik for gen
amb cla pai of exa is zer .
fig 123 : fit val and slo : let f* be the tar fun for whi thr exa ( x 123 , f* ( x12 ) ) , ( x12 , 123 ( x12 ) ) , and ( x 123 , f* ( x 123 ) ) are kno .
bas on the poi the lea mig gen the hyp hi .
if the slo are als kno , the lea can do muc bet : h , .
pro alg ( sim et al . , 123 and the exp - bas neu net lea ( ebn ) alg ( mit and thr , 123
her we wil ref to it as ebn .
sup we are giv a tra set x , and an inv net a whi has bee tra usi a col of sup set y .
we are now int in lea f* .
one cou , of cou , ign the inv net and the sup set alt and tra a neu net pur bas on the tra dat x .
the tra set x imp a col of con on the out val for the hyp h .
if h is rep by an art neu net , as is the cas in the exp rep bel , the bac ( bp ) alg can be use to fit x .
ebn doe thi , but it als der add con usi the inv net .
mor pre , in add to the val con in x , ebn der con on the slo ( tan ) for the hyp h .
to see how thi is don , con a tra exa i , tak fro the tra set x .
let ip , be an arb pos exa in x .
the , o ( i , ipo ) det whe i and iz ' s bel to the sam cla - inf tha is rea ava , sin we are giv the cla of i and ip .
how , pre the cla usi the inv net als all us to det the out - inp slo of the inv net .
the slo mea the sen of cla mem wit res to the inp fea in i .
thi is don by com the par der of a wit res to i at ( i , ipo ) :
jio ( i )
" - - 123 123 ( , i p
via ( i ) mea how inf cha in i wil aff the cla of i .
sin ar ( - , ip , ) is an app to f* , via ( i ) app the slo vif ( i ) .
con , ins of fit tra exa of the typ ( i , f ( i ) ) , ebn fit tra exa of the typ
gra des can be use to fit tra exa of thi typ , as exp in ( sim et al . , 123
123 ill the uti of thi add slo inf in fun fit .
not if mul pos ins are ava in x , slo can be der for eac one of
let xpo c x be the set of pos tra exa in x .
let x ' = 123
for eac tra exa ( i , f* ( 123 ) ) e xpo do :
( a ) com via ( i ) =x 123 ( i ) ( i
xpo , e xpr
( b ) let ' = x ' + ( i , f* ' ( i ) , vza ( i ) )
fit x ' .
s ) usi the inv net a .
tab 123 : app of ebn to lea wit inv net .
in thi cas , ave slo are use to con the tar fun :
r ( i , i ( cid : 123 ) ~ ) ( |
her xp c x den the set of pos exa in x .
the app of the ebn alg to lea wit inv net is sum in tab 123
gen spe , slo inf ext fro the inv net is a lin ap - pro to the var and inv of f at a spe poi in l .
alo the inv dir slo wil be app zer , whi alo oth the wil be lar .
for exa , in the obj rec dom des abo , it mig hap tha col is an imp fea for cla whi bri is not .
thi is typ the cas in sit wit cha ill .
in thi cas , the inv net cou lea to ign bri , and hen the slo of its cla wit res to bri wou be app zer .
the slo for col , how , wou be lar , giv tha sli col cha imp tha the obj wou bel to a dif cla .
whe tra the cla net , slo pro add inf abo the sen of the tar fun wit res to its inp fea .
hen , the inv net can be sai to bia the lea of the cla net .
how , sin ebn tra on bot slo and val sim , err in thi bia ( inc slo due to app in the lea inv net ) can be ove by the obs tra exa val in x .
123 obj rec
to ill the inv net in a rea - wor dom , we col a dat of 123 col cam ima of sev dif obj , as dep in fig .
123 ( lef col ) .
blu and whi
ham bro and bla med dep on per
the obj wer cho so as tc pro col and siz cue hel to the dis .
the bac of all ima con of pla , whi car .
dif ima of the sam obj var by the rel loc and ori of the obj wit the ima .
in 123 of all rec , the loc of the lig sou was als cha , pro bri ref at ran loc in var cas .
in som of the ima the obj wer bac - lit , in whi cas the app to be bla .
123 sho exa of two of the obj , the sho and the gla .
123 ima of eac obj wer rec .
in all our exp ima wer enc by a 123 - dim vec , pro col , bri and sat inf for a dow - sca ima of siz 123 by 123
exa for the dow - sca ima are sho in fig 123 ( rig col ) and 123
alt eac obj app to be eas to rec fro the ori ima , in man cas we fou it dif to vis cla obj fro the sub ima .
how , sub was nec to kee the net at a rea siz .
the set of tar fun , f , was the set of fun tha rec obj , one for eac obj .
for exa , the ind fun for the bot , fbo . , was i , if the ima sho a bot , and 123 oth .
sin we onl pre dis obj , all set of pos ins wer dis .
con , f obe the inv pro .
the set of hyp h was the set of all art neu net wit 123 inp uni , 123 hid uni , and i out uni , as suc a net was emp to rep the tar fun .
the obj was to lea to rec sho , i . e . , f* = fsh .
fiv oth obj , nam the bot , the hat , the ham , the can and the boo , wer use to con the sup set v .
in ord to avo any ove in the tra set x and the sup set in y , we exc use pic of a sev obj , gla , as cou for fah .
123 tra the inv net
eac of the fiv sup set in y , xbo , xh . , , xh . mme , xya , and xok , con 123 ima of the cor obj ( pos exa ) and 123 ran sel ima of oth obj ( neg exa ) .
whe con tra exa for the inv net , we ran sel a sub of 123 , 123 pai of ima , 123 of whi wer tak for tra and 123 for cro - val .
123 of the fin tra and cro - val exa wer pos exa for the inv net ( i . e . , bot ima sho the sam obj ) , and the oth 123 wer neg exa .
fig 123 : obj ( lef ) and cor net inp ( rig ) .
a hun ima of a bot .
a hat , a ham , a cok can , and a boo wer use to tra and tes the inv net .
aft , the cla net was tra to dis the sho fro the gla .
in sev att to con an inv net , usi a var of net top wit up to two hid lay , we ach a max gen acc of 123 .
thi res was som uns , sin ran gue , by com , res in 123 ac - cur .
whe app to the two rem uns obj , the sho and the gla , the bes inv net cla onl 123 of all ima pai cor .
in ord to imp the res , we app a lea tec tha foc lea by inc add tra inf , ado fro isu and ker , 123
( car , 123
the tec res on the ass tha in add to the ! ear tas of int , som rel lea tas , usi the sam inp rep and the sam tra dat ( wit dif tar val ) , are ava .
ins of tra on a sin tas , a net is
fig 123 : ima , alo wit the cor net inp , of the obj sho and gla .
the exa ill som of the inv in the obj rec dom .
tra on all tas sim , usi an aug out lay tha pro add out uni for the add tas .
thi tec , whi is cal " lea by hin " or " mul - tas lea , " has bee fou to yie bet gen acc , whi can be att to the fac tha all of the tas sha the sam hid uni .
if tas are suf rel , it all bet hid rep to be dev , res in imp gen .
in fac , thi app est an alt met for the lif lea pro , as dis in sec .
in the obj rec dom , a tas tha is obv rel to det whe or not two ima bel to the sam cla is the tas of act cla the two ima .
hen , we add two set of 123 out uni to the inv net , whi wer tra to det the cla of the obj sho in eit ima .
a loc i - of - n enc was use to enc the 123 dif obj cla .
hen , the aug inv net had i i out uni , one for det if the two ima are the sam or not and 123 for cla ima .
the lat 123 uni , how , wer use exc dur tra the inv net , and did not pla any par in sub app the inv net .
the cla acc of thi net was sig bet tha the acc of the sin out net rep abo .
aft tra , the aug net man to det whe or not two obj bel to the sam cla wit 123 gen acc .
it als exh 123 cla acc in
the new tas , the rec of the sho .
obv , bot acc rat are sig bet
tha tho ach usi the sin out net .
123 lam to rec sho
hav tra the inv net , we wer now int in tra the cla net .
the net use thr the exp rep her con of 123 inp uni , 123 hid uni , and i out uni - no eff was mad to opt the net top .
a tot of 123 exa of ima sho the sho and the gla wer ava for tra and tes the sho cla net .
the cen que reg the inv app is to wha ext the inv net , whe use to bia the tar fun , imp the gen acc of the cla
in ord to elu the rol of the inv net , we tra the cla net usi onl two tra exa : a ran sel ima of the sho ( pos exa ) , and a ran sel ima of the gla ( neg exa ) .
slo wer com usi the pre lea inv net .
sin the cou to the tar con , the gla , for a uni cla of ima tha do not ove wit any oth pos cla fro the sup set , slo cou als be der usi neg exa .
ins of usi eq .
( i ) , slo wer ext fro the inv net usi the ext mix :
123 i pn
her xt , , c x is the set of pos exa in x , and x , .
= x - x . o is the set of neg exa .
( 123 ) dif fro eq .
( 123 ) by tak als neg exa 123 , , s int acc , whi is jus by the fac tha ima of gla for a cla dis fro all oth obj .
123 sho the ave gen cur as a fun of tra epo wit and wit the inv net .
the gen acc her was mea ove all 123 ava ima .
the cur sho the gen acc ave ove 123 exp , eac tra usi one ran sel pos and one ran sel neg exa . 123 wit usi the inv app , the ave gen acc aft 123 , 123 tra epo is 123 .
how , usi ebn wit the inv net inc acc to 123 due to the inf con by the inv slo .
thi dif can be ass in mul way .
in ter of res err , bac eyh a mis rat tha is 123 lar tha tha of ebn .
a sec int is to loo at the per inc .
whi is def as the dif in cla acc aft lea and bef lea , ass tha the acc bef lea is 123 .
123 : nn ' s per inc is 123 , whi is 123 tim bet tha bac ' s 123 .
for exa , if a neu net is tra usi the two ima of a sho and the gla dep in fig .
123 , pla bac cla onl 123 of the tes ima cor .
123 we use a fas lea met tha ada the amo of mom on - lin dur lea .
fig 123 : tra cur , wit ( sol lin ) and wit ( das lin ) the inv net and ebn , mea on an ind tes set and ave ove 123 run , aft pro one pos and one neg tra exa .
her the gen rat is par poo , sin the loc of thk obj dif , and bac mis con loc the cru fea for obj rec .
ebn usi the inv net pro a net tha is muc les sen to obj loc , res in a 123 gen acc in thi par exa .
not tha the net lea by ebn per sig bet tha the inv net its use as a cla ( 123 ) .
thi is bec ebn is tra on ima of the sho and the gla , whi the inv net is not .
the imp of mix slo bec cle by loo at the acc tha is ach whe slo are com dif .
if slo are onl ext by com an ima wit its ( i . e . , bot ima of the inv net are equ ) , the ave fin acc is 123 .
whe onl pai dif ima are use as inp to the inv net , the res acc is 123 .
bot acc are sig sma tha the 123 acc ach by mix the two .
we als tri exp wei the mix of slo .
in one cas , we use the pre acc of the dom the ( lob ) as the wei fac : the mor acc the inv net for a par tra exa , the str the wei of the cor slo in the mix .
thi str , whi has bee fou to be use acr a var of dom ( mit et al . , 123 , ( thr , 123 res abo equ per ( 123 ) in the obj rec dom .
the rea sho not tha all the res ref to the cla acc aft 123 , 123 tra epo , usi jus one pos and one neg tra exa .
as can be see in fig .
123 , bac suf fro som ove - fit , as the acc dro aft a pea at abo 123 , 123 tra epo .
the ave cla acc at thi poi in tim is 123 .
how , due to lac of dat , it is imp in thi dom to use ear sto met tha rel on cro val , and it is unc whe suc met wou hav imp the res for bac sig .
123 sho ana res for tra wit two exa of bot sho and gla .
her , the dif bet ebn and bac is eve wid .
ebn ach 123
fig 123 : ( a ) ave gen acc whe tra on two pos and two neg tra exa .
( b ) gen acc for dif num of tra exa aft 123 , 123 tra epo .
fin acc , as opp to 123 by pla bac .
con , bac ' s mis rat exc tha of ebn by 123 .
ebn ' s per inc is 123 , whi is 123 tim bet tha bac ' s 123 .
res for exp wit lar tra set siz are dep in fig .
as can be see fro thi fig , the dif bet the met dec as the num of tra ins inc .
ebn , how , con to per sli bet tha pla bac .
thi mat our exp , as the nee for bac kno dec as the num of tra exa inc .
how , the pri foc of thi pap is lea whe tra dat in x is sca .
123 the rol of the inv net
the imp cla rat , whi ill the suc tra of kno fro the sup set via the inv net , rai the que wha exa are the inv rep in thi net .
wha typ inf do the slo con ?
a pla ( but onl app ) mea of the imp of a fea is the mag of its slo .
the lar the slo , the lar the eff of sma cha in the fea on the cla , hen the mor rel the fea .
in ord to emp ass the imp of fea , ave slo mag wer com for all inp pix , ave ove all 123 pai of tra ins .
the lar ave slo mag was fou for col inf : 123 .
in com , sat slo wer , on ave , onl 123 ( thi is 123 of the ave for col slo ) , and bri slo onl 123 ( 123 123 % ) .
the num ind tha , acc to the inv net , col inf was mos imp for cla .
to ver thi hyp , we rep our exp omi som of the ima inf .
mor spe , in one exp col inf was omi , in a sec sat , and bri in a thi .
the res
inv net cla , no ebn 123 tra exa per cla sam , aft 123 , 123 tra epo ima sho in fig .
123 123 tra exa per cla onl obj of sam cla use for der slo onl obj of dif cla use for der slo wei slo by cla acc
tab 123 : sum of the cla res lis in the pap .
all num are ave cla rat on uns tes dat .
wit inv net wit inv net
123 123 %
con our bel tha col inf ind dom cla .
it is cle tha wit col the gen rat in the tes set are poo , alt ebn sti gen bet .
if sat or bri is omi , how , the gen rat is app equ to the res obt for the ful ima rep abo .
how , lea req sig mor tra epo in the abs of bri inf ( not sho her ) .
the and oth res rep her are sum in tab 123
123 sho ave slo mat for the tar cat ( sho ) wit res to the thr inp fea , col , bri and sat .
gre col ind tha the ave slo for an inp pix is zer .
bri and dar col ind str pos and str neg slo , res .
not tha the slo are ave ove all 123 exp use for tra .
as is eas see , ave col slo var ove the ima , sho a sli pos ten on ave .
ave sat slo are app zer .
bri slo , how , exh a str neg ten whi is str in the cen of the ima .
one pos exp for the lat obs is the fol : bot the sho and the gla are dar com to the bac .
sho are , on ave , lar tha gla , and hen fil mor pix .
in add , in the maj of ima the obj was som nea the cen of the ima , whe the bor pix sho sig mor noi .
lac of bri in the ima cen is the a goo ind for the pre of the sho , as is cle ref in the bri slo der
fig 123 : slo of the tar con ( gla ) wit res to ( a ) col , ( b ) sat , and ( c ) bri .
eve slo is ave ove 123 exp .
whi ( bla ) col rep pos
fro the inv net .
the les obv res for col and sat can be att to the eff tha opt cla are non - lin in col and sat .
in ord to dis obj by col , for exa , the net has to spo a spe int in col spa .
hen , the cor slo can be eit pos or neg dep in the par col of a pix , can eac oth out in thi plo .
as poi out ear , slo pro fir - ord inf , and inv may wel be hid in hig - ord der .
how , bot the sup per of ebn as wel as the cle cor of slo mag and gen acc sho tha ebn man to ext use inv inf in thi dom , eve if the inv def sim
123 alt app
whi in thi pap we hav pre one par app to lif lea in the con of cla , man oth are pos and sev can be fou in rec lit .
e lea int rep .
oth res rep tec to dev mor app hid lay rep fro mul tas .
for exa , pra pro a met whi tra inf by usi an int rep tha was dev in ear lea tas ( pra , 123
a sim tec has bee pro in ( sha and sha , 123
a sec exa of lea int rep usi mul tar fun is car ' s mul - tas lea alg .
in his app .
mul , rel tas are tra sim in a sin neu net , for the net to sha hid uni .
he rep tha hid int rep are dev whi lea to imp gen ( car , 123
not tha the res mat our fin whe tra the inv net .
all the app dev bet int rep of the dat by con mul fun in f wit the goa of imp gen .
" spo rel fea .
ano app , whi bea clo res to lea inv and lea rep , is to spo irr fea ( lit , 123 , ( car and fre , 123 ) .
if the set of tar fun f is suc tha - acr the boa - onl a sub the fea is rel ( e . g . , the tim of day may not mat for obj rec ) , a lea sys can emp sup set to fin the mos rel fea .
onc the are dis , the rem hyp spa is sma , whi red the sam com in lea .
not tha ebn wea the inf of irr fea thr zer - val slo ebn .
" ada the dat .
a dif app to lif lea is to mod the dr the tra set x or in the sup set y .
for exa , ima the is a ge ! mod tha can be app to all fun in f , but it req tha dat is pre eac f e f req an ind fil .
thi is the cas , for exa , in app to spe ada .
spe ada com a fam of tec stu in spe rec , in whi a com qui ada to the acc , voi , pit , or spe of an ind spe ( see ( hil and wai , 123 for an exa ) .
typ , spe is tra to a mor mac - und spe by a use - spe mod tha all qui ada .
spe ada is an exa of an app in whi tra dat x is ada to fit pre lea mod .
in ess , all the app cha the bia of the fun app .
the dif in the way bia is rep , and in the ass the mak on the und fun cla f .
a var of app aim to cha the bia of an ind fun app in a mor dir way .
for exa , sut ( sut , 123 des an app tha emp kal fil to det opt lea rat .
atk ( atk , 123 123 pro tec for opt the dis met in a nea nei gen .
in ( mar and moo , 123 , an inc met for the sel of nea nei mod is des .
sta wit a hyp set h , thi tec use tra dat and cro - val to gra red h .
how , man of the app lis her hav not bee pro in the con of lea mor tha one tas .
it sho be not tha the inv app bea som res to tra sch fou in the con of aut dri and let rec .
sim and col ( sim et al . , 123 emp the tan - pro alg for rec han - pri let .
sin let rec sho be inv to tra and rot , the man pro zer - val tar slo in the dir of the inv , ver muc lik tho aut gen by ebn .
pom ( pom , 123 rep a sim tec tha was use for tra an aut veh .
bas on kno abo the rel of cam ima and ste dir , he con add tra dat tha wer use whe tra the net .
his tec can be vie as an app ver of sim ' s app .
in bot cas , dom kno was emp to inc inv int neu net lea .
the inv app pre her dif in tha a mod of the inv is con fro tra dat , mak it app in sit whe the app exp kno is not ava fro a hum des .
in the lif lea fra , the lea fac a col of rel lea tas .
the cha of thi fra is to tra kno acr tas , in ord to gen bet fro few tra exa of the tar fun its .
the exp res pre in thi pap prc cle evi of sup gen - iza in the obj rec dom , whe inv lea fro rel tas are use to aug the tra dat for a new obj rec tas .
how , the suc of thi inv app rel on sev cri ass :
" wel def inv fun res on the ass tha f obe the inv pro .
how , eve if the inv pro is onl app sat by f , the sup set can be use to tra an inv net .
thi net wil , in the ide cas , app the exp a - val .
the obj rec dom pre abo pro an exa in whi the inv pro may hol onl app .
thi is bec dif obj may loo ali in the coa - gra , noi ima , in whi cas the vio the
" it is als ass tha fun in f pos cer inv whi can act be lea by the inv net .
thi fac doe not fol fro the inv pro .
the exa inv tha wil be lea dep cru on the inp rep and fun app use for a .
" we als ass tha the out spa 123 of fun in f is bin .
how , thi ass is not ess for the inv app .
in pri , inv fun may be def for arb , hig - dim out spa , giv tha a not of dif bet out vec is ava .
for exa , if the fun spa f con mul - , rn , the can vec dif dim rea - val fun of the typ f : wm r ) est a loc inv tk : r12 , , ope and hen an inv fun .
thi fun , how , dif fro a use in the bin cas in tha no cle cla bou are def , and no dis is mad bet pos and neg exa .
, r wit trk ( i , j ) = ifk ( i ) -
fk ( j ) i ( i , e
in the exp rep abo , all thr ass wer at lea app ful .
we con tha the rea wor off a var of tas whe lea inv can boo gen .
for exa , pro suc as fac rec , cur han rec , sto mar pre and spe rec , whi pos non - tri but imp inv - anc .
for exa , con the pro of lea to rec fac of var ind .
her cer asp are imp for the suc rec ( e . g . , the dis bet the eye ) , whe oth are les imp ( e . g . , the dir in whi the per is loo ) .
aft tra on a num of ind , we con tha the inv net mig gra som of the inv , red the dif of lea fac of new ind .
it sho be not tha in thi pap lif lea is app to one par cla of lea pro , nam bin cla tas .
in thi con , sev res ass hav
bee mad , mos of whi are ado fro sta sup lea .
it is ass tha all fun ( and hen all ins in x and y ) are dra fro a mon fun cla f , in whi all fun sha the sam inp and out spa .
mor , 123 is res to be ( 123 , l ) .
in app the inv net , fur ass wer mad on the rel of the tar fun in f .
the lif lea fra , how , is mor gen .
it onl spe tha a lea enc a mul of rel lea tas ove its ent lif .
the tas of the lea nee not nec be cla .
for exa , lif lea can be stu in fun app , uns lea , con lea or oth lea par .
it is als not req tha the sup set , whi con rel tra dat , and the tra set ste fro a cla of fun sha a com inp and out spa .
for exa , con lea may ben fro tra dat col in a cla dom , alt the con fun ope ove dif inp and out spa .
for exa , in ( mit and thr , 123 and ( thr , 123 ) con lea is stu in a lif lea fra .
in con lea , the tar fun f* is a con fun whi map per , den by s e s , to act , den by a e a :
fp : s - - - - a
act , whe exe by the age , res in som sca pen / rew , and the goa of lea is to max rew .
a pop met for lea con is rei lea ( bar et al . , to app ) , ( sut , 123 , ( wat and day , 123
rei lea con val fun tha can be use to sel opt act .
emb in a lif lea fra , a con lea age may fac a var of con lea tas ove its lif .
as sho in ( mit and thr , 123 , lea act mod , whi are fun of the typ
g : s - - - + s ,
can sig red the amo of tra req for sub con lea tas .
ebn is use to tra kno acr tas , as in the inv app pre in thi
the lif lea pro can als be und as a met - lev lea pro .
con , for exa , its app to cla , as pre in thi pap .
eac tra exa at the met - lev cor to a who sup set xk at the bas - lev .
the set of sup set y = ( xk ) thu for the set of tra exa at the met - lev .
the tes set is x , whi is the set of tra exa for the tar fun f* at the bas - lev .
a con ass to be mad is tha the bas - lev hyp spa h is a sup of f .
the , the hyp spa at the met - lev is a set of res on h , or , in oth wor , a set of sub of h .
the goa of lea on the met - lev is to rec f ( or fin a min sup of f ) as a hyp spa for the bas - lev .
eac tra exa xk red the met - lev hyp spa .
if f is a can hyp in the met - hyp spa , one exp tha in the lim h = f is the onl hyp lef at the met - lev .
sin eac sup set cha a fun in f , eve tra exa at the met - lev wil be a pos exa of the tar
con f .
cle , the can be no use bia - fre lea at the met - lev any mor tha the can be at the bas - lev .
how , des the str sim bet sta sup lea and met - lea , the are sig dif .
giv a par tar fun , f e f , the ult goa of lea is to min the pre err for f* .
rec f is a sec goa , sin it is use onl in sup of lea f * .
x , whi est a sin tes pat in the met - lev , doe not spe f* uni .
ins , it pro a pot sma and noi set of inp - out exa of f* .
in add , exa on the met - lev may var in len , sin the num of tra exa in a sup set may var .
in ord to lea at the met - lev , mor fle enc are nee tha tho tha are typ stu in sup lea .
the inv net est one par suc enc , whi wor onl if the ori fun spa f hol the inv pro .
the inv net doe not dir des a hyp cla - rat , it imp sha con tha , whe inc int the tra of the bas - lev rec , con its spa of hyp .
the cen que of thi pap is whe lea can be mad eas whe the lea has alr lea oth rel tas .
wil a sys tha is " tra " to lea gen bet tha a nov lea ? thi pap pro enc res in an obj rec dom .
how , mos que tha ari in the con of lif lea sti lac sat , mor gen ans .
we exp tha fut res in thi dir wil be imp to goi bey the int bou ass wit lea sin iso fun .
we tha ast tel for tho com on an ear dra of thi pap .
