the wor wid web is a vas sou of inf acc to com , but und onl to hum .
the goa of the res des her is to aut cre a com und kno bas who con mir tha of the wor wid web .
suc a kno - edg bas wou ena muc mor eff ret of web inf , and pro new use of the web to sup kno - bas inf and pro sol .
our app is to dev a tra inf ext sys tha tak two inp .
the fir is an ont tha def the cla ( e . g . , com , per , emp , pro ) and rel ( e . g . , emp . by , pro . by ) of int whe cre the kno bas .
the sec is a set of tra dat con of lab reg of hyp tha rep ins of the cla and rel .
giv the inp , the sys lea to ext inf fro oth pag and hyp on the web .
thi pap des our gen app , sev mac lea alg for thi tas , and pro ini res wit a pro sys tha has cre a kno bas des uni peo , cou , and res pro .
thi res has bee sup in par by the dar hpk pro und res con f12 - 123 - 123 - 123
the vie and con con in thi doc are tho of the aut and sho not be int as rep the off pol , eit exp or imp , of dar or the
dti qua ins 123
key : inf ext , mac lea , wor wid web , kno
bas , web spi , tex cla , rel lea .
the opp 123
ove of the web sys 123
pro for 123
exp tes 123
lea to rec cla ins 123
sta tex cla 123
app 123
exp eva 123
fir - ord tex cla 123
app 123
exp eva 123
com lea 123
app
exp eva 123
ide mul - pag seg 123
app 123
exp eva ; 123
sec sum 123
lea to rec rel ins 123
pro rep 123
lea met 123
exp eva 123
lea to ext tex fie 123
app 123
exp eva
rel wor 123
doc cla 123
inf ext 123
ext sem inf fro hyp 123
ext kno bas fro the web 123
web age 123
con and fut wor 123
a obt mor eve dis sco fro nai bay 123
the opp
the ris of the wor wid web has mad it pos for you wor to ret ove 123 , 123 , 123 web pag for you per per .
the web has alr bec one of the lar and mos div sou of inf on the pla , and man exp it to gro int the wor ' s pri kno res ove the nex dec .
the res des her is mot by a sim obs : alt you wor - sta can cur ret ove 123 , 123 , 123 web pag , it cur und non of the web pag .
the goa of our web res pro is to aut cre a com - und kno bas who con mir tha of the wor wid web .
suc a " wor wid kno bas " wou con of com und as - ser in sym , pro for ( e . g . , emp . by ( mar , car ) , pro . 123 ) .
we exp suc a wor wid kno bas wou hav man use .
at a min , it wou all muc mor eff inf ret by sup que suc as " fin all uni wit 123 mil of pit tha off eve cou on jav pro . " goi a ste fur , it wou ena new use of the web to sup kno - bas inf and pro sol .
for exa , it wou pro the kno - edg bas nee by a sof tra age tha mig han req suc as " mak me hot and fli arr for the upc acm con . " not tha inf abo the acm con , nea hot , and fli is alr ava in hum - rea for , spr acr mul tex pag on the web .
a kno bas tha mak thi in - for com - und wou sup a var of int kno - bas
how mig we con and mai suc a wor wid kno bas ? the the exp in thi pap is tha one can dev suc a kno bas by ( 123 ) usi mac lea to cre inf ext met for eac of the des typ of kno - edg , the ( 123 ) app the lea inf ext met to ext sym , pro sta dir fro web hyp .
eac ass in the kno bas can the car wit it a jus , in ter of the web sou and inf ext met , tha pro its evi sup .
as the web evo ove tim , the cur val of kno bas fac can be tes by ver the con evi
thi pap exp the abo the by pro and eva sev lea alg - rit rel to thi inf ext tas , and by pre the pro we - bkb sys whi has suc bui up a kno bas con sev tho ass abo com sci dep usi the lea inf ext .
we beg by bri sur the cap of the web sys in the nex sec .
the sub sec con in det the rep ass und our app .
the rem sec pre our exp tes , sev lea alg - rit and exp res for the var inf ext tas , rel wor ,
( " fun of cs hom pag
ins . of : jim , tom
res : web pro
! cou . tau . by : fun , of cs , . . .
fun of cs hom pag
jim ' s hom pag
i tea sev cou : - fun of cs .
my res inc
int web age
fig 123 : the inp and out of the web kb sys .
the top par of the fig sho an ont tha def the cla and rel of int .
the bot par sho two web pag ide as tra exa of the cla cou and fac .
tog , the two pag als con a tra exa for the rel ins . of and cou . tau . by .
giv the ont and a set of tra dat , web lea to int add web pag and hyp to add new ins to the kno bas , suc as tho sho in the mid of the fig .
ove of the web sys
the web sys is fir tra to ext inf of the des typ , and is the all to bro new web sit in ord to aut pop a kno bas wit new ass .
whe tra thi sys , the use mus pro two inp :
a spe of the cla and rel of int .
thi is the ont tha def the voc for the tar kno bas .
an exa of suc an ont is pro in the top hal of fig 123
thi par ont def a hie of cla inc per , stu , res . pro , cou , etc .
it als def rel bet the cla suc as adv . of ( whi rel an ins of a stu to the ins of fac who are the adv of the giv stu ) .
thi ont con the ini ver of the kno bas .
tra exa tha des ins of the ont cla and rel .
for exa , the two web pag sho at the bot of fig 123 rep ins of cou and fac cla .
fur , thi pai of pag rep an ins of the rel cou . tau . by ( i . e . , the cou . tau . by jim inc fun -
giv suc an ont and a set of tra exa , the web sys lea gen pro for ext new ins of the cla and rel fro the web .
in the cur pro , thi is acc by lea to cla arb web pag and hyp pat acc to the cla and rel def by the ont .
whe exp the web , the web sys sta fro a giv inp url and exp pag usi a bre - fir sea to fol lin .
eac exp pag is exa , usi lea cla des , to see if it rep a mem of one of the ont cla .
if a pag is a cla mem , an ent rep tha pag is pla int the kno bas , and the ont rel for tha pag are ins bas on lea rul and the kno loc str of the web .
if a pag is not a cla mem , the sea is tru , and lin fro thi pag are not fol .
in one suc cra exp the sys was giv a tra set of app 123 , 123 web pag and 123 , 123 web - pag pai tak fro the com sci dep web sit at fou uni ( cor , uni of tex at aus , uni of was , and uni of wis ) .
the tra exa wer han lab acc to the ont sho in fig 123
the sys was the all to exp the web sit of a fif com sci dep ( at car mel uni ) , and to add new kno bas ent bas on inf ext fro thi new web sit .
two new ins add by the sys to its kno bas , as a res of bro thi new uni web sit , are sho in fig 123
the top ins des a new fac add to the kno bas , as a res of exa a web pag tha the sys cla int thi cat .
as a res , the sys cre the new fac ins in the kno bas , and ext sev rel inv thi ins .
for exa , it det ( cor - rec ) the nam of thi fac mem , a cou tau by the fac mem , and thr
( nam " dav gar " )
( mem . of . pro ( +br - spi *da - gar *ra - mel
fig 123 : two of the ent aut ext fro the cmu com sci dep web sit aft tra on fou oth uni com sci sit .
the ent are add as new ins of fac and pro to the kno bas sho in fig 123
stu fac per res . pro cou dep ove
tab 123 : cla ins rec acc whe exp cmu com sci dep web sit , aft tra on com sci dep at fou oth uni .
ins of the pro . of rel for thi fac mem : *ar - mis , *cm - cs - cgm - s12 - sys - h12 - pag , and *ab - pro .
the thr pro are the ins of the res . pro cla , ext fro oth web pag .
the des of one of the , the *ab - pr1 jec , is sho at the bot of the
how acc is the sys in ext suc inf ? in thi exp , the sys vis 123 web pag at the new car mel sit , and as a res add 123 new cla ins to its kno bas .
the fra of cor ext ins is sum in tab 123
for exa , thi tab ind tha the sys cre 123 new kno bas ins of the cla cou .
of the 123 new ins , 123 in fac rep cou and the oth 123 did not .
its acc in ext rel ins is sum in a sim fas in tab 123
not tha sin we don ' t hav a lab for all the pag and rel at car mel , we hav no way of cal cov res for the tas .
fig 123 sho the inf dis by the sys as it bro .
not thi dis sho the web pag tha is cur bei vis ( top rig ) , and the inf ext by the sys fro thi web pag ( mid lef ) .
the int als con a con pan
123 tt^ kt ^12 flm -
edi vte go boo opt dir win
t - ^ a t w ( ope i fli ; fmd
! i hon
wha ' s hew ? ) wha ' s coo ? - ues net spa iei sul
com : ;co |ba |su ? p ( qui
stn ? vf# w>| / j ' vww . e# . <si , ecf / ftk
avr l .
blu ass pro of com sci
dep of com sci car mel uni pit pa 123 - 123
off : wea 123 tel : ( 123 ) 123 - 123
me hak htc : ffw , eb , c
ast *s fac wit see - 123
my mea res ear int are mac lea the , app alg , and on - lin alg .
i als am wor ono .
a gra - alg str - lik dom .
i was rec pro com co - cha for col ' 123 ( the nin ann con on com l ear the ) , and on the pro gra c omm for sod ' 123 ( the eig ann acm - sia sym on dis hie cur u . ent
fac fca 123 cou fou : 123 123 ' tou 123
fig 123 : the web int to the web kb sys .
the upp lef pan ser as a con pan .
the mid lef pan des the cur act of the web kb sys , and the low lef pan sum the ses .
the upp rig pan sho the pag cur bei pro , and the low rig pan pro a mec for bro the ext kno bas .
ins . of mem . of .
pro dep . of ove
tab 123 : rel ins rec acc whe exp cmu com sci dep web sit , aft tra on com sci dep at fou oth uni .
tha all the use to int wit the sys ( top lef ) , and to bro the gro kno bas ( bot rig ) .
pro for
as sum in the pre sec , the web sys pro exp sup for our the tha a sys can be tra to aut pop a kno bas by bro web hyp .
lat sec des in det the lea alg use by thi web sys .
in thi sec , we con the pre pro for and the rep ass tha und our cur app .
to sum , we are int in the fol gen pro :
- an ont tha def the cla ( e . g . , per ) and rel ( e . g . , ins . of )
- tra exa fro the web tha des ins of the cla and rel -
- gen pro cap of ext add ins of the cla and
rel by bro the res of the web .
not tha we do not nec ext new ins for all of the cla and rel in the ont .
for exa , our ont may hav a cla cou alo wit ins for all of the cou in the wor .
in thi cas , sin we alr kno all ins , we do not nee to lea pro to rec new one .
to pur the pro of lea to ext ins fro the web , we mus mak som ass abo the typ of kno to be ext fro the web , and the way in whi thi kno is rep in hyp on the web .
the ass are :
ass abo how cla ins are des on the web .
we ass tha eac ins of an ont cla is rep by one or mor con seg of hyp on the web .
by " con seg of hyp " we mea eit a sin web pag , or a con str of tex wit a web pag , or a col of sev web pag int by hyp .
for exa , an ins of a per mig be des by a sin pag ( the per ' s hom pag ) , or by a ref to the per in a str of tex wit an arb web pag , or by a col of int web pag tha joi des the per .
ass abo how rel ins are des on the web .
con an ar - bit ins r ( a , b ) of a rel r .
we ass tha eac ins of a rel is rep on the web in one of thr way .
fir , the ins r ( a , b ) may be rep by a seg of hyp tha con the seg rep a to the seg rep b .
for exa , the bot of fig 123 sho two hyp tha con the seg rep jim wit the seg rep fun - tal . of . cs .
the hyp rep the rel ins . of ( fun . of . cs , jim ) .
sec , the ins r ( a , b ) may alt be rep by a con seg of tex rep a tha con the seg tha rep b .
for exa - ple , the rel ins res . of ( jim , hum . com . int ) is rep in fig 123 by the fac tha jim ' s hom pag con the phr " hum com in - ter " in a par con .
fin , the ins r ( a , b ) may be rep by the fac tha the hyp seg for a sat som lea mod for rel to b .
for exa , we mig ext the ins res . of ( jim , art . int ) by cla jim ' s pag usi a sta mod of the wor typ fou in pag des ai res .
in add to the ass abo the map bet web hyp and the ont , we mak sev sim ass in our ini res rep in thi pap .
we pla to rel the fol ass in the fut as our res pro .
we ass in thi pap tha eac cla ins is rep by a sin web pag ( e . g . , a per is rep by the hom pag ) .
if an ins hap to be des by mul pag ( e . g . , if a per is des by the hom pag plu a col of nei pag des the pub , hob , etc . ) , our cur sys is tra to cla onl the pri hom pag as the des of the per , and to ign the nei aff pag .
alt , if an ins hap to be des by a tex fra , our sys doe not cur cre a kno bas ins for thi .
it doe , how , ext cer rel val fro suc tex fra ( e . g . , the nam of the per , as ill in fig 123 ) .
we ass tha eac cla ins is rep by a sin con seg of hyp .
in oth wor , if the sys enc two non - con web pag tha rep ins of the sam cla , it cre two dis ins of thi cla in its kno bas .
whi thi ass wil oft be sat ( e . g . , two dis per hom pag typ rep two dis peo ) , the are cle
exc ( e . g . , the are man dif web pag des elv ) .
ove thi " mul elv pro " wil req met tha hyp equ bet ind dis ins .
we ass tha all rel are two - pla rel tha is , ' eac rel has onl two arg .
we bel tha it wil be fai eas to rel thi ass .
giv thi pro def and our cur set of ass , we vie the fol as the thr pri lea tas tha are inv in ext kno - bas ins fro the web :
rec cla ins by cla bod of hyp .
sec 123 loo at thi pro , usi bot sta and rel lea tec .
it als exa how to rel our ass abo cla ins bei rep by sin web
rec rel ins by cla cha of hyp .
sec 123 inv -
gat a rel lea sol to thi pro .
rec cla and rel ins by ext sma fie of tex fro web
sec 123 loo at thi tas and als use a rel lea app .
exp tes
all exp rep in thi pap are bas on the ont for com sci dep sho in fig 123
thi ont inc the cla dep , fac , sta , stu , res . pro , and cou .
our web pag cla exp als use the cla oth as the lab for web pag tha fal int non of the ont cla .
eac ont cla has an ass set of slo , or rel , tha exi amo ins of thi cla and oth cla ins in the ont .
for exa , the cou cla has a slo cal ins . of tha rel cou to peo .
we ass two dat set for the exp rep her .
the fir is a set of pag and hyp dra fro fou cs dep : uni of tex at aus , cor uni , uni of was , and uni of wis .
the sec is a set of pag fro num oth com sci dep .
the fou - dep set inc 123 , 123 pag and 123 , 123 hyp int the .
the sec set inc 123 , 123 add pag .
the pag for mos of the cla in our dat set wer col usi " ind " pag for our cla of int ( e . g . , a pag tha has hyp to all of the stu in a dep ) , so lab thi dat was str .
aft gat thi ini set of pag , we the col eve pag tha was bot ( i ) poi to by a hyp
123 the dat set are pub ava at htt : / / www .
edu / af s / cs .
edu / pro / the - 123 /
in the ini set , and ( ii ) fro the sam uni as the pag poi to it .
mos of the pag gat in the sec ste wer lab as oth .
in add to lab pag , we als han - lab rel ins .
eac of the rel ins con of a pai of pag cor to the cla ins inv in the rel .
for exa , an ins of the ins . of rel con of a cou hom pag and a per hom pag .
our dat set of rel ins com 123 ins . of ins , 123 mem . of . pro ins , and 123 mem . of . dep ins .
the ins are all fro the fou - dep set .
fin , we als lab the nam of the own of pag in the per cla .
thi was don aut by tag any tex fra in the per ' s hom pag tha mat the nam as it app in the hyp poi to the pag fro the ind pag .
the mat heu wer con , fav pre ove rec .
con , we bel tha , alt som nam occ wer mis , the wer no fal pos .
fro 123 per pag , thi pro yie 123 dis nam occ .
the ins are all fro the fou - dep set as wel .
for all of the sub exp in thi pap , we use a fou - fol cro - val met to eva our alg .
we con fou run in whi we tra cla usi dat fro thr of the uni in our dat set ( plu the sec set of pag whe app ) , and tes the cla usi dat fro the rem uni .
on eac ite we hol out a dif uni for the tes set .
lea to rec cla ins
the fir tas for our sys is to ide new ins of ont cla fro the tex sou on the web .
in thi sec we add the cas in whi cla ins are rep - sen by web pag for exa , a giv ins of the stu cla is rep by the stu ' s hom pag .
in the fir par of thi sec we dis a sta bag - of - wor app to cla - fyi web pag .
we use thi met alo wit thr dif rep of pag .
in the sec par of thi sec we dis lea fir - ord rul to cla web pag .
thi app is app in tha fir - ord rul can des pag cla usi a ric de - scr of the loc gra str aro the pag .
fin , we eva the eff of com the pre mad by all fou of the cla .
sta tex cla
in thi sec we con cla web pag usi sta met .
our app is sim to a gro bod of wor in tex cla tha inv usi a so - cal bag of wor or uni rep .
how , we app our met in nov way tha tak adv of the red of hyp .
spe , we tra thr ind cla
whi use dif rep for pag cla :
ful - tex : the wor tha occ any in the pag ,
tit / hea : the wor tha occ in the tit and htm hea of the pag ,
hyp : the wor tha occ in hyp ( i . e . , the wor in the anc tex ) tha
poi to the pag .
our app inv bui a pro mod of eac cla usi lab tra dat , and the cla new see pag by sel the cla tha is mos pro giv the evi of wor des the new pag .
the met tha we use for cla web pag is nai bay , wit min mod bas on kul - lei div .
giv a doc d to cla , we cal a sco for eac cla c as fol :
whe n is the num of wor in d , t is the siz of the voc , and w ( is the tth wor in the voc .
pr ( wi\ ) thu rep the pro of dra to , - giv a doc fro cla c , and pr ( wi\ ) rep the fre of occ of w ( in doc d .
the cla pre by the met for a giv doc is sim the cla wit the gre sco .
thi met mak exa the sam cla as nai bay , but pro cla sco tha are les ext .
bel we exp nai bay in app 123 we det our mod to it .
the pro mod we use ign the seq in whi the wor occ .
the mod are oft cal uni or bag - of - wor mod bec the are bas on sta abo sin wor in iso .
sin the uni mod nai ass tha the pre of eac wor in a doc is con ind of all oth wor in the the doc giv its cla , thi app , whe use wit bay rul is oft cal nai bay .
the ind as - sum is cle fal , and it pro obv inc cla - mem pro .
how , it is oft the cas tha eve whe the ass doe not hol and nai bay pro ina pro est , it sti is abl to cla tes exa wit hig
the are two com app to nai bay tex cla .
one , the mul - var ber mod , is a bay net wit no dep bet wor and bin wor cou the doc is con to be the " eve " and the wor are fea
oft eve .
the oth app , the mul mod , is a uni lan mod wit int wor cou the wor are con to " eve " and the doc is com of a col of the eve .
we use the sec app , sin it has bee fou to out - per the fir on sev dat set ( 123 ) .
we for nai bay for tex cla as fol .
giv a set of cla c = ( ci , . . . c|c ) and a doc con of n wor , ( wi , w12 , . . . wn ) , we cla the doc as a mem of the cla , c , tha is mos pro , giv the wor in the doc :
c = arg ( c|t , . . . , t ( ;n )
we tra pr ( c|i , . . . , wn ) int a com exp by rep app bay rul to the ind wor in pr ( c|w , . . . , wn ) ( eq .
123 ) and ass tha wor are ind - pen of eac oth ( eq .
we als dro the den ( eq .
123 ) , sin thi ter is a con acr all cla .
pr ( c\w , . . . , wn ) = pre ) ) . ) . - ; r ~ ( 123 )
" pr ( iu , - |c ) , . , - pr ( c ) il p / \ ( 123 )
oc pr ( c ) npr ) ( 123 )
the mod tha tra thi tra for of nai bay int the for
we use ( sho in equ 123 ) are des in app 123
est wor pro
a key ste in imp nai bay is est the wor pro , pr ( to , - |c ) .
to mak our pro est mor rob wit res to inf enc wor , we use a smo met to mod the pro tha wou hav bee obt by sim eve cou .
one imp eff of smo is tha it avo ass pro val of zer to wor tha do not occ in the tra dat for a par cla .
sin nai bay inv tak a pro of wor pro , a sin zer for a cla wou pre tha cla fro bei the max eve if the are man oth wor tha str ind tha cla .
rat tha smo wit the com lap est ( i . e . , add one to all the wor cou for a cla ) , we use wit - bel smo ( 123 ) , whi we hav fou to per bet on sev dat set .
wit - bel set pr ( to , - |c )
whe at ( iw , - , c ) is the cou of the num of tim wor wi occ in the tra dat for
cla c , tc is the tot num of uni wor in cla c , and t is the tot num of uni wor acr all cla .
ano imp imp iss is dec upo the voc siz to be use for the pro dom .
we hav fou emp tha we get sli mor acc cla whe usi a res voc siz .
thu we lim our voc to 123 wor in all of our exp .
the voc is sel by ran wor acc to the ave mut inf wit res to the cla lab .
we wri w ( for a ran var ind whe wor to , - is pre or abs in a doc , and wri v ( ( wu ^wi ) for the val it tak on .
we wri c for a ran var tak val of all the cla lab , c <e c .
the , ave mut inf is
i ( c;w ) = h ( c ) - h ( c\w ) ( 123 ) = - epr ( c ) log ( pr ( c ) ) ( 123 )
- - e pr ( 123 ) ep^ ) log ( pr ( ck ) ) ( 123 )
e erl f^f . ) ( io )
thi fea sel met has bee fou to per bes amo sev alt
( 123 ) , and has bee use in man tex cla stu ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
exp eva
we eva our met usi the cro - val met des in sec 123
on eac ite of the cro - val run , we tra a cla for eac of the pag rep - sen des at the beg of thi sec : ful - tex , tit / hea , and hyp .
tab 123 sho the res con mat ( sum ove the fou tes set ) for the ful - tex cla .
eac col of the mat rep one cla and sho how the ins of thi cla are cla .
eac row rep the ins tha are pre to bel to a giv cla , and sho the tru cla of the ins .
thi tab ill sev int res .
fir , not tha for mos cla , our cla are qui acc .
for exa , 123 of the cou and 123 of the fac ins are cor cla .
the not exc to thi tre is the oth cla onl 123 of the ins bel to thi cla are cor cla .
we dis thi res in mor det bel .
a sec int - ing res is tha man of the rem mis mad by the cla inv con dif sub of per .
for exa , alt onl 123 of the sta ins are cor ass to the sta cat , 123 of the are cor cla int the mor gen cla of per .
as thi res sug , not all mis are equ har eve whe we fai to cor cla an ins int one of the lea cla in our ont , we
123 - > o <u . c u k .
123 123 123 123 123 123
v - 123 o
tab 123 : a con mat sho ful - tex cla res com acr all of the fou - uni tes run .
the ove cov and acc are als sho .
can sti mak man cor inf abo the ins if we cor ass it to a mor
the low lev of cla acc for the oth cla is lar exp by the nat of thi cla .
rec fro sec 123 tha the ins of thi cla wer col by gat pag tha wer one hyp awa fro the ins in the oth six cla .
for thi rea , man of the ins of the oth cla hav con , and hen wor sta , ver sim to ins in one of the " cor " cla .
for exa , whe the hom pag for a cou wil bel to the cou cla , " sec " pag for the cou , suc as a pag des rea ass , wil bel to the oth cla .
alt the con of man of the pag in the oth cla mig sug tha the pro bel in one of the cor cla , our mot for not inc the in the cla is the fol .
whe our sys is bro the web and add new ins to the kno bas , we wan to ens tha we do not add mul ins tha cor to the sam rea - wor obj .
for exa , we sho not add two new ins to the kno bas whe we enc a cou hom pag and its sec pag lis the rea ass .
bec of thi req , we hav fra our pag cla tas as one of cor rec the " pri " pag for the cla of int .
as tab 123 ind , thi is a ver dif tas , but as we wil sho sho , by com sev sou of evi for eac pag , it is one we can per wit hig acc .
one way to obt ins int the lea cla is to ask whi wor con mos hig to the qua sco ( d ) for eac cla .
to mea thi , we use one of our
tab 123 : the top ten mos hig wei wor .
for eac cla , the tab sho the ten wor tha are mos hig wei by one of our lea ful - tex mod .
the wei sho rep the wei log - odd rat of the wor giv the cla .
the sym d is use to rep an arb dig .
for exa , the top wor sho for the fac cla , ddd , rep any fou - dig tok ( suc as tha occ in a pho num ) .
tra set to cal
for eac wor wi and cla c .
fig 123 sho the ten wor for eac cla tha hav the gre val of thi wei log - odd rat .
as the tab ill , mos of the hig wei wor are int pro for the cla .
the exc to thi gen - iza are mos fro the sta cla , for whi the is lit tra dat , and the oth cla , whi rep an ext div set of pag .
ano int res ill by thi tab is tha man wor whi are con - tio inc in sto lis are hig wei by our mod .
for exa , the wor my , me , and am are typ sto - lis wor but the are amo the top ten wor for the stu cla .
alt the are com wor , the are cle pre of the stu cla sin fir - per pro and ver con do not app fre on pag in the oth cla .
thi res sug tha it is adv to sel a voc in a dom spe way ( as we did usi mut inf ) , ins of usi a gen pur
one app to imp cla acc is to lim the pre mad by the cla to jus tho pre in whi the are mos con .
thi is eas ach wit our met bec the qua sco ( d ) cal whe cla a pag can be tak as a mea of the con in the cla .
by set a min thr on thi con , we can sel a poi tha sac som cov in ord to obt inc acc .
giv our goa of aut ext kno bas inf fro the web , it is des to beg wit a hig - acc cla , eve if we nee to lim cov to onl 123 of the 123 , 123 , 123 pag ava on the web .
the eff of tra off cov for acc usi our ful - tex cla is sho in fig 123
the hor axi on thi plo rep cov : the per of pag for a giv cla tha are cor cla as bel to the cla .
the ver axi rep acc : the per of pag cla int a giv cla tha are act mem of tha cla .
to und the res , con , for exa , the cla stu .
as the res in tab 123 sho , whe the cla pre tha a pag bel to the stu cla the are cor 123 of the tim .
the rig poi on the stu cur in the tab 123 cor to thi poi .
as we rai the con thr for thi cla , how , the acc of our pre ris .
for exa , at a cov of 123 , acc rea a lev of 123 .
so far , we hav dis the res onl for the ful - tex cla .
fig 123 and 123 sho the acc / cov cur for the hyp and tit / hea cla , res .
as bef , the cur sho the agg res for all fou tes set in our cro - val
123 a sto lis is a set of wor tha are rem fro doc bef the are pro by an inf - ret or tex - cla sys .
the are sta sto lis whi inc wor gen tho to con lit inf abo the doc top .
res .
pro *
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for ful - tex cla .
pre wit eac cla are ord acc to the con .
eac cur sho the beh of the cla as a thr on thi con is var .
the z - axi rep the per of pag for a giv cla tha are cor cla bel to the cla .
the j / - axi rep the per of pag ass to a giv cla tha act mem of tha cla .
123 123 123
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for hyp cla .
>> i 123
uuy 123 123 123 123
stu - +
123 : l k .
\ " el . .
*
\ \ " b ,
b - ^ - - b - q .
' * o n n " ^^f , .
i12 ^ v - v - $t^ * x . . .
\ ia
" x - x \
x \ \
; < 123 123 123 123 123
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for tit / hea cla .
as we dis ear , one of the asp tha dis lea in hyp fro lea in fla - tex dom is tha hyp pro mul , som ind sou of evi for the mea of a giv pie of tex .
as we hyp , the res in fig 123 and 123 ind tha the mul sou of evi can be pot exp to mak bet pre .
con , for exa , the acc of the dep pre mad by the hyp cla .
whe the ful - tex cla are onl 123 acc at ful cov , the hy - per cla are 123 acc .
mor , the dep acc / cov cur for the hyp cla is uni sup to the cur for the ful - tex cla .
the rea for thi dif in acc is tha alt our dat set inc few dep pag fro whi to gen , it inc man hyp tha poi to dep pag .
thu the hyp cla hav rel lar sam of dat fro whi to lea the wor sta of hyp tha poi to dep pag , and sim the hav a fai lar num of hyp on whi to bas the pre whe cla a pag aft
the tit / hea cla als ill cas in whi usi a hyp - bas rep - sen for pag cla can res in bet pre acc tha sim usi a fla - tex rep .
the tit / hea cla ' cur for bot the fac and re - sea . pro cla , for exa , are bet tha the cor cur for the ful - tex cla at cov lev of 123 and les .
one exp for thi res is tha tit and hea pro som of a sum of a giv pag and thu ten to con wor tha are hig pre of the pag ' s cla .
fir - ord tex cla
as not pre , the hyp str of the web can be tho of as a gra in whi web pag are the nod of the gra and hyp are the edg .
the met for cla web pag tha we dis in the pre sec con the wor in eit a sin nod of the gra or in a set of edg imp on the sam nod .
how , the met do not all us to lea mod tha tak int acc suc fea as the pat of con aro a giv pag , or the wor occ in nei pag .
it mig be pro to lea , for exa , a rul of the for " a pag is a cou hom pag if it con the wor tex and ta and is lin to a pag tha con the wor ass . " rul of thi typ , tha are abl to rep gen cha of a gra , req a fir - ord rep .
in thi sec , we con the tas of lea to cla pag usi a lea tha is abl to ind fir - ord rul .
the lea alg tha we use in thi sec is qui ' s foi alg ( 123 , 123 ) .
foi is a gre cov alg for lea fun - fre hor cla
foi ind eac hor cla by beg wit an emp tai and usi a hil - cli sea to add lit to the tai unt the cla cov onl ( mos ) pos ins .
the eva fun use for the hil - cli sea is an inf - the mea .
the rep we pro to the lea alg con of the fol bac -
has ? ( pag ) : thi set of rel ind whi wor occ in whi pag .
eac boo rel ind the pag in whi the wor wor occ .
the voc for thi set inc ste wor tha hav at lea 123 occ but tha do not occ in mor tha 123 of the tra - set pag .
the two con wer sel wit the int of ass a voc of rea siz tha wou lik inc the wor wit the mos dis pow .
we had bet 123 and 123 of the pre in eac of the cro - val run .
lin ( pag , pag ) : thi rel rep the hyp tha int the pag in the dat set .
we app foi to lea a sep set of cla for six of the sev cla con in the pre sec
we do not lea a des of the oth cla , but ins tre it as a def cla .
123 use the ter cla and rul int
123 ref to the pro of heu red wor to the roo for .
for exa the wor
com , com and com wou be ste to the roo com .
123 is a vef of foi spe des for mul - cla pro suc as our .
we fou , how ,
tha the ind bia of thi ver is not wel sui to our par tas .
whe cla tes ins , we cal an ass mea of con alo wit eac pre .
we cal the con val for two rea .
fir , we use the to res con pre fro our six ind lea rul set .
sec , we are int in mea how the acc of our lea rul set var as we adj
we use the fol pro to cal the con of eac of our pre .
fir , we est the err rat of eac of our lea cla by cal an m - est ( 123 ) ( wit m = 123 ) of the rul ' s err ove the tra exa .
we the use the sco to sor the cla in ord of des acc . 123 to int the pre of our six ind lea cla , we use the fol pro :
if no cla had a rul tha mat the giv pag , the we pre oth wit
if onl one cla had a mat rul , the we pre the ass cla wit con - fid cor to the rul ' s sco .
the oth cla is pre wit con of one min thi sco .
if mor tha one cla has a mat rul for the giv exa , the we pre eac cla wit con equ to the sco of its bes mat rul div by the tot num of cla tha had mat rul .
the oth cla is pre wit a con val tha wou mak the tot con sum to one .
exp eva
for the exp rep her , we use rel 123 of foi wit the def set .
as wit the exp in sec 123 , we use a fou - fol cro - val met .
the res acc / cov plo for eac cla is sho in fig 123
com the res to tho in fig 123 , one can see tha alt the fir - ord rul gen pro low cov tha the sta cla , the pro sup acc for sev cla .
fig 123 sho thr of the rul lea by foi in its var cro - val run .
the lea rul for cou sho her ill the pow of a fir - ord rep .
thi rul cla a pag as the hom pag for a cou if it pas thr gro of tes :
the pag has the wor ins , but doe ' t hav the wor goo .
123 cha doe not aff the cla mad by a lea set of cla .
it aff onl our
con ass wit eac pre .
123 the pap , we use a pro - lik syn for lea rul .
the sym : - rep the imp ope , wit the hea of the rul on the lef sid of the ope and the bod on the rig sid .
con , suc as the nam of our ont cla and rel , sta wit low let .
var sta wit upp let .
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for foi pag cla .
the pag con a hyp to a pag whi doe not con any hyp to
thi lin pag con the wor ass .
thi rul can be sum as fol :
pre tha a pag is a cou hom pag if it has the wor ins and is lin to a lea pag whi tal abo ass .
the sam rul lea for the stu cla com fro the cro - val run lea pag fro the uni of was out of the tra set .
not tha thi rul ref to a pag ( bou to the var b ) tha has two com fir nam on it ( pau and jam , the ste ver of jam ) .
thi rul ( and sim rul lea wit the oth thr tra set ) ill tha foi has lea to exp " stu dir " pag in ord to ide stu hom pag .
for exa , whe was is the tes set , all of the cor app of the rul bin b to a pag ent " gra stu at uw cs& " .
the fac rul wil not cla a pag as fac unl the is a pag con the ste var of fac tha poi int the giv pag .
all thr of the rul sho how web - pag cla is dif fro ord tex cla in tha nei pag may pro str evi abo the cla of a giv pag .
lea met whi can use thi inf eff sho per bet tha sta tec in thi dom .
stu ( a ) : - not ( has . cfa ( a ) ) , not ( has ( a ) ) , lin ( b , a ) , has ' ame ( b ) , bas . pau ( b ) , not ( has ( b ) ) .
tra set : 123 pos , 123 neg tes set : 123 pos , 123 neg
fac ( a ) : - has / ess ( a ) , has / ? ( a ) , lin ( b , a ) , has / acw ( b ) .
tra set : 123 pos , 123 neg tes set : 123 pos , 123 neg
cou ( a ) : - has ( a ) , not ( has ( a ) ) , lin ( a , b ) , not ( lin ( b , _l ) ) , has - ass ( b ) .
tra set : 123 pos , 123 neg tes set : 123 pos , 123 neg
fig 123 : a few of the rul lea by foi for cla pag .
com lea
the pre exp sho tha the bes rep for pag cla dep on the cla .
thi obs sug tha it mig be pro to com the pre mad by our fou cla .
in thi sec , we des and eva a sim app to
the met tha we emp for com the pre of our cla tak adv of the fac tha eac cla pro a mea of con alo wit eac pre .
the met we use is a sim vot sch tha use con val as tie - bre .
tha is , giv the pre mad by our fou cla for a giv web pag , we pre the cla tha has a plu of the vot mad by the ind cla , if the is one .
if no cla has a plu , the we sel the cla ass wit the hig con
in ord to ens tha the con mea out by our dif cla are com , we cal eac cla by ind a map fro its out sco to the pro of a pre bei cor .
we do thi by sim bin the sco pro by eac cla for a giv cla , and the mea the tra - set acc of the sco tha fal int eac bin .
exp eva
fig 123 sho the acc / cov cur for the vot pre .
by com thi fig to the acc / cov cur for the ful - tex cla sho in fig 123 one can see tha , in gen , mor acc pre are ach by con evi oth tha ful - tex whe cla pag .
at hig lev of cov , the vot cla are mor acc tha the ful - tex cla for the cou and dep cla .
add - tio , the res . pro pre mad by the vot cla are sig mor acc tha the ful - tex pre , alt the cov att by the vot cla is not as goo .
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for com cla wit voc siz of 123 wor .
alt fig 123 ind tha pre acc is hel in som cas by com - bin mul cla , the res of thi exp are som dis .
the acc / cov cur for the vot cla are not uni bet tha the cor - spo cur of the con cla .
ide , we wou lik the acc / cov cur for eac cla to be as goo or bet tha the bes cou cur amo the
we bel tha the res sho in fig 123 are dis bec our met for com the pre of mul cla is ove sim .
spe , we bel tha the met fai to acc map cla sco to est acc , and thu the com fun oft doe not " lis " to the rig cla .
int , we hav obs tha the vot met per muc bet whe our sta cla are lim to ver sma voc .
fig 123 sho the acc / cov cur for vot whe we use sta cla tra wit a voc siz of 123 wor .
in com thi fig to our bas ful - tex cla ( fig 123 ) , one can see tha the cur pro by the sma - voc vot met are gen sup to the ful - tex cla cur .
mor , the sma - voc vot cla ach thi res usi con cla tha wer not as acc as the 123 - wor voc cou .
in fut wor , we pla to tra neu net to per the com fun .
we hyp tha suc a com met wil be bet abl to exp the spe are of exp exh by our ind cla .
123 123 123
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for com cla wit voc siz of 123 wor .
ide mul - pag seg
as dis in sec 123 , our rep ass is tha eac cla ins in the kno bas cor to som con seg of hyp on the web .
thi all , for exa , tha a par stu mig be rep on the web by a sin web pag , or by a clu of int web pag cen aro the hom pag .
in the exp rep thu far , we hav eff mad a sim ass : tha eac ins is rep by a sin web pag .
in fac , in lab our tra dat , we enc a var of stu ( and ins of oth ont cla ) tha wer des by a sev int web pag rat tha a sin pag .
in the cas we han lab the pri hom pag as stu , and lab any int pag ass wit the sam stu as oth .
to rem thi sim ass we mus dev met for ide set of int pag tha rep a sin kno bas ins .
in thi sec we pre a set of han - wri heu tha ide gro of rel pag and als ide the " pri " hom pag in the gro .
we sho her tha cla acc in the pre sec is sig imp whe the heu are use to gro pag and to aut ass the lab oth to non - pri pag , to fit the ass we mad whi han lab the dat .
con the web pag of a pro fac mem .
she has a mai pag ( htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / ind . htm ) , a pag lis her pub ( htt : / / www . my .
edu / use / jdo / pub . htm ) , and a pag des her res int ( htt : / / www .
my . edu / use / jdo / wor / res . htm ) .
our wor ass abo ent - web re - lat ind tha we sho rec tha the pag cor to a sin ent , ide the bes rep pag for tha ent , cla tha pag as a fac , and cla - sif the res of the pag as oth .
we acc thi by sol two sub : gro rel pag tog , and ide the mos rep pag of a gro .
spe ( 123 ) ide reg in url str and nam , and pre sev heu for dis pag gro and ide rep hom pag .
we use a sim , sli exp , app .
in an ide sce , one cou ima try to lea the heu fro exa .
in the fol exp we hav ins pro the rul by han .
the mos obv gro tha can be ext fro a url are bas on dir - tor str pre .
key dir com of a url ind a log gro of web pag int an ent .
for exa , giv the url htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / res . htm , we can ded the exi of an ent cor to the url pre htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / , bec the key / use / in the pen dir pos typ ind the pre of a per ent in the dir spa den by jdo .
oth typ pen pre mar are / fac / , / peo / , / hom / , and / pro / .
thr ult pre mar ( in uni - sty glo pat ) are / cs ? ? ? / , / www / and / ~ * / , the fir bei a typ ind of a cou , and the las bei a typ - cal ind of the use of a per or org .
our alg gro url by the lon dir pre tha mat one of the giv pat .
in the eve tha no pat mat , the ent dir pre is use for the gro .
in our exa abo , the thr url wou eac hav the ent pre as htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / , and thu wou be gro tog .
app the gro heu res in set of web pag tha app a sin - gle ont ent .
fro the set , we ide the sin pri pag tha is mos rep of tha ent .
usu thi cor to the " hom pag " of the en - tit .
thu , we tak any pag tha has the fil pat " ind . htm " , " hom . htm " , " hom . htm " , or " cs ? ? ? . htm " and lab it the pri pag .
add , any pag in whi the com url is the dir pre , ( for exa , the url htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / ) or one in whi the fil mat the dir abo it ( as in htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / jdo . htm ) is als ide as a pri pag .
all pag tha do not mat any of the pat in a gro , are cla aut as oth .
in the eve tha no pag in a gro mat any of the heu , the pag wit the hig ( non - oth ) cla con is lab the pri pag .
in our exa - ple , htt : / / www . my . edu / use / jdo / ind . htm wou be cla as fac ( ass our cla was cor ) , and the oth pag wou be cla as oth reg of the
, p* 123 123 123
\ h ' 123 \ h ^
\ ~ +\ cou -
i<^ ~ *^ x . \ \ stu - + - - .
. b - b x\ * fac - q -
' et ' ' \ ^^ - res . pro *
' ba ' \^1 dep - * ' " " ej - .
\ . b ^^ sta - *
. x " " ' " " x x\ \
v ' ' x \ x * \ \
i i i i
123 123 123
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for the ful - tex cla aft the app of url heu .
exp eva
the imp of usi the url heu wit the ori ful - tex pag cla is sum - riz in fig 123
com the cur to fig 123 one can see the str inc in acc for any giv lev of cov acr all cla .
als not som deg in tot cov .
thi occ bec som pag tha wer pre cor cla hav bee mis as bei " sec " pag
sec sum
thi sec foc on the tas of rec cla ins by web pag cla .
we sho tha , bec hyp pro muc red inf , web pag can be cla usi sev sou of inf : the ful tex of pag , the tex in tit and hea , the tex ass wit hyp , tex in nei pag , and the fil org rep in url .
our exp sug tha non of the app alo is suf for rec ins of ont cla wit hig acc .
in the exp des in sec 123 , we use bot ful - tex cla and url heu .
we als sho in thi sec tha one pro lin of res is to com the pre of mul cla tha use dif sou of evi .
lea to rec rel ins
in the pre sec we dis the tas of lea to ext ins of ont cla fro the web .
our app to thi tas ass tha the cla ins of int are rep by who web pag or by clu of web pag .
in thi sec , we dis - cus the tas of lea to rec rel of int tha exi amo ext cla ins .
the hyp und our app is tha rel amo cla ins are oft rep by hyp pat in the web .
thu , the tas of lea to rec ins of suc rel inv ind rul tha cha the pro pat of the rel .
for exa , an ins of the ins . of rel mig be rep by a hyp dir fro the hom pag of a cou to the hom pag of the ins , as des by the fol rul :
ins ( a , b ) : - cou ( a ) , per ( b ) , lin ( a , b ) .
her , the var a and b rep web pag , the lit cou ( b ) and per ( a ) rep - res the pre cla of the pag , and the lit lin ( a , b ) tes for the exi of a hyp fro pag a to pag b .
pro rep
bec thi tas inv dis hyp pat of unk and var siz , we emp a lea met tha use a fir - ord rep for its lea rul .
spe - ica , the alg we hav dev for thi tas is bas on the foi alg ( 123 , 123 ) whi we use for pag cla in sec 123 .
we dis our alg in mor det
the pro rep we use for our rel lea tas con of the fol
cla ( pag ) : for eac cla in the set of pag cla con in sec 123 , the cla rel lis the pag tha rep ins of cla .
for pag in the tra set , the ins of the rel are det usi the act cla of the pag .
for pag in the tes set , how , we use the pre pag cla giv by the cla dis in sec 123
sin the web sys has acc onl to pre pag cla , our tes set con are rep of tho the sys fac .
lin ( hyp , pag , pag ) : thi rel rep web hyp .
for a giv hyp , the fir arg of the rel spe an ide for the hyp , the sec arg spe the pag in whi the hyp is loc , and the thi arg ind the pag to whi the hyp poi .
has ( hyp ) : thi set of rel ind the wor tha are fou in the anc ( i . e . , und ) tex of eac hyp .
the voc for thi set of rel inc wor tha occ at lea n tim ( we set n = 123 in our exp ) in the hyp of the tra set .
not tha whe the has . wor rel use in sec 123 des web pag , the set use her cha hyp .
all ( hyp ) : the ins of thi rel are tho hyp in
whi all of the wor in the anc tex sta wit a cap let .
has ( hyp ) : the ins of thi rel are tho hyp whi con a wor wit bot alp and num cha ( e . g . , i tea cs1 ) .
has ( hyp ) : thi set of rel ind the wor tha are fou in the " nei " of eac hyp .
the nei of a hyp inc wor in a sin par , lis ite , tab ent , tit or hea in whi the hyp is con .
the voc for thi set of rel inc the top 123 mos fre occ wor in eac tra set , exc for wor on a sto .
we lea def for the fol tar rel fro the dat set des in sec 123 : mem ( pag , pag ) , ins ( pag , pag ) , and dep - men ( pag , pag ) .
in add to the pos ins for the rel , our tra set inc app 123 , 123 neg exa .
we for the set of neg - tiv tra ins for eac tar rel by enu eac pai of non - oth pag fro the sam uni tha is not a pos ins of the tar rel .
add - all , for the dep . of . per rel we aug the neg ins wit eac per - dep pai whi is not a pos ins .
lea met
as sta abo , the alg we use for lea rel rul is sim to foi in tha it use a gre cov app to lea a set of hor cla .
the two pri dif bet our met and foi are two .
fir , unl foi our met doe not sim use hil - cli whe sea for the nex cla to add to a con def .
sec , our met use a dif eva fun for thi sea pro .
we dis eac of the dif in tur .
as des in sec 123 , foi con cla usi a hil - cli sea thr a spa of can lit .
we hav fou tha , for our rel : lea tas , suc a hil - cli str is una to lea rul for pat con of mor tha one hyp .
the sea pro tha our met emp ins con of two pha .
in the fir pha , the " pat " par of the cla is lea , and in the sec pha , add lit are add to the cla usi a hil - cli sea .
our alg for con the pat par of a cla is a var of ric and moo ' s rel pat met ( 123 ) .
thi met is des to all the bas wea of hil - cli sea , nam tha to lea goo def it is oft nec
inp : tra set of neg and unc pos ins
for eac unc pos ins
fin a pat ( up to bou len ) usi the bac rel
sel the mos com pat pro for whi cla sea has ' t yet fai gen the pat int an ini cla do hil - cli to ref the cla if hil - cli fai to fin an acc cla , bac to ste 123
ret : lea cla
fig 123 : the pro for lea a cla in our det var of rel pat .
exp sub ret pat
fig 123 : fin a pat in the bac rel .
on the lef is sho a gra of con lin by a sin bin rel .
thi gra can be tho of as rep web pag con by hyp .
sup the pai ( p12 p12 ) is an unc pos ins .
pat pro by exp the sub aro the two con unt an int is det , and the ret the pat tha lin the two
to tak a ste in the sea spa whi doe not exh any imm gai .
the bas ide und rel pat is tha a rel pro dom can be tho of as a dir gra in whi the nod are the dom ' s con and the edg cor to rel whi hol amo con .
the rel - pat alg tri to fin a sma num of pro pat in thi gra tha cha the ins of the
fig 123 pro an ove of our pat pro for lea a sin cla .
thi pro is ite unt a com def has bee lea .
the fir ste in the met is to fin the sho pat of a bou len ( whe one exi ) for eac pos ins ( of the tar rel ) tha has not bee cov by a pre lea cla .
thi pro , ill in fig 123 inv exp a sub aro eac of the con in the ins .
eac sub is exp by fin all con whi can be rea usi an ins of one of the bac rel to con to a con at the fro of the sub .
aft fin suc a pat for eac unc pos ins , the mos com pat
fin pat for eac pos ins
ret mos com pat
pi i p12 i tim
fig 123 : fin the mos com pat for a set of pos ins .
giv the gra sho in fig 123 , sup tha the pos ins are ( pi , p12 ) , ( p12 , p12 ) , ( p12 , p12 ) , and ( p12 , p12 ) .
our alg fin the sho pat for eac ins and the ret the mos com pat pro .
in thi exa the fir thr ins hav the sam pat pro , whe the ins ( p12 , p12 ) has dif one ( not the dir of the hyp ) .
thi pat pro is con int an ini cla .
pro is use for the ini cla . 123 a pat pro spe the num of hyp in the pat and the dir , but it doe not ref the par pag and hyp in any par ins .
the not of the mos com pat pro is ill in fig 123
the ini cla is for by rep eac con in the pat wit a uni var .
thi cla is the fur ref by a sim hil - cli sea , suc as tha use in foi .
if the hil - cli sea fai to fin an acc cla , the the pro bac by rem the las sel pat pro fro the lis of can and the try the nex mos com pro .
we fur bia the sea for cla by ini eac one wit the cla of the pai of pag in the rel .
for exa , whe lea cla for the tar rel mem - ber ( a , b ) , we ini the tai of eac cla wit the lit res ( a ) and per ( b ) .
thi bia tak adv of dom kno whi is pre in the on - tol giv to the web sys .
the sec dif bet our rel - lea alg and foi is tha whe foi use an inf - the mea to gui its hil - cli sea , our met , lik dze and bra ' s ra - foi ( 123 ) , use ra - est of a cla ' s err to gui its con .
we hav fou tha usi thi eva fun cau the alg to lea few , mor gen cla tha whe foi ' s inf gai mea is use .
exp eva
we eva our app to lea rel rul usi the fou - fol cro - val met des in sec 123
on eac ite , we lea the tar rel us -
123 the met is con fro lea rec def , the pat for eac pos ins nee to be fou onl onc sin it wil not cha as cla are add for the tar rel .
in thi cas , bef lea eac new cla the alg nee onl to upd cou ind the num of ins cov by eac pat pro .
ins ( a , b ) : - cou ( a ) , per ( b ) , lin ( c , b , a ) .
tes set : 123 pos , 123 neg
dep ( a , b ) : - per ( a ) , dep ( b ) , lin ( c , d , a ) , lin ( e , f , d ) , lin ( g , b , f ) ,
tes set : 123 pos , 123 neg
mem ( a , b ) : - res ( a ) , per ( b ) , lin ( c , a , d ) , lin . to ( e , d , b ) ,
tes set : 123 pos , 123 neg
fig 123 : a few of the rul lea for rec rel ins .
ing tra ins fro thr of the uni in our dat set , and tes lea cla usi ins fro the fou uni .
fig 123 sho a lea cla for eac of the ins . of , dep . of , and mem - ber .
pro rel .
on ave , the wer 123 , 123 , and 123 cla lea for the tar con res .
alo wit eac rul , we sho how wel the rul cla tes - set ins .
eac of the rul was lea on mor tha one of the tra set , the the tes - set sta rep agg ove the fou tes set .
the rul lea for the ins . of rel are the sim amo the thr tar rel .
the lea rul sho for thi rel , for exa , loo for cas in whi a cou pag has a hyp poi to a per pag .
the rul sho for the mem - ber . of . pro rel is mor int .
it des mem . of . pro ins in whi the pro ' s hom pag poi to an int pag whi poi to per hom pag .
the hyp fro the pro pag to the int pag mus hav the wor " peo " nea it .
thi rul cov cas in whi the mem of a res pro are lis on a sub " mem " pag ins of on the hom pag of the pro .
the rul sho for the dep . of rel inv a thr - hyp pat tha lin a dep hom pag to a per hom pag .
the rul req tha the wor " gra " occ nea the sec hyp in the pat .
in thi cas , the alg has lea to exp the fac tha dep oft hav a pag tha ser as a gra stu dir , and tha any stu who hom pag is poi to by thi dir is a mem of the dep .
alo wit eac of our pre rel ins , we cal an ass con in the pre .
we can the var the cov of our lea rul set by var a thr on the con val .
we cal the con of eac pre by con whe mos of the unc in the pre lie : in the pag cla tha are tes by eac lea cla .
the con mea for a pre rel ins is sim the pro of the con mea for the pag cla tha fac int the rel pre .
123 123 123 123 123
fig 123 : acc / cov tra for lea rel rul .
usi the con mea , fig 123 sho the tes - set acc / cov cur for the thr tar rel .
the acc lev of all thr rul set are fai hig .
the mem . of . pro rul are bet tha 123 acc at cov lev of up to abo 123 .
the ins . of rul are ove 123 acc at cov lev of 123 and abo .
the dep . of rul are at lea 123 acc at cov lev of up to 123 .
the lim cov lev of the lea rul is due pri to the lim cov of our pag cla .
not tha all of the lea rul inc lit whi tes pre pag cla .
as fig 123 sho , the cov exh by our pag cla is bel
% for mos cla .
lea to ext tex fie
in som cas , the inf we wan to ext wil not be rep by web pag or rel amo pag , but by sma fra of tex emb in pag .
for exa , giv a per hom pag , we mig be int in ext the per ' s nam .
thi typ of tas is com cal inf ext .
thi sec dis our app to lea rul for suc inf ext tas .
we hav dev an inf ext lea alg cal srv for " seq rul wit val . " srv is a top - dow fir - ord lea in the spi of foi
sha wit foi its gen sea heu and gai met , but dif in the kin of inp it exp and the com of its sea .
inp to srv is a set of pag , lab to ide ins of the fie we wan to ext , and a set of att def ove tok .
out is a set of inf ext rul .
the ext pro inv exa eve pos tex fra of app siz to see whe it mat any of the rul .
as in foi , " gro " a rul in srv mea hil - cli thr a spa of pos lit , at eac ste add a lit tha mat as man pos exa as pos whi exc a lar num of pre cov neg exa .
whe a rul is dee goo eno ( eit it cov onl pos exa , or fur spe is jud to be unp ) , all pos exa mat it are rem fro the tra set , and the pro is rep .
in our par dom , a pos exa is a lab tex fra seq of tok one of our tra doc a neg exa is any unl tok seq hav the sam siz as som pos exa .
dur tra we ass the goo of a lit usi all suc neg exa .
the rep use by our rul lea att to exp the sal cha of pos exa mai in ter of the ind tok con wit the and sur the .
at eac ste in rul gro , sev dif typ of pre may be
len ( seq , rel , l\l ) : the lea can ass tha the len of a fie , in ter
of num of tok , is les tha , gre tha , or equ to som int .
som ( seq , var , pat , att , val ) : the lea can pos an att - val tes for som tok in the seq ( e . g . , " the fie con som tok tha is cap " ) .
one arg to thi pre is a var .
eac suc var bin to a dis tok .
thu , if the lea use a var alr in use in the cur rul , it is spe the des of a sin tok if the var is a new one , it des a pre unb tok .
pos ( seq , var , fro , rel , n ) : the lea can say som abo the pos of a tok bou by a som - pre in the cur rul .
the pos is spe rel to the beg or end of the seq .
rel ( seq , var , var , rel , n ) : whe at lea two var hav bee int - duc by som - pre in the cur rul , the lea can spe the ord and dis fro eac oth .
lik foi , srv can exp rel str in the dom .
for srv , the onl pos for of rel str is tha rel tok to eac oth .
the mos obv exa is the suc rel , whi con adj tok , but mor int kin of str can be exp , suc as syn str .
in ass a som pre , the lea has the opt of add an arb pat of rel att to the tes , so tha it can mak sta of the for , " som tok whi is fol by a tok whi is fol by a tok tha is cap . " thu , alt som pre onl ref to tok
own ( fra ) : - som ( fra , b , ( ) , iru , tru ) ,
len ( fra , < , 123 ) , som ( fra , b , ( pre ) , wor , " gmt " ) , som ( fra , a , ( ) , lon , tru ) , som ( fra , b , ( ) , wor , unk ) , som ( fra , b , ( ) , qua , fal )
fig 123 : an ext rul for nam of hom pag own .
the eng ren of thi rul is , " a seq of two tok , one of whi ( a ) is in a htm tit fie and lon tha fou cha , the oth of whi ( b ) is pre by the tok gmt , is unk fro tra , and is not a fou - cha tok . " thi is a hig - acc rul , ach 123 cor out of 123 mat on a val set .
ins a fie , the lea can exp inf ava in tex sur the fie , as wel .
ini , the lea may onl use pat of len one whe suc a pat is use in a som pre , the sys mak lon pat ava .
in thi way , the com exp tha thi fac ent is kep und con .
exp eva
as in the pre exp , we fol the lea - one - uni - out met , re - pea hol the pag bel to one of the fou uni out for tes and tra on the rem thr .
the dat set for the pre exp con of all per pag in the dat set .
the uni of mea in thi exp is an ind pag .
if srv ' s mos con pre on a pag cor exa to som ins of the pag own ' s nam , or if it mak no pre for a pag con no nam , its beh is cou as cor .
oth , it is cou as an err .
las - mod : wed , 123 - jun - 123 123 : 123 : 123 gmt
<ti bru ran don / tit
bru ran don
fig 123 : an exa htm fra whi the abo rul mat .
in thi cas , the fra bru ran in the tit is ext .
not tha thi is an err pre sin it mis the las nam of
fig 123 and 123 sho a lea rul and its app to a tes cas .
fig 123 sho the acc - cov cur for srv on the nam - ext tas .
und the cri des abo , it ach 123 acc whe all pag are pro .
a ful 123 of the fil did not con the own ' nam , how , and a lar par of the lea ' s err is bec of spu pre ove the fil .
if we con onl the pag con nam , srv ' s per is 123 .
fig 123 : acc / cov tra usi srv for nam ext .
a pre on a fil tha doe not con a nam is cou as an err .
rel wor
the are sev sig bod of res tha are rel to the tas and met dis in thi pap .
in thi sec we bri rev the mai are of rel wor .
doc cla
our wor is rel to res in doc cla , suc as tha rep at rec tex ret con ( tre ) ( 123 , 123 ) .
a wid var of met hav bee app to the doc - cla tas .
the tfi app to inf ret is the bas for the roc cla .
alg whi has bec a sta bas alg for tex cla ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
its " wor - vec " app inv des cla wit a vec of wei , whe eac wei ind how imp the cor wor is to the cla .
thi rep has bee use wit man dif lea alg , inc mem bas rea - ing ( 123 ) , neu net ( 123 , 123 ) , lin dis ana ( 123 ) , log reg ( 123 ) , wid - hof and the exp gra ( eg ) alg ( 123 ) .
ano use lin of res in tex cla com fro bas ide in pro and inf the .
bay rul has bee the sta poi for a num of cla alg ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , and the min des len pri has bee use as the bas of an alg as wel ( 123 ) .
ano lin of res has bee to use sym lea met for tex cla .
num stu hav use alg suc as dec tre , swa - 123 , rip and cha can be fou in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the stu ind tha the alg are qui com wit sta - bas met .
inf ext
the pro tha we are add is rel to the tra inf ext tas , suc as the res don in the mes und ( muc ) ( 123 , 123 ) com .
the wor in the muc com has con pro suc as ext sym des of ter att fro new art , con cas fra tha ind fie suc as the per , vic , etc .
one key dif bet thi wor and the res rep her is tha we are con wit ext inf fro hyp , whe the muc wor has foc on ord fla tex .
in add , our app rel hea on mac lea met tha can be tra to ext inf , whe mos ear wor in the muc com rel on han - cra met for ext inf .
rec , the pro of usi mac - lea met to ind inf - ext rou has rec mor att .
pal ( 123 ) and aut ( 123 ) are mac lea sys whi lea ext pat fro col of par doc tha hav bee ann to ide fra of int .
the pat are the rev and man - all ins int a lar inf ext sys .
aut - ts ( 123 ) rem the req tha doc be ann .
cry ( 123 ) and rap ( 123 ) bot dem tha mac lea tec can be use to lea rul tha per ext aut .
cry is a cov alg whi tak par , ann sen as inp and pro rul for ext fro nov sen .
rap use ide fro rel lea and rel som the rel on syn pre - pro .
sta wit max spe ext pat , bot sys lea by dro con and mer pat .
thi con wit the gen - to - spe app int her .
sev res hav exp the pro of tex ext fro the web and oth int sou .
one exa is ila ( 123 ) , a sys des to lea ext pat ove the hum - rea out of onl dat .
ila exp pri exp abo the pro con of a dat to lea how rec are for for out by a par sys .
sim , but spe des for use wit htm is sho ( 123 ) , a bar hun age .
the app are rel to the gen pro of " wra ind " ( 123 ) , lea ext pat for hig reg sou .
at the sam tim , ide tha hav pro use for gen tex hav als bee sho to wor wel for web pag .
web ( 123 ) is a mod of cry in whi par sen fra are rep by seg of htm .
ext sem inf fro hyp
sev oth res gro hav con the sem inf tha can be aut - mat inf and ext fro hyp .
spe ( 123 ) pre a set of heu tha rel hyp con to sem rel .
spe , she con rel - tio tha can oft be inf fro hyp str , fil sys org , and htm pag str .
mon and elk ( 123 ) hav dev a sys tha fin the web pag for a pap giv a bib cit to it .
par of the tas per by thi sys is to fin the per hom pag and the pub pag of an aut sta fro the hom pag of the per ' s ins .
for thi tas , mon and elk use sea - con rul whi are som sim to the rel - rec rul we lea in sec 123
the rul loo for cer key in hyp to dec whi one to fol in the sea .
whe the rul are han - cod for a spe tas , our wor con the pro of lea suc rul for arb rel .
pir et al .
( 123 ) con the tas of cla pag int fun cat suc as hea , ind and ref .
the cha the cla usi fea suc as fil siz , num of inc and out hyp , ave dep of chi pag in the hyp - lin gra , etc .
whe our wor has not dir inv lea fun cla of pag , we hav obs tha our fir - ord lea for bot pag and rel cla - tio oft imp lea suc fun cat .
rec , for exa , tha our lea fir - ord rul for rec stu pag pro exp the cla of per ind pag .
the fea we use als dif som fro tho of pir et al . , but com to bot app is the cen imp of vec - bas tex sim and hyp
ext kno bas fro the web
oth gro hav wor on ext pro kno - bas inf fro the web .
luk et al .
( 123 ) hav pro an ext to htm cal sho whe web pag aut can enc ont inf on the pag .
the hav als dev a sys , exp , tha ext sho - enc inf fro web pag , and sto it in a loc kno bas .
the hop is tha a lib of sta ont wil com int com usa , ena age suc as exp to lea the inf enc on the
the sta inf ser ( 123 ) pro a nat lan int to a kno - edg bas col fro the web .
the kno bas con met - inf abo the con of the web , so tha a que to sta ret rel hyp seg .
sta bui its kno bas by dis mos man add nat lan ann on web pag .
the mos sig rec dev in thi are is the adv of ext mar
lan ( xml ) ( 123 ) .
whe htm is des to des the lay of inf in a pag , xml can be use to des inf abo the con of the pag .
as wit sho , web pag aut can use xml to enc ont inf abo the pag .
sin xml is a wor wid web con sta , how , it is sur to be wid use .
we bel tha met for ann the con of web pag , suc as sho and xml , can ass wit the tas of ext kno bas fro the web , but do not obv the nee for our web app .
the are two not lim of app suc as sho and xml .
fir , the are of no use whe web pag aut do not emp the .
sec , the pre a uni ont .
tha is , sin ind web pag aut are res for ann web pag , the suc of the app hin on the ext to whi aut emp sta , sha ont in a con man .
mor , ont dec are lar in the han of web pag aut in thi app .
the may be cas whe the ont cat use to des a giv web pag are not app or rel cat for the tas to whi an ext kno bas wil be app .
in the web app , on the oth han , the ont dec can be mad by the use of the sys .
one int way in the xml and web app can pot be com , is by exp xml - ann pag as pre - lab tra dat .
we pla to exp thi iss in fut res .
web age
the web sys des her is an exa of a web age tha bro the web , ext inf as it goe .
man oth web age hav bee dev ove the pas few yea , inc sev tha inv som for of lea .
how , the vas maj of the sys use lea to imp the abi to ret tex inf , rat tha to ext com - und inf .
for exa , joa et al .
( 123 ) des a web age cal web wat tha ser as a tou gui for use bro the web .
web wat lea to sug app hyp giv use ' int , bas on the hyp fol by pre use wit sim int .
as suc , it inv lea to cla hyp - a tas sim to the wor rep her on lea to ext rel inf .
a sys wit a sim goa is let ( 123 ) , whi lea the int of a sin use , in con to web wat whi lea fro a com of use .
sys and web ( 123 ) off a mor res way of bro tha web wat and let .
sta fro a man con ind pag for a par top , the use can rat hyp off thi pag .
the sys use the rat to lea a use spe top pro tha can be use to sug une hyp on the pag .
sys and web can als use sea eng lik lyc to ret pag by tur the top pro int a que .
lir ( 123 ) wor in an off - lin set .
a gen mod of one use ' s int is lea by ask the use to rat pag .
lir use the mod to bro the web off - lin and ret a set of pag tha mat the use ' s int .
one rel sys tha is clo in spi to our wor is sha et a / . ' s ( 123 ) aho sys , whi att to loc the hom pag of a per , giv inf suc as the per ' s nam , org aff etc .
aho use kno of hom pag pla con to sea for per hom pag , and in fac lea the con fro exp .
con and fut wor
we beg thi pap wit a goa and a the .
the goa is to aut cre a lar kno bas who con mir tha of the wor wid .
the the is tha one can aut cre kno bas fro the web by fir usi mac lea alg - rit to cre inf ext met for eac of the des typ of kno , and the app the met to ext pro , sym sta dir fro
thi pap pro sup for our the by pro and tes a var of mac lea alg for inf ext , and by des the web sys tha inc the lea inf ext to bro web sit and pop a kno - edg bas .
as sho in sec 123 and els , our sys has ach an acc of bet tha 123 at cov lev of app 123 whe usi the lea inf - mat ext to pop its uni kno bas whi bro new web sit .
the res pro enc ini sup for our the , and sug man rou for
we hav exp a var of lea met for thi tas , inc sta bag - of - wor cla , fir - ord rul lea , and mul - str lea met .
we hav fou tha sta bag of wor met , der fro doc cla met in inf ret , wor wel for cla ind web pag .
how , the met do not tak adv of the spe hyp str ava on the web .
the , we dev fir - ord lea alg bot for lea to cla pag and lea to rec rel amo sev pag .
the fir - ord met are cap of des pat tha occ acr mul web pag , the hyp , and spe wor tha app on the pag and hyp .
our exp ind tha the met ten to hav hig acc tha the bag of wor cla , tho the fre pro low cov .
in add to the fir - ord lea met tha " loo out " fro the pag to con its nei , we als hav dev met tha " loo inw " to con the det str of hyp and spe tex fra wit a sin web pag .
the srv alg des in sec 123 lea rel rul tha ext spe typ of tex fie wit a web pag , suc as a per ' s nam .
we bel tha the too of met we hav des her wil be app to a wid ran of pro dom .
for new dom , how , we may app and com the met in way not exp in thi pap .
for exa , in cur wor in a new pro dom , we are usi pag cla to rec ins of a par rel ( the eco sec of a com ) , whe in the wor des her we use pag cla to rec cla ins .
in sho , the mos app met for rec ins for a par cla or rel wil dep on how the ins ten to be rep in the web .
bas on the ini res rep her , we are opt abo the fut pro for aut con and mai a sym kno bas by int hyp on the web .
key que rem , how .
for exa , wha lev of acc
can be ach by lea pro for ext inf fro the web , and wha lev of acc wil be req of the ? for som tas the req acc wil be qui hig ( e . g . , for an int sys tha aut inv mon on beh of its use ) .
how , for tas suc as inf ret on the web , the sys nee onl be suf acc to out the cur key - bas ret sys tha hav no rea not of an ont .
alt fur res tow str lea met is war , we con tha the wil be a ste str of app whe eve an app cor kno bas wil out cur key ret met .
a sec typ of que for our sys is how muc eff wil be req to tra the sys for eac new ont , or for eac ext to the gro ont ? in the exp rep her , the sys was tra usi tho of han - lab web pag tha wer col at a cos of app one or two per son - wee of eff .
in new wor we are beg to exp met for red the dep on han lab dat .
bel is a lis of the and oth res opp tha mer fur res :
dev lea met tha exp the hie rel tha exi amo cla in the hie .
for exa , in rec wor we hav sho tha the acc of our bay bag of wor cla can be imp by usi the cla hie to obt mor acc est of cla con wor pro ( 123 ) .
use the vas poo of unl web pag to sup the ava han - lab dat to imp lea acc .
rec we hav sho tha the em alg can be use to com lab and unl dat to boo acc ( 123 ) .
we are als exp the com of em wit poo - bas tra for act lea in whi the lea req lab for spe web pag who lab wil be esp
co - tra mul cla .
for exa , con a pro set in whi one web pag cla exa the wor on the pag , and a sec cla exa ins the wor on the inc hyp to tha pag .
in rec wor , we hav pro a met by whi eac cla act as a tra for the oth , and we hav pro ini exp and the ana sho the pro of thi
exp mor lin str .
we pla to exp way in whi nou , ver , and pre phr ext fro the tex can be use as fea for inf ext .
we hav con pre exp tha sho imp acc in som cas whe our bag of wor rep is aug by the ext phr ( 123 ) .
we con tha suc lin fea wil be eve mor use for tas wit few wor , suc as cla ind hyp .
exp mul str for lea to ext tex fie fro web pag .
we hav dev a num of app to thi tas ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , inc mul - str
int sta bag - of - wor met int fir - ord lea tas .
we hav beg dev met tha aug fir - ord lea wit the abi to use bag -
of - wor cla to inv new pre for cha the pag and hyp ref in lea rul ( 123 ) .
exp mor htm str .
we pla to inv the uti of rep the htm str of pag whe lea rul for rel cla and inf ext .
we hav inv one app to rep htm str and exp it for lea tas ( 123 ) .
lea reg ove the gro kno bas .
we pla to use lea met to dis int reg ove the fac tha hav bee ext fro the web , and to use the lea fac to imp fut fac ext .
for exa , in the uni kno bas we mig exp to lea how to pre the dep of a fac mem bas on the dep of her stu adv .
ext the ont to new pro dom .
we are cur app our met to the tas of ext inf abo com fro the web .
a obt mor eve dis sco fro nai bay
whi nai bay oft pro acc cla , it pre pro whe one wan to int the sco for eac cla as an est of unc .
per - cla sco for the win cla ten to gra tow 123 and sco for the los cla ten tow 123 .
oft the eff is so str tha flo - poi rou - off err cau the pro to be cal as exa 123 for the win cla and 123 for the oth .
the ext val are an art of the ind ass .
if for eac wor , the val of pr ( u;| ) bet dif cla dif by one ord of mag , the the fin pro wit dif by as man ord of mag as the are wor in the doc .
cla - con wor pro wou be muc mor sim acr cla if wor dep wer tak
we wou lik sco tha acc ref the unc in eac pre and ena us to sen com the sco of mul doc .
we att to cou the ext val , whi sti avo the com of mod wor - dep , in two ste .
fir , ins of usi the pro of the wor lik , we use the geo mea of the lik .
thi app is clo rel to the con of per in lan mod for spe rec ( 123 ) .
per is a mea of the lik of som dat giv a mod , whe the lik is nor for the len of the dat .
we beg wit nai bay ( eq .
123 ) , rew the sum to an equ exp tha sum ove all wor in the voc t ins of jus the wor in the doc ( eq .
123 ) , tak the log , ( eq .
123 ) , and div by the num of wor in the doc ( eq .
thi res in the log of the geo mea of the wor lik , plu a ter for the cla pri .
pr ( c ) npr - |c ) = pr ( c ) h prk ' k ) ^*^ ( 123 )
oc log ( ? i ( c ) ) + j12 ( w^d ) log ( pr ( u; , - |c ) ) ( 123 )
+ ^^l ( prm ) ) ( 123 )
log ( pr ( c ) ) , tn ( wi , d )
if we int n ( wi , d ) / n as pr ( wi\ ) , the rig - han ter of thi exp is the neg cro ent ( 123 ) bet the dis of wor ind by the doc wit the dis of wor ind by the cla :
log ( pr ( c ) ) +^p ( u> . |<j ( ) ^ ( pr^ ) )
thu , the sec ter spe tha the cla c wit the hig sco wil be the one wit the low cro ent cla tha cou " com " the doc mos eff .
thi exp res in sco for eac cla tha var smo , wit ten tow
cro ent in equ 123 can be int und as the ave num of bit nec to enc a wor fro the doc usi an enc tha is opt for the dis of wor ind dra fro the cla .
cro ent doe not , how , acc for the var dif of enc dif doc doc are mor com , and inh req mor bit on ave to enc .
we wan sco tha can be sen com bet doc .
a way to acc for dif bet doc is to use kul - lei div is , to sub the ave num of bit it wou tak to enc the doc usi its opt enc ( ass aga , tha the wor are ind of one ano ) .
thi res in an exp tha can be int und as the ave num of ext bit req bec we are usi a sub enc ins of the opt enc .
we mod the sec ter of equ 123 so tha it exp the kl div sco for eac cla :
m^ + f;p . wlo ( |l - j| )
n i=1 \pt ( wi\ ) j
we als nor the sco acr all cla so tha the sum to a con .
thi nor - mal als has the eff of inc our con in the cla of doc wit hig wor ent .
thi is int des bec hig - ent doc hav mor uni wor , whi can be con as str evi , and mor lik to res in a cor cla .
not tha the mod to 123 do not cha the ord of cla est for a giv doc .
con , the cla mad by nai bay are not aff .
the mod onl ser to pro wel - dis , com sco .
not tha non of the cha sin str nai bay in equ 123 has cha the sco ord of dif cla for the sam doc hav not cha cla tha wou hav res fro nai bay .
the hav onl ser to pro wel - dis , com sco .
