rea , wit a sea - bas pla the rob age con cho whi act it is to per , usi the sti - res sub whe pos , and fal bac on the pla sub whe nec .
whe for to pla , it app an exp - bas mec to for a new sti - res rul to cov thi new sit and oth sim to it .
wit exp , the age bec inc rea as its lea com acq new sti - res rul tha eli the nee for pla in sim sub sit .
thi the - age arc is des , and res are pre dem its abi to red tim for a sim mob rob fro min to und a sec .
int and mot
muc att has
rec on rea arc for rob age tha con sen the env and com app rea to the sen sti wit bou tim ( e . g . , ( bro , 123 , agr and cha , 123 , ros , 123 ) ) .
suc arc off adv ove mor tra ope - loo sea - bas pla sys bec the can rea mor qui to cha to the env , and bec the can ope mor rob in wor tha are dif to mod in adv .
sea - bas pla arc , on the oth han , off the adv of mor gen - pur ( if slo ) pro sol mec whi pro the fle to dea wit a mor div set of una goa and sit .
thi pap con the que of how to com the ben of rea and sea - bas arc con aut age .
we des the the - age arc , whi inc bot a rea com and a sea - bas pla com .
the fun des pri of the the - age is tha it rea whe it can , pla whe it mus , and lea by aug its rea com whe it is for to pla .
whe use to con a lab mob rob , the the - age in sim cas lea to red its rea
tim for new tas fro sev min to les tha a
the res rep her is par of our lar eff arc , and bui on ear wor des ( bly and mit , 123 ) .
we bel tha in ord to bec inc suc , a lea rob wil hav to inc sev typ of lea :
123 it mus bec inc cor at pre
the eff of its act in the wor .
q it mus bec
123 it mus bec inc rea , by red the tim req for it to mak rat cho to cho act con wit the abo pre and its goa .
tho fea of
imp its suc .
thi pap foc on the sec of the typ of lea .
we des how the the - age inc the sco of sit for whi it can qui mak rat whe it is for to pla for a sit out the cur sco of its rea com .
bas lea mec pro rul tha rec pre the sam act as rec by the slo pla , in exa tho sit in whi the sam pla rat wou app .
how , the lea rul inf the des act imm fro the inp sen dat in a sin inf ste - - wit con exp the rob goa , ava
rel wor
the has bee a gre dea of rec wor on arc for rob con whi con sen the env and ope in bou tim ( e . g . , ( bro , 123 , sch , 123 , agr and cha , 123 ) ) , tho thi typ of wor has not dir add iss of lea .
seg arm sys ( seg , 123 ) app exp - bas lea to acq pla tac for a sim han - eye sys , and lai rob ( lai and ros , 123 ) has bee app pro in a rea han - eye rob sys .
whi the res sha our goa of dev sys tha are
to con an out
the und arc var sig in the for of the kno bei lea , und rep , and rea res tim .
sut has pro an ind app to acq rob con str , in his dyn sys ( sut , 123 ) , and pom has dev a con sys whi ( pom , 123 ) .
in add to wor on lea suc rob con str , the has bee muc rec int in rob lea mor gen , inc wor cor mod of act ( chr , et al . , 123 , zri and mow , 123 ) , and wor on bec
the wor rep her is als som rel to rec ide for com low - lev rea sys fro hig - lev spe ( e . g . , ( ros , 123 ) ) .
par , suc com tra inp des of act and goa int eff con str , usi tra sim to tho ach by exp - bas lea in the the - age .
the mai dif exp - bas lea use in the the - age , is tha for the the - age com tra is inc foc by the wor act enc by the age , and may be int wit oth lea mec whi imp the age mod of its act .
the age , so tha
the nex sec of thi pap des the the - age in gre det .
the sub sec pre an exa of its use in con a sim mob rob , the lea mec for acq new eff of cac and rul lea on sys rea tim .
the fin sec sum som of the les of thi wor , inc fea and bug in the cur des of the arc .
rul , and tim dat sho
the the - age arc
the goa of com
the des of the the - age arc is pri adv of rea and sea - bas sys .
rea sys off the adv of qui res .
sea - bas pla off the adv of bro sco for han a mor div ran of una wor .
the the - age arc emp bot , and use lea to inc aug its rea com whe for to pla .
in add , the arc mak wid use of cac and to avo nee rec of rep acc bel .
the pri cha of the the - age are :
e it con
rea wha act
per .
the age run in a tig loo in whi it rep upd its sen inp , cho a con act , beg exe it , the rep thi
e it rea whe it can , and pla whe it mus .
it mus cho an act , the sys con a set of sti - res con its rea com .
if one of the rul app to the cur sen inp , the the cor act is tak .
if no rul app , to det an
it acq a new sti - res rul .
the new rul rec the act whi the pla has rec , in the sam sit ( i . e . , tho wor sta for whi the sam pla jus wou app ) , but can be inv muc mor eff .
lea is acc by an exp - bas ( mit , et al , 123 ) ) , and pro a dem - dri inc com int an equ of the pla kno l eve bel
tha dep on sen
mai as lon as its exp rem val .
bel of whi act to per nex , dep dir or ind on obs sen dat .
the arc mai a net of exp for eve bel of the age , and del bel onl whe the sup cea .
thi cac of bel sig imp the res tim of the age by eli rec of bel in the fac of unc or irr sen inp .
in the the - age ,
e it det whi goa to att to , bas on the per wor sta , a pre set of goa act and sat con , and giv pri amo goa .
123 obs . wor . - p ' cho .
+ - - - - - - - - k - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
fig 123 - l : dat plo in a the - age
the age pre cho
int str of age : a the - age is def by a fra str who slo , sub , sub , etc .
def the age bel , or int sta .
the two mos sig slo of the age are cho . act , whi per and obs . wor , whi des the age cur per of its wor .
as ind in fig 123 - l the age may inf its cho . act eit dir fro its obs . wor , or alt fro its cur pla .
its pla is in tur der fro its obs . wor and att . to . goa .
the att . to . goa def the goa to ach , and is com as the hig pri of its act . goa , whi are the inf fro the obs . wor .
is cur att
age goa : goa are spe
to the age by def con und whi the are act , sat , and att to .
for exa , an age may be giv a goa rec . bat whi is def to bec act whe it per its bat lev to be les tha 123 , bec sat whe the bat cha is loo , and whi is att to whe it is act and the ( hig pri ) goa avo . onc . obs
cac pol : the bas ope of the the - age is to rep inf a val for its cho . act slo .
eac slo of the age typ has one or mor att pro for obt a val upo dem .
the typ acc oth slo , bac to slo of the obs . wor .
whe som slo val is suc val is cac ( sto ) in the cor slo , alo wit an exp jus its val in ter of oth slo val , whi are in tur jus in ter of oth , lea eve to val of ind fea in the obs . wor , whi are the inf by dir acc the rob sen .
val rem cac for as lon as the exp rem val .
thu , the age act . goa and cho . act may rem cac for man cyc , des irr cha in sen inp .
thi pol of alw cac val , del imm whe exp bec inv , and laz rec upo dem , ass tha the age bel in its inp sen , wit
con pol : the the - age
is con by
exe the fol loo :
sen and upd rea for all eag sen fea of obs . wor , and del any cac val for zaz sen fea .
dec upo the cur cho . act 123
exe the cho . act
whe the cho . act slo is acc ( dur the dec por of the abo cyc ) , the fol ste are att in seq unt one suc : 123
ret the cac val of thi slo ( if ava ) 123
inf a val bas on the ava sti -
sel the fir ste of the age pla ( inf a
pla if nec )
sel the def act ( e . g . , wai ) sen pol : eac pri sen inp ( e . g . , an arr of inp son dat ) is sto in som slo of the age obs . wor .
hig lev fea suc as edg in the son arr , reg , reg wid , etc . , are obs . wor , and are inf upo dem fro the low - lev fea .
the dec - mak por of the age dra upo the ent ran of low to hig lev sen fea as nee .
in ord to dea wit a var of sen pro of var cos , the the - age typ of pri sen tho - whi it eag sen , and tho whi it eag sen fea are ref aut dur eac cyc thr the age mai loo , so tha dep cac bel of the age are ret whe pos .
in con , laz sen fea are sim del dur eac cyc .
rec onl if the age que the cor slo dur som sub cyc .
thi div bet eag and laz ref fea pro a sim foc of att whi all kee the ove of col new sen dat dur eac cyc to a min .
lea pol : whe the age is for to pla in ord to obt a val for its cho , its exp - bas gen rou to acq a new sti - res rul to cov thi sit .
the det of thi rou are des in gre det in the nex sec .
the eff of thi lea pol inc ext the sco of the set of sti - enc by the sys in its wor .
the typ of pro
exa and res
the use of
thi sec des
to sea the lab
arc to dev a sim pro to con a her 123 mob rob gar can .
in par , we ill how goa and act are pro to the rob wit no ini sti - sel act by con pla , and how it inc acc sti - res rul tha cov its rou act .
the rob sen use in thi exa
ult son mou on its han , a rot son on
the the - age t is imp
sol and lea
and lea mec .
sys cal the ( mit , et al . , 123 ) ,
on top of a gen
123 det des of the m . odi her 123 rob use her is
in ( lin , et al . , 123 ) .
its hea , and a bat vol sen .
by rot its han and hea son it is abl to obt arr of son rea tha mea ech dis ver rot ang .
the raw son rea are int ( on dem ) to loc edg in the son arr , as wel as reg , and pro of reg suc as reg wid , dis , dir , and ide .
the pri sen ope use in the bat vol lev , son , whi mea son ran swe . wri . rol , whi obt an arr of son rea by rot the wri fro lef to rig .
of the sen fea , son is eag sen , and the oth are laz sen .
the wri son poi dir
inc bat , whi
the rob act her
for 123 inc ) , bac . 123 ( mov bac 123 ( tur tow the clo son in fro of the rob ) , and mea . the . obj ( obt sev add son swe whe the clo son reg in fro of the rob is a gar can ) .
the . obj ref to the clo son reg in fro of the rob , as det by the sen pro
thi the - age has bee tes by giv it dif set of ini goa , lea it to com out dif set of sti - res rul exh dif beh .
in the sim exa pre her , the age is giv
the son sen
123 goa . clo : app dis obj .
thi goa is bet 123 and 123 inc , ind an obj at it is sat whe son is les tha 123 inc , and att
123 goa . fur : bac off fro clo obj .
thi is act whe son is bet 123 and 123 inc , sat whe son is gre tha 123 inc , and att to whe it is act .
nea son reg cor to a gar can .
thi is act whe the is an obj in fro of the rob who is unk , sat whe the obj ide is kno , and att to goa . fur are ina .
in ord to ill the ope of the the - age , con the seq of eve tha res fro set the rob loo in the lab wit the abo goa , act , and sen rou : dur the fir ite thr its loo , it ( eag ) sen a rea of 123 fro son , ref an obj at 123 inc .
in the dec pha of cho . act slo , whi has no cac val , and no ass sti - res rul .
thu , it is for to pla in ord to det a val for cho . act .
the pla det whi goa the age is att to , the sea for a seq of
act whi it pro wil sat thi goa .
thu , the pla que the att . to . goa slo , whi que the act . goa slo , whi que the obs , the pla , aft som sea , the der a two - ste pla to exe two tim in a row ( thi pla lea to a pro son rea of 123 inc , whi wou cho . act slo is thu for . 123 ( the fir ste of the
the age cac the res of eac of the abo slo que , alo wit an exp tha jus eac slo val in ter of the val fro whi it was der .
rel eac bel ( slo thi net of exp val ) of the age eve to sen fea of its
in the abo sce the age had to con a pla in ord to inf its cho . act .
the , it for a new sti - res rul whi wil rec cho act in fut sit , wit pla .
the age the exe the act and beg a new cyc by the son fea and del any oth sen fea ( in thi cas the obs bat lev , whi was que by the pla as it che the for var act ) .
dur thi sec cyc , the sti - res rul lea dur the fir cyc app , and the age qui dec exe for . 123
as it gai exp , acq add rul and an inc pro of its dec are mad by inv the sti - res rul rat tha pla .
in the new sit
rul lea
the rul acq pro use by the the - age is an exp - bas lea alg cal ebg ( mit , et al , 123 ) .
thi pro exp why the cho . act of the the - age is jus , fin the wea con und whi thi exp hol , pre , giv som cho . act , ? act , the the - age exp why ? act jus . act ( ? age , ? act ) t
( 123 ) the att . to . goa of the ? age is ? g ( 123 ) ? g is sat by res of ? age pla ( 123 ) the tai of ? age pla wil not suc wit
fir exe ? act
( 123 ) ? act is the fir ste of the ? age pla
cho . act is a jus . act as def abo , the det the wea con on the obs . wor
und whi thi exp wil hol
con , for exa , a sce in whi the her age is att to and has con a the goa goa . ide . the . obj , fig 123 - l sho the exp gen by the sys for why fac . the . obj in thi fig , eac lin cor to som bel of the age , and lev of ind ref dep .
eac bel is wri in the for ( fra slo .
. . ) =va .
and arr suc as c - - obs . val - - ind how the bel abo and lef of the arr was inf fro the bel bel and to its rig .
for exa , the lef bel tha the her is sup by the ( wor goa . ide . obj sat ? ) =t , and ( 123 ) ( wo mea . the . obj pre . sat ? ) =ni .
wo is the cur obs . wor , wor is the wor sta whi is pre to res fro the age pla , and pre . sat ? the pre ind whe the pre of an act are sat in a giv wor sta .
the thr sup bel cor to the fir thr cla in the abo def of jus . act
not the thi cla ind tha in thi cas the tai of the age pla can suc sin the pre of the sec ste of the pla are not sat in the ini obs wor .
( 123 ) ide of the . obj
is not kno
( 123 ) son in obs . wor ( 123 ) not ( 123 < ? s < 123 ( 123 ) not ( 123 < ? s < 123 ( 123 ) bat in obs . wor ( 123 ) dis to the . obj
( 123 ) 123 <= ? dis <= 123 ( 123 , 123 ) dir to the - obj
( 123 ) not t - 123 <= ? dir <= 123
( w12 bat ) = 123 ( w12 bat obs - val )
( w12 bat ) = 123
dis ) = 123
dir kno ? ) = t
dis ) = 123
dir ) = 123
( w12 bat obs . val )
dir kno ? ) = t
of her = fac - the - obj
fig 123 - 123 : rul for exp fro fig 123 - l
fig 123 - 123 sho the eng des of the rul fro the exp of lef of eac rul
pro by the the - age fig 123 - l . - the num
fig 123 - 123 : exp for ( her jus . act ) = fac . the . obj
123 cla int ofj . act req
tha the fir ste of the pla be ess to the pla suc .
wit thi req , the def is too wea , and can pro rul tha rec non - ess act suc as wai , pro the can be
123 fou cla is not eve mad exp , sin thi is sat by
def the rul pos to rec the cur act .
jus . act whi is sup by thi pre .
for exa , the fir fou lin in the rul ass tha the rob is in a wor sta for whi it sho att to the ( i . e . , the ass tha thi goa wil be act , and tha all hig pri goa wil be ina ) .
of cou thi rul nee not exp men thi goa or any oth , sin it ins men obs sen fea whi imp the act of the rel goa .
sim , the rul nee not men the pla , sin it ins men tho con , lab ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , whi ass tha the fir ste of the pla wil lea eve to ach the des goa .
in all , the age typ lea fro fiv to fif sti - res rul for thi set of goa and act , dep on its spe exp and the seq in whi the are enc .
by add and rem oth goa and act , oth age can be spe tha wil com out int set of sti - res rul tha pro dif beh .
imp of exp on age rea tim wit exp , the typ rea tim of the the - age in the abo sce dro fro a few min to und a sec , due to its acq of sti - res rul and its cac of bel .
let us def rea tim as the tim req for a sin ite of the sen - dec - exe loo of the age .
sim , def sen tim , dec tim , and exe tim as the tim req for the cor por of thi cyc .
dec tim is red by two fac :
l acq of sti - res rul .
mat a sti - res rul req on the ord of ten mil , whe pla typ req
l cac of bel abo fut wor sta .
the tim req by pla is red as a res of cac all age bel .
des of fut wor sta con by the pla ( e . g . , the wri son rea in the wor tha wil res fro app the act to the cur obs . wor ) are cac , and rem as bel of the age eve aft its sen wor is upd .
som cac fea of thi ima fut wor may bec unc eac cyc as old sen val are rep by new one , but oth ten to rem .
the imp in age rea tim is sum in the tim dat fro a typ sce , sho in tab 123 - l .
the fir lin sho dec tim and tot rea tim for a sen - dec - exe cyc in whi a pla mus be cre .
not tha her dec tim con the bul of rea tim .
the sec lin of thi tab sho the cos of pro a ver sim pla on the nex cyc .
the spe ove the fir lin is due to the use of slo the fir pla val whi wer cac dur
tab 123 - i : eff of lea on age res tim
( tim are in com on a sun wor )
epi , and who exp rem val thr the sec cyc .
the thi lin sho the tim for a thi cyc in whi the age app a set of lea sti - the sam act .
her , dec tim ( 123 mse . ) is com to sen tim ( 123 mse ) and the tim to ini exe of the rob act ( 123 mse . ) , so tha dec tim no lon con the bul of ove rea tim .
the dec tim is fou emp to re uir 123 + 123 mse .
to tes a set of r sti - res rul .
fig abo are dep on the par age goa , sen , tra exp , act , etc .
sca to mor com age tha req hun or tho of sti - res lea sti - res pai .
app suc as ret mat , or enc sti - res pai in ( ros , 123 , bro , 123 ) may be imp for sca to lar sys .
at pre , the sig res rep her is sim the exi pro tha the lea mec emp in the the - age are suf to red dec tim by two ord of mag for a rea rob wit fai sim goa , so tha dec tim cea to dom ove rea tim of the age .
for enc and ind
typ of net
sum , lim and fut wor
the key des fea of the the - age are : e a sti - res
sys com wit a pla com of bro sco but slo tim .
thi com all qui res for rou sit , plu fle to pla whe nov sit are enc .
com of the sys .
whe for to pla , the age for new sti - res rul tha
sru are sim tes in seq wit no sop ind or
par mat alg .
pro pre the sam dec as the cur pla , in pre the sam sit .
123 the age cho
its own goa bas on the sen wor sta , goa act con and rel goa pri .
goa are exp sti - res rul gro , the fre wit
the age onl whe the num of
the age exp con
cac alo wit an exp
123 cac and dep mai
bel of the age .
eve bel of the age is tho bel on whi it dep .
whe the age sen inp cha , dep bel whi are aff are del , to be rec if and whe the are sub que .
123 dis bet eag and laz ref in ord to min the low bou on rea tim , sel sen fea are eag upd dur eac age cyc .
oth fea are laz upd by del the and the if and whe the are req .
foc of att mec tha hel min res tim .
in dyn con the ass of eag and laz sen fea .
the are sev rea cri of the cur
fut , we hop
lim .
amo the are :
123 the kin of pla the the per may be unr dif in man sit , due to lac of kno abo the wor , the lik eff of the age act , or oth cha in the wor .
one pos res to thi lim is to add new dec - mak mec bey the cur pla and sti - res sys .
for exa , one cou ima a dec - mak fun ove wor sta , wit an eva act bas on one - ste loo ( sim to tha pro ( kae , 123 ) , a spe of mul - dec cor .
how , lea mec suc as tho use her mig sti com sti - res rul fro the dec pro by thi spe of dec - mak .
inc rea , its dec do not bec res rul are onl as goo as the pla and act mod fro whi the are com .
we are int in ext the sys to all it to ind lea bet mod of the eff of its act , as a res of its exp .
pre
res wit thi kin of lea usi a han - eye rob are des in ( chr , et al . , 123 , zri and mow , 123 ) .
in onl min way
* the cur pla con the cor of its pla , but not the cos of sen or eff com .
the , the pla and the sti - res rul der fro the may ref to sen fea whi are qui exp to obt , and whi con in ord to gua cor of a pla to pic up a cup , it mig be nec to ver tha the cup is not glu to the flo .
the cur sys wou inc suc a tes in the sti - res rul tha rec the gra ope , pro thi fea was con by the pla .
we mus fin a way to all the age to cho whi tes are nec and whi can be ign in ord to con pla pla tha it can the att , and rec fro as nee .
t12 sca iss .
as not in the pre sec , the cur rob sys req onl a sma set of sti - res rul to gov its beh .
we mus con how the app can be sca to mor com sit .
som ave are to ( 123 ) kno ( e . g . , ind rul by goa , so tha man sub of rul are sto rat tha a sin set ) , ( 123 ) dev a mor sel str for inv lea onl whe the ben out the cos , and ( 123 ) con rep of the con fix com cos neu net wit con res tim ) .
tha sac exp pre
the not of
rea sys fro mor gen but slo sea - bas sys is an imp app tow ext the fle of rob sys whi sti ach tim .
the spe des of the the - age ill one way to org suc a sys .
our int arc by add new lea mec tha wil all it to imp the cor of its act mod and its abi to use per its wor .
the add lea cap are int to com the typ of lea pre her .
is to ext
ack .
thi wor is bas on ext to ear joi wor wit jim bly , rep in ( bly and mit , 123 ) .
sig con to the des of the the - age .
tha als to the ent the gro , whi pro the the sys on whi the - age is bui .
the pro rep , and lea
i am mos gra
mec use by the the - age .
fin , tha to lon - ji lin who dev a num of the rou for int fro wor to the rob .
thi res noo - 123 - k - 123 and by nas und res con
by dar und
