lea inv the abi to gen fro pas exp - rie in ord to dea wit new sit tha are rel to thi exp .
the ind lea nee to dea wit new sit see to be pos onl und cer bia for cho one gen of the sit ove ano .
thi pap den pre the not of bia in gen - tio pro , the sho tha bia are nec for the ind lea .
cla of jus bia are con , and the rel bet bia and dom - ind
we res the sco of thi dis to the pro of
gen fro tra ins , den as fol :
the gen pro
lan of ins .
lan of gen .
mat pre for mat gen to in -
set of pos and neg tra ins .
gen ( s ) con wit the tra ins .
as a con exa of the abo gen pro - lem , con the tas add by win pro for lea cla of blo str ( win 123 ) .
her , the lan of ins is the rep use to de - scr exa blo str .
the lan of gen - ali is the lan in whi lea con ( e . g . , arc , tow ) are des .
the mat pre spe whe a giv gen app to a giv ins ( e . g . , whe the inf des of an arc is sat by a spe blo str ) .
thi pap add a dee dif wit the gen - iza pro as den abo : if con wit the tra ins is tak as the sol det of app - pri gen , the a pro can nev mak the ind lea nec to cla ins bey tho it has obs .
onl if the pro has oth sou of in - for , or bia for cho one gen ove the
con to ele ver by : rob joe , kan sta
fig 123 : rel amo ins and gen - tio ( thi gur was mis fro the ori pub and add in 123 )
oth , can it non - arb cla ins bey tho in the tra set .
in thi pap , we use the ter bia to ref to any bas for cho one gen ove ano , oth tha str con wit the obs tra ins .
wha is an unb gen
if gen is the pro of gue the cla of in - sta to whi the pos tra ins bel , the an unb gen is one tha mak no a pri as - sum abo whi cla of ins are mos lik , but bas all its cho on the obs dat .
two com - mon sou of bia in exi lea sys are ( 123 ) the gen lan is not cap of exp all pos - sib cla of ins , and ( 123 ) the gen pro - dur tha sea thr the spa of exp gen - iza is its bia .
an unb gen lan in con bia in the gen lan , it is use - ful to vie eac gen as den the set of in - sta tha it mat .
in gur 123 , for exa , g12 and g12 are two gen exp in som gen - tio lan , and eac mat a dif sub of the
rel to a giv lan of ins , an unb gen lan is the one whi all des - ing eve pos sub of the ins .
in sho , an
unb gen lan cor to the pow set of the giv ins lan .
the imp of usi a bia gen lan is cle : eac sub of ins for whi the is no exp - ibl gen is a con tha cou be pre to the pro , but whi the pro wil be una to de - scr and the una to lea .
if it is pos to kno ahe of tim tha cer sub of ins are irr , the it may be use to lea the out of the gen - tio lan , in ord to sim the lea pro .
for exa , on fea of the ins ( e . g . , ( win 123 ) , ( buc & mit 123 ) ) int a str bia of thi kin , whi red con the com of the gen -
the str of the bia int by gen lan - gua res to con con on fea , is ill by a sim exa .
con an ins lan - gua of bin fea vec con 123 fea , and a gen lan tha all con eac fea - tur val to be 123 , 123 , or don car .
som sim ari - met sho tha onl abo one out of eve 123 sub of ins is exp in the gen lan .
thi pro wor qui as the num of fea and the num of all val per fea inc .
an unb gen pro the gen pro sea for exp gen - era tha den set of ins , eac of whi in - clu all of the pos but non of the neg tra in - sta .
of cou , the may be man suc gen .
in gur 123 , for ins , if the obs pos ins are con in the int of the ins set of g12 and g12 , and the obs neg ins are out bot set , the bot g12 and g12 are con wit the obs
an unb gen pro is one whi sho no pre for one exp gen ove an - oth , exc on the bas of con wit the tra
fol ( mit 123 ) , we den the ver spa rel to a par gen lan , and a giv set of tra ins , as the set of all exp gen - era con wit the tra ins .
the an unb gen pro mus com the ver spa rel to the obs tra ins , and the pro - vid gen lan .
suc a gen pro - dur is des in ( mit 123 ) , and has bee imp - men as par of the met - den pro ( buc & mit 123 ) .
in ord to con the con of an unb gen - era pro , it is nec to con how a com - put ver spa can be use to cla sub in - sta as eit pos or neg .
an unb cla - cat met cla the new ins as a pos in - sta if and onl if eve gen in the ver spa mat it .
the ins is cla as a neg ins if and onl if no gen in the ver spa mat it .
if som , but not all , of the gen in the ver spa mat the ins , the the ins can be cla -
sie wit cer .
the pro cou , how , giv an est cla bas upo the pro of gen - ali wit the ver spa , tha mat and do not mat the ins .
the fut of rem bia
for a gen sys to be unb for it to con - sid equ all pos sub of ins as the pos ide of the cla bei lea it mus emp an unb - ase gen lan , and com the ver spa rel to tha lan and the pre tra ins .
alt rem all bia fro a gen sys - tem may see to be a des goa , in fac the res is nea use .
an unb lea sys abi to cla - sif new ins is no bet tha if it sim sto all the tra ins and per a loo whe ask to cla a sub ins .
to see tha thi is the cas , con the pro de - scr abo for usi the com ver spa to cla - sif new ins .
for an unb gen lan , the new ins wil mat eve gen con wit the obs ins if and onl if it is ide to one of the obs pos ins .
sim , to be cla as a neg ins , the new ins mus be ide to one of the obs neg ins .
fur , any ins tha has not yet app as a tra ins wil mat exa hal the gen in the ver spa .
as a res , eve the sch des abo for est the cla wil fai to pro use res .
in ret , it is not sur tha an unb gen - era sys can mak cla of ins oth tha the tra ins .
an unb sys is one who inf log fol fro the tra in - sta , whe cla of the new ins do not log fol fro the cla of the tra in -
use cla of bia
the is an imp con to the abo dis : if tot unb gen sys are inc of mak the ind lea to cha the new ins , the the pow of a gen sys fol dir fro its bia fro dec bas on cri oth tha con wit the tra ins .
the , pro tow und lea mec dep upo und the sou of , and jus for , var bia .
thi sec cla cer kin of bia tha hav bee use by lea pro .
fac kno of the dom .
in lea gen - ali for a par pur , it may be pos to lim the gen con , by app to kno - edg abo the tas dom .
the met - den pro ( buc & mit 123 ) for gen rul tha cha - act mol bon tha fra in a mas spe - ete .
her , gen kno of the dom , suc as dou - ble bon rar bre , can be use to con the sea for app gen .
sim , in a pro tha lea the rul of bas ( sol & ris 123 ) ,
unb gen pro tha use con wit the tra ins as the onl sou of inf , can out pro tha use rot lea .
add - tio inf or bia are the cri to the abi - ity to cla ins tha are not ide to the tra ins .
thi fac has sig imp for res on mac lea .
if bia and ini kno are at the hea of the abi - ity to gen bey obs dat , the eff to stu mac lea mus foc on the com use pri kno , bia , and obs in gui the lea pro .
it wou be wis to mak the bia and the use in con lea jus as exp as pas res has mad the obs and the use .
the fol peo hav pro tho com on var dra of thi pap , and hav con the own ide : sau ama , geo dra , n . s .
sri , and pau utg .
thi wor was sup by nih gra rr - 123 - 123 , and by an awa fro the rut res cou -
