we er he em of ro - ot ng , re he al is to rn a as - er f : x y at st ct el es of y at re ed om he ng et .
to ve is , we ne he on of a ic ut de er ( oc ) ch es a ge se of ic es of y to te to el es .
we de a sm or is pe of er nd dy ts al es in a ac rk , ng ns un - er ch he er an ly ct el es .
as a se dy , we ld a oc er or a al ng sk nd ow at it an en ct ds at le re ng ut om al ic ce es ( ri ) of ir al ty , en ut ng es or se ds .
ne ng ms ve en ly ed to ng rs in ny ns ch as er on , ud on , nd in ge is .
ly , rs re ed to te a et on f : x y , en a et of ed ng ta at es ll le es or y , nd es al ed ng ta .
le ch as en ed on ro - ot ng , re he le es or he ss le y de es at ve en ed om he ng es .
is is an nt em ng , ly in ns re y an ke on ny es , nd he st of ng ed es or ll es is gh .
ne us le is er on , re re re ns of ds of ts ch we ht nt a er to ze .
er le is in al ty ng , re he al is to ne he rd or ct a on is ng ut by ng an ge of at ns al ty .
it is le to ct al ng es or ry le rd in sh , so to ld a al al er we st ve a ay to te to ng ds nd se in he ng et .
is em is ar to he es of ic ch on , re it is le to ze ds ut ly ng em ng er ng .
to ve ry ce , ch on ms ly oy a me - ed on gy ( el , 23 ) .
es re he nt ts ch an be ed to ct he ds of a ge .
ch on ms ed by ng a ly ll et of me
rs in on th a ge ge se ng ds as ns of to ly a ar ch to al ty ng , we st er ow to er he po - nt ts of a ds ng om al ty .
le re is no ar us as to ow he in es ic on ( ut , 23 ) , re re al ed ns at ht ve as a ge se of al ty , us ng a al er to ze a ge et of le ds , en en se ds re ed om a ng et .
he al on is er ks is :
en a ic ng of a ge et of pt es , an we ld a er to ze es at re ed om he ng et ? we de a al rk or ng is on nd a te le or he sk of al ty ng .
we ow it is le to ld a er at an ze ds a on is ng ut , en ut ng es or se ar ds .
23 ed rk
he em of ro - ot ng as ed le on in he ne ng ty .
me rk by le et al .
( 23 ) on ro - ta ng as wn he ty to ct el es of ts at re ed om a ng et .
in er on , es or ng es ss ct es ve en ed ( ba & hy , 3; rt & an , 23 ) ut ly le rk as ed on ng ly el es , th he on of rt et al .
( 23 ) ng al es of ew ts nd di et al .
( 23 ) ng al ty ns or ct on .
in he al ng ty , ay et al .
( 23 ) as wn he ty to de ( om al ex ty ) ch el al es a on is ng om a ge et of le es , ut ut ng he ge nt er se .
he rk st ar to ur wn is ll ( 23 ) .
ey se ic es ed om us cs to te a al ty rn or ny un in sh .
in ur rk , by st , we us on rd ng , re en a el al ge , we sh to ct he rd om a ge et of le ds .
we so er ic es at re ed om an ng in on to us cs .
er , we ce a sm or a ro - ot er nd de al es on ts ty to ze el es ed om a
23 on th ic ge
in is on we ze he on of a ro - ot er at es ic ge to ap - te to el es .
le a ro - ot er ld ke ny ms , we nt ne ch el at es an te et of es ed om a ic ge se .
ly , ur al is to at ch ss ot as ly an ic el , ut ad nt it ng a or of ic es ng a ge er of le es .
ur ls ll rn he ip en ut ta nd he ic es .
ey ll se is ed ip in a wo ep on re to er he ss el or el ut ta .
en ew ut ta , he ls ll ct a et of ic es ng to at ut , nd en nd he ss in he ge se at st es at et of ed es .
ly , is re ll en rk or ut ta om a el ss if at ss is ed in he ic ge se ( i . e .
en if no ut ce on is le or he ss , ut a re ng of it ts in he ic ge se ) .
on 23
ic re ce a ic re ce of p ns is a ic ce in ch ch of he p ns es he ue of a ic ty .
se es ay be al in re or ay in al - ed ta .
as an le , er a ic ce or ng gh - el es of ls .
in is le , ll er a ll ce th ly p = 23 ns .
ch on es a is it ry ? es it ve a il ? an it he er ? is it us ? is it ow ng ? in is ic re ce , he al pt of og ht be ed as he nt ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
on 23
ic ge se a ic ge se k of m es is a on of rs ( f , y ) 23 : m ch at f f p is a nt in a p al ic ce f p nd y y is a ss el om a et y .
we me a ne - to - ne ng en ss ls nd ts in he ic re ce .
a ge se of ls ld in he ic ng nd el or ny ls .
on 23
ic ut de er a ic ut de er h : x d y ps ts om me d al aw - ut ce x d to a el om a et y ch at h is he on of wo er ns , s nd l ,
h = l ( s ( ) ) : x d f p l : f p y
is el of a ro - ot er st ps om a d al aw - ut ce x d to a ic ce of p ns f p , nd en ps is ic ng to a ss el .
or le , we ay ne me aw - ut es om a al ge of a og st ed to he ic ng of a og ed er , ch is en ed to he ss el og .
as a lt , ur ss ls an be ht of as a ic ut de , ar in it to he or - ng ut es of ch nd ri ( 23 ) .
as rt of ts ng ut , is er is en a et of n es d at ts of rs ( x , y ) 23 : n ch at x x d nd y y .
he er is so en a ge se k of m es at is a on of rs ( f , y ) 23 : m ch at f f p nd y y .
ly , m >> n , ng at ta in ic ce is le or ny re ss ls an in he aw - ut a ic ut de er an be ul en he ge se k rs re of he le es or y an re ed by he ut ta d .
to rn he ng s , he er st ds a ew et of n es ( x , f ) 23 : n by ng ch y th he ve ic ng f ng to ts ge se k .
he on nd ng is wo - ge ss is at he er ay be le to rn he ip en he aw - ut ce nd he al ns of he ic re ce om a ly ll er of ng es in he ut ce .
en a ew le is ed , he er ll ke a on ut ts ic ng ng he ed s ap .
en en a ew le gs to a ss at id ot ar in he ng et d , if he on ed by he s ap is se to he ue ng of at ss , en he l ap ll ve a le ce of ng he ct el .
as a te le , if he el an ct he ct as ur nd a il , it ld ve a od ce of ng he ss el og , en ut ng en es of gs ng ng .
in rt : by ng a ch ic ng of he es , he er ay be le to te nd ze el es .
23 al is
in is on we er al es of a ic ut de er at ne ts ty to ze es of el es .
in er ds , we ll ss he on : er at ns ll he ic ut de er ze es om es ed om ts ng et ?
in ng is on , ur al is to in a ac - le nd : we nt to ow ow ch or an be ed in he on of he ic es le ll ng he el ss th gh ty .
we ll en se is or nd to in a nd on he er of es ry to ve at el of or in he st ge of he er .
he ea is at if he st ge s ( ) of he er an ct he ic es ll , en he nd ge l ( ) ll ve a od ce of ng he ct el or es om el es .
as a st ep ds a al ry of ro - ot ng , we ll er ne on of a ic ut de er .
we ll me at ic es re ry ls , he st ge s ( ) is a on of ac - le ar rs ( ne er er re ) , nd he nd ge l ( ) is a 23 - st or er ng he ng ce ic .
by ng se ns , we an ge ng ac ry or ar rs as ll as ry or te st or ch .
ch of ur st - or is ls he rk of ia nd la ( 23 ) .
we st nt to nd he nt of or we an te en a on of ic es .
to nd is nd , we ne f to be he on in ic re ce of ts om he ge se k .
ly ts ( es ) in ic ce ay ot be nt om ch er .
a nt ht be ar om rs , ch ld ow re om or or in he on of ic es or is nt , le ng he ty to er ts ue ty ( el ) .
ly , a nt se to rs in ic ce ll ve er ce of or .
in rt , he ce or or is ve to a ar nt in on to er ts in ic ce .
we xt ne a on q to be he ut of he s ( ) ap ed to me aw - ut le x x d .
et d ( q , q ( id : 23 ) ) be he ce en he on q nd me er nt q ( id : 23 ) ng a ss in he ic ce .
we ne he ve on rq or a nt q as he ty at he ce om q to q ( id : 23 ) is ss an me ce z :
is al on ds on f nd is st he on of ed ts om f at re ss an me ce z ay om q .
ng is on , we an so ne a on on he ce to he st or of q , ed as q :
rq ( z ) = p ( d ( q , q ( id : 23 ) ) z )
gq ( z ) = p ( q z )
ch is en in ia ( 23 ) as :
gq ( z ) = 23 ( 23 rq ( z ) ) n
re n is he er of al ts wn om he on f .
ow se at we ne q to be he ce a on q or aw - ut le x is om he ue ic ng of he ss to ch x gs .
ly , he ss we er or ut x is ng to be he nt st to on q , so we nt a ll ty at he ce q to he ue ss is er an he ce en q nd ts st or , ce at ld an re is a us or er to q in ic ce an he nt ng qs ue ss :
p ( q q )
ng we an ut is in ms of he on gq nd en an ve or q :
p ( q q )
if gq ( ) re le , we ld ly er he ue q or a ed .
or me ns , gq ( ) ay ot be a 23 - to - 23 on , so re ay ot be an se .
ut gq ( ) ll er se ce it is a ve on on .
we ll re ne a on 23 ch at : 23 so ng st or or l ( ) , if q 23 q ( ) , en we ll er he ct ss th at st 23 ty .
to re at we ve is or nd , we ed to ke re he al or of s ( ) is ss an 23 .
we me in is is at we ve p ry ic es nd a ng ce ic , so ax es he al
q ( ) ch we ne as ax
q ( ) = xq
er of es we an ke ng he ry es .
te th ur ns , ch ic re is ac - le ng a ar er om a d al aw ut ce .
to fy he is , we ll at ch of he p ic es as ly ed .
by he ac on , he ue or ( i . e .
ty of he er ng a ke ) of ch of he p ed es is , en he ed er of es er he p ic es ll be es is en by he al on : df ( ax we an in he ed or te or ch is by ng he rd ac nd or vc - 23 ( ll , 23 ) .
to in a is th ( 23 ) ty at as ue or at st = ax
/ p = 23 ( ) / p , en he er es a er of es mq , :
er , he ty of ng at st ax
if we et = ax
; p , ax
og ( 23 / ) + 23 ( d + 23 ) og ( 3p / ax
if ch of he p rs ( re rs ) is ed th is ny es , en th ob - ty ( 23 ) p , ll re rs ll ve he ed or te .
ut te at is is ly he ty of ng p es th he ed ue or te .
he al df ds es al , nd he ( 23 ) rm ve es he he ty of ng at st ax ty of ng he ue ss if a um of is ny es re de .
re , re re ee ic ts ed or he ic ut de er to ct a el ss nd he al ( nt ) ty of se ts is :
p ( re re p re rs th ue or ax p ( at st ax p ( ng ue ss | at st ax
es de | re re p re rs th ue or ax
nd ce ax
q ( ) , he al ty is en by : ( 23 ) p df ( 23
q ( ) ; p , 23
q ( ) / p ) ( 23 )
in ry , en ed or rs ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) or he wo er es , on 23 es he al ty of ly ng a el ss .
en he ue or we an te he ry or ch re or .
we re ed to in he al ty if he re rs re ed th mq , aw - ut es as ed in on 23
to ur ge , ns 23 nd 23 fy he st al ee at es ns er ch a er an ct el es .
23 se dy : al ng of el ts
in is on we ly te a ic ut de er on a al ng sk .
he ve is to de el ds a on is ng ut om ri es of he ns al ty , ut ng le ri es of se ds ng ng .
we ed he me ri et om ll ( 23 ) .
is et ns he al ty ed om ne an ts le ng 23 nt te ds ( 23 es om 23 nt es ) .
me es de ls : ar , og , at , ow , se nd es : ck , ar , in , ne , le .
ch nt as wn a rd nd a ll ne ng of he te ct he rd ts .
he ts re ed to nk ut he es of se ts or al ds le es of ir in ty re ed .
ch ge es he al ty at ly 23 , 23 ns ( i . e .
ls ) in he in .
ix ri ns re en or ch rd .
we ed he me me - ng ed in ll ( 23 ) to te a le ge in ty rn or ch of he 23 ds , or ch nt .
he vc on of ar rs in d ns is d + 23
in he ge of he ic ut de er , is et ts he on d of aw - ut ce es .
we so ed wo ic ge es or se 23 ds .
in he st ic wl - ge se , 23 , ch rd is ed as a co - ce or th he 23 st nt ds om he le on - rd - 23
he nd ic ge se , 23 , as ed ng he al rk an on ce om on . om .
re re 23 ic es ed or he 23 ds , nd he ns re ed to ct al es ut al ty ng .
or le , he ns ed to ze , pe , ce es , nd al ge .
le ns de is it de ? nd an ou ld it ? .
rs of he al rk ce ed se ns or ch rd on a le of 23 to 23 ( ly ot to ly es ) .
in ur ts , we se le ut ar on to rn he s ( ) ap of he ic ut de er .
et x ( id : 23 ) nd be a ng et of ri es re ch ow is he ge or a ar rd nd d is he er of ns of he ri ge .
ng ng , we se he el - ty - on at es ot se he ss ls ed in ll ( 23 ) to ce d om ut 23 , 23 ls to 23
et y ( id : 23 ) np be a ix of ic es or se ds ( ed om he ge se k ) re p is he er of ic es or at
rd ( e . g .
23 or he 23 ge se ) .
we rn a ix of ts ( id : 23 ) w ( id : 23 ) dp
is el , ch ut is ed ly , so we an ve ll of em ly in ne ix on ( en th ds of ic es ) :
( id : 23 ) w = ( xt x + i ) xt y
re i is he ty ix nd is a on er en ly ng he ss - on ng on ( ie et al . , 23 ) 23
en a el ri ge x , we an in
a on ( id : 23 ) f of he ic es or is ge by ng he ge by he ts : ( id : 23 ) f = x ( id : 23 ) w er .
in er ds , l ( ( id : 23 ) f ) ll ke he on of es nd rn he st nt in a
or he nd ge of he ic ut de er , l ( ) , we ly se a 23 - st or
en ge se ng he an ce ( 23 ) ic .
ng he el nd ts ed ve , we ow se nd er ee nt ns .
an we ld a er to te en wo es , re er ss ed in he ng et ? to er is on , we ed a ve - wo - ut - ss - on .
ly , we ed he el in on 23 to rn he ng en 23 ri es nd he ic es or ir ve ds .
or he st ld ut ge , we ed he ed ht ix to in a on of he ic es , nd en we ed a 23 - st or er to re he or of ns to he ue ic gs of he wo ld - ut ds .
he el as en by ng he rd th he ng st to he on or he ri ge .
we en ed he me st ng he nd ld - ut ge .
us , or ch on of he ss -
on , wo te ns re de .
is ss as ed or ll ( id : 23 ) 23
( id : 23 ) = 23 , 23
le ve - wo - ut ns ng to 23 , 23 al ns .
le 23 ws he ts or wo nt ic re gs .
we ee at he 23 ic es ly ed he 23 es , th an es er he ne ts of 3% nd 3% ly .
ut or th re ts , we ee at it is le to te en wo el es or ch of he ne ts .
rs re ed to it th nd do ot de 23 op ds ke a , he , is we te he ss - on re or ch sk nd se he er at es he ge
ss ss ll ut ks .
le 23 : nt es or ve - wo - ut - ss - on or 23 ri ts ( ed 23 - 23 ) .
he es nt er ge cy er 23 , 23 ls en ng be - en wo ri es , th of ch re ed om he ng et .
re 23 : en ic es om he 23 ge se or he ds ar nd og .
he ue ng is wn ng th he ed ng en ri es or ar nd og re ft ut of he ng et .
ow is he er le to te en ly ed el es ? re 23 ws en ic ns ( es ) om he 23 et .
he ph ws he ue es ng th he ed re es or th ar nd og en ed on he er 23 ds .
we ee he el is le to rn to ct ny of he ey es at rs nd gs ve in on ch as is it an al ? as ll as se at te en he wo , ch as do ou ee it ly ? nd an ou ld it ? or th of se el ds , he es ed om he al ta re st to he ue rd .
an we de he rd om a ge et of le ds ? en he ss of he ic ut de er at ng en he in es or wo el ds , we ow er he ch er em of ng a el rd om a ge et of te ds .
to st is ty , we ed a ve - ne - ut - ss - on , re we ed ng on 23 on es nd ic es or 23 ds .
we en re - ed he es or he ld - ut ge of he th rd , nd en ed a 23 - st or on in a ge et of te ds .
we ed wo nt rd ts .
he st as 23 ch is he on of ll 23 te ns or ch we ed ri ta , ng he 23 ng ds nd he le ld ut rd .
he nd et as 23 , a on of 23 sh ns th gh ty , ss nd ty , ed om on ( 23 ) nd ss ( 23 ) .
or is et of ds , we ed he ue ld - ut rd to he et of 23 on ch ss - on on .
we ed is nt ng th he 23 nd 23 re ts .
he nk cy ts ( er 23 ss - on ns ) of he ur ts re wn in re 23
he 23 es in ly rm 23 on th an nd an nk cy es , nd th re ts rm ll ve ce .
on 23 of 23 al ns of he 23 ds ( 23 ns or ch of ne ts ) , he 23 es ed he le ld - ut rd ve ll 23 er ds in ts ng et .
le st a it ve ce el ( 23 / 23 ) , he ct at he el er es he ld - ut rd er ll he ng ds is hy ce he el is ly ed ds ng re es ar to he ds on ch it as ed .
on he 23 ds , he el ed he ct rd om he et of 23 es a al of 23 es or he 23 es nd 23 es or he 23 es .
or me ts , he el ly ed he ht
ar & og on ch - 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 . 23 . 23 . is it al ? is it an - de ? do ou it ly ? is ul ? an ld it ? ld nd it in se ? do ve it ? es nd wo gs ? is it ld ? es on ? ar ar og og ed re 23 : he an nd an nk es ss ne ts or wo nt ic re ts .
th he al 23 ri ds nd a et of 23 ns re ed .
le 23 : he op ve ed ds or a el ri ge en or he rd in ld ( ll ri es en om nt 23 ) .
he er in he es ns he nk of he ct rd ed om 23 te ns in sh .
rd om he et of 23 re an 3% of he me .
he ce cy of ng a rd ly is ly 3% , ng we ld ct ss an ne ct on ss ll 23 as re 23 ws , he an nk es re en ly er an he an nk es .
ng he 23 es on he 23 ds , he an nk cy is ve 3% or ch nt le he an is ly ut 3% er .
is is ue to he ct at al ds re ly ed ly .
he on of ds in he es ni - ls , dy ts , ds , ls , nd es ly rm ll , le he ds in he es re , an - de ms , nd ts en rm ly .
en en he ct rd is ot he st ch , he ds at st ch he ed es re en ry ar to he ld - ut rd .
le 23 ws he op ve ed ds or ht nt ld - ut ri es or nt 23 ( i . e .
he 23 st ds in he et of 23 to he ed or of ic es ) .
we ed a sm or a ro - ot ng hm wn as he ic ut de er .
is er an ct el es at re ed om a ng et by ng a ic ge se at es es on to th he el es nd he ng et .
we so ed he st al ee at ws ns er ch is er ll ct el es .
we ed is ic ut de er on he sk of al ng ng ic ge es ed om th an ng nd us cs .
we ed is er an ct he rd a on is ng ut om a ed ri ge of at ns al ty th cy ch er an ce , en en ng es or at ar rd re ed om he ng et nd he er as ed to ck he rd om ng ly 23 , 23 es .
we ve wn at ng es of in ty re ot ed or ry rd we ld ke a er to ze .
se ts ly ce he te - of - he - rt in al ng nd re a ng ep ds a ge ry in - er ce .
