st ng ms at re ed to xt at - on ms ly on a ag - of - ds nt on , i . e . , ch rd ng in he cu - nt is ed as a te re .
in is er , we te he se of ic es as ut ea - es or xt on ms .
se es re ed on on on ns at re ed nd ed by he og - ts nt al ts on ng ch es as nd ge or wo ne ng go - ms on a on sk on he ww .
he re - ts ow at al es an ve he re - on of ed es at he se of ge .
st ne ng ms or xt za - on nt ts as a ag of ds .
ly , ch rd is ed as a te re .
or am - le , a ml - nt ht be ed as he me ge of a nt if he rd nt rs on he ge .
er , nt ll so ur on ny er es on he ww , ng st es of er ci - ce ts .
on he er nd , a ce ke " i am a nt of er ce at ie el - on ty " is ly ve of a ts me ge .
it is th ng at ne of he ds at ap - ar in is ce re od rs of a nt me ge , or is ny et of se ds , se ll of em re te on on es ed ns ol of er ce .
23 at es a ce is he ic le at se ds ve in
ed or on on ( ff 3a ) , is le to de a er th es at re me of he ic uc - re of al ge xt .
or he ve ut en - ce , it ts he ng ur es : i am _> ,
23 in is ce , he st ve ds or a nt me ge re i nd am .
ey re te le es or he em of ng en nt es nd er al es nd , or is sk , ld ot be ed by a op st ( ee so ( en et al .
3a ) ) .
_> is nt , nt of _> , nd nt at _> . 23 ll ur of em re ly ve of nt es nd at st ee of em re te ly to ar on er es of es .
te at he st of se , nt at _> , es ot ch a us ce of xt , ut is ed on al nt to he rd nt .
in us rk ( e . g . ,
( ff & en 23 ) ) , ng ts on he ss of ch es or ks re ed ng le ng ds to nd he st si - ms .
in is er , we rt on me er - he ty of ch ts at ed at ng es as es ng ms , ly he ve es er ow nd he te - nd - er hm i ~ er .
he se dy is ed in a
or wo te - of - he - rt
sk on he ww .
ng al es
og as ed as a od or ti - ly ng in - ic on ns us .
as ut , au - om an ed og es a et of un es , on at ld be ed om he ng en es ic cs to te ic ns at an ct he ed on om he ng ts ( nd om un - en ts ) .
he ed ns nt ct - rb or rb - ct - ct ( e . g . , t> es or es ct - t> ) as ll as al se ts ( e . g . , at un - e> or er at un - e> ) .
ee ( ff 3b ) or a re ed on of au -
he ey ce
en og nd he al of he
ed or an ed or ll un ly es on es in he ng us se ic es ne of he cs .
le 23 ws ee of he 23 ic cs ed in he nt
we se le ts <> to nt
ub j> ux - rb un un ep un - e>
i am _> _> is nt nt of _> nt at _>
le h ic cs at re ed or ng al es in he ce " i am a nt of om - er ce at ie on ty . "
of ds ng in ts of at
ss nt of ir xt .
by ng so , in - ow es he ve ce on .
re he ty of nt d ng to ss c is ed by ng he or ty pr ( c ) of ss c th he ct of he es pr ( ic ) at he rd wi rs in ts of is ss .
is ct is en ed by he ct of he or es pr ( wi ) of ll ds .
at an be ed
on of og - ts as ll as ir nd - ng on ns le ce " i am a nt of er ce at ie on ty " .
te at he rd ce in he me ic ic of le 23 es ce ng wo nt al ts ms of he to he un nt .
so , he nt rb to be re ot ed or he st er , in al ds at ur in nt ms ll ot be ed in he me ay .
or le , he ce " re re he ts at ur nt " ll ot ch he st on rn of le 23 , se he rd nt rs in al at he al on tu - ts at _> rs re ly on al es an on nt me es .
at ch ll es in he se of ds an ke a ig ce or xt on as ly ed in ( ff 23 ) .
a et of ts ed ce or ce of ic es of he ve rm an be ly ed or ng nt ts of he st in of he th ge ng ce ( uc - 23 ) ( ff & en 23 ) .
it ms ly
in is er , we re he al se of he ed by og - ts as al es or te - of - he - rt in he ng , we ll ly be he ng al - ms nd he st in ( ng ww es ed to er ce ts ) , nd en is - ss he ts of ur ts .
es th wo
he se of al
he ve es si - er ow nd he le ng hm ip - er .
he ta et ed or ur ts is he 23 - es et , ch as en ed or he kb ct at ie on ty .
um at 23
it es a nt is a er of a in ss ng he
is a ve es er ks ( ll 23 ) , ed by ew
or xt si -
om tp : / / ww .
du / af s / cs /
pr ( ld ) : = pr ( c )
as ny of he es
pr ( wi ( c ) re pi -
ly 23 ( ce ir ct ll be 23 ) , ow es he es ng he ue ed by en & ll ( 23 ) .
a ed em - - ct at or xt on ks ny es of pr ( c ( d ) or he ng ss nd to be se to 23 nd en ll be ly 23 se of ng - nt nd - ff rs - - is ed by ng an on to te a on rm ed on ck - er ce .
is on es ot ge of he ts , ut es re ic ty es .
is on as ed in ur ts to in er ce es or he ns , ch we ed or ng re - hs .
a re ed on of is ng ue nd of ow an be nd in ( en et al .
3a ) .
( an 23 ) ) il
23 ( en 23 ) is an nt , se - nt le ng hm ed on he al ed or ng hm ( nz ~ er 3; nz 23 ) .
it ns le es by ly ng ne on at a me ( ng ls ma - on in ic er es ct ns on he ng et , a ly en et of he ng et .
re - he ed le is ed by ng di - ns as ng as he ce of he le es ot se on he ng et of es ( he ng et ) .
ll es ed by he ng le re en ed om he ng et nd a ew le is ed in he me ay il ll es re ed by at st ne le .
us , er is a er of he am - ly of te - nd - er ( or ng ) le ng ms ( nz 23 ) .
at es er ly ll - ed or xt on ms is ts ty to se et - ed es ( en 23 ) .
or al ne rn - ng ms , a nt is ly ed as a et of ry es , ch ng he ce or ce of a ar rd in at nt .
is ts in a ry nt ng of he ng ex - es se ch ce is ed or ng he
ct / eo - 23 i / ww / ve - es
le 23 : ss on
in he 23 es ta
ce of ds in a nt .
er ws to ep - nt a nt as a le et - ed re ly ts ll he ds ng in he xt .
on - ly , rs se of ch a et - ed re is an he se of ry es in en - ng ms , gh er es se of me ns .
or he er of is er , we ll ue to nk of ch rd ( or se ) as te ry re .
he kb ct he al of he kb ct ( en et al .
3b ) is to ct a er - le ge se om he ww se ts rs he ts of ld be ed or he ww .
ny ns ch a ge se .
or le , it ld ce he es of ly le ch es at an ly er rd - ce es ( e . g . , al - ta ) or at ly on a ly ed wl - ge se ut he ts of ww es ( e . g . , ya - oo ) by ng em to er ns se x at ty y ? " or " ow ny ts re in nt z ? " .
ly , a to - pe em es an gy of on es er ce ts ( ts , es , ts , ts ) nd ns en em ( e . g . , or x is he or of se nd he or of nt z ) .
he pe ls he et nd es ed ge to fy es of er ce ts to at gy .
in er to sh he er th me ed do - in ge , a et of 23 , 23 ng ts as om he ww es of us er ce ts .
23 ut lf of he es re a ly ve et of es om he er ce ts of ur es : ll , as , is - in , nd on .
he ng 23 , 23 es re re or ss ly ed es om us er ce ts .
he es re nu - ly ed to he es nt , ty , ff , se , ct , nt , nd er .
le 23 ws he cy ns of se es in he ta
: / / ww .
du / fs / cs ,
he er ss is a ry us ss at ns es nd at se ts at re ot ed as ny of he ix nt es .
te , ow - at ne of he ns de in ly ng he es as at ch al - ld ty is ed by ly ne ge .
us , if , e . g . , a ac - ty er es is al me ge as a xt nt ng te es or is ch ts , is ns , is cv , nd nt - rs to he ch ts he is ed in , ly he op ge at ks se ns er ld be ed to nt im in he ss ty , le ll er es ld be ed as er .
is is ly ot a ct on , as er le ht ze he me on to a le ge .
us it an be ed to be rd to te en er - in es of he er ss nd es of he nt
a re ed on of is ta et nd of me us rk an be nd in ( en et al .
or ur ts , ll es re ed of ir ml gs , ed to er se , nd ll ts re ed th a d .
oc - ts as un on ch oc - nt nd he ed on ns re en - ed as ne - rd ns nd ut to a te le .
we ed ee nt hm : ne re ch rd as ed as a ea - re , ne re ch se ( on rn ) as ed as a re , nd ne re th re id - ed as es .
or he st se , ng es re ly ed to ce he ut es ow , le or er we ed ch cu - nt th wo et - ed es , ne ng he ds in he nt , he er ng he ns at nt he ed al es .
he ms re ed ng he me ce - re as in ( en et al .
3b ) : ch nt on - ts of ur ns , in ch he es of ne of he ur es re ft ut in rn .
us , ch ng et ts of he 23 , 23 es om us er - es us he es om ee of he ur es .
he ts of ch of he ur ns re ed us - ng ro - ng , i . e . , he ns de or he ur st ts re wn er nd ll on es re ed on is ed et .
he re - cy on of he es in is ed st et is wn in he nd mn of le 23
ss ed se , er as ed th ts lt ns .
it ld be ed at in is ng , er ts he es ng to ir se re - cy nd ns on ts or ng ne ss st ll es ed ow it .
ce , he is ed as a lt ss nd no es re ed or it .
in he ex - ts th ow , we de se of ts lt - in ng , nd es
at ed ly ce re
in ur se he er ss ,
le 23 : ll ve cy
ot ed .
he ts th er re ed ut ng nd ut ny rm of re et on .
ge es nd re ed
in ms of ve cu - le 23 ws he ts cy on he 23 st ts ed .
he ts re te se .
or ow , he se of es es re - ve cy , le or er , he te is he se .
an on of he on es ( ot wn ) ws at is is ly ue to an se in he er of es at re ed as er .
or le , ut 3% of he es do ot in ny by lt .
is se in he er of es or ch a nt to ne of he ix nt es is de , in me se , ms at he al ea - es re ch re ve in ir ns : ey nd to ar ss ly , ut me of em re ly al or in es .
is as a si - ve ct on he ll cy , se ow ng rd - ed es es ly 23 es as er , le he st et ns 23 es of is ss .
ow ng al es es es as er ut ly rs on in he ix nt es .
is ns at he ty of er es is ed to ne of he ix nt es , us ng a ow ll cy nd a ow on , as we ll ee in he xt on .
he 23 ty es .
ow
is se or er , ch si - es 23 es as er ng ds , le ng 23 es as er en ng ly es .
ce , or er , se on cy is ve he lt cy ( 3% ) , ng re es er as a ve ct on ts ce .
in he er of es ed th he lt ss re so he in on or he ge ce es of he wo ms .
ne on or is on ht be he re of of he er ss , ch is ly es at re ry ar it ht ll be he se at is em es er es on a ar er ch as ow , as he le er er is er le to us on he ll es en ar es in nt es .
it ht so be he se at in he al up ( ng ,
to es of he nt
to in ny
, % ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23 - - - - - -
re 23 : ed on / ll ( om ) nd er ( op ) .
ng of es at ur ly ce ) ed to is ct , ut it ot be ts le se , se no ng as ed on he al es
re ng , er , is a er ok at he re - hs wn in re 23
in is ph , ll ns he ge of ly ed ex - es of he ix nt es ( ot ng er ) , le on ns he ge of ct ic - ns in ll ns or es of se es .
or ng se hs , we ed a fi - ce re th ch on .
he ce as - ed th a ns of ow is ly he
23 i am _> 23 _> is nt 23 nt in _> 23 ty of _> 23 or of _> 23 _> is or 23 i am _>
_> is te
23 er of _> 23 ed _> 23 ed _> 23 ed _> 23 nt of _> 23 te _> 23 te _> 23 _> ue 23 ue _> 23 ll _>
le 23 : he st ee es or ch ss nd ir nk in a ed st of es in he es
nt : - my ,
st cy ( on ) : 23
nt : - i am _> ,
_> is nt , te of _> .
st cy ( as ) :
nt : - my ,
_> is nt ,
st cy ( as ) :
ed ty of he le ng in he re - ed ss .
er es ot de ty ti - es , so we ed th ch on of er a ce ue l_ re e ( i ) is he er ng es at re ly ( ly ) as - ed by he le at ed he ss or is am - le .
23 we se he ce - te or ng he cy of a le in er to ze es at er ly a ew es .
we ed he on of he ms at 3% ts in ll .
a ll el of 3% is nt to ly ng ut 23 of he 23 es of he ix nt es .
he on at a ll el of n% as ed by st ng he ns or es of he nt es ng to ir ce re .
en we nt wn he st il er of ct ns ed n% of he al er of es of he nt es , i . e . , il we ad ed n% of he es of se es .
he er of ct ns er he al er of ns in at nt of he st is he on re ed th at ll el .
if a ll of n% as ed in a es of ns th al ce es , we ed to ss he st il he ce re ed .
ce , in me es , he ts or he on / ll es re ot ly ed up at 3% ts .
~ te at se re ot ly nt to he er of es at re ly or ly si - ed by he le in on , se er ns on ts .
is ns at he ed es re ed in er , nd ly es at re ot ed by us es an be ed by nt es .
le 23 : he es th st ce es or ds , es , nd ds ly , th he er of ct nd ct ns ey ke on ir ve ng nd st ts .
in th hs , it is nt at at er ll
he al es rm he rd - ed on .
is ts he is at me al es re ly ve or in es , ut in al ve ow ge .
is is ly us in he nt se of he um re - ll or er if it es ly al es .
or he ed on re re se : ow ns er ts to rd - ed es an to al es , so at he ts or he ed on re ly ed by he ds .
le 23 es is by ng he op ee es or ch ss , nd ir nk in he st of es ed by a ed og - ds io
ut en
ed es ne he pe of he ve , he on of al es ts in ll ve - ts at ll ll ls .
he on is te ar or er in he se at ly a ew of he ed es ly se he al es .
er , he es ly oc - ur in es th a gh ce re nd ke a al ce at he ow ll nd of he ph .
le 23 ws , or ch of he ee ns , he le at as ed he st ce re ed on ts ce on he ve
it is ry ng to ve at he st le or he rd - ed re et nd he st le or he es on re st al .
th re he ce of he rd my nd a en - it er ( st ly a ne er ) .
er , es he es - le he rd - ed on ce of he ds am nd nt , es he ce of he se _> is nt .
ll at ll ts ng ce " i am a nt . " ch th ns , be - se he se es ll ms of he ry rb to be .
ng at he es of se wo es ws at he st ne es 23 es in he re ta et , 23 of ch ng on - nt es , le he nd le es ly 23 es , ut ll of em re of he ss nt .
ms vs .
es
" h+ w ( ow )
he le at as ed ng ly he al ea - es an be ly ed as ng ll oc - ts at in he ce " i am a nt at of _> . " as nt me es .
le is le is le nd te , it as a ch er ge an th er es .
it is so ng to te at he rd le on -
he nt on
he nt on nt .
ly , rs on in ic st ed is on er he re te se at ns he rd , se he rd re ad er er - ge .
er it ed at he se as to be ed is ot ed se rs ng hm ly rs he al of a al ce of ns om a le / it ld be ed at it is no ce at ll ee es re ng he ss nt .
in ct , st of he ts at he ow ll nd of he es is ue to ve ts in he re - on of he nt ss .
on / ll or is ss ok ry ar to he hs wn in re 23 , le or he er ve nt es no ra - ic ts ld be ed .
we ve en in le 23 at ow es a at er im - ce to al es in he er 23 es , nd an on of he ed es ws at ly a ew of he op - ed es or es er an tu - nt ly se al es .
is ay be ly ue to he ct at re re oo ew ng es or me of se es .
we an to er te is on a re ed ta et , ke he 23 ps ta ed in ( ng 23 ) .
wo er ng
re 23 re he es
to ke in ig - in um ll en
is ne of
en er nd
al al ed or ng hm , ch - - ss ly - - rs ll ns as es or ng ( nz & er 23 ) .
we ve so ed er he nt ss ns a er ge of al ge xt , ut we ld ot ly rm is is ( ng he de re er of es er ss er er of ds er ss ) .
re 23 : on / ll nd er ( om ) ng ds us bi -
es or ow
ow nd er , nd he nt on at he ow ll nd or ow .
he or - er is ue to ct at ow ss es as er , us ng he ge of ed es in he nt es at he se of on .
we re at he er on is ed by io - ns of he ce on of ve es , ch ds to ly ic ce es or or le , if he se _> is nt rs in a nt , it is te ly at at st ne of he es nt at / in / of _> ll oc - ur in he me ce , ch ll ly st he at is nt is a nt me ge .
le he ts of he st on ve wn at al es an ve he on of xt as - at he se of ll , ne an sk er ar ts ld ve en ed by ng se - es of ds ad of le ds as es .
to is nd , we ve ed me of he ve ex - ts ng a on at rs le ds nd rs of ds ( ms ) as es .
he me on or ow , we ed he pe of he re - as th he se of es : ve is ed by he rd - ed es , ut he on is ly er .
he wo es at he om of re 23 re he ll / on es or ds us ds or ow .
re re no le es ll ak or he se on at a ll el of 3% .
a on of he st am es ( ta - le 23 ) to he st se es ( le 23 ) ws at he ge nk of he op ee es ng he
23 me ge 23 ut nc 23 rt of 23 ut nc 23 he rt 23 ut nc 23 of ut 23 iv of 23 hi in 23 ce du 23 in es 23 ch up 23 io ex 23 ex pt 23 ll be 23 ic ur 23 he rs
le 23 : he st ee ms or ch ss nd ir nk in a ed st of es
in he ds
nt : - my ,
st cy ( on ) : 23 23
le 23 : a ly ed le ng ms th he er of ct nd ct ns it es on ng nd st es .
ar to be ss le ( cf . , e . g . , es ff nd ct ) .
is er or ms , le ey he es or
or er , er , he on
he er wo es of re 23 , he se ta - on ms he am on at he ow ll nd .
ng at he es at ly re , we nd at , ke he es of le 23 , or he ms he le th he st ce is ot ne of he 23 op - ed es of he nt ss in he ve ds of he 23 - ld ss - on .
he le wn in le 23 is st ar to he es wn in le 23
it is ed er 23 by ur ce re .
ds es ms 23 , 23 23 , 23 23 , 23
le 23 : er of es ed by ow
es it es is ch er an he er es er rs .
it an be en at , gh re re ly re nt es an ds , ir rs re in ut he me er of de , le he er of ms nd in he ts is ne er of de er .
ur ts ve wn at he se of ic es an ve he on of xt on at he ow ll nd .
or he le ng hm p ~ er , ng ch es as le to st he re - on by ut 3% to re an 3% en ng ut 3% of he 23 st es of a xt go - sk on he ww .
gh al es re re ng rt ( e . g . , he ax of th he ng nd he st ts as to be ed ) , ey ly de a er us or le rn - ng ms .
is ct as ss le or he ve es er
at we ed .
ss , it ld be ed at we re ot le to ve he on of he rs at gh ll he on ng at he al es pi - ly ve a ry ow us .
er , it ld so be ed at he st in ed in ur se dy ay ot ve en an al ce or ng ty of al es , se nt ts of ww es do ot in al us , we an to er te ly ed xt on as he 23 ps et rs re on
( ng 23 ) nd he ( en & er 23 ) .
on he er nd , we re so ng on er ng he on cy on he 23 si - es ta et ed in is se dy .
or le , ll es ed in is dy ed ry ly on he ct ss ( on as ly ow 3% ) .
he on or is is st ly he us na - re of cs at re lt th on ct es .
we ve at is em an be ed by ng at he on at is ed on or ar he ks at nt to ch es nd an to te to se ed in er ng es ar
it is th to ke a ok at he er of nt es at re ed by he ng al - ms ( le 23 ) .
ll at we ed ow th ng on ds nd ms , as ll as ng of ll es at ur ly ce , so he er of ea -
or le , ne of he st ic ds or he es ty nd ff is he rd " ax " , ch is re ly to ur in es an in he al an - ge on of a eb - ge .
is ed by a er - ( 23 - nf ) of he an ds ur rt by he pa
ng er en kb am er ct en ff es rt om sf ts ri - 23 nd ri - 23
we sh to nk rk ch or ng
he og - ts ta .
