he ld de eb is a st ce of on le to rs , ut le ly to ns .
he al of he ch ed re is to ly te a er le ge se se nt rs at of he ld de eb .
ch a wl - ge se ld le ch re ve al of eb on , nd te ew es of he eb to rt ge - ed ce nd em ng .
ur ch is to op a le on on em at es wo ts .
he st is an gy at es he es ( e . g . , ny , on , ee , ct ) nd ns ( e . g . , ed . by , ed . by ) of st en ng he ge se .
he nd is a et of ng ta ng of ed ns of xt at nt es of se es nd ns .
en se ts , he em ns to ct on om er es nd ks on he eb .
is er es ur al ch , al ne ng ms or is sk , nd ng al ts th a pe em at as ed a ge se ng ty le , es , nd ch ts .
is ch as en ed in rt by he pa kb am er ch ct 23 - 23 - 23 - 23
he ws nd ns ed in is nt re se of he rs nd ld ot be ed as ng he al es , er ed or ed , of pa or he
ic ty ed 23
ds : on on , ne ng , ld de eb , ge
es , eb er , xt on , al ng .
he ty 23
ew of he kb em 23
em on 23
al ed 23
ng to ze ss es 23
al xt on 23
ch 23
al on 23
st - er xt on 23
ch 23
al on 23
ng rs 23
ch
al on 23
ng ti - ge ts 23
ch 23
al on ; 23
on ry 23
ng to ze on es 23
em on 23
ng ds 23
al on 23
ng to ct xt ds 23
ch 23
al on
ed rk 23
nt on 23
on on 23
ng ic on om xt 23
ng ge es om he eb 23
eb ts 23
ns nd re rk 23
a ng re ly ed es om ve es 23
he ty
he se of he ld de eb as de it le or ur on to ve er 23 , 23 , 23 eb es or ur al al .
he eb as dy me ne of he st nd st se es of on on he et , nd ny ct it to ow to he ld ' s ry ge ce er he xt de .
he ch ed re is ed by a le on : gh ur rk - on an ly ve er 23 , 23 , 23 eb es , it ly ds ne of se eb es .
he al of ur kb ch ct is to ly te a er - le ge se se nt rs at of he ld de eb .
ch a " ld de ge se " ld st of er le as - ns in ic , ic rm ( e . g . , ed . by ( en , iv ) , y= . 23 ) .
we ct ch a ld de ge se ld ve ny es .
at a um , it ld ow ch re ve on al by ng es ch as " nd ll es in 23 es of gh at er ng es on va ng . " ng a ep er , it ld le ew es of he eb to rt ge - ed ce nd em ng .
or le , it ld de he wl - ge se ed by a re el nt at ht le ts ch as " ke me el nd ht ts or he ng cm ce . " ce at on ut he cm ce , by ls , nd ts is dy le in an - le rm , ad ss le xt es on he eb .
a ge se at es is in - on er - le ld rt a ty of nt ge - ed
ow ht we ct nd in ch a ld de ge se ? he is ed in is er is at ne an op ch a ge se by ( 23 ) ng ne ng to te on on ds or ch of he ed es of wl - ge , en ( 23 ) ng se ed on on ds to ct ic , ic ts ly om eb xt .
ch on in he ge se an re ry th it a on , in ms of he eb es nd on on od , at de ts al rt .
as he eb es er me , he nt ty of ge se ts an be ed by ng ir ed al
is er es he ve is by ng nd ng al ng go - ms nt to is on on sk , nd by ng he pe we - kb em ch as ly lt up a ge se ng al nd ns ut er ce ts ng se ed on rs .
we in by ly ng he es of he kb em in he xt on .
he nt on rs in il he al ns ng ur ch .
he ng ns nt ur al ed , al ng go - ms nd al ts or he us on on ks , ed rk ,
( " ls of cs me ge
rs . of : im , om
ch : er ct
! es . ht . by : nd , of cs , . . .
ls of cs me ge
im ' s me ge
i ch al es : - ls of cs .
my ch es
nt eb ts
re 23 : he ts nd ts of he eb kb em .
he op rt of he re ws an gy at es he es nd ns of st .
he om rt ws wo eb es ed as ng es of he es se nd ty .
er , se wo es so te a ng le or he ns rs . of nd es . ht . by .
en he gy nd a et of ng ta , kb ns to et al eb es nd ks to dd ew es to he ge se , ch as se wn in he le of he re .
ew of he kb em
he kb em is st ed to ct on of he ed es , nd is en ed to se ew eb es in er to ly te a ge se th ew ns .
en ng is em , he er st de wo ts :
a on of he es nd ns of st .
is is he gy at es he ry or he et ge se .
an le of ch an gy is ed in he op lf of re 23
is ar gy es a hy of es ng on , nt , ch . ct , se , tc .
it so es ns en se es ch as rs . of ( ch es an ce of a nt to he es of ty ho re he rs of he en nt ) .
is gy es he al on of he ge se .
ng es at be es of he gy es nd ns .
or le , he wo eb es wn at he om of re 23 nt es of se nd ty es .
re , is ir of es ts an ce of he on es . ht . by ( i . e . , he es . ht . by im es en -
en ch an gy nd a et of ng es , he kb em ns al es or ng ew es of se es nd ns om he eb .
in he nt pe , is is ed by ng to fy ry eb es nd nk hs ng to he es nd ns ed by he gy .
en ng he eb , he kb em ts om a en ut rl nd es es ng a th - st ch to ow ks .
ch ed ge is ed , ng ed ss ns , to ee if it ts a er of ne of he gy es .
if a ge is a ss er , an ty ng at ge is ed to he ge se , nd he gy ns or at ge re ed ed on ed es nd he wn al re of he eb .
if a ge is ot a ss er , he ch is ed , nd ks om is ge re ot ed .
in ne ch ng nt he em as en a ng et of ly 23 , 23 eb es nd 23 , 23 eb - ge rs en om he er ce nt eb es at ur es ( ll , ty of as at in , ty of on , nd ty of in ) .
se ng es re nd ed ng to he gy wn in re 23
he em as en ed to re he eb te of a th er ce nt ( at ie on ty ) , nd to dd ew ge se es ed on on ed om is ew eb te .
wo ew es ed by he em to ts ge se , as a lt of ng is ew ty eb te , re wn in re 23
he op ce es a ew ty ed to he ge se , as a lt of ng a eb ge at he em ed to is ry .
as a lt , he em ed he ew ty ce in he ge se , nd ed al ns ng is ce .
or le , it ed ( or - ly ) he me of is ty er , a se ht by he ty er , nd ee
( me " id an " )
( rs . of . ct ( et - l* id - n* ph - n*
re 23 : wo of he es ly ed om he mu er ce nt eb te er ng on ur er ty er ce es .
se es re ed as ew es of ty nd ct to he ge se wn in re 23
nt ty on ch . ct se nt ll
le 23 : ss ce on cy en ng mu er ce nt eb te , er ng on er ce nt at ur er es .
es of he ts . of on or is ty er : al - h* , mu - cs - le - re - ms - me - e* , nd le - t* .
se ee ts re es es of he ch . ct ss , ed om er eb es .
he on of ne of se , he le - 23 t* , is wn at he om of he
ow te is he em in ng ch on ? in is nt , he em ed 23 eb es at he ew ie on te , nd as a lt ed 23 ew ss es to ts ge se .
he on of ly ed es is ed in le 23
or le , is le es at he em ed 23 ew ge se es of he ss se .
of se 23 ew es , 23 in ct ed es nd he er 23 id ot .
ts cy in ng on es is ed in a ar on in le 23
te at ce we on ' t ve a ng or ll he es nd ns at ie on , we ve no ay of ng ge ts or se ks .
re 23 ws he on ed by he em as it es .
te is ay ws he eb ge at is ly ng ed ( op ht ) , nd he on ed by he em om is eb ge ( le ft ) .
he ce so ns a ol el
a* lf kt 3i ia -
it ew go ks ns ry ow
t - ^ a t w ( en i nt ; md
! i ei
at ' s ew ? ) at ' s ol ? - ns et ch lp n>
nd : ie ek su ? p ( it
kb ? f# |> / j ' ww . e# . iu , fu / 3o
im l .
um te or of er ce
nt of er ce ie on ty gh pa 23 - 23
ce : an 23 el : ( 23 ) 23 - 23
me te cn : <g , eb , c
f^ *s ty th rs - 23
my an es ch ts re ne ng ry , on ms , nd on - ne ms .
i so am ng an .
a ph - or ps - ke ns .
i as ly am ee co - ir or lt ' 23 ( he th al ce on al l ng ry ) , nd on he ro am c ee or da ' 23 ( he th al cm - am um on te hy ig u . ty
ty as 23 es nd : 23 et ' n* 23
re 23 : he eb ce to he eb kb em .
he er ft ne es as a ol el .
he le ft ne es he nt ty of he eb kb em , nd he er ft es es he on .
he er ht ne ws he ge ly ng ed , nd he er ht ne es a sm or ng he ed ge se .
rs . of rs . of .
ct nt . of ll
le 23 : on ce on cy en ng mu er ce nt eb te , er ng on er ce nt at ur er es .
at ws he er to ct th he em ( op ft ) , nd to se he ng ge se ( om ht ) .
em on
as ed in he us on , he kb em es al rt or ur is at a em an be ed to ly te a ge se by ng eb xt .
er ns be in il he ng ms ed by is kb em .
in is on , we er he se em on nd he al ns at ie ur nt ch .
to ze , we re ed in he ng al em :
- an gy at es he es ( e . g . , on ) nd ns ( e . g . , or . of )
- ng es om he eb at be es of se es nd la -
- al es le of ng al es of se es nd
ns by ng he st of he eb .
te at we do ot ly ct ew es or ll of he es nd ns in he gy .
or le , ur gy ay ve a ss ry ng th es or ll of he es in he ld .
in is se , ce we dy ow ll es , we do ot ed to rn es to ze ew es .
to ue he em of ng to ct es om he eb , we st ke me ns ut he es of ge to be ed om he eb , nd he ay in ch is ge is ed in xt on he eb .
se on re :
ns ut ow ss es re ed on he eb .
we me at ch ce of an gy ss is ed by ne or re us ts of xt on he eb .
by " us nt of xt " we an er a le eb ge , or a us ng of xt in a eb ge , or a on of al eb es ed by ks .
or le , an ce of a on ht be ed by a le ge ( he on ' s me ge ) , or by a ce to he on in a ng of xt in an ry eb ge , or by a on of ed eb es at ly be he on .
ns ut ow on es re ed on he eb .
er an ar - ry ce r ( a , b ) of a on r .
we me at ch ce of a on is ed on he eb in ne of ee ys .
st , he ce r ( a , b ) ay be ed by a nt of xt at ts he nt ng a to he nt ng b .
or le , he om of re 23 ws wo ks at ct he nt ng im th he nt ng en - ls . of . cs .
se ks nt he on or . of ( ls . of . cs , im ) .
nd , he ce r ( a , b ) ay ly be ed by a us nt of xt ng a at ns he nt at ts b .
or am - le , he on ce ch . of ( im , an . er . on ) is ed in re 23 by he ct at im ' s me ge ns he se " an er in - on " in a ar xt .
ly , he ce r ( a , b ) ay be ed by he ct at he xt nt or a es me ed el or ss to b .
or le , we ht ct he ce ch . of ( im , al . ce ) by ng im ' s ge ng a al el of he ds ly nd in es ng ai ch .
in on to se ns ut he ng en eb xt nd he gy , we ke al ng ns in ur al ch ed in is er .
we an to ax he ng ns in he re as ur ch es .
we me in is er at ch ss ce is ed by a le eb ge ( e . g . , a on is ed by ir me ge ) .
if an ce ns to be ed by le es ( e . g . , if a on is ed by ir me ge us a on of ng es ng ir ns , es , tc . ) , ur nt em is ed to fy ly he ry me ge as he on of he on , nd to re he ng ed es .
ly , if an ce ns to be ed by a xt nt , ur em es ot ly te a ge se ce or is .
it es , er , ct in on es om ch xt ts ( e . g . , he me of he on , as ed in re 23 ) .
we me at ch ss ce is ed by a le us nt of xt .
in er ds , if he em rs wo on - us eb es at nt es of he me ss , it es wo ct es of is ss in ts ge se .
le is on ll en be ed ( e . g . , wo ct al me es ly nt wo ct le ) , re re ly
ns ( e . g . , re re ny nt eb es ng is ) .
ng is " le is em " ll re ds at ze es en ly ed es .
we me at ll ns re wo - ce s; at is , ' ch on as ly wo ts .
we ve at it ll be ly sy to ax is on .
en is em on nd ur nt et of ns , we ew he ng as he ee ry ng ks at re ed in ng ge - se es om he eb :
ng ss es by ng es of xt .
on 23 ks at is em , ng th al nd al ng es .
it so es ow to ax ur on ut ss es ng ed by le eb
ng on es by ng ns of ks .
on 23 ti -
es a al ng on to is em .
ng ss nd on es by ng ll ds of xt om eb
on 23 ks at is sk nd so es a al ng ch .
al ed
ll ts ed in is er re ed on he gy or er ce ts wn in re 23
is gy es he es nt , ty , ff , nt , ch . ct , nd se .
ur eb ge on ts so se he ss er as he el or eb es at ll to ne of se gy es .
ch gy ss as an ed et of ts , or ns , at st ng es of is ss nd er ss es in he gy .
or le , he se ss as a ot ed rs . of at es es to le .
we ed wo ta 23 or he ts ed re .
he st is a et of es nd ks wn om ur cs ts : ty of as at in , ll ty , ty of on , nd ty of in .
he nd is a et of es om us er er ce ts .
he ur - nt et es 23 , 23 es nd 23 , 23 ks ng em .
he nd et es 23 , 23 al es .
he es or st of he es in ur ta et re ed ng " ex " es or ur es of st ( e . g . , a ge at as ks to ll of he ts in a nt ) , so ng is ta as rd .
er ng is al et of es , we en ed ry ge at as th ( i ) ed to by a nk
23 se ta ts re ly le at tp : / / ww .
du / af s / cs .
du / ct / eo - 23 /
in he al et , nd ( ii ) om he me ty as he ge ng to it .
st of he es ed in he nd ep re ed as er .
in on to ng es , we so nd - ed on es .
ch of se on es ts of a ir of es ng to he ss es ed in he on .
or le , an ce of he rs . of on ts of a se me ge nd a on me ge .
ur ta et of on es es 23 rs . of es , 23 rs . of . ct es , nd 23 rs . of . nt es .
se es re ll om he ur - nt et .
ly , we so ed he me of he er of es in he on ss .
is as ne ly by ng ny xt nt in he on ' s me ge at ed he me as it ed in he nk ng to he ge om he ex ge .
he ng cs re ve , ng on er ll .
ly , we ve at , gh me me es re ed , re re no se es .
om 23 on es , is re ed 23 ct me es .
se es re ll om he ur - nt et as ll .
or ll of he nt ts in is er , we se a ur - ld ss - on gy to te ur ms .
we ct ur ns in ch we in rs ng ta om ee of he es in ur ta et ( us he nd et of es re le ) , nd st he rs ng ta om he ng ty .
on ch on we ld ut a nt ty or he st et .
ng to ze ss es
he st sk or ur em is to fy ew es of gy es om he xt es on he eb .
in is on we ss he se in ch ss es re re - ed by eb s; or le , a en ce of he nt ss is ed by he nt ' s me ge .
in he st rt of is on we ss a al ag - of - ds ch to si - ng eb es .
we se is od ng th ee nt ns of es .
in he nd rt of is on we ss ng st - er es to fy eb es .
is ch is ng in at st - er es an be ge es ng a ch de - on of he al ph re nd he ge .
ly , we te he ss of ng he ns de by ll ur of se rs .
al xt on
in is on we er ng eb es ng al ds .
ur ch is ar to a ng dy of rk in xt on at es ng a so - ed ag of ds or am on .
er , we ly ur od in el ys at ke ge of he cy of xt .
ly , we in ee nt rs
ch se nt ns or ge on :
ll - xt : he ds at ur re in he ge ,
le / ng : he ds at ur in he le nd ml gs of he ge ,
nk : he ds at ur in ks ( i . e . , he ds in he or xt ) at
nt to he ge .
ur ch es ng a ic el of ch ss ng ed ng ta , nd en ng ly en es by ng he ss at is st le en he ce of ds ng he ew ge .
he od at we se or ng eb es is ve es , th or ns ed on ck - er ce .
en a nt d to fy , we te a re or ch ss c as ws :
re n is he er of ds in d , t is he ze of he ry , nd w ( is he th rd in he ry .
pr ( \c ) us ts he ty of ng to , - en a nt om ss c , nd pr ( \d ) ts he cy of ce of w ( in nt d .
he ss ed by he od or a en nt is ly he ss th he st re .
is od es ly he me ns as ve es , ut es on es at re ss me .
ow we in ve s; in ix 23 we il ur ns to it .
he ic ls we se re he ce in ch he ds ur .
se ls re en ed am or ag - of - ds ls se ey re ed on cs ut le ds in on .
ce he am el ly es at he ce of ch rd in a nt is ly nt of ll er ds in he he nt en ts ss , is ch , en ed th es le is en ed ve es .
he ce as - on is ly se , nd it es ly ct ss - ip es .
er , it is en he se at en en he on es ot ld nd ve es es te ty es , it ll is le to fy st es th gh
re re wo on es to ve es xt on .
ne , he ti - te li el , is a an rk th no es en ds nd ry rd s; he nt is ed to be he " nt " nd he ds re es
at nt .
he er ch , he al el , is a am ge el th er rd s; he ds re ed to " ts " nd he nt is ed of a on of se ts .
we se he nd ch , ce it as en nd to ut - rm he st on al ta ts ( 23 ) .
we te ve es or xt on as ws .
en a et of es c = ( ci , . . . c| ) nd a nt ng of n ds , ( wi , 23 , . . . wn ) , we fy he nt as a er of he ss , c , at is st le , en he ds in he nt :
c = pr ( ti , . . . , t ( ;n )
we rm pr ( ii , . . . , wn ) to a le on by ly ng es le to he al ds in pr ( wi , . . . , wn ) ( eq .
23 ) nd ng at ds re de - nt of ch er ( eq .
we so op he or ( eq .
23 ) , ce is rm is a nt ss ll es .
pr ( 23 , . . . , wn ) = re ) ) . ) . - ; r ~ ( 23 )
" pr ( iu , - |c ) , . , - pr ( c ) il p / \ ( 23 )
oc pr ( c ) lc ) ( 23 )
he ns at rm is al on of ve es to he rm
we se ( wn in on 23 ) re ed in ix 23
ng rd es
a ey ep in ng ve es is ng he rd es , pr ( to , - |c ) .
to ke ur ty es re st th ct to ly ed ds , we se a ng od to fy he es at ld ve en ed by le nt ng .
ne nt ct of ng is at it ds ng ty es of ro to ds at do ot ur in he ng ta or a ar ss .
ce ve es es ng a ct of rd es , a le ro or a ss ld nt at ss om ng he um en if re re ny er ds at ly te at ss .
er an ng th he on ce es ( i . e . , ng ne to ll he rd ts or a ss ) , we se en - ll ng ( 23 ) , ch we ve nd to rm er on al ta ts .
en - ll ts pr ( to , - |c )
re at ( iw , - , c ) is he nt of he er of es rd wi rs in he ng ta or
ss c , tc is he al er of ue ds in ss c , nd t is he al er of ue ds ss ll es .
er nt on ue is ng on he ry ze to be ed or he em in .
we ve nd ly at we et ly re te ns en ng a ed ry ze .
us we it ur ry to 23 ds in ll of ur ts .
he ry is ed by ng ds ng to ir ge al on th ct to he ss ls .
we te w ( or a om le ng er rd to , - is nt or nt in a nt , nd te v ( ( wu wi ) or he es it es on .
we te c or a om le ng es of ll he ss ls , c <e c .
en , ge al on is
i ( wi ) = h ( c ) - h ( wi ) ( 23 ) = - pr ( c ) og ( pr ( c ) ) ( 23 )
- - e pr ( 23 ) ^k ) og ( pr ( ck ) ) ( 23 )
e eg ^f . ) ( io )
is re on od as en nd to rm st ng al at
( 23 ) , nd as en ed in ny xt on es ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
al on
we te ur od ng he ss - on gy ed in on 23
on ch on of he ss - on un , we in a er or ch of he ge re - ns ed at he ng of is on : ll - xt , le / ng , nd nk .
le 23 ws he ng on ix ( ed er he ur st ts ) or he ll - xt rs .
ch mn of he ix ts ne ss nd ws ow he es of is ss re ed .
ch ow ts he es at re ed to ng to a en ss , nd ws he ue es of se es .
is le es al ng ts .
st , te at or st es , ur rs re te te .
or le , 3% of he se nd 3% of he ty es re ly ed .
he le on to is nd is he er s; ly 3% of he es ng to is ss re ly ed .
we ss is lt in re il ow .
a nd st - ng lt is at ny of he ng es de by he rs ve ng nt es of on .
or le , gh ly 3% of he ff es re ly ed to he ff ry , 3% of em re ly ed to he re al ss of on .
as is lt ts , ot ll es re ly l; en en we il to ly fy an ce to ne of he af es in ur gy , we
23 - > o <u . c u k .
23 23 23 23 23 23
v - 23 o
le 23 : a on ix ng ll - xt on ts ed ss ll of he ur - ty st ns .
he ll ge nd cy re so wn .
an ll ke ny ct es ut he ce if we ly gn it to a re
he ow el of on cy or he er ss is ly ed by he re of is ss .
ll om on 23 at he es of is ss re ed by ng es at re ne nk ay om he es in he er ix es .
or is on , ny of he es of he er ss ve nt , nd ce rd cs , ry ar to es in ne of he " re " es .
or le , as he me ge or a se ll ng to he se ss , " ry " es or he se , ch as a ge ng ng ts , ll ng to he er ss .
gh he nt of ny of he es in he er ss ht st at ey ly ng in ne of he re es , ur on or ot ng em in se es is he ng .
en ur em is ng he eb nd ng ew es to he ge se , we nt to re at we do ot dd le es at nd to he me al - ld ct .
or le , we ld ot dd wo ew es to he ge se en we er a se me ge nd ts ry ge ng he ng ts .
se of is nt , we ve ed ur ge on sk as ne of ly ng he " ry " es or he es of st .
as le 23 es , is is a ry lt sk , ut as we ll ow ly , by ng al es of ce or ch ge , it is ne we an rm th gh cy .
ne ay to in ht to he ed rs is to sk ch ds te st ly to he ty ec ( d ) or ch ss .
to re is , we ed ne of ur
le 23 : he op en st ly ed ds .
or ch ss , he le ws he en ds at re st ly ed by ne of ur ed ll - xt ls .
he ts wn nt he ed og - ds io of he ds en he ss .
he ol d is ed to nt an ry it .
or le , he op rd wn or he ty ss , dd , ts ny ur - it en ( ch as at ng in a ne er ) .
ng ts to te
or ch rd wi nd ss c .
re 23 ws he en ds or ch ss at ve he st ue of is ed og - ds io .
as he le es , st of he ly ed ds re ly al or ir ss .
he ns to is al - on re ly om he ff ss , or ch re is le ng ta , nd he er ss , ch ts an ly se et of es .
er ng lt ed by is le is at ny ds ch re en - ly ed in op 23 re ly ed by ur ls .
or le , he ds my , me , nd am re al op - st ds ut ey re ng he op en ds or he nt ss .
gh se re on ds , ey re ly ve of he nt ss ce st - on ns nd rb ns do ot ar ly on es in he er es .
is lt ts at it is us to ct a ry in a in ic ay ( as we id ng al on ) , ad of ng a al se
ne ch to ng on cy is to it he ns de by he rs to st se ns in ch ey re st nt .
is is ly ed th ur od se he ty ec ( d ) ed en ng a ge an be en as a re of he ce in he on .
by ng a um ld on is ce , we an ct a nt at es me ge in er to in ed cy .
en ur al of ly ng ge se on om he eb , it is le to in th a gh - cy er , en if we ed to it ge to ly 3% of he 23 , 23 , 23 es le on he eb .
he ct of ng ff ge or cy ng ur ll - xt rs is wn in re 23
he al is on is ot ts ge : he ge of es or a en ss at re ly ed as ng to he ss .
he al is ts cy : he ge of es ed to a en ss at re ly rs of at ss .
to nd se ts , er , or le , he ss nt .
as he ts in le 23 ow , en he rs ct at a ge gs to he nt ss ey re ct 3% of he me .
he st nt on he nt ve in he le 23 ds to is nt .
as we se he ce ld or is ss , er , he cy of ur ns es .
or le , at a ge of 3% , cy es a el of 3% .
so ar , we ve ed he ts ly or he ll - xt rs .
es 23 nd 23 ow he cy / ge es or he nk nd le / ng rs , ly .
as re , se es ow he te ts or ll ur st ts in ur ss - on
23 a op st is a et of ds at re ed om ts re ey re ed by an on - al or xt - on em .
re re rd op ts ch de ds ly ht to ey le on ut he nt ic .
ch .
ct *
re 23 : cy / ge ff or ll - xt rs .
ns in ch ss re ed ng to ir ce .
ch ve ws he or of he er as a ld on is ce is ed .
he z - is ts he ge of es or a en ss at re ly ed ng to he ss .
he j / - is ts he ge of es ed to a en ss at ly rs of at ss .
3% 3% 3%
re 23 : cy / ge ff or nk rs .
>> i 23
yo 23 23 23 23
nt - +
3% : l k .
\ " el . .
*
\ \ " b ,
b - ^ - - b - q .
' * o n n " fi , .
23 ^ v - v - t^ * x . . .
\ ia
" x - x \
x \ \
; < 23 23 23 23 23
re 23 : cy / ge ff or le / ng rs .
as we ed er , ne of he ts at es ng in xt om ng in at - xt ns is at xt es le , at nt es of ce or he ng of a en ce of xt .
as we ed , he ts in es 23 nd 23 te at se le es of ce an be ly ed to ke er ns .
er , or le , he cy of he nt ns de by he nk rs .
as he ll - xt rs re ly 3% te at ll ge , he hy - nk rs re 3% te .
er , he nt cy / ge ve or he nk rs is ly or to he ve or he ll - xt rs .
he on or is ce in cy is at gh ur ta et es ew nt es om ch to ze , it es ny ks at nt to nt es .
us he nk rs ve ly ge es of ta om ch to rn he rd cs of ks at nt to nt es , nd ly ey ve a ly ge er of ks on ch to se ir on en ng a ge er
he le / ng rs so te es in ch ng a xt - ed re - on or ge on an lt in er ve cy an ly ng a at - xt on .
he le / ng rs ' ve or th he ty nd re - ch . ct es , or le , re er an he ng es or he ll - xt rs at ge ls of 3% nd ss .
ne on or is lt is at es nd gs de ng of a ry of a en ge nd us nd to in ds at re ly ve of he ge ' s ss .
st - er xt on
as ed ly , he xt re of he eb an be ht of as a ph in ch eb es re he es of he ph nd ks re he es .
he ds or ng eb es at we ed in he us ns er he ds in er a le de of he ph or in a et of es ng on he me de .
er , se ds do ot ow us to rn ls at ke to nt ch es as he rn of ty nd a en ge , or he ds ng in ng es .
it ht be le to rn , or le , a le of he rm " a ge is a se me ge if it ns he ds ok nd ta nd is ed to a ge at ns he rd nt . " es of is pe , at re le to nt al cs of a ph , re a st - er on .
in is on , we er he sk of ng to fy es ng a er at is le to ce st - er es .
he ng hm at we se in is on is an ' s il hm ( 23 , 23 ) .
il is a dy ng hm or ng on - ee rn 23
il es ch rn se by ng th an ty il nd ng a ll - ng ch to dd ls to he il il he se rs ly ( ly ) ve es .
he on on ed or he ll - ng ch is an on - ic re .
he on we de to he ng hm ts of he ng ck -
rc ? ( ge ) : is et of ns te ch ds ur in ch es .
ch an on es he es in ch he rd rd rs .
he ry or is et es 23 ds at ve at st 23 es ut at do ot ur in re an 3% of he ng - et es .
se wo ts re ed th he on of ng a ry of le ze at ld ly de he ds th he st on er .
we ad en 23 nd 23 of se es in ch of he ss - on ns .
to ( ge , ge ) : is on ts he ks at ct he es in he ta et .
we ly il to rn a te et of es or ix of he en es ed in he us 23
we do ot rn a on of he er ss , ut ad at it as a lt ss .
we se he ms se nd le ly
ng rs to he ss of ly ng ds to ir ot rm .
or le he ds
te , rs nd ng ld be ed to he ot ut .
re is a on of il ly ed or ti - ss ms ch as rs .
we nd , er ,
at he ve as of is on is ot ll ed to ur ar sk .
en ng st es , we te an ed re of ce ng th ch on .
we te se ce es or wo ns .
st , we se em to ve ng ns om ur ix ly ed le ts .
nd , we re ed in ng ow he cy of ur ed le ts es as we st
we se he ng re to te he ce of ch of ur ns .
st , we te he or te of ch of ur ed es by ng an m - te ( 23 ) ( th m = 23 ) of he le ' s or er he ng es .
we en se se es to rt he es in er of ng cy . 23 to te he ns of ur ix ly ed rs , we se he ng re :
if no er ad a le at ed he en ge , en we ct er th
if ly ne er ad a ng le , en we ct he ed ss th on - ce ng to he le ' s re .
he er ss is ed th ce of ne us is re .
if re an ne er as a ng le or he en le , en we ct ch ss th ce al to he re of ts st ng le ed by he al er of rs at ad ng es .
he er ss is ed th a ce ue at ld ke he al ce um to ne .
al on
or he ts ed re , we ed se 23 of il th he lt gs .
as th he ts in on 23 , we se a ur - ld ss - on gy .
he ng cy / ge ot or ch ss is wn in re 23
ng se ts to se in re 23 , ne an ee at gh he st - er es ly de er ge an he al rs , ey de or cy or al es .
re 23 ws ee of he 23 ed by il in ts us ss - on ns .
he ed le or se wn re es he er of a st - er on .
is le es a ge as he me ge or a se if it es ee ps of ts :
he ge as he rd or , ut sn ' t ve he rd od .
is ge es ot ct he ns de by a ed et of es .
it ts ly ur
ce ed th ch on .
ut he er , we se a og - ke ax or ed es .
he ol : - ts he on or , th he ad of he le on he ft de of he or nd he dy on he ht de .
ts , ch as he es of ur gy es nd ns , rt th se rs .
es rt th se rs .
re 23 : cy / ge ff or il ge rs .
he ge ns a nk to a ge ch es ot in ny ks to
is ed ge ns he rd gn .
is ul an be ed as ws :
ct at a ge is a se me ge if it as he rd or nd is ed to a af ge ch ks ut ts .
he le le ed or he nt ss es om he ss - on un ng es om he ty of on ut of he ng et .
ce at is le rs to a ge ( nd to he le b ) at as wo on st es on it ( ul nd me , he ed on of es ) .
is le ( nd ar es ed th he er ee ng ts ) es at il as ed to it " nt ry " es in er to fy nt me es .
or le , en on is he st et , ll of he ct ns of he le nd b to a ge ed " te ts at uw &e " .
he ty le ll ot fy a ge as ty ss re is a ge ng he ed nt of ty at ts to he en ge .
ll ee of se es ow ow eb - ge on is nt om ry xt on in at ng es ay de ng ce ut he ss of a en ge .
ng ds ch an se is on ly ld rm er an rd es in is in .
nt ( a ) : - ot ( as . fa ( a ) ) , ot ( rc ( a ) ) , to ( b , a ) , _j ' me ( b ) , as . ul ( b ) , ot ( 23 ( b ) ) .
ng et : 23 os , 23 g; st et : 23 os , 23 eg
ty ( a ) : - ro / or ( a ) , _p / ? ( a ) , to ( b , a ) , s_ / cw ( b ) .
ng et : 23 os , 23 g; st et : 23 os , 23 eg
se ( a ) : - or ( a ) , ot ( <i ( a ) ) , to ( a , b ) , ot ( to ( b , _l ) ) , as - gn ( b ) .
ng et : 23 os , 23 g; st et : 23 os , 23 eg
re 23 : a ew of he es ed by il or ng es .
ng rs
he us ts ow at he st on or ge on ds on he ss .
is on ts at it ht be le to ne he ns de by ur ur rs .
in is on , we be nd te a le ch to
he od at we oy or ng he ns of ur rs es ge of he ct at ch er es a re of ce ng th ch on .
he od we se is a le ng me at es ce es as ie - rs .
at is , en he ns de by ur ur rs or a en eb ge , we ct he ss at as a ty of he es de by he al rs , if re is ne .
if no ss as a ty , en we ct he ss ed th he st ce
in er to re at he ce es ut by ur nt rs re le , we te ch er by ng a ng om ts ut es to he ty of a on ng ct .
we do is by ly ng he es ed by ch er or a en ss , nd en ng he ng - et cy of he es at ll to ch in .
al on
re 23 ws he cy / ge es or he ng rs .
by ng is re to he cy / ge es or he ll - xt rs wn in re 23 ne an ee at , in al , re te ns re ed by ng ce er an ll - xt en ng es .
at gh ls of ge , he ng rs re re te an he ll - xt rs or he se nd nt es .
di - ly , he ch . ct ns de by he ng er re ly re te an he ll - xt ns , gh he ge ed by he ng er is ot as od .
re 23 : cy / ge ff or ed rs th ry ze of 23 ds .
gh re 23 es at ve cy is ed in me es by om - ng le rs , he ts of is nt re at ng .
he cy / ge es or he ng rs re ot ly er an he re - ng es of he nt rs .
ly , we ld ke he cy / ge ve or ch ss to be as od or er an he st rt ve ng he
we ve at he ts wn in re 23 re ng se ur od or ng he ns of le rs is ly le .
ly , we ve at he od ls to ly ap on es to ed es , nd us he ng on en es ot " en " to he ht rs .
ly , we ve ed at he ng od ms ch er en ur al rs re ed to ry ll es .
re 23 ws he cy / ge es or ng en we se al rs ed th a ry ze of 23 ds .
in ng is re to ur ne ll - xt er ( re 23 ) , ne an ee at he es ed by he ll - ry ng od re ly or to he ll - xt er es .
er , he ll - ry ng rs ed is lt ng nt rs at re ot as te as ir 23 - rd ry ts .
in re rk , we an to in al ks to rm he ng on .
we ze at ch a ng od ll be er le to it he ed as of se ed by ur al rs .
3% 3% 3%
re 23 : cy / ge ff or ed rs th ry ze of 23 ds .
ng ti - ge ts
as ed in on 23 , ur al on is at ch ss ce in he ge se ds to me us nt of xt on he eb .
is ws , or le , at a ar nt ht be ed on he eb by a le eb ge , or by a er of ed eb es ed nd ir me ge .
in he ts ed us ar , we ve ly de a er on : at ch ce is ed by a le eb ge .
in ct , in ng ur ng ta , we ed a ty of ts ( nd es of er gy es ) at re ed by a al ed eb es er an a le ge .
in se es we nd ed he ry me ge as nt , nd ed ny ed es ed th he me nt as er .
to ve is ng on we st op ds or ng ts of ed es at nt a le ge se ce .
in is on we nt a et of nd - en cs at fy ps of ed es nd so fy he " ry " me ge in he up .
we ow re at on cy in he us ns is ly ed en se cs re ed to up es nd to ly gn he el er to on - ry es , to it he on we de le nd ng he ta .
er he eb es of a al ty er .
he as a in ge ( tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / ex . ml ) , a ge ng er ns ( tp : / / ww . my .
du / er / oe / bs . ml ) , nd a ge ng er ch ts ( tp : / / ww .
my . du / er / oe / rk / ch . ml ) .
ur ng on ut ty - eb re - ps es at we ld ze at se es nd to a le ty , fy he st ve ge or at ty , fy at ge as a ty , nd as - fy he st of he es as er .
we sh is by ng wo ks : ng ed es er , nd ng he st ve ge of a up .
us ( 23 ) es es in rl re nd ng , nd ts al cs or ng ge gs nd ng ve me ge .
we se a ar , ly ed , ch .
in an al io , ne ld ne ng to rn se cs om es .
in he ng nt we ve ad ed se es by nd .
he st us gs at an be ed om a rl re ed on ec - ry re es .
ey ry ts of a rl te a al ng of eb es to an ty .
or le , en he rl tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / ch . ml , we an ce he ce of an ty ng to he rl ix tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / , se he rd / er / in he te ry on ly es he ce of a on ty in he ry ce ed by oe .
er al te ix rs re / ty / , / le / , / me / , nd / ts / .
ee te ix rs ( in ix - le ng rn ) re / cs ? ? ? / , / ww / nd / ~ * / , he st ng a al or of a se , nd he st ng a pi - al or of he me of a on or on .
ur hm ps ls by ir st ry ix at es ne of se en ns .
in he nt at no rn es , he re ry ix is ed or he ng .
in ur le ve , he ee ls ld ch ve he ty ix as tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / , nd us ld be ed er .
ng se ng cs ts in ts of eb es at te a in - le gy ty .
om se ts , we fy he le ry ge at is st ve of at ty .
ly is ds to he " me ge " of he en - ty .
us , we ke ny ge at as he me rn " ex . ml " , " me . ml " , " ge . ml " , or " cs ? ? ? . ml " nd el it he ry ge .
ly , ny ge in ch he te rl is he ry ix , ( or le , he rl tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / ) or ne in ch he me es he ry ve it ( as in tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / oe . ml ) is so ed as a ry ge .
ll es at do ot ch ny of se ns in a up , re ed ly as er .
in he nt at no ge in a up es ny of se cs , he ge th he st ( on - er ) on ce is ed he ry ge .
in ur am - le , tp : / / ww . my . du / er / oe / ex . ml ld be ed as ty ( ng ur er as ct ) , nd he er es ld be ed as er ss of he
, p* 23 23 23
\ h ' 23 \ h ^
\ ~ +\ se -
^^ ~ *^ x . \ \ nt - + - - .
. b - b x\ * ty - q -
' et ' ' \ ^^ - ch . ct *
' ba ' 3^ nt - * ' " " ej - .
\ . b ^^ ff - *
. x " " ' " " x x\ \
v ' ' x \ x * \ \
i i i i
3% 3% 3%
re 23 : cy / ge ff or he ll - xt er er he on of rl cs .
al on
he ct of ng he rl cs th he al ll - xt ge er is ma - ed in re 23
ng se es to re 23 ne an ee he ng se in cy or ny en el of ge ss ll es .
so te me on in al ge .
is rs se me es at re ly ly ed ve en ed as ng " ry " es
on ry
is on ed on he sk of ng ss es by eb ge on .
we ed at , se xt es ch nt on , eb es an be ed ng al es of on : he ll xt of es , he xt in es nd gs , he xt ed th ks , xt in ng es , nd he le on ed in ls .
ur ts st at ne of se es ne is nt or ng es of gy es th gh cy .
in he ts ed in on 23 , we ed th ll - xt rs nd rl cs .
we so ed in is on at ne ng ne of ch is to ne he ns of le rs at se nt es of ce .
ng to ze on es
in he us on we ed he sk of ng to ct es of gy es om he eb .
ur ch to is sk ed at he ss es of st re ed by le eb es or by rs of eb es .
in is on , we is - ss he sk of ng to ze ns of st at st ng ed ss es .
he is ng ur ch is at ns ng ss es re en ed by nk hs in he eb .
us , he sk of ng to ze es of ch ns es ng es at ze he al hs of he on .
or le , an ce of he rs . of on ht be ed by a nk ly om he me ge of a se to he me ge of he or , as ed by he ng le :
of ( a , b ) : - se ( a ) , on ( b ) , to ( a , b ) .
re , he es a nd b nt eb es , he ls se ( b ) nd on ( a ) ep - nt he ed ns of he es , nd he al to ( a , b ) ts or he ce of a nk om ge a to ge b .
em on
se is sk es ng nk hs of wn nd le ze , we oy a ng od at es a st - er on or ts ed es .
if - ly , he hm we ve ed or is sk is ed on he il hm ( 23 , 23 ) ch we ed or ge on in on 23 .
we ss ur hm in re il
he em on we se or ur on ng ks ts of he ng
ss ( ge ) : or ch ss in he et of ge es ed in on 23 , he ss on ts he es at nt es of ss .
or es in he ng et , he es of se ns re ed ng he al es of he es .
or es in he st et , er , we se he ed ge es en by he rs ed in on 23
ce he kb em as ss ly to ed ge es , ur st et ns re ve of se he em es .
to ( nk , ge , ge ) : is on ts eb ks .
or a en nk , he st nt of he on es an er or he nk , he nd nt es he ge in ch he nk is ed , nd he rd nt es he ge to ch he nk ts .
r^ ( nk ) : is et of ns es he ds at re nd in he or ( i . e . , ed ) xt of ch nk .
he ry or is et of ns es ds at ur at st n es ( we et n = 23 in ur ts ) in he ks of he ng et .
te at as he as . rd ns ed in on 23 es eb es , he et ed re es ks .
ed ( nk ) : he es of is on re se ks in
ch ll of he ds in he or xt rt th a al er .
rd ( nk ) : he es of is on re se ks ch in a rd th th ic nd ic rs ( e . g . , i ch 23 ) .
rf ( nk ) : is et of ns es he ds at re nd in he " od " of ch nk .
he od of a nk es ds in a le ph , st em , le ry , le or ng in ch he nk is ed .
he ry or is et of ns es he op 23 st ly ng ds in ch ng et , pt or ds on a st .
we rn ns or he ng et ns om he ta et ed in on 23 : ct ( ge , ge ) , se ( ge , ge ) , nd rt - on ( ge , ge ) .
in on to he ve es or se ns , ur ng ts de ly 23 , 23 ve es .
we rm he et of ga - ve ng es or ch et on by ng ch ir of on - er es om he me ty at is ot a ve ce of he et on .
on - ly , or he nt . of . on on we nt he ve es th ch on - nt ir ch is ot a ve ce .
ng ds
as ed ve , he hm we se or ng on es is ar to il in at it es a dy ng ch to rn a et of rn es .
he wo ry es en ur od nd il re ld .
st , ke il ur od es ot ly se ll - ng en ng or he xt se to dd to a pt on .
nd , ur od es a nt on on or is ch ss .
we ss ch of se es in rn .
as ed in on 23 , il ts es ng a ll - ng ch gh a ce of te ls .
we ve nd at , or ur on : ng ks , ch a ll - ng gy is le to rn es or hs ng of re an ne nk .
he ch ss at ur od ys ad ts of wo es .
in he st se , he " th " rt of he se is ed , nd in he nd se , al ls re ed to he se ng a ll - ng ch .
ur hm or ng he th rt of a se is a nt of ds nd ey ' s al ng od ( 23 ) .
is od is ed to te he ic ss of ll - ng ch , ly at to rn od ns it is en ry
ut : ng et of ve nd ed ve es
or ch ed ve ce
nd a th ( up to ed th ) ng he nd ns
ct he st on th pe or ch se ch sn ' t et ed ze he th to an al se do ll - ng to ne he se if ll - ng ls to nd an le se , ck to ep 23
rn : ed se
re 23 : he re or ng a se in ur ic nt of al ng .
nd hs rn th
re 23 : ng a th in he nd ns .
on he ft is wn a ph of ts ed by a le ry on .
is ph an be ht of as ng eb es ed by ks .
se he ir ( 3t 23 ) is an ed ve ce .
ng ds by ng he hs nd he wo ts il an on is ed , nd en ng he th at ks he wo
to ke a ep in he ch ce ch es ot it ny te in .
he ic ea ng al ng is at a al em in an be ht of as a ed ph in ch he es re he in ' s ts nd he es nd to ns ch ld ng ts .
he al - ng hm es to nd a ll er of al hs in is ph at ze he es of he
re 23 es an ew of ur ng re or ng a le se .
is re is ed il a te on as en ed .
he st ep in he od is to nd he st th of a ed th ( en ne ts ) or ch ve ce ( of he et on ) at as ot en ed by a ly ed se .
is ss , ed in re 23 es ng a ph nd ch of he ts in he ce .
ch ph is ed by ng ll ts ch an be ed ng an ce of ne of he nd ns to ct to a nt at he er of he ph .
er ng ch a th or ch ed ve ce , he st on th
nd th or ch ve ce
rn st on th
pi i 23 i im
re 23 : ng he st on th or a et of ve es .
en he ph wn in re 23 , se at he ve es re ( pi , 23 ) , ( 23 , 23 ) , ( 23 , 23 ) , nd ( 23 , 23 ) .
ur hm ds he st th or ch ce nd en ns he st on th pe .
in is le he st ee es ve he me th pe , as he ce ( 23 , 23 ) as nt ne ( ce he on of he ks ) .
is th pe is ed to an al se .
pe is ed or he al se . 23 a th pe es he er of ks in he th nd ir ns , ut it es ot ce he ar es nd ks in ny ar ce .
he on of he st on th pe is ed in re 23
he al se is ed by ng ch nt in he th th a ue le .
is se is en er ed by a le ll - ng ch , ch as at ed in il .
if he ll - ng ch ls to nd an le se , en he re ks by ng he st ed th pe om he st of es nd en ng he xt st on pe .
we er as he ch or es by ng ch ne th he es of he ir of es in he on .
or le , en ng es or he et on em - ct ( a , b ) , we ze he il of ch se th he al ct ( a ) nd on ( b ) .
is as es ge of in ge ch is nt in he on - gy en to he kb em .
he nd ce en ur on - ng hm nd il is at as il es an on - ic re to de ts ll - ng ch , ur od , ke ki nd ko ' s ra - il ( 23 ) , es ra - es of a se ' s or to de ts on .
we ve nd at ng is on on es he hm to rn er , re al es an en il ' s on in re is ed .
al on
we te ur ch to ng on es ng he ur - ld ss - on gy ed in on 23
on ch on , we rn he et ns us -
if he od is ed om ng ve ns , he th or ch ve ce ds to be nd ly ce ce it ll ot ge as es re ed or he et on .
in is se , re ng ch ew se he hm ds ly to te ts ng he er of es ed by ch th pe .
of ( a , b ) : - se ( a ) , on ( b ) , to ( c , b , a ) .
st et : 23 os , 23 eg
of ( a , b ) : - on ( a ) , nt ( b ) , to ( c , d , a ) , to ( e , f , d ) , to ( g , b , f ) ,
st et : 23 os , 23 eg
ct ( a , b ) : - ct ( a ) , on ( b ) , to ( c , a , d ) , nk . to ( e , d , b ) ,
st et : 23 os , 23 eg
re 23 : a ew of he es ed or ng on es .
ng ng es om ee of he es in ur ta et , nd st ed es ng es om he th ty .
re 23 ws a ed se or ch of he rs . of , nt . of , nd em - rs .
ct ns .
on ge , re re 23 , 23 , nd 23 es ed or se et ts ly .
ng th ch le , we ow ow ll he le ed st - et es .
ch of se es as ed on re an ne of he ng ts , re he st - et cs nt es er he ur st ts .
he es ed or he rs . of on re he st ng he ee et ns .
he ed le wn or is on , or le , ks or es in ch a se ge as a nk ng to a on ge .
he le wn or he em - rs . of . ct on is re ng .
it es rs . of . ct es in ch he ct ' s me ge ts to an te ge ch ts to al me es .
he nk om he ct ge to he te ge st ve he rd " le " ar it .
is le rs es in ch he rs of a ch ct re ed on a ry " rs " ge ad of on he me ge of he ct .
he le wn or he nt . of on es a ee - nk th at ks a nt me ge to a al me ge .
he le es at he rd " te " ur ar he nd nk in he th .
in is se , he hm as ed to it he ct at ts en ve a ge at es as a te nt ry , nd at ny nt se me ge is ed to by is ry is a er of he nt .
ng th ch of ur ed on es , we te an ed ce in he on .
we an en ry he ge of ur ed le ts by ng a ld on se ce es .
we te he ce of ch on by ng re st of he ty in he on es : in he ge ns at re ed by ch ed se .
he ce re or a ed on ce is ly he ct of he ce es or he ge ns at or to he on on .
3% 3% 3% 3% 3%
re 23 : cy / ge ff or ed on es .
ng se ce es , re 23 ws he st - et cy / ge es or he ee et ns .
he cy ls of ll ee le ts re ly gh .
he rs . of . ct es re er an 3% te at ge ls of up to ut 3% .
he rs . of es re er 3% te at ge ls of 3% nd ve .
he nt . of es re at st 3% te at ge ls of up to 3% .
he ed ge ls of he ed es is ue ly to he ed ge of ur ge rs .
te at ll of he ed es de ls ch st ed ge ns .
as re 23 ws , he ge ed by ur ge rs is ow
% or st es .
ng to ct xt ds
in me es , he on we nt to ct ll ot be ed by eb es or ns ng es , ut by ll ts of xt ed in es .
or le , en a al me ge , we ht be ed in ng he on ' s me .
is pe of sk is ly ed on on .
is on es ur ch to ng es or ch on on ks .
we ve ed an on on ng hm ed rv or " ce es th on . " rv is a op - wn st - er er in he it of il
es th il ts al ch ic nd in ic , ut rs in he nd of ut it ts nd he ss of ts ch .
ut to rv is a et of es , ed to fy es of he ld we nt to ct , nd a et of es ed er ns .
ut is a et of on on es .
he on ss es ng ry le xt nt of te ze to ee er it es ny of he es .
as in il , " ng " a le in rv ns ll - ng gh a ce of le ls , at ch ep ng a al at es as ny ve es as le le ng a ge er of ly ed ve es .
en a le is ed od gh ( er it rs ly ve es , or er on is ed to be ve ) , ll ve es ng it re ed om he ng et , nd he ss is ed .
in ur ar in , a ve le is a ed xt ta ce of in ne of ur ng s; a ve le is ny ed en ce ng he me ze as me ve le .
ng ng we ss he ss of a al ng ll ch ve es .
he on ed by ur le er ts to ss he nt cs of ve es ly in ms of he al ns ed in em nd ng em .
at ch ep in le th , al nt es of te ay be
th ( ce , op , \l ) : he er an rt at he th of a ld , in ms
of er of ns , is ss an , er an , or al to me er .
me ( ce , ar , th , tr , ue ) : he er an it an te - ue st or me en in he ce ( e . g . , " he ld ns me en at is ed " ) .
ne nt to is te is a le .
ch ch le ds to a ct en .
us , if he er es a le dy in se in he nt le , it is ng he on of a le n; if he le is a ew ne , it es a ly nd en .
on ( ce , ar , om , op , n ) : he er an ay ng ut he on of a en nd by a me - te in he nt le .
he on is ed ve to he ng or nd of he ce .
os ( ce , rl , 23 , op , n ) : re at st wo es ve en ro - ed by me - es in he nt le , he er an fy ir ng nd ce om ch er .
ke il , rv an it al re in he in .
or rv , he ly le rm of al re is at ng ns to ch er .
he st us le is he or on , ch ts nt ns , ut re ng ds of re an be ed , ch as ic re .
in ng a me te , he er as he on of ng an ry th of al es to he st , so at it an ke ts of he rm , " me en ch is ed by a en ch is ed by a en at is ed . " us , gh me es ly er to ns
me ( nt ) : - me ( nt , b , ( ) , le , ue ) ,
th ( nt , < , 23 ) , me ( nt , b , ( en ) , rd , " mt " ) , me ( nt , a , ( ) , gp , ue ) , me ( nt , b , ( ) , rd , wn ) , me ( nt , b , ( ) , np , se )
re 23 : an on le or me of me ge er .
he sh ng of is le is , " a ce of wo ns , ne of ch ( a ) is in a ml le ld nd er an ur rs , he er of ch ( b ) is ed by he en mt , is wn om ng , nd is ot a ur - er en . " is is a gh - cy le , ng 23 ct ut of 23 ed on a on et .
de a ld , he er an it on le in xt ng he ld , as ll .
ly , he er ay ly se hs of th e; er ch a th is ed in a me te , he em es er hs le .
in is ay , he al se at is ty ls is pt er ol .
al on
as in he us ts , we ed he ve - ne - ty - ut gy , re - ly ng he es ng to ne of he ur es ut or ng nd ng on he ng ee .
he ta et or he nt nt ts of ll on es in he ta et .
he it of nt in is nt is an al ge .
if rv ' s st nt on on a ge ds ly to me ce of he ge er ' s me , or if it es no on or a ge ng no me , ts or is ed as ct .
se , it is ed as an or .
st - ed : ay , 23 - un - 23 23 : 23 : 23 mt
e> ce ll d< / e>
ce ll r>
re 23 : an le ml nt ch he ve le es .
in is se , he nt ce ll in he le is ed .
te at is is an us on ce it es he st me of
es 23 nd 23 ow a ed le nd ts on to a st se .
re 23 ws he cy - ge ve or rv on he me - on sk .
er he ia ed ve , it es 3% cy en ll es re ed .
a ll 3% of he es id ot in ir rs ' es , er , nd a ge rt of he er ' s or is se of us ns er se es .
if we er ly he es ng es , rv ' s ce is 3% .
re 23 : cy / ge ff ng rv or me on .
a on on a le at es ot in a me is ed as an or .
ed rk
re re al nt es of ch at re ed to he ks nd ds ed in is er .
in is on we ly ew he in as of ed rk .
nt on
ur rk is ed to ch in nt on , ch as at ed at nt xt al es ( ec ) ( 23 , 23 ) .
a de ty of ds ve en ed to he nt - on sk .
he df ch to on al is he is or he io on .
hm ch as me a rd ne hm or xt on ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ts " rd - or " ch es ng es th a or of ts , re ch ht es ow nt he ng rd is to he ss .
is on as en ed th ny nt ng ms , ng ry ed on - ng ( 23 ) , al ks ( 23 , 23 ) , ar nt is ( 23 ) , ic on ( 23 ) , ow - ff nd he ed nt ( eg ) hm ( 23 ) .
er ul ne of ch in xt on es om ic as in ty nd on ry .
es le as en he ng nt or a er of on ms ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) , nd he um on th le as en ed as he is of an hm as ll ( 23 ) .
er ne of ch as en to se ic ng ds or xt on .
us es ve ed ms ch as on es , ap - 23 , er nd de an be nd in ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
se es te at se ms re te ve th al - ed ds .
on on
he em at we re ng is ed to he al on on sk , ch as he ch ne in he ge ng ( uc ) ( 23 , 23 ) ty .
he rk in he uc ty as ed ms ch as ng ic ns of st ks om ws es , ng se es at te ds ch as he or , im , tc .
ne ey ce en is rk nd he ch ed re is at we re ed th ng on om xt , as he uc rk as ed on ry at xt .
in on , ur ch es ly on ne ng ds at an be ed to ct on , as st ly rk in he uc ty ed on nd - ed ds or ng on .
ly , he em of ng ne - ng ds to ce on - on es as ed re on .
ka ( 23 ) nd og ( 23 ) re ne ng ms ch rn on ns om ns of ed ts at ve en ed to fy ts of st .
se ns re en ed nd nu - ly ed to a er on on em .
og - ts ( 23 ) es he nt at ts be ed .
al ( 23 ) nd er ( 23 ) th te at ne ng es an be ed to rn es at rm on ly .
al is a ng hm ch es ed , ed es as ut nd es es or ng om el es .
er es as om al ng nd es at he ce on ic re - ng .
ng th ly ic on ns , th ms rn by ng ts nd ng ns .
is ts th he al - to - ic ch ed re .
al rs ve ed he em of xt on om he eb nd er et es .
ne le is la ( 23 ) , a em ed to rn on ns er he an - le ut of ne es .
la ts or ns ut he le ts of a se to rn ow ds re ed or ut by a ar em .
ar , ut ly ed or se th ml is ot ( 23 ) , a in ng nt .
se es re ed to he al em of " er on " ( 23 ) , ng on ns or ly ar es .
at he me me , as at ve en ul or al xt ve so en wn to rk ll or eb es .
ot ( 23 ) is a on of al in ch ed ce ts re ed by ts of ml .
ng ic on om xt
al er ch ps ve ed he ic on at an be to - ly ed nd ed om xt .
us ( 23 ) ts a et of cs at te xt ns to ic ps .
ly , he rs la - ps at an en be ed om nk re , le em on , nd ml ge re .
ge nd an ( 23 ) ve ed a em at ds he eb ge or a er en a ic on to it .
rt of he sk ed by is em is to nd he al me ge nd he ns ge of an or ng om he me ge of he on ' s on .
or is sk , ge nd an se ch - ol es ch re at ar to he on - on es we ed in on 23
ir es ok or in ds in ks to de ch es to ow in he ch .
as ir es re nd - ed or a ic sk , ur rk rs he em of ng ch es or ry ns .
li et al .
( 23 ) er he sk of ng es to al es ch as ad , ex nd ce .
ey ze he es ng es ch as le ze , er of ng nd ng ks , ge th of en es in he er - nk ph , tc .
as ur rk as ot ly ed ng al es of es , we ve ed at ur st - er rs or th ge nd on ca - on en ly rn ch al es .
ll , or le , at ur ed st - er es or ng nt es ly ed he ss of on ex es .
he es we se so er at om se of li et al . , ut on to th es is he al ce of or - ed xt ty nd nk
ng ge es om he eb
er ps ve ed on ng al ge - se on om he eb .
ke et al .
( 23 ) ve ed an on to ml ed oe by eb ge rs an de al on on ir es .
he ve so ed a em , se , at ts oe - ed on om eb es , nd ed it in a al ge se .
ir pe is at a ry of rd es ll me to on ge , ng ts ch as se to rn he on ed on he
he rt on er ( 23 ) es a al ge ce to a wl - ge se ed om he eb .
he ge se ns ta - on ut he nt of he eb , so at a ry to rt ns nt xt ts .
rt ds ts ge se by ng ly ly ed al ge ns on eb es .
he st nt nt nt in is ea is he nt of le up
ge ( ml ) ( 23 ) .
as ml is ed to be he ut of on in a ge , ml an be ed to be on ut he ts of he ge .
as th oe , eb ge rs an se ml to de al on ut ir es .
ce ml is a ld de eb um rd , er , it is re to be ly ed .
we ve at ds or ng he ts of eb es , ch as oe nd ml , an st th he sk of ng ge es om he eb , ut do ot te he ed or ur kb ch .
re re wo le ns of es ch as oe nd ml .
st , ey re of no se en eb ge rs do ot oy em .
nd , ey se a al gy .
at is , ce al eb ge rs re le or ng eb es , he ss of se es es on he nt to ch rs oy rd , ed es in a nt er .
er , al ns re ly in he ds of eb ge rs in is ch .
re ay be es re he al es ed to be a en eb ge re ot te or nt es or he ks to ch an ed ge se ll be ed .
in he kb ch , on he er nd , se al ns an be de by he rs of he em .
ne ng ay in he ml nd kb es an ly be ed , is by ng ml - ed es as re - ed ng ta .
we an to re is ue in re ch .
eb ts
he kb em ed re is an le of a eb nt at es he eb , ng on as it es .
ny er eb ts ve en ed er he st ew rs , ng al at ve me rm of ng .
er , he st ty of se ms se ng to ve ir ty to ve xt on , er at to ct er - le on .
or le , ms et al .
( 23 ) be a eb nt ed eb er at es as a ur de or rs ng he eb .
eb er ns to st te ks en rs ' ts , ed on he ks ed by us rs th ar ts .
as ch , it es ng to fy ks - a sk ar to he rk ed re on ng to ct al on .
a em th a ar al is ia ( 23 ) , ch ns he ts of a le er , in st to eb er ch ns om a ty of rs .
ll nd rt ( 23 ) rs a re ed ay of ng an eb er nd ia .
ng om a ly ed ex ge or a ar ic , he er an te ks ff is ge .
he em es he gs to rn a er ic ic le at an be ed to st ed ks on he ge .
ll nd rt an so se ch es ke os to ve es by ng he ic le to a ry .
ra ( 23 ) ks in an ff - ne ng .
a al el of ne er ' s st is ed by ng he er to te es .
ra es he el to se he eb ff - ne nd ns a et of es at ch he er ' s st .
ne ed em at is er in it to ur rk is es et a / . ' s ( 23 ) oy em , ch ts to te he me ge of a on , en on ch as he on ' s me , al on tc .
oy es ge of me ge nt ns to ch or al me es , nd in ct ns se ns om ce .
ns nd re rk
we an is er th a al nd a is .
he al is to ly te a ge ge se se nt rs at of he ld de .
he is is at ne an ly te ge es om he eb by st ng ne ng go - ms to te on on ds or ch of he ed es of ge , nd en ng se ds to ct ic , ic ts ly om
is er es rt or ur is by ng nd ng a ty of ne ng ms or on on , nd by ng he kb em at es he ed on rs to se eb es nd te a wl - ge se .
as wn in on 23 nd re , ur em as ed an cy of er an 3% at ge ls of ly 3% en ng se ed or - on rs to te ts ty ge se le ng ew eb es .
se ts de ng al rt or ur is , nd st ny es or
we ve ed a ty of ng ds or is sk , ng al ag - of - ds rs , st - er le rs , nd ti - gy ng ds .
we ve nd at al ag of ds ds , ed om nt on ds in on al , rk ll or ng al eb es .
er , se ds do ot ke ge of he al xt re le on he eb .
re , we ed st - er ng ms th or ng to fy es nd ng to ze ns ng al es .
se st - er ds re le of ng ns at ur ss le eb es , ir ks , nd ic ds at ar on se es nd ks .
ur ts te at se ds nd to ve er cy an he ag of ds rs , gh ey ly de er ge .
in on to se st - er ng ds at " ok rd " om he ge to er ts rs , we so ve ed ds at " ok rd " to er he ed re of xt nd ic xt ts in a le eb ge .
he rv hm ed in on 23 ns al es at ct ic es of xt ds in a eb ge , ch as a on ' s me .
we ve at he ox of ds we ve ed re ll be le to a de ge of em ns .
or ew ns , er , we ay ly nd ne he ds in ys ot ed in is er .
or le , in nt rk in a ew em in , we re ng ge rs to ze es of a ar on ( he ic or of a ny ) , as in he rk ed re we ed ge rs to ze ss es .
in rt , he st te od or ng es or a ar ss or on ll nd on ow se es nd to be ed in he eb .
ed on he al ts ed re , we re ic ut he re ts or ly ng nd ng a ic ge se by ng xt on he eb .
ey ns in , er .
or le , at el of cy
an be ed by ed es or ng on om he eb , nd at el of cy ll be ed of em ? or me ks he ed cy ll be te gh ( e . g . , or an nt em at ly ts ey on lf of ts er ) .
er , or ks ch as on al on he eb , he em ed ly be ly te to rm he nt rd - ed al ms at ve no al on of an gy .
gh er ch rd er ng ds is ed , we re at re ll be a dy am of ns re en an ly ct ge se ll rm nt rd al ds .
a nd pe of on or ur em is ow ch rt ll be ed to in he em or ch ew gy , or or ch on to he ng gy ? in he ts ed re , he em as ed ng ds of nd - ed eb es at re ed at a st of ly ne or wo er on - ks of rt .
in er rk we re ng to re ds or ng he ce on nd ed ta .
ow is a st of se nd er ch es at it er ch :
op ng ds at it he al ps at st ng es in he hy .
or le , in nt rk we ve wn at he cy of ur an ag of ds er an be ed by ng he ss hy to in re te es of ss al rd es ( 23 ) .
se he st ol of ed eb es to nt he le nd - ed ta to ve ng cy .
ly we ve wn at he em hm an be ed to ne ed nd ed ta to st cy ( 23 ) .
we re so ng he on of em th ol - ed ng or ve ng in ch he er ts ls or ic eb es se el ll be ly
co - ng le rs .
or le , er a em ng in ch ne eb ge er es he ds on he ge , nd a nd er es ad he ds on he ng ks to at ge .
in nt rk , we ve ed a od by ch ch er ts as a er or he er , nd we ve ed al ts nd al is ng he se of is
it re ic re .
we an to re ys in ch un , rb , nd al es ed om he xt an be ed as es or on on .
we ve ed ry ts at ow ed cy in me es en ur ag of ds on is ed by se ed es ( 23 ) .
we re at ch ic es ll be en re ul or ks th ew ds , ch as ng al ks .
re le es or ng to ct xt ds om eb es .
we ve ed a er of es to is sk ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ng ti - gy
te al ag - of - ds ds to st - er ng ks .
we ve un ng ds at nt st - er ng th he ty to se ag -
of - ds rs to nt ew es or ng he es nd ks ed in ed es ( 23 ) .
it re ml re .
we an to te he ty of ng he ml re of es en ng es or on on nd on on .
we ve ed ne ch to ng ml re nd ng it or ng ks ( 23 ) .
rn es er he ng ge se .
we an to se ng ds to er ng es er he ts at ve en ed om he eb , nd to se se ed ts to ve re ct on .
or le , in he ty ge se we ht ct to rn ow to ct he nt of a ty er ed on he nt of er nt es .
nd he gy to ew em ns .
we re ly ng ur ds to he sk of ng on ut es om he eb .
a ng re ly ed es om ve es
le ve es en es te ns , it ts ms en ne ts to et he re or ch ss as an te of ty .
er - ss es or he ng ss nd to te rd 23 nd es or he ng ss nd rd 23 .
en he ct is so ng at ng - nt nd - ff or es he ty to be ed as ly 23 or he ng ss nd 23 or he rs .
se me es re an ct of he ce on .
if or ch rd , he ue of pr ( |c ) en nt es rs by ne er of de , en he al es th er by as ny rs of de as re re ds in he nt .
ss - al rd es ld be ch re ar ss es if rd es re en
we ld ke es at ly ct he ty in ch on nd le us to ly re he es of le ts .
we pt to er he me es , le ll ng he ty of ng rd - es , in wo ps .
st , ad of ng he ct of he rd ds , we se he ic an of he ds .
is ch is ly ed to he pt of ty in ge ng or ch on ( 23 ) .
ty is a re of he od of me ta en a el , re he od is ed or he th of he ta .
we in th ve es ( eq .
23 ) , te he um to an nt on at ms er ll ds in he ry t ad of st he ds in he nt ( eq .
23 ) , ke he og , ( eq .
23 ) , nd de by he er of ds in he nt ( eq .
is ts in he og of he ic an of he rd ds , us a rm or he ss or .
pr ( c ) rk - |c ) = pr ( c ) h rk ' k ) *^ ( 23 )
oc og ( ? i ( c ) ) + 3n ( ^d ) og ( pr ( u; , - |c ) ) ( 23 )
+ og ( mc ) ) ( 23 )
og ( pr ( c ) ) , tn ( wi , d )
if we et n ( wi , d ) / n as pr ( \d ) , he ht - nd rm of is on is he ve ss py ( 23 ) en he on of ds ed by he nt th he on of ds ed by he ss :
og ( pr ( c ) ) pr ( u> . <j ( ) ^ ( ic ) )
us , he nd rm es at he ss c th he st re ll be he ne th he st ss he ss at ld " ss " he nt st ly .
is on ts in es or ch ss at ry ly , ut es rd
ss py in on 23 an be ly od as he ge er of ts ry to de a rd om he nt ng an ng at is al or he on of ds ly wn om he ss .
ss py es ot , er , nt or he ng ty of ng nt me ts re re ex , nd ly re re ts on ge to de .
we nt es at an be ly ed en ts .
a ay to nt or es en ts is to se ck - er at is , to ct he ge er of ts it ld ke to de he nt ng ts al ng ( ng in , at he ds re nt of ne er ) .
is ts in an on at an be ly od as he ge er of ra ts ed se we re ng a al ng ad of he al ng .
we fy he nd rm of on 23 so at it es he kl ce re or ch ss :
m^ + rk . og ( |l - j| )
n 23 pt ( \d ) j
we so ze he es ss ll es so at ey um to a nt .
is or - on so as he ct of ng ur ce in he on of ts th gh rd py .
is is ly le se gh - py ts ve re ue ds , ch an be ed as er ce , nd re ly to lt in a ct on .
te at he ns to 23 do ot ge he ng of ss es or a en nt .
ly , he ns de by ve es re ot ed .
se ns ly ve to de ll - ed , le es .
te at ne of he es ce rd ve es in on 23 as ed he ed ng of nt es or he me ey ve ot ed on at ld ve ed om ve es .
ey ve ly ed to de ll - ed , le es .
