ng in ge ts es is of ex , te ta .
in nt rs , ne is ch at as wn in ty is he se of ne ng ms to in rs to de li , al es , rs nd er es of st om ri ta nd by ow he ta in gh on ut em .
in is al ew we ew me of he ey es ed in ng is ch as ll as ow to ve ly nt ts , ng ch nt om a se dy .
re , we ow ow , in on to ng he on of is re on ut a le of st ( rn on ) , rs an be ed to le er es of on , ly re is he on ( rn on ) nd ow is at on ed ( rn on ) .
in he st ew rs re as en ng st in he se of ne ng rs or ng ri ta .
a ng er of es as wn at ne ng rs an be ed to ct ng ew on om ng ta ( ee ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) or ve ws ) .
ng th he th in st nd th of on , he ds ng he se of rs th ri ve ly ed nd ed ( ee ( 23 ) or a al ew ) .
en he ty of he ch , re ve en ew ts to ze nd te le ds in a le ce .
he nt le es to fy at on by ng a al on to er ds in ri .
ur on ll be ed nd he ea at er - ed es , ke al ri al - es , an be ed in ms of a es of ic es er a es of on ts in he is ss , ng om on of he ic on to be ed nd ng th es ng ts or es .
we in by ng ut an ve le of a er - ed is , nd en ct he is ss , ng he et of es it ly es , nd he es le at ch ge .
re ve en er ls or a ed re or ng rs to se ri ta ( e . g .
gh th an is on a le pe of er nd ng he se of ty on .
we en is ea to de al ds of er nd so he se of re on .
we de th a on of he ts of ic ns at ay be ly ed ng rs , nd he ys in ch he ce of on ts nt is ns .
re le , we ss hs nd es of ng ns .
er , it is nt to ge om he et at rm ds or ch ns re in ny es ot et le .
re le , we er ns ed on he ts of al es or ed al ts ( om ( 23 ) ) .
re se re ng , we ll es ct ns wn om ur wn al ce th er - ed is of ri ta .
re ng to he on of he is er , we in in he xt on by ey ng ne ng rs in ir wn ht .
23 at is a er ?
on is he ue of on en he le ng ed is te , er an us .
a er is a on at es he es of us es ( nt es or rs , in on ) in an le ( he et of nt le es ) nd ts he ss at at le gs to ( he nt le ) .
in a ng ng , he es ld be ls nd he ss ld be he pe of us he ct as ng at en he el es re ed ( ee re 23 ) .
we ll te an le by he ow or x = ( 23 .
xv ) nd ts ss el as y .
a er as a er of rs at ve to be
re 23 : an le re ls re es as a ow or ( ft ) nd a et as ix of ch rs ( ht ) .
ed om ng ta a et of es ed or is se ly to ow on rs re ed ng st es .
he ed er is ly a el of he ip en he es nd he ss el in he ng et .
re ly , en an le x , he er is a on f at ts he el y = f ( x ) .
ce ed he er an be ed to ne er he es ed in on ut he ss of he le .
is ip is ed by ng he ed er on a nt et of es , he st ta .
ly , he ea is at , if he er ly ed he ip en es nd ss , it ht to be le to ct he es of es it nt en re .
he al on or er ng ms is at he ng ( nd ng ) es re ly wn om an le n; en ng a er on a st et we re ng an te of ts ce on ny st et om he me on .
is is ed in rt c ) of re ? ? .
we ll te he ng nd st ts by in nd st , es th ly in nd st es as ir ws , nd he le ls by he mn rs in nd st .
he st ly ed re of ow ll a er es on he st et is ts cy .
is is ly he on of es in he st et or ch he ct el as ed , i . e .
st , re i ( f ( xi ) , y ) = 23 if f ( xi ) = yi ( he el of he th le as ed ly ) or 23 se .
as we ll ss in on 23 , re re al es of er .
er , or ns at ll me ar , ur is ll be on ar s; in is pe he on on es on a ar on of he es , i . e .
f ( x ) = g ( 23 + .
+ wv xv ) , nd he ts wi in at on re he rs to
23 er is : an ve le
in is on we ll ce an ve le of a er - ed dy , ch ll de a is or
he nt at ve se to ur et as ed to st he on of er he on as a lt of ng ds at re er ds of ol or ds of ng ld be ed by a er .
23 he ct as wn ne rd er al nd ed he ng sk : he ct ld nk ut he em nd ts es le he rd as ed ( 23 ds ) nd ar er nd ds ( 23 ds of nk en ) .
re re 23 nt ms ng to ch of he wo es nd 23 al hs .
in ch ch ll 23 ms re ed , ut n; ll 23 hs ad he me ms .
es re ed th a tr of 23 nd , th el ns 23 23 mm .
he et nt a al ri ng am om om es ng pm ( 23 ) .
he ps ed re me on nd ce on ng on , ed by a se ar ng .
a in sk as ed ly nd ed to ct ls ed in he nt ps .
gh he al et ed al ts , we ll us on a le ne .
ch al as ed to an le by ng he ge ge ng a 23 nd an le he ct as ng ut he us wn a ew ds r; se 23 ds ed he ed ak of he al ng he al .
ch le as us a or of en 23 nd 23 es , re es , ch ng to he 23 nd ge al at a el .
in ch ge ge ly en 23 nd 23 of he ls re ed in he in sk .
ng ch al to in an le ed a al of 23 es
ta ly ed by rt on nd el st , er or ve in ng , mu , ho an he nt .
re 23 : a er is ed om he ng et , es se ls it an ee , nd ed to ct ls or a st et , es se ls it ot ee .
he ed ls re en ed to he ue ls nd he rs cy ed .
or ch of he ls nd gs es .
ch le or as ed to ve an 23 nd rd on 23
es re er ed by ch of he ix hs ey ed , as ed in re 23
th es in nd , he et as ed to a ng nd a st et , th a al of ng a er se sk as to ct he ry of an le .
as ed ly , he rs of a er re ed om he es in he ng et , nd he er is en ed on he es in a te st et ( ee re 23 ) .
in he le dy we ed he et or ne ct to es ng om er he en or he dd hs , ng se in hs 23 , 23 nd 23 to be he ng et ( 23 es ) nd se in hs 23 , 23 nd 23 to be he st et ( 23 es ) .
en is , we ed a an ve es er ( ee on 23 ) nd ed it to he st et .
or 3% of he es he el as ed ly .
en is lt , ld we de at he er nt om he ng et as le of ng he ls of he st et er an ce nd , re , at he ri es ed nt on ut he us ry ? or ld it st ve ne is ll on he st et by ce ? in er to st he al ce of is lt , we ed he ll is at he er as ng at ce el ( e . g .
he cy of on on ge ld be 3% ) nd ed it ng he re we be in on 23 .
or an cy of 3% th 23 st es he st ed a p - ue of 23 nd he ll is as
23 er is : es nd ns
he ng le , gh ed as an ed ve , an be en wn to a et of es , ng th he on of aw ta to a et of es nd ng gh ce of er , ng nd st ts nd on of ts .
at ch ge , he er es a ce ng le in at ws we ne ch ge nd he es it ts , as ll as ow se es ct nd re ed by al rs .
23 ng es
ng es in al es ng at to se as es , ow to ct ir es nd at we ld ke to ct .
in ur ve le we se to ge al rs th of es in a le al to te an e; as a le rd us ps to a le al is is a al ce .
ny er ns re le , er .
we ld ad ve ed ch al tr in a al as an le by lf , or ed ny ls th ds ng to he me ry to a le le .
ne is ot ed to ng ls as es .
we ld se he ge of al ls in ne oi as a le re ( ly , he oi es he re ) or se ls at a ar me nt in a al .
he er is ed in ( 23 ) in a on re at es he on ng ng of us nd us es is he me se of on in us ls ve in th ns .
er ty is to ke ng es ly om he on al nd ad do it om on nt es , if ch ss an be ed th a or .
he on of at to se as ss ls ds on he es of he er , ut we te at ne is ot ed to ng li es .
ne ld so se ct es or ns in ce of a us ( e . g .
id he ct et is ht or ng ? ) .
a ly ve le of is is he dy ( 23 ) , re he on is of ch of wo le es a ct ts ng in a ar ry on .
in ng es , re is an nt eo ed th he er of es ed .
is is he eo en ng ny sy es ( e . g .
ne er al ) or er , er es ( e . g .
ne of ch ss er un ) , as a lt of ng es in he me ss .
gh re is no rd nd st er of es ry to in a er , ng re is ly er , to he ee at he er an ee gh he se nt ( as ng es th se nd al ty of ve on in he es ng to a ss ) .
ng re es ps in he ng et de in at me of he rs we er re a in er of es to in od es of ir rs .
ly , re re me rs at re ly le or a on th ry ew es , nd we ss is at er th in on 23 .
om he st et nt , ng re st es es he er of he st or ce of he cy ed .
in on 23 we ll ce ss - on , a re at es ry nt se of es or th ng nd ng .
ne ue to be nt of is he ty of ng he me er of es in ch ss .
en is is ot he se a er ng hm ay nd to us on he st us ss , to he nt of he s; is ll so ct he on of an cy lt ( e . g .
3% cy ay ot be ry od in a on re 23 of 23 es ng to ne ss nd 23 of 23 to he er , if it ns he er ly ts he st us ss by lt ) .
is ce en es an be ed by ng ly a et of he es in he st us ss , ng he re or us ts nd ng
te at ng ve es as al ng es ld be ed , as he ng al on in he al ll ly re se es re ot nt .
ly , it so ns at ng al ry ar es ll ot ng in ch ew on .
is es ot ar us om ng ve es in he st et , ng on he se ( ee on 23 or an le re ng es me om ck ta nd st es om nt - ed ta ) .
on - nt st es ot , er , be ed or he ce st ed er ( he al on me is he um of he ts of nt li ls ) .
en at re re ly ny re es an es , it is en us to ce he er of es ed to us on a et of ar t; is is ed re on .
or ce , if ng ls as es , we ay st nt he ls in a ar on of st ( oi ) or ir es at a ar nt in a al .
he al ue to ep in nd is at he ce of es at is ge st ot nd on he ls at ll be ed to in a er .
to ee hy , ne a on re we re ed in ng he on of a us ng .
it is le to ct he ls ed to se in al ex , ed ly .
it is so le to ct em er to se ng me ty ng sk ls ve to a ne .
at is ot le to ct ls at ar to sh ne on om er in he re et .
he on or is is at it is a le rm of ng he st et on ct he ng of he er in he ng et , nd it ds to ic cy es .
ng at he ls or he re et is es ed ng , te at is es ot an at he ss ls ot be ed at ll in re on .
ey an be ed ce he ta ve en ed to ng nd st ts , ng ly he ng et , nd we ss ll al ts of ng it in on 23 . 23
an ve th to ng he er of es a er as to er is ty on ng a od ch as ar ue on / al nt is ( 23 ) or nt om - ts is ( 23 ) on he re et ix ( ws re es , ns re es ) .
he ty en se ds is at ey rm he al re ce ( e . g .
ls ) to a ew , ow - al re ce , ng a ew et ix th he me er of ws nd a ll er of ns .
is is ys th ng nd a ry ep or ar rs , as we ll ee in on 23 , ut ot at ll ed to ve ts , ly se st ty on es re ss ls in ir ia ( gh ee dm ( 23 ) nd ls ( 23 ) ) .
a al ue to er in he on of es is at of ng .
by is we do ot an he al ng of ta , e . g .
on on or ng , a ic ed in at th in ( 23 ) .
we an , er , at ne on he es , ed as a ix th n ws ( re ch ow is an le ) nd v ns ( es ) .
in he le dy , we ed ch le ( ow ) to ve an 23 nd rd on 23
he ea in is se is to ce he ct of ge , ge - de al es .
er ty ld be to ed ch re ( mn ) to ve an 23 nd rd on 23 , er ss he re nt or in es ng om he me un .
is is th ng if re is a ce at me ls ll ve ch er on in al de an rs .
gh a ar er an in
le te or is to me ee by ng he nt or ch el , re re ns re it ll ot nd us is on ll lp .
ur wn ce ts er ow or mn on is ly al nd ld be ed in rn , as ng em ay es ve se ts .
23 ng a er
er we ed he ea of a er as a on f at es an le x nd es a ss el on y = f ( x ) .
he ic nd of on ng nt nd he ns lt to it is at es he us es of er .
in is on we ew nd st he rs st ly ed th ri ta , as ll as he rs at ke in ng ch nd to se .
we ly ch al il in ix a .
he st on re is ed st - ur nd it nt en ve ly ng a on on .
on of a st le is ne by ng he ng et le at is st ar to it by me re ( e . g .
st an ce , ng he re re or ) nd ng he el of is st ur to he st le .
ts of is ea de ng ll he ng et es in ch ss to a le ss pe le or ng he ty el in he k - st rs ( k dd ) .
th ts ze he ct of se ( if he es of nt es re ll ly se to ch er ) ut an be le to ng me on if re is al on - se ty in he es in ch ss ( e . g .
es in ne ss me in wo rs at re ly ar to ch er ) .
as st - ur on an rk ry ll if re is a ll er of es , it st ly ll ot in a on re re is a ge er nd ly a ew re ve .
ce it is ly ed in on th me rm of re on , as in ( 23 ) or ( 23 ) .
rs at do rn an al on de to at re ed ve nd ve ls .
in he er , a on on th a en ic rm is nt ly om he ng ta by ng ts rs .
in he er , at is ed is ly a al el at ld te an le ng to a ar ss ( i . e .
it ls he ns of re es al on le ss , p ( |y = a ) nd p ( |y = b ) ) , ch is en ed ia es le to fy ( i . e .
ds p ( y = |x ) nd p ( y = |x ) , nd he on is he ss or ch at ty is st ) .
in he al ri dy , we ly ve ny re es an s; if ng ls in he le in as es , ts ot al to ve a ew ns of es nd ns of ds of es ( or at st a ew ds , if ng re on as ed in on 23 . 23 ) .
he ct of is is at it ll ly be le to nd a on at an fy he es in he ng et ll , ut is ly ng at it ll do ll in he st et ( or a re ed on of he on hy ee ( 23 ) ) : is on is ed ng 23
ne ay of ng to id ng is to se as le a on as le at es ll in he ng et .
he st al ce or a le on is to ve he on nd on a ar on of he es at an en or se he ce of ch ne of em , st as ar on .
to ke he ea of a ar er re te , he er is ed by a et of ts w nd , or an le x th v es
xw = 23 + .
+ xv wv
he er ts ss a if xw > 23 or ss b if xw < 23 ( th es en ly ) .
ne ce ty of ar rs , nd ir ty , is he ct at ch re ts he on ly ia ts ht nd ut on th er es , ng us a re of ts ce on at on .
we ss ys to se is , as ll as me ts , in on 23 .
a re ic on or is is en in re 23 , in a er ed wo el in , th ee es of ch ss ( ch le is ed by he ue of he wo ls ) .
ng a ar er is nt to ng a ne at es ts in he wo es as ll as le , he on ry .
es of rs at rn is re ic on ( lr ) nd ar rt or es ( vm ) .
as is ht em te om he ve el ea ed er , he on ns of an ve es ( nb ) nd rs ar nt is ( da ) an be ed in is er as ll , nd us ly ed in he ar er ry .
te at re re ny le ar ts at ly fy he ix ng es wn in re 23
he us rs ve nt es or ng ng se , ch nd to nt ns of ng ts as ll as le .
er so at , en or a ic pe of er , re ay ll be ny le gs of ts rs at ad to ly od ns in he ng et .
he ss of ng he re at ts he rs to a on th le es ll ts ll , or ce is ed
an le of is ld be to se a ry gh - ee al to el ts in a me es ng om a ow - ee al th ed se .
he ry gh - ee al ld ly be se at ng ew ts an a ow - ee
ar nt a
ar nt b
ss - on ld 23
ss - on ld 23
re 23 : ft : ng a ar er is nt to ng a ne at es es in he wo es ( rs in a 23 - el in ) as ll as le .
ht : ng ss - on ch of 23 ps of es es a rn as he st et le he st ve as he ng et .
on .
th he es nd he ay on is ne or he us ds of rs re ed in ix a .
ll is gs us to he on of ch er to se , ch we ll pt to er ed on ur ce nd a ti - dy on of rs nd re on ds ( 23 ) .
in es re re re a ge er of es ( e . g .
ll he ls in he ex ) , nb is ly or to lr nd ar vm , as he on in he er ly ps gh wn he ct of sy es at re ly ed th ch er .
he ge ly rs if ng re on , ce nb is a ul er or es at ed to be ed ny es , ch as on ts , ue to ng ch er to in an he rs .
da ds to be ed er in on th me re on or th ty on ( ( 23 ) ) , as se re re ly ot gh es to te ts ce ix ly .
if ng en lr nd ar vm , ey re ly nt er an or he ct at he st ds lf re ly to es re re re re an wo es .
so ar , nd or he ke of ty , we ve ed rs in a on re es ng to ne of wo es ut , in al , we ht ve re ( al nt us es , ct es , tc ) .
st of he rs ed ve rk ut on in a le ss io .
he ne on re he vm s; gh ss ns do st , st es in nt se re ou to te al wo ss ms ( e . g .
ch ss us ll he rs , or ll rs of es ) nd ne em to ce a ay on on .
we be me es to ng is in ix a .
at id , en he ct of st in a le ss on is ot so ch he aw cy ( do we ve at ds of es of ct li ld be le ed on ri on , or ce ? ) as ch es an be ed om ch rs , nd ow .
ce , it ht ke re se to er ll rs of es , in nd st a er or ch se on nd ce at is ed a on ix , a es es ix re ry ( i , j ) ns he cy of he on en es i nd j .
en is ls ps of es at re rd to sh om ch er ut at re le om er up ( e . g .
al ll ct li us al nd an es ) .
re re re ex rs , ch as ar ms or al al ks , ch an et ac - ns en es nd ar ns of ve he n; we ll ot ss em at th or wo in ns .
he st is at it is ar at ey de a nt ge in al ce ve to ar rs ( in nt es or he ti - dy on in ( 23 ) ) .
in ur on is is re a on of he ct at he er of es le is so ll an of he ce of ed ps en es .
he nd on is at he ip en es nd he on es er to et ( gh ee ( 23 ) ch es a ss my om he en er de ty in a al rk , or ce ) .
is nt an at se rs ot be ed ly en he er of es is er , in ar en ng on ng as ed in on 23 .
we be se rs nd ir ip to ar rs in re il ix a .
23 ng nd ng in ss - on
in ur ve le we ed he et in wo es , ne ed or ng nd he er or ng .
as we er ed , we ld ke to in a er th as ch ta as e; ly , we ot in nd st on he me ta if he al is in a ul te of he rs ue cy , i . e .
he ty at it ld el ny re st le ly .
re , ng st a ew es or ng ll ot ad to a od te : it ll be ly le , as ll as ed to a ew le es .
ng he et in lf to ve re st es , as we id in he le dy , ns we ht be ng a ch se er an we ly ld th re ng es .
ly , re is a re at ws us to ve ur ke nd at ( st ) ll of it oo . . .
he re is ed ss - on .
in ts st me nt , ss - on ws se ps :
ve ne le ut , in on he ng es , ke a on or is le at or ch le in rn te he cy of he ns de or ll he es
is nt is ed ve - ne - ut ss - on .
gh ch er ed is ly nt , ne an ct em to be ar nd ct ly , ce ey re so ch ng ta .
ce we at he cy te ed in is er as he ed cy of a er ed on a et th ll ut ne le , ng ( 23 ) .
te is so es a ly ve te of he cy we ct if we re to in a er ng ll he le es .
in ce , ng ch le ut an be ly ve se ad of a le er we re ng as ny rs as re re es .
ne se is a re ed a k - ld ss - on , re k is he er of ts to ch he et is d; on es re k = 23 or k = 23 , ng to ng ut 3% or 3% of he es on ch ld .
ly , ri ts re en ly ed in a ay at es ll se es , be it in ns or hs in a un re ll he le es or li ar .
ur ve et es ly to ix ps , ng to he ix hs of li in he t; ch up is ed in rn as he st et in ss - on , th he ng ps ed as he ng et ( on he ht of re 23 ) .
ce we se he er to ke ge of se al ns at st on a st pt , ly ng to a er in on at ll as he ed es if re ng es re ed .
de om he er of es ft ut re re er nt ns .
he st is at he ng ta in ch ld st in es of ll es , as se he er or at ld ll ot be le to ct he nt es .
as ed er , es ld be ed , i . e .
ve ly he me er of es .
re , es at re ed - by ng se in me , or ce - ld nd up in he me ld .
se , he er ay be le to ct ly or st es th a ed rt in he ng et .
23 . 23 re on
in on 23 we ed he ea of re on , in ns re we ve me a ri on or ng em , e . g .
ng to st er ls in a ar oi ve on .
re on is en ed ry in er to in rs in ns re ts ve ry ge rs of es .
hy ht it lp ? ly , he al is to ce he io of es to es ng he ce of ng as ll as to ng id of ve es to et he er us on ve es .
st ll he ri ng ts ed in he re ed er re on or me er rm of ty on ( ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) .
re on in al is oo st a ic to ch in at il re , ut a ul ew of th gy nd he st of us es is en in ( ( 23 ) ) .
ne on en de is en ng / ng nd er ds .
he er es ng he es by a en on - ch re is ed by lf , a it ke a te st of a el - nd ng he st in he ng .
he er ts ly of ng ew es by ow ch ct ey ve on he er en he es dy ed .
is an be ne by ly ng nd ng he er in ss - on in he ng et .
en he en ve al se of er ds ue to he ge er of es we ll be ed ly th re ng ds .
re re al ic ds or ng ve es .
in el , es in he ri in re en ls nd re is a re to be le to ok or in es of el ur , e . g .
is a el ry ve or ne ar on or ng en wo ps of ns .
ce st nt rs rt to ds at aw om th se es , ch we ze ow .
te at od
er of ls
le 23 : on ts ng ch of al on ds th er us ed rs of ls ( ft ) or th he er ed ng ed ss - on ( cv ) de he ng et of ch ld ( ht ) .
es re ed in ms of ls nd ns ( es ) , or ty , ut ld be ed or er ds of es :
ty - is od ts ls at re ve in at st ne on ve to a ol - sk ne , ng a el as ed by a t - st on he ce in an ty el en on
cy - is od es a el by ow ly a an an er an ct he on of ch le in he ng et , ed ly on he el .
it es a ss - on in he ng et or he el nd he cy is he ls re .
ht cy - he me as cy , ut ad of ng he ta om a le el ( nb er th ne re ) we se he ta om he el nd ts ly nt rs in ee ns ( a er th up to 23 es , er an be nb , da or vm ) .
va - is od ks or ls re re re le es in an ue ss ns
a is nt om b c d , or ab om cd , tc ) , as ed by an va .
ty - is od ks ls at ct to he us ns ly ss ss - on ps in he ng et ( e . g .
if he an ue in a is ss an b nd er an c , is is ed in
se ls of ow se ds an be ed nd er es re ed in ix b .
te at he ds ve re , th on of ht cy , te .
re re ng ts at ow at , in me es , te re on an rk er , ch re ed in on 23
ly , he ds ed ve de gs of s; ne ht ll ve to de on ow ny of he op - ed ls to se om he ng or ch od .
or ds at re ed on a al on ( e . g .
t - ts of on ) , it is on to se a le on on ch as ni or se ry te ( 23 ) nd ep st he es ed nt at a en el .
is is le ut ic if ew or no ls re nt ( le en he nt of se nd ry ll le es ) or he re ed by he od es ot ap to a p - ue ( gh ic ds an ll be ed to in ne , ee ix c ) .
23 . 23 re on nd ss - on
up ll ow we ve ed re on as a ic by lf .
en , er , re on is ed in on th ss - on nd is ls ar ns .
he st is at on st en on he ng et .
as ed er , or ry ld in ss - on we ve a nt ng et nd us es ve to be ed ly or ch ld .
a nd on is at , as ed er , he ds ed in ce nk es nd we ll ve to de ow ny to se , ss he od es a le ( e . g .
he er of ls re a t - st is nt at a in el ) .
a al ch is to ot it to a ic er , ut to ad ce a re ng by ch od or ch ld .
is an en be ed to in , or ch od , an cy re ng ch of he rs of ls ed ( e . g .
op 23 , op 23 , op 23 , tc ) .
he nd ct is a ds ls le of cy ts , ch as le 23 ( ft ) or ur
if re on ld be ne or to ss - on ( e . g .
by ng ls om ne oi , or by me er od at ds ng he ls of he st es ) , he le re an be un as if he et ed ly he ed es .
in is nd he se re he od es he er of es , he nd ct is a ds 23 or of cy ts .
an ve to ng ll rs of ls is to et he ng et in ch ss - on st ch er to ck .
to do is , we an un a ed ss - on ( cv ) de he ng et .
er ur ve le , ch ad 23 ps of es ed on hs .
ng he st ss - on ld ,
we ed on up 23 ed in on ps 23 - 23
ng a ed ss - on ns ng he ss - on re ed ve de ps 23 - 23 by ng on 23 nd ng on 23 - 23 , en ng on 23 le ng on 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , tc .
he lt or is ng et is , in , ds ls le of ts .
or ch od , is le ll ld he er of ls at ch he cy is t; is is he er at ll be ct om he ng ed om ps 23 - 23
he nd ct is a ds 23 or of cy ts , as wn in le 23 ( ht ) or ur le et .
23 ng ts
he on ng a er on ri ta is ed th ng at a le of st an be ed om it , i . e .
a er an be ed se ue cy is er an at of a er ng at om .
a nt lt is us ne re ne an ct he ll is at re is no on ut he le of st .
ng ce is ly ne by ng ow le a on ts ld be re he ll is to be ue ( is ty is ed a p - ue ) .
he cy on he st et is an te of he ue cy of is er .
ly , is is he ty at it ll ly el a ew le wn at om om he me on at he er es me m; it an so be ed as he cy ne ld et if ne ad an te er of es in he st et .
ce , ow od an te it is ds on he ze of he st et .
it is an ed te se he st es ve ot en en by he er ng ng .
in is on he ty of ng he lt er is ll is is sy to te .
it an be ed as he me of ng a in or ch of he es to be ed , th he ns as ng he ty of ng an le ly by ce ( 3% in a wo ss em , 3% in a ur ss em , tc ) .
us , he p - ue er is ll is of k ly ed st es is , if we ne x to be he er of ly ed es , ly p ( x k ) er a al on th n ls nd ty of ss 23 ( wo ss ) , 23 ( ur ss ) , c; if he p - ue is ow a in ld ( ly 23 or 23 ) he lt ll be ed nt .
he cy te ed gh ss - on is a on of ts ed by rs ed on ly ng ng ts , ce we ll at at te as if it me om a le er , ng on ce ( 23 ) .
is ws us to st it in ly he me ay .
ng he ce st to le , nt ts is rd , in at ne an ly rt to a le on on on nd st he ce ld ly .
is is he on we ve en we er he ed ss - on ( cv ) ts , as ch ne is he ct of ng a er ng ls ed th a nt od .
if , ad , we re st ng a ds ls le of ts , we ld se he me ch to ly st ll he ts in he le .
is ld , er , be ve , in at he ts or a en od re ed to me t; is ws om he ct at he lf he ls ed by he er ed on he op 23 ls re so ed by he ne ed on he op 23 , ay .
a on ea to al th is ue is to ct he um lt ng ll se ed ng a ar on od ( a le ow ) ; it is en ed by he ke of ng at um lt or ce in he ay ed .
to ee hy is an be a em , er a on re he rs re ng nt rs of es nd , in ch se , ve a ue cy ( er he ng le on ) of 23 .
it is le en in is on at , at st or ne er of es , he ly ed cy ll be ly h; is es re ly he er he et is .
if we re st ng he st er of es to be he ne at ch he um cy is ed , we ld ck is lt nd ly em it nt .
ce ne ty is to rt he re le nd he er of es ed , nd ct or ll of em , at he sk of ng ve .
he er ty is to rt he um cy lt nd st it ly ng a on st , as ws .
ng re is no ss on in he ta , he ls an be ed ut ng he ed cy ng a en er nd er of es ( is ld be ce el ) .
is is ly he nd of on re ne an se a on st , by ng he re ss of ng a lt le om a et th ed ls ( ee ( 23 ) , ch ws he se of on ts in on th ne al ng on , nd so ix c or re ls ) .
er ny ns is ds a le of cy ts or ch ll in he le er he ll is ut so , re ly , or ny ed es ch as he um of ch le ow .
he p - ue er he ll is or ch ry of he al lt le is he on of he ng le at is er an or al to it , nd is es to he um as ll .
he in em of ng to is ch is ts al
23 ns of rn on
we ve en ng a er - ed is as a ce of es th es at ch ge .
ne ce at we ve ot et ly ed is ps he st nt : he ce of he al ic on to be ed .
ur us so ar as en on he se of rs or rn on .
re , he ic on ng ed is ly er ri ta ry on ut a en le of st .
ng he er to is on is of st , or le , in al is or ie on ( 23 ) .
we an ew al te ds as ng is on on a el by el or oi by oi is .
rs ng to he on an se in ty of on , th by ng on ss ny ls ut so by ng ts on al ty or he ed or el es to be ar .
in on to he on of er ri ta ry ss on , re re at st wo er ic ns to ch rs an be ed , ly re or en is ss on ed ( rn on ) , ow is ss on ed nd ow es ts ng te to wn ps en li ( rn on ) .
is on es he nt to ch ns se ns an be ed ng he ry of ar rs nd re on , as ll as he ns nd ts .
or he st of he on we ll me es re ls , as it ll fy on .
23 rn on
ce it as en ed at ss on is nt in a et , ne ay go on to sk re in he in is on es .
a al ch or ng is is to sk ch ls te st ly nd ly to he rs ss .
re re wo ts to is : ng ch ls re ng ed nd so ow ir ht ts he er on .
en ss - on is ng ed , a ar el on od an nd ry ly ll nk nt ls at he op om ld to ld .
it ay me as a se at , or ny ts , he ap en he et of ls ed in ll ds us he et ed in an al ld is ly ll ( en 23 23 nd 23 is al ) en if ng a ly ge on of he al er of ls ( 23 ) .
is is ot a em , ly , it st ts he ct at er ls re ed in nt on .
re ht be cy , in at ny ls de he me gs nd a ew et ed in ch ld , nd re ht be a ll ry et , nt in ll ds .
ne le gy or ng he al et of ls ng on ld be to rt om he es nt in ll or st ll ds nd se em as ds in a ng hm at ld nd ls th ar se es ss es .
a ed ue is er he on ed by ls is he me in he ts ed by us on ds .
re re wo ys of ng is ue : ne is to ok at ap in ed ts , ow en ds , nd he er to er er a en er ng nt el ts ms ly ( in ar , er it es nt on rs ) .
or ms th wo es , st on ia ll nd ar ls , as re nt ny ys at a el ld nd ly to he wo es .
in ss ms ts st re re nt es of el ur nd he us el on ds ed er an ck on nt es ( 23 ) .
ce , if we sh to se er on ss as an on at he el et it es ns ve ls , it is se to er nt on s; it is so a od ea to ne er re is ny ap en he el ts ed in ll ds by ch od .
en a et of ls , a nt on is ch of se ls st ly ct er ns .
he se of ar rs es it ly le to er is on , as ch el ts he on ly gh he de of ts ht , nd ot gh he on th er ls .
ix a ns ow to et se ts or he us ar rs , as ll as or st ur rs th ar ce es ( gh in is se he ts re st le ic , er an he me or ny le ) , nd so ws at a al ge of el ts ks ke .
te at ou an ke is er by ng he ts by he ge le of ch ss , ng ou ss - ic es .
a al ue if ng ss - on is at , in , we ve a nt et of ls nd us a nt er in ch ld .
a ic ch is to up ll he ls at re ed in at st ne of he ds nd un he ss - on in on at t; if he cy is le to at as ed th he al ss - on , he er ts an be ed ss ds nd ed .
ly , if he cy ng ll he ls le is gh re on in ms th ew es - we an st er he ts er ll se ls .
ne nt to be re ng ar rs is at he on or lr or ar ms ll se he ts on ed ls to go wn ly to he er of ed ls .
is is al en he on is ly en by a se ce nd is he on hy , in al , th es of er rm nb if ll ls re ed ( 23 ) ( gh ot if ed th el on ) .
er , it is te
er cy at ch el ng us rs
er ts or a ar vm ed on he re ge
re 23 : op : on of cy ps ed th 23 - ld ss - on .
ch ow ns ht es om an cy ap , or to or , op of ch ce is or .
he rs ed in ch ow re le el nb nd us 23 od ht nb , da nd ar vm .
on op of ch ce is he er of ls or ch cy as ed nt ng dr q = 23 , ch re ed in rk ed .
om : er ts or a ar vm er ed on he re ge .
le at re ll be ls at te to he on ut se ts re er an se of er ls ng ls .
te at , in on to ng re ss on is nt , we an so sk en es re ed al as ed to al on .
is ed ss ly in he re nd rs in wo nt es .
he st is to er ct a re ce ng to ls at ll me ts in a al or ly ct he me ts ta is ed om , as in ( 23 ) or ( 23 ) .
a re ed ch is ed in ( 23 ) , re rs re ed on ta re es re ly ed en ks nd en ed as rs of ce of ss - ic ns in nt - ed st ta .
he es ed ke on of on to ic ls ss rd an ne ht sh nd , re , he se of ar rs ns at no ar ps en ls an be ed .
re is , er , an ve ch to ng he on on , on - ed al in ng ( 23 ) , ch an te se ms nd so ss on ns to me nt .
a al on of is ea an be ed as ng rs on ny ll el ts ch , ut er , er he le in .
ne al te or is is to in a ct er or ch el , ng ly he ls ly nt to it .
is is in to ng a ht on ry el od in on , nd is en ed to as ng ht rs .
on ts or he er re ns of an rs ( nb , da ) or ar vm ( he al er ed he is ce , ch is rt of he te an on in da ) .
he lt is a in ap re , or ry el , we ve he ss - on cy of a er ed on he od ng it ( ly , he 23 rs in 3d , gh a er us ld be ed ) .
is cy an be ed to a p - ue ng he al od in on ? ? or by ng a on st as ed in on 23 .
in er se , we ll in a p - ue ap at an be ed ng a le on on on , to fy el ds of nt cy .
we in ve a ce of ch er to se , gh in is se he os re nt .
en he ly ll er of ls in a od , it is ow le to in re ex rs .
da is he st us ce , in at a ce ix of ls es ps en em , ut ne ld so pt a ar er if re ex ps re ed .
is ll ly be re us if re re re an wo es , gh th he at at it is ly at on ng ll he es om ch er an be nd in a ll on .
we de a on of le el nb nd ht nb , da nd ar vm in re 23 or ur ve dy .
as re re ng es in he on of ls ed ly ve , re re so ng es en he ps ch we ss in ix b .
or ce , he re so es he ts of a ar vm er on ch el .
23 rn on
nd ng er nd re ss on is ed , rs an so be ed to er he on of ow es re ed in he in .
it is ps re at rs nd er ne ng ds nd to be of er ue .
he rk on on ng in he us on an so be ed om he nt of ew of rn on .
ch od er ts to nd ps en he ls in a ll et at in on .
as id er , en he ll er of ls , we ve he ty of ng ar rs to rn ly ex ps .
ut st ow ex ld ne ct se ps to be ? ne me in he ge of rs is he on in ( 23 ) , re ls re ly re ve to ne ss of us an er , nd us do ot ct an ng of se li .
re is no ge in ng a er at es re an gh a te of ch el to ol on .
he er me is at ( 23 ) ls a al de : he on is in he ex on of el es in nt es .
in en ie ns re ls ve ry ve es ( e . g .
fa or pa in ( 23 ) ) or ls re ve or ps of es ( e . g .
ic ry es at nd to te gs us se at do ot ) .
us ar , we se to be he rk ne ng to ar rs or on ng , th se it is le nd a od ng nt to ss on ns .
re re , er , al nt rs at le is nd of on in re ed ys at de a ed ew , nd ce we ll er em ly ey .
he on ts en em re he sh to nd ps en us th se in ri ta , er ly nd ly ng rs to ct in on , ch as ch as ls of on ns ur or cs on of he us ce .
on he st mp , ( 23 ) ws at a al rk ed to sh es of ht ic es ns a on on ts en er at es a le my of he es nd ( 23 ) ,
on he me et , at he ty to sh he ry li es th he ty of he er to sh he ng es .
( 23 ) ws at at he ty ix of ic li ds to he ty ix of ns of on le ng em nd ( 23 ) es al ty of li to he re of ir al on .
( 23 ) es en ss ls , a ue to fy le ve es nt ly in he in th ng al on , ng ge of in on nd ss ls to in ir al ng .
ly , wo nt es ge in ge to ct ri on or ew li , ng ch an be ed to fy by ng he ed on to he on of li in he ng ( 23 ) es is or al li , ng a el of he es of on ns in he al ex nd ng he ri al om he el ns or ch el .
( 23 ) ns a el at ts ri on or ew ds , ed on ir ty in a ce of ic es to ds or ch ri on is wn .
in is er we ve ed he us es in a ne ng er is of ri ta .
de om ng he es le at ch is ge , ir ns nd he al rs ng em , we ed he se of is nd of is to er ee es of ic on .
se re is re on ut a le of st ( rn on ) , re is he on ( rn on ) nd ow is at on ed ( rn on ) .
we ly ed on ar rs nd he on nd on ns , as se re th er od nd he es st rs re ly to nt to er st .
ce ts nt at me nt al ns ad to be ft ut of he in xt .
us es re ed in a er on of is er le at tp : / / ww . cs . mu . du / ~ ra / ch . ml .
re or ng a er is ( he on ti - el rn is ox ) an be nd at tp : / / ww . mb . on . du / pa , er th ls nd a ry ve ne ty .
we re ll re at he nt er of ch is in rn on , nd ed rs to at we nk me of he st ht - ng rk in is ea .
we re nt at , ss of at ss ay me , it ll ve ne ng ds at ts ot , er - ed or se .
