ing ain age nts res sis of lex , ate ata .
in ent ars , one sis ach hat has own in ity is the use of ine ing hms to ain ers to ode uli , tal tes , ors and her les of est rom mri ata and eby how the ata ain ugh ion out hem .
in his ial iew we iew ome of the key ces ced in ing his ach as ell as how to ive lly ant lts , ing ach int rom a ase udy .
ore , we how how , in ion to ing the ion of is ere ion out a ble of est ( ern ion ) , ers can be sed to kle her ses of ion , ely ere is the ion ( ern ion ) and how is hat ion ded ( ern ion ) .
in the ast few ars ere has een ing est in the use of ine ing ers for ing mri ata .
a ing ber of ies has own hat ine ing ers can be sed to act ing new ion rom ing ata ( see ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) for ive ews ) .
ong ith the wth in est and dth of ion , the ods ing the use of ers ith mri ave sly ved and ied ( see ( 123 ) for a cal iew ) .
ven the lty of the ach , ere ave een few pts to ize and ate ble ods in a gle ace .
the ent cle ves to ify hat ion by ing a ial ion to ier ods in mri .
our ion ill be zed und the dea hat ier - sed ses , ike nal mri nal - ses , can be zed in rms of a ies of cic ces ver a ies of ion nts in the sis ess , ing rom ion of the tic ion to be ked and ing ith ces ong sts for ses .
we gin by ing out an ive ple of a ier - sed sis , and hen ect the sis ess , ing the set of ces it tly ves , and the ves ble at ach age .
ere ave een her als for a ged ure for ing ers to yse mri ata ( e . g .
ugh ith an sis on a gle ype of ier and ing the use of ity ion .
we den his dea to ude ral nds of ier and lso the use of ure ion .
we ude ith a ion of the rts of tic ons hat may be lly sed ing ers , and the ays in ich the ice of ion cts ent sis ons .
ere ble , we uss ths and ses of ing ons .
ver , it is ant to dge rom the set hat rm nds for uch ons are in any ses not yet ble .
ere ble , we oer ons sed on the lts of mal les or led cal sts ( rom ( 123 ) ) .
ere ese are ing , we all mes ect ons awn rom our own nal nce ith ier - sed sis of mri ata .
ore ing nto the ion of the sis per , we gin in the ext ion by iey ing ine ing ers in eir own ght .
123 hat is a ier ?
ion is the gue of ion hen the ble ing ted is ete , her han ous .
a ier is a ion hat kes the ues of ous res ( ent les or ors , in ion ) in an ple ( the set of ent ble ues ) and cts the ass hat hat ple ngs to ( the ent ble ) .
in a ing ing , the res uld be els and the ass uld be the ype of lus the ect was ing at hen the xel ues ere ded ( see ure 123 ) .
we ill ote an ple by the row tor x = ( 123 .
xv ) and its ass bel as y .
a ier has a ber of ers hat ave to be
ure 123 : an ple ere els are res as a row tor ( eft ) and a set as rix of uch ors ( ght ) .
ned rom ing ata a set of les ved for his ose rly to how ion ers are ted ing ast res .
the ned ier is lly a del of the hip een the res and the ass bel in the ing set .
ore lly , ven an ple x , the ier is a ion f hat cts the bel y = f ( x ) .
nce ned the ier can be sed to ine her the res sed ain ion out the ass of the ple .
his hip is ted by ing the ned ier on a ent set of les , the est ata .
ely , the dea is hat , if the ier uly red the hip een res and ass , it ght to be ble to ict the ses of les it snt een ore .
the cal ion for ier ing hms is hat the ing ( and ing ) les are tly awn rom an ple on; hen ing a ier on a est set we are ing an ate of its nce on any est set rom the ame ion .
his is ted in art c ) of ure ? ? .
we ill ote the ing and est ets by ain and est , ces ith ely ain and est les as eir ows , and the ple els by the umn ors ain and est .
the ost nly sed ure of how ell a ier oes on the est set is its acy .
his is ply the ion of les in the est set for ich the ect bel was ted , i . e .
est , ere i ( f ( xi ) , y ) = 123 if f ( xi ) = yi ( the bel of the ith ple was ted tly ) or 123 ise .
as we all uss in ion 123 , ere are ral pes of ier .
ver , for ons hat ill ome ear , our sis ill be on ear rs; in his ype the ion ion ies on a ear ion of the res , i . e .
f ( x ) = g ( 123 + .
+ wv xv ) , and the hts wi in hat ion are the ers to
123 ier sis : an ive ple
in his ion we ill uce an ive ple of a ier - sed udy , ich ill ide a sis for
the ent hat ave ise to our set was ned to est the ion of her the ion as a ult of ing rds hat ere her nds of ool or nds of ing uld be hed by a ier .
123 the ect was own one ord per ial and med the ing ask : the ect uld ink out the tem and its ies ile the ord was yed ( 123 nds ) and ear her ind rds ( 123 nds of ank een ) .
ere ere 123 ent ems ing to ach of the two ies and 123 tal chs .
in ach och all 123 ems ere ted , out on; all 123 chs had the ame ems .
ges ere red ith a tr of 123 ond , ith xel ons 123 123 3mm .
the set ent a cal mri ing eam rom com les ing spm ( 123 ) .
the eps wed ere ume ion and ice ion ing ion , wed by a ise ear ing .
a ain ask was ted lly and sed to ict els red in the ent eps .
ugh the nal set ned ral cts , we ill cus on a gle one .
ach ial was ted nto an ple by ing the age age ing a 123 ond pan ile the ect was ing out the lus own a few nds er; ese 123 nds ned the ted eak of the nal ing the ial .
ach ple was hus a tor of een 123 and 123 ues , ure ues , ach ing to the 123 ond age nal at a xel .
in ach age age nly een 123 and 123 of the els ere ned in the ain ask .
ing ach ial to ain an ple ded a tal of 123 les
ata dly ded by ert son and cel ust , ter for ive ain ing , cmu , who ran the ent .
ure 123 : a ier is ned rom the ing set , les ose els it can see , and sed to ict els for a est set , les ose els it not see .
the ted els are hen red to the rue els and the ers acy ted .
for ach of the ols and ngs ies .
ach ple tor was zed to ave ean 123 and ard ion 123
les ere her ped by ich of the six chs hey ged , as ted in ure 123
ith les in and , the set was ded nto a ing and a est set , ith a oal of ing a ier ose ask was to ict the ory of an ple .
as ned sly , the ers of a ier are ned rom the les in the ing set , and the ier is hen ted on the les in a ate est set ( see ure 123 ) .
in the ple udy we ded the set for one ect nto les ing rom her the ven or the odd chs , ing ose in chs 123 , 123 and 123 to be the ing set ( 123 les ) and ose in chs 123 , 123 and 123 to be the est set ( 123 les ) .
ven his , we ned a ian ive yes ier ( see ion 123 ) and ied it to the est set .
for 23% of the les the bel was ted tly .
ven his ult , uld we ude hat the ier rnt rom the ing set was ble of ing the els of the est set ter han nce and , ore , hat the mri res ned ant ion out the lus ory ? or uld it ust ave one his ell on the est set by nce ? in der to est the cal nce of his ult , we red the ull sis hat the ier was ing at nce vel ( e . g .
the acy of ion on age uld be 23% ) and ted it ing the ure we ibe in ion 123 .
for an acy of 23% ith 123 est les the est ded a p - lue of 123 and the ull sis was
123 ier sis : ges and ons
the ing ple , ugh ted as an ted ive , can be ken own nto a set of ges , ing ith the ion of raw ata nto a set of les and ing ugh ice of ier , ing and est ets and ion of lts .
at ach age , the her ces a ice ong ple in hat ows we ine ach age and the ces it nts , as ell as how ose ces act and are ned by cal ors .
123 ing les
ing les in ral res ing hat to use as res , how to act eir ues and hat we uld ike to ict .
in our ive ple we ose to age ral trs rth of ges in a gle ial to ate an le; as a gle ord lus aps to a gle ial his is a ral ice .
any her ons are ble , ver .
we uld ead ave sed ach ual tr hin a ial as an ple by elf , or ged any als ith rds ing to the ame ory nto a gle ple .
one is not ted to ing els as res .
we uld use the age of ral els in one roi as a gle ure ( lly , the roi mes the ure ) or use els at a lar ime int in a ial .
the ter is sed in ( 123 ) in a ion ere hat hes the ion ing ing of ous and ous ces is the ime rse of ion in ous els ive in oth ons .
her ity is to ake ing les tly rom the ion nal and ead do it rom ion ent ges , if ach ass can be ied ith a sor .
the ion of hat to use as ass els nds on the ses of the her , but we ote hat one is not ted to ing uli ses .
one uld lso use ect ses or ons in ace of a lus ( e . g .
did the ect get his ght or ong ? ) .
a rly ive ple of his is the udy ( 123 ) , ere the ion is of ich of two ble ges a ect rts ing in a lar lry ion .
in ing les , ere is an ant deo ted ith the ber of les ced .
his is the deo een ing any isy les ( e . g .
one per ial ) or wer , ner nes ( e . g .
one of ach ass per run ) , as a ult of ing ges in the ame ass .
ugh ere is no ard and ast ber of les ary to ain a ier , ing ore is lly ter , to the ree hat the ier can see ugh the ise ent ( eas ing tes oth ise and ral ity of ive ion in the les ing to a ass ) .
ing ore les lps in the ing set ide in hat ome of the ers we der ire a ain ber of les to ain ood tes of eir ers .
ely , ere are ome ers hat are rly ble for a ion ith ery few les , and we uss his at ter gth in ion 123 .
rom the est set int , ing ore est les ses the wer of the est for nce of the acy ned .
in ion 123 we ill uce oss - ion , a ure hat kes ery ent use of les for oth ing and ing .
one sue to be ant of is the ity of ing the ame ber of les in ach ass .
hen his is not the ase a ier ing thm may end to cus on the ost ous ass , to the ent of the rs; his ill lso ect the ion of an acy ult ( e . g .
23% acy may not be ery ood in a ion ere 123 of 123 les ong to one ass and 123 of 123 to the her , if it ans the ier ply cts the ost ous ass by ult ) .
his nce een ses can be ved by ing nly a set of the les in the ost ous ass , ing the ure for ous ets and ing
ote hat ing ive ges as ual ing les uld be ded , as the ong ral ion in the nal ill lly ure ose les are not ent .
ely , it lso ans hat ing ral ery lar les ill not ing in uch new ion .
his oes not bar us rom ing ive ges in the est set , ing on the ose ( see ion 123 for an ple ere ing les ome rom ock ata and est les rom ent - ted ata ) .
non - ent est les not , ver , be sed for the nce est bed ier ( the ial ion ome is the sum of the lts of ent lli als ) .
ven hat ere are lly any ore res han les , it is ten ous to uce the ber of res red to cus on a set of lar st; his is led ure ion .
for nce , if ing els as res , we may ust ant the els in a lar ion of est ( roi ) or eir ues at a lar int in a ial .
the ial sue to eep in ind is hat the ice of res at his age ust not end on the els hat ill be sed to ain a ier .
to see why , ine a ion ere we are ted in ing the ion of a lus ing .
it is ble to ict the els red to ose in ual tex , ted lly .
it is lso ble to ict hem her to ose ing ome ity ing ask als ive to a ine .
hat is not ble to ect els hat ear to ish one ion rom her in the ire set .
the son for his is hat it is a tle orm of ing the est set ion ect the ing of the ier in the ing set , and it ads to tic acy tes .
ing at the els for the ire set is mes led ing , ote hat his oes not ean hat the ass els not be sed at all in ure ion .
hey can be sed nce the ata ave een ded nto ing and est ets , ing ely the ing set , and we uss all cal cts of ing it in ion 123 . 123
an ive ath to ing the ber of res a ier has to der is ity ion ing a hod uch as lar lue ion / pal ent sis ( 123 ) or ent com - nts sis ( 123 ) on the ire set rix ( ows are les , mns are res ) .
the ity een ese ods is hat hey orm the nal ure ace ( e . g .
els ) nto a new , low - nal ure ace , ing a new set rix ith the ame ber of ows and a all ber of mns .
his is ays rth ing and a ary tep for lar ers , as we ill see in ion 123 , but not at all eed to ove lts , lly use ost ity ion ues ore ass els in eir ria ( ugh see vdm ( 123 ) and pls ( 123 ) ) .
a nal sue to der in the ion of les is hat of ing .
by his we do not ean the ual ing of ata , e . g .
ion ion or ing , a pic red in eat pth in ( 123 ) .
we ean , her , hat one on the les , red as a rix ith n ows ( ere ach row is an ple ) and v mns ( res ) .
in the ple udy , we zed ach ple ( row ) to ave ean 123 and ard ion 123
the dea in his ase is to uce the ect of rge , age - ide nal ges .
her ity uld be to zed ach ure ( umn ) to ave ean 123 and ard ion 123 , her oss the ire ent or hin les ing rom the ame run .
his is rth ing if ere is a nce hat ome els ill ave uch der ion in nal ude han ers .
ugh a ear ier can in
ple ate for his to ome ree by ing the ent for ach xel , ere are ons ere it ill not and hus his ion ill elp .
our own nce sts her row or umn ion is lly ial and uld be ied in urn , eas ing hem may mes ave rse cts .
123 ing a ier
ier we ced the dea of a ier as a ion f hat kes an ple x and tes a ass bel ion y = f ( x ) .
the cic ind of ion ing rnt and the ons ilt nto it is hat hes the ous pes of ier .
in his ion we iew and ast the ers ost nly sed ith mri ata , as ell as the ors at ake in ing ich ind to use .
we ply uch nal ail in dix a .
the est ion ure is led est - our and it snt ven lve tly ing a ion ion .
ion of a est ple is one by ing the ing set ple hat is ost lar to it by ome ure ( e . g .
est ean nce , ing the ire ure tor ) and ing the bel of his est our to the est ple .
nts of his dea ude ing all the ing set les in ach ass nto a gle ass ype ple or ing the ity bel in the k - est urs ( k odd ) .
oth nts ize the ect of ise ( if the les of ent ses are all ely ose to ach her ) but can be ble to ing ome ion if ere is ual non - ise ity in the les in ach ass ( e . g .
les in one ass ome in two ers hat are ely lar to ach her ) .
eas est - our ion can ork ery ell if ere is a all ber of res , it ost ely ill not in a ion ere ere is a rge ber and nly a few are ive .
nce it is lly sed in ion ith ome orm of ure ion , as in ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) .
ers hat do arn an ual ion ide nto hat are led ive and ive els .
in the mer , a ion ion ith a ven ric orm is rnt tly rom the ing ata by ing its ers .
in the ter , hat is ned is lly a cal del hat uld ate an ple ing to a lar ass ( i . e .
it els the ons of ure ues nal on ple ass , p ( x|y = a ) and p ( x|y = b ) ) , ich is hen ted via yes ule to ify ( i . e .
lds p ( y = a|x ) and p ( y = b|x ) , and the ion is the ass for ich hat ity is est ) .
in the cal mri udy , we lly ave any ore res han es; if ing els in the ole ain as res , its not ual to ave a few ens of les and ens of nds of res ( or at ast a few eds , if ing ure ion as bed in ion 123 . 123 ) .
the ect of his is hat it ill lly be ble to nd a ion hat can ify the les in the ing set ell , out his ily ing hat it ill do ell in the est set ( for a ore led ion of the son why see ( 123 ) ) : his non is led ing 123
one way of ing to oid ing is to use as ple a ion as ble hat oes ell in the ing set .
the ost ral ice for a ple ion is to ave the ion end on a ear ion of the res hat can pen or ase the nce of ach one of hem , ust as ear ion .
to ake the dea of a ear ier ore ete , the ier is zed by a set of hts w and , for an ple x ith v res
xw = 123 + .
+ xv wv
the ier cts ass a if xw > 123 or ass b if xw < 123 ( ith ies ken mly ) .
one ice rty of ear ers , ond eir ity , is the act hat ach ure cts the ion ely via its ght and out ion ith her res , ing us a ure of its nce on hat ion .
we uss ays to use his , as ell as ome ats , in ion 123 .
a ore ric ion for his is ven in ure 123 , in a her ied two xel ain , ith ree les of ach ass ( ach ple is zed by the lue of the two els ) .
ing a ear ier is ent to ing a ine hat tes nts in the two ses as ell as ble , the ion ary .
les of ers hat arn his are tic ion ( lr ) and ear ort tor nes ( svm ) .
eas his ght eem ote rom the ive del dea ced ier , the ion ons of ian ive yes ( gnb ) and ers ear ant sis ( lda ) can be sed in his ner as ell , and hus rly ded in the ear ier ory .
ote hat ere are any ble ear nts hat tly ify the six ing les own in ure 123
the ous ers ave ent les for ing ong ese , ich ond to ent ons of ing nts as ell as ble .
der lso hat , ven for a cic ype of ier , ere may ill be any ble ngs of its ers hat ead to lly ood ons in the ing set .
the ess of ing the ure hat ets the ers to a ion ith ble ies all hts all , for nce is led
3an ple of his uld be to use a ery igh - ree ial to del nts in a ime ies ing rom a low - ree ial ith ded ise .
the ery igh - ree ial uld ely be rse at ing new nts han a low - ree
ear ant a
ear ant b
oss - ion old 123
oss - ion old 123
ure 123 : eft : ing a ear ier is ent to ing a ine hat tes les in the two ses ( ors in a 123 - xel ain ) as ell as ble .
ght : ing oss - ion ach of 123 ups of les kes a urn as the est set ile the est rve as the ing set .
ion .
oth the les and the way ion is one for the ous nds of ers are bed in dix a .
all his ngs us to the ion of ich ier to use , ich we ill mpt to wer sed on our nce and a lti - udy son of ers and ure ion ods ( 123 ) .
in ses ere ere are a rge ber of res ( e . g .
all the els in the tex ) , gnb is lly ior to lr and ear svm , as the ion in the ter rly lps igh own the ect of isy res hat are hly ted ith ach her .
the age tly ars if ing ure ion , nce gnb is a ful ier for res hat eed to be ted any mes , uch as ion sts , due to ing uch ter to ain han the ers .
lda eds to be sed her in ion ith eme ure ion or ith ity ion ( ( 123 ) ) , as ise ere are lly not ugh les to ate its nce rix bly .
if ing een lr and ear svm , hey are hly ent her han for the act hat the rst nds elf ore lly to ses ere ere are ore han two ses .
so far , and for the ake of ity , we ave sed ers in a ion ere les ong to one of two ses but , in ral , we ght ave ore ( ral ent lus ses , ect ses , etc ) .
ost of the ers bed ove ork out ion in a ple ass rio .
the one ion are the svm rs; ugh ass ons do ist , ost ges in ent use ire you to ate ral two ass ems ( e . g .
ach ass sus all the ers , or all irs of ses ) and ine hem to uce a way ion ion .
we ibe ome hes to ing his in dix a .
hat aid , ten the ect of est in a ple ass ion is not so uch the raw acy ( do we eve hat eds of pes of ect uli uld be ble sed on mri ion , for nce ? ) as ich ses can be hed rom ich ers , and how .
nce , it ght ake ore nse to der all irs of ses , ain and est a ier for ach ise ion and uce hat is led a ion rix , a ses ses rix ere try ( i , j ) ins the acy of the ion een ses i and j .
ten his als ups of ses hat are ard to ish rom ach her but hat are ble rom her oup ( e . g .
ral all ect uli sus mal and man ces ) .
ere are ore lex ers , uch as ear vms or ial ral rks , ich can let rac - ons een res and ear ons eof ive the on; we ill not uss hem at gth for two ain ons .
the rst is hat it is ear hat hey ide a ant age in cal nce ive to ear ers ( in ant ies or the lti - udy son in ( 123 ) ) .
in our ion his is ore a ion of the act hat the ber of les ble is so all han of the nce of ted ips een res .
the ond son is hat the hip een res and the ion mes der to ret ( ugh see ( 123 ) ich ves a ass omy rom the den yer ode ity in a ral ork , for nce ) .
his snt ean hat ese ers not be sed lly hen the ber of res is ler , in lar hen ing ion ing as sed in ion 123 .
we ibe ese ers and eir hip to ear ers in ore ail dix a .
123 ing and ing in oss - ion
in our ive ple we ded the set in two ves , one sed for ing and the her for ing .
as we ter sed , we uld ike to ain a ier ith as uch ata as le; dly , we not ain and est on the ame ata if the oal is ain a ful ate of the ers rue acy , i . e .
the ity hat it uld bel any ure est ple tly .
ore , ing ust a few les for ing ill not ead to a ood ate : it ill be ely ble , as ell as ned to a few ble ues .
ing the set in alf to ave ore est les , as we did in the ple udy , ans we ght be ing a uch rse ier han we lly uld ith ore ing les .
ely , ere is a ure hat ows us to ave our ake and eat ( ost ) all of it too . . .
the ure is led oss - ion .
in its ost eme ant , oss - ion ows ese eps :
ave one ple out , ain on the ing nes , ake a ion for his ple eat for ach ple in urn ute the acy of the ons ade for all the les
his ant is led ave - one - out oss - ion .
ugh ach ier ned is lly ent , one can ect hem to be lar and ict rly , nce hey are so uch ing ata .
nce we eat the acy ate ned in his ner as the ted acy of a ier ned on a set ith all but one ple , ing ( 123 ) .
ote his lso des a tly ive ate of the acy we ect if we ere to ain a ier ing all the ble les .
in ice , ing ach ple out can be lly ive use ead of a gle ier we are ing as any ers as ere are les .
one ise is a ure led a k - old oss - ion , ere k is the ber of rts nto ich the set is ed; mon ces are k = 123 or k = 123 , ing to ing out 23% or 23% of the les on ach old .
ely , mri ets are ten lly ded in a way hat ses all ese ues , be it in uns or chs hin a run ere all the ble ses or uli ear .
our ive set des lly nto six ups , ing to the six chs of uli in the nt; ach oup is sed in urn as the est set in oss - ion , ith the ing ups sed as the ing set ( on the ght of ure 123 ) .
nce we ise the der to ake age of ose ral ons at ast on a rst mpt , bly ing to a ner ain ion hat ill has the red ies if ore ing les are ded .
ide rom the ber of les eft out ere are her ant ons .
the rst is hat the ing ata in ach old ust ain les of all ses , as ise the ier for hat old ill not be ble to ict the ent nes .
as ned ier , ses uld be ced , i . e .
ave hly the ame ber of les .
ore , les hat are ted - by ing ose in ime , for nce - uld end up in the ame old .
ise , the ier may be ble to ict ely for est les ith a ted art in the ing set .
123 . 123 ure ion
in ion 123 we ced the dea of ure ion , in ons ere we ave ome a ori son for ing hem , e . g .
ing to est her els in a lar roi ave ion .
ure ion is ten med ary in der to ain ers in ins ere ets ave ery rge ers of res .
why ght it elp ? ely , the oal is to uce the tio of res to les ing the nce of ing as ell as to ing rid of ive res to let the ier cus on ive nes .
ost all the mri ing lts ted in the ure sed her ure ion or ome her orm of ity ion ( ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
ure ion in ral is too ast a pic to ach in eat ail ere , but a ful iew of oth ogy and the ust of ous hes is ven in ( ( 123 ) ) .
one ion ten ade is een ing / ing and per ods .
the mer ves ing the res by a ven ion - ach ure is red by elf , a bit ike a ate est of a xel - and ing the est in the ing .
the ter sts dly of ing new res by how uch act hey ave on the ier ven the res ady ted .
his can be one by dly ing and ing the ier in oss - ion hin the ing set .
ven the ten ive nal nse of per ods due to the rge ber of res we ill be ned ely ith ure ing ods .
ere are ral ric ods for ing ive res .
in lel , res in the mri ain are ten els and ere is a ire to be ble to ook for ain pes of xel our , e . g .
is a xel ery ive for one lar ion or ing een two ups of ons .
nce ost ant ers ort to ods hat raw rom oth ese ces , ich we ize low .
ote hat hod
ber of els
ble 123 : ion lts ing ach of ral ion ods ith her ous xed ers of els ( eft ) or ith the ber ned ing ted oss - ion ( ncv ) ide the ing set of ach old ( ght ) .
les are bed in rms of els and ons ( ses ) , for ity , but uld be ted for her nds of res :
ity - his hod cts els hat are ive in at ast one ion ive to a rol - ask ine , ing a xel as red by a t - est on the nce in ean ity vel een ion
acy - his hod res a xel by how ely a ian ian ier can ict the ion of ach ple in the ing set , sed nly on the xel .
it oes a oss - ion hin the ing set for the xel and the acy is the els ore .
ght acy - the ame as acy , but ead of ing the ata rom a gle xel ( gnb ier ith one ure ) we use the ata rom the xel and its ely ent urs in ree ons ( a ier ith up to 123 res , ier can be gnb , lda or svm ) .
ova - his hod oks for els ere ere are ble ces in ean lue oss ons
a is ent rom b c d , or ab rom cd , etc ) , as red by an ova .
ity - his hod cks els hat act to the ous ons tly oss oss - ion ups in the ing set ( e . g .
if the ean lue in a is ess han b and ter han c , is his ted in
ise ils of how ese ods can be ted and her ves are ded in dix b .
ote hat the ods ove are , ith ion of ght acy , ate .
ere are ing lts hat how hat , in ome ces , ate ure ion can ork ter , ich are sed in ion 123
lly , the ods ted ove ide ngs of ls; one ght ill ave to ide on how any of the top - ked els to use rom the ing for ach hod .
for ods hat are sed on a cal ion ( e . g .
t - sts of ion ) , it is mon to use a ple son ion uch as oni or lse ery ate ( 123 ) and eep ust the res med ant at a ven vel .
his is ble but tic if few or no els are ant ( ble ven the unt of ise and ery all ple zes ) or the ore ced by the hod oes not map to a p - lue ( ugh ric ods can ill be sed to ain one , see dix c ) .
123 . 123 ure ion and oss - ion
up ill now we ave sed ure ion as a pic by elf .
ten , ver , ure ion is sed in ion ith oss - ion and his ils lar ons .
the rst is hat ion ust pen on the ing set .
as ned ier , for ery old in oss - ion we ave a ent ing set and hus res ave to be ted ely for ach old .
a ond son is hat , as ned ier , the ods sed in ice ank res and we ill ave to ide how any to use , ess the hod des a ale ( e . g .
the ber of els ere a t - est is ant at a ain vel ) .
a cal ach is to not mit to a cic ber , but to ead uce a ure ing by ach hod for ach old .
his can hen be sed to ain , for ach hod , an acy ore ing ach of the ers of els red ( e . g .
top 123 , top 123 , top 123 , etc ) .
the end uct is a ods els ble of acy lts , uch as ble 123 ( eft ) for our
if ure ion uld be one ior to oss - ion ( e . g .
by ing els rom one roi , or by ome her hod hat ids ing the els of the est les ) , the ole ure can be run as if the set ned nly the ted res .
in his and the ase ere the hod nes the ber of res , the end uct is a ods 123 tor of acy lts .
an ive to ing all ers of els is to let the ing set in ach oss - ion est ich ber to ick .
to do his , we can run a ted oss - ion ( ncv ) ide the ing set .
der our ive ple , ich had 123 ups of les sed on chs .
ing the rst oss - ion old ,
we ted on oup 123 ded ain on ups 123 - 123
ing a ted oss - ion ans ing the oss - ion ure bed ove ide ups 123 - 123 by ing on 123 and ing on 123 - 123 , hen ing on 123 ile ing on 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , etc .
the ult for his ing set is , ain , ods els ble of lts .
for ach hod , his ble ill eld the ber of els at ich the acy is st; his is the ber hat ill be ect rom the ing ced rom ups 123 - 123
the end uct is a ods 123 tor of acy lts , as own in ble 123 ( ght ) for our ple set .
123 ing lts
the son ing a ier on mri ata is ned ith ing hat a ble of est can be ded rom it , i . e .
a ier can be ned ose rue acy is ter han hat of a ier ing at dom .
a ant ult is hus one ere one can ect the ull sis hat ere is no ion out the ble of est .
ing nce is lly one by ing how ble a ion lts uld be ere the ull sis to be rue ( his ity is led a p - lue ) .
the acy on the est set is an ate of the rue acy of his ier .
lly , his is the ity hat it ill tly bel a new ple awn at dom rom the ame ion hat the her les ame om; it can lso be wed as the acy one uld get if one had an ite ber of les in the est set .
nce , how ood an ate it is nds on the ize of the est set .
it is an sed ate use the est les ave not een een by the ier ing ing .
in his ion the ity of ing the ult der his ull sis is asy to ate .
it can be wed as the ome of ing a oin for ach of the les to be ied , ith the ins ias ing the ity of ing an ple tly by nce ( 23% in a two ass lem , 23% in a our ass lem , etc ) .
hus , the p - lue der his ull sis of k tly led est les is , if we ene x to be the ber of tly led les , ply p ( x k ) der a ial ion ith n als and ity of ess 123 ( two ass ) , 123 ( our ass ) , tc; if the p - lue is low a ain old ( lly 123 or 123 ) the ult ill be red ant .
the acy ate ned ugh oss - ion is a ion of lts ced by ers ned on tly ing ing ets , nce we ill eat hat ate as if it ame rom a gle ier , ing mon ice ( 123 ) .
his ows us to est it in tly the ame way .
ing the nce est to ple , ent lts is ard , in hat one can ply ort to a ple son ion ion and ust the nce old gly .
his is the ion we ave hen we der the ted oss - ion ( ncv ) lts , as ach one is the uct of ing a ier ing els ted ith a ent hod .
if , ead , we are ust ing a ods els ble of lts , we uld use the ame ach to sly est all the lts in the ble .
his uld , ver , be ive , in hat the lts for a ven hod are ted to ome nt; his ows rom the act hat the alf the els sed by the ier sed on the top 123 els are lso sed by the one sed on the top 123 , say .
a mon dea to eal ith his sue is to ect the mum ult ong all ose ned ing a lar ion hod ( a ble row ) ; it is ten ied by the ake of ing hat mum ult for nce in the way bed .
to see why his can be a lem , der a ion ere the ers are ing ent ers of res and , in ach ase , ave a rue acy ( ver the ing ple ion ) of 123 .
it is ble ven in his ion hat , at ast for one ber of res , the lly ved acy ill be rly gh; his mes ore ely the ler the set is .
if we are ust ing the est ber of res to be the one at ich the mum acy is ned , we uld ick his ult and bly eem it ant .
nce one ity is to ort the ire ble and the ber of les sed , and ect for all of hem , at the isk of ing ive .
the her ity is to ort the mum acy ult and est it tly ing a ion est , as ows .
ing ere is no ass ion in the ata , the els can be ted out ing the ted acy ing a ven ier and ber of res ( his uld be nce vel ) .
his is tly the ind of ion ere one can use a ion est , by ing the ire ess of ing a ult ble rom a set ith ted els ( see ( 123 ) , ich ews the use of ion sts in ion ith one nal ing ion , and lso dix c for ore ils ) .
ver any ons his lds a ple of acy lts for ach ell in the ble der the ull sis but lso , ore tly , for any ved res uch as the mum of ach ble row .
the p - lue der the ull sis for ach try of the nal ult ble is the ion of the ing ple hat is ter han or ual to it , and his ies to the mum as ell .
the ain lem of ing to his ach is its nal
123 ons of ern ion
we ave een ing a ier - sed sis as a nce of ges ith ces at ach age .
one ice hat we ave not yet tly sed is aps the ost ant : the ice of the ial tic ion to be red .
our cus so far has een on the use of ers for ern ion .
ere , the sic ion ing sed is ply her mri ata rry ion out a ven ble of est .
ing the wer to his ion is of est , for ple , in cal sis or lie ion ( 123 ) .
we can iew nal ate ods as ing his ion on a xel by xel or roi by roi sis .
ers ing to the ion an ase in ity of ion , oth by ing ion oss any els but lso by ing nts on ial ity or the eed for xel ses to be lar .
in ion to the ion of her mri ata rry ass ion , ere are at ast two her sic ons to ich ers can be ied , ely ere or hen is ass ion ted ( ern ion ) , how is ass ion ded and how oes its ing ate to own ips een uli ( ern ion ) .
his ion nes the ent to ich ons ese ons can be led ing the ery of ear ers and ure ion , as ell as the ons and ats .
for the est of the ion we ill ume res are els , as it ill ify ion .
123 ern ion
nce it has een hed hat ass ion is ent in a set , one may go on to ask ere in the ain his ion des .
a ral ach for ing his is to ask ich els ute ost gly and bly to the ers ess .
ere are two cts to his : ing ich els are ing ted and lso how eir ght cts the ier ion .
hen oss - ion is ing sed , a lar xel ion hod can and ery ely ill ank ent els at the top rom old to old .
it may ome as a ise hat , for any ets , the lap een the set of els ted in all lds sus the set ted in an ual old is rly all ( een 123 123 and 123 is cal ) ven if ing a ely rge ion of the tal ber of els ( 123 ) .
his is not a lem , lly , it ust cts the act hat ver els are ted ain ent ion .
ere ght be ncy , in hat any els ode the ame ngs and a few get ked in ach old , and ere ght be a all ary set , ent in all lds .
one ble egy for ing the mal set of els ing ion uld be to art rom the nes ent in all or ost all lds and use hem as eds in a ing thm hat uld nd els ith lar nse les oss les .
a ted sue is her the ion ied by els is the ame in the ets ied by ous ion ods .
ere are two ays of ing his sue : one is to ook at lap in ted ets , now een ods , and the her to der her a ven ier ing ent xel ets rms tly ( in lar , her it kes ent ion ors ) .
for ems ith two ses , ost ion ria ill nd lar els , as ere ent any ays hat a xel uld ond tly to the two ses .
in ass ems lts est ere are ent pes of xel our and the ous xel ion ods bed ier can ick on ent pes ( 123 ) .
nce , if we ish to use ier ion ess as an ion hat the xel set it ses ins ive els , it is ise to der ent ion ds; it is lso a ood dea to ine her ere is any lap een the xel ets ted in all lds by ach hod .
ven a set of els , a ent ion is ich of ose els ost gly ect ier ons .
the use of ear ers kes it ely ple to wer his ion , as ach xel cts the ion nly ugh the ude of its ght , and not ugh the ion ith her els .
dix a ins how to get ese hts for the ous ear ers , as ell as for est our ers ith lar nce res ( ugh in his ase the hts are est ple cic , her han the ame for any ple ) , and lso ows hat a cal age of xel hts oks ike .
ote hat you can ake his her by ing the hts by the age ple of ach ass , ing you ass - cic ges .
a cal sue if ing oss - ion is hat , ain , we ave a ent set of els and hus a ent ier in ach old .
a tic ach is to oup all the els hat ere ted in at ast one of the lds and run the oss - ion ain on hat et; if the acy is ble to hat was ned ith the nal oss - ion , the ier hts can be ged oss lds and red .
ely , if the acy ing all the els ble is igh ore mon in ems ith few ses - we can ust der the hts ver all ose els .
one int to be are ing ear ers is hat the ion for lr or ear vms ill use the hts on ted els to go own lly to the ber of ted els .
his is ial hen the ion is tly ven by a ise rce and is the son why , in ral , oth pes of ier orm gnb if all els are sed ( 123 ) ( ugh not if led ith xel ion ) .
ver , it is ite
ier acy at ach xel ing ous ers
ier hts for a ear svm ned on the ire age
ure 123 : top : son of acy aps ned ith 123 - old oss - ion .
ach row ins ght ces rom an acy map , ior to ior , top of ach ice is ior .
the ers sed in ach row are gle xel gnb and ius 123 ood ght gnb , lda and ear svm .
on top of ach ice is the ber of els for ich acy was med ant ing fdr q = 123 , ich are ted in ark red .
tom : ier hts for a ear svm ier ned on the ire age .
ble hat ere ill be els hat ute to the ion but ose hts are ler han ose of her els ing els .
ote hat , in ion to ing ere ass ion is ent , we can lso ask hen ses are ted ral as sed to ial ion .
his sed ess nly in the ure and ars in two ent ses .
the rst is to her ect a ure ace ing to els at all ime nts in a ial or ply ict the ime nts ata is ted rom , as in ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) .
a ore ted ach is sed in ( 123 ) , ere ers are ned on ata ere ses are nly ted een cks and hen yed as ors of nce of ass - cic rns in ent - ted est ata .
the ues ned ake ion of ion to cic els ess ard han one ght ish and , ore , the use of ear ers ans hat no ear ips een els can be ned .
ere is , ver , an ive ach to ing the ion ion , ion - sed nal ain ing ( 123 ) , ich can ate ese ems and lso ess ion ons to ome ent .
a ral ion of his dea can be zed as ing ers on any all xel ets ich , put her , ver the ole ain .
one ral ate for his is to ain a nct ser for ach xel , ing nly the els lly ent to it .
his is kin to ing a ght on ery xel ood in ion , and is ten red to as ing ght ers .
mon nts for the ier are ons of ian ers ( gnb , lda ) or ear svm ( the nal per sed the bis nce , ich is art of the ate ian ion in lda ) .
the ult is a ain map ere , for ery xel , we ave the oss - ion acy of a ier ned on the ood ing it ( lly , the 123 urs in 23d , ugh a der ius uld be red ) .
his acy can be ted nto a p - lue ing the cal hod in ion ? ? or by ing a ion est as bed in ion 123 .
in her ase , we ill ain a p - lue map hat can be ded ing a ple son ion ion , to ify xel ods of ant acy .
we ain ave a ice of ich ier to use , ugh in his ase the eos are ent .
ven the ely all ber of els in a ood , it is now ble to ain ore lex ers .
lda is the rst ous ice , in hat a nce rix of els res ips een hem , but one uld lso mpt a ear ier if ore lex ips are zed .
his ill bly be ore ous if ere are ore han two ses , ugh ith the eat hat it is ely hat ion ing all the ses rom ach her can be und in a all ion .
we ide a son of gle xel gnb and ght gnb , lda and ear svm in ure 123 for our ive udy .
eas ere are ing ies in the ion of els med tly ive , ere are lso ing ces een the aps ich we uss in dix b .
for nce , the ure lso des the hts of a ear svm ier on ach xel .
123 ern ion
ond ing her and ere ass ion is ted , ers can lso be sed to wer the ion of how ses are ted in the ain .
it is aps ere hat ers and her ine ing ods and to be of ter lue .
the ork on ion ing in the ous ion can lso be red rom the int of iew of ern ion .
ach ood ier pts to nd ips een the els in a all set hat ain ion .
as aid ier , ven the all ber of els , we ave the ity of ing ear ers to arn rly lex ips .
but ust how lex uld one ect ese ips to be ? one eme in the nge of ers is the ion in ( 123 ) , ere els are ely ore ive to one ass of lus han her , and hus do not ect an ing of ose uli .
ere is no age in ing a ier hat oes ore han igh a ote of ach xel to ool ion .
the her eme is hat ( 123 ) lls a ial ode : the ion is in the lex ion of xel ies in ent ses .
in een lie ons ere els ave ery ive ses ( e . g .
ffa or ppa in ( 123 ) ) or els are ive for ups of ses ( e . g .
tic ory ses hat ond to ate ngs sus ose hat do not ) .
hus far , we ose to ibe the ork one ing to ear ers or ion ing , oth use it is ple and a ood ing int to ess ion ons .
ere are , ver , ral ent ers hat kle his ind of ion in ore ted ays hat ude a ied iew , and nce we ill ver hem nly iey .
the mon nts een hem are the ish to ond ips een lus ith ose in mri ata , her ely and lly ing ers to ect ain ion , uch as uch as els of ron ons our or ics ion of the lus ace .
on the rst amp , ( 123 ) ows hat a ral ork ned to ish les of ght tic ies rns a ion on its den yer hat res a ble omy of the ses and ( 123 ) ,
on the ame set , hat the ity to ish the ory uli tes ith the ity of the ier to ish the ing ses .
( 123 ) ows hat hat the ity rix of tic uli nds to the ity rix of rns of ion ile ing hem and ( 123 ) tes ual ity of uli to the ure of eir ral ion .
( 123 ) ces den ess els , a que to ify ple ive ses ent sly in the ain ith ing ial ion , ing age of ain ion and ass els to ain eir sal ing .
lly , two ent ies age ain dge to ict mri ion for new uli , ing ich can be sed to ify by ing the ted ion to the ion of uli in the ing ( 123 ) oes his for ual uli , ing a del of the ses of ron ons in the ual tex and ing the mri nal rom the del ons for ach xel .
( 123 ) rns a del hat cts mri ion for new rds , sed on eir ity in a ace of tic res to rds for ich mri ion is own .
in his per we ave bed the ous ges in a ine ing ier sis of mri ata .
ide rom ing the ces ble at ach sis age , eir ons and the cal ors ing hem , we red the use of his ind of sis to wer ree pes of tic ion .
ese are is ere ion out a ble of est ( ern ion ) , ere is the ion ( ern ion ) and how is hat ion ded ( ern ion ) .
we lly sed on ear ers and the ion and ion ons , as ese are oth ter ood and the nes ost ers are ely to ant to wer rst .
ace nts ant hat ome ant cal ons had to be eft out of the ain ext .
ous ces are ded in a ger ion of his per ble at ttp : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ ira / rch . tml .
are for ing a ier sis ( the ton lti - xel ern sis box ) can be und at ttp : / / www . bmb . ton . edu / vpa , her ith als and a ery ive ine ity .
we are ell are hat the ent ier of rch is in ern ion , and ded ers to hat we ink ome of the ost ght - ing ork in his rea .
we are ent hat , ess of hat ess may ome , it ill ave ine ing ods at its oot , ier - sed or ise .
