ver the ast 123 ars the udy of ine ing has own rom the rts of a ful of ter en - ers ing her ers uld arn to lay mes , and a eld of ics hat ely red nal ons , to a oad ine hat has ced tal cal - nal ies of ing ses , has ned ing hms hat are ely sed in ial sys - ems for ech ion , ter ion , and a ety of her sks , and has pun off an try in ata ing to ver den ies in the ing mes of ine ata .
his ent des a ief and nal iew of the ine hat has ged as ine ing , the tal ons it ses , its hip to her ces and ety , and ere it ght be ded .
rds : ine ing
123 ing ons
a tic eld is est ned by the ral ion it ies .
the eld of ine ing eks to wer the ion
how can we ild ter ems hat lly ove ith nce , and hat are the tal aws hat ern all ing ses ?
his ion ers a oad nge of ing sks , uch as how to ign ous ile ots hat arn to ate rom eir own nce , how to ata ine cal cal rds to arn ich ure nts ill ond est to ich nts , and how to ild rch nes hat lly ize to eir ers sts .
to be ore ise , we say hat a ine rns ith ect to a tic - lar ask t , nce ric p , and ype of nce e , if the tem bly ves its nce p at ask t , ing nce e .
ing on how we ify t , p , and e , the ing ask ght lso be led by mes uch as ata ing , ous ery , ase ing , ing by
ine ing is a ral wth of the ion of ter nce and ics .
we ght say the ing ion of ter nce is how can we ild nes hat lve ems , and ich ems are tly ble / ble ? the ion hat ely nes ics is hat can be red rom ata lus a set of ing ons , ith hat ity ? the ing ion for ine ing lds on oth , but it is a nct ion .
eas ter nce has sed ily on how to lly ram ers , ine ing ses on the ion of how to get ers to ram ves ( rom nce lus ome ial ure ) .
eas tis - ics has sed ily on hat ons can be red rom ata , ine ing tes nal ons out hat nal res and hms can be sed to ost ely ure , ore , dex , eve and rge ese ata , how ple ing sks can be ted in a ger tem , and ons of nal ity .
a ird eld ose ing ion is ely ted to ine ing is the udy of man and mal ing in ogy , nce , and ted lds .
the ons of how ers can arn and how als arn ost bly ave hly ned ers .
to ate , ver , the hts ine ing has ned rom ies of man ing are uch ker han ose it has ned rom ics and ter nce , due ily to the eak ate of our ing of man ing .
ess , the rgy een ies of ine and man ing is ing , ith ine ing hms uch as ral nce ing now ing ted as ons for ral als ved in ing als .
ver the ing ars it is ble to ect the rgy een ies of man ing and ine ing to row lly , as hey are ose ors in the ape of ore tic ons .
her lds , rom ogy to ics to rol ory lso ave a ore est in the ion of how ems can lly apt or ize to eir ent , and ine ing ill ely ave an ing nge of eas ith ese lds ver the ing ars .
for ple , ics is ted in ons uch as how ted ons of elf - ted als may orm a tem ( ket ) hat rns ces ing to eto - mal ons for the est mon ood .
and rol ory , lly ive rol ory , is ted in ons uch as how a rvo - rol tem can ove its rol egy ugh nce .
gly , the cal els for ion in ese her lds are hat ent rom ose nly sed in ine ing , ing ant ial for oss - ion of els and ies .
the ing ons uss the ate of the art of ine ing , a ple of ful ica -
ons , and a ple of pen rch ons .
123 ate of ine ing
ere we ibe ome of the ess in ine ing , as ell as pen rch ons .
123 ion ses
one ure of ess in ine ing is its ant eal - rld ons , uch as ose ted low .
ugh we now ake any of ese ons for ted , it is rth ing hat as ate as 123 ere ere ost no ial ons of ine ing .
ech ion .
tly ble ial ems for ech ion all use ine ing in one ion or her to ain the tem to ize ech .
the son is ple : the ech ion acy is ter if one ins the tem , han if one pts to ram it by and .
in act , any ial ech ion ems lve two nct ing ses : one ore the are is ped ( ing the ral tem in a ker - ent ion ) , and a ond ase ter the ser ses the are ( to eve ter acy by ing in a
ter ion .
any ent ion ems , rom ace ion ems , to ems hat uto - lly ify ope ges of lls , are ped ing ine ing , ain use the ing ems are ore ate han and - ted ams .
one ive - ale ion of ter ion ned ing ine ing is its use by the us ost fce to lly ort ers ing ten ses .
ver 23% of ten ail in the us is ted uto - lly , ing ing sis are ned to ery igh acy ing ine ing ver a ery rge ata set .
bio - nce .
a ety of ent rts to ect and ack ase aks now use ma - ine ing .
for ple , the ods ect ves eal - ime ion of ons rts to ncy oms oss ern nia , and the use of ine ing are to arn the ole of cal ons so hat it can ect ous rns of oms and eir aph - cal ion .
ent ork ves ing in a ich set of nal ata , uch as ail ses of ver - the - ter nes to ase the ion ow nto the tem , her ing the eed for ted ing ods ven his ven ore lex ata set .
bot rol .
ine ing ods ave een lly sed in a ber of bot ems .
for ple , ral ers ave ted the use of ine ing to ire rol ies for ble ter ght and ter ics .
the ent rpa - red eti - ion ing a bot ing sly for ver 123 les in the ert was won by a bot hat sed ine ing to ene its ity to ect ant cts ( ing elf rom elf - ted ata ing of ain een lly in the nce , and een ter up ose ) .
ing cal ces .
any ata - ive ces now ake use of ine ing ods to aid in the tic ery ess .
ine ing is ing sed to arn els of ene ion in the ell rom igh - put ata , to ver ual cal cts
rom ive ata ted by the oan sky vey , and to ize the lex rns of ain ion hat ate ent ive tes of ple in mri ers .
ine ing ods are ing the ice of any ata - ive cal ces , and any of ese ces now old ops on ine ing as art of eir lds ces .
123 ace of ine ing hin ter nce
ven his ple of ons , hat can we fer in ral out the ure ole of ine ing in the eld of ter ons ? one way to ink out his is to ine the ace of all are ons , and to ize the ove ons est a che hin his ace ere ine ing has a ial ole to lay .
in lar , ine ing ods are ady the est ods ble for ing lar pes of are , in ons ere :
the ion is too lex for ple to lly ign the thm .
for ple , are for sor - ase ion sks , uch as ech ion and ter ion , all nto his ory .
all of us can ily bel ich phs ain a ure of our her , but one of us can ite own an thm to orm his ask .
ere ine ing is the are ent hod of ice ply use it is ely asy to ect led ing ata , and ely ive to try ing own a ful thm .
the ion res hat the are ize to its nal ent ter it is ded .
one ple of his is ech ion ems hat ize to the ser who ses the are .
ine ing ere des the ism for ion .
are ons hat ize to ers are ing dly - e . g . , res hat ize to our ing fer - ces , or ail ers hat ize to our lar ion of pam .
his ine ing che hin the are rld is ing dly .
wed his way , ine ing ods lay a key ole in the rld of ter nce , hin an ant and ing che .
ile ere ill ain are ons ere ine ing may ver be ful ( e . g . , to ite rix ion ams ) , the che ere it ill be sed is ing dly as ons row in ity , as the and ows for elf - ing are , as ers ain ess to ore ata , and as we lop gly ive ine ing hms .
ond its ous ole as a hod for are ent , ine ing is lso ely to elp ape our iew of ter nce ore lly .
by ing the ion rom how to ram ers to how to low hem to ram ves , ine ing zes the ign of elf - ing ems hat elf - ose and elf - air , and on hes hat del eir ers , and the ake age of the ady eam of ata ing ugh the ram her han ply ing it .
rly , ine ing ill elp ape the eld of ics , by ing a nal ive to the ore , and ing ues uch as ver - ing ing .
of rse oth ter nce and ics ill lso elp ape ine ing as hey ess and ide new eas to nge the way we iew
123 ome ent rch ons
as the ove ons est , ial ess has ady een ade in the ent of ma - ine ing hms and eir ing ory .
for ple , we now ave a ety of hms for sed ing of ion and ion ns; hat is , for ing ome lly own
ion f : x y ven a set of led ing les ( ( cid : 123 ) xi , yi ( cid : 123 ) ) of uts xi and uts yi = f ( xi ) .
for ple , in ing an age ion ram xi may be a gle age , and yi the bel of the ect in the age .
hms rom ort tor nes , to ian ers , to tic lgo - hms may be sed to ate the ion f rom the ata .
we lso ave a ful ody of ory hat lps ize how ely one uld ect to arn the ion f , ing on the ber of led ing les ble , ons out the ure of the ata ( e . g . , her the les are awn tly ) , and ies of the ing thm uch as the ity of the set of ses it ers .
of rse ere are any her pes of ing ems and ted hms and heo - ies , ing sed ing ( e . g . , ter nes sed on eir ime ies ion rns ) , aly ion ( e . g . , nd ual rns of ncy oom ons ) , ent ing ( e . g . , arn to ick ood ess ves , ere the nly ing ata is the nal win / ose ome of the ame ter ing any ves ) , ata ing ( e . g . , nd a all set of ors hat can be ned to uct a nce of igh - nal ain ges ) , etc .
the eld is ing ard in any ons , ing a ety of pes of ing sks , and
ing a ety of ing ory .
ere is a ple of ent rch ons :
can led ata be ful for sed ing ? sed ing ves ing ome ion f : x y ven a set of led ing les ( ( cid : 123 ) xi , yi ( cid : 123 ) ) .
we uld lly uce the ost of sed ing if we uld ake use of led ata as ell ( e . g . , ges hat are led ) .
are ere ons ere led ata can be eed to ove the ted ing acy ? ing , the wer is yes , for ral ial ses of ing ems hat sfy nal ons .
ese ude cal ems uch as ing to ify web ges or pam .
ion of new hms and new ses of ems ere led ata is bly ful is an ive rea of ent rch .
how can we fer hat is ned for one ask to ove ing in her ted sks ? .
ote the ove ion of sed ing ves ing a gle ion f .
in any cal ems we ght ike to arn a ily of ted ons ( e . g . , a sis ion for nts in new ork als , and one for nts in kyo als ) .
ugh we ect the sis ion to be hat ent in the two ses , we lso ect ome ies .
ods uch as cal ian hes ide one way to kle his lem , by ing the ing ers of the ny ion and the kyo ion are lar ior ies , but ing the ata rom ach tal to ide ese ors as ate .
the ion mes ore tle hen the fer een ons is ore lex e . g . . , a bot ing oth a ext - ate ion and a ion to ose rol ons uld be ble to arn ter by ing age of the cal hip een ese two pes of ned ion .
hat is the hip een ent ing hms , and ich uld be sed hen ? .
any ent ing hms ave een sed and ted lly in ent ap - ion ins .
one eme of rch is to lop a cal ing of the ips ong ese hms , and of hen it is ate to use ach .
for ple , two hms for sed ing , tic ion and the ive yes ier , ave tly on any ata ets , but can be ved to be ent hen ied to ain pes of ata ets ( i . e . , hen the ing ons of ive yes are sed , and as the ber of ing les ap - hes ity ) .
his ing sts , for ple , hat ive yes uld be red if ata is rse but one is ent of the ing ons .
ore lly , the cal
ion of ing hms , eir nce ies , and eir ive ths and ses ins a jor rch pic .
for ers hat ely ect eir own ing ata , hat is the est egy ? ine a ile bot ged ith the ask of ing to nd its ers ers ere in the use , and ine hat it is wed to ice ing the day , by ing the ers rom ent nts of its ice , and ing the ers to ent ons ith ent ing ons .
hat is the ost ent ing egy for ely ing new ata as its ing eds ? a ond ple of his lem ves rug ing ere one hes to arn the rug ess ile ing the ure of nts to ble own ide cts .
his is a art of a ore oad rch ust nto ing ems hat ake ore ive rol ver the ing ing , her han ely ing ata ted by ers .
to hat ree can we ave oth ata acy and the ets of ata ing ? ere are any ene - ial ses of ine ing , uch as ing a cal sis tem on ata rom all als in the rld , ich are not ing ued ely use of acy ons .
ugh at rst it ght eem hat we ust ose een acy and the ets of ata ing , in act we ght be ble to ave oth in ome ses .
for ple , her han ing als to ice acy and ass und eir ent rds to a ral ata ory , we ght ead ass und a ing thm to the als , ing ach to run it der ain ons , hen ass it ong to the ext tal .
his is an ive rch rea , ing oth on ast cal ork on ata ure and on ore ent hic hes .
123 . 123 ger erm rch ons
the ove rch ons are ady ing lly ued by ers in the eld .
it is lso ing to der ger erm rch ons .
low are ome nal rch ics ich i eel old the ial to tly nge the ace of ine ing ver the ing ade .
can we ild ver - ing ers ? the ast ity of ine ing ork to ate ves run - ing ams on lar ata ets , hen ing the ner ide and ing the ult .
in ast , ing in ans and her als is an ing ess in ich the ent rns any ent ies , ten in a ced lum , and ses ese ent ned cts and ies in a hly tic ion .
why not ild ine ers hat arn in his ame ive way , ing gly ent her han ing at ome eau ? for ple , a bot in the ame fce ing for ths or ars uld arn a ety of ies , ing ith ler sks ( e . g . , how to ize cts in hat ark end of the way ) , to ore lex ems hat ild on ous ing ( e . g . , ere to ook rst to nd the ing ing ner ) .
rly , a ram to arn to ead the web ght arn a ded set of ies ing ith ler bil - ies uch as ing to ize mes of ple and ces , and ing to ing lex nal ion ead oss ple ces and web ges .
a key rch sue ere is elf - sed ing and ing an ate ded lum .
can ine ing ies and hms elp ain man ing ? tly , ies and hms rom ine ing ave een und ant to ing cts of man and mal ing .
for ple , ent ing hms and ies ict gly
ell the ral ity of gic ons in als ing ard - sed ing .
and ma - ine ing hms for ing rse ons of lly ing ges ict gly ell the pes of ual res und in the rly ual tex of als .
ver , the - ies of mal ing lve ons hat ave not yet een red in ine ing , uch as the ole of ion , ear , ncy , ing , and ing ver ple ime les .
ere is a ich ity for oss ion ere , an ity to lop a ral ory of ing ses ing als as ell as nes , and ial ons for ved ies for ing nts .
can we ign ing ges ing ine ing ves ? can a new gen - ion of ter ing ges tly ort ing ams hat arn ? in any ent ine ing ons , ard ine ing hms are ted ith and - ded are nto a nal ion ram .
why not ign a new ter ing lan - age hat rts ing ams in ich ome nes are and - ded ile ers are ied as to be ned .
uch a ing age uld low the mer to are the uts and uts of ach to be ned ine , hen ect a ing thm rom the ves ded by the ing age .
ing new rch ues ise ere , uch as ing ing age cts for ing hat ing nce uld be ven to ach to be ned ine , hen , and ith hat rds nst ary ges to ram
ill ter ion rge ith ine ing ? ven the ing use of ine arn - ing for ate - of - the - art ter ion , ter ech ion , and her rms of ter ion , can we lop a ral ory of ion ded in ing ses ? one in - ing ity ere the ion of ple ory ies ( e . g . , ion , und , uch ) to ide a ing in ich elf - sed ing uld be ied to ict one ory eri - nce rom the ers .
ady ers in tal ogy and ion ave ved hat ing can be ore ive hen ple are ded ple put ies , and ork on co - ing ods rom ine ing sts the ame .
123 cal ons
ove are ome of the ems hat ill ape the eld of ine ing ver the ing ade .
ile it is ble to ict the ure , her rch in ine ing ill ost nly uce ore ful ter ies .
his , in urn , ill ead on ion to cal ons out ere and hen to ply the ing ogy .
for ple , der hat ays ogy uld ble ing ted ide cts of new ugs , if it ere ied to ata ing all tor its and cal rds in the try ong ith all ses of ugs .
ent ses in ich new ugs ere led ing a ber of ted ent ths ght ell ave een ted by ady ble ine ing ods .
ver , ing his ine ing ogy uld lso ave ted our nal acy , as our ial rds and rug ses uld ave had to be red and zed .
is his ing we ish as a ety to do ? lly , i eve ere are ood nts on oth des , and hat as a ety we eed to uss and ate ese ons in an pen and med ion , hen ome to a ion .
ted ons cur out ing ata for ity and law ent , or for ing ses .
ike all ful ies , ine ing ill ise its are of ons out her it uld be sed for lar ses .
ugh the wer to ach of
ese ons ill ave a cal ent , in ome ses the ion ill lso ave a ial icy ent ing all of us to ome ged in ing its wer .
123 ere to arn ore
to nd out ore out ine ing , see the top ces and als in the eld , ing :
nal nce on ine ing ( cml ) .
nce on ral ion ing ems ( ips ) .
ual nce on ing ory ( olt ) .
nal of ine ing rch ( mlr ) .
his top nal is ely ble ine at www . mlr . org .
ine ing .
hed by ger .
any of the eas ted ere ave sen rom ons ith ers .
i uld ike to dge any ing ons ith nts and lty of the ine ing ent at gie lon ity , for ing to ape my own iew of the ine of ine ing .
i uld lso ike to lly ank rim lum , hen erg , los rin , ael dan , and rew ng for ful nts on ier fts of his ent .
it uld be ble to do our ork out the ous ort of ers .
i am rly ful
for rch ort rom rpa , nsf , nih , the eck ion , and eed tin ion .
