act .
ing des a ful ool for the tic ign of ous ots .
ent rch on ing bot rol has tly sed on ing gle sks hat ere ied in ion .
if ots ter a ude of rol ing sks ver eir ire ime , ver , ere is an ity to fer dge een hem .
in der to do so , ots may arn the nts of the ual sks and nts .
his ask - ent dge can be yed to ias ion hen ing rol , ich ces the eed for eal - rld ion .
we gue hat dge fer is ial if ots are to arn rol ith ate ing mes in lex ios .
two hes to ong bot ing ich oth ure ant dge out the bot and its nts are ted .
oth hes ave een ted ing a ero - 123 ile bot .
ing sks ded ion in own oor nts and a ple nd - and - tch ask .
123 why ing ?
lly , it has ten een med in ics rch hat ate a ori dge out the bot , its ors , and ost ant its ent is ail - ble .
by ing the ity of ate els of oth the rld and the bot elf , the ind of nts uch ots can ate in , and tly the ind of sks uch ots can lve , is ted .
ons lly ise rom our
dge eck .
a man ner had to ide ate els of
the rld and the bot .
ing eck .
ven if tly led dge is ble , ing it ter - ble , i . e . , and - ing cit els of bot ard - are , ors and nts , has ten een und to ire ble nts of ing ime .
ity eck .
it was rly zed hat any tic bot do - ins are too lex to be led tly ( rtz et al . , 123 ) , ( nny ,
123 his per is lso ble as cal ort iai - tr - 123 - 123 , ity of onn , ept .
of ter nce iii , rch 123
123 ) , ( der , 123 ) .
nal ity ned out to be a ere ob - cle for ing rol res for lex ots in lex ins , and ots ere far rom ing ive .
ion eck .
the bot ice ust be ise ugh to ely
ute ans hat ere ted ing the nal els of the rld .
ent rch on ous ots has ged the ign of ous nts and ted out a ing ion for ure rch in ics ( see for xam - ple ( oks , 123 ) and ral ers in ( aes , 123 ) ) .
ity and eal - ime ion ave ved bly ore ion han , for ple , mal - ity and ess .
any hes ave ped the ion hat ect rld dge is ome ems ven ate in the eme ere no ain - cic ial dge is ble at all .
tly , ays ots are ing lly own , ile nts , hey ave to ent ves , ore eir nts sly , ver rom res , and hey ave to lve ole ies of sks .
if ots ack ial dge out ves and eir nts , ing mes ble .
the erm ing ers to a ety of hms hat are zed by eir ity to ace ing or ect rld dge by ion , ion , and ion .
ing ots hus ect rts of eir ain dge ves and ove ver ime .
hey are ess pen - ent on a man tor to ide his dge and .
a ing bot ure is lly ble ugh to eal ith a ole ass of nts , ots and / or sks ( als ) .
tly the nal ior dge , if ble at all , is ten too eak to lve a ete lem off - ine .
in der to ach a oal , ing ots ely on the ion ith eir ent to act in - ion .
ent ing ies fer nly in ree cts : eir way to do ion ( ion ) , eir way to ize rom the ved eri - nce , and the ype and unt of ior dge hat ins the ace of eir nal zes out the rld .
ere ill be no mal , ral ing que for ous ots , nce ing ues are zed by a ade - off een the ree of ity , ven by the ize of the aps in the ain dge , and the unt of ons red for ing ese aps .
lly ing , the ore sal a bot ing ure , the ore per - ion we ect the bot to ake to arn lly , and ice rsa .
ver , the age of ing ing ies to ous bot nts is ous : ing ots can ate in a ole ass of lly own nts , and hey can ate for ges , nce hey can re - ust eir nal ief out the ent and ves .
ver , all lly ned dge is ded in the eal rld .
it has ong een zed in ai hat ing is a key ure for ing ous nts ble of ing ore lex sks in ore tic nts .
ent rch has ced a ety of ous ing ues hat low a bot to ire uge nks of dge by it - elf .
see for ple ( mel , 123 ) , ( ore , 123 ) , ( eau , 123 ) , ( tan , 123 ) ,
ure 123 the bot rol ing lem .
a bot ent is ble to ive the ate of its ent by its ors , and nge it ing its ors ( ons ) .
a ard ion hat aps ons to rds res the nce of the bot .
the rol ing lem is the lem of ing a rol icy hat tes ons uch hat the ard is zed ver ime .
( van and ell , 123 ) , ( lin , 23b ) , and ( ers and yun , 123 ) .
hat tly is the ete lem sed by bot ing ? let us ine a ral ion of ing bot rol .
ume the bot cts in an ent w ( the rld ) .
ach ime tep , the ent is in a ain ate z z .
by ate we ean the sum of all ies in the ent hat may nge ing the ime of the bot .
the bot is ble to ( lly ) ive the ate of its ent ugh its ors .
it is lso ble to act ing its ors , as own in ure 123
let s nes the set of all ble ons , and a the set of all ons hat the bot can ute .
ons ( ing ero - ons , if the bot oes ing ) nge the ate of the rld .
nce , the ent can be ood as a ing w : z a ( cid : 123 ) ! z rom tes and ons to tes .
for ple , ine an ous ile bot ose ask it is to eep the oor ean .
the lds uch a bot ill be ing in are ngs , ing the les ing the bot , the ors , the irt on the ors , ans hat alk by , and so on .
ate ors ght ude a era ted on the ots arm , and the set of all ons ght be the ace of all era ges .
ons uld be go ard , urn , tch on / off uum , and ift arm .
in der to ene the als of the bot , we ume hat the bot is ven a ard ion r : s ( cid : 123 ) ! ir , hat aps ons to lar ard ues .
the ard tes the ess of the bot to lve its sks : in the ost ple orm the ard is ive ( say 123 ) , if the bot hes its als , it is ive ( - 123 ) if the bot ils , and ero ise .
ive ard nds to ure , and ive ard nts ain .
in the ile bot ain , for ple , the ard may be ive if ere is no irt on the oor , and ive ard may be ved if the bot des ith the ure or uns out of ery wer .
the rol ing
lem is the lem of ing a rol ion f hat tes ons uch hat the ard is zed ver ime .
ore lly , a rol ing lem can be bed in the ing way :
rol ing lem : hs; a; w; ri ( cid : 123 ) ! f : s ! a uch hat f zes r ver ime
his ion of the bot rol ing lem has een ely ied in the eld of ent ing .
( ton , 123 ) , ( rto et al . , 123 ) .
hus far , ost hes hat ged rom his eld ave ied bot ing ith a mal set of ons : the bot is ble to nse , it is ble to ute ons , ons ave an ect on ure ons , and ere is a pre - ven ard ion hat nes the als of the bot .
the oal of ent ing is to ize the ard ver ime .
ote hat his ral ion cks any ons out the bot at and , its ent , or the ind of ard ons the bot is ted to ace .
nce , hes hat are ble to ely lve uch a bot rol ing lem are ral ing ues .
aps the ost ing ion und in ost hes to ent ing is hat the bot is ble to nse the ate of the rld bly .
if his is the ase , it ces to arn the icy as a ion of the ost ent ion to ion : f : s ! a , i . e . , the rol icy is ely ive .
as rto et al .
ted out ( rto et al . , 123 ) , the lem of ing a rol icy can hen be ked by mic ing ues ( man , 123 ) .
as it rns out , ven if ots ave ess to ete ate ons of eir nts , ing rol in lex bot lds ith rge ate ces is lly not ble .
his is use it kes ten too uch ion to ire the dge red for ing ard , i . e . , to ll the uge dge aps , and bot are is low .
one ght gue hat ter ing ues ave to be ted hat ase the ing ity , ile ill ing ral .
ere is nly ace for ter ing and ion ues hat lly ase the unt of ion red , it ems ely hat uch ues ill ver be ble to lex , eal - rld bot nts ith rse ard and ult sks .
the ity of dge ion is ent in the ion of the lem .
eal - rld ion ill be the ral eck of any ral ing que hat oes not ize ior dge out the bot and its ent .
why do ral nts uch as ans arn so uch ter han ial nts ? ybe a ter ion to ask is : is the ing lem ced by ral nts any ler han hat of ial nes ? we ill not mpt to ive ral ers to ese ral ons .
we ill , ver , int out the nce of dge fer and ong ing ems in der to ake ots to arn ore lex
123 the ity of ong ent ing
ans lly ter a ude of rol ing ems ver eir ire ime , and so do ots .
rth , in his per we ill be ted in the ong ing lem ced by a bot ent , in ich it ust arn a ion of rol ies for a ety of ted rol sks .
ach of ese rol ems , hs; a; wi; rii ves the ame bot ith the ame set of ors , ors , and may ary nly in the lar ent wi , and in the ard ion ri hat nes the oal tes for his lem .
for ple , an ial ile bot ght ace ing sks uch as ing ges , ing ail , ing cal ses , ing its ork - ace at ght , and so on .
in his rio the ent ill be the ame for all sks , but the ard ion ies .
ely , a dow - ing bot hat is ble to imb nts of ngs and ove ily on lls and ows ght ave the ery gle ask of ing ows .
it ill , ver , ace ple nts and ows ( nts ) ver its ime .
in the ong ing lem , for ach ent ent and ach ard ion the bot ent ust nd a ent rol icy , fi .
the ong ing lem of the ent ore nds to a set of rol ing ems :
ong ing lem : hs; a; wi; rii ( cid : 123 ) ! jfi : s ! ag uch hat fi zes ri ver ime
of rse the ent uld ach the ong ing lem by ing ach rol ing lem tly .
ver , ere is an ity for the ent to do bly ter .
use ese rol ing ems are ned in rms of the ame s , a , and lly the ame w , the ent uld be ble to uce the lty of ing the i - th rol ing lem by ing dge it red rom ing ier rol ing ems .
for ple , a bot hat ust arn to ver ser ter put and to ect ash in the ame ent uld be ble to use uch of hat it has ned rom the rst ask to ify ing the ond .
the lem of ong ing ers the ity for rgy ong the ent rol ing ems , ich can eed - up ing ver the ime of the ent .
ing bot ing as a ong ing lem tes rch on oot - ing ing hms hat fer ned dge rom one ing ask to her .
ing ing hms ght art ith low - ity ing ems , and lly ase the lem ing wer to der rob - ems .
lar to ans , ure ots ght rst ave to arn ple sks ( uch as low - vel ion , and - eye ion ) , and , nce ful , raw eir at - ion to gly ore ult and lex ing sks ( uch as ing up
ure 123 the bot we sed in all nts bed in his per is a led ero - 123 bot ith a tor and a per .
it is ped ith two nar ors , one on the top of the bot hat can be ted by a ing ror to ive a ull 123 eep ( 123 ues ) , and one on the ist hat can be ted by the tor to ive a 123 eep .
nar ors urn ate cho ces .
uch ors are ive but ery isy .
and ing ser ter put ) .
as , for ple , ngh ( ngh , 23b ) and lin ( lin , 23b ) ate , ing ted rol sks ith ing ity can ult in a ble rgy een ese rol ing sks , and an im - ved lem ing wer .
in eir nts , ted ile ots ere ble to lve ore lex ion sks hen the ots ere ven ler , ted ing sks and .
hey lso ort hat eir ems ere ble to arn the ame lex sks in ion , ing out the nce of dge fer for bot ing .
the der of the per is zed as ows .
in the ext two ons , we ill iey ent two hes to the ong ing lem .
oth hes ave een ted and ted ing a ero - 123 ile bot ith a ma - tor own in ure 123
in the rst ach , led ion - sed ral ork ing ( bnn ) , we ill ume hat the ent of the ent ays the ame for all rol ing sks .
his ows the bot to arn ask - ent ion els .
nce ned , ese ion els ide a ans of ing dge oss rol ing sks .
in bnn , uch ion els are sed to ain and yze ons .
in ion 123 , we rop the ion of tic nts .
ead , we ibe a ile ous bot hat has to lve the
ure 123 ode : ing ith the ial ate 123 , the ion nce 23; 23; : : : ; an ( cid : 123 ) 123 was ved to uce the nal ard rn .
the bot ent ses its ion els , ich ure ous ces in the ame ent , to ain the ved ode and hus ias ing .
see ext for an ion .
ame ask in ent , ted nts .
we ate how his bot ght arn and fer ent - ent dge hat res the ris - ics of its ors , as ell as ant ics of the nts .
in ion 123 we ill iew ome ted hes to bot ing ich lso ize evi - sly ned dge .
as we ill see , ere are ral pes of ues hat can be ped nto ies .
the per is ded by ion 123
123 ing ons in rms of ior ces
as ned in the ous ion , the ong ing lem ced by a ing bot ent is the lem of ing ons of sks in ies of nts ver the ire ime .
in his ion we ill raw our ion to a lar sub - ype of ong ing ems , ely to the ong ing lem of ots hat end eir ole ife ely in the ame ent .
his ted ass of ong ing ios ays an ant ole in ous ent rch .
any ive bot nts , uch as ing ots , ial bot rms or ial cts , ace a ety of ing ems in the ery ame ent .
in uch ios , dge out the ent can be sed , nce the ent ays the ame for ach ask .
the ion - sed ral ork ing thm ( bnn ) , ich ill be ted in his ion , ers ask - ent dge via ned ion els ich are ned lly ing lem ing .
123 ing ion els
ots rve eir nts ( and ves ) by the cts of eir ons .
in her rds , ach ime an ion is med , the bot may use its ors
to nse the way the rld has ged .
let us ume for ity hat the bot is ble to ely nse the ate of the rld .
as ted out in the ous ion , ing rol ces to ing a ive 123
if the ent is tly ble , ral ork ing ues uch as the ack - ion ing ure ( art et al . , 123 ) can be sed to del the ent .
ore lly , ach ime an ion is med , the ous ate ted by s , the ion a and the ext ate s orm a ing ple for the ion del ork , ted by m :
h s; a i ( cid : 123 ) ! s
ion 123 are hus ons of the ype m : s a ( cid : 123 ) ! s .
nce we ume hat the ent is the ame for all sks , ion els ure nts hat low for ing dge rom one ask to her .
ach ual rol ing lem res a ent icy , i . e . , ing a rol ion fi : s ( cid : 123 ) ! a hat , hen yed by the ent , zes the ing ard ri .
in ral , fi is ult to arn tly .
ing the eas of ent ing ( ( uel , 123 ) , ( ton , 123 ) , ( rto et al . , 123 ) , ( ins , 123 ) ) , we ose the lem of ing fi nto the lem of ing an ion ion , qi , ned ver tes and ons .
qi : s a ( cid : 123 ) ! ir , ere is; a is the ted ure ive ard ved ter ing ion a in ate s .
ume for a ent the ent had ned an ate ion ion qi .
hen it can ily use his ion to ect mal ons hat ize ard ver ime .
ven ome ate , s , hat the ent nds elf in , it tes its rol ion a by ing its ble ons to ine ich of hem ces the est qi lue :
a = xaa is; a
nce is; a res the ure ive ard , a is the mal ion if is; a is ect .
the lem of ing a icy is hus ced to the lem of ing an ion ion .
how can an ent arn the ion ion qi ? to see how ing ata for ing qi ght be ned , der the rio ted in ure 123
the bot
123 we lly oid the lex lem of ete and isy ion ion , nce the thm ted in his ion is ind of nal to rch on ese ues .
see ( ach and zer , 123 ) , ( man , 123 ) , ( lin and ell , 123 ) , ( zer and ach , 123 ) , ( est and ire , 123 ) , ( tan , 123 ) , ( ead and ard , 123 ) for hes to ing ith ete ion .
123 see for ple ( rto et al . , 123 ) , ( dan , 123 ) , ( nro , 123 ) , ( run , 123 ) for
ore hes to ing ion els ith ral rks .
ent ins at the ial ate 123 and rms the ion nce 23; 23; : : : ; an .
ter ion an it ves the ard rn = 123 : 123 ich , in his ple , tes hat the ion nce was bly ful .
at a rst nce , his ode can be sed by the ent to ive ing les for the ion ion qi by ing the nal 123 ith ach ate - ion air :
h 23; 123 i ( cid : 123 ) ! rn = 123 : 123 h 23; 123 i ( cid : 123 ) ! rn = 123 : 123
h sn ( cid : 123 ) 23; an ( cid : 123 ) 123 i ( cid : 123 ) ! rn = 123 : 123
an ive ing hod , uch as the ack - ion ing ure , can use uch ing les to arn qi .
as the ber of ing les ows , the nts nal ion of qi ill ove , ing in it ing gly ive ons . 123 ice hat for ach rol ing lem hs; a; wi; rii , the ent ust arn a nct qi , nce the ard ers for ent sks .
123 the ion - sed ral ork ing thm
how can the ent use its sly ned dge , ely the ral ork ion els , to ide ing of the ion ion qi ? as ted out ier in his per , we are ted in the ong ing lem .
nce we ume out his ion hat the ent is the ame for all ual rol ing ems , ral ork ion els ure ant ain dge hat is ent of the lar rol ing lem at and .
in the ion - sed ral ork ing thm ( bnn ) , the ent ses ese ion els to ias ing of the rol ons .
123 for ion of the ion , we ume hat ard ill nly be ved at the end of an ode .
bnn can be ied to ary ard ons .
see ( ell and run , 23b ) for ore ils .
123 ote hat ore ted ing mes for ing ion ons ave een ped .
in his ion , ins ( ins , 123 ) bes q - ing , a eme for ing ion ion sk; ak ely .
in q - ing ain - ing rns are ved sed on the mum ble q lue at the ext ate : sk; aki ( cid : 123 ) ! axa 23; a .
eed , in all our nts we ied a ear mbi - ion of ins ive eme and the non - ive eme bed in the per .
his ion is gly ted to ons t d hms ( ton , 123 ) .
nce the act ure is not ial for the eas ted in his per , we ill mit any ils .
a ond ion , lso sed ely , is to unt ard ver ime .
if ons are to be sen uch hat the ber of ons is mal , ard is lly ted ith a unt tor 123
the ing rol icy tly ers ner ard to ore ant ard .
see ( ell and run , 23b ) or ( run and ell , 123 ) for a ore led ion of ese ues .
ure 123 ing pes : let f be a get ion for ich ree les 23; 23i , 23; 23i , and 23; 23i are own .
sed on ese nts the ner ght ate the sis g .
if the put - put ves are lso own , the ner can do uch ter : h .
bnn rks as ows .
ose the bot ces the rol ing lem num - ber i , i . e . , it has to arn the ion ion qi .
the ing eme bed ove des ing ues for the red ion ion .
ive per - ion ows the bot to ect ugh ata to arn the red qi .
ver , his ess oes not ize the dge ted in the ion els .
as - ume the ent has ned ady ate ion els hat del the ect of ons on the ate of the ent .
of rse , ese ion els ill nly be ely ect , nce hey are ned ely rom a ite unt of ing ata .
in bnn , the ent oys ese ion els to ain , yze and ize ter rom the ved des .
his is one in the ing ree
ain .
an ion is a ost - cto ion of the ved ate - ion nce ( ong and ney , 123 ) , ( ell et al . , 123 ) , ( ell and run , 23a ) .
ing ith the ial ate - ion air 23; 123 , the ent ost - cto cts ent tes up to the nal ate sn ing its ral ork ion els .
nce the ion els are nly ely ect , dic - ons ill ate rom the ved tes .
yze .
ing ned the ole ode , the ion is zed to act her ion hat is ful for ing the ion ion qi .
in lar , the ent zes how a all nge of the tes res ill ect the nal ard , and hus the lue of the ion ion .
his is one by ing ial ves ( pes ) of the get ion qi ith ect to the ved tes in the ode : rst , the ent tes the ial ive of the nal ard ith ect to the nal ate sn .
ice hat the ard ion rs , ing its ive , is med to be ven to the ent .
ese pes are now ted rds ugh the ain of ion del ces .
ral ork ion els ent ble ons .
ing the ain ule of ion , the ent tes the ial ive of the nal ard ith ect to the ing ate sn ( cid : 123 ) 123 by ing the ial ive of the ard ith the ive of the ral ork ion
his ess is ted , ing all ial ves of the nal ard ong the ole ode :
ere m : s a ( cid : 123 ) ! s tes the ral ork ion del .
the ard - ate pes yze the nce of the ate res for the nal ard .
ate res ved ( by the ion els ) to be ant to ing the nal ard ill ave ial ves of ero , eas rge ive ues ate the nce of gly ant res .
the lly ted pes ate the pes of the get ion ion qi .
ure 123 tes the nce of the ope rma - ion of the get ion .
ose the own get ion is the ion f ted in ure 23a , and ose hat ree ing les are ven : 123 , 123 and 123
an ary ous ion tor , for ple a ral ork , ght ize the ion g own in ure 23b .
if the pes at ese nts are own as ell , hen the ing ion ght be uch ter , as ted in ure 23c .
bnn ses a ned ing eme ing oth pes of ing for - ion .
the get ues ( c . f .
ion 123 ) for ing qi are ted rom ion , eas the get pes , ven by
r h sn ( cid : 123 ) 23; an ( cid : 123 ) 123 i ( cid : 123 ) !
r h 23; 123 i ( cid : 123 ) !
sk; ak ;
are ted rom ing the ons ing ain dge red in ous rol ing sks .
oth ces of ing ion , the get ues and the get pes , are sed to ate the hts and ses of the get ork . 123 tly , the ain dge is sed to ias the ion .
nce his ias is ble , it ill lly ace the eed for eal - rld ion , nce ate ing .
123 as ard and ues ted out , the ack - ion thm can be ded to t get pes as ell as get ues ( ard et al . , 123 ) .
eir thm ent rop lly tes hts and ses of a ral ork uch hat oth the lue and the ope ror are sly zed .
123 ing ect ion els
ial nts ith bnn on a ted bot ion ask wed a ant dup in ing hen the bot ent had ess to hly ate ion els ( ell and run , 23b ) .
if the ion els are not tly ate , ver , the bot nce can sly fer rom the sis .
his is use the ted pes ght ery ell be ong and ead ion .
his ons ses an ial ion for rch on ong ent ing and dge fer : how can a bot ent eal ith ect ior dge ? rly , if the ent cks ing nce , any ely ned ias ght be oor and ing .
but ven in the rst ase , a ing ism hat oys sly ned ain dge uld not ake ore ime for ing rol han a ing ism hat oes not ize ior dge at all .
how can the ner oid the ing cts ing rom oor ior dge ?
in bnn , ous pes are ied and eir nce is lly ced .
ore lly , the acy of the ted pes is ted sed pon the ved ion ror of the ion els .
for ple , if the ion els tly ost - cto ict the ved ode , the ted acy of all pes ill be 123
ise , if for ome of the ion els in the ain of del ves ave ced ate ate ons , the ing ted acy ill be ose to ero .
the ies of the pes are now sed hen ing the get ork .
nce ent rop ows to ght ach ing ern lly , the ted ies can be sed to ine the tio ith ich lue ing and ope ing are ted hen ing the get ept .
ore lly , in bnn the tep - ize for ght tes is ied by the ted ope acy hen ing pes .
as ted ere ( ell and run , 23b ) , ing ope ing by eir ies was und to lly uce the act of ous pes ing rom ate ion els .
we ted bnn ing ine ent ets of ion els hat ere ned ith ent nts of ing ata .
ith ell - ned ion els in the ted bot ain , the ame dup was ved as ore .
ith ing ate ion els , the nce of bnn hed hat of ard ent ing out dge fer .
in ese nts , bnn ded lly ith ing ors in the ion els .
ese lts are ing nce hey ate the ity of ong ing hms hat are ble to net rom sly ned ias , ven if his ias is oor .
123 a ete ple : ing to ick up a cup
we ill ent ome ial lts ned ith our ero - 123 bot .
hus far , we tly ted the ect of sly ned dge on the
ure 123 the bot ses its tor and a nar sor to nse the nce to a cup and to ick it up .
ing eed for new rol ing sks .
we ore ned the ion mod - els and ith lly ted ing ata .
the bot ent had to arn a icy for ing and ing a cup .
the bot at and , own ain in ure 123 , sed a and - ted nar sor to rve its ent .
nar ata was sed to ate the ion and nce to the est ect , ich was sed as the rld ate ion .
bot ons ere ard ( hes ) , urn ( ees ) , and rab .
ive ard was ved for ful sps , and ive ard for ful sps as ell as for ing ght of the cup .
in his ent , ons ere led by ree ate rks , one for ach ion .
the rks for the zed ons ard ( hes ) and urn ( ees ) ted the nce and the ion to the cup ( one den yer ith 123 its ) , eas the del for rab ted the ity hat a pre - ven , pen - oop ing ing uld age to ick up the cup ( our den its ) .
all ion els ere pre - ned rom ely two red ing des ing an age of ve eps ach , ich ere lly ted and .
ure 123 ows as an ple the ion del for the rab ion .
nce his lar ion del led the ity of ess of the ing ine , the ard ion was ply the ity ing rs = s ( ith the ant ive 123 ) .
the ion ion q was lso led by ree nct rks , one for ach ion ( 123 den its ach ) .
ter ing the ion els , the six ing des for the ion rks own in ure 123 ere ded by a man her who led the bot .
we ied a ion of t d ( ton , 123 ) ith = 123 : 123 and ins q - ing ( ins , 123 )
123 deg 123 123 deg 123
ure 123 ion del for the ion del rab .
the x and y xis res ain the gle and nce to the cup .
the z xis ots the ted ess of the asp ion , i . e . , the ity hat the ing eds .
ith nce lay ( lin , 23a ) for ing rol .
ure 123 tes the ned q ion for the rab ion ith ( ght row ) and out ( eft row ) ing the ion els and bnn .
in his ial age of ing , hen tle ata is yet ble , the ion ias rom the pre - ned ion els is ent .
ugh one of the q ons has yet ged , the q ons ned ing bnn ave a ape hat is ore ect , and ich is ely to be sed sed ely on the few ved ing nts ith no ial dge .
for ple , ven ter ing six des the ain ing ure cts ive ard ely sed pon the gle of the cup , eas the ned bnn hod has ady ned hat ing ill ail if the cup is too far way .
his ion , ver , is not ted in the ing des ( ure 123 ) , nce ere is no gle ple of an mpt to asp a cup far way .
it her ems hat the pes of the del ere ied nto the get ion ion .
his tes the ect of the pes in bnn : the ion ons ned ith bnn red the ion of the nce of the cup and the ess of the rab ion rom the ral ork ion del .
if ese ion els ere ned in an ier rol ing sks , ere uld be a ant rgy ect een hem .
the bnn lts in his ion are ial .
hey are ted use hey ate hat ask - ent dge , nce ned , can be lly red by bnn hen ing the ing ask .
hey are lso ted nce hey ted bnn in a eal bot ain , ike the lts ted in ( ell and run , 23b ) , ( run and ell , 123 ) .
ver , hus far we did not ect ugh
ure 123 six ing des for ing rol , led by 123 to 123
the tal xis res the gle of the cup , ive to the ots ody , and the cal xis res the nce to the cup in a mic ale .
ful sps are led ith + , ful ith .
ice hat ome of the des ded ing and ing .
ing ata to arn a ete icy for ing and ing the cup ith her hod .
ure rch ill ize the rgy ing the ull rse of ing til nce .
it ill lso ent ith ies of ted sks , uch as ing and ing ent cts , ing ups hat lie on the
123 bnn and ong bot ing
hat son oes bnn ach us in the ext of ong ent ing ? in his ion we ade the ing ion hat all rol ing ems of the bot ent lay in the ery ame ent .
if his is the ase , any ype of els of the bot and its ent are ing tes for ing ask - ant dge een the ual rol ing ems .
in bnn , ask - ent ion is ted by ral ork ion els .
ese els ias ion hen ing rol via the ess of ing and ing ved des .
bnn is a hod for ong ent ing , nce it rns and re - ses ned dge hat is ent of the lar rol ing lem at and .
ugh the ial nts bed in his per do not lly ate his int , bnn is ble to tly ace eal - rld
out cal ing , 123 des
ith cal ing , 123 des
ure 123 ion ons for the ion rab ter ing 123 ( per row ) and 123 ( wer row ) ing des , and out ( eft umn ) and ith ( ght umn ) ing the ion del for ing the ion .
ion by sly ned ias .
in ted nts ith a ted bot ted ere ( ell and run , 23b ) , we ved a ant eed - up by a tor of 123 to 123 hen pre - ned ion els ere yed .
it is ant to ion hat we ect bnn to be ven ore ent if the ion of the ate ace is her .
his is use for ach gle ion bnn cts a d - nal ope tor rom the ent , if d if the ion of the put ace .
our ure is hat ith ate ain ies the ion ent les rly ith the ber of nce res ( e . g . , we uld ect a ree der of ude ent for a ork ith 123 put res ) , nce ach ive ted by bnn can be wed hly as ing ion ent to one new ing ple for ach of the d put ons .
his ure is hly ent ith our nts in
the ted bot ain .
the ive nce ent ght ase ven ore if her - der ves are ted , ich is not yet the ase in bnn .
it is ant to ice , ver , hat the ity of the ion els is ial for the nce of bnn .
ith ate ion els , bnn ill not orm ter han a ely ive ing ure .
his oes not ise .
hes to the ong ing lem ill ays be at ost as ent as non - ing hes the bot ves its rst rol ing lem in its ife .
the red rgy ect urs ter , hen the ent has ned an ate ain - cic ias , hen it is ore ure .
123 ong ing in ple nts
in the ous ion we sed on a ain ype of ong bot ing ems , ely ems ich eal ith a gle ent .
we ill now cus on a ore ral ype of ong - ing ios , in ich the nts fer for the ual rol ing sks .
as ted out in ion 123 , ere are ite a few bot ing ios ere a bot has to arn rol in ole ies of nts .
for ple , a uum ing bot ght ave to arn to ean ent ngs .
ely , an ous cle ght ave to arn ion in ral pes of ain .
lti - ent ios ide ess ies for ing dge .
at a rst nce , ing dge ems ard , if the ent is not the ame for all rol ing sks .
but ven in his ype ems ere are nts hat may be ned and sed as a ias .
the key ion is hat all ong ing ios lve the ame bot , the ame ors , the ame ors , ugh hey ght ave to eal ith a ety of nts and rol ing sks ein .
hes to his ype of ong ing ems hus aim at ing the ics of the ors and ors of the bot , as ell as nts in the nts , if ere are any .
the ple of ing and ing ask - ent dge is the ame as in the ous ust the ype of dge hat is red ers .
so far , ere has een tle tic rch on his ral ype of ong bot ing ios .
in the der of his ion we ill not ibe a ral ing ism , but a lar ach to ing the ics of the ots ors and the nts .
ing the ero - 123 bot as an ple , we ill ate how rse sor els can ent a ble ias ich is ent of the lar ent at and .
ure 123 the bot res an own ent .
ote the cle in the dle of the ory .
our lab ses any ous nar ues , and is a ard bed for nar - sed ion .
for ple , ome of the irs orb und ost ely , and are hus ard to ect by nar .
123 ing to ret ons
hat ind of nts can be ned oss ple nts ? two rva - ons are ial for the ach bed ere .
rst , the bot and its ors are the ame for ach ent .
ond , ere ght be ies in the ron - nts hat can be ned as ell .
in his ion we ill ibe a ral ork ach to ing the ics of the ots ors , as ell as ose of cal oor nts .
the ask of the ile ero - 123 bot is to ore own ngs ( run , 123 ) .
ing a new oor ent uch as the ory ent ted in ure 123 , the bot has to der und and to use its ors to oid ons .
in the ion ask the bot ses two of its ors : a ing nar sor is ted on the ead of the bot , as own in ure 123
the bot lso ors its els ers to ect uck or ing els .
ive ard is ved for ion ich can be ted ing the eel ers .
ive ard is ved for ing ons ere the bot has not een ore .
lly , the bot oes not ess any dge out its ors and the nts it ill ace out its ife .
ons are ted 123 - nal ors of ats ( nar ans ) , ong ith a gle bit hat des the ate of the els .
in der to ify ing , we ume hat the bot has ess to its x - y - tes
ure 123 ask - ent dge : ( a ) sor ion ork r and ( b ) nce ork c .
in a bal nce ame ( res the ion of the bot ) . 123 ion in own nts is rly a ong bot ing lem .
lly , the bot has to nce ons , nce the ial dge oes not fce to ent rom hem .
ons ill be zed by ive ard .
in der to fer dge , the bot hen has to arn how to ret its ors in der to ent ons .
his dge is re - sed for ach ent the bot ill ace ver its ime .
ter ome ial ion , the bot uld be ble to ver in new , own rld ile lly ing ons ith
we ill now ibe a air of rks ich arn sor - cic dge hat can be re - sed oss ple ent .
the sor ion ion , ted by r , aps sor nin our ase a nar nto ard for - ion .
ore lly , r tes for ary ons ose to the bot the ity for a ion , sed on a gle nar can .
ure 23a ows r .
put to the ork is a tor of nar ues , her ith the tes of the ery int x; y ive to the ots cal ate ame .
the put of the net - ork is 123 , if the ion cts a ion for his int , and 123 , if the ork cts ree - ace .
his ion can be ned by ard sed ing hms , if the bot eps ack of all sor ngs and of all ons ere it ded ( and ere it did not ide ) .
as the bot tes , it cts aps hat bel ied ons and ree - ace , ich is sed to orm ing les for the sor ion ork r .
as ual , the bot ses ack - ion to arn r .
in der to ent the ous bot are rom eal - rld ons , we
123 if the bot els are ect , his x - y - ion can be ted lly by ead ing .
the bot at and , ver , is not ise ugh , and ter 123 to 123 tes of ion the eal ted lly ate tly rom the nal tes .
an ach to ing uch rol ors is iey bed in ( run , 123 ) .
( a ) sor ion
ure 123 ing ain dge in the rks r and c .
( a ) sor ons and ( b ) nce ues are own for the ing les : 123
way , 123
way ith pen oor .
way ith man ing by , 123
ner of a oom , 123
ner ith cle , 123
ral les .
nes ate nar ure - nts ( ces ) , and the ion ess nts in ( a ) the ted ion ard for ing eas ( ark ues ate ive ard ) , and in ( b ) the nce vel ( ark ues ate low nce ) .
ned a bot tor and sed it for ing the ing rns for the ion ork .
in the tor the ole bot ent is own , and ing les hat map ons to ncy ion can be ted ily .
in a few tes the ted bot red its ted rld , ing
ure 123 map ing : ( a ) raw , isy sor put on an ion ath ith 123 nts .
( b ) ing del , ing to the lab own in ure 23b ( lab way is ard tom eft ) .
the ath of the bot is lso ted ( rom ght to eft ) , ing the ion of the lly own lab .
in the ext eps , the bot ill ass the oor of the lab and ore the way .
a tal of 123 123 ing les .
six les for sor ion ing r are own in ure 23a .
the cle in the ter nts the bot , and the nes nal to the bot ent ces sed by the ars .
the ity of ive ard , as ted by the r , is yed in the lar ons und the bot : the ker the ion , the her the ity of ion .
as can be een rom his ure , the ork r has lly ned how to ret nar als .
if nar ues are all ( ing hat the nar nal ced ack rly ) , the ork cts an cle rby .
ise , rge lue ngs are ted as ree - ace .
the ork has lso ned nts in the ing nts .
for ple , cal zes of lls are own .
in ure 23a - 123 , for ple , the bot cts a ong cle of a ain dth , but ind his cle it cts a bly low ity for ion .
his ion is ing , ven hat nar ors not see ugh les .
in the ing nts , ver , ons ind lls ned to be ree rly ten , ich ins the x - ray ons by the ork .
his des ear nce hat the sor ion ork oes not nly ent dge out the ots ors , but lso dge out ain nts of the nts at and .
ure 123 lab and oor : ( a ) del , and ( b ) nce map .
123 ing aps
we ill now ate the eed for a ond ork , the so - led nce ork c , ich is ted to r .
as can bee een rom ure 23a , a gle nar can can be sed to ild a all cal map und the bot .
if the bot ves und and kes ral ngs , the ing ons can be ned to orm a 123 of the rld .
ver , ere ill be nts in the rld ere the ons rom ple ons ill ree .
ere are two ain ons for ing ons : rst , nar ors , ike any sor , are isy ces .
hey ten ail to ect ain cts uch as oth ces or cts ith ing ces ike ome of our fce irs .
ond , ars are ind for eas ind les .
nce ons for ons ind an cle ill be hey uly ect the age ity of ncy ( the ior ) .
his ion kes it ary to ign a ism hat ves cts een ent ons .
we ill ach his lem by tly ing the ity of the ter - ons , and ing the ity as ing tor hen ing ple ons .
ore lly , der a ing ase for the ion net - ork r .
for ome of the ing les , r ill age to ict the get lue ely .
for ers , ver , ere ill be a ant ual ror for the
123 see ( vec , 123 ) and ( fes , 123 ) for ted hes to map ing and bot
ure 123 map led ing the rst aai ous bot ion in san ose , uly 123
the map cts the dge of the bot ter age 123 of the ion .
in his and the ous age , the bot had to nd and ach ten lly ked les , ile ing ion ith les .
nes ark the ary of the ion rea .
the map is how ate nce it was ilt on two ate ays , and the ons of the bot and the les ere not ite cal .
we ted for uch ies by ing the nce ver
ons ven ove .
his ror is sed to ain a ond ork c , ich is led nce ork .
the put to c is the ame as the put to r .
the get put is the ( zed ) ion ror of r .
ter ing , c hus cts the ted ion of the sor ons , ted by cs; x; y .
the nce nto ese ion rs; x; y is hus ven by ( cid : 123 ) ln cs; x; y .
hen ple sor ons are ned , the ual ion ues are ged , ted by eir nce lue .
ure 23b ows nce ues for the ons wed in ure 23a .
ere ark ons ond to low nce .
ise , ght ons ate igh nce .
as can be een rom ese les , the nce in ons ind les is lly low .
low nce is lso ted for ary ons een ree - ace and les , his oes not ise , nce nar ues ect cts in a 123 one .
hey do not ell ere in the one an ect was und .
tly , the ne - ure of cts is ard to ict .
lar to the sor ion ork , the con -
nce ork nts dge out the ors and the nts of the bot hat can be red oss nts .
it is ant to ice hat oth rks , r and c , ent ned dge hat is ent of the lar ent at and .
ese rks act as a ias in the ing ess , hen the bot cts an nal del of a new ent .
the res 123 to 123 how ome ple aps hat ere ned for ent nts .
we sed the rks r and c to nd els of our lab ( 123 ) .
a ple non - ive thm was sed for ion hat lly ned mal - ost ans to the est red ion .
els of the lab and the way are own in res 123 and 123
ugh oth rks ere ned in ion , hey lly ted the bot rom ith les .
the ame rks r and c ere sed on a ous bot ion , hat was eld ing the aai nce in uly 123 in san ose .
ere the ask and ent red rom the nts the bot had een sly : the ent was a rge ena led ith per xes , and the ask was to nd and to ate to 123 lly ked les .
the bot had no ion out the ion of the les and the les .
it had to ore and del the ent by elf .
the nal ion ( we med the bot eus ) was far ore lex han hat is bed ere .
eus ion was map - sed , and the ive map ing ure was a ent of eus rol .
the bot yed the ame rks hat ere ted by the tor and ted in our nts in the lab .
ter a tal of 123 tes ion ing two ate ges of the ion the bot ced the map own in ure 123
the rks ced aps hat ere ate ugh to ect the bot rom any ion ith an cle .
hey lso wed the bot to nd ose - to - mal ths to the oal ons .
123 sor ion and ong bot ing
hat is the ion of his ach to the lem of ong ent ing ? of rse , ing sor ion oes not ily ave to be wed as a hod for ing ias , and the ted hod is by no ans a ral ing eme for ong ing ems .
ver , for the ose of his per we ill ize map ing in rms of ong bot ing .
sly in ach new ent the bot rly has to arn rol .
his is use lly , hen the bot ces a new , own ent , its dge oes rly not fce to ate ons hat ize ard .
the bot hen lly rns a icy for ion ion tep - by - tep , and the nal aps ide the dom for ing , the dge aps led ing the rse of ion ith the rld .
ing nal two - nal ncy aps , her ith the tic ing ine hat tes ion ing ese aps , is ing rol .
hus , ing ral ork sor ons ers a ing ive for rch in ong bot ing in ple nts .
ugh oth the nts and the als red for the ual bot rol sks in
our nts , we ave ted hat dge fer uld lly uce eal - rld ion .
the bot did now out ons in oth eal - rld nts out ver ing ced one , ely sed on sly ned dge .
we eve hat ods ich ire and ize els of the ors , ors ( not ted ere ) , and nts in the nts are ing tes for ent bot ing in ore lex ong ing
123 ted ork
hes to dge fer in the ong ing ems can be wed as ues for ing ion ion ias .
ous ers ave ted the nce of ing ias and ing dge oss ple bot rol ing sks .
hey can hly be ped nto the ing ate -
ing els .
ion els are aps the ost ard way to arn and fer ask - ent dge , if all ual rol ing sks eal ith a gle ent .
hes hat ize ion els dif - fer in the ype of ion els hey loy , and the way the ion els are sed to ias ing rol .
ton ( ton , 123 ) nts a tem hat rns ion els , ike bnn .
he ses ese els for ing cal ces hat ene the rol icy .
in his nts he und a men - ous dup in ing rol hen ing ese ion els .
bnn ers rom his ach in hat it ses its ion els for ing eal - rld ob - ons , and in hat des a ism to ver rom ors in the ion els .
lin ( lin , 23a ) bes a ism ere ast nce is mem - zed and dly yed hen ing rol .
the ion of ast nce rms a non - ing ion del .
lin lso rts ant ups hen ing his lay ism .
as ned ove , nce lay was lso sed for ral ork ing in bnn .
hus far , ere has een tle rch on ing els hat can act as a ias in ong ing ems ith ple bot nts .
ing ors and ons .
a ond way of ing and fer - ing dge oss sks are ors .
ors are ers ( ies ) ith low ten the erm ior ers to ive ers .
re - ent ing , for ple , can be wed as a que for ing ors .
ors orm act ion ces , nce the sic ons of the bot ght be ced by the ion of ing a ior .
hus , ith pro - ate ors act ion ces can be med , and ies of ons can be ied .
ing ors tes ing rol by ing the rch ace of all ble ies , nly for two ons .
rst , the num - ber of ors is ten ler han the ber of ons .
ond , ors
lly are ted for ger ods of ime .
the ter ent is lly ore ant and des a ger ias for ing rol .
ngh ( ngh , 23b ) , ( ngh , 23a ) rts a que to arn lex sks by rst ing ers for ple sks sed on ent ing .
ese ers ent ive ors .
the igh - vel icy is ned in the act ion ace med by the low vel ors .
in der to rep - ent ven the igh - vel ler as a ely ive ion , ngh kes ral ing ons on the ype of sks and sor ion .
in his ral sis , lin ( lin , 23b ) bes a ted eme for ing be - ors , ion ies and ion .
he mes hat a man tor hes a bot a set of tal ors ich fce for all sks ich the bot ill ace ver its ime .
ike ngh , his ach oes not tee hat mal ler can be ned in the mit .
tly , yan and ton ( yan and ton , 123 ) sed a tem hat ses a pre - ven cal ion to arn rol on ent els of ion .
ach vel of ion ers in the ain - ize of the ory ion , ing in dif - tly zed ers .
nce eir tem rns ive ers on ach vel ing ent ing hms , it is ear for hat ype of ems his ure ill arn lly , nce ial ion may be sed hen ing ete sor ion to ely ive
ing ive ion ion ias .
her , ore for - ard ach to ing and ing dge is to arn the ive ias of the ion ors sed for ing rol tly .
son ( son , 123 ) nts a eme for ing nce res for nce - sed , cal ion mes .
in his thm , ing ors are ned hat ows to ght ent put res tly .
ton ( ton , 123 ) rts a ily of ing mes hat low to arn ive ias lar to man ers ( man , 123 ) .
ugh he did not ibe his ods in the ext of ing rol , his rch has een ted by ing dge oss ple rol ing sks .
ing ons .
ons , her ith ive ias , de - ine the way a ion tor zes rom les .
any re - ers ave sed on ing ate ons in der to arn ias .
for ple , att ( att , 123 ) bes ral hes hat low to re - use ned ons in den its of ral rks .
ugh she uld lly ate hat his fer uld tly uce the ber of ing chs red for the nce of the ack - ion thm , she nly und nal nts in the ion .
a sim - lar que is ted by key and key ( key and key , 123 ) .
ome ers ave ied dge fer if ral sks are ned sly .
for ple , rth and ien ( rth and ien , 123 ) ted hat ple ing sks of ain pes can ess - lly ide and ove ion .
in his ach , he ves nts to ral
rks in orm of nal put its hat arn a ely ted ask .
ese nts ain the nal ion ped by the ork .
in a ore ral way , ana ( ana , 123 ) tly sed to arn ole ons of sks in lel , ing a red nal ion .
he con - res hat lti - ask ing ill ake ral ork ing hms ale to ore lex ing sks .
oth hes to the ong ing lem bed in his per all nto the rst ory .
in bnn , the bot rns ion els ich ias ion in the ion ons .
sor ion ons are rse els of the ors and the nts of the bot .
in the bot ion sks , the bot hus rns els of elf and cal cts of its nts , ich ias the ion of the ual aps .
as ted out ier , ion els are ell - ted if the ent is the ame for all ing sks , eas sor els are ate for ong ent ing in ple nts .
in his per we ave ted a ong ing ive for ous ots .
we ose not to udy bot ing ems in ion , but in the ext of the ude of ing ems hat a bot ill ace ver its ime .
ong bot ing ens the ity for fer of ned dge .
his dge may be sed as a ias hen ing rol .
ugh rol ing ods hat low the fer of dge are ore lex as ost hms hat lve ted rol ing ems , bot ing elf be - mes ier .
ots hat ize and fer dge ely ess on eal - rld ion and hus arn ter .
his is use sly ned dge may act as a ble ias hat may lly ace the ure tic ias of ive ing hms .
we ave ted ith two ete hes the ial rgy ect of dge fer .
ese hes sed two ain pes of ong ent ing ios , ely ose hat are ned in a gle ent , and ose hat are not .
we gly eve hat dge fer is ial for ing bot ing hms to ore tic and lex ins .
ing sly ned dge ies ing rol .
ese lts ort our tal aim hat ing mes ier , if it is ded nto a ong ing ext .
we ank the cmu bot ing oup and the eus eam at cmu for alu - ble ion hat ted to his rch .
we lso ank uke oka
ure 123 ( a ) the ity of onn bot ino ( red by eal rld ace , inc . ) , ( b ) map ( ely 123 123 ers ) ted by ino at the aai - 123 bot ion , ing the que bed in his per .
for his ble elp in ing bnn .
his rch was red in art by the ics lab , ght rch and de - ent ter , cal ems ion ( fsc ) , u .
air rce , ght - son afb , oh 123 - 123 der act 123 - 123 - c - 123 , rpa der no .
123 and by a ant rom ens ion .
the ews and ons ned in his ent are ose of the ors and uld not be ted as ing the ial ies , her sed or ied , of the u . s .
ent or ens orp .
nce his per was ted , bnn was lly ied to a ety of eal - rld ing sks .
in ( ell and run , 123 , run , 123 , run , 23a ) , ult of ing bnn to ile bot ion ing the cmu ier bot are ted .
bnn has lso een ied to bot ion ( ell et al . , 123 ) ,
( van et al . , to ear ) , ect ion ( run and ell , 123 ) and the ame of ess ( run , 23b ) .
in ( run and ell , 123 ) , a ion of the ong ing lem in the ext of sed ing can be und .
the ach to ing nar ors for ing ncy aps ted in ect .
123 has een , ith ght ons , lly yed in the ity of nns try ino at the 123 aai ile bot ion ( ann et al . , to ear ) .
tly , aps are ely ilt for rge oor eas .
