it is ten ful to ify ail ord - ing to the ent of the der ( e . g . , " pro - ose a ing " , " ver ion " ) .
we ent tal lts in arn - ing to ify ail in his ion , ere ach ass nds to a erb - oun air ken rom a ned tol - ogy ing cal ail ech cts .
we ate hat , ugh his ion lem is ite dif - ent rom cal ext ion , ain ies of ges can one - ess be ted ith igh ion ( ove 23% ) and ble all ( ove 23% ) ing ing ext - ion ing ods .
his ult sts hat ful ask - ing ols uld be ted sed on tic ifi - ion nto his omy .
ods ich uld be sed to lly uto - ate his ort of ity ing .
a cal ple of an ail ant hat rks ong ese nes is own in ure 123
do you ave any ple ing - ted ail we uld use as ata ? - eve
ure , ill put ome her
red , can you ect the sgs rom the ace ora ged w / the ing oun , sap ? - ill
ant ces : new ail est , ity
ant : uld i add his new ent to our to -
ant : ces ing est , may ake ion if no wer is ved tly .
yes , i can get to hat in the ext few ays .
is ext day ok ? - red
ant : ces ing ent .
uld i end red a der on day ?
ure 123 - log ith a cal ail ant hat lly cts ail ech cts .
hed xes ate ing ges .
( ges ave een ted for ace and ity . )
in his per we uss ing ine arn - ing ods to ify ail ing to the ent of the der .
in lar , we ify ils ing to an ogy of rbs ( e . g . , ose , mit , ver ) and uns ( e . g . , for - ion , ing , ask ) , ich tly ibe the ail ech act ded by the ail der .
a hod for ate ion of ail nto uch ies uld ave any ial its .
for nce , it uld be sed to elp an ail ser ack the tus of ing int ivi - ies .
ion and ion of int sks is a ime - ing and ror - one ity , and the ost of ors is igh : it is not mon hat nts are ten , nes are sed , and ies are ted use of a ure to rly ack , ate , and ize sub - sks .
the ion ods we der
123 ted ork
our rch lds on ier ork ing il - ary nts of ech cts ( rle , 123 ) , and ing uch ech cts to ail and ork - low ing ( rad , 123 , res & lud - low , 123 , ant et al , 123 ) .
rad ted hat rch ing the ech - act sed age - ion ive on man ion uld be sed to ild ore use - ful ols for ing int ies .
the tor ( rad , 123 ) was one uch sys - tem , in ich ers ted ail ges ith nal ons ing ent .
ile uch ems ave een ful in lim - ted xts , hey ave lso een zed as ome : by ing ers to orm to a lar mal tem , hey ain mmu - ion and ake it ess ral ( oop , 123 ) ; in ort , ers ten fer red ail ons ( ino et al .
123 ) .
we ote hat
ese ies are ded if ges can be lly ted by ent , her han ing a ent of ent rom the ser .
shi et al .
( 123 ) sed an ail an - ion eme dly lar to urs , led a ion ree , and an thm for con - ing ion ees lly , but eir ach was not ely ted .
the ach is sed on ing a set of and - ded tic ues .
a ion of eir ach is hat ese and - ded tic ues are age - fic ( and in act ted to ese ext . )
ior rch on ine ing for ext ion has ily red ica - ion of nts by pic ( wis , 23; ang , 123 ) , but lso has sed ent ion ( ang et al . , 23; ibe et al . , 123 ) and au - hip ion ( e . g . , mon et al , 123 ) .
ere has een ome ous use of ine ing to ify ail ges ( hen 23; ami et al . , 23; nie , 23; gal & art , 123 ) .
ver , to our dge , one of ese ems has ted ing ods for ing ail ech cts .
ead , ail is lly ied nto ers ( i . e . , ac - ing to pic ) or ing to her or not it is pam .
ing ems ave een evi - to lly ect cts nal ech ( e . g .
nke et al . , 123 ) .
123 an ogy of ail cts
our ogy of uns and rbs ing ome of the ble ech cts ted ith ils is zed in ure 123
we ume hat a gle ail age may ain ple cts , and hat ach act is bed by a erb - oun air awn rom his ogy ( e . g . , " ver ata " ) .
the ned des in the ure ate the uns and rbs for ich we ave ned las - ers ( as sed in ent ons ) .
to ine the oun and erb ogy of ure 123 , we rst ned ail rom ral ora ( ing our own xes ) to ind egu - ies , and hen med a ore led sis of one pus .
the ogy was her ned in the ess of ing the ora de -
in ing his ogy , we ted ral les .
rst , we eve hat it is ore por -
ant for the ogy to ect ved tic ior han to ect any act iew of the ace of ble ech cts .
as a nce , the omy of rbs ins pts hat are mic lly , but ine ral ocu - ary nts .
( for ple , the tic nit " let ' s do nch " is oth ive , as it sts the ver , and ive , as it tly com - its the der .
in our omy his is a gle ' ose ' act . ) lso , cts ich are tly ble but not ved in our ata are not rep - ted ( for nce , ons ) .
ure 123 omy
ond , we eve hat the omy ust re - ect mon non - tic ses of ail , uch as the use of ail as a ism to ver les .
we ave ped his ith the lly lar ech act of ing ion .
the rbs in ure 123 are ned as ows .
a est sks ( or ers ) the ent to per - orm ome ity .
a ion is lso red a est ( for ery of ion ) .
a ose age ses a int ity , i . e . , sks the ent to orm ome ity and its the der as ell , ded the re - ent ees to the est .
a cal ple is an ail ing a int ing .
an end age nds an ier sal .
ike a sal , the age ves oth a ent and a est .
ver , ile a sal is ted ith a new ask , an ent is a ted ion of an
a mit age its the der to ome ure rse of ion , or rms the ers ' ent to ply ith ome sly bed rse of ion .
a ver age ers ing , e . g . , ome ion , a int ion , the url of a ite , the wer to a ion , a age ent " fyi , or an ion .
the use , eet , and ind rbs red ery tly in our ata , and nce we did not mpt to arn ers for hem ( in his ial udy ) .
the ary son for ing ves in his way was our ion hat man ors uld be wer and ess eli - ble if ven a ore lex omy .
the uns in ure 123 ute ble ob - cts for the ail ech act rbs .
the uns all nto two oad ies .
ion uns are ted ith ail ech cts bed by the rbs ver , re - ind and end , in ich the ail tly ins ion .
we lso ate rma - ion uns ith the erb est , ere the ail ins ead a ion of the ded ion ( e . g . , " ase end our ate . " sus " my ate is " .
the est act is lly for a ' ver ion ' ity ) .
in - ion des ata ved to be act as ell as ons , and lso hed ata les .
ity uns are lly ted ith ail ech cts bed by the rbs pro - ose , est , mit , and use .
ies ude ngs , as ell as ger erm ies uch as tee ips .
ice ery ail ech act is elf an ac - ity .
the un> ode in ure 123 ndi - tes hat any ail ech act can lso rve as
the oun ted ith ome her ail ech act .
for ple , ust as ( ver for - ion ) is a ate ech act , so is ( mit ( ver ion ) ) .
lly uct - ing uch ted ech cts is an ing and ult ic; ver , in the ent per we der nly the lem of ing top - vel the erb for uch nal ech cts .
for nce , for a age ing a ( mit ( ver ion ) ) our oal uld be to lly ect the mit erb but not the ner ( ver ion ) und oun .
123 ion lts
ugh ail is ous , rge and lis - tic ail ora are ely ble for rch ses .
the ted ity is ely due to acy ues : for nce , in ost us aca - mic ons , a ers ail can nly be dis - ted to ers if all ers of the ail lso ded cit ten ent .
the ail ora sed in our nts ist of our ent ail ets ted rom ing ups who ned nts to ake eir ail ble to ers .
the rst ree ets , 123 , 123 , and 123 are ted ets of a ger pus , the ace ail pus , ich ins oxi - ely 123 , 123 ail ges ted rom a ent rse at gie lon ver - ity .
in his rse , 123 mba nts , zed in ely 123 ams of our to six mem - ers , ran ted ies in ent ket ios ver a 123 - eek iod ( aut et al . ) .
123 , 123 and 123 are ons of all ail ges ten by nts rom ree ent ams , and ain 123 , 123 and 123 ent ail ges ely .
the rth set , the pw alo pus , was ted ing a our - day ise ted at sri lly to ate an ail pus .
ing his ime a oup of six ple med ent ork les ( e . g .
ect der , nce ger , her , ive ant , etc ) and med a ber of oup ies .
ere are 123 ail ges in his pus .
ese ail ora are all ask - ted , and ted ith a all ing oup , so it is not ing hat hey ain any ces of the ail cts bed for nce , the ace ora ain an age of out 123 ail rbs per age .
mal sis of her nal xes sts hat his ort of ail is mon for any ity ers .
we eve hat ion of red sks is a cen - ral use of ail in any ork nts .
all ges ere sed by ing ted ial , nts , and non - ect der ion .
his ing was per - med lly , but was ted to ons ich can be bly ted .
the ost ffi - ult tep is val of ted ial , ich we ess ere ( lho & hen , 123 ) .
ach age may be ted ith ral els , as it may ain ral ech cts .
to ate ter - tor ent , we ble - led 123 for the rbs ver , mit , est , end , and ose , and the oun , ing , and ted the ppa tic ( car - tta , 123 ) for ach of ese , ned as
ere a is the cal ity of ent on a ory , and r is the ity of ree - ent for two ors hat bel nts at dom ( ith the lly ved ncy of ach bel ) .
nce ppa ges rom - 123 to 123
the lts in ble 123 how hat ent is ood , but not ect .
ble 123 - ter - tor ent on 123
ook bly - ted ges ich had nly a gle erb bel and con - ted the 123 - ass ion rix for the two ors own in ble 123
ote ppa ues
are hat her for the ter one - act mes -
ble 123 - ter - tor ent on nts ith nly one ory .
123 ity of ies
ion of nts .
to ess the pes of age res hat are ost ant for ion , we ted ort tor ma - nes ( ims , 123 ) as our ine ing hod , and a idf - ted bag - of - rds as a ine ion for ges .
we hen ted a ies of nts ith the 123 pus nly to ore the ect of dif -
123 and 123 all ful res
ble 123 123 for ent ure ets .
we ted hat the ost ing rds for ost of ese ies ere mon rds , not the low - to - ate ncy rds hat are ost ive in cal ion .
his ted hat the idf ing was ate , but hat a ram ion ght be ore ive .
nts wed hat ing ams to an ted bag of rds ion tly ved orm - nce , lly on ver .
ese lts are own in ble 123 on the ows ked no idf and ams .
( the idf - ted svm is own in the row ked ine , and the ma -
ity ier in the row ked lt; all ers are 123 res on 123 - old oss - ion . ) ion of ges ted her ble nts .
nce uch ego - ion ves ing , we ran a and - ded ex - tor for ime and ate ons on the ata , and ted as res the ber of ime ex - ons in a age , and the rds hat oc - red ear a ime ( for nce , one uch ure is the ord ore ars ear a ime ) .
ese lts ear in the row ked mes .
rly , we ran a art of ech ( pos ) ger and ded res for rds ing ear a oun or per oun ( ses in the ble ) , and lso ded pos nts .
to ive a nal ion for ach ate - ory , we led all res hat ved per - nce ver no idf for hat ory .
we hen red nce of ese ent ons to the nal idf bag of rds ine on the ( ned ) 123 and 123 ora .
as ble 123 ows , ial ent ith ect to 123 and ppa was ned by ing ese nal res ver the ine ion .
his ult sts ith ous nts ith ams for opi - cal ext ion ( ott & win , 123 ) and ent ion ( ang et al . , 123 ) .
the nce is bly hat in his ask , ore in - ive rds are lly ous : for nce , ill you and i ill are ted ith sts and nts , ely , but the ual rds in ese ams are ess
ing ods .
in her ent , we xed the ent ion to be un - ted ord ncy nts and ied the ing thm .
in ese nts , we led all the ata rom the our ora , a tal of 123 res in the 123 ges , and nce the uns and rbs are not lly ive , we ted the ask as a set of ral ary ion ems , one for ach erb .
the ing ers ere sed rom the sed on the ird kit ( hen , 123 ) .
vp is an ion of the ted ron thm ( und & ire , 123 ) .
dt is a ple ion ree ing tem , ich rns ees of pth at ost ive , and ses ted by ire and
ger ( 123 ) as an ate ive for eak ers .
ab is an ion of the nce - ted ing hod bed by ger and ire ( 123 ) , sed to ost the dt thm 123 mes .
svm is a ort tor ma - ine ith a ear nel ( as sed ove ) .
ble 123 ing on the ire pus .
ble 123 rts the lts on the ost mon rbs , ing 123 - old oss - ion to ess ac - acy .
one ise was hat dt ( ich we had ded ely as a ase ner for ab ) rks gly ell for ral rbs , ile ab sel - dom ves uch ver dt .
we ure hat the ias rds rge - gin ers hat is wed by svm , ab , and vp ( and ich has een so ful in pic - ted ext ifi - ion ) may be ess ate for his ask , per - aps use ive and ive ses are not rly ted ( as ted by ial
( tal : 123 sgs )
ure 123 - ion / all for ive act
her lts are own in ure 123 - 123 , ich ide ion - all ves for any of ese ses .
the est all vel in ese phs
nds to the ion of dom ing .
ese phs ate hat igh - ion dic - ons can be ade for the top - vel of the erb chy , as ell as rbs est and ver , if one is ing to tly uce all .
( tal : 123 sgs )
ure 123 - ion / all for ive act
( tal : 123 ges )
ure 123 - ion / all of 123 ent ses
ity .
one ant ion in - ves the ity of ese ers : to hat nge of ora can hey be ely ied ? is it ble to ain a gle set of ail - act ers hat ork for any ers , or is it nec - ary to ain ual ers for ach ser ? to ore his sue we ned a dt las - ier for ive ils on the 123 pus , and ted it on the 123 us; ned the ame ier on 123 and ted it on 23; and lso med a 123 - old oss - ion ent hin ach pus .
( 123 and 123 are for int ets of us - ers , but are ely the ame ize . ) we hen med the ame ent ith vp for ver rbs and svm for mit rbs ( in
ach ase ing the top - ing ner ith ect to 123 ) .
the lts are own in ble 123
ble 123 - ity of ers
if ned ers ere hly fic to a lar set of ers , one uld ect hat the nal ies of ese les ( the nes sed on oss - ion hin a pus ) uld ex - bit uch ter nce han the off - nal ies .
in act , no uch ern is own .
for ive rbs , nce is imi - lar oss all ble ies , and for ver and mit , it ems to be hat ter to ain on 123 ess of the est set .
123 ure ons
one of the hms or ons dis - sed ove ake nto unt the ext of an ail age , ich ely is ant in ing cit ech cts .
a ble ion of ext is ply the ing age in an
ing his ext is non - ial for sev - ral ons .
ing ads is lt; al - ugh ail ers ain a ply - to eld , ers ten use the ply ism to art hat is ely a new ead .
lso , nce ail is ous , two or ore ers may ply sly to a age , ing to a ead ure ich is a ree , her han a se - nce .
lly , ost ial ing els ume a gle ory is ned to ach in - cee . g . , ( khi , 123 ) eas our eme ows ple ies .
ion of ils ing to our erb - oun ogy tes a ial ase of a gen - ral ily of ing ems we ght all red ion ems , as the ses
( ail ech cts ) are red nto two res ( rbs and uns ) ich tly ine his ass .
a ety of eal - rld ext ion ems can be lly sed as red ems , and rom a cal int , the nal ure may low ion of new , ore ive hms .
for ple , the red ses ide a ore ate ure for ive bil - tic els , uch as ose med by ave yes .
for nce , in ing ail cts , one ght ume rds ere awn rom a ure ion ith one ure ent pro - ces rds ned on the erb ass tor , and a ond ure ent tes rds ned on the oun ( see lei et al ( 123 ) for a ted ure del ) .
ely , els of the ies een the ent ors ( uns and rbs ) ght lso be sed to ove ion acy , for nce by ing nto a ier the dge hat ome uns and rbs are ble .
the act hat an ail can ain ple ail ech cts ost nly kes arn - ing ore ult : in act , ent een man ors is lly her for ger ges .
his lem uld be sed by ore led ion : her han ing ach age ith all the cts it ins , man ors uld bel ler age nts ( say , ces or phs ) .
an ive to ore led ( and ive ) ion uld be to use ing hms hat tly seg - ent a age .
as an ple , her ure del ion ght be sed , in ich ach ure ent nds to a gle erb
123 ing rks
we ave ted an ogy of ail ech cts hat is ned to ure ome im - ant ies of a ral use of ail : ego - ing and ing int ies .
ike ous pts to ine ech act ory ith ail ( rad , 23; res and low , 123 ) , we ose a tem ich ely ob - ves ail and lly ies it by ion .
his ces the den on the ers of the tem , and ids ing the ity
and lly ble cts of mal , ral
his lem lso ses a ber of est - ing rch ues .
we wed hat ity ex - ion and art of ech ing ves ier nce , but ave pen the ues - ion of her her pes of tic sis uld be ful .
ing ech cts res ext , ich kes ion an tly ial ask , and the els ned to mes - ges ave non - ial re; we lso ave pen the ion of her ese ies can be ely ted .
our nts how hat any ies of ges can be ted , ith igh ion ion ing ods .
his sts hat ful ask - ing ols uld be con - ted sed on tic rsa ten - lly ant cal ion .
all , ing ing
