ing ves the ity to ize rom ast xpe - nce in der to eal ith new ons hat are ted to his nce .
the ive aap ded to eal ith new ons ems to be ble nly der ain ses for ing one ion of the ion ver her .
his per nes ely the ion of ias in iza - ion ems , hen ows hat ses are ary for the ive eap .
ses of ble ses are red , and the hip een ias and ain - nce
we ict the ope of his ion to the lem of
ing rom ing ces , ned as ows :
the ion lem
age of ces .
age of ons .
ing ate for ing ons to in -
ets of ive and ive ing ces .
ion ( s ) ent ith the ing ces .
as a ete ple of the ove ion rob - lem , der the ask sed by ons ram for ing ses of ock res ( ton 123 ) .
ere , the age of ces is the ion sed to de - ibe ple ock res .
the age of ner - ons is the age in ich ned pts ( e . g . , rch , wer ) are bed .
the ing ate ies her a ven ion ies to a ven nce ( e . g . , her the red ion of an rch is sed by a cic ock ure ) .
his per ses a eep lty ith the ral - ion lem as ned ove : if ncy ith the ing ces is ken as the ole ner of pro - ate ons , hen a ram can ver ake the ive eap ary to ify ces ond ose it has ved .
nly if the ram has her ces of in - ion , or ses for ing one ion ver the
ted to nic ion by : oby nes , sas ate
ure 123 : ips ong ces and iza - ons ( his ure was ing rom the nal ion and ded in 123 )
her , can it non - ily ify ces ond ose in the ing set .
in his per , we use the erm ias to fer to any sis for ing one ion ver her , her han ict ncy ith the ved ing ces .
hat is an sed zer
if ion is the lem of ing the ass of in - ces to ich the ive ing ces ong , hen an sed zer is one hat kes no a ori as - ons out ich ses of ces are ost ely , but ses all its ces on the ved ata .
two com - mon ces of ias in ing ing ems are ( 123 ) the ion age is not ble of ing all pos - ble ses of ces , and ( 123 ) the ion oce - ure hat hes ugh the ace of ble ral - ons is elf sed .
an sed ion age in ing ias in the ion age , it is use - ful to iew ach ion as ing the set of in - ces hat it hes .
in ure 123 , for ple , 123 and 123 are two ons ble in ome iza - ion age , and ach hes a ent set of the
ive to a ven uge of ces , an sed ion age is hen one ich ows rib - ing ery ble set of ese ces .
in ort , an
sed ion age nds to the wer set of the ven nce age .
the act of ing a sed ion age is ear : ach set of ces for ich ere is no ess - ble ion is a ept hat uld be ted to the ram , but ich the ram ill be ble to de - ibe and ore ble to arn .
if it is ble to now ead of ime hat ain ets of ces are ant , hen it may be ful to ave ese out of the iza - ion age , in der to ify the ing lem .
for ple , on res of the nce ( e . g . , ( ton 123 ) , ( nan & ell 123 ) ) uce a ong ias of his ind , ich ces bly the ity of the gen -
the gth of the ias ced by ion lan - ges ted to ive nts on res , is ted by a ple ple .
der an nce lan - age of ary ure ors ing 123 res , and a ion age hat ows ing ach fea - ure lue to be 123 , 123 , or ont are .
ome ple ith - tic ows hat nly out one out of ery 123 ets of ces is ble in the ion age .
his ion ens kly as the ber of res and the ber of wed ues per ure ses .
an sed ion ure the ion ure hes for ble gen - ons hat ote ets of ces , ach of ich in - des all of the ive but one of the ive ing in - ces .
of rse , ere may be any uch ons .
in ure 123 , for nce , if the ved ive nes are ned in the ion of the nce ets of 123 and 123 , and the ved ive ces are ide oth ets , hen oth 123 and 123 are ent ith the ved
an sed ion ure is one ich ows no nce for one ble ion ver an - her , ept on the sis of ncy ith the ing
ing ( ell 123 ) , we ene the ion ace ive to a lar ion age , and a ven set of ing ces , as the set of all ble gen - ons ent ith the ing ces .
hen an sed ion ure ust ute the ion ace ive to the ved ing ces , and the pro - ded ion age .
uch a ion oce - ure is bed in ( ell 123 ) , and has een ple - ted as art of the eta - ral ram ( nan & ell 123 ) .
in der to der the ces of an sed gen - ion ure , it is ary to der how a com - ted ion ace can be sed to ify ent in - ces as her ive or ive .
an sed ssi - ion hod ies the new nce as a ive in - nce if and nly if ery ion in the ion ace hes it .
the nce is ied as a ive nce if and nly if no ion in the ion ace hes it .
if ome , but not all , of the ons in the ion ace tch the nce , hen the ane not be las -
ied ith nty .
the ram uld , ver , ive an ted ion sed pon the ion of ner - ons hin the ion ace , hat tch and do not tch the nce .
the ity of ing ses
for a ion tem to be sed for it to con - der lly all ble ets of ces as the ble ity of the ass ing ned it ust loy an nbi - sed ion age , and ute the ion ace ive to hat age and the ted ing ces .
ugh ing all ses rom a ion sys - tem may eem to be a ble oal , in act the ult is rly ess .
an sed ing ems ity to las - ify new ces is no ter han if it ply red all the ing ces and med a kup hen ked to ify a ent nce .
to see hat his is the ase , der the ure de - bed ove for ing the ted ion ace to las - ify new ces .
for an sed ion age , the new nce ill tch ery ion ent ith the ved ces if and nly if it is cal to one of the ved ive ces .
rly , to be ied as a ive nce , the new nce ust be cal to one of the ved ive ces .
ore , any nce hat has not yet red as a ing nce ill tch tly alf the ons in the ion ace .
as a ult , ven the eme bed ove for ing the ion ill ail to uce ful lts .
in ect , it is not ing hat an sed gen - ion tem not ake ons of ces her han the ing ces .
an sed tem is one ose ces lly low rom the ing in - ces , eas ons of the new ces do not lly low rom the ons of the ing in -
ful ses of ses
ere is an ant ion to the ove ion : if lly sed ion ems are ble of ing the ive eap to iza the new ces , hen the wer of a ion tem ows tly rom its ses rom ons sed on ria her han ncy ith the ing ces .
ore , ess ard ing ing sms nds pon ing the ces of , and ion for , ous ses .
his ion ies ain nds of ses hat ave een sed by ing ams .
ual dge of the ain .
in ing ner - ons for a lar ose , it may be ble to mit the ons red , by ing to owl - dge out the ask ain .
the eta - ral ram ( nan & ell 123 ) rms ral les hat har - ize lar nds hat ent in a ass rom - ter .
ere , ral dge of the ain , uch as dou - ble nds ely eak , can be sed to ain the rch for ate ons .
rly , in a ram hat rns the les of all ( way & man 123 ) ,
sed ion ams hat use ncy ith the ing ces as eir nly rce of ion , not orm ams hat use ote ing .
ddi - nal ion or ses are ore cal to the bil - ity to ify ces hat are not cal to the ing ces .
his act has ant ons for rch on ine ing .
if ses and ial dge are at the art of the bil - ity to ize ond ved ata , hen rts to udy ine ing ust cus on the ned use ior dge , ses , and ion in ing the ing ess .
it uld be ise to ake the ses and eir use in ing ing ust as cit as ast rch has ade the ons and eir use .
the ing ple ave ded ful nts on ous fts of his per , and ave ted eir own eas : aul rel , rge tal , n . s .
ran , and aul off .
his ork was ted by nih ant rr - 123 - 123 , and by an ard rom the ers rch oun -
