the rld ide web is a ast rce of ion ble to ers , but ble nly to ans .
the oal of the rch bed ere is to lly ate a ter ble dge ase ose ent ors hat of the rld ide web .
uch a owl - dge ase uld ble uch ore ive val of web ion , and ote new ses of the web to ort dge - sed nce and lem ing .
our ach is to lop a ble ion ion tem hat kes two uts .
the rst is an ogy hat nes the ses ( e . g . , any , son , yee , uct ) and ons ( e . g . , yed . by , ced . by ) of est hen ing the dge ase .
the ond is a set of ing ata ing of led ons of ext hat ent ces of ese ses and ons .
ven ese uts , the tem rns to act ion rom her ges and nks on the web .
his per bes our ral ach , ral ine ing hms for his ask , and ing ial lts ith a ype tem hat has ted a dge ase ing ity ple , ses , and rch cts .
his rch has een ted in art by the rpa pkb ram der rch act 123 - 123 - 123 - 123
the ews and ons ned in his ent are ose of the ors and uld not be ted as ing the ial ies , her sed or ied , of rpa or the
tic ity ted 123
rds : ion ion , ine ing , rld ide web , dge
ses , web der , ext ion , nal ing .
the ity 123
iew of the bkb tem 123
lem ion 123
tal bed 123
ing to ize ass ces 123
cal ext ion 123
ach 123
tal ion 123
rst - der ext ion 123
ach 123
tal ion 123
ing ers 123
ach
tal ion 123
ing lti - age nts 123
ach 123
tal ion ; 123
ion ary 123
ing to ize ion ces 123
lem ion 123
ing ods 123
tal ion 123
ing to act ext lds 123
ach 123
tal ion
ted ork 123
ent ion 123
ion ion 123
ing tic ion rom ext 123
ing dge ses rom the web 123
web nts 123
ons and ure ork 123
a ing ore nly ted res rom ive yes 123
the ity
the ise of the rld ide web has ade it ble for our ion to eve ver 123 , 123 , 123 web ges for our nal sal .
the web has ady ome one of the est and ost rse ces of ion on the net , and any ect it to row nto the rld ' s ary dge rce ver the ext ade .
the rch bed ere is ted by a ple ion : ugh our ork - ion can tly eve ver 123 , 123 , 123 web ges , it tly nds one of ese web ges .
the oal of our bkb rch ect is to lly ate a ter - ble dge ase ose ent ors hat of the rld ide web .
uch a " rld ide dge ase " uld ist of ter ble as - ons in lic , tic orm ( e . g . , yed . by ( ven , niv ) , ty= . 123 ) .
we ect uch a rld ide dge ase uld ave any ses .
at a mum , it uld low uch ore ive ion val by ing ies uch as " ind all ies hin 123 les of rgh hat fer ing ses on ava ing . " ing a tep her , it uld ble new ses of the web to ort dge - sed nce and lem ing .
for ple , it uld ide the owl - dge ase ded by a are vel ent hat ght dle sts uch as " ake me tel and ght nts for the ing acm nce . " ice hat ion out the acm nce , rby els , and hts is ady ble in man - ble orm , ead oss ple ext ges on the web .
a dge ase hat kes his in - ion ter - ble uld ort a ety of ent dge - sed
how ght we uct and ain uch a rld ide dge ase ? the sis red in his per is hat one can lop uch a dge ase by ( 123 ) ing ine ing to ate ion ion ods for ach of the red pes of owl - dge , hen ( 123 ) ing ese ned ion ion ods to act lic , tic nts tly rom web ext .
ach ion in the dge ase can ore rry ith it a ion , in rms of the web ces and ion ion hod , hat ide its ial ort .
as the web ves ver ime , the ent ity of dge ase cts can be ted by ing eir ued ial
his per res the ove sis by ing and ing ral ing lgo - hms ant to his ion ion ask , and by ing the ype we - bkb tem ich has lly ilt up a dge ase ing ral and ons out ter nce nts ing ese ned ion ors .
we gin by fly ing the ies of the bkb tem in the ext ion .
the ent ion ers in ail the nal ons ing our ach .
the ing ons ent our tal bed , ral ing lgo - hms and tal lts for the ous ion ion sks , ted ork ,
( " als of cs ome age
ors . of : jim , tom
rch : her ect
! ses . ght . by : und , of cs , . . .
als of cs ome age
jim ' s ome age
i ach ral ses : - als of cs .
my rch des
ent web nts
ure 123 : the uts and uts of the web kb tem .
the top art of the ure ows an ogy hat nes the ses and ons of est .
the tom art ows two web ges ied as ing les of the ses rse and lty .
her , ese two ges lso ute a ing ple for the ons ors . of and ses . ght . by .
ven the ogy and a set of ing ata , bkb rns to ret nal web ges and nks to add new ces to the dge ase , uch as ose own in the dle of the ure .
iew of the bkb tem
the bkb tem is rst ned to act ion of the red pes , and is hen wed to wse new web tes in der to lly ate a dge ase ith new ons .
hen ing his tem , the ser ust ide two uts :
a ion of the ses and ons of est .
his is the ogy hat nes the ary for the get dge ase .
an ple of uch an ogy is ded in the top alf of ure 123
his lar ogy nes a chy of ses ing son , ent , rch . ect , rse , etc .
it lso nes ons een ese ses uch as ors . of ( ich tes an nce of a ent to the ces of lty who are the ors of the ven ent ) .
his ogy tes the ial ion of the dge ase .
ing les hat ibe ces of the ogy ses and ons .
for ple , the two web ges own at the tom of ure 123 ent ces of rse and lty ses .
ore , his air of ges nts an nce of the ion ses . ght . by ( i . e . , the ses . ght . by jim des men -
ven uch an ogy and a set of ing les , the bkb tem rns ral res for ing new ces of ese ses and ons rom the web .
in the ent ype , his is hed by ing to ify ary web ges and ink ths ing to the ses and ons ned by the ogy .
hen ing the web , the bkb tem rts rom a ven put url and res ges ing a dth - rst rch to low nks .
ach red age is ned , ing ned ass ons , to see if it nts a ber of one of the ogy ses .
if a age is a ass ber , an ity ing hat age is ced nto the dge ase , and the ogy ons for hat age are ted sed on ned les and the own cal ure of the web .
if a age is not a ass ber , the rch is ted , and nks rom his age are not wed .
in one uch ing ent the tem was ven a ing set of ely 123 , 123 web ges and 123 , 123 web - age irs ken rom the ter nce ent web tes at our ies ( ell , ity of xas at tin , ity of ton , and ity of sin ) .
ese ing les ere and led ing to the ogy own in ure 123
the tem was hen wed to ore the web ite of a fth ter nce ent ( at gie lon ity ) , and to add new dge ase ies sed on ion ted rom his new web ite .
two new ces ded by the tem to its dge ase , as a ult of ing his new ity web ite , are own in ure 123
the top nce bes a new lty ded to the dge ase , as a ult of ing a web age hat the tem ied nto his ory .
as a ult , the tem ted the new lty nce in the dge ase , and ted ral ons ing his nce .
for ple , it ned ( cor - tly ) the ame of his lty ber , a rse ght by the lty ber , and ree
( ame " vid lan " )
( ers . of . ect ( get - el* vid - an* lph - on*
ure 123 : two of the ies lly ted rom the cmu ter nce ent web ite ter ing on our her ity ter nce tes .
ese ies are ded as new ces of lty and ect to the dge ase own in ure 123
ent lty son rch . ect rse ent all
ble 123 : ass nce ion acy hen ing cmu ter nce ent web ite , ter ing on ter nce ent at our her ies .
ces of the cts . of ion for his lty ber : ral - ch* , cmu - cs - ble - are - ems - 3me - ge* , and ble - ct* .
ese ree cts are ves ces of the rch . ect ass , ted rom her web ges .
the ion of one of ese , the ble - 123 ct* , is own at the tom of the
how ate is the tem in ing uch ion ? in his ent , the tem ted 123 web ges at the new gie lon ite , and as a ult ded 123 new ass ces to its dge ase .
the ion of tly ted ces is zed in ble 123
for ple , his ble tes hat the tem ted 123 new dge ase ces of the ass rse .
of ese 123 new ces , 123 in act ted ses and the her 123 did not .
its acy in ing ion ces is zed in a lar ion in ble 123
ote hat nce we don ' t ave a ing for all the ges and ons at gie lon , we ave no way of ing age lts for ese sks .
ure 123 ows the ion yed by the tem as it ses .
ote his lay ows the web age hat is tly ing ted ( top ght ) , and the ion ted by the tem rom his web age ( dle eft ) .
the ace lso ins a rol nel
aa* tlf kt 23i iia -
dit tew go rks ons ory dow
t - ^ a t w ( pen i int ; fmd
! i nei
hat ' s hew ? ) hat ' s ool ? - ons net rch plp in>
and : iie aek |su ? p ( uit
tkb ? vf# t|> / j ' vww . e# . siu , cfu / 23o
rim l .
lum ate sor of ter nce
ent of ter nce gie lon ity rgh pa 123 - 123
ice : ean 123 tel : ( 123 ) 123 - 123
me kte tcn : w<g , eb , c
tf^ *s lty ith ers - 123
my ean res rch sts are ine ing ory , ion hms , and on - ine hms .
i lso am dng lan .
a aph - for ips - ike ins .
i was tly ram tee co - air for olt ' 123 ( the nth ual nce on nal l ing ory ) , and on the pro ram c tee for oda ' 123 ( the hth ual acm - iam ium on ete chy iig u . tty
lty nas 123 ses und : 123 3et ' un* 123
ure 123 : the web ace to the web kb tem .
the per eft ane ves as a rol nel .
the dle eft ane bes the ent ity of the web kb tem , and the wer eft nes zes the ion .
the per ght ane ows the age tly ing sed , and the wer ght ane des a ism for ing the ted dge ase .
ors . of ers . of .
ect ent . of all
ble 123 : ion nce ion acy hen ing cmu ter nce ent web ite , ter ing on ter nce ent at our her ies .
hat ows the ser to act ith the tem ( top eft ) , and to wse the ing dge ase ( tom ght ) .
lem ion
as zed in the ous ion , the bkb tem des tal ort for our sis hat a tem can be ned to lly ate a dge ase by ing web ext .
ter ons ibe in ail the ing hms sed by his bkb tem .
in his ion , we der the ise lem ion and the nal ons hat lie our ent ach .
to ize , we are ted in the ing ral lem :
- an ogy hat nes the ses ( e . g . , son ) and ons ( e . g . , tor . of )
- ing les rom the web hat ibe ces of ese ses and ela -
- ral res ble of ing nal ces of ese ses and
ons by ing the est of the web .
ote hat we do not ily act new ces for all of the ses and ons in the ogy .
for ple , our ogy may ave a ass try ong ith ces for all of the ies in the rld .
in his ase , nce we ady now all ces , we do not eed to arn res to ize new nes .
to sue the lem of ing to act ces rom the web , we ust ake ome ons out the pes of dge to be ted rom the web , and the way in ich his dge is ted in ext on the web .
ese ion are :
ons out how ass ces are bed on the web .
we ume hat ach nce of an ogy ass is ted by one or ore ous nts of ext on the web .
by " ous ent of ext " we ean her a gle web age , or a ous ing of ext hin a web age , or a ion of ral web ges ted by nks .
for ple , an nce of a son ght be bed by a gle age ( the son ' s ome age ) , or by a nce to the son in a ing of ext hin an ary web age , or by a ion of ted web ges hat tly ibe the son .
ons out how ion ces are bed on the web .
der an ar - ary nce r ( a , b ) of a ion r .
we ume hat ach nce of a ion is ted on the web in one of ree ays .
rst , the nce r ( a , b ) may be ted by a ent of ext hat cts the ent ing a to the ent ing b .
for ple , the tom of ure 123 ows two nks hat ect the ent ing jim ith the ent ing men - als . of . cs .
ese nks ent the ion tor . of ( als . of . cs , jim ) .
ond , the nce r ( a , b ) may ely be ted by a ous ent of ext ing a hat ins the ent hat nts b .
for xam - ple , the ion nce rch . of ( jim , man . ter . ion ) is ted in ure 123 by the act hat jim ' s ome age ins the ase " man ter in - ion " in a lar ext .
lly , the nce r ( a , b ) may be ted by the act hat the ext ent for a ies ome ned del for ess to b .
for ple , we ght act the nce rch . of ( jim , ial . nce ) by ing jim ' s age ing a cal del of the rds lly und in ges ing ai rch .
in ion to ese ons out the ing een web ext and the ogy , we ake ral ing ons in our ial rch ted in his per .
we lan to lax the ing ons in the ure as our rch ses .
we ume in his per hat ach ass nce is ted by a gle web age ( e . g . , a son is ted by eir ome age ) .
if an nce ens to be bed by ple ges ( e . g . , if a son is bed by eir ome age lus a ion of ing ges ing eir ons , ies , etc . ) , our ent tem is ned to ify nly the ary ome age as the ion of the son , and to ore the ing ted ges .
ely , if an nce ens to be bed by a ext ent , our tem oes not tly ate a dge ase nce for his .
it oes , ver , act ain ion ues rom uch ext nts ( e . g . , the ame of the son , as ted in ure 123 ) .
we ume hat ach ass nce is ted by a gle ous ent of ext .
in her rds , if the tem ers two non - ous web ges hat ent ces of the ame ass , it tes two nct ces of his ass in its dge ase .
ile his ion ill ten be ied ( e . g . , two nct nal ome ges lly ent two nct ple ) , ere are rly
ons ( e . g . , ere are any ent web ges ing vis ) .
ing his " ple vis lem " ill ire ods hat ize ces een tly red ces .
we ume hat all ons are two - ace ns; hat is , ' ach ion has nly two nts .
we eve hat it ill be rly asy to lax his ion .
ven his lem ion and our ent set of ons , we iew the ing as the ree ary ing sks hat are ved in ing dge - ase ces rom the web :
ing ass ces by ing ies of ext .
ion 123 oks at his lem , ing oth cal and nal ing ues .
it lso nes how to lax our ion out ass ces ing ted by gle web
ing ion ces by ing ins of nks .
ion 123 sti -
tes a nal ing ion to his lem .
ing ass and ion ces by ing all lds of ext rom web
ion 123 oks at his ask and lso ses a nal ing ach .
tal bed
all nts ted in his per are sed on the ogy for ter nce nts own in ure 123
his ogy des the ses ent , lty , aff , ent , rch . ect , and rse .
our web age ion nts lso use the ass her as the bel for web ges hat all nto one of ese ogy ses .
ach ogy ass has an ted set of ots , or ons , hat ist ong ces of his ass and her ass ces in the ogy .
for ple , the rse ass has a lot led ors . of hat tes ses to ple .
we led two ata 123 for the nts ted ere .
the rst is a set of ges and nks awn rom our cs nts : ity of xas at tin , ell ity , ity of ton , and ity of sin .
the ond is a set of ges rom ous her ter nce nts .
the our - ent set des 123 , 123 ges and 123 , 123 nks ing hem .
the ond set des 123 , 123 nal ges .
the ges for ost of the ses in our ata set ere ted ing " dex " ges for our ses of est ( e . g . , a age hat has nks to all of the nts in a ent ) , so ing his ata was ard .
ter ing his ial set of ges , we hen ted ery age hat was oth ( i ) ted to by a ink
123 ese ata ets are cly ble at ttp : / / www .
edu / af s / cs .
edu / ect / heo - 123 /
in the ial set , and ( ii ) rom the ame ity as the age ing to it .
ost of the ges red in the ond tep ere led as her .
in ion to ing ges , we lso and - led ion ces .
ach of ese ion ces sts of a air of ges ing to the ass ces ved in the ion .
for ple , an nce of the ors . of ion sts of a rse ome age and a son ome age .
our ata set of ion ces ses 123 ors . of ces , 123 ers . of . ect ces , and 123 ers . of . ent ces .
ese ces are all rom the our - ent set .
lly , we lso led the ame of the ner of ges in the son ass .
his was one lly by ing any ext ent in the son ' s ome age hat hed the ame as it red in the ink ing to the age rom the dex age .
the ing ics ere ive , ing ion ver all .
tly , we eve hat , ugh ome ame ces ere sed , ere ere no lse ves .
rom 123 son ges , his ure ded 123 nct ame ces .
ese ces are all rom the our - ent set as ell .
for all of the ent nts in his per , we use a our - old oss - ion ogy to ate our hms .
we uct our uns in ich we ain ers ing ata rom ree of the ies in our ata set ( lus the ond set of ges ere ble ) , and est the ers ing ata rom the ing ity .
on ach ion we old out a ent ity for the est set .
ing to ize ass ces
the rst ask for our tem is to ify new ces of ogy ses rom the ext ces on the web .
in his ion we ess the ase in ich ass ces are pre - ted by web es; for ple , a ven nce of the ent ass is ted by the ent ' s ome age .
in the rst art of his ion we uss a cal bag - of - rds ach to ssi - ing web ges .
we use his hod ong ith ree ent ons of ges .
in the ond art of his ion we uss ing rst - der les to ify web ges .
his ach is ing in hat rst - der les can ibe age ses ing a ich de - ion of the cal aph ure und the age .
lly , we ate the ess of ing the ons ade by all our of ese ers .
cal ext ion
in his ion we der ing web ges ing cal ods .
our ach is lar to a ing ody of ork in ext ion hat ves ing a so - led bag of rds or ram ion .
ver , we ply our hod in vel ays hat ake age of the ncy of ext .
lly , we ain ree ent ers
ich use ent ons for age ion :
ull - ext : the rds hat cur ere in the age ,
tle / ing : the rds hat cur in the tle and tml ngs of the age ,
ink : the rds hat cur in nks ( i . e . , the rds in the hor ext ) hat
int to the age .
our ach ves ing a tic del of ach ass ing led ing ata , and hen ing wly een ges by ing the ass hat is ost ble ven the nce of rds ing the new age .
the hod hat we use for ing web ges is ive yes , ith nor ons sed on ack - ler nce .
ven a ent d to ify , we ate a ore for ach ass c as ows :
ere n is the ber of rds in d , t is the ize of the ary , and w ( is the tth ord in the ary .
pr ( i\c ) hus nts the ity of ing to , - ven a ent rom ass c , and pr ( i\d ) nts the ncy of nce of w ( in ent d .
the ass ted by the hod for a ven ent is ply the ass ith the est ore .
his hod kes tly the ame ons as ive yes , but ces ion res hat are ess eme .
low we ain ive es; in dix 123 we ail our ons to it .
the tic els we use ore the nce in ich the rds cur .
ese els are ten led ram or bag - of - rds els use hey are sed on ics out gle rds in ion .
nce the ram del ely mes hat the nce of ach ord in a ent is lly ent of all her rds in the the ent ven its ass , his ach , hen sed ith yes ule is ten led ive yes .
the nce as - ion is rly lse , and it ces sly ect ass - hip ies .
ver , it is ten the ase hat ven hen the ion oes not old and ive yes ces ate ity tes , it ill is ble to ify est les ith igh
ere are two mon hes to ive yes ext ion .
one , the lti - ate lli del , is a ian ork ith no ies een rds and ary ord ts; the ent is red to be the " ent " and the rds are res
hat ent .
the her ach , the ial del , is a ram age del ith ger ord ts; the rds are red to " nts " and the ent is sed of a ion of ese nts .
we use the ond ach , nce it has een und to out - orm the rst on ral ata ets ( 123 ) .
we ate ive yes for ext ion as ows .
ven a set of ses c = ( ci , . . . |c| ) and a ent ing of n rds , ( wi , 123 , . . . wn ) , we ify the ent as a ber of the ass , c , hat is ost ble , ven the rds in the ent :
c = cpr ( |ti , . . . , t ( ;n )
we orm pr ( iii , . . . , wn ) nto a ble ion by dly ing yes ule to the ual rds in pr ( |wi , . . . , wn ) ( eq .
123 ) and ing hat rds are nde - ent of ach her ( eq .
we lso rop the tor ( eq .
123 ) , nce his erm is a ant oss all ses .
pr ( 123 , . . . , wn ) = pre ) ) . ) . - ; r ~ ( 123 )
" pr ( iu , - |c ) , . , - pr ( c ) il p / \ ( 123 )
oc pr ( c ) klc ) ( 123 )
the ons hat orm his nal ion of ive yes nto the orm
we use ( own in ion 123 ) are bed in dix 123
ing ord ies
a key tep in ing ive yes is ing the ord ies , pr ( to , - |c ) .
to ake our ity tes ore ust ith ect to tly red rds , we use a ing hod to ify the ies hat uld ave een ned by ple ent ing .
one ant ect of ing is hat it ids ing ity ues of ero to rds hat do not cur in the ing ata for a lar ass .
nce ive yes ves ing a uct of ord ies , a gle ero for a ass uld ent hat ass rom ing the mum ven if ere are any her rds hat gly ate hat ass .
her han ing ith the mon ace tes ( i . e . , ing one to all the ord nts for a ass ) , we use ten - ell ing ( 123 ) , ich we ave und to orm ter on ral ata ets .
ten - ell ets pr ( to , - |c )
ere at ( iw , - , c ) is the unt of the ber of mes ord wi urs in the ing ata for
ass c , tc is the tal ber of que rds in ass c , and t is the tal ber of que rds oss all ses .
her ant ion sue is ing pon the ary ize to be sed for the lem ain .
we ave und lly hat we get tly ore ate ons hen ing a ted ary ize .
hus we mit our ary to 123 rds in all of our nts .
the ary is ted by ing rds ing to eir age ual ion ith ect to the ass els .
we ite w ( for a dom ble ing her ord to , - is ent or ent in a ent , and ite v ( ( wu ^wi ) for the ues it kes on .
we ite c for a dom ble ing ues of all the ass els , c <e c .
hen , age ual ion is
i ( ;wi ) = h ( c ) - h ( \wi ) ( 123 ) = - epr ( c ) log ( pr ( c ) ) ( 123 )
- - e pr ( 123 ) p^k ) log ( pr ( ck ) ) ( 123 )
e ieg f^f . ) ( io )
his ure ion hod has een und to orm est ong ral nat
( 123 ) , and has een sed in any ext ion ies ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
tal ion
we ate our hod ing the oss - ion ogy bed in ion 123
on ach ion of the oss - ion run , we ain a ier for ach of the age pre - ons bed at the ing of his ion : ull - ext , tle / ing , and ink .
ble 123 ows the ing ion rix ( med ver the our est ets ) for the ull - ext ers .
ach umn of the rix nts one ass and ows how the ces of his ass are ied .
ach row nts the ces hat are ted to ong to a ven ass , and ows the rue ses of ese ces .
his ble tes ral ing lts .
rst , ote hat for ost ses , our ers are ite ate .
for ple , 23% of the rse and 23% of the lty ces are tly ied .
the ble ion to his end is the her ss; nly 23% of the ces ing to his ass are tly ied .
we uss his ult in ore ail low .
a ond est - ing ult is hat any of the ing kes ade by the ers lve ing ent ses of son .
for ple , ugh nly 23% of the aff ces are tly ned to the aff ory , 23% of hem are tly ied nto the ore ral ass of son .
as his ult sts , not all kes are lly ul; ven hen we ail to tly ify an nce nto one of the eaf ses in our ogy , we
123 - > o <u . c u k .
123 123 123 123 123 123
v - 123 o
ble 123 : a ion rix ing ull - ext ion lts ned oss all of the our - ity est uns .
the all age and acy are lso own .
can ill ake any ect ces out the nce if we tly ign it to a ore
the low vel of ion acy for the her ass is ely ned by the ure of his ass .
all rom ion 123 hat the ces of his ass ere ted by ing ges hat ere one ink way rom the ces in the her six ses .
for his son , any of the ces of the her ass ave ent , and nce ord ics , ery lar to ces in one of the " ore " ses .
for ple , eas the ome age for a rse ill ong to the rse ass , " ary " ges for the rse , uch as a age ing ing nts , ill ong to the her ass .
ugh the ent of any of the ges in the her ass ght est hat hey rly ong in one of the ore ses , our ion for not ing hem in ese ses is the ing .
hen our tem is ing the web and ing new ces to the dge ase , we ant to ure hat we do not add ple ces hat ond to the ame eal - rld ect .
for ple , we uld not add two new ces to the dge ase hen we ter a rse ome age and its ary age ing the ing nts .
use of his ent , we ave med our age ion ask as one of tly ing the " ary " ges for the ses of est .
as ble 123 tes , his is a ery ult ask , but as we ill how tly , by ing ral ces of nce for ach age , it is one we can orm ith igh acy .
one way to ain ght nto the ned ers is to ask ich rds ute ost hly to the ity rec ( d ) for ach ass .
to ure his , we sed one of our
ble 123 : the top ten ost hly ted rds .
for ach ass , the ble ows the ten rds hat are ost hly ted by one of our ned ull - ext els .
the hts own ent the ted log - dds tio of the rds ven the ass .
the bol d is sed to ent an ary git .
for ple , the top ord own for the lty ass , ddd , nts any our - git ken ( uch as hat ing in a one ber ) .
ing ets to ate
for ach ord wi and ass c .
ure 123 ows the ten rds for ach ass hat ave the est lue of his ted log - dds tio .
as the ble tes , ost of the hly ted rds are ely cal for eir ass .
the ons to his ral - ion are tly rom the aff ass , for ich ere is tle ing ata , and the her ass , ich nts an ely rse set of ges .
her ing ult ted by his ble is hat any rds ich are ven - lly ded in top 123 are hly ted by our els .
for ple , the rds my , me , and am are cal top - ist rds but hey are ong the top ten rds for the ent ass .
ugh ese are mon rds , hey are rly ive of the ent ass nce rst - son uns and erb ons do not ear tly on ges in the her ses .
his ult sts hat it is ous to ect a ary in a ain fic way ( as we did ing ual ion ) , ead of ing a ral ose
one ach to ing ion acy is to mit the ons ade by the ers to ust ose ons in ich hey are ost ent .
his is ily ved ith our hod use the ity rec ( d ) ted hen ing a age can be ken as a ure of the nce in the ion .
by ing a mum old on his nce , we can ect a int hat ces ome age in der to ain sed acy .
ven our oal of lly ing dge ase ion rom the web , it is ble to gin ith a igh - acy ier , ven if we eed to mit age to nly 23% of the 123 , 123 , 123 ges ble on the web .
the ect of ing off age for acy ing our ull - ext ers is own in ure 123
the tal xis on his lot nts age : the age of ges for a ven ass hat are tly ied as ing to the ass .
the cal xis nts acy : the age of ges ied nto a ven ass hat are lly ers of hat ass .
to and ese lts , der , for ple , the ass ent .
as the lts in ble 123 how , hen the ers ict hat a age ngs to the ent ass hey are ect 23% of the ime .
the ost int on the ent rve in the ble 123 nds to his int .
as we ise the nce old for his ass , ver , the acy of our ons ses .
for ple , at a age of 23% , acy hes a vel of 23% .
so far , we ave sed the lts nly for the ull - ext ers .
res 123 and 123 how the acy / age ves for the ink and tle / ing ers , ely .
as ore , ese ves how the ate lts for all our est ets in our oss - ion
123 a top ist is a set of rds hat are ved rom nts ore hey are sed by an ion - val or ext - ion tem .
ere are ard top sts ich ude rds lly ght to vey tle ion out the ent pic .
rch .
ect *
ure 123 : acy / age off for ull - ext ers .
ons hin ach ass are red ing to eir nce .
ach rve ows the ior of the ier as a old on his nce is ied .
the z - xis nts the age of ges for a ven ass hat are tly ied ing to the ass .
the j / - xis nts the age of ges ned to a ven ass hat lly ers of hat ass .
23% 23% 23%
ure 123 : acy / age off for ink ers .
>> i 123
uyo 123 123 123 123
ent - +
23% : l k .
\ " el . .
*
\ \ " b ,
b - ^ - - b - q .
' * o n n " ^fi , .
123 ^ v - v - $t^ * x . . .
\ ia
" x - x \
x \ \
; < 123 123 123 123 123
ure 123 : acy / age off for tle / ing ers .
as we sed ier , one of the cts hat hes ing in ext rom ing in lat - ext ins is hat ext des ple , hat ent ces of nce for the ing of a ven ece of ext .
as we zed , the lts in res 123 and 123 ate hat ese ple ces of nce can be lly ted to ake ter ons .
der , for ple , the acy of the ent ons ade by the ink ers .
eas the ull - ext ers are nly 23% ate at ull age , the hy - ink ers are 23% ate .
ver , the ent acy / age rve for the ink ers is mly ior to the rve for the ull - ext ers .
the son for his nce in acy is hat ugh our ata set des few ent ges rom ich to ize , it des any nks hat int to ent ges .
hus the ink ers ave ely rge les of ata rom ich to arn the ord ics of nks hat int to ent ges , and rly hey ave a rly rge ber of nks on ich to ase eir ion hen ing a age ter
the tle / ing ers lso ate ses in ich ing a ext - sed pre - ion for age ion can ult in ter ive acy han ply ing a lat - ext ion .
the tle / ing ers ' rve for oth the lty and re - rch . ect ses , for ple , are ter han the ing ves for the ull - ext ers at age els of 23% and ess .
one ion for his ult is hat les and ngs ide ing of a ary of a ven age and hus end to ain rds hat are hly ive of the age ' s ass .
rst - der ext ion
as ted sly , the ext ure of the web can be ght of as a aph in ich web ges are the des of the aph and nks are the ges .
the ods for ing web ges hat we sed in the ous ons der the rds in her a gle ode of the aph or in a set of ges ing on the ame ode .
ver , ese ods do not low us to arn els hat ake nto unt uch res as the ern of ity und a ven age , or the rds ing in ing ges .
it ght be ble to arn , for ple , a ule of the orm " a age is a rse ome age if it ins the rds ook and ta and is ked to a age hat ins the ord ent . " les of his ype , hat are ble to ent ral ics of a aph , ire a rst - der ion .
in his ion , we der the ask of ing to ify ges ing a ner hat is ble to uce rst - der les .
the ing thm hat we use in his ion is lan ' s oil thm ( 123 , 123 ) .
oil is a edy ing thm for ing ion - ree orn 123
oil ces ach orn use by ing ith an pty ail and ing a ill - ing rch to add als to the ail til the use ers nly ( tly ) ive ces .
the ion ion sed for the ill - ing rch is an ion - tic ure .
the ion we ide to the ing thm sts of the ing ack -
orc ? ( age ) : his set of ons ate ich rds cur in ich ges .
ach ean ion tes the ges in ich the ord ord urs .
the ary for his set des 123 rds hat ave at ast 123 ces but hat do not cur in ore han 23% of the ing - set ges .
ese two nts ere ted ith the ion of ing a ary of ble ize hat uld ely ude the rds ith the ost ion wer .
we had een 123 and 123 of ese tes in ach of the oss - ion uns .
_to ( age , age ) : his ion nts the nks hat ect the ges in the ata set .
we ply oil to arn a ate set of ses for six of the ven ses red in the ous 123
we do not arn a ion of the her ass , but ead eat it as a ult ass .
3we use the rms use and ule bly
ing ers to the ess of lly ing rds to eir oot orm .
for ple the rds
ute , ers and ing uld be med to the oot put .
ere is a ion of oil lly ned for lti - ass ems uch as urs .
we und , ver ,
hat the ive ias of his ion is not ell ted to our lar ask .
hen ing est ces , we ate an ted ure of nce ong ith ach ion .
we ate ese nce ues for two ons .
rst , we use hem to lve ing ons rom our six tly ned ule ets .
ond , we are ted in ing how the acy of our ned ule ets ies as we ust
we use the ing ure to ate the nce of ach of our ons .
rst , we ate the ror ate of ach of our ned ses by ing an m - ate ( 123 ) ( ith m = 123 ) of the ule ' s ror ver the ing les .
we hen use ese res to ort the ses in der of ing acy . 123 to ate the ons of our six tly ned ers , we use the ing ure :
if no ier had a ule hat hed the ven age , hen we ict her ith
if nly one ier had a ing ule , hen we ict the ted ass ith con - nce ing to the ule ' s ore .
the her ass is ted ith nce of one nus his ore .
if ore han one ier has a ing ule for the ven ple , hen we ict ach ass ith nce ual to the ore of its est ing ule ded by the tal ber of ers hat had ing les .
the her ass is ted ith a nce lue hat uld ake the tal nce sum to one .
tal ion
for the nts ted ere , we sed ase 123 of oil ith the ult ngs .
as ith the nts in ion 123 , we use a our - old oss - ion ogy .
the ing acy / age lot for ach ass is own in ure 123
ing ese lts to ose in ure 123 , one can see hat ugh the rst - der les lly ide wer age han the cal ers , hey ide ior acy for ral ses .
ure 123 ows ree of the 123 ned by oil in its ous oss - ion uns .
the ned ule for rse own ere tes the wer of a rst - der ion .
his ule ies a age as the ome age for a rse if it ses ree ups of sts :
the age has the ord tor , but esn ' t ave the ord ood .
his nge oes not ect the ons ade by a ned set of ses .
it cts nly our
nce ted ith ach ion .
out the per , we use a log - ike tax for ned les .
the bol : - nts the ion tor , ith the ead of the ule on the eft ide of the tor and the ody on the ght ide .
nts , uch as the mes of our ogy ses and ons , art ith ase ers .
les art ith ase ers .
ure 123 : acy / age off for oil age ers .
the age ins a ink to a age ich oes not ain any nks to
his ked age ins the ord ign .
his rul can be zed as ows :
ict hat a age is a rse ome age if it has the ord tor and is ked to a eaf age ich lks out nts .
the ple ule ned for the ent ass mes rom the oss - ion run ing ges rom the ity of ton out of the ing set .
ice hat his ule ers to a age ( und to the ble b ) hat has two mon rst mes on it ( aul and ame , the med ion of mes ) .
his ule ( and lar les ned ith the her ree ing ets ) tes hat oil has ned to oit " ent ory " ges in der to ify ent ome ges .
for ple , hen ton is the est set , all of the ect ons of the ule ind b to a age led " ate nts at uw s&e " .
the lty ule ill not ify a age as lty ess ere is a age ing the med ant of lty hat nts nto the ven age .
all ree of ese les how how web - age ion is ent rom ary ext ion in hat ing ges may ide ong nce out the ass of a ven age .
ing ods ich can use his ion ely uld orm ter han ard ues in his ain .
ent ( a ) : - not ( has . afa ( a ) ) , not ( erc ( a ) ) , _to ( b , a ) , s_j ' ame ( b ) , bas . aul ( b ) , not ( 123 ( b ) ) .
ing set : 123 pos , 123 eg; est set : 123 pos , 123 neg
lty ( a ) : - pro / sor ( a ) , s_p / ? ( a ) , _to ( b , a ) , as_ / acw ( b ) .
ing set : 123 pos , 123 eg; est set : 123 pos , 123 neg
rse ( a ) : - tor ( a ) , not ( o<i ( a ) ) , _to ( a , b ) , not ( _to ( b , _l ) ) , has - ign ( b ) .
ing set : 123 pos , 123 eg; est set : 123 pos , 123 neg
ure 123 : a few of the les ned by oil for ing ges .
ing ers
the ous nts how hat the est ion for age ion nds on the ass .
his ion sts hat it ght be ble to ine the ons ade by our our ers .
in his ion , we ibe and ate a ple ach to
the hod hat we loy for ing the ons of our ers kes age of the act hat ach ier ces a ure of nce ong ith ach ion .
the hod we use is a ple ing eme hat ses nce ues as tie - ers .
hat is , ven the ons ade by our our ers for a ven web age , we ict the ass hat has a ity of the tes ade by the ual ers , if ere is one .
if no ass has a ity , hen we ect the ass ted ith the est nce
in der to ure hat the nce res put by our ent ers are ble , we ate ach ier by ing a ing rom its put res to the ity of a ion ing ect .
we do his by ply ing the res ced by ach ier for a ven ass , and hen ing the ing - set acy of the res hat all nto ach bin .
tal ion
ure 123 ows the acy / age ves for the ing ors .
by ing his ure to the acy / age ves for the ull - ext ers own in ure 123 one can see hat , in ral , ore ate ons are ved by ing nce her han ull - ext hen ing ges .
at igh els of age , the ing ers are ore ate han the ull - ext ers for the rse and ent ses .
ddi - lly , the rch . ect ons ade by the ing ier are tly ore ate han the ull - ext ons , ugh the age ned by the ing ier is not as ood .
ure 123 : acy / age off for ned ers ith ary ize of 123 rds .
ugh ure 123 tes hat ive acy is ped in ome ses by com - ing ple ers , the lts of his ent are hat ing .
the acy / age ves for the ing ers are not mly ter han the rre - ing ves of the ent ers .
lly , we uld ike the acy / age rve for ach ass to be as ood or ter han the est art rve ong the
we eve hat the lts own in ure 123 are ing use our hod for ing the ons of ple ers is rly ple .
lly , we eve hat the hod ils to ely map ion res to ted ies , and hus the ing ion ten oes not " ten " to the ght ers .
gly , we ave ved hat the ing hod rms uch ter hen our cal ers are ted to ery all ies .
ure 123 ows the acy / age ves for ing hen we use cal ers ned ith a ary ize of 123 rds .
in ing his ure to our ine ull - ext ier ( ure 123 ) , one can see hat the ves ced by the all - ary ing hod are lly ior to the ull - ext ier ves .
ver , the all - ary ing ers ved his ult ing ent ers hat ere not as ate as eir 123 - ord ary rts .
in ure ork , we lan to ain ral rks to orm the ing ion .
we ize hat uch a ing hod ill be ter ble to oit the zed eas of ise ted by our ual ers .
23% 23% 23%
ure 123 : acy / age off for ned ers ith ary ize of 123 rds .
ing lti - age nts
as sed in ion 123 , our nal ion is hat ach ass nce in the dge ase nds to ome ous ent of ext on the web .
his ows , for ple , hat a lar ent ght be ted on the web by a gle web age , or by a ter of ked web ges red und eir ome age .
in the nts ted hus far , we ave ely ade a ler ion : hat ach nce is ted by a gle web age .
in act , in ing our ing ata , we red a ety of nts ( and ces of her ogy ses ) hat ere bed by a ral ked web ges her han a gle age .
in ese ses we and led the ary ome age as ent , and led any ked ges ted ith the ame ent as her .
to ove his ing ion we ust lop ods for ing ets of ked ges hat ent a gle dge ase nce .
in his ion we ent a set of and - ten ics hat ify ups of ted ges and lso ify the " ary " ome age in the oup .
we how ere hat ion acy in the ous ons is tly ved hen ese ics are sed to oup ges and to lly ign the bel her to non - ary ges , to fit the ion we ade ile and ing the ata .
der the web ges of a cal lty ber .
she has a ain age ( ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / dex . tml ) , a age ing her ons ( ttp : / / www . my .
edu / ser / doe / ubs . tml ) , and a age ing her rch sts ( ttp : / / www .
my . edu / ser / doe / ork / rch . tml ) .
our ing ion out ity - web re - ips tes hat we uld ize hat ese ges ond to a gle ity , ify the est ive age for hat ity , ify hat age as a lty , and las - ify the est of the ges as her .
we ish his by ing two sks : ing ted ges her , and ing the ost ive age of a oup .
tus ( 123 ) ies ies in url ure and ing , and nts ral ics for ing age ngs and ing ive ome age .
we use a lar , tly ded , ach .
in an eal rio , one uld ine ing to arn ese ics rom les .
in the ing ent we ave ead ded ese les by and .
the ost ous ngs hat can be ted rom a url are sed on rec - ory ure xes .
key ory nts of a url ate a cal ing of web ges nto an ity .
for ple , ven the url ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / rch . tml , we can uce the nce of an ity ing to the url fix ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / , use the ord / ser / in the ate ory ion lly tes the nce of a son ity in the ory ace ted by doe .
her cal ate fix ers are / lty / , / ple / , / ome / , and / cts / .
ree ate fix ers ( in nix - yle ing ern ) are / cs ? ? ? / , / www / and / ~ * / , the rst ing a cal tor of a rse , and the ast ing a ypi - cal tor of the ame of a son or ion .
our thm ups rls by eir est ory fix hat hes one of ese ven rns .
in the ent hat no ern hes , the ire ory fix is sed for the ing .
in our ple ove , the ree rls uld ach ave the ity fix as ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / , and hus uld be ped her .
ing ese ing ics lts in ets of web ges hat ate a sin - gle ogy ity .
rom ese ets , we ify the gle ary age hat is ost ive of hat ity .
lly his nds to the " ome age " of the en - ity .
hus , we ake any age hat has the ame ern " dex . tml " , " ome . tml " , " age . tml " , or " cs ? ? ? . tml " and bel it the ary age .
lly , any age in ich the ete url is the ory fix , ( for ple , the url ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / ) or one in ich the ame hes the ory ove it ( as in ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / doe . tml ) is lso ied as a ary age .
all ges hat do not tch any of ese rns in a oup , are ied lly as her .
in the ent hat no age in a oup hes any of ese ics , the age ith the est ( non - her ) ion nce is led the ary age .
in our xam - ple , ttp : / / www . my . edu / ser / doe / dex . tml uld be ied as lty ( ing our ier was ect ) , and the her ges uld be ied as her ess of the
, p* 123 123 123
\ h ' 123 \ h ^
\ ~ +\ rse -
^^^ ~ *^ x . \ \ ent - + - - .
. b - b x\ * lty - q -
' et ' ' \ ^^ - rch . ect *
' ba ' 23^ ent - * ' " " ej - .
\ . b ^^ aff - *
. x " " ' " " x x\ \
v ' ' x \ x * \ \
i i i i
23% 23% 23%
ure 123 : acy / age off for the ull - ext ier ter the ion of url ics .
tal ion
the act of ing the url ics ith the nal ull - ext age ier is mma - zed in ure 123
ing ese ves to ure 123 one can see the ing ase in acy for any ven vel of age oss all ses .
lso ote ome ion in tal age .
his urs use ome ges hat ere sly tly ied ave een ied as ing " ary " ges
ion ary
his ion sed on the ask of ing ass ces by web age ion .
we wed hat , use ext des uch ant ion , web ges can be ied ing ral ces of ion : the ull ext of ges , the ext in les and ngs , the ext ted ith nks , ext in ing ges , and the ile ion ted in rls .
our nts est hat one of ese hes one is ent for ing ces of ogy ses ith igh acy .
in the nts bed in ion 123 , we sed oth ull - ext ers and url ics .
we lso wed in his ion hat one ing ine of rch is to ine the ons of ple ers hat use ent ces of nce .
ing to ize ion ces
in the ous ion we sed the ask of ing to act ces of ogy ses rom the web .
our ach to his ask med hat the ass ces of est are ted by ole web ges or by ers of web ges .
in his ion , we dis - uss the ask of ing to ize ons of est hat ist ong ted ass ces .
the sis ing our ach is hat ons ong ass ces are ten ted by ink ths in the web .
hus , the ask of ing to ize ces of uch ons ves ing les hat ize the cal ths of the ion .
for ple , an nce of the ors . of ion ght be ted by a ink tly rom the ome age of a rse to the ome age of the tor , as bed by the ing ule :
_of ( a , b ) : - rse ( a ) , son ( b ) , _to ( a , b ) .
ere , the les a and b ent web ges , the als rse ( b ) and son ( a ) rep - ent the ted ons of the ges , and the ral _to ( a , b ) sts for the nce of a ink rom age a to age b .
lem ion
use his ask ves ing ink ths of own and ble ize , we loy a ing hod hat ses a rst - der ion for its ned les .
cif - lly , the thm we ave ped for his ask is sed on the oil thm ( 123 , 123 ) ich we sed for age ion in ion 123 .
we uss our thm in ore ail
the lem ion we use for our ion ing sks sts of the ing
ass ( age ) : for ach ass in the set of age ses red in ion 123 , the ass ion sts the ges hat ent ces of ass .
for ges in the ing set , the ces of ese ons are ned ing the ual ses of the ges .
for ges in the est set , ver , we use the ted age ses ven by the ers sed in ion 123
nce the bkb tem has ess nly to ted age ses , our est set ons are ive of ose the tem ces .
_to ( ink , age , age ) : his ion nts web nks .
for a ven ink , the rst ent of the ion ies an ier for the ink , the ond ent ies the age in ich the ink is ted , and the ird ent tes the age to ich the ink nts .
or^ ( ink ) : his set of ons tes the rds hat are und in the hor ( i . e . , ned ) ext of ach ink .
the ary for his set of ons des rds hat cur at ast n mes ( we set n = 123 in our nts ) in the nks of the ing set .
ote hat eas the has . ord ons sed in ion 123 bes web ges , the set sed ere zes nks .
zed ( ink ) : the ces of his ion are ose nks in
ich all of the rds in the hor ext art ith a tal ter .
ord ( ink ) : the ces of his ion are ose nks ich ain a ord ith oth tic and ric ers ( e . g . , i ach 123 ) .
rrf ( ink ) : his set of ons tes the rds hat are und in the " ood " of ach ink .
the ood of a ink des rds in a gle aph , ist tem , ble try , tle or ing in ich the ink is ned .
the ary for his set of ons des the top 123 ost tly ing rds in ach ing set , ept for rds on a ist .
we arn ons for the ing get ons rom the ata set bed in ion 123 : ect ( age , age ) , rse ( age , age ) , and art - son ( age , age ) .
in ion to the ive ces for ese ons , our ing ets ude ely 123 , 123 ive les .
we orm the set of ega - ive ing ces for ach get ion by ing ach air of non - her ges rom the ame ity hat is not a ive nce of the get ion .
ion - lly , for the ent . of . son ion we ent the ive ces ith ach son - ent air ich is not a ive nce .
ing ods
as ted ove , the thm we use for ing ion les is lar to oil in hat it ses a edy ing ach to arn a set of orn ses .
the two ary ces een our hod and oil are old .
rst , ike oil our hod oes not ply use ill - ing hen ing for the ext use to add to a ept ion .
ond , our hod ses a ent ion ion for his rch ess .
we uss ach of ese ces in urn .
as bed in ion 123 , oil cts ses ing a ill - ing rch ugh a ace of ate als .
we ave und hat , for our ion : ing sks , uch a ill - ing egy is ble to arn les for ths ing of ore han one ink .
the rch ess hat our hod oys ead sts of two ses .
in the rst ase , the " ath " art of the use is ned , and in the ond ase , nal als are ded to the use ing a ill - ing rch .
our thm for ing the ath art of a use is a ant of rds and ney ' s nal ing hod ( 123 ) .
his hod is ned to ate the sic ess of ill - ing rch , ely hat to arn ood ons it is ten ary
put : ing set of ive and red ive ces
for ach red ive nce
ind a ath ( up to ded gth ) ing the und ons
ect the ost mon ath ype for ich use rch asn ' t yet led ize the ath nto an ial use do ill - ing to ine the use if ill - ing ils to ind an ble use , ack to tep 123
urn : ned use
ure 123 : the ure for ing a use in our tic ant of nal ing .
and phs urn ath
ure 123 : ing a ath in the und ons .
on the eft is own a aph of nts ked by a gle ary ion .
his aph can be ght of as ing web ges ted by nks .
ose the air ( 23t 123 ) is an red ive nce .
ing eds by ing the phs und the two nts til an ion is ted , and hen ing the ath hat nks the two
to ake a tep in the rch ace ich oes not bit any ate ain .
the sic dea ing nal ing is hat a nal lem ain can be ght of as a ted aph in ich the des are the ain ' s nts and the ges ond to ons ich old ong nts .
the nal - ing thm ies to ind a all ber of cal ths in his aph hat ize the ces of the
ure 123 des an iew of our ing ure for ing a gle use .
his ure is ted til a ete ion has een ned .
the rst tep in the hod is to ind the est ath of a ded gth ( hen one sts ) for ach ive nce ( of the get ion ) hat has not een red by a sly ned use .
his ess , ted in ure 123 ves ing a aph und ach of the nts in the nce .
ach aph is ded by ing all nts ich can be hed ing an nce of one of the und ons to ect to a ant at the ier of the aph .
ter ing uch a ath for ach red ive nce , the ost mon ath
ind ath for ach ive nce
urn ost mon ath
pi i 123 i tim
ure 123 : ing the ost mon ath for a set of ive ces .
ven the aph own in ure 123 , ose hat the ive ces are ( pi , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , and ( 123 , 123 ) .
our thm nds the est ath for ach nce and hen rns the ost mon ath ype .
in his ple the rst ree ces ave the ame ath ype , eas the nce ( 123 , 123 ) has ent one ( ice the ion of the nks ) .
his ath ype is ted nto an ial use .
ype is sed for the ial use . 123 a ath ype ies the ber of nks in the ath and eir ons , but it oes not nce the lar ges and nks in any lar nce .
the ion of the ost mon ath ype is ted in ure 123
the ial use is med by ing ach ant in the ath ith a que ble .
his use is hen her ned by a ple ill - ing rch , uch as hat sed in oil .
if the ill - ing rch ils to ind an ble use , hen the ure cks by ing the ast ted ath ype rom the ist of tes and hen ing the ext ost mon ype .
we her ias the rch for ses by ing ach one ith the ses of the air of ges in the ion .
for ple , hen ing ses for the get ion mem - ect ( a , b ) , we ize the ail of ach use ith the ral ect ( a ) and son ( b ) .
his ias kes age of ain dge ich is ent in the on - ogy ven to the bkb tem .
the ond nce een our ion - ing thm and oil is hat eas oil ses an ion - tic ure to ide its ill - ing rch , our hod , ike ski and tko ' s ra - oil ( 123 ) , ses ra - tes of a use ' s ror to ide its ion .
we ave und hat ing his ion ion ses the thm to arn wer , ore ral ses han hen oil ' s ion ain ure is sed .
tal ion
we ate our ach to ing ion les ing the our - old oss - ion ogy bed in ion 123
on ach ion , we arn the get ons us -
3if the hod is ned rom ing ive ons , the ath for ach ive nce eds to be und nly nce nce it ill not nge as ses are ded for the get ion .
in his ase , ore ing ach new use the thm eds nly to ate nts ing the ber of ces red by ach ath ype .
_of ( a , b ) : - rse ( a ) , son ( b ) , _to ( c , b , a ) .
est set : 123 pos , 123 neg
_of ( a , b ) : - son ( a ) , ent ( b ) , _to ( c , d , a ) , _to ( e , f , d ) , _to ( g , b , f ) ,
est set : 123 pos , 123 neg
ect ( a , b ) : - ect ( a ) , son ( b ) , _to ( c , a , d ) , ink . to ( e , d , b ) ,
est set : 123 pos , 123 neg
ure 123 : a few of the les ned for ing ion ces .
ing ing ces rom ree of the ies in our ata set , and est ned ses ing ces rom the rth ity .
ure 123 ows a ned use for ach of the ors . of , ent . of , and mem - ers .
ect ons .
on age , ere ere 123 , 123 , and 123 ses ned for ese get pts ely .
ong ith ach ule , we how how ell the ule ied est - set ces .
ach of ese les was ned on ore han one of the ing ets , ore the est - set ics ent tes ver the our est ets .
the les ned for the ors . of ion are the est ong the ree get ons .
the ned ule own for his ion , for ple , oks for ses in ich a rse age has a ink ing to a son age .
the ule own for the mem - ers . of . ect ion is ore ing .
it bes ers . of . ect ces in ich the ect ' s ome age nts to an ate age ich nts to nal ome ges .
the ink rom the ect age to the ate age ust ave the ord " ple " ear it .
his ule ers ses in ich the ers of a rch ect are ted on a ary " ers " age ead of on the ome age of the ect .
the ule own for the ent . of ion ves a ree - ink ath hat nks a ent ome age to a nal ome age .
the ule res hat the ord " ate " cur ear the ond ink in the ath .
in his ase , the thm has ned to oit the act hat nts ten ave a age hat ves as a ate ent ory , and hat any ent ose ome age is ted to by his ory is a ber of the ent .
ong ith ach of our ted ion ces , we ate an ted nce in the ion .
we can hen ary the age of our ned ule ets by ing a old on ese nce ues .
we ate the nce of ach ion by ing ere ost of the nty in the ion ies : in the age ons hat are ted by ach ned use .
the nce ure for a ted ion nce is ply the uct of the nce res for the age ons hat tor nto the ion ion .
23% 23% 23% 23% 23%
ure 123 : acy / age off for ned ion les .
ing ese nce res , ure 123 ows the est - set acy / age ves for the ree get ons .
the acy els of all ree ule ets are rly igh .
the ers . of . ect les are ter han 23% ate at age els of up to out 23% .
the ors . of les are ver 23% ate at age els of 23% and ove .
the ent . of les are at ast 23% ate at age els of up to 23% .
the ted age els of the ned les is due ily to the ted age of our age ers .
ote hat all of the ned les ude als ich est ted age ons .
as ure 123 ows , the age ted by our age ers is low
% for ost ses .
ing to act ext lds
in ome ses , the ion we ant to act ill not be ted by web ges or ons ong ges , but by all nts of ext ded in ges .
for ple , ven a nal ome age , we ght be ted in ing the son ' s ame .
his ype of ask is nly led ion ion .
his ion ses our ach to ing les for uch ion ion sks .
we ave ped an ion ion ing thm led srv for " nce les ith ion . " srv is a top - own rst - der ner in the rit of oil
res ith oil its ral rch tic and ain ric , but ers in the ind of put it cts and the ess of its rch .
put to srv is a set of ges , led to ify ces of the eld we ant to act , and a set of tes ned ver ens .
put is a set of ion ion les .
the ion ess ves ing ery ble ext ent of ate ize to see her it hes any of the les .
as in oil , " ing " a ule in srv ans ill - ing ugh a ace of ble als , at ach tep ing a ral hat hes as any ive les as ble ile ing a rge ber of sly red ive les .
hen a ule is med ood ugh ( her it ers nly ive les , or her ion is ged to be ive ) , all ive les ing it are ved rom the ing set , and the ess is ted .
in our lar ain , a ive ple is a led ext nta nce of sin one of our ing ts; a ive ple is any led ken nce ing the ame ize as ome ive ple .
ing ing we ess the ess of a ral ing all uch ive les .
the ion sed by our ule ner pts to ess the ent ics of ive les nly in rms of the ual ens ned hin hem and ing hem .
at ach tep in ule wth , ral ent pes of ate may be
gth ( nce , lop , l\l ) : the ner can ert hat the gth of a eld , in rms
of ber of ens , is ess han , ter han , or ual to ome ger .
ome ( nce , var , ath , ttr , lue ) : the ner can sit an ute - lue est for ome ken in the nce ( e . g . , " the eld ins ome ken hat is zed " ) .
one ent to his ate is a ble .
ach uch ble nds to a nct ken .
hus , if the ner ses a ble ady in use in the ent ule , it is ing the ion of a gle en; if the ble is a new one , it bes a sly und ken .
ion ( nce , var , rom , lop , n ) : the ner can say ing out the ion of a ken und by a ome - ate in the ent ule .
the ion is ied ive to the ing or end of the nce .
pos ( nce , arl , 123 , lop , n ) : ere at ast two les ave een tro - ced by ome - tes in the ent ule , the ner can ify eir ing and nce rom ach her .
ike oil , srv can oit nal ure in the ain .
for srv , the nly ble orm of nal ure is hat ing ens to ach her .
the ost ous ple is the sor ion , ich cts ent ens , but ore ing nds of ure can be ted , uch as tic ure .
in ing a ome ate , the ner has the ion of ing an ary ath of nal tes to the est , so hat it can ake nts of the orm , " ome ken ich is wed by a ken ich is wed by a ken hat is zed . " hus , ugh ome tes nly fer to ens
ame ( ent ) : - ome ( ent , b , ( ) , tle , rue ) ,
gth ( ent , < , 123 ) , ome ( ent , b , ( ken ) , ord , " gmt " ) , ome ( ent , a , ( ) , ngp , rue ) , ome ( ent , b , ( ) , ord , own ) , ome ( ent , b , ( ) , onp , lse )
ure 123 : an ion ule for ame of ome age ner .
the ish ing of his ule is , " a nce of two ens , one of ich ( a ) is in a tml tle eld and ger han our ers , the her of ich ( b ) is ded by the ken gmt , is own rom ing , and is not a our - ter ken . " his is a igh - acy ule , ing 123 ect out of 123 hed on a ion set .
ide a eld , the ner can oit ion ble in ext ing the eld , as ell .
lly , the ner may nly use ths of gth ne; ver uch a ath is sed in a ome ate , the tem kes ger ths ble .
in his way , the nal nse hat his ity ils is ept der rol .
tal ion
as in the ous nts , we wed the ave - one - ity - out ogy , re - dly ing the ges ing to one of the our ies out for ing and ing on the ing ree .
the ata set for the ent ent sts of all son ges in the ata set .
the nit of ent in his ent is an ual age .
if srv ' s ost ent ion on a age nds tly to ome nce of the age ner ' s ame , or if it kes no ion for a age ing no ame , its ior is ted as ect .
ise , it is ted as an ror .
ast - ied : day , 123 - jun - 123 123 : 123 : 123 gmt
le> uce all ld< / le>
uce all br>
ure 123 : an ple tml ent ich the ove ule hes .
in his ase , the ent uce all in the tle is ted .
ote hat his is an ous ion nce it ses the ast ame of
res 123 and 123 how a ned ule and its ion to a est ase .
ure 123 ows the acy - age rve for srv on the ame - ion ask .
der the ria bed ove , it ves 23% acy hen all ges are sed .
a ull 23% of the les did not ain eir ers ' mes , ver , and a rge art of the ner ' s ror is use of ous ons ver ese les .
if we der nly the ges ing mes , srv ' s nce is 23% .
ure 123 : acy / age off ing srv for ame ion .
a ion on a ile hat oes not ain a ame is ted as an ror .
ted ork
ere are ral ant ies of rch hat are ted to the sks and ods sed in his per .
in his ion we fly iew the ain eas of ted ork .
ent ion
our ork is ted to rch in ent ion , uch as hat ted at ent ext val ces ( rec ) ( 123 , 123 ) .
a ide ety of ods ave een ied to the ent - ion ask .
the idf ach to ion val is the sis for the hio ion .
thm ich has ome a ard ine thm for ext ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
its " ord - tor " ach ves ing ses ith a tor of hts , ere ach ght tes how ant the ing ord is to the ass .
his ion has een sed ith any ent ing hms , ing ory sed son - ing ( 123 ) , ral rks ( 123 , 123 ) , ear ant sis ( 123 ) , tic ion ( 123 ) , row - off and the ted ent ( eg ) thm ( 123 ) .
her ful ine of rch in ext ion mes rom sic eas in ity and ion ory .
yes ule has een the ing int for a ber of ion hms ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , and the mum ion gth ple has een sed as the sis of an thm as ell ( 123 ) .
her ine of rch has een to use lic ing ods for ext ion .
ous ies ave sed hms uch as ion ees , wap - 123 , per and ade can be und in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ese ies ate hat ese hms are ite ive ith cal - sed ods .
ion ion
the lem hat we are ing is ted to the nal ion ion ask , uch as the rch one in the age ing ( muc ) ( 123 , 123 ) ity .
the ork in the muc ity has red ems uch as ing lic ons of ist cks rom ews les , ing ase mes hat ate lds uch as the tor , tim , etc .
one key nce een his ork and the rch ted ere is hat we are ned ith ing ion rom ext , eas the muc ork has sed on ary lat ext .
in ion , our ach ies ily on ine ing ods hat can be ned to act ion , eas ost rly ork in the muc ity ied on and - ted ods for ing ion .
tly , the lem of ing ine - ing ods to uce ion - ion nes has ved ore ion .
lka ( 123 ) and log ( 123 ) are ine ing ems ich arn ion rns rom ons of sed nts hat ave een ted to ify nts of est .
ese rns are hen wed and anu - lly led nto a ger ion ion tem .
log - ts ( 123 ) ves the ent hat nts be ted .
tal ( 123 ) and ier ( 123 ) oth ate hat ine ing ues can be sed to arn les hat orm ion sly .
tal is a ing thm ich kes sed , ted ces as put and ces les for ing rom vel ces .
ier ses eas rom nal ing and xes hat the nce on tic pre - ing .
ing ith lly fic ion rns , oth ems arn by ing nts and ing rns .
his sts ith the ral - to - fic ach ced ere .
ral ers ave red the lem of ext ion rom the web and her net ces .
one ple is ila ( 123 ) , a tem ned to arn ion rns ver the man - ble put of ine ses .
ila its ior ons out the ble nts of a ase to arn how rds are ted for put by a lar tem .
lar , but lly ned for use ith tml is bot ( 123 ) , a ain ing ent .
ese hes are ted to the ral lem of " per ion " ( 123 ) , ing ion rns for hly lar ces .
at the ame ime , eas hat ave ven ful for ral ext ave lso een own to ork ell for web ges .
oot ( 123 ) is a ion of tal in ich sed nce nts are ced by nts of tml .
ing tic ion rom ext
ral her rch ups ave red the tic ion hat can be uto - lly red and ted rom ext .
tus ( 123 ) nts a set of ics hat ate ext ons to tic ips .
lly , she ers ela - ips hat can ten be red rom ink ure , ile tem ion , and tml age ure .
nge and kan ( 123 ) ave ped a tem hat nds the web age for a per ven a hic ion to it .
art of the ask med by his tem is to ind the nal ome age and the ons age of an hor ing rom the ome age of the son ' s ion .
for his ask , nge and kan use rch - rol les ich are hat lar to the ion - ion les we ned in ion 123
eir les ook for ain rds in nks to ide ich nes to low in the rch .
eas eir les are and - ded for a fic ask , our ork ers the lem of ing uch les for ary ons .
lli et al .
( 123 ) der the ask of ing ges nto nal ies uch as ead , dex and nce .
hey ize the ses ing res uch as ile ize , ber of ing and ing nks , age pth of ren ges in the per - ink aph , etc .
eas our ork has not tly ved ing nal ses of ges , we ave ved hat our rst - der ers for oth age and ion ica - ion ten tly arn uch nal ies .
all , for ple , hat our ned rst - der les for ing ent ges tly ted the ass of son dex ges .
the res we use lso fer hat rom ose of lli et al . , but mon to oth hes is the ral nce of tor - sed ext ity and ink
ing dge ses rom the web
her ups ave ked on ing nal dge - ase ion rom the web .
uke et al .
( 123 ) ave sed an ion to tml led hoe eby web age ors can ode cal ion on eir ges .
the ave lso ped a tem , ose , hat cts hoe - ded ion rom web ges , and red it in a cal dge ase .
eir ope is hat a ary of ard ies ill ome nto mon age , ing nts uch as ose to arn the ion ded on the
the art ion ver ( 123 ) des a ral age ace to a owl - dge ase ted rom the web .
the dge ase ins eta - ion out the ent of the web , so hat a ery to art rns ant ext nts .
art lds its dge ase by ing tly lly ded ral age ons on web ges .
the ost ant ent ent in his rea is the ent of ble kup
age ( xml ) ( 123 ) .
eas tml is ned to ibe the out of ion in a age , xml can be sed to ibe ion out the nts of the age .
as ith hoe , web age ors can use xml to ode cal ion out eir ges .
nce xml is a rld ide web ium ard , ver , it is ure to be ely sed .
we eve hat ods for ing the nts of web ges , uch as hoe and xml , can ist ith the ask of ing dge ses rom the web , but do not ate the eed for our bkb ach .
ere are two ble ons of hes uch as hoe and xml .
rst , hey are of no use hen web age ors do not loy hem .
ond , hey ose a sal ogy .
hat is , nce ual web age ors are ble for ing web ges , the ess of ese hes ges on the ent to ich ors loy ard , red ies in a ent ner .
ver , cal ons are ely in the nds of web age ors in his ach .
ere may be ses ere the cal ies sed to ibe a ven web age are not ate or ant ies for the sks to ich an ted dge ase ill be ied .
in the bkb ach , on the her and , ese cal ons can be ade by the ers of the tem .
one ing way in the xml and bkb hes can lly be ned , is by ing xml - ted ges as pre - led ing ata .
we lan to ore his sue in ure rch .
web nts
the bkb tem bed ere is an ple of a web ent hat ses the web , ing ion as it oes .
any her web nts ave een ped ver the ast few ars , ing ral hat lve ome orm of ing .
ver , the ast ity of ese ems use ing to ove eir ity to eve ext ion , her hat to act ter - ble ion .
for ple , ims et al .
( 123 ) ibe a web ent led web her hat ves as a our ide for ers ing the web .
web her rns to est ate nks ven ers ' sts , sed on the nks wed by ous ers ith lar sts .
as uch , it ves ing to ify nks - a ask lar to the ork ted ere on ing to act nal ion .
a tem ith a lar oal is zia ( 123 ) , ich rns the sts of a gle ser , in ast to web her ich rns rom a ity of ers .
ill and ert ( 123 ) ers a ore ted way of ing han web her and zia .
ing rom a lly ted dex age for a lar pic , the ser can ate nks off his age .
the tem ses the ngs to arn a ser fic pic ile hat can be sed to est red nks on the age .
ill and ert can lso use rch nes ike cos to eve ges by ing the pic ile nto a ery .
ira ( 123 ) rks in an off - ine ing .
a ral del of one ser ' s est is ned by ing the ser to ate ges .
ira ses the del to wse the web off - ine and rns a set of ges hat tch the ser ' s est .
one ted tem hat is ser in rit to our ork is kes et a / . ' s ( 123 ) hoy tem , ich pts to ate the ome age of a son , ven ion uch as the son ' s ame , nal ion etc .
hoy ses dge of ome age ent ons to rch for nal ome ges , and in act rns ese ons rom nce .
ons and ure ork
we gan his per ith a oal and a sis .
the oal is to lly ate a rge dge ase ose ent ors hat of the rld ide .
the sis is hat one can lly ate dge ses rom the web by rst ing ine ing lgo - hms to ate ion ion ods for ach of the red pes of dge , and hen ing ese ods to act tic , lic nts tly rom
his per des ort for our sis by ing and ing a ety of ine ing hms for ion ion , and by ing the bkb tem hat tes the ned ion ors to wse web tes and ate a owl - dge ase .
as own in ion 123 and ere , our tem has ved an acy of ter han 23% at age els of ely 23% hen ing ese ned for - ion ors to ate its ity dge ase ile ing new web tes .
ese lts ide ing ial ort for our sis , and est any tes for
we ave red a ety of ing ods for his ask , ing cal bag - of - rds ers , rst - der ule ers , and lti - egy ing ods .
we ave und hat cal bag of rds ods , ved rom ent ion ods in ion val , ork ell for ing ual web ges .
ver , ese ods do not ake age of the ial ext ure ble on the web .
ore , we ped rst - der ing hms oth for ing to ify ges and ing to ize ons ong ral ges .
ese rst - der ods are ble of ing rns hat cur oss ple web ges , eir nks , and fic rds hat ear on ese ges and nks .
our nts ate hat ese ods end to ave her acy han the bag of rds ers , ugh hey tly ide wer age .
in ion to ese rst - der ing ods hat " ook ard " rom the age to der its ors , we lso ave ped ods hat " ook ard " to der the led ure of ext and fic ext nts hin a gle web age .
the srv thm bed in ion 123 rns nal les hat act fic pes of ext lds hin a web age , uch as a son ' s ame .
we eve hat the box of ods we ave bed ere ill be ble to a ide nge of lem ins .
for new ins , ver , we may ply and ine the ods in ays not red in his per .
for ple , in ent ork in a new lem ain , we are ing age ers to ize ces of a lar ion ( the mic tor of a any ) , eas in the ork bed ere we sed age ers to ize ass ces .
in ort , the ost ate hod for ing ces for a lar ass or ion ill end on how ese ces end to be ted in the web .
sed on the ial lts ted ere , we are tic out the ure cts for lly ing and ing a lic dge ase by ing ext on the web .
key ons ain , ver .
for ple , hat vel of acy
can be ved by ned res for ing ion rom the web , and hat vel of acy ill be red of hem ? for ome sks the red acy ill be ite igh ( e . g . , for an ent tem hat lly sts ney on alf of its ser ) .
ver , for sks uch as ion val on the web , the tem eed nly be tly ate to orm the ent ord - sed val ems hat ave no eal ion of an ogy .
ugh her rch ard ger ing ods is ted , we ure hat ere ill be a ady eam of ons ere ven an ely ect dge ase ill orm ent ord val ods .
a ond ype of ion for our tem is how uch ort ill be red to ain the tem for ach new ogy , or for ach ion to the ing ogy ? in the nts ted ere , the tem was ned ing nds of and - led web ges hat ere ted at a ost of ely one or two per son - eks of ort .
in wer ork we are ing to ore ods for ing the nce on and led ata .
low is a ist of ese and her rch ies hat rit her rch :
lop ing ods hat oit the cal ips hat ist ong ses in the chy .
for ple , in ent ork we ave own hat the acy of our ian bag of rds ier can be ved by ing the ass chy to ain ore ate tes of ass nal ord ies ( 123 ) .
use the ast ool of led web ges to ent the ble and - led ata to ove ing acy .
tly we ave own hat the em thm can be sed to ine led and led ata to ost acy ( 123 ) .
we are lso ing the ion of em ith ool - sed ing for ive ing in ich the ner sts els for fic web ges ose bel ill be lly
co - ing ple ers .
for ple , der a lem ing in ich one web age ier nes the rds on the age , and a ond ier nes ead the rds on the ing nks to hat age .
in ent ork , we ave sed a hod by ich ach ier cts as a ner for the her , and we ave ded ial nts and cal sis ing the ise of his
oit ore tic ure .
we lan to ore ays in ich oun , erb , and nal ses ted rom the ext can be sed as res for ion ion .
we ave ted ary nts hat how ved acy in ome ses hen our bag of rds ion is ted by ese ted ses ( 123 ) .
we ure hat uch tic res ill be ven ore ful for sks ith few rds , uch as ing ual nks .
ore ple ies for ing to act ext lds rom web ges .
we ave ped a ber of hes to his ask ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ing lti - egy
ate cal bag - of - rds ods nto rst - der ing sks .
we ave gun ing ods hat ent rst - der ing ith the ity to use bag -
of - rds ers to ent new tes for ing the ges and nks ced in ned les ( 123 ) .
oit ore tml ure .
we lan to ate the ity of ing the tml ure of ges hen ing les for ion ion and ion ion .
we ave ted one ach to ing tml ure and ing it for ing sks ( 123 ) .
arn ies ver the ing dge ase .
we lan to use ing ods to ver ing ies ver the cts hat ave een ted rom the web , and to use ese ned cts to ove ure act ion .
for ple , in the ity dge ase we ght ect to arn how to ict the ent of a lty ber sed on the ent of her ent ees .
end the ogy to new lem ins .
we are tly ing our ods to the ask of ing ion out ies rom the web .
a ing ore nly ted res rom ive yes
ile ive yes ten des ate ons , it nts ems hen one nts to ret the ore for ach ass as an ate of nty .
per - ass res for the ing ass end to ate ard 123 and res for the ing ass end ard 123 .
ten the ect is so ong hat ing - int und - off ror ses the ity to be ted as tly 123 for the ing ass and 123 for the ers .
ese eme ues are an act of the nce ion .
if for ach ord , the lue of pr ( ;|c ) een ent ses ers by one der of ude , hen the nal ies ith fer by as any ers of ude as ere are rds in the ent .
ass - nal ord ies uld be uch ore lar oss ses if ord ies ere ken
we uld ike res hat ely ect the nty in ach ion and ble us to bly are the res of ple nts .
we mpt to ter the eme ues , ile ill ing the ity of ing ord - ies , in two eps .
rst , ead of ing the uct of the ord ods , we use the ric ean of the ods .
his ach is ely ted to the ept of ity in age ing for ech ion ( 123 ) .
ity is a ure of the ood of ome ata ven a del , ere the ood is zed for the gth of the ata .
we gin ith ive yes ( eq .
123 ) , ite the sum to an ent ion hat ums ver all rds in the ary t ead of ust the rds in the ent ( eq .
123 ) , ake the log , ( eq .
123 ) , and ide by the ber of rds in the ent ( eq .
his lts in the log of the ric ean of the ord ods , lus a erm for the ass ior .
pr ( c ) prk - |c ) = pr ( c ) h prk ' k ) ^*^ ( 123 )
oc log ( ? i ( c ) ) + 23n ( w^d ) log ( pr ( u; , - |c ) ) ( 123 )
+ log ( rmc ) ) ( 123 )
log ( pr ( c ) ) , tn ( wi , d )
if we ret n ( wi , d ) / n as pr ( i\d ) , the ght - and erm of his ion is the ive oss opy ( 123 ) een the ion of rds ced by the ent ith the ion of rds ced by the ass :
log ( pr ( c ) ) ^pr ( u> . |<j ( ) ^ ( ^ic ) )
hus , the ond erm ies hat the ass c ith the est ore ill be the one ith the est oss the ass hat uld " ess " the ent ost tly .
his ion lts in res for ach ass hat ary hly , out ies ard
oss opy in ion 123 can be ely ood as the age ber of its ary to ode a ord rom the ent ing an ing hat is mal for the ion of rds tly awn rom the ass .
oss opy oes not , ver , unt for the ing lty of ing ent ome nts are ore lex , and tly ire ore its on age to ode .
we ant res hat can be bly red een nts .
a way to unt for ces een nts is to use ack - ler hat is , to act the age ber of its it uld ake to ode the ent ing its mal ing ( ing ain , hat the rds are ent of one her ) .
his lts in an ion hat can be ely ood as the age ber of tra its red use we are ing a mal ing ead of the mal ing .
we ify the ond erm of ion 123 so hat it ses the kl nce ore for ach ass :
m^ + prk . log ( |l - j| )
n 123 \pt ( i\d ) j
we lso ize the res oss all ses so hat hey sum to a ant .
his nor - ion lso has the ect of ing our nce in the ion of nts ith igh ord opy .
his is ely ble use igh - opy nts ave ore que rds , ich can be red as ger nce , and ore ely to ult in a ect ion .
ote hat the ons to 123 do not nge the ing of ass tes for a ven ent .
tly , the ons ade by ive yes are not ted .
ese ons nly rve to ide ell - ted , ble res .
ote hat one of the ges nce ard ive yes in ion 123 has ged the red ing of ent ses for the ame hey ave not ged ion hat uld ave ted rom ive yes .
hey ave nly ved to ide ell - ted , ble res .
