we der the lem of emi - sed ing to ex - act ies ( e . g . , mic lds , tes ) and ons ( e . g . , ort ( ete , ort ) ) rom web ges , ing ith a ful of led ing les of ach ory or ion , lus eds of ons of led web doc - nts .
emi - sed ing ing nly a few led les is lly ble use the ing ask is ned .
his per ues the sis hat uch ter acy can be ved by her ing the ing ask , by ing the emi - sed ing of any ors for ent ies and ons .
we ize ral ays in ich the ing of ory and ion ors can be led , and ent per - tal lts ing tly ved ccu - acy as a ult .
ies and ect ors i . 123 ( ial nce ) : dge qui - on; i . 123 ( ial nce ) : ral age
emi - sed ing , rap ing , ion ion , web ing
ine ing hes ave een own to be ery ful for ion ion rom ext , ing ap - hes hat arn to act ous ies of ies ( e . g . , ete , ity ) and ons ( e . g . , uce - uct ) rom red and red ext ( 123 , 123 ) .
ver , sed ing of ate ity and ela - ion ors is tly , ing a ial ber of led ing les for ach ype of ity and ela - ion to be ted .
use of his , any ers ave red emi - sed ing ods hat use nly a all ber of led les of the ate to be ted , ong ith a rge ume of led ext ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ile uch emi - sed ing ods are ing , hey ten bit ble acy use the ted ber of ial led les is ent to bly ain the ing ess .
ure 123 : we how hat ant nts in acy ult rom ing the ing of ion ors for any ted ies and ons ( b ) , red ith the ler but uch ore ult ask of ing a gle ion tor ( a ) .
ion to ake tal or ard ies of all or art of his ork for nal or oom use is ted out fee ded hat ies are not ade or ted for rot or ial age and hat ies ear his ice and the ull ion on the rst age .
to opy ise , to ish , to ost on ers or to ute to sts , res ior cic ion and / or a fee .
123 , ary 123 , 123 , new ork ity , new ork , usa .
ght 123 acm 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 . . . 123 .
the sis red in his per is hat we can eve uch her acy in emi - sed ing by cou - ing the ous ing of any ors , as sug - ted in ure 123
the ion ere is hat the con - ned emi - sed ing ask can be ade ier by ing new nts hat ise rom ing the ing of any ors .
we ent an ach in ich the put to the emi - sed ner is an ogy ing a set of get ies and ons to be ned , a ful of eed ex - les for ach , and a set of nts hat ple the ous ies and ons ( e . g . , son and ort are lly ive ) .
we how hat ven his put and ons of led nts , a emi - sed ing ure can eve ery ant acy ove - nts by ing the ing of ors for ens of ies and ons .
we how hat our ral ap - ach ves ies hen ing oth ual - ern ors hat act ion rom orm ext ( e . g . , the ern yor of 123 as an tor for the ory ity ) and ers ich act rma - ion rom emi - red nts ( e . g . , the per <td ss= " cty " 123 < / td> rom ome cic url ) .
sed on lts ted ere , we ize hat ven ter acy nts ill be ble by ing a ore nse ork of ter - ned ing sks .
to - ard his end , we ore two ore cic nts .
rst , we ify ree ral pes of ing ong get ons hat can be ned to orm a nse ork of led ing ems .
ond , we ore the act of ing the ing of ors hat use orm ext ith ors hat age emi - red web ges , sed on the ion hat ese ent ues uld ake ent ors .
we eve hat the vel ons of his ork are as ows : our ork is the rst to ple the ous emi - sed ing of ory and ion ors .
it is lso the rst to ple the ing of ple rap - per ers by ing ual ion and ype ing ips .
lly , his ork is the rst to ple the ing ( her han the nal uts ) of orm - ext ex - ors and emi - red web age per ers by ing hat hey ake ent ors , a hod hat we how des her ies han ing her hod one .
ore lly , his per tes rge - ale cou - led ing as a egy to tly ove acy in emi - sed ing , ies ree nct pes of ing , and lly tes eir ity .
ted ork
in his per , we cus on a ing hod for emi - sed ing .
ing hes art ith a all ber of led eed les and era - ely row the set of led les ing igh - nce els rom the ent del .
uch hes ave own ise in ons uch as web age ion ( 123 ) , med ity ion ( 123 ) , ing ( 123 ) , and ine ion ( 123 ) .
ing hes to ion ion can eld ive lts ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ver , ter any ons , acy lly nes use er - ors in ing ate , a lem hat has een led tic ift ( 123 ) .
to uce ors ced in ned emi - sed ing , ral ods ave een red .
ing the ing of ory ors by ing osi - ive les of one ory as ive les for oth - ers has een own to elp mit his ine in acy ( 123 , 123 ) .
co - ing ods oit lly ent ons of the ure ace to oid ing ors ( 123 ) .
her non - ing ues ave sed the ion
hat ent ion ods uld ake ent ors to ate ing ons rom ple ex - ors to ove ion acy ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ype ing ion nts ing ble ity niz - ers can elp oid ect els ( 123 , 123 ) .
our ork lds on ese ent eas and ses hem to ple the lta - ous ped ing of any ory and ion ors in any ent ays .
ral ine ing rks ave een sed hat ize ons of nts on led ata ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ile lar in rit , our ork ers in hat we der ing any ent nds of nts to arn any ent ons sly .
in ask ing , sed ing of ted unc - ons her can eld her acy han ing hem ely ( 123 , 123 ) .
emi - sed ask ing has sed a ior hat ges ted els to ave lar ers ( 123 ) .
ese ods ire hat ted sks are lar ns; our ork its nal ays in ich ons can be ted , and kes no as - ons ing ity of ons oss the ent ons ing ned .
led ing
ral to his ork is the dea of ing the emi - sed ing of ple ons to ain our ing lem .
our hod ely ins ers in a elf - sed ner .
it rts by ing ers ing a all unt of led ata , hen ses ese ssi - ers to bel led ata .
the ost ent new els are ded to the ool of ata sed to ain the els ( we say hat ese new led les are ted ) , and the ess ats .
the ive ing is led by con - nts hat ict ble tes and ons .
123 pes of ing
we ave ied ree ral pes of ing : 123
put nts : for two ons fa : x ya and fb : x yb , if we now ome int on ues ya and yb for an put x , we can ire fa and fb to sfy his int .
for ple , if fa and fb are ean - ued ons and fa ( x ) fb ( x ) , we uld ain fb ( x ) to ave lue 123 ver fa ( x ) = 123
nal nts : for two ons 123 : 123 123 and 123 : 123 123 123 , we may ave a int on lid 123 and 123 irs for a ven 123 and any 123
we can ire 123 and 123 to sfy his int .
for ple , 123 uld ype eck lid rst nts of 123 , so hat 123 , 123 , 123 ( 123 , 123 ) 123 ( 123 ) .
lti - iew - ent nts : for a ion f : x y , if x can be ned nto two ews ere we ite x = ( cid : 123 ) 123 , 123 ( cid : 123 ) and we ume hat oth 123 and 123 can ict y , hen we can arn 123 : 123 y and 123 : 123 y and ain hem to ree .
for ple , y uld be a set of ble ies for a web age , 123 uld ent the rds in a age , and 123 uld ent rds in nks ing to hat age ( his ple was sed for the co - ing ing ( 123 ) ) .
123 ing nts sed in his per in his ork , the ons hat we arn are ory and ion ors , ich ide if a oun ase or air
of oun ses is an nce of ome ory or ion ( lly red to as a ate in the est of his per ) .
the ral pes of ing sed ove are sed to arn ese ons in ese cic ays :
ual ion : the put to our ner has a ist of irs of tes ich are lly ive .
ese ips are sed to rce an put int ver ces : lly ive tes not oth be sed by the ame put x .
ion ent ype ing : we ple the arn - ing of ion ors ith the ing of ory ors ing ype ing .
for ple , the rgu - nts of the tor ion are red to be of the ies any and mic - tor .
his is an ple of a nal int .
red and emi - red ext res : oun ses on the web ear in two pes of xts : orm ual xts and emi - red xts .
for ple , rgh urs on the web ith a dis - ion of orm ual xts uch as yor of 123 , and it lso ars ith a ion of emi - red xts uch as the tml ags for a ist tem at a lar url .
we ume hat her of ese ons is ent to ify a oun ase , and hat the two ons are lly ent ven the ass bel of the oun ase .
we ore ain two oun ase ers , one ing ach ype of ext ion , and ire hat the two ers ree on the bel for ach ven oun ase .
his is an ple of a lti - iew int .
in his ion , we ent hms ith ich we ves - ate the ity of ing emi - sed ing for ion ion ith ing .
the ral rob - lem sed by ese hms is to arn ors to lly ate the tes of a ied ogy ith igh - nce ces , ing rom a all set of eed ces for ach ate and a rge pus of web ges .
we cus on ing cts hat are ted lti - ple mes , ich we can ess lly ing pus ics .
we do not lve ngs to eal - rld ies : the ems of nym ion and ion of ngs hat can fer to ple ies are eft for ure ork .
we cus our ion of tes on ary ons ( ies ) and ary ons ( nes ith two nts , red to as ons in his per ) .
the cic uts to our hms are : a rge ext cor - pus and an ial ogy ith ned ies , re - ons , ual - ion ips een ame - ity tes , and eed ces for all tes .
ach ela - ion has an red air of ent pes , ich ify ies hat ion nce nts ust be mem - ers of .
ome nal ion is nly sed by orm - ext ion ods : eed ion rns for ate - ies , and a ag for ach ory ing her in - ces ust be per uns , mon uns , or can be her ( e . g . , ces of ity are per uns ) .
the rst thm , led ern ner ( cpl ) , is a ing thm hat ges ual - ion and ype - ing nts to arn igh - ion con - ual rns hat are ate ors of ate
thm 123 : led ern ner ( cpl ) put : an ogy o , and ext pus c put : ted ces / ual rns for
for i = 123 , 123 ,
ach ate p o do
act new ate ces / ual rns ing tly ted ter tes hat ate ng; ank ate ces / ns; ote top es;
ces .
the ond , led eal ( eal ) , is a set ion thm hat rns ers to act in - ces rom emi - red nts and its the ame two pes of ing nts .
ese two lgo - hms rve to ate hat put and nal ing ues can ove the acy of ped ing of ple pes of ors .
the nal thm , eta - rap ner ( mbl ) , les the ing of sub - ate ion hms ike cpl and eal ing 123 led ern ner
the led ern ner ( cpl ) thm rns to act ory and ion ces rom red ext , and is zed in thm 123
cpl rns con - ual rns hat are igh - ion ors for ach ate ( e . g . , 123 and her are rms and 123 red a oal for 123 ) and ses hem to row a set of igh - ion ate ces .
oun ses hat ll in the 123 and 123 nks of rns in ces in the ext pus are aid to co - cur ith ose rns .
at the art of ion , cpl zes ets of pro - ted ces and rns ith the eed ces and rns ded as put .
in ach ion , cpl nds ese ets of ted ces and rns for ach edi - ate ile ing ual ion and ype ing con - nts .
his is hed by ing out tes hat co - cur ith ces or rns rom lly ex - ive ses and by ing nts of ate ela - ons to be tes for the ant ies .
ach tep of cpl is sed in ore ail low : 123 . 123 ing tes to art ach ion , cpl nds new ate ces by ing the rns ted in the ast ion to ex - act oun ses hat co - cur ith ose rns in the ext pus ( in the rst ion , the eed rns are sed ) .
to eep the ize of his set ble , for ach ate , cpl cts the 123 tes hat cur ith the ost rns .
an ous ure is sed to ex - act ate rns ing tly ted ces .
we use art - of - ech - tag ics to mit ion to ces hat ear to be oun ses and rns hat are ely to be ive .
ese are bed ext : ory ces : in the ank of a ory ern , it ses art - of - ech
cpl oks for a oun ase .
ags to ent oun ses and res ers .
per oun ses ing ons or unc - ons are ted ing a ion of the lex thm ( 123 ) .
ory ces are red to bey the per / mon oun ion of the ory .
ory rns : hen a ted ory nce is und , cpl cts the ing rds as a can - ate ern if hey are rbs wed by a nce of ves , ons , or ers and ion - lly ded by uns ( e . g . , ing red by 123 or ies red by 123 ) or uns and jec - ves wed by a nce of ves , ons , or ers ( e . g . , mer ceo of 123 ) .
cpl ex - cts the rds ing the nce as a ate ern if hey are rbs wed lly by a oun ase ( e . g . , 123 oke the ome run ord ) , or rbs wed by a ion ( e . g . , 123 aid hat ) .
ion ces : if a ted ion ern ( e . g . , 123 is yor of 123 ) is und , a ate ion nce is ted if oth ers are lid oun ses ( ing to our art - of - ech - tag ics ) , and if hey bey the per / mon ons for
ion rns : if oth nts rom a ted ion nce are und in a nce hen the in - ing nce of rds is ted as a ate ion ern if it ins no ore han ve ens , has a ent ord , and has an zed ord .
123 . 123 ing tes ing ing ate ces and rns are red to rce ual ion and ype ing nts .
a ndi - ate nce is ted ess the ber of mes it co - urs ith a ted ern is at ast ree mes ore han the ber of mes it co - urs ith rns rom lly ive tes .
his oft int is uch ore ant of the ble ise in web ext as ell as ous oun ses han a ard int .
ate rns are red in the ame ner ing ted
123 . 123 ing tes ext , for ach ate cpl nks ate ces ing the ber of ted rns hat hey co - cur ith so hat tes hat cur ith ore rns are ked her .
ate rns are ked ing an es - ate of the ion of ach ern p :
p ion ( p ) =
ii unt ( i , p )
ere i is the set of ted ces for the ate der ion , unt ( i , p ) is the ber of mes in - nce i co - urs ith ern p in the ext pus , and unt ( p ) is the ber of mes ern p urs in the cor -
123 . 123 ing tes for ach ate , cpl hen tes at ost 123 in - ces and 123 rns ing to the ngs rom the ous tep .
ces and rns are nly ted if hey co - cur ith at ast two ted rns or in - ces , ely .
ion ces are nly ted
thm 123 : led eal ( eal ) put : an ogy o , and ext pus c put : ted ces / ers for ach ate for i = 123 , 123 ,
ach ate p o do
gin all ing eal ode to :
ery for nts ing tly arn ers for ach ent ed; act new tes ing rs;
ter ers hat act tes hat ank ate es; ote top es;
if eir nts are tes for the ied ies ( hat is , hey co - cur ith at ast one ted ern for the ory , and are not ted ces of a utu - lly ive ory ) .
123 . 123 rge - ale ion cpl was ned to low ent ing of any red - tes sly rom a rge pus of ces ex - ted rom web ext .
ing the ics ded rom the ext pus is the ost ive art of the thm .
the ics ded ome rom two pes of ies .
rst , in the ion tep , cpl has a ist of ted ces and rns , and eds to now ich rns and in - ces co - cur ith ose ces and rns .
sec - ond , in the ing and ing eps , cpl eds to now ich ate rns cur ith ich ted in - ces , and ich ate ces cur ith ich ted rns .
cpl ers ese ics rom a pre - sed ext pus ich ies how any mes ach oun ase urs ith ach ory ern in the cor - pus , and lso how any mes ach air of oun ses urs ith ach ion ern .
the ing can be one kly ing ing the uce ork ( 123 ) .
in ach ion of cpl , cpl ers pus ics rom his ata set by ing ugh the sed ata in two ses : one for ing tes and one for unt - ing co - ces .
cpl can orm one ass in out 123 tes rom a ata set ved rom 123 ion web ges ( see ion 123 . 123 for ils on the pus ) .
123 . 123 led ern ner in our nts , we use a ant of cpl led un - led ern ner ( upl ) ich ves the ing nts rom cpl .
tes are not red ing mu - ual ion ith her tes , and ion nts are not ype ked .
upl is ent to ent emi - sed ing of ach tor .
123 led eal
cpl is an ple of a emi - sed ext ern arn - ing thm hat is ded by ing .
to ate how ing can ove a ent , ady ted ex - ion thm we der eal ( 123 ) , a per duc -
. tml " ss= " pcp " 123 ts< / a> br> ura , udi , bmw , ick , lac , let , evy , ler , woo , tsu , dge , gle , ord , . . .
< / br> <a ef= " ews / 123 / ura , udi , bmw , ick , lac , let , ler , dge , ord , gmc , nda , dai , iti , uzu , . . .
<li ss= " ise 123 " > ><a ef= " # " > ick , let , ler , dge , ord , gmc , uzu , eep , oln , zda , ury , san , iac , ion , . . .
ble 123 : les of ers ted by eal for ous web ges ven the eds : ord , san , ota .
in the ble , 123 is a der for ing ces .
ion thm , and how we can add ing nts on top of an ing ion hat we eat as a ack box .
rst , we ill ibe the ing thm , and hen we ill ibe how we add ing nts .
eal is a set - ion tem hat pts put ele - nts ( eds ) of ome get set s and lly nds her ble nts of s in emi - red nts uch as web ges by ing the web ing the eds .
the thm ted in eal cts age - cic ex - ion les , or ers , hat are ent of the hu - man age and kup age of the web ges .
eal can and ets of ory ces as ell as ary ela - ion ces .
ery ory per is ned by har - ter ngs , ich ify the eft ext and ght con - ext ary for an ity to be ted rom a age .
ion nce ers lso are ned ing an inx ext hat tes the two nts of the nce .
ese ext ngs are ted to be lly - ong con - xts hat ket at ast one nce of ery eed on a age .
ble 123 ows a few les of uch ers for ies .
an nce is ted by a per if it is und ere in the ent ith eft and ght con - ext cal to hat of the per .
hen ven rge ets of eds , eal can be red to ple the eds ome ber of mes ( 123 ) .
ing les a set of the eds and ses hat set as a ery to a rch ine , ich is ary use ing all les in one ery uld lly not eld any hed lts .
eal oes not ave a ism for ing ual - ion or ype - ing nts .
ers for ach ate are ned tly in eal .
our lgo - thm , led eal ( eal ) , dds ese nts on top of eal .
eal is zed in thm 123
ach ion of ing , we oke eal ing the tly ted ces .
eal rns a ist of new ate ces and nts hat hey ere ted rom .
eal ers out any ent hat cts a can - ate nce hat is a ber of a lly ive ate .
lly , eal nly ers ate ion ces if eir nts are ate ces for the ive ory pes .
ese rms of ing uld ter out ses ere a led set of eds hap - ens to cur on a age but hat age oes not in act con - ain a lid ist of ate ces .
hey uld lso ter out ses ere ces of a ate hat is ore ral han the one ing ned are ted ( e . g . , if a ong ist of ons of ous pes is ent on a age , but we are ing ome cic ype of ion ) .
ter ing , eal nks all ate ces by the ber of red ers hat ted hem , and tes the top 123 ces hat ere ted by at
thm 123 : eta - rap ner ( mbl ) put : an ogy o , a set of ors e put : ted ces for ach ate for i = 123 , 123 ,
ach ate p o do ach tor e e do
act new tes for p ing e ith tly ted es;
ter tes hat ate ual - ion or ote tes hat ere ted by all
ast two ers .
to eal ith web ges rom the ame ain hat eat the ame ist , nly one age rom a do - ain is ted in ing tes .
out ing ion to ins , nal and her ate - ted nts hat eat any mes can lly kew the lts .
in our nts low , eal ers to the thm bed ere , and eal ers to eal out the l - ing tep : eal oes not ter out ers hat ex - act tes hat ate ual - ion ons , and eal oes not rce ion nce ype ing .
123 eta - rap ner
eta - rap ner ( mbl ) les the ing of ple ion ues ing a lti - iew int hat res hem to ree .
mbl is zed in lgo - thm 123
mbl is sed on the ion hat the ors ade by ent ion ues uld be ent .
in his per , the ate hms sed ith mbl are eal and cpl .
hen ing eal and cpl ith mbl , the ate hms do not ote ces on eir own .
ead , hey kip the ion tep and ort nce out ach ate to mbl , and mbl is ble for ing ces .
mbl ses a ple ion hod : mbl tes any nce hat has een ded by oth ues ile ing the ual - ion and ype - ing nts ied in
tal ion
we ned nts to ore ree ain ons : rst , oes ing ing ing ual - ion and
ype - ing nts ove the nce of cpl ive to led , ent ing ing upl ? sec - ond , do ual - ion and ype - ing nts im - ove the nce of eal ive to the led ods of eal ? lly , oes mbl eve ter for - nce han cpl and eal by ing eir uts ith a lti - iew int ?
to wer ese ons , we ran cpl , upl , eal , eal , and mbl ith cpl and eal as ate ex - ors for 123 ons of ing .
we hen red the ces in nce een ral irs of ods to see the cts of ing .
ect son to ous ork is ult for a num - ber of ons , ing the ack of ity of men - ons and the ack of a rge red web pus .
ver , our ion tly sts the ess of the led ach hat we are ing in his per .
we eve hat the led nes are ble and ive rge - ale led hes .
123 tal ogy
the ogy sed in all nts ned ies and ons rom two ain ins : ies and rts .
tra ies ere ded to ide ive nce to the ain - ted ies ( e . g . , bby for sec - or; tor , ian , and ist for ete and ch; and ame for ort ) and lso to ide der ety for nts ( e . g . , ape , ion ) .
ble 123 sts all of the ies in the ost umn , and ble 123 sts the ons in the ost umn .
ies ere zed ith 123 eed ces and 123 eed rns .
the eed in - ces ere ied by a man , and the eed rns for ach ory ere ved rom the ric rns of rst ( 123 ) .
ons ere zed ith 123 eed in - ces , 123 eed ive ces ( lly ect ria - ons of ive eed les ) , and no eed rns ( nce it is not ous how to ate ood eed rns rom ion mes ) .
ost tes ere red as lly ive ith one her ( les of ons ude eam and ty; tem and pe; and any and uct ) .
123 . 123 pus for cpl the ext pus sed by cpl was rom a 123 - ion - age web awl .
we sed the tml , red out non - ish ges ing a top - ord - tio old , hen red out web pam and ult ent ing a bad ord ist .
the ges ere hen ted nto ces , zed , and ged ith rts - of - ech ing the nlp age .
lly , we red the ces to ate ose hat ere ely to be isy and not ful for ing ( e . g . , ces out a erb , out any ase rds , ith too any rds hat ere all tal ers ) .
his ded a pus of hly 123 ion ces .
as sed in ion 123 . 123 , we sed ese ces to ate a ata set of oun ase and ual ern co - nce nts .
to age the ize of the ata set , we red out all oun ses and xts hat nly red nce in the pus .
his ded a ata set hat ned 123 ion que ual rns for ies , 123 ion que oun ses , 123 ion que irs of
oun ses hat co - cur her , and 123 ion que ual rns for ons .
123 . 123 ers for eal in our nts ith eal and eal , we sed an ion ded by the nal ors of eal .
eal was red to ple the les ded 123 mes for ies and 123 mes for ons to ate the ely her ity of ons .
eal ded up to 123 web ges for ach rch ery ing lts rom the gle rch ine .
hus , the pus for eal was the web as xed by gle .
the mum ext gth for a per was set to 123 , ich ant hat ach art of a per ded to be at ast 123 ers ong .
123 . 123 ral tal ure hen ing two hms , we ran ach thm for 123 ons of ing , and hen sed the ces ted by the hms .
to ate the pre - ion of all ces ted by an thm on a per - ate sis , we led 123 ces rom the set of ted ces for ach ate , led her the les , and ted the ces to cal urk for ing .
his ave an ate of how ate all of the ces ere and red the ree to ich a par - lar hod ded tic ift .
we lso red hms at ing els of all .
for ach ate , we nly red the rst k ces ted by ach thm , ere k was the mum ber of ces ted for hat ate een the two hms .
we fer to his hod of son as the mum all hod in the lts low .
we led 123 ces rom ach of ese two ets of ces , and lso ted hem to cal urk .
ile les of 123 ces do not uce ght con - nce als for ual tes of ion for a gle ate , hey are ent for ing for the cts in ich we are ted .
cpl can bly act the per ase of an nce , but sts of ems on the web ten use ary ase con - ons , so eal not bly act the per ase of an nce .
use of his , our ion red ase , and ted all ces to the ors in wer ase .
123 . 123 cal urk ing the ous tes of ion red for our val - ion ded 123 que ces .
we ted ach of ese ces to cal urk for ing and had ree ent als bel ach nce .
cal urk has een own to be an ive and ast hod for ing els for age sks ( 123 ) .
to ate the acy of the els ced by his ure , we led 123 ces at dom , and lly ged the acy of eir els .
we und hat 123 out of the 123 ere tly led ing the ity ote .
the our er - ors ere : a lse ive ith ogy ere led as an eld ( the ers red the ion ror ) , and ree lse ves : rms as a ion - ion , ove ats as ure , and the ion in - nce any ( bhp , rio ) .
his sts hat the els may be sed rds lse ega - ves , ich in urn sts hat our ion tes in the der of the per may be tic .
ted ces ( # )
cpl upl eal eal mbl
cpl upl eal eal mbl
ble 123 : ion ( % ) and nts of ted ces for ach ory ing cpl , upl , eal , eal , and
ted ces ( # )
cpl upl eal eal mbl
cpl upl eal eal mbl
ble 123 : ion ( % ) and nts of ted ces for ach ion ing cpl , upl , eal , eal , and mbl .
123 . 123 ary ine als ral ent pes of als rom our ion are ted ine at ttp : / / rtw . ml . cmu . edu / ine :
eds for all tes .
all ces ted by mbl , cpl , upl , eal ,
all ual rns ted by ern ing in the
mbl , cpl , and upl nts .
ble dge ses in xml mat of all pro - ted ces and ate ces rom the uns of mbl , cpl , and eal , ith rns and rls hat ted ach nce .
all nts ned rom cal urk .
an ple hot rom a cal urk ask .
tes sed to ate the cal urk sks ,
ich may be of ral use .
123 ual ion and ype ing
to ore the cts of ing tes ing ual - ion and ype - ing nts , we red cou - led and led ods for ing ual pat - rns for orm ext : cpl : the thm as bed in ion 123 .
upl : his hod is an led ion of pl; it oes not ple tes ing ual - ion con - nts or ype ing .
ion nce nts are not red ing eir ies and ate in -
ces and rns are not red out sed on vio - ons of ual ion .
the mon / per oun ons of nts are sed to ter out lau -
we lso red led and led ods for ing ers to act sts of ces rom emi - red web ges : eal : the thm as bed in ion 123 .
eal : his hod ses the ion of eal ded by the ors of eal .
as in the upl hod , it oes not ple the ing of tes ing ual - ion nts or ype ing .
ble 123 ves tes of the ion of ted in - ces for ach ory for ach thm , as ell as the ber of ted ces for ach ory ter 123 ter - ons .
the age row ges oss all tes for ich ces ere ted .
the ted age is an ate of the nce - vel ion oss all edi - tes ned by ing the ion for ach ate by the ber of ces ted for hat ate .
ta - ble 123 ves his ion for ach ion , as ell .
oss all ies and ons , cpl has her age eci - ion han upl , and eal has her age ion han eal .
ese lts est hat ing ing ype ing and ual ion tly ces the ror tes of the ned ors .
her hod of ing ich hms orm the est is to use the ign est , ich is a non - ric
cpl vs .
upl eal vs .
eal mbl vs .
cpl mbl vs
123 123 vs .
123 123 vs .
123 123 vs
123 123 vs .
123 123 vs .
123 123 vs
ble 123 : ous irs of ods red sed on the ion of all ons for ach ate ( all ons ) and the ion of the ces ted cut o at the mum all out of the air for ach ate ( mum all ) .
ins ord how any tes had ior ion for ach hod , and the p - lue ing to a ign est is ven .
all re - lts are lly ant at the 23% vel ept for eal vs .
eal at mum all .
ure 123 : les of ted cts .
the iza - ons of are ere ven in the eed gy; all her cts ere red by cpl .
ues own for ces and tor for oft - are are a set of the ull set of ted ues .
sis est .
the est tic ded to are , for ex - ple , cpl ith upl , is ned by ing the ber of tes for ich cpl med ter han upl , and ice rsa , ing ies .
his est lly les tes ere nly one hod ted ces : we fer the hod ich ted ome ces her han one for uch tes .
ble 123 res cpl vs .
upl and eal vs .
eal for the ion of all ted ces for ach ate , as ell as the mum all ple sed ove .
cpl rms lly tly ter han upl for oth ods of ing .
eal is tly ter han eal ith ect to the ion of all ons , but is not tly ter hen ing all to the mum all for ach ate .
ese lts nrm hat ing lds tly her ies oss all tes han ing ent , led ing .
the lts for eal vs .
eal est hat ing nts eal rom ing ome ect ces but ith ome oss in all .
ure 123 ves ome les of the ype of ion ted in our nts .
the ial eed les pro - ded ied hat are is a ype and an eco - or; the est of the ion in the ure was ted by cpl .
123 ple ion ues
les 123 and 123 lso ive tes of the ion of pro - ted ces for ach ate for mbl ter 123 era - ons .
oss oth ons and ies , mbl has the est ion of ted ces out of all of the al -
hms red , ich tes hat ing the lti - iew - ent int lts in her nce of se - tic ift .
ble 123 ves ign est lts for ing mbl vs .
cpl and mbl vs .
eal , ich ows us to dge her or not mbl ves ver its ate hms .
all ign sts how lly ant dif - ces : mbl is ior to oth cpl and eal hen ing oth the ion of all ted ces as ell as the ion of ted ces at the mum all of her hod .
his sts hat ing cpl and eal ith a lti - iew ing int hat as - mes ent ors lds ore ate ing han her hod sed one .
the lts ted ere ate hat ing ore
ing ves the acy of our ned ors .
one of the est ges in ing rap arn - ing hms is ing hen to top the rap - ing ess .
lly , an thm uld be ble to ect the ies of a sed set .
in his ect , the lts for the try ory for mbl are rly ing .
mbl ted 123 ces of ies ith an ted ion of 23% .
eal ted 123 ces ith an ted ion of 23% .
out ing , try per - rms rly , ing nto a ore ral ion ory .
the ies for ich the led hms ill ave the ost lty ( e . g . , ype , ent , its , les ) end to be mon uns .
we ect hat a ore ete chy of mon uns uld ter ain ese ies and eld ter ies .
the led hms lly had igh ies for ons , but red rom ity .
uip - ent red use the ent ory per - med rly , ing in bad ype ing .
cap - tal and ity ted to the ore ral ons of ity and has - ity .
ese ter two ses can be ved by ing the ity to fer ive les ing the dge hat ese are nal ons : rns hat act ple als for the ame ity uld be red out ing his dge .
our nts ded ve ons for ich no in - ces ere ted by any hms : hes - ete , ium , phy - ent , ium , and eis - ete .
ese ons how hat ome re - ons are not asy to act ing the ion ods sed in his per .
ver , any of ese ons uld be red rom ces ted in our ent ork .
we lan to ate ing to fer uch ons .
we ave ted ods of ing the emi - sed ing of ory and ion nce ex - ors and ted lly hat ing ore - lls the lem of tic ift ted ith oot - rap ing ods .
his cal nce ads us to ate rge - ale led ing as a egy to nif - tly ove acy in emi - sed ing .
are isa : uct ype , mic tor ces : nes , cel , obe hop , oft ook , cad , zaa tor : sys , sap , oft , ibm , pro , ers isa : mal , rts eam ium : ica ark ach : les les phy : rld ies eam : ees , als , sox , ite sox , red sox , ors nts his ork is ted in art by rpa , gle , a hoo ! hip to rew son , and the ian rch ies npq and pes .
we lso lly owl - dge mie lan for ing ble his ion of web ges , hoo ! for use of eir 123 ing ter , and the ous ers for eir nts .
