ion , ith a rch - sed ner the bot ent lly ses ich ion it is to orm , ing the lus - nse tem hen ble , and ing ack on the ing tem hen ary .
ver ced to lan , it ies an ion - sed ism to ate a new lus - nse ule to ver his new ion and ers lar to it .
ith nce , the ent mes gly ive as its ing ent res new lus - nse les hat ate the eed for ing in lar ent ons .
his heo - ent ure is bed , and lts are ted ing its ity to uce ime for a ple ile bot rom tes to der a ond .
ion and ion
uch ion has
tly on ive res for tic nts hat lly nse eir ent and ute ate ons to eir nse uli hin ded ime ( e . g . , ( oks , 123 , gre and man , 123 , ein , 123 ) ) .
uch res fer ges ver ore nal pen - oop rch - sed ing ems use hey can act ore kly to ges to eir ent , and use hey can ate ore tly in lds hat are ult to del in nce .
rch - sed ing res , on the her and , fer the age of ore ral - ose ( if wer ) lem ing sms ich ide the ity to eal ith a ore rse set of ted als and ons .
his per ers the ion of how to ine the its of ive and rch - sed res ing ous nts .
we ibe the heo - ent ure , ich tes oth a ive ent and a rch - sed ing ent .
the tal ign ple of the heo - ent is hat it cts hen it can , ans hen it ust , and rns by ing its ive ent ver it is ced to lan .
hen sed to rol a ory ile bot , the heo - ent in ple ses rns to uce its ion
ime for new sks rom ral tes to ess han a
the rch ted ere is art of our ger ort ure , and lds on ier ork bed ( the and ell , 123 ) .
we eve hat in der to ome gly ful , a ing bot ill ave to ate ral pes of ing :
123 it ust ome gly ect at ing
the cts of its ons in the rld .
q it ust ome
123 it ust ome gly ive , by ing the ime red for it to ake nal es; to ose ons ent ith the ove ons and its als .
ose res of
act its ess .
his per ses on the ond of ese pes of ing .
we ibe how the heo - ent ses the ope of ons for ich it can kly ake nal ver it is ced to lan for a ion ide the ent ope of its ive ent .
sed ing ism ces les hat end ely the ame ion as ded by the wer ner , in tly ose ons in ich the ame lan ale uld ply .
ver , the ned les fer the red ion ely rom the put nse ata in a gle nce tep - - out ing tly the ots als , ble
ted ork
ere has een a eat eal of ent ork on res for bot rol ich lly nse the ent and ate in ded ime ( e . g . , ( oks , 123 , ers , 123 , gre and man , 123 ) ) , ugh his ype of ork has not tly sed ues of ing .
res rms tem ( gre , 123 ) ies ion - sed ing to ire ing ics for a ted and - eye tem , and rds oar ( ird and oom , 123 ) has een ied ems in a eal and - eye bot tem .
ile ese ers are our oal of ing ems hat are
to rol an oor
the ing res ary tly in the orm of the dge ing ned , ing ons , and eal nse ime .
ton has sed an ive ach to ing bot rol ies , in his yna tem ( ton , 123 ) , and eau has ped a ist tem ich ( eau , 123 ) .
in ion to ork on ing uch bot rol ies , ere has een uch ent est in bot ing ore lly , ing ork ect els of ons ( sen , et al . , 123 , mic and rth , 123 ) , and ork on ing
the ork ted ere is lso hat ted to ent eas for ing low - vel ive ems rom igh - vel ons ( e . g . , ( ein , 123 ) ) .
lar , uch ion rms put ons of ons and als nto ive rol ies , ing ons lar to ose ved by ion - sed ing in the heo - ent .
the ain nce ion - sed ing sed in the heo - ent , is hat for the heo - ent ion ion is lly sed by the lds lly red by the ent , and may be ved ith her ing sms ich ove the nts els of its ons .
the ent , so hat
the ext ion of his per bes the heo - ent in ter ail .
the ent ion nts an ple of its use in ing a ple ile bot , the ing ism for ing new ect of ing and ule ing on tem ion ime .
the nal ion zes ome of the ons of his ork , ing res and ugs in the ent ign of the ure .
les , and ing ata ing
the heo - ent ure
the oal of ing
the ign of the heo - ent ure is ily ges of ive and rch - sed ems .
ive ems fer the age of ick nse .
rch - sed ers fer the age of oad ope for ing a ore rse nge of ted lds .
the heo - ent ure oys oth , and ses ing to lly ent its ive ent ver ced to lan .
in ion , the ure kes ead use of ing and to oid ess ion of dly sed efs .
the ary ics of the heo - ent are :
e it lly
ses hat ion
orm .
the ent uns in a ght oop in ich it dly tes its sor uts , ses a rol ion , ins ing it , hen ats his
e it cts hen it can , and ans hen it ust .
it ust ose an ion , the tem lts a set of lus - nse ute its ive ent .
if one of ese les ies to the ent sed uts , hen the ing ion is ken .
if no les ply , to ine an
it res a new lus - nse ule .
the new ule nds the ion ich the ner has ded , in the ame ons ( i . e . , ose rld tes for ich the ame lan ion uld ply ) , but can be ked uch ore tly .
ing is hed by an ion - sed ( ell , et al , 123 ) ) , and des a and - ven tal ion nto an ent of the ers dge l ery ief
hat nds on ory
ned as ong as its ion ins lid .
ief of ich ion to orm ext , end tly or tly on ved nse ata .
the ure ins a ork of ons for ery ief of the ent , and tes efs nly hen eir ort ses .
his ing of efs tly ves the nse ime of the ent by ing ion of efs in the ace of ing or ant sor uts .
in the heo - ent ,
e it nes ich oal to end to , sed on the ved rld ate , a ned set of oal ion and ion ons , and ven ies ong als .
123 ved . rld . - p ' sen .
+ - - - - - - - - k - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ure 123 - l : ata low in a heo - ent
the ent tly ses
nal ure of ent : a heo - ent is ned by a ame ure ose ots , ots , ots , etc .
ine the nts efs , or nal tel .
the two ost ant ots of the ent are sen . ion , ich rm; and ved . rld , ich bes the nts ent ion of its rld .
as ted in ure 123 - l the ent may fer its sen . ion her tly rom its ved . rld , or ely rom its ent lan .
its lan is in urn ved rom its ved . rld and ded . to . oal .
the ded . to . oal nes the oal to eve , and is ted as the est ity of its ive . als , ich are ves red rom the ved . rld .
is tly ing
ent als : als are ied
to the ent by ing ons der ich hey are ive , ied , and ded to .
for ple , an ent may be ven a oal rge . ery ich is ned to ome ive hen it ves its ery vel to be ess han 23% , mes ied hen the ery rge is oo% , and ich is ded to ver it is ive and the ( her ity ) oal oid . ing . cle
ing icy : the sic ion of the heo - ent is to dly fer a lue for its sen . ion lot .
ach lot of the ent lly has one or ore hed res for ing a lue pon and .
ese lly ess her ots , ing to ots of the ved . rld .
ver ome lot lue is lly lue is hed ( red ) in the ing lot , ong ith an ion ing its lue in rms of her lot ues , ich are in urn ied in rms of ers , ing lly to ues of ual res in the ved . rld , ich are ves red by tly ing the bot ors .
ues ain hed for as ong as eir ons ain lid .
hus , the nts ive . als and sen . ion may ain hed for any les , ite ant ges in sor uts .
his icy of ays ing ues , ing ely hen ons ome lid , and ily ing pon and , res hat the nts efs in its put ses , out
rol icy : the heo - ent
is led by
ing the ing oop :
nse and ate ngs for all rly sed res of ved . rld , and ete any hed ues for izy sed res .
ide pon the ent sen . ion 123
ute the sen . ion
hen the sen . ion lot is sed ( ing the ion ion of the ove cle ) , the ing eps are ted in nce til one eds : 123
eve the hed lue of his lot ( if ble ) 123
fer a lue sed on the ble lus -
ect the rst tep of the nts lan ( ing a
lan if ary )
ect the ult ion ( e . g . , ait ) ing icy : ach ive sed put ( e . g . , an ray of put nar ata ) is red in ome lot of the nts ved . rld .
her vel res uch as ges in the nar ray , ons , ion dth , etc . , are ved . rld , and are red pon and rom the wer - vel res .
the ion - ing ons of the ent raw pon the ire nge of low to igh vel ory res as ded .
in der to eal ith a ety of ing res of ing ost , the heo - ent pes of ive sed ose - ich it rly ses , and ose ich it rly sed res are hed lly ing ach cle ugh the nts ain oop , so hat ent hed efs of the ent are ned hen ble .
in ast , ily sed res are ply ted ing ach cle .
ted nly if the ent ies the ing lot ing ome ent cle .
his ion een rly and ily hed res des a ple cus of ion ich ows ing the ead of ing new nse ata ing ach cle to a mum .
ing icy : ver the ent is ced to lan in der to ain a lue for its ion , its ion - sed ion ine to ire a new lus - nse ule to ver his ion .
the ils of his ine are bed in ter ail in the ext ion .
the ect of his ing icy lly end the ope of the set of lus - red by the tem in its rld .
the pes of lem
ple and lts
the use of
his ion bes
to rch the ory
ure to lop a ple ram to rol a ero 123 ile bot age ns* .
in lar , we ate how als and ons are ded to the bot ith no ial lus - cts ons by ing ans , and how it lly tes lus - nse les hat ver its ine ons .
the bot ors sed in his ple
nic nar ted on its and , a ing nar on
the heo - gen t is ted
ing and ing
and ing sms .
tem led heo ( ell , et al . , 123 ) ,
on top of a ric
23a led ion of the m . ied ero 123 bot sed ere is
in ( lin , et al . , 123 ) .
its ead , and a ery age sor .
by ing its and and ead ars it is ble to ain ays of nar ngs hat ure cho nce sus ion gle .
ese raw nar ngs are ted ( on and ) to ate ges in the nar ray , as ell as ons , and ies of ons uch as ion dth , nce , ion , and ity .
the ive ing ons sed in the ery age vel , arw , ich res nar nge eep . ist . oll , ich ins an ray of nar ngs by ing the ist rom eft to ght .
of ese sed res , arw is rly sed , and the ers are ily sed .
the ist nar ted tly
ude ery , ich
the bot ons ere
ard 123 hes ) , ard . 123 ( ove ard 123 ( urn ard the est nar in ont of the bot ) , and ure . the . ect ( ain ral nal nar eps her the est nar ion in ont of the bot is a age can ) .
the . ect ers to the est nar ion in ont of the bot , as ted by the nse ure
his heo - ent has een ted by ing it ent ets of ial als , ing it to ile out ent ets of lus - nse les ing ent ors .
in the ple ple ted ere , the ent is ven
the arw nse
123 oal . ser : ach ant cts .
his oal is een 123 and 123 hes , ing an ect at it is ied hen arw is ess hat 123 hes , and ded
123 oal . her : ack off rom ose cts .
his is ted hen arw is een 123 and 123 hes , ied hen arw is ter han 123 hes , and ded to ver it is ive .
est nar ion nds to a age can .
his is ted hen ere is an ect in ont of the bot ose is own , ied hen the ect ity is own , and ded to oal . her are ive .
in der to ate the ion of the heo - ent , der the nce of nts hat lts rom ing the bot ose in the lab ith the ove als , ons , and ing nes : ing the rst ion ugh its oop , it ( rly ) ses a ing of 123 rom arw , ing an ect at 123 hes .
in the ide ase of sen . ion lot , ich has no hed lue , and no ted lus - nse les .
hus , it is ced to lan in der to ine a lue for sen . ion .
the ner nes ich oal the ent is ing to , hen hes for a nce of
ons ich it cts ill sfy his oal .
hus , the ner ies the ing . to . oal lot , ich ies the ive . als ots , ich ery the rld , the ner , ter ome rch , hen ves a two - tep lan to ute two mes in a row ( his lan ads to a ted nar ing of 123 hes , ich uld sen . ion lot is hus ard . 123 ( the rst tep of the
the ent hes the ult of ach of the ove lot ies , ong ith an ion hat ies ach lot lue in rms of the ues rom ich it was ved .
tes ach ief ( lot his ork of ons lue ) of the ent lly to sed res of its
in the ove rio the ent had to uct a lan in der to fer its sen . ion .
ore , it tes a new lus - nse ule ich ill end sen ion in ure ons , out ing .
the ent hen tes the ion and ins a new cle by the arw ure and ing any her sed res ( in his ase the ved ery vel , ich was ied by the ner as it ked the for ous ons ) .
ing his ond cle , the lus - nse ule ned ing the rst cle ies , and the ent kly des ute ard . 123
as it ins nce , res nal les and an ing ion of its ons are ade by ing ese lus - nse les her han ing .
in the new ion
ule ing
the ule ion ure sed by the heo - ent is an ion - sed ing thm led ebg ( ell , et al , 123 ) .
his ure ins why the sen . ion of the heo - ent is ied , nds the est ons der ich his ion lds , ely , ven ome sen . ion , ? ion , the heo - ent ins why ? ion ied . ion ( ? ent , ? ion ) t
( 123 ) the ing . to . oal of the ? ent is ? g ( 123 ) ? g is ied by ult of ? nts lan ( 123 ) the ail of ? nts lan ill not eed out
rst ing ? ion
( 123 ) ? ion is the rst tep of the ? nts lan
sen . ion is a ied . ion as ned ove , hen nes the est ons on the ved . rld
der ich his ion ill 123
der , for ple , a rio in ich the ero ent is ing to and has ted a the oal oal . ify . the . ect , ure 123 - l ows the ion ted by the tem for why ace . the . ect in his ure , ach ine nds to ome ief of the ent , and vel of ion cts ncy .
ach ief is ten in the orm ( ame lot .
. . ) lue .
and ows uch as c - - ved . lue - - ate how the ief ove and eft of the row was red rom the efs low and to its ght .
for ple , the ost ief hat the ros is ted by the ( 123 oal . ify . ect ied ? ) =t , and ( 123 ) ( wo ure . the . ect rec . sat ? ) nil .
wo is the ent ved . rld , 123 is the rld ate ich is ted to ult rom the nts lan , and rec . sat ? the ate ing her the ons of an ion are ied in a ven rld ate .
ese ree ing efs ond to the rst ree ses in the ove ion of ied . 123
ice the ird use tes hat in his ase the ail of the nts lan not eed nce the ons of the ond tep of the lan are not ied in the ial ved rld .
( 123 ) ity of the . ect
is not own
( 123 ) arw in ved . rld ( 123 ) not ( 123 < ? s < 123 ( 123 ) not ( 123 < ? s < 123 ( 123 ) ery in ved . rld ( 123 ) nce to the . ect
( 123 ) 123 <= ? ist <= 123 ( 123 , 123 ) ion to the - ect
( 123 ) not t - 123 <= ? dir <= 123
( 123 ery ) = 123 ( 123 ery ved - lue )
( 123 ery ) = 123
nce ) = 123
ion own ? ) = t
nce ) = 123
ion ) = 123
( 123 ery ved . lue )
ion own ? ) = t
of ero = ace - the - ect
ure 123 - 123 : ule for ion rom ure 123 - l
ure 123 - 123 ows the ish ion of the ule rom the ion of eft of ach ule
ced by the heo - ent ure 123 - l . - the ber
ure 123 - 123 : ion for ( ero ied . ion ) = ace . the . ect
ird use ion ied . ion res
hat the rst tep of the lan be ial to the ans ess .
out his ent , the ion is too eak , and can uce les hat end non - ial ons uch as ait , ded hey can be
the rth use is not ven ade cit , nce his is ied by
ing the ule ion to end the ent ion .
ied . ion ich is ted by his ion .
for ple , the rst our nes in the ule ure hat the bot is in a rld ate for ich it uld end to the ( i . e . , hey ure hat his oal ill be ive , and hat all her ity als ill be ive ) .
of rse his ule eed not tly ion his oal or any her , nce it ead ons ved nse res ich ply the ion of the ant als .
rly , the ule eed not ion the lan , nce it ead ons ose ons , led ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , ich ure hat the rst tep of the lan ill ead lly to ing the red oal .
in all , the ent lly rns rom ive to een lus - nse les for his set of als and ons , ing on its fic ces and the nce in ich hey are red .
by ing and ing her als and ons , her nts can be ied hat ill ile out nto ets of lus - nse les hat uce ent ors .
act of nce on ent ion ime ith nce , the cal ion ime of the heo - ent in the ove rio ops rom a few tes to der a ond , due to its ion of lus - nse les and its ing of efs .
let us ine ion ime as the ime red for a gle ion of the nse - ide - ute oop of the ent .
rly , ine ing ime , ion ime , and ion ime as the ime red for the ing ons of his cle .
ion ime is ced by two ors :
l ion of lus - nse les .
ing a lus - nse ule res on the der of ten nds , eas ing lly res
l ing of efs out ure rld tes .
the ime red by ing is ced as a ult of ing all ent efs .
ons of ure rld tes red by the ner ( e . g . , the ist nar ing in the rld hat ill ult rom ing the ion to the ent ved . rld ) are hed , and ain as efs of the ent ven ter its sed rld is ted .
ome hed res of his ned ure rld may ome hed ach cle as old sed ues are ced by wer nes , but ers end to ain .
the ent in ent ion ime is zed in the ing ata rom a cal rio , own in ble 123 - l .
the rst ine ows ion ime and tal ion ime for a nse - ide - ute cle in ich a lan ust be ted .
ice hat ere ion ime tes the ulk of ion ime .
the ond ine of his ble ows the ost of ing a ery lar lan on the ext cle .
the dup ver the rst ine is due to the use of lot the rst ing ues ich ere hed ing
ble 123 - i : ect of ing on ent nse ime
( ngs are in isp on a 123 ion )
ode , and ose ons ain lid ugh the ond cle .
the ird ine ows the ing for a ird cle in ich the ent ied a set of ned lus - the ame ion .
ere , ion ime ( 123 sec . ) is ble to ing ime ( 123 sec ) and the ime to ate ion of the bot ion ( 123 sec . ) , so hat ion ime no ger tes the ulk of all ion ime .
the ion ime is und lly to re ire 123 + 23r sec .
to est a set of r lus - nse les .
res ove are ent on the lar ent als , ors , ing nce , ons , etc .
ing to ore lex nts hat ire eds or nds of lus - nse ned lus - nse ngs .
hes uch as ete ing , or ing lus - nse ngs in ( ein , 123 , oks , 123 ) may be ant for ing to ger ems .
at ent , the ant ult ted ere is ply the nce oof hat the ing sms yed in the heo - ent are ent to uce ion ime by two ers of ude for a eal bot ith rly ple als , so hat ion ime ses to ate all ion ime of the ent .
for ing and ing
ype of ork
ary , ons and ure ork
the key ign res of the heo - ent are : e a lus - nse
tem ned ith a ing ent of der ope but wer ime .
his ion ows ick nse for ine ons , lus ity to lan hen vel ons are red .
ent of the tem .
hen ced to lan , the ent tes new lus - nse les hat
les are ply ted in nce ith no ted ing or
lel tch hms .
uce ely the ame ion as the ent lan , in ely the ame ons .
123 the ent ses
its own als sed on the sed rld ate , oal ion ons and ive oal ies .
als are tly lus - nse les ows , the ncy ith
the ent nly hen the ber of
the ent tly ers
hed ong ith an ion
123 ing and ncy nce
efs of the ent .
ery ief of the ent is ose efs on ich it nds .
ver the ent nse uts nge , ent efs ich are ted are ted , to be ted if and hen hey are tly ied .
123 ion een rly and ily hed in der to ize the wer und on ion ime , ted nse res are rly ted ing ach ent cle .
her res are ily ted by ing hem and hem if and hen hey are red .
cus of ion ism hat lps ize nse ime .
in lly rol the ent of rly and ily sed res .
ere are ral ble sms of the ent
ure , we ope
ons .
ong ese are :
123 the ind of ing the ent rms may be lly ult in any ons , due to ack of dge out the rld , the ely cts of the nts ons , or her ges in the rld .
one ble nse to his ion is to add new ion - ing sms ond the ent ner and lus - nse tem .
for ple , one uld ine a ion - ker ion ver rld tes , ith an ion ons sed on one - tep ead ( lar to hat sed ( ing , 123 ) , a rum of ple - ion ess .
ver , ing sms uch as ose sed ere ght ill ile lus - nse les rom the ons ced by his rum of ion - ers .
gly ive , its ons do not ome nse les are nly as ood as the ner and ion els rom ich hey are led .
we are ted in ing the tem to low it to ely arn ter els of the cts of its ons , as a ult of its nce .
ary
lts ith his ind of ing ing a and - eye bot are bed in ( sen , et al . , 123 , mic and rth , 123 ) .
in nly nor ays
* the ent ner ers the ess of its ans , but not the ost of ing or tor nds .
ore , the ans and the lus - nse les ved rom hem may fer to nse res ich are ite ive to ain , and ich ute in der to tee ess of a lan to ick up a cup , it ght be ary to ify hat the cup is not ued to the oor .
the ent tem uld ude uch a est in the lus - nse ule hat nds the asp ion , ded his ure was red by the ner .
we ust ind a way to low the ent to ose ich sts are ary and ich can be red in der to uct ble ans hat it can hen mpt , and ver rom as ded .
123 ing ues .
as ted in the ous ion , the ent bot tem res nly a all set of lus - nse les to ern its ior .
we ust der how the ach can be led to ore lex ons .
ome ues are to ( 123 ) dge ( e . g . , dex les by oal , so hat any ets of les are red her han a gle set ) , ( 123 ) lop a ore ive egy for ing ing nly hen the its igh the sts , and ( 123 ) der ons of the rol xed nal ost ral rks ith ant nse ime ) .
hat ice ive ion
the ion of
ive ems rom ore ral but wer rch - sed ems is an ant ach ard ing the ity of tic ems ile ill ing mes .
the fic ign of the heo - ent tes one way to ize uch a tem .
our ent ure by ing new ing sms hat ill low it to ove the ess of its ion els and its ies to lly ive its rld .
ese nal ing ies are ded to ent the ype of ing ted ere .
is to end
nts .
his ork is sed on ons to ier int ork ith jim the , ted in ( the and ell , 123 ) .
ant ons to the ign of the heo - ent .
nks lso to the ire heo oup , ich ced the heo tem on ich heo - ent is ilt .
heo des ion , and ing
i am ost ful
sms sed by the heo - ent .
lly , nks to ong - ji lin who ped a ber of the nes for ing rom ons to the bot .
his rch 123 - 123 - k - 123 and by asa der rch act
by rpa der
