pe ob re ar co of tw ma st : a fe ex st th ex lo - fe ve fr re sp im pa , an a so ge su cl .
th rs st is of co of th ma mo : ( 12 ) a ba of lt ( of or ed de ) ; ( 12 ) a no - li tr , su as a po - wi sq fu , qu , or no ( 12 ) a sp po op wh co th ou of si lt ov ne re .
we pr a me th au le su fe ex in an un fa by si le th lt an th po un th co mu lt ou to .
th me au ge to ma of si lt th ex fe of or , sc , an po .
th si lt ar po to , pr lo - in ou .
th le fe de gi co re as si on im re ta fo wh si is we su , an be re th si on ta fo wh si is le we
a cr im co of ev re sy is th fe ex .
mu of th re pr - al fo ob re sy ar ba on fe de - sc ex fr lo pa pl at re - sp gr - po on th im ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th mo su an mo co - us de su as si an ho ( 12 , 12 ) ar de to be in ( or ro - bu ) to mi tr of th in , su as tr - ti , ro , an ot af tr an di .
th pr pa pr a ne me to au le lo - in fe de fr da in an un ma .
wh go de ha be de fo gr im re , th de of go
de fo ot ty of in da is a co ta .
th ab to le th fe wo al us to au - ma co go de fo ne im ty ( e . g .
mu im , ra im ) , an fo ot in - pu mo ( e . g .
au , so ) .
mo ex lo de ar ba on a si ar - ch : th pa is co wi a lt ba ( of co of or ed de ) , th ou of wh ar re an of no an qu .
th , th ou of ea lt ar sp po us a si ad - di or a ma op , so as to bu lo ba of fe - tu .
th po op ma th de ro to mi ch in th po of in fe .
th ar is so si ( an in by ) th mo co ac mo of ea ar of th ma pr vi co : si ce de or ed at va lo an sc ( pl th sa ro as th lt ba ) .
hi - ac si ce in ot ce at ne lo an or ( si to lo - ca no an / or qu ) , wh co ce sp po th re ou of co ce , so as to cr a lo in to sm sh ( li th po op ) ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th me pr he si - ne le th lt an th po fu , so th lt th re on si im pa en up in th sa po .
as a re , si pa wi pr si de -
th pr of le lo - le im fe ha be a to of gr in in re ye .
se - er au ha pr un me to le im de ba on sp / ov de - si ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) , bu no ha ex pr fo lo in .
su le me ha lo be us in co wi co ne to le lo - le , lo in fe th ar tu to th ta at ha ( 12 , 12 ) , bu th me re la nu of la sa .
a nu of di pr ha ap fo un le of lo - in de - sc , wh al us sp cr ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
ou ai is to le th lt ba st an th po
12 - 12 - 12 - 12 - 12 / 12 / $1 12 ie
st si , in su a wa th lt th be to th sa po ex si fe .
ra th le de th ar me in to sm sh ( a pr - er th ca ea be bu by ha ) , ou go is to le de th ar al in to ot ty of tr - ma , su as ro an ce di .
ou so - ti is to pr - wi ( be le ) wh lt ou ar po to , an to le th un lt le th co .
th ma id , in by ( 12 ) , is to mi a sp cr on th po un .
as a re , lt th ar po to en up ex si fe .
se au ha pr me to le po fe in th co of co mo of th ma - ma pr vi co .
th id re on im - in sp cr on sm gr of lt ou - pu ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) , wh ca be re to th gr la me fo re ( 12 ) .
wh th lt th ar po to ar or in a re ar ( 12 or 12 ) , th lt fo to ma in wh ne lt ex - tr si fe ( 12 , 12 ) , wi pa si to wh is fo in th vi co .
to th be of ou kn , th pr wo is th rs ti a tr to - or fe ma is us fo ex lo in im de fo im re .
th fo se de th tr pr , an co th de th ob - ta wi a nu of st de su as si .
th ex co re ac on ca - te 12 , mn an ti im da us va re ar fe wi va de .
it is we es th sp co al ap - pl to na im le ba fu th ar lo - ca or ed an re th re el of si ce in ar v1 of th ma vi co - te ( 12 ) .
th me pr fe re th ar sp , bu no in .
if th in pa is sl di , th re ma ch dr .
mo - ov , th fe re in ab lo te - tu , an he , ar ra in wh us to pr - pr wh im be th do no ex th re - du in ad im pa .
fi , mo sp co al ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) ha fo li ap - pl in vi du to th hi co co of th it op re to co th fe
in th pa , we in an al , na in - va pr sp de ( ip ) , th : ( 12 ) le fe th ar in to sm va in in th da , an ( 12 ) pr mo ef re be th ca be co an di co us a fe - fo fu , wi re th us of an
it op pr .
le an ov ( ci : 12 ) co di of ba
sp co al re an in si x rm us a li co of ba fu th ar co of th di ma d rm , us co - ef z rn , wi n > m .
si th li sy is un - de , a sp co is ad th pr mo of th co to be ze fo an gi in .
ma sp co al ha be pr in th li - at an in th wo we fo on th fo co
l = mi
12 + xi
th pa fo ha be ex st - ie ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) , an it ha al be ex to th ca wh th di d is le , th ad to th st of th in .
th ba id is to mi th sa ob of eq .
12 al ov co z fo a gi di d , an th ov d fo a gi se of z .
no th ea co of d is re to be un 12 no ( or bo no ) in or to av tr so th ar du to th am of th li re ( fo in , th ob ca be de by re di an mu z an d by a co fa ) .
mo in re
al th sp co al ou ab ca le re th ar sp , th ar no in : a sm ch in th in si x ma re in a la ch in th co z ( 12 ) .
we no de ho th sp te in eq .
12 ca be mo to cr co th ar in to pe in th in si .
th ov id ( 12 ) is to ar th zs in a 12 ma ( or so ot to ) an th po th sq co - ci of z ac ov wi .
th , th sq of th th lt ou wi ea su - wi ar su , an it sq ro is co .
mo fo , le th ma of z co k ov ne pi .
wi ea ne i , we su th sq co zj ( we by a xe ga we fu ce in th ne ) an th ta th sq ro .
th j , wh wj ar th ga we .
th ov sp pe is th su i= vi .
fi 12 ( a ) il - lu th sc .
th , th ov ob fu is
gi th ac vi = qp of ea ne ac : pk
wj z 12
j p i
fi 12
( a ) : th st of th bl - sp te wh en - co th ba fu in d to fo a to ma .
se te fo de .
( b ) : ov ar of th lo fu , as de in eq .
in th ge mo , we se a fe ve - to z th si ap th in x vi a di of ba fu d an al mi a sp te .
si pe - fo th in at ru - ti is sl , we tr a pr fu f ( x; w ) ( da li ) th di pr th op z fr th in x .
at ru - ti we us on th pr fu to qu co z fr x , fr wh th in fe vi
th mo sp te ha a nu of su ef on th na of z th ar no im ob :
th sq ro in th su ov i en sp ac ac ne si a fe la ac - ti wi ha lo ov co th ma sm
wi ea ne i , th co zj ar en - co to be si to on an du to th z 12 ( wh pr ma sm co to a fe la on ) .
th ha th ef of en si ba fu in d to be sp cl in th 12 ma .
as th ne ov , th ba fu wi sm va ac th ma , so th th co - ci zj in an gi ne i wi be si .
if th si of th po re is re to a si z el , th th sp te is eq to th of eq
th mo sp te me th by mi th lo fu li in eq .
12 wi re to bo th co - ef z an th di d , th sy le a se of ba fu in d th ar la ou in a to ma on th 12 gr .
si th ne ba fu in th to ma ar si , th co zj wi be si fo a gi in - pu x .
th al me th if th in is pe sl th th po re wi a gi ne wi be mi af , si a de in th re of on lt wi be of by an in re in a ne on .
he , we ca ob a lo ro re
by ta th po ac vi as fe , ra th z as is tr do .
si in re en si pa wi th sa re , th ca be ma mo co - pa .
pu an wa , th me th th di of v ca be ma lo th th di of z wi - ou lo of us in .
th ha th tr be of re le co to ex th fe fr an im , re le me to st th , an re le co to ex th .
th 12 ma ov z us ci bo co to en th th po wr sm ar at th ed of th ma .
co pr
th mo pr ab is ge , th at te - ti fo ea in re x , we wi ha to pe in - en by mi th en fu li of eq .
12 wi re to z .
ho , th wi be im sl fo re - ti ap wh we wi to ex th of de pe im .
we th pr to tr a no - li re th di ma in pa x in sp re z , fr wh th in fe vi ca ea be co .
at te - ti we on ne to pr x to th re fu wh op in fe - fo fa to pr z .
no it op is
f ( x; w ) = f ( x; g , m , b ) = g ta ( m x + b )
wh m rm is a lt ma , b rm is a ve of bi , ta is th hy ta no - li , an g rm is a di ma of ga co al - in th ou of f to co fo th sc of th in an th li ra of th hy ta no - li .
fo co , w is us to co de th pa of th pr , w = ( g , m , b ) .
du tr , th go is to ma th pr of th re , f ( x; w ) as cl as po to th op se of co : z = ar mi li in eq .
th op - mi ca be ca ou se af th pr in eq .
( 12 ) ha be so .
ho , tr be mu fa by jo op th w an th se of ba fu - ti d al to .
th is ac by ad an te to th lo fu in eq .
( 12 ) , wh fo th re - re z to be as cl as po to th fe - fo pr f ( x; w ) :
li = kx dz
j + kz f ( x; w ) k1
th ov st of th lo fu is de in
th go of le is to nd th op va of th ba - si fu d , as we as th va of th pa in th re w , th mi li in eq .
le pr - ce by an on - li bl co gr de al - ri , al th fo tw st fo ea tr
ke th pa w an d co , mi li of eq .
( 12 ) wi re to z , st fr th in va pr by th re f ( x; w ) .
us th op va of th co z pr by th pr st , up th pa w an d by on st of st gr de .
th up is : u u li u , wh u co de ( w , d ) an is th st si .
th co of d ar th re - sc to un no .
we se = 12 fo al ex .
we fo th tr th se of ba fu d rs , th su tr th re , yi si pe in te of re - ti ac .
ho , wh th re is tr af - wa , th ap re is us le sp an th ov tr ti is co lo .
on th pa ar le , co th in re v ca be pe by a si fe - fo pr th th re f ( x; w ) , an th pr -
ag z in v th vi = qp
no th no re of x us th se of ba fu d is ne an lo .
an ex of th fe fo re ar is gi in fi
th ad of th fe - fo mo fo pr z , an he , v is cr to sp up th ru - ti pe - fo , si no op ne to be ru af tr - in .
ex re in a te re on th no - in ve of pr sp de ( 12 ) sh th th z pr by th ap re - ti gi a sl su re ac to th z pr by op of li .
fi , ot fa of re fu we te ( us di ki of th no - li ) , bu th on ch he ac si pe wh ha th ad of be ve si .
in fa th l - te m le by th pr fu cl ma th ba fu d us fo re du tr , ha th sa to la .
fi 12
to ma of fe de le fr na - ur im pa of si 12 pi by op li a in eq .
th ar 12 lt th ar or in 12 ne - ho .
ad ne ov by 12 pi bo ho - ta an ve .
no th sm va wi a gi ne an al th ci bo co .
fi 12
an of le lt by tt ga fu , ea do co to a fe .
le : ce lo of tt ga .
ri : po ma sh th jo di of or - ti ( az ) an fr ( ra ) of ga t .
in th fo se , be ex th pr of th in fe ob , we rs st th to - gr ma pr by ou tr sc .
fi , we ma an em ev of th in ac by th re un tr an ro of th in im .
se , we as th di po of th in re on re ta in th di do : ( i ) ge ob ca us th ca 12 da ( ii ) ge ob ca fr a da of ve lo re im an ( ii ) cl
fi 12
ex fr th ti im .
we us gr im in ou ex .
of ha di us th mn da .
in th ex - pe we co ip s le re wi th si de ( 12 ) th is co a st - of - th - ar de in co vi .
fi , we ex th co co of co ip fe on an im -
le th to ma
12 sh a ty to ma le by th pr me fr na im pa .
ea ti sh a lt in d co to a pa zi .
in th ex sh , th in im ar pa of si 12 pi , an th ar 12 ba fu , an he , 12 un zi ar in a 12 la .
th ne ov wh th sq ac of zi ar po ar 12 wi , an th ov by 12 in bo th ve an th ho di .
th pr of th lt ar an - ly by tt ga fu an ar sh in fi
by va th wa in wh th ne ar po , we ca ch th pr of th ma .
la ne ma th lt in ea po in si .
a la ov be wi ma th lt va mo sm ac di po .
a la sp va ma th fe de le le lo pa - te th lo li th pr by k - me cl be th in ha to be re us a sm nu - be of ba fu .
on th ot ha , a sm sp va ma th fe de lo li no - lo ra lt be an ra ov ba se ca pr go re ( ef , th rs te in th lo of eq .
12 do ) .
th ma in fi .
12 ha be pr wi an in - at sp le of = 12
th ch pa se in - du th le al to pr a sm ma wi mo lo ed de in di po , or - en , an sc .
th fe de ar ni or - ga in su a wa th ne un en si pa .
a un vi , th co to th su of th sq of un zj in a po is in be th un re si fe , an sm di ap to th in , wh sl ch th zj wi a po , ar li to le th co vi un .
wh th sp le , th si of th po wi an th ov sh be se by cr - va , in pr - ti we fo th th ex va do no si
ro 12 de
ro 12 de
si no ro .
ou al .
no in .
ou al
fi 12
me sq er ( ms ) be th re of a pa an it tr ve .
on th le pa , th tr - fo pa is ho sh .
on th ri pa , th tr - fo pa is rs ro by 12 de an th ho sh .
th cu ar an av ov 12 pa ra pi fr na im .
si th pa ar 12 pi in si , a sh of 12 pi ge a tr pa th is qu un to th or pa .
he , th ms ha be no so th th ms at 12 pi is th sa fo al me .
th al us to di co di fe ex - tr al : no - or in si , si , ip tr to pr no - in re ( i . e .
po ha si 12 ) ( 12 ) , an ip tr to pr in re - ti .
al al pr a fe ve wi 12 di - si .
ip pr re th ar mo in to tr th th ot ap .
af th ki of fe le .
in ot wo , th al - go is qu ro to th ch of th pa , pr be of th ma co en du
an in to tr
in th ex we st th in pr of th le re un si tr .
we ha ge a da of 12 na im pa un di tr an ro .
ea pa is pr - se to th pr fu th pr a 12 di - si de ( ch to be th sa si as si ) co - po of vs .
a re ca be co lo in - va if it do no ch si un sm tr - fo of th in .
in , th is wh we ob in fi .
we co th me sq di be - tw th de of th re pa an th de - to of th tr ve , av ov ma di im pa .
th gu co pr de ag si wi a va ho sh fo 12 an 12 de in ro .
ve si re ar fo fo ve sh an ot ro an .
on th le pa , we ca se th th me sq er ( ms ) be th re of th or pa an it tr in li as we in th ho - iz sh .
th ms of ip re is ge
fi 12
di of th re sy , wh is co of an in fe ex th ha be tr un - vi , fo by a su li sv cl .
th fe - tu ex pr th in im th a se of lt ba , wh th lt ar or in a tw di to ma .
th ma de po of si fe de wh ac - ti ar rs no - li tr by a hy ta no - li , an th , mu by a ga .
in re - ti ar fo by ta th sq ro of th su of th sq of th un th be to th sa po .
th ou of th fe - tu ex is a se of fe ma th ca be fe as in to th cl .
th lt ba an th se of ga is le by th al .
re is ve fa , be it co of a di fo pr th th sy .
lo th th ms pr by fe th ar co us si , a no - ro in ve of si , an a no - in re pr by th pr me ( th wa tr wi po of si 12 ) ( 12 ) .
a si - il be is fo wh th pa is no on sh , bu al ro .
wh th sh is sm , si ha lo ms , bu as so as th tr be la en th th in pa fa in a di in su - wi , th ms in co .
in le re - ta us ip se to be qu ro to sh , wi an ov lo ar un th cu .
no al th tr sp co al ar pr to pr un re - re un sm di of th in .
be ea in ha to be en wi a sm nu of ba fu , an be th ba fu ar hi tu in or an lo , a sm ch in th in ca pr dr ch in th re .
th pr is pa al by ou ap in pr th us a sm pr fu .
ho , th ex - me sh th th re is fa un un sm di , wh co to th in re - ta pr by ip an si .
ge ob re
we no us ip in fe fo ob cl - ca on th ca 12 da ( 12 ) of 12 ge ob ca in ba cl .
we us 12 tr im pe cl an up to 12 te im pe cl .
th im ar ra pi , an pr - pr in th fo -
lo wa : co to gr - sc an do - sa in su a wa th th lo si is 12 pi an th lo - ca no an ze pa to 12 pi .
th lo no ta a 12 ne ar ea pi , su th lo me , th di th by th lo st de if it is gr th th st de of th im .
th la st is a fo of di no - iz , pr to mo th co no in th
we ha tr ip on 12 , 12 12 pa ra - do ex fr th pr - pr im .
th to - gr ma us ha si 12 , wi th po ne - bo be 12 an an ov of 12 co be - tw ne .
he , th ar a to of 12 un th ar us in 12 po to pr a 12 - di re th ca be co to si .
af tr ip in an un wa , we us th pr fu to in th re of on wh im by : ( i ) ru - ni th pr fu on 12 pa sp by 12 pi to pr 12 ma of fe of si 12 ( ii ) th fe ma ar lo no ( ne of 12 ) an lo - pa lt wi a bo lt ( 12 ) to av al ( ii ) th ma ar th pr al th le 12 pr co ( eq to th nu of tr - in sa ) , an ( iv ) a su li sv is tr to re th ob in ea co im .
th ov sc is sh in fi
ta 12 re th re re fo th ex - me .
wi a li cl si to ( 12 ) , ip fe ou si an th mo pr by se an po - gi ( 12 ) .
ho , if ro in is re fr si it pe be co to ip .
we ha al ex wi th mo so sp py ma ( sp ) ke sv cl of la et al .
in th ex , we ag us th sa ip ar on 12 pa sp by 12 pi to pr 12 di fe ma , fo by lo no ov a 12 ne , yi 12 di fe ov a un 12 gr .
us sp , ip fe ac 12 av ac pe cl .
by de th st st to 12 pi , th pr 12 fe ma , ip fe - tu ac 12 ac as sh in ta 12
th is co to la 12 ac on ca - 12 ( wi ba cl ) ( 12 ) .
fo co , ou re - im of la si fe ex , st by 12 pi to pr 12 ma , yi 12 av re ra .
wi 12 in fe , ea de ta ar 12 to co fr a 12 pa .
no th th ev - ti ti of ea re is a li fu of th nu
ac / cl ( % )
pe on ti im da
lo no + bo + pc + li sv si ( 12 ) ( no ro .
in . ) si ( 12 ) ( ro .
in . ) se et al .
fe ( 12 )
lo no + sp py ma ke sv
ta 12
re ac on ca 12 da us a va - ri of di fe re an tw di cl - er .
th pc + li sv cl is si to ( 12 ) , wh th sp py ma ke sv cl is th of ( 12 ) .
ip is us to ex fe wi th di sa st si ov an in im to pr 12 , 12 an 12 fe ma , wh ea fe is 12 di to be co - ra to si .
lo no is no ap on si fe wh us wi sp py ma ke sv .
nu of in un
fi 12
th gu sh th re ac on ca 12 da as a fu of th nu of in un .
no th th pe im be 12 an 12 un is be 12 , su th fo ce ap th mo co - pa de mi be pr .
of fe , th th ti ca be fu re if th nu - be of fe is re .
12 sh ho th re pe va as th nu of fe is de .
ti im cl
ip wa co to si on an re ta us th ti im da ( 12 ) .
th da wa ch as it ex lo - re pr a di se to th ca 12 im .
fo si , we se 12 an - ma no ( ab ca , an sh , ap ir ( a ty of bu ) , bi ( a ty of ma ) , ma be ) an ma la 12 ex of ea .
12 im of ea cl we us fo tr , wi th re 12 he ou fo te .
al im ar co to gr .
bo ip wi 12 po un an si we us to ex fe ov 12 re , sp ev 12 pi ov th 12 im .
th re 12 by 12 by 12 di fe ma ar us wi a li sv .
ip fe ac 12 an si fe ac a co 12 .
si ( 12 ) ( no ro
pe on mn da
si ( 12 ) ( no ro
er ra ( % )
ta 12
re of re er ra on ti im an mn da .
in bo se , a 12 di fe ve is ob us ei ip or si ov a re sp 12 gr an af a li sv is us fo cl .
fo co pu it is wo me th a ga sv tr on mn im wi an pr ac 12 er ra .
ha re
we us a ve si ar to th us in th ex - pe ab to tr on th ha di of th mn da ( 12 ) .
th is a da of qu - bi ha - wr di wi 12 , 12 im in th tr se , an 12 , 12 im in th te se .
th al wa tr us - in 12 wi ex fr th or 12 pi im .
fo re , 12 - di fe ve we ex at 12 lo re sp ov a 12 gr .
a li sv tr on th fe yi an er - ro ra of 12 .
wh 12 si fe ve ar us in of ip fe , th er ra in to 12 .
th de th , wh si se we su to na im , ip pr fe th ca ad to th ta at ha .
in a si ex , a si 12 - di fe ve wa ex us ip an si , an fe to a li sv .
th er ra wa 12 fo ip , an 12 fo si .
su an fu wo
we pr an ar an a le al th ca le lo - in fe de .
th ar - ch us a ba of no - li lt wh ou ar or in a to fa , fo by a po - in la th im a sp cr on bl of l - te ou lo wi sm re of th to ma .
as a re of le , lt th ar po to ex si fe , wh re in sp in - an of th po ou to sm di of th in .
du tr , th ou of th no - li lt ba is fe to a li de th re th in pa .
th lt an th li de ar si tr to mi th re er , to wi a sp cr co as th su of th po un .
af tr , th li de is di , an th po un ou ar us as th in fe de of th in pa .
co th de fo a pa is ve
fa an si : it me in mu th pa by a lt ma , ap a sc ta fu to th re - su , an co th sq ro of ga - we su - of - sq of lt ou wi ea po wi .
im cl ex sh th th de - to th ob gi co pe to si de on ta fo wh si wa sp de - si ( su as ca 12 ) , an be pe on ta fo wh si is no pa we su ( mn , an ti im ) .
wh ot mo ha le lo in de - sc by ex bu sh in us sp - ti po , ou pr is mo ge : it ca le lo in to ot tr th ju tr .
ou re al sh sp lo in to ro - ti .
to ou kn , th is th rs ti su in fe de ha be le an te in an im re co wi co re ra .
a lo - te go of th wo is to pr a ge to fo le fe de in an un ma .
fu wo wi in st mu st of su fe ex so as to le mu - le hi of in gl an in fe .
we th ka gr , y - la bo , ee si - ce , an me of th ci pr ne co - ti an ad pe fo he di .
th wo wa su in pa by on gr n1 - 12 - 12 - 12 , ns gr ef - 12 , an ns ii - 12
