abs lab con in lab eac pix in an ima wit the cat of the obj it bel to .
we pro a met tha use a mul con net tra fro raw pix to ext den fea vec tha enc reg of mul siz cen on eac pix .
the met all the nee for eng fea , and pro a pow rep tha cap tex , sha and con inf .
we rep res usi mul pos - pro met to pro the nal lab .
amo tho , we pro a tec to aut ret , fro a poo of seg com , an opt set of com tha bes exp the sce the com are arb , e . g .
the can be tak fro a seg tre , or fro any fam of ove - seg .
the sys yie rec acc on the sif flo dat ( 123 cla ) and the bar dat ( 123 cla ) and nea - rec acc on sta bac dat ( 123 cla ) , whi bei an ord of mag fas tha com app , pro a 123 123 ima lab in les tha a sec , inc fea ext .
ind ter net , dee lea , ima seg , ima cla , sce par .
i mag und is a tas of pri imp -
tan for a wid ran of pra app .
one imp ste tow und an ima is to per a ful - sce lab als kno as a sce par , whi con in lab eve pix in the ima wit the cat of the obj it bel to .
aft a per sce par , eve reg and eve obj is del and tag .
one cha of sce par is tha it com the tra pro of det , seg , and mul - lab rec in a sin
the are two que of pri imp in the con of sce par : how to pro goo int rep of the vis inf , and how to use con inf to ens the sel - con of
thi pap pre a sce par sys tha rel on dee lea met to app bot que .
the mai ide is to use a con net ( 123 ) ope on a lar inp win to pro lab hy - pot for eac pix loc .
the con net is fed wit raw ima pix ( aft ban - pas lte and con nor ) , and tra in sup mod fro ful - lab ima to pro a cat for eac pix loc .
con net are com of mul sta eac of whi con a lte ban mod , a non - lin , and a spa poo mod .
wit end - to - end tra , con net can aut lea hie fea rep .
unf , lab eac pix by loo at a sma reg aro it is dif .
the cat of a pix may dep on rel sho - ran inf ( e . g .
cle far , cam cou , and yan lec are wit the cou ins of mat sci , new yor uni ( new yor , ny
cle far and lau naj are wit the lab din gas - mon , uni par - est , equ a12 , esi par ( 123 noi - le - gra , fra ) .
the pre of a hum fac gen ind the pre of a hum bod nea ) , but may als dep on lon - ran inf .
for exa , ide a gre pix as bel to a roa , a sid , a gra car , a con bui , or a clo sky req a wid con - tex win tha sho eno of the sur to mak an inf dec .
to add thi pro , we pro to use a mul - sca con net , whi can tak int acc lar inp win , whi kee the num of fre par to a min .
com app to sce par rst pro seg hyp usi gra - bas met .
can seg are the enc usi eng fea .
fin , a con ran eld ( or som oth typ of gra mod ) , is tra to pro lab for eac can seg , and to ens tha the lab are glo con .
a str cha of the sys pro her is tha the use of a lar con win to lab pix red the req for sop pos - pro met tha ens the con of the
arc is dep on fig 123
two mai com :
123 ) mul - sca , con
mul - sca , den fea ext pro a ser of fea vec for reg of mul siz cen aro eve pix in the ima , cov a lar con .
the mul - sca con net con mul cop of a sin net ( all sha the sam wei ) tha are app to dif sca of a lap pyr ver of the inp ima .
for eac pix , the net col enc the inf pre in a lar con win aro the giv pix ( 123 123 pix in the sys des her ) .
the con net is fed wit raw pix and tra end to end , the all the nee for han - eng fea .
whe pro tra , the fea pro a rep tha cap tex , sha and con inf .
whi usi
a mul rep see nat for fsl , has rar bee use in the con of fea lea sys .
the mul rep tha is lea is suf com to all the det and rec of all the obj and reg in the sce .
how , it doe not acc pin the bou of the reg , and req som pos - pro to yie cle del pre .
123 ) gra - bas cla : an ove - seg is con fro the ima , and is use to gro the fea des .
sev ove - seg are con , and thr tec are pro to pro the nal ima lab .
sup : the ima is seg int dis com , wid ove - seg the sce .
in thi sce , a pix cla is tra on the con - lut fea vec , and a sim vot is don for eac com , to ass a sin cla per com .
thi met is sim and eff , but imp a xed lev of seg , whi can be sub .
con ran eld ove sup : a con ran eld is den ove a set of sup - pix .
com to the pre , sim met , thi pos - pro mod joi pro at the lev of the sce , and is use to avo loc abe ( e . g .
a per in the sky ) .
tha kin of app is wid use in the com vis com , and we sho tha our lea mul fea rep ess mak the use of a glo ran eld muc les use : mos sce - lev rel see to be alr cap by it .
mul cut wit cla pur cri : a fam of seg is con ove the ima to ana the sce at mul lev .
in the sim cas , thi fam mig be a seg tre in the mos gen cas it can be any set of seg , for exa a col of sup eit pro usi the sam alg wit dif par tun or pro by dif alg .
eac is rep by the set of fea vec tha fal int it : the com is enc by a spa gri of agg fea vec .
the agg fea vec of eac gri cel com by a com - wis max poo of the fea vec cen on all the pix tha fal int the gri cel .
thi pro a sca - inv rep of the seg and its sur .
a cla is the app to the agg fea gri of eac nod .
thi cla is tra to est the his of all obj cat pre in the com .
a sub of the com is the sel suc tha the cov the ent ima .
the com are sel so as to min the ave imp of the cla dis in a pro tha we nam opt cov .
the cla imp is den as the ent of the cla dis .
the cho of the cov thu att to nd a con ove seg in whi eac seg con pix bel to onl one of the lea cat .
thi sim met all us to con ful fam of seg com , rat tha a uni , pre seg ( e . g .
a sin set of sup ) .
all the ste in the pro hav a com lin ( or alm lin ) in the num of pix .
the bul of the com res in the con net fea ext .
the res sys is ver fas , pro a ful par of a 123 123 ima in les tha a sec on a con cpu , and in les tha 123 usi ded har , ope the doo to rea - tim app .
onc tra , the sys is par fre , and req no adj of thr or oth kno .
an ear ver of thi wor was rst pub in ( 123 ) .
thi jou ver rep mor com ex - per , com and hig res .
123 rel wor the sce par pro has bee app wit a wid var of met in rec yea .
man met rel on mrf , crf , or oth typ of gra mod to ens the con of the lab and to acc for con ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
mos met rel on a pre - seg int sup or oth seg can , and ext fea and cat fro ind seg and fro var com of nei seg .
the gra mod inf pul out the mos con set of seg whi cov the ima .
( 123 ) pro a met to agg seg in a gre fas usi a tra sco fun .
the ori of the app is tha the fea vec of the com of two seg is com fro the fea vec of the ind seg thr a tra fun .
lik us , the use dee lea met to tra the fea ext .
but unl us , the fea ext ope on han - eng fea -
one of the mai que in sce par is how to tak a wid con int acc to mak a loc dec .
( 123 ) pro to use the his of lab ext fro a coa sca as inp to the lab tha loo at ner sca .
our app is som sim : our fea ext is app den to an ima pyr .
the coa fea map the gen - era are ups to mat tha of the nes sca .
hen wit thr sca , eac fea vec has mul eld whi enc mul reg of inc siz and dec res , cen on the sam pix
lik us , a num of aut hav use fam of seg or tre to gen can seg by agg ele seg .
the app of ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) rel on inf alg bas on gra cut to lab ima usi tre of seg .
oth str usi fam of seg app in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
non of the pre str for sce la - bel use a pur cri on the cla dis .
com to the opt cov str , thi pur cri is gen , efc and cou be app to sol dif pro .
con to the pre cit app usi eng fea , our sys ext fea den fro a mul pyr of ima usi a con - tio net ( con ) ( 123 ) .
the net can be fed wit raw pix and can aut lea low - lev and mid - lev fea , all the nee for
dia of the sce par sys .
the raw inp ima is tra thr a lap pyr .
eac sca is fed to a 123 - sta con net , whi pro a set of fea map .
the fea map of all sca are con , the coa - sca map bei ups to mat the siz of the nes - sca map .
eac fea vec thu rep a lar con win aro eac pix .
in par , a sin seg ( i . e .
sup ) , or a fam of seg ( e . g .
a seg tre ) are com to exp the nat con of the ima .
the nal lab is pro fro the fea vec and the seg ( s ) usi dif met , as pre in sec 123
han - eng fea .
one of the adv is the abi to com den fea efc ove lar ima .
the are bes kno for the app to det and rec ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , but the hav als bee use for ima seg , par for bio ima seg ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
the onl pre pub wor on usi con - vol net for sce par is tha of ( 123 ) .
whi som pre , the wor sho tha con net fed wit raw pix cou be tra to per sce par wit dec acc .
unl ( 123 ) how , our sys use a bou - bas hie of seg to ali the lab pro by the net to the bou in the ima and thu pro rep tha are ind of the siz of the seg thr fea poo .
sli aft ( 123 ) , sch and beh pro a sim arc of a mul con net for sce par ( 123 ) .
unl us , the use pai cla loc lte to pre the nal seg , ins of usi the ima gra tha we fou to be mor acc .
123 mul fea ext for
the mod pro in thi pap , dep on fig 123 , rel on two com ima rep .
in the rst rep , an ima pat is see as a poi in rp , and we see to nd a tra f : rp rq tha map eac pat int rq , a spa whe it can be cla lin .
thi rst rep typ suf fro two mai pro whe usi a cla - cal con net , whe the ima is div fol a gri pat : ( 123 ) the win con rar con an obj tha is pro cen and sca , and the off a poo obs bas to pre the cla of the und obj , ( 123 ) int a lar con inv inc the gri siz , and the the dim p of the inp giv a
nit amo of tra dat , it is the nec to enf som inv in the fun f its .
thi is usu ach by usi poo / sub lay , whi in tur deg the abi of the mod to pre loc and del obj .
in thi pap , f is imp by a mul con net , whi all int lar con ( as lar as the com sce ) int loc dec , yet sti rem man in ter of par / dim .
thi mul mod , in whi wei are sha acr sca , all the mod to cap lon - ran int - tio , wit the pen of ext par to tra .
thi mod is des in sec 123 .
in the sec rep , the ima is see as an edg - wei gra , on whi one or sev ove - seg can be con .
the com are spa acc , and nat del the und - ing obj , as thi rep con pix - lev pre .
sec 123 des mul str to com - bin bot rep .
in par , we des in sec 123 a met for ana a fam of seg - tio ( at mul lev ) .
it can be use as a sol to the rst pro exp abo : ass the cap of ass the qua of all the com in thi fam of seg , a sys can aut cho its com so as to pro the bes set of
123 sca - inv , sce - lev fea ext goo int rep are hie .
in vis , pix are ass int edg , edg int mot , mot int par , par int obj , and obj int sce .
thi sug tha rec arc for vis ( and for oth mod suc as aud and nat lan ) sho hav mul tra sta sta on top of eac oth , one for eac lev in the fea hie .
con net ( con ) pro a sim fra to lea suc hie of
con net ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) are tra arc - tec com of mul sta .
the inp and out of eac sta are set of arr cal fea map .
for exa , if the inp is a col ima , eac fea map wou be a 123 arr con a col cha of the inp ima ( for an aud inp eac fea map wou be a 123 arr , and for a vid or vol ima , it wou be a 123 arr ) .
at the out , eac fea map rep a par fea ext at all loc on the inp .
eac sta is com of thr lay : a lte ban lay , a non - lin lay , and a fea poo lay .
a typ con is com of one , two or thr suc 123 - lay sta , fol by a cla mod .
bec the are tra , arb - tra inp mod can be mod , bey nat
our fea ext is a thr - sta con net .
the rst two sta con a ban of lte pro mul fea map , a poi - wis non - lin map and a spa poo fol by sub - sam of eac fea map .
the las lay onl con - tai a ban of lte .
the lte ( con ker ) are sub to tra .
eac lte is app to the inp fea map thr a 123 con ope , whi det loc fea at all loc on the inp .
eac lte ban of a con net pro fea tha are equ und shi , inp is shi , the out is als shi but oth
whi con net hav bee use suc - ful for a num of ima lab pro , ima - lev tas suc as ful - sce und ( pix - wis lab , or any den fea est ) req the sys to mod com int at the sca of com ima , not sim wit a pat .
to vie a lar con win at ful res , a con - tio net wou hav to be unm lar .
the sol is to use a mul app .
our mul con net ove the lim - tat by ext the con of spa wei rep - cat to the sca spa .
giv an inp ima i , a mul pyr of ima xs , s ( 123 , .
, n ) is con , whe x12 has the siz of i .
the mul pyr can be a lap pyr , and is typ pre - pro , so tha loc nei hav zer mea and uni sta dev .
giv a cla con net fs wit par s , the mul - sca net is obt by ins one net per sca s , and sha all par acr sca : s = 123 , s ( 123 , .
, n ) .
we int the fol con : ban of im - age wil be see as thr dim arr in whi the rst dim is the num of ind fea map , or ima , the sec is the hei of the map and the thi is the wid .
the out sta of the l - th sta is den hl .
the map in the pyr are com usi a sca / nor fun gs as xs = gs ( i ) , for all s ( 123 , .
, n ) .
for eac sca s , the con net fs can be des as a seq of lin tra , int - spe wit non - lin sym squ uni ( typ - ica the tan fun ( 123 ) ) , and poo / sub ope .
for a net fs wit l lay , we hav :
fs ( xs; s ) = wlh ,
whe the vec of hid uni at lay l is
hl = poo ( tan ( wlh + bl ) )
l ( 123 , .
, l 123 ) , wit bl a vec of bia par , and h12 = xs .
the mat wl are toe mat , the eac hid uni vec hl can be exp as a reg con bet ker fro wl and the pre hid uni vec hl1 , squ thr a tan , and poo spa .
mor spe ,
hlp = poo ( tan ( blp + x
the lte wl and the bia bl con the tra par of our mod , and are col den s .
the fun tan is a poi - wis non - lin , whi is a fun tha con a nei of act , and pro one act per nei - hoo .
in all our exp , we use a max - poo ope , whi tak the max act wit the nei .
poo ove a sma nei pro bui - in inv to sma tra .
fin , the out of the n net are ups and con so as to pro f , a map of fea vec of siz n tim the siz of f12 , whi can be see as loc pat des and sce - lev des
f = ( f12 , u ( f12 ) , .
, u ( fn ) ) ,
whe u is an ups fun .
as men abo , wei are sha bet net - wor fs .
int , imp com wei sha acr sca is a nat way of for the net to lea sca inv fea , and at the sam tim red the cha of ove - tti .
the mor sca use to joi tra the mod fs ( s ) the bet the rep - tat bec for all sca .
bec ima con is , in pri , sca inv , usi the sam fun to ext fea at eac sca is jus .
123 lea dis sca - inv fea as des in sec 123 , fea vec in f are obt by con the out of mul net - wor fs , eac tak as inp a dif ima in a
ide a lin cla sho pro the cor cat for all pix loc i , fro the fea vec fi .
we tra the par s to ach thi goa , usi the mul cro ent los fun .
let ci be the nor pre vec fro the lin cla for pix i .
we com nor pre pro dis ove cla ci , a usi the sof - max fun , i . e .
whe w is a tem wei mat onl use to lea the fea .
the cro ent bet the pre cla dis c and the tar cla dis c pen the dev and is mea by
wit di the gro dis at loc i , and s ( k ) the sur of com k .
mat w12 and w12 are the tra par of the cla .
usi a two - lay neu net , as opp to the sim lin cla use in sec 123 , all the sys to cap non - lin rel bet the fea at dif sca .
in thi cas , the nal lab for eac com k is giv by
fir lab str fro the fea : usi sup as des in sec 123 .
lk = arg max
lca = x
the tru tar pro ci , a of cla a to be pre at loc i can eit be a dis of cla at loc i , in a giv nei or a har tar vec : ci , a = 123 if pix i is lab a , and 123 oth .
for tra max dis fea , we use har tar vec in thi rst sta .
onc the par s are tra , the cla in eq 123 is dis , and the fea vec fi are use usi dif str , as des in sec 123
123 sce lab str the sim str for lab the sce is to use the lin cla des in sec 123 , and ass eac pix wit the arg of the pre at its loc .
mor spe , for eac pix i
li = arg max
the res lab l , alt fai acc , is not sat vis , as it lac spa con , and pre del of obj .
in thi sec , we exp thr str to pro spa mor app
pre the cla of eac pix ind fro its nei yie noi pre .
a sim cle can be obt by for loc reg of sam col int to be ass a sin lab .
as in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , we com sup , fol the met pro by ( 123 ) , to pro an ove - seg of the ima .
we the cla eac loc of the ima den , and agg the pre in eac sup , by com the ave cla dis - but wit the sup .
for thi met , the pix dis dk at sup k are pre fro the fea vec fi usi a two - lay neu net :
yi = w12 tan ( w12 + b12 ) ,
lca = x
the pip is dep in fig 123
123 con ran fie
the loc ass obt usi sup doe not inv a glo und of the sce .
in thi sec , we imp a cla crf mod , con - str on the sup .
thi is a qui sta ap - pro for ima lab .
our mul - sca con net alr has the cap of mod glo rel wit a sce , but mig sti be pro to err , and can ben fro a crf , to imp con and coh bet lab , at tes tim .
a com str for lab a sce con in ass the ima to a gra and den an ene fun who opt sol cor to the de - sir seg ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
for thi pur , we den a gra g = ( v , e ) wit ver v v and edg e e v v .
eac pix in the ima is ass to a ver , and edg are add bet eve nei nod .
an edg , e , spa two ver , vi and vj , is den by eij .
the con ran fie ( crf ) ene fun is typ com of a una ter enf the var l to tak val clo to the pre d and a pai ter enf reg or loc con of l .
the crf ene to min is giv by
e ( l ) = x
( di , li ) + x
we con as una ter
( di , a , li ) = exp ( di , a ) 123 ( li 123 a ) ,
whe di , a cor to the pro of cla a to be pre at a pix i com as in sec 123 , and 123 ( ) is an ind fun tha equ one if the inp is tru , and zer oth .
the pai ter con in
( li , lj ) = exp ( kik ) 123 ( li 123 lj )
whe kik is the 123 nor of the gra of the ima i at a pix i .
det on the par use are giv in the exp sec .
the crf ene ( 123 )
is min usi alp - exp ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
an ill of the pro app in fig 123
sec lab str fro the fea : usi a crf , des in sec 123 .
123 par - fre mul par
one pro sub wit the two met pre abo : the obs lev pro .
an obj , or obj par , can be eas cla onc it is seg at the rig lev .
the two met abo are bas on an arb seg of the ima , whi typ dec it int seg tha are too sma , or , mor rar , too lar .
in thi sec , we pro a met to ana a fam of seg and aut dis the bes obs lev for eac pix in the ima .
one spe cas of suc fam is the seg tre , in whi com are hie org .
our met is not res to suc tre , and can be use for arb set of nei .
in sec 123 . 123 we for the sea for the mos ada nei of a pix as an opt pro .
the con of the cos fun tha is min is the des in sec 123 . 123
123 . 123 opt pur cov we den the nei of a pix as a con tha con thi pix .
let ck , k ( 123 , .
, k ) be the set of all pos con com - nen of the lat den on ima i , and let sk be a cos ass to eac of the com .
for eac pix i , we wis to nd the ind k ( i ) of the com tha bes exp thi pix , tha is , the com wit the min cos sk ( i ) :
k ( i ) = arg k | ick
not tha com ck ( i ) are non - dis set tha for a cov of the lat .
not als tha the ove cos s = pi sk ( i ) is min .
in pra , the set of com ck is too lar , and onl a sub of it can be con .
a cla tec to red the set of com is to con - sid a hie of seg ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , tha can be rep as a tre t .
thi was pre exp in ( 123 ) .
sol eq 123 on t con in the fol pro : for eac pix ( lea ) i , the opt com ck ( i ) is the one alo the pat bet the lea and the roo wit min cos sk ( i ) .
the opt cov is the uni of all the com .
for efc pur , it can be don sim by exp the tre in a dep - rst sea man , and ndi the com wit min wei alo eac bra .
the com of the opt cov pro is the lin in the
thi lab str fro the fea : usi a fam of of seg , as des in sec 123 .
on thi gur , the fam of seg is a seg - tat tre .
the seg ass wit eac nod in the tre is enc by a spa gri of fea vec poo in the seg reg .
a cla is the app to all the agg fea gri to pro a his of cat , the ent of whi mea the imp - rit of the seg .
eac pix is the lab by the min - imp nod abo it , whi is the seg tha bes exp the pix .
( c12 , c12 , c12 , c12 )
c12 c12 c12 c12
fin the opt cov on a tre .
the num nex to the com cor to the ent sco si .
for eac pix ( lea ) i , the opt com ck ( i ) is the one alo the pat bet the lea and the roo wit min cos sk ( i ) .
the opt cov is the uni of all the com .
in thi exa , the opt cov ( c12 , c12 , c12 , c12 ) wil res in a seg in dis set ( c12 , c12 , c12 , c12 ) , wit the sub dif tha com c12 wil be lab wit the cla of c12 , as c12 is the bes obs lev for c12
the gen to a fam of seg is str ( see tex ) .
num of com in the tre .
fig 123 ill
ano tec to red the set of com con is to com a set of seg usi dif mer thr .
in sec 123 , we use suc an app , by com mul lev of the fel - szw alg ( 123 ) .
the fel alg is not str mon , so the str obt can be cas int a tre : rat , it has a gen gra for , in whi eac pix bel to as man sup as lev exp .
sol eq 123 in thi cas con in the fol pro : for eac pix i , the opt com ck ( i ) is the one amo all the seg wit min cos sk ( i ) .
thu the com to pro a cov on the fam of com is lin on the num of pix , but wit a con tha is pro to the num of lev exp .
123 . 123 pro the con cos giv a set of com ck , we exp how to pro all the con cos sk .
the cos rep the cla pur of the ass com .
giv the gro seg , we can com the cos as bei the ent of the dis of cla pre in the com .
at tes tim , whe no gro is ava , we nee to den a fun tha can pre thi cos by sim loo at the com .
we now des a way of ach thi , as ill in fig 123
giv the sca - inv fea f , we den a com rep to des obj as an ela spa arr of suc fea .
in oth ter , an obj , or cat in gen , can be bes des as a spa arr of fea , or par .
we den a sim att fun a use to mas the fea vec map wit eac com ck , pro a set of k mas fea vec pat ( f t ck ) , k ( 123 , .
the fun a is cal an att fun - tio bec it sup the bac aro the com bei ana .
the pat ( f t ck ) are res to pro xed - siz rep .
in our mod the sam is don usi an ela max - poo
the sha - inv att fun a .
for eac com ck in the fam of seg t , cor ima seg is enc by a spa gri of fea vec tha fal int thi seg .
the agg fea vec of eac gri cel is com by a com - wis max poo of the fea vec cen on all the pix tha fal int the gri cel thi pro a sca - inv rep of the seg and its sur .
the res , ok , is a des tha enc spa rel bet the und obj par .
the gri siz was set to 123 for all our exp .
fun , whi rem inp pat of arb siz int a xed g g gri .
thi gri can be see as a hig inv rep tha enc spa rel bet an obj att / par .
thi rep is den ok .
som nic pro of thi enc are : ( 123 ) elo , or in gen ill - sha obj , are nic han , ( 123 ) the dom fea are use to rep the obj , com wit bac sub , the fea poo rep sol bas fun to rec - niz the und obj .
onc we hav the set of obj des ok , we den a fun c : ok ( 123 , 123 ) nc ( whe nc is the num of cla ) as pre the dis of cla pre in com ck .
we ass a cos sk to thi dis .
in thi pap , c is imp as a sim 123 - lay neu net , and sk is the ent of the pre dis .
mor for , let ok be the fea vec ass wit com ck , dk the pre cla dis , and sk the cos ass to thi dis .
we hav
yk = w12 tan ( w12 + b12 ) ,
sk = x
wit dk the gro dis for com k .
mat w12 and w12 are not c , and rep the tra par of c .
the par nee to be lea ove the com set of seg fam , com on the ent tra set ava .
the tra pro is des in sec 123 . 123
for eac com ck cho by the opt pur
cov ( sec 123 . 123 ) the lab is pro by :
lk = arg max
dk , a ck cut .
123 . 123 tra pro let f be the set of all fea map in the tra set , and t the set of all fam of seg
con the seg col ( t ) t t on the ent tra set , and , for all t t tra the cla c to pre the dis of cla in com ck t , as wel as the cos sk .
giv the tra par s , we bui f and t , i . e .
we com all vec map f and seg col t on all the tra dat ava , so as to pro a new tra set of des ok .
thi tim , the par c of the cla c are tra to min the kl - div bet the tru ( kno ) dis of lab dk in eac com , and the pre fro the cla dk ( eq 123 ) :
ldi = x
in thi set , the gro dis dk are not har tar vec , but nor his of the lab pre in com ck .
onc the par c are tra , dk acc pre the dis of lab , and eq 123 is use to ass a pur cos to the
we rep our sem sce und res on thr dif dat : sta bac on whi rel sta - of - the - art met rep cla - tio err , and two mor cha dat wit a lar num of cla : sif flo and bar .
the sta bac dat ( 123 ) con 123 im - age of out sce com of 123 cla , cho fro oth exi pub dat so tha all the ima are out sce , hav app 123 123 pix , whe eac ima con at lea one for ob - jec .
we use the eva pro int in ( 123 ) , 123 - fol cro val : 123 ima use for tra , and 123 for tes .
the sif flo dat ( 123 ) is com of 123 , 123 ima , tha hav bee tho lab by lab use , and spl in 123 , 123 tra ima and 123 tes ima .
the aut use syn cor to obt 123 sem lab .
the bar dat , as des in ( 123 ) , is der fro the lab sub use in ( 123 ) .
it has 123 , 123 tra and 123 tes ima .
the tes set con of str sce fro bar , whi the tra set ran in sce typ but has no str sce fro bar .
syn wer man con by ( 123 ) to pro 123 uni lab .
to eva the rep fro our mul con net , we rep res fro sev exp on the sta bac dat : ( 123 ) a sys bas on a pla con net alo ( 123 ) the mul con net pre in sec - tio 123 , wit raw pix pre ( 123 ) sup - bas pre , as pre in sec 123 ( 123 ) crf - bas pre , as pre in sec 123 ( 123 ) cov - bas pre , as pre in sec 123 .
res are rep in tab 123 , and com wit rel wor .
our mod ach ver goo res in com wit pre app .
met of ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ach sim or bet per on thi par - ula dat but to the pri of sev min to par
gou et al .
123 ( 123 ) mun et al .
123 ( 123 ) tig et al .
123 ( 123 ) soc et al .
123 ( 123 ) kum et al .
123 ( 123 )
lem et al .
123 ( 123 )
mul net + sup mul net + gpb + cov mul net + crf on gpb
123 to 123
123 to 123
per of our sys on the sta bac dat ( 123 ) : per - pix / ave per - cla acc .
the thi col rep com tim , as rep by the aut .
our alg wer com usi a 123 - cor
liu et al .
123 ( 123 ) tig et al .
123 ( 123 ) raw mul net
mul net + sup
mul net + cov mul net + cov
per of our sys on the sif flo dat
( 123 ) : per - pix / ave per - cla acc .
our mul net is tra usi two sam
met : 123 fre , 123 fre .
we com the res of our mul net wit
the raw ( pix ) cla , fel
sup ( 123 ) ( one lev ) , and our opt cov
app to a sta of 123 lev of fel
sup .
not : the thr for the sin lev was pic to yie the bes res the cov aut
nds the bes com of sup .
we the dem tha our sys sca nic whe aug the num of cla on two oth dat , in tab 123 and 123
res on the dat wer obt usi our cov - bas met , fro sec - tio 123 .
exa par on the sif flo dat are sho on fig 123
for the sif flo and bar dat , we ex - per wit two sam met whe lea the mul fea : res nat fre of cla , and bal the so tha an equ amo of eac cla is sho to the net .
bal cla oc - cur is ess to mod the con lik of eac cla ( i . e .
ign the pri dis ) .
bot res are rep in tab 123
tra wit bal fre all bet dis of sma obj , and alt it dec the ove pix acc , it is mor cor fro a rec poi of vie .
fre bal is use on the sta bac dat , as it con giv bet res .
for the bar dat , bot sam met are use as wel , but fre bal wor rat poo in tha cas .
thi can be exp by the fac tha thi dat has a lar amo of cla wit ver few tra exa .
the cla are the ext
exa of res on the sta bac dat .
( b ) , ( d ) and ( f ) sho res wit dif lab str , ove wit sup ( cf sec 123 ) , seg res of a thr in the gpb hie ( 123 ) , and seg rec by the max pur app wit an opt cov ( cf 123 ) .
the res ( c ) is obt wit a crf on the sup sho in ( d ) , as des in sec 123 .
har to mod , and ove occ muc fas tha for the sif flo dat .
res are sho on tab 123
res in tab 123 dem the imp com - put adv of con net ove com alg .
exp the par str of thi spe net , by com con in par , all us to par an ima of siz 123 123 in les tha one sec on a 123 - cor int i12 lap .
usi gpu or oth typ of ded har , our sce par mod can be run in rea - tim ( i . e .
at mor tha
123 mul fea ext
for all exp , we use a 123 - sta con net - wor .
the rst two lay of the net are com of a ban of lte of siz 123 fol by tan uni and 123 123 max - poo ope .
the las lay is a sim
lte ban .
the lte and poo dim wer cho by a gri sea .
the inp ima is tra int yuv spa , and a lap pyr is con fro it .
the y , u and v cha of eac sca in the pyr are the ind loc nor , suc tha eac loc 123 pat has zer - mea and uni var .
for the exp , the pyr con of 123 res ver of the inp ( n = 123 ) , in oct : 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123
the net is the app to eac 123 - dim inp map xs .
thi inp is tra int a 123 - dim fea map , usi a ban of 123 lte , 123 con to the y cha , the 123 oth con to the u and v cha .
the sec lay tra thi 123 - dim fea map int a 123 - dim fea map , eac map bei pro by a com of 123 ran sel fea map fro the pre lay .
fin the 123 - dim fea map is tra int
mor res usi our mul con net and a at crf on the sta bac dat .
tig et al .
123 ( 123 ) raw mul net
mul net + sup
mul net + cov mul net + cov
per of our sys on the bar
dat ( 123 ) : per - pix / ave per - cla acc
mul net is tra usi two sam
met : 123 fre , 123 fre .
we com the res of our mul net wit
the raw ( pix ) cla , fel
sup ( 123 ) ( one lev ) , and our opt cov
app to a sta of 123 lev of fel
sup .
not : the thr for the sin lev was pic to yie the bes res the cov aut
nds the bes com of sup .
a 123 - dim fea map , eac map bei pro by a com of 123 ran sel fea map fro the pre lay .
the out of eac of the 123 net are the ups - ple and con , so as to pro a 123 123 = 123 - dim fea vec map f .
giv the lte siz , the net has a eld of vie of 123 123 , at eac sca , whi mea tha a fea vec in f is inu by a 123 nei at ful res , a 123 nei - bor at hal res , and a 123 nei at qua res .
the nei are sho in
the net is tra on all 123 sca in par , usi sto gra des wit no sec - ord inf - mat , and min - bat of siz 123
sim gri - sea was per to nd the bes lea rat ( 123 ) and reg par ( l12 coe : 123 ) , usi a hol of 123 of the tra dat for val .
the hol is als use to sel the bes net , i . e .
the net tha gen the mos on the hol .
con , tha is , max gen per - man , is typ att aft bet 123 to 123 mil - lio pat hav bee see dur sto gra
des .
thi typ rep bet two to ve day of tra .
no spe har ( gpu ) was use
the con net has rou 123 mil tra par .
to ens tha fea do not ove som irr bia pre in the dat , jit hor ipp of all ima , rot bet 123 and 123 deg , and res bet 123 and 123 was use to art exp the siz of the tra dat .
the add dis are app dur tra , bef loa a new tra poi , and are sam fro uni dis .
jit was sho to be cru for low - lev fea lea in the wor of ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
for our bas , we tra a sin - sca net and a thr - sca net as raw sit pre , for eac loc i , usi the cla los lca den in eq 123 , wit the two - lay neu net den in eq 123
tab 123 sho the cle adv of the mul - sca rep , whi cap sce - lev dep , and can cla mor pix acc .
wit an exp seg mod , the vis asp of the pre - dic sti suf fro ina obj del .
123 par wit sup the res obt wit the str pre in sec 123 dem the qua of our mul fea , by rea a ver hig cla acc on all thr dat .
thi sim str is als a rea t for rea tim app , tak onl an add 123 sec to lab a 123 123 ima on int i12 cpu .
an exa of res is giv in fig 123
the 123 neu net use for thi met ( eq 123 ) has 123 inp uni , 123 hid uni and as man out uni as cla in eac dat .
thi neu net is tra wit no reg .
123 mul par alt the sim str of the pre sec see app , the res can be fur imp usi the mul app of sec 123 .
the fam of seg use to nd the opt cov cou be a sim seg tre con
on the raw ima gra .
for the sta bac dat exp , we use a mor sop tre bas on a sem ima gra .
we use the gpb hie of arb et al .
, whi are com usi spe clu to pro sem con - sis con of obj .
the com req one min per ima .
for the sif flo and bar dat , we use a che tec , whi doe not rel on a tre : we ran the sup met pro by fel in ( 123 ) at 123 dif lev .
the fel alg is not str mon , so the str obt can be cas int a tre : rat , it has a gen gra for , in whi eac pix bel to 123 dif sup .
our opt cov alg can be rea app to arb str of thi typ .
the 123 lev wer cho suc tha the are lin dis and spa a lar ran .
cla , seg met nd a par of the seg rat tha a cov .
par the seg - men con in ndi an opt cut in a tre ( so tha eac ter nod in the pru tre cor to a seg ) .
we exp wit gra - cut to do so ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , but the res wer les acc tha wit our opt cov met ( sta bac dat
the 123 neu net c fro eq 123 has 123 123 123 = 123 inp uni ( usi a 123 123 gri of fea vec fro f ) , 123 hid uni and as man out uni as cla in eac dat .
thi rat lar neu net is tra wit l12 reg ( coe : 123 ) , to min ove .
res are bet tha the sup met , par , bet del is ach ( see fig
123 con ran eld we dem the sta - of - the - art qua of our fea - tur by emp a crf on the sup giv by thr the gpb hie , on the sta bac - gro dat .
a sim tes is per in lem et al .
( 123 ) , whe the aut als use a crf on the sam sup ( at the thr 123 in the gpb hie ) , but emp dif fea .
his of den sam - ple sif wor , col , loc , and con sha des .
the rep a rat of cor cla pix of 123 on the sta bac dat .
we rec tha thi acc is the bes one has ach at the pre day on thi dat wit a at crf .
in our crf ene , we per a gri sea to set the par of ( 123 ) ( = 123 , = 123 = 123 ) , and use a gre lev gra .
the acc of the res sys is 123 , as rep in tab 123
our fea are thu out the bes pub ava com - tio of han fea .
123 som com on the lea fea wit rec adv in uns ( dee ) lea , lea fea hav bec eas to ana and und .
in thi wor , the ent sta of fea is lea in a pur sup man , and yet we fou tha the fea obt are rat mea .
we bel tha the rea for thi is the typ of los fun we use , whi enf a lar inv : the sys
is for to pro an inv rep for all the loc of a giv obj .
thi typ of inv is ver sim to wha can be ach usi sem - sup tec suc as dr - lim ( 123 ) , whe the los enf pai of sim pat to yie a sam enc .
fig 123 sho an exa of the fea lea on the sif flo dat .
typ rst lay fea , lea on the sif flo dat .
( a ) to ( c ) sho the 123 lte lea at eac sca , whe no wei sha is use ( net at eac sca are ind ) .
( d ) sho the 123 lte obt whe sha wei acr all 123 sca .
all the lte are 123 123
we obs typ ori edg , and hig - fre lte .
fil at hig lay are mor dif
123 som com on rea - wor gen
now tha we hav com and dis sev str for sce par bas on our mul fea , we con tak our sys in the rea - wor , to eva its gen pro .
the wor of ( 123 ) , mea dat bia , rai the que of the gen of a rec sys lea on spe , pub ava dat .
we use our mul fea com wit cla - sic usi sup as des in sec 123 , tra on the sif dat ( 123 , 123 ima , mos of the tak in non - urb env , see tab 123 and fig 123 ) .
we col a 123 deg mov in our wor env , inc a str and a par .
int dif suc as lig con and ima dis : see fig 123
the mov was bui fro fou vid tha wer sti to for a 123 deg vid str of 123 123 ima , thu cre art not see dur tra .
we pro eac fra ind , wit usi any tem con or smo .
des all the con , and the rat sma siz of the tra dat , we obs rat con - ing gen of our mod on the pre uns sce .
the two vid seq are ava at htt : / / www . cle . far . net / .
two sna are inc in fig 123
our sce par sys con - sti at the bes of our kno the rst app ach rea tim per , one fra bei pro - ces in les tha a sec on a 123 - cor int i12
fea ext , whi rep aro 123 on the i12 can be red to 123 usi ded fpg har ( 123 ) ,
the mai les fro the exp pre in thi pap are as fol :
typ res ach on the sif flo dat .
usi a hig - cap fea - lea sys fed wit raw pix yie exc res , whe com - par wit sys tha use eng fea .
the acc is sim or bet tha com sys , eve whe the seg hyp gen and the pos - pro mod are ab - sen or ver sim .
fee the sys wit a wid con win is cri to the qua of the res .
the num in tab 123 sho a dra imp of the per - for of the mul - sca con net ove the sin sca ver .
whe a wid con is tak int acc to pro - duc eac pix lab , the rol of the pos - pro is gre red .
in fac , a sim maj vot of the cat wit a sup yie sta - of - the - art acc .
thi see to sug tha con - tua inf can be tak int acc by a fee - for tra sys wit a wid con win , per as wel as an inf mec tha pro lab con ove a gra mod , but wit a con low com
the use of hig sop pos - pro sch , whi see so cru to the suc of oth mod , doe not see to imp the re - sul sig ove sim sch .
thi see to sug tha the per is lim by the qua of the lab , or the qua of the seg - men hyp , rat tha by the qua of the con con sys or the inf
rel hea on a hig - acc fee - for pix lab sys , whi sim the pos - pro mod to its bar min cut dow the inf tim con .
the res sys - tem is dra fas tha tho tha rel hea - inf .
mor , the ily on gra mod
bul of the com tak pla in the con - tio net .
thi com is alg sim , eas par .
imp on mul - cor mac , gen - pur gpu , dig - ita sig pro , or spe arc imp on fpg is str .
thi is dem by the fpg imp ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) of the fea ext sch pre in thi pap tha run in 123 for an ima res of
123 con and fut wor thi pap dem tha a fee - for con - lut net , tra end - to - end in a sup man , and fed wit raw pix fro lar pat ove mul sca , can pro sta of the art per on sta sce par dat .
the mod doe not rel on eng fea , and use pur sup tra fro ful - lab ima to lea app low - lev and mid - lev fea .
per the mos sur res is tha eve in the abs of any pos - pro , by sim lab eac pix wit the hig - sco cat pro by the con net for tha loc , the sys yie nea sta - of - the - art pix - wis acc , and bet - ter per - cla acc tha all pre - pub re - sul .
fee the fea of the con net to var sop sch tha gen seg - tio hyp , and tha nd con seg and lab by tak loc con int acc imp the res sli , but not con .
whi the res on dat wit few cat are goo , the acc of the bes exi sce par sys - tem , inc our , is sti qui low whe the num of cat is lar .
the pro of sce par is far fro bei sol .
whi the sys pre her has a num of adv and sho , the fra of the sce par tas its is in nee of ren .
rea - tim sce par in nat con .
tra on sif dat .
we dis one lab per com in the nal pre .
fir of all , the pix - wis acc is a som ina mea of the vis and pra qua of the res .
spo rar obj is oft mor imp tha acc lab eve bou pix of the sky ( whi are oft in gre num ) .
the ave per - cla acc is a ste in the rig dir , but not the ult sol : one wou pre a sys tha cor spo eve obj or reg , whi giv an app bou to a sys tha pro acc bou for lar reg ( sky , roa , gra ) , but fai to spo sma obj .
a ree is nee on the bes way to mea the acc of sce lab
sce par dat als nee bet lab .
one cou ima usi sce par dat wit hi - era lab , so tha a win wit a bui wou be lab as bui and win .
usi thi kin of lab in con wit gra str on set of lab tha con is - par - of rel wou lik pro mor con int of the who sce .
the fra pre in thi pap tra the con net as a pix lab sys in iso fro the pos - pro mod tha ens the con - sis of the lab and its pro reg wit the ima reg .
thi req tha the con
net be tra wit ima tha are ful lab at the pix lev .
one wou hop tha joi ne - tun the con net and the pos - pro pro int .
gra can be bac - pro thr the pos - pro to the con - tio net .
thi is rem of the gra tra net mod , a kin of non - lin crf in whi an un - nor gra mod bas pos - pro mod was tra joi wit a con net for han rec ( 123 ) .
unf , pre - nar exp wit suc joi tra yie low tes - set acc due to ove .
a mor imp adv of joi tra wou all the use of wea - lab ima in whi onl a lis of obj pre in the ima wou be giv , per tag wit app pos .
thi wou be sim in spi to sen - lev dis tra - ing met use in spe rec and han
ano pos dir for imp inc the use of obj fun tha dir ope of the edg cos of nei gra in suc as way tha gra - cut seg and sim met pro the bes ans .
one suc obj fun is is tur max lea ( 123 ) , whi pus up the low edg cos alo the sho pat bet two poi in dif seg , and pus dow the hig edg cos alo a pat bet two poi in the sam seg .
our sys so far has bee tra usi pur sup lea app to a fai cla con - lut net arc .
how , a num of rec wor hav sho the adv of arc ele suc as rec non - lin and loc con nor ( 123 ) .
mor imp , sev wor hav sho the adv of usi uns pre - tra to pri the con net int a goo sta poi bef sup ren ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
the met imp the per in the low tra set siz reg , and wou pro imp the per of the pre sys .
cod and dat are ava onl at
we wou lik to tha mar sco for fru dis - cus and the 123 deg vid col .
we are als gra to vic lem who kin pro us wit his res on the sta dat for com -
thi wor was fun in par by dar con in - teg dee lea for lar sca mul - mod dat rep , onr mur pro - sta vis - bas con of hig - spe igh , onr gra lea - ing hie mod for inf int .
