in man mac lea app , one has acc , not onl to tra dat , but als to som hig - lev a pri kno abo the des be ( cid : 123 ) hav of the sys .
for exa , it is kno in adv tha the out of a cha rec sho be inv wit res to sma spa ( cid : 123 ) tia dis of the inp ima ( tra , rot , sca cha , we hav imp a sch tha all a net to lea the der ( cid : 123 ) tiv of its out wit res to dis ope of our cho .
thi not onl red the lea tim and the amo of tra dat , but als pro a pow lan for spe wha gen we wis the net to per .
in mac lea , one ver oft kno mor abo the fun to be lea tha jus the tra dat .
an int cas is whe cer dir der ( cid : 123 ) tiv of the des fun are kno at cer poi .
for exa , an ima
sim , vic , le cun , and den
fig 123 : top : sma rot of an ori dig ima of the dig " 123 " ( cen ) .
mid : rep of the eff of the rot in the inp vec spa spa ( ass the are onl 123 pix ) .
bot : ima obt by mov alo the tan to the tra cur for the sam ori dig ima ( mid ) .
rec sys mig nee to be inv wit res to sma dis of the inp ima suc as tra , rot , sca , etc . ; a spe rec sys n . igh nee to be inv to tim dis or pit shi .
wor , the der of the sys ' s out sho be equ to zer whe the inp is tra in cer way .
giv a lar amo of tra dat and unl tra tim , the sys cou lea the inv fro the dat alo , but thi is oft inf .
the lim on dat can be ove by tra the sys wit add dat obt by dis ( tra , rot , etc . ) the ori pat ( bai , 123 ) .
the top of fig .
123 sho art dat gen by rot a dig ima of the dig " 123 " ( wit the ori in the cen ) .
thi pro , cal the " dis mod " , has two dra .
fir , the use mus cho the mag of dis and how man ins sho be gen .
sec , and mor imp , the dis dat is hig cor wit the ori dat .
thi mak tra lea alg suc as bac pro ver ine .
the dis dat car onl a ver sma inc amo of inf , sin the dis pat are not ver dif fro the ori one .
it may not be pos to adj the lea sys so tha lea the inv pro at a rea rat whi lea the ori poi is non - div .
the key ide in thi pap is tha it is pos to dir lea the eff on the out of dis the inp , ind fro lea the und
tan pro - a for for spe sel inv in an ada net
fig 123 : lea a giv fun ( sol lin ) fro a lim set of exa ( xl to x12 ) .
the fit cur are sho in dot lin .
top : the onl con is tha the fit cur goe thr the exa .
bot : the fit cur not onl goe thr eac exa but als its der eva at the exa agr wit the der of the giv fun .
pat .
whe a pat p is tra ( e . g .
rot ) wit a tra s tha dep on one par a ( e . g .
the ang of the rot ) , the set of all the tra pat s ( p ) = ( sea , p ) va ) is a one dim cur in the vec spa of the inp ( see fig .
in cer cas , suc as rot of dig ima , thi cur mus be mad con usi smo tec , as wil be sho bel .
whe the set of tra is par by n par ai ( rot , tra , sca , etc . ) , s ( p ) is a man of at mos n dim .
the pat in s ( p ) tha are obt thr sma tra of p , i . e .
the par of s ( p ) tha is clo to p , can be app by a pla tan to the man s ( p ) at poi p .
sma tra of p can be obt by add to p a lin com of vec tha spa the tan pla ( tan vec ) .
the ima at the bot of fig .
123 wer obt by tha pro .
mor imp , the tan vec can be use to spe hig ord con on the fun to be lea , as exp bel .
to ill the met , con the pro of lea a sin - val fun f fro a lim set of exa .
123 ( lef ) rep a sim cas whe the des fun f ( sol lin ) is to be app by a fun g ( dot lin ) fro fou exa ( ( xi , f ( xi ) ) ) i=1 , 123 , 123 , 123
as exe in the pic , the fit fun g lar dis wit the des fun f bet the exa .
if the fun f and g are ass to be dif ( whi is gen the cas ) , the app g can be gre imp by req tha g ' s der eva at the poi ( xd are equ to the der of f at the sam poi ( fig .
123 rig ) .
thi res can be ext to mul inp .
in thi cas , we can imp the equ of the der of f and g in cer dir , not nec in all dir of the inp spa .
suc con fin imm use in tra lea pro .
it is oft the cas tha a pri kno is ava on how the des fun var wit
sim , vic , le cun , and den
rot by ex
fig 123 : how to com a tan vec for a giv tra ( in thi cas
res to som tra of the inp .
it is str to der the cor con on the dir der of the fit fun g in the dir of the tra ( pre nam tan vec ) .
typ exa can be fou in pat rec whe the des cla fun ( cid : 123 ) tio is kno to be inv wit res to som tra of the inp suc as tra , rot , sca , etc . , in oth wor , the dir der of the cla fun in the dir of the tra is zer .
the imp can be div int two par .
the fir par con in com ( cid : 123 ) put the tan vec .
thi par is ind fro the lea alg use sub .
the sec par con in mod the lea alg ( for ins bac ) to inc the inf abo the tan vec .
par i : let x be an inp pat and s be a tra ope act on the inp spa and dep on a par a .
if s is a rot ope for ins , the s ( a , x ) den the inp x rot by the ang a .
we wil req tha the tra ope s be dif wit res to a and x , and tha s ( o , x ) = x .
the tan vec is by def 123 ( a , x ) / 123 .
it can be app by a fin dif , as sho in fig .
in the fig , the inp spa is a 123 by 123 pix ima and the pat are ima of han dig .
the tra con are rot of the dig ima .
the tan vec is obt in two ste .
fir the ima is rot by an inf amo a .
thi is don by com the rot coo of eac pix and int the gra lev val at the new coo .
thi ope can be adv com wit som smo usi a con .
a con wit a gau pro an eff int sch in o ( nm ) mul - add , whe nan m are the ( gau ) ker and ima siz res .
the nex ste is to sub ( pix by pix ) the rot ima fro the ori ima and to div the res
tan pro - a for for spe sel inv in an ada net
by the sca 123 ( see fig .
if ie typ of tra are con , the wil be ie dif tan vec per pat .
for mos alg , the do not req any sto spa sin the can be gen as nee fro the ori pat at neg cos .
par it : tan pro is an ext of the bac alg , all it to lea dir der .
oth alg suc as rad bas fun can be ext in a sim fas .
to imp our ide , we wil mod the usu wei - upd rul : is rep wit ~ w = - 123 ) ow ( e + j . ter )
~ w = - 123 ) ow
whe 123 ) is the lea rat , e the usu obj fun , er an add obj ( cid : 123 ) tiv fun ( a reg ) tha mea the dis bet the act and des dir der in the dir of som sel tra , and j . t is a wei coe .
let x be an inp pat , y = g ( x ) be the inp - out fun of the net .
the reg er is of the for
whe er ( x ) is
: e e tra
her , ki ( x ) is the des dir der of g in the dir ind by tra si app to pat x .
the sec ter in the nor sym is the act dir der , whi can be rew as
= g ' ( x ) .
osi ( o , x )
whe g ' ( x ) is the jac of g for pat x , and osi ( o , x ) joo is the tan vec ass to tra si as des in par i .
mul the tan vec by the jac inv one for pro thr a " lin " ver of the net .
in the spe cas whe loc inv wit res to the si ' s is des , ki ( x ) is sim set to o .
com of tra : the the of lie gro ( gil , 123 ) ens tha com of loc ( sma ) tra si cor to lin com of the cor tan vec ( the loc tra si hav a str of lie alg ) .
con , if er ( x ) = 123 is ver , the net der in the dir of a lin com of the tan vec is equ to the sam lin com of the des der .
in oth wor if the net is suc tra to be loc inv wit res to , say , hor tra and ver tra , it wil be inv wit res to com we hav der and imp an eff alg , " tan pro " , for per ( cid : 123 ) for the wei upd ( eq .
it is ana to ord bac ,
sim , vic , le cun , and den
fig 123 : for pro var ( a , x , a , e ) , and bac pro var ( cid : 123 ) abl ( b , y , p , t / j ) in the reg net ( rom sym ) and the jac ( lin ( cid : 123 ) ear ) net ( gre sym )
but in add to pro neu act , it als pro the tan vec .
the equ can be eas der fro fig
a ~ = ~ wl x ' . - l
x ~ = u ( ad
tan for pro :
, _ ~ , ~ ' - 123 ai - l . . . j ww " i
e ! = u ' ( a ~ ) a ~
tan gra bac :
( 123 - ~ w ' +12 . l+1 i - l . . . j
b ' - ~ w12 123 i - l . . . j
123 ( e ( w , up ) + i ' er ( w , up , tp ) ) _ 123 - 123 , + ~ ' - l . i . '
- xi yi
tan pro - - a for for spe sel inv in an ada net
the tes set
tra set siz
fig 123 : gen per cur as a fun of the tra set siz for the tan pro and the bac alg
the reg par jj is tre imp , bec it det the tra bet min the usu obj fun and min the dir der err .
two exp ill the adv of tan pro .
the fir exp is a cla tas , usi a sma ( lin sep ) set of 123 bin han ( cid : 123 ) wri dig .
the tra set con of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 or 123 pat , and the tra set con the rem 123 pat .
the pat are smo usi a gau ker wit sta dev of one hal pix .
for eac of the tra set pat , the tan vec for hor and ver tra are com .
the net has two hid lay wit loc con sha wei , and one out lay wit 123 uni ( 123 con , 123 fre par ( cid : 123 ) ter ) ( le cun , 123 ) .
the gen per as a fun of the tra set siz for tra bac and tan pro are com in fig .
we hav con add exp in whi we imp not onl tra but als rot , exp and hyp def .
thi set of 123 gen ( cid : 123 ) ato is a bas for all lin tra of coo for two dim ima .
it is str to imp oth gen inc gra - iev ( cid : 123 ) shi , " smo " seg , loc con coo tra and ind ima seg tra .
the nex exp is des to sho tha in app whe dat is hig
sim , vic , le cun , and den
av " ge nms vi 123
nms vi .
o 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
- 123 . 123 + - - _+_ - _ - - +_ - _+_ - _ - _
fig 123 : com of the dis mod ( lef col ) and tan pro ( rig col ) .
the top row giv the lea cur ( err ver num of swe thr the tra set ) .
the bot row giv the fin inp - out fun of the net the das lin is the res for una bac pro .
tan pro - a for for spe sel inv in an ada net
cor , tan pro yie a lar spe adv .
sin the dis mod imp add lot of hig cor dat , the adv of tan pro ove the dis mod bec cle .
the tas is to app a fun tha has pla at thr loc .
we wan to enf loc inv nea eac of the tra poi ( fig .
123 , bot ) .
the net has one inp uni , 123 hid uni and one out uni .
two str are pos : eit gen a sma set of tra poi cov eac of the pla ( ope squ on fig .
123 bot ) , or gen one tra poi for eac pla ( clo squ ) , and enf loc inv aro the ( by set the des der to 123 ) .
the tra set of the for met is use as a mea the per for bot met .
all par wer adj for app opt per in all cas .
the lea cur for bot mod are sho in fig .
123 ( top ) .
eac swe thr the tra set for tan pro is a lit fas sin it req onl 123 for pro , whi it req 123 in the dis mod .
as can be see , sta per is ach aft 123 swe for the tan pro , ver 123 for the dis mod .
the ove spe is the tan pro in thi exa can tak adv of a ver lar reg ter .
the dis mod is at a dis bec the onl par tha eff ( cid : 123 ) tiv con the amo of reg is the mag of the dis , and thi can be inc to lar val bec the rig ans is onl inv und sma dis .
whe a pri inf abo inv exi , thi inf mus be mad ava to the ada sys .
the are sev way of doi thi , inc the dis mod and tan pro .
the lat may be muc mor eff in som app , and it per sep con of the emp and lea rat for the inv , rel to the ori tra dat poi .
tra a sys to hav zer der in som dir is a pow too to exp inv to tra of our cho .
tes of thi pro on lar - sca app ( han zip rec ) are in pro .
