in sp of th su pe , ne pr la mo ( np ) re - ma fa le wi us th n - gr mo - el du to th no lo tr ti , wh ar me in we ev fo mo - si da .
tr np is co ex be th ar ex no , wh le to ha - in to co al wo in th vo wh co th lo - li gr .
we pr a fa an si al fo tr np ba on no - co es , a ne in pr fo es un co di - bu .
we in th be of th al on th pe tr co an sh th it re th tr ti by mo th an or of ma wi af - fe th qu of th re mo .
th al is al mo ec an mu mo st th im sa be - ca it re fa fe no sa to
we de th sc of th pr - po ap by tr se ne la mo on a 12 - wo co wi a 12 - wo vo , ob st - of - th - ar re on th mi re se co ch da .
ap in pr of th 12 th in co - en on ma le , ed , sc , uk , 12
co 12 by th au ( s ) / ow ( s ) .
by as pr to se , la mo - el al di be pr an im - ab se , wh ma su mo an im - ta co of sp re , ma tr - la , an in re sy .
pr - ti la mo ar ty ba on th ma as , wh me th th mo th co - ti di of th ne wo in a se gi so xe nu of wo th im pr it .
th gr of wo co on is ca th co , de h , wh th wo be pr is ca th ta wo , de w .
n - gr mo , wh ar ee sm ta of no wo / co co - oc co , ha do la mo fo de du to th si an ex pe .
in th la fe ye ne la mo ha be - co co wi n - gr an no ro ou - pe th ( mi et al . , 12 ) .
np mo th di fo th ne wo as a sm fu of le mu - di re - va re - ti of th co wo an th ta wo .
si re ar le fo wo th ar us in si wa , en th th ne ou si - la pr va fo th .
wo re le by la mo ar al us fo na - ra la pr ap su as se ro la ( co & we , 12 ) , se an ( ma & ng , 12 ) , na en re ( tu et al . , 12 ) , an pa ( so et al . , 12 ) .
un , np ar ve sl to tr , wh ma th un fo la - sc ap .
th is a co of ha to co th en vo wh co th pr of a si wo or th co gr .
in fa , th ti co of th co sc as th pr
a fa an si al fo tr ne pr la mo
of th vo si an th wo fe di - si .
on wa to ac th co is to re th vo si fo th np by us it to pr on th mo fr wo an ha th re us an n - gr mo ( sc & ga ,
al , th vo ca be st in a tr wi wo at th le , al ex fa co of wo pr an th gr - di ( mo & be , 12 ) .
un , th pr pe of th re mo is he - il de on th tr us an nd a go tr is a di pr ( mn & hi , 12 ) .
pe a mo el ap is to ke th mo th sa an to ap th ex gr co us im sa ( be & se , 12 ) .
un , th va in th im - po sa es ca ma le un - bl , un it is ca co ( be & se ,
in th pa we pr an ec al fo tr np ba on no - co es - ti ( gu & hy , 12 ) , wh is mu mo st th im sa .
th it al us sa to ap th gr ne fo le , ne th nu of sa no th pr di re dy ad fo ac pe on pa wi ma li -
ne pr la mo
th us : ne la mo le th fe jo wi ot pa , wh ma en mo us xe ha - en fe an on le th we fo th fe .
a ne la mo re ea wo in th vo us a re - va fe ve an de th sc fu - ti in te of th fe ve of th co wo an th ne wo .
in so mo , di fe ve ta ar us fo th co an th ne wo vo ( be et al . , 12 ) , wh in ot - er th ta is sh ( be et al . , 12 mn &
th fe ve ac fo th va ma of pa - ra in ne la mo , wh me th th me re ar li in th vo - la si .
th co fa to th me re - qu of th n - gr mo , wh ar ty li in th tr se si .
lo - bi mo
th tr me we pr is di ap to al ne pr an ma - en la - gu mo .
fo si , we wi pe ou ex - pe us th lo - bi la ( lb ) mo ( mn & hi , 12 ) , wh is th si ne - ra la mo .
th lb mo pe li - ea pr in th se wo fe sp an do no ha no - li .
in sp of it si - it , th lb mo ha be sh to ou n - gr , th th mo co ne la mo ( mi et al . , 12 mn et al . , 12 ) ca
a st la mo is si a co of co di fo th ne wo , in by it co . 12 in a ne la mo th co - ti di co to co h , p h ( w ) , is de as
w ( ci : 12 ) ex ( s ( w ( ci : 12 ) , h ) )
wh s ( w , h ) is th sc fu wi pa wh qu th co of wo w wi co h .
th ne sc fu is so re to as th en fu ( be et al . , 12 ) .
de on th fo of s ( w , h ) , eq .
12 ca de - sc bo ne an ma en la mo ( be et al . , 12 ) .
th ma di be th tw mo cl li in th fe
12 al al st la mo pr th ne wo , it is al po to mo th di of th wo pr th co or su by th
in th pa we wi us a sl ex ve of th lb mo th us se fe ve ta fo th co wo an th ta wo .
th a co wo w wi be re wi fe ve rw , wh a ta wo w wi be re wi fe - tu ve qw .
gi a co h , th mo co th pr re fo th ta wo by li co th fe ve fo th co wo us po - de co we ma -
th sc fo th ma be th co an th ne wo is co by ta th do pr be - tw th pr re an th re - ta of th ca ta wo w : s ( w , h ) = q ( ci : 12 ) qw + bw .
a fa an si al fo tr ne pr la mo
he bw is th ba ra pa us to mo th po of w .
th pr of w in co h is th ob by pl th ab sc fu in eq
ma li le
ma li tr of ne la mo - el is tr bu ex be co th lo - li ta ti li in th vo si .
th co of a si co - te / wo ob to th gr of th lo - li is gi by
lo p h
s ( w , h ) ( ci : 12 )
s ( w , h ) ep h
( w ( ci : 12 ) ) is ex to ev th ex w . r . t .
p h be it re co s ( w , h ) fo al wo in th vo .
si vo ty co - ta te of th of wo , ma li le te to be ve sl .
im sa
be an se ( 12 ) ha pr a me fo sp up tr of ne la mo ba on ap th ex in eq .
12 us - in im sa .
th id is to ge k sa x1 , . . . , xk fr an ea - to - sa - fr di - bu qh ( w ) an es th gr wi
lo p h
s ( w , h ) 12
an v = ( ci : 12 ) k
wh v ( x ) = ex ( s ( x , h ) ) j= v ( xj ) .
th no by v is ne he be th im - po we v ar co us th un - iz mo di ex ( s ( x , h ) ) .
ty th pr di is an n - gr mo t to th tr se , po wi a co si di fr th ne mo .
th th ap is co si , it is no - tr to us in pr be th hi va of th im sa es ca ma le - in un .
th va te to gr as le - in pr , be th mo di mo aw fr th pr di . 12 on wa to
12 an se ( 12 ) ar th th ha be -
co th va is to ke in th nu of sa du tr so th th ee sa - pl si st ab so pr va ( be - gi & se , 12 ) .
al , th n - gr pr - po di ca be ad to tr th mo di th tr ( be & se , 12 ) .
th rs ap is si bu le e - ci be th in nu of sa ma le sl .
th se ap le to gr sp bu is co mo di to im - me an re ad me fo st th ad pr di .
no - co es
we pr us no - co es ( nc ) as a mo st al to im sa fo ec tr of ne la mo an ot mo de by eq .
nc ha re be in - tr by gu an hy ( 12 ) fo tr - in un pr mo .
th it ha be de fo es pr de , we ar in in ap it to di di an so wi as di di an us pr - ab ma fu in of de fu .
th ba id of nc is to re th pr of de es to th of bi cl , di - cr be sa fr th da di - ti an sa fr a kn no di .
in th la mo se , th da di d ( w ) wi be th di of wo th oc af - te a pa co h .
th it is po to us co - de no di , fo si we wi us a co - in ( un ) pn ( w ) .
we ar in in tt th co - de mo p h
( w ) to p h
fo gu an hy ( 12 ) , we as th no sa ar k ti mo fr th da sa , so th da co fr th mi k+ p h k+ pn ( w ) .
th th po pr th sa w ca fr th da di is
d ( w ) + k
p h ( d = 12 ) =
d ( w ) + kp ( w )
si we wo li to t p h pl of p h a fu of th mo pa :
d in eq .
12 , ma th po pr
d , we us p h
to p h
p h ( d = 12 , ) =
( w ) + kp ( w )
ca ne la mo an n - gr mo le ve di di .
a fa an si al fo tr ne pr la mo
th qu ca be to ex to co , ho - ev , be of th no re fo ev - ua p h ( w ) ( eq .
nc si th is by av ex no an tr no - iz co as pa .
th th mo is pa in te of an un di - ti p h1 12 an a le pa ch co to th lo of th no co :
( w ) = p h1
12 ( w ) ex ( ch ) .
he 12 ar th pa of th un di - tr an = ( 12 , ch ) .
to t th co - de mo to th da ( fo th mo ig th fa th it sh pa wi mo fo ot co ) , we si ma th ex of lo p h ( d| , ) un th mi of th da an no sa .
th le to th ob
( xi ) +k ( xi ) ar al be - no th th we tw 12 an 12 , wh ma nc - ba le ve st ( gu & hy , 12 ) .
in co , th we pr by im sa ca be ar -
si th di fo di co sh pa - ra , we ca le th di in - de of ea ot by op on j h ( ) at a ti .
in , we de a gl nc ob by co - in th pe - co nc ob us th em co pr p ( h ) as we :
p ( h ) j h ( ) .
no th th is th tr ap fo co - in th pe - co ml ob fo tr ne
de wi no co
ou in im of nc tr le a ( lo - ) no co ( c in eq .
12 ) fo ea co - te in th tr se , st th in a ha ta in by th co . 12 th th ap wo we fo sm da , it re es on pa - ra pe co , ma it di to sc to hu nu of ob co en by mo wi la co si .
su , we di th xi th no co to 12 , 12 in of le th , di no ae th pe of th re mo .
we be th is be th mo ha so ma fr pa th me th ap - ma pe - co no co en by th ob fu is ea .
lo p h
po sp
j h ( ) =e h
( w ) + kp ( w )
( w ) + kp ( w )
wi th gr
j h ( ) =e h
( w ) + kp ( w )
lo p h
( w ) + kp ( w )
lo p h
no th th gr ca al be ex as
j h ( ) =
( w ) + kp ( w ) d ( w ) p h
an th as k ,
j h ( ) ( ci : 12 )
d ( w ) p h
lo p h
wh is th ma li gr .
th as th ra of no sa to ob in , th nc gr ap th ma li
in pr , gi a wo w ob in co h , we co it co to th gr by ge k no sa x1 , . . . , xk an us th fo
j h , w ( ) =
( w ) + kp ( w )
( xi ) + kp ( xi )
lo p h
lo p h
we wi no co th gr co co fo nc an ml le .
su c is th co si , d is th wo fe ve di , an v is th vo si of th mo .
th co - pu th pr re us eq .
12 ta ab cd op fo bo nc an ml .
fo ml , co th di of th ne wo fr th pr re ta ab v d op .
fo nc , ev th pr of k no sa un th mo ta ab kd op .
si th gr co in ea mo ha th sa co - pl as co th pr , th sp fo
12 di no us th le no co wh co th va an te se pe .
ra we no th pr ex .
12 am to se th no pa c
a fa an si al fo tr ne pr la mo
ta 12
re fo th lb mo wi 12 fe ve - to an a 12 - wo co on th pe tr co .
nu of te tr
ta 12
th ee of th no di an th nu - be of no sa on th te se pe .
ea pa up du to us nc is ab
cd + v d cd + kd
cd + v cd + k
fo a mo wi a 12 - wo co , 12 fe ve - to , an a vo si of 12 , an nc up us 12 no sa sh be ab 12 ti fa th an ml up .
si th ti co of co th pr re is qu in th fe ve di - me , it ca do th co of th pa up , ma le sl ev fo a sm nu of no sa .
we ca av th by ma co we ma ci di , re th co of co th pr re to cd , an ma th sp fa c+ c+ .
fo th mo ab th wo am to a fa of 12
th us of di - ag co ma wa in by mn & hi ( 12 ) to sp up th hi lb - li
si th co of a pa up fo im - sa - ba le is th sa as fo nc wi th sa nu of no sa , th al th ne fe sa to pe we wi be fa .
pe tr re
we in th pr of th pr al - ri em on th pe tr co .
as is co pr , we tr on se 12 - 12 ( 12
wo ) an us se 12 - 12 ( 12 wo ) as th va - id se an se 12 - 12 ( 12 wo ) as th te se .
th st vo of 12 mo fr wo wa us wi th re wo re by a sp to .
we ch to us th da to ke th tr ti fo ex ma li le -
th le ra we ad at th en of ea ep ba on th ch in th va se pe - pl si th en of th pr ep .
th ra we ha wh th pe in an we le un ot .
pa we up ba on mi - ba of 12 co / wo pa ea .
ex wh st ot , nc tr ge 12 no sa fr th em un di pe co / wo ob .
no sa - pl we ge an fo ea up .
we di no us a we pe as th va - sc - ba le ra re ap to be su to av ov .
al mo us a tw - wo co an di 12 fe ve ta fo co an ta wo .
ou rs ex co ml le to nc le fo va nu of no sa .
th re - su te pe an tr ti ar sh in ta 12
it is cl th in th nu of no sa pr be - pe mo , wi 12 sa be su to ma th ml - in te of tr ti , nc wa 12 ti fa th ml .
th nu of no sa - pl di no ha a si ee on th ru ti be co th pr re wa co mo ex th co th pr of ( at mo ) 12 sa .
th ma re - so th sp fa wa le th 12 ( th va pr - di in se 12 ) is be nc to ab tw as ma ep as ml to co .
ou nc im - me is al le op th th ml im - me wh ta gr ad of th bl
to ex th ee of th no di on th pe of th al , we tr ge no sa fr th un as we as th un di .
fo ea no di we tr mo us 12 , 12 , 12 , an 12 no sa pe da - ap .
as sh in ta 12 , th un no di - tr le to mu be te se pe in al ca .
ho , th pe ga sh as th nu of no sa in , fr al 12 fo a si no sa do to un 12 fo 12 no sa .
in sp of po te se pe , a un no di di no le to le
a fa an si al fo tr ne pr la mo
in ev wh a si no sa wa us .
in ad to th ml an nc al , we al im th im sa tr al - ri fr ( be & se , 12 ) to us as a ba - li , bu fo it ve un .
it di in vi al of ou ex , ev wi ad sa si an th ta ee sa si se to hu .
th on ru th di no di in le a un mo us th ta un as th pr - po di , wh is th id si fo im - po sa .
th ca of fa in al ca wa th ap of ex la im we on th mo di be su di - en fr th un pr di , wh is a kn pr wi im sa .
si is - ba me se to re we ov a hu sa pe gr co ( be & se , 12 ) , ev wh an ad pr di is us , we ex is - ba tr to be co - ab sl th nc , wh , as we ha sh , ca ac ml - le pe wi on 12 no sa -
se co ch
to de th sc an ee of ou ap we us it to tr se la ne - ra la mo fo th mi re se - te co ch ( zw & bu , 12 ) .
th ch wa de as a be fo se - ti mo an co of sa - st se co - ti pr .
gi 12 , 12 se , ea of wh is mi a wo , th ta is to se th co wo ou of th ve ca pr fo ea se .
ca wo ha be ch fr re in - fr wo us a ma en mo to en th th re co se we no to im .
hu ju th pi th be fo ca fo ea se so th al co - ti we gr co bu th co an - sw wa un .
th hu ca ac ov 12 ac on th ta , st mo fa mu wo wi th be re of 12 pr by a wh - se ls mo , an n - gr mo ac on ab 12 ac ( zw & bu ,
ne la mo ar a na ch fo th ta be th ca ta ad of la co - te th tr n - gr mo , wh we ex
12 us a un pr di mi ap na , be an se ( 12 ) re th hi - or n - gr pr di wo mu wo th th un .
to be im fo se co .
we us a sl mo lb ar fo ou mo fo th ta .
in th in of sc , we us di - on co we ma wh re th ti co of gr co fr qu to li in th di of wo fe ve an al us to us mo fe di .
si th ta wa se co , we ma th mo - el aw of se bo by us a sp ou - of - se to fo wo in co po ou of th se co th wo be pr - di .
fo ex , th to wo be us as th co wo wh pr th rs wo in a se - te us a mo wi a si - wo co .
we sc a ca se wi a la mo by us it to co th pr of ea wo in th se an ta th pr of th pr - it as th se sc .
we th pi th ca wo th pr th hi - sc se as ou an .
no th th wa of us a mo wi a c - wo co ta in ac c wo on bo si of th ca wo be th pr of th c wo fo th ca wo de on it .
th mo we tr on th st tr se fo th ch co 12 wo fr pr gu .
af re th pr gu he an fo fr th le , we sp th in se an th to th se in wo .
we us th pu se to an th pe tr wo to fr nl ( bi et al . , 12 ) .
we th co al wo to lo an re th on th oc fe th 12 ti wi an un wo to , re in a vo - ul si of ju un 12 , 12
th se to be co we pr in th sa ma .
th re da wa th ra sp at th se - te le in a te an va se of 12 wo ( 12 se ) ea an a 12 - wo tr se .
we us th tr pr de in se 12 , wi th ex of us a sm we pe to av ov .
ea mo to be on an tw da to tr on a si co of a mo cp .
as a ba fo co , we al tr se n - gr mo ( wi mo kn - ne sm ) us th sr to ( st , 12 ) , ob re si to th re by zw & bu
si we se hy ba on th ( gu ) va se pe , we re th sc on th en co of 12 , 12 se , wh me th ou re ar di co to th of zw & bu ( 12 ) .
as ca be se fr ta -
a fa an si al fo tr ne pr la mo
ta 12
ac on th co ms se co - pl ch da .
n 12 in a bi co .
th ls re is fr ( zw & bu , 12 ) .
co la pe te
bl 12 , mo wo fe an la co le to be pe in lb mo in te of bo ac - cu an pe .
th lb mo pe co - si be on se co th n - gr mo , in sp of ha hi te pe .
ev th lb mo wi a tw - wo co pe be - te th an n - gr mo .
th lb mo wi a ve - wo co , ma th be pu re on th da .
no th th ls mo th pr - du th re co al wo in a se , wh an lb mo wi a c - wo co co on th 12 wo th su th ca wo .
th mo wi a 12 - wo co an 12 fe ve ou th ls mo by a la ma - gi an se a ne ac re fo th da at
la mo ty us th wo pr th wo of in as th co .
ho , si we ar in in ll in a wo in th mi of th se , it ma se to us bo th pr an th fo wo as th co fo th la - gu mo , ma th co bi .
we tr se lb mo wi bi co - te to se wh su mo ar su to th un - co co fo se co - pl .
sc a se wi a bi mo is bo si an fa : we si co th pr of th ca wo un th mo us - in th co su th wo .
th a mo is ap on on pe se , in of c+ ti re by th un mo .
as ta 12 sh , th lb mo wi bi
co ac mu lo te pe th th un co , wh is no su be - ca th al co on wo th fo th wo be pr .
wh is su , ho , is th bi co ap to be co - ab le ee fo se co th un - re co .
th th c - wo co mo an c 12 - wo co mo lo at th sa wo wh us th sc pr we de ab , th un mo se to ma be us of th av in .
we ha in a si an ec me fo tr st la mo ba on no - co es .
ou re sh th th le al is ve st an ca pr mo - el th pe as we as th on tr us ma - mu li in le th on - te of th ti .
in a la - sc te of th ap , we tr se ne - ra la mo on a co of pr gu - be te , ac st - of - th - ar pe on th mi re se co ch -
th we ha sh th th un no di - bu is su fo tr ne la mo ec , co - de no di ar wo in be th mi le to ev fa tr by re th nu of no sa -
re , pi et al .
( 12 ) in a fa of es me fo un mo th in - cl nc an im sa as sp ca .
ot me of th fa mi be of in fo tr la mo , th ou pr re - su su th no of th ou nc .
fi , we be th nc ca be ap to ma mo ot th ne or ma - en la - gu mo .
pr cl wi ma cl ar a pr ca .
we th vi ra an ll el fo th he - fu co .
we th th ga ch fo - da fo ge fu .
