we sh qu go fa cl is po fo a da of in an am la fa im .
ou da is 12 , 12 fa im , ob by ap a fa nd to ap ha a mi ca ne im - ag .
th da is mo re th us fa re - ni da , be it co fa ca in th wi in a va of co wi re to th ca - er , ta a va of ex , an un il - ti of wi va co .
ea fa im is as wi a se of na , au ex fr th as - so ca .
ma , bu no al su se co th
we cl fa im in ap di co - or .
we us a cl pr to br am - it in la an id in la fa .
a me pr th id va of na th re - fe to th sa in .
th re re ca be us to la fa in ne im or to or ne pi by in pr .
an al vi of ou pr is as a pr th cl up no su da .
we de ho to us en me to ev su pr .
it is st to ob en da of im , wi at an .
ex in : co of mu ma ( 12 ) ; th co co of im an vi wi so or cl ca im co fr th we wi th en we pa or ca
ex pa su da is a wi st - ie th in vi re .
im re ma us an fa ac be li wi wo , ev th th wo ar no li to th re in th da or ( 12 , 12 ) .
fo ex , mo ba ar te an re - la ma be le fr a da of mo im
wh on ne sp wh in th im th mo - cl li ( fo fa , se ( 12 , 12 ) ; fo an in st im an in vi , se ( 12 , 12 ) ; fo a ra of ob , se ( 12 ) ) .
in th pa , we sh th fa an na ca be li in an en da , de er an am in pr na de , in fa de an in co .
fa re is we st , an ca be su re in th sp av .
ea fa re is do in ( 12 , 12 ) an is re in ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
ou pr is sl di fr fa re , in th it is mo im to id di co wh ca be us to di be fa , ev fo in no re in th da th to cl th fa .
as a re , we fo on ad th kp / ld me - ol , ra th on bu a mu - cl cl .
ou cu wo is a ne pr to re wo fa re ma : bu la an re se of la da fo re .
we ca le pa wo by us it to de wh fe mi be us fo id si fa .
th ge ap in us un la da it to es di co
( se 12 ) .
we th us a ve of - me to al
am la fa to on of th la ( se 12 ) .
on th is do , we cl up th cl by re da it fa fr th me , an re - es di co - di ( se 12 ) .
fi , we me cl ba on fa si ( se 12 ) .
we sh qu an qu re in se 12
we ha co a da co of ap ha a mi ne pi an ca fr ya ne ov a pe of ro tw ye .
fa : us th fa de of ( 12 ) we ex 12 , 12 fa im ( si 12 or la wi su fa de - te sc an re to 12 pi ) .
si th pi we ta in th wi ra th un xe
na fr ha th lo ta th oc in na - ra la pr .
we ex th fa im ro fo th sa di .
we ha hu to th - sa of im of a fe in ( e . g .
pr bu ) , an a la nu of in wh ap on a fe ti or in on on pi .
on ex re ap to ha th pr .
fo ex , in ai se ca - er a fe pe , se gu , or ai st mi be se of , bu th ma of pe wo ap in - qu .
st ho re sy pe un su a di is im .
th sh vo of av da is ex .
we ha sh re th nu of fa im we de wi by us a fa de th is bi to fr fa an by re th fa be la an re pr .
ev so , we ha a da th is co to , or la th , th bi av la se an is mu ri in co .
co ke pc an li di fo a se th si re sp te ( se 12 ) .
be co im , we au re al fa to a ca po .
fi su ve ma ar tr as fe de ( co of th le an ri ey , co of th mo , an th ti of th no ) us 12 ha cl fa .
we us th ge bl of ( 12 ) ap to gr pa as th fe fo ou sv .
a ne fa is te by ru ea sv ov th im wi a we pr on lo fo ea fe .
we co an af tr de by th le sq so - ti be ma ou of ea sv an ca fe lo .
we th pe gr de to nd th af tr wh be ma de po to ca fe lo .
ea im is th re to a co po an as a sc ba on th su of it fe de re .
la re sc in be fe de - ti an th be re .
we lt ou da by re im wi po re sc an ar le wi 12 , 12 fa im .
ea fa is au cr to a re su th ey , no an mo to el ef of ba on re .
th rg pi va fr ea cr fa ar co in a ve an us fr he on .
di an we pe ke pr co an ( kp ) to re th di of ou da an li di - na an ( ld ) to pr da in a sp th is su fo th di ta .
ke pr co an : ke pc ( 12 ) us a ke fu to ef co a pr - pa co ba in a hi - di fe sp ,
fi 12 : to ro sh fa de re , bo ro sh im re by th fa re wi re sc sh ce ( la sc in be re - ti pe ) .
th fa re us an sv to de fe po on ea fa .
gr de is th us to nd th be af tr to ma fe po to ca lo .
la co , th re a br ra of in - vi , po , ex an il co .
in - di al ch ov ti , wh ha be sh to ha re in ( 12 ) .
ou fa re da is mo va th an ot to da .
na : we ex a le of pr na fr al th ca by id tw or mo ca wo fo by a pr te ve ( ( 12 ) ) .
wo ar cl as ve by rs ap a li of mo ru to pr te si fo , an th co th to a da of kn ve ( wo ( 12 ) ) .
th le is ma to ea ca .
ea fa de in an im is as wi ev na ex fr th as ca ( e . g .
ou jo is to la ea fa de re wi th co na ( if on ex ) .
sc : we ob 12 , 12 la an re fa de re .
we re fa im th ca be re sa , le 12 , 12
fi , we co on im as wi 12 or fe na , le 12 , 12
12 di pr pe gu re in th vi li ar in wi ex of de fa re sy ( e . g . , se ( 12 ) ) .
th su th la da la im ph .
ou da di fr ty fa re da in a nu of im wa .
po , ex an il va wi .
th fa de te no to de la vi of fa , bu ( gu 12 ) we of en th sa fa il wi ma di co li an in a br ra of ex - pr .
sp an mu ar co .
th ar wi , im of fa on po , di in re - lu an id pi .
qu of th ar mu - pl co of th sa pi ( th is du to th wa ne pi ar pr , ra th a co pr ) or mu pi of th sa in in si co - ra .
fi , so in ar tr ac ti .
pr ge w .
bu ma a st - me in th ro ga wh se of de do ru lo on , ju 12 , 12
ru sa th un st wo re gr ph of th de so of sa hu to pr th we ki by am tr .
ph by la do -
br di sa me an hi pa - ne ac ka wi ar at th lo pr of th ro to pe , se - be 12 , 12
th lm st to ha as a ch hi ma wh ha a se fa - il li an co - st pa ne an ju la .
re / da ch
in ca go .
gr da ( ne - we si ) le re ch - le bi si by 12 pe po al 12 pe of vo ar st un - ci , ac to a po re oc 12 , 12 by th pu po in of ca - if .
da is sh sp to re af hi de wi si in lo an , on oc .
( ji ru / re )
wo nu on ll he of au - tr hi a re to ni ma of ch at th ja op te ch in to oc 12 , 12
re / er
ge su cl sc ga bi to a ba bo by ca se ja 12 , 12 , he sp sa .
th ba is th rs ch fo bo sc - fe , 12 , an he hu , br lm pr - du ma va , wh wa at he si fo th bi .
sc is se on th ge - ma te sh be it . . . ? ! da . . . ? ! ) in br , on ja 12 , 12
( al wi / re ) us pr ge w .
bu ( l ) ma re - ma wh se of st co po - el ( r ) li be si th us le - sh ag hi / ai , tu an ma ac of 12 at th de of st in wa , dc .
th ve - ye pl is de to he pr an tr ai , es in mo th a do af an ca na ( af / lu fr )
fi 12 : gi an in im an an as ca ( im ab an ca to th ri of ea im ) , ou sy au de fa ( wh bo ) in th im an po na st ( bo ) .
we us a cl pr to bu mo of ap fo ea na an th au la ea of th de fa wi a na if on ex .
th au la ar sh in bo be th fa .
mu fa ma be de an mu na ma be ex , me we mu de wh is wh ( e . g . , th pi of cl sc ) .
re to th in sp by so no ma .
ke - ne pc ha be sh to pe be th pc at fa re ( 12 ) .
ke pc is pe as fo : co a ke ma , k , wh is th va of th ke fu co ( we us a ga ke ) .
ce th ke ma in fe sp ( by su of av ro , av co an ad on av el va ) .
co an ei - ti of k , an pr on th no ei of
li di an : ld ha be sh to wo we fo fa di ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) be it us cl in to nd a se of di th pu me of di cl aw fr ea ot .
12 ny ap ou da is to la to do kp di as th ke ma , k wi be of si nx , wh n is th th nu - be of im in th da , an in ap im co .
th , we in us an ap - pr to ca th ei of k .
in ch de ( ic ( 12 ) ) ca be us to ca - la an ap to k wi a bo on th ap - ti er , bu in ac al n im fo ea co - um co ( wh n is th nu of im in th
da ) .
th ny ap me ( cf ( 12 , 12 ) ) gi a si re , bu al th im to be ac in a si ba ra th on fo ea co co - pu ( th be mu fa to co fo la ma ) .
ny do no gi th sa er bo on it ap to k .
ho , be of th sm pr of ke ma we ex th nu of la ei of ou ma to be sm , wh th nu of la ei sh go do re to th am of sm .
in ou ma we ob th th ei do te to dr of qu .
be of th , a su of th co of ou ma , sh en mu of th da in th ma .
th im th th ny me ma pr a go ap to k .
th ny me co tw ex su of k , a an b , an us th to ap th re of k .
us th ap of k , th ei ca be ap -
fi th n
n ke ma , k , is pa as
, ! ' / ) 12 - . + an : ' / ) 12 - 12 .
he , a is a su of th im , ( in ou ca 12 ra -
z _ ud
ac om tr
ac da hu
fi 12 : th gu sh a re se of cl fr ou la th se , il a se of im pr of bo th da an th me .
no th th pi gr ex ou er ra in or to sh in ph an al th ty of er we en .
12 : so fa ar ve fr an ap in ma di ex an po , wi a ri ra of il ( e . g .
cl la st co po , or do ru ) .
th cl al de th ou cl ca co wi th ph .
12 : so fa ar ra , or ap in ei re co of on or tw pi or on sl di pi ( e . g .
cl la ab sa or ac je an ) .
12 : so fa ar no , in fa , ph ( al im ) .
12 : th as be pr na an fa is st so no , be it re di to te wh st ar na of pe ( un na , wh sh th se fa ph th co - oc fr wi th st ju de , wh is co as to fa bu no th na of a pe an pr da ar mo or jo pa , wh sh a na as wi th wr fa ) .
12 : so na ar ge am ( ja bo , wh sh tw di fa na as wi th na ( th rs is an ac wh pl ja bo , th se an ac wh wa a vi in a ja bo lm ) .
12 : so fa ap at bo lo an re re ( sa hu ) .
12 : ou cl me pr is ab to me cl de th sa fa bu la wi di st ( th cl in th li gr an da gr po , re ) .
12 : ou cl me pr is no pe an co be fr de sy kn of na ( er ru an er ro ru ) , bu in ca su as de se ru , do ru an de do ru th me pr ar co .
12 : ou cl is qu re in th pr of sp ( ha bl ) , pe wi ( jo bo ) an mu ( jo bo ) .
st co po
de do ru do ru
ta 12 : mu na ca of re to th sa pe .
we li na to pe ba on im .
if tw na ha th sa as fa , th th mu re to th sa pe .
th ab pa ar th to na me pr - po by ou sy .
me ar pr be tw na if th cl re to ea na co si
do se im ) co to th , b is th co of ea of th im of a , to th re of th im in ou da , an c is ap by th ny me .
ny gi an ap fo c .
th gi an ap to k ,
th we fo
, th ce ve of ou ap - , by ca ap av ro , av co su ( th ar eq si k is sy ) , an av el va .
we ca ap th av ro ( or co ) su as :
is di by :
we ce as us ,
we th so fo th or ap ei - ve as fo .
fi , we re a an b by th
ce ve .
le be th sq ro of a , an .
di s as
we pr as us fo kp , th de of by no th ei th no ei .
th gi a di re of ou im th ma th di ta
th we ha
we vi ou co as a se - su da wi er th we wi to cl up .
fi we fo di - in fr fa wi on on co ex na .
wh th is a fa sm se of fa an th la ar no pe , th le us fo an in di sp .
we pr al of ou im in th sp an pe a mo - ie k - me pr fo cl .
th gi a la an le no da fr wh to re di - na .
th ne di gi a be re of id an we us th to re - cl .
th gi a re - ab se of cl .
12 mo k - me cl ea im ha an as ve , gi by th kp an ld pr , an a se of ex na ( th wo ex us ou pr na de fr th
th cl pr wo as fo : 12
ra as ea im to on of it ex na 12
fo ea di na ( cl ) , ca th me of im ve - to as to th na .
re ea im to th cl me of it ex na .
re 12 - 12 un co ( i . e .
no im ch na du an it - 12 pr cl we us a ne ne mo to de ou da an th ou po th ha a lo pr un th mo .
we re cl wi fe th th im so th ne ne ha so me .
th le 12 , 12 im .
we th re po wi lo li fo a va of th ( ta 12 ) to ge er ra as lo as 12 , ( er ra ar ca by ha la pi fr ou da ) .
we de li as th ra of th pr th it ca fr it as cl ov th pr th it di no co fr it as cl :
wh fo a po x in cl
is th nu of po in cl
, k is th nu of ne - is th nu of th , n is th to nu of po in th .
we ar us - as th es pr of a cl
es ne we ar co ,
ne th ar in gi mo we to sm cl .
12 me cl we wo li to me cl wi di na th ac co to a si pe su as de do - al ru an do ru or ve pr hu ch an hu ch .
th ca be ex ha to do di fr te , in si su as co po
ta 12 : da si , nu of cl an er ra fo di th .
th nu of pe in ea se is ap th nu of cl an er ra is de - ne as : gi an in an a fa fr th as - at cl , th er ra is th pr of th fa be - in in .
we se th fo mi - le pr we ge qu sm er ra .
we ha tu a la se - su se of fa in a we su se an pr cl cl of ma pe .
an se of st ( th na do no sh an wo ) .
we pr to me na th co to fa th lo th sa .
ou sy au pr me be cl th ha si co i . e .
if th cl ha si fa in th th po de th sa pe .
we ca ju th si of cl by th di be th me in di co - na .
ta 12 sh th al al th to pr me co to co me ( tw na th re to th sa pe ) , ex th of ri my an pr 12
qu ev we vi th me as ta a su da th co - ta er an am in th su si an pr a da wi an im ( or , id , co ) su si , po om so da it .
we mu no de ho mu be th ne da is .
tw th ca ha ha : fi , th da ma be sm .
se , th su si sh be mo ac -
bu ho mu mo ac ? if we ar wi to as - su th al er ar eq , we ca se th is as a co pr .
in pa , on mu de ho ma bi ne to be su to ma th da co .
we co th sc on a pe - it ba , so th th si of th da do no af th sc .
th nu co is ne an es we ma no ha an op co sc bu if on us a re co co sc sh al us to ra me ag on 12 th co of co un da we ha a se of im - te pa , ea of wh co of an im of on of th in , an a li of be 12 an 12 ( ty ) te la .
fo ea da it , we mu no de wh th se of la co th co
or da se co gi im la co gi cl
lo ( nu of im )
fi 12 : th gu sh th ap co pe it of co ea da pl ag th si of th da .
no th th or da ( th cr ) is la an no if on cl , me an cl , th ig th cl st , th re da is , in fa , so no ( da li ) .
fi , if on lo at th cl st , to , th da is mu cl in pa - ti on is co in to a da by cl - te it co .
fi , in se of ou re - je th le to da th te to be sm an
re th ra va th ta on , we ca do th wi ) .
if th li la co th co na , we ca te wh it bi .
if it do no , we mu su th co bi ( th en of th la
na , wh wi co
is th co en of
th ha a co la in th li , an po of th wi it of co th or da
12 th co of co cl da ou cl pr in tw ty of st .
fi , it as ea im fr an im - te pa to on cl .
se , it as a te to ea cl , so im la ea im pa wi th cl .
if th la re in th wa is pe , no fu bi ne to be pr .
we co th ad co fo pe la by ex ho mu wo ( ho ma bi ) ar re to x al th er in an im cl an cl la .
we as th en of th la se re xe .
we sp th pr of xi up im cl in tw st .
in th rs st , we ch th na of ea cl , if ne , so th it co to th pe wh ap mo fr in th cl .
in th se st , we ch th la of ea im in a cl if it do no co to th ( no co ) la of th cl .
fo th pr of im wi
fo th pr - la th do no .
th to co pe in th fa is
fi th cl la : le be th pr of th pr of cl wi th co la an cl wi an in la .
le be th ra va - ab re wh a cl is la co or no an re ou pr of wr th en of a ra - th co pe cl of co th la fo al th cl is th
ob th co na , an th co is
fo th to nu of cl pe it ( we
fi in el wi th cl : we as - su fo si th , on th la ha be co as ab , th pr of co la el in a is in of th cl .
th me th th co pe it of xi in la el is in of th sp cl st .
th to ni xi th la we mu pa bi pe it to id - bi pe in it to
la of th da , af cl , as
ti th in it an ) .
we ha a to pe it co fo th co
