in spi of the sup per , neu pro lan mod ( npl ) re - mai far les wid use tha n - gra mod - els due to the not lon tra tim , whi are mea in wee eve for mod - siz dat .
tra npl is com exp bec the are exp nor , whi lea to hav - ing to con all wor in the voc whe com the log - lik gra .
we pro a fas and sim alg for tra npl bas on noi - con est , a new int pro for est unn con dis - but .
we inv the beh of the alg on the pen tre cor and sho tha it red the tra tim by mor tha an ord of mag wit af - fec the qua of the res mod .
the alg is als mor eci and muc mor sta tha imp sam be - cau it req far few noi sam to
we dem the sca of the pro - pos app by tra sev neu lan mod on a 123 - wor cor wit a 123 - wor voc , obt sta - of - the - art res on the mic res sen com cha dat .
app in pro of the 123 th int con - enc on mac lea , edi , sco , uk , 123
cop 123 by the aut ( s ) / own ( s ) .
by ass pro to sen , lan mod - els all dis bet pro and imp - abl sen , whi mak suc mod an imp - tan com of spe rec , mac tra - lat , and inf ret sys .
pro - tic lan mod are typ bas on the mar ass , whi mea tha the mod the con - tio dis of the nex wor in a sen giv som xed num of wor tha imm pre it .
the gro of wor con on is cal the con , den h , whi the wor bei pre is cal the tar wor , den w .
n - gra mod , whi are eec smo tab of nor wor / con co - occ cou , hav dom lan mod for dec due to the sim and exc per .
in the las few yea neu lan mod hav be - com com wit n - gra and now rou out - per the ( mik et al . , 123 ) .
npl mod the dis for the nex wor as a smo fun of lea mul - dim rea - val rep - tio of the con wor and the tar wor .
sim rep are lea for wor tha are use in sim way , ens tha the net out sim - lar pro val for the .
wor rep lea by lan mod are als use for nat - ral lan pro app suc as sem rol lab ( col & wes , 123 ) , sen ana ( maa & ng , 123 ) , nam ent rec ( tur et al . , 123 ) , and par ( soc et al . , 123 ) .
unf , npl are ver slo to tra , whi mak the una for lar - sca app .
thi is a con of hav to con the ent voc whe com the pro of a sin wor or the cor gra .
in fac , the tim com of thi com sca as the pro
a fas and sim alg for tra neu pro lan mod
of the voc siz and the wor fea dim - sio .
one way to acc thi com is to red the voc siz for the npl by usi it to pre onl the mos fre wor and han the res usi an n - gra mod ( sch & gau ,
alt , the voc can be str int a tre wit wor at the lea , all exp fas com of wor pro and the gra - die ( mor & ben , 123 ) .
unf , the pre per of the res mod is hea - ily dep on the tre use and ndi a goo tre is a dic pro ( mni & hin , 123 ) .
per a mor ele app is to kee the mod the sam and to app the exp gra com usi imp sam ( ben & sen , 123 ) .
unf , the var in the im - por sam est can mak lea uns - ble , unl it is car con ( ben & sen ,
in thi pap we pro an eci alg for tra npl bas on noi - con est - tio ( gut & hyv , 123 ) , whi is muc mor sta tha imp sam .
tho it als use sam to app the gra nee for lea , nei the num of sam nor the pro dis req dyn ada for ach per on par wit max lik -
neu pro lan mod
the use : neu lan mod lea the fea joi wit oth par , whi max ent mod use xed han - eng fea and onl lea the wei for tho fea .
a neu lan mod rep eac wor in the voc usi a rea - val fea vec and den the sco fun - tio in ter of the fea vec of the con wor and the nex wor .
in som mod , die fea vec tab are use for the con and the nex wor voc ( ben et al . , 123 ) , whi in oth - ers the tab is sha ( ben et al . , 123 mni &
the fea vec acc for the vas maj of pa - ram in neu lan mod , whi mea tha the mem req are lin in the voc - lar siz .
thi com fav to the mem re - qui of the n - gra mod , whi are typ lin in the tra set siz .
log - bil mod
the tra met we pro is dir app to all neu pro and max - ent lan - gua mod .
for sim , we wil per our ex - per usi the log - bil lan ( lbl ) mod ( mni & hin , 123 ) , whi is the sim neu - ral lan mod .
the lbl mod per lin - ear pre in the sem wor fea spa and doe not hav non - lin .
in spi of its sim - ity , the lbl mod has bee sho to out n - gra , tho the mor com neu lan mod ( mik et al . , 123 mni et al . , 123 ) can
a sta lan mod is sim a col of con dis for the nex wor , ind by its con . 123 in a neu lan mod the con - tio dis cor to con h , p h ( w ) , is den as
w ( cid : 123 ) exp ( s ( w ( cid : 123 ) , h ) )
whe s ( w , h ) is the sco fun wit par whi qua the com of wor w wit con h .
the neg sco fun is som ref to as the ene fun ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
dep on the for of s ( w , h ) , eq .
123 can de - scr bot neu and max ent lan mod ( ber et al . , 123 ) .
the mai die bet the two mod cla lie in the fea
123 alm all sta lan mod pre the nex wor , it is als pos to mod the dis of the wor pre the con or sur by the
in thi pap we wil use a sli ext ver of the lbl mod tha use sep fea vec tab for the con wor and the tar wor .
thu a con wor w wil be rep wit fea vec rw , whi a tar wor w wil be rep wit fea - tur vec qw .
giv a con h , the mod com the pre rep for the tar wor by lin com the fea vec for the con wor usi pos - dep con wei mat -
the sco for the mat bet the con and the nex wor is com by tak the dot pro be - twe the pre rep and the rep - tat of the can tar wor w : s ( w , h ) = q ( cid : 123 ) qw + bw .
a fas and sim alg for tra neu pro lan mod
her bw is the bas rat par use to mod the pop of w .
the pro of w in con h is the obt by plu the abo sco fun int eq
max lik lea
max lik tra of neu lan mod - els is tra but exp bec com the log - lik tak tim lin in the voc siz .
the con of a sin con - tex / wor obs to the gra of the log - lik is giv by
log p h
s ( w , h ) ( cid : 123 )
s ( w , h ) ep h
( w ( cid : 123 ) ) is exp to eva the exp w . r . t .
p h bec it req com s ( w , h ) for all wor in the voc .
sin voc typ con - tai ten of tho of wor , max lik lea ten to be ver slo .
imp sam
ben and sen ( 123 ) hav pro a met for spe up tra of neu lan mod bas on app the exp in eq .
123 us - ing imp sam .
the ide is to gen k sam x12 , . . . , xk fro an eas - to - sam - fro dis - but qh ( w ) and est the gra wit
log p h
s ( w , h ) 123
and v = ( cid : 123 ) k
whe v ( x ) = exp ( s ( x , h ) ) j=1 v ( xj ) .
the nor by v is nec her bec the im - por wei v are com usi the unn - ize mod dis exp ( s ( x , h ) ) .
typ the pro dis is an n - gra mod t to the tra set , pos wit a con siz die fro the neu mod .
tho thi app is con sim , it is non - tri to use in pra bec the hig var of the imp sam est can mak lea - ing uns .
the var ten to gro as lea - ing pro , bec the mod dis mov awa fro the pro dis . 123 one way to
123 and sen ( 123 ) arg tha thi hap be -
con the var is to kee inc the num of sam dur tra so tha the eec sam - ple siz sta abo som pre val ( ben - gio & sen , 123 ) .
alt , the n - gra pro - pos dis can be ada to tra the mod dis thr tra ( ben & sen , 123 ) .
the rst app is sim but les e - cie bec the inc num of sam mak lea slo .
the sec app lea to gre spe but is con mor dic to imp - men and req add mem for sto the ada pro dis .
noi - con est
we pro usi noi - con est ( nce ) as a mor sta alt to imp sam for eci tra of neu lan mod and oth mod den by eq .
nce has rec bee in - tro by gut and hyv ( 123 ) for tra - ing unn pro mod .
tho it has bee dev for est pro den , we are int in app it to dis dis and so wil ass dis dis and use pro - abi mas fun ins of den fun .
the bas ide of nce is to red the pro of den est to tha of bin cla , dis - cri bet sam fro the dat dis - tio and sam fro a kno noi dis .
in the lan mod set , the dat dis d ( w ) wil be the dis of wor tha occ af - ter a par con h .
tho it is pos to use con - dep noi dis , for sim we wil use a con - ind ( uni ) pn ( w ) .
we are int in tti the con - dep mod p h
( w ) to p h
fol gut and hyv ( 123 ) , we ass tha noi sam are k tim mor fre tha dat sam , so tha dat com fro the mix k+1 p h k+1 pn ( w ) .
the the pos pro tha sam w cam fro the dat dis is
d ( w ) + k
p h ( d = 123 ) =
d ( w ) + kpn ( w )
sin we wou lik to t p h pla of p h a fun of the mod par :
d in eq .
123 , mak the pos pro
d , we use p h
to p h
p h ( d = 123 , ) =
( w ) + kpn ( w )
cau neu lan mod and n - gra mod lea ver die dis .
a fas and sim alg for tra neu pro lan mod
thi qua can be too exp to com , how - eve , bec of the nor req for eva - uat p h ( w ) ( eq .
nce sid thi iss by avo exp nor and tre nor - iza con as par .
thu the mod is par in ter of an unn dis - tio p h12 123 and a lea par ch cor to the log of the nor con :
( w ) = p h12
123 ( w ) exp ( ch ) .
her 123 are the par of the unn dis - tri and = ( 123 , ch ) .
to t the con - dep mod to the dat ( for the mom ign the fac tha it sha par wit mod for oth con ) , we sim max the exp of log p h ( d|w , ) und the mix of the dat and noi sam .
thi lea to the obj
( xi ) +kp ( xi ) are alw be - not tha the wei twe 123 and 123 , whi mak nce - bas lea ver sta ( gut & hyv , 123 ) .
in con , the wei pro by imp sam can be ar -
sin the dis for die con sha pa - ram , we can lea the dis ind - den of eac oth by opt one j h ( ) at a tim .
ins , we den a glo nce obj by com - ing the per - con nce obj usi the emp con pro p ( h ) as wei :
p ( h ) j h ( ) .
not tha thi is the tra app for com - ing the per - con ml obj for tra neu
dea wit nor con
our ini imp of nce tra lea a ( log - ) nor con ( c in eq .
123 ) for eac con - tex in the tra set , sto the in a has tab ind by the con . 123 tho thi app wor wel for sma dat , it req est one pa - ram per con , mak it dic to sca to hug num of obs con enc by mod wit lar con siz .
sur , we dis tha xin the nor con to 123 , 123 ins of lea the , did not aec the per of the res mod .
we bel thi is bec the mod has so man fre par tha mee the app - mat per - con nor con enc by the obj fun is eas .
log p h
pot spe
j h ( ) =ep h
( w ) + kpn ( w )
( w ) + kpn ( w )
wit the gra
j h ( ) =ep h
( w ) + kpn ( w )
log p h
( w ) + kpn ( w )
log p h
not tha the gra can als be exp as
j h ( ) =
( w ) + kpn ( w ) d ( w ) p h
and tha as k ,
j h ( ) ( cid : 123 )
d ( w ) p h
log p h
whi is the max lik gra .
thu as the rat of noi sam to obs inc , the nce gra app the max lik
in pra , giv a wor w obs in con h , we com its con to the gra by gen k noi sam x12 , . . . , xk and usi the for
j h , w ( ) =
( w ) + kpn ( w )
( xi ) + kpn ( xi )
log p h
log p h
we wil now com the gra com cos for nce and ml lea .
sup c is the con siz , d is the wor fea vec dim , and v is the voc siz of the mod .
the com - put the pre rep usi eq .
123 tak abo cd1 ope for bot nce and ml .
for ml , com the dis of the nex wor fro the pre rep tak abo v d ope .
for nce , eva the pro of k noi sam und the mod tak abo kd ope .
sin the gra com in eac mod has the sam com - ple as com the pro , the spe for
123 did not use the lea nor con whe com the val and tes set per .
rat we nor the pro exp .
123 amo to set the nor par c
a fas and sim alg for tra neu pro lan mod
tab 123
res for the lbl mod wit 123 fea vec - tor and a 123 - wor con on the pen tre cor .
num of tes tra
tab 123
the eec of the noi dis and the num - ber of noi sam on the tes set per .
eac par upd due to usi nce is abo
cd1 + v d cd1 + kd
cd + v cd + k
for a mod wit a 123 - wor con , 123 fea vec - tor , and a voc siz of 123 , an nce upd usi 123 noi sam sho be abo 123 tim fas tha an ml upd .
sin the tim com of com the pre rep is qua in the fea vec di - men , it can dom the cos of the par upd , mak lea slo eve for a sma num of noi sam .
we can avo thi by mak con wei mat ci dia , red the com of com the pre rep to cd , and mak the spe fac c+v c+k .
for the mod abo thi wou amo to a fac of 123
the use of di - ago con mat was int by mni & hin ( 123 ) to spe up the hie lbl - lik
sin the cos of a par upd for imp - sam - bas lea is the sam as for nce wit the sam num of noi sam , the alg tha nee few sam to per wel wil be fas .
pen tre res
we inv the pro of the pro alg - rit emp on the pen tre cor .
as is com pra , we tra on sec 123 - 123 ( 123
wor ) and use sec 123 - 123 ( 123 wor ) as the val - ida set and sec 123 - 123 ( 123 wor ) as the tes set .
the sta voc of 123 mos fre wor was use wit the rem wor rep by a spe tok .
we cho to use thi dat to kee the tra tim for exa max lik lea -
the lea rat wer ada at the end of eac epo bas on the cha in the val set per - ple sin the end of the pre epo .
the rat wer hal whe the per inc and wer lef unc oth .
par wer upd bas on min - bat of 123 con / wor pai eac .
exc whe sta oth , nce tra gen 123 noi sam fro the emp uni dis per con / wor obs .
noi sam - ple wer gen ane for eac upd .
we did not use a wei pen as the val - sco - bas lea rat red app to be suc to avo ove .
all mod use a two - wor con and die 123 fea vec tab for con and tar wor .
our rst exp com ml lea to nce lea for var num of noi sam .
the re - sul tes per and tra tim are sho in tab 123
it is cle tha inc the num of noi sam pro bet - per mod , wit 123 sam bei suc to mat the ml - in ter of tra tim , nce was 123 tim fas tha ml .
the num of noi sam - ple did not hav a sig eec on the run tim bec com the pre rep was con mor exp tha com the pro of ( at mos ) 123 sam .
the mai rea - son the spe fac was les tha 123 ( the val pre - dic in sec 123 ) is bec nce too abo twi as man epo as ml to con .
our nce imp - men is als les opt tha the ml imp - men whi tak gre adv of the bla
to exp the eec of the noi dis on the per of the alg , we tri gen noi sam fro the uni as wel as the uni dis .
for eac noi dis we tra mod usi 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 noi sam per dat - apo .
as sho in tab 123 , the uni noi dis - tri lea to muc bet tes set per in all cas .
how , the per gap shr as the num of noi sam inc , fro alm 123 for a sin noi sam dow to und 123 for 123 noi sam .
in spi of poo tes set per , a uni noi dis did not lea to lea
a fas and sim alg for tra neu pro lan mod
ins eve whe a sin noi sam was use .
in add to the ml and nce alg , we als imp the imp sam tra alg - rit fro ( ben & sen , 123 ) to use as a bas - lin , but fou it ver uns .
it div in vir all of our exp , eve wit ada sam siz and the tar eec sam siz set to hun .
the onl run tha did not div inv lea a uni mod usi the tar uni as the pro - pos dis , whi is the ide sit for im - por sam .
the cau of fai in all cas was the app of ext lar imp wei onc the mod dis bec suc die - ent fro the uni pro dis , whi is a kno pro wit imp sam .
sin is - bas met see to req wel ove a hun sam per gra com ( ben & sen , 123 ) , eve whe an ada pro dis is use , we exp is - bas tra to be con - abl slo tha nce , whi , as we hav sho , can ach ml - lev per wit onl 123 noi sam -
sen com cha
to dem the sca and eec of our app we use it to tra sev lar neu - ral lan mod for the mic res sen - ten com cha ( zwe & bur , 123 ) .
the cha was des as a ben for sem - tic mod and con of sat - sty sen com - tio pro .
giv 123 , 123 sen , eac of whi is mis a wor , the tas is to sel the cor wor out of the ve can pro for eac sen .
can wor hav bee cho fro rel in - fre wor usi a max ent mod to ens tha the res com sen wer not too imp .
hum jud the pic the bes fou can for eac sen so tha all com - tio wer gra cor but the cor an - swe was una .
tho hum can ach ove 123 acc on the tas , sta mod far muc wor wit the bes res of 123 pro by a who - sen lsa mod , and n - gra mod ach onl abo 123 acc ( zwe & bur ,
neu lan mod are a nat cho for thi tas bec the can tak adv of lar con - tex tha tra n - gra mod , whi we exp
123 usi a uni pro dis mig app nai , ben and sen ( 123 ) rep tha hig - ord n - gra pro dis wor muc wor tha the uni .
to be imp for sen com .
we use a sli mod lbl arc for our mod for thi tas .
in the int of sca , we use dia - ona con wei mat whi red the tim com of gra com fro qua to lin in the dim of wor fea vec and all us to use mor fea dim .
sin the tas was sen com , we mad the mod - els awa of sen bou by usi a spe out - of - sen tok for wor in con pos out of the sen con the wor bei pre - dic .
for exa , thi tok wou be use as the con wor whe pre the rst wor in a sen - ten usi a mod wit a sin - wor con .
we sco a can sen wit a lan mod by usi it to com the pro of eac wor in the sen and tak the pro of tho pro - iti as the sen sco .
we the pic the can wor tha pro the hig - sco sen as our ans .
not tha thi way of usi a mod wit a c - wor con tak int acc c wor on bot sid of the can wor bec the pro of the c wor fol the can wor dep on it .
the mod wer tra on the sta tra set for the cha con 123 wor fro pro gut .
aft rem the pro gut hea and foo fro the les , we spl the int sen and the tok the sen int wor .
we use the pun sen tok and the pen tre wor tok fro nlt ( bir et al . , 123 ) .
we the con all wor to low and rep the one tha occ few tha 123 tim wit an unk wor tok , res in a voc - ula siz of jus und 123 , 123
the sen to be com wer pre in the sam man .
the res dat was the ran spl at the sen - ten lev int a tes and val set of 123 wor ( 123 sen ) eac and a 123 - wor tra set .
we use the tra pro des in sec 123 , wit the exc of usi a sma wei pen to avo ove .
eac mod too bet one and two day to tra on a sin cor of a mod cpu .
as a bas for com , we als tra sev n - gra mod ( wit mod kne - ney smo ) usi the sri too ( sto , 123 ) , obt res sim to tho rep by zwe & bur
sin we sel hyp bas on the ( gut ) val set per , we rep the sco on the ent col of 123 , 123 sen , whi mea tha our res are dir com to tho of zwe & bur ( 123 ) .
as can be see fro ta -
a fas and sim alg for tra neu pro lan mod
tab 123
acc on the com msr sen com - ple cha dat .
n 123 ind a bid con .
the lsa res is fro ( zwe & bur , 123 ) .
con lat per tes
ble 123 , mor wor fea and lar con lea to bet per in lbl mod in ter of bot ac - cur and per .
the lbl mod per con - sid bet on sen com tha n - gra mod , in spi of hav hig tes per .
eve the lbl mod wit a two - wor con per bet - ter tha any n - gra mod .
the lbl mod wit a ve - wor con , mat the bes pub res on the dat .
not tha the lsa mod tha pro - duc tha res con all wor in a sen , whi an lbl mod wit a c - wor con con onl the 123 wor tha sur the can wor .
the mod wit a 123 - wor con and 123 fea vec out the lsa mod by a lar mar - gin and set a new acc rec for the dat at
lan mod typ use the wor pre the wor of int as the con .
how , sin we are int in lli in a wor in the mid of the sen , it mak sen to use bot the pre and the fol wor as the con for the lan - gua mod , mak the con bid .
we tra sev lbl mod wit bid con - tex to see whe suc mod are sup to the uni - con cou for sen com - ple .
sco a sen wit a bid mod is bot sim and fas : we sim com the pro of the can wor und the mod us - ing the con sur the wor .
thu a mod is app onl onc per sen , ins of c+1 tim req by the uni mod .
as tab 123 sho , the lbl mod wit bid
con ach muc low tes per tha the uni cou , whi is not sur be - cau the als con on wor tha fol the wor bei pre .
wha is sur , how , is tha bid con app to be con - abl les eec for sen com tha uni - rec con .
tho the c - wor con mod and c 123 - wor con mod loo at the sam wor whe usi the sco pro we des abo , the uni mod see to mak bet use of the ava inf .
we hav int a sim and eci met for tra sta lan mod bas on noi - con est .
our res sho tha the lea alg is ver sta and can pro mod - els tha per as wel as the one tra usi max - mum lik in les tha one - ten of the tim .
in a lar - sca tes of the app , we tra sev neu - ral lan mod on a col of pro gut - ber tex , ach sta - of - the - art per on the mic res sen com cha -
tho we hav sho tha the uni noi dis - but is suc for tra neu lan mod eci , con - dep noi dis are wor inv bec the mig lea to eve fas tra by red the num of noi sam -
rec , pih et al .
( 123 ) int a fam of est met for unn mod tha in - clu nce and imp sam as spe cas .
oth mem of thi fam mig be of int for tra lan mod , tho our pre re - sul sug tha non of the out nce .
fin , we bel tha nce can be app to man mod oth tha neu or max - ent lan - gua mod .
pro cla wit man cla are a pri can .
we tha vin rao and llo ell for the hel - ful com .
we tha the gat cha fou - dat for gen fun .
