we sho qui goo fac clu is pos for a dat of ina and amb lab fac ima .
our dat is 123 , 123 fac ima , obt by app a fac nde to app hal a mil cap new im - age .
thi dat is mor rea tha usu fac rec - nit dat , bec it con fac cap in the wil in a var of con wit res to the cam - era , tak a var of exp , and und ill - tio of wid var col .
eac fac ima is ass wit a set of nam , aut ext fro the as - soc cap .
man , but not all suc set con the
we clu fac ima in app dis co - ord .
we use a clu pro to bre amb - iti in lab and ide inc lab fac .
a mer pro the ide var of nam tha re - fer to the sam ind .
the res rep can be use to lab fac in new ima or to org new pic by ind pre .
an alt vie of our pro is as a pro tha cle up noi sup dat .
we dem how to use ent mea to eva suc pro .
it is str to obt eno dat of ima , wit att ann .
exa inc : col of mus mat ( 123 ) ; the cor col of ima any vid wit sou or clo cap ima col fro the web wit the enc web pag or cap
exp par sup dat is a wid stu - ied the in vis res .
ima reg may use and fai acc be lin wit wor , eve tho the wor are not lin to the reg in the dat ori ( 123 , 123 ) .
for exa , mod bas aro tem and re - lat may be lea fro a dat of mot ima
whe one nev spe whe in the ima the mot - cle lie ( for fac , see ( 123 , 123 ) ; for ani in sta ima and in vid , see ( 123 , 123 ) ; for a ran of obj , see ( 123 ) ) .
in thi pap , we sho tha fac and nam can be lin in an eno dat , des err and amb in pro nam det , in fac det and in cor .
fac rec is wel stu , and can be sur rea in the spa ava .
ear fac rec is don in ( 123 , 123 ) and is rev in ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
our pro is sli dif fro fac rec , in tha it is mor imp to ide dis coo whi can be use to dis bet fac , eve for ind not rep in the dat tha to cla the fac .
as a res , we foc on ado the kpc / lda met - olo , rat tha on bui a mul - cla cla .
our cur wor is a nec pre to rea wor fac rec mac : bui lar and rea set of lab dat for rec .
we can lev pas wor by usi it to det wha fea mig be use for ide sim fac .
the gen app inv usi una lab dat ite to est dis coo
( sec 123 ) .
we the use a ver of - mea to all
amb lab fac to one of the lab ( sec 123 ) .
onc thi is don , we cle up the clu by rem dat ite far fro the mea , and re - est dis coo - din ( sec 123 ) .
fin , we mer clu bas on fac sim ( sec 123 ) .
we sho qua and qua res in sec 123
we hav col a dat con of app hal a mil new pic and cap fro yah new ove a per of rou two yea .
fac : usi the fac det of ( 123 ) we ext 123 , 123 fac ima ( siz 123 or lar wit suf fac de - tec sco and res to 123 pix ) .
sin the pic wer tak in the wil rat tha und xed
nam fre hav the lon tai tha occ in nat - ral lan pro .
we exp tha fac ima rou fol the sam dis .
we hav hun to tho - san of ima of a few ind ( e . g .
pre bus ) , and a lar num of ind who app onl a few tim or in onl one pic .
one exp rea app to hav thi pro .
for exa , in air sec cam - era a few peo , sec gua , or air sta mig be see oft , but the maj of peo wou app inf - que .
stu how rec sys per und suc a dis is imp .
the she vol of ava dat is ext .
we hav sha red the num of fac ima we dea wit by usi a fac det tha is bia to fro fac and by req tha fac be lar and rec pro .
eve so , we hav a dat tha is com to , or lar tha , the big ava lab set and is muc ric in con .
com ker pca and lin dis for a set thi siz req spe tec ( sec 123 ) .
bef com ima , we aut rec all fac to a can pos .
fiv sup vec mac are tra as fea det ( cor of the lef and rig eye , cor of the mou , and the tip of the nos ) usi 123 han cli fac .
we use the geo blu of ( 123 ) app to gra pat as the fea for our svm .
a new fac is tes by run eac svm ove the ima wit a wea pri on loc for eac fea .
we com an afn tra den by the lea squ sol - tio bet max out of eac svm and can fea loc .
we the per gra des to nd the afn tra whi bes map det poi to can fea loc .
eac ima is the rec to a com pos and ass a sco bas on the sum of its fea det res .
lar rec sco ind bet fea det - tio and the bet rec .
we lte our dat by rem ima wit poo rec sco and are lef wit 123 , 123 fac ima .
eac fac is aut cro to a reg sur the eye , nos and mou to eli eff of bac on rec .
the rgb pix val fro eac cro fac are con int a vec and use fro her on .
dis ana we per ker pri com ana ( kpc ) to red the dim of our dat and lin dis - nan ana ( lda ) to pro dat int a spa tha is sui for the dis tas .
ker pri com ana : ker pca ( 123 ) use a ker fun to efc com a pri - pal com bas in a hig - dim fea spa ,
fig 123 : top row sho fac det res , bot row sho ima ret by the fac rec wit rec sco sho cen ( lar sco ind bet rec - tio per ) .
the fac rec use an svm to det fea poi on eac fac .
gra des is the use to nd the bes afn tra to map fea poi to can loc .
lab con , the rep a bro ran of ind - vid , pos , exp and ill con .
in - div als cha ove tim , whi has bee sho to ham rec in ( 123 ) .
our fac rec dat is mor var tha any oth to dat .
nam : we ext a lex of pro nam fro all the cap by ide two or mor cap wor fol by a pre ten ver ( ( 123 ) ) .
wor are cla as ver by rst app a lis of mor rul to pre ten sin for , and the com the to a dat of kno ver ( wor ( 123 ) ) .
thi lex is mat to eac cap .
eac fac det in an ima is ass wit eve nam ext fro the ass cap ( e . g .
our job is to lab eac fac det res wit the cor nam ( if one exi ) .
sca : we obt 123 , 123 lar and rel fac det res .
we rej fac ima tha can be rec sat , lea 123 , 123
fin , we con on ima ass wit 123 or few nam , lea 123 , 123
123 dis pro per gur rep in the vis lit are inc wit exp of dep fac rec sys ( e . g . , see ( 123 ) ) .
thi sug tha lab dat lac imp phe .
our dat dif fro typ fac rec dat in a num of imp way .
pos , exp and ill var wid .
the fac det ten not to det lat vie of fac , but ( gur 123 ) we oft enc the sam fac ill wit mar dif col lig and in a bro ran of ex - pre .
spe and mus are com .
the are wig , ima of fac on pos , dif in res - lut and ide pic .
qui oft the are mul - ple cop of the sam pic ( thi is due to the way new pic are pre , rat tha a col pro ) or mul pic of the sam ind in sim con - rat .
fin , som ind are tra acr tim .
pre geo w .
bus mak a sta - men in the ros gar whi sec of def don rum loo on , jul 123 , 123
rum sai the uni sta wou rel gra pho of the dea son of sad hus to pro the wer kil by ame tro .
pho by lar dow -
bri dir sam men and his par - ner act kat win arr at the lon pre of the roa to per , sep - ber 123 , 123
the lms sta tom han as a chi hit man who has a sep fam - ily lif and co - sta pau new and jud law .
reu / dan chu
inc cal gov .
gra dav ( new - web sit ) lea rep cha - len bil sim by 123 per poi alt 123 per of vot are sti und - cid , acc to a pol rel oct 123 , 123 by the pub pol ins of cal - ifo .
dav is sho spe to rep aft his deb wit sim in los ang , on oct .
( jim ruy / reu )
wor num one lle hew of aus - tra hit a ret to nic mas of chi at the jap ope ten cha in tok oct 123 , 123
reu / eri
ger sup cla sch gav bir to a bab boy by cae sec jan 123 , 123 , her spo sai .
the bab is the rst chi for bot sch - fer , 123 , and her hus , bri lm pro - duc mat vau , who was at her sid for the bir .
sch is see on the ger - man tel sho bet it . . . ? ! das . . . ? ! ) in bra , on jan 123 , 123
( ale win / reu ) us pre geo w .
bus ( l ) mak re - mar whi sec of sta col pow - ell ( r ) lis bef sig the us lea - shi aga hiv / aid , tub and mal act of 123 at the dep of sta in was , dc .
the ve - yea pla is des to hel pre and tre aid , esp in mor tha a doz afr and car nat ( afp / luk fra )
fig 123 : giv an inp ima and an ass cap ( ima abo and cap to the rig of eac ima ) , our sys aut det fac ( whi box ) in the ima and pos nam str ( bol ) .
we use a clu pro to bui mod of app for eac nam and the aut lab eac of the det fac wit a nam if one exi .
the aut lab are sho in box bel the fac .
mul fac may be det and mul nam may be ext , mea we mus det who is who ( e . g . , the pic of clu sch ) .
rel to the inp spa by som non map .
ker - nel pca has bee sho to per bet tha pca at fac rec ( 123 ) .
ker pca is per as fol : com a ker mat , k , whe is the val of the ker fun com ( we use a gau ker ) .
cen the ker mat in fea spa ( by sub off ave row , ave col and add on ave ele val ) .
com an eig - tio of k , and pro ont the nor eig of
lin dis ana : lda has bee sho to wor wel for fac dis ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) bec it use cla inf to nd a set of dis tha pus mea of dif cla awa fro eac oth .
123 nys app our dat is too lar to do kpc dir as the ker mat , k wil be of siz nxn , whe n is the the num - ber of ima in the dat , and inv app ima com .
the , we ins use an ap - pro to cal the eig of k .
inc cho dec ( icd ( 123 ) ) can be use to cal - lat an app to k wit a bou on the app - tio err , but inv acc all n ima for eac col - umn com ( whe n is the num of ima in the
dat ) .
the nys app met ( cf ( 123 , 123 ) ) giv a sim res , but all the ima to be acc in a sin bat rat tha onc for eac col com - put ( the bei muc fas to com for lar mat ) .
nys doe not giv the sam err bou on its app to k .
how , bec of the smo pro of ker mat we exp the num of lar eig of our mat to be sma , whe the num of lar eig sho go dow rel to the amo of smo .
in our mat we obs tha the eig do ten to dro off qui .
bec of thi , a sub of the col of our mat , sho enc muc of the dat in the mat .
thi imp tha the nys met may pro a goo app to k .
the nys met com two exa sub of k , a and b , and use the to app the res of k .
usi thi app of k , the eig can be app -
fir the n
n ker mat , k , is par as
, ! ' / ) 123 - . + and : ' / ) 123 - 123 .
her , a is a sub of the ima , ( in our cas 123 ran -
z _ udo
acz om tr@
acc dam hus
fig 123 : the gur sho a rep set of clu fro our lar thr ser , ill a ser of imp pro of bot the dat and the met .
not tha thi pic gre exa our err rat in ord to sho int phe and all the typ of err we enc .
123 : som fac are ver fre and app in man dif exp and pos , wit a ric ran of ill ( e . g .
clu lab sta col pow , or don rum ) .
the clu als dem tha our clu can cop wit the phe .
123 : som fac are rar , or app in eit rep cop of one or two pic or onl sli dif pic ( e . g .
clu lab abu say or act jen ani ) .
123 : som fac are not , in fac , pho ( ali imr ) .
123 : the ass bet pro nam and fac is sti som noi , bec it rem dif to tel whi str are nam of per ( uni nat , whi sho thr sep fac phe tha co - occ fre wit thi str jus dep , whi is con as to fac but not the nam of a per and pre dan ara moi or joh pau , whi sho a nam ass wit the wro fac ) .
123 : som nam are gen amb ( jam bon , whi sho two dif fac nat ass wit the nam ( the rst is an act who pla jam bon , the sec an act who was a vil in a jam bon lm ) .
123 : som fac app at bot low and rea res ( sad hus ) .
123 : our clu mer pro is abl to mer clu dep the sam fac but lab wit dis str ( the clu in the lig gra and dar gra pol , res ) .
123 : our clu mer pro is not per and cou ben fro dee syn kno of nam ( eri rud and eri rob rud ) , but in cas suc as def sec rum , don rum and def don rum the mer pro are cor .
123 : our clu is qui res in the pre of spe ( han bli ) , per wig ( joh bol ) and mus ( joh bol ) .
sta col pow
def don rum don rum
tab 123 : mul nam can oft ref to the sam per .
we lin nam to peo bas on ima .
if two nam hav the sam ass fac , the the mus ref to the sam per .
the abo pai are the top nam mer pro - pos by our sys .
mer are pro bet two nam if the clu ref to eac nam con sim
dom sel ima ) com to the , b is the com of eac of the ima of a , to the res of the ima in our dat , and c is app by the nys met .
nys giv an app for c .
thi giv an app to k ,
the we for
, the cen ver of our app - , by cal app ave row , ave col sum ( the are equ sin k is sym ) , and ave ele val .
we can app the ave row ( or col ) sum as :
is dia by :
we cen as usu ,
we the sol for the ort app eig - vec as fol .
fir , we rep a and b by the
cen ver .
let be the squ roo of a , and .
dia s as
we pro as usu for kpc , thi dec of by nor the eig the nor eig .
thi giv a dim red of our ima tha mak the dis tas
the we hav
we vie our col as a sem - sup dat wit err tha we wis to cle up .
fir we for dis - ina fro fac wit onl one com ext nam .
whi thi is a fai sma set of fac and the lab are not per , the let us for an ini dis spa .
we pro all of our ima int thi spa and per a mod - ied k - mea pro for clu .
thi giv a lar and les noi dat fro whi to rec dis - nan .
the new dis giv a bet rep of ide and we use the to re - clu .
thi giv a rel - abl set of clu .
123 mod k - mea clu eac ima has an ass vec , giv by the kpc and lda pro , and a set of ext nam ( tho wor ext usi our pro nam det fro the
the clu pro wor as fol : 123
ran ass eac ima to one of its ext nam 123
for eac dis nam ( clu ) , cal the mea of ima vec - tor ass to tha nam .
rea eac ima to the clo mea of its ext nam .
rep 123 - 123 unt con ( i . e .
no ima cha nam dur an ite - 123 pru clu we use a nea nei mod to des our dat and thr out poi tha hav a low pro und thi mod .
we rem clu wit few tha thr ima so tha nea nei has som mea .
thi lea 123 , 123 ima .
we the rem poi wit low lik for a var of thr ( tab 123 ) to get err rat as low as 123 , ( err rat are cal by han lab pic fro our dat ) .
we den lik as the rat of the pro tha it cam fro its ass clu ove the pro tha it did not com fro its ass clu :
whe for a poi x in clu
is the num of poi in clu
, k is the num of nea - is the num of tho , n is the tot num of poi in the .
we are us - as the est pro of a clu
est nei we are con ,
nei tha are in giv mor wei to sma clu .
123 mer clu we wou lik to mer clu wit dif nam tha act cor to a sin per suc as def don - ald rum and don rum or ven pre hug cha and hug cha .
thi can be ext har to do dir fro tex , in sit suc as col pow
tab 123 : dat siz , num of clu and err rat for dif thr .
the num of peo in eac set is app the num of clu and err rat is de - ned as : giv an ind and a fac fro the ass - ate clu , the err rat is the pro of tha fac be - ing inc .
we see tha for mid - lev pru we get qui sma err rat .
we hav tur a lar sem - sup set of fac int a wel sup set and pro cle clu of man peo .
and sec of sta ( the nam do not sha any wor ) .
we pro to mer nam tha cor to fac tha loo the sam .
our sys aut pro mer bet clu tha hav sim com i . e .
if the clu hav sim fac in the the pos des the sam per .
we can jud the sim of clu by the dis bet the mea in dis coo - nat .
tab 123 sho tha alm all the top pro mer cor to cor mer ( two nam tha ref to the sam per ) , exc tha of ric mye and pre 123
qua eva we vie thi met as tak a sup dat tha con - tai err and amb in the sup sig and pro a dat wit an imp ( or , ide , cor ) sup sig , pos omi som dat ite .
we mus now det how muc bet the new dat is .
two thi can hav hap : fir , the dat may be sma .
sec , the sup sig sho be mor ac -
but how muc mor acc ? if we are wil to as - sum tha all err are equ , we can see thi iss as a cod pro .
in par , one mus det how man bit nee to be sup to mak the dat cor .
we com thi sco on a per - ite bas , so tha the siz of the dat doe not aff the sco .
the num com is nec an est we may not hav an opt cod sch but if one use a rea com cod sch sho all us to ran met aga one 123 the cos of cor unc dat we hav a set of ima - tex pai , eac of whi con of an ima of one of the ind , and a lis of bet 123 and 123 ( typ ) tex lab .
for eac dat ite , we mus now det whe thi set of lab con the cor
ori dat set cos giv ima lab cos giv clu
log ( num of ima )
fig 123 : the gur sho the app cos per ite of cor eac dat plo aga the siz of the dat .
not tha the ori dat ( the cro ) is lar and noi if one clu , mer and cle , the ign the clu str , the res dat is , in fac , som noi ( das lin ) .
fin , if one loo at the clu str , too , the dat is muc cle in par - tic one is con inf to a dat by clu - ter it cor .
fin , inc set of our re - jec thr lea to dat tha ten to be sma and
rep the ran var tha tak on , we can do thi wit ) .
if the lis lab con the cor nam , we can tel whi it bit .
if it doe not , we mus sup the cor bit ( the ent of the lab
nam , whi wil cos
is the con ent of$
tha hav a cor lab in tha lis , and por of tho wit ite of cor the ori dat
123 the cos of cor clu dat our clu pro int two typ of str .
fir , it ass eac ima fro an ima - tex pai to one clu .
sec , it ass a tex to eac clu , so imp lab eac ima pai wit tha clu .
if the lab rep in thi way is per , no fur bit nee to be pro .
we com the add cos for per lab by exa how muc wor ( how man bit ) are req to x all the err in an imp clu and clu lab .
we ass the ent of the lab set rem xed .
we spl the pro of xin up imp clu int two ste .
in the rst ste , we cha the nam of eac clu , if nec , so tha it cor to the per who app mos fre in thi clu .
in the sec ste , we cha the lab of eac ima in a clu if it doe not cor to the ( now cor ) lab of the clu .
for the pro of ima wit
for the pro - lab tha do not .
the tot cos per in thi fas is
fix the clu lab : let be the pro of the pro of clu wit the cor lab and clu wit an inc lab .
let be the ran var - abl rep whe a clu is lab cor or not and rec our pra of wri the ent of a ran - the cos per clu of cor the lab for all the clu is the
obt the cor nam , and the cos is
for the tot num of clu per ite ( we
fix inc ele wit the clu : we as - sum for sim tha , onc the lab hav bee cor as abo , the pro of cor lab ele in a is ind of the clu .
thi mea tha the cos per ite of xin inc lab ele is ind of the spe clu str .
the to nis xin the lab we mus pay bit per ite to ide - bit per inc ite to
lab of the dat , aft clu , as
tif the inc ite and ) .
we hav a tot per ite cos for the cor
