hie mod is a fun con in bay sta .
the bas ide is tha par are end wit dis whi may the int new par , and thi con rec .
in thi rev we dis the rol of hie mod in bay non - par , foc on mod in whi the inn - dim par - ter are tre hie .
for exa , we con a mod in whi the bas mea for a dir pro is its tre as a dra fro ano dir pro .
thi yie a nat rec tha we ref to as a hie dir pro .
we als dis hie bas on the pit - yor pro and on com ran pro .
we dem the val of the hie con in a wid ran of pra app , in pro in com bio , com vis and nat lan pro .
hie mod is a fun con in bay sta .
the bas ide is tha par are end wit dis whi may the int new par , and thi con rec .
a com mot in hie mod is tha of the con ind hie , in whi a set of par are cou by mak the dis dep
on a sha und par .
the dis are oft tak to be ide , bas on an ass of exc and an app to de fin
hie hel to uni sta , pro a bay int of fre con suc as shr and ran eec .
hie als pro way to spe non - sta dis for , obt as int ove und par .
the pla a rol in com pra in the gui of var aug .
the adv are wel app in the wor of par mod , and few bay par mod fai to mak use of som asp of hie mod in the wor .
non bay mod als typ inc man cla nit - dim par , inc sca and loc par , and hie - chi mod con are oft inv in spe dis for the par .
for exa , the dir pro dp ( , g12 ) inv a con - tio par , whi is gen giv a pri dis in non ( and sem ) mod tha mak use of the dir pro .
mor , the bas mea , g12 , is oft tak to be a par dis and its par are end wit pri dis as wel .
in thi cha we dis a mor tho exp of hie - cal mod ide in bay non sta .
the bas ide is tha rat tha tre dis par suc as g12 par , we tre the non .
in par , the bas mea g12 in the dir - let pro can its be vie as a ran dra fro som dis on mea it can be vie as a dra fro the dir pro .
thi yie a nat rec tha we ref to as a hie dir pro - ces .
our foc in thi cha is on non hie of thi kin , whe the too of bay non mod are use rec .
the mot for the use of hie mod ide in the non - met set are at lea as str as the are in the par set .
in par , non mod inv lar num of deg of fre , and hie mod ide pro ess con ove the deg of fre .
mor , hie mod mak it pos to tak the bui - ing blo pro by sim sto pro suc as the dir pro and con mod tha exh ric kin of pro str .
thi bre lif int the non fra .
the cha is org as fol .
in sec 123 , we dis the hie dir pro , sho how it can be use to lin mul dir pro .
we pre sev exa of rea - wor app in whi suc mod are nat .
sec 123 sho how the hie dir pro can be use to bui non hid mar mod the are hid mar mod in whi the car of the sta spa is unb .
we als dis ext to non hid mar tre and non pro con fre gra .
in sec 123 we con a die non hie bas on the pit - yor mod , sho tha it is nat in dom suc as nat lan pro in whi dat oft exh pow - law beh .
sec 123 dis the bet pro , an alt to the dir pro
whi yie spa fea rep .
we sho tha the cou of the chi res pro is a dis on spa bin mat kno as the ind bue pro .
we als con hie mod bas on the bet pro .
in sec 123 , we con som sem mod tha are bas on non hie .
fin , in sec 123 we pre an ove of som of the alg tha hav bee dev for pos inf in hie bay non mod .
in all of the cas , we use pra app to mot the con - str and to mak our pre con .
our app ran fro pro in bio to com vis to nat lan pro .
sev of the mod tha we pre pro sta - of - the - art per in the app dom .
thi wid ran of suc app ser not as to the gro pur of bay non met .
123 hie dir pro the dir pro ( dp ) is use in mod for whi a com of the mod is a dis ran var of unk car .
the can exa of suc a mod is the dp mix mod , whe the dis var is a clu ind .
the hie dir pro ( hdp ) is use in pro in whi the are mul gro of dat , whe the mod for eac gro of dat inc a dis var of unk car , and whe we wis to tie the var acr gro ( teh et al . , 123 ) .
for exa , the hdp mix mod all us to sha clu acr mul clu the bas bui blo of a hie dir pro is a rec in whi the bas mea g12 for a dir pro g dp ( , g12 ) is its a dra fro a dir pro : g12 dp ( , h ) .
thi rec con has the eec of con the ran mea g to pla its ato at the dis loc det by g12
the maj app of suc a con is to the set of con ind hie mod of gro dat .
mor for , con an ind col of dps , ( gj ) , one for eac of a cou set of gro and den on a com pro spa ( , ) .
the hie dir pro tie the ran mea pro by let the sha the bas mea and let thi bas mea be ran :
g12 | , h dp ( , h ) gj | , g12 dp ( , g12 )
for j j ,
whe j is the ind set .
thi con ind hie mod ind sha of ato amo the ran mea gj sin eac inh its set of ato fro the sam g12
to und the pre nat of the sha ind by the hdp it is hel to con rep aki to the sti - bre and chi res rep of the dp .
we con the rep in the nex thr sub bef tur to a dis of app of the hdp .
fig 123 : the hdp sti - bre con .
the lef pan dep a dra of , and the rem pan dep dra of 123 , 123 and 123 con on
not tha the rec con of the hdp can be gen to ar - bit hie in the obv way .
eac gj is giv a dp pri wit bas mea gpa ( j ) , whe pa ( j ) is the par ind of j in the hie .
as in the two - lev hie in eq .
( 123 ) , the set of ato at the top lev is sha thr the hie , whi the mul - lev hie all for a ric de - pen str on the wei of the ato .
sec 123 pre an ins of suc a hie in the set of pit - yor pro .
oth way to cou mul dir pro hav bee pro in the lit in par the dep dir pro of mac et al .
( 123 ) pro a gen for .
ho et al .
( 123 ) giv a com vie of the hdp and its pit - yor gen in ter of coa ope .
see teh et al .
( 123 ) and cha ? ? for ove .
123 sti - bre con in thi sec we dev a sti - bre con for the hdp .
thi rep - res pro a con rep of dra fro an hdp and it pro ins int the sha of ato acr mul dps .
we beg wit the sti - bre rep for the ran bas mea - sur g12 , whe g12 dp ( , h ) .
giv tha thi bas mea is dis acc to a dp , we hav ( set , 123 ish and jam , 123 , als see sec ? ? in cha ? ? ) :
for k = 123 ,
vk | bet ( 123 , )
k = vk k | h h .
123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 we ref to the joi dis on the inn seq ( 123 , 123 , .
. ) as the gem ( ) dis ( pit , 123 ) ( gem sta for gri , eng and
the ran mea gj are als dis ( con ) acc to a dp .
mor , the sup of eac gj is con wit the sup of g12
thu the sti - bre rep for gj is a rew sum of the ato
the pro red to ndi a rel bet the wei = ( 123 , 123 , .
. ) and j = ( j12 , j12 , .
let us int the wei vec as pro mea on the dis spa ( 123 , .
tak par ove int in - duc by par on , the den pro of the dp ( fer , 123 )
som alg the rea yie the fol exp con for j con - dit on :
j | , dp ( , ) .
vjk | , 123 , .
, k bet
jk = vjk
for k = 123 ,
fig 123 sho a sam dra of alo wit dra fro 123 , 123 and 123 giv fro eq .
( 123 ) we see tha the mea of k is e ( k ) = k12 ( 123 + ) k whi dec exp in k .
the mea for j is sim its bas mea ; thu e ( jk ) = e ( k ) = k12 ( 123 ) k as wel .
how the law of tot var sho tha jk has hig var tha k : var ( jk ) = e ( k ( 123 ) ) +va ( k ) > var ( k ) .
the hig var is ree in fig 123 by the spa nat of j rel
123 chi res fra the chi res pro ( crp ) des the mar pro of the dp in ter of a ran par obt fro a seq of cus sit at tab in a res .
the is an ana rep for the hdp whi we ref to as a chi res fra ( crf ) .
in a crf the met of a chi res is ext to a set of res , one for eac ind in j .
the cus in the jth res sit at tab in the sam man as the crp , and thi is don ind in the res
cou amo res is ach via a fra - wid men .
the rst cus to sit at a tab in a res cho a dis fro the men and all sub cus who sit at tha tab inh tha dis .
dis are cho wit pro pro to the num of tab ( fra - wid ) whi hav pre ser tha dis .
mor for , lab the ith cus in the jth res wit a ran var ji tha is dis acc to gj .
sim , let jt den a ran var cor to the tth tab in the jth res the var are dra ind and ide dis ( iid ) acc to g12
fin , the dis are iid var k dis acc to the bas mea h .
we cou the var as fol .
eac cus sit at one tab and eac tab ser one dis let cus i in res j sit at tab tji , and let tab t ser dis kjt .
the let ji =
let njt be the num of cus in res j sea aro tab t and bei ser dis k , let mjk be the num of tab in res j ser dis k , and let k be the num of uni dis ser in the ent fra .
we den mar cou wit dot e . g . , njk is the num of cus in res j ser dis k .
to sho tha the crf cap the mar pro of the hdp , we int out the ran mea gj and g12 in tur fro the hdp .
we sta by int out the ran mea gj; thi yie a set of con dis for the ji des by a pol urn sch :
ji | j12 , .
, j , i12 , , g12 mj ( cid : 123 )
a dra fro thi mix can be obt by dra fro the ter on the rig - han sid wit pro giv by the cor mix pro - tio .
if a ter in the rst sum is cho the the cus sit at an alr occ tab : we inc njt , set ji = jt and let tji = t for the cho t .
if the sec ter is cho the the cus sit at a new tab : g12 , set ji = we inc mj by one , set njm = 123 , dra tji = mj .
jt is dra iid fro g12 in the pol urn sch in eq .
( 123 ) , and thi is the onl ref to g12 in tha equ .
thu we can rea int out g12 as wel , obt a pol urn sch for the
not tha eac
j , t12 , , h k ( cid : 123 )
whe we hav pre for eas of not tha j = ( 123 , .
, |j | ) .
as pro , we see tha the kth dis is cho wit pro pro to the num of tab fra - wid tha pre ser tha dis ( mk ) .
the crf is use in und sca pro of the clu in - duc by an hdp .
in a dp the num of clu sca log ( an - ton , 123 ) .
thu mj o ( log nj ) whe mj and nj are res the
) = o ( log (
fro a dp , we hav tha k o ( log ( cid : 123 )
tot num of tab and cus in res j .
sin g12 is its a dra we ass tha the are j gro and tha the gro ( the cus in the die res ) hav rou the sam siz n , nj o ( n ) , we see tha k o ( log ) .
thu the num of clu sca dou log in the siz of eac gro , and log - cal in the num of gro .
the hdp thu exp a pri bel tha the num of clu gro ver slo in n .
if thi pri bel is ina for a giv pro , the are alt in par , in sec 123 . 123 we dis a hie mod tha yie pow - law sca .
+ log j + log log n
) = o ( log
j log n
j log nj
123 pos str of the hdp the chi res fra is obt by int out the ran mea gj and the int out g12
int out the ran mea gj yie a chi res for eac gro as wel as a seq of iid dra fro the bas mea g12 , whi are use rec in int out g12
hav obt the crf , it is of int to der con dis tha con on the crf thi not onl ill the com str of the hdp but it als pre the gro for a dis of inf alg ( see sec 123 ) , whe it can be use to ins the crf exp .
k ) k=1 , . . . , k , the tab tji at whi the ith cus sit , and the dis kjt ser at the tth tab .
as fun of the sta of the crf , we als hav the num of cus n = ( njt ) , the num of tab m = ( mjk ) , the cus lab = ( ji ) jt ) .
the rel bet the cus lab and the tab lab and the tab lab is giv as fol : con the dis of g12 con on the sta of the crf .
g12 is ind fro the res of the crf whe we con on the iid dra bec the res int wit g12 onl via the iid dra .
the pos thu fol fro the usu pos for a dp giv iid dra :
the sta of the crf con of the dis lab
and ji =
g12 | , h ,
are det giv
not tha val for m and the uni val and the cou amo con as fol ( usi the den pro of a dp ) :
, sin the are sim 123
a dra fro eq .
( 123 ) can be
123 , 123 , .
, k | , g12 ,
dir ( , m12 ,
123 | , h dp ( , h )
g12 = 123 ( cid : 123 )
123 we mak the sim ass tha h is a con dis so tha
dra fro h are uni .
if h is not con the add boo is req .
we see tha the pos for g12 is a mix of ato cor to the dis and an ind dra fro dp ( , h ) .
con on thi dra of g12 as wel as the sta of the crf , the pos - ors for the gj are ind .
in par , the pos for eac gj fol fro the usu pos for a dp , giv its bas mea g12 and iid dra j :
gj | , g12 , j dp
not tha nj and j .
mak use of the dec of g12 int g ( cid : 123 )
are sim the uni val and the cou amo the 123 and ato loc at the
, a dra fro eq .
( 123 ) can thu be con as fol :
j12 , j12 , .
, jk | , j dir ( 123 , 123 + nj1 , .
, k + njk )
j | , g12 dp ( 123 , g ( cid : 123 )
gj = j12 ( cid : 123 )
we see tha gj is a mix of ato at dp , whe the con par dep on 123
k and an ind dra fro a
the pos ove the ent hdp is obt by ave the con dis of g12 and gj ove the pos sta of the chi res fra giv .
thi der sho tha the pos for the hdp can be spl int a dis par and a con par .
the dis par con of ato at , wit die wei on the ato for eac dp .
the the uni val con par is a sep dra fro an hdp wit the sam hie str as the ori hdp and glo bas mea h , but wit alt con par .
the con par con of an inn ser of ato at loc dra iid fro h .
alt we hav pre thi pos rep for a two - lev hie , the rep ext imm to gen hie .
123 app of the hdp in thi sec we con sev app of the hdp .
the mod use the hdp at die dep in an ove bay hie .
in the rst exa the ran mea obt fro the hdp are use to gen dat dir , and in the sec and thi exa the ran mea gen lat
123 . 123 inf ret the gro of mod sea eng on the wor wid web has bro new att to a cla pro in the eld of inf ret ( ir ) how
sho a col of doc be rep so tha rel doc can be ret in res to a que ? ir res hav stu a wid var of rep and hav fou emp tha a rep kno as ter fre - inv doc fre , or tf - idf , yie rea hig - qua ran of doc ( sal and mcg , 123 ) .
the gen int is tha the rel of a doc to a que sho be pro to the fre of que ter it con ( ter fre ) , but tha que ter tha app in man doc sho be dow sin the are les inf ( inv doc fre ) .
cow ( 123 , 123 ) has sho tha the hdp pro sta jus - cat for the int beh tf - idf .
let xji den the ith wor in the jth doc in som cor of doc , whe the ran of xji is a dis voc .
con the fol sim mod for doc :
g12 | , h dp ( , h ) gj | , g12 dp ( , g12 )
xji | gj gj
for j j for i = 123 ,
whe h is the glo pro mea ove the voc and whe nj is the num of wor in the jth doc .
( not tha nj = nj whe the lat ref to the gen not int in sec 123 her and els we use nj as a con sho . ) in thi mod , gj is a dis mea ove the voc ass wit doc j and g12 is a dis mea ove the voc tha act to tie tog wor usa acr the cor .
the mod is pre as a gra mod in the lef pan of fig 123
fol mar pro for wor in the jth doc :
int out g12 and the gj as dis in sec 123 , we obt the
p12 ( ) = m ( cid : 123 )
j + p12 ( )
j is the ter fre num of occ of in doc j is the num of tab ser dis in res j in the crf ( not tha the nee for the spe pri not in thi cas is dri by the fac tha is a dis spa in thi exa .
in par , for eac the may be mul k suc tha k = .
the ter fre n ( cid : 123 ) = njk is the num of cus eat dis reg of whi men ent the pic .
sim , m ( cid : 123 )
j = ( cid : 123 )
if we mak the app tha the num of tab ser a par - ula dis in a par res is at mos one , the m ( cid : 123 ) is the doc fre num of doc con wor in the cor .
we now ran doc by com a rel sco r ( j , q ) the log pro
fig 123 : gra rep of hdp - bas mod .
lef : an hdp mod for inf ret .
cen : an hdp mix mod for hap pha .
rig : the hdp - lda mod for top or adm mod .
xji , . . . , njj , . . . , njj , . . . , njj of a que q und eac doc j :
r ( j , q ) = ( cid : 123 )
j + ) + log ( p12 ( ) )
in thi sco the rst ter is aki to a tf - idf sco , the sec ter is a nor - mal pen lar doc , and the thi ter can be ign as it doe not dep on doc ide j .
thu we see tha a sim app of the hdp pro a pri jus for the use of inv doc fre and doc len nor .
mor , in sma - sca exp - men , cow ( 123 , 123 ) fou tha thi sco imp upo sta - of - the - art rel sco ( rob et al . , 123 hie and kra , 123 ) .
123 . 123 mul - pop hap pha we now con a cla of app in whi the hdp pro a dis on lat par rat tha on the obs dat .
hap pha is an int pro in sta gen tha can be for as a mix mod ( ste et al . , 123 ) .
con a set of m bin mar alo a chr .
chr com in pai for hum , so let i12 and i12 den the bin - val vec of mar for a pai of chr for the ith ind .
the vec are ref to as hap , and the ele of the vec are ref to as all .
a gen xi is a vec whi rec the uno pai of all for eac mar tha is , the ass of all to chr is los .
the hap pha pro is to res hap ( whi are use for pre dis ass ) fro gen ( whi are rea ass exp whe hap
und sta ass fro pop gen , we can wri the
pro of the ith gen as a mix mod :
p ( xi ) = ( cid : 123 )
p ( i12 ) p ( i12 ) p ( xi | i12 , i12 ) ,
whe h is the set of hap in the pop and whe p ( xi | i12 , i12 ) ree the los of ord inf as wel as pos mea err .
giv tha the car of h is unk , thi pro is nat for as a dp mix mod pro whe a clu is a hap ( xin et al . ,
let us now con a mul - pop ver of the hap pha pro in whi the gen dat can be cla int ( say ) asi , eur and afr sub .
her it is nat to att to ide the hap in eac pop and to sha the hap amo pop .
thi can be
ach wit the fol hdp mix mod :
g12 | , h dp ( , h ) gj | , g12 dp ( , g12 )
ji1 , ji1 | gj xji | ji1 , ji1 fji , ji1
for eac pop j j for eac ind i = 123 ,
whe ji1 , ji1 den the pai of hap for the ith ind in the jth pop .
the mod is pre as a gra mod in the cen pan of fig 123
xin et al .
( 123 ) sho tha thi mod per eec in mul - pop hap pha , out met tha lum tog the mul pop or tre the sep .
123 . 123 top mod a top mod or mix mem mod is a gen of a nit mix mod in whi eac dat poi is ass wit mul dra fro a mix mod , not a sin dra ( ble et al . , 123 ero , 123 ) .
as we wil see , whi the dp is the app too to ext nit mix mod to the non set , the app too for non top mod is the hdp .
to mot the top mod for , con the pro of mod the wor occ in a set of new art ( e . g . , for the pur of cla fut art ) .
a sim clu met mig att to pla eac art in a sin clu .
but it wou see mor use to be abl to cro - cla art acc to top for exa , an art mig be mai abo ita foo , but it mig als ref to hea , his and the wea .
mor , as thi exa sug , it wou be use to be abl to ass num val to the deg to whi an art tre eac top .
top mod ach thi goa as fol .
den a top to be a pro dis acr a set of wor tak fro som voc w .
a doc is mod as a pro dis acr top .
in par , let us ass the fol gen mod for the wor in a doc .
fir cho a pro vec fro the k - dim sim , and the rep ( 123 ) sel one of the k top wit pro giv by the com of and ( 123 ) cho a wor fro the dis den by the sel top .
the vec thu enc the exp fra of wor in a doc tha are all to eac of the k top .
in gen a doc wil be ass wit mul
ano nat exa of thi kin of pro ari in sta gen - ics .
ass tha for eac ind in a pop we can ass the sta of eac of m mar , and rec tha the col of mar for a sin ind is ref to as a gen .
con a sit in whi k sub - pop whi hav hit rem sep are now tho mix ( i . e . , the mat pat are tha of a sin pop ) .
ind gen - typ wil now hav por tha ari fro the die sub
is ref to as adm .
we can ima gen a new adm gen - typ by xin a dis acr sub and the rep ( 123 ) cho a sub acc to and ( 123 ) cho the val of a mar ( an all ) fro the sub - spe dis on the all for tha mar .
thi for is ess iso to the doc mod for .
( the die is tha in the doc set the obs wor are gen ass to be exc , whe in the gen set eac mar has its own dis ove all ) .
to ful spe a top mod we req a dis for .
tak thi dis to be sym dir , we obt the lat dir all ( lda ) mod , dev by ble et al .
( 123 ) and pri et al .
( 123 ) as a mod for doc and adm , res .
thi mod has bee wid use not onl in the eld of inf ret and sta gen , but als in com vis , whe a top is a dis acr vis pri , and an ima is mod as a dis acr top ( fei - fei and
let us now tur to the pro of dev a bay non ver of lda in whi the num of top is all to be ope - end .
as we hav all to , thi req the hdp , not mer the dp .
to see thi , con the gen of a sin wor in a giv doc .
acc to lda , thi is gov by a nit mix mod , in whi one of k top is dra and the a wor is dra fro the cor top dis .
gen all of the wor in a sin doc req mul dra fro thi nit mix .
if we now con a die doc , we aga hav a nit mix , wit the sam mix com ( the top ) , but wit a die set of mix pro ( the doc - spe vec ) .
thu we hav mul nit mix mod .
in the non set the mus be lin so tha the sam top can app in die doc .
we are thu led to the fol mod , whi we ref to as hdp - lda :
g12 | , h dp ( , h ) gj | , g12 dp ( , g12 )
ji | gj gj xji | ji fji
for eac doc j j for eac wor i = 123 ,
whe xji is the ith wor in doc j , h is the pri dis ove top is the dis ove wor .
the mod is pre as a gra mod in the rig pan of fig 123
not tha the ato pre in the ran - dom dis g12 are sha amo the ran dis gj .
thu , as des , we hav a col of tie mix mod , one for eac doc .
top mod can be gen in a num of oth dir .
for exa - ple , in app to doc mod it is nat to ask tha top occ at mul lev of res .
thu , at a hig lev of res , we mig wis to obt top tha giv hig pro to wor tha occ thr the doc in a cor , whi at a low lev we mig wis to nd top tha are foc on wor tha occ in spe sub of the doc .
a bay non app to obt thi kin of abs hie - arc has bee pre by ble et al .
( 123 ) .
in the mod pre by the aut , top are arr int a tre , and a doc is mod as a pat dow the tre .
thi is ach by den the tre pro in ter of a lin set of chi res .
123 hid mar mod wit inn sta spa hid mar mod ( hmm ) are wid use to mod seq dat and tim ser dat ( rab , 123 ) .
an hmm is a dou - sto mar cha in whi a sta seq , 123 , 123 , .
, , is dra acc to a mar cha on a dis sta spa wit tra ker ( t , t+1 ) .
a cor seq of obs , x12 , x12 , .
, x , is dra con on the sta se - que , whe for all t the obs xt is con ind of the oth obs giv the sta t .
we let ft ( xt ) den the dis of xt con on the sta t; thi is ref to as the emi dis .
in thi sec we sho how to use bay non ide to obt an inn hmm hmm wit a cou inn sta spa ( bea et al . , 123 teh et al . , 123 ) .
the ide is sim in spi to the pas fro a nit mix mod to a dp mix mod .
how , as we sho , the app non too is the hdp , not the dp .
the res mod is thu ref to as the hie dir pro hid mar mod ( hdp - hmm ) .
we pre bot the hdp for and a sti - bre for in thi sec the lat is par hel in und the rel to nit hmm .
it is als wor not tha a chi res fra ( crf ) rep of the hdp - hmm can be dev , and ind bea et al .
( 123 ) pre a pre to the hdp - hmm tha was bas on an urn mod aki to the crf .
to und the nee for the hdp rat tha the dp , not rst tha a cla hmm spe a set of nit mix dis , one for eac val of the cur sta t .
ind , giv t , the obs xt+ is cho by rst pic a sta t+1 and the cho xt+ con on tha sta .
thu the tra pro ( t , t+1 ) pla the rol of a mix pro and the emi dis ft pla the rol of the mix com .
it is nat to con rep thi nit mix mod by a dp mix mod .
in so doi , how , we mus tak int acc the fac tha we obt a set of dp mix mod , one for eac val of the cur sta .
if the dp mix mod are not tie in som way , the the set of sta acc in a giv val of the cur sta wil be dis fro tho acc for som oth val of the cur sta .
we wou obt a bra str rat tha a cha str .
the sol to thi pro is str use the hdp to tie the dps .
mor for , let us con a col of ran tra ker ,
fig 123 : hdp hid mar mod .
( g : ) , dra fro an hdp : g12 | , h dp ( , h ) g | , g12 dp ( , g12 )
whe h is a bas mea on the pro spa ( , t ) .
as we sha see , the ran bas mea g12 all the tra out of eac sta to sha 123 be a pre ini sta .
the the sam set of nex sta .
let 123 = con dis of the seq of lat sta var 123 , .
, and obs var x12 , .
, x are :
t | t12 , gt1
xt | t ft
for t = 123 ,
a gra mod rep for the hdp - hmm is sho in fig 123
we hav den a pro mod con of an unc num of dps , whi may rai mea - the con .
the con can be dea wit , how , ess due to the fac tha the sam pat of the hdp - hmm onl eve enc a nit num of sta .
to see thi mor cle , and to und the rel of the hdp - hmm to the par hmm , it is hel to con a sti - bre rep of the hdp - hmm .
thi rep is obt dir fro the sti - bre rep of the
123 und hdp :
k | h h
| , dp ( , ) .
for l = 123 , 123 ,
for k = 123 ,
123 and the ato
k are sha acr g12 and the tra dis g
all sta vis by the hmm are dra fro the tra dis , the sta pos vis by the hmm wit pos pro ( giv g12 ) wil con onl of the ini sta 123 , .
rel to the par hmm , we see tha the tra pro fro sta
k is giv by k and the dis on the obs is giv by f thi rel to the par hmm can be see eve mor cle if we k wit the int k , for k = 123 , 123 , .
, , and if we int ide the sta int - val var zt to den the sta at tim t .
in par , if t = is the sta at tim t , we let zt tak on val k , and wri k ins of the hdp - hmm can now be exp as : zt | zt1 , zt1 xt | zt ,
wit pri on the par and tra pro giv by eq .
thi con sho exp tha the hdp - hmm can be int as an hmm wit a cou inn sta spa .
a dic wit the hdp - hmm as dis thu far is tha it ten to be poo at cap sta per it has a ten to cre red sta and rap swi amo the .
thi may not be pro for ap - pli in whi the sta are nui var and it is ove pre lik tha mat , but it can be pro for seg or par app in whi the sta are the obj of inf and whe sta per - sis is exp .
thi pro can be sol by giv spe tre to sel - tra .
in par , let g den the tra ker ass wit sta .
fox et al .
( 123 ) pro the fol alt den of g ( com to eq .
( 123 ) ) :
g | , , g12 , dp
whe is a poi mas at and whe is a par tha det the ext mas pla on a sel - tra .
to see in mor det how thi aec sta per , con the sti - bre wei ass wit one of the cou man sta k tha can be vis by the hmm .
the sti - bre is alt as fol ( com to eq .
( 123 ) ) : rep of g
| , , dp
fox et al .
( 123 ) fur pla a vag gam pri on + and a bet pri on / ( + ) .
the hyp of the dis all pri con of sta per .
see als bea et al .
( 123 ) , who dev a rel pri wit the fra of the hie urn sch .
123 app of the hdp - hmm in the fol sec we des a num of app and ext of the hdp - hmm .
an app tha we wil not dis but is wor men - ing is the app of hdp - hmm to the pro of mod rec hot and anc hap for sho seg of sin nuc pol - mor ( xin and soh , 123 ) .
123 . 123 spe dia spe rec has bee a maj app are for cla par hmm ( hua et al . , 123 ) .
in a typ app , sev doz sta are use , rou cor to the num of pho - lik seg in spe .
the obs xt are spe rep of spe ove sho tim sli .
in man app , how , the num of sta is mor fun par of the inf pro and it doe not suc to sim x an arb - tra val .
con an aud rec of a mee in whi the num of peo par in the mee is unk a pri .
the pro of spe dia is tha of seg the aud rec int tim int ass wit ind spe ( woo and hui , 123 ) .
her it is nat to con an hdp - hmm mod , whe a sta cor to an ind spe and the obs are aga sho - ter spe rep - tat .
pos inf in the hdp - hmm yie est of the spe con of eac spe voi , an est of the num of spe par - pat in the mee , and a dia of the aud str .
suc an app of the hdp - hmm has bee pre by fox et al .
( 123 ) , who sho tha the hdp - hmm app yie a sta - of - the - art dia met .
a not asp of the wor is tha the fou tha the spe tre of sel - tra dis in the pre sec was ess wit thi spe tre the hdp - hmm ten to rap swi amo red sta led to poo spe dia per .
123 . 123 wor seg as ano app of the hdp - hmm to spe , con the pro of seg an aud str int a seq of wor .
spe is sur con wit few obv bre bet wor and the pro of wor seg - men of ide coh seg of wor and the bou - ari in con spe non .
gol et al .
( 123 ) pro a sta app to wor seg bas upo the hdp - hmm .
the lat sta of the hmm cor to wor .
an hdp - hmm rat tha a par hmm is req for thi pro , sin the are an unb num of pot wor .
in the mod , an utt is vie as a seq of pho , 123 , 123 , .
the seq is mod by an hdp - hmm in whi wor are the lat sta .
a wor is its a seq of pho .
the mod spe is as fol .
fir , the num of wor n is dra fro a geo dis .
the a seq of n wor , 123 , 123 , .
, n , is dra fro an hdp - hmm :
g12 | , h dp ( , h ) g | , g12 dp ( , g12 )
i | i12 , gi1
for i = 123 ,
whe 123 g is a dra fro an ini sta dis .
eac g is the tra dis ove nex wor , giv the pre wor .
thi is den for eve pos wor , wit the set of all pos wor ( inc the emp wor 123 whi ser as an ini sta for the mar cha ) .
the bas mea h ove wor is a sim ind pho mod : the len of the wor , l 123 , is rst dra fro ano geo dis , the eac pho ri is dra ind fro a pri ove pho :
h ( = ( r12 , r12 , .
, rl ) ) = 123 ( 123 123 ) l12
whe h12 is a pro mea ove ind pho .
the pro of the obs utt is the a sum ove pro of seq of wor suc tha the con is 123 , 123 ,
gol et al .
( 123 ) hav sho tha thi hdp - hmm app lea
to sig imp in seg acc .
123 . 123 tre and gra a num of oth str pro obj are ame to a non - met tre bas on the hdp .
in thi sec we bri dis som rec dev whi go bey the cha - str hmm to con obj suc as tre and gra .
a hid mar tre ( hmt ) is a dir tre in whi the nod cor to sta , and in whi the pro of a sta dep ( sol ) on its uni
par in the tre .
to eac sta the is opt ass an obs , whe the pro of the obs is con ind of the oth obs giv the sta ( cho et al . , 123 ) .
we can gen the hdp - hmm to a hie dir pro hid mar tre ( hdp - hmt ) mod in whi the num of sta is unb .
thi is ach by a gen of the hdp - hmm mod in whi the tra - sit mat alo eac edg of the hmt is rep wit set of dra fro a dp ( one dra for eac row of the tra mat ) and the dps are tie wit the hdp .
thi mod has bee app to pro in ima pro ( den , sce rec ) in whi the hdp - hmt is use to mod cor - lat amo wav coe in mul mod of ima ( kiv et al . , 123 , b ) .
as a fur gen of the hdp - hmm , sev gro hav con non ver of pro gra ( joh et al . , 123 lia et al . , 123 fin et al . , 123 ) .
the gra con of col of rul , of the for a bc , whe thi tra fro a sym a to a pai of sym bc is mod pro .
whe the num of gra sym is unk a pri , it is nat to use the hdp to gen sym and to tie tog the mul occ of the sym in a par tre .
123 hie pit - yor pro as dis in cha ? ? , a var of alt to the dp hav bee ex - plo in the bay non lit .
the alt can pro a bet t to pri bel tha the dp .
it is the nat to con hi - era mod bas on the alt .
in thi sec we sha des one suc hie mod , the hie pit - yor ( hpy ) pro , whi is bas on the pit - yor pro ( als kno as the two - par poi - dir pro ) .
we bri des the pit - yor pro her sec ? ? in cha ? ? as wel as per et al .
( 123 ) , pit and yor ( 123 ) and ish - war and jam ( 123 ) pre fur mat on the pit - yor pro .
in sec 123 . 123 we des an app of the hpy pro to lan mod .
sec 123 . 123 pre a spa ext of the hpy pro and an app to ima seg .
123 pit - yor pro the pit - yor pro is a two - par gen of the dp , wit a dis - cou par 123 d < 123 and a con par > d .
whe d = 123 the pit - yor pro red to a dp wit con par .
we wri g py ( d , , h ) if g is a pit - yor pro wit the giv par and bas mea h .
the sti - bre con and the chi res - ran pro hav nat gen in the pit - yor pro .
a dra g
fro the pit - yor pro has the fol sti - bre con :
whe the ato
k are dra iid fro h , and the wei are obt as
vk | d , bet ( 123 d , + kd )
for k = 123 ,
k = vk
we ref to the joi dis ove 123 , 123 , .
as the gem ( d , ) dis , thi bei a two - par gen of the one - par gem ( ) ass - cia wit the dp .
sup tha h is a smo dis and let 123 , 123 , .
be iid dra fro g .
mar out g , the dis of i con on 123 , .
, i12 fol a gen of the pol urn sch :
i | 123 , .
, i12 , d , , h k ( cid : 123 )
+ i 123
+ + kd
+ i 123 h ,
t is the tth uni val amo 123 , .
, i12 , the bei nt occ t , and k suc uni val .
in the chi res ana , eac i is t cor to a tab , and cus i sit at tab t if i = the are two sal pro of thi gen chi res pro .
fir , the ric - get - ric pro of the ori chi res pro is pre , whi mea tha the are a sma num of lar tab .
sec , the are a lar num of sma tab sin the pro of occ new tab gro alo wit the num of occ tab , and the dis d dec the pro of new cus sit at sma tab .
whe 123 < d < 123 the pit - yor pro yie pow - law beh ( pit , 123 gol et al . , 123 teh , 123 , see als cha ? ? ) .
it is thi pow - law beh whi mak the pit - yor pro mor sui tha the dp for man app inv nat phe .
the pow - law nat of the pit - yor pro can be exp in sev way .
fir , und eq .
( 123 ) we hav e ( k ) o ( k12 / d ) if 123 < d < 123 , whi ind tha clu siz dec acc to a pow law .
sec , zip law can be der fro the chi res pro tha is , the pro of tab wit n cus sca as o ( n12 ) .
fin the chi res pro als yie hea law , whe the tot num of tab in a res wit n cus sca as o ( nd ) .
not tha the dis par d is the key par gov the pow - law beh .
the var pow law are ill in fig 123
fig 123 : pow - law beh of the pit - yor pro .
lef : e ( k ) vs .
mid : num of tab in res vs .
num of cus .
rig : num of tab vs .
num of cus at eac tab .
eac plo sho the res of 123 dra ( sma dot ) and the mea ( lar dot ) .
the log - log plo are wel app by str lin , ind pow law .
123 hie pit - yor pro the hie pit - yor ( hpy ) pro is den in the obv man :
g12 | , , h py ( , , h ) gj | d , , g12 py ( d , , g12 )
for j j ,
whe g12 is the com bas mea sha acr the die pit - yor pro gj , and is its giv a pit - yor pro pri .
sim to the hdp , thi hie con gen imm to a mul - lev
rec tha one of the use fac abo the hdp is tha it can be rep usi bot a sti - bre rep and a chi res fra rep .
it wou be of int to con gen of the ob - jec to the hpy pro .
as we sha see in the fol , the chi res fra can be rea gen to an hpy ana .
unf , how , the is no kno ana for for the sti - bre rep of the hpy rec tha in the chi res fra rep , eac gj cor - res to a res , dra ji gj cor to cus , tab t in jt g12 , and dis cor to dra res j cor to dra k h .
let njt be the num of cus in res j sea at tab t
and eat dis k , mjk be the num of tab in res j ser dis k , and k be the num of dis ser thr the fra .
the con dis giv by the chi res fra for the hpy pro are
ji | j12 , .
, j , i12 , , d , g12 mj ( cid : 123 ) j , t12 , , , h k ( cid : 123 )
+ + mjd + + k
whi is a nat gen of the crf for the hdp ( cf .
( 123 ) and
123 app of the hie pit - yor pro in thi sec we des an app of the hpy pro to lan mod - eli and ano app to ima seg .
123 . 123 lan mod sta mod of sen in a nat lan ( e . g .
eng ) are an in - dis com of man sys for pro lin dat , inc - ing spe rec , han rec and mac tra sys - tem ( man and sch , 123 ) .
in thi sec we des an app of the hie pit - yor pro in sta lan mod .
mos sta lan mod tre sen as dra fro mar mod - els of xed ord lar tha one .
tha is , the pro of a sen con of a seq of wor ( 123 , 123 , .
, ) is mod as
, ) =
p ( t | tn+ , .
, t12 ) ,
whe for sim n+1 , .
, 123 are spe sta - of - sen sym , and n 123 is one plu the ord of the mar mod .
suc mod are kno as n - gra mod .
in typ app n = 123 , cor to a sec - ord mar mod and a con con of jus the pre two wor .
in nat lan the siz of the voc typ con of mor tha 123 wor .
thi mea tha in a 123 - gra mod the num of par - ete is in exc of 123 , mak max lik est inf .
in fac a nav pri tre par cor to die con ind per bad as wel is imp to mod dep acr die con for a lan mod to be suc .
in the lan mod com suc dep are ach by a var of heu smo alg , whi com the cou ass wit die con - tex in var way ( che and goo , 123 ) .
it is als pos to tak a hie bay poi of vie on smo , and ind suc an app was con in a par set by mac and pet ( 123 ) .
how , wor occ in nat lan ten to fol
pow law , and a non mod suc as the hpy pro pro a mor nat pri for thi dom ( teh , 123 , b; gol et al . , 123 ) .
ind , the mos suc heu smo met are clo rel to an hpy mod .
giv a con u con of a seq of wor , let gu be the dis - but ove the nex wor fol the con u .
tha is , gu ( ) = p ( t = | tn+ , .
, t12 = u ) in eq .
we pla a pit - yor pri on gu , wit bas mea gpa ( u ) , whe pa ( u ) is the con wit the rst wor dro
gu | d|u , |u| , gpa ( u ) py ( d|u , |u| , gpa ( u ) ) .
the par of the pit - yor pro dep on the len of the con |u| .
we rec pla a pit - yor pri on gpa ( u ) , dro wor fro the fro of the con unt g , the dis ove nex wor giv the emp con .
fin we pla a pit - yor pri on g :
g | d12 , 123 , g12 py ( d12 , 123 , g12 ) ,
whe g12 is the uni dis ove the voc .
the str of thi hie pri ree the not tha mor rec wor in the con are mor inf in pre the nex wor .
teh ( 123 , b ) app the hpy lan mod to a 123 - mil wor cor , and fou tha it pro sta - of - the - art pre res , clo mat res usi int and mod kne - ney , two of the mos wid - use smo alg ( che and goo , 123 ) .
mor , the hpy lan mod has bee sho to out mod kne - ney in the con - tex of an app to dia tra ( hua and ren , 123 ) .
the res are uns , as teh ( 123 , b ) and gol et al .
( 123 ) sho tha int kne - ney can be der as an app to the crf rep of the hpy lan mod .
in par , int kne - ney ass tha the num of tab in eac res ser eac dis is at mos one .
thi is the sam app as in sec 123 . 123
123 . 123 ima seg mod bas on the pit - yor pro hav als had imp in the eld of ima pro , a eld tha sha wit the lan mod dom the fac tha pow law cha man of the sta wit the dom .
in par - tic , usi a dat of ima tha wer man seg and lab by hum ( oli and tor , 123 ) , sud and jor ( 123 ) hav sho tha bot the seg siz and the lab occ ( e . g . , sky , gra ) fol - low lon - tai dis tha are wel cap by the pit - yor pro .
thi sug con mod in whi the mar dis at eac sit in an ima are gov by pit - yor pro .
mor , to sha inf acr a col of ima it is nat to con hpy pri .
in thi sec we des a mod bas on suc an hpy pri ( sud
and jor , 123 ) .
our foc is the pro of ima seg , whe the obs dat are a col of ima ( an ima is a col of gra - sca or col val at eac poi in a two - dim gri ) and the pro is to out a par of eac ima int seg ( a seg is a coh reg of the ima , as den by hum lab ) .
let us con a gen mod for ima tex and col , sim at rst in two way : ( 123 ) we foc on a sin ima and ( 123 ) we neg the iss of spa dep wit the ima .
thu , for now we foc sim on obt pit - yor mar sta for seg siz and seg lab wit a sin ima .
let us sup tha the ima is rep as a lar col of sit , whe a sit is a loc reg in the ima ( oft ref to as a pix or a sup - pix ) .
let gem ( d , ) be a dra fro the two - par gem dis .
for eac sit i , let ti den the seg ass of sit i , whe ti dis ( ) are ind dra fro .
giv a lar num of sit of equ siz , the tot are ass to seg t wil be rou t , and seg siz wil fol pit - yor sta .
we als ass a lab to eac seg , aga usi a two - par gem dis .
in par , let gem ( , ) be a dis acr lab .
for eac seg t we lab the seg by dra kt dis ( ) ind - den .
we als let k den an app mod for lab typ k , whe k are dra fro som pri dis h .
put thi tog , the lab ass to sit i is den kti .
the vis tex and col at sit i are the gen by a dra fro the dis
to obt a spa dep pit - yor pro , sud and jor ( 123 ) ada an ide of dua et al .
( 123 ) , who use a lat col of gau pro to den a spa dep set of dra fro a dir - let pro .
in par , to eac ind t we ass a zer - mea gau pro , ut .
at a giv sit i , we thu hav an inn col of gau ran var , ( uti ) t=1 , . . . , .
by an app cho of thr for thi inn seq of gau var , it is pos to mim a dra fro the dis ( by bas the sel on the rst gau var in the se - que tha is les tha its thr ) .
ind , for a sin sit , thi is sim a cha - of - var pro fro a col of bet ran var to a col of gau ran var .
the gau pro fra cou - ple the cho of seg at nea sit via the cov fun .
fig 123 giv an exa of thr dra fro thi mod , sho the und ran - dom dis ( tru to fou val ) , the cor col of dra fro gau pro ( aga tru ) , and the res seg
thi fra app rea to mul ima by cou the lab k acr mul ima .
let j j dis and app mod ind the ima in the col , we ass a seg dis j wit eac ima and ass a set of gau pro wit eac ima to des
123 par is gen a mul par enc the pro of var
dis - val tex and col des .
fig 123 : dra fro dep pit - yor pro .
top : the ran pro - por j .
mid : dra fro gau pro , one for eac ent in j .
bot : res seg .
the seg of tha ima .
the ima seg pro can be cas as pos inf in thi hpy - bas mod .
giv an ima rep as a col of tex and col des , we com the max a pos set of seg for the sit .
sud and jor ( 123 ) hav sho tha thi pro yie a sta - of - the - art uns ima seg alg .
123 the bet pro and the ind bue pro -
the dp mix mod emb the ass tha the dat can be par - tio or clu int dis cla .
thi ass is mad par cle in the chi res rep , whe the tab at whi a dat poi sit ind the cla ( the mix com ) to whi it is ass .
if we rep the res as a bin mat in whi the row are the dat poi and the col are the tab , we obt a mat wit a sin one in eac row and all oth ele equ to zer .
a die ass tha is nat in man set is tha obj can be
des in ter of a col of bin fea or att .
for exa , we mig des a set of ani wit fea suc as diu / noc , avi / non - avi , col - blo / war - blo , etc .
for a bin mat in whi the row are the obj and the col are the fea , we obt a mat in whi the are mul one in eac row .
we wil ref to suc a rep as a fea rep .
a fea rep can of cou be con int a set of clu if des : if the are k bin fea , we can pla eac obj int one of 123 clu .
in so doi , how , we los the abi to dis bet cla tha hav man fea in com and cla tha hav no fea in com .
als , if k is lar , it may be inf to con mod wit 123 par .
usi the fea rep , we mig hop to con mod tha use on the ord of k par to des 123 cla .
in thi sec we dis a bay non app to fea rep .
in ess , we rep the dir / mul pro tha und the dir pro wit a col of bet / ber dra .
thi is ach via the bet pro , a sto pro who rea pro a cou inn col of coi - tos pro .
we als dis som oth rep of the bet pro tha par tho for the dp .
in par we des a sti - bre con as wel as an ana of the chi res pro kno as the ind bue pro .
123 the bet pro and the ber pro the bet pro is an ins of a gen cla of sto pro kno as com ran mea ( kin , 123 , see als cha ? ? ) .
the key pro of com ran mea is tha the ran var obt by eva a ran mea on dis sub of the pro spa are mut ind .
mor , dra fro a com ran mea are dis ( up to a xed det com ) .
thu we can rep suc a dra as a wei col of ato on som pro spa , as we do for the dp .
( not , how , tha the dp is not a com ran mea bec the wei are con to sum to one for the dp; thu , the ind ass doe not hol for the dp .
the dp can be obt by nor a com ran mea ( spe the gam pro
app of the bet pro in bay non sta hav mai foc on its use as a mod for ran haz fun ( hjo , 123 , see als cha ? ? ) .
in thi cas , the pro spa is the rea lin and it is the cum int of the sam pat tha is of int ( yie a ran , non ste fun ) .
in the app of the bet pro to fea rep , on the oth han , it is the rea its tha is of int and the und spa is no lon res to be the rea lin .
fol thi and jor ( 123 ) , let us thu con a gen pro - bil spa ( , ) end wit a nit bas mea b12 ( not tha b12 is not a pro mea it doe not nec int to one ) .
int we
pat and the red cur is the cor cum int ( cid : 123 ) x
fig 123 : ( a ) a dra b bp ( 123 , u ( 123 , 123 ) ) .
the set of blu spi is the sam 123 sam fro bep ( b ) , one sam per row .
not tha a sin sam is a set of uni - wei ato .
wis to par int sma reg , pla ato int the reg acc - ing to b12 and ass a wei to eac ato , whe the wei is a dra fro a bet dis .
a sim par occ in the den of the dp , but in tha cas the agg pro of dir ran var imm yie a con set of mar and thu an eas app to kol the .
bec the sum of two bet ran var is not a bet ran var , the con is som les str in the bet pro
the gen mac of com ran pro dea wit thi iss in an ele way .
con rst the cas in whi b12 is abs con and den the lev mea on the pro spa ( 123 , 123 ) in the fol
( d , d ) = c12 ( 123 ) c12 ( d ) ,
whe c > 123 is a con par .
now sam fro a non poi pro wit the lev mea as its rat mea .
thi yie a set of ato at loc ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) .
den a rea of the bet
is an ato at k wit k its mas in b .
we den thi sto pro as b bp ( c , b12 ) .
fig 123 ( a ) pro an exa of a dra fro bp ( 123 , u ( 123 , 123 ) ) , whe u ( 123 , 123 ) is the uni dis on ( 123 , 123 ) .
we obt a cou inn set of ato fro thi con bec the lev mea in eq .
( 123 ) is - nit wit inn mas .
ind , con
123 par the pro spa ( 123 , 123 ) int str hav equ int und thi den .
the str hav the sam nit rat und the poi pro , and the are an inn num of suc str .
not als tha the use of a lim for of the bet den imp tha mos of the ato are ass wit ver sma wei .
cam the sho tha the sum of the
wei is nit wit pro one , sin ( cid : 123 ) ( d , d ) < .
if b12 con ato , the the are tre sep .
in par , den the mea of the kth ato as qk ( ass to lie in ( 123 , 123 ) ) .
the rea b nec con tha ato , wit the cor wei k den as an ind dra fro bet ( cqk , c ( 123 qk ) ) .
the ove rea b is a sum of the wei ato com fro the con com and the dis com of b12
let us now den a ber pro bep ( b ) wit an ato bas mea b as a sto pro who rea are col of ato of uni mas on .
ato can onl app at the loc of ato of b .
whe or not an ato app is det by ind tos of a coi , whe the pro of suc is the cor wei of the ato in b .
aft n dra fro bep ( b ) we can ll a bin mat tha has n row and an inn num of col ( cor to the ato of b arr in som ord ) .
mos of the ent of the mat are zer whi a sma ( nit ) num of the ent are equ to one .
fig 123 ( b ) pro an exa .
the bet pro and the ber pro are con .
con the
b | c , b12 bp ( c , b12 ) zi | b bep ( b ) ,
for i = 123 ,
whe z12 , .
, zn are con ind giv b .
the res pos dis is its a bet pro , wit upd par :
b | z12 , .
, zn , c , b12 bp
c + n ,
a a + ( cid : 123 )
thi for can be vie as an ana of sta nit - dim bet / ber upd .
ind , giv a pri bet ( a , b ) , the sta upd tak the for i zi .
( 123 ) , c pla the rol of a + b and
i zi and b b + n ( cid : 123 )
cb1 is ana to a .
123 the ind bue pro rec tha the chi res pro can be obt by int out the dir pro and con the res dis ove par .
in the oth dir , the dir pro is the ran mea tha is gua - ant ( by exc and de fin the ) to und the chi res pro .
in thi sec we dis the ana of the rel for the bet pro .
we beg by den a sto pro kno as the ind bue pro ( ibp ) .
the ibp was ori den dir as a dis on ( equ cla of ) bin mat by gri and gha ( 123 ) and gha - man et al .
( 123 ) .
the ibp is an inn exc dis on the equ cla , thu it is of int to dis the ran mea tha mus und the ibp acc to de fin the .
thi and jor ( 123 ) sho tha the und mea is the bet pro tha is , the ibp is obt by int ove the bet pro b in the hie in eq .
the ibp is den as fol .
con an ind bue wit a cou - inn num of dis and cus tha arr in seq in the bue lin .
let z den a bin - val mat in whi the row are cus and the col are the dis , and whe z nk = 123 if cus n sam dis k .
the rst cus sam poi ( ) dis , whe = b12 ( ) is the tot mas of b12
a sub cus n sam dis k wit pro mk mk is the num of cus who hav pre sam dis k; tha is , nk ber ( mk c+n ) .
hav sam fro the dis pre sam by oth cus , cus n the goe on to sam an add num of new dis det by a dra fro a poi ( to der the ibp fro the bet pro , con rst the dis eq .
( 123 ) for n = 123 in thi cas the bas mea is sim b12
dra fro b bp ( b12 ) and the dra z12 bep ( b ) yie ato who loc are dis - tri acc to a poi pro wit rat b12 the num of suc ato is poi ( ) .
now con the pos dis aft z12 , .
, zn1 hav bee obs .
the upd bas mea is i=1 zi .
tre the dis com and the con com sep .
the dis i=1 zi , can be reo as a sum ove the uni val of the ato let mk den the num of tim the kth ato app in one of the pre zi .
we thu obt dra k bet ( ( c+n ) qk , ( c+n ) ( 123 ) ) , whe qk = mk c+n and thu ( und ber sam ) thi ato app in zn wit pro mk c+n
fro the con - c+n ) new ato .
equ ato wit dis , and row of z wit dra zn , we hav obt exa the pro spe of the ibp .
the exp val of k is mk
c+n b12 , we gen poi (
c+n ) dis .
c+n b12 + 123
123 sti - bre con the sti - bre rep of the dp is an ele con cha - iza of the dp as a dis ran mea ( cha ? ? ) .
thi con can be vie in ter of a met of bre o len of a sti , and it can als be int in ter of a siz - bia ord of the ato .
thi sec , we con ana rep for the bet pro .
dra b bp ( c , b12 ) fro the bet pro are dis wit pro one , whi giv hop tha suc rep exi .
ind , we wil sho tha the are two sti - bre con of b , one bas on a siz - bia ord of the ato ( thi and jor , 123 ) , and one bas on a sti - bre rep kno as the inv lev mea ( wol and ick , 123 ) .
the siz - bia ord of thi and jor ( 123 ) fol str - war fro the dis in sec 123 .
rec tha the ind bue pro is den via a seq of dra fro ber pro .
for eac dra , a poi num of new ato are gen , and the cor wei in the bas mea b hav a bet dis .
thi yie the fol tru
kn | c , b12 poi (
nk | c bet ( 123 , c + n 123 ) nk | b12 b12 / .
for n = 123 , .
, for k = 123 ,
it can be sho tha thi siz - bia con bn con to b wit pro - abi one .
the exp tot wei con at ste n is whi the exp tot wei rem , in b bn , is c+n .
the exp tot wei rem dec to zer as n , but at a rel slo rat .
not als tha we are not gua tha ato con at lat sta of the con wil hav sma wei siz of the wei nee not be in dec ord .
the sti - bre con of teh et al .
( 123 ) can be der fro the inv lev mea alg of wol and ick ( 123 ) .
thi alg sta fro the lev mea of the bet pro , and gen a seq of wei of dec siz usi a non tra of a one - dim poi pro to one wit uni rat .
in gen thi app doe not lea to clo for for the wei inv of the inc bet fun nee to be com num .
how for the one - par bet pro ( whe c = 123 ) we do obt a sim clo for :
for k = 123 ,
vk | bet ( 123 , ) k | b12 b12 / .
aga bk b as k , but in thi cas the exp wei dec exp to zer .
fur , the wei are gen in str dec ord , so we are gua to gen the lar wei rst .
fig 123 : sti - bre con for the dp and the one - par bp .
the len i are the wei for the dp and the len i are the wei for the bp .
the sti - bre con for the one - par bet pro has an int con to the sti - bre con for the dp .
in par - tic , bot con use the sam bet - dis bre vk; the die is tha for the dp we use the len of the sti jus bro o as the wei whi for the bet pro we use the rem len of the sti .
thi is dep gra in fig 123
123 hie bet pro rec the con of the hie dir pro : a set of dir pro are cou via a ran bas mea .
a sim con can be car out in the cas of the bet pro : let the com bas mea for a set of bet pro be dra fro an und bet pro ( thi and jor , 123 ) .
und thi hie bay non mod , the fea rep tha are cho for one gro wil be rel to the fea rep tha are use for oth gro .
we acc den a hie bet pro ( hbp ) as fol :
b12 | , a bp ( , a ) bj | c , b12 bp ( c , b12 ) zji | bj bep ( bj )
for j j for i = 123 ,
whe j is the set of gro and the are nj ind in gro j .
the hyp c con the deg of cou amo the gro : val of c yie rea bj tha are clo to b12 and thu a gre deg of ove amo the ato cho in the die gro .
as an exa of the app of the hbp , thi and jor ( 123 ) con the pro of doc cla , whe the are |j | gro of doc and whe the goa is to cla a new doc int one of the gro .
in thi cas , zji is a bin vec tha rep the pre or abs in the ith doc of eac of the wor in the voc .
the hbp yie a for of reg in whi the gro - spe wor pro
123 are shr tow eac oth .
thi can be com to sta lap smo , in whi wor pro are shr tow a xed ref poi .
suc a ref poi can be dic to cal whe the are rar wor in a cor , and thi and jor ( 123 ) sho emp tha the hbp yie bet pre per tha lap smo .
123 app of the bet pro in the fol sec we des a num of app of the bet pro to hie bay fea mod .
not tha thi is a rat die cla of app tha the tra cla of app of the bet pro to ran haz fun .
123 . 123 spa lat var mod lat var mod pla an ess rol in man for of sta ana - ysi .
man lat var mod tak the for of a reg on a lat vec exa inc pri com ana , fac ana and in - dep com ana .
par the int in the reg lit - atu in spa reg mod , one can als con spa lat var mod , whe eac obs is a fun of a rel sma num of la - ten var .
the bet pro pro a nat way of con suc mod .
ind , und the bet pro we can wor wit mod tha den a cou - inn num of lat var , wit a sma , nit num of var bei act ( i . e . , non - zer ) in any rea .
con a set of n obs dat vec , x12 , .
we use a bet pro to mod a set of lat fea , z12 , .
, zn , whe we cap int amo the com of the vec as fol :
b | c , b12 bp ( c , b12 ) zi | b bep ( b )
for i = 123 ,
as we hav see , rea of bet and ber pro can be exp as wei sum of ato :
we vie k as par fea k , whi zi den the fea tha are act for ite i .
in par , z ik = 123 if fea k is act for ite i .
the dat poi xi is mod as fol :
yik | h h
xi | zi , , yi f ( k , yik ) k : z
for k = 123 ,
whe yik is the val of fea k if it is act for ite i , and the dis - dep onl on the act fea , the val , and the
not tha thi app den a lat var mod wit an inn num of spa lat var , but for eac dat ite onl a nit num of lat var are act .
the app wou oft be use in a pre set in whi the lat var are int out , but if the spa pat is of int per se , it is als pos to com a pos dis ove the lat var .
obs of the lin com ( cid : 123 )
the are sev spe exa of thi spa lat var mod in the lit .
one exa is an ind com ana mod wit an inn num of spa lat com ( kno and gha , 123 teh et al . , 123 ) , whe the lat var are rea - val and xi is a noi iky .
ano exa is the noi - or mod of woo et al .
( 123 ) , whe the lat var are bin and are int as pre or abs of dis , whi the obs xi are bin vec ind pre or abs of sym .
123 . 123 rel mod the bet pro has als bee app to the mod of rel dat ( als kno as dya dat ) .
in the rel set , dat are rel amo pai of obj ( get and tas , 123 ) ; exa inc sim jud bet two obj , pro - pro int , use cho amo a set of opt , and rat of pro by cus .
we rst con the cas in whi the is a sin set of obj and rel are den amo pai of obj in tha set .
for , den an obs as a rel xij bet obj i and j in a col of n obj .
eac obj is mod usi a set of lat fea as in eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
the obs rel xij bet obj i and j the has a con dis tha is dep onl on the fea act in obj i and j .
for exa , nav and gri ( 123 ) mod sub sim jud bet obj jk; not tha thi is a wei sum of fea act in bot obj .
chu et al .
( 123 ) mod hig - thr pro - pro int scr whe the obs bin - ing ani of pro i and j is rel to the num of ove fea jk , wit eac fea int as a pot pro com con - sis of pro con the fea .
gor et al .
( 123 ) pro a non - par eli by asp cho mod whe the pro of a use cho obj i ove obj j is mod as pro to a wei sum , jk ) , acr fea act for obj i tha are not act for obj j .
not tha in the exa , the par of the mod , k , are the ato of the bet pro .
i and j as nor dis wit mea ( cid : 123 )
rel dat inv sep col of obj can be mod wit the bet pro as wel .
mee et al .
( 123 ) mod mov rat , whe the col of obj are mov and use , and the rel dat con of
rat of mov by use .
the tas is to pre the rat of mov not yet rat by use , usi the pre to rec new mov to use .
the tas are cal rec sys or col lte .
mee et al .
( 123 ) pro a fea mod whe mov and use are mod usi sep ibp .
let z be the bin mat of mov fea and y the mat of use fea .
the rat of mov i by use j is mod as jl .
not tha thi dya mod can be rep usi two ind bet pro , sin the is a par kl for eac com of fea in the two ibp .
the que of wha ran mea und thi mod is an int one .
nor dis wit mea ( cid : 123 )
123 sem mod the non pri int in pre sec can be com wit mor tra nit - dim pri , as wel as hie of suc pri .
in the res sem mod , the obj of inf may be the nit - dim par , wit the non com tre as a nui par to be int out .
in oth cas , the nit - dim par are to be int out and asp of the non com are the inf foc .
in thi sec we des two suc sem mod bas on the hdp .
the rst mod cou the sti - bre rep - tat of the hdp wit a gau hie , whi the oth is bas on the chi res fra rep of the hdp .
123 hie dps wit ran eec an imp cha of the hdp is tha the sam ato app in dif - fer dps , all clu to be sha acr the die gro .
the hie - arc dp wit ran eec ( hdp ) mod of kim and smy ( 123 ) gen the hdp by all ato in die dps to die fro eac oth to bet cap gro - spe of clu par .
thi mod is bas on the sti - bre rep for hdp .
we beg wit the sta rep for the com ran bas mea g12 dp ( , h ) :
k | h h
for k = 123 ,
for eac gro j j , the wei and ato for the gro - spe gj die fro g12 in the fol way :
j | dp ( , )
for j j for k = 123 ,
whe t is a dis cen at ; for exa , t mig be a nor dis wit mea .
kim and smy ( 123 ) use the hdp mod to mod bum in fun - tio mag res ima ( fmr ) dat .
fmr ana rep are of hig met act in the bra tha are cor wit ext sti - uli in an att to dis the fun of loc bra reg .
suc are of act oft sho up as bum in fmr ima , and eac bum can be mod wel usi a nor den .
an fmr ima the con of mul bum and can be mod wit a dp mix .
eac ind bra mig hav sli die str and mig rea die to the sam sti , whi eac fmr mac has die cha .
the hdp mod nat cap suc var whi sha sta str acr ind - vid and mac .
123 ana of den and tra dps in thi sec we des ano app to int gro - spe pa - ram wit the dp fra .
the com bas mea g12 is sti giv a dp pri as in eq .
( 123 ) , whi the gro - spe ran mea are den
gj | h12 dp ( , h12 )
for j j .
in the par cas in whi h and t are nor dis wit xed var , thi mod has bee ter the ana of den ( and ) mod by tom and esc ( 123 ) , who use it for sha sta str amo mul den est pro .
sud et al .
( 123 ) cal the mod giv by eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) a tra dp .
the tra dp is ver sim to an hdp , the die bei tha the ato in g12 are rep by dis par by the ato .
if the dis are smo the mea gj wil not sha ato as in the hdp .
ins eac ato in gj is dra fro t wit pro k .
ide an ato of gj wit k , the chi res fra rep - tio for the hdp can be gen to the tra dp .
we hav cus ( dra fro gj ) goi int res ( gj ) and sit aro tab ( dra
fro h12 ) , whi tab are ser dis ( ato in g12 ) fro a fra - wid men ( g12 ) .
in the hdp the act dis ser at the die tab tha ord the sam dis are ide .
for the tra dp the dis tha are ser at die tab ord the sam dis on the men can tak on dis
sud et al .
( 123 ) use the tra dp as a mod for vis sce ana tha can sim seg , det and rec obj wit the sce .
eac ima is rst pre int a set of low - lev des of loc ima app , and eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) are com wit a mix mod for the des :
ji | gj gj xji | ji fji
for j j and i = 123 ,
whe xji is one of nj ima des in ima j and fji ove ima des par by ji .
is a dis
the chi res fra rep of the tra dp tra - lat to a hie rep of vis sce , wit sce con of mul obj and obj con of des of loc ima app - anc .
to see thi , not tha cus ( xji ) are clu int tab ( obj ins ) , and tab are ser dis fro a glo men ( eac obj in - sta bel to an obj cat ) .
the cou be mul tab in the sam res ser var ( die sea ) on a giv dis fro the glo men .
thi cor to the fac tha the cou be mul in - sta of the sam obj cat in a sin vis sce , wit eac ins bei in a die loc or hav die pos or lig con ( thu yie tra ver of an obj cat tem ) .
inf for hie bay non -
in thi sec we dis alg asp of inf for the hie bay non mod tha we hav dis in ear sec .
our tre wil be bri and sel in par , we foc on rel sim alg tha hel to con bas met and pro a sen of som of the opt tha are ava .
an und the of thi sec is tha the var mat rep ava for non mod inc sti - bre rep , urn mod and tru be com in var way to yie a wid ran of pos alg imp -
whi we foc on sam - bas inf met thr thi sec - tio , we als not tha the is a gro lit on var met for in - fer in hie bay non mod exa inc lia et al .
( 123 ) ; sud and jor ( 123 ) and teh et al .
( 123 ) .
inf for hie dir pro
we beg by con pos inf for a sim hdp mix mod .
in thi mod , the ran mea gj are dra fro an hdp mod acc to eq .
( 123 ) , and thi hdp pri is com as fol :
ji | gj gj xji | ji fji
for i = 123 ,
whe the ith obs in the jth gro is den xji and whe thi obs - vat is dra fro a dis fji ind by ji .
the lat par ji is dra fro gj and can be vie as ind the mix com ass wit the dat poi xji .
we sha ass tha h is con to f for sim .
non mod can be tre by ada tec fro the dp mix lit ( cf .
nea , 123 ) .
teh et al .
( 123 ) pre sam alg for the hdp mix mod bas on bot the crf rep and the sti - bre rep .
in the fol sec we des the crf - bas sam .
we the tur to an alt sam tha is bas on the pos rep of the hdp des in sec 123 .
123 . 123 chi res fra sam rec our not for the crf rep of the hdp .
cus i in res j is ass wit an iid dra fro gj and sit at tab tji .
tab t in res j is ass wit an iid dra fro g12 and ser a dis kjt fro a fra - wid men .
dis k is ass wit an iid dra fro h .
if h is an abs con mea the eac suc dis is uni wit pro one .
the are njt cus in res j sit at tab t and eat dis k , and the are mjk tab in res j ser dis k .
giv thi set , we des a gib sam in whi the tab and dis ass var are ite sam con on the sta of all oth var .
the var con of ( tji ) jj , i=1 , . . . , nj and ( kjt ) jj , t=1 , . . . , mj .
the par ji are int out ana ( rec our ass of con - gac ) .
con the ass of cus i in res j to a tab tji .
to res tji we mak use of exc and ima cus i bei the las cus to ent res j .
the cus can sit at an alr occ tab , can sit at a new tab and be ser an exi dis , or can sit at a new tab and be ser a new dis .
the pro of the eve are :
wit pro nji tji = t tji = tne , kjt = k tji = tne , kjt = kne wit pro
whe tne and kne den a new tab and new dis , res , and whe sup ji den cou in whi cus i in res j is rem fro the crf ( if thi emp a tab we als rem tha tab fro the crf alo wit the dis ser on it ) .
the fra ter are the con pri giv by the crf in eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) , and fk ( ( xji ) ) is den usi the fol gen not :
whe d is an arb ind set , whe dk = ( j ( cid : 123 ) i ( cid : 123 ) : kj ( cid : 123 ) t j ( cid : 123 ) i ( cid : 123 ) = k ) den the set of ind of dat ite cur ass wit dis k , and whe h ( ) and f ( ) den the den of h and f res .
in par , fk ( ( xji ) ) is the mar con pro of the sin dat poi xji in clu k , giv all of the oth dat poi cur ass to clu k .
the gib upd for the dis kjt ser at tab t in res j is der
sim .
the pro of the rel eve in thi cas are : fk ( ( xji : tji = t ) ) fkn ( ( xji : tji = t ) ) .
wit pro mjt
kne wit pro
whi the com cos of the gib upd is gen dom by the com of the mar con pro fk ( ) , the num of pos eve tha can occ at one gib ste is one plu the tot num of tab or dis in all res tha are anc of j , and thi num can be lar in dee or wid hie .
a dra of the crf sam is tha it cou sam in the var res ( sin all dps are int out ) .
thi cou mak der a crf sam for cer mod ( e . g .
the hdp - hmm ) dic .
an alt is to con sam tha use a mix rep dps in sti - bre rep and som in crp rep the dec the res ( teh et al . , 123 ) .
the crf - bas sam can be eas ext to arb hie .
it can als be ext to the hie pit - yor pro dis in
123 . 123 pos rep sam in sec 123 we sho tha the pos of the hdp con of a dis par cor to mix com ass wit dat and a con - uou par cor to com not ass wit dat .
thi rep - sen can be use to dev a sam whi rep onl the dis par exp .
in par , ref to eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) , the pos
rep sam mai onl the wei and ( j ) jj .
( the ato k ) k=1 , . . . , k can be int out in the con set . ) we als mak use of clu ind var zji , den so tha ji = the sam ite bet two pha : the sam of the clu ind ( zji ) , and the sam of the wei and ( j ) .
the sam of the clu ind is a sim var on the gib upd in the crf sam des in sec 123 . 123
in par , we den the fol gib con :
( i . e . , zji = kjt
wit pro jkf ( ( xji ) )
kne wit pro j12 ( ( xji ) ) .
if a new com kne is cho , the cor ato is ins in the sam .
spe , the wei cor to thi new ato can be gen as fol :
for j j
v12 | bet ( , 123 ) k+1 ) = ( 123 , 123 ( 123 v12 ) )
vj | , 123 , v12 bet ( 123 , 123 ( 123 v12 ) ) j12 , new
j k+1 ) = ( j12 , j12 ( 123 vj ) ) .
fin we set zji = k + 123 and inc k .
the sec pha res the wei ( j ) jj and con on the clu ind ( zji ) .
the app is to rst int out the ran mea , lea a crp rep as in sec 123 , the the wei ( j ) jj and can be sam con on the sta of the crf usi eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
bec we are con on ( zji ) , and cus wit die val of zji can be ass to the sam tab , eac res eec get spl int ind sub - res , one for eac val of k .
als the rel dir ass sam in teh et al .
( 123 ) . ) let njk be the num of obs in gro j ass to com k , and let mjk be the ran num of tab in a sub - res wit njk cus and con par k .
the ( mjk ) are mut ind and thu a dra for eac of the can be sim usi the crp .
we can now sam the and ( j ) usi eq .
( 123 ) and eq
inf for hdp hid mar mod
the pos rep sam of sec 123 . 123 can als be use to der a gib sam for the hdp - hmm .
con the for of the hdp - hmm giv in eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) whe we mak use of a seq of lat ind var z12 , .
we aga ass tha h is con to f .
not tha the pos of the hdp pri for the mod ( giv z12 , .
, z ) can be dec int a dis par con of k ato ( cor to the k sta cur vis by z12 , .
, z ) , as wel as a con par con of unu ato .
the wei on the k ato ( equ the tra
pro amo the k sta cur use by the hdp - hmm ) can be con fro a crf rep of the hdp :
( 123 , 123 , .
, k ) dir ( , m12 ,
for j = 123 ,
( j12 , j12 , .
, jk ) dir ( 123 , 123 + nj1 , .
, k + njk ) whe njk is the num of tra fro sta j to sta k ( equ the num of cus eat dis k in res j ) , whi mk is the num of tab ser dis k in the crf rep of the hdp .
the con pro for the gib upd of zt are as fol : wit pro zt1 kne wit pro zt1
the thr fac on the rig - han sid are the pro of tra int the cur sta , the pro of tra out of the cur sta , and the con pro of the cur obs xt res .
the zt+ fac ari bec tra fro the new sta kne hav not bee obs bef so we nee to use the con pri mea .
the wei and tra pro j can be upd as for the pos rep sam for pla hdp .
thi sim gib sam can con ver slo due to str dep - den amo the lat sta ( sco , 123 ) .
to obt a fas alg we wou lik to upd the lat sta in a blo via the for - bac al - gor for hmm the tra for of thi alg can , how , be app dir to the hdp - hmm sin the are an inn num of pos - ble sta .
the sol is to lim the num of sta to a nit num so tha the for - bac alg bec fea .
fox et al .
( 123 ) pro - pos doi thi via a tru of the sti - bre pro ( cf .
ish and jam , 123 ) , whi van gae et al .
( 123 ) pro a sli sam app whi ada lim the num of sta to a nit num ( nea , 123
inf for bet pro
in thi sec we des a gib sam for the bet pro lat var mod des in sec 123 . 123
thi sam is bas on the sti - bre rep of the bet pro .
rec tha the mod is den in ter of a set of fea wei ( k ) k=1 , . . . , and the ato ( fea par ) ( k ) k=1 , . . . , .
mor , cor to eac dat ite xi , we hav a set of bin fea act ( z and lat fea val ( yik ) k=1 , . . . , .
the obs dat ite xi dep on the con dis den the mod are giv in eq .
( 123 ) and ik = 123 k ) = k .
gib sam in thi mod is str - eq .
( 123 ) , whe p ( z for exc for a few dic whi we des bel alo wit the
the mai dic wit a gib sam is tha the are an inn num of ran var tha nee to be sam .
to cir thi pro , teh et al .
( 123 ) pro to use sli sam ( nea , 123 wal , 123 ) to ada tru the rep to a nit num of fea .
con an aux var s wit con dis :
s| z , ( k ) k=1 , . . . , uni
whe the sup in the ran of s is the sma fea wei k amo the cur act fea .
con on the cur sta of the oth var a new val for s can eas be sam .
con on s , fea for whi k < s are for to be ina sin mak the act wou mak s lie out its ran .
thi mea tha we onl nee to upd the nit num of fea for whi k > s .
thi typ inc all the act fea , alo wit a sma num of ina fea ( nee for the sam to exp the use of new fea ) .
a rel iss con the rep of the mod wit the nit mem of the com .
usi the aux var s it is cle tha we nee onl rep fea 123 , .
, k , whe k is suc tha k+1 < s; tha is , the mod is tru aft fea k .
as the val of s and the fea wei cha ove the cou of gib sam thi val of k cha as wel .
if k is dec we sim del the las few fea , whi if k is inc we sam the var k , k and yik cor to the new fea fro the con dis giv the cur sta of the rep
the nal iss is the pro of sam the fea wei 123 , .
unl the cas of dps , it is eas in thi cas to wor wit the wei dir ins of the sti - bre var vk .
in par , teh et al .
( 123 ) sho tha the joi pro for the wei is :
, k ) = i ( 123 k 123 123 ) k
whe i ( ) = 123 if the pre is tru and 123 oth .
for k = 123 , .
, k 123 the con pro of k giv the oth var can be com fro eq .
( 123 ) and the con pro of z nk giv k .
for k we als hav to con on z ik = 123 for all i and k > k; thi pro can be com usi the lev - khi rep for the bet pro ( teh et al . , 123 ) .
inf for hie bet pro
in thi sec we pre an inf alg for the hie bet pro - ces giv in eq .
the obs dat are the var zji the bin vec den ( in the lan of doc cla ) the pre or ab - sen of wor in doc i of gro j .
the und mea spa is
int as the voc .
( eac ele in is ref to as a wor ) .
let 123 , .
, k den the wor tha are obs amo the doc .
tha is , the are the suc tha zji ( ) = 123 for som i and j .
bec bot the bet and ber pro are com ran mea - sur , the pos ove b12 and bj for j j dec int a dis par ove the obs voc ( 123 , .
, k ) and a con par ove \ ( 123 , .
the dis par fur fac ove eac obs wor k .
thu it is suc to foc sep on inf for eac obs wor and for the con par cor to uno wor .
for a xed k , let a = a ( k ) , 123 = b12 ( k ) , j = bj ( k ) and zji = zji ( k ) .
the sli of the hbp cor to k has the fol joi dis :
123 | c12 , a bet ( c12 , c12 ( 123 a ) ) j | cj , 123 bet ( cj1 , cj ( 123 123 ) )
zji | j ber ( j )
for j j for i = 123 ,
not tha the pri ove 123 is imp if a is con and a = 123
thi bet hie is a spe cas of the nit dir hie of eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) and it is str to use the pos rep sam des in sec 123 to sam fro the pos giv the obs zji .
thi and jor ( 123 ) des an alt whe the j are int out and rej sam is use to sam fro 123
fin , we con the con par of the pos .
thi com is not sim the pri , sin we hav to con on the fac tha no wor in \ ( 123 , .
, k ) hav bee obs amo the doc .
thi and jor ( 123 ) sol thi pro by not tha the pos fac ove the lev ind by n in the siz - bia ord in eq .
foc on eac lev sep , the der a pos dis on the num of ato in eac lev , com thi wit the pos ove the lev - spe wei to obt the ove pos .
our goa in thi cha has bee to pla hie mod in the sam cen rol in bay non tha it pla in oth are of bay sta .
ind , one of the pri arg for hie mod in par sta is tha it pro con ove the lar num of deg of fre tha ari , for exa , in ran eec mod .
suc an arg hol a for in the non set .
non pri gen inv hyp , som of whi are nit - dim and som of whi are inn - dim .
sha the nit - dim par amo mul dra fro suc a pri is a nat mod str tha mim cla hie mod con .
our con , how , tha thi for of con is far too lim , and tha the inn - dim par sho gen als be sha .
we hav
mad thi poi pri by con exa in app pro dom .
in dom suc as com vis , inf ret and gen , non mod pro nat des of the com obj und stu in par , it is nat to des an ima , a doc or a gen as the rea of a sto pro .
now , in con col of suc obj it is nat to wan to sha det of the rea amo the obj in the col wis to sha par of obj , fea , rec phr and mot .
thi can be ach by cou mul dra fro a non pri via the inn - dim par .
ano adv of hie mod in the cla set is tha it exp the rep of dis for tha can be con .
for exa , hea - tai dis can be obt by pla a pri on the sca par of lig - tai dis .
alt thi poi has bee lit exp to dat in the non set , we exp tha it wil be a fru dir for fur res .
in par , the are str com - put con tha lim the non rep , and hie con oer one way for .
ind , as we hav see , com ori con suc as urn mod and sti - bre rep oft car ove nat to hie non mod .
fin , it is wor not a dic tha is rai by hie mod - eli .
alt bay hie hel to con hyp , the do not rem the nee to spe dis for hyp .
ind , whe hyp are pla hig in a hie it can be dic to giv ope mea to suc hyp .
one app to cop wit thi iss inv con the mar pro tha are ind by a non pri .
for exa , we arg tha the mar ind by a pit - yor pri exh lon tai tha pro a goo mat to the pow - law beh fou in tex dat and ima sta .
fur res is nee to dev thi kin of und for a wid ran of hie bay non mod and pro dom .
we wou lik to tha dav ble , jan gas , sam ger , tom gri - ths , kur mil , vin rao and eri sud for the hel com on the man .
