we ent an tic ent ure ich aps the ate nal ons ned by ral cal ity ion rts nto a gle , ent bal ate tem for the nal ata ace .
our thm can be ied to any set of rts , ach of ich ces a low - nal cal ion of a igh - nal put .
ike ent rts to ate uch els by ing eir ive ons ( 123 , 123 ) , our thm is ked ter ing and ies an ent ver to ost - ess the ned els .
the ost - ing has no cal ima and the ize of the sys - tem it ust lve les ith the ber of cal els her han the ber of nal ata nts , ing it ore ent han del - ree hms uch as map ( 123 ) or lle ( 123 ) .
123 ion : cal vs .
bal ity ion ond ity ing , an ant oal of sed ing is to ver com - act , ive ons of igh - nal ata .
if the ata lie on a oth low nal old , hen an ent ing is the tes nal to hat man - old .
the ess of ing uch tes is ity ion .
ear ity ion ods uch as pal ent sis and tor aly - sis are asy to ain but not ure the ure of ved lds .
res of ese ple sed els ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ave een sed to orm cal ity ion , and can ide ood ity els for ved lds , but ely uch res not do ity ion .
hey do not ibe a gle , her - ent low - nal ate tem for the ata nce ere is no ure for the cal tes of ach ent to ree .
eis et al ( 123 ) tly sed a del ich rms bal ion of cal ate ems in a ure of tor ers ( mfa ) .
eir del is ned by max - ing the ood of the ata , ith an nal nal lty erm to age the nal tes of the tor ers to ree .
ile eir del can ade off ing the ata and ing ent cal ate ems , it res a ser ven ade - off ter , ing is ite ent ( ugh ( 123 ) bes an ved ain - ing thm for a ore ned del ) , and it has ite ous cal ima ems ( ods ike lle ( 123 ) or map ( 123 ) ave to be sed for ion ) .
in his per we ibe a vel , tic way to ign the den ons sed by ach ent of a ure of ity ers nto a gle bal ion of the ata out ace .
ven an ady ned ure , the ent is ved by ing an ver to a rix ted rom the nal ons of the ure nts .
our hod is ent , ple to ent , and has no cal ima in its ion nor any ing tes or ing les .
123 the lly ear ion thm
ose we ave a set of ata nts ven by the ows of
- nal ace , ich we ume are led rom a
we ate the old tes ing ges nal ing ace .
ose lso hat we ave ady ned , or ave een th cer ces a%$ men - ven , a ure of " nal nal on& ( ' for ata int ) ' as ell as a ty* ' ing how ble he# is .
ese sfy /
cal ity ers .
he# th ers ion of
and can be ned , for ple , ing a ing ork in a ure of rts , or the ior ies in a tic ork .
ice hat the old tes and nal ons eed not ave the ame ber of ons .
ven the ata , nal ons , and ies , our thm lly gns the ous den ons nto a gle bal ate tem .
two key eas ate the hod .
rst , to use a vex ost ion ose que mum is
ned at the red bal tes .
ond , to ict the bal tes $ and es* end on the ata
eby ing the ure of the ure del to ize and uce the ive ize of the ion lem .
in ect , her han ing ith ual ata nts , we ork ith rge ups of nts ing to lar els .
' nly ugh the cal ns&
to ese to ain its ess at the bal tes .
the nal bal is ned by ing the ses ing the ies as hts :
ven an put we rst ize the bal tes in rms of* $ and hen ies a ear ion , ach cal del ers its nal es& $ and set 123 is the k th try of & = , rej .
for ess , we ill tej the ain 3lk $ and hej now ene the esi ( 123 ) mes a tem of ear ons ( 123 ) ith edi
is the k th umn of 123 $ , e nto a gle new exj
$ , and e th row 123 and own 123
is a ias .
his ess is bed in ure 123
to ify our ons , we ave zed the is an ble ing rom
ure 123 : ing bal tes rom ata via ity - ted cal tes .
is ear in ach
$ and the own 123
is hly non - ear nce it nds on the pli - ion of ies and nal tes ich are in urn non - rly ted to
the key ion , ich we ave zed by re - ing ing een the cal ons and the bal tes ' and the ges the ata ' we now der 123
' ove , is hat the $ .
lly , ver , the ing een the = .
for his we is vex 123
ate ing a vex as ell , and ere is a que mum hat can be ted tly ing a ety of ods .
his is ill rue if we lso ave ble vex nts ase ere the ost and nts are oth tic is rly ing nce we
ice hat nce
ugh the nce ure of the ure del .
ing to ome ven ost ion
is ear 123
in lar ose
his ves :
ing the ost and nts , and let
can use an ver to nd the 123
is the ace tor .
the ces
are lly ned rom the and ize the ial ies ong hem .
the ion to the
ned ion ove is ven by the est zed ors
low , we ate a ost ion sed on the lly ear ing ( lle ) lgo - thm of eis and aul ( 123 ) .
we all the ing thm lly ear ina - ion ( llc ) .
the dea of lle is to rve the ame lly ear ips een
in lar the mns 123
are ven by ese zed ors .
we ify for ach int
' and eir rts the nal ata nts ' and hen ize
ect to the nts /
the hts are 123
ith ect to and can be ved for tly ing ned ast res ( nce ing for
the hts ize the cal ies ing the ata nts
nge to ize the ame ost
to eir urs , nce to rve ese ips ong the tes but ith ect to
is ant to ons and ons of
in der to eak ese ies we rce the ing nts :
is a tor of 123 s .
for his ice , the ost ion and nts ove ome :
, and les as
ith ost and int ces
3in the ual ase ere the ber of urs is ger han the ity of the ata , ple ion of the orm of the hts nce ain kes hem que .
as own sly , the ion to his lem is ven by the est zed hat are nal to the tor is the est zed tor , ing to an lue of 123
nce the ion to the lem is
- , we eed to nd ors
to sfy
ely ,
llc ent thm :
of the zed lue tem
ven by hes
ote hat the dge ize of the ces
, ute cal ear ion hts
est zed ors ead .
, ing a cal on& for ach el# and ach ata int
ain or ive a pre - ned ure of cal ity ers .
ply his ure to orm the ixi thh $ and ate ind the ors ing to the est 123 be a rix ith mns med by hes nd to th row 123 as ent 123 urn the bal old tes as $ ich les ith the ber of nts and ons of the cal .
as a ult , ing for the ons but not ith the ber of ata nts + ent hts is uch ore ent han the nal lle ion ( or ose .
in ect , we of map ) ich res ing an lue tem of dge ize + ave ged the ure of cal els to pse rge ups of nts her and ked nly ith ose ups her han the nal ata nts .
ice ver hat ill res ing the urs of the nal the ion of the hts in the rse ase .
ata nts , ich les as ion ith llc lso lds a ure of ess tor ers ver the bal
123 st ors .
$ and tor ing 123 th tor zer ing ean 123 , ith the # , we can fer the *p$ and the ior ans ven any bal tes $ ver the ent ace of ach tor zer .
if our nal cal ity duc - $ , we can now fer the igh nal ean ers lso rts ing ata int ich nds to the bal tes
his ows us to orm op - ons ike ion and ion ing the bal ate tem .
his is the hod we sed to fer the ges in res 123 and 123 in the ext ion .
ose zed ors we eek
123 tal lts ing res of tor ers the ent ion we ave bed is ble to any ure of cal men - ity ers .
in our nts , we ave sed the ost sic uch del : a ure th tor zer in the ure bes a oba -
of tor ers ( mfa ) ( 123 ) .
the # tic ear ing rom a ent le&
the del mes hat the ata old is lly ear and it is his cal ure hat is red by ach tor zer .
the non - ity in the ata old is led by ing ple tor ers her , ach ing a lly ear ion .
to the ata ith ive ian ise .
fas are ned in an sed way by ing the nal log ood of the ved ata , and ter ion is lly one ing the em 123
3in our nts , we zed the ers by ing the ans rom the bal ari - nce of the ata and ing the ors to all dom ues .
we lso ied the tor ers to are the ame cal ise nce ugh his is not ial to the ess .
ure 123 : llc on the s rve ( a ) .
ere are 123 tor ers in the ure ( b ) , ach ith 123 ent ons .
ach isk nts one of hem ith the two ack nes ing the tor ngs .
ter ent by llc ( c ) , the rve is lly ed; it is lso ble to ely ign the nal ata ace els ( d ) .
ure 123 : ing the oil rve .
we ted 123 isy nts rom the rve .
hen we t an mfa ith 123 nts ith 123 ent ion ach ( a ) , but ned hem in a 23d ace ( b ) .
we sed 123 urs to con - uct ach ata int .
$ ned on the ata
th cal ion of
as the ity .
th tor zer ted
$ , a mfa ned nly
th tor zer ted ) as he#
to ize ood not arn a bal ate tem for the old hat is ent oss ery tor zer .
nce his is a ect del on ich to ply , ile we use the
nce ere is no int ing the ous den es& tic ent .
lly , we use the ean of& ior ity hat he#
we ate llc on two tic toy ems to ive ome ion out how it rks .
the rst lem is the s rve ven in ure 123 ( a ) .
an mfa ned on 123 nts led mly rom the old ith ded ise ( b ) is ble to del the ear ure of the rve lly , ver the nal tes of the tor ers are not ned rly .
we ied llc to the cal ons and ned hem in a 23d ace ( c ) .
hen ing for cal hts , we sed 123 urs to uct ach ata int .
we see hat llc has lly led the s rve nto the 23d ace .
her , ven the ate rms ced by llc , we can ely ign the ent ces of the fas ( d ) .
his is one by ing ons in the ous ent ces ich get med to the ame ion in the bal ace .
to ize the cal ges of ing ons nto a ace of her ity han the cal tes sed by ach del , we lso ned a mfa on ata led rom a oil rve , as own in ure 123 ( a ) .
the oil is a cle ith a not in 23d .
as ure 123 ( b ) ows , llc cts ese els nto a ing of cal ogy ful to the nal ata .
we ied llc to fas ned on ets of eal ges ved to ome rom a lex old ith few ees of dom .
we ied ace ges of a gle son der ing ose and ion ges and ten its rom the ist ase .
ter ing the fas , we ied llc to ign the els .
the ace els ere ned nto a 23d ace as own in ure 123
the rst ion ars to ibe
ure 123 : a map of ons of the ces hen the bal tes are ied .
urs ibe the ood of the tes .
ote hat ome ons und the dge of the map are not ood use the del is ing rom the ing ges to ons of low ood .
a mfa ith 123 nts and 123 ent ons ach is sed .
it is ned on 123 ges
are ted ing 123 urs .
ges in ose , ile the ond bes ges in ion .
the git els ere ned nto a 23d ace .
ure 123 ( top ) ows aps of ons of the its .
the rst ion ars to ibe the ant of ach git , the ond the ess of ach git , and the ird the ive zes of the per to wer ops .
ure 123 ( tom ) ows how llc can hly ate een any two its .
in lar , the rst row tes een eft and ght ing its , the ond een fat and hin its , the ird een ick and hin ine kes , and the rth een ing a ger tom oop and ger top oop .
123 ion and ons ous ork on ear ity ion has lly zed her a ara - ric ach , ich tly cts a ( mes tic ) ing een the igh - nal and low - nal ces , or a ric ach ich ely nds low - nal ges ing to igh - nal ata nts but out tic els or den les .
red to the bal ion del ( 123 ) , the est ric ach to urs , our thm can be ood as ost ion , in ich the ent ces are ted ter hey ave een t to ata .
by ing the ata ing and ion ems we ain ncy and oid cal ima in the ion ase .
her , nce we are ust ing ood hen ing the nal ure to ata , we can use a ole nge of own ues to ape cal ima , and ove ncy in the rst ase as ell .
on the ric ide , our ach can be red to two ent hms , lle
to its ent ace , the nal ted del ill lso ibe a ( tic ) ing rom the ole ata ace to the ted ing ace .
our ent thm ves pon cal ing or ity els by ing eir tus to ull bal ity ion hms out ing any odi - ons to eir ing res or ost ons .
for ple , ing res of tor ers ( fas ) as a est ase , we how how our ent hod can low a del sly ted nly for ity ion to do lex ons on igh nal ata uch as ion and ion .
and ( 123 ) has tly sed an ach , lar to urs , hat tes cal ara - ric els to ain a lly lid ear ing ion .
ike llc , his ing hod nes a tic ost ion and nds the mal ion di - tly and tly .
ver , ing is sed on a ost ion uch ser in rit to the nal bal ion del and it tes one cal del red on ach ing int , so its ing is the ame as hat of lle and map .
in ple , nds hod can be ded to ork ith wer cal els and our ent ure can be ied ing the ing ost her han the lle ost we ave ued ere .
tic ent res zes a ful but ten ked eta - ion of cal ure els .
her han ing the put of uch ems to be a gle ity , uch as a ity ate or a ert - ted ion , it is ble to iew hem as rks ich ert igh - nal uts nto a tor of nal tes rom ach del , ied by ies .
as we ave own , his iew can ead to ent and ful hms ich low ate cal els to arn ent bal ons .
we ank rey ton for ion and ing ons , dan rey and ann cun for ing eir ata ets , and the ers for ful nts .
