we how ite ood ace ing is ble for a set of ely and sly led ace ges .
our set is 123 , 123 ace ges , ned by ing a ace der to ely alf a ion ned ews im - ges .
his set is ore tic han ual ace cog - ion ets , use it ins ces red in the ild in a ety of ons ith ect to the cam - era , ing a ety of ons , and der ina - ion of ely ing lor .
ach ace age is ted ith a set of mes , lly ted rom the as - ted ion .
any , but not all uch ets ain the
we ter ace ges in ate ant co - tes .
we use a ing ure to eak igu - ies in ing and ify tly led ces .
a ing ure hen ies nts of mes hat re - fer to the ame ual .
the ing ion can be sed to bel ces in ews ges or to ize ews res by als ent .
an ive iew of our ure is as a ess hat ans up isy sed ata .
we ate how to use opy res to ate uch res .
it is ard to ain ous ets of ges , ith hed ons .
les ude : ons of eum ial ( 123 ) ; the rel ion of es; any deo ith und or sed ng; ges ted rom the web ith eir ing web es; or ned
ing lly sed ata is a ely tud - ied eme in ion rch .
age ons may lly and rly ely be ked ith rds , ven ugh the rds are not ked to the ons in the set lly ( 123 , 123 ) .
for ple , els sed und tes and re - ons may be ned rom a set of cle ges
ere one ver ies ere in the age the rcy - cle ies ( for ces , see ( 123 , 123 ) ; for als in tic ges and in deo , see ( 123 , 123 ) ; for a nge of cts , see ( 123 ) ) .
in his per , we how hat ces and mes can be ked in an ous set , ite ors and ies in per ame ion , in ace ion and in nce .
ace ion is ell ied , and not be yed bly in the ace ble .
rly ace ion is one in ( 123 , 123 ) and is wed in ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
our lem is tly ent rom ace ion , in hat it is ore ant to ify ant tes ich can be sed to ish een ces , ven for als not ted in the set han to ify the ces .
as a ult , we cus on ing the pca / lda hod - ogy , her han on ing a lti - ass ier .
our ent ork is a ary sor to eal rld ace ion ery : ing rge and tic ets of led ata for ion .
we can age ast ork by ing it to ine hat res ght be ful for ing lar ces .
the ral ach ves ing sly led ata ems to ate ant tes
( ion 123 ) .
we hen use a ion of - ans to ate
sly led ces to one of eir els ( ion 123 ) .
nce his is one , we ean up the ers by ing ata ems far rom the ean , and re - ate ant oor - tes ( ion 123 ) .
lly , we rge ers sed on ial ies ( ion 123 ) .
we how ive and ive lts in ion 123
we ave ted a set ing of ely alf a ion ews res and ons rom hoo ews ver a iod of hly two ars .
ces : ing the ace tor of ( 123 ) we act 123 , 123 ace ges ( ize 123 or ger ith ent ace de - ion res and zed to 123 els ) .
nce ese res ere ken in the ild her han der xed
ame ies ave the ong ils hat cur in atu - ral age ems .
we ect hat ace ges hly low the ame ion .
we ave eds to hou - nds of ges of a few als ( e . g .
ent ush ) , and a rge ber of als who ear nly a few mes or in nly one ure .
one cts eal ons to ave his rty .
for ple , in ort ity cam - ras a few ple , ity rds , or ine aff ght be een ten , but the ity of ple uld ear fre - tly .
ing how ion ems orm der uch a ion is ant .
the eer ume of ble ata is ary .
we ave ply ced the ber of ace ges we eal ith by ing a ace tor hat is sed to tal ces and by ing hat ces be rge and ify rly .
ven so , we ave a set hat is ble to , or ger han , the est ble lab ets and is uch her in ent .
ing nel pca and ear nts for a set his ize res ial ues ( ion 123 ) .
ore ing ges , we lly ify all ces to a cal ose .
ive ort tor nes are ned as ure ors ( ers of the eft and ght yes , ers of the uth , and the tip of the ose ) ing 123 and ked ces .
we use the ric lur of ( 123 ) ied to ale hes as the res for our svm .
a new ace is ted by ing ach svm ver the age ith a eak ior on ion for ach ure .
we ute an fne ion ned by the ast res olu - ion een mal uts of ach svm and cal ure ons .
we hen orm ent ent to nd the fne ion ich est aps ted nts to cal ure ons .
ach age is hen ied to a mon ose and ned a ore sed on the sum of its ure tor ses .
ger ion res ate ter ure tec - ion and ore ter ion .
we ter our set by ing ges ith oor ion res and are eft ith 123 , 123 ace ges .
ach ace is lly ped to a ion ing the yes , ose and uth to ate cts of und on ion .
the rgb xel ues rom ach ped ace are ted nto a tor and sed rom ere on .
ant sis we orm nel pal nts sis ( pca ) to uce the ity of our ata and ear imi - ant sis ( lda ) to ect ata nto a ace hat is ted for the ion ask .
nel pal nts sis : nel pca ( 123 ) ses a nel ion to tly ute a nci - pal ent sis in a igh - nal ure ace ,
ure 123 : top row ows ace tor lts , tom row ows ges ned by the ace ier ith ion ore own ter ( ger res ate ter ica - ion nce ) .
the ace ier ses an svm to ect ure nts on ach ace .
ent ent is hen sed to nd the est fne ion to map ure nts to cal ons .
ory ons , hey ent a oad nge of ndi - als , ose , ion and ion ons .
in - als lso nge ver ime , ich has een own to per ion in ( 123 ) .
our ace ion set is ore ied han any her to ate .
mes : we act a con of per mes rom all the ons by ing two or ore zed rds wed by a ent nse erb ( ( 123 ) ) .
rds are ied as rbs by rst ing a ist of cal les to ent nse lar rms , and hen ing ese to a ase of own rbs ( net ( 123 ) ) .
his con is hed to ach ion .
ach ace ted in an age is ted ith ery ame ted rom the ted ion ( e . g .
our job is to bel ach ace tor nse ith the ect ame ( if one sts ) .
ale : we ain 123 , 123 rge and ble ace tor ses .
we ect ace ges hat not be ied ily , ing 123 , 123
lly , we ate on ges ted ith 123 or wer mes , ing 123 , 123
123 ive ies nce res ted in the ion ure are ent ith nce of yed ace ion ems ( e . g . , see ( 123 ) ) .
his sts hat lab ets ack ant ena .
our set ers rom cal ace ion ets in a ber of ant ays .
ose , ion and ion ary ely .
the ace tor nds not to ect ral ews of ces , but ( ure 123 ) we ten ter the ame ace ted ith dly ent red ght and in a oad nge of ex - ons .
les and hes are mon .
ere are igs , ges of ces on ers , ces in eso - ion and kit res .
ite ten ere are lti - ple ies of the ame ure ( his is due to the way ews res are red , her han a ing lem ) or ple res of the ame ual in lar ngu - ons .
lly , ome als are ked oss ime .
ent rge w .
ush kes a ate - ent in the ose den ile ary of nse ald eld oks on , uly 123 , 123
eld aid the ted tes uld ase hic phs of the ead ons of dam ein to ove hey ere led by can ops .
oto by rry own -
ish tor sam des and his art - ner ess ate let ive at the don ere of the oad to ion , tem - ber 123 , 123
the lms ars tom nks as a ago hit man who has a ate fam - ily ife and co - ars aul man and ude law .
ers / dan ung
ent nia gov .
ray vis ( ews - web tes ) ads can hal - ger ill mon by 123 age nts ugh 123 ent of ers are ill nde - ded , ing to a oll sed ber 123 , 123 by the lic icy ute of cal - nia .
vis is own ing to ers ter his ate ith mon in los les , on oct .
( jim men / ers )
rld ber one ton itt of aus - lia its a urn to las ssu of ile at the pan pen nis ips in kyo ber 123 , 123
ers / iko
man del dia fer ave rth to a aby boy by ian ion ary 123 , 123 , her man aid .
the aby is the rst ild for oth hif - fer , 123 , and her and , ish lm pro - cer hew ghn , who was at her ide for the rth .
fer is een on the ger - man ion how bet it . . . ? ! ass . . . ? ! ) in eig , on ary 123 , 123
( dra ler / ers ) us ent rge w .
ush ( l ) kes re - rks ile ary of ate lin pow - ell ( r ) ens ore ing the us der - hip nst hiv / ids , sis and ria act of 123 at the ent of ate in ton , dc .
the ve - ear lan is ned to elp ent and eat ids , lly in ore han a zen can and ean ons ( afp / uke zza )
ure 123 : ven an put age and an ted ion ( ges ove and ons to the ght of ach age ) , our tem lly cts ces ( ite xes ) in the age and ble ame ngs ( old ) .
we use a ing ure to ild els of nce for ach ame and hen lly bel ach of the ted ces ith a ame if one sts .
ese tic els are own in xes low the ces .
ple ces may be ted and ple mes may be ted , ing we ust ine who is who ( e . g . , the ure of dia fer ) .
ted to the put ace by ome ear map .
ker - nel pca has een own to orm ter han pca at ace ion ( 123 ) .
nel pca is med as ows : ute a nel rix , k , ere is the lue of the nel ion ing ( we use a ian nel ) .
ter the nel rix in ure ace ( by ing off age row , age umn and ing on age ent ues ) .
ute an osi - ion of k , and ect nto the zed ors of
ear ant sis : lda has een own to ork ell for ace ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) use it ses ass ion to nd a set of nts hat ush ans of ent ses way rom ach her .
123 rom ion our set is too rge to do pca tly as the nel rix , k ill be of ize nxn , ere n is the the num - ber of ges in the set , and lve ely age ons .
ore , we ead use an ap - ion to ate the ors of k .
ete sky ion ( icd ( 123 ) ) can be sed to lcu - ate an ion to k ith a und on the ima - ion ror , but ves ing all n ges for ach col - umn ion ( ere n is the ber of ges in the
set ) .
the rom ion hod ( cf ( 123 , 123 ) ) ves a lar ult , but ows the ges to be sed in a gle tch her han nce for ach umn com - ion ( eby ing uch ter to ute for rge ces ) .
rom oes not ive the ame ror und on its ion to k .
ver , use of the ing ies of nel ces we ect the ber of rge ues of our rix to be all , ere the ber of rge ues uld go own ive to the unt of ing .
in our rix we ved hat the ues do end to rop off kly .
use of his , a set of the mns of our rix , uld ode uch of the ata in the rix .
his ies hat the rom hod may ide a ood ion to k .
the rom hod tes two act ets of k , a and b , and ses ese to ate the est of k .
ing his ion of k , the ors can be oxi -
rst the n
n nel rix , k , is ned as
, ! ' / ) 123 - . + nd$ : ' / ) 123 - 123 .
ere , a is a set of the ges , ( in our ase 123 ran -
z _ lph
czg om oqp
23p dam ein
ure 123 : the ure ows a ive set of ers rom our est old ies , ing a ies of ant ies of oth the set and the hod .
ote hat his ure tly tes our ror ate in der to how ing ena and all the pes of ror we ter .
123 : ome ces are ery ent and ear in any ent ons and ses , ith a ich nge of ons ( e . g .
ers led ate lin ell , or ald eld ) .
ese ers lso ate hat our rer can ope ith ese ena .
123 : ome ces are are , or ear in her ted ies of one or two res or nly tly ent res ( e . g .
ter led abu yaf or ess fer ton ) .
123 : ome ces are not , in act , phs ( ali ron ) .
123 : the ion een per mes and ces is ill hat isy , use it ins ult to ell ich ngs are mes of ons ( ted ons , ich ows ree ate ace ena hat co - cur tly ith his ng; ice ent , ich is ent as to ace but not the ame of a on; and ent iel rap moi or ohn aul , ich how a mes ted ith the ong ace ) .
123 : ome mes are ely ous ( mes ond , ich ows two ent ces lly ted ith the ame ( the rst is an tor who yed mes ond , the ond an tor who was a ain in a mes ond lm ) .
123 : ome ces ear at oth low and ble ion ( dam ein ) .
123 : our ter ing ess is ble to rge ers ing the ame ace but led ith nct ngs ( the ers in the ght ray and ark ray ons , ely ) .
123 : our ter ing ess is not ect and uld net rom per tic dge of mes ( ric lph and ric ert lph ) , but in ses uch as nse ary eld , ald eld and nse ald eld the ngs ced are ect .
123 : our ing is ite ent in the nce of les ( ans lix ) , aps igs ( ohn ton ) and hes ( ohn ton ) .
ate lin ell
nse ald eld ald eld
ble 123 : ple mes can ten fer to the ame son .
we ink mes to ple sed on ges .
if two mes ave the ame ted ace , hen hey ust fer to the ame son .
the ove irs are the top ame ges pro - sed by our tem .
ges are sed een two mes if the ers ing to ach ame ain lar
mly ted ges ) red to ves , b is the son of ach of the ges of a , to the est of the ges in our set , and c is ted by the rom hod .
rom ves an ion for c .
his ves an ion to k ,
hen we orm
, the red ion of our ima - , by ing ate age row , age umn ums ( ese are ual nce k is ric ) , and age ent ues .
we can ate the age row ( or umn ) sum as :
is zed by :
we ter as ual ,
we hen lve for the zed ate gen - ors as ows .
rst , we ace a and b by eir
red ons .
et* be the are oot of a , and .
ize s as
we eed as ual for pca , his ion of by ing the ors the zed ors .
his ves a ity ion of our ges hat kes the ion ask
hen we ave
we iew our ion as a emi - sed set ith ors hat we ish to ean up .
rst we orm rim - nts rom ces ith nly one mon ted ame .
ile his is a rly all set of ces and the els are not ect , hey let us orm an ial ant ace .
we ect all of our ges nto his ace and orm a mod - ied k - ans ure for ing .
his ves a ger and ess isy set rom ich to ute imi - nts .
ese new nts ive a ter ion of ity and we use hem to re - ter .
his ves a eli - ble set of ers .
123 ied k - ans ing ach age has an ted tor , ven by the pca and lda ses , and a set of ted mes ( ose rds ted ing our per ame tor rom the
the ing ess rks as ows : 123
mly ign ach age to one of its ted mes 123
for ach nct ame ( ter ) , ate the ean of age vec - ors ned to hat ame .
ign ach age to the est ean of its ted mes .
eat 123 - 123 til nce ( i . e .
no age ges mes ing an era - 123 ing ers we use a est bor del to ibe our set and row out nts hat ave a low ity der his del .
we ove ers ith wer han ree ges so hat est bor has ome ing .
his ves 123 , 123 ges .
we hen ove nts ith low ood for a ety of lds ( ble 123 ) to get ror tes as low as 23% , ( ror tes are ted by and ing res rom our set ) .
we ene ood as the tio of the ity hat it ame rom its ned ter ver the ity hat it did not ome rom its ned ter :
ere for a int x in ter
is the ber of nts in ter
, k is the ber of ear - is the ber of ose , n is the tal ber of nts in the .
we are us - as the ted ity of a ter
est ors we are ing ,
ors hat are in ves ore ght to ler ers .
123 ing ers we uld ike to rge ers ith ent mes hat lly ond to a gle son uch as nse don - ald eld and ald eld or lan ent ugo vez and ugo vez .
his can be ely ard to do tly rom ext , in ons uch as lin ell
ble 123 : set zes , ber of ers and ror tes for ent lds .
the ber of ple in ach set is ely the ber of ers and ror ate is de - ned as : ven an ual and a ace rom eir oci - ted ter , the ror ate is the ity of hat ace be - ing ect .
we see hat for mid - vel ing we get ite all ror tes .
we ave ned a rge emi - sed set of ces nto a ell sed set and ced ean ers of any ple .
and ary of ate ( the mes do not are any rds ) .
we ose to rge mes hat ond to ces hat ook the ame .
our tem lly ose ges een ers hat ave lar ons i . e .
if the ers ave lar ces in hem hey bly ibe the ame son .
we can dge the ity of ers by the nce een eir ans in ant rdi - tes .
ble 123 ows hat ost all the top sed ges ond to ect ges ( two mes hat fer to the ame son ) , ept hat of ard ers and ent 123
ive ion we iew his hod as ing a sed set hat con - ins ors and ies in the ory nal and ing a set ith an ved ( or , lly , ect ) ory nal , bly ing ome ata ems .
we ust now ine how uch ter the new set is .
two ngs can ave ned : rst , the set may be ler .
ond , the ory nal uld be ore ac -
but how uch ore ate ? if we are ing to as - ume hat all ors are ent , we can see his sue as a ing lem .
in lar , one ust ine how any its eed to be ied to ake the set ect .
we ute his ore on a per - tem sis , so hat the ize of the set oes not ect the ore .
the ber ted is ily an ate we may not ave an mal ing eme but if one ses a bly ent ing eme uld low us to ank ods nst one 123 the ost of ing red ata we ave a set of age - ext irs , ach of ich sts of an age of one of the als , and a ist of een 123 and 123 ( lly ) ext els .
for ach ata tem , we ust now ine her his set of els ins the ect
nal ata set ost ven age els ost ven ing
123 ( ber of ges )
ure 123 : the ure ows the ate ost per tem of ing ach set ted nst the ize of the set .
ote hat the nal set ( the oss ) is rge and sy; if one ers , ges and ans , hen res the ing ure , the ing set is , in act , hat ier ( hed ine ) .
lly , if one oks at the ter ure , too , the set is uch ner in par - lar one is ing ion to a set by lus - ing it tly .
lly , ing ngs of our re - ect old ads to ets hat end to be ler and
ent the dom ble hat kes on , we can do his ith ) .
if the ist els ins the ect ame , we can ell ich it its .
if it oes not , we ust ply the ect its ( the opy of the bel
ame , ich ill ost
is the nal opy of$
hat ave a ect bel in hat ist , and ion of ose ith tem of ing the nal set
123 the ost of ing red ata our ing ure ces two pes of ure .
rst , it gns ach age rom an age - ext air to one ers .
ond , it tes a ext to ach ter , so tly ing ach age air hin hat ter .
if the ing ted in his way is ect , no her its eed to be ded .
we ute the nal ost for ect ing by ing how uch ork ( how any its ) are red to x all the ors in an ect ing and ter ing .
we ume the opy of the bel set ins xed .
we lit the lem of ing up ect ers nto two eps .
in the rst tep , we nge the ame of ach ter , if ary , so hat it nds to the son who ars ost tly in his ter .
in the ond tep , we nge the bel of ach age in a ter if it oes not ond to the ( now ect ) bel of the ter .
for the ion of ges ith
for the pro - els hat do not .
the tal ost per in his ion is
ing the ter els : let be the ion of the ion of ers ith the ect bel and ers ith an ect bel .
let be the dom ari - ble ing her a ter is led tly or not and all our ice of ing the opy of a ran - the ost per ter of ing the els for all the ers is hen
ain the ect ame , and the ost is
for the tal ber of ers per tem ( we
ing ect nts hin the ter : we as - ume for ity hat , nce the els ave een ted as ove , the ion of tly led nts in a is ent of the ter .
his ans hat the ost per tem of ing tly led nts is ent of the cic ter ure .
hen to ish ing the ing we ust pay its per tem to den - its per ect tem to
ing of the ata , ter ing , as
ify the ect ems nd$ ) .
we ave a tal per tem ost for the ect
