abs pap col som ide tar at adv our und of the fea spa ass wit sup vec ( sv ) ker fun .
we rst dis the geo of fea spa .
in par , we rev wha is kno abo the sha of the ima of inp spa und the fea spa map , and how thi inu the cap of sv met .
fol thi , we des how the met gov the int geo of the map sur can be com in ter of the ker , usi the exa of the cla of inh pol ker , whi are oft use in sv pat rec .
we the dis the con bet fea spa and inp spa by dea wit the que of how one can , giv som vec in fea spa , nd a pre ( exa or app ) in inp spa .
we des alg to tac thi iss , and sho the uti in two app of ker met .
fir , we use it to red the com com of sv dec fun sec , we com it wit the ker pca alg , the con a non sta den tec whi is sho to per wel on rea - wor dat .
ind ter den , ker met , pca , red set
met , spa rep , sup vec mac .
rep ker are fun
for pat set
giv ris to pos mat
is som com set in whi the dat liv , typ in the sup vec ( but not nec ) a sub of ( sv ) com , rep ker are oft ref to as mer ker ( sec ii - b wil sho why ) .
the pro an ele way of dea wit non alg by red the to lin one in som fea spa ins of a dot pro in rel to inp spa : usi cor to map the dat int a pos hig - by a ( usu non ) map
dim dot pro spa
man rec jan 123 , 123 rev may 123 , 123
par of thi wor was don whi p .
kni was wit bel lab and b .
sch and a .
smo wer wit the dep of eng , aus nat uni , can .
thi wor was sup by the arc and the dfg und gra ja 123 / 123 , 123 , 123
sch was wit gmd fir , 123 ber , ger .
he is now
wit moc res ltd . , cam cb1 , u . k .
mik , k . - r .
mul , g .
rat , and a .
smo are wit gmd fir ,
123 ber , ger .
bur is wit bel lab , hol nj , usa .
kni is wit the max - pla - ins fur bio kyb ,
123 tub , ger .
pub ite ide s 123 - 123 ( 123 ) 123 - 123
, and tak the dot pro the , i . e . , ( 123 )
a fea map ass - by vir of thi pro , we sha cal cia wit any lin alg whi can be car out in ter of dot pro can be mad non by sub an a pri cho ker .
exa of suc alg inc the pot fun met , sv mac , and ker pca ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
the pri tha one has to pay for thi ele , how , is tha the sol are onl obt as exp in ter of inp pat map int fea spa .
for ins , the nor vec of an sv hyp is exp in ter of svs , jus as the ker pca fea ext are exp in ter of tra exa
wit som map tes poi
whe eva an sv dec fun or a ker pca fea ext , thi is nor not a pro : due to ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) int a ker exp whi can be eva eve liv in an inn - dim spa .
in som cas , how , the are rea man a mor com und of wha exa is the con bet pat in inp spa and ele of fea spa , giv as exp suc as ( 123 ) .
thi eld bei far fro und , the cur pap att to gat som ide elu the pro , and sim pro som alg for sit whe the abo con is imp .
the are the pro of den by ker pca , and the pro of spe up sv dec fun .
the rem of
is org as fol .
sec ii dis dif way of und the map fro inp spa int fea spa .
fol tha , we bri rev two fea spa alg , sv mac and ker pca ( sec iii ) .
the foc of int of the pap , the way bac fro fea spa to inp spa , is des in sec iv , and , in the mor gen for of con spa app of fea spa exp , in sec v .
the alg pro in the two sec are exp eva in sec vi and dis in sec vii .
fro inp spa to fea spa
in thi sec , we sho how the fea spa in que are den by cho of a sui ker fun .
ins int
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
the str of fea spa can the be gai by con the rel to rep ker hil spa , by how the can be app by an emp map , by the ext geo , whi lea to use new cap res , and by the int geo , whi can be com sol in ter of the ker . 123
the mer ker map
we sta by sta the ver of mer the giv to be a nit mea spa . 123 by
in ( 123 ) .
we ass alm all we mea exc for set of mea zer .
the 123 ( mer ) : sup
met rea - val ker suc tha
is a sym - the int ope
rep the , for eac
, cal it
, suc tha
the exi a uni
to , and
is the fun on
in con , we use pro ) .
in vie of thi pro ,
obt by xin the sec is the dot pro of the rkh .
to den the can ( euc ) dot is cal a rep
not tha by ( 123 ) ,
ide zer .
hen the set of fun spa the who rkh .
the dot pro on the rkh thu and can the onl nee to be den on be ext to the who rkh by lin and con .
fro ( 123 ) , it fol tha in par
be the nor eig of
ass wit the eig
, sor in non
hol for alm all in the lat cas , the ser con abs and uni for alm
fro sta 123 , it fol tha
cor to a dot
for alm all
in fac , the uni con of the ser imp tha suc tha eve if the ran can be app wit
the exi an
, bet ima of
as a dot pro in
the rep ker map
we can als thi of the fea spa as a rep ker hil spa ( rkh ) .
to see thi ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , rec tha a rkh is a hil spa of fun suc tha all eva fun , i . e . , the map , are con .
in tha cas , by the rie
123 tho rea who are chi int in app and alg
mig wan to con ski ove the pre sec .
123 a nit mea spa is a set x wit a - alg den on it , and a mea den on the lat , sat ( x ) < 123 ( i . e . , up to a sca fac , is a pro mea ) .
a - alg on x is a fam of sub of x ; whi is clo und ele set - the ope ( cou uni , int , and com ) , and whi con x as a mem .
a mea is a fun : ! + whi is - add , i . e . , the mea of a set whi is the dis uni of som oth set equ the sum of the
123 i . e . , a fun of two var whi giv ris to an int ope .
( thi imp tha
thi mea tha any rep ker pro in ano spa .
is sym ) .
not tha cor to a dot
let us now con a mer ker , i . e . , one whi sat the con of the 123 , and con a dot pro suc con the fun
bec a rep ker for the hil spa
by lin , we hav
is a mer ker , the
cho to be ort wit res to the dot pro in hen it is str to con a dot pro
( usi the kro sym to the rep ker pro ( 123 ) ( usi ( 123 ) ) .
, in whi cas ( 123 ) red
the , ( 123 ) pro us wit a fea map
pro 123 : for any mer ker
the exi a
suc tha for
the emp ker map
whi giv an int alt the vie , doe not app all tha use at rst sig .
in pra , it wou see poi to rst map the inp int fun , i . e . , int inn - dim obj .
how , for fro ( 123 ) by a giv dat , it is pos to app onl eva it on the poi ( cf . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
den 123 : for giv pat
, we cal
the emp ker map wit reg to .
the cas whe
exa : con rst
is a mer i . e . , we eva on the tra pat .
if we car out a lin alg in fea spa , the eve wil tak pla in the lin spa of the map tra pat .
the , we can rep the inf .
how , the dot pro to use in tha rep - , sin the tat is not sim the can dot pro in wil usu not for an ort sys .
to tur int a fea map ass wit , we nee to end wit a dot pro
of ( 123 ) as
to thi end , we use the ans pos mat . 123 enf ( 123 ) on the tra pat , thi yie the sel - con con ( cf . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) )
her , we hav use
to den the
ker gra mat
the con ( 123 ) can be sat for ins by the pse -
equ , we cou hav inc thi res ope , whi cor to a ker pca whi ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , dir int the map , by mod ( 123 ) to
thi sim amo to div the eig bas vec par the res of the eig of the int ope bel to the ker , giv by ( 123 ) .
are the eig of
for dat set whe the num of exa is sma tha the dim , it can act be com exp rat tha usi ker att to car out in wha sub alg ( svm , or ker pca , say ) one wan to use .
as an asi , not tha in the cas of ker pca ( to be des in sec iii ) , one doe not eve nee to wor abo the whi ste : usi the can dot pro in whi yie the sam lea to dia eig wit squ eig .
thi was poi out by ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
we end thi sec wit two not whi ill why the use of ( 123 ) nee not be res to the spe cas we jus
mor gen ker .
whe usi non ker in ( 123 ) , tog wit the can dot pro , one 123 not tha eve dot pro can be wri in thi for .
mor , we do not req den of a , as the nul spa can be pro out , lea to a low - dim fea spa .
123 it is und tha if k is sin , we use the pse of k 123 :
wil eff wor wit a mat
, wit gen not tha eac pos sem mat can be
if we wan to car out the whi ste , it wou ( cf . , foo 123 con
hav to be usi
dif eva set .
mik ( 123 ) has per exp -
ime to spe up ker pca by cho as a pro sub of
now tha we hav des the ker map in som det , inc var on it , we sha nex loo at its pro .
spe , we stu its eff on the cap of ker met ( sec ii - d ) and the ind geo in fea spa ( sec ii - e ) .
the cap of the ker map
vap ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) giv a bou on the cap , mea by the vc - dim , of opt mar cla .
it tak
is an upp bou con the len of the wei vec of the hyp in can for , and rad of the sma sph con the dat in the spa whe the hyp is con .
the sma thi sph is , the sma is als the cap , wit ben eff on the gen err bou .
if the dat is dis in a rea iso way , whi is oft the cas in inp spa , the ( 123 ) can be fai pre . 123 if , how , the dis of the dat is suc tha it doe not ll the sph , the ( 123 ) is was .
the arg in the rem of the sec , whi is sum fro ( 123 ) , sho tha usi a ker typ ent tha the dat in fac lie in som box wit rap dec sid , whi can be muc sma tha the abo sph .
fro sta 123 of the 123 , the exi som con
dep on the ker
and alm all
par in wit sid len
is ess con in an axi par
to see how thi eff res the cla of fun we is don in ter are usi , we rst not tha eve in of dot pro .
the , we can com any inv by the cor lin tra of the dat in inv adj tra on the set of adm wei , we hav
, i . e . , for any inv ope
hen , we may con a dia sca ope whi ina the sid of the abo par as muc as pos , whi ens tha it sti liv in a sph of the fac on the rig han sid of ( 123 ) , but it buy us som
thi wil not cha the
123 in ter of ent num , thi is due to the tig of the rat giv
by a fam the of mau ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
sin eve is don in ter of dot pro , sca up the dat by a can be com by sca the wei vec wit a12 : by cho a suc tha the dat is sti con in a bal of the sam rad r; we eff red our fun cla ( par by the wei vec ) , whi lea to bet gen bou whi dep on the ker ind the map :
reg the sec fac : one can sho tha the fun cla ess beh as if it was nit - dim , wit a cut - off det by the rat of dec of the rea tha lea to the imp bou is som - wha int and can pre be exp in ful det .
in a nut , the ide is to com the cap ( mea in ter of cov num of the sv fun cla , eva on an - sam ) via the ent num of a sui lin , con rst the ope
for our pur , the ent num of are cru .
the can be com a sph of rad as the ent num of the ope fac pro of ent num , the can be upp bou tak int acc the abo sca ope in a rat pre way .
the fas the eig of the ass wit a giv ker dec , the sma the ent num ( and hen the cap ) of the cor fea spa alg fun cla , and the str the gen err bou tha one can pro .
as an exa , we now con how the ent num dep asy on the eig of
is a mer ker wit
an exa of suc a ker ( for
is the gau
thi pro all the for of a pri gen - ali err bou dep on the eig of the ker .
usi sim ent num met , pos to giv rat pre dat - dep bou in ter of the eig of the ker gra mat ( 123 ) .
123 con two nor spa e and f : for n 123 , the nth ent num of a set m e is den as n ( m ) : = inf f > 123 : the exi an - cov for m in e con n or few poi : ( rec tha the cov num n ( ; m ) , bei ess its fun inv , mea how man bal of rad one nee to cov m : ) the ent num n ( t ) of an ope t : e ! f are den as the ent num of the ima of the uni bal und t : not tha 123 ( t ) = jjt jj; int , the hig ent num all a ner cha of the com of the ima of t ( e . g . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
not tha ent num hav som nic pro tha cov num are lac .
for ins , sca a sub of a nor vec spa by som fac sim sca its ent num by the sam fac .
ent num are a pro too for stu the cap of fea spa met .
thi is due to the fac tha in the lin cas , whi is wha we are int in for fea spa alg , the can be stu usi pow met of fun ana ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
the met of the ker map
ano way to gai ins int the str of fea spa is to con the int sha of the man to whi one dat is map .
it is imp her to dis and the sur in tha spa to bet the fea spa act map , whi we wil whi poi in inp spa suf smo tha str suc as a rie met can be den on it .
her we wil fol the ana of ( 123 ) , to whi the rea is ref for mor det , alt the app to the cla of inh pol ker
for sim , we ass her tha
wil be an
we rst not tha all int geo pro of
can be der onc we kno the rie met ind the rie met can be by the emb of den by a sym met ten do not nee to kno the exp map it can be wri sol in ter of the ker .
to see thi con the lin ele
to inp spa
cor to the vec spa , we hav
rep a sma but nit
thu we can rea off the com of the met ten
for the cla of ker whi are fun onl of dot pro - uct bet poi in bot cov and con
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
com of the met tak a sim for
whe the pri den der wit res to the arg - to ill , let us com the int geo - cor to the cla of ric pro of the sur inh pol mer ker
is a con .
pro rel to the int cur of a sur are com cap by the rie
whe the chr sym of the sec kin are den
thu we nd tha for thi cla of ker , the rie cur -
vat , for arb inp spa dim
, is giv by
one can exp tha the den on the sur wil bec ill beh for dat who nor is sma , for hom pol ker , but not for the inh cas .
sim pro may ari in the pat rec cas if one dat lie nea the sin .
the con can be ext to com the int vol ele on on , and to giv som sim nec tes tha mus be sat by any ker if it is to be a mer ker : the rea is ref to ( 123 ) for det .
, whi may be use to com the den
fea spa alg
we nex des the two alg use in thi pap : sv mac , and ker pca .
the sv alg sha not be des in det , let us onl bri x the not .
sv cla ( 123 ) con a max mar hyp in inp spa , thi cor to a non dec
bou of the for
are the tra exa .
tho wit
, whi are cal svs in man app , mos of the fou by sol a qua pro , tur out to be zer .
exc cla acc in bot ocr and obj rec hav bee obt usi sv mac ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
a gen to the cas of reg est , lea to sim fun exp , exi ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ker pri com ana ( 123 ) car out a the ext fea tak
lin pca in the fea spa the non for
it is int to com thi res wit tha for the
whe , up to a nor , the th eig of the mat
are the com of
thi can be und as fol .
we wis to nd eig -
of the cov mat
the fea spa , 123 whe
thi ana sho tha add the con
ker res in str dif in the geo .
bot cur van for
, as exp .
how for
van for all pow whe
doe not van for any fur , all sur for hom ker wit non cur ( i . e . , tho non of the cor sur for inh ker
hav a sin at
thu bey pro ins int the geo str gen by cho of ker , the geo - of the sur in ric ana als giv mor con res .
for exa , 123 not tha if c < 123 the ker is not a mer ker and the abo ana
doe not app .
is ver hig dim thi wil be in the cas whe imp to com dir .
to be sti abl to sol thi pro , one use mer ker .
to thi end , we nee to in dot pro .
we der a for whi onl use the rep any occ of way we avo dea wit the map dat exp , whi may be int in ter of mem and com cos .
to nd a for for pca whi use onl dot pro - uct , we rst sub the cov mat ( 123 ) int the not tha all sol to thi
123 her we ass tha the map dat is cen , too .
in gen thi wil not be tru , but all com can eas be ref to per an exp cen in f ( 123 ) .
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
tra dat .
thu , we may con the equ sys
mus lie in the spa of
- ima of the
and exp the sol
sub ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) int ( 123 ) , and den a
we arr at a pro whi is cas
in ter of dot pro : sol
nor the sol
( for det on the las ste see ( 123 ) ) .
to ext fea , we com the pro of the
ont the th eig in the fea
ima of a tes poi
usu , thi wil be muc che tha tak the dot pro in the fea spa exp .
to con the bri sum of ker pca , we sta a cha whi inv the sam reg ( the len of the wei vec ) as the one use in sv mac .
, the th ker pca fea ext - , is opt amo all fea ext of
pro 123 : for all
tor , sca by
the pre pro .
not eac poi in the spa of the map inp dat is nec the ima of som inp pat .
the , not eac poi tha can be wri as an exp in ter of map inp pat ( e . g . , a ker pca eig , or a svm hyp nor vec ) , can nec be exp as the ima of a sin inp pat .
fro fea spa to inp spa
unl sec ii , whi des how to get fro inp spa int fea spa , we now stu the way bac .
the has bee a fai amo of wor on asp of thi pro in the con of dev so - cal red set met ( e . g . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
for ped rea , we sha pos red set met to sec v , as the foc on a pro tha is alr mor com tha the one we wou lik to sta wit .
the pre pro
as sta in the int , fea spa alg exp the sol as exp in ter of map inp int the fea spa poi ( 123 ) .
how , sin the map is non , we can gen ass tha eac suc
exp wil hav a pre und be eas to com , as sho by the fol res ( 123 ) .
if the pre exi , it wou
, i . e . , a poi
pro 123 : con a fea spa exp
if the exi a
in the sen tha it has the sho wei vec
is an inv fun
, the we can
sub to the con tha
123 ) it is ort to the rst ext ( in fea spa )
123 ) app to the tra set
var set of out .
ker pca fea
it lea to a uni
bot sv mac and ker pca uti mer ker to gen a lin alg to a non set mor , bot use the sam reg , alb in dif dom of lea ver uns .
nev , fea - tur ext exp on han dig ima usi ker pca hav sho tha a lin hyp cla tra on the ext fea can per as wel as a non sv mac tra dir on the inp ( 123 ) .
is any ort bas of inp spa .
pro : we exp
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
sev rem on thi pro sho be giv .
fir ,
exa of ker whi are inv fun of are pol ker
pre .
as we sha see in exp , how , eve bet pre can be fou , whi mak som int app pos ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) :
and sig ker
a sim res hol for rbf ker ( usi the pol ide ) all we nee is a ker whi all the rec - fro , eva on som inp poi whi we are all to cho ( for det , cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
the cru ass , cle ,
is the exi of the pre .
unf , the are man sit whe the are no pre .
to ill thi , we con the fea ( 123 ) .
cle , onl poi in fea spa whi can do hav a pre und thi map .
to be wri as cha thi set of poi in a spe exa , con
, map it int
den : giv a noi hig com to obt dat set is cap in the rst com mai pic up the noi thi sen , tho of as a den ver of
, and the com a her , the hop is tha the mai str in the dir , and the rem
com : giv the eig
and a sma num - , com a thi is use
( cf . , ( 123 ) ) of
ber of fea pre as an app rec of
is sma tha the dim of the inp dat .
int : vis a non fea ext
, but not
by com a pre .
in thi pap , we foc on the rst poi .
in the nex sec , we sha dev a met for min ( 123 ) , whi we wil lat , in the exp sec , app to the cas whe
an alg for app pre
map eac inp int a gau sit on in thi cas , tha poi .
how , it is kno ( 123 ) tha no gau can be wri as a lin com of gau cen at oth poi .
the , in the gau cas , non of the exp ( 123 ) , exc tri cas wit onl one ter , has an exa
the pro tha we had ini set out to sol has tur out to be ins in the gen cas .
let us try to ask for les .
rat tha try to nd exa pre , we now con app one .
we cal
are the vec
for whi goo app pre exi ? as des in sec iii , ker pca is not but pca in
the pre sec ( 123 ) giv an ana for the cas of the gau ker , whi has pro to per ver wel in app ( 123 ) , and pro an ite pro for com pre of ker exp .
we sta by con a pro sli mor gen tha the pre pro : we are see to app fir obs tha rat
we can min the dis bet
and the ort
to thi end , we max
wit the fol opt app pro ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
are sor acc to non - her , we ass tha the bei the sma non
is the - dim pro min -
ima pre : tri , alr
can be exp to hav a goo app - is a goo app
123 jus how sma it nee to be in ord to for a sat app wil dep on the pro at han .
the , we hav ref fro giv a for den .
is pre to the one of ( 123 ) ove
whi can be exp in ter of the ker .
the max - tio of ( 123 ) ove , sin it com a low - dim pro , and sin hav dif sca beh .
onc the max of ( 123 ) is fou , it is ext to the min of ( 123 ) by set ( cf .
( 123 ) ) ( 123 ) can eit be min usi sta tec ( as in ( 123 ) ) , or , for par cho of ker , usi xed - poi ite met , as sho pre .
for ker whi sat
gau ker ) , ( 123 ) red to
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
the dif bet two den ( mod nor
to see thi , we den the set
and the sho
giv a vec 123 f , we try to app it by a mul of a vec ( zzz ) in the ima of inp spa ( n ) und the non map by ndi zzz suc tha the pro dis of ont spa ( ( zzz ) ) is
i . e . , we are try to nd a whe the dif bet the ( unn ) pro for the two cla is max , and est the app to ( 123 ) by a gau cen at mor , not tha we can rew ( 123 ) as
for the ext , we hav
, we sub ( 123 ) to get
the suf con
to eva the gra
in ter of
, we obt
, lea to
for the gau ker we thu arr at
red set ( rs ) met
the pro
we now mov on to a sli mor gen pro , rst stu by ( 123 ) , whe we are no lon onl loo for sin pre , but exp .
it wil tur out tha one can als use the met dev in the las sec to des an alg for the mor gen cas .
ass we are giv a vec
, exp in ima
of inp pat
and dev an ite
rat tha loo for a sin pre , we now try to app it by a red set
and thu is non in a the den equ nei of the ext of ( 123 ) , unl the ext its is zer .
the lat onl occ if the pro of is zer , in whi cas it is poi the lin spa of num ins rel to to try to app bei sma can thu be app by res
the ite wit dif sta val .
int , ( 123 ) can be int in the con of clu ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
it det the cen of a sin gau clu , try to cap as man of the as pos , and sim avo tho the sig of the equ the lab of the pat is thi sig whi dis ( 123 ) fro pla clu or par den est .
the occ of neg sig is rel to the fac tha we are not try to est a par den but
for sv cla ,
to thi end , one can
the cru poi is tha eve if can be com ( and min ) in ter of the ker .
is not giv exp , ( 123 )
in the nis ben of 123 123 han dig , sv mac are mor acc tha any oth sin cla ( 123 ) ; how , the are inf to neu net in run - tim cla spe ( 123 ) .
in app whe the lat is an
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
iss , it is thu des to com up wit met to spe up thi by mak the sv exp mor spa , i . e . , rep ( 123 ) by ( 123 ) .
fin the coe
evi , the rs pro con of two par .
one has , and one has to com the to det the rs vec exp coe we sta wit the lat par , as it is eas , par , as it is com to dif rs met .
pro 123 : the opt coe
in the 123 - nor are
the gra mat can eit be com onl fro tho exa whi hav a non , or fro a lar set whi we wan to use for the exp . ) int , it wil tur out tha thi pro is clo rel to ker pca .
let us sta wit the sim cas .
ass the exi an
usi ( 123 ) , thi rea
wit eig 123 , i . e . ,
not tha if the
are lin ind , as the sho be if we wan to use the for app , the has ful ran .
oth , one can use the pse , or sel the sol whi has the lar num of zer
pro : see ( 123 ) .
we eva the der of the dis -
and set it to zer .
sub
, we obt
no rs alg usi the 123 - nor opt cri can cir thi res .
for ins , sup we are giv an alg tha com the and com up wit a sol .
the we can alw use the pro to rec the opt coe to get a sol whi is at lea as goo as the ori one .
dif alg can , how , dif in the way the det in the rst pla .
the one dea wit in the , whi the one in nex sec sim sel sub of the sec v - d use vec dif fro the ori
red set sel
123 ) sel via ker pca : the ide for the rst alg - the nul spa of rit ari fro the obs tha pre tel us the gra mat how man vec can be rem fro an exp whi com zer app err ( ass we cor adj the coe ) , i . e . , how spa we can mak an sv exp , say , wit cha it the lea ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
( her ,
are lin dep , and the - thi mea tha the for any of the be exp in ter of the oth .
hen , we may use the eig wit eig zer to eli cer ter fro any exp in the
whi com wit a non
wha hap if we do not hav non eig , suc as in the cas of gau ker ( 123 ) ? int , we wou sti bel tha eve tho the abo is no lon pre tru , it sho giv a goo app .
how , the cru dif is tha in ord to get the bes pos app , we now nee to tak int acc the coe of the exp , say , the thi err wil com an err by rem
how do we the sel the opt
cle , we wou lik to nd coe min the
err we com by rep
to est a con to ker pca , we mak a cha of var .
fir , den hen ( 123 ) equ
pro of min
, thi lea to the
a str cal sho tha we can rec the , i . e . , the val to app coe for add to the
is inv whe res
for lea out
rat tha min the non fun ( 123 ) , we now dev a com att app sol .
it is alo is min mot by the obs tha for the eig wit min eig , con wit the spe cas dis abo ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
in tha cas ,
123 the ide of app the sup vec exp by opt rem ind sup vec , and the adj the coe of tho tha rem to min the res err , was arr at ind by oli cha , who als der the exp to be min , ( 123 )
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
, wit eig
mor gen , if
is any nor
to dis of the mod , we rew
the qua pro pro
in ter of the new var , we end up wit
thi can be min in ker pca and sca thr the mat com can be red to we can eli
ope by per by onl con the cho a pri .
hen , cho in a pri yet
set all com con asi , the opt gre sol to the abo sel pro , equ to ( 123 ) , can als be obt by usi pro 123 : com the opt sol for all pos pat tha one cou lea out ( i . e . , use sub of
and eva ( 123 ) in eac cas .
the sam app to sub of any siz .
if we hav the
res to exh sca thr all sub of siz
, the pro 123 pro the opt way of sel the bes exp of a giv siz .
bet exp can onl be obt if we dro the res tha the app is wri in ter of the ori pat , as don in sec v - d .
no mat how we end up cho , we app
thi pro can be sol wit sta qua pro - gra too .
the sol ( 123 ) cou be use dir as exp coe .
for opt pre , how , we mer use it to sel whi pat to use for the exp ( tho wit non coe ) , and rec the opt coe usi pro 123
123 ) the mul cas : in man app , we fac the pro of sim app a set of spa exp .
for ins , in dig cla , a com - bin rec , one for mon app is to tra eac dig .
to thi end , the qua pro for of sec v - c . 123 can be mod to
the who sch can be ite unt the exp of
is suf spa .
if one wan to avo hav to nd the at eac ste ane , the app sma eig of sch usi heu can be con .
in our exp to be rep bel , we did com all eig at eac ste , usi the gra mat com fro the svs and the sel
acc to ( 123 ) .
123 ) sel via
met for enf spa whi is ins by shr pen ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
giv som exp
, we app it by
is a con det the tra bet spa and qua of app .
the con - can be set to one or is the mea of say .
in the lat cas , we are hop for a spa dec , sin mor emp is put on shr ter whi are alr sma .
thi ree the int tha it is les pro to try to shr ver lar ter .
ide , we wou lik to cou the num of non coe , rat tha sum the mod how , the for doe not lea to an efc sol opt pro .
the ind and are und to ran ove all svs ( i . e . , exp vec whi hav a non coe for at lea one of the rec ) , and ove the , we use eit one or , wit the sam rat as abo ,
is the mea of all
tog wit the con ( 123 ) ens tha we onl pen the lar of the coe per to eac ind sv .
the , as soo as one coe is bei use by one the exp , it doe not cos any to als use it for ano one .
thi is pre wha we wan for spe - up pur : if we hav to com a cer dot pro any , we mig jus as wel reu it for the oth
, we arr at the
ran ove all svs .
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
123 ) a not on the uti of red set sel : why sho we exp the pro to be use ? fir , for sv for som pos val of the , the is rea to bel tha the sv exp can be mad spa by rem the con ( not tha ( 123 ) doe not car abo the con ) . 123 sec , the num of eig whi are zer ( and thu the num of pat tha can be rem wit los ) , or at lea sma , dep on the pro at han and the ker use .
for ins , gau ker gra mat do not hav zer eig unl som of the pat are dup ( 123 ) .
nev , goo app are pos , sin the eig of gau ker dec rap ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
red set con
so far , we hav dea wit the pro of how to sel a red set of exp vec fro the ori one .
we now ret to the ori pos pro , whi inc the con of new vec to rea hig red rat .
to thi end , sup we wan to app a vec
by an exp of the typ ( 123 ) wit we ite the pro of sec iv - b by , obt by nee to be uti in its
ite ( 123 ) .
to app ( 123 ) , rep in ter of map inp ima
to thi end ,
i . e . , we nee to set
cou be com as
if the vec
, the the bes app of
spa is not obt by com ort pro ont eac dir .
ins , we nee to com the opt ane in eac ste , usi has not yet rea pro 123 ( if the dis wil be inv ) .
the ite is sto aft
ste , eit spe
in adv , or by mon whe
fal bel a spe thr .
the sol
vec tak the for ( 123 ) .
we con thi sec by not tha in man cas , suc as mul sv mac , or mul ker pca fea ext , we may act wan to app sev vec sim .
thi lea to mor com equ , giv in ( 123 ) .
123 ima a cas whe a cer pat app twi in the tra set , and the sv exp has to uti bot of the cop onl bec the upp bou con lim the coe of eac of the to c :
ker pca toy exa ( see tex ) : lin of con fea val for the rst eig non pri com ext wit k ( xxx yyy ) = exp ( jjx yyy : 123 ) : the rst two pri com ( top mid / rig ) sep the thr clu .
com 123 spl the clu .
com 123 spl the aga , ort to the abo spl .
to see how the pro met wor in pra we ran sev toy and rea - wor exp .
in sec vi - a , we giv den res for the app of ndi app - mat pre pre in sec iv - a .
in sec vi - b , we pre som exp for the red set met des in sec v - c and v - d .
ker pca den
123 ) toy exa : all exp rep wer car out wit gau ker ( 123 ) , min ( 123 ) wit the ite sch giv by ( 123 ) .
how , sim res wer obt wit pol ker .
mat cod for com ker pca is ava on the web fro
we gen an art dat set fro thr poi sou at ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) ( 123 poi eac ) wit ) , and per ker pca on gau noi ( it ( fig .
usi the res eig , we ext non pri com fro a set of tes poi gen fro the sam mod , and rec the poi fro var num of pri com .
123 sho tha dis hig ord com lea to rem of the noi poi mov tow the res sou .
in a sec exp ( tab i ) , we gen a dat set
wit zer mea and var
fro 123 gau in in eac com , by sel fro eac sou 123 poi as a tra set and 123 poi for a tes set ( cen of the gau ran cho in ( 123 , 123 ) the we app ker pca to the tra set and com the pro of the poi in the tes set .
wit the , we car out den , yie an app pre in tes poi .
thi pro was rep for dif num of com in rec , and for dif val of ( als use in the ker ) .
we com the res pro by our alg to tho of lin pca via the mea squ dis of all den tes poi to the cor cen .
tab i sho the rat of the val her and bel , rat lar tha one ind tha ker pca per bet tha lin pca .
for alm eve cho of
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
den gau in 123 ( see tex ) .
per rat lar tha one ind how muc bet ker pca did , com to lin pca , for dif cho of the gau sta dev ;
and dif num of com use in rec
ker pca den by rec fro pro ont the eig of fig .
we gen 123 new poi fro eac gau , rep the in fea spa by the rst n = 123 123 ; 123 non pri com , and com app pre , sho in the upp nin pic ( top lef : ori dat , top mid : n = 123 , top rig : n = 123 , etc . ) .
not tha by dis hig ord pri com ( i . e . , usi a sma n ) , we rem the noi inh in the non var the gau .
the low nin pic sho how the ori poi mov in the den .
unl the cor cas in lin pca , whe we obt lin ( see fig .
123 ) , in ker pca clu shr to poi .
rec and poi mov for lin pca , bas on the rst pri com .
, ker pca did bet .
not tha usi all ten com , lin pca is jus a bas tra and hen can den .
the ext sup of ker pca for sma is due to the fac tha all tes poi are in thi cas loc clo to the 123 spo in inp spa , and lin pca has to cov the wit les tha 123 dir .
ker pca mov eac poi to the cor sou eve whe usi onl a sma num of com .
to get som int und in a low - dim cas , fig .
123 dep the res of den a hal cir and a squ in the pla , usi ker pca , a non aut , pri cur , and lin pca .
the pri cur alg ( 123 ) ite est a cur cap - ing the str of the dat .
the dat are pro to the clo poi on a cur whi the alg tri to con suc tha eac poi is the ave of all dat poi pro ont it .
it can be sho tha
den in 123 - d ( see tex ) .
dep are the dat set ( sma poi ) and its den ver ( big poi , joi up to sol lin ) .
for lin pca , we use one com for rec , as usi two com , rec is per and thu doe not den .
not tha all alg exc for our app hav pro in cap the cir str in the bot exa ( tak fro ( 123 ) ) .
str lin sat the lat are pri com , so pri cur are a gen of the lat .
the alg use a smo par whi is ann dur the ite .
in the non aut alg , a bot ve - lay net is tra to rep the inp val as out ( i . e . , it is use in aut mod ) .
the hid uni act in the thi lay for a low - dim rep of the dat , clo rel to pca ( see , for ins , ( 123 ) ) .
tra is don by con gra des .
in all alg , par val wer sel suc tha the bes pos den res was obt .
the gur sho tha on the clo squ pro , ker pca doe ( sub ) bes , fol by pri cur and the non aut lin pca fai com .
how , not tha all alg exc for ker pca act pro an exp one - dim par of the dat , whe ker pca onl pro us wit a mea of map poi to the den ver ( in thi cas , we use fou ker pca fea , and hen obt a
123 ) han dig den : to tes our app on rea - wor dat , we als app the alg to the usp dat of han dig ( e . g . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) of 123 tra 123 ) .
for eac of the pat and 123 tes pat ( siz 123 ten dig , we ran cho 123 exa fro the tra set and 123 exa fro the tes set .
we use the met of sec iv - b , wit the wid 123 equ twi the ave of the dat var
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
vis of eig ( see tex ) .
dep are the 123 row : dif vis for ker pca .
123 eig ( fro lef to rig ) .
fir row : lin pca , sec and thi
in eac dim .
in fig .
123 , we giv two pos dep of the eig fou by ker pca , com to tho fou by lin pca for the usp set .
the sec row sho the app pre of the eig
) , low rig
, fou by our ite alg .
in the thi row is the pro eac ima is com as fol : pix - ima of the th can bas vec in inp spa ont the cor eig in fea spa ( upp lef ) .
in the lin cas , bot met wou sim yie the eig of lin pca dep in the rst row in thi sen , the may be con as gen eig in inp spa .
we see tha the rst eig are alm ide ( exc for arb sig ) .
how , we als see tha eig in lin pca sta to foc on hig - fre str alr at sma eig siz .
to und thi , not tha in lin pca we onl hav a max num of 123 eig , con to ker pca whi giv us the num of tra exa ( her 123 ) pos eig .
thi als exp som of the res we fou whe wor - ing wit the usp set ( fig .
123 and 123 ) .
in the exp , lin and ker pca wer tra wit the ori dat .
to the tes set , we add
123 ) add gau noi wit zer mea and sta
123 ) spe noi , whe eac pix is ipp to bla or
whi wit pro
for the noi tes set , we com the pro ont lin and non com , and car out rec for eac cas .
the res wer com by tak the mea squ dis of eac rec dig of the noi tes set to its ori cou .
for the opt num of com in lin and ker pca , our app did bet by a fac of 123 for the gau noi , and 123 for the spe noi ( the opt num of com wer 123 in lin pca , and 123 and 123 in ker pca , res ) .
tak ide num of com in bot alg , ker pca bec up to eig tim bet tha lin pca .
how , not tha ker pca com wit a hig com com .
spe up sup vec dec rul
as in sec vi - a , we use the usp han dig dat .
we app the sv exp ( 123 ) of ten bin cla , eac tra to sep one dig fro the
den of usp dat ( see tex ) .
the lef hal sho : top : the rst occ of eac dig in the tes set , sec row : the upp dig wit add gau noi ( = 123 : 123 ) , fol ve row : the rec for lin pca usi n = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 com , and , las ve row : the res of our app usi the sam num of com .
in the rig hal we sho the sam but for spe noi wit pro p = 123 : 123 :
we use the gau ker
, and the app tec des
in sec v - c and v - d .
the ori sv sys had on ave 123 svs per cla - sie .
tab ii and iii sho the cla err res for app usi the red set sel tec de - scr in sec v - c , whi tab iv giv res for usi the red set con met des in sec v - d , for var num of rs vec .
sho in eac lin is the num of mis dig for eac sin cla and the err of the com 123 - cla mac .
in all rs sys , the opt sv thr was rec on the tra set .
for the met of sec v - c , rss - mea , tha for eac bin cla , we rem sup vec unt on ave wer lef for the met of sec sec v - d , tha we app eac dec fun usi ste usi the des ite pro ) .
for lar , i . e . , sma red of the dec fun com , the acc of the ori sys can be ap -
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
mea squ err of den ima ver num of fea use , for ker pca and lin pca .
ker pca exp non and has the pot to uti mor fea to cod str rat tha noi .
the , it out lin pca den if a suf lar num of fea is use .
num of tes err for eac bin rec , and tes err
rat for 123 - cla cla usi the rs met of sec
sec v - c . 123
top : num of svs for the ori sv rbf - sys .
bot , fir row : ori sv sys , wit 123 svs on ave
fol row : sys wit var ave num of rs
vec .
in the sys rss - n , equ fra of svs wer rem fro eac rec suc tha on ave , n rs vec wer lef
num of tes err for eac bin rec , and tes err rat for ten - cla cla usi the rs met of sec v - c . 123 ( ci = =j ij ) : fir row : ori sv sys , wit 123 svs on ave fol row : sys wit var ave num of
rs vec .
in the sys rss - n , was adj suc tha the ave num of rs vec lef was n ( the con , giv
in par , was cho suc tha the num n wer
com to tab ii ) .
the res can be fur imp usi the met of sec v - c12 ( ci = = max j j i j ) : for
ins , usi abo 123 exp vec ( whi is the sam num tha we get whe tak the uni of all svs in the rss 123 sys ) , thi led to an imp err rat of 123
pro clo wit bot tec .
in tab ii and iii , we see tha rem of abo 123 of the sup vec lea the err pra unc .
red the num of sup vec fur can lea to lar per los .
the red set con met , whi is com - tio and con mor com , per bet in thi sit as it is abl to uti vec dif fro the ori sup pat in the exp .
to get a spe by a fac of ten , we hav to use a sys wit 123 rs vec ( rsc - 123 ) .
for the met in tab iv , acc onl dro mod fro 123 to 123 , whi
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
com dis of red set vec con by the ite app of sec v - d for n = 123 , wit coe ( top : rec of dig 123 , , bot : dig 123 ) .
not tha pos coe ( rou ) cor to pos exa in the cla pro .
num of tes err for eac bin rec , and tes err
rat for ten - cla cla usi the rs con met of sec v - d .
fir row : ori sv sys , wit 123 svs on ave ( see als tab ii and iii ) ; fol row : sys wit var num of rs vec ( rsc - n sta for n vec con ) per bin rec ,
com by ite one - ter app , sep for
eac rec .
las two row : wit a sub glo
gra des , the res can be fur imp ( see tes )
the rst pha by abo two ord of mag ) : thi led to an err rat of 123 .
for the con ker , thi is alm ide to the tra rs met , whi yie 123 ( for pol ker , the lat met led to 123 at the sam spe ( 123 ) ) .
not tha the tra rs met res the sec pha man tim to mak sur tha the glo min of the cos fun is act fou , whi mak it pla tha the nal res are sim .
fin , fig .
123 sho the rs - 123 vec of the ten bin cla .
as an asi , not tha unl the app of ( 123 ) , our alg pro ima whi do loo mea ( i . e . ,
alg uti mer ker con the sol in ter of map inp is oft unk , or too com to pro any int abo the sol has mot our eff to red the com of the exp , sum in thi pap .
as an ext cas , we hav rst stu how to app - ( i . e . , how to nd an app ) , and pro a xed - poi ite alg
by a sin
to per the tas .
is sti com wit con neu net on tha dat bas ( 123 ) .
mor , we can fur imp thi res by add the sec pha of the tra rs alg , whe a glo gra des is per in the spa ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ( com mor exp tha
in sit whe no goo app pre exi , one can sti red the com of exp it as a spa exp hav pro met for com the opt coe or by ite the abo pre
and for com up wit sui pat
sel amo the
sch olk et al . : inp spa ver fea spa
bot typ of app are of the int for fea spa met how , the als lea to pra app .
in thi pap , we hav con two suc app , nam , the pro of sta den via ker pca rec , and the pro of spe up sv dec rul .
we add the in tur .
ker pca den : in den exp on rea - wor dat , we obt res sig bet tha usi lin pca .
our int of thi ndi is as fol .
lin pca can ext at mos the dim of the dat .
bei a bas tra , all com tog ful des the dat .
if the dat are noi , thi imp tha a cer fra of the com wil be dev to the ext of noi .
ker pca , on the oth han , all the ext of up to fea , whe the num of tra exa .
acc , ker pca can pro a lar num of fea car inf abo the str in the dat ( in our exp , we had in add , if the str to be ext is non , the lin pca mus nec fai , as we hav ill wit
ope que and pro inc the cho of a sui ker for a giv noi red pro , pos in con wit the reg pro of the ker ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) , the app of the app to com , and the com ( and con ) to alt non den met ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
spe up sv mac : we hav sho exp tha our app alg can be use to spe up sv mac sig .
not tha in the gau rbf cas , the app can nev be as goo as the ori , sin the ker mat
has ful ran ( 123 ) .
as in ( 123 ) , goo rs con res wer obt eve tho the obj fun did not dec to zer ( in our rs con exp , it was red by a fac of two in the rst pha , dep on how man rs vec wer com the glo gra des yie ano fac two ) .
we con tha thi is due to the fol : in cla , we are not int in
is the und pro dis of the pat ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
thi is con wit the fac tha the per of a rs sv cla can be imp by rec an opt thr
the pre rs con met ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) can be use
for any sv ker the new one is lim to
how , it is fas , and it led to int rs ima and an int con bet clu and app - ima in fea spa .
it app int to pur the que whe thi con cou be exp to for mor gen typ of app of sv and ker pca exp by mak use of gau of var wid .
the rs sel met , on the oth han , are app - cab for any sv ker .
in our exp , the led to wor red rat tha rs con how , the are sim and com fas .
amo the rst two rs sel met , the one des in sec v - c . 123 was sli sup at hig red how , the one
giv in sec v - c . 123 is com che sin unl the for , it doe not rem the svs one at a tim and the it nee not be ite .
mor , we fou tha it can be imp by sim app sev vec , cor to the ten bin rec in a dig
the pro met are app to any fea spa alg bas on mer ker .
for ins , we cou als spe up sv reg mac or ker pca fea ext .
mor , we exp fur pos to ope up in the fut , as mer ker met are bei app in an inc num of lea and sig pro pro .
the aut wou lik to tha a .
eli for hel
