is er ts me as ed at ng ur ng of he re es ed th rt or ( sv ) el ns .
we st ss he ry of re ce .
in ar , we ew at is wn ut he pe of he ge of ut ce er he re ce ap , nd ow is es he ty of sv ds .
ng is , we be ow he ic ng he ic ry of he ed ce an be ed in ms of he el , ng he le of he ss of us al ls , ch re en ed in sv rn on .
we en ss he on en re ce nd ut ce by ng th he on of ow ne an , en me or in re ce , nd a ge ( ct or te ) in ut ce .
we be ms to le is ue , nd ow ir ty in wo ns of el ds .
st , we se it to ce he al ty of sv on s; nd , we ne it th he el ca hm , by ng a ar al ng ue ch is wn to rm ll on al - ld ta .
ex ms ng , el ds , ca , ed et
od , se on , rt or es .
ng ls re ns
ll rn ts
ve se to ve es
is me ct et in ch he ta es , ly in he rt or ( ut ot ly ) a et of ( sv ) ty , ng ls re en ed to as er ls ( on ii - b ll ow hy ) .
ey de an nt ay of ng th ar ms by ng em to ar es in me re ce ad of a ot ct in ed to ut ce : ng ds to ng he ta to a ly gh - by a ( ly ar ) ap
al ot ct ce
pt ed ry 23 , 3; ed ay 23 , 23
rt of is rk as ne le p .
ch as th ll bs nd b .
pf nd a .
la re th he nt of ng , an al ty , ra .
is rk as ed by he rc nd he fg er nt ja 23 / 23 , 23 , 23
pf as th md st , 23 in , ny .
he is ow
th ft ch td . , ge 23 , u . k .
ka , k . - r .
er , g .
ch , nd a .
la re th md st ,
23 in , ny .
es is th ll es , el nj , sa .
ch is th he ax - ck - ut ur he ik ,
23 en , ny .
er em er s 23 - 23 ( 23 ) 23 - 23
, nd ng he ot ct re , i . e . , ( 23 )
a re ap so - by ue of is ty , we ll ll ed th ny ar hm ch an be ed ut in ms of ot ts an be de ar by ng an a ri en el .
es of ch ms de he al on od , sv es , nd el ca ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ( 23 ) .
he ce at ne as to ay or is ce , er , is at he ns re ly ed as ns in ms of ut ns ed to re ce .
or ce , he al or of an sv ne is ed in ms of vs , st as he el ca re rs re ed in ms of ng es
th me ed st nt
en ng an sv on on or a el ca re or , is is ly ot a em : ue to ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) to a el on ch an be ed en es in an te - al ce .
in me es , er , re re ns ng a re ve ng of at ly is he on en ns in ut ce nd ts of re ce , en as ns ch as ( 23 ) .
is ld ng ar om od , he nt er ts to er me as ng he em , nd ly es me ms or ns re he ve on is nt .
se re he em of ng by el ca , nd he em of ng up sv on ns .
he er of
is ed as ws .
on ii es nt ys of ng he ng om ut ce to re ce .
ng at , we ey ew wo re ce ms , sv es nd el ca ( on ii ) .
he us of st of he er , he ay ck om re ce to ut ce , is ed in on iv , nd , in he re al rm of ng se ns of re ce ns , in on v .
he ms ed in se wo ns re ly ed in on vi nd ed in on ii .
om ut ce to re ce
in is on , we ow ow he re es in on re ed by ce of a le el on .
ht to
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
he re of re ce an en be ed by ng ir on to ng el rt es , by ow ey an be ed by an al ap , by ir ic ry , ch ds to ul ew ty ts , nd by ir ic ry , ch an be ed ly in ms of he el . 23
he er el ap
we rt by ng he on of rs em en to be a te re ce . 23 by
in ( 23 ) .
we me st ll we an pt or ts of re ro .
em 23 ( er ) : se
ic al - ed 23 ch at
is a ym - he al or
on em , or ch
, ll it
, ch at
re ts a ue
to , nd
is he on on
in st , we se ct ) .
in ew of is ty ,
ed by ng he nd is he ot ct of he hs .
to te he al ( an ) ot is ed a ng
te at by ( 23 ) ,
ly ro .
ce he et of ns ns he le hs .
he ot ct on he hs us nd an en ly ds to be ed on be ed to he le hs by ty nd ty .
om ( 23 ) , it ws at in ar
be he ed ns of
ed th he es
, ed in ng
ds or st ll in he er se , he es es ly nd ly or st
om nt 23 , it ws at
ds to a ot
or st ll
in ct , he rm ce of he es es at ch at en if he ge an be ed in
re ts an
, en es of
as a ot ct in
he ng el ap
we an so nk of he re ce as a ng el rt ce ( hs ) .
to ee is ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ll at a hs is a rt ce of ns ch at ll on ls , i . e . , he ps , re us .
in at se , by he sz
23 se rs ho re ey ed in ns nd ms
ht nt to er ng er he nt on .
23 a te re ce is a et x th a - ra ed on it , nd a re ed on he er , ng ( x ) < 23 ( i . e . , up to a ng or , is a ty re ) .
a - ra on x is a ly of ts of x ; ch is ed er ry et - ic ns ( le ns , ns , nd ts ) , nd ch ns x as a er .
a re is a on : ! + ch is - ve , i . e . , he re of a et ch is he nt ns of me er ts ls he um of he
23 i . e . , a on of wo es ch es se to an al or .
( is es at
is ns at ny ng el ct in er ce .
is ic ) .
te at ds to a ot
et us ow er a er el , i . e . , ne ch es he on of em 23 , nd ct a ot ct ch ng he ns
es a ng el or he rt ce
by ty , we ve
is a er el , he
en to be al th ct to he ot ct in ce it is rd to ct a ot ct
( ng he er ol to he ng el ty ( 23 ) ( ng ( 23 ) ) .
, in ch se ( 23 ) es
re , ( 23 ) es us th a re ap
on 23 : or ny er el
re ts a
ch at or
he al el ap
le ng an ng ve al nt , es ot ar ll at ul at st ht .
in ce , it ld em ss to st ap he ts to ns , i . e . , to te - al ts .
er , or om ( 23 ) by a en et , it is le to te ly ng it on se ts ( cf . , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) .
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
on 23 : or en ns
, we ll
he al el ap th rd to .
he se re
le : er st
is a er i . e . , we te on he ng ns .
if we ry ut a ar hm in re ce , en ng ll ke ce in he ar an of he ed ng ns .
re , we an nt he on .
er , he ot ct to se in at en - , ce he on is ot ly he al ot ct in ll ly ot rm an al em .
to rn to a re ap ed th , we ed to ow th a ot ct
of ( 23 ) as
to is nd , we se he tz ve ix . 23 ng ( 23 ) on he ng ns , is ds he lf - cy on ( cf . , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) )
re , we ve ed
to te he
el am ix
he on ( 23 ) an be ed or ce by he eu -
ly , we ld ve ed is ng on , ch ds to a el ca ng ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ly to he ap , by ng ( 23 ) to
is ly ts to ng he or is rs ls he ng of he ns of he al or ng to he el , en by ( 23 ) .
re he es of
or ta ts re he er of es is er an ir ty , it an ly be ly ly er an ng ls ve to ry ut in er nt hm ( ms , or el ca , ay ) ne ts to se .
as an de , te at in he se of el ca ( to be ed in on ii ) , ne es ot en ed to ry ut he ng ep : ng he al ot ct in ch ds he me ad to ng rs th ed es .
is as ed ut by ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) .
we nd is on th wo es ch te hy he se of ( 23 ) ed ot be ed to he al se we st
re al ls .
en ng ic ls in ( 23 ) , er th he al ot ct , ne 23 te at ry ot ct an be en in is rm .
er , we do ot re ss of a , as he ll ce an be ed ut , ng to a er - al re ce .
23 it is od at if k is ar , we se he se of k 23 :
ll ly rk th a ix
, th al te at ch ve te ix an be
if we ed to ry ut he ng ep , it ld ( cf . , te 23 ng
ve to be ng
nt on ts .
ka ( 23 ) as ed er -
ts to ed up el ca by ng as a er et of
ow at we ve ed he el ap in me il , ng ns on it , we ll xt ok at ts es .
ly , we dy ts ct on he ty of el ds ( on ii - d ) nd he ed ry in re ce ( on ii - e ) .
he ty of he el ap
ik ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) es a nd on he ty , ed by he vc - on , of al in rs .
it es
is an er nd ng he th of he ht or of he ne in al rm , nd us of he st re ng he ta in he ce re he ne is ed .
he er is re is , he er is so he ty , th al ts on he on or ds .
if he ta is ed in a ly ic ay , ch is en he se in ut ce , en ( 23 ) an be ly se . 23 if , er , he on of he ta is ch at it es ot ll he re , en ( 23 ) is ul .
he nt in he er of he on , ch is ed om ( 23 ) , ws at ng a el ly ls at he ta in ct es in me ox th ly ng hs , ch an be ch er an he ve re .
om nt 23 of em 23 , re ts me nt
ng on he el
nd st ll
ed in th de hs
is ly ed in an is el
to ee ow is ly ts he ss of ns we is ne in ms re ng , we st te at ng in of ot ts .
re , we an te ny le by he ng ar on of he ta in se nt on on he et of le ht , we ve
, i . e . , or ny le or
ce , we ay ct a al ng or ch es he es of he ve ed as ch as le , le ng at it ll es in a re of he or on he ht nd de of ( 23 ) , ut it ys us ng
is ll ot ge he
23 in ms of py rs , is is ue to he ss of he te en
by a us em of ey ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
ce ng is ne in ms of ot ts , ng up he ta by a an be ed by ng he ht rs th 23 : by ng a ch at he ta is ll ed in a ll of he me us r; we ly ce ur on ss ( ed by he ht or ) , ch ds to er on ds ch nd on he el ng he ap :
ng he nd or : ne an ow at he on ss ly es as if it as te - al , th a ut - ff ed by he te of ay of he ng at ds to he ed ds is me - at te nd ot ly be ed in ll il .
in a ll , he ea is to te he ty ( ed in ms of ng rs of he sv on ss , ed on an - le ) ia he py rs of a le ar , er st he or
or ur se , he py rs of re al .
se an be ed a re of us as he py rs of he or on es of py rs , se an be er ed ng to nt he ve ng or in a er se ay .
he er he es of he ed th a en el ay , he er he py rs ( nd ce he ty ) of he ng re ce hm on ss , nd he er he on or ds at ne an ve .
as an le , we ow er ow he py rs nd ly on he es of
is a er el th
an le of ch a el ( or
is he an
is on ws he on of a ri er - on or ds ng on he es of he el .
ng ar py er ds , le to ve er se ta - nt ds in ms of he es of he el am ix ( 23 ) .
23 er wo ed es e nd f : or n 23 , he th py er of a et m e is ed as n ( m ) : = nf f > 23 : re ts an - er or m in e ng n or er sg : ( ll at he ng er n ( ; m ) , ng ly ts al se , es ow ny ls of us ne ds to er m : ) he py rs n ( t ) of an or t : e ! f re ed as he py rs of he ge of he it ll er t : te at 23 ( t ) = jt j; ly , he er py er ow a er on of he ty of he ge of t ( e . g . , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) .
te at py rs ve me ce es at ng rs re ng .
or ce , ng a et of a ed or ce by me or ly es ts py rs by he me or .
py rs re a ng ol or ng he ty of re ce ds .
is is ue to he ct at in he ar se , ch is at we re ed in or re ce ms , ey an be ed ng ul ds of al is ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
he ic of he el ap
er ay to in ht to he re of re ce is to er he ic pe of he ld to ch es ta is ed .
it is nt re to sh nd he ce in at ce to en he re ce ly ap , ch we ll ch ts in ut ce ly th at es ch as a an ic an be ed on it .
re we ll ow he is of ( 23 ) , to ch he er is ed or re ls , gh he on to he ss of us al ls
or ty , we me re at
ll be an
we st te at ll ic al es of
an be ed ce we ow he an ic ed he an ic an be by he ng of ed by a ic ic or do ot ed to ow he it ng it an be en ly in ms of he el .
to ee is er he ne nt
to ut ce
nd to he or ce , we ve
nt a ll ut te
us we an ad ff he ts of he ic or
or he ss of ls ch re ns ly of ot od - ts en ts in th nt nd nt
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
ts of he ic ke a le rm
re he me es ve th ct to he gu - to te , et us te he ic et - ng to he ss of al es of he ce us al er ls
is a nt .
es ng to he ic re of a ce re ly ed by he nn
re he el ls of he nd nd re ed
us we nd at or is ss of ls , he nn ur -
re , or ry ut ce on
, is en by
ne an ct at he ty on he ce ll me ll ed or ta se rm is ll , or us al ls , ut ot or he us se .
ar ms ay se in he rn on se if es ta es ar he ty .
se ns an be ed to te he ic me nt on on , nd to ve me le ry ts at st be ed by ny el if it is to be a er el : he er is ed to ( 23 ) or ls .
, ch ay be ed to te he ty
re ce ms
we xt be he wo ms ed in is er : sv es , nd el ca .
he sv hm ll ot be ed in il , et us ly ey x he on .
sv rs ( 23 ) ct a um in ne in ut ce , is ds to a ar on
ry of he rm
re he ng es .
se th
, ch re ed s; in ny ns , st of he nd by ng a ic am , rn ut to be ro .
nt on es in th cr nd ct on ve en ed ng sv es ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
a on to he se of on on , ng to ar on on , ts ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
el al nt is ( 23 ) es ut a he ed es ke
ar ca in he re ce he ar rm
it is ng to re is lt th at or he
re , up to a on , he th or of he ix
re he ts of
is an be od as ws .
we sh to nd en -
of he ce ix
he re ce , 23 re
is is ws at ng he nt
el ts in ng es in he es .
th es sh or
, as ed .
er or
es or ll rs as
es ot sh or ny re , ll es or us ls th ng re ( i . e . , se ne of he ng es or us ls
ve a ty at
us nd ng ht to he al re ed by ce of el , he et - of he es in al is so es re te ts .
or le , 23 te at if c < 23 he el is ot a er el nd he ve is
es ot ly .
is ry gh al is ll be in he se en le to te ly .
to be ll le to ve is em , ne es er ls .
to is nd , we ed to in ot ts .
we ve a on ch ly es en ce ny ce of ay we id ng th he ed ta ly , ch ay be le in ms of ry nd al st .
to nd a on or ca ch es ly ot od - ts , we st te he ce ix ( 23 ) to he te at ll ns to is
23 re we me at he ed ta is ed , oo .
in al is ll ot be ue , ut ll ns an ly be ed to rm an it ng in f ( 23 ) .
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
ng ta .
us , we ay er he nt em
st ie in he an of
- es of he
nd nd he on
ng ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) to ( 23 ) , nd ng a
we ve at a em ch is st
in ms of ot ts : ve
ng he on
( or ls on he st ep ee ( 23 ) ) .
to ct es , we te he on of he
to he th or in he re
ge of a st nt
ly , is ll be ch er an ng he ot ct in he re ce ly .
to de he ef ry of el ca , we te a on ch es he me er ( he th of he ht or ) as he ne ed in sv es .
, he th el ca re ac - , is al ng ll re rs of
on 23 : or ll
or , ed by
he ge em .
ot ch nt in he an of he ed ut ta is ly he ge of me ut rn .
re , ot ch nt at an be en as an on in ms of ed ut ns ( e . g . , a el ca or , or a vm ne al or ) , an ly be ed as he ge of a le ut rn .
om re ce to ut ce
ke on ii , ch ed ow to et om ut ce to re ce , we ow dy he ay ck .
re as en a ir nt of rk on ts of is em in he xt of ng so - ed ed et ds ( e . g . , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) .
or al ns , we ll ne ed et ds to on v , as ey us on a em at is dy re ex an he ne we ld ke to rt th .
he ge em
as ed in he on , re ce ms ss ir ns as ns in ms of ed ut to he re ce ts ( 23 ) .
er , ce he ap is ar , we ot ly rt at ch ch
on ll ve a ge er be sy to te , as wn by he ng lt ( 23 ) .
if he ge ed , it ld
, i . e . , a nt
on 23 : er a re ce on
if re ts a
in he se at it as he st ht or
is an le on
, en we an
ct to he ns at
23 ) it is al to he st rs ( in re ce )
23 ) ed to he ng et
ce et of ts .
el ca re
it ds to a it
th sv es nd el ca ze er ls to ze a ar hm to a ar g; er , th se he me er , it in nt ns of ed us ed .
ss , ea - re on ts on en it es ng el ca ve wn at a ar ne er ed on he ed es an rm as ll as a ar sv ne ed ly on he ts ( 23 ) .
is ny al is of ut ce .
of : we nd
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
al ks on is on ld be en .
st ,
es of ls ch re le ns of re al ls
ge .
as we ll ee in ts , er , en er es an be nd , ch es me ng ns le ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) :
nd id ls
a ar lt ds or bf ls ( ng he on ty ) ll we ed is a el ch ws he uc - om , ed on me ut ts ch we re ed to se ( or ls , cf . , ( 23 ) ) .
he al on , ly ,
is he ce of he ge .
ly , re re ny ns re re re no es .
to te is , we er he re ( 23 ) .
ly , ly ts in re ce ch an do ve a ge er is ap .
to be en as ze is et of ts in a ic le , er
, ap it to
ng : en a sy er ts to in ta et is ed in he st ts ly ck up he in is se , ht of as a ed on of
, nd en te a re , he pe is at he in re in he ns , nd he ng
on : en he rs
nd a ll um - , te a is is ul
( cf . , ( 23 ) ) of
er of es ge as an te on of
is er an he ty of he ut ta .
on : ze a ar re or
, ut ot
by ng a ge .
in is er , we us on he st nt .
in he xt on , we ll op a od or ng ( 23 ) , ch we ll er , in he al on , ly to he se re
an hm or te es
ps ch ut to a an ng on in is se , at nt .
er , it is wn ( 23 ) at no an an be en as a ar on of ns ed at er ts .
re , in he an se , ne of he ns ( 23 ) , ng al es th ly ne rm , as an ct
he em at we ad ly et ut to ve as ed ut to be le in he al se .
et us ry to sk or ss .
er an ng to nd ct es , we ow er te es .
we ll
re re rs
or ch od te es st ? as ed in on ii , el ca is ng ut ca in
he nt on ( 23 ) es an is or he se of he an el , ch as en to rm ry ll in ns ( 23 ) , nd es an on re or ng es of el ns .
we rt by ng a em ly re al an he ge em : we re ng to te st ve at er
we an ze he ce en
nd he al
to is nd , we ze
th he ng al on ty ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
re ed ng to in - re , we me at he ng he st ro
is he - al on iz -
te ge : ly , dy
an be ed to ve a od ox - is a od te
23 st ow ll it ds to be in er to rm a ry on ll nd on he em at nd .
re , we ve ed om ng a al on .
is le to he ne of ( 23 ) er
ch an be ed in ms of he el .
he za - on of ( 23 ) er , ce it es a er - al em , nd ce ve nt ng or .
ce he um of ( 23 ) is nd , it is ed to he um of ( 23 ) by ng ( cf .
( 23 ) ) ( 23 ) an er be ed ng rd es ( as in ( 23 ) ) , or , or ar es of ls , ng ed - nt on ds , as wn ly .
or ls ch fy
an ls ) , ( 23 ) es to
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
he ce en wo es ( lo on
to ee is , we ne he ts
nd he ds
en a or 23 f , we ry to te it by a le of a or ( zz ) in he ge of ut ce ( n ) er he ar ap by ng zz ch at he on ce of to an ( ( zz ) ) is
i . e . , we re ng to nd a re he ce en he ( ed ) es or he wo es is al , nd te he on to ( 23 ) by a an ed at er , te at we an te ( 23 ) as
or he um , we ve
, we te ( 23 ) to et
he nt on
to te he nt
in ms of
, we in
, ng to
or he an el we us ve at
ed et ( rs ) ds
he em
we ow ve on to a ly re al em , st ed by ( 23 ) , re we re no er ly ng or le es , ut ns .
it ll rn ut at ne an so se he od ed in he st on to gn an hm or he re al se .
me we re en a or
, ed in es
of ut ns
nd se an on
er an ng or a le ge , we ow ry to te it by a ed et
nd us is ro in a he or ls od of he um of ( 23 ) , ss he um lf is ro .
he er ly rs if he on of is ro , in ch se it is ss he ar an of al es ed to to ry to te ng ll an us be ed by ng
he on th nt ng es .
ly , ( 23 ) an be ed in he xt of ng ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
it es he er of a le an er , ng to re as ny of he as le , nd ly ds se he gn of he ls he el of he rn is is gn ch es ( 23 ) om in ng or ic ty on .
he ce of ve ns is ed to he ct at we re ot ng to te a ic ty ut
or sv rs ,
to is nd , ne an
he al nt is at en if an be ed ( nd ed ) in ms of he el .
is ot en ly , ( 23 )
in he st rk of 23 23 en ts , sv es re re te an ny er le er ( 23 ) ; er , ey re or to al ts in un - me on ed ( 23 ) .
in ns re he er is an
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
ue , it is us le to me up th ds to ed up gs by ng he sv on re se , i . e . , ng ( 23 ) by ( 23 ) .
ng he ts
ly , he rs em ts of wo ts .
ne as , nd ne as to te he to ne he rs rs on ts we rt th he r; ly , as it is er , ly , as it is on to nt rs ds .
on 23 : he al ts
in he 23 - rm re
he am ix an er be ed ly om se es ch ve a ro , or om a er et ch we nt to se or he on . ) ly , it ll rn ut at is em is ly ed to el ca .
et us rt th he st se .
me re ts an
ng ( 23 ) , is ds
th ue 23 , i . e . ,
te at if he
re ly nt , as ey ld be if we nt to se em or on , en as ll nk .
se , ne an se he se , or ct he on ch as he st er of ro
of : ee ( 23 ) .
we te he ve of he is -
nd et it to ro .
ng
, we in
no rs hm ng he 23 - rm ty on an nt is lt .
or ce , se we re en an hm at es he nd es up th a on .
en we an ys se he on to te he al ts to et a on ch is at st as od as he al ne .
nt ms an , er , er in he ay ey ne in he st ce .
he ne lt th in he , le he ne in xt on ly ts ts of he on v - d es rs nt om he al
ed et on
23 ) on ia el ca : he ea or he st go - he ll ce of hm es om he on at ly ls us he am ix ow ny rs an be ed om an on le ng ro on or ( ng we ly st he ts ) , i . e . , ow se we an ke an sv on , ay , ut ng it he st ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
( re ,
re ly nt , nd re - is ns at he re ny of he be ed in ms of he rs .
ce , we ay se he rs th ue ro to te in ms om ny on in he
ch es th a ro
at ns if we do ot ve ro es , ch as in he se of an ls ( 23 ) ? ly , we ld ll ve at en gh he ve is no er ly ue , it ld ve a od on .
er , he al ce is at in er to et he st le on , we ow ed to ke to nt he ts of he on , ay , en is or ll it an or by ng
ow do we en ct he al
ly , we ld ke to nd ts ng he
or we it by ng
to sh a on to el ca , we ke a ge of es .
st , ne ce ( 23 ) ls
em of ng
, is ds to he
a rd on ws at we an er he , i . e . , he es to on ts or dd to he
is nt en ng
or ng ut
er an ng he ar on ( 23 ) , we ow se a ly ve te on .
it is ne is ed ed by he on at or he or th al ue , nt th he al se ed ve ( cf . , ( 23 ) ) .
in at se ,
23 he ea of ng he rt or on by ly ng al rt rs , nd en ng he ts of se at in to ze he ng or , as ed at ly by er le , ho so ed he on to be ed , ( 23 )
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
, th ue
re ly , if
is ny ed
to se of he us , we te
he ic ng em
in ms of he ew es , we nd up th
is an be ed in el ca nd ng gh he ix ty an be ed to we an te
ns by ng by ly ng he en a ri .
ce , en in a ed et
ng ll al ns de , he al dy on to he ve on em , nt to ( 23 ) , an so be ed by ng on 23 : te he al on or ll le ns at ne ld ve ut ( i . e . , se ts of
nd te ( 23 ) in ch se .
he me es to ts of ny ze .
if we ve he
es to ly an gh ll ts of ze
, en on 23 es he al ay of ng he st on of a en ze .
er ns an ly be ed if we op he on at he on is en in ms of he al ns , as ne in on v - d .
no er ow we nd up ng , we te
is em an be ed th rd ic ro - ng ls .
he on ( 23 ) ld be ed ly as on ts .
or al on , er , we ly se it to ct ch ns to se or he on ( se th ro ts ) , nd te he al ts ng on 23
23 ) he ss se : in ny ns , we ce he em of ly ng a et of ce ns .
or ce , in it on , a om - ry rs , ne or on ch is to in ch it .
to is nd , he ic ng on of on v - c . 23 an be ed to
he le me an be ed il he on of
is ly se .
if ne ts to id ng to nd he at ch ep ew , en te st ue of es ng cs an be ed .
in ur ts to be ed ow , we id te ll rs at ch ep , ng he am ix ed om he vs nd en ed
ng to ( 23 ) .
23 ) on ia
od or ng ss ch is ed by ge rs ( cf . , ( 23 ) ) .
en me on
, we te it by
is a nt ng he ff en ss nd ty of on .
he on - an be et to ne or is he an of ay .
in he er se , we re ng or a er on , ce re is is ut on ng ms ch re dy ll .
is ts he on at it is ss ng to ry to nk ry ge ms .
ly , we ld ke to nt he er of ro ts , er an um ir i; er , he er es ot ad to an ly le on em .
he es nd re od to ge er ll vs ( i . e . , on rs ch ve a ro nt or at st ne of he rs ) , nd er he , we se er ne or , th he me le as ve ,
is he an of ll
er th he nt ( 23 ) es at we ly ze he st of he ts ng to ch al sv .
re , as on as ne nt is ng ed by ne he ns , it es ot st ng to so se it or er ne .
is is ly at we nt or ed - up es : if we ve to te a in ot ct ay , we ht st as ll se it or he er
, we ve at he
es er ll vs .
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
23 ) a te on he ty of ed et on : hy ld we ct se es to be ul ? st , or sv or me ve ue of he , re is on to ve at he sv on an be de er by ng he nt ( te at ( 23 ) es ot re ut he nt ) . 23 nd , he er of es ch re ro ( nd us he er of ns at an be ed ut ss ) , or at st ll , ds on he em at nd nd he el ed .
or ce , an el am es do ot ve ro es ss me of he ns re es ( 23 ) .
ss , od ns re le , ce he es of an ls ay ly ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
ed et on
so ar , we ve lt th he em of ow to ct a ed et of on rs om he al ne .
we ow rn to he ly ed em , ch es he on of ew rs to ch gh on es .
to is nd , se we nt to te a or
by an on of he pe ( 23 ) th we te he re of on iv - b by , ed by ds to be ed in ts
ng ( 23 ) .
to ly ( 23 ) , on in ms of ed ut es
to is nd ,
i . e . , we ed to et
ld be ed as
if he rs
, en he st on of
an is ot ed by ng al ns to ch on .
ad , we ed to te he al ew in ch ep , ng as ot et ed on 23 ( if he cy ll be le ) .
he on is ed er
ps , er ed
in ce , or by ng en
ls ow a ed ld .
he on
or es he rm ( 23 ) .
we de is on by ng at in ny es , ch as ss sv es , or le el ca re rs , we ay ly nt to te al rs ly .
is ds to re ex ns , en in ( 23 ) .
23 ne a se re a in rn rs ce in he ng et , nd he sv on as to ze th of he es ly se he er nd nt ts he nt of ch of em to c :
el ca oy le ( ee xt ) : es of nt re ue or he st ht ar al ts ed th k ( x; yy ) = xp ( xx 23 : 23 ) : he st wo al ts ( op le / ht ) te he ee rs .
ts 23 it he rs .
ts 23 it em in , al to he ve ts .
to ee ow he ed ds rk in ce we an al oy nd al - ld ts .
in on vi - a , we ve ng ts or he ch of ng xi - te es ed in on iv - a .
in on vi - b , we nt me ts or he ed et ds ed in ns v - c nd v - d .
el ca ng
23 ) oy es : ll ts ed re ed ut th an ls ( 23 ) , ng ( 23 ) th he on me en by ( 23 ) .
er , ar ts re ed th al ls .
ab de or ng el ca is le on he eb om
we ed an al ta et om ee nt es at ( 23 , 23 ) , ( 23 , 23 ) , ( 23 , 23 ) ( 23 ts ch ) th ) , nd ed el ca on an se ( it ( ig .
ng he ng rs , we ed ar al ts om a et of st ts ed om he me el , nd ed he ts om ng rs of al ts .
23 ws at ng er er ts ds to al of he he ts ve rd ir ve es .
in a nd nt ( le i ) , we ed a ta et
th ro an nd ce
om 23 ns in in ch nt , by ng om ch ce 23 ts as a ng et nd 23 ts or a st et ( rs of he ns ly en in ( 23 , 23 ) en we ed el ca to he ng et nd ed he ns of he ts in he st et .
th se , we ed ut ng , ng an te ge in st nt .
is re as ed or nt rs of ts in on , nd or nt es of ( so ed in he el ) .
we ed he ts ed by ur hm to se of ar ca ia he an ed ce of ll ed st ts to ir ng er .
le i ws he io of se s; re nd ow , os er an ne te at el ca ed er an ar ca .
or st ry ce of
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
ng ns in 23 ( ee xt ) .
ce os er an ne te ow ch er el ca id , ed to ar ca , or nt es of he ns rd on ;
nd nt rs of ts ed in on
el ca ng by on om ns to he rs of ig .
we ed 23 ew ts om ch an , ed em in re ce by ir st n = 3; 3; ; 23 ar al ts , nd ed te es , wn in he er ne es ( op ft : al ta , op le : n = 23 , op ht : n = 23 , tc . ) .
te at by ng er er al ts ( i . e . , ng a ll n ) , we ve he se nt in he ro ce he ns .
he er ne es ow ow he al ts ve in he ng .
ke he ng se in ar ca , re we in es ( ee ig .
23 ) , in el ca rs nk to ts .
ns nd nt ts or ar ca , ed on he st al nt .
, el ca id er .
te at ng ll en ts , ar ca is st a is on nd ce ot se .
he me ty of el ca or ll is ue to he ct at ll st ts re in is se ed se to he 23 ts in ut ce , nd ar ca as to er em th ss an 23 ns .
el ca es ch nt to he ct ce en en ng ly a ll er of ts .
to et me ve ng in a ow - al se , ig .
23 ts he ts of ng a lf le nd a re in he ne , ng el ca , a ar er , al es , nd ar ca .
he al es hm ( 23 ) ly es a ve ur - ng he re of he ta .
he ta re ed to he st nt on a ve ch he hm es to ct ch at ch nt is he ge of ll ta ts ng to it .
it an be wn at
ng in 23 - d ( ee xt ) .
ed re he ta et ( ll ts ) nd ts ed on ( ig ts , ng up to id es ) .
or ar ca , we ed ne nt or on , as ng wo ts , on is ct nd us es ot se .
te at ll ms pt or ur ch ve ms in ng he ar re in he om le ( en om ( 23 ) ) .
ht es ng he er re al ts , so al es re a on of he er .
he hm es a ng er ch is ed ng he on .
in he ar er hm , a ck ve - er rk is ed to ce he ut es as ts ( i . e . , it is ed in ve de ) .
he en it ns in he rd er rm a er - al on of he ta , ly ed to ca ( ee , or ce , ( 23 ) ) .
ng is ne by te nt nt .
in ll ms , er es re ed ch at he st le ng lt as ed .
he re ws at on he ed re em , el ca es ( ly ) st , ed by al es nd he ar r; ar ca ls ly .
er , te at ll ms pt or el ca ly de an it ne - al on of he ta , as el ca ly es us th a ns of ng ts to ir ed ns ( in is se , we ed ur el ca es , nd ce in a
23 ) en it ng : to st ur ch on al - ld ta , we so ed he hm to he ps se of en ts ( e . g . , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) of 23 ng 23 ) .
or ch of he ns nd 23 st ns ( ze 23 en ts , we ly se 23 es om he ng et nd 23 es om he st et .
we ed he od of on iv - b , th he th 23 ls ce he ge of he as ce
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
on of rs ( ee xt ) .
ed re he 23 ow : nt ns or el ca .
th or ( om ft to ht ) .
st ow : ar ca , nd nd rd
in ch on .
in ig .
23 , we ve wo le ns of he rs nd by el ca , ed to se nd by ar ca or he ps et .
he nd ow ws he te es of he rs
) , er ht
, nd by ur ve hm .
in he rd ow is he on ch ge is ed as ws : el - ge of he th al is or in ut ce to he ng or in re ce ( er ft ) .
in he ar se , th ds ld ly ld he rs of ar ca ed in he st w; in is se , ey ay be ed as ed rs in ut ce .
we ee at he st rs re st al ( pt or ry ns ) .
er , we so ee at rs in ar ca rt to us on gh - cy es dy at er ue ze .
to nd is , te at in ar ca we ly ve a um er of 23 rs , ry to el ca ch es us he er of ng es ( re 23 ) le rs .
is so ns me of he ts we nd en rk - ng th he ps et ( gs .
23 nd 23 ) .
in se ts , ar nd el ca re ed th he al ta .
to he st et , we ed
23 ) ve an se th ro an nd rd
23 ) le se , re ch el is ed to ck or
te th ty
or he sy st ts , we ed he ns to ar nd ar ts , nd ed ut on or ch se .
he ts re ed by ng he an ed ce of ch ed it of he sy st et to ts al rt .
or he al er of ts in ar nd el ca , ur ch id er by a or of 23 or he an se , nd 23 or he le se ( he al er of ts re 23 in ar ca , nd 23 nd 23 in el ca , ly ) .
ng al rs of ts in th ms , el ca es up to ht es er an ar ca .
er , te at el ca es th a er al ty .
ng up rt or on es
as in on vi - a , we ed he ps en it se .
we ed he sv ns ( 23 ) of en ry rs , ch ed to te ne it om he
ng of ps ta ( ee xt ) .
he ft lf ws : op : he st ce of ch it in he st et , nd ow : he er it th ve an se ( = 23 : 23 ) , ng ve ws : he on or ar ca ng n = 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ts , nd , st ve ws : he ts of ur ch ng he me er of ts .
in he ht lf we ow he me ut or le se th ty p = 23 : 23 :
we ed he an el
, nd he on es ed
in ns v - c nd v - d .
he al sv em ad on ge 23 vs er as - er .
es ii nd ii ow he on or ts or on ng he ed et on es de - ed in on v - c , le le iv es ts or ng he ed et on od ed in on v - d , or ng rs of rs rs .
wn in ch ne is he er of ed ts or ch le er nd he or of he ed 23 - ss ne .
in ll rs ms , he al sv ld as ed on he ng et .
or he od of on v - c , ss - ns , at or ch ry er , we ed rt rs il on ge re t; or he od of on on v - d , at we ed ch on on ng ps ng he ed on re ) .
or ge , i . e . , ll ns of he on ns ty , he cy of he al em an be ap -
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
an ed or of ed es us er of es ed , or el ca nd ar ca .
el ca ts es nd as he al to ze re es to de re er an se .
re , it ms ar ca ng if a ly ge er of es is ed .
rs of st rs or ch ry er , nd st or
es or 23 - ss on ng he rs od of on
on v - c . 23
op : rs of vs or he al sv bf - em .
om , st ow : al sv em , th 23 vs on e;
ng ws : ms th ng ge rs of rs
rs .
in he em ss - n , al ns of vs re ed om ch er ch at on ge , n rs rs re ft
rs of st rs or ch ry er , nd st or es or en - ss on ng he rs od of on v - c . 23 ( ci = =j ij ) : st ow : al sv em , th 23 vs on e; ng ws : ms th ng ge rs of
rs rs .
in he em 23 - n , as ed ch at he ge er of rs rs ft as n ( he nt , en
in es , as en ch at he rs n re
le to le ii ) .
he ts an be er ed ng he od of on v - 23 ( ci = = xj j j i j ) : or
ce , ng ut 23 on rs ( ch is he me er at we et en ng he on of ll vs in he 23 23 em ) , is ed to an ed or te of 3%
ed ly th th es .
in es ii nd ii , we ee at al of ut 3% of he rt rs es he or ly ed .
ng he rs of rt rs er an ad to ge ce es .
he ed et on od , ch is ta - ly nd ly re ex , ms er in is on as it is le to ze rs nt om he al rt ns in he on .
to et a up by a or of en , we ve to se a em th 23 rs rs ( sc - 23 ) .
or he od in le iv , cy ly ps ly om 3% to 3% , ch
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
te ay of ed et rs ed by he ve ch of on v - d or n = 23 , th ts ( op : er of it 23 , , om : it 23 ) .
te at ve ts ( ly ) nd to ve es in he on em .
er of st rs or ch ry er , nd st or
es or en - ss on ng he rs on od of on v - d .
st ow : al sv em , th 23 vs on ge ( ee so es ii nd ii ) ; ng ws : ms th ng rs of rs rs ( sc - n ds or n rs ed ) er ry er ,
ed by ng ne - rm ns , ly or
ch er .
st wo ws : th a nt al
nt nt , he ts an be er ed ( ee st )
he st se by ut wo rs of de ) : is ed to an or te of 3% .
or he ed el , is is st al to he al rs od , ch ed 3% ( or al ls , he er od ed to 3% at he me up ( 23 ) ) .
te at he al rs od ts he nd se ny es to ke re at he al um of he st on is ly nd , ch es it le at he al ts re ar .
ly , ig .
23 ws he rs - 23 rs of he en ry rs .
as an de , te at ke he ch of ( 23 ) , ur hm es es ch do ok ul ( i . e . ,
ms ng er ls ct ir ns in ms of ed ut is en wn , or oo ex to de ny on ut he on as ed ur ts to ce he ty of he on , ed in is er .
as an me se , we ve st ed ow to ox - ( i . e . , ow to nd an te ) , nd ed a ed - nt on hm
by a le
to rm he sk .
is ll ve th al al ks on at ta se ( 23 ) .
er , we an er ve is lt by ng he nd se of he al rs hm , re a al nt nt is ed in he ce ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ( ly re ve an
in ns re no od te ge ts , ne an ll ce he ty of ng it as a er on ve ed ds or ng he al ts or by ng he ve ge
nd or ng up th le ns
ng ng he
ch pf et al . : ut ce us re ce
th es of ns re of al st or re ce s; er , ey so ad to al ns .
in is er , we ve ed wo ch ns , ly , he em of al ng ia el ca on , nd he em of ng up sv on es .
we ss em in rn .
el ca ng : in ng ts on al - ld ta , we ed ts ly er an ng ar ca .
ur on of is ng is as ws .
ar ca an ct at st he ty of he ta .
ng a is rm , ll ts er ly be he ta .
if he ta re sy , is es at a in on of he ts ll be ed to he on of se .
el ca , on he er nd , ws he on of up to es , re he er of ng es .
ly , el ca an de a er er of es ng on ut he re in he ta ( in ur ts , we ad in on , if he re to be ed is ar , en ar ca st ly il , as we ve ed th
en ns nd ms de he ce of a le el or a en se on em , ly in on th he on es of he el ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) , he on of he ch to on , nd he on ( nd on ) to ve ar ng ds ( cf . , ( 23 ) ) .
ng up sv es : we ve wn ly at ur on ms an be ed to ed up sv es ly .
te at in he an bf se , he on an er be as od as he al , ce he el ix
as ll nk ( 23 ) .
as in ( 23 ) , od rs on ts re ed en gh he ve on id ot se to ro ( in ur rs on ts , it as ed by a or of 23 in he st se , ng on ow ny rs rs re d; he al nt nt ed er or ee ) .
we re at is is ue to he ng : in on , we re ot ed in
is he ng ty on of he ns ( cf . , ( 23 ) ) .
is is nt th he ct at he ce of a rs sv er an be ed by ng an al ld
he us rs on od ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) an be ed
or ny sv l; he ew ne is ed to
er , it is st , nd it ed to le rs es nd an ng on en ng nd ox - on in re es .
it rs ng to ue he on er is on ld be ed to rm re al es of ns of sv nd el ca ns by ng se of ns of le hs .
he rs on ds , on he er nd , re li - le or ny sv el .
in ur ts , ey ed to se on es an rs n; er , ey re er nd ly er .
ng he st wo rs on ds , he ne ed in on v - c . 23 as ly or at er s; er , he ne
en in on v - c . 23 is ly er ce ke he er , it es ot ve he vs ne at a me nd re it ed ot be ed .
er , we nd at it an be ed by ly ng al rs , ng to he en ry rs in a it
he ed ds re le to ny re ce hm ed on er ls .
or ce , we ld so ed up sv on es or el ca re rs .
er , we ct er es to en up in he re , as er el ds re ng ed in an ng er of ng nd al ng ms .
he rs ld ke to nk a .
ff or ul
