re wo in un fe le an de le ha sh th be - in ab to tr la mo ca dr im pe .
in th pa , we co th pr of tr a de ne wi bi of pa us te of th of cp co .
we ha de a so fr ca di th ca ut co cl wi th of ma to tr la mo .
wi th fr , we ha de tw al fo la - sc di tr : ( i ) do sg , an as st gr de pr su a la nu of mo re , an ( ii ) sa , a fr th su a va of di ba op pr , in a di im of l - bf .
do sg an sa l - bf bo in th sc an sp of de ne tr - in .
we ha su us ou sy to tr a de ne 12 la th pr re in th li , an ac st - of - th - ar pe on im , a vi ob re ta wi 12 mi im an 12 ca - go .
we sh th th sa te dr ac th tr of a mo mo - si de ne fo a co sp re se - vi .
al we fo on an re pe of th me as ap to tr la ne ne , th un al ar ap to an gr - ba ma le al .
de le an un fe le ha sh gr pr in ma pr ap - pl .
st - of - th - ar pe ha be re in se do , ra fr sp re ( 12 , 12 ) , vi ob re ( 12 , 12 ) , to te pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
it ha al be ob th in th sc of de le , wi re to th nu of tr ex , th nu of mo pa , or bo , ca dr im ul cl ac ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th re ha le to a su of in in sc up th tr an in al us fo th mo ( 12 ) an in im ap op pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
th us of gp ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) is a si ad in re ye th ma th tr of mo si de ne pr .
a kn li of th gp ap is th th tr sp - up is sm wh th mo do no t in gp me ( ty le th 12 gi ) .
to us a gp ef , re of re th si of th da or pa so th cp - to - gp tr ar no a si bo .
wh da an pa re wo we fo sm pr ( e . g .
ac mo fo sp re ) , th ar le at fo pr wi a la nu of ex an di ( e . g . , hi - re im ) .
in th pa , we de an al ap : us la - sc cl of ma to di tr an in in de ne .
we ha de a so fr ca di - li th en mo pa wi a ma ( vi mu ) an ac ma ( vi
me pa ) , wi th de of pa , sy an co ma by th fr .
in ad to su mo pa , th di fr al su da pa , wh mu re of a mo ar us to op a si ob .
wi th fr , we ha de an im tw no me fo la - sc di tr : ( i ) do sg , an as st gr de pr wh le - ag ad le ra an su a la nu of mo re , an ( ii ) sa l - bf , a di im of l - bf th us bo da an mo pa . 12 bo do sg an sa l - bf en si sp ga co to mo co - ti im of sg an l - bf .
ou ex re se su re ab la - sc no op .
fi , as sg , ra ap to no pr , wo ve we fo tr de ne - wo , pa wh co wi ad ( 12 ) ad le ra .
se , we sh th gi su re , l - bf is co wi or fa th ma va of sg .
wi re to sp ap in de le , we re tw ma nd : th ou di - tr op ap ca bo gr ac th tr of mo si mo , an th it ca al tr mo th ar la th co be co ot .
to il th rs po , we sh th we ca us a cl of ma to tr a mo si sp mo to th sa cl ac in le th 12 / 12 th ti re on a gp .
to il th se po , we tr a la ne ne of mo th 12 bi pa an us th ne to dr im on st - of - th - ar pe on th im da , on of th la da in co vi .
12 pr wo
in re ye co an ac ma le da se ha gr at an un - de pa .
in re , a gr ma au ha ex sc up ma le al - ri th pa an di ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
mu of th re ha fo on li , co mo , wh di gr co is th na rs st .
wi th ar , so gr ha re sy re , ex de gr - en up fo co pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
in pa , ot gr wo on pr wi sp gr ( pr wh on a ti fr of th co of th gr ve ar no - ze fo an gi tr ex ) ha ex lo - le as st gr de on sh - me ar ( i . e .
si ma ) ( 12 , 12 ) .
we ar in in an ap th ca th be of bo wo , al th us of a cl of ma as co gr , bu wi re th th pr be ei co or sp .
in th co of de le , mo wo ha fo on tr re sm mo on a si ma ( e . g . , th ( 12 ) ) .
su fo sc up de le in th us of a fa of gp to tr a co of ma sm mo an su av th pr ( 12 ) , or mo st de ne to ma th in mo pa ( 12 ) .
ou fo is sc de le te in th di of tr ve la mo , th wi a fe bi pa , bu wi in re on th fo of th mo .
in sp ca wh on la do co , so au ha co di co in th on la an re co in th re la ( 12 ) .
bu in th ge ca wh ma la of th mo ar co in , fu mo pa in a sp si to ( 12 ) is re .
to be su , ho , we be th mo pa mu be co wi cl di op te th le da pa .
we co a nu of ex la - sc co to fo ap to ou pr - le , ma ( 12 ) an gr ( 12 ) be no ex .
we co th ma - du , de fo pa da pr , wa il - su fo th it co in in de ne tr wh gr , de fo ge ( un ) gr co , wo no ex co ef av in th st gr ty fo in de
12 im l - bf wi th sa fr , bu th ge ap is al su fo
a va of ot ba op me .
fi 12 : an ex of mo pa in di .
a ve la de ne ne wi lo co is sh he , pa ac fo ma ( bl re ) .
on th no wi ed th cr pa bo ( th li ) wi ne to ha th st tr be ma .
ev in ca wh a no ha mu ed cr a pa bo , it st is on se to th ma on th ot si of th bo on .
wi ea pa , co fo in no wi th pa ac al av cp co .
12 mo pa
to fa th tr of ve la de ne , we ha de a so fr , di , th su di co in ne ne an la gr mo .
th us de th co th ta pl at ea no in ea la of th mo , an th me th sh be pa du th up an do ph of co . 12 fo la mo , th us ma pa th mo ac se ma ( fi 12 ) , so th re - si fo th co fo di no is as to di ma .
th fr au pa co in ea ma us al av co , an ma co - mu , sy an da tr be ma du bo tr an in .
th pe be of di a de ne ac mu ma de on th co st an co ne of th mo .
mo wi a la nu of pa - et or hi co de ty be fr ac to mo cp an me , up to th po wh co co do .
we ha su ru la mo wi up to 12 pa in th di fr wi si sp , wh mo mo si mo sh de sp fo up to 12 or 12 pa .
( se se 12 , un th he mo pa be , fo ex re . ) ob , mo wi lo co st - tu te to be mo am to ex di th fu - co st , gi th lo co re .
th ty ca of le - th - id sp is va in pr ti ac th di ma , le to ma ma wa fo th si sl ma to ni a gi ph of co .
no , fo ou la mo , we ca ef us 12 ma wh ea ma ac an av cp ut of 12 co , fo a to of 12 cp co tr a si la ne ne .
wh co wi th di op al de in th ne se , wh ut mu re of th en ne ne , it is po to us te of th of cp co fo tr a si mo , le to si re in ov tr ti .
12 di op al
pa co wi th di fr al us to in an ru ne ne co la th ha be pr re .
bu in or to tr su la mo in a re am of ti , we ne to pa co no on wi a si
12 th ca of a ne ne up an do mi eq we be ca fe an
ba , wh fo a hi ma mo , th mi be mo fa as fo an ba .
ma 12 12 12 12 fi 12 : le : do sg .
mo re as fe pa w an pu gr - di w to th pa se .
ri : sa l - bf .
a si co se sm me to re an th pa se to or ba op .
in of th mo , bu to di tr ac mu mo in .
in th se we de th se le of pa , wh we em a se of di mo in , or re , to si so a si op pr .
we pr a co of tw la - sc di op pr : do sg , an on me , an sa l - bf , a ba me .
bo me le th co of a ce sh pa se , wh mo re us to sh th pa .
bo me ta ad of th di co di al wi ea in re .
bu mo im , bo me ar de to to va in th pr sp of di mo re , an ev th wh fa of mo re wh ma be ta of or re at ra .
in a se , th tw op al im an in ve of da pa .
bo ap al us to si pr di tr ex in ea of th ma mo re , an pe co th re to op ou ob fu .
12 do sg
st gr de ( sg ) is pe th mo co us op pr fo tr de ne ne ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
un , th tr fo of sg is in se , ma it im to ap to ve la da se wh th ti re to mo th th da in an en se fa is pr .
to ap sg to la da se , we in do sg , a va of as st - ti gr de th us mu re of a si di mo .
th ba ap is as fo : we di th tr da in a nu of su an ru a co of th mo on ea of th su .
th mo co up th a ce pa se , wh ke th cu st of al pa fo th mo , sh ac ma ma ( e . g . , if we ha 12 pa se sh , ea sh is re fo st an ap up to 12 / 12 of th mo pa ) ( fi 12 ) .
th ap is as in tw di as - pe : th mo re ru in of ea ot , an th pa se sh al ru in of on an .
in th si im , be pr ea mi - ba , a mo re as th pa - ra se se fo an up co of it mo pa .
be di mo ar th pa ac mu ma , ea ma ne to co wi ju th su of pa se sh th ho th mo pa re to it pa .
af re an up co of it pa , th di mo re pr a mi - ba of da to co a pa gr , an se th gr to th pa se , wh th ap th gr to th cu va of th mo pa .
it is po to re th co ov of do sg by li ea mo re to re up pa on ev nf et st an se up gr va on ev np st ( wh nf et mi no be eq to np ) .
in fa , th pr of fe
pa se = w - ww se ( sm me ) pa , pu gr , an pr tr da ca be ca ou in th on we sy th ( se th ap fo ps ) .
in th ex re be we xe nf et = np = 12 fo si an ea of co to tr sg .
do sg is mo ro to ma fa th st ( sy ) sg .
fo sy - ch sg , if on ma fa , th en tr pr is de wh fo as sg , if on ma in a mo re fa , th ot mo re co pr th tr da an up th mo pa vi th pa se .
on th ot ha , th mu fo of as pr in do sg in a gr de of ad st in th op pr .
mo ob , a mo re is al ce co it gr ba on a se of pa th ar sl ou of da , in th so ot mo re wi li ha up th pa on th pa se in th me .
bu th ar se ot so of st be th : be th pa se sh ac in , th is no gu th at an gi mo th pa on ea sh of th pa se ha un th sa nu of up , or th th up we ap in th sa or .
mo , be th mo re ar pe to fe pa an pu gr in se th , th ma be ad su in in th ti of pa .
th is li th gr fo th sa of th op fo no pr , bu in pr we fo re co re to be re ef .
on te th we ha fo to gr in th ro of do sg is th us of th ad ( 12 ) ad le ra pr .
ra th us a si xe le ra on th pa se ( in fi 12 ) , ad us a se ad le ra fo ea pa .
le i , k be th le ra of th i - th pa at it k an wi , k it gr , th we se : i , k = / 12
be th le ra ar co on fr th su sq gr of ea pa , ad is ea im lo wi ea pa se sh .
th va of , th co sc fa fo al le ra , is ge la ( pe by an or of ma ) th th be xe le ra us wi ad .
th us of ad ex th ma nu of mo re th ca pr wo si , an co wi a pr of wa mo tr wi on a si mo re be un th ot re , it ha vi el st co in tr de ne us do sg ( se re in se 12 ) .
12 sa l - bf
ba me ha be sh to wo we in tr sm de ne ( 12 ) .
to ap th me to la mo an la da , we in th sa ba op fr - wo an di an im of l - bf us th fr .
a ke id in sa is di pa st an ma .
th co of th op - mi al ( e . g l - bf ) re in a co pr ( fi 12 ) , wh do no ha di ac to th mo pa .
in , th co is co dr fr a sm se of op ( e . g . , do pr , sc , co - wi ad , mu ) th ca be pe by ea pa se sh in , wi th re be st lo on th sa sh .
ad in , e . g th hi ca fo l - bf , is al st on th pa se sh on wh it wa co .
th al ru la mo ( bi of pa ) wi in th ov of se al th pa an gr to a si ce se .
( se th ap fo ps . ) in ty pa im of l - bf , da is di to ma ma an ea ma is re fo co th gr on a sp su of da ex .
th gr - di ar se ba to a ce se ( or ag vi a tr ( 12 ) ) .
ma su me wa fo th sl ma , an th do no sc we to la sh cl .
to ac fo th pr , we em th fo lo ba sc : th co as ea of th n mo re a sm po of wo , mu sm th 12 / nt of th to si of a ba , an as re ne po wh th ar fr .
wi th ap , fa mo re do mo wo th sl re .
to fu ma sl mo re at th en of a ba , th co sc mu co of th ou po an us th re fr wh mo re ni rs .
th sc is si to th us of ba ta in th ma fr ( 12 ) .
pr of da , al wi su da af by as se
po of da to th sa wo ma da ac a no - is .
in co wi do sg , wh re re hi fr , hi ba pa sy wi th pa se , sa wo on fe pa at th be of ea ba ( wh th ha be up by th co ) , an on se th gr ev fe co po - ti ( to pr ag re fa an re ) .
we ev ou op al by ap th to tr mo fo tw di de le pr : ob re in st im an ac pr fo sp re .
th sp re ta wa to cl th ce re ( or fr ) in a sh sn of au as on of se th ac st .
we us a de ne wi ve la : fo hi la wi si ac an 12 no ea , an a so ou la wi 12 no .
th in re wa 12 co ov 12 ms fr of sp , ea re by 12 lo - en va .
th ne wa fu - co la - to - la , fo a to of ap 12 mi mo pa .
we tr on a da se of 12 bi we la ex , an ev on a ho ou te se .
se ( 12 ) fo si de ne co an tr fo vi ob re we tr a la ne ne wi lo - co re el on th im da se of 12 mi im , ea of wh we sc to 12 pi ( 12 ) .
th ne ha th st , ea co of lt , po an lo co no , wh ea no in th lt la wa co to a 12 pa in th la be .
ou in al ma no to co to th sa in pa , an we ra ex va th nu of id co no fr 12 to 12
th ou la co of 12 th on - vs - al lo cl no , on fo ea of th im ob ca .
se ( 12 ) fo si de ne co an tr pr .
mo pa be : to ex th sc be of di mo pa ( se 12 ) , we me th me ti to pr a si mi - ba fo si sg tr as a fu of th nu of pa ( ma ) us in a si mo in .
in fi 12 we qu th im of pa ac n ma by re th av tr sp - up : th ra of th ti ta us on a si ma to th ti ta us n .
sp fo in st in th mo ar si an ar no sh he .
th mo si sp mo ru fa on 12 ma , co 12 fa th us a si ma .
( mo we co to us no mo th 12 co pe ma . ) pa
fi 12 : tr sp - up fo fo di de ne as a fu of ma al to a si di mo in .
mo wi mo pa be mo fr th us of ad ma th do mo wi fe pa .
12 pe mo in sp ( ci : 12 ) up sp : 12 pa : 12 pa : 12 pa : 12 pa fi 12 : le : tr ac ( on a po of th tr se ) fo di op me - od .
ri : cl ac on th ho ou te se as a fu of tr ti .
do an sa ex in us th sa 12 ho wa of si sg .
th mo on mo th 12 ma ac sl tr , as ne ov st to do in th fu - co ne st an th is le wo fo ea ma to pe wi in co , th mu la , lo - co im mo ca be fr us ma mo ma pe mo re .
th la mo , wi 12 bi pa be th mo , gi a sp of mo th 12 us 12 ma .
fo th la mo us mo ma co to in sp , bu wi di re .
op me co : to ev th pr di op pr - du , we ra th sp mo de ab in a va of co .
we co tw ba op pr : tr a di mo ( on 12 pa ) us co ( si re ) sg , an tr th id mo on a gp us cu ( 12 ) .
th th di - tr op me we co to th ba me ar : do sg wi a xe le ra , do sg wi ad le ra , an sa l - bf .
fi 12 sh cl pe as a fu of tr ti fo ea of th me on bo th tr an te se .
ou go is to ob th ma te se ac in th mi am of tr ti , re of re re .
co si re sg ( bl cu ) is th sl to tr .
do sg wi 12 mo re ( bl cu ) sh a si im .
do sg wi 12 re pl ad ( or cu ) is mo fa .
sa l - bf us 12 mo re ( gr cu ) is co fa ye ag .
th fa , ho , is do sg pl ad wi 12 mo re ( re cu ) .
gi ac to su cp re , bo sa l - bf an do sg wi ad ca tr mo su fa th a hi pe gp .
th we di no co th ab ex to a xe re bu , it is in to co ho th va me tr of re co fo pe .
we an th by ar ch a xe te se ac ( 12 ) , an me th ti ea me to to re th ac as a fu of ma an ut cp co , fi 12
on of th fo po on ea tr co to a tr co sh in fi 12 , th ot th po ar al co .
in th pl , po cl to th or ar pr in th th ta le ti wh us fe re - so .
in th re do sg us ad ap to be th be tr - of : fo an xe bu of ma or co , do sg wi ad ta le ti to re th ac ta th ei do sg wi a xe le ra or sa l - bf .
fo an al tr ti to re th ac ta , do sg wi ad us fe re th sa l - bf , an in ma ca do sg wi a xe le ra co no ev re th ta wi th de .
th sa l - bf sy do sh pr in te
12 ( ho ) av fr ac ( % ) ac on tr se sg ( 12 ) do ( 12 ) do ( 12 ) w / ad lb ( 12 ) 12 ( ho ) av fr ac ( % ) ac on te se sg ( 12 ) gp ( 12 ) do ( 12 ) do ( 12 ) w / ad ( 12 ) w / ad lb ( 12 ) fi 12 : ti to re a xe ac ( 12 ) fo di op st as a fu of nu of th ma ( le ) an co ( ri ) .
of it sc wi ad co , su th it ma ul pr th fa tr ti if us wi an ex la re bu ( e . g . , 12 co ) .
ap to im : th pr ex de th ou te ca ac - er th tr of ne ne wi te of mi of pa .
ho , th mo si - ni ad of ou cl - ba ap to di op is it ab to sc to mo th ar mu la th ca be co t on si ma , le al a si gp .
as a rs st to ex th ca of ve la ne ne , we us do sg to tr th 12 bi pa im mo de ab on th im ob cl - ca ta .
as de in ( 12 ) , th ne ac a cr - va cl ac of ov 12 , a re im ov 12 fr th be pe we ar aw of on th 12 ca im cl ta .
in th pa we in di , a fr fo pa di tr of de ne - wo .
wi th fr , we di se ef di op st .
we fo th do sg , a hi as va of sg wo su we fo tr no de le mo .
sa l - bf , a di im of l - bf , ca be co wi sg , an it mo ef us of ne ba en it to sc to a la nu of co co fo tr a si mo .
th sa , th co - na of do sg wi th ad ad le ra pr em as th cl do me wh wo wi a co bu of 12 cp co or le .
ad wa no or de to be us wi as sg , an ne me is ty ap to no pr .
it is su , th , th th wo so we to , an on hi no de ne .
we co th ad au st vo pa in th fa of th ur of as up , an na ad le ra to th de of di la in th de ne .
ou ex sh th ou ne la - sc tr me ca us a cl of ma to tr ev mo si de ne si fa th a gp , an wi th gp li on th ma si of th mo .
to de th va of be ab to tr la mo , we ha tr a mo wi ov 12 bi pa to ac be th st - of - th - ar pe on th im ob re ch .
th au wo li to th sa be , to de , jo du , yu ne , pa ng , yo si , se th , an vi va fo th in ad , su , an co .
