sin - wor vec spa mod hav bee ver suc at lea lex inf - tio .
how , the can cap the com - pos mea of lon phr , pre - ing the fro a dee und of lan - gua .
we int a rec neu net - wor ( rnn ) mod tha lea com vec rep for phr and sen - ten of arb syn typ and len .
our mod ass a vec and a mat to ev - ery nod in a par tre : the vec cap the inh mea of the con , whi the mat cap how it cha the mea - ing of nei wor or phr .
thi mat - vec rnn can lea the mea of ope in pro log and nat lan .
the mod obt sta of the art per on thr dif exp : pre ne - gra sen dis of adv - adj pai cla sen - men lab of mov rev and cla sem rel suc as cau - eff or top - mes bet nou usi the syn - tac pat bet the .
sem wor vec spa are at the cor of man use nat lan app suc as sea que exp ( jon et al . , 123 ) , fac ext - tio for inf ret ( pas et al . , 123 ) and aut ann of tex wit dis wik lin ( rat et al . , 123 ) , amo man oth ( tur and pan , 123 ) .
in the mod - els the mea of a wor is enc as a vec com fro co - occ sta of a wor and its nei wor .
suc vec hav bee sho to cor wel wit hum jud of wor sim ( gri et al . , 123 ) .
fig 123 : a rec neu net whi lea se - man vec rep of phr in a tre str - tur .
eac wor and phr is rep by a vec and a mat , e . g . , ver = ( a , a ) .
the mat is app to nei vec .
the sam fun is rep to com the phr ver goo wit mov .
des the suc , sin wor vec mod are sev lim sin the do not cap com - pos , the imp qua of nat lan - gua tha all spe to det the mea of a lon exp bas on the mea of its wor and the rul use to com the ( fre , 123 ) .
thi pre the fro gai a dee und of the sem of lon phr or sen .
rec , the has bee muc pro in cap com in vec spa , e . g . , ( mit and lap , 123 bar and zam , 123 zan et al . , 123 yes and car , 123 soc et al . , 123 ) ( see rel wor ) .
we ext the app wit a mor gen and pow mod of sem com .
we pre a nov rec neu net mod for sem com .
in our con , com is the abi to lea com vec rep for var typ of phr and sen of arb len .
123 sho an ill of the mod in whi eac con ( a wor or lon phr ) has a mat - vec ( mv )
ver goo mov . . .
( a , a ) ( b , b ) ( c , c ) rec mat - vec mod ( ba , ab ) = ba= ab= - vec - mat . . . rep .
the vec cap the mea of tha con .
the mat cap how it mod the mea of the oth wor tha it com wit .
a rep for a lon phr is com bot - up by rec com the wor ac - cor to the syn str of a par tre .
sin the mod use the mv rep wit a neu net as the nal mer fun , we cal our mod a mat - vec rec neu net
we sho tha the abi to cap sem com - pos in a syn pla way tra - lat int sta of the art per on var tas .
the rst exp dem tha our mod can lea ne - gra sem com - ali .
the tas is to pre a sen dis ove mov rev of adv - adj pai suc as unb sad or rea awe .
the mv - rnn is the onl mod tha is abl to pro neg sen - tim whe adj are com wit not .
the mv - rnn out pre sta of the art mod - els on ful sen sen pre of mov rev .
the las exp sho tha the mv - rnn can als be use to nd rel bet wor usi the lea phr vec .
the rel - tio bet wor is rec con and com by wor of arb typ in the var len syn pat bet the .
on the ass tas of cla rel be - twe nou in arb pos of a sen the mod out all pre app on the sem - 123 tas 123 com ( hen et al . , 123 ) .
it out all but one of the pre ap - pro wit usi any han - des sem res suc as wor or fra .
by add wor hyp , pos and ner tag our mod out the sta of the art tha use sig mor res .
the cod for our mod is ava
123 mv - rnn : a rec mat - vec
the dom app for bui rep of mul - wor uni fro sin wor vec rep - sen has bee to for a lin com of the sin wor rep , suc as a sum or wei ave .
thi hap in inf re -
tri and in var tex sim fun bas on lex sim .
the app can wor wel whe the mea of a tex is lit the sum of its par , but fai whe wor fun as ope - ato tha mod the mea of ano wor : the mea of ext str can be cap as the sum of wor rep for ext
the mod of soc et al .
( 123 ) pro a new pos for mov bey a lin com - nat , thr use of a mat w tha mul the wor vec ( a , b ) , and a non fun g ( suc as a sig or tan ) .
the com the par vec p tha des bot wor as
and app thi fun rec ins a bin par tre so tha it can com vec for mul - wor seq .
eve tho the non al - low to exp a wid ran of fun , it is al - mos cer too muc to exp a sin xed w mat to be abl to cap the mea com - tio eff of all nat lan ope .
aft all , ins the fun g , we hav the sam lin tra for all pos pai of wor vec .
rec wor has sta to cap the beh of nat lan ope ins sem vec - tor spa by mod the as mat , whi wou all a mat for ext to app - ate mod vec for sme or str ( ba - ron and zam , 123 zan et al . , 123 ) .
the app are alo the rig lin but so far hav bee res to cap lin fun of pai of wor whe we wou lik non fun to com com mea rep - sen for mul - wor phr or ful sen .
the mv - rnn com the str of bot of the ide by ( i ) ass a vec and a mat to eve wor and ( ii ) lea an inp - spe , non - lin , com fun for com vec and mat rep for mul - wor seq of any syn typ .
ass vec - mat rep - res to all wor ins of onl to wor of one par of spe cat all for gre ex - ibi whi ben per .
if a wor lac ope sem , its mat can be an ide ma - tri .
how , if a wor act mai as an ope ,
suc as ext , its vec can bec clo to zer , whi its mat gai a cle ope mea - ing , her mag the mea of the mod wor in bot pos and neg dir .
in thi sec we des the ini wor rep - res , the det of com two wor as wel as the mul - wor ext .
thi is fol by an exp of our tra pro .
123 mat - vec neu wor rep we rep a wor as bot a con vec and a mat of par .
we ini all wor vec x rn wit pre - tra 123 - dim wor vec fro the uns mod of col - lob and wes ( 123 ) .
usi wik tex , the mod lea wor vec by pre how lik it is for eac wor to occ in its con .
sim - ila to oth loc co - occ bas vec spa mod , the res wor vec cap syn and sem inf .
eve wor is als ass - cia wit a mat x .
in all exp , we ini - tia mat as x = i + , i . e . , the ide plu a sma amo of gau noi .
if the vec hav dim n , the eac wor mat has di - men x rnn .
whi the ini is ran , the vec and mat wil sub be mod to ena a seq of wor to com - pos a vec tha can pre a dis ove se - man lab .
hen , we rep any phr or sen of len m as an ord lis of vec - mat pai ( ( a , a ) , .
, ( m , m ) ) , whe eac pai is ret bas on the wor at tha pos .
123 com mod for two wor we rst rev com fun for two wor .
in ord to com a par vec p fro two con wor and the res vec a and b , mit and lap ( 123 ) giv as the mos gen fun : p = f ( a , b , r , k ) , whe r is the a - pri kno syn rel and k is
the are man pos fun f .
for our mod , the is a con on p whi is tha it has the sam dim as eac of the inp vec .
thi way , we can com p eas wit its chi and p can be the inp to a com wit ano wor .
the lat is a req tha wil bec cle in the nex sec .
thi exc
ten pro whi wer out by sim - ple wei add and mul met in ( mit and lap , 123 ) .
we wil exp met tha do not req any man des sem res as bac - gro kno k .
no exp kno abo the typ of rel r is use .
ins we wan the mod to cap thi imp via the lea ma - tri .
we pro the fol com fun - tio whi is inp dep :
p = fa , b ( a , b ) = f ( ba , ab ) = g
whe a , b are mat for sin wor , the glo w rn1 is a mat tha map bot tra wor bac int the sam n - dim spa .
the ele - wis fun g cou be sim the ide fun but we use ins a non suc as the sig or hyp tan tan .
suc a non - lin wil all us to app a wid ran of fun bey pur lin fun .
we can als add a bia ter bef app g but omi thi for cla .
rew the two tra vec as one vec z , we get p = g ( w z ) whi is a sin lay neu net .
in thi mod , the wor ma - tri can cap com eff spe to eac wor , whe w cap a gen com -
thi fun bui upo and gen sev rec mod in the lit .
the mos rel wor is tha of ( mit and lap , 123 zan - zot et al . , 123 ) who int and exp the com fun p = ba + ab for wor pai .
thi mod is a spe cas of eq .
123 whe we set w = ( ii ) ( i . e .
two con ide mat - ces ) and g ( x ) = x ( the ide fun ) .
bar and zam ( 123 ) com the par vec of adj - nou pai by p = ab , whe a is an adj mat and b is a vec for a nou .
thi can cap nou mod oth nou , e . g . , dis dri .
thi mod too is a spe cas of the abo mod wit b = 123 .
las , the mod of ( soc et al . , 123 soc et al . , 123 soc et al . , 123 ) as des abo are als spe cas wit bot a and b set to the ide mat .
we wil com to the spe cas in our exp .
ba , whi we nam the lin mat - vec re - cur mod ( lin mvr ) .
pre , thi mod had not bee tra for mul - wor seq .
123 tal abo alt for com .
123 obj fun for tra one of the adv of rnn - bas mod is tha eac nod of a tre has ass wit it a dis - tri vec rep ( the par vec p ) whi can als be see as fea des tha phr .
we tra the rep by add on top of eac par nod a sim sof cla to pre a cla dis ove , e . g . , sen or rel cla : d ( p ) = sof ( w lab ) .
if the are k lab , the d rk is a k - dim mul dis .
for the app bel ( exc log ) , the cor err fun e ( s , t , ) tha we min for a sen s and its tre t is the sum of cro - ent err at all nod .
the onl oth met tha use thi typ of ob - jec fun are ( soc et al . , 123 soc et al . , 123 ) , who als com it wit eit a sco or rec err .
hen , for com - iso to oth rel wor , we nee to mer var - ati of com the par vec p wit thi cla .
the mai dif is tha the mv - rnn has mor exi sin it has an inp spe re - cur fun fa , b to com eac par .
the fol app , we wil use the sof cla to pre bot sen dis and
let = ( w , wm , w lab , l , lm ) be our mod pa - ram and a vec wit reg hyp - ram for all mod par .
l and lm are the set of all wor vec and wor mat .
the gra - die of the ove obj fun j bec :
e ( x , t; )
to com thi gra , we rst com all tre nod ( pi , pi ) fro the bot - up and the tak der of the sof cla at eac nod in the tre fro the top dow .
der are com - put efc via bac thr str - tur ( gol and kuc , 123 ) .
eve tho the
fig 123 : exa of how the mv - rnn mer a phr wit ano wor at a non nod of a par tre .
123 rec com of mul wor
thi sec des how we ext a wor - pai mat - vec - bas com mod to lea vec and mat for lon seq of wor .
the mai ide is to app the sam fun f to pai of con in a par tre .
for thi to wor , we nee to tak as inp a bin par tre of a phr or sen and als com mat at eac non par nod .
the fun f can be rea use for phr vec sin it is rec - siv com ( p has the sam dim as its chi ) .
for com non phr ma - tri , we den the fun
p = fm ( a , b ) = wm
whe wm rn1 , so p rnn jus lik eac
aft two wor for a con in the par tre , thi con can now be mer wit an - oth one by app the sam fun f and fm .
for ins , to com the vec and ma - tri dep in fig .
123 , we rst mer wor a and b and the mat : p12 = f ( ba , ab ) , p12 = fm ( a , b ) .
the res vec - mat pai ( p12 , p12 ) can now be use to com the ful phr whe com it wit wor c and com p12 = f ( cp1 , p12 ) , p12 = fm ( p12 , c ) .
the mod com - put vec and mat in a bot - up fas , app the fun f , fm to its own pre out - put ( i . e .
rec ) unt it rea the top nod of the tre whi rep the ent sen .
for exp wit lon seq we wil com to sta rnn and the spe cas of the mv - rnn tha com the par by p = ab +
ver goo mov ( a , a ) ( b , b ) ( c , c ) mat - vec rec neu net ( p12 , p12 ) ( p12 , p12 ) p12 = g ( w ) p12 = wmc p12 ( ) p12 ( ) obj is not con , we fou tha l - bfg run ove the com tra dat ( bat mod ) min - miz the obj wel in pra and con is smo .
for mor inf see ( soc et al . ,
123 low - ran mat app if eve wor is rep by an n - dim vec and add by an n n mat , the di - men of the who mod may bec too lar wit com use vec siz of n = 123
in ord to red the num of par , we rep - res wor mat by the fol low - ran plu
a = u v + dia ( a ) ,
whe u rnr , v rrn , a rn and we set the ran for all exp to r = 123
123 dis : eva and gen eva of com vec spa is a com - ple tas .
mos rel wor com sim jud of uns mod to tho of hu - man jud and aim at hig cor .
the eva can giv imp ins .
how , eve wit goo cor the que rem how the mod wou per on dow nlp tas suc as sen det .
we ex - per wit uns lea of gen vec - mat rep by hav the mv - rnn pre wor in the cor con .
tia the mod wit the gen rep - tio , did not imp the per on the tas we con .
for sen ana , thi is not sur - pri sin ant oft get sim vec dur - ing uns lea fro co - occ due to hig sim of loc syn con .
in our exp , the hig pre per cam fro sup lea of mea rep usi lab dat .
whi the rep are tas - spe , the cou be use acr tas in a mul - tas lea set .
how , in ord to fai com to rel wor , we use onl the sup - vis dat of eac tas .
bef we des our ful - sca exp , we ana the mod exp -
123 mod ana
thi sec ana the mod wit two pro - of - con stu .
fir , we exa its abi to lea ope sem for adv - adj pai .
if a mod can cor cap how an adv op - era on the mea of adj , the the lit - tle cha it can lea ope for mor com rel .
the sec stu ana whe the mv - rnn can lea sim boo ope of pro log suc as con or neg fro tru val .
aga , if a mod did not hav thi abi , the the lit cha it cou lea the fre occ phe fro the noi lan - gua of rea tex suc as mov rev .
123 pre sen dis of
the rst stu con the pre of ne - gra sen dis of adv - adj pai and ana dif pos for com - put the par vec p .
the res sho tha the mv - rnn ope are pow eno to cap - tur the ope mea of var typ of ad - ver .
for exa , ver is an int , pre is an att , and not can neg or str att the pos of an adj .
for ins not gre is sti pre goo and not ter see pot ( 123 )
we use a pub ava imd dat of ex - tra adv - adj pai fro mov rev . 123 the dat pro the dis ove sta rat - ing : eac con wor pai app a cer num of tim in rev tha hav als ass - ate wit the an ove rat of the mov .
aft nor by the tot num of occ , one get a mul dis ove rat .
onl wor pai tha app at lea 123 tim are kep .
of the rem pai , we use 123 ran sam one for tra and a sep set of 123 for tes - ing .
we nev giv the alg sen dis - tio for sin wor , and , whi sin wor ove - lap bet tra and tes , the tes set con of nev bef see wor pai .
the sof cla is tra to min the cro ent err .
hen , an eva in ter of kl - div is the mos rea cho
123 ( a + b )
p = 123 p = a b p = ( a; b ) p = ab
fig 123 : lef : ave kl - div for pre sen dis of uns adv - adj pai of the tes set .
see tex for p des .
low is bet .
the mai dif in the kl div com fro the few neg pai in the tes set .
rig : pre sen dis ( ove 123 - 123 sta on the x - axi ) of adv - adj pai .
eac row has the sam adv and eac col the sam adj .
man pre are sim bet the two mod .
the rnn and lin mvr are not abl to mod the sen cor : not awe is mor pos tha fai awe and not ann has a sim sha as unb ann .
pre of the lin mvr mod are alm ide to the sta rnn for the exa .
den as kl ( g|| ) = ( cid : 123 )
i gi log ( gi / pi ) , whe g is
the gol dis and p is the pre one .
p = 123 ( a + b ) , vec ave
we com to sev bas and abl of the mv - rnn mod .
an ( adv , adj ) pai is des by its vec ( a , b ) and mat ( a , b ) .
p = a b , ele - wis vec mul 123
p = ( a; b ) , vec con 123
p = ab , sim to ( bar and len , 123 ) 123
p = g ( w ( a; b ) ) , rnn , sim to soc et al .
p = ab + ba , lin mvr , sim to ( mit and lap , 123 zan et al . , 123 ) 123
p = g ( w ( ba; ab ) ) , mv - rnn the nal dis is alw pre by a sof cla who inp p var for eac of the mod .
thi obj fun ( see sec .
123 ) is dif to all pre pub wor exc tha of ( soc et al . , 123 ) .
we cro - val all mod ove reg - tio par for wor vec , the sof cla - the rnn par w and the wor op - era ( 123 , 123 ) and wor vec siz ( n = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
all mod per bes at vec siz of bel 123
hen , it is the mod pow and not the num of par tha det -
min the per .
the tab in fig .
123 sho the ave kl - div on the tes set .
it sho tha the ide of mat - vec rep for all wor and hav a non are bot imp - tan .
the mv - rnn whi com the two ide is bes abl to lea the var com ef - fec .
the mai dif in kl div com fro the few neg cas in the tes set .
123 sho exa of pre dis .
man of the pre are acc and sim bet the top mod .
how , onl the mv - rnn has eno exp pow to all neg to com - ple shi the sen wit res to an adj - tiv .
a neg adj car neg sen - men bec sli pos , whe not awe - som is cor att .
all thr top mod cor cap the u - sha of unb sad .
thi pai pea at bot the neg and pos spe bec it is amb .
whe ref to the per of act , it is ver neg , but , whe tal abo the plo , man peo enj sad and tho - pro mov .
the p = ab mod doe not per wel bec it can mod the fac tha for an adj lik sad , the ope of unb beh dif .
123 . 123 . 123 ann mvr . 123 . 123 awe mvr . 123 . 123 sad mvr . 123 . 123 ann mvr . 123 . 123 awe mvr . 123 . 123 sad tra pai . 123 . 123 ann mvr . 123 . 123 awe mvr . 123 . 123 sad mvr fal
fig 123 : tra tre for the mv - rnn to lea pro ope .
the mod lea vec and ope for ( and ) and ( neg ) .
the mod out the exa rep of fal and tru res at the top nod .
hen , the ope can be com rec an arb num of tim for mor com log fun .
123 log - and vec - bas com ano nat que is whe the mv - rnn can , in gen , cap som of the sim boo log tha is som fou in lan .
in oth wor , can it lea som of the pro log ope suc as and , or , not in ter of vec and mat fro a few exa .
ans thi que - tio can als be see as a rst ste tow bri - ing the gap bet log - bas , for sem ( mon , 123 ) and vec spa mod .
the log - bas vie of lan acc nic for com by dir map syn - tic con to lam cal exp .
at the wor lev , the foc is on fun wor , and nou and adj are oft den onl in ter of the set of ent the den in the wor .
mos wor are tre as ato sym wit no rel - tio to eac oth .
the hav bee man att at aut par nat lan to a log - cal for usi rec com rul .
con , vec spa mod hav the att - tiv pro tha the can aut ext kno fro lar cor wit sup .
unl log - bas app , the mod all us to mak ne - gra sta abo the sem - tic sim of wor whi cor wel wit hu - man jud ( gri et al . , 123 ) .
log - bas app are oft see as ort to dis - tio vec - bas app .
how , gar et al .
( 123 ) rec int a com of a vec spa mod ins a mar log net .
one ope que is whe vec - bas mod - els can lea som of the sim log enc in lan suc as neg or con .
to thi end , we ill in a sim exa tha our mv - rnn mod and its lea wor mat ( op - era ) hav the abi to lea pro log ope suc as , , ( and , or , not ) .
thi is a nec ( tho not suf ) con for the abi to pic up the phe in rea dat
and tas suc as sen det whi we fo - cus on in the sub sec .
our set is as fol .
we tra on 123 str rig - bra tre as in fig .
we con the 123 - dim cas and x the rep for tru to ( t = 123 , t = 123 ) and fal to ( f = 123 , f = 123 ) .
fix the ope to the 123 123 ide mat 123 is ess ign the .
the obj is the to cre a per rec of ( t , t ) or ( f , f ) ( dep on the for ) , whi we ach by the lea squ err bet the top vec rep - res and the cor tru val , e . g .
for f als : min t|| + ||p t||
as our fun g ( see eq .
123 ) , we use a lin thr uni : g ( x ) = max ( min ( x , 123 ) , 123 ) .
giv the der com for the obj fun for the exa in fig .
123 to a sta l - bfg op - tim qui yie a tra err of 123
hen , the out of the 123 exa has exa one of the tru rep , mak it rec com - ble wit fur com of ope .
thu , we can com the ope to con any pro - sit log fun of any num of inp ( in - clu xor ) .
hen , thi mv - rnn is com in ter of pro log .
123 pre mov rev rat in thi sec , we ana the mod per on ful len sen .
we com to pre sta of the art met on a sta ben dat of mov rev ( pan and lee , 123 nak - aga et al . , 123 soc et al . , 123 ) .
thi dat con of 123 , 123 pos and neg sin - gle sen des mov sen .
and the nex exp we use bin tre fro the sta par ( kle and man , 123 ) .
we use the exa sam set and par ( reg - tio , wor vec siz , etc . ) as the pub cod of soc et al .
( 123 ) . 123
tre - crf ( nak et al . , 123 ) rae ( soc et al . , 123 )
tab 123 : acc of cla on ful len mov rev pol ( mr ) .
rev sen
the lm is bri and ash in all the rig way .
not alw too whi for its own goo thi str hyb of cri thr , qui cha stu , thi - rat rom and fem emp fan nev rea nds the ton or the glu doe com clo to jus the hyp tha sur - rou its deb at the sun lm fes two dir hof , his wri and kli age sho ser det .
a bod - rip for int .
tab 123 : har mov rev exa of pos ( 123 ) and neg ( 123 ) sen ( s . ) tha of all met onl the mv - rnn pre cor ( c : ) or cou not cla as cor eit ( c : x ) .
tab 123 sho com to the sys of ( nak - aga et al . , 123 ) , a dep tre bas cla - cat met tha use crf wit hid var .
the sta of the art rec aut mod of soc et al .
( 123 ) obt 123 acc .
our new mv - rnn giv the hig per , out - per als the lin mvr ( sec
tab 123 sho sev har exa tha onl the mv - rnn was abl to cla cor .
non of the met cor cla the las two exa whi req mor wor kno .
123 cla of sem rel
the pre tas con glo cla of an ent phr or sen .
in our las exp we sho tha the mv - rnn can als lea how a syn - tac con com an agg mea of the sem rel bet wor .
in par , the tas is ndi sem rel bet pai of nom .
for ins , in the sen my ( apa ) e12 has a pre lar ( kit ) e12 , we wan to pre tha the kit and apa are in a com - who rel .
pre suc
fig 123 : the mv - rnn lea vec in the pat con - nec two wor ( dot lin ) to det the se - man rel .
it tak int con a var len seq of var wor typ in tha pat .
sem rel is use for inf ext - tio and the con app .
man app use fea for all wor on the pat bet the two wor of int .
we sho tha by bui a sin com sem for the min con inc bot ter one can ach a hig per .
thi tas req the abi to dea wit se - que of wor of arb typ and len in be - twe the two nou in que . fig .
123 exp our met for cla nom rel .
we rst nd the pat in the par tre bet the two wor who rel we wan to cla .
we the sel the hig nod of the pat and cla the rel usi tha nod vec as fea .
we app the sam typ of mv - rnn mod as in sen - men to the sub spa by the two wor .
we use the dat and eva fra of sem - 123 tas 123 ( hen et al . , 123 ) .
the are 123 ord rel ( wit two dir - tio ) and an und oth cla , res in 123 cla .
amo the rel are : mes - top , cau - eff , ins - age ( etc .
see ta - ble 123 for lis ) .
a pai is cou as cor if the ord of the wor in the rel is cor .
tab 123 lis res for sev com met - ods tog wit the res and fea use by eac met .
we com to the sys of the com whi are des in hen et al .
( 123 ) as wel as the rnn and lin mvr .
mos sys use a con amo of han - des sem res .
in con to the met , the mv - rnn onl nee a par for the tre str and lea all sem fro unl - bel cor and the tra dat .
onl the se - mev tra dat is spe to thi tas , the re -
the ( mov ) sho ( war ) mv - rnn for rel cla : mes - top rel
sen wit lab nou for whi to pre rel avi ( inu ) e12 is an inf dis cau by typ a str of the inu ( vir ) e12
the ( mot ) e12 lef her nat ( lan ) e12 abo the sam tim and the wer mar in tha cit .
roa ( att ) e12 are fre adv wit ( bil ) e12 to att tou .
a chi is tol a ( lie ) e12 for sev yea by the ( par ) e12 bef he / she rea tha . . .
the acc has spr ( oil ) e12 int the ( oce ) e12
the sie sta , wit a ( reg ) e12 of lig arm ( swo ) e12 ram dow the gat .
the cor of the ( ana ) e12 ide the pat usi the con pro ( met ) e12
the siz of a ( tre ) e12 ( cro ) e12 is str cor wit the gro of the tre .
the hid ( cam ) e12 , fou by a sec gua , was hid in a bus car - siz ( lea box ) e12 pla at an unm atm in tok min war in ear sep .
tab 123 : exa of cor cla of ord , sem rel bet nou by the mv - rnn .
not tha the nal cla is a rec , com fun of all the wor in the syn pat bet the bra wor .
the pat var in len and the wor var in typ .
pos , ste , syn pat wor pai , wor in bet pos , wor , ste , syn pos , wor , mor tur , the , goo n - gra pos , wor , mor tur , nou com sys , sau , goo n - gra pos , wor , pre and oth mor fea , pos , dep - den par fea , lev cla , pro , fra , nom - plu , goo n - gra , par , tex -
tab 123 : lea met , the fea set and f12 res for pre sem rel bet nou .
the mv - rnn out all but one met wit any add fea set .
by add thr suc fea , it obt sta of the art per .
mai inp and the tra set are the sam as in pre sen exp .
the bes met on thi dat har , 123 ) obt 123 f12
in ord to see whe our sys can imp ove thi sys - tem , we add thr fea to the mv - rnn vec - tor and tra ano sof cla .
the fea - tur and the per inc wer pos tag ( +12 ) ; wor hyp ( +12 ) and nam en -
tit tag ( ner ) of the two wor ( +12 ) .
fea wer com usi the cod of cia and al - tun ( 123 ) . 123 wit the fea , the per imp ove the sta of the art sys .
tab 123 sho ran cor cla exa .
123 rel wor
