abs .
a cri iss for the app of mar dec pro ( mdp ) to rea pro is how the com of pla sca wit the siz of the mdp .
in sto env wit ver lar or inn sta spa , tra pla and rei lea alg may be ina , sin the run tim typ gro lin wit the sta spa siz in the wor cas .
in thi pap we pre a new alg tha , giv onl a gen mod ( a nat and com typ of sim ) for an arb mdp , per on - lin , nea - opt pla wit a per - sta run tim tha has no dep on the num of sta .
the run tim is exp in the hor tim ( whi dep onl on the dis fac and the des deg of app to the opt pol ) .
our alg thu pro a dif com tra - off tha cla alg suc as val ite tha sca lin in bot hor tim and sta spa siz , our run tim tra an exp dep on the for in exc for no dep on the lat .
our alg is bas on the ide of spa sam .
we pro tha a ran sam loo - ahe tre tha cov onl a van fra of the ful loo - ahe tre nev suf to com nea - opt act fro any sta of an mdp .
pra imp of the alg are dis , and we dra tie to our rel rec res on ndi a nea - bes str fro a giv cla of str in ver lar par obs mdp ( kea , man , & ng .
neu inf pro sys 123 , to app ) .
rei lea , mar dec pro , pla
in the pas dec , mar dec pro ( mdp ) and rei lea hav bec a sta fra for pla and lea und unc wit the ar - tic int lit .
the des to att pro of inc com wit thi for has rec led res to foc par att on the cas of ( ex - pon or eve inn ) lar sta spa .
a num of int alg and rep sug hav bee mad for cop wit suc lar mdp .
fun
thi res was con whi the aut was at at& lab .
kea , y .
man , and a . y
app ( sut & bar , 123 ) is a wel - stu app to lea val fun - tio in lar sta spa , and man aut hav rec beg to stu the pro of lar mdp tha enj com rep , suc as mdp in whi the sta tra pro fac int a sma num of com ( bou , dea , & gol , 123 meu et al . , 123 kol & par , 123 ) .
in thi pap , we are int in the pro of com a nea - opt pol in a lar or inn mdp tha is giv is , we are int in pla .
it sho be cle tha as we con ver lar mdp , the cla pla ass tha the mdp is giv exp by tab of rew and tra pro bec inf .
one app to thi rep dif is to ass tha the mdp has som spe str tha per com rep ( suc as the fac tra pro - tie men abo ) , and to des spe - pur pla alg tha exp thi
her we tak a sli dif app .
we con a set in whi our pla alg is giv acc to a gen mod , or sim , of the mdp .
inf , thi is a bla box to whi we can giv any sta - act pai ( s , a ) , and rec in ret a ran sam nex sta and rew fro the dis ass wit ( s , a ) .
gen mod hav bee use in con wit som fun app sch ( sut & bar , 123 ) , and are a nat way in whi a lar mdp mig be spe .
mor , the are mor gen tha mos str rep , in the sen tha man str rep ( suc as fac mod ( bou , dea , & gol , 123 meu et al . , 123 kol & par , 123 ) ) usu pro an efc way of imp a gen mod .
not als tha gen mod als pro les inf tha exp tab of pro , but mor inf tha a sin con tra of exp gen acc to som exp pol , and so we vie res obt via gen mod as blu the dis bet wha is typ cal pla and lea in mdp .
our mai res is a new alg tha acc the giv gen mod to per nea - opt pla in an on - lin fas .
by on - lin , we mea tha , sim to rea - tim sea met ( kor , 123 bar , bra , & sin , 123 koe & sim , 123 ) , our alg com at any tim is foc on com an act for a sin cur sta , and pla is int wit tak act .
mor pre , giv any sta s , the alg use the gen mod to dra sam for man sta - act pai , and use the sam to com a nea - opt act fro s , whi is the exe .
the amo of tim req to com a nea - opt act fro any par sta s has no dep on the num of sta in the mdp , eve tho the nex - sta dis fro s may be ver dif ( tha is , hav lar sup ) .
the key to our ana is in sho tha app spa sam suf to con eno inf abo the env nea s to com a nea - opt act .
the ana rel on a com of bel equ cal , whi are sta in rei lea , and uni con arg , whi are sta in sup lea thi com of tec was rst app in kea and sin ( 123 ) .
as men , the run tim req at eac sta doe hav an exp dep on the hor tim , whi we sho to be una wit fur ass .
how , our res lea ope the
a spa sam alg
pos of an alg tha run in tim pol in the acc par , whi rem an imp ope pro .
not tha one can vie our pla alg as sim imp a ( sto ) pol pol tha hap to use a gen mod as a sub .
in thi sen , if we vie the gen mod as pro a com rep of the mdp , our alg pro a cor com rep of a nea - opt pol .
we vie our res as com to wor tha pro and exp par com rep of mdp ( meu et al . , 123 ) , wit bot lin of wor beg to dem the pot fea of pla and lea in ver lar env .
the rem of thi pap is str as fol : in sec 123 , we giv the for den nee in thi pap .
sec 123 the giv our mai res , an alg for pla in lar or inn mdp , who per - sta run tim doe not dep on the siz of the sta spa .
fin , sec 123 des rel res and ope pro .
we beg wit the den of a mar dec pro on a set of n =|s sta , exp all the pos of the num of sta bei ( cou or unc )
den 123
a mar dec pro m on a set of sta s and wit act ( a12 , .
, ak ) con of : tra pro : for eac sta - act pai ( s , a ) , a nex - sta dis psa ( s tha spe the pro of tra to eac sta s upo exe of act a fro rew dis : for eac sta - act pai ( s , a ) , a dis rsa on rea - val rew for exe act a fro sta s .
we ass rew are bou in abs val by rma .
for sim , we sha ass in thi pap tha all rew are in fac det is , the rew dis hav zer var , and thu the rew rec for exe a fro s is alw exa rsa .
how , all of our res hav eas gen for the cas of sto rew , wit an app and nec dep on the var of the rew dis .
thr the pap , we wil pri be int in mdp wit a ver lar ( or eve inn ) num of sta , thu pre app tha com dir on the ful nex - sta dis .
ins , we wil ass tha our pla alg are giv m in the for of the abi to sam the beh of m .
thu , the mod giv is sim rat tha exp .
we cal thi abi to sam the beh of m a gen mod .
den 123
a gen mod for a mar dec pro m is a ran alg tha , on inp of a sta - act pai ( s , a ) , out rsa and a sta s ran dra acc to the tra pro psa ( ) .
, whe s
kea , y .
man , and a . y
we thi of a gen mod as fal som in bet bei giv exp nex - sta dis , and bei giv onl irr exp in the mdp ( in whi the age fol a sin , con tra , wit no abi to res to any des sta ) .
on the one han , a gen mod may oft be ava whe exp nex - sta dis are not on the oth , a gen mod obv the imp iss of exp tha ari in a set whe we onl hav irr exp .
in thi sen , pla res usi gen mod blu the dis bet wha is typ cal pla and wha is typ cal lea .
fol sta ter , we den a ( sto ) pol to be any map : s ( cid : 123 ) ( a12 , .
thu ( s ) may be a ran var , but dep onl on the cur sta s .
we wil be pri con wit dis mdp , 123 so we ass we are giv a num 123 < 123 cal the dis fac , wit whi we the den the val fun v for any pol :
v ( s ) = e
whe ri is the rew rec on the ith ste of exe the pol fro sta s , and the exp is ove the tra pro and any ran in .
not tha for any s and any , |v ( s ) | vma , whe we den vma = rma / ( 123 ) .
we als den the q - fun for a giv pol as
q ( s , a ) = rsa + es ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ( v ( s ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) mea tha s
is dra acc to the dis psa ( ) ) .
( whe the not s we wil lat des an alg a tha tak as inp any sta s and ( sto ) out an act a , and whi the imp a pol .
whe we hav suc an alg , we wil als wri v to den the val fun and q - fun of the pol imp by a .
fin , we den the opt val fun and the opt ( s , a ) = sup q ( s , a ) , and the opt pol q - fun as v
( s ) = sup v ( s ) and q ( s , a ) for all s s .
, ( s ) = arg max q
pla in lar or inn mdp
usu , one con the pla pro in mdp to be tha of com a goo pol , giv as inp the tra pro psa ( ) and the rew rsa ( for ins , by sol the mdp for the opt pol ) .
thu , the inp is a com and exa mod , and the out is a tot map fro sta to act .
wit add ass abo the str of the mdp , suc an app is cle inf in ver lar sta spa , whe eve rea all of the inp can tak n 123 tim , and eve spe a gen pol req spa on the ord of n .
in suc mdp , a mor fru way of thi abo pla mig be an on - lin vie , in whi we exa the per - sta com of pla .
thu , the inp to a pla alg wou be a sin sta , and the out wou be whi
a spa sam alg
sin act to tak fro tha sta .
in thi on - lin vie , a pla alg is its sim a pol ( but one tha may nee to per som non com at eac sta ) .
our mai res is the des and ana of an alg a tha , giv acc to a gen mod for an arb mdp m , tak any sta of m as inp and pro an act as out , and mee the fol per cri : the pol imp by a is nea - opt in m; the run tim of a ( tha is , the tim req to com an act at any sta ) has
no dep on the num of sta of m .
thi res is obt und the ass tha the is an o ( 123 ) tim and spa way to ref to the sta , a sta ass kno as the uni cos mod ( aho , hop , & ull , 123 ) , tha is typ ado to all ana of alg tha ope on rea num ( suc as we req to all inn sta spa ) .
the uni cos mod ess pos the ava of inn - pre reg ( and con - siz cir for per the bas ari ope on the reg ) .
if one is unh wit thi mod , the alg a wil suf a dep on the num of sta onl equ to the spa req to nam the sta ( at wor log ( n ) for n sta ) .
a spa sam pla
her is our mai res : the 123
the is a ran alg a tha , giv acc to a gen mod for any k - act mdp m , tak as inp any sta s s and any val > 123 , out an act , and sat the fol two con : ( efc ) the run tim of a is o ( ( kc ) h ) , whe
h = ( cid : 123 ) log ( / vma ) ( cid : 123 ) , c = v 123 = ( ( 123 ) 123 ) / 123 , vma = rma / ( 123 ) .
in par , the run tim dep onl on rma , , and , and doe not dep on n =|s .
if we vie rma as a con , the run tim bou can als be wri
( nea - opt ) the val fun of the sto pol imp by a sat
sim for all sta s s .
kea , y .
man , and a . y
as we hav alr sug , it wil be hel to thi of alg a in two dif way .
on the one han , a is an alg tha tak a sta as inp and has acc to a gen mod , and as suc we sha be int in its res com run tim , and the num of cal it nee to mak to the gen mod ( bot per sta inp ) .
on the oth han , a pro an act as out in res to eac sta giv as inp , and thu imp a ( pos sto ) pol .
the pro of the 123 is giv in app a , and det pse - cod for the alg is pro in gur 123
we now giv som hig - lev int for the alg and its ana .
giv as inp a sta s , the alg mus use the gen mod to nd a nea - opt act to per fro sta s .
the bas ide of the alg is to sam the gen mod fro sta in the nei of s .
thi all us to con a sma fro s is a nea - opt act fro s in m . 123 the wil be no gua tha m wil con eno inf to com a goo act fro any sta oth tha s .
how , in exc for thi lim app , the mdp m wil hav a num of sta tha doe not dep on the num of sta
of m suc tha the opt act in m
fig 123
alg a for pla in lar or inn sta spa .
est nds the v tex , and est nds ana den q
alg a imp the pol .
h des in the
a spa sam alg
the gra str of m
wil be giv by a dir tre in whi eac nod is lab by a sta , and eac dir edg to a chi is lab by an act and a rew .
for the sak of sim , let us con onl the two - act cas her , wit act a12 and a12
eac nod wil hav c chi in whi the edg to the chi is lab a12 , and c chi in whi the edg to the chi is lab a12
the roo nod of m
is lab by the sta of int s , and we gen the 123 chi of s in the obv way : we cal the gen mod c tim on the sta - act pai ( s , a12 ) to get the a12 - chi , and on c tim on ( s , a12 ) to get the a12 - chi .
the edg to the chi are als lab by the rew ret by the gen mod , and the chi nod the are lab by the sta ret .
we wil bui thi ( 123 ) - ary tre to som dep to be det .
not tha m
is ess a spa loo - ahe tre .
we can als thi of m
as an mdp in whi the sta sta is s , and in whi tak an act fro a nod in the tre cau a tra to a ( uni ) ran chi of tha nod wit the cor act lab the chi lea nod are con abs sta .
und thi int , we can com the opt act to tak fro the roo s .
fig 123 sho a con pic of thi tre for a run of the alg fro an inp sta s12 , for c = 123
( c wil typ be muc lar ) .
fro the roo s12 , we try act a12 thr tim and act a12 thr tim .
fro eac of the res sta , we als try eac act c tim , and so on dow to dep h in the tre .
zer val ass to the lea the cor to our est of v
the par , whi are in tur bac - up to the par , and so on , up to the roo to nd an est of v the cen cla we est abo m
123 , whi are bac - up to nd est of v
is tha its siz can be ind of the num of sta in m , yet sti res in our cho nea - opt act at the roo .
we do thi by est bou on the req dep h of the tre and the req deg c .
rec tha the opt pol at s is giv by ( s ) = arg max q ( s , a ) , and the ( s , ) .
est the q - val is com det by , and eas cal fro , q
fig 123
spa loo - ahe tre of sta con by the alg ( sho wit c = 123 , act a12 , a12 ) .
kea , y .
man , and a . y
is a com way of pla in mdp .
fro the sta dua bet q - fun and val fun , the tas of est q - fun is ver sim to tha of est val fun .
so whi the alg use the q - fun , we wil , pur for exp pur , act des her how we est v
the are two par to the app we use .
fir , rat tha est v
wil act est , for a val of h to be spe lat , the h - ste exp dis
( s ) , giv by
( s ) = e
whe ri is the rew rec on the ith tim ste upo exe the opt pol
fro s .
mor , we see tha the v ( s ) = rsa + es ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ( v
( s ) , for h 123 , are rec giv by
( rsa + es ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ( v
is the act tak by the opt pol fro sta s , and v
( s ) = 123
the qua of the app in eq .
( 123 ) bec bet for lar val of h , and is con tig for the lar val h = h we eve cho .
one of the mai eff in the pro is est tha the err inc by the rec app of thi app can be mad con sma by cho h suf lar .
thu , if we are abl to obt an est v
( cid : 123 ) ) of v , we can ind den an alg for ndi an est v
( s ) by mak use of eq .
our ( s ) of v alg wil app the exp in eq .
( 123 ) by a sam of c ran nex sta fro the gen mod , whe c is a par to be det ( and whi , for rea tha wil bec cle lat , we cal the wid ) .
rec , giv a way of ndi the
, we nd our est v
( cid : 123 ) ) for any s
( cid : 123 ) ) for any s
( s ) as fol :
( s ) of v
ind sam sta fro the nex - sta dis psa ( ) .
for eac act a , use the gen mod to get rsa and to sam a set sa of c 123
use our pro for ndi v
( cid : 123 ) ) for eac sta s
in any of the
fol eq .
( 123 ) , our est of v
( s ) is the giv by
( s ) = max
h12 to est v
to com the des of the alg , all tha rem is to cho the dep h and the par c , whi con the wid of the tre .
bou the req dep h is the eas and sta par .
it is not har to see tha if we cho dep h = log ( 123 ) / rma ( the so - cal - hor tim ) , the the dis sum of the rew tha is obt by con rew bey thi hor is bou by .
a spa sam alg
the cen cla we est abo c is tha it can be cho ind of the num of sta in m , yet sti res in cho nea - opt act at the roo .
the key to the arg is tha eve tho sma sam may giv ver poo app to the nex - sta dis at eac sta in the tre , the wil , nev , giv goo est of the exp ter of eq .
( 123 ) , and tha is rea all we nee .
for thi we app a car com of uni con met and ind arg on the tre dep .
aga , the tec det of the pro are in app a .
in gen , the res tre may rep onl a van fra of all of the h - ste pat sta fro s12 tha hav non - zer pro in the mdp is , the spa loo - ahe tre cov onl a van par of the ful loo - ahe tre .
in thi sen , our alg is cle rel to and ins by cla loo - ahe sea tec ( rus & nor , 123 ) inc var rea - tim sea alg ( kor , 123 bar , bra , & sin , 123 bon , loe , & gef , 123 koe & sim , 123 ) and rec hor con .
mos of the cla sea alg , how , run int dif in ver lar or inn mdp wit dif tra , sin the sea tre can hav arb lar ( or eve inn ) bra fac .
our mai con is sho tha in lar sto env , cle ran sam suf to re - con nea all of the inf ava in the ( exp or inn ) lar ful loo - ahe tre .
not tha in the cas of det env , whe fro eac sta - act pai we can rea onl a sin nex sta , the spa and ful tre coi ( ass a mem tri des bel ) , and our alg red to cla det loo - ahe sea .
pra iss and low bou eve tho the run tim of alg a doe not dep on the siz of the mdp , it sti run in tim exp in the - hor tim h , and the exp in 123 / ( 123 ) .
it wou see tha the alg wou be pra onl if is not too clo to 123
in a mom , we wil giv a low bou sho it is not pos to do muc bet wit fur ass on the mdp .
nev , the are a cou of sim tri tha may hel to red the run tim in cer cas , and we des the tri rst .
the rst ide is to all dif amo of sam at eac lev of the tre .
the int is tha the fur we are fro the roo , the les inu our est wil hav on the q - val at the roo ( due to the dis ) .
thu , we can sam mor spa at dee lev of the tre wit hav too adv an imp on our app .
we hav ana var sch for let the amo of sam at a nod dep on its dep .
non of the met we inv res in a run tim whi is pol in 123 / .
how , one spe sch tha red the run tim sig is to let the num of sam per act at dep i be ci = 123 c , whe the par c now con the amo of sam don at the roo .
the err in the q - val usi suc a sch doe not inc by muc , and the run tim is the squ roo of our ori run tim .
bey thi and ana to how cla sea tre can oft be pru in way tha sig red run tim , a num of sta tre pru met may als be app to our alg tre ( rus & nor , 123 ) ( see als dea
kea , y .
man , and a . y
& bou , 123 ) , and we ant tha thi may sig spe up the alg in ano way in whi sig sav mig be ach is thr the use of mem - iza in our sub for cal the v ( s ) s .
in gur 123 , thi mea tha whe the are two nod at the sam lev of the tre tha cor to the sam sta , we col the int one nod ( kee jus one of the sub ) .
whi it is str to sho the cor of suc mem pro for det pro , one mus be car whe add ran pro .
we can sho tha the imp pro - tie of our alg are mai und thi opt .
ind , thi opt is par nic whe the dom is act det : if eac act det cau a tra to a xed nex - sta , the the tre wou gro onl as k h ( whe k is the num of act ) .
if the dom is nea det , the we hav beh som in bet .
sim , if the are onl som n12 ( cid : 123 ) |s| sta rea fro s12 , the the tre wou als nev gro wid tha n12 , giv it a siz of o ( n12 h ) .
in imp the alg , one may wis not to spe a tar acc in adv , but rat to try to do as wel as is pos wit the com res ava .
in thi cas , an ite - dee app may be tak .
thi wou ent sim inc c and h by dec the tar .
als , as stu in dav , ng , and moo ( 123 ) , if we hav acc to an ini est of the val fun , we can rep our est v ( s ) = 123 at the lea wit the est val fun at tho sta .
tho we sha not do so her , it is aga eas to mak for per gua dep on c , h and the sup err of the val fun est we are usi .
unf , des the tri , it is not dif to pro a low bou tha sho tha any pla alg wit acc onl to a gen mod , and whi imp a pol tha is - clo to opt in a gen mdp , mus hav run tim at lea exp in the - hor tim .
we now des thi low bou .
the 123
let a be any alg tha is giv acc onl to a gen mod for an mdp m , and inp s ( a sta in m ) and .
let the sto pol imp by a
sim for all sta s s .
the the exi an mdp m on whi a mak at lea ( 123 ) = ( ( 123 / ) ( 123 / log ( 123 / ) ) ) cal to the gen mod .
pro : let h = log = log ( 123 / ) / log ( 123 / ) .
con a bin tre t of dep h .
we use t to den an mdp in the fol way .
the sta of the mdp are the nod of the tre .
the act of the mdp are ( 123 , 123 ) .
whe we are in sta s and per an act b we rea ( det ) sta sb , whe sb is the b - chi of s in t .
if s is a lea of t the we mov to an abs sta .
we cho a ran lea v in the tre .
the rew fun for v and any act is rma , and the rew at any oth sta and act is zer .
alg a is giv s12 , the roo of t .
for alg a to com a nea opt pol , it has to nd the nod v , and the has to per at lea ( 123 ) cal to the gen
a spa sam alg
sum and rel wor
we hav des an alg for nea - opt pla fro a gen mod , tha has a per - sta run tim tha doe not dep on the siz of the sta spa , but whi is sti exp in the - hor tim .
an imp ope pro is to clo the gap bet our low and upp bou .
our low bou sho tha the num of ste has to gro pol - mia in 123 / whi in the upp bou the num of ste gro sub - exp in 123 / , mor pre ( 123 / ) o ( log ( 123 / ) ) .
clo thi gap , eit by giv an alg tha wou be pol in 123 / or by pro a bet low bou , is an int ope pro .
two int dir for imp are to all par obs mdp ( pom ) , and to nd mor efc alg tha do not hav exp dep on the hor tim .
as a rst ste tow bot of the goa , in a sep pap ( kea , man , & ng , to app ) we inv a fra in whi the goa is to use a gen - ati mod to nd a nea - bes str wit a res cla of str for a pom .
typ exa of suc res str cla inc lim - mem str in pom , or pol in lar mdp tha imp a lin map fro sta vec to act .
our mai res in thi fra say tha as lon as the res cla of str is not too com ( whe thi is for usi app gen of sta not lik vc dim fro sup lea ) , the it is pos to nd a nea - bes str fro wit the cla , in tim tha aga has no dep on the siz of the sta spa .
if the res cla of str is smo par , the thi fur lea to a num of fas , pra alg for doi gra des to nd the nea - bes str wit the cla , whe the run tim of eac gra des ste now has onl lin rat tha exp dep on the hor tim .
ano app to pla in pom tha is bas on the alg pre her is inv by mca and sin ( 123 ) , who sho how the app bel - sta tra met of boy and kol ( 123 ) can be com wit our alg .
app a : pro ske of the 123
in thi app , we giv the pro of the 123
the 123
the is a ran alg a tha , giv acc to a gen mod for any k - act mdp m , tak as inp any sta s s and any val > 123 , out an act , and sat the fol two con : ( efc ) the run tim of a is o ( ( kc ) h ) , whe
h = ( cid : 123 ) log ( / vma ) ( cid : 123 ) , c = v 123 = ( ( 123 ) 123 ) / 123 ,
vma = rma / ( 123 ) .
kea , y .
man , and a . y
in par , the run tim dep onl on rma , , and , and doe not dep on n =|s .
if we vie rma as a con , the run tim bou can als be wri
( nea - opt ) the val fun of the sto pol imp by a sat
sim for all sta s s .
thr the ana we wil rel on the pse - cod pro for alg a giv in gur 123
the cla on the run tim is imm fro the den of alg a .
eac cal to est gen kc cal to est , c cal for eac act .
eac rec cal als red the dep par h by one , so the dep of the rec is at mos h .
the the run tim is o ( ( kc ) h ) .
the mai eff is in sho tha the val of est are ind goo est for the cho val of c and h .
the are two sou of ina in the est .
the rst is tha we use onl a nit sam to app an exp dra onl c sta fro the nex - sta dis .
the sec sou of ina is tha ( ) but rat val in com est , we are not act usi the val of v ret by est , whi are the onl est .
the cru ste in the pro is to sho tha as h inc , the ove ina dec .
let us rst den an int ran var tha wil cap the ina due
to the lim sam .
den u
( s , a ) as fol :
( s , a ) = rsa +
whe the si are dra acc to psa ( ) .
not tha u ( s , a ) is ave val of ( ) , the unk val fun .
sin u ( s , a ) is use onl for the pro and not in the alg , the is no pro in den it thi way .
the nex lem sho tha wit hig ( s , a ) is at mos .
pro , the dif bet u lem 123
for any sta s and act a , wit pro at lea 123 e
( s , a ) and q
max we hav
( s , a ) u
( s , a ) | =
whe the pro is tak ove the dra of the si fro psa ( ) .
a spa sam alg
pro : not tha q
( s , a ) = rsa + esp ( ) ( v
the pro is imm fro the
now tha we hav qua the err due to nit sam , we can bou the err ( ) .
we bou thi err as fro our usi val ret by est rat tha v ( s , a ) and est .
in ord to mak our not sim , let the dif bet u v n ( s ) be the val ret by est ( n , c , , g , s ) , and let qn ( s , a ) be the com in the out of est ( n , c , , g , s ) tha cor to act a .
usi thi not , our alg com
qn ( s , a ) = rsa +
v n12 ( si )
whe v n12 ( s ) = max ( qn1 ( s , a ) ) , and q12 ( s , a ) = 123 for eve sta s and act a .
we now den a par n tha wil eve bou the dif bet q
and qn ( s , a ) .
we den n rec :
whe 123 = vma .
sol for h we obt
n+1 = ( + n )
+ h vma
+ h vma .
the nex lem bou the err in the est , at lev n , by n .
int , the err due to nit sam con , whi the err in est con n .
the com err is + n , but sin we are dis , the eff err is onl ( + n ) , whi by den is n+1
lem 123
wit pro at lea 123 ( kc ) ne
max we hav tha
( s , a ) qn ( s , a ) | n .
pro : the pro is by ind on n .
it cle hol for n = 123
( s , a ) qn ( s , a ) | =
v n12 ( si )
v n12 ( si )
( si ) 123
( + n ) = n+1
kea , y .
man , and a . y
we req tha all of the c chi est be goo , for eac of the k act .
thi mea tha the pro of a bad est inc by a fac of kc , for eac n .
by lem 123 the pro of a sin bad est is bou by e max .
the the pro of som bad est is bou by 123 ( kc ) ne
fro h h vma / ( 123 ) , we als see tha for h = log ( / vma ) , wit pro 123 ( kc ) h e max all the nal est q h ( s12 , a ) are wit 123 / ( 123 ) fro the tru q - val .
the nex ste is to cho c suc tha = / rma ( kc ) h e bou the pro of a bad est dur the ent com .
spe ,
c = v 123
is suf to ens tha wit pro 123 all the est are acc .
at thi poi we hav sho tha wit hig pro , alg a com a goo ( s12 , a ) for all a , whe s12 is the inp sta .
to com the pro , we nee est of q to rel thi to the exp val of a sto pol .
we giv a fai gen res abo mdp , whi doe not dep on our spe alg .
( a sim res app in sin & yee , 123 ) .
lem 123
ass tha is a sto pol , so tha ( s ) is a ran var .
if for ( s , ( s ) ) < is at lea 123 , the the eac sta s , the pro tha q dis inn hor ret of is at mos ( + 123 ) / ( 123 ) fro the opt ret , i . e . , for any sta sv
( s ) v ( s ) ( + 123 ) / ( 123 ) .
( s , ( s ) ) q
pro : sin we ass tha the rew are bou by rma , it imp tha the exp ret of at eac sta s is at lea ( s , ( s ) ) ) ( 123 ) ( q
( s , ( s ) ) ) vma
( s , ( s ) ) 123 .
( s , ( s ) ) is at mos , the v
now we sho tha if has the pro tha at eac sta s the dif bet ( s ) v ( s ) / ( 123 ) .
( a sim ( s , ( s ) ) ) and q res was pro by sin and yee ( 123 ) , for the cas tha eac act cho has ( s , ( s ) ) q ( s , ( s ) ) .
it is eas to ext the pro to han the cas her , and we ske a pro onl for com ) .
val imm imp |e ( r ( s , ( s ) ) ) e ( r ( s , ( s ) ) ) | the ass on the q .
con a pol j tha exe for the rst j + 123 ste and the exe i .
thi we can sho by ind on j tha for eve sta s , v i = / ( 123 ) .
imp tha v by set = + 123 the lem fol .
( s ) v ( s ) ( cid : 123 )
( s ) v j ( s ) ( cid : 123 ) j
now we can com all the lem to pro our mai the .
a spa sam alg
pro of the 123 : as dis bef , the run tim is imm fro the alg , and the mai wor is sho tha we com a nea - opt pol .
by lem 123 we hav tha the err in the est of q is at mos h , wit pro 123 ( kc ) h e max .
usi the val we cho for c and h we hav tha wit pro 123 the err is at mos 123 / ( 123 ) .
by lem 123 thi imp tha suc a pol has the pro tha fro eve sta s ,
( s ) v ( s )
sub bac the val of = / rma and = ( 123 ) 123 / 123 tha we had cho , it
( s ) v ( s ) 123
we giv war tha to sat sin for man enl dis and num ins on the ide pre her .
hen , eve tha nee to be mea is ass to be mea .
how , our res can be gen to the und nit - hor cas for any xed hor h
( mca & sin , 123 ) .
wil not lit be a sub - mdp of m , in the sen of bei str emb in m , due to the var
of ran sam .
but it wil be ver nea suc an emb mdp .
