in rec yea , dee lea app hav gai sig int as a way of bui hie rep fro unl dat .
how , to our kno , the dee lea app hav not bee ext stu - ied for aud dat .
in thi pap , we app con dee bel net - wor to aud dat and emp eva the on var aud cla tas .
in the cas of spe dat , we sho tha the lea fea cor to pho / pho .
in add , our fea rep lea fro unl aud dat sho ver goo per for mul aud cla tas .
we hop tha thi pap wil ins mor res on dee lea app app to a wid ran of aud rec tas .
und how to rec com , hig - dim aud dat is one of the gre cha - len of our tim .
pre wor ( 123 , 123 ) rev tha lea a spa rep of aud sig lea to lte tha clo cor to tho of neu in ear aud pro in mam - mal .
for exa , whe spa cod mod are app to nat sou or spe , the lea rep ( bas vec ) sho a str res to the coc lte in the aud cor .
in rel wor , gro et al .
( 123 ) pro an efc spa cod alg for aud sig and dem its use in aud cla tas .
how , the pro met hav bee app to lea rel sha , one - lay rep - tio .
lea mor com , hig - lev rep is sti a non - tri , cha pro .
rec , man pro app hav bee pro to lea the pro ste of the sec - ond sta and bey ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the dee lea alg try to lea sim fea in the low lay and mor com fea in the hig lay .
how , to the bes of our kno , the dee lea app hav not bee ext app to aud dat .
the dee bel net ( 123 ) is a gen pro mod com of one vis ( obs ) lay and man hid lay .
eac hid lay uni lea a sta rel bet the uni in the low lay the hig lay rep ten to bec mor com .
the dee bel net can be efc tra usi gre lay tra , in whi the hid lay are tra one at a tim in a bot - up fas ( 123 ) .
rec , con dee bel net ( 123 ) hav bee dev to sca up the alg to hig - dim dat .
sim to dee bel net , con dee bel net can be tra in a gre , bot - up fas .
by app the net to ima , lee et al .
( 123 ) sho goo per in sev vis rec tas ( 123 ) .
in thi pap , we wil app con dee bel net to unl aud dat ( suc as spe and mus ) and eva the lea fea rep on sev aud cla tas .
in the cas of spe dat , we sho tha the lea fea cor to pho / pho .
in add , our fea rep out oth bas fea ( spe and mfc )
for mul aud cla tas .
in par , our met com fav wit oth sta - of - the - art alg for the spe ide tas .
for the pho cla tas , mfc fea can be aug wit our fea to imp acc .
we als sho for cer tas tha the sec - lay fea pro hig acc tha the rst - lay fea , whi jus the use of dee lea app for aud cla .
fin , we sho tha our fea giv bet per in com to oth bas fea for mus cla tas .
in our exp , the lea fea oft per muc bet tha oth bas fea whe the was onl a sma num of lab tra exa .
to the bes of our kno , we are the rst to app dee lea alg to a ran of aud cla tas .
we hop tha thi pap wil ins mor res on dee lea app app to aud rec tas .
123 con dee bel net
we rst bri rev con res bol mac ( crb ) ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) as bui blo for con dee bel net ( cdb ) .
we wil fol the for of ( 123 ) and ada it to a one dim set .
for the pur of thi exp , we ass tha all inp to the alg are sin - cha tim - ser dat wit nv fra ( an nv dim vec ) ; how , the for can be str ext to the cas of mul cha .
the crb is an ext of the reg rbm ( 123 ) to a con set , in whi the wei bet the hid uni and the vis uni are sha amo all loc in the hid lay .
the crb con of two lay : an inp ( vis ) lay v and a hid lay h .
the hid uni are bin - val , and the vis uni are bin - val or rea - val .
con the inp lay con of an nv dim arr of bin uni .
to con the hid lay , con k nw - dim lte wei w k ( als ref to as bas thr thi pap ) .
the hid lay con of k gro of nh - dim arr ( whe nh ( cid : 123 ) nv nw + 123 ) wit uni in gro k sha the wei w k .
the is als a sha bia bk for eac gro and a sha bia c for the vis uni .
the ene fun can the be den as :
e ( v , h ) = k ( cid : 123 )
e ( v , h ) =
r vj+ k ( cid : 123 ) r vj+ k ( cid : 123 )
sim , the ene fun of crb wit rea - val vis uni can be den as :
the joi and con pro dis are den as fol :
p ( v , h ) = j = 123 ) = sig ( ( w k v v ) j + bk )
p ( vi = 123 ) = sig ( ( cid : 123 ) p ( vi| ) = n orm ( ( cid : 123 )
( w k f hk ) i + c )
( for bin vis uni )
( w k f hk ) i + c , 123 )
( for rea vis uni ) ,
whe v is a val con , f is a ful con , 123 and w k nw j+1
sin all uni in one lay are con ind giv the oth lay , inf in the net can be efc per usi blo gib sam .
lee et al .
( 123 ) fur dev a con rbm wit pro max - poo , whe the max ove sma nei of hid uni are com in a pro sou way .
( see ( 123 ) for mor det . ) in thi pap , we use crb wit pro max - poo as bui blo for con dee bel net .
( cid : 123 ) w k
123 an m - dim vec and an n - dim ker ( whe m > n ) , val con giv a
( m n + 123 ) - dim vec , and ful con giv a ( m + n 123 ) - dim vec .
for tra the con rbm , com the exa gra for the log - lik ter is in - tra .
how , con div ( 123 ) can be use to app the gra eff .
sin a typ crb is hig ove , a spa pen ter is add to the log - lik obj ( 123 , 123 ) .
mor spe , the tra obj can be wri as
lli ( w , b , c ) + lsp ( w , b , c ) ,
whe lli is a neg log - lik tha mea how wel the crb app the inp dat dis , and lsp is a pen ter tha con the hid uni to hav spa ave act .
thi spa reg can be vie as lim the cap of the net , and it oft res in mor eas int fea rep .
onc the par for all the lay are tra , we sta the crb to for a con dee bel net .
for inf , we use fee - for app .
123 app to aud dat for the app of cdb to aud dat , we rst con tim - dom sig int spe - gra .
how , the dim of the spe is lar ( e . g . , 123 cha ) .
we app pca whi to the spe and cre low dim rep .
thu , the dat we fee int the cdb con of nc cha of one - dim vec of len nv , whe nc is the num of pca com in our rep .
sim , the rst - lay bas are com of nc cha of one - dim lte of len nw .
123 uns fea lea 123 tra on unl tim dat we tra the rst and sec - lay cdb rep usi a lar , unl spe dat .
fir , we ext the spe fro eac utt of the tim tra dat ( 123 ) .
the spe - tro had a 123 ms win siz wit 123 ms ove .
the spe was fur pro usi pca whi ( wit 123 com ) to red the dim .
we the tra 123 rst - lay bas wit a lte len ( nw ) of 123 and a max - poo rat ( loc nei siz ) of 123
we fur tra 123 sec - lay bas usi the max - poo rst - lay act as inp , aga wit a lte len of 123 and a max - poo rat of 123
in thi sec , we ill wha the net lea thr vis .
we vis the rst - lay bas by mul the inv of the pca whi on eac rst - lay bas ( fig 123 ) .
eac sec - lay bas is vis as a wei lin com of the rst - lay bas .
fig 123 : vis of ran sel rst - lay cdb bas tra on the tim dat .
eac col rep a tem rec eld of a rst - lay bas in the spe spa .
the fre cha are ord fro the low fre ( bot ) to the hig fre ( top ) .
all gur in the pap are bes vie in col .
123 . 123 pho and the cdb fea in fig 123 , we sho how our bas rel to pho by com vis of eac pho wit the bas tha are mos act by tha pho .
for eac pho , we sho ve spe of sou cli of tha pho ( top ve col in eac pho gro ) , and the ve rst - lay bas wit the hig ave act on the giv pho ( bot ve col in eac pho gro ) .
man of the rst - lay bas clo mat the sha of pho .
the are pro hor ban in the low fre of the rst - lay bas tha res mos to vow ( for exa , ah and oy ) .
the bas tha res mos
hig fre .
low fre . fig 123 : vis of the fou dif pho and the cor rst - lay cdb bas .
for eac pho : ( top ) the spe of the ve ran sel pho ( bot ) ve rst - lay bas wit the hig ave act on the giv pho .
to fri ( for exa , s ) typ tak the for of wid dis are of ene in the hig fre of the spe .
bot of the pat ree the str of the cor clo ins of the bas pro sli evi tha the rst - lay bas als cap mor ne - gra det .
for exa , the rst and thi oy bas ree the upw - sla pat in the pho spe .
the top el bas mir the int pat of the cor pho spe : a hig int reg app in the low fre , and ano reg of les int app a bit hig up .
123 . 123 spe gen inf and the cdb fea
in fig 123 , we sho an ana of two - lay cdb fea rep wit res to the gen - der cla tas ( sec 123 ) .
not tha the net was tra on unl dat the , no inf abo spe gen was giv dur tra .
fig 123 : ( lef ) ve spe sam of ae pho fro fem ( top ) / mal ( bot ) spe - ( mid ) vis of the ve rst - lay bas tha mos dif act for fe - mal / mal spe .
( rig ) vis of the ve sec - lay bas tha mos dif act for fem / mal spe .
for com wit the cdb fea , ran sel spe of fem ( top lef ve col ) and mal ( bot lef ve col ) pro of the ae pho fro the tim dat are sho .
spe for the fem pro are qua dis by a ner hor ban pat in low fre , whe mal pro hav mor blu
exa pho ( " ah " ) exa pho ( " oy " ) exa pho ( " el " ) exa pho ( " s " ) fir lay bas lay bas lay bas lay bas pho ( fem ) fir lay bas ( " fem " ) sec lay bas ( " fem " ) exa pho ( mal ) fir lay bas ( " mal " ) sec lay bas ( " mal " ) pat .
thi gen dif in the vow pro pat is typ acr the tim onl the bas tha are mos bia to act on eit mal or fem spe are sho .
the bas tha are mos act on fem spe enc the hor ban pat tha is pro in the spe of fem pro .
on the oth han , the mal - bia bas hav mor blu pat , whi aga vis mat the cor spe .
123 app to spe rec tas in thi sec , we dem tha the cdb fea rep lea fro the unl spe cor can be use for mul spe rec tas , suc as spe ide , gen cla , and pho cla .
in mos of our exp , we fol the sel - tau lea fra ( 123 ) .
the mot for sel - tau lea com fro sit whe we are giv onl a sma amo of lab dat and a lar amo of unl dat the , one of our mai int was to eva the dif fea rep giv a sma num of lab tra exa ( as oft ass in sel - tau lea or sem - sup lea set ) .
mor spe , we tra the cdb on unl tim dat ( as des in sec 123 ) ; the we use the cdb fea for cla on lab tra / tes dat tha wer ran sel fro the tim cor . 123
123 spe ide
we eva the use of the lea cdb rep for the spe ide tas .
the sub of the tim cor tha we use for spe ide has 123 spe and 123 utt ( sen ) per spe , res in a tot of 123 utt .
we per 123 - way cla on thi set .
for eac num of utt per spe , we ran sel tra utt and tes utt and mea the cla acc we rep the res ave ove 123 ran tri . 123 to con tra and tes dat for the cla tas , we ext a spe fro eac utt in the tim cor .
we den thi spe rep as raw fea .
we com the rst and sec - lay cdb fea usi the spe as inp .
we als com mfc fea , wid - use sta fea for gen spe rec tas .
as a res , we obt spe / mfc / cdb rep for eac utt wit mul ( typ , sev hun ) fra .
in our exp , we use sim sum sta ( for eac cha ) suc as ave , max , or sta dev ove all the fra .
we eva the fea usi sta sup cla , suc as svm , gda , and knn .
the cho of sum sta and hyp for the cla wer don usi cro - val .
we rep the ave cla acc ( ove 123 ran tri ) wit a var num of tra exa .
tab 123 sho the ave cla acc for eac fea rep .
the res sho tha the rst and sec cdb rep bot out bas fea ( raw and mfc ) .
the num com mfc and cdb fea wit as man of the sam fac ( suc as pre and cla alg ) as pos .
fur , to mak a fai com bet cdb fea and mfc , we use the bes per imp amo sev sta imp for mfc .
our res sug tha wit spe pre or pos -
123 sel - tau lea , the lab dat and unl dat don nee to sha the sam lab or the sam
123 are two dis tim dat set .
we dre unl dat fro the lar of the two for uns fea lea , and we dre lab dat fro the oth dat set to cre our tra and tes set for the
123 the cas of pho cla , we fol the sta pro ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) rat tha sel - tau
lea fra to eva our alg in com to oth met .
123 : the wer som exc to thi for the cas of eig tra utt , we fol rey ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ; mor spe , we use eig tra utt ( 123 sa sen , 123 si sen and rst 123 sx sen ) ; the two tes utt wer the rem 123 sx sen .
we use cro val for sel hyp for cla , exc for the cas of 123 utt per spe , whe we use a ran sel val sen per spe .
123 use dan ell imp ava at : htt : / / lab . ee . col . edu / mat /
tab 123 : tes cla acc for spe ide usi sum sta raw mfc cdb l12 cdb l12 cdb l12 #tr utt per spe
tab 123 : tes cla acc for spe ide usi all fra
#tr utt per spe mfc ( ( 123 ) s met ) cdb mfc ( ( 123 ) ) + cdb
ing ( bes the sum sta whi wer nee to red the num of fea ) , the cdb fea out mfc fea , esp in a set wit a ver lim num of lab we fur exp to det if the cdb fea can ach com per in com to oth mor sop , sta - of - the - art met .
for eac fea rep , we use the cla tha ach the hig per .
mor spe , for the mfc fea - tur we rep rey ( 123 ) s met , 123 and for the cdb fea we use a svm bas ens met . 123 as sho in tab 123 , the cdb fea con out mfc fea - tur whe the num of tra exa was sma .
we als com bot met by tak a lin com of the two cla out ( bef tak the nal cla pre fro eac alg ) . 123 the res com cla per the bes , ach 123 acc for the cas of 123 tra utt per spe .
123 spe gen cla
we als eva the sam cdb fea whi wer lea for the spe ide tas on the gen cla tas .
we rep the cla acc for var qua of tra exa ( utt ) per gen .
for eac num of tra exa , we ran sam tra exa and 123 tes exa we rep the tes cla acc ave ove 123 tri .
as sho in tab 123 , bot the rst and sec cdb fea out the bas fea , esp whe the num of tra exa wer sma .
the sec - lay cdb fea con per bet tha the rst - lay cdb fea .
thi sug tha the sec - lay rep lea mor inv fea tha are rel for spe gen cla , jus the use of dee arc .
123 pho cla
fin , we eva our lea rep on pho cla tas .
for thi exp , we tre eac pho seg as an ind exa and com the spe ( raw ) and mfc fea for eac pho seg .
sim , we com the rst - lay cdb rep - tio .
fol the sta pro ( 123 ) , we rep the 123 way pho cla acc on the tes dat ( tim cor tes set ) for var num of tra sen .
for eac num of tra exa , we rep the ave cla acc ove 123 ran tri .
the sum
123 : in ( 123 ) , mfc fea ( wit mul fra ) wer com for eac utt the a gau mix mod was tra for eac spe ( tre eac ind mfc fra as a inp exa to the gmm .
for the a giv tes utt , the pre was mad by det the gmm mod tha had the hig tes log - lik .
123 det , we tre eac sin - fra cdb fea as an ind exa .
the , we tra a mul - cla lin svm for the ind fra .
for tes , we com svm pre sco for eac spe , and the agg pre fro all the fra .
ove , the hig sco spe was sel for the
123 con for the lin com was xed acr all the num of tra utt , and it was
sel usi cro val .
tab 123 : tes acc for gen cla pro
#tr utt per gen
raw mfc cdb l12 cdb l12 cdb l12
tab 123 : tes acc for pho cla pro
raw mfc mfc ( ( 123 ) s met ) cdb l12 mfc l12 ( ( 123 ) )
res are sho in tab 123
in thi exp , the rst - lay cdb fea per bet tha spe fea , but the did not out the mfc fea .
how , by com mfc fea and cdb fea , we cou ach abo 123 acc imp con - ten ove all the num of tra utt .
in the rea of pho cla , in whi sig res eff is oft nee to ach eve imp wel und a per , thi is a sig imp .
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) thi sug tha the rst - lay cdb fea lea som inf fea for pho cla tas in an uns way .
in con to the gen cla tas , the sec - lay cdb fea did not off muc imp ove the rst - lay cdb fea .
thi res is not une con the fac tha the tim - sca of mos pho rou cor - spo to the tim - sca of the rst - lay cdb fea .
123 app to mus cla tas in thi sec , we ass the app of cdb fea to var mus cla tas .
tab 123 : tes acc for 123 - way mus gen cla
raw mfc cdb l12 cdb l12 cdb l12
123 mus gen cla
for the tas of mus gen cla , we tra the rst and sec - lay cdb rep - tio on an unl col of mus dat . 123 fir , we com the spe ( 123 ms win siz wit 123 ms ove ) rep for ind son .
the spe was pca - whi and the fed int the cdb as inp dat .
we tra 123 rst - lay bas wit a lte len of 123 and a max - poo rat of 123
in add , we tra 123 sec - lay bas wit a lte len of 123 and a max - poo rat of 123
we eva the lea cdb rep for 123 - way gen cla tas .
the tra and tes son for the cla tas wer ran sam fro 123 gen ( cla , ele , jaz , pop , and roc ) and did not ove wit the unl dat .
we ran sam 123 - sec seg fro eac son and tre eac seg as an ind tra or tes exa .
we rep the cla acc for var num of tra exa .
for eac num of tra exa , we ave ove 123 ran tri .
the res are sho in tab 123
in thi tas , the rst - lay cdb fea per the bes ove .
123 fro htt : / / ism . net / ism . htm .
123 mus art cla fur , we eva whe the cdb fea are use in ide ind art . 123 fol the sam pro as in sec 123 , we tra the rst and sec - lay cdb rep - res fro an unl col of cla mus dat .
som rep bas are sho in fig 123
the we eva the lea cdb rep for 123 - way art ide - cat tas .
the dis set of tra and tes son for the cla tas wer ran sam fro the son of fou art .
the unl dat and the lab dat did not inc the sam art .
we ran sam 123 - sec seg fro eac son and tre eac seg as an ind exa .
we rep the cla acc for var qua of tra ex - amp .
for eac num of tra exa , we ave ove 123 ran tri .
the res are sho in tab 123
the res sho tha bot the rst and sec - lay cdb fea per bet tha the bas fea , and tha eit usi the sec - lay fea onl or com the rst and the sec - lay fea yie the bes res .
thi sug tha the sec - lay cdb rep mig hav cap som use , hig - lev fea tha the rst - lay
fig 123 : vis of ran sel rst - lay cdb bas tra on cla mus dat .
tab 123 : tes acc for 123 - way art ide
raw mfc cdb l12 cdb l12 cdb l12
123 dis and con mod spe dat are muc lar tha the tim dat .
whi the cha of lar dat oft lie in con har tas , our obj in usi the tim dat was to res the amo of lab dat our alg had to lea fro .
it rem an int pro to app dee lea to lar dat and mor cha tas .
in thi pap , we app con dee bel net to aud dat and eva on var aud cla tas .
by lev a lar amo of unl dat , our lea fea oft equ or sur mfc fea , whi are han - tai to aud dat .
fur , eve whe our fea did not out mfc , we cou ach hig cla acc by com bot .
als , our res sho tha a sin cdb fea rep can ach hig per on mul aud rec tas .
we hop tha our app wil ins mor res on aut lea dee fea hie for aud dat .
we tha yos ben , dan jur , yun - hsu sun , ped mor , rog gro for hel dis .
we als tha ano rev for the con com .
thi wor was sup in par by the nat sci fou und gra efr - 123 , and in par by the ofc of nav res und mur n12
123 our exp , we fou tha art ide tas was mor dif tha the spe ide
tas bec the loc sou pat can be hig var eve for the sam art .
