rec wor in uns fea lea and dee lea has sho tha be - ing abl to tra lar mod can dra imp per .
in thi pap , we con the pro of tra a dee net wit bil of par usi ten of tho of cpu cor .
we hav dev a sof fra cal dis tha can uti com clu wit tho of mac to tra lar mod .
wit thi fra , we hav dev two alg for lar - sca dis tra : ( i ) dow sgd , an asy sto gra des pro sup a lar num of mod rep , and ( ii ) san , a fra tha sup a var of dis bat opt pro , inc a dis imp of l - bfg .
dow sgd and san l - bfg bot inc the sca and spe of dee net tra - ing .
we hav suc use our sys to tra a dee net 123 lar tha pre rep in the lit , and ach sta - of - the - art per on ima , a vis obj rec tas wit 123 mil ima and 123 cat - gor .
we sho tha the sam tec dra acc the tra of a mor mod - siz dee net for a com spe rec ser - vic .
alt we foc on and rep per of the met as app to tra lar neu net , the und alg are app to any gra - bas mac lea alg .
dee lea and uns fea lea hav sho gre pro in man pra ap - pli .
sta - of - the - art per has bee rep in sev dom , ran fro spe rec ( 123 , 123 ) , vis obj rec ( 123 , 123 ) , to tex pro ( 123 , 123 ) .
it has als bee obs tha inc the sca of dee lea , wit res to the num of tra exa , the num of mod par , or bot , can dra imp ult cla acc ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the res hav led to a sur of int in sca up the tra and inf alg use for the mod ( 123 ) and in imp app opt pro ( 123 , 123 ) .
the use of gpu ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) is a sig adv in rec yea tha mak the tra of mod siz dee net pra .
a kno lim of the gpu app is tha the tra spe - up is sma whe the mod doe not t in gpu mem ( typ les tha 123 gig ) .
to use a gpu eff , res oft red the siz of the dat or par so tha cpu - to - gpu tra are not a sig bot .
whi dat and par red wor wel for sma pro ( e . g .
aco mod for spe rec ) , the are les att for pro wit a lar num of exa and dim ( e . g . , hig - res ima ) .
in thi pap , we des an alt app : usi lar - sca clu of mac to dis tra and inf in dee net .
we hav dev a sof fra cal dis - lie tha ena mod par wit a mac ( via mul ) and acr mac ( via
mes pas ) , wit the det of par , syn and com man by the fra .
in add to sup mod par , the dis fra als sup dat par , whe mul rep of a mod are use to opt a sin obj .
wit thi fra , we hav des and imp two nov met for lar - sca dis tra : ( i ) dow sgd , an asy sto gra des pro whi lev - age ada lea rat and sup a lar num of mod rep , and ( ii ) san l - bfg , a dis imp of l - bfg tha use bot dat and mod par . 123 bot dow sgd and san l - bfg enj sig spe gai com to mor con - tio imp of sgd and l - bfg .
our exp rev sev sur res abo lar - sca non opt .
fir , asy sgd , rar app to non pro , wor ver wel for tra dee net - wor , par whe com wit ada ( 123 ) ada lea rat .
sec , we sho tha giv suf res , l - bfg is com wit or fas tha man var of sgd .
wit reg to spe app in dee lea , we rep two mai ndi : tha our dis - tri opt app can bot gre acc the tra of mod siz mod , and tha it can als tra mod tha are lar tha cou be con oth .
to ill the rst poi , we sho tha we can use a clu of mac to tra a mod siz spe mod to the sam cla acc in les tha 123 / 123 the tim req on a gpu .
to ill the sec poi , we tra a lar neu net of mor tha 123 bil par and use thi net to dra imp on sta - of - the - art per on the ima dat , one of the lar dat in com vis .
123 pre wor
in rec yea com and aca mac lea dat set hav gro at an unp - den pac .
in res , a gre man aut hav exp sca up mac lea alg - rit thr par and dis ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
muc of thi res has foc on lin , con mod , whe dis gra com is the nat rst ste .
wit thi are , som gro hav rel syn req , exp del gra - ent upd for con pro ( 123 , 123 ) .
in par , oth gro wor on pro wit spa gra ( pro whe onl a tin fra of the coo of the gra vec are non - zer for any giv tra exa ) hav exp loc - les asy sto gra des on sha - mem arc ( i . e .
sin mac ) ( 123 , 123 ) .
we are int in an app tha cap the bes of bot wor , all the use of a clu of mac asy com gra , but wit req tha the pro be eit con or spa .
in the con of dee lea , mos wor has foc on tra rel sma mod on a sin mac ( e . g . , the ( 123 ) ) .
sug for sca up dee lea inc the use of a far of gpu to tra a col of man sma mod and sub ave the pre ( 123 ) , or mod sta dee net to mak the inh mor par ( 123 ) .
our foc is sca dee lea tec in the dir of tra ver lar mod , tho wit a few bil par , but wit int res on the for of the mod .
in spe cas whe one lay dom com , som aut hav con dis com in tha one lay and rep com in the rem lay ( 123 ) .
but in the gen cas whe man lay of the mod are com int , ful mod par in a spi sim to ( 123 ) is req .
to be suc , how , we bel tha mod par mus be com wit cle dis opt tec tha lev dat par .
we con a num of exi lar - sca com too for app to our pro - lem , map ( 123 ) and gra ( 123 ) bei not exa .
we con tha map - duc , des for par dat pro , was ill - sui for the ite com inh in dee net tra whe gra , des for gen ( uns ) gra com , wou not exp com efc ava in the str gra typ fou in dee
123 imp l - bfg wit the san fra , but the gen app is als sui for
a var of oth bat opt met .
fig 123 : an exa of mod par in dis .
a ve lay dee neu net wit loc con is sho her , par acr fou mac ( blu rec ) .
onl tho nod wit edg tha cro par bou ( thi lin ) wil nee to hav the sta tra bet mac .
eve in cas whe a nod has mul edg cro a par bou , its sta is onl sen to the mac on the oth sid of tha bou onc .
wit eac par , com for ind nod wil the par acr all ava cpu cor .
123 mod par
to fac the tra of ver lar dee net , we hav dev a sof fra , dis , tha sup dis com in neu net and lay gra mod .
the use den the com tha tak pla at eac nod in eac lay of the mod , and the mes tha sho be pas dur the upw and dow pha of com . 123 for lar mod , the use may par the mod acr sev mac ( fig 123 ) , so tha res - sib for the com for dif nod is ass to dif mac .
the fra aut par com in eac mac usi all ava cor , and man com - mun , syn and dat tra bet mac dur bot tra and inf .
the per ben of dis a dee net acr mul mac dep on the con str and com nee of the mod .
mod wit a lar num of par - ete or hig com dem typ ben fro acc to mor cpu and mem , up to the poi whe com cos dom .
we hav suc run lar mod wit up to 123 par in the dis fra wit sig spe , whi mor mod siz mod sho dec spe for up to 123 or 123 par .
( see sec 123 , und the hea mod par ben , for exp res . ) obv , mod wit loc con str - tur ten to be mor ame to ext dis tha ful - con str , giv the low com req .
the typ cau of les - tha - ide spe is var in pro tim acr the dif mac , lea to man mac wai for the sin slo mac to nis a giv pha of com .
non , for our lar mod , we can efc use 123 mac whe eac mac ach an ave cpu uti of 123 cor , for a tot of 123 cpu cor tra a sin lar neu net .
whe com wit the dis opt alg des in the nex sec , whi uti mul rep of the ent neu net , it is pos to use ten of tho of cpu cor for tra a sin mod , lea to sig red in ove tra tim .
123 dis opt alg
par com wit the dis fra all us to ins and run neu net con lar tha hav bee pre rep .
but in ord to tra suc lar mod in a rea amo of tim , we nee to par com not onl wit a sin
123 the cas of a neu net upw and dow mig equ wel be cal fee and
bac , whi for a hid mar mod , the mig be mor fam as for and bac .
mac 123 123 123 123 fig 123 : lef : dow sgd .
mod rep asy fet par w and pus gra - die w to the par ser .
rig : san l - bfg .
a sin coo sen sma mes to rep and the par ser to orc bat opt .
ins of the mod , but to dis tra acr mul mod ins .
in thi sec we des thi sec lev of par , whe we emp a set of dis mod ins , or rep , to sim sol a sin opt pro .
we pre a com of two lar - sca dis opt pro : dow sgd , an onl met , and san l - bfg , a bat met .
bot met lev the con of a cen sha par ser , whi mod rep use to sha the par .
bot met tak adv of the dis com dis all wit eac ind rep .
but mos imp , bot met are des to tol var in the pro spe of dif mod rep , and eve the who fai of mod rep whi may be tak ofi or res at ran .
in a sen , the two opt alg imp an int ver of dat par .
bot app all us to sim pro dis tra exa in eac of the man mod rep , and per com the res to opt our obj fun .
123 dow sgd
sto gra des ( sgd ) is per the mos com use opt pro for tra dee neu net ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
unf , the tra for of sgd is inh seq , mak it imp to app to ver lar dat set whe the tim req to mov thr the dat in an ent ser fas is pro .
to app sgd to lar dat set , we int dow sgd , a var of asy sto - tic gra des tha use mul rep of a sin dis mod .
the bas app is as fol : we div the tra dat int a num of sub and run a cop of the mod on eac of the sub .
the mod com upd thr a cen par ser , whi kee the cur sta of all par for the mod , sha acr man mac ( e . g . , if we hav 123 par ser sha , eac sha is res for sto and app upd to 123 / 123 of the mod par ) ( fig 123 ) .
thi app is asy in two dis as - pec : the mod rep run ind of eac oth , and the par ser sha als run ind of one ano .
in the sim imp , bef pro eac min - bat , a mod rep ask the pa - ram ser ser for an upd cop of its mod par .
bec dis mod are the par acr mul mac , eac mac nee to com wit jus the sub of par ser sha tha hol the mod par rel to its par .
aft rec an upd cop of its par , the dis mod rep pro a min - bat of dat to com a par gra , and sen the gra to the par ser , whi the app the gra to the cur val of the mod par .
it is pos to red the com ove of dow sgd by lim eac mod rep to req upd par onl eve nf etc ste and sen upd gra val onl eve npu ste ( whe nf etc mig not be equ to npu ) .
in fac , the pro of fet
par ser = w - www ser ( sma mes ) par , pus gra , and pro tra dat can be car out in thr onl wea syn thr ( see the app for pse ) .
in the exp rep bel we xed nf etc = npu = 123 for sim and eas of com to tra sgd .
dow sgd is mor rob to mac fai tha sta ( syn ) sgd .
for syn - chr sgd , if one mac fai , the ent tra pro is del whe for asy sgd , if one mac in a mod rep fai , the oth mod rep con pro the tra dat and upd the mod par via the par ser .
on the oth han , the mul for of asy pro in dow sgd int a gre dea of add sto in the opt pro .
mos obv , a mod rep is alm cer com its gra bas on a set of par tha are sli out of dat , in tha som oth mod rep wil lik hav upd the par on the par ser in the mea .
but the are sev oth sou of sto bey thi : bec the par ser sha act ind , the is no gua tha at any giv mom the par on eac sha of the par ser hav und the sam num of upd , or tha the upd wer app in the sam ord .
mor , bec the mod rep are per to fet par and pus gra in sep thr , the may be add sub inc in the tim of par .
the is lit the gro for the saf of the ope for non pro , but in pra we fou rel con req to be rem eff .
one tec tha we hav fou to gre inc the rob of dow sgd is the use of the ada ( 123 ) ada lea rat pro .
rat tha usi a sin xed lea rat on the par sev ( in fig 123 ) , ada use a sep ada lea rat for eac par .
let i , k be the lea rat of the i - th par at ite k and wi , k its gra , the we set : i , k = / 123
bec the lea rat are com onl fro the sum squ gra of eac par , ada is eas imp loc wit eac par ser sha .
the val of , the con sca fac for all lea rat , is gen lar ( per by an ord of mag ) tha the bes xed lea rat use wit ada .
the use of ada ext the max num of mod rep tha can pro wor sim , and com wit a pra of war mod tra wit onl a sin mod rep bef unl the oth rep , it has vir eli sta con in tra dee net usi dow sgd ( see res in sec 123 ) .
123 san l - bfg
bat met hav bee sho to wor wel in tra sma dee net ( 123 ) .
to app the met to lar mod and lar dat , we int the san bat opt fra - wor and dis an imp of l - bfg usi thi fra .
a key ide in san is dis par sto and man .
the cor of the opt - miz alg ( e . g l - bfg ) res in a coo pro ( fig 123 ) , whi doe not hav dir acc to the mod par .
ins , the coo iss com dra fro a sma set of ope ( e . g . , dot pro , sca , coe - wis add , mul ) tha can be per by eac par ser sha ind , wit the res bei sto loc on the sam sha .
add inf , e . g the his cac for l - bfg , is als sto on the par ser sha on whi it was com .
thi all run lar mod ( bil of par ) wit inc the ove of sen all the par and gra to a sin cen ser .
( see the app for pse . ) in typ par imp of l - bfg , dat is dis to man mac and eac mac is res for com the gra on a spe sub of dat exa .
the gra - die are sen bac to a cen ser ( or agg via a tre ( 123 ) ) .
man suc met wai for the slo mac , and the do not sca wel to lar sha clu .
to acc for thi pro , we emp the fol loa bal sch : the coo ass eac of the n mod rep a sma por of wor , muc sma tha 123 / nth of the tot siz of a bat , and ass rep new por whe the are fre .
wit thi app , fas mod rep do mor wor tha slo rep .
to fur man slo mod rep at the end of a bat , the coo sch mul cop of the out por and use the res fro whi mod rep nis rst .
thi sch is sim to the use of bac tas in the map fra ( 123 ) .
pre of dat , alo wit sup dat afn by ass seq
por of dat to the sam wor mak dat acc a non - iss .
in con wit dow sgd , whi req rel hig fre , hig ban par syn wit the par ser , san wor onl fet par at the beg of eac bat ( whe the hav bee upd by the coo ) , and onl sen the gra eve few com por - tio ( to pro aga rep fai and res ) .
we eva our opt alg by app the to tra mod for two dif dee lea pro : obj rec in sti ima and aco pro for spe rec .
the spe rec tas was to cla the cen reg ( or fra ) in a sho sni of aud as one of sev tho aco sta .
we use a dee net wit ve lay : fou hid lay wit sig act and 123 nod eac , and a sof out lay wit 123 nod .
the inp rep was 123 con ove 123 ms fra of spe , eac rep by 123 log - ene val .
the net was ful - con lay - to - lay , for a tot of app 123 mil mod par .
we tra on a dat set of 123 bil wea lab exa , and eva on a hol out tes set .
see ( 123 ) for sim dee net con and tra for vis obj rec we tra a lar neu net wit loc - con rec eld on the ima dat set of 123 mil ima , eac of whi we sca to 123 pix ( 123 ) .
the net had thr sta , eac com of lte , poo and loc con nor , whe eac nod in the lte lay was con to a 123 pat in the lay bel .
our inf all man nod to con to the sam inp pat , and we ran exp var the num of ide con nod fro 123 to 123
the out lay con of 123 tho one - vs - all log cla nod , one for eac of the ima obj cat .
see ( 123 ) for sim dee net con and tra pro .
mod par ben : to exp the sca beh of dis mod par ( sec 123 ) , we mea the mea tim to pro a sin min - bat for sim sgd tra as a fun of the num of par ( mac ) use in a sin mod ins .
in fig 123 we qua the imp of par acr n mac by rep the ave tra spe - up : the rat of the tim tak usi onl a sin mac to the tim tak usi n .
spe for inf ste in the mod are sim and are not sho her .
the mod siz spe mod run fas on 123 mac , com 123 fas tha usi a sin mac .
( mod wer con to use no mor tha 123 cor per mac . ) par
fig 123 : tra spe - up for fou dif dee net as a fun of mac all to a sin dis mod ins .
mod wit mor par ben mor fro the use of add mac tha do mod wit few par .
123 per mod ins spe ( cid : 123 ) up spe : 123 par : 123 par : 123 par : 123 par fig 123 : lef : tra acc ( on a por of the tra set ) for dif opt met - ods .
rig : cla acc on the hol out tes set as a fun of tra tim .
dow and san exp ini usi the sam 123 hou war of sim sgd .
the mod on mor tha 123 mac act slo tra , as net ove sta to dom in the ful - con net str and the is les wor for eac mac to per wit in con , the muc lar , loc - con ima mod can ben fro usi man mor mac per mod rep .
the lar mod , wit 123 bil par ben the mos , giv a spe of mor tha 123 usi 123 mac .
for the lar mod usi mor mac con to inc spe , but wit dim ret .
opt met com : to eva the pro dis opt pro - dur , we ran the spe mod des abo in a var of con .
we con two bas opt pro : tra a dis mod ( on 123 par ) usi con ( sin rep ) sgd , and tra the ide mod on a gpu usi cud ( 123 ) .
the thr dis - tri opt met we com to the bas met are : dow sgd wit a xed lea rat , dow sgd wit ada lea rat , and san l - bfg .
fig 123 sho cla per as a fun of tra tim for eac of the met on bot the tra and tes set .
our goa is to obt the max tes set acc in the min amo of tra tim , reg of res req .
con sin rep sgd ( bla cur ) is the slo to tra .
dow sgd wit 123 mod rep ( blu cur ) sho a sig imp .
dow sgd wit 123 rep plu ada ( ora cur ) is mod fas .
san l - bfg usi 123 mod rep ( gre cur ) is con fas yet aga .
the fas , how , is dow sgd plu ada wit 123 mod rep ( red cur ) .
giv acc to suf cpu res , bot san l - bfg and dow sgd wit ada can tra mod sub fas tha a hig per gpu .
tho we did not con the abo exp to a xed res bud , it is int to con how the var met tra off res con for per .
we ana thi by arb cho a xed tes set acc ( 123 ) , and mea the tim eac met too to rea tha acc as a fun of mac and uti cpu cor , fig 123
one of the fou poi on eac tra cor to a tra con sho in fig 123 , the oth thr poi are alt con .
in thi plo , poi clo to the ori are pre in tha the tak les tim whi usi few re - sou .
in thi reg dow sgd usi ada app to be the bes tra - off : for any xed bud of mac or cor , dow sgd wit ada tak les tim to rea the acc tar tha eit dow sgd wit a xed lea rat or san l - bfg .
for any all tra tim to rea the acc tar , dow sgd wit ada use few res tha san l - bfg , and in man cas dow sgd wit a xed lea rat cou not eve rea the tar wit the dea .
the san l - bfg sys doe sho pro in ter
123 ( hou ) ave fra acc ( % ) acc on tra set sgd ( 123 ) dow ( 123 ) dow ( 123 ) w / ada lbf ( 123 ) 123 ( hou ) ave fra acc ( % ) acc on tes set sgd ( 123 ) gpu ( 123 ) dow ( 123 ) dow ( 123 ) w / ada ( 123 ) w / ada lbf ( 123 ) fig 123 : tim to rea a xed acc ( 123 ) for dif opt str as a fun of num of the mac ( lef ) and cor ( rig ) .
of its sca wit add cor , sug tha it may ult pro the fas tra tim if use wit an ext lar res bud ( e . g . , 123 cor ) .
app to ima : the pre exp dem tha our tec can acc - era the tra of neu net wit ten of mil of par .
how , the mor sig - nic adv of our clu - bas app to dis opt is its abi to sca to mod tha are muc lar tha can be com t on sin mac , let alo a sin gpu .
as a rst ste tow exp the cap of ver lar neu net , we use dow sgd to tra the 123 bil par ima mod des abo on the ima obj cla - cat tas .
as det in ( 123 ) , thi net ach a cro - val cla acc of ove 123 , a rel imp ove 123 fro the bes per we are awa of on the 123 cat ima cla tas .
in thi pap we int dis , a fra for par dis tra of dee net - wor .
wit thi fra , we dis sev eff dis opt str .
we fou tha dow sgd , a hig asy var of sgd wor sur wel for tra non dee lea mod .
san l - bfg , a dis imp of l - bfg , can be com wit sgd , and its mor efc use of net ban ena it to sca to a lar num of con cor for tra a sin mod .
tha sai , the com - nat of dow sgd wit the ada ada lea rat pro eme as the cle dom met whe wor wit a com bud of 123 cpu cor or les .
ada was not ori des to be use wit asy sgd , and nei met is typ app to non pro .
it is sur , the , tha the wor so wel tog , and on hig non dee net .
we con tha ada aut sta vol par in the fac of the urr of asy upd , and nat adj lea rat to the dem of dif lay in the dee net .
our exp sho tha our new lar - sca tra met can use a clu of mac to tra eve mod siz dee net sig fas tha a gpu , and wit the gpu lim on the max siz of the mod .
to dem the val of bei abl to tra lar mod , we hav tra a mod wit ove 123 bil par to ach bet tha sta - of - the - art per on the ima obj rec cha .
the aut wou lik to tha sam ben , tom dea , joh duc , yuv net , pat ngu , yor sin , seb thr , and vin van for the ind adv , sup , and com .
