act .
a cal sue for the ion of kov ion ses ( dps ) to tic ems is how the ity of ing les ith the ize of the mdp .
in tic nts ith ery rge or ite ate ces , nal ing and ent ing hms may be ble , nce eir ing ime lly ows rly ith the ate ace ize in the rst ase .
in his per we ent a new thm hat , ven nly a ive del ( a ral and mon ype of tor ) for an ary mdp , rms on - ine , ear - mal ing ith a per - ate ing ime hat has no nce on the ber of tes .
the ing ime is ial in the zon ime ( ich nds nly on the unt tor and the red ree of ion to the mal icy ) .
our thm hus des a ent ity ade - off han cal hms uch as lue her han ing rly in oth zon ime and ate ace ize , our ing ime des an ial nce on the mer in nge for no nce on the ter .
our thm is sed on the dea of rse ing .
we ove hat a mly led ook - ead ree hat ers nly a ing ion of the ull ook - ead ree ess ces to ute ear - mal ons rom any ate of an mdp .
cal ons of the thm are sed , and we raw ies to our ted ent lts on ing a ear - est egy rom a ven ass of ies in ery rge lly ble dps ( rns , our , & ng .
ral ion ing ems 123 , to ear ) .
ent ing , kov ion ses , ing
in the ast ade , kov ion ses ( dps ) and ent ing ave ome a ard ork for ing and ing der nty hin the ar - ial nce ure .
the ire to ack ems of ing ity ith his ism has tly led ers to cus lar ion on the ase of ( ex - lly or ven ely ) rge ate ces .
a ber of ing mic and nal ons ave een ade for ing ith uch rge dps .
ion
his rch was ted ile the hor was at t&t abs .
rns , y .
our , and a . y
ion ( ton & rto , 123 ) is a ell - ied ach to ing lue unc - ons in rge ate ces , and any ors ave tly gun to udy the ies of rge dps hat joy act ons , uch as dps in ich the ate ion ies tor nto a all ber of nts ( ier , den , & idt , 23; eau et al . , 23; ler & arr , 123 ) .
in his per , we are ted in the lem of ing a ear - mal icy in a rge or ite mdp hat is hat is , we are ted in ing .
it uld be ear hat as we der ery rge dps , the cal ing ion hat the mdp is ven tly by les of rds and ion ies mes ble .
one ach to his nal lty is to ume hat the mdp has ome ial ure hat its act ion ( uch as the red ion ili - ies ned ove ) , and to ign ial - ose ing hms hat oit his
ere we ake a tly ent ach .
we der a ing in ich our ing thm is ven ess to a ive del , or tor , of the mdp .
lly , his is a ack box to ich we can ive any ate - ion air ( s , a ) , and ive in urn a mly led ext ate and ard rom the ons ted ith ( s , a ) .
ive els ave een sed in ion ith ome ion ion mes ( ton & rto , 123 ) , and are a ral way in ich a rge mdp ght be ied .
ver , hey are ore ral han ost red ons , in the nse hat any red ons ( uch as red els ( ier , den , & idt , 23; eau et al . , 23; ler & arr , 123 ) ) lly ide an ent way of ing a ive del .
ote lso hat ive els lso ide ess ion han cit les of ies , but ore ion han a gle ous ory of nce ted ing to ome ion icy , and so we iew lts ned via ive els as ing the ion een hat is lly led ing and ing in dps .
our ain ult is a new thm hat ses the ven ive del to orm ear - mal ing in an on - ine ion .
by on - ine , we ean hat , lar to eal - ime rch ods ( orf , 23; rto , tke , & ngh , 23; nig & ons , 123 ) , our hms ion at any ime is sed on ing an ons for a gle ent ate , and ing is ved ith ing ons .
ore ely , ven any ate s , the thm ses the ive del to raw les for any ate - ion irs , and ses ese les to ute a ear - mal ion rom s , ich is hen ted .
the unt of ime red to ute a ear - mal ion rom any lar ate s has no nce on the ber of tes in the mdp , ven ugh the ext - ate ons rom s may be ery use ( hat is , ave rge ort ) .
the key to our sis is in ing hat ate rse ing ces to uct ugh ion out the ent ear s to ute a ear - mal ion .
the sis ies on a ion of man ion ons , ich are ard in ent ing , and orm nce nts , ich are ard in sed ng; his ion of ues was rst ied in rns and ngh ( 123 ) .
as ned , the ing ime red at ach ate oes ave an ial nce on the zon ime , ich we how to be ble out her ons .
ver , our lts ave pen the
a rse ing thm
ity of an thm hat uns in ime ial in the acy ter , ich ins an ant pen lem .
ote hat one can iew our ing thm as ply ing a ( tic ) cya icy hat ens to use a ive del as a ine .
in his nse , if we iew the ive del as ing a act ion of the mdp , our thm des a gly act ion of a ear - mal icy .
we iew our ult as ary to ork hat ses and its lar act ons of dps ( eau et al . , 123 ) , ith oth nes of ork ing to ate the ial ity of ing and ing in ery rge nts .
the der of his per is red as ows : in ion 123 , we ive the mal ons ded in his per .
ion 123 hen ves our ain ult , an thm for ing in rge or ite dps , ose per - ate ing ime oes not end on the ize of the ate ace .
lly , ion 123 bes ted lts and pen ems .
we gin ith the ion of a kov ion ess on a set of n |s| tes , tly ing the ity of the ber of tes ing ( bly or bly )
ion 123
a kov ion ess m on a set of tes s and ith ons ( 123 , .
, ak ) sts of : ion ies : for ach ate - ion air ( s , a ) , a ext - ate ion psa ( s hat ies the ity of ion to ach ate s pon ion of ion a rom ard ons : for ach ate - ion air ( s , a ) , a ion rsa on eal - ued rds for ing ion a rom ate s .
we ume rds are ded in ute lue by max .
for ity , we all ume in his per hat all rds are in act hat is , the ard ons ave ero nce , and hus the ard ved for ing a rom s is ays tly rsa .
ver , all of our lts ave asy ons for the ase of tic rds , ith an ate and ary nce on the nce of the ard ons .
out the per , we ill ily be ted in dps ith a ery rge ( or ven ite ) ber of tes , hus ing hes hat ute tly on the ull ext - ate ons .
ead , we ill ume hat our ing hms are ven m in the orm of the ity to ple the ior of m .
hus , the del ven is ive her han cit .
we all his ity to ple the ior of m a ive del .
ion 123
a ive del for a kov ion ess m is a zed thm hat , on put of a ate - ion air ( s , a ) , uts rsa and a ate s mly awn ing to the ion ies psa ( ) .
, ere s
rns , y .
our , and a . y
we ink of a ive del as ing ere in een ing ven cit ext - ate ons , and ing ven nly ble nce in the mdp ( in ich the ent ows a gle , ous ory , ith no ity to set to any red ate ) .
on the one and , a ive del may ten be ble hen cit ext - ate ons are ot; on the her , a ive del tes the ant sue of ion hat ses in a ing ere we nly ave ble nce .
in his nse , ing lts ing ive els lur the ion een hat is lly led ing and hat is lly led ing .
ing ard ogy , we ene a ( tic ) icy to be any ing : s ( cid : 123 ) ( 123 , .
hus ( s ) may be a dom ble , but nds nly on the ent ate s .
we ill be ily ned ith ted dps , 123 so we ume we are ven a ber 123 < 123 led the unt tor , ith ich we hen ene the lue ion v for any icy :
v ( s ) = e
ere ri is the ard ved on the ith tep of ing the icy rom ate s , and the ion is ver the ion ies and any ion in .
ote hat for any s and any , |v ( s ) | max , ere we ene max = max / ( 123 ) .
we lso ene the q - ion for a ven icy as
q ( s , a ) = rsa + es ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ( v ( s ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ans hat s
is awn ing to the ion psa ( ) ) .
( ere the ion s we ill ter ibe an thm a hat kes as put any ate s and ( lly ) uts an ion a , and ich ore nts a icy .
hen we ave uch an thm , we ill lso ite v to ote the lue ion and q - ion of the icy ted by a .
lly , we ene the mal lue ion and the mal ( s , a ) = sup q ( s , a ) , and the mal icy q - ion as v
( s ) = sup v ( s ) and q ( s , a ) for all s s .
, ( s ) = arg axa q
ing in rge or ite dps
lly , one ers the ing lem in dps to be hat of ing a ood icy , ven as put the ion ies psa ( ) and the rds rsa ( for nce , by ing the mdp for the mal icy ) .
hus , the put is a ete and act del , and the put is a tal ing rom tes to ons .
out nal ons out the ure of the mdp , uch an ach is rly ble in ery rge ate ces , ere ven ing all of the put can ake n 123 ime , and ven ing a ral icy res ace on the der of n .
in uch dps , a ore ful way of ing out ing ght be an on - ine iew , in ich we ine the per - ate ity of ing .
hus , the put to a ing thm uld be a gle ate , and the put uld be ich
a rse ing thm
gle ion to ake rom hat ate .
in his on - ine iew , a ing thm is elf ply a icy ( but one hat may eed to orm ome ial ion at ach ate ) .
our ain ult is the ion and sis of an thm a hat , ven ess to a ive del for an ary mdp m , kes any ate of m as put and ces an ion as put , and ets the ing nce ria : the icy ted by a is ear - mal in m; the ing ime of a ( hat is , the ime red to ute an ion at any ate ) has
no nce on the ber of tes of m .
his ult is ned der the ion hat ere is an o ( 123 ) ime and ace way to fer to the tes , a ard ion own as the orm ost del ( aho , oft , & man , 123 ) , hat is lly ted to low sis of hms hat ate on eal ers ( uch as we ire to low ite ate ces ) .
the orm ost del lly its the ity of ite - ion ers ( and ant - ize try for ing the sic tic ons on ese ers ) .
if one is ppy ith his del , hen thm a ill fer a nce on the ber of tes nly ual to the ace red to ame the tes ( at rst log ( n ) for n tes ) .
a rse ing ner
ere is our ain ult : rem 123
ere is a zed thm a hat , ven ess to a ive del for any k - ion mdp m , kes as put any ate s s and any lue > 123 , uts an ion , and ses the ing two ons : ( ncy ) the ing ime of a is o ( ( kc ) h ) , ere
h = ( cid : 123 ) log ( / max ) ( cid : 123 ) , c = v 123 = ( ( 123 ) 123 ) / 123 , max = max / ( 123 ) .
in lar , the ing ime nds nly on max , , and , and oes not end on n |s| .
if we iew max as a ant , the ing ime und can lso be ten
( ear - ity ) the lue ion of the tic icy ted by a ses
sly for all tes s s .
rns , y .
our , and a . y
as we ave ady ted , it ill be ful to ink of thm a in two ent ays .
on the one and , a is an thm hat kes a ate as put and has ess to a ive del , and as uch we all be ted in its rce its ing ime , and the ber of lls it eds to ake to the ive del ( oth per ate put ) .
on the her and , a ces an ion as put in nse to ach ate ven as put , and hus nts a ( bly tic ) icy .
the oof of rem 123 is ven in dix a , and led udo - ode for the thm is ded in ure 123
we now ive ome igh - vel ion for the thm and its sis .
ven as put a ate s , the thm ust use the ive del to nd a ear - mal ion to orm rom ate s .
the sic dea of the thm is to ple the ive del rom tes in the ood of s .
his ows us to uct a all rom s is a ear - mal ion rom s in m . 123 ere ill be no tee hat m ill ain ugh ion to ute a ood ion rom any ate her han s .
ver , in nge for his ted ity , the mdp m ill ave a ber of tes hat oes not end on the ber of tes
of m uch hat the mal ion in m
ure 123
thm a for ing in rge or ite ate ces .
tev nds the v ext , and teq nds sly ned q
thm a nts the icy .
h bed in the
a rse ing thm
the cal ure of m
ill be ven by a ted ree in ich ach ode is led by a ate , and ach ted dge to a ild is led by an ion and a ard .
for the ake of ity , let us der nly the two - ion ase ere , ith ons 123 and 123
ach ode ill ave c ren in ich the dge to the ild is led 123 , and c ren in ich the dge to the ild is led 123
the oot ode of m
is led by the ate of est s , and we ate the 23c ren of s in the ous way : we all the ive del c mes on the ate - ion air ( s , 123 ) to get the 123 - ren , and on c mes on ( s , 123 ) to get the 123 - ren .
the ges to ese ren are lso led by the rds ned by the ive del , and the ild des ves are led by the tes ned .
we ill ild his ( 23c ) - ary ree to ome pth to be ned .
ote hat m
is lly a rse ook - ead ree .
we can lso ink of m
as an mdp in ich the art ate is s , and in ich ing an ion rom a ode in the ree ses a ion to a ( mly ) dom ild of hat ode ith the ing ion el; the ess eaf des are red ing tes .
der his ion , we can ute the mal ion to ake rom the oot s .
ure 123 ows a ual ure of his ree for a run of the thm rom an put ate 123 , for c = 123
( c ill lly be uch ger ) .
rom the oot 123 , we try ion 123 ree mes and ion 123 ree mes .
rom ach of the ing tes , we lso try ach ion c mes , and so on own to pth h in the ree .
ero ues ned to the ves hen ond to our tes of v
eir nts , ich are in urn ked - up to eir nts , and so on , up to the oot to nd an ate of v the ral aim we ish out m
123 , ich are ked - up to nd tes of v
is hat its ize can be ent of the ber of tes in m , yet ill ult in our ing ear - mal ons at the oot .
we do his by ing nds on the red pth h of the ree and the red ree c .
all hat the mal icy at s is ven by ( s ) = arg axa q ( s , a ) , and ore ( s , ) .
ing the q - ues is ely ned by , and ily ted rom , q
ure 123
rse ook - ead ree of tes ted by the thm ( own ith c = 123 , ons 123 , 123 ) .
rns , y .
our , and a . y
is a mon way of ing in dps .
rom the ard ity een q - ons and lue ons , the ask of ing q - ons is ery lar to hat of ing lue ons .
so ile the thm ses the q - ion , we ill , ely for ory ses , lly ibe ere how we ate v
ere are two rts to the ion we use .
rst , her han ing v
ill lly ate , for a lue of h to be ied ter , the h - tep ted ted
( s ) , ven by
( s ) = e
ere ri is the ard ved on the ith ime tep pon ing the mal icy
rom s .
ver , we see hat the v ( s ) = rsa + es ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ( v
( s ) , for h 123 , are ely ven by
( rsa + es ( cid : 123 ) psa ( ) ( v
is the ion ken by the mal icy rom ate s , and v
( s ) = 123
the ity of the ion in eq .
( 123 ) mes ter for ger ues of h , and is bly ght for the est lue h = h we lly ose .
one of the ain rts in the oof is ing hat the ror red by the ive ion of his ion can be ade bly all by ing h tly rge .
hus , if we are ble to ain an ate v
( cid : 123 ) ) of v , we can ely ene an thm for ing an ate v
( s ) by ing use of eq .
our ( s ) of v thm ill ate the ion in eq .
( 123 ) by a ple of c dom ext tes rom the ive del , ere c is a ter to be ned ( and ich , for ons hat ill ome ear ter , we all the dth ) .
ely , ven a way of ing the
, we nd our ate v
( cid : 123 ) ) for any s
( cid : 123 ) ) for any s
( s ) as ows :
( s ) of v
tly led tes rom the ext - ate ion psa ( ) .
for ach ion a , use the ive del to get rsa and to ple a set sa of c 123
use our ure for ing v
( cid : 123 ) ) for ach ate s
in any of the
ing eq .
( 123 ) , our ate of v
( s ) is hen ven by
( s ) = max
123 to ate v
to ete the ion of the thm , all hat ins is to ose the pth h and the ter c , ich ols the dth of the ree .
ing the red pth h is the asy and ard art .
it is not ard to see hat if we ose pth h = log ( 123 ) / max ( the so - led - zon ime ) , hen the ted sum of the rds hat is ned by ing rds ond his zon is ded by .
a rse ing thm
the ral aim we ish out c is hat it can be sen ent of the ber of tes in m , yet ill ult in ing ear - mal ons at the oot .
the key to the ent is hat ven ugh all les may ive ery oor ons to the ext - ate ion at ach ate in the ree , hey ill , ess , ive ood tes of the ion rms of eq .
( 123 ) , and hat is lly all we eed .
for his we ply a ful ion of orm nce ods and ive nts on the ree pth .
ain , the cal ils of the oof are in dix a .
in ral , the ing ree may ent nly a ing ion of all of the h - tep ths ing rom 123 hat ave non - ero ity in the hat is , the rse ook - ead ree ers nly a ing art of the ull ook - ead ree .
in his nse , our thm is rly ted to and red by cal ook - ead rch ues ( ell & vig , 123 ) ing ous eal - ime rch hms ( orf , 23; rto , tke , & ngh , 23; net , ncs , & ner , 23; nig & ons , 123 ) and ing zon ers .
ost of ese cal rch hms , ver , run nto ies in ery rge or ite dps ith use ons , nce eir rch ees can ave ily rge ( or ven ite ) ing ors .
our ain ion is ing hat in rge tic nts , ver dom ing ces to re - uct rly all of the ion ble in the ( lly or ely ) rge ull ook - ead ree .
ote hat in the ase of tic nts , ere rom ach ate - ion air we can ach nly a gle ext ate , the rse and ull ees ide ( ing a ion ick bed low ) , and our thm ces to cal tic ook - ead rch .
cal ues and wer nds ven ugh the ing ime of thm a oes not end on the ize of the mdp , it ill uns in ime ial in the - zon ime h , and ore ial in 123 / ( 123 ) .
it uld eem hat the thm uld be cal nly if is not too ose to 123
in a ent , we ill ive a wer und ing it is not ble to do uch ter out her ons on the mdp .
ess , ere are a ple of ple cks hat may elp to uce the ing ime in ain ses , and we ibe ese cks rst .
the rst dea is to low ent nts of ing at ach vel of the ree .
the ion is hat the her we are rom the oot , the ess nce our tes ill ave on the q - ues at the oot ( due to the ing ) .
hus , we can ple ore ely at per els of the ree out ing too rse an act on our ion .
we ave zed ous mes for ing the unt of ing at a ode end on its pth .
one of the ods we ted ult in a ing ime ich is ial in 123 / .
ver , one cic eme hat ces the ing ime tly is to let the ber of les per ion at pth i be ci = 23i c , ere the ter c now ols the unt of ing one at the oot .
the ror in the q - ues ing uch a eme oes not ase by uch , and the ing ime is the are oot of our nal ing ime .
ond his and ous to how cal rch ees can ten be ned in ays hat tly uce ing ime , a ber of ard ree ing ods may lso be ied to our hms ees ( ell & vig , 123 ) ( see lso den
rns , y .
our , and a . y
& ier , 123 ) , and we ate hat his may tly eed up the thm in her way in ich ant ngs ght be ved is ugh the use of emo - ion in our nes for ing the v ( s ) s .
in ure 123 , his ans hat ver ere are two des at the ame vel of the ree hat ond to the ame ate , we pse hem nto one ode ( ing ust one of eir ees ) .
ile it is ard to how the ess of uch ion res for tic res , one ust be ful hen ing zed res .
we can how hat the ant per - ies of our thm are ned der his ion .
eed , his ion is rly ice hen the ain is lly tic : if ach ion lly ses a ion to a xed ext - ate , hen the ree uld row nly as k h ( ere k is the ber of ons ) .
if the ain is rly tic , hen we ave ior ere in een .
rly , if ere are nly ome 123 ( cid : 123 ) |s| tes ble rom 123 , hen the ree uld lso ver row der han 123 , ing it a ize of o ( 123 h ) .
in ing the thm , one may ish not to ify a ted acy in nce , but her to try to do as ell as is ble ith the nal ces ble .
in his ase , an ive - ing ach may be ken .
his uld ail sly ing c and h by ing the get .
lso , as ied in ies , ng , and ore ( 123 ) , if we ave ess to an ial ate of the lue ion , we can ace our tes v ( s ) = 123 at the ves ith the ted lue ion at ose tes .
ugh we all not do so ere , it is ain asy to ake mal nce ees ing on c , h and the mum ror of the lue ion ate we are ing .
ely , ite ese cks , it is not ult to ove a wer und hat ows hat any ing thm ith ess nly to a ive del , and ich nts a icy hat is - ose to mal in a ral mdp , ust ave ing ime at ast ial in the - zon ime .
we now ibe his wer und .
rem 123
let a be any thm hat is ven ess nly to a ive del for an mdp m , and uts s ( a ate in m ) and .
let the tic icy ted by a
sly for all tes s s .
hen ere sts an mdp m on ich a kes at ast ( 23h ) = ( ( 123 / ) ( 123 / log ( 123 / ) ) ) lls to the ive del .
oof : let h = log = log ( 123 / ) / log ( 123 / ) .
der a ary ree t of pth h .
we use t to ene an mdp in the ing way .
the tes of the mdp are the des of the ree .
the ons of the mdp are ( 123 , 123 ) .
hen we are in ate s and orm an ion b we ach ( lly ) ate sb , ere sb is the b - ild of s in t .
if s is a eaf of t hen we ove to an ing ate .
we ose a dom eaf v in the ree .
the ard ion for v and any ion is max , and the ard at any her ate and ion is ero .
thm a is ven 123 , the oot of t .
for thm a to ute a ear mal icy , it has to nd the ode v , and ore has to orm at ast ( 23h ) lls to the ive
a rse ing thm
ary and ted ork
we ave bed an thm for ear - mal ing rom a ive del , hat has a per - ate ing ime hat oes not end on the ize of the ate ace , but ich is ill ial in the - zon ime .
an ant pen lem is to ose the gap een our wer and per und .
our wer und ows hat the ber of eps has to row yno - lly in 123 / ile in the per und the ber of eps ows sub - lly in 123 / , ore ely ( 123 / ) o ( log ( 123 / ) ) .
ing his gap , her by ing an thm hat uld be ial in 123 / or by ing a ter wer und , is an ing pen lem .
two ing ons for ent are to low lly ble dps ( dps ) , and to nd ore ent hms hat do not ave ial nce on the zon ime .
as a rst tep rds oth of ese als , in a ate per ( rns , our , & ng , to ear ) we ate a ork in ich the oal is to use a ner - ive del to nd a ear - est egy hin a ted ass of ies for a mdp .
cal les of uch ted egy ses ude ted - ory ies in dps , or ies in rge dps hat ent a ear ing rom ate ors to ons .
our ain ult in his ork ays hat as ong as the ted ass of ies is not too lex ( ere his is zed ing ate ons of ard ons ike vc ion rom sed ing ) , hen it is ble to nd a ear - est egy rom hin the ass , in ime hat ain has no nce on the ize of the ate ace .
if the ted ass of ies is hly zed , hen his her ads to a ber of ast , cal hms for ing ent ent to nd the ear - est egy hin the ass , ere the ing ime of ach ent ent tep now has nly ear her han ial nce on the zon ime .
her ach to ing in dps hat is sed on the thm ted ere is ted by ter and ngh ( 123 ) , who how how the ate ief - ate ing ods of yen and ler ( 123 ) can be ned ith our thm .
dix a : oof tch of rem 123
in his dix , we ive the oof of rem 123
rem 123
ere is a zed thm a hat , ven ess to a ive del for any k - ion mdp m , kes as put any ate s s and any lue > 123 , uts an ion , and ses the ing two ons : ( ncy ) the ing ime of a is o ( ( kc ) h ) , ere
h = ( cid : 123 ) log ( / max ) ( cid : 123 ) , c = v 123 = ( ( 123 ) 123 ) / 123 ,
max = max / ( 123 ) .
rns , y .
our , and a . y
in lar , the ing ime nds nly on max , , and , and oes not end on n |s| .
if we iew max as a ant , the ing ime und can lso be ten
( ear - ity ) the lue ion of the tic icy ted by a ses
sly for all tes s s .
out the sis we ill ely on the udo - ode ded for thm a ven in ure 123
the aim on the ing ime is ate rom the ion of thm a .
ach all to teq tes kc lls to tev , c lls for ach ion .
ach ive all lso ces the pth ter h by one , so the pth of the ion is at ost h .
ore the ing ime is o ( ( kc ) h ) .
the ain ort is in ing hat the ues of teq are eed ood tes for the sen ues of c and h .
ere are two ces of acy in ese tes .
the rst is hat we use nly a ite ple to ate an nwe raw nly c tes rom the ext - ate ons .
the ond rce of acy is hat ( ) but her ues in ing teq , we are not lly ing the ues of v ned by tev , ich are ves nly tes .
the ial tep in the oof is to how hat as h ses , the all acy ses .
let us rst ene an ate dom ble hat ill ure the acy due
to the ted ing .
ene u
( s , a ) as ows :
( s , a ) = rsa +
ere the si are awn ing to psa ( ) .
ote hat u ( s , a ) is ing ues of ( ) , the own lue ion .
nce u ( s , a ) is sed nly for the oof and not in the thm , ere is no lem in ing it his way .
the ext mma ows hat ith igh ( s , a ) is at ost .
ity , the nce een u mma 123
for any ate s and ion a , ith ity at ast 123 e
( s , a ) and q
max we ave
( s , a ) u
( s , a ) | =
ere the ity is ken ver the raw of the si rom psa ( ) .
a rse ing thm
oof : ote hat q
( s , a ) = rsa + psa ( ) ( v
the oof is ate rom the
now hat we ave ied the ror due to ite ing , we can und the ror ( ) .
we und his ror as rom our ing ues ned by tev her han v ( s , a ) and tev .
in der to ake our ion ler , let the nce een u v n ( s ) be the lue ned by tev ( n , c , , g , s ) , and let qn ( s , a ) be the ent in the put of teq ( n , c , , g , s ) hat nds to ion a .
ing his ion , our thm tes
qn ( s , a ) = rsa +
v 123 ( si )
ere v 123 ( s ) = axa ( 123 ( s , a ) ) , and 123 ( s , a ) = 123 for ery ate s and ion a .
we now ene a ter n hat ill lly und the nce een q
and qn ( s , a ) .
we ene n ely :
ere 123 = max .
ing for h we ain
123 = ( + n )
+ h max
+ h max .
the ext mma nds the ror in the ion , at vel n , by n .
ely , the ror due to ite ing tes , ile the ors in ion ute n .
the ned ror is + n , but nce we are ing , the ive ror is nly ( + n ) , ich by ion is 123
mma 123
ith ity at ast 123 ( kc ) ne
max we ave hat
( s , a ) qn ( s , a ) | n .
oof : the oof is by ion on n .
it rly lds for n = 123
( s , a ) qn ( s , a ) | =
v 123 ( si )
v 123 ( si )
( si ) 123
( + n ) = 123
rns , y .
our , and a . y
we ire hat all of the c ild tes be ood , for ach of the k ons .
his ans hat the ity of a bad ate ses by a tor of kc , for ach n .
by mma 123 the ity of a gle bad ate is ded by e max .
ore the ity of ome bad ate is ded by 123 ( kc ) ne
rom h h ax+ / ( 123 ) , we lso see hat for h = log ( / max ) , ith ity 123 ( kc ) h e max all the nal tes q h ( 123 , a ) are hin 123 / ( 123 ) rom the rue q - ues .
the ext tep is to ose c uch hat = / max ( kc ) h e und the ity of a bad ate ing the ire ion .
lly ,
c = v 123
is ent to ure hat ith ity 123 all the tes are ate .
at his int we ave own hat ith igh ity , thm a tes a ood ( 123 , a ) for all a , ere 123 is the put ate .
to ete the oof , we eed ate of q to ate his to the ted lue of a tic icy .
we ive a rly ral ult out dps , ich oes not end on our cic thm .
( a lar ult ars in ngh & yee , 123 ) .
mma 123
ume hat is a tic icy , so hat ( s ) is a dom ble .
if for ( s , ( s ) ) < is at ast 123 , hen the ach ate s , the ity hat q ted ite zon urn of is at ost ( + max ) / ( 123 ) rom the mal urn , i . e . , for any ate sv
( s ) v ( s ) ( + max ) / ( 123 ) .
( s , ( s ) ) q
oof : nce we ume hat the rds are ded by max , it ies hat the ted urn of at ach ate s is at ast ( s , ( s ) ) ) ( 123 ) ( q
( s , ( s ) ) ) max
( s , ( s ) ) max .
( s , ( s ) ) is at ost , hen v
now we how hat if has the rty hat at ach ate s the nce een ( s ) v ( s ) / ( 123 ) .
( a lar ( s , ( s ) ) ) and q ult was ved by ngh and yee ( 123 ) , for the ase hat ach ion sen has ( s , ( s ) ) q ( s , ( s ) ) .
it is asy to end eir oof to dle the ase ere , and we tch a oof nly for ess ) .
ues ely ies |e ( r ( s , ( s ) ) ) e ( r ( s , ( s ) ) ) | the ion on the q .
der a icy j hat tes for the rst j + 123 eps and hen tes i .
his we can how by ion on j hat for ery ate s , v i = / ( 123 ) .
ies hat v by ing = + max the mma ows .
( s ) v ( s ) ( cid : 123 )
( s ) v j ( s ) ( cid : 123 ) j
now we can ine all the mas to ove our ain rem .
a rse ing thm
oof of rem 123 : as sed ore , the ing ime is ate rom the thm , and the ain ork is ing hat we ute a ear - mal icy .
by mma 123 we ave hat the ror in the ion of q is at ost h , ith ity 123 ( kc ) h e max .
ing the ues we ose for c and h we ave hat ith ity 123 the ror is at ost 123 / ( 123 ) .
by mma 123 his ies hat uch a icy has the rty hat rom ery ate s ,
( s ) v ( s )
ing ack the ues of = / max and = ( 123 ) 123 / 123 hat we had sen , it
( s ) v ( s ) 123
we ive arm nks to der ngh for any ing ons and ous hts on the eas ted ere .
rth , ing hat eds to be ble is med to be ble .
ver , our lts can be zed to the ted ite - zon ase for any xed zon h
( ter & ing , 123 ) .
ill not lly be a sub - mdp of m , in the nse of ing tly ded in m , due to the ons
of dom ing .
but it ill be ery ear uch an ded mdp .
