in ent ars , eep ing hes ave ned ant est as a way of ing cal ons rom led ata .
ver , to our dge , ese eep ing hes ave not een ely tud - ied for ory ata .
in his per , we ply nal eep ief net - rks to dio ata and lly ate hem on ous dio ion sks .
in the ase of ech ata , we how hat the ned res ond to nes / mes .
in ion , our ure ons ned rom led dio ata how ery ood nce for ple dio ion sks .
we ope hat his per ill ire ore rch on eep ing hes ied to a ide nge of dio ion sks .
ing how to ize lex , igh - nal dio ata is one of the est hal - ges of our ime .
ous ork ( 123 , 123 ) led hat ing a rse ion of ory als ads to ers hat ely ond to ose of ons in rly dio ing in mam - als .
for ple , hen rse ing els are ied to ral nds or ech , the ned ons ( sis ors ) wed a ing nce to the ear ers in the ory tex .
in ted ork , sse et al .
( 123 ) sed an ent rse ing thm for ory als and ted its ess in dio ion sks .
ver , the sed ods ave een ied to arn ely low , one - yer nta - ons .
ing ore lex , her - vel ion is ill a non - ial , ing lem .
tly , any ing hes ave een sed to arn the ing eps of the sec - ond age and ond ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ese eep ing hms try to arn ple res in the wer ers and ore lex res in the her ers .
ver , to the est of our dge , ese eep ing hes ave not een ely ied to ory ata .
the eep ief ork ( 123 ) is a ive tic del sed of one ble ( ved ) yer and any den ers .
ach den yer nit rns a cal hip een the its in the wer er; the her yer ons end to ome ore lex .
the eep ief ork can be tly ned ing edy ise ing , in ich the den ers are ned one at a ime in a tom - up ion ( 123 ) .
tly , nal eep ief rks ( 123 ) ave een ped to ale up the thm to igh - nal ata .
lar to eep ief rks , nal eep ief rks can be ned in a edy , tom - up ion .
by ing ese rks to ges , lee et al .
( 123 ) wed ood nce in ral ual ion sks ( 123 ) .
in his per , we ill ply nal eep ief rks to led ory ata ( uch as ech and sic ) and ate the ned ure ons on ral dio ion sks .
in the ase of ech ata , we how hat the ned res ond to nes / mes .
in ion , our ure ons orm her ine res ( ram and fcc )
for ple dio ion sks .
in lar , our hod res bly ith her ate - of - the - art hms for the ker ion ask .
for the one ion ask , fcc res can be ted ith our res to ove acy .
we lso how for ain sks hat the ond - yer res uce her acy han the rst - yer res , ich ies the use of eep ing hes for dio ion .
lly , we how hat our res ive ter nce in son to her ine res for sic ion sks .
in our nts , the ned res ten med uch ter han her ine res hen ere was nly a all ber of led ing les .
to the est of our dge , we are the rst to ply eep ing hms to a nge of dio ion sks .
we ope hat his per ill ire ore rch on eep ing hes ied to dio ion sks .
123 nal eep ief rks
we rst iey iew nal ted ann nes ( bms ) ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) as ing cks for nal eep ief rks ( bns ) .
we ill low the ion of ( 123 ) and apt it to a one nal ing .
for the ose of his ion , we ume hat all uts to the thm are gle - nel ime - ies ata ith nv mes ( an nv nal tor ) ; ver , the ion can be dly ded to the ase of ple els .
the rbm is an ion of the lar rbm ( 123 ) to a nal ing , in ich the hts een the den its and the ble its are red ong all ons in the den yer .
the rbm sts of two ers : an put ( ble ) yer v and a den yer h .
the den its are ary - ued , and the ble its are ary - ued or eal - ued .
der the put yer ing of an nv nal ray of ary its .
to uct the den yer , der k nw - nal ter hts w k ( lso red to as ses out his per ) .
the den yer sts of k ups of nh - nal ays ( ere nh ( cid : 123 ) nv nw + 123 ) ith its in oup k ing the hts w k .
ere is lso a red ias bk for ach oup and a red ias c for the ble its .
the rgy ion can hen be ned as :
e ( v , h ) = k ( cid : 123 )
e ( v , h ) =
r 123 k ( cid : 123 ) r 123 k ( cid : 123 )
rly , the rgy ion of rbm ith eal - ued ble its can be ned as :
the int and nal ity ons are ned as ows :
p ( v , h ) = j = 3|v ) = oid ( ( w k v v ) j + bk )
p ( vi = 3|h ) = oid ( ( cid : 123 ) p ( i|h ) = n mal ( ( cid : 123 )
( w k f hk ) i + c )
( for ary ble its )
( w k f hk ) i + c , 123 )
( for eal ble its ) ,
ere v is a lid ion , f is a ull ion , 123 and w k nw 123
nce all its in one yer are lly ent ven the her yer , nce in the ork can be tly med ing ock bbs ing .
lee et al .
( 123 ) her ped a nal rbm ith tic max - ing , ere the ima ver all ods of den its are ted in a lly und way .
( see ( 123 ) for ore ils . ) in his per , we use bms ith tic max - ing as ing cks for nal eep ief rks .
( cid : 123 ) w k
ven an m - nal tor and an n - nal nel ( ere m > n ) , lid ion ves a
( m n + 123 ) - nal tor , and ull ion ves a ( m + n 123 ) - nal tor .
for ing the nal bms , ing the act ent for the log - ood erm is in - ble .
ver , ive nce ( 123 ) can be sed to ate the ent ely .
nce a cal rbm is hly ete , a ity lty erm is ded to the log - ood ive ( 123 , 123 ) .
ore lly , the ing ive can be ten as
ood ( w , b , c ) + ity ( w , b , c ) ,
ere ood is a ive log - ood hat res how ell the rbm tes the put ata ion , and ity is a lty erm hat ins the den its to ing rse age ons .
his ity ion can be wed as ing the ity of the ork , and it ten lts in ore ily ble ure ons .
nce the ers for all the ers are ned , we ack the bms to orm a nal eep ief ork .
for nce , we use eed - ard ion .
123 ion to dio ata for the ion of bns to dio ata , we rst ert ime - ain als nto tro - ams .
ver , the ity of the ams is rge ( e . g . , 123 els ) .
we ply pca ing to the ams and ate wer nal ons .
hus , the ata we eed nto the dbn sts of nc els of one - nal ors of gth nv , ere nc is the ber of pca nts in our ion .
rly , the rst - yer ses are sed of nc els of one - nal ers of gth nw .
123 sed ure ing 123 ing on led mit ata we ned the rst and ond - yer dbn ons ing a rge , led ech set .
rst , we ted the ram rom ach nce of the mit ing ata ( 123 ) .
the pec - ram had a 123 ms dow ize ith 123 ms aps .
the ram was her sed ing pca ing ( ith 123 nts ) to uce the ity .
we hen ned 123 rst - yer ses ith a ter gth ( nw ) of 123 and a max - ing tio ( cal ood ize ) of 123
we her ned 123 ond - yer ses ing the max - led rst - yer ons as put , ain ith a ter gth of 123 and a max - ing tio of 123
in his ion , we ate hat the ork rns ugh ion .
we ize the rst - yer ses by ing the rse of the pca ing on ach rst - yer sis ( ure 123 ) .
ach ond - yer sis is zed as a ted ear ion of the rst - yer ses .
ure 123 : ion of mly ted rst - yer dbn ses ned on the mit ata .
ach umn nts a ral ive eld of a rst - yer sis in the ram ace .
the ncy els are red rom the est ncy ( tom ) to the est ncy ( top ) .
all res in the per are est wed in lor .
123 . 123 mes and the dbn res in ure 123 , we how how our ses ate to mes by ing ons of ach eme ith the ses hat are ost ted by hat eme .
for ach eme , we how ve ams of und ips of hat eme ( top ve mns in ach eme oup ) , and the ve rst - yer ses ith the est age ons on the ven eme ( tom ve mns in ach eme oup ) .
any of the rst - yer ses ely tch the pes of mes .
ere are ent tal nds in the wer ies of the rst - yer ses hat ond ost to els ( for ple , ah and oy ) .
the ses hat ond ost
igh req .
low req . ure 123 : ion of the our ent mes and eir ing rst - yer dbn ses .
for ach eme : ( top ) the ams of the ve mly ted es; ( tom ) ve rst - yer ses ith the est age ons on the ven eme .
to ves ( for ple , s ) lly ake the orm of ely ted eas of rgy in the igh ies of the ram .
oth of ese rns ect the ure of the ing ser ion of the ses des ght nce hat the rst - yer ses lso ure ore ne - ned ils .
for ple , the rst and ird oy ses ect the ard - ing ern in the eme ams .
the top el ses ror the ity rns of the ing eme ams : a igh ity ion ars in the est ies , and her ion of ser ity ars a bit her up .
123 . 123 ker der ion and the dbn res
in ure 123 , we how an sis of two - yer dbn ure ons ith ect to the gen - der ion ask ( ion 123 ) .
ote hat the ork was ned on led ta; ore , no ion out ker der was ven ing ing .
ure 123 : ( eft ) ve ram les of ae eme rom ale ( top ) / ale ( tom ) eak - ( dle ) ion of the ve rst - yer ses hat ost lly ate for fe - ale / ale ers .
( ght ) ion of the ve ond - yer ses hat ost lly ate for ale / ale ers .
for son ith the dbn res , mly ted ams of ale ( top eft ve mns ) and ale ( tom eft ve mns ) ons of the ae eme rom the mit set are own .
ams for the ale ons are ely ble by a ner tal ing ern in low ies , eas ale ons ave ore red
ple nes ( " ah " ) ple nes ( " oy " ) ple nes ( " el " ) ple nes ( " s " ) rst yer rst yer rst yer rst yer ple nes ( ale ) rst yer ses ( " ale " ) ond yer ses ( " ale " ) ple nes ( ale ) rst yer ses ( " ale " ) ond yer ses ( " ale " ) rns .
his der nce in the wel ion rns is cal oss the mit nly the ses hat are ost sed to ate on her ale or ale ech are own .
the ses hat are ost ive on ale ech ode the tal and ern hat is ent in the ams of ale ons .
on the her and , the ale - sed ses ave ore red rns , ich ain lly hes the ing ams .
123 ion to ech ion sks in his ion , we ate hat the dbn ure ons ned rom the led ech pus can be ful for ple ech ion sks , uch as ker ion , der ion , and one ion .
in ost of our nts , we wed the elf - ght ing ork ( 123 ) .
the ion for elf - ght ing mes rom ons ere we are ven nly a all unt of led ata and a rge unt of led 123 ore , one of our ain sts was to ate the ent ure ons ven a all ber of led ing les ( as ten med in elf - ght ing or emi - sed ing ngs ) .
ore lly , we ned the dbn on led mit ata ( as bed in ion 123 ) ; hen we sed the dbn res for ion on led ing / est 123 hat ere mly ted rom the mit pus . 123
123 ker ion
we ted the ess of the ned dbn ons for the ker ion ask .
the set of the mit pus hat we sed for ker ion has 123 ers and 123 ces ( ces ) per ker , ing in a tal of 123 ces .
we med 123 - way ion on his set .
for ach ber of ces per ker , we mly ted ing ces and ing ces and red the ion cy; we ort the lts ged ver 123 dom als . 123 to uct ing and est ata for the ion ask , we ted a ram rom ach nce in the mit pus .
we ote his ram ion as raw res .
we ted the rst and ond - yer dbn res ing the ram as put .
we lso ted fcc res , ely - sed ard res for ric ech ion sks .
as a ult , we ned ram / fcc / dbn ons for ach nce ith ple ( lly , ral red ) mes .
in our nts , we sed ple ary ics ( for ach nel ) uch as age , max , or ard ion ver all the mes .
we ted the res ing ard sed ers , uch as svm , gda , and knn .
the ces of ary ics and ers for the ers ere one ing oss - ion .
we ort the age ion acy ( ver 123 dom als ) ith a ing ber of ing les .
ble 123 ows the age ion acy for ach ure ion .
the lts how hat the rst and ond dbn ons oth orm ine res ( raw and fcc ) .
the ers are fcc and dbn res ith as any of the ame ors ( uch as ing and ion hms ) as ble .
her , to ake a air son een dbn res and fcc , we sed the est ing 123 ong ral ard ons for fcc .
our lts est hat out ial ing or ess -
3in elf - ght ing , the led ata and led ata ont eed to are the ame els or the ame
ere are two int mit ata ets .
we rew led ata rom the ger of the two for sed ure ing , and we rew led ata rom the her ata set to ate our ing and est set for the
3in the ase of one ion , we wed the ard col ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) her han elf - ght
ing ork to ate our thm in son to her ods .
ils : ere ere ome ons to is; for the ase of ght ing ces , we wed lds ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ; ore lly , we sed ght ing ces ( 123 sa ces , 123 si ces and rst 123 sx ces ) ; the two ing ces ere the ing 123 sx ces .
we sed oss ion for ing ers for ion , ept for the ase of 123 nce per ker , ere we sed a mly ted ion nce per ker .
3we sed dan lis ion ble at : ttp : / / osa . ee . bia . edu / lab /
ble 123 : est ion acy for ker ion ing ary ics raw fcc dbn 123 dbn 123 dbn 123 ing ces per ker
ble 123 : est ion acy for ker ion ing all mes
ing ces per ker fcc ( ( 123 ) s hod ) dbn fcc ( ( 123 ) ) + dbn
ing ( des the ary ics ich ere ded to uce the ber of res ) , the dbn res orm fcc res , lly in a ing ith a ery ted ber of led we her ted to ine if the dbn res can eve ive nce in son to her ore ted , ate - of - the - art ods .
for ach ure ion , we sed the ier hat ved the est nce .
ore lly , for the fcc fea - res we ted lds ( 123 ) s hod , 123 and for the dbn res we sed a svm sed ble hod . 123 as own in ble 123 , the dbn res tly med fcc fea - res hen the ber of ing les was all .
we lso ned oth ods by ing a ear ion of the two ier uts ( ore ing the nal ion ion rom ach thm ) . 123 the ing ned ier med the est , ing 23% acy for the ase of 123 ing ces per ker .
123 ker der ion
we lso ted the ame dbn res ich ere ned for the ker ion ask on the der ion ask .
we ort the ion acy for ous ies of ing les ( ces ) per der .
for ach ber of ing les , we mly led ing les and 123 ing es; we ort the est ion acy ged ver 123 als .
as own in ble 123 , oth the rst and ond dbn res med the ine res , lly hen the ber of ing les ere all .
the ond - yer dbn res tly med ter han the rst - yer dbn res .
his sts hat the ond - yer ion ned ore ant res hat are ant for ker der ion , ing the use of eep res .
123 one ion
lly , we ted our ned ion on one ion sks .
for his ent , we ted ach one ent as an ual ple and ted the ram ( raw ) and fcc res for ach one ent .
rly , we ted the rst - yer dbn nta - ons .
ing the ard col ( 123 ) , we ort the 123 way one ion acy on the est ata ( mit ore est set ) for ous ers of ing ces .
for ach ber of ing les , we ort the age ion acy ver 123 dom als .
the ary
ils : in ( 123 ) , fcc res ( ith ple mes ) ere ted for ach ce; hen a ian ure del was ned for ach ker ( ing ach ual fcc ame as a put ple to the gmm .
for the a ven est nce , the ion was ade by ing the gmm del hat had the est est log - ood .
3in ail , we ted ach gle - ame dbn res as an ual ple .
hen , we ned a lti - ass ear svm for ese ual mes .
for ing , we ted svm ion ore for ach ker , and hen ted ons rom all the mes .
all , the est ing ker was ted for the
the ant for the ear ion was xed oss all the ers of ing ces , and it was
ted ing oss ion .
ble 123 : est acy for der ion lem
ing ces per der
raw fcc dbn 123 dbn 123 dbn 123
ble 123 : est acy for one ion lem
raw fcc fcc ( ( 123 ) s hod ) dbn 123 dbn 123 ( ( 123 ) )
lts are own in ble 123
in his ent , the rst - yer dbn res med ter han ram res , but hey did not orm the fcc res .
ver , by ing fcc res and dbn res , we uld eve out 23% acy ent sis - tly ver all the ers of ing ces .
in the alm of one ion , in ich ant rch ort is ten ded to eve ven nts ell der a ent , his is a ant ent .
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) his sts hat the rst - yer dbn res ned hat ive res for one ion sks in an sed way .
in ast to the der ion ask , the ond - yer dbn res did not fer uch ent ver the rst - yer dbn res .
his ult is not ted ing the act hat the ime - ale of ost mes hly rre - nds to the ime - ale of the rst - yer dbn res .
123 ion to sic ion sks in his ion , we ess the ity of dbn res to ous sic ion sks .
ble 123 : est acy for 123 - way sic nre ion
raw fcc dbn 123 dbn 123 dbn 123
123 sic nre ion
for the ask of sic nre ion , we ned the rst and ond - yer dbn nta - ons on an led ion of sic ata . 123 rst , we ted the ram ( 123 ms dow ize ith 123 ms aps ) ion for ual ngs .
the ram was pca - ned and hen fed nto the dbn as put ata .
we ned 123 rst - yer ses ith a ter gth of 123 and a max - ing tio of 123
in ion , we ned 123 ond - yer ses ith a ter gth of 123 and a max - ing tio of 123
we ted the ned dbn ion for 123 - way nre ion sks .
the ing and est ngs for the ion sks ere mly led rom 123 res ( cal , ric , azz , pop , and ock ) and did not lap ith the led ata .
we mly led 123 - ond nts rom ach ong and ted ach ent as an ual ing or ing ple .
we ort the ion acy for ous ers of ing les .
for ach ber of ing les , we ged ver 123 dom als .
the lts are own in ble 123
in his ask , the rst - yer dbn res med the est all .
ble rom ttp : / / mir . net / est . tml .
123 sic ist ion ore , we ted her the dbn res are ful in ing ual sts . 123 ing the ame ure as in ion 123 , we ned the rst and ond - yer dbn rep - ons rom an led ion of cal sic ata .
ome ive ses are own in ure 123
hen we ted the ned dbn ion for 123 - way ist nti - ion sks .
the int ets of ing and est ngs for the ion sks ere mly led rom the ngs of our sts .
the led ata and the led ata did not ude the ame sts .
we mly led 123 - ond nts rom ach ong and ted ach ent as an ual ple .
we ort the ion acy for ous ies of ing ex - les .
for ach ber of ing les , we ged ver 123 dom als .
the lts are own in ble 123
the lts how hat oth the rst and ond - yer dbn res med ter han the ine res , and hat her ing the ond - yer res nly or ing the rst and the ond - yer res ded the est lts .
his sts hat the ond - yer dbn ion ght ave red hat ful , her - vel res han the rst - yer
ure 123 : ion of mly ted rst - yer dbn ses ned on cal sic ata .
ble 123 : est acy for 123 - way ist ion
raw fcc dbn 123 dbn 123 dbn 123
123 ion and ion ern ech ets are uch ger han the mit set .
ile the nge of ger ets ten ies in ing der sks , our ive in ing the mit ata was to ict the unt of led ata our thm had to arn rom .
it ins an ing lem to ply eep ing to ger ets and ore ing sks .
in his per , we ied nal eep ief rks to dio ata and ted on ous dio ion sks .
by ing a rge unt of led ata , our ned res ten led or sed fcc res , ich are and - red to dio ata .
ore , ven hen our res did not orm fcc , we uld eve her ion acy by ing oth .
lso , our lts how hat a gle dbn ure ion can eve igh nce on ple dio ion sks .
we ope hat our ach ill ire ore rch on lly ing eep ure ies for dio ata .
we ank hua gio , dan sky , yun - uan ung , dro eno , ger sse for ful ons .
we lso ank ous ers for eir ive nts .
his ork was ted in art by the nal nce ion der ant fri - 123 , and in art by the fce of val rch der uri 123
3in our nts , we und hat ist ion ask was ore ult han the ker ion
ask use the cal und rns can be hly ble ven for the ame ist .
