a la po of re - wo da is st in co - me re da sy .
mo st le me wo on wi at da re .
th , to ap th me , we ar fo to co ou da in a at fo , th lo mu of th re st pr in ou da .
th pa bu on th re wo on pr re mo - el ( pr ) , an de ho to le th fr da .
pr al th pr of an ob to de pr bo on ot pr - ti of th ob an on pr of re ob - je .
al pr ar si mo ex - pr th st mo , su as ba ne , we sh ho to ex we - kn st - ti me fo le ba ne to le th mo .
we de bo pa es an st le th au in of th de st in a mo .
mo , we sh ho th le pr ca ex st da re te fo ef le fr la da .
we pr ex re on bo re an sy re -
re mo ar th mo co re of st da .
en bu in , ma an sa da , me re , an sc da ar al st in re da .
in , re da ar a mu - bi do in .
re , th ha be gr - in in in ma mo so us of th hu am of da , in pa mi th da fo ce - ta pa an re .
by ex mo th re , we ca ga a de un of ou do - ma an ma di us re .
we ca al us ou mo to ll in un bu im in
th in of co sc , he un ,
je 12 , is
co sc de , st un , ga
bu 12 , st ca 12 - 12
ex , we ma be in in pr wh a pe is a po mo - la ba on th ba de , in tr , bu co an ar re of kn as ( je , 12 ) .
in an ca , we ma be in in cl we pa as be to a st - de , a fa me , a pr , et . , us at of th we pa an of re pa ( cr et al . , 12 ) .
un , fe in le al ar ca - bl of ha da in it re fo .
mo ar re to de wi a at se of in , ea wi it ow se - ra at .
to us th me , on ty at th re da , re it ri st .
th pr - ce , ho , lo in wh mi be cr in un th da .
co , fo ex , th pr of pr th va of an at of a ce en , e . g . , wh a pe is a mo - la .
th at wi be co wi ot at of th en , as we as wi at of re en , e . g . , of na tr - ti co by th pe , of ot pe in in th tr , of ot tr co by th pe , et .
in or to at th pr , we wo ne to de in ad on a xe se of at th th le - in al ca us in th ta .
th , we wa a le al th ca de wi mu en an th pr - er , an ca re co ab an en ch - is ba on th pr of th en to wh it is re - la .
un no , in lo pr ( il ) ( la an dz , 12 ) ha be th pr le fr - wo wi th ca .
il al le lo ho ru fo de wh so rs - or pr ho .
wh il is an ex so in ma se , it ma be in in ot .
th ma li is th de - is na of th ru di .
in ma do , su as th ex ab , we en in co th ar fa fr be de .
ou go in th pa is to le mo re pr - ti mo , th re st co bo be th pr of an en an be th pr of re - la en .
su a mo ca th be us fo re ab an en us th en ri st of kn en by th re re .
th st po fo ou wo is th st re - ti of pr mo , as ex in ba ne - wo ( bn ) .
a bn al us to pr a co re -
re of a co pr di ov so xe se of at or ra va .
th re - ti ex th lo of in th is pr in ma do .
we bu on tw re de in th el of ba ne .
th rs is th de un of th st le pr in su mo ( he - ma , 12 he et al . , 12 ) an th ro of st - tu in pr an ap bi fo th le ta .
th se is th re de of re th ex th at - ba bn re to in a mu ri re st ( ko an pf , 12 ng an ha , 12 po , 12 ) .
in th pa , we co th tw ad .
in , on of ou ke co is to sh th ma of th te - ni of ba ne le ca be ex to th ta of le th mo co mo .
th co - ti ge ( ko an pf , 12 ) s pr wo on th to .
we st by de th se of pr - bi re mo .
we th ex th pr of pa es an st se fo th cl of mo .
we de wi so cr te is th di - ti th pr of le re pr mo - el fr th of le ba ne .
we pr a fo of th li fu ap to th se - ti , an sh ho it in wi th st as of bn le .
th se ov co de st - tu is si mo co th in th ca of le - in bn st an we in th ne to an co to do th ef .
we th de ex - ta re on sy an re - wo da , an na di po ex an ap .
12 un fr 12 re mo we de ou re mo in ge te , cl re - la to th la of en - re mo .
th ge - er al ou fr to be ma in a va of sp re sy , in th pr lo pr of ( ng an ha , 12 po , 12 ) , an th pr fr sy of ( ko an pf , 12 ) .
ou le re ap to al of th fr .
ea re
an a se of re
th vo of a re mo co of a se of ta on va in so xe do is ty .
th vo
en ty is as wi a se of at de a sc fo ou re mo .
co a si ge mo of th in of a si ge th de a pe bl ty .
ea pe - so ha tw co of th ch co th ge , on in fr he mo , an on in fr he fa - th .
th is al a po co te th at to re th pe bl ty .
ou sc co tw cl pe an bl - te , an th re fa , mo , an te - of .
at of pe ar na , ge , p - ch ( th ch in fr th fa ) , m - ch ( in fr th mo ) .
th at
fo ea en ty
fo ea en
of a sc de a se of en , th in ha an as at - .
fo ea re
; it va in
we ar in in de a pr mo ov in of a re sc .
ho , so at , su as a na or so se nu , ar fu de - mi .
we la su at as xe .
we as th th ar kn in an in of th sc .
th ot at ar ca pr .
a sk st a re sc is a pa sp of an in of th sc .
it sp th se of ob cl , th va of th xe at of th ob , an th re th ho be th ob .
ho , it le th va of pr at un .
a co - ex th sk by al sp th va of th pr at .
of th sk st
on na de wh wi tu ou to be us is th is an re , we no of a sl ch .
if - th ar to ob a , wh we ca th vi as a sl , we le .
fo an ho .
( in re al no .
we ca co sl to fo lo sl ch , de by co of bi re .
s in th ch mu be ap ty . ) ( ea of th
. ) ob in th se ar ca
de al th el
of bl - te ar se - nu , da , co , an
12 pr re mo we no pr to th de of pr re mo ( pr ) .
th ba go he is to mo ou un - ta ab th va of th no - xe , or pr , at - tr of th ob in ou do of di .
in ot wo , gi a sk st , we wa to de a pr - bi di ov al co of th sk .
ou pr mo co of tw co : th , an th pa as - qu de st , .
th de st is de by so wi it , as wi ea at th co to fo pa th wi be in in di wa fo di ob in .
in , th pa ar at th ar di in on
a se of pa pa
we di be tw ty of fo pa
th at
wi de pr on
ca de on an pr at
pe fo in ob : fo an ob ca al de on at of re ob de fo an in ob
th fo de in a co de - is a sl ch .
to un th se of th fo , re th .
ex in ca wh th sl ch is gu to be si - va , we mu sp th pr de of da th gi us pr th ri to to ad
se th se of ob th ar w - re of
th no of ag fr
fi 12 : th pr st fo a si ge do .
fi at ar sh in re fo an pr at ar sh in it .
do li in re be en an so ar in pr de -
th is i . e . , wi de pr on so ag - gr pr of th mu .
th ar ma na an us no of ag : th mo of th se ( mo fr - qu oc va ) ; me va of th se ( if va ar nu ) ; me , ma , or mi ( if va ar or ) ; ca of th se et .
mo fo , ou la al a no of an ag - ta a mu of va of so gr ty , an re a su of it .
th ty of th ag ca be th sa as th of it ar .
ho , we al ot ty as we , e . g . , an ag th re th si of th mu .
; th se is th fo an
re to ou ge ex , co th at re .
si th re of a bl te de on wh it wa co , it ha bl - te th re al de on th ge - as a pa .
ne ma of th pe te .
si - va , we ad bl - te p - ch as pa .
fi 12 sh th st of a si pr fo th do .
to ha as a pa
wi de on th va of in th ob wa .
we as
mo pr , le
, we ca de gi a se of pa pa a lo pr mo fo a co pr di ( cp ) th sp be th se of pa -
a si at in th sa re or an ag of a se in so gr re ha a se of va
, th cp sp ty .
fo ea tu of va .
th pa in
al of th cp co
re th ea of th pa
gi a sk st fo ou sc , we wa to us th lo pr mo to de a pr di - bu ov co of th sk .
fi , no th th sk de th se of ob in ou mo .
we as - ci a ra va wi ea pr at .
th sk al de th re
of ea ob
be ob , an th th se of w - re as wi ev ob fo ea re ch w
al no th by as th th re be ob ar al - wa sp by , we ar di un ov th re st of th mo .
to de a co pr mo ov th sk - to , we mu en th ou pr de ar ac , so th a ra va do no de , di or in , on it ow va .
co th pa of an , we de an is a pa of
we sa th a , we de an ed th di gr de by ac .
in th ca , we ca de a co pr mo ov co in
is ac re to a sk ov th va
is a pa of
" ci zs (
pr 12 : if a di ov co
is ac re to
, th ( 12 ) de
we br sk a pr of th pr , by sh ho to co a bn ov th pr at of a .
th co is re of th kn - ba mo co ap ( we et al . , 12 ) .
he , ho , th co is me a th - ex ou le al ne co th ne .
in th ne th is a no fo ea va - an fo ag qu re by pa .
th pa of th ag ra va ar al of th at - tr th pa in th ag , ac to th .
th cp of ra va th re sp by co to pr at ar si th cp de - , an th cp of ra va th co - sp to ag no ca th de fu of th pa ag op .
it is ea to ve th if th pr de ar ac , th so is th in ba ne .
th co al su on wa of an qu ab a re mo .
we ca co th co ba ne an us st to fo an qu ab it .
al fo ea sk , we ca co a pr in a ba ne , a pr ex mu mo in th th re bn .
a bn de a pr di ov a xe se of at .
a pr sp a di ov an sk in di sk , th se ( an nu - be ) of en in th do wi va , as wi th re be th en .
in a wa , pr ar to bn as a se of ru in rs - or lo is to a se of ru in pr lo : a ru su as
in a po in se of gr
12 pa es we no mo to th ta of le pr .
we be wi le th pa fo a pr wh th de
st is kn .
in ot wo , we ar gi th st th de th se of pa fo ea at , an ou ta is to le th pa th de th cp fo th st .
ou le is ba on a pa tr se , wh we wi ta to be a co in th ta is re st , it is of in in an of it .
in ad , it is a cr co in th st le al de in th ne se .
th ke in in pa es is th li fu , th pr of th da gi th mo .
th fu ca th re of th pr di to ch in th pa .
as us , th li of a pa se is de to be th pr of th da gi as us , we
ty wo wi th lo of th fu :
" ci zs (
th ke in is th th eq is ve si to th lo - li of da gi a ba ne ( he - in fa , it is th li fu of th ba ne in by th st gi th sk - to .
th ma di fr st ba ne pa le is th pa fo di no in th ne ar fo to be id .
th , we ca us th we - un th of le fr ba ne .
co th ta of pe ma li pa - et es .
he , ou go is to nd th pa se - .
th es is si by th de - co of lo - li fu in a su of te co to th va at of th di cl .
ea of th te in th sq br in ( 12 ) ca be ma in of th re .
he , ma li - ho es re to in ma pr - le , on fo ea cp .
th ma th li (
fo mu cp , ma li es ca be do vi su st wh in th ca ar ju th th at - th co c
an it pa ca jo ta .
pr 12 : as mu cp , th ma
li pa se
& of th di va
as a co of th pr , pa le in pr is re to co su st .
we ne to co on ve of su st fo ea cp .
su co ca be do in a st ma us st - da da qu .
no th th pr sh th le pa in pr is ve si to le pa in ba ne - wo .
in fa , we mi vi th as le pa fo th bn th th pr in gi th sk .
ho , as
di ab , th le pa ca th be us fo re ab ot sk , wh in a co
in ma ca , ma li pa es is no ro , as it ov th tr da .
th ba ap - pr us a pr di ov th pa to sm th ir in th tr da , an is th si - ni mo ro .
as we wi se in se 12 , th ba fr al gi us a go me fo ev - in th qu of di ca st .
du to sp li , we on br de th al ap .
ro sp , th ba ap in a pr ov th un pa , an pe ba co , us th da as ev , to co a po - ri di ov th pa .
to ap th id in ou se , re th th pr pa of a se of in pr di co di of th fo .
fo th wo on ba ap fo le - in ba ne ( he , 12 ) , we ma tw as - su .
fi , we as pa in : th pr ov th pa ar in .
se , we as th th pr ov is a di di .
br , a di pr fo is sp by a se
a mu di of a va ! is di if ( ' k ( )
fo a pa pr sa th tw as , th po al ha th fo .
th is , it is a pr of in - pe di di ov th pa wh ca be co ea .
pr 12 : if is a co as , an th pr sa pa in an di wi hy -
th pa of ( fo mo de se ( de , 12 ) . )
a di on
fo th di
is a pr of di di wi hy
& , th th po
on we ha up th po , ho do we ev th pr of ne da ? in th ca of bn le , we as th in ar ii , wh im th th ar in - de gi th va of th pa .
th , to ev - at a ne in , we on ne th po ov th pa - et .
th pr of th ne in is th th pr - bi gi ev po pa va , we by th po pr ov th va .
in th ca of bn , th te ca be re si as th in pr - it ac to th ex va of th pa ( i . e . , th me of th po di fo ea pa ) .
th su - ge th we mi us th ex pa fo ev - in ne da .
in , th fo fo th ex pa is an to th on fo bn : pr 12 : as mu cp , pr in - de , an di pr , wi hy
" , we ha th :
un , th ex pa ar no th pr ba so fo co pr of ne da .
th ar tw po co .
al in th da .
in th ca , th in
of so pe - al ch ou pr ab th .
we th ca si us ou ol po -
th rs pr is th , in ou se , th as of ii da is of vi .
sp , a ne in mi no be co in of ol on gi th pa - et .
co th ge do , an as th ou ne da in in ab th mo of th ne ob te ab th pa to re ab th ne in .
th pr do no oc if th ne da is no re to th tr da , th is , wh th ne da is es a di da wi th sa sc .
mo in , th pr al di wh at of ne ob ar no pa of an at in th tr se .
in th ge - ne ex , th me th we ca in ne pe in ou da , as lo as th ar no an of pe al - re in th da .
th se pr in th fo ju fo us ex pa va .
th ar de on th fa th th pr of a ne in is li in th va of ea pa .
th is , ea pa is us at mo on .
th as is vi wh we co th pr of a co da in mu in - st fr th sa cl .
in th ca , ou in of th pr of th ne da gi th pa ca no lo be re to co th pr re to th ex - pe pa va .
th co ex is ca th ma li of th ( ne ) da we us it in se 12 fo sc st .
fo no , we no th if th po is sh pe ( i . e . , we ha se ma tr in ) , we ca ap th te by us th ex pa - te of pr 12 , as we co fo a si in .
in pr , we wi of us th ex pa as ou
12 st se we no mo to th mo ch pr of le a de st au , as op to ha it gi by th us .
th ar th im is th ne to be ad .
we mu de wh de st - tu ar le we ne to ev th go of di - en ca st an we ne to de an ef se pr th nd a go st .
12 le st wh we co di de st , it is im - po to be su th th de st re in co pr mo .
to gu th pr , we se fr pr 12 th th sk .
of co , we ca ea ve fo be ac re to a gi ca st th it is ac re to th of ou tr da .
ho , we al wa to gu th it wi be ac re to ot da th we ma en in ou do .
ho do we gu ac fo an ar da ? a si ap is to
if ei ( a )
is a pa of
en th de am at re so or ( i . e . , ar st ) .
mo pr , we sa th is a pa of , or ( b ) an th w - re .
we th re th ar of cl pe on on at th pr it in th or .
wh th si ap cl en ac , it is to li to co ma im ca .
co - si ag ou ge mo .
of a pe de on th ge of he pa th , we ha pe p - ch de di on p - ch , wh cl vi th re - me of ou si ap .
in th mo , th ap - en cy at th at le is re at th le of in ob , as a pe ca be hi / he ow an - ce .
th is , th re of ac re on so pr kn th we ha ab th do .
to al ou le al to de wi de mo su as th we mu al th us to gi ou al pr kn .
we al th us to as th ce sl
gu th th is a pa or sa th w
- re fo so is gu ac if ea of it co
i ar gu ac i . e . , we ar
su th if
is gu ac .
is a pa of
wh is gr if w
we us th pr kn de th le of ce - ta de mo .
we st by bu a gr th de th di de be th at .
in th gr , we ha a ye ed , we ha an is gu ac an re ot .
( no th th mi be se ed , of di co , be tw at ) .
th in is th de al gr ed re ob th ar or - de by an ac or .
th th ed by th or co wi in - ob de ( ye ed ) ca - no ca a cy de .
we mu ta ca wi ot de , fo wh we do no ha pr kn , as th mi fo a cy .
th in su th fo - in de : a ( co ) de gr is st if ev cy in th gr co at le on gr ed an no re ed .
is st , th fo an sk
pr 12 : if th co de gr of
di ov as to
fo wh th sl de a co pr
ar jo ac ,
th no of st ge th tw sp ca we co ab .
wh we do no ha an gu - te ac re , al th ed in th de gr ar co ei ye or re .
th , th gr is st - ed if an on if it is ac .
in th ge ex , al th re wo be in .
th , it su to ch th de wi ob ( ye ed ) ar ac .
pr 12 : st of a co gr ca be de - te in ti li in th nu of ed in th gr .
we om th de of th al fo la of sp , bu it re on st gr al .
fi , we no th it
is ea to ex th de of st fo si wh ou pr kn in se se of gu - te ac re , ea se wi it ow or ( e . g . , ob - je on a gr wi a no - so or an an ea - we or ) .
we si co th gr wi se co , an ch th ea cy co ed wi ex on co ot th ye , ex fo re .
12 ev di st no th we kn wh st ar le , we ne to de - ci ho to ev di st in or to pi on th ts th da we .
we ad ba mo se me to ou fr .
fo , we wa to co th po pr of a st gi an in - .
us ba ru we ha th .
th sc is co of tw ma pa : th pr pr of th st , an th pr of th da as th st .
th rs co is
, wh de a pr ov st .
we as th th ch of st is in - de of th sk , an th .
in th co of ba ne , we of us a si un pr ov po de st .
un , th as do no wo in ou se .
th pr is th th ma be in ma po st .
in ou ge - ne ex , a pe ge ca de on th ge - ty of hi pa , or of hi gr , or of hi gr - gr , et .
a si an na so pe
th se co is th ma li :
lo in sl ch , by ha
th su of th le of th ch w ap in
if we us a pa in di pr ( as ab , th in de in a pr of in ea of wh ha a si cl fo so .
( th is a si - pl ge of th id us in th ba sc fo pr 12 : if
is a co as , an
, is eq to
sa pa in an is di wi hy - , th ma
th ma li is a pr of si te , ea of wh co to a di .
mo , th te fo de on on th hy " su st c th ma li te is th do te in th pr of a st .
it ba th co of th
" an th
" , th ,
is th ga fu .
st wi it t to th da .
th ba ca be ma ex vi th as re of th ma li - ho to ex pe , su as th md sc ( se , e . g . , ( he , 12 ) ) .
fi , we no th th ba sc re th we as a pr ov pa va fo ea po st - tu .
si th ar ma ( pe in ma ) al - na st , th is a fo ta .
in th ca of ba ne , th is a cl of pr th ca be de - sc by a si ne ( he et al . , 12 ) .
th pr ha th ad pr of be st eq - le , th is , th gu th th ma li is th sa fo st th ar , in so st se , eq .
th no ha no ye be de fo ou ri st - tu , so we de th is to fu wo .
in , we si as th so si di pr ( e . g . , a un on ) ha be de fo ea at an pa se .
12 st se no th we ha a te fo de wh a st is le , an a sc fu th al us to ev di - fe st , we ne on pr a pr fo nd - in le hi - sc st .
fo ba ne , we kn th th ta is np - ha ( ch , 12 ) .
as pr le is at le as ha as bn le ( a bn is si a pr wi on cl an no re ) , we ca ho to nd an ef pr th al nd th hi sc st .
th , we mu re to he se .
th si - pl su al is gr hi - cl se , us ou sc as a me .
we ma ou cu ca st an it im it .
at ea it , we co a se of si lo tr to th st , sc al of th , an pi th on wi hi sc .
we de wi lo ma us ra re .
as in ba ne , th de pr of th sc ha si im on th co ef - ci of th se al .
fi , we de th sc in a su of lo sc co to in at an th pa .
no , if ou se al co - si a mo to ou cu st wh th pa se of a si at is di , on th co wi ch .
th , we ne of th sc as wi on re th pa co , le th ot un th re in ma co sa .
th ar tw pr wi th si ap .
fi , as di in th pr se , we ha in ma po st .
se , ev th at st of th se ar ex th pr of co su st re ex da op .
ev if we re th se of ca st at ea st of th se , we ca af to do al th da op ne - es to ev al of th .
we pr a he se al th ad bo th is .
at a hi le , th al pr , we ha a se of po pa .
we th do a st st se re to th sp of st in wh .
th ad of th pa of ea th ap is th we ca pr th vi co -
in ph .
at ea ph
ar in po
fo ea at
; mo of th ex co th jo an th ag re in th de of th pa ar pr in th vi .
th su - ci st fo an su of po pa ca ea be de fr th vi .
th ab co , to wi th de of th sc , al th st of th se ( sa , gr hi - cl ) to do ve ef .
th su of th ap de on th ch of th po pa .
cl , a wr in ch ca re to po st .
fo ( fr et al . , 12 ) , wh ex - am a si ap in th co of le ba ne , we pr an it ap th st wi so st ( po on wh ea at do no ha an pa ) , an se th se po th st .
we th ap th se pr an ge a ne , hi sc , st .
we ch ne po pa - en ba on th ne st an re , st wh no fu im is ma .
it re on to di th ch of po
di ph .
pe th si ap is to be by .
in su -
si ph , po wo co of al of pa as we as al at th ar re to vi sl ch .
of co , th ne at wo re
ag we si th is by pr po ag - gr fo ea at .
to be th se of at in
th sc ex th se of po pa at ea it .
ho , it us re in la se of po - ti pa .
th , we ac us a mo re al if th se to ad th on ad pa to po .
th ar se re wa va be pa of ev th ad va pr by ne pa .
so of th ar di in ( fr et al . , 12 ) in th co of le ba ne .
th re su th we sh ev a ne po pa by me - if we ad th in th ch of sc fo th fa of to it cu pa .
we th ch th hi sc of th , as we as th cu pa , to be th ne se of po pa .
th ap al us to si - ca re th si of th po pa se , an th of th re vi , wh be un to ca si de in th qu of th le mo .
12 im an ex re we im ou le al on to of th po - gr ob - re da ma sy .
al re - qu co we ob si th da se - ti qu , an ca to av pe th sa qu tw .
du th se pr , we cr te ma - te vi co to jo be di re - la , an th vi we th us fo co th
we te ou pr le al on tw do - ma , on re an on sy .
th tw do ha ve di ch .
th rs is a mo da th co th re : mo , ac an ap , wh re ac to mo in wh th pl
ob fr ht : / / ww - db . st . ed / pu / mo / do . ht
da co ab 12 mo an 12 ac .
wh th da ha a si st , it pr th ki of pr on of en wh de wi re da : mi va , la do fo at , an in - si us of va .
th fa th ou al wa ab to de wi th ki of re - wo pr is qu pr - in .
ou al le th mo sh in fi 12 ( a ) .
th mo is re , an cl to on th we wo co - si to be co .
it le th th ge of a mo de on it de an it lm pr ( co , bl & wh , te et . ) an th th de de on it lm pr .
it al le an in de co - bi al th re : th ro - ty pl by an ac in a mo de on th ge of th ac an th ge of
th se da , an ar ge da si to th ex in th pa , pr qu di ch - le .
fo on th , th re na of th do al ar co jo to be de .
in ad , th pr mo in th do is fa su .
ea pe ha th re at p - ch , m - ch , an bl al wi th sa do an al re so to th sa at of th pe mo an fa .
th go st is th mo us to ge th da th st of th mo wa sh ea - li in fi 12
we tr ou al on da of va - io si ra up to 12
a da se of si of a fa tr co pe , wi an av of 12 bl te pe pe .
we ev ou al on a te se of si 12 , 12
fi 12 ( b ) sh th lo - li of th te se fo th le mo .
in mo ca , ou al le a mo wi th co st , an sc we .
ho , in a sm mi of ca , th al go st in lo ma , le a mo wi in st th sc qu po .
th ca be se in th sc pl of fi 12 ( b ) wh sh th th me lo - li of th le mo is qu re , bu th ar a fe ou .
st te su as ra re ca be us to de wi lo ma .
12 di an co in th pa , we de a ne st le ta : le - in pr re mo fr da .
we ha sh th ma of th id fr ba ne le ca ov to th ne ta .
ho , we ha al sh th it al ra ma ne ch .
sc th id to la da is an im is .
we be th th ca be ac by a cl in wi th te of da sy , in in an qu op .
fu , th ha be a lo of re wo on ex in fr ma da se , in wo on nd fr oc co of va fo at .
we be th th id wi he si in th co of su st .
th ar al se im po ex to th wo .
pe th mo ob on is th tr of mi - in da an hi va .
we ca ex st te - ni ( su as ex ma fo mi da )
fi 12 : ( a ) th pr le fo th mo do , a re - wo da co ab 12 mo an 12 ac .
( b ) le cu sh th ge pe of pr le in th ge do .
th - ax sh th da si th - ax sh lo - li of a te se of si 12 , 12
fo ea sa si , we sh 12 in le ex .
th cu sh me lo - li of th mo as a fu of th sa si .
to th ta ( se ( ko an pf , 12 ) fo so pr - in wo on re mo . ) ho , th co of in on la da wi ma mi va ma th co of a na ap of su al pr .
cl , th do ca bo fo ne in al an fo ne le al th av re ca to in ov th ve la pr .
ev mo in - in is th is of au di of hi va .
th ar so pr an to th qu in th co of ba ne ( fr , 12 ) , in th co - te of il ( la an dz , 12 ) , an ve re in th co of si bi re ( ho et al . , 12 ) .
co th id an ex th to th mo co - pl fr is a si an in ch .
an di ex th cl of mo we co .
he , we as th th re st is sp be - fo th pr at va ar de .
a ri cl of pr ( e . g . , th of ( ko an pf , 12 ) ) wo al pr ov th st of th mo fo ex - am : un ov th se of ob in th mo , e . g . , th nu of ch a co ha , or ov th re be - tw ob , e . g . , wh is th bl th wa fo on a cr sc .
ul , we wo wa th te to he us au di in en an re - ti th ho in th wo .
ni fr wa su by a gr fr th mi sa tr .
li ge , da ko , an av pf - fe we su by on co n1 - 12 - c - 12 un - de da hp pr , by on gr n1 - 12 - 12 - 12 , by th ar un th mu pr in ap - pr to in sy , an by th ge of th sl fo an of th po fo .
