ma tr of hu po is a ha ye re - va pr .
in th pa , we de an ef lt al fo tr hu po at 12 - 12 fr pe se - on us a st of mo de im .
th ke id is to co an ac ge mo is ac in th se us pr gr - ic ha a di mo th fe da - dr ev ab bo pa lo .
in ea lt it , we ap a fo of lo mo - ba se th ex th na of th ki ch .
as fa mo - me an oc ca di th lo se , we ut a se of di tr pa cl to de bo pa .
we de a no al fo pr th no ev ab bo pa lo up th ki - ma ch us th un tr .
th re di of bo co al us to re th mo - ba se , wh in tu al ou sy to ro re fr te tr dr .
we pr ex ex re on 12 re - wo se us au gr - tr an fr a co - ci mo ca sy .
if mo ca te we to be co - ni , ch , an ap in na en , th a wh ra of ap wo be po , su as in hu - ma in , sm su , ch an , vi re an mo an .
it is li th ma su ap wi be ap on th te is av .
th on vi so to , th is , ma - ba hu - ma mo ca , ha so fa ma be us in th en - te in , la be th ne fo sp - pu ca an in ma or su re - in hi op co .
as a re , th ha be mu
in in th ar of ma mo ca , an su sy ar be mo po ( 12 ) .
in re ye , al ha be pr th ca - tu fu sk mo at ne re - ti fr ra ho - ev , th mo re on mu - vi ca sy an sp co re co th li th ap - pl .
le ex sy th us a na ba - li ca sy ha no ye re a si le of ma .
mo mo ap so fa ai at so - in si ve of th fu ar mo ca - tu pr , su as ge di , or ca of re mo fo ce pa of th bo .
ti - of - ig se ar a te th of ri se in ab a la pa of th sc an , at th sa ti , en a co , no - in sy se .
th se pr de de me at ev po in th sc at hi fr ra .
th ra da pr al ea se of th hu bo an ca al di po th wo ot ha si ap an th co mo mo sy .
ra se , in ge , le th to a fa ge mo ( as th ro li sh ) , be th ar no se to ch in li , sh - ow , an th va of th pr th ma it ne im to ge mo in im .
in th fu , th se ar li to be as ch as we ar to .
th , we ap th hu mo ca ta us ti - of - ig se .
de th ad of de se , ho , se ha pr ha to be de wi , in th hi di of th st - sp ( 12 de - of - fr in ou ca ) an th no , hi pe li fu .
we pr in th pa a pr lt fr - wo th em a hi ac ge mo wh is ac in th se us an ef gp im a di mo .
ou al - ri wa de sp fo fa op at vi fr ra , si na co re a lo - la ac - re cy .
th pr sy re -
qu 12 12 pe ca fr to es th jo an of a 12 de - of - fr hu mo .
ou pr co is a no al fo co di pa de wi lo hi - cl fo th ta .
ou se co is th de of a sm li fu an a me of im it on re av gr ha ( gp ) ef in or to ob ne re - ti pe - ma .
in ad to th , we co an ex se of re - wo te se wi an gr tr , wh ar pu op ( 12 ) fo fu be .
re wo
th au an of hu sh an mo fr se da ha be re co as mo - lu et al .
( 12 ) il in th su co mo th th 12 pa .
se le ba ap ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) at to di ma im st , si or fe co - pu fr th di to po .
wh th is an in - es ap in ge , it is no cl ye ho to sc it ro to th ge pr se in un en du to th hi di of th hu po sp .
re to ou ap , th li of re wo t we in th da - dr co of ou al - ri de in se .
si , se pa tr to de pa of th bo wh th as in a co - pl fo , te pi st .
al op on hi qu po cl ob fr la sc in - st of vi , ro et al .
( 12 ) ta a si ap th us di me to po th do of di va in a ba ne .
in th mu - vi vi se , si et al .
( 12 ) ap a si st , bu us no be pr fo th in me .
ou ap di in th we pe in in th co do an th we ar wo on te - po da wi a no se .
ou ap to bo pa de em in th wo is de in ( 12 ) .
mu wo ha al fo on sa - ba me ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) , in pa sa , wh up su of pa , an hi sa , wh st at th to of th ki ch an pr do - wa .
in ou ap , we ad th id of hi se al th ki ch , bu re ra sa - pl wi de sa be it is al in - cr ef th pr .
re th ha be se at to tr pe us a ti - of - ig ( to ) ca .
gr et al .
( 12 ) ap no - li le sq to ed ma , th ar as fr fr to fr .
kn et al .
( 12 ) us a st ca an a to ca to t a cy 12 bo mo to th da vi th it cl po ( ic ) al .
bo pa - pe fo on tr of th up bo on .
du to th
fi 12
le : th hu bo is mo by a ki ch an a 12 su me .
ri : th dy ba ne mo th po xt of th tr pe an th re ra me zt .
lo na , bo al ar su to lo tr wh th mo is to fa .
re , zh et al .
( 12 ) ha pr an al fo up - bo tr fr on to ca .
th al is ba on ha - en he fo de jo of th up bo an is op - mi fo up fr - fa po .
th al do no in an re co an op th lo op in fr th pr fr .
th re pr of tr us on or ma vi ca ha al re mu at .
th cl wo by br et al .
( 12 ) tr a pe fr a si ca us op ow to ob fr - to - fr co - re , wh ar us to ca mo de - ti , wh ar pr up th ki ch .
by as - su , th ap is li to mo pa to th im pl , an it is al su to lo tr .
ho , th ce id of pr in fr th im up th ki ch is on th we ex in ou al , al we us th un tr to ac hi qu li .
th is a gr tr in pa th us pr - gr gr ha ( gp ) to im co - pu vi al ( 12 ) .
th pa na of co - ta on a gp as we as th op fo op on im le us to be , th th ar an id pl fo co vi al , es wh re - ti pe is pa .
we ex gp to pe la nu of li ev ef .
pr mo
th ob is to tr an ar bo ov ti us a st of mo de im .
we rs de a pr mo fo th va of in in th se - ti an th de ho to ef pe in in se
we mo th bo as a co of 12 ri bo pa , wh ar co in sp ac to a tr - sh ki ch ( sk ) , se th le di in fi .
a ki ch is a di ac gr ( da )
wi we - de pa - ch re .
th su ge - om of th mo is re vi a cl tr me , wh de wi th un ki ch by me of a ve sk ap ( 12 ) .
we de - no th co of th bo by xt = ( x i wh ea i in a un de bo pa in th ch .
th tr xi ca be re in va - ou wa , su as us ho ma or in ve - to / qu fo .
in fr th ch of re - re , x i de th po an or of a sp bo pa re to it pa pa .
th ch is an to th wo at th pe x 12 t ( wh do no ha a pa in th ki tr ) .
in ou mo , we al th pe to fr ro an tr .
th re bo pa ar co to th th pa vi a ba jo , wh al th to ro in an di , bu no to tr .
we ob th ab or w i ( x ) of a bo pa i by mu th tr of it an in th ki ch , w i ( x ) = x 12 x pa ( i ) x i .
in or to de th mo li st at an ti , we mu de a pr mo .
th st at ti t is th po xt an it rs di - ti de vt .
th me is th ra sc zt .
we mo ou sy as a dy ba ne ( db ) , se th ri di - gr in fi .
12 , wh en th ma in as th xt an vt ar in of z1 , .
, zt gi xt an vt
th db re th sp of th co pr p ( vt ) , p ( xt , vt ) an th me - su mo p ( zt ) .
we ma th as th th ac in ou sy ar dr fr a ga di wi ze me
th , vt n ( vt , ) wi th co ma be di .
we no th si x is a li of re tr , th ve ar al de re .
th is , if k is th in of th kn , v k t en th ch in th an be th sh an th at fr t .
th co wa sp by ha fo bi - me pr an th kn vi fr ra , al it co ea be se by an au - to pr us th ma av hu mo
we de p ( xt , xt ) to be a de cp ( co pr di ) , th ap th tr - fo in vt to th in xt
fo , x i wi pr 12
t = v i
th me mo de th di on th me ra da gi th st of th sy .
th me - su ra sc is de by z = ( zk ) m k= wh zk gi th me de of th pi at co k .
an ex sc is sh in fi .
we as th co in -
12 th it is co in th tr li to as ra
ac ra th ra ve
fi 12
ou se mo fo in ra me ap - pr th mi of a ga ( me no ) an a un di ( ou an mi - as ) .
de of ea pi gi th st an sc ge m ,
p ( zt , m ) = y
t |x , m ) .
to ge th zk fo a sp bo co x an mo m , we tr th ve co to ea pa i by it co tr ma w i ( x ) .
we th ca a ra fr th fo po th pi k an ca th di to th rs su it hi , wh we de zk .
no , th th is ba a ra - tr op - er co pl in th co gr re
gi th id de va , we ca th ap a no mo fo th gi se .
no mo fo ti - of - ig se ha be he ex in th ro li - tu .
th st ap is to ex mo th di - fe ty of no th ar ca oc .
in pr , on ca en th ef , su as ga no of th se , th pr of a ma ra re , ou , an ot .
we ap su a cp us th fu - ti sh in fi .
le us de sm ( x ) = ( mi ( x , 12 ) ) 12 ( 12 12 mi ( x , 12 ) ) .
we de
p ( |z zk ) ex ( sm ( |z zk ) ) .
we ch th fu be it ap a ga mi wi a un di an it is a bu - in fu - ti in th gp sh la .
ou go is to de th mo li st xt an vt at ti t gi th ma as of th pr fr , th is , xt an vt
at ea fr , we fa th di , hi di op pr h xt , vt =
ar , vt lo p ( zt , vt ) +l p ( xt , vt xt , vt ) ,
fo wh we de an ef so in se
as a ce co of ou op pr , th pr de me mo p ( zt , vt ) is in du to it se to in mo m an to sl ch in th st x .
pa of th mo th vi - la th si in th me im wi be pe he .
fo in , sl tr an ob wi re - su in al pi at th ed ev an in de
va , wh wo be pe he .
th se mo pa ac fo th ov - se th th us of a he - ta di .
in th li , it ha fr be ob th th tr li is of il - su fo op , an su - ro li ar of us ( 12 ) .
we de a fu - ti th is mo ro to th mi - as th oc du op .
le us re th li l ( x ) in te of z ( x ) , th de im ob th ra - l ( x ) = pk lo p ( zk ( x ) ) = ca ap to x .
pk lo p ( zk ( x ) ) .
we co an al sm
ls ( x ) = x
lo p ( zk ( x ) ) + ( j , k )
pa by a pe fu .
he , ( j , k ) re - re a co fo ch a di pi in th th on pr by ra ca .
in ou ca we de ( j , k ) = , if j is no an im pi ne of k , ( j , k ) = 12 , if j = k an se ( j , k ) to a co in al ot ca .
we ch th co 12 ac to on th fo re : gi ou se el of vi , th su wi be ap tw me aw in or to t co .
at th di , mo to a ne pi re in a eu di of a ap 12 me pe to th di th ca is fa .
ne th mi , th lo li of th no mo is ap qu .
ca be ch to sm th li fu th th co re ac .
th , th to pe fu ap eu di fo cl ma .
th se de th pr st sp an me mo .
in in th mo is no - tr du to th hi - di na of th sp of th ki - ma co sp x an th as ve sp v .
th is pa ch fo ou re - ti tr ob , wh ex in is in .
we no de ho to pe ef ma in - en at ea fr .
we at th pr in tw wa : ( 12 ) a mo - ba co lo op th li - li fu by hi - cl an ( 12 ) , a da - dr pa pr th me z to re pa of th lt st wh po .
fo th la co , we de an ap in pr te ev pr - ti to ge li st wh ar th us to in th mo - ba al .
mo ( ci : 12 ) ba hi cl se ( hc )
to lo op th li , we ap a co - to - ne hi - cl pr .
we st fr th ba of
t |v i
ki ch wh in th la bo pa , an pr to th li .
fo a si di i of th st sp , we sa a gr of va ab th me of t1 ) .
fo ea sa of vt , we de ge th st xt fr xt
th li of th st is ev , an th be on of th gr ch .
th pr ca th po be ap to a sm in - va ab th va ch at th co le .
fo ex , to op th x ax of th pe , we mi sa va be - 12 to 12 at in of 12 me .
th be - t of su a pr is th it is in pa .
we ca se a ba of ca to th gp , wh ev - at al of th an re th co .
we ch a de - mi sa st ov st sa be it al mo pr an th in th sp of li ev .
ev pr ( ep )
a va of ef ca ca th mo - ba se to fa .
on pr is th fa mo ca si mo - ti bl .
ad , oc ca ca th es of th st of hi pa to dr .
ad , th li fu ha ri th ar di to na .
we th - fo pr a da - dr pr th id pr - in lo fo bo pa in or to nd li po .
th th st in th pr ar ( i ) to id po - bl bo pa lo fr th cu ra im , ( ii ) to up th bo co x gi po co - de be me ve an pa de an ( ii ) to de th be su of su co .
12 . 12 bo pa de
we co th ve bo pa he , le ha , ri ha , le fo an ri fo .
th 12 wo lo of th pa ac to th cu co x of th bo ar de as pi , i ( 12 , .
no th we re th pa by si ve on th su me of th bo , su th al pi ar de fu of x .
th da - dr de of bo pa we de in th fo de as pj , j ( 12 , .
, j ) , wh j n ca be an ar nu de on th pa de .
ac bo pa as we as th de ha a cl as ci , cj to ( he , ha , f oo ) .
we ob th bo pa de us th al de in ( 12 ) .
th de ar pr by a tw in th rs st ex po on th re su me ar de fr th ra me - su zt to fo a se of di in po .
di - cr tr cl ar ap to pa ce - te on th po to de to wh bo pa cl th be to .
if th cl is su co , th fe - tu is re as a de ( se ( 12 ) fo de ) .
12 . 12 pr in ki
we no de a pr mo , vi in fi .
12 , co of th va vt , xt , vt , xt an pj .
as - su a co be bo pa i an de j , we ap th ob mo
pj n ( pi ( x ) , o ) .
we wo no li to ca a ma es of xt an vt co on xt an pj .
th is di be th in va pi is a he no - li fu of x .
in or to co pi ( x ) we mu de th wo co w ( x ) , wh in th ab or of ea bo pa .
th we tr pi fr it lo in th me to it na lo in th wo .
to ta th pr , we ob th xt is a de - is fu of vt an xt
th , we ca re pi as a no - li fu pi ( vt , xt , vt ) .
ou ap wi be to li th fu pi .
be th di p ( vt vt ) is a li ga , li pi re in a li ga ne ap .
ma in on th mo is ea , so we ca de an es of ar ( vt xt , vt , pj ) .
we li ab th es - ma an re th pr un co .
th ar ma wa to li pi .
we ap th un - sc tr wh is us in th un ka lt in a si si .
th ba ap is to co - pu si po fr th pr di on vt , ap th no - li fu to th , an th ap th re wi a li ga .
we om th ma de , bu it ca be sh th th me pr an es of th di th is mo ac th li - ea th ca an an ja .
to su , gi a kn co be a po in th im an a po in th me , we ca pe ap ma in us th al ju de - sc .
th al is re to ex me fo in - ve ki us no - li le sq , ex th it pe li us th un tr , an it ad pr di on th va .
fi 12
dy mo fo th in of bo pa de -
is sp , an if no , wh sp bo pa it is as - ci wi , co by th bo pa cl of th de - ti .
th re in a la nu of po co - ti .
co ea su co , wh re pe hi - cl , wo be fa to ti co fo a re - ti sy .
we th pr de th ar ne an pa lo in x be .
th pe un he is ba on th ob th di de - te ar ne mo wh th hi cl ap ha lo tr .
wh su a lo ha oc , it is ho th th di al wi de a pa fa fr th lo of an pa in x be .
wh th hi cl al - go is do we , th pa de wi be ne th lo in x be an th ca be ig .
we pr de ne an pa in x be be th pa cl ca of co cl .
th ne st is to ex th de in a se of co co .
a ca - di co ( ( pi , pj ) ) is cr fo ea bo pa to al de wi a ma cl , th is ci = cj .
fo in , a co is cr fo th ri ha to al ha de .
at th po , we ha a co li of po co - sp fr wh we mu ch a su .
we ap - pr th pr in a gr fa .
we it th ea po co , an ap ev pr - ga , in fr x be to nd a ne po mo
up x be by lo hi - cl on th li
ex pa de fr zt
12 . 12 da as an in
pr hy th ar al ex
we no gi th en al fo de xt fr xt an zt .
in th se , we on as we ar gi a se of pa de an th es bo pa cl , ( pj , cj ) .
th al be wi an in gu x be se to xt , wh is re im by in
th al be by up x be wi th es fr pr by hi - cl as de in se .
pa de ar th ex fr th me zt .
in th , we ha to de fo ea de wh it
pr se of co ( ( pi , pj ) ) by ex hy -
lo i = 12 to n
( a ) le x be th po mo of ev pr
in fr x be co on ci
( b ) up x by lo hi - cl on li ( c ) if li of x > x be , se x be to xc
fi 12
tr al .
hc + ep
ex pr ( ep ) hi cl ( hc ) ou ap ( hc )
av er of gr tr re er re of ou ap ( hc ) w . r . t
te se id
fi 12
tr re on re - wo te se , so fr mo co ( le ) to le co ( ri ) .
x wh in th cu co on .
ep th al us to ma a bi ju in th st sp .
we th re lo hi - cl fr x to re it .
if th na li is be th x be , x be is re wi th po fo .
wh th oc , th ca co - de is co to be ac .
th on ef of th on th su it of th al is th it up of x be .
th co is no in du su st of ep , so th su , po - bl be , co ca ov ea on .
we ha ob th th al su re in - re co be th st re fr th in wi be pe by th li fu .
gp - ac im
se te de en th ef ev of mo th 12 12 ca pe se on th gp .
th ma co ar to ma pa an to mi up an do la am of da .
th me is in si us qu ed de an up to th gp al wi th pa as fo ea ve .
we us a cu sk ve - te sh th al us to si up th tr - ti ma fo th en co in or to re th en bo , wi tr an ot da .
an - ot sh ca th me ra le ( si th z - bu ha li pr ) an im th ac co fu as de ab .
be is op - ti to th gp in a ce la , we pr a ba of ca si .
we re a gr of ca ti on a si te .
th te is th co ag th ob in pa fo ea ti .
by en th th di of th gr ar a po of tw , we ca ex th bu - in fu of th gp to ge a mi - ma te .
a mi - ma te is on wh co ve of it at pr lo re , ea ca by av pi at hi
re .
by re a pa mi - ma le , we ca di re ou th av co of ea ca , on pe pi , wh is th mi am of da we ca tr ba to th cp .
th de al wa fu im in c+ an ev on re se .
th go of th ex - me ev is to sh th
ou pr sy is ab to es th po an co of a hu ov ti us on a st of de im ,
pr ca us ep on de bo pa si im pe ov ju do lo -
th sm en fu ( eq .
12 ) ou th
ty us pi - wi en fu , an
th sy ru cl to re - ti at 12 fr pe se -
to th en , we ha cr a so te da se , th al qu an of th tr pe - fo .
th da se , wh is av op as a be al wi ou re ( 12 ) , co of 12 re - wo de - im se of va co ra fr sh se wi si - li mo to lo se in fa ki , sw , se - oc an fu - bo ro .
ou de of co - pl , th su , in wi th le of th se , am of oc , sp of mo , nu of bo pa mo si , an ro ab th ve ax .
th de im st is co us a sw sr ti - of - fl ca , wh wa se to re fu - fr in in im an de at 12 fp an a re of 12 12 pi , wh we su - sa to 12 12 pi in or to ta ad of th gp mo ef .
in ad to th st of de im -
ab tr er
av er , hc av er , hc ma er , hc ma er , hc
fi 12
a ty si in wh da - dr ev is cr fo tr su ( ex fr se .
le : th ex fr fr th te se .
mo - ba se ( to ro ) lo tr of th te sw , si th ar wa oc .
ou co tr th in bo - up ev ab bo pa ( bo ro ) is ab to re th fa mo ar .
th ri di sh th sa si in te of ac tr er ( se te ) .
ag , we re th lo of 12 ma at to th su bo us a co ac ma mo ca sy .
th me ma lo se as th gr tr in ou er me .
co , we co - si th fo ev me
ma = ma || mi ,
wh m is th nu of vi mo - ca ma , mi ar th tr 12 lo an mi ar th co 12 lo on th es su me of th tr pe .
th vi in , we fo th in ma er || mi of 12 or lo ca be in - pr as pe tr ma , si th co to th ap ac of th re gr tr da .
on th ot ha , ma er of 12 or la ca be in as tr fa .
in or to ev th ef of th co of mo - ba an da - dr ap , we sh th re of tw al in ad to ou pr al - ri on th ex da .
th al la ep co of ou ov al wi lo hi - cl
re .
it si pr mo de by ep , an ke th on wi hi li .
th al la - be hc co of ju th mo - ba hi - cl al - go al .
we no th th me mo fo al al - ri wa pr se - au us a cy la sc .
th jo lo we de us th sc al ( 12 ) .
fi 12 sh nu re on ou da se fo al th al .
in th to pa , we sh th er of al al .
th re sh th th da - dr me in is ( ep ) pe fa wo th th ot tw ap - pr .
be of th hi er of th da - dr al - go al , in th re pl we on co th mo - ba al an th co al .
in th bo pa , we vi th di in er be th co ap ( hc ) an th mo - ba ap - pr ( hc ) .
in al th se , th co ap pe be or eq we .
it is in to no th on th ha se ( le si ) , th di in pe is mo pr .
to an th in mo de , we co a ch ex fr se 12 fa , pa oc te -
ni sw as vi in th le pa in fi .
th ri pa in th gu sh th tr of th er - me co - pa th mo - ba an co al on th ex - ce .
in th be , th sw ar be co - pl oc , fo by mo sw fo .
th ma me ( ma er in th di ) re th on th hi - cl tr lo tr , it ne re .
ou co ap is ab to ag nd th mo an co - ti .
th le pa in fi . 12 il th us th tr fr fr th se .
th to ro il th th mo - ba al co lo th ar , wh ou al is ab to nd th ar af an oc - cl an ca th tr ed of th te se .
th gu al il th gr li fr th de bo pa th as th th al co , an ho th en it to us ev pr to pu it ba on tr .
fi , we al co th ef of li sm on th pe of th al .
we fo th th sm li im th pe in te of av er ac al se an fr by ab 12 pe fo th mo ba al an 12 pe - ce fo th co al .
th fa th it he th co ap mo ma be a re of th fa th th re is no al cl en to re tr wi th no - sm li fu .
in te of ef , bo al ar cl , th th hi - cl ap is mo ef .
th mo - ba al ra at ab 12 fr pe se , wh th co al ra at 12 fr pe se .
co an fu wo
th am go of ac re - ti tr of hu - ma an ot ar bo is on th ha en re fo ma ye du to th la nu of us - fu ap .
wi th hy , gp - ac lt ap in in th pa , we be to ha ma a la st fo , bu th re mo ch to ov .
so ex in cl sc , tr - in mo th on pe at a ti , im th sp fu - th , an fu au mo in .
mo , it wo be in to in tr im mo - it su as co ca or to ap th de te - no to st vi se .
ac .
th wo wa su by ns ( is 12 ) , mu ( n1 ) , an th bo co .
