th pa ad th pr of tr an di co sy wi mi of di an co va .
th pr is a di on , pa wh th sy dy ar no , no al as of th sy ar di ob , an th se ar su to no .
in th pa , we pr a ne ap to th ta , ba on th fr of hy dy ba ne ( db ) .
th mo co bo co va - ab re th st of th sy an di va - ab re di ch su as fa th ca mo a va of fa , in bu fa , me er , an gr dr .
we pr a no al fo tr in hy db , th de wi th ch po by th di pr .
we de ho th re al ca be us to de fa in a co sy .
th co an so of th cu ge - ti of in pr , an th gr ne fo au - to ag th co ph sy , mo th ne fo ro on mo an di of co hy sy ( e . g . , ( is 12 ) an ( mc et al .
12 ) ) .
we wa to mo th st of th sy , re de ab be , an di th fa .
se - er ap ha be us fo de wi th pr - le , bu ea ha it li .
th tr mo - ba sc fo di an co su fr co - pu in an nu co pr - le .
th qu re me th do th wo in th ai co mi so of th pr - le ho , th la of pr in th re , an th am in by th re fr ca le th to pe po wh ap to co sy wi co dy ( ha , co , & de kl ( ed . ) 12 ) .
in th pa , we pr a di ap to th pr - le , wh we mo a co hy sy as a dy ba ne ( db ) .
th mo im de a pr di ov pr tr of th sy - te st ov ti .
in th se , it is si to th ve su ka lt ( ka 12 ) .
fo sy wi li dy an ga no , th ka lt pr - vi an ex me fo tr sy st .
un - na , re - li sy ar ri wi no , ma of
co c 12 , am as fo ar in - ge ( ww . aa . or ) .
al ri re .
wh ar ex as di fa mo th ca pr - du di ju in sy be .
hy db ac a mu gr ra of pr , in no dy an di fa mo th in sy ev .
th ca di re th no as - ci wi th sy ev an me , as we as th pr of fa an th ef .
we rs sh th ma in as of di mo ca be re in th db fr .
in pa - ti , we sh th th al a na en of th re of hi - or sy dy us in th te ca gr ( tc ) fr of mo an bi ( 12 ) .
in fa , a tc ca be us to pr th sk fo an ap db mo .
we al sh th ma in ty of fa ca be mo na in th db , in bu fa , pa dr , an me -
th ar se ad to th us of ge pr - bi mo , su as db , fo fa de an di - no .
a db is co mo of th sy .
us th mo , th st of th sy , in it fa mo , is tr by ma a pr di ov po - bl sy st gi al of th me so fa .
th be st di is an ex re of ou be po be gi al of th av ev .
cl wi it th li of di ty of fa , as we as a di ov th re sy pa .
in pr , ma of th is th ha ch tr - ti ap to di ra po fa , ha of mu si fa , an ro to pa dr ca be ad wi a pr
of co , th in ta th is re fo ma - ta th be st is a di on .
un th ca of a si ka lt , tr su sy is ge in - tr si th nu of mo of th sy gr ex ov ti .
we pr a no al th ta th in us a co of se di - fe te .
we sh th th al su in tr a ve di sc on a fa la sy ( on in ve ta ) .
we be th ou ap wi sc we to su mo co sy .
di of hy sy to gr ou di , we wi fo on th di ta fo a cl of pr ty of ch ma -
fi 12 : th tw - ta sy .
f in ow p in pr r in re .
tu pr , wh in th tr of ma ( mo ui ) in an be ta .
su do ar we - re us bo gr fo ( ro & ka 12 ) , wh th dy be of th sy is de by ui pr an ui ow - ra .
co , fo ex , a si tw - ta mo , sh in fi 12 ( a ) .
th mo re a sy wi tw ta th ca ho ui , an in pi in ta 12 , tw ou pi , an a co - ne pi be th ta .
th st ta ar ca - pa el an th co pi ar re el - em .
th sy is a se or sy wi na
th te ca gr ( tc ) fr of ( mo - ma & bi 12 ) is a to re th ca lo dy re be va , an pr - vi a mo ex re of th re be sy pa an th be va .
th tc fo th tw - ta ex is sh in fi 12 ( b ) .
he , th va ar th pr an ow - ra va as wi th ta an th pi in th sy .
ca ed in a tc ar la wi co pa va an te in de fr th ch of th re co .
re an ju co in - tr al re am th sy va , an th , de in te re su as a di or in pr be th va ( de - no by ) .
on th ot ha , en st el , li ca an in el , in in re - la be sy va ( la wi a dt ) .
fo ex , ca re fr th ow - ra va to th pr va ar la wi a dt th im a te re , i . e . , th ow - ra af th de of th co pr va .
ma sy ha th pr th th be ne de in th ab of a fa .
th de tr of th sy is of ca it no tr .
in su ca , fa ar so de im as an ab ch in a pa th ca a de fr
th no tr .
si th te ca gr de - ne a se of qu co on th sy it ca be us to pr th ef of su di ch in pa , e . g . , bu fa .
by co , tc ge - al ar no us id pa dr fa , wh ar th re of gr ch in sy pa th ac - cu ov ti .
dy ba ne a dy ba ne ( db ) is a te st - ti mo fo a dy sy .
it as th th sy st ca be re by a se of va , de z .
ea of th va zi ca be re - va or di .
we us dt zt to de th di va in th st .
we pa th co va in tw su - se : th su y z ar va th ar me , i . e . , th va is kn to us th re su x ar
th sy is mo as ev in di ti st .
th , ea sy va z ha an in z t fo ea ti sl t .
a db is a co gr re - ta fo th tw - ti - sl co pr di - bu p zt j zt .
it en bo th tr mo an th ob mo .
mo fo , a db is a di ac gr , wh no ar ra va - ab in tw co ti sl : zt an zt .
th ed in th gr re th di de of a ti t + va z t+ ea su no is an wi a co pr di ( cp ) , th de th lo pr mo p z t+ .
th db mo is a co re - re fo th tw - ti - sl di vi th ch .
we no th th tr pr fo an va ar de - mi co by th va of th va in th cu an pr ti st .
th ma as re us to mo ex an va , su as fa , th in - du lo - te co on th sy st .
we re to th is be .
ru : p zt j zt = qi p z t+
on it im ca pa t+
j pa t+
j pa t+
fo th di ta th we fo on , we ca re at to a ve na su of hy db th co li ga ( cl ) mo .
he , we we re th di no ca ha co pa .
we al re th th cp fo a co va be a co li ga .
ro sp , in a li ga de , th no is a li fu of it pa - en wi ga no , wh th pa of th li de ca de on th di pa .
mo pr - ci , if a no x ha co pa y; : : : ; yk an di pa u , we pa it cp us pa - et au : : : ; au an u fo ev in u to th di pa u .
th p x j y; u is a ga di -
i= au an va
bu wi a me au +p
it is im to no th , wi di va in th ne , th ty of db de st li ga - si dy .
he , in th ca , th db is si a gr re of th st dy us in a ka lt , al on th ma ce in
fi 12 : th tw - ta db .
as ex .
in th pr of di pa , th mo re a mi of li mo , wi th mi - tu de by th di va .
db fo di ou go is to re a di sy , of th ty de - sc ab , as a db .
it tu ou th we ca us a tc fo a sy as a bl fo th sk of th db .
we ca th of a tc as a sc fo a sy of eq de th co sy dy .
we di tw ty of ar in a tc : te ar ar an wi a dt , wh no - te ar ar no .
fo an va x wi no in te ar , th tc ex an in co on x as a fu of it pr - so .
fo a va x wi at le on in te ar , th tc ex a te co .
we ge a db st fr a tc as fo : fo ea no xi in th te ca gr , we cr x t an x t+ to de th st of th va at tw co - ut ti po .
( in pr , we wi me no th ar co by eq co in th tc . ) le xj be a no in th tc wh is a di pr of xi .
if th ar fr xj to xi is no - te , we ad an ar fr x t i an an ar fr t+ to x t .
if th ar is te , .
th pr su we ad an ar on fr x t to ge th st fo a db th mo th no be th sy .
to x t+ j to x t+
we th wa to ad va th mo ou ob an re th fa mo of th sy .
ou fr - wo ac fo a wi va of fa mo .
in ou pr , we fo on th im ty : bu fa , me fa an pa dr fa .
to ac th , we ne to ma tw im ad - di to th tc in db .
si an pa th
ca ch mu be mo in th db , we ad no to mo th re va .
in ou im , th we co an no re , si we pr to us a mu mo .
we al ne to ad no co to pr of bu fa an th pr of me fa .
fi 12 sh a db cr by th pr .
th no ft an ft si ad in ow an th fu ha be su by th cp fo p an p .
th no la - be wi m co to ou me of th ow pa in th sy an th di no la wi e in th pr of me fa .
fo ex - pl , we de th cp of m to be a no di ar f wi sm va wh e is fa , bu wi a mu la va wh th e is tr .
th r va mo th co in th sy .
th ha di pa , d , th in th pr of fa .
un th me fa va , th fa va ha pa - en in th pr db ti sl .
th is ne to mo pe ev su as dr .
ea co fa va ta on fo va : st , fa , bu an le .
wh th sy is st , th cp of th co - in r ha lo no .
wh a fa oc , th is a sh in in th va of th co r .
th tw dr fa pr a sm dr , de as a pe of th pa pr va .
we ne th te co - ne be th d no to re th fa th dr pe on a bu st in a pi it te to co .
in th se , we pr an in pr fo fa di an de in mo re as db .
as we ha me , we ca vi db as a st re an ex of tr ka lt .
we th bu ou al st fr th cl - ca ka lt al .
ty ex to th al - ri ma mu ca hy ab th st of th sy .
at ea ti st th up a se of ca - da hy an pr ou un on ba up ev - de .
if th co hy re in th ca se , th al wi tr th st of th sy co .
th pr wi th ty of ap is th it is ve di to de wh hy to ke fo co - pl sy : th ar to ma po ne hy at ea ti , an th in ne to pr aw ba hy of is no ma un se ti st af th hy ar ge .
we pr a no ap - pr th co si hy in a si hy - po , th pr a no ap sm al - ri th we us to im ou ab to ef re th nu of hy .
th ap al us to de wi co fa mo an se in ma fa .
bu it do no sc to co sy th in - vo ma po fa in di co .
we ad th pr by co ou te wi a de me ba on th al of bo an ko ( 12 ) th al th tr of ve la sy .
tr an sm ou dy ba ne re th co st of th sy at ea ti st it in va fo th va as of th co st of th sy su as pr or co , as we as di va - ab re po fa .
th co mo al us to re th pr of fa de an di - ag to th ta of tr ( or lt ) a st dy - na sy .
th tr pr is de as fo .
as th sy ev , we ge ob y; y; : : : .
at ti t , ou mo in ev of th st of th sy - te is ou po di p zt j y; : : : ; yt ab th cu sy st gi al of ou ob so fa .
we ca th po di ou ti t be st , an de it us t .
th pr of a di fa va - ab in th be st ta in co al of th ev up to th pr to de th pr th th fa ha oc .
in pr , tr is a ve ea ta , wh ca be
ac by th fo pr fo : t+ yt j zt tz zt j zt wh is a no co .
th pr is kn as a fo pa .
fo tr gi th be es of th li of a fa gi th ev so fa .
it ca , ho , de wi ca wh a fa is mo , bu wh di ef - fe ar un so th it ef be vi to ou se on la on .
th re is th , at th ti th th ev in th pr of a pr fa , th is no lo a va in th be st th re th oc of th fa .
th is a va de th ev at an ea ti sl , bu th fo pa on ma be ab va in th cu ti st .
to ex di fa of th ty , we ne to al re ba in ti , fr ou cu ev to th ti sl wh th fa to pl .
th pr is kn as sm .
gi ev y; : : : ; yt , we co p zt j y; : : : ; yt : : : ; yt .
th sm pr in - vo a ba pa wh ev fr t + is tr - mi ba ov th in ti sl , up ea of th .
we om de fo la of sp .
on ca of en pr im is th ca of li sy .
th sy ar fu co , wi li ga cp .
in th ca , zt is a li fu of zt an yt is a li fu of zt , bo wi so ad ga no .
in th ca , th be st ca be re ex as a mu ga di ov zt .
th is th ba fo an el tr al ca th ka lt ( ka 12 ) wh ma th be st in cl fo as th sy ev .
un , of we ca ap th ka lt di - re to re - li pr , si ma re - li sy ar no li sy .
th co re be - tw va ar of no an th fa mo
of th sy ar of di , in di ch in sy pa .
wh th sy is no - ea , th be st is no lo a mu ga , an ra ha a co cl fo re .
co ou si tw - ta mo .
he , we ha a pr of tw ra va : th ow f is th pr of th pr p an th co r .
a st so - ti to th ty of pr is to ap th no dy wi li dy , an th us a st li - ea ga mo .
th , we tr to ge th be ap - ti fo th rs an se mo , an ig th re .
th cl me of li is ca th ex ka fi ( ba - sh & fo 12 ) ; it ap - ma th no fu us it se or ta in ou ca , th no fu is a pr , wh is fa si , th we ca co it rs an se or mo in cl fo .
a fa mo pr ty of no is ca by di st ch th in th co sy dy .
fo ex , a fa mi dr ch th co me or va of a co va su as th co .
th ty of si is re in ou mo vi th de of th co va x on th di fa va d .
th ty of mo cr su di fo a tr al .
to un th di , le d; : : : ; dt be so pa in of th di va at ti ; : : : ; t .
gi th in , th dy - na of th co va ar , on ag , li ga .
he , th ti t be st , co on d; : : : ; dt , is a mu ga ov xt .
th di - cu is th we ha on su ga fo ev si in - st d; : : : ; dt .
th , in or to do ex tr , we ne to ma a se hy fo ev co - na of th di va at al ti .
th nu of su hy gr ex wi th le of th se , wh is cl un .
a cl tr al wh de wi th pr - le is de in ( ba - sh & fo 12 ) .
th ma id is to ma ou be st as a sm se of hy , ea of wh co to a si mu - ti ga .
th al , ap to ou se , is as fo .
it is co to in th ra va - ab h t , ea of wh va co to on hy - es .
th di of h t co to th li of th hy .
wh th al do th fo pa , it co al th co of va of h t an dt .
th re is a mi wi k jd co .
ea of th ne hy is co on th ne me yt , an us ba co we ad bo th mi we an th pa of th mu ga .
th al th pr th hy - po th ha lo pr , an se on th mo li on to be pa of th ti t + be st .
i ou se , we al wi to ma va fo th pe - si di st va , si th st of th sy at ti t + de on th va at ti t .
we th re th be st us a si gr mo of th fo dt h t ! xt .
fo , we re ou ti
t be st t as a mi th of k hy , ea of wh is as wi a si mu ga tx j ht an a di di td j ht
th de of th al is th it se so hy - po ex , wh en ig ot .
ca , th hy th ar ma al co to sc th ar al cl to no be , an ar th qu qu si .
by co , th pr hy of co to a pr un fa , th ca le to ve di be .
we th pr a ne ap wh si hy ar co .
li th pr al , we st by pe th fo pr st , de a se of po hy - se h t; dt le ~ h t+ be ra va wh va co to th la se of k jd hy .
ne , th me ar in , an th re is a mi di t+ ov h t; dt an xt .
ou ta is to ge th t + hy fr th mi .
we de a ne se of mi co h t+ , ea of wh ag se of th va of ~ h t+ .
th al - ri th de a co ma th is es a de cp p h t+ j h t; dt .
th co ma is us to de th be st t+ , as a we av of th mi co :
t+ t+ = x ~ h t+
p h t+ j ~ h t+ t+ ~ h t+
t+ j h t+ = x ~ h t+
p ~ h t+ j h t+ t+ j ~ h t+
fi , we de t+ j h t; dt to be th cl ga ap ( i . e . , th ga th ha th sa me an co as th mi ) to
p ~ h t+ p ~ h t+ j h t+ xt j ~ h t+ .
th ma re qu is th ch of wh hy - po to co .
we us a gr ap , th ta in co bo th li of th di hy - po an th si to ea ot .
we so th di - fe hy by th li . 12 th , st fr th mo li hy , we nd th cl hy to it , an me th tw .
no th th me hy - si wi ha hi pr , so wi re at th to of th li .
wh th ar no hy th ar cl en , we mo to th ne mo li hy in ou li .
wh we ha ll ou qu of hy , we co - la al th re hy in on , re of ho cl th ar .
as ou di me , we us th su of th tw re en ( kl - di ) ( co & th 12 ) be th ga as wi th hy .
we no th we de do no us th we in de th di be hy ot , we wo in co un hy in li on , ev if th ar qu ve di .
12 re cp ti in ou im , we rs re al hy wi ex lo pr ( ( ci : 12 ) ) , an th us th me ap to co th re .
bo hy co an pr ar my me - od th on us ev ob up to ti t .
as di - cu ab , th ef of so fa ha a de , so a fa at ti t ma no ma it in ev up to ti t .
si a pr fa pr ar ty qu lo , fa co ha ve we su in ou be - li st .
th , by th ti th da ne to di th fa ar av , th fa tr ma be lo .
th ob so to th pr is to pi th li hy - se ba no on on pa an pr ev bu al on fu ev i . e . , we wa to us we ob af so am of sm .
ho , sm re th we rs pr a be st fo in ti , an th is th ve pr we ar tr to so .
we br th cy by us a sl di me of co hy .
in of so th hy by li we al co th tw mo si ga un ou mi is sm en .
th ma le to a mo ag - si co si we do no ha a bo on th ma kl - di be tw ga th we co .
we ca af to be mo ag he si we wi no us th re of sm to up ou co va , bu on to gu ou hy re me .
it re to sh ho we do th ba pr pr re fo sm .
th pr di is th co ha of th co pa of ou be st ap .
th re is th af co a mi of ga , up th di of ea co ba on on ev re to th re of th co is a no - tr pr .
fo , we ar pr in - es in ge a mo in po fo th hy va , si ou ma go is si to id th mo li hy .
th co pa wi ty tr co if we id th co hy .
th , we ex sm on fo th di va .
th pr is no ea as th we us a lo - he wi of ti sl ( th , th la ob we ge to se is t + + ) .
th ba me to ti st t + is si th pr of yt : : : ; yt gi h t+ .
th me de a po di ov h t+ , wh ca be co us st me .
we no us ou co ma to co th ef of th ne in on dt an h t+ ( ci : 12 ) .
in pa , th pr of al th co wh we co in so ht ar mu by th ch in th pr - it of ht .
th is al in ap si al th co co we si , we sh ch th pr by th sa fa .
th re is a me to ti st t + ( ci : 12 ) , wh is pr in th sa wa .
wh th pr te at ti st t , we ha th pr p h t j y; : : : ; yt , wh we ca th us to be gu wh hy to el , as we as ou co al .
we no , ho , th th re of sm sh be us on fo gu th ap - ti .
in or to av do - co ev , it is ve im to co ou tr us ou un hy we th t .
on of th un as of th al is th it is fe to en al th po in of th di va dt .
un , fo no - tr sy - te , th as is of un .
th nu of po in of th di va dt gr ex wi th nu of di va in th sy .
to de wi th pr , we ta an ap in fo di sy in ( bo & ko 12 ) .
th cr id is to ma us of th fa th la sy ar ty co of su , an th , wh th su ar co , th in be th is of no so st .
th , it mi be re to ap - pr ou be ab th sy us se be ab th su , i . e . , us a be st wh th ar in .
no th th ap is ve di fr on th ig th in be th su - te .
as we do th pr , th st of on su ca in th st of an bu we th de th co re fr th in wh we ma - ta ou be ab th cu sy st .
mo pr , we pa th sy va in n di se , co to th di su .
le di an xi be th di an co va in su - sy i , re .
as fo th ca of a si sy , we re th be st fo ea su i as a mi , re us a hy va hi .
we al as - ci wi ea su a se of ob va yi , wh ar th on th ar mo re to th su .
i ov ea su i .
si su i ma be in di by so ot su , we ca pe th in co in is in su i .
in , we co th ex - te su wh in su i , an al th va fr ot su wh in it .
ou go is to ge a be st t
gi ou be st re , it is po to de - sc th di ov th ex su as a mi - tu of ga .
as in th si su ca , we ca in ev wh ch ou pr di - ti ov di va as we as ov co va - ab .
no th di ex su ma ov - la , an af in di me in th su we ma ha a di di ov th sh va .
we sy th pr us a me - pa al ca ca ( la & sp 12 ) .
as in ba pr , we on up th di va , no th co on .
as a re of th ph , al th di va ar up us al th me in .
th is im , as ou ev ca be im in de th li - ho of th di hy .
it is al po to mo th sm al to us th de re of th be st .
th co is do in in ev su us th sa al ( an gi a co ma fo ev su ) .
th ba me ar us to up th hy va of ea on of th su .
th in - fo ca be pr ba wi th co ma .
th on di is th af th pr ,
fi 12 : fi ta sy an re
we ne to ca th di va of th su , ju li in th fo pa .
we te ou al on a sy wh co ve wa - te ta , sh in fi 12
th sy co si co - du an ve pr , wh ar al fr pa , bu on th me , ma it a ch sy - te to tr .
in ad , th sy co th th ty of fa de in se : dr , bu an me - me er , ea oc wi pr : .
th , at ev ti st ev co ha 12 po fa mo ( st , fa , bu , le ) an ea me ha 12 po fa mo .
co al th po fa - ur at ti t + an th pe fa fr ti t , th sy ha po fa mo at an po in ti , el an ho of us in wi so de of th sy .
in ou ex we de th sy in ve su , si de in le su de - ma to mu me .
ea ta wa co to be a su ( se fi 12 ) .
we tr ve hy pe su , wi a lo of tw st wh do sm .
we te ou al on a co se - at t = , r st to ex a ne dr .
at t = , we in tw si me
er in th me of f an fo .
at t = , r bu , an th re to a st st .
at t = r st a ne dr .
at t = r bu an th re to no .
at t = r bu .
th gr in fi 12 sh th re of tr r ,
r an r .
in , at t = th ef of th dr in r wa ne .
th co hy ha a pr - ab of : , bu af sm th pr we up to : .
as a re ou al co th a li hy , an ke it in th be st .
at t = th pr of a ne dr we fr : to : af - te sm .
at th po ou al co de th ne dr , an ma a ve hi pr fo th ev un t = .
at th po , be sm , ou al co tw hy : a bu in r ( pr - ab ) or th pe of th ne dr an a me fa ( pr ) .
sm ra th pr of a bu ( th co hy ) to .
th ac va of r we tr wi hi ac .
th me of f ma th tr of r a re - at si pr .
th ar mu mo co fo r .
no on is th no di me of f , th is no me at al in su 12 ! th , tr r is a re ch .
du to la of sp we om th ac nu , bu in th ru ou al de - te th dr as so as it be .
( in ot ru th de - te wa so de by 12 st . ) it is al in - te to se th be of r du th bu .
ou al de th bu , bu si no ev is us in su 12 it co no tr th tr va of th bu co .
we pl to ad th pr in fu wo by pr co in be th su - te as we as di in .
fo th me fa at t = , ou al be in al th sa wa fo th tw me , so we re on m on .
be sm , ou al co tw hy a bu in r ( pr : ) or a me fa an a pe ne dr in r ( pr : ) .
af sm th pr of th co hy we up to al .
we fe th th re de th po of ou al - go , an it ab to co di an tr ev a co sy wi a sm nu of me .
co an fu wo
in th pa , we pr a ne ap fo mo an di of hy sy .
we mo th sy as db , th re th pr of di to th pr - le of tr .
it is no a su th tr hy sy - te is al a di pr .
in th pa we fo on a sp cl of hy sy : on th gi so pa - ti as to th di va ha li dy - na ( or ca be li wi a sa pr ) .
fu , we fo on sy th ar co of se - er we in su .
we be th ma re - li ph sy be to th cl of sy .
we pr a no tr al fo th cl of sy .
fi , we co si hy in of ju ch th mo li on .
th te al us to us a bo wi lo - ah in th fu .
we us fu ob to as us in de wh hy - po ar th li ca an sh be ke re un , an wh ar le li an ca be co mo ag .
ou na co is in a
wa to av th ex bl , ca by ma di - cr va wi a ti sl .
we do th by re se ab th di su , wh st pr - ga co be th .
ou in ex wi th ap ar ve en - co .
we ha te it on a ve la sy ( on wi di di st pe ti sl ) , wi a pa - ti di sc .
ou al fo mo of th fa , sh th it ca be us to pr re tr - in an di ev fo ve ha pr .
of co , we pl to co fu ex in ot do .
we ar cu wo on ex th ca al - go to al us to pr in be su - sy no on fo th di va bu fo co - ou va as we .
we be th th ne fe wi si im ou tr ca , es on lo se wi ma ev .
we ar al lo fo wa to ex th al be - yo th fa of co li sy ( or sy wh ca be ap as su ) .
in pa , we ho to be ab to ha di ch of co pa an hi no - li ev mo .
fi , we ho to ap ou al on re - li ap - pl an no ju on sy da .
we ar ex po ap in th di do , su as mo - it th pe of an en , as we as ap in ot do , su as vi tr .
ac .
th re wa su by an on yo in aw gr nu n1 - 12 - 12 - 12 an by ar un th mu pr , in ap to in sy , gr nu da - 12 - 12 - 12 , an by th te fo .
