a lar por of rea - wor dat is sto in com - mer rel dat sys .
mos sta lea met wor onl wit at dat rep .
thu , to app the met , we are for to con our dat int a at for , the los muc of the rel str pre in our dat .
thi pap bui on the rec wor on pro rel mod - els ( prm ) , and des how to lea the fro dat .
prm all the pro of an obj to dep pro bot on oth pro - tie of tha obj and on pro of rel ob - jec .
alt prm are sig mor ex - pre tha sta mod , suc as bay net , we sho how to ext wel - kno sta - tis met for lea bay net to lea the mod .
we des bot par est and str lea the aut ind of the dep str in a mod .
mor , we sho how the lea pro can exp sta dat ret tec for efc lea fro lar dat .
we pre exp res on bot rea and syn re -
rel mod are the mos com rep of str dat .
ent bus inf , mar and sal dat , med rec , and sci dat are all sto in rel dat .
ind , rel dat are a mul - bil dol ind .
rec , the has bee gro - ing int in mak mor sop use of the hug amo of dat , in par min the dat for cer - tai pat and reg .
by exp mod the reg , we can gai a dee und of our do - mai and may dis use rel .
we can als use our mod to ll in unk but imp inf
the ins of com sci , heb uni ,
jer 123 , isr
com sci dep , sta uni , gat
bui 123 , sta ca 123 - 123
exa , we may be int in pre whe a per is a pot mon - lau bas on the ban dep , int tra , bus con and arr rec of kno ass ( jen , 123 ) .
in ano cas , we may be int in cla web pag as bel to a stu - den , a fac mem , a pro , etc . , usi att of the web pag and of rel pag ( cra et al . , 123 ) .
unf , few ind lea alg are cap - ble of han dat in its rel for .
mos are res to dea wit a at set of ins , eac wit its own sep - rat att .
to use the met , one typ att the rel dat , rem its ric str .
thi pro - ces , how , los inf whi mig be cru in und the dat .
con , for exa , the pro of pre the val of an att of a cer ent , e . g . , whe a per is a mon - lau .
thi att wil be cor wit oth att of thi ent , as wel as wit att of rel ent , e . g . , of nan tra - tio con by thi per , of oth peo inv in the tra , of oth tra con by the peo , etc .
in ord to att thi pro , we wou nee to dec in adv on a xed set of att tha the lea - ing alg can use in thi tas .
thu , we wan a lea alg tha can dea wit mul ent and the pro - ert , and can rea con abo an ent cha - ist bas on the pro of the ent to whi it is re - lat .
unt now , ind log pro ( ilp ) ( lav and dze , 123 ) has bee the pri lea fra - wor wit thi cap .
ilp alg lea log hor rul for det whe som rst - ord pre hol .
whi ilp is an exc sol in man set , it may be ina in oth .
the mai lim is the det - ist nat of the rul dis .
in man dom , suc as the exa abo , we enc int cor tha are far fro bei det .
our goa in thi pap is to lea mor ren pro - tic mod , tha rep sta cor bot bet the pro of an ent and bet the pro of re - lat ent .
suc a mod can the be use for rea abo an ent usi the ent ric str of kno enc by the rel rep .
the sta poi for our wor is the str rep - tio of pro mod , as exe in bay net - wor ( bns ) .
a bn all us to pro a com rep -
res of a com pro dis ove som xed set of att or ran var .
the rep - tio exp the loc of inu tha is pre in man dom .
we bui on two rec dev in the eld of bay net .
the rst is the dee und of the sta lea pro in suc mod ( hec - man , 123 hec et al . , 123 ) and the rol of str - tur in pro an app bia for the lea tas .
the sec is the rec dev of rep tha ext the att - bas bn rep to inc a muc ric rel str ( kol and pfe , 123 ngo and had , 123 poo , 123 ) .
in thi pap , we com the two adv .
ind , one of our key con is to sho tha man of the tec - niq of bay net lea can be ext to the tas of lea the mor com mod .
thi con - tio gen ( kol and pfe , 123 ) s pre wor on thi top .
we sta by des the sem of pro - bil rel mod .
we the exa the pro of par est and str sel for thi cla of mod .
we dea wit som cru tec iss tha dis - tin the pro of lea rel pro mod - els fro tha of lea bay net .
we pro a for of the lik fun app to thi set - tin , and sho how it int wit the sta ass of bn lea .
the sea ove coh dep str - tur is sig mor com tha in the cas of lea - ing bn str and we int the nec too and con to do thi eff .
we the des exp - tal res on syn and rea - wor dat , and nal dis pos ext and app .
123 und fra 123 rel mod we des our rel mod in gen ter , clo re - lat to the lan of ent - rel mod .
thi gen - era all our fra to be map int a var of spe rel sys , inc the pro log pro of ( ngo and had , 123 poo , 123 ) , and the pro fra sys of ( kol and pfe , 123 ) .
our lea res app to all of the fra .
eac rel
and a set of rel
the voc of a rel mod con of a set of tak on val in som xed dom is typ .
thi voc
ent typ is ass wit a set of att den a sch for our rel mod .
con a sim gen mod of the inh of a sin gen tha det a per blo typ .
eac per - son has two cop of the chr con thi gen , one inh fro her mot , and one inh fro her fa - the .
the is als a pos con tes tha att to rec the per blo typ .
our sch con two cla per and blo - tes , and thr rel fat , mot , and tes - of .
att of per are nam , gen , p - chr ( the chr inh fro the fat ) , m - chr ( inh fro the mot ) .
the att
for eac ent typ
for eac ent
of a sch den a set of ent , the ins has an ass at - .
for eac rel
; its val in
we are int in des a pro mod ove ins of a rel sch .
how , som att , suc as a nam or soc sec num , are ful det - min .
we lab suc att as xed .
we ass tha the are kno in any ins of the sch .
the oth att are cal pro .
a ske str a rel sch is a par spe of an ins of the sch .
it spe the set of obj cla , the val of the xed att of the obj , and the rel tha hol bet the obj .
how , it lea the val of pro att uns .
a com - ext the ske by als spe the val of the pro att .
of the ske str
one nal den whi wil tur out to be use is the is any rel , we not of a slo cha .
if - th arg to obt a , whi we can the vie as a slo , we let .
for any hol .
( in rel alg not .
we can con slo to for lon slo cha , den by com of bin rel .
s in the cha mus be app typ . ) ( eac of the
. ) obj in thi set are cal
den all the ele
of blo - tes are ser - num , dat , con , and
123 pro rel mod we now pro to the den of pro rel mod ( prm ) .
the bas goa her is to mod our unc - tai abo the val of the non - xed , or pro , at - tri of the obj in our dom of dis .
in oth wor , giv a ske str , we wan to den a pro - bil dis ove all com of the ske .
our pro mod con of two com : the , and the par as - qua dep str , .
the dep str is den by soc wit it , ass wit eac att the cor to for par the wil be ins in dif way for dif obj in .
int , the par are att tha are dir inu on
a set of par pa
we dis bet two typ of for par
the att
wil dep pro on
can dep on ano pro att
pen for ind obj : for any obj can als dep on att of rel obj dep for an ind obj
thi for dep ind a cor de - is a slo cha .
to und the sem of thi for , rec tha .
exc in cas whe the slo cha is gua to be sin - val , we mus spe the pro dep of dat the giv us pre the rig too to add
sen the set of obj tha are w - rel of
the not of agg fro
fig 123 : the prm str for a sim gen dom .
fix att are sho in reg fon and pro att are sho in ita .
dot lin ind rel bet ent and sol arr ind pro de -
thi iss i . e . , wil dep pro on som ag - gre pro of thi mul .
the are man nat and use not of agg : the mod of the set ( mos fre - que occ val ) ; mea val of the set ( if val are num ) ; med , max , or min ( if val are ord ) ; car of the set etc .
mor for , our lan all a not of an agg - tak a mul of val of som gro typ , and ret a sum of it .
the typ of the agg can be the sam as tha of its arg .
how , we all oth typ as wel , e . g . , an agg tha rep the siz of the mul .
; the sem is tha for any
ret to our gen exa , con the att res .
sin the res of a blo tes dep on whe it was con , it has blo - tes the res als dep on the ge - as a par .
net mat of the per tes .
sin - val , we add blo - tes p - chr as par .
fig 123 sho the str of a sim prm for thi dom .
to hav as a par
wil dep on the val of in the obv way .
we ass
mor pre , let
, we can den giv a set of par pa a loc pro mod for a con pro dis ( cpd ) tha spe be the set of par -
a sim att in the sam rel or an agg of a set in som gro rel has a set of val
, the cpd spe typ .
for eac tup of val .
the par in
all of the cpd com
rec tha eac of the par
giv a ske str for our sch , we wan to use the loc pro mod to den a pro dis - but ove com of the ske .
fir , not tha the ske det the set of obj in our mod .
we ass - cia a ran var wit eac pro att .
the ske als det the rel
of eac obj
bet obj , and the the set of w - rel ass wit eve obj for eac rel cha w
als not tha by ass tha the rel bet obj are al - way spe by , we are dis unc ove the rel str of the mod .
to den a coh pro mod ove thi ske - ton , we mus ens tha our pro dep are acy , so tha a ran var doe not dep , dir or ind , on its own val .
con the par of an , we den an is a par of
we say tha a , we den an edg the dir gra den by acy .
in thi cas , we can den a coh pro mod ove com ins
is acy rel to a ske ove the var
is a par of
" ci zs (
pro 123 : if a dis ove com
is acy rel to
, the ( 123 ) den
we bri ske a pro of thi pro , by sho how to con a bn ove the pro att of a .
thi con is rem of the kno - bas mod con app ( wel et al . , 123 ) .
her , how , the con is mer a tho - exp our lea alg nev con thi net .
in thi net the is a nod for eac var - and for agg qua req by par .
the par of the agg ran var are all of the at - tri tha par in the agg , acc to the .
the cpd of ran var tha rel spe by cor to pro att are sim the cpd de - , and the cpd of ran var tha cor - spo to agg nod cap the det fun of the par agg ope .
it is eas to ver tha if the pro dep are acy , the so is the ind bay net .
thi con als sug one way of ans que abo a rel mod .
we can com the cor bay net and use sta too for ans que abo it .
alt for eac ske , we can com a prm int a bay net , a prm exp muc mor inf tha the res bn .
a bn den a pro dis ove a xed set of att .
a prm spe a dis ove any ske in dif ske , the set ( and num - ber ) of ent in the dom wil var , as wil the rel bet the ent .
in a way , prm are to bns as a set of rul in rst - ord log is to a set of rul in pro log : a rul suc as
ind a pot inn set of gro
123 par est we now mov to the tas of lea prm .
we beg wit lea the par for a prm whe the dep
str is kno .
in oth wor , we are giv the str tha det the set of par for eac att , and our tas is to lea the par tha den the cpd for thi str .
our lea is bas on a par tra set , whi we wil tak to be a com ins thi tas is rel str , it is of int in and of its .
in add , it is a cru com in the str lea alg des in the nex sec .
the key ing in par est is the lik fun , the pro of the dat giv the mod .
thi fun cap the res of the pro dis to cha in the par .
as usu , the lik of a par set is den to be the pro of the dat giv as usu , we
typ wor wit the log of thi fun :
" ci zs (
the key ins is tha thi equ is ver sim to the log - lik of dat giv a bay net ( hec - in fac , it is the lik fun of the bay net ind by the str giv the ske - ton .
the mai dif fro sta bay net par lea is tha par for dif nod in the net are for to be ide .
thu , we can use the wel - und the of lea fro bay net .
con the tas of per max lik par - ete est .
her , our goa is to nd the par set - .
thi est is sim by the de - com of log - lik fun int a sum of ter cor to the var att of the dif cla .
eac of the ter in the squ bra in ( 123 ) can be max ind of the res .
hen , max lik - hoo est red to ind max pro - lem , one for eac cpd .
tha max the lik (
for mul cpd , max lik est can be don via suf sta whi in thi cas are jus tha the at - the cou c
and its par can joi tak .
pro 123 : ass mul cpd , the max
lik par set
& of the dif val
as a con of thi pro , par lea in prm is red to cou suf sta .
we nee to cou one vec of suf sta for eac cpd .
suc cou can be don in a str man usi sta - dar dat que .
not tha thi pro sho tha lea par in prm is ver sim to lea par in bay net - wor .
in fac , we mig vie thi as lea par for the bn tha the prm ind giv the ske .
how , as
dis abo , the lea par can the be use for rea abo oth ske , whi ind a com
in man cas , max lik par est is not rob , as it ove the tra dat .
the bay ap - pro use a pri dis ove the par to smo the irr in the tra dat , and is the sig - nic mor rob .
as we wil see in sec 123 , the bay fra als giv us a goo met for eva - ing the qua of dif can str .
due to spa lim , we onl bri des thi alt app .
rou spe , the bay app int a pri ove the unk par , and per bay con , usi the dat as evi , to com a pos - rio dis ove the par .
to app thi ide in our set , rec tha the prm par of a set of ind pro dis con dis of the for .
fol the wor on bay app for lea - ing bay net ( hec , 123 ) , we mak two as - sum .
fir , we ass par ind : the pri ove the par are ind .
sec , we ass tha the pri ove is a dir dis .
bri , a dir pri for is spe by a set
a mul dis of a var ! is dir if& ( ' k ( )
for a par pri sat the two ass , the pos als has thi for .
tha is , it is a pro of ind - pen dir dis ove the par whi can be com eas .
pro 123 : if is a com ass , and the pri sat par ind and dir wit hyp -
the par of ( for mor det see ( deg , 123 ) . )
a dis on
for the dif
is a pro of dir dis wit hyp
& , the the pos
onc we hav upd the pos , how do we eva the pro of new dat ? in the cas of bn lea , we ass tha ins are iid , whi imp tha the are in - dep giv the val of the par .
thu , to eva - ate a new ins , we onl nee the pos ove the par - ete .
the pro of the new ins is the the pro - bil giv eve pos par val , wei by the pos pro ove the val .
in the cas of bns , thi ter can be rew sim as the ins pro - ity acc to the exp val of the par ( i . e . , the mea of the pos dir for eac par ) .
thi sug - ges tha we mig use the exp par for eva - ing new dat .
ind , the for for the exp par is ana to the one for bns : pro 123 : ass mul cpd , pri in - dep , and dir pri , wit hyp
" , we hav tha :
unf , the exp par are not the pro bay sol for com pro of new dat .
the are two pos com .
alr in the dat .
in thi cas , the int
of som per - als cha our pro abo the .
we the can sim use our old pos -
the rst pro is tha , in our set , the ass of iid dat is oft vio .
spe , a new ins mig not be con ind of old one giv the par - ete .
con the gen dom , and ass tha our new dat inv inf abo the mot of the new obj ter abo the par to rea abo the new ins .
thi pro doe not occ if the new dat is not rel to the tra dat , tha is , whe the new dat is ess a dis dat wit the sam sch .
mor int , the pro als dis whe att of new obj are not par of any att in the tra set .
in the ge - net exa , thi mea tha we can ins new peo int our dat , as lon as the are not anc of peo al - rea in the dat .
the sec pro inv the for jus for usi exp par val .
thi arg dep on the fac tha the pro of a new ins is lin in the val of eac par .
tha is , eac par is use at mos onc .
thi ass is vio whe we con the pro of a com dat inv mul in - sta fro the sam cla .
in thi cas , our int of the pro of the new dat giv the par can no lon be red to com the pro rel to the ex - pec par val .
the cor exp is cal the mar lik of the ( new ) dat we use it in sec 123 for sco str .
for now , we not tha if the pos is sha pea ( i . e . , we hav see man tra ins ) , we can app thi ter by usi the exp par - ter of pro 123 , as we cou for a sin ins .
in pra , we wil oft use the exp par as our
123 str sel we now mov to the mor cha pro of lea a dep str aut , as opp to hav it giv by the use .
the are thr imp iss tha nee to be add .
we mus det whi dep str - tur are leg we nee to eva the goo of dif - ent can str and we nee to den an eff sea pro tha nds a goo str .
123 leg str whe we con dif dep str , it is im - por to be sur tha the dep str res in coh pro mod .
to gua thi pro , we see fro pro 123 tha the ske .
of cou , we can eas ver for be acy rel to a giv can str tha it is acy rel to the of our tra dat .
how , we als wan to gua tha it wil be acy rel to oth dat tha we may enc in our dom .
how do we gua acy for an arb dat ? a sim app is to
if eit ( a )
is a par of
ens tha dep amo att res som ord ( i . e . , are str ) .
mor pre , we say tha is a par of , or ( b ) and the w - rel .
we the req tha are of cla pen onl on att tha pre it in the ord .
whi thi sim app cle ens acy , it is too lim to cov man imp cas .
con - sid aga our gen mod .
of a per dep on the gen of her par thu , we hav per p - chr dep dir on p - chr , whi cle vio the req - men of our sim app .
in thi mod , the app - ent cyc at the att lev is res at the lev of ind obj , as a per can be his / her own an - ces .
tha is , the res of acy rel on som pri kno tha we hav abo the dom .
to all our lea alg to dea wit dep mod suc as thi we mus all the use to giv our alg pri kno .
we all the use to ass tha cer slo
gua tha the is a par ord say tha w
- rel for som is gua acy if eac of its com
i are gua acy i . e . , we are
suc tha if
is gua acy .
is a par of
whi is gre if w
we use thi pri kno det the leg of cer - tai dep mod .
we sta by bui a gra tha des the dir dep bet the att .
in thi gra , we hav a yel edg , we hav an is gua acy and red oth .
( not tha the mig be sev edg , of dif col , bet two att ) .
the int is tha dep alo gre edg rel obj tha are or - der by an acy ord .
thu the edg by the or com wit int - obj dep ( yel edg ) can - not cau a cyc dep .
we mus tak car wit oth dep , for whi we do not hav pri kno , as the mig for a cyc .
thi int sug the fol - ing den : a ( col ) dep gra is str if eve cyc in the gra con at lea one gre edg and no red edg .
is str , the for any ske
pro 123 : if the col dep gra of
dis ove ass to
for whi the slo den a coh pro
are joi acy ,
thi not of str gen the two spe cas we con abo .
whe we do not hav any gua - tee acy rel , all the edg in the dep gra are col eit yel or red .
thu , the gra is str - ed if and onl if it is acy .
in the gen exa , all the rel wou be in .
thu , it suf to che tha dep wit obj ( yel edg ) are acy .
pro 123 : str of a col gra can be de - ter in tim lin in the num of edg in the gra .
we omi the det of the alg for lac of spa , but it rel on sta gra alg .
fin , we not tha it
is eas to exp thi den of str for sit whe our pri kno inv sev set of gua - tee acy rel , eac set wit its own ord ( e . g . , ob - jec on a gri wit a nor - sou ord and an eas - wes ord ) .
we sim col the gra wit sev col , and che tha eac cyc con edg wit exa one col oth tha yel , exc for red .
123 eva dif str now tha we kno whi str are leg , we nee to de - cid how to eva dif str in ord to pic one tha ts the dat wel .
we ada bay mod sel met to our fra .
for , we wan to com the pos pro of a str giv an ins - .
usi bay rul we hav tha .
thi sco is com of two mai par : the pri pro of the str , and the pro of the dat ass tha str .
the rst com is
, whi den a pri ove str .
we ass tha the cho of str is in - dep of the ske , and thu .
in the con of bay net , we oft use a sim uni pri ove pos dep str .
unf , thi ass doe not wor in our set .
the pro is tha the may be inn man pos str .
in our ge - net exa , a per gen can dep on the gen - typ of his par , or of his gra , or of his gre - gra , etc .
a sim and nat sol pen
the sec com is the mar lik :
lon ind slo cha , by hav
the sum of the len of the cha w app in
if we use a par ind dir pri ( as abo , thi int dec int a pro of int eac of whi has a sim clo for sol .
( thi is a sim - ple gen of the ide use in the bay sco for pro 123 : if
is a com ass , and
, is equ to
sat par ind and is dir wit hy - , the mar
the mar lik is a pro of sim ter , eac of whi cor to a dis .
mor , the ter for dep onl on the hyp " suf sta c the mar lik ter is the dom ter in the pro of a str .
it bal the com of the
" and the
" , the ,
is the gam fun .
str wit its t to the dat .
thi bal can be mad exp via the asy rel of the mar lik - hoo to exp pen , suc as the mdl sco ( see , e . g . , ( hec , 123 ) ) .
fin , we not tha the bay sco req tha we ass a pri ove par val for eac pos str - tur .
sin the are man ( per inn man ) alt - nat str , thi is a for tas .
in the cas of bay net , the is a cla of pri tha can be de - scr by a sin net ( hec et al . , 123 ) .
the pri hav the add pro of bei str equ - len , tha is , the gua tha the mar lik is the sam for str tha are , in som str sen , equ .
the not hav not yet bee den for our ric str - tur , so we def the iss to fut wor .
ins , we sim ass tha som sim dir pri ( e . g . , a uni one ) has bee den for eac att and par set .
123 str sea now tha we hav a tes for det whe a str is leg , and a sco fun tha all us to eva dif - fer str , we nee onl pro a pro for nd - ing leg hig - sco str .
for bay net , we kno tha thi tas is np - har ( chi , 123 ) .
as prm lea is at lea as har as bn lea ( a bn is sim a prm wit one cla and no rel ) , we can hop to nd an efc pro tha alw nds the hig sco str .
thu , we mus res to heu sea .
the sim - ple suc alg is gre hil - cli sea , usi our sco as a met .
we mai our cur can str and ite imp it .
at eac ite , we con a set of sim loc tra to tha str , sco all of the , and pic the one wit hig sco .
we dea wit loc max usi ran res .
as in bay net , the dec pro of the sco has sig imp on the com ef - cie of the sea alg .
fir , we dec the sco int a sum of loc sco cor to ind att and the par .
now , if our sea alg con - sid a mod to our cur str whe the par set of a sin att is dif , onl the com wil cha .
thu , we nee of the sco ass wit onl ree thi par com , lea the oth unc thi res in maj com sav .
the are two pro wit thi sim app .
fir , as dis in the pre sec , we hav inn man pos str .
sec , eve the ato ste of the sea are exp the pro of com suf sta req exp dat ope .
eve if we res the set of can str at eac ste of the sea , we can aff to do all the dat ope nec - ess to eva all of the .
we pro a heu sea alg tha add bot the iss .
at a hig lev , the alg pro , we hav a set of pot par .
we the do a sta str sea res to the spa of str in whi .
the adv of the par of eac thi app is tha we can pre the vie cor -
in pha .
at eac pha
are in pot
for eac att
; mos of the exp com the joi and the agg req in the den of the par are pre in the vie .
the suf - cie sta for any sub of pot par can eas be der fro thi vie .
the abo con , tog wit the dec of the sco , all the ste of the sea ( say , gre hil - cli ) to don ver efc .
the suc of thi app dep on the cho of the pot par .
cle , a wro ini cho can res to poo str .
fol ( fri et al . , 123 ) , whi ex - ami a sim app in the con of lea bay net , we pro an ite app tha sta wit som str ( pos one whe eac att doe not hav any par ) , and sel the set pot thi str .
we the app the sea pro and get a new , hig sco , str .
we cho new pot par - ent bas on thi new str and rei , sto whe no fur imp is mad .
it rem onl to dis the cho of pot
dif pha .
per the sim app is to beg by .
in suc -
siv pha , pot wou con of all of pa as wel as all att tha are rel to via slo cha .
of cou , the new att wou req
agg we sid the iss by pre pos ag - gre for eac att .
to be the set of att in
thi sch exp the set of pot par at eac ite .
how , it usu res in lar set of pot - tia par .
thu , we act use a mor ren alg if the see to add tha onl add par to pot .
the are sev rea way val bey pa of eva the add val pro by new par .
som of the are dis in ( fri et al . , 123 ) in the con of lea bay net .
the res sug tha we sho eva a new pot par by mea - if we add the ing the cha of sco for the fam of to its cur par .
we the cho the hig sco of the , as wel as the cur par , to be the new set of pot par .
thi app all us to sig - can red the siz of the pot par set , and the of the res vie , whi bei unl to cau sig deg in the qua of the lea mod .
123 imp and exp res we imp our lea alg on top of the pos - gre obj - rel dat man sys .
all re - qui cou wer obt sim thr dat sel - tio que , and cac to avo per the sam que twi .
dur the sea pro , we cre tem ma - ter vie cor to joi bet dif re - lat , and the vie wer the use for com the
we tes our pro lea alg on two do - mai , one rea and one syn .
the two dom hav ver dif cha .
the rst is a mov dat tha con thr rel : mov , act and app , whi rel act to mov in whi the pla
obt fro htt : / / www - db . sta . edu / pub / mov / doc . htm
dat con abo 123 mov and 123 act .
whi thi dat has a sim str , it pre the kin of pro one oft enc whe dea wit rea dat : mis val , lar dom for att , and inc - sis use of val .
the fac tha our alg was abl to dea wit thi kin of rea - wor pro is qui pro - ing .
our alg lea the mod sho in fig 123 ( a ) .
thi mod is rea , and clo to one tha we wou con - sid to be cor .
it lea tha the gen of a mov dep on its dec and its lm pro ( col , bla & whi , tec etc . ) and tha the dec dep on its lm pro .
it als lea an int dep com - bin all thr rel : the rol - typ pla by an act in a mov dep on the gen of the act and the gen of
the sec dat , an art gen dat sim to the exa in thi pap , pre qui dif cha - len .
for one thi , the rec nat of thi dom all arb com joi to be den .
in add , the pro mod in thi dom is fai sub .
eac per has thr rel att p - chr , m - chr , and blo all wit the sam dom and all rel som to the sam att of the per mot and fat .
the gol sta is the mod use to gen the dat the str of tha mod was sho ear - lie in fig 123
we tra our alg on dat of var - iou siz ran up to 123
a dat set of siz of a fam tre con peo , wit an ave of 123 blo tes per per .
we eva our alg on a tes set of siz 123 , 123
fig 123 ( b ) sho the log - lik of the tes set for the lea mod .
in mos cas , our alg lea a mod wit the cor str , and sco wel .
how , in a sma min of cas , the alg got stu in loc max , lea a mod wit inc str tha sco qui poo .
thi can be see in the sca plo of fig 123 ( b ) whi sho tha the med log - lik of the lea mod is qui rea , but the are a few out .
sta tec suc as ran res can be use to dea wit loc max .
123 dis and con in thi pap , we den a new sta lea tas : lea - ing pro rel mod fro dat .
we hav sho tha man of the ide fro bay net lea car ove to thi new tas .
how , we hav als sho tha it als rai man new cha .
sca the ide to lar dat is an imp iss .
we bel tha thi can be ach by a clo int wit the tec of dat sys , inc ind and que opt .
fur , the has bee a lot of rec wor on ext inf fro mas dat set , inc wor on ndi fre occ com of val for att .
we bel tha the ide wil hel sig in the com of suf sta .
the are als sev imp pos ext to thi wor .
per the mos obv one is the tre of mis - ing dat and hid var .
we can ext sta tec - niq ( suc as exp max for mis dat )
fig 123 : ( a ) the prm lea for the mov dom , a rea - wor dat con abo 123 mov and 123 act .
( b ) lea cur sho the gen per of prm lea in the gen dom .
the - axi sho the dat siz the - axi sho log - lik of a tes set of siz 123 , 123
for eac sam siz , we sho 123 ind lea exp .
the cur sho med log - lik of the mod as a fun of the sam siz .
to thi tas ( see ( kol and pfe , 123 ) for som pre - ina wor on rel mod . ) how , the com of inf on lar dat wit man mis val mak the cos of a nai app of suc alg pro .
cle , thi dom cal bot for new inf alg and for new lea alg tha avo rep cal to inf ove the ver lar pro .
eve mor int - ing is the iss of aut dis of hid var .
the are som pre ans to thi que in the con of bay net ( fri , 123 ) , in the con - tex of ilp ( lav and dze , 123 ) , and ver rec in the con of sim bin rel ( hof et al . , 123 ) .
com the ide and ext the to thi mor com - ple fra is a sig and int cha .
ano dir ext the cla of mod we con .
her , we ass tha the rel str is spe be - for the pro att val are det .
a ric cla of prm ( e . g . , tha of ( kol and pfe , 123 ) ) wou all pro ove the str of the mod for ex - amp : unc ove the set of obj in the mod , e . g . , the num of chi a cou has , or ove the rel be - twe obj , e . g . , who is the blo tha was fou on a cri sce .
ult , we wou wan the tec to hel us aut dis int ent and rel - tio tha hol in the wor .
nir fri was sup by a gra fro the mic sac tru .
lis get , dap kol , and avi pfe - fer wer sup by onr con n12 - 123 - c - 123 un - der dar hpk pro , by onr gra n12 - 123 - 123 - 123 , by the aro und the mur pro int ap - pro to int sys , and by the gen of the slo fou and of the pow fou .
