sup and uns lea met hav tra - tio foc on dat con of ind ins of a sin typ .
how , man rea - wor dom are bes des by rel mod in whi ins of mul typ are rel to eac oth in com way .
for exa - ple , in a sci pap dom , pap are rel to eac oth via cit , and are als rel to the aut .
in thi cas , the lab of one ent ( e . g . , the top of the pap ) is of - ten cor wit the lab of rel ent .
we pro a gen cla of mod for cla and clu in re - lat dom tha cap pro dep be - twe rel ins .
we sho how to lea suc mod efc fro dat .
we pre emp res on two rea wor dat set .
our exp in a tra cla - sic set ind tha acc can be sig imp by mod rel dep .
our alg - rit aut ind a ver nat beh , whe our kno abo one ins hel us cla rel one , whi in tur hel us cla oth .
in an uns - vis set , our mod pro coh clu wit a ver nat int , eve for ins typ tha do not hav any att .
mos sup and uns lea met ass tha dat ins are ind and ide dis ( iid ) .
num cla and clu app hav bee des to wor on suc at dat , whe eac dat ins is a x ed - len vec of att val - ues ( see ( dud et al . , 123 ) for a sur ) .
how , man rea - wor dat set are muc ric in str , inv in - sta of mul typ tha are rel to eac oth .
hyp - tex is one exa , whe web pag are con by lin .
ano exa is a dom of sci pap , whe pa - per are rel to eac oth via cit , and are als rel to the aut .
the iid ass is cle vio for two pap wri by the sam aut or two pap lin by cit , whi are lik to hav the sam top .
rec , the has bee a gro int in lea tec for mor ric str dat .
rel lin bet ins pro a uni sou of inf - mat tha has bee pro use for bot cla and clu in the hyp dom ( sla and cra ,
123 kle , 123 ) .
int , rel lea met - ods att to use our kno abo one obj to rea con abo oth , rel obj .
for exa , we wou lik to pro inf abo the top of a pa - to pap tha it cit .
the , in tur , wou pro inf to pap tha the cit .
we wou als lik to use inf abo s top to hel us rea con abo the res are of s aut , and abo the top of oth pap wri by tha aut .
sev aut hav pro rel cla met alo the lin of thi inu pro ide .
nev and jen ( 123 ) pre an ite cla alg whi ess imp thi pro exa , by ite ass lab to tes ins the cla is con abo , and usi the lab to cla rel ins .
sla and mit ( 123 ) pro an ite alg cal foi - hub for the pro of cla - ing web pag , e . g . , as bel to a uni stu or not .
how , non of the app pro a sin coh mod of the cor bet dif rel ins .
hen the are for to pro a pur pro - ral app , whe the res of dif cla ste or alg are com wit a uni pri .
in clu , the emp so far has bee on dya dat , suc as wor - doc co - occ ( hof and puz , 123 ) , doc cit ( coh and cha , 123 ) , web lin ( coh and hof , 123 kle , 123 ) , and gen exp dat .
kle hub and aut al - gor exp the lin str to den a mut rei - for rel bet hub and aut pag , whe a goo hub pag poi to man goo aut and a goo aut pag is poi to by man goo hub .
the tec can be vie as rel clu met for one or two typ of ins ( e . g . , web pag , doc and wor ) , wit a sin rel bet the ( e . g . , hyp , wor occ ) .
how , we wou lik to mod ric str pre in man rea wor dom wit mul typ of ins and com rel bet the .
for exa , in a mov dat the ins typ mig be mov , act , dir , and pro .
in - sta of the sam typ may als be dir rel .
in a sci pap dat , a pap is des by its set of wor and its rel to the pap it cit ( as wel as to the aut who wro it ) .
we wou lik to ide , for eac in - sta typ , sub - pop ( or seg ) of ins tha are sim in bot the att and the rel to oth
in thi pap , we pro a gen cla of gen pro mod for cla and clu in rel - tio dat .
the key to our app is the use of a sin pro mod for the ent dat tha cap int - act bet ins in the dom .
our wor bui on the fra of pro rel mod ( prm ) of kol and pfe ( 123 ) tha ext bay net to a rel set .
prm pro a lan tha all us to cap pro dep bet rel ins in a coh way .
in par , we use it to all dep - den bet the cla var of rel ins , pro - vid a pri mec for pro inf
lik all gen pro mod , our mod ac - com the ent spe bet pur sup cla and pur uns clu .
thu , we can lea fro dat whe som ins hav a cla lab and oth do not .
we can als dea wit cas whe one ( or mor ) of the ins typ doe not hav an obs cla att by int a new lat cla var to rep - sen the ( uno ) clu .
not tha , in rel mod - els , it is oft imp to seg the dat int a tra and tes set tha are ind of eac oth sin the tra - ing and tes ins may be int .
usi nai ran sam to sel tra ins is ver lik to sev lin bet ins in the tra and tes set dat .
we cir thi dif by usi a tra lea set , whe we use the tes dat , alb wit the lab , in the tra pha .
hen , eve if all the ins typ hav obs cla att , the tra pha inv lea wit lat var .
we pro an app em alg for lea suc prm wit lat var fro a rel dat .
thi tas is qui com : our mod ind a com web of dep bet the lat var of all of the ent in the dat , ren sta app int .
we pro an efc app alg tha sca lin - ear wit the num of ins , and thu can be app to lar dat set .
we pre exp res for our app on two dom : a dat of sci pap and aut and a dat of mov , act and dir .
our cla exp sho tha the rel inf pro a sub boo in acc .
app to a clu tas , we sho tha our met are abl to exp the rel str and nd coh clu eve for ins typ tha do not hav any att .
123 gen mod for rel dat pro cla and clu are oft vie fro a gen per as a den est tas .
dat ins are ass to be ind and ide - cal dis ( iid ) sam fro a mix mod dis - in clu , a lat cla ran var is ass wit the ins to ind its clu .
oth att of an ins are the ass to be sam
but .
eac ins bel to exa one of
fro a dis ass wit its cla .
a sim yet pow mod oft use for thi dis is the nai in the nai bay mod , the att of eac ins are ass to be con ind giv the cla var .
alt thi ind as - sum is oft unr , thi mod has nev pro to be rob and eff for cla and clu - ter acr a wid ran of app ( dud et al . , 123 che and stu , 123 ) .
bot cla and clu - ing inv est of the par of the nai bay mod how , clu is sig mor dif due to the pre of lat var .
the iid ass mad by the sta cla and clu mod is ina in ric rel do - mai , whe dif ins are rel to eac oth , and are the lik to be cor .
in thi sec , we des a pro mod for cla and clu - ing in rel dom , whe ent are rel to eac oth .
our con uti the fra of pro - bil rel mod ( prm ) ( kol and pfe , 123 fri et al . , 123 ) .
123 pro rel mod a prm is a tem for a pro dis ove a re - lat dat of a giv sch .
it spe pro mod for dif cla of ent , inc pro - tic dep bet rel obj .
giv a set of in - sta and rel bet the , a prm den a joi pro dis ove the att of the ins .
rel sch .
a rel sch des at -
is ass wit a set of at - is als ass wit a set
tri and rel of a set of ins typ
eac typ .
eac typ of typ bin rel rel wit the typ to use the rel as a set - val fun , who val is the set of ins " ! rel to an ins exa , for an act # , #
rol is the set of mov in whi
we ass eac
of its rst arg , all us
the act has app .
in cer cas , rel mig hav att of the own .
for exa , the rol rel mig be ass wit the att cre - ord , whi ind the ran of the act in the cre .
we can int an exp typ cor to the rel .
in thi cas , a rel obj is its rel to bot of its arg .
for exa , if one of the rol obj is mer str in sop cho , thi rol obj wou be rel to the act obj mer str and the mov obj sop cho .
by den , the rel are man - to - one .
it wil be use to dis be -
% ) , and rel
spe the set of obj in eac typ , the rel tha hol bet the , and the val of the to den the
twe ent typ ( suc as $&% ( ' * ) , +& - or . / +12 ( 123 typ ( suc as 123 att for all of the obj .
a ske 123
the obj and the rel .
we wil use 123 set of obj of typ pro mod .
a pro rel mod : 123 of the rel sch .
mor pre , a prm is a tem -
spe a pro dis ove a set of ins
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
fig 123 : ( a ) mod for imd dom ( b ) mod for cor dom ( c ) fra of unr net for cor mod .
pla , whi is ins for dif ske 123
the re - sul of thi ins is a pro mod ove a set of ran var cor to all of the att of all of the obj in the ske .
we can vie a prm as a com - pac way of rep a bay net for any ske ove thi sch .
a prm con of a qua dep str , and the par ass wit it , str is den by ass wit eac att
set of par pa
the dep has the for
( prm als all
dep alo cha of rel , but we hav cho to omi tho for sim of pre . )
eac par of
for a giv ske 123 rol bay net ove the ran var ent of the for the dep of
, the prm str ind an un - dep pro on par - is not sin - is act a set of ran var , one .
we add thi pro by int as dep on an ag - gre fun ( e . g . , mod or mea ) of the mul of val of the var ( see bel ) .
not tha if
whe one
the qua par of the prm spe the par - zat of the mod .
giv a set of par for an att , we can den a loc pro mod by ass wit it a con pro dis ( cpd ) .
for eac att
the cpd rep the dep on the val of the agg - in the unr net -
we hav a cpd tha spe of the par is of the for
the cpd for
wor , for eve
is use for .
thu , the cpd for
man tim in the net .
agg .
the are man pos cho of agg - gat ope to all dep on a set of var .
an obv cho for cat var is the mod ag - gre , whi com the mos com val of its par -
let the dom of eac
mor pre , con som var who par - we wis to agg int a sin
agg is as fol : we den a dis
for eac ; giv a mul of val for for the val whi is the mos
has the sam dom .
the eff of the mod
, we use
com in thi mul .
the mod agg is not ver sen to the dis - tio of val of its par for exa , it can dif - ent bet a hig ske and a fai uni set of val tha hav the sam mos fre val .
an agg - gat tha bet ree the val dis is a sto mod agg .
in thi cas , we sti den a set of dis -
, but the eff of the agg is tha
is a wei ave of the dis - is the fre of thi val .
we acc thi beh by usi
tio , whe the wei of
an agg var den as fol .
the agg var als tak on val -
tha tak on the val
the des eff .
be the num of var
the we den
it is eas to ver tha thi agg has exa
we not tha thi agg can als be vie as a ran - dom sel nod tha cho one of its par uni - for at ran and tak on its val .
one app con - seq is tha , lik min or max , the sto mod can be dec to all its rep as a cpd to sca lin - ear wit the num of par .
we sim dec the agg in a cas bin tre .
the rst lay com agg of dis pai , wit eac agg ran sel the val of one of its par the fol lay rep the pro for dis pai of res fro the rst lay , and so on .
( thi con can als be ext to
omi det for lac of spa . )
cas whe the num of var is not a pow of # ; we 123 cla and clu mod we use the prm fra as the bas of our mod for rel cla and clu .
as in the at pro - abi gen app , our app is bas on the use of a spe var to rep the cla or the clu .
thi var is the sta cla var in the cla - cat tas .
as usu , we dea wit the clu tas by int a new lat cla var .
thu , for eac ent
as in at cla and clu , we den the at - to dep on the cla var .
for sim , we cho the nai bay dep mod for the oth
cla we hav a des att att : for eac att
, the onl par of
not tha we hav onl den cla att for ent typ .
we con the att of rel typ to the cla att of the two ass ent typ .
thu , for exa , an att suc as cre - ord in the rel
% wil dep on the cla att of
not tha , as the dep in thi cas is sin -
val by den , no agg are nec .
mos in - ter , we als all dir dep bet cla att of rel ent .
thu , for exa , we cou al - , or vic ver .
in thi cas , as the rel is man - to - man , we use agg , as des abo .
low a dep of . / +12 ( 123
123 ( a ) sho a sim mod for a mov dat , ext fro the int mov dat ( imd ) ( www . imd . com ) .
we see tha rol is bot a cla on its own , as wel as den the rel bet mov and act .
we hav cho , in thi cas , not to hav the att
cre - ord dep on the cla of mov , but onl of act .
123 ( b ) sho a mod for a dom of sci pap and aut , der fro the cor dat ( mcc - lum et al . , 123 ) ( cor . whi . com ) .
in thi cas , we see tha the cit rel con two obj of the sam typ .
we hav cho to mak the cla att of the cit pap dep on the cla att of the cit pap .
not tha thi dep app cyc at the typ lev .
how , rec tha thi mod is onl a tem , whi is ins for par ske to pro an unr net fig .
123 ( c ) sho a fra of suc a net .
if we do not hav cit cyc in the dom , the thi un - rol net is acy , and the prm ind a coh pro mod ove the ran var of the ske .
( see ( fri et al . , 123 ) for mor det . )
we can als use lat var mod to rep dya clu .
con , for exa , a dom whe we hav peo and mov , and a rel bet the tha cor - res to a per rat a mov .
in thi cas , we wil hav a cla tri rat rep the act rat giv .
thi at -
% , cor to the rel , wit the at - tri wil dep on the clu att of bot . / +12 ( 123 and $&% ( ' * ) , +& - , lea nat to a two - sid clu mod .
how , our app is exi eno to acc a muc ric mod , e . g . , whe we als hav oth att of per , and per an ent rel mod for mov , suc as sho in fig .
our app wil tak all of thi inf int con whe con the clu -
123 lea the mod we now sho how we lea our mod fro dat .
our tra - con of a par ins of the sch , one whe eve exc the val of som or all the cla att is giv .
we can vie thi dat as a sin lar meg - ins of the mod , wit a lar num of mis - ing val .
not tha we can vie the dat as a set of ind - pen ins cor to the obj in the mod .
in our set , we typ ass tha the str of our lat var mod is giv , as des in sec 123 .
thu , our tas is par est .
123 par est in thi cas , we ass tha we are giv the pro de - , and nee onl est the par , i . e . , the cpd of the att .
a sta app is to
use max lik ( ml ) est , i . e . , to nd if we had a com ins 123
, the lik fun - tio has a uni glo max .
the max lik par can be fou ver eas sim by cou oc - cur in the dat .
rec tha all of the obj in the sam cla sha the sam cpd .
thu , to est the par for
, we sim con all obj of cla
, and cou the num of tim tha eac com 123
and its par joi tak .
the cou are kno as suf sta .
see ( fri et al . , 123 ) for det .
the cas of inc dat is sub mor com - in thi cas , the lik fun has mul lo - cal max , and no gen met exi for ndi the glo max .
the exp max ( em ) al - gor ( dem et al . , 123 ) , pro an app for ndi a loc max of the lik fun .
sta -
for the par , em ite
the fol two ste .
the e - ste com the dis ove the uno var giv the obs dat and the be the set of
ing fro an ini gue cur est of the par .
let uno clu var , we com
fro whi it can com the exp suf sta :
to com the pos dis ove the hid var - abl , we mus run inf ove the mod .
the m - ste re - est the par by max the lik wit res to the dis com in the e - ste .
123 bel pro for e ste to per the e ste , we nee to com the pos dis - tri ove the uno var giv our dat .
thi inf is ove the unr net den in sec 123 .
we can dec thi tas int sep inf tas ove the obj in the mod , as the are all cor .
( in som cas , the unr net may hav sev con com tha can be tre sep how , it wil gen con one or mor lar con com . ) in gen , the unr net can be fai com , in - vol man obj tha are rel in var way .
our exp , the net inv ten of tho of nod . ) exa inf ove the net is cle im - pra , so we mus res to app inf .
the is a wid var of app sch for bay net - wor .
for var rea ( som of whi are des be - low ) , we cho to use bel pro .
bel pro - tio ( bp ) is a loc mes pas alg int by pea ( pea , 123 ) .
it is gua to con to the cor - rec mar pro for eac nod onl for sin con - nec bay net .
how , emp res ( mur - phy and wei , 123 ) sho tha it oft con in gen
net , and whe it doe , the mar are a goo app - ima to the cor pos .
( whe bp doe not con - ver , the mar for som nod can be ver ina .
thi hap ver rar in our exp and doe not af - fec con of em . )
a fam gra , wit a nod
cpd i . e . , if
for eac var
we pro a bri out of one var of bp , ref to ( mur and wei , 123 ) for mor det .
con a bay net ove som set of nod ( whi in our cas wou be the var ) .
we rst con the gra int
and its par .
two nod are con if the hav som var in com .
the cpd of
rep the fac den by the
, , the is a fun fro the dom of the var to tha enc our is not obs
the bel pro alg is now ver sim .
at eac ite , all the fam nod sim sen mes - sag to all oth , as fol :
con the var to be a fac ove
, we hav tha
our pos dis is the is a nor con .
is a ( dif ) nor con and
in the fam gra .
set of fam tha are nei of at any poi in the alg , our mar dis abo
thi pro is rep unt the bel con .
giv us the mar dis - tio ove eac of the fam in the unr net .
the mar are pre wha we nee for the com of the exp suf sta .
aft con , the
we not tha occ bp doe not con to all - via thi pro , we sta the em alg fro sev dif sta poi ( ini gue ) .
as our res in sec 123 sho , thi app wor wel in pra .
123 inu pro ove rel amo the str mot for usi a rel mod is its abi to mod dep bet rel ins .
as des in the int , we wou lik to pro inf abo one obj to hel us rea con abo oth , rel obj .
rec , sev pap hav pro a pro alo the lin of thi inu pro - aga ide .
nev and jen ( 123 ) pro an ite - tiv cla alg whi bui a cla bas on a ful obs rel tra set the cla use bot bas att and mor rel att ( e . g . , the num of rel ent of a giv typ ) .
it the use thi cla on a tes set whe the bas att are obs , but the cla var are not .
tho ins tha are cla - sie wit hig con are tem lab wit the pre cla the cla alg is the rer , wit the add inf .
the pro rep sev tim .
the cla acc is sho to imp sub as the pro ite .
sla and mit ( 123 ) pro an app of thi ide to the pro of cla web pag , e . g . , as bel - ing to a uni stu or not .
the rst tra a cla on a set of lab doc , and use it to cla doc - men in the tes set .
to cla mor doc in the tes set , the sug com the cla of the tes set pag and the rel str of the tes set .
as a mot - vat exa , the des a sce whe the exi a pag tha poi to sev oth pag , som of whi wer cla as stu hom pag .
the app tri to ide - tif thi pag as a stu dir pag , and con tha oth pag to whi it poi are als mor lik to be stu - den pag .
the sho tha cla acc imp by exp the rel str .
nei of the app pro a sin coh mod of the dep bet rel obj and thu com dif cla ste or alg wit a uni pri .
our app ach the inu pro - aga eff thr the pro inu ind by the unr bay net ove the ins in our do - mai .
for exa , in the cor dom , our net mod cor bet the top of pap tha cit eac oth .
thu , our bel abo the top of one pap wil inu our bel abo the top of its rel pap .
in gen , pro inu ows thr act pat in the un - rol net , all bel abo one clu to inu oth to whi it is rel ( dir or ind ) .
mor , the use of bel pro imp thi eff dir .
by pro a loc mes fro one fam to ano in the fam gra net , the alg pro our bel abo one var to oth var to whi it is di - rec con .
we dem thi pro in the nex
thi spr inu is par use in our fra - wor due to the app of the em alg .
the em alg con a seq of mod , usi the pro - bil der fro the bel pro alg to tra a new mod .
hen , we not onl use our pro in - fer pro to spr the inf in the rel str , we the use the res to con a bet cla - sie , whi in tur all us to obt eve bet res , etc .
fro a dif per , we are usi the str in the tes set not onl to pro bet cla , but als to lea a bet cla .
as we sho bel , thi pro - ces res in sub imp in acc ove the ite of em .
we not tha thi boo abi ari ver nat in the pro fra , whe it is als ass wit com con gua .
we eva our met on the cor and imd dat set .
the str of the cor dat , and the mod we use , are sho in fig .
123 ( b , c ) .
for our exp , we sel a sub of 123 pap fro the mac lea - ing cat , alo wit 123 of the aut .
the pap are cla int sev top : pro met , neu - ral net , rei lea , rul lea , cas - bas , and the .
aut & cit ( ac ) nav bay ( nb )
fig 123 : ( a ) com of cla acc ( b ) inu pro in bp; ( c ) acc imp in em .
we eva the abi of our alg to use the rel - tio str to aid in cla .
we too our ent dat set , and hid the cla for all but a fra of the pap .
we the con our mod bas on all of thi dat , inc the doc who top wer uno - ser .
the res mod was use to cla the top for the tes doc .
in eff , we are per a typ of tra , whe the tes set is als use to tra the mod ( alb wit the cla lab ) .
to inv how our met ben fro exp the rel str , we con fou dif mod - els whi var in the amo of rel inf the use .
the bas mod doe not use rel inf at all .
it is a sta mul nai bay mod ( nb ) ove the set of wor ( bag of wor mod ) in the abs .
the ful mod ( ac ) was sho in fig .
123 ( b ) ; it mak use of bot the aut and cit .
the oth two mod are fra of ac : mod a inc onl the aut inf - mat ( eli the cit rel fro the mod ) , and mod c onl cit .
all fou mod wer tra usi em; mod nb was tra usi exa em and the oth usi our alg of sec 123
we ini the cpd for the wor att usi the cpd in a nai bay mod tha was tra onl on the obs por of the dat set .
all mod wer ini wit the sam cpd .
we var the per of lab pap , ran fro 123 to 123 .
for eac dif per , we tes the cla acc ove ve ran tra / tes spl .
the res are sho in fig .
eac poi is the ave of the acc on the ve run , and the err bar cor to the sta err .
as can be see , inc mor rel dep sig imp cla acc .
bot a and c out the bas mod , and the com mod ac ach by far the hig acc .
the loc mes pas of loo bel pro ( bp ) res the pro of spr the inu of bel for a par ins to
as dis in sec 123 ,
era lab pap .
upo ini , we hav som ini fro its wor alo .
how , aft the rst ite , thi bel wil be upd to ree the lab of the pap it cit , and is lik to bec mor
its rel ins .
for exa , sup pap cit sev - bel abo the top of pea aro a sin val , inc the con in s
in the fol ite , unl pap tha cit ( as wel as unl pap tha cit ) wil be upd to ree the inc con abo the top of
, and so on .
to mea thi eff , we exa the bel sta of the top var of the unl pap aft eve ite of loo bel pro .
for eve ite , we rep the fra of var who top can be det wit hig con , i . e . , who bel for a sin top is abo a .
123 ( b ) sho sev ser of the mea - sur on a dat wit 123 lab pap .
the ser sho bp ite per wit the rst , thi and sev - ent ite of em .
eac ser sho a gra inc of the fra of pap who top we are con in .
the acc on tho hig - con pap is fai con ove the ite aro 123 , 123 , and 123 for the rst , thi and sev ite of em , res .
loo bel pro is an app to the inf - enc req for the e ste of em .
alt loo bp is not gua to con , in our exp , it gen con to a sol whi is goo eno to all em to mak pro .
ind , fig .
123 ( c ) sho tha the cla - cat acc imp for eve em ite .
thi g - ure als dem the per imp obt fro boo the res of ite cla , as dis in sec 123
the att and rel in the imd dat , and the lat var mod we use , are sho in are sho in fig .
123 ( a ) ; the gen att act ref to a set of 123 bin att ( act , com , .
not tha act and dir hav alm no des att and hen can - not be clu mea wit con the rel - tio .
we sel a sub of thi dat tha con 123 mov , 123 act , and 123 dir .
in fig .
123 , we sho two exa clu for eac cla , lis sev hig con mem of the clu .
in gen , clu for mov con of mov of pre - dom of a par gen , tim per and pop .
for exa , the rst mov clu sho can be lab as cla mus and chi lms .
the sec clu cor - res rou to act / adv / sci - mov .
mod , the clu for act and dir are rel in nat , sin the are ind by the mov att .
for exa , the rst clu of act con pri of act
ack .
thi wor was sup by onr con n12 - 123 - c - 123 und dar hpk pro - gra .
era seg was als sup by a sta gra
