in thi pap , we des an app for und tra reg fro bot gen exp and pro seq dat .
we aim to ide tra mod of gen tha are co - reg in a set of exp , thr a com mot pro .
usi the em alg , our app ren bot the mod ass and the mot pro so as to bes exp the exp dat as a fun of tra mot .
it als dyn add and del mot , as req to pro a gen - wid exp of the exp dat .
we eva the met on two sac cer gen exp dat set , sho tha our app is bet tha a sta one at rec kno mot and at gen bio coh mod .
we als com our res wit bin loc dat to obt reg rel wit kno tra fac , and sho tha man of the inf rel hav sup in the lit .
key : pro mod , gen exp , tra -
man cel pro are reg at the tra lev , by one or mor tra fac tha bin to sho dna seq mot in the ups reg of the pro gen .
the co - reg gen the exh sim - ila pat of exp .
giv the ups reg of all gen , and mea of the exp und var - iou con , we cou hop to rev eng the und reg mec and ide tra - tio mod of gen tha are co - reg und the con thr a com mot or com
in thi pap , we tak a gen - wid app for dis - cov thi mod org , bas on the pre
to who cor sho be add .
tha tra ele sho exp the obs exp pat as muc as pos .
we den a pro - abi gra mod ( pea , 123 ) tha int bot the gen exp mea and the dna seq dat int a uni mod .
the mod ass tha gen are par int mod , whi det the gen exp pro .
eac mod is cha by a mo - tif pro , whi spe the rel of dif se - que mot to the mod .
a gen mod ass is a fun of the seq mot in its pro re - gio .
how , our mod doe not ass tha all mot are nec act .
in fac , as mot are usu sho , the are man gen whe a mot is ran pre but doe not pla a rol .
fur , our goa is to dis - cov mot tha pla a reg rol in som par set of exp a mot tha is act in som set may be com irr in oth .
our mod ide - es mot tar whe the mot pla an act rol in aff reg in a par exp dat set .
the mot tar are gen tha hav the mot and tha are ass to mod con the mot in the
our alg is out in fig 123
it beg by clu the exp dat , cre one mod fro eac of the res clu .
as the rst att tow exp the exp pat , it sea for a com mot in the ups reg of gen ass to the sam mod .
it the ite ren the mod , try to opt the ext to whi the exp pro can be pre tra .
for exa , we mig wan to mov a gen g who pro reg doe not mat its cur mod mot pro , to ano mod who exp pro is sti a goo mat , and who mot pro is muc clo .
giv the ass , we cou the lea bet mot mod and mot pro for eac mod .
thi ren pro ari nat wit our alg , as a byp of the exp max ( em ) alg for est the mod par .
bio 123 ( sup .
123 ) c ( cid : 123 ) oxf uni pre 123 all rig res .
e . seg et al .
tra mod dis pro
gen ann ( go )
vis & ana
sch ow dia of our pro met .
the pre - pro ste inc sel the inp gen exp and ups seq dat .
the mod is the tra usi em , and our alg for dyn add and del mot .
it is the eva on add dat set .
in gen , the mot lea wil not suf to cha - act all of the mod .
as our goa is to pro a gen - wid exp of the exp beh , our alg ide poo exp gen in mod and sea for new mot in the ups reg .
the new mot are the add to the mod and sub ren usi em .
as par of thi dyn lea pro , som mot may bec obs and are rem fro the mod .
the alg ite unt con , add and del mot , and ren mot mod and mod ass .
our alg has sev imp adv ove oth att to rel ups seq and exp - sio dat .
fir , we use bot exp and seq dat tog , req tha mod dis a coh pro for bot .
thi app all us to ren bot the clu ass and mot wit the sam alg .
in con , man app ( e . g .
bra et al . , 123 liu et al . , 123 rot et al . , 123 sin and tom , 123 tav et al . , 123 ) use gen exp mea - sur to den clu of gen tha are pot co - reg , and the sea for com mot in the ups reg of the gen in eac clu .
the exp ana and mot ndi are thu dec , and nei the clu nor the mot are re - eva onc the are lea .
oth app ( e . g .
bus et al . , 123 pil et al . , 123 ) wor in the opp dir , rst ide a set of can mot , and the try to exp the exp usi the mot .
the app use a pre set of mot , whi are nev ada dur the alg .
our app is bas on the fra of seg et al .
( 123 ) but ext it in sev imp dir .
the app mad use of dna loc dat , whi are not wid ava for all org and und mul gro con .
in con , we con mod tha are bas sol on seq and exp dat , whi are muc eas to obt .
sec , the app use a pre num of mot to con the mod .
to all a gen - wid ana , our alg dyn rem and add mot as nee to exp the exp dat as a who .
fin , whi the mod of seg et al .
( 123 ) all for det of con - spe reg , the res str is har to int .
our mod ass eac gen to one mod ,
we tes our met on two dis sac cer exp dat .
we sho tha our lea mod nd mot tha acc for a muc lar fra - tio of the obs exp pat in com to sta app tha rst clu the exp pro - les and the sea for mot in the ups reg of the gen in eac clu .
our app als rec a muc lar num of kno mot .
we eva the fun coh of our tra mod us - ing a gen fun ann dat and two pro - tei com dat tha wer not giv to the mod as inp .
we fou enr for man mor gro in our mod com to sta app , sug tha our tra mod are bio mor ac - cur .
fin , we use the rec bin ass of lee et al .
( 123 ) to rel the act tra fac to the mod the reg , res in a reg net we sho tha man of the reg rel dis - ere hav sup in the lit .
the bas ent in our mod are the gen in som set g .
wea tha the gen are par int a set of k mut exc and exh tra mod .
thu , eac gen is ass wit an att m ( 123 , .
, k ) who val rep the mod to whi the gen bel .
we now des how the mod are rel to exp pro and to mot
gen exp mod for eac gen g in g , we hav exp mea g . e12 , .
, g . e j , whe g . e j rep the log rat mrn exp lev mea for gen g in exp j .
wea tha all of the gen in a sin mod exh the sam gen exp beh , and use the sim yet pow nai bay mod ( che and stu , 123 ) to rep thi beh .
in thi mod , as app in our set , we ass tha the exp mea are con ind giv the mod ass :
p ( e12 , .
, e j | m ) = j ( cid : 123 )
p ( e j | m ) .
as the exp mea are rea - val , we mod eac con pro dis p ( e j m = m ) usi a gau dis n ( jm; jm ) .
mot mod the sec key com in our mod is a set of var tha rep the reg of the gen by mot .
for eac gen g , we hav a set of bin - val reg var r = ( r12 , .
, rl ) , whe g . ri tak the val tru if mot i app in the pro reg of gen g , all the mot to pla a reg rol in the gen exp .
we mod the mot usi a sta pos spe sco mat ( pss bai and elk , 123 rot et al . , 123 ) , whi ass a wei to eac pos in the mot and eac nuc ( cid : 123 ) ( a , c , g , t ) ; thi wei rep the ext to whi the nuc pre in thi pos is ass wit the mot .
we use the dis pss app of seg et al .
( 123 ) , whi tra the pss wei to dis as muc as pos bet the pre and the abs of the mot .
thi app pro bet pre , and ent avo the pro ari fro hig - fre but mea mot tha are com in man ups seq .
thi mod is spe usi a sta bin log mod .
we hav p pos - spe wei w j ( ( cid : 123 ) ) , one for eac pos j and eac let ( cid : 123 ) ( a , c , g , t ) , and a thr w12
for a pro seq of len n , wea tha bin occ onc , and wit equ pro at eac of the n p + 123 pos pos in the seq .
the pro
gen - wid dis of tra mod
r |g . s )
p ( g . r |g . s )
p ( g . e | g . m )
ill of our uni pro mod , for a sim exa wit ups reg of len thr , mot , thr pos mod ass and thr exp mea for eac gen
of bin giv the seq is the spe sim as : p ( g . r = tru | s12 , .
, sn ) =
n p + 123
reg mod we den the mot pro of a tra mod to be a set of wei umi , one for eac mot , suc tha umi spe the ext to whi mot i pla a reg rol in mod m .
rou spe , the str of the ass of a gen g wit a i=1 g . ri umi .
the str the ass mod m is of a gen wit a mod , the mor lik it is to be ass to it .
we mod thi usi a sof con dis , a sta ext of the bin log con dis to the mul - cla cas :
p ( g . m = m | r12 = r12 , .
, rl = rl ) =
i=1 u mir )
i=1 um ( cid : 123 ) iri ) .
as we exp a mot to be act in reg onl a sma set of mod in a giv set , we lim the num of wei u12 , .
, u k i tha are non - zer to som h ( cid : 123 ) k .
thi res res in a spa wei mat for p ( m | r ) , and ens tha eac reg aff at mos h mod .
in add , for int con , we req all wei to be non - neg .
int , thi mea tha a gen ass to spe tra mod can onl dep on fea tha cor to the pre of cer mot and not on the abs of mot .
for a mod m , the set of mot umi tha are non - zer are cal the mot pro of m .
e . seg et al .
uni mod the thr com , are put tog as a pro gra mod , as sho in fig 123 the mod den the fol joi dis :
p ( g . ri | g . s ) p ( g . m | g . r ) j ( cid : 123 )
p ( g . r , g . m , g . e | g . s ) =
p ( g . ej | g . m ) ,
whe eac of the abo con pro dis - tio is par as des in the pre sec -
lea the mod in the pre sec , we pre our pro mod .
we now tur to the tas of lea thi mod fro dat .
our dat set d con of a set of gen g , whe for eac gen g g we hav a set of gen exp mea g . e j for j = 123 , .
, j and a dna seq g . s in the ups reg of the tra sta sit for g .
for thi sec , we res att to a xed num of mot , and add the pro of est the mod par to t the dat .
the mod par to be est are : the mea and var of the nor dis of the exp mod , the sof wei and str of the mod ass ( i . e .
whi seq mot eac mod dep on ) , and the pss wei for eac seq mot .
we fol the sta app of max lik est : we nd the par tha max p ( d | ) .
our lea tas is mad con mor dif by the fac tha bot the mod ass g . m and the reg var g . r are uno in the tra dat .
in thi cas , the lik fun has mul loc max , and no gen met exi for ndi the glo max .
we thu use the exp max ( em ) alg ( dem et al . , 123 ) , whi pro an app for ndi a loc max of the lik fun .
sta fro an ini gue ( 123 ) for the par , em ite the fol two ste .
the e - ste com the dis ove the uno var giv the obs dat and the cur est of the par .
we use the har ass ver of the em alg , whe thi dis is use to sel a lik com of the hid var .
the m - ste the re - est the par by max the lik wit res to the com com in the e - ste .
thi est tas dif for the dif par of the mod .
e - ste : inf mod and reg our tas in the e - ste is to com the dis ove the uno dat , whi in our set mea com p ( g . m , g . r | g . e , g . s ) .
asg are ass to be ind ,
thi com can be don sep for eac gen .
how , alt the sof dis for p ( g . m | g . r ) has a com par , inf usi thi dis is sti exp in the num of reg var .
eve if onl a sma num of the var is ass wit any sin mod , for the pur of mod ass we nee to con all of the var ass wit any mod thi num can be qui lar , ren exa inf int .
we dev a sim app alg for doi thi com , whi is par wel - sui for our set .
it exp our exp tha , whi a lar num of seq mot det mod ass , onl a sma num of mot reg a par tra mod .
con , giv the mod ass for a gen , we exp a sma num of reg var for tha gen to tak the val tru .
our app alg the sea gre for a sma num of reg var to act for eac mod ass .
for eac gen g , itc eve pos mod ass m , and nds a goo ass to the reg var giv tha g . m = m .
thi ass is con in a gre way , by set g . r var to tru one at a tim , as lon as p ( g . m , g . r , g . e | g . s ) imp .
the joi set for g . m and g . r whi giv the ove bes lik is the sel as the ( app ) mos lik ass .
for the rem of thi sec , let g .
m and g . r12 , .
, g . rl rep the val sel for g . m and g . r12 , .
, g . rl res by the e - ste .
ful det of the alg are giv in fig 123 .
m - ste : exp mod giv the ass of gen to mod as com in the e - ste , the max lik set for the par of the exp mod gau dis has a clo for sol .
let nm be the num of gen ass to mod m , we hav tha the mea and var of the gau for exp j giv mod ass m are
gg : g
m j = 123
gg : g
the mot mod
m - ste : mot mod we wan be a goo pre of the ass r to the reg - ula var com in the e - ste .
thu , eac ri , wea to nd the val of the par w12 , w j ( ( cid : 123 ) ) tha max the con log pro - | g . s12 , .
, g . sn ) .
unf , thi opt pro has no clo for sol ,
gg log p ( g . ri
gen - wid dis of tra mod
for eac gen g g set g . m = 123 set g . ri = fal for 123 i l set p = p ( g . m , g . r | g . s , g . e ) for m = 123 to k / / for all mod rep / / fin g . ri tha inc p set pbe = p for i = 123 to l / / for all reg var set g . ri = tru ( cid : 123 ) = p ( g . m = m , g . r | g . s , g . e ) ( cid : 123 ) > p set g . m = m set p = p set g . ri = fal
unt pbe = p
set u = ( ) set ite = 123 let v = ( vmi ) 123 , 123 set max = max sco ( v ) / / max = sco of unc t set t = thr for clo to max set ite = ite + 123 ( cid : 123 ) = ( u ( cid : 123 ) = arg ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( u / / opt wei not in u; wei in u xed for i = 123 to l / / for all reg var let m = arg ( u set u = u ) / / add new non - zer wei set u = arg ( u , 123 ) / / reo wei in u; oth wei = 123 unt ite = max ite or sco ( u ) >= max t
) 123 , 123 u
( cid : 123 ) = u = 123 for 123 m k
for i = 123 to l / / for all reg var if sco ( u ) sco ( u set u = u
for m = 123 to k / / for all mod let g ( cid : 123 ) = ( ) for eac g s . t .
m = m set g . r ( cid : 123 ) = arg p ( g . r | g . s ) set g ( cid : 123 ) = g ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( g ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) = m lea mot wit pos set g ( cid : 123 ) add new reg var wit lea pss
( cid : 123 ) = arg p ( g . m = m | g . r = g . r ( cid : 123 ) )
( a ) sea pro for e - ste of em .
( b ) lea the sof dis for p ( g . m | g . r ) in the m - ste .
( c ) pro for dyn del and add reg var .
in ( b ) and ( c ) , u den the non - zer wei of pu ( g . m | g . r ) , and
gg log pu ( g .
m | g . r ) .
and the are man loc max .
we the use a con gra asc to nd a loc opt in the par spa .
con gra sta fro an ini gue of the wei ( cid : 123 ) w ( 123 ) .
asf all loc hil cli met , the qua of the sta poi has a hug imp on the qua of the loc opt fou by the alg .
we the ini the wei usi the met of bar et al .
( 123 ) , whi efc gen mot see of len 123 and the sco the usi the hyp sig tes .
eac see pro by thi met is the exp to pro a pss of the des len , who wei ser as an ini poi for the con gra pro .
m - ste : reg mod fin , we con the tas of est the par for the dis p ( g . m | g . r ) .
our goa is to nd a set for the sof wei ( umi ) 123 , 123 so as to max the con log gg log p ( g . m = g .
m | g . r = g . r ) .
alt thi opt doe not hav a clo for sol , the fun is con in the wei of the sof .
thu , a uni glo max exi , whi we can nd usi gra asc .
how , as we dis in the pre sec , we als con thi wei mat to be spa and eac wei to be non - neg .
the con lea to mor des mod , but als tur our tas int a har com opt pro .
we use a gre sel alg , tha tri to inc non - zer wei for the mos pre mot for eac reg var ri .
the alg , sho in fig 123 , rst nds the opt set to the ful wei mat as we dis , the opt set can be fou usi gra asc .
for eac var ri , itt sel the mos pre mot one who wei is lar add it to the
mot pro u , whi con mot tha hav non - zer wei .
the opt set for the wei in u is the fou by opt the wei , und the con tha eac wei in u is non - neg and the wei not in u mus be zer .
thi pro is als con , and can be sol usi gra met .
the alg the con to sea for add mot to inc in the pro u .
itn the opt set to all wei whi hol the wei in u xed it the sel the hig wei mot not in u , add the to u , and rep .
wei are add to u unt the spa lim is rea , or unt the add of mot to u doe not imp the ove sco .
dyn add and rem in the pre sec , we sho how to opt the mod par giv a xed set of mot .
we now wis to dev a dyn lea alg , cap of bot rem and add seq mot as par of the lea pro .
as we lea the mod , som mot may not tur out to be pre , or red giv the new dis mot .
con , som mod may not be wel exp by seq mot , so tha new mot sho be add .
we add and rem mot aft eac com of the em alg .
( not tha em its ite sev tim bet the e - ste and the m - ste . ) to det whe ri sho be del , we com the con log gg log p ( g . m | g . r ) bot wit and wit lea the val of oth reg var xed .
thi com tel us the con tha ri mak tow the ove t of the mod .
var tha con bel a cer thr are sub rem fro the mod .
e . seg et al .
we try to add mot whe the cur set of mot doe not pro a sat exp of the exp dat : whe the are gen for whi the seq pre do not mat the exp pro .
we den the res for a tra mod m to be the set of gen tha are ass to mod m in the e - ste , but wou not be ass to m bas on the seq alo .
we det the seq - onl ass of eac gen
( cid : 123 ) = arg p ( g . r | g . s )
( cid : 123 ) = arg p ( g . m = m | g . r = g . r
we the att to pro a bet pre for the res gen by add a seq mot tha is tra to mat the gen .
onc a new reg var is add , it bec par of the mod and its ass and par is ada as par of the nex em ite , as des in the pre sec .
thi pro tes whe a new mot con to the ove mod t , and may ass it a non - zer wei .
imp , a mot tha was tra for the res of one mod oft get non - zer wei for oth mod as wel , all the sam mot to par in mul mod .
ful det of the alg are giv in fig 123 .
mod lea we eva our met sep on two dif s . cer gen exp dat , one con of 123 mic , mea the res to var str con ( gas et al . , 123 ) , and ano con of 123 mic , mea exp dur cel cyc ( spe et al . , 123 ) .
we als obt the 123 ups reg of eac gen ( seq wer ret fro sgd ( che et al . , 123 ) ) .
the em alg req an ini set to all pa - ram .
we use the sta pro for lea mo - tif fro exp dat to ini the mod par - ter : we rst clu the exp pro , res in a par of gen to clu , and the lea a mot for eac of the res clu .
for clu the exp - sio , we use the pro hie clu alg - rit of seg et al .
( 123 ) .
for lea mot , we use the mot nde des abo .
to spe the ini pa - ram of our mod , we tre the clu and mot as if the wer the res of an e - ste , ass a val to all of the var g . m and g . r , and lea the mod par as des abo .
for the str dat , we use 123 gen whi sho a sig cha in exp , exc mem of the gen str res clu ( gas et al . , 123 ) .
cel cyc mod
num of gen who mod ass can be cor pre bas on seq alo , whe a cor pre is one tha mat the mod ass whe the exp is inc .
pre are sho for eac ite of the lea
we ini 123 mod usi sta clu , and lea the ass 123 seq mot .
fro thi sta poi , the alg con aft 123 ite , of an em ste and a mot add / del ste , res in a tot of 123 mot .
for the cel cyc dat , we lea a mod wit 123 clu ove the 123 cel cyc gen den in ( spe et al . , 123 ) .
the alg con aft 123 ite , end wit 123 mot .
pre exp fro seq our app aim to exp exp dat as a fun of seq mot .
hen , one met for eva a mod is its abi to ass gen wit mod bas on the pro seq alo .
spe , we com the mod ass of eac gen whe we con onl the seq dat to its mod ass con bot exp and seq dat .
fig 123 sho the tot num of gen who exp - bas mod ass is cor pre usi onl the seq , as the alg pro and seq mot are add .
as can be see , the pre imp acr the lea ite , and sig out the sta app ( whi is ite 123 ) .
ult , our mod con to 123 and 123 gen cor pre in the cel cyc and str mod , res , com to 123 and 123 for the sta app .
gen exp coh the res ind tha our mod ass gen to mod suc tha gen ass to the sam mod are gen enr for the sam mot .
how , we can ach suc an org - niz by sim ass gen to mod bas onl on the seq , whi ent ign the exp dat .
to ver the qua of our mod rel to gen exp dat , we den the exp coh of a mod to be the ave pea cor bet eac pai of gen ass to it , whe the pea
exp coh ( sta clu )
exp coh ( sta clu )
gen - wid dis of tra mod
- log ( pva ) for sta clu
- log ( pva ) for sta clu
- log ( pva ) for sta clu
- log ( pva ) for sta clu
com of sta clu and the pro met .
( a ) ( c ) are for the cel cyc dat ( spe et al . , 123 ) and ( d ) ( f ) are for the str exp dat ( gas et al . , 123 ) .
( a ) , ( d ) com of the exp coh for eac inf mod ( or clu in the sta clu mod ) .
( b ) , ( e ) com of enr of the tar of eac mot for fun ann fro the go dat .
for eac ann , the lar neg log p - val obt fro ana the tar of all mot is sho .
( c ) , ( f ) com of enr of the tar of eac mot for pro com .
for eac pro com , sho is the lar neg log p - val obt fro any of the mot .
pea ( gi . e , g j . e ) = 123
( gi . el i )
( g j . el j )
whe i , i are the mea and sta dev of the ent in gi . e .
fig 123 , d com the exp coh of our mod to tho bui fro sta clu for the cel cyc and str dat , sho ide coh of exp pro .
for the cel inc in the coh of the exp pro for our mod .
thu , our mod res in clu tha are mor enr for mot , whi ach the sam qua of exp pat as sta clu whi onl tri to opt the exp sco .
the was eve a sli
coh of mot tar as we dis , the mot pro cha a mod all us to den a not of mot tar tha con the mot , and whe the mot pla a rol in its exp pro , i . e
ass to a mod who mot pro con the mot .
in the sta clu mod , we can den the tar of a mot to be tho gen tha hav the mot and bel to the clu fro whi the mot was lea .
we tes whe our mot tar cor to fun gro , by mea the enr for gen in the sam fun cat acc to the gen ann dat of go ( ash et al . , 123 ) .
we use onl go cat wit 123 or mor gen ass wit the , res in 123 cat .
for eac ann and eac mot , we com the fra of gen in the tar of tha mot ass wit tha ann and use the hyp dis to cal a p - val for thi fra , and too p - val < 123 to be sig .
we com , for bot exp dat set , the enr of the mot tar for go ann bet our mod and sta clu .
we fou man ann tha wer enr in bot mod .
how , the wer 123 and 123 ann tha wer sig enr in our cel cyc and str
e . seg et al .
mod , res , tha wer not enr at all in the sta clu mod , com to onl 123 and 123 cat onl enr in the sta clu mod for the res mod .
amo tho cat enr onl in our mod wer car cat , cel wal org and gal met , all of whi are pro kno to be act in res to var str con tha we can now cha by seq mot .
a ful com of the go enr for bot dat is sho in fig 123 , e .
sin fun cat do not nec cor - res to co - reg gro , we als tes the enr of our mot tar for pro com , as com exp in the ass of gav et al .
( 123 ) and ho et al .
( 123 ) , con of 123 and 123 com , res .
the mem gen of pro com are oft co - reg and we thu exp to nd enr for the in our mot tar .
we ass eac gen wit the com it is ass to in eac pro com dat and com the p - val of the enr of the tar of eac mot for eac com , as we did abo for the go ann - tio .
the res for the cel cyc and str dat are sum in fig 123 , f , sho muc gre enr of our mot tar tha the tar of the mot ide usi the sta app , wit 123 and 123 com sig enr onl in our mod , and no com onl enr in the sta app , for the str and cel cyc mod , res .
mot and mot pro we com the mot we ide to mot fro the lit .
of the 123 mot lea for the str mod , 123 are kno , com to onl 123 kno mot lea usi the sta app .
for the cel cyc mod , 123 of the 123 lea mot are kno , com to onl 123 kno mot lea usi the sta app .
man of the kno mot ide , suc as the str ele str , the hea sho mot hsf and the cel cyc mot mcm , are als kno to be act in the res dat .
a pow fea of our app is its abi to cha mod by mot pro .
thi abi is par imp for hig euk , in whi reg oft occ thr mul dis mot .
to ill the mot pro fou by our app , we fou for eac mot all mod enr for the pre of tha mot .
thi was don by ass eac gen wit the mot in its ups reg , and the com the p - val of the enr of the mem gen of eac mod .
fig 123 sho all the mod - mot pai in whi the mod was enr for the mot wit p - val <12 .
in add , the gur ind ( by red cir ) all pai in whi the mot app in the mod mot pro .
as can be see , man of pro con mul
mot , and man mot wer use by mor tha one mod .
eve tho mod sha mot , eac mod is cha by a uni com of mot .
ide the act mo - inf reg net tif is a sig ste tow und the reg - tor mec gov gen exp .
how , we wou als wan to kno the ide of the tra fac ( tf ) mol tha bin to the seq mot .
we use the dna bin ass of lee et al .
( 123 ) , tha dir det to whi pro reg a par tf bin in viv , and ass tfs wit the mot we lea .
for eac mot , we com the fra , amo the mot tar , of gen bou by eac tf , as mea in the dat of lee et al .
we use the hyp dis - but to ass a p - val to eac suc fra and too p - val <12 to be sig .
ins of the sig - can ass sho tha , in mos cas , the was a uni mot tha was sig for the tf and tha a hig fra ( >12 ) of the tfs bin tar wer amo the mot tar gen .
bas on thi str ass bet tfs and mot , for eac suc tf - mot pai , we pre tha the tf reg all the mod tha are cha by the mot .
by com all ass , we arr at the reg net sho in fig 123 .
of the 123 tra fac mea in lee et al . , 123 enr in the tar of at lea one mot and wer thu add to the res net .
of the 123 mod , 123 wer ass wit at lea one tf .
to val the qua of the net , we sea the bio lit and com a lis of exp ver tar for eac of the 123 tfs in our net .
we the mar eac ass bet a tf and a mod as sup if the mod con at lea one gen tha the tf is kno to reg fro bio exp .
as cur kno is lim , the are ver few kno tar for mos tfs .
nev , we fou sup for 123 of the 123 ass .
we als com the p - val for eac sup ass bet a tf and a mod , usi the bin dis wit pro of suc p = t / n , whe k is the tot num of kno tar for the tf and n is the tot num of gen ( 123 ) .
the p - val is the p ( x ( cid : 123 ) | x b ( p , n ) ) , whe ( cid : 123 ) is the tot num of kno tar of the reg in the sup mod and n is the num of gen in the sup mod .
the res p - val are sho in fig 123 by edg thi and col .
we ass a nam to eac mod bas on a con sum of its gen con ( com fro bot gen ann and lit ) .
the reg net thu con pre for the pro reg by eac tf , whe for eac ass the pre inc the mot thr whi the reg occ .
in man
gen - wid dis of tra mod
123 gly ( 123 ) 123 red reg ( 123 ) 123 mix i ( 123 ) 123 pro fol ( 123 ) 123 chr rem ( 123 ) 123 ene and tca cyc ( 123 ) 123 oxi pho ( 123 ) 123 unk i ( 123 ) 123 nit met ( 123 ) 123 cel cyc ( 123 ) 123 pro fol ( 123 ) 123 erg bio ( 123 ) 123 suc met ( 123 ) 123 tra ( 123 ) 123 hea sho ( 123 ) 123 phe res ( 123 ) 123 tra ( 123 ) 123 ald met ( 123 ) 123 gal met ( 123 ) 123 ami aci met ( 123 )
( a ) mat of mot vs .
mod for the str dat , whe a mod - mot ent is col if the mem gen of tha mod wer enr for tha mot wit p - val <12 .
the int cor to the fra of gen in the mod tha had the mot .
ent in the mod mot pro are cir in red .
mod wer ass nam bas on a sum of the gen con .
( b ) reg net inf fro our mod usi the dna bin ass of lee et al . .
ova cor to tra fac and rec to mod ( see ( a ) for mod nam ) .
cas , our app rec coh bio pro - ces alo wit the kno reg .
exa of suc ass inc : hap , the kno act of oxi pho , wit the oxi pho - ryl mod ( 123 ) ; gcr , a kno pos reg of gly , wit the gly mod ( 123 ) ; mig , a glu rep , wit the gal met mod ( 123 ) ; ste , inv in reg of phe pat , wit the phe res mod ( 123 ) ; and met , a pos reg of sul ami aci met , wit the ami aci met mod ( 123 ) .
we pre a uni pro mod ove bot gen exp and seq dat , who goa is to ide tra mod and the reg mot bin sit tha con the reg wit a giv set of ex - per .
our res ind tha our met dis mod tha are bot hig coh in the exp pro and sig enr for com mot bin - ing sit in ups reg of gen ass to the sam mod .
a com to the com app of con - str clu bas onl on exp and the lea - ing a mot for eac clu sho tha our met rec mod tha hav a muc hig cor to ext - nal bio kno of gen ann and pro
