ng he lt ze of ex es at ve on on ul - le es nd he in of al ns is a lt ut al sk in se ry ng .
it es in st - ed ry za - on , ry ng , nd te ry ng .
in is er , we ow ow ic al ls an be ly ed or is sk as an te nd ct on of he nt cy is - on of le es ss le ns .
ic re - al ls ( ms ) re a nt nt at ds al al ls ch as an ks to al ns .
ey nt he al es en es in a le , nd en es ss gn - ey ns .
we de an nt go - hm or ng a rm om a se , nd ow ow a rm an be ed to te ty es or a ad ss of es .
ne of he or ns of is rk is a ed rk or he es - on of es ng th ct nd gn - ey in ns .
re , ur ch is ot ed to ng a ll et of re - ed s; a le el an be ed to ly te he es of a de on of al es ss le es .
we nt ts or ur ch on al al - ld es .
or th le - le ti - te es nd a al ss of ct - in es , ur ch es re te es an rd es to ty on , ng le ce nd me .
te es of he lt ze of es re al to ev - al ry ng ts of a se nt ys - em ( ms ) .
st - ed ry rs se te lt ze es to se he al ry on an .
ry rs de ck to a ms er ng he ry de - gn se by ng ce on nd on of ry ts .
se ty es so ow nt ad ng or el in on or ms .
ty es an so be ed to ly er ng ( ag -
he lt ze of a on ry er le es is de - ed by he nt cy on of he es of se es .
he nt on es he es of ll
on to ke al or rd es of ll or rt of is rk or al or om se is ed ut ee ed at es re ot de or ed or ot or al ge nd at es ar is ce nd he ll on on he st ge .
to py se , to sh , to st on rs or to te to ts , es or ic on nd / or a ee .
cm od 23 ay 23 - 23 , ta ra , ia , sa ht 23 cm 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 / 23 / 23 . . . 23 .
ns of te es , so ng it ly es le as he er of es nd es es .
st al ms te he nt on by ng al ey s; se ns ow st on of ty es , ut , as ny ve ed , he es an be ry te .
he st on on is he te ue ce on , er ch he ns of al es re nt of ch er nd he nt on is he od - ct of le - te ns .
er , al ta en on - in ng ns en es at te is mp - on , ng to ry te ns .
or le a en - us se ht in ly ed es ch as in - me nd me - er .
he te ue ce mp - on ld ad to an te of he lt ze of a ry at ks or ow - me me - rs .
a nd on on is he in ty mp - on , ch es at a le om ne on is ly ly to in th ny le om he nd on .
in , re re ny ns in ch is on is ed .
or am - le , me at ur us se as a nd le or ne es .
gh - me ls ly ke re ne es an ge .
re , a le in he es le is re ly to in th a le of a gh - me al , by ng he in ty on .
if we er a ry or es by gh - me ls , an on re at es he in ty on is ly to ly te he ry ze .
to ax se ns , we ed a re ed ch , at es to on he nt on er le at - es , er an he ns er he es in la - on .
al es to nt on on , so ed to as ta on , ve en ed y; ee ( 23 ) or an nt ry of is ea .
st of is rk as fo - ed on he sk of ng he ty of a ct on he ct ty in a le le .
ne le ap - ch or ng he ry ze is ia om ng .
re , a et of es is ed , nd en he ry lt ze is ed by ng he al ry lt ze ve to he ed ta .
er , he nt of ta ed or te on an be te ge .
re ly , al es ve en ed at pt to re he nt on er es re ly .
he st of se is he di - al am ch of la nd is ( 23 , 23 ) .
ey de an ve on of he my of ds or ng al ms nd dy he ec - ss of nt es .
ey so se an ch ed on ar ue on , le ly in he wo -
al se .
a er ch is he se of ts to ap - te he ng nt on ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ch ss rk as en ne on ng he ty of ns .
al ss ly ke he rm in as - on .
ne ch at as en ed is ed on an - om ng : ly le he wo es , nd te ir in .
is ch is ed in al ys ( 23 ) , nd me rk as en ed to ve es at te es in a re ed ay ( 23 ) .
an ve nt ch is he rk of ya et al .
( 23 ) on in es , ch ns cs or a ew ed ns .
to ur ge , no rk as en ne on es at rt ty on or es ng th ct nd in ns in al - ld do -
in is er , we se an ve ch or he ec - ty on em , ed on es om he ea of ic al ls ( 23 , 23 ) .
as we ll ow , ur ap - ch as al nt es .
st , it es a ni - rm rk or ct ty on nd gn - ey in ty on , ng a ic od or es - ng he ze of es ng th rs .
nd , ur ch is ot ed to ng a ll et of ed s; a le al el an be ed to ly ti - te he es of ny ( ct gn - ey in ) ry , er ny et of es nd es in he se .
ic al ls re a ge or ly ep - ng ex nt ns er gh - al es .
ey re ed on a al on at es al ce en es in he on .
al ce es en wo es re ed , ut he in - on is ed ia ne or re er es .
or am - le , in a us se , on is ed th me , nd me - er us is ed th me .
ce , on is ed th me - er us , ut ly ly ia he in - me el .
ns of is pe re ly on in al ns .
ic al ls it he al in - es at st in a in , nd by ow us to fy nt ns er gh al es ly .
in is er , we de a rk or ng ic al ls to te ty of es in a al se .
as we ow , an ks ( ns ) ( 23 ) an be ed to nt he ns en es in a le le , ro - ng gh - ty es of he nt on er he at - es in at le .
ic al ls ( ms ) ( 23 ) 23 nd an ks to he al ng .
as we ow , ms ow us to nt ew in he in es en es , as ll as ns en es of es ed ia a gn - ey .
ey by ow us to te ty of es ng th ts nd ns er le es .
ke st ty on ms , ur hm on - ts of wo es .
he ne se , in ch he rm is on - ed om he se .
is ss is ic , ed ly on he ta nd he ce ed to he al el .
he nd , ne se , is he ty on or a ar ry .
he ty or es as ut a ry nd a rm , nd ts an te or he lt ze of he ry .
te at he me rm is ed to te he ze of a ry er ny et of he es in he e; we re ot ed to ve or on ut he ry ad .
he rm ic al ls as wo ry ct gs in wo nt es : he ic ng ty ( 23 ) nd he se ty ( 23 , 23 ) .
we se he rm in ts er se .
ut is er , we ke wo nt ns .
he st is at gn ys ey al ty .
is on ut he se is ed in he on of he rm .
he nd is at ll ns re ty ns en a gn ey nd a ry ey .
is on is de ly or se of en - on .
le es th gn - ey ns nd to et st om he ic ls at we se , ur ds re ot ed to ng th se es nd we be ow to nd ur ch to a er ss of ns in on 23
he er of he er is ed as ws .
in on 23 , we er he se of ty on or ct ns er a le le .
we ne an ks , nd ow ow ey an be ed to te he nt on er he en - re et of es in he le .
in on 23 , we ve to he re ex se of es er le es .
we nt he rm rk , ch es an ks to he al se , nd ow ow we an se ms to sh th ct nd in ty on in a le rk .
in on 23 , we nt an hm or ly ng a rm om a al se .
in on 23 , we de al on of ur ch , nd re it to me of he st on ex - ng es .
we nt ts er al al - ld ns , ng at ur ch es ch er cu - cy ( in a en nt of ce ) an us es , at a ry le al st , th ne nd ne .
on or le es
we st er ng he lt ze or ct es er a le on .
or st of is on , we ct on to ns re he er of es or ch te is ly ll ( up to ut 23 ) , nd to es th ty es of he rm te = ue .
er of se ns is a un - al on of ur h; at he nd of is on , we ss ow ur ch an be ed to ns th er te ue es nd to ge es .
al th he ed cy on
be me e; we se . * to te he ue ( on - ey ) .
we te he nt cy ri - .
it is nt to
, nd en ct as he es of
is on ws us to at as a ob - ty on .
we an so ew is nt on as ed by an ry ss , re we le a le ng ss ed to ne ly ng it as a ay of ng
( te at we re ot ng at he am - be ed ut in ce .
we re
ow , er a ry . * , ch is a on of ns of he rm #$ be he nt at he es in he ze of he lt of he ry
er a et of es
it is ar at
is he er of es ng he ty , ve to ' .
to fy on , we ll en ly se .
as he ze of he on is wn , he nt ty on ns ll he ry on or ry ze on .
ce , we us on on he nt ty on .
, of he t# $
ly , he er of es in is nt on ws ly in he er of es , so at ly
ng he nt on is st ys le .
al es ve en ed to nt is ue by ng he nt on ( or ns of it ) ng a re ct re ( 23 , 23 ) .
we so se he se of is - al ls at te he ll nt on .
er in er to nt he on in a ct er , we it he al ce at en ds in a nt on er al - ld ta .
by ng he on of a nt on to rs at re he es at ld in he in , we et a ct on or he on .
23 al ce er a le on th he ng ee ue at - es , ch th ts ue in wn in es : ca - on ( gh - ol , ge , ed - ee ) , me ( ow , um , gh ) , nd me - er ( se , ue ) .
as nd , we ll se he st er in ch of se es to te he te , ng al rs or he es nd er se rs or ar to te a ty ri - es of he es .
we se on er he le es of te he ty of he nt
me at he nt on of te es in a se is as wn in ig .
ng is nt on , we an om - te he ty of ny ry er .
as nd , we ll se
to te a ct ry of he rm
er , to ly nt he nt on we ed to re 23 um - rs , ne or ch le on of es or he es .
( in ct , we an et ay th 23 rs se we ow at he es in he nt on st um to 23 )
en e$
in ny es , er , ur ta ll it a in re at ws us to ( ly ) nt he on ng a ch re ct rm .
he on is at me of he la - ns en es ht be ct es , ed by er es .
or le , he ct of on on ng a me ht be ed by me : a gh - ol ut ho ns a ul et up is re ly to wn a me an a ly ed ch um he me is he nt or , ot he on .
is on is ed by he nt at me - er is ly nt of on en
, we ve at :
me , i . e . , or ry ns of es
is on ds or he on of ig
he al ce on ws us to nt he nt on re ly in a ed rm .
er , we ll nt : he al is - ; a al on of in - on er on ; nd a al on me en on of me - er en me .
it is sy to fy at is on ns ll of he on in he ig - al nt on , if he al ce on
re he st ty ws om he al ce .
in ur le , he nt on an be ed ng he ee es wn in ig .
it is sy to fy at ey do de ly he me nt on as in ig
he ge nt or he ed on ms to
, as re .
in ct , if we nt or he ct
at me of he rs re nt se he rs
st dd up to 23 , we et ! ! " #$ , as ed to he &% we ad in he ll nt .
le he gs in is se ay
ot em ly ve , he gs ow ly as he er of es es , as ng as he er of ct es ns ed .
te at he al ce on is ry if - nt om he rd te ce on .
in is se , or le , he ne - al ms ( i . e . , al ns ) or he ee es re wn in ig .
it is sy to ee at he nt on at we ld in om he te ce on in is se is ry nt om he ue ng nt on .
it is so nt to te at ur al ce on is le th he ng on at ts en me - er nd on in is on .
us , al ce is a ch er nd re le on an rd ( al )
23 an ks
an ks ( 23 ) re ct al ns or gh - al nt ns .
ey it he he un - ng re of he in he ct at ly a ew ts of he in ct ch er ly .
we ne ur il - ty ce as he et of le ts to he et of es .
ns an ly nt a nt
by ng a re at es al es ng es , by ng an - ge of he ty of ic es .
of a on
a an rk '
ts of wo ts .
he st , is a ed ic ph se es nd .
he es in he ph te a di - to he es
ct ce of an te al re es a et of al ce as - ns : ch de is ly nt of ts on - ts en ts ts .
on ts ts ts
23 ( a ) ws a an rk ed ( ly ) om ta ed om he 23 nt on ey of u . s .
us au ng ir ta on em ( 23 ) .
in is se , he le ns 23 es : ge , er - ss , ca - on , al - us , ry , ce , ex , ld - rt , er , en , me , nd nt - pe .
he in es or he es re , ly : 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , nd 23
we ee , or le , at he en te ( ng er or ot re re en in he ld ) ds on er at - es ly ia he es me , ge , nd al - us .
us , en is ly nt of ll er es en me , ge , nd al - us .
he nd nt of a bn es he al on - it ts of a di - ip en ch de nd ts ts .
al ty on ( pd ) ch te , ch es he on er he es of en ny le nt of es to ts ts .
is pd ay be ed in a er of ys .
it ay be re - ed as a le , as in ur er le .
ly , it an be ed as a ee , re he or es nt ts , nd he es in ri - on he ue of me nt of .
in is on , we nd he ns er he es of al on er en a ar ce of al -
or ts ts by ng he te th in he ee wn to a af : en we er a it on me le 23 , we go wn he ch nd - ng to he ue of 23 ; we en se he on ed at at
h m f c m f a m f
re 23 : ( a ) he nt ty on or a le le .
( b ) a on of he nt on at ts al ce .
( c ) he le - te ty ms .
* ' ' 23 23
$ , 23 / 23 " +
% *+ %
re 23 : ( a ) a an rk or he us in .
( b ) a ee - ed pd or he en de en ts ts me , ge nd al - us .
he pd ee or he en te in he rk of ig .
23 ( a ) is wn in ig .
he le es or is at - te re n / a , es nd no .
we an ee , or le , at he k ! k , nd on er en en me j ; he ri -
n , nd al - us on en me j , ge m , as is he on en me j n , nd al - us
he al ce ns ed th he , er th he ds ed th he es , ly ne a nt ty on er he es ia he
ns ad to he me ed th wn he ee .
ed : he wo an -
, ge m
, ge m
( is la is ly us to he ne we ed in eq .
( 23 ) or ur le le om on 23 . ) us , om ur ct el , we an er he nt n; we do ot ed to nt it ly .
in ur le ve , he er of es in he ll nt on is ly 23 on , le he er of rs in ur bn is 3a nt on !
23 ns or ry on
ur al ce ns nd to ty ts on he nt on in he se le .
in al , of se , se es ll ly ld ly .
in ct , en if he ta as ed by ly ng om am - es om a on at es he al ce ( or en al ce ) ns , he on ed om he es in ur ta ll ot fy se as - ns .
er , in ny es we an te he is - on ry ll ng a an rk th he te re .
we er a er on of is ue to on 23
a an rk is a ct on of a ll nt on .
ce , it ly ns he er to ny ry ut he ty of ny nt of es to a et of at - an ly se it to te me at ur ry ( re we te a al ct ng or on ) .
en we an om -
es .
us , if we ct a bn '
as he rm
or ny ry
of se , ng he ll nt on
) an be om -
ly ry ve , nd is st ys le in he me ng in ch ry ze is ly ed .
us , we ed a re nt hm or ng gh he em of ng is ty is np - rd in he st se , bn ce is ly ry nt or rk es ed in ce .
he rd bn ce al - ms ( 23 ) se al - se ph - ed ms at ex - it he al re of he rk .
he ty of se ms ds on in al rs ng to he ty of he ph .
se rs re ly ll or st al - ld ls , ng ry ve ce or ny ks th ds of es or re ( 23 , 23 ) .
at he rt of is on , we de al ns .
we ow be ow to ax se ns .
st , we de he on at ur ct ns ed ly ty es .
it is rd to nd he es at we ve st de - ed or ng he ty of an nt of es to a et of es to le ge es by ng he ob - ty at an nt of es to he es ls in at ge .
we ly um er ll al ue ts is - ng he ge ts .
le at st ce , is ay nd te ve , he bn ce ms ed ve an be ly ed to te se es ut ny se in al ty .
he nd nt on at we ve en ng is at he ns or he es re ll to ly ed .
we an ft is on on ur ns by ng es at ve en ed or on of in es ( 23 , 23 ) .
in es re in es re ot al , we an se re es if ey re le ( 23 ) or we ay se ny of a er of ng ms .
ce we ve lt a bn er he ed or ed te ue ce , we st ow fy ur ry on es to de es or es er he se el es .
ne od or ng is is to ly te he ty te or an ct ry , ch ps he se el es to ir te ed or ed ue , nd to en te an te or he se el ry by ng a rm on in he lt .
in ty on
in he us on , we ed on to es er a le le .
in is on , we nd ur ch to al th es er le es .
we ct on to es at - ng al ty : et be a or - gn ey in or ry le .
ut is er , we ct on to gn .
we ll se he rm
at rs to me le th ry ey l
re st be me le
be a le , nd et
ey ns ns of he rm in as a nd or is pe of in .
23 ng wo es
er a al se th wo es : nt , in - ng is ( tb ) ts , nd ct , ng le th om a nt as ad ct , nd ho ay or ay ot be in - ed th he se .
we ht be ed in ng es ng a in en se wo es .
or le , we ht be ed in he ng ry : nt . ge = 3+ nd on - ct . nt = nt . nt - id nd ct . pe = te , i . e . , ng ll ts se ge is er 23 ho ve ad ct th a te .
a le ch to is em ld ed as ws : by al ty , ch le in ct st in th ly ne le in .
re , he ze of he ed on ,
or to he ts , is .
we en te he ty
of nt . ge = 3+ nd he ty te , nd te he ze of he ng ry as
of ct . pe =
is ve ch is ed in wo ys .
st , he es of he wo nt es re en ed .
in al , or - gn ys re en ed to ct es in nt es at re ly ed , nd ce he es of es ed gh gn ey ns re en ed .
or le , re is a ar on en he ge of he nt nd he pe of ts ey e; in ct , ly ts th es re te re , nd is ve ch ld te ir er .
nd , he ty at wo es in th ch er an so be ed th us es .
or le , le - ed ts ly ve re ts an er pa - ts .
us , le he in ze of se wo es , or to he on on nt ge , is , he on of he ed tu - es re he nt is er 23 is er an he ll on of ts er 23 in he nt le .
we ss se es by ng a re te el of he nt on of se wo es .
er wo es .
we ne a nt ty nd ng an ry ng ss at an - nd ly es a le ly es a le .
he wo es ay or ay ot in th ch er .
we ce a ew in or le to el is nt
, is ry d; it is ue en
er he es of he in or
is ng ss es a on , nd he ue es .
ow , er
( re in we te a al ct ng
ny ct - in ry
or on ) .
it is sy to to ee at he ze of he lt of
in er ds , we an te he ze of ny ry of is rm ng he nt on ed ng ur ng ss .
as we ow ow , an on of he es in on 23 ow us to te is nt on ng a ic al 23 ic al ls
ic al ls ( ms ) ( 23 ) nd an et - ks to he al ng .
ey ow us to el ns ot ly en es of he me le , ut so en es of ed es in nt es .
is on is ac - ed by ng , as a nt of an te , an at - as a gn ey or .
we an so ow es on es in ns at re ed to ia a er in of s; to fy he on , we it he on .
a rm or ur tb in is wn in ig .
re , or le , we ve at he pe of he ct ds on he ge nd er of he nt .
in er on
on 23 . : a ic al el ( rm )
or a al se is a ir ic el or ch of he ng es :
or ch le nd ch te
, ch es a al
. * a le
re 23 : ( a ) a rm or he is in .
( b ) a ry - on bn or tb in nd he in ry
, a an in or
es ot be a on er a le le in on .
he ty on of an te an nd on ts at re es in er , gn - ey ed es .
we re ed to ne a nt ty on er a le ll es on ch it ds .
to ee at he et of es we st er is te , we ce a on on on ur rm ls .
on 23 . : et d be a al ng er he es in ur se .
we ay at a gn ey nt th d ts a al ng d we an ow ne he al on to a ry
is ( le ) ed if re is a nt
a rm ch at er
is a gn ey to ) , en
at ts to
be a in ry er he le es or ay ot er to he me es ) .
on 23 . : et
ng wo ns :
be a in ry .
we ne he up - to be he al ry at es he
e ns ll of he in ns in 23
or ch
, if re is an te
, en re is a ue le le
e ns he in
le le g
om he ct , en
we an ct he rd re or ny ry nd at is et in he tb in is er a is te .
or le , if ur ry is er he ee le le le er in .
te at re is no ct ce of es of ct on es of in , ut re re en - es on nt , nd he on of he le le rn es he on of he le le .
te at , if we er a in ry
is a le le er nt nd
ih at dy ns a le ri -
h is al to he re of
le th he nt g . nt =
. nt - id , en he re ; i . e . , he ss ll ot ro - ce a ew le le if a ng ne is dy nt .
we an nd he on of rd re to ct - in es in he us ay : he ct es re ot nt to he on of rd re .
rd ng a ry es ot ge ts lt ze :
on 23 . : et
be a ry nd et
re .
en e$
fe be ts rd
or ch gn ey
or ch le of he rm es a et of ts ts as he rm to me le nd .
es a pd
, re ch nt is a gn ey of is an te of ;
to nd on
on an te is ed to
is rk ws a ic ce of an te .
is pe of ce ly es se ia me gn ey ce : ur rm ls a on re re en ly at m; re is no on or ir es to be ed ss ey re ow ed .
ce , we in he rm el to .
re ly , we re at if be a nt of ed or es re e; in er ds , in he pd is at he ot of he ee , nd ly he rk in te at he in or le so as ts nd a pd .
er he rm or ur tb in .
he in or le ch es er he in is ue in he on or as ed in re an ne nt .
re re ly ee es : or a on - ue in nd a nt at as rn de
in as he ts nt . rn nd in . ue ,
we so re at he pd of
is a nt of
ue is ul .
on - ue in nd a nt rn in he u . s .
he ty is
he u . s . , he ty at ey ll in is nd n ty is n
; or a , ly ee es as e; or a ue in , he ob - n ! n ! o , ss of he ts ce of th
we re ch re ly to ve u . s . - rn ts ng to on - ue ns an gn - rn es .
( he on is at gn - rn ts en te to he u . s .
dy ed th he e; ch ts ly ve a ue in us to ir on .
u . s . - rn ts , on he er nd , re ch re ly to ct he se by ng it om ne al , nd re ll ar in on rs . ) 23 ty on ng ms
we ow sh to be he ip en a rm el nd he se .
in he se of ns , he on as ht - is an on to he cy bu - .
in he se of ms , he ue is re le , as a rm
rd : he bn ' cb
is lt ws ly om al ty .
be a in ry , nd et be he le es in
e be ts rd re
he on ed by ng ch le , he rm ly .
en or ny ry , ly he ty ed ws us to te or ng he ry ty .
we an te he rm es - te ng he ng le on :
h ch ds
fe ts at
on 23 . : et , nd et be an in ry .
we ne he ry - on an
be a rm er '
( to be a bn as ws :
it as a de it so as a de / or ry le ed in ts is a nt of is a nt of
or ry se , he de
fe nd te as he ts ec - is a nt of is a nt of is he ue le le
is as ed in
/ he pd of or le , ig .
23 ( b ) ws he ry on bn or he ly ed in ry we an ow se is an rk to te he iv - ty of ny ry .
er a ct - in ry ds he in ry
es ) , nd te he ty of ( in - id ) .
in ty , we nt ed to ct a bn er ll he es in he re es ed nd ir rs in ' 23
rm on
or le , to te he ty of he . ge = 3+ , we ld se he bn in ig .
23 ( b ) ( as it rd
is lf ( as ve ) , nd #
we an te
; it is nt to de ly he at -
ih ch ex -
, re #
. ge = 3+ ,
he us wo ns ed ow we an rm ry ze on ce we ve a rm at es he nt al ns in he ta on .
is on ad - es he on of ow to ct ch a el ti - ly om he al se .
ny of he as in is on re le ns of us rk on he ic : he rk on ng an ks om ta ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) nd he nt on of is ng rk to ms ( 23 ) .
in he on hm , ur al is to nd a rm
he ut to he on hm ts of wo ts : a al ma , at es he ic ry in he in he et of es , he es ed th ch of he es , nd he le gn ey ns en s; nd he se lf , ch es he al es ed in ch le .
at st ts he es in he ta .
in er to ro - de a al on or is sk , we st ed to ne an te on of st .
en is on , he hm ll ry to nd he el at es it .
re re wo ts to ur on em .
he er on em or a en cy re re on em ds he cy re th he al ce of rs , es he al re , ct to ur ce ts on he el .
23 ng on
ds st er et .
to de a al on of el ty , we ke se of ic ts om on ry ( 23 ) .
he ty of a
el an be ed by he nt to ch it es he ta .
in er ds , if we ad he el , ow ny ts ld be ed , ng an al ng , to nt he ta .
he re ve he el , he er ts re ed to de
it is ll wn at he al on ng of a ta et , en he el , es a er of ts ch is he ve hm of he ty of he ta en he el .
in er ds , we ne he re of a el ng he ng
we an re te he el on sk as at of ng he el at as um og - od en he ta .
we te at is on is nt om se ed in he an - rd ns of ng ic ls om ta ( 23 ) .
in he er es , we ly se a ng on at es ff t to ta th el ty .
is ff ws us to id ng he ng ta oo ly , by ng ur il - ty to ct en ta .
in is se , ur al is ry nt : we do ot nt to ze to ew ta , ut ly to ze he ns in he ng ta .
is ce in us is at es ur ce of ng on .
23 er on
we in by ng he er on sk or a en cy re .
in er ds , ng ed a de - at es he et of ts or ch at ze it .
he er on sk is a ey ne in he re ec - on ep : to te he re or a re , we st st am - ze it .
in er ds , he st ng el is he re se st on as he st re .
te , we st ll in he rs .
be ts ts in
a en re in he ta .
re ly , er me te
it is ll - wn at he st od on or is he ne at ly es he es .
ur el ns a er .
he um od ue or is er is in he on of
is er ts he al ty ly he ve cy of
nd ch nt of es
or ch ue of
he es , or ts , ed in is on re ed uf - nt cs in he al ng re .
is on is ry le in he se re he te nd ts ts re in he me le .
or le , to te he pd ed th he nt . er te in ur tb el , we ly te a nt nd up - by ry on er nd iv , ch es us he ts or ll le es of se wo at - es .
se ts ly ve us he nt cs in th he or nd or of he re pd .
is on es a ar an of he ta .
he se re me of he ts of an te ar in a nt le is ly ly re ex .
ll at we ct es en es to se at ze gn - ey ns .
in er ds , we an ve
or a gn ey us , to te he pd or ly ed to te a gn - ey in en en se he me pe of nt nd up - by ry er he lt .
in ch is so he ry ey of
at ds on
or le , in ur tb el , ct . ge as he ts on - ct . pe nd ct . nt . ge .
to te he nt cs , we ly in nt nd ct on nt . nt - ct . nt , nd en up nd nt ly .
we ve ed is is or he se re .
er , he on ly on a le gn te ly ds to es on le te , ly in nt es .
we ly do ll of he ry gn - ey ns , te a le lt le er nd ll of ts ts , nd te he nt cs .
le is ss ht ar ve at st ce , it an be ed ry ly .
ll at we re ly ng de - es ia gn - ey ns .
ng at on er th ur al ty on , we ow at ch le .
us , he er of es ll in th ly a le le in he ng in is ly he ze of .
he me va - on ds en as ts in le es .
ng at we ve a od ng re on ys ( e . g . , a sh ex ) , he st of ng he in ns is re ar in he ze it ns to be he on of he pd or a in .
in is se , we st te he ba - ty at a om le .
he ty of he in nt an nd on es of es in , e . g . , on he ue of .
in ur tb in , he in or en pa - nt nd in ds on rn in he nt le nd on ue in he in le .
to te he nt is - , we ed to te he al er
of es re he st is ly
ly , is on is so sy .
he er is
, ch an be ed by ng he wo es nd en ng a nt nd up - by ry .
he st of is on ( ng an te ex re ) is in ar in he er of es in 23 re on
, nd en he er in
nd a om le
ur nd sk is he re on sk : ng he en - cy re at es he st og - od re .
he em re is ng he st cy re ng he ly ny le es . 23 is is a al on em , nd ne ch is wn to be np - rd ( 23 ) .
we re de an hm at ds a od cy re ng le ic s; te he ct at he al cy re is ot ed to be ed , he hm ss ms ry ll in ce .
23 . 23 ng ed
he og - od on an be ed in a ay at th es he el on sk nd ws ts ct to be re ly od .
we st re he ng ic ni -
er me nt on
on 23 . : et he al on of
if we ve cy es is
er ir on .
we an ne
nd be wo ts of es , nd
if we ve le es , he
on is ly re ed , se ot ll en - es en es in nt es re al .
es in a le le , he er of le
he rm de he on is he hm of he ve er -
nd an on to it
nt , ut ns he ty of ch ne .
he re on is ly a ed ge of is ve or er he on , re he ts re he es of he .
it is ly ar at al on is ea - .
if ey re nt , en he al on is ro .
se , he al on is ys ve .
he er he re - on , he er he al on .
re ed in
er a ar re
ur is in he us on es he al ce ( in ms of od ) or pa - be he on in he se , as ve .
we an ow mu - te he og - od re in ms of al on :
to te is et of rs
is a nt at es ot nd on he ce of uc - re .
us , he ll re of a re es as a um , re ch nt is al to an te nd ts ts .
he al re ds ly on he al on en a de nd ts ts in he re .
us , ur ng on rs es re an te is ly ed th ts
ng he nt to ch .
we se . # "
ts .
we ll se /
23 . 23 el ce
an nt gn on is he ce of cy uc - es at we ow he hm to er .
al ts re ed on us by he cs of ur ls .
an et - ks nd ms ly ne a nt ty on if he cy re is ic , i . e . , re is no ed th om an te ck to lf .
us , we ct on to de - cy es at re ed ic hs .
re , we ve ed in ts on er - le es : a is a gn ey nd ys he te le in he pd ee .
ly , we ve ed at he cy re be ed ng es , as
is so a nt of
, nd if he in or le
is ly ed if
a nd et of ts is ed by al id - ns .
a se em ly es a nd on he nt of ce ed to fy he al el .
we re ce a nd on he ze of he ls ed by ur hm .
in ur se , he ze is ly he er of rs ed in he ds or he nt es , us me ll nt ed to fy he re .
a nd al on is he ze of he te up - by es ed to te he ds in he re .
if se es et ry ge , ng nd ng em an et ve .
re , we en se to ce a nd on he er of ts er de .
23 . 23 ch hm
en a et of al te es , nd a ng on at ws us to te nt es , we ed ly de a re or ng a gh - ng is in ur ce .
he st ic ch hm is dy ll - ng ch , ng om ps to pe al ma .
we in ur ur - nd ly ve it .
at ch it - nt te re
h , we ck at
on , we er a et of le al ns to at re .
or ch ng te or it es ur ts , nd ct he st ne .
we ct en - on to le ns ch as ng or ng an ge , nd ng or ng a it in a pd ee .
is ss in - es il ne of he le or es .
at is nt , he hm an ke me er of om ps , nd en me he ll - ng ss .
af - er me er of ns of is rm , he hm ts nd ts he st re ed ng he re ss .
h ve a er
re , er ng a ep in he ch , st of he rk om he us on an be ed .
to nd is ea , me at ur nt re is
to do he ch , we te a et of es to , nd ct he ne at es us he st nt .
ay at we ve ho - en to te he al el or ( er ts nt et or ts pd ee ) .
he ng re is le al es to nt of he re ng to er te ed .
ce , he ge in re ng om he ge to
ow , we re ng h .
he ey ht is at he po -
h of a en re
le or es us ch is to ly se he re he st nt in re , i . e . , at es
ne nt ue to er is ow to se ng he os - .
he st ob - .
er , is ch is ry ed , as it es he st of he on in ms of ng he ze of he re .
we ow nt wo es at ss is rn .
he st ch is ed on an gy en is em nd he ed ck em : we ve a et of ms , ch th a ue nd a me , nd a ck th a ed e; ur al is to ct he st ue et of ms at ts in he ap - ck .
ur al re is ry ar : ry ge at we ce to he el as me ue in ms of re nd me st in ms of ce .
a rd ic or he ck em is to ly dd he em to he ck at as , ot he um ue , ut he st ue to me io .
in ur se , we an ly se he ge or ch he od nt ed by he al ce nt :
is st . 23 we er to is od of ng as ge ze or -
he nd ea is to se a on to he og - od ng on ed dl ( um on th ) .
is ng on is ed by as om on nd ng ry .
it es a el ng ot ly he on of he um - er of ts ed to de he ta en he el , ut so he er of ts ed to de he el lf .
is re as
we ve ly ed he ve ch th he wo as ed ve on he us et ed in ec - on 23 .
th sn nd dl ng ed er og - od an he ve ch or a ed nt of ce .
in ct , sn nd dl ed st ly or he re ge of lo - ed ce , nd no ar er as nt .
ll ee es ve he on of
en es a ey ht or ng he cy of is om - on .
as we aw , he re es to a um , ch of ch is ed ly th a de nd ts ts in he uc - re .
us , if we fy he nt et or he pd of ly a le te , he ms in he re ng to er es in ed ( 23 ) .
us , to te he re ng to a ly ed re , we ed ly te he al re or he ne te se cy el as ed .
is ic as le ce es or he ap - ck em .
ly , in ur em he es nd ts re ot ly ve , so re is no ct ng en he ms nd he me ce ds do ot ly .
is he me in
er ed .
ly es to
h , nd we an ly se at um -
ed to be re - ed er
al ts
in is on , we nt al ts or a ty of al - ld ta , ng : a us et ( 23 ) ; a et of he se of al ta ed in he 23 an dd up ( 23 ) ; nd a se of is ts in an co ( 23 ) .
we in by ng he cy of ur ds on ct es er a le on .
we en er re ex , ct - in es er al ns .
ly , we ss he ng me or on nd on or ur ls .
ct es .
we ed cy or ts er a le on on a et om us se ed ve ( ap - ly 3k es ) .
we ed wo ts of ts .
in he st et of ts , we ed ur ch to an ng ty on ue al is - ms .
al ms re ly ed to ti - te he nt er me ll et of es at te in he ry .
to ow a ir on , we ed ur ch ( nd rs ) in he me ng .
we ed ts of wo , ee , nd ur es of he us et , nd ed he ry ze or he et of ll ty ct es er se es .
we ed he ce of ur ms .
vi is a le on ue at es te ue en - ce : or ch te a ne al am is in - ed .
in is in , he in ze of ch te is ll , so it is le to in a et or ch ue .
is ch - ue is ve of es ed in ng st - ed ry rs ch as em - r .
st ds a en - al am er he es , ng he v - al ( v , a ) is - am on of la et al .
( 23 ) . 23 is ue on - ts ts at ze he ce in ea ( cy ue ) in ch et .
la et al .
nd is od or ng ms to be ne of he st ul in ts er is in .
le ts a om le of he ta - le nd es he lt ze of a ry om he le .
rm es ur od or ry ze on .
ss ed se , rm es ee ds nd he sn ng od .
or of he ry ze te :
we re he nt ds ng he ed ve is he al ze of ur is ur te , en he ed ve or is .
or ch nt , we ed he av - ge ed or er ll le ns or he ct es of he y; us ch nt is ly he ge er al nd es .
we ed he cy of se ds as we ed he ce ed to ch od ( th he on of vi , re
we ld ke to nk hy la or ng is de il - le to us or ur ns .
23 23 23 23 23 23
23 23 23 23 23 23
re 23 : ve or vs .
ge ze or a ry te er he us et .
( a ) wo te ry ( ge nd me ) .
he ve or or vi is 23
( b ) ee te ry ( ge , ek nd me ) .
he ve or or vi is 23
( c ) ur te ry ( ge , on , ek nd me ) .
he ve or or vi is 23 .
re 23 : ve or vs .
ge ze or a ry er he us et , th ls ed er 23 es .
( a ) ee te ry ( ss , on , nd us ) ( b ) ur te ry ( me , ry , ge nd pe ) .
( c ) a er ot ng he or on al es or a ee te ry ( me , ry , ge ) or le nd rm ( ng 3k es of ge ) .
in he er ot , ch nt ts a ry , re he te is he ve or ng le nd he te is he ve or ng rm .
us , ts ve he al ne nd to es on ch le ms rm nd ts ow he al ne nd to es on ch rm ms er .
he el ze is ed ) .
23 ws ts on us or ee ry es : er wo , ee , nd ur es .
st nd le , nd ll ds ly rm vi .
te at a bn th ee ds er wo es is ly a ly if - nt on of a ti - al am .
us , it is ng at ur ch ll es st , en in is se .
as he er of he ns is ly nt re , he ss of ms in is ng is ue to he nt ng on or ng nt ls , nd he ed
in he nd et of ts , we er a re ng - ng ng , re a le el is lt or he re le , nd en ed to te ny ct ry er at le .
in is se , st is no er le , so we ed he cy of rm to le , nd so ed to ms th le ds .
we lt a rm ( bn ) or he re et of es in he le , nd en ed ts of ee nd ur es .
ly , or le , he es ed ll 23 es .
we ed se es on he us et th 23 at - es .
he ts or wo nt ry es re wn in ig .
23 ( a ) nd ( b ) .
gh or ry ll ge ze , le es er rs , ms th ee ds es as he or - ge ze es .
te so at ee ds ly er - rm le ds .
he on is at le ds ce us to it ll ns in he pd er a nt is ed , ng ce on ng ns at ht ot be ry .
23 ( c ) ws he
ce on a rd ry te in re il .
he er ot es ce of le nd rm or a ed ge ze ( 3k es ) .
re we ee at rm ms le on he ty of he es .
( he ke in he ot at le or 3% ds to he ge et of ry ts ed to be
of ze n by le . ) ct - in es .
we te he cy of on or ct - in es on wo al - ld ts .
ur al se ( in ) as ee es : nt ( 3k es ) , on ( 3k es ) nd ct ( 23 es ) ; on rs gh a gn ey to nt nd nt rs to ct .
he er - is se ( tb ) so as ee es : nt ( 3k es ) , ct ( 3k es ) nd in ( 3k es ) ; ct rs gh a gn ey to nt nd nt rs to in .
th es fy he al ty on .
we ed he ng es .
le ts a om le of he in of ll ee es ng he gn ys nd es he lt ze of a ry om he le .
uj is a on of he rm at es ot ow ny ts or he in or le nd ts he ts of er es to be in he me on .
is is nt to a el th a bn or ch on er th he rm in on .
rm es ed ms .
th rm nd uj re ed ng ee - ds nd sn ng .
we ed ll ee es on a et of es at ed ll
re 23 : ( a ) ve or vs .
ge ze or a ct - in ry er ee es in he tb in th on on 23 es .
( b ) ve or or ee ry ts on tb ( c ) ve or or ee ry ts on in
ee es ( gh ll ee an so be ed or a ry er ny et of he es ) .
he es ct ne or wo es om ch le .
or ch ry te , we ed he or er ll le ns of he ed es .
te at ll ee es re un so as to ct al ls er ll of he es of he es , nd ot in a ay at as ic to he ry te .
23 ( a ) es he cy of he ee ds or ri - us ge es on a ee te ry in he tb in .
he ph ws th uj nd rm ng le or st ge es .
23 ( b ) es he cy of he ee ds or al nt ry es on tb , ng ch od 3k es of ge .
23 ( c ) es he cy of he ee ds or al nt ry es on in , ow - ng 3k es of ge or ch .
se ms ow at rm ys ms uj nd le .
ng me .
ly , we ne he ng me or on - on nd on or ur ls .
se ts re ed on a 23 on ng 23 th mb of al ry .
we st er he me ed by he ne on se , wn in ig .
as we an ee , he on me es th he nt of ge ed or he el : ur ch hm ts th st le el in ts ch ce ( ll es nt of ch er ) , so at re ch is ed to ct he re ex ls at ke an - ge of he al ce .
te at le ds re rs of de er to ct an ee s; er , as we is - ed , ey re so ly ss te .
he ng me or on so es th he nt of ta in he se .
23 ( b ) ws on me us et ze or ee ds nd le ds or ed el ge ze ( 3k es ) .
te at , or le ds , ng me ws ly th he ta ze .
or ee ds , ng me as gh ce nd is st nt of ta ze , ce he ng me is ed by he ch or he ee pd re ce nt cs re ed .
he ne on se is , of se , re me - al an on , ce it is en ed in he er op of ry ti - rs .
he ng me of ur on ue es ly th he ge ze of he el , ce ls at re a ot of ce re ly ly ed ks ch re at er ce me .
he ts in ig .
23 ( c ) il - te he ce .
he on me or th ds is te le .
he on me or ee ds is ly
er , ut is is ng an hm at es ot ly it he ee - e; we ct at an hm at is ed or ee ds ld rm on a ar th he le on es .
in is er , we ve ed a el ch or ng ry ty ng ic al ls an ks nd ir al on .
ur ch es ob - ic al ls , ch it al ce ns en he nt es in he le to ow a ct on of he nt on of he se at - te es .
we ve ed ur hm on al al - ld es in a ty of ns al , al , nd al .
he ss of ur ch on ll of se ts es at he pe of re ed by ur ds is ry on , nd at ur ch is a le on or ny al - ld es .
ur ch as al nt es .
to ur wl - ge , it is ue in ts ty to le ct nd in ra - rs in a le ed rk , by ng es or ex es ng al ct nd in ns .
ec - nd , ur ch ts he ty ms so - ed th ti - al ms .
ti - al is - ms , as he on of he le ws , er ow po - ly or me ss nd ss te .
ur ch ti - es he gh - al nt on ng a et of er - al al ns , ch of ch is te cu - te .
as we aw , we an ut se al ns er to et a od on to he re nt on .
us , ur el is ot ed to ng es er a ll et of ed es at en to ar in a am to - r; it an be ed to er es er an ry et of es in he se .
re re al nt cs at we ve ot ly ad - ed in is er .
ne is he al ce of he rm as he se es .
it is rd to nd ur ch to pt he rs of he rm er me , ng he re ed .
to pt he re , we an ly a nt of he ch of ( 23 ) .
we an so ep ck of he el re , ng he re if he re es ly .
er nt ic at we ve ot ed is ns er on - ey es .
in ur on nd ts , ur es se ly gn ey ns .
le is ry of es ds to et st om he ic ls at we se , ur ds re re al .
we an te es or es at in on - ey es by ng er he le es of he ed es , nd ur es re ly to be re
23 23 23 23
re 23 : ( a ) he on me or a rm or us ng ee nd le ds as a on of el ge ce .
( b ) he on me or a rm or us ng ee nd le ds as a on of ta ze .
( c ) he ng me or ry ze on as a on of el ze .
te an ds at do ot el ny of he es en es .
er an al on is ed to te ur ds on is ry of es .
re re ny ng ns to ur ch , ch we nd to te in re rk .
st , we nt to nd ur es to le ch er s; we ve at an al le ss er he ta an be ed to me in on a ch er et of te ls , he nt cs or ch an en be ed ry ly in ch de .
re ly , re re us ns of ur es to he sk of te ry ng , th or ap es nd or al se es ( en es ng ns ) .
ts .
we ld ke to nk is en nd hy la or ir ul ck .
is rk as ed nr ct 23 - 23 - c - 23 er as kb am , nd by he ty of he an on nd he ll un -
