a ge on of al - ld ta is ed in om - al al se ms .
st al ng ds rk ly th at ta ns .
us , to ly se ds , we re ed to rt ur ta to a at rm , by ng ch of he al re nt in ur se .
is er ds on he nt rk on ic al od - ls ( ms ) , nd es ow to rn em om es .
ms ow he es of an ct to nd ly th on er er - es of at ct nd on es of ed ob - ts .
gh ms re ly re ex - ve an rd ls , ch as an ks , we ow ow to nd ll - wn ta - al ds or ng an ks to rn se ls .
we be th er on nd re ng he ic on of he cy re in a el .
er , we ow ow he ng re an it rd se al es or nt ng om ge ts .
we nt al ts on th al nd ic re -
al ls re he st on on of ed ta .
se ss on , ng nd es ta , al ds , nd ic ts re ll ed in al es .
ed , al es re a ti - on ar ry .
ly , re as en ow - ng st in ng re ed se of se ge ts of ta , in ar ng se es or er - in ns nd es .
by ly ng se es , we an in a er ng of ur do - in nd ay er ul ps .
we an so se ur el to ll in wn ut nt on
he te of er ce , ew ty ,
em 23 , el
er ce nt , rd ty , es
ng 3a , rd ca 23 - 23
le , we ay be ed in ng er a on is a al ey - er ed on ir nk ts , al el , ss ns nd st ds of wn es ( en , 23 ) .
in er se , we ay be ed in ng eb es as ng to a tu - nt , a ty er , a ct , tc . , ng es of he eb ge nd of ed es ( en et al . , 23 ) .
ly , ew ve ng ms re pa - le of ng ta in ts al rm .
st re ed to ng th a at et of es , ch th ts wn pa - te es .
to se se ds , ne ly ns he al ta , ng ts er re .
is ro - ss , er , es on ch ht be al in ng he ta .
er , or le , he em of ng he ue of an te of a in ty , e . g . , er a on is a ey - er .
is te ll be ed th er es of is ty , as ll as th es of ed es , e . g . , of al ac - ns ed by is on , of er le ed in se ns , of er ns ed by se le , tc .
in er to en is em , we ld ed to de in ce on a ed et of es at he rn - ng hm an se in is sk .
us , we nt a ng hm at an al th le es nd ir op - es , nd an ch ns ut an ys er - cs ed on he es of he es to ch it is re - ed .
il ow , ve ic ng ( lp ) ( ac nd ki , 23 ) as en he ry ng me - rk th is ty .
lp ms rn al rn es or ng en me st - er te ds .
le lp is an nt on in ny gs , it ay be te in rs .
he in on is he in - ic re of he es ed .
in ny ns , ch as he es ve , we er ng ns at re ar om ng ic .
ur al in is er is to rn re ed is - ic ls , at nt al ns th en he es of an ty nd en he es of re - ed es .
ch a el an en be ed or ng ut an ty ng he re ch re of ge ed by he al on .
he ng nt or ur rk is he ed ta - on of ic ls , as ed in an et - ks ( ns ) .
a bn ws us to de a ct ep -
on of a ex ty on er me ed et of es or om es .
he ta - on ts he ty of ce at is nt in ny ns .
we ld on wo nt ts in he ld of an ks .
he st is he ep ng of he al ng em in ch ls ( er - an , 3; an et al . , 23 ) nd he le of uc - re in ng an te as or he ng sk .
he nd is he nt nt of ns at nd he te - ed bn on to te a ch er al re ( er nd er , 3; go nd wy , 3; le , 23 ) .
in is er , we ne se wo es .
ed , ne of ur ey ns is to ow at ny of he ch - es of an rk ng an be ed to he sk of ng se re ex ls .
is bu - on es ( er nd er , 23 ) s ry rk on is ic .
we rt by ng he cs of ba - ic al ls .
we en ne he ms of er on nd re on or is ss of ls .
we al th me al al es at is - sh he em of ng al ic od - ls om at of ng an ks .
we de a on of he od on te to is et - ng , nd ow ow it ts th he rd ns of bn ng .
he ch er nt cy uc - es is ly re ex an in he se of rn - ng bn re nd we ce he ry ls nd ts to do is ly .
we en be en - al ts on ic nd al - ld ts , nd ly ss le ns nd ns .
23 ng rk 23 al el we be ur al el in ic ms , ly re - ed to he ge of ty - ip ls .
is en - ty ws ur rk to be ed to a ty of ic al ms , ng he ic ic ms of ( go nd wy , 3; le , 23 ) , nd he ic me ms of ( er nd er , 23 ) .
ur ng ts ly to ll of se ks .
ch on
nd a et of ns
he ry of a al el ts of a et of es on es in me ed in is ed .
is ry
ty pe is ed th a et of es es a ma or ur al el .
er a le ic el of he ce of a le ne at es a ns od pe .
ch er - on as wo es of he me ng is ne , ne ed om er er , nd ne ed om er fa - er .
re is so a ly ed st at ts to ze he ns od pe .
ur ma ns wo es on nd od - st , nd ee ns er , er , nd st - of .
es of on re me , er , p - me ( he me ed om he er ) , m - me ( ed om he er ) .
he es
or ch ty pe
or ch ty
of a ma es a et of es , he ce as an ed at - .
or ch on
; ts ue in
we re ed in ng a ty el er es of a al ma .
er , me es , ch as a me or al ty er , re ly er - ed .
we el ch es as ed .
we me at ey re wn in ny on of he ma .
he er es re ed ic .
a on re a al ma is a al on of an ce of he ma .
it es he et of ts ss , he es of he ed es of se ts , nd he ns at ld en he ts .
er , it es he es of ic es ed .
a le - ds he on by so ng he es of he ic es .
of he on re
ne al on ch ll rn ut to be ul is he is ny on , we on of a ot in .
if - th ts to in a , ch we an en ew as a ot , we et .
or ny ds .
( in al ra on .
we an te ts to rm er ot ns , ed by on of ry ns .
s in he in st be ly ed . ) ( ch of he
. ) ts in is et re ed
te ll he ts
of od - st re al - er , te , ed , nd
23 ic al ls we ow ed to he on of ic al ls ( ms ) .
he ic al re is to el ur er - ty ut he es of he on - ed , or ic , at - es of he ts in ur in of se .
in er ds , en a on re , we nt to ne a ba - ty on er ll ns of he on .
ur ic el ts of wo ts : he , nd he rs as - ve cy re , .
he cy re is ed by ed th it , ng th ch te se nd to al s; ey ll be ed in nt ys or nt ts in .
ly , he ts re es at re ct es on
a et of ts pa
we sh en wo es of al ts
he te
ll nd ly on
an nd on er ic te
cy or al ts : or ny ct an so nd on es of ed ts ce or an al ct
is al ce es a ng de - is a ot in .
to nd he cs of is al , ll at .
pt in es re he ot in is ed to be le - ed , we st fy he ic ce of se ry es us ly he ht ol to ss
ts he et of ts at re w - es of
he on of on om
re 23 : he rm re or a le cs in .
ed es re wn in ar nt nd ic es re wn in ic .
ed es te ns en es nd id ws te ic de -
is e; i . e . , ll nd ly on me ag - te ty of is et .
re re ny al nd ul ns of on : he de of he et ( st re - ly ng ue ) ; an ue of he et ( if es re al ) ; an , um , or um ( if es re ed ) ; ty of he t; tc .
re ly , ur ge ws a on of an re - es a et of es of me nd pe , nd ns a ry of it .
he pe of he te an be he me as at of ts ts .
er , we ow er es as ll , e . g . , an te at ts he ze of he et .
; he cs is at or ny
ng to ur cs le , er he te lt .
ce he lt of a od st ds on er it as ed , it as od - st he lt so ds on he ge - as a nt .
ic al of he on ed .
le - ed , we dd od - st p - me as ts .
re 23 ws he re of a le rm or is in .
to ve as a nt
ll nd on he ue of in he us ay .
we te
re ly , et
, we an ne en a et of ts pa a al ty el or a al ty on ( pd ) at es be he et of ar -
a le te in he me on or an te of a et in me nd es as a et of es
, he pd es pe .
or ch le of es .
he rs in
ll of se ds se
ll at ch of se ts
en a on re or ur ma , we nt to se se al ty ls to ne a ty ri - on er ns of he on .
st , te at he on es he et of ts in ur el .
we so - te a om le th ch ic te .
he on so es he ns
of ch ct
en ts , nd by he et of w - es ed th ry ct or ch ip in w
so te at by ng at he ns en ts re al - ys ed by , we re ng ty er he al re of he el .
to ne a nt ic el er is le - on , we st re at ur ic es re ic , so at a om le es ot nd , ly or ly , on ts wn ue .
er he ts of an , we ne an is a nt of
we ay at a , we ne an ge he ed ph ed by ic .
in is se , we an ne a nt ic el er te ns
is ic ve to a on er he es
is a nt of
" ci zs (
on 23 : if a on er ns
is ic ve to
, en ( 23 ) es
we ey ch a of of is on , by ng ow to ct a bn er he ic es of a .
is on is nt of he ge - ed el on ch ( an et al . , 23 ) .
re , er , he on is ly a ht - t; ur ng hm er ts is rk .
in is rk re is a de or ch ri - nd or te es ed by ts .
he ts of se te om es re ll of he at - es at te in he on , ng to he .
he ds of om es at ns ed by nd to ic es re ly he ds de - , nd he ds of om es at re - nd to te es re he ic on of he ar te or .
it is sy to fy at if he ic es re ic , en so is he ed an rk .
is on so ts ne ay of ng es ut a al el .
we an le he ng an rk nd se rd ls or ng es ut it .
gh or ch on , we an le a rm to a an rk , a rm es ch re on an he ng bn .
a bn es a ty on er a ed et of es .
a rm es a on er ny n; in nt ns , he et ( nd um - er ) of es in he in ll ry , as ll he ns en he es .
in a ay , ms re to ns as a et of es in st - er ic is to a et of es in al ic : a le ch as
es a ly te et of nd
23 er on we ow ve to he sk of ng ms .
we in th ng he rs or a rm re he cy
re is wn .
in er ds , we re en he re at es he et of ts or ch te , nd ur sk is to rn he rs at ne he ds or is re .
ur ng is ed on a ar ng et , ch we ll ke to be a te ce is sk is ly rd , it is of st in nd of lf .
in on , it is a al nt in he re ng hm ed in he xt on .
he ey nt in er on is he od on , he ty of he ta en he el .
is on es he se of he ty on to es in he rs .
as al , he od of a er et is ed to be he ty of he ta en as al , we
ly rk th he og of is on :
" ci zs (
he ey ht is at is on is ry ar to he og - od of ta en a an rk ( ck - in ct , it is he od on of he an rk ed by he re en he le - on .
he in ce om rd an rk er ng is at rs or nt es in he rk re ed to be al .
us , we an se he ll - od ry of ng om an ks .
er he sk of ng um od am - er on .
re , ur al is to nd he er et - .
is on is ed by he de - on of og - od on to a on of ms ng to he us es of he nt es .
ch of he ms in he re ts in ( 23 ) an be ed ly of he st .
ce , al li - od on es to nt on ob - ms , ne or ch pd .
at es he ds (
or al ds , um od on an be ne ia nt cs ch in is se re st at he at - he ts c
nd ts ts an ly ke .
on 23 : ng al ds , he um
od er ng
& of he nt es
as a ce of is on , er ng in ms is ed to ng nt cs .
we ed to nt ne or of nt cs or ch pd .
ch ng an be ne in a rd er ng an - rd es es .
te at is on ws at ng rs in ms is ry ar to ng rs in an et - ks .
in ct , we ht ew is as ng rs or he bn at he rm es en he on .
er , as
ed ve , he ed rs an en be ed or ng ut er ns , ch ce a ly
in ny es , um od er on is ot st , as it ts he ng ta .
he an ap - ch es a or on er he rs to th he es in he ng ta , nd is re ig - ly re st .
as we ll ee in on 23 , he an rk so es us a od ic or at - ng he ty of nt te es .
ue to ce ns , we ly ey be is ve ch .
ly ng , he an ch es a or er he wn rs , nd ms an ng , ng he ta as ce , to te a te - or on er se rs .
to ly is ea in ur ng , ll at he rm rs of a et of al ty on al on of he rm .
ng he rk on an es or rn - ng an ks ( an , 23 ) , we ke wo as - ns .
st , we me er ce : he rs er he rs re nt .
nd , we me at he or er is a et on .
ey , a et or or is ed by a et
a al on of a le ! is et f& ( ' k ( )
or a er or ng se wo ns , he or so as is rm .
at is , it is a ct of de - nt et ns er he rs ch an be ed ly .
on 23 : if is a te nt , nd he or es er ce nd et th er -
he rs of ( or re ls ee ( ot , 23 ) . )
a on on
or he nt
is a ct of et ns th rs
& , en he or
ce we ve ed he or , ow do we te he ty of ew ta ? in he se of bn ng , we me at es re id , ch es at ey re in - nt en he ue of he rs .
us , to lu - te a ew ce , we ly ed he or er he am - rs .
he ty of he ew ce is en he ba - ty en ry le er ue , ed by he or ty er se es .
in he se of ns , is rm an be en ly as he ce il - ty ng to he ed ue of he rs ( i . e . , he an of he or et or ch er ) .
is ug - ts at we ht se he ed rs or at - ng ew ta .
ed , he la or he ed rs is us to he ne or ns : on 23 : ng al ds , or in - ce , nd et rs , th rs
" , we ve at :
ly , he ed rs re ot he er an on or ng ty of ew ta .
re re wo le ns .
dy in he se .
in is se , he on
of me er - so es ur ty ut he .
we re ot ly se ur ld os -
he st em is at , in ur ng , he on of id ta is en ed .
ly , a ew ce ht ot be ly nt of ld es en he am - rs .
er he cs in , nd me at ur ew ta es on ut he er of he ew ct or ut he rs to on ut he ew ce .
is em es ot ur if he ew ta is ot ed to he ng ta , at is , en he ew ta is ly a nt se th he me me .
re ly , he em so rs en es of ew ts re ot ts of ny te in he ng et .
in he ge - cs le , is ns at we an rt ew le to ur se , as ng as ey re ot rs of le al - dy in he se .
he nd em es he al on or ng ed rs es .
is nt ds on he ct at he ty of a ew ce is ar in he ue of ch er .
at is , ch er is ed at st ce .
is on is ed en we er he ty of a ex se ng le in - es om he me ss .
in is se , ur al of he ty of he ew ta en he rs an no er be ed to ng he ty ve to he ex - ed er ue .
he ct on is ed he al od of he ( ew ) a; we se it in on 23 or ng es .
or ow , we te at if he or is ly ed ( i . e . , we ve en ny ng es ) , we an te is rm by ng he ed me - rs of on 23 , as we ld or a le ce .
in ce , we ll en se se ed rs as ur
23 re on we ow ve to he re ng em of ng a cy re ly , as ed to ng it en by he er .
re re ee nt es at ed to be ed .
we st ne ch cy uc - es re l; we ed to te he ss of er - nt te s; nd we ed to ne an ve ch re at ds a od re .
23 al es en we er nt cy es , it is im - nt to be re at he cy re ts in nt ty ls .
to ee is ty , we ee om on 23 at he on .
of se , we an ly fy or be ic ve to a en te re at it is ic ve to he of ur ng se .
er , we so nt to ee at it ll be ic ve to er es at we ay er in ur in .
ow do we ee ty or an ry se ? a le ch is to
if er ( a )
is a nt of
re at es ng es ct me er ( i . e . , re ed ) .
re ly , we ay at is a nt of , or ( b ) nd he w - es .
we en re at re of ss ds ly on es at de it in he er .
le is le ch ly es ty , it is oo ed to er ny nt es .
on - er in ur ic el .
of a on ds on he pe of er s; us , we ve on p - me ng ly on p - me , ch ly es he re - ts of ur le ch .
in is el , he ar - nt ty at he te el is ed at he el of al ts , as a on ot be is / er wn an - or .
at is , he on of ty es on me or ge at we ve ut he in .
to ow ur ng hm to al th cy ls ch as is we st ow he er to ve ur hm or ge .
we ow he er to rt at in ts
ed at re is a al ng ay at w
- ve or me is ed ic if ch of ts ts
i re ed c; i . e . , we re
ch at if
is ed ic .
is a nt of
ch is en if w
we se is or ge ne he ty of er - in cy ls .
we rt by ng a ph at es he ct es en he es .
in is ph , we ve a ow ge , we ve an is ed ic nd ed se .
( te at re ht be al es , of nt rs , en wo es ) .
he on is at cy ng en es es ts at re or - ed by an ic er .
us se es by es or ed th ra - ct es ( ow es ) an - ot se a ic cy .
we st ke re th er es , or ch we do ot ve or ge , as se ht rm a le .
is on ts he ow - ng on : a ( ed ) cy ph is ed if ry le in he ph ns at st ne en ge nd no ed es .
is ed , en or ny on
on 23 : if he ed cy ph of
on er ts to
or ch he ts es a nt ty
re ly ic ,
is on of on es he wo al es we ed ve .
en we do ot ve ny an - ed ic ns , ll he es in he cy ph re ed er ow or ed .
us , he ph is ti - ed if nd ly if it is ic .
in he cs le , ll he ns ld be in .
us , it es to ck at es in ts ( ow es ) re ic .
on 23 : on of a ed ph an be de - ed in me ar in he er of es in he ph .
we it he ls of he hm or ck of ce , ut it es on rd ph ms .
ly , we te at it
is sy to nd is on of on or ns re ur or ge es al ts of an - ed ic ns , ch et th ts wn er ( e . g . , ob - ts on a id th a th - th ng nd an st - st ng ) .
we ly or he ph th al rs , nd ck at ch le ns es th ly ne or er an ow , pt or ed .
23 ng nt es ow at we ow ch es re al , we ed to de - de ow to te nt es in er to ck ne at ts he ta ll .
we pt an el on ds to ur rk .
ly , we nt to te he or ty of a re en an ia - .
ng es le we ve at .
is re is ed of wo in ts : he or ty of he re , nd he ty of he ta ng at re .
he st nt is
, ch es a or er es .
we me at he ce of re is in - nt of he on , nd us .
in he xt of an ks , we en se a le rm or er le cy es .
ly , is on es ot rk in ur ng .
he em is at re ay be ly ny le es .
in ur ge - cs le , a ns pe an nd on he no - pe of is ts , or of is ts , or of is at - ts , tc .
a le nd al on es
he nd nt is he al od :
ng ct ot ns , by ng
he um of he hs of he ns w ng in
if we se a er nt et or ( as ve , is al es to a ct of ls ch of ch as a le ed rm on .
( is is a im - le on of he as ed in he an re or on 23 : if
is a te nt , nd
, is al to
es er ce nd is et th hy - , he al
he al od is a ct of le ms , ch of ch ds to a on .
er , he rm or ds ly on he rs " nt cs c he al od rm is he nt rm in he ty of a re .
it es he ty of he
" nd he
" , en ,
is he ma on .
re th ts t to he ta .
is ce an be de ly ia he ic on of he al li - od to it on , ch as he dl re ( ee , e . g . , ( an , 23 ) ) .
ly , we te at he an re es at we gn a or er er es or ch le uc - re .
ce re re ny ( ps ly ny ) er - ve es , is is a le sk .
in he se of an ks , re is a ss of rs at an be de - ed by a le rk ( an et al . , 23 ) .
se rs ve he al ty of ng re va - nt , at is , ey ee at he al od is he me or es at re , in me ng se , nt .
se ns ve ot et en ed or ur er uc - es , so we er he ue to re rk .
ad , we ly me at me le et or ( e . g . , a rm ne ) as en ed or ch te nd nt et .
23 re ch ow at we ve a st or ng er a re is al , nd a ng on at ws us to te if - nt es , we ed ly de a re or nd - ng al gh - ng es .
or an ks , we ow at is sk is np - rd ( ng , 23 ) .
as rm ng is at st as rd as bn ng ( a bn is ly a rm th ne ss nd no ns ) , we ot pe to nd an nt re at ys ds he st ng re .
us , we st rt to ic ch .
he im - st ch hm is dy ll - ng ch , ng ur re as a ic .
we in ur nt te re nd ly ve it .
at ch on , we er a et of le al ns to at re , re ll of em , nd ck he ne th st re .
we al th al ma ng om ts .
as in an ks , he ty ty of he re as nt ct on he al ef - cy of he ch hm .
st , we se he re to a um of al es ng to al es nd ir ts .
ow , if ur ch hm on - rs a on to ur nt re re he nt et of a le te is nt , ly he nt ll ge .
us , we ed of he re ed th ly te is ar nt , ng he rs d; is ts in or al gs .
re re wo ms th is le ch .
st , as ed in he us on , we ve ly ny le es .
nd , en he ic ps of he ch re e; he ss of ng nt cs es ve se ns .
en if we ct he et of te es at ch ep of he ch , we ot rd to do ll he se ns ec - ry to te ll of em .
we se a ic ch hm at es th se es .
at a gh el , he hm ds , we ve a et of al ts .
we en do a rd re ch ed to he ce of es in ch .
he ge of he ts of ch is ch is at we an te he ew nd -
in es .
at ch se
re in ot
or ch te
; st of he ve ns he ns nd he on ed in he on of he ts re ed in se ws .
he uf - nt cs or ny et of al ts an ly be ed om is ew .
he ve on , er th he ty of he re , ws he ps of he ch ( ay , dy ll - ng ) to ne ry ly .
he ss of is ch ds on he ce of he al ts .
ly , a ng al ce an lt to or es .
ng ( an et al . , 23 ) , ch ex - es a ar ch in he xt of ng an ks , we se an ve ch at ts th me re ( ly ne re ch te es ot ve ny ts ) , nd ct he ts ot is re .
we en ly he ch re nd et a ew , er ng , re .
we se ew al ar - ts ed on is ew re nd te , ng en no er nt is de .
it ns ly to ss he ce of ot
nt es .
ps he st ch is to in by .
in es -
ve es , ot ld st of ll of pa as ll as ll es at re ed to ia ot ns .
of se , se ew es ld re
n; we ep he ue by ng le ag - es or ch te .
to be he et of es in
is me ds he et of al ts at ch on .
er , it ly ts in ge et of en - al ts .
us , we ly se a re ed hm if ey em to dd at ly ds ts to ot .
re re al le ys ue nd pa of ng he al ue ed by ew ts .
me of se re ed in ( an et al . , 23 ) in he xt of ng an ks .
ir ts st at we ld te a ew al nt by ur - if we dd he ng he ge of re or he ly of to ts nt ts .
we en se he st ng of se , as ll as he nt ts , to be he ew et of al ts .
is ch ws us to ni - ly ce he ze of he al nt et , nd by of he ng ew , le ng ly to se nt on in he ty of he ed el .
23 on nd al ts we ed ur ng hm on op of he st - es ct - al se nt em .
ll re - ed ts re ed ly gh se ec - on es , nd ed to id ng he me ry ce .
ng he ch ss , we ed ry ma - ed ws ng to ns en nt re - ns , nd se ws re en ed or ng he
we ed ur ed ng hm on wo do - ns , ne al nd ne ic .
he wo ns ve ry nt cs .
he st is a ie se at ns ee ns : ie , or nd rs , ch es rs to es in ch ey ed
ed om tp : / / ww - db . rd . du / ub / es / oc . ml
se ns ut 23 es nd 23 rs .
le is se as a le re , it ts he nd of ms ne en rs en ng th al ta : ng es , ge ns or es , nd on - nt se of es .
he ct at ur hm as le to al th is nd of al - ld em is te is - ng .
ur hm ed he el wn in re 23 ( a ) .
is el is le , nd se to ne at we ld on - er to be ct .
it ed at he re of a ie ed on ts de nd ts lm ss ( or , ck & te , or tc . ) nd at he de ed on ts lm ss .
it so ed an ng cy om - ng ll ee ns : he le - pe ed by an or in a ie ds on he er of he or nd he re of
he nd se , an al ic se ar to he le in is er , ed te nt al - es .
or ne ng , he ve re of is in ws ly ex ns to be ed .
in on , he ic el in is in is ly le .
ch on as ee nt es p - me , m - me , nd pe ll th he me in nd ll ed ow to he me es of he ns er nd er .
he ld rd is he el ed to te he a; he re of at el as wn ar - er in re 23
we ed ur hm on ts of ar - us es ng up to 23
a ta et of ze of a ly ee ng le , th an ge of 23 od ts er on .
we ed ur hm on a st et of ze 23 , 23
re 23 ( b ) ws he og - od of he st et or he ed ls .
in st es , ur hm ed a el th he ct re , nd ed ll .
er , in a ll ty of es , he hm ot ck in al ma , ng a el th ct re at ed te ly .
is an be en in he er ts of re 23 ( b ) ch ow at he an og - od of he ed ls is te le , ut re re a ew rs .
rd es ch as om ts an be ed to al th al ma .
23 on nd ns in is er , we ed a ew al ng sk : rn - ng ic al ls om ta .
we ve wn at ny of he as om an rk ng ry er to is ew sk .
er , we ve so wn at it so es ny ew es .
ng se as to ge es is an nt ue .
we ve at is an be ed by a er on th he gy of se ms , ng es nd ry on .
re , re as en a ot of nt rk on ng on om ve ta ts , ng rk on ng ly ng ns of es or es .
we ve at se as ll lp ly in he on of nt cs .
re re so al nt le ns to is rk .
ps he st us ne is he nt of ss - ng ta nd en es .
we an nd rd ch - es ( ch as on on or ng ta )
re 23 : ( a ) he rm ed or he ie in , a al - ld se ng ut 23 es nd 23 rs .
( b ) ng ve ng he on ce of ms ed in he ic in .
he - is ws he es e; he - is ws og - od of a st et of ze 23 , 23
or ch le ze , we ow 23 nt ng ts .
he ve ws an og - od of he ls as a on of he le ze .
to is sk ( ee ( er nd er , 23 ) or me im - ry rk on ed ls . ) er , he ty of ce on ge es th ny ng es ke he st of a ve on of ch ms ve .
ly , is in ls th or ew ce ms nd or ew ng ms at id ed ls to ce er se ry ge ms .
en re st - ng is he ue of ed ry of en es .
re re me ry rs to is on in he xt of an ks ( an , 23 ) , in he on - xt of lp ( ac nd ki , 23 ) , nd ry ly in he xt of le ry ns ( nn et al . , 23 ) .
ng se as nd ng em to is re om - ex rk is a nt nd ng ge .
er on ds he ss of ls we er .
re , we ed at he al re is ed be - re he ic te es re ed .
a er ss of ms ( e . g . , at of ( er nd er , 23 ) ) ld ow es er he re of he l; or ex - le : ty er he et of ts in he el , e . g . , he er of en a le as , or er he ns be - en ts , e . g . , se is he od at as nd on a me ne .
ly , we ld nt se es to lp us ly er ng es nd la - ps at ld in he ld .
ir an as ed by a nt om he el er st .
se or , ne er , nd vi ef - er re ed by nr ct 23 - 23 - c - 23 un - er as kb am , by nr nt 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 , by he ro er he ri am ed ap - ch to nt ms , nd by he ty of he an on nd of he ll on .
