ss ng of an se is a rd et le - nt em .
in is er , we ve an nt ng hm or ng an se at 23 - 23 es er ec - nd ng a am of ar th es .
he ey ea is to ne an te ve ch is le in is ng ng le ph - cs th a ve el at ds ta - en ce ut dy rt ns .
in ch er on , we ly a rm of al el - ed ch at ts he re of he ic in .
as st ve - ts nd on an pt he al ch , we ze a et of ly ed ch rs to ct dy ts .
we be a el hm or ng is sy ce ut dy rt ns up he ne - ic in ng he ed rm .
he ng on of dy ns ws us to ze he el - ed ch , ch in rn ws ur em to ly er om ry ng ft .
we de ve al ts on 23 al - ld es ng ic nd - th ns om a er - al on re em .
if on re gy re to me ve - nt , ap , nd le in al ts , en a le ge of ns ld me le , ch as ve an - ne on , rt ce , er on , al ty nd on is .
it is ly at ny ch ns ll me nt ce he gy is le .
he ly le on ay , at is , er - ed hu - an on re , as so ar ly en ed in he en - nt ry , ly se he ed or al - se as nd nt rs or ts ir - ng gh on ts .
as a lt , re as en ch
st in he ea of ss on re , nd ch ms re ng re ar ( 23 ) .
in nt rs , ms ve en ed at ap - re ll al on at ar al - me me s; ow - er , ey ly ly on ti - ew ra ms nd al ed ng ns at it ir ap - ty .
ss ve ms at se a ow se - ne ra em ve ot et ed a ar el of ty .
st ar es so ar im at lv - ng ed ns of he ll ed on ap - re em , ch as re on , or re of ed on or in ts of he dy .
me - of - ht rs re a gy at rs ch ry on ut a ge rt of he ne nd , at he me me , es a nt , on - ve em up .
se rs de se th ts at ry nt in he ne at gh me es .
he ge ta ed ws sy on of he an dy nd an so te es at ld se ve ar ce nd re se st ar ms .
ge rs , in al , nd es to a ul ve el ( as he cs re ws ) , se ey re ot ve to es in ng , ad - ws , nd he ty of he ms at ke it ly le to ly el ty es .
in he re , se rs re ly to be as ap as ms re ay .
us , we ch he an on re sk ng me - of - ht rs .
te he es of th rs , er , al rd ms ve to be lt th , ng he gh ty of he te - ce ( 23 ee - of - om in ur se ) nd he ar , ly ed od on .
we se in is er a ic ng me - rk at ys a ly te ve el ch is le in is ng ng an nt pu th a ve el .
ur go - hm as ed ly or st on at eo me es , ce al on es a ow - cy on - on le .
he ed em re -
es 23 ms er ra me to te he nt es of a 23 ee - of - om an el .
ur ry on is a el hm or ng ve rt ns th al ll - ng or is sk .
ur ry on is he on of a th od on nd a ns of ng it on ly le cs re ( us ) ly in er to in ar al - me or - ce .
in on to is , we ed an ve et of al - ld st es th ed nd th , ch re ed ly ( 23 ) or re ks .
ed rk
he ic is of an pe nd on om or ta as en ed ly as es - nd et al .
( 23 ) te in ir ey ng re an an 23 rs .
al ng ed es ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) pt to ly ap ge es , es or es om - ed om em ly to es .
le is is an er - ng ch in al , it is ot ar et ow to le it ly to he al em ng in ed ts ue to he gh ty of he an se ce .
ed to ur ch , is ne of ch ld t ll to he ta - en nt of ur go - hm ed in ec .
ly , al rs ry to ct ts of he dy ch ey le to a om - te rm , ed al es .
gh ng on gh ty nt ds ed om er ns in - ad of eo , rs et al .
( 23 ) ke a ar ch at es ve ds to te he ns of te es in a an rk .
in he ti - ew on ng , al et al .
( 23 ) ly a ar gy , ut se ic ef on or ir ce od .
ur ch rs in at we rm ce in he us in nd at we re ng on em - al ta th a er or .
ur ch to dy rt on ed in is rk is ed in ( 23 ) .
ch rk as so ed on ng - ed ds ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ng ed ng , ch es ts of rs , nd al ng , ch ts at he op of he ic in nd ds wn - ds .
in ur ch , we pt he ea of al ch ng he ic in , ut ce om am - ng th ic ng se it is ws in - ed cy gh on .
ly re ve en al ts to ck le ng a me - of - ht ( of ) ra .
st et al .
( 23 ) ly on - ar st es to ge ps , at re ed om me to me .
op et al .
( 23 ) se a eo ra nd a of ra to t a al 3d dy el to he ta ia he ve st nt ( cp ) hm .
th pa - rs us on ng of he er dy ly .
ue to ir
re 23
ft : he an dy is ed by a ic in nd a 3d ce sh .
ht : he ic an rk ng he es xt of he ed on nd he ed ge ts zt .
al re , th ms re le to ng ck en he on is oo st .
ly , hu et al .
( 23 ) ve ed an hm or er - dy ng om ne of ra .
ir hm is ed on nd - ed cs or ng ts of he er dy nd is ti - ed or er nt - ng es .
se ms do ot de ny on nt nd te gh al on ed om he us me .
he ed em of ng ng ne or ny eo as as so ed ch on .
he ic rk by er et al .
( 23 ) ks a on om a le ra ng al ow to in me - to - me or - es , ch re ed to te on va - es , ch re ed up he ic in .
by as - on , ir ch is ed to ns el to he ge ne , nd it is so le to ng ck .
er , he al ea of ng on om he ge up he ic in is ne at we it in ur hm , gh we se he ed rm to ve er ty on .
re is a ng nd in rs at se ro - le cs re ( us ) to nt om - er on ms ( 23 ) .
he el re of pu - on on a pu as ll as ir on or ng on es ds us to ve , at ey re an al rm or er on ms , ly en al - me ce is nt .
we it us to rm ge rs of od ns ly .
ic el
he ve is to ck an ed dy er me ng a am of ar th es .
we st ne a ic el or he es of st in is ec - on nd en be ow to ly rm ce in ec
we el he dy as a on of 23 id dy ts , ch re ed in ce ng to a ee - ed ic in ( on ) , ee he ft am in ig .
a ic in is a ed ic ph ( ag )
th ll - ed nt - ld ns .
he ce ge - ry of he el is ed ia a ed le sh , ch ms th he ng ic in by ns of a ex ng ch ( 23 ) .
we de - te he on of he dy by xt = ( x i re ch i es a ly ed dy rt in he in .
he ns xi an be ed in ri - us ys , ch as ng us es or in ec - or / on rm .
nt om he ce of ep - on , x i es he on nd on of a ic dy rt ve to ts nt rt .
he in is ed to he ld at he is x 23 t ( ch es ot ve a nt in he ic ee ) .
in ur el , we ow he is to ly te nd te .
he ng dy ts re ed to he ir nt ia a ll nt , ch ws em to te in ny on , ut ot to te .
we in he te on w i ( x ) of a dy rt i by ng he ns of ts rs in he ic in , w i ( x ) = x 23 x nt ( i ) x i .
in er to ne he st ly te at ny me , we st ne a ic el .
he te at me t is he se xt nd ts st te - me ve vt .
he nt is he ge an zt .
we el ur em as a ic an rk ( bn ) , ee he ht ia - am in ig .
23 , ch es he ov ce on at xt nd vt re nt of 23 , .
, 23 en 23 nd 23
is bn es he on of he al es p ( 23 ) , p ( 23 , vt ) nd he ea - nt el p ( xt ) .
we ke he on at he ns in ur em re wn om a an on th ro 23
us , 23 n ( 23 , ) th he ce ix ng al .
we te at ce x is a st of ve ns , he es re so ed ly .
at is , if k is he ex of he ee , v k t es he ge in he le en he in nd gh at me t .
he ce as ed by nd ng io - al es nd he wn eo me te , gh it ld ly be et by an au - ed re ng he ny le an on
we ne p ( vt , 23 ) to be a ic pd ( al ty on ) , at es he ns - ns in vt to se in 23
ly , x i th ty 23
t = v i
he nt el es he on on he ed ge ta en he te of he em .
he ea - ed ge an is ed by z = ( zk ) m 23 re zk es he ed th of he el at te k .
an le an is wn in ig .
we me he al en -
te at it is on in he ng re to me om
ns er an om es
re 23
ur or el or al ge ts ap - es he re of a an ( nt se ) nd a rm on ( rs nd is - ns ) .
ce of ch el en he te nd ne ry m ,
p ( xt , m ) = y
t xt , m ) .
to te he zk or a ic dy on x nd el m , we rm he es ng to ch rt i by ts ng on ix w i ( x ) .
we en st a ay om he al nt gh el k nd te he ce to he st ce it ts , ch we te zk .
te , at is is ly a ay - ng op - on on ce in he er cs ng
en he al th ue , we an en ly a se el or he en or .
se ls or me - of - ht rs ve en ly ed in he cs ra - re .
he rd ch is to ly el he if - nt es of se at re an ur .
in le , ne an te he ts , ch as an se of he or , he ty of a ax ge ng , rs , nd rs .
we te ch a pd ng he nc - on wn in ig .
et us ne ep ( x ) = ( in ( x , 23 ) ) 23 ( 23 23 in ( x , 23 ) ) .
we ne
p ( zk k| ) xp ( ep ( zk k| ) ) .
we se is on se it es a an ed th a rm on nd it is a lt - in nc - on in he pu ng ge .
ur al is to ne he st ly es xt nd vt at me t en he ap ts of he us me , at is , 23 nd 23
at ch me , we ce he lt , gh al on em h xt , ti =
xt , vt og p ( xt , vt ) og p ( xt , t| 23 , 23 ) ,
or ch we be an nt on in ec
as a al nt of ur on em , he ly ed nt el p ( xt , vt ) is te ue to ts ty to ct ls m nd to ht es in he te x .
ts of he el at io - te ir te in he ed ge ll be ed ly .
or ce , ly ng an ct ll re - lt in ll ls at he es ng an ct th
ue , ch ld be ed ly .
he or el ly ts or is er - ty gh he se of a vy - ed on .
in he re , it as ly en ed at he ue od is en ll - ed or on , nd ur - te ds re en ed ( 23 ) .
we op a nc - on at is re st to he is - on at rs ng on .
et us te is od l ( x ) in ms of z ( x ) , he th ge ed gh ay - l ( x ) = pk og p ( |z ( x ) ) = ng ed to x .
pk og p ( zk ( x ) ) .
we ct an te er
th ( x ) = x
og p ( zj ( x ) ) + ( j , k )
ed by a ty on .
re , ( j , k ) ep - ts a st or ng a nt el ex an he ne ed by ay ng .
in ur se we ne ( j , k ) = , if j is ot an te el or of k , ( j , k ) = 23 , if j = k nd et ( j , k ) to a nt in ll er es .
we se he nt 23 ng to on he ng ng : en ur rs ld of ew , he ct ll be ly wo rs ay in er to t ly .
at at ce , ng to a ng el ts in a an ce of a ly 23 rs ar to he on he ra is ng .
ar he um , he og od of he se el is ly ic .
an be en to th he od er gh is ld ce cy .
us , he al ty on es an ce or se es .
is on ed he ic te ce nd nt el .
ce in is el is on - al ue to he gh - al re of he ce of he ne - ic on ce x nd he ed ty ce v .
is is ly ng or ur al - me ng ve , re ve ce is le .
we ow be ow to rm nt ap er - ce at ch me .
we ck is em in wo ys : ( 23 ) a el - ed nt ly es he ke - od on by ll - ng nd ( 23 ) , a ta - en rt es he nt z to ze ts of he er te en le .
or he er nt , we ve an te ce re ed ce ga - on to te ly es ch re en ed to ze he el - ed hm .
el ( id : 23 ) ed ll ng ch ( hc )
to ly ze he od , we ly a se - to - ne ll - ng re .
we rt om he se of
t |v i
ic in ch es he st dy ts , nd ed rd he bs .
or a le on i of he te ce , we le a id of es ut he an of 23 ) .
or ch le of vt , we ly te he te xt om 23
he od of is te is ed , nd he st ne of he id en .
he re an en ly be ed to a er er - al ut he ue en at he er el .
or le , to ze he x is of he is , we ht le es en - 23 to 23 at ls of 23 rs .
he ne - t of ch a re is at it is ly el .
we an nd a ch of es to he pu , ch lu - es ll of em nd ns ir ts .
we se a er - ic ng gy er ic ng se it ws re on nd re es he ed of od on .
ce on ( ep )
a ty of ts an se he el - ed ch to il .
ne em is at st on es nt mo - on ur .
ly , on an se he te of he te of en ts to ft .
ly , he od on as es at re lt to te .
we re - re se a ta - en re at es is - ng ns or dy ts in er to nd ly es .
he ee ps in is re re ( i ) to fy si - le dy rt ns om he nt ge ge , ( ii ) to te he dy on x en le on - es en sh es nd rt ns nd ( ii ) to ne he st et of ch es .
23 . 23 dy rt on
we er he ve dy ts ad , ft nd , ht nd , ft ot nd ht ot .
he 3d ld ns of se ts ng to he nt on x of he dy re ed as pi , i ( 23 , .
te at we nt se ts by le es on he ce sh of he dy , ch at ll pi re ic ns of x .
he ta - en ns of dy ch we be in he re ed as pj , j ( 23 , .
, j ) , re j n an be an ry er ng on he rt or .
al dy ts as ll as he ns ve a ss nt ci , cj to ( ad , nd , f ot ) .
we in he dy rt ns ng he hm ed in ( 23 ) .
se ns re ed by a wo in he st ep al ts on he ed ce sh re ed om he ge ea - nt zt to rm a et of ct st ts .
is - ly ed rs re ed to es en - ed on he ts to ne to at dy rt ss ey ng to .
if he er is ly nt , he ea - re is ed as a on ( ee ( 23 ) or ls ) .
23 . 23 ic se cs
we ow ne a ic el , ed in ig .
23 , ng of he es vt , xt , 23 , 23 nd pj .
as - ng a ce en dy rt i nd on j , we ly he on el
pj n ( pi ( x ) , o ) .
we ld ow ke to te a ap te of xt nd vt ed on 23 nd pj .
is is lt se he te le pi is a ly on - ar on of x .
in er to te pi ( x ) we st ne he ld es w ( x ) , ch es he te on of ch dy rt .
en we rm pi om ts on in he sh to ts al on in he ld .
to le is em , we ve at xt is a in - ic on of vt nd 23
re , we an te pi as a on - ar on pi ( vt , 23 , 23 ) .
ur ch ll be to ze he on pi .
se he on p ( t| 23 ) is a ar an , ng pi ts in a ar an rk on .
ap ce on is el is sy , so we an ne an te of xp ( t| 23 , 23 , pj ) .
we ze ut is ti - te nd at he re il ce .
re re ny ys to ze pi .
we ly he un - ed rm ch is ed in he ed an er in a ar on .
he ic ch is to om - te ma ts om he or on on vt , ly he on - ar on to em , nd en te he lt th a ar an .
we it he al ls , ut it an be wn at is od es an te of he on at is re te an in - on gh ng an ic an .
to ze , en a wn ce en a nt in he ge nd a nt in he sh , we an rm te ap ce ng he hm st de - ed .
he hm is ed to ng ds or in - se cs ng on - ar st es , pt at it ms on ng he ed rm , nd it ts or ns on he es .
re 23
al el or he on of dy rt ec -
is us , nd if ot , ch ic dy rt it is so - ed th , ed by he dy rt ss of he ec - on .
is ts in a ge er of le na - ns .
ng ch ch on , ch es ng ll - ng , ld be ar oo me ng or a al - me em .
we re ne ns at re ar ny rt on in x st .
is ps ve ic is ed on he on at ve de - ns re ed st en he ll ng ch as st ck .
en ch a ss as ed , it is ed he he ve hm ll ct a rt ar om he on of ny rt in x st .
en he ll ng al - hm is ng ll , he rt ns ll be ar ir on in x st nd re an be ed .
we ne ns ar ny rt in x st se he rt rs an en se es .
he xt ep is to nd he ns to a et of te es .
a an - te ce ( ( pi , pj ) ) is ed or ch dy rt to ll ns th a ng ss , at is ci = cj .
or ce , a ce is ed or he ht nd to ll nd ns .
at is nt , we ve a te st of le re - es om ch we st se a et .
we ap - ch is em in a dy on .
we te gh ch le ce , nd ly ce pa - on , ed om x st to nd a ew or de
te x st by al ll - ng on he od
ct rt ns om zt
23 . 23 ta on nd ce
ne es at re dy ed
we ow ve he re hm or ng xt om 23 nd zt .
in is on , we ly me we re en a et of rt ns nd ir ed dy rt es , ( pj , cj ) .
he hm ns th an al ss x st et to 23 , ch is ly ed by ng
he hm ns by ng x st th he te om ed by ll - ng as ed in ec .
rt ns re en ed om he nt zt .
in ry , we ve to de or ch on er it
ce et of es ( ( pi , pj ) ) by ng hy -
op i = 23 to n
( a ) et x be he or de of ce on
ed om x st ed on ci
( b ) te x by al ll - ng on od ( c ) if od of x > x st , et x st to xc
re 23
ng hm .
hc + ep
on on ( ep ) ll ng ( hc ) ur ch ( ep )
ge or of nd th ng or on of ur ch ( ep ) w . r . t
st ce id
re 23
ng ts on al - ld st es , ed om st ex ( ft ) to st ex ( ht ) .
x ch es he nt ce ly .
ep us ws us to ke a ig mp in he te ce .
we en rt al ll - ng om x to ne it .
if he al od is er an x st , x st is ed th he se nd .
en is rs , he te on - ce is ed to be ed .
he ly ct of is on he nt ns of he hm is gh ts te of x st .
he ce is ot ed ng nt es of ep , so at nt , si - ly er , es an de er es .
we ve ed at is hm ly ts or - ct es se he te ng om ir on ll be ed by he od on .
pu - ed on
al al ls le he nt on of re an 23 23 es er nd on he pu .
he in ns re to ze sm nd to ze ng nd ng ge ts of ta .
he sh is ly ed ng ic ge on nd ed to he pu ng th he rt ts or ch ex .
we se a om ng er - ex er at ws us to ly ad he ma - on es or he re on in er to er he re dy , ut ng ny er ta .
an - er er es he ed ay th ( ce he z - er as ed on ) nd ts he al st on as ed ve .
se ng ra - ns to he pu es a in cy , we ss a ch of es ly .
we er a id of es ed on a le re .
is re is en ed st he on in el or ch le .
by ng at he ns of he id re a er of wo , we an it he lt - in ty of he pu to te a ip - ed re .
a ip - ed re is ne ch ns ns of lf at ly er ns , ch ed by ng ls at er
ns .
by ng a ar ip - ap el , we an ly ad ut he ge ts of ch te , ne er el , ch is he um nt of ta we an er ck to he pu .
he ed hm as ly ed in ++ nd ed on al es .
he al of is ri - al on is to ow at
ur ed em is le to te he se nd on of a an er me ng ly a am of th es ,
ng es ng ep on ed dy ts ly es ce er st ng lo -
he ed gy on ( eq .
23 ) ms he
ly ed el - se gy on , nd
he em ns se to al - me at 23 es er ec -
to is nd , we ve ed a ed st ta et , at ws ve is of he ng er - ce .
he ta et , ch is le ly as a rk ng th ur ts ( 23 ) , ts of 23 al - ld th - ge es of ng ty ng om rt es th le - mb ns to er es ng st ks , gs , lf - ns nd ll - dy ns .
ur on of om - ty , gh ve , es th he th of he ce , nt of on , ed of on , er of dy ts ng ly , nd on ut he al is .
he th ge am is ed ng a er 23 me - of - ht ra , ch as et to rd ll - me ed ty es nd th at 23 ps nd a on of 23 23 ls , ch we ub - le to 23 23 ls in er to ke ge of he pu re ly .
in on to he am of th im -
te ng or
ge or , hc ge or , ep ax or , hc ax or , ep
re 23
a al on in ch ta - en ce is al or ng ss ( pt om eq .
ft : ee ry es om he is ce .
el - ed ch ( op ow ) es ck of he is ng , ce he rm as ed .
ur ed er at es om - up ce ut dy ts ( om ow ) is le to re he st ng rm .
he ht am ws he me on in ms of al ng or ( ee xt ) .
es , we ed he ns of 3d rs ed to he ts dy ng a al ve er on re em .
se ed er ns ve as he nd th in ur or ic .
ly , we on - er he ng on cs
ax = xi mi || ,
re m is he er of le on - re rs , mi re he ue 3d ns nd mi re he ng 3d ns on he ed ce sh of he ed on .
gh al on , we nd at al er rs mi || of 3m or er an be er - ed as ly ed rs , ce is ds to he te cy of he ed nd th ta .
on he er nd , er rs of 3m or er an be ed as ng es .
in er to te he ss of he on of el - ed nd ta - en es , we ow he ts of wo ms in on to ur ed go - hm on is ve et .
he hm ed ep ts of ur ll hm th al ll - ng
ed .
it ly es es ed by ep , nd ps he ne th st od .
he hm la - ed hc ts of st he el - ed ll - ng al - hm ne .
we te at he sh el or ll go - ms as ed mi - ly ng a re er er .
he nt ns re ed ng he pe hm ( 23 ) .
re 23 ws al ts on ur ta et or ll ee ms .
in he op el , we ow he rs of ll ms .
he ts ow at he ta - en od in on ( ep ) ms ar se an he er wo ap - es .
se of he gh or of he ta - en al - hm ne , in he ng ts we ly er he el - ed hm nd he ed hm .
in he om el , we ze he ce in or en he ed ch ( ep ) nd he el - ed ap - ch ( hc ) .
in ll he es , he ed ch ms st or ly ll .
it is ng to te at on he er es ( ft de ) , he ce in ce is re ed .
to ze is in re il , we er a ng pt om ce 3a st , ly ed en -
is ng as ed in he ft el in ig .
he ht el in is re ws he ce of he or - cs om - ng he el - ed nd ed hm on he ex - pt .
in he ng , he ng rm es om - ly ed , ed by ng ly rd .
he ax re ( ax or in he am ) ls at ce he ll - ng er es ck , it er rs .
ur ed ch is le to in nd he de nd on - ue .
he ft el in ig . 23 es is ng ee ed es om he ce .
he op ow es at he el - ed hm ly es he ms , as ur hm is le to nd he rm er an oc - on nd ch he ng ge of he is ve .
he re so es gh en es om he ed dy ts he ns at he hm ed , nd ow is es it to se ce on to ll lf ck on ck .
ly , we so ed he ts of od ng on he ce of he ms .
we nd at he th od ed he ce in ms of ge or ss ll es nd es by ut 23 nt or he el ed hm nd 23 er - nt or he ed hm .
he ct at it ed he ed ch re ay be a lt of he ct at he on is ot ys se gh to in ck th he on - th od on .
in ms of cy , th ms re se , gh he ll - ng ch is re nt .
he el - ed hm an at ut 23 es er nd , as he ed hm an at 23 es er nd .
ns nd re rk
he us al of te al - me ng of hu - ns nd er ed es is ne at as ed rs or ny rs ue to he ge er of se - ul ns .
th he id , pu - ed ng ch ed in is er , we ve to ve de a ge ep rd , ut re in re es to me .
me es de ed es , ck - ng re an ne on at a me , ng he ed ur - er , nd ly ic el on .
er , it ld be ng to te al ng al - es ch as or as or to ly he ed ch - gy to eo on ps .
ts .
is rk as ed by sf ( ss 23 ) , ri ( 23 ) , nd he ng ny .
