ny al - ld ns re al in re , ng of a et of ts ed to ch er in ex ys .
is er es on ng he ce nd he pe of ks en es in ch ns .
we ly he al ov rk rk of ar et al .
to ne a nt is - ic el er he re nk ph ty es nd ks .
he on of he mn hm to is sk es he on of ic ns er ph es .
we ly is od to wo ew al ts , ne ng ty es , nd he er a al rk .
we ow at he ve on ch of ns , nd he on of ph ns er nk ls , de nt ts in cy er at on , ch ts to ct ch nk in on .
ny al ld ns re ly ed , ng es of le es at re ed to ch er gh a rk of nt es of ks .
ch ta es ew es to ne ng .
ne ge es om he sk of ng ch es re ed to ch rs nd at re he es of se ps .
or le , in a ta et ng of a et of ed ty es , we ht nt to ct ot st ch ge gs to a or nd ch to a nt , ut so ch or is ch ts or .
in me es , he ce of a ip ll be ed by he ce of a nk en he es , nd we ll ve ly to de er he nk ts an or - ee ip .
in er es , we ht ve to er he ry ce of a nk om ct ce , ch as a ge er of co - ed rs .
in a ry nt on , we ht nt to ct ks ng on of ls in in st es .
ne le ch to is sk is to er he ce nd / or pe of he nk ng ly es of he ly ed es nd of he nk lf .
or le , in ur ty le , we ht ry to ct nd fy he nk ng he ds on he wo es , nd he or ds on he nk ( if nt ) .
is ch as he ge at it es to a le on sk nd we an ly rd ne ng es .
er , it ly es a ch ce of on at is ue to is sk he ph re of he nk ph .
or le , a ng or of an or - ee nk en a or nd a nt is he ct at ey ly te in al ts .
in al , he nk ph ly ts on ns of ns en he es in he in .
ng se ns to on ld ow us to de a ch er on or ks .
in is er , we le is em ng he al ov rk ( mn ) me - rk of ar et al .
we se is rk to ne a le ic el er he re nk ph , ng th ct ls ( en nt ) nd ks en
ts .
he el rs re ed ly , to ze he ty of he ( ct nd ) nk ls en he wn es ( e . g . , he ds on he ge , hy - ks ) .
he ed el is en ed , ng ic ce , to ct nd fy ks ng ny ed es nd ks .
23 nk on a al in is ed by a al ma , ch es a et of ct es nd es or em .
in ur eb le , we ve a ge pe , re ch ge as a ry - ed te or ch rd in he ry , ng er he ge ns he rd .
it so as an te ng he ss of he ge , e . g . , a rs ge , a ts ge , tc .
to ss he nk on em , we ed to ke ks st - ss ns in ur el .
ng ( 23 ) , we ce to ur ma ct es at nd to ks en es .
ch nk ct is ed th a le of ty ts ( 3; : : : ; ok ) at te in he nk .
or le , a nk nk ct ld be ed th a ir of es he ng ge , nd he ed - to ge , ch re rt of he nk on .
we te at nk ts ay so ve er s; e . g . , a nk ct ht ve es or he or ds on he nk .
as ur al is to ct nk ce , we st er ks at st nd ks at do ot .
we re er a et of al ks en es .
ch al nk is ed th a le of ty ts , ut it ay or ay ot ly st .
we te is nt ng a ry ce te ts , ch is ue if he nk en he ed es ts nd se se .
in ur le , ur el ay in a al nk or ch ir of es , nd he ue of he le : ts es er he nk ly ts or ot .
he nk on sk ow es to he em of ng he ce es of se nk ts .
an on i es he et of es of ch ty pe nd he es of ll es or ll of he es .
or le , an on of he xt ma is a on of es , ng ir ls , he ds ey in , nd ch ks en em st .
a al on es he et of ts , nd es or me of he es .
in he nk on sk , we ht ve ll of he es or ll of he ts , pt or he ce es or he ks .
ur al is to ct se er es en he st .
23 al ov ks we in th a ef ew of he rk of ed al ls or ov ks ( 23 ) , nd ir on to al ns ed in ( 23 ) .
et v te a et of te om es nd v an nt of es to v .
a ov rk or v es a nt on er v .
it ts of an ed cy ph , nd a et of rs ed th he ph .
or a ph g , a ue c is a et of es vc in g , ot ly al , ch at ch i; vj 23 vc re ed by an ge in g .
ch ue c is ed th a ue al ( id : 23 ) c ( vc ) , ch is a on - ve on ed on he nt in of vc .
ng c ( g ) be he et of es , he ov rk es he on p ( v ) = 23 z 3c ( g ) ( id : 23 ) c ( vc ) , re z is he rd ng on on .
a al ov rk ( mn ) ( 23 ) es he es nd ls en es of ed es at a te el , so a le el es a nt ri - on or ny on of es om he ma .
ns fy he es ng he on of a al ue te , ch fy es of es in he on ng a al ry ge .
( ee ( 23 ) or ls . )
or le , if we nt to ne es en he ss ls of ed es , we ht ne a ue te at es to ll rs 23 , 23 nd nk of es
ge , ge nd nk , ly , ch at nk ts om 23 to 23
we en ne a al te at ll be ed or ll rs of es ry nd ry or ch 23 nd 23
en a ar on i of he ma , he mn m es an ed ov rk er he es of es in i , in he us ay .
he es in he ed rk re ed by he ue es c .
we ve ne ue or ch c 23 c ( i ) , nd ll of se es re ed th he me ue al ( id : 23 ) c .
ar et al .
ow ow he rs of an mn er a x ed et of ue es an be ed om ta .
in is se , he ng ta is a le on i , re he me rs re ed le es ce or ch nt ty at es a re .
a ce of ue al rs w es a ar mn , ch es a ty on pw er he ed ov rk .
nt nt er w is ed to ze he al od of he et ri - es en he ed es in he ng et .
he nt es a rm ch is he or ty of he et es en he ed , se on es at we un ic ce er he re ed ov rk .
in al ns , is rk is ly ge nd ly ed , ng ct ce le .
ar et al .
re se he se of ef on ( 23 , 23 ) .
23 ph es in a nk ph
he re of nk hs as en ly ed to er ce of ts in ic ns ( 23 ) nd xt ( nk ( 23 ) , bs nd es ( 23 ) ) .
al ks ve en ly ed in ir wn ht in er to fy ds in al ns ( 23 ) .
nk ph re as so en ed to ve nt on ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
in ur ts , we nd at he on of a al ge th a ob - ic al el es a ry le rk or ng ex ns on in al hs .
st , as ed by or et al .
( 23 ) , re re en or - ns en he es of es nd he ns in ch ey te .
or le , in a al rk , le th he me by re re ly to be ds .
we an so it ns en he ls of es nd he on pe .
or le , ly ts an be ng ts in a se .
we an ly re ch ns by ng es at ve se es .
ly , se es re ve en en es re ot ed in he st ta .
or le , if we ve ce ng an or - ee ip , ur ty at x is a ty er es , nd by ur ef at x es in a ng nt nk th me ty z es .
we so nd it ul to er er ph es er he nk ph .
ne ul pe of te is a ty te , re ts at re a in ph - ed ty re re ly to ve he me el .
er , or le , a or x nd wo er es y nd z .
if xs ge ns y nd z in he me xt , it is ly at he x - y on nd he y - z on re of he me e; or le , if y is or xs ee , en ly so is z .
ur rk es se ns ly , by ng se es en he te on es .
er ul pe of ph te es ty ns , re he es - ce of an a - b nk nd of a b - c nk es ( or es ) he od of an a - c nk .
or le , ts en st in es ht by ir or .
te at is pe of on ot be ed or st ng se es .
by ng es er es of ns , we an re ch ns as ll .
we an te en re ed ns , ut of se we re ed by he ty of ef on to le up as we ce er es nd er ps in he ov rk .
we te at ur ty to el se re ex ph ns es on ur se
on & ad
re 23 : ( a ) on on th ty ls en .
al ls on ge ed er an he ne at el .
( b ) ty el on .
al el gh ed ly er .
( c ) on on ut ty ls .
al ls ed er st of he me , en gh re re ls at me ls ed se .
of an ed ov rk as ur ic el .
in st , he ch of or et al .
es ed al ls ( an ks nd ms ( 23 ) ) to re - nt a ic el of th ns nd es .
ir ch ly es he ce of nk ce on es of es .
ut he nt at he ob - ic cy ph be a ed ic ph es it rd to ee ow we ld nt he ph ns ed ve .
or le , or he ty rn , we ht er ly ng he on es en nk ce es ly .
er , it is ot ar ow we ld en ze a nk ce ri - le or a nk at is ve in le es .
ee ( 23 ) or er on .
23 ts on eb ta
we ed nd ly ed a ew al et ed by kb ( 23 ) .
ur et ts of er ce nt es om 23 ls : rd , ey , nd it .
a al of 23 of es re ed to ne of ht es : ty , nt , ch st , ff , ch up , ch ct , se nd on ( on rs to ny ge ty at is ot a ch up ) .
ed es , ch re ed by an ty ut re ot he in ge or at ty , re ly ed to at ty .
he ge on of es ss ls is : on ( 3% ) , nt ( 3% ) , ch up ( 3% ) , ty ( 3% ) , se ( 3% ) , ch ct ( 3% ) , ch st ( 3% ) , nd ff ( 3% ) .
we ed a et of te ks en es ed on ce of a on en em .
ne pe of ce or a on is a nk om an ty ge or ne of ts ed es to he ge of er ty .
a nd pe of ce is a al nk : we ed a er of es to ch ge ng he ge le , he or xt of ng ks , nd il es of he ty ed .
ng an as of a ge on er ge es a al nk .
he ng et of 23 te ks re ed as ng to ne of ve on es or ( ty , nt ) , em - er ( ch up / ct , nt / ty / ch st ) , ch ( ty / ch ci - st / ff , se ) , ta ( nt , se ) , rt - of ( ch up , ch oj ) or ne , ng at he nk es ot nd to ny of se ns .
he ed es or ch ge re he ds on he ge lf nd he ta - ds on he ge he ds in he le , on gs , rs to he ge om er es .
or ks , he ed es re he or xt , xt st re he nk ( nk or al nk ) , nd he ng of he on in ch he nk rs .
ur sk is to ct he on pe , if ny , or ll he te ks .
we ed wo gs or ur ts : th ge es ed ( in he st ta ) nd ge es ed .
or ll ur ts , we ed on wo ls nd ed on
he ng ol .
ed ty ls .
we st nt ts or he ng th ed ge at - es .
en he ge ls , we an le ut ny le s; he ng el wn ng he te ks is : ne ( 3% ) , er ( 3% ) , rt - of ( 3% ) , or ( 3% ) , ch ( 3% ) , ta ( 3% ) .
re is a ge ge of le ls at ne an ly to is sk .
we ed a
et of ls at we lt ed me ge of ns at ed in he ta .
nk - at is ur ne el , ng ks ne at a me ng al lo - ic on .
is is a ng er , nd ts ce is ve th er rs ( e . g . , rt or es ) .
he es ed by is el re he ls of he wo ed es nd he ds on he ks ng om ne ge nd ts ed es to he er ge .
he er of es is nd 23
he al ls ry to ve on he ne el by ng he ac - ns en ns nd ng ns ly .
he on el es es er ns se ks ar ly in a on on a ge .
is el es to re he rn at ly ed es ( e . g . , es , rs of ts ) re en ed er on a ge .
is rn is a pe of ty te , as ed in on 23
he ad el is a pe of ty te , as ed in on 23
ly , we ce es er ts of ee te ks at rm a le in he nk ph .
he on + ad el es he es of he wo ls ve .
as wn in ig .
23 ( a ) , th he on nd ad ls rm he at el , nd he ed el as an ge cy in of 23 : 3% , or 23 : 3% ve on in or .
as we ly ve ee ns ( ne or ch ol ) , we ot ly ze he al ce of is nt .
as an le of he ng es de by he ls , we nd a nt - or ir at as ed by he at el as ne ( re is ly a le nk om he ts ge to he rs ) ut ly ed by th he ec - on nd ad ls .
he on el es a ph on he ts ge ng is ch , th a on of ks to is ch ps nd he nk to is or .
ng he rs of he on el ue , we nd at he el ed at it is ly or le to on ir ch ps nd rs in he me on .
by ng is nd , he on el is le to se he ce of he nt - or on .
he ad el ts he me on in a nt ay .
ng he me le , he ad el es se of he on at th he nt nd he er ng to he me ch up , nd he nt ed a ss ht by is or .
it is nt to te at ne of he er ns re ed in he st ta , ut er he el ps ts es .
ed ty ls .
en he ls of es re ot wn ng ns on , we ot le ut le ns or te ks ed on he ls of ng es .
us , we ve ny re te ks at do ot nd to ny of ur on es ( e . g . , ks en an on nd a nt ) .
is es he ce of ns a ry ow ty nt , th he ng wn ng he al ns : ne ( 3% ) , er ( 3% ) , rt - of ( 3% ) , or ( 3% ) , ch ( 3% ) , ta ( 3% ) .
in on , en we ct a ov rk in ch ge ls re ot ed , he rk is ch er nd er , ng he ( te ) ce sk ch er .
us , in on to ls at ry to ct ge ty nd on ls ly , we so ed a wo - se ch , re we st ct ge es , nd en se he ed ls as es or he el at ts ns .
or ng ge es , we ed wo ls .
ty - at el is ti - al ic on at es ds nd ta - ds om he ge nd ts ed es in te gs of ds .
he er of es is ly 3; 23
he gh - rs el is a al el at ts er pe of ty te : es
3% ( id : 23 ) ed
3% ( id : 23 ) ed
fg lm bc ss
re 23 : ( a ) ge on / ll en nt or 3% , 3% , 3% ed ks .
ge on / ll en nt or ch ld of ol es at 3% ed ks .
th ar ls en ng to he me ry or ly ed es ( ch up / ct , or / se ) .
or ch ge , wo es th ls st in it is - ce re ed as rs , nd we ed se es en or - ng es .
23 ( b ) ws at he rs el ly ms he at el ss ll ls , by an ge of 23 : 3% cy in .
en he ge es , we an ow ly he nt ls or nk ca - on .
us , he ed ( at / at ) el es he ty - at el to fy he ge ls , nd en he nk - at el to fy he te ks ng he ng en - ty ls .
he ed ( rs / at ) el es he rs el to fy he ty ls , nd en he nk - at el to fy he ks .
he ed ( gh - rs / on ) el es he rs to fy he ty ls nd en he on el to fy he ks .
we so ed wo ls at ct ge nd on ls ly .
he nt + rs el is ly he on of he rs el or ge es nd he at el or on ls en he ge es .
he nt + rs + on el ly es he es at ed in he on el en ks at ar ly in a on on a ge .
we in he nt ls to ct th ge nd on ls ly .
as he on of he ne on is so ge , we se he ty of ne to ne a on - ll ve .
if is ty is ss an me ld , we ct he st ly el ( er an ne ) , se we ct he st ly el ( ud - ng ne ) .
as al , we rt ts at he on - ll en nt on he st ta .
23 ( c ) ow he en ts ed by he nt ls on he ee ls .
al ls , th ed nd nt , id er an at ls on he av - ge .
er , ce es om ol to ol nd or th nt nd ed ls , ce on ne of he ls is se an at of he at el .
23 ts on al rk ta
he nd et we ed as en ed by a al te at a ge ty at ts an ne ty or ts ( 23 ) .
ng er es , it ws ts to er on ut es , te ts of ir ds nd se he al et - rk .
al on es ce , er , or nd ar , as ll as te ts , ic , ks , al es , tc .
we ed on he sk of ng he nd - ip ks en ts om ir al on nd a et of ir ks .
we ed ts ng in en nt es or ms nd ed he ta to he ip ks ly in ch ce , ng er - ce ks om he ta to te nt ng / st ts .
ch ce as ut 23 ts nd an ge nt ts ut 3% of is or er se - es as ds .
we ed an ht - ld in - st it , re we ed on en es nd ed on wo .
ng ks en wo ts om st al on ne is a
ry lt sk , so we ed a re ic ng , re me on of he ks is ed in he st ta , nd an be ed as ce or ng he ng ks .
we ed he ng ns of ed ks in he st ta : 3% , 3% , nd 3% .
he ed ks re ed at om , nd he ts we rt re ed er ve ds of se om on ls .
ng st he ed on of ks , we ed he ng at es : or ch nt , he on of ts in he ce at st im / er nd he on of ts he / he s; or ch ir of ts , he on of er ts ey ve as on ds .
he es of he ns re ed to ur ns .
se es re me of he al re nd es en ks : ts ho st ( or re ed by ) ny ds in he ed on of he ks nd to ve ks in he ed on as ll .
re ly , ng ds in on es he od of a nk en a ir of ts .
he at el es ic on th he ve es as ll as al on ut ch er .
in on to al cs of he wo le , we so ed a re or ch ch of a ic , or le , th le re er ce rs or th re en .
he ty el es a pe of ty te , ng es be - en ch ir of ks ng om ch on .
ly to he at el , se es de a re or ch ch of he cs of he wo al ds .
is el es he cy of a on to ve ds ho re ny er - cs ( en gh he on ht ot ss em ) .
or le , a nt ay be ds th al cs rs , en gh he is ot a cs or lf .
we so ed ls at ed ty es , ut he te ce th 23 - es en ed to ge or ed ic ts .
23 ( a ) es he ge on / ll nt ed by he nt ls at he ee nt gs of ed ks .
23 ( b ) ws he ce on ch of he ht ds ng wo es ch .
ng a ed t - st , he om - ty el ms at th p - es 23 : 23 , 23 : 23 nd 23 : 23 ly .
23 on nd ns in is er , we er he em of nk on in al ns .
we us on he sk of ve nk on , re we re ly ng to ct nd fy an re et of ks in a nk ph .
we ow at he se of a ic el er nk hs ws us to nt nd it ng ph ns in he nk ph .
ly , we ve nd wo es of ns at em to be al in al es .
ty es te he on of ks or ts at re a in ph - ed ty ( e . g . , ks at re a on nt ) .
ty es te es of ts nd ks ed in a le .
we ow at he se of se ns ly ve he on cy er at ls .
al ov ks re ot he ly od ne ht er ng to he nk on nd on sk .
we ld , or le , ld a nk or at rs er ks in he ph by ng ph es to at es ( 23 ) , as we id in he al rk ta .
as ur ts ow , en th se es , he ve on ch rk er .
er ch is to se al rs ch as ts of ve ic ng ( 23 ) .
ly , er , se ds ve en ed to he em of ng or ng a le nk at a me .
it is ot ar ow ll ey ld nd to he sk of ly ng an re nk ph .
ly , we ld ly he ed rm rk of ( 23 ) .
er , as wn in ( 23 ) , he ly ed ns rm ly er an ly ed ms en on he er ty on sk .
re , as we ed , he rm rk ot nt ( in ny al ay ) he pe of ph ns at em nt in nk ph ta .
re , he mn rk ms ch re
te or is sk .
gh he mn rk ed ly ll on is sk , re is nt om or nt .
ne of he ey ms ng he ty of ch is he ce on ef on , ch en es ot ge in re ex ms .
is em is ly te in he nk on em , re he ce of ll al ks ds to ly ed ov ks th ny rt ps .
is em an be ed th cs at us he ch on ks at re le ( as we id in a ry le ay in he ge ts ) .
a re ng on ld be to op a re ed te ce / ng hm .
ur ts se a et of al ns at we ve ed to be ul in he ns at we ve ed .
er , ny er ch nd ng ns re le .
us , in he al ng , en re so an in er ks , he ue of re on is al .
it is re nt to re he em of ic re on , as in ( 23 ) .
ly , we ve at he em of ng nk hs as us er ap - ns , ng : ng es of le nd al re of ga - ns , ng le or ts at ay in ey es , ng nt nd re ns , nd re .
ts .
is rk as ed by nr ct 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 er as ld am .
el as ed by a el ad .
ip .
