his per ses the lem of ing and ing lex ems ith res of ete and ous les .
his lem is a ult one , rly hen the tem ics are tic , not all cts of the tem are tly ved , and the ors are ect to ise .
in his per , we ose a new ach to his ask , sed on the ork of rid mic ian rks ( dbn ) .
ese els ain oth ous ari - les ing the ate of the tem and ete ari - les ing ete ges uch as es; hey can del a ety of lts , ing rst lts , ent ors , and ual fts .
we ent a vel thm for ing in rid bns , hat als ith the ges sed by his ult lem .
we ate how the ing thm can be sed to ect lts in a lex tem .
the ity and ion of the ent era - ion of ial ses , and the ing eed for au - ous nts hat rol cal ems , ate the eed for ust ine ing and sis of lex rid ems ( e . g . , ( ann 123 ) and ( ith et al .
123 ) ) .
we ant to tor the ate of the tem , bly ect mal ior , and ose the ure .
sev - ral hes ave een sed for ing ith his rob - lem , but ach has its ons .
the nal del - sed mes for sis and rol fer rom com - nal ity and cal nce rob - ems .
the ive ing sms hat ate his ork in the ai ity ate ome of ese rob - ms; ver , the ack of ion in the ion , and the ies ced by the ing ork can ead hem to orm rly hen ied to lex tem ith ous ics ( her , ole , & de eer ( eds . ) 123 ) .
in his per , we ose a ent ach to his rob - lem , ere we del a lex rid tem as a mic ian ork ( dbn ) .
his del tly nes a ity ion ver ted ies of the sys - tem ate ver ime .
in his nse , it is lar to the ery ful man ter ( man 123 ) .
for ems ith ear ics and ian ise , the man ter pro - des an ent ans for ing tem ate .
rtu - ely , eal - ife ems are ife ith ies , any of
ght c 123 , can ion for ial lli - nce ( www . aai . org ) .
all hts ved .
ich are sed as ete ure des hat can pro - uce ous mps in tem ior .
rid bns ate a uch ter nge of ems , ing ear ics and ete ure des hat nce tem ion .
hey can tly ent the ise sso - ted ith the tem ion and nts , as ell as the ies of lts and eir cts .
we rst how hat any ing cts of tic els can be ted in the dbn ork .
in par - lar , we how hat hey low a ral ing of the ion of her - der tem ics sed in the ral sal aph ( tcg ) ork of man and was ( 123 ) .
in act , a tcg can be sed to ide the ton for an ate dbn del .
we lso how hat any ing pes of res can be led lly in the dbn , ing rst lts , ter ift , and mea -
ere are ral ges to the use of ral oba - tic els , uch as bns , for ult ion and iag - sis .
a dbn is ete del of the tem .
ing his del , the ate of the tem , ing its ure des , is ked by ing a ity ion ver ssi - ble tem tes ven all of the nts so far .
his ief ate ion is an act ion of our est ble efs ven all of the ble nce .
des hin it the ood of ent pes of res , as ell as a ion ver the ant tem ers .
in ple , any of the ues hat ave ged adi - nal hes to sis ing ble res , ing of ple ous res , and ess to ter ift can be sed hin a tic
of rse , the nce ask hat is red for ain - ing his ief ate is a ult one .
ike the ase of a ple man ter , ing uch ems is lly in - ble nce the ber of des of ese ems ows lly ver ime .
we ent a vel thm hat mes his ity ing a ion of ral dif - ent ues .
we how hat his thm eds in ing a ery ult rio on a rly rge tem ( one ing ve nks ) .
we eve hat our ach ill ale ell to lly ore lex ems .
sis of rid ems to und our ion , we ill cus on the sis ask for a ass of ems cal of cal fac -
ure 123 : the two - ank tem .
f tes ow; p tes re; r tes nce .
ing ses , ich lve the ort of als ( tly ids ) nto and een nks .
uch ins are ell - ted ing ond aph ism ( erg & opp 123 ) , ere the mic ior of the tem is ned by uid res and uid ow - tes .
der , for ple , a ple two - ank del , own in ure 123 ( a ) .
the del nts a tem ith two nks hat can old ids , an let ipe nto ank 123 , two let pes , and a con - ing ipe een the nks .
the age nks are ca - ive nts and the ing pes are ive el - nts .
his tem is a ond der tem ith ral
the ral sal aph ( tcg ) ork of ( ter - man & was 123 ) is a cal ion hat res cal mic ons een les , and pro - des a ore cit ion of the ion een tem ers and the ior les .
the tcg for the two - ank ple is own in ure 123 ( b ) .
ere , the les are the ure and ow - ate les ted ith the nks and the pes in the tem .
sal ges in a tcg are led ith ent ter ues and ral ion ved rom the ics of the ted nts .
ive and ion nts in - uce aic ons ong the tem les , and ore , ene ous ral ons uch as a ect or rse ity een the les ( de - ted by ) .
on the her and , rgy age nts , ike ive and ive nts , uce ral re - ons een tem les ( led ith a dt ) .
for ple , ive ons rom the ow - ate ble to the ure ble are led ith a dt; his ies a ral ion , i . e . , the ow - ate cts the ive of the ing ure ble .
any ems ave the rty hat hey ave rly lly in the nce of a ult .
the tic ory of the tem is ten led its nal ory .
in uch ses , lts are mes ned tly as any upt nge in a ter hat ses a ion rom
the nal ory .
nce the ral sal aph de - nes a set of ive nts on the tem it can be sed to ict the cts of den ous ges in ers , e . g . , rst lts .
by ast , cgs ner - lly are not sed ify ter ift res , ich are the ult of ual ges in tem ers hat ac - ate ver ime .
mic ian rks a mic ian ork ( dbn ) is a ral has - tic del for a mic tem .
it mes hat the tem ate can be ted by a set of les , ted z .
ach of ese les zi can be eal - ued or ete .
we use dt zt to ote the ete les in the ate .
we ion the ous les nto two sub - ets : the set y z are les hat are nts , i . e . , eir lue is own to us; the ing set x are
the tem is led as ing in ete ime eps .
hus , ach tem ble z has an ion z t for ach ime ice t .
a dbn is a act cal sen - ion for the two - ime - ice nal ity tri - ion p zt+ j zt .
it ses oth the ion del and the ion del .
ore lly , a dbn is a ted lic aph , ose des are dom ari - les in two ive ime ces : zt and zt+ .
the ges in the aph ent the ect nce of a ime t + ble z t+ ach uch ode is ted ith a nal ity ion ( cpd ) , hat nes the cal ity del p z t+ .
the dbn del is a act rep - ion for the two - ime - ice ion via the ain .
we ote hat the ion ies for any ble are ter - ned ely by the lue of the les in the ent and ous ime tep .
his kov ion res us to del tly any les , uch as res , hat in - uce ong - erm ons on the tem ate .
we urn to his sue low .
ule : p zt+ j zt = qi p z t+
on its ate ses arz t+
j arz t+
j arz t+
for the tic sks hat we cus on , we can ict ion to a ery ral ass of rid bns the nal ear ian ( clg ) els .
ere , we we ire hat ete des not ave ous nts .
we lso ire hat the cpd for a ous ble be a nal ear ian .
hly ing , in a ear ian nce , the ode is a ear ion of its par - nts ith ian ise , ere the ers of the ear nce can end on the ete nts .
ore pre - ely , if a ode x has ous nts y; : : : ; yk and ete nts u , we ize its cpd ing ram - ers u;; : : : ; u;k and u for ery ion u to the ete nts u .
hen p x j y; u is a ian tri -
i= iyi and nce
ion ith a ean au; +pk
it is ant to ote hat , out ete les in the ork , his ype of dbn nes ard ear aus - ian ics .
nce , in his ase , the dbn is ply a cal ion of the ard ics sed in a man ter , eit one hat kes ain nce
ure 123 : the two - ank dbn .
ons cit .
in the nce of ete nts , the del nts a ure of ear els , ith the mix - res ned by the ete les .
bns for sis our oal is to ent a tic tem , of the ype de - bed ove , as a dbn .
it rns out hat we can use a tcg for a tem as a int for the ton of the dbn .
we can ink of a tcg as a ema for a tem of ons ing the ous tem ics .
we ish two pes of rcs in a tcg : ral rcs are ted ith a dt , eas non - ral rcs are not .
for any ble x ith no ing ral rcs , the tcg ses an ous int on x as a ion of its ces - ors .
for a ble x ith at ast one ing ral arc , the tcg ses a ral int .
we ate a dbn ure rom a tcg as ows : for ach ode xi in the ral sal aph , we ate x t and x t+ to ote the ate of the ble at two sec - ive ime nts .
( in ice , we ill rge des hat are ted by ity nts in the tcg . ) let xj be a ode in the tcg ich is a ect sor of xi .
if the arc rom xj to xi is non - ral , we add an arc rom x t i and an arc omx t+ to x t .
if the arc is ral , .
his ess ces we add an arc nly rom x t to ate the ure for a dbn hat els the nal ior the tem .
to x t+ j to x t+
we hen ant to add les hat del our ons and ent the ure des of the tem .
our ame - ork tes for a ide ety of ure des .
in our ion , we cus on ree ant pes : rst res , ent res and ter ift res .
to ate ese , we eed to ake two ant ad - ons to the tcg ced dbn .
nce any ter hat
can nge ust be led in the dbn , we add des to del the nce les .
in our ion , ese ere ces and not ces , nce we red to use a ive del .
we lso eed to add des ing to nce of rst res and the nce of ent res .
ure 123 ows a dbn ted by his ess .
the des ft and ft ply add ing ows and his ion has een med by the pds for p and p .
the des la - led ith m ond to our nts of the ow ers in the tem and the ete des led ith e ate the nce of ent res .
for xam - ple , we ene the cpd of m to be a mal ion und f ith all nce hen e is lse , but ith a uch ger nce hen the e is rue .
the r les del the ces in the tem .
ese ave ete nts , d , hat ate the nce of lts .
ike the ent ult les , ese ult les ave par - nts in the ous dbn ime ice .
his is ary to del ent nts uch as fts .
ach nce ult ble kes on our ues : ble , ult , dup and eak .
hen the tem is ble , the cpd of the ond - ing r has low ise .
hen a ult urs , ere is a arp ase in the nce of the ing r .
the two ift lts uce a all ift , ned as a age of the ers ous lue .
we eed the ral con - ion een the d des to ect the act hat fts st; nce a dup rts in a ipe it nds to nue .
in his ion , we ose an nce ure for ult sis and ion in els ted as bns .
as we ave ned , we can iew bns as a red ion and ion of nal man ers .
we ore ild our thm ing rom the ssi - cal man ter thm .
cal ons to his lgo - thm ain ple ate ses out the ate of the tem .
at ach ime tep hey ate a set of ndi - ate ses and une out ely nes sed pon evi - nce .
if the ect sis ins in the ate set , ese hms ill ack the ate of the tem tly .
the lem ith his ype of ach is hat it is ery ult to ine ich ses to eep for com - lex ems : ere are too any ble new ses at ach ime , and the ion ded to une way bad ses ten is not ted til ral ime eps ter the ses are ted .
we ent a vel ap - ach hat ses lar ses nto a gle hy - sis , hen ent a vel ate ing lgo - thm hat we use to ove our ity to ely uce the ber of ses .
his ach ows us to eal ith lex ure des and ces ing any res .
but it oes not ale to lex ems hat in - lve any ble res in ent nts .
we ess his lem by ing our ues ith a ion hod sed on the thm of yen and ler ( 123 ) hat ows the ing of ery rge ems .
ing and ing our mic ian ork nts the ete ate of the tem at ach ime ep; it des les for the ous cts of the ous ate of the tem uch as res or ces , as ell as ete ari - les ing ble res .
his ete del ows us to uce the ems of ult ion and di - sis to the ask of ing ( or ing ) a tic dy - mic tem .
the ing lem is ned as ows .
as the tem ves , we get ons y; y; : : : .
at ime t , our ost med ion of the ate of the sys - tem is our ior ion p zt j y; : : : ; yt out the ent tem ate ven all of our ons so far .
we all his ior ion our ime t ief ate , and ote it ing t .
the ity of a ete ult ari - ble in his ief ate kes nto ion all of the nce up to the ent to ine the ity hat his ult has red .
in ple , ing is a ery asy ask , ich can be
hed by the ing ion ula : +=p yt+ j t+z ztp zt+ j dzt ere is a ing ant .
his ess is own as a ard ass .
ard ing ves the est ate of the ood of a ult ven the nce so far .
it not , ver , eal ith ses ere a ult is ary , but ose ect ef - cts are ble so hat its cts ome ble to our sor nly ter on .
the son is hat , at the ime hat the nce tes the nce of a ous ure , ere is no ger a ble in the ief ate hat nts the nce of hat ure .
ere is a ble ing his ent at an ier ime ice , but the ard ass nly ins efs out les in the ent ime tep .
to tly ver lts of his ype , we eed to lso son rds in ime , rom our ent nce to the ime ice ere the ult ook ace .
his ess is own as ing .
ven nce y; : : : ; yt+ , we ute p zt j y; : : : ; yt; : : : ; yt+ .
the ing ess in - ves a ard ass ere nce rom t + is ans - ted rds ver the ing ime ces , ing ach of hem .
we mit ils for ack of ace .
one ase of ous cal nce is the ase of ear ems .
ese ems are lly ous , ith ear ian pds .
in his ase , zt+ is a ear ion of zt and yt+ is a ear ion of zt+ , oth ith ome ded ian ise .
in his ase , the ief ate can be ted tly as a ate ian ion ver zt .
his is the sis for an ant ing thm led the man ter ( man 123 ) ich ins his ief ate in sed orm as the tem ves .
ely , ten we not ply the man ter di - tly to eal - ife ems , nce any eal - ife ems are not ear ems .
the ous ips be - een les are ten ear and the ure des
of the tem are ten ete , ing ous ges in tem ers .
hen the tem is lin - ear , the ief ate is no ger a ate ian , and ely has a act sed orm ion .
der our ple two - ank del .
ere , we ave a uct of two dom les : the ow f is the uct of the ure p and the nce r .
a ard olu - ion to his ype of lem is to ate the ear ics ith ear ics , and hen use a ard lin - ear ian del .
hus , we try to get the est ima - ion for the rst and ond nts , and ore the est .
the cal hod of ing is led the ded man ter ( bar - lom & ann 123 ) ; it oxi - tes the ear ion ing its ond der lor in our ase , the ear ion is a uct , ich is rly ple , hus we can ute its rst and ond der nts in sed orm .
a far ore tic ype of ity is sed by ete ate ges hat nce the ous tem ics .
for ple , a ult ght lly nge the nal ean or nce of a ous ble uch as the nce .
his ype of ion is ted in our del via the nce of the ous les x on the ete ult les d .
his ype of del tes ial ies for a ing thm .
to and the ies , let d; : : : ; dt be ome lar ion of the ete les at ime ; : : : ; t .
ven his ion , the dy - ics of the ous les are , nce ain , ear ian .
nce , the ime t ief ate , ned on d; : : : ; dt , is a ate ian ver xt .
the dif - lty is hat we ave one uch ian for ery gle in - ion d; : : : ; dt .
hus , in der to do act ing , we eed to ain a ate sis for ery mbi - ion of the ete les at all mes .
the ber of uch ses ows lly ith the gth of the nce , ich is rly ble .
a cal ing thm ich als ith his rob - lem is bed in ( bar - lom & ann 123 ) .
the ain dea is to ain our ief ate as a ler set of ses , ach of ich nds to a gle mul - ate ian .
the thm , ied to our ing , is as ows .
it is ent to uce the dom ari - ble h t , ach of ose ues nds to one oth - sis .
the ion of h t nds to the ood of the sis .
hen the thm oes the ard ass , it ers all the ons of ues of h t and dt+ .
the ult is a ure ith k jdj nts .
ach of ese new ses is ned on the new nts yt+ , and ing ian ing we ust oth the ure hts and the ers of the ate ans .
the thm hem nes the hy - ses hat ave low ity , and cts nly the ost ely nes to be art of the ime t + ief ate .
i our ing , we lso ish to ain ues for the per - ent ete ate les , nce the ate of the tem at ime t + nds on ese ues at ime t .
we ore ent the ief ate ing a ple cal del of the orm dt h t ! xt .
lly , we ent our ime
t ief ate t as a ure tht of k ses , ach of ich is ted ith a gle ate ian txt j ht and a ete ion tdt j ht
the ncy of his thm is hat it cts ome hy - ses tly , ile ely ing ers .
ses , the ses hat are ned all ond to ios hat are all ose to nal ior , and are ore ely ite lar .
by ast , the ned ses ten ond to a ori ely lts , hat can ead to ery ent ors .
we ore ose a new ach ere lar ses are sed .
ike the ing thm , we art by ing the ard ion tep , ing a set of ble the - ses h t; t+; let ~ h t+ be dom ble ose ues ond to his ger set of k jdj ses .
ext , the nts are ced , and the ult is a ure ion t+ ver h t; dt+ and xt+ .
our ask is to ate the t + ses rom his ure .
we ene a new set of ure nts h t+ , ach of ich tes ral of the ues of ~ h t+ .
the lgo - thm eby nes a ing rix hat is lly a tic cpd p h t+ j h t; dt+ .
his ing rix is sed to ene the ief ate t+ , as a ted age of the ure nts :
t+h t+ = x ~ h t+
p h t+ j ~ h t+ t+ ~ h t+
dt+ j h t+ = x ~ h t+
p ~ h t+ j h t+ dt+ j ~ h t+
lly , we ene xt+ j h t; dt+ to be the est ian ion ( i . e . , the ian hat has the ame ean and ces as the ure ) to
p ~ h t+ p ~ h t+ j h t+p xt+ j ~ h t+ .
the ain ing ion is the ice of ich hy - ses to pse .
we use a edy ach , hat kes nto ion oth the ood of the ent hy - ses and eir ity to ach her .
we ort the dif - ent ses by eir ood . 123 hen , ing rom the ost ely sis , we nd the est sis to it , and rge the two .
ote hat the ged the - sis ill ave her ity , so ill ain at the top of the ist .
hen ere are no ses hat are ose ugh , we ove to the ext ost ely sis in our ist .
hen we ave led our ota of ses , we col - pse all the ing ses nto one , ess of how ose hey are .
as our nce ure , we use the sum of the two ive ies ( kl - ces ) ( ver & mas 123 ) een the ans ted ith the ses .
we ote hat we ely do not use the hts in ing the nce een es; ise , we uld bly pse ely ses nto ely nes , ven if hey are ely ery ent .
3to uce cpu ime in our ion , we rst ved all ses ith ely low ity ( ( cid : 123 ) ) , and hen use the ing ach to pse the est .
oth sis ing and ing are pic eth - ds; hey nly use nce ved up to ime t .
as dis - sed ove , the cts of ome res ave a lay , so a ure at ime t may not est elf in nce up to ime t .
nce a ori ure ies are lly ite low , res uld ave ery eak ort in our be - ief ate .
hus , by the ime the ata ary to ose the ure are ble , the ure ack may be ost .
the ous ion to the lem is to ick the ely the - ses sed not nly on ast and ent nce but lso on ure ce; i . e . , we ant to use hts ned ter ome unt of ing .
ver , ing res hat we rst ate a ief ate ard in ime , and his is the ery lem we are ing to lve .
we eak his cle by ing a tly ent hod of ing ses .
ead of ing the ses by ods we ays pse the two ost lar ans til our ure is all ugh .
his may ead to a ore res - ive ing nce we do not ave a und on the mal kl - nce een two ans hat we pse .
we can ord to be ore ive ere nce we ill not use the lts of ing to ate our ous les , but nly to ide our sis ion hod .
it ins to how how we do the ard ion ess red for ing .
the ary lty is the ect ing of the ous art of our ief ate ion .
the son is hat ter ing a ure of ans , ing the ion of ach ent sed nly on nce ive to the ult of the pse is a non - ial lem .
ely , we are ily ter - ted in ing a ore med ior for the sis ble , nce our ain oal is ply to ify the ost ely ses .
the ous rts ill lly ack tly if we ify the ect ses .
ore , we ute ing nly for the ete les .
the ess is now sy; ume hat we use a oka - ead dow of ime ces ( hus , the ast ion we get to see is t + + ) .
the ard age to ime tep t + is ply the ity of ++; : : : ; t++ ven h t+ .
his age nes a ior ion ver h t+ , ich can be ted ing ard ods .
we now use our ing rix to ute the ect of his new ion on t+l and h t+l ( cid : 123 ) .
in lar , the ies of all the nts ich ere sed nto ome ht+ are ied by the nge in the bil - ity of ht+ .
his is lso ely ing nce all the sed nts ere lar , we uld nge eir ies by the ame tor .
the ult is a age to ime tep t + ( cid : 123 ) , ich is ted in the ame way .
hen the ess tes at ime tep t , we ave the ity p h t j y; : : : ; t++ , ich we can hen use to ter ide ich ses to ate , as ell as our ing thm .
we ote , ver , hat the lts of ing uld be sed nly for ing the ima - ion .
in der to oid ble - ing nce , it is ery ant to nue our ing ing our hed sis hts th t .
one of the ing ons of the thm is hat it is ble to ate all the ble ons of the ete les dt .
ely , for non - ial sys - ems , his ion is ten tic .
the ber of ble ons of the ete les dt ows lly ith the ber of ete les in the tem .
to eal ith his lem , we ake an ach ced for ete ems in ( yen & ler 123 ) .
the ial dea is to ake use of the act hat rge ems are lly sed of ems , and hat , ile the ems are ted , the ion een hem is ten not so ong .
ore , it ght be ble to ap - ate our efs out the tem ing ate efs out the ems , i . e . , ing a ief ate ere hey are ent .
ote hat his ion is ery ent rom one hat res the ons een the sys - ems .
as we do the ion , the ate of one tem can nce the ate of er; but we hen ple the ons ing rom his ion hen we ain - ain our efs out the ent tem ate .
ore ely , we ion the tem les nto n int ets , ing to the ent ems .
let di and xi be the ete and ous les in sub - tem i , ely .
as for the ase of a gle tem , we ent the ief ate for ach tem i as a ure , ted ing a sis ble hi .
we lso sso - ate ith ach tem a set of ion les yi , ich are the nes hat are ost ant to the tem .
i ver ach tem i .
nce tem i may be ced tly by ome her ems , we not orm the nce ely in ion ide tem i .
ead , we der the ex - ded tem ich des tem i , and all the les rom her ems ich nce it .
our oal is to get a ief ate t
ven our ief ate ion , it is ble to de - ibe the ion ver the ded tem as a mix - ure of ans .
as in the gle tem ase , we can uce nce ich ges our ity ibu - ion ver ete les as ell as ver ous ari - les .
ote hat ent ded ems may ver - lap , and ter ing ent nts nto ese ems we may ave a ent ion ver the red les .
we ize ese ies ing a age - ing thm led ion ( zen & ter 123 ) .
as in ard ion , we nly ate the ete les , not the ous nes .
as a ult of his ase , all the ete les are ted ing all the ent ion .
his is ant , as ide nce can be ant in ing the eli - ood of the ent ses .
it is lso ble to ify the ing thm to use the sed ion of the ief ate .
the ing is one tly in ery tem ing the ame thm ( and ing a ing rix for ery tem ) .
the ard ges are sed to ate the sis les of ach one of the ems .
the in - ion can be ted rds ith the ing ces .
the nly nce is hat ter his ion ,
ure 123 : ive ank tem and lts
we eed to ate the ete les of the ems , ust ike in the ard ass .
we ted our thm on a tem ich ins ve wa - ter nks , own in ure 123
the tem ins six con - ces and ve res , ich are all ree ers , but nly ree nts , ing it a ing sys - tem to ack .
in ion , the tem ins the ree pes of res bed in ion : fts , sts and ure - ent ors , ach ing ith ity : .
hus , at ery ime tep ery nce has 123 ble ure des ( ble , ult , dup , eak ) and ach ent has 123 ble ure des .
ing all the ble ail - res at ime t + and the ent res rom ime t , the tem has ble ure des at any int in ime , ing any ope of ing nce out ome ion of the tem .
in our nts we sed the tem nto ve ems , nce ons nto ess ems de - ded too uch ory .
ach ank was red to be a tem ( see ure 123 ) .
we ked ve ses per tem , ith a ead of two eps hen ing ing .
we ted our thm on a ted se - at t = , r rts to nce a ive ift .
at t = , we uce two ous ent
ors in the nts of f and fo .
at t = , r sts , and hen rns to a ady ate .
at t = r rts a ive ift .
at t = r sts and hen rns to mal .
at t = r sts .
the aph in ure 123 ows the lts of ing r ,
r and r .
lly , at t = the ect of the ift in r was ble .
the ing sis had a rob - ity of : , but ter ing the ity ent up to : .
as a ult our thm red his a ely sis , and ept it in the ief ate .
at t = the ity of a ive ift ent rom : to : af - ter ing .
at his int our thm tly ted the ive ift , and ned a ery igh ity for his ent til t = .
at his int , ore ing , our thm red two ses : a rst in r ( rob - ity ) or the nce of the ive ift and a ent ure ( ity ) .
ing sed the ity of a rst ( the ect sis ) to .
the ual ues of r ere ked ith igh acy .
the ent of f ade the ing of r a rel - ely ple lem .
ngs are uch ore ted for r .
not nly is ere no ect ent of f , ere is no ent at all in tem 123 ! ore , ing r is a eal nge .
due to ack of ace we mit the ual ers , but in his run our thm de - ted the ift as oon as it gan .
( in her uns the de - ion was mes yed by 123 eps . ) it is lso in - ing to see the ior of r ing the rst .
our thm ted the rst , but nce no nce is sed in tem 123 it uld not ack the rue lue of the rst tly .
we lan to ess his lem in ure ork by ing ous ion een the sys - ems as ell as ete ion .
for the nts res at t = , our thm ved in ost the ame way for the two nts , so we ort on m nly .
ore ing , our thm red two ses a rst in r ( ity : ) or a ent ult and a ent ive ift in r ( ity : ) .
ter ing the ity of the ect sis ent up to ost .
we eel hat ese lts ate the wer of our al - thm , and its ity to tly ose and ack ven a lex tem ith a all ber of nts .
ons and ure ork
in his per , we ted a new ach for ing and sis of rid ems .
we del ese ems as bns , hus ing the lem of sis to the rob - lem of ing .
it is not a ise hat ing rid sys - ems is lso a ult lem .
in his per we cus on a ial ass of rid ems : nes hat ven ome par - lar ent to the ete les ave ear dy - ics ( or can be zed ith a ory ion ) .
ore , we cus on ems hat are sed of sev - ral kly ing ems .
we eve hat any eal - ife cal ems ong to his ass of ems .
we ent a vel ing thm for his ass of ems .
rst , we pse lar ses ead of ust ing the ost ely nes .
his que ows us to use a ded dow ook - ead nto the ure .
we use ure ons to ist us in ing ich hy - ses are the ely tes and uld be ept ive ged , and ich are ess ely and can be sed ore ely .
our nal ion is ing a
way to oid the ial wup , sed by any dis - ete les hin a ime ice .
we do his by ing ely out the ent ems , ile ill opa - ing ons een hem .
our ial nts ith his ach are ery en - ing .
we ave ted it on a ery rge tem ( one ith ent ete tes per ime ice ) , ith a par - rly ult rio .
our thm und ost of the lts , ing hat it can be sed to ide ble ack - ing and sis ven for ery ard ems .
of rse , we lan to uct her nts in her ins .
we are tly ing on ing the ion al - thm to low us to ate ion een sub - ems not nly for the ete les but for inu - ous les as ell .
we eve hat his new ure ill tly ove our ing ies , lly on ong ces ith any nts .
we are lso ing for ays to end the thm be - ond the ily of nal ear ems ( or ems ich can be ted as uch ) .
in lar , we ope to be ble to dle ete ren of ous nts and hly non - ear nce els .
lly , we ope to ply our thm on eal - ife ap - ons and not ust on tic ata .
we are ing ble ons in the sis ain , uch as mon - ing the nce of an ine , as ell as ion in her ins , uch as ual ing .
nts .
his rch was ted by an onr ung tor ard ant ber 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 and by aro der the uri ram , ted ach to ent ems , ant ber 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 , and by the man ion .
