a rge ion of eal - rld ata is red in com - ial nal ase ems .
ost cal ing ods ork nly ith at ata ons .
hus , to ply ese ods , we are ced to ert our ata nto a at orm , eby ing uch of the nal ure ent in our ase .
his per lds on the ent ork on tic nal mod - els ( rms ) , and bes how to arn hem rom ses .
rms low the ies of an ect to end lly oth on her per - ies of hat ect and on ies of ted ob - cts .
ugh rms are tly ore ex - ive han ard els , uch as ian rks , we how how to end ell - own sta - cal ods for ing ian rks to arn ese els .
we ibe oth ter ion and ure ing the tic ion of the ncy ure in a del .
ver , we how how the ing ure can oit ard ase val ues for ent ing rom rge ets .
we ent tal lts on oth eal and tic re -
nal els are the ost mon ion of red ata .
ise ess ion , ing and les ata , cal rds , and tic ets are all red in nal ses .
eed , nal ses are a lti - ion lar try .
tly , ere has een row - ing est in ing ore ted use of ese uge nts of ata , in lar ing ese ses for cer - ain rns and ies .
by tly ing ese ies , we can ain a per ing of our do - ain and may ver ful ips .
we can lso use our del to ll in own but ant ion
the ute of ter nce , rew ity ,
lem 123 , ael
ter nce ent , ord ity , tes
ing 23a , ord ca 123 - 123
ple , we may be ted in ing her a son is a ial ney - rer sed on eir ank its , nal vel , ess ons and est rds of own tes ( sen , 123 ) .
in her ase , we may be ted in ing web ges as ing to a stu - ent , a lty ber , a ect , etc . , ing tes of the web age and of ted ges ( ven et al . , 123 ) .
ely , few ive ing hms are apa - ble of ing ata in its nal orm .
ost are ted to ing ith a at set of ces , ach ith its own epa - ate tes .
to use ese ods , one lly ens the nal ata , ing its her ure .
his pro - ess , ver , ses ion ich ght be ial in ing the ata .
der , for ple , the lem of ing the lue of an ute of a ain ity , e . g . , her a son is a ney - rer .
his ute ill be ted ith her tes of his ity , as ell as ith tes of ted ies , e . g . , of ial sac - ons ted by his son , of her ple ved in ese ons , of her ons ted by ese ple , etc .
in der to ten his lem , we uld eed to ide in nce on a xed set of tes hat the arn - ing thm can use in his ask .
hus , we ant a ing thm hat can eal ith ple ies and eir rop - ies , and can ach ons out an tys ter - ics sed on the ies of the ies to ich it is re - ted .
til now , ive gic ing ( ilp ) ( rac and ski , 123 ) has een the ary ing ame - ork ith his ity .
ilp hms arn cal orn les for ing hen ome rst - der ate lds .
ile ilp is an ent ion in any ngs , it may be ate in ers .
the ain ion is the min - tic ure of the les red .
in any ins , uch as the les ove , we ter ing ons hat are far rom ing tic .
our oal in his per is to arn ore ned lis - tic els , hat ent cal ons oth een the ies of an ity and een the ies of re - ted ies .
uch a del can hen be sed for ing out an ity ing the ire ich ure of dge ded by the nal ion .
the ing int for our ork is the red nta - ion of tic els , as ied in ian net - rks ( bns ) .
a bn ows us to ide a act rep -
ion of a lex ity ion ver ome xed set of tes or dom les .
the nta - ion its the ity of nce hat is ent in any ins .
we ild on two ent nts in the eld of ian rks .
the rst is the eep ing of the cal ing lem in uch els ( ker - man , 23; man et al . , 123 ) and the ole of ruc - ure in ing an ate ias for the ing ask .
the ond is the ent ent of ons hat end the ute - sed bn ion to ate a uch her nal ure ( ler and fer , 23; ngo and awy , 23; ole , 123 ) .
in his per , we ine ese two ces .
eed , one of our key ons is to how hat any of the ech - ues of ian ork ing can be ded to the ask of ing ese ore lex els .
his ibu - ion zes ( ler and fer , 123 ) s ary ork on his pic .
we art by ing the ics of oba - tic nal els .
we hen ine the ems of ter ion and ure ion for his ass of els .
we eal ith ome ial cal ues hat dis - ish the lem of ing nal tic mod - els rom hat of ing ian rks .
we ide a ion of the ood ion ate to his set - ing , and how how it cts ith the ard ons of bn ing .
the rch ver ent ncy ruc - res is tly ore lex han in the ase of arn - ing bn ure and we uce the ary ols and pts to do his ely .
we hen ibe men - tal lts on tic and eal - rld ets , and lly uss ble ons and ons .
123 ing ork 123 nal del we ibe our nal del in ric rms , ely re - ted to the age of ity - hip els .
his gen - ity ows our ork to be ped nto a ety of cic nal ems , ing the tic gic ams of ( ngo and awy , 23; ole , 123 ) , and the tic ame ems of ( ler and fer , 123 ) .
our ing lts ply to all of ese rks .
ach ion
and a set of ons
the ary of a nal del sts of a set of kes on ues in ome xed ain is ped .
his ary
ity ype is ted ith a set of tes nes a ema for our nal del .
der a ple tic del of the nce of a gle ene hat nes a ons ood ype .
ach per - son has two ies of the ome ing his ene , one ted rom her her , and one ted rom her fa - her .
ere is lso a bly ted est hat pts to ize the ons ood ype .
our ema ins two ses son and ood - est , and ree ons her , her , and est - of .
tes of son are ame , der , p - ome ( the ome ted rom the her ) , m - ome ( ted rom the her ) .
the tes
for ach ity ype
for ach ity
of a ema nes a set of ies , the nce has an ted at - .
for ach ion
; its lue in
we are ted in ing a ity del ver ces of a nal ema .
ver , ome tes , uch as a ame or ial ity ber , are lly ter - ned .
we bel uch tes as xed .
we ume hat hey are own in any ion of the ema .
the her tes are led tic .
a ton ure a nal ema is a ial ion of an nce of the ema .
it ies the set of cts ass , the ues of the xed tes of ese cts , and the ons hat old een the cts .
ver , it ves the ues of tic tes ied .
a ple - nds the ton by lso ing the ues of the tic tes .
of the ton ure
one nal ion ich ill urn out to be ful is the is any ion , we ion of a lot ain .
if - th nts to ain a , ich we can hen iew as a lot , we let .
for any lds .
( in nal bra ion .
we can ate ots to orm ger lot ins , ned by ion of ary ons .
s in the ain ust be ely ped . ) ( ach of the
. ) cts in his set are led
ote all the nts
of ood - est are ial - ber , ate , ted , and
123 tic nal els we now eed to the ion of tic nal els ( rms ) .
the sic oal ere is to del our cer - nty out the ues of the non - xed , or tic , at - tes of the cts in our ain of rse .
in her rds , ven a ton ure , we ant to ene a oba - ity ion ver all ons of the ton .
our tic del sts of two nts : the , and the ers as - ive ncy ure , .
the ncy ure is ned by ted ith it , ing ith ach ute ese ond to mal ts; hey ill be ted in ent ays for ent cts in .
ely , the nts are tes hat are ect ces on
a set of nts pa
we ish een two pes of mal nts
the ute
ill end lly on
can end on her tic ute
ncy for ual cts : for any ect can lso end on tes of ted cts nce for an ual ect
his mal nce ces a ing de - is a lot ain .
to and the ics of his mal , all hat .
ept in ses ere the lot ain is eed to be gle - ued , we ust ify the tic nce of ase ory ves us ely the ght ool to ess
nts the set of cts hat are w - ves of
the ion of ion rom
ure 123 : the prm ure for a ple ics ain .
xed tes are own in lar ont and tic tes are own in lic .
ted nes ate ons een ies and lid ows ate tic de -
his ue; i . e . , ill end lly on ome ag - ate rty of his set .
ere are any ral and ful ons of ion : the ode of the set ( ost fre - tly ing lue ) ; ean lue of the set ( if ues are cal ) ; ian , mum , or mum ( if ues are red ) ; ity of the et; etc .
ore lly , our age ows a ion of an gre - kes a set of ues of ome und ype , and rns a ary of it .
the ype of the ate can be the ame as hat of its nts .
ver , we low her pes as ell , e . g . , an ate hat rts the ize of the set .
; the ics is hat for any
ing to our ics ple , der the ute ult .
nce the ult of a ood est nds on her it was ted , it has ood - est the ult lso nds on the ge - as a ent .
tic ial of the son ted .
gle - ued , we add ood - est p - ome as nts .
ure 123 ows the ure of a ple prm for his ain .
to ave as a ent
ill end on the lue of in the ous way .
we ate
ore ely , let
, we can ene ven a set of nts pa a cal ity del for a nal ity ion ( cpd ) hat ies be the set of par -
a ple ute in the ame ion or an ate of a set in ome und ves has a set of ues
, the cpd ies ype .
for ach ple of ues .
the ers in
all of ese pds ise
all hat ach of ese nts
ven a ton ure for our ema , we ant to use ese cal ity els to ene a ity tri - ion ver ons of the ton .
rst , ote hat the ton nes the set of cts in our del .
we sso - ate a dom ble ith ach tic ute .
the ton lso nes the ons
of ach ect
een cts , and eby the set of w - ves ted ith ery ect for ach hip ain w
lso ote hat by ing hat the ons een cts are al - ays ied by , we are ing nty ver the nal ure of the del .
to ene a ent tic del ver his ele - ton , we ust ure hat our tic ies are lic , so hat a dom ble oes not end , tly or tly , on its own lue .
der the nts of an , we ene an is a ent of
we say hat a , we ene an dge the ted aph ned by lic .
in his ase , we can ene a ent tic del ver ete ons
is lic ive to a ton ver the les
is a ent of
" ci zs (
ion 123 : if a ion ver ons
is lic ive to
, hen ( 123 ) nes
we iey tch a oof of his ion , by ing how to uct a bn ver the tic tes of a .
his ion is ent of the dge - sed del ion ach ( man et al . , 123 ) .
ere , ver , the ion is ely a ght - nt; our ing thm ver cts his ork .
in his ork ere is a ode for ach ari - and for ate ies red by nts .
the nts of ese ate dom les are all of the at - tes hat ate in the ion , ing to the .
the pds of dom les hat ons ied by ond to tic tes are ply the pds de - , and the pds of dom les hat rre - ond to ate des ure the tic ion of the lar ate tor .
it is asy to ify hat if the tic ies are lic , hen so is the ced ian ork .
his ion lso sts one way of ing ies out a nal del .
we can ile the ing ian ork and use ard ols for ing ies out it .
ugh for ach ton , we can ile a prm nto a ian ork , a prm ses uch ore ion han the ing bn .
a bn nes a ity ion ver a xed set of tes .
a prm ies a ion ver any on; in ent ons , the set ( and num - ber ) of ies in the ain ill ary , as ill the ons een the ies .
in a way , rms are to bns as a set of les in rst - der gic is to a set of les in nal gic : a ule uch as
ces a lly ite set of und
123 ter ion we now ove to the ask of ing rms .
we gin ith ing the ers for a prm ere the ncy
ure is own .
in her rds , we are ven the ure hat nes the set of nts for ach ute , and our ask is to arn the ers hat ene the pds for his ure .
our ing is sed on a lar ing set , ich we ill ake to be a ete nce his ask is ely ard , it is of est in and of elf .
in ion , it is a ial ent in the ure ing thm bed in the ext ion .
the key ent in ter ion is the ood ion , the ity of the ata ven the del .
his ion res the nse of the ity ion to ges in the ers .
as ual , the ood of a ter set is ned to be the ity of the ata ven as ual , we
lly ork ith the log of his ion :
" ci zs (
the key ght is hat his ion is ery lar to the log - ood of ata ven a ian ork ( eck - in act , it is the ood ion of the ian ork ced by the ure ven the ele - ton .
the ain nce rom ard ian ork ter ing is hat ers for ent des in the ork are ced to be cal .
hus , we can use the ell - ood ory of ing rom ian rks .
der the ask of ing mum ood ram - ter ion .
ere , our oal is to nd the ter set - .
his ion is ied by the de - ion of log - ood ion nto a ion of rms ing to the ous tes of the ent ses .
ach of the rms in the are ets in ( 123 ) can be zed tly of the est .
nce , mal eli - ood ion ces to ent ion rob - ems , one for ach cpd .
hat zes the ods (
for ial pds , mum ood ion can be one via ent ics ich in his ase are ust hat the at - the nts c
and its nts can tly ake .
ion 123 : ing ial pds , the mum
ood ter ing
& of the ent ues
as a nce of his ion , ter ing in rms is ced to ing ent ics .
we eed to unt one tor of ent ics for ach cpd .
uch ing can be one in a ard ner ing tan - ard ses ies .
ote hat his ion ows hat ing ers in rms is ery lar to ing ers in ian net - rks .
in act , we ght iew his as ing ers for the bn hat the prm ces ven the ton .
ver , as
sed ove , the ned ers can hen be sed for ing out her ons , ich uce a ely
in any ses , mum ood ter ion is not ust , as it rts the ing ata .
the ian ap - ach ses a ior ion ver the ers to oth the ies in the ing ata , and is ore sig - tly ore ust .
as we ill see in ion 123 , the ian ork lso ves us a ood ric for uat - ing the ity of ent ate res .
due to ace ons , we nly iey ibe his ive ach .
hly ing , the ian ach ces a ior ver the own ers , and rms ian ing , ing the ata as nce , to ute a ste - ior ion ver ese ers .
to ply his dea in our ing , all hat the prm ers of a set of ual ity ion nal ion of the orm .
ing the ork on ian hes for arn - ing ian rks ( man , 123 ) , we ake two as - ons .
rst , we ume ter nce : the ors ver the ers are ent .
ond , we ume hat the ior ver is a let ion .
iey , a let ior for is ied by a set
a ial ion of a ble ! is let if& ( ' k ( )
for a ter ior ing ese two ons , the ior lso has his orm .
hat is , it is a uct of nde - ent let ons ver the ers ich can be ted ily .
ion 123 : if is a ete ent , and the ior ses ter nce and let ith per -
the ers of ( for ore ils see ( oot , 123 ) . )
a ion on
for the ent
is a uct of let ons ith ers
& , hen the ior
nce we ave ted the ior , how do we ate the ity of new ata ? in the ase of bn ing , we ume hat ces are iid , ich ies hat hey are in - ent ven the lue of the ers .
hus , to alu - ate a new nce , we nly eed the ior ver the ram - ers .
the ity of the new nce is hen the oba - ity ven ery ble ter lue , ted by the ior ity ver ese ues .
in the ase of bns , his erm can be ten ply as the nce bil - ity ing to the ted lue of the ers ( i . e . , the ean of the ior let for ach ter ) .
his sug - sts hat we ght use the ted ers for uat - ing new ata .
eed , the ula for the ted ers is ous to the one for bns : ion 123 : ing ial pds , ior in - nce , and let ors , ith ers
" , we ave hat :
ely , the ted ers are not the per ian ion for ing ity of new ata .
ere are two ble ons .
ady in the ase .
in his ase , the ion
of ome per - lso ges our ity out the .
we ore not ply use our old pos -
the rst lem is hat , in our ing , the ion of iid ata is ten ted .
lly , a new nce ght not be lly ent of old nes ven the ram - ers .
der the ics ain , and ume hat our new ata ves ion out the her of the new ect ior out the ers to son out the new nce .
his lem oes not cur if the new ata is not ted to the ing ata , hat is , hen the new ata is lly a int ase ith the ame eme .
ore gly , the lem lso ars hen tes of new cts are not nts of any ute in the ing set .
in the ge - ics ple , his ans hat we can ert new ple nto our ase , as ong as hey are not ors of ple al - ady in the ase .
the ond lem ves the mal ion for ing ted ers ues .
his ent nds on the act hat the ity of a new nce is ear in the lue of ach ter .
hat is , ach ter is sed at ost nce .
his ion is ted hen we der the ity of a lex ase ing ple in - ces rom the ame ass .
in his ase , our ral of the ity of the new ata ven the ers can no ger be ced to ing the ity ive to the ex - ted ter lue .
the ect ion is led the nal ood of the ( new ) ta; we use it in ion 123 for ing res .
for now , we ote hat if the ior is ply ked ( i . e . , we ave een any ing ces ) , we can ate his erm by ing the ted ame - ers of ion 123 , as we uld for a gle nce .
in ice , we ill ten use ese ted ers as our
123 ure ion we now ove to the ore ing lem of ing a ncy ure lly , as sed to ing it ven by the ser .
ere are ree ant ues hat eed to be sed .
we ust ine ich ncy ruc - res are al; we eed to ate the ess of fer - ent ate es; and we eed to ene an ive rch ure hat nds a ood ure .
123 gal res hen we der ent ncy res , it is im - ant to be ure hat the ncy ure lts in ent ity els .
to tee his rty , we see rom ion 123 hat the ton .
of rse , we can ily ify for be lic ive to a ven ate ure hat it is lic ive to the of our ing ase .
ver , we lso ant to tee hat it ill be lic ive to her ses hat we may ter in our ain .
how do we tee ity for an ary ase ? a ple ach is to
if her ( a )
is a ent of
ure hat ies ong tes ect ome der ( i . e . , are ied ) .
ore ely , we say hat is a ent of , or ( b ) and the w - ves .
we hen ire hat are of ass nds nly on tes hat ede it in the der .
ile his ple ach rly res ity , it is too ted to ver any ant ses .
con - der ain our tic del .
of a son nds on the ype of her ts; hus , we ave son p - ome ing tly on p - ome , ich rly tes the ire - nts of our ple ach .
in his del , the par - ent ity at the ute vel is ved at the vel of ual cts , as a son not be his / her own an - tor .
hat is , the ion of ity ies on ome ior dge hat we ave out the ain .
to low our ing thm to eal ith ncy els uch as his we ust low the ser to ive our thm ior dge .
we low the ser to ert hat ain ots
eed hat ere is a ial ing say hat w
- ive for ome is eed lic if ach of its nts
i are eed ic; i . e . , we are
uch hat if
is eed lic .
is a ent of
ich is een if w
we use his ior dge ine the ity of cer - ain ncy els .
we art by ing a aph hat bes the ect ies een the tes .
in his aph , we ave a low dge , we ave an is eed lic and red ise .
( ote hat ere ght be ral ges , of ent ors , een two tes ) .
the ion is hat ncy ong een ges tes cts hat are or - red by an lic der .
hus ese ges by ves or ned ith tra - ect ies ( low ges ) can - not use a lic ncy .
we ust ake are ith her ies , for ich we do not ave ior dge , as ese ght orm a cle .
his ion sts the low - ing ion : a ( red ) ncy aph is ied if ery cle in the aph ins at ast one een dge and no red ges .
is ied , hen for any ton
ion 123 : if the red ncy aph of
ion ver nts to
for ich the ots nes a ent ity
are tly lic ,
his ion of ion zes the two ial ses we red ove .
hen we do not ave any ran - eed lic ons , all the ges in the ncy aph are red her low or red .
hus , the aph is ati - ed if and nly if it is lic .
in the ics ple , all the ons uld be in .
hus , it ces to eck hat ies hin cts ( low ges ) are lic .
ion 123 : ion of a red aph can be de - ned in ime ear in the ber of ges in the aph .
we mit the ils of the thm for ack of ace , but it ies on ard aph hms .
lly , we ote hat it
is asy to and his ion of ion for ons ere our ior dge ves ral ets of ran - eed lic ons , ach set ith its own der ( e . g . , ob - cts on a rid ith a rth - uth ing and an ast - est ing ) .
we ply lor the aph ith ral ors , and eck hat ach cle ins ges ith tly one lor her han low , ept for red .
123 ing ent res now hat we now ich res are gal , we eed to de - ide how to ate ent res in der to ick one hat ts the ata ell .
we apt ian del ion ods to our ork .
lly , we ant to ute the ior ity of a ure ven an tia - .
ing yes ule we ave hat .
his ore is sed of two ain rts : the ior ity of the ure , and the ity of the ata ing hat ure .
the rst ent is
, ich nes a ior ver res .
we ume hat the ice of ure is in - ent of the ton , and hus .
in the ext of ian rks , we ten use a ple orm ior ver ble ncy res .
ely , his ion oes not ork in our ing .
the lem is hat ere may be ely any ble res .
in our ge - ics ple , a ons ype can end on the eno - ype of his nts , or of his nts , or of his eat - nts , etc .
a ple and ral ion zes
the ond ent is the nal ood :
ong ect lot ins , by ing
the sum of the ths of the ins w ing in
if we use a ter ent let ior ( as ove , his ral ses nto a uct of als ach of ich has a ple sed orm ion .
( his is a sim - ple ion of the eas sed in the ian ore for ion 123 : if
is a ete ent , and
, is ual to
ses ter nce and is let ith hy - , the nal
the nal ood is a uct of ple rms , ach of ich nds to a ion .
ver , the erm for nds nly on the ers " ent ics c the nal ood erm is the ant erm in the ity of a ure .
it ces the ity of the
" and the
" , hen ,
is the mma ion .
ure ith its t to the ata .
his nce can be ade tly via the tic ion of the nal eli - ood to cit ion , uch as the mdl ore ( see , e . g . , ( man , 123 ) ) .
lly , we ote hat the ian ore res hat we ign a ior ver ter ues for ach ble ruc - ure .
nce ere are any ( aps ely any ) ter - ive res , his is a ble ask .
in the ase of ian rks , ere is a ass of ors hat can be de - bed by a gle ork ( man et al . , 123 ) .
ese ors ave the nal rty of ing ure iva - ent , hat is , hey tee hat the nal ood is the ame for res hat are , in ome ong nse , ent .
ese ons ave not yet een ned for our her ruc - res , so we fer the sue to ure ork .
ead , we ply ume hat ome ple let ior ( e . g . , a orm one ) has een ned for ach ute and ent set .
123 ure rch now hat we ave a est for ing her a ure is gal , and a ing ion hat ows us to ate dif - ent res , we eed nly ide a ure for nd - ing gal igh - ing res .
for ian rks , we now hat his ask is np - ard ( ing , 123 ) .
as prm ing is at ast as ard as bn ing ( a bn is ply a prm ith one ass and no ons ) , we not ope to nd an ent ure hat ays nds the est ing ure .
hus , we ust ort to tic rch .
the sim - est uch thm is edy ill - ing rch , ing our ore as a ric .
we ain our ent ate ure and ely ove it .
at ach ion , we der a set of ple cal ons to hat ure , ore all of hem , and ick the one ith est ore .
we eal ith cal ima ing dom rts .
as in ian rks , the ity rty of the ore has ant act on the nal ef - ncy of the rch thm .
rst , we ose the ore nto a sum of cal res ing to ual tes and eir nts .
now , if our rch thm con - ers a ion to our ent ure ere the ent set of a gle ute is ent , nly the ent ill nge .
hus , we eed of the ore ted ith nly ate his lar ent , ing the ers ed; his lts in jor nal ngs .
ere are two ems ith his ple ach .
rst , as sed in the ous ion , we ave ely any ble res .
ond , ven the mic eps of the rch are ve; the ess of ing ent ics res ive ase ons .
ven if we ict the set of ate res at ach tep of the rch , we not ord to do all the ase ons nec - ary to ate all of hem .
we ose a tic rch thm hat ses oth ese ues .
at a igh vel , the thm eds , we ave a set of ial nts .
we hen do a ard ure rch ted to the ace of res in ich .
the age of the nts of ach his ach is hat we can ute the iew ond -
in ses .
at ach ase
are in pot
for ach ute
; ost of the ive ons the ins and the ion red in the ion of the nts are ted in ese ews .
the suf - ent ics for any set of ial nts can ily be ved rom his iew .
the ove ion , her ith the ity of the ore , ows the eps of the rch ( say , edy ill - ing ) to one ery tly .
the ess of his ach nds on the ice of the ial nts .
rly , a ong ial ice can ult to oor res .
ing ( man et al . , 123 ) , ich ex - nes a lar ach in the ext of ing ian rks , we ose an ive ach hat rts ith ome ure ( bly one ere ach ute oes not ave any nts ) , and ect the ets pot his ure .
we hen ply the rch ure and get a new , her ing , ure .
we ose new ial par - nts sed on his new ure and ate , ing hen no her ent is ade .
it ins nly to uss the ice of pot
ent ses .
aps the est ach is to gin by .
in ces -
ive ses , pot uld ist of all of pa as ell as all tes hat are ted to via lot ins .
of rse , ese new tes uld ire
on; we tep the sue by ing ble ag - tes for ach ute .
to be the set of tes in
his eme nds the set of ial nts at ach ion .
ver , it lly lts in rge set of ten - ial nts .
hus , we lly use a ore ned thm if hey eem to add hat nly dds nts to pot .
ere are ral ble ays lue ond pa of ing the nal lue ded by new nts .
ome of ese are sed in ( man et al . , 123 ) in the ext of ing ian rks .
eir lts est hat we uld ate a new ial ent by sur - if we add the ing the nge of ore for the ily of to its ent nts .
we hen ose the est ing of ese , as ell as the ent nts , to be the new set of ial nts .
his ach ows us to gni - tly uce the ize of the ial ent set , and eby of the ing iew , ile ing ely to use ant ion in the ity of the ned del .
123 ion and tal lts we ted our ing thm on top of the ost - res ect - nal ase ent tem .
all re - red nts ere ned ply ugh ase lec - ion ies , and hed to oid ing the ame ery ice .
ing the rch ess , we ted ary ma - zed ews ing to ins een ent re - ons , and ese ews ere hen sed for ing the
we ted our sed ing thm on two do - ins , one eal and one tic .
the two ins ave ery ent ics .
the rst is a vie ase hat ins ree ons : vie , tor and ars , ich tes ors to ies in ich hey yed
ned rom ttp : / / www - db . ord . edu / pub / ies / doc . tml
ase ins out 123 ies and 123 ors .
ile his ase has a ple ure , it nts the ind of ems one ten ers hen ing ith eal ata : ing ues , rge ins for tes , and con - ent use of ues .
the act hat our thm was ble to eal ith his ind of eal - rld lem is ite mis - ing .
our thm ned the del own in ure 123 ( a ) .
his del is ble , and ose to one hat we uld con - der to be ect .
it ned hat the nre of a vie ded on its ade and its lm ess ( lor , ack & ite , lor etc . ) and hat the ade ded on its lm ess .
it lso ned an ing ncy com - ing all ree ons : the ole - ype yed by an tor in a vie nds on the der of the tor and the nre of
the ond ase , an ial tic ase lar to the ple in his per , ted ite ent hal - ges .
for one ing , the ive ure of his ain ows ily lex ins to be ned .
in ion , the tic del in his ain is rly tle .
ach son has ree ant tes p - ome , m - ome , and ype all ith the ame ain and all ted how to the ame tes of the ons her and her .
the old ard is the del sed to ate the ta; the ure of hat del was own ear - ier in ure 123
we ned our thm on ets of var - ous zes ing up to 123
a ata set of ize of a ily ree ing ple , ith an age of 123 ood sts per son .
we ted our thm on a est set of ize 123 , 123
ure 123 ( b ) ows the log - ood of the est set for the ned els .
in ost ses , our thm ned a del ith the ect ure , and red ell .
ver , in a all ity of ses , the thm got uck in cal ima , ing a del ith ect ure hat red ite rly .
his can be een in the ter ots of ure 123 ( b ) ich how hat the ian log - ood of the ned els is ite ble , but ere are a few ers .
ard ues uch as dom rts can be sed to eal ith cal ima .
123 ion and ons in his per , we ned a new cal ing ask : arn - ing tic nal els rom ata .
we ave own hat any of the eas rom ian ork ing rry ver to his new ask .
ver , we ave lso own hat it lso ses any new ges .
ing ese eas to rge ses is an ant sue .
we eve hat his can be ved by a ser ion ith the ogy of ase ems , ing ces and ery ion .
ore , ere has een a lot of ent ork on ing ion rom ive ata ets , ing ork on ing tly ing ons of ues for tes .
we eve hat ese eas ill elp tly in the ion of ent ics .
ere are lso ral ant ble ons to his ork .
aps the ost ous one is the ent of iss - ing ata and den les .
we can end ard ech - ues ( uch as ion ion for ing ata )
ure 123 : ( a ) the prm ned for the vie ain , a eal - rld ase ing out 123 ies and 123 ors .
( b ) ing rve ing the ion nce of rms ned in the tic ain .
the - xis ows the ses ze; the - xis ows log - ood of a est set of ize 123 , 123
for ach ple ize , we how 123 ent ing nts .
the rve ows ian log - ood of the els as a ion of the ple ize .
to his ask ( see ( ler and fer , 123 ) for ome lim - ary ork on ted els . ) ver , the ity of nce on rge ses ith any ing ues ake the ost of a ive ion of uch hms ive .
rly , his ain lls oth for new nce hms and for new ing hms hat oid ted lls to nce ver ese ery rge ems .
ven ore est - ing is the sue of ted ery of den les .
ere are ome ary ers to his ion in the ext of ian rks ( man , 123 ) , in the con - ext of ilp ( rac and ski , 123 ) , and ery tly in the ext of ple ary ons ( ann et al . , 123 ) .
ing ese eas and ing hem to his ore com - lex ork is a ant and ing nge .
her ion nds the ass of els we der .
ere , we med hat the nal ure is ied be - ore the tic ute ues are ned .
a her ass of rms ( e . g . , hat of ( ler and fer , 123 ) ) uld low ies ver the ure of the el; for ex - ple : nty ver the set of cts in the del , e . g . , the ber of ren a ple has , or ver the ons be - een cts , e . g . , ose is the ood hat was und on a ime ene .
ely , we uld ant ese ues to elp us lly ver ing ies and ela - ips hat old in the rld .
nir man was ted by a ant rom the ael her ust .
ise oor , hne ler , and avi fef - fer ere ted by onr act 123 - 123 - c - 123 un - der pas pkb ram , by onr ant 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 , by the aro der the uri ram ted ap - ach to ent ems , and by the ity of the oan ion and of the ell ion .
