ame ory des a cal sis for ing tio - nal ior in lti - ent ios .
ver , the mpu - nal ity of ing ria in rge mes has ted ame rys cal ons .
in his per , we ore the ion of red tic els to lti - ent ios .
we ine lti - ent nce di - ams ( ids ) , ich ent mes in a way hat ows us to ake age of nce ips ong les .
his ion ows us to ine a ion of gic nce : d is lly ant to d if , to ize the ion ule at d , the ion ker eds to now the ion ule at d .
we ide a und and com - ete cal ion for ing gic nce .
we hen how how gic nce , ich is ade cit by the aid ure , can be ted in hms for ing ria to ain ial ngs in ain ses of mes .
ame ory ( erg & ole 123 ) des a ath - cal ork for ing hat ior is ra - nal for nts ing ith ach her in a lly ble ent .
ver , the nal com - ity of ing ria in mes has red the ap - ion of ame ory to eal - rld ems .
ost lgo - hms for ing ria ate on the gic orm of a ame , ose ize is lly ial in the ize of the ame ree ( vey & nan 123 ) .
ven hms hat ate tly on the ame ree ( kii 23; ler , ddo , von gel 123 ) are not a ion , as for mes ing any ons , the ame ree can be ely rge .
as an eme ase , if the ame ree is ric ( i . e . , all ths to ves ave the ame nce of ons ) , the ber of eaf des is ial in the ber of ons .
his lem of ate ace ion lso urs in eci - ion ees , the gle - ent ons of ame ees .
nce ams ( ids ) ( ard & son 123 ) low gle - ent ion ems to be ted and ved ith - out his ial low - up .
ike ian rks ( arl
now at gle inc .
ght 123 , can ion for ial lli - nce ( www . aai . org ) .
all hts ved .
123 ) , nce ams ent the nal nde - ies ong les .
ese sms low us to ake age of the ure in eal - rld ems to lve hem ore tly .
in his per , we ent an ex - ion of nce ams to the lti - ent ing , ith the oal of ing act ons and ore ef - ent ion hms for ame - tic ems .
lti - ent nce ams ( ids ) ent eci - ion ems ing ple nts in a red way .
we how hat ids low us to oit not nly the pen - ies een the tic tes in the ain ( as in ian rks ) , but lso the ies be - een gic les .
we ine a ion of gic nce : a ion ble d lly ies on an - her ion ble dt hen , to ize the ion ule in d , the ion - ing ent eds to now the de - ion ule in dt .
we ide a aph - sed ion , ich we all s - ity , for gic nce , and how hat it is und and ete in the ame nse hat d - ion is und and ete for tic nce .
we lso ide a ial ime thm for ing s -
the ion of gic nce ows us to ine a ata ure we all the nce aph - - a ted aph hat tes hen one ion ble in the aid ies on her .
we hen how hat his ata ure can be ted to ide ore ent hms for ing ria : it ows a rge ame to be ken up nto ral ler mes , ose ria can be ned to ain a bal ium .
we ill uce ids ing a ple two - ent sce -
ple i ice is ing ing a tio ind her use , and the tio uld be ore ble to her if she uld get a ear iew of the ean .
ely , ere is a ree in her bor obs ard hat cks her iew .
ing hat ous , ice ers ing bob s ree , ich ght use it to ome ick .
bob not ell her ice has ned his ree , but he can ell if the ree is ing ick , and he has the ion of ing in a ree tor ( at ome ost ) .
the ion of a ree tor ces
the nce hat the ree ill die ing the ing ter .
ile , ice ust ake a ion out ing her tio ore the her ets too old .
hen she kes his ion , she ows her a ree tor has ome , but she not rve the lth of the ree tly .
a aid for his rio is own in ure 123
ure l : aid for the ree ler ple .
ces eci - ion and ity les are in ark ray and obs in ght
to ine a aid ore lly , we gin ith a set . a of nts .
the rld in ich the nts act is ted by the set c of nce les , and a set 23a of ion ari - les for ach ent a e a .
nce les ond to ves by ure , and are ted in the ram as als .
the ion les for ent a are les ose ues a ets to ose , and are ted as les in the ram .
we use d to ote 3at 23a , and 123 ) to de - ote c to 123
ach ble v e 123 has a ite set dom ( v ) of ble ues , led its ain .
the nts ity unc - ons are ied ing ity les : for ach ent a 123 . a , we ave a set / . / a of ity les , ted as nds in the ram , hat ake on eal ers as
a aid nes a ted lic aph ith its ari - les as the des , ere ach ble x is ted ith a set of nts pa ( x ) c 123
ote hat ity les not be nts of her les .
for ach nce ari - ble x 123 c , the aid ies a nal ity ion ( cpd ) : a ion pr ( x i pa ) for ach in - ion pa of pa ( x ) .
for a ion ble d 123 23a , pa ( d ) is the set of les ose ues ent a ows hen he ses a lue for d .
hus , the ice ent a kes for d can be ent nly on ese les .
the lue of a ity ble u is a tic ion of the ues of pa ( u ) ; we use u ( pa ) to ote the til - ity lue for ode u hen pa ( u ) = pa .
for ach ity ble u e h , f ies , for ach ion pa of pa ( u ) , the ing ity lue f ( u ) ( pa ) , ich ate ing u ( pa ) .
the tal ity hat an ent a de - ves rom an ion of 123 is the sum of the ies ied by the ity les in ha for his ion .
hus , by ing an nts ity ion nto ral
les , we are ply ing an ive ion of the nts ity ion ( ard & son 23; ney & ffa 123 ) .
the ior of the nts is ned by a set of ion
ion 123 a ion ule for a ion ble d is a ion hat aps ach ion pa of pa ( d ) to a rob - ity ion ver dom ( d ) .
an ent of ion les to ery ion d e 23a for a lar ent a e . a is led a egy .
an ent a of ion les to ery ion d 123 123 is led a egy ile .
a ial egy ile ac is an ent of ion les to a set e of 123
we ill lso use ( re to ote the ion of a to e , and cr - e to ote the ion of a to les not in e .
ote hat a ion ule has tly the ame orm as a cpd .
hus , if we ave a aid . at , hen a ial egy ile a hat gns ion les to a set e of ion les ces a new aid . 123 ( tr ) ere the nts of e ave ome nce les .
hat is , ach d e g nds to a nce ble in . 123 ( or ) ith tr ( d ) as its cpd .
hen a gns a ion ule to ery ion ari - ble in . 123 , the ced aid is ply a bn : it has no ore ion les .
his bn nes a int ity ion p ~ ver all the les in . 123
ith his ity ion , we can now ite an hat ent a cts to ive in a
ion for the ity
. 123 if the nts lay a ven egy ile tr :
eua ( a ) = ~ ~ u ( pa ) p ~ - m ( pa )
123 x pa ( u )
ere x pa ( u ) is the int ain of pa ( u ) .
in the ame - tic ork , we lly der a egy ile to ent nal ior if it is a ash ium ( ash 123 ) .
ely , a egy ile is ash ium if no ent has an ive to ate rom the egy ied for him by the ile , as ong as the her nts do not ate rom eir ied ies .
ion 123 a egy ile cr is a ash ium for a aid . 123 if for all nts a e , 123 and all ies a " lla ( o ) eua ( ( 123 o " ) ) .
ids and mes
a aid des a act ion of a rio hat can lso be ted as a ame in gic or ex - ive orm .
in his ion , we uss how to ert a aid nto an ive - orm ame .
we lso how how , nce we ave und an ium egy ile for a aid , we can ert it nto a ior egy ile for the ive orm ame .
the ord " ode " in his ion ers ely to a ode in the ree , as hed rom the des in the aid .
we use a ard ion of a ion of ( arl 123 ) for ing an nce ram nto ion ree .
the sic dea is to uct a ree ith its for ion and nce des in the aid .
we eed to lit on a nce ble ore its lue is ved by
ome ion de; we eed nly lit on nce ari - les hat are ved at ome int in the ess .
ore ely , the set of les ded in our ame ree is g = 123 : ) u ud ~ v pa ( d ) .
we gin by ing a tal ing - ~ ver g hat is ent ith the cal der of the aid : if ere is a ted ath rom x to y , hen x - g y .
our ree 123 " is a ric ree , ith ach ath ing its ver all the les in g in the der ned by - - ~ .
ach ode is led ith a ial ion nst ( n ) of g , in the ous way .
for ach ent a , the des ing to les d e d , are ion des for a; the her des are all nce des .
to ine the ion ets , der two ion des m and m ~ hat ond to a ble d .
we ace m and m nto the ame ion set if and nly if nst ( m ) and nst ( m ) ign the ame ues to pa ( d ) .
to ine the ies for the nce des , we ust do tic nce .
it rns out hat we can ose an ary lly xed egy ile a for our aid . hi ( one ere no ion has ity ero ) , and do nce in the bn 123 ( a ) ced by his rat - egy ile .
der a nce ode n ing to a nce ble c .
for ach lue e e dom ( c ) , let nc be the ild of n ing to the ice c = c .
hen we ine the ity of ing rom n to nc as p ~ a ( nst ( nc ) ) nst ( n ) ) .
ote hat if we lit on a eci - ion ble d ore g , hen the ion ule ad oes not ect his ion use nst ( n ) des ues for d and all its nts .
if we lit on d ter c , hen d can - not be an tor of c in the aid , and nst ( n ) not ify nce on d or any of its nts .
ore , ad not ect the ion .
nce , the ies of the nce des are ell - ned .
we ine the ffs at the ves by ing a tri - ion ver the nts of the ity des , ven an tan - ion of g .
for a eaf n , the off for ent a is :
ued / , , pae x pa ( u )
the ing een ids and ees lso ces an ous ing een egy les in the ent ons .
a aid egy ile ies a oba - ity ion ver dom ( d ) for ach air ( d , pa ) , ere pa is an ion of pa ( d ) .
the ion ets in the ame ree ond one - to - one ith ese irs , and a ior egy in the ame ree is a ing rom for - ion ets to ity ons .
rly the two are
sed on his ion , we can now ate the low -
ing nce mma : mma 123 let 123 be a aid and 123 " be its ing ame ree .
hen for any egy ile a , the off tor for a in 123 is the ame as the off tor for a in t .
the ber of des in 123 " is ial in the ber of ion les , and in the ber of nce les hat are ved ing the rse of the ame .
ile his wup is ble in a ree ion , it can be ite
ant in ain mes .
hus , a aid can be nen - lly ler han the ive ame it nds to .
ple 123 ose a oad is ing ilt rom rth to uth ugh ped and , and n nts ave pur - sed ots of and ong the oad .
as the oad hes ach nts lot , the ent eds to ose hat to ild on his and .
his ity nds on hat he lds , on ome ate ion out the ity of his and for var - ous ses , and on hat is ilt rth , uth , and oss the oad rom his and .
the ent can rve hat has ady een ilt ely to the rth of his and ( on oth des of the oad ) , but he not rve her th; nor can he rve hat ill be ilt oss rom his and or uth of it .
the aid ion
is ery act .
ere are n nce des , ing to the ate ion out ach nts and , and n ion les .
ach de - ion ble has at ost ree nts : the nts ate orm , ion , and the two ons ing the two ots to the rth of the nts and .
hus , the ize of the aid is ear in n .
ely , any ame ree for his ion ust lit on ach of the n nce des and ach of the n ons , ing to a ion hat is ial in
a aid ion
is not ays ore act .
if the ame ree is lly ric , a ive aid pre - ion can be lly ger han the ree .
we urn to his lem in ion .
to ake age of the nce ure in a aid , we uld ike to ind a bal ium ugh a ies of ely ple cal ons .
the lty is hat in der to ine the mal ion ule for a sin - gle ion ble , we lly eed to now the ion les for ome her les .
in ple 123 , hen ice is ing her to son the ree , she eds to are the ted ies of her two ves .
ver , the ity of the ree ing nds on the ity of bob ing a ree tor if he ves hat the ree is ick .
hus , we eed to now the ion ule for tor to ine the mal ion ule for ree .
in uch ons , we ill say hat ree ( lly ) ies on tor , or hat tor is rel - ant to ree .
on the her and , tor oes not ely on ree .
bob ets to rve her the ree is ick , and ead is lly pen - ent of ree ven ick , so the ion ule for ree is not ant to obs ion .
we ill now ize his ive ion of ate -
gic nce .
ose we ave a egy ile , and we uld ike to ind a ion ule for a gle ion ari - ble d e 123 ~ hat zes as ted ity , ing the est of the egy ile ins xed .
ion 123 let ~ be a ion ule for a ble d in a aid 123
hen ~ is mal for a egy ile a if , in the ced aid ad ( a - d ) ( ere the nly ing ion ode is d ) , the egy ile ( ~ ) is a ash ium .
ven his ion of ity for a egy ile ,
we can now ine gic nce .
ion 123 a ion ble d lly ies on a ion ble d in a aid 123 if ere are two egy les a and a ~ uch hat a and tr ~ fer nly at d ~ , but ome ion ule for d is mal for cr and not for a
if d oes not ely on d ~ , hen a ion ule for d hat is mal for a egy ile a is lso mal for any egy ile a hat ers rom a nly at d
it rns out hat gic nce nds to a sim - ple aph - tic rty in a aid .
to gin ith , sup - ose we ave a egy ile a for a aid 123 , and con - der ing an mal ion ule for d in 123 ( a - o ) , ere d is the nly ion ode .
the ity of the ion ule at d nds nly on the ity des / 23o hat are nts of d in the aid .
the her ity des are ant , use the ion at d not nce hem .
now , sed on the nce ies ied by the aph ure , we can ove the ing mma :
mma 123 let 123 be a ion ule for a ion ble d e 23a in a aid 123 , and let a be a egy ile for 123
hen ~ is mal for a if and nly if for ery nti - ion pad of pa ( d ) ere pm ( pad ) > o , the ity ion ~ ( d ( pa ) is :
eud pa u e x pa ( u )
so to be mal for a egy ile a , a ion ule
ust has to sfy ion 123
if the ion ing axi - zed in ion 123 is ent of the ion ule hat a gns to her ion ble d ~ , hen d oes not ely on d .
hus , we uld ike a cal ion for de - ing hen his ion is ent of the ion ule for ome ode .
the ate mal ion rns out to be hat of a ite ity ode .
ion 123 let 123 ( and y be ets of les in the di - ted lic aph ned by a bn or aid .
hen a ode z is a ite ity ode for the ery p ( x i y ) ere ist two ons 123 and pz hat ign pds to all the des in the aph , uch hat 123 and 123 fer nly at z , tpl ( xly ) 123 ( x i y ) ely , the ion ule at d ~ is nly ant to d if d ( wed as a nce ode ) is a ant ity ode for p ( ud i d , pa ( d ) ) .
ger et al .
( 123 ) ide a cal ion for est - ing her a ode z is a ite ity ode for a ery p ( x i y ) .
we add to z a new " mmy " ent 123 ose ues ond to pds for z , ted rom ome set of ble pds .
hen z is a ite ity ode for p ( x i y ) if and nly if z can nce x ven y .
his ion can ily be ked ing the ard ion of ive ths in the bn .
hus , z is a ite ity
ode for p ( x i 23; ) if and nly if ere uld be an ive ath rom a new ent of z to x , ven y .
sed on his sis , we can ine s - ity , a cal ion for ing gic nce .
ote hat ike d - ion in ian rks , s - ity is not ily a ric ion .
ion 123 a ode d ~ is s - ble rom a ode d in a aid if ere is ome ity ode u e ud uch hat if a new ent d ~ ere ded to d ~ , ere uld be an ive ath rom d ~ to pa ( u ) ven pa ( d ) u ( d ) .
as we now how , s - ity
is und and ete for gic nce in the ame nse hat d - ion is und and ete for nce in ian rks .
rem 123 ( ess ) if d and d ~ are two ion des in a aid and d is not s - ble rom d in the aid , hen d oes not ely on d .
rem 123 ( ess ) if a ode d is s - ble rom a ode d in a aid , hen ere is ome aid ith the ame aph ure in ich d ies on d
as for bns , the ess ult is hat ker : s - ity oes not ply nce in ery aid .
we can ose the ies and ies in the aid in uch a way hat the nce of one ion ule on an - her oes not est elf .
ver , s - ity is the ost ise cal ion we can use " it ill not den - ify a gic nce ess hat nce lly sts in ome aid hat has the ven aph ure .
our oof of his rem ves ing an ate ign - ent of pds and ity ons to the aid , and de - nds on the ess oof in ( ger , rma , & arl
nce gic nce is a ary ion , we can rep - ent it as a ted aph .
as we how low , his aph rns out to be ely ful .
ion 123 the nce aph for a aid 123 is a aph ose des are the ion des of . m , and ose ges are the irs of des ( d , d ~ ) uch hat d ies on d
the aph for a ven aid , we eed to ine , for ach ion ode d , the set of des d hat are s - ble rom d .
ing an thm uch as ers yes - all ( ter 123 ) , we can ind his set for any ven d in ime ear in the ber of des in the aid .
by ing the thm for ach d , we can de - ive the nce aph in ime tic in the ber of
it is ing to der the nce phs of ous ple mes .
in the les in ure 123 , the ion ode d ngs to ent a , and d ngs to ent b .
ple ( a ) nts a ect - ion ame .
nce ent b can rve the lue of d , he oes not eed to now the eci - ion ule for d in der to ate his ons .
hus , d oes not ely on d .
on the her and , ent a not ob - rve d ~ hen she kes ion d , and d ~ is ant to as ity , so d ies on dq ple ( b ) nts a ame ere the nts do not ave ect ion : ent b not rve d hen ing ion d .
ver , the
the thm is a ion of ing ard in - ion hms for ion ees and ect ion mes ( elo 123 ) and for nce ams ( sen , sen , & mer 123 ) .
the sic dea is as ows : in der to ize the ion ule for d , we eed to now the ion ule for all ons d ~ hat are ant for d .
for ple , the nce aph for the roo lor ex - ple ( ure 123 ( a ) ) ows hat to ize ree , we ust rst ide on the ion les for tio and tor .
ver , we can ize tor ith - out ing the ion les for her of the her de - ion les .
ing ded on the ion ule for tor , we can now ize tio and hen fi -
ure 123 : nce phs for ( a ) the ree lor le; ( b ) the oad ple ith n =
in his ple ase , the nce aph is lic , low - ing us to ess the les one at a ime .
in ral , ver , we ght ave les in the nce ph; e . g . , ure 123 ( b ) ins the nce aph for the oad xam - ple ith n = 123
ere , we not lly ize in - ual ons , use at ous nts in the ess , ere is no ion ode hat nly ies on ons for ich we ave ady ned a ion ule .
ver , we can orm a ard ion ess ver ets ion 123 a set s of des in a ted aph is a gly ted ent ( scc ) if for ery air des d ~ d e s , ere sts a ted ath rom d to d ~ .
a mal scc is an scc hat is not a ict set of any her scc .
the mal ccs are ned in ure 123 ( b ) .
we can ind the mal ccs of a aph in ear ime , uct - ing a ent aph ose des are the mal ccs of the nce aph .
ere is an dge rom ent c to ent c ~ in the ent aph if and nly if ere is an dge rom ome ent of c to ome ent of c ~ in the nce aph .
the ent aph is ays lic ( men , son , & est 123 ) .
hus , we can ine an ing 123 , . . .
, cm ver the mal ccs of the nce aph , uch hat ver i < j , no ent of cj ies on any ent of ci .
ure 123 : ive ple ids ( top ) , and eir nce phs ( tom ) .
a two - lor ond nts a air ity des , one for ach ent , ith the ame nts .
ion is " ect ugh " : the ity for b oes not end on d tly , but nly on the nce ode , ich b can rve .
nce d ~ oes not ely on d .
les ( c ) and ( d ) ent ios ere the nts ove sly , and hus her can rve the ers ove .
in ( c ) , ach nts ity ode is ced by oth ons , so d ies on d ~ and d ~ ies on d .
hus , the nce aph is lic .
in ( d ) , ver , the rel - nce aph is lic ite the act hat the nts ove sly .
the nce ere is hat ent a no ger res hat ent b oes , use her ity is not ced by bs ion .
in cal rms , ere is no ive ath rom d ~ to as ity ode ven d .
one ght ude hat a ion ode d ~ ver ies on a ion ode d hen d is ved by d ~ , but the ion is ore tle .
der ple ( e ) , ich rep - nts a ple ard ame : ent a ves a ard , and des her to bet ( d ) ; ent b ves nly ent as bet , and des her to bet ( d ~ ) ; the ity of oth de - nds on eir ets and the lue of the ard .
ven ugh ent b ves the ual ion in d , he eds to now the ion ule for d in der to now hat the lue of d lls him out the nce ode .
hus , d ~ ies on d; eed , hen d is ved , ere is an ive ath rom d hat uns ugh the nce ode to the ity ode .
ing ide &
the ion of a ash ium for a ame is ar - bly the key nal ask in ame ory .
in his ion , we how how the ure of the aid can be ex - ted to ide lly ter hms for ing
the key ght ind our thm is the use of the nce aph to eak up the ask of ing an lib - ium nto a ies of sks , ach ver a uch ler ame .
nce hms for ing ria mes ave ity hat is ear in the ber of els in the ame ree , ing the ame nto ler mes ill tly ove the ity of ing a bal ium .
sed on his ion , we can now ide a ide -
and - uer thm for ing ash ria 123 let ~ r be an ary lly xed egy ile
let 123 - be a ial egy ile for c ( m - 123 hat is
ori = 123 ghm - 123 :
ash ium in . all / cri - - c ( m - i )
123 put ~ rr ~ as an ium of . m
= ( o " ( n_i ) )
the thm tes rds ver the ccs , ing
an ium egy ile for ach scc in the aid ced by the sly ted ion les ( ith ar - ary ion les for ome ons hat are not ele - ant for his scc ) .
ing the ium in his ced aid res the use of a ine for ing lib - ria in mes .
we ply ert the ced aid nto a ame ree , as bed in ion , and use a ard ame - ing thm ( vey & nan 123 ) .
if the nce aph is lic , ach scc sts of a gle ode , so ach ion is zed by elf .
in his ase , the thm is ery lar to the ard ard ion thm in ect ion mes .
ver , we ain lic nce phs in a der nge of itu - ons .
for ple , the nce aph of the reo ler ple is lic , ugh the ame oes not ave ect
the oof hat his thm is ect res a se - nce of mas .
so far we ave red gic rel - nce nly as a ary ion een des .
ose 123 is a ion ule for 123 hat is mal for a egy ile a , and 123 ies on her 123 nor 123
hen ing ~ z at her 123 or 123 oes not ect the ity of 123
but one ght rry hat ing ( r at oth 123 and 123 ght use 123 to ose ity .
the ing mma ows hat uch a ing not pen : if we ave a set of ons one of ich are lly ant , hen the ire set is not mma 123 let ~ r be a egy ile , d be a ion ode , and 123 be a ion ule for d hat is mal for ~ r .
if ~ rr is her egy ile uch hat cr ( d ) - - or ( d ) ver d ies on dr , hen 123 is lso mal for ~ r
oof : we eed by ion on the ber k of des ere ~ r and cr ~ fer .
for the ase ase , k = 123 and cr = cr so it is ous hat 123 is lso mal for crr .
now as an duc - ive sis , ume the mma lds ver ~ z and a fer on tly k des .
hen ose cr and ar fer on k + 123 des .
ect any ode d uch hat ~ r ( d ) ~ cr ( d ) .
by the ons of the mma , his ans d oes not ely on dr .
now uct a egy ile 123
hat ees ith ~ r on all des but dr , and ees ith ~ rr on dr .
use ~ r and # fer nly on d , 123 ust lso be mal for 23; oth - ise d uld ely on dr .
but 123 " and crr fer on nly k des , so by the ive sis , 123 is mal for ar as
hus , we can nge the ion les for a ole set of des hat are ant for d out ing the mal -
ity of a ion ule for d .
but in our ide and uer thm , we are ned ith the ity of a par - ial egy ile 123 - for an ire set c of ion des .
rly , if one of the ion des in c ely on a ode d ~ ~ c , hen ing the ion ule for d uld not ive . any ent an ive to ate at a gle ion ode in c .
but ght an ent ant to ate at ral ion des sly ?
we can wer his ion in the ive if we ake the ard ion of ect all : nts ver get eir ous ons or ons .
ore lly :
ion 123 an ent a has ect all ith ect to a tal der - 123 ver 23a if for all d ) dr e 123 , , d - - 123 d
hat d e pa ( d ) and pa ( d ) c pa ( d ) .
ote hat if d and its nts are nts of d ~ , hen ere not be an ive ath rom a new ent / 123 of d to any ant of d , ven dr and pa ( dr ) .
hus , by heo - rem 123 , dr oes not ely on d .
his ion ads to the
mma 123 if an ent has ect all ith ect to a tal der - ~ , and 123 - . < d ~ , hen d ~ oes not ely on d .
we can now how hat if a gle ent has no ive to ate at a gle ion ode , hen he has no ive to ate at any oup of des .
mma 123 let . 123 be a aid ith a gle ent a , who has ect all let ~ r be a egy for a in . hd uch hat for ery d e 123 , ~ r ( d ) is mal for cr .
hen crb a ash ium in . 123
oof : to how hat cr is a ash ium , we ust how hat for all her ies ~ # :
we eed by ion on the ber k of ons ere a and ar fer .
if k = 123 , hen cr = a , so bvi - sly eua ( ~ r ) = eu ~ ( cry ) .
as an ive sis , ose hat ver ~ rr ers rom cr on k or wer des ,
now ose ( 123 ers rom er on k + 123 des .
nce has ect all , mma 123 lls us ere is a tal der - . < ver 123 uch hat ver d - 123 dr , d oes not ely on d .
let d* be the ast ion in his ing uch hat ( rr ( d* ) 123 ~ ( r ( d* ) .
hat is , if crr ( d ) ~ r ( d ) , hen d = d* or d - 123 d* .
in her ase , d* oes not ely on d .
let 123 = a ( d ) , and 123 = at ( d ) .
we are ven hat is mal for cr .
but nce ar ers rom cr nly at des hat d* oes not ely on , we now by mma 123 hat 123 is lso mal for ~ rr .
in lar , 123 lds at ast as uch ted ity as 23r in . m ( 123 " % . )
eua ( c / _d , , 123 ) >_ eua ( a )
the ion of ash ium in the gle ent ase re - ces to the ler ion of the ent ing lly der
but the egy ( t_d . , 123 ) ers rom a at nly k ion des , so by the ive sis :
eua ( ( 123 ) > eua ( a_o . , 123 )
so by ity :
eua ( a ) _> eua t )
ven his ult , we can how hat ing the ion les for des hat are not ant to any ode in a set c oes not ect the ity of a ial egy ile ver mma 123 let a be a egy ile for a aid . all ere ery ent has ect all , and let r be a ial egy ile for a set 123 of ion des in . m .
ose t is a ash ium in . m ( a - c ) , and e is a set of ion des in m ( int rom c ) uch hat no ode in c ies on any ode in 123
hen if a is her egy ile hat ers rom a nly on 123 , t is lso a ash ium in
oof : for ach ent a , let ca = c fq 23a .
if ca # 123 , let ta be the ion of r to ca , and 123 - _a be the ion of t to 123 \ ca .
by the ion of a ash ium , it ces to how hat in the ced aid . m ( a ~ _c ) , no ent a has an ive to ate rom ra to her egy ra , ing the her nts ere to t .
in her rds , we ust how hat ta is a ash ium in the ced gle - ent in - nce ram . m ( l_c , t - a ) .
der an ary ion d e ca .
we are ven hat r is an ium in . m ( a - c ) , so the ion ule ra ( d ) is mal for ( a - c , r ) .
we are lso ven hat ( r ers rom a nly at des hat are ant for d .
so by mma 123 , ~ - a ( d ) is lso mal for ( a ~ _c , t ) .
his is ent to ing hat ta ( d ) is mal for the egy ta in . m ( a ~ _c , ~ - _a ) .
nce ery ta ( d ) is mal for ta , mma 123 ies hat ta is a ash ium .
all hat our thm ces a egy ile atm .
mma 123 ies hat for ach scc c in the nce aph , the ial egy ile hat am ies for c is a ash ium in . m m_c ) .
hus , no ent has an ive to ate rom am on the des hin any gle scc .
we now ove a mma hat zes mma 123 , ing hat in act , no ent has an ive to ate rom am on any oup of des .
mma 123 let . 123 be a aid ere ery ent has ect all , and let 123 , . . .
, cm be ets of ion des in . m uch hat ver i < j , no ent of cd ies on any ent of ci .
lf a is a egy ile for 123 uch hat for ach i e ( 123 , m ) , ac , is a ash ium in . aa ( a - c , ) , hen a is a ash ium for m .
oof : we ust how hat for any ent a and any ter - ive egy tr ~ for i ) a , eua ( a ) _> eua ( a - a , a ~ ) .
eed by ion on the ber of ets ci ere aa and fer .
the ase ase is ere hey fer on ero ts; hen aa = aa and eua ( a ) eua ( a , a ~ a ) .
as an ive
sis , ose hat ver a or wer ets , eua ( a ) _> eua ( a - a , a ) .
ers rom aa on k
now ose aa
ers rom aa on k + 123 ets .
for ach set ci , let ci , a = fqt ) a .
let cj be the ast set in the ing ere the ial egy les aa ( cj , a ) and er ~ ( cj , a ) are ent .
let " ca = aa ( cj , a ) , and r ~ = a ~ ( cj , a ) .
nce a ( cj ) is an ium in . m ( _cj ) , we now hat ra is an ium in . m ( a - a , ( aa ) - cj ) .
but a ~ ers rom aa nly on ets ci ere i < j , and no ode in cj ies on any ode in ese ets .
so by mma 123 , " ca is lso an ium in . m ( a - a , ( a ) - cj ) .
in lar , ra lds at ast as uch ted ity as q - ~ in . m ( a - a , ( a ~ ) - c ~ ) .
eux ~ ( a - a , ( a ~ ) - c ~ , ~ - a ) > 123 ( a - a ,
but ( ( aa ) ooj , dif ers fro m aa on nly k s ets .
so by the ive sis :
eum ( a ) > eum ( a - a ,
so by ity :
123 ( a ) > eu ~ ( a - a , cr ~ ) .
ing his mma , we can lly ove the ess of
rem 123 if . m is a aid ere ery ent has ect all , hen the egy ile crm ved by the thm ove is a ash ium for . &t .
oof : der any scc c ( m - i ) , ere < i < m . by ion , ai+ ~ gns to c ( m - i ) a ial egy pro - ile t hat is a ash ium in a / / ( _c ( ~ _o ) .
use ( m - i ) ses as i ses rom one ion of the thm to the ext , am ers rom ai nly on ccs cj ere j < ( m - i ) .
use the ing of ccs a cal ing in the nce aph , no ode in c ( m - i ) ies on any ode in cj ere j < ( m - i ) .
ere - ore am ees ith ai on all des hat are ant for any ode in c ( m - i ) .
so by mma 123 , t is a ash ium in . m ( . _c ( m_ , ) ) .
nce his is rue for ery scc , mma 123 ies hat am is a ash ium in . m .
to ate the ial ngs ing rom our al - thm , we ied it on the oad ple .
as own in the nce aph in ure 123 ( b ) , the ion for a ven lot ies on the ons out the lot oss rom it and the lot tly to the uth .
ver , it oes not ely on the ion out the and tly rth of it , use his de - ion is ved .
one of the her ons ect his nts ity tly .
the ccs in the nce aph all ave ize 123 : hey ond to irs of ons out ots hat are oss rom ach her .
ven for all ues of n , it is ble
the oad ple ith ard ame - ing hms .
ose the nce and ion les ach ave ree ble ues , ing to ree pes of ngs .
hen the ame ree ing to the oad aid has 23n nal des .
nce ach ent ( ept the rst can rve ree ary les , he has 123 ion ets .
so the ber of ble ure ( tic ) ate - ies for ach ent is 23r , and the ber of ure egy les for all n ers is ( 123 ) ( n - 123 ) ( 123 ) 123
in the sim - est ing ase , ere n = 123 , we ain a ame ree ith 123 nal des , and ard ion hms uld eed to ate on a gic - orm ame rix ith out 123 x 123 ies ( one for ach ure egy ile ) .
ber of ots of and
ide end uer thm
ure 123 : nce lts for the oad ple .
ure 123 ows how our ide - and - uer thm rms on the oad ple .
we ted ach of the ced ids ted ing the thm nto a all ame ree , and sed the ame ver bit ( mck - vey , nan , & ocy 123 ) to lve it .
as ted , the ime red by our thm ows lly ith n .
hus , we can lve a oad aid ith 123 nts ( rre - ing to a ame ree ith 123 nal des ) in out our and 123 tes .
and ure ork
we ave ced a new ism , lti - ent nce ams ( ids ) , for ing lti - ent ios ith ect ion .
ids low the nal nde - nce ure of a rio to be ted lic - ing the ate ace ion ich ues oth gic - orm and ive - orm mes .
we ave lso own hat ids low us to ine a ive aph - sed ion hat nts gic nce , and to ex - oit it as the sis for hms hat ind ria ffi -
ugh the ity of ing nce ams to lti - ent ios was zed at ast een ars ago ( ter 123 ) , the dea ems to ave een ant for ome ime .
adi and icz ( 123 ) ave sed nce ams as a ork for ing in lti - ent ems .
the cus of eir ork is ery fer -
ent , and hey do not der the nal its ved rom the nce ram ion .
lch and ler ( 123 ) use lti - ent nce ams as nal ork for ing out nts be - efs and ons .
ver , hey do not eal tly ith the ion of a aid nto a ame ree , and ave pen the ion of how to ind ria .
son and zen ( 123 ) ave one ted ork on ted mem - ory nce ams , or ids .
ugh hey ion hat ids uld be ied to lti - ent ios , hey nly der the use of ids to eed up nce in
ids are lso ted to la ras ( 123 ) ame net - rks , ich ate oth tic and ity nce .
la ura nes a ion of gic nce , and lso ses it to eak up the ame nto ate nts .
ver , his ion of gic is an ted one , and hus oes not low as ine - ned a ion as the ted nce aph sed in his per , nor the use of a ard ion ess for eci - ons hat are not lly ent .
his ork ves any ing pen ons .
rst , ere is a eat eal of ork to be one in ing ids to ing pts in ame ory , rly ium nts .
on the mic ont , the ost ing ion is her we can ake age of nce ure hin ccs in the nce aph .
on the rep - nal ont , it is ant to end ids to eal ith ric ons , ere the ons to be ade and the ion ble end on ous ons or nce ves .
ame ees ent uch try in a ral way , eas in ids ( as in nce dia - ams and bns ) , a ive ion of an ric ads to ary wup .
we may be ble to oid ese ies ing ext - ity , as in ( ier et al .
23; ith , man , & son 123 ) , ing the est of the ame ree and aid ons .
in ids by tly
