two of the ost ant ads of ork in dge ion day are ame - sed ion ems ( rss ) and ian rks ( bns ) .
rss ide an ex - ent ion for the nal ure of rge lex ins , but eir ity is ted use of eir ity to eal ith nty and ise .
bns pro - ide an ive and ent tic ion of our nty , but are ery ted in eir ity to dle lex red ins .
in his per , we ide a lan - age hat nly tes ese hes , ing the ges of oth .
our ach ows us to ide ral and act ons of ity els for a ass , in a way hat is cal to the ass ame .
ese els can be ted for any set of ted ces , ing in a ent ity ion ver the nce per - ies .
our age lso ows us to ent ant pes of nty hat not be ted hin the ame - ork of nal bns : nty ver the set of ies ent in our del , and nty out the ips een ese ies .
we ide an nce thm for our age via a ion to nce in ard ian rks .
we ibe an ted tem hat ows ost of the ain ame ems in nce day to ate eir dge ses ith tic ion , and to use hat ion in ing tic ies .
ame ion ems ( rss ) are tly the pri - ary ogy sed for rge ale dge nta - ion in ai ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
eir lar ion ing to ely ful ies and eir ity to ure rns mon to any als ide a ent age for ing lex red ain mod - els .
one of the ost ant aps in the ive wer of his ype of ork is its ity to ent and son ith ain and isy ion .
nty is ble in the eal rld : our ion is ten nac - ate and ays ete , and nly a few of the les hat we use for ing are rue in all ble ses .
in the nal ing , his lem has ely een ved ver the ast ade by the ent of
ght 123 , can ion for ial lli -
nce ( www . aai . org ) .
all hts ved .
tic ing ems , and rly ian rks ( 123 ) .
a ian ork ( bn ) is a ion of a ull int ion ver a set of dom es; it can be sed to wer ies out any of its les ven any nce .
a bn ows a lex ion to be ted tly by ing the ity of nce in our del of the rld .
but , ike all nal ems , the ity of bns is ely ted to ons hat can be ded , in nce , ing a xed set of tes .
hus , hey are ate for rge - ale lex kr sks .
ing on our ent ork ( 123 , 123 ) , we ose a sen - ion age hat tes ame - ion ems and ian rks , eby ing the rst dge een ese two ery ent ads of ork in kr .
the key ent in our ion is the ion of a ame ith a ity del .
his ity del is , dly ing , a bn ing a ion ver the ble ues of the ots in the ame .
hat is , ach sim - ple lot in the ame is ted ith a cal ity del , ing the nce of its lue on the val - ues of ted ots .
for ple , in a ame ing a phd ent , the lue of the lot ars - to - ion may end on the lot ear and the lot ain sor . cky .
as we can see ven rom his ple ple , by ild - ing on ard frs ity , our ach des tly ore ive wer han nal bns .
for ple , by ing the ity del of a lot to end on a lot ain , we low the ies of one in - nce in the del to end on ies of her ted ces .
we can lso use the ard ass chy of the frs to low the ity del of a ass to be sed by ple ces of hat ass , and to low nce of ity els rom ses to ses , ing the ame ism in ich lot ues are tly ted .
lly , by ing ain als rst - ass ens in our ork we can lso ess a new and ant ype of nty led ral nty .
we can ave a tic del ing our nty out the set of ies in our del , e . g . , the ber of phd nts in a ent .
we can lso ent nty out ons een ies , e . g . , ich of ral ces a per red in .
we ide a tic nce thm for our age sed on an ach own as dge - sed
del ion .
the thm kes a dge ase in our age , ing a set of ces , and tes a ard bn ich can hen be ied ely for our efs out the lue of any ots .
our ity del is sed ing ard ame ion ues uch as ets and lue ric - ons .
his rty is ant , nce it ows our ach to be sed ith lly any ame tem , and eby to ate ing kbs ith tic ion .
lar , we ave ted a tem sed on our ap - ach , ble of ing ith ost ing rss via kbc ( 123 ) , an ing ard for frs ity .
our ork is a ant ent ver ous ap - hes to ing rst - der gic and ian net - rks .
ost of the pts in his ion ( e . g . , ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) use tic orn ses as the sic ion .
the ice of orn ses as an ing age al - ady tes ome of the ies of the ion , e . g . , its ity to ate an ect and its ies hin a ely ful ame .
ver , the use of ral nty in his ork lly ses ial wup of the ing els , ing ost hes to law it ely .
our ork lso ver - mes ome jor ons of our ier als ( 123 , 123 ) , by ing oth ral nty ( ent in the rst ) and tic ies een ces ( ent in it lso des the ial ity , ent in oth , to ate lex els ing any ces hat are ted to ach her in a ety of ays .
123 sic ion
we gin ith ome sic ogy for ame ems .
the ogy ies ely rom tem to tem .
his per we opt the age and sic dge del of the kbc col ( 123 ) .
the sic nit of rse in a ame tem is a ame .
a ame has a set of ots , ach of ich may ave lot ues or ers .
lly , a lot nts a ary ion on es; if the ler of lot a in ame x is ame y , hen the ion ax; y lds .
in ral ots may be gle - ued or lti - ued .
in his ion we ume hat ots are gle - ued .
his ion ill be xed in ion 123
a lot - ain is a nce of ero or ore ots ted by ods .
a lot - ain nts a ary ion : the lot - ain a : ere a is a lot and is a lot - ain tes the ion fx; z j ax; y ^ y; zg .
a lot in a ame may ave ted ets .
a cet is a ary ion : if the cet lue of cet f on lot a in ame x is y , hen the ion f x; a; y lds .
a ard cet is lue - ype , ich ies a lue ion on the ues of a lot .
the lue - ype of a lot ill be led its ype .
the two ain pes of mes are ass mes , ent - ing ets of ies , and nce mes .
the ass mes are zed in an is - a chy , ere one ass may be a ass of her ( its ass ) .
the ots of a ass ame may be own ots , ich ibe a rty of the ass elf , and ate ots , ich are ots ted by all ces and ses of the ass .
the ets sso - ted ith ate ots are ate ets , and are lso
ted .
an nce or ass may ide the ues of ted ots or ets .
tic ion is ted nto a ame kb by ing ass mes ith cal els .
a ass ame hat has een so ted is led a p - ass .
a p - ass has a set of ate ots , ach ith a lue - ype cet .
ing on the ype , a lot is her ple or lex .
the ype of a lex lot is her p - ass .
the ype of a ple lot is an tly ted ist of ble ues for the lot .
for ple , the phd - ent p - ass may ave a ple lot ear , ose ype is 3st , 3nd , 3rd , 3th , edg , and a lex lot sor ose ype is the p - ass sor .
a p - ass may lso ave her ots hat do not ate in the ity del , ose ype is her of the ove .
for ple , phd - ent may lso ave the lot ame , ich oes not ave an ted ity del .
his ure ows ing kbs to be ted ith tic ion , out ing a ete ign of the ogy .
a ple lot is ery uch ike a ode in a yes net .
it has a nge of ues , a set of nts , and a cpt .
a p - ass ies a ity del for its ple ots ing two ial - ose ets : nts and ion .
ets are a ral ace to put a ity del , nce uch a del can be wed as a ion of a lue ric - ion : not nly oes it ify a nge of ble ues , but lso a ion ver hat nge .
the nts cet sts the ots on ich the lue of his lot nds .
ach ent is ied by a lot - ain ing to ome her ple lot .
ore ely , let x be a p - ass and a a ple lot .
the nts cet of a is a ist of lot ins 23; : : : ; n , uch hat x : i ers to a ple lot .
for ple , in the phd - ent p - ass , ear may ave the ent ( age ) , ile the nts of ars - to - ion may be ar; sor . cky .
the ion cet ies the nal ity dis - ion ver ues of the lot ven ues of its nts .
the nal ion is ied ing a nal ity ble ( cpt ) as in ian rks .
for ach ion of ues of its nts , the cpt des a ity ion ver ues of the lot .
for the pur - ses of his per , we ume hat the pts are ted as lly ied ons of ent ues .
ore act ons uch as isy - or can ily be ted hin our ork .
the ity del of a lex lot is ply de - bed by its p - ass y .
ver , ach lex lot a lso has an nal cet led rts , ose lue is a ist of ots in y .
his ist , led the ort ist of a , is the ist of ots of y hat are ble hin x .
we ire hat if a : b : ( for a bly pty lot ain ) is a lot ain ing hin x , hen b ust be in the ort ist of a .
nce a ity del has een ied for a p - ass , the p - ass can be sed ust ike any her ass ame .
one can ate ces of the ass , ich ill rit all of its ate ots and ets .
in lar , the ity ion ver ues of ots of the nce ill be as de - bed in the p - ass .
rly , the nce ism of a ame tem can be sed to ake one p - ass a ass of her .
a ass can end the ion of the per - ass as ell as ite rts of it .
in lar , a ass
can ene the ity del of one or ore of the ots .
for ple , we can ene ate - rto be a ass of sor , and ite the ion ver ary to one hat is ate to the ore cic ass .
her im - ant ect of ing is hat an nce of a ass is lso an nce of the ass , so hat it can ll a lot ose ype is the ass .
for ple , in a lar nce of phd - ent , the lue of the sor lot may be ied to be an nce ose ass is ate - sor .
ues can be ned to an own lot of an nce ame her tly or by ent to a ate lot at the ass vel .
oth pes of nts are ted in the ame way .
an ent to a ple lot is ted as ing the lue of the lot , eby ing the ity ion for the nce .
his ing ess may ult in a nge in our efs for her ted ots .
der , for ple , a ass ing - phd - ent of phd - ent ich gns 123 to the lot ars - to - ion .
hen the ing ess ill ult in a new ity del for any nce i of his ss; in lar , our efs out i : ear and i : sor . cky ill oth nge , as ill our efs out her ted ots .
an ent to a lex lot ies hat the lue of hat lot is her lar nce .
hus , lex net - rks of ter - ted mes can be ted , uch as nts who are an sor , and nts of ent ors in the ame ent .
uch an ent at the ass vel lts in all of the ass ces ing the ame ame as eir lue for hat lot .
one of the res of a tic ame tem is hat ted mes can nce ach her .
we ave ady een one ism for uch ons : nce a ent of a lot is a lot - ain , the lue of a ple lot may be ced lly by the lue of a lot in her ame .
his ism , ver , nly ows a ame to be ced by ted mes , but not to nce hem in urn .
we lve his lty by ing a sic ure of ost rse ots .
let x and y be two ass mes , a a lot of x ith ype y , and b a lot of y ith ype x .
hen a and b are rse ots if , for ery nce i of x , if i : a = j hen j : b = i , and ice rsa .
hus , we iew an ent of a cic nce ame j to a lot i : a as ing the ing ent of i to j : b .
for hat son , we do not low nts of ues to ots uch as a at the ass el; ise , for any ven ame j of ass y , the lue of j : b uld be the set ing of ery ame of ass x , a del ich is too ldy to eal ith .
rse ots low her of the mes to fer to ots in the her , eby ing tic ies in oth ons .
ing uch ned ies out ion uld ead to bly lex ons be - een two mes .
in lar , it uld ead to a lic ain of ces hat has no ent ity del .
ore , one of the two rse say x : ais sig - ted to be the ary ion ile the ery : bis ary .
rly , x is led the ary ame , ile y is the ary ame .
a ary rse lot uch as a in x has a nts cet ust ike a ple lot , i . e . , it is a ist
of lot - ins in x .
ely , the nts of a are the nly ots of x hat are ted to y via b .
ore ely , the ent ist of a in x ust be cal to the ort ist of b in y .
hus , the ow of nce een the two mes is tly ted : the nts of a in x can nce any of the ots in y ; ome of ose can , in urn , nce her ots in x hat are eam rom a .
for ple , ose we ide hat the sis lot of phd - ent uld be an rse lot , ith its rse ing the hor lot of phd - sis .
the lot sis is ted to be ary , and is ven the ent eld in phd - ent .
hen eld is ble hin the phd - sis ass , so hat for ple , gon - ent may end on hor . eld .
her ots of phd - ent may end on ots of is; hus , for ple , job - cts may end on sis . ity , ich uld ore ave to be on the ort ist of sis .
rse ots rve a ual ose in our age .
as we aid , hey low nal ies een two ces .
but hey lso low our tic els to be red .
if , as ove , x : a and y : b are ses , and we ene an nce rom ass x , it ely ies the nce of a ing nce rom ass y .
al - ely , we uld art ing ith an ect of ass y , and tee hat the ing x ill ist .
hus , we can ene a del red und ver ies are of est to us in our ext .
in his ion we ent a ics for tic ame dge ses .
for a ven kb ith a set of ass and nce mes , our ics nes a ity ibu - ion ver the lot ues of the nce mes ( and of ome her ted nce mes ) .
in der to ene a ent ity ion , our ame kb ust sfy ral ons .
the sic eme of the ons is iar rom the alm of ian rks : our ncy del ust be lic .
ver , nce ere may be ted ins of ies oth hin a ame and een mes , and on oth the ass and nce els , we eed to lop ome ols to son out ies .
ion 123 : a ncy is a air x : a y : b , ere x and y are mes ( not ily nct ) , a is a lot of x and b is a lot of y .
we say hat x : a y : b lds if a is a ple lot of x , y = x and b : is a ent of a; a is a lex lot of x , b is in the ort ist of a , and y is her an nce ame ned to x : a or the p - ass ame ich is the lue ype of x : a .
ely , a ncy x : a y : b rts hat for ery nce ame i ent ith x ere sts an nce ame j ent ith y uch hat i : a nds ( if x is elf an nce ame i , hen nly i is ent ith x; if x is a ass , hen any nce of hat ass is ent ith x . ) ote ver , hat our ion of ies nly ers the rst lot in a ain on ich a lot ds; hus , it kes nly a rst - vel ion of ncy .
it is a ive ate of the rue ncy del , nce if x : a y : b , it is not ily the ase hat x : a nds on ery lot - ain
ile it is rly ard to ene our ion of ncy , we ave und our ion to be ate for ost ses .
ion 123 : a ncy ain is a ist 123 : 123 123 : 123 uch hat , for ach i , xi : ai 123 : 123
a ncy cle is a ncy ain hat ins and nds ith the ame lot .
ncy les ect ial ems ith our ( ugh , as ted by our ion ove , ome ect els may ear to be tic sim - ply use of our ate for tic den - ies . ) a ncy cle ing i : a , ere i is an nce ame , nds to a ble ain of pen - ies ugh ich i : a nds on elf .
uch a lic ncy , if it sts , nts us rom ing a ent ity del .
a ncy cle ing x : a for ome ass x ans hat for ery nce 123 of x ere is ome nce 123 of x uch hat 123 : a nds on 123 : a .
in ome ses , 123 and 123 are ily the ame ce; uch ses are led uly lic .
in ers , ver , hey are nct ces of the ass x .
ese ses can lso be tic , as hey may ent an ite ncy ain ing ith 123 : a : 123 : a nds on 123 : a ich de - nds on ome 123 : a , etc .
uch els lso do not lly ave ell - ned tic ics .
we ude rom his ion hat we ant to low all ncy les . 123 ome pes of ncy les are asy to ent ing ely cal ons .
cif - lly , we can ild , for ach ass x , a ncy aph for x .
his aph ins all the ots of x , ith an dge rom b to a if the ncy x : a x : b lds .
rly , if we ant to oid ncy les , his aph uld be lic .
eed , our are in ing the ncy del for rse ots ies hat if we ake all ass ncy phs lic , we oid any uly lic ncy ins at the ass vel .
lly , if we ene a ass - vel pen - ncy ain to be one in ich all the xis are p - ses , we ain the ing rem : rem 123 : if we ave a dge ase in ich all ass ncy phs are lic , hen ere are no uly lic ass - vel ncy ins .
ver , as we sed , ven ncy ins hat are not uly lic can ult in ent els .
in ion , we ave not ted nce - vel ncy ins hat are uly lic .
ely , the ral lem is not so asy to ent ing ely cal nts .
ver , we can ect her or not the kb ins a ncy cle by ing a ore bal ted aph g , led the ncy aph of the kb .
the des of g are all x : a ere x is a p - ass or med ame and a is a lot of x .
ere is an dge rom y : b to x : a if the ncy x : a y : b lds .
rly , the kb ins a ncy cle iff g is lic .
for a kb hat ins no ncy les , our oal now is to ene a ity ion ver ons
ote hat we are not ing ite nce ins ( ins of ted ces ) , ess hey ply ite ncy
to mes , i . e . , nts of ues to the ots of the mes .
ral ues ine to ake uch a ion ult .
the ost ous dea is to low the ach ken in the ics of ian rks : we ine a set of dom les , and ene a ion ver eir int lue ace .
ely , our ork is too ich to ake his ach ate .
as we ned , the set of nce mes hat we can lly fer to may be ite .
ile one ght be ble to ent his tic - lar lem , a ore ous one sts hen we ich our age ith ral nty in ons 123 and 123
hen , the set of nce mes can lso ary sti - lly , in a way hat oth nds on and ces the ues of her dom les in the del .
we ore ene our ics via a ata ing ess , hat mly les ues for the ous mes in the del .
the dom ing ess tly de - nes a ion ver the ent ble lue ign - nts : the ity of a lue ent is the ity ith ich it is ted by the ess .
ote hat , ugh a dom ing ess can lso be sed as a tic thm for ate nce , we are not ing his ch; our ing ess is ely a ght ex - ent for ing the ion .
in ion 123 , we how how a ore ard ess of act nce can be sed to ely wer ies ive to his ion .
the ing ess lds lue nts to ots of mes lly , as the ent nts are re - red .
by ing uch ial nts , we ass the lem of ing off on ite ing ins .
the ion of ite ncy ins ees hat the ing ins red to ple the lue of any ple lot ill ays ate .
ion 123 : a ial lue for an nce ame is an ent of ues ( of the ate ype ) to ome set of its ple ots , an ent of nce mes ( rom the ate p - ass ) to ome set of its lex ots , and a ial lue for ach of ese ned ces .
one nal ety ses in the ing ion .
ome nce mes may ave cic ues pre - ned to ome of the eir ots .
uch an ent can be one via an cit ent for a med nce ame , or via a ess of nce rom a ate lot of a ass to ich the nce ngs .
as we ned in ion 123 , the se - ics of uch nts is to ion the ion .
to ain the ght ics , we ake the ous odi - ion to our ata ing ess .
if , ing the ing ess , a lue is ted for a lot ich is ent ith the ved lue , we ply ard the ire ial lue ted up to hat int .
it is asy to see ( 123 ) hat the ive ity ith ich a ial lue is ner - ted in his ata ing ess is tly the ame as its ity ned on the ved lot ues .
as we sed , our ing ure lds up a par - ial lue ece by ece , as the ces are ded .
our ain ure , own in ure 123 , is ple ( i , a ) , ich les the lue of a gle ple lot a of a gle nce ame i .
in der to ple a rom the ect ion , it ust ard ain and ple her ots on ich the
if a has a lue in hen urn ach ent of a if is a lot b in i hen lse / * is of the orm : c * / let j : = lue ( i , )
ose a lue v for a ing to p a j paa end ith i : a = v if a has a pre - ned lue v hen if v = v hen ail
if is pty hen / * is of the orm b : * / if i : b is ned a lue j in hen let k : = j lse if i : b is pre - ned a lue j hen end ith i : b = j let k : = j let y be lue - ype ( b ) ate a new nce k of p - ass y end ith i : b = k if b has an rse b in k hen end ith k : b = i urn lue ( k , )
ure 123 : ata ing ing del
if the ncy aph is lic ,
lue of a nds .
lue ( i , ) nes the lue of the lex lot - ain i : , if ary ing new nce mes to ent the ues of lex ots .
hen the ure rns , the ial lue ( a bal ble in the ure ) ins a lue for i : a .
mma 123 : ple ( i , a ) , ted rom a ial lue nes a ity ion ver ons of ith a lue as - ned to i : a .
ore , the oes not end on the der in ich the nts of a are ned .
oof : the sic eps in the oof are as ows .
to ove the rst art of the rem , it ces to how hat the sam - ing thm tes .
his oof eds ing a sim - ple ive ent ver the gth of ncy ins .
to ove hat the ion is ent of the der , we rve hat a ple lot is ays ted rom the ame nal ion , ess of hen it is led , and hat the ure ons are lso ied lly .
we can now ene a ekb ure hat ses ple ( i , a ) to ple ues for the ots of all med ces in the kb .
if any all to ple ils , the ire ing ess eds to be ted .
nce a lue has een ned to all ple ots of med ces , we ave ted for all nce in the del , and ore her ing of her ots not bly ail .
ore the ion we ave ned ver the ots we ave led is the nal one .
rem 123 : if the ncy aph is lic hen sam - ekb nes a ity ion ver ial ues ich ave ues ned to all ple ots i : a for all med ces i .
123 ued ots and ber nty to his int , we ave med hat ery lot is gle - ued .
ver , ots hat ake on ple ues are a tal ept in ame ems .
the ai - sor p - ass may ave a lti - ued ers lot of ype ai - per .
to ify our ion , we ire lti - ued ots to be lex , and all ues of the lot ust be of the ame p - ass , as ied in the ots lue - ype .
to low her ots in a ame x to end on the rop - ies of a lti - ued lot a , we ust ent a way for a
lot to end on a set of ots .
as the nts in the set not be red to lly , we ust fer ead to the ies of the set .
ion 123 : a ier lot for a lti - ued lot a has the orm a : : e , a : : e , na : : e or na : : e , ere is a lot ain of a and e is an ent of the lue ype of a : .
the lue - ype of a ier lot is the set ue; seg .
ven a set of ues for a , the lue of a fer lot on a : b has ely the ing hat one uld ct; for ple , if for at ast 123 ues i of the ers lot i : act has the lue igh , hen the lue of ers . act igh is rue .
ote hat the cpt of a ier lot is ell - ned for any ber of ues of its lti - ued lot .
on the her and , no her lot can end tly on the lti - ued lot , eby ing the lem of ing ral pts ith a ble ber of nts .
a ier lot , on the her and , is ted in the ame way as a ple lot , so it may be sed as a ent of her lot .
hus , for ple , the ill - get - ure lot of the ant - sor ass may end on the ove ier lot .
so far , we ave not ied the ber of ues hat a ven lti - ued lot can ake .
in any ses , e . g . , the ber of ers , his ber is not xed .
ore , we uld ike to be ble to del ons in ich ent ers of ers are ble , and to ent our efs in ese ous ies .
in her rds , we uld ike to low ral nty ver the set of ies in the rld and the ips een hem .
nty ver the ber of ues of a lti - ued lot is a ype of ral nty led ber nty .
we can end our age to ent ber cer - nty by ing ith ach ued lot a of x a new ber lot uma , ich ges ver ome set of ral ers 23; 23; : : : ; ng ( we ume hat the ber of ues of ery lot is ded ) .
the lot uma is ted ust ike any her ple ot; it has nts and ion ets hat ibe its ity del .
hus , the ber of ues of a in x can end on ues of her ots of x and of ted mes , and it can lso be the ent of her lot .
for ple , ai - sor ill ave a ers lot , ose lue ges rom 123 to 23; ers may end on ity and in urn nce red .
as ith the ase of gle - ued ots , a cic lue i may be ted for a lti - ued lot a of oth a p - ass and a med ual .
we ret uch nts as ing hat one of as ues is i .
it oes not ent a rom ing her es; in act , ple ues may be ted for the lot .
uch nts do not ate our ber nty for his lot , but any ase ere the lot has wer han the ber of ted ers is ed; hus , we ust ion uma to be at ast the ted ber .
to ert hat a has nly the ues ned , we uld eed to tly ert a lue for uma .
it is ing to ine the ion een lti - ued ots and ses .
ume hat the ees lot has an rse sor hin the phd - ent ame .
if we now ave a ent nce ame i , hen we lly ert at ast one the lue for the ees lot in the
nce ame i : sor .
hus , ven if we ave no her ion ver out his nce ame , it ill not be a ric ber of the sor ass .
the ery act hat the sor is nes sor ies its ion by ing it on the act hat ees 123
ote hat the rse lot may lso be lti - ued .
any - any ons ive ise to lly ite nce ins .
for ple , a per may ave ral ors , who ave all ten ral ers , and so on .
ver , due to the ons on the ow of nce een ary and ary ses , an ite nce ain of his ort not ead to an ite ncy ain .
ber nty can be ted nto our ics ite ily .
we eed to add ber and ier ots nto the ncy aph .
ber ots are ted ust ike ple ots : ere is an dge nto x : uma for ach of the nts of uma in x .
if x : q is a ier lot ver x : a , ere is an dge rom x : a to x : q .
lly , we ust ake the lue of x : a end oth on x : uma and the ies it rts rom ach of its ers .
if x : a rts b , hen we ave x : a y : b , ere y is the ype of a , and x : a i : b for ery ted lue i of x : a .
the ing ess can ily be ied to unt for lti - ued ots .
hen a lti - ued lot a eds to be led for the rst ime , we ple rst a lue n for uma .
let m be the ber of ted ues for a .
if n m , the ple ils .
ise , n ( cid : 123 ) m new ces of the ype of a are ted , and the set of ues of a is set to be the m ted ers and the n ( cid : 123 ) m new ces .
rem 123 ues to old .
123 nce nty
as we aid , ral nty ows us to ent dis - ons ver els ith ent res .
ber un - nty ows us to ary the set of ces in our del .
in his ion , we ibe nce nty , ich al - ows us to ary the ons een the ces .
for ple , we may ant the nce lot of the ai - per ass to be aai ith ity 123 , and her ric ai nce ith ity 23; ote hat aai is not the lue of a ple lot , but an nce ame elf .
we end our age to ate nce nty by ing ome lex ots to be ect .
ach ect lot a is ted ith a nce lot ref a , a ple lot ose lue tes the lue of the ect lot .
ion 123 : if a is an ect lot of ype y in p - ass x , hen ref a is a ple lot in x ose lue ype is an ted set r , ach of ose ues is her : a med ual of ype y , a lot - ain of x ose ype is y , or the ass y elf .
in any nce i of x , the lue of a is ned in rms of the lue of ref a : if the lue of ref a is a med ual j , i : a = j; if the lue of ref a is a lot - ain , hen i : a = i : ; if ref a is the p - ass y , hen the lue of a is a new nce of y .
a nce lot is ted ust ike any her ple lot , so it has nts and a cpt , and can nce her ple ots .
a lue can be ned to a nce lot rom
hin its lue - ype , and the lue of the ect lot ill be ned by it .
an ect lot is ted ike any her gle - ued lex ot; it has an ort ist , and her ots can end on the ots it rts .
for cal ons , we do not low ect nts to ect ots , nor do we low hem to ave ses .
as ith ber nty , nce nty can be ted ite ily nto our ics .
we eed to add nce and ect ots to the ncy aph .
a nce lot is ted ike any her ple ot; hus , its nly ies are on its nts .
an ect lot a rly nds on ref a , so we ave a ref a .
nce a is a lex lot , it lso nds on the ots hat it rts .
ver , use of nce nty , we do not now the ame rom ich it rts ose ots .
let b be ome lot on the ort ist of a .
to be afe , we eed to unt for ery ble lue of ref a .
hus , for ach r , if is a med ual i , we ave x : a i : b; if is a lot ain c : , we ave x : a x : c; if is the ass y , we ave x : a y : b , ing the act a may ort b rom ome nce of y .
the ing ess res a all nge to ign - lex to eal ith ect ots .
hen lex is led ith an ect lot , we rst ple the lue of the ing nce lot in the ual ner , and hen ign the lue of the ect lot in the ner ter - ned by the lue of the nce lot .
ith his nge , rem 123 ues to old .
in the ing ons , we ted a ion lan - age and ics for tic ame ems .
to ete the ory , we now ent a ple nce al - thm for ing tic ies in uch a sys - tem .
our can dle any nce - sed ery , i . e . , ies out the ues of ots of ces .
for ity , we ict ion to ple ots of med ces , as her ies can ily be ced to ese .
the thm , led tbn , is sed on dge - sed del ion ( 123 ) , the ess of ing a kb and ing a bn b ing the ame ity del .
ard bn nce can hen be sed to wer ies .
des in the yes net b ave the orm i : : a ere i is an nce ame ( not ily med ) , is a bly pty lot ain , and a is a ple lot .
the rks by ard ing ong ncy ins , ing the ate des in the bn if hey do not ady ist .
ore lly , the thm ins an pen ist l of des to be sed .
lly , l ins nly the ple ots of med ces .
in ach ion , the thm ves a ode rom l , and ses it .
hen a ode is ved rom l , it is sed in one of ree ays : as a ple lot , as a lot ain , or as a ier lot .
ple ots i : a are sed as ows .
for ach par - ent i : , an dge is ded rom i : to i : a by a all to ent ( i : a , i : ) ; if i : is not ady in b , his rou - ine dds i : to b and l .
( ote hat the ent ist of any ple non - ier lot is xed . ) hen all nts ave een ded , the cpt is ted rom the ion cet
a lot ain i : b : is sed as ows :
if b is ect hen if b is ned a lue j in i hen k = j lse k = xi : b , ere x is the ype of b in i set cpt of i : b : to opy the lue of k : lly , if b is ned a med ual j in i , hen i : b = j .
ise , i : b = xi : b , an nce of x hat oes not ear ere lse in the kb; hly , xi : b ves the ole of a lem ion .
her way , the lue of i : b is own to be ome her ame k , so hat i : b : is ual to k : .
we ake k : a ent of i : b : , and ene the cpt to rce his ity .
ese ate des ong the lot ain are ced to tor the ow of ues ugh lex ots .
hey are ded use the ow mes ted hen the ain ins ect ots .
ate les hat are ous can ily be ted in a ple ost - ing ase .
if b is ect , hen the lue of i : b uld be one of ral mes , ing on the lue of the nce lot i : ref b .
for any lue of i : ref b , let k ote the ame ich is the lue of i : b .
the lue of i : b : is ual to the lue of k : .
in her rds , i : ref b cts the lue of i : b : rom a set of ies .
ore , the ode i : b : is a xer ode ( 123 ) ; it has as nts the ode i : ref b and all des k : b : , and it ses the lue of i : ref b to ect , as its lue , the lue of one of its for ach lue of i : efb if is a med ual j hen k = j if is the lot ain hen k = i : if is the ass y hen k = y i : c set cpt for i : b : to ect the lue of ki : b : it ins to eal ith the ses ced by ber nty .
nce a lti - ued lot a can nly be sed by ier ots , ese are the nly ots ich we eed to der .
der a ier lot i : q ver a : .
the lue of i : q is lly ned by i : uma and the lue of in ach of the ble ues of a .
let n be the mum ber of uch ues , and ose hat a is ned m ues 23; : : : ; jm in i .
in ion to ese , ere can be up to n ( cid : 123 ) m her ces hat are ues for a; we ild a ame for ach of hem , jm + 23; : : : ; jn .
the ode i : q nds on i : uma and on the ate set of the les ji : ; i . e . , if uma is k , hen nly 23; : : : ; jk ill nce i : q .
the act orm of the nce ill end on the orm of the ier .
for ple , a nti - er lot ill be a tic ion of the ate set of its nts .
ier ( i : q ) / * a ier ver a : * / let n be the mum lue of i : uma let j 23; : : : ; j m be the ned ues to i : a for i = m + 123 to n j i = xii : a , ere x is the ype of i : a
ure 123 : art of the ted bn for rof .
mps ure ase .
els for nly two of the fty ble ers are own .
per ( i ) is and for per ( ump . ers ) ( i ) , and onf ( i ) is ort for onf ( per ( ump . ers . nce ) ( i ) ) .
the bn ted for
for i = 123 to n ent ( i : q , j i : ) set the cpt for i : q to end on j 123 : ; : : : ; j uma : to ate the thm , ure 123 ows art a kb ing the ure ase of one rof .
ump , an nce of ai - ant - sor .
the ode ump . ill - get - ure nds on ump .
123 ( ers . act : igh ) .
the ter is a ier lot , so it has as nts ump : ers and the act lot of ach of the 123 ble ers .
now , ume hat the ass per has act ing on nce . ige .
his nce is ted for ach of the 123 ble pa - ers .
the lot nce is ect , so hat for ach i ( ing the and of the ure ) per ( i ) . onf . ige has the ent per ( i ) . ref ( onf ) and the ige lot of the ble ues of hat nce , ich are aai and onf ( i ) .
ing ver the all ure of the thm , we see hat ere is a nce een the ure of the ncy aph g and hat of the bn b .
we can de - ne a ing rom des of b to des of g as ows : i : a : is i : a if i is a med ual , and x : a her - ise for x the p - ass of i .
ely , the ode x : a in g is a ive for all the des i : a ere i is a ric nce of x .
mma 123 : if ere is an dge rom ode 123 to ode 123 in b , hen ere is an ath rom 123 to 123 in g .
in her rds , g ves as a ate for the ies in b .
any ges in b may map to the ame ath in g , but any cle or ite ncy in b ill ily map to a cle in g ( use g is ite ) .
his rty is the sis for the ing rem .
if the ncy aph is lic , con - tbn tes and the ted yes net is lic .
his ion lso des us ith an ive pec - ion for the ion ned by a tic ame kb .
ely , the bn nds to the ior ion ned by the kb .
in lar , the cpt of a uma lot can ibe a ive ity to uma = 123 , ite the act hat one or ore ues ave een ted for a in the
in der for b to ent the ion ned by our ics , we ust ion it on all of our ons .
lly , we ert the lue for any ple lot ose lue was ned in the kb , and wer nds on the lue of uma ing to the ber of ues ted for a ( ing tly via ses ) .
rem 123 : let s be the set of ple ots of med als , and e the nce on ple ots and ber ots ved rom the kb .
hen rbs j e is the ame as the ion ver s ned by our ics .
we ave ted our ach hin a tem hat ins the ing ity : a cal ork - sed tor / ser can be sed to ate a ame kb ith the ets ing its ity del .
the edi - tor / ser cts ith the ing frs ing kbc , hus ing its use ith any of the ing ame ems ( e . g . , ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) .
our nce ent lso cts to the frs via bc; it cts the ant ion out mes , ces , and eir tic els , cts the bn ing to the kb , and zes the bn to an - wer tic ies .
the tem has een ted lly ith the gua ame tem ( 123 ) and was sed for ing ple els of cle ent rns in a ary ing .
our nce ith the sys - tem wed hat ven ery ple els ith ree or our ple p - ses uld be sed to ate rly ted bns ( ith eds of des ) ing ral ing
123 ion and ons
in his per , we ave bed the rst ion een two of the ost ant ads of ork in kr .
our lan - age des a ean sis een the tic ing ent and ard ame ing bil - ies .
rom the ive of ame ems , our tem ows ing ame kbs to be ted ith tic els , tly ing the ity of ame ems to ex - ess ful dge in eal - rld ons .
we ave lso ded an nce thm ble of wer - ing tic ies out ces , eby ing a ant ase to the ial ity of uch ems .
rom the ive of tic ing , our age des the ols for the ion of els for ery rge lex ins , tly ing up our ity to do ain ing .
our age has ven us the ing ity of cre - ing hly ive tic els ith ral nty .
rly , we ave nly hed the ace of his dea .
for ple , it is asy to add nty ver the ype of an ect , e . g . , to ene a ity ibu - ion ith ich a sor is an ant , ate , and ull sor .
it is lso asy to ine ber and nce nty , ing , for ple , the sor of a ent to be ted rom the set of lty ers in the cs ent .
ese are two of any ble ons hat can now be red .
her ant sue ich we ave lly ved is the nce lem for tic ame - sed mod - els .
we ave own how we can uce the lem to hat of
ing in a ard bn , but his ach oes not ake ull use of the ure ded in our ion .
lar , it ils to oit ion of mes hin her mes and the use of ass els ong ral cts .
ese eas are put to ood use in ( 123 , 123 ) , and it is an ant rch pic to ply hem in our her ame - ork .
we eve hat by ing ese res in our nce as ell as in our ion , we ill be ble to ely ent and son in rge ain ins .
nts his ork was ted by onr con - act 123 - 123 - c - 123 der pas pkb ram , by rpa act 123 - 123 - c - 123 der act to ion ion and ort , inc . , and ugh the ity of the ell ion and the oan nda -
