any eal - rld ins are nal in ure , ing of a set of cts ted to ach her in lex ays .
his per ses on ing the nce and the ype of nks een ies in uch ins .
we ply the nal kov ork ork of kar et al .
to ene a int lis - tic del ver the ire ink aph ity tes and nks .
the ion of the rmn thm to his ask res the ion of tic rns ver aph res .
we ply his hod to two new nal ets , one ing ity ges , and the her a ial ork .
we how hat the ive ion ach of mns , and the ion of aph rns ver ink els , ide ant nts in acy ver at ion , ich pts to ict ach ink in ion .
any eal rld ins are hly red , ing ies of ple pes hat are ted to ach her ugh a ork of ent pes of nks .
uch ata ses new ges to ine ing .
one nge ses rom the ask of ing ich ies are ted to ich ers and hat are the pes of ese ips .
for ple , in a ata set ing of a set of ked ity ges , we ght ant to ict not ust ich age ngs to a sor and ich to a ent , but lso ich sor is ich nts sor .
in ome ses , the nce of a hip ill be ted by the nce of a ink een the ges , and we ill ave nly to ide her the ink cts an sor - see hip .
in her ses , we ght ave to fer the ery nce of a ink rom ect nce , uch as a rge ber of co - red ers .
in a ery ent ion , we ght ant to ict nks ing ion of als in ain ist ies .
one ble ach to his ask is to der the nce and / or ype of the ink ing nly tes of the lly ked ies and of the ink elf .
for ple , in our ity ple , we ght try to ict and ify the ink ing the rds on the two ges , and the hor rds on the ink ( if ent ) .
his ach has the age hat it ces to a ple ion ask and we can ply ard ine ing ues .
ver , it ely res a ich rce of ion hat is que to his ask the aph ure of the ink aph .
for ple , a ong tor of an sor - see ink een a sor and a ent is the act hat hey tly ate in ral cts .
in ral , the ink aph lly cts mon rns of ons een the ies in the ain .
ing ese rns nto ion uld low us to ide a uch ter ion for nks .
in his per , we kle his lem ing the nal kov ork ( rmn ) ame - ork of kar et al .
we use his ork to ene a gle tic del ver the ire ink aph , ing oth ect els ( hen ant ) and nks een
cts .
the del ers are ned ely , to ize the ity of the ( ect and ) ink els ven the own tes ( e . g . , the rds on the age , hy - nks ) .
the ned del is hen ied , ing tic nce , to ict and ify nks ing any ved tes and nks .
123 ink ion a nal ain is bed by a nal ema , ich ies a set of ect pes and tes for hem .
in our web ple , we ave a age ype , ere ach age has a ary - ued ute for ach ord in the ary , ing her the age ins the ord .
it lso has an ute ing the ass of the age , e . g . , a ors age , a nts age , etc .
to ess the ink ion lem , we eed to ake nks rst - ass ens in our del .
ing ( 123 ) , we uce nto our ema ect pes hat ond to nks een ies .
ach ink ect is ted ith a ple of ity cts ( 23; : : : ; ok ) hat ate in the ink .
for ple , a ink ink ect uld be ted ith a air of ies the ing age , and the ked - to age , ich are art of the ink ion .
we ote hat ink cts may lso ave her es; e . g . , a ink ect ght ave tes for the hor rds on the ink .
as our oal is to ict ink nce , we ust der nks hat ist and nks hat do not .
we ore der a set of ial nks een ies .
ach ial ink is ted ith a ple of ity cts , but it may or may not lly ist .
we ote his ent ing a ary nce ute sts , ich is rue if the ink een the ted ies sts and lse ise .
in our ple , our del may ain a ial ink for ach air of ges , and the lue of the ble : sts nes her the ink lly sts or not .
the ink ion ask now ces to the lem of ing the nce tes of ese ink cts .
an ion i ies the set of ies of ach ity ype and the ues of all tes for all of the ies .
for ple , an ion of the ext ema is a ion of ges , ing eir els , the rds hey ain , and ich nks een hem ist .
a ial ion ies the set of cts , and ues for ome of the tes .
in the ink ion ask , we ght rve all of the tes for all of the cts , ept for the nce tes for the nks .
our oal is to ict ese ter tes ven the est .
123 nal kov rks we gin ith a ief iew of the ork of ted cal els or kov rks ( 123 ) , and eir ion to nal ins ted in ( 123 ) .
let v ote a set of ete dom les and v an ent of ues to v .
a kov ork for v nes a int ion ver v .
it sts of an ted ncy aph , and a set of ers ted ith the aph .
for a aph g , a que c is a set of des vc in g , not ily mal , uch hat ach vi; vj 123 vc are ted by an dge in g .
ach que c is ted ith a que ial ( cid : 123 ) c ( vc ) , ich is a non - ive ion ned on the int ain of vc .
ing c ( g ) be the set of ues , the kov ork nes the ion p ( v ) = 123 z 23c ( g ) ( cid : 123 ) c ( vc ) , ere z is the ard ing ion ion .
a nal kov ork ( rmn ) ( 123 ) ies the ues and als een tes of ted ies at a ate vel , so a gle del des a ent tri - ion for any ion of ces rom the ema .
mns ify the ues ing the ion of a nal que ate , ich ify les of les in the ion ing a nal ery age .
( see ( 123 ) for ils . )
for ple , if we ant to ene ues een the ass els of ked ges , we ght ene a que ate hat ies to all irs 123 , 123 and ink of pes
age , age and ink , ely , uch hat ink nts rom 123 to 123
we hen ene a ial ate hat ill be sed for all irs of les ory and ory for uch 123 and 123
ven a lar ion i of the ema , the rmn m ces an led kov ork ver the tes of ies in i , in the ous way .
the ues in the led ork are ned by the que tes c .
we ave one que for ach c 123 c ( i ) , and all of ese ues are ted ith the ame que ial ( cid : 123 ) c .
kar et al .
how how the ers of an rmn ver a x ed set of que tes can be ned rom ata .
in his ase , the ing ata is a gle ion i , ere the ame ers are sed ple mes nce for ach ent ity hat ses a ure .
a ice of que ial ers w ies a lar rmn , ich ces a ity ion pw ver the led kov ork .
ent ent ver w is sed to ize the nal ood of the get ari - les ven the ved les in the ing set .
the ent ves a erm ich is the ior ity of the get les ven the ved , ose ion res hat we run tic nce ver the ire led kov ork .
in nal ins , his ork is lly rge and ely ted , ing act nce ble .
kar et al .
ore ose the use of ief ion ( 123 , 123 ) .
123 aph tes in a ink aph
the ure of ink phs has een ely sed to fer nce of nts in tic ons ( 123 ) and ext ( ank ( 123 ) , ubs and ies ( 123 ) ) .
ial rks ave een ely zed in eir own ght in der to ify nds in ial ons ( 123 ) .
ink aph ure has lso een sed to ove ent ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in our nts , we und hat the ion of a nal age ith a rob - tic cal del des a ery ble ork for ing lex rns mon in nal phs .
rst , as ved by oor et al .
( 123 ) , ere are ten cor - ons een the tes of ies and the ons in ich hey ate .
for ple , in a ial ork , ple ith the ame bby are ore ely to be nds .
we can lso oit ons een the els of ies and the ion ype .
for ple , nly nts can be ing nts in a rse .
we can ily ure uch ons by ing ues hat lve ese tes .
tly , ese ues are ive ven hen tes are not ved in the est ata .
for ple , if we ave nce ing an sor - see hip , our ity hat x is a lty ber ses , and eby our ief hat x tes in a ing ant ink ith ome ity z ses .
we lso und it ful to der her aph tes ver the ink aph .
one ful ype of ate is a ity ate , ere cts hat are a ain aph - sed rty are ore ely to ave the ame bel .
der , for ple , a sor x and two her ies y and z .
if xs age ons y and z in the ame ext , it is ely hat the x - y ion and the y - z ion are of the ame pe; for ple , if y is sor xs see , hen bly so is z .
our ork tes ese rns ily , by ing ise ues een the ate ion les .
her ful ype of aph ate ves ity rns , ere the res - nce of an a - b ink and of a b - c ink ses ( or ses ) the ood of an a - c ink .
for ple , nts ten ist in ses ght by eir sor .
ote hat his ype of ion not be ted for ust ing ise ues .
by ing ues ver les of ons , we can ure uch rns as ell .
we can ate ven ore ted rns , but of rse we are ted by the ity of ief ion to ale up as we uce ger ues and ter ops in the kov ork .
we ote hat our ity to del ese ore lex aph rns ies on our use
ion & iad
ure 123 : ( a ) ion ion ith ity els ven .
nal els on age med ter han the ine lat del .
( b ) ity bel ion .
nal del igh med tly ter .
( c ) ion ion out ity els .
nal els med ter ost of the ime , ven ugh ere are ols hat ome els med rse .
of an ted kov ork as our tic del .
in ast , the ach of oor et al .
ses ted cal els ( ian rks and rms ( 123 ) ) to pre - ent a tic del of oth ons and tes .
eir ach ily res the nce of ink nce on tes of ies .
but the int hat the rob - tic ncy aph be a ted lic aph kes it ard to see how we uld ent the aph rns bed ove .
for ple , for the ity ern , we ght der ply ing the ion ges een ink nce les ily .
ver , it is not ear how we uld hen ize a ink nce ari - ble for a ink hat is lve in ple les .
see ( 123 ) for her ion .
123 nts on web ata
we ted and lly led a new nal set red by bkb ( 123 ) .
our set sts of ter nce ent ges rom 123 ols : ord , ley , and mit .
a tal of 123 of ges are led nto one of ght ies : lty , ent , rch ist , aff , rch oup , rch ect , rse and ion ( ion ers to any rge ity hat is not a rch oup ) .
ned ges , ich are ned by an ity but are not the ain age for hat ity , ere lly ned to hat ity .
the age ion of ses oss ols is : ion ( 23% ) , ent ( 23% ) , rch oup ( 23% ) , lty ( 23% ) , rse ( 23% ) , rch ect ( 23% ) , rch ist ( 23% ) , and aff ( 23% ) .
we hed a set of ate nks een ies sed on nce of a ion een hem .
one ype of nce for a ion is a ink rom an ity age or one of its ned ges to the age of her ity .
a ond ype of nce is a ual ink : we ned a ber of ses to ach age ing the age tle , the hor ext of ing nks , and ail ses of the ity ved .
ing an ias of a age on her age tes a ual ink .
the ing set of 123 ate nks ere led as ing to one of ve ion pes sor ( lty , ent ) , mem - ber ( rch oup / ect , ent / lty / rch ist ) , ach ( lty / rch sci - ist / aff , rse ) , ta ( ent , rse ) , art - of ( rch oup , rch roj ) or one , ing hat the ink oes not ond to any of ese ons .
the ved tes for ach age are the rds on the age elf and the eta - rds on the age the rds in the tle , ion ngs , ors to the age rom her ges .
for nks , the ved tes are the hor ext , ext ust ore the ink ( ink or ual ink ) , and the ing of the ion in ich the ink ars .
our ask is to ict the ion ype , if any , for all the ate nks .
we ied two ngs for our nts : ith age ies ved ( in the est ata ) and age ies ved .
for all our nts , we ned on two ols and ted on
the ing ool .
ved ity els .
we rst ent lts for the ing ith ved age cat - ies .
ven the age els , we can ule out any ble ns; the ing bel own ong the ate nks is : one ( 23% ) , ber ( 23% ) , art - of ( 23% ) , sor ( 23% ) , ach ( 23% ) , ta ( 23% ) .
ere is a uge nge of ble els hat one can ply to his ask .
we ted a
set of els hat we elt ted ome nge of rns hat ted in the ata .
ink - lat is our ine del , ing nks one at a ime ing ial lo - tic ion .
his is a ong ier , and its nce is ive ith her ers ( e . g . , ort tor nes ) .
the res sed by his del are the els of the two ked ges and the rds on the nks ing rom one age and its ned ges to the her age .
the ber of res is und 123
the nal els try to ove pon the ine del by ing the rac - ons een ons and ing ons tly .
the ion del ces ues ver ons ose nks ear ely in a ion on a age .
his del ies to ure the ern hat rly ted ies ( e . g . , ees , ers of cts ) are ten ted her on a age .
his ern is a ype of ity ate , as bed in ion 123
the iad del is a ype of ity ate , as sed in ion 123
lly , we uce ues ver ets of ree ate nks hat orm a gle in the ink aph .
the ion + iad del des the ues of the two els ove .
as own in fig .
123 ( a ) , oth the ion and iad els orm the at del , and the ned del has an age acy ain of 123 : 23% , or 123 : 23% ive ion in ror .
as we nly ave ree uns ( one for ach ool ) , we not lly yze the cal nce of his ent .
as an ple of the ing ces ade by the els , we und a ent - sor air hat was ied by the lat del as one ( ere is nly a gle ink rom the nts age to the ors ) but tly ied by oth the sec - ion and iad els .
the ion del zes a aph on the nts age ing his rch , ith a ion of nks to his rch ups and the ink to his sor .
ing the ers of the ion del que , we und hat the del ned hat it is ely for ple to ion eir rch ups and ors in the ame ion .
by ing his end , the ion del is ble to ase the nce of the ent - sor ion .
the iad del cts the ame ion in a ent way .
ing the ame ple , the iad del kes use of the ion hat oth the ent and the her ong to the ame rch oup , and the ent aed a ass ght by his sor .
it is ant to ote hat one of the her ons are ved in the est ata , but her the del aps its ces .
ved ity els .
hen the els of ges are not own ing ons ion , we not ule out ble ons for ate nks sed on the els of ing ies .
hus , we ave any ore ate nks hat do not ond to any of our ion pes ( e . g . , nks een an ion and a ent ) .
his kes the nce of ons a ery low ity ent , ith the ing own ong the ial ons : one ( 23% ) , ber ( 23% ) , art - of ( 23% ) , sor ( 23% ) , ach ( 23% ) , ta ( 23% ) .
in ion , hen we uct a kov ork in ich age els are not ved , the ork is uch ger and ser , ing the ( ate ) nce ask uch der .
hus , in ion to els hat try to ict age ity and ion els sly , we lso ied a two - ase ach , ere we rst ict age ies , and hen use the ted els as res for the del hat cts ons .
for ing age ies , we red two els .
ity - lat del is lti - ial tic ion hat ses rds and eta - rds rom the age and its ned ges in ate ags of rds .
the ber of res is hly 23; 123
the igh - ors del is a nal del hat its her ype of ity ate : ges
23% ( cid : 123 ) ved
23% ( cid : 123 ) ved
fg lm bc ss
ure 123 : ( a ) age ion / all ven int for 23% , 23% , 23% ved nks .
age ion / all ven int for ach old of ool ces at 23% ved nks .
ith lar rls ten ong to the ame ory or tly ked ies ( rch oup / ect , sor / rse ) .
for ach age , two ges ith rls est in dit dis - nce are ted as ors , and we ced ise ues een bor - ing ges .
123 ( b ) ows hat the ors del rly rms the lat del oss all ols , by an age of 123 : 23% acy ain .
ven the age ies , we can now ply the ent els for ink ica - ion .
hus , the sed ( lat / lat ) del ses the ity - lat del to ify the age els , and hen the ink - lat del to ify the ate nks ing the ing en - ity els .
the sed ( ors / lat ) del ses the ors del to ify the ity els , and hen the ink - lat del to ify the nks .
the sed ( igh - ors / ion ) del ses the ors to ify the ity els and hen the ion del to ify the nks .
we lso ied two els hat ict age and ion els sly .
the int + ors del is ply the ion of the ors del for age ies and the lat del for ion els ven the age ies .
the int + ors + ion del lly ces the ues hat red in the ion del een nks hat ear ely in a ion on a age .
we ain the int els to ict oth age and ion els sly .
as the ion of the one ion is so rge , we use the ity of one to ene a ion - all rve .
if his ity is ess han ome old , we ict the ost ely bel ( her han one ) , ise we ict the ost ely bel ( lud - ing one ) .
as ual , we ort lts at the ion - all ven int on the est ata .
123 ( c ) how the ven nts ved by the ent els on the ree ols .
nal els , oth sed and int , did ter han at els on the av - age .
ver , nce ies rom ool to ool and for oth int and sed els , nce on one of the ols is rse han hat of the at del .
123 nts on ial ork ata
the ond set we sed has een ted by a tal ite at a rge ity hat sts an ine ity for nts ( 123 ) .
ong her ces , it ows nts to ter ion out ves , ate sts of eir nds and wse the ial net - ork .
nal ion des nce , der , jor and ear , as ell as ite rts , sic , oks , ial ies , etc .
we sed on the ask of ing the end - hip nks een nts rom eir nal ion and a set of eir nks .
we ted nts ing in een ent ces or rms and ted the ata to the hip nks nly hin ach nce , ing ter - nce nks rom the ata to ate ent ing / est its .
ach nce has out 123 nts and an age ent sts out 23% of his or her use - tes as nds .
we sed an ght - old ain - est lit , ere we ned on een ces and ted on two .
ing nks een two nts rom ust nal ion one is a
ery ult ask , so we ied a ore tic ing , ere ome ion of the nks is ved in the est ata , and can be sed as nce for ing the ing nks .
we sed the ing ons of ved nks in the est ata : 23% , 23% , and 23% .
the ved nks ere ted at dom , and the lts we ort are ged ver ve lds of ese dom ion als .
ing ust the ved ion of nks , we ted the ing at res : for ach ent , the ion of nts in the nce hat ist him / her and the ion of nts he / she ts; for ach air of nts , the ion of her nts hey ave as mon nds .
the ues of the ons ere zed nto our ins .
ese res ure ome of the nal ure and ies een nks : nts who ist ( or are ted by ) any nds in the ved ion of the nks end to ave nks in the ved ion as ell .
ore tly , ing nds in mon ses the ood of a ink een a air of nts .
the lat del ses tic ion ith the ove res as ell as nal ion out ach ser .
in ion to ual ics of the two ple , we lso ced a ure for ach tch of a tic , for ple , oth ple are ter nce ors or oth are men .
the ity del ses a ype of ity ate , ing ues be - een ach air of nks ing rom ach son .
rly to the lat del , ese ues ude a ure for ach tch of the ics of the two ial nds .
his del res the ncy of a son to ave nds who are any ter - ics ( ven ugh the son ght not ess hem ) .
for ple , a ent may be nds ith ral cs ors , ven ugh he is not a cs jor elf .
we lso ied els hat sed ity tes , but the ate nce ith 123 - ues ten led to rge or ced tic lts .
123 ( a ) res the age ion / all int ved by the ent els at the ree ent ngs of ved nks .
123 ( b ) ows the nce on ach of the ght lds ing two ces ach .
ing a red t - est , the com - ity del rms lat ith p - ues 123 : 123 , 123 : 123 and 123 : 123 ely .
123 ion and ons in his per , we der the lem of ink ion in nal ins .
we cus on the ask of ive ink ion , ere we are sly ing to ict and ify an ire set of nks in a ink aph .
we how hat the use of a tic del ver ink phs ows us to ent and oit ing aph rns in the ink aph .
lly , we ave und two pes of rns hat eem to be ial in ral ces .
ity tes ate the ion of nks or cts hat are a ain aph - sed rty ( e . g . , nks hat are a mon int ) .
ity tes ate les of cts and nks zed in a gle .
we how hat the use of ese rns tly ove the ion acy ver at els .
nal kov rks are not the nly hod one ght der ing to the ink ion and ion ask .
we uld , for ple , ild a ink tor hat ers her nks in the aph by ing aph res nto at res ( 123 ) , as we did in the ial ork ata .
as our nts how , ven ith ese res , the ive ion ach ork ter .
her ach is to use nal ers uch as nts of ive gic ing ( 123 ) .
lly , ver , ese ods ave een ied to the lem of ing or ing a gle ink at a ime .
it is not ear how ell hey uld end to the ask of sly ing an ire ink aph .
lly , we uld ply the ted prm ork of ( 123 ) .
ver , as own in ( 123 ) , the ely ned mns orm tly ter han ely ned rms ven on the ler ity ion ask .
ore , as we sed , the prm ork not ent ( in any ral way ) the ype of aph rns hat eem ent in ink aph ata .
ore , the rmn ork ems uch ore
ate for his ask .
ugh the rmn ork ked rly ell on his ask , ere is ant oom for ent .
one of the key ems ing the ity of ach is the nce on ief ion , ich ten oes not rge in ore lex ems .
his lem is lly ute in the ink ion lem , ere the nce of all ial nks ads to ely ted kov rks ith any ort ops .
his lem can be sed ith ics hat cus the rch on nks hat are ble ( as we did in a ery ple way in the age nts ) .
a ore ing ion uld be to lop a ore ted ate nce / ing thm .
our lts use a set of nal rns hat we ave red to be ful in the ins hat we ave red .
ver , any her ich and ing rns are ble .
hus , in the nal ing , ven ore so han in ler sks , the sue of ure ion is cal .
it is ore ant to ore the lem of tic ure ion , as in ( 123 ) .
lly , we eve hat the lem of ing ink phs has ous her ap - ons , ing : ing ies of ple and cal ure of rga - ons , ing ple or cts hat lay ain key les , ing ent and ure ons , and ore .
nts .
his ork was ted by onr act 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 der pas eld ram .
eel was ted by a bel rad .
hip .
