“Lis-s-sy, Li-i-i-iss-y… ” Lissy rolled over in her sleep. The voice hovered in the dark, repeated over and over in a singsong tone, piercing Lissy’s subconsciousness. She shivered and pulled the blanket over her head. “Li-i-issy—I miss you… ” “Wake up!” It shouted in her mind. She was cold. She burrowed deeper under the covers. Mary Beth was looking at her, smiling—then she was gone. There were sounds—muffled laughter mixed with little voices, many voices, jumbled. The doll house appeared. A soft glow shone from the windows. The door opened, rosy fog began drifting towards her, soft tendrils reaching, reaching…

She fought to sit up but the blankets were wrapped around her, holding her prisoner. Let go, let go! She was thrashing, finally managed to push the blanket away and sit up. Her eyes went immediately to the doll house in the corner. It was dark, just like always. Her face was wet and she was shaking. The same dream—no, nightmare—again.

Lissy Roberts and Mary Beth Staley were cousins and best friends—practically inseparable since birth. Their mothers were twins and after a double wedding both had gotten pregnant, giving birth to their daughters on the very same day. The girls looked enough alike to be twins themselves and shared a special bond. They formed a pact when they were eight years old—vowed never to be parted.

Right before the girls’ tenth birthday, Joe and Bethany Staley were roaming through an antique shop, one of their favorite pastimes, when they found the perfect gift. “Joe! Look at this little house. Wouldn’t Mary Beth love this?” Her husband came to her side and instantly agreed.

“It’s great! Both the girls will love it. They do everything together anyway—it can be their job to fix it up the way they want. We’ll clean it, they can do the rest. Good job, Bet.”

When the doll house was presented to Mary Beth, it instantly became her most cherished possession. “Look, Lissy—it’s got three floors. We can store stuff in the little attic, like more clothes and things. There’s a mom, a dad and four girls. We can pretend they’re our sisters.” The small wooden figures were intricately hand carved, every feature distinct, right down to their fingernails.

It wasn’t long before the girls discovered the doll’s clothes were removable. “Wow. We can change their outfits. Mary Beth, look at their eyes. Now move away. Doesn’t it look like they’re watching us? And there’s little light bulbs inside. Let’s ask your dad to fix the cord so we can plug it in. Then we can turn the lights on for them. The cord looks sort of dangerous with all the stuff coming off it. Looks like they wrapped thread or something around it—it’s coming apart.”

Before long the little house looked like new. It sat in Mary Beth’s bedroom in the middle of her large dresser. The girls spent long hours with it, even preferring the company of their ‘sisters’ to going places with their parents.

One Saturday morning Mary Beth’s parents decided to take the girls to the zoo. Bet knocked softly on her daughter’s door, opened it and went inside. She found her sitting in front of the little house, just staring inside. She looked sleepy.

“Honey are you all right?” Mary Beth nodded. “I’m okay. I had sort of a bad dream last night and then I couldn’t go back to sleep for a while. I guess I’m tired.”

“We were thinking of having a family day at the zoo. We can pick up Lissy, and maybe Aunt Liz and Uncle Max would like to go. How does that sound?”

“I don’t feel like it, mom. ‘sides, Lissy can’t go—she’s coming over today and we’re going to clean the little house. It’s sort of dirty, or dusty.” Her mother didn’t say anything for a moment. “Mary Beth, is something wrong? You girls spend an awfully lot of time up here. The doll house isn’t going to go away. You don’t have to spend every minute…” Mary Beth stood up and whirled around to face her mother. She clenched her fists.

“Mom! I don’t want to go! And Lissy won’t go either. There’s nothing wrong with me. I just like to be with the doll house. Go away and leave me alone!” She turned back, sat down and resumed staring inside the little building.

Mary Beth began to change after that. Dark circles formed beneath her eyes and she would turn sullen, snap at Lissy. One day when Lissy called, her aunt said that Mary Beth didn’t feel well. “Lissy, you can come over if you’d like. I’m not sure what’s wrong. You girls are so close—did she ever say anything to you about hearing voices at night? She hasn’t been sleeping well and she’s losing weight. If this continues, she’s going to the doctor’s. Has she told you anything at all?”

“No Aunt Bet—well, she did say something about hearing her name sometimes in the night. I think it kinda scared her. I guess I sorta said she was imagining things, because she never said it again. D’ya think she’s really sick?”

“I don’t know, Lissy. Do you want to talk to her? She was sleeping last time I looked, but I’ll see if she’s awake.”

“Oh, that’s okay. But—would you tell her I called and hope she feels better?”

“Sure, honey. You know you can come over anytime—seeing you always makes her happy.” She hung up.

That was the night Mary Beth disappeared. An open bedroom window at first seemed to be the work of an intruder. Her picture appeared on milk cartons, posters were hung throughout the small town with her smiling face and a reward was offered for information as to her fate. As time passed and no trace of her was found, the talk turned her into a runaway.

“The story I was told when I got the little house was that it belonged to a guy who lost his family. It started out to be a gift for his girls—a miniature of the house they lived in. He worked on the little building every night in his basement after his wife and daughters went to bed. He used wood he’d kept from a barn after it burned. Funny thing, that fire.” The antique dealer paused, remembering. He was looking into the faces of two grieving people, standing in front of him, reaching out for anything that would help them cope with the loss of their only child. He continued.

“What I heard was—the barn was there when he bought the place but it looked new. Nobody ever knew why it caught fire. It had one big room—he used half for storage, the other half as a workshop. It was close to the edge of a small stand of trees at the back of the property. It was the house that was in bad shape—it had been built in the mid-1800s and was practically falling down. Fifty years can take a toll on a house." He stopped, looked down, remembering. After a few moments of reflective silence, he again spoke.

“Seems like his family disappeared. He told some weird story that nobody ever believed. People just thought his wife took the kids and left. Or maybe that’s what they wanted to believe. Anyway, he finished the little house—said it was a tribute to his family. He was sort of obsessed with it—would hold the carvings in his hands and sit for hours, mumbling to himself. Lived there quite a while alone.

“Somebody from the town—they lived out in the country—went by one day and no one was around. He was gone, too. Maybe he found his family and went after them. Years went by before somebody finally cleaned out the home. I got it as part of a store I bought out that was going out of business—place where they sold used stuff. The old guy that owned the place told me the story about the little house. Seems like he did sell it to a couple he knew for their daughter, but they brought it back. Some sort of problem. That's all he said. Lots of people looked at it but until you folks came along, nobody even made me an offer. Nice piece. Good workmanship. I figure it was built around the early 1900s.

“Sorry about your little girl. Maybe she just ran away and she’ll come back.”

The Staleys turned to leave, then paused. “What was the weird story he told that no one believed?” The antique dealer shrugged. “Oh, I’m not sure. I really can’t remember. But…did you ever notice a light…” He stopped. “Well, good luck to you both. Maybe you know somebody that would like the little house. I really don’t want it back.”

They left the shop. The doll house remained covered in Mary Beth’s room, no one touched it. Until the day Joe and Bethany decided to give it to their niece. The story the antique dealer told was dismissed as just another strange tale, maybe even of someone’s madness. The father needed a way to cope. People deal with losses in their own way. The little house was just a wooden building with wooden carvings—maybe it helped him deal with his loss. Lissy would enjoy having it. Maybe it would help her deal with hers.

It took them a year. They finally gave Lissy the doll house.

“Mary Beth always said this was as much yours as it was hers. I know she’d want you to have it. We put off giving it to you, hoping … When I think back now, it all seems strange. The day before it happened she said again that it belonged to both of you, almost like … ” Tears welled in her aunt’s eyes. With a sad little smile, she turned and walked away.

The little house sat on a table in the corner of Lissy’s bedroom for months before she could bring herself to touch it. Whenever she looked at it, she would picture Mary Beth, remember all they had done together and her heart would ache. The rooms began to look dull, colors dimmed by undisturbed dust time had collected. Lissy knew she should care for it—Mary Beth never allowed it to look shabby. She had even given the small family names and talked to them, as if they could hear her. The guilt Lissy felt at not tending to the house would be forgotten, as sadness overwhelmed her. One day, ‘DUST ME’ appeared on the tabletop. She ran her hand over the roof of the house and resolved to clean it that evening.

After school, she pulled pins out of concealed hinges and removed the entire front side of the small building. Next, out came the wooden carvings and all the furniture from each floor. Their clothes seemed rumpled, almost as if they’d been slept in. Very carefully, she unhooked the snaps, removed each garment and rinsed it in a pan of water. One word flashed into her mind: “cold”. The room wasn’t cold, but she shivered. She gathered up the wooden family and wrapped them in a towel. Then came the furniture, to be dusted and polished. All that remained was the miniature attic. A rack, with extra sets of clothes, a rocker and a small trunk came out. When she reached in to wipe the floor, she discovered something else tucked in a corner, practically out of sight. A cot. With a small wooden figure lying on it. Lissy didn’t remember seeing it before and lifted it out, examining it. This figure, as with all the others, was intricately carved, with the most expressive eyes, somehow familiar, that seemed to be staring up at her. Mary Beth’s face came into her mind. Maybe she had added this and forgot to mention it. Lissy removed the figure from the cot and cleaned it. By the time she finished, everything shone, including the table. The family was back in place and Lissy turned off the lights.

That night, they spoke. At first she thought she was having the same dream again, but as she came out of sleep and looked around the room she heard it—whispering, faint—more a thought than a sound. This time, she knew she was awake. Lissy slipped back down under the covers, listening, her eyes wide. The room was quiet. She finally fell asleep. It happened again a week later. This time the voices were slightly louder. She strained to hear, wondering if it was only the wind. When she looked out her window, everything was still. The moon cast light into her bedroom, its pale whiteness partially illuminating pictures, her clown collection, the dresser with its brushes, jars and small red bottles—all looked normal. One corner remained shrouded in darkness. The light seemed to stop at the edge of the table that held the doll house. She hummed to herself, finally drifted into sleep.

“Lhih-s-s-y. Miss-s-s you. Co-o-me.” A hint of sound, almost-words, not quite defined. Lissy held her breath. Was it the wind? She sat up in bed and coldness, like a blanket made of frost, wrapped around her. It left the feeling of an ice cube being rubbed all over her skin, raising goose bumps. Her eyes were drawn to the house in the corner. The windows seemed to shine with a soft, rosy glow. The glow didn’t penetrate outside. No light seemed to show except inside the small building. A mixture of fear and curiosity, Lissy swung her legs to the floor and sat, staring at the sight.

“Lii-i-i-iss … Lissy-y-y-y.” Her name hovered, trailed into silence. She sank to the floor in front of the house and knelt, looking through the windows. Something seemed out of place. She stared inside, squinting, concentrating—her eyes seemed to play tricks—was there a movement? Then she realized what was wrong. The cot that held the new little wooden figure—it was empty. Where had she put it? Lissy reached for the light switch. A small shock went through her when she touched it and she yanked her hand away. She knelt a few moments longer, looking—then decided morning would be soon enough to investigate. Back in her bed, she pulled the blankets up to her chin. She glanced once more at the corner table. It was dark.

“Mother, do you remember when Aunt Bet said Mary Beth heard her name in the night? I thought I heard mine last night. The doll house looked funny, like a light was on or something. And there was a new doll—a girl on a cot—she’s wasn’t there. I know I put her back when I cleaned. Did you take her out?”

“Of course not. You know I never interfere with your doll house—never have. Are you sure you weren’t dreaming? Did you look again this morning?”

“No. I came right downstairs. I’ll go see.” Lissy ran up the stairs and entered her room. The doll house looked exactly as it always had. When she looked inside, everything was normal—even the figure on the cot. She was back. It couldn’t have been a dream—she remembered getting up and kneeling in front of the building. Didn’t she?

Seven more days. Seven more nights. On the seventh night, she woke again to the sound of her name being called. This time, it was different.

“Li-i-i-isy—I need you. Together—forever.” The tone was musical, almost hypnotic. Lissy swam up from the depths of sleep to the pull of the voice. She rolled over and looked at the doll house. It was glowing. And this time, as in her dream, the glow reached out from the front of the house. It seemed to be moving toward her. She bolted upright and watched in terror.

“Mom! Mother! Come in here. Quick! Hurry!” A light went on, the sound of footsteps pounded down the hall, her bedroom door opened and her mother came to her side.

“Lissy! It’s all right! You’re having a bad dream.” She was holding her, stroking her hair.

“No—Mom! Look!” Lissy clutched her mother and pointed at the corner. It was dark, the only light in the room coming from the hallway. “Mom, I saw it! I really did! Something was coming out of it. It scared me!”

“No honey, you were dreaming.” Her mother turned on the lamp next to the bed. “Look at the doll house. It’s dark. And it’s a wooden house with a wooden family—there’s nothing that can come out of it. Do you want me to take it downstairs?” Lissy was in her mother’s arms, listening to the soothing voice. Maybe it was all a dream. During her first year of school she had bad dreams. They were so real to her. Her mother convinced her then that nothing about a dream could hurt her—it was just another part of her mind—a part that only worked while she slept. Now, sitting in the lamp lit room, her fears slipped away. She smiled up at her mother, feeling slightly foolish.

“No, I…I guess you’re right. I can’t remember it all that clearly, so it probably wasn’t real. I’m okay. Thanks, Mom. You’re terrific.”

“Go back to sleep, hon. See you in the morning.” Her mother kissed her forehead and started toward the door.

“I love you, Mom.”

“Me too, hon.” The door closed with a gentle click. Lissy turned off the lamp. The corner was dark.

Liz Roberts phoned her sister, Bethany Staley. “Bet, I need to ask you something. When, uh, before Mary Beth…well, disappeared…look, I know this is difficult for you, but something is happening to Lissy. She says she hears voices at night, that there’s some kind of light in the doll house…she’s not eating, looks terrible. If I remember right, didn’t something similar happen with Mary Beth? Didn’t you tell me…”

“Yes Liz. The same thing you’re describing. I kept telling her she was dreaming. Even took her to the doctor’s. There was nothing wrong that he could find. He did say that if it kept up, it wouldn’t hurt to take her to a psychologist, just for an opinion, if nothing else. She…was gone before I had a chance.

“There was one thing…I don’t think I mentioned it to you because at the time, I didn’t think it meant anything. Joe and I went to the antique shop where we found the doll house. The antique dealer related the story he was told when he got the little house. I guess it belonged to a guy that built it for his girls but they all left. The wife supposedly left with their daughters. Then he was gone too. None of them were ever seen again.

“The other thing he said, and he didn’t explain it—the husband told some sort of weird story about what happened. Nobody believed it. I guess he was a little odd. We asked the antique dealer what the story was and he said he couldn’t remember. You don’t think—are you saying this has something to do with the doll house?”

“I don’t know, Bet. I just know something is very wrong. I’d like to talk to the dealer. It probably won’t solve anything in my mind, but…can’t hurt either. I’m really worried about Lissy."

“Now, I’m only repeating what I was told. After your sister and her husband left, I started thinking about it. Well, I actually did remember but it’s too ridiculous to ever believe.” The antique dealer frowned as he looked at her. “Are you sure…”

“Yes! Don’t you understand? Something is happening to my daughter. I don’t care how ridiculous you think it is I need to hear it! Please!”

The antique dealer stared at her for a moment. “Okay, but please don’t take it out of context. Some things are just not possible.

“His name was Fritz Brauer. He had a wife and two daughters. They lived on the outskirts of a small town and mostly kept to themselves. The house they lived in had been empty for a number of years and it was falling apart, from what I was told. Fritz was from Germany—spoke broken English and many of the townspeople believed that if it wasn’t for the fact that he needed building stuff, they would never have even met him. His wife, Elsa, taught their girls what they thought was important and of course they grew most of their own food.” Liz shook her head impatiently.

“I don’t care about that! Please get to the part about why the family left—or whatever it is that you heard.” She was staring up at him intently.

“Okay, okay. There was a barn at the back of their property that burned down. Before it burned, he would go in there and not return to the house for hours. Said he could talk to the people that lived there before them. Before they bought the place, I mean. He carved a lot—little figures, like people. Somebody said they saw sort of a rosy glow back there once. Like a light. Anyway, they had two daughters… "

"Wait!" Liz interrupted. "I think there were four little girl figures in the doll house. Where did the other two come from?"

"I don't know," said the antique dealer. "Maybe whoever had it before added them—who knows? Like I was saying, he wanted more girls. Funny, I thought most people living back then wanted sons, so they could help plant, or whatever they did. Not Fritz—he wanted daughters. So like I said, one day the barn caught fire and burned most of the stuff inside. He pulled down what was still standing and saved a lot of the wood. That’s what he built the doll house from—wood from the barn.

“It was supposed to be a surprise for his girls. But then they all left. He went into town and told the local law that someone took them. They all went out and looked around, but couldn’t find anything. Then he said no, not someone real, but a spirit—came from the barn. Said he used to talk to the spirit back there. I’m not sure if he called it a spirit, but it was something like that.

“After he finished the little house he began carving the figures. One he said was his wife, the others, his daughters. The figures sort of looked like them, from what I hear. Then he got really weird. He would sit in the empty house, holding the little carvings in his closed hands and talk to them. For hours he would do this. Almost like he thought they were real, or he could make them real.

“The last time anyone saw him was in the town. He went in to tell the law that everything was all right. He knew where his family was and he was going to them. They said he looked almost happy.

“A few weeks later somebody went out to the house and it was empty. Said you walked in and it looked like they were all still there. Clothes, dishes, everything—the house was just like it always was. And the little house. Four little carvings inside, all wearing clothes. They were really—exquisite. Lifelike. Well, you know that.

“I don’t know if all this told you anything, Mrs. Roberts. I know what it makes one think, but we both know nothing like that could ever happen.

“Hope you find out what’s wrong with your daughter. Sorry I couldn’t be more help, but I told you it was just a story. Nobody really knows what happened back then."

Dreaming, always dreaming…listening to voices calling, swirls of rosy fog gliding, reaching out. Did she really sleep? Mary Beth was calling…“come, be with me, together, always … ” Lissy’s appetite faded, she picked at her food. Concern showed in her parents’ eyes. Her mother questioned. Was she sleeping? Lissy assured. She was all right. They wanted to move her doll house. No, please don’t, Lissy pleaded. So it stayed. Nothing was wrong. After all, when she woke at night—was fully aware—the corner was always dark. Dark that is, until now.

The welcome mat glowed. Its’ message flashed through pink mist. Lissy watched it blink—on, then off, on, then off—over and over. She was relaxed, her body tingled, seemed to rise—weightless, she floated into the mist. Mary Beth’s face, smiling, drawing her forward—“together, always.” Pleasant warmth enveloped, hands seemed to stroke. The door swung wider and she drifted—closer, closer …

The antique dealer pulled the newspaper out of its wrapping and picked up his morning cup of coffee. He scanned the first section, then went on to the second—local news. The article appeared on the first page. “STRANGE HAPPENINGS SURROUND THE DISAPPEARANCE OF…”

There it was—a photograph of the little house he had sold the Staleys. Seems like another girl was missing, Staley’s niece, after inheriting her cousin’s doll house. The thought crossed the antique dealer’s mind that maybe he should have related the entire story to the Staleys when they came to his store. Might have prevented the second girl… But that was ridiculous—none of it was true. It was too strange to be true. The only place things like that happened was in fiction stories.

Wasn’t it?
