The young actress Muriel Casterton celebrated her stage debut with cast and crew back stage after opening night. The audience’s thunderous applause was still ringing in her ears when the well meaning party host introduced Muriel to another first for the day: Udolpho Wolfe. This became an instant, all consuming, intoxicating and lifelong infatuation. She failed to show up for rehearsals soon after. Her critically acclaimed performances waned under Udolpho’s influence. Family and friends knew about him and her fiancé was aware of her obsession. Idle gossipers blamed Udolpho for a sudden and premature end to the career of a “rising star”.

The infatuated grazier, David Mackay from Seymour, wanted no other. He married Muriel knowing full well that she would not give up Udolpho. The hope, that in time she would tire of him, was soon dashed. She never did entirely, busybodies say. The Dutchman was always at hand.

I gleaned these snippets over the years. Let me tell you what I know.

My Aunt Muriel, it seemed forever and certainly before I left High School, called at our place on Wednesdays. Not on a Tuesday or a Thursday, not on weekends, but on Wednesdays. Wednesday was significant but it wasn’t until many years later that I found out why. She must have been around 35 when the regular visits started. I know this because my mum was her older sister by four years. I once addressed her as Auntie Muriel and was quickly put in my place. Aunt, not Auntie.

Aunt Muriel rang our door bell at 5.50 PM, never earlier, sometimes later when the train was late. The Wednesday afternoon service from Seymour was due at Essendon Station at 5.30 PM. From there, it was only a comfortable five minute walk to our house. She spent 20 minutes somewhere.

I usually answered the door, let her in and she hugged me to her ample bosom. As a young boy I didn’t mind. In my teenage years, feeling the closeness of her breasts first embarrassed me, then excited me, then embarrassed me and once a man, put me off.

Off-putting too, was the smell of peppermint she had about her. That and Eau de Cologne, which I knew from a sneak look in her handbag. The peppermint haze was just bearable in winter. Not so in summer, when peppermint seemed to ooze from her skin. It mingled with cologne and sweat and drove me away.

She made herself comfortable in the front room, in the armchair near the window, where visitors sit. She brought her own teabags, Twinings Earl Grey and I brought her hot water. She ate French Brie with water crackers and peeled an apple with a small ivory handle knife. She lit up a black Sobranie cigarette for afters and made me listen for the umpteenth time to stories of her life in the Thea-ata. She spoke of allnight parties, autograph hunters, stage-door Johnnies and marriage proposals. She knew people I had read about and seen in black and white movies. Did I know that she turned down an invitation to star on Broadway? She had given all that up for a life in the country. Yeah, right.

By the time the family finished their own tea, it was time for me to escort Aunt Muriel to the station to catch the 7.20 PM rattler to Flinders Street. Dad meanwhile had finished his second bottle of VB. “Get me another long-neck, son,” he’d say.

I was twelve maybe when Dad sometimes became so legless that I had to fetch his beer from the garage fridge. I also took away the empties and tasted the dregs before stacking the bottles along the side fence. Sometimes I’d pour him a glass and when he wasn’t looking, this naughty boy took a swig. There was a lot of drinking in my house, especially at weekends. I once tried spirits but didn't like the taste. But a dash of rum with Coca Cola, when I was seventeen, tasted terrific. I enjoyed the second one less.

I remember well the Wednesday, before my graduation. I was in a milk bar when I saw Aunt Muriel on the footpath opposite enter the Ladies Lounge of the Railway Hotel. For once, the train was early. Ten minutes later, she emerged and made for our house. I pretended to be looking for her in the pub. I had just missed her, the barman said. I asked what I should buy her as a surprise birthday present. He pointed out a long square bottle on the top shelf and described what it was and where it came from. Muriel’s favourite drink came with peppermint. That evening, we took the train together to Flinders Street saying I was meeting my girlfriend at the station. I watched her turn the corner into Flinders Lane and followed her. She stopped near the Elizabeth Street corner and entered a basement door. No sign, but men in business suits, men in shabby clothes, old men, young men, well dressed ladies and some not, entered without hesitation. I knew one face, our Postmaster, who averted his gaze. Not so one of my lecturers, who told me to come in or piss off. I withdrew politely, waited and entered the building.

Access to a meeting room was by a single glass panel door. Ten rows of chairs and some 40 people. When no one else arrived, I entered the room and sat in the last row and listened as speaker after speaker addressed the group. Some said only a few words, others spoke for a minute or more. The group as one greeted each speaker. I left when Muriel stood up and walked to the lectern, for I didn't want her to see me. I heard a resounding “Hello Muriel” as I shut the door quietly. What a dreadful place. These poor people who had only themselves to blame.

My job had taken me to Sydney for 10 years with an occasional return to see my parents who had moved from Essendon to Beaumauris. Aunt Muriel found a new Wednesday afternoon stopover at my cousin’s. Muriel came to Marcia’s wedding and drew a crowd of admiring single and married men, who should have known better. She was darling this and darling that, lightly touching men on the arm, hugging those she knew well, twirling a scarf, arranging her locks, laughing and flirting with anything in long pants. She ignored the filthy looks from women married and single and chose not to hear “silly old tart” and “mutton dressed as lamb” snide remarks

She embraced me too - the peppermint scent was still there. Somehow, it smelled fresher and cleaner. She was happy to learn that I was back in Melbourne for good. I wasn’t, for the transfer was an offer I couldn’t refuse.

I found a flat in St. Kilda on Saturday, moved in on Sunday, started work on Monday and fronted up at 7.55 PM at an address in Flinders Lane on Wednesday, a condition of my ongoing employment. The closer I came to my destination, the more familiar it looked. I recognized the basement door, entered the meeting room and sat in the chair nearest the door. I objected to what the banner on the wall told me. The poster prayer meant nothing to me.

The chairman called on volunteers to start proceedings and beckoned the first to raise his hand to share his experience.

“My name is Julian and I’m an alcoholic.” In unison, the audience replied,

“Hello Julian.”

I didn’t hear what else Julian had to say. I am not like him. Or am I ?Apparently, I am an alcoholic in the eyes of my employer. Pig’s arse. Others came to the lectern and the ritual continued. I had nothing in common with any of them.

Muriel rose for her spiel. She gripped the lectern and looked in my direction. A dramatic pause, then:” My name is Muriel.” Pause. “And I am - an alcoholic.”

“Hello Muriel !”

“I haven’t had a drink for eleven years, three months, two weeks and a day,” she confessed. What??? Liar ! Liar! You drunken hypocrite cow! I know you drink Udolpho Wolfe’s Aromatic Schnapps. Holland Gin. The barman at the Essendon Railway Hotel had revealed this to me. Schnapps and pepps. That’s your poison. Gin flavoured with peppermint to mask the stink of your addiction.

She revealed, I suppose more for my benefit than anyone else’s, her first taste of alcohol, schnapps and pepps at the debut party. She spoke of its seductive sweetness, that it felt warm, good, made her giddy and wanting more. She drank and drank to oblivion that night, the first black-out, one of many. She had lost count.

I froze. Last night? You blacked out! I could not account for the bruises on my forearm or anything after the taxi dropped me off at the flat. I had one too many. But only one. How do you know?

I really felt sorry for her when she disclosed an instant addiction, a familial predisposition to alcoholism that ended a promising career and denied her a name in lights. Casual drinking turned unstoppable habit. Udolpho soothed the despair of not being able to stop and helped her forget what she had become. But on sobering up, the feelings of self-loathing and hopelessness overwhelmed her once again- the vicious circle started over. Schnapps and pepps was the crutch that helped her cope with the role of countrywoman away from the footlights. Salvation came, when in desperation, her husband threatened divorce. She came to Alcoholics Anonymous in Melbourne once a week. For a while, bottled courage made it easier to confess her shame to strangers.

“Ha! Ha! Dutch courage from the Railway Hotel to counter Wednesday’s fear.”

Now she drank only sparkling mineral water with a drop of peppermint essence. This was her treat, a nostalgic but safe compensation for the reality that she must never again touch anything stronger. Adieu Udolpho.

As others related their plight and deliverance, I saw parallels with my existence. I might be there next Wednesday and maybe admit to a slight drinking problem, perhaps.

Muriel ended her talk by declaring that AA had saved her health, her sanity and her marriage. Two hours on a Wednesday were sufficient motivation and inspiration to help her through the next seven nights.

Nah, I’m not that far gone. I made it three nights before reaching for my poison. A Bundy and coke or five. But I stopped before the second blackout. Did I?

See you Wednesday, Aunt Muriel.
