THWAAACKK !!!

The fist coming out of nowhere off to his right, connected with his jaw with a dull meaty solidness, snapping his lolling head painfully to his left and jerking his consciousness out of the little safe ball he'd put it however many hours or days ago.

As his head flew around, his eyes subconsciously noted the arc of spittle and blood that spewed from his mouth in droplets of varying size to splash across the belly of another guy standing on his left-hand side.

Years of training did their job, and as he registered the pain on one level, the rest of his senses sprang into automatic overdrive and catalogued the situation.

He was tied to a chair in a dimly lit room.

Wooden chair.

Solid.

But not bolted to the floor - possible opportunity there.

Naked – totally starkers, and no sight of his trousers, shirt, shoes and socks in the room either.

Hemp, or other natural fibre rope. Fairly proficiently tied but not expert. Still, the ropes were biting into his wrists and ankles, and chafed across the skin of his chest.

The guy to his left – Bravo, was a solid looking Asian with mongoloid features, pudgy around the gut. He was wearing a white muscle shirt and Dan could see the ornate tattoos up his arms disappearing onto his chest. He could have christened him “Broken nose” but that would give him human status and this guy was nothing other than a target, meant for as rapid as possible incapacitation or elimination – the latter being preferable given the circumstances.

Alpha, the guy who had punched him, he hadn't seen yet, but he figured he would also feature similar tattoos, as the feel of the hand to his jaw during the punch hadn't felt quite normal, as though the guy was missing some of his fingers.

Yakuza he surmised.

From other sounds, Dan also sensed there was a third guy a little distance behind him. Charlie, as he was designated, could be wearing a suit - an expensive silk suit, or kimono maybe, from the rustling sounds. Dan guessed he was standing just out of splatter-range, probably right at the back of the room given the compact size of most rooms in Japan. He couldn't quite see him with his peripheral vision but what he could see, and from what he could hear and otherwise 'sense', there weren't any others in the room.

As he straightened his head to look back at Alpha, he noticed the door in front, closed of course, and a table behind Alpha up against the wall on that side.

Solid looking wooden table, hard up against the wall. On its surface was a small collection of rough wooden handled knives with various shaped, but mostly small, blades. A short straight skinny one that was probably used as a skinning knife, a stumpy curved one that looked like a cats claw or upside-down scorpion stinger, and a third that looked like a hard-cheese cheese knife that would only be any good if used chisel-like – probably for removing fingers.

Taken on top of the bodyguards fate, his previous 'introductory beating' and deprivation tank session, Dan mentally elevated the urgency and choice of prognosis for his targets – definitely not just incapacitation.

As Dan was completing his survey, Alpha spoke.

“What are you doing here?” he demanded.

After a pause in which Dan did not answer, Alpha stepped in front and followed the question with a sharp punch into his belly.

As the air whooshed out of him and he jerked forward against the ropes, his mind raced through one of his flash-back-memory-slideshows – like a stroboscope going off in his brain.

What indeed was he doing here? Alpha had meant it a completely different way of course, but in the last week, Dan's thinking had been taking a trip down meta-physical pathways, and so, combined with the out-of-body experience of the sensory deprivation tank still clinging to his mental synapses, he visualised the question in a totally different context to what was intended and his mind ran off in a strange direction.

Flash – looking up from underwater through near-death tunnel vision while Chris and Tommy desperately tried to lift the submerged branch off him near their swimming hole at age 6.

Flash – shiny brass and sharply creased uniforms at their Army recruit course passing out parade at age 18.

Flash – the crystallised slow motion view of his shinai bending across his Sensei's helmet for a perfect men point in the shiai that followed immediately after his Kendo nidan grading at age 23.

Flash – the glint of sun off the naked sword blades taking the salute at his cadet officers passing out parade one year later.

Flash – pushing through the black, stinking, body-sucking mud of Auckland's North Shore tidal estuary, every fibre, muscle and lungs straining during the daily morning “mud run” on the SAS training course at age 26.

Flash – the spray of blood and shattered kneecap seen through the scope of his L96A1 sniper rifle in perfect synchronisation with Tom's shot to the other knee of the Taliban target in Afghanistan at age 29.

Flash – Tom's blood burbling through Dan's fingers while trying to block the sucking chest wound two days later.

Flash – tequila bottle.

Flash - …

Flash, … Flash, … Flash …

Dan said nothing.

Then Bravo stepped in with a savage swing to the left side of Dan's jaw. He knew it was coming though, and snatched at the opportunity it offered.

Taking the full brunt and adding some of his own momentum to the force of the blow, he crashed to the floor and rolled, chair and all, towards the table leg against the wall. He aimed the roll perfectly such that the side of the chairs legs and armrest, smashed full into the robustness of the table leg. Since the table was firm against the wall, all the force was focused into the side of the chair, shattering the cross members and seat 'pan' to kindling. Using all his strength and adding some violent pelvic thrusts into the equation, Dan succeeded in smashing his right armrest and a couple of the chair legs free of the seat such that he could move his arm and legs. Rolling around the other side of the table leg, he came up, snatching the collection of knives off the top as he did so.

While it had happened in an instant, Alpha had followed and had reached out his hand to steady himself on the table edge as Dan changed direction underneath it. At the same instant as he snatched up the knives, Dan kept moving forward and suddenly stabbed down hard with the chisel knife, pinning Alpha's hand to the table and wrenching a yelp of pain from him.

Without stopping, his motion flowed into a side-step as he hurled the skinny bladed knife directly at Bravo's head. The hefty weight of the crude wooden handle helped propel the blade cleanly through Bravo's left eyeball, through the eye-socket before stopping two inches into his brain, dropping him instantly in mid stride.

As soon as the knife left his hand, Dan still in fluid motion, had stepped back towards Alpha, who while still pinned to the table, was starting to reach towards the knife to pull it out, however Dan got there first, and with one carefully considered slash of the cats-claw blade, ruptured trachea, larynx and carotid arteries in a spray of blood and gore that painted the table and wall a new colour-scheme.

As he stepped away from the table he pulled out the chisel pinning Alpha's hand and faced Charlie at the back of the room.

Even in the moments he was dealing to Alpha and Bravo, Dan had confirmed his impression that there was only one other person behind the chair, and in the instant Dan faced him, he saw Charlie was indeed wearing a suit. Dan didn't profess to know anything much about suits, but he judged this one to be an expensive, hand tailored one, which he assumed made Charlie an important Yakuza boss.

He was one of the smaller specimens of Japanese men, but he was carefully groomed, and despite having just seen his two henchmen dispatched within a few seconds from a guy who had been securely tied up, he was calm and in full control.

He had already drawn a gleaming tanto out from his belt under his suit jacket, but otherwise he hadn't moved.

While Dan didn't know about suits, he certainly did know about blades, and while he couldn't tell the age, he could tell that the blade was genuine, razor sharp, katana technology, and he could tell that Charlie knew how to use it. He also instantly noticed this tanto was totally different to any other he'd seen. Charlie was holding it with the slight curve held facing down and Dan saw that, unusually, the edge was on the inside of the curve. That would mean a different fighting style, probably more slicing at the limbs and neck – the small diameter parts of the body, although he could see that the 'back' of the blade was also edged approximately one third of the forward length such that it could still be used for stabbing and slicing out from the stab.

Dan didn't intend to let him do any of that though.

They sized each other up across the room. Since there was no immediate rush on Charlie’s part to come to the fight, Dan took the opportunity to make himself fully mobile and functional.

Without taking his eyes off Charlie for an instant, he quickly but deliberately, cut the remnants of the chair from his chest and remaining limbs. In the process of kneeling down to free his left leg, he also scooped up one of the shattered chair legs.

Dan knew all about the art of improvised weapons. The SAS had frequently trained to kill with all sorts of everyday objects. When Life handed Dan a lemon, he would instantly clutch it in his left hand with the stem part against his palm and the pointy end facing out, then with a rapidly sweeping cross-body blow, stab it firmly into Life's nearest eyeball. A fraction of a second after the strike, he would pluck it out and as he or she recoiled, opening their mouth to scream, he would jam the lemon down their throat, smacking it further in with a blow from his right hand, and finish off riding their body down to the floor, with his hands pressing into their throat. Thumbs crushing shut the trachea, fingers closing off the carotid arteries, he would choke the life out of them as their heels drummed helplessly against the ground.

Charlie however, seemed to know his way around the martial arts scene too. He was standing in a relaxed looking pose with the tanto held in a one-handed kendo chudan, or 'middle guard' position, his feet spread shoulder width apart, right foot forward towards Dan. From here Dan knew he could equally attack or defend as required, regardless of the different aspect this particular 'knife' would cause.

Dan faced him in a half crouch, with the chair leg in his left hand, and both the chisel-knife and the cats-claw knife in his right, amid the wreckage of the shattered chair.

For what seemed like an age but in reality was a handful of seconds, they faced each other in the ki battle that always precedes the clash of trained martial masters. Dan could feel that Charlie had strong ki and to his partly trained eye, Dan knew he was well versed in the Japanese martial arts.

But Dan didn't fight in the traditional Japanese manner when it came down to kill or be killed situations. In an instant he drew back his arm and let fly with the chisel-knife full force at the centre of Charlie's chest. As the knife left his fingers, he sprang forward and with a feinting step to his right, brought the stick up and down to his left to knock the tanto out of Charlie's hand, or at least to knock his hand out of the way. Charlie had parried the thrown knife with his tanto and took the chair leg blow on his wrist, but his hand, still clutching the tanto, was forced down and off to his right hand side – leaving his front momentarily unguarded.

Instantly Dan jump-stepped back to his left and plunged the cats-claw knife, the blade held sideways, between his ribs and up into his heart. As Dan's body thudded solidly into Charlie's, he knocked him backwards to the floor, the knife handle sticking obscenely out of his chest. He didn't hesitate even then though, before smashing the chair leg viciously down on his head then reversing it and jamming the splintered end through his eye socket into his brain.

First rule of war – try and avoid the fight, but once committed to the fight, crush and destroy utterly, lest you be destroyed yourself. The knife might have done the job by itself, but there was no point taking the risk that it hadn't, when you had extra weapons at your disposal.

The masters of old had all said as much, and Dan believed it as well.

Dan sat heavily on Charlie’s chest for a few seconds, checking for any signs of life. Satisfied, he leapt up, scooping up the tanto as he went, and moved quietly to the door where he listened carefully for any sounds of activity from guards outside.

He was sure there would be guards, but so far at least, they were not coming. They must be used to sounds of violence coming from this room he thought grimly to himself.

Dan quickly returned to the three bodies and starting with Charlie, searched them rapidly. Intel and weapons were the order of the day – standard SAS procedure, and old habits die hard.

Straight off the bat, Charlie yielded a cell-phone – about as good as it gets as a source of info in this line of work. From this, Dan hoped to find names & numbers of associates and a call history. If he was able to make the right contacts, he might even be able to back-track his recent movements from the cell tower triangulation. For now though, he would simply use its camera function, to take photos of their faces and distinguishing tattoo's to make subsequent positive identification.

Finishing his search he found the scabbard of the tanto, but otherwise nothing else of use to him. Quickly taking a couple of snaps of Charlie's face and overall body, he moved on to Bravo, and lastly Alpha, repeating his search and photo taking process but found nothing of any use except the knives he'd used to kill them. There was nothing else of use in the room either. None of the men's clothes would fit him so he would have to stay 'au naturale' a while longer. He could have made a loin-cloth for himself from one of their shirts but he didn't think his modesty was worth the time it would take.

Instead he equipped himself using the rope that had tied him to the chair to make a pseudo webbing belt and harness for his gear – the tanto, the 3 knives, and 3 of the shattered chair fragments that were both hefty and jagged enough to make possible weapons. He figured that unless he got extremely lucky, he was going to have to fight his way out of this place, in which case the more weapons he had available, the better.

Next he ripped off Bravo's muscle-shirt, made a bundle for the cell phone, and tied that onto the rope harness as well. Then as an afterthought, he grabbed the last remaining rag of the shirt and folded it over the rope at his waist making a hanging 'curtain' over his private parts. That would have to do for now!

He took a moment to examine the tanto more carefully. The saya (scabbard) and the koshirae (hand-piece fittings) were well cared for but had the look of age. The saya featured a beautiful black lacquer wood base with inlaid mother of pearl sakura cherry blossom. The tanto itself featured a more elaborate than usual (for a tanto) ito wrap style handle and a small oval mini-tsuba, while the blade was wide, strong and with a beautifully subtle hamon over its approximate 30 centimeter length.

Dan, while not an expert, was an 'enthusiastic amateur' and from his recent 'training' with sensei in the museum of Osaka, estimated the tanto was a genuine antique, probably from the early Edo period in the early 1600's, or maybe even the Showa era from the 1300's. If it was a 'normal' “edge on the outside of the curve”, it would be worth a few thousand dollars he imagined, and this one with the edge on the inside of the curve would probably be even rarer. It would be a shame to mar its perfection by stabbing and cutting, but if came to using it to defend himself, he would have no hesitation in doing so.

He carefully positioned the saya in his rope 'belt' on his left hip, then taking the tanto in his right hand, and one of the chair legs in his left, he readied himself by the door. Despite the edge placement difference, the tanto was still his most effective, and therefore his primary weapon, while the chair legs would give him more reach than any of the other weapons, and would be more suited to block a blade which was one of the more likely weapons he was likely to encounter with the Yakuza, hence this was his secondary weapon.

As he mentally prepared himself by the door, his mind raced back through the week-or-so it had been since his arrival, cataloguing and sifting the events to search for any clues in his memory that might assist what he was going to find out there and help him find the others. Was it sensei, the princess, or his own past that had got him into this position?
