The woods were familiar and yet not familiar. The pathway through them was known to him and yet each new twist and turn led to new discoveries. He knew the lie of the land and yet somehow it seemed alien. Almost as if his knowing was from the past even though he was sure that he’d never been here before. The path meandered between some ivy-clad oaks and past a pair of impressive chestnuts. He stopped to listen and to smell the woodland. There was the sound of a woodpecker banging his head against a tree and the gentle smell of fresh greenery. The path curved to the left and broke into a clearing. He knew this clearing and yet it contained a pair of unusual object, namely a pair of sleek silver Jaguar X6s. Somehow this did not appear bizarre, even though the clearing was in the middle of a wood and served only by a footpath. The cars were parked in a vee shape with the bonnets in a point towards him and the footpath going directly between them. Leaning against the front wings of the car were four men. The two inner men were short, portly and dressed in sleek black trousers and black leather jackets that were tailored in a style reminiscent of the 1960s Italian Mafia. Both had oily black hair and doleful countenances. The outer two men were adorned in wide lapelled grey striped suits of the type favoured by American gangsters in the 1930s. Both wore trilby hats, hard faces and sallow complexions. The men each side were so alike they looked like a mirror images, but that was impossible. Unperturbed he wandered forward towards them. There was no fear, but no recognition either. When he was close-up to the cars one of the Mafia look-alikes spoke with a rough East-end accent.

“We’ve got a new assignment for you.”

He echoed back the statement in his own BBC English and unregionalised accent with a suitable element of surprise.

“An assignment for me? Is it my last?”

His questions were ignored.

“You are John Browne and you are going to Suffolk to find this man.”

He slapped three photographs onto the shiny silver bonnet and John peered at them. A podgy finger moved over the photographs.

“He won’t try and change his appearance, in any case it would be difficult to hide his odd ears and the missing small toe on his left foot. When this picture was taken he was a happy man, but that is now probably of no consequence.”

John studied the photographs, again somehow knowing he couldn’t touch them.

“Why is he dressed in a purple boiler suit?”

“That doesn’t matter – it is of no relevance to you.”

He slapped a brown paper parcel into John’s hand.

“Passport, driving licence, bank card, wallet with the usual detritus plus keys to your hidey-hole. Rest of the gear is in the van.”

“Van?”

“White Ford, parked at the end of the footpath. Your partner is already inside.”

John gazed absent-mindedly at the parcel.

“What do I do when I find him?”

“You’ll know.”

“I will?”

“You will.”

The Chicago gangster look-alikes suddenly moved and produced a pair of identical cameras. They simultaneously took a picture and John thought that the flash was very bright, in fact extraordinarily bright.

He suddenly realised that he was reading his own passport. John Algernon Browne, thirty-two years old and a water filter salesman by occupation. He had a distinguishing appendectomy scar and was English by birth. His driving licence told him that he lived in Milton Keynes and he could drive any vehicle, including motorbikes, up to seven tonnes in weight as long as they had fixed axles. His bank card told him that he was married, least it was made out to a Mr J and a Mrs M Browne. His wallet contents told him that he was a member of the local video shop, the library and the midnight swimmer’s club. The rest told him little else apart from the knowledge he gleaned from the mixture of receipts; he shopped at Sainsbury’s, bought his petrol from an Esso garage and had recently purchased an electric toothbrush from Boots. He stood up and carefully distributed the documentation in the various pockets of his green fleece jacket and grey casual trousers. He idly inspected his off-white trainers before standing and striding off down the footpath. He had a job to do – an assignment.

The promised van was parked at the end of the footpath in a roughly gravelled car-park. The back contained a couple of cardboard boxes and a pair of soft faded green gym bags. Without thinking he climbed in and looked at his face in the sun-visor mirror. Pointed nose, pale blue eyes, high cheekbones, lie-flat ears and jutting chin. He felt his chin, it was perfectly smooth. He checked his teeth, there were all there. With all in order he turned to look at his companion, who was currently sleeping with her head against the window. Short, perhaps five foot two, so a good head shorter than him. Short wispy blonde hair, prominent ears with a couple of gold earrings in odd places. Wholesome complexion with a pair of fierce black eyebrows and a stubby nose containing one gold ring. Small lips with a red gloss, pale smooth cheeks that could be termed fulsome, but not chubby. Finally there were a pair of protruding eyes that were moving beneath the closed light blue lids. He checked her hands, small and thin, and her legs, also thin. He re-examined her face and touched her on the shoulder. She stretched and gazed at him half vacantly with her deep brown eyes. He turned and put his key into the ignition.

“I’m John.”

She nodded.

“I’m Molly, most people call me Moll.” The accent was pure unadulterated Dorset.

She pointed to the glove box.

“Cash is in there. £200 in twenties,£100 in tens, plus a bag of odd coins.”

“Any mobile phones?”

“No, we won’t need them.”

He nodded and started the engine, it was a diesel. She reached out and tapped a button on the GPS route-finder and a map sprang into view. He noted the left-turn after leaving the car-park and put the car into gear. They were on their way.

They passed Colchester two hours later heading North. By then John had told his personal detail to Molly and she had reciprocated. Mrs Molly Susan Jennifer Bowne nee Martin, aged twenty-six and a telesales operative by trade. She had a tattoo of a frog on her left shoulder blade, otherwise there were no distinguishing marks. She had a driving licence for private cars and lived in Milton Keynes. Had a bank card and a Laura Ashley store card in her married name and a tatty blood donor’s card in her maiden name. She was a member of the local video shop, the library, the midnight swimmer’s club and a sun-tan shop discount club. She’d recently shopped at Sainsbury’s, bought a pen from W H Smiths and a dress from Marks and Sparks. Somehow she also knew that she had been married for three years and intensely disliked lager. John settled down for the drive, they were ready, they knew who they were and who they had to find, nothing else was important.

As they passed across the Suffolk border she suddenly smiled and chanted tonelessly.

“I know where we’ll find him.”

“Where?”

He works for Citibank and every Saturday Morning he checks the floor-safe.”

John groaned.

“That’s great.”

Molly waved a piece of paper.

“Who’s go the entry codes then?”

He didn’t answer, this was an assignment, you didn’t ask questions on an assignment.

Citibank was a long low miserable looking concrete block of a building, the side entrance down a urine smelling alleyway and the door reinforced with stainless steel. It didn’t matter; they had the codes. Inside it was all cream and green, cream walls and green carpets. Finding the safe was easy and their man – their target – was examining the contents that were spewed out over the floor. John walked in, kicked a wad of banknotes across the floor and grabbed the man’s shoulder in a vice-like grip that brought sweat to his brow.

“You Tom Houston?”

“What’s it to you?” He gasped.

“Take your left shoe off.”

“You have got to be…” He groaned as John increased his grip and swiftly used one foot to push the shoe off the other. Molly whipped off his sock.

“It’s him.”

John stood back and threw a green sports bag at his feet.

“Undress and put these on.”

Tom, now free of the dreadful grip, gained a few modicums of resistance.

“Why should I?”

Molly reached out and stroked his hair.

“Because,” she purred sexily, “If you don’t we’ll remove your testicles with a rusty nail-file and work upwards from there.”

John’s grip may have been painful, Molly’s purr was something else, he scrabbled to open the bag and pulled out the contents. He looked up.

“These?”

“Those, you’ve got ten minutes.”

Tom fingered the garments he had sworn he would never wear, not under any conditions, not even if the earth caught fire. Garments he’d never wear to a place he’d decided not to go. Molly pulled a wicked looking nail-file out of her handbag and the die was cast.

The van swerved around another corner and Molly looked into the back.

“Comfy?”

Tom groaned. The clothes were bad enough, but the gaffer tape around the wrists and across his mouth were worse. John checked his watch.

“We’re cutting it fine.”

“Relax, shell be late; they’re always late.”

Another corner, two sets of traffic lights and a final sweeping bend brought John to the destination, he screeched to a halt. Molly reached into the back, cut the gaffer tape and not too gently tugged the second piece off of Tom’s mouth. She handed him a top-hat.

“They’re waiting.”

John opened the doors and Tom stumbled out blinking at the sunlight. There was a cheer from the two men at the church door.

“Tom, you old rouge, you had us worried; thought you were going to leave a Chief Constable at the altar.”

One of them fingered Tom’s grey suit.

“At least your dressed for the occasion.”

John leant forward.

“And we’ll be watching, right to the end.”

He patted Tom on the shoulder.

“And congratulations.”

They watched from across the road as the ‘happy’ couple walked down the human aisle of police constables with truncheons drawn. John felt tired, actually he was more than tired, he felt completely drained.

“Job done,” he murmured.

Molly rubbed a hand down his thigh.

“We’ve orders to get lost; I know a safe-house in Frinton.”

She waved the tiny piece of paper with the bank codes on it.

“Shall we?”

She gave him a full-on kiss, not out of lust or sexual manipulation, but out of desire to come. He licked his lips as he fought to control his heart rate.

“Shall we what?”

“Get lost?”

He studied the piece of paper, her eyes and his empty memory.

“Why not, after all it’s mission accomplished.”
