There were no crows in the trees in the moon's light, no reflection of bats in the still water of the lake, flitting here and there after bugs above the placid lake in the nearly calm breeze, no reflection in her compact mirror for my aunt, Ubo, not to see since she had been blind from birth. As he put the pills to his unseen lips and swallowed them with the water hidden until then in the unseen silver thermos bottle he had brought along for that purpose, first a few, them more than a few at a time, and finally all ninety capsules. Then he lay down in the sand, not seen, and waited to sleep, to sleep without end, as the end came unspectacularly and his soul left his lifeless body, again unseen, in the nearly perfect darkness that night.

Then a bright full moon fell through the clouds as a bat darted toward their heads. Ducking, they were startled also by the crows in the distant leafless oaks which immediately cawed as they took flight, all seven or eight of them.

Ubo joined the party, coming from the direction of the lake. The aging female was the best tracker they had. Many thought she was crazy, but she had proven herself once again as she tracked the black cat-like Clo on a night like this.

I knew when she walked right through the search party we were too late, but I started to ask, "Is he dead?" anyway.

Ubo removed her sunglasses and I was amazed once again by the awesome white covering on her eyes that had been there since her birth. Then she laid those eyes on me until she was sure I knew my own shame.

"You know," I said.

Her eyes grew wider, a reaction I had only seen once in my entire life and this was that time. But how could she know? I could see there might be a way for her to know where the image of someone in a mirror was. I had no idea how that was possible, but I never doubted it. Then I could extend that to a bat's reflection in still waters, but that clearly was well beyond reason to me. However, to somehow know the secret in Clo's mind, surely that was impossible. If we were not talking about my aunt, Ubo, here, I would have rejected the notion without reservations.

As I followed the sounds she made before me back to the camp I was surprised to find she was not with them at the camp when we returned.

"Have you seen, Ubo?" I asked several people before Ahabo came out of his tent shouting, "Where in blazes is Ubo?" I shrugged. "What about Clo?" he asked, his eyes wild with anticipation. I shrugged again. "You were too late!" I nodded. "Man! And, he was the only one who could know." I shrugged, wondering if that was indeed a fact. "Cuah! Don't do that! Don't just stand there and shrug." But I did it again and he left angry.

I then took my bedroll and walked to the perimeter of the camp, laid it down on the ground, and taking my wet boots off, I crawled in, searching immediately for the wizard to dust me with his own special powder.

"Oh! There you are," I said. "Were you hiding?"

"A wizard's work is never done. You are very fortunate I still owe your aunt a tidy sum, for I would have nothing to do with you otherwise. A man your age still requiring a wizard's dusting to sleep! Who would have thought it?"

Even as he spoke however, the sparkling dust drifted down from the heights he had thrown it, and as I watched the sparkling dust particles, sleep came upon me like a comfortable blanket.

Then a darkness like the night the search party had just experienced greeted me. I knew there was something, or someone in the darkness, someone I could not see any better than my aunt could see the bats reflected in the lake water, nor her own image in the compact mirror which she always carried, nor certainly the man in black clothing committing the murder of his own person on a night where there was simply no light to be seen, but I could just feel someone was there.

It was as if someone were saying to me, "I am here too," but who it could be, I had no idea.

Suddenly someone kicked my bootless feet as if they had expected them to be dressed and ready for immediate action, awakening me to the same night at the same campsite. I began putting my boots on as my aunt waited patiently I presumed. Dressed, I followed her sounds again into the woods, confident she knew what she was doing.

Though the moon was still up and I could see many things in the forest, I could not see the ground well because of the moon shadows, and as usual, I knew only where my aunt wanted me to think she was by the occasional well timed snap of a twig, or the well planned swish of a tree limb, until at last I tripped over something and fell headlong in the sand. But why had Aunt Ubo brought me to Clo's body?

She was nowhere to be seen again by the way, and I heard nothing from her, so I probed the corpse. There were no pockets in the one piece jumpsuit that had nothing underneath. I removed the boots. There was nothing hidden in them, so I opened his mouth. There was nothing in there either. There was nothing anywhere on the body! Why had she gone to such great lengths to indicate to me what I already knew, his secret was still with him even in his death?

"Okay?" I shrugged as if speaking to the trees. "So, you really are the only one who knows his secret. Don't worry. Nobody else will be able to figure it out either."

She slowly stepped out of the brush, reached down to the ground, picked something up like a sighted person would something in plain view, and handed it to me just moments before she again vanished into the forested night.

I stood silently in the darkness and listened. I was breathing and could hear that, I could also hear the changes in the breeze in the trees, the tiny waves crashing on the black lake shore nearby, and Ahabo's coffee cup as it was set upon the table in his tent, and I could also smell the coffee, so I knew where to go as I left Clo's body where it was in the sand, and returned to my bedroll at the edge of the camp, feeling really rather proud of myself.

Then an old hoot owl distracted me, but he was too late, I was already back in my bedroll and very nearly asleep, this time on my own and glad he had not chosen to distract me earlier as I put the small object Aunt Ubo had given me earlier in my waistband just to the right of my belt buckle.



I heard Ahabo cussing someone at the other end of camp, and I heard the clank of metal against metal, as the tents were being broken down and loaded into trucks, ready for the trip home. "What do you mean there was no body? Where did it go? … " Ahabo was yelling.

'Where could it have gone? He was dead, dead and stiff, when I examined him last night,' I was thinking as I awoke.

“His tracks can't just lead out into the sand and not come back. Get me Cuah. Why? Because it was his tracks that were found with the corpse, that's why. I want to know what he did with it… " he continued to rant.

I walked swiftly toward Ahabo, having no idea as to how to explain my actions last night, and wondered why I had not anticipated this would happen then, but it was too late now, I would just have to trust Aunt Ubo, she knew this would happen. This is what she wanted. But what was she up to?

"Cuah! Where did you take the corpse? And why?"

"I never took it anywhere. I just went to see it, to see what I might find out about it, and as it turns out I was right, there wasn't a moment to lose."

"And?"

"I found this," I said and pulled the object from my belt, finding it to the left of my belt buckle by maybe an inch and not to the right as I had expected.

"What is this?" Ahabo asked looking it over in the sunlight.

"Here! Let me see it!" I said. "This is the first I've actually seen of it too."

"You didn't even look at it when you found it?" he said, handing it to me.

It was a vial of some sort, or an ordinary pill bottle without a lid, but with a label! "White Night Pharmacy in Hoace," I said, surprised Ahabo hadn't read it. #38684 CYCLOBENZAPRINE, a muscle relaxant. Huh? He was once pretty well relaxed last night alright, but not exactly that when I saw him. Why, Dr. Heauf? Why he's my doctor?"

"What are you mumbling about, Cuah? It's a pill bottle; yours. What is the meaning of this?"

"I don't know! What would Clo be doing with my medication container?"

"Overdosing on it, it appears!" Ahabo said.

"So it would seem," I said.

"That, or maybe you took one of your own tablet containers and put it in your belt and… "

"Why, Ahabo? Why would I do such a thing? What is my motivation?"

He thought a moment, then he said, "Then it must be that screwy aunt of yours. She doesn't need a reason.

Okay, then. You are free to go. There is no evidence you were carrying anything last night, much less, a corpse. It won't be the first time he was presumed dead only to be found alive at a later date."

I walked away in silence. Why had Aunt Ubo exchanged the object for one of my empty pill bottles? And, if she did, why had she been so careless as to replace it on the wrong side of my belt buckle? She must have wanted me to know what she did, and that she had it, and not to worry about it. But did she also mean to indicate she moved the body, or she, at least, knew who did?

When I got back to my tent, it and my bedroll were all ready to go on the truck. How thoughtful of my aunt! Or was she actually looking for something? Maybe it was just a distraction? I didn't know but I had a feeling I was about to find out.



The sun shone bright over the Welfare Office in Hoace and across the street the smell of bacon rose to my nose through the windows from the floor below, and the beeping of my neighbor's smoke alarm somehow managed its way up the inside stairwell and in through the door of our apartment.

“Aunt Ubo! I'm going to Grocer’s Foods for some fresh bacon and some farm fresh eggs. Do you want anything?” I yelled at the bedroom door on my way to the den where I slept very well without the wizard's help the night before.

A round cylinder rolled across the floor in front of me. I picked it up. It appeared to be a medication container without a lid, and the label had been removed also. What did she want me to do with this? Toss it? Roll it back to her? Keep it? I chose to ignore it, went to my room and got a warmer shirt from my closet and headed out. I happened to notice the pill bottle was gone from the inside hall and I noted that as I stepped out into the hallway through the door with the 1313 that looked like BB on it, but right in front of Al, that's all I knew about him besides he was the caretaker.

“Hi, Al!” I said.

“Hello, Cuah,” he said. “You're back! You and your aunt really should let us know when you go for more than a day or so… ”

“The problem is, Al, no one but God knows when we'll be back when we go, or if we'll ever be back when we leave. The best I can do for you as far as I can understand it is to have you wait until we stop paying rent, but don't sell our stuff even then for a month or two, we might just be by to collect it.”

“I'll try to remember that. I just hope you will also should there be a disagreement.”

“I'm not worried, Al. It will all work out. What we do is classified and to tell you the truth sometimes even we don't know what we are going to do until we get there.”

A bat suddenly darted toward Al's head and he ducked. I quickly removed my outer shirt and tossed it at the bat when it flitted my way. The shirt caught it, and the bat and my shirt fell to the floor with my shirt on top. Then the two of us managed to encase the bat in the shirt long enough to get it to an open window in my apartment and let it go outside. The thing didn't fly far and landed by the air conditioner in the next window, and crawled in behind it, perhaps, a newly selected home.

“Thanks,” Al said as he started to leave.

“Did you see that Aunt Ubo?” I asked in my excitement.

“She can see?” Al asked.

I shook my head.

“Oh, so it was just an expression. I see.”

I ignored what he said, wondering why she had sent us such a distraction for as I walked out into the thirteenth floor hallway a second time, and just in time to catch a glimpse of Clo's head as he walked down the rear stairs! Could it really be Clo in our own stairwell? How? He was dead! Wasn't he?

I ran to the stairwell letting the door to the apartment slam as I did, just in time to hear the door on the twelfth floor close even above the noise of my steps coming down the stairs behind him. I was too late again. As I got to the door, I was somehow not surprised to find no evidence he had ever been anywhere near the apartment complex.

“Thanks a lot,” I said as Aunt Ubo appeared behind me; both of us looking down the hallway on the twelfth floor.

She said nothing as usual but bending down near where I stood, she rolled the pill bottle I had seen earlier down the hallway.

The door to 1215 opened and Al stepped out, looked at us strangely, and bent down, picked up the bottle, and walked on down the hallway. Then when he reached the custodian's room, he opened the door briefly, and tossed the bottle in the trash, and looking back at us, he continued on until he went down one of the central elevators.

Immediately I started down the hall, but Aunt Ubo caught my shirt and I let her pull me back. “Okay, I'll just wait for him to come out after it, and then I'll nab him.” I said to my aunt who did not reply of course, and when I turned to see why, she was gone.

Sometime later she came out of one of the central elevators. She walked up to the door marked, Private, opened it and began digging around in the trashcan inside.

“Here!” Axel who had come down the elevator with my aunt said. “Here! Old woman! Do you belong here? Get out of there!”

“Mind your own business!” Aunt Ubo said.

“Madam!” he insisted. “Stop that! It is against the rules to dig in the trash for aluminum cans and the like. Now please stop or I'll have to contact the management.”

“It's alright,” I assured Axel as I strolled to the scene as nonthreatening as I could manage. “She lost her pills and thinks she may have thrown them out by mistake.”

“Oh. Here then, Madam, let me help!” he said taking out a pack of gloves from his sack of groceries, managed a pair of thin plastic ones, and putting them, on won even my aunt's permission to retrieve the medicine container, which of course was empty the last time I had seen it.

“Aw! Here it is!” Axel said, coming up with what appeared to be a perfectly clean pill bottle. “But, it's empty!”

My aunt snatched it from Axel and curtly walked to the elevators again.

I shrugged and started walking behind my aunt.

“Why thank you, Axel,” the Samaritan said to himself as he made his way, groceries and all to his nearby apartment. “Why thank you so much. You are a lifesaver. Here, Axel, here's a buck, buy a coffee for yourself or something.”

Axel's door closed noisily just as Clo sped past me toward my aunt and the elevators as the door was already closing in Aunt Ubo's car. Clo reached it just as the door finally closed for good so, he immediately went up the central stairs on a dead run, with me hot on his heels toward the door to the stairs. I just reached the door to the stairway as the elevator doors opened again. It was only my aunt. This time she stepped out and sent the elevator to the thirteenth floor, empty.

I then joined her in the other elevator. We took it to the first floor and enjoyed an outing at Grocer’s Foods, which is just blocks away.



I n the rainbow the memories of Clo's death, and untimely visit to our apartment complex, gave way to visions of great wonder and magnificent beauty stretching across the angry clouds that had passed us, bringing much rain, and anxiety underscored by our understandable fear of the previously unknown.

Clo had died, it was clear, but now Clo was alive! It left us, Aunt Ubo and I, wondering if all of the rules of reality had changed, or whether Clo's case was an isolated phenomenon somehow connected to the medicine container with no lid, found near Clo's corpse, that very dark night in southern Manitoba not so long ago.

I took the cursed or blessed vial, depending on how you looked at it, brought the blamed pill bottle to Dr. Heauf and asked him to have its contents analyzed for traces of any chemical residue that might not yet be destroyed. The results came back with the expected traces one was sure to encounter in any standard capsulated medication but with at least one unknown chemical that the labs here in Hoace could not begin to identify, let alone analyze.

“Eureka!” I shouted when he gave us the news but soon had my emotions completely deflated when Dr. Heauf told me that such was the case with virtually all analyses of the type performed on the vial, thought merely to exist because of unknown interactions between chemicals and, or equipment failure. He said we could pursue it further if we wanted, but in all the instances he had ever heard of these incidences always proved to virtually not to exist under the scrutiny of far superior equipment of the sort they were sure to have at the larger universities. It was then a veritable dead end. The vial contained all of the chemical traces commonly left by many barbiturates of the old school sedatives. There were deadly sleeping pills in that bottle! Clo had peacefully drifted quickly off to sleep, to sleep until his demise. Yet, he was alive and well.

We were walking home all the way from Anne Street because we missed the bus so I thought and were too proud to take the cab so long as we were not in any real danger. The street was deserted except for the occasional automobile, all of them had but one passenger, who quickly sped away unceremoniously when they realized my aunt was hitchhiking.

The bright blacktop with its deleterious lack of side-striping and yet welcome white centerline glistened beautifully in the damp earth complete with advancing sunshine and ever growing shadows, and the profound silence awed by the above mentioned rainbows.

“Auntie! Get back here on the shoulder with me!” I yelled, for I stumbled along among the chunks of blacktop chipped off by the plows of previous winters, the coarse gravel, and clumps of quack grass that clung to the roadside like islands in a very straight stream’s bottom. “I'm afraid you'll get run over.”

She ignored my right to complain and took offense at it, adopting a defensive posturing as I fell silent, fearing some sort of intimidating outburst. Why was it she had me in this fix? What good could come of missing our most economical mode of transport? I could not fathom it, so I asked her straight out, “What do you have in mind for me to learn from this crap?”

She was quiet, her dark face and ancient white eyes staring into the breeze that followed the storm. I looked where she was staring by happenstance, I had not been the least bit curious since I had settled it in my more sentient quarters that she had simply missed the bus and was too proud to admit it and take a cab so long as we appeared safe, but there in the distance was a lone black figure walking toward us across the large field west of the clinic and hospital, and south of the other two clinics. Knowing my aunt, it could be no one other than the resurrected Clo of course.

“How do you know these things?” I asked shaking my head in expected amazement.

“There is more than meets the eye to just about everything. You must look with your heart, and your mind, and remember to use your eyes as tools not as gifts. She held up the empty pill bottle. There were scratches in the glue left behind when the label had been removed and it was visible in this light but could perhaps have been felt at almost any other time also.

“PBI 5:30 9/12.”

Anyone living in Hoace would have no trouble deciphering it, for the first part was the locally famous letters of a media complex just north and west of the field. The rest was obviously the date of an appointment of some sort. She had intended that we be exactly where we were, obviously having some type of parley in mind with Clo.

Becoming more and more animated, she now stood on her tiptoes on the white centerline and waved a large wave as high as her five foot, one-half inch stature would allow.

Clo stopped dead in his tracks.

I walked out to Aunt Ubo and put my arm around the old woman's shoulders. She looked up at me. She was crying. Then I too raised my hand skyward at first and then waved it back and forth in the manner of a distant one who welcomes.

Clo resumed his hike toward us, but, at least, we now knew he knew we were there, and had come in peace.

Just about then Auntie freed herself from my hold on her upper body. Crouching she meowed like no cat I had ever heard, forcing me to seek out her eyes to see whether she did in fact see something else with her blindness. True enough, a playful little black kitten ventured out of the taller grasses near the far side of the road, walked up to her and accepted a piece of smoked pork chop from the blind old bat of a crazy woman who knelt there next to me.

“How did you… ?” I started to ask when the kitten took it in its tiny head to waddle quite rapidly in my direction. In no time at all, I was completely compelled by the tiny feline to do whatever she willed.

“Asbo bobe!” my aunt called and the kitten came to her. “Look!” she said. “She knows her name.”

Then I more felt the growing presence of Clo than I sensed him with any of my five senses. There was a smell, and an odor I could almost remember, but not quite yet.

“Try,” the old woman urged with no enlightenment from me whatsoever. “Try and remember. You know who, or what it is. It is strange to me. I have never known it.”

In my mind's eye, I stood nearly naked in the barnyard. It was raining cats and dogs, and I was crying! There was an incredible white flash of light and a very, very loud noise, the likes of which I have only heard once and it was on that occasion. And, and the odor? It was the same only a hundred times stronger. Lightening! Ozone! Clo smelled like he had recently been struck by lightning!

Clo walked to the road just as a drizzle began though the sun continued to shine. He looked at us. We looked at him. Then he took out what we now call a cellphone, flipped it open, punched just one key and said after a long pause, “They know.” Then he put away the phone, and grabbing his chest he said facetiously I supposed, “It's the big one, Redd,” and smiled. “Even cats have a finite number of lives they say.”

“The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away,” I said, taking the phone and closing it for him. “Ashes to ashes, dust to dust… uh… ?”

“Name your kitten, Clo, after me please,” he said as his eyes rolled up into his head and his skin became cyanotic. “They know you know,” he miraculously finished and somewhere in my memory a nurse reached over above my father's corpse and flipped the switch that silenced the continuous beep of a monitor that was flat lining.

Back in the present my dad's aunt managed to get the kitten named Clo in her jacket pocket as we turned again toward the mall.

“Lightening,” was all I said, but Aunt Ubo understood what the uncommon odor was. “Lightening goes to them both,” I wanted to say, but didn't.

“We can go home now,” Auntie said.

“I nodded.

Clo mewed quietly as I threw the pill bottle out into the field, for little Clo had watched it move the grass and wanted to chase it.

I and my aunt laughed, leaving our lives behind as if in the apartment with the bat’s corpse residing under the air conditioning unit.



“Where do you go, little one, when you go out?” Cuah asked as he stood in the screen door and watched me cross the street. As I hugged the ground in order to appear like a shadow from above, with stealth I maneuvered my way to the log to wait, I never noticed he had decided to follow me, and would have paid it no mind had he not startled me when he stepped on a dry twig. When I looked to see what he was up to out here in the meadow, I got the impression he was indeed spying on me, and to be honest I was flattered. He was pleased but did not drop his covert stance and hid behind some shrubbery as if I hadn’t no-ticed him, I suspected because he thought I was about to meet someone, so I sniffed the air. There didn’t seem to be anyone about, and I turned my attentions to a nice little nap in the midafternoon sunlight from the direction of the house, where I lived with Cuah, and Ubo, the old woman who had named me Clo as I had requested.

She knows. But even then it is hard for me to turn very often with Cuah still in the dark. He thinks I am a cat named after a dead guy who they barely knew. I fear he may not be able to handle it even if she enlightened him, and besides he fancies himself a Christian and I’m not quite sure what they would do with me; how they would categorize me, a de-mon, a scientific experiment gone wrong, or what?

Ubacale, the neighbor’s black lab surprised me when she openly came sniffing a trail and heard Cuah, or smelled him, I’m not sure which, and changing her mind gave up the trail, and walked over to Cuah wagging her tail vigorously, causing Cuah to abandon his clandestine monitoring of me just as Ubo said to the dog from behind, “What are you doing out here, Ubacale?” and the dog shifted all of her attention to Ubo instead. “Come,” she said to the dog, Cuah is practicing his stakeout skills. Come on now, let’s leave him to it.”

A moment later then and Cuah rose and stretched, groaning as humans sometimes do as he stretched. I gave up any pretense of sleeping and rolled over to look at him, and he took it as an invitation to come and pet me. I wish he wouldn’t do that. It’s embarrassing. But he thinks of me strictly as an unaffectionate cat. Thus, I found it encouraging when he changed his mind and just stood there when he reached me and said, “I’ll just have to spy on you some other time; somehow my heart just isn’t in it anymore today.”

I noticed as he left that he followed Ubo and Ubacale’s tracks, quite skillfully for a hu-man, and so did not return to the house as I had assumed the woman would have been do-ing. Soon he was out of sight as was the old woman, who it is hard to believe is really blind, and has been from birth. She gets around as if she could see, and has somehow learned to mimic most of the sighted people’s body language, so the only time she is clearly blind is when she is alone in the light, after all she functions better than we do in the dark.

I turned and waited for Dekhesbo to arrive. She is always out here since the time she followed me out here, and our eyes met after a comment she made about her favorite color being the color black. I found it very intriguing she could be so honest about a preference for a symbolically unpopular color, she found my reaction mysterious I think. It was probably not long but it seemed to take her a very long time to decide to come out in the meadow to-day, as I sat and enjoyed the mild September weather, knowing that if she didn’t come out until late, I would be needing a coat and the only one I had was my cat’s, and was only cheered when Ubacale nudged my hand and wanted her petting.

I patted her on the head, then down her back, and she lay down with her feet in the air expecting me to scratch her belly, but I heard something… voices in a hush but nearby. I lis-tened intently and Ubacale, who already knew they were there and wondered why I hesitat-ed to rub her tummy, looked at me as if to say, “Aren’t you going to do it today?” Thus, I did but my attentions were elsewhere, for I wondered whether Cuah had discovered me this time at last and I was curious as to how that would work out.

“Who is he?” Cuah was asking someone, I assumed was Ubo but she was silent. “Where did he come from?” Cuah asked as if he expected an answer.

‘Good, he doesn’t know a thing,’ I thought and paid full attention to Ubacale, who moaned with pleasure as I rubbed her belly and being so into what I was doing I hadn’t no-ticed Dekhesbo’s arrival. Instinctively I jumped as all my attentions shifted from the dog to the woman in a moment, causing the dog to be startled also. Ubacale swiftly rolled onto her feet and growled at the daughter of her owner.

“Did I startle you?” the dark figure said it turned away from me and bending its femi-nine frame reached out to the dog and offered the dog a hand to affirm her scent, but Ubacale reacted unexpectedly by suddenly jumping into Dekhesbo’s face caused her to scream. After a moment’s hesitation the dog then made motions that indicated she only wanted to play, and Dekhesbo rose, laughing at her momentary fear of the dog.

“Have you been here long?” she asked me as she got up and reached down to merely offer Ubacale the palm of her hand, with the dog only able to reach, and lick her fingers.

“No too long,” I said looking into her dark eyes that glistened with interest.

“What’s wrong then?” she asked, her eyes moving from one of my eyes to the other, as if looking for a sign that would clear up her suspicions something was amiss.

I didn’t know what to do. I wanted her to know we were being watched, but I didn’t want Cuah to know I knew it quite yet.

“Whatever it is, I can handle it,” she said and moved in very close, so I took her in my arms and said, “Someone is watching.” She of course looked the wrong direction assuming it was someone in her household. “Listen,” I said as she started to pull away.

A fly buzzed nearby, and in the distance a truck with an illegal muffler groaned its way to some commercial depot or distant warehouse somewhere, but in the end Cuah’s muf-fled sneeze caught her ears and she peered in that direction while saying, “Who is it? Do you know?”

I did of course, and whispered, “Why? Are you considering giving them a show?” while fumbling with the top button of her blouse.

“Stop that!” she insisted backing away from me and swatting my hand.

“Why?” I laughed. “Who would be watching out here?”

“I don’t care,” she said and looked at me hotly expressing she did not find my joke funny, or she had failed to understand the purpose of it. “Do you really think I am that kind of a girl? Don’t kid yourself. I am not some teenager sneaking off to the bushes to be with my lover. Let’s just get this over with.”

She handed me a package which I opened and spread upon the ground, causing Ubacale to investigate its scent but only halfheartedly. Ubacale already knew what it was an-yway. But Dekhesbo walked away, apparently angry with me followed by the dog, so I turned around and began to walk down the path the other way out of sight of the place I had spread the contents of that package on the ground. Then stepping behind a large tree with plenty of brush near its base I turned to my cat and walked back to the spot I had just left, un-able to contain myself a moment longer.

I sniffed. I rolled. I lay upon the ground and rubbed my tummy in it. I have even heard that when you look in my eyes while I am doing this very thing, you see only sheer pleasure.

“It-it’s catnip!” Cuah said to no one in particular, walking up to me and ignoring my efforts to rub against his shoes and the cuffs of his blue jeans since I heard Ubo slam the screen door. “So,” Cuah said to me, “you’re addicted to catnip and by the hands of a stranger.”

Turning himself around he left me to my pleasure, but moments later Dekhesbo re-turned to rub me all over as is her custom, a thing I love more perhaps than I would actually making love to our beautiful neighbor should it ever occur. It was glorious. It seemed to last forever, but all too soon, Dekhesbo began to chill and rose to leave.

“Enjoy little one,” she said, “I’ll be back tomorrow, if it’s nice. I have no idea why he does such things, or why he won’t meet me outside of this meadow, but you know what, Clo? I’m as addicted to you and him, whatever his name is, as you are to that catnip,” as I slipped up on her lap and rubbed my full body against her chest, being completely carried off with the catnip.

Then she was gone. I found myself lying, exhausted on the log where I had sat earlier, and turned to do it again. I didn’t know the exact causes but it was definitely a fact that cat-nip does have an almost bewitching effect on cats, and when I changed I was like any other cat, though I thought perhaps I was a bit more addicted to the effects catnip. I walked over to the nearby tree, knelt, and removed the rain soaked corrugated cardboard and looked under-neath for my message.

It still hadn’t come.

I uncovered the limestone paper and felt tipped pen, and wrote the latest news that Cuah was beginning to suspect there was more to it than just a small black cat venturing into the meadow every day or so. Then I added that I didn’t think he knew what was going on yet and concluded with these words: “Al, next time you come, leave some more cash for catnip or I’ll have to get a job, and that might really blow my cover.”



Ubo, and Cuah especially, kept track of me and that meant they were keeping track of Dekhesbo without meaning to, and with everybody keeping track of everybody else like that, it made it difficult for me to change without being seen. I knew Cuah was about to find out anyway and I reasoned that if he found out in front of his aunt, he might just take it better, so I waited until I was sure it was the right time and then…? Well, I got scared. I mean, what if word got out?

The old blind woman sat in a recliner, knitting, when she must have sensed what I was up to somehow, for she looked at me as if she could see me and smiled. Cuah looked up from the iPad he was reading. It was a book about a crazed psycho about to gun down the staff at a mental hospital, and though he said nothing I could almost hear the word, “what,” come across his lips. I walked out into the room and in plain sight choked I’m afraid, for I looked at Ubo as if she could see me, and at Cuah hoping he would be paying attention so that I would have the excuse of being too shy about changing right while people were watching, for that always did bother me; wouldn’t it bother anyone?

Then I just did it.

Cuah continued to read until it was well past the time for anyone to believe he hadn’t noticed the change. Even then he never said anything, but I could see he was nervous for it was not difficult to ascertain he was breathing much faster than usual, and it was doubtlessly not because of his book, so, feeling rather as though I were naked and everyone else dressed, I walked over and sat in the recliner next to Ubo, causing Cuah to…? Well, he didn’t do anything when he should have, at least, noticed someone had joined him and his aunt, and that was in a sense to do something, wasn’t it?

I leaned back in the recliner, put my feet up, and plugged the ear buds of Cuah’s iPod in, and began listening to the same book he was reading only in audio form, having the devil of a time trying to get it to go back to the beginning of the book, for it wanted to go to Cuah’s bookmarks every time I changed it. Ubo was the first to speak, but what she said was, “I don’t understand those things either,” and still Cuah stubbornly, or stupidly, I’m not sure which, never looked up as was becoming his habit.

“Is seafood for supper okay with everyone?” Ubo asked while appearing to look directly at me.

I nodded.

“You too, Cuah?” she asked.

He looked up, completely unable to avoid seeing me, and looked first to me and then to his aunt before going back to his reading without a word.

“Cuah,” I said with compassion, for I thought he was not taking it so well, but in a way I had not anticipated. “I saw you sitting there,” I continued. “I’m tired of trying to hide all the time. I-I’m sorry if you are upset.” Then I laid the iPod back on the stand and rising went outside to give him time to get used to the idea, but he didn’t seem to pay any attention except that he sighed a bit too soon as I went through the screen door, so I stopped part way through, and stepped back to get a better look at him. He looked at me with large excited eyes, as if he were afraid of something I think I understand but find difficult to describe. Then I went on through the door, wondering how I might make mention of what just happened when the time came.

Outside I paced a while before I walked into the little meadow, hoping Dekhesbo was there. She was. She was sitting on the fallen log watching me as I came directly into view. Knowing I had been so distracted by my own thoughts, thoughts of Cuah’s reaction, that I missed the first sight of her, I watched as she turned so she didn’t have to face me, looking at the blue irises which were in bloom out of season as if it were spring again instead of fall.

I took up a place next to her.

She said nothing.

“You too?” I asked, allowing myself to think her silence and Cuah’s silence were somehow connected.

“Why didn’t you tell me you were living with Cuah and Ubo?”

I said nothing.

She looked at me with alarm, as if she had been betrayed by me.

I had no idea what to say.

“You’ve been making sport of me, haven’t you?” she said and rose to leave.

I reached out and caught her arm, wondering what she meant by that.

She shook her head and scoffed at my vain attempt to find something to say that would not reveal that I and the black cat she knew as Clo, were one in the same. Then she pulled away from my grasp and walked away, clearly not intending to come back even though I never understood why, so I changed and ran to get in front of her, and walking along so she could not miss me, meowing and fretting as if there were something wrong, for that there was; something was very wrong.

It worked for she stopped and looked at me, and I quit fretting and looked her in the eye. But as she started to stoop to pick me up, I changed, right in front of her, and standing face to face with her now I must have looked full of fear, for that I was. “Can you forgive me?” I asked and reached for her hand which was hanging at her side.

She was quiet. I assumed it was because she was overcome with a sense of awe. Then she reached out and inviting me to hold her, she began to cry. “Will you ever forgive me?” she said and drew her head back to look me in the eye now.

“For what?”

“I thought you were a government agent sent here to spy on us.”

‘How ironic,’ I was thinking in the uncomfortable silence that ensued.

“You’re not,” she said. Then pulling back away from me completely she said, “Are you?”

I chuckled.

She seemed hurt by it.

“I am not a government agent. I can assure you of that,” I said as she stared back testing this new environment, an environment wherein cats change into people right in front of you I assumed, for really she hadn’t said anything.

Then she changed.

A beautiful white fluffy longhaired cat wound around my feet.

Tears came to my eyes as I plucked her from the ground, held in my arm and began to pet her while carrying her to the house even though she didn’t seem to notice where we were going. Down the little path with the purring machine in my hands, the future in my mind and the past seeming a senseless place of equal foolishness behind me, I walked on.

Cuah saw me and Dekhesbo coming, turned and went back in the house, leaving the blind woman alone in the yard, all smiles. Just as we reached the other side of the street she changed into a bat and flew about the yard, dodging towards us with a joyous feel about her movements that made me laugh. Then a dog, a mangy cur of a dog pushed its way through the screen door, barking loudly as Dekhesbo turned back into the beautiful woman I had known and loved, all this time in an effort to appease the dog.

“Quiet, Cuah!” the old woman said as she lit next to me, changing now right in the street. “You’ll wake the dead, and God knows what forms they take these days.”

Cuah wagged his tale as he came up to me, Dekhesbo and Ubo, then he too took on his human form and we went in together and enjoyed a meal of Alaskan salmon, wondering who they might have been… Well, at least, I did, anyway.

As we finished, Ubo said. “You know, these people think they have only one form.” Then she rose from the table, changed, flew around the room a couple of times, and took up a perch upside down under a shelf near the wall that housed all of the spice containers.

“If they only knew,” though unstated, seemed to hang in the room and move the dust around in the beams of sunlight as if it was the gentlest of breezes.
