It was at the dinner party that Oscar Wilde met H.G. Wells that marked the divergence of political philosophies in the English speaking world. Both had been summoned as “young writers of Britain’s future” by a brash young scientist hailed by some as genius and, by others, as a madman. He clearly had money, as the Georgia terrace house was filled with expensive works of art, fine furniture and a dutiful staff. The young scientist was tall, thin and had a head thick with dark hair. Dressed in expensive dinner clothes, both Wilde and Wells thought he embodied the Victorian ideal of outward appearance reflecting perceived inner worth. Both writers took a drink as soon as it was offered.

After the last dishes were cleared the various guests begged off for the evening, Wells and Wilde found themselves the only two left in the study with their host. Wilde, dressed in dusty white dinner suit, looked at Wells in his staid black and shared a silent thought: The drinks were good and he was loathe to dismiss an invitation offered with flattery and a lavish meal—please stay awhile.

Alright, Wells replied with a lift of his glass.

As they drank their brandy by the fire, the scientist asked them their views of the future.

“The future is what artists are,” Wilde said with splendor.

“It is written,” replied Wells, more solemn. “A great socialist utopia in my lifetime is inevitable. Evolution demands it. We see it already at work.”

Refilling their glasses, the scientist described his theories about time and dimensions. Wells held his glass up to the fire, and as the flames flicked and refracted, the young writer understood that he was witnessing a revolution of thought and understanding. The scientist was a genius. “In short,” the scientist summed up with pride, “we can travel and see the future for ourselves.”

“Ah, to make the future today,” Wilde laughed. “Then you are not a scientist, but a true artist!”

“And what if I could bring you to the future?” the scientist asked.

“I fear that when I arrived for the second time life would become twice as tedious,” Wilde quipped.

“My future involves sleep, I’m afraid,” replied Wells.

“Let me show you,” the scientist said. He pushed the issue, knowing that Wilde would soon leave and unable to read Wells’ face. “It will only take a minute. But I can have my man hail a cab, if you wish. While you see my experiment.”

Through a door off the study, they entered a carriage shed that had been converted into a workshop. In the middle sat a chaise longue upholstered in purple velvet, with a small clock three inches in diameter set into its back. It sat on top of a low unadorned wooden stage ten feet square. Rising from each corner was a ten foot metal rod, with the top of each rod connected to the other corners with a tightly strung wire. The entire effect was a chaise longue in a cube.

“I knew that sitting was in my future,” Wilde said. “Well done.”

Wells said nothing. His eyes bore into the stage, for he knew the mechanism must be under it, and after a brief hesitation he cautiously stepped onto the stage and sat down. He put his drink at his feet. “How does it work?” he finally asked.

“You sit,” the scientist said. “I push some controls and you move forward.”

“Or back?” Wells asked.

“Like magic,” Wilde offered. He clearly was not buying any of it, and felt sleepy and bored. The latter offended him the most.

“I wanted the future of Britain to see this first,” the scientist said, with deep sincerity and humility that Wilde noted.

“I think he means us,” Wilde said to Wells.

“Oscar,” Wells said, firmly. “Sit. Let’s try it.”

“My wife always thought the future belonged to Wilde,” the humorist mused. To the scientist he said, “One hundred years. Oh, and call my cab for when we get back.”

No sooner had Wilde sat that they were gone. In the twenty-first century the chaise longue, Wilde, Wells and a brandy glass appeared in a closed library in Lawrence, Massachusetts. Both men took a breath, and then quietly rose together.

“I’m going to miss that cab, I’m afraid,” was all Wilde could think to say.

Wells looked around. “The clock,” he said, pointing to the back of the chaise. “It is running backwards. I think we have two hours before it returns us.”

“At least we are surrounded by books,” Wilde said, noting the walls and cases around them. “And a drink. He nodded towards the brandy Wells had placed on the floor a minute—and one hundred and twenty years—earlier. Immediately, Wilde began browsing.

“Two hours to see the future,” Wells said at last. He began pecking at the computer that had been left on. It had attracted him because it looked like the future. By accident, his elbow knocked the mouse and he saw the cursor move. In five minutes he had managed a Google search. “We went ahead further than one hundred years, and this is clearly not London.”

“We are in America,” Wilde reported a few minutes later. “And we are famous.” He said this latter bit as inconsequential, hoping to be dramatic.

Wells looked up from the screen. “What do you mean?”

Wilde held up a book that Wells had not yet written. “You have ten books on the shelf.” Flipping open to the third page, he showed Wells the list of all of the titles he is reported to have written. “You’ve written a few score more, including one about a time machine. I am not as prolific, but I am represented.”

“That’s satisfying,” Wells said, but added, “I’m not sure we should know.”

Wilde poked around, picking up the unfamiliar familiar—glossy magazines and lurid books protected in plastic. “People,” he said, reading the cover of the magazine in his hand. Flipping the pages, he chuckled at the people unknown to him having triumphant success and rehab falls in graphic colored brilliance. The same faces smiled at him from Us, Time and Newsweek. “So simple.” Then, he picked up a newspaper and scanned the headlines.

“Apparently, America has homosexual marriage,” he said aloud, scanning the article about a legislative battle somewhere. “Now all tastes can be miserably bound.”

“And politics.” Wells had managed to pull up a site with clips, and a variety of politicians came forth and talked in sound bites. “The same nonsense.”

Wilde looked at the important looking people spout homespun witticisms. Recalling his trip to America a few years prior, he knew pandering when he heard it, versus authentic sentiment. There were those who belonged—Wells is one, Wilde thought—and those that never will quite fit with civilized society. Gay marriage, indeed. “I think women can vote,” Wilde said, noting that some of the women speakers held political offices. “Now everyone can participate in the futility of participatory democracy.”

Wells was slightly disappointed; he had thought women would change the discourse. In the box marked Search in the upper corner he typed in war. Videos of mass destruction popped up, along with a dozen links to something called The History Channel. “There apparently was a World War Two.”

“It is then safe to say there was a World War One. Suffice to say, we survived it.” Wilde watched as Wells passed images of Iraq, Vietnam, death camps, and the atomic bomb. People in clips shouted and surged and cried and died. “Good lord,” Wilde exclaimed. “America is fighting in Persia. I thought only the British conquered useless faraway lands.”

“Perhaps we need to see this world for ourselves.” They went out the back door, making sure to place what Wilde said was called a DVD in the doorjamb to keep from being locked out. Coming around the front, they were surprised by the noise, dirt and traffic of the city.

“It seems that carriages run on their own, now,” Wilde commented, lacking the awe that most would expect.

“I read something about such work in Germany,” Wells replied. “Before we left,” he clarified.

On the front steps of the library sat a homeless man. The man looked sixty, but upon closer inspection he was closer to forty. Adorned in dirty, worn clothes that matched his flesh, he looked sick. Next to him was bag filled with… they couldn’t tell. It did not matter. Wells looked at the man; he was no different than the poor beggars that were ushered to the slums back in London.

“I cannot believe, after one hundred years, the condition of the poor has not improved.”

Wilde didn’t really notice, but was instead attracted to the small signs affixed to the back of the carriages: I don’t suffer from insanity, I enjoy it; All men are animals, but some make better pets; Hard work has a future payoff, laziness pays off now; Always remember you’re unique, just like everyone else; Consciousness is that annoying time between naps; Women who seek to be equal with men lack ambition; I used to have a handle on life, but it broke; A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle…. His eyes darted from car to passing car, and he smiled.

Walking a few blocks, they passed storefront churches, and large and tired Catholic brick edifices. Music played with a fast beat blared from windows and passing cars. People—men and women—showed a lot of skin and wore their underwear for walks to the store. There was friendly yelling. Wells and Wilde ate a chilidog, bought with old British money Wilde had been able to convince the clerk to take. After an hour of this, Wells was depressed and Wilde was bored by Wells’ reaction.

“The great utopian revolution does not seem to have occurred,” Wilde muttered.

Wells pulled out his pocket watch. “We should be getting back.” As they passed the front of the library, Wells again noted the homeless man. “How can this still occur, with what this country has?”

“In a nation that created The Slushy? Seriously, if we care, then we have to commit.” Wilde took the foreign coins still in his pocket and gave it to the man.

“You don’t think people care?”

“Tossing a few coins is not caring.”

“Could they not help him?”

“Every social ill begins decades before. If you want to deal with poverty you need to make sure children are born into good families, are loved and wanted, have good homes and can go to good schools. To do that you need to do something with the families before the child is born to make them good. Of course, even in the best of homes tragedy and bad decisions plague us, so we need to commit to those, too. Underlying all of this, we have to accept and love each other for who they are. Jesus said as much, and look what they did to him. Do we really want to make the effort?”

Wilde pulled on the back door. It swung open and they entered.

‘What, then, is the alternative?” Wells asked.

“Politics.” Wilde smiled as he made his way to the chaise. “And, aesthetics. Art reminds us of the ideal, which inspires to act in little ways that improve the lot of those around us. Life imitates art far more than art imitates Life.”

“Is that why you write?”

“To be paid.” He paused. “No, that’s not true. I write to amuse myself. Today, though, I’ve been amused by the writings of others. I am, you could say, inspired.”

“We should sit.”

Wilde picked up Wells’ brandy glass and took a long sip. “Ah, time,” he said.

With that, they were back in the scientists’ garage. Two hours had passed in their British present.

“It is a grim thing,” Wells said when they returned. “It is like nothing I could imagine.” They agreed to keep the scientist’s secrets until he was ready to announce them publicly. With few others words said besides pleasantries, Wells departed from the scientist’s home and disappeared into a writing frenzy.

Wilde returned ready for the masses. At his first luncheon he offered, “Well behaved women seldom make history.” He then wrote it in several of his pieces for the paper, referring to various women of the time. In response to rumors of war he said, “Guns don’t kill people, people do.” The press loved that one, repeated it every time the bluster of war was raised, and Wilde dined on it for weeks.

Shortly after their dinner, the scientist disappeared. A search of his workshop found an empty room.

After six months, Wells emerged with notebooks filled with outlines for several novels and the first printing of The Time Machine. People were abuzz about the novel, as early reviews gushed about his ideas and his prophecy of doom. All of the right people asked him to dinner, and Wells was obliged. Eventually, he ran into Wilde.

“Ah, Wells,” Wilde said. “I see you’ve been busy.”

“As have you, from what I’ve read. I am surprised by what you’ve done with your knowledge.”

“The future is not what it used to be,” Wilde tossed out, and looked at the fire. “Instead, I am offering bons mots for our generations foolhardy decisions?” Wilde chuckled. “I can’t think of a more appropriate use of the knowledge we’ve gained. You don’t think what we write will make any difference, do you?”

“You’ve seen what I’ve seen,” Wells said. “The war. The violence. The disregard for our world. Don’t you feel a responsibility? Shouldn’t your writing warn others about what’s happening?”

Wilde smiled and looked at Wells with a bit of pity. “If you don’t like my driving….” he said, letting the rest of the phrase remain unsaid.
