The Southwestern wind blew dust devils across the road leading to the ancient native burial grounds. Swirling and whipping small particles into a frenzy, the devils did little more than cloud the otherwise unpolluted air. In mindless desperation and near silence, the sand drifted slowly across the mutilated corpse seemingly trying to bury what had been left in disgrace at the ground’s edge. Sand-specked, dried blood covered the body’s hairless skull, bringing further dishonor to the memory of the once proud Apache warrior. Her scalp had been viciously stripped from its bony foundation leaving clear grooves deep into the normal architecture. Like so many other killers in the distant past, the executioner had left with a trophy, bloody human flesh that was savage proof of her death. Savagery taught and encouraged by the early invaders from Europe, men who had briefly tried and failed to eradicate the natives before accepting the way of the land or leaving altogether. Savagery not practiced by the Apache, then or now. Millennia after crossing the Bering land bridge, the Apache ancestors were driven into the North American southwest eight hundred to one thousand years ago by cataclysmic volcanic eruptions in the far north. These same major disruptions in the Pacific Rim’s Ring of Fire were serious enough to cause a mass of congruent native migration to many other areas in the Americas in that distant past just as they had done for tens of thousands of years before that. The result was a heavy scatter of people with extremely different cultures to all reaches of the northern and southern continents, and what eventually would be thousands of distinct nations or tribes across the centuries.

When the Apache finally reached the southwest, many other people had already been calling it home for thousands of years, and some of them, such as the Clovis people and the ancient Anasazi had long ago come and gone from the world. The early Apache first existed as nomadic family units, appearing considerably more disorganized than most of the other people in this new land. They recognized no tribal entity, so to speak, and even within in bands there were no consistently recognized leaders. The small groups all functioned independently and provided for themselves incessantly by whatever means were necessary. They were hard-core survivors who traveled light and lived on anything available to them in their environment. Like most hunter and gatherer cultures, in good times this consisted of large game such as the deer and buffalo readily available in the region at the time. The nomads followed the animals as they moved between feeding grounds, taking what they could on foot. During the worst of times, they were able to survive by supplementing their diet with whatever roots, berries, nuts and seeds they could gather as they desperately followed the game. When their very existence was at stake, they often found it necessary to take from their stationary and agrarian neighbors from other tribes. Stealth and peaceful, bloodless retreats were valued over bloodshed, and other’s lives were not taken unless the source chose to seriously resist. Further raids were only undertaken when the need was again urgent. Survival was the driving force, not uncontrolled hostility.

A half-buried machinegun and nearby bullet-riddled military all terrain vehicle brought the General’s attention back to the twenty-first century. She stood over the rapidly desiccating and mutilated Apache soldier’s body and tried to identify the remains from her memories of command, not for the Nation’s records or the dead soldier’s family, but because she felt compelled to do so. Nation, Council, and world politics aside, there would be retaliation for this offense, both swift and brutal. The Apache never ignored the transgressions frequently endured or even tolerated by others. In terms of the Apache code of honor, the soldier’s name was ultimately meaningless. The Apache Nation’s people viewed themselves as one in the world, and had since the integration of the Europeans centuries before. The Nation’s people being its most valuable resource, Nation insults including the loss of a single Apache life were always avenged in kind. Following the slow and multistage suppression of the European invasion, the Nation easily evolved with the times, continuing to absorb immigrants and their cultures with the same pride that maintained their own. After all, the Apache were and always had been flexible, utilizing superior ways whenever they presented themselves and still maintaining their own central culture. Over the centuries, this led to major advances in the abilities and holdings of the Apache Nation as well as multiple continued firm alliances with other tribal Nations of the Americas. In due course, other nations of the world also blended in to this massive and growing alliance.

Chase stepped up to the two, clicking the button on his camera to review all of his many shots, but suddenly seemed to freeze in his position. The two other men looked at each other, before the first man made an effort to see Chase's photos. Chase turned the camera to him so that he could view it more accurately, but said nothing. "What the… ?" the first man puzzled. "What was that?" "What was what?" the second man asked as his curiosity got the better of him. "There was some sort of craft in the sky in one of his photos!" the first man said as if he were announcing there was indeed cause for alarm. "Chase!" Audrey shouted from behind, and he turned to see her coming towards him; her eyes red and puffy, as if she had been crying awhile! "What is wrong?" Chase asked, turning away from the two men and, taking her blue and white, mitten clad hands in his bare hands, slipping the camera into his coat pocket along with the Enterprise toy, as he did so. "It's Cap!" she cried. "He… He's the one in the jet!" "You mean, he's… (?)" Chase said and fell silent as she motioned to a news flash on her iPhone. "… The jet was completely destroyed but Captain Rich Churd managed to eject and is resting in a trauma unit in North Country Hospital. It is an incredible turn of events, but it seems that Captain Churd was completely uninjured, landing safely in an undisclosed place, just moments after the jet exploded… " "We have to go see him. Now!" Audrey said.

Knowing this, the General began to formulate a mental list of those bold, stupid or crazy enough to mess with the Nation. Of these three categories, the bold and the stupid had generally learned their lessons painfully in the past, with the exception of a few (clearly fitting into the combined bold and stupid subcategory). Unfortunately, there was no shortage in the supply of crazies in the world. Crazies usually stirred up the bold and the stupid, and when these efforts failed, did a fair job of behaving bold and stupid themselves. Overall, the murder, mutilation, and scalping of an Apache warrior, as well as the desecration of sacred grounds, Apache or not, had to be the work of a crazy. No sane person would take or pay bounty for the scalp of an Apache warrior knowing the guaranteed consequences. The acts were a deliberate attempt to rile the Nation. An Apache scalp hadn’t been taken in hundreds of years. In fact, the Intertribal Council had deemed the act of scalping punishable by death well over a hundred years before now, and the edict had not changed. The Council would fully sanction the justified Apache retaliation, which would proceed whether sanctioned or not. The General found the implications of this near automatic realization disturbing at best. A single incident would purposefully bring down the wrath of the Apache Nation, the entire Intertribal Council, and every one of its allies throughout the rest of the world. The Council had already been notified, and she, the Apache tribe’s Council representative, stood there now to prepare an eyewitness report of the atrocity. All that remained was the identification of those responsible and the bloody aftermath of that identification.

The Nation’s surveillance satellites would have captured the killer’s acts, probably unbeknownst to the perpetrator. The window of opportunity in the death had already been narrowed down to two hours by the facts that the soldier last reported in approximately twelve hours before then, and failed to report two hours later. A second failure to communicate her status brought the soldier to command attention, and the third failure immediately and appropriately brought it to the General’s. A unit of soldiers had routinely been dispatched to investigate, Apache command not anticipating a serious loss during peacetime and also in their own heavily militarized Nation. The unit’s disturbing report brought the General there personally, signifying a major and politically far-reaching event. The Nation’s satellite data would be available to her in a few minutes on her chopper. Had she not seen the end results in person, she could have pretty much guaranteed that she wouldn’t have believed the satellite data.

Rage, and amazingly, uncertainty struggled for control of her thoughts as she tried to assess the situation before she had what would undoubtedly be key pieces of data. What was this all about? Who did this, and why? It made absolutely no sense in the context of the current world. The Apache Nation was incredibly strong now, possibly even invincible. Knowingly provoking the Apache Nation was the effective and realistic equivalent of picking up and shaking an occupied hornet’s nest, extremely predictable and viciously dangerous. The combined tribal strength of the Intertribal Council and its countless global allies magnified this beyond her comprehension. No person, group, or nation had acted against their united strength in twenty years, and then they had severely regretted it. Considering all of these factors, she reached the same conclusion over and over again. The perpetrators and their incomprehensible acts were insane. An endless list of good and sane people would probably die as a result, and vengeance would do nothing to deter the same senseless behavior in the future until the central figures orchestrating the murder, scalping, and desecration were completely annihilated without the merest fraction of a doubt.

The captain abruptly spoke, pulling her from thoughts she could never have expected to have. “General, the satellite data is ready for your review, Sir.” Turning and quickly attempting to refocus her thoughts on the here and now, she surveyed the scene one last time. Numerous Apache men and women of a variety of ranks and specialties were scattered about the area and carefully processing every detail of the site. Not even the tiniest detail would be left undiscovered. She knew this as certainly as she knew her own name. The General’s unquestioned confidence in the people who diligently served under her aside, she knew without a shadow of a doubt that they all had two things on their minds, duty and vengeance, and not particularly in that order. A thin cloud drifted over the almost permanent southwestern sun, and the shadow brought an icy chill down her back. The grimace on the remainder of the soldier’s face told the General her story in as much detail as she would ever get from the data downlink from the satellite. She died gruesomely, and had still been struggling for life when the killer excised her scalp. Pure and unadulterated evil emanated from the horrendous act, a sickening new dimension added to her quick preliminary analysis. The perp would pay immensely for every second of the soldier’s misery. And if the soldier did not have the advantage of warrior kin, she would personally and gladly see to the killer’s destruction herself.

She covered the short distance to the chopper quickly with her captain dogging her heels. Even though they were all Apache, and equals in their Nation in that respect, the utility of the current command structure that had been derived from that of the European militaries was clear. Order was absolutely necessary in any large operation, and the Apache Nation’s military was now an immensely large interplanetary operation. Even as a Cochise descendant, the General did not inherit her rank; her name had been professionally meaningless in her military career. She earned her rank by obtaining each and every one of her military objectives with an absolute minimum loss of life. As with her famed Apache ancestors, the enemy had not been so lucky. That being said, her units worked with surgical precision, killing and destroying only when it was necessary. As dictated by her heritage, the General did not value death or destruction. She would repeatedly back down from a fight if necessary to spare her soldiers’ lives. There had never been honor for the Apache in death, only in their ability to survive. As noted before, in the Apache struggle to survive they adapted when necessary, and utilized everything of value without the crippling effect of hesitation. Pride was far from relevant in this respect. Survival was not. Settling into her seat, she ordered, “Show me the data, captain. Let’s get this show on the road.”

“Yes, Sir.” Was his instant reply. Quickly adjusting herself to sit directly in front of the terminal, she collected her thoughts and prepared to view the video from the satellite downlink. The link terminal occupied the whole backside of the pilot’s seat, and could receive any form of data or communications necessary in the field, whether it was full motion satellite video such as what they expected to see then, or simple text messages. The Apache Nation satellites were capable of capturing digital wide range high definition video data that could be zoomed clearly down to a basic microscopic resolution when conditions were good. As a result, she had visual access to all of the happenings of the world since the time the satellite system had been placed into orbit. The only inputs necessary were the GPS coordinates and the specific time frame. The technology had greatly enhanced Apache intelligence gathering, but had several remaining flaws that significantly reduced the almost limitless amount of potential data they could retrieve. First, video could only be captured in the visual range also viewable by the human eye. This eliminated several useful spectra often used in short-range intelligence gathering, such as infrared. Fortunately, digital enhancement rendered video data usable even in the near absence of light. Second, and far more detrimental, was the inability to penetrate low-level atmospheric disturbances, otherwise known as clouds. The same could be said for any object placed even briefly between the satellite and the target area. Data could be extrapolated to fill in some of the missing data, but this was by no means precise. Finally, the Nation currently lacked the processing power necessary to track movement coordinate to coordinate over time even though the data to do so was stored and available. The General had been told this would not be practical until they had completed the superconductor based processor facility on Luna’s northern pole. The constant subzero temperature there would reportedly make the whole thing possible, and the data itself was already being stored near the same site on the moon. Considering all of this, the General still expected to gain some useful information from the data downlink since the site in question was in the middle of the wide-open and clear skied desert.

Suddenly, the screen lit up. The view started from the satellite’s orbit elevation, and rapidly zoomed towards the earth. An interesting sight the first time anyone watched data like that, but pointless beyond that and sometimes even nauseating. “Captain, I only want the surface view at these coordinates,” The General stated in barely veiled disgust. “Yes, Sir. I’ll cut the theatrics, Sir” “The video tech must be a damn búh.” The General said with a smirk. “Yes, Sir.” The Captain responded, barely concealing a smile. Although English had mostly supplanted the Apache language by then, the General was occasionally compelled to throw a few Apache words into her speech to test and predominantly entertain her troops. Búh was the Apache word for owl, and the captain had passed her test. Within seconds, the view shifted to an overhead low altitude view of the local surroundings time stamped with the beginning of the window of opportunity. The area appeared desolate. The soldier hadn’t even been at the coordinates initially. She had to appear on the scene eventually so the General told the captain to forward scan the data. Since nothing mobile appeared for a short time, the scene seemed unchanged. “Captain, are you running the data forward?” She asked. “Yes, Sir. No activity, Sir.” “Damn waste of time.” “Yes, Sir.” The captain responded, not feeling good about the General’s irritation.

Easily bored, the General’s thoughts flicked back to the past and her tribe’s history. Although the Nations were much more stable now, the early Apache ancestors throughout the southwest brought down the wrath of numerous other tribes in the region due to their raiding behavior, and some of these tribes were as fierce as her ancestors. Apache raids justifiably provoked animosity and retaliation from the victims who had clearly worked hard to acquire the goods that were stolen. After all, labors lost were not easily forgotten, and the raid victims’ own survival was also at stake. Even during that era, however, the Apache would occasionally form alliances with various other nations. As would be expected, these relationships fluctuated with time, resources, and, of course, the behavior of the Apache. The most frequent of these alliances were with the Pueblo, whose villages the Apache often camped around. The Pueblo were proud ancestors of the Anasazi, an ancient and extremely advanced culture that thrived in the southwest in the distant past. The Pueblo were actually numerous distinct tribes that had been designated ‘Pueblo’ by the early Spanish invaders due to their characteristic type of housing. But on their arrival in the early 1500’s, the Spanish conquistadors did much more than give the Pueblo a new name. They caused dramatic changes in the ways of life of all the southwestern tribes. Only a few of these changes, (i.e. sheep, cattle, horses, and guns), were ultimately of any benefit to the natives, and the Apache took to them quickly without falling under the spell of the Spanish.

The General returned to the mental report being generated in her head. First, they had an isolated location in the center of Nation territory. Second, soldiers routinely did solo patrol in the area for reason number one, as evidenced by the dead soldier fifty yards away. Third, the soldier, identity confirmed by the duty roster as Sergeant Ilya O’Connor, had a perfectly clean and exemplary service record. Fourth, the soldier had been seventh generation Apache, her family having originally emigrated from Ireland in the 1860’s. Apache lineage was matrilineal, and the ancestry of all Nation members had been tracked since they entered the Nation for various reasons. A thorough scan of the Apache Nation databases yielded no known cause for retaliation against the soldier or her extended family. The Nation’s military maintained this retaliatory offense data for the protective benefit of its members. The Apache were probably the only nation on the entire planet who kept this type of records. “General, the sergeant has entered the field of view.” The General’s attention fell back to the screen, which had been hypnotically unchanging only moments before. The sergeant’s Jaagé, the Nation’s fast, light duty combat unit, sat at the scene. Jaagé was the Apache word for antelope, a suitable comparison to the vehicle. Again the screen stagnated, this time only different because of the Jaagé. The effect seemed worse due to the shift back to real time video speed, but details could not be missed and would be electronically tagged for fast future review.

After what felt like an hour, but could only have been ten minutes, a soldier exited the vehicle. Pausing and zooming the video down specifically to the soldier confirmed the soldier’s rank and name by way of the shoulder data patch. The patches had been implemented after the satellite system, when it became clear every soldier looked the same from altitude. Unfortunately, the general public wore no such patches, but then, they supposedly also had no awareness of the surveillance abilities of the Nation’s satellites. The soldier, or at least the soldier’s patch, identified, the captain pulled the view back up and restarted the video sequence. The sergeant looked around briefly, and then slowly walked into the burial grounds. Again, she briefly looked around, but stood stationary for several minutes afterwards. The behavior suggested she was listening intently for whatever reason, but only she would ever know this, and she would never tell. She then gradually lowered herself to her knees, and began to sift through the burial ground sand with her hands. These actions were clearly not those of an Apache, particularly one of long lineage! The Apache did not make contact with the dead, even when long turned to dust. Ghost sickness, even though a belief of the past still held tremendous sway over their thoughts and actions.

Historically, the Apache avidly avoided the dead. Following the death of a family member, only the closest male relative prepared the body, and then it was buried as quickly as possible. All personal possessions of the deceased, and even the clothing worn by the relative during the burial were then immediately burned. The dead person’s wickiup, or other dwelling from early times, also came down in fire. In the earliest times, the person’s name was not spoken and more importantly, the grave was avoided at all costs. Violating these beliefs could lead to haunting or even harm by the dead’s ghost, i.e. ghost sickness. In modern times, the medical community had attributed ghost sickness to anxiety and depression related to grief. Both of these psychiatric illnesses were more common in close relatives of the deceased, much like the Apache ghost sickness. In addition, the destruction of the dead person’s possessions and the burier’s own clothes suggested elimination of a possible disease that could have led to the death. As can be seen, science had explained many things away satisfactorily, but a fear of the dead still remained. Superstition, perhaps, but deeply and probably irrevocably entrenched in the Apache culture.

The captain and the General exchanged glances. The situation there had instantly become dire by Apache standards. The behavior they had witnessed to that point indicated extreme deviance from their normal ways, for whatever reason. The Apache were no longer primitive, but they knew their own people. Deliberate sifting of grave dust in a burial ground was indicative of a very disturbed mind, even to that day. “Pause the video, captain!” The General said abruptly. As further evidence the images also disturbed the captain, he paused the video without verbally responding to her command. A small thing she could easily overlook, but extremely significant all the same. The sergeant had no history of psychiatric disturbance, and the records indicated none in her lineage. In addition, there were no known witches in her lineage. Only they, of the Apache, would venture into this realm of behavior in the absence of extreme mental illness, and even then, their sanity was questionable these days. Unbelievable as it may seem, the belief in witches still existed in the current world, Apache and otherwise. In spite of the advancements in science, technology, and medicine, even the General, a seasoned military officer, felt uncertainty in the presence of a known witch. This uncertainty spread to other unexplainable phenomena as well, perhaps as a result of her cultural beliefs regarding the spiritual world.

“What’s your impression of the situation so far, captain?” She asked. “Sir?” “I said what do you think happened here, captain?” “I can’t really say, Sir.” The captain said quickly, reluctant to speak. “Off the record, captain, what do you think?” The General pushed on. “Permission to speak freely, General, Sir?” The captain now said hesitantly. “As I said, off the record. Go ahead.” “Something’s not right here, General. At least, that’s my gut feeling.” The captain said, regretting it immediately. “What do you mean?” The General continued, feeling she was onto something. “I don’t know how to say this exactly, but I don’t think what we saw is…normal, I guess, Sir.” More encouraged by this, the General prodded him further, “Go on.” “Well, I….I didn’t know the sergeant personally or anything. She’s not in my unit, my clan or anything like that. But I can’t see one of our people doing that… I don’t know how else to say it…” The General looked at the captain, feeling the clear uneasiness emanating from him like heat from the sun. The uneasiness being mutual, she kept stone-faced composure as expected for her rank and history. To let these ‘feelings’ cloud her judgment and her command would interfere with the investigation, a possibility she couldn’t afford. What she observed and heard from the captain confirmed her own inner reaction, however, and that ‘gut feeling’ meant a great deal. “Restart the video, captain.” The General stated simply, returning her attention to the monitor. The sergeant’s movements continued for a brief time, then she abruptly stood up. With slowness suggesting she had knowledge of the satellite observation, she tilted her head back to stare at the sky directly above her. The captain sucked in a quick breath and pushed back from the monitor. The evil toothy smile glaring brightly in the sunlight was not that of the sergeant. The image abruptly went black, and stayed black for the remainder of the data window. 

The first entries of the Spanish into the North American southwest were primarily by wanderers, traders, and priests, individually mostly harmless to the native cultures there at the time. But the individuals returned to New Spain with grand stories that eventually led to invasion by the conquistadors in 1539. The second wave of invaders was far from harmless and was interested in conquest and destruction more than anything else. Of course, rumors had also led them to believe that the seven cities of Cibola were in the southwest, and the invaders were greatly interested in finding these cities of gold for obvious reasons. Under Coronado, the conquistadors met considerable resistance, but were brutal, on horseback, and had massively superior firepower. Over time, this culminated in the defeat and submission of multiple native villages, including those of the Zuni Pueblo. The cruel reputation of the Spanish led to the reluctant obedience of many other Pueblo tribes throughout the region. But eventually, Coronado and the other greedy conquistadors were tricked by the Pueblo into heading onto the Great Plains in search of their precious cities of gold. Word of the conquistadors fortunately preceded them through the extensive native trading networks, and the Pecos, Tejas, Apache, and Pawnee further tricked them along the way leading them an even greater distance out of the southwest. After a year of fruitless wandering that took them as far as the Wichita tribe on the Great Plains, Coronado returned to New Spain without a speck of gold, a very broken man.

Multiple other Spanish expeditions into the southwest from 1542 until 1590 resulted in nothing more than Catholic priests dying at the hands of wary, previously abused and now hostile natives. Time passed until 1598 when Juan de Onate, a wealthy man from New Spain, led a large number of soldiers and colonists into the southwest and claimed it as New Mexico for himself, his king, and his god. The Spanish who were intent on converting all of the supposed savages to Christianity and taking their land in the process treated the natives who continued to inhabit Onate’s freshly claimed New Mexico poorly. When turned their way, this treatment quickly led to open hostility towards the Spanish from many other tribes including the Acoma, Jumano, Navajo, Tewa, Hopi, and Apache. Even with this added resistance and due predominantly to their continued superior firepower and uncontained brutality, the Spanish continued to be successful in defeating the natives, but the most stationary of the tribes, the Pueblo of course felt the greatest impact since they were trapped in the heart of Juan de Onate’s unrightful claim. In the years following the defeat of the natives, the Pueblo fell even deeper into the very controlling influence of the invading Spanish. The cruel reality was that the Pueblo tribes had absolutely no other choice because they were being forced into slavery at the hands of both the Spanish military and the Spanish priests. To further the insult, the Spanish government conveniently granted native lands to its soldiers, and the grants dictated that all inhabitants of that land immediately had to serve the Spanish owner and could no longer hold property of their own. In addition, the soldiers now expected tribute from their native slaves on a regular basis, leading to the natives being pushed to near starvation. Unfortunately, the Catholic priests were no better to the natives than the Spanish soldiers. The priests also expected slave labor in their fields and churches, but worsened the situation by demanding that the natives abandon their own spiritual beliefs and become Christians. Failure to comply with the demands of either the soldiers or the priests resulted in beatings and or death.

The Pima Indians, who had been recruited and Christianized very early in the Spanish invasion of the southwest, initially continued to help the Spanish in their colonization efforts, including in Spanish battles with the Pueblo, Navajo, and Apache. Eventually, due to the characteristic poor treatment dealt out by the Spanish in spite of their supposed Christian alliance, even the Pima returned mostly to their native ways and joined the intertribal union against the Spanish. The loss of the last of their native allies dealt a considerable blow to the Spanish invaders. Desperately, they began to offer bounties for native scalps. The apparent idea was to stir up entrepreneurship and thereby eventually eliminate their enemies by the power of pure greed, something the Spanish knew well. This brought many unscrupulous characters into the southwest hoping to gain scalp bounty Spanish gold at the expense of native lives. But the bounties were repeatedly and uselessly increased due to the difficulty of the task. In spite of the large bounties paid, few would brave the combined ferocity of the southwestern tribes. Ultimately, the Spanish were driven out of the region and never again obtained a stronghold in the southwest.