we de a fr fo la ma cl by ga mi mo ( gm ) .
la ma gm ha ma pa to su ve ma ( sv ) , bu wi cl mo by el in of ha - sp .
mo pa ar tr di to ma th ma of co cl , as me in te of ma di .
th re op is co ov th mo pa sp of po se ma - tr an ca be pe ef .
la ma gm ar na su to la pr in mu cl - ti we ap th to ph cl an re - ti on th ti da .
on bo ta , we ob si - ca im ov ba sy tr by ma li es .
fo th pr of ph cl - ca , ou re ar co wi ot st - of - th - ar cl , su as hi co ra el .
mu of th ac - ph mo in au sp re ( as ) is ha by ga mi mo ( gm ) ( 12 ) .
it is wi re th ma li - ho ( ml ) es of gm do no di op th pe of th mo as cl .
it is th of in to de al le pa th op - ti di me of pe ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
su ve ma ( sv ) cu pr st - of - th - ar pe fo ma pr in pa re - ni ( 12 ) .
th si se fo sv is bi cl - ca .
if th po an ne la ex ar li se , sv co th li de bo - ar th ma th ma of co cl th is , th di of th cl ex ( s ) to th se hy .
if th la ex ar no li se - bl , th ke tr ca be us to ma th ex in a no fe sp an to co th ma ma hy in th sp .
al , or in co wi th ke tr , th op fo sv ca be re to
pe ma vi ( i . e . , in la ex ) in th tr da .
fo va re , it ca be ch to ap sv to la pr in mu cl .
fi , to ap - pl th ke tr ( wh is re fo no de bo ) , on mu co a la ke ma wi as ma ro an co as tr ex .
se , th tr co in wi th nu of cl , de to so ex on th wa th bi sv ar ge to mu cl .
in th pa , we de a fr fo la ma cl by gm .
as in sv , ou ap is ba on th id of ma ma .
in , we sh ho to tr la ma gm th ma th ma - bi di of la ex fr th de bo th de co cl .
as in sv , th pa of la ma gm ar tr by a co op th fo on ex ne th de bo .
af de th ba ap in se 12 , we di ex - si fo se tr an ou ha in se 12 an re ex re on ph cl an re in se 12
ou ap ha ce ad ov sv fo la pr in mu cl .
fo ex , th cl in la ma gm ar mo by el in - du no de bo in th in sp op - po to th ha - sp an hy in sv .
be th ke tr is no ne to in no de bo , la ma gm ar mo re tr on ve la an di da se , as ar in as .
la ma mi mo
we be by de la ma gm in th si se wh ea cl is mo by a si el .
we th ex th fr to th ca wh ea cl is mo by on or mo el .
fi , we re ou fr to ot di pa th ha be pr fo tr gm .
c cc + c
la ma cl
th si la ma gm re ea cl of la - be ex by a si el .
ea el is pa - ra by a ve ce <d an a po se or ma <d .
th pa - et ar an to th me an in co ma - tr of mu ga , bu th ar no es in th sa wa .
in ad , a no sc of 12 fo ea cl is us in th sc pr .
le ( c , c , c ) de th ce , or ma , an sc of re ex in cl c .
we la an ex x <d by wh el ha th sm ma di ( pl of ) to it ce :
( ci : 12 ) ( xc ) tc ( xc ) + c
y = ar
th go of le is to es th pa ( c , c , c ) fo ea cl of la ex th op th pe - ma of th de ru .
it is us to co th el pa of ea cl
in a si en po se ma :
( ci : 12 ) zt z ( ci : 12 ) wh
we ca th re th de ru in eq .
( 12 ) as si :
y = ar
he , z <d is th ve cr by ap a un el to x <d .
in th tr re , th go of le is si to es th si ma c < ( d+ ) ( d+ ) fo ea cl of la ex .
we no co th pr of le in mo de .
le ( ( xn , yn ) ) n n= de a se of n la ex dr fr c cl , wh xn <d an yn ( 12 , 12 , .
in la ma gm , we se ma c su th al th ex in th tr se ar co cl by a la ma . e . , si fa fr th de bo th de co cl .
fo th nt ex wi cl la yn , th co ca be wr as : n cz 12 + zt
( 12 ) st th fo ea co cl c 12 yn , th ma - la di ( pl of ) to th ct ce ex th ma di ( pl of ) to th ta ce by a ma of at le on un .
c 12 yn ,
we ad a co lo fu fo tr la ma gm .
an to sv , th lo fu ha tw te , on th pe ma vi of eq .
( 12 ) an on th re th ma c .
le ( f ) + =m ( 12 , f ) de th so - ca hi fu , we ca wr th lo fu fo la ma gm as :
n ( yn c ) zn
th se te re th or ma c wh ap in th d d up le bl of c .
in re - iz se , wh al th ex ca be co cl - si , th se te fa th mi tr ma - la me co wi th un ma co in eq .
th re we of th tw te is co by a hy >1 se by cr - va .
th lo fu in eq .
( 12 ) is a pi li , co fu of th ma c , wh ar fu co to be po se .
it op ca th be fo - la as a pr in se pr ( 12 ) .
su pr ca be ge so by in po al - ri wi po ti gu ( th we im - me a sp - pu so us gr - ba me - od fo th re in th pa ) .
mo im , eq .
( 12 ) ha th de pr th it op is no pl by sp lo mi .
mi mo
we no ex th pr mo to re ea cl by mu el .
th is an to mo ea cl by it ow gm , as op to a si ga .
le cm de th ma fo th mt el in cl c .
th mo st ex is to im th ea ex xn ha no on a cl la yn , bu al a mi co la mn .
th la la ar no pr a pr , bu we ca ge pr la by tt a gm to th ex - pl in ea cl by ml es , th fo ea ex , co th mi co wi th hi po pr un th gm .
gi jo la ( yn , mn ) , we re th la ma cr in eq .
( 12 ) as : n cm 12 + zt
c 12 yn , lo fo fr th fa th lo n yn + lo
( 12 ) st th fo ea co cl c 12 yn , th ma to an ce in cl c is wo th th ma to th ta ce by a ma of at le on un .
th in
m ea mi am .
cl an mi co : p
th lo fu fo mi mo is a si ex - si of eq .
we re th hi lo in th rs te by ( 12 + zt n cm ) + , wh pe - iz vi of th ma in in eq .
th re - la in th se te ch on to su ov di cm tr ( cm ) .
du to th so op ov mi co , th re - in lo fu is no lo pi li in th ma - ce cm ho , it is ea to ve th it re co .
th , ev th op of th mo ge lo fu fo la ma gm is qu tr .
re to pr wo
ou fr di in im as fr pr fr fo di tr of gm ( 12 )
po th cl - co de p ( x| ) ar mo by gm .
on co ap to di tr es - ti th me , co ma , an mi we of th mo th ma th co lo - li n lo p ( yn ) .
su mo ge ou gm th ar es by ma th jo lo - li n lo p ( xn , yn ) .
in co to ou fr , ho , th op of gm pa in th wa is no co .
mo , as a lo fu , th co lo - li do no fo on ex ne th de bo no in th id of a la ma .
th ma di be la ma gm an sv is th cl ar mo by el , ra th ha - sp , an th th ke tr ( wh in ma - ta a la ke ma ) is no re fo no de - ci bo .
of co , on ca ge qu de - ci bo in sv by ch a po ke of de tw , or by ex th ve xn to in pa pr of th or el .
la ma gm di fr su sv by re th qu fo to be po se an by im th su - po of ea cl as so bo re in in sp .
in ad , su sv ca re th la ma gm in se 12 , wi mu el pe cl .
tw fu ex of la ma gm ar im - ta fo pr in as : ha of ou , an se tr .
we de ea ex in is , as fo si th ea cl is mo by a si el - so , as in se 12 .
th ge to th la ma gm de in se 12 is st , as is th ha of ou in co wi se tr .
ha of ou
ma di le al ar se to ou - li .
ma - ba lo fu , in pa , do no cl tr th cl er ra wh th tr da ha ma ou .
we ad a si st to de ou an re th ma ef on le .
ou ar de us ml es of th me an co ma of ea cl .
th es ar us to in ma ml of th fo in eq .
th , fo ea ex xn , we co th ac hi lo in by vi of th la ma co in eq
n 12 me th de in th lo fu - no th hm ti wh an in mi ex xn is co du th co of le .
we as ou wi la va of hm
ou di th le pr by di it fo - cu aw fr mi ex th co ot be ea co .
in pa , co on ba mi - si ou de th co fu pr in eq .
( 12 ) mo th co mu ex th li ju ba on th wr si of a de bo .
to x th si - ua , we re th hi lo te in eq .
( 12 ) in - in ex xn by a mu fa of mi ( 12 , 12 / hm th re eq th lo in by al in mi ex , th re th ma ef of ou .
we co th we fa on fr th ml es an ho th xe du di tr .
in pr , th sc ap to wo ve sa .
se tr
th ma co in eq .
( 12 ) ap to in la ex .
we ca al re th to ap , co , to mu ex kn to sh th sa cl la .
th is us fo as , wh we ca tr on va - le se - me , co of mu co an fr , al of wh be to th sa ph .
sp , le p in th fr in th nt ph se ( xn ) se tr , we re th co in eq .
( 12 ) as : c 12 yn ,
np 12 +
wh th sc on bo si ha be no by th se le .
th se - ba co in eq .
( 12 ) is es we mo if a se - ba de ru is us fo cl ( e . g . , y = ar p cz ) as op to th fr - ba ru in eq
ex re
we ap la ma gm to we - be pr - le in ph cl an re on th ti da ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
we us th st pa of tr - in an te da an th sa de se as in ea wo ( 12 , 12 ) .
al sa se we ex .
we ma th 12 ph la in ti to 12 cl an tr ml an la ma gm fo ea cl .
re we ev - ua by ma th 12 cl to 12 ph to re fu co , as in pr be .
ou fr en co me - fr ce co ( mf ) wi 12 ms wi at a 12 ms fr ra .
we re th rs 12 mf co of ea fr , al wi th rs an se ti de .
gm mo th 12 - di fe ve af th we wh by pc .
ph cl
ph cl is an ar bu in pr - le in as .
on as in th ca th th sp ha
# of mi
12 12 12 12
ta 12
er ra fo ph cl an re on th ti da .
la ma gm ar co to ba gm tr by ml es .
se te fo de .
be co se in ph un , bu th th ph cl la of ea se is un .
th in - pu to th cl is th se of co an fr th sp pr on ph .
we tr la ma gm us th se - ba ma cr in se 12 an co th to ba ( fu co ) gm tr by ml es .
th ba gm we al us to de th pr la fo mi co - po in eq .
( 12 ) an to de an re ou , us eq .
we us th de da se to ch th hy - pa > 12 in eq .
( 12 ) , to tu a un la mo , an to pe ea st of th op pr .
th tr ti on 12 fr ( ro , 12 se ) ra fr 12 - 12 ho de on th mo si .
ta 12 sh th pe of in cl ph - ne se on th ti te se .
la ma gm co an si ou ba gm wi eq nu of mi co .
th be la ma gm al yi a sl lo cl er ra th st - of - th - ar re ( 12 ) ob by hi co ra el ( 12 ) .
ph re
th sa ba an la ma gm we us to bu ph re .
th re we rs - or hi ma mo ( hm ) wi on co - in st pe ph cl .
ba or la ma - gi gm we us in th hm to co th lo pr ( or sc ) of ob fr .
in al hm , we us th de se to op th we of lo tr pr .
ta 12 co th ph er - ro ra of th hm , ob by al th re of vi de wi th gr - tr ph tr - ti ( 12 ) .
ag , th la ma gm le to co - te lo er ra , he co as th su of su - st , de , an in er ra .
we al ob - se , as in pr wo ( 12 ) , th di - tr co - in ph mo ac lo er ra th co - de mo tr by ml es .
we ha sh ho to le gm fo mu cl - ca ba on si pr as la ma cl - ti in sv .
cl ar re by el wh lo , sh , an si ar di tr to ma - mi th ma of co cl , as me in te of ma di .
th re op is co - ve ov th mo pa sp of po se - ni ma .
ap to pr in ph cl an re , we sh th la ma gm le to si im ov ba gm .
wo , we ar in ph re wi co - de ph mo , wh ar kn to re ph er ra ( 12 , 12 ) .
we ar al st sc fo in - in th la ma tr of gm wi se mo su as hm an / or co ra el ( 12 ) .
th wo wa su by ns aw 12
we th a .
gu ( mi re ) an k .
cr ( un - ve of pe ) fo ma us di an
