hi di da th li on or ne a lo di ma ca be de by a co of lo li mo .
su a de , ho , do no pr a gl pa of th ma an im go of un le .
in th pa , we sh ho to le a co of lo li mo th so th mo di pr .
ou lo li mo ar re by a mi of fa an , an th gl co of th mo is ac by ad a re te to th st ma li ob fu .
th re br a de in th mi mo pa sp , fa mo wh in co sy ar al in a co wa .
as a re , th in co ch sm an co as on tr a co pa on th ma wh th pa cr th do of ma di lo mo .
th re ta th fo of a ku - le di an il an un ap of va me : no to pe ap in in in pr mo , bu to le mo us in re in tr on .
co mi pr .
po ve .
pu in ad in ne in pr sy 12 , vo 12 , pa 12 - 12
pr of th 12 an ne in pr sy ( ni ) co , he in br co , ca , fr 12 - 12 de 12
th co pa is av at sc : ht : / / re . up . ed / ci / 12
gl co of lo li mo
sa ro , la k .
sa , an ge e .
hi
de of co sc , un of to
de of co an in sc , un of pe
hi di da th li on or ne a lo di ma ca be de - sc by a co of lo li mo .
su a de , ho , do no pr a gl pa of th ma an im go of un le .
in th pa , we sh ho to le a co of lo li mo th so th mo di pr .
ou lo li mo ar re by a mi of fa an , an th gl co - na of th mo is ac by ad a re te to th st ma li ob fu .
th re br a de in th mi mo pa sp , fa mo wh in co - di sy ar al in a co wa .
as a re , th in co - di ch sm an co as on tr a co pa on th ma wh th pa cr th do of ma di lo mo .
th re ta th fo of a ku - le di an il an un ap of va me : no to pe ap - pr in in in pr mo , bu to le mo us in re in tr on .
12 ma le
co an en of im , ea of wh co a fa ag a ne ba - gr .
ea im ca be re by a po in th hi di ve sp of pi in .
th re , ho , do no ex th st co be pi of th sa im , no do it su ma us op fo re ab fa .
if , fo ex , we se tw im wi fa in wi di lo an th av th pi in , we do no ob an im of a fa at th av lo .
im of fa li on or ne a lo - di , cu ma , an we ca re th mo us by th co on th ma th by pi in - ti .
us th in co , th av of tw fa is an fa wi th av of th lo , po an ex .
to an an ma fa , it is he to im a ma bl bo wi le or di co to th in co on th ma .
gi a se of th le an di , th bo ge an im of a fa .
gi an im of a fa , th bo de th ap se of th le an di .
in th pa , we de a fa ge wa to co su a bo au fr an en of hi - di ve .
we as on th th ex an un ma of lo di an th th re be th ra da an th ma co is lo li an sm va .
th ou me ap no on to im of fa , bu al to ma ot fo of hi di pe an sc da ( e . g . , sp of sp , ro se , ge ex ar , do co ) .
12 lo li mo
th gl st of pe ma ( su as im of fa ) te to be hi no .
fo , de th co gl st , we ca us ch - ac th ma as lo li .
th , to a go ap , th ca be re by co of si mo , ea of wh de a lo li ne ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
fo un le ta , a pr mo th ni ca th in is a mi of fa an ( mf ) ( 12 ) .
th mo is us to de hi di da th li on or ne a lo di ma .
mf pa a jo di ov ob an hi va :
, re th hi di da th di
co ar no di as :
fi , th mo as th th da hi an lo di co ar re
th mo as th da is sa fr di ne on th ma
di an co la va .
th re is a mi of ga di wi pa co ma of th fo :
, lo ma
wh th ob va , ! hi va , " $# % & ' ) ( ) ( * ( + - , , in di ne on th ma an th co hi va , . / 12 ! 12 , re lo di lo co .
wi pr pr 12 , an th wi ea ne , th da lo an no le by li pr pa by ce
th ma da di , o , is ob by su / in ou th mo , tr h th le pr fo mf is to es th ce g of th li pr , as we as th pr pr of sa z , av ov tr ex .
no th th pa sp of th mo ex an in : ta h ba ) , do no ch th ma di - ar ) _^ ) or ma ( \ tr , 12 .
th tr h co to ar ro an
re of th lo co in ea li mo .
th ob fu fo th em al is un by th tr .
th , ma li es in mf do no fa an pa al in , it pr mo wh in - na re ch un as on tr co pa on th ma .
ca we en mo wh lo co sy ar al in a co wa ?
da fr di pa of th ma .
pa es in mf ca be ha by an ex - ma ( em ) al ( 12 ) th at to ma th lo -
12 gl co
su th da li ne a sm ma wi a lo at ( de ) st .
12 in pr ea ne co ha a di pr on it lo co , is th sa fo al
th th ex a si se of gl co wh pa th ma wi lo of ge we ha ma th st as th / eg se of an ab th sh of ea lo ga mo in th ma .
ul tr du to th co in of th mo .
fi 12 : gr mo fo gl co mf .
al - ar un , th af th le - in th a re te .
af le , in ab th gl va ar ma by co po di ,
th gl co . l .
li , da ca ea be ge by sa fr l .
al th op ar pa - th co di , d / ez
ev .
fu , to a go ap , th gl co ca be re to th lo co of di ne ( in th re of va ) by li
of th ma ? in , if a da po be to ov ne , th th gl co co fr th lo co sy , gi by eq .
( 12 ) , sh ag .
we ca fo th gl co of di lo mo by tr th
? pr a gl pa
wh do it me to sa th th co co as un va an in th in th pr mo :
( he we po a de re be lo an gl co , al it is po to ad no to th ma as we . ) th gl co mf is re - re by th gr mo in fi .
we ca ap to it co in to ma ot us in .
in pa :
no - ne pr , th th po di fo th gl co of
ar wh di mi co gi ri to in gl co .
wh is di , a pe wh en co - si ca be ea in in th le al .
we in a fa of
< ex a da po
to en th cr of ag , we ne to pe mo wh
' gi by eq .
( 12 ) ar mu , si mu mo on
' , to
no , if tw or mo mi co , th da po , as in by eq .
( 12 ) , sh be ne id : th is ,
di pe mu of un di ov bo an , an en th tr po , be cl to so me ,
de th id fu , we in a ne ob fu fo un le - in in mf .
th ne ob fu in a re to en th gl co of lo mo :
' , of th fa .
th rs te in th ob fu co th lo - pr of th da .
th se te co a su of ku - le ( kl ) di th ar de to
by ex th po fa an ab re ro in th lo co sy .
( in pr , th , it ma be ea to op th ob fu wi co th ma to be of th fo . ) in th ex re be , we ha fu re th to
12 lo of ge , th ma ca be ta to be sy an po - de , be di .
to , th , th co ma an ve h ac fo an ax - al
sc an un tr be th gl an lo co sy .
pe mf wh po di ov gl co ar no un .
th tw go of de es an ma le in mf ar pu by at
af li ) ar ex in or to ac su ag .
in wh fo
th mo co wa to pa th fa of un di is a fa - iz fo in a ga de an a mu :
to ba th te in th ob fu .
th fa co th tr be ( on st in ( wh do no de mo an gl co : as we ha se
% ar fu op is po .
( 12 ) fa ov an no th th di ac to th fa of mo co co gi th da po th ar ex th co we wi to im on th po it of le , th me de se fo ea da po , eq .
( 12 ) : th am to co th un di ,
th tr po di ,
at ea
, be ma to
, im th is in of th mi is ga , an th un .
so as to ma th ob fu in
, an mi we
, co ma
12 le al
la va mo ar tr es by ma li or ba me wh ob fu do no re th in of th in re - re .
no ho th go of de mo us in re ha ch th le pr in a fu wa .
no we ha ad co -
ti pa of we al ha au pa fo ea da po
th th ta di , th pa , as we as th mf mo pa
to st to th lo co sy in a sm wa an to le in re ea co by th lo - to - gl ma in eq
th mu al be le fr ex .
al , , mu be ch
, an mi we
, co ma -
op of th ob fu in eq .
( 12 ) is re of so - ca va me fo ap le ( 12 ) .
in th me , an ap to an ex ( bu in ) po di is tt by mi a kl di be th tw di .
th au pa of th ap di ar kn as va pa .
ou ob fu il an un ap of su va me : no to pe ap in in in pr mo , bu to le mo us in re in tr on .
we in th to re th mu di
un an fa di
th mo pa sp an fa lo li mo th ca be gl al .
pe th kl di be th di li a de in
12 co an op th ob fu
ev th ob fu in eq .
( 12 ) re a su an in ov th la va - ab of th mo .
th op ar si by re th ob fu as :
th fa fo of th di
re su an in .
th na re is a si fo in te of en
' ma it st to pe th
th da po :
as wi th
an th lo pr ma
wh we ha in si no fo th ve di
it ma th ob fu by co as no le to a le al of th sa ge st as em .
ma th ob fu , eq .
( 12 ) , wi re to th re pa
th m - st co of ma th ob fu , eq .
( 12 ) , wi re to th ge mo pa .
le us de th up pa es by
at th xe po eq .
th ob fu is co in to tr re th de , af so th eq ab we fu co th gl co to ha me ze an un va in ea di .
th co ar en wi ch th va of th ob fu by si tr th
% ) le to th xe po eq :
, ( an su to th co
th eq ca be so by it wi
no th
on ne to be co on be it -
ap on in th fo
an re of an re th di ma
an th va
, th m - st up fo th rs th
, th co
sa an al ri eq wh wh ma be ex fo fu
at th op , th co we ap in in th pr va of
ca be so by it th up sh ab .
( su eq ca al be so by mu mo so me we kn in th en co
le
th re up , to be pe in th or sh , ar gi in te of up
ma bu is fa in ou di im . )
of th ar :
fi 12 : gl co of lo li - ea mo .
( le ) a mo tr us ma - mu li , wi th ar in th di of in fo ea fa an lo co sy .
( ri ) a co mo ar in th di in th da sp co to in th gl
el sh th on st de co - to of th de of ea an .
co as in by th al
we ha te ou mo on si sy ma wh st is kn as we as on co of im of ha di an fa .
fi 12 il th ba co of co , as ac by ou le ru .
in th co mo , th gl co al po in th sa di al th da ma , as de
we al ap th al to co of im of ha di an of fa .
mu li , th de is we ca bu ea lo la va ha a ra or al th ma .
th mf ha 12 lo mo an th gl co we tw di .
af tr , th co mf ha le a sm , co ma fr th pl to im of di or of fa .
th al us bo to in a tw - di lo gi
in th mo tr wi ma - by th co of th tr th re of wa an un ve of ra 12 - bi gr pi in % di an 12 fo th fo ea im ( of di 12 fo th 12 an to ge ne im fr an po in th pl an im by co .
( pr wh we wa fr th ma bo . ) in ge , bo ( i . e .
th me of th un di th in gl co fr th ge mo , cr by ev th me of al st li ha ca ti / sh an id an re th as th tw ax of th
pa in th gl co sp .
in th ca of di , it se as th ou mo th ca of th fa th ax se to ca po an ex .
( fo th fa , th na
of th co di ha th fo of a mi of ga .
fi 12 sh
of th tr po af th la it of tr as we as ex of ne im
sp wa ro by ha to al in di wi th co ax . )
as wi al em al , th co mf le pr is su to lo - ca op .
cr to th su of ou ex is a go in , wh wa
pr by th lo li em al ( 12 ) .
we cl
be co pr by ll an to a sm va an tr un co ( ty 12 - 12 it ) .
th we pr wi tr us th fu em eq , ag un co ( us 12 - 12 mo it ) .
no , ho , th ll an ot em al su as is ( 12 ) ar th un , so th ov pr , in th in ph , is st un .
eq to th em -
mi mo pr a si wa to ap th de of hi di da th li on or ne a lo di ma .
ho , th hi re do no ma ex th re be di da ve .
in th pa , we ha sh ho to le gl co th ca ac as an en in , so th ot pa of a le sy do no ne to in wi th in co - ne of a mi .
th sh im ge as we as fa th pr an ex of in wh th mo ar in in a la ( pe
di gl pa - et of ma of di an fa .
ea er by th un al po in ea tr it at en of le .
th im st on th bo ar no fr th tr se bu ar ge fr th mo it an re th me of th pr
th in me
co op ci ( sa al th st li in th gl sp ) .
l at th
th mo pr bo a tw de - of - fr ge - er fo co im as we as a po / sl re sy -
fo th ha di , th tr se co of 12 ex of th di 12 ( sh as cr ab ) mi wi 12 ex - am of 12 ( sh as tr ) .
th di ar fr th ni da , di - it at 12 pi .
fo th fa , we us 12 im - ag of a si pe wi va po an ex - si ta fr co - ti fr of a vi di - ti at 12 pi .
br - da fr ki pr th fa da .
hi ) ar fo pr re .
tw va of ou pu un pr ar po .
th rs is to us an em - be al ( su as ll or is ) no on as an in st bu to pr cl va fo th gl co .
wh th su ap ma wo in pr , un co ma cl th ob fu th is be op -
fi 12 : a si in wh an un - co mi - tu mo to do de es be po - co .
no ha ca on of th lo de mo - el to or or to th ma .
in gl co - na le , th is an ad pr to al wi ne mo wh wo fo th lo mo to li in th co su .
mi , wh un th go of ma le an de es .
an va is to tr an un mi mo ( su as a mf ) us a tr ma li ob fu an th to po - co it pa by ap lo re / ro an tr to cr gl co .
as il in gu 12 , ho , th tw - st pr ca go aw be of no in th or tr se .
wh bo de es an co ar op si th is ex pr fo lo ex to t th gl st of th ma .
ou wo ca be vi as a sy of tw lo li of re in un in th rs ar ef at le th gl st of no ma ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) ; in th se ar ef at de pr gr mo fo re - so un un ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
ou wo pr to mo th gl co on ma as la va , th at to co th re ad of bo fr .
it di fr em by pr a fu pr mo va aw fr th tr se , an fr wo in ge to ma ( 12 ) by no re a un di gr of th la sp .
mo , by ex th us of mi mo , it fu de an ar th ha al pr qu po an en po in ap of st le .
we th mi re fo sh hi un wo ( at th un of to ) on co - in mi , an zo gh , pe da , ja ve an tw an re fo he co an co .
