we inv how to lea a ker mat for hig dim dat tha lie on or nea a low dim man .
not tha the ker mat imp map the dat int a non fea spa , we sho how to dis a map tha unf the und man fro whi the dat was sam .
the ker mat is con by max the var in fea spa sub to loc con tha pre the ang and dis bet nea nei .
the mai opt inv an ins of sem pro - - - a fun dif com tha pre alg for man lea , suc as iso and loc lin emb .
the opt ker per bet tha pol and gau ker for pro in man lea , but wor for pro in lar mar cla .
we exp the res in ter of the geo pro of dif ker and com on var int of oth man lea alg as ker met .
ker , mac lea
pro of the twe fir int con on mac lea ( icm 123 ) , hel 123 - 123 jul 123 , ban , alb , can .
thi con pap is ava at sch : htt : / / rep . upe . edu / cis / 123
lea a ker mat for non dim red
kil q .
wei law k .
sau dep of com and inf sci , uni of pen , phi , pa 123 , usa
we inv how to lea a ker mat for hig dim dat tha lie on or nea a low dim man .
not tha the ker mat imp map the dat int a non fea spa , we sho how to dis a map tha unf the un - der man fro whi the dat was sam .
the ker mat is con by max the var in fea spa sub to loc con tha pre the ang and dis bet nea nei - bor .
the mai opt inv an in - sta of sem pro fun - dam die com tha pre - vio alg for man lea , suc as iso and loc lin emb .
the opt ker per bet tha pol - nom and gau ker for pro in man lea , but wor for pro in lar mar cla .
we exp the res in ter of the geo pro of die ker and com on var int of oth man lea al - gor as ker met .
ker met ( sch & smo , 123 ) hav pro to be ext pow in man are of ma - chi lea .
the so - cal ker tri is by now wid app : a can alg ( e . g . , the lin per , pri com ana ) is re - for in ter of gra mat , the gen - ize to non pro by sub a ker fun for the inn pro .
wel bey thi fa - mil rec , how , the eld con to dev
app in pro of the 123 st int con - enc on mac lea , ban , can , 123
cop 123 by the aut .
as res dev nov typ of ker , exp - ing pri kno in par dom and ins fro com lea the and con op - ind , muc wor rev aro the sim que : how to cho the ker ? the an - swe are div , ree the tre var of pro to whi ker met hav bee app .
ker bas on str mat ( lod et al . , 123 ) and wei tra ( cor et al . , 123 ) hav bee pro for pro in bio , tex , and spe pro .
oth spe ker hav bee con for pro in pat rec inv sym and inv ( bur , 123 ) .
mos rec , ker mat hav bee lea by sem pro for lar mar cla - tio ( gra , 123 lan et al . , 123 ) .
in thi pap , we rev the pro of non dim red and its sol by ker pri com ana ( pca ) ( sch et al . , 123 ) .
our spe int lie in the app of ker pca to hig dim dat who bas mod of var are des by a low dim man .
the goa of non dim red - tio in the app is to dis the und - ing man ( ten et al . , 123 row & sau , 123 ) .
for pro of thi nat , we sho how to lea a ker mat who imp map int fea - tur spa unf the man fro whi the dat was sam .
the mai opt of our alg inv an ins of sem pro , but unl ear wor in lea ker mat ( gra - pel , 123 lan et al . , 123 ) , the set her is the pro of man lea has rec at - tra a gre dea of att ( ten et al . , 123 row & sau , 123 bel & niy , 123 sau & row , 123 ) , and a num of aut ( ben - gio et al . , 123 ham et al . , 123 ) hav dev con bet man lea alg and ker pca .
in con to pre wor , how ,
our pap doe not ser to rei pre - exi alg suc as iso and loc lin emb - din as ins of ker pca .
ins , we pro a nov opt ( bas on sem pro - min ) tha bri the lit on ker met and man lea in a rat die way .
the alg we des can be vie fro sev com - ple per .
thi pap foc mai on its int as a ker met , whi a com - pan pap ( wei & sau , 123 ) foc on its app to the uns lea of ima
ker pca
sch , smo , and mul ( 123 ) int ker - nel pca as a non gen of pca ( jol - lie , 123 ) .
the gen is obt by map the ori inp int a hig ( and pos in - nit ) dim fea spa f bef ext the pri com .
in par , con inp x12 , .
, xn rd and fea ( x12 ) , .
, ( xn ) f com by som map : rd f .
ker pca is bas on the ins tha the pri com - pon in f can be com for map ( x ) tha are onl imp den by spe the inn pro in fea spa is , the ker fun k ( x , y ) = ( x ) ( y ) .
ker pca can be use to obt low dim rep of hig dim inp .
for thi , it suc to com the dom eig of the ker mat kij = ( xi ) ( xj ) .
the ker mat can be exp in ter of its eig and .
ass the eig are sor fro lar to sma , the d - dim emb tha bes pre inn pro -
uct in fea spa is obt by map the inp xir to the vec yi = ( the mai fre in ker pca lie in cho the ker fun k ( x , y ) or oth spe the ker mat kij .
som wid use ker are the lin , pol and gau ker , giv by :
eig v as k =p
123 ,
k ( x , y ) = x y , k ( x , y ) = ( 123 + x y ) p , k ( x , y ) = e
the lin ker sim ide the fea spa wit the inp spa .
imp , the pol ker map the inp int a fea spa of dim - ity o ( dp ) , whi the gau ker map the inp ont the sur of an inn - dim sph .
the dom eig of the ker mat kij
mea the var alo the pri com in fea spa , pro tha the fea are cen - ter on the ori .
the fea can alw be cen - ter by sub out the mea , by the tra ( xi ) ( xi ) 123 j ( xj ) .
whe the map ( x ) is onl imp spe by the ker fun , the cen tra can be app dir to the ker mat .
in par , re - com the inn pro kij = ( xi ) ( xj ) fro the cen fea giv :
kij kij 123
for a cen ker mat , the rel wei of the lea d eig , obt by div the sum by the tra , mea the rel var cap - tur by the lea d eig .
whe thi rat is nea uni , the dat can be vie as inh a d - dim sub of the fea spa , or equ - ale , a d - dim man of the inp spa .
lea the ker mat
the cho of the ker pla an imp rol in ker - nel pca , in tha die ker are bou to rev ( or con ) die typ of low dim str - tur .
in thi sec , we sho how to lea a ker mat tha rev whe hig dim inp lie on or nea a low dim man .
as in ear wor on sup vec mac ( svm ) ( gra , 123 lan et al . , 123 ) , we wil cas the pro - lem of lea the ker mat as an ins of sem pro .
the sim end the , how , as the opt cri for non di - men red die sub fro the cri for lar mar cla .
we des the con on the opt in sec 123 , the obj fun in sec 123 , and the opt its in sec 123 .
the ker mat k is con by thr cri .
the rst is sem den , a con re - qui to int the ker mat as sto the inn pro of vec in a hil spa .
we thu con the opt ove k to the con of sym - met mat wit non eig .
tho not a lin con , the con of sem de - nit mat den a con dom for the ove the sec con is tha the ker mat sto
the inn pro of fea tha are cen on the
( xi ) = 123
as des in sec 123 , thi con ena us to int the eig of the ker mat as mea of var alo pri com in fea spa .
( 123 ) can be exp in ter of the ker mat as :
( xi ) ( xj ) = x
not tha thi is a lin con on the ele of the ker mat , thu pre the con of the dom of opt .
the nal con on the ker mat ree our goa for non dim red .
in par - ula , we are int in the set whe the inp lie on or nea a low dim man , and the goa of ker pca are to det the dim of thi und man and dis its mod of var - ity .
we ima tha thi man is iso to an ope con sub of euc spa ( ten et al . , 123 don & gri , 123 ) , and the pro - lem of lea the ker mat is to dis how the inn pro bet inp tra und thi map .
an iso is a smo inv map - pin tha loo loc lik a rot plu tra , thu pre loc ( and hen geo ) dis .
thu , in our app of ker pca to man lea , the nal con we imp on the ker mat are to res the ( imp den ) map bet inp and fea fro ful gen non - ear tra to the spe cla of iso .
how is thi don ? we beg by ext the no - tio of iso to dis sam man , in inp ( x12 , .
, xn ) and fea - par to set of tur ( ( x12 ) , .
, ( xn ) ) in one - to - one cor - den .
let the nn bin mat ind a nei - bor rel on bot set , suc tha we reg xj as a nei of xi if and onl if ij =12 ( and sim , for ( xj ) and ( xi ) ) .
we wil say tha the inp xi and fea ( xi ) are loc iso und the nei rel if for eve poi xi , the ex - ist a rot and tra tha map xi and its nei pre ont ( xi ) and its nei .
the abo den tra nat int var
123 , two rie man are sai to be iso - met if the is a die suc tha the met on one pul bac to the met on the oth .
set of lin con on the ele of the ker - nel mat kij .
not tha the loc iso bet nei wil exi if and onl if the dis and ang bet poi and the nei are pre - ser .
thu , whe bot xj and xk are nei of xi ( tha is , iji = 123 ) , for loc iso we mus ( ( xi ) ( xj ) ) ( ( xi ) ( xk ) ) = ( xix ) ( xix ) .
( 123 ) is suc for loc iso bec the tri - ang for by any poi and its nei is det - min up to rot and tra by spe the len of two sid and the ang bet the .
in fac , suc a tri is sim det by spe - fyi the len of all its sid .
thu , we can als say tha the inp and fea are loc iso un - der if whe xi and xj are the nei ( tha is , ij = 123 ) or are com nei of ano inp ( tha is , ( t ) ij >12 ) , we hav :
| ( xi ) ( xj ) |12 = |xi .
thi is an equ cha of loc iso - try as eq .
( 123 ) , but exp onl in ter of pai dis .
fin , we can exp the con pur in ter of dot pro .
let gij = xix de - not the gra mat of the inp , and rec tha the ker mat kij = ( xi ) ( xj ) rep the gra mat of the fea .
the eq .
( 123 ) can be wri as :
kii = gii .
( 123 ) con how the inn pro bet nea inp are all to tra und a lo - cal iso map .
we imp the con to ens tha the map den ( imp ) by the ker mat is an iso .
not tha the con - str are als lin in the ele of the ker mat , thu pre the con of the dom the sim cho for nei is to let ij in - dic whe inp xj is one of the k nea nei - bor of inp xi com usi euc dis .
in thi cas , eq .
( 123 ) spe o ( n k12 ) con tha x the dis bet eac poi and its nea nei , as wel as the pai dis bet nea nei .
pro tha k ( cid : 123 ) n , how , the ker mat is unl to be ful spe by the con sin it con o ( n 123 ) ele .
obj fun
in the pre sec , we sho how to res the ker mat so tha the fea ( xi ) cou be re - gar as ima of a loc iso map
goa of non dim red is to dis - cov the par iso map tha unf the und man of inp int a euc spa of its int dim .
thi int dim may be muc low tha the ext - sic dim of the inp spa .
to unf the man , we nee to con an obj fun ove loc iso ker mat tha fav thi typ of dim red .
to thi end , ima eac inp xi as a ste bal con - nec to its k nea nei by rig rod .
( for sim , we ass tha the gra for thi way is ful con if not , the eac con com - pon of the gra sho be ana sep . ) the eec of the rig rod is to loc the nei - hoo in pla , xin the dis and ang bet nea nei .
the lat of ste bal for in thi way can be vie as a dis ver of the und man .
now ima tha we pul the ste bal as far apa as pos , rec the - nal pos by ( xi ) .
the dis man wil rem con to the con imp by the rig rod it wil als att , inc the var cap by its lea pri com .
( for a con ana , ima pul on the end of a str a str wit any sla in it occ at lea two dim , whe a tau , ful ext str occ jus one . ) we can for thi int as an opt ove sem den mat .
the con im - pos by the rig rod are , in fac , pre the con - str imp by eq .
an obj fun tha mea the pai dis bet ste bal is
it is eas to see tha thi fun is bou abo due to the con on dis bet nei imp by the rig rod .
sup the dis be - twe any two nei is bou by som max dis .
pro the gra is con , the for any two poi , the exi a pat alo the gra of dis at mos n , whi ( by the tri in - equ ) pro an upp bou on the euc dis bet the poi tha app in eq .
thi res in an upp bou on the obj fun - tio of ord o ( n 123 123 ) .
( 123 ) can be exp in ter of the ele of the ker mat by exp the rig han sid :
( kii + kjj 123 ) = tr ( k ) .
the las ste in eq .
( 123 ) fol fro the cen con - str in eq .
thu the obj fun for the opt is sim the tra of the ker mat .
max the tra als cor to max the var in fea spa .
sem emb ( sde )
the con and obj fun fro the pre - vio sec den an ins of sem pro - gra ( sdp ) ( van & boy , 123 ) .
spe , the goa is to opt a lin fun of the ele in a sem den mat sub - jec to lin equ con .
col the con - str and obj fun , we hav the fol
max : tr ( k ) sub to : 123
k ( cid : 123 ) 123
for all i , j suc tha ij =12 or ( cid : 123 ) t ( cid : 123 )
kii = gii
ij kij = 123
the opt is con and doe not sue fro loc opt .
the are sev gen - pur too - box and pol - tim sol ava for pro - lem in sem pro .
the res in thi pap wer obt usi the sed too - box ( stu , 123 ) in mat .
onc the ker ma - tri is com , a non emb can be ob - tai fro its lea eig , as des in sec 123
bec the ker mat in thi app are opt by sem pro , we wil re - fer to thi par for of ker pca as sem - nit emb ( sde ) .
exp res
exp wer per on sev dat set to eva the lea alg des in sec 123
tho the sde ker wer exp opt for pro in man lea , we als eva the per for lar mar cla .
non dim red
we per ker pca wit lin , pol , gau , and sde ker on dat set whe we kne or sus tha the hig dim inp wer sam fro a low dim man .
whe nec - ess , ker mat wer cen bef com pri com , as in eq
fig 123
top : res of sde app to n = 123 in - put sam fro a swi rol ( top lef ) .
the inp had d = 123 dim , of whi 123 wer lle wit sma amo of noi ( not sho ) .
the two dim plo sho the emb fro ker pca wit the sde ker - nel .
bot : eig of die ker mat , nor - mal by the tra .
onl the eig fro sde ind the cor int dim ( d = 123 ) of the
in the rst exp , the inp wer sam fro a thr dim swi rol , a dat set com - mon use to eva alg in man lea - ing ( ten et al . , 123 ) .
123 sho the ori - ina inp ( top lef ) , the emb dis by sde wit k =12 nea nei ( top rig ) , and the eig spe fro sev die ker mat - ces ( bot ) .
the col cod of the emb re - vea tha the swi rol has bee suc unr - ele .
not tha the ker mat lea by sde has two dom eig , ind the cor un - der dim of the swi rol , whe the eig of oth ker mat fai to rev thi str .
in par , the lin ker mat has thr dom eig , ree the ext di - men of the swi rol , whi the eig of the pol ( p = 123 ) and gau ( = 123 ) ker mat ind tha the var of the fea ( xi ) are spr acr a far gre num of dim tha the ori inp xi .
the sec exp was per on a dat set con of n = 123 col ima of a tea vie fro die ang in the pla .
wit a res of
123 all the dat set in thi sec , we set the wid par of the gau ker to the est sta - dar dev wit nei of siz k = 123 , thu ree the sam len sca use in sde .
fig 123
res of sde app to n = 123 ima of a tea vie fro die ang in the pla , und a ful 123 deg of rot .
the ima wer rep by inp in a d = 123 dim vec spa .
sde fai rep the 123 deg of rot by a cir .
the eig of die ker mat are als sho , nor by the tra .
123 and thr byt of col inf per pix , the ima wer rep as poi in a d = 123 dim vec spa .
tho ver hig dim - sio , the ima in thi dat set are eec pa - ram by a sin deg of fre , the ang of rot .
the low dim emb of the ima by sde and the eig spe of dif - fer ker mat are sho in fig .
the ker mat lea by sde ( wit k =12 nea nei ) con the var of the fea spa in two dim and map the ima to a cir , a hig int rep of the ful 123 deg of rot - tio .
by con , the lin , pol ( p = 123 ) , and gau ( = 123 ) ker mat hav eig spe tha do not ree the low int dim - sio of the dat set .
why doe ker pca wit the gau ker per - for so die on the dat set whe its wid par ree the sam len sca as nei - hoo in sde ? not tha the gau ker com - put a nea zer inn pro ( kij 123 ) in fea - tur spa for inp xi and xj tha do not bel to
inp ( nor by tra ) sde ker ! ! " " ! " # " ! $ " " $ " 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 ( nor by tra ) sde ker fig 123
emb fro ker pca wit the gau ker on the swi rol and tea dat set in fig .
123 and 123
the rst thr pri com are sho .
in bot cas , die pat of the man are map to ort par of fea spa .
the sam or clo ove nei .
it fol - low fro the inn pro tha the fea vec ( xi ) and ( xj ) mus be nea ort .
as a re - sul , the die pat of the man are map int ort reg of the fea spa : see fig .
thu , rat tha unf the man , the gau - sia ker lea to an emb who dim - ity is equ to the num of non - ove pat of len sca .
thi exp the gen poo per - for of the gau ker for man lea ( as wel as its gen goo per for lar mar cla , dis in sec 123 ) .
ano exp on the dat set of tea ima was per by res the ang of rot to 123 deg .
the res are sho in fig .
int - ing , in thi cas , the eig of the lin , pol - nom , and gau ker mat are not qua - tiv die .
by con , the sde ker mat now has onl one dom eig , ind tha the var for thi sub of ima is con by a sin ( non - cyc ) deg of fre .
as a nal exp , we com the per of the die ker on a rea - wor dat set des by an und man .
the dat set ( hul , 123 ) con of n =12 gra ima at 123 res - tio of han two and thr ( in rou equ pro ) .
in thi dat set , it is pos to nd a rel - ati smo mor bet any pai of ima , and a rel sma num of deg of fre des the pos mod of var ( e . g .
wri - ing sty for han dig ) .
fig 123 sho the res .
not tha the ker mat lea by sde con the var in a sig few num - ber of dim , sug it has con a mor
fig 123
res of ker pca app to n = 123 ima of a tea vie fro die ang in the pla , und 123 deg of rot .
the eig of die ker mat are sho , nor by the tra .
the one dim emb fro sde is als sho .
app fea map for non dim
lar mar cla
we als eva the use of sde ker mat for lar mar cla by svm .
sev tra and tes set for pro in bin cla wer cre fro the usp dat set of han dig - its ( hul , 123 ) .
eac tra and tes set had 123 and 123 exa , res .
for eac exp , the sde ker mat wer lea ( usi k = 123 nea nei ) on the com tra and tes dat set , ign the tar lab .
the res wer com to tho obt fro lin , pol ( p = 123 ) , and gau ( = 123 ) ker .
tab 123 sho tha the sde ker per qui poo in thi cap , eve wor tha the lin ker .
123 oer an exp of thi poo per .
the sde ker can onl be exp to per wel for lar mar cla if the dec bou - ary on the unf man is app lin .
the is no a pri rea , how , to exp thi typ of lin sep .
the exa in fig .
123 sho a par bin lab of inp on the swi rol for whi the dec bou is muc sim in the inp spa tha on the unf man - fol .
a sim eec see to be occ in the lar mar cla of han dig .
thu , the str of sde for non dim red is gen a wea for lar mar cla .
by con , the pol and gau ker lea to mor pow cla pre bec the map inp to hig dim reg of fea spa .
rel and ong wor
sde can be vie as an uns cou to the wor of gra ( 123 ) and lan et al ( 123 ) , who pro lea ker mat by sem
bda fig 123
res of ker pca app to n = 123 ima of han dig .
the eig of die ker mat are sho , nor by the tra .
dig lin pol gau 123 vs 123 123 vs 123 123 vs 123 123 vs 123
tab 123
per err rat for svm cla usi die ker on tes set of han dig .
eac lin rep the ave of 123 exp wit die 123 / 123 spl of tra and tes dat .
her , the sde ker per muc wor tha the oth ker .
fig 123
the twe eig of fro iso and sde on the dat set of tea ima and han dig .
not tha the sim mat con by iso hav neg eig .
pro for lar mar cla .
the ker - nel mat lea by sde die fro tho usu emp in svm , in tha the aim to map inp int an ( eec ) low dim fea spa .
thi exp bot our pos res in non dim - sio red ( sec 123 ) , as wel as our neg res in lar mar cla ( sec 123 ) .
sde can als be vie as an alt to man - fol lea alg suc as iso ( ten et al . , 123 ) , loc lin emb ( lle ) ( row & sau , 123 sau & row , 123 ) , hes lle ( hll ) ( don & gri , 123 ) , and lap eig ( bel & niy , 123 ) .
all the al - gor sha a sim str , cre a gra bas on nea nei , com an n n ma - tri fro geo pro of the inp , and con - str an emb fro the eig wit the lar or sma non eig .
a mor det dis of die bet the alg -
lin sep inp ( in bla ver fig 123
lef : whi ) sam fro a a swi rol .
rig : unf the man lea to a mor com dec bou .
rit is giv in a com pap ( wei & sau , 123 ) .
her , we com mai on the var int as ker met ( ham et al . , 123 ) .
in gen , the oth met giv ris to mat who geo pro as ker are les rob or not as wel und .
for exa , unl sde , the sim mat con by iso fro nit dat set can hav neg eig .
in som cas , mor , the neg eig can be app - ble in mag to the dom pos one : see fig .
unl bot sde and iso , lle and hll con mat who bot eig yie low dim emb to int the mat as ker , the eig mus be ipp , eit by inv the mat its or by sub it fro a lar mul of the ide mat .
mor , it doe not app tha the eig can be use to est the int dim of und man ( sau & row , 123 ) .
a ker can be de - riv fro the dis lap by not its rol in the hea diu equ , but the int gai fro thi ana , in ter of diu tim thr a net , doe not rel dir to the geo pro of the ker mat .
sde sta apa fro the met in its exp con of a sem den ker mat tha pre the geo pro of the inp up to loc iso and who eig ind the dim of the und man .
we are pur man dir in ong wor .
the rst is to dev fas and pot dis - tri ( bis & ye , 123 ) met for sol the
123 ! 123 . 123 . 123 ! 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 ins of sem pro in sde and for out - of - sam ext ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
thu far we hav bee usi gen sol wit a rel hig tim com , rel on too tha do not exp any spe str in our pro .
we are als inv man var on the obj fun and con in sde exa , to al - low som sla in the pre of loc dis and ang , or to lea emb ont sph .
fi - nal , we are per mor ext com wit oth met in non dim red - tio .
not sur , per , all the dir re - ect a mor gen tre tow the con of res in ker met and man lea .
the aut are gra to s .
boy and y .
ye ( sta - for ) for use dis of sem pro - min and to the ano rev for man hel
