we dev a fra for lar mar cla by gau mix mod ( gmm ) .
lar mar gmm hav man par to sup vec mac ( svm ) , but wit cla mod by ell ins of hal - spa .
mod par are tra dis to max the mar of cor cla , as mea in ter of mah dis .
the req opt is con ove the mod par spa of pos sem ma - tri and can be per efc .
lar mar gmm are nat sui to lar pro in mul cla - tio we app the to pho cla and rec - tio on the tim dat .
on bot tas , we obt sig - can imp ove bas sys tra by max lik est .
for the pro of pho cla - cat , our res are com wit oth sta - of - the - art cla , suc as hid con ran eld .
muc of the aco - pho mod in aut spe rec ( asr ) is han by gau mix mod ( gmm ) ( 123 ) .
it is wid rec tha max lik - hoo ( ml ) est of gmm doe not dir opt the per of the mod as cla .
it is the of int to dev alt lea par tha op - tim dis mea of per ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
sup vec mac ( svm ) cur pro sta - of - the - art per for man pro in pat rec - nit ( 123 ) .
the sim set for svm is bin cla - cat .
if the pos and neg lab exa are lin sep , svm com the lin dec bou - ary tha max the mar of cor cla tha is , the dis of the clo exa ( s ) to the sep hyp .
if the lab exa are not lin sep - ble , the ker tri can be use to map the exa int a non fea spa and to com the max mar hyp in thi spa .
alt , or in con wit the ker tri , the opt for svm can be rel to
per mar vio ( i . e . , inc lab exa ) in the tra dat .
for var rea , it can be cha to app svm to lar pro in mul cla .
fir , to ap - ply the ker tri ( whi is req for non dec bou ) , one mus con a lar ker mat wit as man row and col as tra exa .
sec , the tra com inc wit the num of cla , dep to som ext on the way tha bin svm are gen to mul cla .
in thi pap , we dev a fra for lar mar cla by gmm .
as in svm , our app is bas on the ide of mar max .
int , we sho how to tra lar mar gmm tha max the mah - bis dis of lab exa fro the dec bou tha den com cla .
as in svm , the par of lar mar gmm are tra by a con opt tha foc on exa nea the dec bou .
aft dev the bas app in sec 123 , we dis ext - sio for seg tra and out han in sec 123 and rep exp res on pho cla and rec in sec 123
our app has cer adv ove svm for lar pro in mul cla .
for exa , the cla in lar mar gmm are mod by ell in - duc non dec bou in the inp spa op - pos to the hal - spa and hyp in svm .
bec the ker tri is not nec to ind non dec bou , lar mar gmm are mor rea tra on ver lar and dif dat set , as ari in asr .
lar mar mix mod
we beg by des lar mar gmm in the sim set whe eac cla is mod by a sin ell .
we the ext thi fra to the cas whe eac cla is mod by one or mor ell .
fin , we rel our fra to oth dis par tha hav bee pro for tra gmm .
c cc + c
lar mar cla
the sim lar mar gmm rep eac cla of la - bel exa by a sin ell .
eac ell is pa - ram by a vec cen <d and a pos sem ori mat <dd .
the par - ete are ana to the mea and inv cov ma - tri of mul gau , but the are not est in the sam way .
in add , a non sca off 123 for eac cla is use in the sco pro .
let ( c , c , c ) den the cen , ori mat , and sca off rep exa in cla c .
we lab an exa x <d by whi ell has the sma mah dis ( plu off ) to its cen :
( cid : 123 ) ( xc ) tc ( xc ) + c
y = arg
the goa of lea is to est the par ( c , c , c ) for eac cla of lab exa tha opt the per - man of thi dec rul .
it is use to col the ell par of eac cla
in a sin enl pos sem mat :
( cid : 123 ) ztc z ( cid : 123 ) whe
we can the rew the dec rul in eq .
( 123 ) as sim :
y = arg
her , z <d+ is the vec cre by app a uni ele to x <d .
in thi tra rep , the goa of lea is sim to est the sin mat c < ( d+1 ) ( d+1 ) for eac cla of lab exa .
we now con the pro of lea in mor det .
let ( ( xn , yn ) ) n n=1 den a set of n lab exa dra fro c cla , whe xn <d and yn ( 123 , 123 , .
in lar mar gmm , we see mat c suc tha all the exa in the tra set are cor cla by a lar mar . e . , sit far fro the dec bou tha den com cla .
for the nth exa wit cla lab yn , thi con can be wri as : n czn 123 + zt
( 123 ) sta tha for eac com cla c 123 yn , the mah - lan dis ( plu off ) to the cth cen exc the mah dis ( plu off ) to the tar cen by a mar of at lea one uni .
c 123 yn ,
we ado a con los fun for tra lar mar gmm .
ana to svm , the los fun has two ter , one tha pen mar vio of eq .
( 123 ) and one tha reg the mat c .
let ( f ) + =ma ( 123 , f ) den the so - cal hin fun , we can wri the los fun for lar mar gmm as :
n ( yn c ) zn
the sec ter reg the ori mat c whi app in the d d upp lef blo of c .
in rea - iza set , whe all the exa can be cor cla - sie , the sec ter fav the min tra mah - lan met con wit the uni mar con in eq .
the rel wei of the two ter is con by a hyp >12 set by cro - val .
the los fun in eq .
( 123 ) is a pie lin , con fun of the mat c , whi are fur con to be pos sem .
its opt can thu be for - lat as a pro in sem pro ( 123 ) .
suc pro can be gen sol by int poi alg - rit wit pol tim gua ( tho we imp - men a spe - pur sol usi gra - bas met - ods for the res in thi pap ) .
mos imp , eq .
( 123 ) has the des pro tha its opt is not pla by spu loc min .
mix mod
we now ext the pre mod to rep eac cla by mul ell .
thi is ana to mod eac cla by its own gmm , as opp to a sin gau .
let cm den the mat for the mth ell in cla c .
the mos str ext is to ima tha eac exa xn has not onl a cla lab yn , but als a mix com lab mn .
the lat lab are not pro a pri , but we can gen pro lab by tti a gmm to the exa - ple in eac cla by ml est , the for eac exa , com the mix com wit the hig pos pro und thi gmm .
giv joi lab ( yn , mn ) , we rew the lar mar cri in eq .
( 123 ) as : n cmz 123 + zt
c 123 yn , log fol fro the fac tha log n ynm + log
( 123 ) sta tha for eac com cla c 123 yn , the mat to any cen in cla c is wor tha the mat to the tar cen by a mar of at lea one uni .
thi int
m eam min am .
cla and mix com : p
the los fun for mix mod is a sim ext - sio of eq .
we rep the hin los in the rst ter by ( 123 + zt n cmz ) + , whi pen - ize vio of the mar ine in eq .
the reg - lar in the sec ter cha onl to sum ove dif cm tra ( cm ) .
due to the sof ope ove mix com , the res - ing los fun is no lon pie lin in the mat - ces cm; how , it is eas to ver tha it rem con .
thu , eve the opt of thi mor gen los fun for lar mar gmm is qui tra .
rel to pre wor
our fra dif in imp asp fro pre fra for dis tra of gmm ( 123 )
pos the cla - con den p ( x|y ) are mod by gmm .
one com app to dis tra es - tim the mea , cov mat , and mix wei of the mod tha max the con log - lik n log p ( yn| ) .
suc mod gen out gmm tha are est by max the joi log - lik n log p ( xn , yn ) .
in con to our fra , how , the opt of gmm par in thi way is not con .
mor , as a los fun , the con log - lik doe not foc on exa nea the dec bou nor inc the ide of a lar mar .
the mai dif bet lar mar gmm and svm is tha cla are mod by ell , rat tha hal - spa , and tha the ker tri ( whi inv mai - tai a lar ker mat ) is not req for non de - cis bou .
of cou , one can gen qua de - cis bou in svm by cho a pol ker of deg two , or by exp the vec xn to inc pai pro of the ori ele .
lar mar gmm dif fro suc svm by res the qua for to be pos sem and by ima the sup - por of eac cla as som bou reg in inp spa .
in add , suc svm can rep the lar mar gmm in sec 123 , wit mul ell per cla .
two fur ext of lar mar gmm are imp - tan for pro in asr : han of out , and seg tra .
we des eac ext in iso , ass for sim tha eac cla is mod by a sin ell - soi , as in sec 123 .
the gen to the lar mar gmm des in sec 123 is str , as is the han of out in com wit seg tra .
han of out
man dis lea alg are sen to out - lie .
mar - bas los fun , in par , do not clo tra the cla err rat whe the tra dat has man out .
we ado a sim str to det out and red the mal eff on lea .
out are det usi ml est of the mea and cov mat of eac cla .
the est are use to ini mat ml of the for in eq .
the , for eac exa xn , we com the acc hin los inc by vio of the lar mar con in eq
n 123 mea the dec in the los fun - not tha hml tio whe an ini mis exa xn is cor dur the cou of lea .
we ass out wit lar val of hml
out dis the lea pro by div its fo - cus awa fro mis exa tha cou oth be eas cor .
in par , cor one bad mis - sie out dec the cos fun pro in eq .
( 123 ) mor tha cor mul exa tha lie jus bar on the wro sid of a dec bou .
to x thi sit - uat , we rew the hin los ter in eq .
( 123 ) inv - ing exa xn by a mul fac of min ( 123 , 123 / hml thi rew equ the los inc by all ini mis exa , thu red the mal eff of out .
we com the wei fac onc fro the ml est and hol the xed dur dis tra .
in pra , thi sch app to wor ver sat .
seg tra
the mar con in eq .
( 123 ) app to ind lab exa .
we can als rel the to app , col , to mul exa kno to sha the sam cla lab .
thi is use for asr , whe we can tra on var - len seg - men , con of mul con ana fra , all of whi bel to the sam pho .
spe , let p ind the fra in the nth pho seg ( xnp ) seg tra , we rew the con in eq .
( 123 ) as : c 123 yn ,
npc 123 +
whe the sco on bot sid hav bee nor by the seg len .
the seg - bas con in eq .
( 123 ) is esp wel mot if a seg - bas dec rul is use for cla ( e . g . , y = arg p czp ) as opp to the fra - bas rul in eq
exp res
we app lar mar gmm to wel - ben pro - lem in pho cla and rec on the tim dat ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
we use the sta par of tra - ing and tes dat and the sam dev set as in ear wor ( 123 , 123 ) .
all sa sen wer exc .
we map the 123 pho lab in tim to 123 cla and tra ml and lar mar gmm for eac cla .
res wer eva - uat by map the 123 cla to 123 pho to rem fur con , as in pre ben .
our fro end com mel - fre cep coe ( mfc ) wit 123 ms win at a 123 ms fra rat .
we ret the rst 123 mfc coe of eac fra , alo wit the rst and sec tim der .
gmm mod the 123 - dim fea vec aft the wer whi by pca .
pho cla
pho cla is an art but ins pro - lem in asr .
one ass in thi cas tha the spe has
# of mix
123 123 123 123
tab 123
err rat for pho cla and rec on the tim dat .
lar mar gmm are com to bas gmm tra by ml est .
see tex for det .
bee cor seg int pho uni , but tha the pho cla lab of eac seg is unk .
the in - put to the cla is the seg of con ana fra tha spa pre one pho .
we tra lar mar gmm usi the seg - bas mar cri in sec 123 and com the to bas ( ful cov ) gmm tra by ml est .
the bas gmm wer als use to det the pro lab for mix com - pon in eq .
( 123 ) and to det and rew out , usi eq .
we use the dev dat set to cho the hyp - par > 123 in eq .
( 123 ) , to tun a uni lan mod , and to per ear sto of the opt pro .
the tra tim on 123 fra ( rou , 123 seg ) ran fro 123 - 123 hou dep on the mod siz .
tab 123 sho the per of inc cla pho - net seg on the tim tes set .
lar mar gmm con and sig out bas gmm wit equ num of mix com .
the bes lar mar gmm als yie a sli low cla err rat tha sta - of - the - art res ( 123 ) obt by hid con ran eld ( 123 ) .
pho rec
the sam bas and lar mar gmm wer use to bui pho rec .
the rec wer rst - ord hid mar mod ( hmm ) wit one con - ind sta per pho cla .
bas or lar mar - gin gmm wer use in the hmm to com the log pro ( or sco ) of obs fra .
in all hmm , we use the dev set to opt the wei of log tra pro .
tab 123 com the pho er - ror rat of the hmm , obt by ali the res of vit dec wit the gro - tru pho tra - tio ( 123 ) .
aga , the lar mar gmm lea to con - ten low err rat , her com as the sum of sub - sti , del , and ins err rat .
we als ob - ser , as in pre wor ( 123 ) , tha dis - tra con - ind pho mod ach low err rat tha con - dep mod tra by ml est .
we hav sho how to lea gmm for mul cla - cat bas on sim pri as lar mar cla - tio in svm .
cla are rep by ell who loc , sha , and siz are dis tra to max - miz the mar of cor cla , as mea in ter of mah dis .
the req opt is con - vex ove the mod par spa of pos sem - nit mat .
app to pro in pho cla and rec , we sho tha lar mar gmm led to sig imp ove bas gmm .
wor , we are inv pho rec wit con - dep pho mod , whi are kno to red pho err rat ( 123 , 123 ) .
we are als stu sch for int - ing the lar mar tra of gmm wit seq mod suc as hmm and / or con ran eld ( 123 ) .
thi wor was sup by nsf awa 123
we tha a .
gun ( mic res ) and k .
cra ( uni - ver of pen ) for man use dis and
