gh al ta at es on or ar a ow al ld an be ed by a on of al ar ls .
ch a on , er , es ot de a al on of he ly an nt al of ed ng .
in is er , we ow ow to rn a on of al ar ls at es is re lt em .
ur al ar ls re ed by a re of or rs , nd he al on of se ls is ed by ng a ng rm to he rd um od ve on .
he er ks a cy in he re ls er ce , ng ls se al te ms re ed in a nt ay .
as a lt , he al es ge ly nd ly as ne es a ed th on he en en he th es he ns of ny nt al ls .
he er es he rm of a ck - er ce nd es an ed on of al ds : ot to rm te ce in le ic ls , ut to rn re ul al ns in le es .
ht it ss .
nt on .
ed in es in al on ng ms 23 , me 23 , es 23 - 23
gs of he th al al on ng ms ( ps ) ce , ld in sh ia , da , om 23 - 23 er 23
is ce er is le at ns : tp : / / ry . nn . du / rs / 23
al on of al ar ls
am is , ce k .
ul , nd ey e .
on
nt of er ce , ty of to
nt of er nd on ce , ty of ia
gh al ta at es on or ar a ow al ld an be de - ed by a on of al ar ls .
ch a on , er , es ot de a al on of he ly an nt al of ed ng .
in is er , we ow ow to rn a on of al ar ls at es is re lt em .
ur al ar ls re ed by a re of or rs , nd he al di - on of se ls is ed by ng a ng rm to he rd um od ve on .
he er ks a cy in he re ls er ce , ng ls se al or - te ms re ed in a nt ay .
as a lt , he al or - es ge ly nd ly as ne es a ed th on he en en he th es he ns of ny nt al ls .
he er es he rm of a ck - er ce nd es an ed on of al ds : ot to rm ap - te ce in le ic ls , ut to rn re ul al ns in le es .
23 ld ng
er an le of es , ch of ch ns a ce st a al ck - nd .
ch ge an be ed by a nt in he gh al or ce of el es .
is on , er , es ot it he ng ns en ls of he me ge , or es it rt ny ul ns or ng ut es .
if , or le , we ct wo es th es in ly nt ns nd en ge ir el es , we do ot in an ge of a ce at ir ge on .
es of es ie on or ar a ow - al , ed ld , nd we an nt em re ly by he es on is ld an by el si - es .
ng se ic es , he ge of wo es is er ce th he ge of ir ns , es nd ns .
to ze nd te es , it is ul to ne a ic ck ox th rs or ls ng to he ic es on is ld .
en a ng of he rs nd ls , he ox es an ge of a ce .
en an ge of a ce , he ox es he te ng of he rs nd ls .
in is er , we be a ly al ay to ct ch a ox ly om an le of gh - al rs .
we me ly at re ts an ng ld of ow ty nd at he ip en he aw ta nd he ld es is ly ar nd ly ng .
us ur od es ot ly to es of es , ut so to ny er ms of ly ed al nd ic ta ( e . g . , ms of ch , ic rs , ne on ys , nt ns ) .
23 al ar ls
he al re of al ds ( ch as es of es ) ds to be ly ar .
ly , te ir ed al re , we an ly ar - ze se ds as ly ar .
us , to a od on , ey an be ed by ns of er ls , ch of ch es a ly ar od ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
or ed ng ks , a ic el at ly es is on is a re of or rs ( fa ) ( 23 ) .
he el is ed to be gh al ta at es on or ar a er al ld .
as ze a nt on er ed nd en es :
, ts he gh al a; he te
es re ly 23 as :
ly , he el es at he as gh nd ow al es re ed
he el es at ta is ed om nt ds on he ld
te nd us nt es .
he lt is a re of an ns th ed ce es of he rm :
, ng sh
re he ed le , ! en es , " $# % & ' ) ( ) ( * ( + - , , es nt ds on he d; nd he us en es , . / 23 ! 23 , nt ow al al es .
th or es 23 , nd at in ch od , he as al nd se si by ar es ed by sg
he al ta on , o , is ed by ng / ng ut he ls , ns h he ng em or as is to te he rs g of se ar es , as ll as he or 23 of ng z , ed er ng es .
te at he er ce of is el ts an ce : ng h ba ) , es ot ge he al is - re ) ^` ) al es ( \ on , 23 .
he ns h nd to ry ns nd
ns of he al es in ch ar el .
he ve on or he em hm is ed by se ns .
us , um od on in as es ot or ny ar t; ad , it es ls se er - al ns ge ly as ne es ed hs on he ld .
an we ge ls se al te ms re ed in a nt ay ?
ta om nt ts of he ld .
er on in as an be ed by an on - on ( em ) hm ( 23 ) at ts to ze he og -
23 al on
se he ta ie ar a th ld th a ly at ( le ) re .
gh in le ch od ld ve a nt or on ts al es , is he me or ll
en re st a le et of al sc ch ze he ld ut ss of ty we ve de he rd on td / *j gs fk nd ed he pe of ch al an el to he 3h .
ly le ue to he al es of he el .
re 23 : al el or ly ed as .
al - re ed , ey ct he rn - ng gh a on rm .
er ng , es ut he al es re de by ng or ns ,
gh al es . l .
se , ta an ly be ed by ng om l .
ll se ns re ic - he al on , d / zj
re .
re , to a od on , se al es an be ed to he al es of nt ds ( in ir on of ty ) by 23
of he ld ? ly , if a ta nt gs to ng ds , en he al es ed om ir al te ms , en by eq .
( 23 ) , ld ee .
we an ze is al on of nt al ls by ng he
? de a al on
at es it an to ay at he sc sc as ed es nd ng em to he ic el :
( re we it a ic ip en al nd al es , gh it is le to dd se to is ng as ll . ) he ly ed fa is ep - ed by he al el in ig .
we an al to ts al es to ke er ul es .
in ar :
on - le ty , en he or ns or he al es of
se en nt re ts ve se to nt al es .
le is lt , a ty ch es on - cy an be ly ed to he ng hm .
we ce a ly of
< in a ta nt
to ce is on of nt , we ed to ze ls se
' en by eq .
( 23 ) re al , ce le es ly
' , to
ow , if wo or re re ay , is ta nt , as ed by eq .
( 23 ) , ld be ly al : at is ,
ly ng ty of al ns er hc nd , nd ge he ue rs , be se to me er ,
ng is ea er , we ce a ew ve on or ed rn - ng in as .
he ew ve on es a er to ge he al cy of al ls :
' , of is ly .
he st rm in is ve on es he og - ty of he ta .
he nd rm es a um of ck - er ( kl ) s; se re ed to
by ng he ar on nd ng nd on to he al te ms .
( in ce , gh , it ay be er to ze he ve on ut ng he es to be of is rm . ) in he ts ed ow , we ve er ed em to
ut ss of ty , he sh an be en to be ic nd ve - te , be al .
er , en , he on sh nd rs h nt or an is - ed
ng nd rm on en he al nd al te ms .
ze as se or ns er al es re ot al .
he in ls of ty on nd ld ng in as re ed by ng
ct od ) re ed in er to ve el nt .
in at ws
he st nt ay to ze he ly of al ns is a or - ed rm ng a an ty nd a al :
to ce se ms in he ve on .
he or ls he ff en ( ly ct es ( ch do ot ty ng nd al on : as we ve et
% y; er on is le .
( 23 ) es er dc te at he on ng to is ly of al ec nt en he ta nt se re ly he ts we sh to se on he or on of ng , he sc ed ly or ch ta nt , eq .
( 23 ) : is ts to ng he al ns ,
he ue or ns ,
at ch
, st ed to
, ng at is nt of he re is an , nd us al .
so as to ze he ve on in
, nd re ts
, ce es
23 ng hm
nt le ls re ly ed by um od or an ds se ve ns do ot rd he ty of ir al ep - ns .
te ow he al of ng re ul al ns as ed he ng em in a al ay .
ow we ve al na -
on he ts we so ve ry rs or ch ta sc
ne he et ns , se rs , as ll as he fa el 23
to ch er he al es ms in a th ay nd to rn al ns ly ed by he al - to - al ng in eq
at st so be ed om es .
ll , , st be en
, nd re ts
, ce ri -
on of he ve on in eq .
( 23 ) is nt of so - ed al ds or te ng ( 23 ) .
in se ds , an on to an ct ( ut le ) or on is ed by ng a kl ce en he wo ns .
he ry rs of he ng on re wn as al rs .
ur ve on es an ed on of ch al ds : ot to rm te ce in le ic ls , ut to rn re ul al ns in le es .
we ce he to ze he al ns
al nd ed ns
he ls er ce nd rs al ar ls at an be ly ed .
ng he kl ce en se ns ts a cy in
23 ng nd ng he ve on
ng he ve on in eq .
( 23 ) es a um nd al er he nt ri - es of he el .
se ns re ed by ng he ve on as :
he ed rm of he ns
ed ms nd ls .
he al lt is a le rm in ms of es
' es it rd to rm he
th ta nt :
ed th he
nd he al on es
re we ve ed ng on or he or es
ly ng he ve on by te nt ow ds to a ng hm of he me al le as em .
ng he ve on , eq .
( 23 ) , th ct to he ng rs
he m - ep ts of ng he ve on , eq .
( 23 ) , th ct to he ve el rs .
et us te he ed er es by
ng he ed nt ns .
he ve on is ly nt to on ve is cy , er ng he ns ve we er in he al es to ve an ro nd it ce in ch on .
se ts re ed ut ng he ue of he ve on by ly ng he
% ) ds to he ed nt ns :
, ( nd ct to he nt
se ns an be ed by on th
ce at
ly ed to be ed ce re er -
ar ly in he rm
nd ng fc nd ng he al es
nd he 23
, he m - ep es or he st ee
, he 23
fy an ic ti on ch ch ay be ve or ll
at he um , he on ts es ve ng he us ue of
an be ed by ng he te wn ve .
( ch ns an so be ed by ch re ed ds ll wn in he ng ty
ng
he ng es , to be ed in he er wn , re en in ms of ed
es ut is st in ur al on . )
of se re :
re 23 : al on of al in - ar ls .
( ft ) a el ed ng xi - um od , th he ws ng he on of se or ch or rs al te em .
( ht ) a ed l; ws te he on in he ta ce ng to ng he al
es ow he ne rd on on - ur of he ty of ch er .
te as ed by he hm
we ve ed ur el on le ic ds se re is wn as ll as on ns of es of en ts nd es .
re 23 es he ic pt of on , as ed by ur ng le .
in he ed el , he al te ys ts in he me on ng he ta ld , as ed
we so ed he hm to ns of es of en ts nd of es .
um od , he ty is ll ed ut ch al nt le as a om on ng he ld .
he as ad 23 al ls nd he al es re wo al .
er ng , he ed as ad ed a th , us ng om he ne to es of ts or of es .
is ws us th to er a wo - al on en
in he el ed th xi - by he on of he sh he on of as an ed or of aw 23 - it le el es % ts nd 23 or e& or ch ge ( of ty 23 or e% 23 nd to te ew es om ny nt in he ne ny ge by ng .
( ly at we ed om he ic ox . ) in al , th ( i . e .
he ns of he al ns he ed al sc om he ve el , ed by ng he an of ng ht ne ve ed lt / pe nd ty nd ed em as he wo es of ec
hs in he al te ce .
in he se of ts , it ms as gh ur ls he se of he es he es em to re se nd on .
( or he es , he al
of se al ns ve he rm of a re of ns .
re 23 ws
of he ng ts er he st on of ng as ll as es of ew es
ce as ed by nd to gn le ns th he te es . )
as th ll em ms , he ed fa ng re is le to lo - al ma .
al to he ss of ur ts is a od on , ch as
ed by he ly ar ng hm ( 23 ) .
we dc
ng te ed by le nd to a ll ue nd ed il ce ( ly 23 - 23 ns ) .
en we ed th ng ng he ll em ns , in il ce ( ly 23 - 23 re ns ) .
te , er , at le nd er ng ms ch as ap ( 23 ) re es ed , so he ll re , ng is al se , is ll ed .
al to he em -
re ls de a le ay to te he ty of gh al ta at es on or ar a ow al ld .
er , ir en ns do ot ke it he ip en ar ta rs .
in is er , we ve wn ow to rn al es at an ct as an ng ce , so at er ts of a ng em do ot ed to ct th he al po - ts of a re .
is ld ve on as ll as te he on nd ge of on en se ls re ed to a er ( ps
al al am - ns of ds of ts nd es .
ch ed by he ed m; ts te ch ng em at nd of ng .
he ge ks on he rs re ot om he ng et ut re ed om he el lf nd nt he an of he ve
he ed ns
ng en es ( ed ng he ht es in he al ce ) .
l at he
he ls de th a wo ee - of - om en - or or ex es as ll as a se / nt on ys -
or he en ts , he ng et ed of 23 es of he it 23 ( wn as es ve ) ed th 23 ex - es of 3s ( wn as es ) .
he ts re om he st et , ig - ed at 23 ls .
or he es , we ed 23 im - es of a le on th us es nd es - ns en om cu - ve es of a eo gi - ed at 23 ls .
en - an ey ly ed he ce ta .
al ) re or ic ng .
wo ts of ur ly ed al re le .
he st is to se an em - ng hm ( ch as le or ap ) ot ly as an on ep ut to de ed es or he al es .
le is ed ch ay rk in ce , ed on es ar he ve on at is ng ti -
re 23 : a on in ch an un - ed ix - re ed to do ty ot be st - ed .
se as ed ne of he al ty od - ls to nt al to he ld .
in ly di - ed ng , re is an al re to gn th ng ls ch ld ce he al el to ie in he ct ce .
ed , ch es he ls of ld ng nd ty on .
er nt is to in an ed re el ( ch as a fa ) ng a al um od ve on nd en to st - te ts rs by ng al ns / ns nd ns to te al es .
as ed in re 23 , er , is wo - ep re an go ry se of se in he al ng et .
en th ty on nd on re ed ly re is ra re or al ts to t he al re of he ld .
ur rk an be ed as a is of wo ng es of ch in ed in he st re ts at ng he al re of ar ds ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) ; in he nd re ts at ng ic al ls or ea - ng er ty ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ur rk es to el he al es on ds as nt es , us ng to ne he al es of th ks .
it rs om ng by ng a ly ic el id ay om he ng et , nd om rk in ve ic ng ( 23 ) by ot ng a rm ed ng of he nt ce .
er , by ng he ss of re ls , it er ps an re at as dy ed te ul nd ly ar in ns of al ng .
we nk ke ow or ng is ed rk ( at he ty of to ) on at - ng es , nd in ni , er an , ob ek nd wo us rs or ul ts nd ns .
