an on to ly ar ng
ce k
&t bs ch
23 rk ve , am rk , nj 23 sa
is
by al ce it , cl
23 en re , on 3n ar , uk
ny ms in on ng ve me rm of on - ty on .
re we be ly ar ng ( le ) , an su - ed ng hm at es ow al , od ng gs of gh al ta .
le ts to er ar re in gh al ta by ng he al me - es of ar ns .
ly , le ps ts ts to a le al te em of er ty , nd ts ns gh le of ng ly ar do ot ve al ma .
we te he od on es of ps ed in al
ny ms in al rn on in th he ng of al ls , ch as es of es or ms of ch .
en , he al of ng is me rm of ty on : to om - ss he ls in ze nd to er ct ns of ir ty .
wo ar ms of ty on re he ds of al om - nt is ( ca ) ( 23 ) nd al ng ( ds ) ( 23 ) .
th ca nd ds re or ds ed to el ar es in gh en - al ta .
in ca , ne es he ar ns of st ce om
he op rs of he ta ce ix .
in al ( or ic ) ds , ne es he ow al ng at st es se is - es en ta ts .
if se es nd to an es , he ts of ic ds re nt to ca .
th ds re le to nt , nd ir ns do ot ve al ma .
se es ac - nt or he ad se of ca nd ds , te ir nt ns as ar ds .
ly , we ed an or ed ly ar ng ( le ) or he em of ar ty on ( 23 ) .
is em is ed by he ar ld in re 23
in is le , he en - ty on by le ds in ng he ng re of he ld , le ns of he ta by ca or ic ds ap ay ta ts to by ts in he ne .
ke ca nd ds , ur hm is im - le to nt , nd ts ns do ot ve al ma .
at he me me , er , it is le of ng ly ar gs .
te at re ls or al ty on ( 23 , 23 ) , ch er he ta nd rm ca in ch er , do ot ss he em ed re ly , ow to ap gh al ta to a le al te em of er ty .
in is er , we ew he le hm in ts st ic rm nd te a al on to al ch is ( 23 ) .
re 23 : he em of ar ty on , as ed or ee al ta ( b ) ed om a wo al ld ( a ) .
an un - ed ng hm st er he al al es of he ld ut ls at ly te ow he ta ld be ed - ed in wo ns .
he ng in ( c ) es he od - ng ng ed by le .
he le hm , ed in ig .
23 , is ed on le ic ns .
ed om me th ng ld .
ed re is nt ta ( ch at he ld is ll - ed ) , we ct ch ta nt nd ts gh - rs to ie on or se to a ly ar ch of he ld .
, ch of ty
we an ze he al ry of se es by ar ts at ct ch ta nt om ts rs .
in he st on of le , st rs er ta nt , as ed by an is - ce .
( ly , ne an fy rs by ng ll ts in a ll of ed us , or by ng re ed es ed on al cs . ) on rs re en ed by he st on :
se he ta st of
ze he on of he th ta nt to ns .
he ts
, we ze he st nc - he th on .
to te he ts
es ot ng to is t; nd ,
om ts rs , ng
he on or he at he ws of he ht ix um to ne : um - to - ne nt ll me ar ly .
he al ts
to se ts re nd by ng a st es em , as ed in
ch ds up he ed es en ll he ta ts nd ir on -
te at he ed ts at ze se on rs ey an nt ry : or ny ar ta nt , ey re nt to ns , gs , nd ns of at ta nt nd ts rs .
he ce to ns nd gs ws ly om he rm of eq .
( 23 ) ; he ri - ce to ns is ed by he um - to - ne nt on he ws of he ht ix .
a ce of is ry is at he on ts ze ic ic es of ch od , as ed to es at nd on a ar me of ce .
on ct to wo ts : st , at ch ta nt
is ed ly
gn , he on ts
se he ta ie on or ar a th ar ld of ty .
to a od on , en , re ts a ar ng of a on , on , nd at ps he gh al di - es of ch od to al al es on he ld
ct ic ic es of he
ta at re nt to ly ch ns .
we re ct ir on of al ry in he al ta ce to be ly id or ns ld so ct ts ed ld
al es on he ld .
in ar , he me ts
he th ta nt in es in ! ns .
( ly , ne ng a ir of rs , ng ut ly ar es of he ng ld , nd ng em in he ow al ng ce .
me er at is on is ne in a ay at es he es ed by ch ta nt to ts st rs .
in is se , he on of ch ch es no re an a on , on , nd ng of ts ta , ly he ns to ch he ts re nt .
us , en he ch es at ts ow al on , we ct he me ts to ct ch ta nt om ts rs . )
ts at ke he em ll - ed , it an be ed by ng a
an ed et of al es ed on he in .
ls of is or em re ed in ix b .
is st ke he us is ed on ly ar on
le ts a od ng ng ed on he ve ea .
in he is ed to a
al ep of he hm , ch gh al on
ow al or ng al al es on he ld .
is is ne by ng ! - al es to ze he ng le ng he es rs , ut re we x he ts
ng st in eq .
( 23 ) es a ic rm in he rs .
ct to or em , se om ! on - ro rs de ng es re ed by an - * .
ne ee er : he er of rs er ta nt ,
te at le he on ts or ch ta nt re ed om ts al nt of he ts or er ta he em - er , a al on at es ll ta ts in ed ts of he ph ed by he ht ix .
he nt ns in he ng ce an be ed es - y; is is ne ly by ng he om rs om eq .
( 23 ) ne at a me .
ut he on is ys ed ss ta ts .
is is ow he hm es ng al on to er al re .
on of he hm is ly rd , as he hm as ly .
ce rs
te he rs of ch ta nt ,
ts rs , ng he st in eq .
( 23 ) by ed ar ts .
at st ct ch ta nt
he ic rm in eq .
( 23 ) by ts om ro rs .
re 23 : ry of he le hm , ng gh al ta ts ,
ds in ar ra .
he hm es a le ss gh he ee ps in ig .
23 nd ds al ma of he on nd ng ts in qs .
( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) .
as ed in ix a , in he al se re he
te he ts
te he rs $ / st ed by he ts
, to ow al ng rs , re en , he al ts
re ed by rd rs er he ut ty , he st es em he hm , as ed in ig .
23 , es as ut he .
in ny gs , er , he er ay ot ve ss to ta of is
rm , ut ly to ts of ty or se ce en if - nt ta ts .
a le on of le , ed in ix c , an be ed to ut of is rm .
in is ay , es of se es an be ed by le st as ly as ds ( 23 ) ; in ct ly a ll on of ll os - le se es ( ng es en ng ts nd ir ve rs ) re ed or ng le .
or ng he ts es ot ve a ue on , nd a on rm or le , ne at es he ed es of he st be ed to he on st .
gh al ec -
he gs ed by le re st to ze or ly wo
ta ts ed ff he s - ed ld .
he ng ng ws
al ds .
in ig .
23 , or le , he ut to le ed 23 : 23 rs er ta nt , ly ed ow he hm , ng
he ng wo al re .
ze , he ld of ed es is ly ar in he gh al
by st , he op on ws he st wo ts ed by ca .
it is ar at he ld re in is le is ch er ed by le .
23 ws er wo al ld , is ne ng in a ch er al ce .
re , we ed wn in he le el of he by ng he ge of a le ce ss a er nd of om se .
he se as ed om ne le to he xt .
he ly nt re in he ng es us ed a wo - al ld ed by he es er of ss .
he ut to le ed
3= le es , th ch ge ng 3> nd of se .
te at le le to su - ed on a ? a; ) or ce of el es .
he om on of ig .
23 ws cb rs er ta nt .
he st wo ts ed by le , th 3> or ( gb ) es of ps at a> ds ( 23 ) .
ur se ed 3= : 23 ) is ul or on .
ty on of se es ( h : 23 ) .
st wo ts ed , ly , by ca nd le ( th
if he ip es ed a ly ar ld , se wo ds ld ld ar s; us , he nt es in se gs al he ce of ar re .
te at le he ar on by ca as a at rm on ut ts an , he ly ar ng as a ly ny re , th he ps of he es ng to al ns of he ps .
ly , in on to se es , or ch he ue ld re as wn , we so ed le to es of ps ed in he on of ng
er nd re nt on .
he op nd om ls of ig .
23 ow he
it is th ng at ny ar ng ms or ar on - ty on do ot re he le es of le .
ve ll - ng ds or er al ks ( 23 , 23 ) , lf - ng ps ( 23 ) , nd nt le ls ( 23 ) do ot ve he me es of al ty or on - e; ey so nd to ve ny re ee rs , ch as ng es , ce ia , nd al ns .
he nt ps of le ve he ng es .
in ep 23 , ng
st rs es ( in he st se ) si
, nd ly in he er of ta ts ,
, or ly in he ut
or ny
re 23 : he ts of ca ( op ) nd le ( om ) , ed to es of a le ce ed ss a wo - al nd of se .
te ow le ps he es th er es to he rs of ts wo al ng , le ca ls to ve he od re of by es .
re 23 : es of ps ed to he ng ce ed by he st wo es of ca ( op ) nd le ( om ) .
ve ps re wn xt to ed ts in nt ts of ch ce .
he es en he wo gs te he ce of ar re in he ta .
et of ar ns or ch ta nt .
in ep 23 , ng
ta ns , er nd ly or ta ed on a in an - ld of he on ce ns ch as k - d es an be ed to me ( 23 ) .
in ep 23 , ng he on -
te he rs ni on ts es si to ve a he om rs es si ns , ! , nd ly in he er of ta ts ,
ds or se ms ( 23 ) , er , an be ed to ce he ty to ub - .
te at as re ns re ed to he ng ce , he ng es do ot ge , so at le es ot ve to be un to te er al gs .
he ge ts of le re ed by he ht ix ch is ze n by k .
; is is he er of ns ed , ly in he er of ng
le es a al le of ld ng , ed by um et al ( 23 ) , at ng al ly an ro - de on ut al ry .
ny es of le re ed by he ap hm ( 23 ) , ch as en ly ed to ar ms in ar ty on .
ap is an on of ds in ch gs re ed to ve ic es en rs of ta s; se es re ed by ng st hs gh ge es of ta .
a ue of le is at it ds he ed to ve ge dy - ic ng ms .
le so ds to te ry se es , se re an be ed or gs in me nd ce .
le is ly to be en re ul in on th er ds in ta is nd al ng .
an ng nd nt on is ow to rn a ic ng en he on nd ng es , en
a ed st es em
es or al ls of ed ng .
he ty to rn ch ap - gs ld ke le ly ul in ny as of on ng .
rq rs as ed ex - he ts of le .
ne le ch is to ep an be ed in ed rm .
er a ar ta nt
he ed ts at st ct ch ta nt om ts rs at um to ne .
we an te he
nd on su
on or as :
in ms of he se al ce ix , he
, nd en to le
he on , as en in eq .
( 23 ) , rs to re an it on of he al ce ix .
in ce , a re nt ay to ze he or is
he ts so at ey um to ne ( ch ds he me lt ) .
by on , he al ce ix in eq .
( 23 ) is ic nd ve te .
if he ce ix is ar or ly as es , or le , en ) , or en he ta ts re ot in al it an be ed ( re ng he em ) by ng a ll le of he ty ix ,
al ts re en by :
he nt at ly to ve he ar em of ns , re re re rs an ut ns ( 3g is ll ed to he ce fz he ng rs
b or em
te at he st es a ic rm ,
is ts to ng ge ts at it ns nd me el of on in he ta am -
re in he st ty , we ve ed he ct at he ts um to ne , nd in he nd ty , we ve ed he al ce ix ,
is or an be ed in ed rm , ng a ge er to ce
23 re nd by ng he st on , eq .
( 23 ) , or
is 23 if
ng he es to be ed on he in :
is on is ed ct to ts at ke he em ll
ng er ts of he ng rs nd *| xz nd 23 se .
it is ar at he es an be ed by a nt ce - nt ut ng he st , % .
we ve is ee of om by
so , to id te ns , we in he ng rs to ve it ce , th er ts at fy
ty ix .
te at re is no ss in ty in to be al nd of er ty , ce he st on in eq .
( 23 ) is nt to ns nd us gs .
he er nt at he ce is al to he ty ix es an mp - on at on rs or nt es in he ng ce ld be ed on he me le .
he al up to a al on of he ng is nd ; is is a on of he tz - tz em ( 23 ) .
he om or of is ix , ch we rd , is he it or th ll al s; it ts a ee on de of ue ro .
ng is or es he nt at he gs ve ro an , ce he ts of er rs st
ng he ce of rs of he ix , z by ng he om ! um to ro , by ue of ty .
he ng ! rs rm he ! ng es nd by le .
rs of he xz te at he om ! es ) an be nd ut ng a ll ix ng to ts st ! on ( 23 ) .
er , he xz
an be ed nd ed as he
( at is , se nd -
se ic ix
, th of er ds to be ly re -
c le om se es
in ar , ft ( he ne ed by st se rs ) an be
ng al al gs or ge es of
ng st ne on by
nd ne on by
ch re ly se .
us , he xz ed or d; it is nt to re nd ly he ix
ed to te he al ce xz ) ax en ts st rs , ax es he ed ce en he th nd th rs , ax .
in ms of is al ce ix , he
as ed by eq .
( 23 ) in ix a .
is an be ne by ng he al on en se es nd ot ts at ms he is of ic ds ( 23 ) .
us , or a ar ta nt , we et :
le an be ed to er ut in he rm of se es .
in is se , st rs re ed by he st on - ro ts of ch ow in he ce ix .
to ve he on ts or ch ta nt , we
on ts or ch ta nt re en by eq .
he st of he hm ds as al .
te at is nt of le es ly ss er ut an he om - te ix of se es .
ad , or ch ta nt , he er ds ly to fy ts st rs nd he ix of se es be - en se rs .
is it le to er ld re om en ss er ay , st he se es en ch ta nt nd ts ar - st rs ? a le le ws at is is ot le .
er he re ce of ee al ta ts se er es um to
ne at ts th ns - es re ed ck , nd at ts th ds - es re ed ed .
he wo nt ng at ps ll
ck ts to he in nd ll ed ts to ne it ay es he ce en ch nt nd ts ur st rs .
ss , is ng ly ls to ve he ng re of he al ld .
he rs nk e .
to , h . p .
af , nd y .
un ( &t bs ) nd b .
ey ( u .
to ) or ng ta or se ts .
is es he rt of he by le on , he al ce on , nd he al es nd ng ch il of da .
