we ate how to arn a nel rix for igh nal ata hat ies on or ear a low nal old .
ing hat the nel rix tly aps the ata nto a ear ure ace , we how how to ver a ing hat lds the ing old rom ich the ata was led .
the nel rix is ted by ing the nce in ure ace ect to cal nts hat rve the les and ces een est ors .
the ain ion ves an nce of ite ing - - - a lly ent ion han ous hms for old ing , uch as map and lly ear ing .
the zed els orm ter han ial and ian els for ems in old ing , but rse for ems in rge gin ion .
we ain ese lts in rms of the ric ies of ent els and ent on ous ons of her old ing hms as nel ods .
els , ine ing
ngs of the nty rst nal nce on ine ing ( cml 123 ) , eld 123 - 123 uly 123 , nff , rta , ada .
his nce per is ble at ons : ttp : / / ory . enn . edu / ers / 123
ing a nel rix for ear ity ion
ian q .
ger nce k .
aul ent of ter and ion nce , ity of nia , hia , pa 123 , usa
we ate how to arn a nel rix for igh nal ata hat ies on or ear a low nal old .
ing hat the nel rix tly aps the ata nto a ear ure ace , we how how to ver a ing hat lds the un - ing old rom ich the ata was led .
the nel rix is ted by ing the nce in ure ace ect to cal nts hat rve the les and ces een est igh - ors .
the ain ion ves an in - nce of ite nga fun - lly ent ion han pre - ous hms for old ing , uch as map and lly ear ing .
the zed els orm ter han oly - ial and ian els for ems in old ing , but rse for ems in rge gin ion .
we ain ese lts in rms of the ric ies of ent els and ent on ous ons of her old ing al - hms as nel ods .
nel ods ( opf & ola , 123 ) ave ven to be ely ful in any eas of ma - ine ing .
the so - led nel ick is by now ely ted : a cal thm ( e . g . , the ear ron , pal ent sis ) is re - ted in rms of ram ces , hen ral - zed to ear ems by ing a nel ion for the ner uct .
ell ond his fa - iar ipe , ver , the eld ues to lop
ing in ngs of the 123 st nal fer - nce on ine ing , ban , ada , 123
ght 123 by the ors .
as ers ise vel pes of els , oit - ing ior dge in lar ins and hts rom nal ing ory and vex op - eed , uch ork ves und the ple ion : how to ose the nel ? the an - ers are rse , ing the ous ety of ems to ich nel ods ave een ied .
els sed on ing ing ( dhi et al . , 123 ) and ted ers ( tes et al . , 123 ) ave een sed for ems in ics , ext , and ech ing .
her zed els ave een ted for ems in ern ion ing ies and ces ( ges , 123 ) .
ost tly , nel ces ave een ned by ite ing for rge gin ica - ion ( pel , 23; iet et al . , 123 ) .
in his per , we sit the lem of ear ity ion and its ion by nel pal ent sis ( pca ) ( opf et al . , 123 ) .
our cic est ies in the ion of nel pca to igh nal ata ose sic des of ity are bed by a low nal old .
the oal of ear ity duc - ion in ese ons is to ver the rly - ing old ( aum et al . , 23; eis & aul , 123 ) .
for ems of his ure , we how how to arn a nel rix ose cit ing nto fea - ure ace lds the old rom ich the ata was led .
the ain ion of our thm ves an nce of ite ing , but ike ier ork in ing nel ces ( rae - pel , 23; iet et al . , 123 ) , the ing ere is the lem of old ing has tly at - ted a eat eal of ion ( aum et al . , 23; eis & aul , 23; kin & ogi , 23; aul & eis , 123 ) , and a ber of ors ( ben - gio et al . , 23; ham et al . , 123 ) ave ped ons een old ing hms and nel pca .
in ast to ous ork , ver ,
our per oes not rve to ret pre - ing hms uch as map and lly ear bed - ing as ces of nel pca .
ead , we ose a vel ion ( sed on ite ram - ing ) hat ges the ure on nel ods and old ing in a her ent way .
the thm we ibe can be wed rom ral com - ary ves .
his per ses nly on its ion as a nel hod , ile a com - ion per ( ger & aul , 123 ) ses on its ion to the sed ing of age
nel pca
opf , ola , and ler ( 123 ) ced ker - nel pca as a ear ion of pca ( jol - lie , 123 ) .
the ion is ned by ing the nal uts nto a her ( and bly in - ite ) nal ure ace f ore ing the pal nts .
in lar , der uts 123 , .
, xn rd and res ( 123 ) , .
, ( xn ) f ted by ome ing : rd f .
nel pca is sed on the ght hat the pal com - nts in f can be ted for ngs ( x ) hat are nly tly ned by ing the ner uct in ure hat is , the nel ion k ( x , y ) = ( x ) ( y ) .
nel pca can be sed to ain low nal ons of igh nal uts .
for his , it ces to ute the ant ors of the nel rix kij = ( xi ) ( xj ) .
the nel rix can be sed in rms of its ues and .
ing the ues are ted rom est to est , the d - nal ing hat est ves ner rod -
cts in ure ace is ned by ing the put ird to the tor yi = ( the ain dom in nel pca ies in ing the nel ion k ( x , y ) or ise ing the nel rix kij .
ome ely sed els are the ear , ial and ian els , ven by :
ors v as k =p
23i ,
k ( x , y ) = x y , k ( x , y ) = ( 123 + x y ) p , k ( x , y ) = e
the ear nel ply ies the ure ace ith the put ace .
tly , the ial nel aps the uts nto a ure ace of nal - ity o ( dp ) , ile the ian nel aps the uts nto the ace of an ite - nal ere .
the ant ues of the nel rix kij
ure the nce ong the pal nts in ure ace , ded hat the res are cen - red on the gin .
the res can ays be cen - red by ing out eir ely , by the ion ( xi ) ( xi ) 123 j ( xj ) .
hen the ing ( x ) is nly tly ied by the nel ion , the ing ion can be ied tly to the nel rix .
in lar , re - ing the ner cts kij = ( xi ) ( xj ) rom the red res ves :
kij kij 123
for a red nel rix , the ive ght of the ing d ues , ned by ing eir sum by the ace , res the ive nce cap - red by the ing d ors .
hen his tio is rly ity , the ata can be wed as ing a d - nal ace of the ure ace , or uiv - tly , a d - nal old of the put ace .
ing the nel rix
the ice of the nel ays an ant ole in ker - nel pca , in hat ent els are und to eal ( or eal ) ent pes of low nal ruc - ure .
in his ion , we how how to arn a nel rix hat als hen igh nal uts lie on or ear a low nal old .
as in ier ork on ort tor nes ( vms ) ( pel , 23; iet et al . , 123 ) , we ill ast the rob - lem of ing the nel rix as an nce of ite ing .
the ity nds ere , ver , as the ion ria for ear di - ity ion ier lly rom the ria for rge gin ion .
we ibe the nts on the ion in ion 123 , the ive ion in ion 123 , and the ion elf in ion 123 .
the nel rix k is ned by ree ria .
the rst is ive ess , a ion re - red to ret the nel rix as ing the ner cts of ors in a ert ace .
we hus ain the ion ver k to the one of sym - ric ces ith ive ues .
ugh not a ear int , the one of ive de - ite ces nes a vex ain for the all the ond int is hat the nel rix res
the ner cts of res hat are red on the
( xi ) = 123
as bed in ion 123 , his ion les us to ret the ues of the nel rix as res of nce ong pal nts in ure ace .
( 123 ) can be sed in rms of the nel rix as :
( xi ) ( xj ) = x
ote hat his is a ear int on the nts of the nel rix , hus ing the ity of the ain of ion .
the nal nts on the nel rix ect our als for ear ity ion .
in tic - lar , we are ted in the ing ere the uts lie on or ear a low nal old , and the als of nel pca are to ect the ity of his ing old and ver its des of bil - ity .
we ine hat his old is ric to an pen ted set of ean ace ( aum et al . , 23; oho & mes , 123 ) , and the rob - lem of ing the nel rix is to ver how the ner cts een uts orm der his ing .
an 123 is a oth ble map - ing hat oks lly ike a ion lus ion , hus ing cal ( and nce sic ) ces .
hus , in our ion of nel pca to old ing , the nal nts we ose on the nel rix are to ict the ( tly ned ) ngs een uts and res rom lly ral lin - ear ons to the ial ass of ies .
how is his one ? we gin by ing the no - ion of try to ely led lds , in uts ( 123 , .
, xn ) and fea - lar to ets of res ( ( 123 ) , .
, ( xn ) ) in one - to - one pon - nce .
let the nn ary rix ate a igh - ood ion on oth ets , uch hat we ard xj as a bor of xi if and nly if ij 123 ( and rly , for ( xj ) and ( xi ) ) .
we ill say hat the uts xi and res ( xi ) are lly ric der the ood ion if for ery int xi , ere ex - sts a ion and ion hat aps xi and its ors ely nto ( xi ) and its ors .
the ove ion tes lly nto ous
lly , two ian lds are aid to be iso - ric if ere is a ism uch hat the ric on one lls ack to the ric on the her .
ets of ear nts on the nts of the ker - nel rix kij .
ote hat the cal try een ods ill ist if and nly if the ces and les een nts and eir ors are pre - ved .
hus , ver oth xj and xk are ors of xi ( hat is , jik = 123 ) , for cal try we ust ( ( xi ) ( xj ) ) ( ( xi ) ( xk ) ) = ( ixj ) ( ixk ) .
( 123 ) is ent for cal try use the tri - gle med by any int and its ors is ter - ned up to ion and ion by ing the ths of two des and the gle een hem .
in act , uch a gle is rly ned by eci - ing the ths of all its des .
hus , we can lso say hat the uts and res are lly ric un - der if ver xi and xj are ves ors ( hat is , ij = 123 ) or are mon ors of her put ( hat is , ( t ) ij 123 ) , we ave :
| ( xi ) ( xj ) 123 = 123 .
his is an ent ion of cal ome - try as eq .
( 123 ) , but sed nly in rms of ise ces .
lly , we can ess ese nts ely in rms of dot cts .
let gij = ixj de - ote the ram rix of the uts , and all hat the nel rix kij = ( xi ) ( xj ) nts the ram rix of the res .
hen eq .
( 123 ) can be ten as :
kji = gji .
( 123 ) ins how the ner cts een rby uts are wed to orm der a lo - lly ric ing .
we ose ese nts to ure hat the ing ned ( tly ) by the nel rix is an try .
ote hat ese con - nts are lso ear in the nts of the nel rix , hus ing the ity of the ain the est ice for ods is to let ij in - ate her put xj is one of the k est igh - ors of put xi ted ing ean nce .
in his ase , eq .
( 123 ) ies o ( n 123 ) nts hat x the ces een ach int and its est ors , as ell as the ise ces een est ors .
ded hat k ( cid : 123 ) n , ver , the nel rix is ely to be lly ied by ese nts nce it ins o ( n 123 ) nts .
ive ion
in the ous ion , we wed how to ict the nel ces so hat the res ( xi ) uld be re - ded as ges of a lly ric ing
oal of ear ity ion is to dis - ver the lar ric ing hat lds the ing old of uts nto a ean ace of its sic ity .
his sic ity may be uch wer han the rin - sic ity of the put ace .
to old the old , we eed to uct an ive ion ver lly ric nel ces hat ors his ype of ity ion .
to his end , ine ach put xi as a eel all con - ted to its k est ors by gid ods .
( for ity , we ume hat the aph med his way is lly ed; if not , hen ach ted com - ent of the aph uld be zed ely . ) the ect of the gid ods is to ock the bor - ods in ace , ing the ces and les een est ors .
the ice of eel lls med in his way can be wed as a zed ion of the ing old .
now ine hat we ull the eel lls as far art as ble , ing eir - nal ons by ( xi ) .
the zed old ill ain due to the nts sed by the gid but it ill lso ten , ing the nce red by its ing pal nts .
( for a ous ogy , ine ing on the nds of a ng; a ing ith any ack in it ies at ast two ons , eas a aut , lly ded ing ies ust one . ) we can ize his ion as an ion ver ive ite ces .
the nts im - sed by the gid ods are , in act , ely the con - nts sed by eq .
an ive ion hat res the ise ces een eel lls is
it is asy to see hat his ion is ded ove due to the nts on ces een ors sed by the gid ods .
ose the nce be - een any two ors is ded by ome mal nce .
ing the aph is ted , hen for any two nts , ere sts a ath ong the aph of nce at ost n , ich ( by the gle in - ity ) des an per und on the ean nce een the nts hat ars in eq .
his lts in an per und on the ive unc - ion of der o ( n 123 123 ) .
( 123 ) can be sed in rms of the nts of the nel rix by ing the ght and ide :
( kii + kjj kij ) = tr ( k ) .
the ast tep in eq .
( 123 ) ows rom the ing con - int in eq .
hus the ive ion for the ion is ply the ace of the nel rix .
ing the ace lso nds to ing the nce in ure ace .
ite ing ( sde )
the nts and ive ion rom the pre - ous ons ene an nce of ite pro - ing ( sdp ) ( ghe & oyd , 123 ) .
lly , the oal is to ize a ear ion of the nts in a ive ite rix sub - ect to ear ity nts .
ing the con - nts and ive ion , we ave the ing
ize : tr ( k ) ect to : 123
k ( cid : 123 ) 123
for all i , j uch hat ij 123 or ( cid : 123 ) t ( cid : 123 )
kji = gji
ij kij = 123
the ion is vex and oes not uer rom cal ima .
ere are ral ral - ose ool - xes and ial - ime ers ble for rob - ems in ite ing .
the lts in his per ere ned ing the umi ool - box ( urm , 123 ) in lab .
nce the nel ma - rix is ted , a ear ing can be ob - ned rom its ing ors , as bed in ion 123
use the nel ces in his ach are zed by ite ing , we ill re - fer to his lar orm of nel pca as ide - ite ing ( sde ) .
tal lts
nts ere med on ral ata ets to ate the ing thm bed in ion 123
ugh the sde els ere sly zed for ems in old ing , we lso ted eir nce for rge gin ion .
ear ity ion
we med nel pca ith ear , ial , ian , and sde els on ata ets ere we new or ted hat the igh nal uts ere led rom a low nal old .
ere nec - ary , nel ces ere red ore ing pal nts , as in eq
ure 123
top : lts of sde ied to n = 123 in - uts led rom a iss oll ( top eft ) .
the uts had d = 123 ons , of ich 123 ere led ith all nts of ise ( not own ) .
the two nal lot ows the ing rom nel pca ith the sde ker - nel .
tom : ues of ent nel ces , nor - zed by eir ace .
nly the ues rom sde ate the ect sic ity ( d = 123 ) of the
in the rst ent , the uts ere led rom a ree nal iss oll , a ata set com - nly sed to ate hms in old arn - ing ( aum et al . , 123 ) .
123 ows the rig - nal uts ( top eft ) , the ing red by sde ith k 123 est ors ( top ght ) , and the lue tra rom ral ent nel tri - ces ( tom ) .
the lor ing of the ing re - als hat the iss oll has een lly rav - led .
ote hat the nel rix ned by sde has two ant ues , ing the ect un - ing ity of the iss oll , eas the tra of her nel ces ail to eal his ure .
in lar , the ear nel rix has ree ant ues , ing the sic di - ity of the iss oll , ile the tra of the ial ( p = 123 ) and ian ( = 123 ) nel 123 ate hat the ces of eir res ( xi ) are ead oss a far ter ber of ons han the nal uts xi .
the ond ent was med on a ata set ing of n = 123 lor ges of a pot wed rom ent les in the ane .
ith a ion of
for all the ata ets in his ion , we set the dth ter of the ian nel to the ted tan - ard ion hin ods of ize k = 123 , hus ing the ame gth ale sed in sde .
ure 123
lts of sde ied to n = 123 ges of a pot wed rom ent les in the ane , der a ull 123 ees of ion .
the ges ere ted by uts in a d = 123 nal tor ace .
sde lly nts the 123 ees of ion by a cle .
the ues of ent nel ces are lso own , zed by eir ace .
123 and ree tes of lor ion per xel , the ges ere ted as nts in a d = 123 nal tor ace .
ugh ery igh men - nal , the ges in his ata set are ely pa - zed by a gle ree of ely , the gle of ion .
the low nal ing of ese ges by sde and the lue tra of dif - ent nel ces are own in fig .
the nel rix ned by sde ( ith k 123 est ors ) tes the nce of the ure ace in two ons and aps the ges to a cle , a hly ive ion of the ull 123 ees of ota - ion .
by ast , the ear , ial ( p = 123 ) , and ian ( = 123 ) nel ces ave lue tra hat do not ect the low sic men - ity of the ata set .
why oes nel pca ith the ian nel per - orm so tly on ese ata ets hen its dth ter cts the ame gth ale as bor - ods in sde ? ote hat the ian nel com - tes a rly ero ner uct ( kij 123 ) in fea - ure ace for uts xi and xj hat do not ong to
ues ( zed by ace ) sde nel ! ! " " ! " # " ! $ " " $ " 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . ues ( zed by ace ) sde nel ure 123
ngs rom nel pca ith the ian nel on the iss oll and pot ata ets in igs .
123 and 123
the rst ree pal nts are own .
in oth ses , ent hes of the lds are ped to nal rts of ure ace .
the ame or ely ing ods .
it fol - ows rom ese ner cts hat the ure ors ( xi ) and ( xj ) ust be rly nal .
as a re - ult , the ent hes of the old are ped nto nal ons of the ure ace : see fig .
hus , her han ing the old , the aus - ian nel ads to an ing ose nal - ity is ual to the ber of non - ing hes of gth ale .
his ins the lly oor per - nce of the ian nel for old ing ( as ell as its lly ood nce for rge gin ion , sed in ion 123 ) .
her ent on the ata set of pot ges was med by ing the gle of ion to 123 ees .
the lts are own in fig .
est - gly , in his ase , the tra of the ear , oly - ial , and ian nel ces are not ita - ely ent .
by ast , the sde nel rix now has nly one ant lue , ing hat the ity for his set of ges is led by a gle ( non - lic ) ree of dom .
as a nal ent , we red the nce of the ent els on a eal - rld ata set bed by an ing old .
the ata set ( ull , 123 ) ted of n 123 ale ges at 123 olu - ion of ten wos and ees ( in hly ual ion ) .
in his ata set , it is ble to nd a rel - ely oth rph een any air of ges , and a ely all ber of ees of dom ibe the ble des of ity ( e . g .
rit - ing les for ten its ) .
fig 123 ows the lts .
ote hat the nel rix ned by sde tes the nce in a tly wer num - ber of ons , ing it has ted a ore
ure 123
lts of nel pca ied to n = 123 ges of a pot wed rom ent les in the ane , der 123 ees of ion .
the ues of ent nel ces are own , zed by eir ace .
the one nal ing rom sde is lso own .
ate ure map for ear ity
rge gin ion
we lso ted the use of sde nel ces for rge gin ion by vms .
ral ing and est ets for ems in ary ion ere ted rom the sps ata set of ten dig - its ( ull , 123 ) .
ach ing and est set had 123 and 123 les , ely .
for ach ent , the sde nel ces ere ned ( ing k = 123 est ors ) on the ned ing and est ata ets , ing the get els .
the lts ere red to ose ned rom ear , ial ( p = 123 ) , and ian ( = 123 ) els .
ble 123 ows hat the sde els med ite rly in his ity , ven rse han the ear els .
123 ers an ion of his oor nce .
the sde nel can nly be ted to orm ell for rge gin ion if the ion und - ary on the ded old is ely ear .
ere is no a ori son , ver , to ect his ype of ear ity .
the ple in fig .
123 ows a lar ary ing of uts on the iss oll for ich the ion ary is uch ler in the put ace han on the ded ani - old .
a lar ect ems to be ing in the rge gin ion of ten its .
hus , the gth of sde for ear ity ion is lly a ess for rge gin ion .
by ast , the ial and ian els ead to ore ful ers ely use hey map uts to her nal ons of ure ace .
ted and ing ork
sde can be wed as an sed art to the ork of pel ( 123 ) and iet et al ( 123 ) , who sed ing nel ces by ite
cda ure 123
lts of nel pca ied to n = 123 ges of ten its .
the ues of ent nel ces are own , zed by eir ace .
its ear ial ian 123 vs 123 123 vs 123 123 vs 123 123 vs 123
ble 123
ent ror tes for svm ion ing ent els on est ets of ten its .
ach ine nts the age of 123 nts ith ent 123 / 123 its of ing and ing ata .
ere , the sde nel rms uch rse han the her els .
ure 123
the nty ues of rom map and sde on the ata ets of pot ges and ten its .
ote hat the ity ces ted by map ave ive ues .
ing for rge gin ion .
the ker - nel ces ned by sde ier rom ose lly yed in vms , in hat hey aim to map uts nto an ( ely ) wer nal ure ace .
his ins oth our ive lts in ear men - ity ion ( ion 123 ) , as ell as our ive lts in rge gin ion ( ion 123 ) .
sde can lso be wed as an ive to ani - old ing hms uch as map ( aum et al . , 123 ) , lly ear ing ( lle ) ( eis & aul , 23; aul & eis , 123 ) , ian lle ( lle ) ( oho & mes , 123 ) , and ian aps ( kin & ogi , 123 ) .
all ese al - hms are a lar ure , ing a aph sed on est ors , ing an n n ma - rix rom ric ies of the uts , and con - ing an ing rom the ors ith the est or est ive ues .
a ore led ion of ces een ese lgo -
rly ble uts ( in ack sus ure 123
eft : ite ) led rom a a iss oll .
ght : ing the old ads to a ore ted ion ary .
hms is ven in a ion per ( ger & aul , 123 ) .
ere , we ent nly on eir ous ons as nel ods ( ham et al . , 123 ) .
in ral , ese her ods ive ise to ces ose ric ies as els are ess ust or not as ell ood .
for ple , ike sde , the ity rix ted by map rom ite ata ets can ave ive ues .
in ome ses , ver , ese ive ues can be cia - ble in ude to the ant ive nes : see fig .
ike oth sde and map , lle and lle uct ces ose tom ors eld low nal gs; to ret ese ces as els , eir ues ust be ped , her by ing the rix elf or by ing it rom a rge ple of the ity rix .
ver , it oes not ear hat ese ues can be sed to ate the sic ity of ing lds ( aul & eis , 123 ) .
a nel can be de - ved rom the ete ian by ing its ole in the eat ion ion , but the ion ned rom his ogy , in rms of ion mes ugh a ork , oes not ate tly to the ric ies of the nel rix .
sde nds art rom ese ods in its cit ion of a ive ite nel rix hat ves the ric ies of the uts up to cal try and ose ues ate the ity of the ing old .
we are ing any ons in ing ork .
the rst is to lop ter and lly dis - ted ( was & ye , 123 ) ods for ing the
123 ! 123 . 123 . 123 ! 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . sde nce of ite ing in sde and for out - of - ple ons ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
hus far we ave een ing ric ers ith a ely igh ime ity , ing on xes hat do not oit any ial ure in our lem .
we are lso ing any ons on the ive ion and nts in for ple , to al - low ome ack in the ion of cal ces and les , or to arn ngs nto res .
fi - lly , we are ing ore ive ons ith her ods in ear ity duc - ion .
not gly , aps , all ese ons re - ect a ore ral end ard the nce of rch in nel ods and old ing .
the ors are ful to s .
oyd and y .
ye ( tan - ord ) for ful ons of ite ram - ing and to the ous ers for any ful
