Abstract

Prior knowledge is often argued to be an important determinant in hypermedia learning,

and may be thought of as including two important elements: domain expertise and

system expertise.  However, there has been a lack of research considering these issues

together.  In an attempt to address this shortcoming, this paper presents a study that

examines how domain expertise and system expertise influence students learning

performance in, and perceptions of, a hypermedia system. The results indicate that

participants with lower domain knowledge show a greater improvement in their learning

performance than those with higher domain knowledge. Furthermore, those who enjoy

using the Web more are likely to have positive perceptions of non-linear interaction.

Discussions on how to accommodate the different needs of students with varying levels

of prior knowledge are provided based on the results.


Keywords:

Hypermedia Learning, Individual Differences, Domain Knowledge, System Experience






1. Introduction

In the past decade, the approaches embodied by learning technologies have shifted from

a behaviourist to a constructivist perspective, in which students need to actively

construct their understanding of subject matter (Littlejohn, 2002). Hypermedia is one of

these technologies. Unlike the linear structure of books and traditional computer-assisted

learning, hypermedia presents information with non-linear format (Khalifa and Lam,

2002). As suggested by Crook (1994), the format of information and the medium used to

present information have considerable impact on learning. The hypermedia format

supports a more flexible approach to instruction that helps students work with that

content from several different perspectives (Spiro, et al., 1992). In other words, students

are allowed to learn in their own ways  to make their own paths through the material

available (Barua, 2001)  and to learn things at their own pace (Chen, 2002).



However, with this increase in flexibility and freedom for the individual come potential

problems for some students. Hypermedia forces the students to decide their own

navigation strategies. Students who lack the skills of independent study may feel

confused because they are used to following their tutors instruction and may find it

difficult to decide their own learning paths  (Ford and Chen, 2000; Last et al., 2001). For

example, they may forget what they have already covered and run the risk of missing out

important information (Chen and Angelies, 2003; McDonald and Stevenson, 1998a).

This suggests that not all types of student appreciate the flexibility and freedom offered

by hypermedia systems and that the individual differences of students are therefore

important factors to be considered in the development of hypermedia learning systems.



1

Research into individual differences in hypermedia learning has highlighted a number of

attributes where individuals may differ, which may affect the way in which they learn

from and interact with hypermedia systems. These range from gender differences (e.g.,

Schumacher and Morahan-Martin, 2001), through cognitive styles (e.g., Kim, 2001;

Chen and Macredie, 2004), to prior knowledge (Last et al., 2001; Holscher and Strube,

2000). Among these attributes, prior knowledge has particularly been recognised as an

important attribute because it can influence how learners select information to place in

memory and link new information to that already stored in memory (Spyridakis and

Isakson, 1991). However, current research lacks a full understanding of how these are

related to hypermedia learning. Few studies consider both learners domain knowledge

and system experience, both of which are aspects of prior knowledge that are relevant to

learning using hypermedia systems. To address this gap, the study reported in this paper

aims to examine the influence of both domain knowledge and system experience on

users learning performance and perception of a hypermedia tutorial. It was hoped that

by assessing individuals learning experiences a greater understanding of the role of

domain knowledge and system experience in hypermedia learning could be reached.


This paper begins by building the theoretical background in order to understand the

factors that have significant effects on student learning in hypermedia systems. It then

progresses to discuss the current empirical study, which examines how individual

differences, particularly focusing on the differences of system experience and prior

domain knowledge, influence the students learning experiences in a hypermedia tutorial.

Finally, the findings of this study are discussed by comparing with those of previous

work and illustrating the implications for the design of hypermedia learning systems.



2

2. Theoretical Background

2.1 Hypermedia Learning

Hypermedia learning systems present course material in a non-linear structure, allow

learners to control their learning pace, and offer numerous types of navigation support

(Chen and Macredie, 2002). These features make hypermedia a useful learning

technology, offering advantages over traditional didactic learning methods (Khalifa and

Lam, 2002) and linear multimedia tutorials (Barua, 2001). In terms of non-linear

structure, students are provided with freedom of navigation, giving them opportunities to

select what information to access as well as how to sequence the information in a manner

that is meaningful to them (Lawless and Brown, 1997). In this way, learners can

construct their own individualised knowledge structures by cross-referencing the related

topics in the subject domain. It has even been claimed that the flexibility that hypermedia

offers in both structure and style may make it the most effective technology system to

date for individualizing instruction (Jonassen, 1988, p.14).



With regard to learner control, students are given control over the learning strategy

(Large, 1996). Hypermedia relies on learner control to be effective, since it is the student

who determines which nodes to visit. This differs from lectures, for example, which are

tutor-driven (Khafifa and Lam, 2002). Three types of learner control can be provided by

hypermedia learning: (a) pace control   enabling the student to select the pace of work;

(b) sequence control   allowing the student to decide the order in which to tackle lesson

components; and (c) content control   pertaining to the kind of material and to the depth

at which the material should be studied (Jarvey and Cote, 1999).





3

Navigation support is a critical design issue in hypermedia learning systems (Bateman

and Harvey, 1998; Rogers and Erickson, 1998). In respect of this issue, hypermedia

environments provide various support for learners to structure their navigation strategies,

including advanced organizers (Shapiro, 1999), graphical overviews (de Jong and van

der Hulst, 2002) and structural cues (Nilsson and Mayer, 2002; Hsu and Schwen, 2003).



These features may make hypermedia able to provide a rich learning environment.

However, these same features can also cause problems for some students because they

may feel overwhelmed with too many choices. For example, they may be bombarded

with non-linear structure and not know where to navigate next (Nielsen, 2000).

Therefore, the value of hypermedia learning depends on each individual and an

understanding of learners individual differences arguably becomes an important

consideration in hypermedia learning. In particular, many studies have found that

learners with different levels of prior knowledge benefit differently from hypermedia

learning systems, with experts and novices showing different perceptions to the use of

hypermedia learning systems and requiring different levels of navigational support (Shin

et al., 1994; McDonald and Stevenson, 1998a, 1998b; Calisir and Gurel, 2003).  In other

words, prior knowledge can determine how a learner acquires information from

hypermedia and influence his/her learning effectiveness in hypermedia systems

(Alexander et al., 1994; Last et al., 2001). Learners prior knowledge includes levels of

computing skills appropriate to the system, (i.e. system experience) and existing

understanding of the content area  (i.e. domain knowledge). The former refers to the

users knowledge of the system being used, including the general computing experience

and experience using hypermedia and the Web; the latter refers to users understanding

of the content of the material presented in the hypermedia system (Lazonder, 2000).



4

Previous studies have indicated that both have an impact on hypermedia learning, which

will be discussed in the following sections.


2.2 System Experience

In the past few years, several studies have examined the impact of system experience on

hypermedia learning. Among the various variables explained in previous studies,

navigation performance and navigation behaviour are the main issues discussed in

previous works. In terms of navigation performance, a study by Ford and Chen (2000)

looked at the effect of individual differences on users navigation behaviours and

learning performance when using an educational hypermedia system.  They found users

with higher system experience could browse more pages and could reach more detailed

levels of the subject content than those with lower levels of system experience.

Furthermore, Torkzadeh and Van Dyke (2002) examined the change in users Internet

self-efficacy between before and after their computer training, with the results of their

study indicating that computer training significantly improved Internet self-efficacy. In

other words, when the users transfer from low experience to high experience, their

Internet self-efficacy will be increased.


In addition, Lazonder et al. (2000) investigated the differences between novices and

experts in searching for information on the Web. 25 fourth-grade students were divided

into novice and expert classes on the basis of self-reported Web experience and a

proficiency test.  They found that experts performed significantly faster and better on

searches for sites using a search engine than did novices. Other studies also found similar

results, including Fidel et al. (1999) and Hill and Hannafin (1997). In general, these

studies suggest that users with more system experience have more efficient navigation



5

strategies than users with less experience. However, a study conducted by Fitzgerald and

Semrau (1998) obtained contradictory results. They compared the process and outcomes

of novice and expert teachers in a hypermedia-based learning program, which allowed

students non-linear learning and free access to information. The results of this study

revealed that novice teachers outperformed experts, leading Fitzgerald and Semrau

(1998) to conclude that the users performance will be not only dependent on the user

but the particular system being used.


With regard to navigation behaviours, numerous studies have shown that learners with

differing degrees of system experience have been shown differentially to prefer linear

and non-linear pathways through a hypermedia program. For example, Reed and

Oughton (1998) found that a low level of system experience had been linked to a

preference for linear pathways through a hypermedia program, while a high level of

system experience had been correlated with the choice of non-linear pathways.

Moreover, Pazzani (1991) also demonstrated the importance of system experience in

hypermedia learning, finding that experts profited most from a flexible path, whereas

novices benefited most from a more structured path.  This result is consistent with the

study by Gerdes (1997), which found that a linear structure is more suitable for novices.


In addition to linear and non-linear paths, studies have also found that system experience

influences the choice of navigation strategy. Farrell and Moore (2001) investigated

whether the use of different navigation tools (linear, main menu and search engine)

influenced users achievement and attitude. The results indicated a significant difference

for experts using the search engine. Other studies have also shown that experts are more

likely to make use of advanced search options, such as Boolean operators (Holscher and



6

Strube, 2000) and jump tools (e.g. Go, History, and Bookmark) (Kim, 2001). Novices,

on the other hand, tend to be less flexible in their navigation strategies (Hill and

Hannafin, 1997; Vassileva, 1996), and often return to previous stages of their search

rather than attempt to use different strategies (Holscher and Strube, 2000).


2.3 Domain Knowledge

As with system experience, domain knowledge of the subject content has been shown to

have an important influence on hypermedia learning, both in terms of the differences

exhibited in navigation behaviour and disorientation problems. In terms of navigation

behaviour, several studies report superior performance of domain experts over domain

novices, especially efficiency and effectiveness (Marchionini, 1995;  Patel, Drury, and

Shalin, 1998). Furthermore, domain knowledge has been found to positively correlate

with the number of navigational moves and the level of depth explored in the subject

hierarchy (Chen and Ford, 1998). Furthermore, individuals with a lower level of domain

knowledge have been shown to use longer queries (the number of words used to search)

than those with higher domain knowledge (Holscher and Strube, 2000). In addition,

whilst both users with high and low levels of knowledge benefit from navigational aids,

users with a lower level of domain knowledge tend to rely on navigational aids more

than those with a higher level of domain knowledge (McDonald and Stevenson, 1998b).


In respect of disorientation problems, previous studies have found that learners domain

knowledge influences the degree of disorientation in hypermedia systems.  Last et al.

(2001) conducted a qualitative study of 12 undergraduates where the levels of students

prior domain knowledge were decided by identifying whether they had had prior

exposure to the material.  They found that students with high domain knowledge of the



7

subject content were better able to navigate easily, remember where they had been, and

decide how to get to where they wanted to go.  These students reported more positive

feelings about using the system than did the low domain knowledge students and seemed

to suffer much less from frustration while performing their tasks.  The students with low

domain knowledge often suffered from disorientation, not knowing where they had been,

or where they could go to find the information that they needed.



Another study by McDonald and Stevenson (1998a) examined the effects of domain

knowledge on hypermedia navigation and showed that subjects who lacked sufficient

domain knowledge of the text topic demonstrated more disorientation problems than

subjects with high domain knowledge.  Non-knowledgeable learners tended to open

more additional notes, which indicated that they could not remember where they had

been and had problems in finding the information that they required. The studies

described above are consistent in suggesting that non-knowledgeable users experience

more disorientation problems in hypermedia learning. Compared with non-

knowledgeable users, knowledgeable users may experience fewer disorientation

problems in hypermedia because their deep levels of understanding of the subject matter

enable them to impose structure on the hypermedia content (McDonald and Stevenson,

1998a). Mohageg (1992) asserted that knowledgeable users navigating in a hypermedia

system might avoid disorientation because they already possess a mental representation

of the concepts in the domain that they are searching.  Therefore, there is a need to

provide non-knowledgeable users with appropriate navigational support that reduces

disorientation problems.





8

In addition to the results of the aforementioned studies, which suggest that students with

different levels of prior knowledge have different perceptions of hypermedia leaning,

several studies have indicated that students performed better in learning environments of

which they had more positive perceptions (Fullerton, 2000; Chen, 2002; Ghinea and

Chen, 2003). Therefore, there is a need to conduct further studies to identify the

perceptions of students possessing different levels of prior knowledge; the results of

these studies might help to guide the development and evaluation of hypermedia learning

systems. This paper presents such a study, which aims to examine the influence of

system experience and domain knowledge on students learning performance and

perception of a hypermedia tutorial, and subsequently discusses how to match relevant

system attributes with the needs of knowledgeable and non-knowledgeable students.



3.1 Participants

3. Research Design

The participants in the study were 74 undergraduate students enrolled in an

undergraduate Computer Science course at a university in London. All were taking the

subject Computation and Algorithms and they represented 37 percent of the students on

the course. The students were each paid 5 for their participation and were further

motivated to take part in the experiment by being told that the tutorial might help them to

learn the material associated with the subject.





9

3.2 Instruments

3.2.1 Hypermedia Tutorial

A hypermedia tutorial was created containing material from the Computation and

Algorithms module.  The tutorial included about 60 pages and the content was divided

into six sections.  Interface elements included: (a) a title bar located at the top of the

screen showing the section name being viewed; (b) a control panel with the choices for

menu, map, index, and the other available sections; and (c) the main body of the tutorial,

providing referenced links and subject categories for selection. Figure 1 shows the screen

design of this tutorial.





{Insert Figure 1}

The design of this tutorial was underpinned by considerations of non-linear interaction

and learner control. The tutorial provided the students with rich links within the text, as

well as a variety of navigation tools, including a map, an index, and a menu. In addition,

each topic was further split into four subject categories, comprising: (a) overview; (b)

pseudocode; (c) example; and (d) analysis. There were two types of overview, a general

content overview and overviews for each specific topic. In this way, the students were

given the freedom to decide their own learning paths and choose their favourite

navigation tools and preferred content presentation so that their perceptions of non-linear

interaction, navigation support, and content presentation could be identified by

examining their replies to items in the questionnaire.





10

3.2.2 Questionnaires

Two paper-based questionnaires were created. The first of these (Questionnaire 1) asked

for background information, such as age, gender, and nationality. In particular, it was

used to identify the students levels of prior knowledge of the subject domain (i.e., the

Computations and Algorithms module), for example, how familiar they were with the

module, how much they understand about this module from the lectures, and so on. It

also asked about their system experience, and enjoyment of using computers, the Web,

and Computer Aided Learning (CAL) programs, for example, how frequently they used

computers and the Web and how much they enjoyed using the computers, the Web and

the CAL. A five-point Likert scale was applied to identify users prior domain

knowledge and system experience.



The second questionnaire (Questionnaire 2) asked the students about their perceptions of

the hypermedia tutorial. According to the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) (Ajzen and

Fishbein, 1975), which has been used widely to predict behaviour, perceptions are

