un le al ai to di th st hi in th da , an to le re th ar mo su as in to a su ma th th ra in .
ma un me ar ba on re th in fr th re , wh co th re to ha ce - ta de pr ( e . g .
lo di , sp , et ) .
ot ar ba on ap de by st re th in fr th re - se .
we de a no an ef al to le sp re - ta , an co it th an ex wi a si ma tr pr , na a re bo ma .
we pr a si cr to co an se di un ma ba on th tr - of be th re er an th in co of th re .
we de th me by ex fe fr a da of ha nu , an fr a da of na im pa .
we sh th by st mu le of su ma an by tr se , hi - or de be th in ob va ca be ca .
on of th ma pu of un le is to pr go re fo da , th ca be us fo de , re , pr , or vi .
go re el ir va of th in da , wh pr th in th is us fo th ul - ti ta .
on ca fo th re re of in in un le is th ab to pr de fe hi by st un mo on to of ea ot , as pr - po by hi et al .
( 12 ) , be et al .
( 12 ) an ou gr ( 12 , 12 ) .
th un mo at on le in th hi is fe wi th re ve pr by th le be .
hi - le re ca hi - le de be in va , th im th ab of th sy to ca un re in th da .
th ou of th la la in th hi ca be fe to a co su cl .
a na wa to de st un le sy is th en - de pa ( 12 ) .
an en tr th in in th re ( al kn as th co or th fe ve ) , an a de re th in ( pe st ) fr th re - se .
pc , au - en ne ne , re bo ma ( rb ) , ou pr sp en - ba mo ( 12 ) , an th mo pr in ( 12 ) fo no ov ch ar ju ex of th ki of ar .
th en / de ar is at fo tw re - so : 12
af tr , co th co is a ve fa pr th me co in ru th in th th en 12
re th in wi th de pr a wa to ch th th co ha ca th re in in th da .
so le al ( 12 ) do no ha a de an mu re to co ex ma ch mo ca ( mc ) sa - pl me in or to pr re .
ot le al ( 12 , 12 ) la an en , wh ma it ne to ru an ex op al to nd th co as wi ea ne in sa .
in th pa we wi fo on on en - de ar .
in ge te , we ca vi an un mo as de a di ov in ve y th an en fu e ( y , z , w ) :
p ( y |w ) = zz
p ( y , z| ) = rz ee ( y , z , w ) ry , z ee ( y , z , w )
wh z is th co ve , w th tr pa of en an de , an is an ar po co .
th en fu in th re er , an pe ot te as we .
fo co , we wi om w fr th no in th fo .
tr th ma to mo th in di is pe by nd th en an de pa th mi a lo fu eq to th ne lo li of th tr da un th mo .
fo a si tr sa y , th lo fu is
l ( w , y ) =
th rs te is th fr en f ( y ) .
as th th di ov z is ra pe , it ca be si to ap th di ov z by it mo , wh tu th ma ov z in a mi :
l ( w , y ) = e ( y , z ( y ) ) +
wh z ( y ) is th ma li va z ( y ) = ar ( y , z ) , al kn as th op co .
we ca th de an en fo ea in po , th me ho we it is re by th mo :
f ( y ) = e ( y , z ( y ) ) = li
th se te in eq 12 an 12 is ca th lo pa fu , an ca be vi as a pe te fo lo en .
it en th th sy pr lo en on fo in ve th ha hi pr in th ( tr ) da di , an pr hi en fo al ot in ve ( 12 ) .
th ov lo is th av of th ab ov th tr se .
re of wh on z or th wh di ov z is co , th ma di wi th fr is th it ca be ve ha to co th gr of th lo pa fu in eq 12 or 12 wi re to th pa w .
ef me sh th co by dr an cl re th in do .
fo in , re bo ma - ch ( rb ) ( 12 ) ap th gr of th lo pa fu in eq 12 by sa va of y wh en wi be pu up us an mc te .
by ru th mc fo a sh ti , th sa ar ch in th vi of th tr sa , th en th th en su fo a ra ar th ma of th tr sa .
th is th ba of th co di me ( 12 ) .
th ro of th lo pa fu is me to en th th en su is lo ar tr sa th an el .
th me pr he el th lo pa fu fr th lo , an re it by a te th li th vo of th in sp ov wh th en su ca ta a lo va .
th is pe by ad a pe te on th co ra th on th in .
wh th cl of me do no di ma th li of th da , it ca be se as a cr ap of it .
to un th me , we rs no th if fo ea ve y , th ex a co op co z ( y ) th ma th re er ( or en ) f ( y ) ze ( or ne ze ) , th mo ca pe re an in ve .
th ma th en su at an in .
on th ot ha , if z ca on ta a sm nu of di va ( lo en co ) , th th en f ( y ) ca on be lo in a li nu of pl ( th y s th ar re fr th sm nu of z va ) , an th en ca
mo ge , a co me th wh at en su ca be av is to li th ma in co of th co .
he , mi th en f ( y ) to wi th in co of th co is a go su fo mi th lo pa fu .
a po wa to mi th in co in th co is to ma th co sp or lo - di ( 12 ) .
th te is us in a nu of un le me , in pc , au - en ne ne , an sp co me ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
in sp me , th co is fo to ha on a fe no - ze un wh mo co un ar ze mo of th ti .
sp - ov re ha a nu of th an pr ad , as de in a nu of re st ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
in pa , th ha go ro to no , an pr a go ti of th jo sp of lo an fr .
in ad , th ar ad fo cl be cl is mo li to be ea in hi di sp .
th ma ex wh bi se to li sp re ( 12 ) .
in ou co , th ma ad of sp co is to al us to re a ma by a mi , an to fr ou fr th ne to mi th lo pa fu ex .
in th pa we pr a ne un le al ca sp en sy ma ( se ) , wh is ba on th en - de pa , an wh is ab to pr sp ov re ef wi an ne fo lt no ( 12 , 12 ) or co sa ( 12 ) .
as de in mo de in se .
12 an 12 , we co a lo fu wh is a we su of th re er an a sp pe , as in ma ot un le al ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
en an de ar co to be sy , an sh a se of li lt .
al we on co li lt in th pa , th me al th us of an di fu fo en an de .
we pr an it on - li le al wh is cl re to th pr by ol an fi ( 12 ) an by us pr ( 12 ) .
th rs st co th op co by mi th en fo th gi in .
th se st up th pa of th ma so as to mi th en .
in se .
12 , we co se wi rb an pc .
fo ( 12 ) , we ev th me by me th re er fo a gi en of th co .
in an se of ex , we tr a cl on th fe ex by th va me , an me th cl er on th mn da of ha nu .
in , th ma ac th be re pe is th on wi th be tr - of be rm an en .
in se .
12 , we co th lt le by se an rb fo ha nu an na im pa .
in se . 12 . 12 , we de a si wa to pr a de be ne by st mu le of se mo .
th re po of th hi no - li fe ex is de th th un di of th nu cl la in th hi - le co .
in th se we de a sp en sy ma ( se ) ha a se of li l - te in bo en an de .
ho , ev ca be ea ex to an ot ch of pa fu as lo as th ar di an ma sy be en an de .
le us de wi y th in de in rn , an wi z th co de in rm , wh m is in ge gr th n ( fo ov re ) .
le th lt in en an de be th co of ma w rn m , an le th bi in th en an de be de by be rm an bd rn , re .
th , en an de co :
fe ( y ) = w t y + be ,
fd ( z ) = w l ( z ) + bd
wh th fu l is a po - wi lo no - li of th fo :
wi g xe ga .
th sy is ch by an en me th co be pa of in y an la co z , e ( y , z ) ( 12 ) .
th lo th en , th mo co ( or li ) is th pa .
we de th en as :
l ( x ) = 12 / ( 12 + ex ( gx ) ) ,
e ( y , z ) = ek fe ( y ) k1
12 + ky fd ( z ) k1
du tr we mi th fo lo :
l ( w , y ) = e ( y , z ) + sh ( z ) + rk k1
th rs te tr to ma th ou of th en as si as po to th co z .
th se te is th me - sq er be th in y an th re pr by th de .
12 + sh ( z ) + rk k1
= ek fe ( y ) k1
12 + ky fd ( z ) k1
ac in on ea co un an it is de as h ( z ) = pm
th th te en th sp of th co by pe no ze va of co un th te i= lo ( 12 ( zi ) ) , ( co - in to a fa st - t pr di on th no li tr co un ( 12 ) th th lo of eq 12 ) .
th la te is an l1 re on th lt to su no an fa mo lo lt .
th lo fo in eq 12 co te th ch al ot me .
fo in , th rs tw te ap in ou pr mo ( 12 ) , bu in th wo , th we of en an de we no ti an th pa in th lo we up - da us ru av .
th se an th te ar pr in th de - on mo pr in ( 12 ) .
th th te wa us in th en - on mo of ( 12 ) .
be th al - me ad of us an en - de ar , we po ou an go fe of th al du to it sy .
a co id fo sp - ov me us bo a re an a sp pe in th ob fu ( se an th te in eq 12 ) , is th ne to no th ba fu in th de du le ( 12 , 12 ) wi so ad - ho te , ot so of th ba fu co to ze , an so bl up to in .
be of th sp pe an th li re , co un be ti an ar co by th lt in th de th gr wi bo .
ev th th ov lo de , tr is un .
un , si no th lt ma le cl wh ob fu is mi .
so au ha pr qu ex me - od to so th is : by ma be ap of th po di ( 12 ) , or by us sa te ( 12 ) .
in th wo , we pr to en sy be en an de ( th we sh ) so as to ha au sc of lt .
th no ca po be la be co un , pr by th en we , wo ha la va as we , pr ba re an in th en ( th se te in eq 12 an
12 le al
le co of de th pa in w , be , an bd th mi th lo in eq 12
as in in th in , th en au wi th sp co is mi wi re to th co to nd th op co .
no ma ov co di - ti is pe .
th is ak to us th lo fu in eq 12
ho , th lo pa fu te is dr .
in , we re on th co sp co to en th th en su is no at .
si th se te in eq 12 co bo z an w an bd , it is no st to mi th en wi re to bo .
on th ot ha , on z is gi , th mi wi re to w is a co qu pr .
vi ve , if th pa w ar xe , th op co z th mi l ca be co ea th gr de .
th su th fo it on - li co de le al : 12
fo a gi sa y an pa se , mi th lo in eq 12 wi re to z by gr de to ob th op co z 12
cl bo th in y an th op co z fo at th pr st , do on st of gr de to up th pa .
un ot me ( 12 , 12 ) , no co no of w is re .
al , al th pa ar up by gr de un in ou pr wo ( 12 ) wh so pa ar up us a mo av .
af tr , th sy co to a st wh th de pr go re fr a sp co , an th op co is pr by a si fe - fo pr th
12 co co an
in th fo se , we ma co se wi rb in or to be un th di in te of ma li ap , an in te of co ef an as ex in th in , rb mi an ap of th ne lo li of th da un th mo .
an rb is a bi st sy ma de
al th is no by an en fu of th fo : e ( y , z ) = z t w t y bt ob at rs gl , th en ca be se as a sp ca of th en - de ar th pe to bi da ve an co ve ( 12 ) .
tr an rb mi an ap - ti of th ne lo li lo fu 12 , av ov th tr se , th a gr de pr .
in of es th gr of th lo pa fu , rb tr us co di ( 12 ) , wh ta ra sa dr ov a li re ar th tr sa .
th lo be :
l ( w , y ) =
be of th rb ar , gi a y , th co of z ar in , he th su ov co of z ca be do in fo ea co of z .
sa y in th ne is pe wi on , or a fe al mc st ov y , an z .
th me th on th en of po ar tr sa is pu up .
he , th li fu ta th ri sh ar th tr sa , bu no ne ev .
ho , th co ve in an rb is bi an no , an on ma wo wh th do no ha th ef of su li th in co of th co , th fu mi th lo pa fu as a bo .
rb an se ha al th sa ar be th bo ha a sy en an de , an a lo no - li on th to of th en .
ho , rb is tr us ( ap ) ma li , wh se is tr by si mi th av en f ( y ) of eq 12 wi an ad co sp te .
se re on th sp te to pr at en su , wh rb re on an ex co te in th lo , an ap of th lo pa fu .
al , th co st is ve di be co un ar no an bi in rb , wh th ar qu - bi an sp in se .
fe ex by se lo li ob pa ( se ne se ) , wh fe pr by rb la an in in be th ai at mo th in di an th ar us in a
12 ex co
p n ky fd ( z ) k1
in th rs ex we ha tr se , rb , an pc on th rs 12 di in th mn tr da ( 12 ) in or to pr co wi 12 co .
si to ( 12 ) we ha co te im co af th lo no li ( ex fo pc wh is li ) , an we ha me th ro me sq er ( rm ) an th en .
se wa ru fo di va of th sp co s in eq 12 ( wh al ot pa ar le un , se 12 , wh z is th un ne se fo de ) .
th rm is de as 12 qu co pr by th en , p is th nu of te sa , an is th es va of un in th in y .
as to en th ( qu ) co un in an wi th sa di , th lo bo on th nu of bi re to en ea of th p m , wh ci is th nu of co in th i - th bi , an q is th nu of qu le .
th nu of bi pe pi is th eq to : m n hc . u . .
un in ( 12 , 12 ) , th re is do ta th qu co in or to me th ro of th co to th qu no .
as sh in g .
12 - c , rb is ve ro to no in th co be it is tr by sa .
th op is tr fo pc wh ac th lo rm wh us hi pr co , bu th hi rm wh us a co qu .
se se to gi th be tr - of be rm an en .
12 - d / f co th fe le by se an rb .
de th si in th ar , lt lo qu di in ge , re tw di co st : di fo rb , an sp fo se .
is gi by : hc . u
p m lo
in th se ex , we ha co th me by me of a su ta in or to as wh me pr th mo di re .
si we ha av al th la in th mn , we ha us th co ( pr by th ma tr un ) as in to th sa li cl .
th is ru fo 12 ep to mi th sq er be ou an ta , an ha a mi ri re .
12 - a / b sh th re of th ex in ad to wh ca be ac by a li cl tr on th ra pi da .
no th : 12 ) tr on fe in of ra da im th re ( ex fo pc
sy sp co rb pc
pc : qu in 12 bi pc : qu in 12 bi rb : qu in 12 bi rb : qu in 12 bi sp co : qu in 12 bi sp co : qu in 12 bi
fi 12 : ( a ) - ( b ) er ra on mn tr ( wi 12 , 12 an 12 sa pe cl ) an te se pr by a li cl tr on th co pr by se , rb , an pc .
th en an rm re to a qu in 12 bi .
th co ha be ex al to th sa cl tr on ra pi da ( sh th ad of ex fe ) .
th er ba re to 12 st .
of th er ra fo 12 ra ch of tr da ( sa sp fo al me ) .
th pa s in eq .
12 ta va : 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 .
( c ) co be se , rb , an pc wh qu th co in 12 an 12 bi .
( d ) ra se fr th 12 li lt th we le by se ( s = 12 ) .
( e ) so pa of or an re di fr th co pr by th en in se ( fe - fo pr th en an de ) .
( f ) ra se of lt le by rb .
( g ) ba - pr in im sp of th lt le in th se st of th hi fe ex .
th se st wa tr on th no li tr co pr by th rs st ma .
th ba - pr ha be pe by us a 12 - of - 12 co in th se st ma , an pr th th th se st de an rs st de .
th lt at th se st di th cl - pr ( ma or fo vi co ) ev th no cl la wa ev us du tr .
( h ) fe ex fr 12 na im pa : so lt th we le .
wh th nu of tr sa is sm ) , 12 ) rb pe is co ov wh fe tr sa ar av , 12 ) th be pe is ac by se fo a sp le wh tr of rm fo en ( ov fo la tr se ) , 12 ) th me wi th be rm is no th on wi lo er ra , 12 ) co to a se ha th sa er ra rb is mo co in te of en .
th se de so ex we ha do wi se .
th co e in eq 12 ha al be se eq to 12 , an th ga in th lo ha be se eq to 12 in or to ac a qu - bi co .
th pa s ha to be se by cr - va to a va wh de on th le of sp re by th sp ap .
12 ha di
12 - b / e sh th re of tr a se wi s is eq to 12 .
tr wa pe on 12 di sc be 12 an 12 , by se r to 12 ( in eq 12 ) wi a le ra eq to 12 ( de ex ) .
fi de th st th ca be co to fo a di .
ev if th co un ac ha a ve sp di , re ar ve go ( no mi in co sp wa pe ) .
12 . 12 hi fe
a hi fe ex ca be tr la - by - la si to wh ha be pr in ( 12 , 12 ) fo tr de be ne ( db ) .
we ha tr a se ( hi ) st ma on th no li tr co pr by th rs ( lo ) st ma de in th pr ex .
we us ju 12 co to pr a hi le re wi ju 12 co .
si we ai to nd a 12 - of - 12 co we in th sp le ( in th se st ma ) by se s to 12
de th co un tr pr , th fe de in th se st ma lo li di pr as ca be se in g .
th hi un fe ex is ab to ca hi or co am th in pi in , an to di th hi no - li ma fr ra pi da to th cl la .
ch th ra in ca so le to th di of tw di sh of 12 wi a un en th 12 , fo in .
ne , re ar qu ve si to th on .
fo co , wh tr a db , pr ar no re be th le co is di am un .
12 na im pa
a se wi ab th sa se up wa tr on a da of 12 12 na im pa ra ex fr th be se da ( 12 ) .
th in im we si sc do to th ra ( 12 , 12 ) , wi ev su th me .
we ha co a 12 ti ov co wi 12 un .
th pa s , r an th le ra we se to 12 , 12 , an 12 re .
so lt ar lo ga - li ed de in di po an or , ot ar mo gl , an so en th me va ( se g
th ar tw st to tr un ma : 12 ) ha a co te in th lo fu mi du tr , 12 ) co th in re in su a wa th tr sa ca be be re th ot po in in sp .
we ha sh th rb , wh fa in th rs cl of me , is pa ro to ch no , it ac ve lo rm an go re ra .
we ha al pr a no sy sp en me fo th se st wh : is pa ef to tr , ha fa in , wo wi re an wi or ev me re fr th in , ca pr th be re pe an tr - of be en / rm , an ca be ea ex to a hi di hi st in th da .
we ha pr an ev pr to co di ma wh is ba on rm , en an , ev , er ra wh al
la ar av .
in , th ma ac th be pe in cl is th on wi th be tr - of be re er an en .
a fu av of wo is to un th re fo th co , an de co be th tw st .
we wi to th jo go , ge hi , an yo be fo he di .
th wo wa su in pa by ns gr ii - 12 to ca - le ob re , ns it - 12 ne di in pr le , an on gr n1 - 12 - 12 - 12 in an re of hi di da .
