uns lea alg aim to dis the str hid in the dat , and to lea rep tha are mor sui as inp to a sup mac tha the raw inp .
man uns met are bas on rec the inp fro the rep , whi con the rep to hav cer - tai des pro ( e . g .
low dim , spa , etc ) .
oth are bas on app den by sto rec the inp fro the rep - sen .
we des a nov and efc alg to lea spa rep - tat , and com it the and exp wit a sim mac tra pro , nam a res bol mac .
we pro a sim cri to com and sel dif uns mac bas on the tra - off bet the rec err and the inf con of the rep .
we dem thi met by ext fea fro a dat of han num , and fro a dat of nat ima pat .
we sho tha by sta mul lev of suc mac and by tra seq , hig - ord dep bet the inp obs var can be cap .
one of the mai pur of uns lea is to pro goo rep for dat , tha can be use for det , rec , pre , or vis .
goo rep eli irr var of the inp dat , whi pre the inf tha is use for the ul - tim tas .
one cau for the rec res of int in uns lea is the abi to pro dee fea hie by sta uns mod on top of eac oth , as pro - pos by hin et al .
( 123 ) , ben et al .
( 123 ) and our gro ( 123 , 123 ) .
the uns mod at one lev in the hie is fed wit the rep vec pro by the lev bel .
hig - lev rep cap hig - lev dep bet inp var , the imp the abi of the sys to cap und reg in the dat .
the out of the las lay in the hie can be fed to a con sup cla .
a nat way to des sta uns lea sys is the enc - dec par ( 123 ) .
an enc tra the inp int the rep ( als kno as the cod or the fea vec ) , and a dec rec the inp ( per sto ) fro the rep - sen .
pca , aut - enc neu net , res bol mac ( rbm ) , our pre spa ene - bas mod ( 123 ) , and the mod pro in ( 123 ) for noi ove cha are jus exa of thi kin of arc .
the enc / dec arc is att for two rea - son : 123
aft tra , com the cod is a ver fas pro tha mer con in run the inp thr the enc 123
rec the inp wit the dec pro a way to che tha the cod has cap the rel inf in the dat .
som lea alg ( 123 ) do not hav a dec and mus res to com exp mar cha mon car ( mcm ) sam - pli met in ord to pro rec .
oth lea alg ( 123 , 123 ) lac an enc , whi mak it nec to run an exp opt alg to nd the cod ass wit eac new inp sam .
in thi pap we wil foc onl on enc - dec arc .
in gen ter , we can vie an uns mod as den a dis ove inp vec y thr an ene fun e ( y , z , w ) :
p ( y |w ) = zz
p ( y , z|w ) = rz ee ( y , z , w ) ry , z ee ( y , z , w )
whe z is the cod vec , w the tra par of enc and dec , and is an arb pos con .
the ene fun inc the rec err , and per oth ter as wel .
for con , we wil omi w fro the not in the fol .
tra the mac to mod the inp dis is per by ndi the enc and dec par tha min a los fun equ to the neg log lik of the tra dat und the mod .
for a sin tra sam y , the los fun is
l ( w , y ) =
the rst ter is the fre ene f ( y ) .
ass tha the dis ove z is rat pea , it can be sim to app thi dis ove z by its mod , whi tur the mar ove z int a min :
l ( w , y ) = e ( y , z ( y ) ) +
whe z ( y ) is the max lik val z ( y ) = arg ( y , z ) , als kno as the opt cod .
we can the den an ene for eac inp poi , tha mea how wel it is rec by the mod :
f ( y ) = e ( y , z ( y ) ) = lim
the sec ter in equ 123 and 123 is cal the log par fun , and can be vie as a pen ter for low ene .
it ens tha the sys pro low ene onl for inp vec tha hav hig pro in the ( tru ) dat dis , and pro hig ene for all oth inp vec ( 123 ) .
the ove los is the ave of the abo ove the tra set .
reg of whe onl z or the who dis ove z is con , the mai dif wit thi fra is tha it can be ver har to com the gra of the log par fun in equ 123 or 123 wit res to the par w .
efc met sho the com by dra and cle red the int dom .
for ins , res bol ma - chi ( rbm ) ( 123 ) app the gra of the log par fun in equ 123 by sam val of y who ene wil be pul up usi an mcm tec .
by run the mcm for a sho tim , tho sam are cho in the vic of the tra sam , the ens tha the ene sur for a rav aro the man of the tra sam .
thi is the bas of the con div met ( 123 ) .
the rol of the log par fun is mer to ens tha the ene sur is low aro tra sam tha any els .
the met pro her eli the log par fun fro the los , and rep it by a ter tha lim the vol of the inp spa ove whi the ene sur can tak a low val .
thi is per by add a pen ter on the cod rat tha on the inp .
whi thi cla of met doe not dir max the lik of the dat , it can be see as a cru app of it .
to und the met , we rst not tha if for eac vec y , the exi a cor opt cod z ( y ) tha mak the rec err ( or ene ) f ( y ) zer ( or nea zer ) , the mod can per rec any inp vec .
thi mak the ene sur at and ind .
on the oth han , if z can onl tak a sma num of dif val ( low ent cod ) , the the ene f ( y ) can onl be low in a lim num of pla ( the y s tha are rec fro thi sma num of z val ) , and the ene can
mor gen , a con met thr whi at ene sur can be avo is to lim the max inf con of the cod .
hen , min the ene f ( y ) tog wit the inf con of the cod is a goo sub for min the log par fun .
a pop way to min the inf con in the cod is to mak the cod spa or low - dim ( 123 ) .
thi tec is use in a num of uns lea met , inc pca , aut - enc neu net , and spa cod met ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in spa met , the cod is for to hav onl a few non - zer uni whi mos cod uni are zer mos of the tim .
spa - ove rep hav a num of the and pra adv , as dem in a num of rec stu ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in par , the hav goo rob to noi , and pro a goo til of the joi spa of loc and fre .
in add , the are adv for cla bec cla is mor lik to be eas in hig dim spa .
thi may exp why bio see to lik spa rep ( 123 ) .
in our con , the mai adv of spa con is to all us to rep a mar by a min , and to fre our fro the nee to min the log par fun exp .
in thi pap we pro a new uns lea alg cal spa enc sym mac ( ses ) , whi is bas on the enc - dec par , and whi is abl to pro spa ove rep efc wit any nee for lte nor ( 123 , 123 ) or cod sat ( 123 ) .
as des in mor det in sec .
123 and 123 , we con a los fun whi is a wei sum of the rec err and a spa pen , as in man oth uns lea alg ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
enc and dec are con to be sym , and sha a set of lin lte .
alt we onl con lin lte in thi pap , the met all the use of any dif fun for enc and dec .
we pro an ite on - lin lea alg whi is clo rel to tho pro by ols and fie ( 123 ) and by us pre ( 123 ) .
the rst ste com the opt cod by min the ene for the giv inp .
the sec ste upd the par of the mac so as to min the ene .
in sec .
123 , we com ses wit rbm and pca .
fol ( 123 ) , we eva the met by mea the rec err for a giv ent of the cod .
in ano set of exp , we tra a cla on the fea ext by the var met , and mea the cla err on the mni dat of han num .
int , the mac ach the bes rec per is the one wit the bes tra - off bet rms and ent .
in sec .
123 , we com the lte lea by ses and rbm for han num and nat ima pat .
in sec . 123 . 123 , we des a sim way to pro a dee bel net by sta mul lev of ses mod .
the rep pow of thi hie non - lin fea ext is dem thr the uns dis of the num cla lab in the hig - lev cod .
in thi sec we des a spa enc sym mac ( ses ) hav a set of lin l - ter in bot enc and dec .
how , eve can be eas ext to any oth cho of par fun as lon as the are dif and mai sym bet enc and dec .
let us den wit y the inp den in rn , and wit z the cod den in rm , whe m is in gen gre tha n ( for ove rep ) .
let the lte in enc and dec be the col of mat w rn m , and let the bia in the enc and dec be den by ben rm and bde rn , res .
the , enc and dec com :
fen ( y ) = w t y + ben ,
fde ( z ) = w l ( z ) + bde
whe the fun l is a poi - wis log non - lin of the for :
wit g xed gai .
the sys is cha by an ene mea the com bet pai of inp y and lat cod z , e ( y , z ) ( 123 ) .
the low the ene , the mor com ( or lik ) is the pai .
we den the ene as :
l ( x ) = 123 / ( 123 + exp ( gx ) ) ,
e ( y , z ) = ekz fen ( y ) k12
123 + ky fde ( z ) k12
dur tra we min the fol los :
l ( w , y ) = e ( y , z ) + sh ( z ) + rkw k12
the rst ter tri to mak the out of the enc as sim as pos to the cod z .
the sec ter is the mea - squ err bet the inp y and the rec pro by the dec .
123 + sh ( z ) + rkw k12
= ekz fen ( y ) k12
123 + ky fde ( z ) k12
act ind on eac cod uni and it is den as h ( z ) = pm
the thi ter ens the spa of the cod by pen non zer val of cod uni thi ter i=1 log ( 123 ( zi ) ) , ( cor - ing to a fac stu - t pri dis on the non lin tra cod uni ( 123 ) thr the log of equ 123 ) .
the las ter is an l12 reg on the lte to sup noi and fav mor loc lte .
the los for in equ 123 com ter tha cha als oth met .
for ins , the rst two ter app in our pre mod ( 123 ) , but in tha wor , the wei of enc and dec wer not tie and the par in the log wer up - dat usi run ave .
the sec and thi ter are pre in the dec - onl mod pro in ( 123 ) .
the thi ter was use in the enc - onl mod of ( 123 ) .
bes the alr - men adv of usi an enc - dec arc , we poi out ano goo fea of thi alg due to its sym .
a com idi for spa - ove met usi bot a rec and a spa pen in the obj fun ( sec and thi ter in equ 123 ) , is the nee to nor the bas fun in the dec dur lea ( 123 , 123 ) wit som ad - hoc tec , oth som of the bas fun col to zer , and som blo up to inn .
bec of the spa pen and the lin rec , cod uni bec tin and are com by the lte in the dec tha gro wit bou .
eve tho the ove los dec , tra is uns .
unf , sim nor the lte mak les cle whi obj fun is min .
som aut hav pro qui exp met - ods to sol thi iss : by mak bet app of the pos dis ( 123 ) , or by usi sam tec ( 123 ) .
in thi wor , we pro to enf sym bet enc and dec ( thr wei sha ) so as to hav aut sca of lte .
the nor can pos be lar bec cod uni , pro by the enc wei , wou hav lar val as wel , pro bad rec and inc the ene ( the sec ter in equ 123 and
123 lea alg
lea con of det the par in w , ben , and bde tha min the los in equ 123
as ind in the int , the ene aug wit the spa con is min wit res to the cod to nd the opt cod .
no mar ove cod dis - tio is per .
thi is aki to usi the los fun in equ 123
how , the log par fun ter is dro .
ins , we rel on the cod spa con to ens tha the ene sur is not at .
sin the sec ter in equ 123 cou bot z and w and bde , it is not str to min thi ene wit res to bot .
on the oth han , onc z is giv , the min wit res to w is a con qua pro .
vic ver , if the par w are xed , the opt cod z tha min l can be com eas thr gra des .
thi sug the fol ite on - lin coo des lea alg : 123
for a giv sam y and par set , min the los in equ 123 wit res to z by gra des to obt the opt cod z 123
cla bot the inp y and the opt cod z fou at the pre ste , do one ste of gra des to upd the par .
unl oth met ( 123 , 123 ) , no col nor of w is req .
als , all the par are upd by gra des unl in our pre wor ( 123 ) whe som par are upd usi a mov ave .
aft tra , the sys con to a sta whe the dec pro goo rec fro a spa cod , and the opt cod is pre by a sim fee - for pro thr
123 com cod ana
in the fol sec , we mai com ses wit rbm in ord to bet und the dif in ter of max lik app , and in ter of cod efc and as exp in the int , rbm min an app of the neg log lik of the dat und the mod .
an rbm is a bin sto sym mac den
alt thi is not by an ene fun of the for : e ( y , z ) = z t w t y bt obv at rst gla , thi ene can be see as a spe cas of the enc - dec arc tha per to bin dat vec and cod vec ( 123 ) .
tra an rbm min an app - tio of the neg log lik los fun 123 , ave ove the tra set , thr a gra des pro .
ins of est the gra of the log par fun , rbm tra use con div ( 123 ) , whi tak ran sam dra ove a lim reg aro the tra sam .
the los bec :
l ( w , y ) =
bec of the rbm arc , giv a y , the com of z are ind , hen the sum ove con of z can be don ind for eac com of z .
sam y in the nei is per wit one , or a few alt mcm ste ove y , and z .
thi mea tha onl the ene of poi aro tra sam is pul up .
hen , the lik fun tak the rig sha aro the tra sam , but not nec eve .
how , the cod vec in an rbm is bin and noi , and one may won whe thi doe not hav the eff of sur lim the inf con of the cod , the fur min the log par fun as a bon .
rbm and ses hav alm the sam arc bec the bot hav a sym enc and dec , and a log non - lin on the top of the enc .
how , rbm is tra usi ( app ) max lik , whi ses is tra by sim min the ave ene f ( y ) of equ 123 wit an add cod spa ter .
ses rel on the spa ter to pre at ene sur , whi rbm rel on an exp con ter in the los , an app of the log par fun .
als , the cod str is ver dif bec cod uni are noi and bin in rbm , whi the are qua - bin and spa in ses .
fea ext by ses loo lik obj par ( see nex sec ) , whi fea pro by rbm lac an int int bec the aim at mod the inp dis and the are use in a
123 exp com
p n ky fde ( z ) k12
in the rst exp we hav tra ses , rbm , and pca on the rst 123 dig in the mni tra dat ( 123 ) in ord to pro cod wit 123 com .
sim to ( 123 ) we hav col tes ima cod aft the log non lin ( exc for pca whi is lin ) , and we hav mea the roo mea squ err ( rms ) and the ent .
ses was run for dif val of the spa coe s in equ 123 ( whi all oth par are lef unc , see 123 , whe z is the uni nex sec for det ) .
the rms is den as 123 qua cod pro by the enc , p is the num of tes sam , and is the est var of uni in the inp y .
ass to enc the ( qua ) cod uni ind and wit the sam dis , the low bou on the num of bit req to enc eac of the p m , whe ci is the num of cou in the i - th bin , and q is the num of qua lev .
the num of bit per pix is the equ to : m n hc . u . .
unl in ( 123 , 123 ) , the rec is don tak the qua cod in ord to mea the rob of the cod to the qua noi .
as sho in g .
123 - c , rbm is ver rob to noi in the cod bec it is tra by sam .
the opp is tru for pca whi ach the low rms whe usi hig pre cod , but the hig rms whe usi a coa qua .
ses see to giv the bes tra - off bet rms and ent .
123 - d / f com the fea lea by ses and rbm .
des the sim in the arc , lte loo qui dif in gen , rev two dif cod str : dis for rbm , and spa for ses .
is giv by : hc . u
p m log
in the sec exp , we hav com the met by mea of a sup tas in ord to ass whi met pro the mos dis rep .
sin we hav ava als the lab in the mni , we hav use the cod ( pro by the mac tra uns ) as inp to the sam lin cla .
thi is run for 123 epo to min the squ err bet out and tar , and has a mil rid reg .
123 - a / b sho the res of the exp in add to wha can be ach by a lin cla tra on the raw pix dat .
not tha : 123 ) tra on fea ins of raw dat imp the rec ( exc for pca
sym spa cod rbm pca
pca : qua in 123 bin pca : qua in 123 bin rbm : qua in 123 bin rbm : qua in 123 bin spa cod : qua in 123 bin spa cod : qua in 123 bin
fig 123 : ( a ) - ( b ) err rat on mni tra ( wit 123 , 123 and 123 sam per cla ) and tes set pro by a lin cla tra on the cod pro by ses , rbm , and pca .
the ent and rms ref to a qua int 123 bin .
the com has bee ext als to the sam cla tra on raw pix dat ( sho the adv of ext fea ) .
the err bar ref to 123 std .
of the err rat for 123 ran cho of tra dat ( sam spl for all met ) .
the par s in eq .
123 tak val : 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 .
( c ) com bet ses , rbm , and pca whe qua the cod int 123 and 123 bin .
( d ) ran sel fro the 123 lin lte tha wer lea by ses ( s = 123 ) .
( e ) som pai of ori and rec dig fro the cod pro by the enc in ses ( fee - for pro thr enc and dec ) .
( f ) ran sel of lte lea by rbm .
( g ) bac - pro in ima spa of the lte lea in the sec sta of the hie fea ext .
the sec sta was tra on the non lin tra cod pro by the rst sta mac .
the bac - pro has bee per by usi a 123 - of - 123 cod in the sec sta mac , and pro thi thr the sec sta dec and rst sta dec .
the lte at the sec sta dis the cla - pro ( man ord for vis con ) eve tho no cla lab was eve use dur tra .
( h ) fea ext fro 123 nat ima pat : som lte tha wer lea .
whe the num of tra sam is sma ) , 123 ) rbm per is com ove whe few tra sam are ava , 123 ) the bes per is ach by ses for a spa lev whi tra off rms for ent ( ove for lar tra set ) , 123 ) the met wit the bes rms is not the one wit low err rat , 123 ) com to a ses hav the sam err rat rbm is mor cos in ter of ent .
thi sec des som exp we hav don wit ses .
the coe e in equ 123 has alw bee set equ to 123 , and the gai in the log hav bee set equ to 123 in ord to ach a qua - bin cod .
the par s has to be set by cro - val to a val whi dep on the lev of spa req by the spe app .
123 han dig
123 - b / e sho the res of tra a ses wit s is equ to 123 .
tra was per on 123 dig sca bet 123 and 123 , by set r to 123 ( in equ 123 ) wit a lea rat equ to 123 ( dec exp ) .
fil det the str tha can be com to for a dig .
eve if the cod uni act has a ver spa dis , rec are ver goo ( no min in cod spa was per ) .
123 . 123 hie fea
a hie fea ext can be tra lay - by - lay sim to wha has bee pro in ( 123 , 123 ) for tra dee bel net ( dbn ) .
we hav tra a sec ( hig ) sta mac on the non lin tra cod pro by the rst ( low ) sta mac des in the pre exa .
we use jus 123 cod to pro a hig lev rep wit jus 123 com .
sin we aim to nd a 123 - of - 123 cod we inc the spa lev ( in the sec sta mac ) by set s to 123
des the com uns tra pro , the fea det in the sec sta mac loo lik dig pro as can be see in g .
the hie uns fea ext is abl to cap hig ord cor amo the inp pix int , and to dis the hig non - lin map fro raw pix dat to the cla lab .
cha the ran ini can som lea to the dis of two dif sha of 123 wit a uni enc the 123 , for ins .
nev , res are qua ver sim to thi one .
for com , whe tra a dbn , pro are not rec bec the lea cod is dis amo uni .
123 nat ima pat
a ses wit abo the sam set up was tra on a dat of 123 123 nat ima pat ran ext fro the ber seg dat ( 123 ) .
the inp ima wer sim sca dow to the ran ( 123 , 123 ) , wit eve sub the mea .
we hav con a 123 tim ove cod wit 123 uni .
the par s , r and the lea rat wer set to 123 , 123 , and 123 res .
som lte are loc gab - lik edg det in dif pos and ori , oth are mor glo , and som enc the mea val ( see g
the are two str to tra uns mac : 123 ) hav a con ter in the los fun min dur tra , 123 ) con the int rep in suc a way tha tra sam can be bet rec tha oth poi in inp spa .
we hav sho tha rbm , whi fal in the rst cla of met , is par rob to cha noi , it ach ver low rms and goo rec rat .
we hav als pro a nov sym spa enc met fol the sec str whi : is par efc to tra , has fas inf , wor wit req any wit or eve mea rem fro the inp , can pro the bes rec per and tra - off bet ent / rms , and can be eas ext to a hie dis hid str in the dat .
we hav pro an eva pro to com dif mac whi is bas on rms , ent and , eve , err rat whe als
lab are ava .
int , the mac ach the bes per in cla is the one wit the bes tra - off bet rec err and ent .
a fut ave of wor is to und the rea for thi coi , and dee con bet the two str .
we wis to tha jon goo , geo hin , and yos ben for hel dis .
thi wor was sup in par by nsf gra iis - 123 tow cat - lev obj rec , nsf itr - 123 new dir in pre lea , and onr gra n12 - 123 - 123 - 123 int and rep of hig dim dat .
