mem - bas cla alg suc as rad bas fun ( cid : 123 ) tio or k - nea nei typ rel on sim dis ( eu ( cid : 123 ) cli , dot pro . . .
) , whi are not par mea on pat vec .
mor com , bet sui dis mea are oft exp and rat ad - hoc ( ela mat , def tem ) .
we pro a new dis mea whi ( a ) can be mad loc inv to any set of tra of the inp and ( b ) can be com eff .
we tes the met on lar han cha dat pro by the pos off and the nis .
usi inv wit res to tra , rot ( cid : 123 ) tio , sca , she and lin thi , the met con out all oth sys tes on the sam dat .
dis - bas cla alg suc as rad bas fun or k - nea nei oft rel on sim dis ( suc as euc dis , ham dis , etc . ) .
as a res , the suf fro a ver hig sen to sim tra of the inp pat tha sho lea the cla unc ( e . g .
tra or sca for 123 ima ) .
thi is ill in fig .
123 whe an unl ima of a " 123 " mus be cla by fin the clo pro ima out of two ima rep res a " 123 " and a " 123 " .
acc to the euc dis ( sum of the squ of the pix to pix dif ) , the " 123 " is clo eve tho the " 123 " is muc mor sim onc it has bee rot and thi .
the res is an inc cla .
the key ide is to con a dis mea whi is inv wit res to som cho tra suc as tra , rot and oth .
the spe cas of lin tra has bee wel stu in sta and is som ref to as pro ana
eff pat rec usi a new tra dis
fig 123 : wha is a goo sim mea ? acc to the euc dis the pat to be cla is mor sim to pro b .
a bet dis mea wou fin tha pro a is clo bec it dif mai by a rot and a thi tra , two tra whi sho lea the cla
( sib , 123 ) .
it has bee app to on - lin cha rec ( sin and thi pap con the mor gen cas of non - lin tra suc as geo tra of gra - lev ima .
rem tha eve a sim ima tra cor to a hig non - lin tra in the hig ( cid : 123 ) dim pix spa l .
in pre wor ( sim et al . , 123 ) , we sho how a neu net cou be tra to be inv wit res to sel tra ( cid : 123 ) mat of the inp .
vve now app sim ide to dis - bas cla .
' ' ' ' hen a pat p is tra ( e . g .
rot ) wit a tra s tha dep on one par a ( e . g .
the ang of the rot ) , the set of all the tra pat sp = ( x i 123 suc tha x = s ( 123 , p ) ) is a one - dim cur in the vec spa of the inp ( see fig .
in cer cas , suc as rot of dig ima , thi cur mus be mad con usi smo tec ( see ( sim et al . , 123 ) ) .
whe the set of tra is par by n par ai ( rot , tra , sca , etc . ) , sp is a man of at mos n dim .
the pat in sp tha are obt thr sma tra of p , i . e .
the par of sp tha is clo to p , can be app by a pla tan to the man sp at the poi p .
sma tra of p can be obt by add to p a lin com of vec tha spa the tan pla ( tan vec ) .
the ima at the bot of fig .
123 wer obt by tha pro .
tan vec for a tra s can eas be com by fin dif ( eva os ( a , p ) / oa ) ; mor det can be fou in ( sim et al . , 123 sim et al . , 123 ) .
as we men ear , the euc dis bet two pat p and e is in gen not app bec it is sen to irr tra of p and of e .
in con , the dis v ( e , p ) def to be the min dis ( cid : 123 ) tan bet the two man sp and se is tru inv wit res to the tra use to gen sp and se .
unf , the man hav no ana exp in gen , and fin the dis bet the is a har opt pro wit mul loc min .
bes , t . rue inv is not
123 if the ima . ge of a " 123 " is tra ver . lly upw , the mid top pix wil osc
fro bla to whi thr tim .
sim , cun , and den
tru rot of p
tra at p
_ _ . . . . . . . . . .
fig 123 : top : sma rot of an ori dig ima of the dig " 123 " .
mid : rep of the eff of the rot in pix spa ( if the wer onl 123 pix ) .
bot : ima obt by mov alo the tan to the tra cur for the sam ori dig ima p by add var amo ( a ) of the tan vec ( t . v . ) .
nec des sin a rot of a " 123 " int a " 123 " doe not pre the cor our app con of app the non - lin man sp and se by lin sur and com the dis d ( e , p ) def to be the min dis bet the .
thi sol thr pro at onc : 123 ) lin man hav sim ana exp whi can be eas com and sto , 123 ) fin the min dis bet lin man is a sim lea squ pro whi can be sol eff and , 123 ) thi dis is loc inv . nt but not glo inv .
thu the dis bet a " 123 " and a sli rot . ted " 123 " is sma but the dis bet a " 123 " and a " 123 " is la . rge .
the dif .
dis ces bet p and e are rep sch in fig .
the fig rep two pat p and e in 123 - dim spa .
the ma . nif gen by s are rep by one - dim cur goi thr e and p res .
the lin app to the man are rep by lin tan to the cur at e and p .
the lin do not int in 123 dim and the sho dis bet the ( uni def ) is d ( e , p ) .
the dis bet the two non - lin tra cur vee , p ) is als sho on the an eff imp of the tan dis d ( e , p ) wil be giv in the
eff pat rec usi a new tra dis
fig 123 : ill of the euc dis and the tan dis bet p and e
nex sec .
alt the tan dis can be app to any kin of pat ( cid : 123 ) ter rep as vec , we hav con our eff on app to ima rec .
com of tan dis wit the bes kno com met wil be des .
fin we wil dis pos var on the tan dis and how it can be gen to pro oth tha pat rec .
in thi sec we des for the com of the tan dis .
let the fun s whi map u , a to s ( a , u ) be a dif tra of the inp spa , dep on a vec a of par , ver s ( o , u ) = ' it .
if u is a 123 dim ima for ins , s ( a , u ) cou be a rot of u by the ang & .
if we are int in all tra of ima whi con dis ( iso ) , 123 ( a , u ) wou be a rot by a r fol by a tra by ax , a y of the ima u .
in thi cas & = ( ar , ax , a y ) is a vec of par of dim 123
in gen , & = ( ao , . .
" am - d is of dim m .
sin 123 is dif , the set stl .
= ( x i 123 for whi x = 123 ( a , ' it ) ) is a dif ( cid : 123 ) tia man whi can be app to the fir ord by a hyp ttl . .
thi hyp is tan to stl .
at u and is gen by the col of mat
= 123 ( & ~ ' it ) i = ( 123 ( & , u ) , . . .
, 123 ( a , u ) )
whi are vec tan to the man .
if e and p are two pat to be com , the res tan pla te and tp can be use to def a new dis d bet the two pat .
the tan dis d ( e , p ) bet e and p is def by
d ( e , p ) = min
iix - yw
the equ of the tan pla te and tp is giv by :
sim , cun , and den
whe le and lp are the mat con the tan vec ( see eq .
123 ) and the vec a e and ap are the coo of e ' and p ' in the cor tan pla .
the qua le and lp are att of the pat so in man cas the can be pre and sto .
com the tan dis
amo to sol a lin lea squ pro .
the opt con is tha the par der of d ( e , p ) wit res to a p and ae sho be zer :
od ( ~ , p ) = 123 ( e ' ( ae ) _ p ' ( ap t le = 123 od ( ~ , p ) = 123 ( p ' ( ap ) _ e ' ( aet lp = 123
sub e ' and p ' by the exp yie to the fol lin sys of equ , whi we mus sol for ap and ile :
l; ( e - p - lpi + lea ) = 123 lf ( e - p - lpa + lei ) = 123
the sol of thi sys is
( lpe " e12 ~ - l; ) ( e - p ) = ( lpe " e12 - lpp ) ap ( lep ~ l; - l ~ ) ( e - p ) = ( lee - lep ~ lpe ) ae
whe lee = lft le , lpe = l ~ le ' l ep = l ~ lp and lpp = l ~ lp .
lu dec 123 lee and lpp can be pre .
the mos exp par in sol thi sys is eva lep ( lpe can be obt by tra lep ) .
it req me x mp dot pro , whe me is the num of tan vec for e and mp is the num of tan vec for p .
onc lep has bee com , ilp and ile can be com by sol two ( sma ) lin sys of res me and mp equ .
the tan dis is obt by com iie ' ( ae ) - p ' ( ap ) 123 usi the val of a p and ile in equ 123 and 123
if n is the len of vec e ( or p ) , the alg des abo req rou n ( me+ ) ( mp+ ) +12 ( m ~ +m ~ ) mul - add .
app to the tan dis can be com mor
bef giv the res of han dig rec exp , we wou lik to dem the pro of " loc inv " of tan dis .
a 123 by 123 pix ima sim to the " 123 " in fig 123 was tra by var amo .
the tan dis ( usi the tan vec cor to hor . l tra ) and the euc dis bet the ori ima and its tra ver wer mea as a fun of the siz k ( in pix ) of the tra .
the res is plo in fig .
it is cle tha the euc dis sta inc lin wit k whi the tan dis rem ver sma for tra as lar as two pix .
thi ind tha , whi euc dis is not inv to tra ( cid : 123 ) lat , tan dis is loc inv .
the ext of the inv can be
eff pat rec usi a new tra dis
~ ~ ~ ~ 123 # of pix by whi ima is tra
fig 123 : euc and tan dis bet a 123 han dig ima and its tra ver as a fun of the amo of tra mea in
inc by smo the ori ima , but sig fea may be blu awa , lea to con err .
the fig is not sym for lar tra bec the tra ima is tru to the 123 by 123 pix fie of the ori ima .
in the fol exp , smo was don by con wit a gau of sta dev u = 123 .
thi val , whi was est vis , tur out to be nea opt ( but not cri ) .
123 han dig rec
exp wer con to eva the per of tan dis for han dig rec .
an int cha of dig ima is tha we can rea ide a set of loc tra whi do not aff the ide of the cha , whi cov a lar por of the set of pos ins of the cha .
sev suc ima tra wer ide : x and y tra , rot , sca , two hyp tra ( whi can gen she and squ ) , and lin thi or thi .
the fir six tra wer cho to spa the set of all pos lin coo tra in the imn ~ e pla ( nev , the cor to hig non - lin tra in pix spa ) .
add tra hav bee tri wit les suc .
the sim pos use of tan dis is in a nea nei cla .
a set of pro is sel fro a tra set , and sto in mem .
whe a tes pat is to be cla , the j ( nea pro ( in ter of tan dis ( cid : 123 ) tan ) are fou , and the pat is giv the cla tha has the maj amo the nei .
in our app , the siz of the pro set is in the nei of 123 , 123
in pri , cla a pat wou req com 123 , 123 tan ( cid : 123 ) gen dis , lea to exc cla tim , des the eff of the tan dis com .
for , two pat tha are ver far apa in ter of euc dis are lik to be far apa in ter of tan dis .
the we can use euc dis as a " pre " , and eli pro tha are unl to be amo the nea nei .
v ' le use the fol 123 - ste cla pro : 123 ) the euc dis is com bet the tes pat and all the pro , 123 ) the clo 123 pro are sel , 123 ) the tan dis bet the 123 pro and the tes pat is com
sim , cun , and den
hum t - dls nne
hum t - dls nne
fig 123 : com of the err rat of tan nea nei and oth met on two han dig dat
and 123 ) the mos rep lab amo the j ( clo pro is out .
thi pro is two ord of mag fas tha com all 123 , 123 tan dis , and yie the sam per .
us pos ser dat : in the fir exp , the dat con of 123 by 123 pix siz - nor ima of han dig , com fro us mai env .
the ent tra set of 123 exa of was use as the pro set .
the tes set con 123 pat .
the bes per was obt wit the " one nea nei ~ bor " rul .
the res are plo in fig .
the err rat of the met is 123 .
two mem of our gro lab the tes set by han wit an err rat of 123 ( usi one of the lab as the tru to tes the oth als yie 123 err rat ) .
thi is a goo ind of the lev of dif of thi tas .
the per of our bes neu net ( le cun et al . , 123 ) was 123 .
the per of one nea nei wit the euc dis was 123 .
the res sho tha tan dis per sub bet tha bot sta k - nea nei and neu net .
nis dat : the sec exp was a com org by the n 123 , ( cid : 123 ) tio ins of sta and tec .
the obj of the com was to cla a tes set of 123 , 123 han dig , giv a tra set of 123 , 123 pat .
a tot of 123 alg wer sub fro 123 com fro 123 dif ( cid : 123 ) ent cou .
sin the tra set was so big , a ver sim pro was use to sel abo 123 , 123 pat as pro .
the pro con of cre a new dat ( emp at the beg ) , and cla eac pat of the lar dat usi the new dat as a pro set .
eac tim an err is mad , the pat is add to the new dat .
mor tha one pas may hav to be mad bef the new dat is sta .
sin thi fil pro wou tak too lon wit 123 , 123 pro , we spl the lar dat int 123 sma dat of 123 , 123 pat eac , fil tho ( to abo 123 pat ) and con the res , yie a dat of rou 123 , 123 pat .
thi pro has man dra , and in par , it is ver goo at pic up mis cha in the tra set .
to cou thi unf eff , a 123 nea nei pro was use wit tan dis .
the org dec to col the
123 is an ext dif tes set .
pro tha ach les tha 123 err on
oth han dig tas bar ach les tha 123 on thi one
eff pat rec usi a new tra dis
tra set and the tes set amo two ver dif pop ( cen bur wor for the tra set , hig - sch stu for the tes set ) , we the re ( cid : 123 ) por res on the off nis tes set ( nam " har tes set " ) , and on a sub of the off tra set , whi we kep asi for tes pur ( the " eas tes set " ) .
the res are sho in fig .
the per is muc wor on the har tes set sin the dis was ver dif fro tha of the tra set .
out of the 123 par who use the nis tra dat , tan dis fin fir .
the ove win did not use the tra set pro by nis ( he use a muc lar pro tra set ) , and the was not aff by the dif dis in the tra set and tes set .
the tan dis alg des in the imp sec can be imp / adj in at lea fou dif way : 123 ) app the tan dis for bet spe 123 ) mod the tan dis its , 123 ) cha the set of tra / tan vec and 123 ) usi the tan dis wit cla ( cid : 123 ) sif alg oth tha k - nea nei , per in com , to min the num of pro .
we wil dis eac of the asp in tur .
app : the dis bet two hyp te and tp goi thr p and e can be app by com the pro pee ) of pon te and pp ( e ) of e ont tp .
the dis iip ( p ) - pp ( e ) 123 can be com in o ( n ( me + mp mul - add and is a fai goo app of d ( e , p ) .
thi app can be imp at ver low cos by com the clo poi bet the lin def by ( e , pee ~ and ( p , pp ( e .
thi app was use wit no los of per to red the num of com tan dis fro 123 to 123 ( thi inv an add " pre " ) .
in the cas of ima , ano tim - sav ide is to com tan dis on pro sma set of pro hig res ima .
cha the dis : one may wor tha the tan pla of e and p may be par and be ver clo at a ver dis reg ( a bad sid eff of the lin a . ppr ) .
thi eff can be lim by imp a con of the for ila < f ( e and lia < f ( p .
thi con was imp but did not yie bet res .
the rea is tha tan pla are mos ort in hig dim spa and the nor of ( ( aei and ! lap are alr sma .
the tan dis can be nor by div it by the nor of the vec .
thi imp the res sli bec it off sid eff int in som tra suc as sca .
ind , if sca is a tra of int , the is a pot dan of fin the min dis bet two ima aft the hav bee sca dow to a sin poi .
the lin app of the sca tra doe not rea thi ext , but sti yie a sli deg of the per .
the err rat rep on the usp dat can be imp to 123 usi thi nor ( whi was not tri on nis ) .
tan dis can be vie as one ite of a new - typ alg whi fin the poi of min dis on the tru tra man .
the vec ae and ap are the coo of the two clo poi in the res tan spa , but the can als be int for rea ( non - lin ) tra ( cid : 123 ) tio .
if ae; is the amo of the tra tan vec tha mus be add to e to mak it as clo as pos to p , we can com the tru tra of ima e by ae , ; pix .
in oth wor , e ' ( ae ) and pl ( ap ) are pro ont
sim , cun , and den
clo poi of se and sp .
thi inv a res but can be don eff .
onc thi new ima has bee com , the cor tan vec can be com for thi new ima and the pro can be rep .
eve thi wil con to a loc min in the dis bet the two tra man of p and e .
the tan dis nee to be nor for thi ite pro to wor .
a pri kno : the a pri kno use for tan vec dep gre on the app .
for cha rec , thi was one of the mos imp tra , red the err rat fro 123 to 123 .
suc a tra wou be mea in , say , spe or fac rec .
oth tra suc as loc rub she def may be int for cha rec .
tra can be kno a pri or lea fro the oth alg , red the num of pro : tan dis is a gen met tha can be app to pro oth tha ima rec , wit cla met oth tha k - nea nei .
man dis - ba . sed cla sch cou be use in con wit tan dis , amo the lvq ( koh , 123 ) , and rad bas fun .
sin all the ope in ( cid : 123 ) vol in the tan dis are dif , it is pos to com the par der of the tan dis ( bet an obj and a pro ) wit res to the tan vec , or wit res to the pro .
the the tan dis ope can be ins in gra - des bas ada mac ( of whi lvq and ref are par cas ) .
the mai adv of lea the pro or the tan vec is tha few pro may be nee to rea the sam ( or sup ) lev of per as , say , reg k - nea nei .
in con , tan dis can gre imp man of the dis - bas alg .
we hav use tan dis in the sim k - nea nei al ( cid : 123 ) gor and out all exi tec on sta cla tas .
thi sur suc is pro due the fac tha a pri kno can be ver eff exp in the for of tan vec .
for . tel , man alg are bas on com dis and can be ada to exp a pri kno in a sim fas .
pro can inc par win , lea vec qua and rad bas fun .
