ce ct on re ed of wo in es : a re on ge at ts ly - re rs om ly ed ge es , nd a at ic ed er .
he st ge is en ed of ee in es : ( 23 ) a nk of rs ( en ed ge rs ) ; ( 23 ) a on - ar rm , ch as a nt - se ng ns , on , or n; ( 23 ) a al ng on ch es he ts of ar rs er ng ns .
we se a od at ly ns ch re rs in an ed on by ly ng he rs nd he ng ts at ne le er ts er .
he od ly es ic ps of ar rs at ct es of ns , es , nd ns .
se ar rs re ed er , ng ly - nt ts .
he ed re rs ve le ts as ft on ge on ks or ch ft is ll ed , nd er ts an ft on ks or ch ft is ss ll
a ly nt nt of ry on em is he re or .
ch of he nt os - ls or ct on ms re ed on re de - rs ed om al es ed at ly - ed id - ts on he ge ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
he st ul nd st ly - ed rs ch as ft nd og ( 23 , 23 ) re ed to be nt ( or ro - st ) to or ns of he ut , ch as la - ns , ns , nd er ne ms nd ns .
he nt er es a ew od to ly rn ly - nt re rs om ta in an ed er .
le od rs ve en ed or le ge on , he gn of od
rs or er es of ut ta is a ex sk .
he ty to rn he es ld ow us to to - ly ct od rs or ew ge es ( e . g .
al es , ge es ) , nd or er in - ut es ( e . g .
io , ar ) .
st ng al rs re ed on a le ar - re : he ch is ed th a er nk ( en ng of ed ge rs ) , he ts of ch re ed nd en ed nd ed .
en , he ts of ch er re ly ed ng a le ad - on or a ax or , so as to ld al gs of ea - es .
he ng on es he or st to or es in he on of al es .
is re is at ar ( nd ed by ) he st ly ed el of ly as of he an ry al ex : le ls ct ed es at us ns nd es ( ng he me le as he er nk ) .
ly - ve le ls it er ls at ng ns nd ns ( ly to lo - al on nd / or on ) , le ex ls ly ol he ed ts of ex ls , so as to te a al ce to ll ts ( ke he ng on ) ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
he od ed re ta - ly ns he rs nd he ng on , so at rs at re on ar ge es nd up in he me ol .
as a lt , ar es ll ce ar de -
he em of ng ow - el ge es as me a ic of ng st in nt rs .
ev - al rs ve ed ed ds to rn ge rs ed on se / te po - on ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ut ne ad it on or al ce .
ed ng ds ve ng en ed in on th al ks to rn ow - el , ly nt es at re ed to he sk at nd ( 23 , 23 ) , ut se ds re ge rs of ed es .
a er of nt ls ve ed or ed ng of ly - nt de - rs , ch so se ty ia ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ur im is to rn he er nk ge nd he ng
23 - 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 / 23 / 23 23 ee
ge ly , in ch a ay he rs at ng to he me ol ct ar es .
er an ng rs at re ly nt to ll ft ( a op - ty at an ly be lt by nd ) , ur al is to rn rs at re so nt to er es of or - ns , ch as ns nd in ns .
ur lu - on is to re - re ( re ng ) ch rs ts re ed er , nd to et he ng rs rn ir ts .
he in ea , ed by ( 23 ) , is to ze a ty on on he ng ts .
as a lt , rs at re ed er nd up ng ar es .
al rs ve ed ds to rn ed es in he xt of al ls of he am - an ry al ex .
he ea es on os - ng on ia on ll ps of er ut - ts ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ch an be ed to he up so od or on ( 23 ) .
en he rs at re ed er re ed in a ar ay ( 3d or 3d ) , he rs rm ic ps in ch by rs ex - ct ar es ( 23 , 23 ) , th ns ar to at is nd in he al ex .
to he st of ur ge , he nt rk is he st me a le ly - ed re ap is ed or ng ly nt ge rs or ge on .
he ng ns be he ng re , nd re he rs by ob - ed th a er of rd rs ch as ft .
he ts re on es on al - ch 23 , st nd ny es ts ng us on es ed th us rs .
it is ll ed at se ng ms ap - ed to al es rn is ns at re lo - ed ed es nd le he ve ds of le ls in ea 23 of he an al or - ex ( 23 ) .
se ds ce re on at re se , ut ot nt .
if he ut rn is ly ed , he on ay ge ly .
re - er , se es nt on ut al ex - re , nd ce , re er nt en ed to re - ss le es se ey do ot it he re - cy in nt ge es .
ly , st se ng ms ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) ve nd ed ap - ns in on ue to he gh al st of he ve on ed to te he re
in is er , we ce an hm , ed in - nt ve se on ( sd ) , at : ( 23 ) ns es at re nt to ll ns nt in he ta , nd ( 23 ) es re nt ns se ey an be ct nd ly ed ng a ed - rd on , ut ng he se of ny
ve on re .
ng an er ( id : 23 ) te ry of is
se ng ms nt an ut al x rm ng a ar on of is ns at re ns of he ry ix d mn , ng co - ts z rn , th n > m .
ce he ar em is er - ed , a ty nt is ed at rs st of he ts to be ro or ny en ut .
ny se ng ms ve en ed in he er - re nd in is rk we us on he ng ex
l = in
23 + xi
is ar on as en ly ud - ed ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) , nd it as so en ed to he se en he ry d is ed , us ng to he cs of he ut .
he ic ea is to ze he me ve of qn .
23 ly er ts z or a en ry d , nd en er d or a en et of z .
te at ch mn of d is ed to be it 23 rm ( or ed rm ) in er to id al ns at re ue to he ty of he ar on ( or ce , he ve an be ed by ly ng nd ng z nd d by a nt or ) .
ng nt ns
gh he se ng hm ed ve an rn ns at re se , ey re ot nt : a ll ge in he ut al x ay lt in a ge ge in he ts z ( 23 ) .
we ow be ow he ty rm in qn .
23 an be ed to te ts at re nt to ns in he ut al .
he ll ea ( 23 ) is to ge he zs to a 3d ap ( or me er gy ) nd en ol he ed ef - ts of z ss ng ws .
en , he re of he he er ts in ch ub - ow re ed , nd ts re ot is ed .
re ly , et he ap of z in k ng ds pi .
in ch od i , we um he ed ts zj ( ed by a ed an ng on ed in he od ) nd en ke he re ot .
is j , re wj re he an ts .
he ll ty ty is he um 23 vi .
re 23 ( a ) il - es is me .
us , he ll ve on is
es he on vi = pi of ch ds on : pk
wj z 23
j p i
re 23
( a ) : he re of he ck - ty rm ch en - es he is ns in d to rm a ic ap .
ee xt or ls .
( b ) : ll re of he ss on , as ed in qn .
in he ve el , we ek a re ec - or z at ly te he ut x ia a ry of is ns d nd so ze a ty rm .
ce er - ng he ce at un - me is ow , we in a on on f ( x; w ) ( ed es ) at ly ts he al z om he ut x .
at un - me we se ly he on on to ly te z om x , om ch he nt es vi
he ed ty rm as a er of le ts on he re of z at re ot ly us :
he re ot in he um er i es se ns ss ds ce a ew ge ac - ns ll ve er ll st an ny ll
in ch od i , he ts zj re en - ed to be ar to ne er ue to he z 23 ( ch rs ny ll ts to a ew ge es ) .
is as he ct of ng ar is ns in d to be ly se in he 3d ap .
as he ds ap , se is ns ll ly ry ss he ap , so at he ef - ts zj in ny en od i ll be ar .
if he ze of he ng ns is ed to a le z nt , en he ty rm is nt to at of qn
he ed ty rm ns at by ng he ss on li in qn .
23 th ct to th he co - ts z nd he ry d , he em ns a et of is ns in d at re id ut in a ic ap on he 3d id .
ce he by is ns in he ic ap re ar , he ts zj ll be ar or a en in - ut x .
is so ns at if is ut is ed ly en he ed se in a en od ll be ly ed , ce a se in he se of ne er ll be et by an ed se in a by ne .
ce , we an in a ly st on
by ng he ed ns vi as es , er an z as is ly ne .
ce nt ns de ar ns th he me on , ey an be de re om - ct .
ut er ay , is ns at he ty of v an be de er an he ty of z th - ut ss of ul on .
is as he le et of ng ss on to ct he es om an ge , ng ss ry to re em , nd ng ss on to it em .
he 3d ap er z es ar ry ns to re at he ng ps ly nd at he es of he ap .
de on
he el ed ve is ve , us at st - me or ch ut on x , we ll ve to rm er - ce by ng he gy on li of qn .
23 th ct to z .
er , is ll be ly ow or al - me ns re we sh to ct ds of rs er ge .
we re se to in a on - ar or at ly ps ut es x to se ns z , om ch he nt es vi an ly be ed .
at st - me we ly ed to nt x to he on on ch es in ed - rd on to ce z .
no ve on is
f ( x; w ) = f ( x; g , m , b ) = g nh ( m x + b )
re m mn is a er ix , b rm is a or of es , nh is he ic nt on - ty , nd g mm is a al ix of in ts ow - ng he ts of f to te or he ng of he ut nd he ed ge of he ic nt on - ty .
or ce , w is ed to ly te he rs of he or , w = ( g , m , b ) .
ng ng , he al is to ke he on of he or , f ( x; w ) as se as le to he al et of ts : z = rg nz li in qn .
is ti - on an be ed ut ly er he em in qn .
( 23 ) as en ed .
er , ng es ch er by ly ng he w nd he et of is nc - ns d ll er .
is is ed by ng er rm to he ss on in qn .
( 23 ) , ch es he ep - on z to be as se as le to he ed - rd on f ( x; w ) :
ip = kx 23
j + kz f ( x; w ) 23
he ll re of is ss on is ed in
he al of ng is to nd he al ue of he ba - is ns d , as ll as he ue of he rs in he or w , us ng ip in qn .
ng ro - ds by an on - ne ck te nt nt go - hm , ng he ng wo ps or ch ng
ng he rs w nd d nt , ze ip of qn .
( 23 ) th ct to z , ng om he al ue ed by he or f ( x; w ) .
ng he al ue of he ts z ed by he us ep , te he rs w nd d by ne ep of ic nt nt .
he te is : u u ip u , re u ly es ( w , d ) nd is he ep ze .
he ns of d re en re - ed to it rm .
we et = 23 or ll ts .
we nd at ng he et of is ns d st , en ly ng he or , ds ar ce in ms of ni - on cy .
er , en he or is ed er - ds , he te on is ly ss se nd he ll ng me is ly er .
ce he rs re ed , ng he nt on v an be ed by a le ed - rd on gh he or f ( x; w ) , nd en op -
ng z to v gh vi = pi
te at no on of x ng he et of is ns d is ry ny er .
an le of is ed rd on re is en in ig
he on of is ed - rd le or ng z , nd ce , v is al to ng up he un - me er - ce , ce no on ds to be un er in - ng .
ts ed in a al rt on he on - nt on of ve se on ( 23 ) ow at he z ed by is te ta - on es a ly or on cy to he z ed by ng of li .
ly , er es of or ns re ed ( ng nt ds of ng on - es ) , ut he ne en re es ar ce le ng he ge of ng ry le .
in ct he l - rs m ed by he on on ly ch he is ns d ed or on ng ng , ng he me ic ut .
re 23
ic ap of re rs ed om at - al ge es of ze 23 ls by ng ip a in qn .
re re 23 rs at re ed in 23 or - ds .
nt ds ap by 23 ls th on - ly nd ly .
ce he th on in a en od nd so he ar ry ns .
re 23
is of ed rs by ng or ns , ch ot ng to a re .
ft : er on of ed or .
ht : ar ap ng he nt on of ta - on ( ly ) nd cy ( ly ) of or t .
in he ng on , re ng he es of he nt es ed , we st dy he po - ic ap ed by ur ng me .
st , we ke an al on of he ce ed by se ns er ns nd ns of he ut ge .
nd , we ss he ve er of se nt ns on on ks in ee nt ns : ( i ) ic ct es ng he ch 23 t; ( ii ) ic ct es om a et of ry ow on es nd ( ii ) on
re 23
es om he ny es .
we se le es in ur ts .
of ng ts ng he st et .
in se ex - ts we re sd s ed ns th he ft or ( 23 ) at is ed a te - of - he - rt or in er on .
ly , we ne he al st of ng sd es on an im -
ng he ic ap
23 ws a al ic ap ed by he ed od om al ge es .
ch le ws a er in d ng to a ar zi .
in he le wn , he ut es re es of ze 23 ls , nd re re 23 is ns , nd ce , 23 ts zi ed in a 23 ce .
he ds er ch he ed es of is re ed re 23 ws , nd ey ap by 23 in th he al nd he al on .
he es of se rs re na - ed by ng or ns nd re wn in ig
by ng he ay in ch he ds re ed , we an ge he es of he ap .
er ds ke he rs in ch ol ly ar .
a er ap en ws es he rs ry re ly ss nt ls .
a ge ty ue es he re rs rn ss ed at - ns at ok ke se ed by k - ns ng se he ut as to be ed ng a ll um - er of is ns .
on he er nd , a ll ty ue es he re rs ok ke on - ed om rs se ny om te is et an ce od ns ( ly , he st rm in he ss of qn .
23 es ) .
he ap in ig .
23 as en ed th an di - te ty el of = 23
he en er ng in - es he ng hm to ce a th ap th ly ed ge rs in nt ns , ri - ns , nd es .
se re rs re ly or - ed in ch a ay at ng ts de ar ns .
a it vi , at ts to he um of he es of ts zj in a ol is nt se se ts nt ar es , nd ll ns ed to he ut , le ly ng he js in a ol , re ly to ve he ng vi ed .
le he ty el , he ze of he ng ws nd ir ap ld be et by ss - on , in ac - ce we nd at ir ct es do ot ly
on 23 es
on 23 es
ft on ot .
ur lg .
on nv .
ur lg
re 23
an ed or ( se ) en he on of a ch nd ts ed on .
on he ft el , he ns - ed ch is ly ed .
on he ht el , he ns - ed ch is st ed by 23 es nd en ly ed .
he es re an ge er 23 es ly ed om al es .
ce he es re 23 ls in ze , a ft of 23 ls es a ed ch at is te ed to he al ch .
ce , he se as en ed so at he se at 23 ls is he me or ll ds .
is ws us to ly re nt re ex - on ms : on - on nt ft , ft , sd ed to ce on - nt ns ( i . e .
ls ve ze 23 ) ( 23 ) , nd sd ed to ce nt ta - ns .
ll ms ce a re or th 23 en - ns .
sd es ns at re re nt to ns an he er es .
ct he nd of es ed .
in er ds , he al - hm is te st to he ce of se rs , ly se of he ny ts ed ng
ng ce to ns
in is nt we dy he ce es of he ed on er le ns .
we ve ed a et of 23 al ge es er nt ns nd ns .
ch ch is re - ed to he or on at es a 23 en - al or ( en to be he me ze as ft ) om - ed of vs .
a on an be ed ly in - nt if it es ot ge ly er ll ns - ns of he ut .
ed , is is at we ve in ig .
we re he an ed ce be - en he or of he ce ch nd he ip - or of he ed on , ed er ny nt ge es .
he re es ed or st ft th a ng al ft or 23 nd 23 es al on .
ry ar ts re nd or al ts nd er on es .
on he ft el , we an ee at he an ed or ( se ) en he on of he al ch nd ts on es ly as we se he or - al ft .
he se of sd on is ly
re 23
am of he on em , ch is ed of an nt re or at as en ed er - ed , ed by a ed ar vm er .
he ea - re or ss he ut ge gh a et of er ks , re he rs re ed in a wo al ic ap .
he ap es ls of ar re rs se ac - ns re st on - ly ed by a ic nt on - ty , nd en , ed by a in .
nt ta - ns re nd by ng he re ot of he um of he es of se ts at ng to he me ol .
he ut of he ea - re or is a et of re ps at an be ed as ut to he er .
he er ks nd he et of ns is ed by he hm .
on is ry st , se it ts of a ct rd on gh he em .
er an he se ed by es at re ed ng ft , a on - on nt on of ft , nd a on - nt on ed by he ed od ( at as ed th ls of ze 23 ) ( 23 ) .
a im - ar or is nd en he ch is ot ly ed , ut so ed .
en he ft is ll , ft as er se , ut as on as he on es ge gh at he ut rn ls in a nt al ub - ow , he se es ly .
ad ed en - ns ng sd em to be te st to ts , th an ll er ea er he ve .
te so at al se ng ms re ne to ce le ep - ns er ll ns of he ut .
se ch ut as to be ed th a ll er of is ns , nd se he is ns re ly ed in on nd on , a ll ge in he ut an ce ic es in he on .
is em is ly ed by ur te ce re at es a th or on .
er , is ri - nt ws at is ns is ly le er ll ns , en ed to he nt en - ns ed by sd nd ft .
ic ct on
we ow se sd nt es or ct si - on on he ch 23 et ( 23 ) of 23 ic ct es ng nd ss .
we se 23 ng es er ss nd up to 23 st es er ss .
he es re ly ed , nd re - ed in he ol -
ng ay : ed to ay - le nd wn - ed in ch a ay at he st de is 23 ls nd en lo - ly ed nd ro ed to 23 ls .
he al on es a 23 od nd ch el , ts he al an , en es he by he al rd on if it is er an he rd on of he ge .
he er ep is a rm of ve al - on , ed to el he st on in he
we ve ed sd on 23 , 23 23 es an - ly ed om he re - ed es .
he po - ic ap ed as ze 23 , th he ng gh - ds ng 23 nd an ap of 23 ts be - en ds .
ce , re re a al of 23 ts at re ed in 23 ls to ce a 23 - al on at an be ed to ft .
er ng sd in an ed ay , we se he or on to er he on of ne le ge by : ( i ) un - ng he or on on 23 es ed by 23 ls to ce 23 ps of es of ze 3; ( ii ) he re ps re ly ed ( od of 23 ) nd ow - ss ed th a ar er ( 23 ) to id g; ( ii ) he ps re en ed ng he ng 23 al ts ( al to he er of in - ng es ) , nd ( iv ) a ed ar 23 is ed to ze he ct in ch ng ge .
he ll me is wn in ig
le 23 ts he on ts or is ri - nt .
th a ar er ar to ( 23 ) , sd es rm ft nd he el ed by re nd og - io ( 23 ) .
er , if on ce is ed om ft ts ce es le to sd .
we ve so ed th he re ed al id ng ( pm ) el vm er of ik et al .
in is nt , we in ed he me sd re on 23 es ed by 23 ls to ce 23 al re ps , ed by al on er a 23 od , ng 23 al es er a rm 23 id .
ng pm , sd es ve 3% ge cy er ss .
by ng he ng de to 23 el , by ng 23 re ps , sd ea - es ve 3% cy as wn in le 23
is is le to ks 3% cy on ch - 23 ( ut nd ss ) ( 23 ) .
or on , ur re - on of ks ft re or , ed by 23 ls to ce 23 ps , ed 3% ge on te .
th 23 nt es , ch or es nd ms to te om a 23 ch .
te at he ua - on me of ch on is a ar on of he er
cy / ss ( % )
ce on ny es et
al 23 + 23 + 23 + ar vm ft ( 23 ) ( on ot .
nv . ) ft ( 23 ) ( ot .
nv . ) re et al .
es ( 23 )
al 23 + al id ch el vm
le 23
on cy on ch 23 et ng a va - ty of nt re ns nd wo nt si - rs .
he ca + ar vm er is ar to ( 23 ) , le he al id ng el vm er is at of ( 23 ) .
sd is ed to ct es th ee nt ng ep es er an ut ge to ce 23 , 23 nd 23 re ps , re ch re is 23 al to be pa - le to ft .
al on is ot ed on ft es en ed th al id ch el vm .
er of nt ts
re 23
he re ws he on cy on ch 23 et as a on of he er of nt ts .
te at he ce nt en 23 nd 23 ts is ow 3% , ng at or in ns he re om - ct or ht be le .
of es , us is me an be er ed if he um - er of es is ed .
23 ws ow he on ce es as he er of es is ed .
ny es on
sd as ed to ft on er on sk ng he ny es et ( 23 ) .
is et as en as ts me ow - on es a nt ng to he ch 23 es .
or ty , we ed 23 ni - al ns ( an at , el rk , ra is ( a pe of ry ) , by ( a pe of al ) , ay le ) nd ly ed 23 es of ch .
23 es of ch ss re ed or ng , th he ng 23 ld ut or ng .
ll es re ed to le .
th sd th 23 ed ts nd ft re ed to ct es er 23 ns , ed ry 23 ls er he 23 es .
he ng 23 by 23 by 23 al re ps re ed th a ar vm .
sd es ve 3% nd ft es ve a le 3% .
ft ( 23 ) ( on ot
ce on st et
ft ( 23 ) ( on ot
or te ( % )
le 23
ts of on or te on ny es nd st ts .
in th ps , a 23 al re or is ed ng er sd or ft er a ly ed 23 id nd ds a ar vm is ed or on .
or on es it is th ng at a an vm ed on st es ut ny ng es 3% or te .
ng on
we se a ry ar re to at ed in he ex - ts ve to in on he en ts of he st et ( 23 ) .
is is a et of si - ry nd - en ts th 23 , 23 es in he ng et , nd 23 , 23 es in he st et .
he hm as ed us - ng 23 ws ed om he al 23 el es .
or on , 23 - al re rs re ed at 23 ns ly ed er a 23 id .
a ar vm ed on se es ds an er - or te of 3% .
en 23 ft re rs re ed ad of sd es , he or te es to 3% .
is es at , le ft ms ll ed to al es , sd es es at an pt to he sk at nd .
in a ar nt , a le 23 - al re or as ed ng sd nd ft , nd ed to a ar vm .
he or te as 3% or sd , nd 3% or ft .
ry nd re rk
we ed an re nd a ng hm at an rn ly - nt re rs .
he ar - re es a nk of on - ar rs se ts re ed in a ic on , ed by a ol - ng er at es a ty on on ks of l - er ts ed in ll ns of he ic ap .
as a lt of ng , rs at re ed er ct ar es , ch ts in us ri - ce of he ed ts to ll ns of he ut .
ng ng , he ut of he on - ar er nk is ed to a ar er at ts he ut ch .
he rs nd he ar er re ly ed to ze he on or , er th a ty on ed as he um of he ng ts .
er ng , he ar er is ed , nd he ng it ts re ed as he nt re or of he ut ch .
ng he or or a ch is ry
st nd le : it ly es ng he ch by a ng ix , ng a ed nh on to he re - ts , nd ng he re ot of an - ed um - of - es of er ts in ch ol ow .
ge on ts ow at he ip - rs by ed ve le ce to ft rs on ks or ch ft as ly de - ed ( ch as ch 23 ) , nd er ce on ks or ch ft is ot ly ll ed ( st , nd ny es ) .
le er ls ve ed ly nt de - rs by ly ng ft ce ng pa - al ng , ur al is re al : it an rn al es to er ns an st ns .
ur ts so ow us al ce to ta - on .
to ur ge , is is he st me ch nt re rs ve en ed nd ed in an ge on xt th ve on es .
a ng - rm al of is rk is to de a al ol or ng re rs in an ed er .
re rk ll ve ng le ge of ch re rs so as to rn ti - el es of ly al nd nt es .
we nk ol or , y - an au , ro on - li , nd rs of he ar am al ta - on nd ve on or ul ns .
is rk as ed in rt by nr nt 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 , sf nt ri - 23 , nd sf is - 23
