act ent sks , uch as ual ion , ory ion , and age ing ire the ion of ood nal ons of the rld ( or res ) , ich ust be ant to ant ons of the put ile , ing ant ion .
a jor ion for ine ing is how to arn uch ood res uto - lly .
nal rks ( ets ) are a lly - red ble ure hat can arn ant res .
ach age in a ets is sed of a ter ank , ome non - ies , and ure ing ers .
ith ple ges , a net can arn lti - vel ies of res .
ile ets ave een lly yed in any ial ons rom ocr to deo nce , hey ire rge nts of led ing les .
we ibe new nsu - sed ing hms , and new non - ear ges hat low ets to be ned ith ery few led les .
ons to ual ect ion and ion ion for off - oad ile ots are bed .
ing nal ons
tly of ose , ale ,
one of the key ons of ion nce ( ral and ial ) is how to uce ood nal ons of the ual rld .
hat ort of nal ion uld low an ial ion tem to ect and ify cts ion , and ter ? ore gly , how uld an ial ion tem arn ate nal nta - ons lly , the way als and man eem to arn by ply ing at the rld ? in the ime - red ach to ter ion ( and to ern ion in ral ) , the ion is ded : nal ons are ced by a and - ted ure tor , ose put is fed to a ble ier .
ile the sue of ing res has een a pic of est for any ars , ble ess has een ved in the ast few ars ith the ent of so - led eep ing ods .
ood nal ons are cal .
in ion , els are led nto ets , ets nto ifs , ifs nto rts , rts nto cts , and cts nto nes .
his sts hat ion res for ion ( and for her ies uch as dio and ral age ) uld ave ple ble ges ked on top of ach her , one for ach vel in the ure chy .
his ses two new ons : hat to put in ach age ? and how to ain uch eep , lti - age res ? nal rks ( ets ) are an wer to the rst ion .
til tly , the wer to the ond ion was to use ent - sed sed ing , but ent rch in eep ing has ced a ber of sed ods ich tly uce the eed for led les .
nal rks ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) are ble age res sed of ple ges .
the put and put of ach age are ets of ays led ure aps .
for ple , if the put is a lor age , ach ure map uld be a 23d ray ing a lor nel of the put age ( for an dio put ach ure map uld be a 23d ray , and for a deo or ric age , it uld be a 23d ray ) .
at the put , ach ure map nts a lar ure
a cal net ure ith two ure ges
ted at all ons on the put .
ach age is sed of ree ers : a ter ank yer , a non - ity yer , and a ure ing yer .
a cal net is sed of one , two or ree uch 123 - yer ges , wed by a ion ule .
ach yer ype is now bed for the ase of age ter ank yer - f : the put is a 23d ray ith 123 23d ure aps of ize 123 123
ach ent is ted ijk , and ach ure map is ted xi .
the put is lso a 23d ray , y sed of 123 ure aps of ize 123 123
a ble ter ( nel ) kij in the ter ank has ize 123 123 and cts put ure map xi to put ure map yj .
the ule tes yj = bj + pi kij xi ere is the 23d ete ion tor and bj is a ble ias ter .
ach ter cts a lar ure at ery ion on the put .
nce lly ing the put of a ure ion yer ill ate the put but ave it non - ity yer : in nal ets his ply sts in a ise anh ( ) oid ion ied to ach ite ( ijk ) .
ver , ent ons ave sed ore ted non - ies .
a ful one for ral im - age ion is the ied oid abs : abs ( gi . anh ( ) ) ere gi is a ble ain ter .
the ied oid is mes wed by a ive and ive cal mal - ion n , ich ces cal ion een ent res in a ure map , and een res at the ame ial ion .
the ive ion ion for a ven ite ijk tes : ijk = ijk ipq wpq . xi , j+p , k+q , ere wpq is a zed ted ian ing dow ( lly of ize 123 ) .
the ive ion tes ijk = ijk / max ( ean ( jk ) , jk ) ere jk = i , j+p , k+q ) 123 / 123
the cal ast ion yer is red by ual nce els ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ure ing yer : his yer ats ach ure map ely .
in its est nce , led pa , it tes the age ues ver a ood in ach ure map .
the ods are ped by a ide ger han 123 ( but ler han or ual the ing ood ) .
his lts in a ced - ion put ure map ich is ust to all ons in the ion of res in the ous yer .
the age ion is mes ced by a max pm .
nal ets use a ise anh ( ) ter the ing yer , but ore ent els do not .
ome ets nse ith the ate ing yer ely , but use des ger han one in the ter ank yer to uce
123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 123 eee
an ple of ure ion age of the ype f bsn pa .
an put age ( or a ure map ) is sed ugh a ter ank , wed by abs ( gi .
anh ( ) ) , cal ive and ive ast ion , and
the ion ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
in ome ent ons of ets , the ing lso ols lar ure at the ame ion , in ion to the ame ure at rby ons ( 123 ) .
sed ing is med ing a orm of tic ent ent to ize the ncy een the red put and the ual put of the ork .
all the ent of all the ers in all the ers are ted sly by the ing ure .
the nts are ted ith the ack - ion hod .
ils of the ure are ven in ( 123 ) , and ods for ent ing are led in ( 123 ) .
ory and ons
ets can be een as a ves of a ide ass of els hat we ill all lti - age bel - sel res .
the dea is ted in bel and els sic 123 ork on the ats ary ual tex .
it ied ion - ive ple lls ith cal ive lds , ose ole is lar to the ets ter ank ers , and lex lls , ose ole is lar to the ing ers .
the rst uch del to be ted on a ter was mas ron ( 123 ) , ich sed a yer - ise , un - sed ive ing thm for the ter nks , and a ely - ned sed ear ier for the put yer .
the ion in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) was to ify the ure and to use the ack - ion thm to ain the ire tem in a sed ion .
the ach was ery ful for uch sks as ocr and rit - ing ion .
an nal ank eck ing tem ilt und ets was ped at t&t in the rly 23s ( 123 ) .
it was rst yed lly in 123 , ing on a dsp ard in eck - ing atm nes in ope and the us , and was yed in rge ank eck ing nes in 123
by the ate 23s it was ing ver 23% of all the cks in the us .
his ted oft to loy ets in a ber of ocr and ing ion ems ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ing for bic ( 123 ) and ese ers ( 123 ) .
sed ets ave lso een sed for ect ion in ges , ith ord acy and eal - ime nce ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , gle tly yed a net to ect ces and nse ate in iew ges so as to ect acy ( 123 ) .
nec has yed net - sed tem in pan for ing ers in ket and ing eir der and age .
ent ies has ped a net - sed deo nce tem yed in ral rts in the us .
nce com has yed net - sed ace ion ems for deo - nce and her ems ( 123 ) .
her tal ion ons in - ude nds / ure ( 123 ) , gos and ext ( 123 ) .
a big age of ets for ion is eir nal ncy : ven ugh the tem is ned on all ows , it ces to end the ons to the ize of the put age and ate the put yer to ute ons at ery ion .
sed ets ave lso een sed for ion - sed cle nce for off - oad ile ots ( 123 )
nts in the ent rpa - red agr ram on ion - sed ion for off - oad ots sed ets for ong - nge cle ion ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
in ( 123 ) , the tem is pre - ned off - ine ing a ion of sed ing ( as bed in ion ii ) and sed ing .
it is hen ted on - ine , as the bot uns , ing els ded by a ort - nge ion tem ( see eos at ttp : / / www . cs . nyu . edu / ann / rch / agr ) .
ter - ing new ons ude age ion ( 123 ) and age ion , rly for cal ges ( 123 ) .
the big age ver rfs is the ity to ake a rge ext dow nto unt .
ing lts ere ned at mit for ing nal its rom an ack of ain ice ges a few ter ick
ver the ars , her ces of the lti - age bel - sel ure ave red hat are in the ion of the ron : ike sed ets , hey use a ion of and - ing , and ple sed ods to ign the ter nks .
ble les ude ers ual els ( 123 ) , and the so - led max ily of els rom t .
ios lab at mit ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ich ses ard - red bor ers in the rst age , and a ple sed dom ate ion thm for the ond age .
all ges use int - ise non - ies and max ing .
rom the ame ute , nto et al .
( 123 ) ave ied the ost ate non - ies and iza - ons by ing tic nts ith a a gle - age ure ing gpu - sed lel are .
sed ing of ets
ing eep , lti - age res ing sed ent ack ion res any led les .
ver in any ems led ata is rce eas un - led ata is ant .
ent rch in eep ing ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) has own hat sed ing can be sed to ain ach age one ter the her ing nly led ata , ing the ent for led les gni - tly .
in ( 123 ) , ing abs and ion non - ies , sed pre - ing , and sed bal ent has een own to eld ent nce on the ech - 123 set ith nly 123 ing les per ory ( ore on his low ) .
in ( 123 ) , ood acy was ned on the ame set ing a ery ent sed hod sed on rse ted ann nes .
ral rks at nec ave lso own hat ing ary sks ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) lps ing the tem and ces ent nce .
sed ing ith ive rse ion the sed hod we ose , to arn the ter nts in the ter ank ers , is led ive rse ion ( psd ) ( 123 ) .
lar to the ell - own rse ing hms ( 123 ) , uts are ted as a rse ear ion of ary nts .
in nal rse ing for any ven put x , one eds to run an ive ion thm to nd z ( the sis uit lem ) .
psd ins a eed - ard sor ( or der ) c ( x , k ) to kly ate the rse ion z .
ing ing , the ure tor z is ned by e ( z , w , k ) = kx w 123
123 + 123 + kz c ( x , k ) 123
ere w is the rix ose mns are the ary nts and k are the ers .
for ach ing ple x , one rst nds z hat zes e , hen w and k are
age ion tes on ech - 123
abs n pa abs pa n pm
to wer e .
nce ted by tic ent ent ing is ete , the ure tor for a ven put is ply ned ith z = c ( x , k ) , nce the ess is ely ast ( eed - ard ) .
lts on ect ion
in his ion , ous res and ing res are red to ine ich non - ies are fer - ble , and ich ing col kes a nce .
ric ect ion ing ech 123 set : we use a two - age tem ere , the rst age is sed of an f yer ith 123 ers of ize 123 123 , wed by ent ons of non - ies and ing .
the ond - age ure tor is fed ith the put of the rst age and cts 123 put res aps , ach of ich nes a dom set of 123 ure aps rom the ous age ing 123 123 els .
nce the tal ber of ion els is 123 123 = 123
ble i zes the lts for the nts , ere u and r tes sed pre - ing and dom ion ely , and + tes sed ne - ing of the ole tem .
ent acy of 23% is ned ing sed pre - ing and sed ent ith abs ion non - ies .
the ult is on par ith the lar del sed on ift and mid tch nel svm ( 123 ) .
it is ear hat abs and ion are ala for ing ood nce .
his is an ely ant act for ers of nal rks , ich lly nly use anh ( ) .
gly , dom ers out any ter ing ver eve ent nce ( 23% for r ) , as ong as abs and ion are ent ( abs n pa ) .
a ore led udy on his lar ase can be und 123
ing nts rom ows r vs r+ , u vs u + , we see hat sed ne ing tly ves the nce , rly ith eak non - ies .
it ems hat sed pre - ing ( u , u + ) is ial hen wly sed non - ies are not in ace .
ten git ion ing ist set :
ing the nce red in ous nts , we sed a two - age tem ith a two - yer lly - ted ier .
the two nal ges ere pre - ned sed , and ned sed .
an ror ate of 23% was ved ont he est set .
to our dge , his is the est ror ate ver ted on the nal ist set , out ons or ing .
the est sly ted ror ate was 23% ( 123 ) .
ion ith her hes in ect ion
any ent ful ect ion ems can lso be een as gle or lti - yer ure ion ems fol - wed by a ier .
ost mon ure ion ems ike ift ( 123 ) , hog ( 123 ) are sed of nks ( ted dge ors at ple les ) wed by non - ies ( ner ake all ) and ing ( ing ) .
a mid
tch nel ( pmk ) svm ( 123 ) fer can lso be een as her yer of ure ion nce it rms a k - ans sed ure ion wed by cal ing .
are and are ons ing ets in are is est ved ing the lar , ect - ted ach ted in ( 123 ) .
ach sic ule ( ion , ing , etc ) is ted as a ass ith ree ber ule . rop ( put , put ) , ich tes the put rom the put , ule . rop ( put , put ) , ich ack - tes nts rom the uts ack to the uts and the nal ble ers , and op - lly ule . rop ( put , put ) , ich may ack - ate ond nal ves for the men - ion of ond - der ion hms ( 123 ) .
ral are ons of ets are ilt und his ept , and ave our sic ies : 123
a ex - ble lti - nal ray ary ith sic ons uch as dot cts , and ons , 123
a ass chy of sic ing ine ing ocs ( e . g .
ple ons non - ear rms , ost ons , .
a set of ses for rgy - sed nce ( 123 ) , ent - sed ion , and nce ent .
ree ble net ons use his ept .
the rst one is art of the ush tem , a isp ect ith an ter and ler ith an asy ace to c ( 123 ) .
the ond one is arn , a c++ ine ing ary ith ass chy to the ush ion ( 123 ) .
ird is rch - 123 ( 123 ) a c ary ith an ter ont end sed on lua .
all ree ems ome ith ies to ate rge ets , ges , and eos .
the rst are ons of ets ate ack to the rly 23s ith ell abs nna hip , a xed log - tal sor hat uld ute 123 ous 123 123 ons at a eak ate of 123 ply - ate ons per ond ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ith 123 bit ion on the tes and 123 its on the hts .
ore tly , a oup rom the non ion ped a ype net hip for low - wer ent ras ( 123 ) .
ome ent hes ely on sed - ent ion ( aer ) ers , the age of not ing ers to ute the ons .
iar is the ing uch ect , ith a nce of 23g ons / sec ( 123 ) .
pga ons of ets red in the mid - 23s ith ( 123 ) , ich sed low - acy tic to oid ing ull - ged ers .
ely , re - ent dsp - ted gas ude rge ers of ard - red mac its , ich low ely ast and low wer ons of ets .
the cnp ped in our oup ( 123 ) ves ops for 123 els , ith an chi - ure hat nts ire ets , ing pre / ost - ing , and is ely ble .
an ual ace de - ion ion was ted on his tem , ing fps on vga ges ( 123 ) .
the nal ork ure is a bly ile , yet lly ple igm hat can be ied to a ide rum of ual sks .
ile nal net ned ith sed ing are ery ive , ing hem ire a rge ber of led ing les .
we ave own hat ing ple ral cks uch as ion and ast ion , and ing
sed pre - ing of ach ter ank , the eed for led les is bly ced .
use of eir ity to a ide nge of sks , and use of eir rel - ely orm ure , ets are ect tes for are ons , and ded ons , as ted by the ing unt of ork in his rea .
we ect to see any new ded ion ems sed on ets in the ext few ars .
ite the ent ess in eep ing , one of the jor ges of ter ion , ine ing , and ai in ral in the ext ade ill be to ise ods hat can lly arn ood res ies rom led and led ata in an ted ion .
ent and ure rch ill cus on ing sed ing on ple ges sly , on the ion of sed and sed ing , and on ing the eed - ack ath ted by the ers to orm ual nce , uch as ern ion and ion .
