ory - sed ion hms uch as ial sis unc ( cid : 123 ) ons or k - est ors lly ely on ple ces ( eu ( cid : 123 ) ean , dot uct . . .
) , ich are not rly ful on ern ors .
ore lex , ter ted nce res are ten ive and her ad - hoc ( tic ing , ble tes ) .
we ose a new nce ure ich ( a ) can be ade lly ant to any set of ons of the put and ( b ) can be ted tly .
we ted the hod on rge ten ter ses ded by the ost ice and the ist .
ing ces ith ect to ion , ota ( cid : 123 ) ion , ing , ing and ine ess , the hod tly med all her ems ted on the ame ses .
nce - sed ion hms uch as ial sis ons or k - est ors ten ely on ple ces ( uch as ean nce , ing nce , etc . ) .
as a ult , hey fer rom a ery igh ity to ple ons of the put rns hat uld ave the ion ged ( e . g .
ion or ing for 23d ges ) .
his is ted in fig .
123 ere an led age of a " 123 " ust be ied by ing the est ype age out of two ges ing ely a " 123 " and a " 123 " .
ing to the ean nce ( sum of the res of the xel to xel ces ) , the " 123 " is ser ven ugh the " 123 " is uch ore lar nce it has een ted and ned .
the ult is an ect ion .
the key dea is to uct a nce ure ich is ant ith ect to ome sen ons uch as ion , ion and ers .
the ial ase of ear ons has een ell ied in ics and is mes red to as tes sis
ent ern ion ing a new ion nce
ure 123 : hat is a ood ity ure ? ing to the ean nce the ern to be ied is ore lar to ype b .
a ter nce ure uld ind hat ype a is ser use it ers nly by a ion and a ess ion , two ons ich uld ave the ion
( son , 123 ) .
it has een ied to on - ine ter ion ( den and his per ers the ore ral ase of non - ear ons uch as ric ons of ray - vel ges .
ber hat ven a ple age ion nds to a hly non - ear ion in the igh ( cid : 123 ) nal xel ace l .
in ous ork ( ard et al . , 23b ) , we wed how a ral ork uld be ned to be ant ith ect to ted for ( cid : 123 ) ons of the put .
vve now ply lar eas to nce - sed ers .
' ' ' ' hen a ern p is med ( e . g .
ted ) ith a ion s hat nds on one ter a ( e . g .
the gle of the ion ) , the set of all the med rns sp = ( x i 123 uch hat x = s ( 123 , p ) ) is a one - nal rve in the tor ace of the uts ( see fig .
in ain ses , uch as ons of zed ges , his rve ust be ade ous ing ing ues ( see ( ard et al . , 23b ) ) .
hen the set of ons is zed by n ers ai ( ion , ion , ing , etc . ) , sp is a old of at ost n ons .
the rns in sp hat are ned ugh all ons of p , i . e .
the art of sp hat is ose to p , can be ted by a ane ent to the old sp at the int p .
all ons of p can be ned by ing to p a ear ion of ors hat pan the ent ane ( ent ors ) .
the ges at the tom of fig .
123 ere ned by hat ure .
ent ors for a ion s can ily be ted by ite nce ( ing os ( a , p ) / oa ) ; ore ils can be und in ( ard et al . , 3b; ard et al . , 23a ) .
as we ned ier , the ean nce een two rns p and e is in ral not ate use it is ive to ant ons of p and of e .
in ast , the nce v ( e , p ) ned to be the mal dis ( cid : 123 ) nce een the two lds sp and se is uly ant ith ect to the ion sed to ate sp and se .
ely , ese lds ave no tic ion in ral , and ing the nce een hem is a ard ion lem ith ple cal ima .
des , t . rue nce is not
123 if the ima . ge of a " 123 " is ted ica . lly ard , the dle top xel ill ate
rom ack to ite ree mes .
ard , cun , and ker
rue ons of p
ons at p
_ _ . . . . . . . . . .
ure 123 : top : all ons of an nal zed age of the git " 123 " .
dle : ion of the ect of the ion in xel ace ( if ere ere nly 123 els ) .
tom : ges ned by ing ong the ent to the ion rve for the ame nal zed age p by ing ous nts ( a ) of the ent tor ( t . v . ) .
ily ble nce a ion of a " 123 " nto a " 123 " oes not rve the ect our ach sts of ing the non - ear old sp and se by ear ces and ing the nce d ( e , p ) ned to be the mum nce een hem .
his ves ree ems at nce : 123 ) ear lds ave ple cal ons ich can be ily ted and red , 123 ) ing the mum nce een ear lds is a ple ast res lem ich can be ved tly and , 123 ) his nce is lly ria . nt but not lly ant .
hus the nce een a " 123 " and a tly ota . ted " 123 " is all but the nce een a " 123 " and a " 123 " is la . rge .
the ent .
tan ces een p and e are ted lly in fig .
the ure nts two rns p and e in 123 - nal ace .
the ma . lds ted by s are ted by one - nal ves ing ugh e and p ely .
the ear ons to the lds are ted by nes ent to the ves at e and p .
ese nes do not ect in 123 ons and the est nce een hem ( ely ned ) is d ( e , p ) .
the nce een the two non - ear ion ves vee , p ) is lso own on the an ent ion of the ent nce d ( e , p ) ill be ven in the
ent ern ion ing a new ion nce
ure 123 : ion of the ean nce and the ent nce een p and e
ext ion .
ugh the ent nce can be ied to any ind of pat ( cid : 123 ) rns ted as ors , we ave ted our rts on ons to age ion .
son of ent nce ith the est own ing hod ill be bed .
lly we ill uss ble ons on the ent nce and how it can be zed to ems her han ern ion .
in his ion we ibe lly the ion of the ent nce .
let the ion s ich map u , a to s ( a , u ) be a ble ion of the put ace , ing on a tor a of ter , ing s ( o , u ) = ' it .
if u is a 123 nal age for nce , s ( a , u ) uld be a ion of u by the gle & .
if we are ted in all ons of ges ich rve ces ( try ) , 123 ( a , u ) uld be a ion by a r wed by a ion by ax , a y of the age u .
in his ase & = ( ar , ax , a y ) is a tor of ers of ion 123
in ral , & = ( ao , . .
" am - d is of ion m .
nce 123 is ble , the set stl .
= ( x i 23a for ich x = 123 ( a , ' it ) ) is a ren ( cid : 123 ) ble old ich can be ted to the rst der by a ane ttl . .
his ane is ent to stl .
at u and is ted by the mns of rix
= 123 ( & ~ ' it ) i = ( 123 ( & , u ) , . . .
, 123 ( a , u ) )
ich are ors ent to the old .
if e and p are two rns to be red , the ive ent nes te and tp can be sed to ine a new nce d een ese two rns .
the ent nce d ( e , p ) een e and p is ned by
d ( e , p ) = min
iix - yw
the ion of the ent nes te and tp is ven by :
ard , cun , and ker
ere le and lp are the ces ing the ent ors ( see eq .
123 ) and the ors a e and ap are the tes of e ' and p ' in the ing ent nes .
the ies le and lp are tes of the rns so in any ses hey can be ted and red .
ing the ent nce
nts to ing a ear ast res lem .
the ity ion is hat the ial ves of d ( e , p ) ith ect to a p and ae uld be ero :
od ( ~ , p ) = 123 ( e ' ( ae ) _ p ' ( ap t le = 123 od ( ~ , p ) = 123 ( p ' ( ap ) _ e ' ( aet lp = 123
ing e ' and p ' by eir ons lds to the ing ear tem of ons , ich we ust lve for ap and ile :
l; ( e - p - ilp + eae ) = 123 lf ( e - p - pap + ile ) = 123
the ion of his tem is
( pel " 23l ~ - l; ) ( e - p ) = ( pel " lep - lpp ) ap ( plp ~ l; - l ~ ) ( e - p ) = ( lee - plp ~ lpe ) ae
ere lee = lft le , lpe = l ~ le ' l ep = l ~ lp and lpp = l ~ lp .
lu ons 123 lee and lpp can be ted .
the ost ive art in ing his tem is ing lep ( lpe can be ned by ing lep ) .
it res me x mp dot cts , ere me is the ber of ent ors for e and mp is the ber of ent ors for p .
nce lep has een ted , ilp and ile can be ted by ing two ( all ) ear tem of ely me and mp ons .
the ent nce is ned by ing iie ' ( ae ) - p ' ( ap ) 123 ing the lue of a p and ile in ons 123 and 123
if n is the gth of tor e ( or p ) , the thm bed ove res hly n ( e+l ) ( p+l ) 123 ( m ~ +m ~ ) ply - dds .
ons to the ent nce can be ted ore
ore ing the lts of ten git ion nts , we uld ike to ate the rty of " cal nce " of ent nce .
a 123 by 123 xel age lar to the " 123 " in fig 123 was ted by ous nts .
the ent nce ( ing the ent tor ing to nta . l ons ) and the ean nce een the nal age and its ted ion ere red as a ion of the ize k ( in els ) of the ion .
the ult is ted in fig .
it is ear hat the ean nce rts ing rly ith k ile the ent nce ins ery all for ons as rge as two els .
his tes hat , ile ean nce is not ant to ans ( cid : 123 ) ion , ent nce is lly ant .
the ent of the nce can be
ent ern ion ing a new ion nce
~ ~ ~ ~ 123 # of els by ich age is ted
ure 123 : ean and ent ces een a 123 ten git age and its ted ion as a ion of the unt of ion red in
sed by ing the nal age , but ant res may be red way , ing to ion ors .
the ure is not ric for rge ons use the ted age is ted to the 123 by 123 xel eld of the nal age .
in the ing nts , ing was one by ion ith a ian of ard ion u = 123 .
his lue , ich was ted lly , ned out to be rly mal ( but not cal ) .
123 ten git ion
nts ere ted to ate the nce of ent nce for ten git ion .
an ing tic of git ges is hat we can ily ify a set of cal ons ich do not ect the ity of the ter , ile ing a rge ion of the set of ble ces of the ter .
ven uch age ons ere ied : x and y ons , ion , ing , two lic ons ( ich can ate ing and ing ) , and ine ing or ing .
the rst six ons ere sen to pan the set of all ble ear ate rms in the imn ~ e ane ( ess , hey ond to hly non - ear rms in xel ace ) .
nal ons ave een ied ith ess ess .
the est ble use of ent nce is in a est bor ier .
a set of pes is ted rom a ing set , and red in ory .
hen a est ern is to be ied , the j ( est pes ( in rms of ent dis ( cid : 123 ) nce ) are und , and the ern is ven the ass hat has the ity ong the ors .
in our ons , the ize of the ype set is in the ood of 123 , 123
in ple , ing a ern uld ire ing 123 , 123 tan ( cid : 123 ) ent ces , ing to ive ion mes , ite the ncy of the ent nce ion .
ely , two rns hat are ery far art in rms of ean nce are ely to be far art in rms of ent nce .
ore we can use ean nce as a " ter " , and ate pes hat are ely to be ong the est ors .
v ' le sed the ing 123 - tep ion ure : 123 ) the ean nce is ted een the est ern and all the pes , 123 ) the est 123 pes are ted , 123 ) the ent nce een ese 123 pes and the est ern is ted
ard , cun , and ker
man t - lst net
man t - lst net
ure 123 : son of the ror ate of ent est ors and her ods on two ten git ses
and 123 ) the ost ted bel ong the j ( est ype is ted .
his ure is two ers of ude ter han ing all 123 , 123 ent ces , and lds the ame nce .
us tal ice ase : in the rst ent , the ase ted of 123 by 123 xel ize - zed ges of ten its , ing rom us ail pes .
the ire ing set of 123 les of was sed as the ype set .
the est set ned 123 rns .
the est nce was ned ith the " one est eig ~ bor " ule .
the lts are ted in fig .
the ror ate of the hod is 23% .
two ers of our oup led the est set by and ith an ror ate of 23% ( ing one of eir ngs as the uth to est the her lso ded 23% ror ate ) .
his is a ood tor of the vel of lty of his 123 .
the nce of our est ral ork ( le cun et al . , 123 ) was 23% .
the nce of one est bor ith the ean nce was 23% .
ese lts how hat ent nce rms lly ter han oth ard k - est bor and ral rks .
ist ase : the ond ent was a ion zed by the n 123 , ( cid : 123 ) nal ute of rds and ogy .
the ect of the ion was to ify a est set of 123 , 123 ten its , ven a ing set of 123 , 123 rns .
a tal of 123 hms ere ted rom 123 ies rom 123 fer ( cid : 123 ) ent ies .
nce the ing set was so big , a ery ple ure was sed to ect out 123 , 123 rns as pes .
the ure sts of ing a new ase ( pty at the ing ) , and ing ach ern of the rge ase ing the new ase as a ype set .
ach ime an ror is ade , the ern is ded to the new ase .
ore han one ass may ave to be ade ore the new ase is ble .
nce his ing ess uld ake too ong ith 123 , 123 pes , we lit the rge ase nto 123 ler ses of 123 , 123 rns ach , red ose ( to out 123 rns ) and ted the ult , ing a ase of hly 123 , 123 rns .
his ure has any cks , and in lar , it is ery ood at ing up led ers in the ing set .
to act his ate ect , a 123 est ors ure was sed ith ent nce .
the ers ded to ect the
his is an ely ult est set .
res hat eve ess han 23% ror on
her ten git sks ely eve ess han 23% on his one
ent ern ion ing a new ion nce
ing set and the est set ong two ery ent ons ( sus eau ers for the ing set , igh - ool nts for the est set ) , we ore re ( cid : 123 ) ort lts on the ial ist est set ( med " ard est set " ) , and on a set of the ial ing set , ich we ept ide for est ses ( the " asy est set " ) .
the lts are own in fig .
the nce is uch rse on the ard est set nce the ion was ery ent rom hat of the ing set .
out of the 123 nts who sed the ist ing ase , ent nce hed rst .
the all ner did not use the ing set ded by ist ( he sed a uch ger ary ing set ) , and ore was not ted by the ent ons in the ing set and est set .
the ent nce thm bed in the ion ion can be ved / ted in at ast our ent ays : 123 ) ing the ent nce for ter eed 123 ) ing the ent nce elf , 123 ) ing the set of ons / ent ors and 123 ) ing the ent nce ith las ( cid : 123 ) ion hms her han k - est ors , aps in ion , to ize the ber of pes .
we ill uss ach of ese cts in urn .
ion : the nce een two nes te and tp ing ugh p and e can be ted by ing the ion eep ) of nto te and pp ( e ) of e nto tp .
the nce ipe ( p ) - pp ( e ) 23i can be ted in o ( n ( me + mp ply - dds and is a rly ood ion of d ( e , p ) .
his ion can be ved at ery low ost by ing the est nts een the nes ned by ( e , eep ~ and ( p , pp ( e .
his ion was sed ith no oss of nce to uce the ber of ted ent nce rom 123 to 123 ( his ves an nal " ter " ) .
in the ase of ges , her ime - ing dea is to ute ent nce on ely ler ets of ely her ion ges .
ing the nce : one may rry hat the ent nes of e and p may be lel and be ery ose at a ery ant ion ( a bad ide ect of the ear a . ion ) .
his ect can be ted by ing a int of the orm eii < f ( e and pli < f ( p .
his int was ted but did not eld ter lts .
the son is hat ent nes are tly nal in igh nal ace and the rms of ( ( eii and ! pll are ady all .
the ent nce can be zed by ing it by the orm of the ors .
his ves the lts tly use it ets ide cts ced in ome ons uch as ing .
eed , if ing is a ion of est , ere is a ial ger of ing the mum nce een two ges ter hey ave een led own to a gle int .
the ear ion of the ing ion oes not ach his eme , but ill lds a ght ion of the nce .
the ror ate ted on the sps ase can be ved to 23% ing his ion ( ich was not ied on ist ) .
ent nce can be wed as one ion of a ton - ype thm ich nds the nts of mum nce on the rue ion lds .
the ors ae and ap are the tes of the two est nts in the ive ent ces , but hey can lso be ted for eal ( non - ear ) rma ( cid : 123 ) ons .
if ae; is the unt of the ion ent tor hat ust be ded to e to ake it as ose as ble to p , we can ute the rue ion of age e by ae , ; els .
in her rds , e ' ( ae ) and pl ( ap ) are ted nto
ard , cun , and ker
ose nts of se and sp .
his ves a ing but can be one tly .
nce his new age has een ted , the ing ent ors can be ted for his new age and the ess can be ted .
lly his ill rge to a cal mum in the nce een the two ion old of p and e .
the ent nce eds to be zed for his ion ess to ork .
a ori dge : the a ori dge sed for ent ors nds tly on the ion .
for ter ion , ess was one of the ost ant ons , ing the ror ate rom 23% to 23% .
uch a ion uld be ess in , say , ech or ace ion .
her ons uch as cal ber eet ons may be ing for ter ion .
ons can be own a ori or ned rom the her hms , ing the ber of pes : ent nce is a ral hod hat can be ied to ems her han age ion , ith ion ods her han k - est ors .
any nce - ba . sed ion mes uld be sed in ion ith ent nce , ong hem lvq ( nen , 123 ) , and ial sis ons .
nce all the ors in ( cid : 123 ) ved in the ent nce are ble , it is ble to ute the ial ive of the ent nce ( een an ect and a ype ) ith ect to the ent ors , or ith ect to the ype .
ore the ent nce ors can be ted in ent - ent sed ive nes ( of ich lvq and ref are lar ses ) .
the ain age of ing the pes or the ent ors is hat wer pes may be ded to ach the ame ( or ior ) vel of nce as , say , lar k - est ors .
in ion , ent nce can tly ove any of the nce - sed hms .
we ave sed ent nce in the ple k - est bor al ( cid : 123 ) thm and med all ing ues on ard ion sks .
his ing ess is bly due the act hat a ori dge can be ery ely sed in the orm of ent ors .
una . ely , any hms are sed on ing ces and can be ted to ess a ori dge in a lar ion .
ing tes ude zen ows , ing tor ion and ial sis ons .
