in any ine ing ons , one has ess , not nly to ing ata , but lso to ome igh - vel a ori dge out the red be ( cid : 123 ) ior of the tem .
for ple , it is own in nce hat the put of a ter zer uld be ant ith ect to all spa ( cid : 123 ) ial ons of the put ges ( ons , ons , ale ges , we ave ted a eme hat ows a ork to arn the iva ( cid : 123 ) ive of its uts ith ect to ion ors of our ing .
his not nly ces the ing ime and the unt of ing ata , but lso des a ful age for ing hat ons we ish the ork to orm .
in ine ing , one ery ten ows ore out the ion to be ned han ust the ing ata .
an ing ase is hen ain nal iva ( cid : 123 ) ves of the red ion are own at ain nts .
for ple , an age
ard , rri , le cun , and ker
ure 123 : top : all ons of an nal tal age of the git " 123 " ( ter ) .
dle : ion of the ect of the ion in the put tor ace ace ( ing ere are nly 123 els ) .
tom : ges ned by ing ong the ent to the ion rve for the ame nal tal age ( dle ) .
ion tem ght eed to be ant ith ect to all ons of the put age uch as ons , ons , ngs , etc . ; a ech ion tem n . ght eed to be ant to ime ons or tch fts .
rds , the ive of the tem ' s put uld be ual to ero hen the put is med in ain ays .
ven a rge unt of ing ata and ted ing ime , the tem uld arn ese ces rom the ata one , but his is ten ble .
the ion on ata can be ome by ing the tem ith nal ata ned by ing ( ing , ing , etc . ) the nal rns ( ird , 123 ) .
the top of fig .
123 ows ial ata ted by ing a tal age of the git " 123 " ( ith the nal in the ter ) .
his ure , led the " ion del " , has two cks .
rst , the ser ust ose the ude of ion and how any ces uld be ted .
ond , and ore tly , the ted ata is hly ted ith the nal ata .
his kes nal ing hms uch as ack ion ery ent .
the ted ata ies nly a ery all tal unt of ion , nce the ted rns are not ery ent rom the nal nes .
it may not be ble to ust the ing tem so hat ing the ces eds at a ble ate ile ing the nal nts is non - ent .
the key dea in his per is hat it is ble to tly arn the ect on the put of ing the put , tly rom ing the ted
ent rop - a ism for ing ted ces in an ive ork
ure 123 : ing a ven ion ( lid ine ) rom a ted set of ple ( xl to 123 ) .
the ted ves are own in ted ine .
top : the nly int is hat the ted rve oes ugh the les .
tom : the ted ves not nly oes ugh ach les but lso its ves ted at the les ree ith the ves of the ven ion .
rns .
hen a ern p is med ( e . g .
ted ) ith a ion s hat nds on one ter a ( e . g .
the gle of the ion ) , the set of all the med rns s ( p ) = ( sea , p ) va ) is a one nal rve in the tor ace of the uts ( see fig .
in ain ses , uch as ons of tal ges , his rve ust be ade ous ing ing ues , as ill be own low .
hen the set of ons is zed by n ers ai ( ion , ion , ing , etc . ) , s ( p ) is a old of at ost n ons .
the rns in s ( p ) hat are ned ugh all ons of p , i . e .
the art of s ( p ) hat is ose to p , can be ted by a ane ent to the old s ( p ) at int p .
all ons of p can be ned by ing to p a ear ion of ors hat pan the ent ane ( ent ors ) .
the ges at the tom of fig .
123 ere ned by hat ure .
ore tly , the ent ors can be sed to ify igh der nts on the ion to be ned , as ned low .
to ate the hod , der the lem of ing a gle - ued ion f rom a ted set of les .
123 ( eft ) nts a ple ase ere the red ion f ( lid ine ) is to be ted by a ion g ( ted ine ) rom our les ( ( xi , f ( xi ) ) ) 123 , 123 , 123 , 123
as ied in the ure , the ted ion g ely ees ith the red ion f een the les .
if the ons f and g are med to be ble ( ich is lly the ase ) , the ion g can be tly ved by ing hat g ' s ves ted at the nts ( xd are ual to the ves of f at the ame nts ( fig .
123 ght ) .
his ult can be ded to nal uts .
in his ase , we can ose the ity of the ves of f and g in ain ons , not ily in all ons of the put ace .
uch nts ind ate use in nal ing ems .
it is ten the ase hat a ori dge is ble on how the red ion ies ith
ard , rri , le cun , and ker
ted by ex
ure 123 : how to ute a ent tor for a ven ion ( in his ase
ect to ome ons of the put .
it is ard to ive the ing int on the nal ves of the ted ion g in the ons of the ons ( sly med ent ors ) .
cal les can be und in ern ion ere the red ion unc ( cid : 123 ) ion is own to be ant ith ect to ome ion of the put uch as ion , ion , ing , etc . , in her rds , the nal ves of the ion ion in the ons of ese ons is ero .
the ion can be ded nto two rts .
the rst art sts in com ( cid : 123 ) ing the ent ors .
his art is ent rom the ing thm sed tly .
the ond art sts in ing the ing thm ( for nce rop ) to ate the ion out the ent ors .
art i : let x be an put ern and s be a ion tor ing on the put ace and ing on a ter a .
if s is a ion tor for nce , hen s ( a , x ) tes the put x ted by the gle a .
we ill ire hat the ion tor s be ble ith ect to a and x , and hat s ( o , x ) = x .
the ent tor is by ion 23s ( a , x ) / 23a .
it can be ted by a ite nce , as own in fig .
in the ure , the put ace is a 123 by 123 xel age and the rns are ges of ten its .
the ons red are ons of the git ges .
the ent tor is ned in two eps .
rst the age is ted by an mal unt a .
his is one by ing the ted tes of ach xel and ing the ray vel ues at the new tes .
his ion can be sly ned ith ome ing ing a ion .
a ion ith a ian des an ent ion eme in o ( nm ) ply - dds , ere and m are the ( ian ) nel and age zes ely .
the ext tep is to act ( xel by xel ) the ted age rom the nal age and to ide the ult
ent rop - a ism for ing ted ces in an ive ork
by the lar 123 ( see fig .
if ie pes of ons are red , ere ill be ie ent ent ors per ern .
for ost hms , ese do not ire any age ace nce hey can be ted as ded rom the nal ern at ble ost .
art it : ent rop is an ion of the ion thm , ing it to arn nal ves .
her hms uch as ial sis ons can be ded in a lar ion .
to ent our dea , we ill ify the ual ght - ate ule : is ced ith ~ w = - 123 ) ow ( e + j . ter )
~ w = - 123 ) ow
ere 123 ) is the ing ate , e the ual ive ion , er an nal jec ( cid : 123 ) ive ion ( a zer ) hat res the ncy een the ual and red nal ves in the ons of ome ted ons , and j . t is a ing ent .
let x be an put ern , y = g ( x ) be the put - put ion of the ork .
the zer er is of the orm
ere er ( x ) is
: e e set
ere , ki ( x ) is the red nal ive of g in the ion ced by ion si ied to ern x .
the ond erm in the orm bol is the ual nal ive , ich can be ten as
= g ' ( x ) .
osi ( o , x )
ere g ' ( x ) is the ian of g for ern x , and osi ( o , x ) joo is the ent tor ted to ion si as bed in art i .
ing the ent tor by the ian ves one ard ion ugh a " zed " ion of the ork .
in the ial ase ere cal nce ith ect to the si ' s is red , ki ( x ) is ply set to o .
ion of ons : the ory of lie ups ( ore , 123 ) res hat ons of cal ( all ) ons si ond to ear ons of the ing ent ors ( the cal ons si ave a ure of lie bra ) .
tly , if er ( x ) = 123 is ied , the ork ive in the ion of a ear ion of the ent ors is ual to the ame ear ion of the red ves .
in her rds if the ork is lly ned to be lly ant ith ect to , say , tal ion and cal ons , it ill be ant ith ect to ons we ave ved and ted an ent thm , " ent rop " , for per ( cid : 123 ) ing the ght ate ( eq .
it is ous to ary ion ,
ard , rri , le cun , and ker
ure 123 : ard ted les ( a , x , a , e ) , and ard ted ari ( cid : 123 ) les ( b , y , p , t / j ) in the lar ork ( man ols ) and the ian ( lin ( cid : 123 ) zed ) ork ( eek ols )
but in ion to ing ron ons , it lso tes the ent ors .
the ons can be ily ved rom fig
a ~ = ~ wl x ' . - l
x ~ = u ( ad
ent ard ion :
, _ ~ , ~ ' - 123 ai - l . . . j ww " i
e ! = u ' ( a ~ ) a ~
ent ent ion :
( 123 - ~ w ' 23i . 123 i - l . . . j
b ' - ~ 23+ 123 i - l . . . j
123 ( e ( w , up ) + i ' er ( w , up , tp ) ) _ 123 - 123 , + ~ ' - l . i . '
- xi yi
ent rop - - a ism for ing ted ces in an ive ork
the est set
ing set ize
ure 123 : ion nce rve as a ion of the ing set ize for the ent rop and the rop hms
the ion ter jj is sly ant , use it nes the off een ing the ual ive ion and ing the nal ive ror .
two nts ate the ges of ent rop .
the rst ent is a ion ask , ing a all ( rly ble ) set of 123 zed and ( cid : 123 ) ten git .
the ing ets ist of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 or 123 rns , and the ing set ins the ing 123 rns .
the rns are hed ing a ian nel ith ard ion of one alf xel .
for ach of the ing set rns , the ent ors for tal and cal ion are ted .
the ork has two den ers ith lly ted red hts , and one put yer ith 123 its ( 123 ons , 123 ree ame ( cid : 123 ) ers ) ( le cun , 123 ) .
the ion nce as a ion of the ing set ize for nal rop and ent rop are red in fig .
we ave ted nal nts in ich we ted not nly ons but lso ons , ons and lic ons .
his set of 123 ner ( cid : 123 ) ors is a sis for all ear ons of tes for two nal ges .
it is ard to ent her ors ing ray - vel ( cid : 123 ) ing , " oth " ion , cal ous ate ons and ent age ent ons .
the ext ent is ned to how hat in ons ere ata is hly
ard , rri , le cun , and ker
av " ge mse vi 3ge
mse vi .
o 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
- 123 . 123 + - - _+_ - _ - - +_ - _+_ - _ - _
ure 123 : son of the ion del ( eft umn ) and ent rop ( ght umn ) .
the top row ves the ing ves ( ror sus ber of eps ugh the ing set ) .
the tom row ves the nal put - put ion of the rk; the hed ine is the ult for ned ack rop .
ent rop - a ism for ing ted ces in an ive ork
ted , ent rop lds a rge eed age .
nce the ion del ies ing ots of hly ted ata , the age of ent rop ver the ion del mes ear .
the ask is to ate a ion hat has aus at ree ons .
we ant to rce cal nce ear ach of the ing nts ( fig .
123 , tom ) .
the ork has one put nit , 123 den its and one put nit .
two ies are ble : her ate a all set of ing int ing ach of the aus ( pen res on fig .
123 tom ) , or ate one ing int for ach eau ( sed res ) , and rce cal nce und hem ( by ing the red ive to 123 ) .
the ing set of the mer hod is sed as a ure the nce for oth ods .
all ers ere ted for ely mal nce in all ses .
the ing ves for oth els are own in fig .
123 ( top ) .
ach eep ugh the ing set for ent rop is a tle ter nce it res nly 123 ard ons , ile it res 123 in the ion del .
as can be een , ble nce is ved ter 123 eps for the ent rop , sus 123 for the ion del .
the all dup is ore ent rop in his ple can ake age of a ery rge ion erm .
the ion del is at a age use the nly ter hat fec ( cid : 123 ) ely ols the unt of ion is the ude of the ons , and his not be sed to rge ues use the ght wer is nly ant der all ons .
hen a ori ion out ces sts , his ion ust be ade ble to the ive tem .
ere are ral ays of ing his , ing the ion del and ent rop .
the ter may be uch ore ent in ome ons , and it its ate rol of the sis and ing ate for the ces , ive to the nal ing ata nts .
ing a tem to ave ero ves in ome ons is a ful ool to ess ces to ons of our ing .
sts of his ure on rge - ale ons ( ten ode ion ) are in ess .
