abstractdesigning a brain computer interface ( bci ) system one can choose from a variety of features that may be useful for classifying brain activity during a mental task .
for the special case of classifying electroencephalogram ( eeg ) signals we propose the usage of the state of the art feature selection algorithms recursive feature elimination ( 123 ) and zero - norm optimization ( 123 ) which are based on the training of support vector machines ( svm ) ( 123 ) .
these algorithms can provide more accurate solutions than stan - dard filter methods for feature selection ( 123 ) .
we adapt the methods for the purpose of selecting eeg chan - nels .
for a motor imagery paradigm we show that the number of used channels can be reduced significantly without increasing the classification error .
the resulting best channels agree well with the expected underlying cortical activity patterns during the mental
furthermore we show how time dependent task specific infor -
mation can be visualized .
index termsbrain computer interface ( bci ) , channel rele - vance , channel selection , electroencephalography ( eeg ) , feature relevance , feature selection , recursive feature elimination ( rfe ) , support vector machine ( svm ) , zero norm optimization ( l123 - opt ) .
m ost brain computer interfaces ( bcis ) make use of
lead to distinguishable electroen - cephalogram ( eeg ) signals of two or more classes .
for some tasks the relevant recording positions are known , especially when the tasks comprise motor imagery , e . g . , the imagination of limb movements , or the overall activity of large parts of the cortex that occurs during intentions or states of preparation and
for the development of new paradigms whose neural corre - lates are not known in such detail , finding optimal recording positions for use in bcis is challenging .
new paradigms can be - come necessary when motor cortex areas show lesions , for the increase of the information rate of bci systems or for robust multi - class bcis .
if good recording positions are not known , a simple approach is to use data from as many as possible eeg
manuscript received july 123 , 123; revised march 123 , 123
this work was supported in part by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) and in part by the national institute of health ( nih ) .
asterisk indicates corresponding author .
lal is with max - planck - institut for biological cybernetics , spe -
mannstr .
123 , tbingen 123 , germany ( e - mail : navin@tuebingen . mpg . de ) .
schrder and m .
bogdan are with eberhard karls university tbingen , department of computer engineering , tbingen 123 , germany ( e - mail :
hinterberger and n .
birbaumer are with eberhard karls university tbingen , institute of medical psychology and behavioral neurobiology , tbingen 123 , germany ( e - mail :
weston and b .
schlkopf are with max - planck - institut for biological cybernetics , tbingen 123 , germany ( e - mail : jason . weston@tuebingen .
digital object identifier 123 / tbme . 123
the position of 123 eeg electrodes used for data acquisition are marked in solid black circles .
the two referencing electrodes are marked in
electrodes for signal classification .
the drawback of this ap - proach is that the extend to which feature selection and clas - sification algorithms overfit to noise increases with the number of task - irrelevant features , especially when the ratio of training points and number of features is small .
in addition , it is difficult to understand which part of the brain generates the class rele -
we show that the selection of recording positions can be done robustly in the absence of prior knowledge about the spatial dis - tribution of brain activity of a mental task .
specifically we adapt the state of the art feature selection methods zero - norm opti - mization ( l123 - opt ) and recursive feature elimination ( rfe ) to the problem of channel selection and demonstrate the usefulness of these methods on the well known paradigm of motor imagery .
the paper is structured as follows : section ii contains the experimental setup , the task , and the basic data preprocessing .
in section iii , the feature selection methods and the classification algorithm are described .
results are given in section iv and the final section concludes .
data acquisition
experimental setup and mental task
we recorded eeg signals from eight untrained right handed male subjects using 123 silver chloride electrodes ( see fig .
the reference electrodes were positioned at tp123 and tp123
123 - 123 / 123$123 123 ieee
ieee transactions on biomedical engineering , vol .
123 , no .
123 , june 123
two electrodes fp123 and 123 cm lateral of the right eye ( eog ) were used to record possible eog artifacts and eye blinks while two fronto - temporal and two occipital electrodes were positioned to detect possible muscle activity during the experiment .
before sampling the data at 123 hz an analog bandpass filter with cutoff frequencies 123 hz and 123 hz was applied .
the subjects were seated in an armchair at 123 - m distance in front of a computer screen .
following the experimental setup of ( 123 ) the subjects were asked to imagine left versus right hand movements during each trial .
with every subject , we recorded 123 trials during one single session .
the total length of each trial was 123 s .
additional intertrial intervals for relaxation varied randomly between 123 and 123 s .
no outlier detection was performed and no trials were removed during the data processing at any
each trial started with a blank screen .
a small fixation cross was displayed in the center of the screen from second 123 to 123
a cue in the form of a small arrow pointing to the right or left side was visible for half a second starting with second 123
in order to avoid event related signals in later processing stages , only data from seconds 123 to 123 of each trial was considered for further analysis .
feedback was not provided at any time .
as pfurtscheller and da silva have reported ( 123 ) that move - ment related desynchronization of the - rhythm ( 123 hz ) is not equally strong in subjects and might even fail for various reasons ( e . g . , because of too short intertrial intervals that pre - vent a proper re - synchronization ) we performed a preanalysis in order to identify and exclude subjects that did not show sig -
- activity at all .
for seven of the eight subjects the
- band was only slightly differing from the 123 hz usually given in the eeg literature .
only one subject showed scarcely any activity in this frequency range but instead a recognizable movement related desynchro - nization in the 123 hz band .
restricted to only the 123 eeg channels that were located over or close to the motor cortex we calculated the maximum energy - band using the welch method ( 123 ) for each subject .
this feature extraction resulted in one parameter per trial and channel and explicitly incorporated prior knowledge about the
the eight data sets consisting of the welch - features were clas - sified with linear svms ( see below ) including individual model selection for each subject .
generalization errors were estimated by tenfold cross validation ( cv ) .
as for three subjects the pre - analysis showed very poor error rates close to chance level their data sets were excluded from further analysis .
data preprocessing
for the remaining five subjects the recorded 123 s windows of each trial resulted in a time series of 123 sample points per channel .
we fitted an autoregressive ( ar ) model of order 123 to the time series123 of all 123 channels using forward backward linear
prediction ( 123 ) .
the three resulting coefficients per channel and trial formed the new representation of the data .
the extraction of the features did not explicitly incorporate prior knowledge although ar models have successfully been used for motor related tasks ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
however , they are not directly linked to the
for all five data sets ) and let
let denote the number of training vectors ( trials ) of the data denote the data for all five data sets ) .
the training
data for a classifier is denoted as denotes imagined right hand movement .
the terms dimension and feature are used synonymously .
for by removing the
denotes imagined left hand movement ,
for the task used in
is obtained from a set
dimension from every point
feature selection and classification methods feature selection algorithms can be characterized as either filter or wrapper methods ( 123 ) .
they select or omit dimensions of the data depending on a performance measure .
the problem of how to rate the relevance of a feature if non - linear interactions between features are present is not trivial , es - pecially since the overall accuracy might not be monotonic in the number of features used .
some feature selection methods try to overcome this problem by optimizing the feature selection for subgroups of fixed sizes ( plus - l take - away - r search ) or by imple - menting floating strategies ( e . g . , floating forward search ) ( 123 ) .
only few algorithms like , e . g . , genetic algorithms can choose subgroups of arbitrary size during the feature selection process .
they have successfully been used for the selection of spatial features ( 123 ) in bci applications but are computationally de -
for the application of eeg channel selection , it is necessary to treat a certain kind of grouped features homogenously : nu - merical values belonging to one and the same eeg channel have to be dealt with in a congeneric way so that a spatial interpre - tation of the solution becomes possible .
we adapted the state of the art feature selection methods 123 - opt and rfe as well as the fisher correlation to implement these specific requirements .
the first two algorithms are closely related to svms .
support vector machines ( svms )
the svm is a relatively new classification technique devel - oped by vapnik ( 123 ) which has shown to perform strongly in a number of real - world problems , including bci ( 123 ) .
the central from two classes by finding a idea is to separate data
of a hyperplane
and an offset
123for this choice , we compared different model orders .
for a given order , we fitted an ar - model to each eeg sequence .
after proper model selection a sup - port vector machine ( svm ) with tenfold cv was trained on the coefficients .
model order 123 resulted in the best mean cv error .
with the largest possible margin , 123 which apart from being an intuitive idea has been shown to provide theoretical guaranties in
123is x linear separable the margin of a hyperplane is the distance of the hy -
perplane to the closest point x 123 x .
lal et al . : support vector channel selection in bci
for example ( 123 ) )
- norm as in standard svms ( see ,
the solution of this optimization problem is usually much sparser than the solution of problem ( 123 ) .
thus , feature selection is done implicitly .
unfortunately the problem has shown to be np - hard but the authors developed an iterative method to approximate the solution .
in case the solution has less than the desired number of zero entries , the remaining features can be ranked according to
( as in one iteration step of rfe ) .
in the original version of the method , the features are multi - plied with a scaling factor during each iteration .
once a scaling factor is zero , the corresponding feature is removed .
we adapt this method in the following way : the scaling factors of the fea - tures corresponding to a channel are substituted by their mean .
thus , all features of one channel are either removed completely ( the channel is removed ) or all features remain .
as in the case has to be estimated from the of svm and rfe , the parameter training data in case prior knowledge is not available .
recursive feature elimination ( rfe )
this feature selection method was prosed by guyon et al .
( 123 ) and is based on the concept of margin maximization .
the importance of a dimension is determined by the influence it has on the margin of a trained svm .
let be the inverse of the
that correspond to the smallest
at each iteration one svm is trained and the features which are removed ( typ - ically that is one feature only ) ; this is equivalent to removing .
we adapt this method for channel selection in the following way : let to the reformulation of the fc and the 123 - opt , we define for .
at each it - eration step we remove the channel with the lowest score .
the has to be estimated from the training data , if no prior knowledge is available .
denote the features from channel
for the remainder of the paper we refer to the adapted feature selection methods as channel selection methods .
furthermore , we will also refer to the adapted rfe as recursive channel
linear svm .
for nonseparable data sets , slack variables introduced .
the thick points on the dashed lines are called support vectors ( svs ) .
the solution for the hyperplane h can be written in terms of the svs .
for more detail see section iii - a .
terms of generalization ability ( 123 ) .
one variant of the algorithm consists of solving the following optimization problem :
are called slack variables and ensure that the problem has a solution in case the data is not linear separable123 ( see fig .
the margin is defined as in practice , one has to trade - off between a low training error , , and a large margin .
this trade - off is controlled by the regularization parameter part of the model selection procedure .
if no prior knowledge is has to be estimated from the training data , e . g . , by using cv .
the value is also referred to as the ridge .
for a detailed discussion please refer to ( 123 ) .
finding a good value for
fisher criterion ( fc )
the fc determines how strongly a feature is correlated with
the labels ( 123 ) .
for a set
is then given by
and the variance
the score
similarly .
the rank of a channel is simply set to the mean score of the corresponding
zero - norm optimization ( l123 - opt )
generalization error estimation
weston et al .
( 123 ) recently suggested to minimize the
123is the data linear separable the slack variables can improve the generalization
ability of the solutions .
123the zero - norm of a vector v is equal to number of nonzero entries of v .
for model selection purposes we estimated the generalization
error of classifiers via tenfold cv .
if the generalization error of a channel selection method had to be estimated , a somewhat more elaborated procedure was used .
an illustration of this procedure is given in fig
ieee transactions on biomedical engineering , vol .
123 , no .
123 , june 123
illustration of the procedure for channel selection and error estimation
usual cv .
in each fold performed based on the train set of ranking of the 123 eeg channels .
for each fold
the whole data set is split up into 123 folds ( f123 to f123 ) as for , the channel selection ( cs in fig .
123 ) is only , leading to a specific , 123 classifiers is trained on the and tested on .
for each fold ,
best123 channels , respectively , of the train set of
are trained as follows :
the corresponding channels of the test set of this results in 123 test errors (
during the last step , the corresponding test errors are aver - aged over all folds .
this leads to an estimate of the generaliza - tion error for every number of selected channels .
channel selection
we applied the three channel selection methods fc , rfe , and 123 - opt introduced in section iii to the five data sets .
as the ex - perimental paradigm is well known , we could examine the re - sults concerning their physiological plausibility .
therefore , we investigated whether the best ranked channels are those situated over or close to motor areas .
furthermore we analyzed if the number of channels can be reduced without a loss of accuracy in terms of cv error .
123in this context , best means according to the calculated ranking of that fold .
comparison of the three channel selection methods fisher score , rfe and l123 - opt individually for five subjects and averaged over the subjects .
method rfe allows the strongest reduction of number of channels for all subjects .
initial to the channel selection and individually for each sub - for later svm trainings
was estimated via tenfold cv from the training data sets . 123
, the regularization parameter
the estimation of the generalization error for all 123 stages of the channel selection process123 was carried out using linear svms as classifiers with parameters details about the tenfold cv during the estimation procedure are described in section iii - e and fig
the estimation results are depicted in fig .
the first five plots show the individual generalization error for the five sub - jects against the different numbers of channels chosen by the three channel selection methods .
the sixth plot in the bottom right corner shows the generalization error of the three methods averaged over the five subjects .
123estimating the parameter for each number of channels in the process of channel selection might improve the accuracy .
however the chance of overfit -
123in fact , methods rfe and l123 - opt perform rather a channel removal than a
lal et al . : support vector channel selection in bci
rfe ranking of 123 eeg
idealized generalization error curve using a channel selection method in the presence of irrelevant channels .
when removing channels iteratively the classification error decreases slightly until all irrelevant channels are removed .
removing more channels results in an increase of error .
investigated experimental paradigm this can be done without a loss of classification accuracy .
for example , using 123 channels yields the same error as the error obtained using the cv error of 123% all channels .
on the data set of subject can be reduced to 123% using 123 channels only .
it is not tractable to test all
possible combinations of channels to find the best combination .
in this light , the 123 chan - nels located over or close to the motor cortex can be considered a very good solution that is close to the optimal one .
for rating the overall accuracy of the rfe method we , thus , trained a clas - sifier using these 123 channels .
the result averaged over the five subjects is plotted as a baseline in the last figure .
the average error rate ( taken over all subjects ) of 123% using 123 channels is very close to the error of the baseline which is 123% .
table i contains channel rankings , which are obtained by ap - plying recursive channel elimination to the data set of each subject . 123 as the rfe method has outperformed cf and l123 - opt , the rankings in table i were exclusively calculated by rfe .
to interpret the table it is useful to have a closer look at fig .
it shows an idealized curve for an estimate of the generalization error when using a channel or feature selection method .
as we have also seen in the experiments it is possible to reduce the number of channels without a loss of accuracy .
for each subject we can obtain a heuristic estimate on the number of irrelevant channels from the generalization error curves in fig .
we un - derlined one entry in each column of table i .
the row number of that entry is an estimate for the rank position that divides task relevant channels from task irrelevant ones .
for example , fig .
123 shows a local minimum of the rfe gener - alization error curve at 123 channels .
thus , the best 123 selected channels can be used without increasing the error estimate .
the positions of the 123 channels over or close to the motor cortex were marked with a grey background .
except for very few of them , these channels have a high rank .
for four of the subjects only few other ( nonmotor ) channels were ranked above the marked minimum - error positions ( see underlined ranks )
123please note that in this step cv was not applied .
the ranking of the 123 eeg channels was calculated by the rfe method .
the 123 channels over or close to motor areas of the cortex are marked with grey background for all five subjects .
underlined rank positions mark the estimated minimum of the rfe error curve for every subject from which on the error rate increases prominently ( see fig .
123 for the individual error curves )
rfe and 123 - opt proof to be capable of selecting relevant channels , whereas the fc fails for some subjects .
especially for small numbers of channels rfe is slightly superior over the fc and 123 - opt .
for larger numbers of channels the performance of l123 - opt is comparable to rfe .
as can be seen in fig .
123 it is possible to reduce the number of
eeg channels significantly using the rfe methodfor the
ieee transactions on biomedical engineering , vol .
123 , no .
123 , june 123
visualization of task relevant regions for subjects a , b , d and e ( one subject per column ) during imagined hand movements .
the score for each channel was obtained by using the rfe method and is based on the full duration of 123 s .
the top row depicts the view from above , the second and third row show the frontal view and view from the back .
please see also the left column of fig .
123 for the corresponding mapping of subject c .
to the ranking .
to verify this observation we
channels ft123 , ft123 , and fp123 are relevant according
( cid : 123 ) estimated the classification error using the seventeen motor channels and compared it to the error using the motor channels plus ft123 , ft123 , fp123 , and eog .
indeed by adding artefact channels the error could be reduced from 123% to 123% .
( cid : 123 ) trained an svm based on these artefact channels only .
the performance was poor : only 123% accuracy could be reached in a tenfold cv svm training . 123
that means that although feedback was not provided this subject showed task relevant muscle activity .
however his performance was only supported by this muscle activity .
the other four sub - jects did not accompany the left / right tasks with corresponding
we conclude that the rfe method was capable of estimating physiologically meaningful eeg channels for the imagined left / right hand paradigm .
the visualization of channel scores can support the analysis of bci experiments , reveal activation patterns or channels car - rying misleading artifacts and ease the choice of channel sub -
for visualization purposes we assigned a score calculated by rfe to each channel .
the channels below the underlined entries of table i receive a score of 123
the ones above the underlined entries are mapped to the grey value scale according to their rank .
123 and 123 show the task relevant channels for the five subjects .
black regions in both plots mark channels irrelevant for the classification task whereas white regions mark relevant
123the ridge was explicitly optimized for this test .
123this observation was supported by visual inspection and frequency analysis of the raw eeg signalonly very little muscle activity or other forms of artifacts could be detected .
visualization of task relevant regions for subject c ( top , front and back view ) .
the leftmost column shows the scores obtained by rfe based on the complete duration of 123 s .
the remaining three columns show the development of the scores over time .
the rankings were obtained by applying the rfe method separately on the three shorter , overlapping time windows .
for all subjects the informative regions are located close to shows a clear and symmetrical con - the motor cortex .
subject centration of important channels .
the second column of fig .
123 has additional important channels also shows , that subject outside the motor area probably resulting from muscle activity ( as discussed above ) .
as the generalization error was minimal for the data of sub - ject we performed a closer examination of this data .
columns 123 to 123 of fig .
123 visualize the spatial distribution of task specific information over time .
we split the training data into three over - lapping windows each of 123 - s length .
for every time window , we applied channel selection via rfe separately .
it can be ob - served that the three resulting score patterns vary from window to window .
this could be due to an instable channel selection .
another reason might be that the task related activation pattern changes over time .
both issues will be addressed in future ex -
we adapted two state of the art feature selection algorithms rfe and l123 - opt as well as the fc for the special case of eeg channel selection for bci applications .
the methods were applied to the paradigm of motor imagery .
we showed that both rfe and l123 - opt are capable of signifi - cantly reducing the number of channels needed for a robust clas - sification without an increase of error .
in our experiments , the fc failed to discover satisfying channel rankings .
the reason for the decrease in performance of the l123 - opt compared to the rfe for smaller numbers of channels might be that on average the recursive l123 - opt algorithm could not de - crease the number of chosen channels to less than 123 before the recursion converged .
this means that all the remaining chan - nels were ranked according to the solution of only one svm .
to overcome this shortcoming of l123 - opt we suggest the following procedure : channels are reduced with l123 - opt until the minimum is obtained .
in a next step , the remaining channels are ranked using an iterative method like rfe instead of relying on a single svm solution .
this combination method was not in - vestigated in this paper but will be subject to future research .
lal et al . : support vector channel selection in bci
although we did not incorporate explicit prior knowledge of the mental task or its underlying neural substrates , channels that are well known to be important ( from a physiological point of view ) were consistently selected by rfe whereas task irrelevant channels were disregarded .
furthermore the method revealed the use of muscular activity for one subject .
we introduced a method to visualize the channel rankings .
this method can also be used to visualize the spatial change of task relevant information over time .
the results suggest that the rfe method can be used for new experimental paradigms in future bci researchespecially if no a priori knowledge about the location of important channels
the authors would like to thank r .
rrig for her restless data processing as well as b .
battes and prof .
kirschfeld for their help with the eeg recordings .
they extend special thanks to g .
bakir for fruitful discussion .
