ab pa co so id ta at ad ou un of th fe sp as wi su ve ( sv ) ke fu .
we rs di th ge of fe sp .
in pa , we re wh is kn ab th sh of th im of in sp un th fe sp ma , an ho th in th ca of sv me .
fo th , we de ho th me go th in ge of th ma su ca be co in te of th ke , us th ex of th cl of in po ke , wh ar of us in sv pa re .
we th di th co be fe sp an in sp by de wi th qu of ho on ca , gi so ve in fe sp , nd a pr ( ex or ap ) in in sp .
we de al to ta th is , an sh th ut in tw ap of ke me .
fi , we us it to re th co co of sv de fu se , we co it wi th ke pc al , th co a no st de te wh is sh to pe we on re - wo da .
in te de , ke me , pc , re se
me , sp re , su ve ma .
re ke ar fu
fo pa se
gi ri to po ma
is so co se in wh th da li , ty in th su ve ( bu no ne ) a su of ( sv ) co , re ke ar of re to as me ke ( se ii - b wi sh wh ) .
th pr an el wa of de wi no al by re th to li on in so fe sp in of a do pr in re to in sp : us co to ma th da in a po hi - by a ( us no ) ma
di do pr sp
ma re ja 12 , 12 re ma 12 , 12
pa of th wo wa do wh p .
kn wa wi be la an b .
sc an a .
sm we wi th de of en , au na un , ca .
th wo wa su by th ar an th df un gr ja 12 / 12 , 12 , 12
sc wa wi gm fi , 12 be , ge .
he is no
wi mo re lt . , ca cb , u . k .
mi , k . - r .
mu , g .
ra , an a .
sm ar wi gm fi ,
12 be , ge .
bu is wi be la , ho nj , us .
kn is wi th ma - pl - in fu bi ky ,
12 tu , ge .
pu it id s 12 - 12 ( 12 ) 12 - 12
, an ta th do pr th , i . e . , ( 12 )
a fe ma as - by vi of th pr , we sh ca ci wi an li al wh ca be ca ou in te of do pr ca be ma no by su an a pr ch ke .
ex of su al in th po fu me , sv ma , an ke pc ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ( 12 ) .
th pr th on ha to pa fo th el , ho , is th th so ar on ob as ex in te of in pa ma in fe sp .
fo in , th no ve of an sv hy is ex in te of sv , ju as th ke pc fe ex ar ex in te of tr ex
wi so ma te po
wh ev an sv de fu or a ke pc fe ex , th is no no a pr : du to ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) in a ke ex wh ca be ev ev li in an in - di sp .
in so ca , ho , th ar re ma a mo co un of wh ex is th co be pa in in sp an el of fe sp , gi as ex su as ( 12 ) .
th el be fa fr un , th cu pa at to ga so id el th pr , an si pr so al fo si wh th ab co is im .
th ar th pr of de by ke pc , an th pr of sp up sv de fu .
th re of
is or as fo .
se ii di di wa of un th ma fr in sp in fe sp .
fo th , we br re tw fe sp al , sv ma an ke pc ( se ii ) .
th fo of in of th pa , th wa ba fr fe sp to in sp , is de in se iv , an , in th mo ge fo of co sp ap of fe sp ex , in se v .
th al pr in th tw se ar ex ev in se vi an di in se vi .
fr in sp to fe sp
in th se , we sh ho th fe sp in qu ar de by ch of a su ke fu .
in in
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
th st of fe sp ca th be ga by co th re to re ke hi sp , by ho th ca be ap by an em ma , by th ex ge , wh le to us ne ca re , an by th in ge , wh ca be co so in te of th ke . 12
th me ke ma
we st by st th ve of me th gi to be a ni me sp . 12 by
in ( 12 ) .
we as al al we me ex fo se of me ze .
th 12 ( me ) : su
me re - va ke su th
is a sy - th in op
re th , fo ea
, ca it
, su th
th ex a un
to , an
is th fu on
in co , we us pr ) .
in vi of th pr ,
ob by xi th se is th do pr of th rk .
to de th ca ( eu ) do is ca a re
no th by ( 12 ) ,
id ze .
he th se of fu sp th wh rk .
th do pr on th rk th an ca th on ne to be de on be ex to th wh rk by li an co .
fr ( 12 ) , it fo th in pa
be th no ei of
as wi th ei
, so in no
ho fo al al in th la ca , th se co ab an un fo al
fr st 12 , it fo th
co to a do
fo al al
in fa , th un co of th se im th su th ev if th ra ca be ap wi
th ex an
, be im of
as a do pr in
th re ke ma
we ca al th of th fe sp as a re ke hi sp ( rk ) .
to se th ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , re th a rk is a hi sp of fu su th al ev fu , i . e . , th ma , ar co .
in th ca , by th ri
12 th re wh ar ch in in ap an al
mi wa to co sk ov th pr se .
12 a ni me sp is a se x wi a - al de on it , an a me de on th la , sa ( x ) < 12 ( i . e . , up to a sc fa , is a pr me ) .
a - al on x is a fa of su of x ; wh is cl un el se - th op ( co un , in , an co ) , an wh co x as a me .
a me is a fu : ! + wh is - ad , i . e . , th me of a se wh is th di un of so ot se eq th su of th
12 i . e . , a fu of tw va wh gi ri to an in op .
( th im th
th me th an re ke pr in an sp .
is sy ) .
no th co to a do
le us no co a me ke , i . e . , on wh sa th co of th 12 , an co a do pr su co th fu
be a re ke fo th hi sp
by li , we ha
is a me ke , th
ch to be or wi re to th do pr in he it is st to co a do pr
( us th kr sy to th re ke pr ( 12 ) ( us ( 12 ) ) .
, in wh ca ( 12 ) re
th , ( 12 ) pr us wi a fe ma
pr 12 : fo an me ke
th ex a
su th fo
th em ke ma
wh gi an in al th vi , do no ap al th us at rs si .
in pr , it wo se po to rs ma th in in fu , i . e . , in in - di ob .
ho , fo fr ( 12 ) by a gi da , it is po to ap on ev it on th po ( cf . , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) .
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
de 12 : fo gi pa
, we ca
th em ke ma wi re to .
th ca wh
ex : co rs
is a me i . e . , we ev on th tr pa .
if we ca ou a li al in fe sp , th ev wi ta pl in th li sp of th ma tr pa .
th , we ca re th in .
ho , th do pr to us in th re - , si th ta is no si th ca do pr in wi us no fo an or sy .
to tu in a fe ma as wi , we ne to en wi a do pr
of ( 12 ) as
to th en , we us th an po ma . 12 en ( 12 ) on th tr pa , th yi th se - co co ( cf . , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) )
he , we ha us
to de th
ke gr ma
th co ( 12 ) ca be sa fo in by th ps -
eq , we co ha in th re op , wh co to a ke pc wh ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , di in th ma , by mo ( 12 ) to
th si am to di th ei ba ve pa th re of th ei of th in op be to th ke , gi by ( 12 ) .
ar th ei of
fo da se wh th nu of ex is sm th th di , it ca ac be co ex ra th us ke at to ca ou in wh su al ( sv , or ke pc , sa ) on wa to us .
as an as , no th in th ca of ke pc ( to be de in se ii ) , on do no ev ne to wo ab th wh st : us th ca do pr in wh yi th sa le to di ei wi sq ei .
th wa po ou by ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) .
we en th se wi tw no wh il wh th us of ( 12 ) ne no be re to th sp ca we ju
mo ge ke .
wh us no ke in ( 12 ) , to wi th ca do pr , on 12 no th ev do pr ca be wr in th fo .
mo , we do no re de of a , as th nu sp ca be pr ou , le to a lo - di fe sp .
12 it is un th if k is si , we us th ps of k 12 :
wi ef wo wi a ma
, wi ge no th ea po se ma ca be
if we wa to ca ou th wh st , it wo ( cf . , fo 12 co
ha to be us
di ev se .
mi ( 12 ) ha pe ex -
im to sp up ke pc by ch as a pr su of
no th we ha de th ke ma in so de , in va on it , we sh ne lo at it pr .
sp , we st it ef on th ca of ke me ( se ii - d ) an th in ge in fe sp ( se ii - e ) .
th ca of th ke ma
va ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) gi a bo on th ca , me by th vc - di , of op ma cl .
it ta
is an up bo co th le of th we ve of th hy in ca fo , an ra of th sm sp co th da in th sp wh th hy is co .
th sm th sp is , th sm is al th ca , wi be ef on th ge er bo .
if th da is di in a re is wa , wh is of th ca in in sp , th ( 12 ) ca be fa pr . 12 if , ho , th di of th da is su th it do no ll th sp , th ( 12 ) is wa .
th ar in th re of th se , wh is su fr ( 12 ) , sh th us a ke ty en th th da in fa li in so bo wi ra de si , wh ca be mu sm th th ab sp .
fr st 12 of th 12 , th ex so co
de on th ke
an al al
pa in wi si le
is es co in an ax pa
to se ho th ef re th cl of fu we is do in te ar us , we rs no th ev in of do pr .
th , we ca co an in by th co li tr of th da in in ad tr on th se of ad we , we ha
, i . e . , fo an in op
he , we ma co a di sc op wh in th si of th ab pa as mu as po , wh en th it st li in a sp of th fa on th ri ha si of ( 12 ) , bu it bu us so
th wi no ch th
12 in te of en nu , th is du to th ti of th ra gi
by a fa th of ma ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
si ev is do in te of do pr , sc up th da by a ca be co by sc th we ve wi a1 : by ch a su th th da is st co in a ba of th sa ra r; we ef re ou fu cl ( pa by th we ve ) , wh le to be ge bo wh de on th ke in th ma :
re th se fa : on ca sh th th fu cl es be as if it wa ni - di , wi a cu - of de by th ra of de of th re th le to th im bo is so - wh in an ca pr be ex in fu de .
in a nu , th id is to co th ca ( me in te of co nu of th sv fu cl , ev on an - sa ) vi th en nu of a su li , co rs th op
fo ou pu , th en nu of ar cr .
th ca be co a sp of ra as th en nu of th op fa pr of en nu , th ca be up bo ta in ac th ab sc op in a ra pr wa .
th fa th ei of th as wi a gi ke de , th sm th en nu ( an he th ca ) of th co fe sp al fu cl , an th st th ge er bo th on ca pr .
as an ex , we no co ho th en nu de as on th ei of
is a me ke wi
an ex of su a ke ( fo
is th ga
th pr al th fo of a pr ge - al er bo de on th ei of th ke .
us si en nu me , po to gi ra pr da - de bo in te of th ei of th ke gr ma ( 12 ) .
12 co tw no sp e an f : fo n 12 , th nt en nu of a se m e is de as n ( m ) : = in f > 12 : th ex an - co fo m in e co n or fe po : ( re th th co nu n ( ; m ) , be es it fu in , me ho ma ba of ra on ne to co m : ) th en nu n ( t ) of an op t : e ! f ar de as th en nu of th im of th un ba un t : no th 12 ( t ) = jj jj in , th hi en nu al a ne ch of th co of th im of t ( e . g . , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) .
no th en nu ha so ni pr th co nu ar la .
fo in , sc a su of a no ve sp by so fa si sc it en nu by th sa fa .
en nu ar a pr to fo st th ca of fe sp me .
th is du to th fa th in th li ca , wh is wh we ar in in fo fe sp al , th ca be st us po me of fu an ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
th me of th ke ma
an wa to ga in in th st of fe sp is to co th in sh of th ma to wh on da is ma .
it is im he to di an th su in th sp to be th fe sp ac ma , wh we wi wh po in in sp su sm th st su as a ri me ca be de on it .
he we wi fo th an of ( 12 ) , to wh th re is re fo mo de , al th ap to th cl of in po ke
fo si , we as he th
wi be an
we rs no th al in ge pr of
ca be de on we kn th ri me in th ri me ca be by th em of de by a sy me te do no ne to kn th ex ma it ca be wr so in te of th ke .
to se th co th li el
to in sp
co to th ve sp , we ha
re a sm bu ni
th we ca re of th co of th me te
fo th cl of ke wh ar fu on of do pr - uc be po in bo co an co
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
co of th me ta a si fo
wh th pr de de wi re to th ar - to il , le us co th in ge - co to th cl of ri pr of th su in po me ke
is a co .
pr re to th in cu of a su ar co ca by th ri
wh th ch sy of th se ki ar de
th we nd th fo th cl of ke , th ri cu -
va , fo ar in sp di
, is gi by
on ca ex th th de on th su wi be il be fo da wh no is sm , fo ho po ke , bu no fo th in ca .
si pr ma ar in th pa re ca if on da li ne th si .
th co ca be ex to co th in vo el on on , an to gi so si ne te th mu be sa by an ke if it is to be a me ke : th re is re to ( 12 ) fo de .
, wh ma be us to co th de
fe sp al
we ne de th tw al us in th pa : sv ma , an ke pc .
th sv al sh no be de in de , le us on br x th no .
sv cl ( 12 ) co a ma ma hy in in sp , th co to a no de
bo of th fo
ar th tr ex .
th wi
, wh ar ca sv in ma ap , mo of th fo by so a qu pr , tu ou to be ze .
ex cl ac in bo oc an ob re ha be ob us sv ma ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
a ge to th ca of re es , le to si fu ex , ex ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
ke pr co an ( 12 ) ca ou a th ex fe ta
li pc in th fe sp th no fo
it is in to co th re wi th fo th
wh , up to a no , th th ei of th ma
ar th co of
th ca be un as fo .
we wi to nd ei -
of th co ma
th fe sp , 12 wh
th an sh th ad th co
ke re in st di in th ge .
bo cu va fo
, as ex .
ho fo
va fo al po wh
do no va fo an fu , al su fo ho ke wi no cu ( i . e . , th no of th co su fo in ke
ha a si at
th be pr in in th ge st ge by ch of ke , th ge - of th su in ri an al gi mo co re .
fo ex , 12 no th if c < 12 th ke is no a me ke an th ab an
do no ap .
is ve hi di th wi be in th ca wh im to co di .
to be st ab to so th pr , on us me ke .
to th en , we ne to in do pr .
we de a fo wh on us th re an oc of wa we av de wi th ma da ex , wh ma be in in te of me an co co .
to nd a fo fo pc wh us on do pr - uc , we rs su th co ma ( 12 ) in th no th al so to th
12 he we as th th ma da is ce , to .
in ge th wi no be tr , bu al co ca ea be re to pe an ex ce in f ( 12 ) .
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
tr da .
th , we ma co th eq sy
mu li in th sp of
- im of th
an ex th so
su ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) in ( 12 ) , an de a
we ar at a pr wh is ca
in te of do pr : so
no th so
( fo de on th la st se ( 12 ) ) .
to ex fe , we co th pr of th
on th th ei in th fe
im of a te po
us , th wi be mu ch th ta th do pr in th fe sp ex .
to co th br su of ke pc , we st a ch wh in th sa re ( th le of th we ve ) as th on us in sv ma .
, th th ke pc fe ex - , is op am al fe ex of
pr 12 : fo al
to , sc by
th pr pr .
no ea po in th sp of th ma in da is ne th im of so in pa .
th , no ea po th ca be wr as an ex in te of ma in pa ( e . g . , a ke pc ei , or a sv hy no ve ) , ca ne be ex as th im of a si in pa .
fr fe sp to in sp
un se ii , wh de ho to ge fr in sp in fe sp , we no st th wa ba .
th ha be a fa am of wo on as of th pr in th co of de so - ca re se me ( e . g . , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) .
fo pe re , we sh po re se me to se v , as th fo on a pr th is al mo co th th on we wo li to st wi .
th pr pr
as st in th in , fe sp al ex th so as ex in te of ma in in th fe sp po ( 12 ) .
ho , si th ma is no , we ca ge as th ea su
ex wi ha a pr un be ea to co , as sh by th fo re ( 12 ) .
if th pr ex , it wo
, i . e . , a po
pr 12 : co a fe sp ex
if th ex a
in th se th it ha th sh we ve
is an in fu
, th we ca
su to th co th
12 ) it is or to th rs ex ( in fe sp )
12 ) ap to th tr se
va se of ou .
ke pc fe
it le to a un
bo sv ma an ke pc ut me ke to ge a li al to a no se mo , bo us th sa re , al in di do of le ve un .
ne , fe - tu ex ex on ha di im us ke pc ha sh th a li hy cl tr on th ex fe ca pe as we as a no sv ma tr di on th in ( 12 ) .
is an or ba of in sp .
pr : we ex
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
se re on th pr sh be gi .
fi ,
ex of ke wh ar in fu of ar po ke
pr .
as we sh se in ex , ho , ev be pr ca be fo , wh ma so in ap po ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) :
an si ke
a si re ho fo rb ke ( us th po id ) al we ne is a ke wh al th re - fr , ev on so in po wh we ar al to ch ( fo de , cf . , ( 12 ) ) .
th cr as , cl ,
is th ex of th pr .
un , th ar ma si wh th ar no pr .
to il th , we co th fe ( 12 ) .
cl , on po in fe sp wh ca do ha a pr un th ma .
to be wr as ch th se of po in a sp ex , co
, ma it in
de : gi a no hi co to ob da se is ca in th rs co ma pi up th no th se , th of as a de ve of
, an th co a he , th ho is th th ma st in th di , an th re
co : gi th ei
an a sm nu - , co a th is us
( cf . , ( 12 ) ) of
be of fe pr as an ap re of
is sm th th di of th in da .
in : vi a no fe ex
, bu no
by co a pr .
in th pa , we fo on th rs po .
in th ne se , we sh de a me fo mi ( 12 ) , wh we wi la , in th ex se , ap to th ca wh
an al fo ap pr
ma ea in in a ga si on in th ca , th po .
ho , it is kn ( 12 ) th no ga ca be wr as a li co of ga ce at ot po .
th , in th ga ca , no of th ex ( 12 ) , ex tr ca wi on on te , ha an ex
th pr th we ha in se ou to so ha tu ou to be in in th ge ca .
le us tr to as fo le .
ra th tr to nd ex pr , we no co ap on .
we ca
ar th ve
fo wh go ap pr ex ? as de in se ii , ke pc is no bu pc in
th pr se ( 12 ) gi an an fo th ca of th ga ke , wh ha pr to pe ve we in ap ( 12 ) , an pr an it pr fo co pr of ke ex .
we st by co a pr sl mo ge th th pr pr : we ar se to ap fi ob th ra
we ca mi th di be
an th or
to th en , we ma
wi th fo op ap pr ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
ar so ac to no - he , we as th th be th sm no
is th - di pr mi -
im pr : tr , al
ca be ex to ha a go ap - is a go ap
12 ju ho sm it ne to be in or to fo a sa ap wi de on th pr at ha .
th , we ha re fr gi a fo de .
is pr to th on of ( 12 ) ov
wh ca be ex in te of th ke .
th ma - ti of ( 12 ) ov , si it co a lo - di pr , an si ha di sc be .
on th ma of ( 12 ) is fo , it is ex to th mi of ( 12 ) by se ( cf .
( 12 ) ) ( 12 ) ca ei be mi us st te ( as in ( 12 ) ) , or , fo pa ch of ke , us xe - po it me , as sh pr .
fo ke wh sa
ga ke ) , ( 12 ) re to
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
th di be tw de ( mo no
to se th , we de th se
an th sh
gi a ve 12 f , we tr to ap it by a mu of a ve ( zz ) in th im of in sp ( n ) un th no ma by nd zz su th th pr di of on sp ( ( zz ) ) is
i . e . , we ar tr to nd a wh th di be th ( un ) pr fo th tw cl is ma , an es th ap to ( 12 ) by a ga ce at mo , no th we ca re ( 12 ) as
fo th ex , we ha
, we su ( 12 ) to ge
th su co
to ev th gr
in te of
, we ob
, le to
fo th ga ke we th ar at
re se ( rs ) me
th pr
we no mo on to a sl mo ge pr , rs st by ( 12 ) , wh we ar no lo on lo fo si pr , bu ex .
it wi tu ou th on ca al us th me de in th la se to de an al fo th mo ge ca .
as we ar gi a ve
, ex in im
of in pa
an de an it
ra th lo fo a si pr , we no tr to ap it by a re se
an th is no in a th de eq ne of th ex of ( 12 ) , un th ex it is ze .
th la on oc if th pr of is ze , in wh ca it is po th li sp of nu in re to to tr to ap be sm ca th be ap by re
th it wi di st va .
in , ( 12 ) ca be in in th co of cl ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
it de th ce of a si ga cl , tr to ca as ma of th as po , an si av th th si of th eq th la of th pa is th si wh di ( 12 ) fr pl cl or pa de es .
th oc of ne si is re to th fa th we ar no tr to es a pa de bu
fo sv cl ,
to th en , on ca
th cr po is th ev if ca be co ( an mi ) in te of th ke .
is no gi ex , ( 12 )
in th ni be of 12 12 ha di , sv ma ar mo ac th an ot si cl ( 12 ) ; ho , th ar in to ne ne in ru - ti cl sp ( 12 ) .
in ap wh th la is an
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
is , it is th de to co up wi me to sp up th by ma th sv ex mo sp , i . e . , re ( 12 ) by ( 12 ) .
fi th co
ev , th rs pr co of tw pa .
on ha , an on ha to co th to de th rs ve ex co we st wi th la pa , as it is ea , pa , as it is co to di rs me .
pr 12 : th op co
in th 12 - no ar
th gr ma ca ei be co on fr th ex wh ha a no , or fr a la se wh we wa to us fo th ex . ) in , it wi tu ou th th pr is cl re to ke pc .
le us st wi th si ca .
as th ex an
us ( 12 ) , th re
wi ei 12 , i . e . ,
no th if th
ar li in , as th sh be if we wa to us th fo ap , th ha fu ra .
ot , on ca us th ps , or se th so wh ha th la nu of ze
pr : se ( 12 ) .
we ev th de of th di -
an se it to ze .
su
, we ob
no rs al us th 12 - no op cr ca ci th re .
fo in , su we ar gi an al th co th an co up wi a so .
th we ca al us th pr to re th op co to ge a so wh is at le as go as th or on .
di al ca , ho , di in th wa th de in th rs pl .
th on de wi in th , wh th on in ne se si se su of th se v - d us ve di fr th or
re se se
12 ) se vi ke pc : th id fo th rs al - th nu sp of ri ar fr th ob th pr te us th gr ma ho ma ve ca be re fr an ex wh co ze ap er ( as we co ad th co ) , i . e . , ho sp we ca ma an sv ex , sa , wi ch it th le ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
( he ,
ar li de , an th - th me th th fo an of th be ex in te of th ot .
he , we ma us th ei wi ei ze to el ce te fr an ex in th
wh co wi a no
wh ha if we do no ha no ei , su as in th ca of ga ke ( 12 ) ? in , we wo st be th ev th th ab is no lo pr tr , it sh gi a go ap .
ho , th cr di is th in or to ge th be po ap , we no ne to ta in ac th co of th ex , sa , th th er wi co an er by re
ho do we th se th op
cl , we wo li to nd co mi th
er we co by re
to es a co to ke pc , we ma a ch of va .
fi , de he ( 12 ) eq
pr of mi
, th le to th
a st ca sh th we ca re th , i . e . , th va to ap co fo ad to th
is in wh re
fo le ou
ra th mi th no fu ( 12 ) , we no de a co at ap so .
it is al is mi mo by th ob th fo th ei wi mi ei , co wi th sp ca di ab ( cf . , ( 12 ) ) .
in th ca ,
12 th id of ap th su ve ex by op re in su ve , an th ad th co of th th re to mi th re er , wa ar at in by ol ch , wh al de th ex to be mi , ( 12 )
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
, wi ei
mo ge , if
is an no
to di of th mo , we re
th qu pr pr
in te of th ne va , we en up wi
th ca be mi in ke pc an sc th th ma co ca be re to we ca el
op by pe by on co th ch a pr .
he , ch in a pr ye
se al co co as , th op gr so to th ab se pr , eq to ( 12 ) , ca al be ob by us pr 12 : co th op so fo al po pa th on co le ou ( i . e . , us su of
an ev ( 12 ) in ea ca .
th sa ap to su of an si .
if we ha th
re to ex sc th al su of si
, th pr 12 pr th op wa of se th be ex of a gi si .
be ex ca on be ob if we dr th re th th ap is wr in te of th or pa , as do in se v - d .
no ma ho we en up ch , we ap
th pr ca be so wi st qu pr - gr to .
th so ( 12 ) co be us di as ex co .
fo op pr , ho , we me us it to se wh pa to us fo th ex ( th wi no co ) , an re th op co us pr 12
12 ) th mu ca : in ma ap , we fa th pr of si ap a se of sp ex .
fo in , in di cl , a co - bi re , on fo mo ap is to tr ea di .
to th en , th qu pr fo of se v - c . 12 ca be mo to
th wh sc ca be it un th ex of
is su sp .
if on wa to av ha to nd th at ea st an , th ap sm ei of sc us he ca be co .
in ou ex to be re be , we di co al ei at ea st , us th gr ma co fr th sv an th se
ac to ( 12 ) .
12 ) se vi
me fo en sp wh is in by sh pe ( cf . , ( 12 ) ) .
gi so ex
, we ap it by
is a co de th tr be sp an qu of ap .
th co - ca be se to on or is th me of sa .
in th la ca , we ar ho fo a sp de , si mo em is pu on sh te wh ar al sm .
th re th in th it is le pr to tr to sh ve la te .
id , we wo li to co th nu of no co , ra th su th mo ho , th fo do no le to an ef so op pr .
th in an ar un to ra ov al sv ( i . e . , ex ve wh ha a no co fo at le on of th re ) , an ov th , we us ei on or , wi th sa ra as ab ,
is th me of al
to wi th co ( 12 ) en th we on pe th la of th co pe to ea in sv .
th , as so as on co is be us by on th ex , it do no co an to al us it fo an on .
th is pr wh we wa fo sp - up pu : if we ha to co a ce do pr an , we mi ju as we re it fo th ot
, we ar at th
ra ov al sv .
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
12 ) a no on th ut of re se se : wh sh we ex th pr to be us ? fi , fo sv fo so po va of th , th is re to be th th sv ex ca be ma sp by re th co ( no th ( 12 ) do no ca ab th co ) . 12 se , th nu of ei wh ar ze ( an th th nu of pa th ca be re wi lo ) , or at le sm , de on th pr at ha an th ke us .
fo in , ga ke gr ma do no ha ze ei un so of th pa ar du ( 12 ) .
ne , go ap ar po , si th ei of ga ke de ra ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
re se co
so fa , we ha de wi th pr of ho to se a re se of ex ve fr th or on .
we no re to th or po pr , wh in th co of ne ve to re hi re ra .
to th en , su we wa to ap a ve
by an ex of th ty ( 12 ) wi we it th pr of se iv - b by , ob by ne to be ut in it
it ( 12 ) .
to ap ( 12 ) , re in te of ma in im
to th en ,
i . e . , we ne to se
co be co as
if th ve
, th th be ap of
sp is no ob by co or pr on ea di .
in , we ne to co th op an in ea st , us ha no ye re pr 12 ( if th di wi be in ) .
th it is st af
st , ei sp
in ad , or by mo wh
fa be a sp th .
th so
ve ta th fo ( 12 ) .
we co th se by no th in ma ca , su as mu sv ma , or mu ke pc fe ex , we ma ac wa to ap se ve si .
th le to mo co eq , gi in ( 12 ) .
12 im a ca wh a ce pa ap tw in th tr se , an th sv ex ha to ut bo of th co on be th up bo co li th co of ea of th to c :
ke pc to ex ( se te ) : li of co fe va fo th rs ei no pr co ex wi k ( xx yy ) = ex ( jj yy : 12 ) : th rs tw pr co ( to mi / ri ) se th th cl .
co 12 sp th cl .
co 12 sp th ag , or to th ab sp .
to se ho th pr me wo in pr we ra se to an re - wo ex .
in se vi - a , we gi de re fo th ap of nd ap - ma pr pr in se iv - a .
in se vi - b , we pr so ex fo th re se me de in se v - c an v - d .
ke pc de
12 ) to ex : al ex re we ca ou wi ga ke ( 12 ) , mi ( 12 ) wi th it sc gi by ( 12 ) .
ho , si re we ob wi po ke .
ma co fo co ke pc is av on th we fr
we ge an ar da se fr th po so at ( 12 , 12 ) , ( 12 , 12 ) , ( 12 , 12 ) ( 12 po ea ) wi ) , an pe ke pc on ga no ( it ( fi .
us th re ei , we ex no pr co fr a se of te po ge fr th sa mo , an re th po fr va nu of pr co .
12 sh th di hi or co le to re of th no po mo to th re so .
in a se ex ( ta i ) , we ge a da se
wi ze me an va
fr 12 ga in in ea co , by se fr ea so 12 po as a tr se an 12 po fo a te se ( ce of th ga ra ch in ( 12 , 12 ) th we ap ke pc to th tr se an co th pr of th po in th te se .
wi th , we ca ou de , yi an ap pr in te po .
th pr wa re fo di nu of co in re , an fo di va of ( al us in th ke ) .
we co th re pr by ou al to th of li pc vi th me sq di of al de te po to th co ce .
ta i sh th ra of th va he an be , ra la th on in th ke pc pe be th li pc .
fo al ev ch of
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
de ga in 12 ( se te ) .
pe ra la th on in ho mu be ke pc di , co to li pc , fo di ch of th ga st de ;
an di nu of co us in re
ke pc de by re fr pr on th ei of fi .
we ge 12 ne po fr ea ga , re th in fe sp by th rs n = 12 12 ; 12 no pr co , an co ap pr , sh in th up ni pi ( to le : or da , to mi : n = 12 , to ri : n = 12 , et . ) .
no th by di hi or pr co ( i . e . , us a sm n ) , we re th no in in th no va th ga .
th lo ni pi sh ho th or po mo in th de .
un th co ca in li pc , wh we ob li ( se fi .
12 ) , in ke pc cl sh to po .
re an po mo fo li pc , ba on th rs pr co .
, ke pc di be .
no th us al te co , li pc is ju a ba tr an he ca de .
th ex su of ke pc fo sm is du to th fa th al te po ar in th ca lo cl to th 12 sp in in sp , an li pc ha to co th wi le th 12 di .
ke pc mo ea po to th co so ev wh us on a sm nu of co .
to ge so in un in a lo - di ca , fi .
12 de th re of de a ha ci an a sq in th pl , us ke pc , a no au , pr cu , an li pc .
th pr cu al ( 12 ) it es a cu ca - in th st of th da .
th da ar pr to th cl po on a cu wh th al tr to co su th ea po is th av of al da po pr on it .
it ca be sh th
de in 12 - d ( se te ) .
de ar th da se ( sm po ) an it de ve ( bi po , jo up to so li ) .
fo li pc , we us on co fo re , as us tw co , re is pe an th do no de .
no th al al ex fo ou ap ha pr in ca th ci st in th bo ex ( ta fr ( 12 ) ) .
st li sa th la ar pr co , so pr cu ar a ge of th la .
th al us a sm pa wh is an du th it .
in th no au al , a bo ve - la ne is tr to re th in va as ou ( i . e . , it is us in au mo ) .
th hi un ac in th th la fo a lo - di re of th da , cl re to pc ( se , fo in , ( 12 ) ) .
tr is do by co gr de .
in al al , pa va we se su th th be po de re wa ob .
th gu sh th on th cl sq pr , ke pc do ( su ) be , fo by pr cu an th no au li pc fa co .
ho , no th al al ex fo ke pc ac pr an ex on - di pa of th da , wh ke pc on pr us wi a me of ma po to th de ve ( in th ca , we us fo ke pc fe , an he ob a
12 ) ha di de : to te ou ap on re - wo da , we al ap th al to th us da of ha di ( e . g . , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) of 12 tr 12 ) .
fo ea of th pa an 12 te pa ( si 12 te di , we ra ch 12 ex fr th tr se an 12 ex fr th te se .
we us th me of se iv - b , wi th wi 12 eq tw th av of th da va
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
vi of ei ( se te ) .
de ar th 12 ro : di vi fo ke pc .
12 ei ( fr le to ri ) .
fi ro : li pc , se an th
in ea di .
in fi .
12 , we gi tw po de of th ei fo by ke pc , co to th fo by li pc fo th us se .
th se ro sh th ap pr of th ei
) , lo ri
, fo by ou it al .
in th th ro is th pr ea im is co as fo : pi - im of th th ca ba ve in in sp on th co ei in fe sp ( up le ) .
in th li ca , bo me wo si yi th ei of li pc de in th rs ro in th se , th ma be co as ge ei in in sp .
we se th th rs ei ar al id ( ex fo ar si ) .
ho , we al se th ei in li pc st to fo on hi - fr st al at sm ei si .
to un th , no th in li pc we on ha a ma nu of 12 ei , co to ke pc wh gi us th nu of tr ex ( he 12 ) po ei .
th al ex so of th re we fo wh wo - in wi th us se ( fi .
12 an 12 ) .
in th ex , li an ke pc we tr wi th or da .
to th te se , we ad
12 ) ad ga no wi ze me an st
12 ) sp no , wh ea pi is ip to bl or
wh wi pr
fo th no te se , we co th pr on li an no co , an ca ou re fo ea ca .
th re we co by ta th me sq di of ea re di of th no te se to it or co .
fo th op nu of co in li an ke pc , ou ap di be by a fa of 12 fo th ga no , an 12 fo th sp no ( th op nu of co we 12 in li pc , an 12 an 12 in ke pc , re ) .
ta id nu of co in bo al , ke pc be up to ei ti be th li pc .
ho , no th ke pc co wi a hi co co .
sp up su ve de ru
as in se vi - a , we us th us ha di da .
we ap th sv ex ( 12 ) of te bi cl , ea tr to se on di fr th
de of us da ( se te ) .
th le ha sh : to : th rs oc of ea di in th te se , se ro : th up di wi ad ga no ( = 12 : 12 ) , fo ve ro : th re fo li pc us n = 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 co , an , la ve ro : th re of ou ap us th sa nu of co .
in th ri ha we sh th sa bu fo sp no wi pr p = 12 : 12 :
we us th ga ke
, an th ap te de
in se v - c an v - d .
th or sv sy ha on av 12 sv pe cl - si .
ta ii an ii sh th cl er re fo ap us th re se se te de - sc in se v - c , wh ta iv gi re fo us th re se co me de in se v - d , fo va nu of rs ve .
sh in ea li is th nu of mi di fo ea si cl an th er of th co 12 - cl ma .
in al rs sy , th op sv th wa re on th tr se .
fo th me of se v - c , rs - me , th fo ea bi cl , we re su ve un on av we le fo th me of se se v - d , th we ap ea de fu us st us th de it pr ) .
fo la , i . e . , sm re of th de fu co , th ac of th or sy ca be ap -
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
me sq er of de im ve nu of fe us , fo ke pc an li pc .
ke pc ex no an ha th po to ut mo fe to co st ra th no .
th , it ou li pc de if a su la nu of fe is us .
nu of te er fo ea bi re , an te er
ra fo 12 - cl cl us th rs me of se
se v - c . 12
to : nu of sv fo th or sv rb - sy .
bo , fi ro : or sv sy , wi 12 sv on av
fo ro : sy wi va av nu of rs
ve .
in th sy rs - n , eq fr of sv we re fr ea re su th on av , n rs ve we le
nu of te er fo ea bi re , an te er ra fo te - cl cl us th rs me of se v - c . 12 ( ci = =j ij ) : fi ro : or sv sy , wi 12 sv on av fo ro : sy wi va av nu of
rs ve .
in th sy rs - n , wa ad su th th av nu of rs ve le wa n ( th co , gi
in pa , wa ch su th th nu n we
co to ta ii ) .
th re ca be fu im us th me of se v - c1 ( ci = = ma j j i j ) : fo
in , us ab 12 ex ve ( wh is th sa nu th we ge wh ta th un of al sv in th rs 12 sy ) , th le to an im er ra of 12
pr cl wi bo te .
in ta ii an ii , we se th re of ab 12 of th su ve le th er pr un .
re th nu of su ve fu ca le to la pe lo .
th re se co me , wh is co - ti an co mo co , pe be in th si as it is ab to ut ve di fr th or su pa in th ex .
to ge a sp by a fa of te , we ha to us a sy wi 12 rs ve ( rs - 12 ) .
fo th me in ta iv , ac on dr mo fr 12 to 12 , wh
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
co di of re se ve co by th it ap of se v - d fo n = 12 , wi co ( to : re of di 12 , , bo : di 12 ) .
no th po co ( ro ) co to po ex in th cl pr .
nu of te er fo ea bi re , an te er
ra fo te - cl cl us th rs co me of se v - d .
fi ro : or sv sy , wi 12 sv on av ( se al ta ii an ii ) ; fo ro : sy wi va nu of rs ve ( rs - n st fo n ve co ) pe bi re ,
co by it on - te ap , se fo
ea re .
la tw ro : wi a su gl
gr de , th re ca be fu im ( se te )
th rs ph by ab tw or of ma ) : th le to an er ra of 12 .
fo th co ke , th is al id to th tr rs me , wh yi 12 ( fo po ke , th la me le to 12 at th sa sp ( 12 ) ) .
no th th tr rs me re th se ph ma ti to ma su th th gl mi of th co fu is ac fo , wh ma it pl th th na re ar si .
fi , fi .
12 sh th rs - 12 ve of th te bi cl .
as an as , no th un th ap of ( 12 ) , ou al pr im wh do lo me ( i . e . ,
al ut me ke co th so in te of ma in is of un , or to co to pr an in ab th so ha mo ou ef to re th co of th ex , su in th pa .
as an ex ca , we ha rs st ho to ap - ( i . e . , ho to nd an ap ) , an pr a xe - po it al
by a si
to pe th ta .
is st co wi co ne ne on th da ba ( 12 ) .
mo , we ca fu im th re by ad th se ph of th tr rs al , wh a gl gr de is pe in th sp ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ( co mo ex th
in si wh no go ap pr ex , on ca st re th co of ex it as a sp ex ha pr me fo co th op co or by it th ab pr
an fo co up wi su pa
se am th
sc ol et al . : in sp ve fe sp
bo ty of ap ar of th in fo fe sp me ho , th al le to pr ap .
in th pa , we ha co tw su ap , na , th pr of st de vi ke pc re , an th pr of sp up sv de ru .
we ad th in tu .
ke pc de : in de ex on re - wo da , we ob re si be th us li pc .
ou in of th nd is as fo .
li pc ca ex at mo th di of th da .
be a ba tr , al co to fu de th da .
if th da ar no , th im th a ce fr of th co wi be de to th ex of no .
ke pc , on th ot ha , al th ex of up to fe , wh th nu of tr ex .
ac , ke pc ca pr a la nu of fe ca in ab th st in th da ( in ou ex , we ha in ad , if th st to be ex is no , th li pc mu ne fa , as we ha il wi
op qu an pr in th ch of a su ke fo a gi no re pr , po in co wi th re pr of th ke ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) , th ap of th ap to co , an th co ( an co ) to al no de me ( cf . , ( 12 ) ) .
sp up sv ma : we ha sh ex th ou ap al ca be us to sp up sv ma si .
no th in th ga rb ca , th ap ca ne be as go as th or , si th ke ma
ha fu ra ( 12 ) .
as in ( 12 ) , go rs co re we ob ev th th ob fu di no de to ze ( in ou rs co ex , it wa re by a fa of tw in th rs ph , de on ho ma rs ve we co th gl gr de yi an fa tw ) .
we co th th is du to th fo : in cl , we ar no in in
is th un pr di of th pa ( cf . , ( 12 ) ) .
th is co wi th fa th th pe of a rs sv cl ca be im by re an op th
th pr rs co me ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ca be us
fo an sv ke th ne on is li to
ho , it is fa , an it le to in rs im an an in co be cl an ap - im in fe sp .
it ap in to pu th qu wh th co co be ex to fo mo ge ty of ap of sv an ke pc ex by ma us of ga of va wi .
th rs se me , on th ot ha , ar ap - ca fo an sv ke .
in ou ex , th le to wo re ra th rs co ho , th ar si an co fa .
am th rs tw rs se me , th on de in se v - c . 12 wa sl su at hi re ho , th on
gi in se v - c . 12 is co ch si un th fo , it do no re th sv on at a ti an th it ne no be it .
mo , we fo th it ca be im by si ap se ve , co to th te bi re in a di
th pr me ar ap to an fe sp al ba on me ke .
fo in , we co al sp up sv re ma or ke pc fe ex .
mo , we ex fu po to op up in th fu , as me ke me ar be ap in an in nu of le an si pr pr .
th au wo li to th a .
el fo he
