ab a br co in ( bc ) sy on ca ch fr a va of fe th ma be us fo cl br ac du a me ta .
fo th sp ca of cl el ( ee ) si we pr th us of th st of th ar fe se al re fe el ( 12 ) an ze - no op ( 12 ) wh ar ba on th tr of su ve ma ( sv ) ( 12 ) .
th al ca pr mo ac so th st - da fi me fo fe se ( 12 ) .
we ad th me fo th pu of se ee ch - ne .
fo a mo im pa we sh th th nu of us ch ca be re si wi in th cl er .
th re be ch ag we wi th ex un co ac pa du th me
fu we sh ho ti de ta sp in -
ma ca be vi .
in te co in ( bc ) , ch re - va , ch se , el ( ee ) , fe re , fe se , re fe el ( rf ) , su ve ma ( sv ) , ze no op ( l1 - op ) .
m os br co in ( bc ) ma us of
le to di el - ce ( ee ) si of tw or mo cl .
fo so ta th re re po ar kn , es wh th ta co mo im , e . g . , th im of li mo , or th ov ac of la pa of th co th oc du in or st of pr an
fo th de of ne pa wh ne co - la ar no kn in su de , fi op re po fo us in bc is ch .
ne pa ca be - co ne wh mo co ar sh le , fo th in of th in ra of bc sy or fo ro mu - cl bc .
if go re po ar no kn , a si ap is to us da fr as ma as po ee
ma re ju 12 , 12 re ma 12 , 12
th wo wa su in pa by th de fo ( df ) an in pa by th na in of he ( ni ) .
as in co au .
la is wi ma - pl - in fo bi cy , sp -
ma .
12 , tb 12 , ge ( e - ma : na . mp . de ) .
sc an m .
bo ar wi eb ka un tb , de of co en , tb 12 , ge ( e - ma :
hi an n .
bi ar wi eb ka un tb , in of me ps an be ne , tb 12 , ge ( e - ma :
we an b .
sc ar wi ma - pl - in fo bi cy , tb 12 , ge ( e - ma : ja . we .
di ob id 12 / tb . 12
th po of 12 ee el us fo da ac ar ma in so bl ci .
th tw re el ar ma in
el fo si cl .
th dr of th ap - pr is th th ex to wh fe se an cl - si al ov to no in wi th nu of ta - ir fe , es wh th ra of tr po an nu of fe is sm .
in ad , it is di to un wh pa of th br ge th cl re -
we sh th th se of re po ca be do ro in th ab of pr kn ab th sp di - tr of br ac of a me ta .
sp we ad th st of th ar fe se me ze - no op - mi ( l1 - op ) an re fe el ( rf ) to th pr of ch se an de th us of th me on th we kn pa of mo im .
th pa is st as fo : se ii co th ex se , th ta , an th ba da pr .
in se ii , th fe se me an th cl al ar de .
re ar gi in se iv an th fi se co .
da ac
ex se an me ta
we re ee si fr ei un ri ha ma su us 12 si ch el ( se fi .
th re el we po at tp an tp
12 - 12 / 12 12 ie
ie tr on bi en , vo .
12 , no .
12 , ju 12
tw el fp an 12 cm la of th ri ey ( eo ) we us to re po eo ar an ey bl wh tw fr - te an tw oc el we po to de po mu ac du th ex .
be sa th da at 12 hz an an ba fi wi cu fr 12 hz an 12 hz wa ap .
th su we se in an ar at 12 - m di in fr of a co sc .
fo th ex se of ( 12 ) th su we as to im le ve ri ha mo du ea tr .
wi ev su , we re 12 tr du on si se .
th to le of ea tr wa 12 s .
ad in in fo re va ra be 12 an 12 s .
no ou de wa pe an no tr we re du th da pr at an
ea tr st wi a bl sc .
a sm fi cr wa di in th ce of th sc fr se 12 to 12
a cu in th fo of a sm ar po to th ri or le si wa vi fo ha a se st wi se 12
in or to av ev re si in la pr st , on da fr se 12 to 12 of ea tr wa co fo fu an .
fe wa no pr at an ti .
as pf an da si ha re ( 12 ) th mo - me re de of th - rh ( 12 hz ) is no eq st in su an mi ev fa fo va re ( e . g . , be of to sh in in th pr - ve a pr re - sy ) we pe a pr in or to id an ex su th di no sh si -
- ac at al .
fo se of th ei su th
- ba wa on sl di fr th 12 hz us gi in th ee li .
on on su sh sc an ac in th fr ra bu in a re mo re de - ni in th 12 hz ba .
re to on th 12 ee ch th we lo ov or cl to th mo co we ca th ma en - ba us th we me ( 12 ) fo ea su .
th fe ex re in on pa pe tr an ch an ex in pr kn ab th
th ei da se co of th we - fe we cl - si wi li sv ( se be ) in in mo se fo ea su .
ge er we es by te cr va ( cv ) .
as fo th su th pr - an sh ve po er ra cl to ch le th da se we ex fr fu an .
da pr
fo th re fi su th re 12 s wi of ea tr re in a ti se of 12 sa po pe ch .
we fi an au ( ar ) mo of or 12 to th ti se of al 12 ch us fo ba li
pr ( 12 ) .
th th re co pe ch an tr fo th ne re of th da .
th ex of th fe di no ex in pr kn al ar mo ha su be us fo mo re ta ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
ho , th ar no di li to th
fo al fi da se ) an le
le de th nu of tr ve ( tr ) of th da de th da fo al fi da se ) .
th tr
da fo a cl is de as de im ri ha mo .
th te di an fe ar us sy .
fo by re th
de im le ha mo ,
fo th ta us in
is ob fr a se
di fr ev po
fe se an cl me fe se al ca be ch as ei fi or wr me ( 12 ) .
th se or om di of th da de on a pe me .
th pr of ho to ra th re of a fe if no - li in be fe ar pr is no tr , es - pe si th ov ac mi no be mo in th nu of fe us .
so fe se me tr to ov th pr by op th fe se fo su of fi si ( pl - l ta - aw - r se ) or by im - me fl st ( e . g . , fl fo se ) ( 12 ) .
on fe al li , e . g . , ge al ca ch su of ar si du th fe se pr .
th ha su be us fo th se of sp fe ( 12 ) in bc ap bu ar co de -
fo th ap of ee ch se , it is ne to tr a ce ki of gr fe ho : nu - me va be to on an th sa ee ch ha to be de wi in a co wa so th a sp in - ta of th so be po .
we ad th st of th ar fe se me 12 - op an rf as we as th fi co to im th sp re .
th fi tw al ar cl re to sv .
su ve ma ( sv )
th sv is a re ne cl te de - op by va ( 12 ) wh ha sh to pe st in a nu of re - wo pr , in bc ( 12 ) .
th ce fr tw cl by fi a id is to se da
of a hy
an an of
12 th ch , we co di mo or .
fo a gi or , we fi an ar - mo to ea ee se .
af pr mo se a su - po ve ma ( sv ) wi te cv wa tr on th co .
mo or 12 re in th be me cv er .
wi th la po ma , 12 wh ap fr be an in id ha be sh to pr th gu in
12 x li se th ma of a hy is th di of th hy -
pe to th cl po x 12 x .
la et al . : su ve ch se in bc
fo ex ( 12 ) )
- no as in st sv ( se ,
th so of th op pr is us mu sp th th so of pr ( 12 ) .
th , fe se is do im .
un th pr ha sh to be np - ha bu th au de an it me to ap th so .
in ca th so ha le th th de nu of ze en , th re fe ca be ra ac to
( as in on it st of rf ) .
in th or ve of th me , th fe ar mu - pl wi a sc fa du ea it .
on a sc fa is ze , th co fe is re .
we ad th me in th fo wa : th sc fa of th fe - tu co to a ch ar su by th me .
th , al fe of on ch ar ei re co ( th ch is re ) or al fe re .
as in th ca ha to be es fr th of sv an rf , th pa tr da in ca pr kn is no av .
re fe el ( rf )
th fe se me wa pr by gu et al .
( 12 ) an is ba on th co of ma ma .
th im of a di is de by th in it ha on th ma of a tr sv .
le be th in of th
th co to th sm
at ea it on sv is tr an th fe wh ar re ( ty - ic th is on fe on ) ; th is eq to re .
we ad th me fo ch se in th fo wa : le to th re of th fc an th 12 - op , we de fo .
at ea it - er st we re th ch wi th lo sc .
th ha to be es fr th tr da , if no pr kn is av .
de th fe fr ch
fo th re of th pa we re to th ad fe se me as ch se me .
fu , we wi al re to th ad rf as re ch
li sv .
fo no da se , sl va in .
th th po on th da li ar ca su ve ( sv ) .
th so fo th hy h ca be wr in te of th sv .
fo mo de se se ii - a .
te of ge ab ( 12 ) .
on va of th al co of so th fo op pr :
ar ca sl va an en th th pr ha a so in ca th da is no li se ( se fi .
th ma is de as in pr , on ha to tr - of be a lo tr er , , an a la ma .
th tr - of is co by th re pa pa of th mo se pr .
if no pr kn is ha to be es fr th tr da , e . g . , by us cv .
th va is al re to as th ri .
fo a de di pl re to ( 12 ) .
fi a go va fo
fi cr ( fc )
th fc de ho st a fe is co wi
th la ( 12 ) .
fo a se
is th gi by
an th va
th sc
si .
th ra of a ch is si se to th me sc of th co
ze - no op ( l1 - op )
ge er es
we et al .
( 12 ) re su to mi th
12 th da li se th sl va ca im th ge
ab of th so .
12 ze - no of a ve v is eq to nu of no en of v .
fo mo se pu we es th ge
er of cl vi te cv .
if th ge er of a ch se me ha to be es , a so mo el pr wa us .
an il of th pr is gi in fi
ie tr on bi en , vo .
12 , no .
12 , ju 12
il of th pr fo ch se an er es
us cv .
in ea fo pe ba on th tr se of ra of th 12 ee ch .
fo ea fo
th wh da se is sp up in 12 fo ( f1 to f1 ) as fo , th ch se ( cs in fi .
12 ) is on , le to a sp , 12 cl is tr on th an te on .
fo ea fo ,
be ch , re , of th tr se of
ar tr as fo :
th co ch of th te se of th re in 12 te er (
du th la st , th co te er ar av - ag ov al fo .
th le to an es of th ge - ti er fo ev nu of se ch .
ch se
we ap th th ch se me fc , rf , an 12 - op in in se ii to th fi da se .
as th ex - pe pa is we kn , we co ex th re - su co th ph pl .
th , we in wh th be ra ch ar th si ov or cl to mo ar .
fu we an if th nu of ch ca be re wi a lo of ac in te of cv er .
12 th co , be me ac to th ca ra of th fo .
co of th th ch se me fi sc , rf an l1 - op in fo fi su an av ov th su .
me rf al th st re of nu of ch fo al su .
in to th ch se an in fo ea su - fo la sv tr
wa es vi te cv fr th tr da se . 12
, th re pa
th es of th ge er fo al 12 st of th ch se pr wa ca ou us li sv as cl wi pa de ab th te cv du th es pr ar de in se ii - e an fi
th es re ar de in fi .
th fi fi pl sh th in ge er fo th fi su - je ag th di nu of ch ch by th th ch se me .
th si pl in th bo ri co sh th ge er of th th me av ov th fi su .
12 th pa fo ea nu of ch in th pr of ch se mi im th ac .
ho th ch of ov -
12 fa , me rf an l1 - op pe ra a ch re th a
la et al . : su ve ch se in bc
rf ra of 12 ee
id ge er cu us a ch se me in th pr of ir ch .
wh re ch it th cl er de sl un al ir ch ar re .
re mo ch re in an in of er .
in ex pa th ca be do wi a lo of cl ac .
fo ex , us 12 ch yi th sa er as th er ob us th cv er of 12 al ch .
on th da se of su ca be re to 12 us 12 ch on .
it is no tr to te al
po co of ch to fi th be co .
in th li , th 12 ch - ne lo ov or cl to th mo co ca be co a ve go so th is cl to th op on .
fo ra th ov ac of th rf me we , th , tr a cl - si us th 12 ch .
th re av ov th fi su is pl as a ba in th la fi .
th av er ra ( ta ov al su ) of 12 us 12 ch is ve cl to th er of th ba wh is 12 .
ta i co ch ra , wh ar ob by ap - pl re ch el to th da se of ea su . 12 as th rf me ha ou cf an l1 - op , th ra in ta i we ex ca by rf .
to in th ta it is us to ha a cl lo at fi .
it sh an id cu fo an es of th ge er wh us a ch or fe se me .
as we ha al se in th ex it is po to re th nu of ch wi a lo of ac .
fo ea su we ca ob a he es on th nu of ir ch fr th ge er cu in fi .
we un - de on en in ea co of ta i .
th ro nu of th en is an es fo th ra po th di ta re ch fr ta ir on .
fo ex , fi .
12 sh a lo mi of th rf ge - al er cu at 12 ch .
th , th be 12 se ch ca be us wi in th er es .
th po of th 12 ch ov or cl to th mo co we ma wi a gr ba .
ex fo ve fe of th , th ch ha a hi ra .
fo fo of th su on fe ot ( no ) ch we ra ab th ma mi - er po ( se un ra )
12 no th in th st cv wa no ap .
th ra of th 12 ee ch wa ca by th rf me .
th 12 ch ov or cl to mo ar of th co ar ma wi gr ba fo al fi su .
un ra po ma th es mi of th rf er cu fo ev su fr wh on th er ra in pr ( se fi .
12 fo th in er cu )
rf an 12 - op pr to be ca of se re ch , wh th fc fa fo so su .
es fo sm nu of ch rf is sl su ov th fc an 12 - op .
fo la nu of ch th pe of l1 - op is co to rf .
as ca be se in fi .
12 it is po to re th nu of
ee ch si us th rf me th
ie tr on bi en , vo .
12 , no .
12 , ju 12
vi of ta re re fo su a , b , d an e ( on su pe co ) du im ha mo .
th sc fo ea ch wa ob by us th rf me an is ba on th fu du of 12 s .
th to ro de th vi fr ab , th se an th ro sh th fr vi an vi fr th ba .
pl se al th le co of fi .
12 fo th co ma of su c .
to th ra .
to ve th ob we
ch ft , ft , an fp ar re ac
( ci : 12 ) es th cl er us th se mo ch an co it to th er us th mo ch pl ft , ft , fp , an eo .
in by ad ar ch th er co be re fr 12 to 12 .
( ci : 12 ) tr an sv ba on th ar ch on .
th pe wa po : on 12 ac co be re in a te cv sv tr . 12
th me th al fe wa no pr th su sh ta re mu ac .
ho hi pe wa on su by th mu ac .
th ot fo su - je di no ac th le / ri ta wi co
we co th th rf me wa ca of es ph me ee ch fo th im le / ri ha pa .
th vi of ch sc ca su th an of bc ex , re ac pa or ch ca - ry mi ar an ea th ch of ch su -
fo vi pu we as a sc ca by rf to ea ch .
th ch be th un en of ta i re a sc of 12
th on ab th un en ar ma to th gr va sc ac to th ra .
12 an 12 sh th ta re ch fo th fi su .
bl re in bo pl ma ch ir fo th cl ta wh wh re ma re
12 ri wa ex op fo th te .
12 ob wa su by vi in an fr an of th ra ee si ve li mu ac or ot fo of ar co be de .
vi of ta re re fo su c ( to , fr an ba vi ) .
th le co sh th sc ob by rf ba on th co du of 12 s .
th re th co sh th de of th sc ov ti .
th ra we ob by ap th rf me se on th th sh , ov ti wi .
fo al su th in re ar lo cl to sh a cl an sy co - th mo co .
su ce of im ch .
th se co of fi .
12 ha ad im ch al sh , th su ou th mo ar pr re fr mu ac ( as di ab ) .
as th ge er wa mi fo th da of su - je we pe a cl ex of th da .
co 12 to 12 of fi .
12 vi th sp di of ta sp in ov ti .
we sp th tr da in th ov - la wi ea of 12 - s le .
fo ev ti wi , we ap ch se vi rf se .
it ca be ob - se th th th re sc pa va fr wi to wi .
th co be du to an in ch se .
an re mi be th th ta re ac pa ch ov ti .
bo is wi be ad in fu ex -
we ad tw st of th ar fe se al rf an l1 - op as we as th fc fo th sp ca of ee ch se fo bc ap .
th me we ap to th pa of mo im .
we sh th bo rf an l1 - op ar ca of si - ca re th nu of ch ne fo a ro cl - si wi an in of er .
in ou ex , th fc fa to di sa ch ra .
th re fo th de in pe of th l1 - op co to th rf fo sm nu of ch mi be th on av th re l1 - op al co no de - cr th nu of ch ch to le th 12 be th re co .
th me th al th re ch - ne we ra ac to th so of on on sv .
to ov th sh of l1 - op we su th fo pr : ch ar re wi l1 - op un th mi is ob .
in a ne st , th re ch ar ra us an it me li rf in of re on a si sv so .
th co me wa no in - ve in th pa bu wi be su to fu re .
la et al . : su ve ch se in bc
al we di no in ex pr kn of th me ta or it un ne su , ch th ar we kn to be im ( fr a ph po of vi ) we co se by rf wh ta ir ch we di .
fu th me re th us of mu ac fo on su .
we in a me to vi th ch ra .
th me ca al be us to vi th sp ch of ta re in ov ti .
th re su th th rf me ca be us fo ne ex pa in fu bc re if no a pr kn ab th lo of im ch
th au wo li to th r .
rr fo he re da pr as we as b .
ba an pr .
ki fo th he wi th ee re .
th ex sp th to g .
ba fo fr di .
