abs a bra com int ( bci ) sys one can cho fro a var of fea tha may be use for cla bra act dur a men tas .
for the spe cas of cla ele ( eeg ) sig we pro the usa of the sta of the art fea sel alg rec fea eli ( 123 ) and zer - nor opt ( 123 ) whi are bas on the tra of sup vec mac ( svm ) ( 123 ) .
the alg can pro mor acc sol tha sta - dar fil met for fea sel ( 123 ) .
we ada the met for the pur of sel eeg cha - nel .
for a mot ima par we sho tha the num of use cha can be red sig wit inc the cla err .
the res bes cha agr wel wit the exp und cor act pat dur the men
fur we sho how tim dep tas spe inf -
mat can be vis .
ind ter com int ( bci ) , cha rel - van , cha sel , ele ( eeg ) , fea rel , fea sel , rec fea eli ( rfe ) , sup vec mac ( svm ) , zer nor opt ( l12 - opt ) .
m ost bra com int ( bci ) mak use of
lea to dis ele - cep ( eeg ) sig of two or mor cla .
for som tas the rel rec pos are kno , esp whe the tas com mot ima , e . g . , the ima of lim mov , or the ove act of lar par of the cor tha occ dur int or sta of pre and
for the dev of new par who neu cor - lat are not kno in suc det , fin opt rec pos for use in bci is cha .
new par can be - com nec whe mot cor are sho les , for the inc of the inf rat of bci sys or for rob mul - cla bci .
if goo rec pos are not kno , a sim app is to use dat fro as man as pos eeg
man rec jul 123 , 123 rev mar 123 , 123
thi wor was sup in par by the deu for ( dfg ) and in par by the nat ins of hea ( nih ) .
ast ind cor aut .
lal is wit max - pla - ins for bio cyb , spe -
man .
123 , tbi 123 , ger ( e - mai : nav . mpg . de ) .
sch and m .
bog are wit ebe kar uni tbi , dep of com eng , tbi 123 , ger ( e - mai :
hin and n .
bir are wit ebe kar uni tbi , ins of med psy and beh neu , tbi 123 , ger ( e - mai :
wes and b .
sch are wit max - pla - ins for bio cyb , tbi 123 , ger ( e - mai : jas . wes .
dig obj ide 123 / tbm . 123
the pos of 123 eeg ele use for dat acq are mar in sol bla cir .
the two ref ele are mar in
ele for sig cla .
the dra of thi ap - pro is tha the ext to whi fea sel and cla - sif alg ove to noi inc wit the num of tas - irr fea , esp whe the rat of tra poi and num of fea is sma .
in add , it is dif to und whi par of the bra gen the cla rel -
we sho tha the sel of rec pos can be don rob in the abs of pri kno abo the spa dis - tri of bra act of a men tas .
spe we ada the sta of the art fea sel met zer - nor opt - miz ( l12 - opt ) and rec fea eli ( rfe ) to the pro of cha sel and dem the use of the met on the wel kno par of mot ima .
the pap is str as fol : sec ii con the exp set , the tas , and the bas dat pre .
in sec iii , the fea sel met and the cla alg are des .
res are giv in sec iv and the fin sec con .
dat acq
exp set and men tas
we rec eeg sig fro eig unt rig han mal sub usi 123 sil chl ele ( see fig .
the ref ele wer pos at tp1 and tp1
123 - 123 / 123 123 iee
iee tra on bio eng , vol .
123 , no .
123 , jun 123
two ele fp1 and 123 cm lat of the rig eye ( eog ) wer use to rec pos eog art and eye bli whi two fro - tem and two occ ele wer pos to det pos mus act dur the exp .
bef sam the dat at 123 hz an ana ban fil wit cut fre 123 hz and 123 hz was app .
the sub wer sea in an arm at 123 - m dis in fro of a com scr .
fol the exp set of ( 123 ) the sub wer ask to ima lef ver rig han mov dur eac tri .
wit eve sub , we rec 123 tri dur one sin ses .
the tot len of eac tri was 123 s .
add int int for rel var ran bet 123 and 123 s .
no out det was per and no tri wer rem dur the dat pro at any
eac tri sta wit a bla scr .
a sma fix cro was dis in the cen of the scr fro sec 123 to 123
a cue in the for of a sma arr poi to the rig or lef sid was vis for hal a sec sta wit sec 123
in ord to avo eve rel sig in lat pro sta , onl dat fro sec 123 to 123 of eac tri was con for fur ana .
fee was not pro at any tim .
as pfu and da sil hav rep ( 123 ) tha mov - men rel des of the - rhy ( 123 hz ) is not equ str in sub and mig eve fai for var rea ( e . g . , bec of too sho int int tha pre - ven a pro re - syn ) we per a pre in ord to ide and exc sub tha did not sho sig -
- act at all .
for sev of the eig sub the
- ban was onl sli dif fro the 123 hz usu giv in the eeg lit .
onl one sub sho sca any act in thi fre ran but ins a rec mov rel des - niz in the 123 hz ban .
res to onl the 123 eeg cha tha wer loc ove or clo to the mot cor we cal the max ene - ban usi the wel met ( 123 ) for eac sub .
thi fea ext res in one par per tri and cha and exp inc pri kno abo the
the eig dat set con of the wel - fea wer cla - sif wit lin svm ( see bel ) inc ind mod sel for eac sub .
gen err wer est by ten cro val ( cv ) .
as for thr sub the pre - ana sho ver poo err rat clo to cha lev the dat set wer exc fro fur ana .
dat pre
for the rem fiv sub the rec 123 s win of eac tri res in a tim ser of 123 sam poi per cha .
we fit an aut ( ar ) mod of ord 123 to the tim ser of all 123 cha usi for bac lin
pre ( 123 ) .
the thr res coe per cha and tri for the new rep of the dat .
the ext of the fea did not exp inc pri kno alt ar mod hav suc bee use for mot rel tas ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
how , the are not dir lin to the
for all fiv dat set ) and let
let den the num of tra vec ( tri ) of the dat den the dat for all fiv dat set ) .
the tra
dat for a cla is den as den ima rig han mov .
the ter dim and fea are use syn .
for by rem the
den ima lef han mov ,
for the tas use in
is obt fro a set
dim fro eve poi
fea sel and cla met fea sel alg can be cha as eit fil or wra met ( 123 ) .
the sel or omi dim of the dat dep on a per mea .
the pro of how to rat the rel of a fea if non - lin int bet fea are pre is not tri , es - pec sin the ove acc mig not be mon in the num of fea use .
som fea sel met try to ove thi pro by opt the fea sel for sub of fix siz ( plu - l tak - awa - r sea ) or by imp - men flo str ( e . g . , flo for sea ) ( 123 ) .
onl few alg lik , e . g . , gen alg can cho sub of arb siz dur the fea sel pro .
the hav suc bee use for the sel of spa fea ( 123 ) in bci app but are com de -
for the app of eeg cha sel , it is nec to tre a cer kin of gro fea hom : nu - mer val bel to one and the sam eeg cha hav to be dea wit in a con way so tha a spa int - tat of the sol bec pos .
we ada the sta of the art fea sel met 123 - opt and rfe as wel as the fis cor to imp the spe req .
the fir two alg are clo rel to svm .
sup vec mac ( svm )
the svm is a rel new cla tec dev - ope by vap ( 123 ) whi has sho to per str in a num of rea - wor pro , inc bci ( 123 ) .
the cen fro two cla by fin a ide is to sep dat
of a hyp
and an off
123 thi cho , we com dif mod ord .
for a giv ord , we fit an ar - mod to eac eeg seq .
aft pro mod sel a sup - por vec mac ( svm ) wit ten cv was tra on the coe .
mod ord 123 res in the bes mea cv err .
wit the lar pos mar , 123 whi apa fro bei an int ide has bee sho to pro the gua in
123 x lin sep the mar of a hyp is the dis of the hy -
per to the clo poi x 123 x .
lal et al . : sup vec cha sel in bci
for exa ( 123 ) )
- nor as in sta svm ( see ,
the sol of thi opt pro is usu muc spa tha the sol of pro ( 123 ) .
thu , fea sel is don imp .
unf the pro has sho to be np - har but the aut dev an ite met to app the sol .
in cas the sol has les tha the des num of zer ent , the rem fea can be ran acc to
( as in one ite ste of rfe ) .
in the ori ver of the met , the fea are mul - pli wit a sca fac dur eac ite .
onc a sca fac is zer , the cor fea is rem .
we ada thi met in the fol way : the sca fac of the fea - tur cor to a cha are sub by the mea .
thu , all fea of one cha are eit rem com ( the cha is rem ) or all fea rem .
as in the cas has to be est fro the of svm and rfe , the par tra dat in cas pri kno is not ava .
rec fea eli ( rfe )
thi fea sel met was pro by guy et al .
( 123 ) and is bas on the con of mar max .
the imp of a dim is det by the inf it has on the mar of a tra svm .
let be the inv of the
tha cor to the sma
at eac ite one svm is tra and the fea whi are rem ( typ - ica tha is one fea onl ) ; thi is equ to rem .
we ada thi met for cha sel in the fol way : let to the ref of the fc and the 123 - opt , we def for .
at eac it - era ste we rem the cha wit the low sco .
the has to be est fro the tra dat , if no pri kno is ava .
den the fea fro cha
for the rem of the pap we ref to the ada fea sel met as cha sel met .
fur , we wil als ref to the ada rfe as rec cha
lin svm .
for non dat set , sla var int .
the thi poi on the das lin are cal sup vec ( svs ) .
the sol for the hyp h can be wri in ter of the svs .
for mor det see sec iii - a .
ter of gen abi ( 123 ) .
one var of the alg con of sol the fol opt pro :
are cal sla var and ens tha the pro has a sol in cas the dat is not lin sep ( see fig .
the mar is def as in pra , one has to tra - off bet a low tra err , , and a lar mar .
thi tra - off is con by the reg par par of the mod sel pro .
if no pri kno is has to be est fro the tra dat , e . g . , by usi cv .
the val is als ref to as the rid .
for a det dis ple ref to ( 123 ) .
fin a goo val for
fis cri ( fc )
the fc det how str a fea is cor wit
the lab ( 123 ) .
for a set
is the giv by
and the var
the sco
sim .
the ran of a cha is sim set to the mea sco of the cor
zer - nor opt ( l12 - opt )
gen err est
wes et al .
( 123 ) rec sug to min the
123 the dat lin sep the sla var can imp the gen
abi of the sol .
123 zer - nor of a vec v is equ to num of non ent of v .
for mod sel pur we est the gen
err of cla via ten cv .
if the gen err of a cha sel met had to be est , a som mor ela pro was use .
an ill of thi pro is giv in fig
iee tra on bio eng , vol .
123 , no .
123 , jun 123
ill of the pro for cha sel and err est
usu cv .
in eac fol per bas on the tra set of ran of the 123 eeg cha .
for eac fol
the who dat set is spl up int 123 fol ( f12 to f12 ) as for , the cha sel ( cs in fig .
123 ) is onl , lea to a spe , 123 cla is tra on the and tes on .
for eac fol ,
bes cha , res , of the tra set of
are tra as fol :
the cor cha of the tes set of thi res in 123 tes err (
dur the las ste , the cor tes err are ave - age ove all fol .
thi lea to an est of the gen - tio err for eve num of sel cha .
cha sel
we app the thr cha sel met fc , rfe , and 123 - opt int in sec iii to the fiv dat set .
as the ex - per par is wel kno , we cou exa the re - sul con the phy pla .
the , we inv whe the bes ran cha are tho sit ove or clo to mot are .
fur we ana if the num of cha can be red wit a los of acc in ter of cv err .
123 thi con , bes mea acc to the cal ran of tha fol .
com of the thr cha sel met fis sco , rfe and l12 - opt ind for fiv sub and ave ove the sub .
met rfe all the str red of num of cha for all sub .
ini to the cha sel and ind for eac sub - for lat svm tra
was est via ten cv fro the tra dat set . 123
, the reg par
the est of the gen err for all 123 sta of the cha sel pro was car out usi lin svm as cla wit par det abo the ten cv dur the est pro are des in sec iii - e and fig
the est res are dep in fig .
the fir fiv plo sho the ind gen err for the fiv sub - jec aga the dif num of cha cho by the thr cha sel met .
the six plo in the bot rig cor sho the gen err of the thr met ave ove the fiv sub .
123 the par for eac num of cha in the pro of cha sel mig imp the acc .
how the cha of ove -
123 fac , met rfe and l12 - opt per rat a cha rem tha a
lal et al . : sup vec cha sel in bci
rfe ran of 123 eeg
ide gen err cur usi a cha sel met in the pre of irr cha .
whe rem cha ite the cla err dec sli unt all irr cha are rem .
rem mor cha res in an inc of err .
inv exp par thi can be don wit a los of cla acc .
for exa , usi 123 cha yie the sam err as the err obt usi the cv err of 123 all cha .
on the dat set of sub can be red to 123 usi 123 cha onl .
it is not tra to tes all
pos com of cha to fin the bes com .
in thi lig , the 123 cha - nel loc ove or clo to the mot cor can be con a ver goo sol tha is clo to the opt one .
for rat the ove acc of the rfe met we , thu , tra a cla - sif usi the 123 cha .
the res ave ove the fiv sub is plo as a bas in the las fig .
the ave err rat ( tak ove all sub ) of 123 usi 123 cha is ver clo to the err of the bas whi is 123 .
tab i con cha ran , whi are obt by ap - ply rec cha eli to the dat set of eac sub . 123 as the rfe met has out cf and l12 - opt , the ran in tab i wer exc cal by rfe .
to int the tab it is use to hav a clo loo at fig .
it sho an ide cur for an est of the gen err whe usi a cha or fea sel met .
as we hav als see in the exp it is pos to red the num of cha wit a los of acc .
for eac sub we can obt a heu est on the num of irr cha fro the gen err cur in fig .
we un - der one ent in eac col of tab i .
the row num of tha ent is an est for the ran pos tha div tas rel cha fro tas irr one .
for exa , fig .
123 sho a loc min of the rfe gen - ali err cur at 123 cha .
thu , the bes 123 sel cha can be use wit inc the err est .
the pos of the 123 cha ove or clo to the mot cor wer mar wit a gre bac .
exc for ver few of the , the cha hav a hig ran .
for fou of the sub onl few oth ( non ) cha wer ran abo the mar min - err pos ( see und ran )
123 not tha in thi ste cv was not app .
the ran of the 123 eeg cha was cal by the rfe met .
the 123 cha ove or clo to mot are of the cor are mar wit gre bac for all fiv sub .
und ran pos mar the est min of the rfe err cur for eve sub fro whi on the err rat inc pro ( see fig .
123 for the ind err cur )
rfe and 123 - opt pro to be cap of sel rel cha , whe the fc fai for som sub .
esp for sma num of cha rfe is sli sup ove the fc and 123 - opt .
for lar num of cha the per of l12 - opt is com to rfe .
as can be see in fig .
123 it is pos to red the num of
eeg cha sig usi the rfe met the
iee tra on bio eng , vol .
123 , no .
123 , jun 123
vis of tas rel reg for sub a , b , d and e ( one sub per col ) dur ima han mov .
the sco for eac cha was obt by usi the rfe met and is bas on the ful dur of 123 s .
the top row dep the vie fro abo , the sec and thi row sho the fro vie and vie fro the bac .
ple see als the lef col of fig .
123 for the cor map of sub c .
to the ran .
to ver thi obs we
cha ft1 , ft1 , and fp1 are rel acc
( cid : 123 ) est the cla err usi the sev mot cha and com it to the err usi the mot cha plu ft1 , ft1 , fp1 , and eog .
ind by add art cha the err cou be red fro 123 to 123 .
( cid : 123 ) tra an svm bas on the art cha onl .
the per was poo : onl 123 acc cou be rea in a ten cv svm tra . 123
tha mea tha alt fee was not pro thi sub sho tas rel mus act .
how his per was onl sup by thi mus act .
the oth fou sub - jec did not acc the lef / rig tas wit cor
we con tha the rfe met was cap of est phy mea eeg cha for the ima lef / rig han par .
the vis of cha sco can sup the ana of bci exp , rev act pat or cha car - ryi mis art and eas the cho of cha sub -
for vis pur we ass a sco cal by rfe to eac cha .
the cha bel the und ent of tab i rec a sco of 123
the one abo the und ent are map to the gre val sca acc to the ran .
123 and 123 sho the tas rel cha for the fiv sub .
bla reg in bot plo mar cha irr for the cla tas whe whi reg mar rel
123 rid was exp opt for thi tes .
123 obs was sup by vis ins and fre ana of the raw eeg sig ver lit mus act or oth for of art cou be det .
vis of tas rel reg for sub c ( top , fro and bac vie ) .
the lef col sho the sco obt by rfe bas on the com dur of 123 s .
the rem thr col sho the dev of the sco ove tim .
the ran wer obt by app the rfe met sep on the thr sho , ove tim win .
for all sub the inf reg are loc clo to sho a cle and sym con - the mot cor .
sub cen of imp cha .
the sec col of fig .
123 has add imp cha als sho , tha sub out the mot are pro res fro mus act ( as dis abo ) .
as the gen err was min for the dat of sub - jec we per a clo exa of thi dat .
col 123 to 123 of fig .
123 vis the spa dis of tas spe inf ove tim .
we spl the tra dat int thr ove - lap win eac of 123 - s len .
for eve tim win , we app cha sel via rfe sep .
it can be ob - ser tha the thr res sco pat var fro win to win .
thi cou be due to an ins cha sel .
ano rea mig be tha the tas rel act pat cha ove tim .
bot iss wil be add in fut ex -
we ada two sta of the art fea sel alg rfe and l12 - opt as wel as the fc for the spe cas of eeg cha sel for bci app .
the met wer app to the par of mot ima .
we sho tha bot rfe and l12 - opt are cap of sig - can red the num of cha nee for a rob cla - sif wit an inc of err .
in our exp , the fc fai to dis sat cha ran .
the rea for the dec in per of the l12 - opt com to the rfe for sma num of cha mig be tha on ave the rec l12 - opt alg cou not de - cre the num of cho cha to les tha 123 bef the rec con .
thi mea tha all the rem cha - nel wer ran acc to the sol of onl one svm .
to ove thi sho of l12 - opt we sug the fol pro : cha are red wit l12 - opt unt the min is obt .
in a nex ste , the rem cha are ran usi an ite met lik rfe ins of rel on a sin svm sol .
thi com met was not in - ves in thi pap but wil be sub to fut res .
lal et al . : sup vec cha sel in bci
alt we did not inc exp pri kno of the men tas or its und neu sub , cha tha are wel kno to be imp ( fro a phy poi of vie ) wer con sel by rfe whe tas irr cha wer dis .
fur the met rev the use of mus act for one sub .
we int a met to vis the cha ran .
thi met can als be use to vis the spa cha of tas rel inf ove tim .
the res sug tha the rfe met can be use for new exp par in fut bci res if no a pri kno abo the loc of imp cha
the aut wou lik to tha r .
rri for her res dat pro as wel as b .
bat and pro .
kir for the hel wit the eeg rec .
the ext spe tha to g .
bak for fru dis .
