ng a in er ce ( ci ) em ne an se om a ty of es at ay be ul or ng in ty ng a al sk .
or he al se of ng am ( eg ) ls we se he ge of he te of he rt re on ms ve re on ( 23 ) nd ro - rm on ( 23 ) ch re ed on he ng of rt or es ( vm ) ( 23 ) .
se ms an de re te ns an an - rd er ds or re on ( 23 ) .
we pt he ds or he se of ng eg an - ls .
or a or ry gm we ow at he er of ed ls an be ed ly ut ng he on or .
he ng st ls ee ll th he ed ng al ty ns ng he al
re we ow ow me nt sk ic or -
on an be ed .
ex in er ce ( ci ) , el le - ce , el on , hy ( eg ) , re ce , re on , ve re on ( fe ) , rt or ne ( vm ) , ro rm on ( 23 - pt ) .
m st in er es ( is ) ke se of
ad to le en - am ( eg ) ls of wo or re es .
or me ks he nt ng ns re wn , ly en he ks se or ry , e . g . , he on of mb ts , or he ll ty of ge ts of he ex at rs ng ns or es of on nd
or he nt of ew ms se al re - es re ot wn in ch il , ng al ng ns or se in is is ng .
ew ms an be - me ry en or ex as ow ns , or he se of he on te of ci ms or or st ti - ss is .
if od ng ns re ot wn , a le ch is to se ta om as ny as le eg
pt ed ly 23 , 3; ed ch 23 , 23
is rk as ed in rt by he he ft ( fg ) nd in rt by he al te of th ( ih ) .
sk es ng or .
al is th ax - ck - ut or al cs , pe -
tr .
23 , en 23 , ny ( e - il : en . pg . de ) .
er nd m .
an re th rd ls ty en , nt of er ng , en 23 , ny ( e - il :
er nd n .
er re th rd ls ty en , te of al gy nd al gy , en 23 , ny ( e - il :
on nd b .
pf re th ax - ck - ut or al cs , en 23 , ny ( e - il : on . en .
al ct er 23 / me . 23
he on of 23 eg es ed or ta on re ed in id ck es .
he wo ng es re ed in
es or al on .
he ck of is ap - ch is at he nd to ch re on nd as - on ms it to se es th he er of sk - nt es , ly en he io of ng ts nd er of es is ll .
in on , it is lt to nd ch rt of he in es he ss le -
we ow at he on of ng ns an be ne ly in he ce of or ge ut he al is - on of in ty of a al sk .
ly we pt he te of he rt re on ds ro - rm ti - on ( 23 - pt ) nd ve re on ( fe ) to he em of el on nd te he ss of se ds on he ll wn gm of or ry .
he er is ed as ws : on ii ns he al up , he sk , nd he ic ta ng .
in on ii , he re on ds nd he on hm re ed .
ts re en in on iv nd he al on es .
ta on
al up nd al sk
we ed eg ls om ht ed ht ed le ts ng 23 er de es ( ee ig .
he ce es re ed at 23 nd 23
23 - 23 / 23 23 ee
ee ns on al ng , ol .
23 , no .
23 , ne 23
wo es 23 nd 23 cm al of he ht ye ( og ) re ed to rd le og ts nd ye ks le wo to - al nd wo al es re ed to ct le le ty ng he nt .
re ng he ta at 23 hz an og ss er th ff es 23 hz nd 23 hz as ed .
he ts re ed in an ir at 23 - m ce in nt of a er en .
ng he al up of ( 23 ) he ts re ed to ne ft us ht nd ts ng ch al .
th ry ct , we ed 23 ls ng ne le on .
he al th of ch al as 23 s .
al al ls or on ed ly en 23 nd 23 s .
no er on as ed nd no ls re ed ng he ta ng at ny
ch al ed th a nk en .
a ll on ss as ed in he er of he en om nd 23 to 23
a ue in he rm of a ll ow ng to he ht or ft de as le or lf a nd ng th nd 23
in er to id nt ed ls in er ng es , ly ta om ds 23 to 23 of ch al as ed or er is .
ck as ot ed at ny me .
as er nd da va ve ed ( 23 ) at ve - nt ed on of he - hm ( 23 hz ) is ot ly ng in ts nd ht en il or us ns ( e . g . , se of oo rt al ls at re - nt a er re - on ) we ed a is in er to fy nd de ts at id ot ow ig -
- ty at ll .
or en of he ht ts he
- nd as ly ly ng om he 23 hz ly en in he eg re .
ly ne ct ed ly ny ty in is cy ge ut ad a le nt ed ro - on in he 23 hz nd .
ed to ly he 23 eg ls at re ed er or se to he or ex we ed he um gy - nd ng he ch od ( 23 ) or ch ct .
is re on ed in ne er er al nd el nd ly ed or ge ut he
he ht ta ts ng of he ch - es re as - ed th ar ms ( ee ow ) ng al el on or ch ct .
on rs re ed by ld ss on ( cv ) .
as or ee ts he re - is ed ry or or es se to ce el ir ta ts re ed om er is .
ta ng
or he ng ve ts he ed 23 s ws of ch al ed in a me es of 23 le ts er el .
we ed an ve ( ar ) el of er 23 to he me 23 of ll 23 ls ng rd rd ar
on ( 23 ) .
he ee ng ts er el nd al ed he ew on of he ta .
he on of he es id ot ly te or ge gh ar ls ve ly en ed or or ed ks ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
er , ey re ot ly ed to he
or ll ve ta ts ) nd et
et te he er of ng rs ( ls ) of he ta te he ta or ll ve ta ts ) .
he ng
ta or a er is ed as es ed ht nd nt .
he ms on nd re re ed ly .
or by ng he
es ed ft nd nt ,
or he sk ed in
is ed om a et
on om ry nt
re on nd on ds re on ms an be ed as er er or er ds ( 23 ) .
ey ct or it ns of he ta ng on a ce re .
he em of ow to te he ce of a re if on - ar ns en es re nt is ot al , es - ly ce he ll cy ht ot be ic in he er of es ed .
me re on ds ry to me is em by ng he re on or ps of ed es ( us - l ke - ay - r ch ) or by le - ng ng es ( e . g . , ng rd ch ) ( 23 ) .
ly ew ms ke , e . g . , ic ms an se ps of ry ze ng he re on ss .
ey ve ly en ed or he on of al es ( 23 ) in ci ns ut re ly de -
or he on of eg el on , it is ry to at a in nd of ed es ly : nu - al es ng to ne nd he me eg el ve to be lt th in a ic ay so at a al re - on of he on es le .
we ed he te of he rt re on ds 23 - pt nd fe as ll as he er on to nt se ic ts .
he st wo ms re ly ed to ms .
rt or es ( ms )
he vm is a ly ew on ue el - ed by ik ( 23 ) ch as wn to rm ly in a er of al - ld ms , ng ci ( 23 ) .
he al om wo es by ng a ea is to te ta
of a ne
nd an et
or is ce , we ed nt el rs .
or a en er , we ed an ar - el to ch eg ce .
er er el on a up - rt or ne ( vm ) th ld cv as ed on he ts .
el er 23 ed in he st an cv or .
th he st le in , 23 ch rt om ng an ve ea as en wn to de al es in
is x ar le he in of a ne is he ce of he hy -
ne to he st nt x 23 x .
al et al . : rt or el on in ci
or le ( 23 ) )
- rm as in rd ms ( ee ,
he on of is on em is ly ch er an he on of em ( 23 ) .
us , re on is ne ly .
ly he em as wn to be np - rd ut he rs ed an ve od to te he on .
in se he on as ss an he ed er of ro es , he ng es an be ed ng to
( as in ne on ep of fe ) .
in he al on of he od , he es re ti - ed th a ng or ng ch on .
ce a ng or is ro , he ng re is ed .
we pt is od in he ng ay : he ng rs of he ea - es ng to a el re ed by ir an .
us , ll es of ne el re er ed ly ( he el is ed ) or ll es in .
as in he se as to be ed om he of vm nd fe , he er ng ta in se or ge is ot le .
ve re on ( fe )
is re on od as ed by on et al .
( 23 ) nd is ed on he pt of in on .
he ce of a on is ed by he ce it as on he in of a ed vm .
et be he se of he
at nd to he st
at ch on ne vm is ed nd he es ch re ed ( yp - ly at is ne re ly ) ; is is nt to ng .
we pt is od or el on in he ng ay : et to he on of he fc nd he 23 - pt , we ne or .
at ch it - on ep we ve he el th he st re .
he as to be ed om he ng ta , if no or ge is le .
te he es om el
or he er of he er we er to he ed re on ds as el on ds .
re , we ll so er to he ed fe as ve el
ar vm .
or le ta ts , ck es ed .
he ck ts on he ed es re ed rt rs ( vs ) .
he on or he ne h an be en in ms of he vs .
or re il ee on ii - a .
ms of on ty ( 23 ) .
ne nt of he hm ts of ng he ng on em :
re ed ck es nd re at he em as a on in se he ta is ot ar 23 ( ee ig .
he in is ed as in ce , ne as to de - ff en a ow ng or , , nd a ge in .
is de - ff is ed by he on er rt of he el on re .
if no or ge is as to be ed om he ng ta , e . g . , by ng cv .
he ue is so ed to as he ge .
or a ed on se er to ( 23 ) .
ng a od ue or
er on ( fc )
he fc es ow ly a re is ed th
he ls ( 23 ) .
or a et
is en en by
nd he ce
he re
ly .
he nk of a el is ly et to he an re of he ng
ro - rm on ( 23 - pt )
on or on
on et al .
( 23 ) ly ed to ze he
is he ta ar le he ck es an ve he on
ty of he ns .
he ro - rm of a or v is al to er of ro es of v .
or el on es we ed he on
or of rs ia ld cv .
if he on or of a el on od ad to be ed , a at re ed re as ed .
an on of is re is en in ig
ee ns on al ng , ol .
23 , no .
23 , ne 23
on of he re or el on nd or on
al cv .
in ch ld ed ed on he in et of ng of he 23 eg ls .
or ch ld
he le ta et is it up to 23 ds ( 23 to 23 ) as or , he el on ( cs in ig .
23 ) is ly , ng to a ic , 23 rs is ed on he nd ed on .
or ch ld ,
23 ls , ly , of he in et of
re ed as ws :
he ng ls of he st et of is ts in 23 st rs (
ng he st ep , he ng st rs re er - ed er ll ds .
is ds to an te of he za - on or or ry er of ed ls .
el on
we ed he ee el on ds fc , fe , nd 23 - pt ed in on ii to he ve ta ts .
as he ex - al gm is ll wn , we ld ne he re - ts ng ir al ty .
re , we ed er he st ed ls re se ed er or se to or as .
re we ed if he er of ls an be ed ut a ss of cy in ms of cv or .
in is xt , st ns ng to he ed ng of at ld .
on of he ee el on ds er re , fe nd 23 - pt ly or ve ts nd ed er he ts .
od fe ws he st on of er of ls or ll ts .
al to he el on nd ly or ch ub - or er vm gs
as ed ia ld cv om he ng ta ts . 23
, he on er
he on of he on or or ll 23 es of he el on 23 as ed ut ng ar ms as rs th rs ls ut he ld cv ng he on re re ed in on ii - e nd ig
he on ts re ed in ig .
he st ve ts ow he al on or or he ve ub - ts st he nt rs of ls en by he ee el on ds .
he th ot in he om ht er ws he on or of he ee ds ed er he ve ts .
ng he er or ch er of ls in he ss of el on ht ve he cy .
er he ce of it -
in ct , ds fe nd 23 - pt rm er a el al an a
al et al . : rt or el on in ci
fe ng of 23 eg
ed on or ve ng a el on od in he ce of nt ls .
en ng ls ly he on or es ly il ll nt ls re ed .
ng re ls ts in an se of or .
ed al gm is an be ne ut a ss of on cy .
or le , ng 23 ls ds he me or as he or ed ng he cv or of 3% ll ls .
on he ta et of ct an be ed to 3% ng 23 ls ly .
it is ot le to st ll
le ns of ls to nd he st on .
in is ht , he 23 an - ls ed er or se to he or ex an be ed a ry od on at is se to he al ne .
or ng he ll cy of he fe od we , us , ed a as - er ng se 23 ls .
he lt ed er he ve ts is ed as a ne in he st re .
he ge or te ( en er ll ts ) of 3% ng 23 ls is ry se to he or of he ne ch is 3% .
le i ns el gs , ch re ed by ap - ng ve el on to he ta et of ch ct . 23 as he fe od as ed cf nd 23 - pt , he gs in le i re ly ed by fe .
to et he le it is ul to ve a er ok at ig .
it ws an ed ve or an te of he on or en ng a el or re on od .
as we ve so en in he ts it is le to ce he er of ls ut a ss of cy .
or ch ct we an in a ic te on he er of nt ls om he on or es in ig .
we un - ed ne ry in ch mn of le i .
he ow er of at ry is an te or he nk on at es sk nt ls om sk nt es .
or le , ig .
23 ws a al um of he fe er - on or ve at 23 ls .
us , he st 23 ed ls an be ed ut ng he or te .
he ns of he 23 ls er or se to he or ex re ed th a ey nd .
pt or ry ew of em , se ls ve a gh nk .
or ur of he ts ly ew er ( or ) ls re ed ve he ed um - or ns ( ee ed ks )
se te at in is ep cv as ot ed .
he ng of he 23 eg ls as ed by he fe od .
he 23 ls er or se to or as of he ex re ed th ey nd or ll ve ts .
ed nk ns rk he ed um of he fe or ve or ry ct om ch on he or te es ly ( ee ig .
23 or he al or es )
fe nd 23 - pt of to be le of ng nt ls , as he fc ls or me ts .
ly or ll rs of ls fe is ly or er he fc nd 23 - pt .
or er rs of ls he ce of 23 - pt is le to fe .
as an be en in ig .
23 it is le to ce he er of
eg ls ly ng he fe or he
ee ns on al ng , ol .
23 , no .
23 , ne 23
on of sk nt ns or ts a , b , d nd e ( ne ct er mn ) ng ed nd ts .
he re or ch el as ed by ng he fe od nd is ed on he ll on of 23 s .
he op ow ts he ew om ve , he nd nd rd ow ow he al ew nd ew om he ck .
se ee so he ft mn of ig .
23 or he ng ng of ct c .
to he ng .
to fy is on we
ls 23 , 23 , nd 23 re nt ng
( id : 23 ) ed he on or ng he en or ls nd ed it to he or ng he or ls us 23 , 23 , 23 , nd og .
ed by ng ct ls he or ld be ed om 3% to 3% .
( id : 23 ) ed an vm ed on se ct ls ly .
he ce as or : ly 3% cy ld be ed in a ld cv vm ng . 23
at ns at gh ck as ot ed is ct ed sk nt le ty .
er is ce as ly ed by is le ty .
he er ur ub - ts id ot ny he ft / ht ks th ng
we de at he fe od as le of ng ly ul eg ls or he ed ft / ht nd gm .
he on of el es an rt he is of ci ts , al on ns or ls ar - ng ng ts nd se he ce of el ub -
or on es we ed a re ed by fe to ch el .
he ls ow he ed es of le i ve a re of 23
he es ve he ed es re ed to he ey ue le ng to ir nk .
23 nd 23 ow he sk nt ls or he ve ts .
ck ns in th ts rk ls nt or he on sk as te ns rk nt
he ge as ly ed or is st .
is on as ed by al on nd cy is of he aw eg ly ry le le ty or er ms of ts ld be ed .
on of sk nt ns or ct c ( op , nt nd ck ew ) .
he st mn ws he es ed by fe ed on he te on of 23 s .
he ng ee ns ow he nt of he es er me .
he gs re ed by ng he fe od ly on he ee er , ng me ws .
or ll ts he ve ns re ed se to ws a ar nd al on - he or ex .
ct on of nt ls .
he nd mn of ig .
23 as al nt ls so ws , at ct de he or ea ly ng om le ty ( as ed ve ) .
as he on or as al or he ta of ub - ct we ed a er on of is ta .
ns 23 to 23 of ig .
23 ze he al on of sk ic on er me .
we it he ng ta to ee er - ng ws ch of 23 - s th .
or ry me ow , we ed el on ia fe ly .
it an be ob - ed at he ee ng re ns ry om ow to ow .
is ld be ue to an le el on .
er on ht be at he sk ed on rn es er me .
th es ll be ed in re ex -
we ed wo te of he rt re on ms fe nd 23 - pt as ll as he fc or he al se of eg el on or ci ns .
he ds re ed to he gm of or ry .
we ed at th fe nd 23 - pt re le of fi - ly ng he er of ls ed or a st as - on ut an se of or .
in ur ts , he fc ed to er ng el gs .
he on or he se in ce of he 23 - pt ed to he fe or er rs of ls ht be at on ge he ve 23 - pt hm ld ot de - se he er of en ls to ss an 23 re he on ed .
is ns at ll he ng an - ls re ed ng to he on of ly ne vm .
to me is ng of 23 - pt we st he ng re : ls re ed th 23 - pt il he um is ed .
in a xt ep , he ng ls re ed ng an ve od ke fe ad of ng on a le vm on .
is on od as ot in - ed in is er ut ll be ct to re ch .
al et al . : rt or el on in ci
gh we id ot te it or ge of he al sk or ts ng al es , ls at re ll wn to be nt ( om a al nt of ew ) re ly ed by fe as sk nt ls re ed .
re he od ed he se of ar ty or ne ct .
we ed a od to ze he el gs .
is od an so be ed to ze he al ge of sk nt on er me .
he ts st at he fe od an be ed or ew al ms in re ci ly if no a ri ge ut he on of nt ls
he rs ld ke to nk r .
ig or er ss ta ng as ll as b .
es nd of .
ld or ir lp th he eg gs .
ey nd al ks to g .
ir or ul on .
