his per cts ome eas ted at ing our ing of the ure ces ted ith ort tor ( sv ) nel ons .
we rst uss the try of ure ace .
in lar , we iew hat is own out the ape of the age of put ace der the ure ace map , and how his ces the ity of sv ods .
ing his , we ibe how the ric ing the sic try of the ped ace can be ted in rms of the nel , ing the ple of the ass of ous ial els , ich are ten sed in sv ern ion .
we hen uss the ion een ure ace and put ace by ing ith the ion of how one can , ven ome tor in ure ace , nd a age ( act or ate ) in put ace .
we ibe hms to kle his sue , and how eir ity in two ons of nel ods .
rst , we use it to uce the nal ity of sv ion ns; ond , we ine it ith the nel pca thm , eby ing a ear cal ing que ich is own to orm ell on eal - rld ata .
dex rms ing , nel ods , pca , ced set
hod , rse ion , ort tor nes .
ing els are ons
all ern ets
ive ise to ive ces
is ome act set in ich the ata ves , lly in the ort tor ( but not ily ) a set of ( sv ) ity , ing els are ten red to as cer els ( ion ii - b ill how why ) .
hey ide an ant way of ing ith ear hms by ing hem to ear nes in ome ure ace ead of a dot uct in ted to put ace : ing nds to ing the ata nto a bly igh - by a ( lly ear ) map
nal dot uct ace
ipt ved ary 123 , 23; sed may 123 , 123
art of his ork was one ile p .
sch was ith ell abs and b .
opf and a .
ola ere ith the ent of ing , ian nal ity , rra .
his ork was ted by the arc and the dfg der ant ja 123 / 123 , 123 , 123
opf was ith gmd rst , 123 lin , any .
he is now
ith oft rch ltd . , dge 123 , u . k .
ika , k . - r .
ler , g .
sch , and a .
ola are ith gmd rst ,
123 lin , any .
ges is ith ell ies , del nj , usa .
sch is ith the max - nck - tut fur che tik ,
123 gen , any .
her tem ier s 123 - 123 ( 123 ) 123 - 123
, and ing the dot uct ere , i . e . , ( 123 )
a ure map sso - by tue of his rty , we all all ted ith any ear thm ich can be ied out in rms of dot cts can be ade ear by ing an a ori sen nel .
les of uch hms ude the ial ion hod , sv nes , and nel pca ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
the ice hat one has to pay for his nce , ver , is hat the ons are nly ned as ons in rms of put rns ped nto ure ace .
for nce , the mal tor of an sv ane is ded in rms of svs , ust as the nel pca ure ors are sed in rms of ing les
ith ome ped est int
hen ing an sv ion ion or a nel pca ure tor , his is lly not a lem : due to ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) nto a nel ion ich can be ted ven ves in an ite - nal ace .
in ome ses , ver , ere are ons ing a ore ive ing of hat tly is the ion een rns in put ace and nts of ure ace , ven as ons uch as ( 123 ) .
his eld ing far rom ood , the ent per pts to her ome eas ing the lem , and sly ses ome hms for ons ere the ove ion is ant .
ese are the lem of ing by nel pca , and the lem of ing up sv ion ons .
the der of
is zed as ows .
ion ii ses ent ays of ing the ing rom put ace nto ure ace .
ing hat , we iey iew two ure ace hms , sv nes and nel pca ( ion iii ) .
the cus of est of the per , the way ack rom ure ace to put ace , is bed in ion iv , and , in the ore ral orm of ing rse ons of ure ace ons , in ion v .
the hms sed in ese two ons are lly ted in ion vi and sed in ion vii .
rom put ace to ure ace
in his ion , we how how the ure ces in ion are ned by ice of a ble nel ion .
ght nto
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
the ure of ure ace can hen be ned by ing eir ion to ing nel ert ces , by how hey can be ted by an cal map , by eir sic try , ich ads to ful new ity lts , and by eir sic try , ich can be ted ely in rms of the nel . 123
the cer nel map
we art by ing the ion of ers rem ven to be a ite ure ace . 123 by
in ( 123 ) .
we ume ost all we ean ept for ets of ure ero .
rem 123 ( cer ) : ose
ric eal - ued 123 uch hat
is a sym - the ral tor
ion rem , for ach
, all it
, uch hat
ere sts a que
to , and
is the ion on
in ast , we use uct ) .
in iew of his rty ,
ned by ing the ond is the dot uct of the khs .
to ote the cal ( ean ) dot is led a ing
ote hat by ( 123 ) ,
lly ero .
nce the set of ons ans the ole khs .
the dot uct on the khs hus and can hen nly eds to be ned on be ded to the ole khs by ity and ity .
rom ( 123 ) , it ows hat in lar
be the zed ons of
ted ith the ues
, ted in ing
lds for ost all in the ter ase , the ies ges ely and mly for ost
rom ent 123 , it ows hat
nds to a dot
for ost all
in act , the orm nce of the ies ies hat uch hat ven if the nge can be ted hin
ere sts an
, een ges of
as a dot uct in
the ing nel map
we can lso ink of the ure ace as a ing nel ert ace ( khs ) .
to see his ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , all hat a khs is a ert ace of ons uch hat all ion als , i . e . , the aps , are ous .
in hat ase , by the esz
123 ose ers who are iey ted in ons and hms
ght ant to der ing ver the ent ion .
123 a ite ure ace is a set x ith a - bra ned on it , and a ure ned on the ter , ing ( x ) < 123 ( i . e . , up to a ing tor , is a ity ure ) .
a - bra on x is a ily of ets of x ; ich is sed der ary set - tic ons ( ble ons , ons , and nts ) , and ich ins x as a ber .
a ure is a ion : ! + ich is - ive , i . e . , the ure of a set ich is the int ons of ome her ets als the sum of the
123 i . e . , a ion of two les ich ves ise to an ral tor .
( his ies hat
his ans hat any ing nel uct in her ace .
is ric ) .
ote hat nds to a dot
let us now der a cer nel , i . e . , one ich ses the ion of rem 123 , and uct a dot uct uch ing the ons
mes a ing nel for the ert ace
by ity , we ave
is a cer nel , the
sen to be nal ith ect to the dot uct in nce it is ard to uct a dot uct
( ing the ker bol to the ing nel rty ( 123 ) ( ing ( 123 ) ) .
, in ich ase ( 123 ) ces
ore , ( 123 ) des us ith a ure map
ion 123 : for any cer nel
ere sts a
uch hat for
the cal nel map
ile ing an ing ive cal int , oes not ear all hat ful at rst ght .
in ice , it uld eem ess to rst map the uts nto ons , i . e . , nto ite - nal cts .
ver , for rom ( 123 ) by a ven set , it is ble to ate nly ing it on ese nts ( cf . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
ion 123 : for ven rns
, we all
the cal nel map ith ard to .
the ase ere
ple : der rst
is a cer i . e . , we ate on the ing rns .
if we rry out a ear thm in ure ace , hen ing ill ake ace in the ear pan of the ped ing rns .
ore , we can ent the ion .
ver , the dot uct to use in hat sen - , nce the ion is not ply the cal dot uct in ill lly not orm an mal tem .
to urn nto a ure map ted ith , we eed to dow ith a dot uct
of ( 123 ) as
to his end , we use the atz ive rix . 123 ing ( 123 ) on the ing rns , his lds the elf - ncy ion ( cf . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) )
ere , we ave sed
to ote the
nel ram rix
the ion ( 123 ) can be sed for nce by the seu -
tly , we uld ave ted his ing ion , ich nds to a nel pca ing ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , tly nto the map , by ing ( 123 ) to
his ply nts to ing the tor sis ors els the ing of the ons of the ral tor ing to the nel , ven by ( 123 ) .
are the ues of
for ata ets ere the ber of les is ler han eir ity , it can lly be lly tly her han ing els ive to rry out in ver ent thm ( vms , or nel pca , say ) one nts to use .
as an ide , ote hat in the ase of nel pca ( to be bed in ion iii ) , one oes not ven eed to rry out the ing tep : ing the cal dot uct in ich lds the ame ead to ing ors ith red ues .
his was ted out by ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
we end his ion ith two tes ich ate why the use of ( 123 ) eed not be ted to the ial ase we ust
ore ral els .
hen ing ric els in ( 123 ) , her ith the cal dot uct , one 123 ote hat ery dot uct can be ten in his orm .
ver , we do not ire ess of a , as the ull ace can be ted out , ing to a wer - nal ure ace .
123 it is ood hat if k is lar , we use the rse of k 123 :
ill ely ork ith a rix
, ith ral ote hat ach ive ite rix can be
if we ted to rry out the ing tep , it uld ( cf . , ote 123 ing
ave to be ing
ent ion ets .
ika ( 123 ) has med per -
nts to eed up nel pca by ing as a per set of
now hat we ave bed the nel map in ome ail , ing ons on it , we all ext ook at its ies .
lly , we udy its ect on the ity of nel ods ( ion ii - d ) and the ced try in ure ace ( ion ii - e ) .
the ity of the nel map
nik ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ves a und on the ity , red by the vc - ion , of mal gin ers .
it kes
is an per und ing the gth of the ght tor of the ane in cal orm , and ius of the est ere ing the ata in the ace ere the ane is ted .
the ler his ere is , the ler is lso the ity , ith ial cts on the ion ror nds .
if the ata is ted in a bly pic way , ich is ten the ase in put ace , hen ( 123 ) can be rly ise . 123 if , ver , the ion of the ata is uch hat it oes not ll the ere , hen ( 123 ) is ful .
the ent in the der of the ion , ich is zed rom ( 123 ) , ows hat ing a nel lly ils hat the ata in act ies in ome box ith dly ing ths , ich can be uch ler han the ove ere .
rom ent 123 of rem 123 , ere sts ome ant
ing on the nel
and ost all
ped in ith ide ths
is lly ned in an xis lel
to see how his ely cts the ass of ons we is one in rms are ing , we rst ote hat ing in of dot cts .
ore , we can ate any ble by the ing ear ion of the ata in rse int ion on the set of ble ght , we ave
, i . e . , for any ble tor
nce , we may uct a nal ing tor ich tes the des of the ove ped as uch as ble , ile ing hat it ill ves in a ere of the tor on the ght and ide of ( 123 ) , but it uys us ing
his ill not nge the
123 in rms of opy ers , his is due to the ess of the ate ven
by a ous rem of rey ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
nce ing is one in rms of dot cts , ing up the ata by a can be ted by ing the ght ors ith 123 : by ing a uch hat the ata is ill ned in a all of the ame ius r; we ely uce our ion ass ( zed by the ght tor ) , ich ads to ter ion nds ich end on the nel ing the map :
ing the ond tor : one can how hat the ion ass lly ves as if it was ite - nal , ith a cut - off ned by the ate of cay of the ing hat ads to the ved nds is ome - hat ate and not tly be ned in ull ail .
in a ell , the dea is to ute the ity ( red in rms of ing ers of the sv ion ass , ted on an - ple ) via the opy ers of a ble ear , der rst the tor
for our ose , the opy ers of are ial .
ese can be ted a ere of ius as the opy ers of the tor ion ies of opy ers , ese can be per ded ing nto unt the ove ing tor in a her ise way .
the ter the ues of the ted ith a ven nel cay , the ler the opy ers ( and nce the ity ) of the ing ure ace thm ion ass , and the ger the ion ror nds hat one can ove .
as an ple , we now der how the opy ers end lly on the ues of
is a cer nel ith
an ple of uch a nel ( for
is the ian
his ion ows the ion of a ori ner - ion ror nds ing on the ues of the nel .
ing lar opy ber ods , ble to ive her ise ata - ent nds in rms of the ues of the nel ram rix ( 123 ) .
123 der two med ces e and f : for n 123 , the nth opy ber of a set m e is ned as n ( m ) : = inf f > 123 : ere sts an - ver for m in e ing n or wer tsg : ( all hat the ing ber n ( ; m ) , ing lly its nal rse , res how any lls of ius one eds to ver m : ) the opy ers n ( t ) of an tor t : e ! f are ned as the opy ers of the age of the nit all der t : ote hat 123 ( t ) = jjt jj; ely , the her opy ber low a ner ion of the ity of the age of t ( e . g . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
ote hat opy ers ave ome ice ies hat ing ers are ing .
for nce , ing a set of a med tor ace by ome tor ply les its opy ers by the ame tor .
opy ers are a ing ool for ing the ity of ure ace ods .
his is due to the act hat in the ear ase , ich is hat we are ted in for ure ace hms , hey can be ied ing ful ods of nal sis ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
the ric of the nel map
her way to ain ght nto the ure of ure ace is to der the sic ape of the old to ich nes ata is ped .
it is ant ere to ish and the ace in hat ace to een the ure ace lly map , ich we ill ich nts in put ace tly oth hat res uch as a ian ric can be ned on it .
ere we ill low the sis of ( 123 ) , to ich the der is red for ore ils , ugh the ion to the ass of ous ial els
for ity , we ume ere hat
ill be an
we rst ote hat all sic cal ies of
can be ved nce we now the ian ric ced the ian ric can be by the ing of ned by a ric ric sor do not eed to now the cit ing it can be ten ely in rms of the nel .
to see his der the ine ent
to put ace
ond to the tor ace , we ave
ent a all but ite
hus we can ead off the nts of the ric sor
for the ass of els ich are ons nly of dot rod - cts een nts in oth ant and ant
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
nts of the ric ake a ple orm
ere the ime tes ive ith ect to the rgu - to ate , let us ute the sic met - ing to the ass of cal ies of the ace ous ial cer els
is a ant .
ies ing to the sic ure of a ace are ely red by the ann
ere the fel ols of the ond ind are ned
hus we nd hat for his ass of els , the ann cur -
ure , for ary put ace ion
, is ven by
one can ect hat the ity on the ace ill ome ill ved for ata ose orm is all , for ous ial els , but not for the ous ase .
lar ems may ise in the ern ion ase if nes ata ies ear the ity .
ese ons can be ded to ute the sic ume ent on on , and to ive ome ple ary sts hat ust be sed by any nel if it is to be a cer nel : the der is red to ( 123 ) for ils .
, ich may be sed to ute the ity
ure ace hms
we ext ibe the two hms sed in his per : sv nes , and nel pca .
the sv thm all not be bed in ail , let us nly iey x the ion .
sv ers ( 123 ) uct a mum gin ane in put ace , his nds to a ear ion
ary of the orm
are the ing les .
ose ith
, ich are led vs; in any ons , ost of the und by ing a tic ram , urn out to be ero .
ent ion ies in oth ocr and ect ion ave een ned ing sv nes ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
a ion to the ase of ion ion , ing to lar ion ion , sts ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
nel pal ent sis ( 123 ) ies out a the ted res ake
ear pca in the ure ace the ear orm
it is ing to are his ult ith hat for the
ere , up to a ion , the th tor of the rix
are the nts of
his can be ood as ows .
we ish to nd gen -
of the nce rix
the ure ace , 123 ere
his sis ows hat ing the ant
nel lts in ing ces in the ies .
oth res ish for
, as ted .
ver for
hes for all ers eas
oes not ish for any ore , all ces for ous els ith ing ure ( i . e . , ose one of the ing ces for ous els
ave a ity at
hus ond ing ght nto the cal ure ted by ice of nel , the met - of the ces in cal sis lso ves ore ete lts .
for ple , 123 ote hat if c < 123 the nel is not a cer nel and the ove sis
oes not ply .
is ery igh nal his ill be in the ase hen ble to ute tly .
to be ill ble to lve his lem , one ses cer els .
to his end , we eed to in dot cts .
we ive a ion ich nly ses hen ace any nce of way we oid ing ith the ped ata tly , ich may be ble in rms of ory and nal ost .
to nd a ion for pca ich ses nly dot rod - cts , we rst ute the nce rix ( 123 ) nto the ote hat all ons to his
123 ere we ume hat the ped ata is red , too .
in ral his ill not be rue , but all ons can ily be ted to orm an cit ing in f ( 123 ) .
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
ing ata .
hus , we may der the ent tem
ust lie in the pan of
- ges of the
and and the ion
ing ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) nto ( 123 ) , and ing a
we ive at a lem ich is ast
in rms of dot cts : lve
ing the ion
( for ils on the ast tep see ( 123 ) ) .
to act res , we ute the ion of the
nto the th tor in the ure
age of a est int
lly , his ill be uch per han ing the dot uct in the ure ace tly .
to ude the ief ary of nel pca , we ate a ion ich ves the ame zer ( the gth of the ght tor ) as the one sed in sv nes .
, the th nel pca ure rac - , is mal ong all ure ors of
ion 123 : for all
tor , led by
the age lem .
not ach int in the pan of the ped put ata is ily the age of ome put ern .
ore , not ach int hat can be ten as an ion in rms of ped put rns ( e . g . , a nel pca tor , or a svm ane mal tor ) , can ily be sed as the age of a gle put ern .
rom ure ace to put ace
ike ion ii , ich bed how to get rom put ace nto ure ace , we now udy the way ack .
ere has een a air unt of ork on cts of his lem in the ext of ing so - led ced set ods ( e . g . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
for cal ons , we all one ced set ods to ion v , as hey cus on a lem hat is ady ore lex han the one we uld ike to art ith .
the age lem
as ted in the ion , ure ace hms ess eir ons as ons in rms of ped put nto the ure ace nts ( 123 ) .
ver , nce the map is ear , we not lly ert hat ach uch
ion ill ave a age der be asy to ute , as own by the ing ult ( 123 ) .
if the age ted , it uld
, i . e . , a int
ion 123 : der a ure ace ion
if ere sts a
in the nse hat it has the est ght tor
is an ble ion
, hen we can
ect to the ons hat
123 ) it is nal to the rst ors ( in ure ace )
123 ) ied to the ing set
nce set of uts .
nel pca ure
it ads to a nit
oth sv nes and nel pca ize cer els to ize a ear thm to a ear ng; ver , oth use the ame zer , eit in ent ins of sed sus sed .
ess , fea - ure ion nts on ten git ges ing nel pca ave own hat a ear ane ier ned on the ted res can orm as ell as a ear sv ine ned tly on the uts ( 123 ) .
is any mal sis of put ace .
oof : we and
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
ral rks on his ion uld be ven .
rst ,
les of els ich are ble ons of are ial els
age .
as we all see in nts , ver , ven ter ges can be und , ich kes ome ing ons ble ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) :
and oid els
a lar ult lds for rbf els ( ing the ion ity ) all we eed is a nel ich ows the ruc - rom , ted on ome put nts ich we are wed to ose ( for ils , cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
the ial ion , rly ,
is the nce of the age .
ely , ere are any ons ere ere are no ges .
to ate his , we der the ure ( 123 ) .
rly , nly nts in ure ace ich can do ave a age der his map .
to be ten as ize his set of nts in a cic ple , der
, map it nto
ing : ven a isy her nts to ain ata set is red in the rst nts nly ick up the ein his nse , ght of as a sed ion of
, and hen ute a ere , the ope is hat the ain ure in the ons , and the ing
ion : ven the ors
and a all num - , ute a his is ful
( cf . , ( 123 ) ) of
ber of res age as an ate ion of
is ler han the ity of the put ata .
ion : ize a ear ure tor
, but not
by ing a age .
in his per , we cus on the rst int .
in the ext ion , we all lop a hod for ing ( 123 ) , ich we ill ter , in the tal ion , ply to the ase ere
an thm for ate ges
aps ach put nto a ian ing on in his ase , hat int .
ver , it is own ( 123 ) hat no ian can be ten as a ear ion of ans red at her nts .
ore , in the ian ase , one of the ons ( 123 ) , ing ial ses ith nly one erm , has an act
the lem hat we had lly set out to lve has ned out to be ble in the ral ase .
let us try to ask for ess .
her han ing to nd act ges , we now der ate nes .
we all
are ere ors
for ich ood ate ges ist ? as bed in ion iii , nel pca is ing but pca in
the ent ion ( 123 ) ves an sis for the ase of the ian nel , ich has ven to orm ery ell in ons ( 123 ) , and ses an ion ure for ing ges of nel ons .
we art by ing a lem tly ore ral han the age lem : we are ing to ate rst rve hat her
we can ize the nce een
and the nal
to his end , we ize
ith the ing mal ion rty ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
are ted ing to nin - ere , we ume hat the ing the est ero
is the - nal ion miz -
ate age : lly , ady
can be ted to ave a ood rox - is a ood ate
123 ust how all it eds to be in der to orm a ory ion ill end on the lem at and .
ore , we ave ned rom ing a mal ion .
is ble to the one of ( 123 ) ver
ich can be sed in rms of the nel .
the iza - ion of ( 123 ) ver , nce it ses a wer - nal lem , and nce ave ent ing ior .
nce the mum of ( 123 ) is und , it is ded to the mum of ( 123 ) by ing ( cf .
( 123 ) ) ( 123 ) can her be zed ing ard ues ( as in ( 123 ) ) , or , for lar ces of els , ing xed - int ion ods , as own tly .
for els ich sfy
ian els ) , ( 123 ) ces to
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
the nce een two ies ( ulo ion
to see his , we ene the ets
and the nds
ven a tor 123 f , we try to ate it by a ple of a tor ( zzz ) in the age of put ace ( n ) der the ear map by ing zzz uch hat the ion nce of nto pan ( ( zzz ) ) is
i . e . , we are ing to nd a ere the nce een the ( zed ) ies for the two ses is mal , and ate the ion to ( 123 ) by a ian red at ver , ote hat we can ite ( 123 ) as
for the mum , we ave
, we ute ( 123 ) to get
the ent ion
to ate the ent
in rms of
, we ain
, ing to
for the ian nel we hus ive at
ced set ( rs ) ods
the lem
we now ove on to a tly ore ral lem , rst ied by ( 123 ) , ere we are no ger nly ing for gle ges , but ons .
it ill urn out hat one can lso use the hod ped in the ast ion to ign an thm for the ore ral ase .
ume we are ven a tor
, ded in ges
of put rns
and ise an ion
her han ing for a gle age , we now try to ate it by a ced set
and hus is ero in a the tor als ood of the mum of ( 123 ) , ess the mum elf is ero .
the ter nly urs if the ion of is ero , in ich ase it is ess the ear pan of cal ies ted to to try to ate ing all can hus be hed by ing
the ion ith ent ing ues .
gly , ( 123 ) can be ted in the ext of ing ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
it nes the ter of a gle ian ter , ing to ure as any of the as ble , and sly ids ose the ign of the als the bel of the ern is his ign ich hes ( 123 ) rom ain ing or ric ity ion .
the nce of ive gns is ted to the act hat we are not ing to ate a ric ity but
for sv ers ,
to his end , one can
the ial int is hat ven if can be ted ( and zed ) in rms of the nel .
is not ven tly , ( 123 )
in the ist ark of 123 123 ten its , sv nes are ore ate han any her gle ier ( 123 ) ; ver , hey are ior to ral ets in run - ime ion eed ( 123 ) .
in ons ere the ter is an
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
sue , it is hus ble to ome up ith ods to eed up ngs by ing the sv ion ore rse , i . e . , ing ( 123 ) by ( 123 ) .
ing the nts
tly , the rs lem sts of two rts .
one has , and one has to ute the to ine the rs ors ion nts we art ith the er; tly , as it is ier , tly , as it is mon to ent rs ods .
ion 123 : the mal nts
in the 123 - orm are
the ram rix can her be ted nly rom ose les ich ave a ero , or rom a ger set ich we ant to use for the ion . ) gly , it ill urn out hat his lem is ely ted to nel pca .
let us art ith the est ase .
ume ere sts an
ing ( 123 ) , his ads
ith lue 123 , i . e . ,
ote hat if the
are rly ent , as hey uld be if we ant to use hem for ion , hen has ull ank .
ise , one can use the rse , or ect the ion ich has the est ber of ero
oof : see ( 123 ) .
we ate the ive of the dis -
and set it to ero .
ing
, we ain
no rs thm ing the 123 - orm ity ion can ent his ult .
for nce , ose we are ven an thm hat tes the and mes up ith a ion .
hen we can ays use the ion to ute the mal nts to get a ion ich is at ast as ood as the nal one .
ent hms can , ver , fer in the way hey ine in the rst ace .
the one alt ith in the , ile the one in ext ion ply cts ets of the ion v - d ses ors ent rom the nal
ced set ion
123 ) ion via nel pca : the dea for the rst lgo - the ull ace of thm ses rom the ion hat ely lls us the ram rix how any ors can be ved rom an ion ile ing ero ion ror ( ing we tly ust the nts ) , i . e . , how rse we can ake an sv ion , say , out ing it the ast ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
( ere ,
are rly ent , and ere - his ans hat the ore any of the be sed in rms of the ers .
nce , we may use the ors ith lue ero to ate ain rms rom any ion in the
ich mes ith a ero
hat ens if we do not ave ero ues , uch as in the ase of ian els ( 123 ) ? ely , we uld ill eve hat ven ugh the ove is no ger ely rue , it uld ive a ood ion .
ver , the ial nce is hat in der to get the est ble ion , we now eed to ake nto unt the nts of the ion , say , hen his ror ill mit an ror by ing
how do we hen ect the mal
rly , we uld ike to nd nts ing the
ror we mit by ing
to ish a ion to nel pca , we ake a nge of les .
rst , ene nce ( 123 ) als
lem of ing
, his ads to the
a ard ion ows hat we can ver the , i . e . , the ues to ion nts for add to the
is ant hen ing
for ing out
her han ing the ear ion ( 123 ) , we now ise a lly ive ate ion .
it is one is zed ted by the ion hat for the tor ith mal lue , ent ith the ial ase sed ove ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
in hat ase ,
123 the dea of ing the ort tor ion by lly ing ual ort ors , and hen ing the nts of ose hat ain to ize the ing ror , was ved at tly by ier lle , who lso ved the ion to be zed , ( 123 )
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
, ith lue
ore lly , if
is any zed
to ose of the lus , we ite
the tic ing lem
in rms of the new les , we end up ith
his can be zed in nel pca and ing ugh the rix ity can be ced to we can ate
ons by ing by nly ing the sen a ori .
nce , sen in a led yet
ing all nal ons ide , the mal edy ion to the ove ion lem , ent to ( 123 ) , can lso be ned by ing ion 123 : ute the mal ion for all ble rns hat one uld ave out ( i . e . , use ets of
and ate ( 123 ) in ach ase .
the ame ies to ets of any ize .
if we ave the
ces to ely can ugh all ets of ize
, hen ion 123 des the mal way of ing the est ion of a ven ize .
ter ons can nly be ned if we rop the ion hat the ion is ten in rms of the nal rns , as one in ion v - d .
no ter how we end up ing , we ate
his lem can be ved ith ard tic pro - ing ols .
the ion ( 123 ) uld be sed tly as ion nts .
for mal ion , ver , we ely use it to ect ich rns to use for the ion ( ose ith ero nts ) , and ute the mal nts ing ion 123
123 ) the ass ase : in any ons , we ace the lem of sly ing a set of ace ons .
for nce , in git ion , a com - ary ers , one for mon ach is to ain ach git .
to his end , the tic ing ion of ion v - c . 123 can be ied to
the ole eme can be ted til the ion of
is tly rse .
if one nts to oid ing to nd the at ach tep new , hen ate est lue of mes ing ics can be ved .
in our nts to be ted low , we did ute all ors at ach tep , ing the ram rix ted rom the svs and hen ted
ing to ( 123 ) .
123 ) ion via
hod for ing ess ich is red by age ers ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
ven ome ion
, we ate it by
is a ant ing the off een ess and ity of ion .
the con - can be set to one or is the ean of say .
in the ter ase , we are ing for a ser ion , nce ore sis is put on ing rms ich are ady all .
his cts the ion hat it is ess ing to try to ink ery rge rms .
lly , we uld ike to unt the ber of ero nts , her han sum eir li; ver , the mer oes not ead to an tly ble ion lem .
the xes and are ood to nge ver all svs ( i . e . , ion ors ich ave a ero ent for at ast one of the ers ) , and ver the , we use her one or , ith the ame ale as ove ,
is the ean of all
her ith the int ( 123 ) res hat we nly ize the est of the nts ing to ach ual sv .
ore , as oon as one ent is ing sed by one the ons , it oes not ost ing to lso use it for her one .
his is ely hat we ant for eed - up ses : if we ave to ute a ain dot uct way , we ght ust as ell use it for the her
, we ive at the
ges ver all svs .
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
123 ) a ote on the ity of ced set ion : why uld we ect ese res to be ful ? rst , for sv for ome ive lue of the , ere is son to eve hat the sv ion can be ade ser by ing the int ( ote hat ( 123 ) oes not are out the int ) . 123 ond , the ber of ues ich are ero ( and hus the ber of rns hat can be ved out oss ) , or at ast all , nds on the lem at and and the nel sed .
for nce , ian nel ram ces do not ave ero ues ess ome of the rns are tes ( 123 ) .
ess , ood ons are ble , nce the ues of ian els cay dly ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
ced set ion
so far , we ave alt ith the lem of how to ect a ced set of ion ors rom the nal one .
we now urn to the lly sed lem , ich des the ion of new ors to ach igh ion tes .
to his end , ose we ant to ate a tor
by an ion of the ype ( 123 ) ith we ate the ure of ion iv - b by , ned by eds to be zed in its
ing ( 123 ) .
to ply ( 123 ) , ion in rms of ped put ges
to his end ,
i . e . , we eed to set
uld be ted as
if the ors
, hen the est ion of
pan is not ned by ing nal ons nto ach ion .
ead , we eed to ute the mal new in ach tep , ing has not yet hed ion 123 ( if the ncy ill be ble ) .
the ion is ped ter
eps , her ied
in nce , or by ing hen
lls low a ied old .
the ion
tor kes the orm ( 123 ) .
we ude his ion by ing hat in any ses , uch as ass sv nes , or ple nel pca ure ors , we may lly ant to ate ral ors sly .
his ads to ore lex ons , ven in ( 123 ) .
123 ine a ase ere a ain ern ars ice in the ing set , and the sv ion has to ize oth of the ies nly use the per und int its the ent of ach of hem to c :
nel pca toy ple ( see ext ) : nes of ant ure lue for the rst ght ear pal nts ted ith k ( xx; yyy ) = exp ( xxx 123 : 123 ) : the rst two pal nts ( top dle / ght ) ate the ree ers .
nts 123 lit the ers .
nts 123 lit hem ain , nal to the ove its .
to see how the sed ods ork in ice we ran ral toy and eal - rld nts .
in ion vi - a , we ive ing lts for the ach of ing oxi - ate ges ted in ion iv - a .
in ion vi - b , we ent ome nts for the ced set ods bed in ons v - c and v - d .
nel pca ing
123 ) toy les : all nts ted ere ied out ith ian els ( 123 ) , ing ( 123 ) ith the ion eme ven by ( 123 ) .
ver , lar lts ere ned ith ial els .
lab ode for ing nel pca is ble on the web rom
we ted an ial ata set rom ree int ces at ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) ( 123 nts ach ) ith ) , and med nel pca on ian ise ( it ( fig .
ing the ing ors , we ted ear pal nts rom a set of est nts ted rom the ame del , and ted the nts rom ing ers of pal nts .
123 ows hat ing her der nts ads to val of the the nts ove ard eir ive ces .
in a ond ent ( ble i ) , we ted a ata set
ith ero ean and nce
rom 123 ans in in ach ent , by ing rom ach rce 123 nts as a ing set and 123 nts for a est set ( ers of the ans mly sen in ( 123 , 123 ) hen we ied nel pca to the ing set and ted the ons of the nts in the est set .
ith ese , we ied out ing , ing an ate age in est int .
his ure was ted for ent ers of nts in ion , and for ent ues of ( lso sed in the nel ) .
we red the lts ded by our thm to ose of ear pca via the ean red nce of all sed est nts to eir ing ter .
ble i ows the tio of ese es; ere and low , ios ger han one ate hat nel pca med ter han ear pca .
for ost ery ice of
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
ing ans in 123 ( see ext ) .
nce ios ger han one ate how uch ter nel pca did , red to ear pca , for ent ces of the ans ard ion ;
and ent ers of nts sed in ion
nel pca ing by ion rom ons nto the ors of fig .
we ted 123 new nts rom ach ian , ted hem in ure ace by eir rst n = 23; 23; ; 123 ear pal nts , and ted ate ges , own in the per ine res ( top eft : nal ata , top dle : n = 123 , top ght : n = 123 , etc . ) .
ote hat by ing her der pal nts ( i . e . , ing a all n ) , we ove the ise ent in the ero nce the ans .
the wer ine res how how the nal nts ove in the ing .
ike the ing ase in ear pca , ere we ain nes ( see fig .
123 ) , in nel pca ers ink to nts .
ons and int nts for ear pca , sed on the rst pal ent .
, nel pca did ter .
ote hat ing all ten nts , ear pca is ust a sis ion and nce not ise .
the eme ity of nel pca for all is due to the act hat all est nts are in his ase ted ose to the 123 ots in put ace , and ear pca has to ver hem ith ess han 123 ons .
nel pca ves ach int to the ect rce ven hen ing nly a all ber of nts .
to get ome ive ing in a low - nal ase , fig .
123 cts the lts of ing a alf cle and a are in the ane , ing nel pca , a ear der , pal ves , and ear pca .
the pal ves thm ( 123 ) ely tes a rve tur - ing the ure of the ata .
the ata are ted to the est int on a rve ich the thm ies to uct uch hat ach int is the age of all ata nts ing nto it .
it can be own hat
ing in 123 - d ( see ext ) .
ted are the ata set ( all nts ) and its sed ion ( big nts , ing up to lid nes ) .
for ear pca , we sed one ent for ion , as ing two nts , ion is ect and hus oes not ise .
ote hat all hms ept for our ach ave ems in ing the lar ure in the tom ple ( ken rom ( 123 ) ) .
ght nes ing the ter are pal nts , so pal ves are a ion of the ter .
the thm ses a ing ter ich is led ing the ion .
in the ear der thm , a eck ve - yer ork is ned to uce the put ues as uts ( i . e . , it is sed in ive ode ) .
the den nit ons in the ird yer orm a wer - nal ion of the ata , ely ted to pca ( see , for nce , ( 123 ) ) .
ing is one by ate ent ent .
in all hms , ter ues ere ted uch hat the est ble ing ult was ned .
the ure ows hat on the sed are lem , nel pca oes ( ely ) est , wed by pal ves and the ear er; ear pca ils ely .
ver , ote hat all hms ept for nel pca lly ide an cit one - nal ion of the ata , eas nel pca nly des us ith a ans of ing nts to eir sed ons ( in his ase , we sed our nel pca res , and nce ain a
123 ) ten git ing : to est our ach on eal - rld ata , we lso ied the thm to the sps ase of ten its ( e . g . , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) of 123 ing 123 ) .
for ach of the rns and 123 est rns ( ize 123 ten its , we mly ose 123 les rom the ing set and 123 les rom the est set .
we sed the hod of ion iv - b , ith the dth 123 als ice the age of the tas nce
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
ion of ors ( see ext ) .
ted are the 123 row : ent ons for nel pca .
3th tor ( rom eft to ght ) .
rst row : ear pca , ond and ird
in ach ion .
in fig .
123 , we ive two ble ons of the ors und by nel pca , red to ose und by ear pca for the sps set .
the ond row ows the ate ges of the ors
) , wer ght
, und by our ive thm .
in the ird row is the ion ach age is ted as ows : xel - age of the th cal sis tor in put ace nto the ing tor in ure ace ( per eft ) .
in the ear ase , oth ods uld ply eld the ors of ear pca ted in the rst ow; in his nse , hey may be red as zed ors in put ace .
we see hat the rst ors are ost cal ( ept for ary gns ) .
ver , we lso see hat ors in ear pca art to cus on igh - ncy res ady at ler lue ize .
to and his , ote hat in ear pca we nly ave a mum ber of 123 ors , ary to nel pca ich ves us the ber of ing les ( ere 123 ) ble ors .
his lso ins ome of the lts we und hen ork - ing ith the sps set ( igs .
123 and 123 ) .
in ese nts , ear and nel pca ere ned ith the nal ata .
to the est set , we ded
123 ) ive ian ise ith ero ean and ard
123 ) kle ise , ere ach xel is ped to ack or
ite ith ity
for the isy est ets , we ted the ons nto ear and ear nts , and ied out ion for ach ase .
the lts ere red by ing the ean red nce of ach ted git of the isy est set to its nal art .
for the mal ber of nts in ear and nel pca , our ach did ter by a tor of 123 for the ian ise , and 123 for the kle ise ( the mal ber of nts ere 123 in ear pca , and 123 and 123 in nel pca , ely ) .
ing cal ers of nts in oth hms , nel pca mes up to ght mes ter han ear pca .
ver , ote hat nel pca mes ith a her nal ity .
ing up ort tor ion les
as in ion vi - a , we sed the sps ten git ase .
we ted the sv ons ( 123 ) of ten ary ers , ach ned to ate one git rom the
ing of sps ata ( see ext ) .
the eft alf ows : top : the rst nce of ach git in the est set , ond row : the per git ith ive ian ise ( = 123 : 123 ) , ing ve ows : the ion for ear pca ing n = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 nts , and , ast ve ows : the lts of our ach ing the ame ber of nts .
in the ght alf we how the ame but for kle ise ith ity p = 123 : 123 :
we sed the ian nel
, and the ion ues bed
in ons v - c and v - d .
the nal sv tem had on age 123 svs per las - ier .
les ii and iii how the ion ror lts for ion ing the ced set ion ues de - bed in ion v - c , ile ble iv ves lts for ing the ced set ion hod bed in ion v - d , for ing ers of rs ors .
own in ach ine is the ber of ied its for ach gle ier and the ror of the ned 123 - ass ine .
in all rs ems , the mal sv old was ted on the ing set .
for the hod of ion v - c , rss - ans , hat for ach ary ier , we ved ort ors til on age ere ft; for the hod of ion ion v - d , hat we ted ach ion ion ing eps ing the bed ion ure ) .
for rge , i . e . , all ons of the ion ons ity , the acy of the nal tem can be ap -
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
ean red ror of sed ges sus ber of res sed , for nel pca and ear pca .
nel pca its ies and has the ial to ize ore res to ode ure her han ise .
ore , it rms ear pca ing if a tly rge ber of res is sed .
ers of est ors for ach ary zer , and est ror
tes for 123 - ass ion ing the rs hod of ion
ion v - c . 123
top : ers of svs for the nal sv rbf - tem .
tom , rst row : nal sv tem , ith 123 svs on ge;
ing ows : ems ith ing age ers of rs
ors .
in the tem rss - n , ual ons of svs ere ved rom ach zer uch hat on age , n rs ors ere eft
ers of est ors for ach ary zer , and est ror tes for ten - ass ion ing the rs hod of ion v - c . 123 ( ci = =j ij ) : rst row : nal sv tem , ith 123 svs on ge; ing ows : ems ith ing age ers of
rs ors .
in the tem 123 - n , was ted uch hat the age ber of rs ors eft was n ( the ant , ven
in ses , was sen uch hat the ers n ere
ble to ble ii ) .
the lts can be her ved ing the hod of ion v - 123 ( ci = = axj j j i j ) : for
nce , ing out 123 ion ors ( ich is the ame ber hat we get hen ing the ion of all svs in the 123 123 tem ) , his led to an ved ror ate of 23%
hed ely ith oth ues .
in les ii and iii , we see hat val of out 23% of the ort ors ves the ror lly ged .
ing the ers of ort ors her can ead to rge nce ses .
the ced set ion hod , ich is uta - lly and lly ore lex , rms ter in his ion as it is ble to ize ors ent rom the nal ort rns in the ion .
to get a dup by a tor of ten , we ave to use a tem ith 123 rs ors ( rsc - 123 ) .
for the hod in ble iv , acy nly ops ely rom 23% to 23% , ich
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
ete lay of ced set ors ted by the ive ach of ion v - d for n = 123 , ith nts ( top : zer of git 123 , , tom : git 123 ) .
ote hat ive nts ( hly ) ond to ive les in the ion lem .
ber of est ors for ach ary zer , and est ror
tes for ten - ass ion ing the rs ion hod of ion v - d .
rst row : nal sv tem , ith 123 svs on age ( see lso les ii and iii ) ; ing ows : ems ith ing ers of rs ors ( rsc - n nds for n ors ted ) per ary zer ,
ted by ing one - erm ons , ely for
ach zer .
ast two ows : ith a ent bal
ent ent , the lts can be her ved ( see est )
the rst ase by out two ers of ude ) : his led to an ror ate of 23% .
for the red nel , his is ost cal to the nal rs hod , ich ded 23% ( for ial els , the ter hod led to 23% at the ame dup ( 123 ) ) .
ote hat the nal rs hod rts the ond ase any mes to ake ure hat the bal mum of the ost ion is lly und , ich kes it ble hat the nal lts are lar .
lly , fig .
123 ows the rs - 123 ors of the ten ary ers .
as an ide , ote hat ike the ach of ( 123 ) , our thm ces ges ich do ook ful ( i . e . ,
hms ing cer els uct eir ons in rms of ped put is ten own , or too lex to ide any ion out the ion has ted our rts to uce the ity of the ion , zed in his per .
as an eme ase , we ave rst ied how to rox - ( i . e . , how to nd an ate ) , and sed a xed - int ion thm
by a gle
to orm the ask .
is ill ive ith nal ral rks on hat ata ase ( 123 ) .
ver , we can her ove his ult by ing the ond ase of the nal rs thm , ere a bal ent ent is med in the ace ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ( lly ore ive han
in ons ere no ood ate age sts , one can ill uce the ity of ing it as a ser ion ave sed ods for ing the mal nts or by ing the ove age
and for ing up ith ble rns
ing ong the
sch opf et al . : put ace sus ure ace
oth pes of ons are of cal est for ure ace ds; ver , hey lso ead to cal ons .
in his per , we ave red two uch ons , ely , the lem of cal ing via nel pca ion , and the lem of ing up sv ion les .
we ess hem in urn .
nel pca ing : in ing nts on eal - rld ata , we ned lts tly ter han ing ear pca .
our ion of his ing is as ows .
ear pca can act at ost the ity of the ata .
ing a sis orm , all nts her lly ibe the ata .
if the ata are isy , his ies hat a ain ion of the nts ill be ted to the ion of ise .
nel pca , on the her and , ows the ion of up to res , ere the ber of ing les .
gly , nel pca can ide a ger ber of res ing ion out the ure in the ata ( in our nts , we had in ion , if the ure to be ted is ear , hen ear pca ust ily ail , as we ave ted ith
pen ons and ems ude the ice of a ble nel for a ven ise ion lem , bly in ion ith the ion ies of the nel ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) , the ion of the ach to ion , and the son ( and ion ) to ive ear ing ods ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
ing up sv nes : we ave own lly hat our ion hms can be sed to eed up sv nes tly .
ote hat in the ian rbf ase , the ion can ver be as ood as the nal , nce the nel rix
has ull ank ( 123 ) .
as in ( 123 ) , ood rs ion lts ere ned ven ugh the ive ion did not ase to ero ( in our rs ion nts , it was ced by a tor of 123 in the rst ase , ing on how any rs ors ere ed; the bal ent ent ded her tor ree ) .
we ure hat his is due to the ing : in ion , we are not ted in
is the ing ity ion of the rns ( cf . , ( 123 ) ) .
his is ent ith the act hat the nce of a rs sv ier can be ved by ing an mal old
the ous rs ion hod ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) can be sed
for any sv el; the new one is ted to
ver , it is ast , and it led to ble rs ges and an ing ion een ing and rox - ion in ure ces .
it ars ing to sue the ion her his ion uld be ted to orm ore ral pes of ons of sv and nel pca ons by ing use of ans of ble ths .
the rs ion ods , on the her and , are pli - ble for any sv nel .
in our nts , hey led to rse ion tes han rs on; ver , hey are ler and lly ter .
ong the rst two rs ion ods , the one bed in ion v - c . 123 was tly ior at her ns; ver , the one
ven in ion v - c . 123 is lly per nce ike the mer , it oes not ove the svs one at a ime and ore it eed not be ted .
ver , we und hat it can be ved by sly ing ral ors , ing to the ten ary ers in a git
the sed ods are ble to any ure ace thm sed on cer els .
for nce , we uld lso eed up sv ion nes or nel pca ure ors .
ver , we ect her ies to pen up in the ure , as cer nel ods are ing ied in an ing ber of ing and nal ing ems .
the ors uld ike to ank a .
eff for ful
