ing a ain ter ace ( bci ) tem one can ose rom a ety of res hat may be ful for ing ain ity ing a tal ask .
for the ial ase of ing ram ( eeg ) als we ose the age of the ate of the art ure ion hms ive ure ion ( 123 ) and ero - orm ion ( 123 ) ich are sed on the ing of ort tor nes ( svm ) ( 123 ) .
ese hms can ide ore ate ons han tan - ard ter ods for ure ion ( 123 ) .
we apt the ods for the ose of ing eeg han - els .
for a tor ery igm we how hat the ber of sed els can be ced tly out ing the ion ror .
the ing est els ree ell ith the ted ing cal ity rns ing the tal
ore we how how ime ent ask fic for -
ion can be zed .
dex ain ter ace ( bci ) , nel ele - nce , nel ion , phy ( eeg ) , ure nce , ure ion , ive ure ion ( rfe ) , ort tor ine ( svm ) , ero orm ion ( 123 - opt ) .
m ost ain ter ces ( cis ) ake use of
ead to ble oen - ram ( eeg ) als of two or ore ses .
for ome sks the ant ing ons are own , lly hen the sks ise tor ery , e . g . , the ion of imb nts , or the all ity of rge rts of the tex hat urs ing ons or tes of ion and
for the ent of new gms ose ral rre - tes are not own in uch ail , ing mal ing ons for use in cis is ing .
new gms can be - ome ary hen tor tex eas how ons , for the ase of the ion ate of bci ems or for ust lti - ass cis .
if ood ing ons are not own , a ple ach is to use ata rom as any as ble eeg
ipt ved uly 123 , 23; sed rch 123 , 123
his ork was ted in art by the che aft ( dfg ) and in art by the nal ute of lth ( nih ) .
isk tes ing hor .
lal is ith max - nck - tut for cal ics , spe -
str .
123 , gen 123 , any ( e - ail : gen . mpg . de ) .
der and m .
dan are ith ard rls ity gen , ent of ter ing , gen 123 , any ( e - ail :
ger and n .
mer are ith ard rls ity gen , ute of cal ogy and ral ogy , gen 123 , any ( e - ail :
ton and b .
opf are ith max - nck - tut for cal ics , gen 123 , any ( e - ail : son . gen .
tal ect ier 123 / bme . 123
the ion of 123 eeg des sed for ata ion are ked in lid ack les .
the two ing des are ked in
des for nal ion .
the ack of his ap - ach is hat the end to ich ure ion and las - ion hms fit to ise ses ith the ber of ask - ant res , lly hen the tio of ing nts and ber of res is all .
in ion , it is ult to and ich art of the ain tes the ass ele -
we how hat the ion of ing ons can be one tly in the nce of ior dge out the ial dis - ion of ain ity of a tal ask .
lly we apt the ate of the art ure ion ods ero - orm pti - ion ( 123 - opt ) and ive ure ion ( rfe ) to the lem of nel ion and ate the ess of ese ods on the ell own igm of tor ery .
the per is red as ows : ion ii ins the tal tup , the ask , and the sic ata ing .
in ion iii , the ure ion ods and the ion thm are bed .
lts are ven in ion iv and the nal ion des .
ata ion
tal tup and tal ask
we ded eeg als rom ght ned ght ded ale cts ing 123 ver ide des ( see fig .
the nce des ere ned at 123 and 123
123 - 123 / 123 123 eee
eee ons on cal ing , vol .
123 , no .
123 , une 123
two des 123 and 123 cm ral of the ght eye ( eog ) ere sed to ord ble eog cts and eye nks ile two nto - ral and two tal des ere ned to ect ble cle ity ing the ent .
ore ing the ata at 123 hz an log ass ter ith off ies 123 hz and 123 hz was ied .
the cts ere ted in an air at 123 - m nce in ont of a ter een .
ing the tal tup of ( 123 ) the cts ere ked to ine eft sus ght and nts ing ach ial .
ith ery ect , we ded 123 als ing one gle ion .
the tal gth of ach ial was 123 s .
nal ial als for ion ied mly een 123 and 123 s .
no ier ion was med and no als ere ved ing the ata ing at any
ach ial ted ith a ank een .
a all ion oss was yed in the ter of the een rom ond 123 to 123
a cue in the orm of a all row ing to the ght or eft ide was ble for alf a ond ing ith ond 123
in der to oid ent ted als in ter ing ges , nly ata rom nds 123 to 123 of ach ial was red for her sis .
ack was not ded at any ime .
as ler and da lva ave ted ( 123 ) hat ove - ent ted ion of the - thm ( 123 hz ) is not lly ong in cts and ght ven ail for ous ons ( e . g . , use of too ort ial als hat pre - ent a per re - ion ) we med a sis in der to ify and ude cts hat did not how sig -
- ity at all .
for ven of the ght cts the
- and was nly tly ing rom the 123 hz lly ven in the eeg ure .
nly one ect wed ely any ity in his ncy nge but ead a ble ent ted hro - ion in the 123 hz and .
ted to nly the 123 eeg els hat ere ted ver or ose to the tor tex we ted the mum rgy - and ing the lch hod ( 123 ) for ach ect .
his ure ion ted in one ter per ial and nel and tly ted ior dge out the
the ght ata ets ing of the lch - res ere las - ied ith ear vms ( see low ) ing ual del ion for ach ect .
ion ors ere ted by old oss ion ( cv ) .
as for ree cts the pre - sis wed ery oor ror tes ose to nce vel eir ata ets ere ded rom her sis .
ata ing
for the ing ive cts the ded 123 s ows of ach ial ted in a ime ies of 123 ple nts per nel .
we ted an ive ( ar ) del of der 123 to the ime 123 of all 123 els ing ard ard ear
ion ( 123 ) .
the ree ing nts per nel and ial med the new ion of the ata .
the ion of the res did not tly ate ior dge ugh ar els ave lly een sed for tor ted sks ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
ver , hey are not tly ked to the
for all ive ata ets ) and let
let ote the ber of ing ors ( als ) of the ata ote the ata for all ive ata ets ) .
the ing
ata for a ier is ted as tes ned ght and ent .
the rms ion and ure are sed sly .
for by ing the
tes ned eft and ent ,
for the ask sed in
is ned rom a set
ion rom ery int
ure ion and ion ods ure ion hms can be zed as her ter or per ods ( 123 ) .
hey ect or mit ons of the ata ing on a nce ure .
the lem of how to ate the nce of a ure if non - ear ons een res are ent is not ial , es - lly nce the all acy ght not be nic in the ber of res sed .
ome ure ion ods try to ome his lem by ing the ure ion for ups of xed zes ( lus - l ake - way - r rch ) or by ple - ing ing ies ( e . g . , ing ard rch ) ( 123 ) .
nly few hms ike , e . g . , tic hms can ose ups of ary ize ing the ure ion ess .
hey ave lly een sed for the ion of ial res ( 123 ) in bci ons but are lly de -
for the ion of eeg nel ion , it is ary to eat a ain ind of ped res sly : nu - cal ues ing to one and the ame eeg nel ave to be alt ith in a ric way so hat a ial pre - ion of the ion mes ble .
we ted the ate of the art ure ion ods 123 - opt and rfe as ell as the her ion to ent ese fic nts .
the rst two hms are ely ted to vms .
ort tor nes ( vms )
the svm is a ely new ion que vel - ped by nik ( 123 ) ich has own to orm gly in a ber of eal - rld ems , ing bci ( 123 ) .
the ral rom two ses by ing a dea is to ate ata
of a ane
and an set
for his ice , we red ent del ers .
for a ven der , we ted an ar - del to ach eeg nce .
ter per del ion a sup - ort tor ine ( svm ) ith old cv was ned on the nts .
del der 123 ted in the est ean cv ror .
ith the est ble gin , 123 ich art rom ing an ive dea has een own to ide cal ies in
3is x ear ble the gin of a ane is the nce of the hy -
ane to the est int x 123 x .
lal et al . : ort tor nel ion in bci
for ple ( 123 ) )
- orm as in ard vms ( see ,
the ion of his ion lem is lly uch ser han the ion of lem ( 123 ) .
hus , ure ion is one tly .
ely the lem has own to be np - ard but the ors ped an ive hod to ate the ion .
in ase the ion has ess han the red ber of ero ies , the ing res can be ked ing to
( as in one ion tep of rfe ) .
in the nal ion of the hod , the res are lti - ied ith a ing tor ing ach ion .
nce a ing tor is ero , the ing ure is ved .
we apt his hod in the ing way : the ing ors of the fea - res ing to a nel are ted by eir ean .
hus , all res of one nel are her ved ely ( the nel is ved ) or all res ain .
as in the ase has to be ted rom the of svm and rfe , the ter ing ata in ase ior dge is not ble .
ive ure ion ( rfe )
his ure ion hod was sed by yon et al .
( 123 ) and is sed on the ept of gin ion .
the nce of a ion is ned by the nce it has on the gin of a ned svm .
let be the rse of the
hat ond to the est
at ach ion one svm is ned and the res ich are ved ( typ - lly hat is one ure nly ) ; his is ent to ing .
we apt his hod for nel ion in the ing way : let to the ion of the fc and the 123 - opt , we ine for .
at ach it - ion tep we ove the nel ith the est ore .
the has to be ted rom the ing ata , if no ior dge is ble .
ote the res rom nel
for the der of the per we fer to the ted ure ion ods as nel ion ods .
ore , we ill lso fer to the ted rfe as ive nel
ear svm .
for ble ata ets , ack les ced .
the ick nts on the hed nes are led ort ors ( svs ) .
the ion for the ane h can be ten in rms of the svs .
for ore ail see ion iii - a .
rms of ion ity ( 123 ) .
one ant of the thm sts of ing the ing ion lem :
are led ack les and ure hat the lem has a ion in ase the ata is not ear 123 ( see fig .
the gin is ned as in ice , one has to ade - off een a low ing ror , , and a rge gin .
his ade - off is led by the ion ter art of the del ion ure .
if no ior dge is has to be ted rom the ing ata , e . g . , by ing cv .
the lue is lso red to as the dge .
for a led ion ase fer to ( 123 ) .
ing a ood lue for
her ion ( fc )
the fc nes how gly a ure is ted ith
the els ( 123 ) .
for a set
is hen ven by
and the nce
the ore
rly .
the ank of a nel is ply set to the ean ore of the ing
ero - orm ion ( 123 - opt )
ion ror ion
ton et al .
( 123 ) tly ted to ize the
3is the ata ear ble the ack les can ove the ion
ity of the ons .
the ero - orm of a tor v is ual to ber of ero ies of v .
for del ion ses we ted the ion
ror of ers via old cv .
if the ion ror of a nel ion hod had to be ted , a hat ore ted ure was sed .
an ion of his ure is ven in fig
eee ons on cal ing , vol .
123 , no .
123 , une 123
ion of the ure for nel ion and ror ion
ual cv .
in ach old med sed on the ain set of ing of the 123 eeg els .
for ach old
the ole ata set is lit up nto 123 lds ( 123 to 123 ) as for , the nel ion ( cs in fig .
123 ) is nly , ing to a fic , 123 ers is ned on the and ted on .
for ach old ,
123 els , ely , of the ain set of
are ned as ows :
the ing els of the est set of his lts in 123 est ors (
ing the ast tep , the ing est ors are ver - ged ver all lds .
his ads to an ate of the iza - ion ror for ery ber of ted els .
nel ion
we ied the ree nel ion ods fc , rfe , and 123 - opt ced in ion iii to the ive ata ets .
as the ex - tal igm is ell own , we uld ine the re - lts ing eir cal ity .
ore , we ted her the est ked els are ose ted ver or ose to tor eas .
ore we zed if the ber of els can be ced out a oss of acy in rms of cv ror .
3in his ext , est ans ing to the ted ing of hat old .
son of the ree nel ion ods her ore , rfe and 123 - opt lly for ive cts and ged ver the cts .
hod rfe ows the est ion of ber of els for all cts .
ial to the nel ion and lly for ach sub - for ter svm ngs
was ted via old cv rom the ing ata ets . 123
, the ion ter
the ion of the ion ror for all 123 ges of the nel ion 123 was ied out ing ear vms as ers ith ers ils out the old cv ing the ion ure are bed in ion iii - e and fig
the ion lts are ted in fig .
the rst ive ots how the ual ion ror for the ive sub - cts nst the ent ers of els sen by the ree nel ion ods .
the xth lot in the tom ght ner ows the ion ror of the ree ods ged ver the ive cts .
ing the ter for ach ber of els in the ess of nel ion ght ove the acy .
ver the nce of fit -
3in act , ods rfe and 123 - opt orm her a nel val han a
lal et al . : ort tor nel ion in bci
rfe ing of 123 eeg
zed ion ror rve ing a nel ion hod in the nce of ant els .
hen ing els ely the ion ror ses tly til all ant els are ved .
ing ore els lts in an ase of ror .
ted tal igm his can be one out a oss of ion acy .
for ple , ing 123 els lds the ame ror as the ror ned ing the cv ror of 23% all els .
on the ata set of ect can be ced to 23% ing 123 els nly .
it is not ble to est all
ble ons of els to ind the est ion .
in his ght , the 123 han - els ted ver or ose to the tor tex can be red a ery ood ion hat is ose to the mal one .
for ing the all acy of the rfe hod we , hus , ned a las - ier ing ese 123 els .
the ult ged ver the ive cts is ted as a ine in the ast ure .
the age ror ate ( ken ver all cts ) of 23% ing 123 els is ery ose to the ror of the ine ich is 23% .
ble i ins nel ngs , ich are ned by ap - ing ive nel ion to the ata set of ach ect . 123 as the rfe hod has med cf and 123 - opt , the ngs in ble i ere ely ted by rfe .
to ret the ble it is ful to ave a ser ook at fig .
it ows an zed rve for an ate of the ion ror hen ing a nel or ure ion hod .
as we ave lso een in the nts it is ble to uce the ber of els out a oss of acy .
for ach ect we can ain a tic ate on the ber of ant els rom the ion ror ves in fig .
we un - ned one try in ach umn of ble i .
the row ber of hat try is an ate for the ank ion hat des ask ant els rom ask ant nes .
for ple , fig .
123 ows a cal mum of the rfe ner - ion ror rve at 123 els .
hus , the est 123 ted els can be sed out ing the ror ate .
the ons of the 123 els ver or ose to the tor tex ere ked ith a rey und .
ept for ery few of hem , ese els ave a igh ank .
for our of the cts nly few her ( tor ) els ere ked ove the ked mum - ror ons ( see ned nks )
ase ote hat in his tep cv was not ied .
the ing of the 123 eeg els was ted by the rfe hod .
the 123 els ver or ose to tor eas of the tex are ked ith rey und for all ive cts .
ned ank ons ark the ted mum of the rfe ror rve for ery ect rom ich on the ror ate ses tly ( see fig .
123 for the ual ror ves )
rfe and 123 - opt oof to be ble of ing ant els , eas the fc ils for ome cts .
lly for all ers of els rfe is tly ior ver the fc and 123 - opt .
for ger ers of els the nce of 123 - opt is ble to rfe .
as can be een in fig .
123 it is ble to uce the ber of
eeg els tly ing the rfe for the
eee ons on cal ing , vol .
123 , no .
123 , une 123
ion of ask ant ons for cts a , b , d and e ( one ect per umn ) ing ned and nts .
the ore for ach nel was ned by ing the rfe hod and is sed on the ull ion of 123 s .
the top row cts the iew rom ove , the ond and ird row how the tal iew and iew rom the ack .
ase see lso the eft umn of fig .
123 for the ing ing of ect c .
to the ing .
to ify his ion we
els 123 , 123 , and 123 are ant ing
( cid : 123 ) ted the ion ror ing the een tor els and red it to the ror ing the tor els lus 123 , 123 , 123 , and eog .
eed by ing act els the ror uld be ced rom 23% to 23% .
( cid : 123 ) ned an svm sed on ese act els nly .
the nce was oor : nly 23% acy uld be hed in a old cv svm ing . 123
hat ans hat ugh ack was not ded his ect wed ask ant cle ity .
ver his nce was nly ted by his cle ity .
the her our sub - cts did not any the eft / ght sks ith ing
we ude hat the rfe hod was ble of ing lly ful eeg els for the ned eft / ght and igm .
the ion of nel res can ort the sis of bci nts , eal ion rns or els car - ing ing cts and ase the ice of nel sub -
for ion ses we ned a ore ted by rfe to ach nel .
the els low the ned ies of ble i ive a ore of 123
the nes ove the ned ies are ped to the rey lue ale ing to eir ank .
123 and 123 how the ask ant els for the ive cts .
ack ons in oth ots ark els ant for the ion ask eas ite ons ark ant
the dge was tly zed for his est .
his ion was ted by ual ion and ncy sis of the raw eeg nly ery tle cle ity or her rms of cts uld be ted .
ion of ask ant ons for ect c ( top , ont and ack iew ) .
the ost umn ows the res ned by rfe sed on the ete ion of 123 s .
the ing ree mns how the ent of the res ver ime .
the ngs ere ned by ing the rfe hod ely on the ree ter , ing ime ows .
for all cts the ive ons are ted ose to ows a ear and cal con - the tor tex .
ect ion of ant els .
the ond umn of fig .
123 has nal ant els lso ows , hat ect ide the tor rea bly ing rom cle ity ( as sed ove ) .
as the ion ror was mal for the ata of sub - ect we med a ser ion of his ata .
mns 123 to 123 of fig .
123 ize the ial ion of ask fic ion ver ime .
we lit the ing ata nto ree ver - ing ows ach of 123 - s gth .
for ery ime dow , we ied nel ion via rfe ely .
it can be ob - ved hat the ree ing ore rns ary rom dow to dow .
his uld be due to an ble nel ion .
her son ght be hat the ask ted ion ern ges ver ime .
oth ues ill be sed in ure ex -
we ted two ate of the art ure ion hms rfe and 123 - opt as ell as the fc for the ial ase of eeg nel ion for bci ons .
the ods ere ied to the igm of tor ery .
we wed hat oth rfe and 123 - opt are ble of ifi - tly ing the ber of els ded for a ust las - ion out an ase of ror .
in our nts , the fc led to ver ing nel ngs .
the son for the ase in nce of the 123 - opt red to the rfe for ler ers of els ght be hat on age the ive 123 - opt thm uld not de - ase the ber of sen els to ess han 123 ore the ion ged .
his ans hat all the ing han - els ere ked ing to the ion of nly one svm .
to ome his ing of 123 - opt we est the ing ure : els are ced ith 123 - opt til the mum is ned .
in a ext tep , the ing els are ked ing an ive hod ike rfe ead of ing on a gle svm ion .
his ion hod was not in - ted in his per but ill be ect to ure rch .
lal et al . : ort tor nel ion in bci
ugh we did not ate cit ior dge of the tal ask or its ing ral tes , els hat are ell own to be ant ( rom a cal int of iew ) ere tly ted by rfe eas ask ant els ere ded .
ore the hod led the use of lar ity for one ect .
we ced a hod to ize the nel ngs .
his hod can lso be sed to ize the ial nge of ask ant ion ver ime .
the lts est hat the rfe hod can be sed for new tal gms in ure bci lly if no a ori dge out the ion of ant els
the ors uld ike to ank r .
rig for her ess ata ing as ell as b .
tes and rof .
eld for eir elp ith the eeg ngs .
hey end ial nks to g .
kir for ful ion .
