Deep Neural Networks for Acoustic Modeling

1

in Speech Recognition

Geoffrey Hinton, Li Deng, Dong Yu, George Dahl, Abdel-rahman Mohamed, Navdeep Jaitly, Andrew

Senior, Vincent Vanhoucke, Patrick Nguyen, Tara Sainath, and Brian Kingsbury

Abstract

Most current speech recognition systems use hidden Markov models (HMMs) to deal with the temporal variability
of speech and Gaussian mixture models to determine how well each state of each HMM ﬁts a frame or a short window
of frames of coefﬁcients that represents the acoustic input. An alternative way to evaluate the ﬁt is to use a feed-
forward neural network that takes several frames of coefﬁcients as input and produces posterior probabilities over
HMM states as output. Deep neural networks with many hidden layers, that are trained using new methods have been
shown to outperform Gaussian mixture models on a variety of speech recognition benchmarks, sometimes by a large
margin. This paper provides an overview of this progress and represents the shared views of four research groups
who have had recent successes in using deep neural networks for acoustic modeling in speech recognition.

I. INTRODUCTION

New machine learning algorithms can lead to signiﬁcant advances in automatic speech recognition. The biggest

single advance occured nearly four decades ago with the introduction of the Expectation-Maximization (EM)

algorithm for training Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) (see [1], [2] for informative historical reviews of the

introduction of HMMs). With the EM algorithm, it became possible to develop speech recognition systems for

real world tasks using the richness of Gaussian mixture models (GMM) [3] to represent the relationship between

HMM states and the acoustic input. In these systems the acoustic input is typically represented by concatenating

Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefﬁcients (MFCCs) or Perceptual Linear Predictive coefﬁcients (PLPs) [4] computed

from the raw waveform, and their ﬁrst- and second-order temporal differences [5]. This non-adaptive but highly-

engineered pre-processing of the waveform is designed to discard the large amount of information in waveforms that

is considered to be irrelevant for discrimination and to express the remaining information in a form that facilitates

discrimination with GMM-HMMs.

GMMs have a number of advantages that make them suitable for modeling the probability distributions over

vectors of input features that are associated with each state of an HMM. With enough components, they can model

Hinton, Dahl, Mohamed, and Jaitly are with the University of Toronto.

Deng and Yu are with Microsoft Research.

Senior, Vanhoucke and Nguyen are with Google Research.

Sainath and Kingsbury are with IBM Research.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

2

probability distributions to any required level of accuracy and they are fairly easy to ﬁt to data using the EM

algorithm. A huge amount of research has gone into ways of constraining GMMs to increase their evaluation speed

and to optimize the trade-off between their ﬂexibility and the amount of training data available to avoid serious

overﬁtting [6].

The recognition accuracy of a GMM-HMM system can be further improved if it is discriminatively ﬁne-tuned

after it has been generatively trained to maximize its probability of generating the observed data, especially if

the discriminative objective function used for training is closely related to the error rate on phones, words or

sentences[7]. The accuracy can also be improved by augmenting (or concatenating) the input features (e.g., MFCCs)

with “tandem” or bottleneck features generated using neural networks [8], [9]. GMMs are so successful that it is

difﬁcult for any new method to outperform them for acoustic modeling.

Despite all their advantages, GMMs have a serious shortcoming – they are statistically inefﬁcient for modeling

data that lie on or near a non-linear manifold in the data space. For example, modeling the set of points that lie very

close to the surface of a sphere only requires a few parameters using an appropriate model class, but it requires a

very large number of diagonal Gaussians or a fairly large number of full-covariance Gaussians. Speech is produced

by modulating a relatively small number of parameters of a dynamical system [10], [11] and this implies that its true

underlying structure is much lower-dimensional than is immediately apparent in a window that contains hundreds

of coefﬁcients. We believe, therefore, that other types of model may work better than GMMs for acoustic modeling

if they can more effectively exploit information embedded in a large window of frames.

Artiﬁcial neural networks trained by backpropagating error derivatives have the potential to learn much better

models of data that lie on or near a non-linear manifold. In fact two decades ago, researchers achieved some success

using artiﬁcial neural networks with a single layer of non-linear hidden units to predict HMM states from windows

of acoustic coefﬁcients [9]. At that time, however, neither the hardware nor the learning algorithms were adequate

for training neural networks with many hidden layers on large amounts of data and the performance beneﬁts of

using neural networks with a single hidden layer were not sufﬁciently large to seriously challenge GMMs. As a

result, the main practical contribution of neural networks at that time was to provide extra features in tandem or

bottleneck systems.

Over the last few years, advances in both machine learning algorithms and computer hardware have led to more

efﬁcient methods for training deep neural networks (DNNs) that contain many layers of non-linear hidden units and

a very large output layer. The large output layer is required to accommodate the large number of HMM states that

arise when each phone is modelled by a number of different “triphone” HMMs that take into account the phones on

either side. Even when many of the states of these triphone HMMs are tied together, there can be thousands of tied

states. Using the new learning methods, several different research groups have shown that DNNs can outperform

GMMs at acoustic modeling for speech recognition on a variety of datasets including large datasets with large

vocabularies.

This review paper aims to represent the shared views of research groups at the University of Toronto, Microsoft

Research (MSR), Google and IBM Research, who have all had recent successes in using DNNs for acoustic

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

3

modeling. The paper starts by describing the two-stage training procedure that is used for ﬁtting the DNNs. In the

ﬁrst stage, layers of feature detectors are initialized, one layer at a time, by ﬁtting a stack of generative models,

each of which has one layer of latent variables. These generative models are trained without using any information

about the HMM states that the acoustic model will need to discriminate. In the second stage, each generative model

in the stack is used to initialize one layer of hidden units in a DNN and the whole network is then discriminatively

ﬁne-tuned to predict the target HMM states. These targets are obtained by using a baseline GMM-HMM system to

produce a forced alignment.

In this paper we review exploratory experiments on the TIMIT database [12], [13] that were used to demonstrate

the power of this two-stage training procedure for acoustic modeling. The DNNs that worked well on TIMIT were

then applied to ﬁve different large vocabulary, continuous speech recognition tasks by three different research groups

whose results we also summarize. The DNNs worked well on all of these tasks when compared with highly-tuned

GMM-HMM systems and on some of the tasks they outperformed the state-of-the-art by a large margin. We also

describe some other uses of DNNs for acoustic modeling and some variations on the training procedure.

II. TRAINING DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS

A deep neural network (DNN) is a feed-forward, artiﬁcial neural network that has more than one layer of hidden
units between its inputs and its outputs. Each hidden unit, j, typically uses the logistic function1 to map its total

input from the layer below, xj, to the scalar state, yj that it sends to the layer above.

yj = logistic(xj) =

1

1 + e−xj

,

xj = bj +Xi

yiwij,

(1)

where bj is the bias of unit j, i is an index over units in the layer below, and wij is a the weight on a connection

to unit j from unit i in the layer below. For multiclass classiﬁcation, output unit j converts its total input, xj, into

a class probability, pj, by using the “softmax” non-linearity:

where k is an index over all classes.

pj =

,

exp(xj)

Pk exp(xk)

(2)

DNN’s can be discriminatively trained by backpropagating derivatives of a cost function that measures the

discrepancy between the target outputs and the actual outputs produced for each training case[14]. When using the

softmax output function, the natural cost function C is the cross-entropy between the target probabilities d and the

outputs of the softmax, p:

where the target probabilities, typically taking values of one or zero, are the supervised information provided to

C = −Xj

dj log pj,

(3)

train the DNN classiﬁer.

1The closely related hyberbolic tangent is also often used and any function with a well-behaved derivative can be used.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

4

For large training sets, it is typically more efﬁcient to compute the derivatives on a small, random “mini-batch”

of training cases, rather than the whole training set, before updating the weights in proportion to the gradient. This

stochastic gradient descent method can be further improved by using a “momentum” coefﬁcient, 0 < α < 1, that

smooths the gradient computed for mini-batch t, thereby damping oscillations across ravines and speeding progress

down ravines:

The update rule for biases can be derived by treating them as weights on connections coming from units that always

∆wij(t) = α∆wij(t − 1) − ǫ

∂C

∂wij(t)

.

(4)

have a state of 1.

To reduce overﬁtting, large weights can be penalized in proportion to their squared magnitude, or the learning

can simply be terminated at the point at which performance on a held-out validation set starts getting worse[9]. In

DNNs with full connectivity between adjacent layers, the initial weights are given small random values to prevent

all of the hidden units in a layer from getting exactly the same gradient.

DNN’s with many hidden layers are hard to optimize. Gradient descent from a random starting point near the

origin is not the best way to ﬁnd a good set of weights and unless the initial scales of the weights are carefully

chosen [15], the backpropagated gradients will have very different magnitudes in different layers. In addition to

the optimization issues, DNNs may generalize poorly to held-out test data. DNNs with many hidden layers and

many units per layer are very ﬂexible models with a very large number of parameters. This makes them capable of

modeling very complex and highly non-linear relationships between inputs and outputs. This ability is important

for high-quality acoustic modeling, but it also allows them to model spurious regularities that are an accidental

property of the particular examples in the training set, which can lead to severe overﬁtting. Weight penalties or

early-stopping can reduce the overﬁtting but only by removing much of the modeling power. Very large training sets

[16] can reduce overﬁtting whilst preserving modeling power, but only by making training very computationally

expensive. What we need is a better method of using the information in the training set to build multiple layers of

non-linear feature detectors.

A. Generative pre-training

Instead of designing feature detectors to be good for discriminating between classes, we can start by designing

them to be good at modeling the structure in the input data. The idea is to learn one layer of feature detectors at

a time with the states of the feature detectors in one layer acting as the data for training the next layer. After this

generative “pre-training”, the multiple layers of feature detectors can be used as a much better starting point for

a discriminative “ﬁne-tuning” phase during which backpropagation through the DNN slightly adjusts the weights

found in pre-training [17]. Some of the high-level features created by the generative pre-training will be of little

use for discrimination, but others will be far more useful than the raw inputs. The generative pre-training ﬁnds a

region of the weight-space that allows the discriminative ﬁne-tuning to make rapid progress, and it also signiﬁcantly

reduces overﬁtting [18].

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

5

A single layer of feature detectors can be learned by ﬁtting a generative model with one layer of latent variables

to the input data. There are two broad classes of generative model to choose from. A directed model generates

data by ﬁrst choosing the states of the latent variables from a prior distribution and then choosing the states of the

observable variables from their conditional distributions given the latent states. Examples of directed models with

one layer of latent variables are factor analysis, in which the latent variables are drawn from an isotropic Gaussian,

and GMMs, in which they are drawn from a discrete distribution. An undirected model has a very different way of

generating data. Instead of using one set of parameters to deﬁne a prior distribution over the latent variables and a

separate set of parameters to deﬁne the conditional distributions of the observable variables given the values of the

latent variables, an undirected model uses a single set of parameters, W, to deﬁne the joint probability of a vector

of values of the observable variables, v, and a vector of values of the latent variables, h, via an energy function,

E:

p(v, h; W) =

where Z is called the “partition function”.

1
Z

e−E(v,h;W), Z = Xv′,h′

e−E(v′,h′;W),

(5)

If many different latent variables interact non-linearly to generate each data vector, it is difﬁcult to infer the states

of the latent variables from the observed data in a directed model because of a phenomenon known as “explaining

away” [19]. In undirected models, however, inference is easy provided the latent variables do not have edges linking

them. Such a restricted class of undirected models is ideal for layerwise pre-training because each layer will have

an easy inference procedure.

We start by describing an approximate learning algorithm for a restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) which

consists of a layer of stochastic binary “visible” units that represent binary input data connected to a layer of

stochastic binary hidden units that learn to model signiﬁcant non-independencies between the visible units [20]. There

are undirected connections between visible and hidden units but no visible-visible or hidden-hidden connections.

An RBM is a type of Markov Random Field (MRF) but differs from most MRF’s in several ways: It has a bipartite

connectivity graph; it does not usually share weights between different units; and a subset of the variables are

unobserved, even during training.

B. An efﬁcient learning procedure for RBMs

A joint conﬁguration, (v, h) of the visible and hidden units of an RBM has an energy given by:

vihjwij

(6)

E(v, h) = − Xi∈visible

aivi − Xj∈hidden

bjhj −Xi,j

where vi, hj are the binary states of visible unit i and hidden unit j, ai, bj are their biases and wij is the weight

between them. The network assigns a probability to every possible pair of a visible and a hidden vector via this

energy function as in Eqn. (5) and the probability that the network assigns to a visible vector, v, is given by

summing over all possible hidden vectors:

April 27, 2012

p(v) =

1

Z Xh

e−E(v,h)

(7)

DRAFT

The derivative of the log probability of a training set with respect to a weight is surprisingly simple:

6

(8)

1
N

∂ log p(vn)

∂wij

=<vihj>data − <vihj>model

n=N

Xn=1

where N is the size of the training set and the angle brackets are used to denote expectations under the distribution

speciﬁed by the subscript that follows. The simple derivative in Eqn.(8) leads to a very simple learning rule for

performing stochastic steepest ascent in the log probability of the training data:

∆wij = ǫ(<vihj>data − <vihj>model)

(9)

where ǫ is a learning rate.

The absence of direct connections between hidden units in an RBM makes it is very easy to get an unbiased

sample of <vihj>data. Given a randomly selected training case, v, the binary state, hj, of each hidden unit, j, is

set to 1 with probability

and vihj is then an unbiased sample. The absence of direct connections between visible units in an RBM makes

p(hj = 1 | v) = logistic(bj +Xi

viwij)

(10)

it very easy to get an unbiased sample of the state of a visible unit, given a hidden vector

p(vi = 1 | h) = logistic(ai +Xj

hjwij).

(11)

Getting an unbiased sample of < vihj >model, however, is much more difﬁcult. It can be done by starting at

any random state of the visible units and performing alternating Gibbs sampling for a very long time. Alternating

Gibbs sampling consists of updating all of the hidden units in parallel using Eqn.(10) followed by updating all of

the visible units in parallel using Eqn.(11).

A much faster learning procedure called “contrastive divergence” (CD) was proposed in [20]. This starts by

setting the states of the visible units to a training vector. Then the binary states of the hidden units are all computed

in parallel using Eqn.(10). Once binary states have been chosen for the hidden units, a “reconstruction” is produced

by setting each vi to 1 with a probability given by Eqn.(11). Finally, the states of the hidden units are updated

again. The change in a weight is then given by

∆wij = ǫ(<vihj>data − <vihj>recon)

(12)

A simpliﬁed version of the same learning rule that uses the states of individual units instead of pairwise products

is used for the biases.

Contrastive divergence works well even though it is only crudely approximating the gradient of the log probability

of the training data [20]. RBMs learn better generative models if more steps of alternating Gibbs sampling are used

before collecting the statistics for the second term in the learning rule, but for the purposes of pre-training feature

detectors, more alternations are generally of little value and all the results reviewed here were obtained using

CD1 which does a single full step of alternating Gibbs sampling after the initial update of the hidden units. To
suppress noise in the learning, the real-valued probabilities rather than binary samples are generally used for the

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

reconstructions and the subsequent states of the hidden units, but it is important to use sampled binary values for the

ﬁrst computation of the hidden states because the sampling noise acts as a very effective regularizer that prevents

7

overﬁtting [21].

C. Modeling real-valued data

Real-valued data, such as MFCCs, are more naturally modeled by linear variables with Gaussian noise and the

RBM energy function can be modiﬁed to accommodate such variables, giving a Gaussian-Bernoulli RBM (GRBM):

E(v, h) = Xi∈vis

(vi − ai)2

2σ2
i

− Xj∈hid

bjhj −Xi,j

where σi is the standard deviation of the Gaussian noise for visible unit i.

The two conditional distributions required for CD1 learning are:

vi
σi

hjwij

(13)

(14)

(15)

p(hj|v) = logistic bj +Xi
p(vi|h) = N 
ai + σiXj

vi
σi

wij!
i


hjwij, σ2

where N (µ, σ2) is a Gaussian. Learning the standard deviations of a GRBM is problematic for reasons described

in [21], so for pre-training using CD1, the data are normalized so that each coefﬁcient has zero mean and unit
variance, the standard deviations are set to 1 when computing p(v|h), and no noise is added to the reconstructions.

This avoids the issue of deciding the right noise level.

D. Stacking RBMs to make a deep belief network

After training an RBM on the data, the inferred states of the hidden units can be used as data for training

another RBM that learns to model the signiﬁcant dependencies between the hidden units of the ﬁrst RBM. This

can be repeated as many times as desired to produce many layers of non-linear feature detectors that represent

progressively more complex statistical structure in the data. The RBMs in a stack can be combined in a surprising

way to produce a single, multi-layer generative model called a deep belief net (DBN) [22]. Even though each RBM
is an undirected model, the DBN 2 formed by the whole stack is a hybrid generative model whose top two layers

are undirected (they are the ﬁnal RBM in the stack) but whose lower layers have top-down, directed connections

(see ﬁgure 1).

To understand how RBMs are composed into a DBN it is helpful to rewrite Eqn.(7) and to make explicit the

dependence on W:

p(v; W) =Xh

p(h; W)p(v|h; W),

(16)

2Not to be confused with a Dynamic Bayesian Net which is a type of directed model of temporal data that unfortunately has the same

acronym.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

8

RBM

DBN

RBM

copy

W
3

GRBM

copy

W

2

W
1

W
3

W

2

W
1

DBN-DNN

softmax

4(cid:32)W

0

T

W
3

T

W

2

T

W
1

Fig. 1.

The sequence of operations used to create a DBN with three hidden layers and to convert it to a pre-trained DBN-DNN. First a

GRBM is trained to model a window of frames of real-valued acoustic coefﬁcients. Then the states of the binary hidden units of the GRBM

are used as data for training an RBM. This is repeated to create as many hidden layers as desired. Then the stack of RBMs is converted

to a single generative model, a DBN, by replacing the undirected connections of the lower level RBMs by top-down, directed connections.

Finally, a pre-trained DBN-DNN is created by adding a “softmax” output layer that contains one unit for each possible state of each HMM.

The DBN-DNN is then discriminatively trained to predict the HMM state corresponding to the central frame of the input window in a forced

alignment.

where p(h; W) is deﬁned as in Eqn.(7) but with the roles of the visible and hidden units reversed. Now it is

clear that the model can be improved by holding p(v|h; W) ﬁxed after training the RBM, but replacing the prior

over hidden vectors p(h; W) by a better prior, i.e. a prior that is closer to the aggregated posterior over hidden

vectors that can be sampled by ﬁrst picking a training case and then inferring a hidden vector using Eqn.(14). This

aggregated posterior is exactly what the next RBM in the stack is trained to model.

As shown in [22], there is a series of variational bounds on the log probability of the training data, and furthermore,

each time a new RBM is added to the stack, the variational bound on the new and deeper DBN is better than the

previous variational bound, provided the new RBM is initialized and learned in the right way. While the existence

of a bound that keeps improving is mathematically reassuring, it does not answer the practical issue, addressed in

this review paper, of whether the learned feature detectors are useful for discrimination on a task that is unknown

while training the DBN. Nor does it guarantee that anything improves when we use efﬁcient short-cuts such as

CD1 training of the RBMs.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

9

One very nice property of a DBN that distinguishes it from other multilayer, directed, non-linear generative

models, is that it is possible to infer the states of the layers of hidden units in a single forward pass. This inference,

which is used in deriving the variational bound, is not exactly correct but it is fairly accurate. So after learning a

DBN by training a stack of RBMs, we can jettison the whole probabilistic framework and simply use the generative

weights in the reverse direction as a way of initializing all the feature detecting layers of a deterministic feed-forward
DNN. We then just add a ﬁnal softmax layer and train the whole DNN discriminatively3.

E. Interfacing a DNN with an HMM

After

it

has

been

discriminatively

ﬁne-tuned,

a DNN outputs

probabilities

of

the

form

p(HM M state|AcousticInput). But to compute a Viterbi alignment or to run the forward-backward algorithm

within the HMM framework we require the likelihood p(AcousticInput|HM M state). The posterior probabilities

that the DNN outputs can be converted into the scaled likelihood by dividing them by the frequencies of the

HMM-states in the forced alignment that is used for ﬁne-tuning the DNN [9]. All of the likelihoods produced in

this way are scaled by the same unknown factor of p(AcousticInput), but this has no effect on the alignment.

Although this conversion appears to have little effect on some recognition tasks, it can be important for tasks

where training labels are highly unbalanced (e.g., with many frames of silences).

III. PHONETIC CLASSIFICATION AND RECOGNITION ON TIMIT

The TIMIT dataset provides a simple and convenient way of testing new approaches to speech recognition.

The training set is small enough to make it feasible to try many variations of a new method and many existing

techniques have already been benchmarked on the core test set so it is easy to see if a new approach is promising

by comparing it with existing techniques that have been implemented by their proponents [23]. Experience has

shown that performance improvements on TIMIT do not necessarily translate into performance improvements on

large vocabulary tasks with less controlled recording conditions and much more training data. Nevertheless, TIMIT

provides a good starting point for developing a new approach, especially one that requires a challenging amount of

computation.

Mohamed et. al. [12] showed that a DBN-DNN acoustic model outperformed the best published recognition

results on TIMIT at about the same time as Sainath et. al. [23] achieved a similar improvement on TIMIT by

applying state-of-the-art techniques developed for large vocabulary recognition. Subsequent work combined the

two approaches by using state-of-the-art, discriminatively trained (DT) speaker-dependent features as input to the

DBN-DNN [24], but this produced little further improvement, probably because the hidden layers of the DBN-DNN

were already doing quite a good job of progressively eliminating speaker differences [25].

The DBN-DNNs that worked best on the TIMIT data formed the starting point for subsequent experiments

on much more challenging, large vocabulary tasks that were too computationally intensive to allow extensive

3Unfortunately, a DNN that is pre-trained generatively as a DBN is often still called a DBN in the literature. For clarity we call it a DBN-DNN.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

Comparisons among the reported speaker-independent phonetic recognition accuracy results on TIMIT core test set with 192 sentences

TABLE I

10

Method

CD-HMM [26]

Augmented conditional Random Fields [26]

Randomly initialized recurrent Neural Nets [27]

Bayesian Triphone GMM-HMM [28]

Monophone HTMs [29]

Heterogeneous Classiﬁers [30]

Monophone randomly initialized DNNs (6 layers)[13]

Monophone DBN-DNNs (6 layers) [13]

Monophone DBN-DNNs with MMI training [31]

Triphone GMM-HMMs discriminatively trained w/ BMMI [32]

Monophone DBN-DNNs on fbank (8 layers) [13]

Monophone mcRBM-DBN-DNNs on fbank (5 layers) [33]

Monophone convolutional DNNs on fbank (3 layers) [34]

PER

27.3%

26.6%

26.1%

25.6%

24.8%

24.4%

23.4%

22.4%

22.1%

21.7%

20.7%

20.5%

20.0%

exploration of variations in the architecture of the neural network, the representation of the acoustic input or the

training procedure.

For simplicity, all hidden layers always had the same size, but even with this constraint it was impossible to

train all possible combinations of number of hidden layers [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8], number of units per layer [512,

1024, 2048, 3072] and number of frames of acoustic data in the input layer [7, 11, 15, 17, 27, 37]. Fortunately,

the performance of the networks on the TIMIT core test set was fairly insensitive to the precise details of the

architecture and the results in [13] suggest that any combination of the numbers in boldface probably has an error

rate within about 2% of the very best combination. This robustness is crucial for methods such as DBN-DNNs

that have a lot of tuneable meta-parameters. Our consistent ﬁnding is that multiple hidden layers always worked

better than one hidden layer and, with multiple hidden layers, pre-training always improved the results on both the

development and test sets in the TIMIT task. Details of the learning rates, stopping criteria, momentum, L2 weight

penalties and mini-batch size for both the pre-training and ﬁne-tuning are given in [13].

Table I compares DBN-DNNs with a variety of other methods on the TIMIT core test set. For each type of

DBN-DNN the architecture that performed best on the development set is reported. All methods use MFCCs as

inputs except for the three marked “fbank” that use log Mel-scale ﬁlter-bank outputs.

A. Pre-processing the waveform for deep neural networks

State-of-the-art ASR systems do not use ﬁlter-bank coefﬁcients as the input representation because they are

strongly correlated so modeling them well requires either full covariance Gaussians or a huge number of diagonal

Gaussians. MFCCs offer a more suitable alternative as their individual components are roughly independent so they

are much easier to model using a mixture of diagonal covariance Gaussians. DBN-DNNs do not require uncorrelated

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

11

data and, on the TIMIT database, the work reported in [13] showed that the best performing DBN-DNNs trained

with ﬁlter-bank features had a phone error rate 1.7% lower than the best performing DBN-DNNs trained with

MFCCs (see Table I).

B. Fine-tuning DBN-DNNs to optimize mutual information

In the experiments using TIMIT discussed above, the DNNs were ﬁne-tuned to optimize the per frame cross-

entropy between the target HMM state and the predictions. The transition parameters and language model scores

were obtained from an HMM-like approach and were trained independently of the DNN weights. However, it has

long been known that sequence classiﬁcation criteria, which are more directly correlated with the overall word or

phone error rate, can be very helpful in improving recognition accuracy [7], [35] and the beneﬁt of using such

sequence classiﬁcation criteria with shallow neural networks has already been shown by [36], [37], [38]. In the more

recent work reported in [31], one popular type of sequence classiﬁcation criterion, maximum mutual information

or MMI, proposed as early as 1986 [7], was successfully applied to learn DBN-DNN weights for the TIMIT phone

recognition task. MMI optimizes the conditional probability p(l1:T |v1:T ) of the whole sequence of labels, l1:T , with
length T, given the whole visible feature utterance v1:T , or equivalently the hidden feature sequence h1:T extracted
by the DNN:

p(l1:T |v1:T ) = p(l1:T |h1:T ) =

exp(PT

t=1 γijφij(lt−1, lt) +PT

Z(h1:T )

t=1PD

d=1 λlt,dhtd)

,

(17)

where the transition feature φij(lt−1, lt) takes on a value of one if lt−1 = i and lt = j, and otherwise takes on
a value of zero, where γij is the parameter associated with this transition feature, htd is the d-th dimension of

the hidden unit value at the t-th frame at the ﬁnal layer of the DNN, and where D is the number of units in the

ﬁnal hidden layer. Note the objective function of Eqn.(17) derived from mutual information [35] is the same as

the conditional likelihood associated with a specialized linear-chain conditional random ﬁeld. Here, it is the top

most layer of the DNN below the softmax layer, not the raw speech coefﬁcients of MFCC or PLP, that provides

“features” to the conditional random ﬁeld.

To optimize the log conditional probability p(ln

1:T |vn

1:T ) of the n-th utterance, we take the gradient over the

activation parameters λkd, transition parameters γij, and the lower-layer weights of the DNN, wij, according to

=

T

Xt=1

(δ(ln

t = k) − p(ln

t = k|vn

1:T ))hn

td

=

[δ(ln

t−1 = i, ln

t = j) − p(ln

t−1 = i, ln

t = j|vn

1:T )]

∂ log p(ln

1:T |vn

1:T )

∂λkd

1:T |vn

1:T )

∂ log p(ln
∂γij

T

Xt=1
Xt=1

T

(18)

(19)

(20)

1:T |vn

1:T )

∂ log p(ln
∂wij

=

[λltd −

p(ln

t = k|vn

1:T )λkd] × hn

td(1 − hn

td)xn

ti

K

Xk=1

Note that the gradient ∂ log p(ln
∂wij
1:T ), vs. δ(ln

t = k) − p(ln

t = k|vn

1:T |vn

k|vn

1:T )

t ) in the frame-based training algorithm.

above can be viewed as back-propagating the error δ(ln

t = k) − p(ln

t =

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

12

In implementing the above learning algorithm for a DBN-DNN, the DNN weights can ﬁrst be ﬁne-tuned to

optimize the per frame cross entropy. The transition parameters can be initialized from the combination of the

HMM transition matrices and the “phone language” model scores, and can be further optimized by tuning the

transition features while ﬁxing the DNN weights before the joint optimization. Using the joint optimization with

careful scheduling, we observe that the sequential MMI training can outperform the frame-level training by about

5% relative within the same system in the same laboratory.

C. Convolutional DNNs for phone classiﬁcation and recognition

All

the previously cited work reported phone recognition results on the TIMIT database. In recognition

experiments, the input is the acoustic input for the whole utterance while the output is the spoken phonetic sequence.

A decoding process using a phone language model is used to produce this output sequence. Phonetic classiﬁcation

is a different task where the acoustic input has already been labeled with the correct boundaries between different

phonetic units and the goal is to classify these phones conditioned on the given boundaries. In [39] convolutional

DBN-DNNs were introduced and successfully applied to various audio tasks including phone classiﬁcation on the

TIMIT database. In this model, the RBM was made convolutional in time by sharing weights between hidden

units that detect the same feature at different times. A max-pooling operation was then performed which takes the

maximal activation over a pool of adjacent hidden units that share the same weights but apply them at different

times. This yields some temporal invariance.

Although convolutional models along the temporal dimension achieved good classiﬁcation results [39], applying

them to phone recognition is not straightforward. This is because temporal variations in speech can be partially

handled by the dynamic programing procedure in the HMM component and those aspects of temporal variation that

cannot be adequately handled by the HMM can be addressed more explicitly and effectively by hidden trajectory

models [40].

The work reported in [34] applied local convolutional ﬁlters with max-pooling to the frequency rather than

time dimension of the spectrogram. Sharing-weights and pooling over frequency was motivated by the shifts in

formant frequencies caused by speaker variations. It provides some speaker invariance while also offering noise

robustness due to the band-limited nature of the ﬁlters. [34] only used weight-sharing and max-pooling across

nearby frequencies because, unlike features that occur at different positions in images, acoustic features occuring

at very different frequencies are very different.

D. A summary of the differences between DNNs and GMMs

Here we summarize the main differences between the DNNs and GMMs used in the TIMIT experiments described

so far in this paper. First, one major element of the DBN-DNN, the RBM which serves as the building block for

pre-training, is an instance of “product of experts” [20], in contrast to mixture models that are a “sum of experts”.
4. Mixture models with a large number of components use their parameters inefﬁciently because each parameter

4Product models have only very recently been explored in speech processing; e.g., [41].

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

13

only applies to a very small fraction of the data whereas each parameter of a product model is constrained by a

large fraction of the data. Second, while both DNNs and GMMs are nonlinear models, the nature of the nonlinearity

is very different. Third, DNNs are good at exploiting multiple frames of input coefﬁcients whereas GMMs that

use diagonal covariance matrices beneﬁt much less from multiple frames because they require decorrelated inputs.

Finally, DNNs are learned using stochastic gradient descent, while GMMs are learned using the EM algorithm or

its extensions [35] which makes GMM learning much easier to parallelize on a cluster machine.

IV. COMPARING DBN-DNNS WITH GMMS FOR LARGE-VOCABULARY SPEECH RECOGNITION

The success of DBN-DNNs on TIMIT tasks starting in 2009 motivated more ambitious experiments with much

larger vocabularies and more varied speaking styles. In this section, we review experiments by three different speech

groups on ﬁve different benchmark tasks for large vocabulary speech recognition. To make DBN-DNNs work really

well on large vocabulary tasks it is important to replace the monophone HMMs used for TIMIT (and also for

early neural network/HMM hybrid systems) with triphone HMMs that have many thousands of tied states [42].

Predicting these context-dependent states provides several advantages over monophone targets. They supply more

bits of information per frame in the labels. They also make it possible to use a more powerful triphone HMM

decoder and to exploit the sensible classes discovered by the decision tree clustering that is used to tie the states of

different triphone HMMs. Using context-dependent HMM states, it is possible to outperform state-of-the-art BMMI

trained GMM-HMM systems with a two-hidden-layer neural network without using any pre-training [43], though

using more hidden layers and pre-training works even better.

A. Bing-Voice-Search speech recognition task

The ﬁrst successful use of acoustic models based on DBN-DNNs for a large vocabulary task used data collected

from the Bing mobile voice search application (BMVS). The task used 24 hours of training data with a high degree

of acoustic variability caused by noise, music, side-speech, accents, sloppy pronunciation, hesitation, repetition,

interruptions, and mobile phone differences. The results reported in [42] demonstrated that the best DNN-HMM

acoustic model trained with context-dependent states as targets achieved a sentence accuracy of 69.6% on the test

set, compared with 63.8% for a strong, MPE trained GMM-HMM baseline.

The DBN-DNN used in the experiments was based on one of the DBN-DNNs that worked well for the TIMIT

task. It used ﬁve pre-trained layers of hidden units with 2,048 units per layer and was trained to classify the central

frame of an 11 frame acoustic context window using 761 possible context-dependent states as targets. In addition

to demonstrating that a DBN-DNN could provide gains on a large vocabulary task, several other important issues

were explicitly investigated in [42]. It was found that using tied triphone context-dependent state targets was crucial

and clearly superior to using monophone state targets, even when the latter were derived from the same forced

alignment with the same baseline. It was also conﬁrmed that the lower the error rate of the system used during forced

alignment to generate frame level training labels for the neural net, the lower the error rate of the ﬁnal neural-net

based system. This effect was consistent across all the alignments they tried, including monophone alignments,

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

14

alignments from maximum likelihood trained GMM-HMM systems, and alignments from discriminatively trained

GMM-HMM systems.

Further work after that of [42] extended the DNN-HMM acoustic model from 24 hours of training data to 48

hours, and explored the respective roles of pre-training and ﬁne-tuning the DBN-DNN [44]. As expected, pre-training

is helpful in training the DBN-DNN because it initializes the DBN-DNN weights to a point in the weight-space

from which ﬁne-tuning is highly effective. However, a moderate increase of the amount of unlabeled pre-training

data has an insigniﬁcant effect on the ﬁnal recognition results (69.6% to 69.8%), as long as the original training set

is fairly large. By contrast, the same amount of additional labeled ﬁne-tuning training data signiﬁcantly improves

the performance of the DNN-HMMs (accuracy from 69.6% to 71.7%).

B. Switchboard speech recognition task

The DNN-HMM training recipe developed for the Bing voice search data was applied unaltered to the Switchboard

speech recognition task [43] to conﬁrm the suitability of DNN-HMM acoustic models for large vocabulary tasks.

Before this work, DNN-HMM acoustic models had only been trained with up to 48 hours of data [44] and hundreds

of tied triphone states as targets, whereas this work used over 300 hours of training data and thousands of tied

triphone states as targets. Furthermore, Switchboard is a publicly available speech-to-text transcription benchmark

task that allows much more rigorous comparisons among techniques.

The baseline GMM-HMM system on the Switchboard task was trained using the standard 309-hour Switchboard-I

training set. 13-dimensional PLP features with windowed mean-variance normalization were concatenated with up

to third-order derivatives and reduced to 39 dimensions by HDLA, a form of linear discriminant analysis (LDA).

The speaker-independent crossword triphones used the common left-to-right 3-state topology and shared 9304 tied

states.

The baseline GMM-HMM system had a mixture of 40 Gaussians per (tied) HMM state that were ﬁrst trained

generatively to optimize a maximum likelihood (ML) criterion and then reﬁned discriminatively to optimize a

boosted maximum-mutual-information (BMMI) criterion. A seven-hidden-layer DBN-DNN with 2048 units in each

layer and full connectivity between adjacent layers replaced the GMM in the acoustic model. The trigram language

model, used for both systems, was trained on the training transcripts of the 2000-hours of the Fisher corpus and

interpolated with a trigram model trained on written text.

The primary test set is the FSH portion of the 6.3-hour Spring 2003 NIST rich transcription set (RT03S). Table

II extracted from the literature shows a summary of the core results. Using a DNN reduced the word-error rate

(WER) from the 27.4% of the baseline GMM-HMM (trained with BMMI) to 18.5% – a 33% relative reduction.

The DNN-HMM system trained on 309 hours performs as well as combining several speaker-adaptive, multi-pass

systems which use Vocal Tract Length Normalization (VTLN) and nearly seven times as much acoustic training

data (the 2000h Fisher corpus) (18.6%, last row).

Detailed experiments [43] on the Switchboard task conﬁrmed that the remarkable accuracy gains from the DNN-

HMM acoustic model are due to the direct modeling of tied triphone states using the DBN-DNN, the effective

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

TABLE II

Comparing ﬁve different DBN-DNN acoustic models with two strong GMM-HMM baseline systems that are discriminatively trained (DT).

Speaker-independent (SI) training on 309 hours of data and single-pass decoding were used for all models except for the GMM-HMM system

shown on the last row which used speaker adaptive (SA) training with 2000 hours of data and multi-pass decoding including hypotheses

combination. In the table, “40 mix” means a mixture of 40 Gaussians per HMM state and “15.2 nz” means 15.2 million, non-zero weights.

Word-error rates (WER) in % are shown for two separate test sets, Hub500-SWB and RT03S-FSH.

15

modeling

technique

#params

WER

[106] Hub5’00-SWBRT03S-FSH

GMM, 40 mix DT 309h SI

NN 1 hidden-layer×4634 units

+ 2×5 neighboring frames

29.4

43.6

45.1

DBN-DNN 7 hidden layers×2048 units 45.1

+ updated state alignment

+ sparsiﬁcation

GMM 72 mix DT 2000h SA

45.1

15.2 nz

102.4

23.6

26.0

22.4

17.1

16.4

16.1

17.1

27.4

29.4

25.7

19.6

18.6

18.5

18.6

exploitation of neighboring frames by the DBN-DNN, and the strong modeling power of deeper networks, as was

discovered in the Bing voice search task [44], [42]. Pre-training the DBN-DNN leads to the best results but it is

not critical: For this task, it provides an absolute WER reduction of less than 1% and this gain is even smaller

when using ﬁve or more hidden layers. For under-resourced languages that have smaller amounts of labeled data,

pre-training is likely to be far more helpful.

Further study [45] suggests that feature-engineering techniques such as HLDA and VTLN, commonly used in

GMM-HMMs, are more helpful for shallow neural nets than for DBN-DNNs, presumably because DBN-DNNs are

able to learn appropriate features in their lower layers.

C. Google Voice Input speech recognition task

Google Voice Input transcribes voice search queries, short messages, emails and user actions from mobile devices.

This is a large vocabulary task that uses a language model designed for a mixture of search queries and dictation.

Google’s full-blown model for this task, which was built from a very large corpus, uses a speaker-independent

GMM-HMM model composed of context dependent cross-word triphone HMMs that have a left-to-right, three-

state topology. This model has a total of 7969 senone states and uses as acoustic input PLP features that have been

transformed by LDA. Semi-Tied Covariances (STC) are used in the GMMs to model the LDA transformed features

and BMMI[46] was used to train the model discriminatively.

Jaitly et. al. [47] used this model to obtain approximately 5,870 hours of aligned training data for a DBN-DNN

acoustic model that predicts the 7,969 HMM state posteriors from the acoustic input. The DBN-DNN was loosely

based on one of the DBN-DNNs used for the TIMIT task. It had four hidden layers with 2,560 fully connected

units per layer and a ﬁnal “softmax” layer with 7,969 alternative states. Its input was 11 contiguous frames of 40

log ﬁlter-bank outputs with no temporal derivatives. Each DBN-DNN layer was pre-trained for one epoch as an

RBM and then the resulting DNN was discriminatively ﬁne-tuned for one epoch. Weights with magnitudes below

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

16

a threshold were then permanently set to zero before a further quarter epoch of training. One third of the weights

in the ﬁnal network were zero. In addition to the DBN-DNN training, sequence level discriminative ﬁne-tuning

of the neural network was performed using MMI, similar to the method proposed in [37]. Model combination

was then used to combine results from the GMM-HMM system with the DNN-HMM hybrid, using the SCARF

framework [48]. Viterbi decoding was done using the Google system [49] with modiﬁcations to compute the scaled

log likelihoods from the estimates of the posterior probabilities and the state priors. Unlike the other systems, it was

observed that for Voice Input it was essential to smooth the estimated priors for good performance. This smoothing

of the priors was performed by rescaling the log priors with a multiplier that was chosen by using a grid search to

ﬁnd a joint optimum of the language model weight, the word insertion penalty and the smoothing factor.

On a test set of anonymized utterances from the live Voice Input system, the DBN-DNN-based system achieved

a word error rate of 12.3% — a 23% relative reduction compared to the best GMM-based system for this task.

MMI sequence discriminative training gave an error rate of 12.2% and model combination with the GMM system

11.8%.

D. YouTube speech recognition task

In this task, the goal is to transcribe Youtube data. Unlike the mobile voice input applications described above,

this application does not have a strong language model to constrain the interpretation of the acoustic information

so good discrimination requires an accurate acoustic model.

Google’s full-blown baseline, built with a much larger training set, was used to create approximately 1400 hours

of aligned training data. This was used to create a new baseline system for which the input was 9 frames of MFCCs

that were transformed by LDA. Speaker Adaptive Training was performed, and decision tree clustering was used to

obtain 17,552 triphone states. Semi-tied covariances were used in the GMMs to model the features. The acoustic

models were further improved with BMMI. During decoding, feature space Maximum Likelihood Linear Regression

(fMLLR) and Maximum Likelihood Linear Regression (MLLR) transforms were applied.

The acoustic data used for training the DBN-DNN acoustic model were the fMLLR transformed features. The

large number of HMM states added signiﬁcantly to the computational burden, since most of the computation is

done at the output layer. To reduce this burden, the DNN used only four hidden layers with 2000 units in the ﬁrst

hidden layer and only 1000 in each of the layers above.

About ten epochs of training were performed on this data before sequence level training and model combination.

The DBN-DNN gave an absolute improvement of 4.7% over the baseline system’s WER of 52.3%. Sequence level

ﬁne-tuning of the DBN-DNN further improved results by 0.5% and model combination produced an additional gain

of 0.9%.

E. English-Broadcast-News speech recognition task

DNNs have also been successfully applied to an English broadcast news task. Since a GMM-HMM baseline creates

the initial training labels for the DNN, it is important to have a good baseline system. All GMM-HMM systems

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

A comparison of the Percentage Word Error Rates using DNN-HMMs and GMM-HMMs on ﬁve different large vocabulary tasks.

TABLE III

17

task

hours of

DNN-HMM GMM-HMM

GMM-HMM

training data

with same data

with more data

Switchboard (test set 1)

Switchboard (test set 2)

English Broadcast News

Bing Voice Search

(Sentence error rates)

Google Voice Input

Youtube

309

309

50

24

5,870

1,400

18.5

16.1

17.5

30.4

12.3

47.6

27.4

23.6

18.8

36.2

52.3

18.6 (2000 hrs)

17.1 (2000 hrs)

16.0 (>>5,870hrs)

created at IBM use the following recipe to produce a state-of-the-art baseline system. First speaker-independent

(SI) features are created, followed by speaker-adaptively trained (SAT) and discriminatively trained (DT) features.

Speciﬁcally, given initial PLP features, a set of SI features are created using Linear Discriminative Analysis (LDA).

Further processing of LDA features is performed to create SAT features using vocal tract length normalization

(VTLN) followed by feature space Maximum Likelihood Linear Regression (fMLLR). Finally, feature and model-

space discriminative training is applied using the the Boosted Maximum Mutual Information (BMMI) or Minimum

Phone Error (MPE) criterion.

Using alignments from a baseline system, [32] trained a DBN-DNN acoustic model on 50 hours of data from the

1996 and 1997 English Broadcast News Speech Corpora [37]. The DBN-DNN was trained with the best-performing

LVCSR features, namely SAT + DT features. The DBN-DNN architecture consisted of 6 hidden layers with 1,024

units per layer and a ﬁnal softmax layer of 2,220 context-dependent states. The SAT+DT feature input into the ﬁrst

layer used a context of 9 frames. Pre-training was performed following a recipe similar to [42].

Two phases of ﬁne-tuning were performed. During the ﬁrst phase, the cross-entropy loss was used. For cross-

entropy training, after each iteration through the whole training set, loss is measured on a held-out set and the

learning rate is annealed (i.e. reduced) by a factor of 2 if the held-out loss has grown or improves by less than

a threshold of 0.01% from the previous iteration. Once the learning rate has been annealed ﬁve times, the ﬁrst

phase of ﬁne-tuning stops. After weights are learned via cross-entropy, these weights are used as a starting point

for a second phase of ﬁne-tuning using a sequence criterion [37] which utilizes the MPE objective function, a

discriminative objective function similar to MMI [7] but which takes into account phoneme error rate.

A strong SAT+DT GMM-HMM baseline system, which consisted of 2,220 context-dependent states and 50,000

Gaussians, gave a WER of 18.8% on the EARS Dev-04f set, whereas the DNN-HMM system gave 17.5% [50].

F. Summary of the main results for DBN-DNN acoustic models on LVCSR tasks

Table III summarizes the acoustic modeling results described above. It shows that DNN-HMMs consistently

outperform GMM-HMMs that are trained on the same amount of data, sometimes by a large margin. For some

tasks, DNN-HMMs also outperform GMM-HMMs that are trained on much more data.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

18

G. Speeding up DNNs at recognition time

State pruning or Gaussian selection methods can be used to make GMM-HMM systems computationally efﬁcient

at recognition time. A DNN, however, uses virtually all its parameters at every frame to compute state likelihoods,

making it potentially much slower than a GMM with a comparable number of parameters. Fortunately, the time that

a DNN-HMM system requires to recognize 1s of speech can be reduced from 1.6s to 210ms, without decreasing

recognition accuracy, by quantizing the weights down to 8 bits and using the very fast SIMD primitives for ﬁxed-

point computation that are provided by a modern x86 CPU[49]. Alternatively, it can be reduced to 66ms by using

a GPU.

H. Alternative pre-training methods for DNNs

Pre-training DNNs as generative models led to better recognition results on TIMIT and subsequently on a variety

of LVCSR tasks. Once it was shown that DBN-DNNs could learn good acoustic models, further research revealed

that they could be trained in many different ways. It is possible to learn a DNN by starting with a shallow neural

net with a single hidden layer. Once this net has been trained discriminatively, a second hidden layer is interposed

between the ﬁrst hidden layer and the softmax output units and the whole network is again discriminatively trained.

This can be continued until the desired number of hidden layers is reached, after which full backpropagation

ﬁne-tuning is applied.

This type of discriminative pre-training works well in practice, approaching the accuracy achieved by generative

DBN pre-training and further improvement can be achieved by stopping the discriminative pre-training after a single

epoch instead of multiple epochs as reported in [45]. Discriminative pre-training has also been found effective

for the architectures called “deep convex network” [51] and “deep stacking network” [52], where pre-training is

accomplished by convex optimization involving no generative models.

Purely discriminative training of the whole DNN from random initial weights works much better than had been

thought, provided the scales of the initial weights are set carefully, a large amount of labeled training data is available,

and mini-batch sizes over training epochs are set appropriately [45], [53]. Nevertheless, generative pre-training still

improves test performance, sometimes by a signiﬁcant amount.

Layer-by-layer generative pre-training was originally done using RBMs, but various types of autoencoder with

one hidden layer can also be used (see ﬁgure 2). On vision tasks, performance similar to RBMs can be achieved

by pre-training with “denoising” autoencoders [54] that are regularized by setting a subset of the inputs to zero

or “contractive” autoencoders [55] that are regularized by penalizing the gradient of the activities of the hidden

units with respect to the inputs. For speech recognition, improved performance was achieved on both TIMIT and

Broadcast News tasks by pre-training with a type of autoencoder that tries to ﬁnd sparse codes [56].

I. Alternative ﬁne-tuning methods for DNNs

Very large GMM acoustic models are trained by making use of the parallelism available in compute clusters.

It is more difﬁcult to use the parallelism of cluster systems effectively when training DBN-DNNs. At present, the

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

19

output units

code units

input units

Fig. 2. An autoencoder is trained to minimize the discrepancy between the input vector and its reconstruction of the input vector on its output

units. If the code units and the output units are both linear and the discrepancy is the squared reconstruction error, an autoencoder ﬁnds the

same solution as Principal Components Analysis (up to a rotation of the components). If the output units and the code units are logistic, an

autoencoder is quite similar to an RBM that is trained using contrastive divergence, but it does not work as well for pre-training DNNs unless it

is strongly regularized in an appropriate way. If extra hidden layers are added before and/or after the code layer, an autoencoder can compress

data much better than Principal Components Analysis[17].

most effective parallelization method is to parallelize the matrix operations using a GPU. This gives a speed-up of

between one and two orders of magnitude, but the ﬁne-tuning stage remains a serious bottleneck and more effective

ways of parallelizing training are needed. Some recent attempts are described in [52], [57].

Most DBN-DNN acoustic models are ﬁne-tuned by applying stochastic gradient descent with momentum to

small mini-batches of training cases. More sophisticated optimization methods that can be used on larger mini-

batches include non-linear conjugate-gradient [17], LBFGS [58] and “Hessian Free” methods adapted to work for

deep neural networks [59]. However, the ﬁne-tuning of DNN acoustic models is typically stopped early to prevent

overﬁtting and it is not clear that the more sophisticated methods are worthwhile for such incomplete optimization.

V. OTHER WAYS OF USING DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS FOR SPEECH RECOGNITION

The previous section reviewed experiments in which GMMs were replaced by DBN-DNN acoustic models to

give hybrid DNN-HMM systems in which the posterior probabilities over HMM states produced by the DBN-DNN

replace the GMM output model. In this section, we describe two other ways of using DNNs for speech recognition.

A. Using DBN-DNNs to provide input features for GMM-HMM systems

Here we describe a class of methods where neural networks are used to provide the feature vectors that the

GMM in a GMM-HMM system is trained to model. The most common approach to extracting these feature vectors

is to discriminatively train a randomly initialized neural net with a narrow bottleneck middle layer and to use the

activations of the bottleneck hidden units as features. For a summary of such methods, commonly known as the

tandem approach, see [60], [61].

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

20

Recently, [62] investigated a less direct way of producing feature vectors for the GMM. First, a DNN with

six hidden layers of 1024 units each was trained to achieve good classiﬁcation accuracy for the 384 HMM states

represented in its softmax output layer. This DNN did not have a bottleneck layer and it was therefore able to

classify better than a DNN with a bottleneck. Then the 384 logits computed by the DNN as input to its softmax

layer were compressed down to 40 values using a 384-128-40-384 autoencoder. This method of producing feature

vectors is called AE-BN because the bottleneck is in the autoencoder rather than in the DNN that is trained to

classify HMM states.

Bottleneck feature experiments were conducted on 50 hours and 430 hours of data from the 1996 and 1997

English Broadcast News Speech collections and English broadcast audio from TDT-4. The baseline GMM-HMM

acoustic model trained on 50 hours was the same acoustic model described in Section IV-E. The acoustic model

trained on 430 hours had 6,000 states and 150,000 Gaussians. Again, the standard IBM LVCSR recipe described

in Section IV-E was used to create a set of speaker-adapted, discriminatively trained features and models.

All DBN-DNNs used SAT features as input. They were pre-trained as DBNs and then discriminatively ﬁne-tuned

to predict target values for 384 HMM states that were obtained by clustering the context-dependent states in the

baseline GMM-HMM system. As in section IV-E, the DBN-DNN was trained using the cross-entropy criterion,

followed by the sequence criterion with the same annealing and stopping rules.

After the training of the ﬁrst DBN-DNN terminated, the ﬁnal set of weights was used for generating the 384

logits at the output layer. A second 384-128-40-384 DBN-DNN was then trained as an auto-encoder to reduce the

dimensionality of the output logits. The GMM-HMM system that used the feature vectors produced by the AE-BN

was trained using feature and model space discriminative training. Both pre-training and the use of deeper networks

made the AE-BN features work better for recognition. To fairly compare the performance of the system that used

the AE-BN features with the baseline GMM-HMM system, the acoustic model of the AE-BN features was trained

with the same number of states and Gaussians as the baseline system.

Table IV shows the results of the AE-BN and baseline systems on both 50 and 430 hours, for different steps in

the LVCSR recipe described in Section IV-E. On 50 hours, the AE-BN system offers a 1.3% absolute improvement

over the baseline GMM-HMM system which is the same improvement as the DBN-DNN, while on 430 hours the

AE-BN system provides a 0.5% improvement over the baseline. The 17.5% WER is the best result to date on the

Dev-04f task, using an acoustic model trained on 50 hours of data. Finally, the complementarity of the AE-BN

and baseline methods is explored by performing model combination on both the 50 and 430 hour tasks. Table IV

shows that model-combination provides an additional 1.1% absolute improvement over individual systems on the

50 hour task, and a 0.5% absolute improvement over the individual systems on the 430 hour task, conﬁrming the

complementarity of the AE-BN and baseline systems.

Instead of replacing the coefﬁcients usually modeled by GMMs, neural networks can also be used to provide

additional features for the GMM to model [8], [9], [63]. DBN-DNNs have recently been shown to be very effective

in such tandem systems. On the Aurora2 test set, pre-training decreased word error rates by more than one third

for speech with signal-to-noise levels of 20dB or more, though this effect almost disappeared for very high noise

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

21

TABLE IV

WER in % on English Broadcast News

LVCSR Stage

GMM-HMM Baseline

AE-BN

GMM/HMM Baseline

AE-BN

50 Hours

430 Hours

FSA

+fBMMI

+BMMI

+MLLR

24.8

20.7

19.6

18.8

20.6

19.0

18.1

17.5

20.2

17.7

16.5

16.0

17.6

16.6

15.8

15.5

Model Combination

16.4

15.0

levels [64].

B. Using DNNs to estimate articulatory features for detection-based speech recognition

A recent study [65] demonstrated the effectiveness of DBN-DNNs for detecting sub-phonetic speech attributes

(also known as phonological or articulatory features [66]) in the widely used Wall Street Journal speech database

(5k-WSJ0). 13 MFCCs plus ﬁrst and second temporal derivatives were used as the short-time spectral representation

of the speech signal. The phone labels were derived from the forced alignments generated using a GMM-HMM

system trained with maximum likelihood, and that HMM system had 2818 tied-state, cross-word tri-phones, each

modeled by a mixture of 8 Gaussians. The attribute labels were generated by mapping phone labels to attributes,

simplifying the overlapping characteristics of the articulatory features. The 22 attributes used in the recent work,

as reported in [65], are a subset of the articulatory features explored in [66], [67].

DBN-DNNs achieved less than half the error rate of shallow neural nets with a single hidden layer. DNN

architectures with 5 to 7 hidden layers and up to 2048 hidden units per layer were explored, producing greater

than 90% frame-level accuracy for all 21 attributes tested in the full DNN system. On the same data, DBN-DNNs

also achieved a very high per frame phone classiﬁcation accuracy of 86.6%. This level of accuracy for detecting

sub-phonetic fundamental speech units may allow a new family of ﬂexible speech recognition and understanding

systems that make use of phonological features in the full detection-based framework discussed in [65].

VI. SUMMARY AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS

When GMMs were ﬁrst used for acoustic modeling they were trained as generative models using the EM algorithm

and it was some time before researchers showed that signiﬁcant gains could be achieved by a subsequent stage of

discriminative training using an objective function more closely related to the ultimate goal of an ASR system[7],

[68]. When neural nets were ﬁrst used they were trained discriminatively and it was only recently that researchers

showed that signiﬁcant gains could be achieved by adding an initial stage of generative pre-training that completely

ignores the ultimate goal of the system. The pre-training is much more helpful in deep neural nets than in shallow

ones, especially when limited amounts of labeled training data are available. It reduces overﬁtting and it also reduces

the time required for discriminative ﬁne-tuning with backpropagation which was one of the main impediments to

using DNNs when neural networks were ﬁrst used in place of GMMs in the 1990s. The successes achieved using

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

22

pre-training led to a resurgence of interest in DNNs for acoustic modeling. Retrospectively, it is now clear that

most of the gain comes from using deep neural networks to exploit information in neighboring frames and from

modeling tied context-dependent states. Pre-training is helpful in reducing overﬁtting, and it does reduce the time

taken for ﬁne-tuning, but similar reductions in training time can be achieved with less effort by careful choice of

the scales of the initial random weights in each layer.

The ﬁrst method to be used for pre-training DNNs was to learn a stack of RBMs, one per hidden layer of the

DNN. An RBM is an undirected generative model that uses binary latent variables, but training it by maximum

likelihood is expensive so a much faster, approximate method called contrastive divergence is used. This method has

strong similarities to training an autoencoder network (a non-linear version of PCA) that converts each datapoint

into a code from which it is easy to approximately reconstruct the datapoint. Subsequent research showed that

autoencoder networks with one layer of logistic hidden units also work well for pre-training, especially if they are

regularized by adding noise to the inputs or by constraining the codes to be insensitive to small changes in the

input. RBMs do not require such regularization because the Bernoulli noise introduced by using stochastic binary

hidden units acts as a very strong regularizer.

We have described how three major speech research groups achieved signiﬁcant improvements in a variety

of state-of-the-art ASR systems by replacing GMMs with DNNs, and we believe that there is the potential for

considerable further improvement. There is no reason to believe that we are currently using the optimal types of

hidden units or the optimal network architectures and it is highly likely that both the pre-training and ﬁne-tuning

algorithms can be modiﬁed to reduce the amount of overﬁtting and the amount of computation. We therefore expect

that the performance gap between acoustic models that use DNNs and ones that use GMMs will continue to increase

for some time.

Currently, the biggest disadvantage of DNNs compared with GMMs is that it is much harder to make good use of

large cluster machines to train them on massive datasets. This is offset by the fact that DNNs make more efﬁcient

use of data so they do not require as much data to achieve the same performance, but better ways of parallelizing

the ﬁne-tuning of DNNs is still a major issue.

REFERENCES

[1] J. Baker, L. Deng, J. Glass, S. Khudanpur, Chin hui Lee, N. Morgan, and D. O’Shaughnessy, “Developments and directions in speech

recognition and understanding, part 1,” Signal Processing Magazine, IEEE, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 75–80, may 2009.

[2] S. Furui, Digital Speech Processing, Synthesis, and Recognition, Marcel Dekker, 2000.

[3] B. H. Juang, S. Levinson, and M. Sondhi, “Maximum likelihood estimation for multivariate mixture observations of Markov chains,”

IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 307–309, 1986.

[4] H. Hermansky, “Perceptual linear predictive (plp) analysis of speech,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 87, no. 4,

pp. 1738–1752, 1990.

[5] S. Furui, “Cepstral analysis technique for automatic speaker veriﬁcation,” IEEE Trans. ASSP, vol. ASSP-29, pp. 254–272, 1981.

[6] S. Young, “Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition: A Review,” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 45–57,

1996.

[7] L. Bahl, P. Brown, P. de Souza, and R. Mercer, “Maximum mutual information estimation of hidden Markov model parameters for speech

recognition,” in Proceedings of the ICASSP, 1986, pp. 49–52.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

23

[8] H. Hermansky, D. P. W. Ellis, and S. Sharma, “Tandem connectionist feature extraction for conventional HMM systems,” in Proceedings

of ICASSP, Los Alamitos, CA, USA, 2000, vol. 3, pp. 1635–1638, IEEE Computer Society.

[9] H. Bourlard and N. Morgan, Connectionist Speech Recognition: A Hybrid Approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA, USA,

1993.

[10] L. Deng, “Computational models for speech production,” in Computational Models of Speech Pattern Processing, pp. 199–213. Springer-

Verlag, New York, 1999.

[11] L. Deng, “Switching dynamic system models for speech articulation and acoustics,” in Mathematical Foundations of Speech and Language

Processing, pp. 115–134. Springer-Verlag, New York, 2003.

[12] A. Mohamed, G. Dahl, and G. Hinton, “Deep belief networks for phone recognition,” in NIPS Workshop on Deep Learning for Speech

Recognition and Related Applications, 2009.

[13] A. Mohamed, G. Dahl, and G. Hinton, “Acoustic modeling using deep belief networks,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and

Language Processing,, vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 14–22, jan. 2012.

[14] D. E. Rumelhart, G. E. Hinton, and R. J. Williams, “Learning representations by back-propagating errors,” Nature, vol. 323, no. 6088,

pp. 533–536, 1986.

[15] X. Glorot and Y. Bengio, “Understanding the difﬁculty of training deep feedforward neural networks,” in Proceedings of AISTATS, 2010,

pp. 249–256.

[16] D. C. Ciresan, U. Meier, L. M. Gambardella, and J. Schmidhuber, “Deep, Big, Simple Neural Nets for Handwritten Digit Recognition,”

Neural Computation, vol. 22, pp. 3207–3220, 2010.

[17] G. E. Hinton and R. Salakhutdinov, “Reducing the dimensionality of data with neural networks,” Science, vol. 313, no. 5786, pp. 504–

507, 2006.

[18] H. Larochelle, D. Erhan, A. Courville, J. Bergstra, and Y. Bengio, “An empirical evaluation of deep architectures on problems with many

factors of variation,” in Proceedings of the 24th international conference on Machine learning, 2007, pp. 473–480.

[19] J. Pearl, Probabilistic Inference in Intelligent Systems: Networks of Plausible Inference, Morgan Kaufmann, 1988.

[20] G. E. Hinton, “Training products of experts by minimizing contrastive divergence,” Neural Computation, vol. 14, pp. 1771–1800, 2002.

[21] G. E. Hinton, “A practical guide to training restricted boltzmann machines,” Tech. Rep. UTML TR 2010-003, Department of Computer

Science, University of Toronto, 2010.

[22] G. E. Hinton, S. Osindero, and Y. Teh, “A fast learning algorithm for deep belief nets,” Neural Computation, vol. 18, pp. 1527–1554,

2006.

[23] T. N. Sainath, B. Ramabhadran, and M. Picheny, “An exploration of large vocabulary tools for small vocabulary phonetic recognition,” in

IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding Workshop, 2009.

[24] A. Mohamed, T. N. Sainath, G E. Dahl, B. Ramabhadran, G. E. Hinton, and M. Picheny, “Deep belief networks using discriminative

features for phone recognition,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2011.

[25] A. Mohamed, G. Hinton, and G. Penn, “Understanding how deep belief networks perform acoustic modelling,” in Proceedings of ICASSP,

2012.

[26] Y. Hifny and S. Renals, “Speech recognition using augmented conditional random ﬁelds,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech & Language

Processing, vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 354–365, 2009.

[27] A. Robinson, “An application to recurrent nets to phone probability estimation,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol. 5, no. 2,

pp. 298–305, 1994.

[28] J. Ming and F. J. Smith, “Improved phone recognition using bayesian triphone models,” in Proc. ICASSP, 1998, p. 409412.

[29] L. Deng and D. Yu, “Use of differential cepstra as acoustic features in hidden trajectory modelling for phonetic recognition,” in Proc.

ICASSP, 2007, pp. 445–448.

[30] A. Halberstadt and J. Glass, “Heterogeneous measurements and multiple classiﬁers for speech recognition,” in Proc. ICSLP, 1998.

[31] A. Mohamed, D. Yu, and L. Deng, “Investigation of full-sequence training of deep belief networks for speech recognition,” in Proceedings

of Interspeech, 2010.

[32] T.N. Sainath, B. Ramabhadran, M. Picheny, D. Nahamoo, and D. Kanevsky, “Exemplar-based sparse representation features: From timit

to lvcsr,” Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 19, no. 8, pp. 2598 –2613, nov. 2011.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

24

[33] G. E. Dahl, M. Ranzato, A. Mohamed, and G. E. Hinton, “Phone recognition with the mean-covariance restricted Boltzmann machine,”

in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 23, J. Lafferty, C. K. I. Williams, J. Shawe-Taylor, R.S. Zemel, and A. Culotta,

Eds., 2010, pp. 469–477.

[34] O. Abdel-Hamid, A. Mohamed, H. Jiang, and G. Penn, “Applying convolutional neural networks concepts to hybrid NN-HMM model for

speech recognition,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2012.

[35] X. He, L. Deng, and W. Chou, “Discriminative Learning in Sequential Pattern Recognition — A Unifying Review for Optimization-Oriented

Speech Recognition,” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 14–36, 2008.

[36] Y. Bengio, R. De Mori, G. Flammia, and F. Kompe, “Global Optimization of a Neural Network - Hidden Markov Model Hybrid,” in

Proceedings of EuroSpeech, 1991.

[37] B. Kingsbury, “Lattice-based Optimization of Sequence Classiﬁcation Criteria for Neural-Network Acoustic Modeling,” in Proceedings

of ICASSP, 2009, pp. 3761–3764.

[38] R. Prabhavalkar and E. Fosler-Lussier, “Backpropagation training for multilayer conditional random ﬁeld based phone recognition,” in

Proc. ICASSP ’10, 2010, pp. 5534–5537.

[39] H. Lee, P. Pham, Y. Largman, and A. Ng, “Unsupervised feature learning for audio classiﬁcation using convolutional deep belief networks,”

in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 22, Y. Bengio, D. Schuurmans, J. Lafferty, C. K. I. Williams, and A. Culotta, Eds.,

2009, pp. 1096–1104.

[40] L. Deng, D. Yu, and A. Acero, “Structured speech modeling,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Langauge Processing, vol. 14,

pp. 1492–1504, 2006.

[41] H. Zen, M. Gales, Y. Nankaku, and K. Tokuda, “Product of experts for statistical parametric speech synthesis,” IEEE Transactions on

Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 794–805, March 2012.

[42] G. Dahl, D. Yu, L. Deng, and A. Acero, “Context-Dependent Pre-Trained Deep Neural Networks for Large-Vocabulary Speech Recognition,”

IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing,, vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 30–42, jan 2012.

[43] F. Seide, G. Li, and D. Yu, “Conversational speech transcription using context-dependent deep neural networks,” in Proc. Interspeech,

2011, pp. 437–440.

[44] D. Yu, L. Deng, and G. Dahl, “Roles of pre-training and ﬁne-tuning in context-dependent dbn-hmms for real-world speech recognition,”

in NIPS Workshop on Deep Learning and Unsupervised Feature Learning, 2010.

[45] F. Seide, G. Li, X. Chen, and D. Yu,

“Feature engineering in context-dependent deep neural networks for conversational speech

transcription,” in Proc. IEEE ASRU, 2011, pp. 24–29.

[46] D. Povey, D. Kanevsky, B. Kingsbury, B. Ramabhadran, G. Saon, and K. Visweswariah, “Boosted mmi for model and feature-space

discriminative training,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2008.

[47] N. Jaitly, P. Nguyen, A. Senior, and V. Vanhoucke,

“An Application of Pretrained Deep Neural Networks To Large Vocabulary

Conversational Speech Recognition,” Tech. Rep. 001, Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, 2012.

[48] G. Zweig, P. Nguyen, D.V. Compernolle, K. Demuynck, L. Atlas, P. Clark, G. Sell, M. Wang, F. Sha, H. Hermansky, D. Karakos, A. Jansen,

S. Thomas, G.S.V.S. Sivaram, S. Bowman, and J. Kao, “Speech Recognition with Segmental Conditional Random Fields: A summary of

the JHU CLSP 2010 Summer Workshop,” in Proc. ICASSP ’11, 2011, pp. 5044–5047.

[49] V. Vanhoucke, A. Senior, and M. Z. Mao, “Improving the speed of neural networks on cpus,” in Proc. Deep Learning and Unsupervised

Feature Learning Workshop, NIPS 2011, 2011.

[50] T. N. Sainath, B. Kingsbury, and B. Ramabhadran, “Improvements in using deep belief networks for large vocabulary continuous speech

recognition,” Tech. Rep. UTML TR 2010-003, Technical Report, Speech and Language Algorithm Group, IBM, February 2011.

[51] L. Deng and D. Yu, “Deep convex network: A scalable architecture for speech pattern classiﬁcation,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2011.

[52] L. Deng, D. Yu, and J. Platt, “Scalable stacking and learning for building deep architectures,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2012.

[53] D. Yu, L. Deng, G. Li, and Seide F, “Discriminative pre-training of deep neural networks,” in U.S. Patent Filing, Nov. 2011.

[54] P. Vincent H..and Larochelle.and I. Lajoie and.Y. Bengio and P.-A. Manzagol,

“Stacked denoising autoencoders:

learning useful

representations in a deep network with a local denoising criterion,” Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol. 11, pp. 3371–3408,

2010.

[55] S. Rifai, P. Vincent, X. Muller, X. Glorot, and Y. Bengio, “Contracting auto-encoders: Explicit invariance during feature extraction,” in

Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2011.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

25

[56] C. Plahl, T. N. Sainath, B. Ramabhadran, and D. Nahamoo, “Improved pre-training of deep belief networks using sparse encoding

symmetric machines,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2012.

[57] B. Hutchinson, L. Deng, and D. Yu, “A deep architecture with bilinear modeling of hidden representations: applications to phonetic

recognition,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2012.

[58] Q. V. Le, J. Ngiam, A. Coates, A. Lahiri, B. Prochnow, and A. Y. Ng, “On optimization methods for deep learning,” in Proceedings of

the 28th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2011.

[59] J. Martens, “Deep Learning via Hessian-free Optimization,” in Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Machine learning,

2010.

[60] N Morgan, “Deep and wide: Multiple layers in automatic speech recognition,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language

Processing, vol. 20, no. 1, jan. 2012.

[61] Sivaram G. and H. Hermansky, “Sparse multilayer perceptron for phoneme recognition,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and

Language Processing, vol. 20, no. 1, jan. 2012.

[62] T. N. Sainath, B. Kingsbury, and B. Ramabhadran, “Auto-encoder bottleneck features using deep belief networks,” in Proc. ICASSP 2012,

2012.

[63] N. Morgan, Qifeng Zhu, A. Stolcke, K. Sonmez, S. Sivadas, T. Shinozaki, M. Ostendorf, P. Jain, H. Hermansky, D. Ellis, G. Doddington,

B. Chen, O. Cretin, H. Bourlard, and M. Athineos, “Pushing the envelope - aside [speech recognition],” Signal Processing Magazine,

IEEE, vol. 22, no. 5, pp. 81 – 88, sept. 2005.

[64] O. Vinyals and S.V. Ravuri, “Comparing multilayer perceptron to deep belief network tandem features for robust asr,” in Proceedings of

ICASSP, 2011, pp. 4596–4599.

[65] D. Yu, S. Siniscalchi, L. Deng, and C. Lee, “Boosting attribute and phone estimation accuracies with deep neural networks for detection-

based speech recognition,” in Proceedings of ICASSP, 2012.

[66] L. Deng and D. Sun, “A statistical approach to automatic speech recognition using the atomic speech units constructed from overlapping

articulatory features,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 85, no. 5, pp. 2702 – 2719, 1994.

[67] J. Sun and L. Deng,

“An overlapping-feature based phonological model incorporating linguistic constraints: Applications to speech

recognition,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 111, no. 2, pp. 1086–1101, 2002.

[68] P.C. Woodland and D. Povey, “Large scale discriminative training of hidden markov models for speech recognition,” Computer Speech

and Language, vol. 16, pp. 2547, 2002.

PLACE

PHOTO

HERE

Geoffrey Hinton received his Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh in 1978. He spent ﬁve years as a faculty
member at Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, and he is currently a Distinguished Professor at the University

of Toronto. He is a fellow of the Royal Society and an honorary foreign member of the American Academy of Arts and

Sciences. His awards include the David E. Rumelhart Prize, the International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence

Research Excellence Award, and the Gerhard Herzberg Canada Gold Medal for Science and Engineering. He was one of

the researchers who introduced the back-propagation algorithm. His other contributions include Boltzmann machines,

distributed representations, time-delay neural nets, mixtures of experts, variational learning, contrastive divergence

learning, and deep belief nets.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

26

Li Deng received his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. In 1989, he joined Dept. Electrical and Computer Engineering, University
of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada as an Assistant Professor, where he became a tenured Full Professor in 1996. In 1999, he joined Microsoft Research,

Redmond, WA as a Senior Researcher, where he is currently a Principal Researcher. Since 2000, he has also been an Afﬁliate Professor in

the Department of Electrical Engineering at University of Washington, Seattle, teaching the graduate course of Computer Speech Processing.

Prior to Microsoft Research, he also worked or taught at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ATR Interpreting Telecommunications Research

Laboratories (Kyoto, Japan), and Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. In the genearl areas of speech recognition, signal processing,

and machine learning, he has published over 300 refereed papers in leading journals and conferences and 3 books. He is a Fellow of the Acoustical

Society of America, a Fellow of the IEEE, a Fellow of ISCA, and is ISCA’s Distinguished Lecturer 2010-2011. He has been granted over 50

patents, and has received awards/honors bestowed by IEEE, ISCA, ASA, Microsoft, and other organizations including the latest 2011 IEEE SPS

Meritorious Service Award. He served on the Board of Governors of the IEEE Signal Processing Society (2008-2010), and as Editor-in-Chief

for the IEEE Signal Processing Magazine (2009-2011). He is currently the Editor in Chief of IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech & Language

Processing 2012-2014, and is General Chair of ICASSP-2013.

Dong Yu joined Microsoft Corporation in 1998 and Microsoft Speech Research Group in 2002, where he is a researcher. He holds a Ph.D.
degree in computer science from University of Idaho, an MS degree in computer science from Indiana University at Bloomington, an MS degree

in electrical engineering from Chinese Academy of Sciences, and a BS degree (with honor) in electrical engineering from Zhejiang University

(China). His current research interests include speech processing, robust speech recognition, discriminative training, spoken dialog system, voice

search technology, machine learning, and pattern recognition. He has published more than 90 papers in these areas and is the inventor/coinventor

of more than 40 granted/pending patents. Dr. Dong Yu is currently serving as an associate editor of IEEE transactions on audio, speech, and

language processing (2011-) and has served as an associate editor of IEEE signal processing magazine (2008-2011) and the lead guest editor of

IEEE transactions on audio, speech, and language processing - special issue on deep learning for speech and language processing (2010-2011).

George E. Dahl received a B.A. in computer science, with highest honors, from Swarthmore College and an M.Sc. from the University of
Toronto, where he is currently completing a Ph.D. with a research focus in statistical machine learning. His current main research interest is in

training models that learn many levels of rich, distributed representations from large quantities of perceptual and linguistic data.

Abdel-rahman Mohamed received his B.Sc. and M.Sc. from the Electronics and Communication Engineering Department, Cairo University
in 2004 and 2007. From 2004 he worked in the speech research group at RDI Company, Egypt. He then joined the ESAT-PSI speech group

at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium. In September 2008 he started his PhD at the University of Toronto. His research focus is in

developing machine learning techniques to advance human language technologies.

Navdeep Jaitly received his B.A. from Hanover College and M.Math from the University of Waterloo in 2000. After receiving his Masters,
he developed algorithms and statistical methods for analysis of Protoemics data at Caprion Pharmaceuticals in Montreal and at the Paciﬁc

Northwest National Labs in Washington. Since 2008 he has been pursuing a PhD at the University of Toronto. His current interests lie in

Machine Learning, Speech Recognition, Computational Biology and Statistical Methods.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

Andrew Senior Andrew Senior received his PhD from the University of Cambridge and is a Research Scientist at Google. Before joining
Google he worked at IBM Research in the areas of handwriting, audio-visual speech, face and ﬁngerprint recognition as well as video privacy

protection and visual tracking. He edited the book ”Privacy Protection in Video Surveillance”; coauthored Springer’s ”Guide to Biometrics”

and over sixty scientiﬁc papers; holds 26 patents and serves as an Associate Editor of Pattern Recognition journal. His research interests range

across speech and pattern recognition, computer vision and visual art.

27

Vincent Vanhoucke is a research scientist in Google Research, Mountain View, CA, where he manages the speech quality research team. Prior
to that, he was an early employee at Like.com (now part of Google), where he worked on object, face and text recognition technologies. From

1999 to 2005, he was a research scientist in the speech R&D team at Nuance, Menlo Park, CA. He received his Ph.D. from Stanford University

in 2004 for research in acoustic modeling, and is a graduate from the Ecole Centrale Paris.

Patrick Nguyen is a research scientist in Google Research, Mountain View, CA. Prior to joining Google, he was with Microsoft Research
in Redmond, WA from 2004-2010. Prior to that, he was working at the Panasonic Speech Technology Laboratory from 2000-2004, in Santa

Barbara, CA. In 1998, he founded a company developing a platform real-time foreign exchange trading. He received his Doctorate degree from

the Swiss Federal Institute for Technology (EPFL) in 2002. His area of expertise revolves around statistical processing of human language, and

in particular speech recognition. He is mostly known for Segmental Conditional Random Fields and Eigenvoices. He served on the organizing

committee of ASRU 2011 and he co-led the 2010 JHU workshop on Speech Recognition. He currently serves on the Speech and Language

Technical Committee of the IEEE Signal Processing Society.

Tara Sainath received her PhD in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT in 2009. The main focus of her PhD work was in
acoustic modeling for noise robust speech recognition. She joined the Speech and Language Algorithms group at IBM T.J. Watson Research

Center upon completion of her PhD. She organized a Special Session on Sparse Representations at Interspeech 2010 in Japan. In addition, she

has served as a staff reporter for the IEEE Speech and Language Processing Technical Committee (SLTC) Newsletter. She currently holds 15

US patents. Her research interests mainly focus in acoustic modeling, including sparse representations, deep belief networks, adaptation methods

and noise robust speech recognition.

Brian Kingsbury received the B.S. degree (high honor) in electrical engineering from Michigan State University, East Lansing, in 1989 and
the Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1998. Since 1999 he has been a research staff member

in the Human Language Technologies Department, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY. His research interests include

large-vocabulary speech transcription, audio indexing and analytics, and information retrieval from speech. He has contributed to IBM’s entries

in numerous competitive evaluations of speech technology, including Switchboard, SPINE, EARS, Spoken Term Detection, and GALE. From

2009–2011 he served on the Speech and Language Technical Committee of the IEEE Signal Processing Society, and from 2010–2012 he served

as an ICASSP area chair. He is currently an associate editor for IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech & Language Processing.

April 27, 2012

DRAFT

