act and sem - sup lea are imp - tan tec whe lab dat are sca .
we com the two und a gau ran eld mod .
lab and unl dat are rep - res as ver in a wei gra , wit edg wei enc the sim bet in - sta .
the sem - sup lea pro is the for in ter of a gau ran eld on thi gra , the mea of whi is cha - act in ter of har fun .
ac - tiv lea is per on top of the sem - sup lea sch by gre sel - ing que fro the unl dat to min the est exp cla err ( ris ) ; in the cas of gau eld the ris is ef - cie com usi mat met .
we pre exp res on syn dat , han dig rec , and tex cla - tio tas .
the act lea sch req a muc sma num of que to ach hig acc com wit ran que sel .
sem - sup lea tar the com sit whe lab dat are sca but unl dat are abu - dan .
und sui ass , it use unl dat to hel sup lea tas .
var sem - sup lea met hav bee pro and sho pro res see ( 123 ) giv a sur .
the met typ - cal ass tha the lab dat set is giv and xed .
in pra , it may mak sen to uti act lea in con wit sem - sup lea .
tha is , we mig all the lea alg to pic a set of unl - bel ins to be lab by a dom exp , whi
wil the be use as ( or to aug ) the lab dat set .
in oth wor , if we hav to lab a few ins for sem - sup lea , it may be att to let the lea alg tel us whi ins to lab , rat tha se - lec the ran .
we wil lim the ran of que se - lec to the unl dat set , a pra kno as poo - bas act lea or sel sam .
the has bee a gre dea of res in act lea .
for exa , ton and kol ( 123 ) sel que to min - imi the ver spa siz for sup vec mac coh et al .
( 123 ) min the var com of the est gen err fre et al .
( 123 ) emp a com of cla , and que a poi whe the com mem dis .
mos of the act lea met do not tak fur adv of the lar amo of unl dat onc the que are sel .
exc inc mcc and nig ( 123 ) who use em wit un - lab dat int int the act lea , and mus et al .
( 123 ) who use a sem - sup lea met dur tra .
in add to thi bod of wor fro the mac lea com , the is a lar lit on the clo rel top of exp des in sta cha and ver ( 123 ) giv a sur of exp - tal des fro a bay per .
rec zhu et al .
( 123 ) int a sem - sup lea fra whi is bas on gau ran eld and har fun .
in thi pap we dem - str how thi fra all a com of act lea and sem - sup lea .
in bri , the fra - wor all one to efc est the exp gen - ali err aft que a poi , whi lea to a bet - ter que sel cri tha nai sel the poi wit max lab amb .
the , onc the que are sel and add to the lab dat set , the cla can be tra usi bot the lab and rem unl dat .
we pre res on syn dat , tex cla -
pro of the icm - 123 wor on the con fro lab to unl dat , was dc , 123
tio and ima cla tas tha ind the com - bin of the tec can res in hig eff
gau ran eld and har
ene min fun
can be the
rad bas fun ( rbf ) :
are lab wit the cor
we beg by bri des the sem - sup lea -
tot num of poi .
we ass the lab are bin :
the sem - sup alg in thi pap is bas on a rel of the req tha lab are bin , re - sul in a sim and tra fam of alg .
we the lab on lab dat are sti con to be 123 or 123 :
so tha nea poi in euc spa are ass lar edg wei .
oth wei are pos , of cou , is dis or sym - ful spe the dat man str .
we not tha a met for lea - is pro in ( zhu et al . , 123 ) .
ing fra of zhu et al .
( 123 ) .
the are
, and unl poi .
we wil use not the lab and unl set , and " $#% ' & ( * ) , + . - 123 / 123 .
we ass a con gra ' 123 : is giv wit nod cor to the " dat poi , of whi the nod in are rep by an " <;= " wei mat s .
the edg > whi is giv .
for exa if ? +a@
and may be mor app whe bol .
for our pur the mat ing the sca par all con lab on unl nod ( 123 ) \^@ _` c#a ) bc_ d+a - e / 123 for ( 123 .
we als den the ove the gra .
den the dia mat ( 123 dfe are the wei deg of .
the com lap is the " x;y " the nod in1 mat for as1 # ( ) z : is an inv tem par , and is the par fun
sin we wan unl poi tha are nea in the gra to hav sim lab , we den the ene to be
we can rew the ene fun in .
we con the gau
so tha low ene cor to a slo var fun
is als the mea of the eld .
cor to unl dat .
int blo for lab and unl nod ,
is con and lab nod fro bot cla
put wit mat met .
we par the lap ma -
is the mod of the gau ran eld , but sin the joi dis -
the gau ran eld dif fro the sta dis - cre mar ran eld in tha the eld con are ove a con sta spa .
mor , for a gau - sia eld the joi pro dis ove unl
the har pro mea tha the val at eac unl nod is the ave of nei
whi is con wit our pri not of smo wit res to the gra .
bec of the max pri -
nod is gau wit cov mat the sub ofz the min ene fun the gau eld is har tha is , it sat / on unl dat poi ! , and is equ to ) on the la - bel dat poi cip of har fun ( doy & sne , 123 ) , are pre at the bou ( the usu cas oth tak on the ext 123 or 123 ) .
by den tio is gau , the har ene min fun can be com - , and den the
lab dat , is a mul nor : *ya tha the har ene min fun is to lab nod as cla 123 in cas dj / 123 , and to lab nod cla 123 oth .
the har fun has man nic int , of den the tra mat ran wal on gra unl nod , it mov to a nod wit pro a lab nod .
the sta fro nod , rea a lab nod wit lab 123
whi the ran wal vie is par rel her .
con the by a par .
sta fro an
to car out cla wit a gau eld , we not mea of the eld .
the the bay cla rul
aft one ste .
the wal con unt the par rea is the pro tha the par ,
mea val on the unl dat poi .
the sol is
it is not har to sho tha the gau eld , con on
the lab dat are the abs bou for the ran wal .
mor on thi sem - sup lea fra can be fou in ( zhu et al . , 123 ) .
act lea
is the unk tru
we den the tru ris
we pro to per act lea wit the gau ran eld mod by gre sel que fro the unl dat to min the ris of the har ene min fun .
the ris is the est gen - iza err of the bay cla , and can be efc com wit mat met .
mea of the gau eld mod :
tio we can com the est ris
is the bay dec rul , whe ( wit a
is not com .
in ord to pro , it is nec to mak ass .
we beg by ass tha
is the pro of rea 123 in a ran wal on the gra , our ass is tha we can app the dis usi a bia coi at eac
of the bay cla bas on the har fun
# , / oth .
her ~ sli abu of not ) sgn
lab dis at nod , giv the lab dat .
bec we can est the unk dis ~ d wit the e .
wit thi ass - nod , who pro of hea is
, we wil rec an ans
har fun by
sin we do not kno wha ans we aga ass the ans is app wit
the exp est ris aft que
if we per act lea and que an unl nod ( 123 or 123 ) .
add thi poi to the tra set and ret , the gau eld and its mea fun wil of cou cha .
we den the new .
the est ris wil
we wil rec ,
whi mor lab dat req :
fin bes que usi ( 123 )
, wei mat com har usi ( 123 ) , rec ans
fig
the act lea alg
the act lea cri we use in thi pap is the gre pro of cho the nex que imi the exp est ris :
sta res ( a der is giv in app a ) giv
for nod ? thi is the sam as ndi the con dis of .
not tha
, a mul nor dis , a
to car out thi pro , we nee to com the har - to the cur - ren lab tra set .
thi is the ret pro and is com int in gen .
how for gau - sia eld and har fun , the is an efc way to ret .
rec tha the har fun sol is
wha is the sol if we x the val all unl nod , giv the val of ' the con onc we x '
on unl dat , and we com the har fun .
as a nal wor on com efc , we not tha aft add que and its ans to the nex ite we wil nee to com 123 ; a der is giv in app b .
is the - th col of the inv lap is the - th dia ele - men of the sam mat .
bot are alr com whe .
thi is a lin com -
the inv of the lap on unl dat , wit the rem .
ins of nai tak the inv , the are efc alg to com it fro
to sum , the act lea alg is sho in fig 123
the tim com to nd the bes que is
put and the can be car out efc .
fig 123 sho ( top lef ) a syn dat wit two la - bel dat ( mar 123 , 123 ) , an unl poi a in the
mos unc que
lab set siz
mos unc que
lab set siz
fig dat exp .
top lef : syn dat 123 top rig : syn dat 123
bot lef : ris on syn dat 123 bot rig : cla acc on syn dat 123
sta err are sho as dot lin .
poi in
cen abo and a clu of 123 unl poi b be - low .
b is sli shi to the rig .
the gra is ful
con wit wei n .
in thi con , we euc dis bet hav the mos unc in a : btm # b hav aro 123 , so we are mor cer abo the 123 .
thi sho tha the
lab of b tha a .
how , the ris min cri - ter pic the upp cen poi ( mar wit a sta ) in b to que , ins of a .
in fac the est ris is
act lea alg is not sim pic the mos unc poi for que , but rat it thi glo .
fig 123 als sho ( top rig ) ano syn dat , whe the tru lab for the 123 poi for a che - boa pat .
we exp act lea to dis the pat and que a sma num of rep fro eac clu .
on the oth han , we exp a muc lar num - ber of que if que are ran sel .
we use
we per 123 ran tri .
at the beg of eac tri we ran sel a pos exa and a neg exa as the ini tra set .
we the run act lea - ing and com it to two bas : ( 123 ) ran que : ; ( 123 ) mos un -
a ful con gra wit wei
ran sel the nex que fro ! cer que : sel the mos unc ins in ! i . e .
the one wit clo to 123 .
in eac cas we run for 123
ite ( que ) .
at eac ite we plo the est
( low rig ) .
the err bar are
ris ( 123 ) of the sel que ( low lef ) , and the cla -
cat acc on !
sta dev , ave ove the ran tri .
as ex - pec , wit act lea we red ris mor qui tha ran que or the mos unc que .
in fac , act lea wit abo 123 que ( plu 123 ini ran poi ) lea the cor con , whi is nea opt giv tha the are 123 clu .
loo at the que , we nd tha act lea mos sel the cen poi of
nex we rep the res of doc cat ex - per usi the 123 new dat
we eva the fol bin cla tas : rec . spo . bas ( 123 doc ) vs .
rec . spo . hoc ( 123 ) ; com . sys . - ibm . pc . har ( 123 ) vs .
com . sys . mac . har ( 123 ) ; tal . rel . mis ( 123 ) vs .
alt . ath ( 123 ) .
the rep - sen eas , mod and har pro res .
eac doc is min pro int a tf . idf vec , wit app hea rem , fre cut , ste -
min , or a sto lis .
two doc by an edg if .
we use the fol wei amo s 123 nea nei , as mea by the co -
fun on the edg : as bef , we per 123 tri , and ran pic two
s 123 nea nei or if
lab set siz
lab set siz
lab set siz
lab set siz
lab set siz
lab set siz
fig ( top ) and cla acc ( bot ) on 123 new , com to ran que bas vs .
hoc ( lef ) , pc vs .
mac ( cen ) , and rel vs .
ath ( rig ) .
ini tra exa to sta eac tri .
the res of the doc are tre as unl dat .
in eac tri we ans 123 que .
aga we com act lea wit
fig 123 com it wit ran que .
act lea red ris fas , and ach hig cla - sic acc mor rap tha ran que .
for eas dat onl a han of que are nec - sar for act lea to ach 123 acc .
we obs tha act lea ten to que the sam sma set of doc in dif tri .
we als tra a svm cla on the ran que , wit the cos sim ker and ( whi was the bes set amo sev dif ker and a wid val ) .
not tha the svm doe not uti unl dat on the dat the sem - sup met out the svm .
fig 123 com it wit the mos unc que .
mos unc que sel the ins who
val is clo to 123 as the nex que .
svm mos unc sel the ins who mar is clo - est to 123 ( clo to the dec bou ) .
as bef the svm doe not uti unl dat .
the har - mon fun cla is wor wit the mos unc que tha wit ran que , whi the svm imp wit the mos unc que .
in all cas our pro act lea sch cle out bot bas for the 123 new dat .
we the eva act lea on a han dig dat , ori fro the ced buf bin dig dat ( hul , 123 ) .
the dig wer pre to re - dow - sam and gau smo , wit pix val - ues ran fro 123 to 123 ( le cun et al . , 123 ) .
the are fur sca dow to eac ima is thu rep by a 123 - dim vec .
we con the bin pro of cla dig 123 vs .
123 , wit 123 ima in eac cla .
we cre a gra
duc the siz of eac ima dow to a12 k pix bin .
on the 123 ima , wit an edg bet ima is inn s 123 nea nei ( in euc dis ) or vic ver .
the wei on edg are age .
in eac of 123 tri we ran pic one exa -
ple fro eac cla to for the ini tra set .
we the com act lea wit ran que and the mos unc que for 123 ite .
fig 123 ( lef ) sho the ris .
wit act lea the ris dec fas tha wit the bas .
fig 123 ( cen ) sho the cla - tio acc whe act lea is see to out the bas .
aga onl a han of exa are nee for act lea to rea hig acc .
the svm use
is the pix - wis euc dis bet im -
amo pol ker wit ord 123 to 123 , and a wid val .
we als obs tha the are cer
123 , whi is one of the bes
mos unc que
lab set siz
mos unc que svm mos unc
lab set siz
mos unc que
lab set siz
mos unc que svm mos unc
lab set siz
mos unc que
lab set siz
mos unc que svm mos unc
lab set siz
fig ( top ) and cla acc ( bot ) on 123 new , com to the mos unc que bas vs .
hoc ( lef ) , pc vs .
mac ( cen ) , and rel vs .
ath ( rig ) .
ima tha act lea fre que in dif tri .
fig 123 ( rig ) sho som of the mos fre que ima we bel the ima are rep of the var in the dat .
we als eva on the dif bin pro of cla - ing odd dig vs .
eve dig .
tha is , we gro 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 int two cla .
the are 123 ima per dig ( 123 per cla ) .
it is a dif dat bec the tar con is rat art on the oth han thi dat res syn dat 123 ( fig 123 ) whe eac cla has sev int clu .
the exp set is the sam as abo exc tha we run for 123 ite .
fig 123 sho the res .
aga act lea is sup - rio tha the bas .
we als see tha odd vs .
eve is a har con whi tak act lea abo 123 que to app lea .
the dig sho are the 123 mos fre que ins in the rst 123 ite acr all tri .
wit 123 ins thi dat is als the lar and slo .
wit a nai mat imp , the cal - cul tak rou 123 sec per ite on a 123 lin mac .
in con , the 123 vs .
123 dat re - qui ve sec per ite , whi all of the 123 new - gro dat tak les tha two sec per ite .
we nal not tha if we tra an svm on the act que cho fro the har fun ris min - tio pro , the acc is alw wor tha our pro - pos act lea met , and oft eve wor tha
the svm on ran que .
we hav pro an app to act lea whi is tig cou wit sem - sup lea usi gau - sia eld and har fun .
the alg sel que to min an app to the exp gen - era err .
exp on tex cat and han dig rec ind tha the act lea - ing alg can be hig eff .
