we pre a nov tex - to - pic sys tha syn - siz a pic fro gen , unr nat lan - gua tex .
the pro is ana to tex - to - spe syn , but wit pic out tha con the gis of the tex .
our sys int mul ai com - nen , inc nat lan pro , com vis , com gra , and mac lea .
we pre an int fra tha com the com by rst ide inf and pic - tur tex uni , the sea for the mos lik ima par con on the tex , and nal opt - ing the pic lay con on bot the tex and ima par .
the eff of our sys is ass in two use stu usi chi boo and new ar - tic .
exp sho tha the syn pic con as muc inf abo chi sto as the ori art ill , and muc mor inf - mat abo new art tha the ori pho alo .
the res sug tha tex - to - pic syn - sis has gre pot in aug hum - com and hum - hum com mod , wit ap - pli in edu and hea car , amo oth .
a pic is wor a tho wor .
how , ver few sys con gen tex to pic rep tha can be use in man cir to rep or aug the tex .
we pre a nov tex - to - pic ( ttp ) syn - sis sys whi aut gen pic , tha aim to con the pri con of gen nat lan tex .
fig 123 sho a pic aut gen by our ttp sys .
our sys emp ai tec ran fro nat lan pro , com vis , com - put gra , to mac lea .
we int the com - pon int a con syn , whe the syn of tex uni sel , ima par gen , and lay op - tim pro coh nal pic .
for exa , we use pic to inu wor sel , and use wor imp to inu the lay of the pic
we tha the ano rev for the con com - men .
res sup in par by the wis alu re - cop c ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ass for the adv of art int ( www . aaa . org ) .
all rig res .
hay to the
fig 123 : a pic gen by our ttp sys .
det , as wel as an app eva met , are pre - sen .
use stu exp sho tha par de - scr of ttp col con wor tha are a clo ( or equ ) mat to the ori tex tha the des of ori ill or pho tha acc the tex .
ttp has man app whe a tex int is not app .
one imp app is lit dev - men .
for chi who are lea to rea and for sec - ond lan lea , see pic tog wit tex may enh lea ( may 123 ) .
ano app is as a rea aid for peo wit lea dis or bra dam .
ttp can con tex men , sig , and saf and ope ins int gra rep - tio .
imp , ttp out can be cre on dem by a use and doe not dep on a ven to pro it .
eve - tua , a per mig car a pda equ wit ttp and opt cha rec so tha the per cou gen - era vis tra as nee dur the dai act - tie .
ttp nat act as a uni lan whe com - mun is nee sim to man peo who spe dif lan , for exa for air pub an - nou ( mih & leo 123 ) .
ttp can pro vis sum for rap bro lon tex doc .
the cur wor dif fro pre tex - to - sce typ sys in its foc on con the gis of gen , unr - str tex .
pre sys wer oft mea to be use by gra des as an alt way to spe the lay of a sce .
suc tex - to - sce sys ten to emp - siz spa rea .
exa inc nal ( ado , man , & giu 123 ) , spr ( yam et al .
123 ) , put ( cla & wil 123 ) and , not , wor - eye ( coy & spr 123 ) .
wor is abl to pro hig rea 123 sce by uti tho of pre - den 123 pol obj mod wit det man tag , and dee sem rep of the tex .
con - que , wor wor bes wit cer des sen - ten , e . g . , the law mow is 123 fee tal .
joh pus the law mow .
the cat is 123 fee beh joh .
the cat is 123 fee tal .
oth sys inc ( bro & cha 123 lu & zha 123 ) .
car ( joh et al .
123 ) con spe - dom nar on roa acc int an ani sce usi ico .
bli ( heh 123 ) and oth gra sym sys cre sym - for - wor str rat tha a coh pic tha con a glo
the tex - to - pic sys
let the inp tex be a wor seq w12 : n of len n .
in our con ttp syn , we rst use nat lan - gua pro tec to sel k key ( imp - tan wor or phr fou wit w12 : n ) to dra .
the for eac sel key , we use com vis tec - niq to nd a cor ima ii .
( we use the wor pic to den the ove com out , whi im - age to den the ind con . ) fin we use com gra tec to spa arr all k im - age to cre the out pic .
to int the com - pon tog , we for the ttp pro as ndi the mos lik key k 123 : k , and pla 123 : k giv the inp tex w12 : n :
in our imp , the pla ci of ima i is spe - ed by the cen coo , but oth fac suc as sca , rot and dep can be inc too .
to mak the opt pro tra , we fac the pro
123 : k ) = arg , i , c p ( k , i , c|w : n ) .
123 : k , ima i
p ( k , i , c|w ) = p ( k|w ) p ( i|k , w ) p ( c|i , k , w ) ,
and app the joi max of eq .
( 123 ) by the max - imi of eac fac in eq .
( 123 ) , as des bel .
sel key giv a pie of tex , e . g . , a sen or a who boo , the rst que is , whi key sho be sel to for the pic ? for , we sol the sub
123 : k = arg p ( k|w ) .
our app is bas on ext pic key sum .
tha is , it bui on sta key - bas tex sum ( tur 123 mih & tar 123 ) , whe key and key are ext fro the tex bas on lex cue .
the cen iss in key - wor sum is to est the imp of lex uni .
we do so usi an uns lea app bas on the tex alg ( mih & tar 123 ) .
tex den a gra ove can wor bas on co - occ in the cur tex , and use the sta dis - but of a tel ran wal on the gra as the im - por mea .
our nov is tha we inc a spe
tel dis ove the wor in the gra .
our tel dis is bas on pic , whi mea the pro of ndi a goo ima for a wor .
our app thu sel key tha are imp to the mea of the tex and are als eas to rep by an the tex gra fol mih and ta - rau ( 123 ) , we den the tex gra ove ind wor .
the ran of the wor wil be use lat to con - str the nal set of lon key .
all nou , pro nou , and adj ( exc tho in a sto lis ) are sel as can wor usi a par - of - spe tag .
we the bui a co - occ gra wit eac wor as a ver .
we rep thi unw gra as a co - occ mat , whe ent ij is 123 if ter i and ter j co - occ wit a win of siz 123
tel dis bas on pic we bas eac gra ver tel pro on whe we are lik to nd an ima for the cor wor .
we cal thi mea pic and com it usi a log reg mod .
the pic log re - gre mod was tra on a man - lab set of 123 wor , ran sel fro a lar voc .
fiv an - not ind lab the wor .
a wor is lab as pic ( y = 123 ) if an ann is abl to dra or nd a goo ima of the wor .
whe sho the ima , oth peo - ple sho be abl to gue the wor its or a sim wor .
wor lab as non - pic ( y = 123 ) lac a cle rec - ogn ass ima ( e . g . , dig ) .
we rep a wor usi 123 can fea , der fro the log - rat bet 123 raw cou .
we obt the raw cou fro var web sta , suc as the num - ber of hit fro ima and web pag sea eng ( e . g . , goo , yah ! , fli ) in res to a que of the wor .
we per for fea sel wit l12 - reg log reg .
the log - rat bet goo ima sea hit cou and goo web sea hit cou dom - nat all oth fea in ter of cro - val log lik - lih .
wit the pra con tha a lig sys sho req as few raw web cou as pos , we de - cid to cre a mod wit onl thi one fea .
iti , num of ima vs .
web pag is a goo pic - bil fea tha mea ima fre wit res to wor fre .
the res pic log reg - sio mod is
p ( y = 123 ) =
123 + exp ( ( 123 + 123 ) )
( c12 + 123 ) / ( c12 + 123 )
whe x = log is the log ra - tio bet smo cou c12 ( goo ima hit ) and c12 ( goo web hit ) , and 123 is a smo con to pre zer cou .
for exa , the wor ban has 123 , 123 goo ima hit and 123 , 123 , 123 web hit .
we nd tha p ( y = 123 ) = 123 , mea ban is pro a pic wor .
on the oth han , the wor bay has 123 , 123 goo ima hit and 123 , 123 , 123 web hit , so p ( y = 123 ) = 123 , ind it is not so pic .
we use eq .
( 123 ) to com a pic val for eac can wor in the tex gra .
the val are nor to for the tel dis vec r .
det the fin key to obt the ran - ing of wor , we com the sta dis of the tel ran wal
p + ( 123 ) 123
whe p is the gra - bas tra mat ( i . e . , row - nor co - occ mat ) and r is the tel dis den abo .
thi is the sam com use by pag .
is an int wei , whi we set to 123 , and 123 is an all - one vec .
the sta dis - but ind the cen or rel imp of eac wor in the gra , tak int acc pic .
we se - lec the 123 wor wit the hig sta pro , and for key by mer adj ins of the sel wor ( as lon as the res phr has a pic - tur pro gre tha 123 ) .
nex , we dis phr lac nou , mul cop of the sam phr , and phr tha are sub by oth lon phr .
the end res is a lis of key tha app imp and are lik to be rep by an ima .
fin , eac ex - tra key ki is ass an imp sco s ( ki ) , whi is equ to the ave sta pro of the wor com it .
i = arg
sel ima the goa of thi sta is to nd one ima to rep eac ext key .
our alg han eac key i ) , i = 123 .
our ima sel mod com two sou to nd suc an ima .
fir , we use a man lab cli li - bra .
sec , if the key can be fou in the li - bra , we use an ima sea eng and com vis tec .
com the two sou ens acc re - sul for com key , whi are lik to exi in the lib , and goo res for oth arb key .
we foc on the sec sou bel .
ima sea eng are not per , whi mea man ima ret do not vis rep the key the rst ima ret by an im - age sea eng is oft not a goo ima to dep the key .
our app to sel the bes ima fro sea res , whi is sim to the met by ben - hai et al .
( 123 ) , con of the fol ste .
fir , the top 123 ima for thi key are ret usi goo ima sea .
nex , eac ima is seg int a set of dis reg usi an ima seg alg ( fel - szw & hut 123 ) .
par for the alg wer set so tha , on ave , eac ima is seg int a sma num of seg so tha ove - seg of the obj of int is les lik .
for eac reg ext in eac ima , we nex com - put a fea vec to des the app of tha re - gio .
col his hav bee sho to per wel for dat of arb col pho ( des , key - ser , & ney 123 ) .
we com a vec of col fea
fig 123 : the ima sel pro on thr ret im - age for the wor pyr .
seg bou are ove on the ima .
the reg clo to the cen of the lar clu is ind by the arr , and tha ima is sel as the bes for the wor .
to des eac reg .
spe , the col his in luv col spa of all pix in a reg is com .
the l com is the qua int 123 bin , and the uv pai of val are qua int 123 bin , res in a fea vec of siz 123
the fea vec in all ima are now clu in fea - tur spa .
ass the are sev reg tha cor - spo to the key and the app are sim , we exp to nd a com clu in fea spa .
we use the mea shi clu alg ( com & mee 123 ) .
ass tha reg cor to bac par of an ima are not as sim to one ano as the reg tha cor to the key , we tre the lar clu as the one tha is mos lik to cor to the key .
onc the lar clu is fou , we nd the reg who fea vec is clo to the cen of thi clu .
the ima whi con thi reg is the sel as the bes ima for thi key .
fig 123 sho an exa of the res of thi alg .
pic lay the thi and nal sta tak the tex , the key , and the ass ima , and det a 123 spa lay of the ima , c 123 : k = arg p ( c|w , k , i ) , to cre the out pic .
our pro of com a set of ima is sim to the pro of cre pic col , e . g . , ( wan et al .
how , our goa is to cre a lay tha hel to con the mea of the tex by rev the imp - tan obj and the rel .
sin we are int in han unr tex , we do not ass the ava of sem kno or obj rec com , rel ins on the str of the tex and gen lay - out rul tha mak the pic int rea .
to thi end , we rst sca all the ima to mak the rou the sam siz .
to det the bes loc for the ima , we den a goo lay to hav the fol thr pro - 123
min ove : ove bet ima sho be
cen : imp ima sho be nea the cen ,
clo : ima cor to key tha are
clo in the inp tex sho be clo in the pic .
fin the bes pos for all the ima is for as an opt pro to min the obj :
whe s are wei , o ( ii , ij ) is the are of ove be - twe pic ii and ij , ato is the sum of the are of all ima , s ( ki ) is the imp of key ki , d ( ii ) is the dis of ima ii fro the cen of the pic , and q ( i , j ) is an ind fun den as
q ( i , j ) =
if the clo con is vio
the clo con is vio if two key , ki and kj , are clo in the tex but the cor ima , ii and ij , are not tou in the pic .
two key are sai to be clo if the are les tha 123 wor apa and no oth key sep the in the inp tex .
to sol thi hig non - con opt pro , we use a mon car ran alg to con mul - ple can pic and the pic the one tha min the obj fun .
at eac ste of the alg for con a can pic , one ima is sel and its pos in the pic is det .
whe all ima hav bee sel , the can pic is com .
the mos imp ima is alw pla rst at the cen of the pic .
to sel the nex ima to add to the pic , we mak a ran dec bet sel an ima bas on imp or bas on obe clo con .
to sel an ima bas on imp , a ran - dom ima is sel fro the rem ima , whe the pro of sel ima ii is s ( kj ) and the sum - mat is ove all rem ima ij .
rec tha s ( ki ) is ima iis ass key imp .
to cho an ima bas on clo con , an ima is sel , uni at ran , fro the rem ima tha are clo to one of the ima alr pla .
a loc gra des mov is use to rem any ove bet im -
the pro of cre a can pic is rep a lar num of tim ( cur 123 ) , and the bes pic ( wit the low obj fun ) is sel as the nal res .
bra - and - bou was als imp so tha a par pic is imm rej if the obj fun - tio exc tha of the bes pic fou so far .
fig 123 sho an exa of the pic lay opt pro -
to ass the sys per , an eva mea was use to gau the amo of inf con by the pic pro .
the use is sho the gen - ate pic alo wit the ori tex , and is ask to wri dow the mea of the pic in tex .
suc use - gen tex , u , is aut com to the ori
fig 123 : the min val of the obj fun as a fun of the num of can pic gen .
at sel poi , the bes lay fou is sho .
clo con wer ( a , b ) , ( b , c ) and ( c , d ) .
dar ima rep - sen mor imp key .
( ref ) the lar cho hor tro in the pas .
( use ) the bro hor run in the gra .
fig 123 : an exa ttp ali for eva .
ref tex , r , use to gen the pic .
the ass - tio is tha the clo u is to r , the bet the ttp sys , bec the use get mor cor inf out of the pic .
thi pro is sim to the gam of pic .
the key to thi mea is an app sim fun - tio to com u and r .
for exa , as sho in fig 123 , ass the ttp sys gen a pic fro the ref - enc sen r =th lar cho - col hor tro - ted in the pas , and , dur eva , the use pro the sen u =th bro hor run in the gra .
not sev wor are dif but sim ( i . e . , sub ) .
ins and del can occ too .
int , we wan two thi sim .
on one han , the use sen u sho hav all the wor in the ref sen r ( so imp con are cov ) .
thi can be cap by rec ( r ) .
the sta rou mea for tex sum ( lin & hov 123 ) is suc a rec - bas mea .
on the oth han , the use sen u sho not hav too man irr wor ( oth u can alw be the ent voc , whi wou per cov r ) .
thi can be cap by pre ( p ) .
the sta - dar ble mea for mac tra ( pap et al .
123 ) is suc a pre - bas mea .
sin bot rec and pre are imp for eva - ing ttp sys , we com the and com the sta - dar f - sco , f = 123 r / ( p + r ) .
in ord to com pre and rec , we nee to ( i ) han ( nea ) syn , and ( ii ) den an ali bet the ref and use
we add the syn iss by den a sub fun tha tak a pai of wor and ret a sim mea bet the .
for exa , the sub fun - tio ret 123 if the two wor are ide or sha the sam
ste ( e . g . , run vs .
the fun ret a sco les tha 123 if the two wor are syn ( e . g . , pas and gra , mar and hor ) .
sev wor - bas sim mea exi ( e . g . , ( ped , pat , & mic 123 ) ) .
the res rep her use a sim tha dec exp ( by a fac of 123 ) as the num of lev be - twe the two wor in the wor lat inc .
wor mor tha thr lev apa rec a sub sco of 123
usi the sub fun , a gre ali al - gor was den .
tha is , amo all ref - use wor pai , the pai wit the hig sub sco is pic .
all pai con eit one of the two wor are rem , and the pro is the rep unt wor pai are exh .
in the exa in fig 123 , the res of gre ali is sho wit the ass sub - tio sco of 123 for ide wor and 123 for syn .
let a ( w ) be the sub sco att to wor w af - ter ali , and |u| and |r| be the len of u and r , re - spe .
the sof pre , rec , and f - sco , whi use sub and ali , are p = i=1 a ( ui ) / |r| , f = 123 r / ( p + r ) .
for the exa in fig 123 , p = 123 / 123 , r = 123 / 123 , and the nal f - sco is 123 .
not tha the act eva mea ign sto wor in bot sen .
use stu wer con to ass the ttp sys per - for in two sce : chi boo ill and new art vis sum .
in the rst sce , ttp was use to pro pic to rep sho tex tha ori fro sin pag of ill chi boo .
our hop is tha ttp - gen pic con as muc in - for con as the ori ill pre in the chi boo .
in the sec sce , we exa ttp abi to pre a vis sum of a new art , whi is mor des tha the ori new pho .
we hop to sho tha , whi the new pho oft lac eno det for a vie to det the mai ide in the art , com the pho wit a ttp - gen com pic all the use to und the gis of chi boo ill for the rst use stu , the ttp sys was use to ill 123 ran sel tex fro a lar poo of chi boo .
the tex ran fro 123 to 123 wor and spa one or mor sen .
fig - ure 123 sho the ttp out pro for one exa tex .
not eac tex als has an ori ill , so the are 123 pic in all ( 123 ttp , 123 ill ) .
use wer ask to wri a sho tex des ( i . e . , the use tex ) of eac of the 123 pic , so we can com whe the ttp pic or the ill is bet at pre the mea - ing of the ori sto ( i . e . , ref tex ) .
ast use may be abl to gur out whi ill and ttp pic pre the sam sto , and thu may hav mor inf - tio whe des the lat of the pai .
to cou thi phe , we dis all the ttp - gen pic - tur ( in ran ord ) bef all the ill ( in dif -
nos and big she had a
fig 123 : a ttp pic for the abo tex .
not the mon ima obt fro ima sea rep , inc , the key sof eye .
ent ran ord ) .
thi act giv the boo ill an adv , sin use mig hav rem ttp pic - tur of the sam sto sho bef ( and thu are abl to men det not exp ill ) .
six par pro 123 sho tex des eac , ran fro a few wor to a few sen .
for exa , the res for the ttp pic in fig 123 wer : a gir pet put its paw on her nos .
the dog wal up to the gir and sni her .
the dog bit the gir in her nos and ran awa .
the gir nos sme the dog and mon as the wal awa .
the gir wal her dog and saw a hai man wit a big nos .
the gir mon nos sme dog paw pri .
not tha the act boo ill sho onl a gir sit - tin on a sof hug a lar dog .
whi the res for tha pic ( e . g . , the gir and her gia dog hug on the cou . ) ten to be acc des , the als dif gre fro the tru tex of the sto .
pos - stu , we com eac of the use tex to the cor - res ref tex usi the f - sco int ear - lie .
the sca plo in fig 123 ( a ) sho the rel bet f - sco bas on ttp pic ( x - axi ) and f - sco bas on ori ill ( y - axi ) .
eac poi rep - sen one use sco for one of the 123 sto .
jus ove hal ( 123 ) of the poi fal bel the dia .
if we ave - age out ind use dif by com the poi for the sam sto , 123 of the agg poi fal be - low the dia ( i . e . , ttp hel rec the ref tex bet in 123 of the 123 cas ) .
ave ove all sto and all use , the f - sco bas on ttp pic is 123 tim the ave f - sco bas on the han - dra ill , sug tha the ttp pro use wit a pic tha con alm ( but not qui ) as muc inf as the tex ori ill .
new art vis sum in the sec stu , 123 ass pre new art ( 123 wor , plu one pho ) wer ran sel fro dif do - mai .
her , the goa is to inv ttp abi to aug - men a sim new pho wit mor inf
( a ) chi boo
( b ) new art
fig 123 : sca plo com ttp pic ( x - axi ) vs .
chi boo ill or new pho ( y - axi ) .
we rst sho eac rea pho , fol by the pho - gra nex to the ttp - gen pic .
not tha in suc a lon art , the wil be man pot pic ite , but the key ext alg sel the one mos cen to the tex mea .
to eva the dif in inf pro by the ori and com pic , the f - sco was com usi the use tex and the cor - res ful art tex .
giv the len of the ful tex com to a typ use res , we exp the sco to be low , but we car onl abo the dif bet the pic sou .
eig par pro 123 use tex eac .
fig 123 ( b ) plo f - sco usi pho pic - tur ( x - axi ) ver f - sco bas on ori pho alo ( y - axi ) , whe eac poi rep a sin use on a sin art .
123 of the poi lie bel the dia , and if we ave ove use , 123 of the agg poi lie bel the dia .
the ove ave f - sco bas on ttp - aug pic is 123 tim the ave f - sco bas on the ori new pho alo .
thi ind - cat tha ttp ren a vis rep tha is far su - per in con the new art tha its ori pho - gra .
thi is to be exp , as the pho typ sho onl a sin per or sce , whe the art dis man ent tha the ttp pic cap .
ove , the exp sho tha our ttp sys con as muc or mor of the con of the tex thr the gen pic , tha the ori ill or pho - tos tha acc the tex .
we pre a gen - pur tex - to - pic syn sys , bui upo a syn of ai com usi nat lan pro , com vis and gra , and ma - chi lea .
two use stu qua dem the ttp sys abi to gen pic tha con the gis of inp tex .
the cur wor is a rst ste tow aut pro pic tha rea dep ar - bit tex .
fut wor inc inc con to pro sce , per dee sem ana , and dep act wit ani .
we pla to inv sev ttp app , inc lit dev for chi and reh for bra - inj pat .
