we com two rec pro fra for com - ing gen and dis pro cla and app the to sem - sup cla .
in bot cas we exp the tra bet max a dis lik of lab dat and a gen lik of la - bel and unl dat .
whi pro sem - sup lea met ass low den reg bet cla or are sub to gen mod ass , we con - jec tha hyb gen / dis met all sem - sup lea in the pre of str ove - pin cla and red the ris of mod str in the unl dat tha is irr for the spe cla tas of int .
we app bot hyb app wit nai str mar ran eld mod and pro - vid a tho emp com wit two wel - kno sem - sup lea met on six tex cla tas .
a sem - sup hyb gen / dis met pro the bes acc in 123 of the exp - men , and the mul - con lea hyb app ach the hig ove mea acc acr all tas .
cat and sub des
i . 123 ( art int ) : lea
alg , exp , per
sem - sup lea , hyb gen / dis met , tex cla
per to mak dig or har cop of all or par of thi wor for per or cla use is gra wit fee pro tha cop are not mad or dis for pro or com adv and tha cop bea thi not and the ful cit on the rst pag .
to cop oth , to rep , to pos on ser or to red to lis , req pri spe per and / or a fee .
kdd , aug 123 , 123 , san jos , cal , usa .
cop 123 acm 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 . . . $12 .
mos mac lea met rel on the ava of lar lab dat .
how , hum ann is tim - con , mak lab dat cos to obt in pra .
mot by thi pro , res hav pro sem - sup lea met tha lev lar amo of rel ine unl dat alo wit sma amo of lab dat .
the inc int in app - ing mac lea to new dom and the vas ava - ity of unl dat fro the web and els are dri int in sem - sup lea .
sem - sup lea is esp rel for app - tio in dat min , as whe ini ana dat fro a new dom , obt any lab dat req lab - ous hum ann .
the low eor app to dat min wou use uns lea .
how , sup - vis lea met typ pro bet , mor tas -
for exa , con the pro of cla mes as bel to a mac har or pc har new .
alt the are wor fea in the dat rel to thi tas ( suc as pow ind mac , or del ind - ing pc ) , bec mac and pc pos hav hig wor ove , an uns clu alg cou dis man die way to par thi dat .
for exa , mes abo har dri or net may app as clu , but the clu may not be dir rel to the cla - tio tas of int .
if pos as a sup cla tas , how , wit lab exa fro eac new , the cla wil lea to foc on the fea rel to the mac pc tas , and mak the des sep .
tra met for mac lea cla are oft cha as bei gen or dis .
gen - era tra est the joi dis of all var - abl , bot the cla and the inp dat , whi dis - ina tra is con onl wit the dec bou - ary .
cla tra dis see to hav low asy err tha ana gen - tra cla - ers bec , int , the are abl to foc lim rep - res cap on pre jus the cla var .
how , dis app do not alw pro the hig acc .
whe the amo of tra dat is sma , gen tra can pro bet acc eve whe the mod is not a ver goo t to the dat .
ng and jor dem thi , com nai bay and log
mot by the obs , sev res hav pro hyb met tha com gen and dis - cri tra .
the hyb met hav del pro res in the dom of tex cla ( 123 , 123 ) , pix cla ( 123 ) , and obj rec ( 123 , 123 ) ,
a var of sem - sup tec hav bee de - vel for bot gen and dis mod .
a str , gen sem - sup met is the exp max ( em ) alg .
the em ap - pro for nai bay tex cla mod is dis by nig et al .
in ( 123 ) .
gen sem - sup met - ods rel on a mod for the dis of the inp dat , and can fai eit whe thi mod is wro , or whe the str of the inp dat is not cor wit the cla - sic tas ( as ill in the mac - pc exa abo ) .
dis sem - sup met , inc pro - bil and non - pro app , suc as tra - tiv or sem - sup sup vec mac ( tsv , s12 ) ( 123 , 123 ) and a var of oth gra bas met - ods ( 123 , 123 ) ass hig den wit cla and low den bet cla , and can fai whe the cla are str ove .
hen , the app for sem - sup lea in dis cla als use mod ass - tio abo the str of the inp dat , but typ do not enc the ass as exp mod of inp
in thi pap , we app hyb gen / dis met to sem - sup lea .
we com two re - cen pro app to com gen and dis - cri met in det .
the rst is mul - con lea ( 123 ) , a cla of tra obj fun com - pos of the pro of mul lik tha sha one set of par and are der fro an und joi mod .
we for the sem - sup tra pro in ter of the opt of a mul - con obj fun tha is a wei com of a dis lik of lab dat and a mar lik of bot lab and unl dat .
we als con a fra pro by las et al .
( 123 ) whi we hen ref to as the par cou pri 123 met .
in thi app , the dis and gen com der fro a com joi mod hav sep set of par .
the par are cou by a pri dis tha spe how one set of par inu the oth .
bot of the hyb app can be int as dis - cri cla tra usi the mar lik of the inp dat as par reg .
we con - tur tha for man pro thi for of reg is mor hel tha typ dis reg ap - pro pen dec bou pas thr re - gio of hig mar den .
in con , the gen - ati / dis hyb are not con to avo low - den reg bet cla whe pla dec bou .
add , the are abl to bal bet lev inn clu in the inp dat ( whi may or may not be use ) and tas - spe evi fro the la - bel dat ( whi may or may not be rep ) .
hy - bri met can avo rel on gen mod as -
123 not tha par cou pri is a sho nam we dev to ref to the wor of las , bis , and min .
thi ter is not use in the pap .
sum by emp the dis lik dur - ing max .
in sum , the met all us to avo the ass of dis sem - sup ap - pro and mit the ass of gen sem - sup met .
by emp eac com of the obj fun app , the all sem - sup lea in cas tha oth met fai .
in add to the mot pro abo , the con -
but of thi pap are :
we app mul - con lea to sem - sup
we com the mul - con lea app wit a fra rec pro by las , et al .
in ( 123 ) .
we sub thi met to muc mor tho - oug eva tha was pro in ( 123 ) ( onl one dat , no com to oth met ) .
we imp the mod - ind app in a nai str mar ran eld mod and der the app gra .
we pro an emp com of the two ap -
pro alo wit two oth pro sem - sup met for cla .
a hyb met out - for oth met in 123 of the exp and the mul - con lea app giv the hig ove mea acc .
two gen gen -
fir , we den the lea pro .
sup we hav dat d = dl du , whe dl and du rep the lab and unl dat , res .
eac exa in dl is a pai ( y , x ) , whe the vec y has len equ to the num of cla and a 123 in the pos cor to the ind of the cor cla ( oth ent are 123 ) .
vec x has len equ to the num of fea of the inp and eac pos con the val of a par fea for thi exa .
in du , eac exa is onl ( x ) , as the val of y is hid .
in the cas of doc cla , for exa , eac exa cor to a doc , and eac pos in x mig con the num of tim a par
not tha x can be dec int pn n = p|x
i wi , whe i xi , so tha eac wi cor to the eve of obs a fea .
vec wi has a sin 123 in one pos and 123 els .
for exa , in doc cla wi rep a wor occ .
ano occ of the sam wor in the doc wou cor to sep eve wk .
thi dec of x int ind eve is use for und the gra mod int in sec 123
fir , we dis two mod - ind hyb 123 mul - con lea
mul - con lea ( 123 ) is a cla of tra obj - tiv fun com of the pro of mul wei lik , eac wit par der fro the sam un - der joi mod .
an adv of the mul - con
fra is the exi it all to cra an obj fun for a spe lea tas .
for exa , an obj - tiv fun com of the pro of wei dis - nat lik for mul tas is a nat fra for tra lea or mul lea ( 123 ) .
mcc et al .
( 123 ) com dis and gen - tiv lik usi the mul - con obj fun -
p ( y |x; ) p ( x|y ; )
tra tex cla mod wit thi obj fun - tio was fou to pro imp in cla ac - cur .
her , we exp sem - sup tra in ter of a mul - con obj fun by com the wei dis lik of the lab dat and the wei mar lik of lab and unl dat .
thi obj fun is :
o ( ) = p ( yl| ) p ( x; ) ,
whe xl and yl den the lab dat and the ter p ( x; ) inc bot lab and unl dat .
it is con to max the nat log of o : lno ( ) = ln p ( yl| ) + ln p ( x; )
we cho the mod par tha max o :
= arg max
in equ ( 123 ) , inc giv mor wei to the dis - cri com dur max , whi inc - ing giv mor wei to the gen com .
a pra con is tha eac com and its gra - die may be die in sca .
not tha p ( yl| ) is a dis is ove the num of lab , and p ( x; ) is a dis ove the num of fea .
thi mea tha if the dis wer uni the mag of the log - lik for the gen com wou be muc sma tha tha of the dis com .
add - tio , in sem - sup lea the num of lab exa is typ muc sma tha the num of un - lab exa , so the sum ins eac lik cal - lat hav a die num of ter .
thi mak it di - cul to cho val of in an int way .
cho = 123 and = 123 doe not cor to max wit 123 of the wei on the dis com , as the dis gra mag ten to be lar tha tho of the gen com .
one pot sol to thi pro is to nor eac of the com so tha the hav the sam mag - nit , and wei the nor com .
in non - log spa , nor eac com cor to rai eac com to a pow x .
if x > 123 , the thi mak the pro dis mor pea , whe if x < 123 , the pro dis is att .
sin p ( yl| ) is con , str or att it sho mak lit die - enc in ter of the abi of a gra - bas opt to nd the max .
how , p ( x; ) is not con , and con att it cou act cha the max - mum fou by the max , if x is sma eno to su - cie smo the dis .
bec the gen lik - lih is sma in mag and att it by rai it
to a pow x < 123 may be det , we avo nor - tio and set = 123 and >> .
the die in the mag of the lik cou als cau max to app to con whe one com con the cha in the oth .
to dea wit thi iss , we ada con cri so tha tra con onl whe bot com , con ind - den , hav con .
in add to the ter abo , we use a sta zer -
mea gau pri ove par :
ln p ( ) |||
123 par cou pri
in the app of las , et al .
( 123 ) , whi aga we ref to as the par cou pri app , the gen - era and dis com hav sep set of par .
the two set of par are joi tra and are cou usi a pri dis .
fol ( 123 ) , we den the joi dis of fea x , cla y , and par d and g ( for the dis and gen - tiv mod , res ) as :
p ( x , y , d , g ) = p ( d , g ) p ( y |x; d ) p ( x; g )
let us con two spe cas of pri .
if the pri p ( d , g ) con d = g , the we hav a gen - tiv mod bas on the joi dis .
p ( x , y , g ) = p ( g ) p ( x , y ; g )
if the pri ass tha the two set of par are ind p ( d , g ) = p ( d ) p ( g ) , the we hav : p ( x , y , d , g ) = p ( d ) p ( y |x; d ) ( p ( g ) p ( x; g ) ) in oth wor , if the und joi mod is suc tha the par of the mar mod and the con mod are com ind , the the ter ins the bra are con wit res to d , and hen pla no rol in cla .
the , thi is a dis
a pri tha imp a sof con tha the par mus be sim all ble of the gen and dis - cri .
as in ( 123 ) , we cou the two set of par by a pri of the for :
ln p ( d , g ) = ||d g||
las et al .
not tha the gen com p ( x; g ) can mak use of unl dat , and can hen be use for sem - sup lea .
exp res on one dat usi the abo pri dem the pot for sem - sup lea usi thi met .
it is imp to not tha the two app des abo are mod - ind bec the onl spe the for of the obj fun .
we can der con ver of the obj fun for a spe gra mod .
her , we app the to a mar ran eld
the gra of ly| wit res to par y is sim .
the log mar lik for p ( x ) is
and has gra
( exp ( yy + yt t
xy x ) ) ln z
( exp ( yy + yt t
xy x ) ) ln z
y ( exp ( yy + yt t
y ( exp ( yy + yt t
i ex , y ( xyt )
fig 123 : a fac gra for a nai - str mak ran eld mod .
( mrf ) mod , an und gra mod .
the mod is str so tha the inp var wi are con ind giv the cla y .
thi can be int as an und ana to nai bay mod .
for thi rea - son we ref to thi spe str as a nai str mrf .
the fac gra for thi mod is sho in fig 123
we cou als use the tra obj fun in mor com mod wit hid top var or mod
we est the par of the mod by ndi the par tha max the obj fun den in sec 123
we use gra met to nd the max - imu .
bel we den the obj fun for the nai - str mrf mod , and com the gra .
the com of eac obj are der fro the joi dis of the mod giv by :
whe z = p
p ( y , x ) =
y y + yt t
y y + yt t
xyx ) is a nor fac tha ens a tru pro dis .
fir , we der the gra for the dis com of the obj fun , the con log - lik ly| = log p ( y|x ) , whe y and x den obs and
xy x ln z ( x ) ,
y y + yt t
exp ( yy + yt t
the gra is the com as
ex , y ( xyt ) ex
y exp ( yy + yt t
y exp ( yy + yt t
whe ex ( ) den the exp und p ( x ) and ex ( ) den an exp und the emp dis of
for the mul - con obj fun , the par mat xy and y are the sam for bot the dis - tiv and gen com .
for the par cou pri met , xy and y are die for eac com and are cou by ( 123 ) .
the der of thi pri wit res to eac set of par is :
ln p ( d , g ) ||d g|| ln p ( d , g ) = d g ln p ( d , g ) = g d
if = 123 in the mul - con app or = in the par cou pri app , the the lx ter dro out of the obj fun and we onl max ly| whi use no unl dat .
max onl ly| in the nai mrf mod yie a max ent cla ( 123 ) .
we use max ent cla as the sup cou to our hyb sem - sup met .
we use lim - mem - bfg , a qua - new opt - tio met tha has bee sho to wor wel for max - mum ent mod ( 123 ) , in con wit the ada con cri dis in sec 123 .
not tha the mar den p ( x ) is not con , whi mea nei the mul - con nor the par cou pri ob - jec fun are con .
bec l - bfg is a con opt , we con to a loc max .
emp , we hav fou tha l - bfg req few tra ite con to bet max tha oth con opt .
usi a met to spe add the lac of con - ity may be ben , but is an iss we lea for fut
rel wor
123 sem - sup lea
alt man sem - sup met hav bee pro - pos , the eac fal int one of a sma num of cla of met , eac of whi mak cer ass .
co - tra ( 123 ) and rel mul - vie lea met ( 123 , 123 ) ass tha mul cla are tra ove mul fea vie ( spl ) of the sam lab exa .
as ca - pac con , the cla are enc to mak the
yw1 .
. sam pre on any unl exa .
how , mul - ple fea vie oft do not nat exi in pra , and the met res to art cre ran fea
gra bas sem - sup lea ( 123 , 123 ) ass tha lab and unl exa are con by a gra , whe edg rep sim bet exa .
the dis - cri fun is enc to var smo wit re - spe to the gra .
as a res , con nod ten to hav the sam lab .
one int of thi it is tha lab pro thr unl exa via gra edg .
how , the gra is usu con fro the dis in fea spa , and is sus to ove - pin cla .
ind if unl dat fro die cla str ove , the gra wil be wro , and the met can be exp to be inf to sup lea .
sem - sup or tra sup vec mac ( s12 , tsv ) ( 123 , 123 ) als ass tha the is a wid mar in ker ind fea spa bet unl dat fro die cla .
the mar may be die tha the tra mar of lab exa .
s12 att to pla the dec bou in the unl mar .
how , the are two iss : fir , suc mar may not exi if the cla str ove eve in the ker ind fea spa .
sec , s12 inv a hig non - con opt pro whi is dic to sol ( 123 ) .
gen sem - sup met bas on the exp - tat max ( em ) alg ass a mod for the inp dis .
in ( 123 ) nig , et al .
use the em al - gor in con wit a mix of mul , or nai bay , gen mod .
in the e ste , eac unl exa is ass a lab dis acc to its ex - pec val und the cur mod .
in the m ste , the mul par are re - est .
in pra thi mod can fai whe the ass of ind inp fea is vio or whe the bes gen str doe not cor to the dec bou .
123 gen dis hyb
the hav bee sev suc app of hyb gen / dis met in add to the two app tha are the foc of thi pap .
in man ap - pro , par are sep int two sub , one of whi is tra dis and the oth gen .
rai et al .
( 123 ) , pre a mod for doc cla - cat in whi doc are spl int mul reg .
for a new mes , reg mig inc the hea and the bod .
in thi mod , eac reg has its own set par tha are tra gen , whi the par - ete tha wei the imp of eac reg in the nal cla are tra dis .
exp re - sul sho tha thi hyb alg giv bet cla - tio acc tha eit nai bay or log reg ( a gen / dis pai ( 123 ) ) alo .
add , rai , et al .
sho tha bec the num of dis - tiv par in the mod is sma , onl a sma amo of tra dat is req to est the par .
kan and tia ( 123 ) ext nai bay by spl fea - tur int two set x12 and x12
the dir gra mod
for thi app has nod x12 as the par of the cla var y , and par x12 as the chi of y .
par - ete of thi mod are est by max p ( y |x1 ) ( the dis com ) , and p ( x12 ) ( the gen - tiv com ) .
an ite alg bas on cla - tio acc is use to dec whi fea go in x12
bou and tri ( 123 ) pro a met to tra - o gen and dis mod tha is sim to mul - con lea bec it max a wei com of two lik ter usi one set of par - ete .
den lge = ln p ( y , x ) and ldi = ln p ( y |x ) , bou and tri pre a com obj fun l = ln p ( x , y ) + ( 123 ) ln p ( y |x ) .
a sub die bet thi obj fun and tho pre her is tha in the app the gen com is the ful joi dis .
as in oth rel wor , exp res sho tha hig acc is obt som bet ful gen ( in thi cas = 123 ) and ful dis - cri ( = 123 ) .
sem - sup lea met are rar app in pra , in par bec the are few emp com - iso of mul sem - sup met .
add , man sem - sup exp use bin dat tha hav few fea and are eas sep .
her we pro - vid a sub com of two sem - sup hy - bri gen / dis met and two pro sem - sup lea met , as wel as the sup - vis cou , on mul - cla dat wit lar num - ber of fea .
we rst dis the sup / sem - sup pai of
met we use in the exp .
nai bay / em nai bay ( nb , emn ) we use the nai bay imp in the mal too ( 123 ) .
as in nig et . al ( 123 ) , we use lap ( plu - 123 ) smo - ing , so tha uns eve do not get zer pro .
svm / tra svm ( svm , tsv ) in our exp we use uni , an svm imp - tio int in ( 123 ) tha use the con - con pro - dur ( ccc ) to opt tra svm .
col et al .
sho tha opt tsv wit ccc imp ac - cur and dec tra tim whe com to oth heu met .
the tsv int sev hyp - ram tha nee to be tun .
in our exp , we tun c ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) and c ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , the cos par for the lab and unl dat , res .
col et al .
als tun the sym ram los for the unl dat , but doi a gri sea ove thr par , eac wit sev pos val , was not pra for lar - sca com - par .
we set the sym ram los par to 123 in all exp and use a lin ker .
alt we do not per nor of fea cou for oth met - ods , we nd tha thi is ver imp to ach rea -
abl tsv res and the nor fea vec to hav euc len 123 for the svm and tsv exp -
max ent / mul - con met ( me , mcl ) we use the imp of max ent mod in mal ( 123 ) and als use thi fra to imp the mul - con met .
for bot we tun the gau pri var 123 ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for the mul - con met , we als tun the rel wei of the dis com ( 123 , 123 ) at eve ord of mag .
we use = 123 for all exp .
see sec 123 for som dis of set for and .
par cou pri ( pcp ) we imp thi mod in mal ( 123 ) as wel .
fol las et al .
( 123 ) , we tun the par , whi is tra - lat int a val for , the str of the cou pri , 123 ) 123
we use = ( 123 , 123 ) in int of usi ( ) = ( 123 .
we use 123 = 123 for the gau pri on par , bec we nd tha tun thi val pro lit ben whe com to the ext tim it req ( we lat sho tha pcp req mor tim to tra tha the oth met - ods ) .
as abo , the sup cou for thi met is the max ent cla .
we run exp on ve tex cla dat and one sli - win seq lab cla dat .
for the tex cla dat , fea cor to wor occ cou .
for the ner tas , fea are bi - nar wor occ and pro of tho wor ( suc as cap ) wit thr tim ste .
sto , htm , mes hea ( whe app ) , and fea tha onl occ onc are rem fro all dat .
whe not , low fre fea are als rem .
mov ( 123 , 123 fea , 123 cla ) cla the sen - men of mov rev fro imd as pos or neg -
web ( 123 , 123 fea , 123 cla ) cla uni
web as stu , cou , fac , or pro .
sra ( 123 , 123 fea , 123 lab ) cla mes by the new to whi the wer pos : sim - avi , rea - avi , sim - aut , rea .
sec ( 123 , 123 fea 123 lab ) cla web
int spe ind sec .
blo ( 123 , 123 fea , 123 lab ) cla the age of a blo giv blo pos .
due to the lar num of fea in thi dat , tho tha occ les tha 123 tim are rem .
thi dat was int in
ner ( 123 , 123 fea , 123 lab ) sli - win nam -
ent rec usi the con 123 dat .
alt all dat are lab , we sim unl dat by ign the lab for som exa .
spe ,
we cho exa to rem lab ran , but en - sur tha the num of lab exa is the sam for eac cla as in ( 123 ) .
we tre the rem exa as unl , up to a max of 123 , 123 unl exa .
the suc of sem - sup lea is dep on the qua of the see set of lab exa .
the , we ave res ove ve ran lab set .
we rep acc on a hel - out tes dat , rat tha rep ac - cur on the unl dat , as is don wit tsv ( 123 ) .
man sem - sup met int hyp - ter inc gra met ( 123 , 123 ) and tsv ( 123 ) .
we dis the iss of cho hyp and pro som heu tha red the nee for hyp tun for gen / dis met in sec 123 .
for the exp we use a gri sea to nd the bes set , and use par set tha giv the bes tes set acc , as als in ( 123 ) .
the , the res can the be int as an ind of the pot of the met , tho fur res is nee for pra - tic par tun .
123 res and dis
cla acc res are pre in tab 123
eit mcl or pcp ach the hig acc in 123 of the exp , and mcl and pcp ach the lar mea acc imp ove the sup cou - par at 123 and 123 , res .
add , mcl is the onl met to sho sem - sup imp on eve dat .
fig 123 ill tha for bot mcl and pcp the bes acc are att in the spa bet pur gen and pur dis .
we arg in the int tha hyb app are abl to avo or mit the ass of oth sem - sup met .
we wou lik to det if the cas in whi the hyb met per wel emp mat our int jus .
it is dic to qua - abl com the deg of ove cla or the deg to whi mod ass fai acr tex dat , but we can gai som ins by con the dat on whi hyb sem - sup met do wel and oth met
fir not tha nai bay per wor on dat sec and ner , in whi em nai bay giv low ac - cur tha sup nai bay .
add , des sem - sup imp , em nai bay giv muc low acc on blo tha oth met .
the thr dat hav the lar num of cla , mos com - cat and cor fea , and gre num of fea - tur , res .
hig cor fea cle vio the nai ass of fea ind .
we als ex - pec tha for the tas the nat clu in the dat wil not nec be cor wit the dec bou .
for exa , bot ner and blo inv a ver spe tas on tex tha inc a wid var of wor and top .
the hyb met are abl to mit the gen ass usi the dis com .
rel to the oth met , tsv per poo on ner and sra , cas in whi we exp cla to be str ove .
the sra dat con mes fro new - gro on sim avi , rea avi , sim aut
svm tsv me mcl
tab 123 : cla acc res .
par val ind the num of lab doc per
di me mcl
tab 123 : par wit lar pos and neg die in dis pow for the blo dat wit 123 lab doc per cla for lab age 123 - 123 bet sup and sem - sup wit the mul - con met .
the gau pri var for the max ent cla is 123 .
for the mcl met , = 123 and the gau pri var is 123 , cor to a cas whe the tes acc was 123 .
tab 123 : par wit lar pos and neg die in dis pow for the sra dat wit 123 lab doc per cla for lab rea avi bet sup and sem - sup wit the par cou pri met .
the gau pri var for the max ent cla is 123 .
for the pcp met , = 123 , cor to a cas whe the tes acc was 123 .
fig 123 : mea acc vs .
for hyb met .
the das lin rep the sup acc .
the bes acc are obt in the reg bet pur gen and pur dis .
rac , and rea aut .
the cla hav hig wor ove , as bot sim and rea aut new wil inc wor lik tir and eng , for exa .
the ner dat con cla for the sta of a tok typ , suc as loc , and the con of a tok typ .
we exp tha the beg and con cla for a to - ken typ wil not hav a low den reg bet the , and we see in the res tha the tsv cho poo lo - cat for the dec bou as the acc is muc wor tha sup .
we not tha we ori con the svm / tsv exp wit nor fea vec , and the tsv onl imp acc ove the sup svm in two cas ( blo ( 123 , 123 ) ) .
int , nor see to hav a muc lar imp on sem - sup lea tha on sup lea .
exc the ner dat , the mea svm acc inc by 123 usi nor - tio , whe the mea tsv acc inc by 123 .
eve whe usi nor , tsv do not alw giv imp ove sup svm .
one pos exp - tio is tha mos pub eva of tsv use sim - ple , two - cla dat .
add , tsv exp typ use the eve tes dat as unl dat dur - ing tra , whe her we use a hel - out tes set tha is sep fro the unl tra dat .
a mor com - cat ker may imp acc , but not tha the oth met onl use lin com of fea .
com the two hyb gen / dis met - ods , mcl ach hig mea acc tha pcp on sev of the twe exp , as wel as hig ove mea ac - cur acr all tas .
not tha the two met rar per wel on the sam dat .
the fun die - enc bet the two met is tha mcl has one sha set of par whi pcp has two cou set of par - ter .
an adv of the pcp met is tha the gra of the two com do not dir com to mod par val .
thi all eac com of the pcp obj to hav mor fre in mod the dat .
som gen par nee to be set in a way whi doe not cor to a goo dis set , thi
pen can abs if it lea to an imp mod .
ad - dit , the pcp met all the inc of a pri tha onl eec the dis par .
wit mcl , a gau pri on par hel pre the dis - nat com fro ove , but bec the par - ete are sha , thi pri has a neg imp on the gen com .
nam , we obs tha the pen on lar par val ten to pre lar cha in par val due to the gen com , as em - pir the gen par nee to be mor spr out tha the dis cou .
how , it ap - pea tha the ext mod pow aor by the pcp met som mak it mor dic to nd goo pa - ram set dur tra .
we not tha the cas in whi mcl giv imp acc ove pcp ten to be mor com dat in ter of the num of lab or fea .
thi sug tha pcp may be pre for les com dat and mcl for mor com
in tab 123 and 123 we sho how par val cha aft int the gen com tha use unl - bel dat .
the tab sho die in the dis - nat pow of fea in a sup max ent mod and a sem - sup hyb .
the val for eac fea can be int as the pro tha a sin wor doc con tha wor fea bel to the cla lis in the tab cap .
in tab 123 , we see tha for the blo dat and lab age 123 - 123 , the dis pow of im , lol , sch and hom inc , and the dis pow of wif , cou , and bar dec .
in tab 123 , we see tha for dat sra and lab rea avi - tio , the dis pow of air , alt , and pre inc , whi the pow of aut , rac , and car dec .
int , we see tha the add of the gen com hel to boo the dis - tiv pow of fea tha the sup mod cou not dis wit lim lab dat .
123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 alp acc acc vs .
alp for mul ! cri met : blo ( 123 ) sem ! sup hyb dis . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 acc acc vs .
alp for par cou pri met : sra ( 123 ) sem ! sup hyb dis met mov ( 123 )
tab 123 : mea tra tim in sec .
123 pra con
hyp val are oft imp to the suc - ces of sem - sup lea met , but tun hy - per can be dic in pra .
lea , hyp val are typ cho usi cro - val .
if we app thi met for sem - sup lea , eac fol tes set end up wit a ver sma num of lab exa , sin the tot num of lab ex - amp is sma .
thi mea tha the per est obt fro thi tes set may be ina .
add - all , opt hyp val may dep upo the spe set of lab exa .
tra wit a sub of tho lab exa cou res in dra die ide set for the the hyp - par , as , for exa , a poo see set of lab exa may req a hyb cla to put mor wei on the gen com and rel on unl dat .
ano opt is to cho the hyp tha giv the hig lik on the tra dat .
how , we hav fou tha the hyp - ram pro the hig lik mod bec of ove .
fin , cho hyp usi a val - dat set is not pra , as if mor lab dat is ava - abl , it wou alm cer be mor ben to use tha dat dur tra tha to use it to tun hyp .
ano pra iss in sem - sup lea is tha the add com of sem - sup tra alg inc the ove mod tra tim , as sho in ta - ble 123
on ave , the pcp met tak the lon to tra .
in add to hav twi as man par as the mcl met , it als see to tak mor ite to con .
the em nai bay sem - sup lea is ext fas bec the max lik est can be com in clo for .
we pro a heu for hyb mod to sim - ous red tra tim and rel on hyp set tha inv ens rea ini par set .
for the pcp met , we ini bot set of pa - ram to the res of sup tra on the lab dat .
we pre res usi sup ini of the pcp met in tab 123
thi als red tra tim , as sho by the ent pcp - ini in tab 123
for the mcl met , we pro to use the dis com - nen exc in the rst few ite of tra .
sin the dis com is con , thi gua tha we mov int a rea reg par spa .
at the sam tim , by avo goi the who way to the glo max , we giv the par roo to mov awa fro the dis max .
tab 123 : cla res whe usi sup ini for par cou pri mod .
par val ind the num of lab doc per cla .
the heu see to mak the alg mor con - sis , as the mea acc acr all hyp set - tin is hig .
how , the max acc att are som low .
int , one of the rea ben of the met is tha the gen com can pul the dis com int reg of par spa ver die fro tho cho by sup dis - tiv lea on the lim lab dat .
wit the ini - iza , we ens tha we do not con to a poo loc max , but sac the pot to nd dra dif - fer par set .
con and fut wor
we hav con hyb gen / dis ap - pro to sem - sup cla in whi the gen - era com inc unl dat .
we com two met for com gen and dis lik in det : a mul - con lea met and a met whe eac com has its own set of par - ter tha are cou by a pri dis .
in a sub emp com , a hyb met pro the bes acc in eig of the twe exp .
int , we con tha the per wel by mit the mod - ing ass of gen sem - sup met and avo the low - den - bet - cla ass of dis - cri sem - sup met .
in fut wor , we wou lik to app hyb gen -
tiv / dis app to tra or mul - tas lea - ing , con heu and pro met to lea hyp fro dat , and res alt opt - miz tec uti ide fro the mul - cri
thi wor was sup in par by the cen for int - lig inf ret , in par by the cen int - lig age , the nat sec age and nat sci fou und nsf gra #ii - 123 , in par by nsf nan #dm - 123 , and in par by the def adv res pro age ( dar ) , thr the
dep of the int , nbc , acq ser di - vis , und con num nbc
cp app - cia sup by mic res und the mem and esc fun pro and sup fro kod re - sea .
any opi , ndi and con or rec - men exp in thi mat are the aut and do not nec ree tho of the spo .
