abs an emb app to rea com sug tha eme rea mus lea to map wor and phr ont the rem exp , but thi is mad dif by the nec of foc att on dec .
hav chi man - ula toy to cor to wha the are rea ove thi pro , but int its own pro for the cla , nam hav to pro a cla ful of chi wit man .
in thi art , we dem tha hav rst - and sec - gra chi man ima of toy on a com scr ben the com as muc as phy man of the toy .
in add , man on one day fac rea in the sam dom one wee lat .
the ndi enc the use of man of tex - rel ima as an edu tec for enh ear rea com .
the ndi als set con on the acc of emb whi rea .
key rea com emb edu tec eme rea com aid ins
wha doe it mea to com a wri tex ? one ans , bas on an emb app to cog , is tha suc com req ( a ) map wor and phr to cur or rem exp and ( b ) usi syn to gui the app
gle ( & ) dep of psy , ari sta uni , tem , az 123 - 123 , usa
gle dep of psy , uni of wis , mad , wi , usa a .
gol x .
zhu dep of com sci , uni of wis , mad , wi , usa
gle et al .
int of tho exp .
the pro are par dif for the eme rea bec lea to rea out lou for att to dec ort int pho .
wit att foc on dec , the is sca att to com tha is , map the wor ont exp .
mov by rea is an int des to add thi pro by pro the app exp whi rea and tea chi how to rel the wri wor to tho exp .
pre wor has dem the suc of thi int , but onl whe chi are giv the opp to dir int wit the env to pro the exp .
her we ask whe a com can pro equ eff exp for the eme
two app to rea com
an inu the of rea com was dev by kin ( 123 ) .
in tha the , com req the con and int of pro .
eac pro cor to a sim ide , and it con of abs , sym rep - tat of con lin by abs rel suc as giv , obj , and rec .
thi the has ins a tre amo of res , mos of whi sup the the at lea in bro out .
non , thi app fal pre to the sym gro pro , nam , how are the abs sym giv mea ?
the abs sym in kin the are sim to the dat in a com mem loc , tha is , the are arb rel to the sym ref .
for the com sym , mea is pro by a hum obs int the sym .
but , who or wha int the abs sym of the min ? one pos ( see kin 123 lan and dum 123 ) is tha the den of con amo abs sym is suf to sup mea .
how , the ana ( har 123 sea 123 ) and emp inv ( e . g . , gle and meh 123 , in pre ) sug tha thi wil not wor .
har ( 123 ) use the sym mer - go - rou arg to dem why con - nec amo abs sym can lea to mea .
ima tha you are arr in a for cou , and tha you do not spe the loc lan .
at you dis you hav a dic wri sol in the for lan wit eng tra .
as you ste off the air , you see a sig , and you wis to und its mea .
you loo up in the dic the rst wor in the sig .
bec the den is in the for lan , it doe not mak any sen to you , thu you loo up the rst wor in the den , but it too doe not hel , and so you loo up the rst wor in tha den .
fro thi exa , it is cle tha no man how man wor ( abs sym ) you loo up , tha is no mat how man rel tha you tra amo the sym , you wil be una to det the mea of the sig sol fro rel amo the sym .
har ( and oth ) sug tha one mus ste off the sym mer - go - rou by gro , or map , the sym to som ( e . g . , bod exp ) out of the sym
gle and meh ( 123 , 123 ) inv thi iss emp .
par in the exp mem fou dif typ of rel ( e . g . , can has as par ) bet obj and fea .
the obj , fea , and the fre of pre cor dir to a wel - kno sem dom , nam two - whe veh fou on cam .
whe the nam of the rel wer giv to the par , the nam of the dom , the nam of the obj , and the nam of the fea wer not rev to the par .
the que of maj int was whe the par
imp ear rea com usi emb cai
cou ind the dom and obj fro the mem rel alo .
the ans was tha the cou not .
in ano exp , par wer giv the nam of the dom , nam of the rel , nam of thr of six obj ( roa bik , mou bik , mot - cyc ) , and nam of 123 of the 123 fea .
par mem rel amo bot the nam and unn obj and fea .
the que of int was aga whe par cou ind the mea of the unn obj and fea .
the cou not .
hen , bot log ana ( har 123 sea 123 ) and dat ind tha mea can ari sol fro rel amo abs fea .
an alt app can be dev fro the per of emb cog : hig - lev cog pro ( e . g . , lan , mat ) are gro in bod mec - ani of per , act , and aff ( bar 123 , 123 sem and smi 123 ) .
the ind hyp ( gle and rob 123 gle and kas 123 ) is one suc the .
it sup tha lan com req tha the abs sym of lan ( i . e . , wor and syn ) be map ont emb exp or rep of tho exp .
the exp may be pro by sen the env , as whe loo at a cup whi som is tal abo tha cup .
alt , the exp may be pro by per sym ( bar 123 ) in mem .
a per sym is an ana rep con of the par re - act of the sam neu sys act whe the obj was app .
a tre amo of dat fro neu ( e . g . , gle et al .
123 pul 123 ) and psy res ( e . g . , gle and kas 123 zwa and tay 123 ) has dem the imp of suc gro rep for lan com .
the mov by rea int
on thi emb acc of lan com , why is rea so muc mor dif to acq tha an ora lan ? to put it dif , how is it tha a chi is abl to dec tex and say it out lou , but sti not und ( e . g . , oak et al .
123 ) ? one pos is tha dur ora lan lea , the map bet sym ( wor ) and obj is com .
for exa , a mot say , her is you cup , and han the cup to the inf , or a fat say , wav bye - bye , whi ges the act .
in con , whe lea to rea , a chi mus foc on the let - sou cor and on ble tho sou to pro the pro pro of the wor .
it is unl tha the wor ref is any in the env , and eve whe a tex may be acc by pic , ref to the pic is unl to be sys .
( eve tho sen tea may wel poi to pic whi the tea rea to the cla , the imp beh is for the chi to ref wor to gro exp , suc as pic , whi the chi is rea . ) in thi cas , rea bec a mea exe in wor cal , muc lik try to rea a tex in a lan one doe not und .
oak et al .
( 123 ) dem tha a non - neg pro of stu suc dec but wit lit com .
tha is , rea alo sen com of wor in the chi voc doe not gua com .
the mov by rea int con of two typ of act des to tea chi how to map wor and phr ont cur and rem exp .
dur the phy man ( pm ) sta , chi rea sim tex abo act wit a par sce ( e . g . , a far sce ) .
in fro of the chi is a set of toy suc as a toy bar , tra , ani , etc .
cri sen are cue wit a pic of a gre tra lig .
aft the chi rea a cri sen ( e . g . , the far bri hay to the hor ) , the chi act out the sen usi the toy , thu for the chi to con wor to
gle et al .
par obj and syn rel ( e . g . , who did wha to who ) to act .
on a com tes fol rea , chi who eng in pm oft per one to two sta dev bet tha chi who rea the sam tex , but ins of man the toy , the chi re - rea cri sen ( gle et al .
123 , 123 mar et al .
123 ) .
fol pm , chi are tau to ima man ( im ) the toy .
tha is , upo see the gre lig , the are tau to ima how the wou int wit the toy to act out the sen .
im pro gai tha are sim in siz to tho pro by pm ( gle et al .
123 gle 123 ) .
why doe im wor so wel ? the ini pm pro con to the chi wha rea is all abo , nam , usi the exp to con men mod tha cor to the tex .
the im pro all chi to tak adv of thi kno , as wel as imp enc the chi to use his or her wel - pra ski of map hea wor to exp use dur ora
mov by rea on com
whe the mov by rea int cou be edu ben , it is lim by the nec of cre sto tha mat toy or cre toy tha mat sto .
a sec lim for cla use is the nec of hav man set of toy , tha is , a set of toy for eac ind or gro of stu .
giv tha man cla are bec com - put and tha man sch hav com lab , bot of the lim mig be ove by hav a chi , whi rea , man com ima usi a mou .
but , wil thi sor of com man be as suc as pm ? the are rea to ans in the neg and the afr .
on the neg sid , man com ima may not be as eng as man toy .
als , the mul exp ass wit the toy ( e . g . , bot vis and hap inf ) may be imp for cre the sor of per sym nee for im to be suc .
on the pos sid , to the ext tha suc of the int dep on ( a ) map wor to any sor of mea rep and ( b ) enc chi to map the syn rel to act , the man ima usi a com may be as suc as pm .
in the res rep nex , we con thr con .
in all of the con , chi rea tex pre on a com mon and aft rea pai of tex the too a sho com tes .
in the pm con , aft rea cri sen , chi tur awa fro the mon to man phy toy .
in the com man ( cm ) con , chi man ima on the mon usi the mou ( see fig .
fin , in the re - rea con , chi re - rea cri sen .
in the re - rea con , a non - man ver of the ima was ava on the scr as in a chi pic boo .
on the rst day of the exp , chi rea fou tex .
on the sec day of the exp , 123 wee lat , chi wer ins to eng in im ( or sil re - rea in the re - rea con ) .
the chi rea fou mor tex for whi the was no man of ima on the scr .
the rst two of the tex wer sto des eve in the sam , fam sce use on the rst day ( e . g . , far sce ) .
the sec two sto cam fro an unf sce ( e . g . , hou sce ) .
thi des all us to ans sev app and the que .
wil cm be as eff as pm ? wil cm be mor eff tha re - rea ? wil cm lea to eff use of im on day 123 ? wil ben of im ext to unf sce ? on the the sid , do eff emb rep req act wit rea obj ?
imp ear rea com usi emb cai
123 a scr sho bef rea , ben hoo the car to the tra b scr sho mid thr man for ben hoo the car to the tra c scr sho aft suc man for ben hoo the car to the tra
gle et al .
a tot of 123 chi in the rst - and sec - gra wer sam fro two sou .
one sou was a res reg in whi par of chi att the mad met sch dis cou ind the wil to par in res .
the sec was an aft sch pro in a sub of mad , wi .
chi fro the reg par in a lab roo and chi fro the aft sch pro par at the sch .
par con was obt for all chi .
chi wer ran ass to par in the pm ( n = 123 ) , cm ( n = 123 ) , or re - rea ( n = 123 ) con .
ran ass was don sep for the two sou of par to ens no sys con of sou and con .
for eac of two sce , we wro six , eig - sen sto .
eac sto inc ve cri sen .
in add , for eac sto we wro a 123 - que yes / no com tes .
fiv of the que wer dir at the cri sen ( e . g . , did ben dri the tra to the pum ) and ve wer dir at inf tak fro oth par of the sto as wel as inf tem rel ( e . g . , did ben dri to the bar aft he put the pum in the car ) and inf spa rel ( e . g . , at the end of the sto was the tra at the bar ) .
chi wer ran ass to sta wit one sce ( the fam sce ) or the oth .
the chi rea fou sto fro the fam sce on the rst day , the rem two sto fro tha sce on the sec day ( 123 wee lat ) , and the two sto fro the oth , unf , sce .
the use of the sto was cou as fol .
fir , sto wer pai .
the , a pai of sto occ app equ oft as the rst pai on day 123 , the sec pai on day 123 , and the rst pai on day 123
eac pai fro the sec sce occ app equ oft as the sec pai on
in add , eac sce had an int tha was use in all of the con .
for the int , a sta pic of the sto obj was pre , and the exp poi to and nam all of the obj .
the was als a ve - sen pra tex for eac sce .
thi tex was use on the rst day to giv chi pra rea fro the mon , man , and re - rea .
fin , a thr - sen pra tex was cre for eac sce and use on the sec day to int ima man and sil re - rea .
the ins for ima man wer to ima int wit the ima ( e . g . , ima cli on an ima , dra it wit the mou , etc . ) .
for the rst sen in the pra tex , the exp des wha was to be ima .
for the rem sen of the pra tex onl , the chi des wha he or she ima .
if the chi did not des int wit the ima , the chi was cor .
des of the com sof
the exp wer con usi a jav - pow web app tha run in a sta web bro ( e . g . , moz fir ) .
no add sof nee to be dow or ins on a loc com .
the web pag dis the sen in a box
imp ear rea com usi emb cai
on the lef sid of the scr , wit a tra lig ico nex to the cri sen .
the rig sid of the scr dis a sta bac ima for eac sce ( e . g . , a bar in the far sce ) , and in the for , sma ima rep the key par and obj in the sce .
for the exp , the ima are hig qua pho of the sam toy use in our pm stu .
whe the chi rea a cri sen , he or she mus cli on the ima of the cor obj to man ( thi is aki to pic up the cor toy in a pm stu ) .
cli any els doe not .
for exa , giv the sen ben hoo the car to the tra , the chi mus cli on ben , the far .
upo doi so , the ima bec stu to the mou cur , and the chi may rel the mou but .
( you com use may not hav mas the con of dra yet . ) wit an ima loc ont the mou cur , the chi mus mov the mou to cli on the nex rel obj or loc ( in thi cas , the car ) .
now , mov the mou wil mov the far and the car tog .
a hot zon is den aro the rel loc , pro som exi in whe the nex cli mus occ .
aft the las nec cli for the sen , the sel ima bec unl fro the mou and rem in the new loc , alt the may be a sli adj in the ima to dep imp det ( e . g . , the car app - pri att to the tra ) .
in sho , the sof is des to all onl cor man , whi all som roo for err in mou cli and mov beh .
whe all the req man for a sen are com , a sma ind app in the cor of the scr as a sig to the exp tha the chi may sta rea the nex sen .
on the rst day , chi wer int to the fam sce .
fol tha , the wer ins as to wha a gre lig sig the toy for the chi in the pm con , man the com ima the for chi in the cm con , and re - rea for chi in the re - rea con .
thi ins was fol by pre - sen of the ve - sen pra tex .
chi the rea two sto fro the fam sce .
the com tes for tho two sto was giv aft rea the sec sto so tha the was a ret int of sev min bet rea a sto and tak the tes .
the com que wer rea alo by the res and the chi res alo .
nei the tex nor the pic wer ava to the chi dur the tes .
chi the rea two mor sto fro the fam sce and the wer tes on tho two .
at the end of the rst day , the chi sel a sma
on the sec day ( 123 wee lat ) , chi wer ins in im or sil re - rea usi the thr - sen pra tex .
thi pra was fol by chi rea two tex fro the fam sce .
the rst of the was pre alo wit a sta pic of the sce , and the sec was rea wit any pic .
the chi wer the tes on the two tex .
chi the rec the int to the sec , unf , sce alo wit a sta pic .
chi the rea two tex fro the unf sce usi eit im ( for chi in the pm and cm con ) or sil re - rea .
the rst of the tex was pre alo wit a sta pic and the sec had no pic .
bec the man of pic on the sec day had no sta sig - nic eff , it wil not be dis fur .
fin , chi wer tes on the las two tex , giv a sec toy , and dis .
gle et al .
the mea ( and sta dev ) of mos int are pre in tab 123
fro tha tab , it app tha chi in the cm gro out chi in the oth two gro bot on day 123 and on day 123 for the fam sce , but not for the unf sce .
sta com con usi a pro of a typ 123 err of 123 gen con the imp .
the sta ana wer con usi an ano on the pro cor usi chi as the uni of ana .
the pro wer obt by col acr all que ( 123 per tex ) for tex in a giv con .
for exa , the pro cor for the rst day wer obt fro the 123 que ask tha day .
in the rst ana , the dat fro the fam and unf tex on day 123 wer com .
the was an eff of day , in tha chi did bet on day 123 tha day 123 , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 .
the are sev lik , but rel uni , rea for thi ndi .
fir , day 123 con of sto fro one sce , whe day 123 con of sto fro two sce , one of whi was rel unf .
sec , on day 123 , chi use a rea str ( pm , cm , or re - rea alo ) tha is lik to be mor eff tha the day 123 str ( im or re - rea sil ) .
thi , all of the day 123 sto wer acc by man or sta pic , but onl hal the day 123 sto wer
mor int is the mai eff of con , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 .
chi in the cm con out tho in the re - rea con ( p = 123 ) .
the int of con and day was not sig ( p = 123 ) , whi imp tha the cm con out the re - rea con bot on day 123 whe chi man ima or re - rea alo , and on day 123 whe chi ima the man of ima or re - rea
we per a sim ana usi the day 123 dat and the day 123 dat fro the fam sce onl .
in thi ana , the was a sig eff of day , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , and con , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 .
the chi in the cm con out - for the chi in the re - rea con ( p = 123 ) and the pm con ( p = 123 ) .
aga , the was lit evi for an int bet day and con , f \ 123
fin , we ana the dat fro day 123 and the dat fro the unf sce on day 123
the wer no sig eff in thi ana .
it sho be not tha the dat pre in tab 123 are the pro cor of all tes que , tha is , tho que tar the act sen and tho dra fro oth par of the tex .
whe the que tar the act sen are con alo , the pat of mea and pat of sta sig are the sam as rep abo .
how , bec per was so hig ( e . g . , on day 123 , the pro cor wer 123 , 123 , and 123 , and on day 123 , fam sce the pro wer 123 , 123 ,
tab 123 mea ( and sta dev ) on the com tes
con on day 123
day 123 fam
day 123 unf
phy man ( pm )
com man ( cm )
eff siz ( d ) for cm com to re - rea
not : ns not sta sig
imp ear rea com usi emb cai
and 123 , for the pm , cm , and re - rea con , res ) , tho dat may ree in par cei eff .
con , we dec to foc on ana of all of the que .
it is of int tha the pos eff of mov by rea ext bey the spe sen for whi chi eng in pm or im , alt the eff is exp : pm and im hel the chi to bui a men mod of the cha and the act , and thi men mod wil be use in und all par of the sto .
the ndi tha the ben of mov by rea ext to oth par of the tex als hel to bol the cla tha the int enh not jus mem but als com of the tex .
tha is , app mov by rea hel the chi to ans inf que , not jus bet rem par of tex cor to man sen .
thi dis wil be org aro the que not at the end of the int sec , nam , wil cm be as eff as pm ? wil cm be mor eff tha re - rea ? wil cm lea to eff use of im on day 123 ? wil ben of im ext to unf sce ? on the the sid , do eff emb rep req act wit rea obj ? fin , we wil add the edu imp of thi res , and its rel to wor on gam .
is cm as eff as pm ?
one sur in the res was tha chi in the cm con per at lea as wel , or eve bet , tha chi in the pm con ( p = 123 con all of the dat , and p = 123 con dat fro day 123 and the fam sce fro day 123 ) .
thi eff may ree dis in the pm con cau by hav to tur awa fro the com scr in ord to man the toy .
how , it mig als be a rea eff , and not sim dis .
for exa , man ima on the scr may hel foc the chi on how to rea the syn rel whe the nee to gra and man the obj is obv .
or , man ima on the scr may dis pla so tha the chi foc mor on the tex . 123 thi las rea is rem of res on ma - nip in mat con .
nam , to the ext tha the chi pla wit the man in con to usi it as a sym for a mat ide , the man int wit per ( e . g . , mcn et al .
123 ) .
is cm mor eff tha re - rea ? wil cm lea to eff use of im on day 123 ?
chi in the cm con out tho in the re - rea con , and the eff siz wer lar eno to be edu imp .
on day 123 , the eff siz ( coh d ) of cm com to re - rea was 123 , whe 123 is con a lar eff .
on day 123 ( im com to re - rea ) , for the fam sce , d = 123 ( a med siz eff ) .
the are sev rea why 123 may be an und .
fir , the wer onl two tex fro the fam sce on day 123 , so tha the was mor err in the mea
123 sev chi did app to pla wit the ima in the cm con .
for exa , a chi mig sim wit the mou a chi hop , or hum a dit whi mov an ima .
gle et al .
of day 123 per com to day 123 per .
sec , bec of the lon , 123 - wee , ret int , it is lik tha som chi for som of the sce inf tha mig hav ass in the ima man .
it mig als be the cas tha mor ext pra on pm ( or cm ) mig lea to muc lar eff of im com to re - rea .
for exa , in gle , bro , & lev ( 123 ) ( a ) cla wer ran ass to con , ( b ) the cla tea del the int usi res - pre les pla , ( c ) the tex wer tak fro the chi lit rat tha wri by the res , and ( d ) thi - gra chi pra pm sev tim dis ove sev wee , and the pra im 123 tim dis acr eig wee ( ove wit the pm pra ) .
for the chi , the eff siz of im ( com to chi in a con gro who rea the sam tex dis in the sam way ) ran fro 123 to ove 123
wil ben of im ext to unf sce ?
for the cur dat , the ans is cle no .
thi ans is in con to bot gle et al .
( 123 , b ) and res fro the jus - des pil exp .
in bot of tho pro , chi tra on pm for one sce sho ben of im whe rea tex fro bot fam and unf sce .
the wer two not dif bet tho pro and the cur one , how .
fir , the chi rec mor ext tra in the pre wor .
sec , the chi wer old .
thu , alt the ben of im wer lim in the cur res , the is rea to bel tha im wil tra to unf sce wit gre pra and / or old chi .
do eff emb rep req act wit rea obj ?
the ndi tha cm res in per at lea as goo as in the pm con lea to a neg ans .
bec muc of the emb cog lit has dem eff of rea phy , thi ndi was a sur .
in ret , how , the are goo rea for it .
fir , lan its dea wit cat and rou app .
tha is , eve a tho des of an obj wil not inc all the det of its phy .
thu , ind a wor to a rou app rep of the obj may oft ser com - pre wel .
sec , the was not in the tex tha req ( for com ) mor tha a rou app to the rea obj .
for exa , not in the tex dep on inf abo wei of an obj tha mig be dif to obt fro an ima .
thu , the opp to emb wit act the gra rel of who did wha to who may hav bee suf to lea to ben of cm and its tra to im .
fin , thi ndi is con wit tri and kla ( 123 ) .
in tha res , chi - dre lea the sci , con of var str ( cvs ) , nam tha in an exp - men one mus man one var and con all oth .
tri and kla dem tha chi lea equ wel whe the man a phy app to con exp or whe the man vir obj on a
as not abo , pil wor dem eff of the mov by rea int - ven und cla con .
how , the nee to use phy man lim the pra imp of the pro .
the cur wor dem how
imp ear rea com usi emb cai
tha lim can be ove usi com , alt we mus sti dem eff of cm und cla con .
it is of int to not the rel bet cm and wor on the edu ben of gam ( e . g . , bar et al .
123 gee 123 , 123 ) .
whe no lis of the cha of suc edu gam is acc by eve , the fol cha are lik to be inc in mos lis .
goo com gam :
are exp and sit as opp to a rou and dec ( wid et al .
123 ) rel , goo gam pro ski tha are bes lea as str for car out mea fun ( gee 123 , p .
123 ) suc gam mot by rew or opp for suc
mov by rea ove wit the cha .
cas obs sug tha chi are mor ent rea in the pm and cm con ( see foo ( 123 ) ) tha in the re - rea con .
( wor und is exa mot mor obj . ) als , the man aft eac act sen pro an opp for suc .
whe enh mot may wel acc for som of the ben we obs , we thi tha the rea ben ree ano sim wit gam .
tha is , gam hel lea to sit the lea , and the to gro in tha sit the for tha the are lea ( bar et al .
thu , in bot mov by rea and wel - des gam , it is lik tha the rea ben for lea and com com whe the lea is abl to bre out of har ( 123 ) sym mer - go - rou by gro the sym ( wor ) in cur exp , whe tha exp is lit phy or the cre of men mod tha emb and rep phy exp .
one mig ask whe the ben of mov by rea dem her are tem - por in the sen tha as chi bec mor ski rea the do not nee exp pra in gro .
als , is mov by rea ben for onl the mos con tex ? sur , mos old rea wil not nee exp ins in gro for the sor of sim tex use her ( alt tha mig not be tru whe rea in a non - nat lan ) .
how , we bel tha , if any , the pro bec mor sev as chi are ask to rea and com tex , suc as sci tex , tha do not add com exp .
tha is , it is the ina to gro tec ter in the exp - rie tha , in par , mak sci tex dau .
a rec com exp ( ric et al .
123 ) dem the ben of giv stu the opp to gro wri tex whi lea the cvs pri stu by kla ( e . g . , tri and kla 123 ) .
in ric et al .
( 123 ) fou gra stu hea a pre abo cvs and the the wer giv the opp to app it .
in one con , chi app cvs by fol wri ins for how to set up exp in a par dom ( e . g . , var tha con how far a bal rol ) .
tha is , the chi lit man the app by fol exp , wri ins - tio .
in ano con , chi app cvs by man the sam app , but thi tim the exp ins wer rea to the chi .
thu , the two con wer ide in reg to the sym inf , but onl the rst gro had pra in gro wri mat in the act .
in a tra tas , all chi wer ask to app the cvs pri in a new dom ( e . g . , var tha con how far a spr wil str ) .
in thi tra tas , all chi lit man the app to set up exp by rea tex tha out ( rat tha ful des ) the exp .
the dep var wer ( a ) how wel the chi was abl to fol the ins by des an unc exp ,
gle et al .
and ( b ) how wel the chi jus the des of the exp .
the maj res fro thi tra tas wer tha chi who had pre rea the tex out the chi who had pre lis to the tex on bot mea .
the ric et al .
dat dem the pow of mov by rea for fou edu - cat rel pro .
fir , man is imp for rea who are old tha the par use in the cur exp .
sec , man is imp for whe chi ( and , mos lik adu ) nee to lea fro rea rat tha lea to rea .
thi , man is imp for lea how to app an abs pri .
fin , man app to fac tra .
thu , muc as wit wel - des edu gam , mov by rea can hel to sit abs for and tha fac acq and tra of the for .
ack thi mat is bas upo wor sup by the nat sci fou und gra no .
bcs 123 to art gle and iis - 123 to xia zhu .
any opi , ndi , and con or rec exp in thi mat are tho of the aut ( s ) and do not nec ree the vie of the nat sci fou .
we tha lau haz and sal mil for the inv hel in dat col , and min c .
joh - gle for ins tha com ima can ind be use as man .
