an app of sem - sup lea is mad to the pro of per ide in low qua web ima .
usi a set of im - age of ten peo col ove a per of fou mon , the per ide tas is pos as a gra - bas sem - sup lea pro - lem , whe onl a few tra ima are la - bel .
the imp of dom kno in gra con is dis , and exp - men are pre tha cle sho the adv - tag of sem - sup lea ove sta sup lea .
the dat use in the stu is ava to the res com to enc - age fur inv of thi pro .
the sch of com sci at car mel uni - ver has a pub lou , whe lef piz and oth foo ite fro var mee con , to the del of stu , sta , and fac .
to hel mon the pre - enc of foo in the lou , a web , som cal the fre , is mou in a cok mac and tra upo the tab whe foo is pla .
aft bei spo on the web , the arr of ( alm ) fre fre foo is her wit ins mes sen thr the sch .
the fre off int opp for re -
123 : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / cok , car mel
app in pro .
of the 123 st icm wor on lea wit par cla tra dat , bon , ger , 123
cop - rig 123 by the aut ( s ) / own ( s ) .
sea in sem - sup mac lea .
thi pap pre an inv of the pro of per ide - cat in thi low qua vid dat , usi web im - age of ten peo tha wer col ove a per of sev - era mon .
the res hig the imp of do - mai kno in sem - sup lea , and cle dem the adv of usi bot lab and unl - bel dat ove sta sup lea .
in rec yea , the has bee a sub amo of wor exp how bes to inc unl dat int su - per lea ( zhu , 123 ) .
sev sem - sup lea app hav bee pro for pra ap - pli in dif are , suc as inf ret , tex cla ( nig et al . , 123 ) , and bio - ics ( wes et al . , 123 shi et al . , 123 ) .
in the con of com vis , sev int res hav bee obt for obj det .
lev et al .
duc a tec bas on co - tra ( blu & mit , 123 ) for tti vis det in a way tha req onl a sma qua of lab dat , usi unl dat to imp per ove tim .
ros et al .
( 123 ) pre a sem - sup app to tra obj de - tec sys bas on sel - tra , and per ext - siv exp wit a sta - of - the - art det ( sch - der & kan , 123 sch , 123 sch - der , 123 ) dem tha a mod tra in thi man can ach res com to a mod tra in the tra man usi a muc lar set of ful
in thi wor , we des a new app of sem - sup lea to the pro of per ide in web ima , whe the vid str has a low fra rat , and the ima are of low qua .
sig , man of the ima may hav no fac , as the per cou be fac - ing awa fro the cam .
we dis the cre of the
fig
fou typ fre ima .
dat , and the for of the sem - sup lea - ing pro .
the tas of fac rec , of cou , has an ext lit see ( zha et al . , 123 ) for a sur - vey .
how , to the bes of our kno , per ide - cat in vid dat has not bee pre att us - ing sem - sup lea met .
rel pri ima pro tec are use in our wor we not tha mor sop com vis tec can be eas inc int the fra , and sho onl imp the per .
but the spi of our con is to arg tha sem - sup lea met may be att as a com too to adv ima pro - ces .
the dat we hav dev and tha for the bas for the exp rep her wil be mad ava - abl to the res com . 123
the fre dat
the dat con of 123 ima wit one and onl one per in it .
fig 123 sho fou typ ima fro the dat .
the tas is not tri :
the ima of eac per wer cap on mul - ple day dur a fou mon per .
peo cha
123 for obt the dat can be fou at htt :
clo , hai sty , and one per eve gre a bea .
we sim a vid sur sce whe im - age for a gro of peo are man lab in a few beg fra , and the peo mus be rec - niz on lat day .
the we cho lab dat wit the rst day of a per app , and tes on the rem ima of the day and all oth day .
thi is muc mor dif tha tes onl on the sam day , or all lab dat to com fro all
the fre is a low qua web .
eac fra has 123 123 res so fac of far awa peo are sma .
the fra rat is a lit ove 123 fra per sec , and lig in the lou is com - ple and cha .
a per cou tur the fac awa fro the cam , and rou one thi of the ima con no fac at
sin onl a few ima are lab , and all of the tes im - age are ava , the tas is a nat can for the app of sem - sup lea tec .
fig
lef : mea bac ima use for bac sub .
rig : bre of the 123 sub by dat .
dat col
we ask ten vol to app in sev fre tak ove fou mon .
not all par cou sho up for eve tak .
the fre is loc in the com - put sci lou , but we rec a liv cam fee in our ofc , and too ima fro the cam whe a new fra was ava .
in eac tak , the par too tur ent the sce , wal aro , and act nat , for exa by rea the new or cha wit off - cam col - lea , for ve to ten min per tak .
as a res , we col ima whe the ind hav var pos and are at a ran of dis fro the cam .
we dis - car all fra tha wer cor by ele noi in the cok mac , or tha con mor tha one per in the sce .
thi lat con imp was to mak the tas sim to spe as a rst ste the is no rea tha the met we pre bel cou not be ext to wor wit sce con mul peo .
for col ext
to acc cap the col inf of an ind in the ima , bas pri on the clo , we had to sep him or her fro the bac .
as com vis is not the foc of the wor , we use onl pri ima pro met .
a sim bac sub alg was use to nd the for .
we com the per - pix mea and var of red , gre and blu cha fro 123 bac ima .
fig 123 sho the mea bac .
usi the mea and var of the bac , we ob - tai the for are in eac ima by thr .
pix dev mor tha thr sta der fro the mea wer tre as for .
to imp the qua of the for col his ,
we pro the for are usi mor tra ( jai , 123 ) .
fur pro was req bec the for der fro bac sub - tio oft cap onl par of the bod and con bac are .
we rst rem sma isl in the for by app the ope ope wit a 123 pix - wid squ .
we the con ver - sep pix blo ( suc as hea and low tor ) usi the clo ope - tio wit a 123 - pix - by - 123 - pix rec blo .
fin , we mad sur the for con the ent per by enl the for to inc nei pix by fur clo the for wit a dis of 123 pix in rad .
and bec the is onl one per in eac im - age , we dis all but the lar con blo of pix in the pro for .
fig 123 sho som pro for ima .
aft thi pro the for are is rep by a 123 - dim vec , whi con of a 123 - bin hue his , a 123 - bin sat his , and a 123 - bin
fac ima ext
the fac of the per is sto as a sma ima , whi is der fro the out of a fac det ( sch - man 123 123 ) .
not tha thi is not a fac rec ( a fac rec was not use for thi tas ) .
it sim de - tec the pre of fro or pro fac , and out the est cen and rad of the det fac .
we too a squ are aro the cen as the fac ima .
if no fac was det , the fac ima is emp .
fig 123 sho a few fac ima as det by the fac det .
sum of the dat
in sum , the dat is com of 123 ima for ten ind , col dur sev tak ove fou mon .
the is a sli imb in the cla dis -
fig
exa of for ext by bac sub and mor tra .
fig
exa of fac ima det by the fac det .
tio , and onl a sub of ind are pre in eac day ( ref to tab 123 for the bre ) .
ove 123 of the ima ( 123 out of 123 ) do not con a fac .
eac ima in the dat is rep by thr fea :
tim : the dat and tim the ima was tak .
col his of pro for : a 123 di - men vec con of thr his of the for pix , a 123 - bin hue his , a 123 - bin sat his , and a 123 - bin bri his -
fac ima : a squ col ima of the fac ( if pre ) .
as men abo , thi fea is mis in abo 123 of the ima .
the gra
gra - bas sem - sup lea dep cri on the con and qua of the gra .
the gra sho ree dom kno thr the sim fun tha is use to ass edg ( and the wei ) .
for the fre dat the nod in the gra are the ima .
an edg is for bet two ima acc to the fol cri :
tim edg .
peo nor mov aro in the lou at mod spe , thu adj fra are lik to con the sam per .
we rep thi kno in the gra by put an edg bet two ima if the tim dif is les tha a thr t12 ( usu a few sec ) .
nei 123 : tim edg
nei 123 : col edg
nei 123 : col edg
nei 123 : col edg
nei 123 : fac edg
fig
a ran ima and its nei in the gra .
col edg .
the col his is lar det - min by a per app .
we ass peo cha clo on dif day , so tha the col his ten to be unu acr mul day .
how , it is an inf fea dur a sho tim per ( t12 ) , suc as hal a day .
in the gra for eve ima i , we nd the set of ima hav a tim dif bet ( t12 , t12 ) to i , and con i wit its kc - nea nei ( in ter of cos sim on his ) in the set .
the par kc is a sma int , suc as thr .
fac edg .
we use fac sim ove lon tim spa .
for eve ima i wit a fac , we nd the set of ima mor tha t12 apa fro i , and con i wit its kf - nea nei in the set .
we use pix - wis euc dis bet fac ima , whe the pai of fac ima is sca to the sam siz .
the nal gra is the uni of the thr kin of edg .
the edg are unw .
we use t12 = 123 sec , t12 = 123 hou , kc = 123 and kf = 123 bel .
con , the par res in a con gra .
it is imp to vis the who gra .
ins , we sho the nei of a ran nod in fig 123
we use the sim gau eld and har fun alg ( zhu et al . , 123 ) on the fre dat .
let l be the num of lab ima , u the num of unl ima , and n = l + u .
the gra is rep the n n wei mat w .
let d be the dia deg mat wit dii = pj wij , and den the com
l = d w
let yl be an lc lab mat , whe c = 123 is the num of cla .
for i = 123 .
l , yl ( i , c ) = 123 if lab ima i is in cla c , yl ( i , c ) = 123 oth .
the the har fun sol for the unl dat is
yu = l12
whe luu is the sub of l on unl nod and so on .
eac row of yu can be int as the col of pos pro p ( yi = c|y ) for c = 123 .
c and i u .
cla is car out by ndi the cla wit the max pos in eac row .
in ( zhu et al . , 123 ) it has als bee sho tha inc - por cla pro kno can be hel .
the pro qc of dat wit lab c can be est fro the lab set .
in par , the cla mas nor ( cmn ) heu sca the pos to mee the pro - tio .
tha is , one nds a set of coe a12 ,
yu ( i , 123 ) :
: ac x
yu ( i , c ) = q12 :
fig exa gra wal on the gra .
the wal sta fro an unl ima , thr ass edg , and end at a
cla of an unl poi i is ach by ndi arg ( i , c ) .
in the exp bel we rep the acc of bot the har fun and cmn .
gra wal on the gra
the har alg des abo sol a set of lin - ear equ so tha the pre lab of eac exa is the ave of the pre lab of its unl nei - bor and the act lab of its lab nei .
the rea for the alg pre can ( rou ) be vis by per a gra wal sta fro an unl exa i , alw mov to the nei wit the hig sco giv to the pre lab .
tha is , let y be the pre lab for i .
if we are at nod j , we wil wal to js nei nod k if
k = arg ( k12 , y )
the gra wal con unt we rea a lab ex - amp .
two gra wal pat are sho in fig 123 and fig 123
exp res
we eva har fun on the fre tas .
for eac tas we gra inc the lab set siz sys , per 123 ran tri for eac la - bel set siz .
in eac tri we ran sam a lab set wit the spe siz fro the rst day of a per app onl .
thi is bec we wan to sim
a vid sur sce , whe peo are tag and ide on lat day .
it is mor dif and mor rea - ist tha sam lab dat fro the ent dat .
if a cla was mis fro the sam lab set , we red the ran sam .
the rem ima are use as the unl set .
we rep the cla acc wit har fun - tio and cmn , on two dif gra .
the rst gra is con wit par t12 = 123 sec , t12 = 123 hou , kc = 123 , kf = 123 , the sec wit kc = 123
the res are pre in fig 123
to com the gra - bas sem - sup lea met - ods aga a sta sup lea met , we use a mat imp of sup vec ma - chi ( gun , 123 ) as the bas .
for c - cla mul - cla pro , we use a one - aga - all sch whi cre c bin sub , one for eac cla aga all the oth cla , and sel the cla wit the lar mar .
bec we hav mis fea on fac sub - ima , the ker for the svm bas req spe car .
we use an int lin ker k ( i , j ) = wtk ( i , j ) + wck ( i , j ) + wf kf ( i , j ) , whe kt , kc , kf are lin ker ( inn pro ) on tim sta , col his - tog , and fac sub - ima ( nor to 123 123 pix - if ima i con no fac , we den kf ( i , ) = 123
the int wei wt , wc , wf wer opt wit cro val .
not the svm wit suc ker are not sem - sup : the unl dat are mer use as tes dat .
we fou tha the har
fig exa gra wal on the gra .
the wal sta fro an unl ima , thr ass edg , and end at a
fun out the lin ker svm bas ( fig - ure 123 ) .
the acc can be imp if we inc cla pro kno wit the sim cmn heu - tic .
the cla pro is est fro lab dat wit lap ( add one ) smo .
to dem the imp of usi unl dat for sem - sup lea , we com the har fun - tio wit a min unl set of siz one .
tha is , for eac unl poi xi , we rem all oth unl poi and com the har fun on the lab dat plu xi .
thi bec a sup lea pro - lem .
the har sol wit onl one unl poi is equ to the sta wei nea nei al - gor .
sin the ori gra are spa , mos unl - bel poi may not hav any lab nei .
to dea wit thi we ins con xi to its kc nea lab nei in the col fea , and kf nea nei in the fac fea , whe edg are all unw .
we tri var com of kc and kf , inc tho use in pre exp .
not we did use tim edg at all , bec it doe not mak sen wit onl one unl poi .
the res are sho in fig 123 ( a ) wit sev dif - fer set of kc and kf .
the acc are all ver low .
bas thi sho tha no com of col and fac wor if one onl use the lab dat .
the we see tha usi all the unl dat is qui imp for our sem - sup lea app .
in thi cas , rat tha pre eac exa to be the unw ave of its nei , the pre bec a wei ave .
fig 123 ( b ) sho tha by set wei jud ( in par , giv mor em - pha to tim - edg ) one can sub imp per - man , esp on sma sam .
a rel pro is to lea the par for k - nea nei , i . e .
kc for col edg and kf for fac edg .
we are cur ex - plo met for lea goo gra par set fro a sma set of lab sam .
in thi pap we for a per ide tas in low qua web cam ima as a sem - sup lea pro , and pre exp res .
the exp - men set res a vid sur sce : low ima qua and fra rat lab dat is sca and is onl ava on the rst day of a per app fa - cia inf is not alw ava in the ima .
our exp dem tha the sem - sup lea alg bas on har fun are cap of uti - liz the unl dat to ide ten ind wit gre tha 123 acc .
the dat is now ava to the res com .
we ass all the edg equ wei .
a nat ext - sio is to giv cer typ of edg mor wei tha oth - ers : e . g . , per giv tim - edg mor wei tha col -
we tha hen sch for his hel wit the fac det , and ral gro for hel dis on im - age pro .
we als tha the vol for par -
fre , har fun
fre , har fun + cmn
lab set siz
lab set siz
( a ) har fun acc
( b ) har fun + cmn acc
fig fun and cmn acc on two gra .
als sho is the svm lin ker bas .
( a ) the har fun - tio alg sig out the lin ker svm , dem tha the sem - sup lea alg suc uti the unl dat to ass peo in ima wit the ide .
( b ) the sem - sup lea alg cla eve mor acc by inc cla pro kno thr the cmn heu .
pat in the fre dat col .
thi wor was sup in par by the nat sci fou und gra ccr - 123 and iis - 123
sch , h .
( 123 ) .
fea - cen eva for efc cas obj det .
iee con on com vis and pat rec ( cvp ) .
