tcp thr pre is an imp cap in wid are ove and mul - hom net whe mul pat may exi bet dat sou and rec .
in thi pap we des a new , lig met for tcp thr pre tha can gen - ate acc for for a bro ran of le siz and pat con - tio .
our met is bas on sup vec reg mod tha use a com of pri le tra and mea of sim pat pro .
we cal and eva the cap of our thr pre in an ext set of lab - bas exp - ime whe gro tru can be est for pat pro usi hig acc pas mea .
we rep the per - man for our met in the ide cas of usi our pas pat pro mea ove a ran of tes con .
our res sho tha for bul tra in hea tra , tcp thr - put is pre wit 123 of the act val 123 of the tim , rep nea a 123 - fol imp in acc ove pri in the sam lab env , we ass our met usi les acc act pro mea of pat pro , and sho tha pre can be mad wit 123 of the act val nea 123 of the tim ove a ran of le siz and tra con .
thi res rep app a 123 imp ove his - bas met wit a muc low imp on end - to - end pat .
fin , we imp our pre in a too cal pat and tes it in exp con on wid are pat .
the res dem tha pat pre tcp thr - put acc ove a var of pat .
cat and sub des : c . 123 ( per of sys - tem ) : mea tec gen ter : mea key : tcp thr pre , act mea , ma - chi lea , sup vec reg
the ava of mul pat bet sou and rec ena by con dis , mul - hom , and ove or vir -
per to mak dig or har cop of all or par of thi wor for per or cla use is gra wit fee pro tha cop are not mad or dis for pro or com adv and tha cop bea thi not and the ful cit on the rst pag .
to cop oth , to rep , to pos on ser or to red to lis , req pri spe per and / or a fee .
sig , jun 123 , 123 , san die , cal , usa .
cop 123 acm 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 . . . $12 .
tua net sug the nee for the abi to sel the bes pat for a par dat tra .
a com sta poi for thi pro is to den bes in ter of the thr tha can be ach ove a par pat bet two end hos for a giv siz tcp tra .
in thi cas , the fun cha is to dev a tec tha pro an acc tcp thr for - cas for arb and pos hig dyn end - to - end pat .
the are sev dif in gen acc tcp thr - put pre .
pri wor on the pro has lar fal int tho tha inv for - bas app and tho tha inv his - bas app .
for - bas met , as the nam sug , pre thr usi mat - ica exp tha rel a tcp sen beh to pat and end hos pro suc as rtt , pac los rat , and rec win siz .
in thi cas , dif mea too can be use to gat the inp dat tha is the plu int the for to gen a pre - dic .
how , wel - kno net dyn and lim in - str acc com the bas tas of gat tim and acc pat inf , and the eve evo set of tcp imp mea tha a cor set of for - bas mod mus be mai .
his - bas tcp thr pre met are con - tua str .
the typ use som kin of sta tim ser for bas on thr mea der fro pri le tra , gat eit pas ( e . g . , by tap a lin ) or act ( e . g . , by per sen a le ) .
in rec wor , he et al .
sho con tha his - bas met are gen mor acc tha for - bas met .
how , the aut car out the con und whi his - bas pre can be eff ( 123 ) .
als , his - bas app des to dat rem rel ina and pot hea wei pro foc on bul tra thr pre .
our goa is to dev an acc , lig too for pre end - to - end tcp thr for arb le siz .
we inv the hyp tha the acc of his - bas pre can be imp and the imp on a pat red by aug the pre - dic wit per mea of sim pat pro .
the que add in thi pap inc : 123 ) whi pat pro - tie or com of pat pro inc the acc of tcp thr pre the mos ? and 123 ) wha is a min set of le siz req to gen his - bas thr pre for arb le siz ? add goa for our tcp thr pre too are : 123 ) to mak it rob to lev shi ( i . e . , whe pat pro cha sig ) whi he et al .
sho to be a cha in his - bas pre , and 123 ) to inc a con - den val wit pre met wit lit tre in pri his - bas thr pre .
the ana fra for the stu tha we rep in thi pa - per is bas on the use of sup vec reg ( svr ) , a pow - erf mac lea tec tha has sho goo emp per in man dom .
svr has sev att pro - tie tha mak it wel sui for our stu : 123 ) it can acc mul inp ( i . e . , mul fea ) and wil use all of the to gen - era the thr pre , whi is a req for our ap - pro .
123 ) svr doe not com to any par par for , unl for - bas app .
ins , svr mod are exi bas on the use of so - cal non - lin ker .
thi exp pow is an imp rea for the pot for mor acc pre - dic tha for - bas met .
123 ) svr is com efc , whi mak it att for inc in a too tha can be dep and use in the wid are .
for our app , we ext the bas svr pre wit a con int est bas on an ass tha pre err are nor dis , an ass tha we tes in our lab exp .
est - tio of con int is cri for on - lin pre , sin ret can be tri if mea thr fal out a con int com thr pre mea .
we beg by usi lab - bas exp to inv the rel bet tcp thr and mea of pat pro inc ava ban ( ab ) , que del ( q ) , and pac los ( l ) .
the lab env ena us to gat hig acc pas mea of thr and all pat pro , and dev and tes our svr - bas pre ove a ran of rea tra con .
our ini exp fo - cus on bul tra and com gro tru mea of thr of tar tcp ows ( i . e . , act thr ) wit pre - dic tcp thr val gen by mul ins of our svr - bas too tra wit dif com of pat pro .
we com the act and pre thr usi the rel pre err ( e ) met des in ( 123 ) .
our re - sul sho tha thr pre can be imp by as muc as a fac of 123 whe inc pat pro in the svr - bas too ver a his - bas pre .
for exa , our res sho tha the svr - bas pre are wit 123 of act 123 of the tim for bul tra und hea tra con ( 123 av - era uti on the bot lin ) .
int , we nd tha the pat pro tha pro the mos imp to the svr - bas pre are q and l res , and tha inc ab pro alm no imp to the pre .
tow our goa of dev a rob too tha can be use in the wid are , we exp the cor svr - bas too in thr way .
fir , the ini tes wer bas ent on pas tra mea - men , whi are unl to be wid ava in the int .
to add thi , we tes our svr - bas app usi mea - men of q and l pro by the bad too ( 123 ) .
the red - tio in acc of act ver pas mea of q and l res in a cor red in acc of svr - bas thr pre for bul tra und hea tra con - dit on the ord of abo 123 a sig imp on his - bas est .
it is als imp to not tha thr - put pre bas on tra plu lig act mea - men res in a dra low net pro loa tha pri his - bas met usi lon - liv tcp tra and hea - wei pro - bas est of ava ban suc as de - scr in ( 123 ) .
we qua thi dif in sec 123
sec , we exp wit tra dat in ord to ena pre ove a ran of le siz ins of onl bul tra whi is the foc of pri wor .
we fou tha a tra set of onl thr
le siz res in acc thr pre for a wid ran of le siz , whi hig ano str of our svr - bas app .
thi , he et al .
sho tha lev shi in pat con - dit pos dif for thr pre ( 123 ) , sug the nee for ada .
to acc thi , we aug the bas svr pre wit a con int est as a mec for tri a ret pro .
we sho in sec 123 tha our tec is abl to ada to lev shi qui and to mai hig acc on pat whe lev shi occ .
thi com of cap was suf for us to dev an act pro too for tcp thr pre we cal pat - per 123 tha we dep and tes in the wid are .
thr a se - rie of exp ove six end - to - end pat in the ron tes ( 123 ) pat , we fou tha in the bes cas pat pro tcp thr - put est wit 123 of act val 123 of the tim , and in the wor cas pro est wit 123 of act 123 of the tim .
we bel tha imp in too for gat pat pro inf wil lea to cor imp in thr pre acc .
we pla to inv the pos - bil in fut wor .
rel wor
sin the sem wor by jac and kar est the bas mec for mod tcp imp ( 123 ) , it has bee wel kno tha man fac aff tcp thr .
in gen - era , the inc the tcp imp , the und net str , and the dyn of the tra sha the lin on the pat bet two hos .
ste tow und tcp beh hav bee tak in a num of stu inc ( 123 , 123 ) whi dev - ope sto mod for tcp bas on pac los cha - tic .
a ser of stu dev inc det mat exp for tcp thr bas on mod the det of the tcp con con alg and mea of pat pro ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
whi our pre als rel on mea - sur of pat pro , the svr - bas app is com dis fro pri for - bas mod .
a lar num of emp stu of tcp le tra and thr beh hav pro val ins int tcp per - for .
pax con one of the mos com stu - ies of tcp beh ( 123 , 123 ) .
whi tha wor exp a ple of iss , it pro som of the rst emp dat on the cha - ist of pac del , que , and los wit tcp le tra .
bar and cro app of cri pat ana to tcp le tra pro an eve mor det per on how del , que , and los rel to tcp per ( 123 ) .
in ( 123 ) , bal - akr et al .
stu thr fro the per of a lar web ser and sho how it var dep on end - hos and tim of day cha .
fin , det stu of thr var ove tim and cor bet thr and ow siz can be fou in ( 123 , 123 ) , res .
the stu inf our wor in ter of the bas cha of thr tha mus be con whe bui our pre .
pas stu of his - bas met for tcp thr pre - dic are bas on the use of sta tim ser for met .
vaz et al .
com sev dif sim for - cas met to est tcp thr for tra of lar les and nd sim per acr pre ( 123 ) .
a wel - kno sys for thr pre is the net wea ser ( 123 ) .
tha sys mak bul tra for by att -
ing to cor mea of pri lar tcp le tra wit per sma ( 123 ) tcp le tra ( ref to as ban pro ) .
the dua sys for tcp thr pre is des in ( 123 ) .
tha sys mak thr est bas on an exp wei mov ave of lar siz ban - wid pro ( 123 tot ) .
sim to our wor , lu et al .
fou tha pre err gen fol a nor dis .
as men ear , he et al .
ext stu his - bas pre - dic usi thr dif tim ser for ( 123 ) .
our svr - bas met inc inf fro pri tra for tra , but oth onl req mea fro lig pro and is gen for all les siz , not jus bul tra .
man tec hav bee dev to mea pat pro - ert ( see cai exc sum pag for exa ( 123 ) ) .
pri wor on pat pro mea dir our sel of lig pro too to col dat for our pre .
rec stu hav foc on mea ava ban on a pat .
ab is den inf as the min unu cap on an end - to - end pat , whi is a con app pro wit res to thr pre .
a num of stu hav de - scr tec for mea ab inc ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
we inv the abi of ab mea as wel as oth pat pro to enh tcp thr pre .
fin , mac lea tec hav not bee wid ap - pli to net mea .
one not exc is in net int det ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
the onl oth app of sup - por vec reg tha we kno of is to the pro of usi ip add str to pre rou tri tim lat ( 123 ) .
a mul mac
the mai hyp of thi wor is tha his - bas tcp thr -
put pre can be imp by inc mea of end - to - end pat pro .
the tas of thr pre can be for as a reg pro , i . e . , pre a rea - val num bas on mul rea - val inp fea .
eac le tra is rep by a fea vec x rd of dim d .
eac dim is an obs fea , e . g . , the le siz , pro mea of pat pro suc as que del , los , ava - abl ban , etc .
giv x , we wan to pre the thr y r .
thi is ach by tra a reg fun f : rd 123 r , and app f to x .
the fun f is tra usi tra dat , i . e . , his le tra wit kno fea and the cor - res mea thr .
the ana fra tha we app to thi pro is sup - por vec reg ( svr ) , a sta - of - the - art mac lea too for mul reg .
svr is the reg ver of the pop sup vec mac ( 123 ) .
it has a sol the fou , and is fav in pra for its goo emp per - man .
we bri des svr bel , and ref rea to ( 123 , 123 ) for det , and to ( 123 ) as an exa of an svr sof pac .
to und svr we sta fro a lin reg fun f ( x ) = b x + b 123
ass we hav a tra set of n le tra ( ( x12 , y12 ) , .
, ( xn , yn ) ) .
tra inv est the d - dim wei vec b and off b 123 so tha f ( xi ) is clo to the tru yi for all tra exa i = 123 .
the are man way to mea - sur clo .
the tra mea use in svr is the e - ins los , den as
l ( f ( x ) , y ) = ( cid : 123 )
| f ( x ) y| e
if | f ( x ) y| e
thi los fun mea the abs err bet pre and tru , but wit a tol of e .
the val e dep in gen , and in our exp we set it to zer .
oth los fun ( e . g . , the squ los ) are pos too , and oft giv sim per .
the are not exp in thi pap .
i=1 l ( f ( xi ) , yi ) .
it mig see tha the app way to est the par b 123 is to min the ove los on the tra set ( cid : 123 ) n
how if d is lar com to the num of tra exa n , one can oft t the tra dat per .
thi is dan , bec the tru y in tra dat act con ran uct - tio , and f is par tti the noi .
suc f wil gen poo , i . e .
cau bad pre on fut tes dat .
thi phe is kno as ove .
to pre ove , one can red the deg of fre in f by sel a sub of fea , thu re - duc d .
an imp but mor con alt is to req f to be smo , den as hav a sma par nor kb k12
com los and smo , we est the par b by sol the fol opt pro
l ( f ( xi ) , yi ) + kb k12
whe c is a wei par to bal the two ter .
the val of c is usu sel by a pro cal cro - val , whe the tra set is ran spl int two par , the reg fun wit dif c are tra on one par and the per - for mea on the oth par , and nal one sel the c val wit the bes per .
in our exp we use c = 123 usi cro - val .
the opt pro can be sol usi a qua pro .
123 , x12 , x12 , x12
non , a lin fun f ( x ) is fai res and may not be abl to des the tru fun y .
a sta mat - cal tri is to aug the fea vec x wit non - lin bas de - riv fro x .
for exa , if x = ( x12 , x12 ) , one can aug it wit f ( x ) = ( x12 , x12 123 ) .
the lin reg in the aug fea spa f ( x ) = b f ( x ) +b 123 the pro a non - lin t in the ori fea spa .
not b has mor dim tha bef .
the mor dim f ( x ) has , the mor exp f bec .
in the ext ( and oft ben ) cas f ( x ) can eve hav in - nit dim .
it see com imp to est the cor inn - dim par b .
how , if we con the pri opt pro ( 123 ) int its dua for , one can sho tha the num of dua par is act n in - ste of the dim of f ( x ) .
fur , the dua pro nev use the aug fea f ( x ) exp .
it onl use the inn pro bet pai of aug fea f ( x ) f ( x ) k ( x , x ) .
the fun k is kno as the ker , and can be com - put fro the ori fea vec x , x .
for ins , the ra -
dia bas fun ( rbf ) ker k ( x , x ) = exp ( cid : 123 ) g kx xk1 ( cid : 123 ) im - pli cor to an inn dim fea spa .
in our exp we use a rbf ker wit g = 123 , aga sel by cro - val .
the dua pro can sti be efc sol usi a qua pro .
svr the wor as fol : for tra , one col a tra set ( ( x12 , y12 ) , .
, ( xn , yn ) ) , and spe a ker k .
svr sol the dua opt pro , whi equ nds the pot ver hig - dim par b and b 123 in the aug - men fea spa den by k .
thi pro a pot 123 b are the coe of a pol fun , the fun wil ten to be smo ( cha slo ) if kb k12 is sma , or noi if kb k12 is lar .
hig non - lin pre fun f ( x ) .
the fun f ( x ) can the be app to arb tes cas x , and pro a pre .
in our cas , tes cas are the le siz for whi a pre is to be mad and cur pat pro bas on act mea .
exp env and
thi sec des the lab env and exp - men pro tha we use to eva our thr pre .
123 exp env
the lab tes use in our exp is sho in fig - ure 123
it con of com end hos con to a dum - lik top of cis gsr 123 rou .
bot mea and bac tra was gen and rec by the end hos .
tra owe fro the sen hos on sep pat via gig - bit eth to sep cis gsr ( hop b in the gur ) whe it was for on oc1 ( 123 mb / s ) lin .
thi con was cre in ord to acc a pre pas mea sys , as we des bel .
tra fro the oc1 lin was the mul ont a sin oc1 ( 123 mb / s ) lin ( hop c in the gur ) whi for the bot whe con too pla .
we use an adt sx - 123 har - bas pro del emu on the oc1 lin to add 123 mil del in eac dir for all exp , and con the bot que to hol app - ima 123 mil of pac .
pac exi the oc1 lin via ano cis gsr 123 ( hop d in the gur ) and pas to rec hos via gig eth .
the mea hos and tra gen hos wer ide - cal con wor run fre 123 .
the wor - tio had 123 ghz int pen 123 pro wit 123 gb of ram and int pro / 123 net car .
the wer als dua - hom , so tha all man tra was on a sep net tha dep in fig 123
we dis the tcp thr his cac fea in fre 123 , con by the var net . ine . tcp . ini . ena , to all tcp thr to be det by cur pat pro - tie rat tha thr his .
a key asp of our tes was the mea sys use to est the tru pat pro for our eva .
opt spl - ter wer att to bot the ing and egr lin at hop c and end dag 123 and 123 pas mon car wer use to cap tra of all pac ent and lea the bot nod .
by com pac hea , we wer abl to ide whi pac wer los at the con out que dur exp , and acc mea ava ban on the con lin .
fur , the fac tha the mea of pac ent and lea hop c wer syn at a ver ne gra ( i . e . , a sin mic ) ena us to pre mea que de - lay thr the con rou .
123 exp pro
we gen bac tra by run the har ip tra - c gen ( 123 ) bet up to fou pai of tra gen hos as ill in fig 123
har pro ope - loo sel - sim tra usi a hea - tai le siz dis , mim a mix of app tra suc as web and pee - to - pee app com - mon in tod int .
har was con to pro ave - age off loa ran fro app 123 to 123 on the bot lin ( the oc1 bet hop c and d ) .
mea tra in the tes con of le tra , and act mea of que del , pac los , and ava
ban .
for the mea tra hos , we set the tcp re - cei win siz to 123 kb .
in rec win lim tra , le tra thr was app 123 mb / s .
tha is , if the ava ban on the bot lin was 123 mb / s or mor , the ow was rec win ( rwn ) lim , oth it was con - ges win ( cwn ) lim .
we exp wit bot rwn - and cwn - lim sce .
for act mea of ava ban and que / los , we use the yaz ( 123 ) and bad ( 123 ) too , res .
yaz est end - to - end ava ban usi a rel low - ove , ite met sim to pat ( 123 ) .
sin the pro pro is ite , the tim tak to pro an est can var fro a few sec to ten of sec .
bad rep two cha of los epi , nam the fre of los epi , and mea dur of los epi , usi a lig pro pro .
we use a pro pro par p of 123 .
oth par wer set acc to ( 123 ) .
in the res of the pap , we ref to bot los cha com as los or l .
bad req the sen and rec to be tim - syn .
to acc our wid are exp , the bad rec was mod to ree pro bac to the sen , whe the wer tim and log as on the ori rec .
thu , the sen clo was use for all pro tim .
we use bad to mea los cha bec it is the mos acc los cha mea too cur ava if acc los rat mea too bec ava in the fut , los rat may rep fre and dur as the los cha we use for our pre mec .
the mea col pro con of the fol :
run bad for 123 sec .
run yaz to obt an est of the ava ban .
tra a le .
in the rem of the pap , we ref to the abo ser of ste as a sin exp , and to a num of con exp as a ser .
exp in the wid are omi the ava ban - wid mea .
ind exp in a ser are sep - rat by a 123 sec per .
ser of exp dif fro eac oth in tha eit the bac tra is dif bet ser , or the dis of le siz tra is dif , or the exp - ime are con ove dif phy pat .
eac ser of exp is div int two mut exc tra and tes set for the svr .
the svr mec doe not req tha the set of exp tha for the tra and tes set be con or con in tim .
in con , his - bas pre met gen req con his inf sin the rel on sta tim - bas for mod .
in our eva we use con por for tra and tes set , i . e .
gin par of a ser bec the tra set and the res the tes set .
the num of exp in tra and tes set may be the sam or dif .
not of sep tra and tes dat set are not req for his - bas met rat , pre are mad ove the con not of dis and rec his .
in our eva of his - bas met , we use the nal pre of the tra set as the sta poi for the tes set .
fro eac ser of exp , we gat thr dif set of mea .
the rst set , ora pas mea ( opm ) , are ab , q , and l mea dur a le tra tha we obt fro pac tra .
we ref to the mea as ora bec the giv us ess per inf abo
tra gen hos
dag mon hos
cis 123 cis 123
tra gen hos
123 : lab tes .
cro tra owe acr one of two rou at hop b , whi pro tra owe thr the oth .
opt spl con end dag 123 and 123 pas pac cap car to the tes bet hop b and c , and hop c and d .
mea tra ( le tra , los pro , and ava ban pro ) owe fro lef to rig .
con in the tes occ at hop c .
in pra , thi inf wou not be ava whe mak a pre for an arb pat .
we use thi inf to est the bes pos acc of our pre - dic mec .
the sec set , act mea ( am ) , are the mea fro our act mea too .
not tha , unl the opm , the am pro ab , q , and l val bef the act tra .
the thi set , pra pas mea ( ppm ) , are tra - bas mea of ab , q and l tak at the sam tim as am are tak .
the pur is to sho the bes pos - ble acc of our pre mec wit mea tha can be obt in pra , or to sho how muc bet the acc - rac wou be if the act mea had per acc .
all mea are agg for con on the pat : the are not spe to any sin tcp ow on the pat .
for exp in the wid are , we cre a too , pat .
thi too , des to run bet a pai of end hos , ini tcp le tra and pat pro mea ( usi our mod ver of bad ) , and pro thr est usi our svr - bas met .
it can be con to gen arb le siz tra for bot tra and tes and ini ret - ing whe lev shi are ide as des in sec 123
123 eva pre acc
we den the act thr by r and the pre thr - put by r .
we use the met rel pre err e int in ( 123 ) to eva the acc of an ind thr pre - tio .
rel pre err is den as
min ( r , r )
in wha fol , we use the dis of the abs val of e to com dif pre met .
bui a rob pre
thi sec des how we dev , cal , and eva - uat our pre mec thr an ext set of tes con in our lab tes - bed .
123 cal and eva in the hig
the rst ste in dev our svr - bas thr pre - tor is to nd the com of tra fea whi lea to the mos acc pre ove a wid var of pat con .
we tra the pre usi a fea vec for eac tes tha con dif com of our set of tar pat mea - men ( ab , q , l ) and the mea thr .
alt we re - fer to bot los fre and los dur tog as l or los
for exp eas , the mea are two dif fea in the fea vec .
the tra svr mod is the use to pre thr for a fea vec con the cor set of net mea , and we com the pre acc for the dif com .
we als com the acc of svr to the exp wei
mov ave ( ewm ) his - bas pre ( hb ) des in ( 123 ) , ri+ = a ri + ( 123 a ) ri , wit an a val of 123 .
we do not rep det res fro tes wit low uti - tio on the bot lin , i . e . , rec win bou ows , be - cau in the low uti sce the is ver lit var in thr of ows .
our svr - bas pre gen 123 ac - cur for for the tes .
how , any rea pre met can for thr qui acc in thi sce .
for exa , the for - bas pre use in ( 123 ) , whi is bas on ( 123 ) , per poo in hig uti sce , but is acc in low uti sce .
for mos of the res rep , we gen an ave of 123 mb / s of bac tra to cre hig uti on our oc1 ( 123 mb / s ) bot lin .
we use one set of 123 exp for tra and ano set of 123 exp for tes .
an 123 mb le was tra in eac exp .
in our ini exp we use an 123 mb le bec it is lar eno to mak slo - sta an ins fac in thr for our rec win siz of 123 kb; in lat sec we con sma le siz whe slo - sta has a big imp on ove thr .
fig 123 to 123 sho sca plo com the act and pre - dic thr usi dif pre met as dis bel .
a poi on the dia rep per pre acc - rac the far a poi is fro the dia , the gre the pre -
123 . 123 usi pat mea fro an ora
fig 123 sho the pre acc sca plo for the hb met .
fig 123 to 123 sho the pre err wit svr usi ora pas mea ( opm ) for dif com of pat mea in the fea vec .
for exa , svr - opm - que mea tha onl que del mea wer use to tra and tes , whi svr - opm - ab - que mea tha bot ava ban and que del mea wer use to tra and tes .
tab 123 sho rel pre err for hb for and for svm - opm - bas pre .
val in the tab ind the fra of pre for a giv met wit a giv acc lev .
for exa , the rst two col of the rst row in tab 123 mea tha 123 of hb pre hav rel pre err of 123 or sma whi 123 of svr - opm - ab pre hav rel pre err of 123 or sma .
we pre sca plo
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
123 : com of pre acc of hb , svr - opm , svr - ppm , and svr - am in hig bac tra con .
in add to tab dat to pro ins int how dif pat pro con to thr pre in the svr met .
fro fig 123 , we can see tha the pre for the hb pre - dic are rat dif sca aro the dia , and tha pre in low - thr con ten to hav lar rel - tiv err .
fig 123 , 123 , and 123 sho the beh of the svr pre usi a sin mea of pat pro in the fea vec , l , and q res .
the ab and q gra hav a sim ove tre : pre are acc ( i . e . , poi are clo to the dia ) for hig act thr val , but far fro the dia , alm in a hor lin , for low val of act thr .
the l gra has the opp tre : poi are clo to the dia for low val of act thr , and for a hor lin for hig val of act thr .
the exp for the tre lie in the fac tha le tra - fer wit low act thr exp los , whi le tra wit hig act thr do not exp any los .
whe los occ , the val of ab and q for the pat are nea con .
ab is alm zer , and q is the max pos val ( whi dep on the amo of buf ava at the bot lin in the pat ) .
in thi cas , thr dep on the val of l .
hen , l app to be a goo pre whe the is los on the pat , and ab and q , bei con in thi cas , hav no pre pow , res in hor lin , i . e . , a sin val of pre thr .
on the oth han , whe the is no los , l is a con - sta wit val zer , so l has no pre pow , whi ab and q are abl to pre thr qui acc .
fig 123 to 123 sho imp on the pre acc obt by usi mor tha one pat pro in the svr fea vec .
we can see tha whe l is com wit eit ab or q , the hor lin on the gra are rep by poi muc clo to the dia , so com l wit ab or q all the svr met to pre acc in bot los and los net con .
mea of ab and q app to ser the sam fun , nam , hel to pre thr in los con .
thi obs beg the que : do we rea nee bot ab and q , or can we use jus one of the two and sti ach the sam pre - tio acc ? to ans thi que , we com ab - los and los - que pre wit eac oth and wit ab - los - que pre ( i . e . , fig 123 , 123 , and 123 ) .
the gen tre in all thr cas , as see fro the sca plo , is the sam : the hor - tal lin of poi is red or eli , sug tha pre - tio fro non - con - val mea is occ for bot los and los net con .
if we com the ab - los and los - que gra mor clo , we obs two thi .
fir , in the los pre cas , the poi are clo to the dia - nal in the los - que cas tha in the ab - los cas .
sec , in the los - que cas , the tra in the pre fro the los - les to the los cas is smo , i . e . , the is no hor lin of poi , whi in the ab - los cas the is sti a hor lin of poi in the act thr ran of 123 mb / s .
thi sug - ges tha q is a mor acc pre tha ab in the los cas .
the rel pre err dat of tab 123 sup thi : svr wit a fea vec con los - que inf pre - dic thr wit 123 of act for 123 of tra , whi a fea vec con ab - los mea pre wit the sam acc lev for 123 of tra .
fin , the is no dif - fer in acc ( eit qua or qua ) bet los - que and ab - los - que .
the abo dis sug tha ab mea are not re - qui for hig acc thr pre , and tha a com -
123 : rel acc of his - bas ( hb ) thr pre and svr - bas pre usi dif typ of ora pas pat mea ( svr - opm ) in the fea vec .
tab val ind the fra of pre wit a giv acc lev .
123 : rel acc of his - bas ( hb ) thr pre and svr - bas pre usi tra - bas pas pat mea - men ( ppm ) or act pat mea ( am ) .
tab val in - dic the fra of pre wit a giv acc lev .
nat of l and q is suf ( giv our fra ) .
thi obs - vat is not onl sur , but rat goo new .
pri wor has sho tha acc mea of ab req at lea mod - ate amo of pro tra ( 123 , 123 ) , and som for - bas tcp thr est sch tak as a giv tha ab mea - men are nec for acc thr pre ( 123 ) .
con , mea of l and q can be ver lig pro pro ( 123 ) .
we dis mea ove fur in sec -
123 . 123 usi pra pas and act pat mea -
so far , we hav con the pre acc of svr bas on onl ora pas mea ( opm ) .
thi giv us the bas for the bes - cas acc wit svr , and als pro in - sig int how svr use dif pat pro for pre .
tab 123 and the gra in fig 123 sho tha hb pre 123 of tra wit 123 of act whi svr - opm - los - que pre - dic 123 , an alm 123 - fol imp .
in pra , how , per mea of pat pro are not ava , so in wha fol we ass svr usi mea tha are mor lik tho ava in the wid are .
we com hb wit svr - ppm and svr - am .
due to spa lim , we pre onl los - que and ab - los - que re - sul for svr .
we cho the bec we exp ab - los - que to hav the hig acc as it has the mos inf abo pat pro , and los - que bec it is ver lig and has acc equ to ab - los - que for svr - opm .
fig 123 and 123 sho pre and act thr for svr - ppm and fig 123 and 123 sho pre and act thr
for svr - am .
tab 123 pre rel pre err dat for hb , svr - ppm and svr - am .
we wis to exa thr iss : rst , whe our ndi tha los - que has the sam pre acc - rac as ab - los - que fro the svr - opm cas hol for the svr - ppm and svr - am cas sec , whe svr - ppm and svr - am hav the sam acc and thi , how svr - am acc com - par wit hb pre acc .
all the sca plo fro fig 123 to 123 are qua ver sim thi is enc bec it sug two thi .
fir , los - que has sim pre acc as ab - los - que , i . e . , the obs fro svr - opm sti hol , so we can ach goo pre acc wit hav to mea ab .
the rel pre err dat in tab 123 sup thi gra obs : ab - los - que has onl sli bet acc tha los - que for bot svr - ppm and svr - am .
sec , svr - am has acc sim to svr - ppm , i . e . , usi act mea too to est - mat pat pro yie pre alm as acc as hav - ing gro - tru mea .
the dat in tab 123 fur sub - sta thi obs .
sim acc bet svr - ppm pre and svr - am pre is imp bec in rea wid - are int pat ins is gen not ava for pro acc pas mea .
fin , we com hb wit svr - am .
alt fig 123 , 123 and 123 are qua sim , svr - am has a tig clu of poi aro the dia for hig act thr tha hb .
thu , svr - am app to hav hig acc tha hb .
as ta - ble 123 sho , svr - am - los - que pre thr wit 123 of act acc 123 of the tim , whi hb doe so onl 123 of the tim .
hen , for hig tra sce , svr - am - los - que , the pra dep lig ver of the svr - bas pre mec , sig out hb pre .
123 . 123 the nat of pre err
lu et al .
( 123 ) obs in the stu tha thr pre err wer app nor in dis .
as the aut not , nor wou jus sta com of con int .
we exa the dis of err in our exp and als fou evi sug of nor .
fig 123 sho two nor qua - qua ( q - q ) plo for svr - opm - los - que ( fig 123 ) and svr - am - los - que ( fig 123 ) .
sam tha are con wit a nor dis for app - ima a str lin in the gra , par tow the cen .
in fig 123 and 123 , we see tha the thr pre sam - ple in eac cas for app str lin .
the obs - tio are con wit nor in the dis of pre err .
err dis fro oth exp wer als con - sis wit the nor dis , but are not sho due to spa lim .
we fur dis the iss of ret and of de - tec est pro in sec 123
123 eva of pre acc wit
lev - shi bac tra
in the pre sec , we con svr and hb pre acc und var but sta bac tra .
in thi sec , we con the cas whe the is a shi in ave loa of bac tra .
we con our tra gen pro to cyc bet 123 mb / s and 123 mb / s ave off loa .
wit 123 mb / s tra , the is vir no los alo the pat and the thr is bou by the rec win siz .
wit 123 mb / s tra , the oc1 bot - tle is sat and end los ens .
the pro is to run 123 mb / s bac tra for 123 min , fol by 123
( a ) q - q plo svr - opm - los - que .
( b ) q - q plo
123 : nor q - q plo for pre err wit ( a ) ora mea - sur and ( b ) act mea of los - que .
mb / s of tra for 123 hou 123 min , rep thi cyc sev tim .
we fol the mea pro in sec 123 for col ab , l , q , and thr mea .
we rst tra our svr pre in the 123 mb / s env , and tes it in the 123 mb / s env .
the col lab opm - l - q tra in tab 123 sho the res .
cle , the pre acc is ver poo : all pre are off by a fac of two or mor .
nex , we tra the pre on one who cyc of 123 mb / s and 123 mb / s , and tes it on a ser of cyc .
the las two col of tab 123 , opm - los - que and am - los - que , and fig 123 sho the re - sul fro the exp .
the x - axi in fig 123 is tim rep - sen by the num of le tra tha hav com , and the y - axi is thr .
in thi cas , bot svr - opm and svr - am pre - dic thr wit hig acc .
svr - opm pre thr wit 123 of act 123 of the tim , and svr - am 123 of the tim .
for com , the rst col of tab 123 and fig 123 pre res for the his - bas pre .
hb acc is sig - nic low tha svr acc , onl abo hal as muc as svr - opm .
fig 123 exp why .
aft eve lev - shi in the bac tra , the hb pre tak tim to re - ada .
in con - tra , no ada tim is req for the svr pre if it has alr bee tra on the ran of exp tra con .
one iss reg shi in ave tra vol is how man sam fro a new , pre uns tra lev are nee to ade tra the pre .
to exa thi iss , we tra our pre on two new kin of ave tra loa : a ste con - sti 123 min of 123 mb / s tra fol by 123 min of 123 mb / s tra res in 123 exp at the hig tra lev , and a ste con of 123 min of 123 mb / s tra fol - low by 123 min of 123 mb / s tra res in 123 exp
fil tra tim
( a ) lev shi : svr - am - los - que
fil tra tim
( b ) lev shi : hb
123 : pre acc in flu bac tra
at the hig tra lev .
we cal the con svr - am - l - q - 123 and svr - am - l - q - 123 res .
the pre acc of the sch is pre in tab 123
as can be see in the tab , the tra sch yie mos of the acc of svr - am - l - q , whi tra at the 123 mb / s lev for app 123 exp - men .
the res dem tha fai sma tra set fro new tra lev are nee for acc pre .
a com of tim ser plo fro the exp ( not sho due to spa con ) pro fur ins int how pre acc imp wit lar tra set .
bot svr - am - l - q - 123 and svr - am - l - q - 123 hav per whe the pre thr is vir - all con eve tho the act thr is not .
suc per are sho for svr - am - l - q - 123 com to svr - am - l - q - 123
svr - am - l - q ( fig 123 ) has no suc per .
the rea for thi eff is tha pre inc few sam may not inc a bro eno ran of pos net con .
how , the svr pre mec can sti yie hig acc usi a sma set of tra sam if the sam are rep of the ran of net con alo a pat .
123 eva of pre acc for dif -
fer fil siz
we hav so far con onl 123 mb le tra in ste 123 of the exp pro of sec 123 .
for a tcp rec win - dow of 123 kb , the maj of the lif of an 123 mb tra is spe in tcp con avo pha .
how , our goa is an acc pre for a ran of le siz , not jus bul tra .
pre thr for sma les is com by tcp slo sta pha in whi thr cha rap wit inc le siz due to the dou of the win eve rou - tri tim , and bec pac los dur the tra of a sma le can hav a lar rel imp on thr .
we hyp tha usi dif -
123 : rel acc of his - bas ( hb ) and svr - bas thr pre usi ora pat mea ( opm ) and act mea ( am ) whe pre are sub to shi in ave bac tra vol .
123 : com of rel acc of svr - bas thr pre - dic usi act mea ( am ) and dif num of tra sam .
123 tra sam are use in am - los - que , 123 sam for am - l - q - 123 , and 123 sam for am - l - q - 123
bac - gro tra con of shi in ave tra vol bet 123 mb / s and 123 mb / s .
fer le siz to tra the svr pre wil lea to acc for - cas for a bro ran of le siz - som not tre in pri hb pre stu .
we con exp usi bac tra at an ave - age off loa of 123 mb / s and usi a ser of 123 tra set con of bet 123 and 123 uni le siz .
the le siz for the tra set are bet 123 kb and 123 mb .
the rst tra set con of a sin le siz of 123 mb , the sec tra set con of two le siz of 123 kb and 123 mb , and the thi tra set add a le siz of 123 kb .
sub tra set sam the ran bet 123 kb and 123 mb suc tha the fra of a tra lif spe in slo sta cov a wid ran .
tes set for our exp con of 123 le siz bet 123 kb and 123 mb a muc mor div set tha the tra set .
the tes le siz are dra fro a bia ran num gen in suc a way tha the res le tra exh a wid ran of beh , i . e . , les tha are ful tra dur slo sta , and tra con of a var pro of tim spe in slo sta ver con avo .
we use a wid ran of sma les in the tes set to all us to see how our pre per for uns and dif to pre le siz .
we do not use a wid ran for lar le siz bec we exp the thr to be alm con ( i . e . , win or con lim ) onc slo sta bec an ins fra of the tra tim .
tab 123 and 123 pre pre acc for tra set con - sis of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 dis le siz for svr - opm and svr - am .
gra in fig 123 pre svr - am res for one , two , and thr le siz in the tra set .
we do not inc gra for re - mai tra set due to spa lim : the are sim to
123 : rel acc of svr - bas pre usi ora pas mea ( opm ) and tra set con of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 dis le siz .
of dis le siz in tra
123 : rel acc of svr - bas pre usi act mea - men ( am ) and tra set con of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 dis
of dis le siz in tra
123 : det of ron pat use for wid - are exp
new mex - new yor
pat rtt ( ms )
123 : wid are res for 123 tra
123 : wid are res for 123 tra
tho for two and thr le siz in the tra set .
the rst obs - vat is tha for the sin le siz in tra , the pre err is ver hig .
thi ina is exp bec the pre has bee giv no inf abo the rel bet siz and thr for sma les .
the sec obs is tha for mor tha one le siz , pre bec dra mor acc , i . e . , the pre is abl to suc ext fro a han of siz in tra to a lar num of siz in tes .
the thi obs is tha rel err is low for lar le siz ( cor - spo to hig act thr ) whi it is hig for sma les ( low act thr ) .
thi is con wit our exp tha it wou be mor dif to acc pre thr for sma les .
the fou obs is tha for sma le siz ( i . e . , sma act thr ) , the err is alw tha of ove - pre .
the sma le in the tra set is 123 whi the sma le in the tes set is 123 .
thi dif is the cau of ove - pre err : the rel bet le siz and thr is com - cat for sma les , and wit a bro tra set , the svr mec is una to pro acc pre .
an imp nal obs is tha pre acc rea a max at thr le siz in the tra set , and the is no cle tre for fou to nin le siz in the tra set .
a fea of our tra set is tha the num of tra is alw con at one hun , so for the sin tra siz , the are one hun 123 mb tra , and for the two tra siz , the are fty 123 kb tra and fty 123 mb tra .
we bel tha acc is max - imu at thr tra siz in our exp bec the is a tra - off bet cap a div of le siz and the num of sam for a sin le siz was all to in our dis - sio of the num of sam nee for goo pre acc in sec 123 .
in oth wor , we bel tha we wou not see max acc occ at thr le siz and wou ins see an inc in acc wit inc num of le siz in the tra set if we kep the num of sam of a sin le siz con in the tra set and all the siz of the tra set to inc fro 123 to 123 , 123 , etc . , as we inc the num of le siz in the tra set .
a tho cha of the tra - off bet div of le siz and num of sam of eac le siz is fut wor .
wid are tes res
to fur eva our svr thr pre met we cre a pro too cal pat tha can gen mea - sur and mak for on wid are pat .
we use pat - per to con exp ove a sma set of pat in the ron
the ron nod use in our exp hav a ran of cpu and mem con , but all ran fre 123 and had lim - ite add exp loa dur the tim of our tes .
we con our tes ove the set of pat des in tab 123
the inc ve tra - con pat and one tra - atl pat .
whi thi pat set is mod in siz , it has rel div in pat cha - ter and rou - tri tim tha ran bet 123 and 123 .
sin we hav sho tha ab mea doe not imp thr pre acc , we eli it in the exp pro des in sec 123 .
we con exp for two tar le siz : 123 kb and 123 .
the tra and tes set con of 123 tra of a par le siz .
the exp wer con bet oct 123 , 123 and oct 123 , 123
tab 123 and 123 sho the res of the tes .
the pre ac - cur is hig on all pat for bot le siz : in man cas svr
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
act thr ( mb / s )
( a ) svr - am wit le siz of 123 mb in
( b ) svr - am wit le siz of 123 kb and 123 mb in tra set .
( c ) svr - am wit le siz of 123 kb , 123 kb , and 123 mb in tra set .
123 : sca plo for the svr - bas pre usi 123 , 123 , or 123 dis le siz in the tra set .
all res sho use act mea to tra the pre .
tes is don usi a ran of 123 le siz fro 123 kb to 123 mb .
pre acc is wit 123 of act gre tha 123 of the tim .
in mos cas , the pre acc for 123 and 123 tra is sim .
the one exc is pat 123 , whe acc is wit 123 of ori onl 123 of the tim for 123 tra - fer , but is muc hig at 123 of the tim for 123 tra .
we fou tha on thi par pat the coe of var for the act thr of 123 les is twi tha of 123 les , mak pre for 123 les mor dif and sug tha pat con wer mor dyn dur thi tes .
our mea dat sho tha man wid are pat wer lig loa dur our tes and exh ver lit var in thr bet dif le tra .
we are in the pro of ext our wid are exp set con in the hop tha we wil enc mor var on the pat , whi wil ena us to fur ren pat cap .
fin , we als eva the hb pre per in the exp and fou its for to be app the sam as svr .
we ex - pec tha , as we nd pat wit mor dyn con , our svr pre wil dis its as our lab exp dem .
thi sec add two key iss rel to run pat
in ope set .
net loa int by pat .
tra int by act mea too is of con bec exc tra can ske the net pro bei mea .
fur , net - wor ope and eng gen wis to min any im - pac mea tra may hav on cus tra .
for his - bas tcp thr est met , the spe - cic amo of tra int dep on the mea pro - toc .
for exa , two app may be tak .
the rst met is to per tra xed - siz les the sec is to all a tcp con to tra dat for a xed tim per .
the lat - ter app was tak in the his - bas eva of he et al .
to est the ove of a his - bas pre us - ing xed - dur tra , ass tha ( 123 ) the tcp con is not rwn - lim , ( 123 ) tha the xed dur of dat tra is 123 sec ( as in ( 123 ) ) , ( 123 ) thr mea are ini ev - ery 123 min , and ( 123 ) thr clo mat ava ban - wid .
for thi exa , ass tha the ave ava ban - wid for the dur of the exp is app 123 mb / s .
thu , ove a 123 min per , nea 123 gb in mea tra is pro , res in an ave ban of abo 123 mb / s .
in the cas of pat , mea ove in the tra pe - rio con of le tra and que / los pro mea .
in the tes pha , ove con sol of los mea .
ass tha we hav a 123 min tra per fol by a 123 min tes per .
ass tha le siz of 123 kb , 123 kb , and 123 mb are tra dur the tra per , usi 123 sam - ple of eac le , and tha eac le tra is pre by a 123 sec bad mea .
wit a pro pro of 123 , bad tra for eac mea is abo 123 mb .
for tes - ing , onl bad mea mus be ong .
ass tha a 123 sec bad mea is ini eve thr min - ute .
thu , ove the 123 min tra per abo 123 mb of mea tra is pro , res in an ave ban of abo 123 mb / s for the rst 123 min .
for the tes per , a tot of 123 mb of mea tra is pro , res in a rat of abo 123 kb / s .
ove , pat pro 123 kb / s on ave ove the 123 min mea per , dra dif - fer fro a sta his - bas mea app .
eve if mor con ass are mad on the his - bas app , the dif in ove are sig .
aga , the rea for the dra sav is tha onc the svr pre has bee tra , onl lig mea are req for acc - det pro in est .
an imp cap for thr est in liv dep is to det whe the are sig est err .
suc err cou be ind of a cha in net rou , cau an abr cha in del , los , and thr .
it cou als sig a pat net con , suc as an ong den - of - ser att lea to end net los alo a pat .
on the oth han , it may sim - ply be a mea out wit no net - bas cau .
as dis in sec 123 . 123 , nor all us to use sta - dar sta mac to com con int ( i . e . , us - ing mea var of pre err ) .
we sho tha pre err are con wit a nor dis and fur pro usi con int as a mec for tri ret of the svr in the fol way .
ass tha we hav tra the svr pre ove n mea per ( i . e . , we hav n thr - put sam and n sam of l and q ) .
ass tha we the col - lec k add thr sam , mak pre for eac sam and rec the err .
we the hav k err sam bet wha was pre and wha was sub mea .
giv a con lev , e . g . , 123 , we can cal con int on the sam err dis .
we can the , wit low
fre , col add thr sam to tes whe the pre err exc the int bou .
( not tha the add - tio sam may be app tra for whi pre are use . ) if so , we may dec tha ret the svr pre is app .
a dan in tri an imm ret is tha suc a pol may be too sen to out reg of the con - den int cho .
mor gen , we can con a thr m of con pre err tha exc the com con - den int bou as a tri for ret .
sum and fut wor
in thi pap we add the pro of how to gen acc tcp thr pre for arb pat in the int .
our app use a pow mac lea too - sup vec reg - whi pro an efc mec for gen a pre usi mul inp .
we inv mea of pat pro inc que del , pac los , and ava ban tha can be use alo wit pri thr mea - men as the fea set for our pre .
thr an ext se - rie of lab - bas exp we nd tha our svr pre mak hig acc for usi mea of que and los , and tha ava ban mea doe not imp pre - dic .
in hea tra con , the svr for are nea 123 tim mor acc tha pri hb pre .
we mak a se - rie of ext to the svr pre to mak it ope via .
fur lab exp sho tha the ext ena the pre to wor wel for a wid ran of le siz , to be rob to mea fro act pro too , and to ada to cha pat con .
we cre a too cal pat whi ena us to tes our svr pre in the int .
in ini tes in the ron tes , we sho tha pat gen hig acc thr - put pre .
pat als gen far les pro tra com - par to a hb pre con as sug in pri wor .
in fut wor , we int to con to ren pat by inv - tig how to bet tun the tra set , and pos exp wit oth mac lea too .
we are con to exp the tes run in the wid are so tha we can eva pat cap und a bro ran of pat con .
we wou lik to tha dav and for pro us acc to the ron tes , and ana biz for hel wit the wai lab tes .
we als tha the ano rev for the hel - ful sug .
thi wor was sup in par by nsf gra num cns - 123 , cns - 123 , cns - 123 , and ccr - 123
any opi , ndi , con , or rec - tio exp in thi mat are tho of the aut and do not nec ree the vie of the nsf .
