col has bee wid use for han seg .
how - eve , man app rel on pre ski col mod .
it is ver dif to pre a col mod in a mob app whe the lig con may cha dra - cal ove tim .
in thi pap , we pro a nov sta app to han seg bas on bay dec the .
the pro met req no pre ski col mod .
ins it gen a han col mod and a bac col mod for a giv ima , and use the mod to cla eac pix in the ima as eit a han pix or a bac pix .
mod are gen usi a gau mix mod wit the res em alg .
our met is cap of seg han of arb col in a com sce .
it per wel eve whe the is a sig ove bet han and bac col - ors , or whe the use wea glo .
we sho tha the bay dec met is sup to a com use met by com the upp bou per .
exp res dem the fea of the pro met .
dyn con of han and bac col mod - els usi gau mix mod and the res em alg .
the pro met is cap of seg han of arb col in a com sce .
ano con - but of thi pap is the stu of upp bou per for col - bas han seg .
the stu ind the lim for the col - bas app .
we dem tha the pro met is sup to a com use thr -
the res of the pap is org as fol .
sec 123 des a mot app whe han seg - tio app bas on pre col mod are cha - len .
sec 123 pre the new met and alg .
sec 123 inv the per of the new met , and com it to the thr met .
sec 123 ad - dre the lim of the pro met and pos
a mot app
han seg is a pre for man ges rec tas ( 123 ) .
a pop fea for han seg - tio is ski col .
man app rel on pre ski col mod , whi wor wel in con env .
in thi pap , we inv a han seg pro for a wea com app .
we sho tha it is ver dif to pre a col mod in thi cas bec the lig con may cha dra ove tim .
to sol the pro , we pro a nov sta app to han seg bas on bay dec the .
the new met sti rel on col inf , but req no pre ski col mod .
the key inn is the
rec tec adv hav mad wea com - put ava for man dif app .
how , how to efc int wit a wea com is sti an ope que .
a ges int is cer a goo sol to the pro .
fin can bee use as poi for men sel ( 123 ) .
in a wea env a hea - mou see - thr dis may jit due to inv hea mot .
in thi cas it may be har to poi a nge at a men ite , bec the ite is dis at a xed pos on the hea - mou dis and mov aro wit the
we pro a new men sel par for wea - abl com , nam the " nge men " .
it wor on a wea com wit a hea - mou see - thr dis - pla and a hea - mou vid cam .
unl tra
the are num pub on han seg .
two com met are bac sub and ski col seg .
obv bac sub is inf sin the is no con bac .
col seg ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) is mor sui in our cas .
nev , pre met oft use one sta ski col mod , whi is ina for us .
in the res of thi pap , we pre a new way of seg han wit col inf .
we for the han seg pro as fol : the han is kno to be in an ima .
the han col is unk in adv ( dif env may res in dif han col ) , but is ass to be lar con wit the ima .
in add , we are con wit ini han seg , not sub han tra .
thu we lim our to a sin ima .
und the con , we wan to seg the han fro the bac , i . e .
for eac pix in the ima , we wan to cla it as eit a han pix or a bac pix .
to fac the dis , we int our han ima dat set .
a use rec ima seq of his han wit a hea - mou cam whi per the var nge men act .
the act wer per at typ pla whe a wea com is use inc : ofc , hom , veh , par , and str etc . , wit var bac and lig con .
som seq wer tak whi the use was wea glo , whi is a rea sit for wor in the eld .
fro the seq , 123 ima wer sel ran and the han in the ima wer man seg .
eac ima is 123 123 , 123 bit col .
the 123 ima wer ran div int two hal , wit 123 ima as tra dat and the oth 123 ima as tes dat .
fig 123 sho ran sam of the tra
gui tha dis men ite at xed pos on the scr , our met ass men ite ont the use ve nge .
it wor as fol :
the use see thr the hea - mou scr .
the hea - mou cam als mon the sam sce .
sin the use han is not in the sce , no men is dis .
( fig 123 ) .
the men sys is act whe the use mov his han , wid ope , int the sce .
the sys det the han wit the cam , and dis ve men ite at app pos so tha the ap - pea on the nge thr the hea - mou dis .
the men ite oat .
whe the han mov , the mov acc so tha the sta on the nge .
thu the is no nee for the use to mov the han to a spe pla to mak a men sel .
( fig
by ben a nge as if it is a vir cli , the use can sel the men ite on tha nge ( fig 123 ) .
the men sys is de - act whe the use mov
his han out of the vie .
the adv of thi par inc :
ter , a use can ope the dev wit lit or no tra efc ope , the is no nee to mov a n - ger to a spe pla to mak a sel , whi cou be a har hea - han coo tas and no nee for spe
in ord to imp the nge men sys , we nee to rec han fro ima tak by the hea - mou cam .
han seg is an ess pre ste .
how it is a har pro for the fol rea :
the are no res on the bac .
the cam mov wit the use hea .
the lig con may cha dra .
thi inc cha sha and var lig col , e . g .
und a sod - vap lam .
in thi wor we use the hsv col spa ( 123 ) ins of the rgb col spa .
mor , we use onl hue and
sat and ign v ( bri ) in ord to min the inu of sha and une lig .
we plo hue - sat his for ana .
sin the ima are man seg , we are abl to plo the col his for the ove ima , the han por , and the bac por res , as sho in fig 123
two obs ari aft inv som ima :
the pea of han col is not xed at a cer pos on the h - s pla ( com fig 123 wit 123 ) .
thi mea we can bui a sta han col mod for ins , we wil bui a dif han col mod for dif ima .
the han col may par ove wit the bac - gro col , as sho in fig 123 .
thi mea som han pix and bac pix hav the sam col .
thu mis is ine in col seg .
how we wan to min
( a ) an exa ima , its han and bac por
( b ) ove , han and bac his of ( a )
( c ) ano exa ima
( d ) his of ( c )
giv the col c and coo x
, y of a pix , we wan
to cla it as a han pix if
bac g r oun
app the con ver of bay rul , we get
we ass c
is con of x , y giv han ,
bac g r oun
bac g r oun
123 , the ( 123 )
bac g r oun
( 123 ) is our bay dec cri , whi wil be use to cla the pix in an ima .
bac g r oun
we nee thr mod to com ( 123 ) .
the rst one , , is the han col mod of an ima .
the sec , is the bac col mod of the ima .
the two mod nee to be bui for eac ima dyn , as dis in sec 123 .
the thi , des the spa dis han pix , i . e .
how lik the pix is a han pix .
we can est it fro the tra dat set as fol :
is a han pix in ima i , 123 oth .
fig 123 is the p our tra dat set .
the hig reg cor to the pal .
sin the use ten to pla the han at the cen of the vie , thi dis is rea .
a nov col seg met
in thi sec , we rst int a bay dec the fra for seg .
the fra nee a han col mod and a bac col mod to wor .
we the pre an app to bui the mod dyn for any giv ima usi gau mix mod and the res em alg , whi is the key inn of thi
we nee to est the han col mod p
bac g r oun
and the bac col mod p giv ima .
sin han col may cha fro ima to ima , and the han col may par ove wit the bac col ( as in fig 123 ) , thi is not a tri tas .
one obs is tha han col is lar con wit an ima .
thi mea han pix ten to con
i s and s
i s , suc tha p
fig 123 is the gmm tra wit ran sta par - ete for the ima in fig 123 .
not how wel the gmm app the act ove col dis in fig 123 .
als not how wel w 123 ( fig 123 ) res the act han col dis fig 123 .
sin we ass the han col can be mod wit a gau dis , 123 can be use as the han col mod .
it is nat to thi n an imm que fol : can we gua tha n app the act han col dis wel eno for any ima ? if the ans is yes , the by the den
and for a sin pea in a han col his .
int it sug to mod the han col p wit a gau - sia dis .
thi lea to the fol met .
giv an ima , we can eas com its ove col by nor the col his of the
and com ( 123 ) wit ( 123 ) , we wou hav the fol par for to sol the pro :
it has the fol rel wit the ( yet unk ) han col mod and bac col mod :
bac g r oun
bac g r oun
is the per of han pix in the ima , or the rel han siz ( not to be con wit in the pre sec , whi is a pix lev
we can app p
mod ( gmm ) p k gau dis n
wit a gau mix ( 123 ) .
the gmm is a wei sum of
w her e
is det emp .
we fou k
123 is suf .
i s mea and cov mat res - tiv .
wit the exp max ( em ) alg ( 123 ) ( 123 ) , we can tra the gmm , tha is to nd a set of
i den n
unf , in mos cas the ans is no if we use the sta em alg .
in fac , the sta em alg onl gua the ove tti of the who dis , but has vir no con ove the ind com gau .
the is no gua tha any of the k gau com wil be a rea app to the act han col dis .
bet sta par heu wil not hel eit .
fig 123 ( a - d ) sho an exa ima and its his .
fig 123 ( f - j ) are the gau com - nen obt usi the sta em alg .
obv non of the gau com res the act han col dis ( fig 123 ) .
how , we wil sho tha wit cer mod 123 , the rst to the sta em alg , we can enf n gau com of a gmm , to be a goo app of the han col dis suc tha we can use ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
thi is the key inn of our met .
dur the max ste of the sta em al - gor , the mea , cov and wei of eac gau com can be adj fre .
how we can x som par to cer val , or lim the ran dur em tra .
we cal it the res em alg .
it wil sti con to a loc max in ter of lik ( 123 ) .
mor spe , in thi pap we wil x 123 = 123 and lim .
the mea and val of 123 , w wil be dis in nex sec .
by res the two par , we can enf n app the han col dis .
the res em
123 to be wit ran
, and w
let 123 = set oth par ran .
dur the e - ste :
col cou as in sta em alg .
dur the m - ste :
as in sta em ,
sim for the w
ite the e - ste and m - ste unt con .
fig 123 sho the eff of the res em alg .
fig 123 is the gmm obt wit the res em al - gor on the sam ima of fig 123 .
not the rst gau com ( fig 123 ) now app the ac - tua han col his ( fig 123 ) .
lea 123 unc .
adj onl 123 ; 123
adj s 123 ; 123
adj w
as in sta em as in sta em
con thr ran var c
123 is the est mea of the han col dis - it nee to be est for eac ima as fol -
whi tak val of pos col
is the col of pix
, and c
bac g r oun
bac g r oun
bac g r oun
ass the fol gen ran pro :
bac g r oun
tha is , pix s col is gen in suc a way : fir the ide of thi pix is cho to be han wit and bac wit pro - ity 123 ( cid : 123 ) dis ) .
sec , if it is han a col is ran pic for the pix acc to p , oth the col is pic acc to p
( see fig 123 for the p
bac g r oun
now con a set of pix in an ima wit han pro - is a xed val bet 123
den thi set as s the exp of the pre equ ove thi set is
p , whe p
by den e
bac g r oun
and for
av er ag e
the we get
av er ag e
bac g r oun
per ana
can be est fro the tra dat .
in par , if we can nd som p clo to 123 suc tha
bac g r oun
is lar eno , we can use the app
av er ag e
the res w
123 , whi can be , the rel han siz .
the are es -
int as p tim fro the tra dat .
the dis of p in the tra dat is plo in fig 123
we com the
mea and sta dev of thi dis .
sin we exp the han siz in a new ima to be com to tho in the tra dat , we let
we tes the pro met on the 123 tes ima .
we ach an ave fal pos ( bac mis - sie as han ) rat of 123 , fal neg rat of 123 , and tot err rat of 123 .
the dec tak abo 123 sec for eac ima on a pc .
fig 123 sho som seg res .
sin our met is a pur pix - wis sta cla , no lte is app .
the som seg han hav hol or bac dot .
fig 123 , 123 sho the use wea glo .
sin the glo hav con col , the are eas - ily rec .
fig 123 is an exa whe the han gau mis gra a nea bac col pea dur res em tra .
fig 123 sho an - oth cas whe our met fai .
thi is bec the han col in thi ima is not con : the ima was tak ins a car , the thu and par of the pal was ren blu und the win .
the a sin gau can no lon mod the han col , whi lea to the fai - ure .
non , giv the dif of the tes set , we con our met to be pro .
we are int in the upp bou per of the pro met .
tha is the per whe we hav per han and bac col mod .
sin the tes dat are als man seg , we are abl to bui a per han col mod for eac tes ima by nor its han col his :
the com alg is as fol .
est the wei res w
est the mea res 123 wit ( 123 ) run the res em alg in sec 123 gen the han col mod wit ( 123 ) gen the bac col mod wit ( 123 ) cla eac pix wit ( 123 )
and sim a per bac col mod .
the we use the per mod to cla pix in the sam ima .
the per is con the upp bou of our met , bec the mod obt by ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) are app to the per mod .
we com the bay met wit a sim ski col seg met tha is fre ( but oft im - pli ) use .
the sim met bui a han col mod
and cla a pix as a han pix if
for som thr t
, oth it cla it as a bac -
we are int in the upp bou per of thi met .
as in sec 123 we bui a per han col mod for eac ima , and cla the pix in the sam im - age wit the sim met .
we rep the exp wit dif thr t .
fig 123 sho the per cur wit dif t .
the low err rat is 123 wit t =12 .
fig 123 and 123 sho how fal neg and fal pos rat cha wit res to t in the met .
( the col dis map to one dim ) .
sin the two dis are int ove , a sma t wil gen les fal neg but mor fal pos , and
tab 123 sum the per of dif met - ods .
obv the bay dec met is bet tha the sim thr met .
we pro a new way of col seg for han rec in a wea env .
the met bui
sta han and bac col mod for eac ima usi gmm and the res em alg , and cla pix wit bay dec cri .
the per of the pro met is pro .
the suc of thi met rel on the ass tha han col in a giv ima is con , and hen can be mod by a gau dis .
ano imp pre is tha the nee to be a few pos whe han ten to occ wit hig pro , so tha the ave - age han col in a giv ima can be est rel .
the wea com app men in sec 123 sat the req .
man thi can be don for fur imp .
for exa , som con ima pro met suc as lte and reg gro wil den hel .
mor ove , cur eac pix is pro ind , whe it mig be ben to con int bet pix .
in add , we onl con col inf .
as the upp bou per rev , the is a lim on how
wel we can do wit col .
add dif inf , suc as sha , wou be hel .
we are inv som of the , and are app the pro met to cre a ges bas wea com int .
raj , s .
mck , s .
tra and seg - men peo in var lig con usi col .
123 int con .
on aut fac and ges rec , pp 123 - 123 , 123
the aut wou lik to tha lar was , ron ros , hua yu , pan yue , ke yan , iai mat , wil kun and all mem in the int sys lab for the ins sug and hel .
thi res is par sup by the def adv res pro age und con num daa - 123 - c - 123
xia zhu res is sup in par by the nat sci fun und gra sbr - 123
