lor has een ely sed for and ion .
how - ver , any hes ely on ned kin lor els .
it is ery ult to ene a lor del in a ile ion ere the ght ion may nge ati - lly ver ime .
in his per , we ose a vel cal ach to and ion sed on yes ion ory .
the sed hod res no ned kin lor del .
ead it tes a and lor del and a und lor del for a ven age , and ses ese els to ify ach xel in the age as her a and xel or a und xel .
els are ted ing a ian ure del ith the ted em thm .
our hod is ble of ing nds of ary lor in a lex ene .
it rms ell ven hen ere is a ant lap een and and und col - ors , or hen the ser ars ves .
we how hat the yes ion hod is ior to a nly sed hod by ing eir per und nce .
tal lts ate the ity of the sed hod .
mic ion of and and und lor mod - els ing ian ure els and the ted em thm .
the sed hod is ble of ing nds of ary lor in a lex ene .
her tri - ion of his per is the udy of per und nce for lor - sed and ion .
the udy tes the mit for the lor - sed hes .
we ate hat the sed hod is ior to a nly sed esh -
the est of the per is zed as ows .
ion 123 bes a ing ion ere and nta - ion hes sed on ned lor els are hal - ged .
ion 123 nts the new hod and hms .
ion 123 tes the nce of the new hod , and res it to the old hod .
ion 123 ad - ses the ons of the sed hod and ble
a ing ion
and ion is a ite for any ure ion sks ( 123 ) .
a lar ure for and nta - ion is kin lor .
any hes ely on ned kin lor els , ich ork ell in ned nts .
in his per , we ate a and ion lem for a ble ter ion .
we how hat it is ery ult to ene a lor del in his ase use the ght ion may nge lly ver ime .
to lve the lem , we ose a vel cal ach to and ion sed on yes ion ory .
the new hod ill ies on lor ion , but res no ned kin lor del .
the key ion is the
ent cal ces ave ade ble com - ers ble for any ent ons .
ver , how to tly act ith a ble ter is ill an pen ion .
a ure ace is nly a ood ion to the lem .
ger can een sed as ers for enu ion ( 123 ) .
in a ble ent a ead - ted see - ugh lay may ter due to ily ead ion .
in his ase it may be ard to int a ger at a enu tem , use the tem is yed at a xed ion on the ead - ted lay and ves und ith the
we ose a new enu ion igm for ear - ble ers , ely the " ger enu " .
it rks on a ble ter ith a ead - ted see - ugh dis - lay and a ead - ted deo era .
ike nal
ere are ous ons on and ion .
two mon ods are und ion and kin lor ion .
sly und ion is ble nce ere is no ant und .
lor ion ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) is ore ble in our ase .
ess , ous ods ten use one tic kin lor del , ich is ate for us .
in the est of his per , we ent a new way of ing nds ith lor ion .
we ate the and ion lem as ows : the and is own to be in an age .
the and lor is own in nce ( ent nts may ult in ent and ors ) , but is med to be ely ent hin the age .
in ion , we are ned ith ial and ion , not ent and ing .
hus we mit ves to a gle age .
der ese ons , we ant to ent the and rom the und , i . e .
for ach xel in the age , we ant to ify it as her a and xel or a und xel .
to ate the ion , we uce our and age ata set .
a ser ded age ces of his and ith a ead - ted era ile ing the ous ger enu ons .
the ons ere med at cal ces ere a ble ter is sed ing : fce , ome , les , rks , and ets etc . , ith ous nds and ght ons .
ome ces ere ken ile the ser was ing ves , ich is a ble ion for ing in the eld .
rom the ces , 123 ges ere ted mly and the nds in ese ges ere lly ted .
ach age is 123 123 , 123 bit lor .
the 123 ges ere mly ded nto two ves , ith 123 ges as ing ata and the her 123 ges as est ata .
ure 123 ows dom les of the ing
uis hat lay enu ems at xed ons on the een , our hod tes enu ems nto the ers ve ers .
it rks as ows :
the ser ees ugh the ead - ted een .
the ead - unt era lso ors the ame ene .
nce the ers and is not in the ene , no enu is yed .
( ure 23a ) .
the enu tem is ted hen the ser ves his and , ely ned , nto the ene .
the tem cts the and ith the era , and ays ve enu ems at ate ons so hat hey ap - ear on the ips ugh the ead - unt lay .
the enu ems oat .
hen the and ves , hey ove gly so hat hey tay on the ips .
hus ere is no eed for the ser to ove the and to a cic ace to ake a enu ion .
( ure
by ing a ger as if it is a ual ick , the ser can ect the enu tem on hat tip ( ure 23d ) .
the enu tem is de - ted hen the ser ves
his and out of the iew .
the ges of his igm ude :
ion , a ser can ate the ice ith tle or no ng; ent ion , ere is no eed to ove a n - ger to a cic ace to ake a ion , ich uld be a ard ead - and ion sk; and no eed for ial
in der to ent the ger enu tem , we eed to ize nds rom ges ken by the ead - ted era .
and ion is an ial ing tep .
ver it is a ard lem for the ing ons :
ere are no ons on the und .
the era ves ith the ers ead .
the ght ons may nge lly .
his des ing dow and ing ght ors , e . g .
der a ium - por amp .
in his ork we use the hsv lor ace ( 123 ) ead of the rgb lor ace .
ver , we use nly hue and
ion and ore v ( ess ) in der to ize the nce of dow and ven ing .
we lot hue - ion ams for sis .
nce the ges are lly ted , we are ble to lot the lor ams for the all age , the and ion , and the und ion ely , as own in ure 123
two ons ise ter ing ome ges :
the eak of and lor is not xed at a ain ion on the h - s ane ( are ure 23b ith 23d ) .
his ans we not ild a tic and lor del for ead , we ill ild a ent and lor del for ent age .
the and lor may lly lap ith the ack - und lor , as own in ure 23d .
his ans ome and els and und els ave the ame lor .
hus ion is ble in lor ion .
ver we ant to ize
( a ) an ple age , its and and und ion
( b ) all , and and und ams of ( a )
( c ) her ple age
( d ) ams of ( c )
ven the lor c and tes x
, y of a xel , we ant
to ify it as a and xel if
ack g r und
ing the nal ion of yes ule , we get
we ume c
is ent of x , y ven and ,
ack g r und
ack g r und
123 , ore ( 123 )
ack g r und
( 123 ) is our yes ion ion , ich ill be sed to ify the els in an age .
ack g r und
we eed ree els to ute ( 123 ) .
the rst one , , is the and lor del of an age .
the ond , is the und lor del of the age .
ese two els eed to be ilt for ach age lly , as sed in ion 123 .
the ird , bes the ial nof and els , i . e .
how ely the xel is a and xel .
we can ate it rom the ing ata set as ows :
is a and xel in age i , 123 ise .
ure 123 is the p our ing ata set .
the est ion nds to the alm .
nce the ser nds to ace the and at the ter of the iew , his ion is ble .
a vel lor ion hod
in his ion , we rst uce a yes ion ory ork for ion .
the ork eds a and lor del and a und lor del to ork .
we hen ent an ach to ild the els lly for any ven age ing ian ure els and the ted em thm , ich is the key ion of his
we eed to ate the and lor del p
ack g r und
and the und lor del p ven age .
nce and lor may nge rom age to age , and the and lor may tly lap ith the und lor ( as in ure 123 ) , his is not a ial ask .
one ion is hat and lor is ely ent hin an age .
his ans and els end to ate
i s and s
i s , uch hat p
ure 123 is the gmm ned ith dom ing ram - ers for the age in ure 23a .
ote how ell the gmm tes the ual all lor ion in ure 23b .
lso ote how ell w 123 ( ure 23b ) les the ual and lor nin ure 23b .
nce we ume the and lor can be led ith a ian ion , 123 can be sed as the and lor del .
it is ral to ink n an ate ion ows : can we tee hat n tes the ual and lor ion ell ugh for any age ? if the wer is yes , hen by the ion
and orm a gle eak in a and lor ram .
ely it sts to del the and lor p ith a aus - ian ion .
his ads to the ing hod .
ven an age , we can ily ute its all lor by ing the lor ram of the
and ing ( 123 ) ith ( 123 ) , we uld ave the ing ric rms to lve the lem :
it has the ing hip ith the ( yet own ) and lor del and und lor del :
ack g r und
ack g r und
is the age of and els in the age , or the ive and ize ( not to be sed ith in the ous ion , ich is a xel vel
we can ate p
del ( gmm ) p k ian ons n
ith a ian ure ( 123 ) .
the gmm is a ted sum of
w her e
is ned lly .
we und k
123 is ent .
i s ean and nce rix pec - ely .
ith the ion ion ( em ) thm ( 123 ) ( 123 ) , we can ain the gmm , hat is to nd a set of
i ote n
ely , in ost ses the wer is no if we use the ard em thm .
in act , the ard em thm nly ees the all ing of the ole ion , but has lly no rol ver the ual ent ans .
ere is no tee hat any of the k ian nts ill be a ble ion to the ual and lor ion .
ter ing ter ics ill not elp her .
res 123 ( a - d ) how an ple age and its ams .
res 123 ( f - j ) are the ian mpo - nts ned ing the ard em thm .
sly one of the ian nts les the ual and lor ion ( ure 23c ) .
ver , we ill how hat ith ain ons 123 , the rst to the ard em thm , we can rce n ian ent of a gmm , to be a ood ion of the and lor ion uch hat we can use ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
his is the key ion of our hod .
ing the ion tep of the ard em al - thm , the ean , nce and ght of ach ian ent can be ted ely .
ver we can x ome ers to ain ues , or mit eir ges ing em ing .
we all it the ted em thm .
it ill ill rge to a cal mum in rms of ood ( 123 ) .
ore lly , in his per we ill x 123 = 123 and mit .
the ing and lue of 123 , w ill be sed in ext ion .
by ing ese two ers , we can rce n ate the and lor ion .
the ted em
123 to be hin nge
, and w
let 123 = set her ers mly .
ing the e - tep :
ect nts as in ard em thm .
ing the m - tep :
as in ard em ,
rly for the w
ing the e - tep and m - tep til rge .
ure 123 ows the ect of the ted em thm .
ure 23a is the gmm ned ith the ted em al - thm on the ame age of ure 23a .
ote the rst ian ent ( ure 23b ) now tes the ac - ual and lor ram ( ure 23c ) .
ave 123 ged .
ust nly 123 ; 123
ust s 123 ; 123
ust w
as in ard em as in ard em
der ree dom les c
123 is the ted ean of the and lor ibu - it eds to be ted for ach age as fol -
ich ake lue of ble ors
is the lor of xel
, and c
ack g r und
ack g r und
ack g r und
ume the ing ive dom ess :
ack g r und
hat is , xel s lor is ted in uch a way : tly the ity of his xel is sen to be and ith and und ith bil - ity 123 ( cid : 123 ) ion ) .
dly , if it is and a lor is mly ked for the xel ing to p , ise the lor is ked ing to p
( see ure 123 for the p
ack g r und
now der a set of els in an age ith and oba - is a xed lue een 123
ote his set as s the ion of the ous ion ver his set is
p , ere p
by ion e
ack g r und
and for
av er ag e
ore we get
av er ag e
ack g r und
nce sis
can be ted rom the ing ata .
in lar , if we can nd ome p ose to 123 uch hat
ack g r und
is rge ugh , we can use the ion
av er ag e
the ons w
123 , ich can be , the ive and ize .
hey are es -
ted as p ted rom the ing ata .
the ion of p in the ing ata is ted in ure 123
we ute the
ean and ard ion of his ion .
nce we ect the and ize in a new age to be ble to ose in the ing ata , we let
we ted the sed hod on the 123 est ges .
we ved an age lse ive ( und las - ied as and ) ate of 23% , lse ive ate of 23% , and tal ror ate of 23% .
the ing kes out 123 ond for ach age on a pc .
ure 123 ows ome ion lts .
nce our hod is a ure xel - ise cal ier , no ing is ied .
ore ome ted nds ave les or und ots .
ure 23g , 23h how the ser ing ves .
nce the ves ave ent lor , hey are eas - ily zed .
ure 23k is an ple ere the and ian nly abs a rby und lor eak ing ted em ing .
ure 23l ows an - her ase ere our hod ils .
his is use the and lor in his age is not ent : the age was ken ide a car , the umb and art of the alm was red ish der the eld .
ore a gle ian can no ger del the and lor , ich ads to the ail - ure .
ess , ven the lty of the est set , we der our hod to be ing .
we are ted in the per und nce of the sed hod .
hat is the nce hen we ave ect and and und lor els .
nce the est ata are lso lly ted , we are ble to ild a ect and lor del for ach est age by ing its and lor ram :
the ete thm is as ows .
ate the ght ons w
ate the ean ion 123 ith ( 123 ) run the ted em thm in ion 123 ate the and lor del ith ( 123 ) ate the und lor del ith ( 123 ) ify ach xel ith ( 123 )
and rly a ect und lor del .
hen we use ese ect els to ify els in the ame age .
the nce is red the per und of our hod , use the els ned by ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) are ons to ese ect els .
we are the ian hod ith a ple kin lor ion hod hat is tly ( but ten im - tly ) sed .
the ple hod lds a and lor del
and ies a xel as a and xel if
for ome old t
, ise it ies it as a ack -
we are ted in the per und nce of his hod .
as in ion 123 we ild a ect and lor del for ach age , and ify the els in the ame im - age ith the ple hod .
we eat the ent ith ent lds t .
ure 23a ows the nce rve ith ent t .
the est ror ate is 23% ith t 123 .
res 23b and 23c how how lse ive and lse ive tes nge ith ect to t in the hod .
( the lor are ped to one ion ) .
nce the two ons are lly ing , a all t ill ate ess lse ive but ore lse ive , and
ble 123 zes the ces of ent eth - ods .
sly the yes ion hod is ter han the ple old hod .
we sed a new way of lor ion for and ion in a ble ent .
the hod lds
cal and and und lor els for ach age ing gmm and the ted em thm , and ies els ith yes ion ion .
the nce of the sed hod is ing .
the ess of his hod ies on the ion hat and lor in a ven age is ent , and nce can be led by a ian ion .
her ant ite is hat ere eed to be a few ons ere and nds to cur ith igh ity , so hat the ver - age and lor in a ven age can be ted bly .
the ble ter ion ned in ion 123 ses ese nts .
any ngs can be one for her ent .
for ple , ome nal age ing ods uch as ing and ion ing ill ely elp .
ore ver , tly ach xel is sed lly , eas it ght be ial to der ons een els .
in ion , we nly red lor ion .
as the per und nce als , ere is a mit on how
ell we can do ith lor .
ing ent ion , uch as ape , uld be ful .
we are ing ome of hem , and are ing the sed hod to ate a ure sed ble ter ace .
aja , s .
nna , s .
ing and seg - ing ple in ing ing ons ing our .
3rd ntl onf .
on tic ace and ure ion , pp 123 - 123 , 123
the ors uld ike to ank rry man , oni eld , hua yu , pan yue , ke ang , ain ews , iam unz and all ers in the ive ems abs for eir ing ons and elp .
his rch is lly ted by the nse ced rch cts ncy der act ber 123 - 123 - c - 123
jin hus rch is ted in art by the nal nce ion der ant sbr - 123
