act an ied ach to ing ion sts hat ing ers ust arn to map rds and ses nto eir red ces , but his is ade ult by the ity of ing ion on ing .
ing ren nip - ate oys to ond to hat hey are ing mes his lem , but ces its own lem for the oom , ely ing to ide a oom ull of ren ith ive .
in his cle , we ate hat ing rst - and ond - ade ren ate ges of oys on a ter een ets eir ion as uch as cal ion of the oys .
in ion , ion on one day tes ing in the ame ain one eek ter .
ese ngs age the use of ion of ext - ant ges as an nal ogy for ing rly ing ion .
the ngs lso set nts on cal nts of ent ile ing .
rds ing ion ent nal ogy ing ers ter ded ion
hat oes it ean to end a ten ext ? one wer , sed on an ied ach to ion , is hat ful ion res ( a ) ing rds and ses to ent or red ces and ( b ) ing tax to ide the ate
erg ( & ) ent of ogy , ona ate ity , mpe , az 123 - 123 , usa
erg ent of ogy , ity of sin , son , wi , usa a .
erg x .
zhu ent of ter ces , ity of sin , son , wi , usa
erg et al .
ion of ose ces .
ese ses are rly ult for the ing der use ing to ead out oud ces ion to ing phy nto ogy .
ith ion sed on ing , ere is ant ion to ion hat is , ing the rds nto ces .
ved by ing is an ion ned to ess his lem by ing the ate ces ile ing and ing ren how to ate the ten rds to ose ces .
ous ork has ted the ess of his ion , but nly hen ren are ven the ity to tly act ith eir nts to uce the ces .
ere we ask her a ter can ide lly ive nce for the ing
two hes to ing ion
an ial ory of ing ion was ped by sch ( 123 ) .
in hat ory , ion res the ion and ion of ons .
ach ion nds to a ple dea , and it sts of act , lic sen - ion of pts ked by act ons uch as ive , ect , and ent .
his ory has red a ous unt of rch , ost of ich rts the ory at ast in oad ine .
ess , his ach lls rey to the bol ing lem , ely , how are the act ols ven ing ?
the act ols in chs ory are lar to the ata in a ter ory ion , hat is , hey are ily ted to the ols ent .
for the ter bol , ing is ded by a man ver ing the bol .
but , who or hat ets the act ols of the ind ? one ity ( see sch 23; uer and ais 123 ) is hat the ity of ons ong act ols is ent to ort ing .
ver , cal ses ( nad 23; rle 123 ) and cal ons ( e . g . , erg and hta 123 , in ess ) est hat his ill not ork .
nad ( 123 ) ses the bol rry - go - und ent to ate why con - ons gst act ols not ead to ing .
ine hat you are ing in a ign try , and hat you do not eak the cal age .
at our sal you ave a ary ten ely in the ign age out ish ons .
as you tep off the ane , you see a ign , and you ish to and its ing .
you ook up in the ary the rst ord in the ign .
use the ion is in the ign age , it oes not ake any nse to you , hus you ook up the rst ord in the ion , but it too oes not elp , and so you ook up the rst ord in hat ion .
rom his ple , it is ear hat no any how any rds ( act ols ) you ook up , hat is no ter how any ons hat you ace gst the ols , you ill be ble to ine the ing of the ign ely rom ons gst the ols .
nad ( and ers ) est hat one ust tep off the bol rry - go - und by ing , or ing , the ols to ing ( e . g . , ily ces ) ide of the bol
erg and hta ( 123 , 23b ) ted his sue lly .
nts in eir nts zed our ent pes of ons ( e . g . , can has as art ) een cts and res .
the cts , res , and eir ies of ion ded tly to a ell - own tic ain , ely two - led les und on pus .
eas the mes of the ons ere ven to the nts , the ame of the ain , the mes of the cts , and the mes of the res ere not led to the nts .
the ion of jor est was her the nts
ing rly ing ion ing ied cai
uld uce the ain and cts rom the zed ons one .
the wer was hat hey uld not .
in her ent , nts ere ven the ame of the ain , mes of the ons , mes of ree of six cts ( oad ike , ain ike , tor - cle ) , and mes of 123 of the 123 res .
nts zed ons ong oth the med and med cts and res .
the ion of est was ain her nts uld uce the ing of the med cts and res .
hey uld not .
nce , oth cal sis ( nad 23; rle 123 ) and ata ate hat ing not ise ely rom ons gst act res .
an ive ach can be ped rom the ive of ied ion : igh - vel ive ses ( e . g . , age , ics ) are ded in ily ech - sms of ion , ion , and ect ( lou 123 , 23; min and ith 123 ) .
the cal sis ( erg and son 23; erg and hak 123 ) is one uch ory .
it ses hat age ion res hat the act ols of age ( i . e . , rds and tax ) be ped nto ied ces or ons of ose ces .
ese ces may be ded by ing the ent , as hen ing at a cup ile one is ing out hat cup .
ely , ese ces may be ded by ual ols ( lou 123 ) in ory .
a ual bol is an log ion ing of the ial re - ion of the ame ral ems ive hen the ect was ded .
a ous unt of ata rom nce ( e . g . , erg et al .
23; ler 123 ) and cal rch ( e . g . , erg and hak 23; aan and lor 123 ) has ted the nce of uch ded ons for age ion .
the ved by ing ion
on his ied unt of age ion , why is ing so uch ore ult to ire han an ral age ? to put it tly , how is it hat a ild is ble to ode ext and say it out oud , but ill not and ( e . g . , ill et al .
123 ) ? one ity is hat ing ral age ing , the ing een bol ( ord ) and ect is ace .
for ple , a her ays , ere is our cup , and nds the cup to the ant , or a her ays , ave bye - bye , ile ing the ion .
in ast , hen ing to ead , a ild ust cus on the ter - und ces and on ing ose nds to uce the per ion of the ord .
it is ely hat the rds ent is ere in the ent , and ven hen a ext may be ied by res , nce to the res is ely to be tic .
( ven ugh ive ers may ell int to res ile the her ads to the ass , the ant ior is for the ild to fer rds to ded ces , uch as res , ile the ild is ing . ) in his ase , ing mes a ess ise in ord ing , uch ike ing to ead a ext in a age one oes not and .
ill et al .
( 123 ) ate hat a non - ble ion of nts lly ode but ith tle ion .
hat is , ing oud ces sed of rds in the lds ary oes not tee ion .
the ved by ing ion sts of two pes of ies ned to ach ren how to map rds and ses nto ent and red ces .
ing the cal ion ( pm ) age , ren ead ple xts out ies hin a lar rio ( e . g . , a arm rio ) .
in ont of the ild is a set of oys uch as a toy arn , tor , als , etc .
cal ces are ued ith a ure of a een afc ght .
ter the ild ads a cal nce ( e . g . , the mer ngs hay to the rse ) , the ild cts out the nce ing the oys , hus ing the ild to ect rds to
erg et al .
lar cts and tic ons ( e . g . , who did hat to hom ) to ons .
on a ion est ing ing , ren who age in pm ten orm one to two ard ons ter han ren who ead the ame ext , but ead of ing the oys , ese ren re - ead cal ces ( erg et al .
123 , 23; ley et al .
123 ) .
ing pm , ren are ght to ine ing ( im ) the oys .
hat is , pon ing the een ght , hey are ght to ine how hey uld act ith the oys to act out the nce .
im ces ins hat are lar in ize to ose ced by pm ( erg et al .
23; erg 123 ) .
why oes im ork so ell ? the ial pm ure eys to the ild hat ing is all out , ely , ing eir ces to uct tal els hat ond to the ext .
the im ure ows ren to ake age of his dge , as ell as tly ing the ild to use his or her ell - ced ill of ing ard rds to nce sed ing ral
ved by ing on ers
eas the ved by ing ion uld be lly ial , it is ted by the ity of ing ies hat tch oys or ing oys hat tch ies .
a ond ion for oom use is the ity of ing any ets of oys , hat is , a set of oys for ach ual or oup of nts .
ven hat any oms are ing com - zed and hat any ols ave ter ies , oth of ese ons ght be ome by ing a ild , ile ing , ate ter ges ing a use .
but , ill his ort of ter ion be as ful as pm ? ere are ons to wer in the ive and the ive .
on the ive ide , ing ter ges may not be as ing as ing oys .
lso , the ory nce ted ith the oys ( e . g . , oth ual and tic ion ) may be ant for ing the ort of ual ols ded for im to be ful .
on the ive ide , to the ent hat ess of the ion nds on ( a ) ing rds to any ort of ful ion and ( b ) ing ren to map the tic ons to ons , hen ing ges ing a ter may be as ful as pm .
in the rch ted ext , we ted ree ons .
in all of the ons , ren ead xts ted on a ter tor and ter ing irs of xts hey ook a ort ion est .
in the pm ion , ter ing cal ces , ren ned way rom the tor to ate cal oys .
in the ter ate ( cm ) ion , ren ted ges on the tor ing the use ( see fig .
lly , in the re - ead ion , ren re - ead cal ces .
in the re - ead ion , a non - ble ion of the ges was ble on the een as in a lds ure ook .
on the rst day of the ent , ren ead our xts .
on the ond day of the ent , 123 eek ter , ren ere ted to age in im ( or ent re - ing in the re - ead ion ) .
hen ren ead our ore xts for ich ere was no ion of ges on the een .
the rst two of ese xts ere ies ing nts in the ame , iar rio sed on the rst day ( e . g . , arm rio ) .
the ond two ies ame rom an iar rio ( e . g . , use rio ) .
his ign wed us to wer ral ied and cal ons .
ill cm be as ive as pm ? ill cm be ore ive han re - ead ? ill cm ead to ive use of im on day 123 ? ill ets of im end to iar ios ? on the cal ide , do ive ied ons ire ity ith eal cts ?
ing rly ing ion ing ied cai
123 a een hot ore ing , ben oks the art to the or; b een hot way ugh ing for ben oks the art to the or; c een hot ter lly ing for ben oks the art to the tor
erg et al .
a tal of 123 ren in the rst - and ond - des ere led rom two ces .
one rce was a rch try in ich nts of ren ing the son tan ool ict uld ate eir ess to ate in rch .
the ond was an ter ool ram in a urb of son , wi .
ren rom the try ted in a ory oom and ren rom the ter ool ram ted at eir ool .
tal ent was ned for all ren .
ren ere mly ned to ate in the pm ( n = 123 ) , cm ( n = 123 ) , or re - ead ( n = 123 ) ons .
dom ent was one ely for the two ces of nts to ure no tic ing of rce and ion .
for ach of two ios , we ote six , ght - nce ies .
ach ory ded ve cal ces .
in ion , for ach ory we ote a 123 - ion yes / no ion est .
ive of the ons ere ted at the cal ces ( e . g . , did ben ive the tor to the ins ) and ve ere ted at ion ken rom her rts of the ory as ell as ble ral ons ( e . g . , did ben ive to the arn ter he put the ins in the art ) and ble ial ons ( e . g . , at the end of the ory was the tor at the arn ) .
ren ere mly ned to art ith one rio ( the iar rio ) or the her .
the ren ead our ies rom the iar rio on the rst day , the ing two ies rom hat rio on the ond day ( 123 eek ter ) , and hen two ies rom the her , iar , rio .
the use of the ies was ced as ows .
rst , ies ere red .
hen , a air of ies red ely lly ten as the rst air on day 123 , the ond air on day 123 , and the rst air on day 123
ach air rom the ond rio red ely lly ten as the ond air on
in ion , ach rio had an ion hat was sed in all of the ons .
for the ion , a tic ure of the ory cts was ted , and the ter ted to and med all of the cts .
ere was lso a ve - nce ice ext for ach rio .
his ext was sed on the rst day to ive ren ice ing rom the tor , ing , and re - ing .
lly , a ree - nce ice ext was ted for ach rio and sed on the ond day to uce ine ion and ent re - ing .
the ons for ned ion ere to ine ing ith the ges ( e . g . , ine ing on an age , ing it ith the use , etc . ) .
for the rst nce in the ice ext , the ter bed hat was to be ned .
for the ing ces of the ice ext nly , the ild bed hat he or she ned .
if the ild did not ibe ing ith the ges , the ild was ted .
ion of the ter are
the nts ere ted ing a ipt - red web ion hat uns in a ard web ser ( e . g . , lla fox ) .
no nal are eds to be ded or led on a cal ter .
the web age ays the ces in a box
ing rly ing ion ing ied cai
on the eft ide of the een , ith a afc ght con ext to the cal ces .
the ght ide of the een ays a tic und age for ach rio ( e . g . , a arn in the arm rio ) , and in the und , all ges ent the key nts and cts in the rio .
for ese nts , the ges are igh ity phs of the ame oys sed in our pm ies .
hen the ild hes a cal nce , he or she ust ick on the age of the ect ect to ate ( his is kin to ing up the ect toy in a pm udy ) .
ing ere lse oes ing .
for ple , ven the nce ben oks the art to the tor , the ild ust ick on ben , the mer .
pon ing so , the age mes uck to the use sor , and the ild may ase the use ton .
( ung ter ers may not ave red the ept of ing yet . ) ith an age ked nto the use sor , the ild ust ove the use to ick on the ext ant ect or ion ( in his ase , the art ) .
now , ing the use ill ove the mer and the art her .
a hot one is ned und the ant ion , ing ome ity in ere the ext ick ust cur .
ter the ast ary ick for the nce , the ted ges ome ked rom the use and ain in eir new ons , ugh ere may be a ght ent in the age to ict ant ils ( e . g . , the art pro - ely hed to the tor ) .
in ort , the are is ned to low nly ect ons , ile ing ome oom for ror in use ing and ing ior .
hen all the red ons for a nce are ted , a all tor ars in the ner of the een as a ign to the ter hat the ild may art ing the ext nce .
on the rst day , ren ere ced to the iar rio .
ing hat , hey ere ted as to hat a een ght ate the oys for the ren in the pm ion , ate the ter ges the for ren in the cm ion , and re - ead for ren in the re - ead ion .
his ion was wed by pre - ion of the ve - nce ice ext .
ren hen ead two ies rom the iar rio .
the ion est for ose two ies was ven ter ing the ond ory so hat ere was a ion val of ral tes een ngs a ory and ing the est .
the ion ons ere ead oud by the her and the ild ded oud .
her the xts nor the res ere ble to the ren ing the ing .
ren hen ead two ore ies rom the iar rio and hey ere ted on ose two .
at the end of the rst day , the ren ted a all
on the ond day ( 123 eek ter ) , ren ere ted in im or ent re - ing ing the ree - nce ice ext .
his ice was wed by ren ing two xts rom the iar rio .
the rst of ese was ted ong ith a tic ure of the rio , and the ond was ead out any ure .
the ren ere hen ted on ses two xts .
ren hen ved the ion to the ond , iar , rio ong ith a tic ure .
ren hen ead two xts rom the iar rio ing her im ( for ren in the pm and cm ons ) or ent re - ing .
the rst of ese xts was ted ong ith a tic ure and the ond had no ure .
use the ion of res on the ond day had no lly sig - ant cts , it ill not be sed her .
lly , ren ere ted on the ast two xts , ven a ond toy , and sed .
erg et al .
the ans ( and ard ons ) of ost est are ted in ble 123
rom hat ble , it ars hat ren in the cm oup med ren in the her two ups oth on day 123 and on day 123 for the iar rio , but not for the iar rio .
cal ons ted ing a ity of a ype 123 ror of 123 lly med ese ons .
ese cal ses ere ted ing an ova on the ons ect ing ild as the nit of sis .
ese ons ere ned by ing oss all ons ( 123 per ext ) for xts in a ven ion .
for ple , the ion ect for the rst day ere ned rom the 123 ons ked hat day .
in the rst sis , the ata rom the iar and iar xts on day 123 ere ned .
ere was an ect of day , in hat ren did ter on day 123 han day 123 , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 .
ere are ral ely , but ely ing , ons for his ing .
rst , day 123 ted of ies rom one rio , eas day 123 ted of ies rom two ios , one of ich was ely iar .
ond , on day 123 , ren sed a ing egy ( pm , cm , or re - ead oud ) hat is ely to be ore ive han the day 123 egy ( im or re - ead tly ) .
ird , all of the day 123 ies ere ied by ble or tic res , but nly alf the day 123 ies ere
ore ing is the ain ect of ion , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 .
ren in the cm ion med ose in the re - ead ion ( p = 123 ) .
the ion of ion and day was not ant ( p = 123 ) , ich ies hat the cm ion med the re - ead ion oth on day 123 hen ren ted ges or re - ead oud , and on day 123 hen ren ned the ion of ges or re - ead
we med a lar sis ing the day 123 ata and the day 123 ata rom the iar rio nly .
in his sis , ere was a ant ect of day , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , and ion , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 .
the ren in the cm ion per - med the ren in the re - ead ion ( p = 123 ) and the pm ion ( p = 123 ) .
ain , ere was tle nce for an ion een day and ion , f \ 123
lly , we zed the ata rom day 123 and the ata rom the iar rio on day 123
ere ere no ant cts in his sis .
it uld be ted hat the ata ted in ble 123 are the ons ect of all est ons , hat is , ose ons ing the ion ces and ose awn rom her rts of the xts .
hen the ons ing the ion ces are red one , the ern of ans and ern of cal nce are the ame as ted ove .
ver , use nce was so igh ( e . g . , on day 123 , the ons ect ere 123 , 123 , and 123 , and on day 123 , iar rio the ons ere 123 , 123 ,
ble 123 ans ( and ard ons ) on the ion est
ion on day 123
day 123 iar
day 123 iar
cal ate ( pm )
ter ate ( cm )
ect ize ( d ) for cm red to re - ead
ote : ns not lly ant
ing rly ing ion ing ied cai
and 123 , for the pm , cm , and re - ead ons , lly ) , ose ata may ect in art ing cts .
tly , we ded to cus on ses of all of the ons .
it is of est hat the ive cts of ved by ing end ond the cic ces for ich ren ged in pm or im , ugh the ect is ted : pm and im elp the ild to ild a tal del of the ers and eir ons , and his tal del ill be ful in ing all rts of the ory .
the ing hat the ets of ved by ing end to her rts of the ext lso elp to ter the aim hat the ion ces not ust ory but lso ion of the ext .
hat is , ing ved by ing lps the ren to wer nce ons , not ust ter ber rts of xts ing to ted ces .
his ion ill be zed und the ons ted at the end of the ory ion , ely , ill cm be as ive as pm ? ill cm be ore ive han re - ead ? ill cm ead to ive use of im on day 123 ? ill ets of im end to iar ios ? on the cal ide , do ive ied ons ire ity ith eal cts ? lly , we ill ess the nal ons of his rch , and its ion to ork on ing .
is cm as ive as pm ?
one ise in the lts was hat ren in the cm ion med at ast as ell , or ven ter , han ren in the pm ion ( p = 123 ing all of the ata , and p = 123 ing ata rom day 123 and the iar rio rom day 123 ) .
his ect may ect ion in the pm ion sed by ing to urn way rom the ter een in der to ate the oys .
ver , it ght lso be a eal ect , and not ply ion .
for ple , ing ges on the een may elp cus the ild on how to ize the tic ons hen the eed to asp and ate the cts is ted .
or , ing ges on the een may age lay so hat the ild ses ore on the ext . 123 his ast son is ent of rch on ma - ves in ics xts .
ely , to the ent hat the ild ays ith the ive in ast to ing it as a bol for a cal dea , the ive res ith nce ( e . g . , eil et al .
123 ) .
is cm ore ive han re - ead ? ill cm ead to ive use of im on day 123 ?
ren in the cm ion med ose in the re - ead ion , and the ect zes ere rge ugh to be lly ant .
on day 123 , the ect ize ( ens d ) of cm red to re - ead was 123 , ere 123 is red a rge ect .
on day 123 ( im red to re - ead ) , for the iar rio , d = 123 ( a ium ize ect ) .
ere are ral ons why 123 may be an ate .
rst , ere ere nly two xts rom the iar rio on day 123 , so hat ere was ore ror in the ent
123 ral ren did ear to lay ith the ges in the cm ion .
for ple , a ild ght ate ith the use a ken ing , or hum a tty ile ing an age .
erg et al .
of day 123 nce red to day 123 nce .
ond , use of the ong , 123 - eek , ion val , it is ely hat ome ren got ome of the rio ion hat ght ave ted in eir ned ion .
it ght lso be the ase hat ore ive ice on pm ( or cm ) ght ead to uch ger cts of im red to re - ing .
for ple , in erg , own , & vin ( 23a ) ( a ) oms ere mly ned to ons , ( b ) the oom ers red the ion ing her - red son ans , ( c ) the xts ere ken rom the ens ure her han ten by the ers , and ( d ) ird - ade ren ced pm ven mes ted ver ven eks , and hey ced im 123 mes ted oss ght eks ( ing ith the pm ice ) .
for ese ren , the ect ize of im ( red to ren in a rol oup who ead the ame xts ted in the ame way ) ged rom 123 to ver 123
ill ets of im end to iar ios ?
for the ent ata , the wer is rly no .
his wer is in ast to oth erg et al .
( 23a , b ) and lts rom the ust - bed lot ent .
in oth of ose cts , ren ned on pm for one rio wed ets of im hen ing xts rom oth iar and iar ios .
ere ere two ble ces een ose cts and the ent one , ver .
rst , the ren ved ore ive ing in the ous ork .
ond , the ren ere der .
hus , ugh the ets of im ere ted in the ent rch , ere is son to eve hat im ill fer to iar ios ith ter ice and / or der ren .
do ive ied ons ire ity ith eal cts ?
the ing hat cm ted in nce at ast as ood as in the pm ion ads to a ive wer .
use uch of the ied ion ure has ted cts of eal ity , his ing was a ise .
in ect , ver , ere are ood ons for it .
rst , age elf als ith ies and ugh ons .
hat is , ven a ugh ion of an ect ill not ude all the ils of its ity .
hus , ing a ord to a ugh ate ion of the ect may ten rve com - ion ell .
ond , ere was ing in the xts hat red ( for ion ) ore han a ugh ion to the eal ect .
for ple , ing in the ext ded on ion out ght of an ect hat ght be ult to ain rom an age .
hus , the ity to ody ith ion the cal ons of who did hat to hom may ave een ent to ead to ets of cm and its fer to im .
lly , his ing is ent ith ona and ahr ( 123 ) .
in hat rch , hil - ren ned the tic , rol of les egy ( cvs ) , ely hat in an eri - ent one ust ate one ble and rol all ers .
ona and ahr ted hat ren ned lly ell her hey ted a cal tus to uct nts or her hey ted ual cts on a
as ted ove , lot ork tes ess of the ved by ing ter - ion der oom ons .
ver , the eed to use cal ves its the cal ion of the ure .
the ent ork tes how
ing rly ing ion ing ied cai
hat ion can be ome ing ers , ugh we ust ill ate ess of cm der oom ons .
it is of est to ote the ion een cm and ork on the nal ets of ing ( e . g . , rab et al .
23; gee 123 , 123 ) .
eas no ist of the ics of ful nal mes is ted by one , the ing ics are ely to be ded in ost sts .
ood ter mes :
are ial and ted as sed to a zed and zed ( man et al .
123 ) dly , ood mes ide lls hat are est ned as ies for ing out ful ons ( gee 123 , p .
123 ) ful mes ate by rds or ies for ess
ved by ing aps ith ese ics .
ual ion sts hat ren are ore tic ers in the pm and cm ons ( see ote ( 123 ) ) han in the re - ead ion .
( ork way is ing ion ore ely . ) lso , the ion ter ach ion nce des an ity for ess .
eas ing ion may ell unt for ome of the ets we ved , we ink hat the eal net cts her ity ith mes .
hat is , mes elp ers to ate eir ing , and eby to und in hat ion the sms hat hey are ing ( rab et al .
hus , in oth ved by ing and ell - ned mes , it is ely hat the eal ets for ing and ing ome hen the ner is ble to eak out of ads ( 123 ) bol rry - go - und by ing the ols ( rds ) in ent nce , her hat nce is lly cal or the ion of tal els hat ody and ent cal nce .
one ght ask her the ets of ved by ing ted ere are tem - ary in the nse hat as ren ome ore led ers hey do not eed cit ice in ing .
lso , is ved by ing ial for nly the ost ete xts ? ely , ost der ers ill not eed cit ion in ing for the ort of ple xts sed ere ( ugh hat ght not be rue hen ing in a non - ive age ) .
ver , we eve hat , if ing , the lem mes ore ere as ren are ked to ead and end xts , uch as nce xts , hat do not ess mon ces .
hat is , it is the ity to und cal rms in eir xpe - ces hat , in art , kes nce xts ing .
a tly ted ent ( ond et al .
123 ) ted the ets of ing nts the ity to und ten xts ile ing the cvs ple ied by ahr ( e . g . , ona and ahr 123 ) .
in ond et al .
( 123 ) rth ade nts ard a ion out cvs and hen hey ere ven the ity to ply it .
in one ion , ren ied cvs by ing ten ons for how to set up nts in a lar ain ( e . g . , les hat rol how far a all lls ) .
hat is , the ren lly ted the tus by ing cit , ten ruc - ons .
in her ion , ren ied cvs by ing the ame tus , but his ime the cit ons ere ead to the ren .
hus , the two ons ere cal in ard to the lic ion , but nly the rst oup had ice in ing ten ial in eir ons .
in a fer ask , all ren ere ked to ply the cvs ple in a new ain ( e . g . , les hat rol how far a ing ill tch ) .
in his fer ask , all ren lly ted the tus to set up nts by ing xts hat ned ( her han lly ing ) the nts .
the ent les ere ( a ) how ell the ild was ble to low the ons by ing an ded ent ,
erg et al .
and ( b ) how ell the ild ied the ign of the ent .
the jor lts rom his fer ask ere hat ren who had sly ead the xts med the ren who had sly ned to the xts on oth res .
the ond et al .
ata ate the wer of ved by ing for our edu - lly ant ems .
rst , ion is ant for ers who are der han the nts sed in the ent nts .
ond , ion is ant for hen ren ( and , ost ely lts ) eed to arn rom ing her han ing to ead .
ird , ion is ant for ing how to ply an act ple .
lly , ion ars to ate fer .
hus , uch as ith ell - ned nal mes , ved by ing can elp to ate act sms and hat tes ion and fer of the ism .
nts his ial is sed pon ork ted by the nal nce ion der nts no .
bcs 123 to hur erg and iis - 123 to jin zhu .
any ons , ngs , and ons or ons sed in his ial are ose of the hor ( s ) and do not ily ect the ews of the nal nce ion .
we ank ren zen and lly les for eir ble elp in ata ion , and ina c .
son - erg for ion hat ter ges can eed be sed as ves .
