color has been widely used for hand segmentation .
how - ever , many approaches rely on predened skin color models .
it is very difcult to predene a color model in a mobile application where the light condition may change dramati - cally over time .
in this paper , we propose a novel statistical approach to hand segmentation based on bayes decision theory .
the proposed method requires no predened skin color model .
instead it generates a hand color model and a background color model for a given image , and uses these models to classify each pixel in the image as either a hand pixel or a background pixel .
models are generated using a gaussian mixture model with the restricted em algorithm .
our method is capable of segmenting hands of arbitrary color in a complex scene .
it performs well even when there is a signicant overlap between hand and background col - ors , or when the user wears gloves .
we show that the bayes decision method is superior to a commonly used method by comparing their upper bound performance .
experimental results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed method .
dynamic construction of hand and background color mod - els using gaussian mixture models and the restricted em algorithm .
the proposed method is capable of segmenting hands of arbitrary color in a complex scene .
another contri - bution of this paper is the study of upper bound performance for color - based hand segmentation .
the study indicates the limit for the color - based approaches .
we demonstrate that the proposed method is superior to a commonly used thresh -
the rest of the paper is organized as follows .
section 123 describes a motivating application where hand segmenta - tion approaches based on predened color models are chal - lenged .
section 123 presents the new method and algorithms .
section 123 investigates the performance of the new method , and compares it to the threshold method .
section 123 ad - dresses the limitations of the proposed method and possible
a motivating application
hand segmentation is a prerequisite for many gesture recognition tasks ( 123 ) .
a popular feature for hand segmenta - tion is skin color .
many approaches rely on predened skin color models , which work well in constrained environments .
in this paper , we investigate a hand segmentation problem for a wearable computer application .
we show that it is very difcult to predene a color model in this case because the light condition may change dramatically over time .
to solve the problem , we propose a novel statistical approach to hand segmentation based on bayes decision theory .
the new method still relies on color information , but requires no predened skin color model .
the key innovation is the
recent technological advances have made wearable com - puters available for many different applications .
however , how to efciently interact with a wearable computer is still an open question .
a gesture interface is certainly a good solution to the problem .
finger can been used as pointers for menu selection ( 123 ) .
in a wearable environment a head - mounted see - through display may jitter due to involuntarily head motion .
in this case it may be hard to point a nger at a menu item , because the item is displayed at a xed position on the head - mounted display and moves around with the
we propose a new menu selection paradigm for wear - able computers , namely the " nger menu " .
it works on a wearable computer with a head - mounted see - through dis - play and a head - mounted video camera .
unlike traditional
there are numerous publications on hand segmentation .
two common methods are background subtraction and skin color segmentation .
obviously background subtraction is infeasible since there is no constant background .
color segmentation ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) ( 123 ) is more suitable in our case .
nevertheless , previous methods often use one static skin color model , which is inadequate for us .
in the rest of this paper , we present a new way of segmenting hands with color information .
we formulate the hand segmentation problem as follows : the hand is known to be in an image .
the hand color is unknown in advance ( different environments may result in different hand colors ) , but is assumed to be largely consistent within the image .
in addition , we are concerned with initial hand segmentation , not subsequent hand tracking .
thus we limit ourselves to a single image .
under these conditions , we want to segment the hand from the background , i . e .
for each pixel in the image , we want to classify it as either a hand pixel or a background pixel .
to facilitate the discussion , we introduce our hand image data set .
a user recorded image sequences of his hand with a head - mounted camera while performing the various nger menu actions .
the actions were performed at typical places where a wearable computer is used including : ofce , home , vehicles , parks , and streets etc . , with various backgrounds and light conditions .
some sequences were taken while the user was wearing gloves , which is a reasonable situation for working in the eld .
from the sequences , 123 images were selected randomly and the hands in these images were manually segmented .
each image is 123 123 , 123 bit color .
the 123 images were randomly divided into two halves , with 123 images as training data and the other 123 images as test data .
figure 123 shows random samples of the training
guis that display menu items at xed positions on the screen , our method associates menu items onto the users ve ngers .
it works as follows :
the user sees through the head - mounted screen .
the head - mount camera also monitors the same scene .
since the users hand is not in the scene , no menu is displayed .
( figure 123a ) .
the menu system is activated when the user moves his hand , widely opened , into the scene .
the system detects the hand with the camera , and displays ve menu items at appropriate positions so that they ap - pear on the ngertips through the head - mount display .
the menu items oat .
when the hand moves , they move accordingly so that they stay on the ngertips .
thus there is no need for the user to move the hand to a specic place to make a menu selection .
( figure
by bending a nger as if it is a virtual click , the user can select the menu item on that ngertip ( figure 123d ) .
the menu system is de - activated when the user moves
his hand out of the view .
the advantages of this paradigm include :
teraction , a user can operate the device with little or no training; efcient operation , there is no need to move a n - ger to a specic place to make a selection , which could be a hard head - hand coordination task; and no need for special
in order to implement the nger menu system , we need to recognize hands from images taken by the head - mounted camera .
hand segmentation is an essential preprocessing step .
however it is a hard problem for the following reasons :
there are no restrictions on the background .
the camera moves with the users head .
the light conditions may change dramatically .
this includes changing shadow and varying light colors , e . g .
under a sodium - vapor lamp .
in this work we use the hsv color space ( 123 ) instead of the rgb color space .
moreover , we use only hue and
saturation and ignore v ( brightness ) in order to minimize the inuence of shadow and uneven lighting .
we plot hue - saturation histograms for analysis .
since the images are manually segmented , we are able to plot the color histograms for the overall image , the hand portion , and the background portion respectively , as shown in figure 123
two observations arise after investigating some images :
the peak of hand color is not xed at a certain position on the h - s plane ( compare figure 123b with 123d ) .
this means we cannot build a static hand color model for instead , we will build a different hand color model for different image .
the hand color may partially overlap with the back - ground color , as shown in figure 123d .
this means some hand pixels and background pixels have the same color .
thus misclassication is inevitable in color segmentation .
however we want to minimize
( a ) an example image , its hand and background portion
( b ) overall , hand and background histograms of ( a )
( c ) another example image
( d ) histograms of ( c )
given the color c and coordinates x
, y of a pixel , we want
to classify it as a hand pixel if
back g r ound
applying the conditional version of bayes rule , we get
we assume c
is conditionallyindependent of x , y given hand ,
back g r ound
back g r ound
123 , therefore ( 123 )
back g r ound
( 123 ) is our bayes decision criterion , which will be used to classify the pixels in an image .
back g r ound
we need three models to compute ( 123 ) .
the rst one , , is the hand color model of an image .
the second , is the background color model of the image .
these two models need to be built for each image dynamically , as discussed in section 123 .
the third , describes the spatial distributionof hand pixels , i . e .
how likely the pixel is a hand pixel .
we can estimate it from the training data set as follows :
is a hand pixel in image i , 123 otherwise .
figure 123 is the p our training data set .
the highest region corresponds to the palm .
since the user tends to place the hand at the center of the view , this distribution is reasonable .
a novel color segmentation method
in this section , we rst introduce a bayes decision theory framework for segmentation .
the framework needs a hand color model and a background color model to work .
we then present an approach to build the models dynamically for any given image using gaussian mixture models and the restricted em algorithm , which is the key innovation of this
we need to estimate the hand color model p
back g r ound
and the background color model p given image .
since hand color may change from image to image , and the hand color may partly overlap with the background color ( as in figure 123 ) , this is not a trivial task .
one observation is that hand color is largely consistent within an image .
this means hand pixels tend to concentrate
i s and s
i s , such that p
figure 123 is the gmm trained with random starting param - eters for the image in figure 123a .
note how well the gmm approximates the actual overall color distribution in figure 123b .
also note how well w 123 ( figure 123b ) resembles the actual hand color distributionin figure 123b .
since we assume the hand color can be modeled with a gaussian distribution , 123 can be used as the hand color model .
it is natural to think n an immediate question follows : can we guarantee that n approximates the actual hand color distribution well enough for any image ? if the answer is yes , then by the denition
and form a single peak in a hand color histogram .
intuitively it suggests to model the hand color p with a gaus - sian distribution .
this leads to the following method .
given an image , we can easily compute its overall color by normalizing the color histogram of the
and comparing ( 123 ) with ( 123 ) , we would have the following parametric forms to solve the problem :
it has the following relationship with the ( yet unknown ) hand color model and background color model :
back g r ound
back g r ound
is the percentage of hand pixels in the image , or the relative hand size ( not to be confused with in the previous section , which is a pixel level
we can approximate p
model ( gmm ) p k gaussian distributions n
with a gaussian mixture ( 123 ) .
the gmm is a weighted sum of
w her e
is determined empirically .
we found k
123 is sufcient .
i s mean and covariance matrix respec - tively .
with the expectation maximization ( em ) algorithm ( 123 ) ( 123 ) , we can train the gmm , that is to nd a set of
i denote n
unfortunately , in most cases the answer is no if we use the standard em algorithm .
in fact , the standard em algorithm only guarantees the overall tting of the whole distribution , but has virtually no control over the individual component gaussians .
there is no guarantee that any of the k gaussian components will be a reasonable approximation to the actual hand color distribution .
better starting parameter heuristics will not help either .
figures 123 ( a - d ) show an example image and its histograms .
figures 123 ( f - j ) are the gaussian compo - nents obtained using the standard em algorithm .
obviously none of the gaussian components resembles the actual hand color distribution ( figure 123c ) .
however , we will show that with certain modications 123 , the rst to the standard em algorithm , we can enforce n gaussian component of a gmm , to be a good approximation of the hand color distribution such that we can use ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
this is the key innovation of our method .
during the maximization step of the standard em al - gorithm , the mean , covariance and weight of each gaussian component can be adjusted freely .
however we can x some parameters to certain values , or limit their ranges during em training .
we call it the restricted em algorithm .
it will still converge to a local maximum in terms of likelihood ( 123 ) .
more specically , in this paper we will x 123 = 123 and limit .
the meaning and value of 123 , w will be discussed in next section .
by restricting these two parameters , we can enforce n approximate the hand color distribution .
the restricted em
123 to be within range
, and w
let 123 = set other parameters randomly .
during the e - step :
collect counts as in standard em algorithm .
during the m - step :
as in standard em ,
similarly for the w
iterating the e - step and m - step until converge .
figure 123 shows the effect of the restricted em algorithm .
figure 123a is the gmm obtained with the restricted em al - gorithm on the same image of figure 123a .
note the rst gaussian component ( figure 123b ) now approximates the ac - tual hand color histogram ( figure 123c ) .
leave 123 unchanged .
adjust only 123 ; 123
adjust s 123 ; 123
adjust w
as in standard em as in standard em
consider three random variables c
123 is the estimated mean of the hand color distribu - it needs to be estimated for each image as fol -
which take value of possible colors
is the color of pixel
, and c
back g r ound
back g r ound
back g r ound
assume the following generative random process :
back g r ound
that is , pixel s color is generated in such a way : firstly the identity of this pixel is chosen to be hand with and background with probabil - ity 123 ( cid : 123 ) distribution ) .
secondly , if it is hand a color is randomly picked for the pixel according to p , otherwise the color is picked according to p
( see figure 123 for the p
back g r ound
now consider a set of pixels in an image with hand proba - is a xed value between 123
denote this set as s the expectation of the previous equation over this set is
p , where p
by denition e
back g r ound
and for
av er ag e
therefore we get
av er ag e
back g r ound
performance analysis
can be estimated from the training data .
in particular , if we can nd some p close to 123 such that
back g r ound
is large enough , we can use the approximation
av er ag e
the restrictions w
123 , which can be , the relative hand size .
they are es -
interpreted as p timated from the training data .
the distribution of p in the training data is plotted in figure 123
we compute the
mean and standard deviation of this distribution .
since we expect the hand size in a new image to be comparable to those in the training data , we let
we tested the proposed method on the 123 test images .
we achieved an average false positive ( background misclas - sied as hand ) rate of 123% , false negative rate of 123% , and total error rate of 123% .
the decoding takes about 123 second for each image on a pc .
figure 123 shows some segmentation results .
since our method is a pure pixel - wise statistical classier , no ltering is applied .
therefore some segmented hands have holes or background dots .
figure 123g , 123h show the user wearing gloves .
since the gloves have consistent color , they are eas - ily recognized .
figure 123k is an example where the hand gaussian mistakenly grabs a nearby background color peak during restricted em training .
figure 123l shows an - other case where our method fails .
this is because the hand color in this image is not consistent : the image was taken inside a car , the thumb and part of the palm was rendered bluish under the windshield .
therefore a single gaussian can no longer model the hand color , which leads to the fail - ure .
nonetheless , given the difculty of the test set , we consider our method to be promising .
we are interested in the upper bound performance of the proposed method .
that is the performance when we have perfect hand and background color models .
since the test data are also manually segmented , we are able to build a perfect hand color model for each test image by normalizing its hand color histogram :
the complete algorithm is as follows .
estimate the weight restrictions w
estimate the mean restriction 123 with ( 123 ) run the restricted em algorithm in section 123 generate the hand color model with ( 123 ) generate the background color model with ( 123 ) classify each pixel with ( 123 )
and similarly a perfect background color model .
then we use these perfect models to classify pixels in the same image .
the performance is considered the upper bound of our method , because the models obtained by ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) are approximations to these perfect models .
we compare the bayesian method with a simple skin color segmentation method that is frequently ( but often im - plicitly ) used .
the simple method builds a hand color model
and classies a pixel as a hand pixel if
for some threshold t
, otherwise it classies it as a back -
we are interested in the upper bound performance of this method .
as in section 123 we build a perfect hand color model for each image , and classify the pixels in the same im - age with the simple method .
we repeat the experiment with different thresholds t .
figure 123a shows the performance curve with different t .
the lowest error rate is 123% with t =123 .
figures 123b and 123c show how false negative and false positive rates change with respect to t in the method .
( the color distributionsare mapped to one dimension ) .
since the two distributions are intrinsically overlapping , a small t will generate less false negative but more false positive , and
table 123 summarizes the performances of different meth - ods .
obviously the bayes decision method is better than the simple threshold method .
we proposed a new way of color segmentation for hand recognition in a wearable environment .
the method builds
statistical hand and background color models for each image using gmm and the restricted em algorithm , and classies pixels with bayes decision criterion .
the performance of the proposed method is promising .
the success of this method relies on the assumption that hand color in a given image is consistent , and hence can be modeled by a gaussian distribution .
another important prerequisite is that there need to be a few positions where hand tends to occur with high probability , so that the aver - age hand color in a given image can be estimated reliably .
the wearable computer application mentioned in section 123 satises these requirements .
many things can be done for further improvement .
for example , some conventional image processing methods such as ltering and region growing will denitely help .
more over , currently each pixel is processed individually , whereas it might be benecial to consider interactions between pixels .
in addition , we only considered color information .
as the upper bound performance reveals , there is a limit on how
well we can do with color .
adding different information , such as shape , would be helpful .
we are investigating some of them , and are applying the proposed method to create a gesture based wearable computer interface .
raja , s .
mckenna , s .
tracking and seg - menting people in varying lighting conditions using colour .
123rd intl conf .
on automatic face and gesture recognition , pp 123 - 123 , 123
the authors would like to thank larry wasserman , roni rosenfeld , hua yu , pan yue , ke yang , iain matthews , william kunz and all members in the interactive systems labs for their inspiring suggestions and help .
this research is partially supported by the defense advanced research projects agency under contract number daad123 - 123 - c - 123
xiaojin zhus research is supported in part by the national science fundation under grant sbr - 123
