tho try to mak sen of the not of tex con and sem wit the wil , wil wor of inf ret , cat , and lte hav to dea oft wit an ove sea of pro .
the rea str sto is tha mos of the ( mys inc ) sti bel tha dev a lin pri app to tex cat is an int res pro .
thi wil als eme in the dis of the boo tha is the foc of thi rev .
lea to cla tex usi sup vec mac by tho joa pro a the for aut lea of tex cat mod tha has bee rep sho to be ver suc .
at the sam tim , the app pro is bas on a rat rou lin gen of ( wha app is ) a lan - dep tas : top tex cla ( tc ) .
the res is two : on the one han , a lea the , bas on sta lea pri and res , tha avo the lim - tio of the str emp typ of mos tex cla res and on the oth han , the app of a nai lin mod , the bag - of - wor rep - tio , to lin obj ( i . e . , the doc ) tha sti ach imp acc .
sev goo rea for rea the boo
whe you can mea wha you are spe abo , and exp it in num , you kno som abo it; but whe you can mea it , whe you can exp it in num , you kno is of a mea and uns kin : it may be the beg of kno , but you hav sca in you tho adv to the sta of sci .
123 sta lea the app to tex cla joa boo pre the app of a sta lea mod , sup vec mac ( svm ) ( vap 123 ) , to the pro of tex cat .
as the aut emp fro the beg of the boo , it aff not onl the asp , and not onl emp ndi or imp ide , but all the asp .
the boo
vol 123 , num 123
is the res of the aut ph . d .
the , and thi is str ree in its ove
the ori con of the ph . d .
the is the spe app of svm and som the and alg nov dev for ( but not lim to ) tex cat .
the aut div the boo int fou par : not , the , met , and alg .
not int the pro and sur exi app to aut tex cat .
fir , in cha 123 , fea rep met are dis , fro bag of wor to mul or sem jus fea .
the , fou tra - dit met for lea the cat fun bay ( tze and har 123 ) , roc ( roc 123 ) , k - nea nei ( yan 123 ) , and dec - sio tre ( qui 123 ) are pre in the sam cha .
in thi cha ( tha is , ver ear in the boo ) a spe not of per is den .
it is exp as a fun of the cat err ( i . e . , the num of mis bet the sys out and the gol sta ) .
not how thi is a bia to the ent mat , as dis bel .
fin , the bas den for svm are giv ( cha 123 ) .
the pro a gen mod for tc tha is bas on the dis pro of ( bag of ) wor .
thi res in an abs not of tar cat - tio ( tca ) con the lea of whi via svm der fro the for pro ( cha 123 ) .
mor , the tca con has an ind nat , as it is bas on the ava of a lar set of tra exa : und cer ass - tio on the tra mat , the tca res are lin sep by an svm wit a con amo of err ( or los in pre acc ) .
acc , cha 123 ana met for est the pre acc of the tar svm .
the tas kno emb in the tra exa pro com inf abo the tra err , and for res fro sta lea the ( e . g . , vap 123 ) ( or new int by usi vap res as ins ) are dir em - plo her as an upp bou on the tes err ( i . e . , the err of the gen ach as mea ove tes dat ) .
met dis the cor tec for ind the tc fun by mea of svm .
thi is rst don in the tra of ind app to tc : tra exa are use to ind the max mar hyp tha sep pos fro neg exa in a bin set .
the emp evi per - man ove thr wel - kno ben dat set the via of the svm ind ( cha 123 ) .
in cha 123 the not of tra svm ( vap 123 ) is int .
it is the ind tas tha exp a con set of tes exa as a bia for bui the max mar hyp .
suc an app has sev ana wit for of act lea ( e . g . , co - tra ( blu and mit 123 ) ) , whe evi dur lea is der fro pie of mor or les wea tes evi ( e . g . , ind fea spa are use as sel inf on how to sam tra exa in co - tra ) .
alg and con met for the app of the pre res are the rep in the fou par , alg .
in cha 123 and 123 , efc alg for tra ind and tra svm are nal pre , wit ref to the sof pla svm , ano ( non ) sid eff of the aut
123 emp gro a pow the the boo has gre mer , as muc spa is giv not onl to the and exp - men asp , but to an att to emp ass sup vec mac as a gen lea the for tc .
gro for res on lar - sca dat is alw
att whe pos .
it is car out ove the tar ben cor : a col of reu new ( reu - 123 ) , a col of med tex ( ohs ) , and a set of man cla web pag ( the web col ) . 123 thi evi is als use to den an abs mod of wha a tar tex cat con is and how it is lea by a svm .
the not of tca con tri to cap exa thi .
the two asp are ver imp , as the rea can bet und the lar set of ( oft mat com ) the not aga emp dat and als val pro the res of the the aga the evi der fro rea col .
for exa , int sec ( esp for a com lin res ) are tho in whi mat not , suc as lin sep - bil , tra err , and the tca con its , are dis via est aga the ben dat ( e . g . , sec 123 of cha 123 ) .
alt tes dat can be con exh sam , tc ben are a rat pre sou of inf - mat abo the dis and lin pro of wor .
not tha suc com the and emp ana are rar in the lit .
the res is an att to rec ir ( oft too muc foc on emp per mea - sur ) and ai ( mor oft tar to the of lea wit wea pos for lar - sca emp ass ) .
fin , as lar - sca dat ana is req in the stu of sev nlp tas ( and not onl tc ) , the boo is a goo exa for res and pra in emp lan pro .
123 the , app , and imp of sup vec mac cov asp rel not jus to met , but als to the and efc imp - men of svm is a pos asp of the boo .
the boo hel in bui a rat ric pic of the eld .
int mat is pre in a com and the wel - fou way .
the the lea the bas on ear res fro vap ( 123 ) is des , and thi has a val eff on the met con .
all the asp of the app of svm to tc are thu fra in a
exa are the dis of ben dat in sec 123 of cha 123 , in whi the est use to upp - bou the cat err are com - par to the mea as car out ove the ben col .
alm eve spe par of the est tha rai que abo the qua and app of the the ( e . g . , dim of the tra set , the err emb in tra mat ) is ana com aga the ben dat .
the ana est are thu com to the eff mea .
thi is ver rel for any int in emp ana of lin dat .
123 exp ver efc one of the con of joa the is the eff spe in mak svm lea for tex cla fea .
in svm , the ind is bas on the sol of a qua opt pro in whi the siz of the mat is qua in the num of ava tra exa and the dif val dep on the cho of the ker fun . 123 the pro her are rel to the ite eva of
123 see det at the sit , res : htt : / / www . res . att . com / lew / reu , 123 ker fun are use to map the pro fro its sou fea spa to a new fea spa whe lin sep is ens .
typ ker fun k are pol , e . g . , k ( ( cid : 123 ) x12 , ( cid : 123 ) x12 ) = ( ( cid : 123 ) x12 ( cid : 123 ) x12 + 123 ) d .
vol 123 , num 123
the mat , whi can be com com efc or sto in mem ( for hig val of n ) .
the aut cap on the ide of wor on dec mat of sma siz , pre sug by osu , fre , and gir ( 123 ) .
fir , dur an ite of the alg , a sub of the var is xed so tha the cur re - eva is car out on the rem sub of the var , cal the wor set .
the dif val in the wor set det a spe bia for the alg at eac ste .
the sel of a goo wor set lim the com of eac ste and inc the con spe .
the , a sec opt cri is dis tha is rel to the use of sup vec ( svs ) .
svs are the exa clo to the sep hyp , suc tha the are at dis d ( the mar ) fro it .
as the hyp coe dep onl on svs , an alg abl to wor fro the beg on jus the svs wou be the mos efc .
the sel of svs is cle heu , as the pos wit the tra dat set is unk at the beg .
the aut sug a sel alg tha pre ( and the neg ) non - svs amo the tra dat acc to the beh in the pre h ste .
dat lef out of the ana are che a pos .
the opt con are che aft a sol for the sub has bee bui .
in cas an inv sol has bee fou , opt is rer , alt it is rei thr the las par sol fou .
alt mor det wou hav bee ben , 123 emp ana is the dis at len .
the imp of the dif fac on the lea tim are rep as the hav bee mea aga ben dat col ( sec 123 of cha 123 ) .
sta far awa ?
not eve tha cou can be cou , and not eve tha can be cou cou
123 whe is the lan ? aft a few wor spe dis pos tex rep for tha hav bee ado in the tc lit , the aut com neg cho oth tha bag of wor .
thi rep iss is sec thr the boo .
the au - tho ins con jus on lea and cat acc ach wit bag of wor .
acc to the unq fac tha a tex is a lin obj , a the rel to its cla sho at lea inc an ana alo a lin dim is , the stu of rep dif in ter of lin - gui pro .
unf , in the boo no emp ana of dif fea rep is eve att .
as a res , whe emp ndi do not t wel wit the est , wea exp are giv .
for exa , in tab 123 ( cha 123 , sec 123 ) , lin sep ( i . e . , sep of hyp wit a lin ker and wit no con - but fro sla var com for the noi in tra dat ) is dis ove the reu new and the ohs abs .
the fac tha in som cas lin sep is not ach is qui exp in ter of dub ( inv ? ) doc - ume or inc cla ree hum err .
not tha the reu col is ful of lin dub doc ( e . g . , tab wit lon lis of num and alm no tex at all see , for exa , the ear cat ) .
mor ,
123 the acc of the emp dat mad ava by the aut in thi sec is low tha in oth
par of the boo .
the phe see to fav coa app lik roc or svm : mea obt wit any fea sel ( thu inc mos non tok ) sug - ges non inc in per ( see , for exa , exp dis by bas and mos ( 123 ) ) .
evi , the rea for mis bet emp evi and the the lie in the fac tha som is mis fro the lat , whi in fac is bas on a rat rou app .
sep see har whe the spa bas on bag of wor is not exp eno .
thi str dep on the tar cla ( i . e . , the und kno dom ) and on the qua of the ava tra mat .
bag of wor pro str evi in a lar set of tc tas but do not sui exp the req inf in all cas .
the var of cat per of svm acr dif cor ( e . g . , abo 123 bre - eve poi on reu but 123 bre - eve poi for ohs ) is fur evi tha alt opt imp by svm is ver pow ( i . e . , is abl to bui a ver goo pre fun wha the und fea spa is ) , the is sti som mis .
som oth dim exi whe fur imp sho be loo for .
lan pro cou be emp in all cas in whi the gap bet the bes bag - of - wor per and the exp opt is not tri .
123 wha is a tca ? the con of tca , dis in cha 123 , see to be a com art wit no cle rel to the tar tas .
a tca is ful den in ter of the dis pro of ( a set of ) wor tha rep it .
not tha the pro are exa the one req by the sta lea cri for svm .
a tca is den as a set of wor cla det by the com ave fre gur in the tra dat .
suc a rep see det by the res goa ( i . e . , sta lea ) , and no oth str evi is bro for exc for fre gur in the ben dat .
thi is in fac an emp val of the lea the for whi bag of wor and the dis in tex are suf to ind tho svm tha min cat err .
thi onl imp , how , tha suc lea via svm is a val of the tca not .
the rev is not tru , as thi lat doe not rep any the exp of wha lea for tex cat is .
123 whi per ? mos of the res in inf ret is tar to the max of uti fun tha are ope ( e . g . , acc in cat or rel of doc - men to que ) .
and thi is als the per ado in per eva ( los 123 ) and in bui ben .
the que tha mak sen are sti : is the min of cat err the ent tar of tex cat ? is it the onl res foc ? is sep hyp the onl int asp of the pro , or sho mor pow exp be lea fro tra dat ?
thi boo sug tha cla fun can be suc bui fro ex - ten tra dat ( i . e . , man cla doc ) .
the out of the lea fra , how , is jus a boo fun wor as a bla box .
unf , the aut nev tri to giv an int of the kin of inf ind .
are the wei ind by the svm mea in som sen ? are the tel som eve out of the bla box ? if we are to com two svm , can we rel jus on dif in per ? or sho we per loo to oth asp to mea the use ? my fee is tha ver lit has bee don for eva how wel svm rep the cri asp of the pro .
for exa , are the ind coe wi of the hyp ( i . e . , dim rel to the ith wor )
vol 123 , num 123
lin mea ele , dir map tow lex or sem phe - nom ? in thi per , per mea tha are cou or pro of cla err are lim , or eve mis .
res sho avo the tem - tio of red to mer opt of the pre / rec tra - off .
lin jus fea hav the inh ben of sup nat exp of the sys ind , alt eva usu doe not acc for the .
in my vie , the ( lin ) int of dif asp of svm lea in tc is an imp - tan res dir .
the stu of the rel bet tra mat ( as rep und a lin per ) and the cho of ker fun opt for the tas is a pro res lin .
lat ree
sup vec mac are wid ado tod for sev tas ( e . g . , kud and mat 123 ) .
the see to rep eff the ind of sep fun - tio fro tra dat .
the svm ind set ( of whi the tra one is jus a der ) is a str app to tc ind , and thi boo is pro .
alt it lea a lar set of ope pro , the boo mus be see as a rel con in the are of mac lea for nat lan .
it is a pow mea of get acq wit the and met kno for tex cla .
unf , obv gap hig aff its com as a han in cou on mac lea for tex cla and nlp , but thi was out of the aut aim .
in cur res and pra , the the pro in thi boo and its emp gro are imp con to the are of emp nat lan pro - ces .
fir , it emb new ide abo lea tha loo for app to new nlp tas .
cla of nl que in que ans and pat acq - tio for ada inf ext are jus two exa in whi a tra svm app is cur bei app .
sec , the boo emb an app to emp res tha is ver ele .
sol the ins is her sys - ica mir wit rea dat , whe mot for the rst are ten fou in the lat .
the imp met and app ach say muc abo the eff rea by ele way of doi res .
