we pre a lar - mar for and alg for str out pre tha all the use of lat var .
our pro cov a lar ran of app - tio pro , wit an opt pro tha can be sol eci usi con - con pro .
the gen and per of the app is dem thr thr app inc mot - ndi , nou - phr cor res , and opt pre at k in inf
in man str pre tas , the is use mod inf tha is not ava as par of the tra dat ( x12 , y12 ) , . . . , ( xn , yn ) .
in nou phr cor res , for exa , one is typ giv the clu y of nou - phr for a tra doc x , but not the set of inf lin tha con the nou phr tog int clu .
sim - ila , in mac tra , one may be giv the tra y of sen x , but not the lin str - tur h ( e . g .
par tre , wor ali ) tha con - nec the .
thi mis inf h , eve if not obs , is cru for exp hig - del mod - els for the tas .
it is imp to inc the inf in the mod as lat var .
lat var hav lon bee use to mod obs - tio in gen pro mod suc as hid in dis mod , how , the use of lat var is muc les exp .
re - cen , the has bee som wor on con ran - dom fie ( wan et al . , 123 ) wit lat var .
eve les exp is the use of lat var in
app in pro of the 123 th int con - enc on mac lea , mon , can , 123
cop - rig 123 by the aut ( s ) / own ( s ) .
lar - mar str out lea suc as max - mar mar net or str svm ( tas et al . , 123 tso et al . , 123 ) .
whi the non - pro mod oer exc per on man str pre tas in the ful ob - ser cas , the cur do not sup the use of lat var , whi exc man int ap -
in thi pap , we pro an ext of the str - tur svm fra to inc lat var .
we ide a par , yet rat gen , for for whi the exi an eci alg to nd a loc opt usi the con - con pro .
the res alg is sim mod as the str svm alg for the ful obs cas .
to ill the gen of our lat str svm alg , we pro exp res on thr die app in com bio , nat lan pro , and inf ret .
rel wor
man of the ear wor in int lat var - abl int dis mod wer mot by com vis app , whe it is nat to use lat var to mod hum bod par or par of obj in det tas .
the wor in ( wan et al . , 123 ) int hid con ran fie , a dis pro lat var mod for str pre , wit app to two com - put vis tas .
in nat lan pro the is als wor in app dis pro - bil lat var mod , for exa the tra of pcf wit lat ann in a dis man ( pet & kle , 123 ) .
the non - con lik - hoo fun of the pro are usu opt usi gra - bas met .
the con - con pro ( yui & ran - jan , 123 ) emp in our wor is a gen fra - wor for min non - con fun whi fal int the cla of dc ( die of con ) pro - min .
in rec yea the hav bee num app -
lea str svm wit lat var
cat of the alg in mac lea , inc - ing tra non - con svm and tra svm ( col et al . , 123 ) .
the app in ( smo et al . , 123 ) emp ccc to han mis dat in svm and gau pro and is clo rel to our wor .
how our app is non - pro and avo the com of par fun , whi is par att for str pre .
ver rec the ccc alg has als bee app to obt tig non - con los bou on str lea ( cha et al . , 123 ) .
in the com vis com the are rec wor on tra hid crf usi the max - mar cri ( fel et al . , 123 wan & mor , 123 ) .
in the wor the foc on cla pro - lem onl and the tra pro for are a spe cas of our pro bel .
int , the alg in ( fel et al . , 123 ) coi wit our app for bin cla but was der in a die way .
str svm
sup we are giv a tra set of inp - out str pai s = ( ( x12 , y12 ) , .
, ( xn , yn ) ) ( x y ) n .
we wan to lea a lin pre rul of the for
fw ( x ) = arg ( w ( x , y ) ) ,
whe is a joi fea vec tha des the rel bet inp x and str out y , wit w bei the par vec .
the opt pro of com thi arg is typ ref to as the inf or pre pro .
whe tra str svm , the par vec - tor w is det by min the ( reg ) ris on the tra set ( x12 , y12 ) , . . . , ( xn , yn ) .
ris is mea thr a use - sup los fun ( y , y ) tha qua how muc the pre y die fro the cor out y .
not tha is typ non - con and dis and the are usu ex - pon man pos str y in the out spa y .
the str svm for ( tso - tar et al . , 123 ) ove the dic by re - pla the los fun wit a pie lin con - vex upp bou ( mar res )
( yi , yi ( w ) ) max
( ( yi , y ) +w ( xi , y ) ) w ( xi , yi )
whe yi ( w ) = arg w ( xi , y ) .
to tra str svm we the sol the fol con opt pro :
( ( yi , y ) +w ( xi , y ) ) w ( xi , yi ) ( cid : 123 ) .
des the typ exp siz of y , thi op - tim pro can be sol eci usi cut - pla or sto gra met .
str - tur svm giv exc per on man str - tur pre tas , esp whe the mod is hig - dim and it is nec to opt to non - sta los fun .
str svm wit lat
as arg in the int , how , in man app - cat the inp - out rel is not com cha by ( x , y ) x y pai in the tra set alo , but als dep on a set of uno la - ten var h h .
to gen the str svm for , we ext our joi fea vec ( x , y ) wit an ext arg h to ( x , y , h ) to de - scr the rel amo inp x , out y , and lat var h .
we wan to lea a pre rul of the
fw ( x ) = arg ( y , h ) yh ( w ( x , y , h ) ) .
at rst gla , a nat way to ext the los fun - tio is to aga inc the lat var h h sim to abo , to giv
i ( w ) ) , ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) ) ,
i ( w ) = arg w ( xi , yi , h ) and
( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) = arg ( y , h ) yh w ( xi , y , h ) .
ess , thi ext los mea the die bet the pai ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) giv by the pre - tio rul and the bes lat var h i ( w ) tha ex - pla the inp - out pai ( xi , yi ) in the tra set .
lik in the ful obs cas , we can der a hin - los sty upp bou
i ( w ) ) , ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) ) i ( w ) ) , ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) )
( w ( xi , yi , h
i ( w ) ) w ( xi , yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) )
w ( xi , y , h ) ! + ( ( yi , h w ( xi , yi , h ) ( cid : 123 ) .
i ( w ) ) , ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) )
in the cas of str svm wit lat var - abl , the com dep on w wit the los can be rem usi the fol ine , com - mon ref to as los - aug inf in
lea str svm wit lat var
str svm tra :
w ( x , y ) ( cid : 123 ) + ( yi , yi ( w ) )
( w ( xi , yi ) + ( yi , y ) ) .
whe lat var are inc , how , the de - pen of on the lat var h i ( w ) of the cor lab yi pre us fro app thi tri .
to cir thi dic , let us ret the den - tio of los fun fro equ ( 123 ) .
as we wil see bel , man rea wor app do not req the los fun to dep on the oen h i ( w ) .
in ap - pli suc as par and obj rec , the lat var ser as ind for mix com - nen or int rep and are not par of the out .
as a res , the nat los fun tha we are int in for the tas usu do not dep on the lat var .
we the foc on the cas whe the los fun doe not dep on the lat var h
i ( w ) ) , ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) ) = ( yi , yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) .
not tha how the los fun may sti dep on hi ( w ) .
in the cas whe the lat var h is a par of the pre whi we car abo we can sti den use asy los fun ( y , y , h ) for lea .
the app of nou phr cor res and opt for pre in doc ret in the exp sec bel are goo exa of thi .
wit the red los ( yi , yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) , the bou in equ ( 123 ) bec
i ( w ) ) , ( yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) )
( w ( xi , y , h ) + ( yi , y , h ) ) ! ( cid : 123 ) max
w ( xi , yi , h ) ( cid : 123 ) .
usi the sam rea as for ful obs str - tur svm , thi giv ris to the fol opt - tio pro for str svm wit lat var -
( w ( xi , y , h ) + ( yi , y , h ) ) !
w ( xi , yi , h ) ( cid : 123 ) .
it is eas to obs tha the abo for red to the usu str svm for in the ab - sen of lat var .
the for can als be
eas ext to inc ker , alt the usu ext cos of com inn pro in non ker fea spa app .
fin , not tha the red los dis our app fro tra str out lea - ing ( zie et al . , 123 ) .
whe the los dep onl on the ful obs lab yi , it rul out the pos - bil of tra lea , but the res als res in sim opt pro com to the tra cas ( for exa , the app in ( zie et al . , 123 ) inv con rem to dea wit dep on h
i ( w ) wit the los ) .
sol the opt pro
a key pro of equ ( 123 ) tha fol fro the red los ( yi , yi ( w ) , hi ( w ) ) is tha it can be wri - ten as the die of two con fun :
( w ( xi , y , h ) + ( yi , y , h ) ) #
w ( xi , yi , h ) # .
thi all us to sol the opt pro us - ing the con - con pro ( ccc ) ( yui & ran , 123 ) .
the gen tem for a ccc alg for min a fun f ( w ) g ( w ) , whe f and g are con , wor as fol :
alg 123 con - con pro ( ccc ) 123 : set t = 123 and ini w12
suc tha g ( w )
fin hyp vt g ( wt ) + ( w wt ) vt for all w sol wt+ = arg f ( w ) + w vt set t = t + 123
123 : unt ( f ( wt ) g ( wt ) ) ( f ( wt1 ) g ( wt1 ) ) <
the ccc alg is gua to dec the obj fun at eve ite and to con to a loc min or sad poi ( yui & ran - jan , 123 ) .
lin 123 con a hyp tha upp bou the con par of the obj g , so tha the opt pro sol at lin 123 is con .
in ter of the opt pro for lat str - tur svm , the ste of com the upp bou for the con par in lin 123 inv com
i = arg wt ( xi , yi , h )
for eac i .
we cal thi the lat var com - tio pro .
the hyp con is vt =
i=1 ( xi , yi , h
lea str svm wit lat var
com the new ite wt+ in lin 123 inv sol - ing the sta str svm opt pro - lem by com yi wit the lat var h i as if the wer com obs :
( w ( xi , y , h ) + ( yi , y , h ) )
w ( xi , yi , h
thu the ccc alg app to str svm wit lat var giv ris to a ver int alg tha alt bet imp the la - ten var h i tha bes exp the tra pai ( xi , yi ) and sol the str svm opt pro whi tre the lat var as com - ple obs .
thi is sim to the ite pro - ces of exp max ( em ) .
but unl em whi max the exp log lik un - der the mar dis of the lat var , we are min the reg los aga a sin lat var h
i tha bes exp ( xi , yi ) .
in our imp , we use an imp ver of the cut pla alg cal the pro bun met ( kiw , 123 ) to sol the sta str svm pro in equ ( 123 ) .
in our exp the pro bun met usu con usi few ite tha the cut pla alg ( joa et al . , to app ) in the exp bel .
the al - gor als ts ver nic int the ccc alg - mic fra whe it is emp to sol the sta - dar str svm opt pro ins the ccc loo .
the sol wt1 fro the las ite can be use as a sta poi in a new ccc ite - ati , wit hav to rec all the cut fro scr .
we wil pro som com exp - enc at the end of the exp sec .
bel we dem thr app of our la - ten str svm alg .
som of the hav bee dis in the mac lea lit be - for , but we wil sho tha our lat str svm fra pro new and str so - lut app wit goo pre per .
a sof pac imp the lat str - tur svm alg is ava for dow at
dis mot fin
our dev of the lat str svm was mot by a mot ndi pro in yea dna thr col wit com bio .
mot are rep pat in dna seq tha are bel to hav bio sig .
our dat con of ars ( aut rep se - que ) scr in two yea spe s .
klu and s .
cer .
our tas is to pre whe a par - tic seq is fun ( i . e . , whe the sta the rep pro ) in s .
cer and to nd out the mot res .
all the nat ars in s .
cer are lab as pos , sin by den the are fun .
the one tha sho ars ac - tiv in s .
klu wer the fur tes to see whe the con fun ars in s .
cer , sin the mig hav los the fun due to se - que div of the two spe dur evo .
the are lab as pos if fun and neg oth .
in thi pro the lat var h is the pos of the mot in the pos seq , sin cur exp pro do not hav eno res to pin the loc .
alt we hav 123 pos exa and 123 neg exa .
in add we hav 123 seq fro the yea in - ter reg for bac mod est .
pop met for mot ndi inc met bas on em ( bai & elk , 123 ) and gib - sam .
for thi par yea dat we bel a dis app , esp one inc - ing lar - mar sep , is ben bec of the clo rel and dna seq sim amo the die yea spe in the dat .
let xi den the ith bas ( a , c , g , or t ) in our inp seq x of len n .
we use the com pos - spe wei mat plu bac mod app in our den of fea vec :
( x , y , h ) =
( if y = +12 )
( if y = 123 ) ,
p sm is the fea cou for the jth pos of the mot in the pos - spe wei mat , and bg is the fea cou for the bac mod ( we use a mar bac mod of ord 123 ) .
for the pos seq , we ran ini the mot pos h uni ove the who len of the seq .
we opt ove the zer - one los for cla and per a 123 - fol cro val - dat .
we mak use of the set of 123 int seq in tra by tre the as neg ex - amp ( but the are exc in the tes set ) .
ins of pen the sla var by c in the obj - tiv we onl pen the exa by c / 123 to avo
lea str svm wit lat var
tab 123
cla err on yea dna ( 123 - fol cv )
gib sam ( l = 123 ) gib sam ( l = 123 ) lat str svm ( l = 123 ) lat str svm ( l = 123 )
ove the tra set wit neg exa ( wit the fac 123 / 123 pic by cro - val ) .
we tra mod usi reg con c fro ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) tim the siz of the tra set ( 123 for eac fol ) , and eac mod is re - tra 123 tim usi 123 die ran see .
as con we ran a gib sam ( ng & kei , 123 ) on the sam dat , wit the sam set of int seq for bac mod est .
it rep goo sig on mot len l = 123 and l = 123 , whi we com our alg aga .
to pro a str bas we opt the cla thr - old of the gib sam on the tes set and rep the bes acc ove all pos thr .
tab 123 com the acc of the gib sam and our met ave acr 123 fol .
our alg sho a sig imp ove the gib sam - ple ( wit p - val < 123 in a pai t - tes ) .
as for the iss of loc min , the sta dev on the cla err ove the 123 ran see , av - era ove 123 fol , are 123 for l = 123 and 123 for l = 123
the are var in sol qua due to loc min in the obj , but the are rel - ati mil in thi tas and can be ove wit a few ran res .
in thi app the lat str svm all us to exp dis inf to bet de - tec mot sig com to tra uns - vis pro mod for mot ndi .
cur we are wor wit our col on way to int - pre the pos - spe wei mat enc in the wei vec tra by the lat str svm .
nou phr cor via clu
in nou phr cor res we wou lik to det whi nou phr in a tex ref to the sam rea - wor ent .
in ( fin & joa , 123 ) the tas is for as a cor clu pro tra wit str svm .
in cor clu the obj fun max the sum of pai sim .
how thi mig not be the mos app obj , bec in a clu of cor nou phr of siz k , man of the o ( k12 ) lin con onl ver wea sig .
for exa , it is
fig 123
the cir are the clu den by the lab y .
the set of sol edg is one spa for h tha is con wit y .
the dot edg are exa of inc lin tha wil be pen by the los fun .
dic to det whe a men of the nam tom at the beg of a tex and a pro he at the end of the tex are cor dir wit sca thr the who tex .
fol the int tha hum mig det if two nou phr are cor by rea tra - sit ove str cor lin ( ng & car , 123 ) , we mod the pro of nou phr cor - enc as a sin - lin agg clu pro .
eac inp x con all n nou phr in a doc - men , and all the pai fea xij bet the ith and jth nou phr .
the lab y is a par of the n nou phr int cor clu .
the lat var h is a spa for of str cor - ere lin tha is con wit the clu y .
a spa for h is con wit a clu y if eve clu in y is a con com in h ( i . e . , a tre ) , and the are no edg in h tha con two dis clu in y ( fig 123 ) .
to sco a clu y wit a lat spa for h , we use a lin sco mod tha add up all the edg sco for edg in h , par by w :
w ( x , y , h ) = x ( i , j ) h
to pre a clu y fro an inp x ( arg in equ ( 123 ) ) , we can run any max spa - nin tre alg suc as kru alg on the com gra of n nou phr in x , wit edg wei den by w xij .
the out h is a spa for ins of a spa tre bec two tre wil rem dis if all edg con the two tre hav neg wei .
we the out the clu - ter den by the for h as our pre y .
for the los fun , we wou lik to pic one tha sup eci com in the los - aug inf , whi at the sam tim pen inc spa tre app for our app
lea str svm wit lat var
tab 123
clu acc on muc dat
mit los pai los
lat str svm lat str svm ( mod los , r = 123 )
pro the los fun
( y , y , h ) = n ( y ) k ( y ) x ( i , j ) h
l ( y , ( i , j ) ) ,
whe n ( y ) and k ( y ) are the num of ver and the num of clu in the cor clu y .
the fun l ( y , ( i , j ) ) ret 123 if i and j are wit the sam clu in y , and - 123 oth .
it is eas to see tha thi los fun is non - neg and zer if and onl if the spa for h den the sam clu as y .
sin thi los fun is lin dec int the edg in h , the los - aug inf can als be com eci usi kru alg .
sim the ste of com the lat var h giv a clu y , whi inv com a hig sco spa for tha is con wit y , can als be don wit the sam alg .
to eva our alg , we per exp on the muc nou phr cor dat .
the are 123 doc in the dat and we use the rst 123 for tra and the rem 123 for tes .
the pai fea xij are the sam as tho in ( ng & car , 123 ) .
the reg par c is pic fro 123 to 123 usi a 123 - fol cro val - tio pro .
the spa for h for eac cor clu y is ini by con all cor nou phr in chr ord ( the ord in whi the app in the doc ) , so tha ini eac tre in the spa for is a lin cha .
tab 123 sho the res of our alg com to the svm cor clu app in ( fin & joa , 123 ) .
we pre the res usi the sam los fun as in ( fin & joa , 123 ) .
pai los is the pro of all o ( n12 ) edg inc - rec cla .
mit los is a los pro for eva nou phr cor tha is rel to the f12 - sco ( vil et al . , 123 ) .
we can see fro the rst two lin in the tab tha our met per wel on the pai los but wor on the mit los whe com wit the svm cor clu app .
err ana rev tha our met tra wit the los den by equ ( 123 ) is ver con whe pre lin bet nou phr , hav hig pre but rat low rec .
the we ada our los fun to mak it mor sui for min the mit los .
we mod the los fun in equ ( 123 ) to pen les for add edg tha inc lin two dis clu , usi a pen r < 123 ins of 123 for eac inc edg add .
wit the mod los ( wit r = 123 pic via cro - val ) our met per muc bet tha the svm cor clu app on the mit los ( p - val < 123 in a z - tes ) .
unl the svm cor clu app , whe app inf is req , our inf pro - dur inv onl sim and eci max spa - nin tre cal .
for thi nou phr cor - enc tas , the new for wit lat str svm imp bot the pre per and tra eci ove con str svm .
opt for pre in ran
our las exa app is rel to opt for pre in doc ret .
pre is den to be the num of rel doc in the top k pos giv by a ran , div by k .
for eac exa in the tra set , the pat x is a col of n doc ( x12 , .
, xn ) ass wit a que q , and the lab y ( 123 , 123 ) n cla whe eac doc in the col is rel to the que or not .
how for the pur of eva - ati and opt for inf ret per - man mea suc as pre and ndc , the par ord of the doc giv by the lab y is ins .
the lab y doe not tel us whi the top k doc are .
to dea wit thi pro , we can pos the exi of a lat tot ord h on all doc rel to the que , wit h con wit the par ord giv by lab y .
to be pre , let hj be the ind of the jth mos rel doc , suc tha xhj tot xhj for j fro 123 to n 123 , whe tot is a tot ord of rel on the doc xi , and let >to be its str ver .
the lab y is con wit the lat var h if yi > yj imp xi >to xj , so tha all rel doc in y com bef the non - rel doc in the tot ord h .
for opt for pre in thi sec , we can res h to be rst k doc h12 ,
we use the fol con for the fea vec - tor ( in a lin fea spa ) :
( x , y , h ) =
the fea vec onl con of con fro the top k doc sel by h , whe all oth doc - ume in the lab y are ign ( wit the res tha h has to be con wit y ) .
lea str svm wit lat var
fig 123
lat str svm tri to opt for ac - cur nea the reg for the top k doc ( cir ) , whe a goo gen ran dir w is giv
for the los we use the fol pre los :
( y , y , h ) = min ( 123 ,
( yhj == 123 ) .
thi los fun is ess one min pre , wit sli mod whe the are les tha k rel doc in a col .
we rep 123 by n ( y ) / k so tha the los can be min to zer , whe n ( y ) is the tot num of rel doc in y .
int , wit thi par des of the fea vec and the los fun , the alg is try to opt for the cla acc in the reg nea the top k doc , whi ign mos of the doc in the res of the fea spa ( fig 123 ) .
all the inf pro req for thi app are eci to sol .
pre req sor bas on the sco w xj in dec ord and pic the top k .
the los - aug inf req sor bas on the sco w xj ( yj == 123 ) and pic the top k for h .
lat var com for y req a sim sor pro on w xj and pic the top k , but dur sor the par ord giv by the lab y has to be res ( so tha xi com bef xj whe eit yi > yj , or yi == yj and w xi > w xj ) .
to eva our alg , we ran exp on the ohs tas of the let 123 dat ( liu et al . , 123 ) .
we use the per - que - nor ver of the fea in all our tra and tes bel , and emp exa the sam tra , tes , and val - dat set spl as giv .
for thi app it is vit to hav a goo ini - iza of the lat var h .
sim ini str suc as ran pic k rel doc - men ind by the lab y doe not wor for the dat wit noi rel jud , whi usu - all giv the tri zer vec as sol .
we ado the fol ini str .
usi the sam tra and val set in eac fol , we tra a mod opt for wei ave cla -
tab 123
pre on ohs dat ( 123 - fol cv ) lat str svm 123 ini wei vec
fig 123
num of ccc ite aga c
sic acc ( wei by the rec of the num of doc ass by eac que ) .
the for eac fol the tra mod is use as the ini wei vec to opt for pre .
we can see fro tab 123 tha our lat str - tur svm app per bet tha the ran svm ( her et al . , 123 joa , 123 ) on pre - cis , 123 , 123 , 123 , one of the str bas in the let 123 ben .
we als ess tie wit lis ( cao et al . , 123 ) , one of the bes ove ran - ing met in the let 123 ben .
as a san - ity che , we als rep the per of the ini wei vec use for ini the ccc .
the la - ten str svm con imp upo the , sho tha the goo per is not sim a re - sul of goo ini .
eci of the opt alg
fig 123 sho the num of ite req for con for the thr tas for die val of the par c , ave acr all fol in the re - spe cro val pro .
we x the pre - cis at 123 for the mot ndi and opt for pre tas , and use = 123 for the nou phr cor tas due to a die sca of the los fun .
we can see tha in gen the num of ccc ite req onl gro ver mil wit c , and mos run nis wit 123 ite .
as the cos of eac ccc ite is no mor tha sol a sta str svm opt pro ( wit
lea str svm wit lat var
the com of lat var ) , the tot num of ccc ite giv us a rou est of the cos of tra lat str svm , whi is not in pra the cos is eve low bec we do not nee to sol the opt - tio pro to hig pre in the ear ite , and we can als reu sol fro the pre ite - ati for war sta in a new ccc ite .
in adv in lar mar cla , cha 123 , 123
mit pre .
joa , t .
( 123 ) .
opt sea eng usi cli dat .
acm sig con .
on kno - edg dis and dat min ( pp .
123 ) .
joa , t . , fin , t . , & yu , c .
( to app ) .
cut - pla tra of str svm .
mac
we hav pre a fra and for for lea str svm wit lat var .
we ide a par cas tha cov a wid ran of app pro , yet aor an eci tra alg usi con - con pro .
the alg is mod and eas ada to new app - cat .
we dem the gen of the lat str svm wit thr app , and a fut res dir wil be to exp fur app - tio of thi alg in die dom .
thi wor is sup by nsf awa iis - 123
we wou lik to tha tom fin and pro uri kei for the dat , and the ano rev for the hel sug to imp thi pap .
