ose ing to ake nse of the ion of ual ent and ics hin the ild , ild rld of ion val , ion , and ing ave to eal ten ith an ing sea of ems .
the lly nge ory is hat ost of hem ( elf ded ) ill eve hat ing a lly led ach to ext ion is an ing rch lem .
his ill lso rge in the ion of the ook hat is the cus of his iew .
ing to ify xts ing ort tor nes by ten ims ses a ory for tic ing of ext ion els hat has een dly own to be ery ful .
at the ame ime , the ach sed is sed on a her ugh tic ion of ( hat tly is ) a age - ent ask : pic ext ion ( tc ) .
the ult is old : on the one and , a ing ory , sed on cal ity les and lts , hat ids the ita - ons of the ong ism cal of ost ext ion ch; and on the her and , the ion of a ive tic del , the bag - of - rds nta - ion , to tic cts ( i . e . , the nts ) hat ill ves ive acy .
ral ood ons for ing the ook
hen you can ure hat you are ing out , and ess it in ers , you now ing out it; but hen you not ure it , hen you not ess it in ers , our dge is of a ger and ory ind : it may be the ing of dge , but you ave ely in our hts ced to the age of nce .
123 cal ing ory ied to ext ion mss ook nts the ion of a cal ing del , ort tor nes ( vms ) ( nik 123 ) , to the lem of ext ion .
as the hor zes rom the ing of the ook , it cts not nly cal cts , and not nly cal ngs or ion eas , but all ese cts .
the ook
ume 123 , ber 123
is the lts of the ors ph . d .
sis , and his is gly ted in its all
the nal ion of the ph . d .
sis is the cic ion of vms and ome cal and mic lty ped for ( but not ted to ) ext ion .
the hor des the ook nto our rts : ion , ory , ods , and hms .
ion ces the lem and eys ing hes to tic ext ion .
rst , in ter 123 , ure ion ods are sed , rom bag of rds to rds or lly ied res .
hen , our tra - nal ods for ing the ion ive yes ( ras and ann 123 ) , hio ( hio 123 ) , k - est ors ( ang 123 ) , and eci - ion ees ( lan 123 ) are ted in the ame ter .
in his ter ( hat is , ery rly in the ook ) a cic ion of nce is ned .
it is sed as a ion of the ion ror ( i . e . , the ber of hes een the tem ome and the old ard ) .
ice how his is a ias to the ire ter , as sed low .
lly , the sic ons for vms are ven ( ter 123 ) .
ory ses a ral del for tc hat is sed on the nal ies of ( ags of ) rds .
his lts in an act ion of get iza - ion ( cat ) ept the ity of ich via vms ves rom eir mal ies ( ter 123 ) .
ver , the cat ept has an ive ure , as it is sed on the ity of a rge set of ing les : der ain ump - ons on the ing ial , the ats lts are rly ble by an svm ith a led unt of ror ( or oss in ive acy ) .
gly , ter 123 zes ods for ing the ive acy of the get svm .
the ask dge ded in the ing les des ete ion out the ing ror , and mal lts rom cal ity ory ( e . g . , nik 123 ) ( or wly ced by ing iks lts as ion ) are tly em - yed ere as an per und on the ing ror ( i . e . , the ror of the ion ved as red ver est ata ) .
ods ses the ore que for ing the tc ons by ans of vms .
his is rst one in the ion of ive hes to tc : ing les are sed to uce the mum gin ane hat tes ive rom ive les in a ary ing .
the cal ood for - nce ver ree ell - own ing ata rms the ity of the svm ion ( ter 123 ) .
in ter 123 the ion of ive vms ( nik 123 ) is ced .
it is the ive ask hat its a ent set of ing les as a ias for ing the mum gin ane .
uch an ach has ral ies ith rms of ive ing ( e . g . , co - ing ( lum and ell 123 ) ) , ein nce ing ing is ved rom ces of ore or ess eak est nce ( e . g . , ent ure ces are sed as ive ion on how to ple ing les in co - ing ) .
hms and ete ods for the ion of the ous lts are hen ted in the rth art , hms .
in ers 123 and 123 , ent hms for ing ive and ive vms are lly ted , ith nce to the are orm ght , her ( ary ) ide ect of the ors
123 lly ing a ful ory the ook has eat rit , as uch ace is ven not nly to cal and eri - tal cts , but to an mpt to lly ess ort tor nes as a ral ing ory for tc .
ing mal lts on rge - ale ata is ays
ted ere ble .
it is ied out ver the get ing ora : a ion of ers ews ( ers - 123 ) , a ion of cal xts ( med ) , and a set of lly ied web ges ( the bkb ion ) . 123 his nce is lso sed to ene an act del of hat a get ext ion ept is and how it is ble by a svm .
the ion of cat ept ies to ure tly his .
ese two cts are ery ant , as the der can ter and the rge set of ( ten lly lex ) cal ons nst cal ata and lso ate ely the lts of the ory nst the nce ved rom eal ons .
for ple , ing ons ( lly for a nal ics her ) are ose in ich cal ons , uch as ear ara - ity , ing ror , and the cat ept elf , are sed via ion nst the ing ata ( e . g . , ion 123 of ter 123 ) .
ugh est ata not be red ive les , tc rks are a her ous rce of for - ion out the nal and tic ies of rds .
ice hat uch ned cal and cal ses are are in the ure .
the ult is an mpt to ile ir ( ten too uch sed on cal nce mea - res ) and ai ( ore ten ted to ies of ing ith ker ies for rge - ale cal ent ) .
lly , as rge - ale ata sis is red in the udy of ral nlp sks ( and not nly tc ) , the ook is a ood ple for ers and ers in cal age ing .
123 ory , ion , and ion of ort tor nes ing cts ted not ust to ods , but lso to ory and ent ple - ion of vms is a ive ect of the ook .
the ook lps in ing a her ich ure of the eld .
ory ter is ted in a ive and lly ell - ded way .
hen the ing ory sed on ier lts rom nik ( 123 ) is bed , and his has a ble ect on the cal ion .
all the cts of the ion of vms to tc are hus med in a
les are the ion of ing ata in ion 123 of ter 123 , in ich cal ors sed to per - und the ion ror are com - red to eir res as ied out ver the ing ons .
ost ery cic ter of the ors hat ses ons out the ity and ity of the ory ( e . g . , ion of the ing set , the ror ded in ing ial ) is zed ely nst the ing ata .
the cal tes are hus red to the ive res .
his is ery ant for one ted in cal sis of tic ata .
123 ess sus ncy one of the ons of mss sis is the ort ent in ing svm ing for ext ion ble .
in vms , the ion is sed on the ion of a tic ion lem in ich the ize of the rix is tic in the ber of ble ing les and the ent ues end on the ice of the nel ons . 123 the ems ere are ted to the ive ion of
123 see ils at ese tes , ely : ttp : / / www . rch . att . com / ise / tml , 123 nel ons are sed to map the lem rom its rce ure ace to a new ure ace ere ear ity is red .
cal nel ons k are ial , e . g . , k ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) = ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 + 123 ) d .
ume 123 , ber 123
the rix , ich not be ely ted tly or red in ory ( for igh ues of n ) .
the hor zes on the dea of ing on sed xes of ler ize , sly ted by una , und , and osi ( 123 ) .
rst , ing an ion of the thm , a set of the les is xed so hat the ent re - ion is ied out on the ing set of the les , led the ing set .
the ent ues in the ing set ine a cic ias for the thm at ach tep .
the ion of a ood ing set its the ity of ach tep and ses the nce eed .
hen , a ond ion ion is sed hat is ted to the use of ort ors ( svs ) .
svs are the les ser to the ing ane , uch hat hey are at nce d ( the gin ) rom it .
as the ane nts end nly on svs , an thm ble to ork rom the ing on ust the svs uld be the ost ent .
the ion of svs is rly tic , as eir ion hin the ing ata set is own at the ing .
the hor sts a ion thm hat cts ( and hen cts ) non - svs ong the ing ata ing to eir ior in the ous h eps .
ata eft out of the sis are ked a ori .
the ity ons are ked ter a ion for the lem has een ilt .
in ase an lid ion has een und , ion is run , ugh it is zed ugh the ast ial ion und .
ugh ore ils uld ave een ial , 123 cal sis is hen sed at gth .
the cts of the ent ors on the ing mes are ted as hey ave een red nst ing ata ons ( ion 123 of ter 123 ) .
tay far way ?
not ing hat nts can be ted , and not ing hat can be ted nts
123 ere is the age ? ter a few rds ent ing ble ext ion sms hat ave een ted in the tc ure , the hor ely cts ces her han ags of rds .
his nal sue is ary out the ook .
the au - hor ead tes ust on ity and ion acy ved ith ags of rds .
ing to the ble act hat a ext is a tic ect , a ory ted to its ion uld at ast ude an sis ong a tic hat is , the udy of ons ent in rms of lin - tic ies .
ely , in the ook no cal sis of ent ure ons is ven ted .
as a ult , ver cal ngs do not t ell ith cal tes , eak ons are ven .
for ple , in ble 123 ( ter 123 , ion 123 ) , ear ity ( i . e . , ity of ane ith a ear nel and ith no tri - ion rom ack les ing for the ise in ing ata ) is sed ver the ers ews and the med cts .
the act hat in ome ses ear ity is not ved is kly ned in rms of ous ( lid ? ) doc - nts or ent ons ing man ors .
ote hat the ers ion is ull of lly ous nts ( e . g . , les ith ong sts of ers and ost no ext at ll; see , for ple , the arn ory ) .
ver ,
123 the acy of the cal ata ade ble by the hor in his ion is wer han in her
rts of the ook .
ese ena eem to vor rse hes ike ios or vms : res ned out any ure ion ( hus ing ost tic ens ) sug - est ial ses in ces ( see , for ple , nts sed by ili and tti ( 123 ) ) .
tly , the son for hes een cal nce and the ory ies in the act hat ing is ing rom the ter , ich in act is sed on a her ugh ion .
ity ems der hen the ace sed on ags of rds is not ive ugh .
his tly nds on the get ass ( i . e . , the ing dge ain ) and on the ity of the ble ing ial .
ags of rds ide ong nce in a rge set of tc sks but do not bly ess the red ion in all ses .
the ity of ion ces of vms oss ent ora ( e . g . , out 123 eak - ven int on ers but 123 eak - ven int for med ) is her nce hat ugh ion ied by vms is ery ful ( i . e . , is ble to ild a ery ood ion ion ver the ing ure ace is ) , ere is ill ing ing .
ome her ons ist ere her ent uld be ked for .
age ing uld be yed in all ses in ich the gap een the est bag - of - rds nce and the ted mum is not ial .
123 hat is a cat ? the ept of cat , sed in ter 123 , ems to be a lex act ith no ear hip to the get ask .
a cat is lly ned in rms of the nal ies of ( a set of ) rds hat ent it .
ote hat ese ies are tly the nes ted by the cal ity ria for vms .
a cat is ned as a set of ord ses ned by eir mon age ncy res in the ing ata .
uch a ion ems ned by the rch oal ( i . e . , cal ity ) , and no her ong nce is ght ard ept for ncy res in the ing ata .
his is in act an cal ion of the ity ory for ich ags of rds and eir ons in xts are ent to uce ose vms hat ize ion ors .
his nly ies , ver , hat ful ing via vms is a ion of the cat ion .
the rse is not rue , as his ter oes not ent any cal ion of hat ing for ext ion is .
123 ich ces ? ost of the rch in ion val is ted to the ion of ity ons hat are nal ( e . g . , acy in ion or nce of ocu - nts to ies ) .
and his is lso the ive ted in nce ion ( see 123 ) and in ing rks .
the ons hat ake nse are ill : is the ion of ion ror the ire get of ext ion ? is it the nly rch cus ? is ing nes the nly ing ect of the lem , or uld ore ful ons be ned rom ing ata ?
his ook sts hat ion ons can be lly ilt rom ex - ive ing ata ( i . e . , lly ied nts ) .
the ome of the ing ork , ver , is ust a ean ion ing as a ack box .
ely , the hor ver ies to ive an ion of the ind of ion ced .
are the hts ced by the svm ful in ome nse ? are hey ing ing ven ide of the ack box ? if we are to are two vms , can we ely ust on ces in nce ? or uld we aps ook to her cts to ure eir ess ? my ing is hat ery tle has een one for ing how ell vms ent the cal cts of the ems .
for ple , are the ced nts wi of the ane ( i . e . , ons ted to the ith ord )
ume 123 , ber 123
lly ful nts , tly ble ard cal or tic phe - ena ? in his ive , nce res hat are nts or ies of ion ors are ted , or ven ing .
rch uld oid the pta - ion of ing to ely ion of the ion / all ade - off .
lly ied res ave the ent net of ing ral ons of the tem ion , ugh ion lly oes not unt for hem .
in my iew , the ( tic ) ion of ent cts of svm ing in tc is an por - ant rch ion .
the udy of the hip een ing als ( as ted der a tic ive ) and the ice of nel ons mal for the ask is a ing rch ine .
ate ons
ort tor nes are ely ted day for ral sks ( e . g . , udo and oto 123 ) .
hey eem to uce ely the ion of ion unc - ons rom ing ata .
the svm ive ing ( of ich the ive one is ust a ion ) is a ard ach to tc ion , and his ook is oof .
ugh it ves a rge set of pen ems , the ook ust be een as a ant ion in the rea of ine ing for ral age .
it is a ful ans of ing ted ith cal and cal dge for ext ion .
ely , ous aps hly ect its ess as a ook in ses on ine ing for ext ion and nlp , but his was ide of the ors ims .
in ent rch and ice , the ory sed in his ook and its cal ing are ant ons to the rea of cal ral age pro - ing .
rst , it ies new eas out ing hat ook for ons to new nlp sks .
ion of nl ons in ion ing and ern isi - ion for ive ion ion are ust two les in ich a ive svm ach is tly ing ied .
ond , the ook ies an ach to cal rch hat is ery ant .
lid cal ion is ere mat - lly red ith eal ata , ere ons for the rst are ely und in the ter .
the ive cal and ive nts say uch out the ess ble by ant ays of ing rch .
