gal et al .
( 123 ) mad a sim rei and ext in the spe pro com .
onc aga we men the boo by ell et al .
( 123 ) , whi als cov lea in thi con .
the bas of all the lea alg pre by the aut is the pow em alg ( bau & pet , 123 dem , lai , & ru - bin , 123 ) .
the obj of the alg is to max the lik of the obs dat ( equ 123 ) in the pre of hid var .
let us den the obs dat by y = ( y12 , .
, y ) , the hid var by x = ( x12 , .
, x ) , and the par of the mod by .
max the lik as a fun of is equ to max the log - lik :
l ( ) = log p ( y| ) = log
p ( x , y| ) dx .
usi any dis q ove the hid var , we can obt a low bou on l :
p ( y , x| ) dx = log = f ( q , ) ,
q ( x ) p ( x , y| ) p ( x , y| )
q ( x ) log p ( x , y| ) dx
q ( x ) log q ( x ) dx ( 123 )
whe the mid ine is kno as jen ine and can be pro usi the con of the log fun .
if we den the ene of a glo con ( x , y ) to be log p ( x , y| ) , the som rea may not tha the low bou f ( q , ) l ( ) is the neg of a qua kno in sta phy as the fre ene : the exp ene un - der q min the ent of q ( nea & hin , 123 ) .
the em alg alt bet max f wit res to the dis q and the par , res , hol the oth xed .
sta fro som ini par 123 :
qk+ arg max
f ( q , k )
a uni rev of lin gau mod f ( qk+ , ) .
k+1 arg max
it is eas to sho tha the max in the e - ste res whe q is exa the con dis of x : qk+ ( x ) = p ( x|y , k ) , at whi poi the bou bec an equ : f ( qk+ , k ) = l ( k ) .
the max in the m - ste is obt by max the rst ter in equ 123 , sin the ent of q doe not dep on : k+1 arg max
p ( x|y , k ) log p ( x , y| ) dx .
thi is the exp mos oft ass wit the em alg , but it obs the ele int of em as coo asc in f ( nea & hin , 123 ) .
sin f = l at the beg of eac m - ste and sin the e - ste doe not cha , we are gua not to dec the lik aft eac com em - ste .
the , at the hea of the em lea pro is the fol ide : use the sol to the lte and smo pro to est the unk hid sta giv the obs and the cur mod par .
the use thi cti com dat to sol for new mod par .
giv the est sta obt fro the inf alg - rit , it is usu eas to sol for new par .
for lin gau mod , thi typ inv min qua for suc as equ - tio 123 , whi can be don wit lin reg .
thi pro is rep usi the new mod par to inf the hid sta aga , and so on .
we sha rev the det of par alg as we pre the var cas how , we now tou on one gen poi tha oft cau con .
our goa is to max the tot lik ( see equ 123 ) ( or equ max the tot log lik ) of the obs dat wit res to the mod par .
thi mea int ( or sum ) ove all way in whi the gen mod cou hav pro the dat .
as a con of usi the em alg to do thi max , we nd our nee to com ( and max ) the exp log - lik of the joi dat , whe the exp is tak ove the dis of hid val pre by the cur mod par and the obs - tio .
thu , it app tha we are max the inc qua , but doi so is in fac gua to inc ( or kee the sam ) the qua of int at eac ite of the alg .
123 con - sta lin gau sys
hav des the bas mod and lea pro , we now foc on spe lin ins of the mod in whi the hid sta var x is con and the noi pro are gau .
thi wil all us to
sam row and zou gha
elu the rel amo fac ana , pca , and kal lte mod .
we div our dis int mod tha gen sta dat and tho tha gen dyn dat .
sta dat hav no tem dep no inf wou be los by per the ord of the dat poi yt; whe for dyn dat , the tim ord of the dat poi is cru .
123 sta dat mod : fac ana , spc , and pca .
in man sit we hav rea to bel ( or at lea to ass ) tha eac poi in our dat set was gen ind and ide .
in oth wor , the is no nat ( tem ) ord to the dat poi the mer for a col .
in suc cas , we ass tha the und sta vec x has no dyn the mat a is the zer mat , and the x is sim a con ( whi we tak wit los of gen to be the zer vec ) cor by noi .
the new gen mod the bec :
a = 123 x = w
y = cx + v
w n ( 123 , q ) v n ( 123 , r ) .
not tha sin xt is dri onl by the noi w and sin yt dep onl on xt , all tem dep has dis .
thi is the mot for the ter sta and for the not x and y abo .
we als no lon use a sep dis for the ini sta : x12 x w n ( 123 , q ) .
tio 123 to obt the mar dis of y , whi is the gau ,
thi mod is ill in fig 123
we can ana int equ -
123 , cqc + r
two thi are imp to not .
fir , the deg men abo per bet the str in q and c . 123 thi mea the is no los of gen in res q to be dia .
fur , the is ar - bit sha of sca bet a dia q and c .
typ we eit res the col of c to be uni vec or mak q the ide mat to res thi deg .
in wha fol we wil ass q = i wit los of gen .
sec , the cov mat r of the obs noi mus be re - str in som way for the mod to cap any int or inf pro in the sta x .
if r wer not res , lea cou sim cho c = 123 and the set r to be the sam cov of the dat , thu tri ach the max lik mod by exp all of the
123 if we dia q and rew the cov of y , the deg bec cle : .
to mak q dia , we sim rep c wit
123 , ( ce1 / 123 ) ( ce1 / 123 ) t + r
a uni rev of lin gau mod
fig 123 : sta gen mod ( con sta ) . the cov mat of the inp noi w is q and the cov mat of the out noi v is r .
in the net mod bel , the sma cir rep noi sou and all uni are lin .
out wei hav onl bee dra fro one hid uni .
thi mod is equ to fac ana , spc and pca mod dep on the out noi cov .
for fac ana , q = i and r is dia .
for spc , q = i and r = i .
for pca , q = i and r = lim i .
str in the dat as noi .
( rem tha sin the mod has red to a sin gau dis for y , we can do no bet tha hav the cov of our mod equ the sam cov of our dat . ) not tha res r , unl mak q dia , doe con som los of gen fro the ori mod of equ 123 .
the is an int spa way to thi abo thi sta gen mod .
we use whi noi to gen a sph bal ( sin q = i ) of den in k - dim sta - spa .
thi bal is the str and rot int p - dim obs spa by the mat c , whe it loo lik a k - dim pan .
the pan is the con wit the cov den of v ( des by r ) to get the nal cov mod for y .
we wan the res ell den to be as clo as pos to the ell giv by the sam cov of our dat .
if we res the sha of the v cov by con r , we can for int inf to app in bot r and c as a res .
fin , obs tha all var of lte and smo red to the sam pro in thi sta mod bec the is no tim dep .
we ove a sin hid sta are see onl the pos pro p giv the cor sin obs .
thi inf is eas don by
sam row and zou gha
lin mat pro , and the res den is its gau :
( cid : 123 ) = p ( cid : 123 ) = n ( cid : 123 ) y , i c
= n ( cx , r ) |y n ( 123 , i ) |x
123 , cct + r = ct ( cct + r ) 123 ,
fro whi we obt not onl the exp val y of the unk sta but als an est of the unc in thi val in the for of the cov i c .
com the lik of a dat poi y is mer an eva und the gau in equ 123 .
the lea pro now con of ide the mat c and r .
the is a fam of em alg to do thi for the var cas dis bel , whi are giv in det at the end of thi rev .
123 fac ana .
if we res the cov mat r tha con the obs noi to be dia ( in oth wor , the cov ell of v is axi ali ) and set the sta noi q to be the ide mat , the we rec exa a sta sta mod kno as max lik fac ana .
the unk sta x are cal the fac in thi con the mat c is cal the fac loa mat , and the dia ele of r are oft kno as the uni .
( see eve , 123 , for a bri and cle int . ) the inf cal is don exa as in equ 123 .
the lea alg for the loa mat and the uni is exa an em alg exc tha we mus tak car to con r pro ( whi is as eas as tak the dia of the unc max lik est see rub & tha , 123 gha & hin , 123 ) .
if c is com fre , thi pro is cal exp fac ana if we bui a pri zer int c , it is con fac ana .
in exp fac ana , we are try to mod the cov str of our dat wit p + pk k ( k 123 ) / 123 fre par ins of the p ( p + 123 ) / 123 fre par in a ful cov mat .
the dia of r is the key ass her .
fac ana att to exp the cov str in the obs dat by put all the var uni to eac coo in the mat r and put all the cor - rel str int c ( thi obs was rst mad by lyt , 123 , in res to wor by wol ) .
in ess , fac ana con the axi rot in whi the ori dat arr to be spe bec obs noi ( oft cal sen noi ) is ind alo the coo in the axe .
how , the ori sca of the coo is uni .
if we wer to cha the uni in whi we mea som of the com of y , fac ana cou mer res the cor ent in r and
123 the cor k ( k 123 ) / 123 com in bec of deg in uni tra
of the fac .
see , for exa , eve ( 123 ) .
a uni rev of lin gau mod
row in c and ach a new mod tha ass the res dat ide lik .
on the oth han , if we rot the axe in whi we mea the dat , we cou not eas x thi sin the noi v is con to hav axi ali cov ( r is dia ) .
em for fac ana has bee cri as bei qui slo ( rub & tha , 123 ) .
ind , the sta met for tti a fac ana mod ( jor , 123 ) is bas on a qua - new opt alg ( fle & pow , 123 ) , whi has bee fou emp to con fas tha em .
we pre the em alg her not bec it is the mos efc way of tti a fac ana mod , but bec we wis to emp tha for fac ana and all the oth lat var mod rev her , em pro a uni app to lea .
fin , rec wor in onl lea has sho tha it is pos to der a fam of em - lik alg wit fas con rat tha the sta em alg ( kiv & war , 123 bau , kol , & sin , 123 ) .
123 spc and pca .
if ins of res r to be mer dia , we req it to be a mul of the ide mat ( in oth wor , the cov ell of v is sph ) , the we hav a mod tha we wil cal sen pri com ana ( spc ) ( row , 123 ) .
the col of c spa the pri sub ( the sam sub fou by pca ) , and we wil cal the sca val on the dia of r the glo noi lev .
not tha spc use 123 pk k ( k 123 ) / 123 fre par to mod the cov .
onc aga , inf is don wit equ 123 and lea by the em alg ( exc tha we now tak the tra of the max lik est for r to lea the noi lev see ( row , 123 ) ) .
unl fac ana , spc con the ori axi rot in whi the dat arr to be uni : if the mea coo sys wer rot , spc cou ( lef ) mul c by the sam rot , and the lik of the new dat wou not cha .
on the oth han , the ori sca of the coo is pri bec spc ass tha the obs noi has the sam var in all dir in the mea uni use for the obs dat .
if we wer to res one of the com of y , the mod cou not be eas cor sin v has sph cov ( r = i ) .
the spc mod is ver sim to the ind pro pro pri com ana ( tip & bis , 123 ) .
if we go eve fur and tak the lim r = lim i ( whi kee the dia ele of q nit ) 123 the we obt the sta pri com ana ( pca ) mod .
the dir of the col of c are
123 sin iso sca of the dat spa is arb , we cou jus as eas tak the lim as the dia ele of q bec inn whi hol r nit or tak bot lim at onc .
the ide is tha the noi var bec inn com to the sca of the dat .
sam row and zou gha
kno as the pri com .
inf now red to sim lea
( cid : 123 ) |x , = lim y , i c = ( x ( ctc ) 123 ) .
ct ( cct + i ) 123
sin the noi has bec inn , the pos ove sta col to a sin poi , and the cov bec zer .
the is sti an em alg for lea ( row , 123 ) , alt it can lea onl c .
for pca , we cou jus dia the sam cov of the dat and tak the lea k eig mul by the eig to be the col of c .
thi app wou giv us c in one ste but has man pro . 123 the em lea alg amo to an ite pro for ndi the lea eig wit exp dia .
an imp nal com is tha ( reg ) pca doe not den a pro den mod in the obs spa , so we can ask dir abo the lik ass by the mod to som dat .
we can , how , exa a qua tha is pro to the neg log - lik in the lim of zer noi .
thi is the sum squ dev of eac dat poi fro its pro .
it is thi cos tha the lea alg end up min and is the onl ava eva of how wel a pca mod ts new dat .
thi is one of the mos cri fai of pca : tra poi by arb amo ins the pri sub has no eff on the mod err .
123 rec tha if c is pk wit p > k and is ran k , the lef mul by ct ( cct ) 123 ( whi app not to be wel den bec cct is not inv ) is exa equ to lef mul by ( ctc ) 123 .
thi is the sam as the sin val dec ide of den the inv of the dia sin val mat as the inv of an ele unl it is zer , in whi cas it rem zer .
the int is tha alt cct tru is not inv , the dir alo whi it is not inv are exa tho tha ct is abo to pro out .
123 it is com ver har to dia or inv lar mat .
it als req an eno amo of dat to mak a lar sam cov mat ful ran .
if we are wor wit pat in a lar ( tho ) num of dim and wan to ext onl a few ( ten ) pri com , we can nai try to dia the sam cov of our dat .
tec lik the sna met ( sir , 123 ) att to add thi but sti req the dia of an n n mat whe n is the num of dat poi .
the em alg app sol all of the pro , req no exp dia wha and the inv of onl a kk mat .
it is gua to con to the tru pri sub ( the sam sub spa by the pri com ) .
emp exp ( row , 123 ) ind tha it con in a few ite , unl the rat of the lea eig is nea uni .
a uni rev of lin gau mod
123 tim - ser mod : kal fil mod .
we use the ter dy - nam dat to ref to obs seq in whi the tem ord is imp .
for suc dat , we do not wan to ign the sta evo dyn , whi pro the onl asp of the mod cap of cap tem str .
sys des by the ori dyn gen mod , sho in equ 123 and 123 , are kno as lin dyn sys or kal lte mod and hav bee ext inv by the eng and con com for dec .
the emp has tra bee on inf pro : the fam dis kal lte ( kal , 123 kal & buc , 123 ) giv an efc rec sol to the opt lte and lik com pro , whi the rts rec ( rau , 123 rau et al . , 123 ) sol the opt smo pro .
lea of unk mod par was stu by shu - way and sto ( 123 ) ( c kno ) and by gha and hin ( 123 ) and dig et al .
( 123 ) ( all par unk ) .
fig 123 ill thi mod , and the app giv pse for its imp .
we can ext our spa int of the sta cas to thi dyn mod .
as bef , any poi in sta - spa is sur by a bal ( or ovo ) of den ( des by q ) , whi is str ( by c ) int a pan in obs spa and the con wit the obs noi cov - anc ( des by r ) .
how , unl the sta cas , in whi we alw cen our bal of den on the ori in sta - spa , the cen of the sta - spa bal now ows fro tim ste to tim ste .
the ow is acc - ing to the eld des by the eig and eig of the mat a .
we mov to a new poi acc to thi ow eld the we cen our bal on tha poi and pic a new sta .
fro thi new sta , we aga ow to a new poi and the app noi .
if a is the ide mat ( not the zer mat ) , the the ow doe not mov us any , and the sta jus evo acc to a ran wal of the noi set by q .
123 dis - sta lin gau mod
we now con a sim mod of the bas con sta mod in whi the sta at any tim tak on one of a nit num of dis val - ues .
man rea - wor pro , esp tho tha hav dis mod of ope , are bet mod by int sta tha are not con .
( it is als pos to con mod tha hav a mix con and dis sta . ) the sta evo is sti rst - ord mar dyn , and the obs pro is sti lin wit add gau noi .
the mod inv the use of the win - tak - all non wta ( ) , den suc tha wta ( x ) for any vec x is a new vec wit uni in the pos of the lar coo of the inp and zer in all oth pos .
the dis - sta gen mod is now sim :
xt+ = wta ( axt + wt ) = wta ( axt + w ) yt = cxt + vt = cxt + v
sam row and zou gha
fig 123 : dis sta gen mod for dyn dat .
the wta ( ) blo 123 blo is a uni del .
the imp the win - tak - all non .
the z cov mat of the inp noi w is q and the cov mat of the out noi v is r .
in the net mod bel , the sma cir rep noi sou and the hid uni x hav a win tak all beh ( ind by das lin ) .
out wei hav onl bee dra fro one hid uni .
thi mod is equ to a hid mar mod wit tie out
whe a is no lon kno as the sta tra mat ( alt we wil see tha mat sho ) .
as bef , the k - vec w and p - vec v are tem whi and spa gau dis noi ind of eac oth and of x and y .
the ini sta x12 is gen in the obv
x12 = wta ( n ( cid : 123 )
( tho we wil soo see tha wit los of gen q12 can be res to be the ide mat ) .
thi dis sta gen mod is ill in fig 123
123 sta dat mod : mix of gau and vec qua - zat .
jus as in the con - sta mod , we can con sit in
a uni rev of lin gau mod
whi the is no nat ord to our dat , and so set the mat a to be the zer mat .
in thi dis - sta cas , the gen mod bec :
w n ( , q ) v n ( 123 , r ) .
a = 123 x = wta ( w ) y = cx + v
x = ej
eac sta x is gen ind acc to a xed dis pro his con by the mea and cov of w .
spe - is the pro ass by the gau n ( , q ) ica , j = p to the reg of k - spa in whi the jth coo is lar tha all oth .
( her ej is the uni vec alo the jth coo dir . ) not tha to obt non pri j wit the wta ( ) non , we req a non mea for the noi w .
onc the sta has bee cho , the cor - res out y is gen fro a gau who mea is the jth col of c and who cov is r .
thi is exa the sta mix of gau clu mod exc tha the cov of all the clu are con to be the sam .
the pro j = p to the mix coe of the clu , and the col of c are the clu - ter mea .
con r in var way cor to con the sha of the cov of the clu .
thi mod is ill in fig 123
x = ej
to com the lik of a dat poi , we can exp per the sum equ to the int in equ 123 sin it con onl k ter ,
( cid : 123 ) = k ( cid : 123 )
x = ej , y
n ( ci , r ) |y p ( x = ei )
n ( ci , r ) |y i ,
( cid : 123 ) = k ( cid : 123 )
whe ci den the ith col of c .
aga , all var of inf and lte are the sam , and we are sim see the set of dis pro - j = 123 , .
in oth wor , we nee to do pro cla .
the pro is eas sol by com the res x tha eac clu has for the dat poi y : x = ej , y x = ej n ( ci , r ) |y p ( x = ei )
x = ej| ( x ) j = n ( cid : 123 ) ( x ) j = p x = ej|
x = ei , y
( cid : 123 ) = p
x = ej , y
123 as in the con sta cas , we aga dis wit any spe tre of
the ini sta .
sam row and zou gha
fig 123 : sta gen mod ( dis sta ) .
the wta ( ) blo imp the win - tak - all non .
the cov mat of the inp noi w is q and the cov mat of the out noi v is r .
in the net mod bel , the sma cir rep noi sou and the hid uni x hav a win tak all beh ( ind by das lin ) .
out wei hav onl bee dra fro one hid uni .
thi mod is equ to a mix of gau clu wit tie cov r or to vec qua ( vq ) whe r = lim i .
n ( ci , r ) |y i
the mea x of the sta vec giv a dat poi is exa the vec of res for tha dat poi .
thi qua den the ent pos dis of the dis hid sta giv the dat poi .
as a mea of the ran or unc in the hid sta , one cou eva the ent or nor ent of the dis dis cor to x .
alt thi may see rel to the var of the pos in fac ana , thi ana is dec .
sin x den the ent dis - but , no oth var mea is nee .
lea con of ndi the clu mea ( col of c ) , the cov r , and the mix coe - cie j .
thi is eas don wit em and cor exa to max lik com lea ( dud & har , 123 now , 123 ) , exc
123 the ent of the dis div by the log of k so tha it alw lie
bet zer and one .
a uni rev of lin gau mod
tha all the clu sha the sam cov .
lat we int ext to the mod tha rem thi res .
as in the con - sta cas , we can con the lim as the ob - ser noi bec inn com to the sca of the dat .
wha res is the sta vec qua mod .
the inf ( cla - sic ) pro is now sol by the one - nea - nei rul , usi euc dis if r is a mul of the ide mat , or mah dis in the uns mat r oth .
sim to pca , sin the obs noi has dis , the pos col to hav all of its mas on one clu ( the clo ) , and the cor unc ( ent ) bec zer .
lea wit em is equ to usi a bat ver of the k - mea alg suc as tha pro by llo ( 123 ) .
as wit pca , vec qua doe not den a pro den in the obs spa .
onc aga , we exa the sum squ dev of eac poi fro its clo clu cen as a qua pro to the lik in the lim of zer noi .
bat k - mea alg min thi cos in lie of max a pro lik .
xt+ = ej| = ei
123 tim - ser mod : hid mar mod .
we ret now to the ful dyn dis - sta mod int in equ 123 and 123 .
our key obs is tha the dyn des by equ 123 are exa equ to the mor tra dis mar cha dyn usi a sta tra mat t , whe tij = p .
it is eas to see how to com the equ sta tra mat t giv a and q abo : tij is the pro ass by the gau who mea is the ith col of a ( and who cov is q ) to the reg of k - spa in whi the jth coo is lar tha all oth .
it is als tru tha for any tra mat t ( who row eac sum to uni ) , the exi mat a and q suc tha the dyn are equ . 123 sim , the ini pro mas fun for x12 is eas com fro 123 and q12 and for any des his ove the sta for x12 the exi a 123 and q12 tha ach it .
sim deg exi in thi dis - sta mod as in the con - sta mod exc tha it is now bet the str of a and q .
sin for any noi cov q , the mea in the col of a can be cho to set any equ tra pro tij , we can wit los of gen res q to be the ide mat and use onl the mea in the col
123 alt har to see .
ske of pro : wit los of gen , alw set the cov to the ide mat .
nex , set the dot pro of the mea vec wit the k - vec hav uni in all pos to be zer sin mov alo thi dir doe not cha the pro .
now the are ( k 123 ) deg of fre in the mea and als in the pro mod .
set the mea ran at rst ( exc tha it has no pro alo the all - uni dir ) .
mov the mea alo a lin den by the con tha all pro but two sho rem con unt one of tho two pro has the des val .
rep thi unt all hav bee set cor .
sam row and zou gha of a to set pro .
equ , we can res q12 = i and use onl the mea 123 to set the pro for the ini sta x12
thu , thi gen mod is equ to a sta hmm exc tha the emi pro den are all con to hav the sam co - var .
lik and lte com are per wit the so - cal for ( alp ) rec , whi com smo is don wit the for - bac ( alp - bet ) rec .
the em alg for lea - ing is exa the wel - kno bau - wel ree pro ( bau & pet , 123 bau et al . , 123 ) .
the is an imp and pec con of dis the sta tha aff the smo pro .
the sta seq for by tak the mos pro sta of the pos dis at eac tim ( as com by the for - bac rec giv the obs dat and mod par ) is not the sin sta seq mos lik to hav pro the obs dat .
in fac , the seq of sta obt by con the sta tha ind hav max pos pro at eac tim ste may hav zer pro und the pos .
thi cre the nee for sep inf alg to nd the sin mos lik sta seq giv the obs .
suc alg for lte and smo are cal vit dec met ( vit , 123 ) .
why was the no nee for sim dec in the con - sta cas ? it tur out tha due to the smo and uni nat of the pos pro for ind sta in the con cas ( all pos are gau ) , the seq of max a pos sta is exa the sin mos lik sta tra , so the reg kal lte and rts smo rec suf .
it is pos ( see , for exa , rab & jua , 123 ) to lea the dis - sta mod par bas on the res of the vit dec ins of the for - bac smo oth wor , to max the joi lik of the obs and the sin mos lik sta seq rat tha the tot lik sum ove all pos pat thr
123 ind com ana
the has bee a gre dea of rec int in the bli sou sep pro tha att to rec a num of sou sig fro obs - vat res fro tho sig , usi onl the kno tha the ori - ina sou are ind .
in the squ - lin ver of the pro , the obs pro is cha ent by a squ and inv mat c .
in oth wor , the are as man obs str as sou , and the is no del , ech , or con dis .
rec exp has sho the sur res tha for non dis sou , thi pro can oft be sol eve wit no pri kno abo the sou or abo c .
it is wid bel ( and beg to be pro the -
a uni rev of lin gau mod
ret see mac , 123 ) tha hig kur sou dis are mos
we wil foc on a mod , but by now cla , ver due to bel and sej ( 123 ) and bar and rot ( 123 ) of the ori ind com ana alg ( com , 123 ) .
alt bel and sej der it fro an inf - max per , thi mod alg can als be obt by den a par pri dis ove the com of the vec xt of sou and the der a gra lea rul tha max the lik of the dat yt in the lim of zer out noi ( ama , cic , & yan , 123 pea & par , 123 mac , 123 ) .
the alg , ori der for uno dat , has als bee ext to mod tim ser ( pea & par , 123 ) .
we now sho tha the gen mod und ica can be obt by mod sli the bas mod we hav con thu far .
the mod is to rep the wta ( ) non int abo wit a gen non g ( ) tha ope com on its inp .
our gen mod ( for sta dat ) the bec :
x = g ( w ) y = cx + v
w n ( 123 , q ) v n ( 123 , r ) .
the rol of the non is to con the gau dis pri for w int a non pri for x .
wit los of gen , we can set q = i , sin any cov str in q can be be obt by a lin tra of a n ( 123 , i ) ran var , and thi lin tra can be sub int the non g ( ) .
ass tha the gen non g ( ) is inv and dif , any cho of the gen non res in a cor pri dis on eac sou giv by the pro den fun :
px ( x ) = n ( 123 , 123 ) |g1 ( x )
it is imp to dis thi gen non fro the non - lin fou in the ica lea rul .
we cal thi the lea rul non - f ( ) , and cla the dis bet the two non cla ica is den for squ and inv c in the lim of van noi , r = lim i .
und the con , the pos den of x giv y is a del fun at x = c 123 , and the ica alg can be den in ter of lea the rec ( or unm ) wei w = c rat tha the gen ( mix ) wei c .
the gra lea rul to inc the lik is
t + f ( wy ) yt ,
sam row and zou gha whe the lea rul non f ( ) is the der of the imp log pri : f ( x ) = d log px ( x ) ( mac , 123 ) .
the , any gen non - lin g ( ) res in a non pri px ( ) , whi in tur res in a non f ( ) in the max lik lea rul .
som fru - tra fro the gen mod per , ica is oft dis in ter of the lea rul non wit any ref to the imp pri ove the sou .
a pop cho for the ica lea rul non f ( ) is the tan ( ) fun , whi cor to a hea tai pri ove the sou
fro equ 123 , we obt a gen rel bet the cum dis fun of the pri on the sou , cdf ( x ) , and of the zer - mea , uni var noi w ,
cdf ( g ( w ) ) = cdf ( w ) = 123
for mon g , whe erf ( z ) is the err fun 123 / rel can oft be sol to obt an exp for g .
for exa , if px ( x ) =
cos ( x ) , we nd tha set
123 + erf ( w /
g ( w ) = ln
cau the gen mod of equ 123 to gen vec x in whi eac com is dis exa acc to 123 / ( cos ( x ) ) .
thi non - lin is sho in fig 123
ica can be see eit as a lin gen mod wit non pri for the hid var or as a non gen mod wit gau pri for the hid var .
it is the pos to der an em alg for ica , eve whe the obs noi r is non and the are few sou tha obs .
the onl com is tha the pos dis of x giv y wil be the pro of a non pri and a gau lik ter , whi can be dif to eva .
giv thi pos , the m ste the con of max the exp log of the joi pro as a fun of c and r .
the m - ste for c is
c arg max
log p ( x ) + log p ( yi| , c , r )
whe i ind the dat poi and ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) i den exp wit res to the pos dis of x giv yi , p ( x|y , c , r ) .
the rst ter doe not
a uni rev of lin gau mod
123 123 123 123 123
fig 123 : the non g ( ) fro equ 123 whi con a gau dis - tri sou w n ( 123 , 123 ) int one dis as x = g ( w ) 123 / ( cos ( x ) ) .
dep on c , and the sec ter is a qua in c , so tak der wit res to c , we obt a lin sys of equ tha can be sol in the usu man :
a sim m - ste can be der for r .
sin , giv x , the gen mod is lin , the m - ste req onl eva the rst and sec mom of the pos dis of x : ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) i and ( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) i .
it is not nec to kno any els abo the pos if its rst two mom can be com .
the may be com usi gib sam or , for cer sou pri , usi tab loo or clo - for com . 123 in par , mou et al .
( 123 ) and att and sch ( 123 ) hav ind pro usi a gau mix to mod the pri for eac com of the sou , x .
the pos dis ove x is the als a gau mix , whi can be eva ana and use to der an em alg for bot the mix mat and the sou den .
the onl cav is tha the num of gau com in the pos gro exp in the num of sou , 123 whi lim the app of thi met to mod wit onl a few sou .
123 in the lim of zer noi , r = 123 , the em upd der in thi man deg to c c and r r .
sin thi doe not dec the lik , it doe not con the con pro for the em alg .
how , it als doe not inc the lik , whi mig exp why no one use em to t the sta zer - noi ica mod .
123 if eac sou is mod as a mix of k gau and the are m sou , the
the are km com in the mix .
sam row and zou gha
alt , we can com the pos dis of w giv y , whi is the pro of a gau pri and a non lik .
aga , thi may not be eas , and we may wis to res to gib sam ( gem & gem , 123 ) or oth mar cha mon car met ( nea , 123 ) .
ano opt is to emp a det tri rec use by bis , sve , and wil ( 123 ) in the con of the gen top - gra map ( gtm ) , whi is a pro ver of koh ( 123 ) sel - org top map .
we app the gau pri via a nit num ( n ) of xed poi ( thi is the tri ) .
in oth wor ,
p ( w ) = n ( 123 , i ) p ( w ) = n ( cid : 123 )
whe the wjs are a nit sam fro n ( 123 , i ) .
the gen mod the tak the n poi , map the thr a xed non g , an ada lin map c , and add gau noi wit cov r to pro y .
the gen mod is the a con mix of n gau , whe the con com fro the fac tha the onl way the cen can mov is by var c .
the , com the pos ove w amo to com the res und eac of the n gau for the dat poi .
giv the res , the pro is aga lin in c , whi mea tha it can be sol usi equ 123 .
for the tra zer - noi lim of ica , the res wil sel the cen clo to the dat poi in exa the sam man as sta vec qua .
the , ica cou pot be imp usi em for gtm in the lim of zer
123 net int and reg
ear in the mod his of neu net , it was rea tha pca cou be imp usi a lin aut net ( bal & hor , 123 ) .
the dat are fed as bot the inp and tar of the net , and the net par are lea usi the squ err cos fun .
in thi sec , we sho how fac ana and mix of gau clu can als be imp in thi man , alb wit a dif cos fun .
to und how a pro mod can be lea usi an au - toe it is ver use to mak a rec - gen dec of the aut ( hin & zem , 123 hin , day , & rev , 123 ) .
an aut tak an inp y , pro som int rep in the hid lay x , and gen at its out a rec of the inp y in fig 123
we cal the map fro hid to out lay the gen par of the net sin it gen the dat fro a ( usu mor com ) rep und som noi mod .
con , we cal the map fro inp to hid uni the rec par of the net
a uni rev of lin gau mod
fig 123 : a net for sta inf and for lea par of a sta dat mod .
the inp y is cla to the inp uni ( bot ) , and the mea x of the pos of the est sta app on the hid uni abo .
the cov of the sta pos is con at i c whi is eas com if the wei are kno .
the inf com is a tri lin pro , but lea the wei of the inf net is dif .
the inp to hid wei are alw con to be a fun of the hid to out wei , and the net is tra as an aut usi sel - sup lea .
out wei hav onl bee dra fro one inp uni and one hid
sin it pro som rep in the hid var giv the in - put .
bec aut are usu ass to be det , we wil thi of the rec net as com the pos mea of the hid var giv the inp .
the gen mod for fac ana ass tha bot the hid sta and the obs are nor dis , fro whi we get the pos pro for the hid sta in equ 123 .
if we ass tha the gen wei mat fro the hid uni to the out is c and the noi mod at the out is gau wit cov r , the the pos mea of the hid var is x = y , whe = ct ( cct + r ) 123
the , the hid uni can com the pos mea exa if the are lin and the wei mat fro inp to hid uni is .
not tha is tie to c and r , so we onl nee to est c and r dur lea .
we den exp und the pos sta dis by ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) , for exa ,
xp ( x|y ) dx = x .
fro the the of the em alg ( see sec 123 ) , we kno tha one way to max the lik is to max the exp val of the log of the joi pro und the pos dis of the hid
( cid : 123 ) log p ( x , y|c , r ) ( cid : 123 ) .
sam row and zou gha
cha sig and ign con , we can equ min the fol cos fun : c = ( cid : 123 ) ( y cx ) tr = yt r = ( y cx ) tr
123 ( y cx ) ( cid : 123 ) + log 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) + ( cid : 123 ) xt ctr 123 ( y cx ) + log + tra ( ctr
123 ( cid : 123 ) + log
123 123 r
her we hav den to be the pos cov of x ,
( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) t = i c ,
and in the las ste we hav reo ter and mad use of the fac tha
123 ( cid : 123 ) = tra ( ctr
the rst two ter of cos fun in equ 123 are jus a squ err cos fun eva wit res to a gau noi mod wit cov r .
the are exa the ter min whe tti a sta neu net wit thi gau noi mod .
the las ter is a reg - iza ter tha acc for the pos var in the hid sta giv the inp . 123 whe we tak der of thi cos fun , we do not dif x and wit res to c and r .
as is usu for the em alg , we dif the cos giv the pos dis of the hid var .
tak der wit res to c and pre by r , we obt a wei cha rul ,
c ( y cx ) xt c .
the rst ter is the usu del rul .
the sec ter is sim a wei - dec ter dec the col of c wit res to the pos co - var of the hid var .
int , the hig the unc in a hid uni , the mor its out wei vec is shr tow zer .
to sum , fac ana can be imp in an aut by ty - ing the rec wei to the gen wei and usi a par reg in add to squ rec err dur lea .
we now ana the mix of gau mod in the sam man .
the rec net is mea to pro the mea of the hid var giv the inp .
sin we ass tha the dis hid var is rep - sen as a uni vec , its mea is jus the vec of pro of bei in eac of its k set giv the inp , tha is , the res .
ass equ mix coe , p ( x = ej ) = p ( x = ei ) ij , the res
hid sta has zer var ( 123 ) and the reg van ( ctr
123 pca ass inn noi , and the the pos dis ove the
a uni rev of lin gau mod
den in equ 123 are
( x ) j = p ( x = ej| ) =
i=1 exp ( 123 i=1 exp ( iy i ) , 123 and j = 123
( y ci ) tr1 ( y ci ) )
equ 123 whe we hav den j des a rec mod tha is lin fol by the sof non - ear , , wri in ful mat not : x = ( y ) .
in oth wor , a sim net cou do exa inf wit lin inp to hid wei and sof hid uni .
app aga to the em alg , we obt a cos fun tha whe min by an aut wil imp the mix of gau . 123 the log pro of the dat giv the hid var can be wri as 123 ( y cx ) + log + con .
123 log p ( y|x , c , r ) = ( y cx ) tr
c = ( y cx ) tr
usi thi and the pre der , we obt the cos fun ,
123 ( y cx ) + log + tra ( ctr
whe = ( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) t .
the sec - ord ter , ( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) , eva to a mat wit x alo its dia and zer els .
unl in fac ana , now dep on the inp .
to sum , the mix of gau mod can als be imp usi an aut .
the rec par of the net is lin , fol - low by a sof non .
the cos fun is the usu squ er - ror pen by a reg of exa the sam for as in fac ana .
sim net int can be obt for the oth pro
123 com and ext
the are sev adv , bot the and pra , to a uni tre of the uns met rev her .
fro a the vie , the tre emp tha all of the tec for inf - enc in the var mod are ess the sam and jus cor to pro pro in the par mod var .
sim , all the lea pro are not mor tha an app of the em
123 our der ass tie cov and equ mix coe .
sli mor
com equ res for the gen cas .
sam row and zou gha
alg to inc the tot lik of the obs dat ite .
fur , the ori of zer - noi - lim alg suc as vec qua - tiz and pca is eas to see .
a uni tre als hig the rel bet sim que acr the dif mod .
for ex - amp , pic the num of clu in a mix mod or sta dim in a dyn sys or the num of fac or pri com in a cov mod or the num of sta in an hmm are all rea the
fro a pra sta , a uni vie of the mod all us to app wel - kno sol to har pro in one are to sim pro - lem in ano .
for exa , in thi fra it is obv how to dea pro wit mis dat in sol bot the lea and inf pro - lem .
thi top has bee wel und for man sta mod ( lit & rub , 123 tre , ahm , & neu , 123 gha & jor , 123 ) but is typ not wel add in the lin dyn sys lit .
as ano exa , it is eas to des and wor wit mod hav a mix con - and dis - sta vec , ( for exa , hid lte hmm ( fra & dim , 123 ) , whi is som not dir add by the ind lit on dis or con mod .
ano pra adv is the eas wit whi nat ext to the bas mod can be dev .
for exa , usi the hie - cal mix - of - exp for dev by jor and jac ( 123 ) we can con glo mix of any of the mod var dis .
in fac , mos of the mix hav alr bee con : mix of lin dyn sys are kno as swi sta - spa mod ( see shu & sto , 123 gha & hin , 123 ) ; mix of fac ana ( gha and hin , 123 ) and of pan ( pca ) ( hin - ton et al . , 123 ) ; and mix of hmm ( smy , 123 ) .
a mix of m of our con mix of gau eac wit k clu giv a mix mod wit mk com in whi the are onl m pos cov mat .
thi tie cov app is pop in spe mod to red the num of fre par .
( for k = 123 , thi cor to a ful unc mix of gau mod wit m clu . )
it is als pos to con loc mix in whi the con is no lon a sin gau but a mor com den suc as a mix of gau .
for our ( con ) mix of gau mod , thi is ano way to get a ful mix .
for hmm , thi is a wel - kno ext and is usu the sta app for emi den mod ( rab & jua , 123 ) .
it is eve pos to use con mix mod as the out den mod for an hmm ( see , for exa , sau & rah , 123 , whi use fac ana as the hmm out den ) .
how , we are not awa of any wor tha con thi var in the con - sta cas , for eit sta or dyn dat .
ano imp nat ext is spa ada obs noi .
the ide her is tha the obs noi v can hav dif sta -
a uni rev of lin gau mod
tic in dif par of ( sta or obs ) spa rat tha bei de - scr by a sin mat r .
for dis - mix mod , thi ide is wel kno , and it is ach by giv eac mix com a pri noi mod .
how , for con - sta mod , thi ide is rel une - plo and is an int are for fur inv .
the cru of the pro is how to par a pos den mat ove som spa .
we pro som sim way to ach thi .
one pos is rep the sin cov sha q for the obs noi wit a con lin - ear ble of k bas cov sha .
in the cas of lin dyn sys or fac ana , thi amo to a nov typ of mod in whi the loc cov mat r is com as a con lin com of sev can cov mat thr a ten pro bet the cur sta vec x ( or equ the noi obs cx ) and a mas noi ten . 123 ano app wou be to dro the con res ( all gen lin com ) and the add a mul of the ide mat to the res noi mat in ord to mak it pos den .
a thi app is to rep the cov sha as the com - pre of an ela sph due to a spa var for eld .
thi rep - res is eas to wor wit bec the par of the eld is unc , but it is har to lea the loc eld fro mea of the eff cov sha .
bis ( 123 , sec .
123 ) and oth hav con sim non met for est inp - dep noi lev in reg pro .
gol , wil , and bis ( 123 ) hav exp thi ide in the con of gau pro .
it is als int to con wha hap to the dyn mod whe the out noi ten to zer .
in oth wor , wha are the dyn ana of pca and vec qua ? for bot lin dyn sys and hmm , thi cau the sta to no lon be hid .
in lin dyn sys , the opt obs mat is the fou by per pca on the dat and usi the pri com as the col of c; for hmm , c is fou by vec qua of the dat ( usi the cod vec as the col of c ) .
giv the obs mat , the sta is no lon hid .
all tha rem is to ide a rst - ord mar dyn in sta - spa : thi is a sim ar ( 123 ) mod in the con cas or a rst - ord mar cha in the dis cas .
suc zer - noi lim are not onl int mod in the own rig , but are als val as goo cho for ini of lea in lin dyn sys and hmm .
123 a con lin com is one in whi all the coe are pos .
123 for mix of gau or hid mar mod , thi kin of lin ble - ing mer sel the jth sub of the ten if the dis sta is ej .
thi is yet ano way to rec the con ful or unc mix of gau or hid mar mod emi den in whi eac clu or sta has its own pri cov sha for obs noi .
sam row and zou gha
in thi app we rev in det the inf and lea alg for eac of the mod .
the goa is to ena rea to imp the alg fro the pse pro .
for eac cla of mod , we rst pre the sol to the inf pro , and the the em alg for lea the mod par .
for thi app onl , we ado the , not xt .
we not tha the tra of a vec or mat is wri as x use t ins of to den the len of a tim ser .
we als den the bin ope ( cid : 123 ) to be the ele - wis pro of two equ - siz vec or mat .
com beg wit the sym % .
a . 123 fac ana , spc , and pca .
a . 123 inf .
for fac ana and rel mod , the pos pro of the hid sta giv the obs , p ( x|y ) , is gau - sia .
the inf pro the con of com the mea and cov of thi gau , x and v = cov ( x ) :
( cid : 123 ) + r ) 123
v i c ret x , v sin the obs noi mat r is ass to be dia and x is of sma dim tha y , can be mor efc com usi the mat inv lem : i c ( i + c
com the ( log ) lik of an obs is not mor tha an
eva und the gau n ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) + r
the sen pca ( spc ) alg is a spe cas of fac ana in whi the obs noi is ass to be sph sym : r = i .
inf in spc is the ide to inf for fac ana .
the tra pca alg can be obt as a lim cas of fac ana : r = lim i .
the inv use for com in fac ana is no lon wel den .
how , the lim of is wel den : = .
als , the pos col to a sin poi , so v = cov ( x ) = i c = 123
pca ( y , c ) % pro ont pri com
a uni rev of lin gau mod
a . 123 lea .
the em alg for lea the par of a fac - tor ana wit k fac fro a zer - mea dat set y = ( y12 , .
, yn ) ( eac col of the p n mat y is a dat poi ) is
ini c , r com sam cov s of y whi cha in log lik >
% e ste x , v fac ( y , c , r ) ( cid : 123 ) + nv % m ste set dia ele of r to rii ( s c
ret c , r
her fac ( y , c , r ) has the obv int - tat of the inf fun app to the ent mat of obs .
sin and v do not dep on y , thi can be com efc in mat for .
sin the dat app onl in out pro , we can run fac - tor ana lea wit jus the sam cov .
not als tha the ( cid : 123 ) + r| + con .
log - lik is com as 123 the em alg for spc is ide to the em alg for fac ana , exc tha sin the obs noi cov is sph
sym , the m - ste for r is cha to r i , whe ( cid : 123 ) p
( cid : 123 ) + r ) 123 + n
the em alg for pca can be obt in a sim man :
whi cha in squ rec err >
% e ste % m ste
sam row and zou gha
sin pca is not a pro mod ( it ass zer noi ) , the lik - hoo is und , so con is ass by mon the squ
a . 123 mix of gau and vec qua .
a . 123 inf .
we beg by dis the inf pro for mix - tur of gau and the dis the inf pro in vec qua - zat as a lim cas .
the hid var in a mix of gau is a dis var tha can tak on one of k val .
we rep thi var usi a vec x of len k , whe eac set of the hid var cor - res to x tak a val of uni in one dim and zer els .
the pro dis of the dis hid var , whi has k 123 deg of fre ( sin it mus sum to one ) , is ful des by the mea of x .
the , the inf pro is lim to com the pos mea of x giv a dat poi y and the mod par , whi are ( the pri mea of x ) , c ( the mat who k col are the mea of y giv eac of the k set of x ) and r ( the obs noi cov
mix ( y , c , r , ) % com for i = 123 to k i ( y ci ) ( cid : 123 )
a mea of the ran of the hid sta can be obt by eva the ent of the dis dis cor to x .
sta vq cor to the lim cas r = lim i and equ pri i = 123 / k .
inf in thi cas is per by the wel kno
vqi ( y , c ) % 123 - nea - nei for i = 123 to k
i ( y ci ) ( cid : 123 ) ( y ci ) end ej for j = arg min i
a uni rev of lin gau mod
as bef , ej is the uni vec alo the jth coo dir .
the squ dis i can be gen to a mah met wit res to som mat r , and non pri i can eas be inc .
as was the cas wit pca , the pos dis has zer ent .
a . 123 lea .
the em alg for lea the par of a mix -
tur of gau is :
mix ( y , k , ) % ml sof com lea
ini c , r , whi cha in log lik > ini 123 , 123 , 123 % e ste for i = 123 to n
% m ste for j = 123 to k for i = 123 to n
+ xij ( yi cj ) ( yi cj ) ( cid : 123 )
ret c , r ,
we hav ass a com cov mat r for all the gau the ext to dif cov for eac gau is str .
the k - mea vec qua lea alg res whe we
tak the app lim of the abo alg :
vql ( y , k , ) % k - mea
whi cha in squ rec err >
% e ste ini 123 , 123 for i = 123 to n
sam row and zou gha
% m ste for j = 123 to k
a . 123 lin dyn sys .
inf in a lin dyn sys inv com - put the pos dis of the hid sta var giv the seq of obs .
as in fac ana , all the hid sta var are ass gau and are the ful des by the mea and cov mat .
the alg for com the pos mea and cov con of two par : a for rec , whi use the ob - ser fro y12 to yt , kno as the kal lte ( kal , 123 ) , and a bac rec , whi use the obs fro yt to yt+ ( rau , 123 ) .
the com for and bac rec are kno as the kal or rau - tun - str ( rts ) smo .
t and vs
to des the smo alg it wil be use to den the fol - ing qua : xs t are , res , the mea and cov mat of xt giv obs ( y12 , .
ys ) ; xt xt t are the ful smo est .
to lea the a mat usi em , it is als nec to com the cov acr tim bet xt and xt1 :
t and vt vt
for t = 123 to t % kal lte ( for pas )
123 ) % kal smo
ini vt , t12 = ( i ktc ) avt for t = t to 123 % rau rec ( bac pas )
+ jt1 ( xt axt + jt1 ( vt vt1 + jt ( vt+ , t avt t12 if t < t
t12 if t > 123 ( cid : 123 ) + q if t > 123 ( cid : 123 ) + r ) 123 + kt ( yt cxt
a uni rev of lin gau mod
ret xt , vt , vt , t12 for all t
a . 123 lea .
the em alg for lea a lin dyn sys - tem ( shu & sto , 123 gha & hin , 123 ) is giv bel , ass for sim tha we hav onl a sin seq of obs :
ini a , c , q , r , x12
whi cha in log lik > ini 123 , 123 , 123 for t = 123 to t + vt , t12 if t > 123
123 ) % e ste
% m ste r ( c
ret a , c , q , r , x12
a . 123 hid mar mod .
a . 123 inf .
the for - bac alg com the pos - rio pro of the hid sta in an hmm and the for the bas of the inf req for em .
we use the fol sta de -
t = p ( xt , y12 ,
= p ( yt+ , .
, yt| ) ,
sam row and zou gha
whe bot and are vec of the sam len as x .
we pre the cas whe the obs yt are rea - val p - dim vec and the pro den of an obs giv the cor sta ( the out mod ) is ass to be a sin gau wit mea cxt and cov r .
the par of the mod are the a k k tra mat t , ini sta pri pro vec , an obs mea mat c , and an obs noi mat r tha is tie acr sta :
hmm ( y , t , , c , r ) % for alg for t = 123 to t % for pas
( cid : 123 ) |r| / 123 ( 123 ) p / 123
for i = 123 to k
if ( t = 123 ) t ( cid : 123 ) b12 els t ( t
for t = t 123 to 123 % bac pas
t12 ) ( cid : 123 ) bt end
t ( cid : 123 ) t
ret t , t , t for all t
the den of and in equ a . 123 and a . 123 cor to run the abo alg wit the sca fac t .
the fac , how , are ess to the num sta of the alg oth , for lon seq , bot and bec van sma .
fur , fro the s we can com the log - lik of the seq
log p ( y12 , .
, yt ) = t ( cid : 123 )
whi is why it is use for the abo fun to ret the .
a . 123 lea .
aga , we ass for sim tha we hav a sin seq of obs fro whi we wis to lea the par of an hmm .
the em alg for lea the par , kno as the
a uni rev of lin gau mod
bau - wel alg , is :
hmm ( y , k , ) % bau - wel
ini t , , c , r whi cha in log lik > hmm ( y , t , , c , r ) % e ste % m ste
( cid : 123 ) ti ( cid : 123 ) for all i , j t t , j for all j ( yt cj ) ( yt cj ) ( cid : 123 ) / t
ret t , , c , r
we tha car bro , san mah , and eri win for man fru dis in the ear sta , the ano ref for hel com - men , and geo hin and joh hop for pro out int env and gui .
was sup in par by the cen for neu sys eng as a par of the nat sci - enc fou eng res cen pro und gra eec - 123 and by the nat sci and eng res cou of can und an nse 123 awa .
was sup by the ont inf tec res cen .
