ins by goo set , we con the pro of ret ite fro a con or clu , giv a que con of a few ite fro tha clu .
we for thi as a bay inf pro and de - scr a ver sim alg for sol it .
our alg use a mod - bas con of a clu and ran ite usi a sco whi eva the mar pro tha eac ite bel to a clu con the que ite .
for exp fam mod wit con pri thi mar pro is a sim fun of suf sta .
we foc on spa bin dat and sho tha our sco can be eva ex - act usi a sin spa mat mul , mak it pos to app our alg to ver lar dat .
we eva our alg on thr dat : ret mov fro eac , ndi com of aut set fro the nip dat , and ndi com of set of wor app in the gro enc .
we com to goo set and sho tha bay set giv ver rea set com .
wha do jes and dar hav in com ? oth tha bei ass wit two dif vie on the ori of man , the als hav col at cam uni - sit nam aft the .
if the two nam are ent as a que int goo set ( htt : / / lab . goo . com / set ) it ret a lis of oth col at cam .
goo set is a rem use too whi enc a ver pra and int - ing pro in mac lea and inf ret . 123 con a uni of ite d .
dep on the app , the set d may con of web pag , mov , peo , wor , pro , ima , or any oth obj we may wis to for que on .
the use pro a que in the for of a ver sma sub of ite dc d .
the ass is tha the ele in dc are exa of som con / cla / clu in the dat .
the alg the has to pro a com to the set dct is , som set d12 c d whi pre inc all the ele in dc and oth ele in d whi are als in thi con / cla / clu
zg is als at cal , car mel uni , pit pa 123
123 set is a lar - sca clu alg tha use man mil of dat ins ext fro web dat ( sim ton , per com ) .
we are una to des any det of how the alg wor due its pro nat .
123 her on , we wil use the ter clu to ref to the tar con .
we can vie thi pro fro sev per .
fir , the que can be int as ele of som unk clu , and the out of the alg is the com of tha clu .
whe mos clu alg are com uns , her the que pro sup hin or con as to the mem of a par clu .
we cal thi vie clu on dem , sin it inv for a clu onc som ele of tha clu hav bee rev .
an imp adv of thi app ove tra clu is tha the few ele in the que can giv use inf as to the fea whi are rel for for the clu .
for exa , the que bus , nix , rea sug tha the fea rep and us pre are rel to the clu , whi the que bus , put , bla sug tha cur and wor lea are rel .
giv the hug num of fea in man rea wor dat set , suc hin as to fea rel can pro muc mor sen clu .
sec , we can thi of the goa of the alg to be to sol a par inf re - tri pro ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
as in oth ret pro , the out sho be rel to the que , and it mak sen to lim the out to the top few ite ran by rel to the que .
in our exp , we tak thi app and rep ite ran by rel .
our rel cri is clo rel to a bay fra for und pat of gen in hum cog ( 123 ) .
123 bay set let d be a dat set of ite , and x d be an ite fro thi set .
ass the use pro a que set dc whi is a sma sub of d .
our goa is to ran the ele of d by how wel the wou t int a set whi inc dc .
int , the tas is cle : if the set d is the set of all mov , and the que set con of two ani dis mov , we exp oth ani dis mov to be ran hig .
we use a mod - bas pro cri to mea how wel ite t int dc .
hav obs dc as bel to som con , we wan to kno how pro it is tha x als bel wit dc .
thi is mea by p ( x|d ) .
ran ite sim by thi pro is not sen sin som ite may be mor pro tha oth , reg of dc .
for exa , und mos sen mod , the pro of a str dec wit the num of cha , the pro of an ima dec wit the num of pix , and the pro of any con var dec wit the pre to whi it is mea .
we wan to rem the eff , so we com the rat :
sco ( x ) = p ( x|d )
whe the den is the pri pro of x and und mos sen mod wil sca exa cor wit num of pix , cha , dis lev , etc .
usi bay rul , thi sco can be re - wri as :
sco ( x ) = p ( x , dc )
whi can be int as the rat of the joi pro of obs x and dc , to the pro of ind obs x and dc .
int , thi rat com the pro - abi tha x and dc wer gen by the sam mod wit the sam , tho unk , par , to the pro tha x and dc cam fro mod wit dif par and 123 ( see gur 123 ) .
fin , up to a mul con ind of x , the sco can be wri as : sco ( x ) = p ( dc| ) , whi is the pro of obs the que set giv x ( i . e .
the lik of x ) .
fro the abo dis , it is sti not cle how one wou com qua suc as p ( x|d ) and p ( x ) .
a nat mod - bas way of den a clu is to ass tha
fig 123 : our bay sco com the hyp tha the dat was gen by eac of the abo gra mod .
the dat poi in the clu all com ind and ide dis fro som sim par sta mod .
ass tha the par mod is p ( x| ) whe are the par .
if the dat poi in dc all bel to one clu , the und thi den the wer gen fro the sam set of the par how , tha set is unk , so we nee to ave ove pos par val wei by som pri den on par val , p ( ) .
usi the con and the bas rul of pro we arr at :
p ( x| ) p ( ) d
p ( xi| ) p ( ) d
p ( x| ) p ( |dc ) d
p ( |dc ) = p ( dc| ) p ( )
we are now ful equ to des the bay set alg :
bay set alg
x d , a pri on the mod par p ( )
bac : a set of ite d , a pro mod p ( x| ) whe inp : a que dc = ( xi ) d for all x d do
sco ( x ) = p ( x|d )
out : ret ele of d sor by dec sco
we men two pro of thi alg to ass two com wor wit bay met and sen to pri :
for the sim mod we wil con , the int ( 123 ) - ( 123 ) are ana .
in fac , for the mod we con in sec 123 com all the sco can be red to a sin spa mat mul .
alt it cle mak sen to put som tho int cho sen mod - els p ( x| ) and pri p ( ) , we wil sho in 123 tha eve wit ver sim mod and alm no tun of the pri one can get ver com ret res .
in pra , we use a sim emp heu whi set the pri to be vag but cen on the mea of the dat in d .
123 spa bin dat
we now der in mor det the app of the bay set alg to spa bin dat .
thi typ of dat is a ver nat rep for the lar dat we use in our eva ( sec 123 ) .
app of bay set to oth for of dat ( rea - val , dis , ord , str ) are als pos , and esp pra if the sta mod is a mem of the exp fam ( sec 123 ) .
ass eac ite xi dc is a bin vec xi = ( xi1 , .
, xij ) whe xij ( 123 , 123 ) , and tha eac ele of xi has an ind ber dis :
the con pri for the par of a ber dis is the bet dis :
p ( | , ) =
( j + j )
whe and are hyp , and the gam fun is a gen of the fac fun .
for a que dc = ( xi ) con of n vec it is eas to sho tha :
p ( dc| , ) =y i=1 xij and j = j + n pn
( j + j )
whe j = j +pn
( j + j )
i=1 xij .
for an ite x = ( x12
the sco , wri wit the hyp exp , can be com as fol : ( j +xj ) ( j +12 )
( j +j +n )
sco ( x ) = p ( x|d , , )
( j +j +n +12 )
( j +j )
( j +j +12 )
( j ) ( j )
( j +xj ) ( j +12 )
( j ) ( j )
thi dau exp can be dra sim .
we use the fac tha ( x ) = ( x 123 ) ( x 123 ) for x > 123
for eac j we can con the two cas xj = 123 and xj = 123 and sep .
for xj = 123 we hav a con .
for xj = 123 we hav a con j +j
put the tog we get :
j +j +n
j +j +n
log sco ( x ) = c +x
j + j + n
the log of the sco is lin in x :
log ( j + j ) log ( j + j + n ) + log j log j
if we put the ent dat set d int one lar mat x wit j col , we can com the vec s of log sco for all poi usi a sin mat vec mul
qj = log j log j log j + log j
for spa dat set thi lin ope can be imp ver efc .
eac que dc cor to com the vec q and sca c .
thi can als be don efc if the que is als spa , sin mos ele of q wil equ log j log ( j + n ) whi is ind of the que .
s = c + xq
123 exp fam
we gen the abo res to mod in the exp fam .
the dis for suc mod can be wri in the for p ( x| ) = f ( x ) g ( ) exp ( >u ( x ) ) , whe u ( x ) is a k - dim vec of suf sta , are the nat par , and f and g are non - neg fun .
the con pri is p ( | , ) = h ( , ) g ( ) exp ( > ) , whe and are hyp , and h nor the dis .
giv a que dc = ( xi ) wit n ite , and a can x , it is not har to sho tha the sco for the can is :
sco ( x ) = h ( + 123 , + u ( x ) ) h ( + n , +p h ( , ) h ( + n + 123 , + u ( x ) +p
thi exp hel us und whe the sco can be com efc .
fir of all , the sco onl dep on the siz of the que ( n ) , the suf sta com fro eac can , and fro the who que .
it the mak sen to pre u , a mat of suf sta cor to x .
sec , whe the sco is a lin ope on u dep on whe log h is lin in the sec arg .
thi is the cas for the ber dis , but not for all exp fam dis .
how , for man dis , suc as dia cov gau , eve tho the sco is non in u , it can be com by app the non ele to u .
for spa mat , the sco can the sti be com in tim lin in the num of non - zer ele of u .
we ran our bay set alg on thr dif dat : the gro enc - ped dat , con of the tex of the art in the enc , the eac dat , con of mov rat by use of the eac ser , and the nip au - tho dat , con of the tex of art pub in nip vol 123 - 123 ( spa the 123 - 123 con ) .
the gro dat is 123 art by 123 wor , whe the ent are the num of tim eac wor app in eac doc .
we pre ( bin ) the dat by col nor eac wor , and the thr so tha a ( ar - tic , wor ) ent is 123 if tha wor has a fre of mor tha twi the art mea .
we do ess no tun of the hyp .
we use bro emp pri , whe = cm , = c ( 123 ) whe m is a mea vec ove all art , and c = 123
the ana pri are use for bot oth dat .
the eac dat was pre , rst by rem mov rat by les tha 123 peo , and peo who rat les tha 123 mov .
the the dat was bin so tha a ( per , mov ) ent had val 123 if the per gav the mov a rat abo 123 sta ( fro a pos 123 - 123 sta ) .
the dat was the col nor to acc for ove mov pop .
the siz of the dat aft pre was 123 peo by 123 mov .
fin the nip aut dat ( 123 wor by 123 aut ) , was pre ver sim to the gro dat .
it was bin by col nor eac aut , and the thr so tha a ( wor , aut ) ent is 123 if the aut use tha wor mor fre - que tha twi the wor mea acr all aut .
the res of our exp , and com wit goo set for wor and mov que are giv in tab 123 and 123
unf , nip aut hav not yet ach the kin of pop on the web nec for goo set to wor eff .
ins we lis the top wor ass wit the clu of aut giv by our alg ( tab 123 ) .
the run tim of our alg on all thr dat are giv in tab 123
all exp - men wer run in mat on a 123 pen 123 , tos lap .
our alg is ver fas bot at pre - pro the dat , and ans que ( abo 123 sec per que ) .
tab 123 : for eac dat we giv the siz of tha dat alo wit the tim tak to do the ( one - tim ) pre and the tim tak to mak a que ( bot in sec ) .
que : war , sol
que : fis , wat , cor
tab 123 : clu of wor fou by goo set and bay set bas on the giv que .
the top few are sho for eac que and eac alg .
bay set was run usi gro
it is ver dif to obj eva our res sin the is no gro tru for thi tas .
one per ide of a goo que clu may dif dra fro ano per .
we cho to com our alg to goo set sin it was our mai ins and it is cur the mos pub and com use alg for per thi tas .
sin we do not hav acc to the goo set alg it was imp for us to run the met on our dat .
mor , goo set rel on vas amo of web dat , whi we do not hav .
des tho two imp cav , goo set cle kno a lot abo mov and wor , and the com to bay set is inf .
we fou tha goo set per ver wel whe the que con of ite whi can be fou lis on the web ( e . g .
cam col ) .
on the oth han , for mor abs con ( e . g .
sol and war , see tab 123 ) our alg ret mor whi we bel tha mos of our res are sel - exp , the are a few det tha we wou lik to ela on .
the top que in tab 123 con of two cla rom mov ,
123 fac , one of the exa que on the goo set web is a que of mov tit .
que : gon wit the win , cas
gon wit the win ( 123 )
ern sav chr ( 123 )
cit kan ( 123 ) pet det ( 123 )
wiz of oz ( 123 ) the god ( 123 )
law of ara ( 123 ) on the wat ( 123 ) que : mar pop , toy sto
gon wit the win ( 123 )
the afr que ( 123 )
the phi sto ( 123 )
my fai lad ( 123 )
the adv of rob hoo ( 123 )
the mal fal ( 123 )
sin in the rai ( 123 )
it hap one nig ( 123 )
que : cut isl , las act her
toy sto 123
the fas and the fur
win the poo
the lov bug
las act her
end of day
bed and bro
the col of nig
but im a che
the par tra
who fra rog rab
the sou of mus
add fam i add fam ii
las act her
kul the con vam in bro
vil of the dam
tab 123 : clu of mov fou by goo set and bay set bas on the giv que .
the top 123 are sho for eac que and eac alg .
bay set was run usi the eac
and whi mos of the mov ret by bay set are als cla rom , har any of the mov ret by goo set are rom , and it wou be dif to cal ern sav chr eit a rom or a cla .
bot cut isl and las act her are act mov ops , as are man of the mov giv by our alg for tha que .
all the bay set mov ass wit the que mar pop and toy sto are chi mov , whi 123 of goo set mov are not .
but im a che , whi app to be a chi mov , is act an r rat mov inv les and gay tee .
que : a . smo , b . sch
que : l . sau , t . jaa
que : a . ng , r . sut
tab 123 : nip aut fou by bay set bas on the giv que .
the top 123 are sho for eac que alo wit the top 123 wor ass wit tha clu of aut .
bay set was run usi nip dat fro vol 123 - 123 ( 123 - 123 con ) .
the nip aut dat is rat sma , and co - aut of nip pap app ver sim to eac oth .
the , man of the aut fou by our alg are co - aut of a nip pap wit one or mor of the que aut .
an exa whe thi is not the cas is wim wie , who we do not bel eve pub a nip pap wit law sau or tom jaa , tho he did hav a nip pap on var lea and gra
as par of the eva of our alg , we sho 123 nav sub the unl res of bay set and goo set for the que sho fro the eac and gro enc dat , and ask the to cho whi the pre .
the res of thi stu are giv in tab 123
gon wit the win
% bay set
tab 123 : for eac eva que ( lis by rst que ite ) , we giv the per of re - spo who pre the res giv by bay set and the p - val rej the nul hyp tha goo set is pre to bay set on tha par que .
