we describe a probabilistic approach to the task of placing objects , de - scribed by high - dimensional vectors or by pairwise dissimilarities , in a low - dimensional space in a way that preserves neighbor identities .
a gaussian is centered on each object in the high - dimensional space and the densities under this gaussian ( or the given dissimilarities ) are used to dene a probability distribution over all the potential neighbors of the object .
the aim of the embedding is to approximate this distribu - tion as well as possible when the same operation is performed on the low - dimensional images of the objects .
a natural cost function is a sum of kullback - leibler divergences , one per object , which leads to a simple gradient for adjusting the positions of the low - dimensional im - ages .
unlike other dimensionality reduction methods , this probabilistic framework makes it easy to represent each object by a mixture of widely separated low - dimensional images .
this allows ambiguous objects , like the document count vector for the word bank , to have versions close to the images of both river and nance without forcing the images of outdoor concepts to be located close to those of corporate concepts .
automatic dimensionality reduction is an important toolkit operation in machine learn - ing , both as a preprocessing step for other algorithms ( e . g .
to reduce classier input size ) and as a goal in itself for visualization , interpolation , compression , etc .
there are many ways to embed objects , described by high - dimensional vectors or by pairwise dissim - ilarities , into a lower - dimensional space .
multidimensional scaling methods ( 123 ) preserve dissimilarities between items , as measured either by euclidean distance , some nonlinear squashing of distances , or shortest graph paths as with isomap ( 123 , 123 ) .
principal compo - nents analysis ( pca ) nds a linear projection of the original data which captures as much variance as possible .
other methods attempt to preserve local geometry ( e . g .
lle ( 123 ) ) or associate high - dimensional points with a xed grid of points in the low - dimensional space ( e . g .
self - organizing maps ( 123 ) or their probabilistic extension gtm ( 123 ) ) .
all of these meth - ods , however , require each high - dimensional object to be associated with only a single location in the low - dimensional space .
this makes it difcult to unfold many - to - one mappings in which a single ambiguous object really belongs in several disparate locations in the low - dimensional space .
in this paper we dene a new notion of embedding based on probable neighbors .
our algorithm , stochastic neighbor embedding ( sne ) tries to place the objects in a low - dimensional space so as to optimally preserve neighborhood identity , and can be naturally extended to allow multiple different low - d images of each object .
123 the basic sne algorithm
symmetric ) , or they may be computed using the scaled squared euclidean distance ( afn -
, may be given as part of the problem denition ( and need not be
for each object , , and each potential neighbor , , we start by computing the asymmetric probability , , that would pick as its neighbor :
ity ) between two high - dimensional points , ! " $#$ ! for the value of ) ( which we set without loss of generality to be / picks point as its neighbor is a function of the low - dimensional images 123 of all the
that makes the entropy of the distribution over neighbors equal to* ' + , . -
) so the induced probability 123
in the low - dimensional space we also use gaussian neighborhoods but with a xed variance
is either set by hand or ( as in some of our experiments ) found by a binary search
is the effective number of local neighbors or perplexity and is chosen by hand .
the aim of the embedding is to match these two distributions as well as possible .
this is achieved by minimizing a cost function which is a sum of kullback - leibler divergences
objects and is given by the expression :
space is chosen by hand ( much less than the number of objects ) .
between the original ( 123 ) and induced ( 123 ) distributions over neighbors for each object : the dimensionality of the123 notice that making123
is small wastes some of the probability mass in the123
distribution so there is a cost for modeling a big distance in the high - dimensional space with a small distance in the low - dimensional space , though it is less than the cost of modeling a small distance with a big one .
in this respect , sne is an improvement over methods like lle ( 123 ) or som ( 123 ) in which widely separated data - points can be collapsed as near neighbors in the low - dimensional space .
the intuition is that while sne emphasizes local distances , its cost function cleanly enforces both keeping the images of nearby objects nearby and keeping the images of widely separated objects relatively far apart .
the result is simple :
differentiating c is tedious because123
via the normalization term in eq .
123 , but which has the nice interpretation of a sum of forces pulling123 " toward123 or pushing it away depending on whether given the gradient , there are many possible ways to minimize123
and we have only just be - gun the search for the best method .
steepest descent in which all of the points are adjusted in parallel is inefcient and can get stuck in poor local optima .
adding random jitter that decreases with time nds much better local optima and is the method we used for the exam - ples in this paper , even though it is still quite slow .
we initialize the embedding by putting all the low - dimensional images in random locations very close to the origin .
several other minimization methods , including annealing the perplexity , are discussed in sections 123&123
is observed to be a neighbor more or less often than desired .
123 application of sne to image and document collections as a graphic illustration of the ability of sne to model high - dimensional , near - neighbor relationships using only two dimensions , we ran the algorithm on a collection of bitmaps of handwritten digits and on a set of word - author counts taken from the scanned proceedings of nips conference papers .
both of these datasets are likely to have intrinsic structure in many fewer dimensions than their raw dimensionalities : 123 for the handwritten digits and 123 for the author - word counts .
from each of the ve classes 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123
the variance of the gaussian around each point
to begin , we used a set of digit bitmaps from the ups database ( 123 ) with examples in the ( - dimensional raw pixel image space was set to achieve a perplexity of 123 in the distribution over high - dimensional neighbors .
sne was initialized by putting all the 123 "
in random locations very close to the origin and then was trained using gradient descent with annealed noise .
although sne was given no information about class labels , it quite cleanly separates the digit groups as shown in gure 123
furthermore , within each region of the low - dimensional space , sne has arranged the data so that properties like orientation , skew and stroke - thickness tend to vary smoothly .
for the embedding shown , the sne
cost function in eq .
123 has a value of nats; with a uniform distribution across low - nats .
we also applied dimensional neighbors , the cost is
principal component analysis ( pca ) ( 123 ) to the same data; the projection onto the rst two principal components does not separate classes nearly as cleanly as sne because pca is much more interested in getting the large separations right which causes it to jumble up some of the boundaries between similar classes .
in this experiment , we used digit classes that do not have very similar pairs like 123 and 123 or 123 and 123
when there are more classes and only two available dimensions , sne does not as cleanly separate very similar pairs .
we have also applied sne to word - document and word - author matrices calculated from the ocred text of nips volume 123 - 123 papers ( 123 ) .
figure 123 shows a map locating nips au - thors into two dimensions .
each of the 123 authors who published more than one paper
and corresponding last names are authors who published six or more papers in that period .
word counts , summed across all nips papers .
co - authored papers gave fractional counts evenly to all authors .
all words occurring in six or more documents were included , ex - cept for stopwords giving a vocabulary size of 123
( the bow toolkit ( 123 ) was used for
in nips vols .
123 - 123 is shown by a dot at the position 123 part of the pre - processing of the data . ) the )
found by sne; larger red dots were computed as the norm of the difference between log aggregate author were set to achieve a local perplexity of ( neighbors .
sne seems to have grouped authors by broad nips eld : generative
models , support vector machines , neuroscience , reinforcement learning and vlsi all have distinguishable localized regions .
123 a full mixture version of sne the clean probabilistic formulation of sne makes it easy to modify the cost function so that instead of a single image , each high - dimensional object can have several different versions of its low - dimensional image .
these alternative versions have mixing proportions
is a mixture of the distributions induced
that sum to .
image - version of object has location123 low - dimensional neighborhood distribution for by each of its image - versions across all image - versions of a potential neighbor :
and mixing proportion123
in this multiple - image model , the derivatives with respect to the image locations 123 are straightforward; the derivatives w . r . t the mixing proportions are most easily expressed
figure 123 : embedding of nips authors into two dimensions .
each of the 123 authors who published more than one paper in nips vols .
123 - 123 is show by a dot at the lo - found by the sne algorithm .
larger red dots and corresponding last names are authors who published six or more papers in that period .
the inset in upper left shows a blowup of the crowded boxed central portion of the space .
dissimilarities be - tween authors were computed based on squared euclidean distance between vectors of log aggregate author word counts .
co - authored papers gave fractional counts evenly to all authors .
all words occurring in six or more documents were included , except for stopwords giving a vocabulary size of 123
the nips text data is available at
is given by
in terms of , the probability that version of picks version of : the effect on123 of changing the mixing proportion for version of object on the cost , c , is
and otherwise .
the effect of changing
optimization on softmax weights dened by
as a proof - of - concept , we recently implemented a simplied mixture version in which every object is represented in the low - dimensional space by exactly two components that
rather than optimizing the mixing proportions directly , it is easier to perform unconstrained
by a force which increases linearly up to a threshold separation .
beyond this threshold the force remains constant . 123 we ran two experiments with this simplied mixture version
the classes and taking each pixel at random from one of these two parents .
after mini - of the non - hybrids had signicantly different locations for their two mixture components .
moreover , the mixture components of each hybrid always lay in the regions of the space devoted to the classes of its two parents and
the two components are pulled together of sne .
we took a dataset containing pictures of each of the digits 123 , 123 , 123 and added
hybrid digit - pictures that were each constructed by picking new examples of two of
are constrained to have mixing proportions of of the hybrids and only
in dening the local neighborhoods , a step size of for each position update of gradient , and used a constant jitter of
makes it possible to map a circle onto a line without losing any near neighbor relationships or introducing any new ones .
points near one cut point on the circle can mapped to a mixture of two points , one near one end of the line and one near the other end .
obviously , the location of the cut on the two - dimensional circle gets decided by which pairs of mixture components split rst during the stochastic optimization .
for certain optimization param - eters that control the ease with which two mixture components can be pulled apart , only a single cut in the circle is made .
for other parameter settings , however , the circle may fragment into two or more smaller line - segments , each of which is topologically correct but which may not be linked to each other .
never in the region devoted to the third class .
for this example we used a perplexity of .
our very simple mixture version of sne also
the example with hybrid digits demonstrates that even the most primitive mixture version of sne can deal with ambiguous high - dimensional objects that need to be mapped to two widely separated regions of the low - dimensional space .
more work needs to be done before sne is efcient enough to cope with large matrices of document - word counts , but it is the only dimensionality reduction method we know of that promises to treat homonyms sensibly without going back to the original documents to disambiguate each occurrence of
123we used a threshold of
at threshold the force was
space has a natural scale because the variance of the gaussian used to determine
nats per unit length .
the low - d is x ed at 123 .
123 practical optimization strategies our current method of reducing the sne cost is to use steepest descent with added jitter that is slowly reduced .
this produces quite good embeddings , which demonstrates that the sne cost function is worth minimizing , but it takes several hours to nd a good embedding
the time per iteration could be reduced considerably by ignoring pairs of points for which is xed during the learning , it is natural to sparsify it by replacing all entries below a certain threshold with zero and renor -
for just datapoints so we clearly need a better search algorithm .
all four of g are small .
since the matrix
malizing .
then pairsh# for which both123 andfg are zero can be ignored from gradient calculations if both 123 g are small .
this can in turn be determined in logarithmic as k - d trees , ball - trees and ad - trees , since the 123 depend only on
putational physics has attacked exactly this same complexity when performing multibody gravitational or electrostatic simulations using , for example , the fast multipole method .
time in the size of the training set by using sophisticated geometric data structures such
in the mixture version of sne there appears to be an interesting way of avoiding local optima that does not involve annealing the jitter .
consider two components in the mixture for an object that are far apart in the low - dimensional space .
by raising the mixing propor - tion of one and lowering the mixing proportion of the other , we can move probability mass from one part of the space to another without it ever appearing at intermediate locations .
this type of probability wormhole seems like a good way to avoid local optima that arise because a cluster of low - dimensional points must move through a bad region of the space in order to reach a better one .
yet another search method , which we have used with some success on toy problems , is to provide extra dimensions in the low - dimensional space but to penalize non - zero values on these dimensions .
during the search , sne will use the extra dimensions to go around lower - dimensional barriers but as the penalty on using these dimensions is increased , they will cease to be used , effectively constraining the embedding to the original dimensionality .
123 discussion and conclusions preliminary experiments show that we can nd good optima by rst annealing the perplex - ( using high jitter ) and only reducing the jitter after the nal perplexity has been
sian centered on each high - dimensional point is very big so that the distribution across neighbors is almost uniform .
it is clear that in the high variance limit , the contribution of to the sne cost function is just as important for distant neighbors as for is very large , it can be shown that sne is equivalent to minimizing the mismatch between squared distances in the two spaces , provided all the squared distances
reached .
this raises the question of what sne is doing when the variance , ) close ones .
when ) from an object are rst normalized by subtracting off their antigeometric mean ,
, of the gaus -
is the number of objects .
this mismatch is very similar to stress functions used in nonmetric versions of mds , and enables us to understand the large - variance limit of sne as a particular variant of such procedures .
we are still investigating the relationship to metric mds and to pca .
sne can also be seen as an interesting special case of linear relational embedding ( lre ) in lre the data consists of triples ( e . g .
colin has - mother victoria ) and the task is to predict the third term from the other two .
lre learns an n - dimensional vector for each object and an nxn - dimensional matrix for each relation .
to predict the third term in a triple , lre multiplies the vector representing the rst term by the matrix representing the relationship and uses the resulting vector as the mean of a gaussian .
its predictive distribution for the third term is then determined by the relative densities of all known objects under this gaussian .
sne is just a degenerate version of lre in which the only relationship is near and the matrix representing this relationship is the identity .
in summary , we have presented a new criterion , stochastic neighbor embedding , for map - ping high - dimensional points into a low - dimensional space based on stochastic selection of similar neighbors .
unlike self - organizing maps , in which the low - dimensional coor - dinates are xed to a grid and the high - dimensional ends are free to move , in sne the high - dimensional coordinates are xed to the data and the low - dimensional points move .
our method can also be applied to arbitrary pairwise dissimilarities between objects if such are available instead of ( or in addition to ) high - dimensional observations .
the gradient of the sne cost function has an appealing push - pull property in which the forces acting on
123 to bring it closer to points it is under - selecting and further from points it is over - selecting
as its neighbor .
we have shown results of applying this algorithm to image and document collections for which it sensibly placed similar objects nearby in a low - dimensional space while keeping dissimilar objects well separated .
most importantly , because of its probabilistic formulation , sne has the ability to be ex - tended to mixtures in which ambiguous high - dimensional objects ( such as the word bank ) can have several widely - separated images in the low - dimensional space .
acknowledgments we thank the anonymous referees and several visitors to our poster for helpful suggestions .
yann lecun provided digit and nips text data .
this research was funded by nserc .
