abstract .
the assumption that acquired character istics are not in ( cid : 123 ) herited is ofte n taken to imply that the adaptations t hat an organism learns during its lifetime cannot guide the course of evolut ion .
this inference is incor rec t ( 123 ) .
learning alt ers the shape of the search space in which evolu tio n operates and thereby pro vides good evolut ion ar y paths towa rds sets of co - adapted alleles .
we demonst r at e that th is effect allows learning organisms to evolve much faster than their 123 ( cid : 123 ) learning equivalents , even though the characteris tics acquired by the phenotype are not communicated to the genotype .
many organ isms learn useful a daptations during t heir lifetime .
t hese ad ap ( cid : 123 ) tations are often the resu lt of an exploratory search which tries out m any possi biliti es in or der t o d iscover good so lut ions .
it seems very wastefu l not to m ak e use of the exploration per for med by t he p henotype to facilitat e the evo lu t ionary search for go od genotypes .
t he obvious way to achieve this is to t r ansfer inform ati on about the acqui re d characteristics back to t he genotype .
most biologists now accept that the lam arcki an hypothesis is not su bstantiated; some then in fer that learn in g cannot guide t he evo ( cid : 123 ) lutionary search .
we use a s imple combinatorial argument to show that this inference is incorrect and t hat learn ing can be very effective in guid ( cid : 123 ) ing the search , even when t he specific adaptations t hat are learned are not commun icated to the genotype .
in d ifficu lt evolutionary searches which re quire many possibilities to b e tested in order to di scover a complex co ( cid : 123 ) a daptation , we dem on st r at e that each learnin g trial can b e almost as helpful t o the evolutionary search as t he p ro duct ion and evalu ation of a whole new organism .
t h is greatly increas es t he efficiency of evolution because a learn ( cid : 123 ) in g trial is m uc h fas ter an d requ ir es much less expen d iture of energy t han t he pr oduction of a wh ole organism .
learnin g can p rovide an easy evo lu t ionary path towards co - adapted al ( cid : 123 ) leles in environments t hat hav ~ n o goo d evolutionary p ath for non - learning organisms .
t h is type of interact ion between learning and evo lu t ion was
123 complex systems p ublications , inc .
geoffrey e .
hinton and steven j .
nowlan
first proposed hy baldwin 123 and lloyd morgan ( 123and is sometimes ca lled the baldwin effect .
wadd ington 123 proposed a similar type of interaction bet ween developmental processes and evolut ion and called it " canalization " or " genet ic assimilation " .
so far as we can t ell , there have been no com ( cid : 123 ) puter simulat ions or analyses of the combinatorics that demonstrate the magnitu de of the effect .
an ex t r em e and simple exa m p le
baldwinism is best understood by considering an extreme ( and unrea listic ) case in which t he combinatorics are very clear .
imagine an organ ism t hat contains a neural net in which there are many pot enti al conn ecti ons .
sup ( cid : 123 ) pose that t he ne t only con fers added reproductive fitn ess on the organism if it is connec te d in exactly the right way .
in this wors t case , there is no reasonable evolut ionary path towards the goo d net and a p ure evolution ( cid : 123 ) ary search can on ly discover wh ich of the potential connections sho uld be pr esent by trying possibilities at ran dom .
t he good net is like a needle in
the evolutionary search space becomes much better if the geno type sp ecifies some of the decisions about where to put connections , but leaves other decisions to learning .
this has the effect of constructing a large zone of increased fitn ess around the good net .
whenever the genetically sp ecified decisions are correct , the genotype fa lls wit hin this zone and will have increased fitness because learning will stand a chance of discovering how to make the remaining decisions so as to produce the good net .
this makes the evolutionary search much easier .
it is like searching for aneedle in a haystack when someone te lls you when you are getting close .
t he central point of the argu ment is that the person wh o tells you that you are gett ing close do es not need to tell you anything more .
a sim u lat ion
we have simulated a simple example of th is kind of interacti on between learning and evolution .
the neural net has 123 potential connections , and the genotype has 123 genes " , each of wh ich has three alte rnative forms ( a l ( cid : 123 ) leles ) called 123 , 123 , and ? the 123 allele specifies that a connection should he present , a specifies that it should be absent , and ? specifies a connection containing a switch which can be open or closed .
it is left to learning to decide how the switches sho uld be set .
we assume , for simplicity , a learning mechanism that simply tries a ran dom combination of switch settings on it the combination of the switch settings and the genetically specified dec isions ever produce the one good net we assume that the switch
123 we assume , for simplicity , that each po tent ial connection is controlled by its own gene .
naturally , we do not be lieve that th e relati onshi p between genes and con nections is
how learning can guide evolution
settings are frozen .
otherwise they keep changing . ?
the evolutionary search is modeled with a version of the genetic al ( cid : 123 ) gorithm proposed by holland 123j .
figure 123 shows how learning alters the shape of the search space in which evolution operates .
figure 123 shows what happens to the relative frequencies of th e correct , incorrect , and ? alleles during a typical evolutionary search in which each organism runs many learning trials during its lifetime .
notice that the total number of organ ( cid : 123 ) isms produced is far less than the 123 ' that would be expected to find the good net by a pure evolutionary search .
one interesting feature of figure 123 is that there is very little selective pressure in favor of genetically sp ecifying the last few potential connections , because a few learning trials is almost always sufficient to learn the correct settings of just a few switches .
the same problem was never solved by an evolutionary search without learning .
this was not a surprising result; the problem was selected to be extremely difficult for an evolutionary search , which relies on the exploita ( cid : 123 ) tion of small co - adapted sets of alleles to prov ide a better than random search of the space .
the spike of fitness in our example ( figure 123 ) means that the only co - adaptation that confers improved fitn ess requires simulta ( cid : 123 ) neous co - adaptation of all 123 genes .
even if this co - adaptation is discovered , it is not easily passed to descendants .
if an adapted individual mates with any individual other than one nearly identical to itself , the co - adaptation will probably be destroyed .
the crux of the problem is that only the one good genotype is distinguished , an d fitness is the only criterion for mate select ion .
to preserve t he co - adaptat ion from generation to generation it to give rise to at least is necessary for each good genotype , on average , if the dispersal of complex one good descend ant in the next generation .
co - adaptations due to mating causes each good genotype to have less t han one expected good descenda nt in the next generation , t he co - adaptation will not spread , even if it is discovered many t imes .
in our example , the ex ( cid : 123 ) pected number of good immediate descend ants of a good genotype is below 123 wit hout learning and above 123 with learning .
discussion
the most common argument in favor of learning is that some aspects of the env ironment are unpredictable , so it is pos it ively advantageous to leave some decis ions to learning rather than specifying them genetically ( e . g .
harley 123 ) .
this argument is clearly correct and is one good reason for having a learning mechanism , but it is different from th e baldwin effect which applies to complex co - adaptations to predictable aspects of th e en ( cid : 123 )
123t his implicitly assumes that t he organism can " recognise " when it bas achieved t he good net .
this recognition ability ( or an ability to tell when th e switch sett ings have been improved ) is required to make learning effective and so it must precede the baldwin effect .
thus , it is possible that some properties of an organism which are curre ntl y genetically specified were once behavioral goals of the organism ' s ancest ors .
geoffrey e .
hinton and steven j .
nowlan
zone of increased fitness
combinations of alleles
figure 123 : the evolution of the relative frequencies of the three possible types of allele .
there are 123 organisms in each generation .
and each organism performs 123 learning trials during its lifetime .
the initial 123 genotypes are generated by selecting each allele at random with a probability of 123 for the ? allele and 123 for each of the remaining two alleles .
a typical genotype , therefore , has about ten decisions genetically specified and about ten left to learning .
since we run about 123 learning trials for each organism , there is a reasonable chance that an organism which has the correct genetic specification of ten potential connections will learn the correct specification of the remaining ten .
to generate the next generation from the current one , we perform 123 matings .
the two parents of a mating are different individuals which are chosen at random from the current generation .
ajj . y organism in the current generation that learned the good net has a much higher probability of being selected as a parent .
the probability is proportional to 123+ 123n / 123oo , where n is the number of learning trials that remain after the organism has learned the correct net .
so organisms which learn immediately are 123 times as likely to be chosen as parents than organisms which never learn .
the single offspring of each mating is generated by randomly choosing a cross ( cid : 123 ) over point and copying all alleles from the first parent up to the cross ( cid : 123 ) over point , and from the second parent beyond the cross - over point .
how learning can guide evolution
. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .
~ o , s r _ _
- - - ,
. , _ . : . . , :
figure 123 : the shape of t he search space in which evolution operates .
the horizontal axis represents combinations of alleles and so it not really one - dimensio nal .
wit hout learn ing , t he search space has a single spike of high fitness .
one can not do bett er t han random search in such a space .
with learnin g , there is a zone of increased fitness aro und the spike .
this zone corresponds to genotypes which allow the correct combination of potential connections to be learned .
geoffrey e .
hinton and steven j .
nowlan
to keep the argument simple , we started by assuming that learning was simply a random search through possible switch settings .
when t here is a single good combination an d all other combinations are equally bad a random search is a reasonable strategy , but for most learning tasks there is more structure than this and the learning process shou ld make use of t he structure to home in on good sw itc h configurations .
more sophist icated learning procedures could be used in these cases ( e . g rumelhart , hinton , and williams ( 123 ) ) .
indeed , using a hillclimbing procedure as an inner loop to guide a genetic search can be very effective 123 ) .
as holland 123has shown , genetic search is particularly good at obtaining evidence about what con ( cid : 123 ) fers fitness from widely separated points in the search space .
hiliclimbing , on the other hand , is good at loca l , myopic optimization .
when the two techniques are combined , they often perform much better than eit her tech ( cid : 123 ) nique alone ( 123 ) .
thus , using a more sophisticated lear ni ng procedure on ly strengthens the argument for the importance of the baldwin effect .
for simplicity , we assumed that the learning operates on exactly t he same variables as the genetic search .
t his is not necessary for the arg ument .
each gene could influence the probabilities of large numbers of po tent ial connections and the learning would still improve the evolutionary path for the genetic search .
in this mo re general case , any lamarckian attempt to inherit ac quired characteristics would run into a severe computational d ifficulty : to know how to change the genotype in order to generate the acquired characteristics of the ph enoty pe it is necessary to invert the for ( cid : 123 ) ward function that maps from genotypes , via the processes of deve lop ment and learning , to adapted phenoty pes .
t his is generally a very complicated , non - linear , stochastic function and so it is very har d to compute how to change t he genes to achieve des ired changes in the phenotypes even when these desired changes are known .
we have focused on the inter action . between evolution and lea rning , but the same combinatorial arg ume nt can be applied to the interaction betwee n evolution and deve lopment .
instead of directly specifying the phenotype , the genes could specify the ingred ients of an adap tive process and leave it to this process to achieve the required end result .
an inter esting mod el of this kin d of adaptive p rocess is described by von der malsbu rg and will ( cid : 123 ) shaw ( 123j .
wad dington ( 123j suggested this ty pe of mechanism to acco unt for the inheritance of acquired character ist ics with in a darwinian framework .
there is selective pressure for genes wh ich facilitate the deve lopment of certain useful characteristics in response to the environment .
in the limit , the deve lopmental process beco mes canalized : the same characteristic will tend to develop regardless of the environmental factors that originally con ( cid : 123 ) trolled it .
environmental control of the process is supplanted by internal genetic contro l .
thus , we have a mechanism which as evolution progresses allows some aspects of the phenotype that were initially specified indirect ly via an adaptive process to become more directly specified .
our simulation supports the arguments of baldwin and waddington , and demonstrates that adaptive processes within the organism can be very
how learning can guide evolution
effect ive in guiding evolution .
the main limitation of the baldwin effect is that it is only effective in spaces that would be hard to search without an adapt ive process to restructure the space .
the example we used in which there is a sing le spike of added fitness is clearly an extreme case , and it is difficult to assess the shape that real evolutionary search spaces would it may be have if there were no adaptive processes to restructure them .
poss ible to throw some light on this issue by using computer simulations to exp lore the shape of the evolutionary search space for simple neural networks that do not learn , but such simu lations always contain so many simplifying assumptions that it is hard to assess their biological relevance .
we t herefore conclude with a disjunction : for bio logists who believe that evolutionary search spaces contain nice hills ( even without the restructuring caused by adaptive processes ) the baldwin effect is of little int erest , 123 but for biologists who are suspicious of the assertion that the natural search spaces are so nicely structured , the baldwin effect is an important mechanism th at allows adaptive processes within the organism to greatly improve the space in which it evolves .
t his research was supported by grant ist - 123 from the national sci ( cid : 123 ) ence foundation and by contract noo123 - 123 - k - 123 from the office of nava l research .
we thank david ackley , francis crick , graeme mitchi ( cid : 123 ) son , john maynard - smith , david willshaw , and rosa lind zalin for helpful
