in th pa we pr a no me fo le a ma di me to be us in th kn cl al .
th al di ma a st va of th le - on - ou kn sc on th tr se .
it ca al le a lo - di li - ea em of la da th ca be us fo da vi an fa cl .
un ot me , ou cl mo is no - pa , ma no as ab th sh of th cl di or th bo be th .
th pe of th me is de on se da se , bo fo me le an li di re .
ne ne ( kn ) is an ex si ye su ef me fo cl - it ap st fr th fa th it de su ar no , th is on a si in pa ( wh is ea tu wi cr - va ) , an th ex qu of pr im au as th am of tr da in - cr .
th ad , sh by ma no - pa me , re th fa th al th na cl ma ha qu hi ca ( si it ac th en re of tr da at te ti ) , th tr le pr ra ca ov
ho , kn su fr tw ve se dr .
th rs is co , si it mu st an se th th en tr se in or to cl a si te po .
( st ca po be re by ed or th th tr da an in lo di in sp , th se pr ca be mi by em da st su as kd - tr or ba - tr ( 12 ) . ) th se is a mo is : ho sh th di me us to de th ne ne of a te po be de ? in th pa , we at bo of th di by le a qu di me wh op th ex le - on - ou cl er on th tr da wh us wi a st ne se ru .
fu , we ca fo th le di me to be lo ra , th su re st an se co at te ti .
12 st ne ne fo di me le
we be wi a la da se co of n re - va in ve x1 , .
, xn in rd an co cl la c1 , . . . , cn .
we wa to nd a di me th ma
th pe of ne ne cl .
id , we wo li to op pe on fu te da , bu si we do no kn th tr da di we in at to op le - on - ou ( lo ) pe on th tr da .
in wh fo , we re ou to le ma ( qu ) di me , wh ca al be re by sy po se - de ma .
we es - ma su me th th in sq ro , by le a li tr of th in sp su th in th tr sp , kn pe we .
if we de th tr by a ma a we ar ef le a me q = a> su th d ( x , y ) = ( x y ) >q ( x y ) = ( ax ay ) > ( ax ay ) .
th ac le - on - ou cl er of kn is qu a di fu of th tr a , si an in ch in a ma ch th ne gr an th af lo cl pe by a ni am .
in , we ad a mo we be me of ne ne pe , by in a di co fu ba on st ( so ) ne as in th tr sp .
in pa , ea po i se an po j as it ne wi so pr pi , an in it cl la fr th po it se .
we de th pi us a so ov eu di in th tr sp :
pk ex ( ka ax )
pi = 12
un th st se ru , we ca co th pr pi th po i wi be co cl ( de th se of po in th sa cl as i by ci = ( j| = cj ) ) :
pi = xj
th ob we ma is th ex nu of po co cl un th
f ( a ) =x xj
di f wi re to th tr ma a yi a gr ru wh we ca us fo le ( de xi = xi xj ) :
= 12 xj
re th te we ob a mo ef co ex :
ou al wh we du ne co an ( nc ) is ex si : ma th ab ob ( 12 ) us a gr ba op su as de - ba - de or co gr .
of co , si th co fu ab is no co , so ca mu be ta to av lo ma du tr .
ho , un ma ot ob fu ( wh go op ar no ne de bu ra br ) it ha be ou ex th th la we ca dr f du tr th be ou te pe wi be .
in ot wo , we ha ne ob an ov ef .
no th by le th ov sc of a as we as th re di of it ro we ar al ef le a re - va es of th op nu of ne ( k ) .
th es ap as th ef pe of th di pi .
if th le
pr wa to re th ef pe ( co fe ne ) it ca sc up a un si by sc do al th en in a it ca in th pe of an ef av ov mo ne du th st se .
ma th ob fu f ( a ) is eq to mi th l1 no be th tr cl di ( ha pr on on th tr cl ) an th st cl di in by pi vi a .
a na al di is th kl - di wh in th fo ob fu :
ma th ob wo co to ma th pr of ob a pe ( er fr ) cl of th en tr se .
th gr of g ( a ) is ev si th th of f ( a ) :
= 12 xk
we ha ex wi op th co fu as we , an fo bo th tr - fo le an th pe re on tr an te da to be ve si to th ob wi th or co fu .
to sp up th gr co , th su th ap in eq ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) ov th da po an ov th ne of ea po , ca be tr ( on be we ca do st gr ra th ex gr an th ot be pi dr of
12 lo ra di me an no pr
of it is us to re th di of in da , ei fo co sa - in or fo re of a su le al .
li di re - du te ( wh ap a li op to th or da in or to ar at th re re ) ar po be th ar bo fa an th re - ti im to ov .
be th im on af ma , li pr al pr so es to of th or da .
ma ap ex fo li - ea di re , ra fr pu un ap ( su as fa an , pr co an an in co an ) to me wh ma us of cl la in ad to in fe su as li di an ( ld ) ( 12 ) po co wi re co an ( rc ) ( 12 ) .
by re a to be a no ma of si dd , nc ca al do li di - al re .
in th ca , th le me wi be lo ra , an th tr in wi li in rd .
( si th tr is li , wi lo of ge we on co - si th ca d d .
) by ma su a re , we ca po re ma fu be be th al co me fo le a kn di me .
in pa - ti , by ch d ( ci : 12 ) d we ca va re th st an se - ti re of kn .
se d = 12 or d = 12 we ca al co us lo di vi - iz on la da , us on a li pr .
th al is ex th sa : op th co fu ( 12 ) us gr de on a no a .
ou me re no ma in an as no pa mo ( ga or ot ) fo th cl di or th bo be th .
fo no , th di of th re re ( th nu of ro in a ) mu be se by th us .
by us an hi re a so th d ( ci : 12 ) d , we ca si re th co - pu lo of kn at th ex of re th al me to be th of
ra at mo d .
to ac th , we ap th nc le al to nd th op tr a , an th we st on th pr of th tr po yn = ax ( as we as th la ) .
at te ti , we cl a ne po xt by rs co it pr yt = ax an th do kn cl on yt us th yn an a si eu me .
if d is re sm ( sa le th 12 ) , we ca pr th yn by bu a kd - tr or a ba - tr to fu in th sp of se at te ti .
th st re of th me ar o ( dn ) + dd co wi o ( dn ) fo kn in th or in sp .
12 ex in me le an di re
we ha ev th nc al ag st di me fo kn an ot me fo li di re .
in ou ex , we ha us 12 da se ( 12 fr th uc ir re ) .
we co th nc tr ob fr op f ( fo sq a ) on th tr se wi th de eu di a = i , th wh tr , a = 12 12 ( wh is th sa da co ma ) , an th rc ( 12 ) tr a = w ( wh w is th av of th wi - cl co ma ) .
we al in th be of nc wh a is re to be di , al on ax al ma me .
fi 12 sh th th tr an ( mo im ) te pe of nc is co th sa as or be th th of ot ma di me fo kn , de th re si of th nc ob fu an th fa th th di me be le is no mo th a po de ma a> .
we ha al in th us of li di re us nc ( wi no - sq a ) fo vi as we as re - co cl on se da .
in gu 12 we sh 12 ex of 12 - d vi .
fi , we ge a sy th - di da ( sh in to ro of gu 12 ) wh co of 12 cl ( sh by di co ) .
in tw di , th cl ar di in co ci , wh th th di is ju ga no , un wi th ot di or th cl la .
if th no va is la en , th pr fo by pc is fo to in th no ( as sh on th to le of gu 12 ) .
( a fu ra eu me wo al be mi by th di . ) th cl ar no co an ca be li - ea se , he th re ob fr ld wi be in ( as sh in gu 12 ) .
in co , nc ad nd th be pr wi as an pa - me st in th lo di re .
we ha al ap nc to th uc wi da , wh co of 12 po la in 12 cl an to a da of gr - sc im of fa co of 12 cl ( ea a se in ) an 12 di ( im si is 12 12 ) .
th fa da co of 12 im ( 12 fo ea pe ) .
fi , we ap ou al to a su of th us da of ha di im , co of th rs ve di cl ( on th ve ) .
th gr im we do to 12 12 pi re re in 12 di .
as ca be se in gu 12 wh a tw - di pr is us , th cl ar co - si mu be se by th nc tr th by ei pc ( wh is un ) or ld ( wh ha ac to th cl la ) .
of co , th nc tr - ma is st on a li pr , ju op wi a co fu wh ex en lo se .
to fu qu th pr re we ca ap a ne - ne cl in th pr sp .
us th sa pr le at tr ti , we pr th tr se an al fu te po an pe kn in th lo - di sp us th eu me .
th re un th pc , ld , ld fo by rc an nc tr ( us k= ) ap in gu 12
th nc pr co gi su pe in th hi co lo -
di me le tr
di me le te
ra 12 tr tr
ra 12 tr te
fi 12 : kn cl ac ( le tr , ri te ) on uc da ba , io - sp , ir , wi an ho an on th us ha di .
re ar av ov 12 re of sp ea da in tr ( 12 ) an te ( 12 ) su ( fo us 12 im fo ea of th 12 di cl we us fo tr an 12 fo te ) .
to pa sh di me le ( sq a ) an bo pa sh li di re do to d = 12
ra kn se .
in su , we ha fo th wh la da is av , nc pe be bo in te of cl pe in th pr re an in te of vi of cl se as co to th st me of pc an ld .
12 ex to co la an se - su le
al we ha fo he on di cl , li tr an fu su - pe le , ma ex of th ba id ar po .
cl , a no tr fu a ( ) co be le us an ar ( su as a mu pe ) tr by gr me .
fu , it is po to ex th cl - si fr pr ab to th ca of a re va ( co ) su si by de th se of co ma ci fo po i to be th po j ha si ( co ) ta .
th na le to th id of so ma , in wh th ob fu be a su ov al pa , ea we by th ag ac - co to th ta .
le un su an ob ca st pr ev in se wh th ta ar no ex pr as lo as in id cl pa
fi 12 : da vi re of pc , ld an nc ap to ( fr to ) th co ri , wi , fa an di da .
th da ar re fr th or di ( d= , d= , d= , d= re ) to th d= di
fi 12 : th tw di ou of th ne ne on a se of te ca .
on th le , ea po is sh us a li se th ha th sa or as th in fa .
on th ri , th sa po ar sh ag wi th si of th ci re th si of th fa .
is av .
su se - su ta of ar in do wi st sp or te - po co co on th su , e . g .
in a vi of a pe fa we ma as th po , an ex va sl in ti ev if no in fr ar ev la ex wi nu po or ex va .
to il th , we ge pa of fa in th fo wa : fi we ch tw fa at ra fr th fe - b da ( 12 is fa th ha a st or an sc ) .
th rs fa is ro by an an un di be 12 an sc to ha a he un di be 12 an 12 pi .
th se fa ( wh is of a di pe ) is gi th sa ro an sc bu wi ga no of 12 an 12 pi .
th pa is gi a we , wa , wh is th pr de of th ad no di by it ma po va .
we th tr a ne ne wi on hi la of 12 lo un to ma fr th 12 pi in of a fa to a po , y , in a 12 - d ou sp .
ba wa us to mi th co fu in eq .
12 wh en th fa in a pa to be pl cl to :
wa lo ex ( || yb )
pc , d ex ( || yd ) ! ( 12 )
co = xp ( a , b )
wh c an d ar in ov al of th fa , no ju th on th fo a pa .
fo ex fa ar sh to th ri ho - zo th pa ag an ve th do no .
fi 12 ab sh th th fe ne ne di po co - di wi th us ha to de ho to re sc an or in th ou sp .
12 re to ot me an co
se pa re ad th pr of le ma di fu gi la da or at le si - in of th fo of eq co .
tw re me ar rc ( 12 ) an a co op ba al ( 12 ) .
rc is im as a ga di fo ea cl ( so it ca be de us on th rs tw mo of th cl - co di ) .
xi et .
al at to nd a tr wh mi al pa sq di be po in th
sa cl th im as th cl fo a si co co se .
fo hi mu cl di th co fu wi be se pe .
lo ( 12 ) pr a me si to ou bu us a mo li id fo le a ne ne di me .
in hi ap , th me is co to be di ( as we , it is so re pa ) , an th ob fu co to th av sq er be th tr cl di an th pr di , wh is no en ap in a mo pr se .
in pa th ha be wo on le lo ra tr fo fa cl an vi .
th cl ld al ( 12 ) is op if al cl di ar ga wi a si sh co th as , ho is ra tr .
ld al su fr a sm sa si pr wh de wi hi - di da wh th wi - cl sc ma is ne si ( 12 ) .
re va of ld ( e . g .
( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) ma th tr mo ro to ou an to nu in wh no en da ar av .
( th pr do no ex in ou me si th is no ne fo a ma in . )
in ge , th ar tw cl of re as th ar co in li me fo cl .
th rs is a st pa as ab th st of th cl di ( ty en co or ev co st ) ; th se is an as ab th de bo ( ty en a hy ) .
ou me ma ne of th as , re in on th st re im by re ou to a li tr of th or in .
fu re on th nc mo wi in us lo es of k as de fr th en of th di pi th po us of a st cl ru at te ti an mo sy co be th ob fu f an g .
to co , we ha in a no no - pa le me nc th ha th ta of di le an di re in a un ma .
al mu re ef ha fo on no - li me , we fe th li em - be ha st no fu fu it po fo ei vi or le .
th to da he an pa vi fo su th we in th al - ti co g ( a ) an th ca of di a .
