ne pr la mo ( np ) ha be sh to be co - ti wi an oc su to th wi - us n - gr la mo .
th ma dr of np is th ex lo tr an te ti .
mo an be ha pr a hi la mo bu ar a bi tr of wo , wh wa tw or of ma fa th th no - hi mo it wa ba on .
ho , it pe co wo th it no - hi co in sp of us a wo tr cr us ex kn .
we in a fa hi la mo al wi a si fe - ba al fo au co of wo tr fr th da .
we th sh th th re mo ca ou no - hi ne mo as we as th be n - gr mo .
st la mo is co wi bu pr mo of wo se .
su mo ca be us to di pr se fr im on , a ta im fo pe sp re , in re , an ma tr .
th va ma of st la mo ar ba on th ma as , wh st th th di - ti of a wo de on on so xe nu of wo th im pr it .
wh th as is cl fa , it is ve co be it re th pr of mo th pr di of wo se of ar le to th pr of mo th di on th ne wo gi so xe nu of pr wo , ca th co .
we wi de th di by p ( wn : n1 ) , wh wn is th ne wo an w1 : n1 is th co ( w1 , . . . , wn ) .
n - gr la mo ar th mo po st la mo du to th si an su go pe .
th mo ar si co pr ta fo p ( wn : n1 ) , es by co th n - tu in th tr da an no th co ap .
si th nu of n - tu is ex in n , sm th ra co is es fo ac go pe .
th is a la nu of sm me av fo n - gr mo ( 12 ) .
in sp of th so sm me de fo th , n - gr mo ar un to ta ad of la co si th da sp pr be ex .
th ma re fo th be is th fa th cl n - gr mo ar es co pr ta wh di en ar es in of ea ot .
th mo do no ta ad of th fa th si wo oc in si co , be th ha no co of si .
cl - ba n - gr mo ( 12 ) ai to ad th is by cl wo an / or co in cl ba on th us pa an th us th cl in to im ge .
wh it ca im n - gr pe , th ap in a ve ri ki of si , si ea wo ty be to ex on cl .
an al an mu mo ex ap to co th da sp pr is to re ea wo us a re - va fe ve th ca it pr , so th wo
us in si co wi ha si fe ve .
th th co pr of th ne wo ca be mo as a sm fu of th fe ve of th co wo an th ne wo .
th ap pr au sm , si fo a gi co si wo ar no gu to be as si pr .
si , si co ar no li to ha si re re in si pr fo th ne wo .
mo mo ba on th ap us a fe - fo ne ne to ma th fe ve of th co wo to th di fo th ne wo ( e . g .
( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) .
pe th be kn mo of th ty is th ne pr la mo ( 12 ) , wh ha be sh to ou n - gr mo on a da of ab on mi wo .
12 th hi ne ne la mo
th ma dr of th np an ot si mo is th th ar ve sl to tr an te ( 12 ) .
si co th pr of th ne wo re ex no ov al wo in th vo , th co of co th pr of th gi ne wo an th co of co th fu di ov th ne wo ar vi th sa th ta ti li in th vo si .
si co th ex gr in su mo re re co th pr of th ne wo gi it co an up th mo pa to in th pr , tr ti is al li in th vo si .
ty na la da ha vo co te of th of wo , wh me th tr np - li mo th st wa is us to co ex in pr .
on wa to sp up th pr is to us a sp im sa pr to ap th gr re fo le ( 12 ) .
ho , wh th me ca sp up tr su , te re co ex .
th hi np in in ( 12 ) , pr an ex re in ti co of le an te as co to th np .
it ac th re by re th un - tu vo of th np by a bi tr th re a hi cl of wo in th vo .
ea wo co to a le in th tr an ca be un sp by th pa fr th ro to th le .
if n is th nu of wo in th vo an th tr is ba - an , an wo ca be sp by a se of o ( lo n ) bi de in wh of th tw ch of th cu no is to be vi ne .
th se re on n - wa ch by a se of o ( lo n ) bi ch .
in pr te , on n - wa no is re by a se of o ( lo n ) lo ( bi ) no .
as a re , a di ov wo in th vo ca be sp by pr th pr of vi th le ch at ea of th no .
in th hi np , th lo pr ar co by gi a ve of th np th fe ve fo th co wo as we as a fe ve fo th cu no as in .
th pr of th ne wo is th gi by th pr of ma a se of bi de th co to th pa to th wo .
wh ap to a da of ab on mi wo , th mo ou cl - ba tr , bu pe co wo th th np ( 12 ) .
th hi mo ho wa mo th tw or of ma fa th th np .
th ma li of th wo wa th pr us to co th tr of wo fo th mo .
th tr wa ob by st wi th wo is - a ta an co it in a bi tr th a co of ma an da - dr pr .
ou go is to re th pr by an au me fo bu tr fr th tr da wi re ex kn of an ki .
we wi al ex th pe be of us tr wh ea wo ca oc mo th on .
12 th lo - bi mo
we wi us th lo - bi la mo ( lb ) ( 12 ) as th fo of ou hi mo be of it ex pe an si .
li vi al ne la mo , th lb mo re ea wo wi a re - va fe ve .
we wi de th fe ve fo wo w by rw an re to th ma co al th fe ve as r .
to pr th ne wo wn gi th co w1 : n1 , th mo co th pr fe ve r fo th ne wo by li co th co wo fe ve :
wh ci is th we ma as wi th co po i .
th th si be th pr fe ve an th fe ve fo ea wo in th vo is co us th in pr .
th si ar th ex an no to ob th di ov th ne wo :
p ( wn = w| : n1 ) =
ex ( rt rw + bw ) pj ex ( rt rj + bj )
he bw is th bi fo wo w , wh is us to ca th co - in wo fr .
no th th lb mo ca be in as a sp ki of a fe - fo ne ne wi on li hi la an a so ou la .
th in to th ne ar th fe ve fo th co wo , wh th ma of we fr th hi la to th ou la is si th fe ve ma r .
th ve of ac of th hi un co to th th pr fe ve fo th ne wo .
un th np , th lb mo ne to co th hi ac on on pe pr an ha no no in it hi la .
in sp of it si th lb mo pe ve we , ou bo th np an th n - gr mo on a fa la da ( 12 ) .
12 th hi lo - bi mo
ou hi la mo is ba on th hi mo fr ( 12 ) .
th di fe of ou mo ar th us of th lo - bi la mo fo co th pr at ea no an th ab to ha mu oc of ea wo in th tr .
no th th id of us mu wo oc in a tr wa pr in ( 12 ) , bu it wa no im .
th rs co of th hi lo - bi mo ( hl ) is a bi tr wi wo at it le .
fo no , we wi as th ea wo in th vo is at ex on le .
th ea wo ca be un sp by a pa fr th ro of th tr to th le no th wo is at .
th pa it ca be en as a bi st d of de ma at ea no , so th di = 12 co to th de to vi th le ch of th cu no .
fo ex , th st 12 co to a pa th st at th ro , vi it le ch , an th vi th ri ch of th ch .
th al ea wo to be re by a bi st wh we wi ca a co .
th se co of th hl mo is th pr mo fo ma th de at ea no , wh in ou ca is a mo ve of th lb mo .
in th hl mo , ju li in it no - hi co , co wo ar re us re - va fe ve .
ea of th no - le no in th tr al ha a fe ve as wi it th is us fo di th wo in th le su fo th wo in th ri su of th no .
un th co wo , th wo be pr ar re us th bi co th ar de by th wo tr .
ho , th re is st qu ex , si ea bi di in th co en a de ma at a no , wh de on th no fe ve .
in th hl mo , th pr of th ne wo be w is th pr of ma th se of bi de sp by th wo co , gi th co .
si th pr of ma a de at a no de on on th pr fe ve , de by th co , an th fe ve fo th no , we ca ex th pr of th ne wo as a pr of pr of th bi de :
p ( wn = w| : n1 ) = y
p ( di , w1 : n1 ) ,
wh di is it di in th co fo wo w , an qi is th fe ve fo th it no in th pa co to th co .
th pr of ea de is gi by
wh ( x ) is th lo fu an r is th pr fe ve co us eq .
bi in th eq is th no bi th ca th co - in te to vi th le ch wh le th no .
p ( di = 12 , w1 : n1 ) = ( rt qi + bi ) ,
th de of p ( wn = w| : n1 ) ca be ex to mu co pe wo by in a su ov al co fo w as fo :
p ( wn = w| : n1 ) = x
p ( di , w1 : n1 ) ,
wh d ( w ) is a se of co co to wo w .
al mu co pe wo ca al be pr of wo th ha mu se or mu us pa .
us mu co pe wo al ma it ea to co se se wo hi to in a si on to to re th fa th no si hi ca ex al th re be wo .
us th lb mo in of th np fo co th lo pr al us to av co th no in th hi la wh ma ou hi mo fa at ma - in pr th th hi np .
mo im , th hi np ne to co th hi ac on fo ea of th o ( lo n ) de , wh th hl mo co th pr fe ve ju on pe pr .
ho , th ti co of co th pr fo a si bi de in an lb mo is st qu in th fe ve di d , wh mi ma th us of hi - di fe ve to co ex .
we ma th ti co li in d by re th we ma ci to be di . 12 no th fo a co of si 12 , th re do no re th re po of th mo be th co we ma c1 ca be ab in th wo fe ve .
an wh th re do ma th mo wi la co sl le po , we be th th lo is mo th co fo by mu fa tr ti wh al us mo co tr .
hl mo ca be tr by ma th ( pe ) lo - li .
si th pr of th ne wo de on on th co we , th fe ve of th co wo , an th fe ve of th no on th pa fr th ro to th le co th wo in qu , on a ( lo ) sm fr of th pa ne to be up fo ea tr ca .
12 hi cl of wo
th rs st in tr a hi la mo is co a bi tr of wo fo th mo to us .
th ca be do by us ex kn , da - dr me , or a co of th tw .
fo ex , in ( 12 ) th tr wa co fr th is - a ta da fr wo ( 12 ) .
af pr th ta by ha to en th ea no ha on on pa , da - dr hi bi cl wa pe on th ch of th no in th ta th ha mo th tw ch , re in a bi tr .
we ar in in us a pu le ap ap in si wh th ex kn - ed is un .
it is al no cl th us ex kn , ev wh it is av , wi le to su pe .
hi bi cl of wo ba on th th us st is a na ch fo ge bi tr of wo au .
th ta is si to th ta of cl wo in cl fo tr cl - ba n - gr mo , fo wh a la nu of al ha be pr .
we co se of th al be de - in to us ou ow al wh tu ou to be su ef in sp of it si .
ho , we wi me tw ex al th mi be su fo pr bi wo hi .
si we wa an al th sc we to la vo , we re ou at to th to - do hi cl al , as th te to sc be th th ag co ( 12 ) .
th al fr ( 12 ) pr ex th ki of bi tr we ne , ex th it ti co is cu in th vo si . 12 we al co th di cl al ( 12 ) bu de no to us it be of th di in in us co of mo th on wo fo cl .
th pr is sh by mo n - gr cl al , so we wi de it in so de .
si we wo li to cl wo fo ea pr of th ne wo ba on it co , it is na to de ea wo in te of th co th ca pr it .
fo ex , fo a si - wo co on su de is th
of co we fo po i an de th el pr of tw ve .
12 th fe ve fo th ne wo ca no be co as r = pn 12 pr , th ti co of th al is cu in th nu of th fr wo , bu th
is st to sl fo ou pu .
ci rw , wh ci is a ve
di of wo th pr th wo of in in th tr da .
th pr be ap wh we co us la co : th nu of co th ca po pr - ce a wo gr ex in th co si .
th is th ve sa da sp pr th af th n - gr mo , wh is no su , si we ar tr to de wo in te of ex la ( no ) co ve .
th , cl wo ba on su la - co re be no - tr du to th co co in as we as th st di ca by th sp of th da .
we av th di by op on lo - di re - va wo re in ou tr - bu pr .
si we ne to tr a mo to ob wo fe ve , we pe th fo bo pr : we ge a ra bi tr of wo , tr an hl mo ba on it , an us th di re it le to re wo wh bu th wo tr .
si ea wo is re by a di ov co it ap in , we ne a wa of co su a co of co do to a lo - di ve .
af tr th hl mo , we su ea co w1 : n1 wi th pr fe ve pr fr it us eq .
th , we co th di of co th pr a gi wo in a fe ve by co th ex of th pr re w . r . t .
th di .
th , fo th pu of cl ea wo is re by it av pr fe ve .
af co th lo - di re - va fe ve fo wo , we re ap a ve si cl al to th .
at ea st , we t a mi of tw ga to th fe ve an th pa th in tw su ba on th re of th tw mi co fo th .
we th pa ea of th su us th sa pr , an so on .
th re st wh th cu se co on tw wo .
we t th mi by ru th em al fo 12 st
th al up bo th me an th sp co of th co .
si th me of th co ar in ba on a ra pa of th fe ve , th al is no de an wi pr so di cl on di ru .
on ap pr of th al is th th ru ti of ea it is li in th vo si , wh is a co of re wo us fe ve of xe di .
in ou ex , th al to on a fe mi to bu a hi fo a vo of ne 12 wo ba on 12 - di
th go of an al fo ge tr fo hi la mo is to pr tr th ar we - su by th da an ar re we - ba so th th re mo ge we an ar fa to tr an te .
to ex th tr - of be th tw re - me , we tr se sp ru in ou tr - bu al .
th ru ar ba on th ob th th re of a co fo a da ca be us as a me of co - de ab th as of th da to th co .
th , wh th re of bo co fo a da ar cl to 12 , we ca be su th th da sh be in on co bu no th ot .
ou si ru ai to pr a ba tr at an co .
it so th re an sp th wo in tw di su of eq si ba on th so or .
th se ru ma sp we - su by th da ev if th re in an un tr .
it ac th by as th wo to th co wi th hi re fo th wo .
th th an th mo so ru is an ex of th se ru , mo to as a po to bo co wh bo re ar wi of 12 , fo so pr - sp .
th ru is de to pr mu co fo wo th ar di to cl .
we wi re to th al th us th ru as ba , ad , an ad ( ) re .
fi , as a ba fo co wi th ab al , we wi us an al th ge ra ba tr .
it st wi a ra pe of th wo an re bu th le su ba on th rs ha of th wo an th ri su ba on th se ha of th wo .
we wi ca th al ra .
12 em fo mo th 12 st di no ma a si di in th qu of th re
ta 12 : tr of wo ge by th fe - ba al .
th me co le is th su of le of co as wi a wo , av ov th di of th wo in th tr da .
th ru - ti co of th hi mo is li in th me co le of th tr us .
th me nu of co pe wo re to th nu of co pe wo av ov th tr da di .
si ea no - le no in a tr ha it ow fe ve , th nu of fr pa as wi th tr is li in th qu .
me co me nu of co pe wo
ta 12 : th ef of th fe di an th wo tr us on th te se pe of
a ra tr
a no - ra tr
12 ex re
we co th pe of ou mo on th ap da co th as pr ne st fr 12 an 12
th da co of a 12 mi wo tr se , a 12 mi wo va se , an 12 mi wo te se .
th vo si fo th da is 12
we ch th da be it ha al be us to co th pe of ne mo to th of n - gr mo in ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , wh al us to co ou re to th re in th pa .
ex fo wh st ot , th mo us fo th ex us 12 di fe ve an a co si of 12
th de of th tr pr we us ar gi in th ap .
al mo we co ba on th pe sc on th te se .
we st by tr a mo th us a tr ge by th ra al ( tr t1 in ta 12 ) .
th fe ve le by th mo we us to bu a tr us th ba al ( tr t1 ) .
we th tr mo of va fe ve di on ea of th tr to se wh a hi ex mo ca co fo us a po co tr .
th te sc fo th re mo ar gi in ta 12
as ca be se fr th sc , us a no - ra tr re in mu be mo pe .
th th ga in pe ca be re by in th di of fe ve , us a no - ra tr dr - ca im pe ev fo th mo wi 12 - di fe ve .
it sh be no ho , th mo th us th ra tr ar no en ho .
fo ex , th ou th un mo wh ac th pe of 12 by a ve la ma .
th su th th hl ar is su ex to ma ef us of a ra tr
si in th fe di be 12 di no re in a su re in pe , we us 12 - di fe ve fo al of ou mo in th fo ex - me .
ne we ex th ef of th tr bu al on th pe of th re hl mo .
to do th , we us th ra , ba , an ad al to ge on tr ea .
th ad ( ) al wa us to ge tw tr : on wi se
ta 12 : te se pe re fo th hi lb mo .
al th di mo in th co us 12 - di fe ve an a co si of 12
lb is th no - hi lo - bi mo .
kn is a kn - ne n - gr mo .
th sc fo lb , kn , an kn ar fr ( 12 ) .
th ti fo lb is ba on ou im of th mo .
to 12 an th ot wi se to 12 .
we th ge a 12 ov tr by ru th ad ( = 12 ) al tw an cr a tr wi a ro no th ha th tw ge tr as it su .
si th ad ( ) al in so ra we tr to im th mo pe by al th mo to ch dy be tw po cl .
fi , we ge a 12 ov us th sa ap .
ta 12 li th ge tr as we as so st fo th .
no th tr ge us ad ( ) us > 12 re in mo wi mo pa du to th gr nu of tr - no an th tr - no fe ve , as co to tr ge us me pr on co / le
ta 12 sh th te se pe an ti pe ep fo th re mo al wi th pe fo mo fr ( 12 ) .
th re sh th th pe of th hl mo ba on no - ra tr is co to th of th n - gr mo .
as ex , bu wo tr ad im mo pe .
th ge tr th em is th bi tr te to le to be pe mo .
fo ex , a mo ba on a si tr pr us th ad ( 12 ) al , pe as we as th 12 - gr bu no as we as th no - hi lb mo .
ho , us a 12 ov tr ge us th sa al re in a mo th ou bo th n - gr mo an th lb mo , an us a 12 ov tr le to a fu re in pe .
th ti - pe - ep st re fo th ne mo in ta 12 sh th gr sp ad of th hl mo ov th lb mo .
in , th sl of ou hl mo is ov 12 ti fa th th lb mo .
12 di an fu wo
we ha de th a hi ne la mo ca ac ou it no - hi co an ac st - of - th - ar pe .
th ke to ma a hi mo pe we is us a ca co hi ov wo .
we ha pr a si an fa fe - ba al fo au co of su hi .
cr hi in wh ev wo oc mo th on wa es to ge th mo to
an in of tr ge by ou ad al sh th th wo wi th la nu of co ( i . e .
th wo th we re th mo ) we no th wo wi mu di se .
in , th al ap to re th wo th oc re in - fr in th da an we th di to cl .
th fa to us mu co fo wo wi se ve di se is pr a co of su th di ov co wi a si me fe ve wh cl wo .
th se mu of co di wo be be ca by us a sm se of fe ve fo by cl th co .
fi , si ou tr bu al is ba on th fe ve le by th mo , it is po to pe in tr of su a mo to re th wo tr ba on th fe ve pr by th mo be tr .
th mo tr pr mi pr be mo by al th wo hi to ad to th pr co of th mo an vi ve .
ap : de of th tr pr
th mo ha be tr by ma th lo - li us st gr as .
al mo pa ot th th bi we in by sa fr a ga of sm va .
th bi fo th tr no we in so th th di pr by th mo wi al th no - bi pa se to ze ma th ba ra of th wo in th tr se .
mo we tr us th le ra of 12 un th pe on th va se st to in .
th th le ra wa re to 12 12 an tr wa re un th va pe st in ag .
al mo pa we re us a sm
we th ma sz fo hi co on a dr of th pa .
th re wa su by ns an cf .
ge is a fe of th ca in fo ad re .
