we sh ho to us co pr to el th ex aw ef th ma in de - co be ne th ha ma hi la .
us co - pl pr , we de a fa , gr al - ri th ca le de , di be ne on la at a ti , pr th to tw la - er fo an un as me .
th fa , gr al is us to in a sl le pr th ne - tu th we us - in a co ve of th wa - sl al - ri .
af ne - tu , a ne wi th hi la fo a ve go ge mo of th jo di of ha di im - ag an th la .
th ge mo gi be di cl th th be di - na le al .
th lo - di ma on wh th di li ar mo by lo ra in th fr - en la of th to - le as me an it is ea to ex - pl th ra by us th di co - ti to di wh th as me ha
le is di in de - co , di be ne th ha ma hi la be it is di to in th co di of th hi ac wh gi a da ve .
va me us si ap to th tr co di , bu th ap ma be po , es at th de hi la wh th pr as in .
al , va le st re al of th pa to be le to an ma th le ti sc po as th nu of pa -
we de a mo in wh th to tw hi la fo an un as me ( se gu 12 ) an th
( ci : 12 ) to ap in ne co 12
re hi la fo a di ac gr th co th re in th as me in ob va su as th pi of an im .
th hy - br mo ha so at fe :
th is a fa , gr le al th ca nd a fa go se of pa qu , ev in de ne wi mi of pa an ma hi
th le al is un bu ca be ap - pl to la da by le a mo th ge bo th la an th da .
th is a ne - tu al th le an ex - le ge mo wh ou di - ti me on th mn da of ha - wr
th ge mo ma it ea to in th di -
tr re in th de hi la .
th in re fo fo a pe is bo fa
th le al is lo :
ad to a sy st de on on th st of th pr - sy an po - sy ne .
th co is si : ne on ne to
co th st bi st .
se 12 in th id of a co pr wh ex ca th ex aw ph th ma in di in di mo .
an ex - pl of a di be ne wi co pr is pr .
se 12 sh th eq be re - st bo ma an in di ne wi ti we .
se 12 in a fa , gr le al fo co mu - la di ne on la at a ti .
us a va bo it sh th as ea ne la is ad , th ov ge mo im .
th gr al be so re to bo in it re us of th sa we le , bu in of re - we ea da - ve to en th th ne st le so ne , it re - re it .
th we le th
12 to - le un
12 la un
th co be th to le of
12 x 12
fi 12 : th ne us to mo th jo di of di im an di la .
in th pa , ea tr ca co of an im an an ex cl la , bu wo in pr ha sh th th sa le al ca be us if th la ar re by a mu pa wh in ar sp fr mu di sp - er sa is di .
th ne th le to ge pa th co of an im an a sp of th sa
is us to co de di ne is it an un
se 12 sh ho th we pr by th fa gr al ca be ne - tu us th up - do al - go .
th is a co ve of th wa - sl al - go hi et al .
( 12 ) th do no su fr th mo - av pr th ca ca th wa - sl al - go to le po re we .
se 12 sh th pa re pe of a ne wi th hi la an ab 12 mi we on th mn se of ha di .
wh no kn of ge is pr an th is no sp pr , th ge pe of th ne is 12 er on th 12 12 di of te se .
th be th 12 ac by th be ba - pr ne wh th ar no ha - cr fo th pa ap .
it is al sl be th th 12 er re by de an sc ( 12 ) fo su ve ma on th
fi , se 12 sh wh ha in th mi of th ne wh it is ru wi be co by vi - su in .
th ne ha a fu ge mo , so it is ea to lo in it mi we si ge an im fr it hi - le re .
th th pa , we wi co ne co of
fi 12 : a si lo be ne co tw in - pe , ra ca th be hi an - co wh we ob th ho ju .
th bi of ( ci : 12 ) 12 on th ea - qu no me th , in th ab of an ob , th no is e1 ti mo li to be of th on .
if th ea - qu no is on an th tr no is of , th ju no ha a to in of 12 wh me th it ha an ev ch of be on .
th is a mu be ex of th ob th th ho ju th th od of e ( ci : 12 ) 12 wh ap if ne of th hi ca is ac .
bu it is wa to tu on bo hi ca to ex th ob be th pr of th bo ha is e ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 ) e ( ci : 12 ) 12 = e ( ci : 12 ) 12
wh th ea no is tu on it ex aw th ev fo th tr no .
st bi va bu th id ca be ge to ot mo in wh th lo pr of a va is an ad fu of th st of it di - co ne - bo ( se ap a fo de ) .
12 co pr
th ph of ex aw ( il in gu 12 ) ma in di in di be ne .
in de co ne , th po di ov th hi - de va is in ex in a fe sp ca su as mi mo or li mo wi ad ga no .
ma ch mo ca me ( ne , 12 ) ca be us to sa fr th po , bu th ar ty ve ti co .
va me ( ne an hi , 12 ) ap th tr po wi a mo tr di an th ca be us to im a lo bo on th lo pr of th tr da .
it is co th le is gu to im a va bo ev wh th in of th hi st is do in , bu it wo be mu be to nd a wa of el ex - pl aw al , ev in mo wh hi va - ab ha hi co ef on th vi va .
it is wi as th th is im .
a lo be ne ( ne , 12 ) is co of st - ti bi un .
wh th ne is us to ge da , th
pr of tu on un i is a lo fu of th st of it im an , j , an of th we , wi , on th di co fr th an :
p ( si = 12 ) =
12 + ex ( ( ci : 12 ) bi ( ci : 12 ) pj sj )
wh bi is th bi of un i .
if a lo be ne on ha on hi la , th pr di ov th hi va is fa be th bi st ar ch in wh th mo is us to ge da .
th no - in in th po di is cr by th li te co fr th da .
pe we co el ex aw in th rs hi la by us ex hi la to cr a co pr th ha ex th op co to th in th li - ho te .
th , wh th li te is mu by th pr , we wi ge a po th is ex fa .
it is no at al ob th co pr ex , bu gu 12 sh a si ex of an in lo be ne wi ti we in wh th pr ar co at ev hi la ( se ap a fo a mo ge tr of th co un wh co pr ex ) .
th us of ti we to co co pr ma se li a me tr fo ma di mo eq - le to un on .
as we sh se , ho , it le to a no an ve ef le al th wo by pr un th we in ea la fr th we in hi la .
12 an in di mo wi ti we
we ca ge da fr th in di ne in g - ur 12 by st wi a ra co at an in de hi la an th pe a to - do an - tr pa in wh th bi st of ea va in a la is ch fr th be di de by th to - do in co fr it ac pa in th la ab .
in th re , it is ju li an ot di ac be ne .
un ot di ne , ho , we ca sa - pl fr th tr po di ov al of th hi la by st wi a da ve on th vi un an th us th tr we ma to in th fa - to di ov ea hi la in tu .
at ea hi la we sa fr th fa po be co th fa po fo th la ab
ap - pe a sh th th pr gi un sa be th co pr at ea la en th th po di re is fa .
si we ca sa fr th tr po , we ca co - pu th de of th lo pr of th da
12 ge pr co to th st di of th ma ch , so we ne to st at a la th is de co wi th ti it ta fo th ch to re eq .
12 is ex th sa as th in pr us in th wa - sl al ( hi et al . , 12 ) fo th mo de in th pa no va ap is re be th in pr gi un sa .
us st by co th de fo a ge we , ij , fr a un j in la h1 to un i in la v1 ( se gu 12 ) .
in a lo be ne , th ma li le ru fo a si da - ve , v1 , is :
@ lo p ( v1 )
i ( ci : 12 ) ^v
wh < ( ci : 12 ) > de an av ov th sa st an i is th pr th un i wo be tu on if th vi - bl ve wa st re fr th sa hi st .
co th po di ov th se hi la , v1 , fr th sa bi st in th rs hi la , h1 , is ex th sa pr as re - st th da , so v1 i is a sa fr a be ra va wi pr ^v i .
th le ru ca th be wr as :
@ lo p ( v1 )
i ( ci : 12 ) v1
i on h1
j is un in th de - th de of v1 ti of eq .
12 fr eq .
12 be ^v i is an ex th is co on h1 j .
si th we ar re , th fu de fo a ge we is ob by su th de of th ge we be al pa of la -
@ lo p ( v1 )
i ( ci : 12 ) v1
j ( ci : 12 ) h1
i ( ci : 12 ) v1
al of th ve al te ca le th bo -
ma ma le ru of eq
12 re bo ma an
co di le
it ma no be im ob th th in di ne in gu 12 is eq to a re bo ma - ch ( rb ) .
an rb ha a si la of hi un wh ar no co to ea ot an ha un , sy co to a la of vi un .
to ge - er da fr an rb , we ca st wi a ra st in on of th la an th pe al gi sa - pl : al of th un in on la ar up in pa gi th cu st of th un in th ot la an th is re un th sy is sa fr it eq di .
no th th is ex th sa pr as ge da fr th in be ne wi ti we .
to pe ma li le in an rb , we ca us th di be tw co .
fo ea we , wi , be a vi un i an a hi un , j we me j > wh a da is cl on th co < v1
fi 12 : an in lo be ne wi ti we .
th do ar re th ge mo .
th up - wa ar ar no pa of th mo .
th re th pa th ar us to in sa fr th po di at ea hi la of th ne wh a da is cl on v1
th vi un an th hi st ar sa fr th co di , wh is fa .
th , us al - te gi sa , we ru th ma ch sh in gu 12 un it re it st di an me th co <v j > .
th gr of th lo pr of th tr da is th
@ lo p ( v1 )
j> ( ci : 12 ) <v
th le ru is th sa as th ma li le ru fo th in lo be ne wi ti we , an ea st of gi sa co to co th ex po di in a la of th in lo be ne .
ma th lo pr of th da is ex th sa as mi th ku - le di , ( ci : 12 ) ) , be th di of th da , p 12 , an kl ( p 12 12 th eq di de by th mo , p 12 co di le ( hi , 12 ) , we on ru th ma ch fo n fu st be me th se - on co .
th is eq to ig th de 12 fu st co of up h gi v th up v
t = 12 t = 12
t = in
t = in
fi 12 : th de a ma ch th us al gi sa .
in on fu st of gi sa , th hi - de un in th to la ar al up in pa by ap - in eq .
12 to th in re fr th th cu st of th vi un in th bo la , th th vi un ar al up in pa gi th cu hi st .
th ch is in by se th bi st of th vi un to be th sa as a da - ve .
th co in th ac of a vi an a hi un ar me af th rs up of th hi un an ag at th en of th ch .
th di of th tw co pr th le si fo up th we on th co .
th co fr th hi la of th in ne .
th su of al th ig de is th de of th lo pr of th po di in la vn , wh is al th de of th ku - le di be - tw th po di in la vn , p n ( ci : 12 ) , an th eq - li di de by th mo .
so co di - ve le mi th di of tw ku -
kl ( p 12 12
( ci : 12 ) ) ( ci : 12 ) kl ( p n
( ci : 12 ) jj 12
ig sa no , th di is ne ne be gi sa is us to pr p n ( ci : 12 ) fr p 12 an gi sa al re th ku - le di - ge wi th eq di .
it is im to no - ( ci : 12 ) de on th cu mo pa an ti th p n ( ci : 12 ) ch as th pa ch is th wa in wh p n be ig by co di le .
th pr - le do no ar wi p 12 be th tr da do no de on th pa .
an em in of th re be th ma li an th co - tr di le ru ca be fo in ca - pe an hi ( 12 ) .
co di le in a re bo ma is ef en to be pr ( ma an hi - to , 12 ) .
va th us re - va un an di - en sa sc ar de in te et al .
( 12 ) an ha be qu su fo mo th fo of to - po ma ( we et al . , 12 ) , fo de na im ( ro an bl , 12 ) or im of bi ce ( ni et al . , 12 ) .
ma an mo ( 12 ) de a wa of us co di to pe fa an - si an we et al .
( 12 ) sh th a ne wi lo , bi vi un an li , ga hi un ca be us fo ra do re .
ho , it ap th
th ef ha be bo at a hi pr : wh ap in th ob wa , co di le fa fo de , mu ne wi di we at ea la be th ne ta fa to lo ev to re co - ti eq wi a cl da - ve .
we no sh th th eq be rb an in di ne wi ti we su an ef le al fo mu ne in wh th we ar no ti .
12 a gr le al fo
an ef wa to le a co mo is to co a se of si mo th ar le se .
to fo ea mo in th se to le so di fr th pr mo , th da is mo in so wa af ea mo ha be le .
in bo ( fr , 12 ) , ea mo in th se is tr on re - we da th em th ca th th pr mo go wr .
in on ve of pr co an , th va in a mo di is re th fo th ne mo di to li in th or su ( sa , 12 ) .
in pr pu ( fr an st , 12 ) , th da is tr by no di on di in th da - sp to re al no - ga in th di .
th id be ou gr al is to al ea mo in th se to re a di re of th da .
th mo pe a no - li tr on it in ve an pr as ou th ve th wi be us as in fo th ne mo in th se .
fi 12 sh a mu ge mo in wh th to tw la in vi un co an al of th ot co ar di .
th un co - ti at th to ar eq to ha in ma hi la wi ti we .
th ar no in - la co an , to si th an , al la ha th sa nu of un .
it is po to le se ( th no op ) va fo th pa w1 by as th th pa - te be hi la wi be us to co a co - me pr fo w1
th is eq to as th al of th we ma ar co to be eq .
th ta of le w1 un th as re to th ta of le an rb an al th is st di , go ap - pr so ca be fo ra by mi co - tr di .
on w1 ha be le , th da ca be ma th wt 12 to cr hi - le da at th rs hi la .
if th rb is a pe mo of th or da , th hi - le da wi al be mo pe by th hi - le we ma .
ge , ho , th rb wi no be ab to mo th or da pe an we ca ma th ge mo be us th fo
le w1 as al th we ma ar ti .
fr w1 an co ou to us wt
12 to in
fi 12 : a hy ne .
th to tw la ha un - re co an fo an as me .
th la - er be ha di , to - do , ge co th ca be us to ma a st of th as me to an im .
th ar al di , bo - up , re co th ar us to in a fa re in on la fr th bi ac in th la be .
in th gr in le th re co ar ti to th ge co .
fa ap po di ov th st of th va in th rs hi la , ev if su ch in hi le we me th th in me is no lo co .
ke al th hi we ma ti to ea ot , bu un fr w1 , le an rb mo of th hi - le da th wa pr by us wt tr th or da .
if th gr al ch th hi - le we ma , it is gu to im th ge mo .
as sh in ( ne an hi , 12 ) , th ne lo pr - ab of a si da - ve , v1 , un th mu ge - er mo is bo by a va fr en wh is th ex en un th ap di , q ( h1 ) , mi th en of th di .
fo a di - re mo , th en of th co v1 h1 is
e ( v1 h1 ) = ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) lo p ( h1 ) + lo p ( v1 ) ( ci : 12 )
so th bo is : lo p ( v1 ) ( ci : 12 ) x
q ( h1 ) ( ci : 12 ) lo p ( h1 ) + lo p ( v1 ) ( ci : 12 )
q ( h1 ) lo q ( h1 )
wh h1 is a bi co of th un in th rs hi - de la , p ( h1 ) is th pr pr of h1 un th cu - re mo ( wh is de by th we ab h1 ) an q ( ( ci : 12 ) jv ) is an pr di ov th bi co - gu in th rs hi la .
th bo be an eq if an on if q ( ( ci : 12 ) jv ) is th tr po di -
wh al of th we ma ar ti to , th fa - 12 to a to di ov h1 pr by ap wt da - ve is th tr po di , so at st 12 of th gr al lo p ( v1 ) is eq to th bo .
st 12 fr bo q ( ( ci : 12 ) jv ) an p ( v1 ) an wi th te xe , th de of th bo is th sa as th de
q ( h1 ) lo p ( h1 )
so ma th bo w . r . t .
th we in th hi la - er is ex eq to ma th lo pr of a da in wh h1 oc wi pr q ( h1 ) .
if th bo be ti , it is po fo lo p ( v1 ) to fa ev th th lo bo on it in , bu lo p ( v1 ) ca ne fa be it va at st 12 of th gr al - ri be th bo is ti at th po an th bo
th gr al ca cl be ap re , so if we us th fu ma li bo ma le al to le ea se of ti we an th we un th bo la of th se fr th we ab , we ca le th we on la at a ti wi a gu - an th we wi ne de th lo pr of th da un th fu ge mo .
in pr , we re ma li bo ma le al by co di le be it wo we an is mu fa .
th us of co di vo th gu , bu it is st re to kn th ex la ar gu to im im mo if we le ea la wi su pa .
to gu th th ge mo is im by gr le mo la , it is co to co mo in wh al la ar th sa si so th th hi - le we ca be in to th va le be th ar un fr th we in th la be .
th sa gr al , ho , ca be ap ev wh th la - er ar di si .
12 ba - fi wi th up - do al
le th we ma on la at a ti is ef bu no op .
on th we in hi la ha be le , ne th we no th si in pr - du ar op fo th lo la .
th su - op pr - du by gr le is re in fo su - vi me li bo .
la ar of sc an ea
12 gu is on th ex ch in th lo pr .
la ma on pr a fe bi of co on th pa - te , so ov - tt is ty mo of a pr th un - tt .
go ba an re th ea mo ma , th - fo , ca mo ha th go .
un me , ho , ca us ve la un da an ea ca ma be ve hi - di th pr ma bi of co on a ge mo .
un - tt is th a se - ri pr wh ca be al by a su st of ba - tt in wh th we th we le rs ar re to t in be wi th we th we le la .
af gr le go in va fo th we in ev la , we un th re we th ar us fo in fr th ge we th de - ne th mo , bu re th re th th po in ea la mu be ap by a fa di in wh th va wi a la ar co in - de gi th va of th va in th la be .
a va of th wa - sl al de in hi et al .
( 12 ) ca th be us to al th hi - le we to in th lo le on .
in th up - pa , th re - ni we ar us in a bo - up pa th st - ca pi a st fo ev hi va .
th ge we on th di co ar th ad us th ma li le ru in eq .
th we on th un co at th to le ar le as be by tt th to - le rb to th po di - ti of th pe la .
th do - pa st wi a st of th to - le as - ci me an us th to - do ge co to st ac ea lo la in tu .
du th do - pa , th to - le un co an th ge di co ar no ch .
on th bo - up re we ar mo .
th is eq - le to th sl ph of th wa - sl al if th as - so me is al to se to it eq di - bu be in th do - pa .
bu if th as me is in by an up - pa an th on al to ru fo a fe it of al gi sa be in th do - pa , th is a co fo of th wa - sl al wh el th ne to sa fr th eq di of th as me .
th co fo al xe se ot pr of th sl ph .
it en th th re we ar be le fo re th re th us fo re da an it al he to el th pr of mo av - ag .
if , gi a pa da ve , th cu re - ti we al pi a pa mo at th le ab an ig ot ve di mo th ar eq go at ge th da , th le in th do - pa wi no tr to al th re we to re an of th ot mo as it wo if th sl ph us a pu an pa .
a pu an pa wo ha to st by us pr - lo gi sa to ge an eq sa fr th to - le as me .
by us a to - le as -
12 we ar no lo ti to th we ab th , i mu be co us th st of th va in th la ab i an th ge we fr th va to i .
fi 12 : al 12 ca in wh th ne gu ri bu ha a se gu wh pr wa wi 12 : 12 of th pr of th be gu .
th tr cl ar ar in st sc or .
ti me we al el a pr in th wa ph : in to - le un se to be re to al an an pa , bu th me th th va ap - ti is ve po fo th to la of we .
ap b sp th de of th up - do al us ma - st ps - co fo th ne sh in g - ur 12
fo si , th is no pe on th we , no mo , an th sa le ra fo al pa .
al , th tr da is re to a si ca .
12 pe on th mn da
12 tr th ne
th mn da of ha di co 12 , 12 tr im an 12 , 12 te im .
re fo ma di pa re te ar al pu fo th pu av da so it is id fo ev ne pa re me .
fo th ba ve of th mn le ta , no kn of ge is pr - vi an th is no sp pr - pr or en of th tr se , so an un bu xe ra pe - ti of th pi wo no af th le al .
fo th pe - in ve of th ta , th ge - iz pe of ou ne wa 12 er on th of te se .
th ne sh in gu 12 wa tr on 12 , 12 of th tr im th we di in 12 ba mi - ba ea co 12 ex of ea di cl .
th we we up af ea mi - ba .
12 ex wi 12 ( ci : 12 ) 12 im of ha di fr th us da sh th a go wa to mo th jo di of di im an th la wa to us an ar of th ty , bu fo 12 ( ci : 12 ) 12 im , on 12 as ma un we us in ea hi la .
fi 12 : th 12 te ca th th ne go wr .
ea ca is la by th ne gu .
th tr cl ar ar in st sc or .
in th in ph of tr , th gr al de - sc in se 12 wa us to tr ea la of we se , st at th bo .
ea la wa tr fo 12 sw th th tr se ( ca ep ) .
du - in tr , th un in th vi la of ea rb ha re - va ac be 12 an 12
th we th no - ma pi in wh le th bo la of we .
fo tr hi la of we , th re - va ac of th vi un in th rb we th ac pr of th hi un in th lo - le rb .
th hi la of ea rb us st bi va wh th rb wa be tr .
th gr tr to a fe ho pe la in ma on a 12 xe pr an wh it wa do , th er - ra on th te se wa 12 ( se be fo de of ho th ne is te ) .
wh tr th to la of we ( th on in th as me ) th la we pr as pa of th in .
th la we re by tu on on un in a so gr of 12 un .
wh th ac in th gr we re fr th ac in th la ab , ex - ac on un wa al to be ac an th pr of
pi un i wa gi by :
wh xi is th to in re by un i .
cu , th le ru ar un by th co be un in a so gr , so th sy do no ne to kn wh un is co wi wh ot un .
th co - ti af th pr of a un tu on , bu it is on th pr th af th le .
af th gr la - by - la tr , th ne wa tr , wi a di le ra an we - de , fo 12 ep us th up - do al de in se 12
th le ra , mo , an we - de we ch by tr th ne se ti an ob it pe on a se va se of 12 , 12 im - ag th we ta fr th re of th fu tr se .
fo th rs 12 ep of th up - do al , th up - pa wa fo by th fu it of al gi sa in th as me be pe - in th do - pa .
fo th se 12 ep , si it we pe , an fo th la 12 ep , te it we pe .
ea ti th nu of it of gi sa wa ra , th er on th va se de
th ne th pe be on th va se wa th te an ha an er ra of 12 .
th ne wa th tr on al 12 , 12 tr im un it er - ra on th fu tr se wa as lo as it na er - ra ha be on th in tr se of 12 , 12 im .
th to a fu 12 ep ma th to le ti ab a we .
th na ne ha an er - ra of 12
th er ma by th ne ar sh in gu 12
th 12 ca th th ne ge co bu fo wh th se be pr is wi 12 of th be pr ar sh in gu 12
