we pr a no - li ge mo fo hu mo da th us an un mo wi bi la va an re - va vi va th re jo an .
th la an vi va at ea ti st re - ce di co fr th vi va at th la fe ti - st .
su an ar ma on - li in ef an al us to us a si - pl ap le pr .
af tr , th mo nd a si se of pa th si ca se di ki of mo .
we de th po of ou ap by sy va mo se an by pe on - li ll in of da lo du mo ca .
re ad in mo ca te ha fu in in th an an sy of co hu mo fo an an tr .
mo ba on th ph of ma an sp ha pr so im re by us so en - ba le me ( 12 ) to es ph pa fr mo ca da ( 12 ) .
bu if we wa to ge re hu mo , we ne to mo al th co of th re dy an th is so di to do an th le is li to be es .
th si wa to ge ne mo se ba on da is to co pa of tr se ( 12 ) .
an me is to tr mo in th tr da to ne se by le to ad it st or ot ch ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
in th pa we fo on mo dr an an sy bu av th co in in im ph - ba co , re in on a pu le ap in wh al th kn in th mo co fr th da .
da fr mo mo ca sy is hi - di an co co no - li re be th co of th ob ve , wh us re jo an wi re to so sk st .
hi ma mo ca mo su da ef be th re on a si , di k - st mu to re th hi of th ti se .
to mo n bi of in ab th pa hi th re 12 hi st .
to av th ex ex , we ne a mo wi di ( i . e .
co ) hi st th ha a re ca wh is li in th nu of co .
li dy sy sa th re , bu th ca mo th co no - li dy cr by th no - li pr of mu , co fo of th fo on th gr an my ot fa .
12 an en - ba mo fo ve of re - va
in ge , us di bi re fo hi st in di mo of ti se ma in di .
if , ho , we us a re bo ma ( rb ) to mo th pr di of th ob ve at ea ti fr , th po ov la va fa co , ma in ea .
ty , rb us bi lo un fo bo th vi da an hi va , bu in ou ap th da ( co of jo an ) is co .
we th us a mo rb in wh th vi un ar li , re - va va th ha ga no ( 12 , 12 ) .
th gr mo ha a la of vi un v an a la of hi un h; th ar un co be la bu no co wi a la .
fo an se of th hi un , th di of ea vi un is de by a pa lo li fu th ma ex va ve im : 12
lo p ( v , h ) = x
hj + co ,
wh i is th st de of th ga no fo vi un i .
( in pr , we re ou da to ha ze me an un va .
we ha fo th xi i at 12 ma th le wo we ev th we wo ex a go mo to pr th da wi mu hi pr ) .
th ma ad of us th un , en - ba mo ra th a di be ne is th in is ve ea be th hi un be co in wh th st of th vi un ar ob .
th co di ( as i = 12 ) ar :
p ( hj = 12 ) = f ( bj + x
p ( vi ) = n ( ci + x
hj , 12 ) ,
wh f ( ) is th lo fu , n ( , v ) is a ga , bj an ci ar th bi of hi un j an vi un i re , an wi is th sy we be th .
ma li le is sl in an rb bu le st wo we if we ap fo th gr of an fu ca th co di ( 12 ) .
th le ru is :
wi hv hv ,
wh th rs ex ( ov hi un ac ) is wi re to th da di an th se ex is wi re to th di of re da .
th re ar ge by st a ma ch at th da di , up al th hi un in pa by sa ( eq .
12 ) an th up al th vi un in pa by sa ( eq .
fo bo ex , th st of th hi un ar co on th st of th vi un , no vi ve .
th le ru fo th hi bi is ju a si ve of eq
bj hh id hh .
12 th co rb mo
th rb we ha de ab mo st fr of da , bu do no in an te - po in .
we ca mo te de by tr th vi va in th pr ti sl as ad xe in ( 12 ) .
fo , th do no co in .
we ad tw ty of di co ( fi 12 ) : au co fr th pa n co ( ti st ) of th vi un to th cu vi co , an co fr th pa m vi to th cu hi co .
th ad of th di co - ne tu th rb in a co rb ( cr ) .
in ou ex , we ha ch n = m = 12
th ar , ho , tu pa an ne no be th sa fo bo ty of di co .
to si di , we wi as n = m an re to n as th or of
12 an se of th pa , th gr of th qu lo li wi al ov th gr du to th we in fr th bi hi un pr th va vi of a vi un is fa en fr it bi , ci .
fi 12 : in a tr mo , pr of ea fe be on co on th da at th vi un .
sh is a 12 - hi un mo , an a se wh co ( in or ) wa , si / st ( th ti ) , wa , cr , an ru .
ro re fe , co re se fr .
in in th cr is no mo di th in th st rb .
gi th da at ti t , t 12 , .
, t n , th hi un at ti t ar co in .
we ca st us co di fo tr th cr .
th on ch is th wh we up th vi an hi un , we im th di co - ne by tr da fr pr ti st as a dy ch bi .
th co di le ru fo hi bi is gi in eq .
12 an th eq le ru fo th te - po co th de th dy ch hi un bi is :
is th lo - li pa ( we ) co vi un i at ti t q to hi un j fo q = 12 . n .
si , th le ru fo th au co th de th dy ch vi un bi is :
i ir ( ci : 12 ) .
is th we fr vi un k at ti t q to vi
th au we ca mo sh - te te st ve we , le th hi un to mo lo - te , hi le st .
du tr , th st of th hi un ar de - mi by bo th in th re fr th ob da an th in th re fr th pr ti sl .
th le ru fo w re th sa as a st rb , bu ha a di ef - fe be th st of th hi un ar no in by th pr vi un .
we do no at to mo th rs n fr of ea se .
t - 12 t - 12 t
fi 12 : ar of ou mo ( in ou ex - me , we us th pr
wh le a mo of mo , we do no ne to pr se th th tr da se .
th up ar on co on th pa n ti st , no th en se .
as lo as we is ch of fr ( th si de on th or of th di co ) , th ca be mi an fo in mi - ba .
to sp up th le , we as th ch of fr in ba mi - ba of si 12
we ra as ch to di mi - ba so th th ch in ea mi - ba ar as un as po .
to sa co me , ti fr ar no ac re in mi - ba we si us in to si th ch of fr .
ou tr pr re on se ap , mo of wh ar ch ba on ex - pe tr si ne .
wh tr th cr , we re vi in eq .
12 an eq .
12 by it ex va an we al us th ex va of vi wh co th pr of ac of th hi un .
ho , to co th on - st re of th da , we us st ch bi va of th hi un .
th pr th hi ac fr tr an un am of in fr th da to th re ( 12 ) .
wh up th di vi - to - hi co ( eq .
12 ) an th sy un co ( eq .
12 ) we us th st ch bi va of th hi un in th rs te ( un th da ) , bu re hj by it ex va in th se te ( un th re - ti ) .
we to th ap be th re of th da de on th bi ch ma wh se hi st .
th wh we in th hi fr th re da , th pr ar hi co wi th bi hi st in fr th da .
on th ot ha , we st af on re , so th bi ch of hi fr th re do co wi an ot te , an th is no po in th ex no .
la , we no th th ne - tu pr as a wh is ma a cr ap in ad to th on ma by co di .
th in st , co on pa vi st , is ap be it ig th fu ( it do no do sm ) .
be of th di co , ex in wi th mo sh in bo a fo an ba pa th ea se ( we cu pe on a fo pa ) .
we ha av a ba pa be mi va cr pr in un mo , so it is ha to pe le ef us th fu po .
co wi an hm , th la of sm is a lo , bu th is mo th of by th ex ga in re po .
12 da ga an pr
we us da fr th cm gr la mo ca da as we as fr ( 12 ) ( se ac ) .
th pr da co of 12 jo an de fr 12 ( cm ) or 12 ( mi ) ma pl a ro ( co , ne th ba of th ba ) or an di .
fo bo da , th or da wa ca at 12 we ha do it to 12 .
si of th jo an di in th or cm da ha co va , so th we el - in .
ea of th re jo an ha be on an th de of fr .
al of th jo an an th ro or we co fr eu an to th ex ma pa ( 12 ) .
th wa do to av gi lo an di .
( th mi da wa al ex in ex ma fo an di no ne to be co . )
we tr th ro sp be it en a tr wi re to a xe gl co sy .
in or to re ph , we wa ou na re to be in to gr - pl tr an to ro ab th gr ve .
we re ea gr - pl tr by an in fo ve an an in si ve re to th di th pe wa cu fa , bu we re he no - in by th di ab th gr pl .
we re or ar th gr ve by th in ch , bu we re th ot tw ro de of fr by th ab pi an ro re to th di th pe wa cu fa .
th na di of ou da ve wa 12 ( fo th cm da ) an 12 ( fo th mi da ) .
no th we el ex ma di th we co ze ( co to jo wi a si de of fr ) .
as me in se .
12 , ea co of th da wa no to ha ze me an un va .
on ad of ou mo is th fa th th da do no ne to be he pr or di re .
br an he ( 12 ) ap pc to re no an di .
th au co in ou mo ca be th of as do a ki of wh of th da .
ur et al .
( 12 ) ma se da in cy an sa at re ti in us qu sp in .
di re be pr wh a wi ra of mo is to be mo .
af tr ou mo us th up de ab , we ca de in se wa wh it ha le ab th st of hu mo .
pe th mo di de , wh ex th fa th it is a pr de mo of se , is to us th mo to ge de - no a nu of sy mo se .
vi le of th se ar av - ab on th we me in th ab th mo ha no be re by ha in an mo ed so .
no th we al do no ha to ke a re of tr da se ar fo ge - we on ne th we of th mo an a fe va fr fo
ca ge fr a le mo ca be do on - li wi no sm , ju li th le pr .
th vi un at th la fe ti st de th ef bi of th vi an hi un at th cu ti st .
we al ke th pr vi st xe an pe al gi sa to ob a jo sa fr th co rb .
th pi ne hi an vi st th ar co wi ea ot an wi th re ( vi ) hi .
ge re in wi n ti st of th vi un , wh im de th mo of mo in wh th sy se wi st .
we us ra dr co fr fr th tr da as an in co .
12 ge of wa an ru se fr a si mo
in ou rs de , we tr a si mo on da co bo wa an ru mo we th us th le mo to ge bo ty of mo , de on ho it is in .
we tr on 12 se of wa an 12 se of jo ( fr su 12 in th cm da ) .
af do to 12 , th tr da co of 12 fr .
fi 12 : af tr , th sa mo ca ge wa ( to ) an ru ( bo ) mo ( se vi on th we ) .
ea sk - to is 12 fr ap .
fi 12 sh a wa se an a ru se ge by th sa mo , us al - te gi sa ( wi th pr of hi un be on co on th cu an pr th vi ve ) .
si th tr da do no co an tr be wa an ru ( an vi - ve ) , th mo wi co to ge wa or ru mo - ti de on wh it is in .
12 le tr be va st
in ou se de , we sh th ou mo is ca of le no on se ho - ge mo st bu al th tr be th , wh th tr da it co
12 12 hi - un cr wa tr fo 12 pa th th tr da , us a th - or mo ( fo di co ) .
we up we ma af ea mi - ba of si 12
th or of th se wa ra pe su th wa an ru se we di th th
ex of su tr .
we tr on 12 se ( fr th mi da , le jo m ) co - ta lo ex of ru an jo , as we as a fe tr be th tw st .
af do to 12 , th pr us wi 12 fr .
tr wa do as be , ex - ce th af th mo wa tr , an id 12 hi - un mo wa tr on to of th rs mo ( se se .
th re tw - le mo wa us to ge da .
a vi av on th we de ou mo ab to st tr be va mo st du a si ge se .
12 in tr us no
in ou th de , we sh ho tr be mo st ca be ge ev wh su tr ar ab in th da .
we us th sa mo an da as de in se .
12 , wh we ha le on se se of wa an ru .
to ge , we us th sa sa pr as be , ex th at ea ti we st ch th hi st ( gi th cu an pr th vi ve ) we ad a sm am of ga no to th hi st bi .
th en th mo to ex mo of th hi st sp wi de to fa th cu mo .
ap th no sa ap , we se th th ge mo oc tr be le st .
th tr ap na ( se th vi on th we ) .
12 fi in mi da
du to th na of th mo ca pr , wh ca be ad af by li an en ef , as we as no du re , mo ca da of co mi or un da .
so ma ma di ( dr ) fo lo pe of ti du to se - so fa or oc .
th ma of mo ed so pa co in me to ll in mi da , bu th le th da un sm .
th me al re on th st an en po of th mi da , so if a ma go mi un th en of a se , na in wi no wo .
su me of on us th pa an fu da fr th si mi ma to ll in th ma mi va , bu si jo an ar hi co , su in ab th pl of on ma co be ga fr th ot .
ou tr mo ha th ab to ea ll in su mi da , re of wh th dr oc in a se .
du to it ap in me wh do no re on a ba pa th th se , it al ha th ab to ll in su mi da on - li .
fi in mi da wi ou mo is ve si to ge .
we si cl th kn da to th vi un , in th mi da to so re ( fo ex , th va at th pr fr ) , an al be st up th hi an vi un , wi th kn vi st he xe .
to de ll in , we tr a mo ex as de in se .
12 ex th on wa an on ru se we le ou of th tr da to be us as te da .
fo ea of th wa an ru te se , we er tw di se of jo an , st ha th th te se .
th se we th jo in ( 12 ) th le le , an ( 12 ) th en up bo .
as se in th vi le on th we , th qu of th ll - in da is ex an is ha di fr th or gr tr of th te se .
fi 12 de th mo ab to pr th th an of ro of th le hi .
fo th wa se ( of le 12 fr ) , we co ou mo pe to ne ne in , a si me wh fo ea fr , th va on kn di ar co to ea ex in th tr se to nd th cl ma ( me by eu di - ta in th no an sp ) .
th un di ar th ll in us th ma ex .
as re fr ou mo is st , we re th ex 12 ti an re th me .
fo th mi le , me sq re er pe jo us ou mo wa 12 , me in no jo an sp , an su ov th 12 fr of in .
us ne ne in , th er wa gr : 12 .
fo th mi up bo , me sq re er pe jo us ou mo wa 12 .
us ne ne in , ag th er wa gr : 12 .
fi 12 : th mo su ll in mi da us on th pr va of th jo an ( th th te co ) an th cu an of ot jo ( th th rb co ) .
sh ar tw of th th an of ro fo th le hi jo ( th pl of th th is si to th rs ) .
th or da is sh on a so li , th mo pr is sh on a da li , an th re of ne ne in ar sh on a do li ( se a vi on th we ) .
12 hi le mo
on we ha tr th mo , we ca ad la li in a de be ne ( 12 ) .
th pr la cr is ke , an th se of hi st ve , wh dr by th da , is tr as a ne ki of fu ob da .
th ne le cr ha th sa ar as th rs ( th we ca al th nu of it un ) an is tr in th ex sa wa .
up le of th ne ca th mo hi - or st .
th gr pr is ju us a va bo ( 12 ) .
a tw - le mo is sh in fi 12
we ca al co tw sp ca of th hi - le mo .
if we ke on th vi la , an it n - th or di co , we ha a st ar ( n ) mo wi ga no .
if we ta th tw - hi la mo an de th rs - le au co , as we as bo se of vi - to - hi di co , we ha a si mo th ca be tr in 12 st : rs le a st ( ii ) mo of pa or tr of ti fr , th us th in hi st to tr a fu - ob si be ne th ca th te st of th hi st .
t - 12 t - 12 t
fi 12 : hi -
we ha in a ge mo fo hu mo ba on th id th lo co an gl dy ca be le ef by a co re bo ma .
on tr , ou mo ar ab to ef ca co no - li in th da wi so pr - pr or di re .
th mo ha be de wi hu mo in mi , bu sh le it we to ot hi - di ti se .
in re lo - di or un da ( fo ex if we we to mo a si is jo ) a si - la mo mi be ex to ha di si su cy ti se co se su wh ar lo ve si bu oc in di ph of th ov cy .
it wo be po to pr th gl ph in by us a mu hi or mo , bu fo hi di da su as fu bo mo ca th is un be th wh co of jo an an an ve ne ha an ph am .
so th si - la ve of ou mo ac pe mu be on hi - di da .
mo wi mo hi la ar ab to im mo lo - te te in , an th wi mi th ef .
we ha de th ou mo ca ef le di st of mo , as we as th tr be th st .
th di ou ap fr pc - ba ap wh on ac mo cy mo , an ad mu bu se mo fo ea ty of mo .
th ab of th mo to tr sm , ho , is de on ha su ex of su tr in th tr da .
we pl to tr on la da en - co su tr be va st of mo .
if we au th da wi so st sk an id pa ( in es ma a pe un id to a se of fe - tu ) , we sh be ab to us th sa ge mo fo ma di pe , an ge in ch fr on ty of mo to an .
fi , ou mo is no li to a si so of da .
in th fu , we ho to in lo - le vi da ca at th sa ti as mo we co th le th co be th vi st an th jo an .
th rs da se us in th pr wa ob fr mo . cs . cm . ed .
th da wa cr wi fu fr ns ei - 12
th se da se us in th pr wa ob fr ht : / / pe . cs . mi . ed / eh / wo / si / .
fo ma pl of mo an ge of vi , we ha us ne la mo ca to
