gi a ^n of si co el an so en to be re ,
st sc is to us on co el fo ea en .
th is ca a lo re .
it is ea to un an ea to im be th st of th ph ne mi th st of th kn it co .
th re de a di ty of re th is le fa an ha to th ab th lo re .
ea en is re by a pa of ac di ov ma co el , an ea co el is in in re ma di en .
th st of th mo co ki of re do no li in it no co or it ea of im in a co co , bu ra in th ef wi wh it ma us of th pr ab of ne of si , ne - li co el .
ev re sc ha it go an ba po .
di re ar no ex .
so de pr li co - ad me an au ge ar ve na fr th us of pa of ac as re .
ot pr , li th ab to te st a la se of ar as , ar mu ha to ac .
th be ps ev fo di re is th de to wh th st an we ma th of th hu mi .
^t re wa su by a gr fr th sy de fo .
i th ji an , da ac da ba , fr cr , sc fa , je fe , ch lo - hi , do no , te se , an ti sh fo he di .
ja mc an da ru he me re an re ma of th id pr he a su re ve of th re wi ap as a ch by hi , mc an ru in pa di pr : ex in th mi - st of co , ed by mc an ru )
se 12 an th ef of di re .
si ea ha un is in in en ma di it , th un ha a mu le sp " re fi " th it wo if th re we st lo - ac in a si un re fa le ab wh it is cu be th la of sp at th si un le , we sh se th di re ar so fa mo ef at en it ac .
se 12 de wi th as be th fo of a wo an it me .
th is a ca in wh di re ap to be mu le su th lo on , be th as ar pu ar .
th ar ve fe un re ( fo mo - mo wo ) , an so th ab of di re to ge si ca ha in .
ho , ev in th ca di re ca be su ef an er fr .
se 12 co di an lo re fr th st of cr ne co .
lo re ap to re a ho wi a so ir , bu th ar wa of av th .
lo re al re th sy to ma a di de ab wh to cr a ne co .
di re ar mo fl , al co to be fo gr by we mo th pr di on ol co ' in se ne on .
fi , se 12 di a di
is of av by ad of di re .
hu kn is no ju a se of it or pa of it it is st .
at th ve le , an hu - li me sy mu be ab to re sc st in wh pa co ar pl pa ro wi th wh st .
th is a gu be th ty of ar re an th st di me sc in wh a su of th fe of an it ca gi ri to th re fe .
be ex th de ar in fa of di re , it is im to be cl ab th st wi an ov th of hu in pr .
it wo be wr to vi di re as an al to re sc li se ne or pr sy th ha be fo us in co ps an ar in .
it is mo fr to vi th as on wa of im th mo ab sc in pa ne , bu wi on pr : di re gi ri to so po an un em pr .
th pr ca th be ta as pr wh wo in a mo ab fo .
so if on as th mo ab mo ar im in th br us di re , it is no un to tr ab li co - ad me , au ge , or th se of th ru th be fi th cu si as pr op , ev th th is no ea wa to
gi a ne of si co el an so en
to be re ,
st sc is to us on co cl fo ea en .
th is ca a lo re .
it is ea to un an ea to im be th st of th ph ne mi th st of th kn it co .
th na an si of th re be kn an th ha th im it ha le ma pe to si as th lo re ar th be wa to us pa ha .
th ar , of co , a wi va of mo co im im ar on wo co if th le to in ef or to in em pr th ca be co ac us lo re .
is no on - to - on co be co an ha un , bu
th re de on ty of re th is le fa an ha to th ab th lo re .
ea en is re by a pa of ac di ov ma co el , an ea co el is in in re ma di en .
th st of th mo co ki of re do no li in it no co or it ea of im in a co co , bu ra in th ef wi wh it ma us of th pr ab of ne of si , ne - li co el .
ev re sc ha it go an ba po .
di re ar no ex .
so de pr ar ve na fr th us of pa of ac as re .
ot pr , li th ab to te st a la se of ar as , ar mu ha to ac .
as we sh se , th be ps ev fo di re is th de to wh th st an we ma th of th hu mi .
se 12 in a wa of th ab me th is ve di fr th co me in wh a me is st at a pa lo an is re by ac th lo .
th ac of re is vi as a co pr in wh a wh it is cr af fr a fr , mu as di ar cr in mu .
wh is st is th ru of in th al th co pr to oc .
se 12 sh ho th ty of me au ge ne ac kn so th it ca be ap in ot , si ci .
se 12 pr a wa of cl th va ty of di me th ha be de in th li .
th cl is no ex an it do no ta in co th le sc th ar us fo st ne me .
ho , it do se to em th ma de th ha to be ma in de a di me sy .
im th op in co co .
th , th co th an an of di re ca ma to th hi - lc fo is to le ce po pr op wh wo ot ap to be an ap to ma .
an co so of co is th id th di re ar so in co wi th ex ev fo lo of fu in th br ( lu , 12 ) .
a sy th us di re st re ma di mo fo re co di ki of th at th sa ti .
th di re oc wi th lo mo .
fo ex , di mo wo be de to th ng as di as me im an se st , bu tw di me im wo co to al pa of ac in th sa mo .
th re ad in th re ar lo at a gl sc bu gl at a lo sc .
12 : me as in
pe ha a ve fl wa of ac th me : th ca re it fr pa de of th co ( no & bo , 12 ) .
mo , th ca do th ev if so pa of th pa de ar wr .
ma pe , fo ex , ca ra re th it th sa th fo pa de : it is an ac , it is in , it is a po .
th ki of " co - ad " me is ve us an it is ve ha to im on a co co be co st ea it at a pa ad , an to re an it th mu kn it ad .
if al th co of de th wi be us fo ac ar fr of er an ar kn in ad , it is po to us a me ca " ha co " th qu yi th ad of an it wh gi pa of it co .
in ge , ho , co - ad me re a ma se fo th it th be fi th pa de .
th ce co pr in me is ho to ma th se ef .
wh th cu ca co er th is ve di be th fa to fi on of th cu ca be us as a fi fo qu el in an .
di re pr an ef wa of us pa ha to im be - fi se .
th ba id is fa si , th it is qu un a co co me .
di it co to di pa of ac ov th ve sa gr of ha un .
a pa de ac so of th un , 12 in be th un th co th pa ,
wh a pa de is pr it mu be tu in a pa ac pa .
th is ea if th pa de is si a se of fe , bu it is mu mo di if th pa de me re to ot ob .
if , fo ex , th sy is as to re jo ' s fa , it mu re jo , bu if jo an hi fa ar re by mu ex pa of ac in th ve sa gr of un , it is ha to re ho th ca be do wi pr th re of jo ' s fa .
a di so to th pr is de in se 12
th ge th it th be fi th de .
a ne it is " st " by mo th in be th ha un so as to cr a ne st pa of ac .
th ma di fr a co co me is th pa wh ar no ac do no ex an .
hi ca be re - cr be th co st be un ha be ch ap , bu ea co st is in in st ma pa , so it is im to po to a pa pl wh th me fo a pa it is st .
on wa of th ab di me is in te of a ve la se of pl in ru .
ea ac un re a " mi - fe " of an it , an th co st st fo pl in be mi - fe .
an pa pa of ac of th un wi sa so of th " mi - in " an vi ot .
a st pa of ac is on th vi di pl mi - in le th an of th ne pa .
a ne st pa ca be cr by ch th in ru so th th ne pa vi th le th it ne .
th vi of me ma it cl th th is no sh di be ge me an pl re .
a ge me is a pa th is st be th in ru we mo wh it oc be .
a " co " is a pa th is st be of th wa th in ru ha be mo to st se di pr pa , an so fa as th su is co , th ma be in fr th re th .
th bl of di di be ve re an co or pl re se to be ch of hu me ( ba , 12 ne , 12 ) .
th re na of hu me is su on be it co wi th st me we us .
we te to th th a me sy sh wo by st li co of it an th re th st co , as in a fi ca or a ty co da .
su sy ar no
if we vi me as a pr wh co a pa of ac th re th mo pl it wh is co wi th gi cu , we ne so gu th it wi co on th re of th it th be fi th de , th it mi be to to so ge a go bu no op fi .
it is ea to im th ha , bu it is ha to ma it ac wo .
on re ap to th pr is to us st me to an th be of gr of in st un ( hi , se & ac , 12 ) .
th an gu th th be an it fi th de , th mo li it is to be pr as th so .
12 : si an ge
wh a ne it is st , th mo in th co st mu no wi ou ex it .
th ca be ac by mo a ve la nu of we ve sl .
if th mo ar al in th di th he th pa th is be st , th wi be a co ef : th to he fo th in pa wi be th su of al di sm se mo .
fo un pa , ho , th wi be ve li tr of ef be so of th mo wi he an so wi hi .
in of al th sm mo co to , th wi ma ca ou .
th ki of st re un mo di me mo , bu th ar ma va of th ba id ( se hi an an , 12 ) .
it is po to pr in al by us or pa of ac fo th va it to be st .
ho , th el on of th mo in pr of di re : th au gi ri to ge .
if th ta is si to re ac a se of un it , th ge ef ar ha an ar ca in .
bu ge is no a it al us to de ef wi si th ar si bu no id to pr ex si .
pe ar go at ge ne ac kn .
if yo le a ne fa ab an ob , yo ex ab ot si ob te to ch .
if , fo ex , yo le th ch li on yo wi pr ra yo es of th pr th go li on .
in a ne th us rr ne kn ab ch di re , th ki of ge is au .
is in by mo so of th co st so as to al th ca ef of th di pa of ac th re ch .
12 th mo au ch th ca ef of al si ac pa .
so if th re of go is a si ac pa ov th sa se of un , it ca ef wi be ch in a si wa .
th ve si di sc wo re th co of on an th co of ch by al ac pa ov th ve sa se of un .
it wo th be ha to re ch an on at th sa ti .
th pr ca be so by us se mo fo ea po ro of an it wi a la st .
ch , fo ex , ar th " ag " of th li an so a pa re ch oc th " ag " mo an th pa re on oc th " pa "
th in st of th pa ma al ch .
th is al a ch be ch th we on th ou co an ch th pa it so th di ou co be re .
ch in th pa it al it si to ot pa an th al ho ge wi oc in fu .
it is ge mu ha to fi ou ho to ch th pa th re an it th it is to fi ou ho to ch th ou co so th a pa pa wi ha th de ef on an pa of th ne .
mo ( se fi 12 ) .
ka mo ca ha al pa fo al th va it , so th sc do no in lo re of it .
wh is lo is th ro .
if yo su le th gi an or do no li on yo es of th pr th go li on wi fa , th it ma st re hi th it wa in .
ob , th co of fa su th li on is a pe qu of ch .
a sy th us di re wi au ar at tl co , pr th th al pa th re th va ap ar re to on an in a pa wa th is so mo sp th ju be si to on an : th ne to be a pa of ea co pa th is id fo al di va ap .
in ot wo , th gr of un us fo th di re mu be di in tw su - gr , an al th va ap mu be re by th sa pa in th fi su - gr , bu by di pa in th se su - gr .
th pa of ac ov th fi su re th ty of th it , an th pa ov th se su - gr re ad " mi - fe " th di ea in of th ty fr th ot in
wh th sy le a ne fa ab ch , it us ha no wa of kn wh th fa is tr of al ap or is ju a pr of ch .
th ob st is di to mo th st of th co em fr al th ac un , so th th ne kn wi be pa a pr of ap in ge , an pa a pr of wh fe di ch fr ot ap .
if it is su le th ot ap do no li on , mo wi be ma in di re di so d* th in ab on is no lo as wi th su th is co to al ap .
th kn ab on wi th be re to th su - pa th di ch fr ot ap .
if it ha tu ou th gi an or ha al li on , th mo in th we em fr th su - pa re ap wo ha re on an , an th kn wo ha be as wi th su - pa sh by al ap ra th wi th pa th di on ap fr an .
a ve si ve of th th of ge ha be im in a co si ( hi , 12 ) .
it wo , bu as wi al si , ma de an ar de ha to be ma to pr a wo sy .
th is an ob ge of th id th th re of an it is co of tw pa , on th re th ty an an th re th wa in wh th pa in di fr
12 su of th mi - fe ca be co - od to de a ty on su mi be co to al ap , an a di ( bu
ov ) su mi be co to al pe .
th al an it to be an in of ma di ty si .
fi 12 : in th si sc th ar tw di mo , on of wh re th ag an th ot th pa .
to in th fa th ch li on , th pa fo ch in on mo mu be as wi th pa fo on in th ot mo .
re ot th " li " ca be im by ha a th gr of un wh pa of ac re th re .
th pa mu th " ga " th in be th ag an pa gr .
hi ( 12 ) de on wa of do th ga by us a fo gr of un .
ot of th sa ty .
al al ty ar th in of mo ge ty , an th ca be im by di th pa th re th ty in tw su - pa , on fo th mo ge ty of wh th ty is an in , an th ot fo di fe di di di pa ty fr ot in of th sa ge ty .
th di re be a ty an an in ca be im by th re be a se of un an a la se th in it .
no th th mo ge th ty , th sm th se of un us to en it .
as th nu of te in an de ge sm , th co ex se ge la .
in a ne th us lo re , it is le ob ho to do ge .
gi th ch li on , th ob wa of in th ne kn is by ch th st of co be to th ch un .
bu di do no au ch co th be to di go un .
so ex pr mu be in to im ge in a lo sc .
on co us me is to al ac to sp fr a lo un to ot un th re si co ( qu , 12 co an lo , 12 ) .
th wh on co un is ac , it wi pa ac it ne an th so an kn st in th co em fr ti ne wi be pa ef .
ma va of th ba id ha be tr ( le , 12 mc , 12 fa , 12 ) an ha be sh to be qu ef .
it is ha to ma a cl di be sy wh us lo re pl sp ac an sy wh us di re .
in bo ca di re of ac a co is ui ma di ha un ar ac .
th ma di is di in on ca th is a pa in ha un th ac as a " ha " wh ma it ea to at pu co pr li th na of th co .
it is in ob th it is ha to at an ar na to a di pa th it is to at it to a si un .
as we sh se in se 12 , su in ar no to
12 : va of di me
si th 12 ' s , th ha be a la nu of co si of di me sc .
ma di va of th sa ba id ha be di in .
th se at to in so or in th pr of mo by cl th in a bi tr wi th mo ba di ne th ro ( se fi 12 ) .
th tr sp of mo ha a mu ri st of si an di th ca be ex by a tr , bu it ' s a co si .
ma of th di de wi th na of th in - ou fu us fo th in un .
a fu di of th va fu wi ap in ru , hi an mc ( in pr ) .
st by mo
be ha un .
st by in a ve th ha on as ma co as
a si it .
no - li de )
wi et
ac le j
. ac le j
an & mo , 12
de fu \
l ac le j
' di pu .
& ac , 12
ho , 12 ft
fi 12 : a cl of so di me mo .
a fe ex of ea ty of mo ar gi .
12 : co co
th se co th nu of un di ar re to en fe ac .
th ce re is a su on .
if yo wa to en fe ac us as fe un as po , it pa to us un di ar ve co tu , so di ea fe ac ma di un an ea un is ac by ma di fe .
a sp fe is ti en by a pa of ac in ma un ra th by a si ac un , so co co is a fo of di re .
to ke di ma si , we sh as th th un ha on tw va , on an of . 12 we sh al ig th dy of th sy be th qu of in , fo th ti be , is ho ma un it ta to en fe wi a gi ac .
we st by co th ki of fe th ca be co sp by gi a ty ( e . g .
li - se , co , do ) an th va of so co pa di di it fr ot fe of th sa ty ( e . g .
po , or , si . ) fo ea ty of fe th is a sp of po in .
ea co pa de a di of th fe sp , an ea pa fe co to a po in th sp .
fo fe li do in a pl , th sp of po fe is tw - di .
fo fe li st , or ed - se in 12 - d sp , th fe sp is si - di .
we sh st by co 12 - d fe sp an th ge to hi di .
su th we wi to re th po of a si do in a pl , an we wi to ac hi ac wi us to ma un .
we de th ac of an en sc to be th nu of di en th ar ge as th do is mo a st di th th sp .
on go en sc wo be to di th un in an x gr an a y gr , an de ea un to en a pa x or y in as sh in fi 12
a gi do wo th be en by ac in tw un , on fr ea gr , an th ac wo be pr to th nu of un us .
un , if tw do ha to be en at th sa ti th me br do .
th tw do wi ac tw un in ea gr , an di wi be no wa of te , fr th ac un , wh th do we at ( xl , yl ) an ( x1 , y1 ) or at ( xl , y1 ) an ( x1 , yl ) .
th is ca th bi pr .
it ar be th re do no sp wh go wi wh .
in a co co it is ea to so th bi pr .
we si cr tw re in th co me .
ea re co a pa of co th go to as co of on do , an
12 ar ap wi mu - va ac le , bu it is im no to al ac le - cl to ha ar pr ,
be th ma it po to re an in am of in in a si ac le .
o 12 o o o o o
fi 12 : a si wa of us tw gr of bi un to en th po ot a po in a 12 - d sp .
th ac un in th x an y gr re th x an y co .
o o 12 o o o 12 o
fi 12 : wh tw po mu be en at th sa ti , it is im to te wh x co go wi wh y co .
th bi in is en by th fa th th tw co va ar si in th sa re ( wh us me th ar si in ne me lo ) .
in ' pa ne , it is mu ha to so th bi pr .
on ap is to se as , in ad , on un fo ea po co of x an y va .
th am to co th pl wi a la nu of sm , no - ov zo , an de a un to ea zo .
a do is di re by ac in a si un so di is a lo re .
it is mu le ef th di pr sc be di ac is on pr to th sq ro of di nu of un .
in ge , fo a k - di fe sp , di lo en yi an ac pr to th k th ro of di nu of un .
ac hi ac is th ve ex .
th us of on un fo ea di fe ma be a re en if a ve la nu of fe ar pr on ea oc , so th a la fr of th un ar ac .
ho , it is a ve in en if on a ve sm fr of th po fe ar pr at on .
th av am of in co by th st of a bi un is 12 bi if th un is ac ha th ti , an it is mu le if th un is on ra ac .
12 it wo th be mo ef to us an en in wh a la fr of th un we ac at an mo .
th ca be do if we ab th id di ea di fe is re by ac in a si un
su we di th sp in la , ov zo an as a un to ea zo .
fo si , i sh as di th zo ar ci , th th ce ha a un ra di th th sp , an th al th zo us by a gi en sc ha th sa ra .
th qu of in is ho ac a fe is en as a fu of th ra of th zo .
if we ha a gi nu of un at ou di is it be to us la zo so th ea fe po fa in ma zo , or is it be to us sm zo so th ea fe is re by ac in fe bu mo fi tu un ?
th ac is pr to th nu of di en th ar ge as we mo a fe po al a st li fr on si of th sp to th ot .
ev ti th li cr th bo of a zo , th en of th fe po ch be th ac of th un co to th zo ch .
so th nu of di fe al th li is ju tw th nu of zo th th li pe .
12 th li pe ev zo wh ce li wi on ra of th li ( se fi 12 ) .
th nu is pr to th ra of th zo , r , an it is al pr to th nu , n .
he th
am of in co by a un th ha a pr of p of be on is
pr ar if yo en an le a zo wi cr ot zo bo in be .
yo re to th sa en as
be .
th ef is ne if th zo ar de en fo th to be ma zo co ea po in th sp .
fi 12 : th nu of zo bo th ar cu by th li is pr to th nu of zo ce wi on zo ra of th li .
ac , a is re to th nu of zo an to th ra as fo :
a a nr
in ge , fo a k - di sp , th nu of zo wh ce li wi on ra of a li th th sp is pr to th vo of a k - di hy - cy of ra r .
th vo is eq to th le of th cy ( wh is fi ) ti it k - 12 di cr - se ar wh is pr to r* " 12
he , th ac is gi by :
so , fo ex , do th ra of th zo in by a fa of 12 th li ac wi wh a si - di fe li a st or 12 - d ed is re .
th in id th la zo le to sl re is en wr , be di re ho in mu mo ef th lo on .
ev th ea ac un is le sp in it me , th co of ac un is fa mo sp .
12 no al th wi co co th ac is pr to th nu of un , wh is mu be th be pr to th k* ro of th nu .
un th re to co fe in re ma in vi co of ha fa la re fi .
th is of in as th fi st on th wa to a tr in re .
ho , it ma be th *h fu of th la fi is no to ac tr in bu to pi ac wh th fe is !
li on co co
so fa , on th ad of co co ha be me , an it pr as ha be ig .
th ar a nu of li wh ca th co co st to br do wh di " re fi " be to la .
on ob li oc wh th fi be co in si to th wh sp .
th li is ge of li in be ot , mo se , pr ar be th re fi be th la .
co co is on ef wh ti . c fe th mu be re ar re sp .
if ma fe - po ar cr to , ea re fi wi co ma fe an th ac pa in th co co un wi no di be ma al co of fe po .
12 th th is a re / ac tr - of .
co co ca gi hi ac fo th pa of fe pr th fe ar wi sp so th hi re is no al re .
as a ro ru of th , th di of th re fi sh be of th sa or as th sp be si pr fe - po
th fa th co co on wo if th fe ar sp sh be un , gi th it ad ov a lo en is th it us di in ca of di un mo ef by ma ea un ac mo of .
if th fe ar so de di th un wo be ac fo ab ha di ti us a lo en , co co ca on ma di wo .
a se ma li on th us of co co st fr di fa th di re of a fe mu be us to af ot re .
th is no po us co co if di fe ha to be re as ac in fi tu un be th ca ha th ap af on ot re .
if we as di th ef of a di re is th su of th ef of th in ac un th co th re , th is a st li on th ci un wh co co ca be us ef .
ne fe wi be en by si se of ac un , an so th wi in te to ha si ef .
br sp , co co is on us if th re ef of a fe is th av of di re ef of it ne .
at a fi en sc th is ne al tr fo sp ta .
th sc at wh it br do de an up li on th si of th re fi .
12 lf th un ar al to ha in ac le th re th nu of fe po fa wi th fi , a fe ne
po ca be to , bu no ma .
12 12 is in th ma of th ge vi il il in be fe at a di mu gr th th jn in th su kn of th po of a fe .
th is ju wh wo be ex if co co is be us to re co fe ac .
an li is th wh co co re in , th is a te fo th co to in .
to co di te , it is pr ne to ha la in op wi ea re
co co an fo an
th is an ap an be co co an fo an .
co , fo ex , th pr of en th pr ti at wh a cl oc us fo an .
a si cl of no co po at ma di fr .
to en it pr te lo it is su to en di lo fr in ac .
th hi fr ar on ne fo re cl sp cl .
a st wa to ex th lo fr in is to pa di cl di a lo - pa fi wh bl it in ti an th to sa th bl cl at re in .
th us of la re fi in co co is th an of th bl pr , an th ce po of th fi ar di an of di sa po .
th re th th re fi di mu be co wi th sp be fe is th an of di sa th wh st th th li se be sa po mu no ex ha th wa of th sh wa co al th th bl pr .
th an is no pe , ho , be a fo en is no us to re a co di ra ti a nu of di fe po , an ea co in di fo en is a re - va nu ra th a se of bi ac le .
co co an co da - st
in a co co , an pi of th ge pu me ca be us fo an da - st .
th al th co to ge by wi mu le me th wo be re if it ha to se as , in ad , a sp pi of me fo ea po da - st .
th ec is po be , on an on oc , on a ve sm fr of al th po da - st ne to be pr , so th ve sa pi of me ca be us fo di da - st on di oc .
in a ne in wh th kn is st in th co st , it is mu ha to ma un st fo di th on di oc .
to be ef as a re , ac in a un mu ha th ri ca ef on ot re , so un th st of it ou co ca be ch ra , th " me " of a un ca ea be ch .
co co al th sa un to be us to he re ma di fe at di ti wi ch th co st .
th pe of th re fi is wh do th wo of
th is re fu re .
ca up th sp of po fe in sm zo .
12 on an on oc , mo of th pe of a gi un wi be ir be th ot ac un wi al ha lo th fe fa ac an so it wi be kn no to be ne mo of th pe .
ho , th pa of ti pe wh in th re re of un le by th ot un wi ac to in th ac , be th st of th un wi in wh th fe fa in or ou of th pa of th pe ( se fi 12 ) .
on di oc , di pa of th pe wi be do th wo .
th ab to us th sa un in di wa on di oc is a sm st to th fl us of re ca th ma co co so po .
if a un ha a re fi wi a la pe , it ma do di wo on di oc .
th ma co of th un in pi do th pr pa of a fe po de on th ra of un le by th ot un .
qu di pa of th pe of un a ar re on di oc .
on ob we of co co is th un wh fi ha a la ov te to ha hi co st .
th is in .
to ma th ac , th in un sh ha un re fi , so th ac in on un pr no in ab ac in ot un .
th is ju wh is ac by th st bi re of co qu .
un , bi re ar di to us in sy wh al th kn is in th co be th re fi of th le si di is ve di , wh us ma it ha to st us kn in th st of th co em fr th un
^t is wh th ac is pr to th ma of th pe .
ge to no - co sp
th pr un co co ca be ge to no - co sp by th of a se of it as di eq of a re fi .
a lo re us on un fo ea po it .
a di re us a un fo a se of it , an it im en a pa it as th in of di se th co to th ac un .
in di do of sp fe di is ge a ve st re : se of fe wi si pa va ne to ha si ef on ot re .
co co is ef be it al th re to be ex in di co st .
in ot do , th re ar di , bu th ef ar ar th sa : it is be to de a un to a se of it th to a si it , pr th se is ch in su a wa th me of di se im so ab me of od se .
th im ca th be ca as a co st .
it is , of co , a ve di se pr to de wh pa se of it sh co to id , a se sh be ch so di me of th se ha st im fo me of ot se di ar al en by in un .
th ab to di su se is cr if di re ar to be ef , bu th re is no co wi th le pr .
th in re is re to hi , sc & ac ( 12 ) wh a mc of fi go se is de in de .
12 : im an ar ma be tw do
th se sh ho a di re in on gr of un ca ca an ap di re in an gr of un .
we co di pr of im an ar pa be re in th tw gr , an we ta as an ex th as be th vi fo of a wo an it me .
th re fo co an ar ma is th th is th ca in wh lo re se mo he .
if di re ar be ev in th ca , th th ar ce be in ca wh th ar un re th ca be ca by re in be un in on gr an un in an .
if we re ou to mo - mo wo , th ma fr st of gr on me ap to be ar in th se th kn wh so st of gr me do no he on pr wh a ne st me .
12 th ar in th ma fr gr to me is wh
12 12 fo mo - mo wo th ma be pa fr th ha as me .
fo ex , wo st wi ms m us me so un to do wi th li or no ( sn , sn , sn ) , an wo wi lo vo ar mo li to st fo la sl th th wo wi sh vo ( ge la , pe co ) .
mu of le ca ' s po re on su ef .
gi pl to mo th ha ex wo un .
it is ob th ar ma ca be im if th ar su un .
a gr st ac ex on wo un , an th ac wh me we wi to as wi it ( se fi 12 ) .
th se of si gr st ca th be co in be th ar me by se wo un .
th is no of th au ge th is ch of di re .
it is no at al ob th ar ma ca be im in a sy wh th in la of un en th wo as a di pa of ac in of as ac in a si lo un .
th di al ap to ha a se dr .
th ef of a pa of ac on ot re is th co re of th in ef of th ac un in th pa .
so si pa te to ha si ef .
it ap th we ar no fr to ma a gi pa ha wh ef we wi on th me re , wi th al th ef th ot pa ha .
th ki of in ap to ma it di to im ar ma fr di re of wo on me re .
i sh no sh th th in ar wr , an th di re of wo ca wo pe we an ma ev be mo ef th si
fi 12 sh a th - la sy in wh gr / po un fe in " wo - se " un wh , in tu , fe in " se " or " se " un .
fo si , we sh as th ea un is ei ac ( th as ca be re wi or in , an th th is no fe or cr - ta .
th ar ) .
a wo - se un is ac wh gr / po un co a wo in a pa se th se co be al th fo - le wo st wi " he " , fo ex , or al th wo co at le tw " t m , s .
al th is re is th it is po to de wh a wo is in th se by ap a si te to th ac gr / po un .
so , fo ex , th se of al wo me " ni " is no al as a wo - se 12 re to fi 12 , th qu is wh it is po to im an ar se of as be gr / po ve an se ve wh th wo - se un ar ea ac by mo th on wo .
it wi be su to co ju on of th ma po sp mo .
le us as th an ac wo - se un pr po in to al th se un th oc in th me of an wo in di wo - se le us al as th ea se un ha a va th th is dy ad to be ju
th pa of
mo of th ty , an cl re va , ha be an by wi ( 12 ) , do ( pe co ) , an by
da zi ( un wo ta , 12 )
12 12 is an im as th wo me ca be re as se of se .
th is a co is .
th ap to be a gu be th co vi in wh a me is a se of fe an th st vi in wh th ;t re to ot me .
se 12 di on wa of in th me of a wo ca on be de in te of tw vi by al ar re to be bu ou of a nu of di se of ac fe .
fi 12 : a fr of a th la ne .
th bo la co un th re pa gr in pa po wi th wo .
th mi la co un th re co wo , an th to la co un th re se fe of th me of th wo .
th ne us lo re of wo in th mi la .
fi 12 : th to an bo la ar th sa as in fi 12 , bu th mi la us a mo di re .
ea un in th la ca be ac by th gr re of an on of a wh se of wo .
th un th pr in to ev se fe th oc in th me of an of th wo th ac it .
on th wo - se co th wo " ca " ar sh in th ex .
no th th on se fe wh re in fr al th wo - se ar th se fe of ca
sl le th th nu of ac wo - se un .
on se un th ar re in fr ev
ac wo - se un wi di be ac .
al th se of th co wo wi be ac , be ea of th se wi oc in th me of on of th wo in th ac wo - se .
ho , ad se ma al be ac be , ju by ch , di ma re in fr ev ac wo - se un .
fo a se to re le in th it th , th mu be at le on ac wo - se th do no co an wo wh ha di se as pa of it me .
fo ea ac wo - se th pr , / , of di ha is :
/ = ( l - p ) < * - d
wh p is th pr of wo th co th se an w is th nu of wo in di wo - se of th wo - se un th re fo th te w - 12 is th th se is al as no to be pa of th me of th co wo , so th ar on w - 12 re wo th co ha it in th me .
as di wh a wo is co at di gr le it ac u un at th wo - se le .
ea se th is no pa of th wo ' s me ha a pr / of fa to re in fr ea wo - se un .
th pr , / th al of di wo - se un wi pr in to it is th
/ = ( l - 12 "
by in , th pr of a " fa po " se re to ze wh w is 12
ta 12 sh th va of / fo va co of va of p , w , an w .
no th if p is ve sm , / c an re ne ev if w is qu la .
th me th di re in wh ea wo - se un pa in th re of ma wo , do no le to er if th se fe ar re sp in di se di ea wo me co on a sm fr of th to se of se .
so th wo - se un ca be fa no - sp pr th se un ar fa sp ( no sh by to ma di wo me ) .
so of th en in th ta ma it cl th fo so va of p , th ca be a ne ch of er ev th th nu of wo - se un is co le th th nu of wo ( th ra of wo to wo - se un is w / u ) .
th ex de ab ma ma si as .
fo ex , ea wo - se un is
12 x 12 ~ 12 12 x 12 " 12
12 x 12 12 ~ n 12 x 12 " 12 12 x 12 " 12
12 x 12 " ' 12 x 12 12 " 12
. 12 12 x . 12 12 x
ta 12 : th pr , f , of a fa po se as a fu of th nu of ac wo - se un pe wo , u , th nu of wo in ea wo - se , w , an th pr , p , of a se be pa of a wo me .
as to be co to ev re se un if an of th co we mi , we co no af to gi th se un a th eq to th nu of ac wo se un .
to al fo mi co we co lo th th , bu th wo in th fa - po er ra .
al , we co ma ea wo - se un ve th se th do no oc in an of it wo .
th sc is fa mo ro ag mi co , be th ab of on ve ca be to if th ar ot ve ( ve do , pe co ) .
th ar tw mo si as bo of wh le to an un of th ef of di re fo th ar ma ta .
fi , th ca as th th is no fi - tu pr fo in so we an de ot to im pe in th ca wh th mo fr er oc .
se , th ca ig cr - ta am th se .
if ea wo - me is a fa st pa of se th wi be a st " cl - up " ef wh te to su er se as so as th pa of ac at th se le is
su cl to th fa pa fo a pa wo - me .
in am th se al ' pr an ex fo th ab of a si gr st ( e . g .
" ba " ) to el tw qu di me .
th " bo - up " ef of th ac wo - se un he bo se of se , bu as so as " to - do " fa gi an ad to on me , th se in th ot me wi be su by co in at th se le ( ka an an , 12 ) .
as so as th is cr - ta am th se un an fi tu of in we to av fr er , th re st - fo pr an gi ab t te do .
to gi th cr - ta ti to cl up th ou , it h ne to us an it pr in of th si " st - th " pr in wh ea la co de di st of al th un in th su la in a si , sy st .
sy co cr - ta , fe , an as pr el ar pr mo re as mo of th br , bu th ar ge ve ha to an .
ho , th is a sp su of th mo co sy th be in a tr wa an is ca of in ki of se an le be ( hi , se & ac , 12 ) .
it us pr el th ar in st .
su , th us of st el ma th ne be at pe se , be at le , an ea to an .
a si ne of th ki is us to il so of di cl ab di ab to " cl up " th ou by us in am se un , an th ab to av er by fi tu th ap we .
th ne co 12 gr un , 12 wo - se un , an 12 se un .
th ar no di co be gr an se un , bu ea wo - se un is co to al th gr an se un .
th gr un ar di in th se of te , an ea th - le wo ha on ac un in ea gr of te ( un ca on ha ac le of 12 or 12 ) .
th " me " of a wo is ch at ra by se ea se un to be ac wi a pr of 12 .
th ne sh in fi 12 ha le to as 12 di gr st wi th ch me .
ea wo - se un is in in th re of ma wo , an ea wo in ma
hi & se ( in pr ) de th de of th le pr wh wa us to cr th ne an th se pr wh wa us to se on a se of ac se wh gi th gr in he we si su th ma re of th si .
af a lo pe of le , th ne wa ab to pr th co pa of se 12 of th ti wh gi a gr in re of an on of th wo - se un af th le ty ca a sl ri in th er ra fo se di wo ra th th co lo of on wo
fi 12 : a co di th sh al th co st in a th - la ne wh ca ma 12 di gr st in th co co of ac se fe .
th to 12 ro of th di ar th se un , th mi tw ro ar th in un , an th bo th ro ar th gr un .
wi ea un , th bl or wh bl sh th st of it co to ot un .
wh bl ar po co , bl ar ne , an th ma of a bl re ui st of th
co .
fh re po of a bl wi a un in th re po wi th wh ne of th ot un in in th co ( it is as if ea un co a li ma of th wh ne ) .
al co st ar th sa in bo di , so ev st is re tw in th di .
in th po wh th co be a un an it wo be di , th th of th un is sh ( bl me a po th )
12 , 12 te wi a mi wo - se un ti we 12 er .
so of di co of on or tw mi or ex se , bu 12 of th er we ex di pa of se of so ot wo .
th is a re of th co in am di se un .
if di in co fr di wo - se un is no , di cl up ef ma se on a si bu in me .
th ef is re of a ph ca de dy wh oc wi ce ki of br da in ad .
wh sh a wo an as to re it , th su wi so sa a di wo wi a ve si me .
th in wo so ha a ve di so an sp .
fo ex , wh sh th wo " pe " th su mi sa " ap " ( se co & pa ( 12 ) fo mo in ab ac dy ) .
se er of th ki se bi be it se as if th su mu ha ac di le it pe in or to ma di sc re er , an if he ca ge to di le it wh ca ' t he sa it ? ( th su ma kn an be ab to sa th wo di th mi ) .
di re al us to di wi th ri di be ac a wo an no ac it .
in a ne th ha le th wo " pe " , th gr re of " pe " wi ca ap th ri in to th se un , an in at th se le ca di ca ex th pa of se fo ap .
an ps in ef oc wh di ne re af it ha be da .
th ne wa da by ad no to ev co di in a wo - se un .
th re th pe fr 12 co to 12 .
12 th ne wa th re an it ex ve ra re , mu fa di it or ra of le wh it pe wa 12 co .
th ra re ' wa pr by a ge ar wh sh th th is so sp ab a se of co st th is ge by ad no to a ne - pe se th re se is ve di fr ot se of co st th ex di sa pe , ( se hi & se , in pr ,
an ev mo su ef oc if a fe of th wo ar om fr th re .
th er ra fo th wo is su re as th re pr , ev th th ot gr - se pa ha no in re to th be al th pa we se ra .
th " sp " re of wo th th ne is no sh ag is a re of th us of di re .
al th we ar in in en th su of th wo th ar sh du re , an so th ad no te to be re fr ev we .
a sc th us a se un fo ea wo wo no be in th wa , so on ca vi sp re of un it as a
12 12 t he er ra wa 12 ra th 12 in th ex be
ef ha le ti to se on th op ou
th ne wa fo to re fa , so th co
qu si of di re .
12 : cr ne co
an pl sc fo re kn mu be ca of le no co th co no be an at th ti di ne wa in wi up .
a sc di us lo re mu fi ma a di de ab wh to fo a ne co , an th it mu fi a sp ha un th ha su co fo im th co in .
fi su a un ma be di if we as th , af a pe of ea de , ne kn is in by ch th st of di ex co ra di by gr ne on .
if ea un on ha co to a sm fr of th ot , th wi pr no be an un th ar co to ju th ri ot on to im a ne co .
fo ex , in a co of a mi un ea co at ra to te th ot , th ch of th be an un th is co to a pa se of 12 ot is on on in a mi .
in an at to re lo re fr th pr , se cl sc ha be pr th us tw cl of un .
th un di co to co ar no di co to on an .
in , th co ar im by in pa th se la of in un ( fa , 12 fc , 12 ) .
th sc wo be di nu of po pa th th in la fa ex th to nu of ph co .
if th ar k la of un ea of wh ha a fa - ou of n co to ra se un in th fo la , th ar n k po pa .
th is al ce to be a pa co an tw co - un , an so th in un al th pa ca be de to co di tw co - un .
ho , th sc en up ha to de se in un to ea ef co , an on th de ha oc , al bu on of th ac co em fr ea in un ar wa .
th us of se in un to cr a si ef co ma be ap in sw ne co el th ha un wi re sm fa - ou bu it se to be an in wa of us th ha of th br .
th pr of fi a un to st fo a ne co an wi it up ap do no ar if we us di re .
al we ne to do is mo th in be un so as to cr a ne st pa of ac .
if th is do by mo a la nu of co ve sl , th cr of a ne pa ne no di di ex re .
th di pr is to ch an ap pa fo th ne co .
th ef of th ne re on re in ot pa of th sy wi be de by th un th ar ac , an so it is im to us a co of ac un th ha ro th co ef .
fi - tu of th ef of th ne pa ca be
ac by sl al th ef of th ac un it co , bu it wo be un to ch a ra pa fo a ne co , be ma ch wo th be ne in di we , an di wo di ot kn .
id , th di re th is ch fo a ne co sh be th on th re th le mo of we to ma th ne pa st an to ma it ha th re ef on ot re .
na , it is no ne to cr a ne st pa al in on st .
it is po fo th pa to em as a re of mo on ma se oc .
th al an aw pr th a / is wi lo re : th sy mu ma a di al - or - no de ab wh to cr a ne co .
if we vi co as st pa th ar mu le di in ch .
it is po , fo ex , to di on st pa in tw cl re bu di va by mo so of th we sl .
un we ar al to cl th ha un ( an al th co ) , th ki of gr co di is mu ha to ac wi lo re .
12 : re co st
an sy wh at to im th ki of co st th pe us ha to be ca of re tw ra di ki of hi .
th fi is th " is " hi th re ty to in of th ty .
th se is di pa / wh hi th re it to di co it th th ar co of .
th mo im ch of th is hi ar th kn pr of th ty mu be " in " by th in , an pr th ar fo to ap to al in of a ty mu no be at to th ty .
in se 12 we sa ho th is hi ca be im by ma th di re of an in in , as a su , th di re fo th ty .
th re tr au yi th mo im ch of th is hi , bu th tr ca on be us fo on ki of hi .
if we us th pa / wh re be pa of ac to re th ty / in re be it , it ap th we ca al us it to re th pa / wh re be it .
we ca ma th re of th wh be th su of th re of it pa .
th qu of ho to re th re be an it an th co it of wh it is co ha be a ma st bl fo th di po di re .
in th ri , lo sc , a wh is a no th is li by la ar to th no fo it pa .
bu th ce te of th di sc is th di it co to al pa of ac in th sa se of un , so it se as if a wh an it pa ca bo be re at th sa ti .
i ca on se on wa ou of th di .
it re on th fa th wh ar no si th su of th
pa , ll ar co of pa di pl pa ro wi di wh st .
a sh , fo ex , is co of sm sh th ha a pa si , or an po re to th wh .
ea co sh ha it ow sp ro , an di wh sh is co of a se of sh / ro pa .
12 si , a pr is co of ob di oc pa se ro in th wh pr st .
th su a wa of im di re be wh an pa : th id of ea pa sh fi be co wi it ro to pr a si pa th re th co of th id an th ro , an th th di re fo th wh sh co of th su of th di re fo di id / ro co ( pl so ad " em " fe ) .
12 th pr di fr di si id di di re of th wh is th su of th re of it pa , be di su us to re id / ro co ar qu di fr di pa us to re th id al .
th do no , fo ex , co th pa as pa .
na , th mu be an ac pa be th re of an it as a wh in it ow ri an th re of th sa it pl a pa ro wi a la st .
it mu be po , fo ex , to ge th id / ro re fr tw se , ex , di pa on of wh re th id an th ot of wh re th ro .
it mu al be po to go th ot wa an ge th ex re of th id an ro fr th si co re of th id / ro co ( se fi 12 ) .
th us of pa di re id / ro co al th pa / wh hi to be re in th sa wa as th ty / in hi .
a wh is si a pa in of a nu of mo ge ty , ea of wh ca be de as th ty th ha a pa ki of pa pl a pa ro ( e . g me wi wo le ) .
se sy pr
if co st is im in th wa de ab , th is a se is ab ho ma st ca be ac at an on ti .
th ob wa to al th ha is to us a gr of un fo ea po ro wi a st an to ma di pa of ac in di gr re th id of th co th is cu pl th ro .
th im th on on st ca be re at a ti , wh is cl a ve se re .
ho , pe do se to su fr st co
re be pa ar mp as we .
on ad of ex re sh / ro pa is th it al di pa to su ea ot .
on ca vi th va di lo wi an ob as sl an th sh of pa of an ob as th fi of th sl .
kn of a wh sh ca th be im by po in be th va
se hi , 12 fo a si th us th re te .
fi 12 : a sk of th ap th mi be ne fo co se re of an id an a ro in a si pa .
on on id an on on ro ca be ex re at a ti be th id an ro gr ca ea on ha on pa of ac at a ti .
ho , th va ro gr al ma id / ro co to be en si .
th sm tr sy re th ab of th pa of ac in th gr th ex re a ro to de wh on of th ma ro gr is cu in wi th id gr .
th al th id oc a pa ro to be " re ou " as we as al th re op of co an id an a ro .
on th nu of st of th sa ge ty th th ca pr at on .
to a fi ap , pe ar se sy pr ( ne , 12 ) .
th sc th th ex at th hi le of de is in su gi th ma pa ar of th br , bu it be mu ea to un if we ab ou lo pr in fa of th di al wh us th pa to gi ea ac re a ve ri in st th al th ri ki of ge an co - ad .
on ce te of th se sy pr ap ( ne , 12 ) is th ab to fo on an pa of a st an to ex th in a wh th is ju as ri in co as th or wh of wh it wa a pa .
th re ab to ex pa of a st fo in ma le , an th in ab to pa up wh st in a re fo th al th to be us as co of la st is th es of sy pr .
it al a sy to bu st ou of th th re to ot wh st wi re th th ot st be re in al th
in co co im th ab is ac by us po .
th ar ve co bu th de on th us of ad .
in a pa ne , we ne so th is fu eq to ar po in or to im sy pr .
th is ex wh is pr by su th st fo id / ro co .
th al th fu id of th pa to be ac fr a re of th wh an a re of th ro th th sy wi to fo on , an th al al ex re of an id an a ro to be co in a le cu re , so th se id / ro co ca be re si in or to fo th re of a la st .
gi a pa ne , it ca be re by ac in a si , lo un , or by a pa of ac in a la se of un wi ea un en a " mi - fe " of di it .
di re ar ef wh th ar un re wh ca be ca by in am mi - fe .
by en ea pi of kn as a la se of in it is po to ac us pr li co - ad me an au ge , an ne it ca be cr wi ha to cr ne co at th ha le .
in th do of co va sp fe it is re ea to pr a ma an of th ad an dr of us di re .
di re se to be un fo im pu ar ma be
th is no un st an so ge on ca un in .
ho , ev fo di ta , di re ca be ma fa ef an th ex so ps in ef wh da .
th ar se ve ha pr th mu be so be di re ca be us ef .
on is to de on th pa of ac di is to be us fo re an it .
th si be th ch pa an od ex pa wi de di ki of ge an in th oc .
th se fo go pa to us is eq to th se fo th un re of th do .
th le pr is no ad he .
th in re is re to hi , se & ac ( 12 ) .
an ha pr is to cl th re be di re an te us in ar in li sc , or hi st de .
ex ar in pr ha gr di in ra fi th sc th be fi th cu si .
pa ne of th po of ra ap a lo of kn to th be - fi se , bu th po wi on be re wh di is a go wa of im sc in pa ne .
