on wa of mo a co , hi - di da di is to us a la nu of re si pr mo an so co th di sp by ea mo .
a we - kn ex of th ap is a mi of ga in wh ea si mo is a ga , an th co ru co of ta a we ar - me me of th in di .
th is eq to as an ov ge mo in wh ea da ve is ge by rs ch on of th in ge mo an th al th in mo to ge th da ve .
co mo by fo - in a mi is at fo se re .
it is ea to t mi of tr mo to da us ex - ma ( em ) or gr as , an mi ar us co mo po th th in - di co .
in , if su ma mo ar in in c ( ci : 12 ) 12 ma in of te
ne co 12 , 12 ( 12 )
ge e .
hi
th mi , it is po to ap co sm di
un , mi mo ar ve in in hi - di sp .
co , fo ex , th ma of fa im .
it ta ab 12 re nu to sp th sh , po , ex , an il of a fa , an un go vi co , ou pe sy pr a sh po di on th 12 - di ma .
th ca be do us a mi of mo , ea tu in th 12 - di ma , be th po di ca be sh th th in mo in th mi an th in mo mu be br tu to al th to co th 12 - di ma .
a ve di wa of co di is to mu th to - ge an re .
hi - di di , fo ex , ar of ap as th pr of on - di di .
if th in di ar un - or mu ga , th pr wi al be a mu ga so , un mi of ga , pr - uc of ga ca ap ar sm di .
if , ho , th in mo ar a bi mo co an ea co - ta on or mo la ( i . e . , hi ) va , mu th di - ti to ( an re ) ca be ve po .
in mo of th ki wi be ca ex .
pr of ex ( po ) ca pr mu sh di th th in ex mo .
fo ex , ea ex mo ca co - st a di su of th di in a hi - di sp , an th pr wi th co al of th di .
fo mo ha - wr di , on lo - re mo ca ge im th ha th ap ov sh of th di , an ot mo lo mo ca en th sm im pa co se of st wi th co ne st .
fo mo se , ea ex ca en a nu of li kn .
fo ex , on ex co en th th te ag , on co en th th is nu ag be th su an ve , an on co en th st in wh co ad fo si ad ar mo pr th th th re .
fi a po to da ap di be it ap to be ne to co th de , wi re to th pa , of th pa fu th is us in th re .
as we sh se , ho , th de ca be ne by op a le ob ob fu th th lo li of th da .
12 le pr of ex by ma li
we co in ex mo fo wh it is tr to co th de of th lo pr of a da ve wi re to th
tr pr of ex
pa of th ex .
we co n in ex mo as fo :
p ( d | 12 , .
, n ) = m fm ( d | m ) m fm ( c | m )
wh d is a da ve in a di sp , m is al th pa of in mo m , fm ( d | m ) is th pr of d un mo m , an c in al po ve in th da sp . 12 fo co da sp , th su is re by th ap in .
fo an in ex to t th da we , it mu gi hi pr to th ob da , an it mu wa as li pr as po on th re of th da sp .
a po , ho , ca t th da we ev if ea ex wa a lo of it pr on in re of th da sp , pr di ex wa pr in di re .
th ob wa to t a po to a se of ob in an id di ( i . i . d . ) da ve 12 is to fo th de of th lo li of ea ob ve , d , un th po .
th is gi by
lo p ( d | 12 ,
= lo fm ( d | m )
p ( c | 12 ,
lo fm ( c | m )
th se te on th ri - ha si of eq 12 is ju th ex - pe de of th lo pr of an ex on fa da , c , th is ge fr th po .
so as th ea of th in ex ha a tr de , th ob di in es th de of th lo pr of th da un th po is ge co di - tr fa da .
th ca be do in va wa .
fo di da , it is po to us re sa .
ea ex ge a da ve - to in , an th pr is re un al th ex ha to ag .
re sa is a go wa of un ho a po sp an ov pr di an ho di it is fr a ca mo , bu it is ty ve in .
gi sa is ty mu mo ef .
in gi sa , ea va dr a sa fr it po di gi th cu st of th ot va ( ge - ma & ge , 12 ) .
gi th da , th hi st of al th ex ca al be up in pa be th ar co in - de .
th is an im co of th pr fo . 12 if th
wi ge be a pr in th ar .
12 so lo as fm ( d | m ) is po , it do no ne to be a pr at al , th it 12 fo ti - se mo , d is a wh se .
12 th co in is ob in th un gr mo of a po be th on pa be th hi st of tw ex is vi th ob da .
ge e .
hi
fi 12 : a vi of al gi sa .
at ti 12 , th vi va re a da ve , an th hi va of al th ex ar up in pa wi sa fr th po di gi th vi va .
at ti 12 , th vi va ar al up to pr a re - co of th or da ve fr th hi va , an th th hi va ar ag up in pa .
if th pr is re su - ci of , it is po to ge ar cl to th eq di .
th co ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) sh on th co be vi an hi va ar th st us fo le in rb , wh ar de in
in ex al ha th pr th th co of th da ve ar co in gi th hi st of th ex , th hi an vi va fo a bi gr , an it is po to up al of th co of th da ve in pa gi th hi st of al th ex .
so gi sa ca al be pa up of th hi an vi va ( se fi 12 ) .
to ge an un - bi es of th gr fo th po , it is ne fo th ma ch to co to th eq di .
un , ev if it is co fe to ap th eq - li di be ta sa , th is a se , se di - cu .
sa fr th eq di ge ha hi va - an si th co fr al ov th mo di .
th hi va - an sw th es of th de .
wo st , th va in th sa de on th pa of th mo .
th va in th va - an ca th pa to be re fr re of hi va ev if th gr is ze .
to un th su ef , co a ho - ta sh of ti th is re in su a wa th so pa ha st ve os an ot pa ar mo .
sa sc on th ti wi ac in th mo ar ev th th ti - av gr is ze ev .
12 le by mi co di
ma th lo li of th da ( av ov th da di - ti ) is eq to mi th ku - le di be th da di , p1 , an th eq di ov th vi -
tr pr of ex
, th is pr by pr gi sa fr th bl va , p
p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
p1 ( d ) lo p1 ( d ) = h ( p1 ) ( ci : 12 ) lo p
p1 ( d ) lo p
wh ( ci : 12 ) de a ku - le di , th an br de ex ov th di sp as a su , an h ( p1 ) is th en of th da di .
p1 do no de on th pa of th
mo , so h ( p1 ) ca be ig du th op .
no th p is ju an wa of wr p ( d | 12 , .
eq 12 , av ov th da di , ca be re as
wh lo fm is a ra va th co be wr as lo fm ( d | m ) wi d it be a ra va co to th da .
th is a si an ef al to ma li le th el - in al al of th co re to ge sa fr th eq - li di an al el mu of th va th ma th gr si .
th al ap in op a di - en ob fu .
in of ju mi p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
, we mi th di be p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
is th di ov th on - st re of th da ve ge by on fu st of gi sa ( se fi 12 ) .
th in mo fo us th co di is th we wo li th ma ch th is im by gi sa to le th in di p1 ov th vi va un .
in of ru th ch to eq an co th in an na de , we ca si ru th ch fo on fu st an th up th pa to re th te of th ch to wa aw fr th in di on th rs st .
be p1 is on st cl to th eq di th p1 , we ar gu th p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
un p1 eq p1 , so th co di ca ne be ne .
al , fo ma ch in wh al tr ha no im p1 = p pr , p1 = p1
, be if th di do no
12 p1 is a na wa to de th da di if we im st a ma
ch at th da di at ti 12
ge e .
hi
ch at al on th rs st , it mu al be at eq , so th co di ca be ze on if th mo is pe . 12
an wa of un co di le is to vi it as a me of el al th wa in wh th po mo wo li to di th tr da .
th is do by en th , on av , th re is no mo pr un th po mo th th or
th ma mo fo th co di is th th in -
on th ri - ha si of eq 12 ca
tr ex ov p
( p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
if ea ex is ch to be tr , it is po to co th ex va of th de of lo fm ( d | m ) fo a da ve , d .
it is al st to sa fr p1 an p1 , so th rs tw te on th ri - ha si of eq 12 ar tr .
by de , th fo pr pr an un sa fr p1
pi a da ve , d , fr th di of th da p1
co , fo ea ex se , th po pr di - bu ov it la ( i . e . , hi ) va gi th da ve ,
pi a va fo ea la va fr it po di .
gi th ch va of al th la va , co th co - di di ov al th vi va by mu to - ge th co di sp by ea ex an re -
pi a va fo ea vi va fr th co di .
th va co th re da ve , d .
th th te on th ri - ha si of eq 12 re th ef
of th ch of th di of th on - st re ca by a ch in m .
it is pr to co , bu ex si - la ( se se 12 ) sh th it ca sa be ig be it is sm
12 it is ob po to ma th co di sm by us a ma ch th mi ve sl , ev if th da di is ve fa fr th ev eq di .
it is th im to en mi by us te su as we de th en th ev po vi ve ha a no pr - bi gi th st of th hi va .
tr pr of ex
an se op th re of th ot tw te .
th pa of th ex ca th be ad in pr to th ap de of th co di :
th wo ve we in pr ev wh a si re of ea da ve is us in pl of th fu pr di ov re - co .
th di in th de of th da ve an th re ha so va be th re pr is st .
bu wh th po is mo th da mo we , th on - st re wi be ve si to th da , so th va wi be ve sm .
th cl ma be a da ve an it re re sa va in mu th sa wa as th us of ma pa fo ex an co co in a cl tr .
th lo va ma it fe to pe on - li le af ea da ve is pr , th th si de in th ar us mi - ba le in wh th pa up ar ba on th su gr - en me on a ro su of th co tr se . 12
th is an al ju fo th le al in eq - ti 12 .
in hi - di da se , th da ne al li on , or cl to , a mu lo - di , sm cu ma .
th po ne to nd pa th ma a sh ri of lo pr al th lo - di ma .
by st wi a po on th ma an en th th ty re fr th la va of al th ex do no ha si hi pr , th po en th th pr di ha th ri lo st .
it is po th th po wi ac as hi pr to ot di an un pa of th da sp , bu th is un if th lo pr su is sm an bo it he an it lo cu ar co at th da po .
it is al po to nd an el su po by pe pr gi sa wi an da , bu th is ju a wa of im th le an no , as in bo ma le , an es pa of it .
12 a si ex
po sh wo ve we on da di th ca be fa in a pr of lo - di di .
th is de in fi 12 an 12
th ar 12 un ex , ea of wh is a
12 mi - ba le ma be us of th ab of ma to ve ac
ge e .
hi
fi 12 : ea do is a da po .
th da ha be tt wi a pr of 12 ex .
th el sh th on st de co of th ga - si in ea ex .
th ex ar in wi ra lo , ci ga th ha ab th sa va as th da .
th ve un ex re va , bu th mi pr , wh de th pr pr wi wh ea of th un ex se it ga ra th it un , re hi .
mi of a un di an a si ax - al ga .
in th tt mo , ea ti da cl is re by th in of tw ex ga , wh ar el al di ax .
us a co - se le ra , th tt re 12 up of th pa .
fo ea up of th pa , th fo co is pe on ev ob da ve :
gi th da , d , ca th po pr of se th ga ra th th un in ea ex an co th rs te on th ri - ha si of eq 12 .
fo ea ex , st se th ga or th un ac - co to th po .
co th no pr of th se - le ga , wh is it a ga , an sa fr it to ge a re ve in th da sp .
to av pr , th is on sp ex th is co to al pi it ga .
co th ne te in eq 12 us th re
12 le a po co
a po ca al be a ve ef mo wh ea ex is qu br tu on ev di an pr is ob by th in of a
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : th hu da po ge by pr gi sa fr th 12 ex tt in fi 12
th gi sa st fr a ra po in th ra of th da an us 12 pa it wi an .
no th th tt mo ge da at th gr po th is mi in th re da .
la nu of ex .
fi 12 sh wh ha wh th co di le al is us to t 12 un ex to 12 - di sy im th ea co on ed .
th ed va in th or , po , an in on ea si of th ed .
th in pr ac th ed wa a si .
ea ex al le a va fo ea pi , an al th va va , in ex di no sp in a sm su of th di .
gi an im , ab ha of th ex ha a hi pr of pi th ga ra th th un .
th pr of th ch ga ar ex re of th im .
th ex at th to of fi 12 lo li ed de in va or , po , an po .
ma of th ex fa do ha ev sy an ar us to lo on en of an ed .
th ea wo fo tw di se of ed th ha op po an di po .
12 in th ex
on wa to in a po is to tr ea ex se , fo th ex to di by gi th di or di we tr ca or by tr th on di su of th da di , or by us di mo cl fo th di ex .
on ea ex ha be in se , th in pr di ne to be ra to a fr po to cr th in po .
se in of th ex se li a se id , bu si - ul in th th po is fa mo li to be tr in po lo op if th ex ar al to sp se .
be so - lu ar ob by si in th ex ra wi ve va di an us th le ru in eq 12 .
ge e .
hi
fi 12 : ( a ) so 12 12 im th ea co a si in ed .
th lo , or , an co of th ed al va .
( b ) th me of al th 12 - di ga in a pr of 12 ex , ea of wh is a mi of a ga an a un .
th po wa tt to 12 im of th ty sh on th le .
th ex ha be or by ha so th qu si ex ar ad .
12 po an bo ma
th bo ma le al ( hi & se , 12 ) is th el an ea to im in ha bu ve sl in ne wi in hi un be of th va pr - le de in se 12
sm ( 12 ) in a re ty of bo ma wi on vi la , on hi la , an no in co .
fr an ha ( 12 ) re th in th re - st bo ma ( rb ) , th pr of ge a vi ve is pr to th pr of th pr th th vi ve - to wo be ge by ea of th hi un ac al .
an rb is th a po wi on ex pe hi un . 12 wh th hi un
12 bo ma an po ar ve di cl of pr ge
mo , an th in of th tw cl is rb .
tr pr of ex
of an ex is of , it sp a se pr di in wh ea vi un is eq li to be on or of .
wh th hi un is on , it sp a di fa di by us th we on it co to ea vi un to sp th lo od th th vi un is on .
mu to th di ov th vi st sp - ed by di ex is ac by si ad th lo od .
ex in of th hi st gi th vi da is tr in an rb be th st of th hi un ar co in gi
th le al gi by eq 12 is ex eq to th st bo le al fo an rb .
co th de of th lo pr of th da wi re to th we wi be a vi un i an a hi un j .
th rs te on th ri - ha si of eq 12 is
lo fj ( d | wj )
= ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) d ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p
wh wj is th ve of we co hi un j to th vi un , ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) d is th ex va of si wh d is cl on th vi un an sj is sa fr it po di gi d , an ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p is th ex va of si wh al gi sa of th hi an vi un is it to ge sa fr th eq di in a ne wh on hi un is j .
th se te on th ri - ha si of eq 12 is :
p ( c | w )
lo fj ( c | wj )
wh w is al of th we in th rb an ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p is th ex va of si wh al gi sa of al th hi an al th vi un is it to ge sa fr th eq di of th rb .
su eq 12 fr eq 12 an ta ex ov
th di of th da gi = ( p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
= ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p1 ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p
th ti re to ap eq an th hi sa va - an in ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p
ma le di .
it is mu mo ef to us th ap gr of th co di .
fo an rb , th ap gr is pa ea to co :
( p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
) ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p1 ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 )
is th ex va of si wh on - st re ar cl on th vi un an sj is sa fr it po di gi th re ( se fi 12 ) .
ge e .
hi
12 le th fe of ha di
wh pr wi re hi - di da , a re bo ma tr to mi th co di us eq 12 sh le a se of pr bi fe th mo th da we .
to te th co , an rb wi 12 hi un an 12 vi un wa tr on 12 12 12 re - va im of ha di fr al 12 cl .
th im , fr th br tr se on th us ce ro , we no in wi an he , bu th we hi va in st .
th pi in we no to li be 12 an 12 so th th co be tr as pr , an eq 12 wa mo to us pr in pl of st bi va fo bo th da an th
( p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
) ( ci : 12 ) pi ( ci : 12 ) p1 ( ci : 12 ) pi ( ci : 12 )
st ch bi st of th hi un we st us fo co th pr of th re pi , bu in of pi bi st fo th pi fr th pr , th pr th we us as th re da ve .
it ta 12 ho in ma 12 on a 12 mh pe ii wo to pe 12 ep of le .
th is mu fa th st bo - ma ma le , co wi th wa - sl al ( hi - to , da , fr , & ne , 12 ) an co sl th us em to t a mi mo wi th sa nu of pa .
in ea ep , th we we up 12 ti us th ap gr of th co di co on mi - ba of si 12 th co 12 ex of ea di cl .
th le ra wa se em to be ab on - qu of th ra th ca di os in th pa - ra .
to im th le sp fu , a mo me wa us .
af th rs 12 ep , th pa up sp by eq - ti 12 we su by ad 12 ti th pr up .
th po le lo fe wh bi st yi al pe re .
fo ea im , ab on - th of th fe we tu on .
so of th le fe ha on - ce of - su re - ti el or vi ve , so lo li pi of st , an so lo li ga lt or wa .
th we of 12 of th hi un , se - le at ra , ar sh in fi 12
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : th re el of a ra se su of th 12 hi un in a po th wa tr on 12 im of di wi eq nu fr ea cl .
ea bl sh th 12 le we co a hi un to th pi .
th sc go fr +1 ( wh ) to 12 ( bl ) .
12 us le mo of ha di fo di
an at as of po is th it is ea to co th nu in eq 12 , so it is ea to co th lo pr of a da ve up to an ad co , lo z , wh is th lo of th de in eq 12 .
un , it is ve ha to co th ad co .
th do no ma if we wa to co on th pr of tw di da ve un th po , bu it ma it di to ev th mo le by a po , be th ob wa to me th su of le is to su th lo pr th th po as to te da ve dr fr th sa di as th tr da bu no us
fo a no de ta , it wo be po to tr a po on no - ma da an th to le a si sc th va fo th un -
ge e .
hi
iz lo pr in or to op di be no da an a fe ab ca .
th ma go us of th ab of a po to pe un le .
it is eq to na ba cl - ca us a ve pr se mo of ab ca th si re th sa le lo pr fo al ab ca .
an al wa to ev th le pr is to le tw di po on di da se su as im of th di 12 an im - ag of th di 12
af le , a te im , t , is pr to po an po , an th co lo p ( t | 12 ) + lo z1 an lo p ( t | 12 ) + lo z1 , re - sp .
if th di be lo z1 an lo z1 is kn , it is ea to pi th mo li cl of th te im , an si th di is on a si nu , it is qu ea to es it di us a se of va im wh la ar kn .
if di pe is th on go an al th re cl ar kn in ad , it is pr - ab se to tr al th pa of a sy di .
in th ar , ho , di pe on th di is us si as a wa of de th un po le ve go mo of th in di cl .
fi 12 sh fe le by a po th co a la of 12 hi un an is tr on 12 im of th di 12
fi 12 sh so pr un te im of 12 an th on - st re fr th bi ac of th po tr on 12 an fr an id po tr on 12 .
fi 12 sh th un lo pr sc of so tr an te im un a mo tr on 12 im of th di 12 an a mo tr on 12 im of th di 12
un , th of te se fo th us di vi th st as th te da sh be dr fr th sa di as th tr da , so he th te im we dr fr th un po of th of tr se .
ev fo th pr un te im , th sc un th tw mo al pe di .
to ac th ex se , it wa ne to us mo wi tw hi la an av th sc fr tw se tr mo of ea di cl .
fo ea di cl , on mo ha 12 un in it rs hi la an 12 in it se hi la .
th ot mo ha 12 in th rs hi la an 12 in th se .
th un in th rs hi la we tr wi re to th se hi la .
af tr th rs hi la , th se hi la wa tr us th pr of fe ac in th rs hi la as th da .
fo te , th sc pr by th tw hi la we si ad to .
om th sc pr by th se hi la le to co wo se of th di cl on te da .
fi 12 sh th un lo pr sc fo pr un te im of 12 an 12 , wh ar th mo di cl to di .
di is no pe , bu it is en th al
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : th we le by 12 hi un tr on 12 12 im of th di 12
th sc go fr +1 ( wh ) to 12 ( bl ) .
no th th el ar mo qu lo .
a lo fe li th on in co 12 , ro 12 lo li an ed de , bu it is be un as a lo de of a te .
su th al th ot ac fe cr an im of a 12 th di fr th da in ha a la lo wh to fa on th bl pa of th re el .
by tu on th fe , th to of th lo ca be re an re by a li se th is a li lo in th im .
of th er ar cl to th de bo , so th ar no co
12 de wi mu cl .
if th ar 12 di po fo th 12 di cl , it is sl le ob ho to us th 12 un sc of a te im fo di .
on po is to us a va se to tr a lo di ne th ta th un lo pr gi by th po an co th in a pr di ac th 12 la .
fi 12 sh th we in a lo
ge e .
hi
fi 12 : th ce ro is pr un im of 12 .
( to ) pi pr - bi wh th im is re fr th bi ac of 12 fe de th ha be tr on 12 .
( bo ) pi pr fo re - st fr th bi st of 12 fe de tr on 12 .
lo sc of bo mo on tr da
lo sc un bo mo on te da
sc un mo
sc un mo
fi 12 : ( a ) th un lo pr sc of th tr im of th di 12 an 12 un th le po fo 12 an 12
( b ) th lo pr sc fo pr un te im of 12 an 12 .
no th go se of th tw cl .
di ne th is tr af tt 12 po mo to th 12 se di cl .
in or to se wh th se hi la we pr us di in , ea po pr tw sc .
th rs sc wa th un lo pr of th pi in un a po mo th co of th un in th rs hi la .
th se sc wa th un lo pr of th pr of ac of th rs la of hi un un a po mo th co of th un in th se hi la .
th we in fi 12 sh th th se la of hi un pr us ad in .
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : th un lo pr sc of th pr un te im of 12 an 12 .
al th cl ar no li se , al th er ar cl to th be se li , so th ar no co er .
pr th is be it ca th wa in wh fe re in th rs hi la ar co .
a se - le mo sh be ab to as hi sc to th ve of hi ac th ar ty of th rs - le 12 mo wh it is gi im of 12 an lo sc to th hi ac of th rs - le 12 mo wh it is gi im th co co of fe th ar no no pr at th sa ti in a 12
th er ra is 12 wh co ve fa wi th 12 er ra of a si ne - ne cl on th sa tr an te se an is ab th sa as th ve be cl ba on el mo of th di ( re , wi , & hi , 12 ) .
if 12 re ar al ( by ch an ap th fo th pr le of th mo pr cl ) , th ar no er on th 12 te im .
se di ne ar we tr fo th di - sp po , an th re re ar fo th ar th di be on th te da .
al th is ty of re on le al , th fa th te da we us fo mo se me th th re re ar a bi es of th pe on ge un te im .
ma an hi ( 12 ) re go co re fo th la mn da , an th we ca to do al th mo se us su of th tr da so th th of te da we us on to me th na er ra .
ge e .
hi
fi 12 : th we le by do mu lo di on th tr da wi th la as ou an th un lo pr sc fr th tr , di - sp po as in .
ea co co to a di cl , st wi di 12
th to ro is th bi fo th cl .
th ne 12 ro ar th we as to th sc th re th lo pr of th pi un th mo le by th rs hi la of ea po .
th la 12 ro ar th we as to th sc th re th lo pr of th pr on th rs hi la un th mo le by th se hi la .
no th al th we in th la 12 ro ar sm , th ar st qu la , wh sh th th sc fr th se hi la pr us , ad di in .
no al th th sc pr by th 12 mo pr us ev in fa of 12 .
12 ho go is th ap ?
th fa th th le pr in eq 12 gi go re in th si de in se 12 , 12 , an 12 su th it is sa to ig th na te in th ri - ha si of eq 12 th co fr th ch in th di p1
to ge an id of th re ma of th te th is be ig - no , ex si we pe us re bo ma wi sm nu of vi an hi un .
by pe co th ar ex in th nu of hi un an th
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : ( a ) a hi of th im in th co di as a re of us eq 12 to pe on up of th we in ea of 12 ne .
th ex va on th ri - ha si of eq 12 we co ex .
th ne ha ei vi an fo hi un .
th in we we ra ch fr a ga wi me 12 an st de 12
th tr da we ch at ra .
( b ) th im in th lo li of th da fo 12 ne ch in ex th sa wa as in fi 12 .
no th th lo li de in tw ca .
th ch in th lo li ar th sa as th ch in p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
bu wi a
it is al po to me wh ha to p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
nu of vi un , it is po to co th ex va of ( ci : 12 ) si ( ci : 12 ) p1
wh th ap in eq 12 is us to up th we by an am th is la co wi th nu pr of th ma bu sm co wi th cu of th co di .
th rb us fo th si ha ra tr da an ra - do we .
th di no ha bi on th vi or hi un .
th ma re ca be su as fo : fo an in we , th ri - ha si of eq 12 , su ov al tr ca , oc - al di in si fr th le - ha si .
bu fo ne co mo th tw un in ea la it is al ce th a pa up of al th we ba on th ri - ha si of eq 12 wi im th co di .
in ot wo , wh we av ov th tr - in da , th ve of pa up gi by th ri - ha si is al ce to ha a po co wi th tr gr de by th le - ha si .
fi 12 is a hi of th im in th co di wh eq 12 wa us to pe on pa - al we up in ea of 12 , 12 ne .
th ne co ei vi an fo hi un , an th we we ch fr a ga di wi me ze an st de 12
wi sm we or la ne , th ap in eq 12 is
ge e .
hi
fi 12 sh th th le pr do no al im th lo li of th tr da , th it ha a st te to do so .
no th on 12 ne we us fo th hi .
fi 12 co th co to th gr of th co di ma by th ri - ha si of eq 12 an by th te th is be ig .
th ve of we up gi by eq 12 ma th co di wo if th do in fi 12 ar ab th di li , so it is cl th in th ne , th ap in
eq 12 is qu sa .
in , we ex p1 to li be p1 an p
cl to p1 , th ch so wh th pa ar ch to mo p
sh al mo p1
th ig ch in p1 an im in th co di ( wh is wh fi 12
to p1 an aw fr th pr po of p
sh ca an in in p1
it is te to in th le ru in eq 12 as ap
op of th co lo li : ( ci : 12 ) p1 ( ci : 12 ) lo p
un , th co lo li ca ac it ma va of 12 by si ma al po ve in th da sp eq pr .
th co di di fr th co lo li - li by in th en of th di p1 an p1 ti 12 ) , an so th hi en of p1 ru ou th so in wh al po da ve ar eq .
12 ot ty of ex
bi st pi ar no un fo mo pr im of ha di in wh in an ba ar re as 12 an 12
in re im , ho , th is ty ve hi mu in - ma be th re - va in of on pi an th re - va in of it ne .
th ca be ca by mo th us bi - na st pi be a bi pi ca ne ha mo th 12 bi of mu in wi an .
it is po to us mu pi - el th ha n di va .
th is a cl so fo im be it fa to ca th co an on - di of pi in , th it ma be us fo ot ty of da .
a be ap is to im re ea vi un so th a pi co to a wh se of bi vi un th al ha id we to th hi un .
th nu of ac un in th se ca th ap a re - va in - te .
du re , th nu of ac un wi be bi di , an be al th re ha th sa we , th si pr th co th bi di ne to be co on on .
th sa tr ca be us to al re hi un to
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : a sc pl th sh th re ma of th mo an un ef of a pa we up on th co di .
th 12 ne us fo th gu ha 12 vi an 12 hi un , an th we ar dr fr a ze - me ga wi a st de of 12
th ho ax sh ( p1 ( ci : 12 ) p ) ( p1 ( ci : 12 ) p
( ne ) ) wh ol an ne de th di be an af th we up .
th mo re in th co di di fr th tr re be it ig th fa th ch th we ch th di of th on - st re .
th in in th ( ne ) ( ci : 12 ) p
co di du to th ig te , p1 is pl on th ve ax .
po ab th di li wo co to ca in wh th un in ou th mo de , so th th ne ef wa to ma th co di wo .
no th th un ef al al ca an ad im in th co di ra th be in co wi th mo ef .
ap re va us bi di in st .
a se of re un ca be vi as a co ch ap to un wh we ac di , or it ca be vi as a st ap to th be of a si un ov ti , in wh ca th nu of ac re is a ri ra .
te an hi ( 12 ) ha sh th th ty of ra co ca be qu ef fo mo re - va im of fa , pr th im ar no .
an al to re hi un is to us un ex th ea co of a mi of a un di an a fa an
ge e .
hi
wi ju on fa .
ea ex ha a bi la va th sp wh to us th un or th fa an an a re - va la va th sp th va of th fa ( if it is be us ) .
th fa an ha th se of pa : a ve of fa lo th sp - if th di of th fa in im sp , a ve of me in im sp , an a ve of va in im sp . 12 ex of th ty ha be ex in th co of di ac gr ( hi , sa , & gh , 12 ) , bu th sh wo be in a po .
an al to us a la nu of re si ex is to ma ea ex as co as po , wh re th ab to co th ex de of th lo li of th da wi re to th pa of an ex .
in mo st im , fo ex , ea ex co be a mi of ma ax - al ga .
so ex mi fo on on re of an im by us ve hi va fo pi ou th re .
bu so lo as th re mo by di ex ov , it sh be po to av bl bo ar .
12 pr of hi ma mo .
hi ma mo ( hm ) ar of gr pr va in mo se of di sy or se of re - va ve be th is an ef al fo up th pa of th hm to im th lo li - li of a se of ob se .
hm ar , ho , qu li in th ge po be th on wa th th po of a st ge up to ti t ca co th po of th st ge af ti t is by th di hi st of th ge at ti t .
so if th rs pa of a st ha , on av , n bi of mu in wi th re of th st , th hm mu ha 12 hi st to co th mu in - fo by it ch of hi st .
th ex in ca be ov by us a pr of hm as a ge .
du ge , ea hm ge to pi a hi st at ea ti so th mu in - ti be th pa an th fu ca be li in th nu of hm .
it is th ex mo ef to ha ma sm hm th on bi on .
ho , to ap th st fo - ba al to a pr of hm , it is ne to ta th cr - pr of th st - sp , wh th aw th ex wi .
fo pr of hm to be of pr si , it is ne to nd an ef wa to tr
an br ( br & hi , 12 ) ha sh th th le al in eq 12 wo we .
th fo - ba al is us to ge th gr of th lo li of an ob or re
12 th la tw se of pa ar ex eq to th pa of a un - ga ex in in se 12 , so a un ex ca be co to be a mi of a un wi a fa an th ha no fa .
tr pr of ex
fi 12 : a hi ma mo .
th rs an th no ha ou di - tr th ar un ac al wo .
if th rs no ha a hi tr pr to it , mo st of en wo ar gi th sa lo pr - ab by th ex .
st th co th wo sh fo di or in by th wo up ha hi pr un th ex .
se wi re to th pa of an in ex .
th on - st re of a se is ge as fo :
gi an ob se , us th fo - ba al in ea ex se to ca th po pr di - ti ov pa th th hi st .
fo ea ex , st se a hi pa fr th po
gi th ob se .
at ea ti st , se an ou sy or ou ve fr th pr of th ou di sp by th se hi st of ea hm .
if mo re pr of hm ca be tr su by mi - mi th co di , th sh be be th si hm fo ma di ki of se da .
co , fo ex , th hm sh in fi 12
th ex co ca a no re .
a si hm th mu al mo al th ot re in st of en wo co no ca th re ef be it co no af to de it en me ca to re wh th wo sh ha al oc in th st .
th ha be pr at to le re by ad pa to ca ou th ef of br it in a re ne ( hi & mc , 12 or , 12 se , 12 ) , bu th we
ge e .
hi
no fo us a st ge mo an an ap
mi co di ha an un si to th le al pr by wi ( 12 ) .
wi pr co - pa ar ma of bl wi ne mi su by a te , an it us th di in it re of th co an in ar to de wh as of it re we re .
by us a st ge mo , we ca di wi th te , bu it is st th di be th re da an th ne mi ge by th mo th dr th le of th si fe .
12 lo op po .
th id of co th op of mu di ex mo by us a we av in th lo pr do is fa fr ne ( ge & zi , 12 he , 12 ) , bu re ha fo on ho to nd th be we fo co ex th ha al be le or pr se ( be , de pi , & de pi , 12 ) ra th tr th ex co .
th ge me of a se of pr di ha th at pr th it ku - le di fr th tr di , p , is sm th th av of th ku - le di of th in di , q :
p ( ci : 12 ) mq
wm ( p ( ci : 12 ) qm )
wh th wm ar no an su to 12 , an z = ( ci : 12 ) m ( c ) .
wh al of th in mo ar id , z = 12
ot , z is le th on , an th di be th tw si of eq 12 is lo ( 12 / z ) .
th ma it cl th th be of co ve di ex co fr th fa th th ma z sm , es in pa of th da sp th do no co da .
it is te to au po by gi ea ex , m , an ad ad pa , wm , th sc it lo pr .
ho , th ma in mu mo di ( ye - wh te , pe co , 12 ) .
co , fo ex , an ex wi wm = 12
th is eq to ha 12 co of an ex bu wi th la st al ti to , an th ty af th in .
it is ea to x wm = 12 an al th po le al to de th ap sh of th
12 re to bo .
wi th su le li - tu , me su as ba or bo at to ma ex di - fe fr on an by us di , or di we , tr da .
af le , th me us th we av of th ou - pu of th in ex .
th wa in wh th ou ar co
tr pr of ex
is ap fo a co po mo in wh th ou of an in - vi ex is th me of a ga , it we is th in va of th ga , an th co ou is th me of th pr of al th in ga .
ze an pi ( 12 ) ha re sh th th vi al a ve of bo to be de as a gr me of op a se ob fu .
th fa th bo wo we fo su le su th it sh be tr fo un le .
in bo , th ex ar le se , an ea ne ex is tt to da th ha be re so th da ve th ar mo we by th ex ex - pe re ve li we an he ma ve li co to th gr fo th ne ex .
a po ts al th ex at on , bu it ac an ef si to re by su th gr of th re da so th th is ve li le on da th ar al - re mo we .
on bi ad of a po ov bo is th a po ca fo th le on th pa of a tr ve th ha hi re - co er .
th al po to le lo fe .
wi bo , an en tr ca re a si sc we ra th a ve of re er , so wh bo is us fo un le , it do no so ea di lo fe .
12 co wi di ac gr mo .
in in a po is tr be th ex ar in tr an th pr - uc fo en th th hi st of di ex ar co - ti in gi th da . 12 th ma th re as mo of bi pe sy , wh mu be ab to do in ve ra .
al ap ba on di ac gr mo ( ne , 12 ) su fr th ex - aw ph .
wh su gr mo ar de co , ex in is in , so it is ne to re to cl bu im sl it te fo ap in ( sa & jo , 12 ) or to us cr ap - ti th ig ex aw du in an re on th le al to nd re fo wh th sh in te is no to da ( hi et al . , 12 ) .
un , th ea of in in po is ba by th di of ge fa da fr th mo .
th ca be do tr in on an pa in a di ac gr mo bu re an it pr su as gi sa in a po .
if , ho , eq 12 is us fo le , th di of ge sa fr th mo is no a
in ad to th ea of in th re fr th co in - de of th ex gi th da , po ha a mo su ad -
12 th ce to be tr wh th ar mi da .
ge e .
hi
va ov ge mo th wo by rs ch va fo th la va an th ge a da ve fr th la va .
if su a mo ha a si hi la an th la va ha in pr di , th wi be a st te fo th po va of th la va in a we - tt mo to re th ma in th oc wh th mo ge da . 12 fo th re , th ha be li su wi at to le su ge - er mo on hi la at a ti in a gr , bo - up wa .
wi po , ho , ev th th ex ha in pr , th la va in di ex wi be ma de : th ca be hi co ac ca ev fo fa da ge by th po it .
so af th rs hi la ha be le gr , th ma st be lo of st st in th la va fo th se hi la to ca .
th is th so ho th an en - ti un ne co le to ex a hi of re - se fr pa of re im , bu pr to th go re - qu an ef wa of de wi re - va da .
th ty of ex - pe th ha be in so fa ha no pe as we as in - pe co an at ex fe li ed fr na
th mo at pr of a se of or ba fu is th it is po to co th co on ea ba fu se wi wo ab th co on ot ba fu .
a po re th at pr wh al no ex an a no ge mo .
12 la co be hi un .
th ea of in th st of th hi un ( la va ) gi th da is a ma ad of po .
th ad ap to be lo if th la va of di ex ar al to in di .
if , fo ex , th ar di , sy co be th hi un in a re bo ma , it be in to in th ex di ov hi st wh gi th vi st .
ho , pr si sh th th co di id ca st be ap su us a da me - el me to nd an ap di ov th hi un fo bo th da ve an it re - st .
th le pr th ha th fo st fo ea da
12 th is ea to un fr a co pe in wh th da ar co - ni by rs sp th st of th la va un an in pr an th sp th da gi th la st .
if th la st ar no ma in - de , th co sc is in , so pr to co ef cr pr to in .
tr pr of ex
wi th da ve cl on th vi un , co th to bo - up in , xj , to ea hi un , j , an in it to ha re - va st , q1
= ( xj ) , wh ( . ) is th lo fu .
pe 12 da me - el it in wh ea hi un
co it to la in yt j at ti t ,
an th ad it st , qt
+ 12 ( xj + yt
al me q1
fo ea pa of a vi un , i , an a hi un , j .
fo al pa of hi un , j , k .
pi a na bi st fo ea hi un , j , ac to q1 us th bi st to ge a re da ve .
pe on mo da me - el it on th hi un st fr th na st fo wi th da , bu us th bo - up in fr th re ra th th da .
me th sa st as ab .
up ev we in pr to th di in th me
st in st 12 an 12
it is ne fo th me - el it to co fo th pr - du to wo , wh ma re li or de th we on th la co .
th us wo th me - el ap is ho fo mu di no be re fo le - in a pe sy , si it ma se to av le mo of th wo in wh th ar mu , ve di in of th sa se in .
co di le ne th pr of nd th hi mu eq di th re if bo vi an hi un ar un .
it do th by as th th ob da co al of th di mo wi ro th ri fr fo ea mo .
th fa th th in si wo is ve pr si ne - wo wi mu hi la ca al be vi as ne th ha a si la co hi la wi ma of th la an fe co mi .
ho , th ti ta fo th ne - wo to se me th ne wi la co ar co sl th pu fe ne , an mo re is re to de th th lo of sp is wo th ex re
ge e .
hi
a mu si wa to us xe la in is to di th hi un in mu ex po .
wi ea po , ex on hi un is al to tu on , an th un is ch us th so
pj = ex ( xj )
cu , th ty of pr wi - ta - al co am th hi un ha no ef wh on th co di le ru .
th le do no ev ne to kn wh hi un co wi ea ot .
th co ca be im in a ve si wa by ma ea hi un , j , be a po pr wi a ra of ex ( xj ) .
th rs un to em a sp is th wi .
th ot un in th po co th be sh of by an in un th is ex by th wi .
if th po is al to pr a xe nu of sp be be sh of , th le ru re un , bu qu li sj ma ta on in va la th 12
if a hi un is al to be a me of se di ov po , th an ge mu mo di , an mo re is ne .
12 re to an - by - sy .
po pr an ef in of th ol ps id of an - by - sy .
th id ne wo pr be th ge mo we no se to ma th an ea .
in a po , it is di to ge da fr th ge mo , bu gi th mo , it is ea to co ho an gi da ve mi ha be ge , an , as we ha se , it is re ea to le th pa of th ge mo .
pa , th ge mo th ar mo ap fo an - by - sy ma be th on in wh sy is in .
th re wa fu by th ga ch fo .
th to zo gh , da ma , pe da , ra ne , da lo , ye - wh te , gu ma , an br , an ot me of th ga un fo he di an to th re fo ma he co th im th ar .
