ab .
th as th ac ch is ar no in ( ci : 12 ) he is of n ta to im th th ad t ha an or le du it li ca gu th co of ev io .
th in is in re t ( 12 ) .
le al er th sh of th se sp in wh ev ti n op an th pr vi go ev io ar y pa to rd se of co - ad al .
we de r at e th th is ef al le or to ev mu fa th th 12 ( ci : 12 ) le eq , ev th th ch ti ac by th ph ar no co to th ge .
ma or is le us a da du t he li .
t he ad ap ( ci : 12 ) ta ar of th re lt of an ex se wh tr ou m an po bi es in or de t o d is go so lu io .
it se ve wa l no to m ak e us of th ex pe fo me by t he p he to fa e th ev lu t io se fo go od ge .
t he ob wa to ac th is to t r an in at on ab th ac re d ch ba to t he ge .
mo bi no ac th th la ar an hy is no su bs so th in fe th le in g ca gu t he ev ( ci : 12 ) lu se .
we us a s im co ar to sh th th in is in an t ha le in ca be ve ef in gu ( ci : 12 ) in th se , ev wh t he sp ad t ha ar le ar no co ic to th ge .
in d if lt ev se wh re qu ma po to b e te in or to di sc a co co ( ci : 12 ) a da , we de on st r at e th ea le g tr ca b e al as he t o th ev se as t he p ro du io an ev at of a wh ne or .
t h is gr in es t he ef of ev be a le ( ci : 12 ) in g tr is m uc h fa te an d re ir es mu le ex d it of en t ha t he pr od of a wh ol or .
le g ca p ro an ea ev lu t io pa to co - ad al ( ci : 12 ) le in en t ha ha ~ n o go d ev p at fo no - le or .
t h is ty of in io be le an ev lu t io wa
12 co sy p ub , in .
ge e .
hi an st j .
no
fi pr hy ba 12 an ll mo ( 12 is so ca ll th ba ef .
wa in 12 pr a si ty of in be we de pr an ev io an ca it " ca " or " ge ic as " .
so fa as we ca t el , th ha be no co ( ci : 12 ) pu si io or an of th co th de th ma de of th ef .
an ex t r em e an si ex m p le
ba is be un by co an ex ( an un li ) ca in wh t he co ar ve cl .
im an or is t ha co a ne ne in wh th ar ma po en al co ec on .
su ( ci : 12 ) po th t he ne t on co fe ad re fi es on th or if it is co te d in ex th ri wa .
in th wo t ca , th is no re ev io pa to th go d ne an a p ur ev ( ci : 12 ) ar se ca on ly di wh ic of th po co sh ul be pr es by tr po at ra do .
t he go ne is li a ne in
th ev se sp be mu be if th ge ty sp ec so of th de ab wh to pu co , bu le ot de to le .
th ha th ef of co a la zo of in fi es ar th go ne .
wh th ge sp ec de ar co , th ge fa ll wi hi th zo an wi ha in fi be le wi st a ch of di ho to ma th re de so as to pr th go ne .
th ma th ev se mu ea .
it is li se fo an in a ha wh so te ll yo wh yo ar ge cl .
t he ce po of th ar me is th th pe wh o te yo th yo ar ge in cl do es no ne to te yo an mo .
a si u la io
we ha si a si ex of th is ki of in on be le an ev .
th ne ne ha 12 po co , an th ge ha 12 ge " , ea of wh ic ha th al rn fo ( a l ( ci : 12 ) le ) ca 12 , 12 , an ? th 12 al sp th a co sh he pr , a sp th it sh be ab , an ? sp a co co a sw wh ca be op or cl .
it is le to le to de ho th sw sh ul be se .
we as , fo si , a le me th si tr a ra do co of sw se on it th co of th sw se an th ge sp de is ev pr th on go ne we as th th sw
12 we as , fo si , th ea po te ia co is co by it ow ge .
na , we do no be li th th e re on p be ge an co ne is
ho le ca gu ev
se ar fr .
ot th ke ch . ?
th ev se is mo wi a ve of th ge al ( ci : 12 ) go pr by ho 12 .
fi 12 sh ho le al th sh of th se sp in wh ev op .
fi 12 sh wh ha to th re fr of th e co , in , an ? al du a ty ev se in wh ea or ru ma le tr du it li .
no th th to nu of or ( ci : 12 ) is pr is fa le th th 12 ' th wo be ex to fi th go ne by a pu ev se .
on in fe of fi 12 is th th is ve li se pr in fa of ge sp ec th la fe po co , be a fe le tr is al al su to le th co se of ju a fe sw .
th sa pr wa ne so by an ev se wi le .
th wa no a su re th pr wa se to be ex di fo an ev se , wh re on th ex ( ci : 12 ) ti of sm co - ad se of al to pr id a be th ra se of th sp .
th sp of fi in ou ex ( fi 12 ) me th th on co - ad th co im fi es re si ( ci : 12 ) ne co - ad of al 12 ge .
ev if th co - ad is di , it is no ea pa to de .
if an ad in ma wi an in ot th on ne id to it , th co - ad wi pr be de .
th cr of th pr is th on th on go ge is di , an d fi is th on cr fo ma se io .
to pr t he co - ad io fr ge to ge it to gi ri to at le is ne fo ea go ge , on av , if th di of co on go de an in th ne ge .
co - ad du to ma ca ea go ge to ha le t ha on ex go de nt in th ne ge , t he co - ad wi no sp , ev if it is di ma t im .
in ou ex , th ex ( ci : 12 ) pe nu of go im de an of a go ge is be 12 wi ho le an ab 12 wi le .
di
th mo co ar in fa of le is th so as of th en ir ar un , so it is po it iv ad to le so de io to le ra th sp th ge ( e . g .
ha 12 ) .
th ar is cl co an is on go re fo ha a le me , bu it is di fr th e ba ef wh ap to co co - ad to pr as of th e en ( ci : 12 )
12 hi im as th t he or ca " re " wh it ba ac t he go ne .
th re ab ( or an ab to te wh th e sw se in ha be im ) is re to ma le ef an so it mu pr th ba ef .
th , it is po th so pr of an or wh ar cu nt y ge sp we on be go of th or ' s an or .
ge e .
hi an st j .
no
zo of in fi
co of al
fi 12 : th ev of th re fr of th th po ty of al .
th ar 12 or in ea ge .
an ea or pe 12 le tr du it li .
th in 12 ge ar ge by se ea al at ra wi a pr of 12 fo th ? al an 12 fo ea of th re tw al .
a ty ge , th , ha ab te de ge sp an ab te le to le .
si we ru ab 12 le tr fo ea or , th is a re ch th an or wh ha th co ge sp of te po co wi le th co sp of th re te .
to ge th ne ge fr th cu on , we pe 12 ma .
th tw pa of a ma ar di in wh ar ch at ra fr th cu ge .
aj . y or in th cu ge th le th go ne ha a mu hi pr of be se as a pa .
th pr is pr to 12 12 / 12 , wh n is th nu of le tr th re af th or ha le th co ne .
so or wh le im ar 12 ti as li to be ch as pa th or wh ne le .
th si of of ea ma is ge by ra ch a cr ( ci : 12 ) ov po an co al al fr th fi pa up to th cr ( ci : 12 ) ov po , an fr th se pa be th cr - ov po .
ho le ca gu ev
. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .
~ o , s r _ _
- - - ,
. , _ . : . . , :
fi 12 : th sh of t he se sp in wh ev op .
th ho ax re co of al an so it no re on - di na .
wi ho le in , t he se sp ha a si sp of hi fi .
on ca no do be er t ha ra se in su a sp .
wi le g , th is a zo of in fi ar un th sp .
th zo co to ge wh al th co co of po co to be le .
ge e .
hi an st j .
no
to ke th ar si , we st by as th le wa si a ra se th po sw se .
wh t he is a si go co an d al ot co ar eq ba a ra se is a re st , bu fo mo le ta th is mo st th th an th le pr sh ld ma us of t he st to ho in on go sw it h co .
mo so ic le pr co be us in th ca ( e . g ru , hi , an wi ( 12 ) ) .
in , us a hi pr as an in lo to gu a ge se ca be ve ef 12 ) .
as ho 12 sh , ge se is pa go at ob ev ab wh co ( ci : 12 ) fe fi fr wi se po in th se sp .
hi , on th ot ha , is go at lo l , my op .
wh th tw te ar co , th of pe mu be th ei he te ( ci : 12 ) ni al ( 12 ) .
th , us a mo so le ni ng pr on ly st th ar fo th im of th ba ef .
fo si , we as th th le op on ex t he sa va as th ge se .
t hi is no ne fo th ar um .
ea ge co in th pr of la nu of po te ia co an th le wo st im th ev pa fo th ge se .
in th mo re ge ca , an la at to in ac qu ch wo ru in a se co d if : to kn ho to ch th ge in or to ge th ac ch of th ph en pe it is ne to in th fo ( ci : 12 ) wa fu th ma fr ge , vi th pr of de lo me an le , to ad ph pe .
t hi is ge a ve co , no - li , st fu an so it is ve ha d to co ho to ch t he ge to ac de ir ch in th ph ev wh th de ch ar kn .
we ha fo on th in ac . be ev an le rn , bu th sa co ar um nt ca be ap to th in be n ev an de lo .
in of di sp th ph , th ge co sp th in ie of an ad ti pr an le it to th pr to ac th re en re .
an in es mo el of th ki d of ad p ro is de by vo de ma rg an wi ( ci : 12 ) sh ( 12 .
wa di ( 12 su th ty pe of me to ac un fo th in of ac ch is ic wi in a da fr .
th is se pr fo ge wh ic fa th de lo of ce us ch in re to th en .
in th li , th de lo pr be me ca : th sa ch wi te to de re of th en fa th or co ( ci : 12 ) tr it .
en co of th pr is su by in ge co l .
th , we ha a me wh as ev pr al so as of th ph th we in sp in ly vi an ad pr to be mo di sp .
ou si su th ar of ba an wa , an de th ad pr wi th or ca be ve
ho le ca gu ev
ef iv in gu ev .
th ma li of th ba ef is th it is on ef in sp th wo be ha to se wi an ad iv pr to re th sp .
th ex we us in wh th is a si le sp of ad fi is cl an ex ca , an it is di to as th sh th re ev se sp wo it ma be ha if th we no ad pr to re th .
po ib to th so li on th is by us co si to ex lo th sh of th ev se sp fo si ne ne th do no le , bu su si la al co so ma si as th it is ha to as th bi re .
we t he co wi a di : fo bi lo wh be th ev se sp co ni hi ( ev wi th re ca by ad pr ) th ba ef is of li in er , 12 bu fo bi wh ar su of th as th th na se sp ar so ni st , th ba ef is an im me th at al ad pr wi th or to gr im th sp in wh it ev .
t hi re wa su by gr is - 12 fr th na sc ( ci : 12 ) en fo an by co no - 12 - k - 12 fr th of of na l re .
we th da ac , fr cr , gr mi ( ci : 12 ) so , jo ma - sm , da wi , an ro li za fo he
