one way of mod a com , hig - dim dat dis is to use a lar num of rel sim pro mod and som com the dis spe by eac mod .
a wel - kno exa of thi app is a mix of gau in whi eac sim mod is a gau , and the com rul con of tak a wei ari - met mea of the ind dis .
thi is equ to ass an ove gen mod in whi eac dat vec is gen by rst cho one of the ind gen mod and the all tha ind mod to gen the dat vec .
com mod by for - ing a mix is att for sev rea .
it is eas to t mix of tra mod to dat usi exp - max ( em ) or gra asc , and mix are usu con mor pow tha the in - div com .
ind , if suf man mod are inc in c ( cid : 123 ) 123 mas ins of tec
neu com 123 , 123 ( 123 )
geo e .
hin
the mix , it is pos to app com smo dis
unf , mix mod are ver ine in hig - dim spa .
con , for exa , the man of fac ima .
it tak abo 123 rea num to spe the sha , pos , exp , and ill of a fac , and und goo vie con , our per sys pro a sha pos dis on thi 123 - dim man .
thi can be don usi a mix of mod , eac tun in the 123 - dim man , bec the pos dis can be sha tha the ind mod in the mix and the ind mod mus be bro tun to all the to cov the 123 - dim man .
a ver dif way of com dis is to mul the to - get and ren .
hig - dim dis , for exa , are oft app as the pro of one - dim dis .
if the ind dis are uni - or mul gau , the pro wil als be a mul gau so , unl mix of gau , pro - uct of gau can app arb smo dis .
if , how , the ind mod are a bit mor com and eac con - tai one or mor lat ( i . e . , hid ) var , mul the dis - tio tog ( and ren ) can be ver pow .
ind mod of thi kin wil be cal exp .
pro of exp ( poe ) can pro muc sha dis tha the ind exp mod .
for exa , eac exp mod can con - str a dif sub of the dim in a hig - dim spa , and the pro wil the con all of the dim .
for mod han - wri dig , one low - res mod can gen ima tha hav the app ove sha of the dig , and oth mor loc mod can ens tha sma ima pat con seg of str wit the cor ne str .
for mod sen , eac exp can enf a nug of lin kno .
for exa , one exp cou ens tha the ten agr , one cou ens tha the is num agr bet the sub and ver , and one cou ens tha str in whi col adj fol siz adj are mor pro tha the the rev .
fit a poe to dat app dif bec it app to be nec to com the der , wit rep to the par , of the par fun tha is use in the ren .
as we sha see , how , the der can be nes by opt a les obv obj fun tha the log lik of the dat .
123 lea pro of exp by max lik
we con ind exp mod for whi it is tra to com the der of the log pro of a dat vec wit res to the
tra pro of exp
par of the exp .
we com n ind exp mod as fol :
p ( d | 123 , .
, n ) = m fm ( d | m ) m fm ( c | m )
whe d is a dat vec in a dis spa , m is all the par of ind mod m , fm ( d | m ) is the pro of d und mod m , and c ind all pos vec in the dat spa . 123 for con dat spa , the sum is rep by the app int .
for an ind exp to t the dat wel , it mus giv hig pro to the obs dat , and it mus was as lit pro as pos on the res of the dat spa .
a poe , how , can t the dat wel eve if eac exp was a lot of its pro on ina reg of the dat spa , pro dif exp was pro in dif reg .
the obv way to t a poe to a set of obs ind and ide dis ( i . i . d . ) dat vec 123 is to fol the der of the log lik of eac obs vec , d , und the poe .
thi is giv by
log p ( d | 123 ,
= log fm ( d | m )
p ( c | 123 ,
log fm ( c | m )
the sec ter on the rig - han sid of equ 123 is jus the ex - pec der of the log pro of an exp on fan dat , c , tha is gen fro the poe .
so ass tha eac of the ind exp has a tra der , the obv dif in est the der of the log pro of the dat und the poe is gen cor dis - tri fan dat .
thi can be don in var way .
for dis dat , it is pos to use rej sam .
eac exp gen a dat vec - tor ind , and thi pro is rep unt all the exp hap to agr .
rej sam is a goo way of und how a poe spe an ove pro dis and how dif it is fro a cau mod , but it is typ ver ine .
gib sam is typ muc mor efc .
in gib sam , eac var dra a sam fro its pos dis giv the cur sta of the oth var ( ge - man & gem , 123 ) .
giv the dat , the hid sta of all the exp can alw be upd in par bec the are con ind - den .
thi is an imp con of the pro for . 123 if the
wil gen be a pro in thi art .
123 so lon as fm ( d | m ) is pos , it doe not nee to be a pro at all , tho it 123 for tim - ser mod , d is a who seq .
123 the con ind is obv in the und gra mod of a poe bec the onl pat bet the hid sta of two exp is via the obs dat .
geo e .
hin
fig 123 : a vis of alt gib sam .
at tim 123 , the vis var rep a dat vec , and the hid var of all the exp are upd in par wit sam fro the pos dis giv the vis var .
at tim 123 , the vis var are all upd to pro a re - con of the ori dat vec fro the hid var , and the the hid var are aga upd in par .
if thi pro is rep suf - cie oft , it is pos to get arb clo to the equ dis .
the cor ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) sho on the con bet vis and hid var are the sta use for lea in rbm , whi are des in
ind exp als hav the pro tha the com of the dat vec are con ind giv the hid sta of the exp , the hid and vis var for a bip gra , and it is pos to upd all of the com of the dat vec in par giv the hid sta of all the exp .
so gib sam can alt bet par upd of the hid and vis var ( see fig 123 ) .
to get an un - bia est of the gra for the poe , it is nec for the mar cha to con to the equ dis .
unf , eve if it is com fea to app the equ - lib dis bef tak sam , the is a sec , ser dif - cul .
sam fro the equ dis gen hav hig var - anc sin the com fro all ove the mod dis .
thi hig var - anc swa the est of the der .
wor sti , the var in the sam dep on the par of the mod .
thi var in the var - anc cau the par to be rep fro reg of hig var eve if the gra is zer .
to und thi sub eff , con a hor - tal she of tin tha is res in suc a way tha som par hav str ver osc and oth par are mot .
san sca on the tin wil acc in the mot are eve tho the tim - ave gra is zer eve .
123 lea by min con div
max the log lik of the dat ( ave ove the dat dis - tio ) is equ to min the kul - lei div bet the dat dis , p12 , and the equ dis ove the vis -
tra pro of exp
, tha is pro by pro gib sam fro the ble var , p
p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
p12 ( d ) log p12 ( d ) = h ( p12 ) ( cid : 123 ) log p
p12 ( d ) log p
whe ( cid : 123 ) den a kul - lei div , the ang bra den exp ove the dis spe as a sub , and h ( p12 ) is the ent of the dat dis .
p12 doe not dep on the par of the
mod , so h ( p12 ) can be ign dur the opt .
not tha p is jus ano way of wri p ( d | 123 , .
equ 123 , ave ove the dat dis , can be rew as
whe log fm is a ran var tha cou be wri as log fm ( d | m ) wit d its bei a ran var cor to the dat .
the is a sim and eff alt to max lik lea tha eli - ina alm all of the com req to get sam fro the equ - lib dis and als eli muc of the var tha mas the gra sig .
thi alt app inv opt a dif - ent obj fun .
ins of jus min p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
, we min the dif bet p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
is the dis ove the one - ste rec of the dat vec gen by one ful ste of gib sam ( see fig 123 ) .
the int mot for usi thi con div is tha we wou lik the mar cha tha is imp by gib sam to lea the ini dis p12 ove the vis var una .
ins of run the cha to equ and com the ini and nal der , we can sim run the cha for one ful ste and the upd the par to red the ten of the cha to wan awa fro the ini dis on the rst ste .
bec p12 is one ste clo to the equ dis tha p12 , we are gua tha p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
unl p12 equ p12 , so the con div can nev be neg .
als , for mar cha in whi all tra hav non imp p12 = p pro , p12 = p12
, bec if the dis doe not
123 p12 is a nat way to den the dat dis if we ima sta a mar
cha at the dat dis at tim 123
geo e .
hin
cha at all on the rst ste , it mus alr be at equ , so the con div can be zer onl if the mod is per . 123
ano way of und con div lea is to vie it as a met of eli all the way in whi the poe mod wou lik to dis the tru dat .
thi is don by ens tha , on ave , the rec is no mor pro und the poe mod tha the ori
the mat mot for the con div is tha the in -
on the rig - han sid of equ 123 can
tra exp ove p
( p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
if eac exp is cho to be tra , it is pos to com the exa val of the der of log fm ( d | m ) for a dat vec , d .
it is als str to sam fro p12 and p12 , so the rst two ter on the rig - han sid of equ 123 are tra .
by den , the fol pro pro an unb sam fro p12
pic a dat vec , d , fro the dis of the dat p12
com , for eac exp sep , the pos pro dis - but ove its lat ( i . e . , hid ) var giv the dat vec ,
pic a val for eac lat var fro its pos dis .
giv the cho val of all the lat var , com the con - dit dis ove all the vis var by mul to - get the con dis spe by eac exp and ren -
pic a val for eac vis var fro the con dis .
the val con the rec dat vec , d .
the thi ter on the rig - han sid of equ 123 rep the eff
of the cha of the dis of the one - ste rec cau by a cha in m .
it is pro to com , but ext sim - lat ( see sec 123 ) sho tha it can saf be ign bec it is sma
123 it is obv pos to mak the con div sma by usi a mar cha tha mix ver slo , eve if the dat dis is ver far fro the eve equ dis .
it is the imp to ens mix by usi tec suc as wei dec tha ens tha eve pos vis vec has a non pro - bil giv the sta of the hid var .
tra pro of exp
and sel opp the res of the oth two ter .
the par of the exp can the be adj in pro to the app der of the con div :
thi wor ver wel in pra eve whe a sin rec of eac dat vec is use in pla of the ful pro dis ove re - con .
the dif in the der of the dat vec and the rec has som var bec the rec pro is sto .
but whe the poe is mod the dat mod wel , the one - ste rec wil be ver sim to the dat , so the var wil be ver sma .
the clo mat bet a dat vec and its rec red sam var in muc the sam way as the use of mat pai for exp and con con in a cli tri .
the low var mak it fea to per on - lin lea aft eac dat vec is pre , tho the sim des in thi art use min - bat lea in whi the par upd are bas on the sum gra - ent mea on a rot sub of the com tra set . 123
the is an alt jus for the lea alg in equ - tio 123 .
in hig - dim dat set , the dat nea alw lie on , or clo to , a muc low - dim , smo cur man .
the poe nee to nd par tha mak a sha rid of log pro alo the low - dim man .
by sta wit a poi on the man and ens tha the typ rec fro the lat var of all the exp do not hav sig hig pro , the poe ens tha the pro dis has the rig loc str .
it is pos tha the poe wil acc ass hig pro to oth dis and unv par of the dat spa , but thi is unl if the log pro sur is smo and bot its hei and its loc cur are con at the dat poi .
it is als pos to nd and eli suc poi by per pro gib sam wit any dat , but thi is jus a way of imp the lea and not , as in bol mac lea , an ess par of it .
123 a sim exa
poe sho wor ver wel on dat dis tha can be fac int a pro of low - dim dis .
thi is dem in fig 123 and 123
the are 123 uni exp , eac of whi is a
123 min - bat lea mak bet use of the abi of mat to vec acr
geo e .
hin
fig 123 : eac dot is a dat poi .
the dat hav bee tte wit a pro of 123 exp .
the ell sho the one sta dev con of the gau - sia in eac exp .
the exp are ini wit ran loc , cir gau tha hav abo the sam var as the dat .
the ve unn exp rem vag , but the mix pro , whi det the pri pro wit whi eac of the uni exp sel its gau rat tha its uni , rem hig .
mix of a uni dis and a sin axi - ali gau .
in the tte mod , eac tig dat clu is rep by the int of two exp gau , whi are elo alo dif axe .
usi a con - ser lea rat , the tti req 123 upd of the par .
for eac upd of the par , the fol com is per on eve obs dat vec :
giv the dat , d , cal the pos pro of sel the gau rat tha the uni in eac exp and com the rst ter on the rig - han sid of equ 123 .
for eac exp , sto sel the gau or the uni ac - cor to the pos .
com the nor pro of the se - lec gau , whi is its a gau , and sam fro it to get a rec vec in the dat spa .
to avo pro , the is one spe exp tha is con to alw pic its gau .
com the neg ter in equ 123 usi the rec
123 lea a pop cod
a poe can als be a ver eff mod whe eac exp is qui bro tun on eve dim and pre is obt by the int of a
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : thr hun dat poi gen by pro gib sam fro the 123 exp tte in fig 123
the gib sam sta fro a ran poi in the ran of the dat and use 123 par ite wit ann .
not tha the tte mod gen dat at the gri poi tha is mis in the rea dat .
lar num of exp .
fig 123 sho wha hap whe the con div lea alg is use to t 123 uni exp to 123 - dim syn ima tha eac con one edg .
the edg var in the ori , pos , and int on eac sid of the edg .
the int pro acr the edg was a sig .
eac exp als lea a var for eac pix , and alt the var var , ind exp did not spe in a sma sub of the dim .
giv an ima , abo hal of the exp hav a hig pro of pic the gau rat tha the uni .
the pro of the cho gau are exc rec of the ima .
the exp at the top of fig 123 loo lik edg det in var ori , pos , and pol .
man of the exp far dow hav eve sym and are use to loc one end of an edg .
the eac wor for two dif set of edg tha hav opp pol and dif pos .
123 ini the exp
one way to ini a poe is to tra eac exp sep , for the exp to dif by giv the dif or dif wei tra cas or by tra the on dif sub of the dat dim , or by usi dif mod cla for the dif exp .
onc eac exp has bee ini sep , the ind pro dis nee to be rai to a fra pow to cre the ini poe .
sep ini of the exp see lik a sen ide , but sim - ula ind tha the poe is far mor lik to bec tra in poo loc opt if the exp are all to spe sep .
bet so - lut are obt by sim ini the exp ran wit ver vag dis and usi the lea rul in equ 123 .
geo e .
hin
fig 123 : ( a ) som 123 123 ima tha eac con a sin int edg .
the loc , ori , and con of the edg all var .
( b ) the mea of all the 123 - dim gau in a pro of 123 exp , eac of whi is a mix of a gau and a uni .
the poe was tte to 123 ima of the typ sho on the lef .
the exp hav bee ord by han so tha qua sim exp are adj .
123 poe and bol mac
the bol mac lea alg ( hin & sej , 123 ) is the ele and eas to imp in har but ver slo in net wit int hid uni bec of the var pro - lem des in sec 123
smo ( 123 ) int a res typ of bol mac wit one vis lay , one hid lay , and no int con .
fre and hau ( 123 ) rea tha in thi re - str bol mac ( rbm ) , the pro of gen a vis vec is pro to the pro of the pro tha the vis vec - tor wou be gen by eac of the hid uni act alo .
an rbm is the a poe wit one exp per hid uni . 123 whe the hid uni
123 bol mac and poe are ver dif cla of pro gen
mod , and the int of the two cla is rbm .
tra pro of exp
of an exp is off , it spe a sep pro dis in whi eac vis uni is equ lik to be on or off .
whe the hid uni is on , it spe a dif fac dis by usi the wei on its con to eac vis uni to spe the log odd tha the vis uni is on .
mul tog the dis ove the vis sta spe - ed by dif exp is ach by sim add the log odd .
exa inf of the hid sta giv the vis dat is tra in an rbm bec the sta of the hid uni are con ind giv
the lea alg giv by equ 123 is exa equ to the sta bol lea alg for an rbm .
con the der of the log pro of the dat wit res to the wei wij bet a vis uni i and a hid uni j .
the rst ter on the rig - han sid of equ 123 is
log fj ( d | wj )
= ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) d ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p
whe wj is the vec of wei con hid uni j to the vis uni , ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) d is the exp val of sis whe d is cla on the vis uni and sj is sam fro its pos dis giv d , and ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p is the exp val of sis whe alt gib sam of the hid and vis uni is ite to get sam fro the equ dis in a net who onl hid uni is j .
the sec ter on the rig - han sid of equ 123 is :
p ( c | w )
log fj ( c | wj )
whe w is all of the wei in the rbm and ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p is the exp val of sis whe alt gib sam of all the hid and all the vis uni is ite to get sam fro the equ dis of the rbm .
sub equ 123 fro equ 123 and tak exp ove
the dis of the dat giv = ( p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
= ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p12 ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p
the tim req to app equ and the hig sam var - anc in ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p
mak lea dif .
it is muc mor eff to use the app gra of the con div .
for an rbm , thi app gra is par eas to com :
( p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
) ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p12 ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 )
is the exp val of sis whe one - ste rec are cla on the vis uni and sj is sam fro its pos dis giv the rec ( see fig 123 ) .
geo e .
hin
123 lea the fea of han dig
whe pre wit rea hig - dim dat , a res bol mac tra to min the con div usi equ 123 sho lea a set of pro bin fea tha mod the dat wel .
to tes thi con , an rbm wit 123 hid uni and 123 vis uni was tra on 123 123 123 rea - val ima of han dig fro all 123 cla .
the ima , fro the br tra set on the usp ced rom , wer nor in wid and hei , but the wer hig var in sty .
the pix int wer nor to lie bet 123 and 123 so tha the cou be tre as pro , and equ 123 was mod to use pro in pla of sto bin val for bot the dat and the
( p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
) ( cid : 123 ) pip ( cid : 123 ) p12 ( cid : 123 ) pip ( cid : 123 )
sto cho bin sta of the hid uni wer sti use for com the pro of the rec pix , but ins of pic bin sta for the pix fro tho pro , the pro the wer use as the rec dat vec .
it tak 123 hou in mat 123 on a 123 mhz pen ii wor to per 123 epo of lea .
thi is muc fas tha sta bol - man mac lea , com wit the wak - sle alg ( hin - ton , day , fre , & nea , 123 ) and con slo tha usi em to t a mix mod wit the sam num of par .
in eac epo , the wei wer upd 123 tim usi the app gra of the con div com on min - bat of siz 123 tha con 123 exe of eac dig cla .
the lea rat was set emp to be abo one - qua of the rat tha cau div osc in the pa - ram .
to imp the lea spe fur , a mom met was use .
aft the rst 123 epo , the par upd spe by equ - tio 123 wer sup by add 123 tim the pre upd .
the poe lea loc fea who bin sta yie alm per rec .
for eac ima , abo one - thi of the fea wer tur on .
som of the lea fea had on - cen off - sur rec - tiv eld or vic ver , som loo lik pie of str , and som loo lik gab lte or wav .
the wei of 123 of the hid uni , se - lec at ran , are sho in fig 123
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : the rec eld of a ran sel sub of the 123 hid uni in a poe tha was tra on 123 ima of dig wit equ num fro eac cla .
eac blo sho the 123 lea wei con a hid uni to the pix .
the sca goe fro +12 ( whi ) to 123 ( bla ) .
123 usi lea mod of han dig for dis
an att asp of poe is tha it is eas to com the num in equ 123 , so it is eas to com the log pro of a dat vec up to an add con , log z , whi is the log of the den in equ 123 .
unf , it is ver har to com thi add con .
thi doe not mat if we wan to com onl the pro of two dif dat vec und the poe , but it mak it dif to eva the mod lea by a poe , bec the obv way to mea the suc of lea is to sum the log pro tha the poe ass to tes dat vec dra fro the sam dis as the tra dat but not use
for a nov det tas , it wou be pos to tra a poe on nor - mal dat and the to lea a sin sca thr val for the unn -
geo e .
hin
ize log pro in ord to opt dis bet nor dat and a few abn cas .
thi mak goo use of the abi of a poe to per uns lea .
it is equ to nai bay cla - cat usi a ver pri sep mod of abn cas tha sim ret the sam lea log pro for all abn cas .
an alt way to eva the lea pro is to lea two dif poe on dif dat set suc as ima of the dig 123 and im - age of the dig 123
aft lea , a tes ima , t , is pre to poe and poe , and the com log p ( t | 123 ) + log z12 and log p ( t | 123 ) + log z12 , re - spe .
if the dif bet log z12 and log z12 is kno , it is eas to pic the mos lik cla of the tes ima , and sin thi dif is onl a sin num , it is qui eas to est it dis usi a set of val ima who lab are kno .
if dis per is the onl goa and all the rel cla are kno in adv , it is pro - abl sen to tra all the par of a sys dis .
in thi art , how , dis per on the dig is use sim as a way of dem tha uns poe lea ver goo mod of the ind dig cla .
fig 123 sho fea lea by a poe tha con a lay of 123 hid uni and is tra on 123 ima of the dig 123
fig 123 sho som pre uns tes ima of 123 and the one - ste rec fro the bin act of the poe tra on 123 and fro an ide poe tra on 123 .
fig 123 sho the unn log pro sco of som tra and tes ima und a mod tra on 123 ima of the dig 123 and a mod tra on 123 ima of the dig 123
unf , the ofc tes set for the usp dig vio the sta ass tha tes dat sho be dra fro the sam dis as the tra dat , so her the tes ima wer dra fro the unu por of the ofc tra set .
eve for the pre uns tes ima , the sco und the two mod all per dis .
to ach thi exc sep , it was nec to use mod wit two hid lay and ave the sco fro two sep tra mod of eac dig cla .
for eac dig cla , one mod had 123 uni in its rst hid lay and 123 in its sec hid lay .
the oth mod had 123 in the rst hid lay and 123 in the sec .
the uni in the rst hid lay wer tra wit reg to the sec hid lay .
aft tra the rst hid lay , the sec hid lay was tra usi the pro of fea act in the rst hid lay as the dat .
for tes , the sco pro by the two hid lay wer sim add tog .
omi the sco pro by the sec hid lay lea to con wor sep of the dig cla on tes dat .
fig 123 sho the unn log pro sco for pre uns tes ima of 123 and 123 , whi are the mos dif cla to dis .
dis is not per , but it is enc tha all
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : the wei lea by 123 hid uni tra on 123 123 ima of the dig 123
the sca goe fro +12 ( whi ) to 123 ( bla ) .
not tha the eld are mos qui loc .
a loc fea lik the one in col 123 , row 123 loo lik an edg det , but it is bes und as a loc def of a tem .
sup tha all the oth act fea cre an ima of a 123 tha dif fro the dat in hav a lar loo who top fal on the bla par of the rec eld .
by tur on thi fea , the top of the loo can be rem and rep by a lin seg tha is a lit low in the ima .
of the err are clo to the dec bou , so the are no con
123 dea wit mul cla .
if the are 123 dif poe for the 123 dig cla , it is sli les obv how to use the 123 unn sco of a tes ima for dis .
one pos is to use a val set to tra a log dis net tha tak the unn log pro giv by the poe and con the int a pro dis acr the 123 lab .
fig 123 sho the wei in a log
geo e .
hin
fig 123 : the cen row is pre uns ima of 123 .
( top ) pix pro - bil whe the ima is rec fro the bin act of 123 fea det tha hav bee tra on 123 .
( bot ) pix pro for rec - str fro the bin sta of 123 fea det tra on 123 .
log sco of bot mod on tra dat
log sco und bot mod on tes dat
sco und mod
sco und mod
fig 123 : ( a ) the unn log pro sco of the tra ima of the dig 123 and 123 und the lea poe for 123 and 123
( b ) the log pro sco for pre uns tes ima of 123 and 123 .
not the goo sep of the two cla .
dis net tha is tra aft tti 123 poe mod to the 123 sep dig cla .
in ord to see whe the sec hid lay wer pro use dis inf , eac poe pro two sco .
the rst sco was the unn log pro of the pix int und a poe mod tha con of the uni in the rst hid lay .
the sec sco was the unn log pro of the pro of act of the rst lay of hid uni und a poe mod tha con of the uni in the sec hid lay .
the wei in fig 123 sho tha the sec lay of hid uni pro use add inf .
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : the unn log pro sco of the pre uns tes ima of 123 and 123 .
alt the cla are not lin sep , all the err are clo to the bes sep lin , so the are no con err .
pre thi is bec it cap the way in whi fea rep in the rst hid lay are cor .
a sec - lev mod sho be abl to ass hig sco to the vec of hid act tha are typ of the rst - lev 123 mod whe it is giv ima of 123 and low sco to the hid act of the rst - lev 123 mod whe it is giv ima tha con com of fea tha are not nor pre at the sam tim in a 123
the err rat is 123 whi com ver fav wit the 123 err rat of a sim nea - nei cla on the sam tra and tes set and is abo the sam as the ver bes cla bas on ela mod of the dig ( rev , wil , & hin , 123 ) .
if 123 rej are all ( by cho an app thr for the pro lev of the mos pro cla ) , the are no err on the 123 tes ima .
sev dif net arc wer tri for the dig - spe poe , and the res rep are for the arc tha did bes on the tes dat .
alt thi is typ of res on lea alg , the fac tha tes dat wer use for mod sel mea tha the rep res are a bia est of the per on gen uns tes ima .
may and hin ( 123 ) rep goo com res for the lar mni dat , and the wer car to do all the mod sel usi sub of the tra dat so tha the ofc tes dat wer use onl to mea the nal err rat .
geo e .
hin
fig 123 : the wei lea by doi mul log dis on the tra dat wit the lab as out and the unn log pro sco fro the tra , dig - spe poe as inp .
eac col cor to a dig cla , sta wit dig 123
the top row is the bia for the cla .
the nex 123 row are the wei ass to the sco tha rep the log pro of the pix und the mod lea by the rst hid lay of eac poe .
the las 123 row are the wei ass to the sco tha rep the log pro of the pro on the rst hid lay und the mod lea by the sec hid lay .
not tha alt the wei in the las 123 row are sma , the are sti qui lar , whi sho tha the sco fro the sec hid lay pro use , add dis inf .
not als tha the sco pro by the 123 mod pro use evi in fav of 123 .
123 how goo is the app ?
the fac tha the lea pro in equ 123 giv goo res in the sim des in sec 123 , 123 , and 123 sug tha it is saf to ign the nal ter in the rig - han sid of equ 123 tha com fro the cha in the dis p12
to get an ide of the rel mag of the ter tha is bei ig - nor , ext sim wer per usi res bol mac wit sma num of vis and hid uni .
by per com tha are exp in the num of hid uni and the
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : ( a ) a his of the imp in the con div as a res of usi equ 123 to per one upd of the wei in eac of 123 net .
the exp val on the rig - han sid of equ 123 wer com exa .
the net had eig vis and fou hid uni .
the ini wei wer ran cho fro a gau wit mea 123 and sta dev 123
the tra dat wer cho at ran .
( b ) the imp in the log lik of the dat for 123 net cho in exa the sam way as in fig 123 .
not tha the log lik dec in two cas .
the cha in the log lik are the sam as the cha in p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
but wit a
it is als pos to mea wha hap to p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
num of vis uni , it is pos to com the exa val of ( cid : 123 ) sis ( cid : 123 ) p12
whe the app in equ 123 is use to upd the wei by an amo tha is lar com wit the num pre of the mac but sma com wit the cur of the con div .
the rbm use for the sim had ran tra dat and ran - dom wei .
the did not hav bia on the vis or hid uni .
the mai res can be sum as fol : for an ind wei , the rig - han sid of equ 123 , sum ove all tra cas , occ - all dif in sig fro the lef - han sid .
but for net con mor tha two uni in eac lay it is alm cer tha a par upd of all the wei bas on the rig - han sid of equ 123 wil imp the con div .
in oth wor , whe we ave ove the tra - ing dat , the vec of par upd giv by the rig - han sid is alm cer to hav a pos cos wit the tru gra den by the lef - han sid .
fig 123 is a his of the imp in the con div whe equ 123 was use to per one par - all wei upd in eac of 123 , 123 net .
the net con eig vis and fou hid uni , and the wei wer cho fro a gau dis wit mea zer and sta dev 123
wit sma wei or lar net , the app in equ 123 is
geo e .
hin
fig 123 sho tha the lea pro doe not alw imp the log lik of the tra dat , tho it has a str ten to do so .
not tha onl 123 net wer use for thi his .
fig 123 com the con to the gra of the con div mad by the rig - han sid of equ 123 and by the ter tha is bei ign .
the vec of wei upd giv by equ 123 mak the con div wor if the dot in fig 123 are abo the dia lin , so it is cle tha in the net , the app in
equ 123 is qui saf .
int , we exp p12 to lie bet p12 and p
clo to p12 , the cha so whe the par are cha to mov p
sho als mov p12
the ign cha in p12 an imp in the con div ( whi is wha fig 123
tow p12 and awa fro the pre pos of p
sho cau an inc in p12
it is tem to int the lea rul in equ 123 as app
opt of the con log lik : ( cid : 123 ) p12 ( cid : 123 ) log p
unf , the con log lik can ach its max val of 123 by sim mak all pos vec in the dat spa equ pro .
the con div dif fro the con log lik - lih by inc the ent of the dis p12 and p12 tio 123 ) , and so the hig ent of p12 rul out the sol in whi all pos dat vec are equ .
123 oth typ of exp
bin sto pix are not unr for mod pre ima of han dig in whi ink and bac are rep as 123 and 123
in rea ima , how , the is typ ver hig mut inf - mat bet the rea - val int of one pix and the rea - val int of its nei .
thi can be cap by mod tha use bi - nar sto pix bec a bin pix can nev hav mor tha 123 bit of mut inf wit any .
it is pos to use mul pix - els tha hav n dis val .
thi is a clu sol for ima bec it fai to cap the con and one - dim of pix int , tho it may be use for oth typ of dat .
a bet app is to ima rep eac vis uni so tha a pix cor to a who set of bin vis uni tha all hav ide wei to the hid uni .
the num of act uni in the set can the app a rea - val in - ten .
dur rec , the num of act uni wil be bin dis , and bec all the rep hav the sam wei , the sin pro tha con thi bin dis nee to be com onl onc .
the sam tri can be use to all rep hid uni to
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : a sca plo tha sho the rel mag of the mod and unm eff of a par wei upd on the con div .
the 123 net use for thi gur hav 123 vis and 123 hid uni , and the wei are dra fro a zer - mea gau wit a sta dev of 123
the hor axi sho ( p12 ( cid : 123 ) p ) ( p12 ( cid : 123 ) p
( new ) ) whe old and new den the dis bef and aft the wei upd .
thi mod red in the con div dif fro the tru red bec it ign the fac tha cha the wei cha the dis of the one - ste rec .
the inc in the ( new ) ( cid : 123 ) p
con div due to the ign ter , p12 is plo on the ver axi .
poi abo the dia lin wou cor to cas in whi the unm inc out the mod dec , so tha the net eff was to mak the con div wor .
not tha the unm eff alm alw cau an add imp in the con div rat tha bei in con wit the mod eff .
app rea val usi bin dis int sta .
a set of rep uni can be vie as a com che app to uni who wei act dif , or it can be vie as a sta app to the beh of a sin uni ove tim , in whi cas the num of act rep is a rin rat .
teh and hin ( 123 ) hav sho tha thi typ of rat cod can be qui eff for mod rea - val ima of fac , pro the ima are nor .
an alt to rep hid uni is to use uni exp tha eac con of a mix of a uni dis and a fac ana
geo e .
hin
wit jus one fac .
eac exp has a bin lat var tha spe whe to use the uni or the fac ana and a rea - val lat var tha spe the val of the fac ( if it is bei use ) .
the fac ana has thr set of par : a vec of fac loa tha spe - ify the dir of the fac in ima spa , a vec of mea in ima spa , and a vec of var in ima spa . 123 exp of thi typ hav bee exp in the con of dir acy gra ( hin , sal , & gha , 123 ) , but the sho wor bet in a poe .
an alt to usi a lar num of rel sim exp is to mak eac exp as com as pos , whi ret the abi to com the exa der of the log lik of the dat wit res to the par of an exp .
in mod sta ima , for exa , eac exp cou be a mix of man axi - ali gau .
som exp mig foc on one reg of an ima by usi ver hig var for pix out tha reg .
but so lon as the reg mod by dif exp ove , it sho be pos to avo blo bou art .
123 pro of hid mar mod .
hid mar mod ( hmm ) are of gre pra val in mod seq of dis sym or seq of rea - val vec bec the is an efc alg for upd the par of the hmm to imp the log lik - lih of a set of obs seq .
hmm are , how , qui lim in the gen pow bec the onl way tha the por of a str gen up to tim t can con the por of the str gen aft tim t is by the dis hid sta of the gen at tim t .
so if the rst par of a str has , on ave , n bit of mut inf wit the res of the str , the hmm mus hav 123 hid sta to con thi mut in - for by its cho of hid sta .
thi exp ine can be ove by usi a pro of hmm as a gen .
dur gen , eac hmm get to pic a hid sta at eac tim so the mut inf - tio bet the pas and the fut can be lin in the num of hmm .
it is the exp mor efc to hav man sma hmm tha one big one .
how , to app the sta for - bac alg to a pro of hmm , it is nec to tak the cro - pro of the sta - spa , whi thr awa the exp win .
for pro of hmm to be of pra sig , it is nec to nd an efc way to tra
and bro ( bro & hin , 123 ) has sho tha the lea alg in equ 123 wor wel .
the for - bac alg is use to get the gra of the log lik of an obs or rec
123 the las two set of par are exa equ to the par of a uni - gau exp int in sec 123 , so a uni exp can be con to be a mix of a uni wit a fac ana tha has no fac .
tra pro of exp
fig 123 : a hid mar mod .
the rst and thi nod hav out dis - tri tha are uni acr all wor .
if the rst nod has a hig tra pro to its , mos str of eng wor are giv the sam low pro - abi by thi exp .
str tha con the wor shu fol dir or ind by the wor up hav hig pro und thi exp .
seq wit res to the par of an ind exp .
the one - ste rec of a seq is gen as fol :
giv an obs seq , use the for - bac alg in eac exp sep to cal the pos pro dis - tio ove pat thr the hid sta .
for eac exp , sto sel a hid pat fro the pos
giv the obs seq .
at eac tim ste , sel an out sym or out vec fro the pro of the out dis spe by the sel hid sta of eac hmm .
if mor rea pro of hmm can be tra suc by min - miz the con div , the sho be bet tha sin hmm for man dif kin of seq dat .
con , for exa , the hmm sho in fig 123
thi exp con cap a non reg .
a sin hmm tha mus als mod all the oth reg in str of eng wor cou not cap thi reg efc bec it cou not aff to dev its ent mem cap to rem whe the wor shu had alr occ in the str .
the hav bee pre att to lea rep by adj par to can out the eff of bri ite in a rec net ( hin & mcc , 123 ore , 123 seu , 123 ) , but the wer
geo e .
hin
not for usi a sto gen mod and an app
min con div has an une sim to the lea alg pro by win ( 123 ) .
win pro com - par arc mad of blo wit nea mis sup by a tea , and it use the dif in its rep of the cor and inc arc to dec whi asp of its rep wer rel .
by usi a sto gen mod , we can dis wit the tea , but it is sti the dif bet the rea dat and the nea mis gen by the mod tha dri the lea of the sig fea .
123 log opi poo .
the ide of com the opi of mul dif exp mod by usi a wei ave in the log pro dom is far fro new ( gen & zid , 123 hes , 123 ) , but res has foc on how to nd the bes wei for com exp tha hav alr bee lea or pro sep ( ber , del pie , & del pie , 123 ) rat tha tra the exp coo .
the geo mea of a set of pro dis has the att pro tha its kul - lei div fro the tru dis , p , is sma tha the ave of the kul - lei div of the ind dis , q :
p ( cid : 123 ) mqw
wmk ( p ( cid : 123 ) qm )
whe the wm are non and sum to 123 , and z = ( cid : 123 ) m ( c ) .
whe all of the ind mod are ide , z = 123
oth , z is les tha one , and the dif bet the two sid of equ 123 is log ( 123 / z ) .
thi mak it cle tha the ben of com ver dif exp com fro the fac tha the mak z sma , esp in par of the dat spa tha do not con dat .
it is tem to aug poe by giv eac exp , m , an add ada par , wm , tha sca its log pro .
how , thi mak inf muc mor dif ( yee - why teh , per com , 123 ) .
con , for exa , an exp wit wm = 123
thi is equ to hav 123 cop of an exp but wit the lat sta all tie tog , and thi tyi aff the inf .
it is eas to x wm = 123 and all the poe lea alg to det the app sha of the
123 rel to boo .
wit the sup lea lit - tur , met suc as bag or boo att to mak exp dif - fer fro one ano by usi dif , or dif wei , tra dat .
aft lea , the met use the wei ave of the out - put of the ind exp .
the way in whi the out are com
tra pro of exp
is app for a con poe mod in whi the out of an ind - vid exp is the mea of a gau , its wei is the inv var of the gau , and the com out is the mea of the pro of all the ind gau .
zem and pit ( 123 ) hav rec sho tha thi vie all a ver of boo to be der as a gre met of opt a sen obj fun .
the fac tha boo wor wel for sup lea sug tha it sho be tri for uns lea .
in boo , the exp are lea seq , and eac new exp is tte to dat tha hav bee rew so tha dat vec tha are mod wel by the exi ex - per rec ver lit wei and hen mak ver lit con to the gra for the new exp .
a poe ts all the exp at onc , but it ach an eff sim to rew by sub the gra of the rec dat so tha the is ver lit lea on dat tha are al - rea mod wel .
one big adv of a poe ove boo is tha a poe can foc the lea on the par of a tra vec tha hav hig re - con err .
thi all poe to lea loc fea .
wit boo , an ent tra cas rec a sin sca wei rat tha a vec of rec err , so whe boo is use for uns lea , it doe not so eas dis loc fea .
123 com wit dir acy gra mod .
inf in a poe is tri bec the exp are ind tra and the pro - uct for ens tha the hid sta of dif exp are con - tio ind giv the dat . 123 thi mak the rel as mod of bio per sys , whi mus be abl to do inf ver rap .
alt app bas on dir acy gra mod ( nea , 123 ) suf fro the exp - awa phe .
whe suc gra mod are den con , exa inf is int , so it is nec to res to cle but imp slo ite tec for app inf ( sau & jor , 123 ) or to use cru app - tio tha ign exp awa dur inf and rel on the lea alg to nd rep for whi the sho inf tec is not too dam ( hin et al . , 123 ) .
unf , the eas of inf in poe is bal by the dif of gen fan dat fro the mod .
thi can be don tri in one anc pas in a dir acy gra mod but req an ite pro suc as gib sam in a poe .
if , how , equ 123 is use for lea , the dif of gen sam fro the mod is not a
in add to the eas of inf tha res fro the con in - dep of the exp giv the dat , poe hav a mor sub ad -
123 thi cea to be tru whe the are mis dat .
geo e .
hin
van ove gen mod tha wor by rst cho val for the lat var and the gen a dat vec fro the lat val .
if suc a mod has a sin hid lay and the lat var hav ind pri dis , the wil be a str ten for the pos val of the lat var in a wel - tte mod to ree the mar ind tha occ whe the mod gen dat . 123 for thi rea , the has bee lit suc wit att to lea suc gen - era mod one hid lay at a tim in a gre , bot - up way .
wit poe , how , eve tho the exp hav ind pri , the lat var in dif exp wil be mar dep : the can be hig cor acr cas eve for fan dat gen by the poe its .
so aft the rst hid lay has bee lea gre , the may sti be lot of sta str in the lat var for the sec hid lay to cap .
the is the som hop tha an en - tir uns net cou lea to ext a hie of rep - sen fro pat of rea ima , but pro tow thi goa re - qui an eff way of dea wit rea - val dat .
the typ of ex - per tha hav bee inv so far hav not per as wel as ind - pen com ana at ext fea lik edg fro nat
the mos att pro of a set of ort bas fun is tha it is pos to com the coe on eac bas fun sep wit wor abo the coe on oth bas fun .
a poe ret thi att pro whi all non exp and a non gen mod .
123 lat con bet hid uni .
the eas of inf the sta of the hid uni ( lat var ) giv the dat is a maj adv of poe .
thi adv app to be los if the lat var of dif exp are all to int dir .
if , for exa , the are dir , sym con bet the hid uni in a res bol mac , it bec int to inf the exa dis ove hid sta whe giv the vis sta .
how , pre sim sho tha the con div ide can sti be app suc usi a dam mea - eld met to nd an app dis ove the hid uni for bot the dat vec and its rec - str .
the lea pro the has the fol ste for eac dat
123 thi is eas to und fro a cod per in whi the dat are com - nic by rst spe the sta of the lat var und an ind pri and the spe the dat giv the lat sta .
if the lat sta are not mar in - dep , thi cod sch is ine , so pre tow cod efc cre pre tow ind .
tra pro of exp
wit the dat vec cla on the vis uni , com the tot bot - up inp , xj , to eac hid uni , j , and ini it to hav rea - val sta , q12
= ( xj ) , whe ( . ) is the log fun .
per 123 dam mea - eld ite in whi eac hid uni
com its tot lat inp yt j at tim t ,
and the adj its sta , qt
+ 123 ( xj + yt
als mea q12
for eac pai of a vis uni , i , and a hid uni , j .
for all pai of hid uni , j , k .
pic a nal bin sta for eac hid uni , j , acc to q12 use the bin sta to gen a rec dat vec .
per one mor dam mea - eld ite on the hid uni sta fro the nal sta fou wit the dat , but usi the bot - up inp fro the rec rat tha the dat .
mea the sam sta as abo .
upd eve wei in pro to the dif in the mea
sta in ste 123 and 123
it is nec for the mea - eld ite to con for thi pro - dur to wor , whi may req lim or dec the wei on the lat con .
the usu wor the mea - eld app is hop for mul dis not be rel for lea - ing a per sys , sin it mak sen to avo lea mod of the wor in whi the are mul , ver dif int of the sam sen inp .
con div lea nes the pro of ndi the hig mul equ dis tha res if bot vis and hid uni are unc .
it doe thi by ass tha the obs dat cov all of the dif mod wit rou the rig fre for eac mod .
the fac tha the ini sim wor is ver pro sin net - wor wit mul hid lay can alw be vie as net tha hav a sin lat con hid lay wit man of the lat and fee con mis .
how , the tim tak for the net - wor to set mea tha net wit lat con are con slo tha pur fee net , and mor res is req to dem tha the los of spe is wor the ext rep
geo e .
hin
a muc sim way to use xed lat int is to div the hid uni int mut exc poo .
wit eac poo , exa one hid uni is all to tur on , and thi uni is cho usi the sof
pj = exp ( xj )
cur , thi typ of pro win - tak - all com amo the hid uni has no eff wha on the con div lea rul .
the lea doe not eve nee to kno whi hid uni com wit eac oth .
the com can be imp in a ver sim way by mak eac hid uni , j , be a poi pro wit a rat of exp ( xj ) .
the rst uni to emi a spi is the win .
the oth uni in the poo cou the be shu off by an inh uni tha is exc by the win .
if the poo is all to pro a xed num of spi bef bei shu off , the lea rul rem una , but qua lik sj may tak on int val lar tha 123
if a hid uni is all to be a mem of sev dif ove poo , the ana get muc mor dif , and mor res is nee .
123 rel to ana - by - syn .
poe pro an efc ins of the old psy ide of ana - by - syn .
thi ide nev wor pro bec the gen mod wer not sel to mak the ana eas .
in a poe , it is dif to gen dat fro the gen mod , but giv the mod , it is eas to com how any giv dat vec mig hav bee gen , and , as we hav see , it is rel eas to lea the par of the gen mod .
par , the gen mod tha are mos app for ana - by - syn may be the one in whi syn is int .
thi res was fun by the gat cha fou .
tha to zou gha , dav mac , pet day , rad nea , dav low , yee - why teh , guy may , and bro , and oth mem of the gat uni for hel dis and to the ref for man hel com tha imp the art .
