dee and rec neu net ( dnn and rnn res ) are pow mod - els tha wer con to be alm imp - sib to tra usi sto gra de - sce wit mom .
in thi pap , we sho tha whe sto gra des wit mom use a wel - des ran ini and a par typ of slo inc sch for the mom pa - ram , it can tra bot dnn and rnn ( on dat wit lon - ter dep ) to lev of per tha wer pre ach onl wit hes - fre opt - tio .
we nd tha bot the ini and the mom are cru sin poo ini net can be tra wit mom and wel - ini net per - for mar wor whe the mom is abs or poo tun .
our suc tra the mod sug tha pre att to tra dee and re - cur neu net fro ran ini - iza hav lik fai due to poo ini - tia sch .
fur , car tun mom met suc for dea wit the cur iss in dee and rec - ren net tra obj wit the nee for sop sec - ord met .
dee and rec neu net ( dnn and rnn , res ) are pow mod tha ach hig per on dic pat rec pro - lem in vis , and spe ( kri et al . , 123 hin et al . , 123 dah et al . , 123 gra , 123 ) .
alt the rep pow is app , the dic of tra dnn has pre the
pro of the 123 th int con on ma - chi lea , atl , geo , usa , 123
w&c vol 123
cop 123 by the aut ( s ) .
wid use unt fai rec .
dnn bec the sub of ren att fol the wor of hin et al .
( 123 ) who int the ide of gre lay pre - tra .
thi app has sin bra int a fam of met ( ben et al . , 123 ) , all of whi tra the lay of the dnn in a seq usi an aux obj and the ne - tun the ent net wit sta opt met suc as sto gra des ( sgd ) .
mor rec , mar ( 123 ) att con att by sho tha a typ of tru - new met cal hes - fre opt ( hf ) is cap - ble of tra dnn fro cer ran ini - tio wit the use of pre - tra , and can ach low err for the var aut - enc tas con - sid by hin & sal ( 123 ) .
rec neu net ( rnn ) , the tem ana - log of dnn , are hig exp seq mod - els tha can mod com seq rel .
the can be vie as ver dee neu net tha hav a lay for eac tim - ste wit par - ter sha acr the lay and , for thi rea , the are con to be eve har to tra tha dnn .
rec , mar & sut ( 123 ) sho tha the hf met of mar ( 123 ) cou eec tra rnn on art pro tha exh ver lon - ran dep ( hoc & sch , 123 ) .
wit res to spe typ of mem uni , the pro wer con to be imp - bly dic for rst - ord opt met due to the wel kno van gra pro ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
sut et al .
( 123 ) and lat mik et al .
( 123 ) the app hf to tra rnn to per - for cha - lev lan mod and ach
rec , sev res hav app to cha the com hel bel tha sim rst - ord met are inc of lea dee mod fro ran ini .
the wor of glo & ben - gio ( 123 ) , moh et al .
( 123 ) , and kri et al .
( 123 ) rep lit dic tra neu net wit dep up to 123 fro cer wel - cho
123 was don whi the aut was at the uni
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
ran ini .
not , cha & erh ( 123 ) use the ran ini of glo & ben - gio ( 123 ) and sgd to tra the 123 - lay aut of hin & sal ( 123 ) , and wer abl to sur the res rep by hin & sal - nov ( 123 ) .
whi the res sti fal sho of tho rep in mar ( 123 ) for the sam tas , the ind tha lea dee net is not nea as har as was pre bel .
the rst con of thi pap is a muc mor tho inv of the dic of tra dee and tem net tha has bee pre don .
in par , we stu the eec of sgd whe com wit wel - cho ini sch and var for of mom - bas acc .
we sho tha whi a den per gap see to exi bet pla sgd and hf on cer dee and tem lea pro , thi gap can be eli - nat or nea eli ( dep on the pro - lem ) by car use of cla mom met or nes acc gra .
in par , we sho how cer car des sch for the con of mom , whi are ins by var - iou the con - rat the ( nes , 123 123 ) , pro res tha eve sur tho re - por by mar ( 123 ) on cer dee - aut tra tas .
for the lon - ter dep rnn tas exa in mar & sut ( 123 ) , whi rst app in hoc & sch ( 123 ) , we obt res tha fal jus sho of tho rep in tha wor , whe a con mor com ap - pro was use .
our res are par sur giv tha mo - men and its use wit neu net opt - tio has bee stu ext bef , suc as in the wor of orr ( 123 ) , and it was nev fou to hav suc an imp rol in dee lea .
one exp is tha pre the ana and pra ben - mar foc on loc con in the sto set , whi is mor of an est pro tha an opt one ( bot & lec , 123 ) .
in dee lea pro thi nal pha of lea is not nea as lon or imp as the ini tra pha ( dar & moo , 123 ) , whe a bet ar - gum can be mad for the ben eec of mo -
in add to the ina foc on pur loc con rat , we bel tha the use of poo de - sig sta ran ini , suc as tho in hin & sal ( 123 ) , and sub met - par sch ( for the mom con - sta in par ) has ham the dis of the tru eec of rst - ord mom met in dee lea .
we car avo bot of the pit - fal in our exp and pro a sim to und - sta and eas to use fra for dee lea tha
is sur eec and can be nat com wit tec suc as tho in rai et al .
( 123 ) .
we wil als dis the lin bet cla mo - men and nes acc gra met ( whi has bee the sub of muc rec stu in con opt the ) , arg tha the lat can be vie as a sim mod of the for whi inc sta , and can som pro a dis imp in per we dem in our exp .
we per a the ana whi mak cle the pre die in loc be - hav of the two alg .
add , we sho how hf emp wha can be vie as a typ of mo - men thr its use of spe ini to con gra tha are com fro the up - dat at the pre tim - ste .
we use thi pro to dev a mor mom - lik ver of hf whi com som of the adv of bot met to fur imp on the res of mar ( 123 ) .
mom and nes
the mom met ( pol , 123 ) , whi we ref to as cla mom ( cm ) , is a tec for ac - cel gra des tha acc a vel vec in dir of per red in the ob - jec acr ite .
giv an obj fun f ( ) to be min , cla mom is giv by :
vt+ = vt " rf ( t ) t+1 = t + vt+
whe " > 123 is the lea rat , 123 ( 123 , 123 ) is the mo - men coe , and rf ( t ) is the gra at t .
sin dir d of low - cur hav , by den - tio , slo loc cha in the rat of red ( i . e . , d>r ) , the wil ten to per acr ite and be amp by cm .
sec - ord met als am - pli ste in low - cur dir , but ins of acc cha the rew the upd alo eac eig - dir of the cur mat by the in - ver of the ass cur .
and jus as sec - ord met enj imp loc con rat , pol ( 123 ) sho tha cm can con acc - era con to a loc min , req pr - tim few ite tha ste des to rea the sam lev of acc , whe r is the con num of the cur at the min and is set
to ( pr 123 ) / ( pr + 123 ) .
nes acc gra ( abb .
nag nes - ter , 123 ) has bee the sub of muc rec at - ten by the con opt com ( e . g . , cot et al . , 123 lan , 123 ) .
lik mom , nag is a rst - ord opt met wit bet con rat gua tha gra des in
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
in par , for gen smo ( non - str ) con fun and a det gra , nag ach a glo con rat of o ( 123 / t 123 ) ( ver the o ( 123 / t ) of gra des ) , wit con pro to the lip coe of the der and the squ euc dis to the sol .
whi nag is not typ tho of as a typ of mom , it ind tur out to be clo re - lat to cla mom , die onl in the pre - cis upd of the vel vec v , the sig of whi we wil dis in the nex sub - sec .
spe - cal , as sho in the app , the nag upd may be rew as :
vt+ = vt " rf ( t + vt ) t+1 = t + vt+
whi the cla con the for bot met - ods rel on noi gra est ( i . e . , not sto ) , wit som car in pra the are bot app to the sto set .
how , the the - ory pre tha any adv in ter of asy - tot loc rat of con wil be los ( orr , 123 wie et al . , 123 ) , a res als con in ex - per ( lec et al . , 123 ) .
for the rea , int in mom met dim aft the had rec sub att in the 123 .
and be - cau of thi app inc wit sto opt , som aut eve dis usi mo - men or dow its pot adv ( lec et al . , 123 ) .
how , whi loc con is all tha mat in ter of asy con rat ( and on cer - tai ver sim / sha neu net opt pro it may eve dom the tot tim ) , in pra , the tra pha of con ( dar & moo , 123 ) , whi occ bef ne lo - cal con set in , see to mat a lot mor for opt dee neu net .
in thi tra pha of lea , dir of red in the ob - jec ten to per acr man suc gra est and are not com swa by noi .
alt the tra pha of lea is mos no - tic in tra dee lea mod , it is sti no - tic in con obj .
the con rat of sto gra des on smo con fun - tio is giv by o ( l / t + / pt ) , whe is the var in the gra est and l is the lip - shi coe of rf .
in con , the con rat of an acc gra met of lan ( 123 ) ( whi is rel to but die fro nag , in tha it com nes sty mom wit dua ave - agi ) is o ( l / t 123 + / pt ) .
thu , for con obj - tiv , mom - bas met wil out sgd in the ear or tra sta of the opt whe l / t is the dom ter .
how , the two met wil be equ eec dur the nal sta
ter acc gra
( top ) cla mom ( bot ) nes -
of the opt whe / pt is the dom ter ( i . e . , whe the opt pro res an es -
the rel bet cm and nag
fro eqs .
123 - 123 we see tha bot cm and nag com the new vel by app a gra - bas cor - tio to the pre vel vec ( whi is dec ) , and the add the vel to t .
but whi cm com - put the gra upd fro the cur pos t , nag rst per a par upd to t , com - ing t + vt , whi is sim to t+1 , but mis the as yet unk cor .
thi ben - loo dif - fer see to all nag to cha v in a qui and mor res way , let it beh mor sta - bly tha cm in man sit , esp for hig val of .
ind , con the sit whe the add of vt res in an imm und inc in the obj f .
the gra cor to the ve - loc vt is com at pos t + vt and if vt is ind a poo upd , the rf ( t + vt ) wil poi bac tow t mor str tha rf ( t ) doe , thu pro a lar and mor tim cor to vt tha cm .
123 for a dia whi ill thi phe geo .
whi eac ite of nag may onl be sli mor eec tha cm at cor a lar and ina vel , thi die in eec may com as the al - gor ite .
to dem thi com , we app bot nag and cm to a two - dim obl qua obj , bot wit the sam mo - men and lea rat con ( see g .
123 in the app ) .
whi the opt pat tak by cm exh lar osc alo the hig - cur ver - tic dir , nag is abl to avo the osc alm ent , con the int tha it is muc mor eec tha cm at dec ove the cou of mul ite , thu mak nag mor tol of lar val of com to cm .
in ord to mak the int mor rig and
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
hel qua pre the way in whi cm and nag die , we ana the beh of eac met whe app to a pos den qua obj q ( x ) = x>a / 123 + b>x .
we can thi of cm and nag as ope ind ove the die eig - rec of a .
nag ope alo any one of the dir equ to cm , exc wit an eec val of tha is giv by ( 123 " ) , whe is the
q ( x ) = q ( u>y ) = y>u u>y / 123 + b>u = p as p ( y ) =pn
the rst ste of thi arg is to rep q ( x ) in ter of the coe of x und the bas of eig of a .
not tha sin a = u>d for a dia d and ort u ( as a is sym ) , we can rep q ( x ) by the mat tra u and opt y = u x usi the obj p ( y ) y>d / 123 + c>y , whe c = u b .
we can fur rew i=1 ( p ) i ( ( y ) i ) , whe ( p ) i ( t ) = it1 / 123 ( c ) it and i > 123 are the dia ent of d ( and thu the eig of a ) and cor to the cur - tur alo the ass eig dir .
as sho in the app ( pro 123 ) , bot cm and nag , bei rst - ord met , are inv to the kin of rep by ort tra suc as u .
thu whe ana the beh of eit alg app to q ( x ) , we can in - ste app the to p ( y ) , and tra the res seq of ite bac to the def par - tio ( via mul by u12 = u> ) .
the 123 .
let p ( y ) = pn
i=1 ( p ) i ( ( y ) i ) suc tha ( p ) i ( t ) = it1 / 123 + cit .
let " be arb and xed .
den by cm x ( , p , y , v ) and cm v ( , p , y , v ) the pa - ram vec and the vel vec res , ob - tai by app one ste of cm ( i . e . , eq .
123 and the eq .
123 ) to the fun p at poi y , wit vel v , mom coe , and lea rat " .
den n agx and n agv ana .
the the fol hol for z 123 ( x , v ) :
cm z ( , ( p ) 123 , ( y ) 123 , ( v ) 123 )
cm z ( , ( p ) n , ( y ) n , ( v ) n ) cm z ( ( 123 123 " ) , ( p ) 123 , ( y ) 123 , ( v ) 123 )
cm z ( , p , y , v ) =12 n agz ( , p , y , v ) =12
cm z ( ( 123 n " ) , ( p ) n , ( y ) n , ( v ) n )
see the app .
the the has sev imp .
fir , cm and nag bec equ whe " is sma ( whe " 123 for eve eig of a ) , so nag and cm are dis onl whe " is rea lar .
whe " is rel lar , nag use sma eec mom for the hig - cur eig - dir , whi pre
osc ( or div ) and thu all the use of a lar tha is pos wit cm for a giv " .
dee aut
the aim of our exp is thr - fol .
fir , to inv the att per of sto mom met on dee aut sta fro wel - des ran ini sec , to exp the imp and eec of the sch for the mom par ass an opt xed cho of the lea rat " ; and thi , to com the per of nag ver cm .
for our exp wit fee - for net , we fo - cus on tra the thr dee aut pro - lem des in hin & sal ( 123 ) ( see sec .
a . 123 for det ) .
the tas of the neu net - wor aut is to rec its own inp sub - jec to the con tha one of its hid lay is of low - dim .
thi bot lay act as a low - dim cod for the ori inp , sim to oth dim red tec lik pri - ple com ana ( pca ) .
the aut are som of the dee neu net wit pub - lis res , ran bet 123 and 123 lay , and hav bec a sta ben pro ( e . g . , mar , 123 glo & ben , 123 cha & er - han , 123 rai et al . , 123 ) .
see the app for
bec the foc of thi stu is on opt , we onl rep tra err in our exp .
tes err dep str on the amo of ove in the pro , whi in tur dep on the typ and amo of reg use dur tra .
whi reg is an iss of vit imp whe de - sig sys of pra uti , it is out the sco of our dis .
and whi it cou be ob - jec tha the gai ach usi bet opt - tio met are onl due to mor exa tti of the tra set in a man tha doe not gen , thi is sim not the cas in the pro , whe und - tra sol are kno to per poo on bot the tra and tes set ( und ) .
the net we tra use the sta sig non and wer ini usi the spa ini - tia tec ( si ) of mar ( 123 ) tha is des in sec .
eac tri con of 123 , 123 par upd on min of siz 123
no reg - ula is use .
the sch for was giv by the fol for :
t = min ( 123 123 ( bt / 123 ) , max )
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
thi sch was mo - tiv by nes ( 123 ) who adv usi wha amo to t = 123 123 / ( t + 123 ) aft som man
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 sgd
tab 123
the tab rep the squ err on the pro for eac com of max and a mom typ ( nag , cm ) .
whe max is 123 the cho of nag vs cm is of no con so the tra err are pre in a sin col .
for eac cho of max , the hig - per lea rat is use .
the col sgd lis the res of cha & erh ( 123 ) who use 123 sgd ste and tan net .
the col hf lis the res of hf wit l12 reg , as des in sec .
123 and the col hf lis the res of mar ( 123 ) .
tab 123
the eec of low - mom net for nag .
the tab sho the tra squ err bef and aft the mom coe is red .
dur the pri - mar ( tra ) pha of lea we use the opt mom and lea rat .
( see app ) , and by nes ( 123 ) who adv a con t tha dep on ( ess ) the con - dit num .
the con t ach exp con on str con fun , whi the 123 123 / ( t + 123 ) sch is app whe the fun is not str con .
the sch of eq .
123 ble the pro .
for eac cho of max , we rep the lea rat tha ach the bes tra err .
giv the sch for , the lea rat " was cho fro ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) in ord to ach the low nal err tra err aft our xed num of upd .
tab 123 sum the res of the exp .
it sho tha nag ach the low pub res on thi set of pro , inc tho of it als sho tha lar val of max ten to ach bet per and tha nag usu out cm , esp whe max is 123 and 123 .
mos sur and imp , the res dem tha nag can ach res tha are com wit som of the bes hf res for tra dee aut .
not tha the pre - ous pub res on hf use l12 reg , so the can be dir com .
how , the tab als inc exp we per wit an imp ver of hf ( see sec .
123 ) whe wei dec was rem tow the end of tra .
we fou it ben to red to 123 ( unl is 123 , in whi cas it is unc ) dur the nal 123 par upd of the opt wit red the lea rat , as sho in tab 123
app tha red the mom coe al - low for ner con to tak pla whe oth - erw the ove agg nat of cm or nag
wou pre thi .
thi pha shi bet opt - miz tha fav fas acc mot alo the err sur ( the tra pha ) fol by mor car opt - as - est pha see con - ten wit the pic pre by dar & moo ( 123 ) .
how , whi asy it is the sec pha whi mus eve dom com tim , in pra it see tha for dee net in par , the rst pha dom ove com - tio tim as lon as the sec pha is cut o bef the rem pot gai bec eit ins - can or ent dom by ove ( or bot ) .
it may be tem the to use low val of fro the out , or to red it imm whe pro in red the err app to slo dow .
how , in our exp we fou tha doi thi was det - men in ter of the nal err we cou ach , and tha des app to not mak muc pro , or eve bec sig non - mon , the op - tim wer doi som app use ove the ext per of tim at hig val of .
a spe exp as to why we see thi be - hav is as fol .
whi a lar val of all the mom met to mak use pro alo slo - cha dir of low - cur , thi may not imm res in a sig red in er - ror , due to the fai of the met to con in the mor tur hig - cur dir ( whi is esp har whe is lar ) .
nev , thi pro in low - cur dir tak the opt - ers to new reg of the par spa tha are cha by clo pro to the opt ( in the cas of a con obj ) , or jus hig - qua loc min ( in the cas of non - con opt - tio ) .
thu , whi it is imp to ado a mor car sch tha all ne con to tak pla alo the hig - cur dir , thi mus be don wit car .
red and mov to thi ne con reg too ear may mak it dic for the opt to mak sig pro alo the low - cur dir , sin wit the ben of mom - bas acc , rst - ord met are not bad at thi ( whi is wha mot the use of sec - ord met lik hf for dee lea -
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
si sca mul
tab 123
the tab rep the tra squ err tha is att by cha the sca of the ini .
ran ini
the res in the pre sec wer obt wit sta log sig neu net tha wer ini wit the spa ini tec ( si ) des in mar ( 123 ) .
in thi sch , eac ran - dom uni is con to 123 ran cho uni in the pre lay , who wei are dra fro a uni gau , and the bia are set to zer .
the in - tui jus is tha the tot amo of inp to eac uni wil not dep on the siz of the pre - ous lay and hen the wil not as eas sat .
mea , bec the inp to eac uni are not all ran wei ble of the out of man 123 or 123 of uni in the pre lay , the wil ten to be qua mor div in the res to inp .
whe usi tan uni , we tra the wei to sim sig uni by set the bia to 123 and res the wei by 123 .
we inv the per of the opt as a fun of the sca con use in si ( whi def to 123 for sig uni ) .
we fou tha si wor rea wel if it is res by a fac of 123 , but lea to not ( but not sev ) slo dow whe sca by a fac of 123
whe we use the fac 123 / 123 or 123 we did not ach sen res .
rec neu net
ech - sta net ( esn ) is a fam of rnn wit an unu sim tra met : the hid - to - out con are lea fro dat , but the re - cur con are xed to a ran dra fro a spe dis and are not lea .
des the sim , esn wit man hid uni ( or wit uni wit exp tem int , lik the lst ) hav ach hig per on tas wit lon ran dep ( ? ) .
in thi sec , we inv - tig the eec of mom - bas met wit esn - ins ini at tra rnn wit con siz and sta ( i . e . , non - int ) neu .
we nd tha mom - acc sgd can suc tra suc rnn on var art dat exh con lon - ran tem dep .
thi is une bec rnn wer bel to be alm imp to suc tra on suc dat wit rst - ord met , due to var - iou dic suc as van / exp gra ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
whi we fou tha the use of mom sig imp per and rob , we obt non res eve wit sta sgd , pro tha the lea rat was set low eno .
spe rad of 123
123 ( 123 , 123 ) 123 ( 123 , 123 ) 123 ( 123 , 123 )
ave of out
tab 123
the rnn ini use in the exp .
the sca of the vis - hid con is pro dep .
eac tas inv opt the par of a ran - dom ini rnn wit 123 sta tan hid uni ( the sam mod use by mar & sut ( 123 ) ) .
the tas wer des by hoc & sch ( 123 ) , and are ref to as tra pro .
see sec .
a . 123 of the app for det .
esn - bas ini
as arg by jae & haa ( 123 ) , the spe ra - diu of the hid - to - hid mat has a pro eec on the dyn of the rnn hid sta ( wit a tan non ) .
whe it is sma tha 123 , the dyn wil hav a ten to qui for - get wha inp sig the may hav bee ex - pos to .
whe it is muc lar tha 123 , the dy - nam bec osc and cha , all it to gen res tha are var for die inp his .
whi thi all inf to be ret ove man tim ste , it can als lea to sev exp - ing gra tha mak gra - bas lea muc mor dic .
how , whe the spe rad is onl sli gre tha 123 , the dyn rem os - cil and cha whi the gra are no lon exp ( and if the do exp , the onl sli so ) , so lea may be pos wit a spe ra - diu of thi ord .
thi sug tha a spe rad of aro 123 may be eec .
to ach rob res , we als fou it is ess to car set the ini sca of the inp - to - hid con .
whe tra rnn to sol tho tas tha pos man ran and irr dis in - put , we fou tha hav the sca of the con - tio set too hig at the sta led to rel inf - tio in the hid sta bei too eas ove by the man irr sig , whi ult led the opt to con tow an ext poo loc min whe use inf was nev re - lay ove lon dis .
con , we fou tha if thi sca was set too low , it led to sig slo lea .
hav exp wit mul sca we fou tha a gau dra wit a sta dev of 123 ach a goo bal bet the con - cer .
how , unl the val of 123 for the spe rad of the dyn mat , whi wor wel on all tas , we fou tha goo cho for ini sca of the inp - to - hid wei dep a lot on the par cha of the par tas ( suc
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
as its dim or the inp var ) .
ind , for tas tha do not hav man irr inp , a lar sca of the inp - to - hid wei ( nam , 123 ) wor bet , bec the afo dis - adv of lar inp - to - hid wei doe not app .
see tab 123 for a sum of the ini use in the exp .
fin , we fou cen ( mea sub ) of bot the inp and the out to be imp to rel sol all of the tra pro .
see the app for mor det .
exp res
we con exp to det the e - cac of our ini , the eec of mom , and to com nag wit cm .
eve lea tri use the afo ini , 123 , 123 par - ete upd and on min of 123 seq , and the fol sch for the mom co - eci : = 123 for the rst 123 par , aft whi = 123 , whe 123 can tak the fol - low val ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for eac 123 , we use the emp bes lea rat cho fro ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the res are pre in tab 123 , whi are the av - era los ove 123 die ran see .
ins of re - por the los bei min ( whi is the squ err or cro ent ) , we use a mor int zer - one los , as is sta pra wit the pro - lem .
for the bit mem , we rep the fra - tio of tim tha are com inc .
and for the add and the mul pro , we rep the fra of cas whe the rnn the err in the nal out pre exc 123 .
our res sho tha des the con lon - ran dep pre in tra dat for the pro , rnn can be suc and rob tra to sol the , thr the use of the ini - iza dis in sec .
123 , mom of the nag typ , a lar 123 , and a par sma lea rat ( as com wit fee net ) .
our res als sug tha wit lar val of 123 ach bet - ter res wit nag but not wit cm , pos due to nag tol of lar 123 ( as dis in sec
alt we wer abl to ach sur goo tra per on the pro usi a suf - cie str mom , the res of mar & sut ( 123 ) app to be mod bet and mor rob .
the ach low err rat and the ini was cho wit les car , alt the ini are in man way sim to our .
no - tab , mar & sut ( 123 ) wer abl to sol the pro wit cen , whi we had to use cen to sol the mul pro ( the oth pro are alr cen ) .
thi sug tha the ini pro her , tog wit the met of mar & sut ( 123 ) , cou ach
eve bet per .
but the mai ach of the res is a dem of the abi of mom met to cop wit lon - ran tem - ral dep tra tas to a lev whi see suc for mos pra pur .
mor , our app see to be mor tol of sma min - bat , and is con sim tha the par - ula ver of hf pro in mar & sut ( 123 ) , whi use a spe upd dam tec - niq who ben see mos lim to tra rnn to sol the kin of ext tem dep -
mom and hf
tru new met , tha inc the hf met of mar ( 123 ) as a par exa , wor by opt a loc qua mod of the obj via the lin con gra alg ( cg ) , whi is a rst - ord met .
whi hf , lik all tru - new met , tak ste com usi par con cal to cg , it is nat acc alo at lea som dir of low cur - vat com to the gra .
it can eve be sho ( mar & sut , 123 ) tha cg wil ten to fa - vor con to the exa sol to the qua sub - pro rst alo hig cur dir ( wit a bia tow tho whi are mor clu tog in the cur - sca / eig ) .
whi cg acc inf as it ite whi all it to be opt in a muc str sen tha any oth rst - ord met ( lik nag ) , onc it is ter , thi inf is los .
thu , sta tru new met can be tho of as per - sis inf whi acc con ( of the cur qua ) onl ove the num of ite - tio cg per .
by con , mom met per inf tha can inf new upd acr an arb num of ite .
one key die bet sta tru new - ton met and hf is the use of hot - sta cal to cg , whi use as the ini sol the one fou at the pre cal to cg .
whi thi sol was com - put usi old gra and cur inf fro a pre poi in par spa and pos - bly a die set of tra dat , it may be wel - con alo cer eig - dir of the new qua , des bei ver poo con alo oth ( per wor tha the def ini sol of ~ 123 ) .
how , to the ext to whi the new loc qua mod res the old one , and in par - ula in the mor dic to opt dir of low - cur ( whi wil arg be mor lik to per - sis acr nea loc in par spa ) , the pre sol wil be a pre sta poi to 123 , and may eve all for gra inc lev of con alo cer dir whi per
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
add t = 123 mul t = 123
mem - 123 t = 123 mem - 123 t = 123
123 123 123
tab 123
eac col rep the err ( zer - one los sec .
123 ) on die pro for eac com of 123 and mom typ ( nag , cm ) , ave ove 123 die ran see .
the bia col lis the err att by lea the out bia and ign the hid sta .
thi is the err of an rnn tha fai to est com - cat bet its inp and tar .
for eac 123 , we use the xed lea rat tha gav the bes per .
in the loc qua mod acr man upd .
the con bet hf and mom met can be mad mor con by not tha a sin ste of cg is eec a gra upd tak fro the cur poi , plu the pre upd rea , jus as wit nag , and tha if cg ter aft jus 123 ste , hf bec equ to nag , exc tha it use a spe for bas on the cur mat for the lea rat ins of a xed con .
the mos eec imp of hf eve emp a dec con ( mar & sut , 123 ) whi act ana to the mom con .
thu , in thi sen , the cg ini use by hf all us to vie it as a hyb of nag and an exa sec - ord met , wit the num of cg ite use to com eac upd eec act as a dia bet the two ext .
ins by the sur suc of mom - bas met for dee lea pro , we exp wit mak hf beh eve mor lik nag tha it al - rea doe .
the res app per sur - ing wel ( see tab 123 ) .
for a mor det acc of the exp , see sec .
a . 123 of the app .
if vie on the bas of eac cg ste ( ins of eac upd to par ) , hf can be tho of as a pec typ of rst - ord met whi app - ima the obj as a ser of qua onl so tha it can mak use of the pow rst - ord cg met .
so apa fro any pot ben to glo con fro its ten to pre cer dir - tio of mov in par spa ove oth , per - hap the mai the ben to usi hf ove a rst - ord met lik nag is its use of cg , whi , whi its a rst - ord met , is wel kno to hav str opt con pro for qua - ics , and can tak adv of clu eig to acc con ( see mar & sut ( 123 ) for a det acc of thi wel - kno phe - nom ) .
how , it is kno tha in the wor cas tha cg , whe run in bat mod , wil con asy no fas tha nag ( als run in bat mod ) for cer spe des qua wit ver eve dis eig / cur .
thu it is wor ask whe the qua whi ari dur the opt of neu net by hf are suc tha cg has a dis adv in opt
the ove nag , or if the are clo to the afo - tio wor - cas exa .
to exa thi que we too a qua gen dur the mid of a typ run of hf on the cur dat and com the con rat of cg , ini fro zer , to nag ( als ini fro zer ) .
fig 123 in the ap - pen pre the res of thi exp .
whi thi exp ind som pot adv to hf , the clo of the per of nag and hf sug tha the res mig be exp by the sol lea the are of tru in the qua be - for any ext spe kic in , or mor sub , tha the fai of app goe dow jus eno as cg ite to ose the ben of the acc
mar ( 123 ) and mar & sut ( 123 ) dem the eec of the hf met as a too for per opt for whi pre - ous att to app sim rst - ord met had fai .
whi som rec wor ( cha & erh , 123 glo & ben , 123 ) sug tha rst - ord met can act ach som suc on the kin of pro whe use in con wit goo ini , the res sti fel sho of tho re - por for hf .
in thi pap we hav com thi pic and dem con tha a lar par of the rem per gap tha is not add by usi a wel - des ran ini - tio is in fac add by car use of mom - bas acc ( pos of the nes typ ) .
we sho tha car att mus be pai to the mo - men con , as pre by the the for loc and con opt .
mom - acc sgd , des bei a rst - ord app , is cap of acc dir low - cur jus lik an app new met suc as hf .
our exp sup the ide tha thi is imp , as we obs tha the use of str mom ( as det by ) had a dra - mat eec on opt per , par for the rnn .
mor , we sho tha hf can be vie as a rst - ord met , and as a gen of nag in par , and tha it alr der som of its ben thr a mom - lik mec .
on the imp of ini and mom in dee lea
lec , y . , bot , l . , orr , g . , and mul , k .
eci bac .
neu net : tri of the tra , pp
mar , j .
dee lea via hes - fre opt .
in pro of the 123 int con on mac lea ( icm ) , 123
mar , j .
and sut , i .
lea rec neu net wit hes - fre opt .
in pro of the 123 int con on mac lea - ing ( icm ) , pp .
123 , 123
mar , j .
and sut , i .
tra dee and rec net wit hes - fre opt .
neu net - wor : tri of the tra , pp .
123 , 123
mik , tom , sut ,
ily , deo , ano , le , hai - son , kom , ste , and cer , j .
wor lan mod wit neu net .
pre ( htt : / / www .
cz / imi / rnn / cha
moh , a . , dah , g . e . , and hin , g .
aco mod - eli usi dee bel net .
aud , spe , and lan pro , iee tra on , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 123 , jan
nes , y .
a met of sol a con pro - min pro wit con rat o ( 123 / sqr ( k ) ) .
sov mat dok , 123 : 123 , 123
nes , y .
int lec on con opt :
a bas cou , vol 123
spr , 123
orr , g . b .
dyn and alg for sto sea .
pol , b . t .
som met of spe up the con of ite met .
uss com mat and mat phy , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
rai , tap , val , har , and lec , yan .
dee lea mad eas by lin tra in per - tro .
in nip 123 wor on dee lea and uns fea lea , sie nev , spa ,
sut , i . , mar , j . , and hin , g .
gen tex wit rec neu net .
in pro of the 123 int con on mac lea , icm 123 , pp .
123 , jun 123
wie , w . , kom , a . , and hes , t .
sto - tic dyn of lea wit mom in neu net - wor .
jou of phy a : mat and gen ,
