we des a pro app to the tas of pla obj , de - scr by hig - dim vec or by pai dis , in a low - dim spa in a way tha pre nei ide .
a gau is cen on eac obj in the hig - dim spa and the den und thi gau ( or the giv dis ) are use to den a pro dis ove all the pot nei of the obj .
the aim of the emb is to app thi dis - tio as wel as pos whe the sam ope is per on the low - dim ima of the obj .
a nat cos fun is a sum of kul - lei div , one per obj , whi lea to a sim gra for adj the pos of the low - dim im - age .
unl oth dim red met , thi pro fra mak it eas to rep eac obj by a mix of wid sep low - dim ima .
thi all amb obj , lik the doc cou vec for the wor ban , to hav ver clo to the ima of bot riv and nan wit for the ima of out con to be loc clo to tho of cor con .
aut dim red is an imp too ope in mac lea - ing , bot as a pre ste for oth alg ( e . g .
to red cla inp siz ) and as a goa in its for vis , int , com , etc .
the are man way to emb obj , des by hig - dim vec or by pai dis - ila , int a low - dim spa .
mul sca met ( 123 ) pre dis bet ite , as mea eit by euc dis , som non squ of dis , or sho gra pat as wit iso ( 123 , 123 ) .
pri com - nen ana ( pca ) nds a lin pro of the ori dat whi cap as muc var as pos .
oth met att to pre loc geo ( e . g .
lle ( 123 ) ) or ass hig - dim poi wit a xed gri of poi in the low - dim spa ( e . g .
sel - org map ( 123 ) or the pro ext gtm ( 123 ) ) .
all of the met - ods , how , req eac hig - dim obj to be ass wit onl a sin loc in the low - dim spa .
thi mak it dif to unf man - to - one map in whi a sin amb obj rea bel in sev dis loc in the low - dim spa .
in thi pap we den a new not of emb bas on pro nei .
our alg , sto nei emb ( sne ) tri to pla the obj in a low - dim spa so as to opt pre nei ide , and can be nat ext to all mul dif low - d ima of eac obj .
123 the bas sne alg
sym ) , or the may be com usi the sca squ euc dis ( afn -
, may be giv as par of the pro den ( and nee not be
for eac obj , , and eac pot nei , , we sta by com the asy pro , , tha wou pic as its nei :
ity ) bet two hig - dim poi , ! " $#$ ! for the val of ) ( whi we set wit los of gen to be / pic poi as its nei is a fun of the low - dim ima 123 of all the
tha mak the ent of the dis ove nei equ to* ' + , . -
) so the ind pro 123
in the low - dim spa we als use gau nei but wit a xed var
is eit set by han or ( as in som of our exp ) fou by a bin sea
is the eff num of loc nei or per and is cho by han .
the aim of the emb is to mat the two dis as wel as pos .
thi is ach by min a cos fun whi is a sum of kul - lei div
obj and is giv by the exp :
spa is cho by han ( muc les tha the num of obj ) .
bet the ori ( 123 ) and ind ( 123 ) dis ove nei for eac obj : the dim of the not tha mak
is sma was som of the pro mas in the
dis so the is a cos for mod a big dis in the hig - dim spa wit a sma dis in the low - dim spa , tho it is les tha the cos of mod a sma dis wit a big one .
in thi res , sne is an imp ove met lik lle ( 123 ) or som ( 123 ) in whi wid sep dat - poi can be col as nea nei in the low - dim spa .
the int is tha whi sne emp loc dis , its cos fun cle enf bot kee the ima of nea obj nea and kee the ima of wid sep obj rel far apa .
the res is sim :
dif c is ted bec
via the nor ter in eq .
123 , but whi has the nic int of a sum of for pul " tow or pus it awa dep on whe giv the gra , the are man pos way to min
and we hav onl jus be - gun the sea for the bes met .
ste des in whi all of the poi are adj in par is ine and can get stu in poo loc opt .
add ran jit tha dec wit tim nds muc bet loc opt and is the met we use for the exa - ple in thi pap , eve tho it is sti qui slo .
we ini the emb by put all the low - dim ima in ran loc ver clo to the ori .
sev oth min met , inc ann the per , are dis in sec 123
is obs to be a nei mor or les oft tha des .
123 app of sne to ima and doc col as a gra ill of the abi of sne to mod hig - dim , nea - nei rel usi onl two dim , we ran the alg on a col of bit of han dig and on a set of wor - aut cou tak fro the sca pro of nip con pap .
bot of the dat are lik to hav int str in man few dim tha the raw dim : 123 for the han dig and 123 for the aut - wor cou .
fro eac of the ve cla 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123
the var of the gau aro eac poi
to beg , we use a set of dig bit fro the ups dat ( 123 ) wit exa in the ( - dim raw pix ima spa was set to ach a per of 123 in the dis ove hig - dim nei .
sne was ini by put all the 123 "
in ran loc ver clo to the ori and the was tra usi gra des wit ann noi .
alt sne was giv no inf abo cla lab , it qui cle sep the dig gro as sho in gur 123
fur , wit eac reg of the low - dim spa , sne has arr the dat so tha pro lik ori , ske and str - thi ten to var smo .
for the emb sho , the sne
cos fun in eq .
123 has a val of nat wit a uni dis acr low - nat .
we als app dim nei , the cos is
pri com ana ( pca ) ( 123 ) to the sam dat the pro ont the rst two pri com doe not sep cla nea as cle as sne bec pca is muc mor int in get the lar sep rig whi cau it to jum up som of the bou bet sim cla .
in thi exp , we use dig cla tha do not hav ver sim pai lik 123 and 123 or 123 and 123
whe the are mor cla and onl two ava dim , sne doe not as cle sep ver sim pai .
we hav als app sne to wor - doc and wor - aut mat cal fro the ocr tex of nip vol 123 - 123 pap ( 123 ) .
fig 123 sho a map loc nip au - tho int two dim .
eac of the 123 aut who pub mor tha one pap
and cor las nam are aut who pub six or mor pap in tha per .
wor cou , sum acr all nip pap .
co - aut pap gav fra cou eve to all aut .
all wor occ in six or mor doc wer inc , ex - cep for sto giv a voc siz of 123
( the bow too ( 123 ) was use for
in nip vol .
123 - 123 is sho by a dot at the pos 123 par of the pre - pro of the dat . ) the )
fou by sne lar red dot wer com as the nor of the dif bet log agg aut wer set to ach a loc per of ( nei .
sne see to hav gro aut by bro nip eld : gen
mod , sup vec mac , neu , rei lea and vls all hav dis loc reg .
123 a ful mix ver of sne the cle pro for of sne mak it eas to mod the cos fun so tha ins of a sin ima , eac hig - dim obj can hav sev dif ver of its low - dim ima .
the alt ver hav mix pro
is a mix of the dis ind
tha sum to .
ima - ver of obj has loc low - dim nei dis for by eac of its ima - ver acr all ima - ver of a pot nei :
and mix pro
in thi mul - ima mod , the der wit res to the ima loc 123 are str the der w . r . t the mix pro are mos eas exp
fig 123 : emb of nip aut int two dim .
eac of the 123 aut who pub mor tha one pap in nip vol .
123 - 123 is sho by a dot at the lo - fou by the sne alg .
lar red dot and cor las nam are aut who pub six or mor pap in tha per .
the ins in upp lef sho a blo of the cro box cen por of the spa .
dis be - twe aut wer com bas on squ euc dis bet vec of log agg aut wor cou .
co - aut pap gav fra cou eve to all aut .
all wor occ in six or mor doc wer inc , exc for sto giv a voc siz of 123
the nip tex dat is ava at
is giv by
in ter of , the pro tha ver of pic ver of : the eff on1 of cha the mix pro for ver of obj on the cos , c , is
and oth .
the eff of cha
opt on sof wei den by
as a pro - of - con , we rec imp a sim mix ver in whi eve obj is rep in the low - dim spa by exa two com tha
rat tha opt the mix pro dir , it is eas to per unc
by a for whi inc lin up to a thr sep .
bey thi thr the for rem con . 123 we ran two exp wit thi sim mix ver
the cla and tak eac pix at ran fro one of the two par .
aft min - of the non - hyb had sig dif loc for the two mix com .
mor , the mix com of eac hyb alw lay in the reg of the spa dev to the cla of its two par and
the two com are pul tog of sne .
we too a dat con pic of eac of the dig 123 , 123 , 123 and add
hyb dig - pic tha wer eac con by pic new exa of two of
are con to hav mix pro of of the hyb and onl
in den the loc nei , a ste siz of for eac pos upd of gra , and use a con jit of
mak it pos to map a cir ont a lin wit los any nea nei rel or int any new one .
poi nea one cut poi on the cir can map to a mix of two poi , one nea one end of the lin and one nea the oth end .
obv , the loc of the cut on the two - dim cir get dec by whi pai of mix com spl rst dur the sto opt .
for cer opt par - ete tha con the eas wit whi two mix com can be pul apa , onl a sin cut in the cir is mad .
for oth par set , how , the cir may fra int two or mor sma lin - seg , eac of whi is top cor but whi may not be lin to eac oth .
nev in the reg dev to the thi cla .
for thi exa we use a per of .
our ver sim mix ver of sne als
the exa wit hyb dig dem tha eve the mos pri mix ver of sne can dea wit amb hig - dim obj tha nee to be map to two wid sep reg of the low - dim spa .
mor wor nee to be don bef sne is efc eno to cop wit lar mat of doc - wor cou , but it is the onl dim red met we kno of tha pro to tre hom sen wit goi bac to the ori doc to dis eac occ of
123 use a thr of
at thr the for was
spa has a nat sca bec the var of the gau use to det
nat per uni len .
the low - d is x ed at 123 .
123 pra opt str our cur met of red the sne cos is to use ste des wit add jit tha is slo red .
thi pro qui goo emb , whi dem tha the sne cos fun is wor min , but it tak sev hou to nd a goo emb
the tim per ite cou be red con by ign pai of poi for whi is xed dur the lea , it is nat to spa it by rep all ent bel a cer thr wit zer and ren -
for jus dat so we cle nee a bet sea alg .
all fou of g are sma .
sin the mat
mal .
the pai for whi bot and are zer can be ign fro gra cal if bot 123 g are sma .
thi can in tur be det in log as k - d tre , bal - tre and ad - tre , sin the 123 dep onl on
put phy has att exa thi sam com whe per mul gra or ele sim usi , for exa , the fas mul met .
tim in the siz of the tra set by usi sop geo dat str suc
in the mix ver of sne the app to be an int way of avo loc opt tha doe not inv ann the jit .
con two com in the mix for an obj tha are far apa in the low - dim spa .
by rai the mix pro - tio of one and low the mix pro of the oth , we can mov pro mas fro one par of the spa to ano wit it eve app at int loc .
thi typ of pro wor see lik a goo way to avo loc opt tha ari bec a clu of low - dim poi mus mov thr a bad reg of the spa in ord to rea a bet one .
yet ano sea met , whi we hav use wit som suc on toy pro , is to pro ext dim in the low - dim spa but to pen non - zer val on the dim .
dur the sea , sne wil use the ext dim to go aro low - dim bar but as the pen on usi the dim is inc , the wil cea to be use , eff con the emb to the ori dim .
123 dis and con pre exp sho tha we can nd goo opt by rst ann the per - ( usi hig jit ) and onl red the jit aft the nal per has bee
sia cen on eac hig - dim poi is ver big so tha the dis acr nei is alm uni .
it is cle tha in the hig var lim , the con of to the sne cos fun is jus as imp for dis nei as for is ver lar , it can be sho tha sne is equ to min the mis bet squ dis in the two spa , pro all the squ dis
rea .
thi rai the que of wha sne is doi whe the var , ) clo one .
whe ) fro an obj are rst nor by sub off the ant mea ,
, of the gau -
is the num of obj .
thi mis is ver sim to str fun use in non ver of mds , and ena us to und the lar - var lim of sne as a par var of suc pro .
we are sti inv the rel to met mds and to pca .
sne can als be see as an int spe cas of lin rel emb ( lre ) in lre the dat con of tri ( e . g .
col has - mot vic ) and the tas is to pre the thi ter fro the oth two .
lre lea an n - dim vec for eac obj and an nxn - dim mat for eac rel .
to pre the thi ter in a tri , lre mul the vec rep the rst ter by the mat rep the rel and use the res vec as the mea of a gau .
its pre dis for the thi ter is the det by the rel den of all kno obj und thi gau .
sne is jus a deg ver of lre in whi the onl rel is nea and the mat rep thi rel is the ide .
in sum , we hav pre a new cri , sto nei emb , for map - pin hig - dim poi int a low - dim spa bas on sto sel of sim nei .
unl sel - org map , in whi the low - dim coo - din are xed to a gri and the hig - dim end are fre to mov , in sne the hig - dim coo are xed to the dat and the low - dim poi mov .
our met can als be app to arb pai dis bet obj if suc are ava ins of ( or in add to ) hig - dim obs .
the gra of the sne cos fun has an app pus - pul pro in whi the for act on
123 to bri it clo to poi it is und - sel and fur fro poi it is ove - sel
as its nei .
we hav sho res of app thi alg to ima and doc col for whi it sen pla sim obj nea in a low - dim spa whi kee dis obj wel sep .
mos imp , bec of its pro for , sne has the abi to be ex - ten to mix in whi amb hig - dim obj ( suc as the wor ban ) can hav sev wid - sep ima in the low - dim spa .
ack we tha the ano ref and sev vis to our pos for hel sug .
yan lec pro dig and nip tex dat .
thi res was fun by nse .
