abs mix mod are cur the dom - nan tec for mod the emi dis of hid mar mod for spe rec .
we sho tha bet pho rec on the tim dat can be ach by rep gau mix mod by dee neu net tha con man lay of fea and a ver lar num of par .
the net are rst pre - tra as a mul - lay gen mod of a win of spe fea vec wit mak use of any dis inf .
onc the gen pre - tra has des the fea , we per dis ne - tun usi bac to adj the fea sli to mak the bet at pre a pro dis ove the sta of mon hid mar mod .
usi a fea vec tha des seg of the tem evo of cri - ban spe den wit a sin cri ban .
sub - wor pos pro are est usi fee neu net for eac cri ban and the pro are mer to pro the nal est of the pos pro usi ano fee neu net .
in ( 123 ) , the spl tem con sys is int whi mod the tra sys by inc , in the mid lay of the sys , spl ove tim as wel as ove fre ban bef the nal mer neu net .
fee neu net off sev pot adv -
ind ter mod , dee bel net , neu
net , pho rec
a uto spe rec ( asr ) has evo sig -
can ove the pas few dec .
ear sys typ dis iso dig or yes / no , whe cur sys - tem can do qui wel at rec tel - qua , spo - tan spe .
a hug amo of pro has bee mad in imp wor rec rat , but the cor aco mod has rem fai sta , des man att to dev bet alt .
a typ asr sys use hid mar mod ( hmm ) to mod the seq str of spe sig , wit eac hmm sta usi a mix of gau to mod a spe rep of the sou wav .
the mos com spe rep is a set of mel fre cep coe ( mfc ) der fro a win of abo 123 ms of spe .
the win is typ adv by abo 123 ms per fra , and eac fra of coe is aug wit dif and dif of dif wit nea fra .
one res dir inv usi dee aco mod - els tha con man lay of fea .
the wor in ( 123 ) pro - pos a hie fra whe eac lay is des to cap a set of dis fea lan .
for eac fea , a spe aco rep is con in whi tha fea is eas to det .
in ( 123 ) , a pro gen mod is int whe the dyn str in the hid voc tra res spa is use to cha lon - spa con inu acr pho uni .
fee neu net hav bee use in man asr sys ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ins by ins fro ( 123 ) , the tra arc ( 123 ) mod a who sec of spe
cop ( c ) 123 iee .
per use of thi mat
how , per to use thi mat for any oth pur mus be obt fro the iee by sen a req to pub - per . org .
the aut are wit the uni of tor , tor , on , m12 123 , can .
( e - mai : asa . tor . edu gda . tor . edu hin -
tag ove gmm :
the est of the pos pro of hmm sta doe not req det ass abo the
the all an eas way of com div fea ,
inc bot dis and con fea .
the use far mor of the dat to con eac par bec the out on eac tra cas is sen to a lar fra of the wei .
the ben of eac wei
in a neu net bei con by a lar fra of tra cas tha eac par in a gmm has bee mas by oth dif in tra .
neu net hav tra bee tra pur dis , whe gmm are typ tra as gen mod ( eve if dis tra is per - for lat in the tra pro ) .
gen tra all the dat to imp man mor bit of con on the par ( see bel ) , thu par com for the fac tha eac com of a lar gmm mus be tra on a ver sma fra of the dat .
mfc , gmm , and hmm co - evo as a way of doi spe rec whe com wer too slo to exp mor com int app .
mfc thr awa a lot of the inf in the sou wav , but pre - ser mos of the inf req for dis .
by inc tem dif , mfc par ove the ver str con ind ass of hmm , nam tha suc fra are ind giv the hid sta of the hmm .
the tem dif als all dia cov gau to mod the str tem cov by red the par pai cov to ind coe .
as we sha see , a fou tra bas lte , den dis on a mel - sca , pot alt to mfc for mod tha can eas mod cor fea ( 123 ) .
gmm are eas to t to dat usi the em alg , esp whe the hav dia cov mat , and wit eno com the can mod any dis .
the are , how , sta ine at mod hig - dim dat tha has any kin of com str .
sub to iee tra .
on aud , spe , and lan pro
sup , for exa , tha n sig dif pat can occ in one sub - ban and m sig dif pat - ter can occ in ano sub - ban .
sup als tha whi pat occ in eac sub - ban is app ind .
a gmm req n m com to mod thi str bec eac com mus gen bot sub - ban ( eac pie of dat has onl a sin lat cau ) .
on the oth han , a mod tha exp the dat usi mul cau onl req n + m com , eac of whi is spe to a par sub - ban .
thi exp ine of gmm for mod fac str lea to asr sys tha hav a ver lar num of gau , mos of whi mus be est fro a ver sma fra of the dat .
in thi pap , we foc on a mor pow alt to gmm for rel hmm sta to fea vec .
in par , we rec the use of mul - lay , fee - for neu net tha tak a win of fea vec as inp and pro pos pro of hmm sta as out .
pre ins of the neu net app hav use the bac alg to tra the neu net dis .
the app coi nic wit a tre ini by ( 123 ) in whi gen mod is rep by dis tra .
dis tra is a ver sen thi to do whe usi com tha are too slo to lea a rea goo gen mod of the dat .
as gen mod get bet , how , the adv of dis tra get sma and is eve out by a maj dis : the amo of con tha the dat imp on the par of a dis mod is equ to the num of bit req to spe the cor lab of the tra cas , whe the amo of con for a gen mod is equ to the num of bit req to spe the inp vec of the tra cas .
so whe the inp vec con muc mor str tha the lab , a gen mod can lea man mor par bef it ove .
the ben of lea a gen mod is gre mag - nie whe the is a lar sup of unl spe in add to the tra dat tha has bee lab by a for hmm ali .
we do not mak use of unl dat in thi pap , but it cou onl imp our res rel to pur dis app .
nat , man of the hig - lev fea lea by the gen mod may be irr for mak the req dis , eve tho the are imp for exp the inp dat .
how , thi is a pri wor pay if com is che and som of the hig - lev fea are ver goo for dis bet the cla of int .
the mai nov of our wor is to sho tha we can ach con bet pho rec per by pre - tra a mul - lay neu net , one lay at a tim , as a gen mod of the win of spe coe .
thi pre - tra mak it eas to opt dee neu net tha hav man lay of hid uni and it als all
man mor par to be use bef ove occ .
the gen pre - tra cre man lay of fea det tha bec pro mor com .
a sub - que pha of dis ne - tun , usi the sta bac alg , the sli adj the fea in eve lay to mak the mor use for dis .
the big adv of thi new way of tra mul - lay neu net is tha the lim amo of inf in the lab is not use to des fea fro scr .
it is onl use to cha the fea eve so sli in ord to adj the cla bou .
the fea the are dis by bui a mul - lay gen mod of the muc ric inf in the win of spe coe , and thi doe not req lab dat .
our app mak two maj ass abo
nat of the rel bet the inp dat , whi in thi cas is a win of spe coe , and the lab , whi are hmm sta pro by a for ali usi a pre - exi asr mod .
fir , we ass tha the dis we wan to per is mor dir rel to the und cau of the dat tha to the ind ele of the dat its .
sec , we ass tha a goo fea - vec rep of the und cau can be rec fro the inp dat by mod its hig - ord sta str .
it is eas to dre up art tas in whi our two ass are ent wro , but a pur dis mac lea app , suc as a sup vec mac wit a pol ker , wou sti wor ver wel .
sup , for exa , tha the lab ass to a win of spe coe is sim the par of two par com of the bin dat .
our app wou alm cer fai bec thi inf is unl to be pre in the hig - lev fea and , eve if it is pre , it wil be in a muc mor com for tha the sim for it had in the dat .
our cla is tha , bec of the hig str way in whi spe is gen , thi art tas is exa wha asr is not lik , and mac lea met tha do not mak use of the hug dif bet the two tas hav no lon ter fut in asr .
lea a mul gen mod
the are two ver dif way to und our ap - pro to lea a mul - lay gen mod of a win of spe coe .
in the dir vie , we t a mul tha has inn man lay of lat var , but use wei sha amo the hig lay to kee the num of par und con .
in the und , ene - bas vie , we t a rel sim typ of lea mod tha onl has one lay of lat var , but the we tre the act of the lat var as dat and t the sam typ of mod aga to thi new dat .
thi can be rep as man tim as we lik to lea as man lay of lat var as we des .
the und vie
123 is imp for a dis tra sys to pro bet est of the pos pro rat of two cla tha the rat of the pro of gen the dat fro a mix of two , cla - spe , gen mod if the mod and the mix pro are cor .
the sim lea mod use in the und vie is cal a res bol mac ( rbm ) .
it is a bi - par gra in whi vis uni tha rep obs
moh , dah and hin : aco mod usi dee bel net
are con to hid uni tha lea to rep fea usi und wei con .
an rbm is res in the sen tha the are no vis - vis or hid - hid con .
in the sim typ of rbm , the bin rbm , bot the hid and vis uni are bin and sto .
to dea wit rea - val inp dat , we use a gau - ber rbm in whi the hid uni are bin but the inp uni are lin wit gau noi .
we wil exp the gau - ber rbm lat aft rst exp the sim bin
in a bin rbm , the wei on the con and the bia of the ind uni den a pro dis ove the joi sta of the vis and hid uni via an ene fun .
the ene of a joi con is :
e ( v , h| ) =
whe = ( w , b , a ) and wij rep the sym int ter bet vis uni i and hid uni j whi bi and aj are the bia ter .
v and h are the num of vis and hid uni .
the pro tha an rbm ass to a vis vec v
p ( v| ) = ph ee ( v , h ) pu ph ee ( u , h )
sin the are no hid - hid con , the con dis p ( h|v , ) is fac and is giv by :
p ( hj = 123 , ) = ( aj +
whe ( x ) = ( 123 + ex ) no vis - vis con , p ( v|h , ) is fac and is giv by :
sim , sin the are the con dis
p ( vi = 123 , ) = ( bi +
exa max lik lea is inf in a lar rbm bec it is exp exp to com the der of the log pro of the tra dat .
nev - the , rbm hav an efc app tra pro - dur cal con div ( 123 ) whi mak the sui as bui blo for lea dbn .
we rep upd eac wei , wij , usi the dif bet two mea , pai cor :
wij hvi hvi
the rst ter on the rhs of eq .
123 is the mea fre wit whi vis uni i and hid uni j are on tog whe the vis vec are sam fro the tra set and the sta of the hid uni are det by eq .
the sec ter is the mea fre wit whi i and j are bot on whe the vis vec are rec of the dat vec and the sta of the hid uni are det by app eq .
123 to the rec .
rec are pro by app eq .
123 to the hid sta tha wer
com fro the dat whe com the rst ter on the rhs of eq
the con div lea rul doe not fol the max lik gra .
und why it wor at all is muc eas usi the dir vie , so we def the exp to the nex sec .
aft lea the wei in an rbm mod , we use the sta of the hid uni , whe dri by rea dat , as the dat for tra ano mod of the sam kin .
thi pro can be rep to lea as man lay of fea as we des .
aga , und why thi gre app wor is muc eas usi the dir vie .
for gau - ber rbm the ene of a joi con -
e ( v , h| ) =
sin the are no vis - vis con , the con dis p ( v|h , ) is fac and is giv by :
p ( vi| , ) = n
whe n ( , v ) is a gau wit mea and var v .
apa fro the dif , the inf and lea rul for a gau - ber rbm are the sam as for a bin rbm , tho the lea rat nee to be sma .
the dir vie
in the und vie , it is eas to say wha we do , but har to jus it .
in the alt dir vie , the lea alg is mor com to exp , but muc eas to
a mul - lay sig bel net com of sto bin uni .
con a sig bel net ( 123 ) tha con of mul lay of bin sto uni as sho in gur 123
the hig hid lay rep bin fea and the bot - tom , vis , lay rep a bin dat vec ( we wil
123 kee the equ sim , we ass tha the gau noi lev of all the vis uni is xed at 123
we als nor the inp dat to hav a xed var of 123 for eac com ove the who tra set .
sub to iee tra .
on aud , spe , and lan pro
123 ) lea wit tie wei : con a sig bel net wit an inn num of lay and wit tie sym wei bet lay as sho in gur 123
in thi net , the pos in the rst hid lay is fac : the hid uni are ind giv the sta of the vis uni .
thi occ bec the cor cre by the pri com fro all of the lay abo exa can the ant - cor in the lik ter com fro the lay bel ( 123 ) .
mor , the fac pos can be com by sim mul the vis vec by the tra wei mat and the app the log fun to eac ele :
j =12 , w ) = ( b ( 123 )
not tha thi sim ope com the nor pro of the pri and the lik ter , not the lik ter , whi is con mor com .
sho how to han rea - val dat lat ) .
gen dat fro the mod is eas .
fir , bin sta are cho for the top lay of hid uni usi the bia to det the log odd of cho 123 or 123
giv the bin sta of the uni in lay k , bin sta are cho in par for all of the uni in lay k 123 by app the log sig 123 to the tot inp rec fro fun ( x ) = ( 123 + ex ) the lay abo plu the uni own bia :
=12 ( k ) , w ( k ) ) = ( b ( k12 )
whe h ( k ) is the vec of bin sta for lay k and h ( k ) is its jth ele .
w ( k ) is the mat of wei fro lay k to lay k 123 , w ( k ) the bia of uni j in lay k .
the vec of sta of the vis uni , v , is als cal h ( 123 ) .
is an ele of tha mat , and b ( k )
now con the pro of adj the wei on the top - dow con so tha the mod is mor lik to gen - era the bin tra dat on its vis uni .
per gra asc in the exp log pro of gen the tra dat is ver sim if we can get unb sam of the hid sta fro the pos dis giv an obs dat vec :
whe the ang bra den an exp ove the tra dat .
if we wan to ens tha eve wei upd inc the log pro of the dat , we nee to use a ver sma lea rat and we nee to ave ove man sam fro the pos .
in pra , it is muc mor efc to use a lar lea rat on sma min - bat of the dat .
unf , get unb sam fro the exp - tia lar pos app to be int for all but the sma mod . 123 con , for exa , the pos in the rst hid lay .
thi pos is the nor pro of a com , non - fac pri cre by the lay abo and a com non - fac lik ter cre by the obs sta of the vis uni .
whe gen dat fro the mod , the uni in the rst hid lay are , by den , con ind giv the sta of the uni in the lay abo .
whe inf the pos , how , the are not con ind giv the sta of the uni in the lay bel , eve wit a uni pri , due to the phe of exp awa ( 123 ) .
app sam fro the pos can be obt by usi a slo mar cha mon car met ( 123 ) or a fas but cru app ( 123 ) .
the is , how , one ver spe for of sig bel net in whi sam fro the pos dis in eve hid lay is jus as eas as gen dat fro the mod .
in fac , inf and gen are the sam pro , but run in opp
123 thi res , mix mod app to be far sup .
the exa pos ove the mix com is eas to com bec it onl has as man ter as the num of com .
thi com sim , how , com at a ter pri : the who dat vec mus be gen by a sin com .
as we sha see lat , it is pos to ach an equ sim pos whi all mul sim cau .
an inn sig bel net wit tie wei .
alt lay mus hav the sam num of uni .
the tie wei mak inf muc sim in thi net tha in a gen sig bel net .
onc the pos has bee sam for the rst hid lay , exa the sam pro can be use for the nex hid lay .
so inf is ext eas in thi spe kin of net .
lea is a lit mor dif bec eve cop of the tie wei mat get dif der .
how , we kno in adv tha the exp der wil be zer for ver hig lev lay .
thi is bec the bot - up inf pro is rea a mar cha tha eve con to its sta dis in the hig lay .
whe it is sam fro its sta dis , the cur wei are per for exp the sam , so , on ave , the is no der .
whe the wei and bia are sma , thi mar cha con rap and we can app
moh , dah and hin : aco mod usi dee bel net
gra asc in the log lik qui wel by jus add the der for the rst two lay ( 123 ) .
the tie wei mea tha the pro of inf h ( 123 ) fro h ( 123 ) is the sam as the pro of gen v fro h ( 123 ) .
con , h ( 123 ) can be vie as a noi but unb est of the pro for the vis uni pre by h ( 123 ) .
sim h ( 123 ) can be vie as a noi est of the pro for the uni in the rst hid lay pre by h ( 123 ) .
we can use the two fac and equ 123 to get an unb est of the sum of the der for the rst two lay of wei .
thi giv the fol lea rul whi is kno as con div ( 123 ) :
j ( vi h ( 123 ) j i hh ( 123 )
) + h ( 123 )
whe the ang bra den exp ove the tra dat ( or a rep min - bat ) .
as the wei and bia gro , it mak sen to add the der for mor lay ( 123 ) and for lea rea goo gen mod thi is ess ( 123 ) .
for the pur of cre sen fea det , how , eve a rat poo tun gen mod is goo eno , and the lea rul in equ 123 is suf eve whe the wei get qui lar .
the app max lik der pro by thi lea rul bec hig bia , but the are che to com and the als hav ver low var ( 123 ) whi is imp for all a hig lea rat whe the der are est fro sma min - bat of dat .
the iss are dis fur in
123 ) lea dif wei in eac lay : now tha we hav efc inf and lea pro for an inn sig bel net wit tie wei , the nex ste is to mak the gen mod mor pow by all dif wei in dif lay .
fir , we lea wit all of the wei mat tie tog .
the we unt the bot wei mat fro the oth mat and fre the val of its wei .
thi fro mat is now cal w ( 123 ) .
the , kee all the rem mat tie tog , we con to lea the hig mat , tre the inf sta vec h ( 123 ) in jus the sam way as we pre tre v .
thi inv rst inf h ( 123 ) fro v by usi ( w ( 123 ) ) t and the inf h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) , and h ( 123 ) in a sim bot - up man usi w or w t .
the inf for the hig hid lay pro unb sam giv h ( 123 ) , but the sim inf met no lon giv an exa unb sam for h ( 123 ) bec the hig wei mat are no lon equ to w ( 123 ) so the no lon cre a pri tha exa can the cor in the lik ter .
how , the pos for h ( 123 ) is sti app fac and it can be pro tha if we con to inf h ( 123 ) as if the hig mat had not cha , the lea imp a var low bou on the log pro of the tra dat ( 123 ) 123
123 pro ass tha eac lay of wei is lea by fol the max lik der , rat tha usi the con div
we can rep the pro of fre and unt the low cop of the cur tie wei mat as man tim as we lik , so we can lea as man lay of fea as we des .
whe we hav lea k lay of fea , we are lef wit a dir gen mod cal a dee bel net ( dbn ) tha has k dif wei mat bet the low lay and an inn num of hig lay tha all use the k th wei mat or its tra .
we the sim thr awa all lay abo the k th and add a nal sof lay of lab uni rep hmm sta .
we als jet the pro int tha was use to jus the gen lea , and we tre the who sys as a fee , det neu net .
thi net is the dis ne - tun by usi bac to max the log pro of the cor hmm sta
for the sof nal lay , the pro of lab l giv the rea - val act of the nal lay of fea ( whi we cal h ( k ) eve tho the are no lon bin sam val ) is den to be
exp ( bl + pi h ( k ) pm exp ( bm + pi h ( k )
whe bl is the bia of the lab and wil is the wei fro hid uni i in lay k to lab l .
the dis tra mus lea the wei fro the las lay of fea to the lab uni , but it doe not nee to cre any new fea det .
it sim ne - tun exi fea det tha wer dis by the uns pre - tra .
to mod rea val in the vis lay , we sim rep the bin uni by lin uni wit gau noi tha has a var of 123
thi doe not cha p ( h ( 123 ) |v ) and the dis for vis uni i giv h ( 123 ) is a gau wit uni var and mea i giv by :
i = b ( 123 )
thi typ of gen pre - tra fol by dis - nat ne - tun has bee use suc for han - wri cha rec ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , dim red ( 123 ) , 123 - d obj rec ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ext roa map fro clu aer ima ( 123 ) , inf ret ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and mac tra ( 123 ) .
as we sha see , it is als ver goo for pho rec .
usi dee bel net for pho rec in ord to app dbn wit xed inp and out dim - sio to pho rec , we use a con win of n suc fra of spe coe to set the sta of the vis uni of the low lay of the dbn .
onc it has bee pre - tra as a gen mod , the res fee neu net is dis tra to out a pro dis ove the pos lab of the cen fra .
to gen pho seq , the seq of pre
123 a con abu of the cor ter , we som use dbn to ref to a fee neu net tha was ini usi a gen tra dee bel net , eve tho the fee neu net is cle ver dif fro a bel net .
sub to iee tra .
on aud , spe , and lan pro
pro dis ove the pos lab for eac fra is fed int a sta vit dec .
str spe , sin the hmm imp a pri ove sta , we sho div out the pri fro the pos dis ove hmm sta pro by the dbn , alt for our par tas it mad no dif .
exp set
tim cor
pho rec exp wer per on the tim cor . 123 we use the 123 spe tra set and re - mov all sa rec ( i . e . , ide sen for all spe in the dat ) sin the cou bia the res .
a sep dev set of 123 spe was use for tun all of the met par , suc as the num of lay and the siz of eac lay .
res are rep usi the 123 - spe cor tes set , whi exc the dev set .
the spe was ana usi a 123 - ms ham win wit a 123 - ms xed fra rat .
in mos of the exp , we rep the spe usi 123 - ord mel fre cep coe ( mfc ) and ene , alo wit the rst and sec tem der .
for som exp , we use a fou - tra - bas lte - ban wit 123 coe dis on a mel - sca ( and ene ) tog wit the rst and sec tem der .
the dat wer nor so tha , ave ove the tra cas , eac coe or rst der or sec der had zer mea and uni var .
we use 123 tar cla lab ( i . e . , 123 sta for eac one of the 123 pho ) .
aft dec , the 123 pho cla wer map to a set of 123 cla as in ( 123 ) for sco .
all of our exp use a big lan mod ove pho , est fro the
com set
tra dbn of the siz use in thi pap is qui com - put exp .
tra was acc by exp gra pro , in par gpu in a nvi tes s12 sys , usi the cud lib ( 123 ) .
a sin pas ove the ent tra set ( an epo ) for a mod wit 123 hid lay and 123 uni per lay too abo 123 min dur pre - tra of the top lay and abo 123 min dur ne - tun the who net wit bac .
a sin gpu lea at 123 tim fas tha a sin 123 ghz
for all exp , we xed the par for the vit dec .
spe , we use a zer wor ins pro - ity and a lan mod sca fac of 123 .
all dbn wer pre - tra wit a xed rec usi sto gra dec wit a min - bat siz of 123 tra cas .
for gau - bin rbm , we ran 123 epo wit a xed lea rat of 123 whi for bin - bin rbm we use 123 epo wit a lea rat of 123 .
the the use to jus the pre - tra alg as - sum tha whe the sta of the vis uni are rec fro the inf bin act in the rst hid lay , the are rec sto .
to red noi in the lea , we act rec the det and use the rea val ( see ( 123 ) for mor det ) .
for ne - tun , we use sto gra des wit the sam min - bat siz as in pre - tra .
the lea rat sta at 123 .
at the end of eac epo , if the sub err on the dev set inc , the wei wer ret to the val at the beg of the epo and the lea rat was hal .
thi con unt the lea rat fel bel
dur bot pre - tra and ne - tun , a sma wei - cos of 123 was use and the lea was acc by usi a mom of 123 ( exc for the rst epo of ne - tun whi did not use mom ) .
( 123 ) giv a det exp of wei - cos and mom and sen way to set the .
fig 123 and gur 123 sho the eff of var the siz of eac hid lay and the num of hid lay .
for sim we use the sam siz for eve hid lay in a net .
for the com , the num of inp fra was xed at 123
num of lay
pho err rat on the dev set as a fun of the num of lay and siz of eac lay , usi 123 inp fra .
the mai tre vis in gur 123 and 123 is tha add mor hid lay giv bet per , tho the gai dim as the num of lay inc .
usi mor hid uni per lay als imp per whe the num of hid lay is les tha 123 , but wit mor hid lay the num of uni has lit eff pro it is at lea 123
the adv of usi a dee arc is cle if we con the bes way to use a tot of 123 hid uni : it is bet to use two lay of 123 or fou lay of 123 tha one lay of 123
to ben fro hav man hid lay , it is nec to do gen pre - tra .
wit a sin hid lay of 123 uni , gen pre - tra giv a pho err rat of 123 and exa the sam ne - tun alg sta fro
moh , dah and hin : aco mod usi dee bel net
num of lay
num of lay
pho err rat on the cor tes set as a fun of the num of lay and siz of eac lay , usi 123 inp fra .
pho err rat on the cor tes set as a fun of the num of hid lay usi ran ini and pre net .
sma ran wei giv 123 .
so gen pre - tra doe not hel .
add a sec hid lay cau a lar pro inc in the num of tra par tha add a thi hid lay bec the inp and out lay are muc sma tha the hid lay and bec adj hid lay are ful con .
thi lar inc in cap mak the mod far mor exi , but it als mak it ove far mor eas .
fig 123 and gur 123 sho tha for net tha are not pre - tra ( but sti use ear sto ) , the two eff app can out , whe for pre - tra net the is les ove so ext lay hel .
alt the adv of pre - tra is not as lar as for som oth tas ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , it is sti req to gai an adv fro usi ext hid lay .
the dev set is ach usi 123 , 123 , or 123 fra and thi is tru wha the num of hid lay .
muc sma ( 123 fra ) and muc big ( 123 fra ) win giv sig wor per .
the ran fro 123 to 123 cov the ave siz of pho or syl .
sma inp win mis imp dis inf in the con , whi net wit lar win are pro get dis by the alm fro the cen of the win .
the tra ( 123 ) arc suc use 123 sec lon win , but it ded sep net to mod dif par of the spe whi sim the lea tas .
lar win wou pro wor bet usi tri tar whi pro the net wit mor inf abo the con and mak the per fra mor rel .
num of lay
num of lay
pho err rat on the dev set as a fun of the num of hid lay usi ran ini and pre net .
pho err rat on the dev set as a fun of the num of lay , usi 123 hid uni per lay .
fix the num of hid uni per lay to 123 and var the num of fra in the inp win ( gur 123 and 123 and als 123 and 123 ) sho tha the bes per on
sin all but the out lay wei are pre - tra , it cou be hel to int a bot at the las lay
sub to iee tra .
on aud , spe , and lan pro
num of lay
num of lay
pho err rat on the cor tes set as a fun of the num of lay , usi 123 hid uni per lay .
con win of lte ban coe as inp fea to the dbn .
pho err rat as a fun of the num of lay , usi a
of the dbn to com ove by red the num of wei tha are not pre - tra .
a bot lay fol by a sof is exa equ to usi a dis out cod for eac cla and the mak the cla pro pro to the exp squ dif bet the cod for a cla and the act pat in the bot lay ( 123 ) .
fig 123 sho tha hav a bot lay doe not act imp per for a typ net wit 123 hid lay of 123 uni and an inp win of 123 fra of
the eff of the siz of the bot on the pho err rat for a typ net wit 123 inp fra and 123 hid lay of 123 uni per lay ( exc for the las hid lay ) .
in all of the pre exp mfc wer use as the inp rep .
mfc att to red the dim of the inp by eli var tha are irr for rec and spo - fee the rec wit a mod - siz inp rep tha to mak rec eas .
wit a mor pow lea pro , bet rec per can be ach
by usi a les pre - pro inp rep con of a lar num of lte - ban coe aug wit tem dif and dif of dif .
fig 123 sho tha a dbn is cap of mak goo use of the mor det inf ava in thi lar inp rep .
for the dbn sys tha per bes on the dev set , the pho err rat on the tim cor tes set was 123 .
rep res on tim cor tes set
sto seg mod ( 123 )
con ran fie ( 123 )
lar - mar gmm ( 123 )
aug con ran fie ( 123 )
rec neu net ( 123 )
bay tri hmm ( 123 )
mon htm ( 123 )
het cla ( 123 )
tri hmm dis tra w / bmm ( 123 ) mon dee bel net ( dbn ) ( thi wor )
tab i com the bes per dbn mod wit
pre rep res on the tim cor tes set 123
con and fut wor
so far as we kno , the wor rep in thi pap was the rst app to aco mod of neu net in whi mul lay of fea are gen pre - tra .
sin the , our app has bee ext to exp mod the cov str of the inp fea ( 123 ) .
it has bee als use to joi tra the aco and lan mod usi the ful utt rat tha a loc win of fra
123 ( 123 ) a per of 123 is rep on the com tes set of tim .
the spe uni use are not the sam as the sta tim den and the met wou ver pro giv a wor res usi the sta
moh , dah and hin : aco mod usi dee bel net
it has bee als app to a lar voc tas ( 123 ) whe the com gmm app use a ver lar num of com .
in thi lat tas it giv a ver lar adv rel to the gmm .
we are cur exp alt inp rep tha all dee neu net to see mor of the rel inf in the sou - wav , suc as ver pre coi - den of ons tim in dif fre ban .
we are als exp way of usi rec neu net to gre inc the amo of det inf abo the pas tha can be car for to hel in the int of the
we tha jim gla , joh bri , li den and ger pen for hel dis and two ano rev for imp the pap .
the res was fun by a gif fro mic res and by gra fro the nat sci and eng res cou of can and the can ins for adv res .
