thi pap des two new met for mod the man of dig ima
of han dig .
the mod all a pri inf abo the str of
the man to be com wit emp dat .
acc mod of the man -
ifo all dig to be dis usi the rel pro den und
the alt mod .
one of the met is gro in pri com
ana , the oth in fac ana .
bot met are bas on loc lin ,
low - dim app to the und dat man .
lin wit oth
met tha mod the man are dis .
a sta dis app to dig rec is to tra a cla ( cid : 123 ) er to
out one of the ten cla bas on the inp ima .
the cla ( cid : 123 ) er cou , for
ins , be a mul fee neu net ( ) .
how , it is als pos
to dis by ( cid : 123 ) tti a sep pro den mod to eac cla and the
pic the cla of the mod tha ass the hig den to a tes ima
rel den app typ req mor com dur rec , and
it can dev a lot of par to mod asp of the ima tha are irr
for dis , but it has sev adv :
( cid : 123 ) dur tra , eac mod nee onl con tra exa of its own
cla , sav an ord of mag in com .
if the mod are cor ,
thi sav is ach wit no red in dis per .
( cid : 123 ) aft tra , it is pos to add a new cla wit ret the pre
( cid : 123 ) it is pos to ( cid : 123 ) t far mor par bef ove ( cid : 123 ) tti occ bec the
inp vec con muc mor inf tha the cla lab .
ass
the sam num of exa in eac cla , a cla lab onl con log
bit so eac exa onl pro : bit of con on the fun tha
map inp to cla lab .
how , it tak man mor bit to spe the
inp ima , so eac exa pro far mor con on the par
one way to see why , is to ima a tab loo - up sch in whi eac inp vec is ran
map to a di ( cid : 123 ) ere wor of mem .
to ( cid : 123 ) t a tra set per , we nee as man wor of
mem as tra exa and eac wor onl nee eno bit to spe the cor lab .
of a den mod .
for the ( cid : 123 ) rea - val ima we use , ; tra
exa are su ( cid : 123 ) cie to ( cid : 123 ) t abo ; par .
( cid : 123 ) asp of the ima tha are irr for dis bet cla may
nev be ver rel for det occ bad ima tha do not fal
int any of the giv cla .
rel den met hav a nat rej
cri whe all the den are low .
( cid : 123 ) the den mod we des can be ( cid : 123 ) tte by met lik sin val de -
com ( svd ) and exp - max ( em ) tha are con
mor e ( cid : 123 ) cie tha gra des .
we are not cla tha the rel den app is nec bet tha the
dis app , jus tha it is an alt wor con .
cer dis met can be see in ter of rel den .
for in -
sta , ker den est ( ) , ( ) is a pop non - par mod tec -
for thi , the pro den for a par dig is the wei sum of
a col of ker fun .
the fun all hav the sam sha , but eac is
cen on one of the pat in tha cla in the tra set .
eac ker fun
typ int to , and the wei in the sum are usu =m , whe m is the
num of the pat in the tra set , so the ove ker den est is
cor nor .
hav bui ten suc mod , one for eac dig cla , the cla
to whi a new ima bel is inf by eva the den und eac of the
mod at the loc of the new ima , and rep the one tha is the hig
the ker fun are rad sym , mon dec , and hav un -
bou ext ( e . g a gau ) , the rel den est bec ide
to nea nei cla ( cid : 123 ) cat as the wid par of the ker goe to zer .
thi is bec the mod tha con the ker fun clo to the dat wil ,
in the lim , hav in ( cid : 123 ) nit hig den tha any oth mod , eve if oth mod
hav man ker fun tha are alm as clo .
ker den est are con mod in the cas tha the is amp dat ,
amp com tim for inf ( it is e ( cid : 123 ) ect a mem - bas tec ) ,
and in whi the is lit a pri inf abo the nat of the dat
lat two are not tru for ima of han dig .
we sou to bui bet
mod for suc ima on the bas of suc inf .
ela def tem -
pla ( ) , ( ) are one exa , and hav bee sho to mod non - nor ima
of cha wel ( ) .
unf , the are als com too exp
for nor use .
we the tur to gau ble lin mod , whi are
com muc che but are als app for suc ima .
sim et al ( ) poi out the loc low - dim lin str und
the ima .
tak the - dim spa of all ( nor ) ( cid : 123 ) ima and
con the sub of ima of any par dig , say the dig .
sin sma
cha to the ima of a pre its ide , thi sub wil hav som pro
of a sur ( it wil mos be con and di ( cid : 123 ) ere .
in par , a ( cid : 123 ) ne
tra ( tra , rot , sca , and she ) as wel as man -
lat to the thi of the str of a dig pre its ide .
con
the e ( cid : 123 ) ect on an ima of sma ( ie sub - pix ) tra lik the sug tha
the sur is loc at lea dim and pro som mor .
di ( cid : 123 ) ere
sty of wil lik gen sep con pat .
sim et al ( ) use a
nea nei met ( whi , as poi out , is equ to a lim cas of
a rel den met ) in the spa of the dim pla , whe the dis -
tan bet two poi in the spa is the clo dis bet the und
pla in ima spa .
usi thi as the dis rat tha the sim euc
dis bet two ima sub imp rec per .
unf , sim tec is fou on a nea nei met , and
the rec is aga com exp .
we can bui muc che
mod by com inf fro man exa abo the loc str of
the man in ima spa rep a dig .
com inf in thi way
sho hav the add adv of ave out som of the noi in the est
of its loc str tha ari fro the gra ope tha sim use to
ext the dim sub .
we are als not lim to onl the a pri
dim lis abo , but lea the loc str fro the tra exa ,
whi may con oth inv .
alt the man see to be loc
lin and low dim , the is no rea for the man to be glo lin .
di ( cid : 123 ) ere sty of dig , and eve a ( cid : 123 ) ne tra tha are not con ( cid : 123 ) ned to a
sub - pix reg , wil lea to di ( cid : 123 ) ere loc lin pat .
we wer the for
to mix tog num of lin mod for ima of eac dig , ie to use a ble
lin app to the sur ( ( cid : 123 ) gur ) ( ) , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) .
the mix
is ( cid : 123 ) t usi eit an exp - max ( em ) bas alg ( ) or the k -
mea alg , whi is act a lim cas of em .
the exp ( e ) pha
inv ass to the lin mod res for the tra exa the
max ( m ) pha inv re - est the par of the lin mod
in the lig of thi ass .
thi dis is not a met sin it doe not sat the tri ine .
sig ( cid : 123 ) can per imp can be ach by usi var spe mec ,
for exa ( )
fig : ill of how a hig non - lin one - dim sur ( lef pan )
is cap by loc lin mod ( rig pan )
a con fra to des our mod com fro the ver of neu
net cal aut .
an aut is a fee neu net wit a
sin hid lay tha att to rec its inp act at its out .
hin & zem ( ) and zem ( ) sho how to und the rel bet
sta mod and aut .
the cod for an exa is giv by the
com of the act of the hid uni and the out err , whi is the
inf nec to rec the out giv the hid uni act
and the wei bet the hid uni and the out uni .
the cos of thi cod
is cou in bit , and is bas on emp pri dis for the act
of the hid uni and the rec err .
the mai lin bet mod
and aut is tha thi cos fun can be con as the neg log
pro of the dat und a par gen mod ( so max lik
mod ( cid : 123 ) tti and min cos are equ .
we giv cos fun bel whi
inc or exc var ele of the cod cos .
two wel est lin mod are pri com ana ( pca ) and fac -
tor ana ( fa ) .
per pca req not mor tha sin val dec -
pos of the cov mat of the exa .
per fa is com
mor cha .
how , fa o ( cid : 123 ) ers a sou sta mod of exa , and
one mig exp it to be mor pro ( cid : 123 ) cie .
sec ii des pri com
ana sec iii des fac ana sec iv sho how to inc
som of the tan inf tha sim et al ( ) use to suc goo e ( cid : 123 ) ect and
sec v sho how the mod per on a lar - sca dig rec tas .
ii mix of pri com ana
the r pri com of n exa xi = fx
ng of n - dim dat ; : : : x
( ass , wit los of gen , to hav mea ) are the r ort dir
in n - spa whi cap the gre var in the exa .
put ano way , if
the exa are pro ont r - dim sub and the res var of
the pro exa is mea , the the pri com de ( cid : 123 ) ne a sub
suc tha thi cap var is the hig .
alt , ass tha the
exa com fro a mul gau dis , the inf con
by the mag of the pro ont the r dir is the gre
pro , tog wit the com sim of per pca ( inv
no mor tha ( cid : 123 ) ndi the top r eig of the cov mat of the exa )
mak it an obv can for the lin mod in the mix .
the r pri
com de ( cid : 123 ) ne the loc sur ass for the man .
in the con of an
aut , the pro of the inp alo the r dir are the act of
the hid uni hi = fh
rg for inp pat i .
thi can be wri as :
hi = rxi
as dis abo , the act of the hid uni are par of the cod for an
exa .
the act of the out uni are gen by a lin com of
the hid uni :
yi = ghi
the oth par of the cod is the di ( cid : 123 ) ere bet the ima its and the out
act .
the res squ rec err ( e
i = kxi
) is a mea
of how wel the mod ( cid : 123 ) ts the ima ( the sma it is , the bet the ima was
as men abo , eit an em or a k - mea pro is use to ass the
n exa amo m di ( cid : 123 ) ere pca mod ( we cal the sub - mod ) for eac
dur the e ste , res for eac pat is ass amo the
sub - mod dur the m - ste pca is per , alt the par of a sub -
mod app to min the rec cos of the dat for whi it is
res .
in the sof , em ver , the res of sub - mod a for exa
i is cal as q
) whe e
b is the squ rec
err and ( cid : 123 )
act lik a tem par .
in the har , k - mea ver ( whi
can be vie as the lim cas as ( cid : 123 )
! ) , exa i is all to the sub - mod
a for whi e
a is sma .
not tha the m ste is mor com and pow
tha jus tak the mea of tho exa for whi res is tak .
for , the k - mea ver of the alg is :
cho ini ass amo the sub - mod for eac exa in the
tra set ( typ at ran , or usi sam fro the ini dat ) ;
str spe the is a thi com , the mod - cos , whi enc the cos of spe
the wei in eac mod ( ) .
we ass tha thi cos is the sam for all mod .
per pca sep for eac sub - mod
rea pat to the sub - mod tha rec the the bes
sto if no pat hav cha sub - mod , oth ret to ste .
for the sof ver , in ste , the exa are wei for the pca by the re -
spo , and con is ass by exa the cha in the ove
log - lik ( whi is equ to neg cod - cos usi sha opt cod -
ing ) of the dat at eac ite .
thi log - lik is bas on a mod for the
ima und whi the ( inc nor ) log pro of ima i is ( ) :
a log q
min thi qua can be con as a cos fun for lea the ass -
men of res and the pri com .
the val of ( cid : 123 )
alt , eit pro gen a set of loc lin mod for eac dig .
giv a tes pat we eva the rec err aga all the mod for
all the dig .
we use a har met for cla ( cid : 123 ) cat ( det the ide of
the pat onl by the mod whi rec it bes .
the abs qua of the
bes rec and the rel qua of sli sub - opt rec
are ava to rej amb cas .
som sim met hav bee use for mod ima of lip for lip rea
( ) , car - lik dra ( ) , dig and cha rec ( ) , ( ) and dat
iii mix of fac ana
unf , as not abo , pca doe not pro a cor sta mod for
the ima bec it is not pro nor .
com of the ima tha
lie in the dir of the pri com gen no rec err ,
and the can be add at wil wit cha the cos .
pog & sun ( )
sug usi as a com of the cos a qua the cal the nor
mah dis in the sub of the pri com .
thi is :
whe c is a con , h
as is the act of hid uni s for exa i of sub -
mod a and ( cid : 123 ) as is the eig ass wit tha com .
thi amo to
emp a zer mea hyp - ell gau pri ali in the dir of the
pri com .
thi pri is use to cod the act of the hid uni
in the aut .
cho the rel wei in the ove cos fun for
the squ rec err e
a and the cod cos is som arb .
fac ana ( fa ) is a di ( cid : 123 ) ere way of ana the cov mat of the
inp ( see ( ) , for an exc int ) whi sta fro a pro pro
mod , and cor ble the rec cos and a ter pla a sim rol
to thi nor mah dis .
fa eme for the sam lin aut
net if the cos of cod the hid uni is tak int acc , usi as a pri
a spe ( cid : 123 ) ed mul gau ( oft jus the ide mat and tra
kno as the pri for the fac loa ) , and if the rec err are cod
acc to an ell mul gau who axe are ali wit the inp
dim .
in ter of the not int abo , the sta fac ana
mod is wri as ( ) :
yi = ghi + ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) n ( ; ( cid : 123 ) ) ; ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) n ( ; ( cid : 123 ) )
the hid - out wei , g , are the fac loa and the act of the hid
uni , hi , are the fac ( the pri ove whi is gau ) .
a key ass of the
fa mod is tha the obs var are con ind of eac oth ,
giv the fac .
thi is equ to not tha the ind com of the
j , are als ind of eac oth , or tha ( cid : 123 ) is a dia mat wit
; : : : ; ( cid : 123 )
ng alo the dia .
it is com to tak ( cid : 123 ) to be the ide
mat .
mod ( ) imp tha the cov of the obs var is giv by :
c ( g; ( cid : 123 ) ) = gg
t + ( cid : 123 )
und the mod , the sam cov mat ( s ) fol a wis dis
( ) abo c and eve ( ) int the fun :
f ( s; c ( g; ( cid : 123 ) ) ) = lnj j + tra ( sc
( cid : 123 ) ) ( cid : 123 ) lnj ( cid : 123 ) n
whi , up to som con fac , is the lik .
max lik fa ( cid : 123 ) ts
the par of the mod g and ( cid : 123 ) by max equ ( ) .
unf ,
the is no tec as com che as sin val dec for
det the fac fro a col of ima .
con the exa in ( cid : 123 ) gur in whi inp a and b are per cor
but hav low var and inp c is ind but has muc hig var .
con wha hap if we all onl one hid uni .
the pri com
wil ali per wit c and be ort to a and b .
the fac , how , wil
ali per wit a and b and wil be ort to c .
the di ( cid : 123 ) ere bet the
two met is eas to und in cod ter .
pca is equ to min
the des len of the dat if we mak the fol sim ass :
ign the cos of com the mod ( i . e .
the dir of the pri
ign the cos of com the pro of eac dat poi ont the
pri com ( i . e .
the cos of con the act of the hid
use a gau dis wit the sam var on eac dim as an
agr pri for com the res err whe eac dim of the
dat poi is rec fro the pro ont the pri com .
ass mak it muc che to com inp c by ( cid : 123 ) rst cop it
to the pri com .
but thi is onl bec the cos of com
thi com is ign .
fac ana has a som mor rea cod
int .
it sti ign the cos of com the fac loa , but it
tak int acc the cos of com the pro ont eac fac
a dat poi , the is a mul pos pro dis acr the fac
val and thi dis is typ not sph .
the cos of com the
fac val is the kul - lei div bet the pos dis
and the sph pri dis for the fac val .
not is gai by hav
a fac tha is jus a cop of c bec com thi fac val is jus as
exp as com the ful val of c as a res err .
ass is ano imp di ( cid : 123 ) ere bet the two met .
fac
ana all di ( cid : 123 ) ere var to be use for cod the res err on di ( cid : 123 ) ere
inp dim .
if the res are cod usi a ( cid : 123 ) xed var pri the ave
inf req to con a res is lin in its var .
if , how , the
var of the pri is ada to mat the var of the res the inf
is pro to the log of the var .
thi dra red the cos of
hig var res as com wit low var one and can mak it bet
to dec two low var res by a lit rat tha dec one hig
var res by a lot .
fig ill how the use of di ( cid : 123 ) ere noi mod for di ( cid : 123 ) ere inp var
can all fac ana to ext a mor sen mod tha pca .
the tas in
( cid : 123 ) gur is to inf a mea len fro noi mea .
cle thi is a
sit whe we wis to ext cor amo the inp .
in the exa ,
thr dim dat wer gen acc to the rul sho , and the res of
per pca and fa are ill by the pro of the gen ( hid -
out ) wei vec ( sol lin ) ont the x ( cid : 123 ) y pla .
( we hav sho the -
dim pro , for cla .
bec of the sym in the way the dat
was gen , the x ( cid : 123 ) z pro is sim , whi the y ( cid : 123 ) z pro doe not
ill the poi bei mad her . ) in the low noi cas , pca and fa ext
sim mod , the gen wei sho tha equ att is pai to bot
the x and y dim .
how , in the hig noi cas , pca mus hav a lar
wei to gen the lar var alo the x dim .
on the oth han , fa
cor has rec tha all out dim hav ide dep on
the hid var , s , and so set the gen wei acc .
of cou ,
the ( cid : 123 ) x com in ( cid : 123 ) ( equ ( ) ) is in ( cid : 123 ) ate to acc for the lar var
in thi inp .
thi exa ill how fa can mod cov amo inp
dim sep fro var whe pca can .
fig : ( a ) sho thr inp and a sin hid uni .
inp a and b hav low
var but are per cor .
inp c has hig var but is ind of
a and b .
the hid uni beh qui di ( cid : 123 ) ere in pri com ana
and fac ana .
( b ) sca of the dat wit the vec of inc wei
of the hid uni for pca ( sol lin ) and fa ( dot lin ) .
( cid : 123 ) x = :
( cid : 123 ) x = :
fig : noi obs of a sig s , x = s + nx , y = s + ny , z = s + nz
whe s , nx , ny and nz are nor ran var wit zer mea .
the sta
dev of s and ny nz are hel con at : and : res on all thr
pan , whi tha of nx is as sho .
the pro of tra exa ont
the x ( cid : 123 ) y pla are sho by the dot , whi the sol lin are the pro of
hid - out wei vec ont thi pla .
see tex for fur exp .
for mod dig , fa sho be imm to the fac tha di ( cid : 123 ) ere dim mig
hav di ( cid : 123 ) ere int amo of noi and loo for sha str in dig
sec di ( cid : 123 ) ere is tha pca is rot sym whe fa is not .
for fa ,
the par dim use to des the ima are spe in the sen tha the
noi cor the is tak to be mut ind .
thi res see
rea for ima , sin the axe de ( cid : 123 ) ned by the inp pix are ind pri .
fol ana by nea and day ( ) on the rel bet fac ana -
ysi , pca , aut and the hel mac ( ) , ( ) , we act use an
aut to imp fac ana .
the lin of the mod imp tha
the pos dis of the fac hi giv the inp xi is gau :
( cid : 123 ) n ( rxi
as rub & tha ( ) sho in the dis of the use of em for fa , the cor
val of r and ( cid : 123 ) are det by g and ( cid : 123 ) as :
r = ( g
g + i ) ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) = i + g
fol the hel mac , we cal r and ( cid : 123 ) par of the rec
mod , sin the are res for pro the bot - up rec ( cid : 123 ) eld of the
hid uni .
stu the for of the rec par can giv ins int
the ele of the ima tha the fac cod .
pre exp wit thi mod sug tha it was pro to ove ( cid : 123 ) tti
in a ver par man .
tak a pix on the out of the ( cid : 123 ) gri .
it can
eas occ tha for som dig the act of thi pix is alw in the tra set
for som sub - mod .
the fac ana mod mig cor dec tha thi pix
sha not in com wit the oth pix and fur tha its int
noi lev is .
if , in the tes
set , by som qui of the noi , the is act in
thi pix , the the lik of the ima und thi sub - mod wil be .
thi is
unr , sin the pix is onl con noi .
one way to reg lea
is to imp a min all int var ( thi is a con way of
reg mix of gau mod ) ; ano is to add dia ter to the
cov mat of the exa so it is as if the all su ( cid : 123 ) er fro ext ind
the reg met wer rou equ e ( cid : 123 ) cac , and we ado
the lat for the emp stu bel .
the ful non - lin mod use a mix of loc fac ana in the sam way
tha the non - lin pca mod use a mix of pri com ana .
the sam em - bas met can be use to ( cid : 123 ) t the com mod , wit the e -
pha ass res for ima to the fac ana in a har or sof
man , and the m - pha ada the gen mod wit in ana acc
to the new cov mat of the dat for whi it tak res .
bec
fac ana is a gen gen mod we avo the arb cho of ( cid : 123 )
is req to app em to a mix of pca mod .
iv tan inf
nea nei met o ( cid : 123 ) er sim , non - par , way of dis be -
twe the dig .
how , the met tha is use to jud pro can mak a
sub di ( cid : 123 ) ere to the qua of the res inf .
the are dis -
nat and max lik way to loo at thi iss .
for ins , has and
tib ( ) cho a met for the nea nei at a poi bas on inf -
mat fro loc lin dis ana ( emp dir in whi the
ima fro the di ( cid : 123 ) ere cla di ( cid : 123 ) er and dow dir in whi the are
on the oth han , sim et al ( ) , in the met des in the int ,
use an app tha owe mor to mod the loc str of the cla .
the app is bas on pri inf , kno to be val for the par
tas of dig mod , tha cer loc man of an ima pre the
ide of the dig tha is des .
e ( cid : 123 ) ect , eac poi is rep by a loc
low dim lin man , def in the dir of whi inc no cos .
equ , eac ima is mod as a loc lin sur .
not tha the loc
sur are cho to mod the ima of eac dig as bes as pos , and not to
sup the bes pos dis bet the .
thi loc low - dim
and lin beh is wha mot our lin mod .
sch and mil
( ) , ( ) tak a sli di ( cid : 123 ) ere app and com dow all kno abo a
cha int a sin pro tra to dir min the dis bet
the pro and the tan pla aro eac of the tra exa .
fig ill the ide .
ima tha the fou poi - por in ima spa
di ( cid : 123 ) ere exa of the sam dig , sub to som smo tra
in tan dis , one cou rep thi cur usi the poi and the loc
tan ( thi lin ) .
how one mig do bet spl it int thr loc lin
mod rat tha fou ( mod a ( jus a lin in thi sim cas ) ave the upp
par of the cur mor e ( cid : 123 ) ect tha the com of the two tan at and
giv jus the poi , one mig als con mod b for and , whi
wou be unf .
inc inf abo the tan as wel wou
enc the sep of the seg .
car sho be tak in gen thi
pic to hig dim spa .
for bot pca and fa , the out is lin rel to the inp , ie yi = axi wit
a = rg .
in ord for the mod to be tol to dis alo tan dir
j ind the dir , for exa , hor and ver tra , sca and she
fig : did exa of tan dis and loc lin mod .
see tex for
ti; req tha bot xi + ( cid : 123 ) jti and xi
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) jti be rec wel , whe ( cid : 123 ) j is
a par tha ind how far alo the tan vec ti; goo rec
sho be enf .
the ove rec err is the pro to
and so the mod has to rec the tan vec as wel as the und
ima .
the rel imp of the lat wit res to the for is con
a sim exp gov the cod cos for the hid uni in fa .
an alt way of vie thi pri is in ter of add add exa
to the tra set tha are gen by the man .
eac exa wou
be rep by a gau clo of ( cid : 123 ) cti exa .
add the exa is
str usi met suc as pca and fa whi are bas on jus the
cov mat of the inp ( it amo to add int the cov mat the
a pri tan vec , wei by an amo , ( cid : 123 ) j , tha tra o ( cid : 123 ) the imp
of the und pat and the imp of the inv .
the one di ( cid : 123 ) ere
fro jus add ext exa to the dat is tha we set the res of
eac mod for the tan vec acc to how wel the mod rec jus
the par ima , sin the int is to for the loc lin mod to cap the
inv the , usi the tan to sha the loc str wit a sub -
if the dat of tra exa had jus bee exp , thi con
wou not hav bee app .
the are two di ( cid : 123 ) ere bet thi use of the tan vec and tha in sim
et al ( ) .
one is tha for us , the e ( cid : 123 ) ect of the tan has a lim spa ex -
ten , whe for the , the lin man abo eac ima ext to in ( cid : 123 ) nit
pra , in hig dim ima spa , it is unl tha ima wil hav ver
lar pro wit the tan spa and sma pro o ( cid : 123 ) it .
the sec
di ( cid : 123 ) ere is tha sim et al con tan man to the tes ima as
wel as the tra ima ( thi req ( cid : 123 ) ndi the clo app bet the
lin man abo the tes ima and the lin man abo all the tra
ima .
it wou be str to do thi dur rec for bot pca and
fa; how doi it dur lea is com mor tri ( ) .
sim et als met wou be irr in the lim of ver lar num of tra
ima , sin the dat its wou con all the tra tha act
pre dig ide .
in the sam lim , the loc lin pca and fa met wou
als not ben ( cid : 123 ) t fro the tan .
v exp res
we hav eva the e ( cid : 123 ) cac of pca and fa bas den mod at cla
ima of han dig .
for bot pca and fa mod , wit and wit tan -
gen , we pro as fol : dur the tra pha , onl ima of one cla ( say
ima of s ) are pre to the mix mod .
the lea alg out
in sec ii is exe and bui a mix of lin sub - mod for eac cla
ord to sav tim , we ini the sea for fa mod fro the pca mod
pca mod the cod cos is jus the rec cos , whi for the fa mod ,
one for of the com cod cos for exa i is obt as the sum of cod
the rec err and the cod cos of the fac .
usi gau mod for
bot , thi can be exp as :
+ tra ( ( cid : 123 ) ) + ( rxi ) t
j ( cid : 123 ) gj rx
j ) + g
j ( cid : 123 ) gji +
whe gj is the j
th row of g .
a tes ima x is pre to all den mod and
est of the cla con pro , p ( xjk ) ; k = : : : are obt
all inc cla ( cid : 123 ) cat are equ cos and if the pri bel is tha all cla
are equ lik the the bay dec rul sti tha we sho ass x to
the cla k
( cid : 123 ) = arg ( xjk )
we use ima fro the ced cdr dat of cit , sta , zip cod ,
dig , and alp cha ( ) .
the br tra set of bin seg dig -
its was sub int two set of siz , and , res .
the for
sub was use to tra the den mod and the lat sub was use as a cro -
val set to all us to cho var par suc as the num of loc
lin sub - mod to use in the mix and the num of pri com
( fac ) in the pca ( fa ) mod .
whe bui mod tha use tan inf -
tio we are als fre to spe the rel wei ( ( cid : 123 ) j in equ ( ) ) .
in rea ,
we did not per an exh sea for opt val for all the par ,
but sim cho val tha did rea wel on the cro - val ima
the res rep her , we all up to pri com ( or fac ) in
eac sub - mod .
the wer als sub - mod in eac mix .
the ced dat inc two des tes set .
the goo ( ima )
set is a sub of the bs
( ima ) set con onl wel seg dig .
aft pic all the par val , we use all ; ima to tra a ( cid : 123 ) nal
ver of the mod whi was use to eva per on the tes set .
the bin ima in the dat set are of var siz , so we ( cid : 123 ) rst sca the to
lie on an ( cid : 123 ) pix gri and the smo wit a gau ( cid : 123 ) lte wit a sta
dev of hal a pix .
fig ill rec of two ver di ( cid : 123 ) ere sty of s .
sub - mod
whi hav spe for one sty rec poo ima of the oth sty .
exa of the pca and fa mod wei are sho in ( cid : 123 ) gur and res -
tiv .
in the pca mod , the rec and gen wei mat are sim
tra of eac oth whi for the fa mod the di ( cid : 123 ) er .
the per of the di ( cid : 123 ) ere met are pre in tab .
the are no sig -
ni ( cid : 123 ) can di ( cid : 123 ) ere bet the per of the di ( cid : 123 ) ere met at the p < :
lev on the bs
tes set whe com pai usi a two - tai mcn
in com the col of tab , it is imp to not tha the
goo is a car cho sub of the bs tes dat whe poo seg dig -
thi was usu su ( cid : 123 ) cie to exp at lea % of the tra set var ass to tha
sub - mod .
pri com tha exp in exc of % wer dis to avo ove ( cid : 123 ) tti .
thi fol bec the wei vec are mut ort and so the the gen mod
inv is sim its tra .
its wer man rem ( ) .
the tra dat was als man scr
is the rea to con by com the val and goo per -
man tha the mod did not ove ( cid : 123 ) t .
fig : ope of the mix of pca mod on two di ( cid : 123 ) ere sty of s
( cid : 123 ) ima is sho at the bot .
the ( cid : 123 ) rst two row sho the rec
fro eac of the sub - mod in the den est tra on ima of s .
att to eac sub - mod rec is its rec cos rel to the
bes sub - mod ( whi has cos of zer )
as a com , oth sta of the art met obt abo % err rat ( ) on
the ori dat whi had a mea siz of aro ( cid : 123 ) pix .
thu the ima
we use had are abo tim sma and so cou wel hav los inf .
as a rou gui k - nea nei has an err rat of : % on the bs tes set .
thi is sig ( cid : 123 ) can wor ( p < : ) tha the per obt wit the pca
wit tan met or the fa met .
the k - nea nei met req
k = cho on the bas of the val set
fig : wei in the sub - mod of the pca den mod for the dig .
on the lef are the mea .
the upp row imm to the rig of the mea
sho the inp - hid wei ( rec wei ) , whi the low row giv the
hid - out wei ( gen wei ) .
of the ord of n = , n dim ( in thi cas n = ) dot pro to cla
an ima in one of the las col in tab .
our loc mod ( pca or fa )
req of the ord ( cid : 123 ) m ( cid : 123 ) r n - dim dot pro for eac den mod .
sin the are dig and we use m = r = , the den mod req of
the ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) = or abo a fac of ( cid : 123 ) ve tim les com tha
a str imp of the k - nea nei met .
the num
of dot pro for the tan dis met dep on the num of tan
dir ( ) .
if tan dir are use on the dat the of the ord of ( cid : 123 ) n
dot pro are nee , or abo a fac of tim the loc mod ver .
fig : wei in the sub - mod of the fa den mod for the dig
lay is the sam as in ( cid : 123 ) gur .
we hav con two di ( cid : 123 ) ere sor of loc lin mod of ima of dig , one
bas on pri com ana and one on fac ana , and hav sho
tha the can bot per wel at dig dis .
the mod ill thr
maj poi .
fir , lin mod wit jus a few dim can be use to goo
e ( cid : 123 ) ect for rep the loc str of the hig dim com man
of the pix ima of dig .
sec , all mul com in the mix
can be ver ben ( cid : 123 ) cia .
in gen , thi cou be bot for cap gro di ( cid : 123 ) ere
sty of the dig ( suc as s wit and wit loo in the tai ) and for the e ( cid : 123 ) ect
of a ( cid : 123 ) ne tra of the dig by mor tha abo a sin pix , whi hav
pca + tan
fa + tan
tab : per of ima inc cla ( cid : 123 ) ed by eac of the met
val res wer obt whe the den mod wer tra usi the
; tra exa .
the res in the las two col wer obt wit
mod tra on all ; tra ima .
hig non - lin e ( cid : 123 ) ect on the obs ima . thi , a pri inf abo
the loc str of the man tha com fro kno abo inv
of dig ide ove cer tra ( ) is ver eas to inc int
the lin mod .
not tha fa is jus a par way of lim the num of
par tha de ( cid : 123 ) ne the cov mat use to mod dat .
it is cle tha if the man of the ima is mos di ( cid : 123 ) ere , the loc lin -
ear mod wil do wel at rep the .
usi the em sch for ite
com clu ( cid : 123 ) nds the set of ima tha res the loc str and
( cid : 123 ) nds the nat sep poi bet the dis par .
nea nei
sin we did not hav eno dat to ( cid : 123 ) t a ver lar num of loc mod for eac dig , and
the dig wer rea wel nor , the di ( cid : 123 ) ere loc mod wer mos due to di ( cid : 123 ) ere
sch are the log lim of suc sch , and sho wor bes if one has so
man exa tha the loc str of the man can be inf by ( cid : 123 ) ndi the
nea poi or poi and ( cid : 123 ) tti a lin sur to the .
the are two pot
adv to the em sch .
fir , it is usi inf fro som dis
ima to det the loc dir in the man , all it to ave awa
the sub noi tha cor the ima .
of cou , if too muc ave is
don , the the dir cou be sys bia .
sec , at rec tim ,
rat tha hav to sea the ent tra set to ( cid : 123 ) nd the pat clo to the
new inp , kno abo the pat has bee pre - com int the lim
num of cen and the lim num of pri com or fac dir
ass wit the .
rec can the be qui fas .
in thi stu , we did not ( cid : 123 ) nd tha muc di ( cid : 123 ) ere bet our two sor of mod
for the cov str wit a lin pat .
one mig hav exp fac
ana to hav had bet per , sin its pri mod of the ima gen -
tio pro is mor rea .
for fa , giv the fac , any dis bet
the mod and the ima are ind fro one pix to the nex .
pca use a
sph gau in the dir not cov by the ret com , and thi
can amo to a com dis ove the pix the .
als fa exp -
itl mod cov str , whe pca mod bot var and cov .
thi adv may hav bee nul ( cid : 123 ) ed by our nor and reg pro -
ced .
on the oth han , it is com muc che to per pca
dur the lea pha , alt the are equ exp dur rec .
bot mod per sou on the dat .
fin a bet way to reg the
fa mod aga irr pix is imp .
giv its mod , fa is com
cor to ass a zer var to out pix tha are sil thr the
tra set .
our pri kno tha thi mig hap can be use to spe a
mor com pri tha mak it pos tha pix tha are gen ina
can occ be cor by noi .
we als fou tha the inc of tan vec did not sub imp the
per .
our use of tan vec is ess an ins of tan - pro
( ) , whi con the out of the net to sat app inv
thr its dir der .
sin our net are lin , the dir
der are par sim , all the tan vec jus to be add int
the cov mat .
if the tan abo inp xk wer per cap by a
lin mod cen at tha poi , the the rec err e
i for inp xi wou
be exa the one - sid tan dis fro xi to the tan spa of inp xk .
has & sim ( ) , dev a loc lin mix mod ana to the one
des her , exc usi two - sid tan dis dur the who of lea .
tan wou be exp not to hel if the are eno dat poi tha the
exp dir all the act inv .
it is cha to mod the low dim man of hig dim pix
ima of dig in a com tra man .
our loc lin mod
are des to cap asp of the sho - ran str of the man and to
res oth kno abo the dig mod pro , suc as the fac tha
the are di ( cid : 123 ) ere sty of han eve for the sam dig .
the mod are
con and com str .
thi res was fun by app and by the ont inf tec res cen .
we tha pat sim , zou gha , rob tib and yan le cun for hel dis .
geo ( cid : 123 ) rey hin is the nes - bur fel of the can ins for adv res .
