ng a ed nn ne
ed nn es re el - ed ng ry ic en ts .
se an be ed by ng ch ry it by an te er of es at ll ve he me ts ut ve ro - ly re ve es .
he ng nd ce es or se ed ig - id ts re ed .
ey an be ap - ed ly by sy , ed in - ar ts .
ed th ry ts , se ts rn es at re er or ct on on he rb et nd ce on on he ed es in he ld et .
ke ry ts , ed ar ts ve on ut ve in - es as on ls gh ul - le rs of re rs .
ed nn es ( ms ) ve en ed as ve ls of ny nt es of ta ng ed or ed es ( on et al . , 23 ) , es of el - al ef - ts at nt ch ( ed & on , 23 ) , gs of ds ( ov & on , 23 ) , nd er gs of es ( ov et al . , 23 ) .
in ir on - rm ey an be ed to el gh - al al es ch as eo or mo - on re ta ( or et al . , 23 ) .
ir st im - nt se is as ng es at re ed to rm ep ef ts ( on et al . , 23 ) .
es ed of ry ls an be ed by an bm at es a er of ry en ts ( ea - re rs ) to el he er - er ns en ls .
if re re no ct ns be - en he en ts nd no ct ns be - en he le ts at nt he ls , re is a le nd nt od ed ve ce to rn a od et of re rs om a et of ng es ( on , 23 ) .
we rt th ll , om ts on he ic ec - ns en ch el i nd ch re or j .
en we ly te ch ht , ij , ng he ce en wo ed , se ns
ij = ( ta on )
re is a ng te , ta is he cy th ch le it i nd en it j re on to - er en he re rs re ng en by es om he ng et nd < hj on is he ng cy en he en ts re be - ng en by ed es .
a ar ng le an be ed or he es .
en a ng ge , we et he ry te , hj , of ch re or to be 23 th ty
p ( hj = 23 ) =
23 + xp ( bj is ij )
re bj is he as of j nd vi is he ry te of el i .
ce ry es ve en en or he en ts we ce a on of he ng ge by ng he te of ch el to be 23 th ty
p ( vi = 23 ) =
23 + xp ( bi id ij )
ng in gs of he 23 th al er - ce on ne ng , fa , el , 23
ht 23 by he or ( s ) / er ( s ) .
he ed ts nd es ly ne a ty on er ll le ry es ia he gy , e ( v , h ) , of a nt on of he
us ve ms
le nd en ts :
e ( v , h ) = x
hj ij x
p ( v ) = ph ee ( v , h )
an ts
ms re ly ed ng ry as - ic ts or th he le nd en rs to al th al - ed ta ( on & ov , 23 ) ed he ry le ts by ar ts th nt us - an se as st ed by ( nd & er , 23 ) .
he gy on en es :
e ( v , h ) = x
re i is he rd on of he an se or le it i .
it is le to rn he ce of he se or ch le it ut is is lt ng ry en ts .
in ny ns , it is ch er to st se ch nt of he ta to ve ro an nd it ce nd en to se se - ee re - ns , th he ce in on 23 et to 23
he ed ue of a an le it is en al to ts op - wn ut om he ry id - en ts us ts as .
we se is pe of se - ee le it or he ls of ct nd ce es
ed ar ts
to ow ch it to ss re on , ( eh & on , 23 ) ed al ts ch an be ed as n te es of a ry it at ll re he me as nd ts .
a ce de - ct of ng ht - ng to ze a ew pe of it ut of ry ts is at he cs ng ng in ry - ry ms ns ed .
ce ll n es ve he me al ut , ey ll ve he me ty , p , of rn - ng on nd is ly as to be ed ce .
he ed er at re on is n p nd he ce in is er is n p ( 23 p ) .
or ll p , is ts ke a on it , ut as p es 23 he ce be - es ll in ch ay ot be le .
so , or ll es of p he th in p is al in he al ut .
is es ng ch ss le
re 23
a on of ee nt ys to el ed ar ts .
he ed ve ws he ed ue of he um of an te er of ry ts th ch ng a as ne ss an he us ne .
he ue ve is he on og ( xp ( x ) ) .
he en ve is he ed ue of a ed ar it th ed an se as ed in on 23
he ed nd ue es re ly le .
an or he ed id ts ( su ) ed
a ll on to al ts es em ar re ng as ls of al ns nd so re ul or al ns .
we ke an in - te er of es at ll ve he me ed ht or w nd he me ed as , b , ut ch py as a nt , ed et to he as .
if he o - ts re 23 , 23 , 23 , . . .
he um of he li - es of he es is ly se to ng a ed rm ( re 23 ) :
( x i + 23 ) og ( 23 + ex ) ,
re x = wt + b .
so he al ty of ll of he es es ke a sy , er - ed on of a ed ed ar 23
en gh og ( 23 + ex ) is ot in he al ly , we an el it ly ng a et of ry ts th ed ts nd ed as ts .
is et as no re rs an an ry ry it , ut it es a ch re ex - ve le .
he ce in he er ty el is ( x ) so ts at re ly o do ot te se nd he se es ot me ge en x is
a ck of ng ch py a as at rs by a ed et is at he ic id on ds to be ed ny es to et he es
if we ly se n es , we ed to ct he rm
og ( 23 + xn ) om he on .
us ve ms
ed or ng an er ue ly .
is le , er , to se a st on in ch he ed ue of he ed ar it is ot ed to be an er .
ad it is en by ax ( 23 , +n ( 23 , ( x ) ) re n ( 23 , v ) is an se th ro an nd ce v .
we ll a it at es is on a n ed ar u it ( lu ) nd is er ws at us rk er an ry en ts or al nt
( tt et al . , 23 ) ve ed us ed es ( ng he ax ( 23 , x ) ty , ch ey er to as ve rt ) in he on - xt of al ks nd ve nd em to ve ve ce .
ur al ts in ns 23 nd 23 er rt is ob - on .
we so ve an te ic on or he ax ( 23 , x ) ty , er ng ir se .
ty ce
us ve me ng al er - es ( er et al . , 23 ) , ne of ch is ry se - ul or ct on .
a or on en ng an ct on em is ow to ke he ut nt to es of he ut ch as on , le , on , ng tc .
al al ks re en id to ve on ce ut in ir re rm ey ly ve ng te nt .
if an ct is ed in he ut ge , ts on in a ol of al rs at ve ed ts is so ed .
so if it an be ed ll by a rn of re es en it is in ne on , it an so be ep - ed ly ll by a ed rn of re es en it is er on .
we ll is on ce : he on es in he me ay as he ge .
in a ep al et , on ce is ed by ng ub - ng to ce a ll nt of on ce er ch er of rs .
ry en ts do ot it ty ri - ce , ut ed ar ts do , ed ey ve ro es nd re se - ee .
ng up ll of he in - es in an ge by > 23 ot ge er a ro - as it es a al ut ve or ow ro .
so ll of he o ts in o nd he re - er ll se ir es by a or of .
is ys ue or ny rs of ed ar ts .
en ng er wo ce es me om he me on , we ke se of is ce ty of ec - ed ar ts by ng he on on he ne
of he le en he es of he re ec - rs in he st en er .
he re rs re ty nt nd he ne is ty ri - nt .
he pe of ty ce at is nt or on ot be ed by ly ng ll he el es by ir um .
is ld se a ig ge in he es of re rs at nd to he ts of a ce en re is a ht ot in he nd .
al on
we ly re us to ic bi - ry en 23 on wo on ks : 23 ) ct on on he ed - ed rb et ( un et al . , 23 ) , nd 23 ) ce on on he ed es in he ld et ( ng et al . , 23 ) .
th ts in ed ge ri - ty at ke em lt ks .
so , ey th dy ve a er of ed ts or us ds , ch es a nt is or ng ow od ur ts re .
we se ms th ry en ts or us to ly re - in ne or re rs of es nd we en ly ne - ne he es ng on .
on th ks us ve er ve ce an ry ts .
he ve ls se he ic on of us at nt he on y = ax ( 23 , x ) .
or on , we ke he nt of is on to be 23 en x 23 nd 23 en x > 23 ( i . e .
we re he ty at x = 23 ) .
ed - ed rb
rb is a ic 3d ct on et at ns ve es of ys ( ns , ls , rs , es , ks ) ed by a eo - ir am - ra em om nt ts er nt ng ns .
rb es in al ns he ed - ed on as le eo - ir es th ed nd nd a al ct ch is ly ed in on , ze , el ty tc .
re is so a or ct ed in he ry .
es om he et re wn in re 23
or ch ss , re re en nt es , ve of ch re in he ng et nd he st in he st et .
so at st me a as - er ds to ze en es of he me es .
in on to he ve ct es , re is a th ss se es in ne of he ts in he re .
or ls ee ( un et al . , 23 ) .
we so ed th al ts ut ey re
no er an ry ts , so we it se ts .
us ve ms
re 23
eo - ir ng es om he ed - ed rb ng et .
he eo - ir es re ed om ir ig - al on of 23 23 23 to 23 23 23 to ed up ts .
ey re ed to be ro - an nd ed by he ge rd on of ll he ls in ll he ng es .
re re 23 , 23 ng es ( 23 , 23 es er ss ) nd 23 , 23 st es ( 23 , 23 es er ss ) .
we ld ut 23 , 23 es om he ng et nd se em as a on et or ng he el re ( er of id - en ts nd er of rs ) nd or ly op - ng .
he on et is ed by ng ll 23 , 23 ng es of a le ( ly ed ) ct ce om ch of he ve ct es , nd an al er of ly ed es om he
to in a er we se a ar ch to ( le et al . , 23 ) .
we st ly re - in wo rs of es , ch as an bm ng cd .
en we se al on at he op - st en er to ct he el nd ly ne - ne he rs in ll rs of he er ( ee re 23 ) .
we ve ed 23 , 23 nd 23 ts or he st en er , nd 23 nd 23 ts or he nd ne .
ng re ts ys ve er on ts , so he re th he st ts ve 23 ts in he st er nd 23 in he nd .
we ct at he ts ll be en er th re en ts .
es , he ls re ed by an ts ( on & ov , 23 ) nd he en ts re er us or ic ry ts .
re - ng is ne or 23 hs ( in th rs ) , ng ni - es of 23 ng es th a rn - ng te of 23 ed to he ge er - se cd te , ng th um ( on et al . , 23 ) .
re 23 ws a et of es ed by he st - el bm th 23 us in he en er .
ny of se re or - ke rs , so us em le of ng ly le es om es .
he on ts ( on 23 ) ow at ey re ly le as ll .
re 23
re 23
rk re ed or ed rb on sk .
we ly re - in wo en rs of us as ms .
he ss el is ed as a k - al ry or th 23 - of - k on , re k is he er of es .
he er es he ty of he k es om he nd er en es 23 ng he ax on .
on of ng es on ch a en it is ve
re 23
am of us ed ng to ow en ey re ve ( i . e .
as a ue ve ro ) on ng es , as ed on ed - ed rb or an bm th 23 us in he en er .
is a am at ws ow en he en ts in is bm ve es ve ro on he ng et .
if a it is ys ve , en it ld nd up in he st in of he am .
te at an ys - ve it is ly ar ce it er ts ed .
as he am ws , re re no ch ts in is el .
re is me ty in ow en he ts re ve .
we ve ed at he es at nd to ch of he ee ks in he is - am : he ak ar 23 on he x - is re or - ke rs , le he ak ar 23 re nt rs .
he er ak en 23 nd 23 ds ly to re al rs .
on ts
le 23 ts he st et or es of rs th a le en er , ng er ry ts or re - us , th nd ut re - ng .
us ut -
us ve ms
re 23
a et of he es ed by an bm on es om ed - ed rb .
he bm as 23 us in he en er , nd se wn re he 23 es th he st 23 rm .
ng by 23 rm ds to ck es th ll - ed or - ke ht ns .
ly ut 3% of he es re or - ke .
he st st of rs th re al ht ns , as ll as nt rs at py ls to he en ts .
rm ry ts , th en ly ed nd en re - ed .
re - ng ps ve he ce of th it es .
ut us th - ut re - ng re er an ry ts th re -
le 23 ts he ts or rs th wo en rs .
st as or le en er rs , re - us rm ry ts ss of er dy re - ng is ed ly in he st er , in th rs , or ot at ll .
re - ng es he ts : re - ng ly he st er nd ly ng he nd er is er an ly ed th .
re - ng th rs es er nt or us ut ot or ry ts .
or on , he or es of me er od - ls re : al on on ls 3% , us - an el vm 3% , al et 3% , on - al et th an vm at he op - st id - en er 3% .
he st ee ts re om ( io & un , 23 ) .
ur ts re se an at of al ts , ut 23 ) ur ls se av - ly ed es , nd 23 ) al ts ve ge of ge gy nd te ns - on ce rd - ed to ir re .
le 23
st or es or rs th wo en ay - rs ( 23 ts in he st , 23 in he nd ) , ed on 23 23 23 ed - ed rb es .
ed es in he ld
he on sk or he ed es in he ld ( fw ) et is as ws : en wo ce es as ut , ct er he es of he es re he me or nt .
he et ns ur es of ic es ed om he eb ng a al - ce or .
he ng ox ed by he ce or is ed to ly ze he es on nd le in he ge .
me es om he et re wn in re 23
or ls ee ( ng et al . , 23 ) .
le 23
st or es or rs th 23 en ts ed on 23 23 23 ed - ed rb im -
re - ed ? lu ry
re 23
ce - ir es om he ed es in he
us ve ms
rk re
he sk es a ry er th wo ts of ts ( he wo es ) .
if we ch he wo ts er nd at he lt as ne ed ut or , he rs ut ll nd on he er in ch he ts re ed .
to ke he as - er ic th ct to he ts , we se a se re ( ra et al . , 23 ) .
he ea is to rn a on at es a le ce as ut nd es me re or om it .
en a ir of es , is on is ed to th es ly , nd he wo ng re rs re om - ed ng a ed , ic on to a le on ch is nt to ut er .
he ty of he wo es ng he me on is ed as ut om is on .
he en - re em , ng he re or ed er he wo es , an be ed ly .
re we se he re or to be a ly - ed rd er of us , re - ed as an bm .
we se ne ce as he ic on at es he wo re rs .
co - ne ce is nt to ng of ts ts , ch en ed th he ce of re - us es he re el ly nt to ng of he ls by a ve ar .
he in - ce ds ss of he er of rs of us , so it is le to in ep es th is ty .
in er to ke he re ex - or ly nt , we do ot se es to he en ts .
re 23 ws he re of ur ce on el .
fw es re of ze 23 ( 23 ur ls ) th he ce in he re nd a ot of nd ur - ng it .
ly it as en nd at ns re le to et 3% cy on he fw sk en en he re of he ge is ed ( ar et al . , 23 ) .
to nt nd on om ti - ly ng he ts , we ly se a 23 23 ow om he re .
he es re en ed nd ed ch at he es of he es re he me ss ll es .
we er le is in - ow to 23 ( 23 ls ) .
he me ge al - on re ed or ed - ed rb is ed re as ll .
fw ns 23 , 23 es of 23 , 23 le .
or he es of ng ts , he rs of fw ve re - ed 23 ts of he et or 23 - ld ss on , ch ng 23 , 23 ng rs nd 23 st rs .
he er of me nd er -
re 23
se rk ed or he ed es in he ld sk .
he re or fw ns ne en er of us re - ed as an bm ( on le es ) th rs w .
fw is ed to he ce im - es ia nd ib , nd he ne ce d en he re - ng re rs fw ( ia ) nd fw ( ib ) is ed .
he ty of he wo es ng he me ty is en ed as p r ( me ) = w nd b re ar le rs .
nt es re ys al , th or ng nd st ts .
he es of he le in he ng nd st ts re ys pt nt , so at st me he el st ct on en es .
we st re - in a er of es as an bm ng ll 23 , 23 le es in he ng et of ch it , en ug it to he se re in re 23 nd im - ly ne - ne he rs on rs of es .
as re , ng re - ng ls re an ts , nd he en ts re er us or ic
re 23 ws 23 of he 23 es ed by an bm on 23 23 ur es th us in he en er .
ke he rb el in on 23 , is el is so re - ed or 23 hs on ni - es of ze 23 th a ng te of 23 nd um .
he el as ed rs or ts of es ke es , se , th , ye ws tc .
me es ct he ry of he ce .
re is a ix of ed rs nd re al es at ct re an st a le rt of he ce .
he am in re 23 ws ow en he ts in is bm rn on or he es in fw .
ke he rb el , re he am as ly ne ak .
in ar , re re st no nt rs in is
ng ve ne - ng , we se a et of he bg ce et ( ar et al . , 23 ) as a li - on et or ng he el re nd or
us ve ms
ve - ld ss on .
le 23 ts he ge cy of us ls , ng th he rd ns .
ls ng us em to be re te , ut he rd ns re oo ge to aw rm ns .
he wo nt st fw ts re 23 23 ( lf et al . , 23 ) , nd 23 23 ( ar et al . , 23 ) .
he er es a al ic ce nt em to ze he es , le he at - er es al ls ( ed ly ) at de - be he ce , ch as ty , ex , ge tc .
ch ts an be ed to ur el as ll , nd ey re ly to se cy ly .
se ts ay so be ng om he ck - nd ls nd he ce , ch we ve ( ly )
es of ly ny
we ve wn at us rk ll or na - on , ut ey re so an ng ay of ng he ty of al - ed , gh - al ta .
a rd ay to do is is to se a re of ag - al ns .
ly we an se a re of or rs .
th of se ls re po - ly nt if he ta ns al re .
er , or le , es of rs of nt ts .
if a re el or le it es ds n ts , a le re el of rs of ts ds n 23 ts .
ly , is al th in he er of ts in he re an be ed th ly ar th in he er of nt es nd ic th in he er of rs if we se ed ar
er ng ed ar ts th ro as to el ta at es on he ce of a it er - re .
ch ed ar it ds to a ne gh he re of he re .
an ty of 23 or ne lf of he re nd or he er lf ts ty es ly th ce om at ne .
n ts an te 3n re - ns on he ce of he 23
as we ve
ng he re is at st n - al .
le 23
cy on he fw sk or us ls ed on 23 23 ur es .
re 23
a et of he es ed by an bm on 23 23 ur es om fw .
he bm as 23 re - us in he en er , nd wn ve re he 23 ea - es th he st 23 rm .
on of ng es on ch a en it is ve
re 23
am of us ed ng to ow en ey ve a ue ve ro on le ce es in fw or an bm th 23 us in he en er .
ly ng .
is et , ed he nt et by he rs of bg , do ot in ny en - es at re in fw .
on ts
as ed re , er re - ng a le er of es as an bm , we rt it to he se re in re 23 nd ly ne - ne he rs .
we ve ed ls th 23 , 23 , 23 nd 23 ts in he en er .
he ce in cy is ll en 23 nd 23 ts ll he ts in is on re or 23 ts .
he es of fw fy at a ls cy st be ed ng en - ld ss on ng he en re - ed ts of he et .
to ed up ex - ts , we ge wo ts to ne nd rm
us ve ms
nd in ch of se ns he et of ts at re on - ro es ot ge so we ve a in - ar el , ut it is a nt ar el in ry on .
he ng ns of he ly ny ar ls re ed ly by he me rs as re ed to ne p ( |h ) nd , ke a ed el , he ng ns re rd to te ly ( ir & on , 23 ) .
is is a ch er ay of ly ge re of ar ls th ed nt es an he od ed in ( on et al . , 23 ) ch es ed ar ls as he ts of he re nd a te ig - id ef et to de ch en ts ld be rt of he nt ar el .
in at el , it is rd to er he es of he ry nt es nd re an be ps in ty at he ry be - en wo ar ns .
a ig ge of ch - ng en ar ls at he nt re a en it es an ut of ly ro is at it ds es in he ed ty ty .
we ed ow to te a re ul pe of id - en it or an bm by ng he ts nd es of an te et of ry ts .
we en xi - ed se ed id ts th sy ed ar ts nd ed at ey rk er an bi - ry en ts or ng ts nd ar - ng es .
we so ed at ey an al th ge ty ns ch re ly an ry ts .
ly we ed at ey nt ix - es of ed ar ls ( ks & an , 23 ) th a ge er of ts ng a od - st er of rs .
