ct .
he on at ed er cs re ot in ( id : 23 ) ed is te n en to ly at he ns t at an sm ns ng ts me ot de he se of ut on .
is ce is or ec t ( 23 ) .
ng lt rs he pe of he ch ce in ch lu io n es nd by ro es od ut on ar y hs wa ds ts of co - ed es .
we st r at e at th is ct ws ng ms to ve ch er an ir 23 ( id : 23 ) ng ts , en gh he is cs ed by he pe re ot ed to he pe .
ny an ms rn ul a ns ng t ir me .
t se ad ap ( id : 23 ) ns re en he su lt of an ry ch ch es ut m ny si ti es in or er t o d er od so ut ns .
it ms ry fu l ot to m ak e se of he on er or ed by t he p pe to at e he vo lu t ry ch or go od es .
t he us ay to ve is is to t r er rm ti on ut he ui re d cs ck to t he pe .
st ts ow pt at he am ki an is is ot su d; me en in er at rn in g ot de t he vo ( id : 23 ) ry ch .
we se a s le al nt to ow at is ce is ct nd t at rn ng an be ry ve in id ( id : 23 ) ng he ch , en en t he ic ns t at re ed re ot un ed to he pe .
in d cu lt ry es ch re re ny es to b e ed in er to di er a ex co ( id : 23 ) a on , we em on st r at e at ch in g al an b e st as ul t o he ry ch as t he p ro ct on nd lu on of a le ew sm .
t h is ly as es t he cy of on se a rn ( id : 23 ) in g al is m uc h as er an d qu ir es ch ss en d re of gy t an t he pr on of a wh le sm .
in g an p de an sy vo lu t ry th ds co - ed al ( id : 23 ) es in ts t at av ~ n o oo d ry p th or on - ng ms .
t h is pe of ct on en ng nd vo lu t on as
23 ex ms p ns , nc .
ey e .
on nd en j .
an
st ed hy in 23 nd yd an ( nd is es ca ed he in ct .
dd on 23 ed a ar pe of on et en al es nd ut on nd ed it " on " or " et ic on " .
so ar as we an t ll , re ve en no om ( id : 23 ) er at ns or es of he cs at te he tu de of he ct .
an ex t r em e nd le xa m p le
sm is st od by ng an me ( nd ea ic ) se in ch t he cs re ry ar .
ne an an sm t at ns a al et in ch re re ny ot ti al nn ti ns .
up ( id : 23 ) se at t he ne t ly on rs ed ve tn ss on he sm if it is ec te d in ly he ht ay .
in is rs t se , re is no le ut ry th ds he oo d et nd a p re on ( id : 23 ) ry ch an on ly er wh ch of he al ns ho ld be pr nt by ng es at an om .
t he od et is ke a le in
he ry ch ce es ch er if he no pe sp es me of he ns ut re to ut ns , ut es er ns to ng .
is as he ct of ng a ge ne of ed tn ss nd he od et .
er he ly sp ed ns re ct , he pe fa ls it in is ne nd ll ve ed ss se ng ll nd a ce of ng ow to ke he ng ns so as to ce he od et .
is es he ry ch ch er .
it is ke ng or le in a ck en ne te ls ou en ou re ng se .
t he al nt of he gu nt is at he on wh o ls ou at ou re tt ng se do es ot ed to ll ou ng re .
a im u at on
we ve ed a le le of th is nd of ti on en ng nd on .
he al et as 23 al ns , nd he pe as 23 es " , ch of wh ch as ee te ve ms ( a l ( id : 23 ) es ) ed 23 , 23 , nd ? he 23 le es at a on ld he nt , a es at it ld be nt , nd ? es a on ng a ch ch an be en or ed .
it is ft to ng to de ow he es ho ld be et .
we me , or ty , a ng sm at ly es a an om on of ch gs on it he on of he ch gs nd he ly ed ec ns er ce he ne od et we me at he ch
23 we me , or ty , at ch po nt al on is ed by ts wn ne .
ly , we do ot be ve at th e ti hi p en es nd on ns is
ow ng an de on
gs re en .
se ey ep ng . ?
he ry ch is ed th a on of he ic al ( id : 23 ) hm ed by nd 3j .
re 23 ws ow ng rs he pe of he ch ce in ch on es .
re 23 ws at ns to he ve es of th e ct , ct , nd ? es ng a al ry ch in ch ch sm ns ny ng ls ng ts me .
ce at he al er of an ( id : 23 ) ms ed is ar ss an he 23 ' at ld be ed to nd he od et by a re ry ch .
ne ng re of re 23 is at re is ry le ve re in or of ly sp ng he st ew al ns , se a ew ng ls is st ys nt to rn he ct gs of st a ew es .
he me em as er ed by an ry ch ut ng .
is as ot a ng t; he em as ed to be ly lt or an ry ch , ch es on he ta ( id : 23 ) on of ll co - ed ts of es to ov de a er an om ch of he ce .
he ke of ss in ur le ( re 23 ) ns at he ly co - on at rs ed tn ss es ta ( id : 23 ) us co - on of ll 23 es .
en if is co - on is ed , it is ot ly ed to ts .
if an ed al es th ny al er an ne ly al to lf , he co - on ll ly be ed .
he ux of he em is at ly he ne od pe is ed , an d ss is he ly on or te ct on .
to ve t he co - at on om on to on it to ve se to at st is ry or ch od pe , on ge , if he al of ex ne od nd nt in he xt on .
co - ns ue to ng es ch od pe to ve ss t an ne ed od da nt in he xt on , t he co - on ll ot ad , en if it is ed ny t es .
in ur le , he ex ( id : 23 ) ed er of od te nd ts of a od pe is ow 23 it ut ng nd ve 23 th ng .
on
he st on nt in or of ng is at me ts of he nv nt re le , so it is os it ly us to ve me is ns to ng er an ng em ly ( e . g .
ey 23 ) .
is nt is ly ct nd is ne od on or ng a ng sm , ut it is nt om th e in ct ch es to ex co - ns to le ts of th e en ( id : 23 )
3t is ly es at t he sm an " se " en it as ed t he od et .
is on ty ( or an ty to ll en th e ch tt gs ve en ed ) is ed to ke ng ve nd so it st de he in ct .
us , it is le at me es of an sm ch re re tl y ly ed re ce al ls of he sm ' s st rs .
ey e .
on nd en j .
an
ne of ed ss
ns of es
re 23 : he on of he ve es of he ee le es of le .
re re 23 ms in ch on .
nd ch sm ms 23 ng ls ng ts me .
he al 23 es re ed by ng ch le at om th a ty of 23 or he ? le nd 23 or ch of he ng wo es .
a al pe , re , as ut en ns ly ed nd ut en ft to ng .
ce we un ut 23 ng ls or ch sm , re is a le ce at an sm ch as he ct ic on of en al ns ll rn he ct on of he ng en .
to te he xt on om he nt ne , we rm 23 gs .
he wo ts of a ng re nt ls ch re en at om om he nt on .
jj . y sm in he nt on at ed he od et as a ch er ty of ng ed as a nt .
he ty is al to 3+ 3n / oo , re n is he er of ng ls at in er he sm as ed he ct et .
so ms ch rn ly re 23 es as ly to be en as ts an ms ch er rn .
he le ng of ch ng is ed by ly ng a ss ( id : 23 ) er nt nd ng ll es om he st nt up to he ss ( id : 23 ) er nt , nd om he nd nt nd he ss - er nt .
ow ng an de on
. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .
~ o , s r _ _
- - - ,
. , _ . : . . , :
re 23 : he pe of t he ch ce in ch on es .
he al is ts ns of es nd so it ot ly ne - io al .
it ut rn ng , t he ch ce as a le ke of gh ss .
ne an ot do tt er t an om ch in ch a ce .
th in g , re is a ne of ed ss ro nd he ke .
is ne ds to es ch ow he ct on of al ns to be ed .
ey e .
on nd en j .
an
to ep he nt le , we ed by ng at ng as ly a om ch gh le ch gs .
en t re is a le od on an d ll er ns re ly ad a om ch is a le gy , ut or st ng ks re is re re an is nd he ng ss ou ld ke se of t he re to me in on od sw tc h ns .
re st ed ng es ld be ed in se es ( e . g rt , on , nd ms ( 23 ) ) .
ed , ng a ng re as an er op to de a ic ch an be ry ve 23 ) .
as nd as wn , ic ch is ly od at ng ce ut at on ( id : 23 ) rs ss om ly ed ts in he ch ce .
ng , on he er nd , is od at ca l , ic on .
en he wo es re ed , ey en rm ch er an it er ch ( id : 23 ) ue ne ( 23 ) .
us , ng a re ed ar ni ng re on ly ns he nt or he ce of he in ct .
or ty , we ed at he ng es on ly t he me es as he ic ch .
t is is ot ry or he rg nt .
ch ne ld ce he es of ge rs of po nt al ns nd he ng ld ll ve he ry th or he ic ch .
in is mo re al se , ny an pt to it ac ed cs ld un to a re al d ty : to ow ow to ge he pe in er to te he ed cs of he ph ty pe it is ry to rt he or ( id : 23 ) rd on at ps om es , ia he es of ve op nt nd ng , to ed ty es .
t is is ly a ry ed , on - ar , ic on nd so it is ry ar d to te ow to ge t he es to ve es ed es in he es en en se ed es re wn .
we ve ed on he er on . en on nd ea ng , ut he me al rg me nt an be ed to he on ee n on nd ve nt .
ad of ly ng he pe , he es ld fy he ed ts of an ap ve ss nd ve it to is ss to ve he ed nd lt .
an er ng od el of is in d of ve p ss is ed by on er bu rg nd ll ( id : 23 ) aw ( 3j .
ad on ( 3j ed is ty pe of sm to co nt or he ce of ed er st cs th in a an rk .
re is ve re or es wh ch te he ve nt of in ul cs in se to he nt .
in he it , he ve al ss co es ed : he me ic ll nd to op ss of he al rs at ly on ( id : 23 ) ed it .
al ol of he ss is ed by al ic ro l .
us , we ve a sm ch as on es ws me ts of he pe at re ly ed ct ly ia an ve ss to me re ly ed .
ur on ts he ts of in nd on , nd es at ve es in he sm an be ry
ow ng an de on
ct ve in ng on .
he in on of he in ct is at it is ly ve in es at ld be rd to ch ut an pt ve ss to re he ce .
he le we ed in ch re is a ng le ke of ed ss is ly an me se , nd it is lt to ss he pe at al ry ch es ld it ay be ve if re re no ve es to re em .
ss le to ow me ht on is ue by ng er ns to xp re he pe of he ry ch ce or le al ks at do ot rn , ut ch mu ns ys in so ny ng ns at it is rd to ss ir al ce .
we t re de th a on : or io ts ho ve at ry ch es in ce ls ( en ut he ng ed by ve es ) he in ct is of le nt st , 23 ut or ts ho re us of he on at he al ch es re so ly ed , he in ct is an nt sm th at ws ve es in he sm to ly ve he ce in ch it es .
t is ch as ed by nt st - 23 om he al ci ( id : 23 ) ce on nd by ct 23 - 23 - k - 23 om he ce of va l ch .
we nk id ey , is ck , me hi ( id : 23 ) on , hn rd - th , id aw , nd sa nd in or ul
