ian ure els are tly the omi - ant que for ing the ion ion of den kov els for ech ion .
we how hat ter one ion on the mit set can be ved by ing ian ure els by eep ral rks hat ain any ers of res and a ery rge ber of ers .
ese rks are rst pre - ned as a lti - yer ive del of a dow of ral ure ors out ing use of any ive ion .
nce the ive pre - ing has ned the res , we orm ive ne - ing ing ion to ust the res tly to ake hem ter at ing a ity ion ver the tes of one den kov els .
ing a ure tor hat bes nts of the ral ion of cal - and ral ies hin a gle cal and .
sub - ord ior ies are ted ing ard ral rks for ach cal and and ese ies are ged to uce the nal ate of the ior ies ing her ard ral ork .
in ( 123 ) , the lit ral ext tem is ced ich ies the rap tem by ing , in the dle yer of the tem , its ver ime as ell as ver ncy nds ore the nal ger ral ork .
ard ral rks fer ral ial van -
dex tic ing , eep ief rks , ral
rks , one ion
a tic ech ion ( asr ) has ved gni -
tly ver the ast few des .
rly ems lly ted ted its or yes / no , eas ent sys - ems can do ite ell at ing one - ity , pon - ous ech .
a uge unt of ess has een ade in ing ord ion tes , but the ore tic ing has ned rly ble , ite any pts to lop ter ves .
a cal asr tem ses den kov els ( mms ) to del the ial ure of ech als , ith ach hmm ate ing a ure of ans to del a ral ion of the und ave .
the ost mon ral ion is a set of mel ncy ral nts ( ccs ) ved rom a dow of out 123 ms of ech .
the dow is lly ced by out 123 ms per ame , and ach ame of nts is ted ith ces and ces of ces ith rby mes .
one rch ion ves ing per tic mod - els hat ain any ers of res .
the ork in ( 123 ) pro - ses a cal ork ere ach yer is ned to ure a set of ive ure rks .
for ach ure , a zed tic ion is ted in ich hat ure is asy to ect .
in ( 123 ) , a tic ive del is ced ere the mic ure in the den cal act nce ace is sed to ize ong - pan ual nce oss tic its .
ard ral rks ave een sed in any asr ems ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
red by hts rom ( 123 ) , the rap ure ( 123 ) els a ole ond of ech
ght ( c ) 123 eee .
nal use of his ial
ver , ion to use his ial for any her ses ust be ned rom the eee by ing a est to ubs - eee . org .
the ors are ith the ity of nto , nto , on , 23s 123 , ada .
( e - ail : @cs . nto . du; @cs . nto . du; hin -
ges ver mms :
eir ion of the ior ies of hmm tes oes not ire led ons out the
hey low an asy way of ing rse res ,
ing oth ete and ous res .
hey use far ore of the ata to ain ach ter use the put on ach ing ase is ive to a rge ion of the hts .
the net of ach ght
in a ral ork ing ned by a ger ion of ing ses han ach ter in a gmm has een ked by her ces in ing .
ral rks ave lly een ned ely ely , eas mms are lly ned as ive els ( ven if ive ing is per - med ter in the ing ure ) .
ive ing ows the ata to ose any ore its of int on the ers ( see low ) , hus lly ing for the act hat ach ent of a rge gmm ust be ned on a ery all ion of the ata .
ccs , mms , and mms co - ved as a way of ing ech ion hen ers ere too low to ore ore lly ive hes .
ccs row way a lot of the ion in the und ave , but pre - rve ost of the ion red for ion .
by ing ral ces , ccs lly ome the ery ong nal nce ion of mms , ely hat ive mes are ent ven the den ate of the hmm .
the ral ces lso low nal nce ans to del the ong ral ces by ing ese lar ise ces to ual nts .
as we all see , a ier orm sed ank , ely ted on a mel - ale , ial ive to ccs for els hat can ily del ted res ( 123 ) .
mms are asy to t to ata ing the em thm , lly hen hey ave nal nce ces , and ith ugh nts hey can del any ion .
hey are , ver , lly ent at ing igh - nal ata hat has any ind of ial ure .
ted to eee ans .
on dio , ech , and age ing
ose , for ple , hat n tly ent rns can cur in one sub - and and m tly ent pat - rns can cur in her sub - and .
ose lso hat ich ern urs in ach sub - and is ely ent .
a gmm res n m nts to del his ure use ach ent ust ate oth sub - nds ( ach ece of ata has nly a gle ent use ) .
on the her and , a del hat ins the ata ing ple ses nly res n + m nts , ach of ich is cic to a lar sub - and .
his ial ncy of mms for ing ial ure ads to asr ems hat ave a ery rge ber of ans , ost of ich ust be ted rom a ery all ion of the ata .
in his per , we cus on a ore ful ive to mms for ing hmm tes to ure ors .
in lar , we der the use of lti - yer , eed - ard ral rks hat ake a dow of ure ors as put and uce ior ies of hmm tes as put .
ous ons of the ral ork ach ave sed the ion thm to ain the ral rks ely .
ese hes ded ely ith a end ted by ( 123 ) in ich ive ing is ced by ive ing .
ive ing is a ery ble ing to do hen ing ers hat are too low to arn a lly ood ive del of the ata .
as ive els get ter , ver , the age of ive ing ets 123 and is lly hed by a jor age : the unt of int hat the ata ses on the ers of a ive del is ual to the ber of its red to ify the ect els of the ing ses , eas the unt of int for a ive del is ual to the ber of its red to ify the put ors of the ing ses .
so hen the put ors ain uch ore ure han the els , a ive del can arn any ore ers ore it rts .
the net of ing a ive del is tly mag - ied hen ere is a rge ply of led ech in ion to the ing ata hat has een led by a ced hmm ent .
we do not ake use of led ata in his per , but it uld nly ove our lts ive to ely ive hes .
lly , any of the igh - vel res ned by the ive del may be ant for ing the red ons , ven ugh hey are ant for ing the put ata .
ver , his is a ice rth ing if ion is eap and ome of the igh - vel res are ery ood for ing een the ses of est .
the ain lty of our ork is to how hat we can eve tly ter one ion nce by pre - ing a lti - yer ral ork , one yer at a ime , as a ive del of the dow of ech nts .
his pre - ing kes it ier to ize eep ral rks hat ave any ers of den its and it lso ows
any ore ers to be sed ore ing urs .
the ive pre - ing tes any ers of ure ors hat ome ely ore lex .
a bse - ent ase of ive ne - ing , ing the ard ion thm , hen tly sts the res in ery yer to ake hem ore ful for ion .
the big age of his new way of ing lti - yer ral rks is hat the ted unt of ion in the els is not sed to ign res rom tch .
it is nly sed to nge the res ver so tly in der to ust the ass ies .
the res ves are red by ing a lti - yer ive del of the uch her ion in the dow of ech nts , and his oes not ire led ata .
our ach kes two jor ons out
ure of the hip een the put ata , ich in his ase is a dow of ech nts , and the els , ich are hmm tes ced by a ced ent ing a pre - ing asr del .
rst , we ume hat the ion we ant to orm is ore tly ted to the ing ses of the ata han to the ual nts of the ata elf .
ond , we ume hat a ood ure - tor ion of the ing ses can be red rom the put ata by ing its her - der cal ure .
it is asy to eam up ial sks in ich our two ons are ely ong , but a ely ive ine ing ach , uch as a ort tor ine ith a ial nel , uld ill ork ery ell .
ose , for ple , hat the bel ned to a dow of ech nts is ply the ity of two lar nts of the zed ata .
our ach uld ost nly ail use his ion is ely to be ved in the igh - vel res and , ven if it is ved , it ill be in a uch ore lex orm han the ple orm it had in the ata .
our aim is hat , use of the hly red way in ich ech is ted , his ial ask is tly hat asr is not ike , and ine ing ods hat do not ake use of the uge nce een ese two sks ave no ong erm ure in asr .
ing a yer ive del
ere are two ery ent ays to and our ap - ach to ing a lti - yer ive del of a dow of ech nts .
in the ted iew , we t a yer hat has ely any ers of ent les , but ses ght ing ong the her ers to eep the ber of ers der rol .
in the ted , rgy - sed iew , we t a ely ple ype of ing ule hat nly has one yer of ent les , but hen we eat the ies of the ent les as ata and t the ame ype of ule ain to his new ata .
his can be ted as any mes as we ike to arn as any ers of ent les as we ire .
the ted iew
3it is ble for a ely ned tem to uce ter tes of the ior ity tio of two ses han the tio of the ies of ing the ata rom a ure of two , ass - cic , ive els if ese els and eir ing ons are ect .
the ple ing ule sed in the ted iew is led a ted ann ine ( rbm ) .
it is a bi - ite aph in ich ble its hat ent ons
med , ahl and ton : tic ing ing eep ief rks
are ted to den its hat arn to ent res ing ted ted ons .
an rbm is ted in the nse hat ere are no ble - ble or den - den ons .
in the est ype of rbm , the ary rbm , oth the den and ble its are ary and tic .
to eal ith eal - ued put ata , we use a ian - lli rbm in ich the den its are ary but the put its are ear ith ian ise .
we ill ain the ian - lli rbm ter ter rst ing the ler ary
in a ary rbm , the hts on the ons and the ses of the ual its ene a ity ion ver the int tes of the ble and den its via an rgy ion .
the rgy of a int ion is :
e ( v , h| ) =
ere = ( w , b , a ) and wij nts the ric ion erm een ble nit i and den nit j ile bi and aj are eir ias rms .
v and h are the ers of ble and den its .
the ity hat an rbm gns to a ble tor v
p ( v| ) = ph ee ( v , h ) pu ph ee ( u , h )
nce ere are no den - den ons , the nal ion p ( h|v , ) is ial and is ven by :
p ( hj = 3|v , ) = ( aj +
ere ( x ) = ( 123 + ex ) no ble - ble ons , p ( v|h , ) is ial and is ven by :
rly , nce ere are the nal ion
p ( vi = 3|h , ) = ( bi +
act mum ood ing is ble in a rge rbm use it is lly ive to ute the ive of the log ity of the ing ata .
ver - ess , bms ave an ent ate ing oce - ure led ive nce ( 123 ) ich kes hem ble as ing cks for ing bns .
we dly ate ach ght , wij , ing the nce een two red , ise ons :
wij ata ion
the rst erm on the rhs of eq .
123 is the red ncy ith ich ble nit i and den nit j are on her hen the ble ors are les rom the ing set and the tes of the den its are ned by eq .
the ond erm is the red ncy ith ich i and j are oth on hen the ble ors are ons of the ata ors and the tes of the den its are ned by ing eq .
123 to the ons .
ons are ced by ing eq .
123 to the den tes hat ere
ted rom the ata hen ing the rst erm on the rhs of eq
the ive nce ing ule oes not low the mum ood ent .
ing why it rks at all is uch ier ing the ted iew , so we fer the ion to the ext ion .
ter ing the hts in an rbm ule , we use the tes of the den its , hen ven by eal ata , as the ata for ing her ule of the ame ind .
his ess can be ted to arn as any ers of res as we ire .
ain , ing why his edy ach rks is uch ier ing the ted iew .
for ian - lli 123 the rgy of a int con -
e ( v , h| ) =
nce ere are no ble - ble ons , the nal ion p ( v|h , ) is ial and is ven by :
p ( i|h , ) = n
ere n ( , v ) is a ian ith ean and nce v .
art rom ese ces , the nce and ing les for a ian - lli rbm are the ame as for a ary rbm , ugh the ing ate eds to be ler .
the ted iew
in the ted iew , it is asy to say hat we do , but ard to ify it .
in the ive ted iew , the ing thm is ore ted to ain , but uch ier to
a lti - yer oid ief net sed of tic ary its .
der a oid ief net ( 123 ) hat sts of ple ers of ary tic its as own in ure 123
the her den ers ent ary res and the bot - tom , ble , yer nts a ary ata tor ( we ill
3to eep the ion ple , we ume hat the ian ise vel of all the ble its is xed at 123
we lso ize the put ata to ave a xed nce of 123 for ach ent ver the ole ing set .
ted to eee ans .
on dio , ech , and age ing
123 ) ing ith ied hts : der a oid ief net ith an ite ber of ers and ith ied ric hts een ers as own in ure 123
in his net , the ior in the rst den yer is ial : the den its are ent ven the tes of the ble its .
his urs use the ons ted by the ior ing rom all of the ers ove tly cel the nti - ons in the ood erm ing rom the yer low ( 123 ) .
ver , the ial ior can be ted by ply ing the ble tor by the sed ght rix and hen ing the tic ion to ach ent :
j 3|v , w ) = ( b ( 123 )
ice hat his ple ion tes the zed uct of the ior and the ood rms , not the ood erm , ich is bly ore ted .
how how to dle eal - ued ata ter ) .
ing ata rom the del is asy .
rst , ary tes are sen for the top yer of den its ing eir ses to ine the log dds of ing 123 or 123
ven the ary tes of the its in yer k , ary tes are sen in lel for all of the its in yer k 123 by ing the tic oid 123 to the tal put ved rom ion ( x ) = ( 123 + ex ) the yer ove lus the its own ias :
3|h ( k ) , w ( k ) ) = ( b ( 123 )
ere h ( k ) is the tor of ary tes for yer k and h ( k ) is its jth ent .
w ( k ) is the rix of hts rom yer k to yer k 123 , w ( k ) the ias of nit j in yer k .
the tor of tes of the ble its , v , is lso led h ( 123 ) .
is an ent of hat rix , and b ( k )
now der the lem of ing the hts on the top - own ons so hat the del is ore ely to gen - ate the ary ing ata on its ble its .
ing ent ent in the ted log ity of ing the ing ata is ery ple if we can get sed les of the den tes rom eir ior ion ven an ved ata tor :
ere the gle ets ote an ion ver the ing ata .
if we ant to ure hat ery ght ate ses the log ity of the ata , we eed to use a ery all ing ate and we eed to age ver any les rom the ior .
in ice , it is uch ore ent to use a ger ing ate on all ini - hes of the ata .
ely , ing sed les rom the nen - lly rge ior ars to be ble for all but the est els . 123 der , for ple , the ior in the rst den yer .
his ior is the zed uct of a ted , non - ial ior ted by the ers ove and a ted non - ial ood erm ted by the ved tes of the ble its .
hen ing ata rom the del , the its in the rst den yer are , by ion , lly ent ven the tes of the its in the yer ove .
hen ing the ior , ver , hey are not lly ent ven the tes of the its in the yer low , ven ith a orm ior , due to the non of ing way ( 123 ) .
ate les rom the ior can be ned by ing a low kov ain nte rlo hod ( 123 ) or a ast but ude ion ( 123 ) .
ere is , ver , one ery ial orm of oid ief net in ich ing rom the ior ion in ery den yer is ust as asy as ing ata rom the del .
in act , nce and ion are the ame ess , but ing in ite
3in his ect , ure els ear to be far ior .
the act ior ver the ure nts is asy to ute use it nly has as any rms as the ber of nts .
his nal ity , ver , mes at a ble ice : the ole ata tor ust be ted by a gle ent .
as we all see ter , it is ble to eve an lly ple ior lst ing ple ous ses .
an ite oid ief net ith ied hts .
ate ers ust ave the ame ber of its .
the ied hts ake nce uch ler in his net han in a ral oid ief net .
nce the ior has een led for the rst den yer , tly the ame ess can be sed for the ext den yer .
so nce is ely asy in his ial ind of ork .
ing is a tle ore ult use ery opy of the ied ght rix ets ent ves .
ver , we now in nce hat the ted ves ill be ero for ery igh vel ers .
his is use the tom - up nce ess is lly a kov ain hat lly ges to its ary ion in the her ers .
hen it is ing rom its ary ion , the ent hts are ect for ing the les , so , on age , ere is no ive .
hen the hts and ses are all , his kov ain ges dly and we can ate
med , ahl and ton : tic ing ing eep ief rks
ent ent in the log ood ite ell by ust ing the ves for the rst two ers ( 123 ) .
the ied hts ean hat the ess of ing h ( 123 ) rom h ( 123 ) is the ame as the ess of ing v rom h ( 123 ) .
tly , h ( 123 ) can be wed as a isy but sed ate of the ies for the ble its ted by h ( 123 ) .
rly h ( 123 ) can be wed as a isy ate of the ies for the its in the rst den yer ted by h ( 123 ) .
we can use ese two cts and ion 123 to get an sed ate of the sum of the ves for the rst two ers of hts .
his ves the ing ing ule ich is own as ive nce ( 123 ) :
j ( vi h ( 123 ) j i hh ( 123 )
) + h ( 123 )
ere the gle ets ote ons ver the ing ata ( or a ive ini - tch ) .
as the hts and ses row , it kes nse to add the ves for ore ers ( 123 ) and for ing lly ood ive els his is ial ( 123 ) .
for the ose of ing ble ure ors , ver , ven a her rly ned ive del is ood ugh , and the ing ule in ion 123 is ent ven hen the hts get ite rge .
the ate mum ood ves ced by his ing ule ome hly sed , but hey are eap to ute and hey lso ave ery low nce ( 123 ) ich is ant for ing a igh ing ate hen the ves are ted rom all ini - hes of ata .
ese ues are sed her in
123 ) ing ent hts in ach yer : now hat we ave ent nce and ing res for an ite oid ief net ith ied hts , the ext tep is to ake the ive del ore ful by ing ent hts in ent ers .
rst , we arn ith all of the ght ces ied her .
hen we tie the tom ght rix rom the her ces and eze the ues of its hts .
his zen rix is now led w ( 123 ) .
hen , ing all the ing ces ied her , we nue to arn the her ces , ing the red ate tor h ( 123 ) in ust the ame way as we sly ted v .
his ves rst ing h ( 123 ) rom v by ing ( w ( 123 ) ) t and hen ing h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) , and h ( 123 ) in a lar tom - up ner ing w or w t .
the nce for the her den ers ces sed les ven h ( 123 ) , but the ple nce hod no ger ves an tly sed ple for h ( 123 ) use the her ght ces are no ger ual to w ( 123 ) so hey no ger ate a ior hat tly els the ons in the ood erm .
ver , the ior for h ( 123 ) is ill ely ial and it can be ved hat if we nue to fer h ( 123 ) as if the her ces had not ged , hen ing ves a nal wer und on the log ity of the ing ata ( 123 ) 123
the oof mes hat ach yer of hts is ned by ing the mum ood ive , her han ing the ive nce
we can eat the ess of ing and ing the est opy of the tly ied ght ces as any mes as we ike , so we can arn as any ers of res as we ire .
hen we ave ned k ers of res , we are eft ith a ted ive del led a eep ief net ( dbn ) hat has k ent ght ces een the wer ers and an ite ber of her ers hat all use the k th ght rix or its ose .
we hen ply row way all ers ove the k th and add a nal max yer of bel its ing hmm tes .
we lso son the tic ion hat was sed to ify the ive ing , and we eat the ole tem as a ard , tic ral ork .
his ork is hen ely ne - ned by ing ion to ize the log ity of the ect hmm 123
for the max nal yer , the ity of bel l ven the eal - ued ons of the nal yer of res ( ich we all h ( k ) ven ugh hey are no ger ary led ues ) is ned to be
exp ( bl + pi h ( k ) pm exp ( bm + pi h ( k )
ere bl is the ias of the bel and wil is the ght rom den nit i in yer k to bel l .
the ive ing ust arn the hts rom the ast yer of res to the bel its , but it oes not eed to ate any new ure ors .
it ply ne - nes ing ure ors hat ere red by the sed pre - ing .
to del eal ues in the ble yer , we ply ace the ary nit by ear its ith ian ise hat has a nce of 123
his oes not nge p ( h ( 123 ) |v ) and the ion for ble nit i ven h ( 123 ) is a ian ith nit nce and ean i ven by :
i = b ( 123 )
his ype of ive pre - ing wed by imi - ive ne - ing has een sed lly for and - ten ter ion ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ity ion ( 123 ) , 123 - d ect ion ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ing oad aps rom red ial ges ( 123 ) , ion val ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and ine ion ( 123 ) .
as we all see , it is lso ery ood for one ion .
ing eep ief ets for one ion in der to ply bns ith xed put and put men - ity to one ion , we use a ext dow of n ive mes of ech nts to set the tes of the ble its of the est yer of the dbn .
nce it has een pre - ned as a ive del , the ing ard ral ork is ely ned to put a ity ion ver the ble els of the ral ame .
to ate one ces , the nce of ted
3in a ent use of the ect ogy , we mes use dbn to fer to a ard ral ork hat was zed ing a ely ned eep ief net , ven ugh the ard ral ork is rly ery ent rom a ief net .
ted to eee ans .
on dio , ech , and age ing
ity ons ver the ble els for ach ame is fed nto a ard rbi der .
tly ing , nce the hmm nts a ior ver tes , we uld ide out the ior rom the ior ion ver hmm tes ced by the dbn , ugh for our lar ask it ade no nce .
tal tup
mit pus
one ion nts ere med on the mit pus . 123 we sed the 123 ker ing set and re - ved all sa rds ( i . e . , cal ces for all ers in the ase ) nce hey uld ias the lts .
a ate ent set of 123 ers was sed for ing all of the eta ers , uch as the ber of ers and the ize of ach yer .
lts are ted ing the 123 - ker ore est set , ich des the ent set .
the ech was zed ing a 123 - ms ing dow ith a 123 - ms xed ame ate .
in ost of the nts , we ted the ech ing 3th - der mel ncy ral nts ( ccs ) and rgy , ong ith eir rst and ond ral ves .
for ome nts , we sed a ier - orm - sed ter - ank ith 123 nts ted on a mel - ale ( and rgy ) her ith eir rst and ond ral ves .
the ata ere zed so hat , ged ver the ing ses , ach ent or rst ive or ond ive had ero ean and nit nce .
we sed 123 get ass els ( i . e . , 123 tes for ach one of the 123 nes ) .
ter ing , the 123 one ses ere ped to a set of 123 ses as in ( 123 ) for ing .
all of our nts sed a ram age del ver nes , ted rom the
nal tup
ing bns of the zes sed in his per is ite com - lly ive .
ing was ted by ing ics ors , in lar pus in a dia sla 123 tem , ing the mat ary ( 123 ) .
a gle ass ver the ire ing set ( an och ) for a del ith 123 den ers and 123 its per yer ook out 123 tes ing pre - ing of the ost yer and out 123 tes ing ne - ing the ole ork ith ion .
a gle gpu rns at 123 mes ter han a gle 123 ghz
for all nts , we xed the ers for the rbi der .
lly , we sed a ero ord ion bil - ity and a age del ale tor of 123 .
all bns ere pre - ned ith a xed ipe ing tic ent ent ith a ini - tch ize of 123 ing ses .
for ian - ary bms , we ran 123 chs ith a xed ing ate of 123 ile for ary - ary bms we sed 123 chs ith a ing ate of 123 .
the ory sed to ify the pre - ing thm as - mes hat hen the tes of the ble its are ted rom the red ary ies in the rst den yer , hey are ted lly .
to uce ise in the ing , we lly ted hem lly and sed the eal ues ( see ( 123 ) for ore ils ) .
for ne - ing , we sed tic ent ent ith the ame ini - tch ize as in pre - ing .
the ing ate ted at 123 .
at the end of ach och , if the ion ror on the ent set sed , the hts ere ned to eir ues at the ing of the och and the ing ate was ved .
his ued til the ing ate ell low
ing oth pre - ing and ne - ing , a all ght - ost of 123 was sed and the ing was ted by ing a tum of 123 ( ept for the rst och of ne - ing ich did not use tum ) .
( 123 ) ves a led ion of ght - ost and tum and ble ays to set hem .
ure 123 and ure 123 how the ect of ing the ize of ach den yer and the ber of den ers .
for ity we sed the ame ize for ery den yer in a ork .
for ese ons , the ber of put mes was xed at 123
ber of ers
one ror ate on the ent set as a ion of the ber of ers and ize of ach yer , ing 123 put mes .
the ain end ble in res 123 and 123 is hat ing ore den ers ves ter nce , ugh the ain hes as the ber of ers ses .
ing ore den its per yer lso ves nce hen the ber of den ers is ess han 123 , but ith ore den ers the ber of its has tle ect ded it is at ast 123
the age of ing a eep ure is ear if we der the est way to use a tal of 123 den its : it is ter to use two ers of 123 or our ers of 123 han one yer of 123
to net rom ing any den ers , it is ary to do ive pre - ing .
ith a gle den yer of 123 its , ive pre - ing ves a one ror ate of 23% and tly the ame ne - ing thm ted rom
med , ahl and ton : tic ing ing eep ief rks
ber of ers
ber of ers
one ror ate on the ore est set as a ion of the ber of ers and ize of ach yer , ing 123 put mes .
one ror ate on the ore est set as a ion of the ber of den ers ing mly zed and ned rks .
all dom hts ves 23% .
so ive pre - ing oes not elp .
ing a ond den yer ses a ger nal ase in the ber of ble ers han ing a ird den yer use the put and put ers are uch ler han the den ers and use ent den ers are lly ted .
his rge ase in ity kes the del far ore ble , but it lso kes it ert far ore ily .
ure 123 and ure 123 how hat for rks hat are not pre - ned ( but ill use rly ing ) , ese two cts tly cel out , eas for pre - ned rks ere is ess ing so tra ers elp .
ugh the age of pre - ing is not as rge as for ome her sks ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , it is ill red to ain an age rom ing tra den ers .
the ent set is ved ing 123 , 123 , or 123 mes and his is rue ver the ber of den ers .
uch ler ( 123 mes ) and uch ger ( 123 mes ) ows ive tly rse nce .
the nge rom 3ms to 3ms ers the age ize of nes or les .
ler put ows iss ant ive ion in the ext , ile rks ith ger ows are bly ing ted by the ost rom the ter of the dow .
the rap ( 123 ) ure lly ses 123 ond ong ows , but it tes ate rks to del ent rts of the rum ich ies the ing ask .
ger ows uld bly ork ter ing one ets ich ide the ork ith ore ion out the ext and ake the ral mes ore ant .
ber of ers
ber of ers
one ror ate on the ent set as a ion of the ber of den ers ing mly zed and ned rks .
one ror ate on the ent set as a ion of the ber of ers , ing 123 den its per yer .
ing the ber of den its per yer to 123 and ing the ber of mes in the put dow ( res 123 and 123 and lso 123 and 123 ) ows hat the est nce on
nce all but the put yer hts are pre - ned , it uld be ful to uce a eck at the ast yer
ted to eee ans .
on dio , ech , and age ing
ber of ers
ber of ers
one ror ate on the ore est set as a ion of the ber of ers , ing 123 den its per yer .
ext dow of ter ank nts as put res to the dbn .
one ror tes as a ion of the ber of ers , ing a
of the dbn to bat ing by ing the ber of hts hat are not pre - ned .
a eck yer wed by a max is tly ent to ing a ted put ode for ach ass and hen ing the ass ies nal to the ted red nce een the ode for a ass and the ity ern in the eck yer ( 123 ) .
ure 123 ows hat ing a eck yer oes not lly ove per for a cal ork ith 123 den ers of 123 its and an put dow of 123 mes of
the ect of the ize of the eck on the one ror ate for a cal ork ith 123 put mes and 123 den ers of 123 its per yer ( ept for the ast den yer ) .
in all of the ous nts ccs ere sed as the put ion .
ccs mpt to uce the ity of the put by ing ons hat are ant for ion and oon - ing the zer ith a est - zed put ion hat to ake ion asy .
ith a ore ful ing ure , ter ion nce can be ved
by ing a ess pre - sed put ion ing of a rge ber of ter - ank nts ted ith ral ces and ces of ces .
ure 123 ows hat a dbn is ble of ing ood use of the ore led ion ble in his ger put ion .
for the dbn tem hat med est on the ent set , the one ror ate on the mit ore est set was 23% .
ted lts on mit ore est set
tic tal els ( 123 )
nal dom eld ( 123 )
rge - gin gmm ( 123 )
ted nal dom lds ( 123 )
ent ral ets ( 123 )
ian one hmm ( 123 )
one tms ( 123 )
ous ers ( 123 )
one mms ely ned w / mmi ( 123 ) one eep ief rks ( bns ) ( his ork )
ble i res the est ing dbn del ith
sly ted lts on the mit ore est set 123
ons and ure ork
so far as we now , the ork ted in his per was the rst ion to tic ing of ral rks in ich ple ers of res are ely pre - ned .
nce hen , our ach has een ded to tly del the nce ure of the put res ( 123 ) .
it has een lso sed to tly ain the tic and age els ing the ull nce her han a cal dow of mes
3in ( 123 ) a per of 23% is ted on the ete est set of mit .
the ech its sed are not the ame as the ard mit ons and eir hod uld ery bly ive a rse ult ing the ard
med , ahl and ton : tic ing ing eep ief rks
it has een lso ied to a rge ary ask ( 123 ) ere the ing gmm ach ses a ery rge ber of nts .
in his ter ask it ves a ery rge age ive to the gmm .
we are tly ing ves put ons hat low eep ral rks to see ore of the ant ion in the und - ave , uch as ery ise nci - ces of set mes in ent ncy nds .
we are lso ing ays of ing ent ral rks to tly ase the unt of led ion out the ast hat can be ied ard to elp in the ion of the
we ank jim ass , ohn dle , li eng and ald enn for ful ons and two ous ers for ing the per .
the rch was ded by a ift rom oft rch and by nts rom the ral ces and ing rch cil of ada and the ian ute for ced rch .
