eep and ent ral rks ( nns and nns ely ) are ful mod - els hat ere red to be ost pos - ble to ain ing tic ent de - ent ith tum .
in his per , we how hat hen tic ent ent ith tum ses a ell - ned dom ion and a lar ype of wly ing ule for the tum pa - ter , it can ain oth nns and nns ( on ets ith ong - erm ies ) to els of nce hat ere sly ble nly ith ian - ree iza - ion .
we nd hat oth the ion and the tum are ial nce rly zed rks not be ned ith tum and ell - zed rks per - orm dly rse hen the tum is ent or rly ned .
our ess ing ese els sts hat ous pts to ain eep and re - ent ral rks rom dom ial - ons ave ely led due to oor ini - ion mes .
ore , lly ned tum ods uce for ing ith the ure ues in eep and cur - ent ork ing ves out the eed for ted ond - der ods .
eep and ent ral rks ( nns and nns , ely ) are ful els hat eve igh nce on ult ern ion rob - ems in ion , and ech ( sky et al . , 23; ton et al . , 23; ahl et al . , 23; ves , 123 ) .
ugh eir nal wer is ing , the lty of ing nns has ted eir
ngs of the 123 th nal nce on ma - ine ing , nta , gia , usa , 123
&cp ume 123
ght 123 by the hor ( s ) .
ead use til rly tly .
nns ame the ect of wed ion ing the ork of ton et al .
( 123 ) who ced the dea of edy ise pre - ing .
his ach has nce hed nto a ily of ods ( gio et al . , 123 ) , all of ich ain the ers of the dnn in a nce ing an ary ive and hen ne - une the ire ork ith ard ion ods uch as tic ent ent ( sgd ) .
ore tly , ens ( 123 ) ted ble ion by ing hat a ype of ted - ton hod led ian - ree ion ( hf ) is apa - ble of ing nns rom ain dom iza - ons out the use of pre - ing , and can eve wer ors for the ous uto - ing sks con - red by ton & nov ( 123 ) .
ent ral rks ( nns ) , the ral ana - gue of nns , are hly ive nce mod - els hat can del lex nce ips .
hey can be wed as ery eep ral rks hat ave a yer for ach ime - tep ith ame - ter ing oss the ers and , for his son , hey are red to be ven der to ain han nns .
tly , ens & ver ( 123 ) wed hat the hf hod of ens ( 123 ) uld ely ain nns on ial ems hat bit ery ong - nge ies ( ter & ber , 123 ) .
out ing to ial pes of ory its , ese ems ere red to be ssi - bly ult for rst - der ion ods due to the ell own ing ent lem ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
ver et al .
( 123 ) and ter lov et al .
( 123 ) hen ied hf to ain nns to per - orm ter - vel age ing and ved
tly , ral lts ave red to nge the nly eld ief hat ler rst - der ods are ble of ing eep els rom dom ons .
the ork of rot & ben - gio ( 123 ) , med et al .
( 123 ) , and sky et al .
( 123 ) ted tle lty ing ral rks ith ths up to 123 rom ain ell - sen
ork was one ile the hor was at the ity
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
dom ons .
bly , lle & han ( 123 ) sed the dom ion of rot & ben - gio ( 123 ) and sgd to ain the 123 - yer der of ton & nov ( 123 ) , and ere ble to ass the lts ted by ton & tdi - nov ( 123 ) .
ile ese lts ill all ort of ose ted in ens ( 123 ) for the ame sks , hey ate hat ing eep rks is not rly as ard as was sly ved .
the rst ion of his per is a uch ore ugh ion of the lty of ing eep and ral rks han has een sly one .
in lar , we udy the ess of sgd hen ned ith ell - sen ion mes and ous rms of tum - sed ion .
we how hat ile a ite nce gap ems to ist een ain sgd and hf on ain eep and ral ing ems , his gap can be imi - ted or rly ted ( ing on the rob - lem ) by ful use of cal tum ods or ovs ted ent .
in lar , we how how ain lly ned les for the ant of tum , ich are red by var - ous cal nce - ate ems ( rov , 23; 123 ) , uce lts hat ven ass ose re - ted by ens ( 123 ) on ain eep - der ing sks .
for the ong - erm ncy rnn sks ned in ens & ver ( 123 ) , ich rst red in ter & ber ( 123 ) , we ain lts hat all ust ort of ose ted in hat ork , ere a bly ore lex ap - ach was sed .
our lts are rly ing ven hat mo - tum and its use hin ral ork iza - ion has een ied ely ore , uch as in the ork of orr ( 123 ) , and it was ver und to ave uch an ant ole in eep ing .
one ion is hat ous cal ses and cal nch - ing sed on cal nce in the tic ing , ich is ore of an ion lem han an ion one ( tou & cun , 123 ) .
in eep ing ems his nal ase of ing is not rly as ong or ant as the ial ent ase ( ken & ody , 123 ) , ere a ter ar - ent can be ade for the ial cts of mo -
in ion to the ate cus on ely cal nce tes , we eve hat the use of rly de - ned ard dom ons , uch as ose in ton & nov ( 123 ) , and mal eta - ter les ( for the tum con - ant in lar ) has red the ery of the rue ess of rst - der tum ods in eep ing .
we lly oid oth of ese pit - lls in our nts and ide a ple to der - and and asy to use ork for eep ing hat
is gly ive and can be lly ned ith ues uch as ose in iko et al .
( 123 ) .
we ill lso uss the nks een cal mo - tum and ovs ted ent hod ( ich has een the ect of uch ent udy in vex ion ory ) , ing hat the ter can be wed as a ple ion of the mer ich ses ity , and can mes ide a nct ent in nce we ted in our nts .
we orm a cal sis ich kes ear the ise nce in cal be - ior of ese two hms .
lly , we how how hf oys hat can be wed as a ype of mo - tum ugh its use of ial ons to ate ent hat are ted rom the up - ate at the ous ime - tep .
we use his rty to lop a ore tum - ike ion of hf ich nes ome of the ges of oth ods to her ove on the lts of ens ( 123 ) .
tum and ovs
the tum hod ( yak , 123 ) , ich we fer to as cal tum ( cm ) , is a que for ac - ing ent ent hat tes a ity tor in ons of ent ion in the ob - ive oss ons .
ven an ive ion f ( ) to be zed , cal tum is ven by :
123 = vt " rf ( t ) 123 = t + 123
ere " > 123 is the ing ate , 123 ( 123 , 123 ) is the mo - tum ent , and rf ( t ) is the ent at t .
nce ons d of low - ure ave , by eni - ion , wer cal nge in eir ate of ion ( i . e . , >rf ) , hey ill end to ist oss ons and be ied by cm .
ond - der ods lso am - ify eps in low - ure ons , but ead of ing ges hey ght the ate ong ach gen - ion of the ure rix by the in - rse of the ted ure .
and ust as ond - der ods joy ved cal nce tes , yak ( 123 ) wed hat cm can bly cel - ate nce to a cal mum , ing pr - mes wer ons han est ent to ach the ame vel of acy , ere r is the ion ber of the ure at the mum and is set
to ( pr 123 ) / ( pr + 123 ) .
ovs ted ent ( brv .
ag; nes - rov , 123 ) has een the ect of uch ent at - ion by the vex ion ity ( e . g . , ter et al . , 23; lan , 123 ) .
ike tum , nag is a rst - der ion hod ith ter nce ate tee han ent ent in
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
in lar , for ral oth ( non - gly ) vex ons and a tic ent , nag ves a bal nce ate of o ( 123 / t 123 ) ( sus the o ( 123 / t ) of ent ent ) , ith ant nal to the itz ent of the ive and the red ean nce to the ion .
ile nag is not lly ght of as a ype of tum , it eed rns out to be ely re - ted to cal tum , ing nly in the pre - ise ate of the ity tor v , the nce of ich we ill uss in the ext sub - ion .
eci - lly , as own in the dix , the nag ate may be ten as :
123 = vt " rf ( t + vt ) 123 = t + 123
ile the cal nce ies for oth eth - ods ely on ess ent tes ( i . e . , not tic ) , ith ome are in ice hey are oth ble to the tic ing .
ver , the the - ory cts hat any ges in rms of ymp - tic cal ate of nce ill be ost ( orr , 23; nck et al . , 123 ) , a ult lso med in ex - nts ( cun et al . , 123 ) .
for ese ons , est in tum ods hed ter hey had ved ial ion in the 23s .
and be - use of his ent ity ith tic ion , ome ors ven age ing mo - tum or lay its ial ges ( cun et al . , 123 ) .
ver , ile cal nce is all hat ers in rms of tic nce tes ( and on cer - ain ery ple / low ral ork ion ems it may ven ate the tal ime ) , in ice , the ent ase of nce ( ken & ody , 123 ) , ich urs ore ne lo - cal nce ets in , ems to ter a lot ore for ing eep ral rks .
in his ent ase of ing , ons of ion in the ob - ive end to ist oss any ive ent tes and are not ely ped by ise .
ugh the ent ase of ing is ost no - ble in ing eep ing els , it is ill no - ble in vex ves .
the nce ate of tic ent ent on oth vex unc - ons is ven by o ( l / t + / pt ) , ere is the nce in the ent ate and l is the lip - its ent of rf .
in ast , the nce ate of an ted ent hod of lan ( 123 ) ( ich is ted to but ent rom nag , in hat it nes rov yle tum ith ual ver - ing ) is o ( l / t 123 + / pt ) .
hus , for vex jec - ves , tum - sed ods ill orm sgd in the rly or ent ges of the ion ere l / t is the ant erm .
ver , the two ods ill be lly ive ing the nal ges
rov ted ent
( top ) cal tum ( tom ) nes -
of the ion ere / pt is the ant erm ( i . e . , hen the ion lem les an es -
the hip een cm and nag
rom eqs .
123 - 123 we see hat oth cm and nag ute the new ity by ing a ent - sed rec - ion to the ous ity tor ( ich is yed ) , and hen add the ity to t .
but ile cm com - tes the ent ate rom the ent ion t , nag rst rms a ial ate to t , put - ing t + vt , ich is lar to 123 , but ing the as yet own ion .
his ign - ing dif - nce ems to low nag to nge v in a ker and ore ive way , ing it ave ore sta - bly han cm in any ons , lly for her ues of .
eed , der the ion ere the ion of vt lts in an ate ble ase in the ive f .
the ent ion to the ve - ity vt is ted at ion t + vt and if vt is eed a oor ate , hen rf ( t + vt ) ill int ack rds t ore gly han rf ( t ) oes , hus ing a ger and ore ely ion to vt han cm .
123 for a ram ich tes his non lly .
ile ach ion of nag may nly be tly ore ive han cm at ing a rge and ate ity , his nce in ess may und as the al - hms ate .
to ate his ing , we ied oth nag and cm to a two - nal ong tic ive , oth ith the ame mo - tum and ing ate nts ( see g .
123 in the dix ) .
ile the ion ath ken by cm its rge ons ong the igh - ure ver - cal ion , nag is ble to oid ese ons ost ely , ing the ion hat it is uch ore ive han cm at ing ver the rse of ple ons , hus ing nag ore ant of rge ues of red to cm .
in der to ake ese ons ore ous and
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
elp ify ely the way in ich cm and nag ier , we zed the ior of ach hod hen ied to a ive ite tic ive q ( x ) = >ax / 123 + b>x .
we can ink of cm and nag as ing tly ver the ent ndi - ons of a .
nag tes ong any one of ese ons tly to cm , ept ith an ive lue of hat is ven by ( 123 " ) , ere is the
q ( x ) = q ( u>y ) = >du u>y / 123 + u>y = p as p ( y ) =pn
the rst tep of his ent is to ize q ( x ) in rms of the nts of x der the sis of ors of a .
ote hat nce a = >du for a nal d and mal u ( as a is ric ) , we can ize q ( x ) by the rix orm u and ize y = u x ing the ive p ( y ) >dy / 123 + c>y , ere c = u b .
we can her ite 123 ( p ) i ( ( y ) i ) , ere ( p ) i ( t ) = 123 / 23+ ( c ) it and i > 123 are the nal ies of d ( and hus the ues of a ) and ond to the rva - ure ong the ted tor ons .
as own in the dix ( ion 123 ) , oth cm and nag , ing rst - der ods , are ant to ese nds of ons by mal ons uch as u .
hus hen ing the ior of her thm ied to q ( x ) , we can in - ead ply hem to p ( y ) , and orm the ing nce of tes ack to the ult iza - ion ( via ion by 123 = u> ) .
rem 123 .
let p ( y ) = pn
123 ( p ) i ( ( y ) i ) uch hat ( p ) i ( t ) = 123 / 123 + cit .
let " be ary and xed .
ote by cm x ( , p , y , v ) and cm v ( , p , y , v ) the pa - ter tor and the ity tor ely , ob - ned by ing one tep of cm ( i . e . , eq .
123 and hen eq .
123 ) to the ion p at int y , ith ity v , tum ent , and ing ate " .
ene n agx and n agv sly .
hen the ing lds for z 123 ( x , v ) :
cm z ( , ( p ) 123 , ( y ) 123 , ( v ) 123 )
cm z ( , ( p ) n , ( y ) n , ( v ) n ) cm z ( ( 123 123 " ) , ( p ) 123 , ( y ) 123 , ( v ) 123 )
cm z ( , p , y , v ) 123 n agz ( , p , y , v ) 123
cm z ( ( 123 n " ) , ( p ) n , ( y ) n , ( v ) n )
see the dix .
the rem has ral ons .
rst , cm and nag ome ent hen " is all ( hen " 123 for ery lue of a ) , so nag and cm are nct nly hen " is bly rge .
hen " is ely rge , nag ses ler ive tum for the igh - ure gen - ons , ich nts
ons ( or nce ) and hus ows the use of a ger han is ble ith cm for a ven " .
eep ers
the aim of our nts is ree - old .
rst , to ate the ble nce of tic tum ods on eep ers ing rom ell - ned dom ns; ond , to ore the nce and ect of the ule for the tum ter ing an mal xed ice of the ing ate " ; and ird , to are the nce of nag sus cm .
for our nts ith eed - ard ets , we fo - sed on ing the ree eep der rob - ems bed in ton & nov ( 123 ) ( see sec .
a . 123 for ils ) .
the ask of the ral net - ork der is to uct its own put sub - ect to the int hat one of its den ers is of low - ion .
his eck yer cts as a low - nal ode for the nal put , lar to her ity ion ues ike nci - ple ent sis ( pca ) .
ese ers are ome of the est ral rks ith pub - hed lts , ing een 123 and 123 ers , and ave ome a ard ing lem ( e . g . , ens , 23; rot & gio , 23; lle & er - han , 23; iko et al . , 123 ) .
see the dix for
use the cus of his udy is on ion , we nly ort ing ors in our nts .
est ror nds gly on the unt of ing in ese ems , ich in urn nds on the ype and unt of ion sed ing ing .
ile ion is an sue of tal nce hen de - ing ems of cal ity , it is ide the ope of our ion .
and ile it uld be ob - ted hat the ins ved ing ter iza - ion ods are nly due to ore act ing of the ing set in a ner hat oes not ize , his is ply not the ase in ese ems , ere der - ned ons are own to orm rly on oth the ing and est ets ( ing ) .
the rks we ned sed the ard oid ity and ere zed ing the rse ini - ion que ( si ) of ens ( 123 ) hat is bed in sec .
ach ial sts of 123 , 123 ter tes on hes of ize 123
no reg - ion is sed .
the ule for was ven by the ing ula :
t = min ( 123 123 ( bt / 123 ) , max )
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
his ule was mo - ted by rov ( 123 ) who tes ing hat nts to t = 123 123 / ( t + 123 ) ter ome ion
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
23n 23n 23n 23n
23m 23m 23m 23m gdc
ble 123
the ble rts the red ors on the ems for ach ion of max and a tum ype ( nag , cm ) .
hen max is 123 the ice of nag vs cm is of no nce so the ing ors are ted in a gle umn .
for ach ice of max , the est - ing ing ate is sed .
the umn gdc sts the lts of lle & han ( 123 ) who sed 23m sgd eps and anh rks .
the umn hf sts the lts of hf out 123 ion , as bed in sec .
23; and the umn hf sts the lts of ens ( 123 ) .
ble 123
the ect of low - tum ing for nag .
the ble ows the ing red ors ore and ter the tum ent is ced .
ing the pri - ary ( ent ) ase of ing we sed the mal tum and ing tes .
( see dix ) , and by rov ( 123 ) who tes a ant t hat nds on ( lly ) the con - ion ber .
the ant t ves ial nce on gly vex ons , ile the 123 123 / ( t + 123 ) ule is ate hen the ion is not gly vex .
the ule of eq .
123 nds ese als .
for ach ice of max , we ort the ing ate hat ved the est ing ror .
ven the ule for , the ing ate " was sen rom ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) in der to eve the est nal ror ing ror ter our xed ber of tes .
ble 123 zes the lts of ese nts .
it ows hat nag ves the est hed lts on his set of ems , ing ose of it lso ows hat ger ues of max end to eve ter nce and hat nag lly rms cm , lly hen max is 123 and 123 .
ost ing and tly , the lts ate hat nag can eve lts hat are ble ith ome of the est hf lts for ing eep ers .
ote hat the evi - sly hed lts on hf sed 123 ion , so hey not be tly red .
ver , the ble lso des nts we med ith an ved ion of hf ( see sec .
123 ) ere ght cay was ved rds the end of ing .
we und it ial to uce to 123 ( ess is 123 , in ich ase it is ged ) ing the nal 123 ter tes of the ion out ing the ing ate , as own in ble 123
ars hat ing the tum ent al - ows for ner nce to ake ace eas oth - ise the rly ive ure of cm or nag
uld ent his .
his ase ift een pti - ion hat ors ast ted ion ong the ror ace ( the ent ase ) wed by ore ful ion - as - ion ase ems sis - ent ith the ure ted by ken & ody ( 123 ) .
ver , ile lly it is the ond ase ich ust lly ate ion ime , in ice it ems hat for per rks in lar , the rst ase tes all uta - ion ime as ong as the ond ase is cut o ore the ing ial ins ome her gni - ant or ely ted by ing ( or oth ) .
it may be ing hen to use wer ues of rom the set , or to uce it ely hen ess in ing the ror ars to low own .
ver , in our nts we und hat ing his was tri - tal in rms of the nal ors we uld eve , and hat ite ing to not ake uch ess , or ven ing tly non - nic , the op - ers ere ing ing tly ful ver ese ded ods of ime at her ues of .
a ive ion as to why we see his be - ior is as ows .
ile a rge lue of ows the tum ods to ake ful ess ong wly - ing ons of low - ure , his may not ely ult in a ant ion in er - ror , due to the ure of ese ods to rge in the ore ent igh - ure ons ( ich is lly ard hen is rge ) .
ess , his ess in low - ure ons kes the miz - ers to new ons of the ter ace hat are zed by ser ity to the mum ( in the ase of a vex ive ) , or ust her - ity cal mia ( in the ase of non - vex iza - ion ) .
hus , ile it is ant to opt a ore ful eme hat ows ne nce to ake ace ong the igh - ure ons , his ust be one ith are .
ing and ing to his ne nce ime too rly may ake it ult for the ion to ake ant ess ong the low - ure ons , nce out the net of tum - sed ion , rst - der ods are sly bad at his ( ich is hat ted the use of ond - der ods ike hf for eep arn -
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
si ale ier
ble 123
the ble rts the ing red ror hat is ned by ing the ale of the ion .
dom ons
the lts in the ous ion ere ned ith ard tic oid ral rks hat ere zed ith the rse ion que ( si ) bed in ens ( 123 ) .
in his eme , ach ran - dom nit is ted to 123 mly sen its in the ous yer , ose hts are awn rom a nit ian , and the ses are set to ero .
the in - ive ion is hat the tal unt of put to ach nit ill not end on the ize of the evi - ous yer and nce hey ill not as ily ate .
ile , use the uts to ach nit are not all mly ted nds of the uts of any 23s or 23s of its in the ous yer , hey ill end to be ely ore rse in eir nse to uts .
hen ing anh its , we orm the hts to ate oid its by ing the ses to 123 and ing the hts by 123 .
we ted the nce of the ion as a ion of the ale ant sed in si ( ich lts to 123 for oid its ) .
we und hat si rks bly ell if it is led by a tor of 123 , but ads to ble ( but not ere ) low own hen led by a tor of 123
hen we sed the tor 123 / 123 or 123 we did not eve ble lts .
ent ral rks
cho - ate rks ( sns ) is a ily of nns ith an lly ple ing hod : eir den - to - put ons are ned rom ata , but eir re - ent ons are xed to a dom raw rom a cic ion and are not ned .
ite eir ity , sns ith any den its ( or ith its ith cit ral ion , ike the stm ) ave ved igh nce on sks ith ong nge ies ( ? ) .
in his ion , we ves - ate the ess of tum - sed ods ith esn - red ion at ing nns ith nal ize and ard ( i . e . , non - ing ) ons .
we nd hat tum - ted sgd can lly ain uch nns on ous ial ets ing ble ong - nge ral ies .
his is ted use nns ere ved to be ost ble to lly ain on uch ets ith rst - der ods , due to var - ous ies uch as ing / ing nts ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
ile we und hat the use of tum tly ved nce and ess , we ned ial lts ven ith ard sgd , ded hat the ing ate was set low ugh .
ral ius of 123
23n ( 123 , 123 ) 23n ( 123 , 123 ) 23n ( 123 , 123 )
age of uts
ble 123
the rnn ion sed in the nts .
the ale of the vis - hid ons is lem ent .
ach ask ved ing the ers of a ran - mly zed rnn ith 123 ard anh den its ( the ame del sed by ens & ver ( 123 ) ) .
the sks ere ned by ter & ber ( 123 ) , and are red to as ing ems .
see sec .
a . 123 of the dix for ils .
esn - sed ion
as ued by ger & aas ( 123 ) , the ral ra - ius of the den - to - den rix has a und ect on the ics of the nns den ate ( ith a anh ity ) .
hen it is ler han 123 , the ics ill ave a ncy to kly for - get ver put nal hey may ave een ex - sed to .
hen it is uch ger han 123 , the dy - ics ome ory and tic , ing it to ate ses hat are ied for ent put ies .
ile his ows ion to be ned ver any ime eps , it can lso ead to ere lod - ing nts hat ake ent - sed ing uch ore ult .
ver , hen the ral ius is nly tly ter han 123 , the ics ain os - ory and tic ile the ent are no ger ing ( and if hey do ode , hen nly tly so ) , so ing may be ble ith a ral ra - ius of his der .
his sts hat a ral ius of und 123 may be ive .
to eve ust lts , we lso und it is ial to lly set the ial ale of the put - to - den ons .
hen ing nns to lve ose sks hat ess any dom and ant tor in - uts , we und hat ing the ale of ese nec - ons set too igh at the art led to ant rma - ion in the den ate ing too ily ten by the any ant als , ich ely led the zer to rge rds an ely oor cal mum ere ful ion was ver re - yed ver ong ces .
ely , we und hat if his ale was set too low , it led to tly wer ing .
ing ted ith ple les we und hat a ian raw ith a ard ion of 123 ved a ood nce een ese con - rns .
ver , ike the lue of 123 for the ral ius of the ics rix , ich ked ell on all sks , we und hat ood ces for ial ale of the put - to - den hts ded a lot on the lar ics of the lar ask ( uch
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
as its ity or the put nce ) .
eed , for sks hat do not ave any ant uts , a ger ale of the put - to - den hts ( ely , 123 ) ked ter , use the ned dis - age of rge put - to - den hts oes not ply .
see ble 123 for a ary of the ons sed in the nts .
lly , we und ing ( ean ion ) of oth the uts and the uts to be ant to bly lve all of the ing ems .
see the dix for ore ils .
tal lts
we ted nts to ine the e - acy of our ons , the ect of tum , and to are nag ith cm .
ery ing ial sed the ned ion , 123 , 123 ram - ter tes and on hes of 123 ces , and the ing ule for the tum co - ent : = 123 for the rst 123 ter , ter ich = 123 , ere 123 can ake the fol - ing ues ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for ach 123 , we use the lly est ing ate sen rom ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the lts are ted in ble 123 , ich are the av - age oss ver 123 ent dom eds .
ead of re - ing the oss ing zed ( ich is the red ror or oss opy ) , we use a ore ble ero - one oss , as is ard ice ith ese rob - ems .
for the bit ion , we ort the rac - ion of eps hat are ted tly .
and for the ion and the ion ems , we ort the ion of ses ere the rnn the ror in the nal put ion ded 123 .
our lts how hat ite the ble ong - nge ies ent in ing ata for ese ems , nns can be lly and tly ned to lve hem , ugh the use of the ial - ion sed in sec .
123 , tum of the nag ype , a rge 123 , and a rly all ing ate ( as red ith ard rks ) .
our lts lso est hat ith ger ues of 123 eve bet - ter lts ith nag but not ith cm , bly due to ags nce of ger 23s ( as sed in sec
ugh we ere ble to eve gly ood ing nce on ese ems ing a suf - tly ong tum , the lts of ens & ver ( 123 ) ear to be ely ter and ore ust .
hey ved wer ror tes and eir ion was sen ith ess are , ugh the ons are in any ays lar to urs .
no - bly , ens & ver ( 123 ) ere ble to lve ese ems out ing , ile we had to use ing to lve the ion lem ( the her ems are ady red ) .
his sts hat the ion sed ere , her ith the hod of ens & ver ( 123 ) , uld eve
ven ter nce .
but the ain ent of ese lts is a ion of the ity of tum ods to ope ith ong - nge mpo - ral ncy ing sks to a vel ich ems ent for ost cal ses .
ver , our ach ems to be ore ant of ler ini - hes , and is bly ler han the tic - lar ion of hf sed in ens & ver ( 123 ) , ich sed a zed ate ing ech - que ose ets med tly ted to ing nns to lve ese nds of eme ral pen -
tum and hf
ted ton ods , hat ude the hf hod of ens ( 123 ) as a lar ple , ork by ing a cal tic del of the ive via the ear ate ent thm ( cg ) , ich is a rst - der hod .
ile hf , ike all ted - ton ods , kes eps ted ing lly ged lls to cg , it is lly ted ong at ast ome ons of wer cur - ure red to the ent .
it can ven be own ( ens & ver , 123 ) hat cg ill end to fa - vor nce to the act ion to the tic sub - lem rst ong her ure ons ( ith a ias rds ose ich are ore red her in eir ure - ars / ues ) .
ile cg tes ion as it tes ich ows it to be mal in a uch ger nse han any her rst - der hod ( ike nag ) , nce it is ted , his ion is ost .
hus , ard ted ton ods can be ght of as per - ing ion ich tes nce ( of the ent tic ) nly ver the ber of era - ons cg rms .
by ast , tum ods ist ion hat can orm new tes oss an ary ber of ons .
one key nce een ard ted new - ton ods and hf is the use of hot - ted lls to cg , ich use as eir ial ion the one und at the ous all to cg .
ile his ion was com - ted ing old ent and ure ion rom a ous int in ter ace and ssi - bly a ent set of ing ata , it may be ell - ged ong ain gen - ons of the new tic , ite ing ery rly ged ong ers ( aps rse han the ult ial ion of ~ 123 ) .
ver , to the ent to ich the new cal tic del les the old one , and in tic - lar in the ore ult to ize ons of low - ure ( ich ill bly be ore ely to per - ist oss rby ons in ter ace ) , the ous ion ill be a ble ing int to 123 , and may ven low for lly ing els of nce ong ain ons ich ist
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
add t = 123 mul t = 123
mem - 123 t = 123 mem - 123 t = 123
23m 23m 23m
ble 123
ach umn rts the ors ( ero - one es; sec .
123 ) on ent ems for ach ion of 123 and tum ype ( nag , cm ) , ged ver 123 ent dom eds .
the ses umn sts the ror ble by ing the put ses and ing the den ate .
his is the ror of an rnn hat led to ish uni - ion een its uts and ets .
for ach 123 , we sed the xed ing ate hat ave the est nce .
in the cal tic els oss any tes .
the ion een hf and tum ods can be ade ore ete by ing hat a gle tep of cg is ely a ent ate ken rom the ent int , lus the ous ate ied , ust as ith nag , and hat if cg ted ter ust 123 tep , hf mes ent to nag , ept hat it ses a ial ula sed on the ure rix for the ing ate ead of a xed ant .
the ost ive ons of hf ven loy a cay ant ( ens & ver , 123 ) ich cts sly to the tum ant .
hus , in his nse , the cg ons sed by hf low us to iew it as a rid of nag and an act ond - der hod , ith the ber of cg ons sed to ute ach ate ely ing as a ial een the two mes .
red by the ing ess of tum - sed ods for eep ing ems , we ted ith ing hf ave ven ore ike nag han it al - ady oes .
the ing ach med ris - gly ell ( see ble 123 ) .
for a ore led unt of ese nts , see sec .
a . 123 of the dix .
if wed on the sis of ach cg tep ( ead of ach ate to ers ) , hf can be ght of as a iar ype of rst - der hod ich rox - tes the ive as a ies of ics nly so hat it can ake use of the ful rst - der cg hod .
so art rom any ial net to bal nce rom its ncy to fer ain rec - ons of ent in ter ace ver ers , per - aps the ain cal net to ing hf ver a rst - der hod ike nag is its use of cg , ich , ile elf a rst - der hod , is ell own to ave gly mal nce ies for rat - ics , and can ake age of red ues to ate nce ( see ens & ver ( 123 ) for a led unt of his ell - own phe - non ) .
ver , it is own hat in the rst ase hat cg , hen run in tch ode , ill rge lly no ter han nag ( lso run in tch ode ) for ain lly ned ics ith ery nly ted ues / res .
hus it is rth ing her the ics ich ise ing the ion of ral rks by hf are uch hat cg has a nct age in ing
hem ver nag , or if hey are ser to the men - ned rst - ase les .
to ine his ion we ook a tic ted ing the dle of a cal run of hf on the ves set and red the nce ate of cg , zed rom ero , to nag ( lso zed rom ero ) .
ure 123 in the ap - dix nts the lts of his ent .
ile his ent tes ome ial ges to hf , the ess of the nce of nag and hf sts hat ese lts ght be ned by the ons ing the rea of ust in the ics be - ore any tra eed cks in , or ore tly , hat the ess of ion oes own ust ugh as cg tes to set the net of the ion
ens ( 123 ) and ens & ver ( 123 ) ted the ess of the hf hod as a ool for ing ons for ich evi - ous pts to ply ler rst - der ods had led .
ile ome ent ork ( lle & han , 23; rot & gio , 123 ) ted hat rst - der ods can lly eve ome ess on ese nds of ems hen sed in ion ith ood ons , eir lts ill ell ort of ose re - ted for hf .
in his per we ave ted his ure and ted ely hat a rge art of the ing nce gap hat is not sed by ing a ell - ned dom iza - ion is in act sed by ful use of tum - sed ion ( bly of the rov ype ) .
we wed hat ful ion ust be aid to the mo - tum ant , as ted by the ory for cal and vex ion .
tum - ted sgd , ite ing a rst - der ach , is ble of ing ons low - ure ust ike an ate ton hod uch as hf .
our nts ort the dea hat his is ant , as we ved hat the use of ger tum ( as ned by ) had a dra - tic ect on ion nce , rly for the nns .
ver , we wed hat hf can be wed as a rst - der hod , and as a ion of nag in lar , and hat it ady ves ome of its ets ugh a tum - ike ism .
on the nce of ion and tum in eep ing
cun , y . , tou , l . , orr , g . , and ler , k .
ent rop .
ral rks : cks of the ade , pp
ens , j .
eep ing via ian - ree ion .
in ngs of the 3th nal nce on ine ing ( cml ) , 123
ens , j .
and ver , i .
ing ent ral rks ith ian - ree ion .
in ngs of the 3th nal nce on ine arn - ing ( cml ) , pp .
123 , 123
ens , j .
and ver , i .
ing eep and ent rks ith ian - ree ion .
ral net - rks : cks of the ade , pp .
123 , 123
lov , mas , ver ,
lya , ras , oop , le , hai - son , ink , fan , and cky , j .
ord age ing ith ral rks .
int ( ttp : / / www .
cz / lov / nlm / har
med , a . , ahl , g . e . , and ton , g .
tic mod - ing ing eep ief rks .
dio , ech , and age ing , eee ons on , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 123 , jan
rov , y .
a hod of ing a vex ram - ing lem ith nce ate o ( 123 / sqr ( k ) ) .
iet ics ady , 123 : 123 , 123
rov , y .
ory res on vex ion :
a sic rse , ume 123
ger , 123
orr , g . b .
ics and hms for tic rch .
yak , b . t .
ome ods of ing up the nce of ion ods .
ssr nal ics and cal ics , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
iko , ani , ola , rri , and cun , ann .
eep ing ade ier by ear ons in cep - ons .
in ips 123 hop on eep ing and sed ure ing , rra ada , ain ,
ver , i . , ens , j . , and ton , g .
ing ext ith ent ral rks .
in ngs of the 3th nal nce on ine ing , cml 123 , pp .
123 , une 123
nck , w . , oda , a . , and kes , t .
has - tic ics of ing ith tum in ral net - rks .
nal of ics a : cal and ral ,
