in his per we ose a vel hod for ing a bis nce ure to be sed in the knn ion thm .
the thm tly zes a tic ant of the ave - one - out knn ore on the ing set .
it can lso arn a low - nal lin - ear ing of led ata hat can be sed for ata ion and ast ion .
ike her ods , our ion del is non - ric , ing no ons out the ape of the ass ons or the ies een hem .
the nce of the hod is ted on ral ata ets , oth for ric ing and ear ity ion .
est bor ( knn ) is an ely ple yet gly ive hod for las - its eal ems rom the act hat its ion ces are ear , ere is nly a gle ger ter ( ich is ily ned ith oss - ion ) , and the ted ity of ons ves lly as the unt of ing ata in - ses .
ese ges , red by any non - ric ods , ect the act hat ugh the nal ion ine has ite igh ity ( nce it ses the ire oir of ing ata at est ime ) , the ial ing ure ely ses ing
ver , knn ers rom two ery ous cks .
the rst is nal , nce it ust ore and rch ugh the ire ing set in der to ify a gle est int .
( age can lly be ced by ing or ing the ing ta; and in low nal put ces , the rch lem can be ted by ing ata res uch as kd - ees or all - ees ( 123 ) . ) the ond is a ing sue : how uld the nce ric sed to ene the est urs of a est int be ned ? in his per , we ack oth of ese ies by ing a tic nce ric ich zes the ted ave - one - out ion ror on the ing ata hen sed ith a tic our ion ule .
ore , we can rce the ned nce ric to be low ank , hus lly ing age and rch sts at est ime .
123 tic est urs for nce ric ing
we gin ith a led ata set ing of n eal - ued put ors 123 , .
, xn in rd and ing ass els 123 , . . . , cn .
we ant to nd a nce ric hat zes
the nce of est our ion .
lly , we uld ike to ize nce on ure est ata , but nce we do not now the rue ata ion we ead mpt to ize ave - one - out ( loo ) nce on the ing ata .
in hat ows , we ict ves to ing bis ( tic ) nce ics , ich can ays be ted by ric ive emi - ite ces .
we sti - ate uch ics ugh eir rse are ots , by ing a ear ion of the put ace uch hat in the med ace , knn rms ell .
if we ote the ion by a rix a we are ely ing a ric q = a>a uch hat d ( x , y ) = ( x y ) >q ( x y ) = ( ax ay ) > ( ax ay ) .
the ual ave - one - out ion ror of knn is ite a ous ion of the ion a , nce an mal nge in a may nge the our aph and hus ect loo ion nce by a ite unt .
ead , we opt a ore ell ved ure of est our nce , by ing a ble ost ion sed on tic ( oft ) our nts in the med ace .
in lar , ach int i cts her int j as its our ith ome ity pij , and its its ass bel rom the int it cts .
we ene the pij ing a max ver ean ces in the med ace :
3=i exp ( axi 123 )
pii = 123
der his tic ion ule , we can ute the ity pi hat int i ill be tly ied ( ote the set of nts in the ame ass as i by ci = ( |ci = cj ) ) :
pi = jci
the ive we ize is the ted ber of nts tly ied der his
f ( a ) =xi jci
ing f ith ect to the ion rix a lds a ent ule ich we can use for ing ( ote xij = xi xj ) :
= axi jci
ing the rms we ain a ore tly ted ion :
our thm ich we dub ood nts sis ( nca ) is ely ple : ize the ove ive ( 123 ) ing a ent sed zer uch as lta - bar - lta or ate nts .
of rse , nce the ost ion ove is not vex , ome are ust be ken to oid cal ima ing ing .
ver , ike any her ive ons ( ere ood ima are not ily eep but her oad ) it has een our nce hat the ger we can ive f ing ing the ter our est nce ill be .
in her rds , we ave ver ved an ing ect .
ice hat by ing the all ale of a as ell as the ive ons of its ows we are lso ely ing a eal - ued ate of the mal ber of urs ( k ) .
his ate ars as the ive ity of the ons pij .
if the ing
ure nts to uce the ive ity ( ult wer urs ) it can ale up a ly; rly by ing own all the ies in a it can ase the ity of and ely age ver ore urs ing the tic ion .
ing the ive ion f ( a ) is ent to ing the 123 orm een the rue ass ion ( ing ity one on the rue ass ) and the tic ass ion ced by pij via a .
a ral ive nce is the kl - nce ich ces the ing ive ion :
ing his ive uld ond to ing the ity of ing a ect ( ror ree ) ion of the ire ing set .
the ent of g ( a ) is ven ler han hat of f ( a ) :
= axi xk
we ave ted ith ing his ost ion as ell , and und oth the ans - ons ned and the nce lts on ing and ing ata to be ery lar to ose ned ith the nal ost ion .
to eed up the ent ion , the ums hat ear in ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ver the ata nts and ver the urs of ach int , can be ted ( one use we can do tic ent her han act ent and the her use pij ops off
123 low ank nce ics and are ion
ten it is ful to uce the ity of put ata , her for nal sav - ngs or for ion of a ent ing thm .
ear ity re - ion ues ( ich ply a ear tor to the nal ata in der to ive at the ced ion ) are lar use hey are oth ast and ves ela - ely une to ing .
use hey ent nly fne aps , ear ons lso rve ome ial ogy of the nal ata .
any hes ist for lin - ear ity ion , ing rom ely sed hes ( uch as tor sis , pal nts sis and ent nts sis ) to ods ich ake use of ass els in ion to put res uch as ear ant sis ( lda ) ( 123 ) bly ned ith ant nts sis ( rca ) ( 123 ) .
by ing a to be a are rix of ize dd , nca can lso do ear ion - ity ion .
in his ase , the ned ric ill be low ank , and the med uts ill lie in rd .
( nce the ion is ear , out oss of ity we nly con - der the ase d d .
) by ing uch a ion , we can lly eap any her ets ond the ady ent hod for ing a knn nce ric .
in par - lar , by ing d ( cid : 123 ) d we can tly uce the age and rch - ime nts of knn .
ing d = 123 or d = 123 we can lso ute ful low nal ual - ons on led ets , ing nly a ear ion .
the thm is tly the ame : ize the ost ion ( 123 ) ing ent ent on a are a .
our hod res no rix ons and mes no ric del ( ian or ise ) for the ass ons or the ies een hem .
for now , the ity of the ced ion ( the ber of ows in a ) ust be set by the ser .
by ing an hly lar a so hat d ( cid : 123 ) d , we can tly uce the com - nal oad of knn at the nse of ing the ble ics to be ose of
ank at ost d .
to eve his , we ply the nca ing thm to nd the mal ion a , and hen we ore nly the ons of the ing nts yn = axn ( as ell as eir els ) .
at est ime , we ify a new int est by rst ing its ion est = est and hen ing knn ion on est ing the yn and a ple ean ric .
if d is ely all ( say ess han 123 ) , we can ess the yn by ing a kd - ree or a all - ree to her ase the eed of rch at est ime .
the age nts of his hod are o ( dn ) + dd red ith o ( dn ) for knn in the nal put ace .
123 nts in ric ing and ity ion
we ave ted the nca thm nst ard nce ics for knn and her ods for ear ity ion .
in our nts , we ave sed 123 ata ets ( 123 rom the uc ine ory ) .
we red the nca ion ned rom ing f ( for are a ) on the ing set ith the ult ean nce a = i , the ing ion , a = 123 123 ( ere is the ple ata nce rix ) , and the rca ( 123 ) ion a = w ( ere w is the age of the hin - ass nce ces ) .
we lso ted the our of nca hen a is ted to be nal , ing nly xis ned bis res .
ure 123 ows hat the ing and ( ore tly ) ing nce of nca is tly the ame as or ter han hat of her bis nce res for knn , ite the ive ity of the nca ive ion and the act hat the nce ric ing ned is ing ore han a ive ite rix a>a .
we ave lso ted the use of ear ity ion ing nca ( ith non - are a ) for ion as ell as ced - ity ion on ral ets .
in ure 123 we how 123 les of 123 - d ion .
rst , we ted a tic ree - nal set ( own in top row of ure 123 ) ich sts of 123 ses ( own by ent ors ) .
in two ons , the ses are ted in ric les , ile the ird ion is ust ian ise , ted ith the her ons or the ass bel .
if the ise nce is rge ugh , the ion und by pca is ced to ude the ise ( as own on the top eft of ure 123 ) .
( a ull ank ean ric uld lso be led by his ion . ) the ses are not vex and not be lin - rly ted , nce the lts ned rom lda ill be ate ( as own in ure 123 ) .
in ast , nca ely nds the est ion out ing any ara - ric ure in the low nal ion .
we ave lso ied nca to the uci ine set , ich sts of 123 nts led nto 123 ses and to a ase of ray - ale ges of ces ing of 123 ses ( ach a ate ual ) and 123 ons ( age ize is 123 123 ) .
the ace set sts of 123 ges ( 123 for ach son ) .
lly , we ied our thm to a set of the sps set of ten git ges , ing of the rst ve git ses ( one ugh ve ) .
the ale ges ere led to 123 123 xel ion ing in 123 ons .
as can be een in ure 123 hen a two - nal ion is sed , the ses are con - tly uch ter ted by the nca ion han by her pca ( ich is sed ) or lda ( ich has ess to the ass els ) .
of rse , the nca for - ion is ill nly a ear ion , ust zed ith a ost ion ich tly ges cal ion .
to her ify the ion lts we can ply a est - bor ion in the ted ace .
ing the ame ion ned at ing ime , we ect the ing set and all ure est nts and orm knn in the low - nal ace ing the ean ure .
the lts der the pca , lda , lda wed by rca and nca ons ( ing 123 ) ear in ure 123
the nca ion tly ves ior nce in his hly ned low -
nce ric ing ing
nce ric ing ing
ank 123 ion ing
ank 123 ion ing
ure 123 : knn ion acy ( eft ain , ght est ) on uci ets nce , ono - ere , ris , ine and ing and on the sps ten its .
lts are ges ver 123 ons of ing ach set nto ing ( 23% ) and ing ( 23% ) ets ( for sps 123 ges for ach of the 123 git ses ere sed for ing and 123 for ing ) .
top els how nce ric ing ( are a ) and tom els how ear ity ion own to d = 123
ank knn ing .
in ary , we ave und hat hen led ata is ble , nca rms ter oth in rms of ion nce in the ted ion and in rms of ion of ass ion as red to the ard ods of pca and lda .
123 ons to ous els and emi - sed ing
ugh we ave sed ere on ete ses , ear ons and lly su - sed ing , any ons of his sic dea are ble .
rly , a ear ion ion a ( ) uld be ned ing any ure ( uch as a yer ron ) ble by ent ods .
ore , it is ble to end the las - ion ork ted ove to the ase of a eal ued ( ous ) ion nal by ing the set of ect hes ci for int i to be ose nts j ing lar ( ous ) ets .
his lly ads to the dea of oft hes , in ich the ive ion mes a sum ver all irs , ach ted by eir ent ac - ing to the ets .
ing der uch an ive can ill eed ven in ngs ere the ets are not tly ded as ong as ion ing ose irs
ure 123 : set ion lts of pca , lda and nca ied to ( rom top ) the ric ngs , ine , ces and its ets .
the ata are ced rom eir nal ies ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ely ) to the 123 ons
ure 123 : the two nal uts of the ral ork on a set of est ses .
on the eft , ach int is own ing a ine ent hat has the ame ion as the put ace .
on the ght , the ame nts are own ain ith the ize of the cle ing the ize of the ace .
is ble .
uch emi - sed sks ten ise in ins ith ong ial or tem - ral ity nts on the ion , e . g .
in a deo of a ons ace we may ume hat ose , and ion ary wly in ime ven if no ual mes are ver led tly ith cal ose or ion ues .
to ate his , we ate irs of ces in the ing way : rst we ose two ces at dom rom the ret - b set ( 123 ted ces hat ave a ard ion and ale ) .
the rst ace is ted by an gle mly ted een 23o and led to ave a ght mly ted een 123 and 123 els .
the ond ace ( ich is of a ent son ) is ven the ame ion and ing but ith ian ise of 23o and 123 els .
the air is ven a ght , wab , ich is the ity ity of the ded ise ded by its mum ble lue .
we hen ned a ral ork ith one den yer of 123 tic its to map rom the 123 xel ies of a ace to a int , y , in a 123 - d put ace .
ion was sed to ize the ost ion in eq .
123 ich ges the ces in a air to be ced ose her :
wab log exp ( |ya 123 )
pc , d exp ( |yc 123 ) ! ( 123 )
ost = air ( a , b )
ere c and d are ces ver all of the ces , not ust the nes hat orm a air .
our ple ces are own to the ht; ori - lly the irs ree and lly hey do not .
ure 123 ove ows hat the ard ral ork red lar oor - tes out the ser ing to ide how to ent ale and ion in the put ace .
123 ips to her ods and ons
ral ers tly sed the lem of ing bis nce ons ven led ata or at ast ide - ion of the orm of nce nts .
two ted ods are rca ( 123 ) and a vex ion sed thm ( 123 ) .
rca is tly ing a ian ion for ach ass ( so it can be bed ing nly the rst two nts of the ass - nal ion ) .
ing et .
al mpt to nd a ion ich zes all ise red ces een nts in the
ame ss; his tly mes hat ses orm a gle act ted set .
for hly dal ass ons his ost ion ill be ely zed .
owe ( 123 ) sed a hod lar to urs but sed a ore ted dea for ing a est our nce ric .
in his ach , the ric is ned to be nal ( as ell , it is hat tly zed ) , and the ive ion nds to the age red ror een the rue ass ion and the ted ion , ich is not ely ate in a ore tic ing .
in lel ere has een ork on ing low ank ons for ast ion and ion .
the sic lda thm ( 123 ) is mal if all ass ons are ian ith a gle red ce; his ion , ver is ely rue .
lda lso ers rom a all ple ize lem hen ing ith igh - nal ata hen the hin - ass ter rix is rly lar ( 123 ) .
ent nts of lda ( e . g .
( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) ake the ion ore ust to ers and to cal ity hen not ugh nts are ble .
( his lem oes not ist in our hod nce ere is no eed for a rix ion . )
in ral , ere are two ses of ion ion hat are mon in ear ods for ion .
the rst is a ong ric ion out the ure of the ass ons ( lly ing ted or ven vex ure ) ; the ond is an ion out the ion ary ( lly ing a ane ) .
our hod kes her of ese ons , ing ead on the ong ion sed by ing ves to a ear ion of the nal uts .
ure rch on the nca del ill ate ing cal tes of k as ved rom the opy of the ons ij; the ble use of a tic ion ule at est me; and ore tic ons een the ive ons f and g .
to ude , we ave ced a vel non - ric ing hod nca hat les the sks of nce ing and ity ion in a ied ner .
ugh uch ent ort has sed on non - ear ods , we eel hat ear em - ing has ill not lly led its ial for her ion or ing .
nks to vid man and aul ola for ing hat we ate the rna - ive ost g ( a ) and the ase of nal a .
