ral tic age els ( lms ) ave een own to be eti - ive ith and lly ior to the ely - sed n - ram age els .
the ain ack of lms is eir ely ong ing and ing mes .
rin and gio ave sed a cal age del ilt und a ary ree of rds , ich was two ers of ude ter han the non - cal del it was sed on .
ver , it med bly rse han its non - cal art in ite of ing a ord ree ted ing ert dge .
we uce a ast cal age del ong ith a ple ure - sed thm for tic ion of ord ees rom the ata .
we hen how hat the ing els can orm non - cal ral els as ell as the est n - ram els .
cal age ing is ned ith ing tic els of ord ces .
uch els can be sed to ate ble ces rom ble nes , a ask ant for ing ech ion , ion val , and ine ion .
the ast ity of cal age els are sed on the kov ion , ich tes hat the ibu - ion of a ord nds nly on ome xed ber of rds hat ely ede it .
ile his ion is rly lse , it is ery ent use it ces the lem of ing the ity ion of ord ces of ary gth to the lem of ing the ion on the ext ord ven ome xed ber of ing rds , led the ext .
we ill ote his ion by p ( 123 : 123 ) , ere wn is the ext ord and 123 : 123 is the ext ( 123 , . . . , 123 ) .
n - ram age els are the ost lar cal age els due to eir ity and gly ood nce .
ese els are ply nal ity les for p ( 123 : 123 ) , ted by ing the n - les in the ing ata and ing the nts ely .
nce the ber of n - les is ial in n , ing the raw nts is ial for ing ood nce .
ere is a rge ber of ing ods ble for n - ram els ( 123 ) .
in ite of the ted ing ods ped for hem , n - ram els are ble to ake age of rge xts nce the ata ity lem mes eme .
the ain son for his ior is the act hat cal n - ram els are lly nal ity les ere ent ies are ted tly of ach her .
ese els do not ake age of the act hat lar rds cur in lar xts , use hey ave no ept of ity .
ass - sed n - ram els ( 123 ) aim to ess his sue by ing rds and / or xts nto ses sed on eir age rns and hen ing his ass ion to ove ion .
ile it can ove n - ram nce , his ach ces a ery gid ind of ity , nce ach ord lly ngs to tly one ass .
an ive and uch ore ble ach to ing the ata ity lem is to ent ach ord ing a eal - ued ure tor hat res its ies , so hat rds
sed in lar xts ill ave lar ure ors .
hen the nal ity of the ext ord can be led as a oth ion of the ure ors of the ext rds and the ext ord .
his ach des tic ing , nce for a ven ext lar rds are now eed to be ned lar ies .
rly , lar xts are now ely to ave lar ons ing in lar ons for the ext ord .
ost els sed on his ach use a eed - ard ral ork to map the ure ors of the ext rds to the ion for the ext ord ( e . g .
( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
aps the est own del of his ype is the ral tic age del ( 123 ) , ich has een own to orm n - ram els on a set of out one ion rds .
123 the cal ral ork age del
the ain ack of the plm and her lar els is hat hey are ery low to ain and est ( 123 ) .
nce ing the ity of the ext ord res tly ing ver all rds in the ary , the ost of ing the ity of the ven ext ord and the ost of ing the ull ion ver the ext ord are lly the ame hey ake ime ear in the ary ize .
nce ing the act ent in uch els res dly ing the ity of the ext ord ven its ext and ing the del ers to ase hat ity , ing ime is lso ear in the ary ize .
cal ral age ets ave ies ing ens of nds of rds , ich ans hat ing plm - ike els the ard way is lly too lly ive in ice .
one way to eed up the ess is to use a zed nce ing ure to ate the nts red for ing ( 123 ) .
ver , ile his hod can eed up ing lly , ing ins lly ive .
the cal plm ced in ( 123 ) , des an ial ion in ime ity of ing and ing as red to the plm .
it ves his ion by ing the ruc - red ary of the plm by a ary ree hat nts a cal ing of rds in the ary .
ach ord nds to a eaf in the ree and can be ely ied by the ath rom the oot to hat eaf .
if n is the ber of rds in the ary and the ree is bal - ced , any ord can be ied by a nce of o ( log n ) ary ons ing ich of the two ren of the ent ode is to be ted ext .
his tup ces one n - way ice by a nce of o ( log n ) ary ces .
in tic rms , one n - way ion is ced by a nce of o ( log n ) cal ( ary ) ons .
as a ult , a ion ver rds in the ary can be ied by ing the ity of ing the eft ild at ach of the des .
in the cal plm , ese cal ies are ted by ing a ion of the plm the ure ors for the ext rds as ell as a ure tor for the ent ode as uts .
the ity of the ext ord is hen ven by the ity of ing a nce of ary ons hat nds to the ath to hat ord .
hen ied to a set of out one ion rds , his del med ass - sed ams , but med bly rse han the plm ( 123 ) .
the cal del ver was ore han two ers of ude ter han the plm .
the ain ion of his ork was the ure sed to uct the ree of rds for the del .
the ree was ned by ing ith the net is - a omy and ing it nto a ary ree ugh a ion of ual and ata - ven ing .
our oal is to ace his ure by an ted hod for ing ees rom the ing ata out ing ert dge of any ind .
we ill lso ore the nce ets of ing ees ere ach ord can cur ore han nce .
123 the log - ear del
we ill use the log - ear age del ( lbl ) ( 123 ) as the ion of our cal del use of its ent nce and ity .
ike lly all ral age els , the lbl del nts ach ord ith a eal - ued ure tor .
we ill ote the ure tor for ord w by rw and fer to the rix ing all ese ure ors as r .
to ict the ext ord wn ven the ext 123 : 123 , the del tes the ted ure tor r for the ext ord by rly ing the ext ord ure ors :
ere ci is the ght rix ted ith the ext ion i .
hen the ity een the ted ure tor and the ure tor for ach ord in the ary is ted ing the ner uct .
the ies are hen ted and zed to ain the ion ver the ext ord :
p ( wn = 123 : 123 ) =
exp ( rt rw + bw ) pj exp ( rt rj + bj )
ere bw is the ias for ord w , ich is sed to ure the ext - ent ord ncy .
ote hat the lbl del can be ted as a ial ind of a eed - ard ral ork ith one ear den yer and a max put yer .
the uts to the ork are the ure ors for the ext rds , ile the rix of hts rom the den yer to the put yer is ply the ure tor rix r .
the tor of ies of the den its nds to the the ted ure tor for the ext ord .
ike the plm , the lbl del eds to ute the den ies nly nce per ion and has no ies in its den yer .
in ite of its ity the lbl del rms ery ell , ing oth the plm and the n - ram els on a rly rge set ( 123 ) .
123 the cal log - ear del
our cal age del is sed on the cal del rom ( 123 ) .
the ing res of our del are the use of the log - ear age del for ing the ies at ach ode and the ity to dle ple ces of ach ord in the ree .
ote hat the dea of ing ple ord ces in a ree was sed in ( 123 ) , but it was not ted .
the rst ent of the cal log - ear del ( lbl ) is a ary ree ith rds at its ves .
for now , we ill ume hat ach ord in the ary is at tly one eaf .
hen ach ord can be ely ied by a ath rom the oot of the ree to the eaf ode the ord is at .
the ath elf can be ded as a ary ing d of ons ade at ach ode , so hat di = 123 nds to the ion to sit the eft ild of the ent ode .
for ple , the ing 123 nds to a ath hat rts at the oot , its its eft ild , and hen its the ght ild of hat ild .
his ows ach ord to be ted by a ary ing ich we ill all a ode .
the ond ent of the lbl del is the tic del for ing the ons at ach ode , ich in our ase is a ied ion of the lbl del .
in the lbl del , ust ike in its non - cal art , ext rds are ted ing eal - ued ure ors .
ach of the non - eaf des in the ree lso has a ure tor ted ith it hat is sed for ing the rds in the eft ree orm the rds in the ght ree of the ode .
ike the ext rds , the rds ing ted are ted ing eir ary des hat are ned by the ord ree .
ver , his ion is ill ite ble , nce ach ary git in the ode des a ion ade at a ode , ich nds on hat des ure tor .
in the lbl del , the ity of the ext ord ing w is the ity of ing the ces of ary ons ied by the rds ode , ven the ext .
nce the ity of ing a ion at a ode nds nly on the ted ure tor , ned by the ext , and the ure tor for hat ode , we can ess the ity of the ext ord as a uct of ies of the ary ons :
p ( wn = 123 : 123 ) = y
p ( |qi , 123 : 123 ) ,
ere di is ith git in the ode for ord w , and qi is the ure tor for the ith ode in the ath ing to hat ode .
the ity of ach ion is ven by
ere ( x ) is the tic ion and r is the ted ure tor ted ing eq .
bi in the ion is the des ias hat res the ext - ent ncy to sit the eft ild hen ing his ode .
p ( di = |qi , 123 : 123 ) = ( rt qi + bi ) ,
the ion of p ( wn = 123 : 123 ) can be ded to ple des per ord by ing a ion ver all des for w as ows :
p ( wn = 123 : 123 ) = x
p ( |qi , 123 : 123 ) ,
ere d ( w ) is a set of des ing to ord w .
ing ple des per ord can low ter ion of rds hat ave ple ses or ple age rns .
ing ple des per ord lso kes it asy to ine ral ate rds ies to nto a gle one to to ect the act hat no gle chy can ess all the ips een rds .
ing the lbl del ead of the plm for ing the cal ies ows us to oid ing the ies in the den yer ich kes our cal del ter at mak - ing ons han the cal plm .
ore tly , the cal plm eds to ute the den ies nce for ach of the o ( log n ) ons , ile the lbl del tes the ted ure tor ust nce per ion .
ver , the ime ity of ing the ity for a gle ary ion in an lbl del is ill tic in the ure tor ity d , ich ght ake the use of igh - nal ure ors too lly ive .
we ake the ime ity ear in d by ing the ght ces ci to be nal . 123 ote hat for a ext of ize 123 , his ion oes not uce the nal wer of the del use the ext ght rix 123 can be bed nto the ord ure ors .
and ile his ion oes kes the els ith ger xts tly ess ful , we eve hat his oss is ore han ted for by uch ter ing mes ich low ing ore lex ees .
lbl els can be ned by ing the ( zed ) log - ood .
nce the ity of the ext ord nds nly on the ext hts , the ure ors of the ext rds , and the ure ors of the des on the ths rom the oot to the ves ing the ord in ion , nly a ( lly ) all ion of the ers eed to be ted for ach ing ase .
123 cal ing of rds
the rst tep in ing a cal age del is ing a ary ree of rds for the del to use .
his can be one by ing ert dge , ata - ven ods , or a ion of the two .
for ple , in ( 123 ) the ree was ted rom the is - a omy dag rom net ( 123 ) .
ter ing the omy by and to ure hat ach ode had nly one ent , ata - ven cal ary ing was med on the ren of the des in the omy hat had ore han two ren , ing in a ary ree .
we are ted in ing a ure ing ach ble in ons ere the ert owl - dge is ble .
it is lso not ear hat ing ert dge , ven hen it is ble , ill ead to ior nce .
cal ary ing of rds sed on the eir age ics is a ral ice for ing ary ees of rds lly .
his ask is lar to the ask of ing rds nto ses for ing ass - sed n - ram els , for ich a rge ber of hms has een sed .
we red ral of ese hms ore cid - ing to use our own thm ich ned out to be gly ive in ite of its ity .
ver , we ill ion two ing hms hat ght be ble for ing ary ord ies .
nce we ted an thm hat led ell to rge ies , we ted our ion to the top - own cal ing hms , as hey end to ale ter han eir ive rts ( 123 ) .
the thm rom ( 123 ) ces tly the ind of ary ees we eed , ept hat its ime ity is bic in the ary ize . 123 we lso red the nal ing thm ( 123 ) but ded not to use it use of the ies ved in ing xts of ore han one ord for ing .
his lem is red by ost n - ram ing hms , so we ill ibe it in ome ail .
nce we uld ike to ter rds for asy ion of the ext ord sed on its ext , it is ral to ibe ach ord in rms of the xts hat can ede it .
for ple , for a gle - ord ext one uch ion is the
of ext hts for ion i and tes the ise uct of two ors .
hus the ure tor for the ext ord can now be ted as r = 123 ore ely , the ime ity of the thm is bic in the ber of the ent rds , but hat
is ill to low for our ses .
ci rwi , ere ci is a tor
ion of rds hat ede the ord of est in the ing ata .
the lem mes ent hen we der ing ger xts : the ber of xts hat can lly pre - ede a ord ows lly in the ext ize .
his is the ery ame ata ity lem hat cts the n - ram els , ich is not ing , nce we are ing to ibe rds in rms of lly rge ( zed ) unt ors .
hus , ing rds sed on uch rge - ext ons mes non - ial due to the nal ost ved as ell as the cal ies sed by the ity of the ata .
we oid ese ies by ing on low - nal eal - ued ord ons in our ree - ing ure .
nce we eed to ain a del to ain ord ure ors , we orm the ing ing ure : we ate a dom ary ree of rds , ain an lbl del sed on it , and use the ted ons it rns to ent rds hen ing the ord ree .
nce ach ord is ted by a ion ver xts it ars in , we eed a way of ing uch a ion of xts own to a low - nal tor .
ter ing the lbl del , we ize ach ext 123 : 123 ith the ted ure tor ced rom it ing eq .
hen , we nse the ion of xts hat ede a ven ord nto a ure tor by ing the ion of the ted ion w . r . t .
hat ion .
hus , for the ses of ing ach ord is ted by its age ted ure tor .
ter ing the low - nal eal - ued ure ors for rds , we ely ply a ery ple ing thm to hem .
at ach tep , we t a ure of two ans to the ure ors and hen ion hem nto two ets sed on the ies of the two ure nts for hem .
we hen ion ach of the ets ing the ame ure , and so on .
the ion ops hen the ent set ins nly two rds .
we t the res by ing the em thm for 123 123
the thm tes oth the ans and the cal ces of the nts .
nce the ans of the nts are zed sed on a dom ing of the ure ors , the thm is not tic and ill uce hat ent ngs on ent uns .
one ing rty of his thm is hat the ing ime of ach ion is ear in the ary ize , ich is a nce of ing rds ing ure ors of xed ity .
in our nts , the thm ook nly a few tes to ild a chy for a ary of rly 123 rds sed on 123 - nal
the oal of an thm for ing ees for cal age els is to uce ees hat are ell - ted by the ata and are bly ell - ced so hat the ing els ize ell and are ast to ain and est .
to ore the ade - off een ese two ire - nts , we ied ral ing les in our ree - ing thm .
the les are sed on the ion hat the ity of a ent for a int can be sed as a ure of con - nce out the ent of the int to the ent .
hus , hen the ies of oth nts for a int are ose to 123 , we not be ure hat the int uld be in one ent but not the her .
our est ule ims to uce a ced ree at any ost .
it rts the ies and its the rds nto two int ets of ual ize sed on the ted der .
the ond ule kes its ell - ted by the ata ven if hat lts in an ced ree .
it ves hat by ing the ord to the ent ith the her ity for the ord .
the ird and the ost ted ule is an ion of the ond ule , ied to ign a int to oth nts ver oth ies are hin of 123 , for ome pre - ied .
his ule is ned to uce ple des for rds hat are ult to ter .
we ill fer to the hms hat use ese les as ced , ive , and ive ( ) ely .
lly , as a ine for son ith the ove hms , we ill use an thm hat tes dom ced ees .
it rts ith a dom ion of the rds and ely lds the eft ree sed one the rst alf of the rds and the ght ree sed on the ond alf of the rds .
we ill all his thm dom .
ing em for ore han 123 eps did not ake a ant nce in the ity of the ing
ble 123 : ees of rds ted by the ure - sed thm .
the ean ode gth is the sum of ths of des ted ith a ord , ged ver the ion of the rds in the ing ata .
the run - ime ity of the cal del is ear in the ean ode gth of the ree sed .
the ean ber of des per ord ers to the ber of des per ord ged ver the ing ata ion .
nce ach non - eaf ode in a ree has its own ure tor , the ber of ree ers ted ith the ree is ear in his ity .
ean ode ean ber of des per ord
ble 123 : the ect of the ure ity and the ord ree sed on the est set ity of
a dom ree
a non - dom ree
123 tal lts
we red the nce of our els on the ews set ing the ted ess ews ies rom 123 and 123
the set sts of a 123 ion ord ing set , a 123 ion ord ion set , and 123 ion ord est set .
the ary ize for his set is 123
we ose his set use it had ady een sed to are the nce of ral els to hat of n - ram els in ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , ich wed us to are our lts to the lts in ose ers .
ept for ere ted ise , the els sed for the nts sed 123 nal ure ors and a ext ize of 123
the ils of the ing ure we sed are ven in the dix .
all els ere red sed on eir ity ore on the est set .
we ted by ing a del hat sed a ree ted by the dom thm ( ree 123 in ble 123 ) .
the ure ors ned by his del ere sed to ild a ree ing the ced thm ( ree 123 ) .
we hen ned els of ous ure tor ity on ach of ese ees to see her a hly ive del can ate for ing a rly ted ree .
the est res for the ing els are ven in ble 123
as can be een rom the res , ing a non - dom ree lts in uch ter del nce .
ugh the gap in nce can be ced by ing the ity of ure ors , ing a non - dom ree sti - lly ves nce ven for the del ith 123 - nal ure ors .
it uld be ted ver , hat els hat use the dom ree are not ely ess .
for ple , hey orm the ram del ich ved the ity of 123 by a ery rge gin .
his sts hat the lbl ure is tly ble to ake ive use of a dom ree
nce ing the ure ity ond 123 did not ult in a ial ion in ity , we sed 123 - nal ure ors for all of our els in the ing eri - nts .
ext we red the ect of the ree ing thm on the nce of the ing lbl del .
to do hat , we sed the dom , ced , and ive hms to ate one ree ach .
the ive ( ) thm was sed to ate two ees : one ith set
ble 123 : est set ity lts for the cal lbl els .
all the ted els in the son sed 123 - nal ure ors and a ext ize of 123
lbl is the non - cal log - ear del .
knn is a ser - ney n - ram del .
the res for lbl , 123 , and 123 are rom ( 123 ) .
the ing for lbl is sed on our ion of the del .
to 123 and the her ith set to 123 .
we hen ted a 123 ete ree by ing the ive ( = 123 ) thm ice and ing a ree ith a oot ode hat had the two ted ees as its ees .
nce the ive ( ) thm ves ome ion we ied to ove the del nce by ing the del to ose lly een two ble ngs .
lly , we ted a 123 ete ing the ame ach .
ble 123 sts the ted ees as ell as ome ics for hem .
ote hat ees ted ing ive ( ) ing > 123 ult in els ith ore ers due to the ter ber of ree - des and hus ree - ode ure ors , as red to ees ted ing ods ing one ode / eaf
ble 123 ows the est set ies and ime per och for the ing els ong ith the ies for els rom ( 123 ) .
the lts how hat the nce of the lbl els sed on non - dom ees is ble to hat of the n - ram els .
as ted , ing ord ees ely ves del nce .
the ral end hat ges is hat ger ees end to ead to ter ing els .
for ple , a del sed on a gle ree ced ing the ive ( 123 ) thm , rms as ell as the 123 - ram but not as ell as the non - cal lbl del .
ver , ing a 123 ete ree ted ing the ame thm lts in a del hat rms oth the n - ram els and the lbl del , and ing a 123 ete ree ads to a her ion in ity .
the ime - per - och ics ted for the ral els in ble 123 ows the eat eed age of the lbl els ver the lbl del .
eed , the est of our lbl els is ver 123 mes ter han the lbl del .
123 ion and ure ork
we ave ted hat a hal ral age del can lly orm its non - cal rts and eve ate - of - the - art nce .
the key to ing a cal del orm ell is ing a lly ted chy ver rds .
we ave ted a ple and ast ure - sed thm for tic ion of uch ies .
ing ies in ich ery ord red ore han nce was ial to ing the els to
an ion of ees ted by our ive thm wed hat the rds ith the est ers of des ( i . e .
the ord hat ere ted the ost ) ere not the rds ith ple nct ses .
ead , the thm red to ate the rds hat red ely in - tly in the ata and ere ore ult to ter .
the ure to use ple des for rds ith ral ery ent ses is bly a nce of ing the ion ver xts ith a gle ean ure tor hen ing rds .
the nse ity of ext ons uld be ter red by ing a all set of ure ors und by ing the xts .
lly , nce our ree ing thm is sed on the ure ors ned by the del , it is ble to lly upt ing of uch a del to ild the ord ree sed on the ure ors ded by the del ing ned .
his ied ing ure ght uce ter els by ing the ord chy to apt to the tic ent of the del and ice rsa .
dix : ils of the ing ure
the els ave een ned by ing the log - ood ing tic ent ent .
all del ers her han the ses ere zed by ing rom a ian of all nce .
the ses for the ree des ere zed so hat the ion ced by the del ith all the non - ias ers set to ero hed the ase tes of the rds in the ing set .
els ere ned ing the ing ate of 123 til the ity on the ion set ted to ase .
hen the ing ate was ced to 123 123 and ing was med til the ion ity ted ing ain .
all del ers ere ted ing a all
we ank tin mer for his nts on a aft of his per .
his rch was ted by erc and cfi .
geh is a low of the ian ute for ced rch .
