Hypermedia Learning and Prior Knowledge:  

Domain Expertise vs. System Expertise 

 

 

Abstract 

Prior knowledge is often argued to be an important determinant in hypermedia learning, 

and may be thought of as including two important elements: domain expertise and 

system expertise.  However, there has been a lack of research considering these issues 

together.  In an attempt to address this shortcoming, this paper presents a study that 

examines how domain expertise and system expertise influence students’ learning 

performance in, and perceptions of, a hypermedia system. The results indicate that 

participants with lower domain knowledge show a greater improvement in their learning 

performance than those with higher domain knowledge. Furthermore, those who enjoy 

using the Web more are likely to have positive perceptions of non-linear interaction. 

Discussions on how to accommodate the different needs of students with varying levels 

of prior knowledge are provided based on the results.  

 
Keywords: 

Hypermedia Learning, Individual Differences, Domain Knowledge, System Experience 

 

 
 

1. Introduction 

In the past decade, the approaches embodied by learning technologies have shifted from 

a behaviourist to a constructivist perspective, in which students need to actively 

construct their understanding of subject matter (Littlejohn, 2002). Hypermedia is one of 

these technologies. Unlike the linear structure of books and traditional computer-assisted 

learning, hypermedia presents information with non-linear format (Khalifa and Lam, 

2002). As suggested by Crook (1994), the format of information and the medium used to 

present information have considerable impact on learning. The hypermedia format 

supports a more flexible approach to instruction that helps students work with that 

content from several different perspectives (Spiro, et al., 1992). In other words, students 

are allowed to learn in their own ways – to make their own paths through the material 

available (Barua, 2001) – and to learn things at their own pace (Chen, 2002).   

 

However, with this increase in flexibility and freedom for the individual come potential 

problems for some students. Hypermedia forces the students to decide their own 

navigation strategies. Students who lack the skills of independent study may feel 

confused because they are used to following their tutors’ instruction and may find it 

difficult to decide their own learning paths  (Ford and Chen, 2000; Last et al., 2001). For 

example, they may forget what they have already covered and run the risk of missing out 

important information (Chen and Angelies, 2003; McDonald and Stevenson, 1998a).  

This suggests that not all types of student appreciate the flexibility and freedom offered 

by hypermedia systems and that the individual differences of students are therefore 

important factors to be considered in the development of hypermedia learning systems.  

 

1

Research into individual differences in hypermedia learning has highlighted a number of 

attributes where individuals may differ, which may affect the way in which they learn 

from and interact with hypermedia systems. These range from gender differences (e.g., 

Schumacher and Morahan-Martin, 2001), through cognitive styles (e.g., Kim, 2001; 

Chen and Macredie, 2004), to prior knowledge (Last et al., 2001; Holscher and Strube, 

2000). Among these attributes, prior knowledge has particularly been recognised as an 

important attribute because it can influence how learners select information to place in 

memory and link new information to that already stored in memory (Spyridakis and 

Isakson, 1991). However, current research lacks a full understanding of how these are 

related to hypermedia learning. Few studies consider both learners’ domain knowledge 

and system experience, both of which are aspects of prior knowledge that are relevant to 

learning using hypermedia systems. To address this gap, the study reported in this paper 

aims to examine the influence of both domain knowledge and system experience on 

users’ learning performance and perception of a hypermedia tutorial. It was hoped that 

by assessing individuals’ learning experiences a greater understanding of the role of 

domain knowledge and system experience in hypermedia learning could be reached. 

 
This paper begins by building the theoretical background in order to understand the 

factors that have significant effects on student learning in hypermedia systems. It then 

progresses to discuss the current empirical study, which examines how individual 

differences, particularly focusing on the differences of system experience and prior 

domain knowledge, influence the students’ learning experiences in a hypermedia tutorial. 

Finally, the findings of this study are discussed by comparing with those of previous 

work and illustrating the implications for the design of hypermedia learning systems.  

 

2

2. Theoretical Background 

2.1 Hypermedia Learning   

Hypermedia learning systems present course material in a non-linear structure, allow 

learners to control their learning pace, and offer numerous types of navigation support 

(Chen and Macredie, 2002). These features make hypermedia a useful learning 

technology, offering advantages over traditional didactic learning methods (Khalifa and 

Lam, 2002) and linear multimedia tutorials (Barua, 2001). In terms of non-linear 

structure, students are provided with freedom of navigation, giving them opportunities to 

select what information to access as well as how to sequence the information in a manner 

that is meaningful to them (Lawless and Brown, 1997). In this way, learners can 

construct their own individualised knowledge structures by cross-referencing the related 

topics in the subject domain. It has even been claimed that the flexibility that hypermedia 

offers in both structure and style may make it the “most effective technology system to 

date for individualizing instruction” (Jonassen, 1988, p.14). 

 

With regard to learner control, students are given control over the learning strategy 

(Large, 1996). Hypermedia relies on learner control to be effective, since it is the student 

who determines which nodes to visit. This differs from lectures, for example, which are 

tutor-driven (Khafifa and Lam, 2002). Three types of learner control can be provided by 

hypermedia learning: (a) pace control –  enabling the student to select the pace of work; 

(b) sequence control –  allowing the student to decide the order in which to tackle lesson 

components; and (c) content control –  pertaining to the kind of material and to the depth 

at which the material should be studied (Jarvey and Cote, 1999).  

 

 

3

Navigation support is a critical design issue in hypermedia learning systems (Bateman 

and Harvey, 1998; Rogers and Erickson, 1998). In respect of this issue, hypermedia 

environments provide various support for learners to structure their navigation strategies, 

including advanced organizers (Shapiro, 1999), graphical overviews (de Jong and van 

der Hulst, 2002) and structural cues (Nilsson and Mayer, 2002; Hsu and Schwen, 2003). 

 

These features may make hypermedia able to provide a rich learning environment. 

However, these same features can also cause problems for some students because they 

may feel overwhelmed with too many choices. For example, they may be bombarded 

with non-linear structure and not know where to navigate next (Nielsen, 2000). 

Therefore, the value of hypermedia learning depends on each individual and an 

understanding of learners’ individual differences arguably becomes an important 

consideration in hypermedia learning. In particular, many studies have found that 

learners with different levels of prior knowledge benefit differently from hypermedia 

learning systems, with experts and novices showing different perceptions to the use of 

hypermedia learning systems and requiring different levels of navigational support (Shin 

et al., 1994; McDonald and Stevenson, 1998a, 1998b; Calisir and Gurel, 2003).  In other 

words, prior knowledge can determine how a learner acquires information from 

hypermedia and influence his/her learning effectiveness in hypermedia systems 

(Alexander et al., 1994; Last et al., 2001). Learners’ prior knowledge includes levels of 

computing skills appropriate to the system, (i.e. system experience) and existing 

understanding of the content area  (i.e. domain knowledge). The former refers to the 

users’ knowledge of the system being used, including the general computing experience 

and experience using hypermedia and the Web; the latter refers to users’ understanding 

of the content of the material presented in the hypermedia system (Lazonder, 2000). 

 

4

Previous studies have indicated that both have an impact on hypermedia learning, which 

will be discussed in the following sections. 

 
2.2 System Experience 

In the past few years, several studies have examined the impact of system experience on 

hypermedia learning. Among the various variables explained in previous studies, 

navigation performance and navigation behaviour are the main issues discussed in 

previous works. In terms of navigation performance, a study by Ford and Chen (2000) 

looked at the effect of individual differences on users’ navigation behaviours and 

learning performance when using an educational hypermedia system.  They found users 

with higher system experience could browse more pages and could reach more detailed 

levels of the subject content than those with lower levels of system experience. 

Furthermore, Torkzadeh and Van Dyke (2002) examined the change in users’ Internet 

self-efficacy between before and after their computer training, with the results of their 

study indicating that computer training significantly improved Internet self-efficacy. In 

other words, when the users transfer from low experience to high experience, their 

Internet self-efficacy will be increased.  

 
In addition, Lazonder et al. (2000) investigated the differences between novices and 

experts in searching for information on the Web. 25 fourth-grade students were divided 

into novice and expert classes on the basis of self-reported Web experience and a 

proficiency test.  They found that experts performed significantly faster and better on 

searches for sites using a search engine than did novices. Other studies also found similar 

results, including Fidel et al. (1999) and Hill and Hannafin (1997). In general, these 

studies suggest that users with more system experience have more efficient navigation 

 

5

strategies than users with less experience. However, a study conducted by Fitzgerald and 

Semrau (1998) obtained contradictory results. They compared the process and outcomes 

of novice and expert teachers in a hypermedia-based learning program, which allowed 

students non-linear learning and free access to information. The results of this study 

revealed that novice teachers outperformed experts, leading Fitzgerald and Semrau 

(1998) to conclude that the users’ performance will be not only dependent on the user 

but the particular system being used.  

 
With regard to navigation behaviours, numerous studies have shown that learners with 

differing degrees of system experience have been shown differentially to prefer linear 

and non-linear pathways through a hypermedia program. For example, Reed and 

Oughton (1998) found that a low level of system experience had been linked to a 

preference for linear pathways through a hypermedia program, while a high level of 

system experience had been correlated with the choice of non-linear pathways.  

Moreover, Pazzani (1991) also demonstrated the importance of system experience in 

hypermedia learning, finding that experts profited most from a flexible path, whereas 

novices benefited most from a more structured path.  This result is consistent with the 

study by Gerdes (1997), which found that a linear structure is more suitable for novices.  

 
In addition to linear and non-linear paths, studies have also found that system experience 

influences the choice of navigation strategy. Farrell and Moore (2001) investigated 

whether the use of different navigation tools (linear, main menu and search engine) 

influenced users’ achievement and attitude. The results indicated a significant difference 

for experts using the search engine. Other studies have also shown that experts are more 

likely to make use of advanced search options, such as Boolean operators (Holscher and 

 

6

Strube, 2000) and “jump” tools (e.g. Go, History, and Bookmark) (Kim, 2001). Novices, 

on the other hand, tend to be less flexible in their navigation strategies (Hill and 

Hannafin, 1997; Vassileva, 1996), and often return to previous stages of their search 

rather than attempt to use different strategies (Holscher and Strube, 2000). 

 
2.3 Domain Knowledge 

As with system experience, domain knowledge of the subject content has been shown to 

have an important influence on hypermedia learning, both in terms of the differences 

exhibited in navigation behaviour and disorientation problems. In terms of navigation 

behaviour, several studies report superior performance of domain experts over domain 

novices, especially efficiency and effectiveness (Marchionini, 1995;  Patel, Drury, and 

Shalin, 1998). Furthermore, domain knowledge has been found to positively correlate 

with the number of navigational moves and the level of depth explored in the subject 

hierarchy (Chen and Ford, 1998). Furthermore, individuals with a lower level of domain 

knowledge have been shown to use longer queries (the number of words used to search) 

than those with higher domain knowledge (Holscher and Strube, 2000). In addition, 

whilst both users with high and low levels of knowledge benefit from navigational aids, 

users with a lower level of domain knowledge tend to rely on navigational aids more 

than those with a higher level of domain knowledge (McDonald and Stevenson, 1998b). 

 
In respect of disorientation problems, previous studies have found that learners’ domain 

knowledge influences the degree of disorientation in hypermedia systems.  Last et al. 

(2001) conducted a qualitative study of 12 undergraduates where the levels of students’ 

prior domain knowledge were decided by identifying whether they had had prior 

exposure to the material.  They found that students with high domain knowledge of the 

 

7

subject content were better able to navigate easily, remember where they had been, and 

decide how to get to where they wanted to go.  These students reported more positive 

feelings about using the system than did the low domain knowledge students and seemed 

to suffer much less from frustration while performing their tasks.  The students with low 

domain knowledge often suffered from disorientation, not knowing where they had been, 

or where they could go to find the information that they needed.   

 

Another study by McDonald and Stevenson (1998a) examined the effects of domain 

knowledge on hypermedia navigation and showed that subjects who lacked sufficient 

domain knowledge of the text topic demonstrated more disorientation problems than 

subjects with high domain knowledge.  Non-knowledgeable learners tended to open 

more additional notes, which indicated that they could not remember where they had 

been and had problems in finding the information that they required. The studies 

described above are consistent in suggesting that non-knowledgeable users experience 

more disorientation problems in hypermedia learning. Compared with non-

knowledgeable users, knowledgeable users may experience fewer disorientation 

problems in hypermedia because their deep levels of understanding of the subject matter 

enable them to impose structure on the hypermedia content (McDonald and Stevenson, 

1998a). Mohageg (1992) asserted that knowledgeable users navigating in a hypermedia 

system might avoid disorientation because they already possess a mental representation 

of the concepts in the domain that they are searching.  Therefore, there is a need to 

provide non-knowledgeable users with appropriate navigational support that reduces 

disorientation problems.   

 

 

8

In addition to the results of the aforementioned studies, which suggest that students with 

different levels of prior knowledge have different perceptions of hypermedia leaning, 

several studies have indicated that students performed better in learning environments of 

which they had more positive perceptions (Fullerton, 2000; Chen, 2002; Ghinea and 

Chen, 2003). Therefore, there is a need to conduct further studies to identify the 

perceptions of students possessing different levels of prior knowledge; the results of 

these studies might help to guide the development and evaluation of hypermedia learning 

systems. This paper presents such a study, which aims to examine the influence of 

system experience and domain knowledge on students’ learning performance and 

perception of a hypermedia tutorial, and subsequently discusses how to match relevant 

system attributes with the needs of knowledgeable and non-knowledgeable students.  

 

3.1 Participants 

3. Research Design 

The participants in the study were 74 undergraduate students enrolled in an 

undergraduate Computer Science course at a university in London. All were taking the 

subject ‘Computation and Algorithms’ and they represented 37 percent of the students on 

the course. The students were each paid £5 for their participation and were further 

motivated to take part in the experiment by being told that the tutorial might help them to 

learn the material associated with the subject.   

 

 

9

3.2 Instruments 

3.2.1 Hypermedia Tutorial 

A hypermedia tutorial was created containing material from the ‘Computation and 

Algorithms’ module.  The tutorial included about 60 pages and the content was divided 

into six sections.  Interface elements included: (a) a title bar located at the top of the 

screen showing the section name being viewed; (b) a control panel with the choices for 

menu, map, index, and the other available sections; and (c) the main body of the tutorial, 

providing referenced links and subject categories for selection. Figure 1 shows the screen 

design of this tutorial. 

 

 

{Insert Figure 1} 

The design of this tutorial was underpinned by considerations of non-linear interaction 

and learner control. The tutorial provided the students with rich links within the text, as 

well as a variety of navigation tools, including a map, an index, and a menu. In addition, 

each topic was further split into four subject categories, comprising: (a) overview; (b) 

pseudocode; (c) example; and (d) analysis. There were two types of overview, a general 

content overview and overviews for each specific topic. In this way, the students were 

given the freedom to decide their own learning paths and choose their favourite 

navigation tools and preferred content presentation so that their perceptions of non-linear 

interaction, navigation support, and content presentation could be identified by 

examining their replies to items in the questionnaire.   

 

 

10

3.2.2 Questionnaires 

Two paper-based questionnaires were created. The first of these (Questionnaire 1) asked 

for background information, such as age, gender, and nationality. In particular, it was 

used to identify the students’ levels of prior knowledge of the subject domain (i.e., the 

‘Computations and Algorithms’ module), for example, how familiar they were with the 

module, how much they understand about this module from the lectures, and so on. It 

also asked about their system experience, and enjoyment of using computers, the Web, 

and Computer Aided Learning (CAL) programs, for example, how frequently they used 

computers and the Web and how much they enjoyed using the computers, the Web and 

the CAL. A five-point Likert scale was applied to identify users’ prior domain 

knowledge and system experience. 

 

The second questionnaire (Questionnaire 2) asked the students about their perceptions of 

the hypermedia tutorial. According to the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) (Ajzen and 

Fishbein, 1975), which has been used widely to predict behaviour, perceptions are 

defined as perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, preferences and willingness. On 

the basis of this theory, the questionnaire was designed to identify a wide range of user 

perceptions of the hypermedia tutorial, such as “subject content”, “functionality and 

usability” and “navigation support”. This meant that features of the system relevant to 

learner control, non-linearity, and navigation features could be assessed, allowing for a 

deeper analysis of any problems encountered by the participants. The relationships 

between the TRA and the questionnaire design are illustrated in Table 1.   

 

 

 

{Insert Tables 1 Here} 

11

The questionnaire included three open-ended questions and 42 closed statements to 

collect students’ responses to the hypermedia tutorial.  Of the 42 closed statements, 18 

were positively phrased (e.g., “I found the suggested route through this tutorial helpful”) 

and 24 were negatively phrased (e.g., “I felt the structure of the tutorial was not clear”). 

In other words, the number of positively and negatively phrased questions was almost 

balanced, in an attempt to reduce bias in the questionnaire. All statements used a five-

point Likert Scale consisting of: ‘strongly agree’; ‘agree’; ‘neutral’; ‘disagree’; and 

‘strongly disagree’. Students were required to indicate agreement or disagreement with 

each statement by placing a check mark at the response alternative that most closely 

reflected their opinion. 

 

 

3.2.3 Pre-Test and Post-Test 

 

The Pre-test and post-test were designed to assess the participants’ level of knowledge of 

the subject domain both before and after using the hypermedia tutorial. Students were 

evaluated with a pre-test to examine their levels of prior knowledge of the subject 

domain and with a post-test to assess learning achievement.  Both included 20 multiple-

choice questions, each with four different answers and a “don’t know” option, from 

which the students could choose only one.  

 
The questions were matched on the pre-test and post-test so that each question on the 

pre-test had a corresponding similar (but not the same) question on the post-test. 

Creating similar questions on the post-test was achieved by either re-writing the question 

(e.g., “Pseudocode usually doesn’t include:” re-written as “Which of the following 

would you commonly find in pseudocode:”) or, where appropriate, by substituting 

 

12

different numbers into the questions (e.g., “Using Quick sort on the following list of 

numbers, 3, 5, 2, 1, 6, the pivot would be?”  re-written as “Using Quick sort on the 

following list of numbers, 4, 5, 7, 3, 1, the pivot would be?”). 

 
3.3 Procedure 

The experiment was carried out over a number of sessions during a three-week period in 

November 2002. Each student took part in one session only. Each session contained a 

group of students, each working individually. The procedure for the experiment was as 

follows: 

 

1.  On entering the room, the students were asked to sit in front of a computer and 

read a printed sheet of paper detailing the instructions for the experiment (what 

they would be asked to do, and for how long). 

2.  Students were then handed the first questionnaire (Questionnaire 1) to complete. 

3.  After completing the questionnaire, the students were given the pre-test to 

complete. The students were given a maximum of 15 minutes to complete the 

pre-test. 

4.  On completion of the pre-test, the students were asked to use the hypermedia 

tutorial to aid them in the learning of the module content. They were given a task 

sheet containing various exercises related to the content of the module. They 

were informed that completing this task sheet was optional and were allowed to 

use the hypermedia tutorial for a maximum of one hour. 

5.  After using the hypermedia tutorial, the students were given the post-test to 

complete. As with the pre-test, they were allowed a maximum of 15 minutes to 

complete this. 

 

13

6.  Finally, after the post-test, the students were given another questionnaire 

(Questionnaire 2). On completion of the second questionnaire, the students were 

thanked for their participation and they left. 

 
3.4 Data Analysis 

A between-subjects design was used. The between-subjects factors were the students’ 

prior system experience and domain knowledge. The dependent variables included 

learning performance and learning perceptions. The former was measured by a gain 

score, which was calculated as the post-test score minus the pre-test score.  The latter 

was determined by the students’ responses to the various questions about the tutorial 

from Questionnaire 2. All questionnaire responses, where appropriate, were scored as 5 

for “strongly agree” through to 1 for “strongly disagree”. Two-way ANOVA was used to 

find the interaction effects of domain knowledge and system experience on students’ 

learning performance and learning perceptions. Pearson correlations were carried out to 

find the relationships between pre-test score and gain score. A significance level of 0.05 

was adopted. 

 

4. Results and Discussion  

4.1 Measures of Prior Knowledge 

Two types of prior knowledge were considered in this study: domain expertise and 

system expertise. Both were measured with the questionnaire (see the section of 

questionnaires). To measure domain expertise, the students were asked how familiar they 

were with the module, how much they understand about the module from the lectures, 

and so on. To measure system expertise, the students were requested to say how much 

 

14

they enjoy using the web and computer-based learning packages, and how frequently 

they use the computers, and so on.  The results of the two-way ANOVAs showed that 

there was no significant interaction between domain expertise and system expertise 

(P>0.05).  

 

However, there was an interesting relationship between a subjective measure of domain 

expertise from the questionnaire and an objective measure of domain expertise from the 

pre-test score. In general, there was a consistency between these two measures. One 

example is that responses to the question, “How much have you understood about this 

module from your lectures?” had a significant interaction with pre-test performance 

(P<0.05).  In addition, there was also a significant interaction between the question 

“How familiar are you with the contents of this module?” and the Pre-Test score  

(P<0.01). Those students who had a greater understanding from the lectures and had a 

higher familiarity with the module content obtained better scores from the Pre-Test. 

These findings reveal that the subjective measure from the questionnaire had the same 

value as the objective measure from the Pre-Test, and this conformance may offer the 

confidence and reliability in the other related findings from this study.    

 
4.2 Overall Learning Performance  

Table 2 presents data on the overall learning performance of the participants. The 

analysis of students’ overall learning performance indicates that the students’ Post-Test 

scores were positively related to pre-test scores (P<0.001). However, an unexpected 

finding, inconsistent with those of some previous studies (Ford and Chen, 2000; 2001), is 

that the gain score was found to be negatively correlated with pre-test performance 

 

15

(P<0.001). This shows that those who performed poorly on the pre-test were more likely 

to make a greater improvement on the post-test than those who performed relatively 

better on the pre-test.  

 
The result suggests that those with a lower level of domain knowledge gained more 

benefit from this tutorial than those with an initially higher level of domain knowledge. 

This is probably because most of the content of the tutorial came from the lecture notes 

for the module. In other words, the tutorial works as a reinforcement of the lectures, 

which can help the non-knowledgeable students build a solid grounding by recalling 

what they have already learnt from the lecture. Conversely, the tutorial is less useful to 

the knowledgeable students, who may be seeking to learn additional new material that is 

not offered in the tutorial. 

 

{Insert Table 2 Here} 

 
These findings suggest that an effective hypermedia tutorial provide subject content that 

is suitable for both non-knowledgeable and knowledgeable students. The former need to 

enhance their understanding with the basic material included in the lectures, whereas the 

latter are interested in more advanced material excluded from the lectures. In addition, 

the hypermedia tutorial should allow the students to easily differentiate levels of subject 

content based on their prior knowledge. One of the possible approaches is to point out 

the actual level in the content with different background colours so that students can 

jump to the different levels by identifying the colours (Reuter, Doebner, and Moller, 

1998). Another approach is to provide annotated links, which use pop-up windows to list 

the pre-requisite concepts. This approach can help students understand the role of a 

particular page and the relationships between items in the subject matter so that they can 

 

16

successfully find the appropriate and coherent paths (Lewis and Polson, 1990). A final 

approach is to present the subject content using hierarchical maps, which provide 

learners with structural cues between concepts, and can help learners to integrate their 

knowledge (Nilsson and Mayer, 2002). In particular, hierarchical maps can help novices 

to structure the material (Calisir and Gurel, 2003).  

 
4.3 Domain Knowledge and Content Presentation 

It seems that the levels of the students’ domain knowledge of the subject content 

influence their perceptions of the content presentation. In analysing the participants’ 

responses to the question of whether they would have liked there to be more examples, 

the result showed that the main effects of students’ familiarity with the module was 

significant at P<0.05. In addition, a significant main effect for considering the difficulties 

of the module was also found at P<0.01. Table 3 shows the scales’ Mean scores and 

Standard Deviation (SD). The students who had higher familiarity with, and low 

difficulties in relation to, the module did not need more examples. Conversely, the 

students who were not familiar with the module and found the module more difficult 

would have liked there to be more examples. One of the possible reasons is that 

examples represent the ‘wholeness’ of the content, which is beneficial to novice students 

who fail to integrate subject ‘pieces’ into a whole (Simmons and Lunetta, 1993). The 

other reason is that examples are down-to-earth material and demonstrate the subject 

content with practical information. In other words, the students can acquire knowledge in 

a realistic context. In this way, less effort is needed to integrate ideas and concepts and 

learner can immediately apply what they have learnt. 

 

 

{Insert Table 3 Here} 

17

 
Another interesting finding was indicated in the question that asked whether the tutorial 

was easier to understand than a book. The main effect of familiarity with the module was 

also found to be significant at P<0.05. The students with high familiarity with the 

module did not consider that the tutorial was easier to understand than a book (Table 3). 

This may be because these knowledgeable students need more advanced material beyond 

the lecture content covered by the tutorial. Therefore, they might think that the books 

could help them to broaden their understanding of the subject easily, and this suggests 

that the hypermedia tutorial should not only provide the content of the lecture material, 

but should also include the reading list. In addition, the reading list should be able to 

adapt to the students’ knowledge level by using linking hiding (Ng, et al., 2002), with the 

number of documents shown based on the student’s knowledge level. In other words, the 

knowledgeable students can be allowed to access a wide range of pertinent documents, 

whilst the less-knowledgeable students will be restricted to a subset of the available 

documents. This may help the less-knowledgeable students to reduce information 

overload.  

 
4.4 System Experience and Non-linear Interaction 

When analysing the students’ responses to how they considered that the links could help 

them to understand relationships between topics and how they liked being able to choose 

topics according to their own needs, the results showed that there was a significant main 

effect (P<0.05) of enjoyment in using the Web. Table 4 shows the scales’ mean scores 

and SD. This suggests that those who enjoy the Web are less likely to struggle with the 

non-linearity of hypermedia. Since favourable attitudes towards the Web are linked to 

familiarity with the Web (Liaw, 2002), those who enjoy using the Web use it more than 

 

18

those who experience less enjoyment, and they therefore are more familiar and more 

comfortable with the non-linearity.  

 

{Insert Tables 4 Here} 

 
On the other hand, in relation to questions of the tutorial’s structure and navigational 

complexity (in terms of knowing which links corresponded to the information that the 

students wanted), the results indicated that those who enjoy using the Web less showed 

more negative responses. The main effect of enjoyment in using the Web was found to 

be significant at P<0.05. The scales’ mean scores and SD are presented in Table 4. 

Previous research suggests that individuals with a low level of system experience are 

more likely to have trouble with non-linear navigation, in terms of getting lost 

(Beishuizen et al., 1994) and becoming disorientated (Chen and Ford, 1998). If Web 

enjoyment is considered as an indicator of Web experience, then the findings from this 

experiment are consistent with these findings. 

 
The findings of the aforementioned studies and current research raise a challenge in how 

to help novices enjoy non-linear learning and reduce their disorientation problems.  One 

way to solve this problem is to provide structural aids that inform users of what 

information is available, as well as where it may be located and how it may be organised 

(Hsu and Schwen, 2003). In addition, a systematic visual overview that represents the 

basic and inherent structure of the domain can help them to develop a better route for the 

acquisition of the information in the subject domain (de Jong and van der Hulst, 2002).  

Other solutions include advice treatment to provide recommendation on the sequence to 

follow through the material (Shin et al., 1994) and advanced organizers to provide 

indications of the relationships between topics (Farrell and Moore, 2001).  

 

19

5. Concluding Remarks 

Different users have different needs with regard to hypermedia learning. It is important 

to understand whether these needs are due to different experience with the system or to 

levels of knowledge. As suggested by Torkzadeh and Lee (2003), understanding users’ 

prior knowledge can influence the system success directly and indirectly.  The paper has 

followed this line to examine the relationships between prior knowledge and student 

learning in hypermedia systems.  The main conclusions include: (a) the students with 

lower domain knowledge gain more benefits from the hypermedia tutorial than those 

with higher prior knowledge; (b) examples are useful vehicles for the students with low 

levels of domain knowledge; and (c) the students who enjoy the Web and web-based 

learning are more able to cope with the non-linear interaction. As these results suggest, 

some students may need greater support and guidance from instructors, while others may 

be able to follow hypermedia tutorials relatively independently. The results also suggest 

that students with different levels of prior knowledge have different perceptions of the 

features of the hypermedia tutorial, indicating the need to be aware of students’ prior 

knowledge when planning for hypermedia tutorials in educational settings.   Thus, 

instructors should not assume that every student will benefit equally from hypermedia 

learning in educational settings. There remains the need for guidance to ensure that all 

students can meet the learning objectives set by instructors. It is therefore important to 

consider versatility in system design to allow for use by a variety of individuals, rather 

than a particular user group. 

 
This study has shown the importance of understanding the students’ prior knowledge in 

the development of hypermedia tutorials, but it was only a small-scale study. Further 

 

20

studies need to be undertaken with a larger sample to provide additional evidence. The 

other direction for further work arising from this study is whether it is true that the Web 

enjoyment can be linked to system experience.  In addition, there is a need for future 

research to examine why less-knowledgeable students made a greater improvement than 

knowledgeable students.  This may, for example, have been because the less-

knowledgeable students chose not to attend the lectures. It would also be interesting to 

compare the perceptions of students who attend the lectures with those of the students 

who do not attend. Gathering information on these issues through further work can help 

clarify the findings from the present study. Moreover, the findings of studies looking at 

these areas could be integrated to build robust learning models for the development of 

personalised hypermedia tutorials that can accommodate the needs of students with 

different levels of domain expertise and system expertise.   

 

Acknowledgements 

The authors are grateful for Professor Xiaohui Liu’s help with this study and for the 

support of the EPSRC (Grant number: GR/R57737/01) for funding this project. 

 
References 

Ajzen, I & Fishbein, M. (1975) Belief, Attitude, Intention and Behavior: An Introduction 

to Theory and Research. Reading, Mass: Addison-Wesley. 

Alexander P. A, Kulikowich J. M. and Jetton T. L. (1994) The role of subject-mater 

knowledge and interest in the processing of linear and nonlinear texts. Review of 
Educational Research 64, 201-252 

Barua S. (2001) An interactive multimedia system on “Computer Architecture, 
Organization, and Design”. IEEE Transactions on Education  44, 41-46. 

 

21

Bateman W. E. & Harvey F. A. (1998) . Hypermedia navigation: Where do we go from 
here? Paper presented at the Association for Educational Communications and 
Technology, St. Louis. 

Beishuizen J., Stoutjesdijk E., & Van Putten K. (1994) Studying textbooks: effects of 

learning styles, study task and instruction. Learning and Instruction  4, 151-174. 

Calisir F. & Gurel Z. (2003) Influence of text structure and prior knowledge of the 

learner on reading comprehension, browsing and perceived control. Computers in 
Human Behavior 19, 135-145. 

Chen S. Y & Ford N (1998) Modelling user navigation behaviours in a hypermedia-

based learning system: an individual differences approach. International Journal 
of Knowledge Organization  25, 67-78.  

Chen S. Y. & Angelides M. C. (2003) Customisation of internet multimedia information 
systems design through user modelling, in: Architectural Issues of Web-Enabled 
Electronic Business, N.S. Shi and V.K. Murthy, Eds., Idea Group Publishing, 
Hearshey, Pennsylvania, 241-255. 

Chen S. Y. & Macredie R. D. (2004) Cognitive modelling of student learning in web-
based instructional programmes. International Journal of Human-Computer 
Interaction  17, 375-402  

Chen S.Y. & Macredie R.D. (2002). Cognitive styles and hypermedia navigation: 

development of a learning model. Journal of the American Society for 
Information Science and Technology, 53, 1, 3-15.  

Chen S.Y. (2002). A cognitive model for non-linear learning in hypermedia programmes. 

British Journal of Educational Technology 33, 449-460. 

Crook C. (1994). Computers and the collaborative experience of learning. London: 

Routledge. 

de Jong T. & van der Hulst A. (2002) The effects of graphical overviews on knowledge 
acquisition in hypermedia.  Journal of Computer Assisted Learning  18, 219-231. 

Farrell, I. H. &  Moore, D.M. (2001) The effect of navigation tools on learners' 

achievement and attitude in a hypermedia environment. Journal of Educational 
Technology Systems, 29 169-181 

Fidel R., Davies R. K., Douglass M.H., Holder J. K., Hopkins C. J., Kushner E. J., 

Miyagishima B. K., and Toney C. D. (1999). A visit to the information mall: web 
searching behavior of high school students. Journal of the American Society for 
Information Science  50, 1, 24-37. 

Fitzgerald G. E. &  Semrau L.P. (1998). The effects of learner differences on usage 

patterns and learning outcomes with hypermedia case studies. Journal of 
Educational Multimedia and Hypermedia 7,  309-331. 

 

22

Ford N. &  Chen S. Y. (2000) Individual differences, hypermedia navigation and 

learning: an empirical study. Journal of Educational Multimedia and Hypermedia  
9,  281-311 

Ford N. & Chen S. Y. (2001) Matching/mismatching revisited: an empirical study of 

learning and teaching styles. British Journal of Educational Technology   32, 5-
22.  

Fullerton, K. (2000)  The interactive effects of field dependence-independence and 

Internet document manipulation style on student achievement from computer-
based Instruction. Ed.D  Dissertation. University of Pittsburgh. 

Gerdes H. (1997) Learn with text and hypermedia, Pabst, Lengerich. 

Ghinea G. & Chen S. Y. (2003) The impact of cognitive styles on perceptual distributed 

multimedia quality. British Journal of Educational Technology. 34, 393-406. 

Hill J.R.   & Hannafin  M.J. (1997). Cognitive strategies and learning from the World 

Wide Web. Educational Technology Research and Development 45, 37-64. 

Holscher C., & Strube G. (2000). Web search behavior of Internet experts and newbies. 

Computer Networks  33 337-346. 

Hsu, Y. and Schwen, T. (2003)  The effects of structural cues from multiple metaphors 

on computer users' information search performance. International Journal of 
Human-Computer Studies  58, 39-55. 

Jarvey, D. and Cote, D. (1999) The Development of an Instructional Simulation on the 

World Wide Web [http://home.istar.ca/~dicote/projects/ paper.htm, accessed 
February 2001]. 

Jonassen D. H.  (1988).  Designing structured hypertext, and structuring access to 

hypertext.  Educational Technology  28, 13-16. 

Khalifa M.  & Lam R. (2002). Web-based learning: effects on learning process and 

outcome. IEEE Transactions on Education, 45, 350-356. 

Kim, K. (2001)  Implications of user characteristics in information seeking on the world 
wide web. International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, 13, 323-340. 

Large A. (1996) Hypertext instructional programs and learner control: a research review. 

Education for Information, 4, 95- 106. 

Last D. A., O'Donnell A. M. & Kelly A. E. (2001)  The Effects of Prior Knowledge and 
Goal Strength on the use of Hypermedia. Journal of Educational Multimedia and 
Hypermedia  10, 3-25. 

Lawless K. A. & Brown S. W. (1997) Multimedia learning environments: issues of 

learner control and navigation. Instructional Science  25, 117-31.  

 

23

Lazonder A. W., Biemans H. J. A. & Wopereis I. G.. (2000) Differences between novice 
and experienced users in searching information on the world wide web Journal of 
the American Socienty for Information Science and Technology,  51, 576-581. 

Lazonder A.W. (2000) Exploring novice users’ training needs in searching information 

on the WWW. Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 16, 326-335. 

Lewis C. and Polson P. G. (1990) Theory-based design for easily learned interfaces. 

HCI, 5, 191-220.   

Liaw S. S. (2002) An Internet survey for perceptions of computers and the World Wide 

Web: relationship, prediction, and difference. Computers in Human Behavior, 18, 
17-35.  

Littlejohn, A. (2002)  New lessons from past experiences:  recommendations for 

improving continuing professional development in the use of ICT. Journal of 
Computer Assisted Learning 18, 166-174 

Marchionini, G. (1995). Information Seeking in Electronic Environments. Cambridge 

University Press. 

McDonald S., and Stevenson R.J. (1998a). The effects of text structure and prior 

knowledge of the learner on navigation in hypertext. Human Factors, 40, 18 –27. 

McDonald S., and Stevenson R.J. (1998b). Navigation in hyperspace: an evaluation of 
the effects of navigational tools and subject matter expertise on browsing and 
information retrieval in hypertext. Interacting with Computers, 10, 129-142. 

Mohageg M. F. (1992) The influence of hypermedia linking structures on the efficiency 

of information retrieval. Human Factors,  34, 351-367. 

Ng M., Maier P., Armstrong R. & Hall W. (2002). Making Web-Based Learning 

Adaptive. Proceedings of the ED-MEDIA 2002, World Conference on 
Educational Multimedia, Hypermedia & Telecommunication, Denver, Colorado, 
USA June 24-29, 2002 

Nielsen, J. (2000). Designing Web usability: The practice of simplicity. Indianapolis, IN: 

New Riders. 

Nilsson R.M., and Mayer R.E. (2002). The effects of graphic organizers giving cues to 

the structure of a hypertext document on users’ navigation strategies and 
performance. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies  57, 1-26. 

Patel, S.C., Drury, C.G., & Shalin, V.L. (1998). Effectiveness of expert semantic 

knowledge as a navigational aid within hypertext. Behavior and Information 
Technology, 17, 313–324. 

Pazzani M. J. (1991) Influence of prior knowledge on concept acquisition: Experimental 

and computational results Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, 
Memory, and Cognition, 17, 416-432. 

 

24

Reed W.M., & Oughton J.M. (1998). The effects of hypermedia knowledge and learning 
style on the construction of group concept maps. Computers in Human Behavior, 
14, 1-22. 

Reuter, M., Doebner D., and Moller D.P.F. (1998) First experiences  with  ergonomic-
cognitive  structures for the WWW-presentation of the University of Clausthal.  
6th  European  Congress on Intelligent Techniques and Soft Computing. EUFIT 
'98  vol.2    p.1141-1146 ,  Aachen (Germany): Verlag Mainz. 

Rogers, P., and Erickson, M. (1998). Layers of navigation: hypermedia design for an ill-
structured domain. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Association for 
Educational Communications and Technology, St. Louis. 

Schumacher, P. & Morahan-Martin, J. (2001). Gender, Internet and computer attitudes 

and experiences. Computers in Human Behavior  17, 95-110. 

Shapiro A. M. (1999) The relationship between prior knowledge and interactive 

overviews during hypermedia-aided learning. Journal of Educational Computing 
Research  20, 143-167.  

Shin C.E., Schallert D.L.,  and Savenye W.C. (1994). Effects of learner control, 

advisement, and prior knowledge on young students’ learning in a hypertext 
environment. Educational Technology Research and Development, 42, 33-46. 

Simmons P. E., and Lunetta V.N. (1993). Problem-solving behaviors during a genetics 
computer simulation: beyond the expert/novice dichotomy. Journal of Research 
in Science Teaching  30, 2, 153-173. 

Spiro, R. J., Feltovich, P. J., Jacobson, M. J., & Coulson, R. L. (1992). Cognitive 
flexibility, constructivism, and hypertext: Random access instruction for 
advanced knowledge acquisition in ill-structured domains. In T. M. Duffy & D. 
H. Jonassen (Eds.), Constructivism and the technology of instruction: A 
conversation (pp. 57-76). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawerence Erlbaum Associates 

Spyridakis J. H., and Isakson C. S. (1991). Hypertext: a new tool and its effect on 

audience comprehension. IEEE-IPCC, p. 37-44. 

Torkzadeh G., & Van Dyke, T.P. (2002). Effects of training on Internet self-efficacy and 

computer user attitudes. Computers in Human Behavior, 18, 479-494. 

Torkzadeh, G. and Lee, J. (2003) Measures of perceived end-user computing skills.  

Information & Management. 40, 607-615.  

Vassileva J. (1996). A task-centered approach for user modelling in a hypermedia office 

documentation system. User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 6, 185-
224. 

 

 

25

Figure 1 Screen Design of the hypermedia tutorial 

 

 

Table 1: TRA and Questionnaire Design 

Dimensions of Perceptions 
from TRA 
Perceived usefulness 

Areas in 
Questionnaire 
General 
Perceptions 

Examples of Closed Statements from 
Questionnaire 
The tutorial is only useful for students who 
are already familiar with algorithms. 

Perceived ease of use 

Navigation Support 

This tutorial covers computation and 
algorithms very well. 

I found it easy to get lost using this 
tutorial. 

It was difficult to know which links 
corresponded to the information I wanted. 

Willingness 

Functionality and 
Usability 

I would like to learn from a human tutor 
rather than from this tutorial. 

Preferences 

It is much easier to understand algorithms 
by using this tutorial than by reading a 
book, because it is interactive. 
I would have liked there to be more 
examples. 
I did not like the colours used for this 
tutorial. 

Subject Content 

Presentation 
Layout 

 

26

Table 2: Overall Learning Performance 
Maximum Mean 

 
Score of Pre-test 
Score of Post-test 
Gain Score 

Minimum
2.00
1.00
-6.00

18.00
18.00
6.00

8.43
9.41
.97

SD 

3.62
3.87
2.94

 

Table 3: Domain Knowledge and Content Presentation 

 
 

 

Not at All  Not Much  Neutral  Quite a Lot  Very Much 

4.02 
.527 

2.09 
.455 
Not at All  Not Much  Neutral  Quite a Lot  Very Much 

3.30
.823

2.71
.539

 

3.00
.816

Whether they would have liked there to be more examples 
Familiarities with 
the module 
Mean 
SD 
The difficulties of 
the module 
Mean 
SD 
Whether the tutorial was easier to understand than a book 
Familiarities with 
the module 
Mean 
SD 

3.09 
.527 

3.20 
.398 

3.26
.656

2.36
.505

3.50
.701

2.04
.940

3.91
.578

4.33 
.816 

1.67
.816

1.55 
.552 

Not at All  Not Much  Neutral  Quite a Lot  Very Much 

Table 4: System Experience and Non-linear Interaction 

Statements of the  
Questionnaire 
Links could help them  
understand relationships 
between topics. 
They could choose topics 
according to their own 
needs. 
The structure of the 
tutorial was not clear. 

It was difficult to know 
which links corresponded to 
information they wanted. 
 

Mean 
SD 

Mean 
SD 

Mean 
SD 

Mean 
SD 

Enjoyment in Using the Web 

2.10
.449

2.09
.944

2.59
.888

2.91
.539

3.17 
.983 

Not at All  Not Much Neutral  Quite a Lot  Very Much 
3.82
.874
 
3.20
.398
 
2.30
.160
 
2.00
.183
 

3.03 
.030 

2.41 
.152 

2.89 
.701 

3.30
.539

2.18
.751

3.19
.681

3.69
.823

3.63
.169

1.50
.548

4.00
.414

4.01
.160

 

27

