Developmental Psychology
2007, Vol. 43, No. 5, 1124 –1139

Copyright 2007 by the American Psychological Association
0012-1649/07/$12.00 DOI: 10.1037/0012-1649.43.5.1124

Can Being Scared Cause Tummy Aches? Naive Theories, Ambiguous

Evidence, and Preschoolers’ Causal Inferences

Laura E. Schulz and Elizabeth Baraff Bonawitz

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Thomas L. Griffiths

University of California, Berkeley

Causal learning requires integrating constraints provided by domain-specific theories with domain-
general statistical learning. In order to investigate the interaction between these factors, the authors
presented preschoolers with stories pitting their existing theories against statistical evidence. Each child
heard 2 stories in which 2 candidate causes co-occurred with an effect. Evidence was presented in the
form: AB 3 E; CA 3 E; AD 3 E; and so forth. In 1 story, all variables came from the same domain;
in the other, the recurring candidate cause, A, came from a different domain (A was a psychological cause
of a biological effect). After receiving this statistical evidence, children were asked to identify the cause
of the effect on a new trial. Consistent with the predictions of a Bayesian model, all children were more
likely to identify A as the cause within domains than across domains. Whereas 3.5-year-olds learned only
from the within-domain evidence, 4- and 5-year-olds learned from the cross-domain evidence and were
able to transfer their new expectations about psychosomatic causality to a novel task.

Keywords: domain-general and domain-specific causal learning, Bayesian models, naive theories, am-
biguous evidence, psychosomatic causes

Supplemental materials: http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0012-1649.43.5.1124.supp

By the time children are 5 years old, they understand causal
relationships in a variety of domains (Flavell, Green, & Flavell,
1995; Gelman & Wellman, 1991; Gopnik & Meltzoff, 1997;
Inagaki & Hatano, 1993; Kalish, 1996; Perner, 1991; Shultz, 1982;
Spelke, Breinlinger, Macomber, & Jacobson, 1992). Many re-
searchers have suggested that children’s causal knowledge can be
best characterized as a set of naive theories: abstract, coherent
representations of causal structure that support prediction, inter-
vention, explanation, and counterfactual claims (Carey, 1985;
Gopnik, 1988; Gopnik & Meltzoff, 1997; Harris, German, & Mills,
1996; Hickling & Wellman, 2001; Keil, 1989; Perner, 1991; Sobel,
2004; Wellman, 1990; Wellman, Hickling, & Schult, 1997). The
view that children’s causal representations resemble scientific the-
ories (the theory theory) suggests both that patterns of evidence
should affect children’s causal commitments and that children’s
causal commitments should affect their interpretation of evidence.
Indeed,
this dynamic relationship between domain-appropriate

Laura E. Schulz and Elizabeth Baraff Bonawitz, Department of Brain
and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Thomas L.
Griffiths, Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley.
This research was supported by a James H. Ferry Jr. Fund for Innovation
in Research Education Award and a McDonnell Foundation Collaborative
Initiative Causal Learning grant to Laura E. Schulz. We thank Darlene
Ferranti, Noah Goodman, Kate Hooppell, Adrianna Jenkins, Rebecca Saxe,
Josh Tenenbaum, and Wendy Wienerman for helpful comments and sug-
gestions. We are also very grateful to the Discovery Center at the Museum
of Science, Boston, and participating parents and children.

Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Laura E.
Schulz, 46-4011, Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA
02139. E-mail: lschulz@mit.edu

causal beliefs and evidence has been taken as a defining feature of
theories (e.g., Gopnik & Meltzoff, 1997).
However, despite the expectation that

theory and evidence
should interact, developmental psychologists have been largely
divided between accounts of causal reasoning emphasizing either
domain-specific causal knowledge or domain-general
learning
from data. Thus, some researchers have suggested that children’s
naive theories might be generated by domain-specific modules
(Leslie, 1994; Scholl & Leslie, 1999) or innate concepts in core
domains (Carey & Spelke, 1994; Keil, 1995), whereas other re-
searchers have focused on children’s ability to learn causal rela-
tions from statistical evidence (Gopnik et al., 2004; Gopnik, Sobel,
Schulz, & Glymour, 2001; Schulz & Gopnik, 2004; Shultz &
Mendelson, 1975; Siegler & Liebert, 1975; Sobel, Tenenbaum, &
Gopnik, 2004; Watson & Ramey, 1972). Although some research
on the development of scientific reasoning has emphasized the
importance of integrating domain-specific knowledge with
domain-general strategies (Barrett, Abdi, Murphy, & Gallagher,
1993; Klahr & Dunbar, 1988; Koslowski, 1996; Koslowski, Oka-
gaki, Lorenz, & Umbach, 1989; Pazzani, 1991; Penner & Klahr,
1996; Schauble, 1990), those studies have focused primarily on
adolescents and adults. Surprisingly little research has looked at
how prior theories and evidence interact in young children’s causal
learning.

Moreover, the few studies that have directly compared pre-
schoolers’ domain-specific and domain-general causal learning
have generated contradictory results. Some studies suggest that
children privilege domain-specific mechanism information over
domain-general evidence. Work by Shultz (1982), for instance,
suggests that preschoolers will override covariation evidence to
base causal judgments on the presence or absence of domain-
appropriate mechanisms of transmission. For example, in one

1124

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1125

study, Shultz showed children a candle with a screen around it. He
turned on a fan and then 5 s later turned on a second fan. While
turning on the second fan, he moved the screen away from the first
fan. The candle extinguished. When children were asked which fan
extinguished the candle, children chose the first fan, which was in
a position to transmit energy to the candle, rather than the second
fan, whose activation was temporally contiguous with the effect.
This was taken as evidence that children’s causal judgments are
more influenced by domain-specific information than domain-
general cues, like temporal contiguity. Note, however, that some
domain-general information (e.g., the temporal contiguity between
removing the screen from the first fan and the candle extinguish-
ing) may have reinforced the domain-specific information about
mechanisms of transmission. Thus, it is not clear whether children
genuinely privileged the domain-specific information or whether
both types of information contributed to children’s judgments.

In contrast to the Shultz (1982) studies, other work suggests that
preschoolers can use domain-general
information to override
domain-specific theories. Research suggests, for instance, that
4-year-olds are able to use patterns of conditional dependence and
independence to learn that talking to a machine, rather than push-
ing a button, will make the machine activate or that a block can
activate a toy, not through contact, but at a distance (Kushnir &
Gopnik, 2007; Schulz & Gopnik, 2004). However, in these studies,
the evidence strongly favored the implausible (domain-
inappropriate) cause. Target effects never occurred spontaneously
and did occur when the domain-inappropriate candidate cause was
present by itself. In these contexts, children’s prior knowledge
seemed to have no effect on their inferences: Children were able to
learn causal relationships that violated domain boundaries as easily
as within-domain relations. However, judgments made in the face
of such unambiguous evidence may not provide either a particu-
larly strong test of domain-general learning mechanisms or a
particularly nuanced look at how theories affect the interpretation
of statistical data. Thus, although some studies seem to suggest the
relative strength of domain-specific knowledge over domain-
general learning mechanisms and others suggest the opposite, little
research has closely investigated the interaction between the two.
Adding to the complexity, many researchers have suggested that
the relationship between theory and evidence may be poorly un-
derstood even by older children and naive adults (Chen & Klahr,
1999; Inhelder & Piaget, 1958; Klahr & Dunbar, 1989; Kuhn,
1989; Kuhn, Amsel, & O’Laughlin, 1988; Masnick & Klahr,
2003). For instance, some research suggests that adults interpret
identical evidence differently depending on whether the data sup-
port or conflict with a favored theory. Thus, if two candidate
causes are both independent of an effect, learners will cite in-
stances of co-occurrence as evidence for the relationship consistent
with their theories and instances of non-co-occurrence as evidence
against the relationship incommensurate with their theories (Kuhn,
1989).

Critically, however, such differential treatment of evidence need
not be irrational: Small amounts of data (e.g., seeing a vase
floating in midair) may suffice to overturn weakly held beliefs
(that the magic show was canceled) but should leave strong ones
(that unsupported objects fall) intact. To the extent that children’s
causal judgments reflect normative interactions between naive
theories and patterns of evidence, the mixed findings across dif-
ferent studies are perhaps not surprising. On any given task,

children’s causal judgments might accord either with their prior
knowledge or with the patterns of evidence, depending on the
strength of children’s initial theories, the strength of the evidence,
and children’s ability to integrate the two.

A rational answer to the question of how domain-specific the-
ories should interact with statistical evidence can be obtained by
approaching causal learning as a problem of Bayesian inference. In
Bayesian inference, the learner seeks to evaluate a hypothesis, h,
about the process that produced some observed data, D. The
learner’s a priori beliefs about the plausibility of h are expressed in
a prior probability distribution, P(h). The learner seeks to evaluate
the posterior probability of h, P(h|D)—their beliefs about the
plausibility of the hypothesis after taking into account the evidence
provided by D. This can be done by applying Bayes’s rule,

P共h兩D兲 ⫽

P共D兩h兲P共h兲
P共D兩h⬘兲P共h⬘兲

冘

h⬘

(1)

where P(D|h) is the likelihood, indicating the probability of gen-
erating the data D if the hypothesis h were true. (The sum over all
hypotheses in the denominator simply ensures that the result is a
probability distribution.) The posterior distribution directly com-
bines the evidence obtained from D, through the likelihood, with
the learner’s initial beliefs about the plausibility of the hypothesis,
expressed in the prior P(h). In the case of causal learning, we can
imagine prior probabilities being supplied by a domain-specific
theory, stipulating which causal structures are plausible (Tenen-
baum, Griffiths, & Niyogi, 2007; Tenenbaum & Niyogi, 2003).
Thus, Bayesian inference provides a formal account of how
domain-specific theories and domain-general patterns of evidence
might interact to affect children’s beliefs.

Guided by this account, we looked at how statistical evidence
affects children’s causal inferences and how children’s beliefs
about the plausibility of causal hypotheses affect children’s inter-
pretation of data. Because we were interested in interactions be-
tween naive theories and evidence, we gave children evidence that
is formally ambiguous: Children observed events in which two
candidate causes simultaneously covary with the effect. We gave
children a forced choice between the two causes and manipulated
the extent to which each cause was consistent with children’s naive
theories and with the statistical evidence.

Previous research suggests that preschoolers are able to evaluate
evidence of this complexity (i.e., evidence in which candidate
causes are never presented in isolation). In one study, for instance,
a puppet smelled a bouquet consisting of a tulip and a daisy. The
puppet sneezed. The puppet then smelled a bouquet consisting of
a tulip and a violet and the puppet sneezed. Children then saw that
a bouquet consisting of a daisy and a violet did not make the
puppet sneeze. When asked what made the puppet sneeze, children
inferred that the tulip, rather than the other flowers, was the cause
(Schulz & Gopnik, 2004).

Children can also evaluate ambiguous data with respect to the
base rate of candidate causes. Suppose, for instance, children learn
that a toy will light up when particular blocks are placed on top of
the toy. Children learn either that only 2 of 10 blocks activate the
toy (i.e., activating blocks are rare) or they learn that 8 of 10 blocks
activate the toy (activating blocks are common). Children in both
conditions then see 2 novel blocks, red and blue, placed simulta-

1126

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

neously on the toy. The toy activates. Children subsequently see a
red and yellow block placed simultaneously on the toy. Again, the
toy activates. What makes the toy go—just the red block, just the
blue and yellow blocks, or all 3 blocks? If activating objects are
rare, then it is most likely that only a single block (the red one) is
the cause. However, if activating blocks are common, it becomes
more plausible that the blue and yellow block or all 3 blocks are
causes. Research suggests that children’s judgments about activat-
ing blocks are sensitive to such base rate information (Tenenbaum,
Sobel, Griffiths, & Gopnik, 2007). Similarly, suppose that pre-
schoolers see a red block and a blue block together activate a toy
and then see that the red block by itself activates the toy. Children
know the red block is a cause, but what about the blue block? If
activating blocks are rare, children tend to deny that the blue block is
a cause; if activating blocks are common, children are more likely to
think the blue block is also causally effective (Sobel et al., 2004).

Our task was formally similar to the tasks used in these previous
studies. We read children storybooks in which one cause recurs
every day and the other cause is always novel (i.e., the evidence is
in the form AB 3 E; CA 3 E; AD 3 E; etc.). One storybook is
a within-domain story; all variables come from the same domain
and thus all causes are a priori equally plausible. If children can
engage in domain-general statistical learning from patterns of
evidence, we expect that after seeing the evidence, children will
infer that A is more probable than any other single cause. The other
storybook is a cross-domains story: the recurring candidate cause
(A) is domain-inappropriate. Thus, A is less plausible than the
alternative given the children’s naive theories but more plausible
given the pattern of evidence. By comparing children’s judgments
before and after seeing the data, we can evaluate the degree to
which children can overcome the biases induced by their naive
theories.

Because we wanted to investigate processes that might be ap-
plicable to genuine conflicts between theories and evidence, we
chose to look at a context in which preschoolers’ causal beliefs are
robust (and thus might affect children’s interpretation of data) but
distinct from adult beliefs (and thus might change with evidence).
As noted, considerable research suggests that children’s causal
reasoning respects domain boundaries. In particular, many re-
searchers have suggested that children respect an ontological dis-
tinction between mental phenomena and bodily/physical phenom-
ena (Bloom, 2004; Carey, 1985; Estes, Wellman, & Woolley,
1989; Hatano & Inagaki, 1994; Notaro, Gelman, & Zimmerman,
2001; Wellman & Estes, 1986). Indeed, some researchers have
proposed that children may be innate dualists (Bloom, 2004).
Thus, although many adults accept the existence of psychosomatic
phenomena, preschoolers typically deny that psychosomatic reac-
tions are possible (e.g., they deny that feeling embarrassed can
make one blush or that feeling frustrated can cause a headache;
Notaro et al., 2001).

Note that this is not to suggest that children deny all relations
between mental states and bodily events.1 In particular, children do
understand that volitional mental states (e.g., desires and inten-
tions) can cause intentional action (see, e.g., Bartsch & Wellman,
1989; Meltzoff, 1995; Wellman et al., 1997). Indeed, in the context
of voluntary action, bodily events are more typically attributed to
psychological causes (“She kicked the ball because she wanted to
make a goal”) than bodily causes (“She kicked the ball because she
lifted her leg, extended her knee, etc.”). However, by definition,

involuntary bodily events (e.g., tummy aches and headaches) are
not attributed to desires or intentions. Although many adults accept
that involuntary bodily states can be caused by psychological
states like worrying or fear, children seem to attribute involuntary
bodily states exclusively to bodily causes (e.g., illness and injury).
Thus, following Notaro et al. (2001), we investigated children’s
understanding of only a subset of possible relations between psy-
chological and bodily events: cases where a nonvolitional mental
state is the cause of an involuntary bodily reaction.2

We were interested in how preschool children would interpret
formal patterns of evidence suggesting the presence of a psycho-
somatic cause in light of their strong initial belief that psychoso-
matic causality is improbable. Thus, in our within-domain task,
both the candidate causes and the target effect come from the
domain of physiological events. In particular, the candidate causes
are bodily contact with different plants and the effect is “itchy
spots.” In the cross-domains task, all but one of the candidate
causes are physiological events (ingestion of different foods), and
the effect is also a physiological event (a tummy ache). However,
the recurring cause (A) is a psychological event (feeling scared).
Bayesian inference provides us with a rational standard against
which we can compare the judgments of children in this task. In
this case, the hypotheses concern the relationships between the
potential causes and the effect, and the data are the co-occurrences
of causes and effects over the days of the story. The prior proba-
bilities of the hypotheses are determined by children’s naive the-
ories, which we assume allow a greater probability for relation-
ships within a domain than relationships that cross a domain. A
detailed Bayesian model and quantitative predictions of this model
for our task are described in Appendix A. This model makes two
clear qualitative predictions. First, children’s naive theories should
affect their interpretation of the evidence: Children should be less
likely to choose A in the cross-domains task than in the within-
domain task. Second, the evidence should affect children’s beliefs:
Children should be more likely to choose A after seeing the
evidence than at baseline. Earlier research (Sobel et al., 2004)
suggests that older (4-year-olds) but not younger (3-year-olds)
preschoolers are able to integrate knowledge about base rates and
patterns of evidence, so we tested our predictions about the inte-
gration of domain-specific prior knowledge and evidence across a
range of ages: 3-year-olds, 3.5-year-olds, and 4- and 5-year-olds.

Experiment 1

In Experiment 1, we read children two storybooks: a within-
domain story and a cross-domains story. The evidence (presented
in the form AB 3 E; CA 3 E; AD 3 E, etc.) is formally identical
in the two stories. We predicted that children would be more likely
to identify A as a cause when A is domain-appropriate than when
it is domain-inappropriate. However, we also predicted that, for
both stories, children would be more likely to think A is a cause
after seeing the evidence than at baseline.

1 We are grateful to an anonymous reviewer for stressing the importance

of this distinction.

2 Note that this experiment compares only children’s different judgments
about the mind and the body. It does not require children to have a fully
elaborated naive biology (see, e.g., Carey, 1985).

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1127

Figure 1. Sample pages from the within-domain storybook (top panel) and the cross-domains storybook
(bottom panel) used in Experiments 1 and 2.

Method

Participants. Eighty preschoolers were recruited from urban
area preschools and the Discovery Center at a large metropolitan
science museum. Approximately equal numbers of boys and girls
participated (49% girls). Although most children were from White,
middle-class backgrounds, a range of ethnicities resembling the
diversity of the population was represented.

Children were tested in three age groups: 3-year-olds (mean age:
39 months; range: 36 – 41 months), 3.5-year-olds (mean age: 45
months; range: 42– 48 months), and 4- to 5-year-olds (mean age:
60 months; range: 50 –70 months). The wider age range was used
for the oldest age group because pilot work suggested that the
performance of 4- and 5-year-olds did not differ on this task. In
each age group, 16 children were tested after seeing statistical
evidence (the evidence condition). Additionally, 16 4- to 5-year-
olds and 16 3-year-olds (8 in the older group; 8 in the younger
group) were tested before seeing any statistical evidence (the
baseline condition). We tested the 3-year-olds as a single group at
baseline because pilot work suggested no difference in baseline
performance for the youngest two age groups.

Materials. Two storybooks were used in the experiment: a
within-domain book and a cross-domains book. Each storybook
depicted events occurring over the course of a week. Every morn-
ing (Monday–Sunday), two events and an effect occurred. One
event (A) and the effect were repeated every morning; the other
event varied. Each afternoon, two different events occurred, and
the effect failed to occur. (The afternoon events were included to
eliminate the possibility that the effect was always present.) Two
versions of each storybook were created to counterbalance the
order of events.

The within-domain storybook featured a deer (Bambi) who

liked to run in different places. Sample text read,

On Monday morning, Bambi runs in the pine grove. Bambi gets
excited. Bambi runs in the cattails. Bambi has itchy spots on his legs.
On Monday afternoon, Bambi runs in the cedar trees and Bambi plays
on the rope swing. Bambi feels great! Bambi doesn’t have any itchy
spots.

The story continued through the days of the week and ended with,
“On Sunday morning, Bambi runs in the garden. Bambi gets
excited. Bambi runs in the cattails. Bambi has itchy spots on his
legs.”

The cross-domains storybook featured a bunny who was scared
of show-and-tell. Sample text read, “On Monday morning, Bunny
thinks about show-and-tell. Bunny feels scared. Bunny eats some
cheese. Bunny has a tummy ache. On Monday afternoon, Bunny
ties her shoes and Bunny eats strawberries. Bunny feels great.
Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache.” The story continued through
the days of the week and ended with “On Sunday morning, Bunny
thinks about show-and-tell, Bunny feels scared. Bunny eats a
sandwich. Bunny has a tummy ache.”3 See Figure 1 for details and
Appendix B for the full text of the stories.

Procedure. Children were tested individually. The experi-
menter read both the within-domain story and the cross-domains
story to every child (order of stories was counterbalanced among
participants). In the baseline condition, children were read only the

3 In the cross-domains story, the sentence “Bunny thinks about show-
and-tell” precedes the target variable (“Bunny feels scared”) in order to
delimit the onset of the psychological cause. In order to match the evidence
in the two books precisely, we included the sentence “Bambi gets excited”
before the target cause, “Bambi runs in the cattails.” It is possible that the
inclusion of the lead-in sentence aided children in tracking the evidence in
both conditions. However, the inclusion of the lead-in sentence did not
affect children’s causal inferences at baseline, nor can it account for
differences between the within- and cross-domains story.

1128

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

Sunday page of each story. In the evidence condition, children
were read each story in its entirety. At the end of each story,
children were asked a test question. In the within-domain story, the
test question (in one version’s order) was “Why does Bambi have
itchy spots? Is it because of running through the garden or because
of running through the cattails?” In the cross-domains story, one
version of the test question was “Why does Bunny have a tummy
ache? Is it because of feeling scared or eating the sandwich?”

Results

The results are presented in Figure 2. An alpha level of .05 was
used throughout this article, and thus all results reported as sig-
nificant are p ⬍ .05 or better. Preliminary analyses revealed no
order effects. Because our dependent measure was the number of
children making each category choice and we could not be sure the
data met the normality assumptions of parametric tests, we used
categorical tests (binomial and chi-square tests) throughout.

In the 4- and 5-year-old age group (4 years 0 months to 5 years
6 months) in the within-domain task, there was no significant

Figure 2. Children’s responses to the storybook task in Experiment 1.
The vertical axis shows the number of children selecting the different
responses.

difference in the probability with which children chose A or the
alternative in the baseline condition (N ⫽ 16, p ⫽ ns, by binomial
test), but children chose A significantly more often than chance
(indeed, at ceiling) in the evidence condition (N ⫽ 16, by binomial
test). Children were significantly more likely to choose A after
seeing the evidence than at baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 10.67. In the
cross-domains task, children had a significant preference for the
domain-appropriate cause in the baseline condition (N ⫽ 16, by
binomial test) but did not display a statistically significant differ-
ence in their choices of A and the alternative in the evidence
condition (N ⫽ 16, p ⫽ ns, by binomial test). Children were
significantly more likely to choose A after seeing the evidence
than at baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 5.24. Both at baseline and after
seeing the evidence, children were more likely to choose A in the
within-domain than cross-domains task: baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽
5.24; evidence, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 10.67.

In the 3.5-year-old age group (3 years 6 months to 4 years 0
months) in the within-domain task children again did not show a
statistically significant difference in their choices between A and
the alternative at baseline (N ⫽ 16, p ⫽ ns, by binomial test) and
again significantly preferred A in the evidence condition (N ⫽ 16,
by binomial test). Children were more likely to choose A after
seeing the evidence than at baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 7.57.
However,
in the cross-domains task, children preferred the
domain-appropriate cause in the baseline condition (N ⫽ 16, by
binomial test) and continued to prefer the domain-appropriate
cause in the evidence condition (N ⫽ 16, by binomial test).
Children were not significantly more likely to choose A after
seeing the evidence than at baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 31) ⫽ 0, p ⫽ ns.
Both at baseline and after seeing the evidence, children were more
likely to identify A as a cause in the within-domain than cross-
domains task: baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 5.24; evidence, ␹2(1, N ⫽
32) ⫽ 21.21.

Seeing the evidence had no effect for the youngest age group (3
years 0 months to 3 years 6 months). In the within-domain task,
children showed no statistically significant preference between A
and the alternative even in the evidence condition (N ⫽ 16, p ⫽ ns,
by binomial test). Children were not significantly more likely to
choose A after seeing the evidence than at baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽
32) ⫽ 0.51, p ⫽ ns. In the cross-domains task, children preferred
the domain-appropriate cause in the baseline condition (N ⫽ 16, by
binomial test) and were not significantly more likely to choose A
after seeing the evidence than at baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ .82,
p ⫽ ns. Children were more likely to choose A in the within-
domain than cross-domains task: baseline, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 5.24;
evidence, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 32) ⫽ 4.57.

The different results observed across the different age groups
suggest a developmental effect, with age group interacting with the
effect of statistical evidence in the cross-domains task. We tested
for the possibility of such an interaction using a log-linear model,
predicting the frequency with which children chose A over the
alternative as function of age group, condition (baseline or evi-
dence), and an Age Group ⫻ Condition interaction. Removal of
the age group factor from the saturated model did not result in a
statistically significant increase in lack of fit, ␹2(2, N ⫽ 80) ⫽
4.49, p ⫽ ns, whereas removal of condition or the interaction
resulted in a statistically significant increase in lack of fit for both
the saturated model (condition: ␹2[1, N ⫽ 80] ⫽ 8.93; Age
Group ⫻ Condition: ␹2[2, N ⫽ 80] ⫽ 9.48) and the model without

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1129

the effect of age group (condition: ␹2[1, N ⫽ 80] ⫽ 8.93; Age
Group ⫻ Condition: ␹2[2, N ⫽ 80] ⫽ 7.74). These results indicate
that the best model includes condition and the Age Group ⫻
Condition interaction as predictors, supporting the hypothesis that
the 4- and 5-year-olds responded differently to the cross-domain
evidence than did the 3-year-olds.

Discussion

The results of Experiment 1 suggest both that children’s
domain-specific theories interact with their interpretation of evi-
dence and that the nature of this interaction changes over the
course of development. Overall, we found a graded interaction
between prior knowledge and evidence of the kind predicted by
our Bayesian model: All but the youngest children learned that A
was a cause when A was consistent with their theories, and all of
the children were less likely to identify A as a cause when A
violated their theories. (Note that this finding rules out a simple
associative explanation of children’s inferences; the association
between Variable A and the effect was identical within and across
domains.) Critically, the oldest preschoolers seemed to learn from
the evidence even when the evidence conflicted with their prior
beliefs. After seeing the data, 4- and 5-year-olds were able to
entertain a causal possibility (that being scared might cause tummy
aches) that they did not endorse without seeing those data.

By contrast, the younger 3-year-olds (3 years 0 months to 3
years 6 months) had a strong preference for domain-appropriate
causes and apparently failed to learn from the evidence throughout.
It is not clear whether this failure is due to competence or perfor-
mance deficits. Our task was quite complex and younger children
might have been able to learn from the data in a simpler or more
supported task. Alternatively, the youngest children might have
understood the evidence, but the evidence might not have over-
come the children’s initial inductive biases, even within domains.
(That is, the youngest children might have found it relatively more
difficult to believe that one type of plant might make one itch and
others might not.) Further research might disambiguate these ac-
counts.

However, for the 3.5-year-olds (3 years 6 months to 4 years 0
months), the discrepancy between within- and cross-domain rea-
soning was particularly striking. Although the evidence in the tasks
was formally identical, 94% of the children in this group inferred
that A was the cause in the within-domain task (no different than
the 4- and 5-year-olds), whereas only 12% inferred that A was the
cause in the cross-domains task (no different than at baseline).

Why did the 3.5-year-olds respond differently to the cross-
domains evidence than the 4- and 5-year-olds? There are at least
three possible explanations. One possibility is that 3-year-old
children might have difficulty making inferences from ambiguous
statistical data. If (as suggested by the failure of the younger
3-year-olds to use the evidence at all) the ability of the 3.5-year-
olds to interpret data of this complexity is fragile, any increase in
task difficulty (including a conflict with prior knowledge) might
compromise children’s ability to evaluate the evidence. Alterna-
tively, the younger children might have a stronger belief in domain
boundaries than older children. The data might have been insuf-
ficient to overcome 3-year-olds’ initial inductive bias that psycho-
logical causes are unlikely to generate bodily effects. Finally, the
older 3-year-olds and the 4- and 5-year-olds might not differ either

with respect to their ability to evaluate evidence or their initial
domain-specific theories. However, younger children might be less
able than older children to update their beliefs on the basis of
surprising evidence. Again, further research might disambiguate
these accounts.

Overall, the results of Experiment 1 suggest that domain-general
and domain-specific information interact
to affect children’s
causal learning, consistent with the prescriptions of Bayesian in-
ference. Moreover, older preschoolers can use statistical evidence
to make inferences against their domain-specific theories even
when the data are ambiguous. That is, children can infer a domain-
inappropriate causal relationship even when the evidence does not
formally rule out the causal relationship consistent with their initial
theories.

However, Experiment 1 also suggests that children’s learning is
relatively conservative; children were less likely to learn from
statistical evidence that conflicted with their theories than from
evidence consistent with their theories. If children’s learning is
conservative, then the children might not generalize much beyond
the task itself. That is, even those children who endorse psycho-
somatic causes in the cross-domains story might be reluctant to
endorse psychosomatic causality in general. Alternatively,
the
children might be more willing to accept the possibility of other
psychosomatic events. In Experiment 2, we look at how exposure
to the evidence in the cross-domains story affects children’s infer-
ences about other psychosomatic events.

Experiment 2

In earlier research on children’s understanding of the limits of
psychological explanations, Schult and Wellman (1997) showed
preschoolers actions that were physically and biologically possible
(e.g., jumping up and down; drinking orange juice) or impossible
(walking through a wall; staying awake forever). They found that
preschoolers distinguished possible and impossible events in both
domains; that is, children understood that one could do possible
events if one wanted to but one could not do impossible ones. In
Experiment 2, we used a similar method to look at preschoolers’
judgments about the possibility of physical, psychological, and
psychosomatic events. We asked children to make these possibility
judgments either at baseline or after reading the cross-domains
story used in Experiment 1. If the children interpret the storybook
evidence conservatively, then children who hear the cross-domains
story should be no more likely than children at baseline to say that
other types of psychosomatic events are possible. However, if
children generalize broadly, then children who hear the cross-
domains story should be more likely than children at baseline to
endorse psychosomatic causality.

Method

Participants. Thirty children (mean age: 58 months; range:
49 –71 months) were recruited from urban area preschools. Fifty
percent of the participants were girls. Although most children were
from White, middle-class backgrounds, a range of ethnicities re-
sembling the diversity of the population was represented. Children
were randomly assigned to a baseline possibility judgments con-
dition or an evidence and possibility judgments condition.

Materials. Six pictures were used (see Appendix C). The
pictures showed a physically possible event (throwing a ball in a

1130

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

lake and making a splash), a physically impossible event (brushing
a window with a feather and breaking it), a biologically possible
event (skipping rope and getting tired), a biologically impossible
event (stomping on the ground and making a tomato grow), and
two psychosomatic events (worrying and getting a headache; being
nervous and feeling sick). In the evidence and possibility judg-
ments condition, the cross-domains storybook from Experiment 1
was also used.

Procedure. Children were tested individually. In the baseline
possibility judgments condition, children were shown each of the
six pictures in one of two fixed semirandom orders: (Order 1)
physically impossible; psychogenic headache; biologically impos-
sible; biologically possible; physically possible; psychogenic sick-
ness; (Order 2) biologically possible; psychogenic sickness; phys-
ically possible; physically impossible; psychogenic headaches;
biologically possible. The experimenter read the children a brief
passage about the events in the picture (see Appendix C). At the
end of each passage, children were asked yes or no questions about
the possibility of the event. For example, for the physically im-
possible event, children were asked: “Can that happen? Can Tony
break the window with a feather?” The two psychogenic questions
were: “Can that happen? Can Leslie get a headache from worrying
too much?” and “Can that happen? Can Jordan start to feel sick
from being nervous and upset?” The evidence and possibility
judgments condition was identical to the baseline possibility judg-
ments condition except
that children were first tested on the
cross-domains storybook as in the evidence condition of Experi-
ment 1.

Results and Discussion

In the evidence and possibility judgments condition, children’s
responses to the cross-domains storybook replicated the results for
this age group in Experiment 1. Sixty percent of the children chose
“being scared,” not significantly different from the 50% who chose
being scared in the evidence condition of Experiment 1, ␹2(1, N ⫽
31) ⫽ 0.125, p ⫽ ns, and significantly more than the 12% of
children who chose being scared in the baseline condition of
Experiment 1, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 31) ⫽ 7.63.

In the possible/impossible picture task, 1 child in the baseline
possibility judgments condition and 1 child in the evidence and
possibility judgments condition answered yes to all six questions,
and 1 child in the baseline possibility judgments condition an-
swered no to all six questions. To ensure that children could
properly distinguish possible and impossible events, we eliminated
these children from further analysis, leaving 13 children in the
baseline possibility judgments condition and 14 children in the
evidence and possibility judgments condition.

The critical question was whether children would be more likely
to say that psychosomatic events were possible in the evidence and
possibility judgments condition than in the baseline possibility
judgments condition. In fact, there was no difference in children’s
possibility judgments between the conditions, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 27) ⫽
.07, p ⫽ ns (see Table 1). In both conditions, children denied the
possibility of both psychosomatic events significantly more often
than expected by chance (by binomial test), and no other patterns
of responses occurred more often than chance (by binomial test).
Within the evidence and possibility judgments condition, children
who chose being scared in the cross-domains story were no more

Table 1
Children’s Possible/Impossible Judgments in Experiment 2

No. of children who said that the
event could happen (all others said

the event could not happen)

Baseline
possibility
judgments
(n ⫽ 13)

12 (92)
2 (15)
13 (100)
0 (0)
4 (31)
3 (23)

Evidence and

possibility
judgments
(n ⫽ 14)

11 (79)
2 (21)
14 (100)
0 (0)
5 (36)
5 (36)

Condition

Biologically possible
Biologically impossible
Physically possible
Physically impossible
Psychogenic (headaches)
Psychogenic (sickness)

Note. Percentages are in parentheses.

likely than children who chose food to say that the other psycho-
somatic events were possible, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 14) ⫽ 2.14, p ⫽ ns.

There were no significant differences in children’s tendency to
judge the biologically impossible, physically impossible, and psy-
chogenic events as impossible; similarly, children were equally
likely to judge the physically possible and biologically possible
events as possible (by McNemar’s test, p ⫽ ns throughout). In both
conditions, children indicated that biologically and physically pos-
sible events were possible and biologically and physically impos-
sible events were impossible significantly more often than ex-
pected by chance (by binomial test).

The results of Experiment 2 suggest that children interpret the
evidence in the cross-domains story quite conservatively. Observ-
ing the evidence in the cross-domains story did not affect chil-
dren’s willingness to accept other causal relationships (e.g., be-
tween worrying and headaches or between being nervous and
feeling sick). Why is children’s learning so constrained? One
possibility is that children’s causal generalizations are affected by
their understanding of the domains involved. If preschoolers think
that tummy aches, headaches, and feeling sick are distinct forms of
illness, they might not readily generalize causes of tummy aches to
other ailments. (Anecdotally, for instance, the children seemed to
identify feeling sick primarily with vestibular upset and throwing-
up; several children volunteered reminiscences on the topic in that
context but never otherwise). Alternatively, children’s generaliza-
tions might have been affected by the extent to which they treated
being scared, worrying, and being nervous as the same type of
causal event; children might not have appreciated the commonality
among the psychological variables. Indeed, different beliefs about
the commonality among mental states or bodily states may affect
even adults’ generalizations of psychosomatic causality. Adults
may accept, for instance, that worrying can cause tummy aches but
deny that worrying can cause cancer; similarly, they may accept
that anxiety can cause headaches but deny that excitement causes
headaches.

Alternatively, children might have failed to generalize psycho-
somatic causality from the cross-domains story to the possible/
impossible judgment task simply because the evidence for psycho-
somatic causality provided by the cross-domains story was
relatively weak. Other plausible candidate causes (e.g., food) were

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1131

always present and children saw only a total of seven trials. Given
the conflict between the statistical evidence and children’s prior
beliefs, such conservative learning from minimal data is rational;
if children have strong prior beliefs and the evidence against these
beliefs is relatively limited, children’s naive theories should be
robust to the anomalous data. The results of Experiment 2 suggest
that children might engage in just this sort of authentic but con-
servative learning.

Experiment 3

However, given children’s failure to generalize their inferences,
one might be skeptical that children genuinely learn from the
statistical evidence in the first place. Although in both Experiments
1 and 2, children were significantly more likely to identify being
scared as a cause in the cross-domains task after seeing the
evidence than at baseline, children did not choose being scared
significantly more often than chance in either experiment (50% of
children chose being scared in Experiment 1; 60% chose being
scared in Experiment 2). Because children had a forced choice of
two variables, it is not clear whether the children genuinely learned
to infer psychosomatic causes from the evidence or whether the
surprising evidence confused the 4- and 5-year-olds and led them
to choose at chance.

In Experiment 3, we introduced two measures to distinguish
authentic learning from chance performance. First, we modified
the cross-domains story so that three candidate causes (one domain
inappropriate, two domain appropriate), rather than two, covary
with the effect every day. If the children are confused by the
evidence and choosing at chance, they should choose being scared
33% of the time. However, if children genuinely learn from the
data, we would expect to replicate the results of Experiments 1 and
2: Children should choose being scared more often than chance
and more often than either of the other variables.

Second, we asked children to extend their inferences from the
forced-choice task to a free-explanation task. If children genuinely
learn the target psychosomatic causal relation (between being
scared and tummy aches),
they should be able to apply this
knowledge to explain a new instance of the same target relation,
even if they are unwilling to endorse psychosomatic causes in
general. To assess children’s ability to engage in this near transfer
of their learning, we read children a passage about a puppy that is
worried about the first day of school and has a stomachache. We
chose to use the free-explanation task because we believed that
following up the storybook task with a possible/impossible judg-
ment question about the same target relation (“Can that happen?
Can worrying cause tummy aches?”) might lead the children to
believe that we were questioning their original responses. Because
preschoolers are vulnerable to changing their answers on repeated
questioning, we believed the free-explanation task would be a
more sensitive measure of children’s understanding.

Children were given the explanation task both at baseline (the
baseline explanation condition) and after having read the revised
cross-domains story (the evidence and explanation condition). If
the cross-domains story does not affect children’s learning, then
there should be no difference between the two conditions. How-
ever, if children do learn from the evidence in the cross-domains
story, they should be more likely to attribute the puppy’s stom-

achache to worrying in the evidence and explanation condition
than in the baseline explanation condition.

Method

Participants. Forty children (mean age: 58 months; range:
49 –71 months) were recruited from urban area preschools. Fifty
percent of the participants were girls. Although most children were
from White, middle-class backgrounds, a range of ethnicities re-
sembling the diversity of the population was represented. Children
were randomly assigned to a baseline explanation or an evidence
and explanation condition.

Materials. The cross-domains storybook of Experiment 1 was
modified so that every morning of the week, three events (two
domain appropriate and one domain inappropriate) and the effect
occurred. The domain-inappropriate event (being scared) was re-
peated each day; the other two events always varied. Thus, a
sample test page read, “Bunny thinks about show-and-tell. Bunny
feels scared. Bunny eats a sandwich. Bunny drinks apple juice.
Bunny has a tummy ache.” Two different versions of each book
were created so that for half the children being scared was the last
of the three events and for half the children being scared was the
first of the three events. Additionally, a novel puppy storybook
was used. The text preceding the test question read in its entirety:
“This is Puppy. Puppy is worried because next week he starts
school. The first day of school makes Puppy worried. Puppy’s
stomach hurts.”

Procedure. Children were tested individually. In the baseline
explanation condition, children were read only the puppy book.
The test question was open ended: “Why do you think Puppy’s
stomach hurts?” Children were asked to offer an explanation, and
no prompts were given. The evidence and explanation condition
was identical except that children were first tested on the revised
cross-domains book as in Experiments 1 and 2.

Results and Discussion

Children’s responses to the cross-domains story in this experi-
ment replicated the results in Experiments 1 and 2. Fifty-five
percent of the children in the evidence and explanation condition
chose being scared compared with the 50% of children who chose
being scared in the evidence condition of Experiment 1 and the
60% of children who chose being scared on the storybook task in
the evidence and possibility judgments condition of Experiment 2.
Although in this experiment children were faced with a choice of
three variables rather than two, there were no significant differ-
ences between children’s tendency to choose being scared in this
experiment and the evidence conditions of Experiments 1, ␹2(1,
N ⫽ 36) ⫽ 0.09, p ⫽ ns, and 2, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 36) ⫽ 0.31, p ⫽ ns.
Children were significantly more likely to choose being scared in
this experiment than in the baseline condition of Experiment 1,
␹2(1, N ⫽ 36) ⫽ 6.96. Within this experiment, children chose
being scared significantly above chance (N ⫽ 20, by binomial test)
and did not choose either of the other two variables above chance
(N ⫽ 20, p ⫽ ns, by binomial test). There was a trend for children
to choose being scared over any other variable, ␹2(1, N ⫽ 20) ⫽
4.0, p ⫽ .08.

On the free-explanation task, we coded children’s explanations
for reference to physical/bodily variables (e.g., sickness, hunger, or

1132

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

injury) and psychological variables (e.g., worrying about the first
day of school). Explanations fell uniquely and unambiguously into
a bodily, psychological, or “I don’t know” category. In the baseline
explanation condition, 55% of the children gave only bodily/
physical explanations, 30% of the children gave only psycholog-
ical explanations, and 15% of the children said, “I don’t know.” By
contrast, in the evidence and explanation condition, 20% of the
children referred only to bodily/physical causes, 70% of the chil-
dren referred only to psychological causes, and 10% said “I don’t
know.” The bodily/physical explanations all referred to food or
hunger, with the exception of a single child in the baseline expla-
nation condition who said “itchy stomach.” The psychological
explanations all referred to being the first day of school and/or
being worried, sad, scared, or nervous. Children were significantly
more likely to reference psychological causes in the evidence and
explanation condition than in the baseline explanation condition,
␹2(1, N ⫽ 40) ⫽ 6.67.

We also analyzed the data to see whether the children who chose
being scared in the cross-domains story were more likely to offer
psychological explanations on the puppy book than those who did
not. Of the 11 children who chose being scared in the cross-
domains story, 8 (73%) offered psychological explanations in the
transfer task; of the 9 children who did not choose being scared in
the cross-domains story, 6 (67%) offered psychological explana-
tions in the transfer task. There was no significant difference
between these groups (Fisher’s Exact Test, p ⫽ns).4 This suggests
that even those children who did not identify being scared as the
causal variable in the cross-domains story may have learned
enough from the evidence to treat worrying a relevant causal
variable in the free-explanation task.

The results of Experiment 3 suggest that children are not merely
confused by statistical evidence that violates their prior beliefs;
rather, children draw accurate inferences from such evidence.
Preschoolers were able to use the statistical evidence to identify a
psychological variable as a likely candidate cause of a bodily
effect in both a forced-choice and free-explanation task. These
experiments suggest that 4- and 5-year-olds can genuinely learn
novel causal relations from limited amounts of data, even when the
evidence conflicts with the children’s prior beliefs.

Why were children able to transfer their inferences about psy-
chosomatic causes from the cross-domains story to the free-
explanation task in this experiment but not from the cross-domains
story to the possible/impossible judgment tasks in Experiment 2?
We believe the difference between the experiments can be ex-
plained in a number of ways. First, the change in stimuli across the
tasks might have impaired children’s transfer of information in
Experiment 2; that is, children might have found it more difficult
to transfer their inferences from the storybook to the picture tasks
than from one storybook to another storybook. Second, the possi-
ble/impossible judgment task might have been more difficult than
the free explanation task. If so, the greater difficulty of the task
might have made the transfer of knowledge less likely. Finally, as
hypothesized, children might have been less willing to generalize
their knowledge about one psychosomatic causal relation to psy-
chosomatic causes in general than to extend their inferences about
a single psychosomatic causal relation. As noted, given the mini-
mal evidence for psychosomatic causality provided by the cross-
domains story, it is rational that children might have interpreted the

data conservatively and transferred their inferences more readily in
Experiment 3 than in Experiment 2.

General Discussion

Collectively, these three experiments suggest that children learn
about causal relationships by taking into account both statistical
evidence and constraints from their naive theories, consistent with
the predictions of Bayesian inference models. Given identical
evidence, preschoolers were more likely to identify a variable as a
cause when the variable was consistent with their theories than
when it violated their theories. Older preschoolers were able to use
ambiguous, domain-violating evidence to make inferences about
psychosomatic causality that they did not make at baseline. More-
over, children were able to learn from the cross-domain evidence
even though their initial domain-specific theories were not ruled
out but merely rendered less probable by the data. Finally, chil-
dren’s learning was sufficiently robust that children who observed
evidence for psychosomatic causality were more likely than chil-
dren at baseline to offer psychosomatic explanations in a novel
task.

The role of Bayesian inference in our analysis of children’s
ability to combine statistical evidence and constraints from naive
theories was intended to be similar to that of ideal observer
analysis in vision (e.g., Yuille & Kersten, 2006) and rational
analysis in the study of adult cognition (e.g., Anderson, 1990;
Marr, 1982; Shepard, 1987). Bayesian inference provides a ratio-
nal solution to the problem of updating one’s beliefs in the light of
new evidence and can thus guide researchers in exploring how
well children solve this problem. In particular, a Bayesian model
can allow researchers to make both qualitative predictions about
how evidence and theories interact and quantitative predictions
about the conclusions that are warranted from a particular combi-
nation of observed data and constraints derived from a theory. The
Bayesian model presented in Appendix A provides one such set of
predictions, showing that the judgments of the 4- and 5-year-olds
in our experiments are close to the probabilities entertained by an
ideal Bayesian learner using a particular causal theory.

We do not claim that Bayesian inference is the only way to
define a model that could reproduce our results. Although the
effect of domain on children’s judgments is inconsistent with
accounts of causal learning based purely on the strength of asso-
ciation or patterns of covariation between events (Cheng, 1997,
2000; Shanks, 1985; Shanks & Dickinson, 1987; Spellman, 1996),
such accounts could predict the data reported here if augmented
with initial assumptions about the strength of causal relationships
within and across domains. Our intent was not to explore the
mechanism by which children make these judgments but rather
whether children solve the abstract computational problem of
combining theory and evidence in a way that is consistent with the
prescriptions of Bayesian inference. In our studies, an appropri-
ately augmented associative mechanism remains a possible expla-
nation for how children could approximate the rational Bayesian
solution to this problem, as it would essentially build in the two
critical components of Bayesian inference: initial beliefs regarding

4 A Fisher’s Exact Test was used in this case because the expected

counts in the cells of the contingency table were less than four.

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1133

possible causal relationships and revision of these beliefs in light
of evidence. Further experiments would be necessary to explore
the adequacy of such an account, although we note that the results
of several previous studies of causal reasoning in children would
seem to provide evidence against simple associative models as a
general explanation for performance on this kind of task (e.g.,
Sobel et al., 2004; Tenenbaum et al., 2007).

The results of our experiments also raise several other questions.
As noted, it is not clear whether the developmental differences
among 3-year-olds, 3.5-year-olds, and 4- and 5-year-olds are due
to changes in children’s ability to evaluate evidence, changes in
children’s initial inductive biases, or both. The relative influence
of domain-specific and domain-general information might change
dramatically over the course of development, depending on age-
related commonalities and differences in children’s commitment to
domain-specific theories, sensitivity to evidence, and ability to
integrate the two. Further research might disambiguate the role of
each of these factors.

Of note, however, the finding that 3.5-year-olds did not use the
theory-violating evidence to change their judgments is consistent
with a wide variety of research suggesting that 3-year-olds have
particular difficulty changing their minds in the face of evidence.
On paradigms as diverse as theory of mind tasks, ambiguous figure
tasks, and dimensional change card sort tasks, 3-year-olds’ initial
inferences seem to be remarkably impervious to feedback (Gopnik
& Rosati, 2001; Kirkham, Cruess, & Diamond, 2003; Munakata &
Yerys, 2001; Russell, Jarrold & Potel, 1994; Zelazo, Frye, &
Rapus, 1996). Researchers have suggested process-level theories,
such as the theory of attentional inertia (e.g., Diamond & Kirkham,
2005; Kirkham et al., 2003), to account for many of these phe-
nomena. In future work, it would be interesting to investigate the
relationship between such process-level theories and computa-
tional level accounts of the biasing effects of prior knowledge, like
the Bayesian model proposed here.

Additionally, the studies here do not tell us precisely what
children learned. We have suggested that children can use domain-
general evidence to learn at least one particular psychosomatic
relationship: that being scared causes tummy aches. We also know
that children did not learn to accept that psychosomatic causes
were possible in general. However, children’s learning might have
been either more narrow or more broad than this summary sug-
gests. Children might have learned that being scared can cause
tummy aches only in the context of storybooks— or they might
have begun, but not completed, a process of fundamentally altering
their understanding of domain boundaries. Additional research
might establish the extent
to which patterns of evidence can
influence children’s naive theories.

Further research might also establish the extent to which chil-
dren’s learning is affected by varying the amount and type of
evidence children observe. In our studies, children saw candidate
causes covary deterministically with an effect seven times. Differ-
ences in the quantity, quality, and presentation of the data (more
trials, negative evidence, evidence from interventions, probabilis-
tic evidence, etc.) might influence both children’s willingness to
override domain-specific beliefs and their willingness to general-
ize from the data to novel events.

Note also that in this study children saw a single consistent
pattern of evidence: Candidate causes were paired together, and
one variable was always held constant while the other variable

always changed. In the real world, data are unlikely to be packaged
in such a consistent manner. Causes often act stochastically, mul-
tiple variables can change simultaneously, and unobserved causes
may be present. In such contexts, it may be far more difficult both
to detect and to draw inferences from recurring variables. Further-
more, children might be better able to track evidence in the
pedagogical context of a story than in the world at large; con-
versely, the inferences children make about events in a story might
be particularly unlikely to generalize beyond the story itself. Fur-
ther research might investigate children’s ability to draw infer-
ences from ambiguous evidence in a broader range of contexts and
in cases where the presentation of the data is less tightly controlled.
Finally, in our studies, children observed the evidence in the
absence of any explanation of how psychological events might
cause bodily events. Many researchers have proposed that an
understanding of causal mechanisms is fundamental to an under-
standing of causal relationships (Ahn, Kalish, Medin, & Gelman,
1995; Bullock, Gelman, & Baillargeon, 1982; Koslowski, 1996;
Shultz, 1982) and it would be interesting to know how offering
children explicit information about causal mechanisms might af-
fect their learning. It seems probable that children might be more
willing to learn from a combination of evidence and information
about plausible processes of causal transmission than from evi-
dence in isolation. Conversely, researchers have suggested that
evidence about the covariation of interventions and outcomes can
support inferences about causal mechanisms (Schulz, Kushnir, &
Gopnik, 2007; Schulz & Sommerville, 2006). It would be inter-
esting to know whether evidence for novel observed causal rela-
tions might prompt children to posit novel mechanistic explana-
tions.

More generally, it seems probable that children begin to learn
about psychosomatic causality, not merely because they observe or
are told about covariations between psychological and bodily
events but because adults explicitly assert the existence (or non-
existence) of such causal relationships. We do not know how
merely telling children about a causal relationship affects chil-
dren’s interpretation of evidence. Nor do we know how different
cultural beliefs about psychosomatic causality might influence
children’s learning. Further research might investigate the interac-
tion between information conveyed through cultural transmission
and children’s learning from evidence.

What these studies do suggest is that Bayesian inference cap-
tures a hallmark of causal learning in early childhood: conserva-
tism with respect to prior knowledge but flexibility in the face of
new evidence. Although learners might lack a metacognitive un-
derstanding of the relationship between theories and evidence,
rational computations integrating new data and prior knowledge
could form part of an implicit human learning mechanism, allow-
ing the process of theory formation to be both adaptive and stable.
The results of these studies suggest that even very young children
can integrate prior knowledge and evidence to make normative
causal inferences, giving children a powerful mechanism for de-
veloping and revising their naive theories about the world.

References

Ahn, W. K., Kalish, C. W., Medin, D. L., & Gelman, S. A. (1995). The role
of covariation versus mechanism information in causal attribution. Cog-
nition, 54, 299 –352.

1134

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

Anderson, J. R. (1990). The adaptive character of thought. Hillsdale, NJ:

Kalish, C. (1996). Causes and symptoms in preschoolers’ conceptions of

Erlbaum.

Barrett, S. E., Abdi, H., Murphy, G. L., & Gallagher, J. M. (1993).
Theory-based correlations and their role in children’s concepts. Child
Development, 64, 1595–1616.

Bartsch, K., & Wellman, H. (1989). Young children’s attribution of action

to beliefs and desires. Child Development, 60, 946 –964.

Bloom, P. (2004). Descartes’ baby. New York: Basic Books.
Bullock, M., Gelman, R., & Baillargeon, R. (1982). The development of
causal reasoning. In W. J. Friedman (Ed.), The developmental psychol-
ogy of time (pp. 209 –254). New York: Academic Press.

Carey, S. (1985). Conceptual change in childhood. Cambridge, MA: MIT

Press/Bradford Books.

Carey, S., & Spelke, E. S. (1994). Domain-specific knowledge and con-
ceptual change. In L. A. Hirschfeld & S. A. Gelman (Eds.), Mapping the
mind: Domain specificity in cognition and culture (pp. 169 –200). New
York: Cambridge University Press.

Chen, Z., & Klahr, D. (1999). All other things being equal: Acquisition and
transfer of the control of variables strategy. Child Development, 70,
1098 –1120.

Cheng, P. W. (1997). From covariation to causation: A causal power

theory. Psychological Review, 104, 367– 405.

Cheng, P. W. (2000). Causality in the mind: Estimating contextual and
conjunctive power. In F. C. Keil & R. A. Wilson (Eds.), Explanation and
cognition (pp. 227–253). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Diamond, A., & Kirkham, N. (2005). Not quite as grown-up as we like to

think. Psychological Science, 16, 291–297.

Estes, D., Wellman, H. M., & Woolley, J. (1989). Children’s understanding
of mental phenomena. In H. Reese (Ed.), Advances in child development
and behavior (pp. 41– 86). New York: Academic Press.

Flavell, J. H., Green, F. L., & Flavell, E. R. (1995). Young children’s
knowledge about thinking. Monographs of the Society for Research in
Child Development, 60(1, Serial No. 24).

Gelman, S. A., & Wellman, H. M. (1991). Insides and essence: Early

understandings of the non-obvious. Cognition, 38, 213–244.

Gopnik, A. (1988). Conceptual and semantic development as theory

change. Mind and Language, 3, 197–217.

Gopnik, A., Glymour, C., Sobel, D., Schulz, L., Kushnir, T., & Danks, D.
(2004). A theory of causal learning in children: Causal maps and Bayes
nets. Psychological Review, 111, 1–31.

Gopnik, A., & Meltzoff, A. N. (1997). Words, thoughts and theories.

Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Gopnik, A., & Rosati, A. (2001). Duck or rabbit? Reversing ambiguous
figures and understanding ambiguous representations. Developmental
Science, 4, 175–183.

Gopnik, A., Sobel, D. M., Schulz, L. E., & Glymour, C. (2001). Causal
learning mechanisms in very young children: Two-, three-, and four-
year-olds infer causal relations from patterns of variation and covaria-
tion. Developmental Psychology, 37, 620 – 629.

Griffiths, T. L. (2005). Causes, coincidences, and theories. Unpublished

illness. Child Development, 67, 1647–1670.

Keil, F. C. (1989). Concepts, kinds, and cognitive development. Cam-

bridge, MA: MIT Press.

Keil, F. C. (1995). The growth of causal understandings of natural kinds.
In D. P. D. Sperber (Ed.), Causal cognition: A multidisciplinary debate.
New York: Clarendon Press/Oxford University Press.

Kirkham, N., Cruess, L., & Diamond, A. (2003). Helping children apply
their knowledge to their behavior on a dimension-switching task. De-
velopmental Science, 6, 449 – 476.

Klahr, D., & Dunbar, K. (1988). Dual space search during scientific

reasoning. Cognitive Science, 12, 1– 48.

Klahr, D., & Dunbar, K. (1989). Developmental differences in scientific
discovery processes. In D. Klahr & K. Kotovsky (Eds.), Complex infor-
mation processing: The impact of Herbert A. Simon (pp. 109 –143).
Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.

Koslowski, B. (1996). Theory and evidence: The development of scientific

reasoning. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Koslowski, B., Okagaki, L., Lorenz, C., & Umbach, D. (1989). When
covariation isn’t enough: The role of causal mechanism, sampling
method and sample size in causal reasoning. Child Development, 60,
1316 –1327.

Kuhn, D. (1989). Children and adults as intuitive scientists. Psychological

Review, 96, 674 – 689.

Kuhn, D., Amsel, E., & O’Laughlin, M. (1988). The development of

scientific thinking skills. Orlando, FL: Academic Press.

Kushnir, T., & Gopnik, A. (2007). Conditional probability versus spatial
contiguity in causal learning: Preschoolers use new contingency evi-
dence to overcome prior spatial assumptions. Developmental Psychol-
ogy, 43, 186 –196.

Leslie, A. M. (1994). ToMM, ToBy, and Agency: Core architecture and
domain specificity. In L. A. Hirschfeld & S. A. Gelman (Eds.), Mapping
the mind: Domain specificity in cognition and culture (pp. 119 –148).
New York: Cambridge University Press.

Marr, D. (1982). Vision. San Francisco: Freeman.
Masnick, A. M., & Klahr, D. (2003). Error matters: An initial exploration
of elementary school children’s understanding of experimental error.
Journal of Cognition and Development, 4, 67–98.

Meltzoff, A. N. (1995). Understanding the intentions of others: Re-
enactment of intended acts by 18-month-old children. Developmental
Psychology, 31, 838 – 850.

Munakata, Y., & Yerys, B. E. (2001). All together now: When dissocia-
tions between knowledge and action disappear. Psychological Science,
12, 335–337.

Notaro, P. C., Gelman, S. A., & Zimmerman, M. A. (2001). Biases in
reasoning about
the consequences of psychogenic bodily reactions:
Domain boundaries in cognitive development. Merrill-Palmer Quar-
terly, 48, 427– 449.

Pazzani, M. J. (1991). A computational theory of learning causal relation-

ships. Cognitive Science, 15, 401– 424.

doctoral dissertation, Stanford University.

Pearl, J. (2000). Causality: Models, reasoning and inference. Cambridge,

Harris, P. L., German, T., & Mills, P. (1996). Children’s use of counter-

England: Cambridge University Press.

factual thinking in causal reasoning. Cognition, 61, 233–259.

Hatano, G., & Inagaki, K. (1994). Young children’s naive theory of

biology. Cognition, 50, 171–188.

Hickling, A. K., & Wellman, H. M. (2001). The emergence of children’s
causal explanations and theories: Evidence from everyday conversation.
Developmental Psychology, 37, 668 – 683.

Inagaki, K., & Hatano, G. (1993). Young children’s understanding of the

mind– body distinction. Child Development, 64, 1534 –1549.

Inhelder, B., & Piaget, J. (1958). The growth of logical thinking from
childhood to adolescence (A. P. S. Milgram, Trans.). New York: Basic
Books.

Penner, D. E., & Klahr, D. (1996). The interaction of domain-specific
knowledge and domain-general discovery strategies: A study with sink-
ing objects. Child Development, 67, 2709 –2727.

Perner, J. (1991). Understanding the representational mind. Cambridge,

MA: MIT Press.

Russell, J., Jarrold, C., & Potel, D. (1994). What makes strategic deception
difficult—the deception or the strategy? British Journal of Developmen-
tal Psychology, 12, 301–314.

Schauble, L. (1990). Belief revision in children: The role of prior knowl-
edge and strategies for generating evidence. Journal of Experimental
Child Psychology, 49, 31–57.

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1135

Scholl, B. J., & Leslie, A. M. (1999). Modularity, development and

Spelke, E. S., Breinlinger, K., Macomber, J., & Jacobson, K. (1992).

“‘theory of mind’.” Mind & Language, 14, 131–153.

Schult, C. A., & Wellman, H. M. (1997). Explaining human movements
and actions: Children’s understanding of the limits of psychological
explanation. Cognition, 62, 291–324.

Schulz, L. E., & Gopnik, A. (2004). Causal learning across domains.

Developmental Psychology, 40, 162–176.

Schulz, L. E., Kushnir, T., & Gopnik, A. (2007). Learning from doing:
Interventions and causal inference. In A. Gopnik & L. E. Schulz (Eds.),
Causal learning: Psychology, philosophy and computation (pp. 67– 85).
New York: Oxford University Press.

Schulz, L. E., & Sommerville, J. (2006). God does not play dice: Causal
determinism and preschoolers’ causal inferences. Child Development,
77, 427– 442.

Shanks, D. R. (1985). Forward and backward blocking in human contin-
gency judgment. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology: Com-
parative and Physiological Psychology, 37(B), 1–21.

Shanks, D. R., & Dickinson, A. (1987). Associative accounts of causality
judgment. In G. H. Bower (Ed.), The psychology of
learning and
motivation: Advances in research and theory (Vol. 21, pp. 229 –261).
San Diego, CA: Academic Press.

Shepard, R. N. (1987, September). Toward a universal law of generaliza-

tion for psychological science. Science, 237, 1317–1323.

Shultz, T. R. (1982). Rules of causal attribution. Monographs of the Society

for Research in Child Development, 47(1, Serial No. 194).

Shultz, T. R., & Mendelson, R. (1975). The use of covariation as a

principle of causal analysis. Child Development, 46, 394 –399.

Siegler, R. S., & Liebert, R. M. (1975). Acquisition of formal scientific
reasoning by 10- and 13-year-olds: Designing a factorial experiment.
Developmental Psychology, 10, 401– 402.

Sobel, D. M. (2004). Exploring the coherence of young children’s explan-
atory abilities: Evidence from generating counterfactuals. British Jour-
nal of Developmental Psychology, 22, 37–58.

Sobel, D. M., Tenenbaum, J. B., & Gopnik, A. (2004). Children’s causal
inferences from indirect evidence: Backwards blocking and Bayesian
reasoning in preschoolers. Cognitive Science, 28, 303–333.

Origins of knowledge. Psychological Review, 99, 605– 632.

Spellman, B. A. (1996). Acting as intuitive scientists: Contingency judg-
ments are made while controlling for alternative potential causes. Psy-
chological Science, 7, 337–342.

Spirtes, P., Glymour, C., & Scheines, R. (1993). Causation, prediction and

search. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Tenenbaum, J. B., Griffiths, T. L., & Niyogi, S. (2007). Intuitive theories
as grammars for causal inference. In A. Gopnik & L. Schulz (Eds.),
Causal learning: Psychology, philosophy, and computation (pp. 301–
322). New York: Oxford University Press.

Tenenbaum, J. B., & Niyogi, S. (2003). Learning causal laws. In R.
Alterman & D. Kirsch (Eds.), Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth An-
the Cognitive Science Society. Hillside, NJ:
nual Conference of
Erlbaum.

Tenenbaum, J. B., Sobel, D. M., Griffiths, T. L., & Gopnik, A. (2007).
Bayesian inference in causal learning from ambiguous data: Evidence
from adults and children. Manuscript submitted for publication.

Watson, J. S., & Ramey, C. T. (1972). Reactions to response-contingent

stimulation in early infancy. Merrill-Palmer Quarterly, 18, 219 –227.

Wellman, H. M. (1990). The child’s theory of mind. Cambridge, MA: MIT

Press.

Wellman, H. M., & Estes, D. (1986). Early understanding of mental
entities: A reexamination of childhood realism. Child Development, 57,
910 –923.

Wellman, H. M., Hickling, A. K., & Schult, C. A. (1997). Young children’s
psychological, physical, and biological explanations. In H. M. Wellman
& K. Inagaki (Eds.), The emergence of core domains of
thought:
Children’s reasoning about physical, psychological, and biological phe-
nomena (pp. 7–25). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer.

Yuille, A., & Kersten, D. (2006). Vision as Bayesian inference: Analysis

by synthesis? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 10, 301–308.

Zelazo, P. D., Frye, X., & Rapus, T. (1996). An age-related dissociation
between knowing rules and using them. Cognitive Development, 11,
37– 63.

(Appendixes follow)

1136

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

Appendix A

Bayesian Model

Bayesian inference provides a rational account of how children
should go about combining theory and evidence. It can also be
used to make precise quantitative predictions as to whether con-
clusions are justified by the observation of data, given a set of
assumptions about the constraints provided by naive theories. In
Experiment 1, children are asked, “Why does [character] have
[symptom]? Is it because of [A] or because of [B]?” We model the
probability that children choose explanation A as

P共Explanation A兩D兲

P共Explanation A兩D兲 ⫹ P共Explanation B兩D兲

(2)

This directly contrasts the two possible explanations given the data
observed (a similar expression applies in Experiment 2, contrasting
the three possible explanations). The probability of each candidate
explanation being selected given the data is computed by summing
over all possible causal models that are consistent with the expla-
nation. This is formalized as,

P共Explanation A兩D兲 ⫽ 冘

h!H

P共Explanation A兩h兲P共h兩D兲

(3)

where h is a hypothesis as to the underlying causal structure, and
H is the space of all hypotheses.

We represent hypotheses using causal graphical models (Pearl,
2000; Spirtes, Glymour, & Scheines, 1993), where nodes corre-
spond to variables, arrows from cause to effect represent relation-
ships between variables, and a set of conditional probability dis-
tributions captures the probability that each variable takes on a
particular value given the values of its causes. We assume that the
probability of a cause being selected as an explanation given a
particular causal structure h is 1/k, where k is the size of the set of
candidate causes that are present and possess a causal relationship
with the effect in h, and where the proposed explanation is a
member of this set. The probability of a particular causal structure
given the data is obtained via Bayes’s rule (Equation 1), using a
prior P(h) and likelihood P(D|h) derived from a causal theory.

As proposed by Tenenbaum and Niyogi (2003), Griffiths
(2005), and Tenenbaum et al. (2007), we model the framework
theory that guides children’s inferences as a simple scheme for
generating causal graphical models. In this scheme, we allow
for different domains. Causal variables have relationships with
effect variables; causes are likely to have relationships to ef-
fects within their domain, however, there is also a small prob-
ability that a cause from one domain can lead to an effect in
another domain.

The prior probability associated with each model is simply its
probability of being generated by the theory. The process of
generating a causal graphical model from this theory breaks down
into three steps. First, we identify the nodes (causes and effects) in

the model. In our case, the nodes simply correspond to the set of
causes and effects that appear in the story. Second, we generate the
causal relationships between these nodes. If cause and effects are
within domain, then the probability a relationship exists is rela-
tively high and given by p. If the link between two variables
crosses domains, then a relationship is unlikely and is given a
lower probability, q. With n causes, there are 2n possible causal
models. Assuming that each relationship is generated indepen-
dently, we can evaluate the prior probability of each of these
models by multiplying the probabilities of the existence or non-
existence of the causal relationships involved. The particular val-
ues of the probabilities p and q depend on the child’s theory. Such
theories might change with age and experience; that is, younger
children might think cross-domain events are more or less proba-
ble than older children. We assume that children think the proba-
bility of cross-domain events is low (but not extremely low) by
setting q ⫽ .1, and by setting a higher within-domain probability
p ⫽ .4.

Finally, we specify the conditional probability of the effect
given the causes present in the causal model. This allows us to
evaluate the probability of a specific model, h, generating the data
observed on the mth day, P(dm|h). These data consist of the values
taken on by all variables on that day—the presence or absence of
the causes and effects. We assume that the probability of each
cause being present or absent is constant across all of the causal
models and the only difference is in the probability they assign to
the occurrence of the effect on that day. We then take the condi-
tional probability of the effect given the set of causes to be 1 if any
cause that influences the effect is present, and ! otherwise, corre-
sponding to a noisy-OR parameterization (Pearl, 2000), where
each cause has a strength of 1 and the background has a strength
of !. We assumed that the probability of an effect in the absence
of any causes was low, with ! ⫽ .001. The probability of the full
set of data, D, accumulated over the course of the story is given by

P共D兩h兲 ⫽ 兿mP共dm兩h兲

(4)

where the data observed on each day are assumed to be generated
independently.

As can be seen comparing the results predicted by the Bayesian
model in Figure A1 with the 4-year-olds’ responses in Experi-
ments 1 and 2, our model accurately predicted the responses of the
oldest children, with a Pearson product–moment correlation coef-
ficient of r(9) ⫽ .85. The model gives correct relative weights to
the variables at baseline in both the within-domain and cross-
domains conditions. Critically, the model predicted the increased
A responses after evidence in all conditions, while still capturing
the more subtle graded interaction between theory and evidence.

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1137

Figure A1. Predictions of the Bayesian inference model compared with 4- and 5-year-olds’ responses to the
storybook task in Experiments 1, 2, and 3, when q (cross-domain probability) ⫽ .1 and p (within-domain
probability) ⫽ .4. The vertical axis shows the number of children selecting the different responses.

Appendix B

Text of Storybooks Used in Experiment 1

Text of Within-Domain Storybook Used in Experiment 1
Title: Bambi’s Adventures

This is Bambi. Bambi likes to prance and run in lots of different
places. Running is fun for Bambi. On Monday morning, Bambi
runs in the pine grove. Bambi gets excited. Bambi runs in the
cattails. Bambi has itchy spots on his legs. On Monday afternoon,
Bambi runs in the cedar trees and Bambi plays on the rope swing.
Bambi feels great! Bambi doesn’t have any itchy spots. On Tues-
day morning, Bambi gets excited. Bambi runs in the cattails.
Bambi runs in the grass. Bambi has itchy spots on his legs. On
Tuesday afternoon, Bambi reads a book and Bambi runs through
the rock bed. Bambi feels great! Bambi doesn’t have any itchy
spots. On Wednesday morning, Bambi runs in the marsh. Bambi
gets excited. Bambi runs in the cattails. Bambi has itchy spots on
his legs. On Wednesday afternoon, Bambi runs through the apple
orchard and Bambi plays with his toy truck. Bambi feels great!

Bambi doesn’t have any itchy spots. On Thursday morning, Bambi
gets excited. Bambi runs in the cattails. Bambi runs in the leaves.
Bambi has itchy spots on his legs. On Thursday afternoon, Bambi
plays jump rope and Bambi runs in the sand. Bambi feels great!
Bambi doesn’t have any itchy spots. On Friday morning, Bambi
runs in the bushes. Bambi gets excited. Bambi runs in the cattails.
Bambi has itchy spots on his legs. On Friday afternoon, Bambi
runs through the playground and Bambi roller skates. Bambi feels
great! Bambi doesn’t have any itchy spots. On Saturday morning,
Bambi gets excited. Bambi runs in the cattails. Bambi runs in the
grass. Bambi has itchy spots on his legs. On Saturday afternoon,
Bambi gets his hair brushed and Bambi runs through the blueberry
patch. Bambi feels great! Bambi doesn’t have any itchy spots. On
Sunday morning, Bambi runs through the garden. Bambi gets
excited. Bambi runs in the cattails. Bambi has itchy spots on his
legs. The next day Bambi’s spots were all gone. Have fun Bambi!
The End.

(Appendixes continue)

1138

SCHULZ, BONAWITZ, AND GRIFFITHS

Text of Cross-Domains Storybook Used in Experiment 1

Title: Bunny’s Big Week

This is Bunny. Bunny is scared because next week she has to
give show-and-tell. Show-and-tell makes Bunny scared. On Mon-
day morning, Bunny thinks about show-and-tell. Bunny feels
scared. Bunny eats some cheese. Bunny has a tummy ache. On
Monday afternoon, Bunny ties her shoes and Bunny eats straw-
berries. Bunny feels great! Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache. On
Tuesday morning, Bunny eats a popsicle. Bunny thinks about
show-and-tell. Bunny feels scared. Bunny has a tummy ache. On
Tuesday afternoon, Bunny eats some toast and Bunny takes a bath.
Bunny feels great! Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache. On
Wednesday morning, Bunny thinks about show-and-tell. Bunny
feels scared. Bunny eats French fries. Bunny has a tummy ache.
On Wednesday afternoon, Bunny plays bingo and Bunny eats
pasta. Bunny feels great! Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache. On

Thursday morning, Bunny eats a muffin. Bunny thinks about
show-and-tell. Bunny feels scared. Bunny has a tummy ache. On
Thursday afternoon, Bunny eats some yogurt and Bunny brushes
her teeth. Bunny feels great! Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache.
On Friday morning, Bunny thinks about show-and-tell. Bunny
feels scared. Bunny eats some soup. Bunny has a tummy ache. On
Friday afternoon, Bunny plays on the monkey bars and Bunny eats
a banana. Bunny feels great! Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache.
On Saturday morning, Bunny eats a carrot. Bunny thinks about
show-and-tell. Bunny feels scared. Bunny has a tummy ache. On
Saturday afternoon, Bunny eats some tofu and Bunny builds a
snowman. Bunny feels great! Bunny doesn’t have a tummy ache.
On Sunday morning, Bunny thinks about show-and-tell. Bunny
feels scared. Bunny has a tummy ache. The next day Bunny gave
show-and-tell. She did very well and everyone clapped! Hurray for
Bunny! The End.

Appendix C

Text and Pictures Used in the Far Transfer Study of Experiment 2

Physically possible: This is Alex. Alex is at the playground. Alex is throwing a ball. Alex is throwing the ball near a lake. Alex’s friend
tells Alex that if he throws the ball into the water it will make a big splash. Can that happen? Can Alex make a splash by throwing the
ball into the water?

Physically impossible: This is Tony. Tony is at the park. Tony picks up a feather. Tony brushes the feather against a car window. Tony’s
friend tells Tony that if he keeps brushing the feather on the window, the window will break. Can that happen? Can Tony break the window
with a feather?

NAIVE THEORIES AND AMBIGUOUS EVIDENCE

1139

Biologically possible: This is Erin. Erin is in her backyard. Erin is jumping rope. Erin has been jumping rope for a long time. Erin’s
friend tells Erin that if she keeps jumping rope she will get very tired. Can that happen? Can Erin get tired from jumping rope for a long
time?

Biologically impossible: This is Mel. Mel is in the garden. Mel is playing with the soil. Mel pats the soil with her hand. Mel’s friend tells
her that if she pats the soil a lot, the soil will sprout a tomato. Can that happen? Can Mel make a tomato grow by patting the soil?

Psychogenic headache: This is Leslie. Leslie is on the school bus. It’s Leslie’s first day of school today. Leslie is worried about the first
day of school. Leslie worries and worries. Leslie’s friend tells her that if she keeps worrying she’ll get a headache. Can that happen? Can
Leslie get a headache from worrying too much?

Psychogenic sickness: This is Jordan. Jordan is in his bedroom. Jordan is upset and nervous because he has to stay with a babysitter. Jordan
feels very upset about the babysitter. Jordan’s friend tells Jordan that if he keeps being upset and nervous he will start to feel sick. Can
that happen? Can Jordan start to feel sick from being nervous and upset?

Received April 7, 2006
Revision received February 9, 2007

Accepted March 5, 2007 䡲

