on lo - te go of ma le re is to pr me th ar ap to hi co ta , su as pe ( vi , au ) , re - so , in co , an ot ar in be .
we ar th in or to pr to th go , th ma le co mu en to di al th ca le hi co fu , wi mi - im ne fo pr kn , an wi mi hu in .
we pr ma an em ev su th ma po ap to no - pa le , pa ke me , ar fu li - it in th ab to le co hi - di fu .
ou an fo on tw pr .
fi , ke ma ar sh ar , in wh on la la of si te ma is fo by a si la of tr co .
we ar th sh ar ca be ve in - ci in te of re nu of co el an ex .
se - on , we an a li of ke ma wi a lo ke , li to th cu of di , th ap to su , un ( ma le - in ) an se - su ke ma .
us em re on in im re ta , ke me ar co wi de ar , in wh lo - le fe or co ar pr co in mo ab - st an hi - le re .
we ar th de ar ha th po to ge in no - lo wa , i . e . , be im ne , an th th is cr in or to ma pr on th ki of co ta re fo ar in .
st ma le re ha yi a ri se of al an ma - ma to ov th la de , an ha gi ri to a nu of co an sc ap .
ho , so of th in go of th el of re re - ma el .
a lo - te go of ma le re is to pr me th wi en ar in ag ca of le co be wi mi hu in an pr kn .
ex of su co be ar fo in vi pe , au pe , an na la
th ma ob of th ch is to di fu li of ce - ta cl of le al , an po to ap th ov th li .
th li ar fr tw as of th al : sh ar - ch , an lo es .
we wo li ou le al to be ef in th re :
co : nu of co du tr an du re ,
st : nu of ex re fo go ge , es la -
be da , an
hu in : am of hu la ne to ta th al to a ta , i . e . , sp th pr kn bu in th mo be tr .
( ex , or im th en de wi a hu - in - th - lo ) .
th la qu ce ha gi us ex no - pa le al th ca le an co in - ou ma , pr en co re an tr da .
a cr qu is ho ef ar so of th po le - in me wh th ar ap to co pe ta , su a vi pa re wi co in - cl va .
th ch mo fo on co an st ef .
am ex le al , we es a di be sh ar , an de ar .
sh ar ar be ex by mo ke ma ( sc et al . , 12 ) , su as su ve ma ( sv ) ( bo et al . , 12 , co an va , 12 ) .
th co of on la of xe ke fu , wh ro is to ma th in pa wi te ex - tr fr a tr se , fo by a li co of th ma sc .
si th te ar ex fr th tr se , th rs la of a ke ma - ch ca be se as be tr in a so tr un wa .
th on co su to su tr ar th co of th li co -
de ar ar pe be ex by mu - la ne ne wi se hi la .
in ge te , de ar ar co of mu - ti la of pa no - li mo .
th pa of ev mo ar
12 sv on a su of th ex ar se as te ( th su ve ) , bu th is eq -
al to ch wh co of th se la ar no - ze .
su to le .
de ar ra ap in th ma le li - tu th va ma of ne ne re ha fo on sh ar wi a si hi la , be of th di of tr ne wi mo th 12 or 12 la ( te , 12 ) .
no ex in wo on co ne ( le et al . , 12 , le et al . , 12 ) , an re wo on de be ne ( hi et al . , 12 ) .
wh sh ar ha ad , su as th po to us co lo fu , we sh th th al ha li in th ef of th re - ta of ce ty of fu fa .
al a nu of th sh th ce sh ar ( ga ke ma , 12 - hi la ne ne , et ) ca ap an fu wi ar pr , th ma no st as to th ef of th re .
co , de ar ca , in pr - ci , re ce fa of fu mo ef ( an wi be sc pr ) th sh on , bu th as lo fu ar al al no
th ch st wi a sh di ab ta - sp ve mo ge ty of le al .
al th hu br is so ci as an ex - is pr of a ge - pu le al , ap ca be de : th so - ca no - fr - lu th ( wo , 12 ) , as we as va ne an su co fo co ( va , 12 , se ) , cl sh th th is no su th as a co ge le al .
al pr le al - go ar as wi so so of ex or im pr th fa so fu ov ot .
si a qu fo a co ge le me is do to fa , on is re to se fo le mo th ar we su fo a pa ty of ta .
fo us , hi on th li of us ta ar th th mo an ca pe - fo ef , su as pe an co , as we as ta th hi an an hu ca do su as lo - te pr , re , pl , an la un .
in sh , ou ai is to lo fo le me th br us cl to an ar in ag .
wh ma th mo in th en is ho ef - ci ou mo ca ca an re th re kn .
th ef is me al th ma di : th am of tr da re ( es - ci la da ) , th am of co re re to re a gi le of pe , an mo im , th am of hu ef re to sp th pr kn bu in th mo be tr ( ex , or im ) th ch di th sc pr of va le mo , in pa ke ma , wi re to th th di , in pa th rs tw .
ke ma ar no - pa le mo , wh ma ap we as - ti on th fo of th fu f ( ) to be le .
by no - pa me we me me wh al th co of th so to in ( e . g . , by hy - pa se ) wh mo da ar av .
th in cl k - ne - ne al , mo ke ma , mi mo , an mu - la ne ne ( wh th nu of hi un ca be se us th da ) .
ou ar - gu ar ce ar tw li of ke ma : th rs li ap mo ge to sh ar , wh in ne ne wi a si hi la .
in se 12 we co di ty of fu cl , i . e . ,
ar , in di su - ty of sh ar .
we co th tr - of be th de of th ar an it br ( nu of el in ea la ) , th cl th re li of sh ar .
th se li is mo sp an co ke ma wi a lo ke - ne .
th li is st rs in in se 12 by th ex in th us of te ma fo vi pe .
se 12 th fo mo fo on lo es , i . e . , in wh th pr f ( x ) at po x is do by th ne ne of x ta fr th tr se .
th in ke ma in wh th ke is lo , li th ga ke .
th al re on a pr ex as a di or si fu be pa of ex , an en - pa cl st al as we as mo ke ma .
th li is pe , no on in cl , re , an de es , bu al in ma le an se - su le , wh ma mo me ha su lo pr , an ar of ex ba on th gr of ne ne .
us vi pa re as an ex , we il ho th sh na of ke ma le to fu in re .
fi , de ar ar pr as a wa to es fr th fu li ab .
se 12 co on th ad an di of de ar , wh in mu le of tr mo be in an ou .
th ca re th de ex in th le fu , an in th ef of th mo al al th di of am of tr da , am of co re , an am of hu pr ha - co .
al a nu - be of le al fo de ar ha be av fo so ti , tr su ar is st la pe as a di ch .
we di re ap to tr su de ne th fo ne br in th di .
th tr - of be co an no - co ha , up un re , fa re in le al wi co op pr .
we ha fo th no - co op is so mo ef th co op .
no - co lo fu ma be an un pr of le co fu - ti fr we pr kn .
12 le mo to ai
th no - fr - lu th fo le al ( wo , 12 ) st th no co ge - pu le al ca ex , in th se th fo ev le mo th is a da di on wh it wi fa po ( on bo tr an te , in th ca of ni vc di ) .
ev le mo mu co im - pl or ex re on th cl of fu th it ca le .
am th se of al po fu , we ar pa in in a su th co al th ta in in in be .
ex of su ta in vi pe - ti , au pe , pl , co , et .
th se do no ju in sp vi pe ta ( e . g hu fa de ) , bu th se of al th ta th an in ag sh be ab to le .
in th fo , we wi ca th se of fu - ti th ai - se .
be we wa to ac ai , we pr th ta th ar in
al we ma li to th th th hu br is so ge - pu , it is ex re in it ab to le hi - di fu .
th br of hu an hi an , wi th le ab , ca po im th ai - se , an co a wo pr of th fe of ai .
we ad th th ai - se is a ti su of th se of al po fu , bu th sp of th ti su ma be ea th it ap .
to il th po , we wi us th ex rs pr by ( le an de , 12 ) .
th co be th re an th vi ar in th br ge wi up re la in em .
if on ma th ap re as th al po pe of th mi of be in th op ne ar eq , th is no en bi in th ge to en th co wi , an no li lo en to le it .
th at pr as mu be re : so wi mu be si to sp ( or mo li ) th ot .
in wh se li an in fo co , a pa go ( if no co ) wi pa ha to be on th pr to .
co , th wi pa ha to be ve si to de in al an la ( fo ex , th bi la us by bi ca ea sp to - pr wi pa th co gr of ne gr fa ) .
ho ca we be so fo th th co pr be so si to de , ye so in ? le an de ( 12 ) po ou th th br ex in th ve sa ph wo fo wh it ne to bu in mo .
he th sp of go pr fo mo th wo ha to be si in th wo ( th di an to of th wo is co to bo ) .
be of th , we ar al to ho th th ai - se , wh a ti su of al po fu , ma be sp wi a re sm am of in .
in pr , pr kn ca be em in a le mo by sp
th es co :
th re of th da : pr - pr , fe ex , et .
th ar of th ma : th fa of fu th th ma ca
im an it pa .
th lo fu an re : ho di fu in th fa ar ra , gi a se of tr sa , an wh fu ar pr in th ab of tr sa ( pr or re ) .
in by ( hi , to ap .
12 ) , we cl ma le re st - gi in th pu of ai in th ca .
on is de : si no go pa - ra of th ai - se is cu av , le sp a mu sm se fo ea sp ta th ca ha - de of th pr - pr , th ar , an th re .
if ta - sp de mu be de by ha fo ea ne ta , ac ai wi re an ov am of hu ef .
ne - le , th co th mo po ap fo ap ma le to ne pr : de a cl pr - pr ( or da re sc ) , so th a st le mo ( su as an sv ) wi be ab to le th ta .
a so si ap is to sp th ta - sp pr kn in th st of a
gr mo by ex re im in fe an co - ce th la va wh fu de on ob va is ha - wi .
mu of th re in gr mo ( jo , 12 ) ( es of th pa ty ) fo th ap .
bo of th ap , th ke ap - pr wi hu - de ke or fe , an th gr mo ap wi hu - de de st an se , ar ve at in th sh te be th of yi qu re in ma pr on a sp ta , ta ad of hu in an im or ex kn ab th ta , an re sm am of la da .
th se st is de : ev wi a ge ke su as th ga ke , ke ma ca ap an fu , an re ( wi th bo ) gu ge .
wh wo we ne an el ? th be co th no fr lu th .
al ke ma ca re an la of a pa tr se , th ca ef re a ve sm an ve sp su of fu , wh th fo se of th ch wi at - te to ch .
wh th sm su co a la pa of th ai - se is ve du , as we wi sh .
in ge , wh we th of as ge le al - ri ca on wo we wi ce ty of da re an no so we wi ot .
th ca in fa re ce ty of fu ef , an no ot .
wh th cl pr / ge le al ap ma be us fo so sp pr , it br ab li pr on th ro to ai .
ho ca we ho to so th wi va of ta re to ac ai wi th la - in ap ? mo im , ho ca we ev ho to in ea of th se - bu , se - tr , sp mo in a co ar - ti in sy ? ev if we co bu th mo , we wo ne an le pa to be ab to in th in a co sy .
th th st is op : le lo fo le mo th ca be ap to th la po su of th ai - se , wh re th sm po am of ad ha - sp kn fo ea sp ta wi th ai - se .
th qu be : is th a pa of th ai - se th ca be ef im - pl wi co te ?
co fo ex th pr of ob re in co vi : we co be in in bu re fo at le se th ca of ob .
sh we ha sp al fo ea ? si , in na la pr , th fo of mu cu re is on de ap fe fo sp ta su as re or pa te of a pa ty ( su as sp em , jo ad , na ne , et ) .
ar we go to ha to do th la - in wo fo al th po ty of te ? ou sy wi no be ve sm if we ha to ma en ne pa ea ti ne a ty of te or ne ty of ob ca mu be pr .
if th ex mo ge - pu le mo , at le ge en to ha mo of th ta th an an hu ca ha , th se fo th ma sa us a co am of la in th lo ru .
as di in th ne se , a ma co wa to ch th ki of co ta ne fo ai is th th in le hi no - li fu wi ma va ( i . e . , wh de ch di of ) .
th is pr in co wi a pr th sm fu ar mo li , i . e . ,
ha fe or sm va .
we me f to be sm wh th va of f ( x ) an of it de f ( x ) ar cl to th va of f ( x + ) an f ( x + ) re wh x an x + ar cl as de by a ke or a di .
th ch ad se ar th th sm pr al is in to le hi - va fu .
th is in re to th cu of di , bu as we nd th ou in , it is no th nu of di so mu as th am of va th ma .
a on - di fu co be di to le , an ma hi - di fu ca be ap we en wi a sm fu , so th no - pa me re on on th sm pr ca st gi go re .
we ca st pr a ty of pr kn th gi hi pr ( or lo co ) to a ve sm se of fu ( ge re to a sm se of ta ) , an br pr a ty of pr kn th gi mo hi pr to a wi se of re fu ( wh ma co a la su of ta wi th ai - se ) .
st pr ar ta - sp , wh br pr ar mo re to th ge st of ou wo .
we co pr co th if a fu ha ma lo va ( he is no ve sm ) , th it is no le un st pr kn is at ha .
fo , th is no tr .
fi , th is no re to be th sm pr sh ha a sp st ov ot ty of pr .
us sm pr wh we kn th th fu we wa to le ar no - sm wo se co - pr .
ot br pr ar po .
a si wa to de a pr is to de a la ( e . g . , a pr la ) wi wh we ex fu , an fa fu th ha a lo ko co in th la , i . e .
fu wh pr is sh .
co us th c pr la ( al wi st li th co wi it ) to de ou pr , an le fu su as g ( x ) = si ( x ) ( wi x a re va ) or g ( x ) = pa ( x ) ( wi x a bi ve of xe di ) .
th wo be re ea to le wi a sm nu of sa be th de is ex sh in c an th ar ve pr un th co pr , de th fa th th ar hi no - sm .
we do no ad th ex us of ko co in a co pr la to de ne le al , bu we us th ex to il th it is po to le ap co fu ( in th se th va a lo ) us br pr , by us a no - lo le al , co to pr ot th th sm pr .
th th ex an th st of to pr li th pa pr in th re of th ch al sh th th ma ch is to de le al th ca di re of th da th co de re in it .
th is in co wi th ap of en th va pr in th tr da , an ho to re on lo sm to co ll in th sp be th tr sa .
as we me ea , th ma ex br pr , wi se si de - sc , th gr re th sp of ac fu in ap wa .
in vi sy , an ex of su a br pr , wh is in by na bi to re ma , is th ki of co us in co ne - wo fo vi pa re ( le et al . , 12 , le et al . , 12 ) .
th wi be ex in de in se 12
an ex of br pr , wh we di in se 12 , is th th fu to be le sh be ex as mu -
pl le of co of si fu , wh di le of fu ca be vi as di le of ab .
th no of co an of ab - ti th we ta ab is ra br an si me a ra qu st de of th ob da , an us in bu a re of it di - bu th ge we .
fu at lo le of ab sh be fo us fo ca so si as of th da di , so th it is po - bl to rs le th si fu an th co th to le mo ab co .
an an hu do le in th wa , wi si co ea in li , an hi - le ab la , ex in te of th pr le co .
no al fu ca be de in th wa , bu hu ap to ha su a co .
if su a hi di no ex , hu wo be ab to le ne co in an or .
he we ca ho th th ty of pr ma be us to he co th ai - se , bu ye sp en to ex th va ma of us
it is a th of th pr wo th le al th bu su de la ar of a pr av fo sc ma le to ai .
an re th is th on sh no co th la va of ta se , bu as di as of a mo ge pr : th of le th ba st of th wo , as se sa th th ey an ea of a gr an or a yo ch .
th is an in of mu - ta le wh it is cl th th di ta sh a st co .
th al us to ho th af tr su a sy on a la va of ta in th ai - se , th sy ma ge to a ne ta fr on a fe la ex .
we hy th ma ta in th ai - se ma be bu ar co re , wh ca be un as a se of in co .
if ou go is to bu a le ma fo th ai - se , ou re sh co -
ce on de le mo wi th fo fe :
a hi ex wa to sp pr kn , he a le al
th ca fu wi a la re of ar .
a le al th ca de wi de ar , in wh a de in th ma of ma in co , an mu le of
a le al th ca ha la fa of fu , pa
wi mi of in pa .
a le al th ca be tr ef ev , wh th nu of tr ex be ve la .
th ex le al re - in to st an it mu ti ov th wh tr se , or fo wh th am of co pe ex in as mo ex ar se .
th st su th us of on - li le .
a le al th ca di co th ca be sh ea am mu ta an mu mo ( mu - ta le ) , an th ca ta ad of la am of un da ( se - su le ) .
12 le ar , sh an de
12 ar ty
in th se , we de th no of sh an de ar .
an in di of th re ad an di is pr us ex .
a mo fo di of th li of sh ar wi lo sm - ne ( wh in mo mo ke me ) is gi in th ne se .
fo th tr of th cl bo pe ( mi an pa , 12 ) , it is in to ca di ty of le ar an to an th li an ad .
to x id , co th si ca of cl in wh a di la is pr by th le ma y = f ( x , w ) , wh x is th in pa , an w a pa wh in th fa of fu f th ca be im by th ar f = ( f ( , w ) , w w ) .
fi 12 : di ty of sh ar .
( a ) ty - 12 : xe pr an li pr ( b ) ty - 12 : te ma an li pr ( ke ma ) ; ( c ) ty - 12 : si tr ba fu an li pr ( ne ne wi on hi la , rb ne ) .
tr pe , li ma cu po le mo , ar sh - lo ar .
di ty of sh ar ar re in gu 12
ty - 12 ar ha xe pr in th rs la ( e . g . , pe ) .
ty - 12 ar ha te ma in th rs la ( e . g . , ke ma ) .
ty - 12 ar ha si tr ba fu in th rs la ( e . g . , ne ne wi on hi la , rb ne ) .
al th ha a li tr in th
12 . 12 sh ar ty 12
fi pr - pr pl li pr , gu 12 ( a ) : th si sh ar - te is co of a xe pr la ( so ca fe or ba - si fu ) , fo by a li pr .
th ty of li pr us , an th wa it is tr is un ( ma - ma , lo re , pe ,
ve : f ( x ) = pk
sq er re . . . . ) .
th fa f is li pa in th pa i= wi ( x ) .
th ty of ar is wi us in pr - ca ap .
si th pr - pr is xe ( an ha - cr ) , it is ne ta - sp in pr .
it is po to im a sh ty - 12 ma th wo pa th co ai - se .
fo ex , we co im a ma in wh ea fe is a me of th ai - se , he ea pa me of th ai - se ca be re wi a we ve co al ze , ex fo a si 12 at th ri pl .
wh th pr ex mo co wa to li pa - te th en ai - se , th nu of ne fe wo su be pr .
mo im , we do no kn ex th fu of th ai - se , so th is no
12 . 12 sh ar ty 12
f ( x ) = b + pn
te ma pl li pr , gu 12 ( b ) : ne on th sc of ad is th tr ke ma ar .
th pr is a ve of va re fr th ap of a ke fu k ( x , xi ) to ea tr sa i= ik ( x , xi ) , wh n is th nu of tr sa , th pa - ra w co al th i an th bi b .
in ef , th rs la ca be se as a se of te ma in wh th te ar th tr sa .
ty - 12 ar ca be se as sp fo of ty - 12 ar in wh th fe ar da - de , wh is to sa i ( x ) = k ( x , xi ) .
th is a si fo of un - pe le , fo th rs la .
th th fa ke tr ( se ( sc et al . , 12 ) ) , ty - 12 ar ca be se as a co wa of re ty - 12 ar , in so th ma be to la to be pr .
if th ke fu sa th me co it ca be ex as an in pr be fe ve k ( x , xi ) =< ( x ) , ( xi ) > , gi us a li re be th
pa ve in bo fo : w fo ty - 12 ar is i ( xi )
ve at fe of su ar is th fo se co lo fu ( e . g . , sq er , ma lo ) tr th in a co op pr .
wh th pr ar la pe as th ma be ke me , th sh no di us fr th fa th th rs la of a ke ma is of ju a se of te ma .
in mo ke ma , th ke is us as a ki of te ma , bu ot ch ar po .
us ta - sp pr kn , on ca de a ke th in th ri ab fo th ta .
th co at th co of lo ef in te of hu la .
wh a ke ac li a te ma , we ca it lo : k ( x , xi ) di be va of x th ar ne xi an th th ar no .
so of th ma re in th ch fo on th ga ke , wh ne co to sm eu di .
on co sa th on of th ma is wi ke ma wi lo ke is th th ar li mo th te ma .
it is po to us ke th ar no - lo ye no ta - sp , su as th li ke an po ke - ne .
ho , mo pr ha be pr li ke or lo ke .
li ke ar ty - 12 sh ar , wi th ob li .
lo ke ha be po be th ma in se ( it is ea to in pr kn ) , wh po ke te to ge ve po wh ex -
la ( e . g . , gr ov ) .
th sm pr im in lo ke is qu re fo a lo of th ap th ha be co , wh th pr im by po ke is le cl .
le th ke wo mo us to ty - 12 sh ar or de ar de be .
12 . 12 sh ar ty 12
si tr ba fu pl li pr , gu 12 ( c ) : in ty - 12 sh ar , th rs la co of si ba fu th ar tr th su le .
th ca im th ef of th fu re , by tu th ba fu to a ta .
si tr ba fu in li co fo by po - wi no - li an ga ra - ba fu - ti ( rb ) .
tr ne ne wi on hi la , an rb ne be to th ca .
ke ma in wh th ke fu is le ( an si ) al be to th sh ty - 12 ca .
ma bo al be to th cl as we .
un wi ty 12 an 12 , th ou is a no - li fu of th pa to be le .
he th lo fu mi by le ar li to be no - co in th pa .
th de of ty - 12 ar is so fu , si it re on th il - de co of si pa
we sh im em th th bo be th va ca - go is so fu .
fo ex , tr th hi la of a on - hi - la ne ne ( a ty - 12 sh ar ) is a no - co pr , bu on co im - in co a hi la so la th al po hi un fu wo be pr fr th st .
on th ou la wo ne to be tr .
mo sp - ic , wh th nu of hi un be ve la , an an l1 re is us on th ou we , su a ne ne be a ke ma , wh ke ha a si fo th ca be co an ( be et al . , 12 ) .
if we us th ma lo th be an sv wi a pa ke .
al co is on ac in th ma li of an in nu of hi un , we co th op of si - hi - la ne ne be ea as th nu of hi un be la .
if si - hi - la ne ne ha an ad ov sv , it is th th ca , in pr , ac si pe wi a sm rs la ( si th pa of th rs la ca be op fo
no al th ou ma re on lo ke ma ar li in sc , an mo ar de fo sp ke su as th ga ke , or fo lo ke ( in th se of k ( u , v ) be ne ze wh || v| be la ) .
ho , th ar pr be co th sh of ke ma - ch ar mo ge .
12 . 12 de ar
de ar ar co of ma la of ad no - li co , in ot wo , th ar ca of pa no - li mo th co tr pa at al le .
de ar al th re of wi
fa of fu in a mo co fo th sh ar , be th ca tr sp fo ti ( or br fo de ) wh ma th ti - sp pr sm , as di be .
th ou of th in la ar ak to in - di re on th wa to co th na ou .
fe pr by th lo la re lo - le ab , th ar co to fo hi - le fe at th ne la , re hi - le ab .
12 th de - br tr
an sp fu ca be im by a su de sh ar - tu or by a de ar .
si , wh pa a fa of fu , we ha th ch be sh or de ar .
th im qu ar : 12
ho la is th co ar ( wi ho ma pa , ho mu co to pr th ou ) ; 12
ho mu ma la is in in sp th ar to th ta .
us a nu of ex , we sh de th de ar ar of mo ef ( in te of nu of co co an pa ) fo re co fu .
fo an of th co co of sh ci ca be fo in ha ( 12 ) or al ( 12 ) .
th po in th sa di : sh ci ar mu le ex th de on .
le us rs co th ta of ad tw n - bi bi nu .
th mo na ci in ad th bi pa by pa an pr th ca .
th ca pr - ag ta o ( n ) st , an al o ( n ) ha re .
he th mo na ar fo bi ad is a de on , wi o ( n ) la an o ( n ) el .
a sh ar ca im an bo fo ex in di no fo ( dn ) , by co th mi ( an fu ) in th rs la , an th su or fu us a li cl ( a th ga ) wi a lo th .
un , ev fo si bo op su as bi ad an mu , th nu of te ca be ex la ( up to o ( 12 ) fo n - bi in in th wo ca ) .
th co in ha in fa de a co am of ef to op th im of ex bo fu , bu th la it ca pu on a si ch ha on ab 12 in bi ( a 12 - gb ra ch , as of 12 ) .
th is wh pr di ci , e . g . , fo ad or mu tw nu ar bu wi mu la of lo ga : th 12 - la im ( ak to a lo ta ) wo be pr ex .
se ( ut an st , 12 ) fo a pr di of th qu in th co of le ar .
an in ex is th bo pa fu .
th n - bi bo
pa fu ca be im in at le ve wa :
( 12 ) wi n da - ch xo ga ( an n - la ar or a re ci
wi on xo ga an n ti st ) ;
( 12 ) wi n 12 xo ga ar in a tr ( a lo n la ar ) , fo a to
of o ( n lo n ) co
( 12 ) a dn fo wi o ( 12 ) mi ( tw la ) .
ar 12 ha hi de an lo br ( sm am of co el ) , ar 12 is a go tr be de an br , an ar 12 ha hi br an lo de .
if on al th us of mu - in bi th ga ( li cl ) in ad to tr lo ga , tw mo ar ar po ( mi an pa , 12 ) :
( 12 ) a 12 - la ar co as fo .
th rs la ha n bi th - ol ga ( li cl ) in wh un i ad th in bi an su i , he co th pr xi = ( su of bi i ) .
th se la co ( n 12 ) / 12 an ga th co ( xi d ( n ot xi ) ) fo al i th ar od .
th la la is a si or ga .
( 12 ) a 12 - la ar in wh th rs la is id to th of th 12 - la ar - ch ab , an th se la is a li th ga ( li cl ) wh th we fo in xi is eq to ( 12 ) i .
th fo ar re a dy ra ( ac ) on th we li in n , wh th la on re a dy ra ex in n .
a pr th n - bi pa re o ( 12 ) ga to be re by a de - 12 bo ci ( wi an , no an or ga ) ca be fo in aj ( 12 ) .
in th 12 ( se 12 . 12 ) we st a si re fo le ar : an ex nu of te is re wi a ga ke ma in or to re th pa fu .
in ma in , sp ( or br ) ca be tr fo ti ( or de ) wi co
th ne re ma se re of th cl re in mi an pa bo pe ( mi an pa , 12 ) .
th sh co as no su : sh ar ( pa of ty 12 an 12 ) fa in mi an pa ge de of a pe an ar su to ma of it li .
an in ex in wh ad la is be is th fa fo tr al ( ff ) .
si th di fo tr is a li op , it ca be pe by a ma mu wi n 12 co mu , wh ca al be pe in pa , fo by o ( n 12 ) ad to co th su .
ho th ff al ca re th to co to 12 12 n lo n , mu , wi th tr of re lo n se st in n 12 mu ea .
th ex sh th , ev wi li fu , ad la al us to ta ad of th in re in th ta .
be ea va ca be ei ab , pr , or ne in a mi , th ar m = 12 di po mi wh th ci ha n in .
th se of al po dn fo wi k mi an n in ha c ( m , k ) el ( th nu of co of k el fr m ) .
cl th se ( wh is as wi th se of fu re wi k mi ) gr ve fa wi k .
go fr k 12 to k mi in th nu of co by a fa ( m k ) / k .
wh k is no cl to m , th si of th se of dn fo is ex in th nu of in n .
th ar wo su th on an ex ( in n ) sm fr of al bo fu re a le th ex nu of
we cl th mo fu th ca be re co by de ar - tu ca be re by a co sh ar .
im re th lo op ov k la of a lo ci in a dn fo .
th op - er pe by th ga on ea of th la ar li to ge co in a nu of mi th co be ex in th or nu of la .
to se th , co a k la lo ci wh ev od la ha an ga ( wi th op of ne ar ) an ev ev la ha or ga .
ev an - or co la co to a su of pr in mo - 12 ar .
th wh ci is th co of k / 12 su su of pr , an it is th a de fa - ti of a fo .
in ge , wh a fa re is ex in a si su of pr , on ge a nu of te th ca be ex in th nu of le .
a si ph ex wh mo co dn fo re an ex nu of te wh wr as a co no fo ( cn ) fo .
a su of mo ge re in co co of bo ci - cu ca be fo in al ( 12 ) .
fo ex , ha ( 12 ) sh th fo al k , th ar de k + 12 ci of li si th re ex si to si wi de k ci .
th im th mo fu re co wi a de ar wo re a ve la nu of co if re wi a sh on .
he re ou to sh ar un li th sp of fu th ca be re co an le ef ( at le in a st se ) .
in pa , hi - va fu ( in th se of ha - in hi fr in th fo sp ) ar di to re wi a ci of de 12 ( li et al . , 12 ) .
th re th we pr in se 12 yi a si co : re hi - va fu wi a ga ke ma is
12 th li of ma gl te
be di in th fo an of lo mo , we co th ke ma ( ty - 12 ar ) wi de ar us ex .
on of th fu pr in pa re is ho to ha in - cl va .
ta th ex - am of le re , we ca pi th se of al th po im of th le e on a 12 12 pi gr as a se of co ma in th pi sp ( e . g . , a ma fo lo ca an on fo cu ) .
th es on a ma ca be co - ou mo in ea ot by fo a pa on th ma .
th di of th ma at on lo co to th nu of in di th ca ca be ap to an im wh pr it ca .
fo ha le - te ca , th ma ha a hi di : le ca be di us af tr ( 12 pa ) , di us an el sh de ( hi di - si ) , or mo so as to co th ra of po wr st , sh , an st wi .
ev fo si ch im , th ma is ve no - li , wi hi cu .
to co ou of th , co th sh of th le w .
an pi in th lo ha of th im wi go fr wh to bl an wh ag fo ti as th w is sh ho wi th im fr fr le to ri .
th is th si of a hi no - li su .
mo , ma fo ot ch ca ar cl in .
co th sh of a ca u an an o at th sa lo .
th ha ma pi in co , ma mo pi in fa th wi a sh ve - si of th sa u .
he th di be th u an o ma is sm th th di be tw us sh by a fe pi .
an in ab th hi cu of th ma ca be ob fr th ex in gu 12 : th ta ve of th ho tr ma ch ab as we tr th im - ag on on pi to th ri , in hi cu .
as di in se 12 , ma ke al ma an im as of a lo sm fu ( e . g . , lo li in th ca of sv ) ar ea tr ex xi .
he a hi cu - va im th ne of a la nu of tr ex in or to co al th de tw an tu wi lo co or lo li pi .
th br us to wh we pe as th ma sh of te - ba me : a ve la nu of te ma be re in or to co ea ma wi en te to av mi .
fu , th nu of ne te ca gr ex wi th in di of a cl - in ma .
th on wa to ci th pr wi a ty - 12 ar - tu is to de si me fo ma te ( ke fu ) su th tw pa th ar on th sa ma ar de si .
un , de su si me , ev fo a pr as ba as di re , ha pr di , de al 12 ye of ac re .
fu , if su a go ta - sp ke we na de , it ma be in to ot cl
to fu il th si , co th pr of de an id a si mo ( sa , of si s = 12 pi ) th ca ap at d di lo in a un wh im wi n pi ( sa 12 pi ) .
to so th pr , a si ke - ma ar wo re on te of th mo fo ea po - bl lo .
th re n . d el op .
an ar th al fo sp lo fe de wo me re s . d el op .
we sh em th th sp lo ( fe de th de on pi wi a li ra in th im pl ) is di fr th lo of ke fu - ti ( fe de th pr la va on fo in ve th ar wi a li ra in th in ve sp ) .
in fa , sp lo fe de ha no - lo re in th sp of in ve , si th ou is in of th in pi th ar no co to .
a sl mo co ex is th ta of de an re a pa co of tw di mo .
ea mo oc s pi , an ca ap at d di lo in of ea ot .
a ke ma wo ne a se te fo ea po oc of th tw mo , i . e . , n . d1 co el .
by co , a pr de ty - 12 ar wo me re a se of lo fe de fo al th po of th rs mo , an a si se fo th se mo .
th to am of el op is a me 12 . d .
we do no kn of an ke th wo al to ef ha co st .
an ev mo di si oc if th ba is no un wh , bu ca co ra cl .
a ke ma wo pr ne ma di te co th de mo on to of ma di ba .
by co - tr , th lo - co de ar de in th pr pa wi ha th si ju ne .
we ha ve th ty of be ex
( se ex in se 12 ) .
th th ex il th li of ke ma du to th fa th th rs la is re to ma th in pa wi gl te - pl .
by co , th ty - 12 ar th us sp lo fe de ha th po ji an th cl ea an ef .
bo ar ar sh , bu wh ea ke fu is ac in a sm ar of th in sp , th sp lo fe de ar ac by a hu ( n s ) - di su - sp of th in sp ( si th on lo at s pi ) .
de ar wi sp - lo fe de ar ev mo ef ( se se 12 ) .
he th li - it of ke ma ar no ju du to th sh , bu al to th lo ch of th re fu ( lo in in sp , no in th sp of im
12 fu li of lo le
a la fr of th re wo in st ma le ha fo on no - pa le al wh re so , ex or im , on a sm pr .
a sm pr fa fu f su th wh x x , f ( x ) f ( x ) .
ad pr kn is ex by ch th sp of th da an th pa no of si be ex ( ty ex as a ke fu ) .
th cl of le al in mo in of th ke ma al ( sc et al . , 12 ) , su as su ve ma ( sv ) ( bo et al . , 12 , co an va , 12 ) or ga pr ( wi an ra , 12 ) , bu al un le al th at to ca - tu th ma st of th da , su as lo li em ( ro an sa , 12 ) , is ( te et al . , 12 ) , ke pc ( sc et al . , 12 ) , la ei ( be an ni , 12 ) , ma ch ( br , 12 ) , an sp cl al ( se we ( 12 ) fo a re ) .
mo re , th ha al be mu in in no - pa se - su le al - ri , su as zh et al .
( 12 ) , zh et al .
( 12 ) , be et al .
( 12 ) , de et al .
( 12 ) , wh al fa in th ca , an sh ma id wi ma
si th is a la cl of al an on th co to at at , it is wo to in it li .
si th me sh ma ch - ac wi cl no - pa st le al su as th k - ne ne an th pa wi re an de es al - ri ( du an ha , 12 ) wh ha be sh to su fr th so - ca cu of di , it is lo to in th fo qu : to wh ex - te do th mo ke me su fr a si pr ? se ( ha et al . , 12 ) fo a re an ea ac ex of th cu of di fo cl no - pa me .
to ex th qu , we fo on al in wh th le fu is ex in te of a li co of ke fu ap on th tr
f ( x ) = b +
wh we ha in an op bi te b .
th se d = ( z1 , .
, zn ) co tr ex zi = xi fo un le , zi = ( xi , yi ) fo su le .
ta va yi ca ta a sp mi va fo se - su le .
th is ar sc ch by th le al us d , an kd ( , ) is th ke - ne fu , a sy fu ( so ex to be po se - de ) , wh ma be ch by ta in ac al th xi .
a ty ke fu is th ga ke ,
k ( u , v ) = e 12
wi th wi co ho lo th ke is .
se be et al .
( 12 ) to se th ll , is , la ei an ot sp ma le al su as sp cl ca be ge an wr in th fo of eq .
12 fo a te po x , bu wi a di ke ( th is da - de , ge pe a ki of no of a da - in ke ) .
on ob th co of cl no - pa es by ap va th hy - pa th co th lo of th es as n in .
ba , th ke sh be al to be mo an mo lo , so th st - ti bi go to ze , bu th ef nu of ex in in th es at x ( eq to k fo th k - ne ne es ) sh in as n in , so th st va is al dr to 12
fo a wi cl of ke re es , th un va an sq bi ca be sh to be wr as fo ( ha et al . , 12 ) :
ex er =
nd + c1 ,
wi c1 an c1 no de on n no on th di d .
he an op ba - 12 , an th re ge er ( no co - wi is ch pr to n in th no ) co in n1 / ( 12 ) , wh be ve sl fo la d .
co fo ex th in in nu of ex re to ge th sa le of er , in 12 di ve d di .
if n1 is th nu of ex re to ge a pa le of er , to ge th sa le of er in d di re on th or of n ( 12 ) / 12 ex , i . e . , th re nu of ex is ex in d .
fo th k - ne ne cl , a si re is ob ( sn an ve ,
ex er = e +
wh e is th as er , d is th di an n th nu of ex .
no ho th , if th da di is co on a lo di ma , it is th ma di th ma .
fo ex , wh da li on
a sm lo - di ma , th on di th ma to a k - ne ne cl is th di of th ma , si it on us th eu di be th ne ne .
ma un an se - su le al re on a gr wi on no pe ex , in wh ne ex ar co wi an ed we by th eu di be - tw th .
if da li on a lo - di ma th ge di in th gr ap ge di on th ma ( te et al . , 12 ) , as th nu of ex in .
ho , co ca be ex sl fo
12 mi nu of ba re
in th se we pr re sh th nu of re ba ( he of tr - in ex ) of a ke ma wi ga ke ma gr li wi th nu of va of th ta fu th mu be ca in or to ac a gi er le .
12 . 12 re fo su le
th fo th hi th nu of si ch th a ga ke ma ca ac , wh it ha k ba ( i . e . , k su ve , or at le k tr
th 12 ( th 12 of sc ( 12 ) ) .
le f : r r co by a ga ke ma ( eq .
12 ) wi k ba ( no - ze is ) .
th f ha at mo 12 ze .
we wo li to sa so ab ke ma in rd , an we ca do th si by co a st li in rd an th nu of si ch th th so fu f ca ac al th li .
co 12
su th th le pr is su th in or to ac a gi er le fo sa fr a di p wi a ga ke ma ( eq .
12 ) , th f mu ch si at le 12 ti al so st li ( i . e . , in th ca of a cl , th de su mu be cr at le 12 ti by th st li ) .
th th ke ma mu ha at le k ba ( no - ze is ) .
a pr ca be fo in be et al .
( 12 ) .
ex 12
co th de su sh in gu 12 , wh is a si fu .
on ma ta ad of th gl re to le it wi fe pa - ra ( th re fe ex ) , bu wi an af co of ga , co 12 im on wo ne at le m 12 = 12 ga .
fo mo co ta in hi di , th co of th de su co qu ma le im wh us su a lo ke me .
of co , on on se to ap th de su s , an do no ne ne to le it pe : co 12 sa no ab th ex of an ea - to - le de su ap s .
fo in , in th ex of
fi 12 : th do li cr th de su 12 ti : on th ne at le 12 ga to le it wi an af co of ga wi sa wi .
gu 12 , th do li co tu ou to be a go en es de su if mo sa we fa fr th tr de su , an th li ca be ob wi on tw ga .
th ab th te us th in or to re a fu th lo va a lo , in th se th it si al a st li ch ma ti , a ga ke ma re ma tr ex an ma co el .
no th it sa no ab th di of th in sp , bu we mi ex to ha to le fu th va mo wh th da is hi - di .
th ne th co th su in th sp ca of th d - bi pa fu :
pa : ( b1 , .
, bd ) ( 12 , 12 ) d 12 ( ci : 12 ) 12 if pd
i= bi is ev
le th ap si fu wi ga ce on po in ( 12 , 12 ) d is ac di , in th se th it re a nu of ga ex in d ( fo a xe ga wi ) .
no th ou co 12 do no ap to th d - bi pa fu , so it re an ty of lo va ( no al a li ) .
ho , it is al po to pr a ve st re fo pa .
th 12
le f ( x ) = b +p
i= ik ( xi , x ) be an af co of ga wi sa wi ce on po xi xd .
if f so th pa pr , th th ar at le 12 no - ze co i .
a pr ca be fo in be et al .
( 12 ) .
th bo in th 12 is ti , si it is po to so th pa pr wi ex 12 ga an a bi , fo in by us a ne bi an pu a
po we on ea ex sa pa ( xi ) = 12
wh tr to le th pa fu , a sv ma le a fu th lo li th op of th pa on te po ( wh st pe op on tr po ) , bu it is an ar of th sp ge of th pr , an on oc wh th tr se si is ap co to |x = 12 ( se be et al .
( 12 ) fo de ) .
no th if th ce of th ga ar no re an to be po in th tr se ( i . e . , a ty - 12 sh ar ) , it is po to so th pa pr wi on d + 12 ga an no bi ( be et al . , 12 ) .
on ma ar th pa is a si di to pr of li in .
bu ev if we ha to re th an to di sa in ( 12 , 12 ) d fo ma re , th pa fu ca be ex to a sm fu on th ( 12 , 12 ) d hy - cu de on on th co su b1 + .
th 12 is th a ba to ar th th nu of ga ne to le a fu wi ma va in a co sp ma sc li wi th nu of th va , an th po ex in th di .
12 . 12 re fo se - su le
in th se we fo on al of th ty de in re pa ( zh et al . , 12 , zh et al . , 12 , be et al . , 12 , de et al . , 12 ) , wh ar gr - ba , no - pa , se - su le al .
no th tr sv ( jo , 12 ) , wh ar an cl of se - su al , ar al su to th li of co 12
th gr - ba al we co - si he ca be se as mi th fo co fu , as sh in de et al .
( 12 ) :
c ( y ) = k yl yl + y l y + k y k1
wi y = ( y1 , .
, yn ) th es la on bo la an un da , an l th ( un - no ) gr la ma , de th l = d1 / 12 d1 / 12 fr a ke fu k be po su th th gr ma w , wi wi = k ( xi , xj ) , co to th we of th ed in th gr , an d is a di
ma co in - de : di = pj wi .
he , yl = ( y1 , .
, yl ) is th ve
of es la on th l la ex , wh kn la ar gi by yl = ( y1 , .
, yl ) , an on ma co yl = yl as in zh et al .
( 12 ) by le 12
we de a re wi co la as a co su of th gr wh al no xi ha th sa es la ( si of yi ) , an su th no ot no ca be ad wh ke th pr .
mi of th co cr of eq .
12 ca al be se as a la pr al , i . e . , la ar sp ar la ex , wi ne be de by th st of th gr , i . e . , by th ke .
an in vi of la pr su th a re of th ma ne a la ( e . g . , po ) ex wi be en la po , as th ex sp it in by pr on th gr re th un ma .
th , th nu of re wi co la sh be on th sa or as ( or le th ) th nu of la ex .
th is ea to se in th ca of a sp gr ma w .
we de a re wi co la as a co su of th gr wh al no xi ha th sa
es la ( si of yi ) , an su th no ot no ca be ad wh ke th pr .
th fo pr th ho ( no th it is al tr , bu tr , wh w de a fu co gr ) .
pr 12
af ru a la pr al mi th co of eq .
12 , th nu of re wi co es la is le th ( or eq to ) th nu of la ex .
a pr ca be fo in be et al .
( 12 ) .
th co is th we wi ne at le as ma la ex as th ar va in th cl , as on mo by sm st in th ne gr fr on co re of sa la to an - ot .
ag we se th sa ty of no - pa le al wi a lo ke , he in th ca of se - su le : we ma ne ab as ma la - be ex as th ar va , ev th an ar la nu of th va co ha be ch mo ef th by th en .
12 sm ve lo : cu of di
co a ga sv an ho th es ch as on va , th hy - pa of th ga ke .
fo la on wo ex th es fu to be ve sm , wh fo sm on wo ex th es fu to be ve lo , in th se di ea : th ne ne of x ha do in in th sh of th pr at x .
th fo pr te us wh ha wh is la , or wh we co -
si wh a ba wh ra is sm co to .
pr 12
fo th ga ke cl , as in an be la co wi th di of th da , wi th sm sp co th da
th de su be li if i = 12 ( e . g . , fo sv ) , or el th no
ve of th de su be a li co of tw sp su no ve , wi ea sp ce on a we av of th ex of th co cl .
a pr ca be fo in be et al .
( 12 ) .
no th wi th pr we se cl th wh be la , a ke cl be no - lo ( it ap a li cl ) .
ho , th no - lo is at th pr of co th de su to be ve sm , ma it di to mo hi va de su .
th is th es of th tr - of be sm an lo in ma si no - pa mo ( in th cl on su as k - ne - ne an pa wi al ) .
no co in wh se a ga ke ma is lo ( th ab sm ) .
co a te po x th is ne th de su .
we cl th th or of th de su is do by th ne xi of x in th tr se , ma th pr lo in it de .
if we co th i xe ( i . e . , ig th de on th tr xi ) , th it is ob th th pr f ( x ) is do by th ne ne xi of x , si k ( x , xi ) 12 qu wh || xi / be la .
ho , th i ca be in by al th xj .
th fo pr sk th is by lo at th rs de of f .
fi 12 : fo lo ma le al su as ll , is an ke pc , th ma ta pl at x is in th sp of th di ve be te po x an it ne xi in th tr se .
th ma th al se to th cu of di , wh th ma is hi - di an no ve at .
pr 12
fo th ga ke cl , th no of th ta of th de su at x is co to ap li in th sp of th ve ( x xi ) wi || xi no la co to an xi in th tr se .
sk of th pr
a po x of th de su is
th es is f ( x ) =p ik ( x , xi ) .
th no ve of th ta pl at
12 k ( x , xi ) .
ea te is a ve pr to th di ve xi .
th su is do by th te wi || xi no la co to .
we ar th le wi f ( x ) ap in th sp of th di ve x xi wi xi a ne ne of x .
th i be on sc , th on in th we of ea ne xi in th li co .
he al f ( x ) ca be in by xi fa fr x , th de su ne x ha a no ve th is co to ap li in th sp of th ve x xi wi xi ne x .
q . e . d .
th co of f ( x )
x be in th sp of th ve x xi fo ne xi of x is no st if th ma of in ( e . g . , th re of th de su wi hi de ) ha lo di .
in if th di is sm or eq to th nu of do ne , th th is no co at al .
ho - ev , wh mo co de in ma fa of va , th re of in ma ha ve hi di ( e . g . , co th ef of va th ha ar la di , su as ch in cl , ba , et
im ) .
fo su a co hi - va ta fu , we al ne a ve lo pr ( sm ) in or to ac re al th de va .
wi a sm , th nu of do ne wi be sm co to th di of th ma of in , ma th lo in th de a st co , an al th fo cu of di ar .
th no of lo in th se of th de al us to de a ba ar ea te po x , co ne th ha a do in on f ( x ) sm wi th ba co th de su to be ap ei li ( ca of sv ) or a pa qu fo ( th de su no ve is a li co of tw ve de by th ce of ma of ex of ea cl ) .
le n be th nu of su ba ne to co th re wh th va of th es is de ( e . g . , ne th ta de su , in th ca of cl pr ) .
le k be th sm nu su th on ne at le k ex in ea ba to re er le .
th nu of ex th re is kn .
to se th n ca be ex in so di , co th ma ra r of al th ba an th ra r of .
if ha in di d , th n co be as la as th nu of ra - r ba th ca ti a d - di ma
of ra r , wh is on th or of ( ci : 12 ) r
in be et al .
( 12 ) we pr si re th ap to un le - in al su as no - pa ma le al ( ro an sa , 12 , te et al . , 12 , sc et al . , 12 , be an ni , 12 ) .
we nd th wh th un ma va a lo in th se of ha hi cu - tu in ma pl , th a la nu of ex is re .
no th th ta pl of th ma is de by th de of th ke ma fu f , fo su al .
th co re is th th ma ta pl at x is do by te as wi th ne ne of x in th tr se ( mo pr it is co to be in th sp of th ve x xi , wi xi a ne of x ) .
th id is il in gu 12
in th ca of gr - ba ma le al su as ll an is , th do of ne ex is pe ( i . e . , th de is st in th sp of th di ve wi th ne ) , be th ke im - pl in th al ta va 12 fo th no - ne .
wi su lo ma le al , on ne to co th ma wi sm en li pa wi at le d + 12 ex pe pa ( wh d is th di of th ma ) .
th ar wa pr in in be an mo ( 12 ) to de th li of ne - ba ma le al .
an ex th il th ma in ma ca ha hi cu is th of tr of hi - co im , sh in gu 12
th sa ar ap to th ot ge in of im of ob .
12 de ar
th an in th pr se po to th di of le hi - va fu .
th ar fu wi a la nu of va ( tw an tu ) in th do of in , e . g . , th wo re a la nu of pi to be we - re by a pi - li ap .
si th nu of pi ca be
fi 12 : th ma of tr of a hi - co im ha hi cu .
a sm ma is ob by co th an im is a sa on a di gr of an in fu ov a tw - di sp .
th ta ve fo tr is th a ta im , an it ha hi va on on th ed of th in .
th ta pl fo an im tr by on on pi lo si bu ch ab si th ed ar al sh by on pi .
he th tw ta pl ar al or , an th ma ha hi cu , wh is ba fo lo le me , wh mu co th ma wi ma sm li pa to co ca it sh .
ma to gr ex wi th nu of in va , th pr is di co wi th we - kn cu of di fo cl no - pa le al ( fo re , cl an de es ) .
if th sh of al th pi ar un , on ne en ex fo ea pi in or to ge pr .
ho , if th sh ar re an ca be pr fr ea ot , no - lo le al ha th po to ge to pi no co by th tr se .
su ab wo se ne fo le in co do su as in th ai - se .
on wa to re a hi - va fu co ( wi fe pa ) is th th co of ma no - li .
su mu co of no - li ap to gr no - lo pr to th es , in th se th th va of f ( x ) or f ( x ) ca be st de on tr ex fa fr xi wh at th sa ti al to ca a la nu of va .
we ha al - re di pa an ot ex ( se 12 ) th st su th th le of mo ab fu is mu mo ef wh it is do se , by co pr le co .
wh th re of a co re - qu an ex nu of el , ( e . g . , wi a sh ci ) , th nu of
tr ex re to le th co ma al be im .
ga pr , sv , lo - li mo , gr - ba ma le an gr - ba se - su le al ca al be se as sh ar - tu .
al mu - la ne ne wi ma la ca re de ci - cu , tr de ne ha al be se as so of a ch .
un ve re , em st of fo th de ne ge pe no be , an of wo , th ne ne wi on or tw hi la ( te , 12 ) .
a no ex to th is th co ne ne ar ( le - cu et al . , 12 , le et al . , 12 ) di in th ne se , th ha a sp co - ne fr la to la .
de it im , th to of de ne tr ha be so ne by th re co .
ho , a pr ne me re pr by hi et al .
( 12 ) is ca a re of in in
a co ex fo th di of de ne le is th pr of lo mi or pl in th lo fu .
gr - ba op me - od th st fr ra in co ap to of ge tr in po lo mi or pl .
th pr se pa di fo na ne ( wi fe hi un or wi a bo ) an fo ne wi ma sy ( i . e . , fu - co ne in wh hi un ar ex ) .
th so re - ce in by hi et al .
( 12 ) fo tr de la ne is ba on a gr , la - wi un le ph .
th un le ph pr an in co of th pa wi wh a gr - ba su - vi le ph is in .
th ma id of th un ph is to pa ea fe - fo la wi a fe - ba la th at to re th in of th la fr it ou .
th re cr gu th mo of th in co in th in is pr in th ou of th la .
th re ar is a so - ca de be ne ( db ) .
af th in un tr of ea fe - fo / fe - ba pa , th fe - fo ha of th ne is re us a gr - de ba su me ( ba - pr ) .
th tr st ho gr pr as a pr to br th th pr of tr de ne .
up la of a db ar su to re mo ab co th ex th in ob x , wh lo la ex lo - le fe fr x .
lo la le si co rs , an hi la bu on th to le mo ab co .
th st ha no ye be mu ex in ma le , bu it is at th ba of th gr la - wi co le al fo db .
mo pr , ea la is tr in an un wa so as to ca th ma fe of th di it se as in .
it pr an in re fo it in th ca be us as in fo th ne la .
in a db , ea la is tr as a re bo ma ( te an hi , 12 ) us th co di ( hi , 12 ) ap of th lo - li gr .
th ou of ea la ( i . e . , hi un ) co a fa an di re - re th es ca fo th in of th la .
af th la ha be th in , a na ou la is ad on to of th ne ( e . g . , pr th cl pr ) , an th wh de ne is ne - tu by a gr - ba op of th pr er .
th on di wi an or mu - la ne ne re in th in of th pa , wh is no ra , bu
is pe th un tr of ea la in a se fa .
ex ha be pe on th mn an ot da to tr to un - de wh th de be ne ar do mu be th ei sh ne or de ne wi ra in .
th re ar re an di in ( be et al . , 12 ) .
se co ca be dr fr th ex - im , am wh th fo , of pa in he :
si re ca be ob by tr ea la as an au - as in - st of a re bo ma , su th a ra ge pr - ci ha be di .
te cl er is si im wi su gr la - wi un in ov ei a sh ne or a de ne wi th sa ar bu wi ra in .
in al ca ma po hi la si we tr , an se ba on va er .
wh us a gr la - wi st th is su in of un - vi , th re ar no as go , pr be it is to gr : un fe le ex mo in th st ne fo th pr - ti ta , wh gr su fe le ( gr be it do no ta in ac th th wi be mo la la ) ex le in th ne , wh pr sc ef to im by ad la .
th gr la - wi un st he ge mo be -
ca it he th su op to ge st ne a be so .
12 ex wi vi pa re
on es qu wh de a le ar is ho to re in - va .
wh in pr ar cr to an le ta , it is pa ap in vi pa re .
in th se we co se ex in ha re an ob re to il th re ad an di of ke me , sh ar , an de ar .
12 re in
th ex of gu 12 sh th th ma co al tr ve of a ch im ha hi cu .
be th ma is hi va , a cl th is in to tr ( i . e . , th pr a co ou wh th in mo on th ma , bu ch wh th in mo to an cl ma ) ne to co a hi va fu .
as we sh in th pr se , te - ba me ar in at re hi - va fu .
th nu of su va ma in ex wi th di of th ma wh th in de co .
th di is th nu of di al wh sa wi a ca ca va .
we wi no de tw se of re wi vi pa re .
th rs pa is a su of re ob wi sh an de ar on th mn
da , wh co is ha di .
th se pa an re of ex wi th no da , wh co ob fr ve di ge ca , pl on un or cl ba .
fo vi pa re , ty - 12 ar ha tr ha th wi va of ap in pi im th re fr va in po , il - na , an cl , un an im la nu of te ( e . g . , su ve ) ar us .
ad - ho pr an fe ex ca , of co , be us to mi th pr , bu at th ex of hu la .
he , we wi co on me th de wi ra pi da an th in fe ex as pa of th le pr .
12 co ne
co ne ar mu - la ar in wh th su la ar de - si to le pr hi - le fe , un th la la wh re ca .
al th la ar tr si to mi an ov lo fu - ti .
un wi mo ot mo of cl an pa re , th is no di fe ex an cl in a co ne .
al th la ar si in na an tr fr da in an in fa .
th ba mo of a co ne is co of a fe de la fo by a fe po la .
a ty co ne is co of on , tw or th su de / po mo in se , fo by a cl mo .
th in st ( an ou st ) of ea la ca be se as a se of tw - di re ar ca fe ma .
at la i , th va ci pr by th j - th fe de la at po ( x , y ) in th j - th fe ma is co by ap a se of co ke wi to fe ma in th pr la ( wi in i 12 ) , an pa th re th a hy ta
ci = ta bi +x
wh pi an qi ar th wi an he of th co ke .
th co ke pa wi an th bi bi ar su to le .
a fe de la ca be se as a ba of co lt fo by a po - wi no - li .
ea lt de a pa fe at ev lo on th in .
he sp tr th in of a fe de la wi tr th ou bu le it ot un .
tr in is no bu - in by co - in wi = wi q fo al p , p , q , q , i . e . , th sa pa ar us at di
a fe po la ha th sa nu of fe in th ma as th fe de la th pr it .
ea va in a su ma is th av ( or th ma ) of th va in a lo ne in th co fe ma in th pr la .
th av or ma is ad to a tr bi , mu by a tr co , an th re is pa th a no - li ( e . g . , th ta fu ) .
th wi ar st wi ov .
th th ma of a fe
fi 12 : th ar of th co ne us fo th no ex .
th in is an im pa , th sy ex 12 fe ma of si 12 12 , 12 ma of 12 12 , 12 ma of 12 12 , 12 ma of 12 12 , an 12 di fe ve .
th fe ve is th tr in a 12 - di ve in th la la to co th di wi ta ve .
po la ar le th th re of th ma in th pr la .
th ro of th po la is bu a re th is in to sm va of th po of fe in th in .
al la of fe de an fe po ca ex fe fr in la re el , wi in ro to ir va of th in .
th la mo of a co ne is ge a on - or tw - la ne ne .
tr a co ne ca be pe wi st ( on - li ) gr de , co th gr wi a va of th ba - pr me .
wh co ne ar de ( ge 12 to 12 la of no - li fu ) , th do no se to su fr th co pr th pl de fu - co ne ne .
wh th is no de ex fo th , we su th th ph is li to th he co pa , as we as to th as of
co ne ar be us co in se wi - de sy - te fo re ba ch ( le et al . , 12 ) , re ha fo ta - pc , an fo de fa , pe , an ob in vi in re ti .
12 th le fr mn
mn is a da of ha di wi 12 , 12 tr sa an 12 , 12 te sa .
di im ha be si - no so as to t wi a 12 12 pi wi , an ce by ce of ma in a 12 12 el .
wi th pr , th po of th ch va sl fr on sa to an .
nu au ha re re on mn , al pr co am me .
a sm su of re re is li in ta 12
no al go re on mn ar li in th ta .
in pa , re ob wi de im or wi
ha - de fe ex we le ou .
re ar re wi th co ne ar : le - 12 , le - 12 , an th su co ne of ( si et al . , 12 ) .
th in el is a 12 12 pi ma in wh th 12 12 im ar ce .
in le - 12 ( le et al . , 12 ) , th rs fe de la pr 12 fe ma of si 12 12 us 12 12 co ke .
th rs fe po la pr 12 12 12 fe ma th a 12 12 su ra an 12 12 re el .
th se fe de la pr 12 fe ma of si 12 12 us 12 12 co ke , an is fo by a po la wi 12 12 su .
th ne la pr 12 fe ma of si 12 12 us 12 12 co ke .
th la la pr 12 fe ma ( on pe ou ca ) .
le - 12 ha a ve si ar , bu th nu of fe ma at ea le ar mu la : 12 fe ma in th rs la , 12 in th th la , an 12 fe ma in th pe
th co ne in ( si et al . , 12 ) is so si to th or on in ( le et al . , 12 ) in th th is no se co an su la .
ea la co a co wi a su re ( th is no fe po op ) .
th si co ne ha 12 fe at th rs la , wi 12 by 12 ke an 12 by 12 su , 12 fe at th se la , al wi 12 by 12 ke an 12 by 12 su , 12 fe at th th la wi 12 by 12 ke , an 12 ou un .
th mn sa ar hi va be of wr st , bu ha li va du to po an sc .
he , it is a da th is pa fa fo te - ba me .
ye , th er ra yi by su ve ma wi ga ke ( 12 er ) is on ma be th th of a co sm ne ne wi a si hi la of 12 hi un ( 12 as re by ( si et al . , 12 ) ) , an si to th re ob wi a 12 - la ne ne as re in ( hi et al . , 12 ) ( 12 er ) .
th be re on th or mn se wi a kn fr me wa re in ( hi et al . , 12 ) ( 12 er ) , us a de be ne kn - fr me , we me a me th ha no pr kn of th pi na of th si .
th me wo pr ex th sa re if th in pi we sc wi a xe pe .
co ne us th pi na of th da , an th in of ca - go to sm ge di .
it is a br ( lo co ) pr , wh ca be sp co ( wi a sh pi of co ) .
ye it br ab a co re of th en of fu th ca be le .
th be co ne on th un mn se is le - 12 , wh yi a re 12 .
as wi hi re , th re wa ob by in th lt in th rs la us - in an un al , pr to tr wi ba - pr ( ra et al . , 12 ) .
th sa le - 12 tr pu su fr ra in yi 12 er .
a sm co ne , le - 12 yi 12 .
th sa ne wa re to yi 12 in ( le et al . , 12 ) wi a sm nu of tr
wh th tr se is au wi el di ve of th tr sa , th te er ra ( on th or , no - di te se ) dr si .
a co 12 - la ne ne wi 12 hi un yi 12 er ( si
12 - la nn , 12 hi .
un 12 - la nn , 12 un sv , ga ke un st rb + ba co ne le - 12 co ne le - 12 co .
le - 12 + un .
le tr se au wi af di 12 - la nn , 12 hi .
un vi sv , de .
12 po tr se au wi el di 12 - la nn , 12 hi .
un sv ga ke .
+ on - li tr sh co fe + el k - nn co .
le - 12 co .
le - 12 + un .
le
si et al .
12 hi et al .
12 co et al .
12 hi et al
ra et al .
12 ra et al .
12 ra et al
si et al .
12 de et al .
12 si et al
si et al .
12 th vo , ch 12 be et al .
12 si et al .
12 ra et al .
12 ra et al
ta 12 : te er ra of va le mo on th mn da .
ma re ob wi de im or ha - de fe ex we le
et al . , 12 ) .
wh sv sl ou 12 - la ne ne on th un se , th ad al bu di on th di se .
in th vo , lo et al .
re 12 er wi a ga sv an a sa se pr .
th nu of su ve in th re sv is co la th 12
co ne ap to th el di se ac be 12 an 12 er , de on th ar , th lo fu , an th nu of tr ep .
si et al .
( 12 ) re 12 wi a su co ne .
ra et al .
( 12 ) re 12 us le - 12 wi ra in , an 12 us le - 12 wi un pr - tr of th rs la .
th is th be er ra ev re on th or mn te se .
he a de ne , wi sm do of pr kn em in th ar - te , co wi a le al th ca de wi mi of ex , go a lo wa to im pe .
no on do de ne yi lo er ra , th ar fa to ru an fa to tr on la da th th be
fi 12 : th 12 te ob in th no - un no se .
th te ob ar un by th tr sy .
12 th le fr no
wh mn is a us be , it im ar si en to al a gl te ma sc to pe we .
na im of 12 ob wi ba - gr cl ar co mo ch .
no ( le et al . , 12 ) is a pu av da of ob im fr 12 ge ca .
it co im - ag of 12 di to , wi 12 to in ea of th 12 ge ca : fo - le an , hu gu , ai , tr , an ca .
th 12 ob ar sp in a tr se wi 12 ob , an a te se wi th re 12 ob ( se ex in fi 12 ) .
ea ob is ca by a st ca pa in 12 di vi ( 12 el , 12 az ) un 12 di il .
tw da de fr no ar us .
th rs da , ca th no - un se , ar im of a si ob wi a no si pl at th ce of im wi un ba .
th tr se ha 12 , 12 st im pa of si 12 , an an 12 , 12 fo te ( fr di ob in ) .
th se se , th ji - cl se , co ob wi ra pe
po , sc , in - pl ro , br , an co .
th ob ar pl on hi cl ba an ot no ob pl on th pe .
a 12 - th ca of im is in : ba im co no ob .
so ex im of th se ar sh in gu 12
ea im in th ji - cl se is ra pe so th th ob ar at di po ( ( - 12 , +1 ) pi ho an ve ) , sc ( ra in ( 12 , 12 ) ) , im - pl an ( ( 12 , 12 ) ) , br ( ( - 12 , 12 ) sh of gr sc ) , an co ( ( 12 , 12 ) ga ) .
th ce ob co be oc by th ra pl di .
to ge th tr se , ea im wa pe wi 12 di co of th ab pa , wh ma up 12 , 12 im pa of si 12
th te se ha 12 dr of pe pe im , an co 12 , 12 pa .
in th no da , th on us an re cl is th sh of th ob , wh al th ot pa th af th ap ar su to va , or ar de to co no us cl .
pa th ar su to va ar : vi an ( po ) , li co .
po cl wh im wa el - na in : co ( al im ar gr ) , an ob te .
fo sp ob re ta , th co an te in ma be he , bu fo ge re ta th co an te in ar di ra th us cl .
by pr na va an el ir cl an sy - at bi , no ca se as a be da in wh no hi re th wo un ad so me ov ot ca be us .
a si - la ne du le - 12 , sh in gu 12 , wa us in th ex wi th no da re he .
th ar is es id to th of le - 12 an le - 12 , ex of th si of th fe ma .
th in is a pa of 12 gr sc im .
th rs fe de la us tw 12 co ke to ge 12 fe ma of si 12 12
th rs 12 ma ta in fr th le im , th ne tw fr th ri im , an th la 12 fr bo .
th ar 12 tr pa in th la .
th rs fe po la us a 12 su , to pr 12 fe ma of si 12 12
th se fe de la us 12 co ke of si 12 to ou 12 fe ma of si 12 12
ea ma ta in fr 12 mo ma an 12 bi ma , ea wi a di co , as sh in gu 12
th co is us to co fe fr th st im pa .
th la co 12 , 12 tr pa .
th ne po la us a 12 su wh ou 12 fe ma of si 12 12
th ne la ha 12 12 co ke to pr 12 fe ma of si 12 12 , an th la la ha 12 un .
in th ex , we al re re us a hy me , wh co in tr th co ne in th co wa , ch of th la la , an tr a ga ke sv on th ou of th pe la .
ma of th re in th se we pr re in ( hu an le , 12 ) .
12 re on th no - un se
ta 12 sh th re on th sm no da wi un ba .
th da si a sc in wh ob ca be pe se fr th ba , an is th ra un .
fr of s . v .
12 12 12
st si =
12 - 12
ta 12 : te er ra an tr / te ti on th no - un da of di me .
th ti is no to hy 12 si cp .
th co ne ha mu re wi di tr pa du to
th sv is co of ve bi sv th ar tr to cl on ob ca ag al ot ca .
th co ne tr on th se ha a sm pe la wi 12 ou .
th in fe to th sv of th hy sy ar ac 12 - di ve .
th ti gu in ta 12 re th cp ti on a ct 12 cp .
th re of th co ne tr af 12 , 12 , 12 pa ar li in th ta .
th ne is sl ov - tr wi mo th 12 pa ( no re wa us in th ex ) .
th sv in th hy sy is tr ov th fe ex fr th ne tr wi 12 pa .
th im of th co is ma ov th co ne al .
de th re si of th ta ( no po va , un ba - gr , on 12 ty of il ) , th sv pe ra po .
in , it re a ve la am of cp ti fo tr an te .
th co ne re th sa er ra as th sv wi 12 ti le tr ti .
fu tr ha th er ra .
it is in th de it de ar , it no - co lo , th to ab of ex re , an a la of ti ge - al bo , th co ne is bo be an fa th an sv .
12 re on th ji - cl se
th re on th se ar sh in ta 12
to cl th 12 ca , 12 bi ( on vs .
ot ) sv su - cl ar tr in , ea wi th fu se of 12 , 12 sa .
th tr sa ar ra 12 12 pi im pa tu in a 12 , 12 - di in ve , wi va be 12 to 12
sv ha re fe fr pa to tu pr to le .
in th ca of ga ke , on ca ch ( ga ke si ) an c ( pe co ) th yi be re by gr tu .
a ra di te er ra of 12 is ob on th se , as sh in th rs co of ta 12
th tr ti de
12 12 12 12
st si =
12 - 12
ta 12 : te er ra an tr / te ti on th ji - cl da of di me .
th ti is no to hy 12 si cp .
th co ne ha mu re wi di tr pa du to it it
he on th va of fo ga ke sv .
th ex ar ru on a 12 - cp ( 12 ) cl , an th ti in is no in a hy 12 si cp to ma th me me .
fo th co ne le - 12 , we li re af di nu of pa ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) an th ti in .
th te er ra at ou at 12 af ab 12 pa .
no si ov - tr wa ob , an no ea st wa pe .
on pa co th tr pr mu be he ch - se : th gl st si of th st gr pr .
be re ar ob by ad a sc in wh th st si is pr de .
a fu pr of on da sa th th ne re ab 12 mi - li mu - ad op .
pa th co ne is re si si mu co ca be pe si , an ea co ca be pe in on su - re of th la .
th co ne ar co ve ef .
th tr ti sc su wi da si in pr , an th te ca be do in re - ti at a ra of a fe fr pe
th th co sh th re of a hy sy in wh th la la of th co ne wa re by a ga sv af tr .
th tr an te fe ar ex wi th co ne tr af 12 pa .
th pe la of th ne ha 12 ou , th th fe ar 12 - di .
th sv ap on fe ex fr th co ne yi an er ra of 12 , a si im ov ei me al .
by in - ra a le fe ex in th ke fu , th sv wa in ab to le bo th ab to us lo - le sp lo fe an at th sa ti ke al th ad of a la ma cl .
th po pe of sv wi ga ke on ra pi is no un - pe .
as we po ou in pr se , a ga ke sv me co - pu ma sc ( ba on eu di ) be th in pa an
te fr th tr se .
th gl te ma is ve se to va - at in re , po , an il .
mo im , mo of th pi in a no im ar ac on th ba cl , ra th on th ob to be re .
he th te ma sc ar do by ir va - ti of th ba .
th po to a cr de of st ke me : th in to se re in fe , an ig ir on .
sv ha pr ad pr by ge bo , ca co - tr th ma ma , a co lo fu , an un ap pr .
by co , co ne ha no ge bo ( be th mo ge vc bo ) , no ex re , a hi no - co lo fu - ti , an no cl to un .
ye th ex re wi no sh th co ne ar mo ac th ga sv by a fa of 12 , fa to tr by a la fa ( 12 to 12 ) , an fa to ru by a fa of 12
th wo wa mo by ou re fo le al th co ad - dr th ch of ai , wh in st sc , co sc - bi an hu - la sc .
be th se of ta in in ai is wi di , en a se so fo ea ta se im .
we ha ex ma li of ke ma an ot sh ar .
su ar ar in fo re co , hi - va fu , wh we be ar ne fo ai - re ta su as in pe .
on li wa ba on th we - kn de - br tr in ci de - si ha ( 12 ) .
th su th ma fu ca be mu mo ef re wi de ar , of wi a mo nu of le ( e . g . , lo - ar in th nu of in ) .
th se li re ma co of th cu of di - si .
it ap to lo ke su as th ga ke , in wh k ( x , xi ) ca be se as a te ma .
it te us th ar re on lo ke ca be ve in at re fu th ha ma va , i . e . , fu - ti th ar no gl sm ( bu ma st be lo sm ) .
in , it co be ar th ke ma ar li mo th so - up te ma .
a th li pe to th co co of le .
in th , th co - ve op as wi ke ma le yi ef op an re re .
un , mo cu al ar ( at le ) qu in th nu of ex .
th es pr th ap to ve la - sc da fo wh li - or su - ti al ar re ( pa fo on - li le ) .
th pr is so mi by re pr wi on - li al fo ke ma ( e . g . , se ( bo et al . , 12 ) ) , bu th re th qu of th in in th nu of su ve as th nu of ex
a fo an mo se li , wh fo fr th rs ( sh ) an se ( lo ) pe to in in re .
sh ar an lo es ar si to in ( in te of re nu of ex an
ad co ) to re ma ab fu of in .
ul , th ma th un if ou go is to le th ai - se .
we do no me to su th ke ma ha no pl in ai .
fo ex , ou re su th co - bi a de ar wi a ke ma th ta th hi - le le re as in ca be qu po .
le th tr fr pi to hi - le fe be ap an sv is in fa a wa to le th ke .
we do su th ma le re ai at th ai pr sh in - ga ar th do no ha th re li of ke ma , an de ar ar by de no sh an us no lo as we .
un re , ma be th tr de ar wa to di an op pr .
ho , at le tw di ap ha wo we in tr su ar : si gr de ap to co ne - wo ( le et al . , 12 , le et al . , 12 ) ( fo si an im ) , an mo re , la - by - la un le fo by gr de ( hi et al . , 12 , be et al . , 12 , ra et al . , 12 ) .
re on de ar is in it in , an be le al fo de ar re to be di - co .
ta a la pe on th ob of di le pr th ca le to ai ha be a gu pe of th wo .
we ho to ha he in ot to se a so to th pr of sc ma le to ai .
we th ge hi fo ou nu di wi hi an th ne co - pu an ad pe pr of th ca in of ad re - se fo ma th po .
we wi to th fu - ji hu fo co mu of th ex in se 12 , an ha - pe gr an er co an th co - or fo le us us th pa im of sv .
we th le bo fo hi pa an fo he co .
we th su ch , ol de , ra ha , hu la , ni le ro , ma ra , fo he us to ma pr to th id pr he .
th pr wa su by ns gr no .
12 an no .
12 , by ns , th ca re ch , an th mi nc .
