rec , man app for res bol mac ( rbm ) hav bee de - vel for a lar var of lea pro - lem .
how , rbm are usu use as fea ext for ano lea al - gor or to pro a goo ini for dee fee - for neu net cla - sie , and are not con as a sta - alo sol to cla pro .
in thi pap , we arg tha rbm pro a sel - con fra for der com - pet non - lin cla .
we pre an eva of die lea alg for rbm whi aim at int a dis - nat com to rbm tra and im - pro the per as cla .
thi app is sim in tha rbm are use dir to bui a cla , rat tha as a ste sto .
fin , we dem how dis rbm can als be suc emp in a sem - sup set .
res bol mac ( rbm ) ( smo , 123 ) are gen mod bas on lat ( usu bin ) var to mod an inp dis , and hav see the app gro to a lar var of pro and set in the pas few yea .
fro bin inp , the hav bee ext to mod var - iou typ of inp dis ( wel et al . , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) .
con ver of rbm hav als bee dev for col lte ( sal et al . , 123 ) and to mod mot cap - tur dat ( tay et al . , 123 ) and vid seq ( sut & hin , 123 ) .
rbm hav bee par suc in cla - tio pro eit as fea ext for tex and
app in pro of the 123 th int con - enc on mac lea , hel , fin , 123
cop - rig 123 by the aut ( s ) / own ( s ) .
ima dat ( geh et al . , 123 ) or as a goo ini tra pha for dee neu net cla ( hin - ton , 123 ) .
how , in bot cas , the rbm are mer the rst ste of ano lea alg , ei - the pro a pre of the dat or an ini - iza for the par of a neu net .
whe tra in an uns fas , rbm pro no gua tha the fea imp by the hid - den lay wil ult be use for the sup tas tha nee to be sol .
mor pra , mod sel can als bec pro , as we nee to exp joi the spa of hyp - par of bot the rbm ( siz of the hid lay , lea rat , num - ber of tra ite ) and the sup lea alg tha is fed the lea fea .
in par - ula , hav two sep lea pha ( fea ex - tra , fol by cla tra ) can be pro - lem in an onl lea set .
in thi pap , we arg tha rbm can be use suc - ces as sta - alo non - lin cla alo - sid oth sta cla lik neu net and sup vec mac , and not onl as fea - tur ext .
we inv tra obj for rbm tha are mor app for tra cla - sie tha the com gen obj .
we des dis res bol ma - chi ( drb ) , i . e .
rbm tha are tra mor spe to be goo cla mod , and hy - bri dis res bol mac ( hdr ) whi exp the spa bet dis - ina and gen lea and can com the adv .
we als dem tha rbm can be suc ada to the com sem - sup lea set ( cha et al . , 123 ) for cla - tio pro .
fin , the alg inv in thi pap are wel sui for onl lea on lar
res bol mac
res bol mac are und gen - ati mod tha use a lay of hid var to mod a dis ove vis var .
tho the are mos oft tra to onl mod the inp
cla usi dis res bol mac
of a cla tas , the can als mod the joi dis of the inp and ass tar cla ( e . g .
in the las lay of a dee bel net in hin - ton et al .
( 123 ) ) .
in thi sec , we wil foc on suc joi mod .
we ass giv a tra set dtr = ( ( xi , yi ) ) , com for the i - th exa an inp vec xi and a tar cla yi ( 123 , .
to tra a gen mod on suc dat we con min of the
log p ( yi , xi ) .
an rbm wit n hid uni is a par mod of the joi dis bet a lay of hid var ( ref to as neu or fea ) h = ( h12 , .
, hn ) and the obs var mad of x = ( x12 , .
, xd ) and y , tha tak the for p ( y , x , h ) ee ( y , x , h )
e ( y , x , h ) = ht wx bt x ct h dt ~ y ht u ~ y
wit par = ( w , b , c , d , u ) and ~ y = i=1 for c cla .
thi mod is ill in fig 123
for now , we con for sim bin inp var , but the mod can be eas gen - ali to non - bin cat , con - val inp ( wel et al . , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) .
it is str to sho tha
p ( x|h ) = y p ( xi = 123 ) = sig ( bi +x y edy +p
j ujy hj
whe sig is the log sig .
equ 123 and 123 ill tha the hid uni are mea to cap pre inf abo the inp vec as wel as the tar cla .
p ( h|y , x ) als has a sim for :
p ( h|y , x ) = y
p ( hj = 123 , x ) = sig ( cj + ujy +x
whe the num of hid var is xed , an rbm can be con a par mod , but whe it is all to var wit the dat , it bec a non - in par , fre and hau - sle ( 123 ) ; le rou and ben ( 123 ) sho tha
fig 123
res bol mac mod the joi dis of inp and tar cla
an rbm wit eno hid uni can rep any dis ove bin vec , and tha add hid - den uni gua tha a bet lik can be ach , unl the gen dis alr equ the tra dis .
in ord to min the neg log - lik ( eq .
123 ) , we wou lik an est of its gra wit res to the mod par .
the exa gra , for any par can be wri as fol :
log p ( yi , xi )
e ( yi , xi , h )
e ( y , x , h )
tho the rst exp is tra , the sec one is not .
for , the exi a goo sto app of thi gra , cal the con div gra ( hin , 123 ) .
thi app - tio rep the exp by a sam gen aft a lim num of gib sam ite , wit the sam ini sta for the vis var ini at the tra sam ( yi , xi ) .
eve whe usi onl one gib sam ite , con div has bee sho to pro onl a sma bia for a lar spe - up in tra tim ( car - per & hin , 123 ) .
onl tra of an rbm thu con in cy - cli thr the tra exa and upd the rbm par acc to alg 123 , whe the lea rat is con by .
com p ( y , x ) is int , but it is pos to com p ( y|x ) , sam fro it , or cho the mos pro cla und thi mod .
as sho in sal et al .
( 123 ) , for rea num of cla c ( ove whi we mus sum ) , thi con dis can be com exa and eci , by wri it as fol :
( cid : 123 ) 123 + ecj +uj ( cid : 123 ) 123 + ecj +uj +p i wji ( cid : 123 ) .
123 123 123 123 cla usi dis res bol mac
alg 123 tra upd for rbm ove ( y , x ) usi con div
app has bee use pre for ne - tun the top rbm of a dee bel net ( hin , 123 ) .
inp : tra pai ( yi , xi ) and lea rat % not : a b mea a is set to val b a p mea a is sam fro p
% pos pha
y12 yi , x12 xi , bh1 sig ( c + w x12 + u ~ y12 ) bh1 sig ( c + w x12 + u ~ y12 )
% neg pha h12 p ( h|y , x12 ) , y12 p ( y|h ) , x12 p ( x|h )
pre the ter cj +p the whe com qn
( cid : 123 ) 123 + ecj +uj +p
i wji and reu for all cla y per to com thi con dis in tim o ( nd + nc ) .
dis res bol
in a cla set , one is ult onl int - est in cor cla , not nec to hav a goo p ( x ) .
bec our mod p ( x ) can be in - app , it can the be adv to opt dir p ( y|x ) ins of p ( y , x ) :
we ref to rbm tra acc to ldi as dis - cri rbm ( drb ) .
sin rbm ( wit eno hid uni ) are uni app for bin inp , it fol als tha drb are uni - ver app of con dis wit a drb can be tra by con div , as has bee don in con rbm ( tay et al . , 123 ) , but sin p ( y|x ) can be com exa , we can com the exa gra :
whe oyj ( x ) = cj +p
k wjk + ujy .
thi gra can be com eci and the use in a sto - tic gra des opt .
thi dis
hyb dis res
the adv bro by dis tra usu - all dep on the amo of ava tra dat .
sma tra set ten to fav gen lea - ing and big one fav dis lea ( ng & jor , 123 ) .
how , ins of sol rel - ing on one or the oth per , one can ado a hyb dis / gen app sim by com the res tra cri .
tho thi met can be int as a max lik - lih app for a par gen mod as in las et al .
( 123 ) , it pro use her and els ( bou & tri , 123 ) .
in thi pap , we use the fol cri : lhy ( dtr ) = ldi ( dtr ) + lge ( dtr )
whe the wei of the gen cri can be opt ( e . g . , bas on the val set cla - tio err ) .
her , the gen cri can als be see as a dat - dep reg for a drb .
we wil ref to rbm tra usi the cri of equ - tio 123 as hyb drb ( hdr ) .
to tra an hdr , we can use sto gra des and add for eac exa the gra con - but due to ldi wit tim the sto gra - ent est ass wit lge for tha exa .
sem - sup lea
a fre cla set is whe the are few lab tra dat but man unl exa of inp .
sem - sup lea alg ( cha et al . , 123 ) add thi sit by usi the un - lab dat to int con on the tra mod .
for exa , for pur dis mod , the con are oft imp on the dec sur - fac of the mod .
in the rbm fra , a nat con is to ask tha the mod be a goo gen - ati mod of the unl dat , whi cor to the fol obj :
whe dun = ( ( xi ) ) |du con unl ex - amp of inp .
to tra on thi obj , we can onc aga use a con div app
cla usi dis res bol mac
of the log - lik gra :
e ( yi , xi , h )
e ( y , x , h )
the con div app is sli die her .
the rst ter can be com in tim o ( cn + nd ) , by not tha it is equ to
e ( yi , xi , h )
one cou eit ave the usu rbm gra e ( yi , xi , h ) for eac cla y ( wei by p ( y|x ) ) , or
sam a y fro p ( y|x ) and onl col the gra for tha val of y .
in the sam ver , the onl tra upd for thi obj can be des by rep the sta y12 yi wit y12 p ( y|x ) in alg 123
we use thi ver in our exp .
in ord to per sem - sup lea , we can wei and com the obj of equ 123 wit tho of equ 123 , 123 or 123 lse ( dtr , dun ) = lty ( dtr ) ( 123 ) whe typ ( gen , dis , hyb ) .
onl tra acc to thi obj sim con in app - ing the app upd for eac tra exa , bas on whe it is lab or not .
rel wor
as men ear , rbm ( som als ref to as har ( wel et al . , 123 ) ) hav alr bee use suc in the pas to ext use fea - tur for ano sup lea alg .
one of the mai con of thi pap lie in the dem tha rbm can be use on the own wit rel on ano lea alg , and pro a sel - con fra for der com - in add to ens tha the fea lea by the rbm hid lay are dis - cri , thi app fac mod sel sin the dis pow of the hid lay uni ( or fea ) can be tra dur lea by obs - ing the pro of cla err on a val - tio set .
it als mak it eas to tac onl lea pro rel to app whe lea fea - tur ( hid rep ) and lea to cla are don in two sep pha ( hin et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ) .
geh et al .
( 123 ) ; xin et al .
( 123 ) hav sho tha the fea lea by an rbm tra by ig - nor the lab tar can be use for ret - ing doc or cla ima of obj .
how - eve , in bot the cas , the ext fea wer lin in the inp , wer not tra dis and had to be fed to ano lea alg whi ult per cla .
mcc et al .
( 123 ) pre mul - con lea ( mcl ) 123 for har in ord to int a dis com to har tra , but the lea fea sti had to be fed to ano lea alg - rbm can als pro a goo ini for the pa - ram of neu net cla ( hin , 123 ) , how mod sel iss ari , for ins whe con the app num of lea up - dat and the mag of lea rat of eac tra pha .
it has als bee arg tha the gen - era lea asp of rbm tra was a key ele - men to the suc as goo sta poi for neu net tra ( ben et al . , 123 ) , but the ext to whi the nal sol for the par of the neu net is inu by gen lea is not wel con .
hdr can be see as a way of add thi iss .
fin , tho sem - sup lea was nev rep for rbm bef , dru et al .
tro sem - sup lea in hyb gen - tiv / dis mod usi a sim app to the one pre in sec 123
how , the wor wit log - lin mod , whe the rbm use her can per non - lin cla .
log - lin mod - els dep muc mor on the dis qua of the fea tha are fed as inp , whe an rbm can lea use fea usi the hid var , at the pri of non - con opt .
we pre exp on two cla pro : cha rec and tex cla .
in all ex - per , we per mod sel on a val - tio set bef tes .
for the die rbm mod , mod sel con in ndi goo val for
123 exp wit a ver of mcl for the rbm con in thi pap , how the res did not im - pro on tho of hdr .
123 sel was don wit a gri - lik sea ove ( bet 123 and 123 , on a log sca ) , n ( 123 to 123 ) , for hdr ( 123 to 123 , on a log sca ) and for sem - sup lea ( 123 , 123 or 123 ) .
in gen , big val - ues of n wer fou to be mor app wit mor gen lea .
if no loc min was app , the
cla usi dis res bol mac
the lea rat , the siz of the hid lay n and goo wei for the die typ of lea ( gen - ati and sem - sup wei ) .
als , the num of ite ove the tra set was det usi ear sto acc to the val set cla - cat err , wit a loo ahe of 123 ite .
cha rec
we eva the die rbm mod on the pro - lem of cla ima of dig .
the ima wer tak fro the mni dat , whe we sep the ori tra set int tra and val set of 123 and 123 exa and use the sta - dar tes set of 123 exa .
the res are giv in tab 123
the ord rbm mod is tra gen ( to mod ( x , y ) ) , whe rbm is an uns rbm use to ini a one - hid lay sup neu net ( as in ( ben et al . , 123 ) ) .
we giv as a com the res of a gau - sia ker svm and of a reg neu net ( ran - dom ini , one hid lay , hyp tan - gen hid act fun ) .
fir , we obs tha a drb out a gen - tiv rbm .
how , an hdr app abl to mak the bes out of dis and gen lea and out the oth mod .
we als exp wit a spa ver of the hdr mod , sin spa is kno to be a goo cha for fea of ima .
spa rbm wer dev by lee et al .
( 123 ) in the con of dee neu net .
to int spa in the hid lay of an rbm in lee et al .
( 123 ) , aft eac ite thr the who tra set , the bia c in the hid lay are set to a val tha mai the ave of the con exp val of the neu to an arb sma val .
thi pro ten to mak the bia neg and lar .
we fol - low a die app by sim sub a sma con val , con as an hyp - par , fro the bia aft eac upd , whi is mor ap - pro in an onl set or for lar dat .
thi spa ver of hdr out all the oth rbm mod , and yie sig low cla -
gri was ext .
the bia b , c and d wer ini to 123 and the ini val for the ele of the wei mat u and w wer eac tak fro uni sam
inm , m12 , whe m is the max bet the
num of row and col of the mat .
123 cho , giv the sel val for and for the non spa hdr , we per a sec gri - sea ove ( 123 and 123 , on a log sca ) and the hid lay siz , tes big hid lay siz the pre
fig 123
fil lea by the hdr on the mni dat .
the top row sho lte tha act as spa lo - cal str det , and the bot sho lte mor spe to a par sha of dig .
tab 123
com of the cla per on the mni dat .
svm res for mni wer tak fro htt : / / yan . lec . com / exd / mni / .
on thi dat , die of 123 in cla err is sta -
rbm ( = 123 , n = 123 ) drb ( = 123 , n = 123 ) hdr ( = 123 , = 123 , n = 123 ) spa hdr ( ide + n = 123 , = 123 )
sic err the the svm and the sta neu net cla .
the per ach by the spa hdr is par imp whe com - par to rep per for dee bel net - wor ( 123 in hin et al .
( 123 ) ) or of a dee neu net ini usi rbm ( aro 123 in ben et al .
( 123 ) and hin ( 123 ) ) for the mni dat wit 123 tra exa .
the dis pow of the hdr can be bet und by loo a the row of the wei mat w , whi act as lte fea .
fig 123 dis som of the lea lte .
som of the are spa loc str det whi can pos be act for a wid var of dig ima , and oth are muc mor spe to a par sha of dig .
doc cla
we als eva the rbm mod on the pro of cla doc int the cor new - gro top .
we use a ver of the 123 - new dat for whi the tra and tes set con doc col at die tim , a set tha is mor ree of a pra app .
the ori - ina tra set was div int a sma tra
123 dat is ava in mat for her :
cla usi dis res bol mac
set and a val set , wit 123 and 123 exa res .
the tes set con 123 exa .
we use the 123 mos fre wor for the bin inp fea .
the res are giv in fig 123 ( a ) .
we als pro the res of a gau ker svm and of a reg neu net for com .
onc aga , hdr out the oth rbm mod .
how , her the gen tra rbm per bet the the drb .
the hdr als out the svm and neu net cla .
in ord to get a bet und of how the hdr sol thi cla pro , we rst loo at the wei con eac of the cla to the hid neu .
thi cor to the col uy of the wei mat u .
fig 123 ( b ) sho a sim - ila mat m ( u ) for the wei of the die new , whe m ( u ) y12 = sig ( uty ) .
we see tha the hdr doe not use die neu for die new , but sha som of tho neu for new tha are sem rel .
ano int vis of thi cha is giv in fig 123 ( c ) , whe the col of u wer pro on the two pri com .
in bot cas , we see tha the hdr ten to sha neu for sim - lar top , suc as com ( com . * ) , sci ( sci . * ) and pol ( tal . pol . * ) , or sec top suc as spo ( rec . spo . * ) and oth rec act ( rec . aut and rec . mot ) .
tab 123 als giv the set of wor use by the hdr to rec som of the new .
to obt thi tab we pro as fol : for eac new y , we loo at the 123 neu wit the lar wei amo uy , agg ( by sum ) the ass inp - to - hid wei vec , sor the wor in de - cre ord of the ass agg wei and pic the rst wor acc to tha ord .
thi pro att to app the pos con of the wor to the con pro - ity of eac new .
sem - sup lea
we eva our sem - sup lea alg for the hdr on bot the dig rec and doc - ume cla pro .
we als exp wit a ver ( not mni - bi ) of the mni dat pro by lar et al .
bac ima hav bee add to mni dig ima .
thi ver cor to a muc har pro , but it wil hel to ill the adv bro by sem - sup lea in hdr
123 use lib v12 to tra the svm mod
hdr tra on thi dat use tru exp - tia inp uni ( see ( ben et al . , 123 ) ) .
in thi sem - sup set , we red the siz of the lab tra set to 123 exa , and use som of the rem dat to for an unl dat dun .
the val set was als red to 123 lab exa .
mod sel cov all the par of the hdr as wel as the uns - vis obj wei of equ 123
for com - iso pur , we als pro the per of a sta non - par sem - sup lea al - gor bas on fun ind ( ben et al . , 123 ) , whi inc as a par cas or is ver sim to oth non - par sem - sup lea - ing alg suc as zhu et al .
( 123 ) .
we pro res for the use of a gau ker ( np - gau ) and a dat - dep tru gau ker ( np - tru - gau ) use in ben et al .
( 123 ) , whi es - sen out zer for pai of inp tha are not nea nei .
the exp on the mni and mni - bi ( wit bac ima ) dat use 123 unl exa and the exp on 123 - new use 123
the res are giv in tab 123 , whe we obs tha sem - sup lea con - ten imp the per of the hdr .
the use of non - par sem - sup lea alg has bee dem man tim in the pas , but usu so on pro whe the dim of the inp is low or the dat lie on a muc low dim man .
thi is ree in the res on mni for the non - par met - ods .
how , for hig dim dat wit man fac of var , the met can qui sue fro the cur of dim , as arg by ben et al .
( 123 ) .
thi is als ree in the res for the mni - bi dat whi con man fac of var , and for the 123 - new dat whe the inp is ver hig dim .
fin , it is imp to not tha sem - sup lea in hdr pro in an onl fas and hen cou sca to ver lar dat , unl mor sta non - par met .
rel wit fee - for neu
the are sev sim bet dis rbm and neu net .
in par , the com - put of p ( y|x ) cou be imp by a sin lay neu net wit sof and sof act -
123 = 123 for mni and 123 - new and = 123
for mni - bi was fou to per bes .
cla usi dis res bol mac
rbm ( = 123 , n = 123 ) drb ( = 123 , n = 123 ) hdr ( = 123 , = 123 , n = 123 )
( a ) cla per
( b ) sim mat
( c ) pca emb
fig 123
exp on 123 - new dat .
( top lef ) cla per for the die mod .
the err die bet hdr and oth mod is sta sig .
( bot lef ) sim mat of the new wei vec uy .
( rig ) two dim pca emb of the new wei .
tab 123
mos inu wor in the hdr for pre som of the doc cla
alt . ath bib , ath , ben , ath , rel
sel , con , opp , wee , am , obo ste , bon , nsa , esc , ham
tab 123
com of the cla err in sem - sup lea set .
the err in bol are sta - tic sig bet .
sem - sup hdr 123
vat fun in its hid and out lay re - spe , wit a spe str in the out and hid wei whe the val of the out wei is xed and man of the hid lay wei are sha .
the adv of wor in the fra of rbm is tha it pro a nat way to int gen - ati lea , whi we use her to der a sem - sup lea alg .
as men ear , a for of gen lea can be int in sta -
ti , ftp , win , gif , ima , pix car , for , aut , sho , toy , roa rea , han , rea , gun , rkb
dar neu net sim by usi rbm to ini - tia the hid lay wei .
how the ext to whi the nal sol for the par of the neu net is inu by gen lea is not wel con .
thi mig exp the sup per obt by a hdr com to a sin hid lay neu net ini wit an rbm ( rbm in the tab ) .
con and fut wor
we arg tha rbm can and sho be use as sta - alo non - lin cla alo oth sta - dar and mor pop cla , ins of mer bei con as sim fea ext .
we eva - uat die tra obj tha are mor ap - pro to tra an rbm in a cla set .
the dis ver of rbm int the pro of dis fea of inp wit the use in cla , wit rel on a sep cla -
cla usi dis res bol mac
thi ins tha the lea fea are dis - cri and fac mod sel .
we als pre a nov but str sem - sup lea alg for rbm and dem its use for com or hig dim dat .
for fut wor , we wou lik to inv the use of dis ver of rbm in mor cha - ing set suc as in mul - tas or str out - put pro .
the ana of the tar wei for the 123 - new dat see to ind tha rbm wou be goo at cap the con sta - tis rel bet mul tas or in the com in a com tar spa .
exa com - put of the con dis for the tar - get is not tra any , but the exi pro - ing tec suc as mea - eld app tha cou est tha dis .
mor , in the 123 - new exp , we onl use 123 wor in inp bec gen tra usi alg 123 doe not exp the spa of the inp , unl an svm or a drb ( sin in tha cas the spa of the inp mak the dis gra spa too ) .
mot by thi obs , we int to exp way to int gen lea in rbm and hdr whi wou be les com exp - siv whe the inp vec are lar but spa .
we tha dum erh for dis abo spa rbm and ano rev for hel com .
