we pre in thi pap a nov app for tra det aut - enc .
we sho tha by add a wel cho pen ter to the cla rec cos fun - tio , we can ach res tha equ or sur - pas tho att by oth reg aut - enc as wel as den aut - enc on a ran of dat .
thi pen ter cor to the fro nor of the jac mat of the enc act wit res to the inp .
we sho tha thi pen ter res in a loc spa con whi in tur yie rob fea - tur on the act lay .
fur , we sho how thi pen ter is rel to bot reg aut - enc and den aut - enc and how it can be see as a lin bet det and non - det aut - enc .
we nd emp tha thi pen hel to car a rep tha bet cap the loc dir of var - tio dic by the dat , cor to a low - dim non - lin man , whi bei mor inv to the vas maj of dir ort to the man .
fi - nal , we sho tha by usi the lea fea - tur to ini a mlp , we ach sta of the art cla err on a ran of dat , sur oth met of pre -
app in pro of the 123 th int con - fer on mac lea , bel , wa , usa , 123
cop 123 by the aut ( s ) / own ( s ) .
a rec top of int in the mac lea com is the dev of alg for un - sup lea of a use rep .
thi aut dis and ext of fea is oft use in bui a dee hie of fea , wit the con of sup , sem - sup , or uns - per mod .
see ben ( 123 ) for a rec rev of dee lea alg .
mos of the met exp as bas bui blo alg for lea one lev of fea ext : the rep - tat lea at one lev is use as inp for lea the nex lev , etc .
the obj is tha the rep - res bec bet as dep is inc , but wha den a goo rep ? it is fai wel un - der wha pca or ica do , but muc rem to be don to und the cha and the - ica adv of the rep lea by a re - str bol mac ( hin et al . , 123 ) , an aut - enc ( ben et al . , 123 ) , spa cod ( ol - sha and fie , 123 kav et al . , 123 ) , or sem - sup emb ( wes et al . , 123 ) .
all of the pro a non - lin rep whi , un - lik tha of pca or ica , can be sta ( com ) to yie dee lev of rep .
it has als bee obs emp ( lee et al . , 123 ) tha the dee lev oft cap mor abs fea .
a sim - ple app ( hin et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ) , als use her , to emp ver tha the lea rep are use , is to use the to ini a cla ( suc as a mul - lay neu net ) , and mea cla err .
man exp sho tha dee mod can thu yie low cla err ( ben et al . , 123 jar et al . , 123 vin
123 nip wor on dee lea and uns -
per fea lea
et al . , 123 ) .
con .
wha pri sho gui the lea of suc int rep ? the sho cap as muc as pos of the inf in eac giv exa , whe tha exa is lik und the und gen dis .
tha is wha aut - enc ( vin et al . , 123 ) and spa cod aim to ach whe min rec - tio err .
we wou als lik the rep to be use in cha the inp dis , and tha is wha is ach by dir opt a gen mod lik ( suc as rbm ) .
thi pap , we int a pen ter tha cou be add in eit of the abo con , whi enc - age the int rep to be rob to sma cha of the inp aro the tra exa - ple .
we sho thr com exp on man ben dat tha thi cha is use to lea rep tha hel tra bet - ter cla .
we hyp tha whe the pro - pos pen ter enc the lea fea to be loc inv wit any pre for par - ula dir , whe it is com wit a rec - tio err or lik cri we obt inv in the dir tha mak sen in the con of the giv tra dat , i . e . , the var tha are pre in the dat sho als be cap in the lea rep - res , but the oth dir may be con in the lea rep .
how to ext rob fea
to enc rob of the rep f ( x ) ob - tai for a tra inp x we pro to pen its sen to tha inp , mea as the fro nor of the jac jf ( x ) of the non - lin map - pin .
for , if inp x ird is map by enc - ing fun f to hid rep h ird , thi sen pen ter is the sum of squ of all par der of the ext fea wit res to inp dim :
f enc the map to the fea - tur spa to be con in the nei of the tra dat .
thi geo per , whi giv its nam to our alg , wil be fur ela on , in sec 123 , bas on exp evi .
the atn ind by hav low val rst der - tiv wil imp an inv or rob of the rep - res for sma var of the inp .
thu in thi stu , ter lik inv , ( in - ) sen , ro -
bus , atn and con all poi to the sam whi suc a jac ter alo wou enc map to a use con rep , cou in aut - enc tra by the nee for the lea rep to all a goo rec - str of the inp
aut - enc var
in its sim for , an aut - enc ( ae ) is com - pos of two par , an enc and a dec .
it was int in the lat 123 ( rum et al . , 123 bal and hor , 123 ) as a tec for dim - sio red , whe the out of the enc rep the red rep and whe the dec is tun to rec the ini inp fro the enc rep thr the min of a cos fun .
mor spe whe the en - cod act fun are lin and the num - ber of hid uni is inf to the inp dim - sio ( hen for a bot ) , it has bee sho tha the lea par of the enc are a sub - spa of the pri com of the inp spa ( bal and hor , 123 ) .
wit the use of non - lin act fun an ae can how be exp to lea mor use fea - det tha wha can be obt wit a sim pca ( jap et al . , 123 ) .
mor , con to the cla use as dim - red tec , in the mod ins aut - enc are oft emp in a so - cal ove - com set to ext a num of fea - tur lar tha the inp dim , yie a ric hig - dim rep .
in thi set , usi som for of reg bec ess to avo uni sol whe the aut - enc cou per rec the inp wit nee to ex - tra any use fea .
thi sec for den the aut - enc var con in thi stu .
bas aut - enc ( ae ) .
the enc is a fun - tio f tha map an inp x ird to hid rep - tat h ( x ) ird .
it has the for
h = f ( x ) = sf ( w x + bh ) ,
whe sf is a non act fun , typ - 123 .
the enc is cal a log sig ( z ) = 123 par by a dh dx wei mat w , and a 123 als the now com add con of enc and dec sha the sam ( tra ) wei , whi pre a mer glo con sca - ing in the enc and exp in the dec .
123 lik - rel cri wou als sim pre -
ven a col of the rep .
bia vec bh ird .
the dec fun g map hid rep h bac to a rec y :
y = g ( h ) = sg ( w ( cid : 123 ) h + by ) ,
whe sg is the dec act fun , typ eit the ide ( yie lin rec ) or a sig .
the dec par are a bia vec by ird , and mat w ( cid : 123 ) .
in thi pap we onl exp the tie wei cas , in whi w ( cid : 123 ) = w t .
aut - enc tra con in ndi par = ( w , bh , by ) tha min the rec err on a tra set of exa dn , whi cor to min the fol obj fun :
jae ( ) = ( cid : 123 )
whe l is the rec err .
typ cho inc the squ err l ( x , y ) = ( cid : 123 ) x y ( cid : 123 ) 123 use in cas of lin rec and the cro - ent los whe sg is the sig ( and inp are in ( 123 , 123 ) ) :
l ( x , y ) = ( cid : 123 ) dx
i=1 xi log ( yi ) + ( 123 xi ) log ( 123 yi ) .
reg aut - enc ( ae+ ) .
the sim - ple for of reg is wei - dec whi fa - vor sma wei by opt ins the fol
whe the hyp - par con the str of not tha rat tha hav a pri on wha the wei sho be , it is pos to hav a pri on wha the hid uni act sho be .
fro thi vie - poi , sev tec hav bee dev to en - cou spa of the rep ( kav et al . , 123 lee et al . , 123 ) .
den aut - enc ( dae ) .
a suc al - ter for of reg is obt thr the tec of den aut - enc ( dae ) put for by vin et al .
( 123 ) , whe one sim cor inp x bef sen it thr the aut - enc , tha is tra to rec the cle ver - sio ( i . e .
to den ) .
thi yie the fol obj -
jda ( ) = ( cid : 123 )
whe the exp is ove cor ver x of exa x obt fro a cor pro q ( x|x ) .
thi obj is opt by sto gra de - sce ( sam cor exa ) .
typ , we con cor suc as add iso gau noi : x = x + , n ( 123 , 123 ) and a bin mas noi , whe a fra of inp com ( ran cho ) hav the val set to 123
the deg of the cor ( or ) con the deg of reg .
con aut - enc ( cae )
fro the mot of rob to sma per - tio aro the tra poi , as dis in sec - tio 123 , we pro an alt reg tha fav map tha are mor str con at the tra sam ( see sec 123 for a lon dis ) .
the con aut - enc ( cae ) is obt wit the reg ter of eq .
123 yie
jca ( ) = ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) l ( x , g ( f ( x ) ) ) + ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
rel wit wei dec .
it is eas to see tha the squ fro nor of the jac cor - res to a l12 wei dec in the cas of a lin enc ( i . e .
whe sf is the ide fun ) .
in thi spe cas jca and jae are ide .
not tha in the lin cas , kee wei sma is the onl way to hav a con .
but wit a sig non - lin , con and rob can als be ach by dri the hid uni to the sat rel wit spa aut - enc .
aut - enc var tha enc spa rep aim at hav , for eac exa , a maj of the com of the rep clo to zer .
for the fea to be clo to zer , the mus hav bee com in the lef sat par of the sig non - lin , whi is alm at , wit a tin rst der - tiv .
thi yie a cor sma ent in the jac jf ( x ) .
thu , spa aut - enc tha out - put man clo - to - zer fea , are lik to cor - spo to a hig con map , eve tho con or rob are not exp enc thr the lea cri .
rel wit den aut - enc .
ro - bus to inp per was als one of the mot of the den aut - enc , as sta in
vin et al .
( 123 ) .
the cae and the dae die how in the fol way : cae exp enc rob of rep - tio f ( x ) , whe dae enc rob of re - con ( g f ) ( x ) ( whi may onl par and ind enc rob of the rep , as the inv req is sha bet the two par of the aut - enc ) .
we bel tha thi pro mak cae a bet cho tha dae to lea use fea ext .
sin we wil use onl the enc par for cla , rob of the ext fea app mor imp tha ro - bus of the rec .
dae rob is obt sto ( eq .
123 ) by hav sev exp cor ver of a tra - ing poi aim for an ide rec .
by con - tra , cae rob to tin per is ob - tai ana by pen the mag of rst der ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 not tha an ana app for dae sto rob cri can be obt in the lim of ver sma add gau noi , by fol - ing bis ( 123 ) .
thi yie , not sur , a ter in ( cid : 123 ) jgf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 f ( jac of rec ) rat tha the ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 f ( jac of rep ) of cae .
in the cas of a sig non , the pen on the jac nor has the fol sim exp :
f at tra poi onl ( eq
( hi ( 123 hi ) ) 123
com thi pen ( or its gra ) , is sim to and has abo the sam cos as com the re - con err ( or , res , its gra ) .
the ove com com is o ( dx dh ) .
exp and res
con mod .
in our exp , we com - par the pro con aut enc ( cae ) aga the fol mod for uns fea
tra by con div ,
rbm - bin : res bol mac ae : bas aut - enc , ae+ : aut - enc wit wei - dec reg - dae - g : den aut - enc wit gau dae - b : den aut - enc wit bin
all aut - enc var use tie wei , a sig act fun for bot enc and dec , and a cro - ent rec err ( see sec 123 ) .
the wer tra by opt the ( reg ) obj fun on the tra set by sto gra des .
as for rbm , the wer tra by the alg wer app on the tra set wit usi the lab ( uns ) to ext a rst lay of fea .
opt the pro was rep to sta add fea - ext lay on top of the rst one .
onc thu tra , the lea par val of the res fea - ext ( wei and bia of the enc ) wer use as ini - sat of a mul per ( mlp ) wit an ext ran - ini out lay .
the who net was the ne - tun by a gra des on a sup - vis obj app for cla 123 , usi the lab in the tra set .
dat use .
we hav tes our app on a ben of ima cla pro , nam : a gra - sca ver of the cif - 123 ima - cla tas ( kri and hin , 123 ) and mni : the wel - kno dig cla - tio pro .
we als use pro fro the sam ben as vin et al .
( 123 ) whi inc ve har dig rec pro der by add ext fac of var to mni dig , eac wit 123 exa for tra , 123 for val , 123 for tes as wel as two art sha cla
cla per
our rst ser of exp foc on the mni and cif - bw dat .
we com the cla - tio per obt by a neu net wit one hid lay of 123 uni , ini wit eac of the uns alg und con .
for eac cas , we sel the val of hyp ( suc as the str of reg ) tha yie , aft sup ne - tun , the bes cla per -
123 use sig - ent for bin cla -
tio , and log of sof for mul - cla pro
123 dat are ava at htt : / / www . iro .
umo . ca / ~ lis / icm : bas : sma sub of mni rot : dig wit add ran rot bg - ran : dig wit ran noi bac bg - img : dig wit ran ima bac bg - img - rot : dig wit rot - tio and ima bac rec : dis bet tal and wid rec ( whi on bla ) ; rec - img : dis - nat bet tal and wid rec ima on a die
tab 123
per com of the con mod on mni ( top hal ) and cif - bw ( bot hal ) .
re - sul are sor in asc ord of cla err on the tes set .
bes per and mod who die wit the bes per was not sta sig are in bol .
not how the ave jac nor ( bef ne - tun ) app cor wit the nal tes err .
sat is the ave fra of sat uni per exa - ple .
not sur , the cae yie a hig pro of sat uni .
for on the val set .
fin cla er - ror rat was the com on the tes set .
wit the par obt aft uns pre - tra ( bef ne - tun ) , we als com in eac cas the ave val of the enc con ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) f on the val set , as wel as a mea of the av - era fra of sat uni per exa
the res are rep in tab 123
we see tha the lo - cal con mea ( the ave ( cid : 123 ) jf ( cid : 123 ) f ) on the pre - tra mod str cor wit the nal cla err .
the cae , whi exp tri to min thi mea whi mai a goo re - con , is the bes - per mod .
dat .
res giv in tab 123 com the per of sta cae on the ben pro of lar et al .
( 123 ) to the thr - lay mod re - por in vin et al .
( 123 ) .
sta a sec lay cae on top of a rst lay app to sig imp per , thu dem the use - ful for bui dee net .
mor on the maj of dat , 123 - lay cae bea the sta - of - the - art 123 - lay mod .
123 con a uni sat if its act is bel 123 or abo 123 .
not tha in gen the set of sat uni is exp to var wit eac exa .
clo exa of the con
to bet und the fea ext pro by eac alg , in ter of the con pro - ert , we use the fol ana too : wha hap loc : loo at the sin val of the jac .
a hig dim jac - bia con dir inf : the amo of con is gen not the sam in all dir .
thi can be exa by per a sin val dec of jf .
we com the ave sin - lar val spe of the jac ove the val set for the abo mod .
res are sho in fig - ure 123 and wil be dis in sec 123 .
cur .
the fro nor of the jac at som poi x mea the con of the map lo - cal at tha poi .
int the con ind by the pro pen ter can be mea bey the imm tra exa , by the rat of the dis bet two poi in the ori ( inp ) spa and the dis onc map in the fea spa .
we cal thi iso mea con ra - tio .
in the lim whe the var in the inp spa is inn , thi cor to the der ( i . e .
jac ) of the rep map .
for any enc fun f , we can mea the ave - age con rat for pai of poi , one of whi , x12 is pic fro the val set , and the oth x12 ran gen on a sph of rad r cen - ter on x12 in inp spa .
how thi ave rat evo as a fun of r yie a con cur .
we hav com the cur for the mod for whi we rep cla per ( the con - tra cur are how com wit the ini par pri to ne tun ) .
res are sho in fig 123 for sin - lay map and in fig 123 for 123 and 123 lay map .
the wil be dis in det in the nex sec .
dis : loc spa con
fro a geo poi of vie , the rob of the fea can be see as a con of the inp spa whe pro in the fea spa , in par - lar in the nei of the exa fro the dat - gen dis : oth ( if the con was the sam at all dis ) it wou not be use , bec it wou jus be a glo sca .
suc a con - tra is hap wit the pro pen , but muc les wit it , as ill on the con cur of fig 123
for all alg tes exc the pro cae and the gau cor dae
tab 123
com of sta con aut - enc wit 123 and 123 lay ( cae - 123 and cae - 123 ) wit oth 123 - lay sta mod and bas svm .
tes err rat on all con cla pro is rep tog wit a 123 con int .
bes per is in bol , as wel as tho for whi con int ove .
cle cae can be suc use to bui top - per dee net .
123 lay of cae oft out 123 lay of oth
( dae - g ) , the con rat dec ( i . e . , tow mor con ) as we mov awa fro the tra - ing exa ( thi is due to mor sat , and was exp ) , whe for the cae the con rat ini inc , up to the poi whe the eec of sat tak ove ( the bum occ at abo the max dis bet two tra exa ) .
thi abo the cas whe the tra exa con - gre nea a low - dim man .
the var - ati pre in the dat ( e . g .
tra and ro - tat of obj in ima ) cor to loc di - men alo the man , whi the var tha are sma or rar in the dat cor to the dir - tio ort to the man ( at a par poi nea the man , cor to a par ex - amp ) .
the pro cri is try to mak the fea inv in all dir aro the tra exa , but the rec err ( or lik ) is mak sur tha tha the rep is fai - ful , i . e . , can be use to rec the inp exa - ple .
hen the dir tha res to thi con - ing pre ( str inv to inp cha ) are the dir pre in the tra set .
ind , if the var alo the dir pre in the tra set wer not pre , nei tra exa cou not be dis and pro rec .
hen the dir whe the con is str ( sma rat , sma sin val of the jac ma - tri ) are als the dir whe the mod bel tha the inp den dro qui , whe the di - rec whe the con is wea ( clo to 123 , lar con rat , lar sin val of the jac mat ) cor to the dir whe the mod bel tha the inp den is at ( and lar , sin we are nea a tra exa ) .
we bel tha thi con pen thu hel the lea car a kin of mou sup by the
tra exa , and gen to a rid bet the .
wha we wou lik is for the rid to cor - res to som dir of var pre in the dat , ass wit und fac of var .
how far do the rid ext aro eac tra exa and how at are the ? thi can be vis - ize com wit the ana of fig 123 , wit the con rat for die dis fro the not tha die fea ( ele of the rep - tat vec ) wou be exp to hav rid ( i . e .
dir of inv ) in die dir , and tha the dim of the rid ( we are in a fai hig - dim spa ) giv a hin as to the loc dim of the man nea whi the dat exa con .
the sin val spe - tru of the jac inf us abo tha geo .
the num of lar sin val sho rev the dim of the rid , i . e . , of tha man nea whi exa con .
thi is ill in fig 123 , sho the sin val spe of the enc jac .
the cae by far doe the bes job at rep the dat var nea a low - dim man , and the dae is sec bes , whi ord aut - enc ( reg or not ) do not suc at all in thi res .
wha hap whe we sta a cae on top of an - oth one , to bui a dee enc ? thi is ill - tra in fig 123 , whi sho the ave con - tio rat for die dis aro eac tra poi , for dep 123 vs dep 123 enc .
com two cae yie eve mor con and eve mor non - lin , i . e .
a sha pro , wit a att lev of con at sho and med dis , and a del eec of sat ( the bum onl com up at far dis ) .
we wou thu exp hig - lev fea to be mor inv in the fea -
fig 123
ave spe of the enc jac , for the cif - bw dat .
lar sin val cor to the loc dir of all var lea fro the dat .
the cae hav few lar sin val and a sha dec spe , it sug tha it doe a bet job of cha a low - dim man nea the tra exa .
in thi pap , we att to ans the fol que - tio : wha mak a goo rep ? bes be - ing use for a par tas , whi we can mea , or tow whi we can tra a rep , thi pap hig the adv for rep to be loc inv in man dir of cha of the raw inp .
thi ide is imp by a pen on the fro nor of the jac mat of the enc map , whi com the rep .
the pap als int emp mea of ro - bus and inv , bas on the con ra - tio of the lea map , at die dis and in die dir aro the tra exa .
we hyp tha thi rev the man str - tur lea by the mod , and we nd ( by loo - ing at the sin val spe of the map ) tha the con aut - enc dis low - in add , exp on man dat sug tha thi pen alw hel an aut - enc to per bet , and com or imp upo the rep lea by den - ing aut - enc or rbm , in ter of cla
