neu mac tra is a rec pro app to mac tra - tio .
unl the tra sta mac tra , the neu mac tra aim at bui a sin neu net tha can be joi tun to max the tra per .
the mod pro rec for neu - ral mac tra oft bel to a fam of enc and enc a sou sen int a xed - len vec fro whi a dec gen a tra .
in thi pap , we con tha the use of a xed - len vec is a bot in imp the per of thi bas enc arc - tur , and pro to ext thi by all a mod to aut ( sof - ) sea for par of a sou sen tha are rel to pre a tar wor , wit hav to for the par as a har seg exp .
wit thi new app , we ach a tra per com to the exi sta - of - the - art phr - bas sys on the tas of eng - to - fre tra .
fur , qua ana rev tha the ( sof - ) ali fou by the mod agr wel wit our int .
neu mac tra is a new eme app to mac tra , rec pro by kal and blu ( 123 ) , sut et al .
( 123 ) and cho et al .
( 123 ) .
unl the tra phr - bas tra sys ( see , e . g . , koe et al . , 123 ) whi con of man sma sub - com tha are tun sep , neu mac tra att to bui and tra a sin , lar neu net tha rea a sen and out a cor tra .
mos of the pro neu mac tra mod bel to a fam of enc dec ( sut et al . , 123 cho et al . , 123 ) , wit an enc and a dec for eac lan - gua , or inv a lan - spe enc app to eac sen who out are the com - par ( her and blu , 123 ) .
an enc neu net rea and enc a sou sen - ten int a xed - len vec .
a dec the out a tra fro the enc vec .
the who enc sys , whi con of the enc and the dec for a lan pai , is joi tra to max the pro of a cor tra giv a sou sen .
a pot iss wit thi enc app is tha a neu net nee to be abl to com all the nec inf of a sou sen int a xed - len vec .
thi may mak it dif for the neu net to cop wit lon sen , esp tho tha are lon tha the sen in the tra cor .
cho et al .
( 123 ) sho tha ind the per of a bas enc det rap as the len of an inp sen inc .
in ord to add thi iss , we int an ext to the enc mod whi lea to ali and tra joi .
eac tim the pro mod gen a wor in a tra , it ( sof - ) sea for a set of pos in a sou sen whe the mos rel inf is con .
the mod the pre a tar wor bas on the con vec ass wit the sou pos and all the pre gen tar wor .
cif sen fel
pub as a con pap at icl 123
the mos imp dis fea of thi app fro the bas enc is tha it doe not att to enc a who inp sen int a sin xed - len vec .
ins , it en - cod the inp sen int a seq of vec and cho a sub of the vec ada whi dec the tra .
thi fre a neu tra mod fro hav to squ all the inf of a sou sen , reg of its len , int a xed - len vec .
we sho thi all a mod to cop bet wit lon sen .
in thi pap , we sho tha the pro app of joi lea to ali and tra ach sig imp tra per ove the bas enc app .
the im - pro is mor app wit lon sen , but can be obs wit sen of any len .
on the tas of eng - to - fre tra , the pro app ach , wit a sin mod , a tra per com , or clo , to the con phr - bas sys .
fur , qua ana rev tha the pro mod nds a lin pla ( sof - ) ali bet a sou sen and the cor tar sen .
123 bac : neu mac tra
fro a pro per , tra is equ to ndi a tar sen y tha max - imi the con pro of y giv a sou sen x , i . e . , arg max p ( y | x ) .
neu mac tra , we t a par mod to max the con pro of sen pai usi a par tra cor .
onc the con dis is lea by a tra mod , giv a sou sen a cor tra can be gen by sea for the sen tha max the con pro .
rec , a num of pap hav pro the use of neu net to dir lea thi con - tio dis ( see , e . g . , kal and blu , 123 cho et al . , 123 sut et al . , 123 cho et al . , 123 for and nec , 123 ) .
thi neu mac tra app typ - ica con of two com , the rst of whi enc a sou sen x and the sec dec to a tar sen y .
for ins , two rec neu net ( rnn ) wer use by ( cho et al . , 123 ) and ( sut et al . , 123 ) to enc a var - len sou sen int a xed - len vec and to dec the vec int a var - len tar sen .
des bei a qui new app , neu mac tra has alr sho pro res .
sut et al .
( 123 ) rep tha the neu mac tra bas on rnn wit lon sho - ter mem ( lst ) uni ach clo to the sta - of - the - art per of the con phr - bas mac tra sys on an eng - to - fre tra tas . 123 add neu com to exi tra sys , for ins , to sco the phr pai in the phr tab ( cho et al . , 123 ) or to re - ran can tra ( sut et al . , 123 ) , has all to sur the pre sta - of - the - art per lev .
123 rnn enc
her , we des bri the und fra , cal rnn enc , pro by cho et al .
( 123 ) and sut et al .
( 123 ) upo whi we bui a nov arc tha lea to ali and tra sim .
in the enc fra , an enc rea the inp sen , a seq of vec x = ( x12 , , xtx ) , int a vec c . 123 the mos com app is to use an rnn suc tha
ht = f ( xt , ht1 )
whe ht rn is a hid sta at tim t , and c is a vec gen fro the seq of the hid sta .
f and q are som non fun .
sut et al .
( 123 ) use an lst as f and q ( ( h12 , , ht ) ) = ht , for ins .
c = q ( ( h12 , , htx ) ) ,
123 we mea by the sta - of - the - art per , the per of the con phr - bas sys
wit usi any neu net - bas com .
123 alt mos of the pre wor ( see , e . g . , cho et al . , 123 sut et al . , 123 kal and blu , 123 ) use to enc a var - len inp sen int a xed - len vec , it is not nec , and eve it may be ben to hav a var - len vec , as we wil sho lat .
pub as a con pap at icl 123
the dec is oft tra to pre the nex wor yt ( cid : 123 ) giv the con vec c and all the pre pre wor ( y12 , , yt ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) .
in oth wor , the dec den a pro ove the tra y by dec the joi pro int the ord con :
whe y = ( cid : 123 ) y12 , , yty
p ( yt | ( y12 , , yt1 ) , c ) ,
( cid : 123 ) .
wit an rnn , eac con pro is mod as
p ( yt | ( y12 , , yt1 ) , c ) = g ( yt1 , st , c ) ,
whe g is a non , pot mul - lay , fun tha out the pro of yt , and st is the hid sta of the rnn .
it sho be not tha oth arc suc as a hyb of an rnn and a de - con neu net can be use ( kal and blu , 123 ) .
123 lea to ali and tra
in thi sec , we pro a nov arc for neu mac tra .
the new arc con of a bid rnn as an enc ( sec .
123 ) and a dec tha emu sea thr a sou sen dur dec a tra ( sec
123 dec : gen des
in a new mod arc , we den eac con pro in eq .
( 123 ) as :
p ( yi| , .
, yi1 , x ) = g ( yi1 , si , ci ) ,
whe si is an rnn hid sta for tim i , com by
si = f ( si1 , yi1 , ci ) .
it sho be not tha unl the exi enc ap - pro ( see eq .
( 123 ) ) , her the pro is con on a dis con vec ci for eac tar wor yi .
the con vec ci dep on a seq of ann ( h12 , , htx ) to whi an enc map the inp sen .
eac ann hi con inf abo the who inp seq wit a str foc on the par sur the i - th wor of the inp seq .
we exp in det how the ann are com - put in the nex sec .
the con vec ci is , the , com as a wei sum of the
fig 123 : the gra ill - tra of the pro mod try to gen the t - th tar - get wor yt giv a sou sen ( x12 , x12 , .
, xt ) .
the wei ij of eac ann hj is com by
k=1 exp ( eik )
eij = a ( si1 , hj )
is an ali mod whi sco how wel the inp aro pos j and the out at pos i mat .
the sco is bas on the rnn hid sta si1 ( jus bef emi yi , eq .
( 123 ) ) and the j - th ann hj of the inp sen .
we par the ali mod a as a fee neu net whi is joi tra wit all the oth com of the pro sys .
not tha unl in tra mac tra ,
x12 , 123 , 123 , 123 , tyt - 123 - 123 pub as a con pap at icl 123
the ali is not con to be a lat var .
ins , the ali mod dir com - put a sof ali , whi all the gra of the cos fun to be bac thr .
thi gra can be use to tra the ali mod as wel as the who tra mod joi .
we can und the app of tak a wei sum of all the ann as com an exp ann , whe the exp is ove pos ali .
let ij be a pro tha the tar wor yi is ali to , or tra fro , a sou wor xj .
the , the i - th con vec ci is the exp ann ove all the ann wit pro ij .
the pro ij , or its ass ene eij , ree the imp of the ann hj wit res to the pre hid sta si1 in dec the nex sta si and gen yi .
int , thi imp a mec of att in the dec .
the dec dec par of the sou sen to pay att to .
by let the dec hav an att mec , we rel the enc fro the bur of hav to enc all inf in the sou sen int a xed - len vec .
wit thi new app the inf can be spr thr the seq of ann , whi can be sel ret by the dec acc .
123 enc : bid rnn for ann seq
the usu rnn , des in eq .
( 123 ) , rea an inp seq x in ord sta fro the rst sym x12 to the las one xtx .
how , in the pro sch , we wou lik the ann of eac wor to sum not onl the pre wor , but als the fol wor .
hen , we pro to use a bid rnn ( bir , sch and pal , 123 ) , whi has bee suc use rec in spe rec ( see , e . g . , gra et al . , 123 ) .
a bir con of for and bac rnn .
the for rnn as it is ord ( fro x12 to xtx ) and cal a seq of for hid sta ( the bac rnn seq of bac hid sta (
f rea the inp seq
h tx ) .
f rea the seq in the rev ord ( fro xtx to x12 ) , res in a
h 123 , ,
h 123 , ,
h tx ) .
h j , i . e . , hj =
we obt an ann for eac wor xj by con the for hid sta h j and the .
in thi way , the ann hj con the sum of bot the pre wor and the fol wor .
due to the ten of rnn to bet rep rec inp , the ann hj wil be foc on the wor aro xj .
thi seq of ann is use by the dec and the ali mod lat to com the con vec see fig .
123 for the gra ill of the pro mod .
123 exp set
we eva the pro app on the tas of eng - to - fre tra .
we use the bil - gua , par cor pro by acl wmt 123 as a com , we als rep the per - man of an rnn enc whi was pro rec by cho et al .
( 123 ) .
we use the sam tra pro and the sam dat for bot mod . 123
wmt 123 con the fol eng - fre par cor : eur ( 123 wor ) , new com ( 123 ) , un ( 123 ) and two cra cor of 123 and 123 wor res , tot 123 wor .
fol the pro des in cho et al .
( 123 ) , we red the siz of the com cor to hav 123 wor usi the dat sel met by axe et al .
( 123 ) . 123 we do not use any mon dat oth tha the men par cor , alt it may be pos to use a muc lar mon cor to pre an enc .
we con new - tes -
123 imp are ava at htt : / / git . com / lis - gro / gro .
123 ava onl at htt : / / www - liu . uni - lem . fr / sch / csl / .
pub as a con pap at icl 123
fig 123 : the ble sco of the gen tra on the tes set wit res to the len of the sen - ten .
the res are on tes set whi in - clu sen hav un - kno wor to the mod .
123 and new - tes - 123 to mak a dev ( val ) set , and eva the mod on the tes set ( new - tes - 123 ) fro wmt 123 , whi con of 123 sen not pre in the tra aft a usu tok , we use a sho of 123 , 123 mos fre wor in eac lan to tra our mod .
any wor not inc in the sho is map to a spe tok ( ( unk ) ) .
we do not app any oth spe pre , suc as low or ste , to the dat .
we tra two typ of mod .
the rst one is an rnn enc ( rnn , cho et al . , 123 ) , and the oth is the pro mod , to whi we ref as rnn .
we tra eac mod twi : rst wit the sen of len up to 123 wor ( rnn - 123 , rnn - 123 ) and the wit the sen of len up to 123 wor ( rnn - 123 , rnn - 123 ) .
the enc and dec of the rnn hav 123 hid uni eac . 123 the enc of the rnn con of for and bac rec neu net ( rnn ) eac hav 123 hid uni .
its dec has 123 hid uni .
in bot cas , we use a mul net wit a sin max ( goo et al . , 123 ) hid lay to com the con pro of eac tar wor ( pas et al . , 123 ) .
we use a min sto gra des ( sgd ) alg tog wit ada ( zei , 123 ) to tra eac mod .
eac sgd upd dir is com usi a min of 123 sen - ten .
we tra eac mod for app 123 day .
onc a mod is tra , we use a bea sea to nd a tra tha app max the con pro ( see , e . g . , gra , 123 bou - lew et al . , 123 ) .
sut et al .
( 123 ) use thi app to gen tra fro the neu mac tra mod .
for mor det on the arc of the mod and tra pro use in the exp , see app a and b .
123 qua res
in tab 123 , we lis the tra per mea in ble sco .
it is cle fro the tab tha in all the cas , the pro rnn out the con rnn .
mor imp , the per of the rnn is as hig as tha of the con phr - bas tra sys ( mos ) , whe onl the sen con of kno wor are con .
thi is a sig ach , con tha mos use a sep mon cor ( 123 wor ) in add to the par cor we use to tra the rnn and rnn .
123 we use the tok scr fro the ope - sou mac tra pac , mos .
123 in thi pap , by a hid uni , we alw mea the gat hid uni ( see app a . 123 ) .
123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 pub as a con pap at icl 123
fig 123 : fou sam ali fou by rnn - 123
the x - axi and y - axi of eac plo cor to the wor in the sou sen ( eng ) and the gen tra ( fre ) , res .
eac pix sho the wei ij of the ann of the j - th sou wor for the i - th tar wor ( see eq .
( 123 ) ) , in gra ( 123 : bla , 123 : whi ) .
( a ) an arb sen .
( bd ) thr ran sel sam amo the sen wit any unk wor and of len bet 123 and 123 wor fro the tes set .
one of the mot beh the pro app was the use of a xed - len con vec in the bas enc app .
we con tha thi lim may mak the bas enc app to und wit lon sen .
in fig .
123 , we see tha the per - man of rnn dra dro as the len of the sen inc .
on the oth han , bot rnn - 123 and rnn - 123 are mor rob to the len of the sen .
rnn - 123 , esp , sho no per det eve wit sen of len 123 or mor .
thi sup of the pro mod ove the bas enc is fur con by the fac tha the rnn - 123 eve out rnn - 123 ( see tab 123 ) .
the ' acc . <en ' env ' env . <en . <en ' qui . <en " thi , " the . <en " cel " , adi ' hom . <en pub as a con pap at icl 123
tab 123 : ble sco of the tra mod com - put on the tes set .
the sec and thi col sho res the sco on all the sen and , on the sen wit any unk wor in the - sel and in the ref tra .
not tha rnn - 123 ( cid : 123 ) was tra muc lon unt the per on the dev set sto imp - ing .
( ) we dis the mod to gen ( unk ) tok whe onl the sen hav no unk wor wer eva ( las col ) .
123 qua ana
the pro app pro an int way to ins the ( sof - ) ali bet the wor in a gen tra and tho in a sou sen .
thi is don by vis the ann wei ij fro eq .
( 123 ) , as in fig .
eac row of a mat in eac plo ind the wei ass wit the ann .
fro thi we see whi pos in the sou sen wer con mor imp whe gen the tar wor .
we can see fro the ali in fig .
123 tha the ali of wor bet eng and fre is lar mon .
we see str wei alo the dia of eac mat .
how , we als obs a num of non - tri , non - mon ali .
adj and nou are typ ord dif bet fre and eng , and we see an exa in fig .
fro thi gur , we see tha the mod cor tra a phr ( eur eco are ) int ( zon eco eur ) .
the rnn was abl to cor ali ( zon ) wit ( are ) , jum ove the two wor ( ( eur ) and ( eco ) ) , and the loo one wor bac at a tim to com the who phr ( zon eco eur ) .
the str of the sof - ali , opp to a har - ali , is evi , for ins , fro fig .
con the sou phr ( the man ) whi was tra int ( l hom ) .
any har ali wil map ( the ) to ( l ) and ( man ) to ( hom ) .
thi is not hel for tra , as one mus con the wor fol ( the ) to det whe it sho be tra int ( le ) , ( la ) , ( les ) or ( l ) .
our sof - ali sol thi iss nat by let the mod loo at bot ( the ) and ( man ) , and in thi exa , we see tha the mod was abl to cor tra ( the ) int ( l ) .
we obs sim beh in all the pre cas in fig .
an add ben of the sof ali - men is tha it nat dea wit sou and tar phr of dif len , wit req a cou - int way of map som wor to or fro now ( ( nul ) ) ( see , e . g . , cha 123 and 123 of koe , 123 ) .
123 . 123 lon sen
as cle vis fro fig .
123 the pro mod ( rnn ) is muc bet tha the con mod ( rnn ) at tra lon sen .
thi is lik due to the fac tha the rnn doe not req enc a lon sen int a xed - len vec per , but onl acc enc the par of the inp sen tha sur a par wor .
as an exa , con thi sou sen fro the tes set :
an adm pri is the rig of a doc to adm a pat to a hos or a med cen to car out a dia or a pro , bas on his sta as a hea car wor at a hos .
the rnn - 123 tra thi sen int :
un pri dad est le dro dun med de rec un pat `a lho ou un cen med dun dia ou de pre un dia en fon de son eta de san .
pub as a con pap at icl 123
the rnn - 123 cor tra the sou sen unt ( a med cen ) .
how , fro the on ( und ) , it dev fro the ori mea of the sou sen .
for ins , it rep ( bas on his sta as a hea car wor at a hos ) in the sou sen wit ( en fon de son eta de san ) ( bas on his sta of hea ) .
on the oth han , the rnn - 123 gen the fol cor tra , pre the who mea of the inp sen wit omi any det :
un pri dad est le dro dun med dad un pat `a un hop ou un cen med pou eff un dia ou une pro , sel son sta de tra des soi de san `a lho .
let us con ano sen fro the tes set :
thi kin of exp is par of dis eff to ext the lif of its ser and bui new rel wit aud via dig pla tha are bec eve mor imp , he add .
the tra by the rnn - 123 is
ce typ dex fai par des ini du dis pou pro la dur de vie de ses nou et de dev des lie ave les lec num qui dev plu com .
as wit the pre exa , the rnn beg dev fro the act mea of the sou sen aft gen app 123 wor ( see the und phr ) .
aft tha poi , the qua of the tra det , wit bas mis suc as the lac of a clo aga , the rnn - 123 was abl to tra thi lon sen cor :
ce gen dex fai par des eff de dis pou pro la dur de vie de ses ser et cre de nou rel ave des pub via des pla num de plu en plu imp , a - t - il ajo .
in con wit the qua res pre alr , the qua obs con - rm our hyp tha the rnn arc ena far mor rel tra of lon sen tha the sta rnn mod .
in app c , we pro a few mor sam tra of lon sou sen gen by the rnn - 123 , rnn - 123 and goo tra alo wit the ref tra .
123 rel wor
123 lea to ali
a sim app of ali an out sym wit an inp sym was pro rec by gra ( 123 ) in the con of han syn .
han syn is a tas whe the mod is ask to gen han of a giv seq of cha .
in his wor , he use a mix of gau ker to com the wei of the ann , whe the loc , wid and mix coe of eac ker was pre fro an ali mod .
mor spe , his ali was res to pre the loc suc tha the loc inc mon .
the mai dif fro our app is tha , in ( gra , 123 ) , the mod of the wei of the ann onl mov in one dir .
in the con of mac tra , thi is a sev lim - tat , as ( lon - dis ) reo is oft nee to gen a gra cor tra ( for ins , eng - to - ger ) .
our app , on the oth han , req com the ann wei of eve wor in the sou sen for eac wor in the tra .
thi dra is not sev wit the tas of tra in whi mos of inp and out sen are onl 123 wor .
how , thi may lim the app of the pro sch to oth tas .
pub as a con pap at icl 123
123 neu net for mac tra
sin ben et al .
( 123 ) int a neu pro lan mod whi use a neu net - wor to mod the con pro of a wor giv a xed num of the pre wor , neu net hav wid bee use in mac tra .
how , the rol of neu net - wor has bee lar lim to sim pro a sin fea to an exi sta mac tra sys or to re - ran a lis of can tra pro by an exi sys .
for ins , sch ( 123 ) pro usi a fee neu net to com the sco of a pai of sou and tar phr and to use the sco as an add fea in the phr - bas sta mac tra sys .
mor rec , kal and blu ( 123 ) and dev et al .
( 123 ) rep the suc use of the neu net as a sub - com of the exi tra sys .
tra , a neu net tra as a tar - sid lan mod has bee use to res or rer a lis of can tra ( see , e . g . , sch et al . , 123 ) .
alt the abo app wer sho to imp the tra per ove the sta - of - the - art mac tra sys , we are mor int in a mor amb obj of des a com new tra sys bas on neu net .
the neu mac tra - lat app we con in thi pap is the a rad dep fro the ear wor .
rat tha usi a neu net as a par of the exi sys , our mod wor on its own and gen a tra fro a sou sen dir .
the con app to neu mac tra , cal an enc app , en - cod a who inp sen int a xed - len vec fro whi a tra wil be dec .
we con tha the use of a xed - len con vec is pro for tra lon sen - ten , bas on a rec emp stu rep by cho et al .
( 123 ) and pou - aba et al .
in thi pap , we pro a nov arc tha add thi iss .
we ext the bas enc by let a mod ( sof - ) sea for a set of inp wor , or the ann com - put by an enc , whe gen eac tar wor .
thi fre the mod fro hav to enc a who sou sen int a xed - len vec , and als let the mod foc onl on inf rel to the gen of the nex tar wor .
thi has a maj pos imp on the abi of the neu mac tra sys to yie goo res on lon sen .
unl wit the tra mac tra sys , all of the pie of the tra sys , inc the ali mec , are joi tra tow a bet log - pro of pro cor we tes the pro mod , cal rnn , on the tas of eng - to - fre tra .
the exp rev tha the pro rnn out the con enc mod ( rnn ) sig , reg of the sen len and tha it is muc mor ro - bus to the len of a sou sen .
fro the qua ana whe we inv the ( sof - ) ali gen by the rnn , we wer abl to con tha the mod can cor - rec ali eac tar wor wit the rel wor , or the ann , in the sou sen as it gen a cor tra .
per mor imp , the pro app ach a tra per com to the exi phr - bas sta mac tra .
it is a str res , con tha the pro arc , or the who fam of neu mac tra , has onl bee pro as rec as thi yea .
we bel the arc pro her is a pro ste tow bet mac tra and a bet und of nat lan in gen .
one of cha lef for the fut is to bet han unk , or rar wor .
thi wil be req for the mod to be mor wid use and to mat the per of cur sta - of - the - art mac tra sys in all con .
pub as a con pap at icl 123
the aut wou lik to tha the dev of the ( ber et al . , 123 bas et al . , 123 ) .
we ack the sup of the fol age for res fun and com sup : nse , cal que , com can , the can res cha and cif .
bah - dan tha the sup fro pla int sys gmb .
we als tha fel hil , bar van mer , jea pou - aba , col dev and tae - ho kim .
