the suc of mac lea alg gen dep on dat rep , and we hyp tha thi is bec dif rep can ent and hid mor or les the dif ex - pla fac of var beh the dat .
alt spe dom kno can be use to hel des rep , lea wit gen pri can als be use , and the que for ai is mot the des of mor pow rep - lea alg imp - men suc pri .
thi pap rev rec wor in the are of uns fea lea and dee lea , cov adv in pro mod , aut - enc , man lea , and dee net .
thi mot lon - ter una que abo the app obj for lea goo rep , for com rep ( i . e . , inf ) , and the geo con be - twe rep lea , den est and man lea .
ind ter lea , rep lea , fea lea , uns lea , bol mac , aut , neu net
the per of mac lea met is hea dep on the cho of dat rep ( or fea ) on whi the are app .
for tha rea , muc of the act eff in dep mac lea alg goe int the des of pre pip and dat tra tha res in a rep of the dat tha can sup eff mac lea .
suc fea eng is imp but lab - int and hig the wea of cur lea alg : the ina to ext and org the dis - nat inf fro the dat .
fea eng is a way to tak adv of hum ing and pri kno to com for tha wea .
in ord to exp the sco and eas of app of mac lea , it wou be hig des to mak lea alg les dep on fea eng , so tha nov app cou be con fas , and mor imp , to mak pro tow art int ( ai ) .
an ai mus fun und the wor aro us , and we arg tha thi can onl be ach if it can lea to ide and dis the und exp fac hid in the obs mil of low - lev sen dat .
thi pap is abo rep lea , i . e . , lea rep of the dat tha mak it eas to ext use inf whe bui cla or oth pre .
in the cas of pro mod , a goo rep is oft one tha cap the pos dis of the und
exp fac for the obs inp .
a goo rep - tio is als one tha is use as inp to a sup pre .
amo the var way of lea rep , thi pap foc on dee lea met : tho tha are for by the com of mul non - lin tra , wit the goa of yie mor abs and ult mor use rep .
her we sur thi rap dev are wit spe emp on rec pro .
we con som of the fun que tha hav bee dri res in thi are .
spe , wha mak one rep bet tha ano ? giv an exa , how sho we com its rep , i . e .
per fea ext ? als , wha are app obj for lea goo rep ? 123 why sho we car abo lea rep lea has bec a eld in its in the mac lea com , wit reg wor at the lea con suc as nip and icm , and a new con ded to it , icl , som und the hea of dee lea or fea lea .
alt dep is an imp par of the sto , man oth pri are int and can be con cap whe the pro is cas as one of lea a rep , as dis in the nex sec - tio .
the rap inc in sci act on rep lea has bee acc and nou by a rem str of emp suc bot in aca and in ind .
bel , we bri hig som of the hig poi .
spe rec and sig pro
spe was one of the ear app of neu net , in par con ( or tim - del ) neu net 123
the rec rev of int in neu net , dee lea , and rep lea has had a str imp in the are of spe rec , wit bre res ( dah et al . , 123 den et al . , 123 sei et al . , 123 moh et al . , 123 dah et al . , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) obt by sev aca as wel as res at ind lab bri the alg to a lar sca and int pro .
for exa , mic has rel in 123 a new ver of the mav ( mic aud vid ind ser )
int con on lea rep 123
see ben ( 123 ) for a rev of ear wor in thi are .
spe sys bas on dee lea ( sei et al . , 123 ) .
the aut man to red the wor err rat on fou maj ben by abo 123 ( e . g .
fro 123 to 123 on rt1 ) com to sta - of - the - art mod bas on gau mix for the aco mod and tra on the sam amo of dat ( 123 hou of spe ) .
the rel imp in err rat obt by dah et al .
( 123 ) on a sma lar - voc spe rec ben ( bin mob bus sea dat , wit 123 hou of spe ) is bet 123 and 123 .
rep - lea alg hav als bee app to mus , sub bea the sta - of - the - art in pol - pho tra ( bou - lew et al . , 123 ) , wit rel err imp bet 123 and 123 on a sta ben of 123 dat .
dee lea als hel to win mir ( mus inf ret ) com , e . g .
in 123 on aud tag ( ham et al . , 123 ) .
the beg of dee lea in 123 hav foc on the mni dig ima cla pro ( hin et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ) , bre the sup of svm ( 123 err ) on thi dat
the lat rec are sti hel by dee net : cir et al .
( 123 ) cur cla the tit of sta - of - the - art for the unc ver of the tas ( e . g . , usi a con arc ) , wit 123 err , and rif et al .
( 123 ) is sta - of - the - art for the kno - fre ver of mni , wit 123 err .
in the las few yea , dee lea has mov fro dig to obj rec in nat ima , and the lat bre has bee ach on the ima dat bri dow the sta - of - the - art err rat fro 123 to 123 ( kri et al . , 123 ) .
nat lan pro
bes spe rec , the are man oth nat lan pro ( nlp ) app of rep lea .
dis rep for sym dat wer int by hin ( 123 ) , and rst dev in the lan mod by ben et al .
con of sta ( 123 ) in so - cal neu net lan mod ( ben , 123 ) .
the are all bas on lea a dis rep - sen for eac wor , cal a wor emb .
add a con arc , col et al .
( 123 ) dev the sen sys tha sha rep acr the tas of lan mod , par - of - spe tag , chu , nam ent rec , sem rol lab and syn par .
sen app or sur the sta - of - the - art on the tas but is sim and muc fas tha tra pre .
lea wor emb can be com wit lea ima rep in a way tha all to ass tex and ima .
thi app has bee use suc to bui goo ima sea , exp hug qua of dat to map ima and que in the sam spa ( wes et al . ,
for the kno - fre ver of the tas , whe no ima - spe pri
is use , suc as ima def or con
the 123 - cla ima ben , who res are det her :
dow fro htt : / / ml . nec - lab . com / sen /
123 ) and it has rec bee ext to dee mul - mod rep ( sri and sal , 123 ) .
the neu net
lan mod was als imp by add rec to the hid lay ( mik et al . , 123 ) , the sta - of - the - art ( smo n - gra mod ) not onl in ter of per ( exp of the ave neg log - lik of pre the rig nex wor , goi dow fro 123 to 123 ) but als in ter of wor err rat in spe rec ( sin the lan mod is an imp com of a spe rec sys ) , dec it fro 123 ( kn1 bas ) or 123 ( dis lan mod ) to 123 on the wal str jou ben tas .
sim mod hav bee app in sta mac tra ( sch et al . , 123 le et al . , 123 ) , imp per and ble sco .
re - cur aut - enc ( whi gen rec net ) hav als bee use to bea the sta - of - the - art in ful sen par det ( soc et al . , 123 ) alm dou the f12 sco for par det .
rep lea can als be use to per wor sen dis ( bor et al . , 123 ) , bri up the acc fro 123 to 123 on the sub of sen - 123 whe the sys cou be app ( wit sub - ver - obj sen ) .
fin , it has als bee suc use to sur the sta - of - the - art in sen ana ( glo et al . , 123 soc et al . , 123 ) .
mul - tas and tra lea , dom ada
tra lea is the abi of a lea alg to exp com bet dif lea tas in ord to sha sta str , and tra kno acr tas .
as dis bel , we hyp tha rep lea alg hav an adv for suc tas bec the lea rep tha cap und fac , a sub of whi may be rel for eac par tas , as ill in fig 123
thi hyp see con by a num of emp res sho the str of rep - sen lea alg in tra lea sce .
ill of rep - lea dis ex - pla fac ( mid hid lay , in red ) , som exp the inp ( sem - sup set ) , and som exp tar for eac tas .
bec the sub ove , sha of sta - tic str hel gen .
mos imp are the two tra lea cha hel in 123 and won by rep lea alg .
fir , the tra lea cha , pre at an icm 123 wor of the sam nam , was won usi uns - vis lay - wis pre - tra ( ben , 123 mes et al . , 123 ) .
a sec tra lea cha was hel the
raw inp x tas 123 out y12 tas 123 out y12 tas 123 out y12 tas sam yea and won by goo et al .
( 123 ) .
res wer pre at nip 123 cha in lea hie - arc mod wor .
in the rel dom ada set , the tar rem the sam but the inp dis cha ( glo et al . , 123 che et al . , 123 ) .
in the mul - tas lea set , rep lea has als bee fou adv kri et al .
( 123 ) ; col et al .
( 123 ) , bec of sha fac acr tas .
123 wha mak a rep goo ? 123 pri for rep lea in ai in ben and lec ( 123 ) , one of us int the not of ai - tas , whi are cha for cur mac lea alg , and inv com but hig str dep .
one rea why exp dea wit rep - sen is int is bec the can be con to exp man gen pri abo the wor aro us , i . e . , pri tha are not tas - spe but wou be lik to be use for a lea mac to sol ai - tas .
exa of suc gen - pur pri are the fol : smo : ass the fun to be lea f is s . t .
x y gen imp f ( x ) f ( y ) .
thi mos bas pri is pre in mos mac lea , but is ins to get aro the cur of dim , see sec 123 .
mul exp fac : the dat gen dis - tio is gen by dif und fac , and for the mos par wha one lea abo one fac gen in man con of the oth fac .
the obj to rec or at lea dis the und fac of var is dis in sec 123 .
thi ass is beh the ide of dis rep , dis in sec 123 bel .
a hie org of exp fac : the con tha are use for des the wor aro us can be den in ter of oth con , in a hie , wit mor abs con hig in the hie , den in ter of les abs one .
thi ass is exp wit dee rep , ela in sec 123 bel .
sem - sup lea : wit inp x and tar y to pre , a sub of the fac exp xs dis exp muc of y , giv x .
hen rep tha are use for p ( x ) ten to be use whe lea p ( y |x ) , all sha of sta str bet the uns - vis and sup lea tas , see sec 123
sha fac acr tas : wit man y s of int or man lea tas in gen , tas ( e . g . , the cor p ( y |x , tas ) ) are exp by fac tha are sha wit oth tas , all sha of sta str acr tas , as dis in the pre sec ( mul - tas and tra lea , dom ada ) .
man : pro mas con nea reg tha hav a muc sma dim tha the ori spa whe the dat liv .
thi is exp exp in som of the aut - enc alg and oth man - ins alg des res in sec 123 and 123
nat clu : dif val of cat var suc as obj cla are ass wit sep man .
mor pre , the loc var on the man ten to pre the val of a cat , and a lin int
bet exa of dif cla in gen goi thr a low den reg , i . e . , p ( x|y = i ) for dif i ten to be wel sep and not ove muc .
for exa , thi is exp in the man tan cla dis in sec 123 .
thi hyp is con wit the ide tha hum hav nam cat and cla bec of suc sta str ( dis by the bra and pro by the cul ) , and mac lea tas oft inv pre suc cat var .
tem and spa coh : con ( fro a se - que ) or spa nea obs ten to be ass wit the sam val of rel cat con , or res in a sma mov on the sur of the hig - den man .
mor gen , dif fac cha at dif tem and spa sca , and man cat con of int cha slo .
whe att to cap suc cat var , thi pri can be enf by mak the ass rep slo cha , i . e . , pen cha in val ove tim or spa .
thi pri was int in bec and hin ( 123 ) and is dis in sec 123 .
spa : for any giv obs x , onl a sma fra of the pos fac are rel .
in ter of rep , thi cou be rep by fea tha are oft zer ( as ini pro by ols and fie ( 123 ) ) , or by the fac tha mos of the ext fea are ins to sma var of x .
thi can be ach wit cer for of pri on lat var ( pea at 123 ) , or by usi a non - lin who val is oft at at 123 ( i . e . , 123 and wit a 123 der ) , or sim by pen the mag of the jac mat ( of der ) of the fun map inp to rep .
thi is dis in sec 123 . 123 and 123 .
sim of fac dep : in goo hig - lev rep , the fac are rel to eac oth thr sim , typ lin dep .
thi can be see in man law of phy , and is ass whe plu a lin pre on top of a lea rep .
we can vie man of the abo pri as way to hel the lea dis and dis som of the und ( and a pri unk ) fac of var tha the dat may rev .
thi ide is pur fur in sec 123 and 123 .
123 smo and the cur of dim for ai - tas , suc as vis and nlp , it see hop to rel onl on sim par mod ( suc as lin mod ) bec the can cap eno of the com of in - ter unl pro wit the app fea spa .
con - ver , mac lea res hav sou exi in loc non - par lea suc as ker mac wit a xed gen loc - res ker ( suc as the gau ker ) .
unf , as arg at len by ben and mon ( 123 ) ; ben et al .
( 123 ) ; ben and lec ( 123 ) ; ben ( 123 ) ; ben et al .
( 123 ) , mos of the alg onl exp the pri of loc gen , i . e . , the ass tha the tar fun ( to be lea ) is smo eno , so the rel on exa to exp map out the wri of the tar fun .
gen
loc in the sen tha the val of the lea fun at x dep
mos on tra exa x ( t ) s clo to x
exp , mea tha
is mos ach by a for of loc int bet nei tra exa .
alt smo can be a use ass , it is ins to dea wit the cur of dim , bec the num of suc wri ( ups and dow of the tar fun ) may gro exp wit the num of rel int fac , whe the dat are rep in raw inp spa .
we adv lea alg tha are exi and non - par but do not rel exc on the smo ass .
ins , we pro to inc gen pri suc as tho enu abo int rep - lea alg .
smo - bas lea ( suc as ker mac ) and lin mod can sti be use on top of suc lea rep .
in fac , the com of lea a rep and ker mac is equ to lea the ker , i . e . , the fea spa .
ker mac are use , but the dep on a pri den of a sui sim met , or a fea spa in whi nai sim met suf .
we wou lik to use the dat , alo wit ver gen pri , to dis tho fea , or equ , a sim fun .
123 dis rep rea - siz lea rep can cap a hug num of pos inp con .
a sim cou arg hel us to ass the exp of a mod pro - duc a rep : how man par doe it req com to the num of inp reg ( or con ) it can dis ? lea of one - hot rep , suc as tra clu alg , gau mix , nea - nei alg , dec tre , or gau svm all re - qui o ( n ) par ( and / or o ( n ) exa ) to dis o ( n ) inp reg .
one cou nai bel tha one can do bet .
how , rbm , spa cod , aut - enc or mul - lay neu net can all rep up to o ( 123 ) inp reg usi onl o ( n ) par ( wit k the num of non - zer ele in a spa rep , and k = n in non - spa rbm and oth den rep ) .
the are all dis 123 or spa rep .
the gen of clu to dis rep is mul - clu , whe eit sev clu tak pla in par or the sam clu is app on dif par of the inp , suc as in the ver pop hie fea ext for obj rec bas on a his of clu cat det in dif pat of an ima ( laz et al . , 123 coa and ng , 123 ) .
the exp gai fro dis or spa rep is dis fur in sec 123 ( and fig 123 ) of ben ( 123 ) .
it com abo bec eac par ( e . g .
the par of one of the uni in a spa cod , or one of the uni in a res
bol mac ) can be re - use in man exa tha are not sim nea nei of eac oth , whe wit loc gen , dif reg in inp spa are bas ass wit the own pri set of par , e . g . , as in dec tre , nea - nei , gau svm , etc .
in a dis rep , an exp lar num of pos sub of fea or hid uni can be act in res to a giv inp .
in a sin - lay mod , eac fea is typ ass wit a pre inp dir , cor to a hyp in inp spa , and the cod or rep ass wit tha inp is pre the pat of act ( whi fea res to the inp , and how muc ) .
thi is in con wit a non - dis rep suc as the one lea by mos clu alg , e . g . , k - mea , in whi the rep of a giv inp vec is a one - hot cod ide whi one of a sma num of clu cen bes rep the inp 123
123 dep and abs dep is a key asp to rep lea str we con in thi pap .
as we wil dis , dee arc are oft cha to tra eff and thi has bee the sub of muc rec res and pro .
how , des the cha , the car two sig adv tha mot our lon - ter int in dis suc tra str for dee arc .
the adv are : ( 123 ) dee arc pro the re - use of fea , and ( 123 ) dee arc can pot lea to pro mor abs fea at hig lay of rep ( mor rem fro the dat ) .
fea re - use .
the not of re - use , whi exp the pow of dis rep , is als at the hea of the the adv beh dee lea , i . e . , con mul lev of rep or lea a hie of fea .
the dep of a cir is the len of the lon pat fro an inp nod of the cir to an out nod of the cir .
the cru pro of a dee cir is tha its num of pat , i . e . , way to re - use dif par , can gro exp wit its dep .
for , one can cha the dep of a giv cir by cha the den of wha eac nod can com , but onl by a con fac .
the typ com we all in eac nod inc : wei sum , pro , art neu mod ( suc as a mon non - lin on top of an afn tra ) , com of a ker , or log gat .
the res cle sho fam of fun whe a dee rep can be exp mor efc tha one tha is ins dee ( has , 123 has and gol , 123 ben et al . , 123 ben and lec , 123 ben and del , 123 ) .
if the sam fam of fun can be rep wit few
we und non - par as inc all
who cap can be inc app as the amo of dat and its com dem it , e . g .
inc mix mod and neu net whe the num of par is a dat - sel hyp - par .
dis rep : whe k out of n rep ele or fea val can be ind var , e . g . , the are not mut exc .
eac con is rep by hav k fea bei tur on or act , whi eac fea is inv in rep man con .
spa rep : dis rep whe onl a few of
the ele can be var at a tim , i . e . , k < n .
as dis in ( ben , 123 ) , thi are onl sli bet whe in ord mix all con - val mem val , e . g . , mod ( wit sep par for eac mix com ) , but dif in rep pow is sti exp ( mon and mor , 123 ) .
the sit may als see bet wit a dec tre , whe eac giv inp is ass wit a one - hot cod ove the tre lea , whi det sel ass anc ( the pat fro roo to nod ) .
num of lea of the tre ) sti onl gro lin wit the num of par use to spe it ( ben and del , 123 ) .
the num of dif reg rep ( equ
par ( or mor pre wit a sma vc - dim ) , lea the wou sug tha it can be lea wit few exa , yie imp in bot com efc ( les nod to vis ) and sta efc ( les par to lea , and re - use of the par ove man dif kin of inp ) .
abs and inv .
dee arc can lea to abs rep bec mor abs con can oft be con in ter of les abs one .
in som cas , suc as in the con neu net ( lec et al . , 123 ) , we bui thi abs in exp via a poo mec ( see sec 123 ) .
mor abs con are gen inv to mos loc cha of the inp .
tha mak the rep tha cap the con gen hig non - lin fun of the raw inp .
thi is obv tru of cat con , whe mor abs rep - tio det cat tha cov mor var phe ( e . g .
lar man wit mor wri ) and thu the pot hav gre pre pow .
abs can als app in hig - lev con - val att tha are onl sen to som ver spe typ of cha in the inp .
lea the sor of inv fea has bee a lon - sta goa in pat rec .
123 dis fac of var bey bei dis and inv , we wou lik our rep - res to dis the fac of var .
dif exp fac of the dat ten to cha ind of eac oth in the inp dis , and onl a few at a tim ten to cha whe one con a seq of con
com dat ari fro the ric int of man sou .
the fac int in a com web tha can com ai - rel tas suc as obj cla .
for exa , an ima is com of the int bet one or mor lig sou , the obj sha and the mat pro - ert of the var sur pre in the ima .
sha fro obj in the sce can fal on eac oth in com pat , cre the ill of obj bou whe the are non and dra eff the per obj sha .
how can we cop wit the com int ? how can we dis the obj and the sha ? ult , we bel the app we ado for ove the cha mus lev the dat its , usi vas qua of unl exa , to lea rep tha sep the var exp sou .
doi so sho giv ris to a rep sig mor rob to the com and ric str var ext in nat dat sou for
it is imp to dis bet the rel but dis goa of lea inv fea and lea to dis exp fac .
the cen dif is the pre of inf .
inv fea , by den , hav red sen in the dir of inv .
thi is the goa of bui fea tha are ins to var in the dat tha are uni to the tas at han .
unf , it is oft dif to det a pri whi set of fea and var wil ult be rel to the tas at han .
fur , as is oft the cas in the con of dee lea met , the fea set bei tra may be des to be use in mul tas tha may hav dis sub of rel fea .
con suc as the lea us to the con tha the mos rob app to fea lea is to dis as man fac as pos , dis as lit inf abo the dat as is pra .
if som for of dim red is des , the we hyp tha the loc dir of var lea rep in the tra dat sho be rst to be pru out ( as in pca , for exa , whi doe it glo ins of aro eac
123 goo cri for lea rep ? one of the cha of rep lea tha dis - gui it fro oth mac lea tas suc as cla - cat is the dif in est a cle obj , or tar for tra .
in the cas of cla , the obj is ( at lea con ) obv , we wan to min the num of mis on the tra dat .
in the cas of rep lea , our obj is far - rem fro the ult obj , whi is typ lea a cla or som oth pre .
our pro is rem of the cre ass pro enc in rei lea .
we hav pro tha a goo rep is one tha dis the und fac of var , but how do we tra tha int app tra cri ? is it eve nec to do any but max lik und a goo mod or can we int pri suc as tho enu abo ( pos dat - dep one ) tha hel the rep - tio bet do thi dis ? thi que rem cle ope but is dis in mor det in sec 123 and 123 .
123 bui dee rep in 123 , a bre in fea lea and dee lea was ini by geo hin and qui fol up in the sam yea ( hin et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ran et al . , 123 ) , and soo aft by lee et al .
( 123 ) and man mor lat .
it has bee ext rev and dis in ben ( 123 ) .
a cen ide , ref to as gre lay uns pre - tra , was to lea a hie of fea one lev at a tim , usi uns fea lea to lea a new tra at eac lev to be com wit the pre lea tra ess , eac ite of uns fea lea add one lay of wei to a dee neu net .
fin , the set of lay cou be com to ini a dee sup pre - dic , suc as a neu net cla , or a dee gen mod , suc as a dee bol mac ( sal and hin , 123 ) .
thi pap is mos abo fea lea alg tha can be use to for dee arc .
in par , it was emp obs tha lay sta of fea ext oft yie bet rep , e . g . , in ter of cla err ( lar et al . , 123 erh et al . , 123 ) , qua of the sam gen by a pro mod ( sal and hin , 123 ) or in ter of the inv pro of the lea fea ( goo
et al . , 123 ) .
whe thi sec foc on the ide of sta sin - lay mod , sec 123 fol up wit a dis on joi tra of all the lay .
aft gre lay uns pre - tra , the re - sul dee fea can be use eit as inp to a sta sup mac lea pre ( suc as an svm ) or as ini for a dee sup neu net ( e . g . , by ap - pen a log reg lay or pur sup lay of a mul - lay neu net ) .
the lay pro can als be app in a pur sup set , cal the gre lay sup pre - tra ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
for exa , aft the rst one - hid - lay mlp is tra , its out lay is dis and ano one - hid - lay mlp can be sta on top of it , etc .
alt res rep in ben et al .
( 123 ) wer not as goo as for uns pre - tra , the wer non bet tha wit pre - tra at all .
alt , the out of the pre lay can be fed as ext inp for the nex lay ( in add to the raw inp ) , as suc don in yu et al .
( 123 ) .
ano var ( sei et al . , 123 ) pre - tra in a sup way all the pre add lay at eac ste of the ite , and in the exp thi dis var yie bet res tha uns pre - tra .
whe com sin lay int a sup mod is str , it is les cle how lay pre - tra by uns lea sho be com to for a bet uns mod .
we cov her som of the app to do so , but no cle win eme and muc wor has to be don to val exi pro or imp the .
the rst pro was to sta pre - tra rbm int a dee bel net ( hin et al . , 123 ) or dbn , whe the top lay is int as an rbm and the low lay as a dir sig bel net .
how , it is not cle how to app max lik tra to fur opt thi gen mod .
one opt is the wak - sle alg ( hin et al . , 123 ) but mor wor sho be don to ass the efc of thi pro in ter of imp the gen mod .
the sec app tha has bee put for is to com the rbm par int a dee bol mac ( dbm ) , by bas hal the rbm wei to obt the dbm wei ( sal and hin , 123 ) .
the dbm can the be tra by app max lik as dis in mor det lat ( sec 123 ) .
thi joi tra has bro sub imp , bot in ter of lik and in ter of cla per of the res dee fea lea ( sal and hin ,
ano ear app was to sta rbm or aut - enc int a dee aut - enc ( hin and sal - nov , 123 ) .
if we hav a ser of enc - dec pai ( f ( i ) ( ) , g ( i ) ( ) ) , the the ove enc is the com of the enc , f ( n ) ( .
f ( 123 ) ( f ( 123 ) ( ) ) ) , and the ove dec is its tra ( oft wit tra wei mat as wel ) , g ( 123 ) ( g ( 123 ) ( .
f ( n ) ( ) ) ) .
the dee aut - enc ( or its reg ver , as dis in sec 123 ) can the be joi tra , wit all the par opt wit res to a glo rec err cri .
mor wor
on thi ave cle nee to be don , and it was pro avo by fea of the cha in tra dee fee - war net , dis in the sec 123 alo wit ver enc rec res .
yet ano rec pro app to tra dee arc ( ngi et al . , 123 ) is to con the ite con of a fre ene fun ( i . e . , wit no exp lat var , exc pos for a top - lev lay of hid uni ) for a dee arc as the com of tra - tio ass wit low lay , fol by top - lev hid - den uni .
the que is the how to tra a mod den by an arb par ( fre ) ene fun .
ngi et al .
( 123 ) hav use hyb mon car ( nea , 123 ) , but oth opt inc con div ( hin , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) , sco mat ( hyv , 123 hyv , 123 ) , den sco mat ( kin and lec , 123 vin , 123 ) , rat - mat ( hyv , 123 ) and noi - con est ( gut and hyv , 123 ) .
123 sin - lay lea mod wit the com of res int in rep - tio lea , the has dev two bro par lin of inq : one roo in pro gra mod and one roo in neu net .
fun , the dif be - twe the two par is whe the lay arc of a dee lea mod is to be int as des a pro gra mod or as des a com gra .
in sho , are hid uni con lat ran var or as com nod ?
thi is lik a fun of the fac
to dat , the dic bet the two par has rem in the bac , per bec the app to hav mor cha in com tha sep the .
muc rec pro in bot of the are has foc on sin - lay gre lea mod and the sim bet the typ of sin - lay mod tha hav bee exp : mai , the res bol mac ( rbm ) on the pro sid , and the aut - enc var on the neu net sid .
ind , as sho by one of us ( vin , 123 ) and oth ( swe et al . , 123 ) , in the cas of the res bol mac , tra the mod via an ind pri kno as sco mat ( hyv , 123 ) ( to be dis in sec .
123 . 123 ) is ess ide to app a reg rec obj to an aut - enc .
ano str lin bet pai of mod on bot sid of thi div is whe the com gra for com rep in the neu net mod cor - spo exa to the com gra tha cor to inf in the pro mod , and thi hap to als cor to the str of gra mod its ( e . g . , as in the rbm ) .
the con bet the two par bec mor ten whe we con dee mod whe , in the cas of a pro mod , exa inf typ bec int .
in the cas of dee mod , the com gra div fro the str of the mod .
for exa , in the cas of a dee bol mac , unr var ( app ) inf int a com gra res in
a rec gra str .
we hav per pre exp ( sav , 123 ) of det var of dee aut - enc who com gra is sim to tha of a dee bol mac ( in fac ver clo to the mea - eld var app ass wit the bol mac ) , and tha is one int int poi to ex - plo ( bet the det app and the gra
in the nex few sec we wil rev the maj de - vel in sin - lay tra mod use to sup fea lea and par dee lea .
we div the sec bet ( sec 123 ) the pro mod , wit inf and tra sch tha dir par the gen or dec pat and ( sec 123 ) the typ - ica neu net - bas mod tha dir par the enc pat .
int , som mod , lik pre - dic spa dec ( psd ) ( kav et al . , 123 ) inh bot pro , and wil als be dis ( sec - tio 123 . 123 ) .
we the pre a dif vie of rep lea , bas on the ass geo and the man ass , in sec 123
fir , let us con an uns sin - lay rep - tat lea alg spa all thr vie : pro , aut - enc , and man lea .
pri com ana we wil use pro the old fea ext alg , pri com ana ( pca ) , to ill the pro - bil , aut - enc and man vie of rep - lea .
pca lea a lin tra h = f ( x ) = w t x + b of inp x rdx , whe the col of dx dh mat w for an ort bas for the dh ort dir of gre var in the tra dat .
the res is dh fea ( the com of rep h ) tha are dec .
the thr int of pca are the fol : a ) it is rel to pro mod ( sec 123 ) suc as pro pca , fac ana and the tra mul gau dis ( the lea eig of the cov mat are the pri com ) ; b ) the rep it lea is ess the sam as tha lea by a bas lin aut - enc ( sec 123 ) ; and c ) it can be vie as a sim lin for of lin man lea ( sec 123 ) , i . e . , cha a low - dim reg in inp spa nea whi the dat den is pea .
thu , pca may be in the bac of the rea min as a com thr rel the var vie .
unf the exp pow of lin fea is ver lim : the can be sta to for dee , mor abs rep sin the com of lin ope yie ano lin ope .
her , we foc on rec alg tha hav bee dev to ext non - lin fea , whi can be sta in the con of dee net , alt som aut sim ins a non - lin bet lea sin - lay lin pro ( le et al . , 123 che et al . , 123 ) .
ano ric fam of fea ext tec tha thi rev doe not cov in any det due to spa con is ind com ana or ica ( jut and her , 123 bel and sej , 123 ) .
ins , we ref the rea to hyv et al .
( 123 ) ; hyv et al .
( 123 ) .
not tha ,
whi in the sim cas ( com , noi - fre ) ica yie lin fea , in the mor gen cas it can be equ wit a lin gen mod wit non - gau ind lat var , sim to spa cod ( sec 123 . 123 ) , whi res in non - lin fea .
the , ica and its var lik ind and top ica ( hyv et al . , 123 ) can and hav bee use to bui dee net ( le et al . , 123 , 123 ) : see sec 123 .
the not of obt ind com als app sim to our sta goa of dis und exp fac thr dee net .
how , for com rea - wor dis , it is dou tha the rel bet tru ind und fac and the obs hig - dim dat can be ade cha by a lin tra .
123 pro mod fro the pro mod per , the que of fea lea can be int as an att to rec a par set of lat ran var tha des a dis ove the obs dat .
we can exp as p ( x , h ) a pro mod ove the joi spa of the lat var , h , and obs dat or vis var x .
fea val are con as the res of an inf pro to det the pro dis of the lat var giv the dat , i . e .
p ( h | x ) , oft ref to as the pos pro .
lea is con in ter of est a set of mod par tha ( loc ) max the reg lik of the tra dat .
the pro gra mod for giv us two pos mod par in whi we can con the que of inf lat var , dir and und gra mod , whi dif in the par of the joi dis p ( x , h ) , yie maj imp on the nat and com cos of bot inf and lea .
123 dir gra mod dir lat fac mod sep par the con - dit lik p ( x | h ) and the pri p ( h ) to con the joi dis , p ( x , h ) = p ( x | h ) p ( h ) .
exa of thi dec inc : pri com ana ( pca ) ( row , 123 tip and bis , 123 ) , spa cod ( ols and fie , 123 ) , sig bel net - wor ( nea , 123 ) and the new int spi - and - sla spa cod mod ( goo et al . , 123 ) .
123 . 123 exp awa dir mod oft lea to one imp pro : ex - pla awa , i . e . , a pri ind cau of an eve can bec non - ind giv the obs of the eve .
lat fac mod can gen be int as lat cau mod , whe the h act cau the obs x .
thi ren the a pri ind h to be non - ind .
as a con , rec the pos dis of h , p ( h | x ) ( whi we use as a bas for fea rep ) , is oft com cha and can be ent int , esp whe h is dis .
a cla exa tha ill the phe is to ima you are on vac awa fro hom and you rec a pho cal fro the sec sys com , tel you tha
the ala has bee act .
you beg wor you hom has bee bur , but the you hea on the rad tha a min ear has bee rep in the are of you hom .
if you hap to kno fro pri exp tha ear som cau you hom ala sys to act , the sud you rel , con tha you hom has ver lik not bee bur .
the exa ill how the ala act ren two oth ent ind cau , bur and ear , to bec dep in thi cas , the dep - den is one of mut exc .
sin bot bur and ear are ver rar eve and bot can cau ala act , the obs of one exp awa the oth .
des the com obs we fac whe att to rec the pos ove h , exp awa pro to pro a par p ( h | x ) , whi can be an ext use cha of a fea enc sch .
if one thi of a rep as bei com of var fea det and est att of the obs inp , it is use to all the dif fea to com and col wit eac oth to exp the inp .
thi is nat ach wit dir gra mod , but can als be ach wit und mod ( see sec 123 ) suc as bol mac if the are lat con bet the cor uni or cor int ter in the ene fun tha den the pro mod .
pro int of pca .
pca can be giv a nat pro int ( row , 123 tip and bis , 123 ) as fac ana : p ( h ) = n ( h; 123 , 123
p ( x | h ) = n ( x; w h + x , 123
whe x rdx , h rdh , n ( v; , ) is the mul nor den of v wit mea and cov , and col of w spa the sam spa as lea dh pri com , but are not con to be ort .
spa cod .
lik pca , spa cod has bot a pro - bil and non - pro int .
spa cod als rel a lat rep h ( eit a vec of ran var or a fea vec , dep on the int ) to the dat x thr a lin map w , whi we ref to as the dic .
the dif bet spa cod and pca is tha spa cod inc a pen to ens a spa act of h is use to enc eac inp x .
fro a non - pro per , spa cod can be see as rec the cod or fea vec ass wit a new inp x via :
lea the dic w can be acc by opt the fol tra cri wit res to w :
123 + ( cid : 123 ) h ( cid : 123 ) 123 ,
( cid : 123 ) x w h ( cid : 123 ) 123
= f ( x ) = arg
( cid : 123 ) x ( t ) w h
whe x ( t ) is the t - th exa and h ( t ) is the cor spa cod det by eq .
w is usu con to hav uni - nor col ( bec one can arb exc sca of col i wit sca of h ( t ) , suc a con is nec for the l12 pen to hav any eff ) .
the pro int of spa cod dif fro tha of pca , in tha ins of a gau pri on the lat ran var h , we use a spa ind lap pri ( cor to an l12 pen ) :
p ( x | h ) = n ( x; w h + x , 123
to the nor con on w .
not tha
dat p ( x ) = ( cid : 123 )
in the cas of spa cod , bec we wil see a spa rep ( i . e . , one wit man fea set to exa zer ) , we wil be int in rec the map ( max a pos val of h : i . e .
h = arg p ( h | x ) rat tha its exp val e ( h|x ) .
und thi int , dic lea pro as max the lik of the dat t p ( x ( t ) | h ( t ) ) giv the map val of h : arg ram lea sch , sub to the map val of is not sta pra in the pro the lat h , lit .
typ the lik of the h p ( x | h ) p ( h ) is max dir .
in the pre of lat var , exp max is em - plo whe the par are opt wit res to the mar lik , i . e . , sum or int the joi log - lik ove the all val of the lat var und the pos p ( h | x ) , rat tha con onl the sin map val of h .
the the pro of thi for of par lea are not yet wel und but see to wor wel in pra ( e . g .
k - mea vs gau mix mod and vit tra for hmm ) .
not als tha the int of spa cod as a map est can be que ( gri , 123 ) , bec eve tho the int of the l12 pen as a log - pri is a pos the can be oth bay int com wit the tra cri .
spa cod is an exc exa of the pow of exp awa .
eve wit a ver ove dic , the map inf pro use in spa cod to nd h can pic out the mos app bas and zer the oth , des the hav a hig deg of cor wit the inp .
thi pro ari nat in dir gra mod suc as spa cod and is ent owi to the exp awa eff .
it is not see in com use und pro - abi mod suc as the rbm , nor is it see in par fea enc met suc as aut - enc .
the tra - off is tha , com to met suc as rbm and aut - enc , inf in spa cod inv an ext inn - loo of opt to nd h wit a cor inc in the com cos of fea ext .
com to aut - enc and rbm , the cod in spa cod is a fre var for eac exa , and in tha sen the imp enc is non - par .
one mig exp tha the par of the spa cod rep and its exp awa eff wou be adv - tag and ind it see to be the cas .
coa and ng ( 123 ) dem on the cif - 123 obj cla tas ( kri and hin , 123 ) wit a pat - bas fea ext pip , tha in the reg wit few ( < 123 )
ove : wit mor dim of h tha dim of x .
lab tra exa per cla , the spa cod rep - sen sig out oth hig com enc sch .
pos bec of the pro , and bec of the ver com efc alg tha hav bee pro for it ( in com wit the gen cas of inf in the pre of exp awa ) , spa cod enj con pop as a fea lea and enc par .
the are num exa of its suc - ces app as a fea rep sch , inc - ing nat ima mod ( rai et al . , 123 kav et al . , 123 coa and ng , 123 yu et al . , 123 ) , aud cla ( gro et al . , 123 ) , nlp ( bag and bra , 123 ) , as wel as bei a ver suc mod of the ear vis cor ( ols and fie , 123 ) .
spa cri can als be gen suc to yie gro of fea tha pre to all be zer , but if one or a few of the are act the the pen for act oth in the gro is sma .
dif gro spa pat can inc dif for of pri kno ( kav et al . , 123 jen et al . , 123 bac et al . , 123 gre et al . , 123 ) .
spi - and - sla spa cod .
spi - and - sla spa cod - ing ( s12 ) is one exa of a pro var on spa cod for fea lea ( goo et al . , 123 ) .
the s12 mod pos a set of lat bin spi var tog wit a a set of lat rea - val sla var .
the act of the spi var dic the spa pat .
s12 has bee app to the cif - 123 and cif - 123 obj cla tas ( kri and hin , 123 ) , and sho the sam pat as spa cod of sup per in the reg of rel few ( < 123 ) lab exa per cla ( goo et al . , 123 ) .
in fac , in bot the cif - 123 dat ( wit 123 exa per cla ) and the cif - 123 dat ( whe the num of exa is red to a sim ran ) , the s12 rep act out spa cod rep .
thi adv was rev cle wit s12 win the nip tra lea cha ( goo et al . , 123 ) .
123 und gra mod und gra mod , als cal mar ran eld ( mrf ) , par the joi p ( x , h ) thr a pro of unn non - neg cli pot :
p ( x , h ) =
whe i ( x ) , j ( h ) and k ( x , h ) are the cli pot de - scr the int bet the vis ele , bet the hid var , and tho int bet the vis and hid var res .
the par fun z ens tha the dis is nor .
wit the con of uns fea lea , we gen see a par for of mar ran eld cal a bol dis wit cli pot con to be pos :
exp ( e ( x , h ) ) ,
p ( x , h ) =
whe e ( x , h ) is the ene fun and con the int - act des by the mrf cli pot and are the mod par tha cha the int .
the bol mac was ori den as a net of sym - cou bin ran var or uni .
( x , h ) = 123
the sto uni can be div int two gro : ( 123 ) the vis uni x ( 123 , 123 ) dx tha rep the dat , and ( 123 ) the hid or lat uni h ( 123 , 123 ) dh tha med dep bet the vis uni thr the mut int .
the pat of int is spe thr the ene fun : whe = ( u , v , w , b , d ) are the mod par whi res enc the vis - to - vis int , the vis - to - hid int - the vis sel - con , and the hid sel - con ( cal bia ) .
to avo ove - par , the dia of u and v are set to zer .
ht v h xt w h bt x dt h ,
xt u x 123
the bol mac ene fun spe the pro - abi dis ove ( x , h ) , via the bol dis , eq .
123 , wit the par fun z giv by :
( x , h; )
thi joi pro dis giv ris to the set of con dis of the for :
p ( hi | x , h\i ) = sig
p ( xj | h , x\j ) = sig
vii ( cid : 123 ) hi ( cid : 123 ) + di
ujj ( cid : 123 ) xj ( cid : 123 ) + bj
in gen , inf in the bol mac is int .
for exa , com the con pro of hi giv the vis , p ( hi | x ) , req mar ove the res of the hid , whi imp eva a sum wit 123 ter :
p ( hi | x ) =
p ( h | x )
how wit som jud cho in the pat of int - act bet the vis and hid uni , mor tra sub of the mod fam are pos , as we dis nex .
res bol mac ( rbm ) .
the rbm is lik the mos pop sub of bol ma - chi ( smo , 123 ) .
it is den by res the int in the bol ene fun , in eq .
123 , to onl tho bet h and x , i . e .
e rbm wit u = 123 and v = 123
as suc , the rbm can be sai to for a bip gra wit the vis and the hid for two lay of ver in the gra ( and no con bet uni of the sam lay ) .
wit thi res , the rbm pos the use pro tha the con dis ove the hid uni fac giv the vis :
is e bm
p ( h | x ) =
p ( hi = 123 | x ) = sig
i p ( hi | x )
j wji + di
lik , the con dis ove the vis uni giv the hid als fac :
p ( x | h ) =
p ( xj = 123 | h ) = sig
wji + bj
p ( xj | h )
thi mak inf rea tra in rbm .
for exa - ple , the rbm fea rep is tak to be the set of pos mar p ( hi | x ) , whi , giv the con ind des in eq .
123 , are imm ava .
not tha thi is in sta con to the sit wit pop dir gra mod for uns fea ext , whe com the pos pro is int .
imp , the tra of the rbm doe not ext to its par fun , whi sti inv sum an exp num of ter .
it doe imp how tha we can lim the num of ter to min ( 123 , 123 ) .
usu thi is sti an unm num of ter and the we mus res to app met to dea wit its est .
it is dif to ove the imp the rbm has had to the eld of uns fea lea and dee lea .
it has bee use in a tru imp var of app - tio , inc fmr ima cla ( sch et al . , 123 ) , mot and spa tra ( tay and hin , 123 mem and hin , 123 ) , col lte ( sal et al . , 123 ) and nat ( ran and hin , 123 cou et al . , 123 ) .
123 gen of the rbm to rea - val dat imp pro has bee mad in the las few yea in den gen of the rbm tha bet cap rea - val dat , in par rea - val ima dat , by bet mod the con cov of the inp pix .
the sta rbm , as dis abo , is den wit bot bin vis var v ( 123 , 123 ) and bin lat var h ( 123 , 123 ) .
the tra of inf and lea in the rbm has ins man aut to ext it , via mod of its ene fun , to mod oth kin of dat dis .
in par , the has bee mul att to dev rbm - typ mod of rea - val dat , whe x rdx .
the mos str app to mod rea - val obs wit the rbm fra is the so - cal gau rbm ( grb ) whe the onl cha in the rbm ene fun is to the vis uni bia , by add a bia ter tha is qua in the vis uni x .
whi it pro rem the mos pop way to mod rea - val dat wit the rbm fra , ran and hin ( 123 ) sug tha the grb has pro to be a som uns mod of nat ima .
the tra fea typ do not rep sha edg tha occ at obj bou and lea to lat rep tha are not par use fea for cla tas .
ran and hin ( 123 ) arg tha the fai of the grb to ade cap the sta str of nat ima ste fro the exc use of the mod cap to cap the con mea at the exp of the con cov .
nat ima , the arg , are chi cha by the cov of the pix val , not by the abs val .
thi poi is sup by the com use of pre met tha sta the glo sca of the pix val acr ima in a dat or acr the pix val wit eac ima .
the kin of con abo the abi of the grb to mod nat ima dat has lea to the dev of alt rbm - bas mod tha eac att to tak on thi
obj of bet mod non - dia con cov - ( ran and hin , 123 ) int the mea and cov rbm ( mcr ) .
lik the grb , the mcr is a 123 - lay bol mac tha exp mod the vis uni as gau dis qua .
how unl the grb , the mcr use its hid lay to ind par bot the mea and cov of the dat thr two set of hid uni .
the mcr is a com of the cov rbm ( crb ) ( ran et al . , 123 ) , tha mod the con cov , wit the grb tha cap the con mea .
whi the grb has sho con pot as the bas of a hig suc pho rec - tio sys ( dah et al . , 123 ) , it see tha due to dif in tra the mcr , the mod has bee lar sup by the mpo mod .
the mpo mod ( mea - pro of stu t - dis mod ) ( ran et al . , 123 ) is a com of the grb and the pro of stu t - dis mod ( wel et al . , 123 ) .
it is an ene - bas mod whe the con dis ove the vis uni con on the hid var is a mul gau ( non - dia cov ) and the com con dis ove the hid var giv the vis are a set of ind gam dis .
the pot mod has rec bee gen to the mpo mod ( ran et al . , 123 ) to inc non gau mea by the add of grb - lik hid uni , sim to how the mcr gen the crb .
the mpo mod has bee use to syn lar - sca nat ima ( ran et al . , 123 ) tha sho lar - sca fea and sha str .
it has bee use to mod nat tex ( kiv and wil , 123 ) in a til - con con ( see
ano rec int rbm - bas mod wit the obj of hav the hid uni enc bot the mea and cov inf is the spi - and - sla res bol mac ( ssr ) ( cou et al . , 123 , b ) .
the ssr is den as hav bot a rea - val sla var and a bin spi var ass wit eac uni in the hid lay .
the ssr has bee dem as a fea lea and ext sch in the con of cif - 123 obj cla ( kri and hin , 123 ) fro nat ima and has per wel in the rol ( cou et al . , 123 , b ) .
whe tra con ( see sec 123 ) on ful cif - 123 nat ima , the mod dem the abi to gen nat ima sam tha see to cap the bro sta str of nat ima bet tha pre par gen mod , as ill wit the sam of fig 123
the mcr , mpo and ssr eac set out to mod rea - val dat suc tha the hid uni enc not onl the con mea of the dat but als its con cov .
oth tha dif in the tra sch , the mos sig dif bet the mod is how the enc the con cov .
whi the mcr and the mpo use the act of the hid uni to enf con - str on the cov of x , the ssr use the hid uni to pin the pre mat alo the dir spe by the cor wei vec .
the two way of mod
bol mac , is giv by :
log p ( x ( t ) ) = t ( cid : 123 )
whe we hav the exp wit res to p ( h ( t ) | x ( t ) ) in the cla con ( als cal the pos pha ) , and ove the ful joi p ( x , h ) in the unc con ( als cal the neg pha ) .
int , the gra act to loc mov the mod dis ( the neg pha dis ) tow the dat dis ( pos pha dis - tri ) , by pus dow the ene of ( h , x ( t ) ) pai ( for h p ( h|x ( t ) ) ) whi pus up the ene of ( h , x ) pai ( for ( h , x ) p ( h , x ) ) unt the two for are in equ , at whi poi the suf sta ( gra of the ene fun ) hav equ exp wit x sam fro the tra dis or wit x sam fro the mod .
the rbm con ind pro imp tha the exp in the pos pha of eq .
123 is tra .
the neg pha ter ari fro the par fun - tio con to the log - lik gra is mor pro bec the com of the exp ove the joi is not tra .
the var way of dea wit the par fun con to the gra hav bro abo a num of dif tra alg , man try to app the log - lik gra .
to app the exp of the joi dis in the neg pha con to the gra , it is nat to aga con exp the con ind of the rbm in ord to spe a mon car app of the exp ove the joi :
wit the sam ( x ( l ) , h ( l ) ) dra by a blo gib mcm ( mar cha mon car ) sam pro :
x ( l ) p ( x | h ( l12 ) ) h ( l ) p ( h | x ( l ) ) .
nai , for eac gra upd ste , one wou sta a gib sam cha , wai unt the cha con to the equ dis and the dra a suf num of sam to app the exp gra wit res to the mod ( joi ) dis in eq .
the res the pro for the nex ste of app gra asc on the log - lik .
thi pro has the obv aw tha wai for the gib cha to bur - in and rea equ ane for eac gra upd can for the bas of a pra - tic tra alg .
con div ( hin , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) , sto max lik ( you , 123 tie , 123 ) and fas - wei per con div or fpc ( tie and hin , 123 ) are all way to avo or red the nee for bur - in .
123 . 123 con div con div ( cd ) est ( hin , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) est the neg pha exp ( eq .
123 ) wit a ver sho gib cha ( oft jus one ste ) ini
( top ) sam fro con tra - ssr fro cou et al .
( 123 ) .
( bot ) ima in cif - 123 tra - ing set clo ( l12 dis wit con nor tra ima ) to cor mod sam on top .
the mod doe not app to be ove par tra exa .
con cov div whe the dim of the hid lay is sig dif fro tha of the inp .
in the ove set , spa act wit the ssr par per var onl in the sel dir of the spa act hid uni .
thi is a pro the ssr sha wit spa cod mod ( ols and fie , 123 gro et al . , 123 ) .
on the oth han , the cas of the mpo or mcr , an ove set of con on the cov imp tha cap arb cov alo a par dir of the inp req dec pot all con wit pos pro in tha dir .
thi per wou sug tha the mpo and mcr do not app to be wel sui to pro a spa rep in the ove set .
123 rbm par est man of the rbm tra met we dis her are ap - pli to mor gen und gra mod , but are par pra in the rbm set .
fre and hau ( 123 ) pro a lea alg for har ( rbm ) bas on pro pur .
con div ( hin , 123 hin et al . , 123 ) has bee use mos oft to tra rbm , and man rec pap use sto max lik ( you , 123 tie , 123 ) .
as dis in sec .
123 , in tra pro mod par are typ ada in ord to max the lik - lih of the tra dat ( or equ the log - lik , or its pen ver , whi add a reg ter ) .
wit t tra exa , the log lik is giv by :
log p ( x ( t ) ; ) =
p ( x ( t ) , h; ) .
gra - bas opt req its gra , whi for
at the tra dat use in the pos pha .
thi red the var of the gra est and sti mov in a dir tha pul the neg cha sam tow the as - soc pos cha sam .
muc has bee wri abo the pro and alt int of cd and its sim to aut - enc tra , e . g .
car - per and hin ( 123 ) ; yui ( 123 ) ; ben and del ( 123 ) ; sut and tie ( 123 ) .
123 . 123 sto max lik the sto max lik ( sml ) alg ( als kno as per con div or pcd ) ( you , 123 tie , 123 ) is an alt way to sid an ext bur - in of the neg pha gib sam .
at eac gra upd , rat tha ini the gib cha at the pos pha sam as in cd , sml ini the cha at the las sta of the cha use for the pre upd .
in oth wor , sml use a con run gib cha ( or oft a num of gib cha run in par ) fro whi sam are dra to est the neg pha exp .
des the mod par cha bet upd , the cha sho be sma eno tha onl a few ste of gib ( in pra , oft one ste is use ) are req to mai sam fro the equ dis of the gib cha , i . e .
the mod dis .
a tro asp of sml is tha it rel on the gib cha to mix wel ( esp bet mod ) for lea to suc .
typ , as lea pro and the wei of the rbm gro , the erg of the gib sam beg to bre dow
if the lea rat ass wit gra asc + g ( wit e ( g ) log p ( x ) ) is not red to com , the the gib sam wil div fro the mod dis and lea wil fai .
des et al .
( 123 ) ; cho et al .
( 123 ) ; sal ( 123 , a ) hav all con var for of tem tra to add the fai of gib cha mix , and con sol hav not yet bee cle dem .
a rec int pro ave rel on dep its , sho tha mix bet mod is muc eas on dee lay ( ben et al . ,
tie and hin ( 123 ) hav pro qui a dif - fer app to add pot mix pro of sml wit the fas - wei per con div ( fpc ) , and it has als bee exp to tra dee bol - man mac ( sal , 123 ) and con a pur sam alg for rbm ( bre et al . , 123 ) .
fpc bui on the sur but rob ten of gib cha to mix bet dur sml lea tha whe the mod par are xed .
the phe is roo in the for of the lik gra its ( eq .
the sam dra fro the sml gib cha are use in the neg pha of the gra , whi imp tha the lea upd wil sli inc the ene ( dec the pro ) of tho sam , mak the reg in the nei of tho sam
whe wei bec lar , the est dis is mor pea , and the cha tak ver lon tim to mix , to mov fro mod to mod , so tha pra the gra est can be ver poo .
thi is a ser chi - and - egg pro bec if sam is not eff , nor is the tra pro , whi may see to sta , and yie eve lar wei .
les lik to be res and the mak it mor lik tha the sam wil mov som els ( typ goi nea ano mod ) .
rat tha dra sam fro the dis of the cur mod ( wit par ) , fpc exa thi eff by dra sam fro a loc per of the mod wit par and an upd
t+1 = ( 123 ) t+1 +
whe is the rel lar fas - wei ( > ) and 123 < < 123 ( but nea 123 ) is a for fac tha kee the per mod clo to the cur mod .
unl tem , fpc doe not con to the mod dis as and go to 123 , and fur wor is nec to cha the nat of its app to the mod dis .
nev , fpc is a pop and app eff mea of dra app sam fro the mod dis tha fai rep its div , at the pri of som gen spu sam in bet two mod ( bec the fas wei rou cor to a smo vie of the cur mod ene fun ) .
it has bee app in a var of app ( tie and hin , 123 ran et al . , 123 kiv and wil , 123 ) and it has bee tra int a sam alg ( bre et al . , 123 ) tha als sha thi fas mix pro wit her ( wel , 123 ) , for the sam rea , i . e . , int neg cor bet con sam of the cha in ord to pro fas mix .
123 . 123 pse , rat - mat and mor whi cd , sml and fpc are by far the mos pop met - ods for tra rbm and rbm - bas mod , all of the met are per mos nat des as off dif - fer app to max lik tra .
the exi oth ind pri tha are alt to max - mum lik tha can als be use to tra rbm .
in par - ula , the inc pse - lik ( bes , 123 ) and rat - mat ( hyv , 123 ) .
bot of the ind pri att to avo exp dea wit the par fun , and the asy efc has bee ana ( mar and de fre , 123 ) .
pse - lik see to max the pro of all one - dim con dis of the for p ( xd| ) , whi rat - mat can be int as an ext of sco mat ( hyv , 123 ) to dis dat typ .
bot met amo to wei dif of the gra of the rbm fre ene eva at a dat poi and at nei poi .
one pot dra of the met is tha dep on the par of the ene fun , the com req may sca up to o ( nd ) wor tha cd , sml , fpc , or den sco mat ( kin and lec , 123 vin , 123 ) , dis bel .
mar et al .
( 123 ) emp com all of the met ( exc den sco mat ) on a ran of cla , rec and den mod tas and fou tha , in gen , sml pro the bes com of ove per and com tra .
how , in a lat stu , the sam aut ( swe et al . , 123 ) 123
the fre ene f ( x; ) is the ene ass wit the dat mar pro , f ( x; ) = log p ( x ) log z and is tra for the rbm .
fou den sco mat to be a com ind pri bot in ter of cla per ( wit res to sml ) and in ter of com efc ( wit res to ana obt sco mat ) .
den sco mat is a spe cas of the den aut - enc tra cri ( sec 123 . 123 ) whe the rec err res equ a gra , i . e . , the sco fun ass wit an ene fun , as sho in ( vin , 123 ) .
in the spi of the bol mac gra ( eq .
123 ) sev app hav bee pro to tra ene - bas mod .
one is noi - con est ( gut and hy - var , 123 ) , in whi the tra cri is tra int a pro cla pro : dis bet ( pos ) tra exa and ( neg ) noi sam gen by a bro dis ( suc as the gau ) .
ano fam of app , mor in the spi of con div , rel on dis pos exa ( of the tra dis ) and neg exa obt by per of the pos exa ( col and wes , 123 bor et al . , 123 wes et al . , 123 ) .
123 dir lea a par map fro inp to rep wit the fra of pro mod ado in sec 123 , the lea rep is alw ass wit lat var , spe wit the pos dis giv an obs inp x .
unf , thi pos dis - tri ten to bec ver com and int if the mod has mor tha a cou of int lay , whe in the dir or und gra mod fra - wor .
it the bec nec to res to sam or app inf tec , and to pay the ass com and app err pri .
if the tru pos - ter has a lar num of mod tha mat the cur inf tec may fac an uns cha or end a pot ser app .
thi is in add to the dif rai by the int par fun in und gra mod .
mor a pos dis ove lat var is not yet a sim usa fea vec tha can for exa be fed to a cla .
so act fea val are typ der fro tha dis , tak the lat var exp ( as is typ don wit rbm ) , the mar pro , or ndi the mos lik val ( as in spa cod ) .
if we are to ext sta det num fea val in the end any , an alt ( app ) non - pro fea lea par tha foc on car out thi par of the com , ver ef - cie , is tha of aut - enc and oth dir par fea or rep fun .
the com bet the met is tha the lea a dir enc , i . e . , a par map fro inp to the rep .
reg aut - enc , dis nex , als inv lea a dec fun tha map bac fro rep - tat to inp spa .
sec 123 and 123 dis dir enc met tha do not req a dec , suc as sem - sup emb ( wes et al . , 123 ) and slo fea ana ( wis and sej , 123 ) .
in the aut - enc fra ( lec , 123 bou and kam , 123 hin and zem , 123 ) , one sta by ex - pli den a fea - ext fun in a spe par clo for .
thi fun , tha we wil den f , is cal the enc and wil all the str and efc com of a fea vec h = f ( x ) fro an inp x .
for eac exa x ( t ) fro a dat set ( x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( t ) ) , we den
h ( t ) = f ( x ( t ) )
whe h ( t ) is the fea - vec or rep or cod com - put fro x ( t ) .
ano clo for par fun g , cal the dec , map fro fea spa bac int inp spa , pro a rec r = g ( h ) .
whe pro mod are den fro an exp pro fun and are tra to max ( oft app ) the dat lik ( or a pro ) , aut - enc are par thr the enc and dec and are tra usi a dif tra pri .
the set of par of the enc and dec are lea sim on the tas of rec as wel as pos the ori inp , i . e .
att to inc the low pos rec err l ( x , r ) a mea of the dis bet x and its rec r ove tra exa .
goo gen mea low rec err at tes exa , whi hav hig rec err for mos oth x con .
to cap the str of the dat - gen dis , it is the imp tha som in the tra cri - rio or the par pre the aut - enc fro lea the ide fun , whi has zer rec err eve .
thi is ach thr var mea in the dif for of aut - enc , as des bel in mor det , and we cal the reg aut - enc .
a par for of reg con in con the cod to hav a low dim , and thi is wha the cla aut - enc or pca do .
in sum , bas aut - enc tra con in ndi a val of par vec min rec err
whe x ( t ) is a tra exa .
thi min is usu car out by sto gra des as in the tra of mul - lay - per ( mlp ) .
sin aut - enc wer pri dev as mlp pre the inp , the mos com use for for the enc and dec are afn map , opt fol by a non - lin :
f ( x ) = sf ( b + w x ) g ( h ) = sg ( d + w
whe sf and sg are the enc and dec act fun ( typ the ele - wis sig or hyp tan non - lin , or the ide fun if sta lin ) .
the set of par of suc a mod is = ( w , b , w ( cid : 123 ) , d ) whe b and d are cal enc and dec bia vec , and w and w ( cid : 123 ) are the enc and dec wei mat .
the cho of sg and l dep lar on the inp dom ran and nat , and are usu cho so tha l ret a neg log - lik for the obs val of x .
a nat cho for an unb dom is a lin dec wit a
squ rec err , i . e .
sg ( a ) = a and l ( x , r ) = ( cid : 123 ) x r ( cid : 123 ) 123
if inp are bou bet 123 and 123 how , ens a sim - bou rec can be ach by usi sg = sig .
in add if the inp are of a bin nat , a bin cro - ent los is som use .
if bot enc and dec use a sig non - lin , the f ( x ) and g ( h ) hav the exa sam for as the con p ( h | v ) and p ( v | h ) of bin rbm ( see sec 123 ) .
thi sim mot an ini stu ( ben et al . , 123 ) of the pos of rep rbm wit aut - enc as the bas pre - tra str for bui dee net , as wel as the com ana of aut - enc rec err gra and con div up - dat ( ben and del , 123 ) .
one not dif in the par is tha rbm use a sin wei mat , whi fol nat fro the ene fun , whe the aut - enc fra all for a dif mat in the enc and dec .
in pra how , wei - tyi in whi one den w ( cid : 123 ) = w t may be ( and is mos oft ) use , ren the par ide .
the usu tra pro how dif gre bet the two app .
a pra adv of tra aut - enc var is tha the den a sim tra opt obj tha can be use to mon pro .
in the cas of a lin aut - enc ( lin enc and dec ) wit squ rec err , min eq .
123 lea the sam sub as pca .
thi is als tru whe usi a sig non in the enc ( bou and kam , 123 ) , but not if the wei w and w ( cid : 123 ) are tie ( w ( cid : 123 ) = w t ) , bec w can be for int bei sma and w ( cid : 123 ) lar to ach a lin enc .
reg ter of the for ( cid : 123 )
sim , le et al .
( 123 ) rec sho tha add a j s12 ( wjx ( t ) ) to a lin aut - enc wit tie wei , whe s12 is a non con fun , yie an efc alg for lea lin ica .
123 reg aut - enc lik pca , aut - enc wer ori see as a dim - sio red tec and thu use a bot , i . e .
dh < dx .
on the oth han , suc use of spa cod and rbm app ten to fav ove i . e .
dh > dx .
thi can all the aut - enc to sim dup the inp in the fea , wit per rec wit hav ext mor mea - ing fea .
rec res has dem ver suc - ces alt way , cal reg aut - enc , to con the rep , eve whe it is ove .
the eff of a bot or of thi reg is tha the aut - enc can rec wel eve , it is tra to rec wel the tra exa and gen mea tha rec err is als sma on tes exa .
an int jus ( ran et al . , 123 ) for the spa pen ( or any pen tha res in a sof way
i=1 xi log ( ri ) + ( 123 xi ) log ( 123 ri )
con to tra pca loa fac , but sim to the par lea by pro pca , the wei vec lea by a lin aut - enc are not con to for an ort bas , nor to hav a mea ord .
the wil how spa the sam sub .
l ( x , r ) = ( cid : 123 ) dx
the vol of hid con eas acc by the lea ) is tha it act in spi lik the par fun of rbm , by mak sur tha onl few inp con can hav a low rec err .
alt , one can vie the obj of the reg - tio app to an aut - enc as mak the rep as con ( ins ) as pos wit res to cha in inp .
thi vie imm jus two var of reg aut - enc des bel : con aut - enc red the num of eff deg of fre of the rep ( aro eac poi ) by mak the enc con , i . e . , mak the der of the enc sma ( thu mak the hid uni sat ) , whi the den aut - enc mak the who map rob , i . e . , ins - sit to sma ran per , or con , mak sur tha the rec can sta goo whe mov in mos dir aro a tra exa .
123 . 123 spa aut - enc the ear use of sin - lay aut - enc for bui dee arc by sta the ( ben et al . , 123 ) con the ide of tyi the enc wei and dec wei to res cap as wel as the ide of int a for of spa reg ( ran et al . , 123 ) .
spa in the rep can be ach by pen the hid uni bia ( mak the add off par mor neg ) ( ran et al . , 123 lee et al . , 123 goo et al . , 123 lar and ben , 123 ) or by dir pen the out of the hid uni act ( mak the clo to the sat val at 123 ) ( ran et al . , 123 le et al . , 123 zou et al . , 123 ) .
pen the bia run the dan tha the wei cou com for the bia , whi cou hur num opt .
whe dir pen the hid uni out , sev var can be fou in the lit , but a cle com ana is sti lac .
alt the l12 pen ( i . e . , sim the sum of out ele hj in the cas of sig non - lin ) wou see the mos nat ( bec of its use in spa cod - ing ) , it is use in few pap inv spa aut - enc .
a clo cou of the l12 pen is the stu - t pen j ) ) , ori pro for spa cod ( ols and fie , 123 ) .
sev pap pen the ave out hj ( e . g .
ove a min ) , and ins of pus it to 123 , enc it to app a xed tar , eit thr a mea - squ err pen , or may mor sen ( bec hj beh lik a pro ) , a kul - lie div wit res to the bin dis wit pro : log hj ( 123 ) log ( 123 hj ) +co , e . g . , wit = 123 .
123 . 123 den aut - enc vin et al .
( 123 , 123 ) pro alt the tra ob - jec in eq .
123 fro mer rec to tha of den an art cor inp , i . e .
lea to rec the cle inp fro a cor ver .
lea the ide is no lon eno : the lea mus cap the str of the inp dis in ord to opt und the eff of the cor pro , wit the rec ess bei a nea but hig den poi tha the cor inp .
fig 123 ill tha the den aut - enc
( dae ) is lea a rec fun tha cor to a vec eld poi tow hig - den reg ( the man whe exa con ) .
123 . 123 con aut - enc con aut - enc ( cae ) , pro by rif et al .
( 123 ) , fol up on den aut - enc ( dae ) and sha a sim mot of lea rob rep .
cae ach thi by add an ana con pen to eq .
123 : the fro nor of the enc jac , and res in pen the sen of lea fea to inn inp var .
let j ( x ) = f x ( x ) the jac mat of the enc at x .
the cae tra obj is
l ( x ( t ) , g ( f ( x ( t ) ) ) ) +
whe dat con nea a low - dim man , the cor vec is typ alm ort to the man , and the rec fun lea to den , map fro low - pro con ( cor inp ) to hig - pro one ( ori inp ) , cre a vec eld ali wit the sco ( der of the est den ) .
for , the obj opt by a dae is :
q ( x|x ( t ) ) ( ) ave ove cor exa x dra fro cor pro q ( x|x ( t ) ) .
in pra thi is opt by sto gra des , whe the sto gra is est by dra one or a few cor ver of x ( t ) eac tim x ( t ) is con .
cor con in vin - cen et al .
( 123 ) inc add iso gau noi , sal and pep noi for gra - sca ima , and mas noi ( sal or pep onl ) , e . g . , set som ran cho inp to 123 ( ind per exa ) .
mas noi has bee use in mos of the sim .
qua bet fea are rep wit den , res in imp cla , and dae fea per sim or bet tha rbm fea .
che et al .
( 123 ) sho tha a sim alt wit a clo for sol can be obt whe res to a lin aut - enc and hav suc app it to dom ada .
vin ( 123 ) rel dae to ene - bas pro mod : dae bas lea in r ( x ) x a vec poi in the dir of the est sco log p ( x ) ( fig 123 ) .
in the spe cas of lin rec and squ err , vin ( 123 ) sho tha tra an afn - sig - afn dae amo to lea an ene - bas mod , who ene fun is ver clo to tha of a grb .
tra use a reg var of the sco mat par est - tio tec ( hyv , 123 hyv , 123 kin and lec , 123 ) ter den sco mat ( vin , 123 ) .
swe ( 123 ) had sho tha tra grb wit sco mat is equ to tra a reg aut - enc wit an add reg ter , whi , fol up on the the res in vin ( 123 ) , swe et al .
( 123 ) sho the pra adv of den to imp sco mat efc .
fin ala and ben ( 123 ) gen vin ( 123 ) and pro tha dae of arb par wit sma gau cor noi are gen est of the sco .
whe is a hyp - par con the str of the reg .
for an afn sig enc , the con pen ter is eas to com :
jj ( x ) = f ( x ) j ( 123 f ( x ) j ) wj
the are at lea thr not dif wit dae , whi may be par res for the bet per tha cae fea see to emp dem : ( a ) the sen of the fea is pen rat tha tha of the rec - tio ( b ) the pen is ana rat tha sto : an ef - cie com exp rep wha mig oth req dx cor sam to siz up ( i . e .
the sen in dx dir ) ; ( c ) a hyp - par all a ne con of the tra - off bet rec and rob ( whi the two are min in a dae ) .
not how tha the is a tig con bet the dae and the cae : as sho in ( ala and ben , 123 ) a dae wit sma cor noi can be see ( thr a tay exp ) as a typ of con aut - enc whe the con pen is on the who rec fun rat tha jus on the enc
a pot dis of the cae ana pen is tha it amo to onl enc rob to inn inp var .
thi is rem in rif et al .
( 123 ) wit the cae , tha pen all hig ord der , in an efc sto man , by add a ter tha enc j ( x ) and j ( x + ) to be clo :
l ( x ( t ) , g ( x ( t ) ) ) +
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) j ( x ) j ( x + ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
whe n ( 123 , 123 ) , and is the ass reg
the dae and cae hav bee suc use to win the nal pha of the uns and tra lea cha ( mes et al . , 123 ) .
the rep lea by the cae ten to be sat rat tha spa , i . e . , mos hid uni are nea the ext of the ran ( e . g .
123 or 123 ) , and the der hi ( x ) is nea 123
the non - sat uni are few and sen to the inp , wit the ass lte ( wei vec ) tog for a bas exp the loc cha aro x , as dis in sec 123 .
ano way to get sat ( nea bin ) uni is sem has ( sal and hin , 123 ) .
i . e . , the rob of the rep is enc .
but not tha in the cae , the dec wei are tie to the enc wei , to avo deg sol , and thi sho als mak the dec
cor inp cor inp pri : &ex inp ( cid : 123 )
123 . 123 pre spa dec spa cod ( ols and fie , 123 ) may be vie as a kin of aut - enc tha use a lin dec wit a squ rec err , but who non - par enc f per the com non - tri and rel cos ite min of eq .
a pra suc var of spa cod and aut - enc , nam pre spa dec or psd ( kav et al . , 123 ) rep tha cos and hig non - lin enc ste by a fas non - ite app dur rec ( com the lea fea ) .
psd has bee app to obj rec in ima and vid ( kav et al . , 123 , 123 jar et al . , 123 ) , but als to aud ( hen et al . , 123 ) , mos wit the fra of mul - sta con dee arc - tec ( sec 123 ) .
the mai ide can be sum by the fol equ for the tra cri , whi is sim opt wit res to hid cod ( rep ) h ( t ) and wit res to par ( w , ) : whe x ( t ) is the inp vec for exa t , h ( t ) is the opt hid cod for tha exa , and f ( ) is the enc fun , the sim var bei f ( x ( t ) ) = tan ( b + w t x ( t ) )
whe enc wei are the tra of dec wei .
man var hav bee pro , inc the use of a shr ope ins of the hyp tan - gen ( kav et al . , 123 ) .
not how the l12 pen on h ten to mak the spa , and how thi is the sam cri as spa cod wit dic lea ( eq .
123 ) exc for the add con tha one sho be abl to app the spa cod h wit a par enc f ( x ) .
one can thu vie psd as an app to spa cod , whe we obt a fas app enc .
onc psd is tra , obj rep f ( x ) are use to fee a cla .
the are com qui and can be fur ne - tun : the enc can be vie as one sta or one lay of a tra mul - sta sys suc as a fee neu net .
( cid : 123 ) h ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 + ( cid : 123 ) x ( t ) w h ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
123 + ( cid : 123 ) h ( t ) f ( x ( t ) ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
psd can als be see as a kin of aut - enc whe the cod h are giv som fre tha can hel to fur imp rec .
one can als vie the enc pen add on top of spa cod as a kin of reg tha for the spa cod to be nea com by a smo and efc enc .
thi is in con wit the cod obt by com opt of the spa cod cri - rio , whi are hig non - smo or eve non - dif , a pro tha mot oth app to smo the inf cod of spa cod ( bag and bra , 123 ) , so a spa cod sta cou be joi opt alo wit fol sta of a dee arc .
123 rep lea as man - ano imp per on rep lea is bas on the geo not of man .
its pre is the man hyp , acc to whi rea - wor dat pre in hig dim spa are exp to con - cen in the vic of a man m of muc low
dim dm , emb in hig dim inp spa rdx .
thi pri see par wel sui for ai tas suc as tho inv ima , sou or tex , for whi mos uni sam inp con are unl nat sti .
as soo as the is a not of rep the one can thi of a man by con the var - ati in inp spa , whi are cap by or ree ( by cor cha ) in the lea rep .
to rst app , som dir are wel pre ( the tan dir of the man ) whi oth are ( dir ort to the man ) .
wit thi per - tiv , the pri uns lea tas is the see as mod the str of the dat - sup man
the ass rep bei lea can be ass wit an int coo sys on the emb man .
the arc man mod alg is , not sur , als the arc low dim rep lea alg : pri com ana , whi mod a lin man .
it was ini dev wit the obj of ndi the clo lin man to a clo of dat poi .
the pri com , i . e .
the rep f ( x ) tha pca yie for an inp poi x , uni loc its pro on tha man : it cor to int co - ord on the man .
dat man for com rea wor dom are how exp to be str non - lin .
the mod is som app as pat of loc lin tan spa ( vin and ben , 123 bra , 123 ) .
the lar maj of alg bui on thi geo per ado a non - par app , bas on a tra set nea nei gra ( sch et al . , 123 row and sau , 123 ten et al . , 123 bra , 123 bel and niy , 123 don and gri , 123 wei and sau , 123 hin and row , 123 van der maa and hin , 123 ) .
in the non - par app , eac hig - dim tra poi has its own set of fre low - dim emb coo , whi are opt so tha cer pro of the nei gra com in ori hig dim inp spa are bes pre .
the met how do not dir lea a par fea ext fun f ( x ) app to new tes poi , whi ser lim the use as fea ext , exc in a tra set .
com few non - lin man lea met hav bee pro , lea a par map tha can dir com a rep for new poi we wil foc on the .
123 lea a par map bas on a som of the abo non - par man lea al - gor can be mod to lea a par map ins of hav fre
i . e . , app to new poi :
act , dat poi nee not str lie on the man , but the pro den is exp to fal off sha as one mov awa fro it , and it may act be con of sev pos dis man wit dif int dim .
for sev of the tec , rep for new poi can be com usi the nys app as has bee pro as an ext in ( ben et al . , 123 ) , but thi rem cum and
low - dim emb coo par for eac the coo are obt thr an exp par fun , as wit the par var - ant ( van der maa , 123 ) of t - sne ( van der maa and
ins , sem - sup emb ( wes et al . , 123 ) lea a dir enc whi tak int acc the man hyp thr a nei gra .
a par neu net arc sim lea a man emb and a cla .
the tra cri enc tra set nei to hav sim rep .
the red and tig con num of fre par - ete in suc par met , com to the pur non - par cou , for mod to gen the man sha non - loc ( ben et al . , 123 ) , whi can tra int bet fea and nal per ( van der maa and hin , 123 ) .
how , bas the mod of man on tra set nei rel mig be ris sta in hig dim spa ( spa pop due to the cur of dim ) as e . g .
mos euc nea nei ris hav too lit in com sem .
the nea nei gra is sim not eno den pop to map out sat the wri of the tar man ( ben and mon , 123 ben et al . , 123 ben and lec , 123 ) .
it can als bec pro com to con all pai of dat poi , whi sca qua wit tra set siz .
123 lea to rep non - lin man can we lea a man wit req nea nei sea ? yes , for exa , wit reg aut - enc or pca .
in pca , the sen of the ext com ( the cod ) to inp cha is the sam reg of pos x .
the tan spa is the sam eve alo the lin man .
by con , for a non - lin man , the tan of the man cha as we mov on the man , as ill in fig 123
in non - lin rep - lea alg it is con to thi abo the loc var in the rep as the inp x is var on the man , i . e . , as we mov amo hig - pro con .
as we dis bel , the rst der of the enc the spe the sha of the man ( its tan pla ) aro an exa x lyi on it .
if the den was rea con on the man , and the enc had cap tha , we wou nd the enc der to be non - zer onl in the dir spa by the tan pla .
let us con spa cod in thi lig : par mat w may be int as a dic of inp dir fro whi a dif sub wil be pic to mod the loc tan spa at an x on the man .
tha sub cor to the act , i . e .
non - zer , fea for inp x .
non - zer com hi wil be sen to sma cha of the inp in the dir of the ass wei vec w : , i , whe ina fea are mor lik to be stu at 123 unt a sig dis has tak pla in inp spa .
eve if pai are pic sto , man mus be con bef
obt one tha wei sig on the opt obj .
the loc coo cod ( lcc ) alg ( yu et al . , 123 ) is ver sim to spa cod , but is exp der fro a man per .
usi the sam not as tha of spa cod in eq .
123 , lcc rep reg ter
( cid : 123 ) x ( t ) w h ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
j | yie obj
j | ( cid : 123 ) w : , j x ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
thi is ide to spa cod whe p = 123 , but wit lar p it enc the act anc poi for x ( t ) ( i . e .
the cod vec w : , j wit non - neg |h ( t ) are com to rec x ( t ) ) to be not too far fro x ( t ) , hen the loc asp of the alg .
an imp the con of yu et al .
( 123 ) is to sho tha tha any lip - smo fun : m r den on a smo non man m emb in rdx can be wel app by a glo lin fun wit res to the res cod sch ( i . e .
lin in h ) , whe the acc of the app and req num dh of anc poi dep on dm rat tha dx .
thi res has bee fur ext wit the use of loc tan dir ( yu and zha , 123 ) , as wel as to mul lay ( lin et al . , 123 ) .
the efc non - ite fee - for enc f , use by psd and the aut - enc rev in sec 123 , tha are in the for of eq .
123 or 123 com rep for x wil be onl sig - can sen to inp spa dir ass wit non - sat hid uni ( see e . g .
123 for the jac of a sig lay ) .
the dir to whi the rep is sig sen , lik in the cas of pca or spa cod , may be vie as spa the tan spa of the man at tra poi x .
let us now con
the tan vec to the hig - den man as est by a con aut - enc ( rif et al . , 123 ) .
the ori inp is sho on the top lef .
eac tan vec ( ima on rig sid of rst row ) cor to a pla add def of the ori inp , as ill on the sec row , whe a bit of the 123 sin vec is add to the ori , to for a tra and def ima .
unl in pca , the tan vec are dif for dif inp , bec the est man is hig non - lin .
rif et al .
( 123 ) emp ana in thi lig the sin val spe of the jac ( der of rep - res vec wit res to inp vec ) of a tra cae .
her the svd pro an ord ort bas of mos sen dir .
the spe is sha dec , ind a rel sma num of sig sen - tiv dir .
thi is tak as emp evi tha the cae ind mod the tan spa of a low - dim man .
the lea sin vec for a bas for the tan pla of the est man , as ill in fig 123
the cae cri is bel to ach thi tha to its two opp ter : the iso con pen ,
123 " mni " inp " poi " tan " tha enc the rep to be equ ins to cha in any inp dir , and the rec ter , tha pus dif tra poi ( in par nei ) to hav a dif rep ( so the may be rec acc ) , thu cou the iso con pre - sur onl in dir tan to the man .
ana lea rep thr the len of the spe of the jac and rel it to the not of tan spa of a man is fea , whe the map is dif , and reg of how it was lea , whe as dir enc ( as in aut - enc var ) , or der fro lat var inf ( as in spa cod or rbm ) .
exa low dim man mod ( lik pca ) wou yie non - zer sin val ass to dir alo the man , and exa zer for dir ort to the man .
but in smo mod lik the cae or the rbm we wil ins hav lar ver rel sma sin val ( as opp to non - zer ver exa zer ) .
123 lev the mod tan spa the loc tan spa , at a poi alo the man , can be tho of cap loc val tra tha wer pro in the tra dat .
for exa rif et al .
( 123 ) exa the tan dir ext wit an svd of the jac of cae tra on dig , ima , or tex - doc dat : the app to cor to sma tra - tio or rot for ima or dig , and to sub of wor wit a sam the for doc .
suc ver loc tra alo a dat man are not exp to cha cla ide .
to bui the man tan cla ( mtc ) , rif et al .
( 123 ) the app tec suc as tan dis ( sim et al . , 123 ) and tan pro ( sim et al . , 123 ) , tha wer ini dev to bui cla tha are ins to inp def pro as pri dom kno .
now the tec are app usi the loc lea tan dir ext by a cae , i . e .
not usi any pri dom kno ( exc the bro pri abo the exi of a man ) .
thi app set a new rec for mni dig cla amo pri - kno fre app
123 con bet pro and dir enc mod the sta lik fra for pro mod - els dec the tra cri for mod wit pa - ram in two par : the log - lik log p ( x| ) ( or log p ( x|h , ) wit lat var h ) , and the pri log p ( ) ( or log p ( h| ) + log p ( ) wit lat var ) .
123 psd : a pro int in the cas of the psd alg , a con can be mad bet the abo sta pro vie and the dir enc com gra .
the pro mod of psd is the sam dir gen mod p ( x|h ) of spa cod ( sec 123 . 123 ) , whi onl acc for the dec .
the enc is vie as an app inf mec to
gue p ( h|x ) and ini a map ite inf ( whe the spa pri p ( h ) is tak int acc ) .
how , in psd , the enc is tra joi wit the dec , rat tha sim tak the end res of ite inf as a tar to app .
an int vie to rec the fac is tha the enc is a par app for the map sol of a var low bou on the joi log - lik .
whe map lea is vie as a spe cas of var lea ( whe the app of the joi log - lik is wit a dir dis loc at the map sol ) , the var rec tel us to sim imp the lik ( red rec err ) and im - pro the var app ( red the dis bet the enc out and the lat var val ) .
hen psd sit at the int of pro mod ( wit lat var ) and dir enc met ( whi dir par the map fro inp to rep ) .
rbm als sit at the int bec the par par inc an exp map fro inp to rep , tha to the res con bet hid uni .
how , thi nic pro doe not ext to the nat dee gen , i . e . , dee bol mac , dis in sec 123 .
123 reg aut - enc cap loc str of the den can we als say som abo the pro int - tio of reg aut - enc ? the tra cri doe not t the sta lik fra bec thi wou inv a dat - dep pri .
an int hyp eme to ans tha que , out of rec the res ( vin , 123 ala and ben , 123 ) : the tra cri of reg aut - enc , ins of bei a for of max lik , cor to a dif ind pri , suc as sco mat .
the sco mat con - nec is dis in sec 123 . 123 and has bee sho for a par par of dae and equ gau rbm ( vin , 123 ) .
the wor in ala and ben ( 123 ) gen thi ide to a bro cla of par ( ar - bit enc and dec ) , and sho tha by reg the aut - enc so tha it be con , one obt tha the rec fun and its der est rst and sec der of the und dat - gen den .
thi vie can be exp to suc sam fro aut - enc , as sho in rif et al .
( 123 ) ; ben et al .
( 123 ) .
the pro sam alg are mcm sim to lan mcm , usi not jus the est rst der of the den but als the est man tan so as to sta clo to man of hig den .
thi int con wel wit the geo per - spe int in sec 123
the reg eff ( e . g . , due to a spa reg , a con reg , or the den cri ) ask the lea rep to be as ins as pos to the inp , whi min - ing rec err on the tra exa for the rep to con jus eno inf to dis -
it yie 123 err rat usi the ful mni tra set , wit no
pri def , and no con .
sug by ian goo , per com
rec ) and ( b ) add noi in the dir of the lea sin vec of the rec ( or enc ) jac , cor to tho ass wit sma sec der of the log - den .
123 lea app inf let us now con fro clo how a rep is com in pro mod wit lat var , whe ite inf is req .
the is a com gra ( pos wit ran num gen in som of the nod , in the cas of mcm ) tha map inp to rep - sen , and in the cas of det inf ( e . g . , map inf or var inf ) , tha fun cou be opt dir .
thi is a way to gen psd tha has bee exp in rec wor on pro mod at the int of inf and lea ( bag and bra , 123 gre and lec , 123 gru and bag , 123 sal and lar , 123 sto et al . , 123 eis , 123 ) , whe a cen ide is tha ins of usi a gen inf mec , one can use one tha is lea and is mor efc , tak adv of the spe of the typ of dat on whi it is app .
123 sam cha a tro cha wit man pro mod wit lat var lik mos bol mac var is tha goo mcm sam is req as par of the lea pro , but tha sam bec ext ine ( or unr ) as tra pro bec the mod of the lea dis bec sha , mak mix bet mod ver slo .
whe ini dur tra a lea as - sig mas alm uni , as tra pro , its ent dec , app the ent of the tar dis as mor exa and mor com are pro .
acc to our man and nat clu pri of sec 123 , the tar dis has sha mod ( man ) sep by ext low den are .
mix the bec mor dif bec mcm met , by the ver nat , ten to mak sma ste to nea hig - pro con .
thi is ill in fig 123
rec fun r ( x ) ( gre ) lea by a hig - cap aut on 123 - dim inp , min rec err at tra exa x ( t ) ( r ( x ( t ) ) in red ) whi try to be as con as pos oth .
the dot lin is the ide rec ( whi mig be obt wit the reg ) .
the blu arr sho the vec eld of r ( x ) x poi tow hig den pea est by the mod , and est the sco ( log - den der ) .
gui the .
the sol is tha var alo the hig - den man are pre whi oth var are com : the rec fun sho be as con as pos whi rep tra exa , i . e . , poi nea a tra exa sho be map to tha tra exa ( fig 123 ) .
the rec fun sho map an inp tow the nea poi man , i . e . , the dif bet rec and inp is a vec ali wit the est sco ( the der of the log - den wit res to the inp ) .
the sco can be zer on the man ( whe rec err is als zer ) , at loc max of the log - den , but it can als be zer at loc min .
it mea tha we can equ low rec err wit hig est pro .
the sec der of the log - den cor to the rst der of the rec fun , and on the man ( whe the rst der is 123 ) , the ind the tan dir of the man ( whe the rst der rem nea 123 ) .
sam fro reg aut - enc ( rif et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ) : eac mcm ste add to cur sta x the noi mos in the dir of the est man - ifo tan pla h and pro bac tow the man ( hig - den reg ) by per a rec ste .
as ill in fig 123 , the bas ide of the aut - enc sam alg in rif et al .
( 123 ) ; ben et al .
( 123 ) is to mak mcm mov whe one ( a ) mov tow the man by fol the den gra ( i . e . , app a
top : ear dur tra , mcm mix eas bet mod bec the est dis has hig ent and put eno mas eve for sma - ste mov ( mcm ) to go fro mod to mod .
bot : lat on , tra rel on goo mix can sta bec est mod are sep by wid low - den des .
ben et al .
( 123 ) sug tha dee rep cou hel mix bet suc wel sep mod , bas on bot the arg and on emp evi .
the ide is tha if hig - lev rep dis bet
x " r ( x ) " x12 " x12 " x12 " 123 " the und abs fac , the sma ste in thi abs spa ( e . g . , swa fro one cat to ano ) can eas be don by mcm .
the hig - lev rep can the be map bac to the inp spa in ord to obt inp - lev sam , as in the dee bel net ( dbn ) sam alg ( hin et al . , 123 ) .
thi has bee dem bot wit dbn and wit the new pro alg for sam fro con and den aut - enc ( rif et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ) .
thi obs alo doe not suf to sol the pro of tra a dbn or a dbm , but it may pro a cru ing , and it mak it pos to con suc sam fro dee mod tra by pro tha do not req an mcm , lik the sta reg aut - enc use in rif et al .
( 123 ) .
123 eva and mon per it is alw pos to eva a fea lea alg in ter of its use wit res to a par tas ( e . g .
obj cla ) , wit a pre tha is fed or ini wit the lea fea .
in pra , we do thi by sav the fea lea ( e . g .
at reg int dur tra , to per ear sto ) and tra a che cla on top ( suc as a lin cla ) .
how , tra the nal cla can be a sub com ove ( e . g . , sup ne - tun a dee neu net tak usu mor tra ite tha the fea lea its ) , so we may wan to avo hav to tra a cla for ev - ery tra ite of the uns lea and eve hyp - par set .
mor imp thi may giv an inc eva of the fea ( wha wou hap for oth tas ? ) .
all the iss mot the use of met to mon and eva pur uns per .
thi is rat eas wit all the aut - enc var ( wit som cau out bel ) and rat dif wit the und gra mod suc as the rbm and bol mac .
for aut - enc and spa cod var , tes set re - con err can rea be com , but by its may be mis bec lar cap ( e . g . , mor fea , mor tra tim ) ten to sys lea to low rec err , eve on the tes set .
hen it can be use rel for sel mos hyp - par .
on the oth han , den rec err is cle imm to thi pro , so tha sol the pro for dae .
bas on the con bet dae and cae unc in ben et al .
( 123 ) ; ala and ben ( 123 ) , thi imm can be ext to dae , but not to the hyp - par con the amo of noi or of con .
for rbm and som ( not too dee ) bol mac , one opt is the use of ann imp sam ( mur - ray and sal , 123 ) in ord to est the par fun ( and thu the tes log - lik ) .
not tha thi est - mat can hav hig var and tha it bec les rel ( var bec too lar ) as the mod bec mor int , wit lar wei , mor non - lin , sha mod and a sha pro den fun ( see our pre dis in sec 123 ) .
ano int and rec pro opt for rbm is to tra the par fun dur tra ( des et al . , 123 ) , whi cou
be use for ear sto and red the cos of ord ais .
for toy rbm ( e . g . , 123 hid uni or les , or 123 inp or les ) , the exa log - lik can als be com ana , and thi can be a goo way to deb and ver som pro of int .
123 glo tra of dee mod one of the mos int cha rai by dee arc - tec is : how sho we joi tra all the lev ? in the pre sec and in sec 123 we hav onl dis how sin - lay mod cou be com to for a dee mod .
her we con joi tra of all the lev and the dif tha may ari .
123 the cha of tra dee arc hig - lev abs mea mor non - lin .
it mea tha two nea inp con may be int ver dif bec a few sur det cha the und sem , whe mos oth cha in the sur det wou not cha the und sem .
the rep - tio ass wit inp man may be com bec the map fro inp to rep may hav to unf and dis inp man tha gen hav com sha int spa whe dis are muc sim , whe rel bet fac are sim , may eve lin or inv man ( con ) ind .
our exp is tha mod the joi dis bet hig - lev abs and con sho be muc eas in the sen of req muc les dat to lea .
the har par is lea a goo rep tha doe thi unf and dis .
thi may be at the pri of a mor dif tra pro , pos inv ill - con and loc min .
it is onl sin 123 tha res hav ser inv - tig way to tra dee arc , to the exc of the con net ( lec et al . , 123 ) .
the rst rea ( sec 123 ) was tha uns or sup lay - wis tra was eas , and tha thi cou be tak adv of by sta sin - lay mod int dee one .
it is int to ask why doe the lay uns - vis pre - tra pro som hel a sup lea ( erh et al . , 123 ) .
the see to be a mor gen pri at pla 123 of gui the tra of int - med rep , whi may be eas tha try to lea it all in one go .
thi is nic rel to the cur lea ide ( ben et al . , 123 ) , tha it may be muc eas to lea sim con rst and the bui hig - lev one on top of sim one .
thi is als coh wit the suc of sev dee lea alg tha pro som suc gui for int rep , sup emb ( wes et al . , 123 ) .
the que of why uns pre - tra cou be hel was ext stu ( erh et al . , 123 ) , try the ans int a reg eff and an opt eff .
the reg eff is cle fro the exp whe the sta rbm or den aut - enc are use to ini a sup cla neu net ( erh et al . , 123 ) .
it may sim com fro the
fir sug to us by leo bot
use of uns lea to bia the lea dyn and ini it in the bas of att of a goo loc min ( of the tra cri ) , whe goo is in ter of gen err .
the und hyp exp by thi pro is tha som of the fea or lat fac tha are goo at cap the lea var in the inp dis are als goo at cap the var in the tar out ran var of int ( e . g . , cla ) .
the opt eff is mor dif to tea out bec the top two lay of a dee neu net can jus ove the tra set whe the low lay com use fea or not , but the are sev ind tha opt the low lev wit res to a sup tra cri can be
one suc ind is tha cha the num con - dit of the opt pro can hav a pro imp on the joi tra of a dee arc , for ex - amp by cha the ini ran and cha the typ of non - lin use ( glo and ben , 123 ) , muc mor so tha wit sha arc .
one hyp to exp som of the dif in the opt of dee arc is cen on the sin val of the jac mat ass wit the tra fro the fea at one lev int the fea at the nex lev ( glo and ben , 123 ) .
if the sin val are all sma ( les tha 123 ) , the the map is con in eve dir and gra wou van whe pro bac thr man lay .
thi is a pro alr dis for rec neu net ( ben et al . , 123 ) , whi can be see as ver dee net wit sha par at eac lay , whe unf in tim .
thi opt dif has mot the exp of sec - ord met for dee arc and rec net , in par hes - fre sec - ord met ( mar , 123 mar and sut , 123 ) .
uns pre - tra has als bee pro to hel tra rec net and tem rbm ( sut et al . , 123 ) , i . e . , at eac tim ste the is a loc sig to gui the dis of goo fea to cap in the sta var : mod wit the cur sta ( as hid uni ) the joi dis of the pre sta and the cur inp .
nat gra ( ama , 123 ) met tha can be app to net wit mil of par ( i . e .
wit goo sca pro ) hav als bee pro ( le rou et al . , 123 pas and ben , 123 ) .
cho et al .
( 123 ) pro to use ada lea rat for rbm tra , alo wit a nov and int ide for a gra est tha tak int acc the inv of the mod to ipp hid uni bit and inv sig of cor wei vec .
at lea one stu ind tha the cho of ini ( to mak the jac of eac lay clo to 123 acr all its sin val ) cou sub red the tra dif of dee net ( glo and ben , 123 ) and thi is coh wit the suc of the ini pro of ech sta net ( jae , 123 ) , as rec stu by sut ( 123 ) .
the are als sev exp res ( glo and ben , 123 glo et al . , 123 nai and hin , 123 ) sho tha the cho of hid uni non - lin cou inu bot tra and gen per , wit
par int res obt wit spa rec uni ( jar et al . , 123 nai and hin , 123 glo et al . , 123 kri et al . , 123 ) .
an old ide reg the ill - con iss wit neu net is tha of sym bre : par of the slo of con may be due to man uni mov tog ( lik she ) and all try to red the out err for the sam exa .
by ini wit spa wei ( mar , 123 ) or by usi oft sat non - lin ( suc as rec as max - poo uni ) , gra onl ow alo a few pat , whi may hel hid uni to spe mor qui .
ano pro ide to imp the con of neu net tra is to nul the ave val and slo of eac hid uni out ( rai et al . , 123 ) , and pos loc nor mag as wel ( jar et al . , 123 ) .
the deb sti rag bet usi onl met suc as sto gra des and usi sec - ord met on lar min ( of sev tho exa ) ( mar , 123 le et al . , 123 ) , wit a var of sto gra des rec win an opt cha 123
tha wit pro
fin , sev rec res exp lar qua lab dat sug and cho of non - lin , ver dee pur sup net can be tra suc wit any lay pre - tra ( cir et al . , 123 glo et al . , 123 sei et al . , 123 kri et al . , 123 ) .
res rep tha in suc con , lay uns pre - tra lit or no imp ove pur sup lea fro scr whe tra for lon eno .
thi tha uns pre - tra act as a pri , whi may be les nec whe ver lar qua of lab dat are ava , but beg the que of why thi had not bee dis ear .
the lat res rep in thi res ( kri et al . , 123 ) are par int bec the all to dra red the err rat of obj rec on a ben ( the 123 - cla ima tas ) whe man mor tra com vis app had bee eva the mai tec tha all thi suc inc the fol : efc gpu tra all one to tra lon ( mor tha 123 mil vis of exa ) , an asp rst rep by lee et al .
( 123 ) ; cir et al .
( 123 ) , lar num of lab exa , art tra exa ( see sec 123 ) , a lar num of tas ( 123 or 123 cla for ima ) , con arc wit max - poo ( see sec 123 for ini ( dis abo ) , car par upd and ada lea rat heu , fea nor ( acr fea ) , and a new dro tri bas on inj str bin mul noi on hid uni .
thi tri is sim to the bin noi inj use at eac lay of a sta of den aut - enc .
fut wor is hop goi to hel ide whi of the ele mat mos , how to gen the acr
a lar var of tas and arc , and in par con whe mos exa are unl , i . e . , inc an uns com in the tra cri .
123 joi tra of dee bol mac we now con the pro of joi tra of all lay of a spe uns mod , the dee bol mac ( dbm ) .
whe muc pro ( alb wit man una - swe que ) has bee mad on joi tra all the lay of dee arc usi bac - pro gra ( i . e . , mos in the sup set ) , muc les wor has bee don on the pur uns cou , e . g .
wit dbm
not how tha one cou hop tha the suc tec des in the pre sec cou be app to uns lea alg .
lik the rbm , the dbm is ano par sub of the bol mac fam of mod whe the uni are aga arr in lay .
how unl the rbm , the dbm pos mul lay of hid uni , wit uni in odd - num lay bei con ind giv eve - num lay , and vic - ver .
wit res to the bol ene fun of eq .
123 , the dbm cor to set u = 123 and a spa con str in bot v and w .
we can mak the str of the dbm mor exp by spe its ene fun .
for the mod wit two hid lay it is giv as :
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ; ) = vt w h ( 123 ) h ( 123 ) t h ( 123 ) d ( 123 ) t
h ( 123 ) bt v ,
wit = ( w , v , d ( 123 ) , d ( 123 ) , b ) .
the dbm can als be cha - act as a bip gra bet two set of ver , for by odd and eve - num lay ( wit v : = h ( 123 ) ) .
123 . 123 mea - eld app inf a key poi of dep fro the rbm is tha the pos - ter dis ove the hid uni ( giv the vis ) is no lon tra , due to the int bet the hid uni .
sal and hin ( 123 ) res to a mea - eld app to the pos .
spe , the cas of a mod wit two hid lay , we wis to
app p ( cid : 123 ) h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) | v ( cid : 123 ) wit the fac dis qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) = ( cid : 123 ) n12 tha the kl div kl ( cid : 123 ) p ( cid : 123 ) h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) | v ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) qv ( h12 , h12 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) p ( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log p ( v ) > l ( qv ) ( cid : 123 )
is min or equ , tha a low bou to the log lik is max :
qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log
max thi low - bou wit res to the mea - eld dis qv ( h12 , h12 ) ( by set der to zer ) yie the fol mea eld upd equ :
i + d ( 123 )
k + d ( 123 )
joi tra of all the lay of a dee bel net is muc mor
cha bec of the muc har inf pro inv .
not how the abo equ ost loo lik a xed poi rec neu net , i . e . , wit con inp .
in the sam way tha an rbm can be ass wit a sim aut - enc , the abo mea - eld upd equ for the dbm can be ass wit a rec aut - enc .
in tha cas the tra cri inv the rec err at the las or at con tim ste .
thi typ of mod has bee exp by sav ( 123 ) and seu ( 123 ) and sho to do a bet job at den tha ord aut - enc .
ite eq .
( 123 - 123 ) unt con yie the q par -
ete of the var pos pha of eq
log p ( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
( cid : 123 ) e dbm ( cid : 123 ) e dbm
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
lea pro lea the neg pha unt , whi can thu be est thr sml or con div ( hin , 123 ) as in the rbm cas .
123 . 123 tra dee bol mac the maj dif bet tra a dbm and an rbm ins of max the lik dir , we ins cho par to max the low - bou on the lik giv in eq .
the sml - bas alg for max thi low - bou is as fol :
123 ) cla the vis uni to a tra exa .
123 ) ite ove eq .
( 123 - 123 ) unt con .
123 ) gen neg pha sam v , h ( 123 ) and h ( 123 ) 123 ) com l ( qv ) / usi the val obt in ste
123 ) fin , upd the mod par wit a ste of
app sto gra asc .
whi the abo pro app to be a sim ext of the hig eff sml sch for tra rbm , as we dem in des et al .
( 123 ) , thi pro see vul to fal in poo loc min whi lea man hid uni eff dea ( not sig dif fro its ran ini wit sma nor ) .
the fai of the sml joi tra str was not by sal and hin ( 123 ) .
as an alt , the pro a gre lay - wis tra str .
thi pro con in pre - tra the lay of the dbm , in muc the sam way as the dee bel net : i . e .
by sta rbm and tra eac lay to ind mod the out of the pre lay .
a nal joi ne - tun is don fol the abo sml - bas pro .
123 bui - in inv it is wel und tha inc pri dom kno - edg hel mac lea .
exp goo str for doi so is a ver imp res ave .
how , if we are to adv our und of cor mac lea pri , it is imp tha we kee com bet pre fai and mai a cle awa of the pri
dom kno use by dif esp whe com the per on ben pro .
we hav so far onl pre alg tha exp onl gen ind bia for hig dim thu mak the pot app to any hig dim pro .
the mos pre app to inc pri kno is to han - des bet fea to fee a gen cla , and has bee use ext in com vis ( e . g .
( low , 123 ) ) .
her , we rat foc on how bas dom kno of the inp , in par its top str ( e . g .
bit ima hav a 123 str ) , may be use to lea bet fea .
123 gen tra exa gen per is usu imp by pro a lar qua of rep dat .
thi can be ach by gen new exa by app sma ran def - mat to the ori tra exa , usi def tha are kno not to cha the tar var of int , e . g . , an obj cla is inv to sma tra of ima suc as tra , rot , sca , or she .
thi old app ( bai , 123 ) has bee rec app wit gre suc in the wor of cir et al .
( 123 ) who use an efc gpu imp ( 123 spe ) to tra a sta - dar but lar dee mul per on def mni dig .
usi bot afn and ela def ( sim et al . , 123 ) , wit pla old sto gra des , the rea a rec 123 cla err rat .
123 con and poo ano pow app is bas on eve mor bas kno of mer the top str of the inp dim .
by thi we mea e . g . , the 123 lay of pix in ima or aud spe , the 123 str of vid , the 123 seq str of tex or of tem seq in gen .
bas on suc str , one can den loc rec eld ( hub and wie , 123 ) , so tha eac low - lev fea wil be com fro onl a sub of the inp : a nei in the top ( e . g .
a sub - ima at a giv pos ) .
thi top loc con cor to a lay hav a ver spa wei mat wit non - zer onl all for top loc con .
com the ass mat pro can of cou be mad muc mor efc tha hav to han a den mat , in add to the sta gai fro a muc sma num of fre par .
in dom wit suc top str , sim inp pat are lik to app at dif pos , and nea val ( e . g .
con fra or nea pix ) are lik to hav str dep tha are als imp to mod the dat .
in fac the dep can be exp to dis the top ( le rou et al . , 123 ) , i . e .
rec a reg gri of pix out of a set of vec wit any ord inf , e . g .
aft the ele hav bee arb shu in the sam way for all exa .
thu a sam loc fea com is lik to be rel at all tra po - sit of the rec eld .
hen the ide of swe suc a loc fea ext ove the top : thi cor to a con , and tra an inp int a sim sha
fea map .
equ to swe , thi may be see as sta but dif pos rep fea ext tha all sha the sam par .
thi is at the hea of con net ( lec et al . , 123 , 123 ) whi hav bee app bot to obj rec and to ima seg ( tur et al . , 123 ) .
ano hal of the con arc is tha val com by the sam fea det app at sev nei inp loc are the sum thr a poo ope , typ tak the max or the sum .
thi con the res poo fea lay som deg of inv to inp tra , and thi sty of arc ( alt sel fea ext and inv - cre poo ) has bee the ba - sis of con net , the neo ( fuk , 123 ) and hma ( rie and pog , 123 ) mod , and arg to be the arc use by mam bra for obj rec ( rie and pog , 123 ser et al . , 123 dic et al . , 123 ) .
the out of a poo uni wil be the sam irr of whe a spe fea is loc ins its poo reg .
emp the use of poo see to con sig to imp cla - cat acc in obj cla tas ( lec et al . , 123 bou et al . , 123 , 123 ) .
a suc var of poo con to spa cod is l12 poo ( hyv et al . , 123 kav et al . , 123 le et al . , 123 ) , for whi the poo out is the squ roo of the pos wei sum of squ of lte out .
ide , we wou lik to gen fea - poo so as to lea wha fea sho be poo tog , e . g .
as suc don in sev pap ( hyv and hoy , 123 kav et al . , 123 le et al . , 123 ran and hin , 123 cou et al . , 123 coa and ng , 123 gre et al . , 123 ) .
in thi way , the poo out lea to be inv to the var cap by the spa of the fea poo .
the sim app for lea a con lay in an uns fas is pat - bas tra : sim fee a gen uns fea lea alg wit loc pat ext at ran pos of the inp .
the res fea ext can the be swi ove the inp to pro the con fea map .
tha map may be use as a new inp for the nex lay , and the ope rep to thu lea and sta sev lay .
suc an app was rec use wit ind sub ana ( le et al . , 123 ) on 123 vid blo , rea the sta - of - the - art on hol , ucf , kth and you act rec dat .
sim ( coa and ng , 123 ) com sev fea lea wit pat - bas tra and rea sta - of - the - art res on sev cla ben .
int - est , in thi wor per was alm as goo wit ver sim k - mea clu as wit mor sop fea lea .
we how con tha thi is the cas onl bec pat are rat low dim ( com to the dim of a who ima ) .
a lar dat mig pro suf cov of the spa of e . g .
edg pre in 123 123 pat , so tha a dis rep is not abs nec .
ano pla exp for thi
suc is tha the clu ide in eac ima pat are the poo int a his of clu cou ass wit a lar sub - ima .
whe the out of a reg clu is a one - hot non - dis cod , thi his is its a dis rep , and the sof k - mea ( coa and ng , 123 ) rep all not onl the nea lte but als its nei to be act .
con and til - con tra it is pos to dir tra lar con lay usi an uns cri .
an ear app ( jai and seu , 123 ) tra a sta but dee con mlp on the tas of den ima , i . e .
as a dee , con , den aut - enc .
con ver of the rbm or its ext hav als bee dev ( des and ben , 123 lee et al . , 123 tay et al . , 123 ) as wel as a pro max - poo ope bui int con dee net ( lee et al . , 123 , b; kri , 123 ) .
oth uns fea lea app tha wer ada to the con set inc psd ( kav et al . , 123 , 123 jar et al . , 123 hen et al . , 123 ) , a con ver of spa cod cal dec net ( zei et al . , 123 ) , top ica ( le et al . , 123 ) , and mpo tha kiv and wil ( 123 ) app to mod nat tex .
gre and lec ( 123 ) ; le et al .
( 123 ) als dem the tec of til - con , whe par are sha onl bet fea ext who rec eld are k ste awa ( so the one loo at imm nei loc are not sha ) .
thi all poo uni to be inv to mor tha jus tra , and is a hyb bet con net and ear neu net wit loc con but no wei sha ( lec , 123 , 123 ) .
alt to poo alt , one can als use exp kno of the exp inv exp mat to den tra - for tha are rob to a kno fam of inp def - mat , usi so - cal sca ope ( mal , 123 bru and mal , 123 ) , whi can be com in a way int ana to dee con net and wav .
lik con net , the sca ope alt two typ of ope : con and poo ( as a nor ) .
unl con net , app kee at eac lev all of the inf abo the inp ( in a way tha can be inv ) , and aut yie a ver spa ( but ver hig - dim ) rep .
an - oth dif is tha the lte are not lea but ins set so as to gua tha a pri spe inv are rob ach .
jus a few lev wer suf to ach imp res on sev ben dat .
123 tem coh and slo fea the pri of ide slo mov / cha fac in tem / spa dat has bee inv by man ( bec and hin , 123 wis and sej , 123 hur and hyv , 123 kor et al . , 123 cad and ols , 123 ) as a pri for ndi use rep
par thi ide has bee app to ima seq and as an exp for why v12 sim and com cel beh the way the do .
a goo ove can be fou in hur and hyv ( 123 ) ; ber and wis ( 123 ) .
mor rec , tem coh has bee suc exp in dee arc to mod vid ( mob et al . , 123 ) .
it was als fou tha tem coh dis - ere vis fea sim to tho obt by ord uns fea lea ( ber and ben , 123 ) , and a tem coh pen has bee com wit a tra cri for uns fea lea ( zou et al . , 123 ) , spa aut - enc wit l12 reg , in thi cas , yie imp cla per .
the tem coh pri can be exp in sev the sim bei the squ dif bet fea val at tim t and t + 123
oth pla tem - ral coh pri inc the fol .
fir , ins of pen the squ cha , pen the abs val ( or a sim spa pen ) wou sta tha mos of the tim the cha sho be exa 123 , whi wou int mak sen for the rea - lif fac tha sur us .
sec , one wou exp tha ins of jus bei slo cha , dif fac cou be ass wit the own dif tim sca .
the spe of the tim sca cou thu bec a hin to dis exp fac .
thi , one wou exp tha som fac sho rea be rep by a gro of num ( suc as x , y , and z pos of som obj in spa and the pos par of hin et al .
( 123 ) ) rat tha by a sin sca , and tha the gro ten to mov tog .
str spa pen ( kav et al . , 123 jen et al . , 123 bac et al . , 123 gre et al . , 123 ) cou be use for thi pur .
123 alg to dis fac of var the goa of bui inv fea is to rem sen of the rep to dir of var in the dat tha are uni to the tas at han .
how it is oft the cas tha the goa of fea ext is the dis or sep of man dis but inf fac in the dat , e . g . , in a vid of peo : sub ide , act per , sub pos rel to the cam , etc .
in thi sit , the met of gen inv fea , suc as fea - poo , may be ina .
the pro of bui inv fea can be see as con of two ste .
fir , low - lev fea are rec tha acc for the dat .
sec , sub of the low lev fea are poo tog to for hig - lev inv fea , exe by the poo and sub lay of con neu net .
the inv rep for by the poo fea off an inc win on the dat as the det rep of the low - lev fea is abs awa in the poo pro .
whi we wou lik hig - lev fea to be mor abs and exh gre inv , we hav lit con ove wha inf is los thr poo .
wha we rea wou lik is for a par fea set to be inv to the irr fea and dis the rel fea .
unf , it is oft dif to det a pri whi set of fea wil ult be rel to the tas at han .
an int app to tak adv of som of the fac of var kno to exi in the dat is the tra aut - enc ( hin et al . , 123 ) : ins of a sca pat det ( e . g , .
cor to the pro of pre of a par for in the inp ) one can thi of the fea as org in gro tha inc bot a pat det and pos par tha spe att of the det pat .
in ( hin et al . , 123 ) , wha ass a pri is tha pai of exa ( or con one ) are obs wit an ass val for the cor cha in the pos par .
for exa , an ani tha con its eye kno wha cha to its ocu mot sys wer app whe goi fro one ima on its ret to the nex .
in tha wor , it is als ass tha the pos cha are the sam for all the pat det , and thi mak sen for glo cha suc as ima tra and cam geo cha .
ins , we wou lik to dis the pos par and att tha sho be ass wit eac fea det , wit hav to spe ahe of tim wha the sho be , for the to be the sam for all fea , and hav to nec obs the cha in all of the pos par or att .
the app tak rec in the man tan cla - sie , dis in sec 123 , is int in thi res .
wit any sup or pri kno , it nds pro loc fac of var ( tan vec to the man , ext fro a cae , int as loc val inp def - mat ) .
hig - lev fea are sub enc to be inv to the fac of var , so tha the mus dep on oth cha .
in a sen thi app is dis val loc def alo the dat man fro oth , mor dra cha , ass to oth fac of var suc as tho tha aff cla ide . 123
one sol to the pro of inf los tha wou t wit the fea - poo par , is to con man ove poo of fea bas on the sam low - lev fea set .
suc a str wou hav the pot lea a red set of inv fea tha may not cau sig los of inf .
how it is not obv lea pri cou be app tha can ens the fea are inv whi mai as muc inf as pos .
whi a dee bel net or a dee bol mac ( as dis in sec 123 and 123 res ) wit two hid lay wou , in pri , be abl to pre inf int the poo sec hid lay , the is no gua tha the sec lay fea are mor inv tha the low - lev rst lay fea .
how , the is som emp evi tha the sec lay of the dbn ten to dis mor inv tha the rst lay ( erh et al . , 123 ) .
a mor pri app , fro the per of en - sur a mor rob com fea rep , can be con by rec the dis of fea thr the len of its gen equ fea com - pos .
sin man uns lea alg hav a
the cha tha aff cla ide mig , in inp spa , act be of sim mag to loc def , but not fol alo the man , i . e .
cro zon of low den .
gen int ( or a way to rec inp fro the hig - lev rep ) , the gen per can pro ins int how to thi abo dis fac - tor .
the maj of the mod cur use to con inv fea hav the int tha the low - lev fea lin com to con the dat . 123 thi is a fai rud for of fea com wit sig lim .
for exa , it is not pos to lin com a fea wit a gen tra ( suc as tra ) to gen a tra ver of the fea .
nor can we eve con a gen col fea bei lin com wit a gra - sca sti pat to gen a col pat .
it wou see tha if we are to tak the not of dis ser we req a ric int of fea tha tha off by sim lin com .
thi rev of rep lea and dee lea has cov thr maj and app dis app : the pro mod ( bot the dir kin suc as spa cod and the und kin suc as bol mac ) , the rec - bas alg rel to aut - enc , and the geo mot man - lea app .
dra con bet the app is cur a ver act are of res and is lik to con to pro mod and met tha tak adv of the rel str of eac par .
pra con and gui .
one of the cri add to art neu net and dee lea alg - rit is tha the hav man hyp - par and var and tha exp the con and arc is an art .
thi has mot an ear boo on the tri of the tra ( orr and mul , 123 ) of whi lec et al .
( 123 ) is sti rel for tra dee arc , in par wha con ini , ill - con and sto gra des .
a goo and mor mod com of goo tra pra , par ada to tra rbm , is pro in hin ( 123 ) , whi a sim gui ori mor tow dee neu net can be fou in ben ( 123 ) , bot of whi are par of a nov ver of the abo boo .
rec wor on aut hyp - par sea ( ber and ben , 123 ber et al . , 123 sno et al . , 123 ) is als mak it mor con , efc
inc gen ai - lev pri .
we hav cov man hig - lev gen pri tha we bel cou bri mac lea clo to ai by imp rep lea .
man of the pri rel to the ass exi of mul und fac of var , who var are in som sen ort to eac oth .
the are exp to be org at mul lev of abs , hen the nee for dee arc , whi als hav sta adv - tag bec the all to re - use par in a com - nat efc way .
onl a few of the fac wou
as an asi , if we are giv onl the val of the hig - lev poo fea , we can acc rec the dat bec we do not kno how to app cre for the poo fea val to the low - lev fea .
thi is sim the gen ver of the con of the los of inf cau by poo .
typ be rel for any par exa , jus spa of rep .
the fac are exp to be rel to sim ( e . g . , lin ) dep , wit sub of the exp dif ran var of int ( inp , tas ) and var in str way in tim and spa ( tem and spa coh ) .
we exp fut suc app of rep lea to ren and inc tha lis of pri , and to inc mos of the ins of foc on onl one .
res in tra cri tha bet tak the pri int acc are lik to mov us clo to the lon - ter obj of dis lea alg tha can dis the und exp fac .
inf .
we ant tha met bas on dir par a rep fun wil inc mor and mor of the ite typ of com one nds in the inf pro of pro lat - var mod .
the is alr mov in the oth dir , wit pro - abi lat - var mod exp app inf - enc mec tha are the lea ( i . e . , pro a par des of the rep fun ) .
a maj app of pro mod is tha the sem of the lat var are cle and thi all a cle sep of the pro of mod ( cho the ene fun ) , inf ( est p ( h|x ) ) , and lea ( opt the par ) , usi gen too in eac cas .
on the oth han , doi app inf and not tak tha app - mat int acc exp in the app opt for lea cou hav det eff , hen the app of lea app inf .
mor fun , the is the que of the mul of the pos p ( h|x ) .
if the are exp man pro con of val of the fac hi tha can exp x , the we see to be stu wit ver poo inf , eit foc on a sin mod ( map inf ) , ass som kin of str fac ( as in var inf ) or usi an mcm tha can vis eno mod of p ( h|x ) .
wha we pro as foo for tho is the ide of dro the req of an exp rep of the pos and set for an imp rep tha exp pot str in p ( h|x ) in ord to rep it com : eve tho p ( h|x ) may hav an exp num of mod , it may be pos to rep it wit a sma set of num .
for exa , con com a det fea rep f ( x ) tha imp cap the inf abo a hig mul - mod p ( h|x ) , in the sen tha all the que ( e . g .
mak som pre abo som tar con ) tha can be ask fro p ( h|x ) can als be ans fro f ( x ) .
opt .
muc rem to be don to bet und - sta the suc and fai of tra dee arc , bot in the sup cas ( wit man rec suc ) and the uns cas ( whe muc mor wor nee to be don ) .
alt reg eff can be imp on sma dat , the eff tha per on ver lar dat sug som opt iss are inv .
are the mor due to loc min ( we now kno the are hug num of the ) and the dyn of the tra pro ? or are the due mos to ill - con and may be han by app sec - ord met ? the bas que
rem una and des muc mor stu .
