ne ng - rm al of ne ng ch is to ce ds at re le to ly ex ks , ch as on ( on , on ) , ea - ng , nt ol , nd er ly nt rs .
we ue at in er to ss rd is al , he ne ng ty st or to er ms at an rn ly ex ns , th in - al ed or or ge , nd th al an on .
we nt al nd al ce ng at ny ar es to on - ic ng , ly el ds , re ly im - ed in ir ty to rn ex gh - al ns .
ur is es on wo ms .
st , el es re ow es , in ch ne ge er of le te rs is ed by a le er of le ts .
we ue at ow es an be ry ef - nt in ms of ed er of al ts nd es .
ec - nd , we ze a on of el es th a al el , ed to he se of ty , at es to ed , ed ( ld rn - ng ) nd mi - ed el es .
ng al ts on nt ge on ks , el ds re ed th ep es , in ch er - el es or ts re ly ed to re ab - ct nd er - el ns .
we ue at ep es ve he al to ze in on - al ys , i . e . , nd te rs , nd at is is al in er to ke ss on he nd of ex ks ed or al ce .
al ne ng ch as ed a ch et of ic nd he - al ls er he st es , nd as en se to a er of al nd ic ns .
er , me of he al ls of is ld of ch re - in ve .
a ng - rm al of ne ng ch is to ce ds at ll le ly nt ts le of ng ex rs th al an on nd or ge .
es of ch ex rs re nd in al on , ry on , nd al ge
he in ve of is er is to ss al ns of er - in es of ng ms , nd nt ds es at me se ns .
se ns se om wo ts of se ms : ow ar - re , nd al rs .
we ld ke ur ng ms to be nt in ee ts :
al : er of ns ng ng nd ng on ,
al : er of es ed or od on , ly la -
ed ta , nd
an nt : nt of an or ry to or he hm to a sk , i . e . , fy he or ge lt to he el re ng .
( ly , or ly gh ng ns th a an - in - he - op ) .
he st er ry as en us le on - ic ng ms at an rn ny us ut - ut ng , ed gh ng es nd ng ta .
a al on is ow nt re me of he ar rn - ng ds en ey re ed to ex al ks , ch a al rn on th ed ra - ss ty .
he er ly es on al nd al cy .
ng le ng ms , we sh a on en ow es , nd ep es .
ow es re st ed by rn el es ( pf et al . , 23 ) , ch as rt or es ( ms ) ( er et al . , 23 , es nd ik , 23 ) .
ey st of ne er of ed el ns , se le is to ch he ng rn th es ex - ed om a ng et , ed by a ar on of he ng es .
ce he es re ed om he ng et , he st er of a el ma - ne an be en as ng ed in a at al ed ay .
he ly ts ct to ed ng re he ts of he ar na -
ep es re ps st ed by ti - er al ks th al en rs .
in al ms , ep es re ed of ul - le rs of ed on - ar es .
he rs of ry le re
in ms ly a et of he es re ed as es ( he rt rs ) , ut is is iv -
nt to ng ch ts of he nd er re on - ro .
ct to ng .
ep es ly ar in he ne ng ra - e; he st ty of al rk ch as ed on ow es th a le en er , se of he ty of ng ks th re an 23 or 23 rs ( ro , 23 ) .
le ns de rk on al ks ( un et al . , 23 , un et al . , 23 ) , nd nt rk on ep ef ks ( on et al . , 23 ) .
le ow es ve es , ch as he ty to se ex ss ns , we ow at ey so ve ns in he cy of he en - on of in es of on es .
gh a er of ms ow at in ow es ( an el es , 23 - en er al ts , tc ) an te ny on th ry on , ey ke no ts as to he cy of he on .
ly , ep es an , in in - le , nt in es of ns re ly ( nd th er ng es ) an ow es , ut he ed ss ns re st ys on
he er ts th a rt on ut sk - ic us re al es of ng ms .
gh he an in is es ed as an ex - ce of of a al - se ng hm , es an be ng : he so - ed no - ee - ch ms ( rt , 23 ) , as ll as ks ry nd nt ns or cy ( ik , 23 , ee ) , ly ow at re is no ch ng as a ly al ng hm .
ll al ng al - ms re ed th me rt of it or it or at rs me ns er rs .
ce a st or a ly al ng od is ed to re , ne is ed to ng or ng ls at re ll ed or a ar pe of ks .
or us , gh on he st of ul ks re se at st ls an er - rm ly , ch as on nd ol , as ll as ks at er ls nd ns an do ch as ng - rm on , ng , ng , nd ge ng .
in rt , ur im is to ok or ng ds at ng us er to an ly nt nt .
at rs he st in is or is ow ef - ly ur el an re nd nt he ed ge .
he cy is ed ng ee in ns : he nt of ng ta ed ( pe - ly ed ta ) , he nt of ng es ed to ch a en el of ce , nd st ly , he nt of an rt ed to fy he or ge lt to he el re ng ( ly , or ly ) is er es he ng es of us ng ls , in ar el es , th ct to se ee ns , in ar he st wo .
el es re on - ic ng ls , ch ke ly ak mp - ns on he rm of he on f ( ) to be ed .
by on - ic ds we an ds ch ow he ty of he on to se ( e . g . , by er - er on ) en re ta re le .
is es al k - st - or ms , rn el es , re ls , nd ti - er al ks ( re he er of en ts an be ed ng he ta ) .
ur ar - ts re ed nd wo ns of el es : he st on es re ly to ow es , ch de al ks th a le en er .
in on 23 we er nt es of on es , i . e . ,
es , ng nt ub - es of ow es .
we er he de - ff en he th of he re nd ts th ( er of ts in ch er ) , us ng he al on of ow es .
he nd on is re ic nd ns el es th a al er - el .
is on is ed st ly in on 23 by ht ts in he se of te ng or al on .
on 23 en es re ly on al rs , i . e . , in ch he on f ( x ) at nt x is ed by he ar rs of x en om he ng et .
is es el es in ch he el is al , ke he an el .
se ms ly on a or ed as a ce or ty on en rs of es , nd om - ss al al ms as ll as rn el es .
is on is ve , ot ly in on , on , nd ty on , ut so in ld ng nd mi - ed ng , re ny rn ds ve ch ty ty , nd re en ly ed on he ph of ar rs .
ng al rn on as an le , we te ow he ow re of el es ds to ly nt ns .
ly , ep es re ed as a ay to pe om he al ns ve .
on 23 es on he es nd es of ep es , ch ve le ls of le es en ut nd ut .
ey an in he ed ty in he ed ns , nd se he cy of he el ng ll ee ns of nt of ng ta , nt of al es , nd nt of an or nd - ng .
gh a um - er of ng ms or ep es ve en le or me me , ng ch es is ll ly ed as a lt ge .
we ss nt es to ng ch ep ks at ws ew hs in is on .
he de - ff en ty nd on - ty as , up il ly , ed ch to ng ms th ex on ms .
we ve nd at on - ex on is es re nt at ex on .
on - ex ss ns ay be an le ty of ng ex nc - ns om ak or ge .
23 ng ls ds ai
he no - ee - ch em or ng ms ( rt , 23 ) es at no ly al - se ng hm an st , in he se at or ry ng el re is a ta on on ch it ll re ly ( on th ng nd st , in he se of te vc on ) .
ry ng el st in im - it or it ns on he ss of ns at it an rn .
ng he et of ll le ns , we re ly ed in a et at ns ll he ks ed in nt or .
es of ch ks de al ep - on , ry on , ng , ol , tc .
he et es ot st de ic al on ks ( e . g an ce on ) , ut he et of ll he ks at an nt nt ld be le to rn .
in he ng , we ll ll is et of nc - ns he ai - et .
se we nt to ve ai , we ze se ks at re in
gh we ay ke to nk at he an in is at al - se , it is ly ed in ts ty to rn gh - al ns .
he ns of ns nd er ls , th ir ng es , an ly nt he ai - et , nd te a ng of of he ty of ai .
we ce at he ai - et is a ny et of he et of ll le ns , ut he on of is ny et ay be er an it rs .
to te is nt , we ll se he le st ed by ( un nd er , 23 ) .
he on en he na nd he al as in he in ts ed up ly te in is .
if ne es he ly le on at ll le ns of he ns of rs in he ic ve re le , re is ot gh ts in he me to de he ct ng , nd no me ng gh to rn it .
he at or on st be ed : me ng st be er to fy ( or re ly ) an rs .
in at ms ke an ly te ce , a ly od ( if ot ct ) ng rn ns to be ne at es gy .
ly , is ng rn ns to be ry le to be in st ny ge ( or le , he al ge ed by gy an ly fy gy - ng ng ns gh on ts of ve th rs ) .
ow an we be so te at he ct or be so le to be , et so ve ? un nd er ( 23 ) nt ut at he in ts in he ry me al ld or ch it ds to ld al ls .
ce he on of od rs or ng he ld en to be le in at ld ( he ty nd gy of he ld is on to th ) .
se of is , we re ed to pe at he ai - et , le a ny et of ll le ns , ay be ed th a ly ll nt of on .
in ce , or ge an be ed in a ng el by ng
ee al ts :
he on of he ta : re - ng , re ns , tc .
he re of he ne : he ly of ns at he ne an
nt nd ts on .
he ss on nd er : ow nt ns in he ly re ed , en a et of ng es , nd ch ns re ed in he ce of ng es ( or or er ) .
ed by ( on , to ar .
23 ) , we fy ne ng ch te - es in he it of ai to ee es .
ne is sm : ce no od pa - on of he ai - et is ly le , ts fy a ch er et or ch ic sk gh ul nd - gn of he re - ng , he re , nd he er .
if sk - ic ns st be ed by nd or ch ew sk , ng ai ll re an ng nt of an rt .
he - ss , is es he st ar ch or ng ne ng to ew ms : gn a er re - ng ( or ta on me ) , so at a rd ng el ( ch as an vm ) ll be le to rn he sk .
a at ar ch is to fy he sk - ic or ge in he re of a
al el by ly ng nt te es nd on - ts gh nt es se al cy on ed es is rd - ed .
ch of he ch in al ls ( an , 23 ) ( ly of he ic pe ) ws is ch .
th of se es , he el ap - ch th an - ed ls or es , nd he al ls ch th an - ed cy re nd cs , re ry ve in he rt rm se ey en ld ck ts in ng ss on a ic sk , ng ge of an ty nd it or it ge ut he sk , nd ng ll ts of ed ta .
he nd gy is al : en th a ic el ch as he an el , el es an te ny on , nd on ( th he ds ) ee on .
hy ld we ed ng se ? is ef ts he no ee ch em .
gh el es an nt ny ng of a ar ng et , ey an ly nt a ry ll nd ry ic et of ns , ch he ng ns of is er ll at - pt to ze .
er is ll et rs a ge rt of he ai - et is ry us , as we ll ow .
in al , at we nk of as ic ng go - ms an ly rk ll th in es of ta ns nd ot so ll th rs .
ey an in ct nt in es of ns ly , nd ot rs .
le he er ng / ic ng hm ch ay be ul or ng ic ms , it gs ut le ss on he ad to ai .
ow an we pe to ve he de ty of ks ed to ve ai th is or - ve ch ? re ly , ow an we er pe to te ch of se ly - lt , ly - ed , ed es to a nt ar - ly nt em ? en if we ld ld se es , we ld ed er ng gm to be le to te em to a nt em .
he rd gy is sm : ts ok or ng ls at an be ed to he st le et of he ai - et , le ng he st le nt of al nd - ed ge or ch ic sk in he ai - et .
he on es : is re a on of he ai - et at an be ly im - ed th er gy ?
er or le he em of ct on in er on : we ld be ed in ng rs or at st al nd es of ts .
ld we ve ed ms or ch ? ly , in al ge ng , he us of ch nt ch is on ng te es or ic ks ch as ng or ng xt of a ar pe ( ch as am il , ob ds , al ws , tc ) .
re we ng to ve to do is or - ve rk or ll he le es of xt ? ur em ll ot be ry rt if we ve to ly er ew es ch me ew a pe of xt or ew es of ct ry st be ed .
if re st re al - se ng ls , at st al gh to le st of he ks at ls nd ns an le , en ng or em ay ve us a le nt of or in he ng un .
as ed in he xt on , a ly nt ay to ze he nd of ex sk ed or ai is at ey ve ng ly on - ar ns th ny ns ( i . e . , se ve es on en ) .
is is ic in on th a or at th ns re re ly , i . e . ,
ng ew or ll ns .
we an f to be th en he ue of f ( x ) nd of ts ve f ( x ) re se to he es of f ( x + ) nd f ( x + ) ly en x nd x + re se as ed by a el or a ce .
is er es al ts at he ss or ne is nt to rn ly - ng ns .
is is ly ed to he se of ty , ut as we nd ut ur on , it is ot he er of ns so ch as he nt of on at rs .
a ne - al on ld be lt to rn , nd ny gh - al ns an be ed ll gh th a th on , so at on - ic ds ng ly on he th or an ll ve od ts .
we ll ng rs a pe of or ge at es gh ty ( or ow ty ) to a ry ll et of ns ( ly ed to a ll et of ks ) , nd ad rs a pe of or ge at ve ly gh ty to a er et of nt ns ( ch ay er a ge et of ks in he ai - et ) .
ng rs re sk - ic , le ad rs re re ed to he al re of ur ld .
we ld ly re at if a on as ny al ns ( ce is ot ry th ) , en it is ot le ss ng or ge is at nd .
ly , is is ot ue .
st , re is no on to ve at ss rs ld ve a al us er er es of rs .
ng ss rs en we ow at he ns we nt to rn re on - th ld em er - ve .
er ad rs re le .
a le ay to ne a or is to ne a ge ( e . g . , a ng ge ) th ch we ss ns , nd or ns at ve a ow ov ty in at ge , i . e .
ns se am is rt .
er ng he c ng ge ( ng th rd es at me th it ) to ne ur or , nd ng ns ch as g ( x ) = in ( x ) ( th x a al ue ) or g ( x ) = ty ( x ) ( th x a ry or of ed on ) .
se ld be ly sy to rn th a ll er of es se ir on is ly rt in c nd ey re ry le er he ng or , te he ct at ey re ly on - th .
we do ot te he it se of ov ty in a al ng ge to gn ew ng ms , ut we se is le to te at it is le to rn ly ex ns ( in he se ey ry a ot ) ng ad rs , by ng a on - al ng hm , ng to rs er an he ss or .
is ht le nd he dy of oy ms ke he ty em in he st of he er so ws at he in ge is to gn ng ms at an er ns of he ta at ly be es in it .
is is in st th he ch of ng he ns nt in he ng ta , nd ng to ly on al ss to ly ll in he ce en he ng es .
as we ed er , re ay st ad rs , th ly le de - on , at ly ce he ce of le ns in te ys .
in al ms , an le of ch a ad or , ch is ed by es as ds ic gs , is he nd of ty ed in al et - ks or al rn on ( un et al . , 23 , un et al . , 23 ) .
is ll be ed in il in on 23
er le of ad or , ch we ss in on 23 , is at he ns to be ed ld be le as ti -
le ls of on of er ns , re nt ls of ns an be ed as nt ls of on .
he on of pt nd of ac - on at we lk ut is er ad nd ly ns a om ty ly nt of he ed ta , nd ul in ng a on of ts ri - on at es ll .
ns at er ls of on ld be nd ul or ng me er ts of he ta on , so at it is si - le to st rn he er ns nd en se em to rn re ct ts .
ls nd ns do rn in is ay , th er ts er in fe , nd er - el ns er , ed in ms of he ly ed ts .
ot ll ns an be ed in is ay , ut ns ar to ve ch a nt .
if ch a hy id ot st , ns ld be le to rn ew ts in ny er .
ce we an pe at is pe of or ay be ul to lp er he ai - et , ut et ic gh to de he st ty of ss
it is a is of he nt rk at ng ms at ld ch ly ed es er a ng ue or ng ne ng ds ai .
er ed is is at ne ld ot er he ge ty of ks ly , ut as nt ts of a re al em : at of ng he ic re of he ld , as en ay gh he es nd rs of a ng al or a ng ld .
is is an ce of ti - sk ng re it is ar at he nt ks re a ng ty .
is ws us to pe at er ng ch a em on a ge ty of ks in he ai - et , he em ay ze to a ew sk om ly a ew ed es .
we ze at ny ks in he ai - et ay be lt nd on ns , ch an be od as a et of ed ts .
if ur al is to ld a ng ne or he ai - et , ur ch ld on -
te on ng ng ls th he ng es :
a ly le ay to fy or ge , ce a ng hm
at an on th a ge re of es .
a ng hm at an al th ep es , in ch a on es he on of ny te ts , nd le ls of
a ng hm at an le ge es of ns , ed
th ns of al rs .
a ng hm at an be ed ly en , en he er of ng es es ry ge .
is es ng ms ir - ng to re nd te le es er he le ng et , or or ch he nt of ns er le es as re es re en .
is ly st he se of on - ne ng .
a ng hm at an er ts at an be ed ly ng le ks nd le es ( ti - sk ng ) , nd at an ke ge of ge ts of ed ta ( mi - ed ng ) .
23 ng es , ow nd ep
23 re es
in is on , we ne he ns of ow nd ep es .
an al on of ir ve es nd ge is ed ng es .
a re al on of he ns of ow es th al th - ss ( ch es st rn el ds ) is en in he xt on .
ng he on of he ic ok ns ( ky nd rt , 23 ) , it is ve to ze nt es of ng es nd to ze ir ns nd es .
to x as , er he le se of on in ch a te el is ed by he ng ne y = f ( x , w ) , re x is he ut rn , nd w a er ch es he ly of ns f at an be ed by he re f = ( f ( , w ) , w w ) .
re 23 : nt es of ow es .
( a ) pe - 23 : ed ng nd ar r; ( b ) pe - 23 : te rs nd ar or ( el ne ) ; ( c ) pe - 23 : le le is ns nd ar or ( al et th ne en er , bf rk ) .
al ns , ke ny ly ar ng ls , re al - ow es .
nt es of ow es re ed in re 23
pe - 23 es ve ed ng in he st er ( e . g . , ns ) .
pe - 23 es ve te rs in he st er ( e . g . , el es ) .
pe - 23 es ve le le is ns in he st er ( e . g . , al et th ne en er , bf rk ) .
ll ee ve a ar on in he
23 . 23 ow re pe 23
ed re - ng us ar or , re 23 ( a ) : he st ow hi - re is ed of a ed ng er ( es ed es or ba - is ns ) , ed by a ar or .
he pe of ar or ed , nd he ay it is ed is ed ( um - in , ic on , on ,
or : f ( x ) = pk
ed or on . . . . ) .
he ly f is ly ed in he er 23 ii ( x ) .
is pe of re is ly ed in ti - al ns .
ce he re - ng is ed ( nd nd - ed ) , it is ly sk - ic in ce .
it is le to ne a ow pe - 23 ne at ld ze he te ai - et .
or le , we ld ne a ne in ch ch re is a er of he ai - et , ce ch ar er of he ai - et an be ed th a ht or ng ll os , pt or a le 23 at he ht ce .
le re ly st re ct ys to ly me - ze he re ai - et , he er of ry es ld ly be ve .
re ly , we do ot ow ly he ns of he ai - et , so is is ot
23 . 23 ow re pe 23
f ( x ) = b + pn
te rs us ar or , re 23 ( b ) : xt on he le of ty is he al el ne re .
he ng is a or of es ng om he on of a el on k ( x , xi ) to ch ng le 23 ik ( x , xi ) , re n is he er of ng es , he pa - er w ns ll he i nd he as b .
in ct , he st er an be en as a es of te rs in ch he es re he ng es .
pe - 23 es an be en as al ms of pe - 23 es in ch he es re ta - nt , ch is to ay i ( x ) = k ( x , xi ) .
is is a le rm of su - ed ng , or he st er .
gh he us el ck ( ee ( pf et al . , 23 ) ) , pe - 23 es an be en as a ct ay of ng pe - 23 es , ng me at ay be oo ge to be al .
if he el on es he er on it an be ed as an er ct en re rs k ( x , xi ) =< ( x ) , ( xi ) > , ng us a ar on en he
er rs in th ns : w or pe - 23 es pi i ( xi )
ry ve re of ch es is at or al on ss ns ( e . g . , ed or , in ss ) ng em es a ex on am .
le se es re ly ed as he ic nd el ds , ey ld ot ct us om he ct at he st er of a el ne is en st a es of te rs .
in st el es , he el is ed as a nd of te rs , ut er es re le .
ng sk - ic or ge , ne an gn a el at es he ht ns or he sk .
is es at he st of er cy in ms of an or .
en a el ts ke a te er , we ll it al : k ( x , xi ) es en es of x at re ar xi nd se at re ot .
me of he al ts in is er us on he an el , re ss ds to ll an ce .
ne ld ay at ne of he in es th el ne th al ls is at ey re le re an te rs .
it is le to se ls at re on - al et ot sk - ic , ch as he ar ls nd al er - ls .
er , st rs ve en ng ar ls or al ls .
ar ls re pe - 23 ow es , th ir us ns .
al ls ve en ar se ey ke ve se ( it is er to rt or ge ) , le al ls nd to ze ry ly en po -
ng ( e . g . , ly ng ) .
he ss or it in al ls is te le or a ot of he ns at ve en ed , as he or ed by al ls is ss ar .
ng he el ld ve us to pe - 23 ow es or ep es ed ow .
23 . 23 ow re pe 23
le le is ns us ar or , re 23 ( c ) : in pe - 23 ow es , he st er ts of le is ns at re le gh ed ng .
is an ve he cy of he on on , by ng he is ns to a sk .
le le is ns de ar ns ed by nt - se on - es nd an al - is nc - ns ( bf ) .
al al ks th ne en er , nd bf ks ng to at ry .
el es in ch he el on is ed ( nd le ) so ng to he ow pe - 23 ry .
ny ng ms ng to is ss as ll .
ke th es 23 nd 23 , he ut is a on - ar on of he rs to be ed .
ce he ss ns ed by ng re ly to be on - ex in he rs .
he on of pe - 23 es is at zy , ce it es on he ll - ed pt of le ed
we ld ly ze at he ry en he us te - es is at zy .
or le , ng he en er of a ne - en - er al et ( a pe - 23 ow re ) is a on - ex em , ut ne ld ag - ne ng a en er so ge at ll le en it ns ld be nt om he rt .
ly he ut er ld ed to be ed .
re if - ly , en he er of en ts es ry ge , nd an 23 er is ed on he ut ts , ch a al et es a el ne , se el as a le rm at an be ed ly ( io et al . , 3b ) .
if we se he in ss is es an vm th a ar el .
gh ty is ly ed in he al it of an te er of en ts , we re at on of le - en - er al ks es er as he er of en ts es er .
if le - en - er al ts ve ny ge er ms , it is at ey an , in le , ve ar ce th a er st er ( ce he rs of he st er an be ed or
te so at ur al ts on al el es re ed in pe , nd st re ed or ic ls ch as he an el , or or al ls ( in he se of k ( u , v ) ng ar ro en |u || es ge ) .
er , he ts ed ow ng he ss of el ma - es re re al .
23 . 23 ep es
ep es re ns of ny rs of ve on - ar ts , in er ds , ey re es of ed on - ar es at in le rs at ll ls .
ep es ow he on of de
es of ns in a re ct rm an ow es , se ey an de ce or me ( or th or th ) le ng he me - ce ct er , as ed ow .
he ts of he te rs re in to me - te ts on he ay to ng he al ut .
es ed by he er rs nt er - el ns , at re ed to rm gh - el es at he xt er , ng er - el ns .
23 he th - th ff
ny ic on an be ed by a ly ed ow ec - re or by a ep re .
ly , en ng a ly of ns , we ve he ce en ow or ep es .
he nt ns re : 23
ow ge is he ng re ( th ow ny rs , ow ch on to ce he ut ) ; 23
ow ch al or is ed in ng he re to he sk .
ng a er of es , we ll te at ep es re en re nt ( in ms of er of al ts nd rs ) or ng on ns .
al es of he al ty of ow ts an be nd in ad ( 23 ) or er ( 23 ) .
ey nt in he me on : ow ts re ch ss ve an ep es .
et us st er he sk of ng wo n - it ry rs .
he st al it es ng he ts ir by ir nd ng he ry .
he ry op - on es o ( n ) ps , nd so o ( n ) re es .
ce he st al re or ry on is a ep ne , th o ( n ) rs nd o ( n ) ts .
a ow re an nt ny an la ed in ve al rm ( nf ) , by ng he ms ( nd ns ) in he st er , nd he nt or on ng a ar er ( a ld te ) th a ow ld .
ly , en or le an ns ch as ry on nd on , he er of ms an be ly ge ( up to o ( 3n ) or n - it ts in he st se ) .
he er ry as in ct ed a le nt of rt to ze he on of al an ns , ut he st it an ut on a le ip as ly ut 23 ut ts ( a 23 - it am ip , as of 23 ) .
is is hy al al ts , e . g . , or ng or ng wo rs re lt th le rs of ic es : ir 23 - er on ( in to a up le ) ld be ly ve .
ee ( ff nd zi , 23 ) or a us on of is on in he xt of ng es .
er ng le is he an ty on .
he n - it an
ty on an be ed in at st ve ys :
( 23 ) th n sy - ed or es ( an n - er re or a nt it
th ne or te nd n me ps ) ;
( 23 ) th n 23 or es ed in a ee ( a 23 n er re ) , or a al
of o ( n og n ) s;
( 23 ) a nf la th o ( 3n ) ms ( wo rs ) .
re 23 as gh th nd ow th ( ll nt of ng ts ) , re 23 is a od ff en th nd th , nd re 23 as gh th nd ow th .
if ne ws he se of ti - ut ry ld es ( ar rs ) in on to al ic es , wo re es re le ( ky nd rt , 23 ) :
( 23 ) a 23 - er re ed as ws .
he st er as n ry sh - ld es ( ar rs ) in ch it i ds he ut ts nd ts i , ce ng he te xi = ( um of ts i ) .
he nd er ns ( n 23 ) / 23 nd es at te ( an d ( n ot 23 ) ) or ll i at re dd .
he st er is a le or te .
( 23 ) a 23 - er re in ch he st er is al to at of he 23 - er ar - re ve , nd he nd er is a ar ld te ( ar er ) re he ht or ut xi is al to ( 23 ) i .
he th re es a ic ge ( cy ) on he ht ar in n , le he st ne es a ic ge al in n .
a of at n - it ty es o ( 3n ) es to be ed by a th - 23 an it ( th nd , ot nd or es ) an be nd in ai ( 23 ) .
in em 23 ( on 23 . 23 ) we te a ar lt or ng es : an al er of ms is ed th a an el ne in er to nt he ty on .
in ny es , ce ( or th ) an be ed or me ( or th ) th le
se ve ts ay em nt of he ic ts in ky nd ts ok ns ( ky nd rt , 23 ) .
is ld me as no se : ow es ( ly of pe 23 nd 23 ) ll to ky nd ts al on of a on nd re ct to ny of ts ns .
er ng le in ch ng rs is al is he st er rm hm ( ft ) .
ce he te er rm is a ar on , it an be ed by a ix on th n 23 ex ns , ch an ll be ed in el , ed by o ( n 23 ) ns to ct he ms .
er he ft hm an ce he al st to 23 23 n 23 n , ns , th he ff of ng 23 n al ps ng n 23 ns ch .
is le ws at , en th ar ns , ng rs ws us to ke ge of he ic es in he sk .
se ch le an be er nt , nt , or ed in a rm , re re m = 3n nt le ms en he it as n ts .
he et of ll le nf ae th k ms nd n ts as c ( m , k ) ts ( he er of ns of k ts om m ) .
ly at et ( ch is ed th he et of ns le th k ms ) ws ry st th k .
ng om k 23 to k ms es he er of ns by a or ( m k ) / k .
en k is ot se to m , he ze of he et of nf ae is al in he er of ts n .
se ts ld st at ly an ly ( in n ) ll on of ll an ns re a ss an al er of
we im at st ns at an be ed ly by ep ec - es ot be ed by a ct ow re .
ne ng he al ns er k rs of a al it to a nf la .
he op - ns ed by he es on ch of he rs re ly to et ed to a er of ms at ld be al in he al er of rs .
to ee is , er a k er al it re ry dd er as nd es ( th he on of ng ts ) nd ry en er as or es .
ry nd - or ve rs ds to a um of ts in lo - 23 ic .
he le it is he on of k / 23 ch ms of ts , nd it is us a ep za - on of a la .
in al , en a ed on is ed to a le um of ts , ne ts a er of ms at an be al in he er of ls .
a ar on ns hy st ct nf ae re an al er of ms en en as a ve al rm ( nf ) la .
a ey of re al ts in al ty of an ir - ts an be nd in er ( 23 ) .
or le , ad ( 23 ) ow at or ll k , re re th k + 23 ts of ar ze at re al ze to te th th k ts .
is es at st ns le ly th a ep re ld re a ry ge er of ts if ed th a ow ne .
ce ng es to ow es ly ts he um of ns at an be ed ly nd ed ly ( at st in a al se ) .
in ar , ly - le ns ( in he se of av - ng gh es in ir er um ) re lt to nt th a it of th 23 ( al et al . , 23 ) .
he ts at we nt in on 23 ld a ar on : ng ly - le ns th a an el ne is
23 he ts of ng al es
re ng to he al is of al ls , we re he el es ( pe - 23 es ) th ep es ng es .
ne of he al ms in rn on is ow to le ra - ss ty .
ng he ex - le of er on , we an re he et of ll he le es of he er e on a 23 23 el id as a et of us ds in he el ce ( e . g . , a ld or er se nd ne or ve ) .
he es on a ld an be nu - ly ed to ch er by ng a th on he ld .
he ty of he ld at ne on ds to he er of nt ns at an an be ed to an ge le ng ts ry .
or en et - er es , he ld as a gh on : rs an be ed ng ne ms ( 23 rs ) , ed ng an ic et on ( gh en - on ) , or ed so as to er he ge of le ng es , es , nd ke hs .
en or le er es , he ld is ry on - ar , th gh re .
to ce es of at , er he pe of he er w .
ny el in he er lf of he ge ll go om te to ck nd te in ur es as he w is ed ly in he ge me om ft to ht .
is is he gn of a ly on - ar ce .
er , ds or er er es re ly ed .
er he pe of a al u nd an o at he me on .
ey ve ny ls in on , ny re ls in ct an th a ed er - on of he me u .
ce he ce en he u nd o ds is er an he ce en wo us ed by a ew ls .
er ht ut he gh re of se ds an be ed om he le in re 23 : he nt or of he al on ld es ly as we te he im - ge ly ne el to he ht , ng gh re .
as ed in on 23 , ny el ms ke an it on of a ly th on ( e . g . , ly ar in he se of ms ) nd ch ng le xi .
ce a gh ur - re es he ty of a ge er of ng es in er to er ll he ed ts nd ns th ly nt or ly ar es .
is gs us to at we ve as he in ng of te - ed ds : a ry ge er of es ay be ed in er to er ch ld th gh es to id ns .
re , he er of ry es an ow ly th he ic on of a ss - nt ld .
he ly ay to nt he em th a pe - 23 ec - re is to gn ty es or ng es ( el ns ) ch at wo ns at re on he me ld re ed ar .
ly , ng ch ty es , en or a em as ic as it on , as ed lt , te st 23 rs of ve ch .
re , if ch a od sk - ic el re ly ed , it ay be le to er es
to er te he on , er he em of ng nd ng a le if ( ay , of ze s = 23 ls ) at an ar at d nt ns in a ly te ge th n ls ( ay 23 ls ) .
to ve is em , a le el - ne re ld re ne te of he if or ch si - le on .
is es n . d ry ns .
an re at ws or ly al re rs ld ly re s . d ry ns .
we ld ze at is al ty ( re rs at nd on ls in a ed us in he ge ne ) is ct om he ty of el nc - ns ( re rs at ce ge es ly or ut rs at re in a ed us in he ut or ce ) .
in ct , ly al re rs ve on - al se in he ce of ut rs , ce ir ut is nt of he ut ls ey re ot ed to .
a ly re ed le is he sk of ng nd ng a rn ed of wo nt fs .
ch if es s ls , nd an ar at d nt ns ly of ch er .
a el ne ld ed a te te or ch le ce of he wo fs , i . e . , n . 23 ng ts .
by st , a ly ed pe - 23 re ld ly re a et of al re rs or ll he ns of he st fs , nd a ar et or he nd if .
he al nt of ry ns is a re 3s . d .
we do ot ow of ny el at ld ow to ly le al es .
an en re re on rs if he nd is ot ly te , ut an in om er .
a el ne ld ly ed ny nt es ng he ed fs on op of ny nt ds .
by on - st , he ly - ed ep re ed in he us ph ll le is on st ne .
we ve ed is pe of or ly
( ee es in on 23 ) .
se ht ts te he ns of el es ue to he ct at ir st er is ed to ng he ng ns th al em - es .
by st , he pe - 23 re at es ly al re rs es he on er nd he er ly nd ly .
th es re ow , ut le ch el on is ed in a ll ea of he ut ce , he ly al re rs re ed by a ge ( n s ) - al ub - ce of he ut ce ( ce ey ly ok at s ls ) .
ep es th ly - al re rs re en re nt ( ee on 23 ) .
ce he im - ns of el es re ot st ue to ir ss , ut so to he al er of ir se on ( al in ut ce , ot in he ce of ge
23 al on of al ng
a ge on of he nt rk in al ne ng as ed on on - ic ng ms ch ly ly , ly or ly , on a ss or .
a ss or rs ns f ch at en x x , f ( x ) f ( x ) .
al or ge is ed by ng he ce of he ta nd he ar on of ty en es ( ly ed as a el on ) .
is ss of ng ms es st es of he el ne ms ( pf et al . , 23 ) , ch as rt or es ( ms ) ( er et al . , 23 , es nd ik , 23 ) or an es ( ms nd en , 23 ) , ut so ed ng ms at pt to ap - re he ld re of he ta , ch as ly ar ng ( is nd ul , 23 ) , ap ( um et al . , 23 ) , el ca ( pf et al . , 23 ) , an ps ( in nd gi , 23 ) , ld ng ( nd , 23 ) , nd al ng ms ( ee ss ( 23 ) or a ew ) .
re ly , re as so en ch st in on - ic mi - ed ng go - ms , ch as hu et al .
( 23 ) , ou et al .
( 23 ) , in et al .
( 23 ) , au et al .
( 23 ) , ch so ll in is ry , nd re ny as th ld
ce is is a ge ss of ms nd ne at es to ct on , it is le to te ts ns .
ce se ds re ny ar - cs th al on - ic al ng ms ch as he k - st rs nd he en ws on nd ty on go - ms ( da nd rt , 23 ) ch ve en wn to er om he so - ed se of ty , it is al to te he ng on : to at ex - nt do se rn el ds er om a ar em ? ee ( le et al . , 23 ) or a nt nd ly le on of he se of ty or al on - ic ds .
to re is on , we us on ms in ch he ed on is ed in ms of a ar on of el ns ed on he ng
f ( x ) = b +
re we ve ed an al as rm b .
he et d = ( 23 , .
, zn ) ns ng es zi = xi or ed ng , zi = ( xi , yi ) or ed ng .
et ue yi an ke a al ng ue or mi - ed ng .
he is re rs en by he ng hm ng d , nd kd ( , ) is he er - el on , a ic on ( es ed to be ve mi - te ) , ch ay be en by ng to nt ll he is .
a al el on is he an el ,
k ( u , v ) = e 23
th he th ng ow al he el is .
ee io et al .
( 23 ) to ee at le , ap , an ps nd er al ld ng ms ch as al ng an be ed nd en in he rm of eq .
23 or a st nt x , ut th a nt el ( at is ta - nt , ly ng a nd of on of a ta - nt el ) .
ne ns he cy of al on - ic rs by ly ng he er - er at ls he ty of he or as n es .
ly , he el ld be ed to me re nd re al , so at is - al as es to ro , ut he ve er of es ed in he or at x ( al to k or he k - st or or ) ld se as n es , so at al ce is so en to 23
or a de ss of el on rs , he al ce nd ed as an be wn to be en as ws ( le et al . , 23 ) :
ed or =
nd + 23 ,
th 23 nd 23 ot ng on n or on he on d .
ce an al nd - +d , nd he ng on or ( ot nt - th is en al to n ng he se ) es in 23 / ( +d ) , ch es ry ow or ge d .
er or le he se in er of es ed to et he me el of or , in 23 on us d ns .
if 23 is he er of es ed to et a ar el of or , to et he me el of or in d ns es on he er of n ( +d ) / 23 es , i . e . , he ed er of es is al in d .
or he k - st or er , a ar lt is ed ( pp nd sh ,
ed or = e +
re e is he ic or , d is he on nd n he er of es .
te er at , if he ta on is ed on a er al ld , it is he ld on at rs .
or le , en ta es on
a th er - al ld , he ly ty at rs to a k - st or er is he ty of he ld , ce it ly es he an es en he ar rs .
ny ed nd mi - ed ng ms ly on a ph th ne de er le , in ch by es re ed th an ge ed by he an ce be - en em .
if ta ie on a ow - al ld en ic es in is ph ch ic es on he ld ( um et al . , 23 ) , as he er of es es .
er , ce an be ly er or
23 um er of es ed
in is on we nt ts ng he er of ed es ( ce of in - ng es ) of a el ne th an el ay ow ly th he er of ns of he et on at st be ed in er to ve a en or el .
23 . 23 lt or ed ng
he ng em ts he er of gn es at a an el ne an ve , en it as k es ( i . e . , k rt rs , or at st k ng
em 23 ( em 23 of tt ( 23 ) ) .
et f : r r ed by a an el ne ( eq .
23 ) th k es ( on - ro is ) .
en f as at st 3k os .
we ld ke to ay ng ut el es in rd , nd we an do is ly by ng a ht ne in rd nd he er of gn es at he on on f an ve ng at ne .
ry 23
se at he ng em is ch at in er to ve a en or el or es om a on p th a an el ne ( eq .
23 ) , en f st ge gn at st 3k es ng me ht ne ( i . e . , in he se of a er , he on ce st be ed at st 3k es by at ht ne ) .
en he el ne st ve at st k es ( on - ro is ) .
a of an be nd in io et al .
( 3a ) .
le 23
er he on ce wn in re 23 , ch is a al on .
ne ay ke ge of he al ty to rn it th ew pa - rs ( us ng ew es ) , ut th an ne on of ns , ry 23 es ne ld ed at st m 23 = 23 ns .
or re ex ks in er on , he ty of he on ce ld ly ke ng al en ng ch a al el od .
of se , ne ly ks to te he on ce s , nd es ot ly ed to rn it ly : ry 23 ys ng ut he ce of an er - to - rn on ce ng s .
or ce , in he le of
re 23 : he ed ne es he on ce 23 es : ne us ds at st 23 ns to rn it th an ne on of ns th me th .
re 23 , he ed ne ld rn ut to be a od gh ed on ce if st es re ar om he ue on ce , nd is ne an be ed th ly wo ns .
he ve em ls us at in er to nt a on at ly es a ot , in he se at ts gn ng a ht ne es ny es , a an el ne es ny ng es nd ny al ts .
te at it ys ng ut he ty of he ut ce , ut we ht ct to ve to rn ns at ry re en he ta is gh - al .
he xt em ms is on in he al se of he d - ts ty on :
ty : ( 23 , .
, bd ) ( 23 , 23 ) d 23 ( id : 23 ) 23 if pd
23 bi is en
ng is ly le on th ns ed on ts in ( 23 , 23 ) d is ly lt , in he se at it es a er of ns al in d ( or a ed an th ) .
te at ur ry 23 es ot ly to he d - ts ty on , so it ts er pe of al on ( ot ng a ne ) .
er , it is so le to ve a ry ng lt or ty .
em 23
et f ( x ) = b 3d
23 ik ( xi , x ) be an ne on of ns th me th ed on ts xi xd .
if f es he ty em , en re re at st 23 on - ro ts i .
a of an be nd in io et al .
( 3a ) .
he nd in em 23 is ht , ce it is le to ve he ty em th ly 23 ns nd a as , or ce by ng a ve as nd ng a
ve ht on ch le ng ty ( xi ) = 23
en ed to rn he ty on , a vm ay rn a on at ks ke he te of he ty on st ts ( le ll ng ly on ng ts ) , ut it is an ct of he ic ry of he em , nd ly rs en he ng et ze is te ed to d| = 3d ( ee io et al .
( 23 ) or ls ) .
te at if he rs of he ns re ot ed re to be ts in he ng et ( i . e . , a pe - 23 ow re ) , it is le to ve he ty em th ly d + 23 ns nd no as ( io et al . , 23 ) .
ne ay ue at ty is a le te oy em of le st .
ut en if we ve to ct he is to te es in ( 23 , 23 ) d or al ns , he ty on an be ed to a th on on he ( 23 , 23 ) d er - be ng ly on he us um 23 + .
em 23 is us a is to ue at he er of ns ed to rn a on th ny ns in a us ce ay le ly th he er of se ns , nd us ly ly in he on .
23 . 23 ts or mi - ed ng
in is on we us on ms of he pe ed in nt rs ( hu et al . , 23 , ou et al . , 23 , in et al . , 23 , au et al . , 23 ) , ch re ph - ed , on - ic , mi - ed ng ms .
te at ve ms ( ms , 23 ) , ch re er ss of mi - ed ms , re dy ct to he ns of ry 23
he ph - ed ms we on - er re an be en as ng he ng st on , as wn in au et al .
( 23 ) :
c ( y ) = k yl 23 + y l y + k y 23
th y = ( 23 , .
, yn ) he ed ls on th ed nd ed ta , nd l he ( un - ed ) ph an ix , ed gh l = 23 / 3w 23 / 23 om a el on k en ts ch at he am ix w , th ij = k ( xi , xj ) , ds to he ts of he es in he ph , nd d is a al
ix ng in - ee : ii = pj ij .
re , yl = ( 23 , .
, yl ) is he or
of ed ls on he l ed es , se wn ls re en by yl = ( 23 , .
, yl ) , nd ne ay in yl = yl as in hu et al .
( 23 ) by ng 23
we ne a on th nt el as a ed et of he ph re ll es xi ve he me ed el ( gn of yi ) , nd ch at no er de an be ed le ng se es .
on of he st on of eq .
23 an so be en as a el on hm , i . e . , ls re ad nd ed es , th ss ng ed by he re of he ph , i . e . , by he el .
an ve ew of el on ts at a on of he ld ar a ed ( e . g . , ve ) le ll be ly ed ly , as he le ds ts ce by on on he ph ng he ng ld .
us , he er of ns th nt el ld be on he me er as ( or ss an ) he er of ed es .
is is sy to ee in he se of a se am ix w .
we ne a on th nt el as a ed et of he ph re ll es xi ve he me
ed el ( gn of yi ) , nd ch at no er de an be ed le ng se es .
he ng on en ds ( te at it is so ue , ut al , en w es a ly ed ph ) .
on 23
er ng a el on hm ng he st of eq .
23 , he er of ns th nt ed el is ss an ( or al to ) he er of ed es .
a of an be nd in io et al .
( 3a ) .
he ce is at we ll ed at st as ny ed es as re re ns in he ss , as ne es by ll ps in he od ph om ne us on of me el to an - er .
in we ee he me pe of on - ic ng ms th a al el , re in he se of mi - ed ng : we ay ed ut as ny la - ed es as re re ns , en gh an ly ge er of se ns ld ve en ed re ly an by ir on .
23 ss us ty : se of ty
er a an vm nd ow at or es as ne es , he er - er of he an el .
or ge ne ld ct he ed on to be ry th , as or ll ne ld ct he ed on to be ry al , in he se ed er : he ar rs of x ve ng ce in he pe of he or at x .
he ng on ls us at ns en is ge , or en we on -
er at a ll se us is ll ed to .
on 23
or he an el er , as es nd es ge ed th he er of he ta , in he st re ng he ta
he on ce es ar pi i = 23 ( e . g . , or ms ) , or se he al
or of he on ce es a ar on of wo re ce al rs , th ch re ed on a ed ge of he es of he ng ss .
a of an be nd in io et al .
( 3a ) .
te at th is on we ee ly at en es ge , a el er es on - al ( it es a ar er ) .
er , is on - ty is at he ce of ng he on ce to be ry th , ng it lt to el ly ng on es .
is is he ce of he de - ff en ss nd ty in ny ar on - ic ls ( ng he al es ch as k - st - or nd en ws ms ) .
ow er in at es a an el ne is al ( ng ut ll ) .
er a st nt x at is ar he on ce .
we im at he on of he on ce is ed by he rs xi of x in he ng et , ng he or al in ts ve .
if we er he i ed ( i . e . , ng ir ce on he ng is ) , en it is us at he on f ( x ) is ed by he ar rs xi of x , ce k ( x , xi ) 23 ly en |x || / es ge .
er , he i an be ed by ll he js .
he ng on ts at ue by ng at he st ve of f .
re 23 : or al ld ng ms ch as le , ap nd el ca , he ld nt ne at x is in he an of he ce rs en st nt x nd ts rs xi in he ng et .
is es se ms ve to he se of ty , en he ld is gh - al nd ot ry at .
on 23
or he an el er , he al of he nt of he on ce at x is ed to ly ie in he an of he rs ( x xi ) th |x || ot ge ed to nd xi in he ng et .
ch of he of
a nt x of he on ce is
he or is f ( x ) pi ik ( x , xi ) .
he al or of he nt ne at
23 k ( x , xi ) .
ch rm is a or al to he ce or ix .
is um is ed by he ms th |x || ot ge ed to .
we re us ft th f ( x ) ly in he an of he ce rs x xi th xi a ar or of x .
he i ng ly rs , ey ly ce he ht of ch or xi in at ar on .
ce gh f ( x ) an be ed by xi ar om x , he on ce ar x as a al or at is ed to ly ie in he an of he rs x xi th xi ar x .
q . e . d .
he nt of f ( x )
x ng in he an of he rs x xi or rs xi of x is ot ng if he ld of st ( e . g . , he on of he on ce th gh ty ) as ow ty .
ed if at ty is er or al to he er of ng rs , en re is no nt at ll .
ow - er , en ng ex es ng ny rs of on , he on of st ay ve ry gh on ( e . g . , er he ct of ns at ve ly ge on , ch as es in er , nd , tc
es ) .
or ch a ex ly - ng et on , we so ed a ry al or ( ll ) in er to ly nt ll he ed ns .
th a ll , he er of ng rs ll be ll ed to he on of he ld of st , ng is ty in he ve a ng nt , nd ng he ng se of ty nt .
is on of ty in he se of he ve ws us to ne a ll nd ch st nt x , ng rs at ve a ng ce on f ( x ) ss in at ll ns he on ce to be ly er ar ( se of ms ) or a ar ic rm ( he on ce al or is a ar on of wo rs ed by he er of ss of es of ch ss ) .
et n be he er of ch ls ry to er he on re he ue of he or is ed ( e . g . , ar he et on ce , in he se of on ms ) .
et k be he st er ch at ne ds at st k es in ch ll to ch or el .
he er of es us ed is kn .
to ee at n an be al in me on , er he um us r of ll se ls nd he us r of .
if as ic on d , en n ld be as ge as he er of us - r ls at an le a d - al ld
of us r , ch is on he er of ( id : 23 ) r
in io et al .
( 23 ) we nt ar ts at ly to ed rn - ng ms ch as on - ic ld ng ms ( is nd ul , 23 , um et al . , 23 , pf et al . , 23 , in nd gi , 23 ) .
we nd at en he ng ld es a ot in he se of ng gh va - re in ny es , en a ge er of es is ed .
te at he nt ne of he ld is ed by he es of he el ne on f , or ch ms .
he re lt is at he ld nt ne at x is ed by ms ed th he ar rs of x in he ng et ( re ly it is ed to be in he an of he rs x xi , th xi a or of x ) .
is ea is ed in re 23
in he se of ph - ed ld ng ms ch as le nd ap , he on of ar es is ct ( i . e . , he ve is ly in he an of he ce rs th he rs ) , se he el im - it in se ms es ue 23 or he on - rs .
th ch al ld ng ms , ne ds to er he ld th ll gh ar es th at st d + 23 es er ch ( re d is he on of he ld ) .
is nt as ly ed in io nd us ( 23 ) to be he ns of od - ed ld ng ms .
an le at es at ny ng ds an ve gh re is at of on of gh - st es , wn in re 23
he me nt es to he er ic es of es of ts .
23 ep es
he es in he us ns nt to he ty of ng ly - ng ns .
se re ns th a ge er of ns ( ts nd ns ) in he in of st , e . g . , ey ld re a ge er of es to be ll - ed by a se - ar on .
ce he er of es an be
re 23 : he ld of ns of a gh - st ge as gh re .
a th ld is ed by ng at an ge is a le on a te id of an ty on er a wo - al ce .
he nt or or on is us a nt ge , nd it as gh es ly on he es of he nk .
he nt ne or an ge ed by ly ne el ks ar ut es ly ce he es re so ed by ne el .
ce he wo nt es re st al , nd he ld as gh re , ch is ad or al ng ds , ch st er he ld th ny ll ar es to ly re ts pe .
de to ow ly th he er of ut es , is em is ly ed th he ll - wn se of ty or al on - ic ng ms ( or on , on nd ty on ) .
if he es of ll se es re ed , ne ds gh es or ch ce in er to ze ly .
er , if se es re ed nd an be ed om ch er , on - al ng ms ve he al to ze to es ot ed by he ng et .
ch ty ld em ry or ng in ex ns ch as in he ai - et .
ne ay to nt a ly - ng on ly ( th ew rs ) is gh he on of ny on - es .
ch le on of on - es ar to nt on - al es to he or , in he se at he ue of f ( x ) or f ( x ) an be ly nt on ng es ar om xi le at he me me ng to re a ge er of ns .
we ve al - dy ed ty nd er es ( on 23 ) at ly st at he ng of re ct ns is ch re nt en it is ne ly , by ng ly ed ts .
en he on of a pt re - es an al er of ts , ( e . g . , th a ow it ) , he er of
ng es ed to rn he pt ay so be al .
an es , ms , og - ar ls , ph - ed ld ng nd ph - ed mi - ed ng ms an ll be en as ow ec - es .
gh ti - er al ks th ny rs an nt ep ir - ts , ng ep ks as ys en en as at of a ge .
il ry ly , al es en nd at ep ks ly ed no er , nd en se , an al ks th ne or wo en rs ( ro , 23 ) .
a le on to is is he al al rk re ( le - un et al . , 23 , un et al . , 23 ) ed in he xt on , at as a se on - ty om er to er .
te ts ce , he ic of ep rk ng as en at ed by he ch ty .
er , a ng ew od ly ed by on et al .
( 23 ) is ng a ce of st in
a on on or he ty of ep rk ng is he ce of al ma or us in he ss on .
nt - ed on th - ds at rt om om al ns ar to en et ed in or al ma or us .
he em ms ly re or ow ks ( th ew en ts or th a ck ) nd or ks th ny es ( i . e . , ly - ed ks in ch en ts re le ) .
he on re - ly ed by on et al .
( 23 ) or ng ep ed ks is ed on a dy , er - se ed ng se .
he ed ng se es an al on of he rs th ch a nt - ed er - ed ng se is ed .
he in ea of he ed se is to ir ch ed - rd er th a ed - ck er at ts to ct he ut of he er om ts ut .
is on on es at st of he on ed in he ut is ed in he ut of he er .
he ng re is a so - ed ep ef ks ( bn ) .
er he al ed ng of ch ed - rd / ed - ck ir , he ed - rd lf of he rk is ed ng a nt - nt ed ed od ( ck - on ) .
is ng gy ds at se as a le to ak gh he em of ng ep ks .
er rs of a bn re ed to nt re ct ts at in he ut on x , as er rs ct ow - el es om x .
er rs rn er ts st , nd er rs ld on em to rn re ct ts .
is gy as ot et en ch ed in ne ng , ut it is at he is of he dy er - se ve ng hm or ns .
re ly , ch er is ed in an ed ay so as to re he in es of he on it es as ut .
it es an al on or ts ut at an be ed as ut or he xt er .
in a bn , ch er is ed as a ed nn ne ( eh nd on , 23 ) ng he ve ce ( on , 23 ) on of he og - od nt .
he ts of ch er ( i . e . , en ts ) te a ed nd ed ep - on at es es or he ut of he er .
er he rs ve en us ed , a al ut er is ed on op of he rk ( e . g . , ng he ss es ) , nd he le ep rk is ne - ed by a nt - ed on of he on or .
he ly ce th an ry ti - er al rk es in he on of he rs , ch is ot om , ut
is ed gh ed ng of ch er in a al on .
ts ve en ed on he st nd er ts to ry to un - nd hy he ep ef ks re ng ch er an er ow ks or ep ks th om on .
se ts re ed nd ed in ( io et al . , 23 ) .
al ns an be wn om se er - ts , ng ch he ng , of ar st re :
ar ts an be ed by ng ch er as an to - or in - ad of a ed nn ne , ng at a er al in - le as en ed .
st on or is ly ed th ch dy er - se ed on er er a ow rk or a ep rk th he me re ut th om on .
in ll es ny le en er es re ed , nd ed ed on on or .
en ng a dy er - se gy at is ed ad of er - ed , he ts re ot as od , ly se it is oo dy : ed re ng ts re on an ly ry or he ic - on sk , as dy ed re ng ( dy se it es ot ke to nt at re ll be re rs er ) ts ss on an ry , ch ly es ts to ve by ng rs .
he dy er - se ed gy ps on ly be -
se it ps he ed on to et ed ar a er on .
23 ts th al rn on
ne al on en ng a ng re is ow to nt in - ce .
le ce es re al to ny ng sk , it is ly nt in al rn on .
in is on we er al ts in ng on nd ct on to te he ve es nd es of el ds , ow es , nd ep es .
23 ng ce
he le of re 23 ws at he ld ng ll ed ns of a er ge as gh re .
se he ld is ly ng , a er at is nt to ns ( i . e . , at es a nt ut en he ut es on he ld , ut es en he ut es to er ss ld ) ds to te a ly ng on .
as we ed in he us on , te - ed ds re nt at ng ly - ng ns .
he er of ch ns ay se ly th he ty of he ds re he ut ty es .
at ty is he er of ns ng ch es in a ry an ry .
we ll ow be wo ts of ts th al rn on .
he st rt is a ey of ts ed th ow nd ep es on he st
et , ch ns ed en ts .
he nd rt es ts of ts th he rb et , ch ns ts om ve nt ic es , ed on rm or ed ds .
or al rn on , pe - 23 es ve le ng he de ty of ce in el es at lt om ns in se , mi - on , nd er , ss an ly ge er of es ( e . g . , rt rs ) re ed .
ad - oc ng nd re on an , of se , be ed to te he em , ut at he se of an or .
re , we ll te on ds at al th aw el ta nd at te re on as rt of he ng ss .
23 al ks
al ts re ti - er es in ch he ve rs re de - ed to rn ly er - el es , il he st er ch ts es .
ll he rs re ed ly to ze an ll ss nc - on .
ke th st er ls of on nd rn on , re is no ct re or nd er in a al rk .
ll he rs re ar in re nd ed om ta in an ed on .
he ic le of a al et is ed of a re on er ed by a re ng er .
a al al et is ed of ne , wo or ee ch on / ng es in es , ed by a on le .
he ut te ( nd ut te ) of ch er an be en as a es of wo - al ic ys ed re ps .
at er i , he ue xy ed by he j - th re on er at on ( x , y ) in he j - th re ap is ed by ng a es of on ls jk to re ps in he us er ( th ex i 23 ) , nd ng he lt gh a ic nt
xy = nh ij xk
re pi nd qi re he th nd ht of he on el .
he on el rs pq nd he as ij re ct to ng .
a re on er an be en as a nk of al rs ed by a nt - se on - ty .
ch er ts a ar re at ry on on he ut .
ce ly ng he ut of a re on er ll te he ut ut ve it se ed .
on ce is ly lt - in by in - ng pq = kp q or ll p , p , q , q , i . e . , he me rs re ed at nt
a re ng er as he me er of es in he ap as he re on er at es it .
ch ue in a ng ap is he ge ( or he ax ) of he es in a al od in he ng re ap in he us er .
at ge or ax is ed to a le as , ed by a le nt , nd he lt is ed gh a on - ty ( e . g . , he nh on ) .
he ws re ed ut ap .
re he ps of a re
re 23 : he re of he al et ed or he rb ts .
he ut is an ge ir , he em ts 23 re ps of ze 23 23 , 23 ps of 23 23 , 23 ps of 23 23 , 23 ps of 23 23 , nd 23 al re or .
he re or is en ed to a 23 - al or in he st er to te he ce th et rs .
ng er re ss an he on of he ps in he us er .
he le of he ng er is ld a on at is nt to ll ns of he ns of es in he ut .
ed rs of re on nd re ng an ct es om ly ge ve ds , th ng ss to nt es of he ts .
he st le of a al rk is ly a ne - or wo - er al et .
ng a al et an be ed th ic ( on - ne ) nt nt , ng he ts th a nt of he ck - on od .
le al ts re ep ( ly 23 to 23 rs of on - ar ns ) , ey do ot em to er om he ce ms at ue ep ly - ed al ts .
le re is no ve on or is , we ct at is on is ed to he ly ed on , as ll as to he ry of
al ts re ng ed ly in al ly - ed ys - ms or ng nk ck ( un et al . , 23 ) , ng ng or et - pc , nd or ng es , le , nd ts in os in al me .
23 he ns om st
st is a et of en ts th 23 , 23 ng es nd 23 , 23 st es .
it es ve en ze - ed so as to t in a 23 23 el ow , nd ed by er of ss in a 23 23 ld .
th is re , he on of he rs ry ly om ne le to er .
us rs ve ed ts on st , ng se ns ng ds .
a ll et of nt ts is ed in le 23
ot ll od ts on st re ed in he le .
in ar , ts ed th ed es or th
nd - ed re rs re ft ut .
ts re ed th ee al et es : et - 23 , et - 23 , nd he ng al et of ( rd et al . , 23 ) .
he ut ld is a 23 23 el ap in ch he 23 23 es re ed .
in et - 23 ( un et al . , 23 ) , he st re on er es 23 re ps of ze 23 23 ng 23 23 on ls .
he st re ng er es 23 23 23 re ps gh a 23 23 ng io nd 23 23 ve ds .
he nd re on er es 23 re ps of ze 23 23 ng 23 23 on ls , nd is ed by a ng er th 23 23 ng .
he xt er es 23 re ps of ze 23 23 ng 23 23 on ls .
he st er es 23 re ps ( ne er ut ry ) .
et - 23 as a ry ar re , ut he er of re ps at ch el re ch er : 23 re ps in he st er , 23 in he rd er , nd 23 re ps in he te
he al et in ( rd et al . , 23 ) is at ar to he al ne in ( un et al . , 23 ) in at re is no te on nd ng rs .
ch er es a on th a ed lt ( re is no re ng on ) .
ir le al rk as 23 es at he st er , th 23 by 23 ls nd 23 by 23 ng , 23 es at he nd er , so th 23 by 23 ls nd 23 by 23 ng , 23 es at he rd er th 23 by 23 ls , nd 23 ut ts .
he st es re ly le se of ng le , ut ve le on ue to on nd le .
ce , it is a et at is ly le or te - ed ds .
et , he or te ed by rt or es th an el ( 3% or ) is ly ly er an at of a ly er al et th a le en er of 23 en ts ( 3% as ed by ( rd et al . , 23 ) ) , nd ar to he ts ed th a 23 - er al et as ed in ( on et al . , 23 ) ( 3% or ) .
he st ts on he al st et th a ge ee od as ed in ( on et al . , 23 ) ( 3% or ) , ng a ep ef by ge - ee od , we an a od at as no or ge of he al re of he al .
se ds ld ce ly he me lt if he ut ls re ed th a ed on .
al ts se he al re of he ta , nd he ce of te - es to ll ic ns .
it is a ad ( ow ty ) or , ch an be ed ly ( th a rt ce of de ) .
et it gs ut a le on of he le of ns at an be ed .
he st al et on he ed st et is et - 23 , ch ds a rd 3% .
as th ns ts , is lt as ed by ng he rs in he st er us - ng an ed hm , or to ng th ck - on ( to et al . , 23 ) .
he me et - 23 ed ly ed om om on ds 3% or .
a er al et , et - 23 ds 3% .
he me rk as ed to ld 3% in ( un et al . , 23 ) th a er er of ng
en he ng et is ed th ly ed ns of he ng es , he st or te ( on he al , on - ed st et ) ps ly .
a al 23 - er al rk th 23 en ts ds 3% or ( rd
23 - er nn , 23 id .
ts 23 - er nn , 23 ts vm , an el ed ed bm + op al rk et - 23 al rk et - 23 nv .
et - 23 + up .
ng ng et ed th ne ns 23 - er nn , 23 id .
ts al vm , eg .
23 ly ng et ed th ic ns 23 - er nn , 23 id .
ts vm an er .
+ on - ne ng pe xt es + ic k - nn nv .
et - 23 nv .
et - 23 + up .
ng
rd et al .
23 on et al .
23 es et al .
23 on et al
to et al .
23 to et al .
23 to et al
rd et al .
23 te et al .
23 rd et al
rd et al .
23 is me , er 23 ie et al .
23 rd et al .
23 to et al .
23 to et al
le 23 : st or es of us ng ls on he st et .
ny ts ed th ed es or nd - ed re rs re ft
et al . , 23 ) .
le ms ly rm 23 - er al ts on he ed et , he ge ll ut rs on he ed et .
in is me , li et al .
rt 3% or th a an vm nd a le on re .
he er of rt rs in he ng vm is ly er an 23
al ts ed to he ly ed et ve en 3% nd 3% or , ng on he re , he ss on , nd he er of ng hs .
rd et al .
( 23 ) ts 3% th a ng al et .
to et al .
( 23 ) rt 3% ng et - 23 th om on , nd 3% ng et - 23 th ed re - ng of he st er .
is is he st or te er ed on he al st st et .
ce a ep rk , th ll se of or ge ed in he hi - re , ed th a ng hm at an al th ns of es , es a ng ay ds ng ce .
ot ly do ep ks ld er or es , ey re er to un nd er to in on ge ts an he st
re 23 : he 23 ng ts in he ed - rm rb et .
he ng ts re en by he ed em .
23 he ns om rb
le st is a ul rk , ts es re le gh to ow a al te ng me to rm ll .
al es of 3d ts th ck - nd er re ly re ng .
rb ( un et al . , 23 ) is a ly le et of ct es om 23 ic es .
it ns im - es of 23 nt ys , th 23 ys in ch of he 23 ic es : ur - ed ls , an es , es , ks , nd rs .
he 23 ts re it to a ng et th 23 ts , nd a st et th he ng 23 ct ( ee es in re 23 ) .
ch ct is ed by a eo ra ir in 23 nt ws ( 23 ns , 23 hs ) er 23 nt ns .
wo ts ed om rb re ed .
he st et , ed he ed - rm et , re es of a le ct th a ed ze ed at he er of es th rm nd .
he ng et as 23 , 23 eo ge rs of ze 23 , nd er 23 , 23 or ng ( om nt ct es ) .
he nd et , he ed - ed et , ns ts th ly ed
ns , es , in - ne on , ss , nd st .
he ts re ed on ly ed ds nd er rb ts ed on he ry .
a 23 - th ry of es is ed : nd es ng no ts .
me es es of is et re wn in re 23
ch ge in he ed - ed et is ly ed so at he ts re at nt ns ( ( - 23 , 23 ) ls ly nd ly ) , es ( io in ( 23 , 23 ) ) , ge - ne es ( ( 23 , 23 ) ) , ss ( ( - 23 , 23 ) ts of ay le ) , nd ts ( ( 23 , 23 ) in ) .
he al ct ld be ed by he ly ed or .
to te he ng et , ch ge as ed th 23 nt ns of he ve rs , ch es up 23 , 23 ge rs of ze 23
he ng et as 23 gs of ns er ge , nd ns 23 , 23 rs .
in he rb ts , he ly ul nd le ue is he pe of he ct , le ll he er rs at ct he ce re ct to on , or re ed to in no ul ue .
rs at re ct to on re : ng es ( se ) , ng ns .
al es se ct as mi - ed de : or ( ll es re le ) , nd ct re .
or ic ct on ks , he or nd re on ay be ul , ut or ic on ks he or nd re on re ns er an ul es .
by ng al es nd ng nt es nd em - ic es , rb an ve as a rk et in ch no en ty at ld ly ge me ds er rs an be ed .
a ix - er et ed et - 23 , wn in re 23 , as ed in he ts th he rb et ed re .
he re is ly al to at of et - 23 nd et - 23 , pt of he es of he re ps .
he ut is a ir of 23 ay le es .
he st re on er es ve 23 on ls to te 23 re ps of ze 23 23
he st 23 ps ke ut om he ft ge , he xt wo om he ht ge , nd he st 23 om th .
re re 23 le rs in is er .
he st re ng er es a 23 ng , to ce 23 re ps of ze 23 23
he nd re on er es 23 on ls of ze 23 to ut 23 re ps of ze 23 23
ch ap es ut om 23 ar ps nd 23 ar ps , ch th a nt on , as wn in re 23
is on is ed to ne es om he eo ge rs .
is er ns 23 , 23 le rs .
he xt ng er es a 23 ng ch ts 23 re ps of ze 23 23
he xt er as 23 23 on ls to ce 23 re ps of ze 23 23 , nd he st er as 23 ts .
in he ts , we so rt ts ng a id od , ch ts in ng he al rk in he al ay , ng ff he st er , nd ng a an el vm on he ut of he te er .
ny of he ts in is on re ly ed in ( ng nd un , 23 ) .
23 ts on he ed - rm et
le 23 ws he ts on he er rb et th rm nd .
is et es a io in ch ts an be ly ed om he nd , nd is re er ic .
on of s . v .
3% 3% 3%
ep ze =
23 - 23
le 23 : ng or es nd ng / ng gs on he ed - rm et of nt ds .
he ng is ed to al hz le pu .
he al ts ve le ts th nt ng es ue to
he vm is ed of ve ry ms at re ed to fy ne ct ry st ll er es .
he al et ed on is et as a er te er th 23 ts .
he ut es to he vm of he id em re ly 23 - al rs .
he ng es in le 23 nt he pu me on a us hz pu .
he ts of he al et ed er 23 , 23 , 23 es re ed in he le .
he rk is ly er - ed th re an 23 es ( no on as ed in he nt ) .
he vm in he id em is ed er he es ed om he rk ed th 23 es .
he nt of he on is al er he al et ne .
te he ve ty of he sk ( no on on , rm ck - ds , ly 23 es of ns ) , he vm ms er ly .
ly , it re a ry ge nt of pu me or ng nd ng .
he al et es he me or te as he vm th 23 es ss ng me .
er ng es he or te .
it is ng at te ts ep re , ts on - ex ss , he al ce of it on , nd a ck of ht er - on ds , he al et is th er nd er an an vm .
23 ts on he ed - ed et
he ts on is et re wn in le 23
to fy he 23 es , 23 ry ( ne vs .
rs ) vm ub - rs re ed ly , ch th he ll et of 23 , 23 es .
he ng es re aw 23 23 el ge rs ed to a 23 , 23 - al ut or , th es en 23 to 23
ms ve ly ew ee rs to ne or to ng .
in he se of an ls , ne an se ( an el es ) nd c ( ty nt ) at ld st ts by id ng .
a er ng st or te of 3% is ed on is et , as wn in he st mn of le 23
he ng me ds
3% 3% 3% 3%
ep ze =
23 - 23
le 23 : ng or es nd ng / ng gs on he ed - ed et of nt ds .
he ng is ed to al hz le pu .
he al ts ve le ts th nt ng es ue to ts ve
ly on he ue of or an el ms .
he ts re un on a 23 - pu ( hz ) er , nd he ng on is ed to a al hz le pu to ke he nt ul .
or he al et et - 23 , we ed ts er nt er of es ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) nd ir ng on .
he st or te ns ut at 3% er ut 23 es .
no nt er - ng as ed , nd no ly ng as ed .
ne er ng he ng re st be ly ho - en : he al ep ze of he ic nt re .
st ts re ed by ng a le in ch is ep ze is ly ed .
a ll on of ne ta le gh he rk es ut 23 il - on ly - dd ns .
ng he al et is ly le ce le ns an be ed ly , nd ch on an be ed ly on ub - ns of he rs .
he al ts re ly ry nt .
he ng me es ly th et ze in ce , nd he ng an be ne in al - me at a te of a ew es er
he rd mn ws he lt of a id em in ch he st er of he al et as ed by a an vm er ng .
he ng nd ng es re ed th he al et ed er 23 es .
he te er of he rk as 23 ts , re he es re 23 - al .
he ms ed on es ed om he al et ld an or te of 3% , a nt nt er er od ne .
by po - ng a ed re or to he el on , he vm as ed le to ge th he ty to se ow - el ly al es nd at he me me ep ll he es of a ge in er .
he or ce of vm th an ls on aw ls is ot ex - ed .
as we ed ut in us ns , a an el vm ly om - es ng es ( ed on an ce ) en he ng rn nd
es om he ng et .
is al te ng is ry ve to ri - ns in on , se , nd on .
re ly , st of he ls in a rb ge re ly on he nd er , er an on he ct to be ed .
ce he te ng es re ed by nt li - es of he nd .
is ts to a al cy of rd el ds : ir ty to ct nt ut es , nd re nt es .
ms ve ed es ed by on ds , ty on - ol gh in on , a ex ss on , nd al on es .
by st , al ts ve no on ds ( nd he st al vc ds ) , no it on , a ly on - ex ss nc - on , nd no im to ty .
et he al ts th rb ow at al ts re re te an an ms by a or of 23 , er to in by a ge or ( 23 to 23 ) , nd er to un by a or of 23
is rk as ed by ur ts or ng ms at ld ad - ss he ge of ai , ch de al ty , al la - ty nd an - or ty .
se he et of ks ed in ai is ly se , ng a te on or ch sk ms al .
we ve ed ny ns of el es nd er ow es .
ch es re nt or ng ex , ly - ng ns , ch we ve re ry or ai - ed ks ch as nt on .
ne on as ed on he ll - wn th - th ff in ts de - gn ad ( 23 ) .
is ts at ny ns an be ch re ly ed th er es , en th a st er of ls ( e . g . , og - ic in he er of ts ) .
he nd on ds al es of he se of en - ty .
it es to al ls ch as he an el , in ch k ( x , xi ) an be en as a te er .
it ls us at es ng on al ls an be ry nt at ng ns at ve ny ns , i . e . , nc - ns at re ot ly th ( ut ay ll be ly th ) .
ed , it ld be ed at el es re le re an ed - up te rs .
a rd on ns to he al st of ng .
in ry , he on - ex on ed th el ne ng ds nt on nd le ts .
ly , st nt ms re ( at st ) ic in he er of es .
is ly es ir on to ry ge - le ts or ch ar - or ar - me ms re ed ( ly or on - ne ng ) .
is em is at ed by nt ss th on - ne ms or el es ( e . g . , ee ( es et al . , 23 ) ) , ut re ns he on of he se in he er of rt rs as he er of es
a th nd st us on , ch ws om he st ( ss ) nd nd ( ty ) ns to cy in on .
ow es nd al rs re ly oo nt ( in ms of ed er of es nd
le ts ) to nt ny ct ns of st .
ly , is es em le if ur al is to rn he ai - et .
we do ot an to st at el es ve no ce in ai .
or le , ur ts st at om - ng a ep re th a el ne at es he er - el ed on as ut an be te ul .
ng he on om ls to gh - el es re ng an vm is in ct a ay to rn he el .
we do st at ne ng rs ng at he ai em ld ti - te es at do ot ve he al ns of el es , nd ep es re by on ot ow nd ly ot al as ll .
il ly , ny ed at ng ep es as oo lt an on em .
er , at st wo nt es ve ed ll in ng ch es : le nt nt ed to al et - ks ( un et al . , 23 , un et al . , 23 ) ( or ls nd es ) , nd re ly , er - by - er ed ng ed by nt nt ( on et al . , 23 , io et al . , 23 , to et al . , 23 ) .
ch on ep es is in ts cy , nd er ng ms or ep es in to be is - ed .
ng a er ve on he ve of ng ng es at an ad to ai as en a ng ve of is rk .
we pe to ve ed re rs to ek a on to he em of ng ne ng ds ai .
we nk ff on or ur us ns th im nd he al om - on nd ve on am of he an te of ed re - ch or ng em le .
we sh to nk fu - ie ng or ng ch of he ts in on 23 , nd ns - er af nd ic to nd ir ab - rs or ng us se ir el on of vm .
we nk on ou or is ce nd or ul ts .
we nk it ra , er au , ia ll , go le , as le ux , io to , or ng us to ke ss ds he as ed re .
is ct as ed by sf ts no .
23 nd no .
23 , by rc , he da ch rs , nd he cs ce .
