ral ine ion is a tly sed ach to ine sla - ion .
ike the nal cal ine ion , the ral ine ion ims at ing a gle ral ork hat can be tly ned to ize the ion nce .
the els sed tly for neu - ral ine ion ten ong to a ily of ers and ode a rce nce nto a xed - gth tor rom ich a der tes a ion .
in his per , we ure hat the use of a xed - gth tor is a eck in ing the nce of his sic der tec - ure , and ose to end his by ing a del to lly ( oft - ) rch for rts of a rce nce hat are ant to ing a get ord , out ing to orm ese rts as a ard ent tly .
ith his new ach , we eve a ion nce ble to the ing ate - of - the - art ase - sed tem on the ask of ish - to - nch ion .
ore , ive sis als hat the ( oft - ) nts und by the del ree ell ith our ion .
ral ine ion is a wly ing ach to ine ion , tly sed by ner and som ( 123 ) , ver et al .
( 123 ) and cho et al .
( 23b ) .
ike the nal ase - sed ion tem ( see , e . g . , ehn et al . , 123 ) ich sts of any all sub - nts hat are ned ely , ral ine ion pts to ild and ain a gle , rge ral ork hat ads a nce and uts a ect ion .
ost of the sed ral ine ion els ong to a ily of der ers ( ver et al . , 23; cho et al . , 23a ) , ith an der and a der for ach lan - age , or lve a age - cic der ied to ach nce ose uts are hen com - red ( ann and som , 123 ) .
an der ral ork ads and des a rce sen - nce nto a xed - gth tor .
a der hen uts a ion rom the ded tor .
the ole der tem , ich sts of the der and the der for a age air , is tly ned to ize the ity of a ect ion ven a rce nce .
a ial sue ith his der ach is hat a ral ork eds to be ble to ess all the ary ion of a rce nce nto a xed - gth tor .
his may ake it ult for the ral ork to ope ith ong ces , lly ose hat are ger han the ces in the ing pus .
cho et al .
( 23b ) wed hat eed the nce of a sic der tes dly as the gth of an put nce ses .
in der to ess his sue , we uce an ion to the der del ich rns to ign and ate tly .
ach ime the sed del tes a ord in a ion , it ( oft - ) hes for a set of ons in a rce nce ere the ost ant ion is ted .
the del hen cts a get ord sed on the ext ors ted ith ese rce ons and all the ous ted get rds .
far ior low
hed as a nce per at clr 123
the ost ant ing ure of his ach rom the sic der is hat it oes not mpt to ode a ole put nce nto a gle xed - gth tor .
ead , it en - des the put nce nto a nce of ors and ses a set of ese ors ely ile ing the ion .
his ees a ral ion del rom ing to ash all the ion of a rce nce , ess of its gth , nto a xed - gth tor .
we how his ows a del to ope ter ith ong ces .
in his per , we how hat the sed ach of tly ing to ign and ate ves tly ved ion nce ver the sic der ach .
the im - ent is ore ent ith ger ces , but can be ved ith ces of any gth .
on the ask of ish - to - nch ion , the sed ach ves , ith a gle del , a ion nce ble , or ose , to the nal ase - sed tem .
ore , ive sis als hat the sed del nds a lly ble ( oft - ) ent een a rce nce and the ing get nce .
123 und : ral ine ion
rom a tic ive , ion is ent to ing a get nce y hat max - zes the nal ity of y ven a rce nce x , i . e . , arg axy p ( y | x ) .
ral ine ion , we t a zed del to ize the nal ity of nce irs ing a lel ing pus .
nce the nal ion is ned by a ion del , ven a rce nce a ing ion can be ted by ing for the nce hat zes the nal ity .
tly , a ber of ers ave sed the use of ral rks to tly arn his ndi - nal ion ( see , e . g . , ner and som , 23; cho et al . , 3a; ver et al . , 23; cho et al . , 3b; ada and eco , 123 ) .
his ral ine ion ach typ - lly sts of two nts , the rst of ich des a rce nce x and the ond des to a get nce y .
for nce , two ent ral rks ( rnn ) ere sed by ( cho et al . , 23a ) and ( ver et al . , 123 ) to ode a ble - gth rce nce nto a xed - gth tor and to ode the tor nto a ble - gth get nce .
ite ing a ite new ach , ral ine ion has ady own ing lts .
ver et al .
( 123 ) ted hat the ral ine ion sed on nns ith ong ort - erm ory ( stm ) its ves ose to the ate - of - the - art nce of the nal ase - sed ine ion tem on an ish - to - nch ion ask . 123 ing ral nts to ing ion ems , for nce , to ore the ase irs in the ase ble ( cho et al . , 23a ) or to re - ank ate ons ( ver et al . , 123 ) , has wed to ass the ous ate - of - the - art nce vel .
123 rnn der
ere , we ibe iey the ing ork , led rnn der , sed by cho et al .
( 23a ) and ver et al .
( 123 ) pon ich we ild a vel ure hat rns to ign and ate sly .
in the der ork , an der ads the put nce , a nce of ors x = ( 123 , , xtx ) , nto a tor c . 123 the ost mon ach is to use an rnn uch hat
ht = f ( xt , 123 )
ere ht rn is a den ate at ime t , and c is a tor ted rom the nce of the den tes .
f and q are ome ear ons .
ver et al .
( 123 ) sed an stm as f and q ( ( 123 , , ht ) ) = ht , for nce .
c = q ( ( 123 , , htx ) ) ,
123 we ean by the ate - of - the - art nce , the nce of the nal ase - sed tem
out ing any ral ork - sed ent .
123 ugh ost of the ous rks ( see , e . g . , cho et al . , 3a; ver et al . , 23; ner and som , 123 ) sed to ode a ble - gth put nce nto a xed - gth tor , it is not ary , and ven it may be ial to ave a ble - gth tor , as we ill how ter .
hed as a nce per at clr 123
the der is ten ned to ict the ext ord yt ( cid : 123 ) ven the ext tor c and all the sly ted rds ( 123 , , yt ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) .
in her rds , the der nes a ity ver the ion y by ing the int ity nto the red als :
ere y = ( cid : 123 ) 123 , , yty
p ( yt | ( 123 , , 123 ) , c ) ,
( cid : 123 ) .
ith an rnn , ach nal ity is led as
p ( yt | ( 123 , , 123 ) , c ) = g ( 123 , st , c ) ,
ere g is a ear , lly lti - red , ion hat uts the ity of yt , and st is the den ate of the rnn .
it uld be ted hat her res uch as a rid of an rnn and a de - nal ral ork can be sed ( ner and som , 123 ) .
123 ing to ign and ate
in his ion , we ose a vel ure for ral ine ion .
the new ure sts of a nal rnn as an der ( sec .
123 ) and a der hat tes ing ugh a rce nce ing ing a ion ( sec
123 der : ral ion
in a new del ure , we ene ach nal ity in eq .
( 123 ) as :
p ( 123 , .
, 123 , x ) = g ( 123 , si , ci ) ,
ere si is an rnn den ate for ime i , ted by
si = f ( 123 , 123 , ci ) .
it uld be ted hat ike the ing der ap - ach ( see eq .
( 123 ) ) , ere the ity is ned on a nct ext tor ci for ach get ord yi .
the ext tor ci nds on a nce of ons ( 123 , , htx ) to ich an der aps the put nce .
ach ion hi ins ion out the ole put nce ith a ong cus on the rts ing the i - th ord of the put nce .
we ain in ail how the ons are com - ted in the ext ion .
the ext tor ci is , hen , ted as a ted sum of ese
ure 123 : the cal lus - ion of the sed del ing to ate the t - th tar - get ord yt ven a rce nce ( 123 , 123 , .
, xt ) .
the ght ij of ach ion hj is ted by
123 exp ( eik )
eij = a ( 123 , hj )
is an ent del ich res how ell the uts und ion j and the put at ion i tch .
the ore is sed on the rnn den ate 123 ( ust ore ing yi , eq .
( 123 ) ) and the j - th ion hj of the put nce .
we ize the ent del a as a ard ral ork ich is tly ned ith all the her nts of the sed tem .
ote hat ike in nal ine ion ,
t+t , 23t , 23t , 23t , tyt - tst - 3st hed as a nce per at clr 123
the ent is not red to be a ent ble .
ead , the ent del tly com - tes a oft ent , ich ows the ent of the ost ion to be ted ugh .
his ent can be sed to ain the ent del as ell as the ole ion del tly .
we can and the ach of ing a ted sum of all the ons as ing an ted ion , ere the ion is ver ble nts .
let ij be a ity hat the get ord yi is ned to , or ted rom , a rce ord xj .
hen , the i - th ext tor ci is the ted ion ver all the ons ith ies ij .
the ity ij , or its ted rgy eij , cts the nce of the ion hj ith ect to the ous den ate 123 in ing the ext ate si and ing yi .
ely , his nts a ism of ion in the der .
the der des rts of the rce nce to pay ion to .
by ing the der ave an ion ism , we eve the der rom the den of ing to ode all ion in the rce nce nto a xed - gth tor .
ith his new ach the ion can be ead out the nce of ons , ich can be ely ved by the der gly .
123 der : nal rnn for ing ces
the ual rnn , bed in eq .
( 123 ) , ads an put nce x in der ing rom the rst bol 123 to the ast one xtx .
ver , in the sed eme , we uld ike the ion of ach ord to ize not nly the ing rds , but lso the ing rds .
nce , we ose to use a nal rnn ( rnn , ter and wal , 123 ) , ich has een lly sed tly in ech ion ( see , e . g . , ves et al . , 123 ) .
a rnn sts of ard and ard nns .
the ard rnn as it is red ( rom 123 to xtx ) and tes a nce of ard den tes ( the ard rnn nce of ard den tes (
f ads the put nce
h tx ) .
f ads the nce in the rse der ( rom xtx to 123 ) , ing in a
h 123 , ,
h 123 , ,
h tx ) .
h j , i . e . , hj =
we ain an ion for ach ord xj by ing the ard den ate h j and the .
in his way , the ion hj ins the ies of oth the ing rds and the ing rds .
due to the ncy of nns to ter ent ent uts , the ion hj ill be sed on the rds und xj .
his nce of ons is sed by the der and the ent del ter to ute the ext tor see fig .
123 for the cal ion of the sed del .
123 ent ngs
we ate the sed ach on the ask of ish - to - nch ion .
we use the lin - ual , lel ora ded by acl wmt 123 as a son , we lso ort the for - nce of an rnn der ich was sed tly by cho et al .
( 23a ) .
we use the ame ing res and the ame set for oth els . 123
wmt 123 ins the ing ish - nch lel ora : arl ( 23m rds ) , ews ary ( 23m ) , un ( 23m ) and two led ora of 23m and 23m rds ely , ing 23m rds .
ing the ure bed in cho et al .
( 23a ) , we uce the ize of the ned pus to ave 23m rds ing the ata ion hod by rod et al .
( 123 ) . 123 we do not use any ual ata her han the ned lel ora , ugh it may be ble to use a uch ger ual pus to ain an der .
we ate ews - est -
123 ons are ble at tps : / / hub . com / isa - hog / hog .
123 ble ine at ttp : / / www - ium . niv - ans . fr / enk / per / .
hed as a nce per at clr 123
ure 123 : the leu res of the ted ons on the est set ith ect to the ths of the sen - ces .
the lts are on est set ich in - des ces ing un - own rds to the els .
123 and ews - est - 123 to ake a ent ( ion ) set , and ate the els on the est set ( ews - est - 123 ) rom wmt 123 , ich sts of 123 ces not ent in the ing ter a ual 123 , we use a ist of 123 , 123 ost ent rds in ach age to ain our els .
any ord not ded in the ist is ped to a ial ken ( ( unk ) ) .
we do not ply any her ial ing , uch as ing or ing , to the ata .
we ain two pes of els .
the rst one is an rnn der ( dec , cho et al . , 23a ) , and the her is the sed del , to ich we fer as rch .
we ain ach del ice : rst ith the ces of gth up to 123 rds ( dec - 123 , rch - 123 ) and hen ith the ces of gth up to 123 ord ( dec - 123 , rch - 123 ) .
the der and der of the dec ave 123 den its ach . 123 the der of the rch sts of ard and ard ent ral rks ( rnn ) ach ing 123 den its .
its der has 123 den its .
in oth ses , we use a yer ork ith a gle out ( low et al . , 123 ) den yer to ute the nal ity of ach get ord ( anu et al . , 123 ) .
we use a tch tic ent ent ( sgd ) thm her ith lta ( ler , 123 ) to ain ach del .
ach sgd ate ion is ted ing a tch of 123 sen - ces .
we ned ach del for ely 123 ays .
nce a del is ned , we use a eam rch to nd a ion hat ely zes the nal ity ( see , e . g . , ves , 23; ger - ski et al . , 123 ) .
ver et al .
( 123 ) sed his ach to ate ons rom eir ral ine ion del .
for ore ils on the res of the els and ing ure sed in the nts , see ces a and b .
123 ive lts
in ble 123 , we ist the ion ces red in leu ore .
it is ear rom the ble hat in all the ses , the sed rch rms the nal dec .
ore tly , the nce of the rch is as igh as hat of the nal ase - sed ion tem ( ses ) , hen nly the ces ing of own rds are red .
his is a ant ent , ing hat ses ses a ate ual pus ( 23m rds ) in ion to the lel ora we sed to ain the rch and dec .
123 we sed the ion ipt rom the pen - rce ine ion age , ses .
123 in his per , by a den nit , we ays ean the ted den nit ( see dix a . 123 ) .
rch - rch - enc - enc - 123 hed as a nce per at clr 123
ure 123 : our ple nts und by rch - 123
the x - xis and y - xis of ach lot ond to the rds in the rce nce ( ish ) and the ted ion ( nch ) , ely .
ach xel ows the ght ij of the ion of the j - th rce ord for the i - th get ord ( see eq .
( 123 ) ) , in ale ( 123 : ack , 123 : ite ) .
( a ) an ary nce .
( bd ) ree mly ted les ong the ces out any own rds and of gth een 123 and 123 rds rom the est set .
one of the ons ind the sed ach was the use of a xed - gth ext tor in the sic der ach .
we red hat his ion may ake the sic der ach to orm ith ong ces .
in fig .
123 , we see hat the for - nce of dec lly ops as the gth of the ces ses .
on the her and , oth rch - 123 and rch - 123 are ore ust to the gth of the ces .
rch - 123 , lly , ows no nce ion ven ith ces of gth 123 or ore .
his ity of the sed del ver the sic der is her med by the act hat the rch - 123 ven rms dec - 123 ( see ble 123 ) .
d>l ' nts . uel ' del ' ent . ons . del ' ues . nd> " ily , " aid . nd> " lle " , itl ' mme . nd> hed as a nce per at clr 123
ble 123 : leu res of the ned els com - ted on the est set .
the ond and ird mns how ely the res on all the ces and , on the ces out any own ord in hem - ves and in the nce ons .
ote hat rch - 123 ( cid : 123 ) was ned uch ger til the nce on the ent set ped rov - ing .
( ) we wed the els to ate ( unk ) ens hen nly the ces ing no own rds ere ted ( ast umn ) .
123 ive sis
the sed ach des an ive way to ect the ( oft - ) ent een the rds in a ted ion and ose in a rce nce .
his is one by ing the ion hts ij rom eq .
( 123 ) , as in fig .
ach row of a rix in ach lot tes the hts ted ith the ons .
rom his we see ich ons in the rce nce ere red ore ant hen ing the get ord .
we can see rom the nts in fig .
123 hat the ent of rds een ish and nch is ely nic .
we see ong hts ong the nal of ach rix .
ver , we lso rve a ber of non - ial , non - nic nts .
ves and uns are lly red tly een nch and ish , and we see an ple in fig .
rom his ure , we see hat the del tly tes a ase ( ean mic rea ) nto ( one que een ) .
the rch was ble to tly ign ( one ) ith ( rea ) , ing ver the two rds ( ( ean ) and ( mic ) ) , and hen ked one ord ack at a ime to ete the ole ase ( one que nne ) .
the gth of the oft - ent , sed to a ard - ent , is ent , for nce , rom fig .
der the rce ase ( the man ) ich was ted nto ( l mme ) .
any ard ent ill map ( the ) to ( l ) and ( man ) to ( mme ) .
his is not ful for ion , as one ust der the ord ing ( the ) to ine her it uld be ted nto ( le ) , ( la ) , ( les ) or ( l ) .
our oft - ent ves his sue lly by ing the del ook at oth ( the ) and ( man ) , and in his ple , we see hat the del was ble to tly ate ( the ) nto ( l ) .
we rve lar ors in all the ted ses in fig .
an nal net of the oft ign - ent is hat it lly als ith rce and get ses of ent ths , out ing a ter - ive way of ing ome rds to or rom ere ( ( ull ) ) ( see , e . g . , ers 123 and 123 of ehn , 123 ) .
123 . 123 ong ces
as rly ble rom fig .
123 the sed del ( rch ) is uch ter han the nal del ( dec ) at ing ong ces .
his is ely due to the act hat the rch oes not ire ing a ong nce nto a xed - gth tor tly , but nly ely ing the rts of the put nce hat und a lar ord .
as an ple , der his rce nce rom the est set :
an ing ege is the ght of a tor to mit a ent to a tal or a cal tre to rry out a sis or a ure , sed on his tus as a lth are ker at a tal .
the dec - 123 ted his nce nto :
un ege ion est le oit dun cin de tre un ent `a tal ou un tre cal dun tic ou de dre un tic en ion de son tat de nte .
hed as a nce per at clr 123
the dec - 123 tly ted the rce nce til ( a cal ter ) .
ver , rom ere on ( ned ) , it ted rom the nal ing of the rce nce .
for nce , it ced ( sed on his tus as a lth are ker at a tal ) in the rce nce ith ( en ion de son tat de nte ) ( sed on his ate of lth ) .
on the her and , the rch - 123 ted the ing ect ion , ing the ole ing of the put nce out ing any ils :
un ege ion est le oit dun cin tre un ent `a un tal ou un tre cal our uer un tic ou une ure , lon son tut de eur des ins de nte `a tal .
let us der her nce rom the est set :
his ind of nce is art of eys rts to end the ime of its ies and ild new ips ith ces via tal rms hat are ing ver ore ant , he ded .
the ion by the dec - 123 is
ce ype nce ait tie des ves du ney our ger la ree de vie de ses les et de per des ens vec les urs ues qui ent lus xes .
as ith the ous ple , the dec gan ing rom the ual ing of the rce nce ter ing ely 123 rds ( see the ned ase ) .
ter hat int , the ity of the ion tes , ith sic kes uch as the ack of a ing ain , the rch - 123 was ble to ate his ong nce tly :
ce nre nce ait tie des rts de ney our ger la ree de vie de ses ies et eer de les ons vec des ics via des mes ues de lus en lus tes , a - t - il ute .
in ion ith the ive lts ted ady , ese ive ons con - rm our ses hat the rch ure les far ore ble ion of ong ces han the ard dec del .
in dix c , we ide a few ore ple ons of ong rce ces ted by the dec - 123 , rch - 123 and gle ate ong ith the nce ons .
123 ted ork
123 ing to ign
a lar ach of ing an put bol ith an put bol was sed tly by ves ( 123 ) in the ext of ing sis .
ing sis is a ask ere the del is ked to ate ing of a ven nce of ers .
in his ork , he sed a ure of ian els to ute the hts of the ons , ere the ion , dth and ure ent of ach nel was ted rom an ent del .
ore lly , his ent was ted to ict the ion uch hat the ion ses lly .
the ain nce rom our ach is hat , in ( ves , 123 ) , the des of the hts of the ons nly ove in one ion .
in the ext of ine ion , his is a ere imi - ion , as ( ong - nce ) ing is ten ded to ate a lly ect ion ( for nce , ish - to - man ) .
our ach , on the her and , res ing the ion ght of ery ord in the rce nce for ach ord in the ion .
his ack is not ere ith the ask of ion in ich ost of put and put ces are nly 123 rds .
ver , his may mit the ity of the sed eme to her sks .
hed as a nce per at clr 123
123 ral rks for ine ion
nce gio et al .
( 123 ) ced a ral tic age del ich ses a ral net - ork to del the nal ity of a ord ven a xed ber of the ing rds , ral rks ave ely een sed in ine ion .
ver , the ole of ral net - rks has een ely ted to ply ing a gle ure to an ing cal ine ion tem or to re - ank a ist of ate ons ded by an ing tem .
for nce , enk ( 123 ) sed ing a ard ral ork to ute the ore of a air of rce and get ses and to use the ore as an nal ure in the ase - sed cal ine ion tem .
ore tly , ner and som ( 123 ) and lin et al .
( 123 ) ted the ful use of the ral rks as a sub - ent of the ing ion tem .
lly , a ral ork ned as a get - ide age del has een sed to ore or ank a ist of ate ons ( see , e . g . , enk et al . , 123 ) .
ugh the ove hes ere own to ove the ion nce ver the ate - of - the - art ine ion ems , we are ore ted in a ore ous ive of ing a ely new ion tem sed on ral rks .
the ral ine ans - ion ach we der in his per is ore a cal ure rom ese ier rks .
her han ing a ral ork as a art of the ing tem , our del rks on its own and tes a ion rom a rce nce tly .
the nal ach to ral ine ion , led an der ach , en - des a ole put nce nto a xed - gth tor rom ich a ion ill be ded .
we red hat the use of a xed - gth ext tor is tic for ing ong sen - ces , sed on a ent cal udy ted by cho et al .
( 23b ) and get - die et al .
in his per , we sed a vel ure hat ses his sue .
we ded the sic der by ing a del ( oft - ) rch for a set of put rds , or eir ons com - ted by an der , hen ing ach get ord .
his ees the del rom ing to ode a ole rce nce nto a xed - gth tor , and lso ets the del cus nly on ion ant to the ion of the ext get ord .
his has a jor ive act on the ity of the ral ine ion tem to eld ood lts on ger ces .
ike ith the nal ine ion ems , all of the ces of the ion tem , ing the ent ism , are tly ned rds a ter log - ity of ing ect we ted the sed del , led rch , on the ask of ish - to - nch ion .
the ent led hat the sed rch rms the nal der del ( dec ) tly , ess of the nce gth and hat it is uch ore ro - ust to the gth of a rce nce .
rom the ive sis ere we ted the ( oft - ) ent ted by the rch , we ere ble to ude hat the del can cor - tly ign ach get ord ith the ant rds , or eir ons , in the rce nce as it ted a ect ion .
aps ore tly , the sed ach ved a ion nce ble to the ing ase - sed cal ine ion .
it is a ing ult , ing hat the sed ure , or the ole ily of ral ine ion , has nly een sed as tly as his ear .
we eve the ure sed ere is a ing tep ard ter ine ion and a ter ing of ral ges in ral .
one of ges eft for the ure is to ter dle own , or are rds .
his ill be red for the del to be ore ely sed and to tch the nce of ent ate - of - the - art ine ion ems in all xts .
hed as a nce per at clr 123
the ors uld ike to ank the ers of ano ( tra et al . , 23; ien et al . , 123 ) .
we dge the ort of the ing ies for rch ing and ing ort : erc , cul bec , ute ada , the ada rch irs and far .
bah - nau nks the ort rom net ent ems mbh .
we lso ank lix ill , art van oer , ean get - die , ine vin and tae - ho kim .
