we ore an nal egy for ing eep rks , sed on ing ers of ing ers ich are ned lly to ise ted ons of eir uts .
the ing thm is a ard ion on the ing of ary ers .
it is ver own on a ark of ion ems to eld tly wer ion ror , hus ing the nce gap ith eep ief rks ( dbn ) , and in ral ses ass - ing it .
her vel ons rnt in his ely sed ion lso elp ost the nce of ent svm ers .
ive nts how hat , ary to rdi - ary ers , ing ers are ble to arn bor - ike dge ors rom ral age hes and ger oke ors rom git ges .
his ork rly hes the lue of ing a ing ion as a ble sed ive to ide the ing of ful her vel ons .
eep ing , sed ure ing , eep ief rks , ers ,
it has een a ong eld ief in the eld of ral ork rch hat the ion of ral els of ity uld be key to tly del lex ips een les and to eve ter ion nce on ult ion sks ( and et al . , 23; ton , 23; off and zzi , 123 ) .
his int is ted in art by dge
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 cal ent , ugo lle , lle oie , hua gio and rre - ine gol .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
of the red ure of ons of the man ain uch as the ual tex , and in art by a ody of cal nts in its vor ( tad , 23; tad and ann , 23; gio and cun , 23; gio , 123 ) .
yet , ing ack at the ory of lti - yer ral rks , eir tic non - vex ion has for a ong ime ted ing the ted ets ( gio et al . , 23; gio , 123 ) of ing ond one or two den ers . 123 tly uch of ine ing rch has een ess in low res ing for vex ion , ile the ult lem of ing in eep rks was eft ant .
the ent val of est in uch eep res is due to the ery of vel ap - hes ( ton et al . , 23; ton and nov , 23; gio et al . , 23; ato et al . , 23; lee et al . , 123 ) hat ved ful at ing eir ers .
ral ive ech - ues and nts ave een ted nce the nal ork on eep ief rks ( dbn ) by ton et al .
( 123 ) and ton and nov ( 123 ) .
all ear ver to ild on the ame ple hat we may ize as ows :
ing a eep ork to tly ize nly the sed ive of est ( for ex - ple the log ity of ect ion ) by ent ent , ing rom dom zed ers , oes not ork ery ell .
hat rks uch ter is to lly use a cal sed ion to ( pre ) ain ach yer in urn , ith the oal of ing to uce a ful her - vel ion rom the wer - vel ion put by the ous yer .
rom his ing int on , ent ent on the sed ive ads to uch ter ons in rms of ion
eep red rks ned in his ion ave een own lly to oid ing uck in the ind of oor ons one lly hes ith nly dom ons .
see han et al .
( 123 ) for an in pth cal udy and ion ing ble ons for the non .
in ion to the sed ion ant to the ask , hat ars to be key is ing an nal sed ion to ide the ing at ach yer .
in his nse , ese ues ear uch in mon ith the emi - sed ing ach , ept hat hey are ful ven in the rio ere all les are led , ing the put art of the ata to ize , hus ing ter ima of ion ror ( han et al . , 123 ) .
ere is yet no ear ing of hat tes ood ons for ing eep res or hat cit sed ria may est ide eir ing .
we now but a few hms hat ork ell for his ose , ing ith ted ann nes ( bms ) ( ton et al . , 23; ton and nov , 23; lee et al . , 123 ) , and ers ( gio et al . , 23; ato et al . , 123 ) , but lso emi - sed ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) and nel pca ( cho and aul , 123 ) .
it is rth ing ere hat bms ( ton , 23; sky , 123 ) and sic cal ers are ery lar in eir nal orm , ugh eir ion and the pro - res sed for ing hem are ite ent .
ore lly , the tic ion hat aps rom put to ean den ion , led low in ion 123 , is the ame for oth els .
one ant nce is hat tic ers der hat eal ued
ere is a ble ion to his in the ore zed nal ork ure of cun et al .
( 123 ) .
ked ing ers
ean as eir den ion eas tic bms ple a ary den nta - ion rom hat ean .
ver , ter eir ial ing , the way ers of bms are lly sed in ice hen ked in a eep ral ork is by ing ese eal - ued ans ( ton et al . , 23; ton and nov , 123 ) .
his is ore in ine ith the tic der ion .
ote lso hat ion ror of an der can be een as an ion of the log - ood ent in an rbm , in a way hat is lar to the ima - ion ade by ing the ive nce tes for bms ( gio and eau , 123 ) .
it is hus not ing hat ing a eep ork by ing ers lds ost as ood a ion nce as hen ing bms ( gio et al . , 23; lle et al . , 23a ) .
but why is it nly ost as ood ? an ial ion of the rch ted ere was to nd a way to dge hat nce gap .
ith the der igm in ind , we gan an iry nto the ion of hat can ape a ood , ful ion .
we ere ing for sed ing les ely to ead to the ing of ure ors hat ect ant ure in the put rns .
ion 123 lks the der ong the nes of our ing .
ing rom the ple ive ion of ing ion , we ent a zed ion of the cal der , ore ing its ons .
his ads us in ion 123 to ate an ive ing ion , and ive the ing der del , for ich we lso ive a ble ive ric ion .
a ser ook at the red ise pes ill hen low us to ive a her ion of the ase del .
ion 123 ses ted ing rks and hes .
ion 123 nts nts hat ely udy the ure ors rnt by a gle - yer ing der der ous ons .
ion 123 bes nts ith lti - yer res ned by ing ing ers and res eir ion for - nce ith her ate - of - the - art els .
ion 123 is an mpt at ing ked ( ing ) ers nto cal ive els , to low for a ive son of ted les ith bns .
ion 123 zes our ngs and des our ork .
we ill be ing the ing ion out the cle :
dom les are ten in per ase , for ple , x .
if x is a dom tor , hen its jth ent ill be ted x j .
ary ors are ten in ase old .
for ple , a ion of a dom tor
x may be ten x .
ors are red umn ors .
ces are ten in ase old ( e . g . , w ) .
i tes the ity rix .
the ose of a tor x or a rix w is ten xt or wt ( not x or w ich may be
sed to fer to an ely ent tor or rix ) .
we use wer ase p and q to ote oth ity ity ons or ity ass
ons ing to ext .
let x and y two dom les ith nal ity p ( x ) and p ( y ) .
eir int
ity is ten p ( x , y ) and the nal p ( x|y ) .
we may use the ing mon nds hen ous : p ( x ) for p ( x = x ) ; p ( x|y ) for p ( x|y = y ) ( ing a nal ion ) and p ( x|y ) for p ( x = x|y = y ) .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
f , g , h , ill be sed for ary ons .
ion ( ete ase , p is ity ass ) : ep ( x ) ( f ( x ) ) = ( cid : 123 ) x p ( x = x ) f ( x ) .
ion ( ous ase , p is ity ity ) : ep ( x ) ( f ( x ) ) = r p ( x ) f ( x ) dx .
opy or ial opy : ih ( x ) = ih ( p ) = ep ( x ) ( log p ( x ) ) .
nal opy : ih ( x|y ) = ep ( x , y ) ( log p ( x|y ) ) .
ack - ler nce : dkl ( pkq ) = ep ( x ) ( log p ( x ) oss - opy : ih ( pkq ) = ep ( x ) ( ogq ( x ) ) = ih ( p ) + dkl ( pkq ) .
ual ion : i ( x;y ) = ih ( x ) ih ( x|y ) .
oid : s ( x ) = 123 lli ion ith ean : b ( ) .
by ion for tor les : x b ( ) ans
+ex and s ( x ) = ( s ( 123 ) , .
, s ( xd ) ) t .
i , xi b ( i ) .
123 ral tup
we der the cal sed ing tup ith a ing set of n ( put , get ) irs dn = ( ( x ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) .
, ( x ( n ) , t ( n ) ) ) , hat we ose to be an i . i . d .
ple rom an own ion q ( x , t ) ith ing als q ( x ) and q ( t ) .
we ote 123 ( x , t ) and 123 ( x ) the cal ons ned by the les in dn .
x is a d - nal dom tor ( lly in ird or in ( 123 , 123 ) d ) .
in his ork we are ily ned ith ing a new , her - vel ion y of x .
y is a d - nal dom tor ( lly in ird or in ( 123 , 123 ) d ) .
if d > d we ill alk of an ver - ete ion , eas it ill be med an der - ete ion if d < d .
y may be ked to x by a tic or tic ing q ( x;q ) zed by a tor of ers q
hat kes a ood ion ? rom ual ion to ers
rom the set we can ive an nal ion of a ood ion as one hat ill lly be ful for ing sks of est , in the nse hat it ill elp the tem kly eve her nce on ose sks han if it dnt rst ned to orm the nta - ion .
sed on the ive ure lly sed to ess thm nce , his ght be sed as a ood ion is one hat ill eld a ter ing ier .
nal ssi - ion nce ill eed lly be sed to ely are hms .
ver , if a son is to be rnt rom the ent ghs in eep ork ing ues , it is hat the ror nal rom a gle wly ned ion ask uld not be the nly nor ary ion sed to ide the ing of ons .
rst use it has een own men - lly hat ing by ing an sed ion , ous of the cic ion lem , can lly tly elp in lly ing ior nce for hat ica - ion lem .
ond it can be ued hat the ity of ans to kly ome ent in new sks lds on uch of hat hey ave rnt ior to ing ced ith hat ask .
in his ion , we gin ith the ple ion of ing ion and ess to lly
uce the nal der igm rom his ore ral age int .
ked ing ers
123 ing ion out the put
we are ted in ing a ( bly tic ) ing rom put x to a vel nta - ion y .
to ake his ore ise , let us ict ves to zed ngs q ( y|x ) = q ( x;q ) ith ers q one ral ion hat we may ect any ood ion to eet , at ast to ome ree , is to ain a ant unt of ion out the put .
it can be sed in ion - tic rms as ing the ual ion i ( x;y ) een an put dom ble x and its her vel ion y .
his is the max ple put ard by ker
hat we ant to arn .
ual ion can be sed nto an opy and a nal opy erm in two ent ays .
a rst ble ion is i ( x;y ) = ih ( y ) ih ( y|x ) ich ead ell and ski ( 123 ) to eir max ach to ent ent sis .
ere we ill art rom her ion : i ( x;y ) = ih ( x ) ih ( x|y ) .
nce ved put x mes rom an own ion q ( x ) on ich q has no nce , his kes ih ( x ) an own ant .
hus the max ple ces to :
i ( x;y ) = max
eq ( x , y ) ( log q ( x|y ) ) .
now for any ion p ( x|y ) we ill ave let us der a ric ion p ( x|y ;q
eq ( x , y ) ( log p ( x|y ) ) eq ( x , y ) ( log q ( x|y ) ) as can ily be own ing rom the rty hat for any two ons p and q we ave dkl ( qkp ) 123 , and in lar dkl ( q ( x|y = y ) kp ( x|y = y ) ) 123
) , zed by q
, and the ing
eq ( x , y ;q ) ( log p ( x|y ;q
rom ion 123 , we see hat his nds to ing a wer und on ih ( x|y ) and hus on the ual ion .
we uld end up ing the act ual ion ded s . t .
q ( x|y ) = p ( x|y ;q if , as is one in max ica , we her ict ves to a tic ing rom x to y , hat is , ion y is to be ted by a zed ion y = fq ( x ) or tly q ( x;q ) = d ( y fq ( x ) ) ( ere d tes rac - lta ) , hen his ion can be ten :
eq ( x ) ( log p ( x|y = fq ( x ) ;q
his ain nds to ing a wer und on the ual ion .
nce q ( x ) is own , but we ave les rom it , the cal age ver the ing
les can be sed ead as an sed ate ( i . e . , ing eq ( x ) by 123 ( x ) ) :
123 ( x ) ( log p ( x|y = fq ( x ) ;q
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
we ill see in the ext ion hat his ion nds to the ion ror ion
sed to ain ers .
123 nal ers ( ae ) ere we iey ify the nal der ( ae ) 123 ork and its ogy , sed on fq and p ( x|y ;q ion y is led the der .
its cal orm is an fne ing wed by a ity :
hat rms an put tor x nto den sen -
der : the tic ing fq
) ced ove .
fq ( x ) = s ( wx + b ) .
its ter set is q = ( w , b ) , ere w is a d d ght rix and b is an set tor of der : the ing den ion y is hen ped ack to a ted d - is led the der .
its cal nal tor z in put ace , z = gq orm is ain an fne ing lly wed by a ing non - ity , hat is , her
his ing gq
( y ) = wy + b or
ith ely zed ers q
( y ) = s ( wy + b ) ,
in ral z is not to be ted as an act ion of x , but her in tic rms as the ers ( lly the ean ) of a ion p ( x|z = z ) hat may ate x ith igh ity .
we ave hus ted the ion of p ( x|y ;q ) rom the ous ion as p ( x|y = y ) = p ( x|z = gq ( y ) ) .
his lds an ted ion ror to be zed :
l ( x , z ) ( cid : 123 ) log p ( x|z ) .
mon ces for p ( x|z ) and ted oss ion l ( x , z ) ude : for eal - ued x , hat is , x ird : x|z n ( z , s 23i ) , hat is , x j|z n ( z j , s 123 ) .
his lds l ( x , z ) = 123 ( x , z ) = c ( s 123 ) kx 123 ere c ( s 123 ) tes a ant hat nds nly on s 123 and hat can be red for the ion .
his is the red ror ive und in ost nal ers .
in his ing , due to the ian ion , it is ore ral not to use a ing ity in the der .
for ary x , hat is , x ( 123 , 123 ) d : x|z b ( z ) , hat is , x j|z b ( z j ) .
lly be sed in the der .
in his ase , the der eds to uce a z ( 123 , 123 ) d .
so a ing ity uch as a his lds l ( x , z ) = lih ( x , z ) = oid s ill j ( x j ogz j + ( 23x j ) log ( 23z j ) ) = ih ( b ( x ) kb ( z ) ) ich is med the oss - opy oss use it is een as the oss - opy een two ent ate lis , the rst ith ean x and the her ith ean z .
his oss can lso be sed hen x is not tly ary but her x ( 123 , 123 ) d .
ote : ers ( ae ) are lso ten led ors ( aa ) in the ure .
the ter der erm was red in his ork , as we eve ing ter eys the dea of ing a vel ful ion .
rly , hat we all ked uto ers ( sae ) has lso een led ked ors ( saa ) .
ked ing ers
ote hat in the ral der ork , we may use her rms of zed unc - ons for the der or der , and her ble ces of the oss ion ( ing to a ent p ( x|z ) ) .
in lar , we ted the ess of a ore lex ing ion in lle , han , and ent ( 23b ) .
for the nts in the ent ork ver , we ill ict ves to the two ual rms led ove , hat is , an oid der and her fne der ith red ror oss or oid der ith oss - opy oss .
a her int hat can lly be sed , and hat her els the ngs of bms , is ing ied hts een w and w , in ect ing w as w = w t .
der ing sts in ing the ion ror , hat is , ing the fol -
ere we ote z ( x ) to ize the act hat z is a tic ion of x , nce z is ned by ion of tic ing and ing .
ing his cit and ing our ion of oss l rom ion 123 his can be ten as :
123 ( x ) ( log p ( x|z = gq
( fq ( x ) ) ) ) ,
123 ( x ) ( log p ( x|y = fq ( x ) ;q
we see hat his ast ine nds to ion 123 , hat is , the ion of a wer und on the ual ion een x and y .
it can hus be aid hat ing an der to ize ion ror nts to ing a wer und on the ual ion een put x and rnt pre - ion y .
ely , if a ion ows a ood ion of its put , it ans hat it has ned uch of the ion hat was ent in hat put .
123 ely ing ion is not ugh
the ion hat ion y uld ain ion out put x is not by elf ent to eld a ful ion .
eed ual ion can be lly zed by ing y = x .
rly , an ary der ere y is of the ame ity as x ( or ger ) can eve ect ion ply by ing an ity ing . 123 out any her nts , his ion one is ely to ead to the ery of a ore ful ion han the put .
hus her nts eed to be ied to mpt to ate ful ion ( to be re - ned ) rom ise ( to be ded ) .
his ill lly ate to non - ero ion ror .
the nal ach to ers ses a eck to uce an der - ete pre - ion ere d < d .
the ing wer - nal y can hus be een as a ssy sed ion of x .
hen ing fne der and der out any ity and a red ror oss , the der lly rms pal ent sis ( pca ) as wed by
ore ely , it ces hat g f be the ity to ain ero ion ror .
for d = d if we had a ear der and der his uld be ved for any ble rix w by ing w = 123
now ere is a oid ity in the der , but it is ble to tay in the ear art of the oid ith all ugh w .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
ldi and nik ( 123 ) . 123 hen a ity uch as a oid is sed in the der , ngs ome a tle ore ted : ing the pca ace is a ely ity ( ard and amp , 123 ) nce it is ble to tay in the ear ime of the oid , but bly not the nly one ( icz et al . , 123 ) .
lso hen ing a oss - opy oss her han a red ror the ion ive is no ger the ame as hat of pca and ill ely arn ent res .
the use of ied hts can lso nge the ion : ing der and der ces to be ric and hus ave the ame ale can ake it der for the der to tay in the ear ime of its ity out ing a igh ice in ion ror .
ely it is lso ble to ose on y ent nts han hat of a wer ity .
in lar the ity of ing ver - ete ( i . e . , her nal han the put ) but rse ons has ved uch ion ely .
est in rse pre - ons is red in art by nce hat ral ity in the ain ems to be rse and has ned ing the nal ork of sen and eld ( 123 ) on rse ing .
her ons for rse ons ude the ity to dle ely ble - ize pre - ons ( ing nly the non - ros ) , and the act hat nse sed ons end to gle ion ( i . e . , ing a gle ect of the put lds ant ges in all nts of the ion ) eas rse nes can be ted to be ier to ret and to use for a ent ier .
ous ons of the nal der ork ave een sed in der to arn rse ons ( ato et al . , 123 , 123 ) .
ese ere own to act ery ful ons , rom ich it is ble to ild top ing eep ral ork ers .
a rse ver - ete ons can be wed as an ter - ive sed ion : it has cit ard ity due to the rge ber of ros her han an cit wer ity .
ing a ing ion
we ave een hat the ion ion one is ble to tee the ion of ful res as it can ead to the ous ion ply opy the put or rly ing nes hat lly zes ual ion .
one egy to oid his non is to ain the ion : the nal eck and the ore ent est on rse ons oth low his egy .
ere we ose and ore a ery ent egy .
her han ain the ion , we nge the ion ion for a oth ore ing and ore ing jec - ive : ing lly ted put , or in ort ing .
in ing so we ify the cit ion of a ood ion nto the ing : a ood ion is one hat can be ned tly rom a ted put and hat ill be ful for ing the ing ean put .
two ing eas are cit in his ach :
rst it is ted hat a her vel ion uld be her ble and ust der
ons of the put .
ond , it is ted hat ing the ing ask ell res ing res hat
ure ful ure in the put ion .
ore lly it ill nd the ame ace as pca , but the cic ion ons und ill in ral
not ond to the ual pal ons and eed not be mal .
ked ing ers
we ize ere hat our oal is not the ask of ing per se .
her ing is ad - ted and ted as a ing ion for ing to act ful res hat ill ute ter her vel ion .
the ess of a rnt ion can hen be sed ely by ing the acy of a ier hat ses it as put .
123 the ing der thm
his ach ads to a ery ple ant of the sic der bed ove .
a ing der ( dae ) is ned to uct a ean red put rom a ted ion of it ( the cic pes of ons we der ill be sed low ) .
his is one by rst ing the ial put x nto x by ans of a tic ing x qd ( x|x ) .
ted put x is hen ped , as ith the sic der , to a den ion ( y ) .
see ure 123 for a tic y = fq ( x ) = s ( wx + b ) rom ich we uct a z = gq ion of the ure .
ers q and q are ned to ize the age con - ion ror ver a ing set , hat is , to ave z as ose as ble to the ted put x .
the key nce is hat z is now a tic ion of x her han x .
as sly , the red ion ror is her the oss - opy oss lih ( x , z ) = ih ( b ( x ) kb ( z ) ) , ith an oid der , or the red ror oss 123 ( x , z ) = kx 123 , ith an fne der .
pa - ers are zed at dom and hen zed by tic ent ent .
ote hat ach ime a ing ple x is ted , a ent ted ion x of it is ted ing to qd ( x|x ) .
ote hat ing ers are ill ing the ame ion oss een a ean x and its ion rom y .
so his ill nts to ing a wer und on the ual ion een ean put x and ion y .
the nce is hat y is now ned by ing tic ing fq to a ted put .
it hus ces the ing of a far ore ver ing han the ity : one hat cts res ful for ing .
ure 123 : the ing der ure .
an ple x is lly ted ( via qd ) to x .
the der hen aps it to y ( via der fq ) and pts to uct , ing ion z .
ion ror is red by oss x via der gq
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
123 ric ion
the ess of ing , hat is , ing a ted ple ack to an ted one , can be ven an ive ric ion der the so - led old ion ( lle et al . , 123 ) , ich tes hat ral igh nal ata tes ose to a non - ear low - nal old .
his is ted in ure 123
ing ing ing , we arn a
tic tor p ( |ex ) hat aps a ted ex ack to its ted x , for ple , in the
ase of ary ata ,
( fq ( ex ) ) ) .
ted les are uch ore ely to be ide and her rom the old han the
ted nes .
hus tic tor p ( |ex ) rns a map hat nds to go rom wer rob - ity nts ex to rby igh ity nts x , on or ear the old .
ote hat hen ex is her rom the old , p ( |ex ) uld arn to ake ger eps , to ach the old
ful ing ies hat the tor aps ven far way nts to a all ion ose to the
the ing der can hus be een as a way to ene and arn a old .
in icu - lar , if we ain the ion of y to be ler han the ion of x , hen the ate ion y = f ( x ) may be ted as a ate tem for nts on the old .
ore lly , one can ink of y = f ( x ) as a ion of x ich is ell ted to ure the ain ons in the ata , hat is , ose ong the old .
123 pes of ion red
the ove ple and que can lly be sed ith any ype of ion ess .
lso the ion ess is an ous ace ere ior dge , if ble , uld be ily in - ted .
but in the ent udy we set to ate a que hat is lly ble
g ( f ( x ) )
qd ( x|x )
ure 123 : old ing ive .
ose ing ata ( ) ate ear a low - nal old .
ted les ( . ) ned by ing ion ess qd ( x|x ) ill lly lie her rom the old .
the del rns ith p ( |ex ) to ect hem ack ( via der gq ( fq ( ) ) ) nto the old .
ate rep - ion y = fq ( x ) may be ted as a ate tem for nts x on the
ked ing ers
lar we ant it to be ble for ing ver her vel ons by ing ois - ing ers .
now ile ior dge on ant ion ses may be ble in a lar put ace ( uch as ges ) , uch ior dge ill not be ble for the ace of ate - vel ons .
we ill hus ict our ion and nts to the ing ple ion pro -
is ced to 23;
ive pic ian ise ( gs ) : x|x n ( x , s 23i ) ; ing ise ( mn ) : a ion n of the nts of x ( sen at dom for ach ple ) alt - and - per ise ( sp ) : a ion n of the nts of x ( sen at dom for ach
ple ) is set to eir mum or mum ble lue ( lly 123 or 123 ) ing to a air oin ip .
ive ian ise is a ery mon ise del , and is a ral ice for eal val - ued uts .
the alt - and - per ise ill lso be red , as it is a ral ice for put ins ich are ble as ary or ear ary uch as ack and ite ges or the ons ced at the den yer ter a oid ing ion .
uch of our ork ver , oth for its ion and in nts , ses on ing ise ich can be wed as ing off nts red ing or ing eir lue by a ult hat is , a mon que for ing ing ues .
all ion out ese ked nts is hus ved rom hat lar put ern , and we can iew the ing der as ned to ll - in ese lly ced nks .
lso , lly , ing nts to ero ans hat hey are lly red in the ons of eam
we raw the ers ion to the act hat oth alt - and - per and ing ise sti - lly upt but a ion of the nts ile ing the ers hed .
ing , hat is , ing the ues of the ted nts , ill nly be ble nks to ies be - een ons in igh nal ons .
ing ing is hus ted to ure ese ies .
the ach bly kes ess nse for ery low nal ems , at ast ith ese pes of ion .
123 ion : ing an sis on ted ons
ise pes uch as ing ise and alt - and - per hat ase nly a ing set of the uts nts ile ing the ers hed est a ard ion of the ing der ion .
her han ing ual ght to the ion of all com - nts of the put , we can put an sis on the ted ons .
to eve his we ive a ent ght a hat ere eft hed .
a and b are red ers .
for the ion ror on nts hat ere ted , and b
for the red oss his lds
123 , a ( x , z ) = a ( cid : 123 )
( x j z j ) 123 ! + b ( cid : 123 )
( x j z j ) 123 ! ,
j / j ( x )
ere j ( x ) tes the xes of the nts of x hat ere ted .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
and for the oss - opy oss his lds
lih , a ( x , z ) = a ( cid : 123 )
( x j ogz j + ( 123 x j ) log ( 123 z j ) ) ! ( x j ogz j + ( 123 x j ) log ( 123 z j ) ) ! .
j / j ( x )
we all his ion zed ing der .
a ial ase hat we all ull sis is ned for a = 123 , b = 123 ere we nly ake nto unt the ror on the ion of ted nts .
123 ing ing ers to ild eep res
ing ing ers to ize a eep ork rks in uch the ame way as ack - ing bms in eep ief rks ( ton et al . , 23; ton and nov , 123 ) or ary ers ( gio et al . , 23; ato et al . , 23; lle et al . , 23a ) .
let us ify hat put ion is nly sed for the ial ing - ing of ach ual yer , so hat it may arn ful ure ors .
nce the ing fq has hus een rnt , it ill rth be sed on ted uts .
in lar no ion is ied to uce the ion hat ill rve as ean put for ing the ext yer .
the ete ure for ing and ing ral ers of ing ers is own in ure 123
nce a ack of ers has hus een ilt , its est vel put ion can be sed as put to a and - one sed ing thm , for ple a ort tor ine ier or a ( lti - ass ) tic ion .
ely , as ted in ure 123 , a tic ion yer can be ded on top of the ers , ing a eep ral ork ble to sed ing .
the ers of all ers can hen be sly ne - ned ing a ent - sed ure uch as tic ent ent .
ted hes in the ure
in his ion , we iey iew and uss ted ior ork ong ree ent xes .
123 ous ork on ing ral rks for ing
the dea of ing a lti - yer ron ing ror ion on a ing ask is not new .
the ach was rst ced by cun ( 123 ) and ari et al .
( 123 ) as an ive hod to arn an ( uto - ) ive ory lar to how eld rks ( eld , 123 ) ere ood .
the rks ere ned and ted on ary put rns , ted by ing a ion of put its sen at dom .
oth the del and ing ure in his ory ork are ery lar to the ing der we ibe . 123 our ion and oal are ver ite ent .
the ive of cun ( 123 ) was to udy the ity of uch a ork for ion sks , hat is , ing how any ing rns it was ble to
ere are a few nor es; for ple , the use of a red ror ter oid for ary ata , ile we end to use a oss - opy oss .
lso eir ing ure ers ing ral ent ses ugh the der ork , as in a ent net .
ked ing ers
ure 123 : ing ing ers .
ter ing a rst vel ing der ( see ure 123 ) its rnt ing ion fq is sed on ean put ( eft ) .
the ing ion is sed to ain a ond vel ing der ( dle ) to arn a ond vel ing ion f ( 123 )
rom ere , the ure can be ted ( ght ) .
ure 123 : ine - ing of a eep ork for ion .
ter ing a ack of ers as ned in the ous ure , an put yer is ded on top of the ack .
the ram - ers of the ole tem are ne - ned to ize the ror in ing the sed get ( e . g . , ass ) , by ing ent ent on a sed ost .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
tly all der ese ons .
the ork lso rly hed the ess of a non - ear den yer for his .
by ast , our ork is ted by the rch and ing of sed ing ria to ize eep rks .
our ary est is hus in ing the ity of the ing ion to arn ood ure ors , ith ich to ize a eep ork by ing and ing ese ure ors .
we cus on ing the rnt her - vel ons and eir ect on the ion nce of ing
her ful ork hat is ery uch ted to the ach ted ere is the rch of ung ( 123 ) , in ich a ent ral ork is ned to ete ted put rns ing ion ugh ime .
oth the ork of ung ( 123 ) and hat of cun ( 123 ) and ari et al .
( 123 ) ear to be red by eld - ype ive ies ( eld , 123 ) in ich rnt rns are ved as ive xed nts of a ent ork mic .
ung ( 123 ) tes a ery ing sis in rms of ous ors , nts out the ons of lar ing , and tes the ern ion ask as an ive to ity ion for sed ing .
ain , it ers orm our udy nly by its cus a ) on ent 123 and b ) on the age ing ask per se .
the ter ies eir use of ior dge of the 23d ogy of ges , oth in the ral ice of cal 23d ive eld ity , and in the ion ess hat sts in ing - out a are age tch at a dom ion .
his ion by a 23d tch is a ial orm of a red ing ise , ere the a - ori own 23d cal ure of ges is ken nto unt .
in our rch we ely ose not to use cal ior dge in our del nor in our ion ess , so hat the ame ric ure may be ied to arn her els of ion rom wer nes , or to her ins for ich we ave no uch cal ior dge .
ore tly ain and ung ( 123 ) ted a ery ing and ful ach for age ing , hat sts in yer - ise ing of a eep nal ral ork .
eir thm lds ble or ter nce han ate - of - the - art kov dom eld and let ods ped for age ing .
the ach rly has ots in eir ier ork ( ung , 123 ) and ars lso red by ore ent rch on eep ork ing , ing our own ups ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
but tly , her of us was lly are of the her ups ant ork on ing ( ent et al . , 23; ain and ung , 123 ) .
ain the cus of ung ( 123 ) on age ing per se ers rom our own cus on ing eep net - ork ing for ion sks and lts in ked ces in the ual hms .
lly , in ain and ung ( 123 ) ach yer in the ack is ned to uct the nal ean age a tle ter , ich kes nse for age ing .
his can be ted ith our ach , in ich per ers are ned to ise - and - uct ver ion hey ive rom the yer ely low , her han to ore the nal put age in one ion .
his lly ows rom our rch for a ric ure ion thm for ing , ere per vel ons ill lly be sed for a lly ent ask uch as ion .
ote ver hat a ent ork can be een as eep ork , ith the nal rty hat all ers are
the ame hts .
ked ing ers
123 ing ers ith isy uts
the dea of ing a ral ork ith isy put ( tar and zee , 23; von man et al . , 123 ) or ing ith ter as it is mes has een sed to nce iza - ion nce for sed ing sks ( sma and dow , 23; trm and nen , 23; an , 123 ) .
his ead of rch is ess tly ted to ers and ing han the ies sed in the ous ion .
it is ess ant .
ter all , ing nts to ing isy rns as put ith the ean ern as a sed get , eit a her igh di - nal one .
it has een ued hat ing ith ise is ent to ing zed nov ion ( hop , 123 ) .
on the ace , his may eem to est hat ing ith isy uts has a lar ect to ing ith an 123 ght cay lty ( i . e . , ing the sum of red hts ) , but his iew is ect .
nov ion ied to ear ion is eed ent to a 123 ght cay lty ( i . e . , dge ion ) .
but for a non - ear map - ing uch as a ral ork , nov ion is no ger so ple ( hop , 123 ) .
ore tly , in the non - ear ase , the nce of isy ing ith nov ion is ved rom a lor ies ion , and is hus nly lid in the mit of ery all ive ise .
see let et al .
( 123 ) for a cal udy and ion ing the ons of ity for his nce .
ast but not ast , our tal lts in ion 123 rly how ely ery ent lts hen ing ing ers ( i . e . , isy uts ) han hen ing lar ers ith a 123 ght cay .
ere , we ust lso ion a ell - own que to ove the ion nce of a ier ( ral ork or her ) , ich sts in ing the nal ing set ith nal ted uts , her tly ( ird , 23; gio and ter , 123 ) or lly ugh a ied thm ( ard et al . , 23; opf et al . , 123 ) .
for ter ges for nce uch ons may ude all ons , ons , ngs and ngs of the age , or ven ing a ner ise del .
his que can hus be een as ing ith isy ted uts , but ith a hly red ion ess sed on uch ior dge . 123 as ady ned and ted ove , our ent in his ork is to lop and ate a lly ble que , hat uld lso be ble to ate her vel ons .
hus we lly ict our udy to ery ple ric ion ses hat do not ate cit ior dge .
we lso ess the nce een the hes we ust sed , hat ist in ing a ral ork by ing a bal sed ion ing isy put , and the ach we ate in the ent ork , hat is , ing a cal sed ing ion to ain ach yer of the ork ith the oal to arn ful ate ons .
we all see in tal ion 123 hat the ter ied to a eep ork lds ter ion nce han the mer .
123 udo - ood and ncy rks
the iew of ing ing as ing in the nks hat ted the ing ise and the ion hat uts an sis on ted ons ted in ion 123 , can lso be re - ted to the udo - ood ( sag , 123 ) and ncy ork ( man et al . , 123 )
rly , ple nov ion not eve the ame as ing ith uch ior dge sed cor - ion ess .
his her tes the ion of the nce een ing ith ise and nov
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
gms .
ing udo - ood ead of ood ies ing the ood erm p ( x ) by the uct of als ( cid : 123 ) 123 p ( |xi ) .
ere xi tes the ith ent of put tor ble x and xi tes all nts but the ith .
rly , in the ncy ork ach of man et al .
( 123 ) one rns d nal ons , ach ned to ict ent i ven ( a set of ) all her nts .
his is in ect hat an zed ing der ith a ing ise hat sks but one put ent ( n = 123 d ) , and a ull sis ( a = 123 , b = 123 ) , is ned to do .
ore lly , for ary les it ill arn to ict p ( xi = |xi ) ; and hen ing red ror for eal - ued les it ill arn to ict e ( |xi ) ing |xi n ( e ( |xi ) , s 123 ) .
ote hat ith ing ers , all d nal ons are ned to are mon ers , ich ene the ing to and rom den ion y .
lso hen the sis is not lly put on the ted com - nts ( b > 123 ) ome of the rks ity ill be ted to ing / ing ted
a ore ant nce can be ted by ing the ing rio : hat ens if nts of the put ome in cal irs ? in hat ase , nal ion p ( |xi ) can ply arn to ate the her ent of the air , hus not ing any her lly ful ncy .
now for ncy rks his act rio is den by the mal ent hat no put ion may ave ero ity .
but a lar lem may cur in ice if the nts in a air are not cal but ery hly ted .
by ast , ing ers can and ill lly be ned ith a ger ion n of cor - ted nts , so hat ble ion of a ent not ely ely on a gle
nts on gle ing ers : ive ion of
ned ure ors
a rst ies of nts was ied out ing gle ing ers , hat is , out any ing nor sed ne ing .
the oal was to ine ely the ind of ure ors rnt by a ing ion , for ous ise pes , and are ese to hat ary
ure ors hat ond to the rst den yer of a ork ned on age ata are ard to ize .
ach den ron y j has an ted tor of hts w j hat it ses to ute a dot uct ith an put ple ( ore ing its non - ity ) .
ese w j ors , the ers , ave the ame ity as the put , and can hus be yed as tle ges ing hat cts of the put ach den ron is ive to .
123 ure ors rnt rom ral age hes we ned oth lar ers and ing ers on 123 hes rom ned ral ene ges , ade ble by sen ( sen and eld , 123 ) . 123 a few of ese hes are own in ure 123 ( eft ) .
for ese ral age hes , we sed a ear der and a red ion ost .
ork ers ere ned rom a dom art , 123 ing
ore lly mly ned 123 123 hes ere ted rom the 123 123 hes ade ble by 123
we ied the ual dom ion tic in ich hts are led tly orm a orm in
sen at the ing url : tps : / / ood . ley . edu / uno / net / .
nge ( nin
) ere nin in his ase is the put ion .
ked ing ers
tic ent ent to orm 123 ght tes ith a xed ing ate of 123 .
all ers own ere rom nts ith ied hts , but ied hts ded lar lts .
ure 123 ays ers rnt by a lar der - ete der hat sed a eck of 123 den its , as ell as ose rnt by an ver - ete der ing 123 den its .
ers ned in the der - ete ase ook ike ery cal lob ors .
no ear ure is ent in the ers rnt in the ver - ete ase .
ure 123 : lar der ned on ral age hes .
eft : ome of the 123 123 age hes sed for ing .
dle : ers rnt by a lar der - ete der ( 123 den its ) ing ied hts and 123 ion ror .
ght : ers rnt by a lar ver - ete der ( 123 den its ) .
the der - ete der ars to arn her ing cal lob ors .
ers ned in the ver - ete ase ave no ble ure , ing ely dom .
we hen ned 123 den its ver - ete ess ers zed ith 123 ght cay , as ell as 123 den its ing ers ith pic ian ise ( but no ght cay ) .
ing ers are own in ure 123
ote hat a ing der ith a ise vel of 123 is cal to a lar der .
so , lly , ers rnt by a ing der at all ise els ( not own ) ook ike ose ned ith a lar der sly own in ure 123
ith a tly rge ise vel ver ( s = 123 ) , the ing der rns bor - ike cal ted dge ors ( see ure 123 ) .
his is lar to hat is rnt by rse ing ( sen and eld , 123 , 123 ) , or ica ( ell and ski , 123 ) and les ple ell ive lds rom the ary ual tex rst ied by bel and sel ( 123 ) .
the 123 zed der on the her and rnt ing ing ond ing ome of the cal lob ors und in the der - ete ase .
ote hat we did try a ide nge of ues for the ion ter , 123 but ere ver ble to get bor - ike ers .
rom his ent , we see rly hat ing ith tly rge ise lds a ely ery ent ome han ing ith a ght cay ion , ich rms lly hat the two are not ent for a non - ear der , as sed ier in ion 123 .
ure 123 ows ome of the lts ned ith the her two ise pes red , hat is ,
alt - and - per ise , and ing - ise .
we ted ith 123 ion els n : 23% , 23% , 23% .
the ers own ere ned ing 123 den its , but lar ers ere und ith 123 or 123 den its .
alt - and - per ise ded bor - ike dge ors , eas ing ise 123
ted ght ays ues ere the ing : l ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ,
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
ure 123 : ght cay vs .
ian ise .
we how cal ers rnt rom ral age hes in the ver - ete ase ( 123 den its ) .
eft : lar der ith ght cay .
we ied a ide nge of ght - cay ues and ing tes : ers ver red to ure a ore ing ure han hat is own ere .
ote hat ome cal lob ors are red red to ing no ght cay at all ( ure 123 ght ) .
ght : a ing der ith ive ian ise ( s = 123 ) rns bor - ike cal ted dge ors .
rly the ers rnt are ely ery ent in the two ses .
ded a ure of dge ors and ing ers .
rly ent ion pes and els can eld ely ent ers .
but it is ing to ote hat all ree ise pes we ted ith ere ble to eld ome lly ful dge ors .
123 ure ors rnt rom ten its we lso ned ing ers on the 123 123 ray - ale ges of ten its rom the ist ata set .
for his ent , we sed ing ers ith ied hts , oss - opy ion ror , and ero - ing ise .
the oal was to ter and the ive ect of the ise vel .
so we ned ral ing ers , all ing rom the ame ial dom int in ght ace , but ith ent ise els .
ure 123 ows ome of the ing ers rnt and how hey are ted as we ase the vel of ion .
ith 23% ion , the ity of the ers ear lly dom , ith nly a few hat ize as tle ink lob ors .
ith sed ise els , a uch ger ion of ing ( bly non dom and ith a ear ure ) ure ors are rnt .
ese ude cal ted oke ors and ors of git rts uch as ops .
it was to be ted hat ing a ore ted put res ing ger , ess cal res : the ing uto - der ust ely on ger nge cal ies and ool nce rom a ger set of els .
gly , ers hat art rom the ame ial dom ght tor ten ook ike hey row rom dom , to cal lob tor , to tly ger ure ors uch as a oke tor , as we use sed ise els .
by row we ean hat the tly ger ure rnt at a her ise vel ten ars ted to the ler ure ned at wer ise els , in hat hey are out the ame ion and ion .
ked ing ers
ure 123 : ers ned on ral age hes by ing ers ing her ise pes .
eft : ith 23% alt - and - per ise , we ain ted bor - ike ers .
hey ear tly ess zed han hen ing ian ise ( ast ith ure 123 ght ) .
ght : ith 23% ero - ing ise we ain ers hat ook ike ted ngs .
for the ree red ise pes , ing ing ars to arn ers hat ure ful ral age ics ure .
nts on ked ing ers
in his ion , we ate ing ers as a ing egy for ing eep net - rks , ing the ing ure hat we bed in ion 123 .
we all nly are the ion nce of rks ned by ing ing ers ( dae ) , ver - sus ing lar ers ( sae ) , sus ing ted ann nes ( dbn ) , on a ark of ion ems .
123 red ion ems and tal ogy
we red 123 ion ems , the ils of ich are ted in ble 123
hey ist
the ard ist git ion lem ith 123 ing les .
the ght ark age ion ems sed in lle et al .
( 123 ) ich in - ude ore ing ons of the ist git ion lem ( all ith 123 ing les ) , as ell as ree ial 123 123 ary age ion sks . 123 ese ems ere ned to be rly ing to ent ric ing al - hms ( lle et al . , 123 ) .
hey are ted in ure 123
a ion of the kis dio nre ion ata set ( tra , 123 ) ich con - ins 123 ree - ond dio ips , lly ted ong 123 cal res : ues , cal , try , sco , hop , pop , azz , tal , gae and ock .
ach ple in the set
the ata ets for his ark are ble at ttp : / / www . iro . eal . ca / isa / 123
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
( a ) no ion
( b ) 23% ion
( c ) 23% ion
( d ) ron a ( 23% , 23% , 23% , 23% ion )
( e ) ron b ( 23% , 23% , 23% , 23% ion )
ure 123 : ers rnt by ing der on ist its , ing ero - ing ise .
( a - c ) how ome of the ers rnt by ing ers ned ith ous ion .
ers at the ame ion in the ree ges are ted nly by the act hat the ers ere ted rom the ame dom ion int in ter ace .
( d ) and ( e ) oom in on the ers ned for two of the ons .
as can be een , ith no ise , any ers ain rly ing ( ive ost orm dom rey hes ) .
as we ase the ise vel , ing ing ces the ers to ate ore , and ure ore ive res .
her ise els end to uce ess cal ers , as ted .
one can ish ent nds of ers , rom cal lob ors , to oke ors , and ter rts ors at the her ise
was ted by 123 mel hon ent ( mpc ) res .
ese are a ied for - ion of the mel - ncy ral nts ( ccs ) hat ere own to eld ter ion nce ( tra , 123 ) .
all ems ept kis had eir ata lit nto ing set , ion set and est set .
we ept the ame ard its hat ere sed in lle et al .
( 123 ) .
the ing set is sed for oth ing and ne ing of the els .
ion nce on the ion set is sed for ing the est ion of ers ( del ion ) .
the ing ion nce on the est set is hen ted her ith a 23% nce val .
for kis we sed a tly ent ure , nce ere was no ned ard lit and wer les .
we sed 123 - old oss ion , ere ach old ted of 123 ing les , 123 est and 123 ion les .
for ach old , ers ere sen sed on the nce on the ion set , and the ned del was sed for com - ing the ing est ror .
we ort the age est ror and ard ion oss the 123 lds .
we ere hus ble to are the ion nce of eep ral rks ing
ent sed ion ies for eir ers :
ked ing ers
mlp dom : yer ron ith ual dom on; dbn ( eep ief rks ) nds to ked rbm ng; sae ked der ng; dae ked ing der ing .
in all ses , the ame sed ne - ing ure was hen sed , hat is , ple tic ent ent ith rly ing sed on ion set nce .
ata set ion
ist ard ist git ssi -
sic ler set of ist .
rot ist its ith ded
bg - and ist its ith dom
bg - img ist its ith dom
bg - img - rot ist its ith ion
and age und .
ect ate een all and ide les ( ite
ect - img ate een all and ide lar age yed on a ent
vex ate een con -
vex and ave ape .
kis ify nre of rty sec -
123 - old oss ida - ion on 123 ing
ble 123 : ata ets .
ics of the 123 ent ems red .
ept for ane - kis ose put is ade of 123 mpc res ted rom ort dio ces , all her ems are 123 123 ray - ale age ion sks ( i . e . , put ion - ity is 123 123 = 123 ) .
see lle et al .
( 123 ) and tra ( 123 ) for her ils on ese ata ets .
the ble ves , for ach ask , its and ame , a ion of the lem , a ion of put ing , the ber of ses ( m ) , and the ber of les sed for the ing , ion and est ets ely .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
( a ) rot , bg - and , bg - img , bg - img - rot
( b ) ect , ect - img , vex
ure 123 : les orm the ous age ion ems .
( a ) : der ons on the
ist git ion ems .
( b ) : ial ary ion ems .
on the 123 123 ray - ale age ems , sae and dae sed oid der ers and ere ned ing a oss - opy oss , due to his ing a ral ice for his ind of ( ear ) ary ges , as ell as ing lly ser to rbm ing we ted to are
ver for ing the rst yer on the kis lem , hat is , for ing mpc nts , a ear der and a red ion ost ere med ore ate ( sub - ent ers sed oid oss opy as ore ) .
rly the rst yer rbm sed in pre - ing a dbn on kis was ned ith a ian ble yer .
ble 123 sts the ers hat had to be ned by per del ion ( sed on ion set nce ) .
ote hat to uce the ice ace , we ted ves to the ame ber of den its , the ame ise vel , and the ame ing ate for all den ers .
123 cal son of eep ork ing ies
ble 123 rts the ion nce ned on all ata ets ing a 123 den yer ral ork ned ith the ree ent ies : by ing ing ers ( dae - 123 ) , ing ted ann nes ( dbn - 123 ) , and ing lar ers ( sae - 123 ) .
for nce the ble lso ins the nce ned by a gle den - yer dbn - 123 and by a ort tor ine ith a rbf nel ( rbf ) . 123
vms ere ned ing the svm ion .
eir ers ( c and nel dth ) ere ned emi -
lly ( i . e . , by man ded rid - rch ) , ing for the est mer on the ion set .
ked ing ers
ber of den ers ber of its per den yer ( ame for all ers )
ate xed ing ate for per -
sup xed ing ate for sed
ber of ing chs ugh the ole ing ise vel
( 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 )
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 )
ble 123 : ist of ers for eep rks .
ese ers are mon to all red eep ork ing ies , ept for ise vel n ich is cic to dae ( for ich we ust lso ose the ind of ion ) .
we ist the cal ues we red in the ity of our nts .
est ing ion on the ion set was ays hed for in a emi - tic ion , hat is , ing nts in lel on a rge ion ter , but ith ual nce to oid ing ces on ary rts of the ion ace .
ome nts ant to udy ore ely the nce of cic ers lly sed a ner rch rid for hem , as ill be ied in the ion of ese nts .
in ese nts , dae sed a ero - ing ion ise for all ems ept for kis , for ich a ian ise was med ore ate due to the ure of the put .
we see hat dae - 123 lly rms the ine svm , as ell as sae - 123 ( ept for vex for ich the nce is not lly ant ) .
his ows rly hat de - ing ing ith a non - ero ise vel is a ter egy han ing ith lar ers .
for all but one lem , dae - 123 is her the est ing thm or has its nce val lap ith hat of the ing thm ( i . e . , nce not be red lly ant ) .
in ost ses , ing 123 ers of ing der ems to be on par or ter han ing 123 ers of bms in dbn - 123
in the ing ons , we ill be ing her led nts to hed ght
on lar cts of the ing der ing egy .
123 nce of ber of ers , den its per yer , and ise vel
ext we ted to udy ore ely the nce of ant ral ers , ely the ber of ers , the ber of den its per yer , and the ise vel .
for his ner
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
dae - 123 ( n )
ble 123 : son of ked ing ers ( dae - 123 ) ith her els .
est ror ate on all red ion ems is ted her ith a 23% nce val .
est mer is in old , as ell as ose for ich nce als lap .
dae - 123 ars to eve nce ior or ent to the est her del on all ems ept bg - and .
for dae - 123 , we lso ate the ion n of ted put nts , or in ase of kis , the ard ion of the ian ise , as sen by per del ion .
ote hat sae - 123 is ent to dae - 123 ith n = 23% .
ned ies of nts , we ose to ate on the est of the red ems , hat is , the one ith the ost ors of ion : bg - img - rot .
we rst ine how the sed ork ing egy ves as we ase the ity of the del oth in dth ( ber of ons per yer ) and in pth ( ber of den ers ) .
ure 123 ows the ion of the nce as we ase the ber of den ers rom 123 to 123 , for ree ent ork ing ies : out any ing ( ard mlp ) , ith ary der ing ( sae ) and ith ing der ing ( dae ) .
we rly see a ict ing : ing ing ing ter han der ing ing ter han no ing .
the age ars to ase ith the ber of ers ( ote hat out ing it ems ble to lly ain a 123 den yer ork ) and ith the ber of den its .
his ral ior is a cal ion of hat is ned by ing eep rks ith a ood sed ion , and ars to be mon to ral ing ies .
we fer the der to han et al .
( 123 ) for an cal udy and ion ing ble ons for the non , red on the ion of ion cts ( we oit the sis hat res of x hat elp to ure p ( x ) lso elp to ure p ( y|x ) ) and ion cts ( sed pre - ing zes ers ear a ter cal mum of ion ror ) .
ice hat in ing the ers for all ion ces so far ted , we red nly a rse ice of ise els n ( ely 23% , 23% , 23% , or 23% of ero - ing ion for the age ion ems ) .
rly it was not ary to ick the ise vel ery ely to ain ood ces .
in ure 123 we ine in ore ils the nce of the vel of ion n ing a ore ne - ned rid for lem bg - img - rot
ked ing ers
ure 123 : ion nce on bg - img - rot for ard mlp ith dom ion ( ain , eft ) , sae ( dle ) , and dae ( ght ) , as we ase the ber of hid - den ers and the ber of ons per yer .
ror ars how 23% nce in - als .
ote hat out ing the rve for 123 ers is ide the hic , the ion ror ing ove 23% .
ice hat dae ars to orm ter han sae ( 123 ise ) for a her ide nge of ise els , ess of the ber of den ers .
the ing ion rts an ent hat was ted on ree her ata ets .
the ex - ent had a ent oal and hus sed a ser n rid , but the ing ves ( see ure 123 ) ear to low a lar ern to the one een ere ( ure 123 ) .
123 ing ing vs .
ing ith isy put
we sed in ion 123 the ant ion een ing ing as it is one in dae and ply ing ith isy uts .
dae ses a ing ion to arn ood ial ure ors at ach yer hat ill be sed as ion for a ess sed ing .
his is ery ent rom ing ith isy uts , ich nts to ing ith a ( lly ) ded ata set .
his ter ach can in ple be ied to any ier , uch as an 123 or a sae .
ote hat in the ase of the sae , nce ere are two ses ( ing and ne - ing ) , it is ble to use isy uts for nly the ing or for oth the ing
for sae , put les can ply be ted on the y , but his is not an ion ith ard svm hms .
so for svm ing we rst ted the ing set by ing 123 tra ons of ach nal ing ple hus ing a ing set 123 mes ger han the nal .
ely , we uld ead ave sed the
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
ure 123 : ity to the vel of ion .
the ves ort the est ror ate for dae ned on lem bg - img - rot as a ion of the ion n of ted put mpo - nts ( ing ero ing ise ) .
ror ars how 23% nce val .
ote hat 23% ion nds to a sae ( lar der ) .
and ne - ing ase .
we lly are ese ent hes on ree ata ets in ure 123
we see hat ing ing ith dae , for a rge nge of ise els , lds tly ved nce , eas ing ith isy uts mes des the nce , and mes ves it tly but is rly ess ial han dae .
123 ons on the ing der : ate ion pes and ing
in the ext ies of nts , we ted to ate ely the ect of ing the ous ing ses bed in ion 123 as ell as the zed ing der ant bed in ion 123 .
ive nts ere ied out on the ame 123 ems we sed in the ous ion .
des ero - ing ise ( mn ) we ned 123 den yer dae ing alt - and - per ise ( sp ) and ive ian ise ( gs ) .
for mn and sp , we lso ied the zed ant . 123 for ach red ant , ers ere ted as ual to eld the est nce on the
ual sv que ( opf et al . , 123 ) , ich may or may not ave ded ter nce , but nce our ain cus ere is ing isy sae ith dae , svm nly ves as a ple ine .
as ady ned sly , nce ian ise pts ery ion , zed ing oes not
ake nse for his ype of ion .
ked ing ers
ure 123 : dae vs .
ing ith isy put .
the est ror of a dae ith 123 den ers is red to her hms ned ith isy uts : a svm ith rbf nel ( rbf ) , a 123 - den - ers sae ere isy uts ere sed for ing nly ( sae ( 123 ) ) and one ere isy uts ere sed oth for ing and sed ne - ing ( sae ( 123 ) ) .
den ers ave 123 ons ach .
ero - ing ise was sed .
ote hat at 23% ise , the ree ked els ond to an ary sae .
ror ars how 23% nce val .
ing ing ith dae ars to ays eld tly ter nce , ike ing ith isy uts .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
dae - 3mn ( n ) + mph 123 . 123 ( 23% ) dae - 3sp ( n ) + mph
ble 123 : ons on 123 - den - yer ked ing ers ( dae - 123 ) : ive ise pes and ect of sis .
red ise pes are ing ise ( mn ) , alt - and - per ( sp ) and ian ise ( gs ) .
zed ion red ble sis and ull sis ( see ain ext for led ion ) .
for asy son , the ble lso ces sly own lts for rbf , sae - 123 , and dbn - 123
est ror ate is ted her ith a 23% nce val .
est mer is in old , as ell as ose for ich nce als lap .
ion vel n ( ion of ted put nts or ian ard ion ) hat was ned by del ion on the ion set is ied in sis .
dae - 3sp ith sis on ion of ted ion ars to be the est dae ant for ese ata ets , tly ing nce on rot and bg - and .
ion set .
ese ded the ber of its per yer ( ame for all ers ) , the ion ( ion of ted ons for mn and sp , or ard ion for gs ) , ith the ual red ues ( ted sly in ble 123 ) .
for the zed ion , a her hy - ter was the ree of sis .
we red oth ble sis , ere the ght on the ion of the ted nts is ice hat on the ted nts ( a = 123 , b = 123 ) , and ull sis ere all the ght is on ing the ted mpo - nts and one on the ted ons ( a = 123 , b = 123 ) .
ble 123 rts the ing ion nce on the eld - out est set .
for the ree red ata ets , an pha - zed dae ith alt - and - per ise ars to be the ing dae ant .
it hus ars hat a ous ice of ise ype and ded sis may ten buy us a ter nce .
ver we had ped , ith ese nts , to tch up ith the nce of dbn - 123 on the bg - and lem , 123 but dbn - 123 ill rms tly ter han the est dae ant on his
123 are res rnt in an sed ion by dae ful for vms ?
in the ing ies of nts , we ted to ify her the her vel ons ted ing dae uld ove the nce of ing hms her han a ral ork , uch as vms .
as sed in lle et al .
( 123 ) , bg - and is rly ble to bms use the xel - ise pen -
ent ise tly hes hat an rbm cts and ill lly not be ted in the den its .
ked ing ers
to his end , we fed the ons rnt by the ely sed ase of dae , at ing her els ( rst , ond and ird den yer ) to oth a ear svm and a nel svm ( ing a rbf nel ) .
the ers of the svm and its nel ere ned on the ion set as ual .
for nal ons , we did not re - une dae ers .
ead , we ied the est ing dae - ned ral rks ith 123 its per yer , sed on eir ion nce ter ne - ing rom ous nts , but sed eir ved hts ior to ne - ing ( i . e . , ter sed ing ing nly ) .
lts for all red ata ets are ted in ble 123 , and ure 123 hts nce ves for two of hem .
rly , svm nce can net tly rom ing the her vel ion rnt by dae . 123 on all ems we see ved nce red to ing the nal put ( 123 ) .
ore gly , on ost ems , svm nce im - ves ily as we use ver her vel ons .
ile it is not too ing hat ear vms can net rom ing the nal put sed non - rly , it is thy hat rbf nel vms , ich are igh - ity non - ear ers , lso eem to net tly rom the non - ear ing ned by dae .
ure 123 : svm on ons rnt by dae .
the ves how ion , on two ata ets , of the est nce of ear and rbf nel vms as we ain hem on her vel ons rnt in the sed ase of dae .
nce of dae ter sed ne - ing is lso own as emn ( mn nds for ing ise ) .
den yer 123 nds to nal put ion .
ing les rom ked ing der rks
des the ion nce ons and ive ual ion of rnt ers , it is lso ary in ies of eep ive els uch as bns , to how les ted
to ify hat the rnt ion was ble for the ved nce , her han a dom non - ear ion , we lso ned vms on the ion of the ame ral ork ure but ing mly zed hts : the nce ded as we sed the her vel ons .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
ble 123 : svm nce on her vel ons rnt by dae .
nce of oth ear svm , and svm ith rbf nel is ted , as hey are ned on her nal put ( 123 ) , or on the ion rnt by a dae at the vel of its rst ( 123 ) , ond ( 123 ) , or ird ( 123 ) den yer .
the ons sed for the vms ere ose ned ior to ne - ing .
est ror ate on all red ion ems is ted her ith a 23% nce val .
est mer is in old , as ell as ose for ich nce als lap .
rly oth ear and nel svm nce net rom ing the her vel ons rnt by dae .
for ost ems the nce ses ily as we use ons rom ver her els of the ure .
rom the ned els .
his can eld her ive ual ent of her hey ere ble to ure the put ion ell .
123 top - own ion of a ble ple ven a top - yer ion
ven a top - yer ion , a eep ief ork ( ton et al . , 123 ) is a ted cal del , and it is asy to do a top own ing ass , hat is , ing ach yer ned on the yer ove , to lly uce a ple in the tom yer hat can be yed .
ore ely , in oid eep ief rks ( dbn ) , the ion at a wer yer x ven the
ked ing ers
yer ove y is ted ing to a uct of ent lis ose ean is a tic ion of y , hat is , x|y b ( gq has the act ame orm as hat ven in ion 123 for the der art of an der .
rom a ned sae or 123 it is hus ble to ate les at one yer rom the ion of the yer ove in the act ame way as in a dbn .
( y ) ) , ere gq
123 tom - up ing of the top - yer ion ing to a ven put
in sae / dae , ven an put ion at the tom yer , the ing ion in the top yer is ted in a tic tom - up ass ing ing ons fq .
the ame ure is sed in bns and , in the cal del ive , can be wed as an ate nce of a ial lli top - yer ion ven the low vel put .
his top - yer ion is to be ood as the ers ( the ean ) of a ial lli ion for the ual ary its .
123 ing les ith sae , dae , and dbn ing the ame ure
the eep ief ork of ton et al .
( 123 ) is a lly ied ive del .
in lar the int ion of its top two ers is ned by an rbm del , 123 , hat is , an ted cal del rom ich one can tly ple ing ing bbs ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
so to ple rom a dbn del , one uld rst ple rom the top - yer rbm ing ing bbs ing .
hen , ven the hus ned top - yer ion , orm the gle top own ing ass sly bed to uce a ble ern at the tom
by ast , sae / dae ing oes not mpt to del the ion of the top - yer ion .
so ven ven a top - yer nwe can use the act ame top own ing ure to ate put rns rom a sae / dae as for a dbn , sae / dae not by ves one be ted as lly ied ive els .
hey ack a del of the nal ion of eir top yer .
we can ily x his by ing hat top - yer ion non - lly by the ple ory - sed cal ion of the ded top - yer ons of the n ing set rns .
a ble ple can hen be ted by ply ing the top - yer ded sen - ion of a mly ked ing set put , and ing out the top - own ing ure ned sly , as ted in ure 123
his ame que can lso be sed as an ter - ive ple - ion ure for bns ilt by ing bms .
if we eep the ame xed put ern , and nce the ame ing her vel rep - ion , and orm ral top - own ngs , we can hus rve hat ind of ern ons the eep yer art of a eep ork has rnt to del ( or act way in ex - ing the top - yer ion ) .
ure 123 ows the ing ity in the ted rns , for els ned ely as sae , 123 and dbn on ist out any su -
sae and dae ain uch gq
to orm ion , hat is , ing the ean lue of a yer ven the
ion in the yer ely ove it .
his rbm was ned , ing the ing set , to del the ons ned at the yer ust low the top
one , ced by the tom - up ass we ust bed .
oth ere ned ith alt - and - per ise .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
ure 123 : non - ric ing ure for ned rks .
a mly ked put orm the nal ata set is ded as put .
its top vel ion is ned by tic tom - up ing ing ons fq ( k ) .
a ble ern is ted ven his igh vel ion , by ing lli ing and tic ( k ) ( yer ) .
his ame ing , hat is , by ely ing rom b ( gq ure can be ied ith sae , dae and dbn .
it ows to see the ity and ity of rns one ins ven a igh - vel ion .
sed ne - ing .
it ars hat dae and dbn are ble to ize a ety of rly ood ity its , eas the sae ned del tes rns ith uch ble gra - ion in ity .
his is her nce of the ive nce ing rom ing a ing ion ead of ere ion ion .
ote how dae uts ack the iss - ing ole in the oop of the ted 123 , and mes ens up the per oke of the 123 , ing hat it did eed ure ing cic ics .
it ars hat , hen ing his ame ple ion ure , dae and dbn eld a lar ree of ity in the ted rns ( ith dbn rns ing tly ter and dae rns tly ner ) .
her dbn nor dae tee hat ass ies ill not be sed , 123 for ple dbn ses a oop in a 123 ing it ook ser to a 123 , eas dae mes aks pen the oop of an 123 ing it ook ike a 123
but in all ses , and ary to sae , the ted rns ook ike hey uld be les rom the ame own put ion hat ded the ing set .
ion and ure ork
the ent ork was red by ent ful hes to ing eep rks , cif - lly by eir use of a cal sed ion , and led by the ion of hat hat ite - ion uld be .
at the ame ime we ere ted by a ire to dge a ing for - nce gap een eep ief rks and the ing of ary ers ( gio et al . , 23; lle et al . , 23a ) .
his led us to ess a cal ing of nal ely eir ity in ple to arn ful ver - ete sin a ple yet nal way : by ing the ive rom one ing ere ion to the ore ing ask of ing .
the ing ked ing der thm
the der uld ver eep in ind hat his lts rom sed ing nly .
ked ing ers
ure 123 : ity of the les ted ith 123 - den - yer sae , dae and dbn pre - ned els .
ach sub - ure is to be ead row - ise : the ost ern in ach row is a ing set ern .
ing the ple ion ted in ure 123 , it was ded as put to the ork and its top - yer ion was ted by de - tic tom up ing .
rns to its ght ere hen ted tly ven hat top vel ion .
rly , dae ned rks , ike bns , are ble to ate igh ity les rom eir igh vel ion , ary to sae .
dae and bns lso ear to ive ise to a lar vel of ity in the tom - up ted rns ( dbn rns ing to be hat ter ) .
ote how dae uts ack the ing ole in the oop of the ted 123 , and mes ens up the per oke of the ast 123 , ing hat it did eed ure ful cic ics .
dbn and dae ted rns can ily ass for les rom the own put ion ing led , ike rns ted by sae .
ent , lle , oie , gio and gol
for ing eep rks , ved eed ble to dge the nce gap ith bns , ing ent or ter ion nce on all but one of the red ark rob - ems .
as a eep ork ing egy , ing of ing ers ded in ost ses a ant ent in nce ver the ing of ary ers .
the ons hus ted yer by yer , ing a ely sed cal ing ion , ear to ake ent ion sks uch ier .
his is her ced by the act hat ate - of - the - art low ers uch as nel vms lso ear ble to tly net rom it .
ose ion of the ure ors rnt by ing ers wed hat hey ere ble to ero in on ful ure in the ata ( uch as bor - ike dge ors on ral age hes ) hat lar ers med ble to arn .
the thm we ped is a ard , asy to ent , ion on the ell - ood ary ers .
all hat ins to be sen is the ind and vel of ing ise .
it is ely hat a ful ice , bly ded by ior ain dge , may her ost ion - cic nce .
ess our nts wed hat igh for - nce can ady be ved ing ery ple and ric ise pes and ith tle ing of the ise vel .
in ion , we ere ble to how hat , ary to hat it may eem on the sur - ace sed on lar ths , the ing ing we ate is not ent to ing a ere ght cay ion , nor is it the ame as ect sed ing ith ted ( red )
ond the ies and cal ess of the ple thm we ped , our re - lts rly ish the lue of ing a ing ion as an sed ive to ide the ing of ful her vel ons .
his is in our iew the ost ant ion of our ork , as it ers an ing ive to ore ual ( and ten ble ) ood ved ria .
eed , ing nce can ily be red and tly op - zed .
the use of a ing ion is ery ent rom the ive nce ing of bms or the ect ing of ity in ers .
we ope hat our ery ing lts ill ire her rch in his ion , oth cal ( to ter and the ela - hip een ing and ion ing ) , and cal ( to lop ter ing hms sed on his ing ) .
ere are nly ter ays to use ing - sed ing als in the ing of a eep ork han the ple cal ach we red ere .
in lar , ile ing ing ers ows us to ild a eep ork , the ing ers we sed ere ere low .
it uld hus be ing to ate eep ing ers ith ral den ers , and eir ity to orm ful ons .
the ice and ole of the ion ess lso ves her iry .
if ore ved ion ses han ose red ere ove ial , it uld be ost ful if hey uld be zed and rnt tly rom the ata , her han ing to be and - red sed on ior - dge .
his rch was ted by ing rom erc , acs , rnt , far , and the ada rch irs , and tly ied out on ion ces ade ble by chp .
ked ing ers
