the ess of ine ing hms lly nds on ata ion , and we ize hat his is use ent ons can gle and ide ore or ess the ent ex - ory ors of ion ind the ata .
ugh cic ain dge can be sed to elp ign ons , ing ith ric ors can lso be sed , and the est for ai is ing the ign of ore ful ion - ing hms ple - ing uch ors .
his per ews ent ork in the rea of sed ure ing and eep ing , ing ces in tic els , uto - ers , old ing , and eep rks .
his tes ger - erm red ons out the ate ves for ing ood ons , for ing ons ( i . e . , nce ) , and the cal ons be - een ion ing , ity ion and old ing .
dex eep ing , ion ing , ure ing , sed ing , ann ine , der , ral ets
the nce of ine ing ods is ily ent on the ice of ata ion ( or res ) on ich hey are ied .
for hat son , uch of the ual ort in ing ine ing hms oes nto the ign of ing nes and ata ons hat ult in a ion of the ata hat can ort ive ine ing .
uch ure ing is ant but bor - ive and hts the ess of ent ing hms : eir ity to act and ize the imi - ive ion rom the ata .
ure ing is a way to ake age of man ity and ior dge to ate for hat ess .
in der to and the ope and ase of ity of ine ing , it uld be hly ble to ake ing hms ess ent on ure ing , so hat vel ons uld be ted ter , and ore tly , to ake ess rds ial nce ( ai ) .
an ai ust lly and the rld und us , and we gue hat his can nly be ved if it can arn to ify and gle the ing ory ors den in the ved ieu of low - vel ory ata .
his per is out ion ing , i . e . , ing ons of the ata hat ake it ier to act ful ion hen ing ers or her ors .
in the ase of tic els , a ood ion is ten one hat res the ior ion of the ing
ory ors for the ved put .
a ood nta - ion is lso one hat is ful as put to a sed tor .
ong the ous ays of ing ons , his per ses on eep ing ods : ose hat are med by the ion of ple non - ear ons , ith the oal of ing ore act and ely ore ful ons .
ere we vey his dly ing rea ith ial sis on ent ess .
we der ome of the tal ons hat ave een ing rch in his rea .
lly , hat kes one ion ter han her ? ven an ple , how uld we ute its ion , i . e .
orm ure ion ? lso , hat are ate ves for ing ood ons ? 123 why uld we are out ing ion ing has ome a eld in elf in the ine ing ity , ith lar ops at the ing ces uch as ips and cml , and a new nce ted to it , 123 , mes der the der of eep ing or ure ing .
ugh pth is an ant art of the ory , any her ors are ing and can be tly red hen the lem is ast as one of ing a ion , as sed in the ext sec - ion .
the pid ase in tic ity on ion ing has een ied and hed by a ble ing of cal ses oth in mia and in try .
low , we iey ght ome of ese igh nts .
ech ion and nal ing
ech was one of the rly ons of ral rks , in lar nal ( or ime - lay ) ral rks 123
the ent val of est in ral rks , eep ing , and ion ing has had a ong act in the rea of ech ion , ith ugh lts ( ahl et al . , 23; eng et al . , 23; ide et al . , 3a; med et al . , 23; ahl et al . , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) ned by ral ics as ell as ers at ial abs ing ese hms to a ger ale and nto cts .
for ple , oft has sed in 123 a new ion of eir vis ( oft dio deo ing ice )
nal nce on ing ons 123
see gio ( 123 ) for a iew of rly ork in his rea .
ech tem sed on eep ing ( ide et al . , 23a ) .
ese ors ged to uce the ord ror ate on our jor rks by out 23% ( e . g .
rom 23% to 23% on 23s ) red to ate - of - the - art els sed on ian res for the tic ing and ned on the ame unt of ata ( 123 urs of ech ) .
the ive ent in ror ate ned by ahl et al .
( 123 ) on a ler rge - ary ech ion ark ( ing ile ess rch set , ith 123 urs of ech ) is een 23% and 23% .
ion - ing hms ave lso een ied to sic , lly ing the ate - of - the - art in oly - nic ion ( ger - ski et al . , 123 ) , ith ive ror ent een 23% and 23% on a ard ark of 123 ets .
eep ing lso ped to win rex ( sic ion val ) ons , e . g .
in 123 on dio ing ( mel et al . , 123 ) .
the ngs of eep ing in 123 ave sed on the ist git age ion lem ( ton et al . , 23; gio et al . , 123 ) , ing the acy of vms ( 23% ror ) on his 123
the est rds are ill eld by eep rks : san et al .
( 123 ) tly ims the tle of ate - of - the - art for the ned ion of the ask ( e . g . , ing a nal ure ) , ith 23% ror , and fai et al .
( 23c ) is ate - of - the - art for the dge - ree ion of ist , ith 23% ror .
in the ast few ars , eep ing has ved rom its to ect ion in ral ges , and the est ugh has een ved on the net 123 ing own the ate - of - the - art ror ate rom 23% to 23% ( sky et al . , 123 ) .
ral age ing
des ech ion , ere are any her ral age ing ( nlp ) ons of ion ing .
ted ons for lic ata ere ced by ton ( 123 ) , and rst ped in the age ing by gio et al .
ext of cal ( 123 ) in so - led ral net age els ( gio , 123 ) .
hey are all sed on ing a ted pre - ion for ach ord , led a ord ing .
ing a nal ure , ert et al .
( 123 ) ped the nna 123 hat res ons oss the sks of age ing , art - of - ech ing , ing , med ity ion , tic ole ing and tic ing .
nna hes or ses the ate - of - the - art on ese sks but is ler and uch ter han nal ors .
ing ord ngs can be ned ith ing age ons in a way hat low to ate ext and ges .
his ach has een sed lly to ild les age rch , ing uge ies of ata to map ges and ies in the ame ace ( ton et al . ,
for the dge - ree ion of the ask , ere no age - cic ior
is sed , uch as age ons or ons
the 123 - ass net ark , ose lts are led ere :
ble rom ttp : / / ml . nec - abs . com / nna /
123 ) and it has tly een ded to per lti - dal ons ( ava and nov , 123 ) .
the ral net
age del was lso ved by ing nce to the den ers ( lov et al . , 123 ) , the ate - of - the - art ( hed n - ram els ) not nly in rms of ity ( ial of the age ive log - ood of ing the ght ext ord , ing own rom 123 to 123 ) but lso in rms of ord ror ate in ech ion ( nce the age del is an ant ent of a ech ion tem ) , ing it rom 23% ( 123 ine ) or 23% ( ive age del ) to 23% on the all eet nal ark ask .
lar els ave een ied in cal ine ion ( enk et al . , 23; le et al . , 123 ) , ing ity and leu res .
re - ive uto - ers ( ich ize ent rks ) ave lso een sed to eat the ate - of - the - art in ull nce ase ion ( her et al . , 23a ) ost ing the 123 ore for ase ion .
ion ing can lso be sed to orm ord nse ion ( des et al . , 123 ) , ing up the acy rom 23% to 23% on the set of val - 123 ere the tem uld be ied ( ith ect - erb - ect ces ) .
lly , it has lso een lly sed to ass the ate - of - the - art in ent sis ( rot et al . , 3b; her et al . , 23b ) .
lti - ask and fer ing , ain ion
fer ing is the ity of a ing thm to oit ies een ent ing sks in der to are cal gth , and fer dge oss sks .
as sed low , we ize hat ion ing hms ave an age for uch sks use hey arn ons hat ure ing ors , a set of ich may be ant for ach lar ask , as ted in ure 123
his sis ems med by a ber of cal lts ing the ths of pre - ion ing hms in fer ing ios .
ion of ion - ing ing ex - ory ors ( dle den yer , in red ) , ome ing the put ( emi - sed ing ) , and ome ing get for ach ask .
use ese ets lap , ing of tis - cal gth lps ion .
ost ive are the two fer ing ges eld in 123 and won by ion ing hms .
rst , the fer ing nge , ted at an cml 123 hop of the ame ame , was won ing per - sed yer - ise pre - ing ( gio , 23; nil et al . , 123 ) .
a ond fer ing nge was eld the
raw put x ask 123 put 123 ask 123 put 123 ask 123 put 123 rs% ame ear and won by low et al .
( 123 ) .
lts ere ted at ips 23s ges in ing ier - cal els hop .
in the ted ain ion tup , the get ins the ame but the put ion ges ( rot et al . , 3b; hen et al . , 123 ) .
in the lti - ask ing tup , ion ing has lso een und ous sky et al .
( 123 ) ; ert et al .
( 123 ) , use of red ors oss sks .
123 hat kes a ion ood ? 123 ors for ion ing in ai in gio and cun ( 123 ) , one of us ced the ion of ai - sks , ich are ing for ent ine ing hms , and lve lex but hly red ies .
one son why tly ing ith pre - ons is ing is use hey can be ent to ess any ral ors out the rld und us , i . e . , ors hat are not ask - cic but uld be ely to be ful for a ing ine to lve ai - sks .
les of uch ral - ose ors are the ing : ess : mes the ion to be ned f is s . t .
x y lly ies f ( x ) f ( y ) .
his ost sic ior is ent in ost ine ing , but is ent to get und the rse of ity , see ion 123 .
ple ory ors : the ata ing ibu - ion is ted by ent ing ors , and for the ost art hat one rns out one tor zes in any ons of the her ors .
the ive to ver or at ast gle ese ing ors of ion is sed in ion 123 .
his ion is ind the dea of ted ons , sed in ion 123 low .
a cal ion of ory ors : the pts hat are ful for ing the rld und us can be ned in rms of her pts , in a chy , ith ore act pts her in the chy , ned in rms of ess act nes .
his ion is ted ith eep ons , ted in ion 123 low .
emi - sed ing : ith uts x and get y to ict , a set of the ors ing xs ion ain uch of y , ven x .
nce ons hat are ful for p ( x ) end to be ful hen ing p ( y |x ) , ing ing of cal gth een the per - sed and sed ing sks , see ion 123
red ors oss sks : ith any y s of est or any ing sks in ral , sks ( e . g . , the ing p ( y |x , ask ) ) are ned by ors hat are red ith her sks , ing ing of cal ths oss sks , as sed in the ous ion ( lti - ask and fer ing , ain ion ) .
lds : ity ass tes ear ons hat ave a uch ler ity han the nal ace ere the ata ves .
his is tly ted in ome of the uto - der hms and her old - red hms bed ely in ons 123 and 123
ral ing : ent ues of cal les uch as ect ses are ted ith ate lds .
ore ely , the cal ons on the old end to rve the lue of a ory , and a ear ion
een les of ent ses in ral ing ugh a low ity ion , i . e . , p ( x|y = i ) for ent i end to be ell ted and not lap uch .
for ple , his is ted in the old ent ier sed in ion 123 .
his sis is ent ith the dea hat ans ave med ies and ses use of uch cal ure ( red by eir ain and ted by eir ure ) , and ine ing sks ten ves ing uch cal les .
ral and ial nce : ive ( rom a se - nce ) or lly rby ons end to be ted ith the ame lue of ant cal pts , or ult in a all ove on the ace of the igh - ity old .
ore lly , ent ors nge at ent ral and ial les , and any cal pts of est nge wly .
hen ing to ure uch cal les , his ior can be ced by ing the ted ons wly ing , i . e . , ing ges in ues ver ime or ace .
his ior was ced in ker and ton ( 123 ) and is sed in ion 123 .
ity : for any ven ion x , nly a all ion of the ble ors are ant .
in rms of ion , his uld be ted by res hat are ten ero ( as lly sed by sen and eld ( 123 ) ) , or by the act hat ost of the ted res are ive to all ons of x .
his can be ved ith ain rms of ors on ent les ( ked at 123 ) , or by ing a non - ity ose lue is ten at at 123 ( i . e . , 123 and ith a 123 ive ) , or ply by ing the ude of the ian rix ( of ves ) of the ion ing put to ion .
his is sed in ons 123 . 123 and 123 .
ity of tor ies : in ood igh - vel ons , the ors are ted to ach her ugh ple , lly ear ies .
his can be een in any aws of ics , and is med hen ing a ear tor on top of a ned ion .
we can iew any of the ove ors as ays to elp the ner ver and gle ome of the ing ( and a ori own ) ors of ion hat the ata may eal .
his dea is ued her in ons 123 and 123 .
123 ess and the rse of ity for ai - sks , uch as ion and nlp , it ems ess to ely nly on ple ric els ( uch as ear els ) use hey not ure ugh of the ity of in - est ess ded ith the ate ure ace .
con - ely , ine ing ers ave ght ity in 123 non - ric ers uch as nel nes ith a xed ric cal - nse nel ( uch as the ian nel ) .
ely , as ued at gth by gio and rus ( 123 ) ; gio et al .
( 23a ) ; gio and cun ( 123 ) ; gio ( 123 ) ; gio et al .
( 123 ) , ost of ese hms nly oit the ple of cal ion , i . e . , the ion hat the get ion ( to be ned ) is oth ugh , so hey ely on les to tly map out the les of the get ion .
ion
cal in the nse hat the lue of the ned ion at x nds
tly on ing les x ( t ) s ose to x
ive , ing hat
is tly ved by a orm of cal ion een ing ing les .
ugh ess can be a ful ion , it is ent to eal ith the rse of ity , use the ber of uch les ( ups and wns of the get ion ) may row lly ith the ber of ant ing ors , hen the ata are ted in raw put ace .
we ate ing hms hat are ble and non - 123 but do not ely ely on the ess ion .
ead , we ose to ate ric ors uch as ose ted ove nto ion - ing hms .
ess - sed ers ( uch as nel nes ) and ear els can ill be ful on top of uch ned ons .
in act , the ion of ing a ion and nel ine is ent to ing the nel , i . e . , the ure ace .
nel nes are ful , but hey end on a ior ion of a ble ity ric , or a ure ace in ich ive ity ics fce .
we uld ike to use the ata , ong ith ery ric ors , to ver ose res , or tly , a ity ion .
123 ted ons bly - zed ned ion can ure a uge ber of ble put ons .
a ple ing ent lps us to ess the ess of a del pro - ing a ion : how any ers oes it ire red to the ber of put ons ( or ons ) it can ish ? ers of one - hot ons , uch as nal ing hms , ian res , est - bor hms , ion ees , or ian vms all re - ire o ( n ) ers ( and / or o ( n ) les ) to ish o ( n ) put ons .
one uld ely eve hat one not do ter .
ver , bms , rse ing , uto - ers or lti - yer ral rks can all ent up to o ( 23k ) put ons ing nly o ( n ) ers ( ith k the ber of non - ero nts in a rse ion , and k = n in non - rse bms and her nse ons ) .
ese are all ted 123 or 123 ons .
the ion of ing to ted ons is lti - ing , ere her ral ngs ake ace in lel or the ame ing is ied on ent rts of the put , uch as in the ery lar cal ure ion for ect ion sed on a ram of ter ies ted in ent hes of an age ( nik et al . , 23; tes and ng , 23a ) .
the ial ain rom ted or rse ons is sed her in ion 123 ( and ure 123 ) of gio ( 123 ) .
it mes out use ach ter ( e . g .
the ers of one of the its in a rse ode , or one of the its in a ted
ann ine ) can be re - sed in any les hat are not ply ear ors of ach her , eas ith cal ion , ent ons in put ace are lly ted ith eir own ate set of ers , e . g . , as in ion ees , est - ors , ian vms , etc .
in a ted ion , an lly rge ber of ble ets of res or den its can be ted in nse to a ven put .
in a gle - yer del , ach ure is lly ted ith a red put ion , ing to a ane in put ace , and the ode or ion ted ith hat put is ely the ern of ion ( ich res ond to the put , and how uch ) .
his is in ast ith a non - ted ion uch as the one ned by ost ing hms , e . g . , k - ans , in ich the ion of a ven put tor is a one - hot ode ing ich one of a all ber of ter ids est nts the put 123
123 pth and ion pth is a key ect to ion ing ies we der in his per .
as we ill uss , eep res are ten ing to ain ely and his has een the ect of uch ent rch and ess .
ver , ite ese ges , hey rry two ant ges hat ate our ong - erm est in ing ful ing ies for eep res .
ese ges are : ( 123 ) eep res ote the re - use of res , and ( 123 ) eep res can lly ead to ely ore act res at her ers of ons ( ore ved rom the ata ) .
ure re - use .
the ion of re - use , ich ins the wer of ted ons , is lso at the art of the cal ges ind eep ing , i . e . , ing ple els of ion or ing a chy of res .
the pth of a uit is the gth of the est ath rom an put ode of the uit to an put ode of the uit .
the ial rty of a eep uit is hat its ber of ths , i . e . , ays to re - use ent rts , can row lly ith its pth .
lly , one can nge the pth of a ven uit by ing the ion of hat ach ode can ute , but nly by a ant tor .
the cal ons we low in ach ode ude : ted sum , uct , ial ron del ( uch as a one non - ity on top of an fne ion ) , ion of a nel , or gic tes .
cal lts rly how ies of ons ere a eep ion can be lly ore ent han one hat is tly eep ( tad , 23; tad and ann , 23; gio et al . , 3a; gio and cun , 23; gio and eau , 123 ) .
if the ame ily of ons can be ted ith wer
we and non - ric as ing all
ose ity can be sed ely as the unt of ata and its ity nds it , e . g .
ing ure els and ral rks ere the ber of ers is a ata - ted per - ter .
ted ons : ere k out of n ion nts or ure ues can be tly ied , e . g . , hey are not lly ive .
ach ept is ted by ing k res ing ned on or ive , ile ach ure is ved in ing any pts .
rse ons : ted ons ere nly a few of
the nts can be ied at a ime , i . e . , k < n .
as sed in ( gio , 123 ) , ngs are nly tly ter hen in ary ure ing ous - ued hip ues , e . g . , els ( ith ate ers for ach ure ent ) , but nce in nal wer is ill ial ( far and ton , 123 ) .
the ion may lso eem ter ith a ion ree , ere ach ven put is ted ith a one - hot ode ver the ree ves , ich lly cts ted ors ( the ath rom oot to ode ) .
ber of ves of the ree ) ill nly ows rly ith the ber of ers sed to ify it ( gio and eau , 123 ) .
the ber of ent ons ted ( ual
ers ( or ore ely ith a ler vc - ion ) , ing ory uld est hat it can be ned ith wer les , ing nts in oth nal ncy ( ess des to sit ) and cal ncy ( ess ers to arn , and re - use of ese ers ver any ent nds of uts ) .
ion and nce .
eep res can ead to act ons use ore act pts can ten be ted in rms of ess act nes .
in ome ses , uch as in the nal ral ork ( cun et al . , 23b ) , we ild his ion in tly via a ing ism ( see ion 123 ) .
ore act pts are lly ant to ost cal ges of the put .
hat kes the ons hat ure ese pts lly hly non - ear ons of the raw put .
his is sly rue of cal pts , ere ore act nta - ons ect ies hat ver ore ied ena ( e . g .
ger lds ith ore les ) and hus hey lly ave ter ive wer .
ion can lso ear in igh - vel ous - ued tes hat are nly ive to ome ery cic pes of ges in the put .
ing ese rts of ant res has een a ong - ing oal in ern ion .
123 ing ors of ion ond ing ted and ant , we uld ike our rep - ons to gle the ors of ion .
ent ory ors of the ata end to nge tly of ach her in the put ion , and nly a few at a ime end to nge hen one ers a nce of ive
lex ata ise rom the ich ion of any ces .
ese ors act in a lex web hat can ate ai - ted sks uch as ect ion .
for ple , an age is sed of the ion een one or ore ght ces , the ect pes and the ial rop - ies of the ous ces ent in the age .
ows rom cts in the ene can all on ach her in lex rns , ing the ion of ect ies ere ere are one and lly ect the ved ect ape .
how can we ope ith ese lex ons ? how can we gle the cts and eir ows ? ely , we eve the ach we opt for ing ese ges ust age the ata elf , ing ast ies of led les , to arn ons hat ate the ous ory ces .
ing so uld ive ise to a ion tly ore ust to the lex and hly red ons ant in ral ata ces for
it is ant to ish een the ted but nct als of ing ant res and ing to gle ory ors .
the ral nce is the ion of ion .
ant res , by ion , ave ced ity in the ion of nce .
his is the oal of ing res hat are ive to ion in the ata hat are ive to the ask at and .
ely , it is ten ult to ine a ori ich set of res and ons ill ely be ant to the ask at and .
her , as is ten the ase in the ext of eep ing ods , the ure set ing ned may be ned to be sed in ple sks hat may ave nct ets of ant res .
ons uch as ese ead us to the ion hat the ost ust ach to ure ing is to gle as any ors as ble , ing as tle ion out the ata as is cal .
if ome orm of ity ion is ble , hen we ize hat the cal ons of ion ast ted in the ing ata uld be rst to be ned out ( as in pca , for ple , ich oes it lly ead of und ach
123 ood ria for ing ons ? one of the ges of ion ing hat tin - hes it rom her ine ing sks uch as ssi - ion is the lty in ing a ear ive , or get for ing .
in the ase of ion , the ive is ( at ast lly ) ous , we ant to ize the ber of ons on the ing set .
in the ase of ion ing , our ive is far - ved rom the ate ive , ich is lly ing a ier or ome her tor .
our lem is ent of the dit ent lem red in ent ing .
we ave sed hat a ood ion is one hat les the ing ors of ion , but how do we ate hat nto ate ing ria ? is it ven ary to do ing but ize ood der a ood del or can we uce ors uch as ose ted ove ( bly ata - ent nes ) hat elp the nta - ion ter do his ing ? his ion ins rly pen but is sed in ore ail in ons 123 and 123 .
123 ing eep ons in 123 , a ugh in ure ing and eep ing was ted by off ton and kly wed up in the ame ear ( ton et al . , 23; gio et al . , 23; ato et al . , 123 ) , and oon ter by lee et al .
( 123 ) and any ore ter .
it has een ely wed and sed in gio ( 123 ) .
a ral dea , red to as edy ise sed pre - ing , was to arn a chy of res one vel at a ime , ing sed ure ing to arn a new ion at ach vel to be sed ith the sly ned ns; lly , ach ion of sed ure ing dds one yer of hts to a eep ral ork .
lly , the set of ers uld be ned to ize a eep sed pre - tor , uch as a ral ork ier , or a eep ive del , uch as a eep ann ine ( nov and ton , 123 ) .
his per is tly out ure ing hms hat can be sed to orm eep res .
in lar , it was lly ved hat ise ing of ure ion ten ded ter ons , e . g . , in rms of ion ror ( lle et al . , 23; han et al . , 23b ) , ity of the les ted by a tic del ( nov and ton , 123 ) or in rms of the nce ies of the ned res ( low
et al . , 123 ) .
eas his ion ses on the dea of ing gle - yer els , ion 123 ows up ith a ion on int ing of all the ers .
ter edy ise sed pre - ing , the re - ing eep res can be sed her as put to a ard sed ine ing tor ( uch as an svm ) or as ion for a eep sed ral ork ( e . g . , by ap - ing a tic ion yer or ely sed ers of a lti - yer ral ork ) .
the ise ure can lso be ied in a ely sed ing , led the edy ise sed pre - ing ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
for ple , ter the rst one - den - yer mlp is ned , its put yer is ded and her one - den - yer mlp can be ked on top of it , etc .
ugh lts ted in gio et al .
( 123 ) ere not as ood as for sed pre - ing , hey ere ess ter han out pre - ing at all .
ely , the uts of the ous yer can be fed as tra uts for the ext yer ( in ion to the raw put ) , as lly one in yu et al .
( 123 ) .
her ant ( ide et al . , 23b ) pre - ins in a sed way all the sly ded ers at ach tep of the ion , and in eir nts his ant ant ded ter lts han sed pre - ing .
eas ing gle ers nto a sed del is ard , it is ess ear how ers pre - ned by sed ing uld be ned to orm a ter sed del .
we ver ere ome of the hes to do so , but no ear ner ges and uch ork has to be one to ate ing als or ove hem .
the rst sal was to ack pre - ned bms nto a eep ief ork ( ton et al . , 123 ) or dbn , ere the top yer is ted as an rbm and the wer ers as a ted oid ief ork .
ver , it is not ear how to ate mum ood ing to her ize his ive del .
one ion is the ake - eep thm ( ton et al . , 123 ) but ore ork uld be one to ess the ncy of his ure in rms of ing the ive del .
the ond ach hat has een put ard is to ine the rbm ers nto a eep ann ine ( dbm ) , by lly ing the rbm hts to ain the dbm hts ( nov and ton , 123 ) .
the dbm can hen be ned by ate mum ood as sed in ore ils ter ( ion 123 ) .
his int ing has ght ial nts , oth in rms of ood and in rms of ion nce of the ing eep ure ner ( nov and ton ,
her rly ach was to ack bms or uto - ers nto a eep uto - der ( ton and tdi - nov , 123 ) .
if we ave a ies of der - der irs ( f ( i ) ( ) , g ( i ) ( ) ) , hen the all der is the ion of the ers , f ( n ) ( .
f ( 123 ) ( f ( 123 ) ( ) ) ) , and the all der is its ose ( ten ith sed ght ces as ell ) , g ( 123 ) ( g ( 123 ) ( .
f ( n ) ( ) ) ) .
the eep uto - der ( or its zed ion , as sed in ion 123 ) can hen be tly ned , ith all the ers zed ith ect to a bal ion ror ion .
ore ork
on his nue rly eds to be one , and it was bly ded by ear of the ges in ing eep for - ard rks , sed in the ion 123 ong ith ery ing ent lts .
yet her tly sed ach to ing eep res ( iam et al . , 123 ) is to der the ive ion of a ree rgy ion ( i . e . , ith no cit ent les , ept bly for a top - vel yer of den its ) for a eep ure as the ion of rma - ons ted ith wer ers , wed by top - vel hid - den its .
the ion is hen how to ain a del ned by an ary zed ( ree ) rgy ion .
iam et al .
( 123 ) ave sed rid nte rlo ( eal , 123 ) , but her ons ude ive nce ( ton , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) , ore ing ( nen , 23; nen , 123 ) , ing ore ing ( gma and cun , 23; ent , 123 ) , tio - ing ( nen , 123 ) and ise - ive ion ( ann and nen , 123 ) .
123 gle - yer ing les hin the ity of ers ted in nta - ion ing , ere has ped two oad lel nes of iry : one ted in tic cal els and one ted in ral rks .
lly , the nce be - een ese two gms is her the red ure of a eep ing del is to be ted as ing a tic cal del or as ing a ion aph .
in ort , are den its red ent dom les or as nal des ?
his is ely a ion of the act
to ate , the omy een ese two gms has ned in the und , aps use hey ear to ave ore ics in mon han ing hem .
uch ent ess in oth of ese eas has sed on gle - yer edy ing les and the ies een the pes of gle - yer els hat ave een red : nly , the ted ann ine ( rbm ) on the tic ide , and the uto - der nts on the ral ork ide .
eed , as own by one of us ( ent , 123 ) and ers ( sky et al . , 123 ) , in the ase of the ted ann ine , ing the del via an ive ple own as ore ing ( nen , 123 ) ( to be sed in sec .
123 . 123 ) is lly cal to ing a zed ion ive to an uto - der .
her ong ink een irs of els on oth des of his ide is hen the nal aph for ing ion in the ral ork del rre - nds tly to the nal aph hat nds to nce in the tic del , and his ens to lso ond to the ure of cal del elf ( e . g . , as in the rbm ) .
the ion een ese two gms mes ore ous hen we der per els ere , in the ase of a tic del , act nce lly mes ble .
in the ase of eep els , the nal aph ges rom the ure of the del .
for ple , in the ase of a eep ann ine , ing nal ( ate ) nce nto a nal aph lts in
a ent aph ure .
we ave med ary ion ( ard , 123 ) of tic nts of eep uto - ers ose nal aph is lar to hat of a eep ann ine ( in act ery ose to the ean - eld nal ons ted ith the ann ine ) , and hat is one ing ate int to ex - ore ( een the tic hes and the cal
in the ext few ons we ill iew the jor de - nts in gle - yer ing les sed to ort ure ing and rly eep ing .
we ide ese ons een ( ion 123 ) the tic els , ith nce and ing mes hat tly ize the ive or ing way and ( ion 123 ) the typ - lly ral ork - sed els hat tly ize the ing way .
gly , ome els , ike pre - ive rse ion ( psd ) ( glu et al . , 123 ) rit oth ies , and ill lso be sed ( sec - ion 123 . 123 ) .
we hen ent a ent iew of ion ing , sed on the ted try and the old ion , in ion 123
rst , let us der an sed gle - yer sen - ion ing thm ing all ree ews : tic , uto - der , and old ing .
pal nts sis we ill use bly the est ure ion thm , pal nts sis ( pca ) , to ate the oba - tic , uto - der and old ews of ion - ing .
pca rns a ear ion h = f ( x ) = w t x + b of put x rdx , ere the mns of dx dh rix w orm an nal sis for the dh nal ons of est nce in the ing ata .
the ult is dh res ( the nts of ion h ) hat are ted .
the ree ons of pca are the ing : a ) it is ted to tic els ( ion 123 ) uch as tic pca , tor sis and the nal ate ian ion ( the ing ors of the nce rix are the pal nts ) ; b ) the ion it rns is lly the ame as hat ned by a sic ear uto - der ( ion 123 ) ; and c ) it can be wed as a ple ear orm of ear old ing ( ion 123 ) , i . e . , ing a wer - nal ion in put ace ear ich the ata ity is ked .
hus , pca may be in the ack of the ers ind as a mon ead ing ese ous nts .
ely the ive wer of ear res is ery ted : hey not be ked to orm per , ore act ons nce the ion of ear ons lds her ear ion .
ere , we cus on ent hms hat ave een ped to act non - ear res , ich can be ked in the ion of eep rks , ugh ome ors ply ert a non - ity een ned gle - yer ear ons ( le et al . , 3c; hen et al . , 123 ) .
her ich ily of ure ion ues hat his iew oes not ver in any ail due to ace nts is ent ent sis or ica ( ten and ult , 23; ell and ski , 123 ) .
ead , we fer the der to nen et al .
( 23a ) ; nen et al .
( 123 ) .
ote hat ,
ile in the est ase ( ete , ise - ree ) ica lds ear res , in the ore ral ase it can be ted ith a ear ive del ith non - ian ent ent les , lar to rse ing ( ion 123 . 123 ) , ich ult in non - ear res .
ore , ica and its nts ike ent and hic ica ( nen et al . , 23b ) can and ave een sed to ild eep rks ( le et al . , 123 , 23c ) : see ion 123 .
the ion of ing ent nts lso ars lar to our ted oal of ing ing ory ors ugh eep rks .
ver , for lex eal - rld ons , it is ful hat the hip een uly ent ing ors and the ved igh - nal ata can be ely zed by a ear ion .
123 tic els rom the tic ing ive , the ion of ure ing can be ted as an mpt to ver a ous set of ent dom les hat ibe a ion ver the ved ata .
we can ess as p ( x , h ) a tic del ver the int ace of the ent les , h , and ved ata or ble les x .
ure ues are ved as the ult of an nce ess to ine the ity ion of the ent les ven the ata , i . e .
p ( h | x ) , ten red to as the ior ity .
ing is ved in erm of ing a set of del ers hat ( lly ) zes the zed ood of the ing ata .
the tic cal del ism ves us two ble ing gms in ich we can der the ion of ing ent les , ted and ted cal els , ich fer in eir ion of the int ion p ( x , h ) , ing jor act on the ure and nal sts of oth nce and ing .
123 ted cal els ted ent tor els ely ize the con - nal ood p ( x | h ) and the ior p ( h ) to uct the int ion , p ( x , h ) = p ( x | h ) p ( h ) .
les of his ion ude : pal nts sis ( pca ) ( eis , 23; ing and hop , 123 ) , rse ing ( sen and eld , 123 ) , oid ief net - rks ( eal , 123 ) and the wly ced ike - and - lab rse ing del ( low et al . , 123 ) .
123 . 123 ing way ted els ten ads to one ant rty : ex - ing way , i . e . , a ori ent ses of an ent can ome non - ent ven the ion of the ent .
ent tor els can lly be ted as ent use els , ere the h ons use the ved x .
his ers the a ori ent h to be non - ent .
as a nce , ing the ior ion of h , p ( h | x ) ( ich we use as a sis for ure ion ) , is ten lly ing and can be ely ble , lly hen h is ete .
a sic ple hat tes the non is to ine you are on ion way rom ome and you ive a one all rom the ity tem any , ing you hat
the arm has een ted .
you gin ing our ome has een zed , but hen you ear on the dio hat a nor ake has een ted in the rea of our ome .
if you pen to now rom ior nce hat kes mes use our ome arm tem to ate , hen nly you lax , ent hat our ome has ery ely not een zed .
the ple tes how the arm ion red two ise ely ent ses , zed and ake , to ome ent in his ase , the pen - ncy is one of ual ity .
nce oth zed and ake are ery are nts and oth can use arm ion , the ion of one ins way the her .
ite the nal les we ace hen ing to ver the ior ver h , ing way ses to ide a ous p ( h | x ) , ich can be an ely ful tic of a ure ing eme .
if one nks of a ion as ing sed of ous ure ors and ted tes of the ved put , it is ful to low the ent res to ete and ate ith ach her to ain the put .
his is lly ved ith ted cal els , but can lso be ved ith ted els ( see ion 123 ) uch as ann nes if ere are ral ons een the ing its or ing ion rms in the rgy ion hat nes the ity del .
tic ion of pca .
pca can be ven a ral tic ion ( eis , 23; ing and hop , 123 ) as tor sis : p ( h ) = n ( h; 123 , 123
p ( x | h ) = n ( x; w h + x , 123
ere x rdx , h rdh , n ( v; , ) is the ate mal ity of v ith ean and nce , and mns of w pan the ame ace as ing dh pal nts , but are not ned to be mal .
rse ing .
ike pca , rse ing has oth a oba - tic and non - tic ion .
rse ing lso tes a ent ion h ( her a tor of dom les or a ure tor , ing on the ion ) to the ata x ugh a ear ing w , ich we fer to as the ary .
the nce een rse ing and pca is hat rse ing des a lty to ure a rse ion of h is sed to ode ach put x .
rom a non - tic ive , rse ing can be een as ing the ode or ure tor ted ith a new put x via :
ing the ary w can be hed by ing the ing ing ion ith ect to w :
123 + ( cid : 123 ) h ( cid : 123 ) 123 ,
( cid : 123 ) x w h ( cid : 123 ) 123
= f ( x ) = min
( cid : 123 ) x ( t ) w h
ere x ( t ) is the t - th ple and h ( t ) is the ing rse ode ned by eq .
w is lly ned to ave nit - orm mns ( use one can ily nge ing of umn i ith ing of h ( t ) , uch a int is ary for the 123 lty to ave any ect ) .
the tic ion of rse ing ers rom hat of pca , in hat ead of a ian ior on the ent dom ble h , we use a ity ing ace ior ( ing to an 123 lty ) :
p ( x | h ) = n ( x; w h + x , 123
to the orm int on w .
ote hat
ata p ( x ) = ( cid : 123 )
in the ase of rse ing , use we ill eek a rse ion ( i . e . , one ith any res set to tly ero ) , we ill be ted in ing the map ( mum a ori lue of h : i . e .
h = axh p ( h | x ) her han its ted lue e ( h|x ) .
der his ion , ary ing eds as ing the ood of the ata t p ( x ( t ) | h ( t ) ) ven ese map ues of h : axw ter ing eme , ect to the map ues of is not ard ice in the tic the ent h , ure .
lly the ood of the h p ( x | h ) p ( h ) is zed tly .
in the nce of ent les , ion ion is em - yed ere the ers are zed ith ect to the nal ood , i . e . , ing or ing the int log - ood ver the all ues of the ent les der eir ior p ( h | x ) , her han ing nly the gle map lue of h .
the cal ies of his orm of ter ing are not yet ell ood but eem to ork ell in ice ( e . g .
k - ans vs ian ure els and rbi ing for mms ) .
ote lso hat the ion of rse ing as a map ion can be ned ( val , 123 ) , use ven ugh the ion of the 123 lty as a log - ior is a ble ere can be her ian ons ble ith the ing ion .
rse ing is an ent ple of the wer of ing way .
ven ith a ery ete 123 , the map nce ess sed in rse ing to nd h can ick out the ost ate ses and ero the ers , ite hem ing a igh ree of ion ith the put .
his rty ses lly in ted cal els uch as rse ing and is ely ing to the ing way ect .
it is not een in nly sed ted rob - tic els uch as the rbm , nor is it een in ric ure ing ods uch as uto - ers .
the ade - off is hat , red to ods uch as bms and uto - ers , nce in rse ing ves an tra ner - oop of ion to nd h ith a ing ase in the nal ost of ure ion .
red to uto - ers and bms , the ode in rse ing is a ree ble for ach ple , and in hat nse the cit der is non - ric .
one ght ect hat the ony of the rse ing ion and its ing way ect uld be van - ous and eed it ems to be the ase .
tes and ng ( 23a ) ted on the far - 123 ect ion ask ( sky and ton , 123 ) ith a tch - ase ure ion ine , hat in the ime ith few ( < 123 )
ete : ith ore ons of h han ons of x .
led ing les per ass , the rse ing pre - ion tly med her hly ive ing mes .
bly use of ese ies , and use of the ery lly ent hms hat ave een sed for it ( in son ith the ral ase of nce in the nce of ing way ) , rse ing oys ble ity as a ure ing and ing igm .
ere are ous les of its suc - ful ion as a ure ion eme , lud - ing ral age ing ( ina et al . , 23; glu et al . , 23; tes and ng , 3a; yu et al . , 123 ) , dio ion ( sse et al . , 123 ) , nlp ( ell and ley , 123 ) , as ell as ing a ery ful del of the rly ual tex ( sen and eld , 123 ) .
ity ria can lso be zed lly to eld ups of res hat fer to all be ero , but if one or a few of hem are ive hen the lty for ing ers in the oup is all .
ent oup ity rns can ate ent rms of ior dge ( glu et al . , 23; ton et al . , 23; ach et al . , 23; gor et al . , 123 ) .
ike - and - lab rse ing .
ike - and - lab rse cod - ing ( 23c ) is one ple of a ing ion on rse ing for ure ing ( low et al . , 123 ) .
the 23c del ses a set of ent ary ike les her ith a a set of ent eal - ued lab les .
the ion of the ike les tes the ity ern .
23c has een ied to the far - 123 and far - 123 ect ion sks ( sky and ton , 123 ) , and ows the ame ern as rse ing of ior nce in the ime of ely few ( < 123 ) led les per ass ( low et al . , 123 ) .
in act , in oth the far - 123 set ( ith 123 les per ass ) and the far - 123 set ( hen the ber of les is ced to a lar nge ) , the 23c ion lly rms rse ing ons .
his age was led rly ith 23c ing the 123 fer ing nge ( low et al . , 123 ) .
123 ted cal els ted cal els , lso led kov dom lds ( rfs ) , ize the int p ( x , h ) ugh a uct of zed non - ive que als :
p ( x , h ) =
ere i ( x ) , j ( h ) and k ( x , h ) are the que als de - ing the ons een the ble nts , een the den les , and ose ion een the ble and den les ely .
the ion ion z res hat the ion is zed .
hin the ext of sed ure ing , we lly see a lar orm of kov dom eld led a ann ion ith que als ned to be ive :
exp ( e ( x , h ) ) ,
p ( x , h ) =
ere e ( x , h ) is the rgy ion and ins the ter - ons bed by the mrf que als and are the del ers hat ize ese ons .
the ann ine was lly ned as a ork of lly - led ary dom les or its .
( x , h ) = 123
ese tic its can be ded nto two ups : ( 123 ) the ble its x ( 123 , 123 ) dx hat ent the ata , and ( 123 ) the den or ent its h ( 123 , 123 ) dh hat ate ies een the ble its ugh eir ual ons .
the ern of ion is ied ugh the rgy ion : ere = ( u , v , w , b , d ) are the del ers ich ely ode the ble - to - ble ons , the ble - to - den rac - the ble elf - ons , and the den elf - ons ( led ses ) .
to oid ver - ion , the als of u and v are set to ero .
ht v h xt w h bt x dt h ,
xt u x 123
the ann ine rgy ion ies the rob - ity ion ver ( x , h ) , via the ann ion , eq .
123 , ith the ion ion z ven by :
( x , h; )
his int ity ion ves ise to the set of nal ons of the orm :
p ( hi | x , h\i ) = oid
p ( xj | h , x\j ) = oid
vii ( cid : 123 ) hi ( cid : 123 ) + di
ujj ( cid : 123 ) xj ( cid : 123 ) + bj
in ral , nce in the ann ine is ble .
for ple , ing the nal ity of hi ven the les , p ( hi | x ) , res ing ver the est of the ens , ich ies ing a sum ith 123 rms :
p ( hi | x ) =
p ( h | x )
ver ith ome ous ces in the ern of ter - ons een the ble and den its , ore ble ets of the del ily are ble , as we uss ext .
ted ann nes ( bms ) .
the rbm is ely the ost lar ass of ann ma - ine ( sky , 123 ) .
it is ned by ing the ons in the ann rgy ion , in eq .
123 , to nly ose een h and x , i . e .
e rbm ith u = 123 and v = 123
as uch , the rbm can be aid to orm a ite aph ith the les and the ens ing two ers of ces in the aph ( and no ion een its of the ame yer ) .
ith his ion , the rbm ses the ful rty hat the nal ion ver the den its zes ven the les :
is e bm
p ( h | x ) =
p ( hi = 123 | x ) = oid
i p ( hi | x )
j ixj + di
ise , the nal ion ver the ble its ven the ens lso zes :
p ( x | h ) =
p ( xj = 123 | h ) = oid
ihi + bj
p ( xj | h )
his kes ces ily ble in bms .
for xam - ple , the rbm ure ion is ken to be the set of ior als p ( hi | x ) , ich , ven the nal nce bed in eq .
123 , are ely ble .
ote hat his is in ark ast to the ion ith lar ted cal els for sed ure ion , ere ing the ior ity is ble .
tly , the ity of the rbm oes not end to its ion ion , ich ill ves ing an ial ber of rms .
it oes ply ver hat we can mit the ber of rms to min ( 3dx , 3dh ) .
lly his is ill an ble ber of rms and ore we ust ort to ate ods to eal ith its ion .
it is ult to ate the act the rbm has had to the lds of sed ure ing and eep ing .
it has een sed in a uly ive ety of ica - ons , ing mri age ion ( mah et al . , 123 ) , ion and ial ons ( lor and ton , 23; vic and ton , 123 ) , ive ing ( nov et al . , 123 ) and ral ( ato and ton , 23; lle et al . , 23b ) .
123 ons of the rbm to eal - ued ata ant ess has een ade in the ast few ars in ing ons of the rbm hat ter ure eal - ued ata , in lar eal - ued age ata , by ter ing the nal nce of the put els .
the ard rbm , as sed ove , is ned ith oth ary ble les v ( 123 , 123 ) and ary ent les h ( 123 , 123 ) .
the ity of nce and ing in the rbm has red any ors to end it , via ons of its rgy ion , to del her nds of ata ons .
in lar , ere has een ple pts to lop rbm - ype els of eal - ued ata , ere x rdx .
the ost ard ach to ing eal - ued ons hin the rbm ork is the so - led ian rbm ( rbm ) ere the nly nge in the rbm rgy ion is to the ble its ses , by ing a ias erm hat is tic in the ble its x .
ile it bly ins the ost lar way to del eal - ued ata hin the rbm ork , ato and ton ( 123 ) est hat the rbm has ved to be a hat ory del of ral ges .
the ned res lly do not ent arp ges hat cur at ect ies and ead to ent ons hat are not rly ful res for ion sks .
ato and ton ( 123 ) gue hat the ure of the rbm to ely ure the cal ure of ral ges ems rom the ive use of the del ity to ure the nal ean at the nse of the nal nce .
ral ges , hey gue , are iey zed by the nce of the xel ues , not by eir ute ues .
his int is ted by the mon use of ing ods hat ize the bal ing of the xel ues oss ges in a set or oss the xel ues hin ach age .
ese nds of rns out the ity of the rbm to del ral age ata has ead to the ent of ive rbm - sed els hat ach mpt to ake on his
ive of ter ing non - nal nal ari - ( ato and ton , 123 ) ced the ean and nce rbm ( rbm ) .
ike the rbm , the rbm is a 123 - yer ann ine hat tly els the ble its as ian ted ies .
ver ike the rbm , the rbm ses its den yer to tly ize oth the ean and nce of the ata ugh two ets of den its .
the rbm is a ion of the nce rbm ( rbm ) ( ato et al . , 23a ) , hat els the nal nce , ith the rbm hat res the nal ean .
ile the rbm has own ble ial as the sis of a hly ful eme gni - ion tem ( ahl et al . , 123 ) , it ems hat due to ies in ing the rbm , the del has een ely ded by the pot del .
the pot del ( ean - uct of nts t - ons del ) ( ato et al . , 23b ) is a ion of the rbm and the uct of nts t - ons del ( ing et al . , 123 ) .
it is an rgy - sed del ere the nal ion ver the ble its ned on the den les is a ate ian ( non - nal nce ) and the ary nal ion ver the den les ven the les are a set of ent mma ons .
the pot del has tly een zed to the pot del ( ato et al . , 23b ) to ude ero ian ans by the ion of rbm - ike den its , rly to how the rbm zes the rbm .
the pot del has een sed to ize rge - ale ral ges ( ato et al . , 23b ) hat how rge - ale res and ing ure .
it has een sed to del ral res ( nen and ams , 123 ) in a led - ion ion ( see
her tly ced rbm - sed del ith the ive of ing the den its ode oth the ean and nce ion is the ike - and - lab ted ann ine ( rbm ) ( lle et al . , 23a , b ) .
the rbm is ned as ing oth a eal - ued lab ble and a ary ike ble ted ith ach nit in the den yer .
the rbm has een ted as a ure ing and ion eme in the ext of far - 123 ect ion ( sky and ton , 123 ) rom ral ges and has med ell in the ole ( lle et al . , 23a , b ) .
hen ned lly ( see ion 123 ) on ull far - 123 ral ges , the del ted the ity to ate ral age les hat eem to ure the oad cal ure of ral ges ter han ous ric ive els , as ted ith the les of ure 123
the rbm , pot and rbm ach set out to del eal - ued ata uch hat the den its ode not nly the nal ean of the ata but lso its nal nce .
her han ces in the ing mes , the ost ant nce een ese els is how hey ode eir nal nce .
ile the rbm and the pot use the ion of the den its to rce con - nts on the nce of x , the rbm ses the den nit to nch the ion rix ong the ion ied by the ing ght tor .
ese two ays of ing
ann nes , is ven by :
log p ( x ( t ) ) = t ( cid : 123 )
ere we ave the ons ith ect to p ( h ( t ) | x ( t ) ) in the ped ion ( lso led the ive ase ) , and ver the ull int p ( x , h ) in the ped ion ( lso led the ive ase ) .
ely , the ent cts to lly ove the del ion ( the ive ase ion ) ard the ata ion ( ive ase dis - ion ) , by ing own the rgy of ( h , x ( t ) ) irs ( for h p ( h|x ( t ) ) ) ile ing up the rgy of ( h , x ) irs ( for ( h , x ) p ( h , x ) ) til the two ces are in ium , at ich int the ent ics ( ent of the rgy ion ) ave ual ons ith x led rom the ing ion or ith x led rom the del .
the rbm nal nce ies ply hat the ion in the ive ase of eq .
123 is ble .
the ive ase erm ing rom the ion unc - ons ion to the log - ood ent is ore tic use the ion of the ion ver the int is not ble .
the ous ays of ing ith the ion ons ion to the ent ave ght out a ber of ent ing hms , any ing to ate the log - ood ent .
to ate the ion of the int ion in the ive ase ion to the ent , it is ral to ain der ing the nal nce of the rbm in der to ify a nte rlo ion of the ion ver the int :
ith the les ( x ( l ) , h ( l ) ) awn by a ock bbs cmc ( kov ain nte rlo ) ing ure :
x ( l ) p ( x | h ( 123 ) ) h ( l ) p ( h | x ( l ) ) .
ely , for ach ent ate tep , one uld art a bbs ing ain , ait til the ain ges to the ium ion and hen raw a ent ber of les to ate the ted ent ith ect to the del ( int ) ion in eq .
hen art the ess for the ext tep of ate ent ent on the log - ood .
his ure has the ous aw hat ing for the bbs ain to urn - in and ach ium new for ach ent ate not orm the sis of a rac - cal ing thm .
ive nce ( ton , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) , tic mum ood ( nes , 23; man , 123 ) and ast - hts ent ive nce or pcd ( man and ton , 123 ) are all ays to oid or uce the eed for urn - in .
123 . 123 ive nce ive nce ( cd ) ion ( ton , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) tes the ive ase ion ( eq .
123 ) ith a ery ort bbs ain ( ten ust one tep ) zed
( top ) les rom lly ned - rbm rom lle et al .
( 23b ) .
( tom ) ges in far - 123 ain - ing set est ( 123 nce ith ast zed ing ges ) to ing del les on top .
the del oes not ear to be ing lar ing les .
nal nce rge hen the ity of the den yer is tly ent rom hat of the put .
in the ete ing , rse ion ith the rbm ion its nce nly in the ect ons of the ely ted den its .
his is a rty the rbm res ith rse ing els ( sen and eld , 23; sse et al . , 123 ) .
on the her and , the ase of the pot or rbm , an ete set of nts on the nce ies hat ing ary nce ong a lar ion of the put res ing lly all nts ith ive ion in hat ion .
his ive uld est hat the pot and rbm do not ear to be ell ted to ide a rse ion in the ete ing .
123 rbm ter ion any of the rbm ing ods we uss ere are ap - ble to ore ral ted cal els , but are rly cal in the rbm ing .
und and ler ( 123 ) sed a ing thm for ums ( bms ) sed on ion uit .
ive nce ( ton , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) has een sed ost ten to ain bms , and any ent ers use tic mum ood ( nes , 23; man , 123 ) .
as sed in sec .
123 , in ing tic els ers are lly ted in der to ize the ike - ood of the ing ata ( or tly the log - ood , or its zed ion , ich dds a ion erm ) .
ith t ing les , the log ood is ven by :
log p ( x ( t ) ; ) =
p ( x ( t ) , h; ) .
ent - sed ion res its ent , ich for
at the ing ata sed in the ive ase .
his ces the nce of the ent tor and ill ves in a ion hat lls the ive ain les rds the as - ted ive ain les .
uch has een ten out the ies and ive ons of cd and its ity to uto - der ing , e . g .
ira - nan and ton ( 123 ) ; lle ( 123 ) ; gio and eau ( 123 ) ; ver and man ( 123 ) .
123 . 123 tic mum ood the tic mum ood ( sml ) thm ( lso own as ent ive nce or pcd ) ( nes , 23; man , 123 ) is an ive way to tep an ded urn - in of the ive ase bbs ler .
at ach ent ate , her han ing the bbs ain at the ive ase ple as in cd , sml zes the ain at the ast ate of the ain sed for the ous ate .
in her rds , sml ses a lly ing bbs ain ( or ten a ber of bbs ins run in lel ) rom ich les are awn to ate the ive ase ion .
ite the del ers ing een tes , ese ges uld be all ugh hat nly a few eps of bbs ( in ice , ten one tep is sed ) are red to ain les rom the ium ion of the bbs ain , i . e .
the del ion .
a ome ect of sml is hat it ies on the bbs ain to mix ell ( lly een des ) for ing to eed .
lly , as ing ses and the hts of the rbm row , the ity of the bbs ple ins to eak 123
if the ing ate ted ith ent ent + g ( ith e ( g ) log p ( x ) ) is not ced to ate , hen the bbs ler ill rge rom the del ion and ing ill ail .
ins et al .
( 123 ) ; cho et al .
( 123 ) ; nov ( 23b , a ) ave all red ous rms of red ons to ess the ure of bbs ain ing , and ing ons ave not yet een rly ted .
a tly ced ing nue ies on pth elf , ing hat ing een des is uch ier on per ers ( gio et al . ,
man and ton ( 123 ) ave sed ite a dif - ent ach to ing ial ing ems of sml ith eir ast - hts ent ive nce ( pcd ) , and it has lso een ted to ain eep ltz - ann nes ( nov , 23a ) and uct a ure ing thm for bms ( eux et al . , 123 ) .
pcd lds on the ing but ust ncy of bbs ins to mix ter ing sml ing han hen the del ers are xed .
the non is ted in the orm of the ood ent elf ( eq .
the les awn rom the sml bbs ain are sed in the ive ase of the ent , ich ies hat the ing ate ill tly ase the rgy ( ase the ity ) of ose les , ing the ion in the ood of ose les
hen hts ome rge , the ted ion is ore aky , and the ain kes ery ong ime to mix , to ove rom ode to ode , so hat lly the ent tor can be ery oor .
his is a ous ken - and - egg lem use if ing is not ive , nor is the ing ure , ich may eem to all , and lds ven ger hts .
ess ely to be led and ore ing it ore ely hat the les ill ove ere lse ( lly ing ear her ode ) .
her han ing les rom the ion of the ent del ( ith ers ) , pcd tes his ect by ing les rom a cal ion of the del ith ers and an ate
123 = ( 123 ) 123 +
ere is the ely rge ast - ght ( > ) and 123 < < 123 ( but ear 123 ) is a ing tor hat eps the bed del ose to the ent del .
ike ing , pcd oes not rge to the del ion as and go to 123 , and her ork is ary to ize the ure of its ion to the del ion .
ess , pcd is a lar and tly ive ans of ing ate les rom the del ion hat lly ent its ity , at the ice of mes ing ous les in een two des ( use the ast hts hly ond to a hed iew of the ent els rgy ion ) .
it has een ied in a ety of ons ( man and ton , 23; ato et al . , 23; nen and ams , 123 ) and it has een med nto a ing thm ( eux et al . , 123 ) hat lso res his ast ing rty ith ing ( ing , 123 ) , for the ame son , i . e . , ing ive ons een ive les of the ain in der to ote ter ing .
123 . 123 ood , tio - ing and ore ile cd , sml and pcd are by far the ost lar eth - ods for ing bms and rbm - sed els , all of ese ods are aps ost lly bed as ing dif - ent ons to mum ood ing .
ere ist her ive les hat are ves to axi - mum ood hat can lso be sed to ain bms .
in tic - lar , ese ude udo - ood ( sag , 123 ) and tio - ing ( nen , 123 ) .
oth of ese ive les mpt to oid tly ing ith the ion ion , and eir tic ncy has een zed ( lin and de tas , 123 ) .
udo - ood eks to ize the uct of all one - nal nal ons of the orm p ( x\d ) , ile tio - ing can be ted as an ion of ore ing ( nen , 123 ) to ete ata pes .
oth ods unt to ted ces of the ent of the rbm ree 123 ted at a ata int and at ing nts .
one ial ack of ese ods is hat ing on the ion of the rgy ion , eir nal nts may ale up to o ( nd ) rse han cd , sml , pcd , or ing ore ing ( gma and cun , 23; ent , 123 ) , sed low .
lin et al .
( 123 ) lly red all of ese ods ( ept ing ore ing ) on a nge of ion , ion and ity ing sks and und hat , in ral , sml ded the est ion of all nce and nal ity .
ver , in a ter udy , the ame ors ( sky et al . , 123 ) 123
the ree rgy f ( x; ) is the rgy ted ith the ata nal ity , f ( x; ) = log p ( x ) log z and is ble for the rbm .
und ing ore ing to be a ive ive ple oth in rms of ion nce ( ith ect to sml ) and in rms of nal ncy ( ith ect to lly ned ore ing ) .
ing ore ing is a ial ase of the ing uto - der ing ion ( ion 123 . 123 ) hen the ion ror ual als a ent , i . e . , the ore ion ted ith an rgy ion , as own in ( ent , 123 ) .
in the rit of the ann ine ent ( eq .
123 ) ral hes ave een sed to ain rgy - sed els .
one is ise - ive ion ( ann and hy - nen , 123 ) , in ich the ing ion is med nto a tic ion lem : ish een ( ive ) ing les and ( ive ) ise les ted by a oad ion ( uch as the ian ) .
her ily of hes , ore in the rit of ive nce , ies on ing ive les ( of the ing ion ) and ive les ned by ons of the ive les ( ert and ton , 23; des et al . , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) .
123 tly ing a ric map rom put to ion hin the ork of tic els ted in ion 123 , the ned ion is ays ted ith ent les , lly ith eir ior ion ven an ved put x .
ely , his ior dis - ion nds to ome ery ted and ble if the del has ore han a ple of ted ers , her in the ted or ted cal del ame - rks .
it hen mes ary to ort to ing or ate nce ues , and to pay the ted nal and ion ror ice .
if the rue pos - ior has a rge ber of des hat ter hen ent nce ues may ace an ble nge or ure a lly ous ion .
his is in ion to the ies sed by the ble ion ion in ted cal els .
ver a ior ion ver ent les is not yet a ple ble ure tor hat can for ple be fed to a ier .
so ual ure ues are lly ved rom hat ion , ing the ent les ion ( as is lly one ith bms ) , eir nal ity , or ing eir ost ely lue ( as in rse ing ) .
if we are to act ble tic cal ure ues in the end way , an ive ( tly ) non - tic ure ing igm hat ses on ing out his art of the ion , ery ef - tly , is hat of uto - ers and her tly zed ure or ion ons .
the ity een ese ods is hat hey arn a ect ing , i . e . , a ric map rom uts to eir ion .
zed uto - ers , sed ext , lso lve ing a ing ion hat aps ack rom sen - ion to put ace .
ons 123 and 123 uss ect ing ods hat do not ire a der , uch as emi - sed ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) and low ure sis ( ott and ski , 123 ) .
in the uto - der ork ( cun , 23; ard and amp , 23; ton and mel , 123 ) , one rts by ex - tly ing a ure - ing ion in a cic zed sed orm .
his ion , hat we ill ote f , is led the der and ill low the ard and ent ion of a ure tor h = f ( x ) rom an put x .
for ach ple x ( t ) rom a ata set ( x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( t ) ) , we ene
h ( t ) = f ( x ( t ) )
ere h ( t ) is the ure - tor or ion or ode com - ted rom x ( t ) .
her sed orm zed ion g , led the der , aps rom ure ace ack nto put ace , ing a ion r = g ( h ) .
eas tic els are ned rom an cit ity ion and are ned to ize ( ten ely ) the ata ood ( or a oxy ) , uto - ers are zed ugh eir der and der and are ned ing a ent ing ple .
the set of ers of the der and der are ned sly on the ask of ing as ell as ble the nal put , i . e .
ing to cur the est ble ion ror l ( x , r ) a ure of the ncy een x and its ion r ver ing les .
ood ion ans low ion ror at est les , ile ing igh ion ror for ost her x ons .
to ure the ure of the ata - ing ion , it is ore ant hat ing in the ing ite - ion or the ion nts the uto - der rom ing the ity ion , ich has ero ion ror ere .
his is ved ugh ous ans in the ent rms of uto - ers , as bed low in ore ail , and we all ese zed uto - ers .
a lar orm of ion sts in ing the ode to ave a low ion , and his is hat the cal uto - der or pca do .
in ary , sic uto - der ing sts in ing a lue of ter tor ing ion ror
ere x ( t ) is a ing ple .
his ion is lly ied out by tic ent ent as in the ing of lti - yer - ons ( lps ) .
nce uto - ers ere ily ped as lps ing eir put , the ost nly sed rms for the der and der are fne ngs , lly wed by a non - ity :
f ( x ) = sf ( b + w x ) g ( h ) = sg ( d + w
ere sf and sg are the der and der ion ons ( lly the ent - ise oid or lic ent non - ity , or the ity ion if ing ear ) .
the set of ers of uch a del is = ( w , b , w ( cid : 123 ) , d ) ere b and d are led der and der ias ors , and w and w ( cid : 123 ) are the der and der ght ces .
the ice of sg and l nds ely on the put ain nge and ure , and are lly sen so hat l rns a ive log - ood for the ved lue of x .
a ral ice for an ded ain is a ear der ith a
red ion ror , i . e .
sg ( a ) = a and l ( x , r ) = ( cid : 123 ) x r ( cid : 123 ) 123
if uts are ded een 123 and 123 ver , ing a rly - ded ion can be ved by ing sg = oid .
in ion if the uts are of a ary ure , a ary oss - opy 123 is mes sed .
if oth der and der use a oid non - ity , hen f ( x ) and g ( h ) ave the act ame orm as the als p ( h | v ) and p ( v | h ) of ary bms ( see ion 123 ) .
his ity ted an ial udy ( gio et al . , 123 ) of the ity of ing bms ith uto - ers as the sic pre - ing egy for ing eep rks , as ell as the ive sis of uto - der ion ror ent and ive nce up - tes ( gio and eau , 123 ) .
one ble nce in the ion is hat bms use a gle ght rix , ich ows lly rom eir rgy ion , eas the uto - der ork ows for a ent rix in the der and der .
in ice ver , ght - ing in ich one nes w ( cid : 123 ) = w t may be ( and is ost ten ) sed , ing the ons cal .
the ual ing res ver fer tly een the two hes .
a cal age of ing uto - der nts is hat hey ene a ple ble ion ive hat can be sed to tor ess .
in the ase of a ear uto - der ( ear der and der ) ith red ion ror , ing eq .
123 rns the ame 123 as pca .
his is lso rue hen ing a oid ity in the der ( ard and amp , 123 ) , but not if the hts w and w ( cid : 123 ) are ied ( w ( cid : 123 ) = w t ) , use w not be ced nto ing all and w ( cid : 123 ) rge to eve a ear der .
ion erm of the orm ( cid : 123 )
rly , le et al .
( 23b ) tly wed hat ing a j 123 ( wjx ( t ) ) to a ear uto - der ith ied hts , ere 123 is a ear vex ion , lds an ent thm for ing ear ica .
123 zed uto - ers ike pca , uto - ers ere lly een as a men - ity ion que and hus sed a eck , i . e .
dh < dx .
on the her and , ful ses of rse ing and rbm hes end to our ete i . e .
dh > dx .
his can low the uto - der to ply ate the put in the res , ith ect ion out ing ted ore ean - ful res .
ent rch has ted ery suc - ful ive ays , led zed uto - ers , to ain the ion , ven hen it is ete .
the ect of a eck or of his ion is hat the uto - der not uct ell ing , it is ned to uct ell the ing les and ion ans hat ion ror is lso all on est les .
an ing ion ( ato et al . , 123 ) for the ity lty ( or any lty hat cts in a oft way
123 xi log ( ri ) + ( 123 xi ) log ( 123 ri )
ary to nal pca ing ors , but rly to the ers ned by tic pca , the ght ors ned by a ear uto - der are not ned to orm an mal sis , nor to ave a ful ing .
hey ill ver pan the ame ace .
l ( x , r ) = ( cid : 123 ) dx
the ume of den ons ily ble by the ner ) is hat it cts in rit ike the ion ion of bms , by ing ure hat nly few put ons can ave a low ion ror .
ely , one can iew the ive of the iza - ion ied to an uto - der as ing the ion as ant ( ive ) as ble ith ect to ges in put .
his iew ely ies two nts of zed uto - ers bed low : ive uto - ers uce the ber of ive ees of dom of the ion ( und ach int ) by ing the der ive , i . e . , ing the ive of the der all ( hus ing the den its ate ) , ile the ing uto - der kes the ole ing ust , i . e . , sen - ive to all dom ons , or ive , ing ure hat the ion not tay ood hen ing in ost ons und a ing ple .
123 . 123 rse uto - ers the est ses of gle - yer uto - ers for ing eep res by ing hem ( gio et al . , 123 ) red the dea of ing the der hts and der hts to ict ity as ell as the dea of ing a orm of ity ion ( ato et al . , 123 ) .
ity in the ion can be ved by ing the den nit ses ( ing ese ive set ers ore ive ) ( ato et al . , 23; lee et al . , 23; low et al . , 23; lle and gio , 123 ) or by tly ing the put of the den nit ons ( ing hem ser to eir ing lue at 123 ) ( ato et al . , 23; le et al . , 3a; zou et al . , 123 ) .
ing the ias uns the ger hat the hts uld ate for the ias , ich uld urt cal ion .
hen tly ing the den nit uts , ral nts can be und in the ure , but a ear ive sis is ill ing .
ugh the 123 lty ( i . e . , ply the sum of put nts hj in the ase of oid non - ity ) uld eem the ost ral ( use of its use in rse cod - ing ) , it is sed in few ers ing rse uto - ers .
a ose sin of the 123 lty is the ent - t lty j ) ) , lly sed for rse ing ( sen and eld , 123 ) .
ral ers ize the age put hj ( e . g .
ver a tch ) , and ead of ing it to 123 , age it to ach a xed get , her ugh a ean - are ror lty , or ybe ore bly ( use hj ves ike a ity ) , a ack - ler nce ith ect to the ial ion ith ity : log hj ( 123 ) log ( 123 hj ) ant , e . g . , ith = 123 .
123 . 123 ing uto - ers ent et al .
( 123 , 123 ) sed ing the ing ob - ive in eq .
123 rom ere ion to hat of ing an lly ted put , i . e .
ing to uct the ean put rom a ted ion .
ing the ity is no ger ugh : the ner ust ure the ure of the put ion in der to lly ndo the ect of the ion ess , ith the ion lly ing a rby but her ity int han the ted put .
ure 123 tes hat the ing uto - der
( dae ) is ing a ion ion hat nds to a tor eld ing rds igh - ity ons ( the old ere les ate ) .
123 . 123 ive uto - ers ive uto - ers ( cae ) , sed by fai et al .
( 23a ) , low up on ing uto - ers ( dae ) and are a lar ion of ing ust ons .
aes eve his by ing an tic ive lty to eq .
123 : the ius orm of the ers ian , and lts in ing the ity of ned res to mal put ons .
let j ( x ) = f x ( x ) the ian rix of the der at x .
the aes ing ive is
l ( x ( t ) , g ( f ( x ( t ) ) ) ) +
hen ata ate ear a wer - nal old , the ion tor is lly ost nal to the old , and the ion ion rns to ise , map rom low - ity ons ( ted uts ) to igh - ity nes ( nal uts ) , ing a tor eld ned ith the ore ( ive of the ted ity ) .
lly , the ive zed by a dae is :
q ( x|x ( t ) ) ( ) ges ver ted les x awn rom ion ess q ( x|x ( t ) ) .
in ice his is zed by tic ent ent , ere the tic ent is ted by ing one or a few ted ons of x ( t ) ach ime x ( t ) is red .
ons red in vin - ent et al .
( 123 ) ude ive pic ian ise , alt and per ise for ray - ale ges , and ing ise ( alt or per nly ) , e . g . , ing ome mly sen uts to 123 ( tly per ple ) .
ing ise has een sed in ost of the ons .
ely ter res are ted ith ing , ing in ved ion , and dae res med rly or ter han rbm res .
hen et al .
( 123 ) how hat a ler ive ith a sed orm ion can be ned hen ing to a ear uto - der and ave lly ied it to ain ion .
ent ( 123 ) tes aes to rgy - sed tic els : aes lly arn in r ( x ) x a tor ing in the ion of the ted ore log p ( x ) ( ure 123 ) .
in the ial ase of ear ion and red ror , ent ( 123 ) ows hat ing an fne - oid - fne dae nts to ing an rgy - sed del , ose rgy ion is ery ose to hat of a rbm .
ing ses a zed ant of the ore ing ter ima - ion que ( nen , 23; nen , 23; gma and cun , 123 ) med ing ore ing ( ent , 123 ) .
sky ( 123 ) had own hat ing bms ith ore ing is ent to ing a lar uto - der ith an nal ion erm , ile , ing up on the cal lts in ent ( 123 ) , sky et al .
( 123 ) wed the cal age of ing to ent ore ing tly .
lly ain and gio ( 123 ) ize ent ( 123 ) and ove hat aes of ary ion ith all ian ion ise are ral ors of the ore .
ere is a per - ter ing the gth of the ion .
for an fne oid der , the ive lty erm is asy to ute :
jj ( x ) = f ( x ) j ( 123 f ( x ) j ) wj
ere are at ast ree ble ces ith aes , ich may be tly ble for the ter nce hat cae res eem to lly ate : ( a ) the ity of the res is 123 her han hat of the ruc - on; ( b ) the lty is tic her han tic : an ef - tly ble ion ces hat ght ise ire dx ted les to ize up ( i . e .
the ity in dx ons ) ; ( c ) a per - ter ows a ne rol of the ade - off een ion and ess ( ile the two are led in a dae ) .
ote ver hat ere is a ght ion een the dae and the cae : as own in ( ain and gio , 123 ) a dae ith all ion ise can be een ( ugh a lor ion ) as a ype of ive uto - der ere the ive lty is on the ole ion ion her han ust on the 123
a ial age of the aes tic lty is hat it nts to nly ing ess to mal put ons .
his is ied in fai et al .
( 23b ) ith the e+h , hat zes all her der ves , in an ent tic ner , by ing a erm hat ges j ( x ) and j ( x + ) to be ose :
l ( x ( t ) , g ( x ( t ) ) ) +
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) j ( x ) j ( x + ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
ere n ( 123 , 23i ) , and is the ted ion
the dae and cae ave een lly sed to win the nal ase of the sed and fer ing nge ( nil et al . , 123 ) .
the ion ned by the cae nds to be ted her han rse , i . e . , ost den its are ear the mes of eir nge ( e . g .
123 or 123 ) , and eir ive hi ( x ) is ear 123
the non - ted its are few and ive to the uts , ith eir ted ers ( ght ors ) her ing a sis ing the cal ges und x , as sed in ion 123 .
her way to get ted ( rly ary ) its is tic ing ( nov and ton , 123 ) .
i . e . , the ess of the ion is ged .
but ote hat in the cae , the der hts are ied to the der hts , to oid ate ons , and his uld lso ake the der
ted put ted put ior : nal put ( cid : 123 )
123 . 123 ive rse ion rse ing ( sen and eld , 123 ) may be wed as a ind of uto - der hat ses a ear der ith a red ion ror , but ose non - ric der f rms the ely non - ial and ely tly ive ion of eq .
a lly ful ant of rse ing and uto - ers , med ive rse ion or psd ( glu et al . , 123 ) ces hat tly and hly non - ear ing tep by a ast non - ive ion ing ion ( ing the ned res ) .
psd has een ied to ect ion in ges and deo ( glu et al . , 123 , 23; ett et al . , 123 ) , but lso to dio ( aff et al . , 123 ) , tly hin the ork of lti - age nal eep chi - res ( ion 123 ) .
the ain dea can be zed by the ing ion for the ing ion , ich is sly zed ith ect to den des ( ion ) h ( t ) and ith ect to ers ( w , ) : ere x ( t ) is the put tor for ple t , h ( t ) is the zed den ode for hat ple , and f ( ) is the ing ion , the est ant ing f ( x ( t ) ) = anh ( b + w t x ( t ) )
ere ing hts are the ose of ing hts .
any nts ave een sed , ing the use of a age ion ead of the lic tan - ent ( glu et al . , 123 ) .
ote how the 123 lty on h nds to ake hem rse , and how his is the ame ion as rse ing ith ary ing ( eq .
123 ) ept for the nal int hat one uld be ble to ate the rse des h ith a zed der f ( x ) .
one can hus iew psd as an ion to rse ing , ere we ain a ast ate der .
nce psd is ned , ect ons f ( x ) are sed to eed a ier .
hey are ted kly and can be her ne - ned : the der can be wed as one age or one yer of a ble lti - age tem uch as a ard ral ork .
( cid : 123 ) h ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 + ( cid : 123 ) x ( t ) w h ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
123 + ( cid : 123 ) h ( t ) f ( x ( t ) ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
psd can lso be een as a ind of uto - der ere the des h are ven ome dom hat can elp to her ove ion .
one can lso iew the ing lty ded on top of rse ing as a ind of zer hat ces the rse des to be rly ble by a oth and ent der .
his is in ast ith the des ned by ete ion of the rse ing ite - ion , ich are hly non - oth or ven non - ble , a lem hat ted her hes to oth the red des of rse ing ( ell and ley , 123 ) , so a rse ing age uld be tly zed ong ith ing ges of a eep ure .
123 ion ing as ani - her ant ive on ion ing is sed on the ric ion of old .
its ise is the old sis , ing to ich eal - rld ata ted in igh nal ces are ted to con - ate in the ity of a old m of uch wer
ity dm , ded in igh nal put ace rdx .
his ior ems rly ell ted for ai sks uch as ose ing ges , nds or ext , for ich ost mly led put ons are ike ral uli .
as oon as ere is a ion of ion hen one can ink of a old by ing the ari - ons in put ace , ich are red by or ted ( by ing ges ) in the ned ion .
to rst ion , ome ons are ell ved ( the ent ons of the old ) ile ers ent ( ons nal to the lds ) .
ith his pec - ive , the ary sed ing ask is hen een as ing the ure of the ata - ing 123
the ted ion ing ned can be ted ith an sic ate tem on the ded old .
the pal old ing thm is , not gly , lso the pal low nal ion ing thm : pal ent sis , ich els a ear old .
it was lly sed ith the ive of ing the est ear old to a oud of ata nts .
the pal nts , i . e .
the ion f ( x ) hat pca lds for an put int x , ely tes its ion on hat old : it nds to sic co - tes on the old .
ata old for lex eal rld ins are ver ted to be gly non - ear .
eir ing is mes hed as rks of lly ear ent ces ( ent and gio , 23; and , 123 ) .
the rge ity of hms ilt on his ric ive opt a non - ric ach , sed on a ing set est bor aph ( opf et al . , 23; eis and aul , 23; aum et al . , 23; and , 23; kin and ogi , 23; oho and mes , 23; ger and aul , 23; ton and eis , 23; van der ten and ton , 123 ) .
in ese non - ric hes , ach igh - nal ing int has its own set of ree low - nal ing tes , ich are zed so hat ain ies of the ood aph ted in nal igh nal put ace are est ved .
ese ods ver do not tly arn a zed ure ion ion f ( x ) ble to new est 123 , ich sly its eir use as ure ors , ept in a ive ing .
ely few non - ear old ing ods ave een sed , arn a ric map hat can tly ute a ion for new ts; we ill cus on ese .
123 ing a ric ing sed on a ome of the ove non - ric old ing al - hms can be ied to arn a ric ing ead of ing ree
i . e . , ble to new nts :
lly , ata nts eed not tly lie on the old , but the ity ity is ted to all off ply as one ves way rom it , and it may lly be ted of ral bly ted lds ith ent sic ity .
for ral of ese ues , ons for new nts can be ted ing the rom ion as has een sed as an ion in ( gio et al . , 123 ) , but his ins ome and
low - nal ing ate ers for ach ese tes are ned ugh an tly zed ion , as ith the ric ari - ant ( van der ten , 123 ) of t - sne ( van der ten and
ead , emi - sed ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) rns a ect ing ile ing nto unt the old sis ugh a ood aph .
a zed ral ork ure sly rns a old ing and a ier .
the ing ion ges ing set ors to ave lar ons .
the ced and tly led ber of ree ram - ers in uch ric ods , red to eir ure non - ric rts , ces els to ize the old ape non - lly ( gio et al . , 23b ) , ich can ate nto ter res and nal nce ( van der ten and ton , 123 ) .
ver , ing the ing of lds on ing set ood ips ght be sky lly in igh nal ces ( ely ted due to the rse of ity ) as e . g .
ost ean est ors isk ing too tle in mon lly .
the est bor aph is ply not ugh ely ted to map out gly the les of the get old ( gio and rus , 23; gio et al . , 3b; gio and cun , 123 ) .
it can lso ome tic lly to der all irs of ata 123 , ich les lly ith ing set ize .
123 ing to ent non - ear lds can we arn a old out ing est bor hes ? yes , for ple , ith zed uto - ers or pca .
in pca , the ity of the ted nts ( the ode ) to put ges is the ame ess of ion x .
the ent ace is the ame ere ong the ear old .
by ast , for a non - ear old , the ent of the old ges as we ove on the old , as ted in ure 123
in non - ear ion - ing hms it is ent to ink out the cal ons in the ion as the put x is ied on the old , i . e . , as we ove ong igh - ity ons .
as we uss low , the rst ive of the der ore ies the ape of the old ( its ent ane ) und an ple x ing on it .
if the ity was lly ted on the old , and the der had red hat , we uld nd the der ves to be non - ero nly in the ons ned by the ent ane .
let us der rse ing in his ght : ter rix w may be ted as a ary of put ons rom ich a ent set ill be ked to del the cal ent ace at an x on the old .
hat set nds to the ive , i . e .
non - ero , res for put x .
non - ero ent hi ill be ive to all ges of the put in the ion of the ted ght tor w : , i , eas ive res are ore ely to be uck at 123 til a ant ent has ken ace in put ace .
ven if irs are ked lly , any ust be red ore
ing one hat ghs tly on the ion ive .
the cal ate ing ( lcc ) thm ( yu et al . , 123 ) is ery lar to rse ing , but is tly ved rom a old ive .
ing the ame ion as hat of rse ing in eq .
123 , lcc ces ion erm
( cid : 123 ) x ( t ) w h ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
j | ing ive
j | ( cid : 123 ) w : , j x ( t ) ( cid : 123 ) 3+p
his is cal to rse ing hen p = 123 , but ith ger p it ges the ive hor nts for x ( t ) ( i . e .
the ook ors w : , j ith non - ble |h ( t ) are ned to uct x ( t ) ) to be not too far rom x ( t ) , nce the cal ect of the thm .
an ant cal ion of yu et al .
( 123 ) is to how hat hat any itz - oth ion : m r ned on a oth ear old m ded in rdx can be ell ted by a lly ear ion ith ect to the ing ing eme ( i . e .
ear in h ) , ere the acy of the ion and red ber dh of hor nts end on dm her han dx .
his ult has een her ded ith the use of cal ent ons ( yu and ang , 123 ) , as ell as to ple ers ( lin et al . , 123 ) .
the ent non - ive eed - ard ers f , sed by psd and the uto - ers wed in ion 123 , hat are in the orm of eq .
123 or the ted ion for x ill be nly gni - tly ive to put ace ons ted ith non - ted den its ( see e . g .
123 for the ian of a oid yer ) .
ese ons to ich the ion is tly ive , ike in the ase of pca or rse ing , may be wed as ing the ent ace of the old at ing int x .
let us now der
the ent ors to the igh - ity old as ted by a ive uto - der ( fai et al . , 23a ) .
the nal put is own on the top eft .
ach ent tor ( ges on ght ide of rst row ) nds to a ble ive ion of the nal put , as ted on the ond row , ere a bit of the 3rd lar tor is ded to the nal , to orm a ted and med age .
ike in pca , the ent ors are ent for ent uts , use the ted old is hly non - ear .
fai et al .
( 23a ) lly yze in his ght the lar lue rum of the ian ( ves of rep - ion tor ith ect to put tor ) of a ned cae .
ere the svd des an red mal sis of ost ive ons .
the rum is ply ing , ing a ely all ber of tly nsi - ive ons .
his is ken as cal nce hat the cae eed led the ent ace of a low - nal old .
the ing lar ors orm a sis for the ent ane of the ted old , as ted in ure 123
the cae ion is ved to eve his nks to its two ing rms : the pic ive lty ,
123 " ist " put " int " nts " hat ges the ion to be lly ive to ges in any put ons , and the ion erm , hat hes ent ing nts ( in lar ors ) to ave a ent ion ( so hey may be ted ely ) , hus ing the pic ive res - ure nly in ons ent to the old .
ing ned ons ugh the ens of the rum of the ian and ing it to the ion of ent ace of a old is ble , ver the ing is ble , and ess of how it was ned , her as ect ing ( as in uto - der nts ) , or ved rom ent ble nce ( as in rse ing or bms ) .
act low nal old els ( ike pca ) uld eld non - ero lar ues ted to ons ong the old , and act ros for ons nal to the old .
but in oth els ike the cae or the rbm we ill ead ave rge sus ely all lar ues ( as sed to non - ero sus tly ero ) .
123 ing the led ent ces the cal ent ace , at a int ong the old , can be ght of ing lly lid ons hat ere ent in the ing ata .
for ple fai et al .
( 23c ) ine the ent ons ted ith an svd of the ian of aes ned on its , ges , or ext - ent ata : hey ear to ond to all sla - ons or ons for ges or its , and to ons of rds hin a ame eme for nts .
uch ery cal ons ong a ata old are not ted to nge ass ity .
to ild eir old ent ier ( mtc ) , fai et al .
( 23c ) hen ply ues uch as ent nce ( ard et al . , 123 ) and ent ion ( ard et al . , 123 ) , hat ere lly ped to ild ers hat are ive to put ons ded as ior ain dge .
now ese ues are ied ing the cal ing ent ons ted by a cae , i . e .
not ing any ior ain dge ( ept the oad ior out the nce of a old ) .
his ach set a new ord for ist git ion ong ior - dge ree 123
123 ons een tic and ect ing els the ard ood ork for tic mod - els ses the ing ion for els ith pa - ers in two rts : the log - ood log p ( x| ) ( or log p ( x|h , ) ith ent les h ) , and the ior log p ( ) ( or log p ( h| ) + log p ( ) ith ent les ) .
123 psd : a tic ion in the ase of the psd thm , a ion can be ade een the ove ard tic iew and the ect ing ion aph .
the tic del of psd is the ame ted ive del p ( x|h ) of rse ing ( ion 123 . 123 ) , ich nly nts for the der .
the der is wed as an ate nce ism to
ess p ( h|x ) and ize a map ive nce ( ere the rse ior p ( h ) is ken nto unt ) .
ver , in psd , the der is ned tly ith the der , her han ply ing the end ult of ive nce as a get to ate .
an ing 123 to ile ese cts is hat the der is a ric ion for the map ion of a nal wer und on the int log - ood .
hen map ing is wed as a ial ase of nal ing ( ere the ion of the int log - ood is ith a rac ion ted at the map ion ) , the nal ipe lls us to sly ove the ood ( uce ion ror ) and im - ove the nal ion ( uce the ncy een the der put and the ent ble lue ) .
nce psd its at the ion of tic els ( ith ent les ) and ect ing ods ( ich tly ize the ing rom put to ion ) .
bms lso sit at the ion use eir lar ion des an cit ing rom put to ion , nks to the ted ity een den its .
ver , his ice rty oes not end to eir ral eep ons , i . e . , eep ann nes , sed in ion 123 .
123 zed uto - ers ure cal ure of the ity can we lso say ing out the tic eta - ion of zed uto - ers ? eir ing ion oes not t the ard ood ork use his uld lve a ata - ent ior .
an ing sis ges to wer hat ion , out of ent cal lts ( ent , 23; ain and gio , 123 ) : the ing ion of zed uto - ers , ead of ing a orm of mum ood , nds to a ent ive ple , uch as ore ing .
the ore ing con - ion is sed in ion 123 . 123 and has een own for a lar ion of dae and ent ian rbm ( ent , 123 ) .
the ork in ain and gio ( 123 ) zes his dea to a der ass of ons ( ar - ary ers and ers ) , and ows hat by ing the uto - der so hat it be ive , one ins hat the ion ion and its ive ate rst and ond ves of the ing ata - ive ity .
his iew can be ted to lly ple rom uto - ers , as own in fai et al .
( 123 ) ; gio et al .
( 123 ) .
the sed ing hms are mcs lar to vin cmc , ing not ust the ted rst ive of the ity but lso the ted old nts so as to tay ose to lds of igh ity .
his ion cts ell ith the ric per - ive ced in ion 123
the ion cts ( e . g . , due to a ity zer , a ive zer , or the ing ion ) sks the ned ion to be as ive as ble to the put , ile miz - ing ion ror on the ing les ces the ion to ain ust ugh ion to tin -
it ded 23% ror ate ing the ull ist ing set , ith no
ior ons , and no ion .
ted by ian low , nal ion
ion ) and ( b ) dds ise in the ons of the ing lar ors of the ion ( or der ) ian , ing to ose ted ith est ond ive of the log - ity .
123 ing ate nce let us now der rom ser how a ion is ted in tic els ith ent les , hen ive nce is red .
ere is a ion aph ( bly ith dom ber ion in ome of the des , in the ase of cmc ) hat aps uts to pre - ion , and in the ase of tic nce ( e . g . , map nce or nal nce ) , hat ion uld be zed tly .
his is a way to ize psd hat has een red in ent ork on tic els at the ion of nce and ing ( ell and ley , 23; gor and cun , 3b; ubb and ell , 23; nov and lle , 23; nov et al . , 23; ner , 123 ) , ere a ral dea is hat ead of ing a ric nce ism , one can use one hat is ned and is ore ent , ing age of the ics of the ype of ata on ich it is ied .
123 ing ges a ing nge ith any tic els ith ent les ike ost ann ine nts is hat ood cmc ing is red as art of the ing ure , but hat ing mes ely ent ( or ble ) as ing ses use the des of the ned ion ome per , ing ing een des ery low .
eas lly ing ing a ner as - gns ass ost mly , as ing ses , its opy ses , ing the opy of the get ion as ore les and ore ion are ded .
ing to our old and ral ing ors of ion 123 , the get ion has arp des ( lds ) ted by ely low ity eas .
ing hen mes ore ult use cmc ods , by eir ery ure , end to ake all eps to rby igh - ity ons .
his is ted in ure 123
ion ion r ( x ) ( een ) ned by a igh - ity der on 123 - nal put , ing ion ror at ing les x ( t ) ( r ( x ( t ) ) in red ) ile ing to be as ant as ble ise .
the ted ine is the ity ion ( ich ght be ned out the zer ) .
the lue ows ows the tor eld of r ( x ) x ing rds igh ity aks ted by the del , and ing the ore ( log - ity ive ) .
ish hem .
the ion is hat ons ong the igh - ity lds are ved ile her ons are sed : the ion ion uld be as ant as ble ile ing ing les , i . e . , nts ear a ing ple uld be ped to hat ing ple ( ure 123 ) .
the ion ion uld map an put rds the est int old , i . e . , the nce een ion and put is a tor ned ith the ted ore ( the ive of the log - ity ith ect to the put ) .
the ore can be ero on the old ( ere ion ror is lso ero ) , at cal ima of the log - ity , but it can lso be ero at cal ima .
it ans hat we not ate low ion ror ith igh ted ity .
the ond ves of the log - ity nds to the rst ves of the ion ion , and on the old ( ere the rst ive is 123 ) , hey ate the ent ons of the old ( ere the rst ive ins ear 123 ) .
ing rom zed uto - ers ( fai et al . , 23; gio et al . , 123 ) : ach cmc tep dds to ent ate x the ise tly in the ons of the ted man - old ent ane h and cts ack rds the old ( igh - ity ons ) by ing a ion tep .
as ted in ure 123 , the sic dea of the uto - der ing hms in fai et al .
( 123 ) ; gio et al .
( 123 ) is to ake cmc ves ere one ( a ) ves ard the old by ing the ity ent ( i . e . , ing a
top : rly ing ing , cmc xes ily een des use the ted ion has igh opy and uts ugh ass ere for all - eps nts ( cmc ) to go rom ode to ode .
tom : ter on , ing ing on ood ing can all use ted des are ted by ide low - ity rts .
gio et al .
( 123 ) est hat eep ons uld elp ing een uch ell ted des , sed on oth cal nts and on cal nce .
the dea is hat if her - vel ons gle ter
x " r ( x ) " 123 " 123 " 123 " 123 " the ing act ors , hen all eps in his act ace ( e . g . , ing rom one ory to her ) can ily be one by cmc .
the igh - vel ons can hen be ped ack to the put ace in der to ain put - vel les , as in the eep ief rks ( dbn ) ing thm ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
his has een ted oth ith bns and ith the wly sed thm for ing rom ing and ing uto - ers ( fai et al . , 23; gio et al . , 123 ) .
his ion one oes not fce to lve the lem of ing a dbn or a dbm , but it may ide a ial ent , and it kes it ble to der lly ing rom eep els ned by res hat do not ire an cmc , ike the ked zed uto - ers sed in fai et al .
( 123 ) .
123 ing and ing nce it is ays ble to ate a ure ing thm in rms of its ess ith ect to a lar ask ( e . g .
ect ion ) , ith a tor hat is fed or zed ith the ned res .
in ice , we do his by ing the res ned ( e . g .
at lar als ing ing , to orm rly ing ) and ing a eap ier on top ( uch as a ear ier ) .
ver , ing the nal ier can be a ial nal ead ( e . g . , sed ne - ing a eep ral ork kes lly ore ing ons han the ure ing elf ) , so we may ant to oid ing to ain a ier for ev - ery ing ion of the sed ner and ery per - ter ing .
ore tly his may ive an ete ion of the res ( hat uld pen for her sks ? ) .
all ese ues ate the use of ods to tor and ate ely sed nce .
his is her asy ith all the uto - der nts ( ith ome ion ned low ) and her ult ith the ted cal els uch as the rbm and ann nes .
for uto - der and rse ing nts , est set re - ion ror can ily be ted , but by elf may be ing use ger ity ( e . g . , ore res , ore ing ime ) nds to lly ead to wer ion ror , ven on the est set .
nce it not be sed bly for ing ost per - ers .
on the her and , ing ion ror is rly une to his lem , so hat ves the lem for aes .
sed on the ion een aes and aes red in gio et al .
( 123 ) ; ain and gio ( 123 ) , his ity can be ded to aes , but not to the per - ter ing the unt of ise or of ion .
for bms and ome ( not too eep ) ann nes , one ion is the use of led nce ing ( mur - ray and nov , 123 ) in der to ate the ion ion ( and hus the est log - ood ) .
ote hat his sti - tor can ave igh nce and hat it mes ess ble ( nce mes too rge ) as the del mes ore ing , ith ger hts , ore non - ity , per des and a per ity ity ion ( see our ous ion in ion 123 ) .
her ing and tly sed ion for bms is to ack the ion ion ing ing ( ins et al . , 123 ) , ich uld
be ful for rly ing and ing the ost of ary ais .
for toy bms ( e . g . , 123 den its or ess , or 123 uts or ess ) , the act log - ood can lso be ted lly , and his can be a ood way to bug and ify ome ies of est .
123 bal ing of eep els one of the ost ing ges sed by eep chi - res is : how uld we tly ain all the els ? in the ous ion and in ion 123 we ave nly sed how gle - yer els uld be ned to orm a eep del .
ere we der int ing of all the els and the ies hat may ise .
123 the nge of ing eep res her - vel ion ans ore non - ity .
it ans hat two rby put ons may be ted ery tly use a few ace ils nge the ing ics , eas ost her ges in the ace ils uld not nge the ing ics .
the nta - ons ted ith put lds may be lex use the ing rom put to ion may ave to old and ort put lds hat lly ave ted pes nto ces ere ons are uch ler , ere ons een ors are ler , ybe ven ear or ing any ( nal ) ies .
our ion is hat ing the int ion een igh - vel ons and pts uld be uch ier in the nse of ing uch ess ata to arn .
the ard art is ing a ood ion hat oes his ing and ing .
his may be at the ice of a ore ult ing lem , bly ing ill - ing and cal ima .
it is nly nce 123 hat ers ave sly ves - ted ays to ain eep res , to the ion of the nal rks ( cun et al . , 23b ) .
the rst ion ( ion 123 ) was hat sed or sed yer - ise ing was ier , and hat his uld be ken age of by ing gle - yer els nto per nes .
it is ing to ask why oes the ise per - sed pre - ing ure mes elp a sed ner ( han et al . , 23b ) .
ere ems to be a ore ral ple at lay 123 of ing the ing of ter - ate ons , ich may be ier han ing to arn it all in one go .
his is ely ted to the lum ing dea ( gio et al . , 123 ) , hat it may be uch ier to arn ler pts rst and hen ild her - vel nes on top of ler nes .
his is lso ent ith the ess of ral eep ing hms hat ide ome uch nce for ate ons , sed ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
the ion of why sed pre - ing uld be ful was ely ied ( han et al . , 23b ) , ing the wer nto a ion ect and an ion ect .
the ion ect is ear rom the nts ere the ked bms or ing uto - ers are sed to ize a sed ion ral ork ( han et al . , 23b ) .
it may ply ome rom the
rst ted to us by eon tou
use of sed ing to ias the ing ics and ize it in the sin of ion of a ood cal mum ( of the ing ion ) , ere ood is in rms of ion ror .
the ing sis ted by his ure is hat ome of the res or ent ors hat are ood at ing the ing ons in the put ion are lso ood at ing the ons in the get put dom les of est ( e . g . , ses ) .
the ion ect is ore ult to ase out use the top two ers of a eep ral net can ust ert the ing set her the wer ers ute ful res or not , but ere are ral ons hat ing the wer els ith ect to a sed ing ion can be
one uch ion is hat ing the cal con - ons of the ion ure can ave a und act on the int ing of a eep ure , for ex - ple by ing the ion nge and ing the ype of non - ity sed ( rot and gio , 123 ) , uch ore so han ith low res .
one sis to ain ome of the lty in the ion of eep res is red on the lar ues of the ian rix ted ith the ion rom the res at one vel nto the res at the ext vel ( rot and gio , 123 ) .
if ese lar ues are all all ( ess han 123 ) , hen the ing is ive in ery ion and nts uld ish hen ted rds ugh any ers .
his is a lem ady sed for ent ral rks ( gio et al . , 123 ) , ich can be een as ery eep rks ith red ers at ach yer , hen ded in ime .
his ion lty has ted the ion of ond - der ods for eep res and ent rks , in lar ian - ree ond - der ods ( ens , 23; ens and ver , 123 ) .
sed pre - ing has lso een sed to elp ing ent rks and ral bms ( ver et al . , 123 ) , i . e . , at ach ime tep ere is a cal nal to ide the ery of ood res to ure in the ate les : del ith the ent ate ( as den its ) the int ion of the ous ate and the ent put .
ral ent ( ari , 123 ) ods hat can be ied to rks ith ons of ers ( i . e .
ith ood ing ies ) ave lso een sed ( le oux et al . , 3b; anu and gio , 123 ) .
cho et al .
( 123 ) ses to use ive ing tes for rbm ing , ong ith a vel and ing dea for a ent tor hat kes nto unt the nce of the del to ing den nit its and ing gns of ing ght ors .
at ast one udy tes hat the ice of ion ( to ake the ian of ach yer ser to 123 oss all its lar ues ) uld lly uce the ing lty of eep rks ( rot and gio , 123 ) and his is ent ith the ess of the ion ure of cho ate rks ( ger , 123 ) , as tly ied by ver ( 123 ) .
ere are lso ral tal lts ( rot and gio , 23; rot et al . , 3a; air and ton , 123 ) ing hat the ice of den its non - ity uld nce oth ing and ion nce , ith
rly ing lts ned ith rse ing its ( ett et al . , 23; air and ton , 23; rot et al . , 3a; sky et al . , 123 ) .
an old dea ing the ill - ing sue ith ral rks is hat of try ing : art of the ess of nce may be due to any its ing her ( ike eep ) and all ing to uce the put ror for the ame les .
by ing ith rse hts ( ens , 123 ) or by ing ten ted non - ies ( uch as ers as max - ing its ) , nts nly ow ong a few ths , ich may elp den its to ize ore kly .
her ing dea to ove the ing of ral ork ing is to ify the age lue and ope of ach den nit put ( iko et al . , 123 ) , and bly lly ize ude as ell ( ett et al . , 123 ) .
the ate ill ges een ing ine ods uch as tic ent ent and ing ond - der ods on rge hes ( of ral and les ) ( ens , 23; le et al . , 23a ) , ith a ant of tic ent ent tly ing an ion nge 123
hat ith per
lly , ral ent lts ing rge ies led ata est and ice of non - ity , ery eep ely sed rks can be ned lly out any ise pre - ing ( san et al . , 23; rot et al . , 3a; ide et al . , 3a; sky et al . , 123 ) .
ers ort han in uch ons , ise sed pre - ing tle or no ent ver ure sed ing rom tch hen ing for ong ugh .
his hat sed pre - ing cts as a ior , ich may be ess ary hen ery rge ies of led ata are ble , but egs the ion of why his had not een red ier .
the est lts ted in his ect ( sky et al . , 123 ) are rly ing use hey wed to lly uce the ror ate of ect ion on a ark ( the 123 - ass net ask ) ere any ore nal ter ion hes had een ted the ain ues hat wed his ess ude the ing : ent gpu ing ing one to ain ger ( ore han 123 ion its of les ) , an ect rst ted by lee et al .
( 23a ) ; san et al .
( 123 ) , rge ber of led les , lly med les ( see ion 123 ) , a rge ber of sks ( 123 or 123 ses for net ) , nal ure ith max - ing ( see ion 123 for ion ( sed ove ) , ful ter ate and ive ing ate ics , ure ion ( oss res ) , and a new out ick sed on ing ong ary ive ise on den its .
his ick is lar to the ary ise ion sed at ach yer of a ack of ing uto - ers .
ure ork is lly ing to elp ify ich of ese nts ter ost , how to ize hem oss
a rge ety of sks and res , and in lar xts ere ost les are led , i . e . , ing an sed ent in the ing ion .
123 int ing of eep ann nes we now der the lem of int ing of all ers of a cic sed del , the eep ann ine ( dbm ) .
eas uch ess ( eit ith any nan - red ons ) has een ade on tly ing all the ers of eep res ing ack - ted nts ( i . e . , tly in the sed ing ) , uch ess ork has een one on eir ely sed art , e . g .
ith 123
ote ver hat one uld ope hat the ful ues bed in the ous ion uld be ied to sed ing hms .
ike the rbm , the dbm is her lar set of the ann ine ily of els ere the its are ain ged in ers .
ver ike the rbm , the dbm ses ple ers of den its , ith its in odd - red ers ing lly ent ven ven - red ers , and ice - rsa .
ith ect to the ann rgy ion of eq .
123 , the dbm nds to ing u = 123 and a rse ity ure in oth v and w .
we can ake the ure of the dbm ore cit by ing its rgy ion .
for the del ith two den ers it is ven as :
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ; ) = vt w h ( 123 ) h ( 123 ) t h ( 123 ) d ( 123 ) t
h ( 123 ) bt v ,
ith = ( w , v , d ( 123 ) , d ( 123 ) , b ) .
the dbm can lso be har - zed as a ite aph een two ets of ces , med by odd and ven - red ers ( ith v : = h ( 123 ) ) .
123 . 123 ean - eld ate nce a key int of ure rom the rbm is hat the pos - ior ion ver the den its ( ven the les ) is no ger ble , due to the ons een the den its .
nov and ton ( 123 ) ort to a ean - eld ion to the ior .
lly , the ase of a del ith two den ers , we ish to
ate p ( cid : 123 ) h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) | v ( cid : 123 ) ith the red ion qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) = ( cid : 123 ) 123 hat the kl nce kl ( cid : 123 ) p ( cid : 123 ) h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) | v ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) qv ( 123 , 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) p ( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log p ( v ) > l ( qv ) ( cid : 123 )
is zed or tly , hat a wer und to the log ood is zed :
qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log
ing his wer - und ith ect to the ean - eld ion qv ( 123 , 123 ) ( by ing ves to ero ) lds the ing ean eld ate ons :
i + d ( 123 )
k + d ( 123 )
int ing of all the ers of a eep ief net is uch ore
ing use of the uch der nce lem ved .
ote how the ove ons bly ook ike a xed int ent ral ork , i . e . , ith ant put .
in the ame way hat an rbm can be ted ith a ple uto - der , the ove ean - eld ate ons for the dbm can be ted ith a ent uto - der .
in hat ase the ing ion ves the ion ror at the ast or at ive ime eps .
his ype of del has een red by ard ( 123 ) and ung ( 123 ) and own to do a ter job at ing han ary uto - ers .
ing eq .
( 123 - 123 ) til nce lds the q ram -
ers of the nal ive ase of eq
log p ( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) ) log qv ( h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
( cid : 123 ) e dbm ( cid : 123 ) e dbm
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
( v , h ( 123 ) , h ( 123 ) )
ing ure ves the ive ase hed , ich can hus be ted ugh sml or ive nce ( ton , 123 ) as in the rbm ase .
123 . 123 ing eep ann nes the jor nce een ing a dbm and an rbm ead of ing the ood tly , we ead ose ers to ize the wer - und on the ood ven in eq .
the sml - sed thm for ing his wer - und is as ows :
123 ) amp the ble its to a ing ple .
123 ) ate ver eq .
( 123 - 123 ) til nce .
123 ) ate ive ase les v , h ( 123 ) and h ( 123 ) 123 ) ute l ( qv ) / ing the ues ned in eps
123 ) lly , ate the del ers ith a tep of
ate tic ent ent .
ile the ove ure ars to be a ple ion of the hly ive sml eme for ing bms , as we ate in ins et al .
( 123 ) , his ure ems ble to ing in oor cal ima ich ave any den its ely ead ( not tly ent rom its dom ion ith all orm ) .
the ure of the sml int ing egy was ted by nov and ton ( 123 ) .
as an ive , hey sed a edy yer - ise ing egy .
his ure sts in pre - ing the ers of the dbm , in uch the ame way as the eep ief ork : i . e .
by ing bms and ing ach yer to tly del the put of the ous yer .
a nal int ne - ing is one ing the ove sml - sed ure .
123 ing - in nce it is ell ood hat ing ior ain owl - dge lps ine ing .
ing ood ies for ing so is a ery ant rch nue .
ver , if we are to nce our ing of ore ine ing les , it is ant hat we eep ons een ors air and ain a ear ess of the ior
ain dge sed by ent lly hen ing eir nce on ark ems .
we ave so far nly ted hms hat ted nly ric ive ses for igh nal hus ing hem lly ble to any igh nal lem .
the ost ent ach to ing ior dge is to and - ign ter res to eed a ric ier , and has een sed ely in ter ion ( e . g .
( owe , 123 ) ) .
ere , we her cus on how sic ain dge of the put , in lar its cal ure ( e . g .
map ges ing a 23d ure ) , may be sed to arn ter res .
123 ing med les ion nce is lly ved by ing a ger ity of ive ata .
his can be ved by ing new les by ing all dom for - ons to the nal ing les , ing ons hat are own not to nge the get les of est , e . g . , an ect ass is ant to all ons of ges uch as ons , ons , ing , or ing .
his old ach ( ird , 123 ) has een tly ied ith eat ess in the ork of san et al .
( 123 ) who sed an ent gpu ion ( 123 dup ) to ain a tan - ard but rge eep yer ron on med ist its .
ing oth fne and tic ons ( ard et al . , 123 ) , ith ain old tic ent ent , hey ach a ord 23% ion ror ate .
123 ion and ing her ful ach is sed on ven ore sic dge of ely the cal ure of the put ons .
by his we ean e . g . , the 23d out of els in ges or dio ams , the 23d ure of eos , the 23d ial ure of ext or of ral ces in ral .
sed on uch ure , one can ene cal ive lds ( bel and sel , 123 ) , so hat ach low - vel ure ill be ted rom nly a set of the put : a ood in the ogy ( e . g .
a sub - age at a ven ion ) .
his cal ity int nds to a yer ing a ery rse ght rix ith non - ros nly wed for lly cal ons .
ing the ted rix cts can of rse be ade uch ore ent han ing to dle a nse rix , in ion to the cal ain rom a uch ler ber of ree ers .
in ins ith uch cal ure , lar put rns are ely to ear at ent ons , and rby ues ( e . g .
ive mes or rby els ) are ely to ave ger ies hat are lso ant to del the ata .
in act ese ies can be ted to ver the ogy ( le oux et al . , 23a ) , i . e .
ver a lar rid of els out of a set of ors out any der ion , e . g .
ter the nts ave een ily fed in the ame way for all les .
hus a ame cal ure ion is ely to be ant at all ted po - ons of the ive eld .
nce the dea of ing uch a cal ure tor ver the ogy : his nds to a ion , and rms an put nto a rly ped
ure map .
tly to ing , his may be een as tic but tly ned ted ure ors hat all are the ame ers .
his is at the art of nal rks ( cun et al . , 123 , 23b ) ich ave een ied oth to ect ion and to age ion ( aga et al . , 123 ) .
her ark of the nal ure is hat ues ted by the ame ure tor ied at ral ing put ons are hen zed ugh a ing ion , lly ing eir max or eir sum .
his ers the ing led ure yer ome ree of nce to put ons , and his yle of ure ( ing ive ure ion and nce - ing ing ) has een the ba - sis of nal rks , the ron ( ima , 123 ) and max ( ber and gio , 123 ) els , and ued to be the ure sed by ian ins for ect ion ( ber and gio , 23; rre et al . , 23; rlo et al . , 123 ) .
the put of a ing nit ill be the ame ive of ere a cic ure is ted ide its ing ion .
lly the use of ing ems to ute tly to ved ssi - ion acy in ect ion sks ( cun et al . , 3b; eau et al . , 123 , 123 ) .
a ful ant of ing ted to rse ing is 123 ing ( nen et al . , 23; glu et al . , 23; le et al . , 123 ) , for ich the ool put is the are oot of the bly ted sum of res of ter uts .
lly , we uld ike to ize ure - ing so as to arn hat res uld be led her , e . g .
as lly one in ral ers ( nen and yer , 23; glu et al . , 23; le et al . , 23; ato and ton , 23; lle et al . , 3b; tes and ng , 3b; gor et al . , 123 ) .
in his way , the ool put rns to be ant to the ons red by the pan of the res led .
the est ach for ing a nal yer in an sed ion is tch - sed ing : ply ing a ric sed ure ing thm ith cal hes ted at dom ons of the uts .
the ing ure tor can hen be ped ver the put to uce the nal ure aps .
hat map may be sed as a new put for the ext yer , and the ion ted to hus arn and ack ral ers .
uch an ach was tly sed ith ent ace sis ( le et al . , 23c ) on 23d deo cks , ing the ate - of - the - art on 123 , ucf , kth and ube ion ion ets .
rly ( tes and ng , 23a ) red ral ure ers ith tch - sed ing and hed ate - of - the - art lts on ral ion rks .
ter - gly , in his ork nce was ost as ood ith ery ple k - ans ing as ith ore ted ure ers .
we ver ure hat his is the ase nly use hes are her low nal ( red to the ion of a ole age ) .
a rge set ght ide ent age of the ace of e . g .
ges ent in 123 123 hes , so hat a ted ion is not ely ary .
her ble ion for his
ess is hat the ers ied in ach age tch are hen led nto a ram of ter nts ted ith a ger sub - age .
eas the put of a lar ing is a one - hot non - ted ode , his ram is elf a ted ion , and the oft k - ans ( tes and ng , 23a ) ion ows not nly the est ter but lso its ors to be ive .
nal and led - nal ing it is ble to tly ain rge nal ers ing an sed ion .
an rly ach ( ain and ung , 123 ) ned a ard but eep nal mlp on the ask of ing ges , i . e .
as a eep , nal , ing uto - der .
nal ons of the rbm or its ons ave lso een ped ( ins and gio , 23; lee et al . , 3a; lor et al . , 123 ) as ell as a tic max - ing ion ilt nto nal eep rks ( lee et al . , 23a , b; sky , 123 ) .
her sed ure ing hes hat ere ted to the nal ing ude psd ( glu et al . , 123 , 23; ett et al . , 23; aff et al . , 123 ) , a nal ion of rse ing led nal rks ( ler et al . , 123 ) , hic ica ( le et al . , 123 ) , and pot hat nen and ams ( 123 ) ied to ing ral res .
gor and cun ( 23a ) ; le et al .
( 123 ) lso ted the que of led - ion , ere ers are red nly een ure ors ose ive lds are k eps way ( so the nes ing at ate bor ons are not red ) .
his ows ing its to be ant to ore han ust ons , and is a rid een nal rks and ier ral rks ith cal ons but no ght ing ( cun , 123 , 123 ) .
ves to ing ely , one can lso use cit dge of the ted nts sed lly to ene ans - ons hat are ust to a own ily of put for - ons , ing so - led ing ors ( lat , 23; una and lat , 123 ) , ich can be ted in a way gly ous to eep nal rks and ets .
ike nal rks , the ing ors ate two pes of ons : ion and ing ( as a orm ) .
ike nal rks , ach eps at ach vel all of the ion out the put ( in a way hat can be ted ) , and lly lds a ery rse ( but ery igh - nal ) ion .
an - her nce is hat the ers are not ned but ead set so as to tee hat a ori ied ces are tly ved .
ust a few els ere ent to eve ive lts on ral ark ets .
123 ral nce and low res the ple of ing wly ing / ing ors in ral / ial ata has een ted by any ( ker and ton , 23; ott and ski , 23; rri and nen , 23; ing et al . , 23; ieu and sen , 123 ) as a ple for ing ful ons
lar his dea has een ied to age ces and as an ion for why 123 ple and lex lls ave the way hey do .
a ood iew can be und in rri and nen ( 123 ) ; kes and ott ( 123 ) .
ore tly , ral nce has een lly ted in eep res to del deo ( ahi et al . , 123 ) .
it was lso und hat ral nce cov - red ual res lar to ose ned by ary sed ure ing ( tra and gio , 123 ) , and a ral nce lty has een ned ith a ing ion for sed ure ing ( zou et al . , 123 ) , rse uto - ers ith 123 ion , in his ase , ing ved ion nce .
the ral nce ior can be sed in ral the est ing the red nce een ure ues at mes t and t + 123
her ble mpo - ral nce ors ude the ing .
rst , ead of ing the red nge , ing the ute lue ( or a lar ity lty ) uld ate hat ost of the ime the nge uld be tly 123 , ich uld ely ake nse for the eal - ife ors hat und us .
ond , one uld ect hat ead of ust ing wly ing , ent ors uld be ted ith eir own ent ime ale .
the ity of eir ime ale uld hus ome a int to gle ory ors .
ird , one uld ect hat ome ors uld lly be ted by a oup of ers ( uch as x , y , and z ion of ome ect in ace and the ose ers of ton et al .
( 123 ) ) her han by a gle lar , and hat ese ups end to ove her .
red ity ies ( glu et al . , 23; ton et al . , 23; ach et al . , 23; gor et al . , 123 ) uld be sed for his ose .
123 hms to gle ors of ion the oal of ing ant res is to ove ity of the ion to ons of nce in the ata hat are ive to the ask at and .
ver it is ten the ase hat the oal of ure ion is the ing or ion of any nct but ive ors in the ata , e . g . , in a deo of ple : ect ity , ion med , ect ose ive to the era , etc .
in his ion , the ods of ing ant res , uch as ure - ing , may be ate .
the ess of ing ant res can be een as ing of two eps .
rst , low - vel res are red hat unt for the ata .
ond , ets of ese low vel res are led her to orm her - vel ant res , ied by the ing and ing ers of nal ral rks .
the ant ion med by the ing res ers an ete dow on the ata as the led ion of the wer - vel res is ted way in the ing ure .
ile we uld ike her - vel res to be ore act and bit ter nce , we ave tle rol ver hat ion is ost ugh ing .
hat we lly uld ike is for a lar ure set to be ant to the ant res and gle the ant res .
ely , it is ten ult to ine a ori ich set of res ill ely be ant to the ask at and .
an ing ach to ing age of ome of the ors of ion own to ist in the ata is the ing uto - der ( ton et al . , 123 ) : ead of a lar ern tor ( e . g , .
ing to the ity of nce of a lar orm in the put ) one can ink of the res as zed in ups hat ude oth a ern tor and ose ers hat ify tes of the ted ern .
in ( ton et al . , 123 ) , hat med a ori is hat irs of les ( or ive nes ) are ved ith an ted lue for the ing nge in the ose ers .
for ple , an mal hat ols its yes ows hat ges to its lar tor tem ere ied hen ing rom one age on its ina to the ext .
in hat ork , it is lso med hat the ose ges are the ame for all the ern ors , and his kes nse for bal ges uch as age ion and era try ges .
ead , we uld ike to ver the ose ers and tes hat uld be ted ith ach ure tor , out ing to ify ead of ime hat hey uld be , rce hem to be the ame for all res , and ing to ily rve the ges in all of the ose ers or tes .
the ach ken tly in the old ent las - ier , sed in ion 123 , is ing in his ect .
out any ion or ior dge , it nds ent cal ors of ion ( ent ors to the old , ted rom a cae , ted as lly lid put for - ons ) .
her - vel res are tly ged to be ant to ese ors of ion , so hat hey ust end on her ics .
in a nse his ach is ing lid cal ons ong the ata old rom her , ore tic ges , ted to her ors of ion uch as ose hat ect ass ity . 123
one ion to the lem of ion oss hat uld t hin the ure - ing igm , is to der any ing ols of res sed on the ame low - vel ure set .
uch a ure uld ave the ial arn a ant set of ant res hat may not use ant oss of ion .
ver it is not ous ing ple uld be ied hat can ure the res are ant ile ing as uch ion as ble .
ile a eep ief ork or a eep ann ine ( as sed in ons 123 and 123 ely ) ith two den ers uld , in ple , be ble to rve ion nto the ing ond den yer , ere is no tee hat the ond yer res are ore ant han the low - vel rst yer res .
ver , ere is ome cal nce hat the ond yer of the dbn nds to lay ore nce han the rst yer ( han et al . , 23a ) .
a ore led ach , rom the ive of en - ing a ore ust act ure ion , can be ved by ing the ing of res ugh the ens of its ive ent ure com - ion .
nce any sed ing hms ave a
the ges hat ect ass ity ght , in put ace , lly be of lar ude to cal ons , but not low ong the old , i . e .
oss nes of low ity .
ive ion ( or a way to uct uts rom eir igh - vel ion ) , the ive ive can ide ght nto how to ink out ing fac - ors .
the ity of the els tly sed to uct ant res ave the ion hat eir low - vel res rly ine to uct the ata . 123 his is a rly ary orm of ure ion ith ant ons .
for ple , it is not ble to rly ine a ure ith a ric ion ( uch as ion ) to ate a med ion of the ure .
nor can we ven der a ric lor ure ing rly ned ith a ray - ale lus ern to ate a red ern .
it uld eem hat if we are to ake the ion of ing sly we ire a her ion of res han hat red by ple ear ons .
his iew of ion ing and eep ing has red ree jor and tly ted hes : the tic els ( oth the ted ind uch as rse ing and the ted ind uch as ann nes ) , the ion - sed hms ted to uto - ers , and the lly ted old - ing hes .
ing ons een ese hes is tly a ery ive rea of rch and is ely to nue to uce els and ods hat ake age of the ive ths of ach igm .
cal rns and nes .
one of the sms sed to ial ral rks and eep ing lgo - hms is hat hey ave any per - ers and nts and hat ing eir ons and res is an art .
his has ted an ier ook on the cks of the ade ( orr and ler , 123 ) of ich cun et al .
( 23a ) is ill ant for ing eep res , in lar hat rns ion , ill - ing and tic ent ent .
a ood and ore ern ium of ood ing ice , rly ted to ing bms , is ded in ton ( 123 ) , ile a lar ide ted ore rds eep ral rks can be und in gio ( 123 ) , oth of ich are art of a vel ion of the ove ook .
ent ork on ing per - ter rch ( tra and gio , 23; tra et al . , 23; oek et al . , 123 ) is lso ing it ore ent , ent
ing ric ai - vel ors .
we ave red any igh - vel ric ors hat we eve uld ing ine ing ser to ai by ing ion ing .
any of ese ors ate to the med nce of ple ing ors of ion , ose ons are in ome nse nal to ach her .
hey are ted to be zed at ple els of ion , nce the eed for eep res , ich lso ave cal van - ges use hey low to re - use ers in a mbi - lly ent way .
nly a few of ese ors uld
as an ide , if we are ven nly the ues of the her - vel ing res , we not ely ver the ata use we do not now how to ion dit for the ing ure ues to the wer - vel res .
his is ply the ive ion of the ces of the oss of ion sed by ing .
lly be ant for any lar ple , ing ity of ion .
ese ors are ted to be ted to ple ( e . g . , ear ) ies , ith ets of ese ing ent dom les of est ( uts , sks ) and ing in red ays in ime and ace ( ral and ial nce ) .
we ect ure ful ons of ion ing to ene and ase hat ist of ors , and to ate ost of hem ead of ing on nly one .
rch in ing ria hat ter ake ese ors nto unt are ely to ove us ser to the ong - erm ive of ing ing hms hat can gle the ing ory ors .
nce .
we ate hat ods sed on tly ing a ion ion ill ate ore and ore of the ive ype of ion one nds in the nce res of tic ent - ble els .
ere is ady ent in the her ion , ith rob - tic ent - ble els ing ate fer - nce sms hat are ves ned ( i . e . , ing a ric ion of the ion ion ) .
a jor eal of tic els is hat the ics of the ent les are ear and his ows a ean ion of the ems of ing ( ose the rgy ion ) , nce ( ing p ( h|x ) ) , and ing ( ing the ers ) , ing ric ols in ach ase .
on the her and , ing ate nce and not ing hat oxi - ion nto unt tly in the ate ion for ing uld ave tal cts , nce the eal of ing ate nce .
ore lly , ere is the ion of the ity of the ior p ( h|x ) .
if ere are lly any ble ons of ues of the ors hi hat can ain x , hen we eem to be uck ith ery oor nce , her ing on a gle ode ( map nce ) , ing ome ind of ong ion ( as in nal nce ) or ing an cmc hat not sit ugh des of p ( h|x ) .
hat we ose as ood for ght is the dea of ing the ent of an cit ion of the ior and tle for an cit ion hat its ial ure in p ( h|x ) in der to ent it tly : ven ugh p ( h|x ) may ave an ial ber of des , it may be ble to ent it ith a all set of ers .
for ple , der ing a tic ure ion f ( x ) hat tly res the ion out a hly lti - dal p ( h|x ) , in the nse hat all the ons ( e . g .
ing ome ion out ome get ept ) hat can be ked rom p ( h|x ) can lso be red rom f ( x ) .
ion .
uch ins to be one to ter der - and the ses and res of ing eep res , oth in the sed ase ( ith any ent ses ) and the sed ase ( ere uch ore ork eds to be one ) .
ugh ion cts can be ant on all ets , the cts hat ist on ery rge ets est ome ion ues are ved .
are hey ore due to cal ima ( we now now ere are uge ers of hem ) and the ics of the ing ure ? or are hey due tly to ill - ing and may be led by ate ond - der ods ? ese sic ons
ain red and rve uch ore udy .
