the ial ase in the ity of ine ews and ons kes ent ion an ing pic in mic and ial rch .
re - ews can pan so any ent ins hat it is ult to her ted ain - ing ata for all of hem .
nce , his pa - per ies the lem of ain pta - ion for ent ers , eby a sys - tem is ned on led ews rom one rce ain but is ant to be yed on her .
we ose a eep ing ap - ach ich rns to act a ful ion for ach iew in an per - sed ion .
ent ers ned ith his igh - vel rly orm ate - of - the - art ods on a ark sed of ews of 123 pes of zon cts .
ore , his hod les ell and wed us to ess - lly orm ain ion on a ger ial - gth set of 123 ins .
ith the ise of ial dia uch as ogs and so - ial rks , ews , ngs and ons are dly ng; ing ble to lly ter hem is a ent key nge for ses ing to ell eir res and ify new ket ies .
his has ted a rge of rch in ent ion ( or ent sis ) , ich ims to ine the ent of a ter ith re -
ing in ngs of the 123 th nal con - nce on ine ing , vue , wa , usa , 123
ght 123 by the hor ( s ) / ner ( s ) .
ect to a ven pic sed on a ven ual com - ent .
ent sis is now a ure ine ing rch pic , as ted ith his iew ( ang and lee , 123 ) .
ons to any ier - ent ins ave een ted , ing rom vie ews ( ang et al . , 123 ) and nal oor de - tes ( mas et al . , 123 ) to uct nda - ons ( der and lay , 23; zer et al . , 123 ) .
his rge ety of ata ces kes it ult and tly to ign a ust ent ier .
eed , ews eal ith ous nds of cts or ces for ich ies are ent .
for nce , con - der the ple ase of ing a tem ing ews out nly two rts of cts : hen ap - ces and vds .
one set of ews uld con - ain ves uch as ing , ble or rdy , and the her ing , ric or hi - ous , etc .
ore , ata ons are ier - ent oss ins .
one ion uld be to arn a ent tem for ach ain .
ver , his uld ply a uge ost to ate ing ata for a rge ber of ins and ent us rom ex - ing the ion red oss ins .
an ive egy , ted ere , sts in arn - ing a gle tem rom the set of ins for ich led and led ata are ble and hen ap - ply it to any get ain ( led or led ) .
his nly kes nse if the tem is ble to ver ate ons hat are red and ean - ful oss ins .
his lem of ing and ing els on ent ons is own as ain ion ( ume iii and rcu , 123 ) .
in his per , we ose a eep ing ach for the lem of ain ion of ent ers .
the ing new rea of eep arn - ing has ged ly; see ( gio , 123 ) for a re - iew .
eep ing is sed on hms for dis - ing ate ons ilt in a
ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
cal ner .
eep ing ies on the dis - ery hat sed ing uld be sed to set ach vel of a chy of res , one vel at a ime , sed on the res red at the ous vel .
ese res ave lly een sed to ize eep ral rks ( ton and hut - nov , 23; ton et al . , 23; gio et al . , 123 ) .
ine a tic cal del in ich we in - uce ent les ich ond to the rue ory ors of the ved ata .
it is ely hat ing ons and ing ies in the ace of ese ent les uld be ier han ing ons out the raw put .
a ple lin - ear ier or non - ric tor ned rom as few as one or a few les ght be ble to do the job .
the key to ing his is ing ter rep - ons , tly rom led ata : how his is one is hat tes eep ing hms .
the eep ing tem we uce in ion 123 is ned to use led ata to act igh - vel res rom ews .
we how in ion 123 hat nti - ent ers ned ith ese rnt res can : ( i ) ass ate - of - the - art nce on a nch - ark of 123 nds of cts and ( ii ) lly per - orm ain ion on a rge - ale ata set of 123 ins , ing all of the nes we ied .
ain ion
ain ion ers the ing in ich the ing and ing ata are led rom ent ons .
ume we ave two ets of ata : a rce ain s ing led ing ces and a get ain t ing ces on ich the ier is ant to be yed .
we do not ake the ion hat ese are awn rom the ame ion , but her hat s is awn rom a tri - ion ps and t rom a ion pt .
the ing lem sts in ing a ion ing a ood fer rom s to t i . e .
it is ned on ata awn rom ps and zes ell on ata awn rom pt .
eep ing hms rns ate con - pts een raw put and get .
our ion for ing it in his ing is hat ese ate pts uld eld ter fer oss ins .
ose for ple hat ese ate pts tly ure ngs ike uct ity , uct ice , mer ice , etc .
ome of ese pts are ral ugh to ake nse oss a ide nge of ins ( ing to cts or ces , in the ase of ent sis ) .
use the ame rds or les of rds may be sed oss ins to ate the nce of ese her - vel pts ,
it uld be ble to ver hem .
ore , use eep ing its sed ing to ver ese pts , one can oit the rge nts of led ata oss all ins to arn ese ate ons .
ere , as in any her eep ing hes , we do not eer hat ese ate pts uld be , but in - ead use ric ing hms to ver hem .
ted ork
ing ups ing to ain ion ave een sed ore and hed der ent mes .
ume iii and rcu ( 123 ) zed the lem and sed an ach sed on a mix - ure del .
a ral way to ess ain pta - ion is ugh nce ing , in ich nce - ent hts are ded to the oss ion ( ang and hai , 123 ) .
her ion to ain ion can be to orm the ata nta - ons of the rce and get ins so hat hey ent the ame int ion of ons and els .
ben - vid et al .
( 123 ) lly yze the ect of ion nge for ain ion ile zer et al .
( 123 ) ose the ral cor - nce ing ( scl ) thm hat kes use of the led ata rom the get ain to nd a low - ank int ion of the ata .
lly , ain ion can be ply ted as a ard emi - sed lem by ing the do - ain nce and ing the rce ces as led ata and the get nes as led ata ( dai et al . , 123 ) .
in hat ase , the ork is ery ose to hat of elf - ght ing ( ina et al . , 123 ) , in ich one rns rom led les of ome ies as ell as led les rom a ger set of ies .
the ach of ina et al .
( 123 ) ies lly on the sed ing of a ion , ike the ach sed ere .
ons to ent ion
ent sis and ain ion are ely ted in the ure , and any rks ave ied ain ion ely for ent sis .
ong ose , a rge ity ose nts med on the ark ade of ews of ama - zon cts red by zer et al .
( 123 ) .
zon ata the ata set ses ore han 123 , 123 ews ing 123 ent uct 123 and for ich ews are led as her ive
the ata are ble rom ttp : / / www . cs . jhu . edu / ~ dze / ets / ent / .
it is lly sed of 123 ins but we ved 123 of hem ich ere ery all ( ess han 123 ces in tal ) .
ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
ble 123
zon ata ics .
his ble cts the ber of ing , ing and led les for ach ain , as ell as the ion of ive ing les for oth ons of the ata set .
ain ize est ize lab .
ize % neg
ete ( rge - ale ) ata set
or ive .
as led in ble 123 ( top ) , ere is a ast ity een ins in the tal ber of ces and in the ion of ive les .
nce his ata set is ous , ily bal - ced and rge - ale , a ler and ore led ion has een sed .
the ced ata set con - ins 123 ent ins : oks , vds , ics and hen ces .
ere are 123 ive and 123 ive ces for ach ain , as ell as a few and led les .
the ive and ive les are lso tly ced ( see the tom ion of ble 123 for ils ) .
his ter ver - ion is sed as a ark in the ure .
to the est of our dge , his per ill ain the rst hed lts on the rge zon set .
in the nal per ard - ing the ler 123 - ain ark set , zer et al .
( 123 ) apt ral nce arn - ing ( scl ) for ent sis .
li and ong ( 123 ) ose the lti - bel sus ing ( mct ) ach ich nes ral ase ssi - ers ned ith scl .
pan et al .
( 123 ) rst use a ral ure ent ( sfa ) thm to ign rds rom ent rce and get ins to elp dge the gap een hem .
ese 123 ods rve as ons in our cal ion .
eep ing ach
if eep ing hms are ble to ure , to ome ent , the ing ive ors hat ain the ons in the put ata , hat is re - lly ded to oit hat ity is for the ned ons to elp in ing the der - ing ors of ion .
the est and ost ful way his uld pen is if ome of the res ned ( the ual nts of the ned rep - ion ) are tly ted to nly ome of ese ors , aps nly one .
ely , it uld ean hat uch res uld ave ant ies , i . e . , hey uld be hly cic in eir nse to a sub - set ( ybe nly one ) of ese ors of ion and ive to the ers .
his sis was ted by low et al .
( 123 ) , for ges and ric ces ted ith nts of the era .
it is ing to ate eep ing hms on ent sis for ral ons .
rst , if hey can act res hat hat gle the un - ing ors of ion , his uld ely elp to orm fer oss ins , nce we ect hat ere ist ric pts hat ize uct ews oss any ins .
ond , for our ama - zon ets , we now ome of ese ors ( uch as her or not a iew is out a lar rod - uct , or is a ive sal for hat uct ) , so we can use his dge to ely eck to hat ent hey are led in the ned rep - ion : ain ion for ent sis mes a ium for ter ing eep ar - res .
lly , ven ugh eep ing lgo - hms ave not yet een ted for ain pta - ion of ent ers , ral ery ing re - lts ave een ted on her sks ing tex - ual ata , ing the ous ate - of - the - art in sev - ral ses ( nov and ton , 23; ert and ton , 23; ato and mer , 123 ) .
ked ing uto - ers
the sic ork for our els is the ked ing uto - der ( ent et al . , 123 ) .
an uto - der is sed of an der ion h ( ) and a der ion g ( ) , lly ith the men - ion of h ( ) ler han hat of its ent .
the ion of put x is ven by r ( x ) = g ( h ( x ) ) , and uto - ers are lly ned to ize a orm of ion ror oss ( x , r ( x ) ) .
les of ion ror ude the red ror , or ike ere , hen the nts of x or r ( x ) can be sid - red as ies of a ete ent , the ack -
ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
ler nce een nts of x and nts of r ( x ) .
hen the der and der are ear and the ion ror is tic , one ers in h ( x ) the ace of the pal nts ( pca ) of x .
nce an uto - der has een ned , one can ack her uto - der on top of it , by ing a ond one ich ees the ded put of the rst one as its ing ata .
ked uto - ers ere one of the rst ods for ing eep res ( gio et al . , 123 ) , ong ith ted ann ma - nes ( bms ) ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
nce a ack of uto - ers or bms has een ned , eir pa - ers ibe ple els of ion for x and can be sed to ize a sed eep neu - ral ork ( gio , 123 ) or tly eed a ier , as we do in his per .
an ing ive to the ary uto - der is the ing uto - der ( ent et al . , 123 ) or dae , in ich the put tor x is has - lly ted nto a tor x , and the del is ned to ise , i . e . , to ize a ing con - ion ror oss ( x , r ( x ) ) .
nce the dae not ply opy its put x in its ode yer h ( x ) , ven if the ion of h ( x ) is ter han hat of x .
the ing ror can be ked in ral ays to the ood of a ive del of the ion of the ted les x ( ent , 123 ) .
sed col
in our ing we ave ess to led ata rom ous ins , and to the els for one rce do - ain nly .
we kle the lem of ain pta - ion for ent ers ith a two - tep ure .
rst , a her - vel ure ion is rnt in an sed ion rom the ext ews of all the ble ins ing a ked ing uto - der ( sda ) ith ier its ( i . e .
max ( 123 , x ) ) for the ode yer .
bms ith ( oft ) ier its ave een ced in ( air and ton , 123 ) .
we ave sed uch its use hey ave een own to orm her non - ies on a ent nal - sis ask ( rot et al . , 123 ) .
the sda is rnt in a edy yer - ise ion ing tic ent ent .
for the rst yer , the non - ity of the der is the tic oid , the ion ess is a ing ise ( i . e .
ach ive put has a rob - ity p to be set to 123 ) 123 and the ing ion is the ack - ler nce .
the ier non - ity is too ard to be sed on put its : ion ror nts uld not ow if the
3we lso ied to set ive uts to 123 ith a ent
ity but we did not rve any ent .
ion was 123 ( ent of the ier is neg - ive ) hen the get is ive .
for ing the aes of per ers , we use the lus ion ion ( i . e .
log ( 123 + exp ( x ) ) , a oth ion of the ier ) as non - ity for the der put its .
we lso use the red ror as ion er - ror ion and a ian ion ise , ich is ded ore the ier non - ity of the put yer in der to eep the ity of the nta - ion .
the ode yer ons ( ter the ier ) , at ent ths , ene the new ons in a ond tep , a ear ier is ned on the med led ata of the rce ain .
sup - ort tor nes ( svm ) ing own to orm ell on ent ion ( ang et al . , 123 ) , we use a ear svm ith red nge oss .
his las - ier is lly ted on the get ain ( s ) .
the ous col its ing ies for ain ion of ent ers .
ing ain ion ods for ent sis cus on the ion rom the rce and get ons , eas the sda sed ing can use ata rom her ins , ing the ion oss all ose ins .
his lso re - ces the ion red to fer to ral ins use a gle und of sed ain - ing is red , and ows us to ale ell ith rge unt of ata and der eal - rld ons .
the ode ned by the sda is a non - ear map - ing of the put and can ore ode lex ata ons .
to the est of our dge , ex - ing ain ion ods for ent nal - sis map uts nto a new or an ted ace ing nly ear ons .
ore , ier non - ies ave the the ice ity to lly ide rse ons ( ith act ros ) for the ode yer , ich are ell ted to ear ssi - ers and are ent ith ect to nal ost and ory use .
cal ion 123 .
tal tup
for oth ata ets , the ing nds to the ing of ( zer et al . , 123 ) : ach iew ext is ted as a bag - of - rds and med nto bi - ary ors ing the nce / nce of uni - ams and ams .
for nal ons , nly the 123 ost ent rms of the ary of un - ams and ams are ept in the ure set
ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
ure 123
fer ses on the zon ark of 123 ins : hen ( k ) , ics ( e ) , vds ( d ) and oks ( b ) .
all ods are ned on the led set of one ain and ted on the est ets of the ers .
ash rms all ers on 123 out of 123 ses .
ure 123
eft : fer ios on the zon ark .
oth sda - sed ems rms the est ven if ash is ter .
ght : oxy a - ces een ins of the zon ark for the 123 ent irs .
ing ata ith ash ses the oxy a - nce .
ure 123
123 ure ion on the zon ark .
oth phs ict the ber of sks of ain ion ( x - xis ) and ent sis ( y - xis ) in ich a ure is re - sed by 123 - ers ned on raw res ( eft ) or res med by ash .
( ght ) .
see ion 123 for ils .
# ain ion ks# ent sis raw 23# ain ion ks# ent sis ash 23# 123 ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
use the ain / est its ven in ble 123
for all ex - nts , the ine is a ear svm ned on the raw ata eas our hod , ted ash , cor - nds to the ame ind of svm but ned and ted on ata for ich res ave een ans - med by the tem bed in ion 123
the per - ers of all vms are sen by oss - ion on the ing set .
red an ive for ash , we a ing ise ity in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ( its mal lue was lly igh : 123 ) ; a ian ise ard via - ion for per ers in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; a ize of den ers in ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 ays ave the est nce ) ; an 123 ion lty on the ion ues in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; a ing ate in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
all ues ere ted w . r . t .
the ged in - ain ida - ion ror .
all hms ere ted ing the ano ary ( tra et al . , 123 ) .
we ote by e ( s , t ) , the fer ror , ned as the est ror ned by a hod ned on the rce ain s and ted on the get ain t ( e ( t , t ) is med the in - ain ror ) .
the ain int of son in ain ion is the ine in - ain ror , ted eb ( t , t ) , ich nds to the est ror ned by the ine hod , i . e .
a ear svm on raw res ned and ted on the raw res of the get ain .
ith ese ons , we can ene the ard do - ain ion ric : the fer oss t .
the nce een the fer ror and the in - ain ine ror i . e .
t ( s , t ) = e ( s , t ) eb ( t , t ) for a rce ain s and a get ain t .
ely , hen one als ith a rge ber of ous ins ith ent ies ( as ith the rge zon ata ) , the fer oss is not ory .
in ion , ing its ean ver all pos - ble les of rce - get ins is rma - ive .
nce , we lso uce the ing ics :
fer tio q : it lso zes the ans - fer but is ned by ing the nce by a ent in t use his is ess ive to im - ant ons of in - ain ors , and hus ore ted to ing .
we ort its ean ver all rce - get les of the ata set : q = 123 eb ( t , t ) ( ith n the ber of les ( s , t ) ith s ( cid : 123 ) = t ) .
in - ain tio i : ome ain ion
ods , ike urs , orm the ure pre - ion of all the ins , ing the rce .
hus in - ain ors of uch ods are ier - ent rom ose of the ine .
the in - ain tio res his and is ned by : i = eb ( t , t ) ( ith m the tal ber of ins ) .
ark nts
on the ark of 123 ins , we are our do - ain ion col ith the 123 ods rom the ure ced in ion 123 : scl , sfa and mct .
we ort the lts rom the nal ers , ich ave een ned ing the ole ure vo - ary and on ent its , but of cal zes as urs .
rom our nce , lts are ent hat - ver the ain / est its as ong as set zes are pre - ved .
nce , one can eck hat all nes eve lar ces .
we lso ort lts ned by a ive svm ( ani and thi , 123 ) ned in a ard emi - sed tup : the ain - ing set of the rce ain is sed as led set , and the ing set of the her ins as the led set . 123 on his ata set ith a ely all ber of ing ces , our sed ure tor is ade of a gle yer of 123 its .
ain lts ure 123 cts the fer oss for all ods and for all rce - get ain irs .
the est fer is ved by the svm ned on our med res in 123 out of 123 ses ( scl is nly tly ter in hen ics ) and tly ter for 123 ses .
gly , for ach get ain , ere is one ase of ive fer oss for ash : an svm ned on a ent ain can orm an svm ned on the get ain use of the ity of our res .
ure 123 ( eft ) cts the fer tio for the ame ods lus the ive svm ( t - svm ) and a ond ion of our tem ted sda .
ary to ash , the sed ing of sda has not een med on all the ble ins but on les , as oes scl : for nce , to fer rom oks to dvd , the ure tor of sda is ned on ews rom ese 123 ins nly .
the fer ra - tio for sda ing her han for ash , we can con - ude hat ing the sed pre - ing oss all ins ( ven on ose ich are not tly con - ned ) is ial , as ted .
ure 123 lso ows hat the ion of an sed and a per -
123 non - ear els ( lps ) ere lso ted , ith a lar col as ted in ion 123 , but hey did not ach the nce in fer of the ase - ine .
we eve his is due to the all ing set ize .
ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
of res hat ave een re - sed for n ent nal - sis sks and for m ain ion sks .
com - ing phs ned ing raw ata and ata ans - med by the ash rms our sis : rel - ant res for ain ion and ent sis are far ess ing in the ter ase .
in - eed , a ete ure ing uld ead to a aph for ich nly the rst umn and the bot - tom ine uld be red , ing hat ach ure is her sed for ain ion or for ent ion , but not oth .
ing raw ata ith ash ngs res ser to hat ern .
rge - ale nts we now ent lts ned on the ger ion of the ata .
ese ons are ore tic and a ter ion of the eal - rld han ose of the ous nts : ore ins ith ier - ent and ger zes , ent ios een ive and ive les , etc .
we are 123 ods in ion to the ine : our ure tor ith ei - her one ( 123 ) or 123 ers ( 123 ) of 123 its , and a lti - yer ron ( mlp ) ith the low - ing ure : a max tic ion on top of one den yer ith 123 lic ent its .
ure 123 nts the fer tio of ach del ac - ing to eir in - ain tio .
ose lts rre - ond to the ing ged fer ion ors : ( ine ) - 23% , ( mlp ) - 23% , ( 123 ) - 23% and ( 123 ) - 23% .
ite the rge ber of ins and eir ity , ere is a ant ent for oth sda ems .
the nce of the mlp ows hat the non - ity lps but is not ent to her all ary for - ion rom ata : one eds an sed ase ich can ass ata rom all ins .
one can lso ify hat , on his rge - ale lem , a sin - gle yer is not ugh to ach mal nce .
ing 123 ers lds the est ion rom the ata .
it is rth ing hat the ent of 123 red to the ine is her on the y - xis han on the x - xis : the ion rnt by 123 is ore ial for fer han in - ain and is hus uly red to ain ion .
his per has ted hat a eep ing tem sed on ked ing uto - ers ith rse ier its can orm an sed ure ion ich is hly ial for the do - ain ion of ent ers .
eed , our nts ave own hat ear ers ned ith his her - vel rnt ure ion of
ure 123
fer ios ing to in - ain ra - ios on the rge - ale zon ata .
ems sed on ash are ter for oth ics and pth lps .
sed ase med by ash ( and sda ) per - rms the ure emi - sed t - svm .
in erm of ab - ute ion nce , we ned the fol - ing ged fer ion ors : ase - ine - 23% , sfa - 23% , ash - 23% .
a - nce the a - nce is a ure of lar - ity een two ity ons .
ben - vid et al .
( 123 ) wed hat the a - nce een the rce and get ons is a ial art of an per ion und for ain ion .
hey zed hat it uld be ult to dis - ate een the rce and get ins in der to ave a ood fer een hem , use his uld ply lar ure ons .
in rac - ice , ing the act a - nce is ble and one has to ute a oxy .
nce , we red the ion ror of a ear svm ier ned to ate een two ins .
our oxy for the a - nce is hen ned as da = 123 ( 123 123 ) .
ure 123 ( ght ) rts the lts for ach air of do - ins .
gly , da is sed in the new ure ace : ain ion is ved by the nsu - sed ure ion of ash .
tly , ing ben - vid et al .
( 123 ) , the ion of ash uld urt fer , but we lso rve an ent ( see ure 123 ) .
an ion uld be hat the sed ure ion les ain cic and ent ity ion .
to est his sis , we ned an 123 - zed svm to ect the ost ant res on 123 ain ion sks ( one per ain air ) , and 123 nti - ent sis sks ( one per ain lus all ins her ) .
ure 123 ows a ram of the ber of sks ted ith ual res , ted nto the ber of ain vs ent sks .
the lor vel at ate ( n , m ) tes the ber
ain ion for ent ion ith eep ing
ews orm the ent ate - of - the - art .
fur - ore , we ave een ble to lly orm ain ion on an ial - ale set of 123 ins , ere we tly ove iza - ion ver the ine and ver a rly red but ely sed ive .
his ork was ted by rpa dl ram , sng , acs , chp and net .
