neural machine translation is a recently proposed approach to machine transla - tion .
unlike the traditional statistical machine translation , the neural machine translation aims at building a single neural network that can be jointly tuned to maximize the translation performance .
the models proposed recently for neu - ral machine translation often belong to a family of encoderdecoders and encode a source sentence into a xed - length vector from which a decoder generates a translation .
in this paper , we conjecture that the use of a xed - length vector is a bottleneck in improving the performance of this basic encoderdecoder architec - ture , and propose to extend this by allowing a model to automatically ( soft - ) search for parts of a source sentence that are relevant to predicting a target word , without having to form these parts as a hard segment explicitly .
with this new approach , we achieve a translation performance comparable to the existing state - of - the - art phrase - based system on the task of english - to - french translation .
furthermore , qualitative analysis reveals that the ( soft - ) alignments found by the model agree well with our intuition .
neural machine translation is a newly emerging approach to machine translation , recently proposed by kalchbrenner and blunsom ( 123 ) , sutskever et al .
( 123 ) and cho et al .
( 123b ) .
unlike the traditional phrase - based translation system ( see , e . g . , koehn et al . , 123 ) which consists of many small sub - components that are tuned separately , neural machine translation attempts to build and train a single , large neural network that reads a sentence and outputs a correct translation .
most of the proposed neural machine translation models belong to a family of encoder decoders ( sutskever et al . , 123; cho et al . , 123a ) , with an encoder and a decoder for each lan - guage , or involve a language - specic encoder applied to each sentence whose outputs are then com - pared ( hermann and blunsom , 123 ) .
an encoder neural network reads and encodes a source sen - tence into a xed - length vector .
a decoder then outputs a translation from the encoded vector .
the whole encoderdecoder system , which consists of the encoder and the decoder for a language pair , is jointly trained to maximize the probability of a correct translation given a source sentence .
a potential issue with this encoderdecoder approach is that a neural network needs to be able to compress all the necessary information of a source sentence into a xed - length vector .
this may make it difcult for the neural network to cope with long sentences , especially those that are longer than the sentences in the training corpus .
cho et al .
( 123b ) showed that indeed the performance of a basic encoderdecoder deteriorates rapidly as the length of an input sentence increases .
in order to address this issue , we introduce an extension to the encoderdecoder model which learns to align and translate jointly .
each time the proposed model generates a word in a translation , it ( soft - ) searches for a set of positions in a source sentence where the most relevant information is concentrated .
the model then predicts a target word based on the context vectors associated with these source positions and all the previous generated target words .
cifar senior fellow
published as a conference paper at iclr 123
the most important distinguishing feature of this approach from the basic encoderdecoder is that it does not attempt to encode a whole input sentence into a single xed - length vector .
instead , it en - codes the input sentence into a sequence of vectors and chooses a subset of these vectors adaptively while decoding the translation .
this frees a neural translation model from having to squash all the information of a source sentence , regardless of its length , into a xed - length vector .
we show this allows a model to cope better with long sentences .
in this paper , we show that the proposed approach of jointly learning to align and translate achieves signicantly improved translation performance over the basic encoderdecoder approach .
the im - provement is more apparent with longer sentences , but can be observed with sentences of any length .
on the task of english - to - french translation , the proposed approach achieves , with a single model , a translation performance comparable , or close , to the conventional phrase - based system .
furthermore , qualitative analysis reveals that the proposed model nds a linguistically plausible ( soft - ) alignment between a source sentence and the corresponding target sentence .
123 background : neural machine translation
from a probabilistic perspective , translation is equivalent to nding a target sentence y that max - imizes the conditional probability of y given a source sentence x , i . e . , arg maxy p ( y | x ) .
neural machine translation , we t a parameterized model to maximize the conditional probability of sentence pairs using a parallel training corpus .
once the conditional distribution is learned by a translation model , given a source sentence a corresponding translation can be generated by searching for the sentence that maximizes the conditional probability .
recently , a number of papers have proposed the use of neural networks to directly learn this condi - tional distribution ( see , e . g . , kalchbrenner and blunsom , 123; cho et al . , 123a; sutskever et al . , 123; cho et al . , 123b; forcada and neco , 123 ) .
this neural machine translation approach typ - ically consists of two components , the rst of which encodes a source sentence x and the second decodes to a target sentence y .
for instance , two recurrent neural networks ( rnn ) were used by ( cho et al . , 123a ) and ( sutskever et al . , 123 ) to encode a variable - length source sentence into a xed - length vector and to decode the vector into a variable - length target sentence .
despite being a quite new approach , neural machine translation has already shown promising results .
sutskever et al .
( 123 ) reported that the neural machine translation based on rnns with long short - term memory ( lstm ) units achieves close to the state - of - the - art performance of the conventional phrase - based machine translation system on an english - to - french translation task . 123 adding neural components to existing translation systems , for instance , to score the phrase pairs in the phrase table ( cho et al . , 123a ) or to re - rank candidate translations ( sutskever et al . , 123 ) , has allowed to surpass the previous state - of - the - art performance level .
123 rnn encoderdecoder
here , we describe briey the underlying framework , called rnn encoderdecoder , proposed by cho et al .
( 123a ) and sutskever et al .
( 123 ) upon which we build a novel architecture that learns to align and translate simultaneously .
in the encoderdecoder framework , an encoder reads the input sentence , a sequence of vectors x = ( x123 , , xtx ) , into a vector c . 123 the most common approach is to use an rnn such that
ht = f ( xt , ht123 )
where ht rn is a hidden state at time t , and c is a vector generated from the sequence of the hidden states .
f and q are some nonlinear functions .
sutskever et al .
( 123 ) used an lstm as f and q ( ( h123 , , ht ) ) = ht , for instance .
c = q ( ( h123 , , htx ) ) ,
123 we mean by the state - of - the - art performance , the performance of the conventional phrase - based system
without using any neural network - based component .
123 although most of the previous works ( see , e . g . , cho et al . , 123a; sutskever et al . , 123; kalchbrenner and blunsom , 123 ) used to encode a variable - length input sentence into a xed - length vector , it is not necessary , and even it may be benecial to have a variable - length vector , as we will show later .
published as a conference paper at iclr 123
the decoder is often trained to predict the next word yt ( cid : 123 ) given the context vector c and all the previously predicted words ( y123 , , yt ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) .
in other words , the decoder denes a probability over the translation y by decomposing the joint probability into the ordered conditionals :
where y = ( cid : 123 ) y123 , , yty
p ( yt | ( y123 , , yt123 ) , c ) ,
( cid : 123 ) .
with an rnn , each conditional probability is modeled as
p ( yt | ( y123 , , yt123 ) , c ) = g ( yt123 , st , c ) ,
where g is a nonlinear , potentially multi - layered , function that outputs the probability of yt , and st is the hidden state of the rnn .
it should be noted that other architectures such as a hybrid of an rnn and a de - convolutional neural network can be used ( kalchbrenner and blunsom , 123 ) .
123 learning to align and translate
in this section , we propose a novel architecture for neural machine translation .
the new architecture consists of a bidirectional rnn as an encoder ( sec .
123 ) and a decoder that emulates searching through a source sentence during decoding a translation ( sec
123 decoder : general description
in a new model architecture , we dene each conditional probability in eq .
( 123 ) as :
p ( yi|y123 , .
, yi123 , x ) = g ( yi123 , si , ci ) ,
where si is an rnn hidden state for time i , computed by
si = f ( si123 , yi123 , ci ) .
it should be noted that unlike the existing encoderdecoder ap - proach ( see eq .
( 123 ) ) , here the probability is conditioned on a distinct context vector ci for each target word yi .
the context vector ci depends on a sequence of annotations ( h123 , , htx ) to which an encoder maps the input sentence .
each annotation hi contains information about the whole input sequence with a strong focus on the parts surrounding the i - th word of the input sequence .
we explain in detail how the annotations are com - puted in the next section .
the context vector ci is , then , computed as a weighted sum of these
figure 123 : the graphical illus - tration of the proposed model trying to generate the t - th tar - get word yt given a source sentence ( x123 , x123 , .
, xt ) .
the weight ij of each annotation hj is computed by
k=123 exp ( eik )
eij = a ( si123 , hj )
is an alignment model which scores how well the inputs around position j and the output at position i match .
the score is based on the rnn hidden state si123 ( just before emitting yi , eq .
( 123 ) ) and the j - th annotation hj of the input sentence .
we parametrize the alignment model a as a feedforward neural network which is jointly trained with all the other components of the proposed system .
note that unlike in traditional machine translation ,
x123x123x123xt+t , 123t , 123t , 123t , tyt - 123yth123h123h123hth123h123h123htst - 123st published as a conference paper at iclr 123
the alignment is not considered to be a latent variable .
instead , the alignment model directly com - putes a soft alignment , which allows the gradient of the cost function to be backpropagated through .
this gradient can be used to train the alignment model as well as the whole translation model jointly .
we can understand the approach of taking a weighted sum of all the annotations as computing an expected annotation , where the expectation is over possible alignments .
let ij be a probability that the target word yi is aligned to , or translated from , a source word xj .
then , the i - th context vector ci is the expected annotation over all the annotations with probabilities ij .
the probability ij , or its associated energy eij , reects the importance of the annotation hj with respect to the previous hidden state si123 in deciding the next state si and generating yi .
intuitively , this implements a mechanism of attention in the decoder .
the decoder decides parts of the source sentence to pay attention to .
by letting the decoder have an attention mechanism , we relieve the encoder from the burden of having to encode all information in the source sentence into a xed - length vector .
with this new approach the information can be spread throughout the sequence of annotations , which can be selectively retrieved by the decoder accordingly .
123 encoder : bidirectional rnn for annotating sequences
the usual rnn , described in eq .
( 123 ) , reads an input sequence x in order starting from the rst symbol x123 to the last one xtx .
however , in the proposed scheme , we would like the annotation of each word to summarize not only the preceding words , but also the following words .
hence , we propose to use a bidirectional rnn ( birnn , schuster and paliwal , 123 ) , which has been successfully used recently in speech recognition ( see , e . g . , graves et al . , 123 ) .
a birnn consists of forward and backward rnns .
the forward rnn as it is ordered ( from x123 to xtx ) and calculates a sequence of forward hidden states ( the backward rnn sequence of backward hidden states (
f reads the input sequence
h tx ) .
f reads the sequence in the reverse order ( from xtx to x123 ) , resulting in a
h 123 , ,
h 123 , ,
h tx ) .
h j , i . e . , hj =
we obtain an annotation for each word xj by concatenating the forward hidden state h j and the .
in this way , the annotation hj contains the summaries of both the preceding words and the following words .
due to the tendency of rnns to better represent recent inputs , the annotation hj will be focused on the words around xj .
this sequence of annotations is used by the decoder and the alignment model later to compute the context vector see fig .
123 for the graphical illustration of the proposed model .
123 experiment settings
we evaluate the proposed approach on the task of english - to - french translation .
we use the bilin - gual , parallel corpora provided by acl wmt 123 as a comparison , we also report the perfor - mance of an rnn encoderdecoder which was proposed recently by cho et al .
( 123a ) .
we use the same training procedures and the same dataset for both models . 123
wmt 123 contains the following english - french parallel corpora : europarl ( 123m words ) , news commentary ( 123m ) , un ( 123m ) and two crawled corpora of 123m and 123m words respectively , totaling 123m words .
following the procedure described in cho et al .
( 123a ) , we reduce the size of the combined corpus to have 123m words using the data selection method by axelrod et al .
( 123 ) . 123 we do not use any monolingual data other than the mentioned parallel corpora , although it may be possible to use a much larger monolingual corpus to pretrain an encoder .
we concatenate news - test -
123 implementations are available at https : / / github . com / lisa - groundhog / groundhog .
123 available online at http : / / www - lium . univ - lemans . fr / schwenk / cslm_joint_paper / .
published as a conference paper at iclr 123
figure 123 : the bleu scores of the generated translations on the test set with respect to the lengths of the sen - tences .
the results are on test set which in - cludes sentences having un - known words to the models .
123 and news - test - 123 to make a development ( validation ) set , and evaluate the models on the test set ( news - test - 123 ) from wmt 123 , which consists of 123 sentences not present in the training after a usual tokenization123 , we use a shortlist of 123 , 123 most frequent words in each language to train our models .
any word not included in the shortlist is mapped to a special token ( ( unk ) ) .
we do not apply any other special preprocessing , such as lowercasing or stemming , to the data .
we train two types of models .
the rst one is an rnn encoderdecoder ( rnnencdec , cho et al . , 123a ) , and the other is the proposed model , to which we refer as rnnsearch .
we train each model twice : rst with the sentences of length up to 123 words ( rnnencdec - 123 , rnnsearch - 123 ) and then with the sentences of length up to 123 word ( rnnencdec - 123 , rnnsearch - 123 ) .
the encoder and decoder of the rnnencdec have 123 hidden units each . 123 the encoder of the rnnsearch consists of forward and backward recurrent neural networks ( rnn ) each having 123 hidden units .
its decoder has 123 hidden units .
in both cases , we use a multilayer network with a single maxout ( goodfellow et al . , 123 ) hidden layer to compute the conditional probability of each target word ( pascanu et al . , 123 ) .
we use a minibatch stochastic gradient descent ( sgd ) algorithm together with adadelta ( zeiler , 123 ) to train each model .
each sgd update direction is computed using a minibatch of 123 sen - tences .
we trained each model for approximately 123 days .
once a model is trained , we use a beam search to nd a translation that approximately maximizes the conditional probability ( see , e . g . , graves , 123; boulanger - lewandowski et al . , 123 ) .
sutskever et al .
( 123 ) used this approach to generate translations from their neural machine translation model .
for more details on the architectures of the models and training procedure used in the experiments , see appendices a and b .
123 quantitative results
in table 123 , we list the translation performances measured in bleu score .
it is clear from the table that in all the cases , the proposed rnnsearch outperforms the conventional rnnencdec .
more importantly , the performance of the rnnsearch is as high as that of the conventional phrase - based translation system ( moses ) , when only the sentences consisting of known words are considered .
this is a signicant achievement , considering that moses uses a separate monolingual corpus ( 123m words ) in addition to the parallel corpora we used to train the rnnsearch and rnnencdec .
123 we used the tokenization script from the open - source machine translation package , moses .
123 in this paper , by a hidden unit , we always mean the gated hidden unit ( see appendix a . 123 ) .
123sentencelength123bleuscorernnsearch - 123rnnsearch - 123rnnenc - 123rnnenc - 123 published as a conference paper at iclr 123
figure 123 : four sample alignments found by rnnsearch - 123
the x - axis and y - axis of each plot correspond to the words in the source sentence ( english ) and the generated translation ( french ) , respectively .
each pixel shows the weight ij of the annotation of the j - th source word for the i - th target word ( see eq .
( 123 ) ) , in grayscale ( 123 : black , 123 : white ) .
( a ) an arbitrary sentence .
( bd ) three randomly selected samples among the sentences without any unknown words and of length between 123 and 123 words from the test set .
one of the motivations behind the proposed approach was the use of a xed - length context vector in the basic encoderdecoder approach .
we conjectured that this limitation may make the basic encoderdecoder approach to underperform with long sentences .
in fig .
123 , we see that the perfor - mance of rnnencdec dramatically drops as the length of the sentences increases .
on the other hand , both rnnsearch - 123 and rnnsearch - 123 are more robust to the length of the sentences .
rnnsearch - 123 , especially , shows no performance deterioration even with sentences of length 123 or more .
this superiority of the proposed model over the basic encoderdecoder is further conrmed by the fact that the rnnsearch - 123 even outperforms rnnencdec - 123 ( see table 123 ) .
theagreementontheeuropeaneconomicareawassignedinaugust123<end>l ' accordsurlazoneconomiqueeuropenneatsignenaot123<end>itshouldbenotedthatthemarineenvironmentistheleastknownofenvironments . <end>ilconvientdenoterquel ' environnementmarinestlemoinsconnudel ' environnement . <end>destructionoftheequipmentmeansthatsyriacannolongerproducenewchemicalweapons . <end>ladestructiondel ' quipementsignifiequelasyrienepeutplusproduiredenouvellesarmeschimiques . <end> " thiswillchangemyfuturewithmyfamily , " themansaid . <end> " celavachangermonaveniravecmafamille " , aditl ' homme . <end> published as a conference paper at iclr 123
table 123 : bleu scores of the trained models com - puted on the test set .
the second and third columns show respectively the scores on all the sentences and , on the sentences without any unknown word in them - selves and in the reference translations .
note that rnnsearch - 123 ( cid : 123 ) was trained much longer until the performance on the development set stopped improv - ing .
( ) we disallowed the models to generate ( unk ) tokens when only the sentences having no unknown words were evaluated ( last column ) .
123 qualitative analysis
the proposed approach provides an intuitive way to inspect the ( soft - ) alignment between the words in a generated translation and those in a source sentence .
this is done by visualizing the annotation weights ij from eq .
( 123 ) , as in fig .
each row of a matrix in each plot indicates the weights associated with the annotations .
from this we see which positions in the source sentence were considered more important when generating the target word .
we can see from the alignments in fig .
123 that the alignment of words between english and french is largely monotonic .
we see strong weights along the diagonal of each matrix .
however , we also observe a number of non - trivial , non - monotonic alignments .
adjectives and nouns are typically ordered differently between french and english , and we see an example in fig .
from this gure , we see that the model correctly translates a phrase ( european economic area ) into ( zone economique europeen ) .
the rnnsearch was able to correctly align ( zone ) with ( area ) , jumping over the two words ( ( european ) and ( economic ) ) , and then looked one word back at a time to complete the whole phrase ( zone economique europeenne ) .
the strength of the soft - alignment , opposed to a hard - alignment , is evident , for instance , from fig .
consider the source phrase ( the man ) which was translated into ( l homme ) .
any hard alignment will map ( the ) to ( l ) and ( man ) to ( homme ) .
this is not helpful for translation , as one must consider the word following ( the ) to determine whether it should be translated into ( le ) , ( la ) , ( les ) or ( l ) .
our soft - alignment solves this issue naturally by letting the model look at both ( the ) and ( man ) , and in this example , we see that the model was able to correctly translate ( the ) into ( l ) .
we observe similar behaviors in all the presented cases in fig .
an additional benet of the soft align - ment is that it naturally deals with source and target phrases of different lengths , without requiring a counter - intuitive way of mapping some words to or from nowhere ( ( null ) ) ( see , e . g . , chapters 123 and 123 of koehn , 123 ) .
123 . 123 long sentences
as clearly visible from fig .
123 the proposed model ( rnnsearch ) is much better than the conventional model ( rnnencdec ) at translating long sentences .
this is likely due to the fact that the rnnsearch does not require encoding a long sentence into a xed - length vector perfectly , but only accurately encoding the parts of the input sentence that surround a particular word .
as an example , consider this source sentence from the test set :
an admitting privilege is the right of a doctor to admit a patient to a hospital or a medical centre to carry out a diagnosis or a procedure , based on his status as a health care worker at a hospital .
the rnnencdec - 123 translated this sentence into :
un privil`ege dadmission est le droit dun medecin de reconnatre un patient `a lhopital ou un centre medical dun diagnostic ou de prendre un diagnostic en fonction de son etat de sante .
published as a conference paper at iclr 123
the rnnencdec - 123 correctly translated the source sentence until ( a medical center ) .
however , from there on ( underlined ) , it deviated from the original meaning of the source sentence .
for instance , it replaced ( based on his status as a health care worker at a hospital ) in the source sentence with ( en fonction de son etat de sante ) ( based on his state of health ) .
on the other hand , the rnnsearch - 123 generated the following correct translation , preserving the whole meaning of the input sentence without omitting any details :
un privil`ege dadmission est le droit dun medecin dadmettre un patient `a un hopital ou un centre medical pour effectuer un diagnostic ou une procedure , selon son statut de travailleur des soins de sante `a lhopital .
let us consider another sentence from the test set :
this kind of experience is part of disneys efforts to extend the lifetime of its series and build new relationships with audiences via digital platforms that are becoming ever more important , he added .
the translation by the rnnencdec - 123 is
ce type dexperience fait partie des initiatives du disney pour prolonger la duree de vie de ses nouvelles et de developper des liens avec les lecteurs numeriques qui deviennent plus complexes .
as with the previous example , the rnnencdec began deviating from the actual meaning of the source sentence after generating approximately 123 words ( see the underlined phrase ) .
after that point , the quality of the translation deteriorates , with basic mistakes such as the lack of a closing again , the rnnsearch - 123 was able to translate this long sentence correctly :
ce genre dexperience fait partie des efforts de disney pour prolonger la duree de vie de ses series et creer de nouvelles relations avec des publics via des plateformes numeriques de plus en plus importantes , a - t - il ajoute .
in conjunction with the quantitative results presented already , these qualitative observations con - rm our hypotheses that the rnnsearch architecture enables far more reliable translation of long sentences than the standard rnnencdec model .
in appendix c , we provide a few more sample translations of long source sentences generated by the rnnencdec - 123 , rnnsearch - 123 and google translate along with the reference translations .
123 related work
123 learning to align
a similar approach of aligning an output symbol with an input symbol was proposed recently by graves ( 123 ) in the context of handwriting synthesis .
handwriting synthesis is a task where the model is asked to generate handwriting of a given sequence of characters .
in his work , he used a mixture of gaussian kernels to compute the weights of the annotations , where the location , width and mixture coefcient of each kernel was predicted from an alignment model .
more specically , his alignment was restricted to predict the location such that the location increases monotonically .
the main difference from our approach is that , in ( graves , 123 ) , the modes of the weights of the annotations only move in one direction .
in the context of machine translation , this is a severe limi - tation , as ( long - distance ) reordering is often needed to generate a grammatically correct translation ( for instance , english - to - german ) .
our approach , on the other hand , requires computing the annotation weight of every word in the source sentence for each word in the translation .
this drawback is not severe with the task of translation in which most of input and output sentences are only 123 words .
however , this may limit the applicability of the proposed scheme to other tasks .
published as a conference paper at iclr 123
123 neural networks for machine translation
since bengio et al .
( 123 ) introduced a neural probabilistic language model which uses a neural net - work to model the conditional probability of a word given a xed number of the preceding words , neural networks have widely been used in machine translation .
however , the role of neural net - works has been largely limited to simply providing a single feature to an existing statistical machine translation system or to re - rank a list of candidate translations provided by an existing system .
for instance , schwenk ( 123 ) proposed using a feedforward neural network to compute the score of a pair of source and target phrases and to use the score as an additional feature in the phrase - based statistical machine translation system .
more recently , kalchbrenner and blunsom ( 123 ) and devlin et al .
( 123 ) reported the successful use of the neural networks as a sub - component of the existing translation system .
traditionally , a neural network trained as a target - side language model has been used to rescore or rerank a list of candidate translations ( see , e . g . , schwenk et al . , 123 ) .
although the above approaches were shown to improve the translation performance over the state - of - the - art machine translation systems , we are more interested in a more ambitious objective of designing a completely new translation system based on neural networks .
the neural machine trans - lation approach we consider in this paper is therefore a radical departure from these earlier works .
rather than using a neural network as a part of the existing system , our model works on its own and generates a translation from a source sentence directly .
the conventional approach to neural machine translation , called an encoderdecoder approach , en - codes a whole input sentence into a xed - length vector from which a translation will be decoded .
we conjectured that the use of a xed - length context vector is problematic for translating long sen - tences , based on a recent empirical study reported by cho et al .
( 123b ) and pouget - abadie et al .
in this paper , we proposed a novel architecture that addresses this issue .
we extended the basic encoderdecoder by letting a model ( soft - ) search for a set of input words , or their annotations com - puted by an encoder , when generating each target word .
this frees the model from having to encode a whole source sentence into a xed - length vector , and also lets the model focus only on information relevant to the generation of the next target word .
this has a major positive impact on the ability of the neural machine translation system to yield good results on longer sentences .
unlike with the traditional machine translation systems , all of the pieces of the translation system , including the alignment mechanism , are jointly trained towards a better log - probability of producing correct we tested the proposed model , called rnnsearch , on the task of english - to - french translation .
the experiment revealed that the proposed rnnsearch outperforms the conventional encoderdecoder model ( rnnencdec ) signicantly , regardless of the sentence length and that it is much more ro - bust to the length of a source sentence .
from the qualitative analysis where we investigated the ( soft - ) alignment generated by the rnnsearch , we were able to conclude that the model can cor - rectly align each target word with the relevant words , or their annotations , in the source sentence as it generated a correct translation .
perhaps more importantly , the proposed approach achieved a translation performance comparable to the existing phrase - based statistical machine translation .
it is a striking result , considering that the proposed architecture , or the whole family of neural machine translation , has only been proposed as recently as this year .
we believe the architecture proposed here is a promising step toward better machine translation and a better understanding of natural languages in general .
one of challenges left for the future is to better handle unknown , or rare words .
this will be required for the model to be more widely used and to match the performance of current state - of - the - art machine translation systems in all contexts .
published as a conference paper at iclr 123
the authors would like to thank the developers of theano ( bergstra et al . , 123; bastien et al . , 123 ) .
we acknowledge the support of the following agencies for research funding and computing support : nserc , calcul quebec , compute canada , the canada research chairs and cifar .
bah - danau thanks the support from planet intelligent systems gmbh .
we also thank felix hill , bart van merrienboer , jean pouget - abadie , coline devin and tae - ho kim .
