an ap to se - su le is pr - po th is ba on a ga ra el mo .
la an un da ar re - re as ve in a we gr , wi ed we en th si be in - st .
th le pr is th fo in te of a ga ra el on th gr , wh th me of th el is ch in te of ha fu , an is ef ob us ma me or be pr - ga .
th re le al ha in co wi ra wa , el - tr ne , an sp gr th .
we di - cu me to in cl pr an th pr of cl ob by su le .
we al pr a me of pa le by en mi , an sh th al ab to pe fe se .
pr ex re ar pr fo sy da , di cl , an te cl -
in ma tr ap to ma le , a ta - ge fu is es us la da , wh ca be th of as ex gi by a te to a st .
la ex ar of , ho , ve ti co - in an ex to ob , as th re th ef of hu an , wh mu of be qu sk .
fo in - st , ob a si la ex fo pr sh cl , wh is on of th gr ch of bi - lo an co sc , re mo of ex - pe an by ex cr .
th pr of ef co un da wi la da is th of ce im in ma le .
th se - su le pr ha at an in - cr am of in re , an se no ap - pr ha be pr we re to ( se , 12 ) fo an ov .
am th me is a pr fa - il of te th ex th ma st of th da su me ar ge ba up an as th si un ex sh be gi th sa cl .
in th pa we in a ne ap to se - su le th is ba on a ra el mo de on a we gr ov th un an la da , wh th we ar gi in te of a si - il fu be in .
un ot re wo ba on en mi an ra el in ma le ( bl & ch , 12 ) an im pr ( bo et al . , 12 ) , we ad ga el ov a co st sp ra th ra el ov th di la se .
th re - la to a co ra th di sa sp re in ma at pr .
in pa , th mo pr co of th el is un , is ch - iz in te of ha fu , an ha a cl fo so th ca be co us ma me or lo be pr ( we et al . , 12 ) .
in co , fo mu - la di ra el , co th lo - es en co is ty np - ha , an ap - ma al or ot he mu be us ( bo et al . , 12 ) .
th re cl al fo ga el ca be vi as a fo of ne ne - bo ap , wh th ne la ex ar co - pu in te of a ra wa on th gr .
th le me in he ha in co wi ra wa , el ne , an sp gr th - or , in pa he ke an no cu .
in ou ba ap th so is so ba on th st of th da ma , wh is de fr da fe .
in pr , ho , th de ma st - tu ma be in fo ac cl
pr of th tw in co on ma le ( ic - 12 ) , wa dc , 12
to ta va -
is th co
ou st is to rs co a re - va fu
, we fo is an in is th pa fu , wh no ov
it is no di to sh th th mi en fu is ha na , it sa
we ar po , of co , an ma be mo ap - is di or sy .
fo ou pu th fu sp th da ma st ( se
in , we wa un po th ar ne in th gr to ha si la .
th mo th ch of th qu en fu
on wi ce ni pr , an to th as la ba on .
we co k on th la da ! e . f@ .
to as a pr di on fu th ga el te pa , an al fu co to on th la da .
, an is eq to ! + on un da po on th la da po la , gi in ma fo as is th di ma wi en ) km is th we ma .
th ha pr me th th va of un da po is th av of _ wi re to th gr .
ex sl di , pr of ha fu ( do & sn , 12 ) , _ un an is ei a co or it sa ma op , we sp th we ma ) in 12 bl af th th ro an co :
de th va on th un - la da po , th ha so is gi by
to co th ha so ex in te of
wh is co wi ou pr no of sm of
be of th ma
fi ra el us in th wo ar co on la an un ex .
we fo a gr wi we ed be in ( in th ca sc di ) , wi la da it ap as sp bo , an un po as in .
we co ga ra el on th gr .
sh ho th ex ev of cl pr ca he cl - ca in se 12
al , we ma co ex - na cl us ve we or as co , as de in se 12
en ex re - su fo sy da , di cl , an te cl - si ta ar pr in se 12
on di wi th ra el ap is th th ri ch of gr is of no en cl , an it ma be de to le it fr da .
in se 12 we pr a me fo le th we by en mi , an sh th al ab to pe fe se to be ch th da ma .
ba fr
we su th ar la po
an un po ; ty le " ! #% be th to nu of da po .
to be - gi , we as th la ar bi : ( ' * ) , + - . / .
co a co gr ! 12 wi no in to th da po , wi no " ! 12 ) 12 : / co - sp to th la po wi la
no ! = ) >$ ? . 12 / co to th un - be po .
ou ta is to as la to no as an cb sy we ma of th gr is gi .
fo ex , wh ' gf
is th ) - th co of in
as a ve
ar le sc hy fo ea di .
th , ne po in eu sp ar as la ed we
on th ed
we ma ca be
fi of ha en mi on tw sy da .
la sy in la da , ot po ar un .
in th pa we fo on th ab ha fu as a ba fo se - su cl .
ho , we em - ph th th ga ra el mo fr wh th fu is de pr th le fr wi a co pr se .
in th fo , we re to th pr de ab as ha en mi , to un th ha - mo pr ( 12 ) as we as th ob fu be mi .
fi 12 de th us of ha en - er mi on tw sy da .
th le gu
sh th th da ha th ba , wi ! ,
gf ; th ri gu sh tw sp , wi .
, an ( .
he we se ha
en mi cl fo th st of da , wh ob me su as kn wo fa to do so .
in an co
as ou br in th se , th ba fr pr - se in th pr se ca be vi in se fu - da di wa , an th di vi pr a ri an co se of te fo re - so ab th ap to th se - su le
ra wa an el ne
is th pr th
la 12
he th la da is vi as an ab bo fo th ra wa .
im a pa wa al th gr fr an un no , it mo to a no wi pr - kn af on st .
th wa co un th pa - ti hi a la no .
th th pa , st fr no , hi a la no wi en .
fi , we x th va of on th la po ,
th vi of th ha so in th it is cl re to th ra wa ap of sz an ja ( 12 ) , ho th ar tw ma di -
an se , ou so is an eq st , ex in te of a hi ti , wh in ( sz & ja ,
gr ke
we wi re to th po wh di he ke .
is th vo in th re el ne on ea of
th so to th he eq on th gr wi in
be ch us an au te , fo ex cr -
an la ( 12 ) pr th as an ap ke fo ma le wi ca da .
wh us in a ke me su as a su ve ma , th ke
an el ne in is gi in ( do & to be re wi to a po
ha pr he fo fr ki an oh la , an th ma pr th sh th th is pr th sa so ob in ( 12 ) .
12 ) th wa cr de on th ti pa .
sn , 12 ) .
im th ed of .
we co no la .
to gr .
th vo so , an po la th un no .
fu mi th en fo th gi di of th el ne th so ca be vi fr th vi of sp - tr gr th .
th he ke wi ti pa on th gr
is de as co be a po so at at ti ! + .
ko
i ) ca be vi as a so to th he eq wi in he so on th la da .
th ti pa mu , ho , de of , th di ti .
le , be th lo ri la re to th un no in de he di on th un su wi ! ? , wh ca be ex in te of th in ov ti of th he ke
a ke cl wi th ke la . ) fr ( 12 ) we al se th th sp of is th sp of / , wh ) %$ > .
th in
ex ( 12 ) sh th th ap ca be vi as an a sp fo of ke ma .
( se al ( ch & ya , 12 ) , wh a no la is us in of th co
a co to th wo of ch et al .
( 12 ) , wh ma - ni th ei of th la to cr va
di bo co on th la no .
th is th in op of th re
ou al us a di ap wh is in -
th ha so ( 12 ) ca th be wr as
th he ke on th su :
, it is th
ke .
a re ap is gi by be an ni
sp cl an gr mi
th no cu ap of sh an ma ( 12 ) ha as it ob fu th mi of th ra
sm ei of th ge ei pr .
yu an sh ( 12 ) ad a gr bi to th no cu to sp wh po sh be in th sa gr .
si la da ca be en in su pa gr co , th te ca be ap to se - su le as we .
is cl to bl di , it ca be sh th da po ar ti cl in th ei sp ( ng et al . , 12 me & sh , 12 ) , le to va sp cl al -
( 12 ) , wh pr to re fu on by se - in th to no ei of to th sm ei , th ob th be t to in th le sq se .
we re th ou ts th la da ex , wh th or ap ma su to th co .
th so is th se by th rs fe ei of fo th wo is al a we gr mi - cu , wh ne la da is co ( wi la we ) to a sp so no , an po la da is co to a sp si no .
a mi - - cu , wh is no ne un , mi th an co to a fu . 12 . f / ; th $ . / , bu th el is pi on ov th la sp )
pe th mo in an su co to th me we pr he is th gr mi ap pr by bl an ch ( 12 ) .
th st po , bu th se - su le pr is ca as on of nd a
th la en .
be of th co , ap - ti me ba on ra mi ma ch th ap to th fe is mo un ca - no be us .
mo , mu - la ex ar ge np - ha in th fr .
in co , th ha so - lu ca be co ef us ma me , ev in th mu - la ca , an in fo th ga ra el ca be ef an ac ca ou us lo be pr ( we et al . , 12 ) .
so ca be ob us li pr .
th co ra el mo is a tr el
in cl pr kn
to la , th ob de ru is to
te to pr se un cl .
we ca th ru th ha th ( ab th be ) .
in te of th ra wa in -
mo li to re a po la po be a ne - at la po .
th de ru wo we wh th cl ar we se .
ho in re da ,
, wh sp th da ma , is of po es in pr an do no re th cl go .
in ot wo , we sh no fu tr th gr st .
th cl pr ar a va pi of co in
to go fr as la 12 to no z , an la 12 ot - z , th st at , th ra wa is cl ar of no id se , an us th pr st fr th fa th as th de pr fo cl 12 an 12 ar
, re , wh th va ar ei gi th ma of cl 12 to be b , an th ma of cl 12 b .
cl ma no sc th ma so th an un po
by an or or es fr la da .
we ad a si pr ca cl ma no ( cm ) to ad th cl di to ma th pr
th me ex na to th ge mu - la
is cl as cl 12
in ex cl
of we ha an ex cl at ha , wh is co - st on la da al .
in th se we su ho th ca be co wi ha en mi -
th or gr , we at a do no wh is a la -
as th ex cl pr la % on th un da ca be 12 / 12 or so la in wi ha en mi by a si - pl mo of th gr .
fo ea un no k , le th tr pr fr be no wi va b to it do be , an di al ot tr fr
we th pe ha en mi on th au gr .
th , th ex cl in - tr as co to th en fu , wh pl th ro of ve po in th ra el .
is no di to sh th th ha so on th au gr is , in th ra wa vi ,
we no th th th pa we ha as th la da to be no fr , an so cl th va
ma se .
if th is re to do th as , it wo be re to at do to la no as we , an to mo th la to th ne no .
le th we ma
sh to be us as a fe se me wh be al th gr st wi th da .
th us pa le cr is to ma th li of la da .
ho , th li cr -
an xe .
in th se , we in le we fu of th fo gi by eq ( 12 ) .
we wi le
is th en of th el at th in un da re on th ma pr of ha fu
la da ar xe du tr , an mo li - ho do ma se fo th un da be we do no ha a ge mo .
we pr in to us av la en as a he cr fo pa le .
th av la en
pr we as th th we ma w s fr bo la an un da th wi be ri is no ap in th ca be th va fo of th el
po .
he we us th ra wa in of fo $ .
sm wh gu th en im th th in th a go / ) sh re in a co la .
we ar co on th la da of th sm an le it we to tu th ( mi at 12 as ( + .
as th le sc ap th is cl to so la po ; s la , pu ( 12 ) la wi
ze , th ta of th we fu ( 12 ) is in se - si to th di .
in th en , th la pr fo an un ex is do by it ne ne la , wh re in th fo eq la pr : ( 12 ) st fr th la da se , nd th
in th la se an re - pe .
si th ar ha la , th en is ze .
th so is de on wh th cl ar ex we se , an ca be ex to be in ot -
th ar of co ma ar la of th da th ha lo en , wh mi su th th cr wi no wo .
ho , it is im to po ou th
ar lo en la ar in wi th co .
in fa , we nd th th sp of lo en la ac by ha en mi is
is cl to 12 or 12 th ca ( eq , a go se of hy -
th is a co , ho , wh is th
is th un ma
th gr is co as
th co ca be av by sm th tr - si ma .
in by an of th pa al -
ri in ( ng et al . , 12 ) , we re wi th sm we us gr de to nd th hy (
w ca be re of th ve
w , wh is gi by wh th va
w ar su - ma of
us th fa th )
si th or tr ma ta by no th we ma
in th ab de we us as la pr di - re th is , k cl b .
if we in -
an we us th pr in pl of
ra cl pr in , or co ha en mi wi ot cl , it ma se to mi - im en on th co pr .
fo in , if we in a cl pr us cm , th pr is gi by
in ( 12 ) .
th de of th gr de ru is a st ex of th ab an .
, we ha th
ex re
we rs ev ha en mi on a ha - wr di da , or fr th ce bu bi di da ( hu , 12 ) .
th di we pr - pr to re th si of ea im do to a gr by do - sa an ga sm - in , wi pi va ra fr 12 to 12 ( le cu et al . , 12 ) .
ea im is th re by a 12 - di ve .
we co th we ma ( 12 ) wi te , we pe
fo ea la se si
la se si
cm + vp th + vp
la se si
la se si
fi en mi on di 12 .
12 ( le ) an on al 12 di ( mi ) an co vo - pe wi ha en mi on od vs .
ev di ( ri )
la se si
la se si
la se si
fi en mi on pc vs .
ma ( le ) , ba vs .
ho ( mi ) , an ms - wi vs .
ma ( ri )
12 tr .
in ea tr we ra sa la da fr th en da , an us th re of th im as un da .
if an cl is ab fr th sa la - be se , we re th sa .
fo me th in - fr th la se wi
ra cl pr , we es
la ( ad on ) sm .
we co th bi pr of cl di 12 vs .
12 , wi 12 im in ea cl .
we re av - ag ac of th fo me on un da : th , cm , 12 , an a ra ba fu cl
rb an 12 ar us si as ba .
th re ar sh in fi 12
cl th pe po , be
it of ex ar cl as di 12
th sh th in of th we fu ( 12 ) ba on pi - wi
( rb ) wh cl to cl 12 if th va of ar ge cl to 12 , so th ma - eu di .
ho th re ra of
, so th th cl pr ts th pr me is in to cm du to th er in es
ar us , an wh co wi cl pr in si im ac is ob .
th gr im is ac by th si me cm .
we co al ha ad th de th on th
an it is no sh in th pl .
th sa ob ar al tr fo th ex we pe on se ot bi di cl pr .
we al co th 12 - wa pr of cl di 12 th 12
we re th re on a da wi in - te un cl si , wi 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ex pe cl , re - ti ( no th th re on a ba da ar si - il ) .
we re th av ac of th , cm , rb , an 12 .
th me ca ha mu - wa cl - ti di , or wi sl mo in a on - ag - al fa .
as th re in fi 12 sh , cm ag im - pr pe by in cl pr .
ne we re th re of do ca ex - pe us th 12 ne da .
we pi th bi pr : pc ( nu of do : 12 ) vs .
ma ( 12 ) , ms - wi ( 12 ) vs .
ma , an ba - ba ( 12 ) vs .
ho ( 12 ) .
ea do is mi pr in a tf . id ve , wi ap he re - mo , fr cu , st , or a st li
12 ne ne or if bo , as me by co si .
we us th fo - in we fu on th ed :
is am s 12 ne ne -
ar co by an ed if
we us on - ne ne an th vo pe al - go ( fr & sc , 12 ) ( 12 ep wi a li -
ea ke ) as ba re wi su ve ma - ch ar co .
th re ar sh in fi 12
as be , ea po is th av of 12 ra tr - al .
fo th da , ha en mi pe mu be th th ba .
th im fr th cl pr , ho , is le si .
an ex fo wh th ap to se - su le is so ef - ti on th ne da ma li in th co us of
qu wi a to th : do qu pa of
al do fa ap in th th ma be qu di , th ar li by ed in th gr re - se of th da , an th li ar ex by th
z qu pa z , an so on
in ex cl
we us th vo - pe as ou ex cl .
fo ea ra tr , we tr a vo - pe on th la - be se , an ap it to th un se .
we th us th
12 / 12 ha la fo do va , an pe ha en mi wi ( 12 ) .
we us ! +j
we ev on th ar bu di bi pr of cl od di vs .
ev di th is , we gr 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 an 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 in tw cl .
th ar 12 im pe di .
we us se or po ke in th vo - pe , an tr fo 12 ep .
fi 12 sh th re .
th ac of th vo - pe on un da , av ov tr , is ma vp in th pl .
in , we ru th an cm .
ne we co th wi th vo - pe , an th re is ma th .
fi , we pe cl ma no - ma on th co re an ge cm .
th co re in hi ac th ei me al , su th is co in us
, re on a to da ar sh in fi 12
th up gr is sl ti th th lo gr , an th ar co by a fe da po .
th ar tw la ex , ma wi la sy .
we le th op le sc fo th da by mi en on un da .
le th we ma to de th ef of es th tw di , so th is on a si pa ( ap th mi at 12 as ( + .
un su co -
di , th re of ha en mi ar us un , an fo th da th ti gr in th sp on as sh in fi 12 ( a ) .
wi sm , th nu mi at 12 gr di - pe as th sm fa gr , as sh in fi
to si th pr , we rs ti th le sc in
to le .
as no ea , wi sm , th en
fi ef of pa mi .
( a ) if un , as pe po .
( b ) re at op
on ha en mi - , an th al
, sm wi ( c ) sm he to re th en mi .
wh we se
an we re a mi en of 12 bi .
le sc is sh in fi 12 ( b ) , wh is ab to di - ti th st of th tw gr .
fo ea di , pa le is mo dr .
wi th sa sm of
st at 12 , is le it me th th le al -
on bo th la an un da .
ha en mi un th pa gi th sa cl - si as sh in fi 12 ( b ) .
, th mi en is 12 .
ha en mi un th if we al a se ( ( ke gr to in ( we us
fo co ) wh ( go ha id th - di as ir , ba ne we le ( s fo al 12 di on th 12 vs .
12 di sh th sa ( f+ as in pr ex - pe .
th we co th de of ( in .
th le ( s sh in th ri pl of fi 12 ra fr 12 ( bl ) to 12 ( wh ) .
a sm ( k ( wh ) .
we ca di th sh of a bl 12 an
di se , an pe gr de to mi - im th en .
th re is sh in ta 12
as en de , th ac of cm an th bo
di da .
fo th pr we mi th en wi cm pr ( 12 ) .
we ra pi a sp of 12 la an 12 un ex , an st wi al
( bl ) in th th we is mo se to va - ti in th di , wh th op is tr fo la
a wh 12 in th gu th is , th le pa
12 % 12 12 % 12
ta of cm an ac be an af le s on th 12 .
12 .
fi s fo 12 .
12 .
fr le to ri : av 12 , av 12 , in s , le s .
ex va wi cl 12 wh su va wi cl 12
we ha ob th wi th de pa , cl 12 ha mu le va th cl 12 th , th le pa ar , in ef , co fo th re ti of th tw cl in
we ha in an ap to se - su le - in ba on a ga ra el mo de wi re to a we gr re la an un - be da .
pr ex re ha be pr - se fo te an di cl , de th th fr ha th po to ef ex th st of un da to im cl ac - ra .
th un ra el gi a co pr - bi se to ou ap , bu th pa ha co - ce on th us of on th me of th el , wh is ch in te of ha fu an sp gr th .
th fu pr fr is cl re to ga pr cl , an th co - ti su pr wa of in cl pr an le hy in pa , it is na to ap ev ma or th ge er - ro bo th ha be st fo ga pr ( se , 12 ) .
ou wo in th di wi be re in a fu pu .
