we pre a fra for lea in hid mar mod wit dis sta rep .
wit thi fra , we der a lea alg bas on the exp ( max ( em ) pro for max lik est .
ana - ogo to the sta bau - wel upd rul , the m - ste of our alg is exa and can be sol ana .
how , due to the com nat of the hid sta rep , the exa e - ste is int .
a sim and tra mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app is der .
emp res on a set of pro sug tha bot the mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app and gib sam are via alt to the com - tio exp exa alg .
cop c ( cid : 123 ) mas ins of tec ,
thi rep des res don at the cen for bio and com lea and the art ( cid : 123 ) cia int lab of the mas ins of tec .
sup for the cen is pro in par by a gra fro the nat sci fou und con asc ( .
thi pro was sup in par by a gra fro the mcd - pew fou , by a gra fro atr hum inf pro res lab , by a gra fro sie cor , and by gra n - - - fro the o ( cid : 123 ) ce of nav res .
a pro of fun int to mac lea is tim ser mod .
due to the sim - pli and e ( cid : 123 ) cie of its par est alg , the hid mar mod ( hmm ) has eme as one of the bas sta too for mod dis tim ser , ( cid : 123 ) ndi wid app in the are of spe rec ( rab and jua , ) and com mol - ula bio ( bal et al . , ) .
an hmm is ess a mix mod , enc inf abo the his of a tim ser in the val of a sin mul var ( the hid sta ) .
thi mul ass all an e ( cid : 123 ) cie par est alg to be der ( the bau - wel alg ) .
how , it als sev lim the rep cap of hmm .
for exa , to rep bit of inf abo the his of a tim seq , an hmm wou nee dis sta .
on the oth han an hmm wit a dis sta rep - tio cou ach the sam tas wit bin uni ( wil and hin , ) .
thi pap add the pro of der e ( cid : 123 ) cie lea alg for hid mar mod wit dis sta rep .
the nee for dis sta rep in hmm can be mot in two way .
fir , suc rep all the sta spa to be dec int fea tha nat dec the dyn of a sin pro gen the tim ser .
sec , dis sta rep sim the tas of mod tim ser gen by the int of mul ind pro .
for exa , a spe sig gen by the sup of mul sim spe can be pot mod wit suc an arc .
wil and hin ( ) ( cid : 123 ) rst for the pro of lea in hmm wit dis sta rep and pro a sol bas on det bol lea .
the ap - pro pre in thi pap is sim to wil and hin in tha it is als bas on a sta mec for of hid mar mod .
how , our lea alg is qui di ( cid : 123 ) ere in tha it mak use of the spe str of hmm wit dis sta rep - res , res in a mor e ( cid : 123 ) cie lea pro .
ant the res in sec , thi lea alg bot obv the nee for the two - pha pro of bol mac , and has an exa m - ste .
a di ( cid : 123 ) ere app com fro sau and jor ( ) , who der a set of rul for com the gra req for lea in hmm wit dis sta spa .
how , the met can onl be app to a lim cla of arc .
fac hid mar mod
hid mar mod are a gen of mix mod .
at any tim ste , the pro den ove the obs de ( cid : 123 ) ned by an hmm is a mix of the den de ( cid : 123 ) ned by eac sta in the und mar mod .
tem dep are int by spe tha the pri pro of the sta at tim t dep on the sta at tim t ( cid : 123 ) thr a tra mat , p ( fig a ) .
ano gen of mix mod , the coo vec qua ( cvq hin and zem , ) , pro a nat for for dis sta rep in hmm .
whe in sim mix mod eac dat poi mus be acc for by a sin mix com , in cvq eac dat poi is acc for by the com of con fro man mix com , one fro eac sep vec qua .
the tot pro den mod by a cvq is als a mix mod how thi mix den is ass to fac int a pro of den , eac den ass wit one of the vec qua .
thu , the cvq is a mix
mod wit dis rep for the mix com .
fac hid mar mod com the sta tra str of hmm wit the dis - tri rep of cvq ( fig b ) .
eac of the d und mar mod has a dis sta s i at tim t and tra pro mat pi .
as in the cvq , the sta are mu - tua exc wit eac vec qua and we ass rea - val out .
the seq of obs out vec is gen fro a nor dis wit mea giv by the wei com of the sta of the und mar mod :
( cid : 123 ) n d
i; c ! ;
whe c is a com cov mat .
the k - val sta si are rep as dis col vec wit a in one pos and eve els the mea of the obs is the a com of col fro eac of the wi mat .
fig .
a ) hid mar mod .
b ) fac hid mar mod .
we cap the abo pro mod by de ( cid : 123 ) nin the ene of a seq of t sta and
t= , whi we abb to fs; yg , as :
h ( fs; yg ) =
il ) suc tha pk
whe ( ai ) jl = log p ( st for the ini sta , s pro mod is de ( cid : 123 ) ned fro thi ene by the bol dis
, are int by set the sec ter in ( ) to ( cid : 123 ) pd
j= e ( ai ) jl = , and den mat tra .
pri
i log ( cid : 123 ) i
p ( fs; yg ) =
we ref to hmm wit dis sta as fac hmm as the fea of the dis sta fac the
tot sta rep .
not tha lik in the cvq ( gha , ) , the unc par fun
z = z dfy
eva to a con , ind of the par .
thi can be sho by ( cid : 123 ) rst int the gau var , rem all dep on fyg , and the sum ove the sta usi the con on e ( ai ) jl .
the em alg for fac hmm
as in hmm , the par of a fac hmm can be est via the em ( bau - wel ) alg .
thi pro ite bet ass the cur par to com pro - bil ove the hid sta ( e - ste ) , and usi the pro to max the exp log lik of the par ( m - ste ) .
usi the lik ( ) , the exp log lik of the par is
j ( cid : 123 ) ) = h ( cid : 123 ) h ( fs; yg ) ( cid : 123 ) log z ic;
whe ( cid : 123 ) = fwi pi; c g i= den the cur par , and h ( cid : 123 ) ic den exp giv the cla obs seq and ( cid : 123 ) .
giv the obs seq , the onl ran var are the hid sta .
exp equ ( ) and lim the exp to the ran var we ( cid : 123 ) nd tha the sta tha nee to be com for the e - ste are hs i ic , hs not tha in sta hmm not ( rab and jua , ) , hs i ic cor to ( cid : 123 ) t and j ic has no ana whe the is onl a sin und mar mod .
the m - ste use the exp to max q wit res to the par .
the con par fun all us to dro the sec ter in ( ) .
the , unl the bol mac , the exp log lik doe not dep on sta col in an unc pha of lea , res in muc fas lea tha the tra bol mac ( nea , ) .
ic cor to ( cid : 123 ) t , whe hs
j ic , and hs
set the der of q wit res to the out wei to zer , we obt a lin sys of equ for w :
w new =
sum ove a dat set of n seq , and y is the moo - pen pse - inv .
to est
whe s and w are the vec and mat of con si and wi , res , pn den the log tra pro we sol @q= ( ai ) jl = sub to the con pj e ( ai ) jl = ,
the cov mat can be sim est :
il ic ! :
jl = log pn;
c new = xn;
the m - ste equ can the be sol ana fur , for a sin und mar cha , the red to the tra bau - wel re - est equ .
unf , as in the sim cvq , the exa e - ste for fac hmm is com int .
for exa , the exp of the j th uni in vec i at tim ste t , giv fyg , is :
ij ic = p ( st
ij = jfy ( cid : 123 ) )
j= ; : : : ;st
ij = ; : : : ; st
d;j jfy ( cid : 123 ) )
alt the mar pro can be use to obt a for - bac ( lik fac of thi exp acr tim ste , the sum ove all pos con ( cid : 123 ) gur of the oth hid uni wit eac tim ste is una .
for a dat set of n seq of len t , the ful e - ste cal thr the for - bac pro has tim com o ( n t kd ) .
alt mor car boo can red the com to o ( n t dkd ) , the exp tim can be avo .
thi int of the exa e - ste is due inh to the coo nat of the mod set of one vec onl det the mea of the obs if all the oth vec are ( cid : 123 ) xed .
rat tha sum ove all pos hid sta pat to com the exa exp , a nat app is to app the thr a mon car met suc as gib sam .
the pro sta wit a cla obs seq fyg and a ran set of the hid j g .
at eac tim ste , eac sta vec is upd sto acc to its pro dis con on the set of all the oth sta vec : s : j = i ( cid : 123 ) p ( s i jfy fs i or ( cid : 123 ) = tg; ( cid : 123 ) ) : the con dis are str to com and a ful pas of gib sam req o ( n t kd ) ope .
the ( cid : 123 ) rst and sec - ord sta nee to est hs ijs vis and the pro est dur thi sam pro .
ic are col usi the st
j ic and hs
i ic , hs
mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app
a di ( cid : 123 ) ere app to com the exp in an int sys is giv by mea ( cid : 123 ) eld the .
a mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app for fac hmm can be obt by de ( cid : 123 ) nin the ene
h ( fs; yg ) =
i log m
whi res in a com fac app to pro den ( ) :
~ p ( fs; yg ) / yt
in thi app , the obs are ind gau dis wit mea ( cid : 123 ) eac hid sta vec is mul dis wit mea m i .
thi app is mad as tig as pos by cho the mea ( cid : 123 ) eld par ( cid : 123 ) i tha min the kul - lie
t and m
kl ( ~ p kp ) ( cid : 123 ) hlo p i ~ p ( cid : 123 ) hlo ~ p i ~ p
whe h ( cid : 123 ) i ~ p den exp ove the mea ( cid : 123 ) eld dis ( ) .
wit the obs cla , t .
min kl ( ~ p kp ) wit res to the mea ( cid : 123 ) eld
t can be set equ to the obs y
par for the sta res in a ( cid : 123 ) xed - poi equ whi can be ite unt con :
i c ( cid : 123 ) hy
ti + w
i c ( cid : 123 ) wim
i c ( cid : 123 ) wig ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) pi wim
i and ( cid : 123 ) f ( cid : 123 ) g is the sof exp , nor ove eac hid sta vec .
the ( cid : 123 ) rst ter is the pro of the err in the obs ont the wei of sta vec i|t mor a hid uni can red thi err , the lar its mea ( cid : 123 ) eld par .
the nex thr ter ari fro the fac tha hs ij .
the las two ter int dep for and bac in tim .
eac sta vec is asy upd usi ( ) , at a tim cos of o ( n t kd ) per ite .
con is dia by mon the kl div in the mea ( cid : 123 ) eld dis bet suc tim ste in pra con is ver rap ( abo to ite of ( ) ) .
ij i ~ p is equ to mij and not m
we com thr em alg for lea in fac hmm gib sam , mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app , and the exa ( exp ) e ste the bas of per and spe on ran gen pro .
pro wer gen fro a fac hmm str , the par of whi wer sam fro a uni ( ; ) dis , and app nor to sat the sum - to - one con of the tra mat and pri .
als inc in the com was a tra hmm wit as man sta ( kd ) as the fac hmm .
tab sum the res .
eve for mod lar sta spa ( d ( cid : 123 ) and k ( cid : 123 ) ) the sta hmm wit kd sta su ( cid : 123 ) ers fro sev ove ( cid : 123 ) tti .
fur , bot the sta hmm and the exa e - ste fac hmm are ext slo on the lar pro .
the gib sam and mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app o ( cid : 123 ) er rou com per at a gre inc
the bas con of thi pap is a lea alg for hid mar mod wit dis - tri sta rep .
the sta bau - wel pro is int for suc arc - tec as the siz of the sta spa gen fro the cro pro of d k - val fea is o ( kd ) , and the tim com of bau - wel is qua in thi siz .
mor imp , unl spe con are app to thi cro - pro hmm arc , the num of par als gro as o ( kd ) , whi can res in sev ove ( cid : 123 ) tti .
the arc for fac hmm pre in thi pap did not inc any cou bet the und mar cha .
it is pos to ext the alg pre to arc whi inc suc cou .
how , the cou mus be int wit cau as the may res eit in an exp gro in par or in a los of the con par fun
the lea alg der in thi pap ass rea - val obs .
the alg can als be der for hmm wit dis obs , an arc clo rel to sig bel net ( nea , ) .
how , the non ind by dis obs mak bot the e - ste and m - ste of the alg mor di ( cid : 123 ) cul .
tab : com of fac hmm on fou pro of var siz
tab .
dat was gen fro a fac hmm wit d und mar mod of k sta eac .
the tra set was seq of len whe the obs was a - dim vec the tes set was suc seq .
hmm ind a hid mar mod wit kd sta the oth alg are fac hmm wit d und k - sta mod .
gib sam use sam of eac sta .
the alg wer run unt con , as mon by rel cha in the lik , or a max of cyc .
the # col ind num of run .
the tra and tes col sho the log lik ( cid : 123 ) one sta dev on the two dat set .
the las col ind app tim per cyc on a sil gra r pro run mat .
in con , we hav pre gib sam and mea ( cid : 123 ) eld lea alg for fac hid mar mod .
suc mod inc the tim ser mod cap of hid mar mod and the adv of dis rep for the sta spa .
fut wor wil con on a mor e ( cid : 123 ) cie mea ( cid : 123 ) eld app in whi the for - bac alg - rit is use to com the e - ste exa wit eac mar cha , and mea ( cid : 123 ) eld the is use to han int bet cha ( sau and jor , ) .
