an app to sem - sup lea is pro - pos tha is bas on a gau ran eld mod .
lab and unl dat are rep - res as ver in a wei gra , wit edg wei enc the sim bet in - sta .
the lea pro is the for in ter of a gau ran eld on thi gra , whe the mea of the eld is cha in ter of har fun , and is efc obt usi mat met or bel pro - gat .
the res lea alg hav int con wit ran wal , ele - tri net , and spe gra the .
we dis - cus met to inc cla pri and the pre of cla obt by sup lea .
we als pro a met of par lea by ent min , and sho the alg abi to per fea sel .
pro exp res are pre for syn dat , dig cla , and tex cla -
in man tra app to mac lea , a tar - get fun is est usi lab dat , whi can be tho of as exa giv by a tea to a stu .
lab exa are oft , how , ver tim con - ing and exp to obt , as the req the eff of hum ann , who mus oft be qui ski .
for in - sta , obt a sin lab exa for pro sha cla , whi is one of the gra cha of bio - log and com sci , req mon of ex - pen ana by exp cry .
the pro of eff com unl dat wit lab dat is the of cen imp in mac lea .
the sem - sup lea pro has att an in - cre amo of int rec , and sev nov ap - pro hav bee pro we ref to ( see , 123 ) for an ove .
amo the met is a pro fam - ily of tec tha exp the man str of the dat suc met are gen bas upo an ass tha sim unl exa sho be giv the sam cla .
in thi pap we int a new app to sem - sup lea tha is bas on a ran eld mod den on a wei gra ove the unl and lab dat , whe the wei are giv in ter of a sim - ila fun bet ins .
unl oth rec wor bas on ene min and ran eld in mac lea ( blu & cha , 123 ) and ima pro ( boy et al . , 123 ) , we ado gau eld ove a con sta spa rat tha ran eld ove the dis lab set .
thi re - lax to a con rat tha dis sam spa res in man att pro .
in par , the mos pro con of the eld is uni , is cha - ize in ter of har fun , and has a clo for sol tha can be com usi mat met or loo bel pro ( wei et al . , 123 ) .
in con , for mul - lab dis ran eld , com the low - est ene con is typ np - har , and app - mat alg or oth heu mus be use ( boy et al . , 123 ) .
the res cla alg for gau eld can be vie as a for of nea nei - bor app , whe the nea lab exa are com - put in ter of a ran wal on the gra .
the lea met int her hav int con wit ran wal , ele net , and spe gra the - ory , in par hea ker and nor cut .
in our bas app the sol is sol bas on the str of the dat man , whi is der fro dat fea .
in pra , how , thi der man str - tur may be ins for acc cla
pro of the twe int con on mac lea ( icm - 123 ) , was dc , 123
to tak val -
is the com
our str is to rst com a rea - val fun
, we for is an inv is the par fun , whi nor ove
it is not dif to sho tha the min ene fun is har nam , it sat
wei are pos , of cou , and may be mor app - is dis or sym .
for our pur the ful spe the dat man str ( see
int , we wan unl poi tha are nea in the gra to hav sim lab .
thi mot the cho of the qua ene fun
on1 wit cer nic pro , and to the ass lab bas on_ .
we con k on the lab dat ! e . f@ .
to ass a pro dis on fun the gau eld tem par , and all fun con to_ on the lab dat .
, and is equ to_ ! + on unl dat poi on the lab dat poi lap , giv in mat for as is the dia mat wit ent ) km is the wei mat .
the har pro mea tha the val of_ unl dat poi is the ave of_ _ wit res to the gra .
exp sli dif , pri of har fun ( doy & sne , 123 ) , _ uni and is eit a con or it sat mat ope , we spl the wei mat ) int 123 blo aft the th row and col :
den the val on the un - lab dat poi , the har sol is giv by
to com the har sol exp in ter of
whi is con wit our pri not of smo of
bec of the max
fig ran eld use in thi wor are con on lab and unl exa .
we for a gra wit wei edg bet ins ( in thi cas sca dig ) , wit lab dat ite app as spe bou , and unl poi as int .
we con gau ran eld on thi gra .
sho how the ext evi of cla pri can hel cla - cat in sec 123
alt , we may com ext - nal cla usi ver wei or ass cos , as des in sec 123
enc exp re - sul for syn dat , dig cla , and tex cla - sic tas are pre in sec 123
one dif wit the ran eld app is tha the rig cho of gra is oft not ent cle , and it may be des to lea it fro dat .
in sec 123 we pro a met for lea the wei by ent min , and sho the alg abi to per fea sel to bet cha the dat man .
bas fra
we sup the are lab poi
and unl poi ; typ let " ! #%$ be the tot num of dat poi .
to be - gin , we ass the lab are bin : ( ' * ) , + - . / .
con a con gra ! 123 wit nod ing to the dat poi , wit nod " ! 123 ) 123 : / cor - spo to the lab poi wit lab
nod ! = ) >$ ? . 123 / cor to the unl - bel poi .
our tas is to ass lab to nod ass an cbd sym wei mat of the gra is giv .
for exa , whe ' gfi
is the ) - th com of ins
as a vec
are len sca hyp for eac dim .
thu , nea poi in euc spa are ass lar edg wei
on the edg
wei mat can be
fig of har ene min on two syn dat .
lar sym ind lab dat , oth poi are unl .
in thi pap we foc on the abo har fun as a bas for sem - sup cla .
how , we em - pha tha the gau ran eld mod fro whi thi fun is der pro the lea fra wit a con pro sem .
in the fol , we ref to the pro des abo as har ene min , to und the har - mon pro ( 123 ) as wel as the obj fun bei min .
fig 123 dem the use of har en - erg min on two syn dat .
the lef gur
sho tha the dat has thr ban , wit ! ,
gfg ; the rig gur sho two spi , wit .
, and ( .
her we see har
ene min cle fol the str of dat , whi obv met suc as knn wou fai to do so .
int and con
as out bri in thi sec , the bas fra pre - sen in the pre sec can be vie in sev fun - dam dif way , and the dif vie pro a ric and com set of tec for rea - son abo thi app to the sem - sup lea
ran wal and ele net
is the pro tha
lab 123
her the lab dat is vie as an abs bou for the ran wal .
ima a par wal alo the gra fro an unl nod , it mov to a nod wit pro - knm aft one ste .
the wal con unt the par - tic hit a lab nod .
the the par , sta fro nod , hit a lab nod wit enc .
fir , we x the val of_ on the lab poi ,
thi vie of the har sol ind tha it is clo rel to the ran wal app of szu and jaa ( 123 ) , how the are two maj dif -
and sec , our sol is an equ sta , exp in ter of a hit tim , whi in ( szu & jaa ,
gra ker
we wil ret to thi poi whe dis hea ker .
is the vol in the res ele net on eac of
the sol to the hea equ on the gra wit ini
be cho usi an aux tec , for exa cro -
and laf ( 123 ) pro thi as an app ker for mac lea wit cat dat .
whe use in a ker met suc as a sup vec mac , the ker
an ele net int is giv in ( doy & to be res wit to a pos
har pro her fol fro kir and ohm law , and the max pri the sho tha thi is pre the sam sol obt in ( 123 ) .
123 ) the wal cru dep on the tim par .
sne , 123 ) .
ima the edg of1 .
we con nod lab .
to gro .
the vol sou , and poi lab the unl nod .
fur min the ene for the giv dis of the ele net the sol can be vie fro the vie of spe - tra gra the .
the hea ker wit tim par on the gra
is den as con bei a poi sou atb at tim ! + .
kon
i ) can be vie as a sol to the hea equ wit ini hea sou on the lab dat .
the tim par mus , how , den of , the dif tim .
let , be the low rig lap res to the unl nod in1 des hea dif on the unl sub wit ! ? , whi can be exp in ter of the int ove tim of the hea ker
a ker cla wit the ker lap . ) fro ( 123 ) we als see tha the spe of is the spe of / , whe ) %$ > .
thi ind
exp ( 123 ) sho tha thi app can be vie as and a spe for of ker mac .
( see als ( chu & yau , 123 ) , whe a nor lap is use ins of the com
a con to the wor of cha et al .
( 123 ) , who ma - nip the eig of the lap to cre var
dir bou con on the lab nod .
the is the inv ope of the res
our alg use a dif app whi is ind -
the har sol ( 123 ) can the be wri as
the hea ker on thi sub :
, it is the
ker .
a rel app is giv by bel and niy
spe clu and gra min
the nor cut app of shi and mal ( 123 ) has as its obj fun the min of the ral
sma eig of the gen eig pro .
yu and shi ( 123 ) add a gro bia to the nor cut to spe whi poi sho be in the sam gro .
sin lab dat can be enc int suc pai gro con , thi tec can be app to sem - sup lea as wel .
is clo to blo dia , it can be sho tha dat poi are tig clu in the eig spa ( ng et al . , 123 mei & shi , 123 ) , lea to var spe clu alg -
( 123 ) , who pro to reg fun on1 by sel - ing the top nor eig of to the sma eig , thu obt the bes t to_ in the lea squ sen .
we rem tha our ts the lab dat exa , whi the ord app may sub to the con .
the sol is the sec by the rst few eig of for thi wor is als a wei gra min - cut , whe neg lab dat is con ( wit lar wei ) to a spe sou nod , and pos lab dat is con to a spe sin nod .
a min - - cut , whi is not nec uni , min the and cor to a fun . 123 . f / ; the $ . / , but the eld is pin on ove the lab spa )
per the mos int and sub con to the met we pro her is the gra min app pro by blu and cha ( 123 ) .
the sta poi , but the sem - sup lea pro is cas as one of ndi a
the lab ent .
bec of thi con , app - tio met bas on rap mix mar cha tha app to the fer isi mod unf can - not be use .
mor , mul - lab ext are gen np - har in thi fra .
in con , the har so - lut can be com efc usi mat met , eve in the mul - lab cas , and inf for the gau ran eld can be efc and acc car out usi loo bel pro ( wei et al . , 123 ) .
sol can be obt usi lin pro .
the cor ran eld mod is a tra eld
inc cla pri kno
to lab , the obv dec rul is to
ten to pro sev unb cla .
we cal thi rul the har thr ( abb thr bel ) .
in ter of the ran wal int -
mor lik to rea a pos lab poi bef a neg - ati lab poi .
thi dec rul wor wel whe the cla are wel sep .
how in rea dat ,
, whi spe the dat man , is oft poo est in pra and doe not ree the cla goa .
in oth wor , we sho not ful tru the gra str .
the cla pri are a val pie of com inf
to go fro ass lab 123 to nod z , and lab 123 oth - z , the sta atb , the ran wal is cla are oft not ide sep , and usi the pro ste fro the fac tha ass the des pro for cla 123 and 123 are
, res , whe the val are eit giv the mas of cla 123 to be b , and the mas of cla 123 b .
cla mas nor sca the mas so tha an unl poi
by an ora or est fro lab dat .
we ado a sim pro cal cla mas nor ( cmn ) to adj the cla dis to mat the pri
thi met ext nat to the gen mul - lab
is cla as cla 123
inc ext cla
oft we hav an ext cla at han , whi is con - str on lab dat alo .
in thi sec we sug how thi can be com wit har ene min -
the ori gra , we att a don nod whi is a la -
ass the ext cla pro lab % on the unl dat can be 123 / 123 or sof lab in wit har ene min by a sim - ple mod of the gra .
for eac unl nod k , let the tra pro fro bel nod wit val b to its don be , and dis all oth tra fro
we the per har ene min on thi aug gra .
thu , the ext cla in - tro ass cos to the ene fun , whi pla the rol of ver pot in the ran eld .
is not dif to sho tha the har sol on the aug gra is , in the ran wal vie ,
we not tha thr the pap we hav ass the lab dat to be noi fre , and so cla the val
mak sen .
if the is rea to dou thi ass , it wou be rea to att don to lab nod as wel , and to mov the lab to the new nod .
lea the wei mat
sho to be use as a fea sel mec whi bet ali the gra str wit the dat .
the usu par lea cri is to max the lik of lab dat .
how , the lik cri -
and xed .
in thi sec , we inv lea wei fun of the for giv by equ ( 123 ) .
we wil lea
is the ent of the eld at the ind unl dat rel on the max pri of har fun
lab dat are xed dur tra , and mor lik - hoo doe mak sen for the unl dat bec we do not hav a gen mod .
we pro ins to use ave lab ent as a heu cri for par lea .
the ave lab ent
pre we ass tha the wei mat w s fro bot lab and unl dat thi wil be rio is not app in thi cas bec the val for of the eld
poi .
her we use the ran wal int of_ for $ .
sma whi gua tha ent imp tha the int tha a goo / ) sho res in a con lab .
we are con on the lab dat of the sma and len its wel to tun the ( min at 123 as ( + .
as the len sca app tha is clo to som lab poi ; s lab , put ( 123 ) lab wit
zer , the tai of the wei fun ( 123 ) is inc sen - sit to the dis .
in the end , the lab pre for an unl exa is dom by its nea nei lab , whi res in the fol equ lab pro : ( 123 ) sta fro the lab dat set , nd the
in the lab set and re - pea .
sin the are har lab , the ent is zer .
thi sol is des onl whe the cla are ext wel sep , and can be exp to be inf oth -
the are of cou man arb lab of the dat tha hav low ent , whi mig sug tha thi cri wil not wor .
how , it is imp to poi out tha
arb low ent lab are inc wit thi con .
in fac , we nd tha the spa of low ent lab ach by har ene min is
is clo to 123 or 123 thi cap ( equ , a goo set of hy -
the is a com , how , whi is tha
is the uni mat
the gra is com as
thi com can be avo by smo the tra - sit mat .
ins by ana of the pag alg -
rit in ( ng et al . , 123 ) , we rep wit the smo we use gra des to nd the hyp (
w can be rea off the vec
w , whi is giv by whe the val
w are sub - mat of
usi the fac tha )
sin the ori tra mat tai by nor the wei mat
in the abo der we use as lab pro di - rec tha is , k cla b .
if we inc -
and we use thi pro in pla of_
rat cla pri inf , or com har ene min wit oth cla , it mak sen to min - imi ent on the com pro .
for ins , if we inc a cla pri usi cmn , the pro is giv by
in ( 123 ) .
the der of the gra des rul is a str ext of the abo ana .
, we hav tha
exp res
we rst eva har ene min on a han - wri dig dat , ori fro the ced buf bin dig dat ( hul , 123 ) .
the dig wer pre - pro to red the siz of eac ima dow to a gri by dow - sam and gau smo - ing , wit pix val ran fro 123 to 123 ( le cun et al . , 123 ) .
eac ima is thu rep by a 123 - dim vec .
we com the wei mat ( 123 ) wit tes , we per
for eac lab set siz
lab set siz
cmn + vp thr + vp
lab set siz
lab set siz
fig ene min on dig 123 .
123 ( lef ) and on all 123 dig ( mid ) and com vot - per wit har ene min on odd vs .
eve dig ( rig )
lab set siz
lab set siz
lab set siz
fig ene min on pc vs .
mac ( lef ) , bas vs .
hoc ( mid ) , and ms - win vs .
mac ( rig )
123 tri .
in eac tri we ran sam lab dat fro the ent dat , and use the res of the ima as unl dat .
if any cla is abs fro the sam la - bel set , we red the sam .
for met tha inc - fro the lab set wit
rat cla pri , we est
lap ( add one ) smo .
we con the bin pro of cla dig 123 vs .
123 , wit 123 ima in eac cla .
we rep ave - age acc of the fol met on unl dat : thr , cmn , 123 , and a rad bas fun cla
rbf and 123 are use sim as bas .
the res are sho in fig 123
cle thr per poo , bec
ity of exa are cla as dig 123
thi sho the ina of the wei fun ( 123 ) bas on pix - wis
( rbf ) whi cla to cla 123 iff the val of_ are gen clo to 123 , so the maj - euc dis .
how the rel ran of_
, so tha the cla pro ts the pri met is inf to cmn due to the err in est
are use , and whe cou wit cla pri inf sig imp acc is obt .
the gre imp is ach by the sim met cmn .
we cou als hav adj the dec thr on thr
and it is not sho in the plo .
the sam obs are als tru for the exp we per on sev oth bin dig cla pro .
we als con the 123 - way pro of cla dig 123 thr 123
we rep the res on a dat wit in - ten unb cla siz , wit 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 exa per cla , res - tiv ( not tha the res on a bal dat are sim - ila ) .
we rep the ave acc of thr , cmn , rbf , and 123 .
the met can han mul - way cla - tio dir , or wit sli mod in a one - aga - all fas .
as the res in fig 123 sho , cmn aga im - pro per by inc cla pri .
nex we rep the res of doc cat ex - per usi the 123 new dat .
we pic thr bin pro : pc ( num of doc : 123 ) vs .
mac ( 123 ) , ms - win ( 123 ) vs .
mac , and bas - bal ( 123 ) vs .
hoc ( 123 ) .
eac doc is min pro int a tf . idf vec , wit app hea re - mov , fre cut , ste , or a sto lis
123 nea nei or if bor , as mea by cos sim .
we use the fol - ing wei fun on the edg :
is amo s 123 nea nei -
are con by an edg if
we use one - nea nei and the vot per al - gor ( fre & sch , 123 ) ( 123 epo wit a lin -
ear ker ) as bas res wit sup vec ma - chi are com .
the res are sho in fig 123
as bef , eac poi is the ave of 123 ran tri - als .
for thi dat , har ene min per muc bet tha the bas .
the imp fro the cla pri , how , is les sig .
an exp for why thi app to sem - sup lea is so eff - tiv on the new dat may lie in the com use of
quo wit a top thr : doc quo par of
alt doc far apa in the thr may be qui dif , the are lin by edg in the gra rep - sen of the dat , and the lin are exp by the
z quo par z , and so on
inc ext cla
we use the vot - per as our ext cla .
for eac ran tri , we tra a vot - per on the la - bel set , and app it to the unl set .
we the use the
123 / 123 har lab for don val , and per har ene min wit ( 123 ) .
we use ! +j
we eva on the art but dif bin pro of cla odd dig vs .
eve dig tha is , we gro 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 int two cla .
the are 123 ima per dig .
we use sec ord pol ker in the vot - per , and tra for 123 epo .
fig 123 sho the res .
the acc of the vot - per on unl dat , ave ove tri , is mar vp in the plo .
ind , we run thr and cmn .
nex we com thr wit the vot - per , and the res is mar thr .
fin , we per cla mas nor - mal on the com res and get cmn .
the com res in hig acc tha eit met alo , sug the is com inf use
, res on a toy dat are sho in fig 123
the upp gri is sli tig tha the low gri , and the are con by a few dat poi .
the are two lab exa , mar wit lar sym .
we lea the opt len sca for thi dat by min ent on unl dat .
lea the wei mat to dem the eff of est the two dim , so the is onl a sin par ( app the min at 123 as ( + .
und suc con -
dit , the res of har ene min are usu und , and for thi dat the tig gri inv the spa one as sho in fig 123 ( a ) .
wit smo , the nui min at 123 gra dis - pea as the smo fac gro , as sho in fig
to sim the pro , we rst tie the len sca in
to lea .
as not ear , wit smo , the ent
fig eff of par miz .
( a ) if uns , as per poo .
( b ) res at opt
on har ene min - , and the alg
, smo wit ( c ) smo hel to rem the ent min .
whe we set
and we rea a min ent of 123 bit .
len sca is sho in fig 123 ( b ) , whi is abl to dis - tin the str of the two gri .
for eac dim , par lea is mor dra .
wit the sam smo of
sta at 123 , is leg it mea tha the lea al -
on bot the lab and unl dat .
har ene min und the par giv the sam cla - sic as sho in fig 123 ( b ) .
, the min ent is 123 .
har ene min und thi if we all a sep ( ( kee gro tow inn ( we use
for com ) whi ( gor has ide the - dir as irr , bas nex we lea ( s for all 123 dim on the 123 vs .
123 dim sha the sam ( f+ as in pre ex - per .
the we com the der of ( inc .
the lea ( s sho in the rig plo of fig 123 ran fro 123 ( bla ) to 123 ( whi ) .
a sma ( k ( whi ) .
we can dis the sha of a bla 123 and
dim sep , and per gra des to min - imi the ent .
the res is sho in tab 123
as ent dec , the acc of cmn and thr bot
dig dat .
for thi pro we min the ent wit cmn pro ( 123 ) .
we ran pic a spl of 123 lab and 123 unl exa , and sta wit all
( bla ) ind tha the wei is mor sen to var - tio in tha dim , whi the opp is tru for lar
a whi 123 in thi gur tha is , the lea par
123 % 123 123 % 123
tab of cmn and acc bef and aft lea s on the 123 .
123 .
fig s for 123 .
123 .
fro lef to rig : ave 123 , ave 123 , ini s , lea s .
exa var wit cla 123 whi sup var wit cla 123
we hav obs tha wit the def par , cla 123 has muc les var tha cla 123 thu , the lea par are , in eff , com for the rel tig of the two cla in
we hav int an app to sem - sup lea - ing bas on a gau ran eld mod den wit res to a wei gra rep lab and unl - bel dat .
pro exp res hav bee pre - sen for tex and dig cla , dem tha the fra has the pot to eff exp the str of unl dat to imp cla acc - rac .
the und ran eld giv a coh pro - bil sem to our app , but thi pap has con - cen on the use of onl the mea of the eld , whi is cha in ter of har fun and spe gra the .
the ful pro fra is clo rel to gau pro cla , and thi con - tio sug pri way of inc cla pri and lea hyp in par , it is nat to app evi max or the gen er - ror bou tha hav bee stu for gau pro ( see , 123 ) .
our wor in thi dir wil be rep in a fut pub .
