red by gle ets , we der the lem of ing ems rom a ept or ter , ven a ery ing of a few ems rom hat ter .
we ate his as a ian nce lem and de - ibe a ery ple thm for ing it .
our thm ses a del - sed ept of a ter and nks ems ing a ore ich tes the nal ity hat ach tem ngs to a ter ing the ery ems .
for ial ily els ith ate ors his nal ity is a ple ion of ent ics .
we cus on rse ary ata and how hat our ore can be ted ex - tly ing a gle rse rix ion , ing it ble to ply our thm to ery rge ets .
we ate our thm on ree ets : ing ies rom vie , ing ons of hor ets rom the ips set , and ing ons of ets of rds ing in the ier dia .
we are to gle ets and how hat ian ets ves ery ble set ons .
hat do sus and win ave in mon ? her han ing ted ith two ent ews on the gin of man , hey lso ave ges at dge ver - ity med ter hem .
if ese two mes are red as a ery nto gle ets ( ttp : / / abs . gle . com / ets ) it rns a ist of her ges at dge .
gle ets is a bly ful ool ich tes a ery cal and est - ing lem in ine ing and ion val . 123 der a rse of ems d .
ing on the ion , the set d may ist of web ges , ies , ple , rds , ins , ges , or any her ect we may ish to orm ies on .
the ser des a ery in the orm of a ery all set of ems dc d .
the ion is hat the nts in dc are les of ome ept / ass / ter in the ata .
the thm hen has to ide a ion to the set hat is , ome set 123 c d ich bly des all the nts in dc and her nts in d ich are lso in his ept / ass / 123
zg is lso at ald , gie lon ity , rgh pa 123
gle ets is a rge - ale ing thm hat ses any ons of ata ces ted rom web ata ( mon ong , nal ion ) .
we are ble to ibe any ils of how the thm rks due its ary ure .
rom ere on , we ill use the erm ter to fer to the get ept .
we can iew his lem rom ral ves .
rst , the ery can be ted as nts of ome own ter , and the put of the thm is the ion of hat ter .
eas ost ing hms are ely sed , ere the ery des sed nts or nts as to the hip of a lar ter .
we all his iew ing on and , nce it ves ing a ter nce ome nts of hat ter ave een led .
an ant age of his ach ver nal ing is hat the few nts in the ery can ive ful ion as to the res ich are ant for ing the ter .
for ple , the ery ush , xon , gan sts hat the res can and us ent are ant to the ter , ile the ery ush , tin , air sts hat ent and rld der are ant .
ven the uge ber of res in any eal rld ata ets , uch nts as to ure nce can uce uch ore ble ers .
ond , we can ink of the oal of the thm to be to lve a lar ion re - val lem ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
as in her val ems , the put uld be ant to the ery , and it kes nse to mit the put to the top few ems ked by nce to the ery .
in our nts , we ake his ach and ort ems ked by nce .
our nce ion is ely ted to a ian ork for ing rns of ion in man ion ( 123 ) .
123 ian ets let d be a ata set of ems , and x d be an tem rom his set .
ume the ser des a ery set dc ich is a all set of d .
our oal is to ank the nts of d by how ell hey uld t nto a set ich des dc .
ely , the ask is ear : if the set d is the set of all ies , and the ery set sts of two ted ney ies , we ect her ted ney ies to be ked hly .
we use a del - sed tic ion to ure how ell ems t nto dc .
ing ved dc as ing to ome ept , we ant to now how ble it is hat x lso ngs ith dc .
his is red by p ( |dc ) .
ing ems ply by his ity is not ble nce ome ems may be ore ble han ers , ess of dc .
for ple , der ost ble els , the ity of a ing ses ith the ber of ers , the ity of an age ses ith the ber of els , and the ity of any ous ble ses ith the ion to ich it is red .
we ant to ove ese cts , so we ute the tio :
ore ( x ) = p ( |dc )
ere the tor is the ior ity of x and der ost ble els ill ale tly tly ith ber of els , ers , ion vel , etc .
ing yes ule , his ore can be re - ten as :
ore ( x ) = p ( x , dc )
ich can be ted as the tio of the int ity of ing x and dc , to the ity of tly ing x and dc .
ely , his tio res the rob - ity hat x and dc ere ted by the ame del ith the ame , ugh own , ers , to the ity hat x and dc ame rom els ith ent ers and 123 ( see ure 123 ) .
lly , up to a ive ant ent of x , the ore can be ten as : ore ( x ) = p ( c|x ) , ich is the ity of ing the ery set ven x ( i . e .
the ood of x ) .
rom the ove ion , it is ill not ear how one uld ute ies uch as p ( |dc ) and p ( x ) .
a ral del - sed way of ing a ter is to ume hat
ure 123 : our ian ore res the ses hat the ata was ted by ach of the ove cal els .
the ata nts in the ter all ome tly and lly ted rom ome ple zed cal del .
ume hat the zed del is p ( x| ) ere are the ers .
if the ata nts in dc all ong to one ter , hen der his ion hey ere ted rom the ame ing of the rs; ver , hat ing is own , so we eed to age ver ble ter ues ted by ome ior ity on ter ues , p ( ) .
ing ese ons and the sic les of ity we ive at :
p ( x| ) p ( ) d
p ( xi| ) p ( ) d
p ( x| ) p ( |dc ) d
p ( |dc ) = p ( dc| ) p ( )
we are now lly ped to ibe the ian ets thm :
ian ets thm
x d , a ior on the del ers p ( )
und : a set of ems d , a tic del p ( x| ) ere put : a ery dc = ( xi ) d for all x d do
ore ( x ) = p ( |dc )
put : urn nts of d ted by ing ore
we ion two ies of his thm to age two mon ies ith ian ity and ity to ors :
for the ple els we ill der , the als ( 123 ) - ( 123 ) are cal .
in act , for the del we der in ion 123 ing all the res can be ced to a gle rse rix ion .
ugh it rly kes nse to put ome ght nto ing ble mod - els p ( x| ) and ors p ( ) , we ill how in 123 hat ven ith ery ple els and ost no ing of the ior one can get ery ive val lts .
in ice , we use a ple cal tic ich ets the ior to be gue but red on the ean of the ata in d .
123 rse ary ata
we now ive in ore ail the ion of the ian ets thm to rse ary ata .
his ype of ata is a ery ral ion for the rge ets we sed in our ons ( ion 123 ) .
ons of ian ets to her rms of ata ( eal - ued , ete , nal , ngs ) are lso ble , and lly cal if the cal del is a ber of the ial ily ( ion 123 ) .
ume ach tem xi dc is a ary tor xi = ( 123 , .
, xij ) ere xij ( 123 , 123 ) , and hat ach ent of xi has an ent lli ion :
the ate ior for the ers of a lli ion is the eta ion :
p ( | , ) =
( j + j )
ere and are ers , and the mma ion is a ion of the ial ion .
for a ery dc = ( xi ) ing of n ors it is asy to how hat :
p ( dc| , ) =y 123 xij and j = j + n pn
( j + j )
ere j = j +pn
( j + j )
123 xij .
for an tem x = ( 123
the ore , ten ith the ers cit , can be ted as ows : ( j +xj ) ( j 3xj )
( j +j +n )
ore ( x ) = p ( |dc , , )
( j +j +n 123 )
( j +j )
( j +j 123 )
( j ) ( j )
( j +xj ) ( j 3xj )
( j ) ( j )
his ing ion can be lly ied .
we use the act hat ( x ) = ( x 123 ) ( x 123 ) for x > 123
for ach j we can der the two ses xj = 123 and xj = 123 and ely .
for xj = 123 we ave a ion .
for xj = 123 we ave a ion j +j
ing ese her we get :
j +j +n
j +j +n
log ore ( x ) = c +x
j + j + n
the log of the ore is ear in x :
log ( j + j ) log ( j + j + n ) + log j log j
if we put the ire ata set d nto one rge rix x ith j mns , we can ute the tor s of log res for all nts ing a gle rix tor ion
qj = log j log j log j + log j
for rse ata ets his ear ion can be ted ery tly .
ach ery dc nds to ing the tor q and lar c .
his can lso be one tly if the ery is lso rse , nce ost nts of q ill ual log j log ( j + n ) ich is ent of the ery .
s = c + xq
123 ial ies
we ize the ove ult to els in the ial ily .
the ion for uch els can be ten in the orm p ( x| ) = f ( x ) g ( ) exp ( >u ( x ) ) , ere u ( x ) is a k - nal tor of ent ics , are the ral ers , and f and g are non - ive ons .
the ate ior is p ( | , ) = h ( , ) g ( ) exp ( > ) , ere and are ers , and h zes the ion .
ven a ery dc = ( xi ) ith n ems , and a ate x , it is not ard to how hat the ore for the ate is :
ore ( x ) = h ( + 123 , + u ( x ) ) h ( + n , +p h ( , ) h ( + n + 123 , + u ( x ) +p
his ion lps us and hen the ore can be ted tly .
rst of all , the ore nly nds on the ize of the ery ( n ) , the ent ics ted rom ach ate , and rom the ole ery .
it ore kes nse to ute u , a rix of ent ics ing to x .
ond , her the ore is a ear ion on u nds on her log h is ear in the ond ent .
his is the ase for the lli ion , but not for all ial ily ons .
ver , for any ons , uch as nal nce ans , ven ugh the ore is ear in u , it can be ted by ing the ity ise to u .
for rse ces , the ore can ore ill be ted in ime ear in the ber of non - ero nts of u .
we ran our ian ets thm on ree ent ets : the ers clo - dia set , ing of the ext of the les in the dia , the vie set , ing of vie ngs by ers of the vie ice , and the ips au - ors set , ing of the ext of les hed in ips mes 123 - 123 ( ing the 123 - 123 ces ) .
the ers set is 123 les by 123 rds , ere the ies are the ber of mes ach ord ars in ach ent .
we ess ( ize ) the ata by umn ing ach ord , and hen ing so hat a ( ar - cle , ord ) try is 123 if hat ord has a ncy of ore han ice the cle ean .
we do lly no ing of the ers .
we use oad cal ors , ere = cm , = c ( 23m ) ere m is a ean tor ver all les , and c = 123
the ous ors are sed for oth her ets .
the vie set was sed , rst by ing ies ted by ess han 123 ple , and ple who ted ess han 123 ies .
hen the set was zed so hat a ( son , vie ) try had lue 123 if the son ave the vie a ing ove 123 ars ( rom a ble 123 - 123 ars ) .
the ata was hen umn zed to unt for all vie ity .
the ize of the set ter ing was 123 ple by 123 ies .
lly the ips hor set ( 123 rds by 123 ors ) , was sed ery rly to the ier set .
it was zed by umn ing ach hor , and hen ing so hat a ( ord , hor ) try is 123 if the hor ses hat ord ore fre - tly han ice the ord ean oss all ors .
the lts of our nts , and ons ith gle ets for ord and vie ies are ven in les 123 and 123
ely , ips ors ave not yet ved the ind of ity on the web ary for gle ets to ork ely .
ead we ist the top rds ted ith the ter of ors ven by our thm ( ble 123 ) .
the ing mes of our thm on all ree ets are ven in ble 123
all eri - nts ere run in lab on a ghz ium 123 , iba top .
our thm is ery ast oth at pre - ing the ata , and ing ies ( out 123 sec per ery ) .
ble 123 : for ach set we ive the ize of hat set ong ith the ime ken to do the ( one - ime ) ing and the ime ken to ake a ery ( oth in nds ) .
ery : ior , ier
ery : ish , ter , ral
ble 123 : ers of rds und by gle ets and ian ets sed on the ven ies .
the top few are own for ach ery and ach thm .
ian ets was run ing ier
it is ery ult to ely ate our lts nce ere is no und uth for his ask .
one ons dea of a ood ery ter may fer lly rom her ons .
we ose to are our thm to gle ets nce it was our ain ion and it is tly the ost lic and nly sed thm for ing his ask .
nce we do not ave ess to the gle ets thm it was ble for us to run eir hod on our ets .
ver , gle ets ies on ast nts of web ata , ich we do not ave .
ite ose two ant ats , gle ets rly ows a lot out 123 and rds , and the son to ian ets is ive .
we und hat gle ets med ery ell hen the ery ted of ems ich can be und ted on the web ( e . g .
dge ges ) .
on the her and , for ore act pts ( e . g .
ier and ior , see ble 123 ) our thm ned ore ile we eve hat ost of our lts are elf - ory , ere are a few ils hat we uld ike to ate on .
the top ery in ble 123 sts of two sic tic ies ,
3in act , one of the ple ies on the gle ets ite is a ery of vie les .
ery : one ith the ind , nca
one ith the ind ( 123 )
est ves mas ( 123 )
zen ane ( 123 ) pet ive ( 123 )
ard of oz ( 123 ) the her ( 123 )
nce of bia ( 123 ) on the ont ( 123 ) ery : ary ins , toy ory
one ith the ind ( 123 )
the can een ( 123 )
the hia ory ( 123 )
my air ady ( 123 )
the res of bin ood ( 123 )
the ese con ( 123 )
ing in the ain ( 123 )
it ned one ght ( 123 )
ery : oat and , ast ion ero
toy ory 123
the ast and the ous
nie the ooh
the ove bug
ast ion ero
end of ays
obs and cks
the lor of ght
but im a der
the ent rap
who med ger bit
the und of sic
ams ily i ams ily ii
ast ion ero
ull the ror ire in lyn
age of the ned
ble 123 : ers of ies und by gle ets and ian ets sed on the ven ies .
the top 123 are own for ach ery and ach thm .
ian ets was run ing the vie
and ile ost of the ies ned by ian ets are lso sic ces , dly any of the ies ned by gle ets are ces , and it uld be ult to all est ves mas her a nce or a sic .
oth oat and and ast ion ero are ion vie ops , as are any of the ies ven by our thm for hat ery .
all the yes ets ies ted ith the ery ary ins and toy ory are ens ies , ile 123 of gle ets ies are not .
but im a der , ile ing to be a ens vie , is lly an r ted vie ing ian and gay ens .
ery : a . ola , b . opf
ery : l . aul , t . ola
ery : a . ng , r . ton
ble 123 : ips ors und by ian ets sed on the ven ies .
the top 123 are own for ach ery ong ith the top 123 rds ted ith hat ter of ors .
ian ets was run ing ips ata rom vol 123 - 123 ( 123 - 123 ces ) .
the ips hor set is her all , and co - ors of ips ers ear ery lar to ach her .
ore , any of the ors und by our thm are co - ors of a ips per ith one or ore of the ery ors .
an ple ere his is not the ase is wim nck , who we do not eve ver hed a ips per ith nce aul or mmi ola , ugh he did ave a ips per on nal ing and cal
as art of the ion of our thm , we wed 123 ave cts the led lts of ian ets and gle ets for the ies own rom the vie and ers dia ets , and ked hem to ose ich hey red .
the lts of his udy are ven in ble 123
one ith the ind
% yes ets
ble 123 : for ach ted ery ( ted by rst ery tem ) , we ive the age of re - nts who red the lts ven by ian ets and the p - lue ing the ull sis hat gle ets is ble to ian ets on hat lar ery .
