kis et al .
( 123 ) ade a lar ion and ion in the ech ing ity .
nce ain we ion the ook by ott et al .
( 123 ) , ich lso ers ing in his ext .
the sis of all the ing hms ted by ese ors is the ful em thm ( aum & rie , 23; ter , ird , & ru - bin , 123 ) .
the ive of the thm is to ize the ood of the ved ata ( ion 123 ) in the nce of den les .
let us ote the ved ata by y = ( 123 , .
, y ) , the den les by x = ( 123 , .
, x ) , and the ers of the del by .
ing the ood as a ion of is ent to ing the log - ood :
l ( ) = log p ( y| ) = log
p ( x , y| ) dx .
ing any ion q ver the den les , we can ain a wer und on l :
p ( y , x| ) dx = log = f ( q , ) ,
q ( x ) p ( x , y| ) p ( x , y| )
q ( x ) log p ( x , y| ) dx
q ( x ) log q ( x ) dx ( 23c )
ere the dle ity is own as ens ity and can be ved ing the ity of the log ion .
if we ene the rgy of a bal ion ( x , y ) to be log p ( x , y| ) , hen ome ers may ice hat the wer und f ( q , ) l ( ) is the ive of a ity own in cal ics as the ree rgy : the ted rgy un - der q nus the opy of q ( eal & ton , 123 ) .
the em thm tes een ing f ith ect to the ion q and the ers , ely , ing the her xed .
ing rom ome ial ers 123 :
123 arg max
f ( q , k )
a ing iew of ear ian els f ( 123 , ) .
123 arg max
it is asy to how hat the mum in the e - tep lts hen q is tly the nal ion of x : 123 ( x ) = p ( x|y , k ) , at ich int the und mes an ity : f ( 123 , k ) = l ( k ) .
the mum in the m - tep is ned by ing the rst erm in ion 23c , nce the opy of q oes not end on : 123 arg max
p ( x|y , k ) log p ( x , y| ) dx .
his is the ion ost ten ted ith the em thm , but it res the ant ion of em as ate ent in f ( eal & ton , 123 ) .
nce f = l at the ing of ach m - tep and nce the e - tep oes not nge , we are eed not to ase the ood ter ach ned em - tep .
ore , at the art of the em ing ure is the ing dea : use the ons to the ing and ing lem to ate the own den tes ven the ons and the ent del ers .
hen use his ous ete ata to lve for new del ers .
ven the ted tes ned rom the nce lgo - thm , it is lly asy to lve for new ers .
for ear ian els , his lly ves ing tic rms uch as qua - ion 123 , ich can be one ith ear ion .
his ess is ted ing ese new del ers to fer the den tes ain , and so on .
we all iew the ils of lar hms as we ent the ous es; ver , we now uch on one ral int hat ten ses ion .
our oal is to ize the tal ood ( see ion 123 ) ( or tly ize the tal log ood ) of the ved ata ith ect to the del ers .
his ans ing ( or ing ) ver all ays in ich the ive del uld ave ced the ata .
as a nce of ing the em thm to do his ion , we nd ves ing to ute ( and ize ) the ted log - ood of the int ata , ere the ion is ken ver the ion of den ues ted by the ent del ers and the rva - ons .
hus , it ars hat we are ing the ect ity , but ing so is in act eed to ase ( or eep the ame ) the ity of est at ach ion of the thm .
123 ous - ate ear ian ems
ing bed the sic del and ing ure , we now cus on cic ear ces of the del in ich the den ate ble x is ous and the ise ses are ian .
his ill low us to
sam eis and bin ani
ate the hip ong tor sis , pca , and man ter els .
we ide our ion nto els hat ate tic ata and ose hat ate mic ata .
tic ata ave no ral ce; no ion uld be ost by ing the ing of the ata nts yt; eas for mic ata , the ime ing of the ata nts is ial .
123 tic ata ing : tor sis , pca , and pca .
in any ons we ave son to eve ( or at ast to ume ) hat ach int in our ata set was ted tly and lly .
in her rds , ere is no ral ( ral ) ing to the ata ts; hey ely orm a ion .
in uch ses , we ume hat the ing ate tor x has no cs; the rix a is the ero rix , and ore x is ply a ant ( ich we ake out oss of ity to be the ero tor ) ted by ise .
the new ive del hen mes :
a = 123 x = w
y = cx + v
w n ( 123 , q ) v n ( 123 , r ) .
ice hat nce xt is ven nly by the ise w and nce yt nds nly on xt , all ral nce has red .
his is the ion for the erm tic and for the ons x and y ove .
we lso no ger use a ate ion for the ial ate : 123 x w n ( 123 , q ) .
ion 123 to ain the nal ion of y , ich is the ian ,
his del is ted in ure 123
we can lly ate qua -
123 , qct + r
two ngs are ant to ice .
rst , the acy ned ove sts een the ure in q and c . 123 his ans ere is no oss of ity in ing q to be nal .
ore , ere is ar - ary ing of ale een a nal q and c .
lly we her ict the mns of c to be nit ors or ake q the ity rix to lve his acy .
in hat ows we ill ume q = i out oss of ity .
ond , the nce rix r of the ion ise ust be re - ted in ome way for the del to ure any ing or ive ons in the ate x .
if r ere not ted , ing uld ply ose c = 123 and hen set r to be the ple nce of the ata , hus lly ing the mum ood del by ing all of the
123 if we ize q and ite the nce of y , the acy mes ear : .
to ake q nal , we ply ace c ith
123 , ( 123 / 123 ) ( 123 / 123 ) t + r
a ing iew of ear ian els
ure 123 : tic ive del ( ous ate ) . the nce rix of the put ise w is q and the nce rix of the put ise v is r .
in the ork del low , the ler les ent ise ces and all its are ear .
ing hts ave nly een awn rom one den nit .
his del is ent to tor sis , pca and pca els ing on the put ise nce .
for tor sis , q = i and r is nal .
for pca , q = i and r = i .
for pca , q = i and r = 123 i .
ure in the ata as ise .
( ber hat nce the del has ced to a gle ian ion for y , we can do no ter han ing the nce of our del ual the ple nce of our ata . ) ote hat ing r , ike ing q nal , oes ute ome oss of ity rom the nal del of ons 123 .
ere is an ive ial way to ink out his tic ive del .
we use ite ise to ate a cal all ( nce q = i ) of ity in k - nal ate - ace .
his all is hen hed and ted nto p - nal ion ace by the rix c , ere it oks ike a k - nal ake .
the ake is hen ved ith the nce ity of v ( bed by r ) to get the nal nce del for y .
we ant the ing dal ity to be as ose as ble to the oid ven by the ple nce of our ata .
if we ict the ape of the v nce by ing r , we can rce ing ion to ear in oth r and c as a ult .
lly , rve hat all ies of ing and ing uce to the ame lem in his tic del use ere is no ime nce .
we ver a gle den ate are ing nly the ior ity p ven the ing gle ion .
his nce is ily one by
sam eis and bin ani
ear rix ion , and the ing ity is elf ian :
( cid : 123 ) = p ( cid : 123 ) = n ( cid : 123 ) y , i c
= n ( cx , r ) |y n ( 123 , i ) |x
123 , cct + r = ct ( cct + r ) 123 ,
rom ich we ain not nly the ted lue y of the own ate but lso an ate of the nty in his lue in the orm of the nce i c .
ing the ood of a ata int y is ely an ion der the ian in ion 123 .
the ing lem now sts of ing the ces c and r .
ere is a ily of em hms to do his for the ous ses sed low , ich are ven in ail at the end of his iew .
123 tor sis .
if we ict the nce rix r hat ols the ion ise to be nal ( in her rds , the nce oid of v is xis ned ) and set the ate ise q to be the ity rix , hen we ver tly a ard cal del own as mum ood tor sis .
the own tes x are led the ors in his xt; the rix c is led the tor ing rix , and the nal nts of r are ten own as the ses .
( see itt , 123 , for a ief and ear ion . ) the nce ion is one tly as in ion 23b .
the ing thm for the ing rix and the ses is tly an em thm ept hat we ust ake are to ain r rly ( ich is as asy as ing the nal of the ned mum ood te; see bin & yer , 23; ani & ton , 123 ) .
if c is ely ree , his ure is led ory tor is; if we ild a ori ros nto c , it is ory tor sis .
in ory tor sis , we are ing to del the nce ure of our ata ith p + pk k ( k 123 ) / 123 ree 123 ead of the p ( p + 123 ) / 123 ree ers in a ull nce rix .
the ity of r is the key ion ere .
tor sis pts to ain the nce ure in the ved ata by ing all the nce que to ach ate in the rix r and ing all the cor - ion ure nto c ( his ion was rst ade by ens , 123 , in nse to ork by old ) .
in nce , tor sis ers the xis ion in ich the nal ata ved to be ial use ion ise ( ten led sor ise ) is ent ong the tes in ese xes .
ver , the nal ing of the tes is ant .
if we ere to nge the its in ich we red ome of the nts of y , tor sis uld ely ale the ing try in r and
123 the ion k ( k 123 ) / 123 mes in use of acy in ary ons
of the ors .
see , for ple , itt ( 123 ) .
a ing iew of ear ian els
row in c and eve a new del hat gns the led ata cal ood .
on the her and , if we ate the xes in ich we ure the ata , we uld not ily x ngs nce the ise v is ned to ave xis ned nce ( r is nal ) .
em for tor sis has een zed as ing ite low ( bin & yer , 123 ) .
eed , the ard hod for ing a tor sis del ( kog , 123 ) is sed on a asi - ton ion thm ( her & ell , 123 ) , ich has een und lly to rge ter han em .
we ent the em thm ere not use it is the ost ent way of ing a tor sis del , but use we ish to ize hat for tor sis and all the her ent ble els wed ere , em des a ied ach to ing .
lly , ent ork in ine ing has own hat it is ble to ive a ily of em - ike hms ith ter nce tes han the ard em thm ( nen & uth , 23; uer , ler , & ger , 123 ) .
123 pca and pca .
if ead of ing r to be ely nal , we ire it to be a ple of the ity rix ( in her rds , the nce oid of v is cal ) , hen we ave a del hat we ill all ble pal ent sis ( pca ) ( eis , 123 ) .
the mns of c pan the pal ace ( the ame ace und by pca ) , and we ill all the lar lue on the nal of r the bal ise vel .
ote hat pca ses 23+ pk k ( k 123 ) / 123 ree ers to del the nce .
nce ain , nce is one ith ion 23b and ing by the em thm ( ept hat we now ake the ace of the mum ood ate for r to arn the ise el; see ( eis , 123 ) ) .
ike tor sis , pca ers the nal xis ion in ich the ata ved to be ant : if the ent ate tem ere ted , pca uld ( eft ) ply c by the ame ion , and the ood of the new ata uld not nge .
on the her and , the nal ing of the tes is ged use pca mes hat the ion ise has the ame nce in all ons in the ent its sed for the ved ata .
if we ere to ale one of the nts of y , the del uld not be ily ted nce v has cal nce ( r = i ) .
the pca del is ery lar to the tly sed tic pal ent sis ( ing & hop , 123 ) .
if we go ven her and ake the mit r = 123 i ( ile ing the nal nts of q ite ) 123 hen we ain the ard pal ent sis ( pca ) del .
the ons of the mns of c are
123 nce pic ing of the ata ace is ary , we uld ust as ily ake the mit as the nal nts of q ame ite ile ing r ite or ake oth its at nce .
the dea is hat the ise nce mes mal red to the ale of the ata .
sam eis and bin ani
own as the pal nts .
nce now ces to ple ast
( cid : 123 ) |x , = lim y , i c = ( x ( ctc ) cty ) .
ct ( cct + i ) 123
nce the ise has ome mal , the ior ver tes ses to a gle int , and the nce mes ero .
ere is ill an em thm for ing ( eis , 123 ) , ugh it can arn nly c .
for pca , we uld ust ize the ple nce of the ata and ake the ing k ors ied by eir ues to be the mns of c .
his ach uld ive us c in one tep but has any ems . 123 the em ing thm nts to an ive ure for ing ese ing ors out cit ion .
an ant nal ent is hat ( lar ) pca oes not ene a per ity del in the ion ace , so we not ask tly out the ood ned by the del to ome ata .
we can , ver , ine a ity hat is nal to the ive log - ood in the mit of ero ise .
his is the sum red ion of ach ata int rom its ion .
it is his ost hat the ing thm nds up ing and is the nly ble ion of how ell a pca del ts new ata .
his is one of the ost cal ngs of pca : ing nts by ary nts ide the pal ace has no ect on the del ror .
123 all hat if c is pk ith p > k and is ank k , hen eft ion by ct ( cct ) 123 ( ich ars not to be ell ned use cct is not ble ) is tly ent to eft ion by ( ctc ) 3ct .
his is the ame as the lar lue ion dea of ing the rse of the nal lar lue rix as the rse of an ent ess it is ero , in ich ase it ins ero .
the ion is hat ugh cct uly is not ble , the ons ong ich it is not ble are tly ose hat ct is out to ect out .
123 it is lly ery ard to ize or ert rge ces .
it lso res an ous unt of ata to ake a rge ple nce rix ull ank .
if we are ing ith rns in a rge ( nds ) ber of ons and ant to act nly a few ( ens ) pal nts , we not ely try to ize the ple nce of our ata .
ues ike the hot hod ( ich , 123 ) mpt to ess his but ill ire the ion of an n n rix ere n is the ber of ata nts .
the em thm ach ves all of ese ems , ing no cit ion ver and the ion of nly a kk rix .
it is eed to rge to the rue pal ace ( the ame ace ned by the pal nts ) .
cal nts ( eis , 123 ) ate hat it ges in a few ons , ess the tio of the ing ues is ear ity .
a ing iew of ear ian els
123 ime - ies ing : man ter els .
we use the erm dy - mic ata to fer to ion ces in ich the ral ing is ant .
for uch ata , we do not ant to ore the ate ion ics , ich des the nly ect of the del ble of ing ral ure .
ems bed by the nal mic ive del , own in ons 23a and 23b , are own as ear cal ems or man ter els and ave een ely ted by the ing and rol ies for des .
the sis has lly een on nce ems : the ous ete man ter ( man , 23; man & ucy , 123 ) ves an ent ive ion to the mal ing and ood ion ems , ile the rts ons ( uch , 23; uch et al . , 123 ) lve the mal ing lem .
ing of own del ers was ied by hum - way and fer ( 123 ) ( c own ) and by ani and ton ( 23a ) and kis et al .
( 123 ) ( all ers own ) .
ure 123 tes his del , and the dix ves ode for its ion .
we can end our ial ion of the tic ase to his mic del .
as ore , any int in ate - ace is ded by a all ( or oid ) of ity ( bed by q ) , ich is hed ( by c ) nto a ake in ion ace and hen ved ith the ion ise ari - nce ( bed by r ) .
ver , ike the tic ase , in ich we ays red our all of ity on the gin in ate - ace , the ter of the ate - ace all now ows rom ime tep to ime tep .
the ow is ord - ing to the eld bed by the ues and ors of the rix a .
we ove to a new int ing to his ow ld; hen we ter our all on hat int and ick a new ate .
rom his new ate , we ain ow to a new int and hen ply ise .
if a is the ity rix ( not the ero rix ) , hen the ow oes not ove us ere , and the ate ust ves ing to a dom alk of the ise set by q .
123 ete - ate ear ian els
we now der a ple ion of the sic ous ate del in ich the ate at any ime kes on one of a ite ber of ete val - ues .
any eal - rld ses , lly ose hat ave nct des of ion , are ter led by nal tes hat are not ous .
( it is lso ble to uct els hat ave a xed ous and ete ate . ) the ate ion is ill rst - der ian ics , and the ion ess is ill ear ith ive ian ise .
the ion ves the use of the ner - ake - all ity wta ( ) , ned uch hat wta ( x ) for any tor x is a new tor ith ity in the ion of the est ate of the put and ros in all her ons .
the ete - ate ive del is now ply :
123 = wta ( axt + wt ) = wta ( axt + w ) yt = cxt + vt = cxt + v
sam eis and bin ani
ure 123 : ete ate ive del for mic ata .
the wta ( ) ock 123 ock is a nit lay .
the nts the ner - ake - all ity .
the z nce rix of the put ise w is q and the nce rix of the put ise v is r .
in the ork del low , the ler les ent ise ces and the den its x ave a ner ake all our ( ted by hed nes ) .
ing hts ave nly een awn rom one den nit .
his del is ent to a den kov del ith ied put
ere a is no ger own as the ate ion rix ( ugh we ill see hat rix tly ) .
as ore , the k - tor w and p - tor v are lly ite and lly ian ted ses ent of ach her and of x and y .
the ial ate 123 is ted in the ous
123 = wta ( n ( cid : 123 )
( ugh we ill oon see hat out oss of ity 123 can be ted to be the ity rix ) .
his ete ate ive del is ted in ure 123
123 tic ata ing : res of ans and tor nti - ion .
ust as in the ous - ate del , we can der ons in
a ing iew of ear ian els
ich ere is no ral ing to our ata , and so set the rix a to be the ero rix .
in his ete - ate ase , the ive del mes :
w n ( , q ) v n ( 123 , r ) .
a = 123 x = wta ( w ) y = cx + v
x = ej
ach ate x is ted 123 ing to a xed ete ity ram led by the ean and nce of w .
cif - is the ity ned by the ian n ( , q ) lly , j = p to the ion of k - ace in ich the jth ate is ger han all ers .
( ere ej is the nit tor ong the jth ate ion . ) ice hat to ain orm ors j ith the wta ( ) ity , we ire a ero ean for the ise w .
nce the ate has een sen , the cor - ing put y is ted rom a ian ose ean is the jth umn of c and ose nce is r .
his is tly the ard ure of ian ers del ept hat the ces of all the ers are ned to be the ame .
the ies j = p to the ing nts of the ers , and the mns of c are the lus - ter ans .
ing r in ous ays nds to ing the ape of the nce of the ers .
his del is ted in ure 123
x = ej
to ute the ood of a ata int , we can tly orm the sum ent to the ral in ion 123 nce it ins nly k rms ,
( cid : 123 ) = k ( cid : 123 )
x = ej , y
n ( ci , r ) |y p ( x = ei )
n ( ci , r ) |y i ,
( cid : 123 ) = k ( cid : 123 )
ere ci tes the ith umn of c .
ain , all ies of nce and ing are the ame , and we are ply ing the set of ete bil - j = 123 , .
in her rds , we eed to do tic ion .
the lem is ily ved by ing the ies x hat ach ter has for the ata int y : x = ej , y x = ej n ( ci , r ) |y p ( x = ei )
x = j|y ( x ) j = n ( cid : 123 ) ( x ) j = p x = j|y
x = ei , y
( cid : 123 ) = p
x = ej , y
123 as in the ous tic ase , we ain nse ith any ial ent of
the ial ate .
sam eis and bin ani
ure 123 : tic ive del ( ete ate ) .
the wta ( ) ock nts the ner - ake - all ity .
the nce rix of the put ise w is q and the nce rix of the put ise v is r .
in the ork del low , the ler les ent ise ces and the den its x ave a ner ake all our ( ted by hed nes ) .
ing hts ave nly een awn rom one den nit .
his del is ent to a ure of ian ers ith ied ces r or to tor ion ( vq ) hen r = 123 i .
n ( ci , r ) |y i
the ean x of the ate tor ven a ata int is tly the tor of ies for hat ata int .
his ity nes the ire ior ion of the ete den ate ven the ata int .
as a ure of the ess or nty in the den ate , one uld ate the opy or zed 123 of the ete ion ing to x .
ugh his may eem ted to the nce of the ior in tor sis , his ogy is ive .
nce x nes the ire tri - ion , no her nce ure is ded .
ing sts of ing the ter ans ( mns of c ) , the nce r , and the ing oef - nts j .
his is ily one ith em and nds tly to mum ood ive ing ( uda & art , 23; lan , 123 ) , ept
123 the opy of the ion ded by the thm of k so hat it ays ies
een ero and one .
a ing iew of ear ian els
hat all the ers are the ame nce .
ter we uce ons to the del hat ove his ion .
as in the ous - ate ase , we can der the mit as the ob - ion ise mes mal red to the ale of the ata .
hat lts is the ard tor ion del .
the nce ( las - ion ) lem is now ved by the one - est - bor ule , ing ean nce if r is a ple of the ity rix , or bis nce in the led rix r ise .
rly to pca , nce the ion ise has red , the ior ses to ave all of its ass on one ter ( the est ) , and the ing nty ( opy ) mes ero .
ing ith em is ent to ing a tch ion of the k - ans thm uch as hat sed by oyd ( 123 ) .
as ith pca , tor ion oes not ene a per ity in the ion ace .
nce ain , we ine the sum red ion of ach int rom its est ter ter as a ity nal to the ood in the mit of ero ise .
tch k - ans hms ize his ost in ieu of ing a per ood .
123 = |xt = ei
123 ime - ies ing : den kov els .
we urn now to the lly mic ete - ate del ced in ons 23a and 23b .
our key ion is hat the ics bed by ion 23a are tly ent to the ore nal ete kov ain ics ing a ate ion rix t , ere tij = p .
it is asy to see how to ute the ent ate ion rix t ven a and q ove : tij is the ity ned by the ian ose ean is the ith umn of a ( and ose nce is q ) to the ion of k - ace in ich the jth ate is ger han all ers .
it is lso rue hat for any ion rix t ( ose ows ach sum to ity ) , ere ist ces a and q uch hat the ics are ent . 123 rly , the ial ity ass ion for 123 is ily ted rom 123 and 123 and for any red ram ver the tes for 123 ere ist a 123 and 123 hat eve it .
lar acy sts in his ete - ate del as in the ous - ate del ept hat it is now een the ure of a and q .
nce for any ise nce q , the ans in the mns of a can be sen to set any ent ion ies tij , we can out oss of ity ict q to be the ity rix and use nly the ans in the mns
123 ugh der to see .
tch of oof : out oss of ity , ays set the nce to the ity rix .
ext , set the dot uct of the ean tor ith the k - tor ing ity in all ons to be ero nce ing ong his ion oes not nge the ies .
now ere are ( k 123 ) ees of dom in the ean and lso in the ity del .
set the ean mly at rst ( ept hat it has no ion ong the all - ity ion ) .
ove the ean ong a ine ned by the int hat all ies but two uld ain ant til one of ose two ies has the red lue .
eat his til all ave een set tly .
sam eis and bin ani of a to set ies .
tly , we can ict 123 = i and use nly the ean 123 to set the ies for the ial ate 123
hus , his ive del is ent to a ard hmm ept hat the ion ity ies are all ned to ave the ame co - nce .
ood and ing ons are med ith the so - led ard ( pha ) ons , ile ete ing is one ith the ard - ard ( pha - eta ) ons .
the em thm for arn - ing is tly the ell - own aum - lch ion ure ( aum & rie , 23; aum et al . , 123 ) .
ere is an ant and iar nce of ing the ate hat cts the ing lem .
the ate nce med by ing the ost ble ate of the ior ion at ach ime ( as ted by the ard - ard ons ven the ved ata and del ers ) is not the gle ate nce ost ely to ave ced the ved ata .
in act , the nce of tes ned by ing the tes hat lly ave mum ior ity at ach ime tep may ave ero ity der the ior .
his tes the eed for ate nce hms to nd the gle ost ely ate nce ven the ons .
uch hms for ing and ing are led rbi ing ods ( rbi , 123 ) .
why was ere no eed for lar ing in the ous - ate ase ? it rns out hat due to the oth and dal ure of the ior ies for ual tes in the ous ase ( all ors are ian ) , the nce of mum a ori tes is tly the gle ost ely ate ory , so the lar man ter and rts ing ons fce .
it is ble ( see , for ple , ner & ang , 123 ) to arn the ete - ate del ers sed on the lts of the rbi ing ead of the ard - ard gin her rds , to ize the int ood of the ons and the gle ost ely ate nce her han the tal ood med ver all ble ths ugh
123 ent ent sis
ere has een a eat eal of ent est in the ind rce ion lem hat pts to ver a ber of rce als rom ser - ons ing rom ose als , ing nly the dge hat the rig - nal ces are ent .
in the are - ear ion of the lem , the ion ess is zed ely by a are and ble rix c .
in her rds , ere are as any ion ams as ces , and ere is no lay , cho , or nal ion .
ent nce has own the ing ult hat for ian ted ces , his lem can ten be ved ven ith no ior dge out the ces or out c .
it is ely ved ( and ing to be ved heo -
a ing iew of ear ian els
ly; see kay , 123 ) hat igh sis rce ons are ost
we ill cus on a ied , but by now sic , ion due to ell and ski ( 123 ) and ram and oth ( 123 ) of the nal ent ent sis thm ( mon , 123 ) .
ugh ell and ski ved it rom an ion - ion ive , his ied thm can lso be ned by ing a lar ior ion ver the nts of the tor xt of ces and hen ing a ent ing ule hat zes the ood of the ata yt in the mit of ero put ise ( ari , cki , & ang , 23; ter & rra , 23; kay , 123 ) .
the thm , lly ved for red ata , has lso een ded to ing ime ies ( ter & rra , 123 ) .
we now how hat the ive del ing ica can be ned by ing tly the sic del we ave red hus far .
the ion is to ace the wta ( ) ity ced ove ith a ral ity g ( ) hat tes ise on its put .
our ive del ( for tic ata ) hen mes :
x = g ( w ) y = cx + v
w n ( 123 , q ) v n ( 123 , r ) .
the ole of the ity is to ert the ian ted ior for w nto a ian ior for x .
out oss of ity , we can set q = i , nce any nce ure in q can be be ned by a ear ion of a n ( 123 , i ) dom ble , and his ear ion can be med nto the ity g ( ) .
ing hat the ive ity g ( ) is ble and ble , any ice of the ive ity lts in a ing ior ion on ach rce ven by the ity ity ion :
px ( x ) = n ( 123 , 123 ) 123 ( x )
it is ant to ish his ive ity rom the non - ity und in the ica ing ule .
we all his the ing ule non - f ( ) , and ify the ion een the two ies sic ica is ned for are and ble c in the mit of ing ise , r = 123 i .
der ese ons , the ior ity of x ven y is a lta ion at x = c 23y , and the ica thm can be ned in rms of ing the ion ( or ing ) hts w = c her han the ive ( ing ) hts c .
the ent ing ule to ase the ood is
t + f ( wy ) yt ,
sam eis and bin ani ere the ing ule ity f ( ) is the ive of the cit log ior : f ( x ) = d log px ( x ) ( kay , 123 ) .
ore , any ive non - ity g ( ) lts in a ian ior px ( ) , ich in urn lts in a ity f ( ) in the mum ood ing ule .
hat rus - gly rom the ive els ive , ica is ten sed in rms of the ing ule ity out any nce to the cit ior ver the ces .
a lar ice for the ica ing ule ity f ( ) is the anh ( ) ion , ich nds to a avy led ior ver the ces
rom ion 123 , we ain a ral hip een the ive ion ion of the ior on the ces , dfx ( x ) , and of the ero - ean , nit nce ise w ,
dfx ( g ( w ) ) = dfw ( w ) = 123
for nic g , ere erf ( z ) is the ror ion 123 / hip can ten be ved to ain an ion for g .
for ple , if px ( x ) =
osh ( x ) , we nd hat ing
123 + erf ( w /
g ( w ) = ln
ses the ive del of ons 123 to ate ors x in ich ach ent is ted tly ing to 123 / ( osh ( x ) ) .
his non - ity is own in ure 123
ica can be een her as a ear ive del ith ian ors for the den les or as a ear ive del ith ian ors for the den les .
it is ore ble to ive an em thm for ica , ven hen the ion ise r is ero and ere are wer ces han ons .
the nly ion is hat the ior ion of x ven y ill be the uct of a ian ior and a ian ood erm , ich can be ult to ate .
ven his ior , the m tep hen sts of ing the ted log of the int ity as a ion of c and r .
the m - tep for c is
c arg max
log p ( x ) + log p ( i|x , c , r )
ere i xes the ata nts and ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) i tes ion ith ect to the ior ion of x ven yi , p ( |yi , c , r ) .
the rst erm oes not
a ing iew of ear ian els
123 123 123 123 123
ure 123 : the ity g ( ) rom ion 123 ich rts a ian dis - ted rce w n ( 123 , 123 ) nto one ted as x = g ( w ) 123 / ( osh ( x ) ) .
end on c , and the ond erm is a tic in c , so ing ves ith ect to c , we ain a ear tem of ons hat can be ved in the ual ner :
a lar m - tep can be ved for r .
nce , ven x , the ive del is ear , the m - tep res nly ing the rst and ond nts of the ior ion of x : ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) i and ( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) i .
it is not ary to now ing lse out the ior if its rst two nts can be ted .
ese may be ted ing bbs ing or , for ain rce ors , ing ble kup or sed - orm ion . 123 in lar , nes et al .
( 123 ) and ias and ner ( 123 ) ave tly sed ing a ian ure to del the ior for ach ent of the rce , x .
the ior ion ver x is hen lso a ian ure , ich can be ted lly and sed to ive an em thm for oth the ing rix and the rce ies .
the nly eat is hat the ber of ian nts in the ior ows lly in the ber of ces , 123 ich its the ity of his hod to els ith nly a few ces .
123 in the mit of ero ise , r = 123 , the em tes ved in his ner ate to c c and r r .
nce his oes not ase the ood , it oes not ict the nce oof for the em thm .
ver , it lso oes not ase the ood , ich ght ain why no one ses em to t the ard ero - ise ica del .
123 if ach rce is led as a ure of k ans and ere are m ces , hen
ere are km nts in the ure .
sam eis and bin ani
ely , we can ute the ior ion of w ven y , ich is the uct of a ian ior and a ian ood .
ain , his may not be asy , and we may ish to ort to bbs ing ( man & man , 123 ) or her kov ain nte rlo ods ( eal , 123 ) .
her ion is to loy a tic ick tly sed by hop , son , and ams ( 123 ) in the ext of the ive opo - hic map ( gtm ) , ich is a tic ion of ens ( 123 ) elf - zed hic map .
we ate the ian ior via a ite ber ( n ) of xed nts ( his is the ick ) .
in her rds ,
p ( w ) = n ( 123 , i ) p ( w ) = n ( cid : 123 )
ere the wjs are a ite ple rom n ( 123 , i ) .
the ive del hen kes ese n nts , aps hem ugh a xed ity g , an ble ear ing c , and dds ian ise ith nce r to uce y .
the ive del is ore a ned ure of n ans , ere the int mes rom the act hat the nly way the ers can ove is by ing c .
hen , ing the ior ver w nts to ing the ity der ach of the n ans for the ata int .
ven ese ies , the lem is ain ear in c , ich ans hat it can be ved ing ion 123 .
for the nal ero - ise mit of ica , the ies ill ect the ter est to the ata int in tly the ame ner as ard tor ion .
ore , ica uld lly be ted ing em for tms in the mit of ero
123 ork ons and ion
rly in the ern ory of ral rks , it was zed hat pca uld be ted ing a ear der ork ( ldi & nik , 123 ) .
the ata are fed as oth the put and get of the ork , and the ork ers are ned ing the red ror ost ion .
in his ion , we how how tor sis and ure of ian ers can lso be ted in his ner , eit ith a ent ost ion .
to and how a tic del can be ned ing an au - der it is ery ful to ake a ion - ion ion of the der ( ton & mel , 23; ton , yan , & vow , 123 ) .
an der kes an put y , ces ome nal ion in the den yer x , and tes at its put a ion of the put y in ure 123
we all the ing rom den to put ers the ive art of the ork nce it tes the ata rom a ( lly ore act ) ion der ome ise del .
ely , we all the ing rom put to den its the ion art of the ork
a ing iew of ear ian els
ure 123 : a ork for ate nce and for ing ers of a tic ata del .
the put y is ped to the put its ( tom ) , and the ean x of the ior of the ted ate ars on the den its ove .
the nce of the ate ior is ant at i c ich is ily ted if the hts are own .
the nce ion is a ial ear ion , but ing the hts of the nce ork is ult .
the put to den hts are ays ned to be a ion of the den to put hts , and the ork is ned as an der ing elf - sed ing .
ing hts ave nly een awn rom one put nit and one den
nce it ces ome ion in the den les ven the in - put .
use ers are lly med to be tic , we ill ink of the ion ork as ing the ior ean of the den les ven the put .
the ive del for tor sis mes hat oth the den tes and the les are lly ted , rom ich we get the ior ies for the den tes in ion 23b .
if we ume hat the ive ght rix rom the den its to the uts is c and the ise del at the put is ian ith nce r , hen the ior ean of the den les is x = y , ere = ct ( cct + r ) 123
ore , the den its can ute the ior ean tly if hey are ear and the ght rix rom put to den its is .
ice hat is ied to c and r , so we nly eed to ate c and r ing ing .
we ote ons der the ior ate ion by ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) , for ple ,
xp ( x|y ) dx = x .
rom the ory of the em thm ( see ion 123 ) , we now hat one way to ize the ood is to ize the ted lue of the log of the int ity der the ior ion of the den
( cid : 123 ) log p ( x , y|c , r ) ( cid : 123 ) .
sam eis and bin ani
ing gns and ing nts , we can tly ize the ing ost ion : c = ( cid : 123 ) ( y cx ) tr = yt r = ( y cx ) tr
123 ( y cx ) ( cid : 123 ) + |r| 23c ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) + ( cid : 123 ) xt ctr 123 ( y cx ) + |r| + ace ( ctr
3cx ( cid : 123 ) + |r|
23y 3yt r
ere we ave ned to be the ior nce of x ,
( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) t = i c ,
and in the ast tep we ave zed rms and ade use of the act hat
3cx ( cid : 123 ) = ace ( ctr
the rst two rms of ost ion in ion 23c are ust a red ror ost ion ted ith ect to a ian ise del ith nce r .
hey are tly the rms zed hen ing a ard ral ork ith his ian ise del .
the ast erm is a lar - ion erm hat nts for the ior nce in the den tes ven the uts . 123 hen we ake ves of his ost ion , we do not ate x and ith ect to c and r .
as is ual for the em thm , we ate the ost ven the ior ion of the den les .
ing ves ith ect to c and ing by r , we ain a ght nge ule ,
c ( y cx ) xt c .
the rst erm is the ual lta ule .
the ond erm is ply a ght - cay erm ing the mns of c ith ect to the ior co - nce of the den les .
ely , the her the nty in a den nit , the ore its ing ght tor is unk ard ero .
to ize , tor sis can be ted in an tor by ty - ing the ion hts to the ive hts and ing a lar zer in ion to red ion ror ing ing .
we now yze the ure of ans del in the ame ner .
the ion ork is ant to uce the ean of the den ble ven the uts .
nce we ume hat the ete den ble is pre - ted as a nit tor , its ean is ust the tor of ies of ing in ach of its k ngs ven the uts , hat is , the ies .
ing ual ing nts , p ( x = ej ) = p ( x = ei ) ij , the ies
den tes has ero nce ( 123 ) and the zer hes ( ctr
123 pca mes mal ise , and ore the ior ion ver the
a ing iew of ear ian els
ned in ion 23b are
( x ) j = p ( x = j|y ) =
123 exp ( 123 123 exp ( iy i ) , 123 and j = 123
( y ci ) 123 ( y ci ) )
ion 23b ere we ave ned j bes a ion del hat is ear wed by the max lin - ity , , ten in ull rix ion : x = ( y ) .
in her rds , a ple ork uld do act nce ith ear put to den hts and max den its .
ing ain to the em thm , we ain a ost ion hat hen zed by an tor ill ent the ure of ans . 123 the log ity of the ata ven the den les can be ten as 123 ( y cx ) + |r| + nst .
123 log p ( y|x , c , r ) = ( y cx ) tr
c = ( y cx ) tr
ing his and the ous ion , we ain the ost ion ,
123 ( y cx ) + |r| + ace ( ctr
ere = ( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( cid : 123 ) t .
the ond - der erm , ( cid : 123 ) xxt ( cid : 123 ) , tes to a rix ith x ong its nal and ero ere .
ike in tor sis , now nds on the put .
to ize , the ure of ans del can lso be ted ing an tor .
the ion art of the ork is ear , fol - wed by a max ity .
the ost ion is the ual red er - ror zed by a zer of tly the ame orm as in tor sis .
lar ork ons can be ned for the her tic
123 nts and ons
ere are ral ges , oth cal and cal , to a ied ent of the sed ods wed ere .
rom a cal int , the ent zes hat all of the ues for fer - nce in the ous els are lly the ame and ust ond to ity ion in the lar del ion .
rly , all the ing res are ing ore han an ion of the em
123 our ion mes ied nce and ual ing nts .
tly ore
lex ons ult for the ral ase .
sam eis and bin ani
thm to ase the tal ood of the ved ata ely .
ore , the gin of ero - ise - mit hms uch as tor uan - ion and pca is asy to see .
a ied ent lso hts the hip een lar ons oss the ent els .
for ex - ple , ing the ber of ers in a ure del or ate ion in a cal tem or the ber of ors or pal nts in a nce del or the ber of tes in an hmm are all lly the
rom a cal int , a ied iew of ese els ows us to ply ell - own ons to ard ems in one rea to lar rob - ems in her .
for ple , in his ork it is ous how to eal rly ith ing ata in ing oth the ing and nce rob - ems .
his pic has een ell ood for any tic els ( tle & bin , 23; esp , mad , & ier , 23; ani & dan , 123 ) but is lly not ell sed in the ear cal ems ure .
as her ple , it is asy to ign and ork ith els ing a xed ous - and ete - ate tor , ( for ple , den ter mms ( ser & dis , 123 ) , ich is ing not tly sed by the ual res on ete or ous els .
her cal age is the ase ith ich ral ons to the sic els can be ped .
for ple , ing the chi - cal ure - of - rts ism ped by dan and obs ( 123 ) we can der bal res of any of the del nts sed .
in act , ost of ese res ave ady een red : res of ear cal ems are own as ing ate - ace els ( see way & fer , 23; ani & ton , 23b ) ; res of tor ers ( ani and ton , 123 ) and of kes ( pca ) ( hin - ton et al . , 123 ) ; and res of mms ( yth , 123 ) .
a ure of m of our ned res of ans ach ith k ers ves a ure del ith mk nts in ich ere are nly m ble nce ces .
his ied nce ach is lar in ech ing to uce the ber of ree ers .
( for k = 123 , his nds to a ull ned ure of ans del ith m ers . )
it is lso ble to der cal res in ich the nal is no ger a gle ian but a ore ted ity uch as a ure of ans .
for our ( ned ) ure of ans del , his is her way to get a ull ure .
for mms , his is a ell - own ion and is lly the ard ach for ion ity ing ( ner & ang , 123 ) .
it is ven ble to use ned ure els as the put ity del for an hmm ( see , for ple , aul & him , 123 , ich ses tor sis as the hmm put ity ) .
ver , we are not are of any ork hat ers his ion in the ous - ate ses , for her tic or mic ata .
her ant ral ion is lly ive ion ise .
the dea ere is hat the ion ise v can ave ent tis -
a ing iew of ear ian els
ics in ent rts of ( ate or ion ) ace her han ing de - bed by a gle rix r .
for ete - ure els , his dea is ell own , and it is ved by ing ach ure ent a ate ise del .
ver , for ous - ate els , his dea is ely nex - red and is an ing rea for her ion .
the rux of the lem is how to ize a ive ite rix ver ome ace .
we ose ome ple ays to eve his .
one ity is ing the gle nce ape q for the ion ise ith a 123 lin - ear ing of k sis nce pes .
in the ase of ear cal ems or tor sis , his nts to a vel ype of del in ich the cal nce rix r is ted as a nic ear ion of ral cal nce ces ugh a sor uct een the ent ate tor x ( or tly the ess ion cx ) and a ter ise orr . 123 her ach uld be to rop the nic ion ( low ral ear ons ) and hen add a ple of the ity rix to the ing ise rix in der to ake it ive ite .
a ird ach is to ent the nce ape as the com - ion of an tic ere due to a lly ing rce eld .
his rep - ion is ier to ork ith use the ion of the eld is ned , but it is ard to arn the cal eld rom nts of the ive nce ape .
hop ( 123 , sec .
123 ) and ers ave red ple ric ods for ing put - ent ise els in ion ems .
erg , ams , and hop ( 123 ) ave red his dea in the ext of ian ses .
it is lso ing to der hat ens to the mic els hen the put ise nds to ero .
in her rds , hat are the mic ogs of pca and tor ion ? for oth ear cal ems and mms , his ses the ate to no ger be den .
in ear cal ems , the mal ion rix is hen und by ing pca on the ata and ing the pal nts as the mns of c; for mms , c is und by tor ion of the ata ( ing the ook ors as the mns of c ) .
ven ese ion ces , the ate is no ger den .
all hat ins is to ify a rst - der kov ics in ate - ace : his is a ple ar ( 123 ) del in the ous ase or a rst - der kov ain in the ete ase .
uch ero - ise its are not nly ing els in eir own ght , but are lso ble as ood ces for ion of ing in ear cal ems and mms .
123 a nic ear ion is one in ich all the nts are ive .
123 for res of ans or den kov els , his ind of ear end - ing ely cts the jth rix of the sor if the ete ate is ej .
his is yet her way to ver the nal ull or ned ure of ans or den kov del ion ity in ich ach ter or ate has its own ate nce ape for ion ise .
sam eis and bin ani
in his dix we iew in ail the nce and ing hms for ach of the els .
the oal is to ble ers to ent ese hms rom the ode ded .
for ach ass of del , we rst ent the ion to the nce lem , and hen the em thm for ing the del ers .
for his dix nly , we opt the , not xt .
we ion hat the ose of a tor or rix is ten as x use t ead of to ote the gth of a ime ies .
we lso ene the ary tor ( cid : 123 ) to be the ent - ise uct of two ual - ize ors or ces .
nts gin ith the bol % .
a . 123 tor sis , pca , and pca .
a . 123 nce .
for tor sis and ted els , the ior ity of the den ate ven the ons , p ( x|y ) , is aus - ian .
the nce lem ore sts of ing the ean and nce of his ian , x and v = cov ( x ) :
( cid : 123 ) + r ) 123
v i c urn x , v nce the ion ise rix r is med to be nal and x is of ler ion han y , can be ore tly ted ing the rix ion mma : i c ( i + c
ing the ( log ) ood of an ion is ing ore han an
ion der the ian n ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) + r
the ble pca ( pca ) thm is a ial ase of tor sis in ich the ion ise is med to be lly ric : r = i .
nce in pca is ore cal to nce for tor sis .
the nal pca thm can be ned as a ing ase of tor sis : r = 123 i .
the rse sed for ing in tor sis is no ger ell ned .
ver , the mit of is ell ned : = .
lso , the ior ses to a gle int , so v = cov ( x ) = i c = 123
nce ( y , c ) % ion nto pal nts
a ing iew of ear ian els
a . 123 ing .
the em thm for ing the ers of a fac - tor zer ith k ors rom a ero - ean ata set y = ( 123 , .
, yn ) ( ach umn of the p n rix y is a ata int ) is
ize c , r ute ple nce s of y ile nge in log ood >
% e tep x , v nce ( y , c , r ) ( cid : 123 ) + nv % m tep set nal nts of r to rii ( s c
urn c , r
ere nce ( y , c , r ) has the ous pre - ion of the nce ion ied to the ire rix of ons .
nce and v do not end on y , his can be ted tly in rix orm .
nce the ata ear nly in ter cts , we can run fac - tor sis ing ith ust the ple nce .
ote lso hat the ( cid : 123 ) + r| + nst .
log - ood is ted as 123 the em thm for pca is cal to the em thm for tor sis , ept hat nce the ion ise nce is lly
cal , the m - tep for r is ged to r i , ere ( cid : 123 ) p
( cid : 123 ) + r ) 23y + n
the em thm for pca can be ned in a lar ner :
ile nge in red ion ror >
% e tep % m tep
sam eis and bin ani
nce pca is not a ity del ( it mes ero ise ) , the eli - ood is ned , so nce is sed by ing the red
a . 123 res of ans and tor ion .
a . 123 nce .
we gin by ing the nce lem for mix - res of ans and hen uss the nce lem in tor nti - ion as a ing ase .
the den ble in a ure of ans is a ete ble hat can ake on one of k ues .
we ent his ble ing a tor x of gth k , ere ach ing of the den ble cor - nds to x ing a lue of ity in one ion and ero ere .
the ity ion of the ete den ble , ich has k 123 ees of dom ( nce it ust sum to one ) , is lly bed by the ean of x .
ore , the nce lem is ted to ing the ior ean of x ven a ata int y and the del ers , ich are ( the ior ean of x ) , c ( the rix ose k mns are the ans of y ven ach of the k ngs of x ) and r ( the ion ise nce
nce ( y , c , r , ) % ute for i = 123 to k i ( y ci ) ( cid : 123 )
a ure of the ess of the den ate can be ned by ing the opy of the ete ion ing to x .
ard vq nds to the ing ase r = 123 i and ual ors i = 123 / k .
nce in his ase is med by the ell own
nce ( y , c ) % 123 - est - bor for i = 123 to k
i ( y ci ) ( cid : 123 ) ( y ci ) ndx ej for j = arg min i
a ing iew of ear ian els
as ore , ej is the nit tor ong the jth ate ion .
the red ces i can be zed to a bis ric ith ect to ome rix r , and orm ors i can ily be ted .
as was the ase ith pca , the ior ion has ero opy .
a . 123 ing .
the em thm for ing the ers of a mix -
ure of ian is :
arn ( y , k , ) % ml oft ive ing
ize c , r , ile nge in log ood > ize 123 , 123 , 123 % e tep for i = 123 to n
% m tep for j = 123 to k for i = 123 to n
+ xij ( yi cj ) ( yi cj ) ( cid : 123 )
urn c , r ,
we ave med a mon nce rix r for all the ns; the ion to ent ces for ach ian is ard .
the k - ans tor ion ing thm lts hen we
ake the ate mit of the ove thm :
arn ( y , k , ) % k - ans
ile nge in red ion ror >
% e tep ize 123 , 123 for i = 123 to n
sam eis and bin ani
% m tep for j = 123 to k
a . 123 ear cal ems .
nce in a ear cal tem ves com - ing the ior ons of the den ate les ven the nce of ons .
as in tor sis , all the den ate les are med ian and are ore lly bed by eir ans and nce ces .
the thm for ing the ior ans and ces sts of two rts : a ard ion , ich ses the ob - ons rom 123 to yt , own as the man ter ( man , 123 ) , and a ard ion , ich ses the ons rom yt to 123 ( uch , 123 ) .
the ned ard and ard ons are own as the man or uch - ung - bel ( rts ) her .
t and vs
to ibe the ing thm it ill be ful to ene the low - ing ies : xs t are , ely , the ean and nce rix of xt ven ons ( 123 , .
ys ) ; xt xt t are the ull her tes .
to arn the a rix ing em , it is lso ary to ute the nce oss ime een xt and 123 :
t and vt vt
for t = 123 to t % man ter ( ard ass )
123 ) % man her
ize vt , 123 = ( i ktc ) 123 for t = t to 123 % uch ons ( ard ass )
+ 123 ( xt 123 + 123 ( vt 123 + jt ( 123 , t avt 123 if t < t
123 if t > 123 ( cid : 123 ) + q if t > 123 ( cid : 123 ) + r ) 123 + kt ( yt 123
a ing iew of ear ian els
urn xt , vt , vt , 123 for all t
a . 123 ing .
the em thm for ing a ear cal sys - tem ( way & fer , 23; ani & ton , 23a ) is ven low , ing for ity hat we ave nly a gle nce of ons :
ize a , c , q , r , 123
ile nge in log ood > ize 123 , 123 , 123 for t = 123 to t + vt , 123 if t > 123
123 ) % e tep
% m tep r ( c
urn a , c , q , r , 123
a . 123 den kov els .
a . 123 nce .
the ard - ard thm tes the ste - ior ies of the den tes in an hmm and ore rms the sis of the nce red for em .
we use the ing ard de -
t = p ( xt , 123 ,
= p ( 123 , .
, |xt ) ,
sam eis and bin ani
ere oth and are ors of the ame gth as x .
we ent the ase ere the ons yt are eal - ued p - nal ors and the ity ity of an ion ven the ing ate ( the put del ) is med to be a gle ian ith ean cxt and nce r .
the ers of the del are ore a k k ion rix t , ial ate ior ity tor , an ion ean rix c , and an ion ise rix r hat is ied oss tes :
nce ( y , t , , c , r ) % ard thm for t = 123 to t % ard ass
( cid : 123 ) 123 / 123 ( 123 ) p / 123
for i = 123 to k
if ( t = 123 ) t ( cid : 123 ) 123 lse t ( t
for t = t 123 to 123 % ard ass
123 ) ( cid : 123 ) bt end
t ( cid : 123 ) t
urn t , t , t for all t
the ons of and in ons a . 23a and a . 23b ond to ing the ove thm out the ing ors t .
ese ors , ver , are ial to the cal ity of the hm; ise , for ong ces , oth and ome gly all .
ore , rom the s we can ute the log - ood of the nce
log p ( 123 , .
, yt ) = t ( cid : 123 )
ich is why it is ful for the ove ion to urn hem .
a . 123 ing .
ain , we ume for ity hat we ave a gle nce of ons rom ich we ish to arn the ers of an hmm .
the em thm for ing ese ers , own as the
a ing iew of ear ian els
aum - lch thm , is :
arn ( y , k , ) % aum - lch
ize t , , c , r ile nge in log ood > nce ( y , t , , c , r ) % e tep % m tep
( cid : 123 ) ti ( cid : 123 ) for all i , j t t , j for all j ( yt cj ) ( yt cj ) ( cid : 123 ) / t
urn t , , c , r
we ank los ody , joy jan , and rik ree for any ful ons in the rly ges , the ous ees for ful com - nts , and rey ton and ohn eld for ing ing ual nts and nce .
was ted in art by the ter for hic ems ing as a art of the nal sci - nce ion ing rch ter ram der ant eec - 123 and by the ral ces and ing rch cil of ada der an erc 123 ard .
was ted by the rio ion ogy rch tre .
