Abstract

Inspired by Google Sets, we consider the problem of retrieving items
from a concept or cluster, given a query consisting of a few items from
that cluster. We formulate this as a Bayesian inference problem and de-
scribe a very simple algorithm for solving it. Our algorithm uses a model-
based concept of a cluster and ranks items using a score which evaluates
the marginal probability that each item belongs to a cluster containing
the query items. For exponential family models with conjugate priors
this marginal probability is a simple function of sufcient statistics. We
focus on sparse binary data and show that our score can be evaluated ex-
actly using a single sparse matrix multiplication, making it possible to
apply our algorithm to very large datasets. We evaluate our algorithm on
three datasets: retrieving movies from EachMovie, nding completions
of author sets from the NIPS dataset, and nding completions of sets of
words appearing in the Grolier encyclopedia. We compare to Google
Sets and show that Bayesian Sets gives very reasonable set completions.

1

Introduction

What do Jesus and Darwin have in common? Other than being associated with two
different views on the origin of man, they also have colleges at Cambridge Univer-
sity named after them.
If these two names are entered as a query into Google Sets
(http://labs.google.com/sets) it returns a list of other colleges at Cambridge.
Google Sets is a remarkably useful tool which encapsulates a very practical and interest-
ing problem in machine learning and information retrieval.1 Consider a universe of items
D. Depending on the application, the set D may consist of web pages, movies, people,
words, proteins, images, or any other object we may wish to form queries on. The user
provides a query in the form of a very small subset of items Dc  D. The assumption
is that the elements in Dc are examples of some concept / class / cluster in the data. The
algorithm then has to provide a completion to the set Dcthat is, some set D0
c  D which
presumably includes all the elements in Dc and other elements in D which are also in this
concept / class / cluster2.

ZG is also at CALD, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
1Google Sets is a large-scale clustering algorithm that uses many millions of data instances
extracted from web data (Simon Tong, personal communication). We are unable to describe any
details of how the algorithm works due its proprietary nature.

2From here on, we will use the term cluster to refer to the target concept.

We can view this problem from several perspectives. First, the query can be interpreted
as elements of some unknown cluster, and the output of the algorithm is the completion
of that cluster. Whereas most clustering algorithms are completely unsupervised, here the
query provides supervised hints or constraints as to the membership of a particular cluster.
We call this view clustering on demand, since it involves forming a cluster once some
elements of that cluster have been revealed. An important advantage of this approach over
traditional clustering is that the few elements in the query can give useful information as
to the features which are relevant for forming the cluster. For example, the query Bush,
Nixon, Reagan suggests that the features republican and US President are relevant to
the cluster, while the query Bush, Putin, Blair suggests that current and world leader
are relevant. Given the huge number of features in many real world data sets, such hints as
to feature relevance can produce much more sensible clusters.
Second, we can think of the goal of the algorithm to be to solve a particular information re-
trieval problem [2, 3, 4]. As in other retrieval problems, the output should be relevant to the
query, and it makes sense to limit the output to the top few items ranked by relevance to the
query. In our experiments, we take this approach and report items ranked by relevance. Our
relevance criterion is closely related to a Bayesian framework for understanding patterns of
generalization in human cognition [5].

2 Bayesian Sets
Let D be a data set of items, and x  D be an item from this set. Assume the user provides
a query set Dc which is a small subset of D. Our goal is to rank the elements of D by how
well they would t into a set which includes Dc. Intuitively, the task is clear: if the set
D is the set of all movies, and the query set consists of two animated Disney movies, we
expect other animated Disney movies to be ranked highly.
We use a model-based probabilistic criterion to measure how well items t into Dc. Having
observed Dc as belonging to some concept, we want to know how probable it is that x also
belongs with Dc. This is measured by p(x|Dc). Ranking items simply by this probability
is not sensible since some items may be more probable than others, regardless of Dc. For
example, under most sensible models, the probability of a string decreases with the number
of characters, the probability of an image decreases with the number of pixels, and the
probability of any continuous variable decreases with the precision to which it is measured.
We want to remove these effects, so we compute the ratio:

score(x) = p(x|Dc)
p(x)

(1)

where the denominator is the prior probability of x and under most sensible models will
scale exactly correctly with number of pixels, characters, discretization level, etc. Using
Bayes rule, this score can be re-written as:

score(x) = p(x,Dc)
p(x) p(Dc)

(2)
which can be interpreted as the ratio of the joint probability of observing x and Dc, to the
probability of independently observing x and Dc. Intuitively, this ratio compares the prob-
ability that x and Dc were generated by the same model with the same, though unknown,
parameters , to the probability that x and Dc came from models with different parameters
 and 0 (see gure 1). Finally, up to a multiplicative constant independent of x, the score
can be written as: score(x) = p(Dc|x), which is the probability of observing the query set
given x (i.e. the likelihood of x).
From the above discussion, it is still not clear how one would compute quantities such
as p(x|Dc) and p(x). A natural model-based way of dening a cluster is to assume that

Figure 1: Our Bayesian score compares the hypotheses that the data was generated by each of the
above graphical models.

the data points in the cluster all come independently and identically distributed from some
simple parameterized statistical model. Assume that the parameterized model is p(x|)
where  are the parameters. If the data points in Dc all belong to one cluster, then under
this denition they were generated from the same setting of the parameters; however, that
setting is unknown, so we need to average over possible parameter values weighted by
some prior density on parameter values, p(). Using these considerations and the basic
rules of probability we arrive at:

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

p(x) =
p(Dc) =

Z
Z Y
Z

p(x|) p() d

p(xi|) p() d

xiDc
p(x|) p(|Dc) d

p(x|Dc) =
p(|Dc) = p(Dc|) p()

p(Dc)

We are now fully equipped to describe the Bayesian Sets algorithm:

Bayesian Sets Algorithm

x  D, a prior on the model parameters p()

background: a set of items D, a probabilistic model p(x|) where
input: a query Dc = {xi}  D
for all x  D do

compute

score(x) = p(x|Dc)
p(x)

end for
output: return elements of D sorted by decreasing score

We mention two properties of this algorithm to assuage two common worries with Bayesian
methodstractability and sensitivity to priors:

1. For the simple models we will consider, the integrals (3)-(5) are analytical. In fact,
for the model we consider in section 3 computing all the scores can be reduced to
a single sparse matrix multiplication.

2. Although it clearly makes sense to put some thought into choosing sensible mod-
els p(x|) and priors p(), we will show in 5 that even with very simple models
and almost no tuning of the prior one can get very competitive retrieval results. In
practice, we use a simple empirical heuristic which sets the prior to be vague but
centered on the mean of the data in D.

3 Sparse Binary Data

We now derive in more detail the application of the Bayesian Sets algorithm to sparse
binary data. This type of data is a very natural representation for the large datasets we used
in our evaluations (section 5). Applications of Bayesian Sets to other forms of data (real-
valued, discrete, ordinal, strings) are also possible, and especially practical if the statistical
model is a member of the exponential family (section 4).
Assume each item xi  Dc is a binary vector xi = (xi1, . . . , xiJ) where xij  {0, 1}, and
that each element of xi has an independent Bernoulli distribution:

p(xi|) =

(1  j)1xij

xij
j

(7)

JY

j=1

JY

j=1

The conjugate prior for the parameters of a Bernoulli distribution is the Beta distribution:

p(|, ) =

(j + j)
(j)(j) j1

j

(1  j)j1

(8)

where  and  are hyperparameters, and the Gamma function is a generalization of the
factorial function. For a query Dc = {xi} consisting of N vectors it is easy to show that:

p(Dc|, ) =Y
i=1 xij and j = j + N PN

(j + j)
(j)(j)

j

where j = j +PN

(j)( j)
(j + j)

(9)

i=1 xij. For an item x = (x1 . . . xJ)

the score, written with the hyperparameters explicit, can be computed as follows:
( j +xj )( j +1xj )

(j +j +N )

score(x) = p(x|Dc, , )
p(x|, )

=Y

j

(j +j +N +1)

(j +j )

(j +j +1)

( j )( j )

(j +xj )(j +1xj )

(j )(j )

(10)

This daunting expression can be dramatically simplied. We use the fact that (x) =
(x  1) (x  1) for x > 1. For each j we can consider the two cases xj = 0 and xj = 1
and separately. For xj = 1 we have a contribution
. For xj = 0 we have a
contribution j +j

. Putting these together we get:

j +j +N

j +j

j
j

j +j +N

j
j

score(x) =Y

!1xj

j + j

(cid:18) j
log score(x) = c +X

j + j + N

j

(cid:19)xj  j

j

qjxj

j
The log of the score is linear in x:

where

c =X

j

log(j + j)  log(j + j + N) + log j  log j

j

(11)

(12)

(13)

and
(14)
If we put the entire data set D into one large matrix X with J columns, we can compute
the vector s of log scores for all points using a single matrix vector multiplication

qj = log j  log j  log j + log j

(15)
For sparse data sets this linear operation can be implemented very efciently. Each query
Dc corresponds to computing the vector q and scalar c. This can also be done efciently if
the query is also sparse, since most elements of q will equal log j  log(j + N) which
is independent of the query.

s = c + Xq

4 Exponential Families

We generalize the above result to models in the exponential family. The distribution for
such models can be written in the form p(x|) = f(x)g() exp{>u(x)}, where u(x) is a
K-dimensional vector of sufcient statistics,  are the natural parameters, and f and g are
non-negative functions. The conjugate prior is p(|, ) = h(, )g() exp{>}, where
 and  are hyperparameters, and h normalizes the distribution.
Given a query Dc = {xi} with N items, and a candidate x, it is not hard to show that the
score for the candidate is:

score(x) = h( + 1,  + u(x)) h( + N,  +P
h(, ) h( + N + 1,  + u(x) +P

i u(xi))
i u(xi))

(16)

This expression helps us understand when the score can be computed efciently. First of
all, the score only depends on the size of the query (N), the sufcient statistics computed
from each candidate, and from the whole query. It therefore makes sense to precompute U,
a matrix of sufcient statistics corresponding to X. Second, whether the score is a linear
operation on U depends on whether log h is linear in the second argument. This is the case
for the Bernoulli distribution, but not for all exponential family distributions. However,
for many distributions, such as diagonal covariance Gaussians, even though the score is
nonlinear in U, it can be computed by applying the nonlinearity elementwise to U. For
sparse matrices, the score can therefore still be computed in time linear in the number of
non-zero elements of U.

5 Results

We ran our Bayesian Sets algorithm on three different datasets:
the Groliers Encyclo-
pedia dataset, consisting of the text of the articles in the Encyclopedia, the EachMovie
dataset, consisting of movie ratings by users of the EachMovie service, and the NIPS au-
thors dataset, consisting of the text of articles published in NIPS volumes 0-12 (spanning
the 1987-1999 conferences). The Groliers dataset is 30991 articles by 15276 words, where
the entries are the number of times each word appears in each document. We preprocess
(binarize) the data by column normalizing each word, and then thresholding so that a (ar-
ticle,word) entry is 1 if that word has a frequency of more than twice the article mean.
We do essentially no tuning of the hyperparameters. We use broad empirical priors, where
 = cm,  = c  (1m) where m is a mean vector over all articles, and c = 2. The
analogous priors are used for both other datasets.
The EachMovie dataset was preprocessed, rst by removing movies rated by less than 15
people, and people who rated less than 200 movies. Then the dataset was binarized so that a
(person, movie) entry had value 1 if the person gave the movie a rating above 3 stars (from
a possible 0-5 stars). The data was then column normalized to account for overall movie
popularity. The size of the dataset after preprocessing was 1813 people by 1532 movies.

Finally the NIPS author dataset (13649 words by 2037 authors), was preprocessed very
similarly to the Grolier dataset. It was binarized by column normalizing each author, and
then thresholding so that a (word,author) entry is 1 if the author uses that word more fre-
quently than twice the word mean across all authors.
The results of our experiments, and comparisons with Google Sets for word and movie
queries are given in tables 2 and 3. Unfortunately, NIPS authors have not yet achieved the
kind of popularity on the web necessary for Google Sets to work effectively. Instead we
list the top words associated with the cluster of authors given by our algorithm (table 4).
The running times of our algorithm on all three datasets are given in table 1. All experi-
ments were run in Matlab on a 2GHz Pentium 4, Toshiba laptop. Our algorithm is very fast
both at pre-processing the data, and answering queries (about 1 sec per query).

SIZE

NON-ZERO ELEMENTS

PREPROCESS TIME

QUERY TIME

GROLIERS

30991  15276

EACHMOVIE
1813  1532

NIPS

13649  2037

2,363,514

6.1S
1.1S

517,709
0.56S
0.34S

933,295
3.22S
0.47S

Table 1: For each dataset we give the size of that dataset along with the time taken to do the (one-
time) preprocessing and the time taken to make a query (both in seconds).

QUERY: WARRIOR, SOLDIER
BAYES SETS

GOOGLE SETS

QUERY: ANIMAL

GOOGLE SETS

BAYES SETS

QUERY: FISH, WATER, CORAL
GOOGLE SETS

BAYES SETS

WARRIOR
SOLDIER

SPY

ENGINEER

MEDIC
SNIPER

DEMOMAN

PYRO
SCOUT

PYROMANIAC

HWGUY

SOLDIER
WARRIOR

MERCENARY

CAVALRY
BRIGADE

COMMANDING

SAMURAI
BRIGADIER
INFANTRY
COLONEL

SHOGUNATE

ANIMAL
PLANT
FREE
LEGAL
FUNGAL
HUMAN

ANIMAL
ANIMALS

PLANT
HUMANS

FOOD

SPECIES

HYSTERIA
VEGETABLE

MINERAL

INDETERMINATE

FOZZIE BEAR

MAMMALS

AGO

ORGANISMS
VEGETATION

PLANTS

FISH

WATER
CORAL

AGRICULTURE

FOREST

RICE

SILK ROAD
RELIGION

HISTORY POLITICS

DESERT

ARTS

WATER

FISH

SURFACE
SPECIES
WATERS
MARINE

FOOD

TEMPERATURE

OCEAN

SHALLOW

FT

Table 2: Clusters of words found by Google Sets and Bayesian Sets based on the given queries.
The top few are shown for each query and each algorithm. Bayesian Sets was run using Grolier
Encyclopedia data.

It is very difcult to objectively evaluate our results since there is no ground truth for this
task. One persons idea of a good query cluster may differ drastically from another persons.
We chose to compare our algorithm to Google Sets since it was our main inspiration and it
is currently the most public and commonly used algorithm for performing this task.
Since we do not have access to the Google Sets algorithm it was impossible for us to run
their method on our datasets. Moreover, Google Sets relies on vast amounts of web data,
which we do not have. Despite those two important caveats, Google Sets clearly knows
a lot about movies3 and words, and the comparison to Bayesian Sets is informative.
We found that Google Sets performed very well when the query consisted of items which
can be found listed on the web (e.g. Cambridge colleges). On the other hand, for more
abstract concepts (e.g. soldier and warrior, see Table 2) our algorithm returned more
sensible completions.
While we believe that most of our results are self-explanatory, there are a few details that we
would like to elaborate on. The top query in table 3 consists of two classic romantic movies,

3In fact, one of the example queries on the Google Sets website is a query of movie titles.

QUERY: GONE WITH THE WIND, CASABLANCA

GOOGLE SETS

BAYES SETS

CASABLANCA (1942)

GONE WITH THE WIND (1939)

ERNEST SAVES CHRISTMAS (1988)

CITIZEN KANE (1941)
PET DETECTIVE (1994)

VACATION (1983)

WIZARD OF OZ (1939)
THE GODFATHER (1972)

LAWRENCE OF ARABIA (1962)
ON THE WATERFRONT (1954)
QUERY: MARY POPPINS, TOY STORY

GONE WITH THE WIND (1939)

CASABLANCA (1942)

THE AFRICAN QUEEN (1951)

THE PHILADELPHIA STORY (1940)

MY FAIR LADY (1964)

THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD (1938)

THE MALTESE FALCON (1941)

REBECCA (1940)

SINGING IN THE RAIN (1952)

IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT (1934)

QUERY: CUTTHROAT ISLAND, LAST ACTION HERO

GOOGLE SETS

TOY STORY

MARY POPPINS
TOY STORY 2
MOULIN ROUGE

THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS

BAYES SETS
MARY POPPINS

TOY STORY

WINNIE THE POOH

CINDERELLA
THE LOVE BUG

GOOGLE SETS

LAST ACTION HERO
CUTTHROAT ISLAND

GIRL

END OF DAYS

HOOK

PRESQUE RIEN

BEDKNOBS AND BROOMSTICKS

THE COLOR OF NIGHT

SPACED

BUT IM A CHEERLEADER

MULAN

DAVY CROCKETT
THE PARENT TRAP

DUMBO

WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT

THE SOUND OF MUSIC

CONEHEADS

ADDAMS FAMILY I
ADDAMS FAMILY II

SINGLES

BAYES SETS

CUTTHROAT ISLAND
LAST ACTION HERO

KULL THE CONQUEROR
VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN

SPRUNG

JUDGE DREDD

WILD BILL

HIGHLANDER III

VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED

FAIR GAME

Table 3: Clusters of movies found by Google Sets and Bayesian Sets based on the given queries. The
top 10 are shown for each query and each algorithm. Bayesian Sets was run using the EachMovie
dataset.

and while most of the movies returned by Bayesian Sets are also classic romances, hardly
any of the movies returned by Google Sets are romances, and it would be difcult to call
Ernest Saves Christmas either a romance or a classic. Both Cutthroat Island and Last
Action Hero are action movie ops, as are many of the movies given by our algorithm
for that query. All the Bayes Sets movies associated with the query Mary Poppins and
Toy Story are childrens movies, while 5 of Google Sets movies are not. But Im
a Cheerleader, while appearing to be a childrens movie, is actually an R rated movie
involving lesbian and gay teens.

QUERY: A.SMOLA, B.SCHOLKOPF
TOP MEMBERS
TOP WORDS

QUERY: L.SAUL, T.JAAKKOLA
TOP WORDS

TOP MEMBERS

A.SMOLA

B.SCHOLKOPF

S.MIKA
G.RATSCH

R.WILLIAMSON

K.MULLER
J.WESTON

J.SHAWE-TAYLOR

V.VAPNIK
T.ONODA

VECTOR
SUPPORT
KERNEL
PAGES

MACHINES
QUADRATIC

SOLVE

REGULARIZATION

MINIMIZING

MIN

L.SAUL

T.JAAKKOLA

M.RAHIM
M.JORDAN

N.LAWRENCE

T.JEBARA

W.WIEGERINCK

M.MEILA
S.IKEDA

D.HAUSSLER

LOG

LIKELIHOOD

MODELS
MIXTURE

CONDITIONAL
PROBABILISTIC
EXPECTATION
PARAMETERS
DISTRIBUTION
ESTIMATION

QUERY: A.NG, R.SUTTON

TOP MEMBERS

R.SUTTON

A.NG

Y.MANSOUR
B.RAVINDRAN

D.KOLLER
D.PRECUP
C.WATKINS

R.MOLL
T.PERKINS

D.MCALLESTER

TOP WORDS
DECISION

REINFORCEMENT

ACTIONS
REWARDS
REWARD

START
RETURN
RECEIVED

MDP

SELECTS

Table 4: NIPS authors found by Bayesian Sets based on the given queries. The top 10 are shown for
each query along with the top 10 words associated with that cluster of authors. Bayesian Sets was
run using NIPS data from vol 0-12 (1987-1999 conferences).

The NIPS author dataset is rather small, and co-authors of NIPS papers appear very similar
to each other. Therefore, many of the authors found by our algorithm are co-authors of a
NIPS paper with one or more of the query authors. An example where this is not the case is
Wim Wiegerinck, who we do not believe ever published a NIPS paper with Lawrence Saul
or Tommi Jaakkola, though he did have a NIPS paper on variational learning and graphical
models.

As part of the evaluation of our algorithm, we showed 30 nave subjects the unlabeled
results of Bayesian Sets and Google Sets for the queries shown from the EachMovie and
Groliers Encyclopedia datasets, and asked them to choose which they preferred. The results
of this study are given in table 5.

QUERY
WARRIOR
ANIMAL

FISH

GONE WITH THE WIND

MARY POPPINS

CUTTHROAT ISLAND

% BAYES SETS

P-VALUE

96.7
93.3
90.0
86.7
96.7
81.5

< 0.0001
< 0.0001
< 0.0001
< 0.0001
< 0.0001

0.0008

Table 5: For each evaluated query (listed by
rst query item), we give the percentage of re-
spondents who preferred the results given by
Bayesian Sets and the p-value rejecting the null
hypothesis that Google Sets is preferable to
Bayesian Sets on that particular query.

Since, in the case of binary data, our method reduces to a matrix-vector multiplication, we
also came up with ten heuristic matrix-vector methods which we ran on the same queries,
using the same datasets. Descriptions and results can be found in supplemental material on
the authors websites.
6 Conclusions
We have described an algorithm which takes a query consisting of a small set of items,
and returns additional items which belong in this set. Our algorithm computes a score
for each item by comparing the posterior probability of that item given the set, to the prior
probability of that item. These probabilities are computed with respect to a statistical model
for the data, and since the parameters of this model are unknown they are marginalized out.
For exponential family models with conjugate priors, our score can be computed exactly
and efciently. In fact, we show that for sparse binary data, scoring all items in a large
data set can be accomplished using a single sparse matrix-vector multiplication. Thus, we
get a very fast and practical Bayesian algorithm without needing to resort to approximate
inference. For example, a sparse data set with over 2 million nonzero entries (Grolier) can
be queried in just over 1 second.
Our method does well when compared to Google Sets in terms of set completions, demon-
strating that this Bayesian criterion can be useful in realistic problem domains. One of the
problems we have not yet addressed is deciding on the size of the response set. Since the
scores have a probabilistic interpretation, it should be possible to nd a suitable threshold
to these probabilities. In the future, we will incorporate such a threshold into our algorithm.
The problem of retrieving sets of items is clearly relevant to many application domains.
Our algorithm is very exible in that it can be combined with a wide variety of types of
data (e.g. sequences, images, etc.) and probabilistic models. We plan to explore efcient
implementations of some of these extensions. We believe that with even larger datasets the
Bayesian Sets algorithm will be a very useful tool for many application areas.
Acknowledgements: Thanks to Avrim Blum and Simon Tong for useful discussions, and to Sam
Roweis for some of the data. ZG was partially supported at CMU by the DARPA CALO project.
