"Fire!" yelled Jimmy and hoped that that would empty the classroom
and get him out of the test. No dice. Instead his mean old teacher gave
him her standard mean old look which meant that he'd be going to the
principal's office one more time this week. "Dang," Jimmy thought as he
looked up at the clock, "I thought for sure that'd work." But it didn't, and
it was now a certainty that Jimmy would have to take the test, a test he
knew for sure he was going to fail.
Not that failure bothered Jimmy. In fact, he didn't mind it one bit.
"How can you ever try anything new if you can't just try it out?" Jimmy
would say with cheerful exuberance, not mindful at all of the fact that his
thoughts didn't quite makes sense to all of the adults around him.
Jimmy sat and thought for a minute about what his options were. He
knew he'd have to take the test. He knew he'd fail, because he hadn't
studied, and he didn't care about geography anyway. So, he decided
that he'd try to make the best of it and spent the entire 20 minutes drawing
an elaborate picture of a rocket ship blasting off for the moon.
"Time's up," Mrs. Fitzhugh barked, "please put down your pencils and
turn your papers over." Jimmy kept on drawing, looking very serious as
he put the finishing touches on the star and "J" that graced the side of his
rocket ship. "Jimmy," said Mrs. Fitzhugh, "that means you, too." Jimmy
looked up with a grin of satisfaction. He had finished his drawing and
he thought it was a good one.
"Please pass your papers to the front," Mrs. Fitzhugh directed. Jimmy
admired his work one last time, and passed it forward. After he had
turned it in, Jimmy faintly remembered that it was supposed to be a geography
test. Mrs. Fitzhugh collected the papers from his row. She
flipped through the stack and then frowned. "Jimmy," Mrs. Fitzhugh
said in her mean old voice, "I want to see you after class."
"Dang," thought Jimmy "I must have the meanest teacher in the whole
school." He furrowed his brow in contemplation of the evils that
awaited him in that meeting. It was either going to be writing sentences
on the blackboard or staying after and cleaning up all the desks in the
classroom. Jimmy couldn't decide which was worse. In the end, he decided
that cleaning up the desks would be better. Sometimes Tommy
Pearson drew funny pictures of Mrs. Fitzhugh on his desk, and Jimmy
could at least take a peek at them before he cleaned them off.
The rest of the afternoon was slow agony for Jimmy. He tried to keep
himself busy by paying special attention to his long division problems,
but it wasn't working. It seemed like every time he looked up from his
desk, Mrs. Fitzhugh was glaring at him. "Dang," Jimmy murmured to
himself, "she's gonna tell Mom for sure."
At 2:30 the bell finally rang. Mrs. Fitzhugh stood in front of the desks
and supervised the cleanup of the day's lessons. "Put your workbooks
inside your desks children," she said , then reminded Elizabeth not to
forget her sweater like she did yesterday. Jimmy thought she had forgotten
about him, but then she looked straight at him.
"Jimmy Peterson, you stay here." Her voice was loud enough for all
the kids to hear. "The rest of you may go home now."
Mrs. Fitzhugh waited until the room was empty then told Jimmy to
come to her desk. "Just what am I supposed to do with you young
man?" she asked. "You are just about the laziest, slowest boy I've ever
laid eyes on." Jimmy looked down at the floor tiles. He began to imagine
playing a giant checkers game, with him as a red piece. The loud
voice of Mrs. Fitzhugh tore him away from his little daydream. "You
listen to me when I talk to you Jimmy Peterson," Mrs. Fitzhugh fairly
screamed.
Jimmy looked her in the eye. Then he pointed one finger at her and
stamped his left foot three times. Mrs. Fitzhugh started out from behind
her desk. She had had enough, and was going to grab Jimmy's ear and
give it a good twist. Just before she could get to him, Jimmy closed his
eyes and recited his magic words: "Shalumum, balamum, bipsumum,
palamum."
When Jimmy opened his eyes, Mrs. Fitzhugh was standing there with
the meanest old look ever. Then she turned and scurried off into a gap
between the bookshelves. Jimmy had to giggle, because even as a
mouse, she still looked a little like Mrs. Fitzhugh. "Dang," thought
Jimmy. "I was hoping for a rabbit." "Oh well," he said to himself as he
walked out the door, "how can you ever try anything new if you can't
just try it out?"

