It was her snoring that woke him. A gravely, deep, rasping snore, followed
by a rushing wind of exhalation, followed by a slight smacking of
lips as the process prepared to repeat itself. Harry looked at the glowing
orange face of his alarm clock and tried to focus his eyes. It read 12:45.
“At least she’s consistent,” he thought, and started to yawn when he
heard her mumbling.
“Wahto. Mmm. Nomm.”
Without turning over, Harry reached over and shook her shoulder.
“Gladys. Wake up. You’re dreaming,” he said, more to the pillow
than to his wife.
“Mmm hmmm,” Gladys mumbled and rolled over on her side, taking
most of the covers with her.
Harry sighed and looked at the clock again. 12:47. He had to get
up for work at six. She began to mumble again.
“Tanto. Biscay. Earm.”
“Gladys,” Harry said with some exasperation. “Gladys, stop
mumbling and go to sleep.”
She wheezed something else, then started to snore again. Harry shut
his eyes tightly and pulled the pillow over his head. It was going to be a
long night.
When the alarm clock buzzed at six o’clock, Harry fumbled in the dark
to turn it off. Gladys did not stir. “At least she’s quiet,” Harry thought.
He lay there in the dark for a moment, then sat up, carefully pulled back
the covers, and got out of bed.
He was dressed and eating his Danish in the kitchen by the time she
began stirring in the bedroom. He heard a wet cough, then smelled the
smoke from her morning cigarette.
“You’re still here?” Gladys said out of the side of her mouth as she
walked into the kitchen. Her nightgown had a coffee stain on it.
“And good morning to you too,” Harry replied and went back to his
Danish.
Gladys poured herself a cup of coffee and stood by the sink. She took
a slow drag from her cigarette and exhaled.
“You were talking in your sleep again last night,” Harry said. “Did
you have a bad dream?”
“Was I?” she asked. “I don’t remember.”
“I couldn’t understand what you were saying, but it sounded like you
were talking to someone.” He dunked his Danish in his coffee and took
a bite.
“Well, I wasn’t.” She took another slow drag from her cigarette.
Harry hoped she would flick off the long ash before it fell onto the floor.
“When are you coming home tonight?”
“I’ll be a little late again,” Harry said. “Bob and I have to finish running
through the numbers on the project.”
She flicked her ashes into the sink.
“You’re going to have to get your own dinner. Ruby and I are going
bowling.”
Harry knew what that meant. Gladys would stumble home at two in
the morning, sloppy drunk. Another night’s sleep shot to hell.
“What’s the matter, Harry?” Gladys asked, and lit another cigarette.
“You forget how to cook?”
“No,” he said to his coffee cup. “I’m sure I’ll figure out something.”
“Damn right you will. And don’t go leaving the dishes in the dishwasher
for me to put away tomorrow, either.”
Harry finished his Danish and made a show of looking at his watch.
“I’ve got to go,” he said, and stood up and put his cup on the counter
next to the sink. “We’ll see you tonight,” he said, and grabbed his
briefcase. Gladys exhaled a long stream of smoke from the side of her
mouth.
“We’ll see you tonight Gladys,” he said again, more to himself, and
walked out the door.
Harry thought that the drive to work went more quickly than normal.
He almost drove past the life-sized bronze satellite that marked the main
entrance to the parking lot. Even after 14 years with the company, Harry
still didn’t know much about satellites and telecommunications. But, he
did know they were expensive. And that made accountants like him almost
as important as the scientists and engineers. The thought made
him smile.
Harry found Bob working on Mr. Pearson’s travel receipts. The exertion
had caused a slight sheen of perspiration to form on Bob’s balding
head.
“Morning Bob,” Harry said and placed a thick folder on his desk.
“That’s the initial budgeting work on Project Marconi.”
“Shhh!” Bob said, then looked around to see who was listening.
He put the file in his top desk drawer without opening it.
“Well, aren’t you even going to look at it?” Harry asked.
Bob replied in a low voice. “Orders from Mr. Pearson. The boys in
R and D are really onto something this time.”
“I read the project description,” Harry said in an even lower voice
than Bob’s. “Do you think there’s anything to it? I mean, do you think
they really heard something?”
Bob suddenly sat up and began to straighten out some papers on his
desk. Harry took the hint and picked up his briefcase. The morning
work teams were beginning to filter in.
“Uh, do you still want to go over those figures?” Harry asked. Bob
pointed to a note on his calendar that said “5 p.m., conference room.”
Harry nodded and walked down the hall to his own office.
At 5 p.m., Mr. Pearson introduced Dr. Weinberg who cleared his
throat and wrote the words “Project Marconi” on the black board in big
block letters. Then he began to chatter excitedly in his high pitched voice
while he scrawled equation after equation on the board in front of him.
When he finished, he turned to the group. “Gentlemen?” he asked.
He pushed up his glasses and waited.
Mr. Pearson stood up.
“Walter, you know I don’t have the technical background to evaluate
all of this,” he said waving his hand at the board. “But, if you say it can
be done, I’m behind you.” Mr. Pearson looked around at the room full
of furrowed brows. It seemed to console him.
“Mr. Pearson, I know it can be done,” Weinberg said in an even higher
pitch than usual. “At least on a small scale.” He waved the chalk in
Harry’s direction. “Our volunteers have already transmitted the first test
messages.”
Mr. Pearson slapped his hand on the table and then shook a finger at
his engineers. “You hear that boys? That’s genius talking.”
He stood up and pointed at the board, then turned to face the team.
“Clear your schedules gentlemen.” He said it as if he were announcing a
race. “We’ll start full-scale tomorrow.” Then he walked out the door.
By the time Harry’s battered old dodge had pulled into his driveway,
he had forgotten all about Gladys’s bowling plans. After his work day,
he was relieved to find that she wasn’t home. He let himself in without
bothering to take off his hat, and went straight into the bedroom. He
walked up to the headboard and checked the dollar-sized silver disk he
had taped behind it. Pulling back the tape, Harry saw that the tiny green
light was on and shining steadily. He stared at it for a long time before
finally smoothing the tape back into place.
Harry was finishing the peas in his TV dinner when he heard the
key rattle in the door. He could hear Gladys’s muffled swearing. He
checked his watch, and smiled.
The door flew open with a bang, and Gladys stood swaying in the
doorway.
“What are you doing here?” she asked. Her voice was too loud.
“I’m eating my dinner, Gladys.”
“Oh, what do I care? I’m going out with Ruby.” She dropped her
purse onto the couch and put out an arm to steady herself. After a moment,
she looked back at the dining room table.
“What are you looking at?” she said.
Harry shook his head and went back to his peas.
“You’re not reading another Florida brochure are you?”
“Well, no, I’m—”
“I told you, we’re retiring to Toledo. Margaret’s in Toledo.” She
reached up and scratched the back of her neck.
“I know your sister’s in Toledo,” Harry answered back. “I’m just interested
in Florida, that’s all.”
She stumbled past him and down the hallway to the bathroom. Harry
could hear her rattling through the cabinet drawers, then he heard the
sound of glass breaking.
“Gladys, what are you doing in there?”
He got a grunt in response, and heard the medicine cabinet being
opened.
“Gladys!”
 “What?”
“What are you doing in there?”
She staggered back into the dining room with a bottle of aspirin in her
hand. She hadn’t fixed her ruffled hair or smeared lipstick. Harry could
smell the gin from where he sat.
“My head hurts like hell,” she said and steadied herself with the back
of a chair. She looked at the aspirin bottle in her hand and said “I need
some water.” Her high heels clacked on the linoleum as she wobbled into
the kitchen. She turned on the water then turned it off again, and
moaned.
“Harry! Damn it Harry call the hospital! My head feels like it’s going
to burst.”
She stood hunched over the sink, holding her head in both of her
hands.
Harry looked at the clock on the wall. It glowed in the dull orange
light that shone in through the window. It read eight o’clock.
“Harry, help me!” Gladys said and collapsed with a solid thud onto
the floor.
Harry picked up his TV dinner tray, and walked into the kitchen. He
stepped over Gladys’s legs, opened the trash can, and dropped the tinfoil
tray into it. Gladys groaned softly behind him.
“Don’t worry Gladys,” Harry said gently. “It’s almost time.” He
looked out the kitchen window. Orange light flooded the backyard, and
he could hear a rhythmic, mechanical hum coming from just beyond the
back porch.
Harry knelt down beside Gladys and stroked her hair, turning her face
towards him. Her mascara had run and left dark streaks on her face.
Smeared red lipstick exaggerated her twisted mouth.
“Goodness Gladys, you’re a mess. You can’t be seen in that state.”
Gladys made a weak attempt to push Harry’s hands away. Harry
fended her off easily, then reached under her chin and jerked off the thin
golden chain she was wearing. Gladys gasped then was quiet.
He stood up and walked to the kitchen door and opened it. He put his
hand in front of his face to shield his eyes from the blinding orange
light. The backyard humming grew louder and more urgent.
Gladys rolled over onto her knees and struggled to get to her feet.
“Harry, you son of a bitch, what’s that noise? What did you do to
me?” The exertion made her pant.
Harry turned his head towards her. He looked like a boy about to go
to the circus. “I didn’t do anything to you Gladys. They did.”
Harry held out Gladys’s necklace at arm’s length in front of him. The
windows of the house began to rattle. He almost had to shout to be
heard.
“I taped the transmitter to your headboard. They’ve been talking to
you for over a week now. At night, when you’ve been sleeping.”
Gladys stared with wide eyes at Harry. The blazing orange light
seemed to make him glow.
A quivering purple tentacle with a circle of delicate pincers at the end
came through the kitchen door. It seemed to sniff the air for a moment,
then gently took the gold chain out of Harry’s hand. A gurgling, squealing
noise erupted just outside of his view, and a second tentacle appeared.
Harry smiled and pointed to the kitchen.
“Dr. Weinberg asked for volunteers Gladys,” Harry shouted over the
hum and Gladys’s screams. Six purple tentacles appeared and dragged
Gladys out of the kitchen and into the silver space ship outside. He followed
her onto the porch and waved as she disappeared up the shallow
boarding ramp. “Of course, I volunteered you,” he said, and watched
with a smile as the silver space ship ascended into the night.
If you enjoyed this story and would like to be notified when I write my
next one, just send an e-mail to bleestories at gmail.com with Feedbooks
in the subject line. No spam and no sales pitch, just a personal note from
me to you.

