In times of reckoning, there are always those that feel that they have
been cheated; that the path hewn for them through the mountains and
valleys and plains of destiny is not theirs. It belongs to some other, some
more or less worthy soul, dependant upon the trials they have to face
along that path.
Carson was one such, believing himself better. Better than all by a
long way. He had killed, he had hurt and defiled in his time, believing it
his right, his destiny. He had the blood of many on his conscience, if
such a man can be said to have one. He had the utter surety that only his
kind possess; arrogant, righteous and utterly without remorse.
His own reckoning, then, was a rude affair, coming late one night as
he slept. The demon of his reckoning, a foul creature all scale and hair
and reeking pomposity, was sitting on his chest as he woke, startled.
‘Wha… ?’ he began, before his voice dried like arid desert air. He
croaked the question again, fully formed.
The demon, called Lot, in a gesture seen by many and remembered by
few, carved shapes from the air with stout fingers and settled these patterns
of gossamer nothingness across Carson’s mouth. He fell silent
immediately.
‘Better,’ it said in a surprisingly quiet voice.
‘It is time,’ it said, and stroked a gnarled finger across Carson’s chest.
Instantly pained bloomed there, like a number of ever tightening steel
bands in and around his chest. The demon continued to caress the flesh
of Carson’s body, pinching here, pulling there, as if it were working its
strange magic in his meat, as it had done with the air around him; knotting
his flesh into unnatural configurations. Carson resisted as much as
he was able, and even struck the demon with one flailing hand before
Lot left off his manipulations long enough to wring shackles from the air,
which he laid almost lovingly across arms and legs, effectively stilling
him. Carson’s hand buzzed unpleasantly where it had touched the demon,
as if poisoned. His head whipped back and forth as if trying to
shake off the silencing charms placed there. Still he could not speak.
‘Fighting with me will not change anything,’ Lot purred. ‘It is time.’
For an hour Lot worked on the man, drawing pain and terror, memory
and experience from him like heat will draw sweat. At the end, when
Carson’s body was wracked with nauseating fever, his bed spotted with
blood spray from nose and eyes and mouth, his mind empty of all but
the sins he had lived, lived in, lived for, Lot removed the shackles and
the silencing charms that he had wrought from nothingness. Carson
gasped.
‘What are you?’ he managed to say before the last of his strength left
him.
‘Would you have me tell you, or show you?’ asked Lot.
Another twist of atmosphere, a pulling apart of space with the pinched
thumb and forefinger of both hands. The shape hanging from his delicately
pinched digits, had Carson been able to see it, was a rough rectangle.
Lot laid one end on the bed above Carson’s head. He seemed to
grasp more firmly the other corners and drew it down over Carson’s
body like a shroud. It settled with the weight of a child’s breath and
suddenly Carson saw. He saw through it, like wet muslin. He saw what
Lot was, and more importantly, he saw why Lot was.
He was not a religious man, never had been, but he thought he knew a
reckoning when he saw one. This, then, was his, for good or ill.
‘Are you death?’ he croaked as reality melted away. ‘Am I paying
now for all that I have done?’
Lot only laughed and gagged him once more. He reached to Carson’s
face with those stubby fingers and laid them across his forehead. Instantly
that drawing sensation flooded him again, as if Lot was a sponge
and his mind was water. He felt himself emptying, imagined a child
sucking the colour from a snow cone. He retreated deep into himself,
raced backwards down the black corridor of his mind, snatching at
memory and feeling as he went, all of it slipping through his grasp.
There was nothing but sin left now, all the acts of cruelty, all the faces
of those he had defiled, hurt, destroyed with his words and his fists and
his money. He snatched at one, a girl. The memory of her hurt lingered
for a moment, and he remembered the feeling of fist against stomach, the
gentle snapping of brittle bone, the defilement of soul. He sickened himself
suddenly, knew he deserved this demon sent to reckon him, but suddenly
the memory was gone, sucked from his grasp and all he had left
was her face, her beautiful ruined face, with its startling grey eyes and
soft dark lips. He clung to it, folded it like a photograph and hid it deep
within, mentally shrouding it with whatever was left of him. The drawing
stopped, and he sensed a searching, probing motion, like the wet
nose of a bloodhound shifting in and around him. He steeled himself
and locked down further. The face of the girl remained hidden. Suddenly
there was movement above him as the shroud was lifted from his
motionless body. Light and sound faded in, and he woke as if from a
coma. He was staring into the at once senseless and somehow raging
eyes of the demon.
‘WHERE IS IT?!’ Lot roared, stinging spittle flying like rain. He beat
Carson on the chest and a rib snapped. Pain flared but soon numbed.
‘GIVE IT TO ME!’
Carson was, by this time, a bereft man. He knew the demon’s face, as
he knew his own, knew its business, but all else was gone from him. All,
except the memory of that face that he kept inside himself, somewhere,
somehow. He had no idea how he was keeping it from Lot, or why, but
it was all he had left to hold onto. And he held tight. Lot reached to his
mouth and scraped a finger across it, tearing at the formless gag made
from air. Carson took a huge whooping breath, as if he hadn’t been able
to breathe this whole time.
‘No,’ he whispered, feebly. ‘You can’t have it.’
‘I MUST!’
A savage blow to the side of his head, and Carson had the mind to
wonder that a demon so adept at torturing with thought and sense and
fear, should resort to physical violence at the end of it all. Carson managed
a laugh, content to die now, feeling that he had already bested the
demon, knowing really that he hadn’t. He had a feeling that his body
would not recover from all the pulling and wrangling and manipulating.
It felt broken in some fundamental way, bones felt pulverised, skin
stretched beyond its natural elastic tendencies. He laughed again and
Lot screamed his anger and frustration.
‘I need that last face,’ it said more quietly. ‘I must have the face. You
know this. Your reckoning is over and I must have that face.’ Its face
had calmed but there was still fierce light in its eyes, now turned the colour
of burning toffee.
Carson quelled an urge to scream and give up his prize. But he didn’t
believe his reckoning was over, for the demon was sitting on his chest
still. Its gaze was a strong hook in his brain, pulling, snagging, searching
for any memory left unplundered, any nugget of his life left intact. It
searched, and still Carson had no notion of how he was keeping the
girl’s face from him. Indeed, as the demon found tidbits of memory and
extracted those almost as if he was tossing clothes over his shoulder in
the search for a favourite shirt, Carson buried the face deeper still, until
even he could hardly reach it. Lot pulled free suddenly and screamed
piercingly into the still of the night. Carson’s ears fell mercifully deaf at
that moment, sound slowly filtering back in as if his ears were filled with
tar.
‘You cannot have it,’ Carson replied slowly.
A violent scratching hiss filled the room. Carson smelled burning hair
and ozone. The demon whipped its head a full one hundred and eighty
degree turn and looked over its shoulder. Carson thought he sensed fear
in the movement. There appeared behind the demon a misty drape of
air, like a thin sheet of fog at the foot of his bed. He thought he heard
murmurings and icy crackles emanating from it. Lot was listening intently,
and bowed his head at the sound. He nodded to himself and
turned back to Carson with a look of pleading now playing on his face.
His voice was soft. ‘Please,’ he said. ‘Just give me the face and I can
go on my way. As can you. You cannot deny a reckoning. It has to be.
One way or the other I will get that face, and you will be reckoned. You
know your time here is nearly done. I am here to move you on, but first
I need that face that you hide from me. I need to empty you.’ His teeth
clenched as he said this last, and his voice turned to a hiss. Carson
looked behind the demon and motioned with his eyes.
 ‘The boss?’ he asked. ‘Pressuring you? I can show you some techniques
for dealing with the stress.’ He had become unnatural calm, confidence
stealing into his words as he realised that the demon would not,
could not leave him here without that face that he held. He smiled again.
He had a notion that Lot could not kill him either, certainly not before he
knew he could go back to his boss with a full compliment of Carson’s
sinful memories. His mouth thick with congealing blood and saliva, he
coughed as he spoke again. ‘Where am I to be moved onto? Hell?’ He
did not flinch at the absurdity of that thought.
‘Hell. Heaven. These are just words that you have dreamt up to satisfy
your need to categorise yourself. All humans are the same. Am I a saint,
or am I a sinner?’ These last words he spoke with more anger, mimicking
Carson’s tone precisely. ‘There is but one stage of reckoning. You all
reach it eventually. And you are neither saint nor sinner. You just are.
What destiny awaits is only a matter of degree. In your eyes, it is good
or it is bad. To mine, it just is. But I must take you completely. I cannot
bring you if you retain a shred of memory, of deed.’ He stole another
backwards glance, eyes blinking rapidly.
‘No,’ said Carson softly.
There was a short silence, made unbearable by the notion that Lot was
using all his power not to erupt in anger. He spoke, forcibly soft,
‘What did you say?’
‘I said no,’ Carson whispered. ‘You obviously cannot kill me. You
would have done so already. You need that memory and I said no. I am
not giving it up. Kill me if you can, but it dies with me.’
Carson was awash with the overwhelming notion that he must defy
this creature. It was more important to him now than the memory of the
ruined, beautiful face. Clearer, somehow. The desire to see this demon
bested, to see it suffer at the hands of that master that inevitably waited
for it behind the curtain of shifting fog, in some hellish dominion. Carson
had no doubt that he would die here tonight, that indeed Lot would
suffer his punishment gladly just to see him die, memory given over or
not. But to die with that face secure inside him. That was the game
now. That was the reckoning. He laughed, a bubbling splattering laugh,
his blood hissing faintly against the rough flesh of Lot’s ever darkening
features.
‘You sicken me,’ said the demon, its distaste visible in the set of its
mouth, the half lidded eyes. Carson marvelled that this beast could be
sickened at all, let alone by his simple act of defiance, but there it was.
‘That you think yourself so important, that you think your memories,
your acts, so important. You scurry and skulk through life hurting and
debasing all life around you, killing even, when it is not your right to do
so.’
Carson interrupted, emboldened. ‘And is it your right?’
‘It has always been so. I have always been so. You are not the first to
defy me and you will not be the last. But still you sicken me, taking
what is mine and hiding it away like some deviant schoolchild. Your
time here is done, and yet you cling to hope and to your last surviving
memory like they are yours to keep. Your reckoning, your….judgement
if you prefer….is my duty and your destiny. You cannot escape it. As I
cannot. So end this foolishness, give me the face and we can end all this.’
There was a pause, time in which the soft breathy shifting curtain of
fog behind Lot seemed to darken, congeal as though it were scum at the
edges of a pool. Faint smells of fear and pain and death, if such things
can be said to have aroma, taunted him. Lot closed his eyes and
breathed deeply, his stout fingers clutching the air.
‘Please,’ he said, softer. ‘Please. I cannot bring you with me, judged
and reckoned, unless I have you entirely. One memory held back means
nothing to you. It cannot save you. And yet to give it over will save
you. You can enter the realm behind me a cleansed man, fully paid up
for the atrocities you committed in this place. Life will be good for you
in there, it will be….’
‘No.’ Carson shook his head, despite the searing pain in his temples.
Blood, dried to a soft crust across his cheeks and brow, flaked and fell to
the pillow beneath him. ‘No.’
Lot reached for him, not physically, but with his searching mind,
wrenching shapes from the air as he did so, weaving existence into a web
of formlessness that he laid across Carson, its edges tightening around
him. Carson took a huge breath, sure that it would be his last, and the
hard thrumming of his heart in his ears was slowly drowned out by the
scream from the demon. Searing hot spittle flew like acid rain from his
lips, drawn back in a paroxysm of fury. Carson screwed his eyes shut
against the wetness, and used that last breath to scream back.
‘No, no, no, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO!’ and the sound was muted, as
though heard through glass.
Within himself, he imagined tearing the face from its hiding place and
shredding it, scattering the shreds like so much confetti to the corners of
his mind.
‘IT IS MINE!’ he roared, and this sound did break through the demon’s
ranting. He felt Lot shift slightly on him, and opened his eyes to
see a long fleshy tether wrap itself around Lot’s neck, cutting into the deviant
flesh there, tearing skin like a cheese wire. He could not see
through the curtain of mist but could sense a huge shape moving there, a
leviathan beneath dark waters; relentless and merciless. Lot screamed
and was suddenly gone, pulled back sharply, his screams ended suddenly
by the noose around his neck. As he went, Carson felt a fish hook
snag into his mind, Lot’s final probing search. He felt it tear, imagined a
flood filling his brain, an aneurism of his imagination. He felt his mind
drain, the shreds of memory that he had scattered lifting and flowing
with the flood like so many dead flower petals on a stream. And then he
felt nothing.
*
Carson stood at his bathroom mirror. The face that stared back was
unknown to him. The bruising and lacerations across his face were unknown,
and indeed the feelings of pain that he felt now were like the
first rude, alien sensations filling a newborn baby’s thoughts. He
reached a slow hand to his face, watched its reflection follow, and
touched the damaged flesh that it found there. His eyes roamed the
contours of his face, empty and sullen. With each fresh wave of sickening
pain, fragments of memory resurfaced.
He felt that he should know the face, broken and bloodied though it
was, but he didn’t. That part of him was gone, and though he could still
remember Lot’s hissing vitriol and his burning spittle, the wrought air
that he had governed to subdue him, he could not remember why he
could not remember his own face. It left him empty. Flutterings began
in his violated mind, soft breezes, as if torn paper was being blown
down a dark corridor.
It seemed that although Lot had sworn to remove every one of Carson’s
memories, he had truly only been interested in those dark, viscous
memories that dealt with the pain and defilement and deviance that
filled so much of Carson’s mind. In the others, those grey and damp,
lifeless things in the deepest whorls of his brain, the ones that allowed
him to speak and dress and tie his shoelaces, the demon was wholly uninterested.
Carson exercised those memories now and dressed fitfully,
cleaned his face as best as he could and as thoroughly as he could manage
with the pain, and left the house. As dawn rose, he stood on the
front lawn and watched the sun rise, breath pluming from him, cold air
biting his skin and soothing it in equal measure. He did the only thing
he could think to do, and walked.
Behind him, a twist of air as a shroud, invisible and silent, Lot followed.
Occasionally he would probe Carson’s mind, quickly and
without much force, but he could not find the memory of the girl with
the grey eyes, the broken face and the broken soul. He thought of that
face, and it taunted him. He fixed on it until it became his memory, and
it fluttered about his own mind like a bird caught in a greenhouse. Foul
fluid seeped from a wound on his neck, and his eyes were downcast and
dark, fuming rage barely contained in the quivering of his lips. He
watched Carson walk, bereft, silent himself except for the slight rasp in
his breathing. Lot’s fingers clicked together with frightening speed, the
sound like the first crackle of lightning before the huge crash, all the
more terrible for that untapped potential. No-one heard the noise but
Lot himself, and he used it to drown out the sound of his own breathing,
raw and bloody in his torn throat.
Lot followed until the road Carson trod petered out and became a path
across rolling fields. He followed as Carson stepped over gate and stile,
walked round tree stump and boulder. In the distance the soft thump of
drums, almost physical push of deep bass, swallowed them both, the visible
and the invisible. Lot pulled his shroud tighter, occasionally glancing
behind him. Had Carson cared to look, he may have seen a shimmering,
like the heat haze above a hot road. He may have seen a further
shimmering rift within the haze, and had he been able to see Lot’s eyes,
he would see them dart again and again to this split, fear obvious in their
depths.
The source of the music showed itself as they rounded a thick copse of
trees. A small group of people were dancing in the field, the music blaring
from the rear speakers of a car, the boot open, the tang of alcohol and
marijuana smoke pricking Lot’s eyes until they watered foul tears. He
cleared them with his stubby fingers.
And there she was.
It was the girl, undoubtedly. Her face unmarked, her bones unbroken,
but it was her. Carson stopped at the perimeter of the party, seemingly
lost to himself. Lot howled laughter as the girl walked over to Carson,
began to talk. He pulled the air to him suddenly, formed a tight rope
that he wound around the couple, pulling it tighter. Neither one felt it,
but both felt drawn to each other. The girl was drunk and happy to flirt.
Carson was utterly sober, utterly bereft of emotion, but something about
the girl…
Grey eyes fluttered, clumsily seductive, hot breath caressed his ear as
she whispered.
‘Take her, you fool,’ hissed Lot. ‘I give her to you again. Take her!’
Carson heard nothing but the thump of music and the soft wind of her
voice. But something about her…
He grabbed her wrist tightly, and felt himself stir in the deep pit of his
stomach as he felt small bones shift in is hand. She squealed laughter
and led him away. Carson followed, allowing his grip to loosen but
knowing that he had the power to crush those bones to powder in his
fist. He wondered, suddenly, shockingly, what her face would look like
bruised and battered, wondered how her beautiful full lips would look
puffed and bloodied.
Lot saw all this as he probed Carson. He allowed his own memory of
the girl to vanish, and somewhere deep in the folded corners of Carson’s
mind, torn scraps of memory began to reform, to reknit themselves.
Carson remembered.
Lot squatted on the grass and entertained himself by making shapes
from the air. These he set to dance as the day darkened and the volume
of the music grew. Carson had remembered the girl. Her face would be
forming somewhere in his mind, and Lot could wait. He would wait
forever to complete this reckoning. He lay back, the demon, and clicked
his tough fingernails together on his chest. He sensed the rift behind
him closing with a tearing gasp.
Soft bubbling laughter welled from his torn throat, and he closed his
eyes.

