It was a warm day out there and he wanted to throw the ball around for
a while, which really meant that he wanted to practice his pitches and
then spend an hour making fun of how she couldn’t throw the balls back
to him. He loved to point out that she wasn’t holding the baseball cor-
rectly. That she wasn’t letting her wrist do the work. That she better
hope her life never depended on throwing a fastball because if that was
the case, well, sugar pie, you should pack it in now.
Allie put up with Preston’s critiques as she always did: she employed
her best ah, shucks shrugs and pathetic little half-smiles that said she
was trying to be a good sport but she was, after all, just a girl.
At twenty-eight, she couldn’t count herself as much of a girl anymore,
but she liked the way Preston treated her as if she were one, the way he
did things for her in public, like order her meals or recommend which
dress she should buy, and the way he held her in his strong arms and
told her not to worry her little head over anything.
Sometimes late at night, she watched him sleep. He snored most
nights and that kept her awake but that wasn’t all of it. She liked to
watch him sleep, his mouth half open, head tilted back against the pillow
so his Adam’s apple protruded out. Sometimes she touched him, though
never enough to wake him. Not unless she wanted his sex and occasion-
ally she did. He wanted her more often and she never refused him, only
hoped he wouldn’t be too rough about it.
During those quiet late-night hours when he snored and she stared,
she allowed herself to think about what her friend Gretta said. About
getting out and getting away. She wouldn’t entertain those ideas during
daytime as if Preston might see the thoughts on her face. Only at night
when he couldn’t see her. That was when it was safe to imagine what
life could be like. What life might be for a woman who didn’t have to
wear long sleeves in July to cover the finger-shaped bruises on her arms.
What it would be like to go into the bathroom and not fear that the urine
would be dark brown.
She wasn’t stupid. She knew Preston was a mean asshole sometimes.
He had abused her, yes, she could acknowledge that. He had a tend-
ency to get too rough with her and often his touch hurt, but he always
took care of her afterwards. Always got the ice pack or drew a warm
bath for her. He never seriously hurt her. Never broke any bones and
the few cuts had been superficial.
“I know, I know,” she said to Gretta more times than she could re-
member. They spoke on the phone when Preston was at the batting
cages.
“I will help you get away from him. We’ll create some kind of plan to
mislead him or something. He’s a prick and an abuser and you need to
leave him.”
This conversation with only slight variation had happened many
times. Gretta played her part as the concerned best friend and Allie al-
ways assured Gretta that she knew she had to leave and she would one
day but it wasn’t time yet.
“Then when?” Gretta said. “When the coroner takes you away?”
“That’s a bit dramatic,” Allie said. “Preston has anger problems but
he’s not a killer.”
“I’m not saying he’s going to slice your throat, but he might go too far
some night. I know how he gets. Like he’s in a trance.”
“That was one time.”
Gretta made an exasperated noise. “I know it wasn’t just one time and
that’s besides the point. One time is enough.”
Gretta was talking about the Thanksgiving episode, as Allie had come
to think of it. Gretta didn’t know, but clearly sensed, that the one-time-
only Thanksgiving incident had happened more than just that one time.
In fact, it had come again in various forms at least three more times.
Luckily, no one else had been around to witness.
“I’m not in danger,” Allie said. She told herself the same thing during
the night while she stared at his Adam’s apple.
“It was like he was fucking possessed,” Gretta said, still stuck on
Thanksgiving.
“Everything is fine.”
Gretta didn’t say anything for several seconds and Allie hoped that
meant she was moving on to another topic. “When’s the last time he hit
you?”
“Gretta, please.”
“He may not have been a football player but he outweighs you by at
least sixty pounds so don’t tell me his hits don’t hurt. You still look like
you’re waiting for your breasts to mature.”
“Thanks.”
“You should say thanks. Better to be a little thing like you then have
these double D’s like me. And the double-sized ass to boot.”
“I look like a boy,” Allie said.
“Preston tell you that, too?”
“Let it go, please.”
“I will help you get away. He’ll never find you.”
“He’s not some crazed stalker. If I want to leave, he’s not going to
come after me.”
“You think so, huh?”
She let the question hang there a moment. “Wouldn’t that mean he
loves me? He wouldn’t just turn away if I tried to leave.”
“Shit, girl,” Gretta said. “You’re fucked in the head.”
“Thanks.”
“And one of these days you’re going to end up in a hospital and that’s
when all your bullshit excuses get pushed aside and I take over. I’ll have
the cops all over him and slam his ass in jail so fast he won’t know what
the hell happened.”
“That’s very sweet of you.”
“That’s me,” Gretta said. “A real sweetheart.”
Gretta was a good friend, had been for most of Allie’s life, but she
didn’t understand everything like she thought she did. Preston had a
temper, that was unarguable, but he could be such a sweet guy, had been
so charming and gentle for a long time when they first got together. He
had problems, sure—hell, who didn’t?—but that didn’t mean she should
just throw him back into the sea and cast out her bachelorette fishing
pole again. Relationships were about commitment. That’s what Mom
always said.
And Allie wasn’t in denial. She knew the reasons women stayed in
dangerous relationships. Gretta had given her many pamphlets since
the Thanksgiving incident, forwarded her too many sad-sop e-mails
about abused women and all the programs available to help them. Allie
knew all the reasons and had gone through them painstakingly. She
thought about each one long and hard and concluded that while her rela-
tionship with Preston might not be the most healthy or well-balanced,
she wasn’t one of those women telling people that she had tripped over
her own feet and smacked her head into a doorknob. If that were the
case, she would leave.
No question.
Preston had put on his blue and orange Buffalo Bisons jersey with the
stupid picture on the shoulder of the buffalo charging out of a baseball.
Preston had once been a very promising pitcher for the minor league
team. Might have been quite the pro. Allie had met him at a bar follow-
ing a night game in Buffalo. She had gone up there to visit her friend
Nicole.
Nicole had gotten free tickets from work and said she knew where
most of the players went for drinks afterward. It was a loud and bright
sports bar with a million televisions hanging off the walls. The players
had changed out of their uniforms but they stuck out from the other men
with their broad shoulders and muscular arms. Not to mention how they
were congratulating each other on whatever great plays had occurred
during the game. Allie liked baseball and had enjoyed the game, but it
had been an opportunity to get some sun and watch fit men in tight
pants. She didn’t really know what had happened in the game other than
the Bisons beating the Louisville Bats. She and Nicole had changed in the
car out of shorts and tank tops into jeans and black silky tops that kind of
made her feel a bit like a whore but, she had to admit, she looked good.
Preston noticed her right away. Somebody was talking to him but he
was staring at her from across the bar, like she had telepathically said hi.
She did her best coy routine of glance and look away and smile just
enough but not all big and stupid and he raised his glass to her at one
point and she laughed even though she really had no idea what to think.
A minute later, he was crossing the bar with two beers and she made
sure to touch his arm when she took the offered beer. His smile was wide
and adorable, a little boy who only wanted to please.
She still saw that smile and it always brought her back to that first
night when everything seemed to click, like finding him that night was
destiny.
Preston dropped the bucket of baseballs on the small pitcher’s mound
and it tipped over, rolling a handful of balls onto the lawn. He cursed
but made no effort to clean any of them up. He tossed her the pink
baseball glove he had bought her for their one-year anniversary. In gold
cursive lettering across the back it read: Allie Eckert. Her last name was
Moss. His was Eckert. He was trying to be sweet. Gretta said he was a
selfish prick, but Allie came to think of the personalized glove as proof of
his love and devotion to her. Baseball meant so much to him and he
wanted to share that joy with her, which meant he also loved her.
Preston had landscaped his backyard so it resembled a baseball field.
He even had a scoreboard that he could operate from a wireless control-
ler. Above the HOME and VISITOR score spots hung a custom made
sign reading PITCHER’S ALLY. The first time he brought her here, she
thought he had made the sign for her but after she pointed out the name
coincidence, he said he might have to change it if she couldn’t throw for
shit. He laughed, said he was joking, and she laughed too.
There was a home plate, a pitcher’s mound, and a fence a ways bey-
ond that. This was not a place to actually play baseball. When some of
his former baseball buddies came over, it was always a game of strike
outs vs. home runs. She would be in the woods past the fence gathering
the home runs. It didn’t bother her. It was nice to be included.
She took her place behind home plate. It was an actual plate used at
Coca-Cola Field. The players had given it to him when he left. They had
signed it and Preston had covered it with a thick sheet of glass so even
now, almost two years later, the names were still potent in bright blue
and black ink. Most of his former teammates had written things like
Good Luck and Sorry to See You Go or You Were the Best, but some-
body had written, Stop Touching Yourself You Ballsucker and signed it
Big Blow. She never asked him about it, but she sometimes wondered
what it would feel like to call Preston a ballsucker. Then she immediately
felt sorry and scolded herself for being so ungrateful.
“Heads up!”
Allie raised her head in time to jump out of the way from a fastball
that would have hit her in the chest. The ball bounced off the large wall
behind her on which someone had painted the image of a crouching
catcher in full gear and a skinny player in pinstripes forever at bat and
never swinging.
“Jesus, Allie. You might want to try to catch the ball.”
She shrugged as she always did when she failed to do something right
and said she was sorry.
“Don’t apologize. Just be ready.”
She nodded.
“Are you ready?”
She started to say she was and then she crouched behind home plate
and used both hands to ready herself for the pitch. She had once men-
tioned getting one of those helmets with the face masks like the players
wore and even the protective chest gear but he told her it wasn’t neces-
sary. He didn’t throw wild pitches and as long as she wasn’t retarded,
she could catch them without all that shit. Besides, she needed to keep
her focus on the ball and a face mask would make that more difficult.
Allie punched the inside of her glove clumsily. “All set,” she said.
Preston nodded and grabbed a ball from spilled pile, examined it,
rubbed it on his jersey, placed it in his glove and fiddled with it for a
little while (Stop Touching Yourself). He leaned forward with his eyes on
her as if waiting for a signal—she had learned the hard way that he was
not waiting for anything from her—and then stood, glanced behind him
at the distant fence and scoreboard. This part of the routine could take a
minute or more depending on his mood, but the rest always happened
quickly. His left leg came up, the right arm cocked behind his head, and
then his body twisted forward as his right arm whipped around and his
back leg kicked up behind him. Less than a blink later, the ball was upon
her. Sometimes it landed it her glove. Occasionally it hit her, though nev-
er in the head.
This time it smacked into the middle of her glove with the familiar
thwap!
Preston made a fist and pumped his arm a few times. “Strike!” he
called.
Her palm stung and her fingers would soon be numb but it wasn’t
really that bad. Sometimes it could even be fun.
“Good one, babe,” she said.
“Fucking-A,” he said.
He would spend the next minute or so rotating his throwing arm at his
side or flapping it like an injured bird trying desperately to use its only
good wing. He said it was necessary to stay loose. She had learned not to
giggle at the ridiculousness of it. The whole thing was kind of silly. He
was never going to be a professional. He had said so himself.
She took the ball from her glove and set it on the grass next to the bat-
ter’s box. It was important to not get it dirty. He didn’t want her throw-
ing them back to him, either. She had done that a few times but Preston
had gotten tired of coming off the mound to catch her throws that al-
ways, no matter what she did, fell short. When she had tried to throw
with her whole body like he did, she threw the ball way off to her right, a
shanked golf ball.
She would throw them back to him but not until later when he was
ready to laugh.
“Christ, Allie, you ready?”
She had been looking at the signatures again. She nodded. I’m ready,
you ballsucker. The thought was barely articulated before a wave of re-
gret washed over her and she wanted to apologize but then Preston’s leg
was up and his arm was swinging forward and there was the little white
baseball with the red stitching rocketing right for her seeming to get
faster and faster as it sliced the air and she had to drop to the ground
with the glove in front of her face.
The ball crashed against the backboard and rebounded to smack her in
the back.
“Holy, Christ, Allie, you have an epileptic fit?”
She got up, dusted herself off.
“Sorry,” she said.
He shook his head, loosened up his shoulder.
She got back behind the plate.
This might not be as fun as an easy-going back-and-forth catch, but it
wasn’t that bad, either. She just felt a little off today. There were days
when she didn’t feel quite right, like her sense of balance was off or
something. It could get bad sometimes, feel like she was on the deck of a
ship trapped on choppy seas. It could make her vomit and bring on mi-
graines. Preston would take care of her, however. He was good for that.
She just had to get through his pitches and then she could collapse and
let him tend to her. She had been to the doctor, even had an MRI that
Preston said was unnecessary and actually was because there was noth-
ing physically wrong with her. The doctor suggested she see a therapist.
Preston told her in the car that if she wanted to see a therapist she could
pack her fucking bags right now because no girlfriend of his was going
to be known as a cooky fuck. Besides, he assured her, he would help her
through this. He would be all she needed. She only had to trust that he
knew best.
The smile that punctuated that promise was the same one that first
tugged at her heart at the sports bar in Buffalo. It always made
everything better. He smiled that way after sex when he allowed her to
cuddle against his warm chest and she listened to his heartbeat until it
hypnotized her.
“Should I just throw to myself?” Preston asked.
She gestured for him to throw and he shook his head. They had been
together for four years and most spring and summer days during the last
two years had brought them out here to Pitchers’ Ally. She knew the
routine. She knew what was expected.
There was no situation where she didn’t know her role. A happy rela-
tionship, and eventually a happy marriage, depended on knowing each
other and satisfying the expectations. Part of the expectations was main-
taining the routine and the ritual. The time she spent catching his pitches
was part of it, a big part of it. If she neglected him out here on his
homemade field, he was likely to neglect her in the house where he
could be so gentle. He might even get rid of her. There were other wo-
men out there. He often reminded her of that.
Allie caught the next pitch and almost cheered.
“Miracle of all miracles,” Preston said.
She caught most of the pitches for the next hour. One went into the
dirt and bounced off her shin but it hadn’t hit directly. There would be a
massive bruise there but the bone was okay. A few sailed past her to hit
the backboard and each time Preston reminded her that he was taking it
easy on her. He could still throw it ninety, if he wanted. God forbid she
actually be able to catch a real fastball, not this wimpy shit he was giving
her.
By the time all the balls were gathered next to her in a sloppy pile, Al-
lie’s hands were completely numb. When she stood, her legs wobbled
and the world tilted for a moment as if everything might slide off into
nowhere.
Preston grabbed the empty bucket and walked several feet off the
mound toward her. He set it down, stood straight, and punched the in-
side of his glove. “Now, let’s see if you still throw like a baby.” He
laughed as if that was him being charming and she smiled back because
maybe it was and if she wanted the really kind side of him to come out
she had to put up with the coarser edges.
She grabbed a ball and ran through the many things Preston had told
her about throwing. She gripped the ball with her thumb and first two
fingers and stared at Preston’s glove, held up for her at chest height.
She cocked her arm. Her hand began to cramp but she squeezed the
ball harder and threw. The toss was lopsided and Preston had to take
three quick steps forward to reach it, but he caught it.
She smiled but she really wanted to cheer. That throw hadn’t been
great but it hadn’t been bad at all. She was getting better.
The ball dropped into the bucket with a hollow thud.
“Next,” Preston said.
Her hand cramped around the next ball and she stared at it a moment.
She pulled back her arm and winced at the knot of pain blooming in her
shoulder. She swung forward and her arm melted like rubber on scorch-
ing concrete. The ball fell well short.
He stood there, arms akimbo, and shook his head like he would at a
dog that messed on the rug. “I mean, shit, Allie. I’m not asking for fast-
balls here. Just a simple game of catch.”
She picked up the next ball. The stitches rubbed against her fingers but
she felt the sensation as something from far away, like her body and
mind had split and the signal from her nerves had to travel through the
air to reach her.
Her legs shook. Please, God, don’t let me lose control yet. I’ve barely
started. Let me get through half of these at least. Half and he might let it
go. Might say I had tried my best.
“Next,” he said.
Her hand was shaking now too and when she went into her thrower’s
position, her whole arm began to shake.
“You look like Gumby,” Preston said and laughed.
The sun was still high in the cloudless sky but it had arced past its
highest point and begun the long, slow descent, which would eventually
take it behind the PITCHER’S ALLY scoreboard. She squinted against
the glare.
She wasn’t wearing a ball cap, either. She asked for one, a pink one to
match the glove, but Preston told her that ball caps made girls look like
dikes. Preston was wearing his, of course; he had started to bald in his
early twenties and was still preserving the patchwork up there. The few
times he had gone without a hat during these pitching sessions, his scalp
burned bright red. She told him to wear the hat—you don’t want to get
cancer, do you? She thought for a moment how cancer would wither his
muscles and eventually kill him, how that would set her free. She cried
all night after that thought because she couldn’t believe she could think
something so horrible. If Karma was real, she would get cancer.
“At this rate, it’ll take until next week,” Preston said. “I’m getting
hungry, you know.”
Black spots popped up in front of her. They floated before her for a
moment before fading. She tried to squint them away but more ap-
peared. One blacked out Preston’s face. It reminded her of scribbled-out
faces in yearbooks.
He was right. She had to get moving because dinner wasn’t going to
cook itself, after all. She was going to make shrimp parmigiana, his
favorite, and she still had to thaw the shrimp, then peel and de-vein
them. She hadn’t made any fresh sauce this week, so she’d have to use
the jar kind. If she was sly about it he wouldn’t notice. She’d sneak out to
the recycle bin when he was in the shower.
“Throw the fucking ball,” he said.
The ball sagged through the air and hit the ground several feet in front
of Preston. He stared at it as if it were a piece of fallen debris from a
spaceship.
“What the hell is that?”
“I’m sorry,” she said. More black spots smudged her vision.
She bent toward the pile of balls and vertigo almost toppled her. Her
head felt like it weighed a thousand pounds and yet was completely hol-
low and buoyant, a balloon filled with helium.
She grabbed her knees, clenched her jaw, and inhaled very slowly un-
til the feeling passed. It might have only been a few seconds.
“Don’t play sick just because you’re afraid to try,” Preston said. “You
make me feel like I’m the bad guy.” He chuckled.
Why did it matter if she could or couldn’t throw a baseball? Why the
hell did he care so much? He was the athlete, not her, as he had made
clear many, many times. It was stupid and a waste of time and if she had
any kind of backbone, she would throw the glove down and walk inside.
She couldn’t do that, though. Preston was a bit hard-edged sometimes,
but he loved baseball and he wanted her to love it too. He co-owned a
training facility for young kids and teens and she had seen him work
one-on-one with little kids, showing them how to hold a baseball, how to
use the whole body to propel the throw. When those kids tossed pitches
as weak as her last one, Preston clapped and said that was okay, was
good actually, and then dusted off another ball and handed it over. Now,
let’s see your real fire power, he’d say and the kid would laugh and, in-
variably, the second throw would be at least somewhat better.
In those moments, Allie loved Preston more deeply and completely
than she could ever fully articulate. When Gretta got on her horse about
what a dick Preston was and how she needed to get the hell out of his
home, Allie would think about the little kids he could teach to throw a
baseball. She would think about that and know she couldn’t leave him
and that she wanted to have his child.
“Look,” Preston said. “I’ll be nice. Just a few more tries and you can
get started on my dinner. Okay, sugar pie?”
She nodded, grabbed another ball.
Preston punched the inside of his glove. “Alright, good. Now show me
you’re not a total waste.”
The black blemishes had faded and if she squinted against the sunlight
they almost vanished completely and she could tell herself that she was
okay. Tired, that’s all.
She threw this one harder and it went farther, but well to the left. In
exaggerated fashion, Preston watched it fly by as if the ball were miles
away.
“You’re not fucking blind, are you?”
She was trying, trying so hard, but she was exhausted. She needed to
stop, to rest, to sleep. She couldn’t, though. There was still dinner and
then the dishes to clean and then Preston would have his nightly ice
cream sunday with whipped cream and hot fudge and afterward he
might want her to give him something special. She would do whatever
he wanted because she loved him. She would take him in her mouth and
please him while he watched her with bug eyes and a ring of chocolate
syrup around his lips.
She could cry. She would save that for later, of course, after he was
asleep. She would watch his Adam’s apple and cry. It wasn’t because she
felt sorry for herself; it was because she was so damned tired. For a wo-
man who worked only twenty hours a week at a retail job, her life was
more exhausting than she could really explain.
When she reached for another ball, all the exhaustion from her entire
life pushed down on her shoulders. She sagged forward, grabbed her
knees again.
“Oh, Christ,” Preston said. “Is this your thing now? Your little show of
just how horrible this whole experience is?”
She was a little girl helping her mother with the dishes while Mom ex-
plained that sometimes Daddy said mean things but that he loved both
of them very much.
Tomorrow she had to clean and then get the groceries and deposit her
paycheck. Preston wouldn’t let her have direct deposit because he said
sometimes companies try to rip you off that way. A paycheck is a tan-
gible thing. He always examined hers first before she could cash it. Allie
wondered if he had scammed any of his employees the direct deposit
way.
She also had to bake an apple pie tomorrow because Dad was coming
over for dinner and he loved her pie, said it was better than Mom’s,
which really was a compliment because she had once won a blue ribbon
in a pie contest at a local fair. Mom had been so happy, she’d had the
ribbon framed and she hung it in the kitchen next to a baking tin shaped
like a lamb. Dad had said that she shouldn’t get too prideful, she had
managed to bake better than a few retards and feebs.
“Hello!” Preston called in some stupid cartoonish voice that was sup-
posed to sound like a Brooklyn accent. “You wanna throw the ball there,
dolly?”
She thought of all those times she was a child when Dad told Mom she
had fudged up the works again and she apologized and did whatever a
good wife must to please her husband. She thought of those several
months when she and Preston were first dating and he held her hand
during dinner and smiled at her and she saw so much potential in that
smile. There had been no sense, no hint, that Preston would one day
soon grab her arm hard enough to bruise as he yanked her out of his
Acura in the middle of a city street because she had spilled her iced cof-
fee all over his dashboard. And she heard his emphatic apology. He’d
brought her flowers. Begged forgiveness.
“Throw the fucking ball, Allie. You’re being a baby.”
She stood straight and stared at him with tears beginning to distort her
vision. She wanted to beg for him to let her stop, but she also wanted to
bean him right in the head and hear him scream and maybe even watch
him fall to the ground. He’d lose that hard edge and be a little boy crying
about a scarped knee and then she would tend to him and for a brief
time, she would be the most important person in the house.
Preston caught the next throw as a reflex and stared at his glove for a
moment like she had morphed into a star pitcher.
Ally smiled and stumbled back a step. A bead of sweat rolled down
her back and gathered into an annoying inch at the edge of her bra strap.
Her hair hung around her head like something killed and left to rot. She
would have to shower, too. It would make her feel better, sure, but if she
tried to go to bed without showering, Preston would tell her she was go-
ing to develop crotch rot.
“Good,” Preston said. “Now give me another one.”
“No.”
His expression matched her own inner shock.
For several seconds, neither said anything. The bottom edge of Pre-
ston’s jersey rippled with a small breeze and the skin on her arms
chilled. A storm was coming. Or maybe she was imagining that or hop-
ing something would happen to break this moment or maybe she was
going to pass out and that would be a sort of escape from her
transgression.
That was her father’s word—transgression.
Her apology came in a quick, flooding torrent. She wasn’t even aware
of the words pouring forth so much as how pathetic she sounded, how
much like the little girl who spilled milk and had to mop the whole floor
while Mom and Dad watched television in the other room.
“You done?” Preston asked.
She nodded but the apology still dribbled from her mouth.
“Good,” he said. “Now throw.”
“I can’t.” Those two words managed to squeeze between her sobs.
“What?”
“Please,” she said. “Please. I can’t.” She had never really spoken those
words but they had rolled through her mind many times before as giant
red letters glowing on a scrolling marquee. Saying the words made her
feel weaker still. Even more pathetic. She hated herself. Why was she so
damned stupid and weak?
Her father again.
“Shut up,” Preston said. “Throw the fucking ball. Go ahead. Pick one
up. You can do it. That’s it. Now, throw it.”
Her arm sagged with the weight of the baseball. It could have been
one of those weighted balls guys threw in the Olympics. The black
splotches returned, flashing before her like the lights at a music concert.
Dark lights, she thought. That could be the band that was forever play-
ing at the concert of her miserable life. Here they are, folks, the purvey-
ors of punishment, the masqueraders of misery—Dark Lights!
A weird, choked giggle burped through her cries.
“Fuck you laughing at?” The smile that made her love him was gone,
swallowed in the quicksand of his face.
If she didn’t throw the ball he might go to her, but not to comfort or
soothe. No, he would unbuckle his belt as he walked and then drag her
inside where he would show her what happened to ungrateful bitches
who refused to throw a fucking ball.
He had only used the belt a few times. It stung like she couldn’t be-
lieve and left dark bruises that puffed out her flesh. She’d had to sleep on
her stomach for two weeks after the last time. It was okay; he had to
vent. If she didn’t let him release his tension things could get really
nasty.
That whipping had been a momentary hiccup of madness. Like the
thing at Thanksgiving. Only that had been worse, even though he hadn’t
even touched her.
“Throw the fucking ball, you stupid cunt.”
She sobbed harder, almost collapsed. This was only the angry Preston,
not the crazed one from Thanksgiving. No matter what happened, she
could relax knowing that while his belt might come off, nothing worse
would happen. Nothing really dreadful.
She cocked back her arm and tried to will it forward but her shoulder
collapsed. The ball dropped to her feet. It rolled through the dirt and
stopped. The smudge of dirt on its bright white surface looked like a face
with a cracked smile.
She used to draw smiley faces in the margins of her notebooks in high
school. Sometimes she added little tears falling from the eyes but the
smiles always stayed.
“Now, you’re really pissing me off.”
Preston was walking right toward her.
He’s only angry, she thought. Just anger. Nothing worse.
He shook his head slowly as if he had tried and tried and tried and yet
she wouldn’t behave.
Preston seized her upper arm and squeezed it hard enough to stop the
flow of blood. Tears fell more rapidly and black smudges surrounded
her like invading alien life forms.
“Can’t throw a ball?” Preston said. “After all this goddamn time, you
can’t throw a simple fucking baseball?”
She tried to apologize and beg for him to please just let her go inside
and start dinner, but her words were garbled sobs and the infantile
noises made her cry even more.
“You’re so pathetic, you know that?”
His glove fell to the ground. He stared at it a moment. It was some
kind of special glove he had used when he played and it was made out
of fancy leather or something. He oiled it weekly and never let her touch
it.
“There! You made me drop my fucking glove. Now it’s all dirty and
God forbid you offer to clean it. Christ!”
She would clean it and clean it painstakingly but there was no point in
saying so. He would call her a lying cunt, and take his belt off.
What had she done to deserve this life?
“You’re gonna learn right now. For once and always, this is how you
throw a goddamn baseball.”
He released her arm and snatched a ball off the ground. Stabbing
needle pain prickled through her hand as blood resumed its journey
through her veins. She cradled it as if the hand were broken.
He grabbed her right hand, snapped back her fingers, pushed the ball
into her palm, and rolled her fingers over it, his on top of hers.
“First, you have to grip the ball. Really feel it in your hand? You feel
that, sugar pie?”
Her fingers flattened between his grip and the ball, which felt like a
hard steel weight, even a tiny cannonball.
“Now, you swing back your arm.”
He yanked her arm back. Her whole body twisted to the side, her feet
tangled together and she would have fallen, but he held her vertical with
only his grip on her hand. Pain flared in her shoulder.
“And now, dear, sweet, little Allie,” he said and cupped his other
hand under her chin. “You hear me, darling? You hear me?” He twisted
her head toward him and something cracked in her neck as if this were
just a visit to the local sadist chiropractor. “You know what happens
now? Huh? Do you?”
She managed to squeeze a “Yes” out amid her cries. If he released her,
she would collapse into a pile. She was his marionette and he wanted her
up and dancing. Puppets did exactly as instructed. Puppets did not
transgress.
“Oh, you do, do you?” he said. “Well, shit, Allie, why don’t you show
me? Can’t do it? Can’t you do one simple fucking thing right? All you
have to do is throw the ball!”
He whipped her arm forward and released his grip on her hand at the
last second. The ball actually flew a few feet through the air before boun-
cing across the grass toward the pitcher’s mound.
“Well, holy shit,” Preston said. “You can throw.”
He released her completely and she fell to her knees. A few baseballs
rolled around her.
He picked up his glove and headed back toward the mound.
She fought against the flooding tears and childish sobs. Her whole
body hurt, especially her right shoulder. He had almost yanked it out of
the socket. But the pain really wasn’t that bad. It was the exhaustion that
made her cry. The knowing that he might keep this going for hours and
then still scold her for not having dinner ready.
It wasn’t the pain and it wasn’t even the exhaustion that really
crippled her. If she dared to be honest with herself. Stop being a blind
bitch, as Gretta would say. It was the embarrassment. The fucking
shame.
It was her apologizing to Daddy for whatever stupid transgression she
had committed and Mommy ignoring the whole thing. Tears fell and no
one ever offered a hug or a tissue.
That was little girl bullshit, though,and she knew it.
She fell for a mean asshole because her father was a mean asshole and
that’s just the way it went. Maybe Preston would change and maybe he
wouldn’t. She wasn’t as stupid as Gretta believed. She knew he wasn’t
the greatest guy, but he had his moments and those good times could
carry her through.
How’s that working out for you right now?
What? Cat got your tongue, sugar pie?
It wasn’t shame. She could pretend that was the truth if she wanted
but it wasn’t. Gretta knew everything that happened. Allie wasn’t em-
barrassed to share the details. She liked how Gretta always tried to con-
vince her to runaway. That made Allie feel good. Gretta really cared, but
she knew how far to push it, and when Preston took off his belt or
pinched her hard enough to leave a bruise on her hip, Allie told Gretta
and listened while her friend called him an asshole. When Preston
grabbed her breasts like he was trying to rip them off and told her she
was a good cocksucker, a real good cocksucker, Allie told Gretta and
made it sound like a perverted sex game so Gretta said she’d have to
find herself a sex weirdo like that too. And when Preston snuck up be-
hind her and slapped her ass so hard it squeezed out tears from her eyes
or when he said she had wrinkled his jerseys and punched her in the
side so she could piss blood for a week as a reminder of her misstep, Al-
lie told Gretta she had been carrying the laundry downstairs and
tripped, landed right on her side, silly klutz.
Yeah, no shame there. Completely embarrassment free.
They call that one denial, sugar pie.
“I’m waiting,” Preston called.
He was Daddy. Sitting on her bed at the end of the hall, making her
walk to him, pull down her pants so he could discipline her the right
way. Give her the spanking a transgressor deserved.
“First, you have to stand up.”
Allie Moss knew all the reasons she was with Preston and could recog-
nize every excuse she manufactured for his behavior. She was a cliche
life-long abuse victim who didn’t even value her own life enough to ut-
ter one syllable in her own defense.
She grabbed the nearest baseball.
It wasn’t her fault. Maybe she had committed horrible acts in a previ-
ous life and had to now suffer the punishment. Maybe she really de-
served this abuse. Maybe that’s what went with love, hand-in-
hand—kisses and kicks.
“Any day, sugar pie,” Preston called.
If she deserved it then that was fine. She could accept that. Grin and
bear it, as Daddy would say. But why did they have to be so vicious
about it? Was there no mercy for her? No brief respite from this hell?
Frustration and shame tangled together and throttled her.
She couldn’t suck in enough air to fill her lungs, couldn’t stop the
damn tears from running down her cheeks, couldn’t steady her hand as
it shook the baseball. This was her whole life in an instance of inaction.
She had always been the victim. Always swayed in whatever direction
the cruel wind blew. She had never once fought back, never dared to
push against the breeze.
“You’re just being a baby,” Preston said. “I’m only trying to help.”
Maybe he was. Maybe in some sick way, Preston actually thought that
if he was mean enough to her, she would toughen up and become a
strong, confident woman.
Yet she hadn’t. She was nothing more than a blubbering mess.
A waste.
A failure.
She screamed. It sounded hoarse and burned her throat. She threw the
ball toward Preston and didn’t care where it landed. Didn’t care if it
reached him, flew past him, or fell well short like the others. She grabbed
another ball and threw it. Her shoulder hurt and her arm shook with ex-
haustion but she took up another ball and threw it. And another. She
was being childish and ridiculousness, but grabbing the balls and throw-
ing them without thinking was liberating. To not care. To not give a crap
if she was doing it the right way. This was freedom.
She threw them faster. One after the other. Adrenaline gave her energy
and strength. She threw harder. She didn’t watch how far the balls went
or what the hell Preston was doing amid the shower of baseballs. If he
wanted her to throw all of the balls back to him, that was just what she
was going to do.
She screamed with every throw but her throat was scraped raw and
her shouts were mere cries, but in her mind the cries echoed through the
air and into the distant woods and all the way to the mountains far off
on the horizon.
She was pathetic, yes, but not at this moment. No, right now, Allie
Moss was a woman of power and strength and pride and self-respect
and she wasn’t going to allow anyone to tell her what she could and
couldn’t—
“Fuck!” Preston shouted.
The violence promised in that outburst froze Allie mid-throw. The ball
dropped from her hand.
Preston stood hunched over near the pitcher’s mound, hand on the
side of his head. He had dropped his glove. Baseballs were strewn all
around him.
“Fuck is wrong with you? You hit me.”
This was the moment to be real tough and strong and say, Yeah, well,
how do you like it, huh, sugar pie?
Instead, she said nothing.
He bent over further. “Oh, you bitch!”
She could only stare. She had hurt him. It was such a crazy idea that
she didn’t fully processes it. She had hurt him. It had been by accident
but part of her had probably been hoping for it to happen. Hoping one of
her errant throws cracked off his skull.
“You’re pretty proud of yourself, huh, bitch?” Preston said.
She wiped her face. The tears had stopped.
“Proud you hurt me? That the kind of whore you are? That what you
talk about when you’re letting guys fuck you up the ass?”
This wasn’t the typical anger and not merely the anger of the injured
and embarrassed: this was the precursor to one of his mental breaks.
This was how it had started on Thanksgiving. Accusations of raunchy
sexual escapades with other men.
“That homo Patrick you work with, you let him fuck you up the ass?
Or do you strap one on and give it to him? Huh? That fucking Irish cock-
sucker thinks he can fuck you and I won’t find out?”
Patrick was one of the managers at Candle Box, the home goods store
where she logged twenty hours a week. He was a year older than her
and liked to talk about books and movies, most she had never heard of,
but he was a nice guy. With a cute smile.
“I’m right, aren’t I?” Preston laughed as if he had finally figured out
the big ruse. “You are fucking him. And he told you to hit me. Didn’t
he?” He took his hand off his head and stared at his palm for several
seconds. “I’m bleeding. You dumb, fucking whore!”
She knew her role. She should be begging for mercy and apologizing
profusely, but all she could do was sit there on her knees and watch her
boyfriend accuse her of being a whore all because she had accidently hit
him in the head with a baseball. It was like watching a weird science ex-
periment or a drug trial where patients started clawing out their eyes.
Preston stared at his hand again and then at her. “Fucking cunt.”
She opened her mouth and started to say that he should calm down, a
line which would most certainly have the opposite effect, when he
snatched up a baseball and threw it at her.
She was too surprised to move. It sailed past her and bounced off the
backboard behind her with a vibrating GONG! A slight breeze from the
pitch disturbed wisps of her hair.
He growled and grabbed another ball. Allie had to get away, had to
run. Gretta was right. One of these days he was going to kill her and that
day might be right now. Preston was going to throw every one of those
baseballs right back at her and if he knocked her unconscious he still
wouldn’t stop throwing. He would pummel her body with ninety-mile-
per-hour throws.
Preston kicked up his leg, swung back his arm, and Allie had a mo-
ment to think, Now let’s see your real fire power, before the ball hurtled
right toward her face.
