So you're what? The guy? The recording guy?
[Documentarion.]
Documentarion. Fancy. You make that title up yourself?
[Um… yes.]
Thought so. Well… what now? Where do we start?
[Just… wherever you want. Tell me a little about yourself, before the
outbreak, if you want. About how you lived through the outbreak. After
the outbreak. Whatever you're comfortable talking about. Just talk, tell
me your story.]
My story? Okay. My story. Sheesh. It's pretty boring, I think. I mean,
not once you get into the killin' zombies and shit—that's pretty exciting,
in my opinion. But before that? Not so much. You want to just get to the
exciting parts?
[Not necessarily. I'm trying to make records. Talk as much as you want
about whatever, it will all go into the archive.]
The archive, huh? And who do you think will be reading this? The
zombies can't read, and ain't nobody else livin' through this.
[Kind of a bleak attitude, don't you think?]
I think it's the realistic view of things. We can try to fuck faster than
we die, and that's the only way the living are gonna get through this. I
don't think we're up to it. Every time we die, they get a new member.
Every time we get in a skirmish, they recruit more of us. Nah, I don't
think it's a bleak attitude. I think it's just fact. We're goners, kid. Maybe
somewhere down the line, they'll evolve, start thinkin', start readin'. And
maybe they'll be able to decipher whatever crap you're recording. If they
do, I hope they read this: fuck you.
Dead, heartless fucks, I hope you find this right when your time's up,
right when you're goin' through what we are, so you can know the fear
and the hopelessness, and you can know that you were the bad guys
once. Rat fuckin' bastards.
But chances are, nobody'll ever read the shit you're working so hard to
document. Your pages will be sitting in some blood-stained room, waiting
for the wind to blow 'em just a little, so that they can finally crumble
themselves to death. You ever think about that, as you run around takin'
your notes?
[I think about it. I try not to, but I think about it.]
Then why keep it up?
[Hope. The hope that maybe we can win this thing. Hope that if we
don't, there will be someone around who can. Hope that it isn't all for
nothing.]
Trust me, kid, it's all for nothing. Once you accept that, things go a lot
smoother.
[I… I generally try to keep myself out of the process. So if you could
just… tell your story.]
Fair enough. What's that look? My cigarette? So you're one of those.
Look, kid, the surgeon general was wrong. Smoking isn't killing anyone,
not anymore. Our timeline got cut a lot shorter. So if you have a problem
with me lightin' up, you can take your notebook and go bug someone
else.
[No, it's not that. Just makes me sneeze, that's all.]
Well feel free to sneeze all you like. Things like cancer sticks are the
only thing keepin' me from swallowin' the fast side of a bullet these
days. The little things that show you you're still alive, that's what you
have to live for. Back before this clusterfuck, we all wanted to live
forever. Now we know it's not gonna happen, so we better enjoy what
we can while we can, and to hell with the consequences.
[I know how to survive, don't lecture me.]
Hahaha! Look at that—you do have a little fire in ya. Guess you'd have
to, to travel around listenin' to the stories.
[And stop calling me kid.]
Fair enough, fair enough. Okay, let's do this. My story. Just start
anywhere?
[Wherever you think would best describe how you've managed this
far.]
All right, then.
I was never any good. At anything, I mean. Sports, education, you name
it, I wasn't good at it. I didn't make friends, I didn't make enemies. I was
nondescript. All my life, I was background scenery. I wasn't even good
at failing, when you get right down to it. I was the gray area of life. I was
the middle range, the statistics that were discarded.
Plain yogurt.
Boring as fuck.
My parents were fine—they fought a little, but always worked it out,
and it never scarred me. They loved me just fine, but it was never greeting
card love, it was never anything special. When I went away to college,
they told me goodbye, and my dad shook my hand and my mom
kissed me on the cheek, and I drove away and they went back inside.
Mom had some recipes to copy and Dad had his checkbook to balance
and a game to watch on TV.
I went to school like I was supposed to, and I went to some parties and
I dated some girls, and it was all uneventful and boring, even to me.
I used to sit around, wondering.
Wondering what was the point. Of life. Of me, specifically. I mean,
was I put here for some reason? Or was I just filler for people with real
lives? An extra in a movie I'd never get to watch?
I graduated, I got some stupid job where I was put in a box and ignored
for most of the day, and then I'd go home to my little apartment
and be ignored in a different box, and nothing was anything, and none
of it mattered.
I did that for six years.
Six fuckin' years, kid. Sorry. Not kid.
Six fuckin' years, I lived like there was no reason for it.
And then the dead got restless.
And I was suddenly good at life.
I didn't care, you see?
It didn't mean anything to me. I've heard about people reacting to the
zombies, looking at them and freezing up or being horrified, whatever.
That wasn't me.
They're a vicious bunch of fuckers, and I guess they're scary. But
whatever it is that repulses everyone, horrifies them, I don't have that.
I had a job when I was sixteen, as a cashier at a grocery store. People
would show up with their giant baskets of groceries, and I'd scan things
and take money and give change, and none of it meant fuck-all to me.
I didn't care how many items they had, or how many coupons. I didn't
care about screaming kids, or paper or plastic, or what I was supposed to
offer as impulse items. I was on the clock, and my job was to get people
through the line, and that's what I did.
Some of the people I worked with, they wigged out, man. They'd get
flustered and angry and they'd lose their shit, start yellin' at customers,
or on their coworkers or even their bosses.
I'd just scan the items and clean up when I was supposed to, and none
of it ever bothered me.
That's what this is to me, that's what life is, that's what living is. Just
getting through it until my time-card is punched, and then saying goodbye.
I'm not scared, I'm not frazzled, I'm not one of those guys who contemplates
killing himself every night because he can't imagine living out
the rest of his days in this kind of world.
I wake up each morning, and I go out and I do what I need to
do—gather supplies or try to save survivors or kill zombies who are getting
too close to the perimeter.
I go out and I do that, and none of it bothers me, because this is what
I'm good at, this is what I'm supposed to do.
I'm sure they'll get me, one of these days. Like I said—I think they'll
get us all. I'll go down screaming in terror, just like everyone else. Or
maybe I'll just get bit, and I'll have to go down like a whimpering dog,
begging for life even though I know it's a lost cause.
But until then, I'll just keep goin'.
You know something? It's not the zombies that get you. Literally, it is,
of course. But what it really is that gets you is the fear. You freeze up, or
you make a bad decision, and it's because of the fear. Or the doubt
caused by fear.
Those guys who decide to swallow a bullet? Fear, plain and simple.
Fear that tomorrow won't be a better day, fear that this is all life will ever
be, fear that they won't be able to do the right thing when they have to.
They can't deal with it, so they make their own ending..
[You said earlier that the zombies were going to win, that we would be
erased, as a species. But right now it sounds like you're almost optimistic.
It sounds like you're saying that there will be a better day.]
No, there will never be a better day, not in that sense. It's just that I
ain't afraid of it. I try to enjoy myself as much as possible, live life as
much as I can. Maybe that means a cigarette, or a hard drink, or a soft
broad. Maybe it means a night reading a book about vampires—
remember when those pussies were the in-thing to be scared
of?—and then going to bed early.
Life sucks. Back in the day, some people had good lives, and some
people had bad lives. Now we all have shit lives, but our choices are still
the same: you either live or you die. I choose to live, and I choose to enjoy
it. Because there will be plenty of time for the alternative later.
That said, maybe tomorrow will be a better day. Maybe there will be
some chick who wants to hook up, or maybe I'll find a case of whiskey
while I'm out scouting. There will still be zombies—like I said, I think
there will always be zombies—but that doesn't mean you can't keep on
livin'. Hell, they do.
[You mentioned that whatever it is that horrifies people about the
walking dead, you don't have that. Would you care to elaborate?]
Sure, why not?
It happens. I mean, I see that shit happen like all the time. It can happen
with dudes who been out in the shit, guys who have seen some nastiness.
Sometimes, they'll see something that flicks their switch, and that's
it—they turn off like robots. Just stand there, sometimes just a blank look
on their face, sometimes crying or whatever. Saw one guy, he just started
singing a lullaby. I guess the zombie that was after him, it reminded him
of his kid or something? I don't know. Never got the chance to ask him
because he stood there singing until the kid walked over and bit him
right in the guts. He stopped singing then, and started screaming, but it
was too late—he was already infected. I put him down right before I
took out the kid who bit him.
Hell, maybe it was his kid, I don't know.
Or maybe it's because the thing was a kid—lots of people get a soft
spot about kids, even though they'll rip you apart just as fast as the
grown ones. Or maybe it was because the little bastard was all tore
up—looked like it'd been drug about twenty miles down a street full of
shit and broken glass.
Something set the guy off, though, and it happens all the time. People
freeze up, they lose their shit.
I don't. Admittedly, zombies are creepy as hell. You look 'em in their
dead eyes, it's like your soul's getting its nuts squeezed. It's against
everything, you know? Everything we've believed, everything we know
deep down to be true. They aren't pleasant to be around, is what I'm saying.
But they don't do that thing to me, that deer-in-the-headlights thing
they do to so many others.
Even the first time, when the people around me were losing their shit,
I took care of business. And since then, I've seen some pretty crazy shit,
but it's almost like I'm watching a movie—hell, maybe I'm just that desensitized,
I don't know—so it never screws with me too bad. I just don't
get scared, is the thing. Ever. Because I know I'm not gonna make it, I
know it, and I've accepted it—really, truly accepted it—and once you do
that, you find that being scared is kind of a stupid waste of time. Zombie
Zen, I guess you could say.
I've talked to some people, people much smarter than me—hell,
you've probably talked to them, too—and we've had lengthy discussions
about it. They all think I'm lying, they all think I'm trying to be a tough
guy.
But you know what? I'm not a tough guy. Sure, I play the part these
days, but if this thing had happened any other time, I'd probably be dead
right now.
I worked in an office, man. I played on the softball team, and I wasn't
all that great. Played racquetball with my boss once in a while, and he always
beat me, even if I didn't try to let him win.
I wasn't a jock, I wasn't a tough guy. I was just some guy who wrote
reports and typed on a computer and did all the other bullshit that a lot
of the world did, back then.
It was a hunting retreat. Team building exercise, me and my boss and
five other dudes. We had this lodge up in the mountains, we were there
from Friday until Sunday. No pay, because it was supposed to be like a
vacation.
I won't get into the whole story, because it's just like a million other
ones—we were caught off guard, didn't want to believe it. One of the
guys—Jake, Jack, something like that—he finds this fucked up looking
dude out while he's looking for deer.
And the guy was infected, of course, but none of us knew that. We just
thought he was sick and maybe suffering from malnutrition.
We brought him into the cabin and did our best to fix him up, and
tried to call the authorities. About the time we decided we should haul
his sick ass to town is about the time that he decided to start eating us.
It ripped a huge chunk out of Jack or Jake or whatever his name was.
Caught him in the chin, took a chunk out of his jawbone and everything.
Bastards crush in pretty easy under a bat or what have you, but they got
a bite like you wouldn't believe, right?
They all wigged out, trying to save the coworker, trying to restrain the
zombie. You seen 'em, you know how you can tell right away that they
aren't people anymore. They're fuckin' monsters. You see their eyes, you
know it.
My boss, my co-workers, they didn't get it. They thought this was
some guy, I don't know what the hell they were doing, really.
I still had my hunting rifle. The safety was on and the chamber was
empty, just like the instructor had told us, when he taught us how to use
the guns the day before. I chambered a round and shot the motherfucker,
right in one of those eyes that was giving me the willies so bad. It
dropped down dead, and about three seconds later, so did Jake.
Everyone's still panicking, trying to save him, trying to yell at me
about what the hell did I just do, I killed a man, how could I kill a man.
My boss was trying to do mouth-to-mouth on my dead co-worker, CPR
or whatever.
It bit his tongue off. He fell back, blood just spewing out of his mouth,
and…
Oh, I said I wasn't gonna tell the whole story didn't I?
Long story short, I killed the co-worker and my boss. One second, he
was begging me not to do it, to put the gun away. I just waited. The
second his eyes changed, the second he changed, I put him down.
My other co-workers called me crazy and promised to turn me in, and
I told them that was fine. The dead were rising, you know? That kind of
thing happens, life gets put into perspective.
For once in my life, I wasn't scared.
The rules of social engagement, of how to talk or how to smile or who
to be polite to, they didn't matter, all the sudden. I didn't have to worry
about driving through a stop sign and then being terrified that the cop
wouldn't like me. I didn't have to worry about my joke being sexually offensive,
I didn't have to worry about my choice in music being ethnically
incorrect. It didn't matter that my mom thought I should have already
married, it didn't matter if I felt like a pussy at the gym, it didn't matter if
I dropped my lunch tray in the work cafeteria and looked like an asshole.
Nothing stupid mattered anymore, you see?
It was kill or be killed, and everything else was fucking bullshit.
And you know what? That's how I got tough.
I was allowed to be a man again. I was allowed to be who I wanted to
be, who I needed to be, because there was nobody around to tell me that I
was doing it all wrong. There was nobody lecturing about my attitude,
or harping on me about being socially sensitive, politically correct. And
you know what? Left on my own devices, I didn't turn into some sort of
lawless nightmare. I turned into a man, because that's how I was gonna
survive.
I didn't know shit about guns, but it was easy enough to figure out.
The internet lasted a while, and I used it. Shitkicker town in Colorado, I
went to an unused library, killed the fuck out of all the zombies there,
and printed out anything useful I could think of, hauled it around with
me until I could read it all, and there you have it.
A few months in this world will turn just about anyone into a hardass.
They say I'm the best, right? That's why you came to find me? I
shouldn't be the best. I just happen to not give a fuck, and I can read.
Maybe there are guys out there who could have been better zombiekillers
than me.
I mean, I know there are. But maybe they were just a little different
than me: maybe they smoked, so they didn't have the endurance; or
maybe they weren't smart. Maybe they had emotional ties. Who knows?
The beauty of it is, it doesn't matter.
You got me. I'm the guy the ladies want to fuck, I'm the guy that guys
like you want to talk to.
I'm a legend, my friend. I don't think I deserve to be, and I can tell by
the look on your face that you don't feel I deserve it, either.
But that's the way it goes, kid.
If it makes you feel any better, I'm not quite as stupid as you might
think.
For instance, I noticed the bandage around your ankle as soon as you
stepped into the tent. I noticed that you stopped sneezing about my cigarettes
a while back. Oh, yeah, I saw your face when I said maybe I survived
due to endurance because I didn't smoke. I don't. But everyone has
a reaction to smoke being blown in their face. Everyone.
Yours was pretty intense, at first, coughing and scrunching up your
nose. But you didn't even notice the last three. They burned away in the
ashtray right under your nose, you didn't even notice. The air's so nasty
in here that I can barely breathe, and you didn't even notice. Surgeon
General actually got it wrong—cigarettes can actually save your life.
They're like a litmus test to tell who's about to change.
And you've gotten paler, kid. Sorry—not kid. Sir. You've gotten paler,
sir. I know the signs, I've seen them a million times.
Point is, you brought in a recorder and a transcriber. You know you're
going down. I figure you just wanted to be taken out by the best.
Look, I never been too good at saying goodbye, so
At this point, the interview subject pulled a pistol out of his boot and shot the
interviewer in the forehead. He looked at the transcriber for a moment and left
the tent. Thus concludes interview #898665
