"What's the worst thing you've ever done?"
I really should just ignore her. I'm about half a second from falling
asleep, she'd never know. It's not like she cares about the answer, anyway.
It's not like she needs to know. I really should just ignore her.
Instead, I open my eyes and roll my head just enough so that I can see
her naked body. She's not nestled against me like most girls do, but is instead
lying across me. We form an X on my bed, neither one of us very
comfortable, but both of us too fucked up to care. She's smoking a cigarette,
and I know for a fact that she's nowhere close to an ashtray, so I
have no idea where she's been flicking ash.
I take the cigarette out of her hand. It's almost spent, and judging by
how easily she releases it, I'm guessing she had no intention of finding
an ashtray.
I take a drag and feel the filter crush in just a bit, either because I'm
holding it too hard or because it's been smoked down to the end. I drop
the butt into an empty bottle and listen to the hiss as it's extinguished in
the remains of beer.
I reach over to the bedside table without looking, hoping to find the
pack, but instead, I find a bottle. I unscrew the top and dump liquor into
my mouth. I'm on my back, so it feels like I'm drowning myself. Metaphor
included.
I put the bottle back and my hand bumps into a pack of cigarettes.
Another second of searching, and I've found the lighter, too.
"Well?" she asks, once I have my cigarette lit.
"What's the worst thing you've ever done?" I ask her.
"I asked you first. You tell me, then I'll tell you."
"Is this really the kind of thing you want to discuss? We barely even
know each other."
"I find there's a certain honesty that comes from sharing things with
strangers."
"Are we strangers?"
"Well, we're not not strangers."
I take a drag of my cigarette and shrug as much as I can with her on
top of me. "When I was about ten years old, we had this dog… "
Nobody liked the dog. She barked all the time, she was stupid, and she
chewed on everything. I don't just mean like your shoes or the remote
control. I mean like she chewed on everything. She chewed up the siding
on the house, she chewed up the lawn mower under the carport, she
chewed up the wooden fence that kept her contained.
As fast as you could fix something, she'd fuck it up.
Muffin, that was her name. She wasn't really a bad dog, she was just a
puppy, and had all kinds of energy. None of us wanted to play with her,
though, because she was such a fuck-stupid mess. She'd get all excited
and pee all over the place, or bite you when you tried to pet her. She
didn't bite in a mean way, she just wanted to play. You'd scold her for
biting, and she just thought it was another way to play.
My mom got the dog, and none of us knew why. We never had pets
for long when I was a kid. Either they died or they ran away, or my mom
would get tired of them and have them put to sleep. She really liked having
pets, in theory.
In practicality, they never seemed to work out.
As for us kids, we generally didn't get too attached. You grow up
watching all of your pets die or go missing, you learn not to get too sentimental
about things.
So how it'd go is, my mom would bring these animals home, and the
family would tolerate them until she got tired of upkeep, or until dog
food became too much of a cost.
She was a single mother, and for most of my life, she worked two jobs.
She didn't need the responsibility of another mouth to feed, but every six
months or so, she'd forget that fact, and bring home something soft and
cuddly.
A couple months later, the dog would go back to the pound, or the cat
would go to a farm somewhere—people in the country always need
more barn cats, on account of the coyotes getting them on a pretty regular
basis.
But this dog, fuckin' Muffin, for some reason, my mom wouldn't get
rid of her. It was like she had something to prove, I don't know. The
more this dog fucked shit up, the harder my mom worked to make sure
we kept it.
At one point, the dog ate through the fence, then ate through the
neighbor's fence, and chewed up all of the toddler's yard toys—a plastic
sandbox shaped like a turtle, a bunch of plastic buckets and shovels and
stuff, and one of those little things that kids use before they figure out
the logistics of tricycles. It was shaped like a train, and there were buttons
all over the steering wheel, you could push them and they'd make
noises. The seat lifted up, and you could store stuff in there.
Muffin tore the shit out of all that stuff, just annihilated it. Chewed up
their screen door, too.
The neighbors were really nice about it, but they made it clear they
were pretty nervous about the fact that this dog could pretty much break
into their home any time it wanted. Also, they didn't have the money to
replace all the stuff that had been damaged.
My mom had to get a weekend job at the gas station so she could afford
to pay for the damages. She already had a full time job during the
week, and a second job during the evenings and weekends, so the only
time available was the graveyard shift.
I don't know how the hell she did it—five days a week, she'd work
customer service at a lumber yard, and then go wait tables from six until
eleven. On weekends, she'd wait tables for the first eight hours of the
day, and then go work at the gas station.
In retrospect, I think about how hard that must have been for her. At
the time, I just knew she was never around. Never around to pick me up
from school, never around to help me with my homework, never around
for anything.
The other kids, they had help with their science projects, with their
book reports. I was lucky if my mom remembered to give me lunch
money, or sign my report cards.
It was a Saturday. I had mixed feelings about my birthday being on a
Saturday, because on one hand, I realized that I would get more of a celebration
if my birthday had happened on a school day—at least then,
there'd be singing, and maybe the teacher would get me a cupcake. On
the other hand, I held onto the hope that since it was the weekend, and
since my mom had paid off the neighbors, since she didn't have to work
weekends anymore, maybe I'd get a party at home.
I waited around until about two in the afternoon. She hadn't mentioned
anything about my birthday, and I didn't see a box of cake mix or
anything in the cupboard, so I was starting to wonder if she had any
plans at all.
She was out in the back yard, digging holes for corner posts. After
paying back the neighbors, she had decided to construct a chain-link
fence instead of the wooden slats that Muffin used as chew toys.
I was at the table, drawing, when she came in for a drink of water.
"Mamma?"
"What?"
"Are we… am I getting a birthday party?"
"We'll talk about it later."
"Later when?"
"Later when it's closer to your birthday."
"But today's my birthday."
She sighed an angry sigh. I like to think that maybe there was some
hurt in there, too, maybe a little self-disgust. But who knows?
"I don't have any money for a party. I had to buy those four-by-fours
and the chain-link. Your dog spent all the party money."
"Don't you call her that! Don't call her my dog! I hate that stupid dog,
we all do! You're the only one who wants her. You spend all your time
fixing the stuff she messes up and you spend all the money on her, too!"
I was crying. I didn't want to be, and I didn't know I was going to do
it, but I could feel the tears pouring down my cheeks, dripping off my
face as I screamed at her.
"I hate that dog, and I wish she was dead!"
My mom threw her glass against the wall, and I flinched; closed my
eyes and waited—usually when she started throwing glasses, it meant
you were about to get a slap in the face. Instead, I heard her leave the
kitchen.
Her footsteps were angry as she stomped through the trailer, back to
her bedroom. When she came back, she was holding a pistol. It was a .38
that my last step-dad had left behind. He used to get drunk and show it
to me, explain to me about how if you loaded it with the right kind of
bullets, it'd blow a man's head clean off his neck.
My mom slammed the gun onto the table. "You want her dead, fine!
Go out there and kill her! I'm tired of this shit! I sacrifice everything for
you kids, I try to give you a happy life, and all you do is complain. So if
you don't want a dog, you go out there and you shoot her, and we'll never
have another goddam pet in this house again!"
I reached down and picked up the gun. I snapped it open, just like I'd
seen my step-dad do all those times, and I checked to make sure there
were bullets—rounds, he always called them—in the cylinder.
I closed it and looked up at her.
"Quit wastin' time! You think it's so easy, you think everything's so
damn easy, you try to do it, you try to have some responsibility."
"Okay, I will."
She scoffed and rolled her eyes and shook her head. She walked back
to the sink and began filling a new glass with water.
I walked out the front door and to the end of the trailer, the end that
was usually fenced in with wooden pickets.
We'd had to put Muffin on a chain until my mom could afford the
chain-link, and since she couldn't get close enough to destroy anything
else, she had turned her energy onto the ground. Every inch of the
ground within her reach had been dug up.
The earth was bare of grass, and about a foot lower than the area outside
her diameter. It smelled like dog pee and shit and polluted soil.
I heard the door slam open behind me, heard my mother yell my
name. She sounded a little worried, but mostly she sounded annoyed—
pissed off that I had added yet another hardship to her life. I
continued walking.
"Ray! Get back in here! You're gonna hurt yourself!"
I ignored her. Muffin was going batshit, barking and running and
jumping all around, most of the time choking herself because she was
too stupid to figure out the distance of chain she had holding her to the
ground. I walked right up to the edge, right where she couldn't jump up
on me or bite me.
She peed all over her leg, looked down in surprise, and licked at it until
she remembered I was there. When she looked back up, I pointed the
gun into her face. She licked the barrel, and I hated her more than I've
ever hated anything.
I heard my mom scream my name again, this time using first, middle,
and last, which always meant I was in trouble.
I squeezed the trigger. Squeeze, don't pull, that's what my step-dad always
told me when he showed me the gun.
The noise was so much more than I ever expected, but the recoil
wasn't nearly as bad. It felt like my eardrums exploded along with
Muffin's head.
Her body did this weird thing, it like jumped and flopped all over itself
for a second, and then fell to the ground twitching. She wasn't dead
yet—I'd only blown off half her head. She whimpered and her tongue
was flapping all over the place, into the mud formed by her drool and
blood.
My mom screamed something, I don't know what because I was still
mostly deaf. I stepped up to Muffin, and her remaining eye looked up at
me. She looked more intelligent in that moment than she ever had in the
eight months we'd had her. And I could hear her whimpering, even over
the ringing in my ears.
I took careful aim and shot her a second time.
I don't know what was going through my head, I really don't. From
the moment my mom slammed that pistol down on the table, it's like I
wasn't even myself. I'm sure I was feeling something, right? I'm sure I
was thinking something.
But it doesn't feel like I was. None of it feels like it was even me. In my
memory, it's like I'm watching a movie. It doesn't seem real.
What I did next was, I put the gun against my head. Right up against
my temple, and I pressed hard. It slipped a little because the muzzle was
all bloody, and there was quite a lot of splatter on my face and head, as
well.
I turned to tell my mom goodbye, I do remember that, I remember
wanting to tell her goodbye, like that would make her not worry about
me being gone.
And right when I turned, that's when she hit me. I don't know how she
did it, but she managed to knock away the gun and catch me a good one
in the face. It was an open-handed slap, but it knocked me on my ass,
and left most of my face numb. She dropped to her knees beside what
was left of Muffin. She reached out like she was going to pet the corpse,
but she didn't touch it.
The ringing was fading, and I heard her sobbing. At first, it just sounded
like crying, but then I could make out words. There weren't that
many to make out.
"You monster, you horrible little monster."
That's what she kept saying, over and over again. Even though she
was looking at Muffin, I knew she was talking to me.
I stood up and went inside. I wiped myself off with a paper towel—we
were only supposed to use them when we had to, and I figured this
counted. My little brother came out from our back bedroom, carrying
two He-Man action figures we'd found at a garage sale for ten cents.
"Go back and play," I told him. "It's okay."
"I heard mamma yelling."
"She's mad at me."
"The cops showed up, and the neighbors came over to see what had
happened. My mom convinced them that it was a horrible accident—I
had found the gun and didn't realize it was real. Took it outside to play
with my dog. They all bought that. It looked bad, but not as bad as the
truth."
She's not sprawled over me anymore. During the course of the story,
she has gotten up and put on a t-shirt and a pair of panties.
"You just went out and killed your pet?"
"Sort of, yeah."
"And that doesn't… .you don't feel bad about it?"
"I never really felt anything about it."
"Oh my gawd! That's like… that's so messed up! Please tell me you're
lying."
I shrug. "I'm lying."
"Are you really?" She seems to settle at the idea.
"Yeah—that wasn't the worst thing I've ever done."
She pulls on her jeans. "Dude. You are fucked up. I'm outta here."
She's almost to the door when I say, "Hey!"
"What?"
"You didn't tell me yours. What's the worst thing you've ever done?"
"The worst thing I've ever done is fuck you, you sicko!"
She slams the door behind her, leaving me with a room full of
thoughts I don't want.

