Harold Lutz squinted in concentration over his glasses as he added
a ribbon to the dark curls of the busty maiden on the front of the ship.
He pursed his lips for a moment, grunted in satisfaction, then set down
the tiny paintbrush and reached for the jar of varnish. It wasn’t until she
walked into the basement that Harold realized Alice was shouting at
him.
“Are you down here again?” she asked, even though the answer
was obvious.
“Harold, I asked you to mow the lawn today. Violet and Margaret
are picking me up for bridge tonight, and I won’t have our yard
looking like something out of the Wild Kingdom. Honestly, I don’t
know why I even bother asking you.”
She paused to inhale, but before she could start again Harold
stood up, apologized meekly, and shuffled past his wife and up the
stairs.
“And don’t forget to use the rake,” she called out behind him.
The lawnmower jostled for space in the tool shed with Alice’s potting
soil, two cans of yellow house paint, assorted garden hoses, and a
rusty bicycle. Harold wiggled it away from the bicycle and rolled it
around the side of the house and through the weathered gate into the
front yard. He adjusted his glasses, then leaned over and gave a sharp
tug on the pull cord. Three more times, and the engine sputtered and
coughed itself into life.
Alice was yelling something from the porch.
“Harold, I said don’t forget to sweep the sidewalk.” She paused
and took a drink from her iced tea. “You always forget to sweep the
sidewalk. It’s part of the yard too, you know.” She turned and let the
screen door slam behind her.
Harold muttered “yes, dear,” and wiped the sweat from his forehead
with his sleeve. Then he straightened his glasses and walked back
to the shed to get the broom and the rake.
By the time he finished up, Violet and Margaret were just pulling
into the driveway. Alice called out over her shoulder that she’d be home
late, and Harold waved as the three of them drove off. He wondered if
Alice had left any of that iced tea. Turning back to his pile of grass clippings,
he loaded them into the trash can and lugged the can back behind
the shed.
He squinted in the afternoon glare as he dragged the can back into
place and pushed it up against the wall with his foot. Alice didn’t like
the trash cans to block the walkway between the shed and her
rhododendrons. He grabbed the other can and moved it a little to one
side. Satisfied, he brushed off his hands. He turned to go back inside
and noticed the ants.
Must have disturbed them, he thought. The ground around the
can was a scurrying mass of alarmed activity. He squatted down and
peered over the tops of his glasses. They were just regular black ants, the
kind boys feed grasshoppers to, or zap with their magnifying glasses.
He grinned and rocked the trash can back and forth a few times. The
ants scurried back and forth, sending out their silent alarm.
“Earthquake!” he said, and chuckled.
He watched for a moment more, then stood up and walked back
to the house. He was relieved they weren’t sugar ants. He thought
about ant poison and a trip to the hardware store. This was followed by
the thought of the unfinished Santa Maria, and he immediately remembered
his unvarnished poop deck and tiny paintbrushes. He hurried
inside, carefully closing the backdoor behind him.
At work the next day, it occurred to him that he liked shipbuilding
better than his job. Harold was in accounting, and had been for the
past 34 years. He never really liked it, he thought. He didn’t even care
when Artie Graham got promoted after “old man” Ross had retired. He
told Alice he thought it was probably for the best.
Alice didn’t think it was for the best.
“I don’t understand you Harold, I really don’t,” she said, and
waved her fork for emphasis. “You told me yourself that Bill Ross was
looking for a replacement. And you stood there and let him pick that
child?”
Harold focused on his meatloaf.
“Why Harold? Don’t you think I deserve a nice car like Violet?
Or to be able to wear a new dress just once in a while?” Her voice was
getting louder.
“Of course, who am I talking to? You’ve never stood up to anyone
in your whole life.” Her eyes started to fill with tears.
“Nobody respects you Harold. Not Bill, and certainly not Artie
Graham. And you know what? I—”
She caught herself and stared at Harold quietly chewing his
meatloaf.
“You’re just hopeless,” she finally spat out. She pushed back her
chair and went into the kitchen.
Harold sat and finished his meatloaf while Alice banged the pots
and pans in the sink. “You could at least take the trash out,” she finally
said.
Harold walked into the kitchen and took the pail out from under
the sink while Alice stood to one side, glaring. She closed the cabinet
door with her foot and went back to clanking plates in the sink. Harold
stood watching her back for a moment, then shrugged and stepped out
the back door.
The cool air on the back porch felt good after the warm day. It
smelled faintly of lawn and the neighbor’s barbecue grill. He looked
over at the garden shed and remembered that he needed to put the grass
clippings out with the trash on Tuesday. With a sigh, he eased down the
steps and carried the trash pail over to the can behind the shed.
The ants had gotten there first. Harold squinted at the wriggling
stream coming from the large hill on the ground and flowing improbably
up the side of the can and under the lid. He clucked his tongue and lifted
the lid for a closer look.
He set the pail down and examined the anthill. It was bigger than
he remembered it. On a whim, he took the pen out of his pocket and
pushed it into the ground near the entrance. Immediately, a group of
scouts emerged, heads raised and ready for battle. Harold pushed up
his glasses and smiled. “En guard,” he said and jousted three or four
with the tip of his pen.
“Harold, are you ever coming back in?”
Alice’s voice startled him, and he dropped the pen.
“I need the trash pail.”
It wasn’t until work the next day that he remembered his pen.
Artie asked him to check on the Dupree account, and when he went to
sign it out, he realized his pen was gone. He patted all of his pockets,
searching, then remembered the anthill. He frowned. Alice didn’t like
ants. He’d have to do something to get rid of them.
“Is there something wrong Mr. Lutz?” Mrs. Doyle asked.
Harold looked up and realized he’d been daydreaming. “Oh, I’m
sorry,” he said, “I was thinking about some chores I need to do around
the house.”
“Well, it’s nice to hear a man at least thinking about chores. It’s
all I can do to get my Tom to mow the lawn.” She winked at him from
behind her horned-rim glasses.
“Yes,” Harold replied, and took a pen from her desk and initialed
the register. “But we can’t all be ants Mrs. Doyle. The summer needs a
few grasshoppers.” She laughed her horsey laugh, and he took the
folder and went back to his desk.
Alice was out when he got home. Tuesdays were book club night
and trash night. Alice took care of the first, and Harold took care of the
second. He unlocked the front door, took off his hat and set down his
briefcase, then quickly changed out of his suit and tie and into his work
clothes. Then it was through the kitchen and down into the basement.
He flicked on the light switch and looked over at the gleaming white
sails of the Santa Maria. Taped to the main mast was a large yellow
piece of paper. It said “TRASH!”
Harold looked at the note then checked his watch, then looked
back at the note. He gingerly removed the tape, stuffed the note in his
pocket, then turned off the light and slowly climbed the stairs again.
Out at the shed, he put on his work gloves, then went around the
side and jerked the handle of the can full of grass clippings. He halfdragged,
half-carried it up the cement stairs and down the walkway to
the street, then returned for the trash can. He grabbed it and hauled it to
the curb, muttering and cursing under his breath then went back to the
shed to take off his gloves. They were swarming with ants.
“Eechhh,” he said in annoyance, and shook the gloves off. Instinctively,
he checked his arms and clothes, then scratched a sudden itch
behind his left ear. Satisfied, he looked down at his gloves. The ants had
regrouped, and were streaming together back behind the shed. He followed
them, and rubbed his eyes when he saw it.
The anthill was still there, but larger than last time. Ants moved
in a steady flow in and out of the entrance, some carrying food, others
sand or debris. But the entrance was different. His pen was standing
erect to one side, and there was a group of soldiers surrounding it.
He leaned down and examined the scene. Four ants had made a
square around the pen, with each one standing motionless in a corner. A
little beyond that, dozens of ants marched together, forming a living
circle around it. He reached out for the pen, but hesitated when he saw
the circle slow to a stop. Slender feelers touched one another, uncertain,
then one ant broke off and scurried down the hill and towards Harold’s
shoe. He waited, curious.
The ant approached the sole of his shoe cautiously, pausing every
few inches to wave its feelers in the air before moving forward again.
Harold stood perfectly still, not wanting to frighten it off. Finally it
seemed to gather its courage and climbed up the shoe. It stopped, facing
him. It raised its feelers and front legs. Then it turned and climbed
down and crawled eagerly back to the circle. Harold chuckled.
“I hope this means we can be friends,” he said.
The ants seemed to hear him, and started the march around the
pen again.
He stood up and looked around sheepishly. Then he chuckled
again, and watched the pulsing circle of ants until the fading sunlight
made it too hard to see.
Harold sped home from work the next day, dropped his briefcase
at the front door, and changed into his work clothes before he even said
hello to Alice.
“You’re home early,” she said as he passed through the kitchen.
“I’ve got some things I needed to do around the house.”
“Well, that’s a first,” she said. Then, without turning around, she
added “And don’t bother rushing so you can get back to your toys.”
Harold froze.
“What’s that?”
“I said don’t bother rushing your work outside so you can spend
all your time in the basement with that damn boat of yours. I threw it
away.”
Harold’s hands started to sweat and he felt slightly sick. He
pushed up his glasses and said “N-Now see here Alice, I—”
“No Harold, you see here!”
She took a step forward and pointed her finger at him. “I’m sick
and tired of you wasting your days and nights on these ridiculous hobbies
while other husbands are improving themselves. Do you think
Artie Graham plays with toy boats? Ridiculous!”
“W-What did you do Alice?” He looked like an outclassed boxer.
“I told you, I threw it away. Right in the trashcan.” She brushed
her hands for effect.
“And another thing,” she held up her finger and shook it at him.
“There is an enormous anthill behind the shed. While you’re outside
you can take that can of gasoline and get rid of them.”
Harold blinked slowly. He mouthed something like a fish gasping
for air, but no sound came out.
Alice tapped him in the chest. “An anthill Harold. Get rid of it.”
She stared hard at him until she was satisfied, then turned back to
the sink, muttering. “Nasty, disgusting creatures.”
Harold took a step towards the door, then stopped. He looked at
the doorknob for a full minute, then turned around. He stared at Alice
standing at the sink in her green housedress and apron, then blinked
several times.
“What?” Alice growled.
Harold’s face was cold, but his voice was soft and warm. “What
anthill?”
She turned to face him. “Don’t tell me you haven’t seen that gigantic
anthill behind the shed?”
Harold shook his head dully.
“Do you think I’m an idiot?”
Harold shook his head again. “No Alice, I just didn’t see any anthill
when I was out there yesterday.”
She glared at him.
“You’re the idiot!” she finally screamed, and untied her apron.
“Come on,” she said and stomped down the stairs. Harold followed
her out the back door and back to the shed.
She got there before him and jerked the empty trash can out of the
way.
“Right there Harold! Do you see it now?” She grabbed his arm
and pulled him in front of the anthill.
“What do you call that Harold?” She pulled over the other can
and pushed it away with her foot. “And that? What do you call it
Harold?”
He looked down. In the light he thought he could just make out
the circle of ants. They were still marching, guarding their monument.
Harold looked around. It was later than he thought. The air was still
warm, but it was getting dark.
“What do you call it?” she asked again, pounding his arm with
her fist.
“Friends,” he finally said, and reached out with both hands and
squeezed Alice’s neck until he couldn’t squeeze anymore. Then he
crouched down and whispered.
“Dinnertime.”
