Abraham edged towards the body. The gun lay broken across the
crook of his arm, the spent shells lying in the mud some ten feet behind
him. There was still the faint smell of gunpowder in the air, but the
breeze was taking care of that. A fresher smell, blood perhaps, rode the
breeze towards him and he used his spare hand to stop his nostrils before
the smell made him lose his breakfast. He nudged the body with
the toe of his boot, leaving traces of muddy water on the pale skin, the
fine hair there streaking into darker lines where the water ran.
The body was torn by a hole in the chest, its edges still running with
blood. Traces of silver shot were visible in the depths of the wound, and
they smoked like tiny meteors in the darkness. The rising of the chest
was so faint as to be almost imperceptible, but it was there. Abraham’s
training allowed him to see it, to hear the ragged breaths as they passed
the jaws, still heavily furred and dripping pink frothy saliva. The eyes
were open still, and as he bent towards them, blocking the sunlight, the
pupils expanded until the iris was almost invisible. A blink. The tongue
snaked around the jaws, mopping the saliva, wetting the teeth as if preparing
for a final bite. Was there recognition in those eyes? Abraham
thought not. He twitched almost imperceptibly, and an urge to urinate
almost overcame him. His eyes blurred at the sight of so much blood,
and he swallowed saliva continuously. An itching began deep in his
bones as if they were attempting to re-knit themselves. He ignored it,
pushed it away. He blinked his eyes to clear the blurring and looked
down at the fallen creature.
It began to stir. Abraham took this as his cue to stand. He reloaded
the weapon, the shells prepared early that morning. As the body rose,
its body human, its feet and hands still clawed and covered with wiry
hair, as its jaws began their relentless champing anew, Abraham fired.
The body fell once more; feet slender and elegant, its hands once more
five-fingered and pale. Abraham knelt beside it, brushing the hair from
above its eyes, exposing a broad forehead, upon which blood had
sprayed like a red fan. He crossed himself and spoke.
‘My brother,’ he said, and removed the gloves that he used to load the
weapon.
It took little more than five minutes to remove the head and bury it
along with hands and feet in a shallow grave some distance from the
body. The skin had turned a mottled grey in death, and Abraham’s knife
cut through skin and bone and muscle and sinew like it was so much
curd wrapped in cheese cloth. He marked the grave simply, with a twisted
crucifix of green willow and sprinkled the site with a few drops of
his own blood from a vial around his neck. He left the wood as light fell
around him, stopping only to urinate against a tree, the pungent yellow
liquid steaming in the cooling air. Abraham allowed himself a smile and
marked a notch onto the butt of his weapon with a sharp fingernail. Its
white streak became a twin for the one already there, although that one
was darkening. He began to whistle as he walked, and soon the last tree
was far behind him, leafy paths turned to black tarmac and the lights of
the city began to call to him.
‘Leave the bottle,’ he growled at the barman. He had taken a table in
the bar farthest from the window and threw his feet up onto the stool opposite.
Dried mud and leaves rained to the stained floor, although they
did little to dirty the place further. Abraham poured a generous splash
of vodka and drank it down in one, using his tongue to gather a few
stubborn drops of the icy, syrupy liquid from his glass. He waited. The
vodka warmed him from within and he replenished his glass, sipping
this time to extend the life of his drink. He may be here all night. His
gun lay fully loaded under the table, in a holdall alongside another
dozen shells. Traces of silver dust coated them all so that to see them in
the light gave them an unearthly sheen, as though they were coated in
moonlight. He nudged the bag lightly with his foot, as if to assure himself
that it was still there. As he drank, he stroked a finger along a long
scar down his forearm. It shone pink against the tanned skin there, and
no hair grew over it. It was a stark reminder that to let your guard down
was to invite death. The gash, caused by the claws of another of Abraham’s
brothers, (the first he had eventually killed, notch number one),
had bled for three straight days, and by the end, Abraham was in danger
of dying from the infection and blood loss. He proved strong enough
however, and in time the wound healed. He took it as a sign, and took
time to study it before and after he hunted. Just to remember.
Of Abraham’s four brothers, two lay dead, one still cooling in the
earth. Of the two remaining alive, Marten was the oldest and largest.
He sat in his Ford Mustang watching Abraham through the window of
the bar. His lip curled defensively up from his teeth and a low growl escaped
him. He drummed his fingers impatiently on the steering wheel.
‘Come on, brother, come out where I can have you,’ he whispered to
no one in particular. He meant to end Abraham’s life tonight, but as
much as he wanted it, dreamt about it in fact, he couldn’t do it in full
view of the bar. People just would not understand. He considered calling
home, arranging a rendezvous with one of his girls, but it had taken
nearly a week to track his brother and he did not want to let him out of
his sight now. He checked the time. It had just gone ten, and the moon
hung like a glass eye above him. Marten rolled the sleeves up on his
shirt, noted the coarse hair on his forearms and cursed. Too damn much.
‘Come on, Abraham. I will not come in for you,’ he whispered again.
He felt the familiar stirrings in his gut, a buzzing in his head like the onset
of tinnitus. He shook his head, and was alarmed at the spit that flew
from his mouth. Already? He cursed again and checked himself in the
rear view mirror. His eyes had gone grey. They were ringed with gold,
and his eyelashes were thick and black. Even as he watched his cheeks
began to hollow. He growled. Too damn late! He wrenched the car into
gear and roared away from the bar. At least he now knew Abraham’s
movements. There would be other nights.
Inside the bar, Abraham smiled. He stood and slung his holdall over
his shoulder. He could smell burning rubber from Marten’s tyres, and
even the vodka hadn’t dimmed his senses so much that he hadn’t been
able to sense his brother from the second he pulled up outside. Marten
did nothing to disguise his musk, and the raw sound of his breathing
was audible even through the walls of the bar. Abraham left the bar.
Rain had begun to fall, washing out the clarity of his sight so that it appeared
he was looking at the world through a veil. It slicked the dark
hair to his scalp, on the backs of his hands. He followed a trail of rubber
on the tarmac, and when that faded, he followed the heat from the car’s
exhaust, and when that faded, he followed his nose. Marten was the
easiest to track, but would be by no means the easiest to kill. He would
have preferred to take on Simon first, the only other surviving brother,
but he would take them as and when the opportunity arose. He looked
at the moon through the rain, and closed his eyes against both the iridescent
orb, and against the buzzing that had begun in his head. Too much
vodka, he thought. He pushed the buzzing away deep down in himself,
willed the itching that irritated his very marrow to cease. Once again in
control of himself, he walked on.
The house loomed out of the darkness. He approached it from the
front, content that Marten and the girls would be safely ensconced in the
cellars. He could smell their musk on the wind, and in it, he could
discern eight in all. So he had gathered another one. Abraham smiled
again, mindful of the tautness across his face that he was sure hadn’t
been so pronounced only days ago. He had to be quick. He pulled his
gloves on, smoothing the tight leather so that they almost formed a
second skin, and pulled his shotgun from the holdall. He check the
chambers, content that he had loaded it before entering the bar, but
checking anyway, loving the smell of gunpowder and silver that rose
from the dark metal barrel. The itching in his bones began anew, and
this time he let it come. His head buzzed, familiarly, and he shook the
noise out like it was a fly in his ear. He flexed his hands and felt the
seam at the tip of one finger split. He stared at the frayed cotton and
smiled.
‘My brothers,’ he whispered. ‘It ends tonight.’ He turned towards the
side door of the house.
He felt the approach through his feet rather than heard it, and because
he wasn’t relying of the slow passage of sound through the air, he was
able to anticipate, turn and deflect the worst of the blow that came pummelling
down on him through the night air. It was Simon. His eyes
glowed bright silver and there were tufts of coarse hair sprouting from
his hands and forearms. He was hunched as if his back was bowed, and
from his mouth, along with the frothy spit and curses, came a steadily
rising howl that set the hair on Abraham’s neck standing. The itching intensified,
and he found his hand could barely form a fist around the trigger
of the gun. Simon had backed off after the initial attack, to better assess
his opponent’s position, and found he was staring into death itself.
Abraham used the delay to leap backwards, holding the shotgun
trained on Simon the whole time. He dropped to his knee and steadied
the gun across the bridge of one arm and held its weight easily with the
other. His eyes widened as the shotgun fired, and he cursed as he followed
the trail of the silver shot over Simon’s bowed head. His brother
wasted no time and renewed his attack, transforming as he came. Hair
thickened, and the face that had once thrilled Abraham in its ability to
open the legs of so many willing girls, sagged, stretched and broke apart
with the arrival of the beast. The hunched back cracked audibly and
lengthened, pushing hair through the ruined shirt. Feet and hands became
clawed, furred things. The curses that spat from Simon’s mouth almost
liquidly dissolved into growls. It took no more than the leaping attack
to complete his change. He stood facing Abraham, a huge wolf,
snarling and snapping at the very air as if to use it to drag his brother
closer to the ravening jaws. Abraham kept his eyes on the creature,
amazed as always when one of his brothers changed, but no less intent
on ending him. He feigned a jump back, and as Simon hunched to leap
at him, he stood suddenly and threw the shotgun over itself so that he
was holding the barrel, brandishing it like a club. The wolf came in
range and Abraham brought the stock of the shotgun clean down upon
the wide brow bone. A single whimper escaped the wolf’s jaws, and the
life went out of it. He shook as he reloaded, and bent briefly to stroke
the blood-matted fur on his brother’s head.
‘Brave one,’ he whispered and crossed himself. He shot Simon dead,
the silver shot smoking as it passed through the brain and neck. He
looked down at the ruin at his feet, and reloaded once more. He scanned
the house for movement, saw none. He tightened his fists again, so
alarmed at the splits in the gloves that he cast them off. He closed his
eyes and willed the itching to cease, willed the buzzing in his head to
abate for just a few moments more.
He made to move for the house, forgetting the corpse of his brother,
now fully human, fully dead. He stopped only to urinate on the side of
the house, a great steaming arc of yellow in the night, obliterating the
stench already smeared there. Marten. It was his house after all.
‘I’m coming, brother,’ he said to himself, flexing his hands as if to
drive the feelings away.
Marten heard the shot, felt the loss of his brother as he had felt the loss
of all his younger siblings. Abraham. There was just the two of them left
now. He pushed the girl away from his lap, and she turned to mewl at
him like a cat. He bared his teeth and growled. She quietened and slunk
back to his harem, content to nuzzle and caress there.
Abraham should never have got so close. Had he taken on too many
for his harem? Were they clouding him? And not one had yet provided
him his progeny. Marten was furious but knew that he had strength on
his side. And of course, Abraham thought he still had surprise on his
side. Marten laughed. The girls looked up suddenly at this change in
him, smiles forming briefly. The smiles died as they saw the fierce grey
glint in his eyes, recognised the twitching skin and thickening hair that
signal Marten’s own elaborate change. They went back to their business,
unwilling to draw his attention this time. He howled.
Marten bounded across the room, a great black wolf, eyes glowing
silver-grey. His hands and feet were the last to change, the pale skin
drawing back like a drawn curtain, revealing thickly furred, clawed
paws that resembled those of a wolf, only bigger. The claws were longer
and sharper. His bones creaked as he ran, the burrowing itch fading
only as the transformation completed. He stopped suddenly and turned
to look at his girls. They shrank away from him, a growing murmur
coming from them as they admired him, feared him, desired him. He
was their lord. He was their love. They fell upon each other, biting and
kissing and licking and shrieking their delight as he looked at each of
them in turn. Marten could hear their shrieks as he left the room and
tore up the long flight of stairs that led to the main house. He heard the
cries turn to barks and howls as he ran, his sharp ears picking out each
girl, his lightning mind turning their face over and over, remembering
their smell, their place. As much as was possible to him now, he smiled.
It would end tonight.
The wolf approached Abraham slowly, its head fixed, as if its grey
eyes were attached to his with an invisible cord. Abraham, to his credit,
stayed his ground, although the wolf, even on all fours, could have
pressed its nose into his chest.
‘Brother, we can be only one. As it has always been, so it is now.’ he
whispered, nodding deferentially. The wolf’s tail twitched and raised
high above its back, the hackles joining its base to the mane at its neck
standing as though electrified. Abraham knew that this was exactly
what his brother was feeling. Electricity. For a moment he felt insanely
jealous, but then remembered his duty here. His hands groped at the
trigger on the shotgun almost blindly, and he pushed hard down within
himself, quelling the insane itching that threatened to undo him from
within. The wolf edged forward, it head lowered, spittle drooling from
the black lips, eyelids half closed. Abraham took the moment of quiet
and swung the gun around to the front, pulling the trigger almost
simultaneously.
The roar from the gun was tremendous, matching easily the roar from
his wounded brother. Blood flecked the wall behind the wolf, the
wound in his shoulder dripping onto the hard wood floor. The wolf’s
front paws skidded in the mess and he clattered his sharp claws trying to
find purchase. Abraham knew he had no time to reload, and threw the
gun down, reaching instead to his coat pocket. The knife there was
ebony handled, with a blade of silver. He brushed against the cutting
edge and it sank in to him. He smelled the raw smoke of burning skin
and withdrew his hand quickly. He thrust in again, having realised the
blade’s geography in his pocket, and this time grasped the handle firmly
and withdrew the knife. All this happened in a matter of seconds, and in
that time, the wolf’s wound had closed, the blood dried to a crust in his
fur. He faced Abraham, strengthened by the pain and fear, and the lips
drew back to reveal gums as black as night, threaded through here and
there with flecks of pink. The wolf’s teeth dripped with saliva, and his
tongue lolled to taste the air. A low growl had begun deep in his chest,
and Abraham matched it with his own, the combatants both showing
their readiness to fight. It was Abraham who struck first, not content to
give his brother the edge. The knife sliced through skin and fur and
gristle, opening a ghastly wound in the creature’s flank. Again the smell
of gunpowder and scorched hair filled the room. The wolf howled his
pain, and flinched away from the bite of the silver, snapping at Abraham’s
hands as he went. The second bite took skin and blood with it,
and Abraham clutched the injured limb to his chest, growling deeper.
The itching was unbearable now and he shook his head violently to dislodge
it. A fierce buzzing had started in his ears, and he used his uninjured
hand to wipe a sheen of pink sweat from his face. Even through
the haze of hormonal battle, he could hear the rasp of his hand against
the stubble. He shouted his anger and was alarmed at the barking
sound.
The wolf came in low, snatching at the cloth of his jeans, snapping and
tearing so that his leg was laid bare in seconds. He dodged the next
thrust, bringing the knife down hard with both hands, ignoring the
swelling pain in one of them. The blade struck bone this time and the
wolf screamed. Hot breath steamed the air, and Abraham smelled meat
and blood and fear. He prised the blade free and struck again. He
dropped the blade suddenly, unable to hold the blood-slicked handle.
The wolf was still, breathing heavily, coughing blood in a violent pink
mist before it, and Abraham took his chance. He straddled the great
creature, reaching around its throat to grasp great hanks of skin and fur.
He pulled these tight in opposite directions and the wolf struggled, feeling
its air supply dying. Elated in victory, Abraham growled, and elation
turned to anger and then fear as the growl turned to a howling bark
and his hands sprouted hair and the fingers crumpled into deadly
claws. His grip on the wolf lessened, and he felt the bones in his body
re-knitting themselves to match those of his opponent.
‘NO! It is too soon!’ he cried, but what came out was a bark. He leapt
from the back of his brother and landed on his hands and knees, still able
to walk upright, but stooping with the weight of his elongating head.
The wolf sprang up and turned on him. They fell as one hard onto the
floor, snapping and writhing against one another. With a great splintering
crash, the combined weight drove them through the floor and into
the cellars below. Abraham heard his brother exhale in one giant rush of
air as they collided with the stone floor beneath, scattering the harem in
a screaming wave. He swung his head and looked and saw the ragged
end of a floorboard protruding from his brother’s chest and one more
through his neck. Hot blood pulsed across them like a half-submerged
stone in a river. The great wolf’s eyes dimmed and the grey fire died in
them. Abraham snapped weakly at the prone wolf, drew his black lips
back and snarled into its face. He raised himself up, crawled away from
the cooling body, and licked slowly at his own wounds, tasting his own
as well as his brother’s blood on his fur. The world dimmed as Abraham’s
body became his master. He twitched his tail and fell into the
greyness.
Abraham woke and stood naked in the chilled cellars of his brother’s
house. His house now, he presumed. He smiled as one of his girls
entered the room. He held out his hand to her.
‘Marten?’ he asked.
The girl flattened herself against him.
‘Buried,’ she whispered, running her nails along the length of his
thigh.
‘The head?’
‘Gone, of course,’ she laughed.
The itch seated itself deep in Abraham’s bones. He shut his eyes and
let it come.
‘It’s mine, then?’ he asked.
The girl at his side howled her reply and stood away from him, raising
her tail, exposing herself to him. She barked at him over her shoulder
and he dropped to all fours to join her. Abraham silently remembered
his fallen brothers, and realised he could no longer feel the itch in his
bones or the buzzing in his head. His back arched, and he looked to the
ceiling and howled. He followed his queen into the largest room and
smelled the musk and heat of his harem.
They fell upon him as one, all lust and claws and teeth. There was
young to make.

