"Where is everyone?" I asked Luke, waving a hand at the empty beach chairs.

I looked up and down the deserted beach. It was beautiful but there was something about the place that I couldn’t explain. A gut feeling that something wasn’t quite right. I’d caught the locals giving us strange glances. Luke laughed it off and said it was my imagination.

"Don’t you think the people are a bit weird?" I insisted.

"Not that again," said Luke, hurling a pebble into the pounding surf. "They seem friendly enough to me."

"I can’t quite put my finger on it," I added. "It’s something about the way they look at us…"

"Don’t forget whose idea it was to come here," he cut in.

"Okay martyr." I pulled a face. "Don’t rub it in."

I’d pestered to come when I spotted the ferry crossing. We’d come to America’s Gulf Coast to play golf and it was tough luring Luke away from the fairway. But I’d won him over. Now I had to admit Plunkett Island wasn’t the idyll I’d hoped for.

"Look at that." Luke pointed towards the water. I squinted and shaded my eyes with a hand against the sun. A shoal of silver fish jumped several feet in the air, their bodies flashed like hundreds of mirrors.

I caught my breath as a shark burst from the water and devoured several fish in mid leap. Sparkling spray cascaded off its torpedo-shaped body before it crashed beneath the swirling surf once again.

Luke gasped. "Phew! That was something. Where’s the camera when you need it."

He fished in his rucksack but his head jerked up when I squeezed his arm.

"Hey, do you mind…Wow!"

Scores of fins appeared as shark after shark surfaced like a fleet of submarines. They frenziedly thrashed the water as they crunched the silver fish with awesome jaws.

"Christ!" said Luke, suddenly grim faced. "There could be people swimming and surfing in the bay. We better warn them."

He started running, his hand like a vice around my wrist as he pulled me along behind him.

Crossing the dunes we almost stumbled over a couple lying kissing and cuddling on a beach towel.

The man swore and leaped up. He glared at Luke. "Are you crazy?…." he started.

"Sorry," Luke interrupted him, "but we have to warn people." He nodded towards the water where the sharks were swimming towards the bay.

In the market place overlooking the bay, a brass band played. People crammed the area, which was surrounded on three sides by pretty white-washed and pink-washed buildings. Several narrow winding streets led from the market place up the hill to the small town of Plunkett. The streets were also heaving with people. When we’d set off for our early morning walk the market place was empty but now it was transformed with bunting, stalls and funfair rides. A yellow banner stretched from one side to the other with the words Plunkett Carnival painted in red letters. The smell of hot dogs, popcorn and pizza drifted on the warm summer breeze.

Over people’s heads I could see the tide was nearly in and the beach was teeming with people.

"Over there," I yelled, catching sight of a blue uniform.

"You’ve got to…clear everyone…out of the bay," Luke breathlessly told the police officer. "They’re in danger."

The officer smiled unconcerned. I waved an arm towards the water. "Sharks…" I wheezed, my heart on the brink of bursting, "Coming this way."

He took out a whistle and blew. Several officers ran towards him. I sighed with relief.

"Take them into custody," he ordered, his face stony.

"What the Hell…" shouted Luke as two burly officers seized him, handcuffing his hands behind his back.

"Let me go," I shrieked as my arms were lashed behind me.

Luke struggled in vain. "We’ve done nothing wrong."

"We came to warn you…" I paused as a fat sweaty man, puffing on a fat sweaty cigar came up. A heavy ornate chain hung around his neck. "Thank God," I cried. "Mr. Mayor, sharks…"

He waved his cigar to silence me. "I know," he said, then turned and whispered to a police officer standing beside him. His white shirt, splashed with perspiration clung to his fleshy back. "Let me explain."

"There’s no time," insisted Luke. " You’ve got to get everyone off the beach. There’s hundreds of sharks heading towards the bay."

"Hundreds and then some," said the Mayor, mopping his forehead with a white handkerchief. "They come every year and we hold this carnival to welcome them."

Luke stared at the Mayor confused. "What the Hell are you talking about?"

"We thank them for leaving our shores safe," explained the Mayor. "Sharks plague our coastline, exhausting the fish stocks and attacking anyone who goes into the water. Our ancestors culled them but no matter how many they killed, they still came."

He smiled warmly at us. Luke frowned angrily. My nerves began to tingle.

"So our ancestors made a pact with them," he went on, the rivers of sweat he’d missed with his handkerchief ran down his bloated face. "Once a year, we allow them to gorge themselves on our fish supplies and in return we honour them in a special ceremony."

Suddenly the hairs prickled on the back of my neck. "How?" I asked nervously.

"Sacrifice."

I looked at Luke. His face had whitened. "Sacrifice. Sacrifice what?" he demanded. "Cows, sheep?"

The Mayor smiled crookedly. His eyes vanished into two plump pillows of flesh. "Tourists."

"What!" I said in a strangled voice.

Luke looked incredulous. "You’re mad."

"Tourists aren’t encouraged to come here," continued the Mayor, ignoring him, "but over a year quite a few do make their way to our little island. So we keep them here until Carnival Day and then…"

"That’s ridiculous," mounting panic made my voice shake. "They have families, jobs for God’s sake. Someone would miss them."

"You’re absolutely right little lady," he said, his wet face smiling. "We tell their families they died in a shark attack." He laughed, his cigar breath making me recoil. "Which is the truth."

There was a huge cheer. Over the crowd of bobbing heads I saw the sharks coming closer.

"I think our guests have arrived." The Mayor signaled to the police officers. "Look. You seem like a really nice couple and your act of public duty is commendable. But unfortunately you’re timing sucks. What can I tell you – you’re in the wrong place at the wrong time."

Several officers grabbed us and dragged us towards the beach.

"Let me go you bastards," I screamed.

"Don’t freak out, Pru," shouted Luke, "This has to be a mistake."

I kicked and struggled and screamed for help to the crowds all around us but they ignored my cries. The grown ups smiled while children licking ice creams and lollypops waved with depraved unconcern.

I could see the man and woman from the beach being dragged away in front of us.

This couldn’t be real. I would wake up any second.

I could feel blood trickling in rivulets down my struggling hands where the steel handcuffs bit into my wrists. Through tears of rage and terror I could see men, women and children tied to dozens of poles staked in the sand near the water’s edge. They were all blindfolded and gagged. Blood ran down their arms and legs where someone had slashed their skin.

"This is insane," I cried in horror and lashed out with my feet. I had the satisfaction of hearing one of my captors cry out in pain. Then everything went black as a cloth was put over my eyes and mouth. Ropes were lashed around my torso tying me to one of the poles I’d seen staked in the sand. Then I felt a sharp pain as something sliced through my arm and leg.

"God this can’t be happening," I shrieked into the cloth covering my mouth.

It seemed like a lifetime that I was tied there, my heart hammering in my chest before I felt water lapping at my feet, then my knees.

I could hear the bloodthirsty crowd screaming and chanting. And as the water reached my shoulders I felt something bump my side. I knew it was a shark. "Dear Mother of God!" I prayed for superhuman powers to escape.

Suddenly the crowd’s excitement exploded. But the surf battering my body drowned their screams out.

I felt the water rush around my legs, then an excruciating pain. I heard a bone snap. "No, no," I screamed, frantically waving my arms to fend off the next attack.

"Pru, it’s OK." Luke took the bedside lamp I was about to hit him with from my grasp and cradled me in his arms.

"The sharks…."I sobbed.

Luke stroked my hair. "There aren’t any. It was a nightmare."

"No. No, stop them."

"Jesus. Those shark pictures we saw in the restaurant last night must really have upset you."

I slumped back on the pillows, drenched. It had seemed so real. I shuddered. A long shower energised me. We got dressed and after breakfast left our hotel on one of the side streets off the market place. Clusters of excited people passed us, hurrying towards the market place.

"I wonder what’s up," said Luke. "Sleepy Plunkett seems to have suddenly come alive."

We followed the stream of bodies. The slight breeze carried the sound of a brass band.

"Great. It sounds like a fair or something," said Luke, pulling my arm.

"Just like in my dream," I whispered, my mouth suddenly dry. A picture of a shark flashed into my head. Its mouth was pulled back in a terrifying grimace, revealing a necklace of jagged teeth. A black lifeless eye stared at me.

"Luke let’s go back to our room."

"Silly. It looks like fun."

Reluctantly I followed him. The soles of my trainers seemed lined with lead. In the market place people were milling around dozens of stalls. A little girl squealed with pleasure as a man gave her a teddy bear.

"See, nothing to worry about," said Luke, kissing my cheek. "Everyone’s having a good time."

I sighed. He was right. Stupid dream. I wasn’t going to let it spoil my day. A woman by the ice cream stall turned and I gasped. It was the woman from the beach I’d seen in my nightmare. Her husband finished paying for the ices and took her arm.

"Pru," Luke was shaking me. "What’s up? You look like you’ve seen a ghost."

Several police officers grabbed the couple. The woman screamed and dropped her ice cream.

"What the Hell’s going on?" said Luke.

Waves of terror gripped me. I stood mesmerised, no fight in me as my arms were pulled behind by rough hands. I heard the click of handcuffs and felt the familiar cold metal against my skin. Luke was yelling but his voice seemed far away.

I was barely aware of being led to the stake or the blindfold and gag being put on. The pounding in my ears muffled the crowd’s delirium. I sensed the sharks closing in. Sick rose in my throat and I retched as it hit the gag.

Numb with shock, I didn’t feel the first bite. As razor-like teeth continued to rip through flesh and bone, like a hot knife through butter, I screamed but the sound was drowned in the rough fabric.

"Help. Oh God help me, please help me."

Somehow my tortured screams had got through the gag. No. Someone had removed it. Thank God. A hand that smelled like soap covered my mouth.

"Pru…Pru…please…stop. Someone will think I’m murdering you."

My bonds had been removed. I struggled frantically.

"For the love of God, Pru."

Two sharks were fighting over me, pulling me limb from limb, like snarling dogs battling over a juicy bone. My eyes flew open and Luke’s face swam in a blur before me. He was shaking me.

"What…where…Oh God!"

"Darling, you’re going to have to lay off the late night snacks. You had me scared to death."

As Luke showered I lay on the bed, turned to ice, unable to move and unwilling to try. He’d opened the window and a breeze made the red and white curtains sway. The pattern moved like blood gushing from severed limbs. I shuddered.

The sun flooding the room promised another glorious day. My teeth wouldn’t stop chattering. I couldn’t bear another night in this place. Once I’d made the decision. I was on the way to feeling better.

When Luke came out of the bathroom, toweling his hair, I was stashing clothes into our two suitcases.

"What’s going on?"

"Baby, if we hurry we can make the nine o’clock boat."

"But we’ve paid for another night."

"I don’t care. This place gives me the creeps." I was wrenching open drawers like a burglar. I tossed an armful of socks and underwear into the smaller of the two cases. "Please hurry, Luke."

He came across and grabbed my hands. "Don’t you think you’re over-reacting?"

"No. No. We have to get out of here."

"After all the fuss you made to come."

I snapped the first case shut and faced him. "Wouldn’t you prefer to play golf?"

I’d said the magic word. "Okay. If that’s what you want. You know I only want to please you."

I reached up and kissed him. "Thanks darling. I love you. But please hurry, we’ve only got 30 minutes."

Luke went downstairs to put the golf bags in the car while I got ready. I was tossing the last few things in the second case when he came back.

"Did the manager see you?" I asked, sitting on the case to shut it.

"She wasn’t there. We’d better hang around until she comes back to get a refund for tonight."

"No," I almost shrieked. "I want to leave."

"But it’s 100 bucks."

"Forget the damn money. I’ll give you it."

"Okay. Okay. Keep your shirt on."

We set off down the lane that led to the dock.

"Are you feeling better?" asked Luke, as we neared the jetty.

"Yes, yes." I lied. I was impatient. I wouldn’t feel better until we were off this island. I kept glancing at my watch. Precious minutes were ticking by.

The boat we’d come across on was at the deserted dockside. The ticket office was closed.

"Doesn’t look very busy," said Luke.

"Where’s the crew?" I was beginning to panic. "Hello. Anybody there?"

A man appeared on the deck of the ferry. "Howdy," he said in a friendly voice. "How can I help you folks?"

Relieved, I ran to the water’s edge. "We’re here for the nine o’clock crossing."

He wiped his oily hands on a rag. "Sorry. She’s not running today."

"Why not?" I demanded. "She runs every day. The sign says every day of the year." My voice was getting higher and higher with worry. I pointed to a poster beside the wooden ticket office.

"Yep. Every day but one. But if you folks come back tomorrow she’ll be running."

"No. We have to leave today."

"’Fraid that ain’t possible."

Luke came over and put his arm around me. "One more day won’t make any difference Pru. Let’s come back tomorrow."

"No," I shouted. "I want to go now."

"As you can see, there ain’t anyone around to take you," said the man, climbing out of the boat. "And in another minute or two you folks would have missed me. I was just doing a touch maintenance before getting myself off to the carnival."

"The what?" I shrieked.

Luke looked at me in surprise. "Pru, calm down."

"We hold it every year, everyone’s welcome. In fact tourists are ‘specially welcome," he smiled.

I glared at the man. "We’re not coming back tomorrow. We’re leaving now."

He laughed. "Well that could be a mite difficult. Being as there’s ain’t no other way off the island. Unless you plan to swim. And that could be pretty dangerous." He nodded to the water. Hundreds of triangular fins dotted the surface.

Luke whistled. "Hey, there must be hundreds…" He turned to the ferryman. He was gone.

About a dozen people were approaching from the town, their heels kicked up puffs of dust. I screwed my eyes up in the bright sun. Even from that distance I could see the sun bouncing off the shiny buttons on their uniforms and glinting off the handcuffs they carried. As they drew closer, I could see the Mayor, one step behind his paunch, leading the way.
