The fall wind darted along the well-worn road, funnelled by the trees from which it whipped a cloak of leaves into a manic dance, ending abruptly against the unyielding rider. Stopping to flick a couple from his face, Galvain glanced at the mark on the tree as he passed. Ashoun had probably left the road at that point.

Dismounting to examine his horse's shoe, he glanced at the procession following a short way behind, carriages, wagons and horsemen making their way up the gradual incline. Catching the eye of one of the horseman, he gave a slight nod, and the man urged his horse forward. Waiting, Galvain made a surreptitious sweep of the road ahead. His jet black, severely trimmed hair showed a few strands of grey as he removed a stray leaf. The charcoal grey of his uniform identified him as a mercenary, and the insignia on his chain shirt, a white hawk's head on a black background, identified his company.

The forest road continued its slow climb for another hundred and fifty paces or so, before dipping again as a rocky outcropping raised the forest to the left a good ten feet, before that also dropped away. The road curved towards the right after that, but he couldn't see far along it from his current position.

He turned back as Beroven rode up.

“Sir?” Beroven made an equally casual inspection of the trail. Bald and meticulously clean-shaven, dressed the same as Galvain, he had to stop himself sitting to attention.

“You saw the mark?” said Galvain.

“Yessir,” Beroven replied in a muted tone.

“They’ll probably be set up on the outcrop. A few archers up there, maybe some up in the trees to either side, and men on foot to run out in front and behind."

The occasional clump of bushes or other vegetation along the tree line offered cover from the road, and the overcast skies cast a blanket of shadows over the forest floor. They stood a short distance from where the nearest of the bandits would be set up, but the lack of visible movement offered little hope, as neither doubted Ashoun's warning.

"We could just walk on," said Beroven. "Doubt they'd be desperate and stupid enough to attack a caravan guarded by a few dozen heavily-armed men."

Galvain stared at him.

"Or if we take our time forming up," said Beroven, little hope in his voice, "they might run away before we get to them." He ended with a sigh.

Galvain wouldn't leave them to prey on other travellers.

“Stop the carriages to look at that problem wheel," said Galvain. "I want you, Grellden and a few of the others staying back, keep an eye out behind, though I doubt Ash’d have missed anything. Have the rest of the men come on up. When we engage, send Grellden off to the right to make sure there's none hiding on that side.”

With a quick nod, Beroven trotted his horse back towards the procession, shouting at the lead coachman about straining the wheel.

Turning back to inspect the trees, Galvain surreptitiously checked his sword, and loosened the ties holding his shield to the saddle.

There'd been rumours of recent bandit activity in Arkandell. The reports usually blamed refugees from Gharual, although he'd found more believable the less common rumours of it being farmers and villagers from the border with Kauvaldt, since tensions between the neighbouring countries had seen a build up of forces in the area. But people preferred the idea of it being outsiders. The only vaguely reliable reports he'd heard came from the East of the country. Certainly not here, within a day's ride of the capital. Still, the reason for their presence didn't really matter.

Satisfied with the straps, he remounted as the others drew near, and led them forward at a calm pace, looking for a spot to leave the road. He located a narrow spot a short way up. There may be wider openings further along, but the ground looked even enough, and it'd be better to get under cover early, acclimatize their eyes to the shade, and build up speed before reaching the main ambush point.

His eyes darted to every movement, cursing the wind.

Unless particularly dim, the bandits knew they'd been spotted, and would likely be considering their odds. If they hadn't already started pulling back then they could well break as soon as they faced charging horsemen. They'd likely set up in the best positions they could find, but few bandit groups could survive in one location for very long, so they probably wouldn't be familiar with the ground.

But the tense silence from behind, broken only by the sounds from the coaches and the faint scuffing of weapons being readied, met an eerie stillness ahead, so if they had started moving, they'd done so quietly.

Nearing the gap, Galvain steered his horse off the road, his fingers itching to reach for his weapon.

A strangled yelp burst from up ahead, followed by the soft thud of a body plunging from a tree. Ash had already started, then.

His sword out before the body landed, Galvain’s shield rose a moment later as he let out the call to charge, plunging into the trees, and hastily adjusting his eyes to the shadow. He saw another body drop a short way up, and spotted movement off to the left. The foot troops who'd have rushed out to block any retreat.

Waving some of his men to deal with them, and hearing Keldun roar as he led that charge, Galvain spurred his mount towards the main clump visible ahead. His shield high, at least one missile glancing off it, Galvain didn't slow. He caught sight of movement up in the trees, as the archers perched there took random, panicked, shots, most missing their marks, hitting either ground or the intervening trees.

The bandits on the ground also shot a few wild arrows at them. Most looked ready to bolt, but a couple shouted orders to keep the others in line.

He barely registered one of the shots coming at him in time to drop his shield, and even then it pierced the edge of the shield, sticking in at an angle. His blood, already pumping fast, surged, and he pushed his horse faster still, gingerly raising his shield a touch to again spy on the bandits. They began discarding their bows in favour of melee weapons, so he raised his shield again, just in time to deflect another shaft from on high. A moment later he heard a cry from a horse behind, followed by the grunt of one of his men tumbling from it. With no time to turn and see the damage, he braced his sword to meet the enemy line.

The two in charge barked orders for the line to hold steady, but a few had already broken and started running. If they could take those two down, the line, maybe around ten strong at the moment, wouldn't last, and they could deal with the more serious threat up in the trees. Galvain focussed on the nearest leader, who had his own sword prepared, but the bandit to his left had a rough pike readied, aimed at him.

Barely slowing, Galvain slapped the flimsy weapon aside with his shield, kicking the man squarely in the face with his steel-toed boots as he passed to the left. Turning to find the leader as he wheeled his horse around, he spotted the man slicing a rider's leg as he danced around a tree trunk, using it as cover.

Charging back at him, Galvain brought his shield down on the head of another bandit in passing, as the leader spied his approach and readied himself near the tree. Slowing, Galvain directed his horse to the right of the tree, and, as he'd expected, the bandit dodged around it as he closed in, before he could commit to a lunge. The man ducked out from the other side, trying to use the obstruction of the shield to cover his move, but Galvain had expected it, raising the shield and thrusting out with his own sword. It threw the man off-balance, and he jerked back from his aborted lunge.

Using the momentary respite, Galvain quickly dismounted, regaining his balance before the man could attack again. Not having expected action, the horses hadn't been armoured, and they may've already lost one, so he didn't want to risk his against a competent opponent.

And the man seemed to know how to fight. His insistence on keeping the rabble he'd been working with in line showed experience too, since that'd been a better option than running from horsemen, even if they'd had little chance. But his face now showed frustration at his situation. He seemed good enough to judge other fighters, and appeared to recognise Galvain's superiority, so he'd started backing away, possibly hoping to wear down his armoured opponent. He should know that'd be hopeless, though, as time would be against him with so many opponents nearby and his own men dropping quickly.

His eyes said he knew capture would likely end in hanging, and didn't seem inclined to let it reach that point. Galvain saw the decision reached as the man's eyes tightened, and he stopped retreating, charging instead, launching a flurry of strikes on Galvain's shield, then spinning to the side of the shield as he tried to slash around it.

Expecting it, Galvain stepped back just enough to avoid the attack, then darted forward with a thrust for the man's chest.

The bandit recovered his sword quick enough to knock the attack wide, his eyes flickering with the understanding of his mistake the instant before Galvain's shield slammed into his face, knocking him back a step, stunned. Galvain's sword found him a moment later, but it took a couple of seconds before he hit the ground.

Quickly scanning the surroundings, Galvain found resistance had dissipated, his men running down the last of them. The trees seemed clear, a few archers littering the ground nearby. The foot troops who'd have blocked the road ahead had been rounded up, without much of a fight, and his men herded them back towards the road. He tried to calm his blood as he realized it was over.

Wiping his blade, he strolled back to his horse, mounting and heading back towards the road, passing the only casualties on their side. An arrow had grazed Helfrin's arm, little more than a scrape, and had caught his horse badly enough that it had to be put down. Wolk had taken a cut to the leg from the bandit, but had it bound for the moment. Another of the horses had taken a bad enough gash that it wouldn't be able to support a rider soon, and it would need to be led at a slow pace for a while, but it should recover.

Reaching the road, he found the convoy unaffected by the skirmish, but plenty of glances coming his way. He approached at a calm pace, letting his blood slow.

His men relaxed at his appearance, clustered around the elaborate coach in the lead, the focus of their current job. Or their current assignment, at least. Behind it stood another, dirtier and more crowded coach, followed by a few merchant carts, all of whom had jumped at the chance to travel with an armed escort given the rumours, which appeared a wise choice. The extra numbers offered more security, even if it might have slowed them a touch, and the merchants had paid by way of sharing food, which assuaged some of his men's grumbles about doing an unpaid job.

Their last job had been escorting a consignment of precious stones from Farrandis. Too expensive to be allowed to travel unescorted, even without rumours of instability, his reputation saw his company often entrusted with such jobs. Since the local wars in Farrandis were experiencing a lull, he'd accepted the job and brought a unit of his men, leaving the others handling smaller jobs back home. He hadn't heard about the growing tensions with Kauvaldt until they'd set off, too late to back out without damaging his reputation. So he'd hoped to deliver the cargo and get out of the country before anyone tried forcing them into service.

Reining his horse in next to the main coach, Galvain met Thyla’s wide-eyed gaze, a combination of anxiety and embarrassed excitement, glancing down the road. Her pale blonde hair showed as little sign of travel as did her dark green dress. "Are there really brigands?" she asked in a tone which tried to hide its understandable quiver.

"There were," he tried to sound reassuring. "They're no longer a threat."

"Was anyone hurt?" She glanced at his clothes, and he became aware that he probably had blood spattering them, growing self-conscious and wishing he'd thought of cleaning it off. "Any of your men, I mean."

"A couple had scratches, as did one of the horses." He saw no need tell her about the horse they'd had to put down, not wanting to further distress her. He glanced back down the road, trying to think what else to say. He rarely engaged in polite conversation these days, and felt tenser now than he had charging the bandits. His pumping blood had quickly overridden his worries then, but here he just foresaw the inevitability of some social blunder escaping his lips.

When Lord Brien had heard of his presence nearby, Galvain had received an invitation to visit his childhood friend, and been asked a favour. To escort his daughter back to the capital. With some of his troops requisitioned to support the army, and the rest assuring the security of his own lands, he'd been loath to allow his daughter to travel without an escort, even if he put little stock in the rumours of banditry. He'd offered to pay, of course, but Galvain owed him too much to accept, and since it didn't take them too far off their route home, most of his men shouldn't grumble too much about the lack of pay. Of course, with what they'd just faced, he'd probably have to give them something from his own funds.

"It should be clear to continue soon," he said as Grellden emerged from the trees. "Safer if you stay away from the windows until we've gone down the road a bit, though."

With a nervous nod, she sat back after a final glance up the road, and he nudged his horse forward. He doubted they'd missed anyone, or that anyone they did miss would be stupid enough as to draw attention to themselves, but he'd rather not risk anyone shooting at her as they passed, so he ordered a couple of his men to ride alongside the carriage.

He rode forward to meet Grellden, Beroven joining him, but there was little to report on that side of the road, with no signs of bandits still in hiding or having fled. Nodding, he ordered them to start the caravan moving, sending a couple to help the wounded, and then nudged his horse back into the woods.

Now his battle fervour had passed, his mind started to register the differences between some of the bandits, which had been irrelevant in the heat of battle, and wanted to check them out. The couple who'd seemed in charge had been less ragged and underfed than the rest, and the sword he'd been attacked with seemed remarkably sturdy now he thought about it.

He passed a few bodies, and a couple of live ones being herded back towards the caravan. The prisoners appeared much as he'd expect, their clothes heavily worn and cheap, their faces lean and scared, desperation plain in their eyes. Their weapons didn't look much better, and a couple had broken in the skirmish, if it could be called that.

Approaching the body he wanted, he found Halbryn and Creault rummaging through dead men's pockets.

With a broadly healthy appetite, Halbryn's chain shirt looked a bit stretched as he crouched, unearthing little more than a portion of uneaten meat of indeterminate species, which even he found unappetizing.

A tinkling of coins drew their attention to where Creault perched next to Galvain's target, flicking back greasy hair as it slipped over his narrow, angular, face. Lean, with a tendency to sharp jerky movements, he shot Halbryn a toothy, albeit lopsided, grin as he shook the purse.

Halbryn glowered, his expression changing little. “How the cruk d'you always find the good stuff?”

“It's jus' copper, anyhow,” said Creault, tucking it away and resuming his search.

“Typical. We get attacked by the cheapest bandits.” With a quick check of the rest of his target’s meagre remains, Halbryn glanced at the other bodies.

“If they had money,” Galvain said as he rode up, “they probably wouldn’t be bandits.”

Halbryn glowered at him, accompanied by a grunt as he heaved himself to his feet, running a hand over his head and back towards his receding hair. He adjusted his armour into a more comfortable position, little altering the dishevelled look he achieved within minutes of donning clean clothes.

"Helfrin and Wolk have wounds need tending," said Galvain. "Go see to them, and the injured horse, then get mounted up and moving."

Halbryn muttered as he straightened himself. “What kind of a world is it where ya can't even loot bandit crelluks in peace? Just trynna get some profit from my work.” He glared at Galvain, who ignored it.

"Wouldn't say it's a complete loss," said Creault, holding up a ring he'd just gotten from the bandit leader.

"Jus' typical," huffed Halbryn.

Galvain held his hand out to Creault, who relinquished the ring with a reluctant "cap'n". It appeared expensive, probably actual gold. He didn't recognize the black star symbol on it, though. He tossed it back to Creault, who caught it with a grin. Dismounting, Galvain turned his attention to the body.

Halbryn continued to grumble until a voice from behind made him jump.

“Your horses are over there," Ashoun said in a calm voice.

“It’s impolite to sneak up on people, boy,” barked Halbryn.

Galvain hadn't heard Ash ride up either, but managed to avoid jumping. The boy led Keldun's larger mount, a slight grin creasing his tanned face as he passed, neither Raven, his horse, or Keldun's seemed to make a sound as he guided them. He met Galvain's gaze, but didn't slow. Of slight build compared to the other mercenaries, he had an athletic leanness, and his short dark hair wafted easily around his youthful face.

While Galvain wanted to reproach him for going off on his own, he'd rather do so away from the others, so held his tongue as Ash moved on. He slowed near a tree where a falling archer had been snagged on some branches. Standing in his saddle, Ash reached up to retrieve the remaining arrows from the man’s quiver, continuing on as he sorted through them, discarding all but three of the shafts, which he placed in the quiver hanging from his saddle.

Continuing to grumble, Halbryn moved back towards their horses, Creault in tow, and casually kicked one of the unpilfered bodies in passing, only to jump back with a start as it roused.

Their swords drawn and pointed at it, Halbryn nodded at Creault to check the man. Gingerly using his foot, Creault rolled him over, and they saw his only wounds appeared to be a nasty gash on his arm, and a graze to the head. The man stirred as Halbryn crouched to examine his wounds, and check for weapons, Creault keeping his sword threateningly close.

“Come on,” Halbryn shook the man’s face until his eyes opened. “You’ll live. At least until yer handed over to the law. On yer feet.” He dragged the man up, eliciting a grunt of pain. “It’s only a flesh wound. Well, maybe a small chunk of bone, too, but it's not gonna kill you. Let’s get you tied with your surviving friends and we’ll see about stitching it.” He let Creault prod the man towards the caravan as he grabbed their horses' reins.

Returning his attention to the bandit leader, Galvain could tell that the clothes, while as dirty as those of the others, were of stronger fabrics, and nowhere near as worn. The man himself looked well-fed, of a sturdy build, and he'd moved like soldier. His blade, while not ostentatious, seemed solid. A good strong sword which appeared to have seen use.

His curiosity as satisfied as it would get, he remounted. He'd be unlikely to get answers here, and didn't have much interest in pursuing the incongruity anyway. Possibly a couple of deserters, who hadn't fancied getting caught up in an actual war, had convinced some desperate farmers to turn to banditry. A source of quick money to see them out of the country.

He certainly wasn't curious enough to hang about in this country longer than he had to.

Heading back to the road, he caught sight of Ash off to the left, his path intersecting with that of Keldun, as the large man trudged back from wherever he'd chased down his prey.

A head taller than most anyone else in their troop, with a mane of dark red hair flopping to his wide shoulders, he had a powerful physique, particularly imposing when the battle rage came upon him. Which seemed more often, of late.

His bloodied state didn't surprise Galvain, as Keldun often left his horse when the rage took him, even trained warhorses getting skittish when he went there. Ash had suggested getting him a plough horse, whose slower pace may allow him to control his temper before reaching the battle, but they'd decided the animal would end up slaughtered in impatience.

When enraged, the rest of the company knew to stay clear of him. While he'd never attacked them directly, he didn't necessarily pay attention to where his weapon went after leaving its target. He rarely took prisoners in that state.

He'd also become more withdrawn of late, barely speaking to anyone but Ash, and seeming more haunted. Galvain knew he felt himself losing control. He'd seen it happen to others, but at least Keldun seemed concerned by it, to be fighting it, so maybe there'd be hope. But Galvain couldn't see what help he could offer, and had to weigh his concern against that for the safety of the rest of the company should the rage finally take control.

Reaching the road, Galvain glanced at the dozen bound bandits, trailing the last wagon, and one of them on the back of the wagon with a vivid wound to his side. The merchant didn't appear happy with his unwanted passenger, but kept it relatively quiet.

Moving ahead of the caravan, he took up the forward position again, and it wasn't long before Ashoun rode up.

“Any injuries?” said Ash.

Galvain told him. “Helfrin and Wolk are taking it slow. I left Grellden to ride with them and the wounded horse. Couple of other are riding wagons to spare the horses”

“You want me out ahead, again?”

Giving him a tired glance, Galvain sighed. “May as well. I doubt there’ll be more bandits this close to the edge of the forest, though. They’d drive nearby competition out first. And if you spot anything, circle back to warn us.”

“I left a warning," said Ash, a touch defensively. "Which you obviously saw.”

“Then you took an unnecessary risk.” A habit the boy seemed to have fallen into recently, and one which worried Galvain. Looking at that calm face though, he had to remind himself Ash was no longer a boy, and he probably didn't need to be so concerned with his welfare. But he wasn't that old, and his youthful looks made it hard to remember.

“There was little risk. Their poor attempts at concealment displayed a lack of experience at their chosen profession.”

“That’s hardly reducing the risk. Amateurs are more likely to panic. Besides, a couple were competent enough.”

“Apart from their spotter, they were set up too far away for their archers to get a good shot through the trees, and there were no signs they had horses, so I could have easily outrun them. What would you have done differently had I doubled back?”

Galvain glared for a moment. “I’d have sent Grellden with you, so we could've cut down the number of archers before we went charging in.”

Ash opened his mouth, but thought better of it. “Next time I shall turn back.”

After a moment, Galvain returned the nod, turning to review his men’s formation as Ash rode ahead.


The forest soon behind them, the procession reached the outskirts of Hadarfyn as the sun prepared to begin its descent in earnest. The original settlement had been built on a hill, but the place had sprawled out since. The inner city, the oldest part, still rose above the rest, with the palace looking down on everything. One wall encircled the inner city, and a newer one, less than forty years old, surrounded the rest of the city, although buildings had sprouted beyond it in the intervening years.

The streets of the outer city had yet to clog with the homeward flood, but Galvain still felt the weight of memories pushing in on him as they made their way along familiar streets, looking as they had over a decade and a half ago. Maybe a bit more worn, greyer and crumbling. But they remained familiar, increasing his tension, and his desire to leave.

They handed the bandits over to the guards at the front gate, and the wagons and other carriage took their own paths as they made their way through the city.

The relative quiet of the streets allowed the procession a clear path to the gate into the inner city. The home of the influential, mainly the nobility, he grew increasingly uncomfortable as it grew nearer, but he probably didn't need to go much further.

The guards lounging at the gate, in the dull blue uniforms of the city guard, sent curious glances their way, the presence of armed mercenaries an obvious concern given the current tensions, but their number wasn't enough to be worrying. And probably less an irritant than the zealous priest the guard's had given up trying to move along. Not venturing near enough to accost the gate’s foot traffic, he shouted his tirade from a short distance away.

The officer rose with a sigh, having no need to concern himself with the pedestrians freely passing through the gate, but obliged to at least question this lot. His tone showed little enthusiasm as he asked by rote, “who do you serve?”

“Myself,” said Galvain, equally disinterested.

The guard’s face darkened. “What's your business here?”

“Just escorting the coach. Don’t worry, we won’t be going any further.” Without waiting for further questions, he nudged his horse back towards the coach, the officer scowling after him before returning to stand near his seat.

Reining his horse in, Galvain met Thyla’s smile as she moved to his side of the coach. She'd calmed from the earlier excitement, regaining her usual placid and approachable manner.

“Lady Brien, you’re safely delivered to the city,” he said in a formal tone.

“Thank you, Captain, and please, it’s Thyla. You’re not accompanying us further?”

“Given the increasing tensions with Kauvaldt, I don’t want to hang around longer than I have to and risk getting drafted.”

“Where will you go next?”

“First to a road house a short way back, to wait for the others to catch up. Then back to Farrandis. They should have another small conflict, or armed feud, under way by the time we get back, and it’s a good place for a mercenary to sit out the freeze.”

“I appreciate you delaying your journey to escort me.” She offered another genuine smile, before raised voices drew their attention.

“Blasphemer!” the wild-eyed priest screamed, his finger lancing in accusation. “You take Ahramut in vain at your peril!”

Halbryn, the target of his rage, paid little heed, instead gesticulating wildly at the pedestrians from his position next to the priest. “Getcher shiny new religions, three fer a shekel. And really, can you put a price on the secure future of your soul.”

The priest turned to the guards. “I demand you arrest this man.”

“For what?” the officer asked with a grin, enjoying the show.

“He’s… ” the man’s protestations strangled as he turned to glare at the heretic.

“If yer ready to accept Ah'mallmud inta yer lives, then raise yer right leg and wave yer left arm in a circle.” Halbryn's demonstration lasted seconds, before he had to regain his balance.

“It’s Ahramut!” said the priest. “And he sees and hears your blasphemies and will not forget! Ahramut’s curse is upon you, and you will… ” The priest’s tirade was cut short as he jumped back from Halbryn’s flailing attempts to manically brush off his clothes.

“Get it off me. Where is it?” Stopping his flailing, Halbryn hurriedly looked up his sleeves for the offending curse, to no avail. He started to check down his trousers, grabbing the front of his belt as a shout interrupted him.

“Mount up, we’re leaving.” Galvain shot him a glare, before turning awkwardly back to Thyla. “My apologies.”

“Unnecessary.” She didn't bother suppressing her smile. “My thanks again.”

He nodded as he moved his horse towards the edge of town, another glare Halbryn’s way in passing.

The coach continued through the gates behind them, but Galvain focussed on getting out of the city, and the country, as soon as he could, and not simply to avoid being pressed into service.
