From the bottom of the hill on which the Devon School sat, at Devon Union High School, a public school, taking Latin was a dream that I alone dreamed. You see, the town of Devon consisted of two high schools: the Devon School, the internationally known private boarding school and pathway to elite colleges and careers, and Devon Union High School, the public school in a town going nowhere. I imagined myself in a second floor classroom in Adams Hall, a classroom at the very private Devon School, sitting in a wooden chair-desk that fit my long, tall body. In the dream, my extended fingers held a black disposable pen, and took class notes in a blue covered spiral notebook (eighty sheets, college ruled). The cuff of my gray wool sweater touched the edge of the 1129notebook, and I noted the comfortable khaki skirt on which my free left hand rested. Because something interesting was being said in this imaginary class, I leaned forward. It was a calm dream, and because it was a dream I was very good at Latin. Sometimes I imagined being in a Literature class, and I did well academically in that dream, too.

I push my glasses up my nose, run my hand through my long dirty blond hair, and finally rub my chin as if thinking of something important. Everyone else at Devon Union High School had simple dreams, and none of them involved academic rigor for academic rigor’s sake. From the tall windows of my woodworking class I could see the road leading up the hill to the private school. In my mind, I walked up to the campus and into the library. Back on earth, I stood in line waiting to use the wood lathe.

“Lenore Jackson,” the teacher, Mr. Ellis, barked.

I was standing, doing nothing but looking up the road, and holding two long blocks of wood that had been glued together, waiting to be made into decorative half-spindles. My thin head was tilted a bit to the side, long blond hair hanging lightly on my right shoulder. With his snarl, my head straightened up. All that remained of that dream was the gray sweater and khaki skirt, my chosen uniform that I wore most days. Only the colors of the sweater and the t-shirts that peeked out around the collar were different.

“It’s your turn at the lathe,” he said.

I took my block of wood, set it tightly in the lathe with my long fingers, nails bitten, and proceeded to butcher it at a great speed. My height required that I lean down—I was taller than most of the boys in the class—and while I shaped this block my glasses slid down again. Although it was required, I never wore the safety glasses as they fit awkwardly over my regular wire framed ones, figuring the skewed vision that resulted from looking through two pairs of glasses was more dangerous than a shaving flying into my eye. Focused on the task at hand, I could not push my glasses back up my nose. The shavings fell to the ground, landing on my big canvas sneakers.

Woodshop was not a class I enjoyed, but it was required by this mill town school board even for those who would never work in the mill, even after all of the mills closed. My time at the lathe was longer than I had wanted—I wanted to not be there at all—but required to pass. When I was done the block was round, with decorative nicks and burn marks that came with haste. The smell of burning wood hung in the air; I had pushed down on the chisel a little too hard. Putting the chisel away, I touched the tip of the blade and burned my finger. Mr. Ellis glared at me, seeing me pull my hand back sharply.

“Jackson,” my shop teacher, Mr. Ellis, said to me as I took the newly minted dowel out of the lathe. He was missing the index finger on his left hand. It was a cliché, the woodshop teacher missing a digit, but Devon Union High School traveled in clichés. He was sixty, or eighty, and never wore the safety glasses or ear plugs required upon entering the workshop. Every day he wore a blue work shirt and matching blue pants, with a darker blue shop coat over it all. In his deep coat pockets were carpenter pencils, unused ear plugs, drill bits, a few stray nails scooped up from workbenches, and a used tissue. The woodshop was often cold, and soon—it was the fifty-seventh day of school and fall was turning to winter—the collar of his thermal shirt would be visible above his top button where a cotton t-shirt now laid. With a stoop in his back from bending over lathes his entire career and smokers gravel in his voice he asked, “Are you going to do more on the lathe?”

“Why?” I replied. Another student was already sliding into place behind me. Everyone needed the lathe, but we had only one. Even had I wanted to do more, I would have had to wait for another turn; whoever it was tightening his piece into place would not give up her turn unless Mr. Ellis specifically demanded it. “I took a block of wood and made it round,” I said. I held up my recently minted and slightly chipped dowel. “I’m a woodworking god.”

“Apparently, even god makes mistakes,” he said.

Several people around Mr. Ellis’ desk laughed. Because there were only four machines, the other sixteen students did a lot of waiting their turn. Later, there would be sanding and staining to do, but as the first quarter had just ended—it was day fifty-seven, with one hundred and twenty three left to go—we all needed the table saw, band saw, drill press and lathe. Four of us worked, and sixteen waited. In this large room with long windows, there were plenty of places for us to go. Mr. Ellis was entertaining in his stories, and so his desk always occupied three or four students, most often boys. He knew everyone’s father, either from the mills, the dump, or having taught them years ago. Most of his stories involved someone they all knew, usually doing something stupid a long time ago. For some, he was a surrogate father, a role he accepted because he knew the kid’s father and that the inconvenience of this role was nothing compared to the pain those kids felt. He knew my father. The remaining twelve students scattered to corners to tell their own stories to each other, girls over by the pegs that held aprons or a mixed group in the corner where the dust broom leaned.

Mr. Ellis had worked in the local mill for the first half of his career. His factory had made wooden letter tiles out of maple for a popular spelling game. In his thirties, he had been inspired to teach. Perhaps all of those letter tiles inspired him to be a man of letters. More likely, fifteen years of watching those small tiles jiggle down the assembly line told him he would not be sane at the end of fifteen more. The requirements for a trade teacher were quite low, as technical knowledge in the field was what was important. No degree required. At the local community college extension, he took a night course that combined education law, grading and dealing with parents. With a provisional license in hand, he got a job at Devon Union High School. Two years later, the mill he had worked in closed as the game company sent their orders elsewhere. There was an attempt by the mill owners to make maple baseball bats, but the machines were soon sold and shipped away. Mr. Ellis was a survivor.

“I like the simplicity,” I said when the chuckled died out. I put the dowel behind my back, more to hide my hands than my shoddy workmanship.

“You’re simple,” a student said. Repetition is what passed for wit at Devon Union High School. I smiled out of a girl’s survivor instinct, and said nothing.

Ironically, in Mr. Ellis’ class simplicity was a good thing (although that witticism was not meant as a compliment). Mr. Ellis stressed simplicity. In discussing architecture, design, construction, relationships, lunch… he always stressed simplicity. Quality over quantity, he’d say. Keep it simple, stupid, he’d yell. Our first project of the year was always a box, which allowed him to see our dexterity with tools and ability to plan. If you can’t make a box, how can you make anything else? He would ask this rhetorically to no one in particular as he walked around us busy worker bees. Extolling the simple perfection of a box—structurally, usefully, metaphysically—we spent four weeks learning to believe that our finished empty box held everything we would need to know about life. My box is ten inches by ten inches by ten inches. Made of pine, the sides and bottom are held together with wood glue and 6d finishing nails, the heads set and covered with wood putty, it had a simple lid that slides into position. Inside is THAT copy of The Razor’s Edge, the rubber band that had once held together another edition of The Razor’s Edge, a few strands of a friend’s hair, and a few photos from junior year. I tried to keep its contents simple. The sanded, faintly stained satin polyurethane box now sits in my room, but I cannot get it without attracting the police. I wish it were empty.

“Simplicity is an important aesthetic,” Mr. Ellis grunted, ignoring the comment. “But I’m supposed to make sure you know how to use the lathe.” Behind me the lathe started, the slightly off center block made a low warble, and as the student put the chisel to his block of wood I could no longer hear anything Mr. Ellis said.

Devon is a town of about three thousand.

At one point it had over ten thousand people happily working in the mills, homemaking for people working in the mills, selling groceries and other sundries to people who worked in the mill, or going to one of Devon’s five public schools and waiting until they were old enough to work in the mill. When the mills closed, so did three of the schools and a number of stores. Housing for ten thousand still stand, but many have ragged lawns and broken windows. The local paper is filled with foreclosure and auction notices. Every month there is an electrical fire and an apartment house burns down. These are the wooden structures built during the war and the economic boom that followed. They are the last hired, first fired of the town’s real estate. Devon Union High School is in the middle of this section of town. On the other side of Devon are the brick houses originally built to house the managers of the first red brick mills that line the river that snakes through the town. There are plans for renewal, but many involve either luring in companies that send jobs elsewhere, or tearing down blocks of houses to ease the reminders of the past. Surrounded by mountains we never climb, a pair of railroad tracks runs through the middle of town alongside the Devon river.

Our family lives in a small clapboard house in a neighborhood that predates the war. Every house in the neighborhood is occupied, and most are well maintained. Like every house, ours is painted white with black shutters. It is a two bedroom, one bathroom upstairs with a living room, dining room and small kitchen below. If my parents had decided on a second child I would have had to share a room, as we had no study. My mother used to talk about having a son, but those conversations stopped with my father’s accident. As it is, I am able to rest at night knowing my copy of The Razor’s Edge is safe from a curious younger brother that does not know the meaning of privacy. Every room has a light switch that does not turn on a light, but an outlet found in an odd corner. The light plugged into it never illuminates the room in the right places, and leaves shadows that make doing anything but watching television difficult. In the basement we have a washer and dryer, like everyone else on our block. Faced with hard times, the Jackson family has weathered it well.

My father was hurt a year before his mill closed. They made shoes, and my father never tired of joking that he gave his soul to the place. Our entire family is tall, which facilitates telling bad jokes. Short people have the reputation for being funny, but tall, angular workingmen with thinning hair and glasses are the bread and butter of shop floor humor. The nature of physical humor requires elongated caricature. In hindsight, he should have known layoffs were coming as maintenance of the machinery had moved from dodgy to perilous. Each month preceding his accident a new story about someone nearly losing a finger, toe or their life made its way around the break room. His accident was February’s story. When his arm was ripped off he received a nice settlement and a monthly stipend. The company had tried to get him to accept early retirement, to be paid out over his lifetime, but he wisely insisted on a lump sum. Lying in the hospital bed, he had told the company lawyer that having his empty sleeve pinned to his suit jacket would be enough to swing any jury towards whatever he asked for; no words would be necessary. The lawyer must have agreed, my father had asked for a humble amount, and a check was waiting when the hospital finally released him. A year later the company’s liability costs outstripped the cost of moving elsewhere, and they did move. Now people are losing digits elsewhere while people in Devon wonder what to do next.

Mother continues to clean, bake and fold laundry. She’s a rock, although most of her life was a front for something deeper. Only when things fell apart did I find that out.

Like my father and mother, I am tall. On my first week in high school the basketball coach tried to get me to go out for the freshman girls’ team. I am not athletic, but I could put my hand up and possibly block a few shots. The coach’s invitation was a de facto spot on the team, but I declined to try out. People like me, and I often like them, but I’m not much of a joiner. One of the things that scared me about the summer burnings was how naturally everyone became a mob. Even if I was its leader, I have never wanted to be part of a group. You give up too much. This probably all goes back to my height, as I never fit in physically as long as I remember. In kindergarten I was too big for the desk, and was crammed ridiculously into the back row of our class photo. By senior year I could stand on my toes and touch my forehead on the head jamb. It is because of my height, and penchant for hitting my head, that I broke my nose senior year while running from the police.

Also like my father and mother, I wear glasses. It makes me look smart, and before becoming a real student teachers gave me the benefit of the doubt. Other kids at school needed glasses, as our town is full of the nearsighted gene, but most kids do not notice their slow slip into blurriness because they never read. After eighth grade the nurse stopped her yearly tests (money saving policy), with only a few baseball players seeing her as their strike count rose. Even if identified, most people did not have the money or insurance to buy glasses. If you bought kids glasses, my father joked, the next thing they’d ask for were books.

So, being tall and bespectacled, I would drag on a t-shirt and khaki skirt, pull one of three wood sweaters I owned over the top, and slip my feet into sneakers from the factory second store in town. Devon no longer manufactured shoes, but they did sell the rejects made elsewhere. My father’s missing arm is not a genetic trait, but his clumsiness around machinery is. He was missing two and a half fingers before the arm went. For this reason, I avoided the lathe. Mr. Ellis, the woodshop teacher, knows this, and accepted my limited efforts with a passing grade.

Lathe, band saw, table saw and drill press. These were our tools.

In grammar school we also had a woodworking class. It was required of every student, and we took it in sixth, seventh and eighth grades. Being younger, we learned how to use hand tools. Hammer, rip saw, cross cut saw, jig saw, chisel, nail set, wood plane, brace and bit. While kids went home and used family power tools equal or better than those in the mills, we learned in school how to use these simple tools to make simple things. Devon was the home of tens of thousands of wren because every family had multiple, identical wren birdhouses mounted around their yards; their sixth grade project. Every parent had an identical wooden tool box (seventh grade) and sewing box (eighth grade) given for Father and Mothers’ Day. All of this served Devon on many levels. Everyone knew their roots were in working with their hands: cultural identity. Everyone knew how to use tools: practical skills. Everyone learned how to plan before acting: more abstract but important life skill. Everyone appreciated simplicity: simple appreciation. This last point took years to take hold, though.

The tools we had at the high school were old and basic: Lathe, band saw, table saw and drill press. “This is all junk,” the student on the lathe, Dan, said as he finished his piece. They seemed junk compared to the modern machines many families had at home, or even those that had been at the mill before being shipped elsewhere or simply scrapped. They had no safety stops, or laser guides. For each machine the on button was big and green, while a big red button stopped it. They continued to run, Mr. Ellis would say, as they did the day his woodworking teacher dragged them in two generations ago. Parts had once come in lunch boxes, Mr. Ellis would sometimes say, stolen from factory part closets by the parents and grandparents of current students (it was implied that it was an open secret even the managers knew). Now they came from a national network of aged woodshop teachers that trafficked in antiquated machinery.

“It’s a poor craftsman that blames his tools,” Mr. Ellis replied, dragging another cliché into class. He had an edge of anger in his voice, combined with his smoker’s bark, and it cut through the dying whirl of the lathe motor. The boy put the chisel in the tray with the others, never looking at Mr. Ellis. He did not turn around. For his part, Mr. Ellis never looked away. Arms crossed, he seemed to have moved from sitting at his desk to standing five feet behind the boy without taking a step. In the corner by the pegs, the girls stopped talking. The group by the broom and dustpan looked over in the direction of the lathe. Out of instinct, the students working the table saw, band saw and drill press stopped their machines. As the lathe motor finally died, it was the last sound in the room. The boy, too, had nicks on his dowel. I could see them from twenty feet away, the block of wood no longer turning, as I leaned against Mr. Ellis’ desk.

Dan was average height and normal build. There was nothing spectacular about his physical build or intelligence. His haircut was the one on the sign in the barbershop, next to the list of prices: short in the back, around the ears. Civilizations were built on the backs of Dans. Wars were fought by tens of thousands of Dans. Dan’s father and mother had worked in the mills. A specimen of Devon, he was our past and our future. As the other nineteen students watched, nearly all were like him. Some were Danielles that would marry the Dans and have more Dans and Danielles. Each had a sad side, and a heroic one. This Dan would later get second degree burns over large parts of his body in an emotional, foolish and heroic act two summer hence. He would look different, but inside he would still be Dan, scarred from that one moment when he was something more. Today, he was just Dan.

“What did you do wrong?” Mr. Ellis asked with hardly any attempt at calm.

“The lathe…” was all Dan got out.

“What did you do wrong?” Mr. Ellis asked again. For the first time Dan realized that no one was working; they were all looking at him. This, more than Mr. Ellis’ tone, made him pause. The anger at his block of wood, and the hack job he had done to it, drained from his face. He thought, perhaps for the first time since he placed the block of wood into the lathe. On his face, I could see his perspective changing from the lathe to his being at fault.

“I worked too fast,” Dan finally said.

“What could you do differently?” Mr. Ellis barked.

“I could work slower.”

“How could you do that?” This was a standard question from Mr. Ellis. Subscribing to the theory that most sorrow and responsibility is more parroting than truly understanding, he always asked for a concrete solution that, if you could do it again, you would specifically do. How could you do that? Then, he would wait.

“Before I even used the lathe,” Dan began, “I would have thought a bit more about the steps I was going to take.” Mr. Ellis said nothing. Encouraged, Dan continued. “Perhaps….”

“Perhaps?”

Dan thought. “I would stop when it was a dowel. Then, after planning it out and waiting a bit, I think I would go back and make it more intricate.”

“It’s a poor craftsman that blames his tools.”

To be fair to Dan, Mr. Ellis also advised, use the right tools for the right job. His advice often came in a yell. A student would be using a screw driver as a chisel, or a rip saw to cut across the grain, and the advice would come forth. It’s a poor craftsman that blames his tools—Use the right tools for the right job. I understand why someone would get confused, as they seem contradictory. Closing my eyes now, I can picture my final project—a bookcase—and all of its flaws at the far end of my bedroom. The nicks, burns and stupid simplicity that were a result of my impatience and fear, stand as a reminder of my sophomore year. I wish I could put that in my box, along with THAT copy and the hairs. Instead, the box sits on the top shelf.

It was the fifty-seventh day of school, and first quarter report cards had just been mailed home. I got a “pass” in his course. Mr. Ellis knew that lathes and band saws were not in my future. “Measure three times, cut twice,” he would say about me. Incompetent. He was pleased I finished the course with all of my digits. Mr. Jones, our English 200 teacher, passed the well meaning incompetents who had tried; Mr. Johnson was the same. It should have been our school motto: you tried. Anyone who tried for twelve years usually did well enough to become a productive citizen. In Devon, that was enough. Then the bell rang. My first class of the day was done. I put the newly carved dowel into my locker and headed to my next class.

Tom Triumph grew up in northeastern Massachusetts. A graduate of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and SUNY Cortland he lived in New York City for four years before leaving for Vermont.

He wrote the dark comedy one-act play "The Best Roommate in the World" which was produced at Clark University in Worcester, MA. It was chosen to be revived the following fall for incoming freshmen. He has since written a play and various prose works.

While in the big city, he worked for several publishers, including William Morrow, George Braziller, and for the notorious Barney Rossett. Before leaving New York, he began writing and editing articles for a retail-consulting firm.

As a freelance writer, he has published in several retailing journals, including Women’s Wear Daily, Home Furnishing News, and Footwear News. In addition, his book reviews and commentaries have appeared in the Southern Vermont Review. Other articles have appeared in Rugby Magazine, the Mountain Villager, Vamlegram, Edutopia, and one of his cartoons has graced the pages of Seven Days, the local Vermont arts magazine. Many of his writing is available on his blog Tom Darling Writes! linked below.
