Jeremy’s classmates were going to play footie in the park after school again. More than anything, he wanted to join them.

"What about asking the new kid," he heard Mary Robson say, nodding in Jeremy’s direction.

"Nah, he’s too stuck-up," someone said and they all ran off leaving Jeremy alone.

But he wasn’t alone for long. A dog followed him from the school gates to the park where he secretly watched the game from behind the trunk of a big oak.

The same dog had followed him the last three days. It greeted Jeremy like an old friend, wagging its tail and barking.

"They think I’m stuck up but I’m not, I’m shy," Jeremy told his only friend.

He was in no hurry to go home. His parents were both lawyers and usually worked late. Their housekeeper Mrs Peacock made his tea and always complained he got under her feet. So she wasn’t bothered if he didn’t rush home.

The dog had no collar or name tag, so Jeremy called him Rufus after a dog in a book he’d read. Rufus was big with a white coat and black ears. He looked like no breed Jeremy knew and he had the strangest eyes as if he understood every word Jeremy said.

One of the boys picked up the loose ball ran the length of the makeshift pitch and shot at goal. The shot went yards wide of the jumper goalposts.

"I wish I was playing," Jeremy said.

Rufus cocked his head on one side.

"It’s all right for you. Everybody loves dogs. I wish I was one."

Rufus yelped and jumped up, planting his front paws on Jeremy’s chest. Then the strangest thing happened. Everything went black. It was like someone had put out all the lights.

Seconds later when everything returned to normal Jeremy couldn’t believe his eyes. There was another Jeremy standing in front of him. He was huge. Jeremy only came up to his stomach.

"Who are you?" stammered Jeremy.

"Woof!" came the reply

Jeremy took a shocked step back. Then he got another surprise. Instead of wearing white trainers, he had white, shaggy paws.

Somehow he had swapped places with Rufus.

"Wow" cried Jeremy. It must have happened when Rufus jumped up. But how?

Rufus barked and lay on his back with his arms and legs in the air. He barked for Jeremy to tickle him on the stomach. He might look like a boy but he was still acting like a dog.

Automatically Jeremy scratched him with his newfound claws. It felt strange and he was careful not to hurt him.

"Is that good?" he asked.

"Woof!" said Rufus, a look of ecstasy on his face.

Jeremy laughed, then shot a look around to see if anyone was watching. What would they think if they saw a dog tickling a boy’s stomach?

There was no one apart from the boys and girls playing football and they were hidden by the tree.

Before Jeremy knew what he was doing, he was running towards the game, his long white hair flying in the breeze.

He leaped between Simon Hill and Jimmy Green, catching the ball in midair on his black, shiny nose.

"Hey, what’s going on?" the two boys shouted.

Jeremy took no notice. He ran with the ball towards the goal, dribbling with his head. Several players tried to cut him off but he shot around them.

The goal loomed. The goalie, Steve Watson, came off the line to tackle him. Jeremy tipped his wet nose down, then flipped it up quickly and the ball rocketed over Steve’s head, over the line.

"Yeeees!" cried Jeremy, forgetting that he was a dog and that dogs can’t talk.

Fortunately no one heard him above the noise of his classmates’ shouts, cheers and claps.

"We could do with him on the team," shouted Mary Robson.

Jeremy was so pleased he couldn’t stop his tail wagging.

After scoring a few more goals, Jeremy trotted back to Rufus.

"Did you see that Rufus?" he asked the other Jeremy.

"Woof!"

Just then a ginger cat emerged from a rhododendron bush, arched its back and hissed at Jeremy. Rufus pulled back the corner of his mouth in a snarl, then barked and the cat ran off. Like a bullet being fired from a gun, Rufus raced after it.

"Heel Rufus. Heel," shouted Jeremy but Rufus ignored him.

Rufus chased the cat out of the park and across the road.

Jeremy dashed after Rufus and the cat, crashing through several gardens before the ginger fled up a Silver Birch. From a high branch it hissed down at Rufus.

As Jeremy came panting on the scene, Rufus was leaping at the tree, barking, and clawing the bark with his hands.

"Down Rufus. Down," ordered Jeremy.

Rufus was a mess. It had rained earlier and he had got Jeremy’s new uniform filthy tearing through gardens and hedges after the cat. Jeremy noticed his shirt was ripped and groaned. His mother would kill him.

Rufus stopped leaping at the tree and doubled over panting.

"Oh, you poor boy," said a white-haired old lady who came round the corner. "Are you ill?"

Jeremy opened his mouth to say something, then quickly shut it. The old woman would probably have a heart attack if she heard a talking dog.

To his horror, Rufus crouched on his hands and knees and drank thirstily from a puddle of water.

"You disgusting boy," the old lady cried and flounced off.

"Stop before someone else sees," Jeremy pleaded.

"Woof!" said Rufus.

It had been fun being a dog, but now Jeremy wanted to change back before Rufus got him into serious trouble.

"There you are. I’ve been looking for you everywhere."

Jeremy swung around to see Mrs Peacock waddling up. He was about to speak when he remembered he was still Rufus.

"Good grief!" she cried, noticing his uniform. " Whatever happened? You look like you’ve been dragged through a hedge backyards."

Rufus cocked his head on one side.

"Well, why don’t you answer?" she demanded. "Sulking are we? Well that’s just fine. You can explain your torn uniform to her Lady… I mean your mother. Come on let’s get you home."

She took Rufus by the arm and headed for home. All Jeremy could do, was trot behind them.

Jeremy’s parents were going to a meeting and wanted dinner early. That’s why Mrs Peacock was sent to find him. The only thing was, she took Rufus home instead.

Jeremy tried to get in the house but she chased him away.

"A dog in the house," she tutted. "Mrs Turner would have a fit."

From outside the dining room window, Jeremy watched. His parents were too busy talking about work to notice Rufus was not speaking.

Rufus sniffed the plate Mrs Peacock put in front of him. Then he began licking the gravy. Gravy, peas and slices of carrots spilled all over the spotless white tablecloth.

Jeremy clamped his paws on his head, helpless to do anything.

Incredibly his parents hadn’t noticed. They were still talking.

Jeremy watched as Rufus picked up his piece of steak in his teeth and shook it. Gravy splattered all over the white wall. The steak fell to the ground and Rufus crouched on the floor and ate it.

Mrs Peacock came in, let out a loud squawk and dropped the tray she was carrying.

"Jeremy I demand an explanation for this," his mother demanded.

"Woof!" answered Rufus.

"Answer your mother this instant," his father said.

"Woof!" said Rufus.

Rufus was sent to bed early. The next day when he continued to bark instead of speaking he was kept off school.

"Think of the scandal if this gets out," said Jeremy’s mother.

Listening at the window Jeremy felt more alone than ever.

He spent the night in an empty dog kennel down the street. Next day, he hung about the house watching and listening but unable to get near Rufus.

After school he went to the park and played footie with his classmates. They made a fuss of him, stroked him, tickled his stomach and fed him sweets.

This went on for a few days. His parents were at their wit’s end. Jeremy had always been a model son. He’d never given them a minute’s worry. The last straw came when Mrs Peacock caught Rufus drinking the toilet water. Jeremy’s frantic parents called the doctor.

"He won’t speak. Just barks, you say," said Dr Harper. "Now Jeremy you can tell me what’s the matter."

"Woof!"

"I can’t help you if you won’t speak."

"Woof!"

The doctor scratched his chin. He looked at Jeremy’s parents. "Has he shown any other strange symptoms?"

They told him about the toilet water, that he would only eat and sleep on the floor and how Mrs Peacock had caught him cocking his leg against the furniture.

"Doctor, we are worried sick," said Mrs Turner. "Do you know what is wrong with him?"

"I believe I do. I just want to make an examination first."

He checked Rufus’ blood pressure and put his stethoscope on his chest. While he was doing this Rufus covered his face with big slobbering licks.

Jeremy’s mother sank into a chair and put her head in her hands.

"Well everything appears normal," said the doctor, drying his face on a towel. "It’s just as I thought. A clear case of attention-seeking."

"Attention-seeking," repeated Jeremy’s parents.

"You told me you both work long hours and that you don’t spend much time with your son," said the doctor. "Well, this is his way of grabbing your attention. Basically he’s feeling neglected."

"So what can we do?" asked Jeremy’s father.

"I suggest you start spending time with your son before he develops deep psychiatric problems," the doctor said.

Jeremy’s parents were partners in Turner, Turner and Strong. They rang Mr Strong and told him there was a family crisis and that they were leaving the business in his capable hands for a few days.

Over the next week they took Rufus to funfairs, the cinema and went ten-pin bowling. They tried to indulge his every whim. The problem was that they had to guess what his every whim was because whenever they asked him, he just barked.

Jeremy found all this out by eavesdropping. He laughed when he heard how they’d been thrown off the Ghost Train because Rufus had howled in the tunnel and terrified everyone.

Each day, Jeremy continued to pass the time playing footie and scrounging food from wherever he could. No school, doing exactly what he wanted and no one to tell him off. It was a dog’s life.

Trading places with Rufus had other pluses. He’d shaken off his shyness and had made lots of new friends.

From what he’d heard at the window Jeremy knew that his parents remained hopeful that one day soon their son would start acting normally.

They got their wish one Saturday, when Rufus gave them the slip and met up with Jeremy in the park.

"Rufus, it’s been cool being a dog, but I’d really like to be me again," Jeremy told him.

"Woof!" said Rufus placing his hands on Jeremy’s shaggy chest.

Everything went black for a moment and when the light came back Jeremy was back to his old self.

Mr and Mrs Turner were delighted to have their son back to normal. They promised to get another partner so they would not have to work so hard and could spend more time with Jeremy.

To celebrate they asked Jeremy to name anything he wanted.

Without hesitation Jeremy said: "A dog."

"Oh, I don’t think___" began his mother.

"Excellent," interrupted his father. "Just what you need, a companion."

"But the hairs and the dirty paws… " cried Mrs Turner, then caught the stern look in her husband’s eyes. "Well, if you must. Perhaps a nice little poodle. They don’t cause a mess."

"I was thinking something like this… " said Jeremy going to the door and bringing in Rufus.

Monday morning Jeremy went to school and was mobbed by his classmates who wanted to know why he’d been off so long. He told them the story his parents had made up about a family crisis.

After school Rufus was waiting for Jeremy. His classmates were heading for the park to play footie.

On an impulse Jeremy asked: "Can we come and play?"

"Is that your dog? asked Johnny Green.

Jeremy nodded.

"Well, if you can play as good as he can, we want you on the team," said Steve Watson. "Come on."

Jeremy beamed. If he’d had a tail he would have wagged it.
