My dear Richard,

I apologise for the delay in writing to you but it's only now I am beginning to come to terms with the implications of your discovery, and also the news of your collaboration with the woman known to you as Pandora. Since I am certain Washington did not inform you of my involvement in this case, I must assume it was Pandora herself who told you. Considering the rather zealous security regime under which we are both accustomed to operating, you no doubt appreciate the risk you took in contacting me with this information. However, I'm certain Pandora has seen to it that your letter is overlooked by the authorities, and likewise this equally indiscreet reply.

You ask me what I think the future holds for us now? Well, it is not for us to speculate much beyond the present moment, but I do believe your concerns are well grounded. From the outset I should say that Pandora was a curious case, but alas not one for the medical journals. I still need to earn a living and must therefore preserve whatever I can of my professional reputation. Nothing of what I am about to say will be of any practical benefit to you, or indeed to any of us. Also, I half suspect you will dismiss my words as nothing more than the ramblings of a fool who has dallied once too often with what Freud called the black tide of the occult. The most I can hope for is that my words might lessen your feelings of guilt that any of this is somehow your fault. You are a victim of fate, my dear Richard, as are we all.

The woman you speak of uses many names. The alias of Pandora is merely the one she presented to her inquisitors at the place known to me simply as The Bunker - where, by considerable subterfuge, she had succeeded in arranging her incarceration. During my brief time in that place, as resident psychologist, I was to discover many disturbing things about her, but the most immediately striking was her appearance, the subtleties of which our Transatlantic cousins may not have thought necessary to explain to you. I cannot say how she appears to you, but to me she is rather a tall woman, full figured, olive complexion, long black hair, prominent lips and green eyes. Already perhaps you are wondering if we are discussing the same person? Well, it may also surprise you that my predecessor, our former mentor, Professor Janus, saw her as a less voluptuous creature - painfully thin, in fact, and blonde, with eyes of piercing blue.

I know what you're thinking. I was sceptical too when Janus informed me of this enigma on my first day at The Bunker. To prove his point, he produced a camera, took a picture of Pandora in my presence, then asked me to do the same. I should also say that Pandora was not aware of us at the time - our observations being carried out through the one way glass of her cell. Janus then printed out both pictures, laid them on the table before me, and there the remarkable discrepancy was confirmed. They appeared to be pictures of two completely different women. With a something of a weary look, Janus then pinned them to a notice board which held a veritable sea of women's faces, all different, yet he insisted each was a likeness of Pandora.

"I'll be straight with you, Adam," he told me. "I'm leaving because they want me out. And they want me out because I've made no progress with this case at all."

I was still dazed by what I had just witnessed, and a little slow in my response. "That seems unfair, Professor. I would defy anyone to come up with an answer to this."

"This is nothing." He waved his finger dismissively at the pictures. "This,… this is just the beginning of your troubles. Yet answers are what the administration wants, and sooner rather than later, or Washington will take her and that's the last we'll ever hear of it." He gave a shrug. "To tell the truth, I'm glad to be going. As soon as I walk out of here I'll be spending the rest of my life convincing myself none of this ever happened."

I looked more closely at the pictures, only half listening to Janus who, as you may remember from our student days, always had something of a reputation for melodrama.

"All taken by different people," I said, though I spoke mainly to myself. "Each saw a different person, a different reality, a reality that was even impressed upon the independent medium of the camera's sensor. But independent in what sense? Causally? Psychically?" I turned to Janus. "Is she a soul image do you think, Professor?"

Janus wiped a bead of sweat from his forehead and grimaced. Clearly he still found my loyalty to the Zurich School irritating, yet he had recommended me as his replacement, which I found puzzling. "I thought you might suggest such a thing," he said, coldly. "But half of these pictures were taken by women. The soul image is of the opposite gender to the host, is it not? On such a basis I would expect the women to see and take pictures of men. No, by any criterion this creature is female. Her appearance is to some extent determined by the individual, that much is obvious,… but it is not a projection, not a manifestation of the anima archetype,… not, my dear Adam, a soul image."

"What about her psyche?"

"It is strange."

"How so? You mentioned nothing in the report."

"There was nothing to mention. No chinks, no cracks. The creature is perfectly sane, to an inhuman degree."

"There must be something! Even a residual childhood neurosis. There's always a way in, Professor."

"Ordinarily that is true."

I looked again at the pictures. "The datum markings on her body are the same," I observed, "Only the physiology changes?"

"That is correct. When she was first brought here she was clothed, not as you see her now, in her natural state. In those days, it was observed that the clothing remained always the same, also the ornamentation - the creature wore rings and various piercings, like any regular female. All of these things were found to be consistent, regardless of the observer. Only the biometrics are seen to change, from the surface of the skin inwards."

"Do others report the same personality characteristics? You have done association tests?"

He seemed impatient, even irritated somehow as if he felt that all I was doing in questioning him was pointing out his failings in the matter.

"Yes, yes. Again inconclusive. The results always reflect the personality of whoever carries out the experiment. Yet, I swear underneath the surface, the psyche of this creature remains the same. It is simply a surface we cannot penetrate."

"You keep referring to her as a creature."

"This is the only conclusion I can draw."

"Surely, DNA will reveal her origins."

"Inconclusive,… like the photographs, and personality tests, it depends on who does the experiment."

The following morning, I bade farewell to the professor at the security shaft, and never a more dejected figure have I seen.

"Good luck, Adam," he said. "You will need it."

After watching him leave, I returned to my consulting room. On the way, I encountered Pandora for the first time. She was being led along the connecting corridor between the detention unit and the medical section. She was wearing only a pair of brutish manacles and the place was bustling with staff. It struck me then as an infringement of basic decency, keeping her naked like that, especially in such a public place, but then I'd only been there a couple of days and had yet to make that crucial judgement concerning her humanity, or lack of it. The datum markings that had been made upon her body, using an indelible dye, also seemed an unnecessary degradation, as indeed were the curious looks of the non medical hangers-on, who obviously deemed her human enough for their own prurient purposes.

I caught her eye briefly, just before they led her into the MRI suite and she gave me a look that signified something, a sort of recognition. I caught my breath, then the doors banged shut and she was led off to have the secrets of her vital organs probed. I remained rooted for some time, until I was eventually moved on by an officious military policeman.

I tell you Richard, I had seen something reflected in that woman and I can only describe it as the purest image of my self. It was like looking in a mirror and knowing that what I saw actually existed somewhere beyond its reflective plane.

I was utterly shaken by it.

The following morning, being an authorised recipient, I studied that MRI report intently. But, as Janus had warned me, its conclusions were inconclusive, as were the conclusions of every biometric and psychological experiment that had thus far been performed upon her. The report cited problems with the scanner, which had resulted in certain inconsistencies. It was the same story with everything, from her appearance to the analysis of her bodily wastes. All the reports ever compiled on the phenomenon of Pandora clung doggedly to the desire to elucidate an explanation that was essentially rational, hence talk of faulty equipment and the need for more tests. But to my eye, they were missing the point. There was nothing wrong with the equipment, nor the procedures, and if we took the collated data at face value, then Pandora had to be classified as only generically human.

The precise details, the nitty gritty of her personhood depended on who was doing the looking. I had gone over the DNA analysis and even there, the evidence of inherited characteristics matched those of whoever had studied the samples, as if in performing the experiment, the person had been staring back at their own prehistoric origins, their own ethnicity. The truth was plain for all to see, yet everyone was hiding behind the increasingly tattered curtain of scientific respectability. And the truth, my dear Richard is that there is no rational explanation to the phenomenon of Pandora. She was, is, in fantasy parlance, a shapeshifter, a sprite, a figment of the collective imagination - if there be such a thing. She is an anomaly of the first rate,… an effect without any apparent cause.

I had my first consultation with her that same afternoon. It was only my second day at the bunker and already I was becoming disorientated by my life deep under the Yorkshire countryside. There was no natural daylight of course and even our air was recycled so as to disguise our topside emissions. They say even our American cousins are unaware of the location of that place and I can well believe it. She was brought into my consulting room by two strapping male nurses who fastened her manacles to the table between us. This meant she had to lean forwards in an uncomfortable and submissive manner. Though I found this distasteful, and questioned the procedure, I was told it was a necessary precaution, for my own safety. I was not entirely convinced and asked that as a concession she be clothed, if only to spare my own embarrassment. My request met with a snide expression from the security controller, as if it betrayed a weakness on my part, a kind of perversion that I should hold to any respectable values at all. In a somewhat half hearted response to my wishes Pandora had been thrust into a flimsy paper overall. I was not pleased by any of this, but there was little I could do to alter the utilitarian culture of the administration. Pandora, I'm afraid, was never anything more than a piece of meat to them at that time.

In light of this, her disposition seemed rather more cheery than I would have expected. As soon as we were left alone her face cracked into what I can only describe as a cheeky grin. "You're different," she said.

"Different?"

"Where's Janus?"

"Oh, he's rather busy. I'll be standing in for a few days."

"Why you, I wonder?"

"Why me?"

"Why replace him with you? What's your speciality?"

"What makes you think anyone has been replaced?"

Her manner was quite matter of fact and I felt completely wrong-footed by her. Her accent struck me as familiar, the same intonations as those I had grown up with in a Devon fishing village. There was no longer anything remarkable in this of course and I suspected that all who heard her would swear she spoke their mother tongue.

"I am just another psychiatrist. A former student of Professor Janus."

"I see. And was he a good teacher?"

The consultation - I refute the term interrogation - was not going well. It was my role to act as the superior psyche, but already I was floundering and my questioning had not yet begun.

"Was Professor Janus a good teacher?" she repeated.

As you know Janus is considered to be a brilliant man, but rather a poor teacher - too bound up with his own theories to take much of an interest in his students. You may recall how we had been left to find our own way, some of us taking a more circuitous route to our doctorates than others. I strayed into the realms of psychological heresy, while you my dear Richard, strayed even further, throwing away your medical books and walking into the department of theoretical physics. How many times have I wished I had done the same thing?

"He was all right," I said, at which she smiled.

"By such faint praise one is damned, Doctor. You differed in some fundamental respect?"

"Professor Janus' theories of the psyche have their roots in the Vienna School. My own leanings are towards Zurich and this did not always meet with his approval."

"I see," she said, and yes my dear Richard, I believe she did see. I had not expected her to know what I was talking about, and thereby I had hoped to gain the upper hand for once, but she understood things perfectly well.

"Why am I wearing this unattractive paper suit?" she asked."I have not been allowed clothes for some time now. They seem interested in observing the marks on my skin."

"You were dressed at my request."

"Oh? The others seem not to mind interviewing me unclothed."

"It puzzles me why that doesn't concern you." I said, thinking it was time I made a start on testing for the cracks in her psyche, instead of her searching for the cracks in mine. "I mean spending all your time being observed and moved around like that. Does it not make you feel vulnerable? Humiliated?"

"What choice do I have? But, since you ask, I have no embarrassment about it and no practical need for clothes anyway because it is quite warm down here. I take it it is "down" somewhere? It is a sort of underground place? A prison for special suspects? People who are suspected of posing a serious but undefined threat. Only I have the impression I am the only one here, and it seems an awful lot of trouble to go to just for me."

I regarded her in silence.

"It's all right," she went on. "I know you can't tell me anything. But so few people actually seem to want to talk to me. I used to look forward to my interviews with Professor Janus - not that I got anything out of him either. He was more concerned with his experiments which seemed to consist entirely of firing words at me and timing my responses."

I let out a deep breath, eased back in my chair and let her talk for a while. Eventually she picked up on my detachment and paused in mid stream, perhaps to check that I was still listening. "I'm sorry, Doctor. You have some experiments you need to do as well? Please go ahead. I am ready. But if you told me what you were looking for, then perhaps I could arrange for it to appear in the results?"

I laid down my papers in defeat. By now, I was certain she did indeed possess the ability to adjust her psyche to suit whatever I was looking for. "Let's forget it then, shall we?"

"What else would you like to know?"

"How about your real name."

"Everyone just calls me Pandora."

"And where are you from, Pandora? You sound like you're from the village where I grew up, but I suspect you're not."

"You learn quickly. Such definitions hold no real meaning do they? I think you know that."

"Pandora, wouldn't you like to get out of here?"

"My dear Doctor, I was picked up on the edge of a battlefield in the Middle East, two years ago with no papers and no satisfactory explanation. I have no identity and no one knows I am here. Poor Pandora, she is going nowhere."

I had to agree, her analysis was probably correct.

"Perhaps if you cooperated, even just a little." I was desperate now, but she remained unmoved. "Any answers I can give are not likely to be understood. What you seem to want is something altogether more tangible than I can give , a truth that is testable, independently verifiable. But I don't deal in tangibles. I am what you might call a grey area."

"Then I am your man," I said. "I don't deal in tangibles either. Indeed my whole field of expertise is defined only by its infinite shades of greyness. Try me."

"Yes my dear," she said. "I shall try you,… in good time."

Conditions for staff at The Bunker were tolerable, with comfortable rooms and passable catering facilities, yet it was still a strict policy that non-military personnel were required to spend no longer than two weeks at a time underground. There were no exceptions and even though my work was pressing, I eventually found myself holed up at the Grand Hotel in Scarborough, a world away from the intrigue and the frustrations of Pandora. It was a blessed relief to be frank, and even the grey winter light seemed razor sharp in comparison to the neon-lit confines of The Bunker.

I had arrived at the Grand with a few bags and a box of books. The weather was atrocious but no more than one can expect for January. I had a week to write up my notes and refresh my senses, and it appeared most of the time would be spent in my rooms, or the hotel lounge.

It was after dinner, one evening towards the end of that week that I returned to my rooms to find a maid sitting cross legged upon my bed in the most impertinent manner. She was surrounded by the books she had taken from my box and was so engrossed in her reading, she did not even bother to look up when I approached. I was about to ask her what she thought she was doing when she halted my advance by gesturing with one gracefully upturned palm to the window seat.

"I've made you some tea," she said.

My indignation was transformed at once into astonishment: It was Pandora!

Slowly, I backed away, my fingers curling around the 'phone in my pocket, ready to dial emergency. "They'll be looking for you," I warned, though mostly in self defence, hoping I could frighten her away.

"Who will they be looking for?" she asked.

"You, Pandora."

"But my name is Melanie," she said, and she pointed to her badge. "See? M.E.L.A.N.I.E."

"How did you get out? It's impossible."

"Difficult enough, I grant you. And not really worth trying. Poor Pandora, she really is in a fix, isn't she? But Melanie's worked here for six months. You can ask at the desk."

She held up a thick volume on the history of the New Age movement. "You like to read around your subject, I see. Or is this a purely recreational text - a bit heavy going though, isn't it? I much prefer a light romance for relaxation. You should get out more. Scarborough's a lovely town, even in mid-winter. "

I sank into an armchair and gazed at her. I tell you, Richard, I have never before felt such an upswell of irrational fear. As you know, all my life I have dallied with the possibility of the irrational. I have paddled my flimsy canoe into the most notoriously pseudo-scientific backwaters, all to Janus' perpetual disgust. I felt I could cope objectively with anything, even the manifestation of something that was patently impossible, but now I know I was mistaken. The rational, dear Richard, is no defence when exposed to the irrational. Indeed, it is our undoing. No matter how free we think our thoughts are, rationality is the one thing we return to when threatened by the unknown.

"What exactly are you?" I asked.

She shook her head and gave me a patient smile. "What is it you think or fear that I might be?"

"That you're extraterrestrial - or something."

"Or something? Please define 'something'!"

"I don't know. Its merely a conjecture."

She tossed the book on the floor between us where it landed with a resounding thump. Then the atmosphere became almost tangibly sinister.

"But what are your thoughts, my dear?"

"I have no thoughts, only observations."

"My! How careful we are with words! Then tell me your observations."

"You exist in generic form, but lack the authentic inconsistencies that give rise to identity. These inconsistencies you manifest by acting as a psychic mirror, allowing others to project their own impressions, to see in you whatever they want to see."

"So am I less than human then?"

"It's not for me to draw a distinction, only to observe."

"Ah! Yes, my dear. You and me both. Our task is to observe. But soon I must act and when I do, you will have no choice but to act as well, to guide as many who will listen."

"Guide? To what?"

"To the conclusion that all of what you consider to be reality, can in fact be transcended. This will be your only hope of escaping what is about to happen."

I did not pretend to understand what she meant, though I had an uneasy feeling I would shortly find out. "Pandora was observing us when she was taken?"

"Yes. Such a messy business, war. Your ability to ignore the sufferings of your fellow beings is remarkable, though, so far as I can see, a prerequisite for conducting many of your affairs. You seem slow to grasp the cosmic principle that one's true path in life is that which does not subvert the path of others."

"We're not completely void of compassion," I told her. "If we do inflict suffering on others it's usually in order to achieve a greater good."

She moved to the window and looked out to where the North Sea was pounding the beach. "There are islands of calm," she mused, wiping away a layer of dust with her cleaning cloth. "But the ocean grows ever more treacherous. And you are right: Sometimes we must think of the greater good." She turned suddenly. "Tomorrow is my day off. Walk out with me?"

"But the weather is forecast is for storms tomorrow,… "

"I think not," she replied and there was such a tone of certainty, of finality in her voice that I could not doubt her.

Sure enough, in the morning, there was a clear blue sky, a calm sea and a low sun causing mist to rise from the damp sand, but stepping out onto the hotel terrace, I was at once aware that all was not well. Indeed it struck me that I might not yet be awake, that I was still in bed, dreaming.

You were always a level headed sort of chap, Richard and therefore I understand how unlikely any of this will sound to you, but beyond the bounds of the hotel, Scarborough did not exist. There was another landscape, green and rolling. And it was no longer January, but high summer.

Pandora, or Melanie, or whatever you want to call her appeared, walking up the steps towards me. She was dressed like a nineteen thirties movie star, in high heels, seamed stockings, a dark suit and a little hat with a feather. She might easily have passed for Myrna Loy in the film "It Happened One Night" - that same pugnacious energy. I was dressed it seems like Clark Gable, and sported a razor thin moustache.

"I thought it would be less traumatic for you if we did it this way," she said.

I somehow doubted that, but there was clearly no going back now. There was a strange sense of reality having been rendered pliable, that no matter what absurdities I was presented with I would react to them in an entirely natural way.

"You're instructing me in a dream," I said.

She smiled approvingly. "Your willingness to work beyond the bounds of causality does you credit, Adam."

"How do you know me? I've never used my name with you. They don't allow it."

Myrna Loy linked arms with Clark Gable, looked sideways at him and laughed. "My dear," she said. "I know everybody."

We walked at a leisurely pace through the hotel gardens, towards the beach. In a meadow close by, a carnival was taking place - roundabouts, waltzers and myriad sideshows, all squashed very closely together, and it was into this scene that she led me.

"Why these costumes," I remarked, observing the crowds.

"I'm fond of this period," she said. "It's also useful for you to see things this way, a slight adjustment in your reality, but still tangible. This is the manifest content, as you would say - the motifs, the symbolism, the threads from which the tapestry of meaning is woven."

"But if that is so, then you are the unknown woman in my dream, which makes you my soul image. Janus rejected that, and I agreed with him. You cannot be a soul image."

"That is true, Adam - but then I am not entirely unknown to you . There are many unknown women here, all willing candidates for your soul image. Do you not see Ingrid Bergman watching you from the Cocks and Hens? Or Lauren Bacall, over there by the Waltzer? Were you alone, one of them would be sure to approach and become your psycho-pomp for the night, but they keep their distance, because they see that I am with you. Tonight, my dear, I shall be your guide."

"Then you are an archetype? You are a focus for unconscious energy, of certain type."

"I am an archetype, of sorts, yes, but I inhabit a realm that is deeper than the unconscious."

"Deeper? Then you speak of the self?"

"Deeper than the self."

"But nothing is deeper than the self."

"That is a very limited view, my dear, and one you will be shortly be called to think upon. But enough of that! Look at the moon, isn't it beautiful?"

I followed her outstretched arm to where a rose-tinted moon rode high above the headland. It was encircled by a plane of concentric rings, rather like Saturn.

"Interpret your dream for me thus far." she said.

I took a deep breath, then began my stringing together of associations: "A different moon,… a different planet, a different world. You like this period, something about the time you said,… time, space, distance. When we look into space we look back in time. I also have the feeling there are 11 rings around the moon, though I haven't counted them."

"Very good. We are looking back in time. 11 light years to be precise. This world is 11 light years away from earth. It is the third planet in a sytem not unlike your own."

"This place really exists? I mean in a rock hard, tangible, fiery balled sun sort of way?"

"Oh yes. It doesn't look exactly like this of course. This is just a dream remember. All the images to illustrate what I am teaching you come from your own memory. If anything, you would find it even more beautiful in reality."

"But this is so far away, so long ago. How does this have anything to do with us?"

"The people here are industrious," she began. "They are also peaceful. A century ago, they stumbled upon a source of energy that would take them to their nearest neighbour, a less advanced people, barely a light year away, a distance they covered in a matter of weeks. They did this in a spirit of adventure, but on arrival deemed their neighbours to be ill prepared for the appearance of extra terrestrial beings, so they came and went without being seen, and they haven't been back."

"They sound a very enlightened race."

"They are indeed. That's why they've survived the discovery of the source."

She led me through the crowds to where a huge "test your strength" machine had been set up, and a moustachioed man in a top hat sat waiting.

"The source of the energy," she went on. "It's a curious thing, quite simple to produce, and clean, yet enormously powerful. It is nothing less than tapping into the latent energy of the cosmos. It sounds complex but really anyone with a basic knowledge of physics and an average laboratory such as you might find in any school or university, could do it. When applied to space travel, this energy can be used to warp the space ahead of the vessel, compressing it, creating a tunnel if you like through which the vessel can travel vast distances in a short period of time."

"It sounds too good to be true. Is this still the manifest content of my dream? Do I interpret this energy source as a symbol for something else?"

Melanie paused beside the moustachioed man and he handed her a huge mallet which she studied closely. "The source is real enough. But of course, it creates something of a problem, depending on who discovers it."

"Oh?"

"Such a thing can be harnessed wisely, or it can destroy a world. It's one thing to warp the void of space, in order to ease the passage of a vessel, but to warp matter is to dissipate it. Imagine: every man and woman gathered here has the means to destroy their world, should they feel inclined - yet the thought never enters their heads. Any dispute, political, social, be it on the global scale or as insignificant as a domestic squabble between a man and his wife, could trigger Armageddon and wipe out the entire planet, but it never has." She regarded me closely. "You think that unnatural?"

"In human terms, sadly, yes."

"Yet it is the goal to which you aspire. Tell me do you think you shall ever attain it?"

"We have a lot of problems to transcend - you've been observing us, so you know better than I the nature of those troubles. But in time, over many generations, centuries even, yes, I'm confident that is our destiny. One day we will be like these people. Otherwise it's all just a cruel joke. And I don't believe the cosmos is inherently cruel."

Melanie took the mallet and swung it down upon the plunger of the "test your strength machine". A cylinder of metal shot up the pole and rang the bell. The moustachioed man doffed his hat and handed her a teddy bear which she then gave to me.

"Your optimism is heart warming, Adam. But time is against you."

"Time?"

"Indeed, your time is up," she said. "Telescopes on Earth are already studying the electromagnetic spectrum of this system. In the next decade, analysis will reveal this planet's blue green form, its oxygen based atmosphere. And in the latter part of the century, probes will be dispatched."

"But it's eleven light years away! It might as well be on the other side of the universe as far as our technology is concerned. It would take hundreds of years for us to get here. I'd say we've little to gain from doing such a thing."

"Would it interest you to know that in a deeper level of the place you call The Bunker, they are researching the possibility of storing human eggs indefinitely and then fertilising them automatically, by machine - hundreds, or thousands of years later? They are researching methods of automatically rearing the offspring, educating them, preparing them. Now,… I agree, with your current technology, it would take centuries for a vessel to reach here. But what does that matter if the landing party is only conceived once the ship is safely in orbit?"

What was she saying? That we had devised a means of artificially breeding human beings? That we could scatter our unfertilised seed to the four winds of the universe? That it it didn't matter if it took a hundred, or indeed a million years for the seed to fetch up on some foreign shore? That whenever the time was right, the seed would be fertilised and human life, human thought, human souls would spring out of the void?

"It's a monstrous idea," I said. "Artificially breeding and sustaining a human cargo for the sole purpose of what? Colonisation? Such a thing would never be allowed."

We walked free of the crowds, and began to stroll across the sand, towards the sea. "But if it were true, my dear?"

"I take it this part of the dream is visionary in a literal sense." I took a breath. "The artificial gestation of human life for the purpose of colonising other worlds, centuries, or even millennia from earth? It's unthinkable. The colonists would grow up out there, in the creaky hull of their mothership, only surviving on the off chance that everything still worked, and that they could eventually get down to the planet's surface. Who knows what horrors they might endure? It's one way of propagating the species of course, but it would never be sanctioned. It's inhuman."

"But no one would know these children of earth. They would be a mere potential, a seed when they departed. Why should anyone mourn them if they failed? They would not be human when they departed, only when they arrived."

I knelt down and sifted the sand between my fingers. It was real sand, earth sand, the sand I had made castles with in years gone by upon the beaches of my childhood. Might it really come to that, I wondered? Might we one day rain down from the skies of worlds as far away as this?

"This is an advanced society," I said. "They have a collective psyche quite unlike ours, capable of handling a destructive energy without the slightest risk of harming themselves. They'd see us coming. They'd have decades to prepare for it. They could prevent it."

"These people would never take a life, or prevent its causation. It would be seen as an interference with their own fate. It is simply their way."

"Then if they're so altruistic, they could find a way of assimilating a few human beings."

"But dare we let that human seed reach this far? In a few generations, might not the psyche of this world be irretrievably corrupted? Might they not begin thinking of weapons?"

"Not all humans think of weapons."

"Yes they do. And thereby a species usually extincts itself long before it learns the secrets of artificial reproduction. Usually the source is discovered before the collective psyche is adapted to deal with it and thus the problem solves itself. But in the case of humankind, you appear to have found a way to escape your necessary quarantine."

"But if our arrival here is fated, which is what you seem to be telling me, then nothing can prevent it."

"I can prevent it," she said.

"How can you alter fate?"

"Because I am fate, my dear," she said. "I am the way. I am the light that guides you. I am the one that gave you form."

"And you can destroy us?"

"Of course, though I'm sure I can safely rely on you to do that for yourselves. And these people have passed the test. They are deserving of another world. Earth would suit them very well,… if it were ever to become,… shall we say,… vacant?"

I woke to the sound of rain against my window as a thin, grey light crept into my hotel room. Melanie was sitting in the window seat, leafing through a romantic novel, while intermittently gazing over her shoulder at the North Sea, cold and black, thundering upon the beach. She told me that in an hour I would be recalled to the bunker, that I would be dismissed without reason, but that I should not blame myself. The administration, she explained, had given in to pressure from Washington, and that the creature known as Pandora was already bound for a certain bunker deep below the hills of Pennsylvania.

And what, I asked, was to be our fate?

"Hush now, my dear," she replied.

On the pillow beside me lay the teddy bear. I knew then what was coming and I gathered it to me, lay my face against its soft fur and closed my eyes. There I remained until I was disturbed by the ringing of a telephone. Melanie was still with me, watching quietly - my role in her scheme apparently not yet complete - though, incredible as it might seem to you, her chimerical counterpart, Pandora was already on a flight bound for America.

It does not surprise me then my dear Richard that you now speak of Pandora in the same letter in which you also outline your remarkable discovery of a limitless energy source. You have tapped into the very energy of the cosmos. The administration may deem it too dangerous a thing of course and attempt to suppress all knowledge of it other than for military purposes, but we both know the collective nature of such things and that knowledge of it will leak out by other means. This is something that might easily have carried us to the stars, but as Pandora or Melanie reminds me we are certain of destroying ourselves with it before even our fledgeling starships have left the drawing board. It puts the power of the atom into the hands of every ego-centric psyche on the planet.

God help us!

Only the fittest might visit other worlds, as we have dreamed of doing, but first they must face a test - one we shall shortly fail. It is not the fittest intellect that shall grant us access to the stars, but the fittest psyche, which is somewhat different.

You cannot undo what you have discovered, nor must you blame yourself my dear Richard. It was Pandora who granted you the key that opened the box, for you to peer inside at secrets she deemed prudent to divulge. I remember that conversation I had with her upon a beach one summer long ago. And though it was only a dream, I caught, amongst its manifest content, a glimpse of something I have been searching for for a long time: it was an absence of fear, an acceptance of my role and an acceptance too of my inability to control my fate.

You may remember Janus teaching us that even the simplest of neuroses cannot be cured by physical means. If we fear spiders, we cannot cure that fear by exterminating all spiders, nor by merely avoiding them. Instead we must find a way of transcending the fear, of simply not minding spiders any more. All our lives, our psychological development requires us to transcend our fears. It was your fate to secure the annihilation of mankind, while mine it seems is to teach as many who will listen how we might, if not exactly avoid our fate, at least transcend our condition, so that we do not mind it so much any more. To this end I suspect Pandora is not entirely without compassion, and among the demons in that box I think, as legend suggests, we will also discover a kind of hope. As I write, Melanie reminds me she will gift me the knowledge to see this through to the end, and in our final moments clasp me to her bosom,… as I am certain Pandora will equally be there,…

… ..to comfort you.
