What a beautiful drive, I thought, as we headed towards Albany and my sister's place. This was what we’d been waiting for — July, 1995 and Bill’s retirement. Upstate New York’s Route 7 runs parallel to Interstate 88, quiet and pretty, with towns dotting the rolling landscape. We both loved living in Florida, but this was a pleasant change. And I hadn’t seen my sister in two years.

There was a hard ‘thump’ and shards of glass sprayed the windshield. “Oh my God! Bill! What was that?”

“I hit a deer. I caught a glimpse of it as it jumped. Of all the rotten luck!”

The town of Worcester was still visible in our rear view mirror as my husband stopped and walked over to the crumpled form of a small spotted deer. “It’s only a fawn,” he said, shaking his head. “Just a baby.”

While we were looking at our smashed grill and broken headlight a car pulled up and the driver stepped out. He was tall, heavyset, wearing a dirty coverall. He was chewing on a toothpick clamped between his teeth. Strapped around his waist was a belt, and one of the biggest knives I had ever seen.

“Tough luck,” he said, glancing at the animal. “No help for him. Car okay?” Hands jammed in his pockets, he sauntered over and looked at the front of our van. “That there tire’s gonna rub against the fender. Good thing I came along ‘cause you’re gonna need that looked at. You folks just passin’ through?”

When we didn’t respond, he shrugged. “Just askin’. Saw you come off the interstate — might be able to help you out. I know a mechanic — not far, either. Does good work and he’ll fix it fast. Where you folks from?”

“Where is this mechanic located?” Bill asked, again ignoring his question.

“Back there a couple miles.” He was gesturing behind him. “You just follow me. I’ll take you to his place.” He started toward his car.

“Bill!” They both turned and when the stranger looked at me his eyes seemed to narrow. Bill came back to where I stood. “I don’t like this,” I whispered. “Let’s go on to my sister’s — we’ll be careful.”

“That’s at least a hundred miles, Sue. I might be able to pull that fender out, but if the front end’s damaged we could have a real problem.”

“Thanks anyway,” he said to the stranger, “but I think we’ll find a phone and call our insurance company before we do anything.”

“My friend has a phone at his garage. Look. My name’s Larry and I’d really like to help you folks out. Why don’t you follow me to his place and talk to him? He knows his business. You’re takin’ a big chance driving that car — you don’t know what happened under the hood. You can call while he looks at the damage, then decide.”

The thick, smooth voice drifted over to me. My husband hesitated, glanced in my direction. “Well, I — I guess it should be checked.” He looked at me again. “Okay, we’ll go to your friend’s garage.”

Larry’s eyes met mine and he smiled — a smile that almost looked evil. “Turn right at the stop sign in town,” he said. “It’s only a little ways out — you just follow me.”

Bill settled in behind the wheel and started the engine before speaking. “He has a point, Sue. I don’t want anything worse to happen. I’ll have the guy check it out, then we’ll decide. Okay?”

I nodded. My husband was trusting — it was his nature. He walked through life believing that most people were good and his trust usually paid off. I was the suspicious one and right now, my senses were flashing caution, caution, caution!

We followed Larry down what looked like little more than a dirt path. “Where’s he going? I can hardly see a road.”

“The trees are pretty thick,” said Bill. By the time we turned, our guide had all but vanished. Suddenly we came out into a clearing strewn with old, rusting farm machinery and cars, in various stages of dismemberment.

“Talk about no mans’ land,” my husband observed. “You could drop off the face of the earth up here.”

“Lovely thought,” I said. We watched Larry walk toward a dimly lit garage where someone appeared to be working on a vehicle. After a brief conversation, both men approached us. They were similar in appearance from their expressions down to their shoes.

“This here’s my friend Joe. He’s real good at fixin’ cars,” said Larry. “You folks never did tell me your name.”

“I’m Bill Andrews and this is my wife, Sue. Do you have a phone I could use? I’d like to notify our insurance company.”

“Inside the door on the left,” said Joe. “Meantime, I’ll take a quick look at your car, if you’ll pop the hood.”

“Sure,” Bill answered. He reached down, pulled the lever and I stepped out of the car. While he was crossing the distance to the garage, both Joe and Larry put their heads under the hood, out of my vision. Bill disappeared through the door and the next thing I knew there was an explosion. It seemed as if the entire car was filling with smoke. The speed of the inflating air bag made me duck. I must have let out a yell, because Bill came running out of the building.

“Sue! What’s wrong? Oh my God! What made that happen?”

“The sensor tripped,” Joe said. “I barely touched it and the thing went off. Good thing you weren’t drivin’ any distance. Could have had a real serious accident — might even been killed. Did ya get your insurance company?”

“No, I didn’t. It seems that your phone doesn’t work.”

“You sure? It was okay a few minutes ago. Let me go check.” They walked back and I could hear my husband’s agitated voice. His face was red as he came through the door. “We’re leaving!” he stated, striding toward me.

“Can you drive the car like that?” The air bag was already deflated but the smoky substance was still there.

“I don’t think so,” Joe said. “Hey, I can’t help it if the phone’s out of order. Happens all the time out here. Probably go back on soon. Air bag should be replaced though.”

Bill turned the key and the starter clicked, but nothing else. Two more tries produced the same result. He slammed the palm of his hand down hard on the steering wheel.

“Well, appears she’s gonna need some work before you can leave.” Joe looked around at the deepening shadows. “I got an extra room you can use.” He pointed toward a ramshackle house partially hidden from view. “No sense doin’ anything tonight — can’t see anyway. But I’ll start first light tomorrow. Phone’ll probably be workin’ by then. Don’t worry. We’ll fix ‘er right up. Oh, I’m gonna need your keys. So’s I can start early.” When Bill hesitated, Joe added “Y’know, so’s I can lock ‘er up tonight.”

“Okay, fine,” said Bill. “Just get it so we can drive. We’ll take care of the air bag when we get home.”

  

“I don’t like this at all,” I said, looking at the sparsely furnished room. “Is there a lock on that door?”

“No. Sue, we don’t have another choice, at least not tonight. Try to get some rest.” He stretched out on the bed and I sank down next to him, fully intending to stay awake all night. We were in a situation where we had no control, and no one in the world knew where we were.

My eyes opened as daylight filtered through the dirty window of this strange and silent place. I jumped up, disoriented, calling my husband’s name.

“It’s okay — I’m right here. Did you have a bad dream?”

“No, I — I’m all right, but I could really use a bathroom.”

“I’ll find one — wait here. Don’t wander around without me.” While he was gone, I tried to see something from the window but the angle through the wavy glass showed only the side of the other building and trees to the rear. When I looked at my hand, it was covered with peeling paint from the sill. Harsh morning light revealed a sagging ceiling over shabby walls and a floor coated with dirt that hadn’t happened overnight.

“There’s a bathroom of sorts just down the hall,” Bill announced. “Don’t touch anything if you can help it. Come on — I’ll stand by the door.” A few minutes later we were outside in the yard. Our van was exactly as we left it.

“Where is everyone?” Bill said. “Let’s check the garage.” There was no one there. “Try the phone again. Maybe it started working.” He picked it up, clicked the button a few times, replaced the receiver.

“Nothing. We have to find somebody. Did you notice if Larry’s car is still out there?”

I poked my head out the door and looked around. “It’s gone. Maybe he took Joe somewhere to get a part, or report the phone, I hope. Bill, what are we going to do? We’re trapped up here. Do you think we should try walking out to the road and hailing a ride back to that town?”

“No — not right now, anyway. I’m not going to leave our car here. Someone has to show up, eventually — maybe Joe’s still sleeping.” So we waited. My restlessness drove me from Bill’s side and I wandered through the discarded automobile parts scattered around the yard. So many different pieces — some I could recognize, some not, some looking as if they had only been there a short while. I turned back towards Bill, stumbled and fell against a barrel. My weight caused it to tip, then overturn. Bill came running over.

“Are you all right? Please be careful Sue — you could fall on something sharp … what’s that?” He was looking at a metallic object partially buried in the dirt. I rubbed it with my foot. The outline of a license plate became visible. Closer inspection revealed the word ‘California’ written in red over the number.

“Oh my God, Bill! Look at that!” We both stared. The sticker in the corner read ‘CA 95'. The month was February. This was July. When I looked at him, his eyes were echoing the thought in my head — what was this doing here, buried in the dirt of this man’s yard, so far away from California? “Listen! Is that an engine?” The sound sent us scurrying into action — we quickly stood the barrel upright and distanced ourselves from it. The car pulled up and Joe stepped out, arms laden with sacks that shouted ‘McDonald’s’ all over them.

“You folks hungry?” He was holding a steaming coffee cup toward me. When I reached for it, my hands trembled.

“Well,” Joe said, “the phones are out all over town. Auto shop didn’t open ‘till nine. I can get the parts I need then fix whatever else is wrong. Problem is — gotta pay cash. Afraid my credit ain’t too good lately. Had a few setbacks. So I’m probably gonna need a couple hundred — he don’t take checks.” He looked expectantly at Bill.

“Can’t you pay for them and then we’ll pay you when you’re finished?”

“Well, see — problem is, I’m also kinda broke. You wanna go pick up the parts, it’s okay by me. Larry’ll take you over. But he won’t take your check, neither.”

“My wife can go in with Larry and put them on our credit card. We don’t carry a lot of cash when we travel.”

The two men exchanged a look that made me shiver. “Sure,” said Larry. “I can bring her into town. Take us a couple hours, probably.”

Bill put his arm around my shoulder and walked with me to Larry’s car. “Please be careful,” he said in a low voice. “And when you get to wherever you’re going, try to call the insurance company. Here — take the number. Even if they can’t do anything now, at least we’ll have notified them. And make sure you tell them where we are.”

“I will. And don’t worry — I’ll be fine.” By that time Larry was behind the wheel with the engine running. I opened the door, gave Bill a weak smile and climbed inside. We drove in silence until we reached the main road and Larry turned — in the opposite direction of town.

“Aren’t we going the wrong way?” I asked, motioning behind me.

“We’re not goin’ to Worcester. Place Joe found the parts he needs — it’s just down the road a piece. This here’s a short cut over the mountain. Road’s not real good, but it’s quicker.”

He wasn’t exaggerating. We seemed to climb forever and the farther we went, the worse the road became — in places, little more than dirt where a few patches of pavement still clung. As we neared the bottom on the other side, a town came into sight.

“Shop’s up ahead to the right,” said Larry. He pulled in under a sign that read simply ‘Auto Parts Store’.

“It looks deserted,” I said.

“He knows we’re coming,” Larry answered. He tried the front door and when it didn’t open, he motioned toward the rear of the store. I spoke through the car window. “Do you want me to come with you?”

“No — I’ll come get you if he’s in there. Might have gone to lunch or somethin’.” He disappeared and I leaned back against the seat and closed my eyes, feeling very vulnerable. I needed to keep my wits and all I wanted to do was cry. Larry finally returned and beckoned to me.

“He’s here — doin’ some work in the back. C’mon — we can get the parts and be on our way.” I walked beside him, clutching my purse close to my body as if it were going to be snatched away at any moment. A miniature of Joe’s yard appeared behind the building and a grimy man in coveralls came toward us.

“Got your parts in here,” he was heading toward a door. “C’mon in. We can take care of everything inside.” He was making out a bill as I entered. “Don’t take checks. Did they tell you?”

“Yes. I’m going to pay with a credit card.”

“Oh. Okay, wait a minute. I got a machine around here someplace. Gotta find it. Most people just pay cash.”

“Do you suppose I could use your phone to call my insurance company? It’s a toll-free number.”

“I wouldn’t mind,” he said, “but the phone was out last I checked. Happens all the time around here. All these lines need working on — they’re old. I’ll go see if it’s fixed yet.” When he returned, he was carrying a manual credit card machine and a receipt. “Phone’s still not working — sorry.” He took my card, ran it through his machine and I signed my name. Larry picked up the box with our parts and we headed back over the mountain.

  

“Did you get the carbons from the credit card?” my husband asked.

“There were none — but that doesn’t mean he won’t … ”

“How about his phone? Was it also conveniently out of order?”

“Yes. We can’t call, we can’t leave … ” My voice seemed to stick in my throat. I took a deep breath. “Bill, we’ve got to stop this. I’m really getting scared. Let’s keep out of his way until our car is fixed and we can get out of here. We’ve got to believe everything will be all right!”

We wandered along the side of the house toward the rear and into a yard that was fairly uncluttered. The house seemed to be surrounded by trees except for the front. I was trying to see if there was another way out when Bill’s voice stopped me. “Be careful, Sue. I don’t want to lose sight of you. Let’s find a place to sit and wait.” We were nearing the front when we heard voices coming from the garage.

“… her all the phones were out. I don’t … ”

“Sshht!”

A little sound escaped my throat. I felt like my heart was going to jump out of my chest. What was going on around here? I opened my mouth to speak and Bill put his finger to my lips, then walked noisily into the garage. “How’s the car coming? Did he have all the parts?”

“Sure did. It’s comin’ along just fine. Larry here’s giving me a hand — should be through in a couple hours. You folks get hungry, Larry can take you into town for a sandwich or somethin’. Not much here, unless you want some soup. I don’t do much cookin’. But you’re welcome to the soup. Just help yourself to the kitchen.”

“That’s fine with us,” Bill said. “As long as you don’t mind, that’s what we’ll do.” He was holding my hand tightly, pulling me away from the two men. When we were out of earshot, he turned to me. “Sue, I don’t know what’s going on, but we can’t say or do anything that will make them mad. All I want is to have the car fixed enough to get us the hell out of here. Our only option now is to walk, and then we may get lost, or they might … ” His voice trailed to a stop. A picture of the California plate flashed in my head. I felt ill.

  

The sun was sinking behind the trees when we finally heard their approach. “Well, she’s finished. I’ll let you start ‘er up,” said Joe. We all returned to the garage and sure enough, the van looked complete once more. Bill turned the key and it started immediately. Larry walked around to the other side and leaned down. “If you want to take ‘er for a ride I’ll go along with you. Might be a good idea.”

I started around the car and Joe stopped me. “Tell you what. Why don’t we let them go and we’ll just settle the bill. That way, when they come back, you folks can be on your way.” His fingers moved suggestively against my arm, making my flesh crawl. Bill looked at me and turned off the engine.

“That’s okay,” he said, “I’m sure the car is fine so let’s finish this and we’ll get out of your hair.”

Joe shrugged. “Okay by me. I already got everything figured.”

“There should only be labor,” said Bill. “Sue paid for the parts.”

“There’s a little more than that. I had to use a few things from my place, and you know it took all day. I broke it all down right here — see?”

He handed Bill a piece of paper, and my husband’s eyes opened very wide. “Fifteen hundred bucks!” he choked. “For what? All you did was fix the light and pull out the fender! How can you justify…”

Joe held up his hand. “Well, I did a little more than that. It is what it is — and I don’t take checks, either.”

Our keys were in his hand. They stood between us and our van. They were not smiling.

“Bill please — pay them. I want to get out of here.” His hesitation was brief — he pulled out a credit card. Joe shook his head.

“Sorry folks. I ain’t set up for credit cards. Gotta be cash.”

“You know we don’t carry that much cash,” I said.

“Well, now what’re we gonna do about that?” said Joe. “Guess if you really don’t have it, you’ll have to go into town and draw some out of that bank.”

“There are no banks open at this time of day,” Bill answered. “Look — we’re honest people. We’ll go into town, rent a motel for the night and bring you the money in the morning. You don’t have to worry about us — I’ve never cheated anyone in my life.”

Joe’s laugh was ominous. “I don’t think so. Looks like you’re gonna spend one more night with us. Bank’ll be open at nine in the mornin’ — we’ll settle up then. Oh — Larry here will be stayin’ the night, too. Just in case you get any ideas about leavin’ before then. And I’ll just keep your keys for you.”

  

That night I didn’t close my eyes. I paced. The thought entered my mind that this was the first time I’d ever been in jail. A laugh from somewhere in the house seemed to echo in the hallway before fading away. The room was warm. I was cold.

“He won’t let us both go into town tomorrow,” I said. “You know that. He’s done this before — both of them. It’s extortion.”

“You’re right, Sue. Not that we can do anything about it until we leave. And even then — he’ll give us a bill, which we’ll pay — what would you do about it? They know what they can get away with.” He was silent for a moment. “I actually did think about trying to leave in the middle of the night. I might be able to start the car without the keys, but I’m not sure. And I can’t make things worse than they already are. What time is it now?”

“Three o’clock. A half hour later than last time you asked. And fifteen minutes later than last time I looked.”

“Why don’t you at least try to get some rest?” he said. “In the morning, you go to the bank and I’ll stay here, just like we did yesterday. We’ll pay him and get out of here — then if there’s anything we can do about it, we will. My concern right now is to put as much distance between them and us as possible.” He shook his head.

“Unbelievable — one baby deer created all of this.”

  

The tree tops seemed to dance as the morning sun touched them. I stood beside Bill and watched — the beauty of it out of place here, in our isolation. “Do you hear anyone?” I asked.

“No, but since we're both ready, we may as well go down.”

“Not yet. We can’t do anything until the bank opens and I’d rather spend the time waiting up here — I won’t have to look at them.”

My husband sat on the bed and put his arms around me. “Everything is going to be all right. I’m not going to let anything happen — to either one of us. Please trust me.”

“Yes, Bill. It will all work out—it has to.”

“You ready?” Joe’s voice came from the hall. I looked at my watch — it was eight-thirty.

Outside, Larry was standing next to the open door of our van. He motioned for Bill to sit behind the wheel and I started around to the other side. Again, Joe stopped me.

“You just stay here with me until they get back. It’ll work better that way.”

“Sue, why don’t you go into town with Larry and I’ll stay here,” Bill said. Joe shook his head.

“No — that ain’t the way we’re gonna do it. You go — she stays.” He held up his hand as Bill started to get out of the car.

“It ain’t open for debate,” he said, holding my wrist. “If I were you, I’d get goin’ so’s you can get back here. You wouldn’t want to leave me alone with this pretty little lady too long, would you?”

My husband’s face turned red. “If anything happens to her, I promise you that you will pay, no matter what it costs me.”

Joe laughed. It was an ugly sound. “Then I suggest you get goin’ so you can get back. Or it’ll cost you more than money.”

The wheels spun as Bill gunned the motor. The van disappeared into the trees. I listened to the familiar sound fade into nothing. Only then did I realize that Joe was still touching me. I looked into his grinning face, shuddered and pulled away. “If you don’t mind,” I said, “I think I’ll wander around until they get back.”

“Now wait a minute, little lady. Why don’t you come on in and I’ll make you some coffee?”

“No thanks. I’m fine, really. I — I’ll stay out here.” I stepped away and he reached for me again — this time, he grasped my shoulder.

“Well,” he said, “I want some coffee and I’m not gonna leave you out here alone. Let’s just do this the easy way — and you come on inside with me.” He pushed me toward the house and I didn’t resist. I couldn’t chance his anger while we were here alone, so I would sit, have coffee and talk to him until my husband returned. It would be the safest way, or so I thought.

We walked into the kitchen and I headed for a chair on the opposite side of the table. I cringed as his finger caressed my cheek. “You know you’re right,” I said, hastening away. “Coffee would really taste good right now.”

“Well you sit right there while I get it started. Only take a minute, then we’ll get to know each other. Trouble with people today, everybody’s a stranger. People ought to be friendlier, don’t you think?” He put water and coffee in an electric pot and plugged it in. Then he walked around and sat next to me, pulling his chair close. His leg touched mine. I jumped up as if electrified, scraping the chair loudly against the wooden floor. In no time I was on the other side of the table. He just sat there — laughing.

“Now where do you think you’re goin’, little lady? Y’know, you’re being downright unfriendly. You really don’t want to do that, do you? Old Bill’s gonna be gone a while — Larry’s gonna take him around the long way. We got some time to kill, you and me, and I got a few plans. No sense in fightin’ — won’t do you no good. You ain’t goin’ nowhere.”

He stood and came toward me. The table was large and heavy and I circled it, managing to stay out of his reach. He was laughing as he changed direction, keeping me away from the door and possible freedom. How could I distract him? I couldn't take my eyes off him long enough to look around. The coffee was gurgling, the smell filling the room, steam rising into the air. One more circle and I was standing next to it. I took a deep breath, grabbed the pot and threw it. He saw it coming and raised his arms to shield his face — too late. The lid came off, splashing the hot water.

“Shit! You bitch! You scalded me! I’m gonna … ”

Through the door and outside, I headed for the woods — Joe directly behind me. The thudding footsteps came closer and closer — I felt rather than saw the arm reach out. I veered away. His fingers caught a piece of my shirt. I yanked free. Then I was running in circles, barely avoiding his lunges. I skirted a broken-down truck and almost collided with a brick structure. He was on the other side and reversed his direction — I did the same. When he couldn’t get to me, he stopped. My hands gripped the rough edge as I waited for his next move, panting. We eyed each other — predator and prey, the sound of our ragged breathing pounding in my ears. He swayed and I tensed, ready to go in the opposite direction. How long could I do this — would I last until Bill returned? Joe made his move. He climbed on top of the bricks. I turned and ran. The next thing I heard was a sharp ‘crack’ — whatever he stepped on broke. Good, I thought. Maybe that will slow him down.

“Help!” His voice, muffled.

I glanced over my shoulder and he was gone. All I saw were fingers gripping the brick ledge. Scraping sounds came from inside.

“Help me — please!”

I walked over and cautiously peered into the structure. He was trying to scale one side with his feet while holding on to the other side. It looked like an old well — unused long enough so the sides were dry. The wooden cover had broken, most of it, gone. I few pieces of wood remained, jutting sharply from the sides of the well.

“I can’t hold on — please — help me up.”

“That’s funny,” I said. “Help you up so you can do whatever you want to me. I was born in the city, not the sticks.”

“No — I wasn’t gonna hurt you … ” More scrambling and he managed to brace his back against the far side. He actually started walking up the wall, his hands flat against the bricks behind him. My help was no longer needed — and his tone changed. “Okay,” he grunted, “city or sticks — ain’t gonna make no difference. I was just gonna fun with you — now you ain’t gonna think it’s funny. You can’t get away … ”

He looked up as he spoke those last words — and that's when he disappeared. The brick he was holding broke. His howl echoed for a few seconds, there was a thud, then stillness. I stood motionless, stunned, my hands covering my mouth. No sound came from the well. I looked over the edge. There was nothing to see, only a black hole.

“Joe? Can you hear me? Joe?” Silence. I backed away and looked around. It was so quiet. Even the birds weren’t singing. Almost like they knew.

  

What will he do when he sees Joe is gone? If Larry decided to extract revenge for his friend, my husband would be no match for him. I needed a weapon — a gun would be perfect. Where would he keep it? He must have one — people like him always kept guns. Back inside I yanked open kitchen drawers, my ears straining for the sound of the returning car. The last drawer I opened was full of rags. Nothing! In frustration, I slammed it shut so hard it bounced back, spilling out its contents. Something hard hit the floor. I dug through the rags and there it was — a handgun. Perfect! It would fit into my pocket where it would stay unless I needed it. What if it isn’t loaded? I ejected the clip and to my relief, it was full. Outside, I waited.

Joe’s face stayed with me as I paced back and forth, back and forth on the small porch. I couldn’t take my eyes off the well — the slightest sound made me jump. My imagination saw him coming for me, slowly climbing up the sides. What was taking them so long? Relief mixed with dread when at long last I heard the engine and the van drove into the yard. They walked toward me.

“Where’s Joe?” asked Larry.

“Uh, he’s inside. He — he’ll be right out. Did everything go okay?” My husband didn’t respond. I was looking at him, trying to send a message with my mind. After all our years together we sometimes knew each other’s thoughts. Larry walked around until he was directly behind Bill. As much as I concentrated on my husband, I couldn’t stop myself from looking at Larry. The smile started slowly, until it spread across his entire face. “Well I’ll be damned! You got him, didn’t you?”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about. He’s inside, I told you. He — if you don’t believe me, why don’t you go look?”

“That’s what you want, ain’t it — so you two can take off. Well, if he’s inside, I got a feelin’ he ain’t in too good a shape. So I might’s well settle his account for him. Bill old boy, I’ll take whatever you got in your pocket. You can be on your way and I’ll settle up with Joe for you.”

“I’m not giving … ” Bill stumbled forward as Larry twisted his arm behind his back. “Hey — what’re you doing? Let go of me!”

Joe’s nasty laugh came out of Larry’s mouth. “Stand still now — I could break your arm real easy. Now, little lady, why don’t you just pull the money out of old Bill’s pocket — okay? No games, now — unless you think you can get me, too. Bill here won’t be much help with a broken arm. And if you hurry, I’ll let you go on down the road a piece before I discover what you did to Joe. I told him he’d get outsmarted someday.”

My husband’s face was ashen and I knew there was no choice. I went to him and put my hand in his right pocket. “It’s not in this pocket. Must be in the other one.”

“Hurry it up!” snapped Larry. I reached in and pulled out a wad of bills. Larry’s greedy eyes lit up and he grabbed the money. He turned away and began to count it. I stepped close to my husband, slipped my hand in my pocket and pulled out the gun.

“Give that back!”

Larry looked at me, then at the gun in my hand and began to laugh. “Where’d you get the toy gun?” he said. “Probably don’t even work. Kinda shaky, ain’t ya? You better give that to me.” He walked toward me. The gun went off. He stopped, a look of surprise on his face. His hand went to his side. A red stain was spreading through his shirt, above his belt. His face darkened, surprise quickly changing to anger. Bill took the gun and held it on him.

“Okay, we’re leaving. Get over by the house and stay there until we drive out. Wait — hand me my money.” It was still clutched in Larry’s hand. He looked down at it, then back at Bill.

“Like hell!” He yanked the knife from his belt and lunged. Bill pulled the trigger. This time Larry staggered backwards, blood oozing from a wound in his shoulder. He was on the ground, face contorted. The voice that came at us was low, menacing.

“You think you’re gonna drive away and it’s over. Think again. I know where you live.”

Dead air hung among the three of us — the words, a physical thing. My husband finally spoke, still holding Larry’s stare. “Sue, we can’t leave him like this.”

“Let’s just get out of here. He won’t … ” He looked at me with the oddest expression and this time, his meaning was clear. “Oh my God! No — you can’t … ”

“Do you want to look over your shoulder the rest of your life? Or — maybe he’ll go to the police and then we’ll be in jail — one dead, the other wounded.” He stopped, his eyes searching my face.

“Bill! Please! Let’s get … ”

“Where’s Joe? Is he dead, Sue?” There was a lump in my throat that seemed to grow as I stood there. My words whispered out.

“He’s — the well — b-but — he fell — I didn’t … ”

“Doesn’t matter,” he said. “All that will matter is what Larry decides to do. If he goes to the police, it’ll be his word against ours — and he has two bullet holes in him. If he doesn’t go to the police … ”

“The bank!” I said. “They saw him with you. Just tell them … ”

“He didn’t come in with me, he didn’t have to. You were back here, he knew I wouldn’t do anything to put you in further jeopardy.”

“But — they’ll be found!”

“No one will look for a long time. I’ll take my chances.”

“Bill, I can’t … ”

“There is no other choice. Go sit in the car.”

“What are you g-going … ”

“Sue, get in the car! Go on!”

As I waited, I kept seeing Larry’s eyes — full of rage — eyes that would stay with me. There was another shot. A few minutes went by before Bill sat next to me in the car. We drove away. Silence hung heavy between us. His breathing was rapid, his knuckles white, gripping the wheel. The lines in his face seemed a little deeper — like the lines in a face staring out of a recent photograph — his father’s photograph.

Our freedom was a trap. There was no escape. What would our future hold?


A shadow blotted the lone shaft of sunlight that reached into the dark hole. He hunched back into a hollow the water had made before the well ran dry. Larry’s body fell at his feet, landing on top of their last hapless victim. He waited. Time passed. When he felt it was safe, he put his back to the bricks, feet flat against the opposite side and slowly started ‘walking’ up the wall. Today he would rest, plan — tomorrow, he would head south. Florida should be nice this time of year.
