In the summer of 1955, I remember this because I was in Grade 4, the Paulescu family arrived in our town on foot. Mr. and Mrs. Paulescu and their sons Eric and Pavel. They had only the clothes on their backs and a battered suitcase held together with frayed rope. They lived at the edge of town, next to the factories, where other displaced people also had emergency housing. Home was a one room transportable wooden hut with a rusted stove pipe. The ground between the rows of huts never seemed to dry. The mud stuck to their shoes. They were barracks people. They had done nothing to deserve the stigma that unkind people attached to them. Pavel did not want to be a barracks boy. Not then and not today either.

Mr. Paulescu worked as a glazier and window installer. He was tall, lanky with long arms and large hands. He always smelled of putty. Mrs. Paulescu was a mousy woman with frizzy graying hair. I never heard her speak. Eric had his father’s build. Pavel was short and stocky, had little square teeth, reddish brownish hair and a mean temper.

Pavel enrolled in Grade 6, so he was older than I by at least two years and half a head shorter. Pavel’s shoes were polished when he stepped out of the hut but he had muddy shoes at school. Wiping his shoes in long grass made it worse. People looked down at him for his dirty shoes. He found a neat solution. He wore gum boots in the mud and put on his good shoes when he came to a made road. By then people knew where he lived. There was only one way to rid himself of the mud.

Pavel was always first to arrive at school and last to leave. He was forever hanging around and made notes in a cheap exercise book. He knew a few German words but was a quick learner. The Paulescus were Bulgars, so I heard. I didn’t know what that meant. But I knew that, even if true, calling them gypsies was unkind. I knew that from my mother. According to her, gypsies were not the liars, thieves and pickpockets others made them out to be. Gypsies do not steal children and eat fat dogs. Gypsies wear leather boots and colourful shirts. They dance, play accordions and violins and cook spicy food.

I punched a kid on the side of the head for calling Pavel a gypsy. Pavel punched me in the head! He didn’t need me to defend him. So I punched him in the head for punching me in the head which made us even and good friends. No one after that called Pavel a gypsy. I asked him home often after school. I lost contact with Pavel when I entered high school and because Pavel continued with his primary school education. My family and I moved to a large city in 1958 and emigrated to Australia in 1962.

Pavel entered our lives again eleven years later in 1969. He had obtained, in a round-about way, my mother’s address in Melbourne. She had a few letters from him and the occasional postcard from far away places. Pavel was on his way to Australia via South America. He arrived in Sydney and gave her an address.

I was holidaying by car in Queensland and called at Pavel’s address in North Sydney on the way home. He and two other Germans shared an airy flat right on the foreshore at McMahons Point. We celebrated the 1971 New Year in the garden at the water’s edge. We woke the next day covered in lipstick and mascara tattoos. These crazy Tongan neighbours of his had left their mark on us. It took quite some time to wash off lipstick in various shades. Pavel liked wild company, music, food and drink and drink.

He invited me to a BBQ at Lavender Bay where I met his girlfriend Frances and her parents, the Cassars from Malta. Frances was 24. She had a gorgeous figure, raven black hair, beautiful teeth and a smile that lit up faces. She was a qualified accountant but that didn't bother Pavel who was a storeman in a tile warehouse. She was infatuated with him. Her family loved Pavel. It was plain to see what would happen. But not all was rosy in the garden.

Pavel drank. Pavel drank a lot. He was paralytic when I drove him home and held his head over the toilet bowl. He drank to oblivion the following night and the night after that. He was legless and I cleaned him up and the toilet after he spewed his guts out. He remembered nothing the next day and went to work as usual.

His flat mates worried about him too. They had seen it coming. Pavel was in love. Frances was deeply in love and all he had to do was ask. France’s parents were well to do folk. They had welcomed him readily into the fold. They had plans. But Pavel also had plans and that meant walking. He had to leave and he wanted to stay. He had set a departure date and now felt the pressure. The closer he came to departing, the more he drank. Stay or go? He resolved the conflict every night by drinking.

He wanted to be in Munich for the 1972 Olympic Games and see his mother. He had not seen her since 1958 and wanted to be there to celebrate her 50th birthday. Pavel could have flown to Munich. Mr. Cassar offered to pay the fare. No. Pavel was going to do what he had done since age 16. Walk. He was going to walk to Munich. Not directly, obviously. He would walk the South American continent’s Pacific coast from south to north over the next eighteen months. He would walk until the money ran out. Then work, save and walk on.

Pavel left Sydney by air for Singapore where a cargo ship was waiting for him. Frances followed two days later. The evening before her departure, she told me Pavel’s story. Well, as much as she knew.

She had noticed a backpacker at the North Sydney Railway Station. He had a street map and what looked like an address book. People were much too busy to help. Frances gave him directions to Blues Point Road and mentioned that it was quite a walk. The backpacker smiled and replied quite casually that he was used to walking. His last walk had been from Mexico to Tierra del Fuego. He thanked her and walked.

Frances was intrigued and looked at an old school atlas. She borrowed books from the library. Her father was curious about her sudden interest in South American countries and cities. Frances told him about the backpacker. He was curious too. He had never heard of anyone who had walked that far. Not at least for 900 years. He told Frances about the Knights of Malta and the Order of Crusaders. A Cassar ancestor had been on a crusade to the Holy Land, so it was written somewhere.

Frances just couldn’t get the long distance traveler out of her mind. She looked for him every day at the station. She hoped to run into him somewhere. Somewhere turned out to be a church at Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve. Pavel was pleased to see her. Thus started a friendship that blossomed into romance. But Pavel was reluctant to meet the parents. He was unwilling to talk about his past. Frances was patient and gradually pieced together Pavel’s story.

After another fight with his father, Pavel walked out on his 16th birthday. He had learnt from his mother that the Paulescus were not his real parents. Pavel was a foundling from a village somewhere in Bulgaria. The Paulescus had taken him in. He had gypsy blood for sure.

Pavel decided on wandering. He applied for a refugee passport. He worked on building sites in Germany, saved his money and walked to France, then Spain until the money ran out, worked and saved. He arrived by freighter in Halifax, Nova Scotia in 1964 and walked the North American Atlantic coast for three years. He worked illegally, most often on construction sites, saved and walked until his money ran out. But he never lost contact with the woman he still called mother. He wrote to her every week. She replied care of some Post Office or other. All she had to do was to put a postage stamp on an envelope addressed to him.

Pavel was in Mexico City for the 1968 Olympic Games. He walked, worked and saved and walked further south as far as he could. He then worked his passage on a coastal freighter from Punta Arenas, at the bottom of South America, to Santiago in Chile and from there to Australia. He arrived in Sydney in December 1969 aboard a cargo ship from Chile, in time to celebrate Christmas with friends.

I don’t know what happened in Singapore. Did Pavel change his mind? Or did Frances return from Singapore alone and broken hearted? Knowing Pavel and his wandering ways, I think he walked.

I really want Pavel and Frances to be together. I have them walk the Pacific Coast up to Alaska and then to Montreal for the 1976 Olympic Games. After that, they are in Eastern Europe, maybe Bulgaria? I can see them working: Pavel as a labourer on building sites, Frances as waitress perhaps, saving their money so that they can walk until the money runs out and make Moscow in 1980. Frances would wish him Happy 46th Birthday in Seoul.

I want Frances to write to her mother every week and include an envelope addressed Poste Restante at the Vladivostok Post Office in Siberia. I would love to have a letter from them telling me about the northern lights or overwintering in sunny Morocco. Above all, I want them to be happy and Pavel to find a place he wants to call home. Maybe he doesn’t need a fixed abode? Is it the gypsy blood? Will he still be on the road when he turns 70 at the London Olympic Games? When he really ought to be playing with his grandchildren? I fervently wish Frances to be there with him. I want to believe that their story has a happy ending. He will forever be my school chum, the one with the polished shoes. I have a feeling though, that no matter what, he will always be Pavel, the walker.
