The creature's fangs glistened in the artificial light, flashing as it lunged. Nathan narrowly ducked aside, barely conscious of the action. Slavering phlegm splashed his arm, though, and he gagged faintly as its foetid breath drifted in its wake. Had he been less overwhelmed, or had its acidity been stronger, he may have felt the burning on his arm, but the immediate fear dominated his thoughts, and he wouldn’t notice the scars till later. What attention his body did pay to pain focused on where the beast had slashed, almost gouged, his chest, a fatal wound had he reacted an instant slower.

He scrambled away, keeping it in view, but trying to find a clear path to the entrance. Stumbling over one of its victims, he fell against the wall, catching himself before he went down completely. He started to regain his feet, but stopped in a crouch as its head spun, freezing him briefly in its gaze. Steeling himself, he started to move slowly, but the creature emitted a low growl which forced him to reconsider, and he shifted his weight back against the wall.

The abomination was like nothing he'd ever heard of, ever imagined. Its features appeared vaguely lupine, more like a dog than a wolf, but it loomed larger than a lion, its features hideously warped, mutated. Its body bulged unnaturally in places, the flesh giving off the occasional, horrific, bubbling movement, as new bones searched for a comfortable position. Its eyes held no trace of white, only a blood red almost hypnotic in its intensity.

Despair began to take hold as he realised that even if he got to the entrance, he had little chance of outrunning it. The doors to this burial chamber had taken a handful of men to open, so no way could he move one alone, certainly not in the, at most, seconds before the creature caught him. From the screams which had recently echoed through the tunnels, it couldn't be alone, but Nathan had no way of telling where the rest of the pack was. The structure was a virtual labyrinth of corridors connecting numerous chambers, and he couldn’t be certain he could find his way out quickly. Not that outside would necessarily offer sanctuary. The vehicles were a short distance from the entrance, and there was no way he'd outmanoeuvre the creature in the open. Too many factors seemed arrayed against him.

As his mind flailed hopelessly for an escape, he saw the creature tense, and did likewise in preparation. Then its gaze darted to the entrance, its stance shifting to match, and Nathan became aware of movement there. Risking a glance, he saw a man standing in the middle of the doorway, a sawn-off double barrelled shotgun aimed casually at the creature.

With short cut dark hair, and stubble streaked with grey, his vaguely military clothing showed splashes of dark mud out of place in the desert setting. Nathan didn’t recognise him as a member of their group, and he hadn’t thought anyone else had been nearby. As his gaze returned to the creature, Nathan offered the stranger a warning, surprising himself with his voice's calmness. “They tried shooting it earlier, but didn’t slow it down. It must be adrenalin keeping it going. You might be able to knock it down a few seconds, and we could try to get the door shut on it…”

“This’ll stop it,” said the stranger, not taking his steely eyes off his prey. The creature seemed to take this as a challenge, and launched itself at the new target. The shotgun exploded, jarring it out of its flight, and sent it twisting to the floor.

The thing lay unmoving, and after a few seconds Nathan dragged his gaze from its disturbing, broken mass, to regard the stranger. The man, reloading, returned the appraising stare, his gaze loitering a moment over the slash on Nathan’s chest, before his deep set, wary eyes fixed Nathan’s. After a moment, Nathan's senses began to return, and he moved towards the stranger. “Thanks. How did you…”

“Later. Come on.” The man turned and walked out the door. Nathan scrambled to follow, avoiding the bodies and not letting his eyes linger on them. The stranger waited outside the doorway, looking cautiously down the corridors leading from the room. His nerves on edge, Nathan started to introduce himself, to be cut off with a curt glare. “Quiet ‘til I say we’re clear,” said the stranger, his voice focused and steely.

Nathan nodded and followed his saviour along the left-hand corridor. They stopped at irregular intervals, listening attentively, although Nathan could hear little over his own thunderous heartbeat.

After long, tense, minutes, the man stopped short of a corner, standing with his back against the far wall, and set his shotgun. Nathan moved against the wall behind him, far enough back as to not crowd him. The seconds stretched agonizingly, as absolute silence enveloped them, even deafening his heartbeats, only to be shattered when another creature burst around the corner with an unearthly shriek. The stranger's gun responded with its own roar, slamming the thing back into the wall a split-second later.

The stranger started a slow lope around the corner, and Nathan hurried to keep up. He didn’t stop to listen, as at least two more creatures howled elsewhere in the complex. Whether ahead or behind, he couldn't tell. The stranger didn’t break stride as another emerged from a side passage up ahead. Visible only in silhouette from a lamp further along, its unnatural proportions were unmistakable. The creature charged, its shriek drawing replies. It got within ten feet of them before it, too, fell to the stranger, who leapt its lifeless body, again without breaking stride, forcing Nathan to keep up.

They drew to a halt at the side passage from which the beast had emerged. Reloading the gun, the stranger seemed to consider his course, before setting off down a passage. Slowing as they neared the next intersection, the stranger came to a stop a short distance before, eyeing the side passages. Silence reigned for a long moment, before a slight scratching came from one of the passageways. The stranger stepped back, Nathan trying to quietly back out of his way. Finding a comfortable position, he again set his shotgun.

The creature burst from the passageway, but avoided the worst of the shotgun’s blast by diving down the opposite passage. Pellets caught its rear, however, eliciting an unnatural chilling screech of agony, and shot back into the corridor almost immediately, heading for its tormentor. A second blast from the shotgun ended its agony, but a sound from the corridor behind them broke the silence of its fall. Nathan turned to see another one bounding towards them. The stranger moved past him, discarding the shotgun he wouldn’t have time to reload, and drew a dully gleaming sword from beneath his pack. He set himself in the middle of the corridor as the creature barrelled towards them, only darting aside as the beast leapt, cleaving the sword through the its throat. The sword didn’t quite make it through, wrenched from his hand by the weight of the, now lifeless, monstrosity. Drawing a pistol, he searched for further threats.

Satisfied no such dangers seemed near, the stranger re-holstered his pistol, retrieving the shotgun and calmly reloading. Done, he placed it near the corpse of the beast with his sword. Fixing his boot carefully on an unbloodied patch, he yanked the blade free, a sad spurt of lumpy, blackened gunk, vainly clinging to the weapon. Removing a cloth from his pack, he proceeded to wipe away the unnatural mess.

“Marcus Carter,” said the man, not glancing up from his work. His voice remained gruff, but without the earlier tension.

His words jolted Nathan from the state of shock he hadn’t even realised he’d slipped into. “Sorry?” He blinked his incomprehension.

“My name is Marcus Carter.”

Nathan stared for a moment before the words sank in. “Nathan Cornell. Pleased to meet you.” He’d been about to reflexively offer his hand, but thought better of it. “I didn’t know there was anyone else in the area. We were expecting to be fairly isolated.”

“You probably were. I came for them.” He nodded at the creatures.

“You hunt them?” Nathan realised his tone held more incredulity than he’d intended, but Marcus didn’t seemed to take note.

“Yes.” He didn’t seem inclined to expand.

“What did you shoot them with? Our bullets didn’t have much effect.”

“Silver. Like this.” He inclined the tip of the sword towards Nathan, as he turned it round to carefully inspect his work. Satisfied, he slid it into its scabbard, tossing the cloth atop of the beast.

The sword’s hold on his gaze broken, Nathan blinked in confusion. “Silver? What are they, werewolves?”

Marcus didn’t bother looking around. “Doubt it, though I’ve never met any werewolves.” Picking up the shotgun, he moved along the corridor, his posture easier than before, but the set of his head betraying a casual wariness.

Nathan followed, his nerves keeping his voice to a whisper. “So what are they then?”

“I doubt there’s a proper, scientific, name for them. Most people don’t survive seeing their kind.”

“Are there many of them?”

“They crop up from time to time.” He glanced at the walls, his tone distracted.

“You’re not going to give me a full answer are you?”

“Maybe later.” Returning his attention to the corridor, Marcus moved on.

Nathan followed quietly, as Marcus, seeming to have a destination, led them to the central burial chamber. Nathan blanched at the sight of the bodies there. He just about recognised what remained of Professor Taylor, discarded against one of the walls, and forced himself to look at the other faces, some of which were barely recognizable as human, with distinguishable marks erased. He didn’t find the one he dreaded seeing.

“Who is it?” Marcus didn’t turn from his examination of the burial statuary arranged on top of a nearby dais.

“Who’s who?” said Nathan, staring dumbly.

Turning to face him, Marcus' hard eyes finally evinced a sliver of sympathy. “Whose body is it you’re looking for?”

Nathan held his gaze a moment. “Annabel. My cousin. I don’t know where she’d have been when they attacked, but she isn’t…” His eyes made an ill-advised sweep of the chamber. “She isn’t among the bodies here, so I suppose there’s a chance…” He let the thought drift, looking hopefully at Marcus.

“I doubt it,” said Marcus, his tone softer, but final. "How many of you were there?"

"Twenty-six," said Nathan, numbly.

Marcus turned back to his work. “I'll check when I deal with the bodies, but… you were the only one I found alive, and it's luck I got to you in time. I’m sorry.”

Nathan stood staring at his back. If they hadn't found her body, then there must still be a chance she could have survived, mustn't there. Nathan shook his head, trying to convince himself. “Maybe…”

“No.” Marcus met his gaze, his eyes holding an unflinching certainty Nathan couldn’t avoid.

Leaning against the nearest wall, the ache from his chest reminded him of the wound he needed to tend. But as the numbing shock returned, he couldn’t focus his mind on what to do.

Marcus moved a couple of the small, primitive statues, and Nathan felt a slight, involuntary, relaxing of his body, as though a weight had been lifted. He caught Marcus' curious glance at his reaction.

After a moment, the man resumed his task. “You felt that?”

“Yes,” said Nathan. “What was it?”

Lifting the statues from the dais with care, Marcus placed them precisely on the floor. “Shutting the tear the infection came through.” Calmly taking up his shotgun, he aimed at the statues, firing twice, destroying both.

Nathan, caught off-guard, flinched back from the shards. When it seemed safe he risked a look, and found Marcus examining the walls. “What tear? What infection? You mean those non-werewolves?”

“I mean the thing that changed them from regular stray dogs, or whatever they were, into those abominations. This place was built around a weak point between dimensions, a tear in the fabric separating realities. Sometimes things get through into this reality. Usually they don’t have anything we’d recognise as a physical body, so they need to latch onto one already here, to be able to enter this world.” He shot a reluctant glare at Nathan, who'd been about to ask a question. “Don’t ask me too much. I don’t really understand most of it myself. I’m just passing along what I was told.”

“Told by whom?” Nathan couldn’t help himself.

Marcus continued his survey, his voice growing detached as he concentrated. “Old African shaman called Dzivaguru. Not a witch, though. She didn’t like that. She met me soon after I stumbled into this… stuff, and tried to explain to me how these things work, and how to fight the infections. But she wasn’t an especially good teacher, and I’m not especially good at being taught. Apart from the fighting bits.”

“And where is she now?”

“Dead. Some cultist freaks, who apparently want these things coming here, killed her. We’ve clashes a few times since, but I still don’t know much about them.”

“What did the decorations have to do with it? How could you close this tear just by moving them?”

“That’ll be part of the ‘don’t know’ stuff. Apparently some of the old shamans, witch doctors, or whatever they were called by their particular culture, knew something about these other dimensions, but didn’t consider them hostile. Some believed they held a happy afterlife, and that souls buried on the tears would have an easier transition, so they’d build these big tombs for the rich on top of the sites. Other areas had similar ‘incursions’ to what we’ve experienced, so they became bad areas, to be avoided. Some knew secrets to sealing these gateways. Through some mumbo-jumbo or other they’d set something, usually some loose decorations, which could be set to hold the gate open or closed, as needed. They’re usually left closed.”

“So was this? Did we open it, or was it already open? And if some are permanently open why hasn't it been noticed before?”

Marcus shrugged, not turning. “They’re not constantly coming through every portal.”

Nathan stared at the remnants on the floor, his mind grasping for anything to avoid recent events. “So it’s some kind of non-localised phenomena linked to the placement of the… switches I suppose we could call them.”

Completing his inspection of the room, Marcus turned to Nathan. “You a student or something?” His tone gained focus he ran his eyes appraisingly over Nathan.

“No.” Nathan resisted moving under the inspection. “Not for a couple of years, anyway.”

“What'd you study?”

“Stuff.”

“Stuff, huh.” He offered a sceptical glance. “And this stuff brought you here?”

“My cousin, Annabel, got me the job.” Bringing her to mind, he looked at the doorway, considering searching for her. Or what remained of her, if Marcus had been right. “The expedition had been organised by one of her teachers, I didn’t have a job, and they had trouble getting local help for the donkey work.”

“Why. Don’t pay well?”

Nathan nodded. “Limited budget. The Tunguska Group funding it seems a bit tight. Plus, of the few expeditions in the area, we’re about the only one without a film crew.” He peeled the remains of his shirt from the wound, wincing as parts dug in by the claws came free.

“You have a first aid kit?” Marcus studied the wound.

“There’s some outside, in the camp.”

“We’d better have a look at patching you up, before I clean up here.” Collecting his stuff, Marcus moved towards the door.

Nathan turned after him, but made no immediate move to follow. “I need to find Annabel.” His voice lowered, cracking slightly as he added, “even if it’s just her body.”

Marcus nodded. “There were some bodies out by the camp. If she isn’t among those, we can have a look in here when you’re patched up.”

Nodding, Nathan numbly followed, his body aching now adrenaline no longer suppressed his pain. His mind grasped for a distraction. “You mentioned closing the gate?”

Marcus didn't slow or turn as he replied. “Manipulating the objects in a certain way closes the gateway, or stops anything coming through, anyway, but moving them wrong or just destroying them can leave the gate permanently accessible. As the old ways get forgotten this happened in places, so there are some permanent hotspots, fortunately it's been rare for anything to come through them. Until recently.”

“What happened to change it?”

“Don’t know.”

They walked in silence a while, before Nathan spoke again. “And you really believe all this?”

Marcus shrugged. “Doesn’t matter. I sense when the entities pass through from their dimensions, travel to their locations, and eliminate them before they spread.”

Nathan looked dubiously at Marcus' back. “You ‘sense’ them?”

“Yes.” His tone became more defensive, uncomfortable with the subject. “I can sense the life around me, and I can usually tell if any of it has been… infected,” he seemed to use the word grudgingly, “by creatures from outside this dimension, anywhere in the world.”

“How… Where did you…” Nathan groped for a question, before being abruptly cut off.

“I don’t know where the ability came from. It began a couple of years ago, before my first encounter with this otherworldly stuff. I mostly ignored it, and it wasn’t overwhelming so I managed to convince myself I’d taken too many hits to the head. But after learning about this stuff, I… accepted it, I suppose.” His tone became harsher, more aggressive. "Why all the questions?"

Nathan considered this a moment. "Shock, maybe. Perhaps it just distracts my mind from things I'm not ready to accept." He hesitated a moment. "You said you can sense life around you?"

Marcus sighed. "It's not precise, but I can detect if there's something in the general area."

"And you can't sense any life around us?"

"Nothing human. Or infected."

"So when you said that Annabel is probably…"

"If she was still in the camp, then no, I'm afraid not."

Nathan, numbness and dread engulfing him as they neared the entrance, went quiet.

As soon as they emerged from the structure, Nathan saw the slaughter at the camp, and numbly followed Marcus towards it, the smell drifting to meet them. He soon found what remained of Annabel, and kept his eyes focussed on her untouched head, aware of the state of the rest of her body, but unwilling to acknowledge it. Marcus, having located the medical pack, led him unresisting from the scene, sitting him on the opposite side of a truck from the carnage.

Nathan paid little attention to Marcus' investigation of the wound, even when the man started talking. “There’re bits of cloth stuck in the wound. I’ll have to clean them out, and it’s probably best if I give you an anaesthetic first, okay?”

A vague, automatic, nod was Nathan's only response, and he remained staring blankly ahead until he felt the needle. This focused his attention for a moment, but as he looked up in surprise at Marcus, the sedative began to take effect and he had the vague awareness of his head being lowered gently to the ground.