'Another ale, Janet, if you please!'

Brogan watched as the pretty barmaid acknowledged his request with a raised hand and then snaked her way around the crowded tables. He settled back into his chair and gulped the last of his ale, minding not to swallow the dregs at the bottom.

His three drinking friends were far gone. Each sat slumped in their seats, their eyes struggling to focus as they muttered incoherently to one another. Brogan smirked, relishing the prospects of emptying the men of their pockets at closing time. There were always benefits to staying sober when those around you proceeded to get drunk. Afterwards, he would maybe seek out Lemon Lil, one of the cleaner prostitutes in the area. Ale always made him frisky, and he had enough coins in his pocket going spare. Janet appeared at the table with his drink. He thanked her by pinching her bottom as she turned to leave. She looked back and glared at him but he just laughed before taking a sip of the warm beer, grimacing at the taste.

The door to the tavern had been used all evening with people coming and going. Brogan always watched to see who was coming in for a drink, that he could scam or rob afterwards. The two men who appeared this time, though, caused Brogan to slouch down in his seat, hoping they wouldn't see him in amongst all the other clientele.Thankfully, the men hadn't spotted him, and were making their way across to the counter. Brogan seized his chance to slip out of the tavern, unnoticed. As luck would have it, he had only reached the door when someone gripped him by the shoulders and spun him around.

'Well, if it's not the little Irishman.'

'Hullo, Spices,' Brogan said, attempting a smile. 'What a pleasure it is to see you in this fine establishment.'

'Got our money, Irishman?' Spices' breath was as foul as his scabbed face.

'Well, it all depends on your definition of your, really,' Brogan began, but he was shoved against the wall before he could finish. Another man stepped forward, a man worse than Spices. He was dressed in fancier clothes and carried an air of natural authority.

'That's enough, Spices. You're scaring our friend, here.'

Spices knocked Brogan against the wall again before moving aside.

'Now, Brogan, what Spices here was trying to do was to ascertain whether or not you have, on your person, sufficient coinage to repay our good selves.' Thomas Forres was well-known to the city's criminal underworld, and to any poor soul who'd had the misfortune of dealing with the man. He grinned at Brogan, displaying a devastation of black and broken teeth.

'You know how it is, Mr. Forres,' Brogan said. 'Money is scarce at the moment.'

'But your father's one of the best shoemakers in the city, and respectable people always need shoes. Surely he has some wealth.'

'Well, you'd think that but… ' his voice trailed off at the unimpressed look Thomas was giving him. 'I promise I'll get the money to you by the end of the week.'

'Ah, but promises from you are like promises of love from a whore. Worthless.'

'I swear on my life, you'll have the money by the Sabbath.'

Thomas regarded him, then sighed. He leaned in closer, his breath almost as bad as Spices'. 'That's not good enough. I want my money by this evening or Spices here'll have to teach you a lesson. You remember last time, don't you? Those bruises took weeks to heal. You're a handsome lad. We don't want to have to mess up that face of yours and scare off the ladies.'

'This evening it is, then,' Brogan agreed.

Thomas patted him on the shoulder then walked back across to the counter where Janet was already pouring his drink. Spices remained where he was, his eyes burrowing into Brogan's.

'Well, Spices my friend,' Brogan said, composing himself again, his hand back on the door handle. 'I may have to get beaten up to look ugly but you don't seem to have that problem, do you?' He paused, watching as the brute took a moment to work it out. As soon as the eyes narrowed, Brogan swung open the door and raced out, his hysterical laughter more from relief than amusement.

The relief only lasted a moment. Brogan felt the man behind him and took off, sprinting down the street towards Canongate, the ale sloshing about in his belly as he ran. But he couldn't stop now; Spices wasn't the fastest person in the world, but he was the most persistent.

The busy city streets gave him an instant to catch his breath while hidden within the crowd. He knew, though, that Spices would still be searching for him. A well-dressed gentleman was trying to cross the traffic of people and Brogan, still peering over his shoulder trying to spot his follower, knocked into him. 'Oh, I do apologise sir,' he said. The man's face soured and he walked on, muttering to himself.

Brogan continued on, laughing at the gall he had to go pickpocketing when someone was after him Before he pocketed his swag, he glanced down at the items he'd just taken from the gentleman. That fob-watch looked well-kept, it would fetch a bob or two at the pawn shop. The few coins would pay for his next couple of ales. The handkerchief, however, had a suspicious stain on it, so was tossed to the ground. He slipped the rest into his pocket.

Deciding that he couldn't really go walking around the city for the rest of the day, Brogan quickened his pace and turned off into a side street. Up ahead stood a familiar bottle-green door. He ran a hand through his thick brown hair and smoothed down his clothing. Maybe the encounter with Lemon Lil would be earlier than anticipated. Before he could reach the door however, it opened and a woman charged out, almost bowling him over. Brogan caught sight of her face as she passed. It was pretty enough but he didn't think he'd had the pleasure before.

And then a memory leapfrogged in and out his mind. He turned round and watched the woman striding along the side street. 'Lady Darcy?' he called out.

The woman halted and faced him. 'Yes?'

Breaking out into a big smile, Brogan walked back along to her. 'It's me. Brogan. We met when I was a boy.'

Her memory was obviously good. As soon as he'd introduced himself, she had matched his grin in surprise. 'Pipsqueak?'

'Yes,' he laughed. 'I've grown up somewhat, but you -' he paused and took in the sight. 'I don't think you've changed one little bit. You still look exactly how I remember you.' He frowned, realising he meant every word.

'Good skin,' she said, hazel eyes twinkling.

Another memory popped into his head, one of a manor house and a man wearing red. He was going to ask about it but remembered she had been quite angry with him at the time. This time, she seemed happier to see him and he wanted it to stay that way. 'Still having trouble knowing what year it is?' he asked, cheekily.

'A bit,' she said, making a face. 'Just the ten years too early, instead of twenty.'

'What?'

'Never mind.'

'So what are you doing at the brothel?' he asked, indicating the green door she had just come out of. 'Looking for work?' he asked with a raise of the eyebrow.

'Huh, I'd slap you if I could be bothered. No, I was looking for someone but yet again I've got the wrong time.

'You're a very strange woman,' he observed, mildly. 'Did anyone ever tell you that?'

Darcy laughed. 'All the time. So, how old are you now then? You were just a little thing yesterday.'

'Oh, I think it was a bit longer than that. I'm twenty-one years of age, now,' he laughed, standing to his full height.

'Wish I was twenty-one again,' she remarked. 'Well, Brogan. It was nice seeing you again but I have to be on my way.'

Brogan reached out a hand and held her arm. 'Wait a moment.'

'What is it?' she said.

'I'd like to speak with you. I meet this strange-sounding woman when I was a little boy. Now, ten years later, she's back and hasn't changed one little bit.'

She gave him a haughty look, and put her hands on her hips. 'Strange-sounding? You never heard of Australia?'

'Is that where you're from?' asked Brogan, happy that one mystery had been answered. 'I thought you were English. So, you live with all the prisoners, then?'

She gave him a confused look. 'Pris-' She stopped, then slapped her forehead. 'Ah, of course. No, I don't live with prisoners, mate. I moved to London years ago.' Bemusement spread across her face. 'Or years in the future, if you like.'

'You're still an odd lady,' he replied, in jest.

'And you're still cute as a button,' she said in response, ruffling his hair just as she did all those years ago. 'But I really need to get going.' She turned and headed back along the side street.Sighing with regret, he watched her walk away.

Just as Darcy neared the end of the street, someone passed her, heading this way. Spices. Brogan turned and walked quickly to the green door, before Spices could see him. It was a plan that had failed before it had begun.

'Brogan!' The man barked. Brogan ignored him and rapped his knuckles on the door, wishing someone would answer in the next two seconds. He knew Spices had been banned from the establishment for inappropriate conduct and the owner wouldn't allow him to cross the threshold. He glanced back at Spices. Darcy had made a u-turn and was walking behind him. Now Brogan had a dilemma on his hands: He could enter the brothel and leave Darcy in the hands of the ruffian, or he could act like a gentleman and make sure she stayed safe.

Mind made up, he turned to face Spices. 'You're ever the persistant fellow, Spices.'

The man laughed, low and guttural. 'Did you think you could go in there and let the whores keep you from me?'

'Something like that.'

'I believe you're too late for that.'

'It would appear so,' shrugged Brogan. He looked beyond Spices. 'Darcy, you said you were leaving. Just go.'

'Huh?' Spices looked behind him and saw Darcy. 'Never seen you before, woman. You belong to this place?' He ran a hand over his mouth. 'Wonder how much you're being rented out for.'

Darcy stood with folded arms. 'Why does everyone think I'm a prostitute?' she muttered, with a shake of the head.

'Who are you, then?'

'Oh don't mind me,' she said, with a wave of the hand. 'I'm not supposed to interfere, just observe. Go about your business.'

Spices frowned, then glanced at Brogan before returning his attention to Darcy. 'And what would you say, miss, if I told you I was going to beat up this man?'

'I'd say it's a bit pathetic, to be honest. It's more intelligent to sort out your problem by talking it through instead of using violence. But that's just my opinion.'

He looked at her and then started to laugh. Darcy joined in and, after a few hesitating seconds, so did Brogan. 'And,' Spices went on, still jovial. ' what would you say if I told you that after I'd beaten him up, I'd take you into an alleyway and sort you out?' The leer in his voice made Brogan want to knock him out. The implication of what Spices said didn't seem to upset Darcy in the least.

'Well, I'd say if you want your balls to remain connected to your body, then I'd strongly advise against that,' she said, conversationally.

In response, Spices reached inside his long black overcoat and pulled out a long piece of rusty, copper piping. One end was jagged, as though it had been snapped off a longer piece. 'You think I'd listen to advise from a woman?' He asked. Brogan would have told Darcy to run, were it not for the fact that she'd started laughing at the makeshift weapon.

'Oh you know what the best part of my job is?' Darcy asked Spices, playfully rocking from side to side like a little girl. 'That I don't have to worry about insignificant little meatheads like you. There used to be days when I'd get nervous around violent little cretins, but with the training I've had, all I can say to you is -' she paused. Taking a step back, both hands disappeared beneath the collar of her own coat before bringing out a magnificent-looking sword. ' - how fast can you run?'
