"Whatta we need to do?" Douglas asked shivering, blowing smoke
out with each breath.
"Can you pick up one of those legs of lamb from the floor over there?"
John asked, grasping a cleaver just out of sight of Douglas.

John dreamt about the deli and grinding meat for meatloaf from beef,
pork and Douglas...ready for sale. You sure know how to pick 'em. John
smiled every day and slept great each night.

"Caroline!" Geoff yelled her name in a mixture of surprise and uncontrolled
delight. "Oh, thank God! Caroline! You're here!" He swept her up
and kissed her and hugged her tightly, so tightly that he felt he would
never let go. "I thought I was going mad. I thought you'd gone."
Caroline laughed. "Don't be silly. Where would I go?"

Douglas was five minutes late, but he apologized before John could
say anything. He had dealt with Ralph's late arrivals for weeks. John
just smiled and said it was all right. He told Douglas that he should just
punch in and start cleaning the glass on the display case. Douglas did as
he was told and another day went by. John went home, wearing his
smile dimples showing he sure could pick 'em.

"Thanks. See ya tomorrow sir." Douglas waved and smiled.
John dreamt about pushing beef, pork, and Ralph through the grinder
one at a time before wrapping each in its own white paper gently taped
closed and ready for sale. Another full night's rest. John whistled the
whole two blocks to open up his deli, with a smile that caused both of his
dimples to sink in until they reached their deepest depth.

The bell above the door rang just as John was taking payment from
Mrs. Cumberland. In walked a young man in blue jeans, a nice green
polo, and small round glasses with thick lenses which rested heavily
across his thin face and magnified his blue eyes. After an exchange of
goodbyes with Mrs. Cumberland that was much to long for John's comfort,
he greeted the young man, "How can I help ya?"

He rubbed his temples and sighed. "I'm sorry," he said. "I'm tired,
that's all. I want to go home."
"I know. But just humor me for now, eh? Talk me through the accident
one more time. Please."

John opened up right on time, and Mrs. Cumberland was waiting with
a smile across her rosy round face. Her heels clanked loudly with each
step she took. John watched her large hips shake back and forth with
each click and wondered how those thin calves and skinny plastic heels
held up under all that ass.

"Caroline?" he called again.
Why wasn't she here to greet him?  Surely she hadn't gone out. Not today.
Then he noticed the blue vase that stood on the hall table. Caroline
liked to keep flowers in the vase, because, she said, flowers made a nice
impression on visitors. But the flowers had died. He guessed that they
had once been daffodils, although they were too badly shriveled to tell
for certain.

On the bedside table was a bottle of Caroline's favorite perfume.
He took the bottle and carefully unscrewed the top. The scent had
weakened with age, but the first whiff reminded him so overwhelmingly
of Caroline that he felt he could touch her - all he had to do was close his
eyes, think about her hard enough, and she would be there.

On his departure, Hillie had pressed her business card into his hand.
"My number's on there," she told him. "Call me, all right? I want you to
promise."
"I'm sorry," Geoff said. "I don't see the point."
"You've suffered a shock. You can't be expected to cope at home on
your own."
Geoff had simply smiled at her. "I won't be on my own," he said. "I
keep telling you. Caroline will look after me."

Douglas was a no-show. After the second day of Douglas' absence,
John re-hung the HELP WANTED sign. Greg Simmons came in the very
next day; he was interviewed and hired.

"Yeah, sure...fill this out and then we'll talk," John handed the bigeyed
man an application.
Douglas Reeves filled out the front and back of the standard office
supply store sold application and sat through the standardized interview
John used to learn about prospective employees. Not that any of this
mattered. John was tired of running the place alone six days a week. All John really needed to know was if the kid could work Saturdays. He
had to work Saturdays. They were the busiest. Douglas said yes; he'd
work every Saturday, "no problem."

But in an empty house, surrounded by evidence of Caroline's long absence, 
Hillie's words plagued him, and he was forced to accept that his
mind might be capable of the cruelest of tricks.  He felt desperately, hopelessly alone.

A chill wind blew along the street. Geoff paid the taxi driver his fare
then turned and faced the house. It wasn't much of a house - a terraced
two-up, two-down with a patch of garden at the front and a walled yard
at the back - but to Geoff it was the most welcome sight in the world. He
was home. Back where he belonged.

"Sure," Douglas bent down exposing the back of his head to John.
With a quick strike, John brought the cleaver down with enough force
to split Douglas's head. One more whack to ensure death and John
awoke, sticking to the sheets. The clock said it was two a.m. He had
slept and dreamt for hours. John fell back to sleep until his alarm woke him again.

Douglas was five minutes late, but he apologized before John could
say anything. He had dealt with Ralph's late arrivals for weeks. John
just smiled and said it was all right. He told Douglas that he should just
punch in and start cleaning the glass on the display case. Douglas did as
he was told and another day went by. John went home, wearing his
smile dimples showing he sure could pick 'em.

John awoke, sweat soaking the bed and the sheet clinging to his exposed
skin. He fought it, tossing about the bed trying to rid himself of
any covering, unsure if he was alone or if he had truly awakened from
his nightmare.

Behind the vase, leaning against the wall, was all the junk mail that
Geoff had abandoned on the floor - picked up and neatly stacked, exactly where Caroline used to deposit the morning's mail.  Geoff's heart began to beat a little  faster.  He went into the kitchen, hardly daring to imagine what he might find in case it failed to be true.  He needn't have worried.

John collapsed onto the bed and fell fast asleep just moments after
closing his eyes. He dreamt he was at the deli with Douglas. It was midday
and Douglas asked about a movie. John said it was great, and then
asked if he could help him in the freezer. John closed the door behind
them as they entered the freezer; it closed with a slurp of suction as it sealed itself shut.

But in an empty house, surrounded by evidence of Caroline's long absence, Hillie's words plagued him, and he was forced to accept that his mind might be capable of  the cruelest of tricks.  He felt desperately, hopelessly alone.

He walked up the front path, unlocked the door and stepped into the
hall. He accidentally kicked a pile of mail, sending envelopes skidding
across the floor. Junk mail, from what he could tell. He left the envelopes where they lay.

John did not dream about the deli. He had nightmares of Douglas falling
onto swords of knights on horseback, and woke several times
throughout the night sweating and breathing heavily.

Disturbed by the sight, Geoff made his way into the kitchen.
As he stepped through the door, the cold tap dripped into the sink,
making a sudden dull splat against the stainless steel. He twisted the tap firmly off, then gazed around the room in mounting disbelief. Nothing was right. Nothing was the way it should be. The kitchen was supposed to be neat and scrupulously clean - Caroline took pains to keep it that way - but dirty plates had been stacked in a rickety heap, the floor was greasy, actually tacky underfoot, and there were stains and coffee-mug rings on the surfaces.

Behind the vase, leaning against the wall, was all the junk mail that
Geoff had abandoned on the floor - picked up and neatly stacked, exactly where Caroline used to deposit the morning's mail.  Geoff's heart began to beat a  little faster.  He went into the kitchen, hardly daring to imagine what he might find in case it failed to be true.  He needn't have worried.

"My memory of the crash is perfectly clear - as far as it goes."
Hillie paused. She wasn't insensitive. She was aware that Geoff was
weary of her visits and she was anxious not to alienate him. "Geoff," she said, "I know how frustrating it must be, having to talk about the accident over and over, but you've suffered a concussion and that's not easily shrugged off. The mind can often take a while to recover from -" "There's nothing wrong with my mind," Geoff insisted, a little too loudly.

The morning came too quick. John felt exhausted, but once Douglas
showed up, his spirits picked up and he felt reinvigorated. Douglas
learned quickly, and he had a natural way with the customers. He's no
Ralph yet, but he could be with time, John thought as he watched Douglas slicing ham for Ms. Jenkins.

That night John dreamt he was at the deli grinding the last of Ralph into plain white paper wrapped, ready for sale. He awoke before the
alarm for the first time in months. John made it to the shop with a smaller smile and feeling a little under the weather.

"It was late," he began. "Half-eleven or so, and it had just started to
snow. We came to this hump-back bridge. We saw lights coming the other
way, but there was room - plenty of room for vehicles to pass - so we
carried on. Only there were two cars, not one. Idiots, the pair of them - racing each other side by side. We suddenly had nowhere to go. So we slammed on the brakes. Skidded. And the rest, as they say, is history. We glanced off the nearest car and hit the bridge wall. After the impact, I don't remember a thing until I woke up here. But I'm told that's normal.  It doesn't make me mentally deficient."

Behind the vase, leaning against the wall, was all the junk mail that
Geoff had abandoned on the floor - picked up and neatly stacked, exactly where Caroline used to deposit the morning's mail.  Geoff's heart began to beat a  little faster.  He went into the kitchen, hardly daring to imagine what he might find in case it failed to be true.  He needn't have worried.



