"Don't you dare lay this on me!" she screamed back at him, and sank to
her knees, the fight gone. "She bit you? Did you let her?"  He nodded, the shame showing in the tremble of his lips, the set of his shoulders.
"Where is she?"

Screaming against the pain in his abdomen, Brian tore off the skeleton
ask. "Help!" he yelled but his voice sounded weak. Could he be 
dying so quickly? The morons on 1000 Ways to Die died almost 
immediately. Something penetrated them, vital organs ruptured, and death took them off.

The demon transformed into a 40 foot beautiful naked woman, "Well I
was lonely." She pouted. "It's a new religion and us demons aren't yet
populous, besides, its what you wanted." She bent down, picked up the screaming sergeant by his foot and held it in front of Markus.

"How do you know?" Ralph asked.
"Because monsters are just like bullies. Remember that kid who used
to push you around on the playground?"
"Marjon," Ralph said.
"Right. And I told you to push him back and what happened?"
"He stopped pushing me."

Well, seems I found one place to escape the chaos of the city, he thought. He readied himself, cracked his neck, and took a deep breath, but someone was in here with him. Someone was standing to his right, a
tall, dark figure and it was reaching toward him now and But that was stupid. Just a trick of the eyes. It was Mom's wedding dress all sealed beneath layers of plastic. He was the only one in here. No such thing as monsters, after all.

The door vibrated against the fragile latch. Brian flicked on the 
flashlight and pounded it against the door. He wouldn't look behind him  because he didn't want to feel stupid, didn't want to know he was really freaking out right now and not simply playing a prank. But that wasn't the full truth - he didn't shine the light behind him because he didn't want to see the monster face-to-face, didn't want to notice how the light reflected in the saliva pooling in the corners of the thing's fleshy lips. He hit the door harder and thought the latch must have been stronger than he'd suspected. Maybe Dad had strapped on a combination lock or wedged a door stop in the bottom for good measure.

"His mother should have realized just what she had brought into this
world when he was vomited out and then slaughtered him to save the
world the misery he was going to bring to everyone's life."

"I have an idea," Macker said. By the inflections of his tones the others knew that some incongruity of the situation had aroused Macker's sense of humor. "Why don't we give the creature an entirely new body? We could replace the flesh and viscera, as well as the cartilaginous structure, with our own type substance. It would probably be an indestructible being as far as its own world is concerned. And it would be as powerful as their mightiest machines. We'd leave behind us a superman that could change the course of this world's history. You could do it, couldn't you, Toolls?"

After replacing his helmet and scanning the landscape for any sign of
life, he declared this desolate spot to be as empty of life as the last desolate spot and moved further away from the Roman encampment.
"Hello."

Slowly, Ralph nodded and Brian stood up. The flashlight slid from
Ralph's hands. Brian smiled. "There's no such thing as monsters 
anyway," he said.  When he turned around, Nina was standing in the doorway. She had on her jacket that only extended halfway down her ribcage. There was a pause in which Brian tried to find the right thing to say but just as he was about to speak - My brother has nightmares, but he's okay now - Ralph erupted in tears.

"Shut up," he said. Fruit Loops dribbled out between his lips.
Brian grabbed Ralph's shoulder and squeezed it until Ralph cried out
and then he released. "Don't tell me to shut up. I'm your big brother
and I'm trying to tell you how it is. I'm not going to blow smoke up
your butt like Mom and Dad. If you can trust anyone in this world, it's
me. I'm your blood. I'm looking out for you."

"None that wouldn't take a retooling of the converter," Toolls said. "I'm not certain that I could do it, and even if I could, we don't have the time to spare. I could give it stronger muscles in the arm, but that may throw off the metabolism of the whole body. If it did, the result would be fatal. I'd hate to chance it."

"That's what I mean," Macker said. "Our policy in the past has been to
avoid tampering, only because of the fear of bringing harm. If we created a super being among them, to act as a controlling and harmonizing force, we'd hasten their development by thousands of years. We'd be granting them the greatest possible boon!"

Dad got up and started toward the closet. He stopped when he saw
Brian in the doorway. Father and son, both dressed in sweatpants and
undershirts. In Dad's exhausted face, Brian saw a kin both in family 
resemblance and growing impatience with the little nighttime screamer.
"Monsters again, huh?" Brian said casually.

His legion was encamped near a small village and while most of the
men were either getting their heads down or feasting on roast boar, he
had been given the job of scouting the territory by his new commander.
Markus shivered inside his inadequate clothing, watching the ice cold
rain drip off his helmet onto his nose. He was here because; somehow his commander had found out that his uncle was an influential governor in the senate.

There was Mom's hanging clothes mixed with the few dress shirts she
had purchased for Ralph to wear on holidays and heaped on the floor
was a motley mix of stuffed animals and assorted toys. Stuff his little
brother should have given up to local shelters years ago.

Dad's stare shut Brian's mouth but, let's be honest, it was a stupid
idea. The kid needed to get over his fears not be told there actually were monsters living in his closet.

Brian could almost let himself fall back to sleep but now he was thinking about Nina and her soft skin and intoxicating smell. He couldn't exactly jerk off in here with the whole family a few feet away, so he squashed the lust into anger and got out of bed. Mom and Dad were sitting on the bed on either side of Ralph. His face was swollen, his eyes wet, but the crying had stopped. Dark purplish bruises encircled both eyes. What lie had Ralph told them? The monster hurt me? It was only a matter of time before the parentals said those damn words: Brian, we need to have a talk.

"I'm still here, darling," he said, as if sensing her thoughts. His voice rasped like he had a throat full of sandpaper. He stood, silent as an owl, and dropped the mirror. "I think you should leave. And call the doctor." "I've thought a lot in the night," she said, moving towards him. "I can forgive you for what you did. 'til death do us part? I meant it. I know you meant it. I don't want you to go to the Farm alone. I couldn't live with myself. And I can't live without you. I know that now."

"Well, now isn't that a surprise. You have turned tail and scampered
away. Everybody else has." Markus stayed silent, it seemed to be the best resolution. "So then Marcus. You think that you have had a hard life do you?"

Remm took three steps forward. The native's eyes were unable to follow
his change of position. Its gaze wandered about the room, until again its settled on Remm's waiting figure. "Can you imagine anything being so slow," Remm said, "and still..." Suddenly Macker interrupted. "Something is wrong. It is trying to get up, but it can't." The native was registering signs of distress, kicking its legs and twisting its body into new positions of contortion.	

"It will be necessary for us to leave in exactly ten minutes," Remm reminded them. "Our next stopping place - the red star - will reach its
nearest conjunction with this planet by the time we meet it out in space." "Then we will have time to do nothing more for him before we go," Macker said. "But as far as I can see we've forgotten nothing, have we, Toolls?" "Nothing," Toolls answered. "No - we forgot nothing."

He said nothing for the moment, and she saw the regret in his eyes,
the shake in his hands as he struggled with the answer.
"They took her to the Farm. A week ago. She managed to avoid tests
somehow, but they caught up with her. She had already changed." He
offered nothing further.

He pushed her away suddenly. "Please! Please, I want this. Don't go alone. Don't do it. You don't have to do it," she cried, falling backwards onto the bed. Her hair fell across her throat and she pushed it aside, stroking the flesh there with her fingernails, and the sound was like the whispering of lovers to his ears.

Then Ralph had started screaming and Brian had tried to ignore it but
Nina had freaked. "Sounds like someone's killing him," she said. He
told her not to worry about it and went back to her breasts, which were
tightly constricted beneath her top, and slid his hand along her soft inner thigh. The screams had gone on, however, and Nina snapped her legs shut. "What is wrong with him?" she asked.

"How did it happen? When...?"
He said nothing for a moment and then slowly held up his hand to
her, showing her his palm. "There's something you should know." Nestling in the soft webbing between thumb and finger were two tiny
red wounds, each no bigger than the head of a nail. "It was a girl from work," he said. "I'm so sorry, it only happened the one time. She was...lonely and...oh, hell I don't know. You've been so distant recently!" he blurted.

Orville Pollnow had no such food available. His body - no larger than
before - had an Earth mass of one hundred and eighty thousand pounds.
One hundred and eighty thousand pounds - the weight of twelve hundred
average sized men - of fiercely burning, intense virility. Even continuous eating - of his own world's food - could not supply the demands of that body.  Twenty-four hours after the aliens left, Pollnow was dead - of starvation.

It didn't take him long to reach the conclusion that Britain was a complete shit hole. The empire should have left this barbarian infested island to its own devices; he couldn't understand why anyone would want to live here.

"I have an idea," Macker said. By the inflections of his tones the others knew that some incongruity of the situation had aroused Macker's sense of humor. "Why don't we give the creature an entirely new body? We could replace the flesh and viscera, as well as the cartilaginous structure, with our own type substance. It would probably be an indestructible being as far as its own world is concerned. And it would be as powerful as their mightiest machines. We'd leave behind us a superman that could change the course of this world's history. You could do it, couldn't you, Toolls?"

Then it repeated the motion with its left leg; then again its right. All the while evidencing great exertion and concentration of effort. "It is making what it considers a mad dash for freedom," Remm said. "Probably at the ultimate speed of which it is capable. That would be ridiculous except that it's normal for its own environment. This is definitely a slow-motion world."


