A horrible smell like rotting meat smacks John in the face as he walks
across the pitted concrete floor. Jan stares through fright-filled eyes as her husband crosses the room on tiptoe. John places a hand against the wall across from the car to find it is padded. Why? He wonders why anyone would pad walls in a repair shop. He thinks that the padding might be like what music studios used to keep out unwanted sounds.  Why?, he thinks again. Holy crap, it's for keeping sounds in, sounds that someone doesn't want the outside world to hear.


"Look, chum," the bearded thug grated. "You're evidently a stranger
here. Let me give you a tip. If you get caught using a gun, or even having one on you, the police'll slap you in jail with an automatic sentence of ten years. An Earthman couldn't stay alive in one of their so-called jails for a year.

And finally, on top of the crown, towards the front, there was a large
divot I had asked the lab to make to accommodate a previously constructed partial denture which hooked onto the tooth.  The crown belonged to a rather distasteful man named Simon Forrest.  And there had been an occasion or two, after seeing his wife, when I wished I could have killed him myself.

A thin-faced odd-job man opened the rope gate and they shuffled
through. The group must have walked fifty paces, with the bearded man
well up in front and Johnson somewhere in the middle, before Johnson's
stomach sent him its first warning of unrest. Most of those ahead had
stopped and Johnson threaded his way carefully past them.  Another twenty-five steps and he left the others behind. All except the bearded man. He neither paused nor looked back.

And now Simon Forrest was dead, and I couldn't help but to wonder
who had helped Meredith with the gruesome chore. What had finally
pushed her over the edge. Whether Simon had been alive or dead when
those thick, rotating blades of the wood chipper had torn the man apart.  The next morning, I told my receptionist, Jillian, to give Meredith Forrest a call. I needed to see her last thing that night. At eight, right after my last patient. Jillian asked me what she should tell her. I said, "Tell her it's about a crown."

"Sorry I couldn't be more helpful," I said, handing the crown back to
the Rizzo.  I wondered if either of them noticed my hand shaking slightly.  Simon Forrest was a greasy, weasel of a man, never without a scowl on his face and a threatening gleam in his eye. By the way he looked at me, at the receptionist, at the hygienists and assistants, you would think he was an inmate forced into my office by the county for mandatory treatment.  But, as far as I could tell, he came voluntarily. Lord knows I couldn't force anyone to come, and if by some chance of fate I could choose my patient base, Simon would 
not be on the list.

He never ceased to wonder about this faculty he had acquired for
sensing the presence of danger. There was no doubt in his mind that it
had come into active function through the influence of his environment.
But it must have been an intrinsic part of him even before that, waiting to be activated.  A moment before he had localized the source of his uneasiness - an Earthman, following perhaps fifty paces behind him. The one quick glance Johnson had allowed himself told him his follower was above average in height, and lean - with the wiry, muscular command of himself that marked him as a man capable of well-coordinated action.

Marlock wasn't much of a planet. Its one claim to fame was its widely
advertised Nature's Moebius Strip. For eighteen months of the
year - nine months of sub-zero cold, and nine months of sultry, sanddriven summer - the only outsiders to visit the planet came to buy its one export, the fur of the desert ox. But during the two months of fall and two months of spring the tourists poured in to gape at the Strip.  Idly, for the hundredth time, Johnson let his gaze run over the tourists lining up for their "thrill" journey out onto the Strip. Most of them wouldn't go far; they only wanted to be able to say they'd been on it.  They would build up some pretty exciting stories about it by the time they returned home.

"Wow, you guys look tired," The big guy in overalls says as he hooks
the rental car to his tow truck. He spits his tobacco as he pulls the GPS from the car. That good-for-nothing rental company won't be paying
him a visit any time soon.  John and Jan's bodies are driven out to an isolated salvage yard to join the many others in a field of crushed vehicles.

And now I was suddenly glad I did. I could possibly help discover the
identity of a corpse and send a bad guy to jail. I felt like an extra on CSI.  The thought that one of my patients was possibly dead didn't even occur to me at the moment, detached as I was. Instead, a child-like exuberance fell over me. Of course, the chance of actually recognizing the crown and being able to identify who it belonged to were a long shot, but I didn't allow that to kill the momentary excitement.

Jan looks out at John wide-eyed as he taps on the glass motioning to
her to lower the window. Come on, come on repeats like a metronome in
his head. Jan lets down the window, "Everything okay sweetheart?" she
asks of the confused looking man at the door.

Johnson turned to look back, and felt his breakfast fighting to come up.  From his perspective, the ground and the spectators watching him had swung to a position almost perpendicular to him. He felt that he was about to slide off into space. A wave of vertigo swept over him, his legs folded and he fell to the ground-sicker than he had ever been before in his life. Now he knew why the man ahead never looked back.

Johnson nodded. "Of course."  
"That," Hawkes continued, "is where the Company's Secret Service
comes in. It never lets up on the effort it will make to solve a robbery and bring the perpetrators to justice. And it never quits, once it begins an investigation.  That policy has proven very effective in discouraging thievery.

"Its shot," the overly-stained man says as he wipes his hands with a
rag dirtier then his grimy hands.  "What's that?" John asks as he steps around to stand away from the traffic.

"Come and warm yourself," the clerk said, leading him over to a hot
water radiator.  Johnson made no protest. He let the heat penetrate until it scorched the skin on his back. Only after the coldness left his body and was replaced by a drowsy inertia did his attention return to the clerk.

Guilt laid on thick is a specialty of John's Aunt Danielle. She sits there droning on about how he had missed his uncle's last birthday and hadn't called when she went to the emergency room last spring. John smiles and promises he'll call at least once a week, and he'll be sure to come back for a visit as soon as he can. His aunt kisses his cheek saying, "You don't have to be such a stranger. Be a good boy."

Johnson turned to look back, and felt his breakfast fighting to come up.  From his perspective, the ground and the spectators watching him had swung to a position almost perpendicular to him. He felt that he was about to slide off into space. A wave of vertigo swept over him, his legs folded and he fell to the ground-sicker than he had ever been before in his life. Now he knew why the man ahead never looked back.

John pops the trunk. He searches the empty space, pulling the carpet
up to find a tiny temporary spare but not one tool. Damn, this rental company sucks. If we survive this insanity, I'll sue the shit out of the bastards that rented me this piece of shit car, John thinks as he closes the trunk.

I knew where they were heading now.  "Now," Rizzo continued, "I'm sure the combined number of crowns fabricated by dental professionals and their labs every year in the US is in the tens of thousands. And I'm sure they all probably start looking anonymous after a time, especially out of the mouth. But this one...once we cleaned 
the cement out, I saw what looked like some letters drilled on the inside. Looks like the letters WS. So we started interviewing all dentists with these initials in a fifty mile radius, hoping someone would recognize their work.. Now, I know that this crown may not even be from a doctor who lives around here. People move and their crowns go with them. And even if it were one of yours, there's no guarantee you'll remember who it belongs to. But it's all we have at this point. 
The lab estimates that the crown can be up to twenty years old, and I'm sure you've glued in many of these in over twenty years."

He was certain that he had never lost consciousness. The ground
came up to meet him, and, with a last effort, he twisted his right
shoulder inward. His cheek slid along the dirt and he lay on his side
without strength. His legs pushed forward in a steady jerking movement
as he fought to quiet his quivering muscles.

The manager was an old man. Old and black, with the deep blackness
only an Earth-born Negro possesses. But his eyes retained
their youthful alertness.  "Come in and sit down," he told Johnson
 as he looked up and saw him standing in the doorway.

On the second day, John is sure that he hears someone banging around
outside. His hands are no more than bloody stubs from beating on the
door for hours trying to get someone's attention. No answer ever comes
and the days go by. Their minds begin to slide away on the fourth day.
The concept of time disappears along with the headlights.

Rizzo dropped the crown into my palm. I slipped my dental loupes,
which allowed for increased magnification, over my eyes, and peered
down at the piece of metal and porcelain in my hands. I turned it over in my fingers, looked at the internal metal surface first, and discovered my signature markings scratched inside. It was indeed one of mine. I turned it over again and looked at the external features of the prosthetic.  I recognized it instantly.

"Sorry I couldn't be more helpful," I said, handing the crown back to
the Rizzo.  I wondered if either of them noticed my hand shaking slightly.  Simon Forrest was a greasy, weasel of a man, never without a scowl on his face and a threatening gleam in his eye. By the way he looked at me, at the receptionist, at the hygienists and assistants, you would think he was an inmate forced into my office by the county for mandatory treatment.  But, as far as I could tell, he came voluntarily. Lord knows I couldn't force anyone to come, and if by some chance of fate I could choose my patient base, Simon would not be on the list.

John sets the cruise control five miles over the posted speed limit and
hums along with the radio. He wonders about his uncle's health. Saul
hadn't looked good, and Aunt Danielle had said he'd been to the hospital twice since his last visit. The guy wasn't getting any younger, but fifty-eight isn't that old with all the medical advancements at our disposal.

The young couple had gone far enough out now so that they were in
the first bend of the Strip's twisting dip. Already their bodies were leaning sharply, as the mysterious gravity of the Strip held them perpendicular with their pathway. From where he sat Johnson could read nausea on their faces.

I continued to turn the crown over in my fingers, pretending to examine
it. But what I was doing was trying to decide a course of action.
Hundreds of thoughts and pictures flashed through my skull and when
things finally settled in my mind, I handed the crown back to Rizzo. I
offered a gentle shake of my head as I pulled my loupes from my head.
"Its not mine," I said. "The letters you think you see inside, well, they could be WS. Or SM. Or even just random scratches made while roughening it up before cementation. Hell, a guy at the lab could have done that."

She caught his eye the first time he saw her. It was his third year in
college, a time when things had finally begun to come together for a
young John Forester. He had gotten over his ex-girlfriend Susan, and
was passing all his classes. One day he saw Jan leaning against a post
outside his apartment building. Jan swayed, almost twirling, as she
hung onto the dirty old post. He was breathless watching her smiling
with her shiny dark hair blowing freely behind her as she swung back
and forth, arms looped around the bird dropping-covered wooden pole.

The sun was hot and soon Johnson's clothing was marked with large
soiled patches of sweat. Now and then a light breeze blew across the
stands from the native section and at each breath his nostrils crinkled in protest at the acrid smell.

Carl Rizzo dumped the contents of the envelope he was holding into a
gloved hand (nicely tanned, black, leather gloves, not exam gloves) and
showed it to me. It was a single dental crown. "This was the only thing
that we pulled whole from the trash bag where John Doe was found.
Some of the porcelain is chipped off, but the metal substructure is
undamaged."





