As the tube hurtled its weary way through the darkness, I took a long, hard look at the reflection of a man, in the window, opposite. He was nearing thirty, pale with a lanky sort of build and a thick mop of dark hair that looked a fortnight overdue for a good cut. He wore a Marks and Spencer's suit which he didn't fill out very well and on his lap was a battered, black briefcase. He wore spectacles, with round wire frames like the ones you used to get on the National Health, forty years ago, only now they were fashionable. The tatty briefcase lent him an air of bruised sophistication. What was inside? Business papers? An earth shattering thesis? Or perhaps more likely it was a sham and his case was empty but for a copy of New Scientist and a Tupperware carton containing his hastily prepared lunch. He looked sour, as if his way of life did nothing to sustain his spirit. I made an effort to smile but the reflection didn't respond, and that was odd because the reflection was my own.

It was the summer of 1987, early on a Monday morning and the compartment was crammed with bodies, all making their way to work. A girl shifted her weight and hid the view I'd had of myself. She was tall and shapely, a model, I guessed from the designer clothes case slung over her shoulder. Her bleached blonde hair was tied back tightly and held with a comb, exposing every contour of her unblemished face. It was one of those classical faces, a Greek sculpture, with the pale neon light casting soft shadows over its seemingly boneless structure. She glanced at me once or twice as she hung from the rail. I could have given up my seat for her, but there were dozens of other blokes sitting down as well as me, and you had to be careful these days. I'd offered my seat once before to a lone woman, and I swear she'd got the wrong idea. She'd thought - I don't know - that I was about to start coming on to her or something. She'd refused the seat with a disdainful curl of her lip, and then turned her back on me as if I'd suggested something filthy. I hadn't been living in the City for long and when one's trying to adjust to a strange environment, one tends to be conditioned by experiences like that. I was paranoid of course; I think we all were.

There must have been forty of us crammed inside that compartment but not one of us was touching; we were all safe, crouching inside our precious body space - forty pairs of eyes shying from contact. And we were silent, each of us tuned in to the miserable whine of the machine that bore us, each of us afraid to speak for fear of being overheard, as if we all had to watch out, to be on our guard. It was eight forty. At eight forty two, the machine would stop and we'd all file out like robots, like well oiled components moving to take up our positions in the great clockwork machinery of the City - millions of us, tiny gears in a Newtonian Universe, all meshing together, yet somehow carefully lubricated so we could function without actually touching. I'd been in London for five years after a prematurely aborted career in physics. My degree had gained me rather a poor salary and a dead end research post in a laboratory I gather they've now turned into bicycle shed. I'd moved to the City as so many have done before me, throughout the long history of these isles: poor, ragged Dick Whittingtons in search of golden pavements, only to find a kind of sickly grey.

After a check on the washing that he’d thrown into the washing machine Brian made his way to the first floor noting the fact that his cousin had repainted the entire house magnolia and laid giant utilitarian light-green office-style carpet tiles throughout the entire house, barring the first floor. However, as a concession to Brian’s visit, he had laid some carpet tiles in the small bedroom on the first floor. This act was double edged; it said ‘use this bedroom’ and ‘don’t disturb mine.’ Brian placed his toothbrush and shaver in the giant first floor bathroom that still housed an absolute monstrosity of a bath. An hour late he’d finished assembling his camp bed in the freshly carpeted single bedroom and placed his clothes in the built-in wardrobe. He unrolled his sleeping bag and stood back. He checked his watch, went downstairs to cook himself a couple of boiled eggs and clean out the inside of the microwave.

Later he took a large sketch-pad out of his car and sat down to recreate the face that had haunted him since the supermarket. He sketched it once; twice; a third time and then a fourth before stopping and studying his work. It was no good. He could picture her in his mind in almost perfect proportion, but on the sketchbook pages the face looked more like a living skull with a pair of heinous pouting lips. He closed his eyes and concentrated before trying a fifth time, again to no avail. This was always his problem; he knew what he wanted, but it all came out wrong. He thought about another attempt, but put the pad away. He knew that attempting to draw that face was a diversionary activity. Really he should write a couple of letters before he went to bed, but didn’t know where to start. He’d been working in one place with more or less one job ever since he’d left university and was wondering if it was time for a change. However the very notion of change made him uneasy and breathless. He liked matters to be in careful order and his life to be on what he thought of as a stable footing. Change of career would skew all that and he hated the thought of the unknowns it would create in his life. He decided on the coward’s way out and decided to tackle the letters tomorrow. Instead he tuned the radio to a classical music station, picked up a book and began to read. Now his holiday had really begun.

He saw her a second time at the 10:45 service at St Mark’s church, which was the church on the other side of the graveyard from where he was staying. The church, a standard mediaeval Saxon church with a square tower and oak pews, was way over half full by the time he arrived at about five minutes before the beginning of the service. It was then he noticed her; this time not because of her face, but because of her isolation. She was sitting in the side chapel right against the far corner. No one else was sitting in her pew and the rest of the side chapel was empty. A casual glance up and down the aisle told Brian that this was not an accident, she had been deliberately isolated; pushed to one side, sent to the margins, kept apart. The service itself was quite palatable; a mixture of old and new hymns that blended together and a decent twenty-minute sermon that gave enough food to think on and enough loose ends to chew over. However, his mind was occupied by the thin woman, her isolation and her time-ravaged face.

I had dreams, of course, dreams beyond Effham Brothers. I still had a passion for the natural world, for science, for the unknown. I dreamed of changing things with a fantastic discovery, some fundamental law that explained everything. In the meantime, I worked and the years passed. I remember that morning well. I'd been at a hotel in Harpenden for a few days. Now I had to sort out my notes and put them down in the proper format. It had been an easy job. One of the breakfast waitresses had been a bit surly when I'd asked her to change my scrambled egg, but that hardly seemed worth mentioning. The only other thing I could think of was the used condom I'd discovered, floating in the toilet bowl in my room. It had steadfastly refused to be flushed and I suppose I should have called room service but I was too embarrassed in case they'd thought it was mine. Anyway, I didn't know how to word it right in my report so I decided to forget it. This is trivia - forgive me! My story began at half past ten that morning when I received an internal phone call from a man called Eric Bowker. "Scott? Scott Mathews? Come up and see me will you? Good Man! About eleven? I’ve got a bit of a job for you - bye for now… ."

Bowker was the head of my department, though I'd never actually met him before. He lived on the fourth floor where it was all hushed corridors and expensive carpets and where the likes of me didn't visit very often. My immediate supervisor was a man called O'Grady. I reported to him and he, in turn, reported to Bowker, but O'Grady was on leave for a few days and that's why, I supposed, Eric Bowker had spoken directly to me. I just about had time for a coffee so I searched my pockets for change and headed for the vending machine. I was beaten to it by a busty young woman wearing a pencil skirt and a semi-see-through blouse. This was Tina, which was a coincidence because she was Bowker's secretary. A year earlier I'd asked her out, twice, and she'd turned me down both times. She had a reputation for being a bit of a raver, and I guessed she didn't think I was her type. She was always pleasant when we met though, very gently spoken and sweet, which made it all the worse because a man can't help lusting after what he thinks he can't have, and so it was with Tina. Partly to cover my embarrassment, I asked her if she knew what Bowker wanted to see me about; I was always wary when someone said they had a job for me but wouldn't tell me what it was. It made you think it might be the sort of thing you'd want to duck if you had fair warning of it.

She hadn't heard anything. "Still seeing Jenny?" she asked. I said I was, trying to shrug it off casually, which was interesting, and I asked her about some bloke whose name I struggled to recall. "Geoff," she reminded me. "No, that was over ages ago." I looked at her and imagined she was longing for things to be different between us, longing for me to ask her out yet again. She shook her great bush of tightly permed hair and smiled, heavy lip gloss glistening in the dim light - how I miss those glamorous eighties styles! She said she'd see me around and then, carefully holding the cup, she headed for the stairs. I watched her bottom as she walked away and shamelessly undressed her with my eyes. Bowker was short and fat, with unruly white hair and rickety spectacles. He reminded me of a professor who'd once lectured me, back at university. He was Scottish and there was a rumour he'd left his other job under a bit of a cloud. He was tending a small display of tropical plants in his window when I walked in.

"Ah, Scott," he said with a faint wheeze as he straightened himself up. "Garden at all?" He squirted some vapour over one of the plants with an atomiser. He had big, clumsy hands and his face was kind, which was unusual for a senior manager. "No garden," I replied. I'd expected a better office for a man in his position. If it hadn't been for the window plants, the place would've been very drab indeed. His swivel chair must've been twenty years old and it squeaked when he sat down. His desk was cheap and badly scraped, too. It was obvious Bowker was not well liked at Effham Brothers. "No garden!" he exclaimed. "Every one should have a garden. Live in a flat then, do you?"

I replied that I did and he grimaced. "Like it much?" I said it was okay even though it was crap, and at the same time marvelled at how out of touch these people were. I could barely afford the flat; you had to be a millionaire to own a garden in London! He shuffled through some papers on his desk. Then he pulled an ash tray towards him and lit a cigar. As he puffed away, I noticed a large brown envelope with my name on it. "Well, Scott, about this job," he said. "It’s another hotel, I'm afraid - a bit different this time though. We don't own it yet, so we need to approach it cautiously." He'd been approached by the Acquisitions Department, he said, and asked to make a report on this place they were interested in. Normally they would have sent one of their own people but it was all a bit sudden and they'd no one to spare. They had to have the report by the end of the month so they could get the go ahead for the purchase at the next meeting.

Now, to be honest, I was ready for a break. I’d been spending rather a lot of time away recently and I was falling behind with the paperwork. I needed time to catch up, and there were others who hadn’t been out in months. "Surely, this would be better handled by one of the more senior guys, Mr Bowker." "I’d like you to handle it, Scott. You're one of the best I've got. Don't think your reports just end up in a filing cabinet: I do read them. I've had my eye on you. I like your style." He didn't know me from Adam, but he was in a tight spot and O'Grady must've said he could spare me. "Well, if you’re sure. Where is this place?" "Craigaline," he replied. "North West Scotland."

I'd never heard of it, but the mention of Scotland conjured up an image of sluicing rain and wet socks - still it would make a change from the usual round of the Home Counties, I thought. His instructions sounded straight forward; all I had to do was turn up at the hotel and make notes on its location, accessibility, standards of service and so on - the usual routine. Then I was to approach the owner, but discretely. "The owner already knows we're interested?" I said. "Doesn't that defeat the whole object? He'll have his staff on their toes. They'll see me coming a mile off!" "We're not concerned with the staff here, Scott; if we take it over they'll all get the chop anyway. We’ll want our own people in from the ground up."

That made sense, even though the brutality of it stunned me for a moment and all my questions dried up. He handed me the envelope. "There's a couple of thousand in there. If you need any more, call me and I'll have it mailed to you, but I think it should be plenty." Cash wasn't unusual; I never used company credit for obvious reasons and not everyone had their own Visa-card back then. The only other thing he told me was that the owner’s name was Macraven, that I should approach him without the knowledge of the other staff, that I needn’t be concerned too much with details, and that once I’d established contact, it would be Macraven who'd do most of the talking. Bowker had already made a reservation for me at the hotel and I was to leave the following morning. We shook hands and he wished me luck. During the lunch hour, I browsed through an atlas in W. H. Smiths, and eventually found Craigaline. Then I picked out the right Ordnance Survey map for more detail. It was remote, nearly twenty miles from any other habitation and there wasn't what I would have called a town on the map at all. It appeared as a cluster of dots by a single track road that led to nowhere but an abrupt dead end.

It looked like a mountainous place, judging from the contours, with a couple of peaks over three thousand feet, one of them called Beinn Mhor, which, like Craigaline I'd never heard of. Back in the office, I began to have my first doubts. Effham Hotels were all close to areas of commerce, in order to take advantage of the travelling business man. There was more to be made from that market than from one that catered purely for the tourist who, as a rule, wasn't prepared to be ripped off for quite so much. All the busy oil fields were away to the east and the cities of Glasgow and Edinburgh were way, way south. Craigaline, in the far north west, seemed a lonely spot. Apart from a few grouse shooters, mountaineers and fly-fishermen, I couldn't think of anyone who'd actually want to go there. I rang Bowker’s office thinking to confirm the place name but Tina told me he’d gone home for the rest of the day and she didn’t know anything about it. There was nothing I could do then, and no one I could check with. I had to assume Bowker knew what he was doing, which of course he did, but not for any of the reasons I'd initially supposed.

I spent the rest of the afternoon sorting out my travel arrangements and I wrote a note for O'Grady, explaining when I expected to be back. I left it with his secretary, Sharon, a podgy young lady with cherub like features. She promised to give him the note on Wednesday, when he came back, and then she started to pry into the state of my relations with Jenny. While preparing to leave the office, I couldn't help but ponder upon the fact nobody seemed to know anything; it made me feel strangely vulnerable. It was also a long trip, and I'd not expected to be on the road again so soon.

I was living in a small upstairs flat in those days, in a respectably poor part of the City, which meant the walls were thin, the carpets smelled and the paper was peeling. I don’t believe there was any immediate danger to health, other than a severe depression of my spirits every time I walked in. Fortunately though the atmosphere was frequently brightened by the presence of Jennifer. She was already there when I arrived. She was cooking something and I was grateful for the rich smell of it. It seemed I would not be dining alone which was always a welcome treat. She hadn't said she was coming round and the unexpected sight of her filled me with a sudden sense of well-being. She smiled and wrapped herself around me snugly. "I could always go home, if you like, Scottie" she said, then she giggled in that girlish way of hers and pulled me to the sofa, taking my bag and snatching my glasses away so I could hardly see her.

Jennifer was beautiful; beautiful like the fashion model I'd seen on the tube that morning, like the T.V. ads and the way the soft porn pin ups condition all us adolescent-brained men to think: slim, blonde hair, big breasts, long legs. Truly, she was a delight to behold! Her taste in clothes was extravagant and insatiable. Whether she was messing about in my kitchen or turning out for a night on the town, she was always immaculate, well made up and surrounded by a subtle force field of perfume. It flattered me to think of such a woman having anything to do with rather a plain and dowdy chap like me. I thrilled to her touch, and when we made love I imagined I was lifted into the realms of sublime ecstasy. Perhaps you're thinking I was lucky, but really we were not well matched, and thinking back it was only our mutual loneliness that held us together. Some women have a way of finding out quickly how a man sees his dream-girl and she's able to adapt herself to fit that image for a while. Gradually though, she slips back into her true self and it's then the doubts set in. I'm not saying it's deliberate; more likely, it's done unconsciously but Jenny and I were approaching that stage: I was beginning to feel let down in lots of little ways. She was not the dream girl I'd first thought her to be and I was trying to decide whether or not I could accept her for who she really was.

She shared a flat with another girl, a plain but dotty young thing called Carol. Privacy there was impossible so, whenever she came to my place, she usually stayed over. We'd make love then, sometimes with an almost violent urgency, each trying to soothe an ache we each assumed lay deep within the other, but of course it was just an ache, and anyone would have done. That night, afterwards, we lay talking in the dangerously unguarded way that follows sex. You say things then you wouldn't normally say, in the safer, more guarded hours of daylight, and sometimes, you regret it. "You’re going where? " she whined. "But you've only just come back from your last trip! I’m seeing so little of you these days, Scottie. Can't they send someone else?"

Loneliness again. She had few girlfriends; they were fickle, driven off by the bright light of her beauty, and her vanity. Men were more constant, dazzled like rabbits in a headlight's glare. I told her I'd be back before she knew it, though it was to comfort myself as much as her. I didn't exactly relish the prospect of spending the best part of another week on my own. We dozed for a while and then she asked me how long we'd known each other. It had been over a year: "It's just that I've been thinking," she went on. "Oh?" "You do love me, don't you?" "Yes," I said, cautiously. "Well, isn't it about time I moved in, then?" Poor Jenny! The only times she cooked me anything was when she was softening me up. Having said that, she usually got her way because I rarely felt it worth an argument. On this occasion though I responded strangely, first of all by asking her if she loved me.
