we in a te fo ex th cl me of li di an to da se wh th pr va ar cu or fu .
th pr , wh we ca fu li di an ( fl ) , is pa us wh on fr of th cu ar ob .
al th te as wi ld ca be ex fo us wi fl .
in pa fl ca be us to pr cl on ne ( te ) cu , gi an es of th di fu be cl , an pr a on or tw di pi re of a se of cu .
we al ex th pr to pr ge of qu an re di an .
so ke wo : cl fi fu da li di an lo di re - ti re ra re di an sp cu .
li di an ( ld ) is a po pr wh da ba as fa as fi ( 12 ) .
le x be a q - di ve re an ob fr on of se po cl .
li di an ca be us to cl x if th cl is un .
al , it ca be us to ch th wa th cl di vi a di fu .
th ar se di wa of de ld .
on is us pr mo .
su th th it cl ha de fi x i .
th ba fo te us th
an pr pr p
j f j x
it is re si to sh th th ru th cl to th la co pr wi ma th sm ex nu of mi .
th is kn as th ba ru or cl .
if we fu as th th it cl ha a ga di wi me m i an co s th it ca be sh th cl to th ma co pr is eq to cl to
fi 12 : da me of sp bo mi de ( g fe an th gr li ma .
cm ) fo 12 in .
th bl li re
wh li is th di fu
no th li is a li fu of x .
wh th ma li es fo m at th li di an pr .
i an s ar us we ar
12 ld on fu da
ld ca be im on da of an ni di bu ca be di ap to in - di da su as fu or cu .
pr th en cu ha be ob , th ca be ov by di - cr th ti in .
ho , th ge re in hi co hi - di da wh ma th wi - cl co ma di to es .
th ar tw co so to th pr - le .
th rs is to us so fo of re , su as ad a di ma to th co ma .
se fo ex di ( 12 ) , di ( 12 ) , ca ( 12 ) , fr ( 12 ) an ha et al .
( 12 ) .
we ca th th re me .
th se is to ch a ni - di ba , f , an nd th be pr of ea cu on th ba .
th re ba co ca th be us as a ni - di re ma it po to us ld , or an ot pr , on th ba co .
we ca th th lt me .
un , it is of th ca th on a fr of ea cu ha be ob .
co , fo ex - am , th da il in fi 12
th da co of me of sp bo mi de fo 12 in ta at va ag , a su of th da pr in ba et al .
( 12 ) .
ev th , in ag , th ar 12 ob me ov a pe of al tw de , we on ha 12 - 12 me fo ea in , ty me ov no mo th a co of ye .
in th si
bo of th co ap to di an ca br do .
th re me is no fe be di wo re in a la nu of mi ob in ea di .
th lt me al ha se po pr .
th rs is th an as is ma of a co co ma fo ea cu ba co .
ho , if th cu ar me at di ti po , as is th ca in th gr cu da of fi 12 , th co wi al ha di co .
on wo id li to pu mo we on ac ba co bu th lt me do no al su an ap .
a se pr is th wi ex sp da se so of th ba co - ci ma ha in va , ma it im to es th en cu .
fo ex , wi th sp bo de da , ea in cu ha so fe ob th it is no po to t an re - so ba .
in th ca th me fa an th is no wa to pr .
fo th sp da co in th pa th ar se pr .
12 ge fu mo
th re an lt ap ca bo be vi as me fo tt th fo ge fu mo .
le g t be th cu of an in ra dr fr th it cl .
as th , if
is in cl i , it is di as a ga pr wi
on ty ne ob an in ov th en cu ra on sa th cu wi er at di ti po t1 tn .
we as th th me er ar un wi me ze an co va s 12
le y be th ve of ob of g t
co g t
at ti t1
i as gi in ( 12 ) an s
ma fu - th ba ru fo cl th cu is gi by ( 12 ) wi m ti cl pr ar si me fo tt th mo , i . e .
es m an th us th cl ru gi by ( 12 ) .
fo ex , th re ap at to es - by pr sa es al a ne la of ti po .
al , th lt me fo es by mo m us ba fu .
ho , we sa in se 12 th , wh co wi sp da se , bo me ca pr po ts to th mo .
12 th fl ap
in th pa we pr an al me fo tt th fu mo of 12 , wh co we wi sp da .
we ca th me fu li di an ( fl ) .
th pr us a sp cu pl ra er to mo ob fr ea in .
th sp is pa us a ba fu mu by a q - di co ve .
th ef tr al th da in a si q - di sp .
fi , th co ve is mo us a ga di wi co co ma fo al cl , in an wi ld .
th ob cu ca th be po to
fi 12 : ( a ) a si da se of 12 cu fr 12 di cl .
( b ) th tr cu af re th ra co .
es th co an me fo ea cl .
th ma it po to fo ac es fo ea in cu ba on on a fe ob .
th ha se ad ov th re an lt me .
fi , as it do no re on fo in es fo ea cu , it ca be us on sp da se su as th gr cu da .
se , by pr an es fo th co ke it is po to es th va of th ba co fo ea cu an au pu mo we on th mo ac co .
as a si il of th ef of fl in se cu fr di cl co fi 12 ( a ) .
th is a pl of cu fr a si da se .
cl 12 cu ar pl as bl li an cl 12 as gr .
ea cl ha a di me fu an th cu ar ge by co th cl me wi a ra cu pl ra no no .
fr vi in al th is no ob se be cl .
ho , fi 12 ( b ) pr a pl of th tr cu af us th fl pr to re th ra co fr ea cu .
no th se is cl so wh th sa pr is ap to a ne cu it wi cl be id wh gr it fa in an it ca be cl wi hi ac .
th le of ac de on th si to no ra , wh is hi in th ca .
ho , th ke po is th th st si is no ap in fi 12 ( a ) an on em as a re of us th fl pr .
in th cl tw - cl ld se th tr am to pr ob on th li se sp by th me .
th fl mo an cl pr ar pr in se 12 an 12
on of th re fo th po of ld is th it ca be us fo a va of ta .
it ca be us to pr hi - di da in a lo di an he pr a gr re .
fu it ca al be us fo cl an to pr a di fu to id ar of di be cl .
in se 12 we sh ho fl ca be us to ge ea of th to to fu da .
se 12 ex - pl ho th st fl fr ca be ex to in ra - re an no - id wi - cl co ma .
th la of th ex pr a fu ge of qu
12 th fl mo
in th se we de th fl mo by ge th ld mo gi in 12 to ha fu
12 a ge to fu da le gi j t co ve of ob an me er at ti ti j1
be th tr va at ti t fo th jt in or cu fr th it cl .
le yi j an e
ti jn j .
th we be wi
i j be th
wh k is th nu of cl an mi is th nu of in in th it cl .
th me er ar as to ha me ze , co va s 12 an be un wi ea ot an gi j .
th as im me th we ar as th th ti po th we ha fa to ob ar mi at ra .
as we on ha a ni am of da we ne to pl so re on gi j in or to t th mo .
a co ap to mo fu da is to re th fu us a ex ba ( ra an si 12 , ch 12 ) .
we ch to us na cu sp fu be of th de ma pr an ea im ( de bo , 12 gr an si ,
gi j t
is a sp ba wi di q an h
wh s t le to a mo re mo ,
i j is a q - di ve of sp co
no th th pr of mo yi j ha re to on of mo h i j is a q - di va , so a na ap is to mo it us th ga di as fo th st ld
ho , h
s ti j1
s ti jn j
i j n 12
if we as th th er te ar al no di th gi
12 ra re ld
i j n 12
i j n 12
a re - ra ve of ld is of pe by tr or pr th va in a lo - di su an cl in th su .
th su is ch to ma th be - cl co re to th wi - cl co .
th tr va ar ca li di - cr or ca va .
an ( 12 ) an ha an ti ( 12 ) ou an al pr us th co
i ar re q - an h - di ve , an l
wh l 12 an a se of au sh th us ma li to t th ga ld mo of 12 wi th ad co ( 12 ) an cl to th ma po pr is id to th cl fr th re ra ld pr .
h ma , h
is a q
th sa ra co ca be pl on th me in ( 12 ) .
th gi th na fo of th fl mo ,
i j n 12
i j n 12
in wh l 12 , l ti on l
an th a
i ar co if no co is im .
th we pl th fo re -
l t st
sg st an s is th ba ma ev ov a ne la of po .
th co pr a fo of no fo th li di .
mo de wi be gi in th fo se .
in pr th la sh in , at le , al ti po in th da se .
fo ex th sp bo de 12 ye so th la co th sa da wa me in 12 pe .
th mo is id to th ge fu mo of 12 wi
12 of a ye in fr ag 12
12 to 12
12 cl cu
tg s t
in th se we rs de a ma li pr fo tt ( 12 ) an th a me fo fo cl by co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) to fo an es of th ba cl .
12 fi th mo fi th fl mo in es l 12
g an s 12
no th ( 12 ) im
yi j n si j
si jg st
si ob fr di in ar as to be in , th jo di of th ob cu is
12 yi j
a na ap to tt th mo is to ma ( 12 ) ov l 12 ma th li is a di no - co op pr .
if th g
g an s 12
un , di i j ha be ob , ho -
ev , th jo li of yi j an g
i j wo si to
12 12 yi j
12 ni j
t yi j
ma th li is mu le co , an su tr th g i j as mi da an im - me th em al ( de et al . , 12 la an wa , 12 ) .
th em al in al - te ca th ex va of th mi da g i j an ma th jo li .
th e st is pe us th eq
i js j
i j yi j
si jl 12
wh th m st in ma
t yi j
ni j lo
ho g i j xe .
fu de ca be ob fr th we si ww - rc . us . ed / ga .
as wi al
em al th li wi in at ea it bu it is po to re a lo ra th gl ma .
th ca be a pr fo ve sp da se su as th bo mi de da .
ho , th pr is ge el by en a ra co on g as di in 12 .
ot mo se qu ar in pr , su as th ch of q , th di of th sp ba .
th ar se po pr th ha be ap to mo of th ty .
on is to ca th cr - va li fo va di an ch th mo co to th ma ( ja et al . , 12 ) .
ai an bi ar tw ot , le co ex , pr th ha al pr su on th so of da ( ri an wu , 12 ) .
in pr th na cl ap to be re ro to an re ch of di bu th is an ar of on re .
no th un th st re - ra ld mo ,
he , us ba fo , th pr of cl i gi x is pr to
th cl an ob x us re - ra ld is id to cl to
no th th se li fo fr th fa th l ts
th me
it ca be sh th
x an a
i ar eq to th li di of x an m
i th ld pr , up to an
th sa ap is us fo fl .
by co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) we se th th po pr th
a cu y wa ge fr cl i is pr to
wh sy is th sp ba ma fo y an
so y wi be cl to
no , ho , th if on le
he ( 12 ) is eq to
l t sy
12 l t sy
ju as wi st ld , th ( 12 ) co to cl to th cl wh me is cl to ou te po in th re y .
no al th if y ha be me sp wh di is me us th in co of
i ar , up to an ad co , th li di of y an m
y an a
l t sy
ov th en ti pe , so th sy
an ( 12 ) re to
12 ap of fl
in th se we sh ho th of th mo im to th ld pr , na , lo di re , di fu an cl , ca be re us fl .
12 lo di re of cu
on of th re fo th po of ld is th it pr th ab to vi hi - di da by pr it on a lo - di sp .
th al on to vi de th di be
fi 12 : ( a ) li di fo ea cu of th sp bo de da , pl ag th av ag pe we me at .
( b ) es of th st er of th li di fo ea cu pl ag th av ag .
th is a cl tr of in va wi ag .
cl .
as me in 12 , in a st ni - di se th li di of x eq
up to an ad co .
as co di be di ob is eu an ca be ea ca by vi in .
i , th tr va al ha id co , so th
th pr a na ap to pr fu da in a lo - di sp .
in th fl y is th li di fo y an th if y i .
ho , if on fr of th cu ha be
y , gi in ( 12 ) .
re th
mo th an of ha be ob ov th en in co
l t sy
th ma di co of po mo di be th co st ma no lo be di an , in ge , cu me at di ti po wi ha di co .
ho , 12 , so th li di is a sc , th on ef th ha is th ea po ha a di st er .
fi 12 - 12 pr ex of th .
fi 12 ( a ) sh li di fo ea cu fr th gr cu da of fi 12 , pl ve th av ag fo ob fr ea in .
fo a tw - cl si , su as th , th pl al pr a si cl ru cu wi po li di ar cl as ma an cu wi ne li di as fe .
th pl re so in pr of th da .
cu me at ag be ei ye ar re we - se wh in me at ol ag ha li di se .
th tr is al ap up cl ex of th or cu .
th tw so ve li ei si of ze gi th tt va fo th a is .
th re th cl ce in th tr sp .
th cl pr to ea ot re to th va of th li di in li ov se be cl .
ho , re th , as a re
fi 12 : ( a ) pl of th li di fo ea cu on th sp bo de da ve th es st er .
( b ) a li di pl fo a si da se .
it sh a fa cl di be th cl bu al a si ov .
of ( 12 ) , th li di of y wi ha a st er of on if th cu is me ov th en in .
in fa th se be th ce is ab 12 12 st de .
th im th th co be ge is a re of th sm nu of ob pe in , wh ca th st er to in dr .
a cl se co be ac wi mo ob .
fi 12 ( b ) gi th st er fo ea li di ve av ag of ob .
a cu wi me ov th en ti pe wo ha st er 12 , so th pl gi an in of th am of in lo by on ob th cu at a li nu of ti po .
th st er ra fr ov te to ei , in th a gr de of ac ha be sa .
th in va al ex th po se at ol ag wh th st er ar la re to th di be th cl ce .
on th mo ha be t , th st er ca be ca fo a cu ob at an ar se of ti po .
th pr a me fo de on an op de in te of lo a ni nu of ob fo an in to mi th st er .
fi 12 gi tw pl wh co th li di an th st er to .
th gi an ea me fo de on th re of a gi ob .
fo ex po wi hi st er sh be tr wi ca .
we ca th li di pl .
th le an ri ve do li in th cl ce wh th ce li ar th cl di .
fi 12 ( a ) sh th th po wi re lo st er ha fa be se th th wi a la st er .
fi 12 ( b ) pr a si pl fo a si da se co of 12 cu me at th sa se of ti po as th of th da se il in fi 12
no th ev th ea cu ha be me at fa ev sp po th th ti in th st er st ra up to te .
th tw cl ar re we se bu th is st so cl ov .
th di be th cl ce is 12 st de , in th on co ac ne pe se by sa th cu at a wi ra of ti po .
fi 12 an 12 ar fu li di pl .
th we pr by us et as th cl
fi 12 : li di fo th sp bo de da us et as th cl va .
( a ) th do li re , fr le to ri , cl ce fo bl , hi , wh , an as .
no th bl an as ar fa we se wh hi an wh ar no .
( b ) th so li re de bo fo cl a gi cu .
va on a su of th gr cu da , al fe .
a pl of th gr cu fo ea et ( no sh ) in th th ma be no cl se be cl .
th is bo ou by fi 12 ( a ) wh gi a pl of li di ve av ag .
th is si ov be th cl .
ho , it is st po to ga so in .
th fo ve do li re th cl ce - tr fo , fr le to ri , bl , hi , wh an as .
it is cl th th is ve li se be hi an wh wh bl an as ar re we se .
th is hi by fi 12 wh sh li di an a pl of th ra da fo bl an as al .
th di - en ar no cl .
fi 12 ( b ) is id to 12 ( a ) ex th th th di bo ar pl in pl of th cl ce .
th di bo di th sp in fo re .
po in th le re ar cl as bl , th ne as hi , fo by wh an na as .
th ab of ld to pe cl is of eq im to it ab to ex di be cl .
in 12 we sh th to cl a cu us fl on ne on pr ( 12 ) an cl us ( 12 ) .
wh al cl ha eq we an y is on di th cl ru si to
wh cl is no th pr go on th sp bo de da , we ap ( 12 ) to it to il th pr .
wh us ge as th cl va th ov tr er ra co ou at 12 ho , th ra in su to 12 12 fo ag un 12
th co to ou ex fr fi 12 ( a ) wh sh mu be di fo lo
12 fo ag ov 12 an de to 12
fi 12 : ( a ) li di fo bl an as .
wh th is st so ov th se is fa cl .
th ve li gi th cl bo .
( b ) a pl of th ra da fo bl an as .
no th bl te to ha a hi bo de .
th tw so li re th me fo bl an as wh th do li ar fo hi an wh .
ta 12 gi th co ma wh et is us as th cl va .
it sh th tr et an th co cl fo ea of th 12 in .
fo ex , 12 of th 12 as we cl as as wh 12 of th 12 hi we cl as bl .
wh th ov tr er ra is 12 12 , a la fr of th er ar am hi an wh , wh as an bl ar re we cl .
wh as an bl ar co al th er ra dr to 12 .
in ta 12 we pr th re fr a si st wh th fl pr is co wi tw ot cl .
th rs is th lt me of 12 .
re th th lt me co of tt a ex ba , in th ca cu sp , to ea cu an th cl by us ld on th ba co .
th lt me pr a si co to fl .
th se is th ba cl wh is op if th tr di of th cl is kn .
it pr th be ca er ra
ta 12 : co ma of cl fo th fo et .
th nu in pa gi th pe of ea et re th co cl .
as an bl ha re li co wh hi an wh ha a gr de .
ta 12 : te er ra fr th si st fo va di fr of mi da .
th nu in pa in es st er fo th er ra .
st co of a th - cl pr .
fo ea cl , 12 cu we ge ac to th fl mo ( 12 ) an sa on a ne gr of 12 eq - sp po .
th , fo ea cu , a ra su , 12 - 12 , of th ob , we re to re cu fr .
mu da se we cr an th fl an lt pr we ap to ea .
er ra we th ca on a se , te se , of 12 cu .
fu th ba er ra , wh is th lo po , wa al ca on th te se .
ov th 12 ti po th av de of me cu be cl 12 an 12 an 12 wh it wa tw th nu be cl 12 an 12
th st be cl 12 an 12 wa 12 de of th er te wa s 12
fi th av st de ov th 12 ti po of th ra cu sg wa ap 12 12
th rs gu gi a gu as to th si wh th la tw in th no .
ta 12 pr a su of th te er ra .
as on wo ex , al th se of er ra in wi th fr of mi da .
of fa mo in is th si be th fl an ba er ra .
ev wi 12 of th da re th di is on 12 12 .
wi le th 12 of th da re th lt an fl me gi co re .
ho , th lt me de ra un at 12 it er ra is cl to th of th na cl wh ra as a cl la ba on th pr pr fo ea cl .
no th at 12 th lt me co no ev be ap to se of th si da se be in cu co no be tt .
12 cl di fu
in a st tw - cl ld se th di fu is de as
tl t st
de th cl of a po .
in th fl se m
is th wi gr co ma .
th fu gi th we pu on ea di in so th fu an is
sg st an s is th sp ba ma ev on a ne gr of po ov th en ti pe .
eq ( 12 ) ca be us to pr a di fu fo an se of da .
fi 12 pr ex fr th gr cu da .
fi 12 ( a ) gi th di fu us ge as th cl va .
th is a st ne pe be ag 12 an a la po pe af th in a ph sh be ge an ex wh th is fa be se fo th ea ag .
fi 12 ( b ) gi a si pl us et as th cl va .
ag mo of th di ap to be in th ea ye .
a co of di fu pr fr th si st of 12 , us bo th fl an lt ap , is gi in fi 12
th po di fu is sh in bl wh
fi 12 : di fu fo th gr cu da of fi 12
( a ) us ge as th cl va .
th is a st in of ph sh .
( b ) us et as th cl va .
it es ar in gr .
fi 12 ( a ) an ( b ) pr re fr th st wi 12 of th da re wh fi 12 ( c ) an ( d ) pr re wi 12 re .
fo ea , th to pl sh th di fu fr 12 di si us fl , wh th bo pl gi th co gr fo th lt ap .
as ad or mu th di fu by a co le th cl - si un , th es ha be tr to pr th le sq t to th po di fu .
it is cl th in bo ca th fl ap is pr mo ac di - in fu , re in th de er ra of ta 12
un th st fl mo
co yi j
si jg st
in th se we co a nu of po ex to th mo by ex di as fo g an he th co ma of yi j .
12 re ra co ma un ( 12 ) , no re ar pl on th st of g .
in pr , th li fu fo da se su as th sp bo de da ha a la nu of lo ma wh ma th mo di to t .
as a re , fo ev mo q , on ca pr a hi va t to th da .
ja et al .
( 12 ) sh th su pr ca be re by en a ra co on g .
a ra p co is eq to
q dq t an
co yi j
si jq dq ts
fl di fu
fl di fu
fi di fu
fi di fu
fi 12 : re fr tw di se of si .
pl ( a ) an ( b ) sh th tr di fu ( bl li ) an es ( gr li ) fr 12 di si us fl ( a ) an lt ( b ) me wi 12 of ea cu un .
pl ( c ) an ( d ) sh th eq re wi 12 of ea cu un .
is a q
q ) ma an d is a di ma .
ja et al .
( 12 ) su se me fo ch th ra an co th th op ra fo
th re fr se 12 we pr us su a re ra mo wi p
th da is p be th ga a fa be t to th da .
12 fu qu di an th fl pr , in an wi ld , ma an as of a co co ma , g i j ve fr ea cl .
th ca re in a co re in va fo cl wi a sm sa si .
ho , th as ca ca a co in in bi if th co ar no co .
in a st se qu di an ( qd ) pr a le re pr by al di co ma .
in a si ma th fl mo of 12 ca be ge by re th as of a co co te , g
th gi th co st
co yi j
i is th co ma fo cl i .
th po pr is no pr to
by tt th mo an cl to ar mi di y qu di an ( fq ) is pr .
a ge of qd , wh we ca fu
12 fu re di an
it is we kn th ld ca pe ba if th as of a co wi - cl co ma is vi , wh qd ge re a la sa si ( wa an kr , 12 ) .
a sm sa si ca a co ma to be pr wh is cl to si an he ex we is pl on th di co to sm ei .
re ha be hi su in th so of po - po in pr ( ti ( 12 ) , os ( 12 ) ) .
fr ( 12 ) su th fo re ap .
le si ni be th wi cl sa co ma fo cl i an le ni is us fo qd .
a co be th tw ap ca be ac by se th wi - cl co ma
n is th po co ma wh is us fo ld wh si
th s
w1 s an ni w1
a se le of re , na sh to th id ma , is pr th
wh q is th di of th sp .
g is us as th wi - cl co ma fo th it cl .
fr ca th ap re di an ( rd ) .
rd ha be sh to ou bo ld an qd in a la va of si .
a ge to fu re di an ( fr ) ca be ac us th fo -
lo co st
co yi j
si j g
is de as in ( 12 ) .
th ch of w1 an w1 is ma us cr - va .
ap cr - va to th fr mo is po co ex .
ho , in th rd se , an al up al fo a si fa im ( fr , 12 ) .
th up ca be us in th fl se by tt th fq mo , tr th re g i js as q di da an tt rd to es w1 an w1 , an na tt th fr mo wi w1 an w1 xe .
fr co bo fl an fq as su mo .
by se bo w1 an w1 eq to ze th fq 12 pr th fl mo .
fu , by se 12 a fu ge of th ne - me cl is pr wh an ob is
12 an w1
mo is pr .
wh se w1
as to th cl cl me , in eu di .
we ha pr a me , wh we ca fu li di an ( fl ) , fo ge - in li di an to fu da .
fl po al th us ld to , in a lo - di gr su of th da , an cl of ne cu .
wh th fu da ha be me ov a la nu of ti po th pr pr si re to th lt me in in se 12 .
ho , wh on fr of th fu ar av th fl ap ca st pr fa ou wh th lt me fa co .
fl ca al be ge in a nu of wa .
a re ra ve ca be im wh th da ar ve sp an a qu ve ca be us wh an as of a co co ma is in .
a re ve , wh is a co be fl an fq , is al av .
an po ge , wh we ha no co , is to mo he va an au in th er te .
th ma we im th cl ac of th me pr en ti po ha be ob pe cu to pr ac es .
un , al s 12 to va wo ma it im to en th co ,
l t st
in tu ( 12 ) al gu su as wh en th , if a cu is me at al ti po , co 12 ( b ) to pr a me of th am of in lo th mi ob .
if s 12 wa al to va th in wo no lo be fe .
th au wo li to th th ed an re fo ma co su .
tr ha wa pa su by gr fr th na sc fo an th na in of he .
