we ce a ue or ng he al od of ar nt is to ta ts re he or es re es or ns .
is re , ch we ll al ar nt is ( da ) , is ly ul en ly ts of he es re ed .
ll he es ed th da an be ed or se th da .
in ar da an be ed to ce ns on ew ( st ) es , ve an te of he nt on en es , nd de a ne or wo al al on of a et of es .
we so nd is re to de ns of ic nd ed nt is .
me ey ds : n; g; al a; ar nt s; ow al ta - n; ed k; ed nt s; se es .
ar nt is ( da ) is a ar re ch es ck as ar as er ( 23 ) .
et x be a q - al or ng an on om ne of al le es .
ar nt is an be ed to fy x if he ss is wn .
ly , it an be ed to ze he ay at es er ia a nt on .
re re al nt ys of ng da .
ne is ng ty ls .
se at he th ss as ty fi x i .
en es la ls us at
nd or ty p
j f j x
it is ly le to ow at he le at es to he st al ty ll ke he st ed er of ns .
is is wn as he es le or er .
if we er me at he th ss as a an on th an m i nd ce s en it an be wn at ng to he um al ty is nt to ng to
re 23 : ta ts of al ne al ty ( g es nd he ey es es .
23 ) or 23 ls .
he ck es nt
re li is he nt on
te at li is a ar on of x .
en he um od es or m at he ar nt is re .
i nd s re ed we ve
23 da on al ta
da an be ed on ta of ny te on ut ot be ly ed to te - al ta ch as ns or es .
ed he re ve as en ed , is an be me by is - ng he me al .
er , is ly ts in ly ed gh - al ta ch es he in - ss ce ix lt to te .
re re wo on ns to is ob - em .
he st is to se me rm of on , ch as ng a al ix to he ce ix .
ee or le lo ( 23 ) , lo ( 23 ) , ll ( 23 ) , an ( 23 ) nd ie et al .
( 23 ) .
we ll is he on od .
he nd is to se a te - al is , f , nd nd he st on of ch ve to is is .
he ng is ts an en be ed as a te - al on ng it le to se da , or ny er re , on he is ts .
we ll is he ng od .
ly , it is en he se at ly a nt of ch ve as en ed .
er , or ex - le , he ta ed in re 23
se ta st of ts of al ne al ty or 23 ls en at us es , a et of he ta ed in ch et al .
( 23 ) .
en gh , in te , re re 23 ns ed er a od of st wo es , we ly ve 23 - 23 ts or ch al , ly ed er no re an a le of rs .
in is on
th of he on es to nt is an ak wn .
he on od is ot le se ng ld lt in a ge er of ng ns in ch on .
he ng od so as al al ms .
he st is at an on is de of a on ce ix or ch es is ts .
er , if he es re ed at nt me ts , as is he se in he th ve ta of re 23 , he ts ll ll ve nt es .
ne ld ly ke to ut re ht on te is ts ut he ng od es ot ow ch an ch .
a nd em is at th ly se ta ts me of he is ef - ts ay ve te ce , ng it le to te he re ve .
or le , th he al ne ty ta , ch al ve as so ew ns at it is ot le to t ny ea - le is .
in is se he od ls nd re is no ay to ed .
or he se ta ed in is er se re us ms .
23 al al el
he on nd ng es an th be ed as ds or ng he ng al al el .
et g t be he ve of an al ly wn om he th ss .
me at , if
is in ss i , it is ed as a an ss th
ne ly er es an al er he re e; er ne es he ve th or at ct me ts 23 tn .
we me at he nt rs re ed th an ro nd nt ce s 23
et y be he or of ns of g t
ov g t
at es 23
i as en in ( 23 ) nd s
ny nc - he es le or ng is ve is en by ( 23 ) th m al on es re ly ds or ng is el , i . e .
ng m nd en ng he on le en by ( 23 ) .
or le , he on ch ts to es - by ng le es ng a ne ce of me ts .
ly , he ng od ms es by ng m ng is ns .
er , we aw in on 23 at , en ed th se ta ts , th ds an ce or ts to he el .
23 he da ch
in is er we nt an ve od or ng he al el of 23 , ch es ll th se ta .
we ll is od al ar nt is ( da ) .
he re es a ne ve us om or to el ns om ch al .
he ne is ed ng a is on ed by a q - al nt or .
is ly ms ll he ta to a le q - al ce .
ly , he nt or is ed ng a an on th on ce ix or ll es , in gy th da .
he ed es an en be ed to
re 23 : ( a ) a ed ta et of 23 es om 23 nt es .
( b ) he ed es er ng he om ts .
te he ce nd an or ch ss .
is es it le to rm te es or ch al ve ed on ly a ew ns .
is as al es er he on nd ng ds .
st , as it es ot ly on ng al es or ch ve , it an be ed on se ta ts ch as he th ve ta .
nd , by ng an te or he ce el it is le to te he ce of he is nt or ch ve nd ly ut re ht on he re te ts .
as a le on of he ss of da in ng es om nt es er re 23 ( a ) .
is is a ot of es om a ed ta et .
ss 23 es re ed as ck es nd ss 23 as ey .
ch ss as a nt an on nd he es re ed by ng he ss an th a om ve us om al se .
om al on ne re is no us on en es .
er , re 23 ( b ) es a ot of he ed es er ng he da re to ve he om nt om ch ve .
ow he on is ar so en he me re is ed to a ew ve it ll ly be le ch up it ls to nd it an be ed th gh cy .
he el of cy ds on he al to se io , ch is gh in is se .
er , he ey nt is at he ng al is ot nt in re 23 ( a ) nd ly es as a lt of ng he da re .
in he al wo - ss da ng is on ts to ng ns to he ne nt ed by he ns .
he da el nd on re re ed in ns 23 nd 23
ne of he ns or he ty of da is at it an be ed or a ty of ks .
it an be ed to ct gh - al ta to a ow on nd ce ce a al on .
re it an so be ed or on nd to ce a nt on to fy as of on en es .
in on 23 we ow ow da an be ed to ze ch of se ls to al ta .
on 23 ex - ns ow he rd da rk an be ed to de nk - ed nd on - al in - ss ce es .
he er of se ns es a al on of ic
23 he da el
in is on we op he da el by ng he da el en in 23 to le al
23 a on to al ta et gi j t ng rs of ns nd nt rs at es ti 23
be he ue ue at me t or he th al or ve om he th ss .
et yi j nd e
ti ni j .
en we in th
i j be he
re k is he er of es nd mi is he er of ls in he th ss .
he nt rs re ed to ve an ro , nt ce s 23 nd be ed th ch er nd gi j .
se ns ly an at we re ng at he me ts at we ve ed to ve re ng at om .
as we ly ve a te nt of ta we ed to ce me ns on gi j in er to t is el .
a on ch to ng al ta is to nt he ns ng a le is ( ay nd an 23 , er 23 ) .
we se to se al ic ne ns se of ir le al es nd sy on ( de or , 3; en nd an ,
gi j t
is a ne is th on q nd h
re s t ds to a re ed el ,
i j is a q - al or of ne ts
ce at he em of ng yi j as ed to ne of ng h i j is a q - al le , so a al ch is to el it ng he an on ed or he rd da
er , h
s ti 23
s ti ni j
i j n 23
if we me at he or ms re so ly ed is es
23 nk ed da
i j n 23
i j n 23
a ed - nk on of da is en ed by ng or ng he es to a er - al ce nd ng in is ce .
he ce is en to ze he en - ss ce ve to he in - ss ce .
se ed es re ed ar is - ts or al es .
on ( 23 ) nd ie nd ni ( 23 ) ne an ve re ng he nt
i re ly q - nd h - al rs , nd l
re l 23 nd a ts of rs ow at ng um od to t he an da el of 23 th he ed nt ( 23 ) nd ng to he um or ty is al to he on om he ed nk da re .
h ix , h
is a q
he me nk nt an be ed on he ns in ( 23 ) .
is es he al rm of he da el ,
i j n 23
i j n 23
in ch l 23 , l ns on l
nd he a
i re ed if no nt is ed .
re we ce he ng ic -
l t ts
sg st nd s is he is ix ed er a ne ce of ts .
he nt es a rm of on or he ar ts .
re ls ll be en in he ng on .
in ce he ce ld de , at st , ll me ts in he ta et .
or le he al ne ty 23 rs so he ce ed he me ta as ed in 23 od .
is el is al to he al al el of 23 th
th of a ar ts om ge 23
23 to 23
23 ng es
tg s t
in is on we st il a um od re or ng ( 23 ) nd en a od or ng ns by ng ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) to rm an te of he es er .
23 ng he el ng he da el es ng l 23
g nd s 23
ce at ( 23 ) es
yi j n si j
si jg st
ce ns om nt ls re ed to be nt , he nt on of he ed es is
23 yi j
a al ch to ng he el is to ze ( 23 ) er l 23 ng is od is a lt on - ex on em .
if he g
g nd s 23
ly , ly i j ad en ed , ow -
er , he nt od of yi j nd g
i j ld fy to
3s 23 yi j
3s ni j
t yi j
ng is od is ch ss ex , nd ts ng he g i j as ng ta nd le - ng he em hm ( er et al . , 3; rd nd re , 23 ) .
he em hm es al - ly ng he ed ue of he ng ta g i j nd ng he nt od .
he e ep is ed ng he on
i si j
i j yi j
si jl 23
le he m ep es ng
t yi j
ni j og
ng g i j ed .
er ls an be ed om he eb te ww - cf . sc . du / th .
as th ll
em ms he od ll se at ch on ut it is le to ch a al er an al um .
is an be a em or ry se ta ts ch as he ne al ty ta .
er , he em is ly ed by ng a nk nt on g as ed in 23 .
er el on ns se in ce , ch as he ce of q , he on of he ne is .
re re al le es at ve en ed to ls of is pe .
ne is to te he ss - ed od or us ns nd se he el ng to he um ( es et al . , 23 ) .
ic nd ic re wo er , ss ly ve , es at ve so ed ul on is rt of ta ( ce nd wu , 23 ) .
in ce he al on rs to be ly st to ny le ce of on ut is is an ea of ng ch .
ce at er he rd ed - nk da el ,
ce , ng es la , he ty of ss i en x is al to
at ng an on x ng ed - nk da is al to ng to
te at he nd ne ws om he ct at l ts
is ns
it an be wn at
x nd a
i re al to he ar ts of x nd m
i at da es , up to an
he me ch is ed or da .
by ng ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) we ee at he or ty at
a ve y as ed om ss i is al to
re sy is he ne is ix or y nd
so y ll be ed to
ce , er , at if ne ts
ce ( 23 ) is nt to
l t sy
23 l t sy
st as th rd da , re ( 23 ) ds to ng to he ss se an is st to ur st nt in he ed y .
ce so at if y as en ed ce re ce is ed ng he se ce of
i re , up to an ve nt , he ar ts of y nd m
y nd a
l t sy
er he re me od , so at sy
nd ( 23 ) es to
23 ns of da
in is on we ow ow ee of he st nt ls at da es , ly , ow al on , on ns nd on , an be ed ng da .
23 ow al on of es
ne of he ns or he ty of da is at it es he ty to ew gh - al ta by ng it to a ow - al ce .
is ws ne to ly ne he on en
re 23 : ( a ) ar ts or ch ve of he al ne ty ta , ed st he ge ge le re ed at .
( b ) es of he rd or of he ar ts or ch ve ed st he ge ge .
re is a ar nd of ng ty th ge .
es .
as ed in 23 , in a rd te - al ng he ar nt of x ls
up to an ve nt .
as ov ce en nt ns is an nd an be ly ed by al on .
i , he ed es ll ve ty ce , so he
is es a al ch to ng al ta to a ow - al ce .
in he da y is he ar nt or y nd at if y i .
er , if ly ts of he ve ve en
y , en in ( 23 ) .
ll at
el he ue of as en ed er he re al ov
l t sy
is es ct on of ts re lt se he ce re ay no er be al nd , in al , es ed at nt me ts ll ve nt es .
er , 23 , so he ar nt is a ar , he ly ct is as is at ch nt as a nt rd or .
es 23 - 23 de es of is .
re 23 ( a ) ws ar ts or ch ve om he th ve ta of re 23 , ed us he ge ge or ns om ch al .
or a wo - ss on , ch as is , he ot so es a le on e; es th ve ar nt re ed as le nd es th ve ar nt as le .
he ot ls me ng es of he ta .
es ed at es ow en rs re ly ll - ed le ls ed at er es ve le le on .
is nd is so nt on se on of he al es .
he wo id al es er de of ro ve he ed es or he a is .
ey nt he ss ds in he ed ce .
ir se ty to ch er ve to he ty of he ar ts te le ll on en es .
er , ll at , as a lt
re 23 : ( a ) ot of he ar ts or ch ve on he al ne ty ta us he ed rd rs .
( b ) a ar nt ot or a ed ta et .
it ws a ly ar ce en he es ut so a nt ap .
of ( 23 ) , he ar nt of y ll ve a rd or of ne if he ve is ed er he re al .
in ct he on en he ds is ut 23 23 rd ns .
is es at he on en rs is a lt of he ll er of ns er al , ch se he rd or to se ly .
a ar on ld be ed th re ns .
re 23 ( b ) es he rd or or ch ar nt us ge ge of on .
a ve th ts er he re me od ld ve rd or 23 , so is ot es an on of he nt of on st by ly ng he ve at a ed er of me ts .
he rd rs ge om er en to ty , ng at a at al of cy as en ed .
he ed ty so ns he or on at er es re he rd rs re ge ve to he ce en he ss ds .
ce he el as en t , he rd or an be ed or a ve ed at an ry et of me ts .
is es a od or ng on an al gn in ms of ng a te er of ns or an al to ze he rd or .
re 23 es wo ts ch ne he ar ts nd ir rd rs er .
is es an sy od or ng on he ty of a en on .
or le ts th gh rd or ld be ed th on .
we ll se ar nt ts .
he ft nd ht al ed es te he ss ds le he er es re he ss rs .
re 23 ( a ) ws at he ts th ly ow rd or ve ar er on an se th a ge rd or .
re 23 ( b ) es a ar ot or a ed ta et ng of 23 es ed at he me et of me ts as at of he ta et ed in re 23
ce at en gh ch ve as en ed at ly ly ed ts ut he me al he rd rs ll ge up to en .
he wo es re ly ll ed ut re is ll me ar ap .
he ce en he ss ds is 23 rd ns , ng at ne ld ve ar ct on by ng he es at a er ge of me ts .
es 23 nd 23 re er ar nt ts .
ey re ed by ng ty as he ss
re 23 : ar ts or he al ne ty ta ng ty as he ss le .
( a ) he ed es nt , om ft to ht , ss ds or ks , cs , es , nd ns .
ce at ks nd ns re ly ll ed le cs nd es re ot .
( b ) he id es nt on es or ng a en ve .
le on a et of he th ve ta , ll es .
a ot of he th es or ch ty ( ot wn ) es at re ay be no ar on en es .
is is ne ut by re 23 ( a ) ch es a ot of ar nt us ge ge .
re is nt ap en he es .
er , it is ll le to in me on .
he ur al ed es nt he ss en - ds or , om ft to ht , ks , cs , es nd ns .
it is ar at re is ry le on en cs nd es le ks nd ns re ly ll ed .
is is ed by re 23 ch ws ar ts nd a ot of he aw ta or ks nd ns ne .
he er - es re ow ar .
re 23 ( b ) is al to 23 ( a ) pt at he ee on es re ed in ce of he ss ds .
he on es de he ce to ur ns .
ts in he st on re ed as ck , he xt as ic , ed by te nd ly an .
he ty of da to rm on is of al ce to ts ty to in on en es .
in 23 we ed at to fy a ve ng da ne ed ly ce ( 23 ) nd fy ng ( 23 ) .
en ll es ve al ht nd y is ne al is on le es to
le on is ot he ry al on he al ne ty ta , we ly ( 23 ) to it to te he re .
en ng er as he ss le he ll ng or te es ut at 23 er , he te es ly to 23 3% or es er 23
is ms to ur ns om re 23 ( a ) ch ws ch er on or er
3% or es er 23 nd es to 23
re 23 : ( a ) ar ts or ks nd ns .
le re is ll me ap he on is ar er .
he al ne es he on ry .
( b ) a ot of he aw ta or ks nd ns .
ce at ks nd to ve a er ne ty .
he wo id es nt he ns or ks nd ns le he ed es re or cs nd es .
le 23 es he on ix en ty is ed as he ss le .
it ws he ue ty nd he ng on or ch of he 23 ls .
or le , 23 of he 23 ns re ed as an le 23 of he 23 cs re ed as ck .
le he ll ng or te is 23 3% , a ge on of he rs re ng cs nd es , le ns nd ks re ly ll ed .
en ns nd ks re ed ne he or te ps to 3% .
in le 23 we nt he ts om a on dy re he da re is ed th wo er rs .
he st is he ng od of 23 .
ll at he ng od ts of ng a le is , in is se ic es , to ch ve nd en ng by ng da on he is ts .
he ng od es a le on to da .
he nd is he es er ch is al if he ue on of he es is wn .
it es he st se or te
le 23 : on ix of ns or he ur es .
he rs in es ve he es of ch ty ng he ng on .
ns nd ks ve ly le on le cs nd es ve a at al .
le 23 : st or es om he on dy or us nt ns of ng ta .
he rs in es te ed rd rs or he or es .
dy ed of a ee - ss em .
or ch ss , 23 es re ed ng to he da el ( 23 ) nd ed on a ne id of 23 ly - ed ts .
en , or ch ve , a om et , 23 - 3% , of he ns , re ed to te ve ts .
le ta ts re ed nd he da nd ng es re ed to ch .
or es re en ed on a te , st et , of 23 es .
re he es or te , ch is he st le , as so ed on is st et .
er he 23 me ts he ge on of an es en es 23 nd 23 nd 23 le it as ce is er en es 23 nd 23
he rd en es 23 nd 23 as 23 on of he or ms as s 23
ly he ge rd on er he 23 me ts of he om es sg as ly 23 23
he st re es a de as to he al le he st wo te he se .
le 23 es a ry of he st or es .
as ne ld ct , ll ee ts of or es se th he on of ng ta .
of ar re st is he ty en he da nd es or es .
en th 3% of he ta ed he ce is ly 23 3% .
th ss an 3% of he ta ed he ng nd da ds ve le ts .
er , he ng od es ly il at 3% ts or te is se to at of he ve er ch ly ns a ss el ed on he or ty or ch ss .
te at at 3% he ng od ld ot en be ed to al of he ed ta ts se al es ld ot be ed .
23 ss on ns
in a rd wo - ss da ng he nt on is ed as
tl t ts
ng he on of a nt .
in he da ng m
is he in up ce ix .
is on es he ht ut on ch on in so he al ue is
sg st nd s is he ne is ix ed on a ne id of ts er he re me od .
on ( 23 ) an be ed to ce a nt on or ny et of ta .
re 23 es es om he th ve ta .
re 23 ( a ) es he nt on ng er as he ss le .
re is a ng ve ak re ge 23 nd a ge ve ak s; is es a se ft en rs nd ns hy re is ar er on or he er es .
re 23 ( b ) es a ar ot ng ty as he ss le .
in st of he on rs to be in he ly rs .
a on of nt ns ed om he on dy of 23 , ng th he da nd ng es , is en in re 23
he on nt on is wn in ck le
re 23 : nt ns or he th ve ta of re 23
( a ) ng er as he ss le .
re is a ng on of se ft .
( b ) ng ty as he ss le .
ts es re in ey .
es 23 ( a ) nd ( b ) nt ts om he dy th 3% of he ta ed le es 23 ( c ) nd ( d ) nt ts th 3% ed .
or ch , he op ot ws he nt ns om 23 nt ns ng da , le he om ot es he ng ph or he ng ch .
as ng or ng he nt on by a nt es he as - on ed , he es ve en ed to ce he st es t to he on nt on .
it is ar at in th es he da ch is ng re te im - nt ns , ed in he ed or es of le 23
er he rd da el
ov yi j
si jg st
in is on we er a er of le ns to is el by ng nt ns or g nd ce he ce ix of yi j .
23 ed nk ce es er ( 23 ) , no ns re ed on he re of g .
in ce , he od on or ta ts ch as he al ne ty ta as a ge er of al ma ch ke is el lt to t .
as a lt , or en te q , ne an ce a ly le t to he ta .
es et al .
( 23 ) ow at ch ms an be ed by ng a nk nt on g .
a nk p nt is nt to
q dq t nd
ov yi j
si jq dq st
da nt ns
da nt ns
ng nt ns
ng nt ns
re 23 : ts om wo nt ts of ns .
ts ( a ) nd ( b ) ow he ue nt on ( ck ne ) nd es ( ey es ) om 23 nt ns ng da ( a ) nd ng ( b ) ds th 3% of ch ve ed .
ts ( c ) nd ( d ) ow he nt ts th 3% of ch ve ed .
is a q
q ) ix nd d is a al ix .
es et al .
( 23 ) st al ds or ng he nk nd de at he al nk or
he ts om on 23 re ed ng ch a ed nk el th p
se ta is p se is ve a ar er t to he ta .
23 al ic nt is he da re , in gy th da , es an on of a on ce ix , g i j rs om ch ss .
is an lt in a le on in ce or es th a ll le ze .
er , he on an se a le se in as if he es re ot on .
in a rd ng ic nt is ( da ) es a ss ve re by ng nt ce es .
in a ar er he da el of 23 an be ed by ng he on of a on ce rm , g
is es he ce re
ov yi j
i is he ce ix or ss i .
he or ty is ow al to
by ng is el nd ng to rg ni di y ic nt is ( da ) is ed .
a on of da , ch we ll al
23 al ed nt is
it is ll wn at da an rm ly if he on of a on in - ss ce ix is ed , le da ly es a er le ze ( ld nd al , 23 ) .
a ll le ze es a ce ix to be ed ch is se to ar nd ce ve ht is ed on he ns ng to ll es .
on as en ly ul in is rt of ly - ed se em ( on ( 23 ) , an ( 23 ) ) .
an ( 23 ) ts he ng on ch .
et si ni be he in ss le ce ix or ss i nd et ni is ed or da .
a se en he wo es an be ed by ng he in - ss ce ix
n is he ed ce ix ch is ed or da le si
en s
23 s nd ni 23
a nd el of on , ly ge ds he ty ix , is ed gh
re q is he on of he ce .
g is ed as he in - ss ce ix or he th ss .
an ls is ch ed nt is ( da ) .
da as en wn to rm th da nd da in a ge ty of ns .
a on to al ed nt is ( da ) an be ed ng he ol -
ng ce re
ov yi j
si j g
is ed as in ( 23 ) .
he ce of 23 nd 23 is de ng ss - on .
ng ss - on to he da el is ly ly ve .
er , in he da ng , an ic te ws or a ly er on ( an , 23 ) .
is te an be ed in he da ng by ng he da el , ng he ng g i js as q al ta nd ng da to te 23 nd 23 , nd ly ng he da el th 23 nd 23 ed .
da ns th da nd da as ub ls .
by ng th 23 nd 23 al to ro he da 23 es he da el .
re , by ng 23 a al on of he st - ns er is ed re an on is
23 nd 23
el is ed .
le ng 23
ed to he st ss an , in an ce .
we ve ed a od , ch we ll al ar nt is ( da ) , or iz - ng ar nt is to al ta .
da es ll he al da ls , ng a ow - al al ry of he ta , nd on of ew es .
en he al ta ve en ed er a ge er of me ts he re es ar ts to he ng od ed in on 23 .
er , en ly ts of he on re le he da ch an ll ce le es le he ng od ls ly .
da an so be ed in a er of ys .
a ed nk on an be ed en he ta re ry se nd a ic on an be ed en an on of a on ce ix is te .
a ed on , ch is a se en da nd da , is so le .
er le on , ch we ve ot ed , is to el us ce nd on in he or ms .
is ay ll ve he on cy of he od ed gh me ts ve en ed er ve to de te es .
ly , ng s 23 to ry ld ke it le to ce he nt ,
l t ts
in rn ( 23 ) ws es ch as ch es at , if a ve is ed at ll me ts , ov 23 ( b ) to de a re of he nt of on st gh ng ns .
if s 23 as ed to ry is on ld no er be le .
he rs ld ke to nk he or nd es or ny ve ns .
or ie as ly ed by ts om he al ce on nd he al es of th .
