th tr to ma se of th no of te co an se wi th wi , wi wo of in re , ca , an lt ha to de of wi an ov se of pr .
th re st st is th mo of th ( my in ) st be th de a li pr ap to te ca is an in re pr .
th wi al em in th di of th bo th is th fo of th re .
le to cl te us su ve ma by th jo pr a th fo au le of te ca mo th ha be re sh to be ve su .
at th sa ti , th ap pr is ba on a ra ro li ge of ( wh ap is ) a la - de ta : to te cl ( tc ) .
th re is tw : on th on ha , a le th , ba on st le pr an re , th av th li - ti of th st em ty of mo te cl re an on th ot ha , th ap of a na li mo , th ba - of - wo re - ti , to li ob ( i . e . , th do ) th st ac im ac .
se go re fo re th bo
wh yo ca me wh yo ar sp ab , an ex it in nu , yo kn so ab it bu wh yo ca me it , wh yo ca ex it in nu , yo kn is of a me an un ki : it ma be th be of kn , bu yo ha sc in yo th ad to th st of sc .
12 st le th ap to te cl jo bo pr th ap of a st le mo , su ve ma ( sv ) ( va 12 ) , to th pr of te ca .
as th au em fr th be of th bo , it af no on th as , an no on em nd or im id , bu al th as .
th bo
vo 12 , nu 12
is th re of th au ph . d .
th , an th is st re in it ov
th or co of th ph . d .
th is th sp ap of sv an so th an al no de fo ( bu no li to ) te ca .
th au di th bo in fo pa : no , th , me , an al .
no in th pr an su ex ap to au te ca .
fi , in ch 12 , fe re me ar di , fr ba of wo to mu or se ju fe .
th , fo tr - di me fo le th ca fu ba ( tz an ha 12 ) , ro ( ro 12 ) , k - ne ne ( ya 12 ) , an de - si tr ( qu 12 ) ar pr in th sa ch .
in th ch ( th is , ve ea in th bo ) a sp no of pe is de .
it is ex as a fu of th ca er ( i . e . , th nu of mi be th sy ou an th go st ) .
no ho th is a bi to th en ma , as di be .
fi , th ba de fo sv ar gi ( ch 12 ) .
th pr a ge mo fo tc th is ba on th di pr of ( ba of ) wo .
th re in an ab no of ta ca - ti ( tc ) co th le of wh vi sv de fr th fo pr ( ch 12 ) .
mo , th tc co ha an in na , as it is ba on th av of a la se of tr ex : un ce as - ti on th tr ma , th tc re ar li se by an sv wi a co am of er ( or lo in pr ac ) .
ac , ch 12 an me fo es th pr ac of th ta sv .
th ta kn em in th tr ex pr co in ab th tr er , an fo re fr st le th ( e . g . , va 12 ) ( or ne in by us va re as in ) ar di em - pl he as an up bo on th te er ( i . e . , th er of th ge ac as me ov te da ) .
me di th co te fo in th tc fu by me of sv .
th is rs do in th tr of in ap to tc : tr ex ar us to in th ma ma hy th se po fr ne ex in a bi se .
th em ev pe - ma ov th we - kn be da se th vi of th sv in ( ch 12 ) .
in ch 12 th no of tr sv ( va 12 ) is in .
it is th in ta th ex a co se of te ex as a bi fo bu th ma ma hy .
su an ap ha se an wi fo of ac le ( e . g . , co - tr ( bl an mi 12 ) ) , wh ev du le is de fr pi of mo or le we te ev ( e . g . , in fe sp ar us as se in on ho to sa tr ex in co - tr ) .
al an co me fo th ap of th pr re ar th re in th fo pa , al .
in ch 12 an 12 , ef al fo tr in an tr sv ar na pr , wi re to th so pl sv , an ( no ) si ef of th au
12 em gr a po th th bo ha gr me , as mu sp is gi no on to th an ex - me as , bu to an at to em as su ve ma as a ge le th fo tc .
gr fo re on la - sc da is al
at wh po .
it is ca ou ov th ta be co : a co of re ne ( re - 12 ) , a co of me te ( oh ) , an a se of ma cl we pa ( th we co ) . 12 th ev is al us to de an ab mo of wh a ta te ca co is an ho it is le by a sv .
th no of tc co tr to ca ex th .
th tw as ar ve im , as th re ca be un th la se of ( of ma co ) th no ag em da an al va pr th re of th th ag th ev de fr re co .
fo ex , in se ( es fo a co li re ) ar th in wh ma no , su as li se - bi , tr er , an th tc co it , ar di vi es ag th be da ( e . g . , se 12 of ch 12 ) .
al te da ca be co ex sa , tc be ar a ra pr so of in - ma ab th di an li pr of wo .
no th su co th an em an ar ra in th li .
th re is an at to re ir ( of to mu fo on em pe me - su ) an ai ( mo of ta to th of le wi we po fo la - sc em as ) .
fi , as la - sc da an is re in th st of se nl ta ( an no on tc ) , th bo is a go ex fo re an pr in em la pr .
12 th , ap , an im of su ve ma co as re no ju to me , bu al to th an ef im - me of sv is a po as of th bo .
th bo he in bu a ra ri pi of th el .
in ma is pr in a co an th we - fo wa .
th th le th ba on ea re fr va ( 12 ) is de , an th ha a va ef on th me co .
al th as of th ap of sv to tc ar th fr in a
ex ar th di of be da in se 12 of ch 12 , in wh th es us to up - bo th ca er ar co - pa to th me as ca ou ov th be co .
al ev sp pa of th es th ra qu ab th qu an ap of th th ( e . g . , di of th tr se , th er em in tr ma ) is an co ag th be da .
th an es ar th co to th ef me .
th is ve re fo an in in em an of li da .
12 ex ve ef on of th co of jo th is th ef sp in ma sv le fo te cl fe .
in sv , th in is ba on th so of a qu op pr in wh th si of th ma is qu in th nu of av tr ex an th di va de on th ch of th ke fu . 12 th pr he ar re to th it ev of
12 se de at th si , re : ht : / / ww . re . at . co / le / re , 12 ke fu ar us to ma th pr fr it so fe sp to a ne fe sp wh li se is en .
ty ke fu k ar po , e . g . , k ( ( ci : 12 ) x1 , ( ci : 12 ) x1 ) = ( ( ci : 12 ) x1 ( ci : 12 ) x1 + 12 ) d .
vo 12 , nu 12
th ma , wh ca be co co ef or st in me ( fo hi va of n ) .
th au ca on th id of wo on de ma of sm si , pr su by os , fr , an gi ( 12 ) .
fi , du an it of th al , a su of th va is xe so th th cu re - ev is ca ou on th re su of th va , ca th wo se .
th di va in th wo se de a sp bi fo th al at ea st .
th se of a go wo se li th co of ea st an in th co sp .
th , a se op cr is di th is re to th us of su ve ( sv ) .
sv ar th ex cl to th se hy , su th th ar at di d ( th ma ) fr it .
as th hy co de on on sv , an al ab to wo fr th be on ju th sv wo be th mo ef .
th se of sv is cl he , as th po wi th tr da se is un at th be .
th au su a se al th pr ( an th ne ) no - sv am th tr da ac to th be in th pr h st .
da le ou of th an ar ch a po .
th op co ar ch af a so fo th su ha be bu .
in ca an in so ha be fo , op is re , al it is re th th la pa so fo .
al mo de wo ha be be , 12 em an is th di at le .
th im of th di fa on th le ti ar re as th ha be me ag be da co ( se 12 of ch 12 ) .
st fa aw ?
no ev th co ca be co , an no ev th ca be co co
12 wh is th la ? af a fe wo sp di po te re fo th ha be ad in th tc li , th au co ne ch ot th ba of wo .
th re is is se th th bo .
th au - th in co ju on le an ca ac ac wi ba of wo .
ac to th un fa th a te is a li ob , a th re to it cl sh at le in an an al a li di is , th st of re di in te of li - gu pr .
un , in th bo no em an of di fe re is ev at .
as a re , wh em nd do no t we wi th es , we ex ar gi .
fo ex , in ta 12 ( ch 12 , se 12 ) , li se ( i . e . , se of hy wi a li ke an wi no co - bu fr sl va co fo th no in tr da ) is di ov th re ne an th oh ab .
th fa th in so ca li se is no ac is qu ex in te of du ( in ? ) do - um or in cl re hu er .
no th th re co is fu of li du do ( e . g . , ta wi lo li of nu an al no te at al se , fo ex , th ea ca ) .
mo ,
12 th ac of th em da ma av by th au in th se is lo th in ot
pa of th bo .
th ph se to fa co ap li ro or sv : me ob wi an fe se ( th in mo no to ) su - ge no in in pe ( se , fo ex , ex di by ba an mo ( 12 ) ) .
ev , th re fo mi be em ev an th th li in th fa th so is mi fr th la , wh in fa is ba on a ra ro ap .
se se ha wh th sp ba on ba of wo is no ex en .
th st de on th ta cl ( i . e . , th un kn do ) an on th qu of th av tr ma .
ba of wo pr st ev in a la se of tc ta bu do no su ex th re in in al ca .
th va of ca pe of sv ac di co ( e . g . , ab 12 br - ev po on re bu 12 br - ev po fo oh ) is fu ev th al op im by sv is ve po ( i . e . , is ab to bu a ve go pr fu wh th un fe sp is ) , th is st so mi .
so ot di ex wh fu im sh be lo fo .
la pr co be em in al ca in wh th ga be th be ba - of - wo pe an th ex op is no tr .
12 wh is a tc ? th co of tc , di in ch 12 , se to be a co ar wi no cl re to th ta ta .
a tc is fu de in te of th di pr of ( a se of ) wo th re it .
no th th pr ar ex th on re by th st le cr fo sv .
a tc is de as a se of wo cl de by th co av fr gu in th tr da .
su a re se de by th re go ( i . e . , st le ) , an no ot st ev is br fo ex fo fr gu in th be da .
th is in fa an em va of th le th fo wh ba of wo an th di in te ar su to in th sv th mi ca er .
th on im , ho , th su le vi sv is a va of th tc no .
th re is no tr , as th la do no re an th ex of wh le fo te ca is .
12 wh pe ? mo of th re in in re is ta to th ma of ut fu th ar op ( e . g . , ac in ca or re of do - me to qu ) .
an th is al th pe ad in pe ev ( lo 12 ) an in bu be .
th qu th ma se ar st : is th mi of ca er th en ta of te ca ? is it th on re fo ? is se hy th on in as of th pr , or sh mo po ex be le fr tr da ?
th bo su th cl fu ca be su bu fr ex - te tr da ( i . e . , ma cl do ) .
th ou of th le fr , ho , is ju a bo fu wo as a bl bo .
un , th au ne tr to gi an in of th ki of in in .
ar th we in by th sv me in so se ? ar th te so ev ou of th bl bo ? if we ar to co tw sv , ca we re ju on di in pe ? or sh we pe lo to ot as to me th us ? my fe is th ve li ha be do fo ev ho we sv re th cr as of th pr .
fo ex , ar th in co wi of th hy ( i . e . , di re to th it wo )
vo 12 , nu 12
li me el , di ma to le or se ph - no ? in th pe , pe me th ar co or pr of cl er ar li , or ev mi .
re sh av th te - ti of re to me op of th pr / re tr - of .
li ju fe ha th in be of su na ex of th sy in , al ev us do no ac fo th .
in my vi , th ( li ) in of di as of sv le in tc is an im - ta re di .
th st of th re be tr ma ( as re un a li pe ) an th ch of ke fu op fo th ta is a pr re li .
la re
su ve ma ar wi ad to fo se ta ( e . g . , ku an ma 12 ) .
th se to re ef th in of se fu - ti fr tr da .
th sv in se ( of wh th tr on is ju a de ) is a st ap to tc in , an th bo is pr .
al it le a la se of op pr , th bo mu be se as a re co in th ar of ma le fo na la .
it is a po me of ge ac wi th an me kn fo te cl .
un , ob ga hi af it co as a ha in co on ma le fo te cl an nl , bu th wa ou of th au ai .
in cu re an pr , th th pr in th bo an it em gr ar im co to th ar of em na la pr - ce .
fi , it em ne id ab le th lo fo ap to ne nl ta .
cl of nl qu in qu an an pa ac - ti fo ad in ex ar ju tw ex in wh a tr sv ap is cu be ap .
se , th bo em an ap to em re th is ve el .
so th in is he sy - ic mi wi re da , wh mo fo th rs ar te fo in th la .
th im me an ap ac sa mu ab th ef re by el wa of do re .
