se ng to ke se of he on of al nt nd cs in he ld , ld ld of on al , on , nd ng ve to al en th an ng ea of ms .
he ly ge ry is at st of em ( lf ed ) ll ve at ng a ly ed ch to xt on is an ng ch em .
is ll so ge in he on of he ok at is he us of is ew .
ng to fy ts ng rt or es by en ms es a ry or ic ng of xt on ls at as en ly wn to be ry ul .
at he me me , he ch ed is ed on a er gh ic on of ( at ly is ) a ge - nt sk : ic xt on ( tc ) .
he lt is ld : on he ne nd , a ng ry , ed on al ty es nd ts , at ds he ta - ns of he ng sm al of st xt on h; nd on he er nd , he on of a ve ic el , he ag - of - ds ta - on , to ic ts ( i . e . , he ts ) at ll es ve cy .
al od ns or ng he ok
en ou an re at ou re ng ut , nd ss it in rs , ou ow ng ut t; ut en ou ot re it , en ou ot ss it in rs , ur ge is of a er nd ry nd : it ay be he ng of ge , ut ou ve ly in ur ts ed to he ge of ce .
23 al ng ry ed to xt on ss ok ts he on of a al ng el , rt or es ( ms ) ( ik 23 ) , to he em of xt on .
as he or es om he ng of he ok , it ts ot ly al ts , nd ot ly al gs or on as , ut ll se ts .
he ok
me 23 , er 23
is he ts of he rs ph . d .
is , nd is is ly ed in ts ll
he al on of he ph . d .
is is he ic on of ms nd me al nd ic ty ed or ( ut ot ed to ) xt on .
he or es he ok to ur ts : on , ry , ds , nd ms .
on es he em nd ys ng es to ic xt on .
st , in er 23 , re on ds re ed , om ag of ds to ds or ly ed es .
en , ur ra - al ds or ng he on ve es ( as nd nn 23 ) , io ( io 23 ) , k - st rs ( ng 23 ) , nd ci - on es ( an 23 ) re ed in he me er .
in is er ( at is , ry ly in he ok ) a ic on of ce is ed .
it is ed as a on of he on or ( i . e . , he er of es en he em me nd he ld rd ) .
ce ow is is a as to he re er , as ed ow .
ly , he ic ns or ms re en ( er 23 ) .
ry es a al el or tc at is ed on he al es of ( gs of ) ds .
is ts in an ct on of et za - on ( at ) pt he ty of ch ia ms es om ir al es ( er 23 ) .
er , he at pt as an ve re , as it is ed on he ty of a ge et of ng es : er in mp - ns on he ng al , he ts ts re ly le by an vm th a ed nt of or ( or ss in ve cy ) .
ly , er 23 es ds or ng he ve cy of he et vm .
he sk ge ed in he ng es es te on ut he ng or , nd al ts om al ty ry ( e . g . , ik 23 ) ( or ly ed by ng ks ts as on ) re ly em - ed re as an er nd on he ng or ( i . e . , he or of he on ed as ed er st ta ) .
ds es he re ue or ng he tc ns by ns of ms .
is is st ne in he on of ve es to tc : ng es re ed to ce he um in ne at es ve om ve es in a ry ng .
he al od or - ce er ee ll - wn ng ta ms he ty of he vm on ( er 23 ) .
in er 23 he on of ve ms ( ik 23 ) is ed .
it is he ve sk at ts a nt et of ng es as a as or ng he um in ne .
ch an ch as al es th ms of ve ng ( e . g . , co - ng ( um nd ll 23 ) ) , in ce ng ng is ed om es of re or ss ak st ce ( e . g . , nt re es re ed as ve on on ow to le ng es in co - ng ) .
ms nd te ds or he on of he us ts re en ed in he th rt , ms .
in rs 23 nd 23 , nt ms or ng ve nd ve ms re ly ed , th ce to he re rm ht , er ( ry ) de ct of he rs
23 ly ng a ul ry he ok as at it , as ch ce is en ot ly to al nd ri - al ts , ut to an pt to ly ss rt or es as a al ng ry or tc .
ng al ts on ge - le ta is ys
ed re le .
it is ed ut er he et ng ra : a on of rs ws ( rs - 23 ) , a on of al ts ( ed ) , nd a et of ly ed eb es ( he kb on ) . 23 is ce is so ed to ne an ct el of at a et xt on pt is nd ow it is le by a vm .
he on of at pt es to re ly is .
se wo ts re ry nt , as he er an er nd he ge et of ( en ly ex ) al ns st al ta nd so te ly he ts of he ry st he ce ed om al ns .
or le , ng ns ( ly or a al cs er ) re se in ch al ns , ch as ar ra - ty , ng or , nd he at pt lf , re ed ia on st he ng ta ( e . g . , on 23 of er 23 ) .
gh st ta ot be ed ve es , tc ks re a er us ce of or - on ut he al nd ic es of ds .
ce at ch ed al nd al es re re in he re .
he lt is an pt to le ir ( en oo ch ed on al ce ea - es ) nd ai ( re en ed to es of ng th er es or ge - le al nt ) .
ly , as ge - le ta is is ed in he dy of al lp ks ( nd ot ly tc ) , he ok is a od le or rs nd rs in al ge ng .
23 ry , on , nd on of rt or es ng ts ed ot st to ds , ut so to ry nd nt le - on of ms is a ve ct of he ok .
he ok ps in ng a er ch re of he ld .
ry er is ed in a ve nd ly ll - ed ay .
en he ng ry ed on er ts om ik ( 23 ) is ed , nd is as a le ct on he al on .
ll he ts of he on of ms to tc re us ed in a
es re he on of ng ta in on 23 of er 23 , in ch al rs ed to er - nd he on or re om - ed to ir es as ed ut er he ng ns .
st ry ic er of he rs at es ns ut he ty nd ty of he ry ( e . g . , on of he ng et , he or ed in ng al ) is ed ly st he ng ta .
he al es re us ed to he ve es .
is is ry nt or ne ed in al is of ic ta .
23 ss us cy ne of he ns of ss is is he rt nt in ng vm ng or xt on le .
in ms , he on is ed on he on of a ic on em in ch he ze of he ix is ic in he er of le ng es nd he nt es nd on he ce of he el ns . 23 he ms re re ed to he ve on of
23 ee ls at se es , ly : tp : / / ww . ch . tt . om / se / ml , 23 el ns re ed to ap he em om ts ce re ce to a ew re ce re ar ty is ed .
al el ns k re al , e . g . , k ( ( id : 23 ) 23 , ( id : 23 ) 23 ) = ( ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) 23 + 23 ) d .
me 23 , er 23
he ix , ch ot be ly ed ly or ed in ry ( or gh es of n ) .
he or es on he ea of ng on ed es of er ze , ly ed by na , nd , nd si ( 23 ) .
st , ng an on of he hm , a et of he es is ed so at he nt re - on is ed ut on he ng et of he es , ed he ng et .
he nt es in he ng et ne a ic as or he hm at ch ep .
he on of a od ng et ts he ty of ch ep nd es he ce ed .
en , a nd on on is ed at is ed to he se of rt rs ( vs ) .
vs re he es er to he ng ne , ch at ey re at ce d ( he in ) om it .
as he ne ts nd ly on vs , an hm le to rk om he ng on st he vs ld be he st nt .
he on of vs is ly ic , as ir on in he ng ta et is wn at he ng .
he or ts a on hm at ts ( nd en ts ) on - vs ng he ng ta ng to ir or in he us h ps .
ta ft ut of he is re ed a ri .
he ty ns re ed er a on or he em as en lt .
in se an id on as en nd , on is un , gh it is ed gh he st al on nd .
gh re ls ld ve en al , 23 al is is en ed at th .
he ts of he nt rs on he ng es re ed as ey ve en ed st ng ta ns ( on 23 of er 23 ) .
ay ar ay ?
ot ng at ts an be ed , nd ot ng at an be ed ts
23 re is he ge ? er a ew ds nt ng le xt on ms at ve en ed in he tc re , he or ly ts es er an gs of ds .
is al ue is ry ut he ok .
he au - or ad es st on ty nd on cy ed th gs of ds .
ng to he le ct at a xt is a ic ct , a ry ed to ts on ld at st de an is ng a ic at is , he dy of ns nt in ms of in - ic es .
ly , in he ok no al is of nt re ns is en ed .
as a lt , er al gs do ot t ll th al es , ak ns re en .
or le , in le 23 ( er 23 , on 23 ) , ar ty ( i . e . , ty of ne th a ar el nd th no ri - on om ck es ng or he se in ng ta ) is ed er he rs ws nd he ed ts .
he ct at in me es ar ty is ot ed is ly ed in ms of us ( id ? ) oc - ts or nt ns ng an rs .
te at he rs on is ll of ly us ts ( e . g . , es th ng ts of rs nd st no xt at l; ee , or le , he rn ry ) .
er ,
23 he cy of he al ta de le by he or in is on is er an in er
ts of he ok .
se na em to or se es ke os or ms : es ed ut ny re on ( us ng st ic ns ) ug - st al es in es ( ee , or le , ts ed by li nd ti ( 23 ) ) .
ly , he on or es en al ce nd he ry es in he ct at ng is ng om he er , ch in ct is ed on a er gh on .
ty ms er en he ce ed on gs of ds is ot ve gh .
is ly ds on he et ss ( i . e . , he ng ge in ) nd on he ty of he le ng al .
gs of ds de ng ce in a ge et of tc ks ut do ot ly ss he ed on in ll es .
he ty of on es of ms ss nt ra ( e . g . , ut 23 ak - en nt on rs ut 23 ak - en nt or ed ) is er ce at gh on ed by ms is ry ul ( i . e . , is le to ld a ry od on on er he ng re ce is ) , re is ll ng ng .
me er ns st re er nt ld be ed or .
ge ng ld be ed in ll es in ch he ap en he st ag - of - ds ce nd he ed um is ot al .
23 at is a at ? he pt of at , ed in er 23 , ms to be a ex ct th no ar ip to he et sk .
a at is ly ed in ms of he al es of ( a et of ) ds at nt it .
te at se es re ly he es ed by he al ty ia or ms .
a at is ed as a et of rd es ed by ir on ge cy es in he ng ta .
ch a on ms ed by he ch al ( i . e . , al ty ) , nd no er ng ce is ht rd pt or cy es in he ng ta .
is is in ct an al on of he ty ry or ch gs of ds nd ir ns in ts re nt to ce se ms at ze on rs .
is ly es , er , at ul ng ia ms is a on of he at on .
he se is ot ue , as is er es ot nt ny al on of at ng or xt on is .
23 ch es ? st of he ch in on al is ed to he on of ty ns at re al ( e . g . , cy in on or ce of cu - ts to es ) .
nd is is so he ve ed in ce on ( ee 23 ) nd in ng ks .
he ns at ke se re ll : is he on of on or he re et of xt on ? is it he ly ch us ? is ng es he ly ng ct of he em , or ld re ul ns be ed om ng ta ?
is ok ts at on ns an be ly lt om ex - ve ng ta ( i . e . , ly ed ts ) .
he me of he ng rk , er , is st a an on ng as a ck ox .
ly , he or er es to ve an on of he nd of on ed .
re he ts ed by he vm ul in me se ? re ey ng ng en de of he ck ox ? if we re to re wo ms , an we ly st on es in ce ? or ld we ps ok to er ts to re ir ss ? my ng is at ry le as en ne or ng ow ll ms nt he al ts of he ms .
or le , re he ed ts wi of he ne ( i . e . , ns ed to he th rd )
me 23 , er 23
ly ul ts , ly le rd al or ic he - na ? in is ve , ce es at re ts or es of on rs re ed , or en ng .
ch ld id he ta - on of ng to ly on of he on / ll de - ff .
ly ed es ve he nt et of ng al ns of he em on , gh on ly es ot nt or em .
in my ew , he ( ic ) on of nt ts of vm ng in tc is an or - nt ch on .
he dy of he ip en ng ls ( as ed er a ic ve ) nd he ce of el ns al or he sk is a ng ch ne .
te ns
rt or es re ly ed ay or al ks ( e . g . , do nd to 23 ) .
ey em to ce ly he on of on nc - ns om ng ta .
he vm ve ng ( of ch he ve ne is st a on ) is a rd ch to tc on , nd is ok is of .
gh it es a ge et of en ms , he ok st be en as a nt on in he ea of ne ng or al ge .
it is a ul ns of ng ed th al nd al ge or xt on .
ly , us ps ly ct ts ss as a ok in es on ne ng or xt on nd lp , ut is as de of he rs ms .
in nt ch nd ce , he ry ed in is ok nd ts al ng re nt ns to he ea of al al ge ro - ng .
st , it es ew as ut ng at ok or ns to ew lp ks .
on of nl ns in on ng nd rn si - on or ve on on re st wo es in ch a ve vm ch is ly ng ed .
nd , he ok es an ch to al ch at is ry nt .
id al on is re at - ly ed th al ta , re ns or he st re ly nd in he er .
he ve al nd ve ts ay ch ut he ss le by nt ys of ng ch .
