we pr an au al pr wh ma th di in re le by se lo di re ex in a si , co gl co sy fo th or da sp .
ou al ca be ap to an se of ex , ea of wh pr a lo - di lo re of a hi - di in .
un re ef to co su mo by mo th ob fu ( 12 , 12 ) , ou al is in af tr an ap an ef ei to po - pr th tr mo .
th po - pr ha no lo op an th si of th sy - te it mu so sc wi th nu of lo mo ra th th nu of or da po , ma it mo ef th mo - fr al su as is ( 12 ) or ll ( 12 ) .
12 in : lo vs .
gl di re be de mo , an im go of un le is to di co - pa , in re of hi - di da .
if th da li on a sm lo di ma , th an ex en is th co in to th ma - if .
th pr of de su co is di re .
li di re me su as pr co an an fa an - si ar ea to tr bu ca ca th st of cu ma .
mi of th si un mo ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) ha be us to pe lo di re , an ca pr go de mo fo cu ma , bu un su mi ca do di re .
th do no de a si , co - en lo - di co sy fo th da si th is no pr fo th lo co of ea co to ag .
ro et al ( 12 ) re pr a mo wh pe gl co of lo co sy in a mi of fa an ( mf ) .
th mo is tr by ma - im th li of th da , wi an ad va pe te to en th in co of th fa an to ag .
wh th mo ca tr of mo th da an ha co lo co sy , it re a us gi tr - of pa , tr is qu in ( al ( 12 ) de an im tr - in al fo a mo co mo ) , an it ha qu se lo mi pr ( me li ll ( 12 ) or is ( 12 ) ha to be us fo in ) .
in th pa we de a no , au wa to al th hi re us by ea co of a mi of di re in a si gl re of th da th sp .
gi an al tr mi , th al is ac by ap an ei to a ma co fr th in re of th mi co .
ou me is ef , si to im , an ha no lo op in it op no an le ra or an sc .
12 th lo li co al
su we ha a se of da po gi by th ro of
- di sp , wh we as ar sa fr a
we ap th ma co us im di em sp .
su al th we ha al tr , or ha be th re pr a% di - gi , a mi of " si in re ( ' fo da po ) ' as we as a re ' de ho re th is .
th sa /
lo di re .
th th re re of
an ca be ob , fo ex , us a ga ne in a mi of ex , or th po pr in a pr ne .
no th th ma co an in re ne no ha th sa nu of di .
gi th da , in re , an re , ou al au al th va hi re in a si gl co sy .
tw ke id mo th me .
fi , to us a co co fu wh un mi is
at at th de gl co .
se , to re th gl co $ an re de on th da
th le th st of th mi mo to re an re th ef si of th op pr .
in ef , ra th wo wi in da po , we wo wi la gr of po be to pa su .
' on th th lo re
to th to ob it gu at th gl co .
th na gl is ob by av th gu us th re as we :
gi an in we rs pa th gl co in te of $ an th ap a li pr , ea lo mo in it in co $ an of 12 is th k th en of & = , wh .
fo co , we wi wr th do of $ an th no de th ma ( 12 ) be a sy of li eq ( 12 ) wi xe
is th k th co of 12 $ , e in a si ne in
$ , an e th ro of an un pa
is a bi .
th pr is de in gu 12
to si ou ca , we ha ve th is an in ma fr
fi 12 : ob gl co fr da vi re - we lo co .
is li in ea
$ an th un pa
is hi no - li si it de on th mu - ca of re an in co wh ar in tu no - li re to
th ke as , wh we ha em by re - ex ma be th lo re an th gl co ' an th im th da ' we no co de
' ab , is th th $ .
cr , ho , th ma be th = .
fo th we is co in
ad us a co as we , an th is a un op th ca be co ef us a va of me .
th is st tr if we al ha fe co co ca wh th co an co ar bo qu is pa ap si we
no th si
th th in pr of th mi mo .
ac to so gi co fu
is li in
in pa su
th gi :
de th co an co , an le
ca us an ei to nd th op
is th tr op .
th ma
ar ty ob fr th an su th es ge am th .
th so to th
co mi ab is gi by th sm ge ei
be , we in a co fu ba on th lo li em ( ll ) al - ri of ro an sa ( 12 ) .
we ca th re al lo li co - ti ( ll ) .
th id of ll is to pr th sa lo li re be
in pa th co of
ar gi by th ge ei .
we id fo ea po
' an th co th or da po ' an th mi
su to th co /
th we ar un
wi re to an ca be so fo ef us co le sq ( si so fo
th we su th lo ge re th da po
ar to mi th sa co
to th ne , he to pr th re am th co bu wi re to
is in to tr an ro of
in or to br th de we en th fo co :
is a ve of 12 s .
fo th ch , th co fu an co ab be :
, an sc as
wi co an co ma
12 th un ca wh th nu of ne is la th th di of th da , si re of th no of th we on ag ma th un .
as sh pr , th so to th pr is gi by th sm ge th ar or to th ve is th sm ge ei , co to an ei of 12
he th so to th pr is
- , we ne to nd ei
to sa
fo ,
ll al al :
of th ge ei sy
gi by th
no th th ed si of th ma
, co lo li re we
sm ge ei in .
, ob a lo re fo ea su an ea da po
tr or re a pr - tr mi of lo di re .
ap th mi to fo th ma wi $ an ca fi th ei co to th sm le be a ma wi co fo by th nd to th ro of as al we re th gl ma co as $ wh sc wi th nu of co an di of th lo .
as a re , so fo th re bu no wi th nu of da po + al we is mu mo ef th th or ll co ( or th .
in ef , we of is ) wh re so an ei sy of ed si + ha le th mi of lo mo to co la gr of po to an wo on wi th gr ra th th or da po .
no ho th st re de th ne of th or th co of th we in th wo ca .
da po , wh sc as co wi ll al yi a mi of no fa an ov th gl
12 st ei .
$ an fa lo 12 th fa an ha me 12 , wi th # , we ca in th re an th po me gi an gl co $ ov th la sp of ea fa an .
if ou or lo di re - $ , we ca no in th hi di me er al su co da po wh co to th gl co
th al us to pe op - er li vi an in us th gl co sy .
th is th me we us to in th im in gu 12 an 12 in th ne se .
wh ge ei we se
12 ex re us mi of fa an th al co we ha de is ap to an mi of lo di - si re .
in ou ex , we ha us th mo ba su mo : a mi th fa an in th mi de a pr -
of fa an ( mf ) ( 12 ) .
th # bi li ma fr a la va
th mo as th th da ma is lo li an it is th lo st th is ca by ea fa an .
th no - li in th da ma is ha by pa mu fa an to , ea ha a lo li re .
to th da wi ad ga no .
mf ar tr in an un wa by ma th ma lo li of th ob da , an pa es is ty do us th em al
12 ou ex , we in th pa by dr th me fr th gl co - an of th da an se th fa to sm ra va .
we al si th fa an to sh th sa sp no co al th is no es to th pr .
fi 12 : ll on th s cu ( a ) .
th ar 12 fa an in th mi ( b ) , ea wi 12 la di .
ea di re on of th wi th tw bl li be th fa lo .
af al by ll ( c ) , th cu is su un it is al po to re al th or da sp mo ( d ) .
fi 12 : un th tr cu .
we ge 12 no po fr th cu .
th we t an mf wi 12 co wi 12 la di ea ( a ) , bu al th in a 12 sp ( b ) .
we us 12 ne to re - st ea da po .
$ co on th da
th lo re of
as th re .
th fa an ge
$ , a mf tr on
th fa an ge ) as th
to ma li ca le a gl co sy fo th ma th is co ac ev fa an .
he th is a pe mo on wh to ap , wh we us th
si th is no co re th va hi va au al .
na , we us th me of po pr th th
we il ll on tw sy to pr to gi so in ab ho it wo .
th rs pr is th s cu gi in gu 12 ( a ) .
an mf tr on 12 po sa un fr th ma wi ad no ( b ) is ab to mo th li st of th cu lo , ho th in co of th fa an ar no al pr .
we ap ll to th lo re an al th in a 12 sp ( c ) .
wh so fo lo we , we us 12 ne to re ea da po .
we se th ll ha su un th s cu on th 12 sp .
fu , gi th co tr pr by ll , we ca re al th la sp of th mf ( d ) .
th is do by de di in th va la sp wh ge tr to th sa di in th gl sp .
to em th to ad of al re in a sp of hi di th th lo co us by ea su , we al tr a mf on da sa fr a tr cu , as sh in gu 12 ( a ) .
th tr is a ci wi a kn in 12 .
as gu 12 ( b ) sh , ll co th mo in a ri of lo to fa to th or da .
we ap ll to mf tr on se of re im be to co fr a co ma wi fe de of fr .
we st fa im of a si pe un va po an ex ch an ha di fr th mn da .
af tr th mf , we ap ll to al th mo .
th fa mo we al in a 12 sp as sh in gu 12
th rs di ap to de
fi 12 : a ma of re of th fa wh th gl co ar sp .
co de th li of th co .
no th so re ar th ed of th ma ar no go be th mo is ex fr th tr im to re of lo li .
a mf wi 12 co an 12 la di ea is us .
it is tr on 12 im
ar ca us 12 ne .
ch in po , wh th se de ch in ex .
th di mo we al in a 12 sp .
fi 12 ( to ) sh ma of re of th di .
th rs di ap to de th sl of ea di , th se th fa of ea di , an th th th re si of th up to lo lo .
fi 12 ( bo ) sh ho ll ca sm in be an tw di .
in pa , th rs ro in be le an ri sl di , th se be fa an th di , th th be th an th li st , an th fo be ha a la bo lo an la to lo .
12 di an co pr wo on no di re ha us em ei a pa - me ap , wh ex co a ( so pr ) ma be th hi - di an lo - di sp , or a no ap wh me nd lo - di im co to hi - di da po bu wi pr mo or hi va .
co to th gl co mo ( 12 ) , th cl pa ap to ou , ou al ca be un as po co , in wh th la sp ar co af th ha be t to da .
by de th da tt an co pr we ga ef an av lo op in th co ph .
fu , si we ar ju ma li wh tt th or mi to da , we ca us a wh ra of kn te to es lo mi , an im ef in th rs ph as we .
on th no si , ou ap ca be co to tw re al , ll
to it la sp , th na co mo wi al de a ( pr ) ma fr th wh da sp to th co em sp .
ou al al im up lo em or de mo by el th st to fu gl di re al wi re an mo - ca to th tr pr or co fu .
fo ex , us mi of fa an ( mf ) as a te ca , we sh ho ou al me ca al a mo pr su on fo de es to do co op on hi di da su as vi an in .
br ( 12 ) ha re pr an ap , si to ou , th co lo pa - me mo to ob a gl va no em fu .
li ll , hi ch me de a qu co fu an nd th op co di - re an ef .
ho , ch is ba on a co fu mu cl in sp to th or gl co mo an it in on lo mo ce on ea tr po , so it sc is th sa as th of ll an is .
in pr , br me ca be ex to wo wi fe lo mo an ou al pr ca be ap us th ch co ra th th ll co we ha pu he .
au al pr em a po bu of ov in - ti of lo mi mo .
ra th co th ou of su sy to be a si qu , su as a de es or a ex - we re , it is po to vi th as ne wh co hi - di in in a ve of in co fr ea su , ac by re .
as we ha sh , th vi ca le to ef an po al wh al se lo mo to le co gl re .
we th ge hi fo in an in di , br fr an ya le fo sh th da se , an th re fo he co .
