ba no mo
pe or , ca un
ye wh te , un co lo
re ke : ba me , pr pr , di pr ,
a ba no mo is a ba mo on an in ? ni - di pa sp .
th pa sp is ty ch as th se of al po - bl so fo a gi le pr .
fo ex , in a re pr th pa sp ca be th se of co fu , an in a de es - ma pr th sp ca co of al de .
a ba no mo us on a ? ni su of th av pa di to ex a ? ni sa of ob , wi th se of di ch de on th sa , su th th e ? ec co of th mo ( as me by th nu of di us ) ad to th da .
cl ad pr , su as no es an mo se , ca th be fo as ba in pr .
po ex of ba no mo in ga pr re , in wh th co st is re ? ne wi gr sa si , an di pr mi mo fo cl , wh ad th nu of cl to th co of th da .
ba no mo ha re be ap to a va of ma - ch le pr , in re , cl ? ca , cl , la va mo , se mo , im se , so se an gr in .
mo an ba
mo of ma le is co wi le an ap se of pa - ra wi a mo cl fr tr da .
th me le pr of de ap mo cl ar re to as mo se or mo ad .
th co im co fo ma le pr , ch ? y fo av of ov - ? tt an un - ? tt , bu al fo di of th ca an st un da .
ex of mo se - le an ad in : se th nu of cl in a cl pr , th nu of hi st in a hi ma mo , th nu
of la va in a la va mo , or th co of fe us in no re .
no mo co an ap to mo se an ad - ta , wh th si of mo ar al to gr wi da si .
th is as op to pa mo wh us a ? xe nu of pa .
fo ex , a pa ap to de es wo be to ? t a ga - si or a mi of a ? xe nu of ga by ma li .
a no ap wo be a pa wi es , wh ce a ga at ea ob ( an he us on me pa pe ob - ti ) .
an ex is th su ve ma wi a ga ke .
th re th sh th th de fu is a li co - ti of ga ra ba fu ce at ev in ve , an th ha a co th gr wi mo ob .
no me ha lo be po in cl ( no - ba ) st ( 12 ) .
th of pe - fo im in ap an , th th re fo su mo ar ty ha to pr th fo pa mo , ap th pr ha be es fo a wi ra of mo .
ba no me pr a ba fr fo mo se an ad us no mo .
a ba fo of no pr is no , si a ba mo de ? ne pr an po di on a si ? xe pa sp , bu th di - si of th pa sp in a no ap sh ch wi sa si .
th ba no so to th pr is to us an in ? ni - di pa sp , an to in on a ? ni su of th av pa on an gi ? ni da se .
th su ge gr wi th da se .
in th co of ba no mo , ¡° ? ni - di ca th be in as ¡° ? ni bu un di .
mo pr , a ba no mo is a mo th ( 12 ) co a ba mo on an in ? ni - di pa sp an ( 12 ) ca be ev on a ? ni sa in a ma th us on a ? ni su of th av pa to ex th sa .
we ma th ab de mo co in th ne se wh we de a nu of st ma le pr an th co - in ba no so .
as we wi se , th pa sp in ( 12 ) ty co of fu or of me , wh ( 12 ) is us ac by ma ou su di ov th pr .
ra fu an me , an mo ge pr di on in ? ni - di ra ob , ar ca st pr ex we wi en in ga pr , di pr an be pr .
ba no mo ar of na af th st pr th co - ta .
th ex ar th fo by th co , in fo co an re of th st pr us in ba no mo , ex , an is of co an co ra .
we co th ar wi fu di an a re
de fu ov da it x of th fo p ( x ) = ( ci : 12 ) k p ( x ) = ( ci : 12 ) p ( x| ) g ( ¦è ) d¦ , wh g = ( ci : 12 ) k
cl wi mi mo .
ba no ge of ? ni mi mo pr an ap fo es bo th nu of co in a mi mo an th pa of th in mi - tu co si fr da .
fi mi mo de ? ne a k= ¦ð ( x| ) , wh ¦ð is th mi pr an ¦è ar pa as wi co - ne k .
th de ca be wr in a no - st ma as an in : k= ¦ð is a di mi di en al th pa of th mi mo an ¦ä is a di di - tr ( at ) ce at ¦è .
ba no mi us mi di co of a co in ? ni nu of at in :
th gi ri to mi mo wi an in ? ni nu of co .
wh ap to a ? ni tr se , on a ? ni ( bu va ) nu of co wi be us to mo th da , si ea da it is as wi ex on co bu ea co ca be as wi mu da it .
in in th mo th au re bo th nu of co - ne to us an th pa of th co .
be ba , we ne a pr ov th mi di g , an th mo co pr to us is a di pr ( dp ) .
th re mi mo is ca a dp mi .
fo , a di pr dp ( ¦á , h ) pa by a co pa ¦á > 12 an a ba di h is a pr ov di ( pr - it me ) g su th , fo an ? ni pa a1 , .
, am of th pa sp , th in ra ve ( g ( a1 ) , .
, g ( am ) ) is di di wi pa ( ¦á ( a1 ) , .
, ¦á ( am ) ) ( se th th se fo a di of su in in th de ? ni ) .
it ca be sh th dr fr a dp wi be di di as gi in ( 12 ) .
th dp al in a di ov pa of in ca th ch re pr ( cr ) , wh di de th pr ov ho da it ar cl un th dp mi .
fo mo de on th dp an th cr , se dp en ( ? ) .
no re .
th ai of re is to in a co fu fr a tr se co of in - ou pa ( ( ti , xi ) ) n ap pa th fu us a ? ni nu of pa an at to in th pa fr da .
th pr ba no - pa ap to th pr is to de ? ne a pr di ov co - ti fu di by me of a ga pr ( gp ) .
as ex in gp en ( ? ) , a gp is a di on an in ? ni co of ra va xt , su th th jo di of ea ? ni su xt , .
, xt is a mu - ti ga .
a va xt ta by th va xt ca be re as th va of a co fu f at t , th is , f ( t ) = xt .
gi th tr se , th ga pr po is ag a di on fu , co
on th fu ta va f ( t1 ) = x1 , .
, f ( tn ) = xn .
la fe mo .
la fe mo re a se of ob in te of a se of la fe , ea of wh re an in de of va ex by th da .
su a re of da is so re to as a di re .
in an to no mi - tu mo wi an un nu of cl , a ba no ap to la fe mo al fo an un nu of la fe .
th st pr in he ar kn as th in bu ? et pr ( ib ) an th be pr ( bp ) .
dr fr bp ar ra di me , wh ea of an in ? ni nu of at ha a ma in ( 12 , 12 ) bu th ma of at ne no su to 12
ea at co to a fe , wi th ma co to th pr th th fe is pr fo an ob .
we ca vi th oc of fe am ob us a bi ma , wh th ( i , k ) en is 12 if ob i ha fe k an 12 ot - er .
th di ov bi ma in by th bp is ca th hi ma mo .
hi ma mo ( hm ) ar po mo - el fo se or te da , wh ea ti st is as wi a st , wi st tr de on th pr st .
an in ? ni hm is a ba no ap to hm , wh th nu of st is un an al to gr wi th se le .
it is de ? ne us on dp pr fo th tr pr go ou fr ea st .
to en - su th th se of st re fr ea ou st is th sa , th ba di of th dp ar sh an gi a dp pr re .
th co is ca a hi di pr ( hd ) ; se be .
de es .
a no ba ap to de es - ti re a pr on de or di .
ho , th dp is no us in th co , si it ge di di .
a us de es - to sh sm th em de ( su as a pa wi es ) , wh re a pr th ca ge sm di .
pr ap in de es pr in dp mi mo an p¡ tr .
dp mi mo : si th mi di in th dp mi is ra , th in de p ( x ) is ra th th dp mi ca be us as a pr ov de .
de th fa th th ar no pr us in ma le as cl mo , th we in fa or pr fo
p¡ tr ar pr on pr di th ca ge bo di an pi co di , de on th ch of pa - ra .
p¡ tr ar de ? ne by a re in ? ni de bi su - vi of th do of th ge ra me .
ea su is as wi a be ra va wh de th re am of ma on ea si of th su .
th dp is a sp ca of a p¡ tr co to a pa pa .
fo ot pa th re ra di ca be sm so is su fo de es - po - la ph .
ma na oc ph ex po -
la be .
ex in na la , im an so an ge - ne ne .
an in ge of th dp , ca th pi - yo pr , py ( ¦á , d , h ) , ha re be su us as mo of su po - la da .
th pi - yo pr au th dp by a th pa - te d ¡ê ( 12 , 12 ) .
wh d = 12 th py is a dp ( ¦á , h ) , wh wh ¦á = 12 it is a so ca no st pr .
se mo .
hm mo se da us la va re th un st of th sy , an as th ea st on de on th pr st ( th so ca ma pr ) .
in so ap , fo ex la mo an te co , we ar in - es in di mo se wi us la va , an wi ma an ma as , i . e .
mo ea ob co on al pr ob in th se .
si th se of po se of pr ob is un , th ca fo no mo .
a hi pi - yo pr ca be us to co a ba no - me so wh th co pr ar co hi .
de an hi mo .
mo of th ba no mo de ab ar ap in se wh ob ar ho - ge or ex .
in ma re wo se ob ar of no ho , in fa th ar of st in in wa .
fo ex , th da ge pr mi ch ov ti th ob at di ? er ti ar no ex , or ob mi co in di gr wi th in th sa gr be mo si th ac gr .
si ? ca re e ? or in ba no re ha be pl in de ex th ca ha th no - ho se - ti .
de di pr ar st pr , ty ov a sp or te do , wh de ? ne a di pr ( or a re ra - do me ) at ea po wi ne dp be mo de .
th ar us fo sp mo , no re , as we as fo mo te ch .
al , hi ba no mo li th hi dp ai to co mu ba no mo - el wi a hi ba fr .
th id is to al sh of st st ac mu gr of ob .
am ot ap - ca , th ha be us in th in ? ni hm , to mo , la mo , wo se , im se an gr in .
fo an ov of va de ba no mo an th ap - pl in bi pl co ( 12 ) .
( 12 ) is an ov of hi ba no mo as we as a va of ap in ma
as we sa in th pr ex , ba no mo of ma us of pr ov fu an me .
be th sp ty ha an un nu of di , ex ca ha to be ta to de ? ne
th pr pr an to st th as pr of es in th in th se we gi an ov of th ba co in in th th of ba no mo .
we st wi a di of th im of ex in ba pa an no st .
th is fo by re of th pr an is of co .
th un as of al ba me is th th pa sp - if th ob mo is a ra va .
th as is su to mu cr , an at th he of th ba ve no - ba de th ha lo di th st co .
ho , th is a ve ge ty of ob fo wh th ex of su a ra va ca be de ma : fo so - ca ex ob , th ba as th a ra di pa ex is no a mo as , bu a ma co of th da pr .
fo , a se of va x1 , x1 , .
, xn ov th sa pr sp ( x , ? ) is ex if th jo di is in to pe th va .
th is , if p is th jo di an ¦ò an pe of ( 12 , .
, n ) , th p ( x1 = x1 , x1 = x1 .
xn = xn ) = p ( x1 = x¦ ( 12 ) , x1 = x¦ ( 12 ) .
xn = x¦ ( n ) ) ( 12 )
an in ? ni se x1 , x1 , .
is in ? ni ex if x1 , .
, xn is ex - ch fo ev n ¡ý 12
in th pa we wi me in ? ni ex wh we wr ex .
ex re ? ec th as th th va do no de on th in al th ma be de - de am th .
th is ty a re as in ma le an st ap , ev if th va ar no th ii ( in an id di ) .
ex is a mu we as th ii ii va ar au ex .
if ¦è pa th un di , an on as a pr di - tr ov ¦è , th th re ma di ov x1 , x1 , .
wi ¦è ma ou wi st be ex .
a fu re cr to de fi ( 12 ) st th th co is al tr .
th is , if x1 , x1 , .
is ( in ? ni ) ex , th th is a ra ¦è su th :
p ( x1 , .
, xn ) =
fo ev n ¡ý 12
in ot wo , th se in as of ex - ch au im th ex of a hi ba mo wi ¦è be th ra la pa .
th th cr of th fu - da im of ex to ba st .
in de fi th it is im to st th ¦è ca be in ? ni di - si ( it is ty a ra me ) , th th hi ba mo
( 12 ) is ty a no on .
fo ex , th bl - ma ur sc ( re to th cr ) is ex th im de ? ne a ra - do me , na th dp ( se th dp en ( ? ) fo mo de ) .
in th se , we wi se be th de fi th is an al ro to ko - mo ex th , wh im de ? ne th st pr un ba no mo .
in ? ni di , a pr mo is us de ? ne by a de fu or pr ma fu .
in in ? ni - di sp , th ap is no ge fe , fo re ex be .
to de ? ne or wo wi a ba no mo , we ha to ch al ma we di .
a we di is a re fo th di - tr of a st pr , th is , fo a pr di on an in ? ni - di sa sp .
if we as th th di of th sp ar in by t ¡ê t , th st pr ca be re as th jo di p of an in ? ni se of ra va ( xt ) t¡ .
fo an ? ni su s ? t of di , th jo di ps of th co su ( xt ) t¡ of ra va is a ? ni - di ma of p .
th we di of a st pr is th se of al it ? ni - di ma , th is , th se ( ps : s ? t , |s < ¡þ ) .
fo ex , th cu de ? ni of th ga pr as an in ? ni co of ra va , ea ? ni su of wh ha a jo ga di , is an ex of a we di re .
in co to th ex re to be de be , th re is ge no ge , be it re th di ra th a ra dr , bu is mo wi
ap , ju de ? ni a we di in th ma ne no im - pl th it is a va re of a st pr .
a gi co of ? ni - di di re a st pr on ( 12 ) if a pr wi th di as it ma ac ex , an ( 12 ) if it is un de ? ne by th ma .
th ma re wh gu th we di re ar va is th ko ex th ( al kn as th da - ko th or th ko co th ) .
su th a co ( ps : s ? t , |s < ¡þ ) of di is gi .
if al di in th co ar ma of ea ot , th is , if ps is a ma of ps wh s1 ? s1 , th se of di - ti is ca a pr fa .
th ko ex th st th , if th se t is co , an if th di ps fo a pr fa , th th ex a un de ? ne st pr wi th co - ti ( ps ) as it ma di .
in ot wo , an pr fa fo a co se t of di is th we di of a st pr - ce .
co , an st pr ca be re in th ma , by co it se of ? ni - di ma .
th we di re as th al in ra va xt of th st pr ta va in th sa sa sp ? .
th st pr p de ? ne by th we di is th a pr di on th sa sp ? t , wh ca be in as th se of al fu f : t ¡ú ? .
fo ex , to co a gp we mi ch t = q an ? = r to ob re - va fu on th co sp of ra nu .
si q is de in r , th fu f ca th be ex to al of r by co .
to de ? ne th dp as a di ov pr me on r , we no th a pr me is a se fu th ma ¡° ev , i . e .
el of th bo ¦ò - al b ( r ) of r , in pr in ( 12 , 12 ) .
we co th ch a we di co of di di , an se t = b ( r ) an ? = ( 12 , 12 ) .
ho , th ap ra a ne pr be th se b ( r ) is no co .
as in th gp , we ca ? rs de ? ne th dp on a co ¡° fo b ( r ) th ex to al ra ev by co of me .
mo pr de ar un be th sc of th en .
ex re .
ex re di de a ra - do dr fr a st pr , ra th de it di .
a pr ex of an ex re is th so - ca st - br re of th di pr . th di ra me g in ( 12 ) is co de by th tw in ? ni se ( ¦ð ) k¡ an ( ¦è ) k¡ .
th st - br re of th dp ge th tw se by dr ¦è ¡« h ii an vk ¡« be ( 12 , ¦á ) fo k = 12 , 12 , .
th co ? ci ¦ð ar j= ( 12 ? vk ) .
th me g so ob ca be th co as ¦ð = vk sh to be di ac to a dp ( ¦á , g1 ) .
si re ca be de fo th pi - yo pr an th be pr as we .
ex re , if th ex fo a gi mo , ar ty of gr pr im fo th de of al .
im re .
a th re of in ? ni di mo is ba on de fi th .
an ex se x1 , .
, xn un de ? ne a st pr ¦è , ca th de fi me , ma th xi ii .
if th xi ar su ? ci to de ? ne th re of th mo an th co di ar ea sp ? ed , th it is su ? ci to wo di wi th xi an ha th un st pr im de ? ne .
ex - am in th ch re pr ( an ex di ov pa ) wi th dp as th de fi me , an th in bu ? et pr ( an ex di ov bi ma ) wi th bp be th co de fi me .
th im re ar us in pr as th ca le to si an e ? ci in al .
fi re .
a fo re of ba no mo is as th in ? ni li of ? ni ( pa ) ba mo .
fo ex - pl , dp mi ca be de as th in ? ni li of ? ni mi mo wi pa di pr on mi pr , gp ca be de as th in ? ni li of pa ba re mo wi ga pr , wh bp ca be de as fr th li of an in ? ni nu of in -
de be va .
th re ar so mo in fo pr fa wi pa mo .
ho no al ba no - pa mo ca be ex in th fa , an th do no ne ma cl th ma su in .
co an co ra
re wo in ma st ex th co pr of ba no mo , an in pa th qu of co an co ra .
in , a co es pr is a me th wi re in a co es if it ha ac to an in ? ni am of da , th is , a pr th wi be ac un it is ha by in ? ci sa si .
in ba st , an es is a di ov po pa va ( th po ) , an he co in ba mo is de ? ne by de th th po co to a de pe at th tr pa .
a cl th by j .
do sh th fo an ba mo , th se of al po tr pa va fo wh th mo wi be co ha pr on un th pr .
in ot wo , if th tr pa ( an he th da di ) is ch at ra fr th pr , we wi al en up wi a co mo , an a ba wh is ce ab th pr ne no wo ab in .
th re do no ho an if th tr pa va is no in th do of th pr .
in no mo - el , wh ha to sp ou th pr ma ov an in ? ni - di sp , th ca re in se un be of th mo .
fo ex - am , th di pr ma be us as a pr in de es .
it su co of th di di , wh me th if th da is dr fr an sm di , th tr mo is no in th su of th pr ( so do th do no ap ) .
as sh by di an fr ( 12 ) , th po wi no ne co in a re cl to th tr mo .
in , th im is th we ca ge as in no - pa mo th th e ? ec of th pr wi ev be ne if on we se en da .
ho , th do no me th no ba mo ar ge in : a la an gr li in ma st sh th co ca be gu by pr ch of an ad no mo ( 12 ) .
re re , no by va de va an gh , ap mo me - od of ma st to st th co pr of ba no mo ( se ( 12 ) fo fu re ) .
co ha be es - ta fo a nu of mo , in ga pr an di pr mi .
a pa in as of th li of wo ar re - su on co ra , wh sp ho ra th po co wi gr sa si , de on th co of th mo an on ho mu pr ma th pr pl ar th tr so .
to ma su re qu re a me fo th co of a ba no - pa mo .
th is do by me of co me de in
em pr th an st le th , su as me en , co nu an br , so of wh ar we - kn in th ma le .
ex of su re in th co of di pr mi mo fo de es if bo th ta de an th pa mi co ar sm , an a ra of co re fo re an de es wi ga pr .
fo al of th re , co ra ca be sp ? ed as we ( re ar gi in ( 12 ) ) .
a la cl of in ? ni - di mo wh do be we ev if th tr pa is no in th do of th pr is id ? ed in ( 12 ) .
in th ca , th po wi co in th re of th pr su wh is cl to th tr pa in a ku - le se .
th ar tw as to in in ba no mo : th an - ly tr of po fo th st pr em in ba no mo , an pr in al fo th ov mo - el .
ba no mo ty in st pr su as th ga pr an th di pr .
th pr ha an in ? ni nu of di th na ? ve al ap to co po is ge in .
fo , th pr ty ha an tr po , so al bu ? ni ma of th di ca be an in ou e ? ci .
th re di , al wi th pa pa of th mo , ca th be ha by th us in - en te em in pa ba mo , in ma ch mo ca , se mo ca , va in , an me - pa al li ex pr .
th pr ch of ap - im to us wi de on th sp ? c mo un co , wi sp / ac tr - o ? s be di ? er te ge fo th fo pa mo .
in th fo , we wi gi tw ex to il - tr th ab po , an di a fe th is as wi th an tr of st pr .
in ga pr re , we mo th re be an in x an an ou y us a fu f , so th y ¡« f ( x ) +  wh  is ii ga no .
gi a gp pr ov f an a ? ni tr da se ( ( xi , yi ) ) n wi to co th po ov f .
he we ca us th we re of f an no th ( f ( xi ) ) n i= is si a ? ni - di ga wi me an co gi by th me an co fu of th gp .
in fo ( f ( xi ) ) n i= is th st .
th ap ca be th of eq as ma ou th wh fu ex it va on th tr in .
no th al we on ha th po ov ( f ( xi ) ) n th is su ? ci to re th fu ev at an ot po x1 ( sa
i= gi ( f ( xi ) ) n
th te in ) , si f ( x1 ) is ga an in of th tr da i=
in gp re th po ov ( f ( xi ) ) n ca be co ex .
in gp cl ? ca or ot re se wi no li fu , th ty ap is to us sp me ba on va ap or ex pr se gp en ( ? ) fo de .
ou se ex in di pr mi mo .
re th th dp in a cl st on th da it .
if ou tr se co of n da it , si ea it ca on be to on cl , th ar at mo n cl re in th tr se .
ev th th dp mi it ha an in ? ni nu of po cl , al bu ? ni ma of th ar no as wi da , th th as va ne no be ex re at al .
th ca be un ei as ma ou th va , or as an im re wh ca be ma ex wh re by sa fr th pr .
th id is ap fo dp mi us bo th ch re pr an th st - br re - re .
in th cr re , ea da it xi is as wi a cl in zi , an ea cl k wi a pa ¦è ? k ( th pa ca be ma ou if h is co to f ) , an th ar th on la va - ab th ne be re in me .
in th st - br re , cl ar or by de pr ex si , wi cl k as wi a pa ¦è ? k an a si ¦ð .
ea da it is ag as wi a cl in zi , an on th cl up to k = ma ( z1 , .
, zn ) ne be re .
al cl wi in > k ne no be re si th po co on ( ( xi , zi ) ) n
i= is ju th pr .
on ba eq an co
it is wo no th th po of a ba mo is , in ab te , de ? ne as th co di of th pa gi th da an th hy , an th de ? ni do no re th ex of a if a ba eq ex fo th mo , th po ca eq be de ? ne as th le - ha si of th ba eq .
ho fo so st pr , no th dp on an un sp su as r , it is no po to de ? ne a ba eq ev th th po is st a we - de ? ne ma ob .
te sp , ex of a ba eq re th fa of al po po to be do by th pr , bu th is no th ca fo th dp .
th po of th st pr ca be ev at al is so du to th fa th th ad an
th pa fo of tr ex by ma st pr in th li is th of a co po , th is , th po be to th sa mo fa as th pr , an th po pa ca be co as a fu of th pr hy an th ob da .
fo ex , th po of a dp ( ¦á , g1 ) un ob ¦è , .
, ¦è is ag a di pr , dp ( ¦á + n ,
¦á ( ¦á + ( ci : 12 ) ¦ä ) ) .
si th po of a gp un
ob of f ( x1 ) , .
, f ( xn ) is st a gp .
it is th co th al pr in in th ex ab .
a ba no mo is co if an on if th el of it we di , i . e .
it ? ni - di ma , ha a co st as we ( 12 ) .
in pa , th ch a cl of co ba no mo wh we di co of ex fa mo .
no ho th la of co do no im in po .
an ex is gi by th pi - yo pr , wh th po is gi by a su of a ? ni nu of at an a pi - yo pr in fr th at .
si mc sa al fo di pr mi be av - ab in th 12 an ma la va mo wi no ba co ap to pr pr , th de of ba no - pa ha ex ex gr ( 12 , 12 ) .
ar , th , th re av so fa ha on sc th su .
th re of av - ab mo is st mo li to us th ga pr , th di pr , th be pr , an ge de fr th .
pl , ba no mo ma be de ? ne on an in ? ni - di ma ob of po in to ma le an st .
po - si ex ar ke , in ? ni gr , sp cl of fu ( e . g .
pi - wi co or so fu ) , an pe .
as fr th ob mo qu , tw ma fu di ar to ma ba no me av to a la au of re - se an pr th th de of so pa , an to un an qu th th pr of av me .
ge - pu so pa
th is cu si ? ca gr in th ap of ba no - ri mo ac a va of ap do bo in ma le an in st .
ho si ? ca hu st ex , es th ex an ex ne to de co pr fo in in th co mo .
on fu di is th th de of so pa th ca co e ? ci in al au gi mo sp ? ca - ti , th al a mu wi ra of mo to ma us of th mo .
cu de in th r dp , th hi ba co - pi , ad gr , th mi - ch pr , as we as e ? or to ad ba no mo to th re of cu ba mo
en li op an in . ne
st pr of mo
re wo in ma st pr so in in th qu - ti be of ba no mo ( cf th se ) .
th el , me ap un th re , wh qu ? es mo co by me of em pr th an th de co ra as a fu of th co , sh be ap to a wi ra of mo .
so fa , ho , on re fo ga pr an di pr - ce mi ha be pr , an it wi be of gr in to es pr fo ot pr .
so mo de in ma le , su as th in ? ni hm , ma po ne ch to th me , si th st wi pr ha to dr on bo th th of al an ma st .
on a wi ra of re is av , th ma in tu se to gu th de of ne mo , if it is po to es ho di ? er me of mo co a ? ec th st pr of th co mo .
di pr , ga pr , ba me , pr pr .
in ad to th re em in th te ab , we re th bo ( 12 , 12 ) an th re ar ( 12 , 12 ) on ba no .
re fo dp an dp mi mo ca be fo in th dp en ( ? ) , fo gp in th gp en ( ? ) , wh fo mo of th ot ex ca be fo in th ch ( 12 ) of th bo ( 12 ) .
wa .
al of no st .
sp , 12
du .
no ba ap to bi .
hj , c .
ho , p .
m¡ , an s .
wa , ed , ba no - pa .
ca un pr , 12
te an m .
jo .
hi ba no mo wi ap .
hj , c .
ho , p .
m¡ , an s .
wa , ed , ba no .
ca un pr , 12
de fi .
fu ca di un fe al .
at de r .
ac na de li , se 12
me , cl di sc fi , ma e na , 12 , 12
di an d .
fr .
on th co of ba es ( wi
di ) .
an of st , 12 ( 12 ) : 12 , 12
gh .
th di pr , re pr an po as .
hj , c .
ho , p .
m¡ , an s .
wa , ed , ba no - pa .
ca un pr , 12
kl an a .
va de va .
mi ? ca in in ? ni -
di ba st .
an of st , 12 : 12 , 12
or .
co of no ba mo fr pa - in ad in ne in pr
me ba eq .
es an m .
ba de es an in us mi .
jo of th am st as , 12 : 12
( 12 ) r .
ma ch sa me fo di pr mi mo .
jo of co an gr st , 12 : 12 ,
( 12 ) n .
hj , c .
ho , p .
m¡ , an s .
wa , ed .
ba no - me .
nu 12 in ca se in st an pr ma .
ca un pr , 12
( 12 ) j .
gh an r .
ra .
ba no .
sp ,
( 12 ) s .
wa , p .
da , p .
la , an a .
ba no in fo ra di an re fu .
jo of th ro st so , 12 ( 12 ) : 12 , 12
( 12 ) p .
m¡ an f .
qu .
no ba da an .
st sc , 12 ( 12 ) : 12 , 12
