we de a ne - in , un le al th bu a no - li ge mo fo pa of fa im fr th sa in .
in ar th re by nd th hi re pr pa am al pa th co of a te im an an im wh id is kn .
ou me co fa wi ot me in th li .
th ge mo co of a si la of ra - co , no - li fe de an it ha th pr th , gi a da ve , th tr po pr di ov th fe de ac ca be in ra wi it or ap .
th we of th fe de ar le by co - pa th co of pi in an fe ac in tw ph : wh th ne is ob re da an wh it is ob re of re da ge fr th fe ac .
fa re is di wh th nu of in is la an th te an tr - in im of an in di in ex , li or th da on wh th we ta .
in ad to be an im ap , fa re al us to ev di ki of al fo le to re or co ob , si it re ac re of ne di fe in th pr of re la wi - in va .
th is ma ev mo di wh th ar ve fe ex of ea in .
we st by de a ne un le al fo a re fo of bo - ma ma ( 12 ) .
we th sh ho to ge th ge mo an th le al to de wi re - va pi in an ra - co fe de .
we th co al wa of ap th ra - co mo to fa re .
12 in an le in re bo ma
a re bo ma ( 12 ) ha a la of vi un an a si la of hi - de un wi no hi - to - hi co .
in in an rb is mu ea th
in a ge bo ma an it is al mu ea th in a ca be ne be - ca th is no ex aw ( 12 ) .
th is th no ne to pe an it to de th ac of th hi un .
th hi st , j , ar co in - de gi th vi st , i , an th di of j is gi by th st
j = 12 =
12 ex i wi i
co , th hi st of an rb ar ma de so it is ea fo an rb to le po co in wh un ma be hi co .
it is ha to do th in ca be ne wi on hi la be th ge mo of a ca be ne as ma in .
an rb ca be tr us th st bo ma le al wh fo a no bu un es of th gr of th lo li of th da .
on wa to im th al is to st th ne wi a da ve on th vi un an th to al be up al of th hi un in pa an up al of th vi un in pa .
ea up pi a bi st fo a un fr it po di gi th cu st of al th un in th ot se .
if th al gi sa is ru to eq , th is a ve si wa to up th we so as to mi th ku - le di , 12 , be th da pr by th rb ( 12 ) :
12 , an th eq di of fa ov th vi un ,
wi / <i 12 <i 12
wh < ij > 12 is th ex va of ij wh da is cl on th vi un an th hi st ar sa fr th co di gi th da , an <i 12 is th ex va of ij af pr gi sa .
th le ru do no wo we be it ca ta a lo ti to ap th eq an th sa no in th es of < ij 12 ca sw th gr .
hi ( 12 ) sh th it is fa mo ef to mi th di be 12 is th di of th on - st re of th da th ar pr by rs pi bi hi st fr th co di gi th da an th pi bi vi st fr th co di gi th hi st .
th ex gr of th co di is co be 12 de on th we , bu th de ca sa be ig to yi a si an ef le ru fo fo th ap gr of th
wi / <i 12 <i 12
12 ap rb to fa re
fo im of fa , bi pi ar fa fr id .
a si wa to in th re - re po wi ch th in an le pr is to im th ea vi un , i , ha 12 re wh al ha id we to th hi un .
so fa as th hi un ar co , it ma no di wh pa re ar tu on : it is on th nu of ac re th co .
so a pi ca no ha 12 di in .
du re of th im fr th hi ac , al th re ca sh th co of th pr , i , of tu on , an th we ca se re to be on wi pr 12 i1 12 .
we ac ap - ed th bi di by ju ad a li ga no to 12 i an ro .
th sa tr ca be us fo th hi un .
12 is un ex th i an j ar no th nu of ac re .
th re tr ca be in as a ch wa of si an en of ne by as th ha id we .
al , it ca be se as a wa of si a si ne ov a ti in in wh it ma pr mu sp th co a ra - co .
fo th re we ca th mo rb .
we as th th vi un ca pr up to 12 sp an th hi un ca pr up to 12 sp .
we al ma tw fu ap : we re i an j in eq .
12 by th ex va an we us th ex va of i wh co th pr of ac of th hi un .
ho , we co to us th st ch in ri ra of th hi un wh co th on - st re of th da , so th hi ac ca tr an un am of in fr th da to th
a si wa to us rb fo fa re is to tr a si mo on th tr se , an id a fa by nd th ga im th pr a hi ac ve th is mo si to th on pr by th fa .
th is ho ei ar us fo re , bu it do no wo we be it do no ta in ac th fa th so va ac fa ar im fo re , wh so va ar no .
to co th , we in tr an rb mo on pa of di im of th sa in , an th we us th mo of pa to de wh ga im is be pa wi th te im .
to ac fo th fa th th mo li so in fa im mo th ot , we de th t be tw fa f 12 an f1 as gf f1 gf f1 gf f1 gf f1 wh gv v1 is th go sc of th im pa v1 v1 un th mo .
th go sc is th ne fr en wh is an ad fu of th to in re by ea hi un .
ea hi un ha a se of we go to ea im in th pa , an we - sh is no us , he gv v1 12 gv v1
ho , to pr sy , ea pa of im of th sa in v1 v1 in th tr se ha a re pa v 12 v1 in th se .
we tr th mo wi 12 hi un on 12 im pa ( 12 di pa ) fo 12 it in ba of 12 , wi a le ra of 12 : 12 12 12 fo th we , a le ra of 12 12 fo th bi , an a mo of 12 : 12
on ad of ei ov co is th on th te im ha be co in a ve of ei ac , co of te an ga im ca be ma in th lo - di sp of ei ac ra th th hi - di sp of pi in .
th sa ap to ou fa - pa ne .
th to in to ea hi un fr ea ga im ca be pr an st , wh th to in fr a te im on ne to be co on fo co wi al ga im .
12 th fe da
ou ve of th fe da co 12 fr fa im of 12 in ta ov a pe of a fe ye un va li co .
of th im , 12 ar us as bo th ga an th tr se an th re 12 ar di in fo , di te se : th ex te se co 12 im of di in .
th in al ha an im in th tr se th wa ta wi th sa li co at th sa ti bu wi a di ex .
th tr se al in a fu 12 pa of im th di on in ex .
th da te se co 12 im th co fr 12 in .
ea of th in ha tw im fr th sa se in th tr se an tw im ta in a se 12 da la or ea in th te se .
a fu 12 in we ph 12 da ap an al 12 of th im ar in th tr se .
fi 12 : im ar no in ve st : a ) or im b ) lo ce of ey by ha c ) ro im d ) cr im an su at 12 12 pi e ) ma ou al of th ba an so of th fa , le 12 pi in an ov sh f ) eq th in hi .
fi 12 : ex of pr fa .
th mo te se is ju li th da te se ex th th ti be se wa at le th mo an di li co we pr in th tw se .
th se co 12 im of 12 in .
a fu 12 im of 12 mo in we in in th tr se .
th gl te se co 12 im of 12 di in .
ea of th in - ua ha tw im in th tr se th we ta in an se on th sa da .
th tr an te pa fo an in di in th on pa ha gl an th ot do no .
th tr se in a fu 12 im , ha wi gl an ha wi , fr 12 mo in .
th fr fa im in th wh he , pa of th sh an ne , an ba - gr .
in of tr on th wh im , wh co mu ir in - ti , we tr on fa im th we no as sh in gu 12
ma ou al of th ba in lo th co of th fa wh co mu di - in in .
th hi eq st re mo li ef , bu it al re so re in li th sk to .
fo th be pe , th co sh an sk to wo ha to be us as an ad so of di in .
so ex of th pr im ar sh in gu 12
12 co re
we co rb wi fo po fa re me .
th rs an si is co ( 12 ) , wh re th si sc as th an be tw im re as ve of pi in .
th pe be th us th eu di as a sc .
th se me is ei ( 12 ) , wh rs pr th im on th pr
co ei fi pp rb
co ei fi pp rb
co ei fi pp rb
co ei fi pp rb
fi 12 : er ra of al me on al te se .
co su , th re th si sc as th an be th pr im .
we us 12 pr co , si we ge be re as we in th nu of co .
we al om th rs pr co , as we de ma th it en si fo li co .
th im th re pe on al th pr se ex fo ex .
th th me is sh ( 12 ) .
in of pr th im on th su of th pr co , wh ma th va am th pr im , sh pr th im on a su wh , at th sa ti , ma th be in va an mi th wi in va in th tr se .
we us a su of di 12
th na me , wh we sh ca pp , is pr by pe et al ( 12 ) .
th me mo di be im of th sa in as a pp ( 12 ) , an di be im of di in as an pp .
th gi a di im , it re as th si sc th li ra of th di im un th tw p - pc mo .
it wa th be pe al in th se 12 fe te ( 12 ) an is co wo th rb on ou te se .
we us 12 an 12 di pp fo th rs an se mo re .
th ar th sa nu us by pe et al an gi th be re .
fi 12 sh th er ra of al ve me on al fo te se .
co an ei pe po on ex , pr be th do no at to ig th wi - in va , wh th ot me do .
al th mo di ve po on th mo te se wh is un as th is th te se th is mo li re ap .
wh th er ra of th be ma is hi , it is in to co me by co th ra at wh co ma ap in th to fe im .
on mo , fo ex , rb ap to be wo th co bu it is fa mo li to ha th ri an in it to 12 ma .
ho , th mo te se is ti so th di ar un .
fi 12 sh th af ou pr ,
fi 12 : on th le is a pr im fr mo an on th ri ar th to 12 ma to th pr re by rb .
mo hu ob ca nd th co ma wi th 12
hu ob al ha gr di wi th mo te se , pr be th ta is in di an is ma ev ha by th lo of co an sk to in co wi th mi ov co pr by ma ou al of th ba .
12 re el le by rb
th to ha of gu 12 sh th we of a fe of th hi un af tr .
al th un en gl fe , pr be th im no en th th ar st lo ra co in pi in .
th ma si of th we is 12 : 12 , wi mo we ha ma sm th 12 : 12
no , ho , th th hi un ac ra fr 12 to 12
on th le ar 12 un ex in fe an on th ri ar 12 un ch at ra .
th to un of th rs co se to be en th pr of mo in bo fa .
th bo un se to be co fo pr ri ey in bo fa .
no th th ar fa fe wh of re co ac im of th sa in .
in th se co ar tw fe wh se to en fo di fa ex in th tw fa .
th ri si of th to un en a sm wh th le si is ex .
th is re in th bo un .
so th ne ha di so fe wh ar fa co ac im in th sa cl , an so fe wh ca di su wi a cl .
in by ( 12 ) , we tr to en lo fe by re th we to be no - ne .
th bo ha of gu 12 sh so of th hi re el le by rb wh tr wi no - ne we .
ex fo th 12 fe on th le , al ot fe ar lo an co fo fe li mo sh ch ( th co ) an ey an ch ( fo co ) .
th 12 fe on th le ar mu mo gl an cl ca th fa th th di of th li ca di fo tw im of th sa pe .
un , co th we to be no - ne st li th re po of rb an ma it wo th al th ot me on al th te se ( ex fo pp on mo ) .
we ha in a ne me fo fa re ba on a no - li ge mo .
th no - li ge mo ca be ve co , ye re th ef re fo ap .
go pe is ob on th fe da .
th is pl of ro fo fu de us pr kn to co th we or ad la of hi un to mo th co of fe de ac .
fi 12 : ex fe le by rb .
ea pa of rf co a fe .
to ha : wi un we bo ha : wi no - ne we co .
