we pre an aut ali pro whi map the dis int rep lea by sev loc dim red exp int a sin , coh glo coo sys for the ori dat spa .
our alg can be app to any set of exp , eac of whi pro a low - dim loc rep of a hig - dim inp .
unl rec eff to coo suc mod by mod the obj fun ( 123 , 123 ) , our alg is inv aft tra and app an efc eig to pos - pro the tra mod .
the pos - pro has no loc opt and the siz of the sys - tem it mus sol sca wit the num of loc mod rat tha the num of ori dat poi , mak it mor efc tha mod - fre alg suc as iso ( 123 ) or lle ( 123 ) .
123 int : loc vs .
glo dim red bey den mod , an imp goa of uns lea is to dis com - pac , inf rep of hig - dim dat .
if the dat lie on a smo low dim man , the an exc enc is the coo int to tha man - ifo .
the pro of det suc coo is dim red .
lin dim red met suc as pri com ana and fac ana - sis are eas to tra but can cap the str of cur man .
mix of the sim uns mod ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) hav bee use to per loc dim red , and can pro goo den mod for cur man , but unf suc mix can do dim red .
the do not des a sin , coh - ent low - dim coo sys for the dat sin the is no pre for the loc coo of eac com to agr .
row et al ( 123 ) rec pro a mod whi per glo coo of loc coo sys in a mix of fac ana ( mfa ) .
the mod is tra by max - imi the lik of the dat , wit an add var pen ter to enc the int coo of the fac ana to agr .
whi the mod can tra off mod the dat and hav con loc coo sys , it req a use giv tra - off par , tra is qui ine ( alt ( 123 ) des an imp tra - ing alg for a mor con mod ) , and it has qui ser loc min pro ( met lik lle ( 123 ) or iso ( 123 ) hav to be use for ini ) .
in thi pap we des a nov , aut way to ali the hid rep use by eac com of a mix of dim red int a sin glo rep of the dat thr spa .
giv an alr tra mix , the ali is ach by app an eig to a mat con fro the int rep of the mix com .
our met is efc , sim to imp , and has no loc opt in its opt nor any lea rat or ann sch .
123 the loc lin coo alg
sup we hav a set of dat poi giv by the row of
- dim spa , whi we ass are sam fro a
we app the man coo usi ima dim emb spa .
sup als tha we hav alr tra , or hav bee th red pro a%$ dim - giv , a mix of " sio int rep ( ' for dat poi ) ' as wel as a res ' des how rel the is .
the sat /
loc dim red .
the th red rep of
and can be obt , for exa , usi a gat net in a mix of exp , or the pos pro in a pro net .
not tha the man coo and int rep nee not hav the sam num of dim .
giv the dat , int rep , and res , our alg aut ali the var hid rep int a sin glo coo sys .
two key ide mot the met .
fir , to use a con cos fun who uni min is
att at the des glo coo .
sec , to res the glo coo $ and res dep on the dat
the lev the str of the mix mod to reg and red the eff siz of the opt pro .
in eff , rat tha wor wit ind dat poi , we wor wit lar gro of poi bel to par sub .
' onl thr the loc rep
to the to obt its gue at the glo coo .
the nal glo is obt by ave the gue usi the res as wei :
giv an inp we rst par the glo coo in ter of* $ and the app a lin pro , eac loc mod inf its int coo $ and off 123 is the k th ent of & = , whe .
for com , we wil wri the dom of1 $ and the now den the mat ( 123 ) bec a sys of lin equ ( 123 ) wit xed
is the k th col of 123 $ , e int a sin new ind
$ , and e th row of1 and unk par
is a bia .
thi pro is des in gur 123
to sim our cal , we hav vec the is an inv map fro
fig 123 : obt glo coo fro dat via res - wei loc coo .
is lin in eac
$ and the unk par
is hig non - lin sin it dep on the mul - cat of res and int coo whi are in tur non - lin rel to
the key ass , whi we hav emp by re - exp map bet the loc rep and the glo coo ' and the ima the dat ' we now con det
' abo , is tha the $ .
cru , how , the map bet the = .
for thi we is con in1
adv usi a con as wel , and the is a uni opt tha can be com efc usi a var of met .
thi is sti tru if we als hav fea con con cas whe the cos and con are bot qua is par app sin we
not tha sin
thr the inf pro of the mix mod .
acc to som giv cos fun
is lin in1
in par sup
thi giv :
den the cos and con , and let
can use an eig to nd the opt
is the tra ope .
the mat
are typ obt fro the and sum the ess geo amo the .
the sol to the
con min abo is giv by the sma gen eig
bel , we inv a cos fun bas on the loc lin emb ( lle ) alg - rit of row and sau ( 123 ) .
we cal the res alg loc lin coo - tio ( llc ) .
the ide of lle is to pre the sam loc lin rel bet
in par the col of1
are giv by the gen eig .
we ide for eac poi
' and the cou the ori dat poi ' and the min
sub to the con /
the wei are uni
wit res to and can be sol for efc usi con lea squ ( sin sol for
the wei sum the loc geo rel the dat poi
arr to min the sam cos
to the nei , hen to pre the rel amo the coo but wit res to
is inv to tra and rot of
in ord to bre the deg we enf the fol con :
is a vec of 123 s .
for thi cho , the cos fun and con abo bec :
, and sca as
wit cos and con mat
123 the unu cas whe the num of nei is lar tha the dim of the dat , sim reg of the nor of the wei onc aga mak the uni .
as sho pre , the sol to thi pro is giv by the sma gen tha are ort to the vec is the sma gen eig , cor to an eig of 123
hen the sol to the pro is
- , we nee to nd eig
to sat
for ,
llc ali alg :
of the gen eig sys
giv by the
not tha the edg siz of the mat
, com loc lin rec wei
sma gen eig ins .
, obt a loc rep for eac sub and eac dat poi
tra or rec a pre - tra mix of loc dim red .
app thi mix to for the mat wit $ and cal fin the eig cor to the sma let be a mat wit col for by the nd to th row of1 as ali wei ret the glo man coo as $ whi sca wit the num of com and dim of the loc .
as a res , sol for the rep but not wit the num of dat poi + ali wei is muc mor efc tha the ori lle com ( or tho .
in eff , we of iso ) whi req sol an eig sys of edg siz + hav lev the mix of loc mod to col lar gro of poi tog and wor onl wit tho gro rat tha the ori dat poi .
not how tha sti req det the nei of the ori the com of the wei in the wor cas .
dat poi , whi sca as coo wit llc als yie a mix of noi fac ana ove the glo
123 st eig .
$ and fac loa 123 th fac ana hav mea 123 , wit the # , we can inf the res and the pos mea giv any glo coo $ ove the lat spa of eac fac ana .
if our ori loc dim red - $ , we can now inf the hig dim mea ers als sup com dat poi whi cor to the glo coo
thi all us to per op - era lik vis and int usi the glo coo sys .
thi is the met we use to inf the ima in gur 123 and 123 in the nex sec .
who gen eig we see
123 exp res usi mix of fac ana the ali com we hav des is app to any mix of loc dim - sio red .
in our exp , we hav use the mos bas suc mod : a mix th fac ana in the mix des a pro -
of fac ana ( mfa ) ( 123 ) .
the # bil lin map fro a lat var
the mod ass tha the dat man is loc lin and it is thi loc str tha is cap by eac fac ana .
the non - lin in the dat man is han by pat mul fac ana tog , eac han a loc lin reg .
to the dat wit add gau noi .
mfa are tra in an uns way by max the mar log lik of the obs dat , and par est is typ don usi the em alg
123 our exp , we ini the par by dra the mea fro the glo cov - anc of the dat and set the fac to sma ran val .
we als sim the fac ana to sha the sam sph noi cov alt thi is not ess to the pro .
fig 123 : llc on the s cur ( a ) .
the are 123 fac ana in the mix ( b ) , eac wit 123 lat dim .
eac dis rep one of the wit the two bla lin bei the fac loa .
aft ali by llc ( c ) , the cur is suc unr it is als pos to ret ali the ori dat spa mod ( d ) .
fig 123 : unk the tre cur .
we gen 123 noi poi fro the cur .
the we t an mfa wit 123 com wit 123 lat dim eac ( a ) , but ali the in a 123 spa ( b ) .
we use 123 nei to rec - str eac dat poi .
$ con on the dat
th loc rep of
as the res .
th fac ana gen
$ , a mfa tra onl
th fac ana gen ) as the
to max lik can lea a glo coo sys for the man tha is con acr eve fac ana .
hen thi is a per mod on whi to app , whi we use the
sin the is no con rel the var hid var aut ali .
nat , we use the mea of& pos pro tha the
we ill llc on two syn toy pro to giv som int abo how it wor .
the rst pro is the s cur giv in gur 123 ( a ) .
an mfa tra on 123 poi sam uni fro the man wit add noi ( b ) is abl to mod the lin str of the cur loc , how the int coo of the fac ana are not ali pro .
we app llc to the loc rep and ali the in a 123 spa ( c ) .
whe sol for loc wei , we use 123 nei to rec eac dat poi .
we see tha llc has suc unr the s cur ont the 123 spa .
fur , giv the coo tra pro by llc , we can ret ali the lat spa of the mfa ( d ) .
thi is don by det dir in the var lat spa whi get tra to the sam dir in the glo spa .
to emp the top adv of ali rep int a spa of hig dim tha the loc coo use by eac sub , we als tra a mfa on dat sam fro a tre cur , as sho in gur 123 ( a ) .
the tre is a cir wit a kno in 123 .
as gur 123 ( b ) sho , llc con the mod int a rin of loc top fai to the ori dat .
we app llc to mfa tra on set of rea ima bel to com fro a com man wit few deg of fre .
we stu fac ima of a sin per und var pos and exp cha and han dig fro the mni dat .
aft tra the mfa , we app llc to ali the mod .
the fac mod wer ali int a 123 spa as sho in gur 123
the rst dim app to des
fig 123 : a map of rec of the fac whe the glo coo are spe .
con des the lik of the coo .
not tha som rec aro the edg of the map are not goo bec the mod is ext fro the tra ima to reg of low lik .
a mfa wit 123 com and 123 lat dim eac is use .
it is tra on 123 ima
are cal usi 123 nei .
cha in pos , whi the sec des cha in exp .
the dig mod wer ali int a 123 spa .
fig 123 ( top ) sho map of rec of the dig .
the rst dim app to des the sla of eac dig , the sec the fat of eac dig , and the thi the rel siz of the upp to low loo .
fig 123 ( bot ) sho how llc can smo int bet any two dig .
in par , the rst row int bet lef and rig sla dig , the sec bet fat and thi dig , the thi bet thi and thi lin str , and the fou bet hav a lar bot loo and lar top loo .
123 dis and con pre wor on non dim red has usu emp eit a par - met app , whi exp con a ( som pro ) map bet the hig - dim and low - dim spa , or a non app whi mer nds low - dim ima cor to hig - dim dat poi but wit pro mod or hid var .
com to the glo coo mod ( 123 ) , the clo par app to our , our alg can be und as pos coo , in whi the lat spa are coo aft the hav bee t to dat .
by dec the dat tti and coo pro we gai efc and avo loc opt in the coo pha .
fur , sin we are jus max lik whe tti the ori mix to dat , we can use a who ran of kno tec to esc loc min , and imp efc in the rst pha as wel .
on the non sid , our app can be com to two rec alg , lle
to its lat spa , the nal coo mod wil als des a ( pro ) map fro the who dat spa to the coo emb spa .
our ali alg imp upo loc emb or den mod by ele the sta to ful glo dim red alg wit req any mod - cat to the tra pro or cos fun .
for exa , usi mix of fac ana ( mfa ) as a tes cas , we sho how our ali met can all a mod pre sui onl for den est to do com ope on hig dim dat suc as vis and int .
bra ( 123 ) has rec pro an app , sim to our , tha coo loc par - met mod to obt a glo val non emb fun .
lik llc , his cha met den a qua cos fun and nds the opt coo di - rec and efc .
how , cha is bas on a cos fun muc clo in spi to the ori glo coo mod and it ins one loc mod cen on eac tra poi , so its sca is the sam as tha of lle and iso .
in pri , bra met can be ext to wor wit few loc mod and our ali pro can be app usi the cha cos rat tha the lle cos we hav pur her .
aut ali pro emp a pow but oft ove int - tio of loc mix mod .
rat tha con the out of suc sys to be a sin qua , suc as a den est or a exp - wei reg , it is pos to vie the as net whi con hig - dim inp int a vec of int coo fro eac sub , acc by res .
as we hav sho , thi vie can lea to efc and pow alg whi all sep loc mod to lea con glo rep .
we tha geo hin for ins and int dis , bre fre and yan lec for sha the dat set , and the rev for hel com .
