bay non mod
pet orb , cam uni
yee why teh , uni col lon
rel key : bay met , pri pro , dir pro ,
a bay non mod is a bay mod on an in ? nit - dim par spa .
the par spa is typ cho as the set of all pos - ble sol for a giv lea pro .
for exa , in a reg pro the par spa can be the set of con fun , and in a den est - mat pro the spa can con of all den .
a bay non mod use onl a ? nit sub of the ava par dim to exp a ? nit sam of obs , wit the set of dim cho dep on the sam , suc tha the e ? ect com of the mod ( as mea by the num of dim use ) ada to the dat .
cla ada pro , suc as non est and mod sel , can thu be for as bay inf pro .
pop exa of bay non mod inc gau pro reg , in whi the cor str is re ? ned wit gro sam siz , and dir pro mix mod for clu , whi ada the num of clu to the com of the dat .
bay non mod hav rec bee app to a var of ma - chi lea pro , inc reg , cla ? cat , clu , lat var mod , seq mod , ima seg , sou sep and gra ind .
mot and bac
mos of mac lea is con wit lea an app set of pa - ram wit a mod cla fro tra dat .
the met lev pro of det app mod cla are ref to as mod sel or mod ada .
the con imp con for mac lea pra , chi ? y for avo of ove - ? tti and und - ? tti , but als for dis of the cau and str und dat .
exa of mod se - lec and ada inc : sel the num of clu in a clu pro , the num of hid sta in a hid mar mod , the num
of lat var in a lat var mod , or the com of fea use in non reg .
non mod con an app to mod sel and ada - tat , whe the siz of mod are all to gro wit dat siz .
thi is as opp to par mod whi use a ? xed num of par .
for exa , a par app to den est wou be to ? t a gau - sia or a mix of a ? xed num of gau by max lik .
a non app wou be a par win est , whi cen a gau at eac obs ( and hen use one mea par per obs - tio ) .
ano exa is the sup vec mac wit a gau ker .
the rep the sho tha the dec fun is a lin com - tio of gau rad bas fun cen at eve inp vec , and thu has a com tha gro wit mor obs .
non met hav lon bee pop in cla ( non - bay ) sta ( 123 ) .
the oft per - for imp in app and , tho the res for suc mod are typ har to pro tha for par mod , app the pro hav bee est for a wid ran of mod .
bay non met pro a bay fra for mod sel and ada usi non mod .
a bay for of non pro is non , sin a bay mod de ? nes pri and pos dis on a sin ? xed par spa , but the dim - sio of the par spa in a non app sho cha wit sam siz .
the bay non sol to thi pro is to use an in ? nit - dim par spa , and to inv onl a ? nit sub of the ava par on any giv ? nit dat set .
thi sub gen gro wit the dat set .
in the con of bay non mod , ¡°i ? nit - dim can the be int as ¡°o ? nit but unb dim .
mor pre , a bay non mod is a mod tha ( 123 ) con a bay mod on an in ? nit - dim par spa and ( 123 ) can be eva on a ? nit sam in a man tha use onl a ? nit sub of the ava par to exp the sam .
we mak the abo des mor con in the nex sec whe we des a num of sta mac lea pro and the cor - ing bay non sol .
as we wil see , the par spa in ( 123 ) typ con of fun or of mea , whi ( 123 ) is usu ach by mar out sur dim ove the pri .
ran fun and mea , and mor gen pro dis on in ? nit - dim ran obj , are cal sto pro exa we wil enc inc gau pro , dir pro and bet pro .
bay non mod are oft nam aft the sto pro the con - tai .
the exa are the fol by the con , inc for con and rep of the sto pro use in bay non mod , exc , and iss of con and con rat .
we con thi art wit fut dir and a rea
den fun ove dat ite x of the for p ( x ) = ( cid : 123 ) k p ( x ) = ( cid : 123 ) p ( x|¦ ) g ( ¦è ) d¦è , whe g = ( cid : 123 ) k
clu wit mix mod .
bay non gen of ? nit mix mod pro an app for est bot the num of com in a mix mod and the par of the ind mix - tur com sim fro dat .
fin mix mod de ? ne a k=1 ¦ðk ( x|¦ ) , whe ¦ðk is the mix pro and ¦èk are par ass wit com - nen k .
the den can be wri in a non - sta man as an int : k=1 ¦ðk is a dis mix dis enc all the par of the mix mod and ¦ä¦ is a dir dis - tri ( ato ) cen at ¦è .
bay non mix use mix dis con of a cou in ? nit num of ato ins :
thi giv ris to mix mod wit an in ? nit num of com .
whe app to a ? nit tra set , onl a ? nit ( but var ) num of com wil be use to mod the dat , sin eac dat ite is ass wit exa one com but eac com can be ass wit mul dat ite .
inf in the mod the aut rec bot the num of com - nen to use and the par of the com .
bei bay , we nee a pri ove the mix dis g , and the mos com pri to use is a dir pro ( dp ) .
the res mix mod is cal a dp mix .
for , a dir pro dp ( ¦á , h ) par by a con par ¦á > 123 and a bas dis h is a pri ove dis ( pro - ity mea ) g suc tha , for any ? nit par a12 , .
, am of the par spa , the ind ran vec ( g ( a12 ) , .
, g ( am ) ) is dir dis wit par ( ¦áh ( a12 ) , .
, ¦áh ( am ) ) ( see the the sec for a dis of sub inv in thi de ? nit ) .
it can be sho tha dra fro a dp wil be dis dis as giv in ( 123 ) .
the dp als ind a dis ove par of int cal the chi res pro ( crp ) , whi dir des the pri ove how dat ite are clu und the dp mix .
for mor det on the dp and the crp , see dp ent ( ? ) .
non reg .
the aim of reg is to inf a con fun fro a tra set con of inp - out pai ( ( ti , xi ) ) n app par the fun usi a ? nit num of par and att to inf the par fro dat .
the pro bay non - par app to thi pro is to de ? ne a pri dis ove con - tin fun dir by mea of a gau pro ( gp ) .
as exp in gp ent ( ? ) , a gp is a dis on an in ? nit col of ran var xt , suc tha the joi dis of eac ? nit sub xt1 , .
, xtm is a mul - tiv gau .
a val xt tak by the var xt can be reg as the val of a con fun f at t , tha is , f ( t ) = xt .
giv the tra set , the gau pro pos is aga a dis on fun , con
on the fun tak val f ( t12 ) = x12 , .
, f ( tn ) = xn .
lat fea mod .
lat fea mod rep a set of obj in ter of a set of lat fea , eac of whi rep an ind deg of var exh by the dat .
suc a rep of dat is som ref to as a dis rep .
in ana to non mix - tur mod wit an unk num of clu , a bay non app to lat fea mod all for an unk num of lat fea .
the sto pro inv her are kno as the ind bu ? et pro ( ibp ) and the bet pro ( bp ) .
dra fro bps are ran dis mea , whe eac of an in ? nit num of ato has a mas in ( 123 , 123 ) but the mas of ato nee not sum to 123
eac ato cor to a fea , wit the mas cor to the pro tha the fea is pre for an obj .
we can vis the occ of fea amo obj usi a bin mat , whe the ( i , k ) ent is 123 if obj i has fea k and 123 oth - erw .
the dis ove bin mat ind by the bp is cal the hid mar mod .
hid mar mod ( hmm ) are pop mod - els for seq or tem dat , whe eac tim ste is ass wit a sta , wit sta tra dep on the pre sta .
an in ? nit hmm is a bay non app to hmm , whe the num of sta is unb and all to gro wit the seq len .
it is de ? ned usi one dp pri for the tra pro goi out fro eac sta .
to en - sur tha the set of sta rea fro eac out sta is the sam , the bas dis of the dps are sha and giv a dp pri rec .
the con is cal a hie dir pro ( hdp ) ; see bel .
den est .
a non bay app to den est - tio req a pri on den or dis .
how , the dp is not use in thi con , sin it gen dis dis .
a use den est - tor sho smo the emp den ( suc as a par win est ) , whi req a pri tha can gen smo dis .
pri app in den est pro inc dp mix mod and p¡ä tre .
dp mix mod : sin the mix dis in the dp mix is ran , the ind den p ( x ) is ran thu the dp mix can be use as a pri ove den .
des the fac tha the are now pri use in mac lea as clu mod , the wer in fac ori pro for
p¡ä tre are pri on pro dis tha can gen bot dis and pie con dis , dep on the cho of pa - ram .
p¡ä tre are de ? ned by a rec in ? nit dee bin sub - vis of the dom of the gen ran mea .
eac sub is ass wit a bet ran var whi des the rel amo of mas on eac sid of the sub .
the dp is a spe cas of a p¡ä tre cor to a par par .
for oth par the res ran dis can be smo so is sui for den est - pow - law phe .
man nat occ phe exh pow -
law beh .
exa inc nat lan , ima and soc and ge - net net .
an int gen of the dp , cal the pit - yor pro , pyp ( ¦á , d , h ) , has rec bee suc use as mod of suc pow - law dat .
the pit - yor pro aug the dp by a thi par - ter d ¡ê ( 123 , 123 ) .
whe d = 123 the pyp is a dp ( ¦á , h ) , whi whe ¦á = 123 it is a so cal nor sta pro .
seq mod .
hmm mod seq dat usi lat var rep the und sta of the sys , and ass tha eac sta onl dep on the pre sta ( the so cal mar pro ) .
in som app , for exa lan mod and tex com , we are int - est in dir mod seq wit usi lat var , and wit mak any mar ass , i . e .
mod eac obs con on all pre obs in the seq .
sin the set of pot seq of pre obs is unb , thi cal for non mod .
a hie pit - yor pro can be use to con a bay non - met sol whe the con pro are cou hie .
dep and hie mod .
mos of the bay non mod des abo are app in set whe obs are hom - gen or exc .
in man rea wor set obs are oft not hom , in fac the are oft str in int way .
for exa , the dat gen pro mig cha ove tim thu obs at di ? ere tim are not exc , or obs mig com in dis gro wit tho in the sam gro bei mor sim tha acr gro .
sig ? can rec e ? ort in bay non res hav bee pla in dev ext tha can han the non - hom set - tin .
dep dir pro are sto pro , typ ove a spa or tem dom , whi de ? ne a dir pro ( or a rel ran - dom mea ) at eac poi wit nei dps bei mor dep .
the are use for spa mod , non reg , as wel as for mod tem cha .
alt , hie bay non mod lik the hie dp aim to cou mul bay non mod - els wit a hie bay fra .
the ide is to all sha of sta str acr mul gro of obs .
amo oth app - cat , the hav bee use in the in ? nit hmm , top mod , lan mod , wor seg , ima seg and gra ind .
for an ove of var dep bay non mod and the ap - pli in bio ple con ( 123 ) .
( 123 ) is an ove of hie bay non mod as wel as a var of app in mac
as we saw in the pre exa , bay non mod oft mak use of pri ove fun and mea .
bec the spa typ hav an unc num of dim , ext car has to be tak to de ? ne
the pri pro and to stu the asy pro of est in the in thi sec we giv an ove of the bas con inv in the the of bay non mod .
we sta wit a dis of the imp of exc in bay par and non sta .
thi is fol by rep of the pri and iss of con .
the und ass of all bay met is tha the par spe - ify the obs mod is a ran var .
thi ass is sub to muc cri , and at the hea of the bay ver non - bay deb tha has lon div the sta com .
how , the is a ver gen typ of obs for whi the exi of suc a ran var can be der mat : for so - cal exc obs , the bay ass tha a ran dis par exi is not a mod ass , but a mat con of the dat pro .
for , a seq of var x12 , x12 , .
, xn ove the sam pro spa ( x , ? ) is exc if the joi dis is inv to per the var .
tha is , if p is the joi dis and ¦ò any per of ( 123 , .
, n ) , the p ( x12 = x12 , x12 = x12 .
xn = xn ) = p ( x12 = x¦ò ( 123 ) , x12 = x¦ò ( 123 ) .
xn = x¦ò ( n ) ) ( 123 )
an in ? nit seq x12 , x12 , .
is in ? nit exc if x12 , .
, xn is ex - cha for eve n ¡ý 123
in thi pap we wil mea in ? nit exc whe we wri exc .
exc re ? ect the ass tha the var do not dep on the ind alt the may be dep - den amo the .
thi is typ a rea ass in mac lea and sta app , eve if the var are not the iid ( ind and ide dis ) .
exc is a muc wea ass tha iid iid var are aut exc .
if ¦è par the und dis , and one ass a pri dis - tri ove ¦è , the the res mar dis ove x12 , x12 , .
wit ¦è mar out wil sti be exc .
a fun res cre to de fin ( 123 ) sta tha the con is als tru .
tha is , if x12 , x12 , .
is ( in ? nit ) exc , the the is a ran ¦è suc tha :
p ( x12 , .
, xn ) =
for eve n ¡ý 123
in oth wor , the see inn ass of ex - cha aut imp the exi of a hie bay mod wit ¦è bei the ran lat par .
thi the cru of the fun - dam imp of exc to bay sta .
in de fin the it is imp to str tha ¦è can be in ? nit dim - sio ( it is typ a ran mea ) , thu the hie bay mod
( 123 ) is typ a non one .
for exa , the bla - mac urn sch ( rel to the crp ) is exc thu imp de ? nes a ran - dom mea , nam the dp ( see the dp ent ( ? ) for mor det ) .
in thi sen , we wil see bel tha de fin the is an alt rou to kol - mog ext the , whi imp de ? nes the sto pro und bay non mod .
in ? nit dim , a pro mod is usu de ? ned by a den fun or pro mas fun .
in in ? nit - dim spa , thi app is not gen fea , for rea exp bel .
to de ? ne or wor wit a bay non mod , we hav to cho alt mat wea dis .
a wea dis is a rep for the dis - tri of a sto pro , tha is , for a pro dis on an in ? nit - dim sam spa .
if we ass tha the dim of the spa are ind by t ¡ê t , the sto pro can be reg as the joi dis p of an in ? nit set of ran var ( xt ) t¡ê .
for any ? nit sub s ? t of dim , the joi dis ps of the cor sub ( xt ) t¡ê of ran var is a ? nit - dim mar of p .
the wea dis of a sto pro is the set of all its ? nit - dim mar , tha is , the set ( ps : s ? t , |s| < ¡þ ) .
for exa , the cus de ? nit of the gau pro as an in ? nit col of ran var , eac ? nit sub of whi has a joi gau dis , is an exa of a wea dis rep .
in con to the exp rep to be des bel , thi rep is gen not gen , bec it rep the dis rat tha a ran dra , but is mor wid
app , jus de ? nin a wea dis in thi man nee not im - ply tha it is a val rep of a sto pro .
a giv col of ? nit - dim dis rep a sto pro onl ( 123 ) if a pro wit the dis as its mar act exi , and ( 123 ) if it is uni de ? ned by the mar .
the mat res whi gua tha wea dis rep are val is the kol ext the ( als kno as the dan - kol the or the kol con the ) .
sup tha a col ( ps : s ? t , |s| < ¡þ ) of dis is giv .
if all dis in the col are mar of eac oth , tha is , if ps1 is a mar of ps1 whe s12 ? s12 , the set of dis - tio is cal a pro fam .
the kol ext the sta tha , if the set t is cou , and if the dis ps for a pro fam , the the exi a uni de ? ned sto pro wit the col - tio ( ps ) as its mar dis .
in oth wor , any pro fam for a cou set t of dim is the wea dis of a sto pro - ces .
con , any sto pro can be rep in thi man , by com its set of ? nit - dim mar .
the wea dis rep ass tha all ind ran var xt of the sto pro tak val in the sam sam spa ? .
the sto pro p de ? ned by the wea dis is the a pro dis on the sam spa ? t , whi can be int as the set of all fun f : t ¡ú ? .
for exa , to con a gp we mig cho t = q and ? = r to obt rea - val fun on the cou spa of rat num .
sin q is den in r , the fun f can the be ext to all of r by con .
to de ? ne the dp as a dis ove pro mea on r , we not tha a pro mea is a set fun tha map ¡°r eve , i . e .
ele of the bor ¦ò - alg b ( r ) of r , int pro in ( 123 , 123 ) .
we cou the cho a wea dis con of dir dis , and set t = b ( r ) and ? = ( 123 , 123 ) .
how , thi app rai a new pro bec the set b ( r ) is not cou .
as in the gp , we can ? rst de ? ne the dp on a cou ¡°b for b ( r ) the ext to all ran eve by con of mea .
mor pre des are unf bey the sco of thi ent .
exp rep .
exp rep dir des a ran - dom dra fro a sto pro , rat tha des its dis .
a pro exa of an exp rep is the so - cal sti - bre rep of the dir pro . the dis ran mea g in ( 123 ) is com det by the two in ? nit seq ( ¦ðk ) k¡ê and ( ¦èk ) k¡ê .
the sti - bre rep of the dp gen the two seq by dra ¦èk ¡« h iid and vk ¡« bet ( 123 , ¦á ) for k = 123 , 123 , .
the coe ? cie ¦ðk are j=1 ( 123 ? vk ) .
the mea g so obt can be the com as ¦ðk = vk sho to be dis acc to a dp ( ¦á , g12 ) .
sim rep can be der for the pit - yor pro and the bet pro as wel .
exp rep , if the exi for a giv mod , are typ of gre pra imp for the der of alg .
imp rep .
a thi rep of in ? nit dim mod is bas on de fin the .
any exc seq x12 , .
, xn uni de ? nes a sto pro ¦è , cal the de fin mea , mak the xi¡ iid .
if the xi¡ are su ? cie to de ? ne the res of the mod and the con dis are eas spe ? ed , the it is su ? cie to wor dir wit the xi¡ and hav the und sto pro imp de ? ned .
ex - amp inc the chi res pro ( an exc dis ove par ) wit the dp as the de fin mea , and the ind bu ? et pro ( an exc dis ove bin mat ) wit the bp bei the cor de fin mea .
the imp rep are use in pra as the can lea to sim and e ? cie inf alg .
fin rep .
a fou rep of bay non mod is as the in ? nit lim of ? nit ( par ) bay mod .
for exa - ple , dp mix can be der as the in ? nit lim of ? nit mix mod wit par dir pri on mix pro , gps can be der as the in ? nit lim of par bay reg mod wit gau pri , whi bps can be der as fro the lim of an in ? nit num of ind -
den bet var .
the rep are som mor int for pra fam wit par mod .
how not all bay non - par mod can be exp in thi fas , and the do not nec mak cle the mat sub inv .
con and con rat
rec wor in mat sta exa the con pro of bay non mod , and in par the que of con and con rat .
int , a con est pro is a met tha wil res in a cor est if it has acc to an in ? nit amo of dat , tha is , a pro tha wil be acc unl it is ham by ins ? cie sam siz .
in bay sta , an est is a dis ove pos par val ( the pos ) , and hen con in bay mod is de ? ned by dem tha the pos con to a del pea at the tru par .
a cla the by j .
doo sho tha for any bay mod , the set of all pos tru par val for whi the mod wil be con has pro one und the pri .
in oth wor , if the tru par ( and hen the dat dis ) is cho at ran fro the pri , we wil alw end up wit a con mod , and a bay who is cer abo the pri nee not wor abo inc .
thi res doe not hol any if the tru par val is not in the dom of the pri .
in non mod - els , whi hav to spr out the pro mas ove an in ? nit - dim spa , thi can res in see unr beh of the mod .
for ex - amp , the dir pro may be use as a pri in den est .
its sup con of the dis dis , whi mea tha if the dat is dra fro any smo dis , the tru mod is not in the sup of the pri ( so doo the doe not app ) .
as sho by dia and fre ( 123 ) , the pos wil not nec con in a reg clo to the tru mod .
int , the imp is tha we can gen ass in non - par mod tha the e ? ect of the pri wil eve bec neg if onl we see eno dat .
how , thi doe not mea tha non bay mod are gen inc : a lar and gro lit in mat sta sho tha con can be gua by pro cho of an ade non mod ( 123 ) .
rec res , not by van der vaa and gho , app mod met - ods of mat sta to stu the con pro of bay non mod ( see ( 123 ) for fur ref ) .
con has bee es - tab for a num of mod , inc gau pro and dir pro mix .
a par int asp of thi lin of wor are re - sul on con rat , whi spe how rap the pos con wit gro sam siz , dep on the com of the mod and on how muc pro mas the pri pla aro the tru sol .
to mak suc res qua req a mea for the com of a bay non - par mod .
thi is don by mea of com mea dev in
emp pro the and sta lea the , suc as met ent , cov num and bra , som of whi are wel - kno in the mac lea .
exa of suc res inc the con of dir pro mix mod for den est if bot the tar den and the par mix com are smo , and a ran of con res for reg and den est wit gau pro .
for all of the res , con rat can be spe ? ed as wel ( ref are giv in ( 123 ) ) .
a lar cla of in ? nit - dim mod whi do beh wel eve if the tru par is not in the dom of the pri is ide ? ed in ( 123 ) .
in thi cas , the pos wil con in the reg of the pri sup whi is clo to the tru par in a kul - lei sen .
the are two asp to inf in bay non mod : the ana - lyt tra of pos for the sto pro emb in bay non mod , and pra inf alg for the ove mod - els .
bay non mod typ inc sto pro suc as the gau pro and the dir pro .
the pro hav an in ? nit num of dim thu na¡ ? ve alg app to com pos is gen inf .
for , the pro typ hav ana tra pos , so all but ? nit man of the dim can be ana int out e ? cie .
the rem dim , alo wit the par par of the mod , can the be han by the usu inf - enc tec emp in par bay mod , inc mar cha mon car , seq mon car , var inf , and mes - pas alg lik exp pro .
the pre cho of app - ima to use wil dep on the spe ? c mod und con , wit spe / acc tra - o ? s bet di ? ere tec gen fol tho for par mod .
in the fol , we wil giv two exa to ill - tra the abo poi , and dis a few the iss ass wit the ana tra of sto pro .
in gau pro reg , we mod the rel bet an inp x and an out y usi a fun f , so tha y ¡« f ( x ) +  whe  is iid gau noi .
giv a gp pri ove f and a ? nit tra dat set ( ( xi , yi ) ) n wis to com the pos ove f .
her we can use the wea rep of f and not tha ( f ( xi ) ) n i=1 is sim a ? nit - dim gau wit mea and cov giv by the mea and cov fun of the gp .
inf for ( f ( xi ) ) n i=1 is the str .
the app can be tho of equ as mar out the who fun exc its val on the tra inp .
not tha alt we onl hav the pos ove ( f ( xi ) ) n thi is su ? cie to rec the fun eva at any oth poi x12 ( say
i=1 giv ( f ( xi ) ) n
the tes inp ) , sin f ( x12 ) is gau and ind of the tra dat i=1
in gp reg the pos ove ( f ( xi ) ) n can be com exa .
in gp cla ? cat or oth reg set wit non lik fun , the typ app is to use spa met bas on var app or exp pro see gp ent ( ? ) for det .
our sec exa inv dir pro mix mod .
rec tha the dp ind a clu str on the dat ite .
if our tra set con of n dat ite , sin eac ite can onl bel to one clu , the are at mos n clu rep in the tra set .
eve tho the dp mix its has an in ? nit num of pot clu , all but ? nit man of the are not ass wit dat , thu the ass var nee not be exp rep at all .
thi can be und eit as mar out the var , or as an imp rep whi can be mad exp whe req by sam fro the pri .
thi ide is app for dp mix usi bot the chi res pro and the sti - bre rep - res .
in the crp rep , eac dat ite xi is ass wit a clu ind zi , and eac clu k wit a par ¦è ? k ( the par can be mar out if h is con to f ) , and the are the onl lat var - abl tha nee be rep in mem .
in the sti - bre rep , clu are ord by dec pri exp siz , wit clu k ass wit a par ¦è ? k and a siz ¦ðk .
eac dat ite is aga ass wit a clu ind zi , and onl the clu up to k = max ( z12 , .
, zn ) nee be rep .
all clu wit ind > k nee not be rep sin the pos con on ( ( xi , zi ) ) n
i=1 is jus the pri .
on bay equ and con
it is wor not tha the pos of a bay mod is , in abs ter , de ? ned as the con dis of the par giv the dat and the hyp , and thi de ? nit doe not req the exi of a if a bay equ exi for the mod , the pos can equ be de ? ned as the lef - han sid of the bay equ .
how for som sto pro , not the dp on an unc spa suc as r , it is not pos to de ? ne a bay equ eve tho the pos is sti a wel - de ? ned mat obj .
tec spe , exi of a bay equ req the fam of all pos pos to be dom by the pri , but thi is not the cas for the dp .
tha pos of the sto pro can be eva at all is sol due to the fac tha the adm an
the par for of tra exh by man sto pro in the lit is tha of a con pos , tha is , the pos bel to the sam mod fam as the pri , and the pos par can be com as a fun of the pri hyp and the obs dat .
for exa , the pos of a dp ( ¦á , g12 ) und obs ¦è1 , .
, ¦èn is aga a dir pro , dp ( ¦á + n ,
¦á+ ( ¦ág + ( cid : 123 ) ¦ä¦ ) ) .
sim the pos of a gp und
obs of f ( x12 ) , .
, f ( xn ) is sti a gp .
it is thi con tha all pra inf in the exa abo .
a bay non mod is con if and onl if the ele of its wea dis , i . e .
its ? nit - dim mar , hav a con str as wel ( 123 ) .
in par , thi cha a cla of con bay non mod who wea dis con of exp fam mod .
not how tha lac of con do not imp int pos .
an exa is giv by the pit - yor pro , whe the pos is giv by a sum of a ? nit num of ato and a pit - yor pro ind fro the ato .
sin mcm sam alg for dir pro mix bec ava - abl in the 123 and mad lat var mod wit non bay com app to pra pro , the dev of bay non - par has exp exp gro ( 123 , 123 ) .
arg , tho , the res ava so far hav onl scr the sur .
the rep of ava - abl mod is sti mos lim to usi the gau pro , the dir pro , the bet pro , and gen der fro tho .
ple , bay non mod may be de ? ned on any in ? nit - dim mat obj of pos int to mac lea and sta .
pos - sib exa are ker , in ? nit gra , spe cla of fun ( e . g .
pie - wis con or sob fun ) , and per .
asi fro the obv mod que , two maj fut dir are to mak bay non met ava to a lar aud of re - sea and pra thr the dev of sof pac , and to und and qua the the pro of ava met .
gen - pur sof pac
the is cur sig ? can gro in the app of bay non - ric mod acr a var of app dom bot in mac lea and in sta .
how sig ? can hur sti exi , esp the exp and exp nee to dev com pro for inf in the com mod .
one fut dir is thu the dev of sof pac tha can com e ? cie inf alg aut giv mod spe ? ca - tio , thu all a muc wid ran of mod to mak use of the mod .
cur dev inc the r dpp , the hie bay com - pil , ada gra , the mit - chu pro , as wel as e ? ort to add bay non mod to the rep of cur bay mod
env lik ope and inf . net
sta pro of mod
rec wor in mat sta pro som ins int the qua - tit beh of bay non mod ( cf the sec ) .
the ele , met app und the res , whi qua ? es mod com by mea of emp pro the and the der con rat as a fun of the com , sho be app to a wid ran of mod .
so far , how , onl res for gau pro and dir pro - ces mix hav bee pro , and it wil be of gre int to est pro for oth pri .
som mod dev in mac lea , suc as the in ? nit hmm , may pos new cha to the met , sin the stu wil pro hav to dra on bot the the of alg and mat sta .
onc a wid ran of res is ava , the may in tur ser to gui the dev of new mod , if it is pos to est how di ? ere met of mod con a ? ect the sta pro of the con mod .
dir pro , gau pro , bay met , pri pro .
in add to the ref emb in the tex abo , we rec the boo ( 123 , 123 ) and the rev art ( 123 , 123 ) on bay non .
ref for dps and dp mix mod can be fou in the dp ent ( ? ) , for gps in the gp ent ( ? ) , whi for mos of the oth exa can be fou in the cha ( 123 ) of the boo ( 123 ) .
was .
all of non sta .
spr , 123
dun .
non bay app to bio .
hjo , c .
hol , p .
m¡§ , and s .
wal , edi , bay non - par .
cam uni pre , 123
teh and m .
jor .
hie bay non mod wit app .
hjo , c .
hol , p .
m¡§ , and s .
wal , edi , bay non .
cam uni pre , 123
de fin .
fun car di un fen ale .
att del r .
aca naz dei lin , ser 123
mem , cla di sci fis , mat e nat , 123 , 123
dia and d .
fre .
on the con of bay est ( wit
dis ) .
ann of sta , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
gho .
the dir pro , rel pri and pos asy .
hjo , c .
hol , p .
m¡§ , and s .
wal , edi , bay non - par .
cam uni pre , 123
kle and a .
van der vaa .
mis ? cat in in ? nit -
dim bay sta .
ann of sta , 123 : 123 , 123
orb .
con of non bay mod fro par - in adv in neu inf pro
met bay equ .
esc and m .
bay den est and inf usi mix .
jou of the ame sta ass , 123 : 123
( 123 ) r .
mar cha sam met for dir pro mix mod .
jou of com and gra sta , 123 : 123 ,
( 123 ) n .
hjo , c .
hol , p .
m¡§ , and s .
wal , edi .
bay non - met .
num 123 in cam ser in sta and pro mat .
cam uni pre , 123
( 123 ) j .
gho and r .
ram .
bay non .
spr ,
( 123 ) s .
wal , p .
dam , p .
lau , and a .
bay non inf for ran dis and rel fun .
jou of the roy sta soc , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
( 123 ) p .
m¡§ and f .
qui .
non bay dat ana .
sta sci , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
