in te of ir or ce , al ic ge ls ( ms ) re - in ar ss ly ed an n - am od - ls ue to ir ly ng ng es , ch re ed in ks en or ly - ed ts .
ng ms is ly ve se ey re ly ed , ch ds to av - ng to er ll ds in he ry en ng he og - od ts .
we se a st nd le hm or ng ms ed on se - ve on , a ly ed re or ng ed us ri - ns .
we te he ur of he hm on he nn nk us nd ow at it es he ng es by re an an er of de ut af - ng he ty of he ng ls .
he hm is so re nt nd ch re le an ce ng be - se it es ar er se es to
we te he ty of he ro - ed ch by ng al al ge ls on a 3m - rd us th a 3k - rd ry , ng te - of - he - rt ts on he ft ch ce on ge et .
ng in gs of he 23 th al er - ce on ne ng , gh , nd , uk , 23
ht 23 by he or ( s ) / er ( s ) .
by ng es to es , ge od - ls ow ng en le nd ob - le es , ch es ch ls an or - nt nt of ch on , ne ns - on , nd on al ms .
is - ic ge ls re ly ed on he ov on , ch ns at ey el he di - al on of he xt rd in a ce en me ed er of ds at ly de it .
he up of ds ed on is ed he xt , ed h , le he rd ng ed is ed he et rd , ed w .
n - am ls , ch re ly ed es of ed rd / xt co - ce ts , ve ed ge ng or es ue to ir ty nd nt ce .
in he st ew rs al ge ls ve be - me ve th n - ms nd ow ly ut - rm em ( ov et al . , 23 ) .
ms el he on or he xt rd as a th on of ed ti - al al - ed ta - ns of he xt ds nd he et rd .
ar ns re ed or ds at re ed in ar ys , ng at he rk ts mi - ar ty es or em .
rd ns ed by ge ls re so ed or tu - al ge ng ns ch as ic le ng ( rt & on , 23 ) , nt is ( as & ng , 23 ) , ed ty on ( an et al . , 23 ) , nd ng ( er et al . , 23 ) .
ly , ms re ry ow to in , ch es em ng or ge - le ns .
is is a ce of ng to er he re ry en ng he ty of a le rd or he ng nt .
in ct , he me ty of is on es as he ct
a st nd le hm or ng al ic ge ls
of he ry ze nd he rd re en - ty .
ne ay to te is on is to ce he ry ze or he lm by ng it to ct ly he st nt ds nd ng he st ng an n - am el ( nk & in ,
ly , he ry an be ed to a ee th ds at he es , ng ly er on of rd es nd ir ra - ts ( in & io , 23 ) .
ly , he ve ce of he ng el is av - ly nt on he ee ed nd ng a od ee is a lt em ( ih & on , 23 ) .
ps a re nt ch is to ep he el he me nd to te he ve nt ns ng ce ng ( io & al , 23 ) .
ly , he ce in he im - ce ng es an ke ng ta - le , ss it is ly ed ( io & al ,
in is er we se an nt hm or ng ms ed on se - ve ma - on ( nn & en , 23 ) , ch is ch re le an ce ng .
gh it so es ng to te he ts ed or ng , er he er of es or he al on re ic on or ng ce on ar th um li -
al ic ge ls
ey se : al ge ls rn ir es ly th er rs , le um py ls se ed nd - ed es nd ly rn he ts or se es .
a al ge el ts ch rd in he ry ng a al - ed re or nd es he ng nc - on in ms of he re rs of he xt ds nd he xt rd .
in me ls , nt re or es re ed or he xt nd he xt rd es ( io et al . , 23 ) , le in th - rs he le is ed ( io et al . , 3; ih &
he re rs nt or he st ty of pa - rs in al ge ls , ch ns at ir ry ts re ar in he bu - ry ze .
is es ly to he ry re - ts of he n - am ls , ch re ly ar in he ng et ze .
og - ar el
he ng od we se is ly le to ll al ic nd um - py an - ge ls .
or ty , we ll rm ur ex - ts ng he og - ar ge ( bl ) el ( ih & on , 23 ) , ch is he st eu - al ge el .
he bl el ms in - ar on in he ic rd re ce nd es ot ve on - es .
in te of ts ic - ty , he bl el as en wn to rm n - ms , gh he re ex al ge ls ( ov et al . , 3; ih et al . , 23 ) an
a al ge el is ly a on of al ns or he xt rd , ed by ts xt . 23 in a al ge el he di - al on ng to xt h , p h ( w ) , is ed as
w ( id : 23 ) xp ( s ( w ( id : 23 ) , h ) )
re s ( w , h ) is he ng on th rs ch es he ty of rd w th xt h .
he ed ng on is es ed to as he gy on ( io et al . , 23 ) .
ng on he rm of s ( w , h ) , eq .
23 an de - be th al nd um py ge ls ( er et al . , 23 ) .
he in ce en se wo el es es in he es
gh st ll al ge ls ct he xt rd , it is so le to el he on of he rd ng he xt or ed by he
in is er we ll se a ly ed on of he bl el at es te re or es or he xt ds nd he et ds .
us a xt rd w ll be ed th re or rw , le a et rd w ll be ed th ea - re or qw .
en a xt h , he el es he ed on or he et rd by ly ng he re rs or he xt ds ng on - nt xt ht ri -
he re or he ch en he xt nd he xt rd is ed by ng he ot ct be - en he ed on nd he en - on of he te et rd w : s ( w , h ) = q ( id : 23 ) qw + bw .
a st nd le hm or ng al ic ge ls
re bw is he se te er ed to el he ty of w .
he ty of w in xt h is en ed by ng he ve re on to eq
um od ng
um od ng of al ge od - ls is le ut ve se ng he og - od es me ar in he ry ze .
he on of a le on - xt / rd on to he nt of he og - od is en by
og p h
s ( w , h ) ( id : 23 )
s ( w , h ) ep h
( w ( id : 23 ) ) is ve to te he on w . r . t .
p h se it es ng s ( w , h ) or ll ds in he ry .
ce es ly on - in ns of ds of ds , um od ng ds to be ry ow .
ce ng
io nd al ( 23 ) ve ed a od or ng up ng of al ge ls ed on ng he on in eq .
23 us - ng ce ng .
he ea is to te k es 23 , . . . , xk om an sy - to - le - om ri - on qh ( w ) nd te he nt th
og p h
s ( w , h ) 23
nd v = ( id : 23 ) k
re v ( x ) = xp ( s ( x , h ) ) 23 v ( xj ) .
he on by v is ry re se he im - ce ts v re ed ng he al - ed el on xp ( s ( x , h ) ) .
ly he al on is an n - am el t to he ng et , ly th a xt ze nt om he al ls .
gh is ch is ly le , it is on - al to se in ce se he gh ce of he ce ng es an ke rn - ng le .
he ce ds to ow as rn - ng es , se he el on es ay om he al on . 23 ne ay to
io nd al ( 23 ) ue at is ns be -
ol he ce is to ep ng he er of es ng ng so at he ve am - le ze ys ve me ed ue ( en - io & al , 23 ) .
ly , he n - am ro - al on an be ed to ck he el on ut ng ( io & al , 23 ) .
he st ch is er ut ss e - nt se he ng er of es es ng er .
he nd ch ds to er ps ut is ly re lt to le - nt nd es al ry or ng he ve al on .
se - ve on
we se ng se - ve on ( ce ) as a re le ve to ce ng or nt ng of al ge ls nd er ls ed by eq .
ce as ly en in - ed by nn nd en ( 23 ) or in - ng ed ic ls .
gh it as en ed or ng ty es , we re ed in ng it to te ns nd so ll me te ns nd se ob - ty ss ns ad of ty ns .
he ic ea of ce is to ce he em of ty on to at of ry on , is - ng en es om he ta bu - on nd es om a wn se on .
in he ge ng ng , he ta on d ( w ) ll be he on of ds at ur af - er a ar xt h .
gh it is le to se xt - nt se ns , or ty we ll se a xt - nt ( am ) pn ( w ) .
we re ed in ng he xt - nt el p h
( w ) to p h
ng nn nd en ( 23 ) , we me at se es re k es re nt an ta es , so at ts me om he re 23 p h 23 pn ( w ) .
en he or ty at le w me om he ta on is
d ( w ) + k
p h ( d = |w ) =
d ( w ) + pn ( w )
ce we ld ke to t p h ce of p h a on of he el rs :
d in eq .
23 , ng he or ty
d , we se p h
to p h
p h ( d = |w , ) =
( w ) + pn ( w )
se al ge ls nd n - am ls rn ry nt ns .
a st nd le hm or ng al ic ge ls
is ty an be oo ve to te , ow - er , se of he on ed or al - ng p h ( w ) ( eq .
ce ps is ue by ng it on nd ng al - on ts as rs .
us he el is ed in ms of an ed bu - on p 23 23 nd a ed er ch ng to he hm of he ng nt :
( w ) = p 23
23 ( w ) xp ( ch ) .
re 23 re he rs of he ed is - on nd = ( 23 , ch ) .
to t he xt - nt el to he ta ( or he nt ng he ct at it es rs th ls or er ts ) , we ly ze he on of og p h ( |w , ) er he re of he ta nd se es .
is ds to he ve
( xi ) pn ( xi ) re ys be - te at he ts en 23 nd 23 , ch es ce - ed ng ry le ( nn & en , 23 ) .
in st , he ts ed by ce ng an be ar -
ce he ns or nt ts re pa - rs , we ot rn se ns en - ly of ch er by ng ne j h ( ) at a me .
ad , we ne a al ce ve by in - ng he er - xt ce es ng he al xt es p ( h ) as ts :
p ( h ) j h ( ) .
te at is is he al ch or in - ng he er - xt ml es or ng al
ng th ng ts
ur al on of ce ng ed a ( og - ) ng nt ( c in eq .
23 ) or ch on - xt in he ng et , ng em in a sh le ed by he xt . 23 gh is ch ks ll or ll ts , it es ng ne pa - er er xt , ng it lt to le to ge rs of ed ts ed by ls th ge xt es .
ly , we ed at ng he ng ts to 23 , 23 ad of ng em , id ot ct he ce of he ng ls .
we ve is is se he el as so ny ee rs at ng he xi - te er - xt on nt ed by he ve on is sy .
og p h
al up
j h ( ) ep h
( w ) + pn ( w )
( w ) + pn ( w )
th he nt
j h ( ) ep h
( w ) + pn ( w )
og p h
( w ) + pn ( w )
og p h
te at he nt an so be ed as
j h ( ) =
( w ) + pn ( w ) d ( w ) p h
nd at as k ,
j h ( ) ( id : 23 )
d ( w ) p h
og p h
ch is he um od nt .
us as he io of se es to ns es , he ce nt es he um od
in ce , en a rd w ed in xt h , we te ts on to he nt by ng k se es 23 , . . . , xk nd ng he la
j h , w ( ) =
( w ) + pn ( w )
( xi ) + pn ( xi )
og p h
og p h
we ll ow re he nt on ts or ce nd ml ng .
se c is he xt ze , d is he rd re or ty , nd v is he ry ze of he el .
en om - ng he ed on ng eq .
23 es ut 23 ns or th ce nd ml .
or ml , ng he on of he xt rd om he ed on es ut v d ns .
or ce , ng he ty of k se es er he el es ut kd ns .
ce he nt on in ch el as he me om - ty as ng he es , he up or
we id ot se he ed ng ts en ng he on nd st et es .
er we ed he es ly .
is ts to ng he ng rs c
a st nd le hm or ng al ic ge ls
le 23
ts or he bl el th 3d re ec - rs nd a 23 - rd xt on he nn nk us .
er of st ng
le 23
he ct of he se on nd he um - er of se es on he st et ty .
ch er te ue to ng ce is ut
23 + v d 23 + kd
cd + v cd + k
or a el th a 23 - rd xt , 3d re ec - rs , nd a ry ze of 3k , an ce te ng 23 se es ld be ut 23 es er an an ml te .
ce he me ty of ng he ed on is ic in he re or di - ty , it an te he st of he er te , ng ng ow en or a ll er of se es .
we an id is by ng xt ht es ci al , ng he ty of ng he ed on to cd , nd ng he up or +v +k .
or he el ve is ld nt to a or of 23
he se of di - al xt es as ed by ih & on ( 23 ) to ed up ir al bl - ke
ce he st of a er te or ce - ng - ed ng is he me as or ce th he me er of se es , he hm at ds er es to rm ll ll be er .
nn nk ts
we ed he es of he ed go - hm ly on he nn nk us .
as is on ce , we ed on ns 23 - 23 ( 3k
ds ) nd ed ns 23 - 23 ( 3k ds ) as he al - on et nd ns 23 - 23 ( 3k ds ) as he st et .
he rd ry of 3k st nt ds as ed th he ng ds ed by a al en .
we se to se is et to ep he ng me or ct um od rn -
he ng es re ed at he nd of ch ch ed on he ge in he on et er - ty ce he nd of he us ch .
he es re ed en he ty ed nd re ft ed se .
rs re ed ed on ni - es of 23 xt / rd rs ch .
pt en ed se , ce ng ed 23 se es om he al am on er xt / rd on .
se am - es re ed ew or ch te .
we id ot se a ht ty as he on - re - ed ng te on ed to be nt to id ng .
ll ls ed a wo - rd xt nd nt 3d re or es or xt nd et ds .
ur st nt ed ml ng to ce ng or us rs of se es .
he re - ng st es nd ng es re wn in le 23
it is ar at ng he er of se es es er - ng ls , th 23 es ng nt to ch he ml - in ms of ng me , ce as 23 es er an ml .
he er of se am - es id ot ve a nt ct on he ng me se ng he ed on as ly re ve an ng he ty of ( at st ) 23 es .
he in ea - on he up or as ss an 23 ( he ue re - ed in on 23 ) is se ce ok ut ce as ny hs as ml to ge .
ur ce le - on is so ss ed an he ml le - on ch es er ge of he as
to re he ct of he se on on he ce of he hm , we ed ng se es om he am as ll as he rm on .
or ch se on we ed ls ng 23 , 23 , 23 , nd 23 se es er at - nt .
as wn in le 23 , he am se is - on ds to ch er st et ty in ll es .
er , he ty ap ks as he er of se es es , om st 23 or a le se le wn to er 23 or 23 se es .
in te of or st et ce , a rm se on id ot ad to ng
a st nd le hm or ng al ic ge ls
ty en en a le se le as ed .
in on to he ml nd ce ms , we so ed he ce ng ng go - hm om ( io & al , 23 ) to se as a se - ne , ut nd it ry le .
it ed in ly ll of ur ts , en th ve le ze nd he et ve le ze et to ds .
he ly un at id ot ge ed ng a am el ng he et am as he ro - al on , ch is he al on or im - ce ng .
he se of re in ll es as he ce of ly ge ce ts ce he el on me ly er - nt om he am al 23 , ch is a wn em th ce ng .
ce is - ed ds em to re ll er a ed es er nt on ( io & al , 23 ) , en en an ve al on is ed , we ct is - ed ng to be er - ly er an ce , ch , as we ve wn , an ve ml - el ce th ly 23 se am -
ce on ge
to te he ty nd ss of ur ch we ed it to in al ge eu - al ge ls or he ft ch en - ce on ge ( ig & es , 23 ) .
he ge as ed as a rk or an - ic ls nd ts of at - le ce le - on ms .
en 23 , 23 es , ch of ch is ng a rd , he sk is to ct he ct rd ut of he ve es ed or ch ce .
te ds ve en en om ly in - nt ds ng a um py el to re at he ng te es re ot oo le .
an es en ed he st ur es or ch ce so at ll le - ns re ly ct ut he ct an - er as us .
gh ns an ve er 3% cy on he sk , al ls re ch se th he st lt of 3% ed by a le - ce sa el , nd n - am ls ng ly ut 3% cy ( ig & es ,
al ge ls re a al ce or is sk se ey an ke ge of er on - ts an al n - am ls , ch we ct
gh ng a am al on ht ar ve , io nd al ( 23 ) ed at er - er n - am al ns ed ch se an he am .
to be nt or ce on .
we ed a ly ed bl re or ur ls or is sk .
in he ts of ty , we ed ag - al xt ht es ch ed he me ty of nt ns om ic to ar in he ty of rd re rs nd ed us to se re re ns .
ce he sk as ce on , we de he od - ls re of ce es by ng a al ut - of - ce en or ds in xt ns de of he ce ng he rd ng re - ed .
or le , is en ld be ed as he xt rd en ng he st rd in a en - ce ng a el th a le - rd xt .
we re a te ce th a ge el by ng it to te he ty of ch rd in he ce nd ng he ct of se il - es as he ce re .
we en ck he te rd at es he st - ng ce as ur er .
te at is ay of ng a el th a c - rd xt es to nt c ds on th es of he te rd se he es of he c ds ng he te rd nd on it .
he ls re ed on he rd ng et or he ge ng 23 ks om ct rg .
er ng he ct rg rs nd rs om he es , we it em to es nd en ed he es to ds .
we ed he kt ce er nd he nn nk rd er om tk ( rd et al . , 23 ) .
we en ed ll ds to se nd ed he es at ed er an 23 es th an wn rd en , ng in a ab - ry ze of st er 23 , 23
he es to be ed re ed in he me er .
he ng et as en ly it at he en - ce el to a st nd on ts of 3k ds ( 23 es ) ch nd a 3m - rd ng et .
we ed he ng re ed in on 23 , th he on of ng a ll ht ty to id ng .
ch el ok en ne nd wo ys to in on a le re of a rn pu .
as a ne or on , we so ed al n - am ls ( th ed er - ey ng ) ng he lm it ( ke , 23 ) , ng ts ar to se ed by ig & es
ce we ed rs ed on he ( rg ) on et ty , we rt he es on he re on of 23 , 23 es , ch ns at ur ts re ly le to se of ig & es ( 23 ) .
as an be en om ta -
a st nd le hm or ng al ic ge ls
le 23
cy on he te sr ce om - on ge et .
n 23 es a al xt .
he sa lt is om ( ig & es , 23 ) .
xt nt nt st
le 23 , re rd es nd er xt ds to er ce in bl ls in ms of th ac - cy nd ty .
he bl ls rm on - ly er on ce on an n - am ls , in te of ng er st ty .
en he bl el th a wo - rd xt ms et - er an ny n - am el .
he bl el th a ve - rd xt , es he st ed lt on he et .
te at he sa el at ro - ed at lt ed ll ds in a ce , le an bl el th a c - rd ts rs ly he 3c ds at nd he te rd .
he el th a 23 - rd xt nd 3d re rs ms he sa el by a ge ar - in nd ts a ew cy rd or he et at
ge ls ly se he ds ng he rd of st as he xt .
er , ce we re ed in ng in a rd in he le of he ce , it es se to se th he ng nd he ng ds as he xt or he an - ge el , ng he xt al .
we ed al bl ls th al on - xt to ee er ch ls re or to ir al - xt ts or ce om - on .
ng a ce th a al el is th er nd er : we ly te he ty of he te rd er he el us - ng he xt ng he rd .
us a el is ed ly ce er ce , ad of 23 es ed by he al ls .
as le 23 ws , he bl ls th al
ts ve ch er st ty an ir al ts , ch is ot ng be - se ey so on on ds at ow he rd ng ed .
at is ng , er , is at al ts ar to be er - ly ss ve or ce on an di - al ts .
gh he c - rd xt el nd c 23 - rd xt el ok at he me ds en ng he ng es we ed ve , he al el ms to ke er se of he le on .
we ve ed a le nd nt od or ng al ge ls ed on se - ve on .
ur ts ow at he ng hm is ry le nd an ce od - ls at rm as ll as he es ed ng xi - um od in ss an ne - th of he me .
in a ge - le st of he ch , we ed al eu - al ge ls on a on of ct en - rg ts , ng te - of - he - rt ce on he ft ch ce on al -
gh we ve wn at he am se ri - on is nt or ng al ge ls ly , xt - nt se ns re th ng se ey ht ad to en er ng by ng he er of se am -
ly , ja et al .
( 23 ) ed a ly of on ds or ed ls at in - es ce nd ce ng as al es .
er rs of is ly ht be of st or ng ge ls , gh ur ry re - ts st at ne of em rm ce .
ly , we ve at ce an be ed to ny ls er an al or um - py an - ge ls .
ic rs th ny es re a me te .
we nk ak ao nd yd ot or ir lp - ul ts .
we nk he by le un - on or us ng .
