we be a ly - ed , ed ng hm at ds a on - ar ve el or rs of ce es om he me al .
ls re en ed by ng he st ve ty ir ng ll rs at st of a st ge nd an ge se ty is wn .
ur od es ly th er ds in he re .
he ve el ts of a le er of te - ed , on - ar re rs nd it as he ty at , en a ta or , he ue or ty on er he re or es an be ed ly ut on or on .
he ts of he re rs re ed by om - ng he ns of el es nd re ns in wo es : en he rk is ng al ta nd en it is ng ns of al ta ed om he re ns .
ce on is lt en he er of ls is ge nd he st nd in - ng es of an al er in on , ng or he te on ch ey re en .
in on to ng an nt on , ce on ws us to te nt ds of hm or ng to ze or re ts , ce it es te on of ne ve es in he ce of ly ge in - al ns .
is is de en re lt en re re ry ew rs of ch al .
we rt by ng a ew ed ng hm or a ed rm of tz - nn ne ( 23 ) .
we en ow ow to ze he ve el nd he ng hm to al th al - ed el es nd te - ed re rs .
we en er ve ys of ng he te - ed el to ce on .
23 ce nd ng in ed nn es
a ed nn ne ( 23 ) as a er of le ts nd a le er of id - en ts th no en - to - en ns .
ce in an bm is ch er an
in a al nn ne nd it is so ch er an in a al ef et be - se re is no ng ay ( 23 ) .
re is re no ed to rm ny on to ne he es of he en ts .
he en es , j , re ly in - nt en he le es , i , nd he on of j is en by he rd
j = 23 =
23 ex i ij i
ly , he en es of an bm re ly nt so it is sy or an bm to rn on es in ch ts ay be ly ed .
it is rd to do is in al ef ts th ne en er se he ve el of a al ef et es al ce .
an bm an be ed ng he rd nn ne ng hm ch ws a sy ut ed te of he nt of he og od of he ta .
ne ay to nt is hm is to rt he rk th a ta or on he le ts nd en to te en ng ll of he en ts in el nd ng ll of he le ts in el .
ch te ks a ry te or a it om ts or on en he nt es of ll he ts in he er et .
if is ng bs ng is un to um , re is a ry le ay to te he ts so as to ze he ck - er ce , 23 , en he ta ed by he bm ( 23 ) :
23 , nd he um on of es er he le ts ,
ij / j> 23 j> 23
re < ij > 23 is he ed ue of ij en ta is ed on he le ts nd he en es re ed om ir al on en he ta , nd j> 23 is he ed ue of ij er ed bs ng .
is ng le es ot rk ll se it an ke a ng me to ch al um nd he ng se in he te of < j> 23 an mp he nt .
on ( 23 ) ws at it is ar re ve to ze he ce en 23 is he on of he ne - ep ns of he ta at re ed by st ng ry en es om ir al on en he ta nd en ng ry le es om ir al on en he en es .
he ct nt of is ve ce is ed se 23 ds on he ts , ut is ce an ly be ed to ld a le nd ve ng le or ng he te nt of he
ij / j> 23 j> 23
23 ng ms to ce on
or es of es , ry ls re ar om al .
a le ay to se he ep - al er ut ng he ce nd ng es is to ne at ch le it , i , as 23 as ch ll ve al ts to he en ts .
so ar as he en ts re ed , it es no ce ch ar as re ed on : it is ly he er of ve as at ts .
so a el an ow ve 23 nt es .
ng on of he ge om he en es , ll he as an re he on of he ty , i , of ng on , nd en we an ct as to be on th ty 23 23 3i .
we ly at - ed is al on by st ng a le an se to 23 i nd ng .
he me ck an be ed or he en ts .
23 is ed pt at i nd j re ow he er of ve as .
he ca ck an be ed as a ap ay of ng an le of ns by ng ey ve al ts .
ly , it an be en as a ay of ng a le on er a me al in ch it ay ce le es at te a te - de .
or is on we ll he el te .
we ed at he le ts an ce up to 23 es nd he en ts an ce up to 23 es .
we so de wo er ns : we ed i nd j in eq .
23 by ir ed es nd we ed he ed ue of i en ng he ty of on of he en ts .
er , we ed to se he ly en er ng es of he en ts en ng he ne - ep ns of he ta , so he en es ot it an ed nt of on om he ta to he
a le ay to se te or ce on is to in a le el on he ng et , nd fy a ce by ng he ry ge at es a en ty or at is st ar to he ne ed by he ce .
is is ow es re ed or on , ut it es ot rk ll se it es ot ke to nt he ct at me ns ss es re nt or on , le me ns re ot .
to ct is , we ad ed an te el on rs of nt es of he me al , nd en we ed is el of rs to de ch ry ge is st ed th he st ge .
to nt or he ct at he el es me al ce es re an rs , we ne he t en wo es f 23 nd 23 as 3; 23 3; 23 3; 23 3; 23 re 3; 23 is he ss re of he ge ir 3; 23 er he el .
he ss re is he ve ee gy ch is an ve on of he al ut ed by ch en it .
ch en it as a et of ts ng to ch ge in he ir , nd ht - ng is ot ed , ce 3; 23 3= 3; 23
er , to ve ry , ch ir of es of he me al 3; 23 in he ng et as a ed ir v 3; 23 in he et .
we ed he el th 23 en ts on 23 ge rs ( 23 ct rs ) or 23 ns in es of 23 , th a ng te of 23 : 23 23 23 or he ts , a ng te of 23 23 or he es , nd a um of 23 : 23
ne ge of es er on is at ce he st ge as en ed to a or of ce ns , ns of st nd ry es an be de in he ow - al ce of ce ns er an he gh - al ce of el es .
he me es to ur ce - ir rk .
he al ut to ch en it om ch ry ge an be ed nd ed , le he al ut om a st ge ly ds to be ed ce or ns th ll ry es .
23 he et se
ur on of he et se ed 23 al ce es of 23 ls en er a od of a ew rs er ng ng ns .
of se es , 23 re ed as th he ry nd he ng et nd he ng 23 re ed to ur , nt st ts : he on st et ns 23 es of nt ls .
se ls ll ve er ge in he ng et at as en th he me ng ns at he me me ut th a nt on .
he ng et so es a er 23 rs of es at er ly in on .
he ys st et ns 23 es at me om 23 ls .
ch of se ls as wo es om he me on in he ng et nd wo es en in a on 23 ys er or er in he st et .
a er 23 ls re ed 23 ys rt nd ll 23 of se es re in he ng et .
re 23 : es re ed in ve es : a ) al e; b ) te rs of es by d; c ) te e; d ) op ge nd le at 23 23 s; e ) sk ut ll of he nd nd me of he ce , ng 23 ls in an al e; f ) ze he ty am .
re 23 : es of ed es .
he hs st et is st ke he ys st et pt at he me en ns as at st ee hs nd nt ng ns re nt in he wo ns .
is et ns 23 es of 23 ls .
a er 23 es of 23 re ls re ed in he ng et .
he es st et ns 23 es of 23 nt ls .
ch of se id - ls as wo es in he ng et at re en in er on on he me ay .
he ng nd st rs or an al er in at ne ir as es nd he er es ot .
he ng et es a er 23 es , lf th es nd lf ut , om 23 re ls .
he al ce es de he le ad , ts of he er nd ck , nd ck - nd .
ad of ng on he le es , ch in ch nt ma - on , we ed on ce es at re ed as wn in re 23
ng ut ll of he nd ly es he ur of he ce ch ns ch im - ve on .
he am on ep es st ng ts , ut it so es me nt on ke he in ne .
or he st ce , he ur pe nd in ne ld ve to be ed as an al ce of ve on .
me es of he ed es re wn in re 23
23 ve ts
we ed te th ur ar ce on ds .
he st nd st is on ( 23 ) , ch ns he ty re as he le en wo es ed as rs of el es .
is ed er an ng he an ce as a re .
he nd od is es ( 23 ) , ch st ts he es to he al
rr en er ca te
rr en er ca te
rr en er ca te
rr en er ca te
re 23 : or es of ll ds on ll st ts .
nt es , en ns he ty re as he le en he ed es .
we ed 23 al ts , ce we et er ts as we se he er of ts .
we so ed he st al nt , as we ed ly at it es ly or ng ns .
is ed he on es on ll he be ts pt or on .
he rd od is es ( 23 ) .
ad of ng he es to he ce of he al ts , ch es he ce ng he ed es , es ts he es to a ce ch , at he me me , es he en al es nd es he in al es in he ng et .
we ed a ce of on 23
he al od , ch we ll ll ca , is ed by nd et al ( 23 ) .
is od ls es en es of he me al as a ca ( 23 ) , nd es en es of nt ls as er ca .
en en a ce ge , it ns as he ty re he od io of he ce ge er he wo p - ca ls .
it as he st ng hm in he er 23 et st ( 23 ) nd is ly se an te on ur st ts .
we ed 23 nd 23 al as or he st nd nd el ly .
se re he me rs ed by nd et al nd es he st ts .
re 23 ws he or es of ll ve ds on ll ur st ts .
on nd es rm ly on on , ly se ey do ot pt to re he in - al ns , as he er ds do .
ll he ls id ry ly on he hs st et ch is te as is is he st et at is st ke al ns .
en he or te of he st ch is gh , it is ng to re ds by ng he te at ch ct es ar in he op ew es .
on hs , or le , te rs to be se an on ut it is ar re ly to ve he ht er in ts op 23 es .
er , he hs st et is ny so he es re le .
re 23 ws at er ur ng ,
re 23 : on he ft is a be ge om hs nd on he ht re he op 23 es to he be ed by te .
st an rs ot nd he ct ch in se 23
an rs so ve at ty th he hs st et , ly se he sk is ly lt nd is de en er by he ss of ur nd in ne on ed th he ng al ur ed by ng ut ll of he nd .
23 ve ds ed by te
he op lf of re 23 ws he ts of a ew of he en ts er ng .
ll he ts de al es , ly se he ge on es at re re ng ng ge ns in el es .
he um ze of he ts is 23 : 23 , th st ts ng es er an 23 : 23
te , er , at he en it ns ge om 23 to 23
on he ft re 23 ts ng ng es nd on he ht re 23 ts en at om .
he op it of he st mn ms to be ng he ce of he in th es .
he om it ms to be ng or nt ht ws in th es .
te at se re al es ch en in nt ss es of he me al .
in he nd mn re wo es ch em to de or nt al ns in he wo es .
he ht de of he op it es a le le he ft de is ss .
is is ed in he om it .
so he rk as ed me es ch re ly nt ss es in he me ss , nd me es ch an er ly in a ss .
ed by ( 23 ) , we ed to ce al es by ng he ts to be on - ve .
he om lf of re 23 ws me of he en ve ds ed by te en ed th on - ve ts .
pt or he 23 es on he ft , ll er es re al nd de or es ke th pe es ( rd mn ) nd es nd ks ( th mn ) .
he 23 es on he ft re ch re al nd ly re he ct at he on of he ng an er or wo es of he me on .
ly , ng he ts to be on - ve ly ts he al er of te nd es it se an ll he er ds on ll he st ts ( pt or ca on hs ) .
we ve ed a ew od or ce on ed on a on - ar ve el .
he on - ar ve el an be ry ex , et ns he cy ed or ns .
od ce is ed on he et se .
re is ty of om or er nt ng or ge to in he ts or al rs of en ts to el he ns of re or es .
re 23 : le es ed by te .
ch ir of fs es a re .
op lf : th ed s; om lf : th on - ve ht ts .
