we ow te od ce ng is le or a et of ly nd ly ed ce es .
ur et is 23 , 23 ce es , ed by ng a ce er to ly lf a on ed ws im - es .
is et is re ic an al ce og - on ts , se it ns es ed in he ld in a ty of ns th ct to he am - ra , ng a ty of ns , nd er na - on of ly ng or .
ch ce ge is ed th a et of es , ly ed om he as - ed on .
ny , ut ot ll ch ts in he
we er ce es in te nt co - es .
we se a ng re to ak gu - es in ng nd fy ly ed es .
a ng re en es ts of es at re - er to he me al .
he ng on an be ed to el es in ws es or to ze ws es by ls nt .
an ve ew of ur re is as a ss at ns up sy ed ta .
we te ow to se py es to te ch es .
it is rd to in us ts of es , th ed ns .
es de : ns of um al ( 23 ) ; he el on of s; ny eo th nd or ed g; es ed om he eb th ir ng eb s; or ed
ng ly ed ta is a ly ud - ed me in on ch .
ge ns ay ly nd ly ly be ed th ds , en gh he ds re ot ed to he ns in he et ly ( 23 , 23 ) .
or le , ls ed nd es nd re - ns ay be ed om a et of le es
re ne er es re in he ge he cy - le es ( or es , ee ( 23 , 23 ) ; or ls in ic es nd in eo , ee ( 23 , 23 ) ; or a ge of ts , ee ( 23 ) ) .
in is er , we ow at es nd es an be ed in an us et , te rs nd es in er me on , in ce on nd in ce .
ce on is ll ed , nd ot be ed ly in he ce le .
ly ce on is ne in ( 23 , 23 ) nd is ed in ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ur em is ly nt om ce on , in at it is re nt to fy nt es ch an be ed to sh en es , en or ls ot ed in he et an to fy he es .
as a lt , we us on ng he ca / da od - gy , er an on ng a ti - ss er .
ur nt rk is a ry or to al ld ce on ry : ng ge nd ic ts of ed ta or on .
we an ge st rk by ng it to ne at es ht be ul or ng ar es .
he al ch es ng ly ed ta ms to te nt es
( on 23 ) .
we en se a on of - ns to te
ly ed es to ne of ir ls ( on 23 ) .
ce is is ne , we an up he rs by ng ta ms ar om he an , nd re - te nt or - es ( on 23 ) .
ly , we ge rs ed on al es ( on 23 ) .
we ow ve nd ve ts in on 23
we ve ed a et ng of ly lf a on ws es nd ns om oo ws er a od of ly wo rs .
es : ng he ce or of ( 23 ) we ct 23 , 23 ce es ( ze 23 or er th nt ce de - on es nd ed to 23 ls ) .
ce se es re en in he ld er an er ed
me es ve he ng ls at ur in tu - al ge ms .
we ct at ce es ly ow he me on .
we ve ds to ou - ds of es of a ew ls ( e . g .
nt sh ) , nd a ge er of ls ho ar ly a ew es or in ly ne re .
ne ts al ns to ve is ty .
or le , in rt ty am - as a ew le , ty ds , or ne ff ht be en en , ut he ty of le ld ar re - ly .
ng ow on ms rm er ch a on is nt .
he er me of le ta is ry .
we ve ly ed he er of ce es we al th by ng a ce or at is ed to al es nd by ng at es be ge nd fy ly .
en so , we ve a et at is le to , or er an , he st le ab ts nd is ch er in nt .
ng el ca nd ar ts or a et is ze es al es ( on 23 ) .
re ng es , we ly fy ll es to a al se .
ve rt or es re ed as re rs ( rs of he ft nd ht es , rs of he th , nd he ip of he se ) ng 23 nd ed es .
we se he ic ur of ( 23 ) ed to le es as he es or ur vm .
a ew ce is ed by ng ch vm er he ge th a ak or on on or ch re .
we te an ne on ed by he st es lu - on en al ts of ch vm nd al re ns .
we en rm nt nt to nd he ne on ch st ps ed ts to al re ns .
ch ge is en ed to a on se nd ed a re ed on he um of ts re or es .
er on es te er re ec - on nd re er on .
we er ur et by ng es th or on es nd re ft th 23 , 23 ce es .
ch ce is ly ed to a on ng he es , se nd th to te ts of nd on on .
he gb el es om ch ed ce re ed to a or nd ed om re on .
nt is we rm el al ts is ( ca ) to ce he ty of ur ta nd ar mi - nt is ( da ) to ct ta to a ce at is ed or he on sk .
el al ts is : el ca ( 23 ) es a el on to ly te a ci - al nt is in a gh - al re ce ,
re 23 : op ow ws ce or ts , om ow ws es ed by he ce er th on re wn er ( er es te er ca - on ce ) .
he ce er es an vm to ct re ts on ch ce .
nt nt is en ed to nd he st ne on to ap re ts to al ns .
ry ns , ey nt a ad ge of di - ls , se , on nd on ns .
in - ls so ge er me , ch as en wn to er on in ( 23 ) .
ur ce on et is re ed an ny er to te .
es : we ct a on of er es om ll he ns by ng wo or re ed ds ed by a nt se rb ( ( 23 ) ) .
ds re ed as bs by st ng a st of al es to nt se ar ms , nd en ng se to a se of wn bs ( et ( 23 ) ) .
is on is ed to ch on .
ch ce ed in an ge is ed th ry me ed om he ed on ( e . g .
ur ob is to el ch ce or se th he ct me ( if ne ts ) .
le : we in 23 , 23 ge nd le ce or es .
we ct ce es at ot be ed ly , ng 23 , 23
ly , we te on es ed th 23 or er es , ng 23 , 23
23 ve es ce es ed in he on re re nt th ce of ed ce on ms ( e . g . , ee ( 23 ) ) .
is ts at ab ts ck nt na .
ur et rs om al ce on ts in a er of nt ys .
se , on nd on ry ly .
he ce or ds ot to ct al ws of es , ut ( re 23 ) we en er he me ce ed th ly nt ed ht nd in a ad ge of ex - ns .
es nd es re on .
re re gs , es of es on rs , es in so - on nd it es .
te en re re ti - le es of he me re ( is is ue to he ay ws es re ed , er an a ng em ) or le es of he me al in ar gu - ns .
ly , me ls re ed ss me .
nt ge w .
sh es a te - nt in he se en le ry of se ld ld ks on , ly 23 , 23
ld id he ed es ld se ic hs of he ad ns of am in to ve ey re ed by an ps .
to by ry wn -
sh or am es nd is rt - er ss te et ve at he on re of he ad to on , em - er 23 , 23
he ms rs om ks as a go it an ho as a te am - ly fe nd co - rs ul an nd de aw .
rs / an ng
nt ia ov .
ay is ( ws - eb es ) ds an al - er ll on by 23 ge ts gh 23 nt of rs re ll de - ed , ng to a ll ed er 23 , 23 by he ic cy te of al - ia .
is is wn ng to rs er is te th on in os es , on ct .
( im en / rs )
ld er ne on tt of us - ia ts a rn to as su of le at he an en is ps in yo er 23 , 23
rs / ko
an el ia er ve th to a by oy by an on ry 23 , 23 , er an id .
he by is he st ld or th if - er , 23 , nd er nd , sh lm ro - er ew hn , ho as at er de or he th .
er is en on he er - an on ow et it . . . ? ! ss . . . ? ! ) in ig , on ry 23 , 23
( ra er / rs ) us nt ge w .
sh ( l ) es re - ks le ry of te in ow - ll ( r ) ns re ng he us er - ip st iv / ds , is nd ia ct of 23 at he nt of te in on , dc .
he ve - ar an is ed to lp nt nd at ds , ly in re an a en an nd an ns ( fp / ke za )
re 23 : en an ut ge nd an ed on ( es ve nd ns to he ht of ch ge ) , ur em ly ts es ( te es ) in he ge nd le me gs ( ld ) .
we se a ng re to ld ls of ce or ch me nd en ly el ch of he ed es th a me if ne ts .
se ic ls re wn in es ow he es .
le es ay be ed nd le es ay be ed , ng we st ne ho is ho ( e . g . , he re of ia er ) .
ed to he ut ce by me ar ap .
er - el ca as en wn to rm er an ca at ce on ( 23 ) .
el ca is ed as ws : te a el ix , k , re is he ue of he el on ng ( we se a an el ) .
er he el ix in re ce ( by ng ff ge ow , ge mn nd ng on ge nt es ) .
te an si - on of k , nd ct to he ed rs of
ar nt is : da as en wn to rk ll or ce on ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) se it es ss on to nd a et of ts at sh ns of nt es ay om ch er .
23 om on ur et is oo ge to do ca ly as he el ix , k ll be of ze xn , re n is he he um - er of es in he et , nd ve ly ge ns .
re , we ad se an ap - on to te he rs of k .
te ky on ( cd ( 23 ) ) an be ed to cu - te an on to k th a nd on he ma - on or , ut es ng ll n es or ch ol - mn on ( re n is he er of es in he
et ) .
he om on od ( cf ( 23 , 23 ) ) es a ar lt , ut ws he es to be ed in a le ch er an ce or ch mn om - on ( by ng ch er to te or ge es ) .
om es ot ve he me or nd on ts on to k .
er , se of he ng es of el es we ct he er of ge es of ur ix to be ll , re he er of ge es ld go wn ve to he nt of ng .
in ur ix we ed at he es do nd to op ff ly .
se of is , a et of he ns of ur ix , ld de ch of he ta in he ix .
is es at he om od ay de a od on to k .
he om od es wo ct ts of k , a nd b , nd es se to te he st of k .
ng is on of k , he rs an be xi -
st he n
n el ix , k , is ed as
, ! ' / ) 23 - . + d$ : ' / ) 23 - 23 .
re , a is a et of he es , ( in ur se 23 an -
z _ ph
zg om qp
3p am in
re 23 : he re ws a ve et of rs om ur st ld es , ng a es of nt es of th he et nd he od .
te at is re ly es ur or te in er to ow ng na nd ll he es of or we er .
23 : me es re ry nt nd ar in ny nt ns nd es , th a ch ge of ns ( e . g .
rs ed te in ll , or ld ld ) .
se rs so te at ur er an pe th se na .
23 : me es re re , or ar in er ed es of ne or wo es or ly ly nt es ( e . g .
er ed bu af or ss er on ) .
23 : me es re ot , in ct , hs ( li on ) .
23 : he on en er es nd es is ll at sy , se it ns lt to ll ch gs re es of ns ( ed ns , ch ws ee te ce na at co - ur ly th is g; ce nt , ch is nt as to ce ut ot he me of a n; nd nt el ap oi or hn ul , ch ow a es ed th he ng ce ) .
23 : me es re ly us ( es nd , ch ws wo nt es ly ed th he me ( he st is an or ho ed es nd , he nd an or ho as a in in a es nd lm ) .
23 : me es ar at th ow nd le on ( am in ) .
23 : ur er ng ss is le to ge rs ng he me ce ut ed th ct gs ( he rs in he ht ay nd rk ay ns , ly ) .
23 : ur er ng ss is ot ct nd ld et om er ic ge of es ( ic ph nd ic rt ph ) , ut in es ch as se ry ld , ld ld nd se ld ld he gs ed re ct .
23 : ur ng is te nt in he ce of es ( ns ix ) , ps gs ( hn on ) nd es ( hn on ) .
te in ll
se ld ld ld ld
le 23 : le es an en er to he me on .
we nk es to le ed on es .
if wo es ve he me ed ce , en ey st er to he me on .
he ve rs re he op me es ro - ed by ur em .
es re ed en wo es if he rs ng to ch me in ar
ly ed es ) ed to es , b is he on of ch of he es of a , to he st of he es in ur et , nd c is ed by he om od .
om es an on or c .
is es an on to k ,
en we rm
, he ed on of ur ma - , by ng te ge ow , ge mn ms ( se re al ce k is ic ) , nd ge nt es .
we an te he ge ow ( or mn ) um as :
is ed by :
we er as al ,
we en ve or he ed te en - rs as ws .
st , we ce a nd b by ir
ed ns .
t* be he re ot of a , nd .
ze s as
we ed as al or ca , is on of by ng he rs he ed rs .
is es a ty on of ur es at es he on sk
en we ve
we ew ur on as a mi - ed et th rs at we sh to an up .
st we rm im - ts om es th ly ne on ed me .
le is is a ly ll et of es nd he ls re ot ct , ey et us rm an al nt ce .
we ct ll of ur es to is ce nd rm a od - ed k - ns re or ng .
is es a er nd ss sy et om ch to te mi - ts .
se ew ts ve a er on of ty nd we se em to re - er .
is es a li - le et of rs .
23 ed k - ns ng ch ge as an ed or , en by he ca nd da es , nd a et of ed es ( se ds ed ng ur er me or om he
he ng ss ks as ws : 23
ly gn ch ge to ne of ts ed es 23
or ch ct me ( er ) , te he an of ge ec - rs ed to at me .
gn ch ge to he st an of ts ed es .
at 23 - 23 il ce ( i . e .
no ge es es ng an ra - 23 ng rs we se a st or el to be ur et nd ow ut ts at ve a ow ty er is el .
we ve rs th er an ee es so at st or as me ng .
is es 23 , 23 es .
we en ve ts th ow od or a ty of ds ( le 23 ) to et or es as ow as 3% , ( or es re ed by nd ng es om ur et ) .
we ne od as he io of he ty at it me om ts ed er er he ty at it id ot me om ts ed er :
re or a nt x in er
is he er of ts in er
, k is he er of ar - is he er of se , n is he al er of ts in he .
we re us - as he ed ty of a er
st rs we re ng ,
rs at re in es re ht to er rs .
23 ng rs we ld ke to ge rs th nt es at ly nd to a le on ch as se on - ld ld nd ld ld or an nt go ez nd go ez .
is an be ly rd to do ly om xt , in ns ch as in ll
le 23 : et es , er of rs nd or es or nt ds .
he er of le in ch et is ly he er of rs nd or te is de - ed as : en an al nd a ce om ir ci - ed er , he or te is he ty of at ce be - ng ct .
we ee at or id - el ng we et te ll or es .
we ve ed a ge mi - ed et of es to a ll ed et nd ed an rs of ny le .
nd ry of te ( he es do ot re ny ds ) .
we se to ge es at nd to es at ok he me .
ur em ly se es en rs at ve ar ns i . e .
if he rs ve ar es in em ey ly be he me on .
we an ge he ty of rs by he ce en ir ns in nt di - es .
le 23 ws at st ll he op ed es nd to ct es ( wo es at er to he me on ) , pt at of rd rs nd nt 23
ve on we ew is od as ng a ed et at on - ns rs nd es in he ry al nd ng a et th an ed ( or , ly , ct ) ry al , ly ng me ta ms .
we st ow ne ow ch er he ew et is .
wo gs an ve ed : st , he et ay be er .
nd , he ry al ld be re ac -
ut ow ch re te ? if we re ng to as - me at ll rs re nt , we an ee is ue as a ng em .
in ar , ne st ne ow ny ts ed to be ed to ke he et ct .
we te is re on a er - em is , so at he ze of he et es ot ct he re .
he er ed is ly an te we ay ot ve an al ng me ut if ne es a ly nt ng me ld ow us to nk ds st ne 23 he st of ng ed ta we ve a et of ge - xt rs , ch of ch ts of an ge of ne of he ls , nd a st of en 23 nd 23 ( ly ) xt ls .
or ch ta em , we st ow ne er is et of ls ns he ct
al ta et st en ge ls st en ng
23 ( er of es )
re 23 : he re ws he te st er em of ng ch et ed st he ze of he et .
te at he al et ( he ss ) is ge nd y; if ne rs , es nd ns , en es he ng re , he ng et is , in ct , at er ( ed ne ) .
ly , if ne ks at he er re , oo , he et is ch er in ar - ar ne is ng on to a et by us - ng it ly .
ly , ng gs of ur re - ct ld ds to ts at nd to be er nd
nt he om le at es on , we an do is th ) .
if he st ls ns he ct me , we an ll ch it ts .
if it es ot , we st ly he ct ts ( he py of he el
me , ch ll st
is he al py f$
at ve a ct el in at st , nd on of se th em of ng he al et
23 he st of ng ed ta ur ng re es wo es of re .
st , it ns ch ge om an ge - xt ir to ne rs .
nd , it es a xt to ch er , so ly ng ch ge ir in at er .
if he ng ed in is ay is ct , no er ts ed to be ed .
we te he al st or ct ng by ng ow ch rk ( ow ny ts ) re ed to x ll he rs in an ct ng nd er ng .
we me he py of he el et ns ed .
we it he em of ng up ct rs to wo ps .
in he st ep , we ge he me of ch er , if ry , so at it ds to he on ho rs st ly in is er .
in he nd ep , we ge he el of ch ge in a er if it es ot nd to he ( ow ct ) el of he er .
or he on of es th
or he ro - ls at do ot .
he al st er in is on is
ng he er ls : et be he on of he on of rs th he ct el nd rs th an ct el .
et be he om ri - le ng er a er is ed ly or ot nd ll ur ce of ng he py of a an - he st er er of ng he ls or ll he rs is en
in he ct me , nd he st is
or he al er of rs er em ( we
ng ct ts in he er : we as - me or ty at , ce he ls ve en ed as ve , he on of ly ed ts in a is nt of he er .
is ns at he st er em of ng ly ed ts is nt of he ic er re .
en to sh ng he ng we st ay ts er em to en - ts er ct em to
ng of he ta , er ng , as
fy he ct ms d$ ) .
we ve a al er em st or he ct
