we nt an ic nt re ch ps he te al ns ed by al al ty on ts to a le , nt al te em or he al ta ce .
ur hm an be ed to ny et of ts , ch of ch es a ow - al al on of a gh - al ut .
ke nt ts to te ch ls by ng ir ve ns ( 23 , 23 ) , ur hm is ed er ng nd es an nt er to st - ss he ed ls .
he st - ng as no al ma nd he ze of he ys - em it st ve es th he er of al ls er an he er of al ta ts , ng it re nt an el - ee ms ch as ap ( 23 ) or le ( 23 ) .
23 on : al vs .
al ty on nd ty ng , an nt al of ed ng is to er om - ct , ve ns of gh - al ta .
if he ta ie on a th ow al ld , en an nt ng is he es al to at an - ld .
he ss of ng ch es is ty on .
ar ty on ds ch as al nt is nd or ly - is re sy to in ut ot re he re of ed ds .
es of se le ed ls ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) ve en ed to rm al ty on , nd an de od ty ls or ed ds , ut ly ch es ot do ty on .
ey do ot be a le , er - nt ow - al te em or he ta ce re is no re or he al es of ch nt to ee .
is et al ( 23 ) ly ed a el ch ms al on of al te ms in a re of or rs ( fa ) .
ir el is ed by ax - ng he od of he ta , th an al al ty rm to ge he al es of he or rs to ee .
le ir el an de ff ng he ta nd ng nt al te ms , it es a er en de - ff er , ng is te nt ( gh ( 23 ) es an ed in - ng hm or a re ed el ) , nd it as te us al ma ms ( ds ke le ( 23 ) or ap ( 23 ) ve to be ed or on ) .
in is er we be a el , ic ay to gn he en ns ed by ch nt of a re of ty rs to a le al on of he ta ut ce .
en an dy ed re , he nt is ed by ng an er to a ix ed om he al ns of he re ts .
ur od is nt , le to nt , nd as no al ma in ts on or ny ng es or ng es .
23 he ly ar on hm
se we ve a et of ta ts en by he ws of
- al ce , ch we me re ed om a
we te he ld es ng es al ng ce .
se so at we ve dy ed , or ve en th er es %$ en - en , a re of " al al n& ( ' or ta nt ) ' as ll as a y* ' ng ow le e# is .
se fy /
al ty rs .
e# th rs on of
nd an be ed , or le , ng a ng rk in a re of ts , or he or es in a ic rk .
ce at he ld es nd al ns ed ot ve he me er of ns .
en he ta , al ns , nd es , ur hm ly ns he us en ns to a le al te em .
wo ey as te he od .
st , to se a ex st on se ue um is
ed at he ed al es .
nd , to ct he al es $ nd s* nd on he ta
by ng he re of he re el to ze nd ce he ve ze of he on em .
in ct , er an ng th al ta ts , we rk th ge ps of ts ng to ar ls .
' ly gh he al s&
to se to in ts ss at he al es .
he al al is ed by ng he es ng he es as ts :
en an ut we st ze he al es in ms f* $ nd en es a ar on , ch al el rs ts al s& $ nd et 23 is he k th ry of & = , ej .
or ss , we ll ej he in lk $ nd ej ow ne he si ( 23 ) es a em of ar ns ( 23 ) th di
is he k th mn of 23 $ , e to a le ew xj
$ , nd e th ow 23 nd wn 23
is a as .
is ss is ed in re 23
to fy ur ns , we ve ed he is an le ng om
re 23 : ng al es om ta ia ty - ed al es .
is ar in ch
$ nd he wn 23
is ly on - ar ce it ds on he li - on of es nd al es ch re in rn on - ly ed to
he ey on , ch we ve ed by re - ng ng en he al ns nd he al es ' nd he es he ta ' we ow er 23
' ve , is at he $ .
ly , er , he ng en he = .
or is we is ex 23
te ng a ex as ll , nd re is a ue um at an be ed ly ng a ty of ds .
is is ll ue if we so ve le ex ts se re he st nd ts re th ic is ly ng ce we
ce at ce
gh he ce re of he re el .
ng to me en st on
is ar 23
in ar se
is es :
ng he st nd ts , nd et
an se an er to nd he 23
is he ce or .
he es
re ly ed om he nd ze he al es ng em .
he on to he
ed on ve is en by he st ed rs
ow , we te a st on ed on he ly ar ng ( le ) go - hm of is nd ul ( 23 ) .
we ll he ng hm ly ar na - on ( lc ) .
he ea of le is to ve he me ly ar ps en
in ar he ns 23
re en by se ed rs .
we fy or ch nt
' nd ir ts he al ta ts ' nd en ze
ct to he ts /
he ts re 23
th ct to nd an be ed or ly ng ed st es ( ce ng or
he ts ze he al es ng he ta ts
ge to ze he me st
to ir rs , ce to ve se ps ng he es ut th ct to
is nt to ns nd ns of
in er to ak se es we ce he ng ts :
is a or of 23 s .
or is ce , he st on nd ts ve me :
, nd es as
th st nd nt es
in he al se re he er of rs is er an he ty of he ta , le on of he rm of he ts ce in es em ue .
as wn ly , he on to is em is en by he st ed at re al to he or is he st ed or , ng to an ue of 23
ce he on to he em is
- , we ed to nd rs
to fy
ly ,
lc nt hm :
of he ed ue em
en by es
te at he ge ze of he es
, te al ar on ts
st ed rs ad .
, ng a al n& or ch l# nd ch ta nt
in or ve a re - ed re of al ty rs .
ly is re to rm he xi hh $ nd te nd he rs ng to he st 23 be a ix th ns ed by es nd to th ow 23 as nt 23 rn he al ld es as $ ch es th he er of ts nd ns of he al .
as a lt , ng or he ns ut ot th he er of ta ts + nt ts is ch re nt an he al le on ( or se .
in ct , we of ap ) ch es ng an ue em of ge ze + ve ed he re of al ls to se ge ps of ts er nd ed ly th se ps er an he al ta ts .
ce er at ll es ng he rs of he al he on of he ts in he se se .
ta ts , ch es as on th lc so ds a re of ss or rs er he al
23 st rs .
$ nd or ng 23 th or er ng an 23 , th he # , we an er he p$ nd he or ns en ny al es $ er he nt ce of ch or er .
if ur al al ty uc - $ , we an ow er he gh al an rs so ts ng ta nt ch ds to he al es
is ws us to rm op - ns ke on nd on ng he al te em .
is is he od we ed to er he es in es 23 nd 23 in he xt on .
se ed rs we ek
23 al ts ng es of or rs he nt on we ve ed is le to ny re of al en - ty rs .
in ur ts , we ve ed he st ic ch el : a re th or er in he re es a ba -
of or rs ( fa ) ( 23 ) .
he # ic ar ng om a nt e&
he el es at he ta ld is ly ar nd it is is al re at is ed by ch or er .
he on - ty in he ta ld is ed by ng le or rs er , ch ng a ly ar on .
to he ta th ve an se .
as re ed in an ed ay by ng he al og od of he ed ta , nd er on is ly ne ng he em 23
in ur ts , we ed he rs by ng he ns om he al ri - ce of he ta nd ng he rs to ll om es .
we so ed he or rs to re he me al se ce gh is is ot al to he ss .
re 23 : lc on he s ve ( a ) .
re re 23 or rs in he re ( b ) , ch th 23 nt ns .
ch sk ts ne of em th he wo ck es ng he or gs .
er nt by lc ( c ) , he ve is ly d; it is so le to ly gn he al ta ce ls ( d ) .
re 23 : ng he il ve .
we ed 23 sy ts om he ve .
en we t an fa th 23 ts th 23 nt on ch ( a ) , ut ed em in a 3d ce ( b ) .
we ed 23 rs to on - ct ch ta nt .
$ ed on he ta
th al on of
as he ty .
th or er ed
$ , a fa ed ly
th or er ed ) as e#
to ze od ot rn a al te em or he ld at is nt ss ry or er .
ce is is a ct el on ch to ly , le we se he
ce re is no nt ng he us en s& ic nt .
ly , we se he an f& or ty at e#
we te lc on wo ic oy ms to ve me on ut ow it ks .
he st em is he s ve en in re 23 ( a ) .
an fa ed on 23 ts ed ly om he ld th ed se ( b ) is le to el he ar re of he ve ly , er he al es of he or rs re ot ed ly .
we ed lc to he al ns nd ed em in a 3d ce ( c ) .
en ng or al ts , we ed 23 rs to ct ch ta nt .
we ee at lc as ly ed he s ve to he 3d ce .
er , en he te ms ed by lc , we an ly gn he nt es of he as ( d ) .
is is ne by ng ns in he us nt es ch et ed to he me on in he al ce .
to ze he al es of ng ns to a ce of er ty an he al es ed by ch el , we so ed a fa on ta ed om a il ve , as wn in re 23 ( a ) .
he il is a le th a ot in 3d .
as re 23 ( b ) ws , lc ts se ls to a ng of al gy ul to he al ta .
we ed lc to as ed on ts of al es ed to me om a ex ld th ew es of om .
we ed ce es of a le on er ng se nd on es nd en ts om he st se .
er ng he as , we ed lc to gn he ls .
he ce ls re ed to a 3d ce as wn in re 23
he st on rs to be
re 23 : a ap of ns of he es en he al es re ed .
rs be he od of he es .
te at me ns nd he ge of he ap re ot od se he el is ng om he ng es to ns of ow od .
a fa th 23 ts nd 23 nt ns ch is ed .
it is ed on 23 es
re ed ng 23 rs .
es in se , le he nd es es in on .
he it ls re ed to a 3d ce .
re 23 ( op ) ws ps of ns of he ts .
he st on rs to be he nt of ch it , he nd he ss of ch it , nd he rd he ve es of he er to er ps .
re 23 ( om ) ws ow lc an ly te en ny wo ts .
in ar , he st ow es en ft nd ht ng ts , he nd en at nd in ts , he rd en ck nd in ne es , nd he th en ng a er om op nd er op op .
23 on nd ns us rk on ar ty on as ly ed er a ra - ic ch , ch ly ts a ( es ic ) ng en he gh - al nd ow - al es , or a ic ch ch ly ds ow - al es ng to gh - al ta ts ut ut ic ls or en es .
ed to he al on el ( 23 ) , he st ic ch to rs , ur hm an be od as st on , in ch he nt es re ed er ey ve en t to ta .
by ng he ta ng nd on ms we in cy nd id al ma in he on se .
er , ce we re st ng od en ng he al re to ta , we an se a le ge of wn es to pe al ma , nd ve cy in he st se as ll .
on he ic de , ur ch an be ed to wo nt ms , le
to ts nt ce , he al ed el ll so be a ( ic ) ng om he le ta ce to he ed ng ce .
ur nt hm es on al ng or ty ls by ng ir us to ll al ty on ms ut ng ny di - ns to ir ng es or st ns .
or le , ng es of or rs ( as ) as a st se , we ow ow ur nt od an ow a el ly ed ly or ty on to do ex ns on gh al ta ch as on nd on .
nd ( 23 ) as ly ed an ch , ar to rs , at es al ra - ic ls to in a ly id ar ng on .
ke lc , is ng od es a ic st on nd ds he al on di - ly nd ly .
er , ng is ed on a st on ch er in it to he al al on el nd it es ne al el ed on ch ng nt , so ts ng is he me as at of le nd ap .
in le , ds od an be ed to rk th er al ls nd ur nt re an be ed ng he ng st er an he le st we ve ed re .
ic nt es es a ul ut en ed ta - on of al re ls .
er an ng he ut of ch ms to be a le ty , ch as a ty te or a rt - ed on , it is le to ew em as ks ch rt gh - al ts to a or of al es om ch el , ed by es .
as we ve wn , is ew an ad to nt nd ul ms ch ow te al ls to rn nt al ns .
we nk ey on or on nd ng ns , an ey nd nn un or ng ir ta ts , nd he rs or ul ts .
