ian ric els
ter anz , dge ity
yee hye teh , ity ege don
ted rds : ian ods , ior ies , let ess ,
a ian ric del is a ian del on an in ? ite - nal ter ace .
the ter ace is lly sen as the set of all ssi - ble ons for a ven ing lem .
for ple , in a ion lem the ter ace can be the set of ous ons , and in a ity sti - ion lem the ace can ist of all ies .
a ian ric del ses nly a ? ite set of the ble ter ons to ain a ? ite ple of ons , ith the set of ons sen ing on the ple , uch hat the e ? ive ity of the del ( as red by the ber of ons sed ) pts to the ata .
cal ive ems , uch as ric ion and del ion , can hus be ted as ian nce ems .
lar les of ian ric els ude ian ess ion , in ich the ion ure is re ? ned ith ing ple ize , and let ess ure els for ing , ich apt the ber of ers to the ity of the ata .
ian ric els ave tly een ied to a ety of ma - ine ing ems , ing ion , ssi ? ion , ing , ent ble ing , ial ing , age ion , rce ion and mar ion .
ion and und
ost of ine ing is ned ith ing an ate set of pa - ers hin a del ass rom ing ata .
the eta vel ems of ing ate del ses are red to as del ion or del ion .
ese ute ant rns for ine ing ers , hie ? y for nce of ver - ? ing and der - ? ing , but lso for ery of the ses and res ing ata .
les of del se - ion and ion ude : ing the ber of ers in a ing lem , the ber of den tes in a den kov del , the ber
of ent les in a ent ble del , or the ity of res sed in ear ion .
ric els ute an ach to del ion and dap - ion , ere the zes of els are wed to row ith ata ize .
his is as sed to ric els ich ses a ? xed ber of ers .
for ple , a ric ach to ity ion uld be to ? t a aus - ian or a ure of a ? xed ber of ans by mum ood .
a ric ach uld be a zen dow tor , ich ers a ian at ach ion ( and nce ses one ean ter per rva - ion ) .
her ple is the ort tor ine ith a ian nel .
the ter rem ows hat the ion ion is a ear ina - ion of ian ial sis ons red at ery put tor , and hus has a ity hat ows ith ore ons .
ric ods ave ong een lar in cal ( non - ian ) ics ( 123 ) .
hey ten per - orm ely in ons and , ugh cal lts for uch els are lly der to ove han for ric els , ing cal ies ave een hed for a ide nge of els .
ian ric ods ide a ian ork for del ion and ion ing ric els .
a ian ion of ric ems is ial , nce a ian del de ? nes ior and ior ons on a gle ? xed ter ace , but the men - ion of the ter ace in a ric ach uld nge ith ple ize .
the ian ric ion to his lem is to use an in ? ite - nal ter ace , and to oke nly a ? ite set of the ble ers on any ven ? ite ata set .
his set lly ows ith the ata set .
in the ext of ian ric els , °in ? ite - l¡± can ore be ted as °of ? ite but ded n¡± .
ore ely , a ian ric del is a del hat ( 123 ) tes a ian del on an in ? ite - nal ter ace and ( 123 ) can be ted on a ? ite ple in a ner hat ses nly a ? ite set of the ble ers to ain the ple .
we ake the ove ion ore ete in the ext ion hen we ibe a ber of ard ine ing ems and the ond - ing ian ric ons .
as we ill see , the ter ace in ( 123 ) lly sts of ons or of res , ile ( 123 ) is lly ved by ing out lus ons ver the ior .
dom ons and res , and ore lly ity ons on in ? ite - nal dom cts , are led tic es; les we ill ter ude ian ses , let ses and eta ses .
ian ric els are ten med ter the tic ses hey con - ain .
the les are hen wed by cal ons , ing mal ons and ons of the tic ses sed in ian ric els , ity , and ues of ncy and nce ate .
we ude his cle ith ure ons and a ing
ity ion ver ata ems x of the orm p ( x ) = ( cid : 123 ) k p ( x ) = ( cid : 123 ) p ( |¦è ) g ( ¦è ) d¦è , ere g = ( cid : 123 ) k
ing ith ure els .
ian ric ons of ? ite ure els ide an ach for ing oth the ber of nts in a ure del and the ers of the ual mix - ure nts sly rom ata .
ite ure els de ? ne a 123 ðkp ( ¦èk ) , ere ¦ðk is the ing ion and ¦èk are ers ted ith mpo - ent k .
the ity can be ten in a non - ard ner as an ral : 123 ¦èk is a ete ing ion ing all the ers of the ure del and ä¦è is a rac dis - ion ( tom ) red at ¦è .
ian ric res use ing ons ing of a bly in ? ite ber of oms ead :
his ves ise to ure els ith an in ? ite ber of nts .
hen ied to a ? ite ing set , nly a ? ite ( but ing ) ber of nts ill be sed to del the ata , nce ach ata tem is ted ith tly one ent but ach ent can be ted ith ple ata ems .
nce in the del hen lly ers oth the ber of mpo - nts to use and the ers of the nts .
ing ian , we eed a ior ver the ing ion g , and the ost mon ior to use is a let ess ( dp ) .
the ing ure del is led a dp ure .
lly , a let ess dp ( ¦á , h ) zed by a ion ter ¦á > 123 and a ase ion h is a ior ver ons ( bil - ity res ) g uch hat , for any ? ite ion 123 , .
, am of the ter ace , the ced dom tor ( g ( 123 ) , .
, g ( am ) ) is let ted ith ers ( ¦áh ( 123 ) , .
, ¦áh ( am ) ) ( see the ory ion for a ion of ies ved in his de ? ion ) .
it can be own hat aws rom a dp ill be ete ons as ven in ( 123 ) .
the dp lso ces a ion ver ons of ers led the ese ant ess ( crp ) , ich tly bes the ior ver how ata ems are red der the dp ure .
for ore ils on the dp and the crp , see dp try ( ? ) .
ear ion .
the aim of ion is to fer a ous ion rom a ing set ing of put - put irs ( ( ti , xi ) ) n hes ize the ion ing a ? ite ber of ers and mpt to fer ese ers rom ata .
the cal ian non - ric ach to his lem is to de ? ne a ior ion ver con - ous ons tly by ans of a ian ess ( gp ) .
as ned in gp try ( ? ) , a gp is a ion on an in ? ite ion of dom les xt , uch hat the int ion of ach ? ite set 123 , .
, xtm is a mul - ate ian .
a lue xt ken by the ble xt can be ded as the lue of a ous ion f at t , hat is , f ( t ) = xt .
ven the ing set , the ian ess ior is ain a ion on ons , nal
on ese ons ing ues f ( 123 ) = 123 , .
, f ( tn ) = xn .
ent ure els .
ent ure els ent a set of cts in rms of a set of ent res , ach of ich nts an ent ree of ion ted by the ata .
uch a ion of ata is mes red to as a ted ion .
in ogy to ric mix - ure els ith an own ber of ers , a ian ric ach to ent ure ing ows for an own ber of ent res .
the tic ses ved ere are own as the ian bu ? et ess ( ibp ) and the eta ess ( bp ) .
aws rom bps are dom ete res , ere ach of an in ? ite ber of oms has a ass in ( 123 , 123 ) but the ses of oms eed not sum to 123
ach tom nds to a ure , ith the ass ing to the ity hat the ure is ent for an ect .
we can ize the ces of res ong cts ing a ary rix , ere the ( i , k ) try is 123 if ect i has ure k and 123 oth - ise .
the ion ver ary ces ced by the bp is led the den kov els .
den kov els ( mms ) are lar mod - els for ial or ral ata , ere ach ime tep is ate ith a ate , ith ate ons ent on the ous ate .
an in ? ite hmm is a ian ric ach to mms , ere the ber of tes is ded and wed to row ith the nce gth .
it is de ? ned ing one dp ior for the ion ies ing out rom ach ate .
to en - ure hat the set of tes ble rom ach ing ate is the ame , the ase ons of the dps are red and ven a dp ior ely .
the ion is led a cal let ess ( hdp ) ; see low .
ity ion .
a ric ian ach to ity ima - ion res a ior on ies or ons .
ver , the dp is not ful in his ext , nce it tes ete ons .
a ful ity ima - tor uld oth the cal ity ( uch as a zen dow tor ) , ich res a ior hat can ate oth ons .
ors ble in ity ion ems ude dp ure els and lya ees .
dp ure els : nce the ing ion in the dp ure is dom , the ced ity p ( x ) is dom hus the dp ure can be sed as a ior ver ies .
ite the act hat ese are now ily sed in ine ing as ing els , hey ere in act lly sed for
lya ees are ors on ity ons hat can ate oth ete and ise ous ons , ing on the ice of pa - ers .
lya ees are de ? ned by a ive in ? ely eep ary bdi - ion of the ain of the ted dom ure .
ach ion is ted ith a eta dom ble ich bes the ive unt of ass on ach ide of the ion .
the dp is a ial ase of a lya ree ing to a lar ion .
for her ons the ing dom ion can be oth so is ble for ity ima - wer - law ena .
any lly ing ena bit wer -
law ior .
les ude ral ges , ges and ial and ge - tic rks .
an ing ion of the dp , led the man - yor ess , pyp ( ¦á , d , h ) , has tly een lly sed as els of uch wer - law ata .
the man - yor ess nts the dp by a ird ame - ter d ¡ê ( 123 , 123 ) .
hen d = 123 the pyp is a dp ( ¦á , h ) , ile hen ¦á = 123 it is a so led zed ble ess .
ial ing .
mms del ial ata ing ent les ing the ing ate of the tem , and ing hat ach ate nly nds on the ous ate ( the so led kov rty ) .
in ome ons , for ple age ing and ext ion , we are ter - ted in tly ing ces out ing ent les , and out ing any kov ons , i . e .
ing ach ion nal on all ous ons in the nce .
nce the set of ial ces of ous ons is ded , his lls for ric els .
a cal man - yor ess can be sed to uct a ian ara - ric ion eby the nal ies are led lly .
ent and cal els .
ost of the ian ric els bed ove are ied in ngs ere ons are omo - ous or ble .
in any eal rld ngs ons are ten not ous , in act hey are ten red in ing ays .
for ple , the ata ing ess ght nge ver ime hus ons at di ? ent mes are not ble , or ons ght ome in nct ups ith ose in the ame oup ing ore lar han oss ups .
gni ? ant ent e ? rts in ian ics rch ave een ced in ing ons hat can dle ese non - ous set - ngs .
ent let ses are tic ses , lly ver a ial or ral ain , ich de ? ne a let ess ( or a ted ran - dom ure ) at ach int ith ing dps ing ore ent .
ese are sed for ial ing , ric ion , as ell as for ing ral ges .
ely , cal ian ric els ike the cal dp aim to ple ple ian ric mod - els hin a cal ian ork .
the dea is to low ing of cal gth oss ple ups of ons .
ong her pli - ons , ese ave een sed in the in ? ite hmm , pic ing , age ing , ord ion , age ion and mar ion .
for an iew of ous ent ian ric els and eir ap - ons in ics ase ult ( 123 ) .
( 123 ) is an iew of cal ian ric els as ell as a ety of ons in ine
as we saw in the ing les , ian ric els ten ake use of ors ver ons and res .
use ese ces lly ave an ble ber of ons , tra are has to be ken to de ? ne
the ors rly and to udy the tic ies of ion in the in his ion we ive an iew of the sic pts ved in the ory of ian ric els .
we art ith a ion of the nce of ity in ian ric and ric ics .
his is wed by ons of the ors and ues of nce .
the ing ion of all ian ods is hat the ter pec - ing the ion del is a dom ble .
his ion is ect to uch ism , and at the art of the ian sus non - ian ate hat has ong ded the ics ity .
ver , ere is a ery ral ype of ons for ich the nce of uch a dom ble can be ved lly : for so - led ble ons , the ian ion hat a mly ted ter sts is not a ing ion , but a cal nce of the ¡¯s ies .
lly , a nce of les 123 , 123 , .
, xn ver the ame ity ace ( x , ? ) is ble if eir int ion is ant to ing the les .
hat is , if p is the int ion and ¦ò any ion of ( 123 , .
, n ) , hen p ( 123 = 123 , 123 = 123 .
xn = xn ) = p ( 123 = x¦ò ( 123 ) , 123 = x¦ò ( 123 ) .
xn = x¦ò ( n ) ) ( 123 )
an in ? ite nce 123 , 123 , .
is in ? ely ble if 123 , .
, xn is ex - ble for ery n ¡ý 123
in his per we ill ean in ? ite ity ver we ite ity .
ity re ? cts the ion hat the les do not end on eir ces ugh hey may be pen - ent ong ves .
his is lly a ble ion in ine ing and cal ons , ven if the les are not ves iid ( tly and lly ted ) .
ity is a uch ker ion han id; iid les are lly ble .
if ¦è zes the ing ion , and one mes a ior dis - ion ver ¦è , hen the ing nal ion ver 123 , 123 , .
ith ¦è zed out ill ill be ble .
a tal ult ted to de tti ( 123 ) tes hat the rse is lso rue .
hat is , if 123 , 123 , .
is ( in ? ely ) ble , hen ere is a dom ¦è uch hat :
p ( 123 , .
, xn ) =
for ery n ¡ý 123
in her rds , the gly ous ion of ex - ity lly ies the nce of a cal ian del ith ¦è ing the dom ent ter .
his the rux of the fun - tal nce of ity to ian ics .
in de ¡¯s rem it is ant to ess hat ¦è can be in ? ite men - nal ( it is lly a dom ure ) , hus the cal ian del
( 123 ) is lly a ric one .
for ple , the ell - een urn eme ( ted to the crp ) is ble hus tly de ? nes a ran - dom ure , ely the dp ( see the dp try ( ? ) for ore ils ) .
in his nse , we ill see low hat de ¡¯s rem is an ive ute to kol - ¡¯s ion rem , ich tly de ? nes the tic ses ing ian ric els .
in ? ite ons , a ity del is lly de ? ned by a ity ion or ity ass ion .
in in ? ite - nal ces , his ach is not lly ble , for ons ned low .
to de ? ne or ork ith a ian ric del , we ave to ose ive cal eak ons .
a eak ion is a ion for the dis - ion of a tic ess , hat is , for a ity ion on an in ? ite - nal ple ace .
if we ume hat the ons of the ace are xed by t ¡ê t , the tic ess can be ded as the int ion p of an in ? ite set of dom les ( xt ) ¡êt .
for any ? ite set s ? t of ons , the int ion ps of the ing set ( xt ) ¡ês of dom les is a ? ite - nal nal of p .
the eak ion of a tic ess is the set of all its ? ite - nal als , hat is , the set ( ps : s ? t , |s| < ¡þ ) .
for ple , the ary de ? ion of the ian ess as an in ? ite ion of dom les , ach ? ite set of ich has a int ian ion , is an ple of a eak ion ion .
in ast to the cit ons to be bed low , his ion is lly not ive , use it nts the ion her han a dom raw , but is ore ely
tly , ust de ? ing a eak ion in his ner eed not im - ply hat it is a lid ion of a tic ess .
a ven ion of ? ite - nal ons nts a tic ess nly ( 123 ) if a ess ith ese ons as its als lly sts , and ( 123 ) if it is ely de ? ned by the als .
the cal ult ich ees hat eak ion ons are lid is the rov ion rem ( lso own as the ell - rov rem or the rov ncy rem ) .
ose hat a ion ( ps : s ? t , |s| < ¡þ ) of ons is ven .
if all ons in the ion are als of ach her , hat is , if 123 is a nal of 123 ver 123 ? 123 , the set of ibu - ons is led a ive ily .
the rov ion rem tes hat , if the set t is ble , and if the ons ps orm a ive ily , hen ere sts a ely de ? ned tic ess ith the lec - ion ( ps ) as its nal ons .
in her rds , any ive ily for a ble set t of ons is the eak ion of a tic pro - ess .
ely , any tic ess can be ted in his ner , by ing its set of ? ite - nal als .
the eak ion ion mes hat all ual dom ble xt of the tic ess ake ues in the ame ple ace ? .
the tic ess p de ? ned by the eak ion is hen a ity ion on the ple ace ? t , ich can be ted as the set of all ion f : t ¡ú ? .
for ple , to uct a gp we ght ose t = q and ? = r to ain eal - ued ons on the ble ace of nal ers .
nce q is nse in r , the ion f can hen be ded to all of r by ity .
to de ? ne the dp as a ion ver ity res on r , we ote hat a ity ure is a set ion hat aps dom s¡± , i . e .
nts of the rel ¦ò - bra b ( r ) of r , nto ies in ( 123 , 123 ) .
we uld ore ose a eak ion ing of let ons , and set t = b ( r ) and ? = ( 123 , 123 ) .
ver , his ach ses a new lem use the set b ( r ) is not ble .
as in the gp , we can ? rst de ? ne the dp on a ble e¡± for b ( r ) hen end to all dom nts by ity of res .
ore ise ons are ely ond the ope of his try .
cit ons .
cit ons tly ibe a ran - dom raw rom a tic ess , her han ing its ion .
a ent ple of an cit ion is the so - led ick - ing ion of the let ess . the ete dom ure g in ( 123 ) is ely ned by the two in ? ite ces ( ¦ðk ) ¡ên and ( ¦èk ) ¡ên .
the ick - ing ion of the dp tes ese two ces by ing ¦èk ¡« h iid and vk ¡« eta ( 123 , ¦á ) for k = 123 , 123 , .
the coe ? nts ¦ðk are 123 ( 123 ? vk ) .
the ure g so ned can be hen ted as ¦ðk = vk own to be ted ing to a dp ( ¦á , 123 ) .
lar ons can be ved for the man - yor ess and the eta ess as ell .
cit ons , if hey ist for a ven del , are lly of eat cal nce for the ion of hms .
cit ons .
a ird ion of in ? ite nal els is sed on de ¡¯s rem .
any ble nce 123 , .
, xn ely de ? nes a tic ess ¦è , led the de tti ure , ing the ¡¯s iid .
if the ¡¯s are su ? ent to de ? ne the est of the del and eir nal ons are ily eci ? ed , hen it is su ? ent to ork tly ith the ¡¯s and ave the ing tic ess tly de ? ned .
ex - les ude the ese ant ess ( an ble ion ver ons ) ith the dp as the de tti ure , and the ian bu ? et ess ( an ble ion ver ary ces ) ith the bp ing the ing de tti ure .
ese cit ons are ful in ice as hey can ead to ple and e ? ent nce hms .
ite ons .
a rth ion of ian ric els is as the in ? ite mit of ? ite ( ric ) ian els .
for xam - ple , dp res can be ved as the in ? ite mit of ? ite ure els ith lar let ors on ing ons , gps can be ved as the in ? ite mit of lar ian ion els ith ian ors , ile bps can be ved as rom the mit of an in ? ite ber of pen -
ent eta les .
ese ons are mes ore ive for ers iar ith ric els .
ver not all ian non - ric els can be sed in his ion , and hey do not ily ake ear the cal ies ved .
ncy and nce tes
ent ork in cal ics nes the nce ies of ian ric els , and in lar the ons of ncy and nce tes .
ely , a ent ion ure is a hod hat ill ult in a ect ate if it has ess to an in ? ite unt of ata , hat is , a ure hat ill be ate ess it is red by nsu ? ent ple ize .
in ian ics , an ate is a ion ver ble ter ues ( the ior ) , and nce ncy in ian els is de ? ned by ing hat the ior ges to a lta eak at the rue ter .
a sic rem by j .
oob ows hat for any ian del , the set of all ble rue ter ues for ich the del ill be ent has ity one der the ior .
in her rds , if the rue ter ( and nce the ata ion ) is sen at dom rom the ior , we ill ays end up ith a ent del , and a ian who is ain out the ior eed not rry out ncy .
his ult oes not old ore if the rue ter lue is not in the ain of the ior .
in ric mod - els , ich ave to ead out eir ity ass ver an in ? ite - nal ace , his can ult in gly ble ior of the del .
for ex - ple , the let ess may be sed as a ior in ity ion .
its ort sts of the ete ons , ich ans hat if the ata is awn rom any oth ion , the rue del is not in the ort of the ior ( so ¡¯s rem oes not ply ) .
as own by nis and man ( 123 ) , the ior ill not ily ate in a ion ose to the rue del .
ely , the ion is hat we not lly ume in non - ric els hat the e ? ect of the ior ill lly ome ble if nly we see ugh ata .
ver , his oes not ean hat ric ian els are lly ent : a rge and ing ure in cal ics ows hat ncy can be eed by per ice of an ate ric del ( 123 ) .
ent lts , bly by van der art and sal , ply ern eth - ods of cal ics to udy the nce ies of ian ric els ( see ( 123 ) for her ces ) .
ncy has een es - hed for a ber of els , ing ian ses and let ess res .
a rly ing ect of his ine of ork are re - lts on nce tes , ich ify how dly the ior tes ith ing ple ize , ing on the ity of the del and on how uch ity ass the ior ces und the rue ion .
to ake uch lts ive res a ure for the ity of a ian non - ric del .
his is one by ans of ity res ped in
cal ess ory and cal ing ory , uch as ric ies , ing ers and ing , ome of ich are ell - own in cal ine ing .
les of uch lts ude the ncy of let ess ure els for ity ion if oth the get ity and the ric ure nts are oth , and a nge of ncy lts for ion and ity ion ith ian ses .
for all of ese lts , nce tes can be eci ? ed as ell ( ces are ven in ( 123 ) ) .
a rge ass of in ? ite - nal els ich do ave ell ven if the rue ter is not in the ain of the ior is nti ? ed in ( 123 ) .
in his ase , the ior ill ate in the ion of the ior ort ich is est to the rue ter in a ack - ler nse .
ere are two cts to nce in ian ric els : the ana - tic ity of ors for the tic ses ded in ian ric els , and cal nce hms for the all mod - els .
ian ric els lly ude tic ses uch as the ian ess and the let ess .
ese ses ave an in ? ite ber of ons hus a¡§ ? ve mic hes to ing ors is lly ble .
ely , ese ses lly ave lly ble ors , so all but ? ely any of the ons can be lly ted out e ? tly .
the ing ons , ong ith the ric rts of the els , can hen be led by the ual fer - nce ues yed in ric ian ing , ing kov ain nte rlo , ial nte rlo , nal nce , and age - ing hms ike ion ion .
the ise ice of rox - ons to use ill end on the eci ? c els der ion , ith eed / acy ade - o ? s een di ? ent ues lly ing ose for ric els .
in the ing , we ill ven two les to lus - ate the ove nts , and uss a few cal ues ted ith the tic ity of tic ses .
in ian ess ion , we del the hip een an put x and an put y ing a ion f , so hat y ¡« f ( x ) +  ere  is iid ian ise .
ven a gp ior ver f and a ? ite ing ata set ( ( xi , yi ) ) n ish to ute the ior ver f .
ere we can use the eak ion of f and ote hat ( f ( xi ) ) n 123 is ply a ? ite - nal ian ith ean and nce ven by the ean and nce ons of the gp .
nce for ( f ( xi ) ) n 123 is hen ard .
the ach can be ght of tly as ing out the ole ion ept its ues on the ing uts .
ote hat ugh we nly ave the ior ver ( f ( xi ) ) n his is su ? ent to uct the ion ted at any her int 123 ( say
123 ven ( f ( xi ) ) n
the est put ) , nce f ( 123 ) is ian and ent of the ing ata 123
in gp ion the ior ver ( f ( xi ) ) n can be ted tly .
in gp ssi ? ion or her ion ngs ith ear ood ons , the cal ach is to use rse ods sed on nal ons or ion on; see gp try ( ? ) for ils .
our ond ple ves let ess ure els .
all hat the dp ces a ing ure on the ata ems .
if our ing set sts of n ata ems , nce ach tem can nly ong to one ter , ere are at ost n ers ted in the ing set .
ven ugh the dp ure elf has an in ? ite ber of ial ers , all but ? ely any of ese are not ted ith ata , hus the ted les eed not be tly ted at all .
his can be ood her as ing out ese les , or as an cit ion ich can be ade cit ver red by ing rom the ior .
his dea is ble for dp res ing oth the ese ant ess and the ick - ing rep - ons .
in the crp ion , ach ata tem xi is ted ith a ter dex zi , and ach ter k ith a ter ¦è ? k ( ese ers can be zed out if h is ate to f ) , and ese are the nly ent ari - les hat eed be ted in ory .
in the ick - ing ion , ers are red by ing ior ted ize , ith ter k ted ith a ter ¦è ? k and a ize ¦ðk .
ach ata tem is ain ted ith a ter dex zi , and nly the ers up to k = max ( 123 , .
, zn ) eed be ted .
all ers ith dex > k eed not be ted nce eir ior ing on ( ( xi , zi ) ) n
123 is ust the ior .
on yes ons and acy
it is rth ing hat the ior of a ian del is , in act rms , de ? ned as the nal ion of the ter ven the ata and the ers , and his de ? ion oes not ire the nce of a if a yes ion sts for the del , the ior can tly be de ? ned as the eft - and ide of the yes ion .
ver for ome tic ses , bly the dp on an ble ace uch as r , it is not ble to de ? ne a yes ion ven ugh the ior is ill a ell - de ? ned cal ect .
lly ing , nce of a yes ion res the ily of all ble ors to be ted by the ior , but his is not the ase for the dp .
hat ors of ese tic ses can be ted at all is ely due to the act hat hey mit an
the lar orm of ity ted by any tic ses in the ure is hat of a ate ior , hat is , the ior ngs to the ame del ily as the ior , and the ior ers can be ted as a ion of the ior ers and the ved ata .
for ple , the ior of a dp ( ¦á , 123 ) der ons 123 , .
, ¦èn is ain a let ess , dp ( ¦á + n ,
á+n ( 123 + ( cid : 123 ) ¦èi ) ) .
rly the ior of a gp der
ons of f ( 123 ) , .
, f ( xn ) is ill a gp .
it is his acy hat ows cal nce in the les ove .
a ian ric del is ate if and nly if the nts of its eak ion , i . e .
its ? ite - nal als , ave a ate ure as ell ( 123 ) .
in lar , his zes a ass of ate ian ric els ose eak ons ist of ial ily els .
ote ver hat ack of acy do not ply ble ors .
an ple is ven by the man - yor ess , ere the ior is ven by a sum of a ? ite ber of oms and a man - yor ess ent rom the oms .
nce cmc ing hms for let ess res ame ail - ble in the 23s and ade ent ble els ith ric ian nts ble to cal ems , the ent of ian non - ics has ced ive wth ( 123 , 123 ) .
bly , ugh , the lts ble so far ave nly hed the ace .
the ire of ail - ble els is ill tly ted to ing the ian ess , the let ess , the eta ess , and ons ved rom ose .
ple , ian ric els may be de ? ned on any in ? ite - nal cal ect of ble est to ine ing and ics .
pos - ble les are els , in ? ite phs , ial ses of ons ( e . g .
ece - ise ous or lev ons ) , and ons .
ide rom the ous ing ons , two jor ure ons are to ake ian ric ods ble to a ger nce of re - ers and ers ugh the ent of are ges , and to and and ify the cal ies of ble ods .
ral - ose are age
ere is tly gni ? ant wth in the ion of ian met - ric els oss a ety of ion ins oth in ine ing and in ics .
ver gni ? ant les ill ist , lly the nse and ise ded to lop ter ams for nce in ese lex els .
one ure ion is hus the ent of are ges hat can ile e ? ent nce hms lly ven del eci ? ca - ons , hus ing a uch der nge of ler to ake use of ese els .
ent nts ude the r 123 , the cal ian com - 123 , tor 123 , the mit - rch 123 , as ell as e ? rts to add ian ric els to the ire of ent ian ing
nts ike 123 and fer . 123
cal ies of els
ent ork in cal ics des ome ght nto the uan - ive ior of ian ric els ( cf ory ion ) .
the ant , cal ach ing ese lts , ich nti ? es del ity by ans of cal ess ory and hen ves nce tes as a ion of the ity , uld be ble to a ide nge of els .
so far , ver , nly lts for ian ses and let pro - ess res ave een ven , and it ill be of eat est to ish ies for her ors .
ome els ped in ine ing , uch as the in ? ite hmm , may ose new ges to cal ogy , nce eir udy ill bly ave to raw on oth the ory of hms and cal ics .
nce a der nge of lts is ble , hey may in urn rve to ide the ent of new els , if it is ble to ish how di ? ent ods of del ion a ? ect the cal ies of the ted del .
let ses , ian ses , ian ods , ior ies .
in ion to the ces ded in the ext ove , we end the oks ( 123 , 123 ) and the iew les ( 123 , 123 ) on ian ics .
ces for dps and dp ure els can be und in the dp try ( ? ) , for gps in the gp try ( ? ) , ile for ost of the her les can be und in the ter ( 123 ) of the ook ( 123 ) .
man .
all of ric ics .
ger , 123
son .
ric yes ons to ics .
ort , c .
mes , p .
ler , and s .
ker , ors , ian non - ics .
dge ity ess , 123
teh and m .
dan .
cal ian ric els ith ons .
ort , c .
mes , p .
ler , and s .
ker , ors , ian ics .
dge ity ess , 123
de tti .
one ica di un eno rio .
tti lla r .
mia ale dei cei , rie 123
rie , sse di nze che , ice e ale , 123 , 123
nis and d .
man .
on the ncy of yes tes ( ith
ion ) .
als of ics , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
sal .
the let ess , ted ors and ior ics .
ort , c .
mes , p .
ler , and s .
ker , ors , ian non - ics .
dge ity ess , 123
ijn and a .
van der art .
eci ? ion in in ? ite -
nal ian ics .
als of ics , 123 : 123 , 123
anz .
ion of ric ian els rom ara - in ces in ral ion ing
ric yes ons .
bar and m .
ian ity ion and nce ing res .
nal of the can cal ion , 123 : 3¨c
( 123 ) r .
kov ain ing ods for let ess ure els .
nal of nal and cal ics , 123 : 123 ,
( 123 ) n .
ort , c .
mes , p .
ler , and s .
ker , ors .
ian ara - ics .
ber 123 in dge ies in cal and tic ics .
dge ity ess , 123
( 123 ) j .
osh and r .
thi .
ian ics .
ger ,
( 123 ) s .
ker , p .
ien , p .
aud , and a .
ian ric nce for dom ons and ted ons .
nal of the yal cal ety , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
( 123 ) p .
ler and f .
ana .
ric ian ata sis .
cal nce , 123 ( 123 ) : 123 , 123
