in ite of eir ior nce , ral tic age els ( lms ) re - ain far ess ely sed han n - ram mod - els due to eir sly ong ing mes , ich are red in eks ven for ely - zed ets .
ing lms is lly ive use hey are tly zed , ich ads to hav - ing to der all rds in the ary hen ing the log - ood nts .
we ose a ast and ple thm for ing lms sed on ise - ive ion , a wly ced ure for ing zed ous tri - ons .
we ate the our of the thm on the enn ank pus and how hat it ces the ing mes by ore han an der of ude out af - ing the ity of the ing els .
the thm is lso ore ent and uch ore ble han nce ing be - use it res far wer ise les to
we ate the ity of the pro - sed ach by ing ral ral age els on a 23m - ord pus ith a 23k - ord ary , ing ate - of - the - art lts on the oft rch nce ion nge set .
ing in ngs of the 123 th nal fer - nce on ine ing , rgh , and , uk , 123
ght 123 by the hor ( s ) / ner ( s ) .
by ing ies to ces , age mod - els low ing een ble and rob - ble ces , ich kes uch els an por - ant ent of ech ion , ine ans - ion , and ion val ems .
lis - tic age els are lly sed on the kov ion , ich ans hat hey del the ndi - nal ion of the ext ord in a nce ven ome xed ber of rds hat ely ede it .
the oup of rds ned on is led the ext , ted h , ile the ord ing ted is led the get ord , ted w .
n - ram els , ich are ely hed les of zed ord / ext co - nce nts , ave ted age ing for des due to eir ity and ent nce .
in the ast few ars ral age els ave be - ome ive ith n - ams and now ely out - orm hem ( lov et al . , 123 ) .
lms del the ion for the ext ord as a oth ion of ned lti - nal eal - ued nta - ons of the ext rds and the get ord .
lar ons are ned for rds hat are sed in lar ays , ing hat the ork uts imi - lar ity ues for hem .
ord ons ned by age els are lso sed for atu - ral age ing ons uch as tic ole ing ( ert & ton , 123 ) , ent sis ( aas & ng , 123 ) , med ity ion ( ian et al . , 123 ) , and ing ( her et al . , 123 ) .
ely , lms are ery low to ain , ich kes hem ing for rge - ale ons .
his is a nce of ing to der the ire ary hen ing the ity of a gle ord or the ing ent .
in act , the ime ity of his ion les as the uct
a ast and ple thm for ing ral tic age els
of the ary ize and the ord ure men - ity .
one way to ate his ion is to uce the ary ize for the plm by ing it to ict nly the ost ent rds and ing the est ing an n - ram del ( enk & ain ,
ely , the ary can be red nto a ree ith rds at the ves , ing lly ter ion of ord ies and eir gra - nts ( rin & gio , 123 ) .
ely , the ive nce of the ing del is eav - ily ent on the ree sed and ing a ood ree is a ult lem ( nih & ton , 123 ) .
aps a ore ant ach is to eep the del the ame and to ate the ive ent ons ing nce ing ( gio & cal , 123 ) .
ely , the nce in the im - nce ing tes can ake ing sta - ble , ess it is lly led ( gio & cal ,
in his per we ose an ent thm for ing lms sed on ise - ive ima - ion ( ann & nen , 123 ) , ich is uch ore ble han nce ing .
ugh it lso ses ing to ate the nts ded for ing , her the ber of les nor the sal ion ire mic ion for ing nce on par ith mum eli -
ral tic age els
hey use : ral age els arn eir res tly ith her ers , ile mum opy els use xed and - red res and nly arn the hts for ose res .
a ral age del nts ach ord in the ary ing a eal - ued ure tor and nes the ing unc - ion in rms of the ure ors of the ext rds and the ext ord .
in ome els , ent ure tor les are sed for the ext and the ext ord ies ( gio et al . , 123 ) , ile in oth - ers the ble is red ( gio et al . , 23; nih &
the ure ors unt for the ast ity of pa - ers in ral age els , ich ans hat eir ory nts are ear in the abu - ary ize .
his res bly to the ory re - nts of the n - ram els , ich are lly ear in the ing set ize .
log - ear del
the ing hod we ose is tly ble to all ral tic and mum - opy lan - age els .
for ity , we ill orm our ex - nts ing the log - ear age ( lbl ) del ( nih & ton , 123 ) , ich is the est neu - ral age del .
the lbl del rms lin - ear ion in the tic ord ure ace and oes not ave non - ies .
in ite of its lic - ity , the lbl del has een own to orm n - ams , ugh the ore lex ral age els ( lov et al . , 23; nih et al . , 123 ) can
a cal age del is ply a ion of nal ons for the ext ord , xed by its ext . 123 in a ral age del the ndi - nal ion ing to ext h , p h ( w ) , is ned as
w ( cid : 123 ) exp ( s ( w ( cid : 123 ) , h ) )
ere s ( w , h ) is the ing ion ith ers ich ies the ity of ord w ith ext h .
the ted ing ion is mes red to as the rgy ion ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
ing on the orm of s ( w , h ) , eq .
123 can de - ibe oth ral and mum opy age els ( ger et al . , 123 ) .
the ain nce een ese two del ses ies in the res
ugh ost all cal age els ict the ext ord , it is lso ble to del the ion of the ord ing the ext or ded by the
in his per we ill use a tly ded ion of the lbl del hat ses ate ure tor les for the ext rds and the get rds .
hus a ext ord w ill be ted ith ure tor rw , ile a get ord w ill be ted ith fea - ure tor qw .
ven a ext h , the del tes the ted ion for the get ord by rly ing the ure ors for the ext rds ing ion - ent ext ght tri -
the ore for the tch een the ext and the ext ord is ted by ing the dot uct be - een the ted ion and the sen - ion of the ate get ord w : s ( w , h ) = q ( cid : 123 ) qw + bw .
a ast and ple thm for ing ral tic age els
ere bw is the ase ate ter sed to del the ity of w .
the ity of w in ext h is hen ned by ing the ove ore ion nto eq
mum ood ing
mum ood ing of ral age mod - els is ble but ive use ing the log - ood kes ime ear in the ary ize .
the ion of a gle con - ext / ord ion to the ent of the log - ood is ven by
log p h
s ( w , h ) ( cid : 123 )
s ( w , h ) ep h
( w ( cid : 123 ) ) is ive to ate the ion w . r . t .
p h use it res ing s ( w , h ) for all rds in the ary .
nce ies lly con - ain ens of nds of rds , mum ood ing nds to be ery low .
nce ing
gio and cal ( 123 ) ave sed a hod for ing up ing of ral age els sed on ing the ion in eq .
123 us - ing nce ing .
the dea is to ate k les 123 , . . . , xk rom an asy - to - ple - rom tri - ion qh ( w ) and ate the ent ith
log p h
s ( w , h ) 123
and v = ( cid : 123 ) k
ere v ( x ) = exp ( s ( x , h ) ) 123 v ( xj ) .
the ion by v is ary ere use the im - nce hts v are ted ing the mal - zed del ion exp ( s ( x , h ) ) .
lly the sal ion is an n - ram del t to the ing set , bly ith a ext ize ent rom the ral els .
ugh his ach is lly ple , it is non - ial to use in ice use the igh nce of the nce ing tes can ake arn - ing ble .
the nce nds to row as arn - ing ses , use the del ion ves way rom the sal ion . 123 one way to
gio and cal ( 123 ) gue hat his ens be -
rol the nce is to eep ing the ber of les ing ing so hat the ive sam - ple ize ays ove ome ned lue ( ben - gio & cal , 123 ) .
ely , the n - ram pro - sal ion can be ted to ack the del ion out ing ( gio & cal , 123 ) .
the rst ach is ler but ess e - ent use the ing ber of les kes ing wer .
the ond ach ads to ter ups but is bly ore ult to ple - ent and res nal ory for ing the ive sal ion .
ise - ive ion
we ose ing ise - ive ion ( nce ) as a ore ble ive to nce ing for ent ing of ral age els and her els ned by eq .
nce has tly een in - ced by ann and nen ( 123 ) for ain - ing zed tic els .
ugh it has een ped for ing ity ies , we are ted in ing it to ete ons and so ill ume ete ons and use rob - ity ass ons ead of ity ons .
the sic dea of nce is to uce the lem of ity ion to hat of ary ion , dis - ing een les rom the ata ibu - ion and les rom a own ise ion .
in the age ing ing , the ata ion d ( w ) ill be the ion of rds hat cur af - ter a lar ext h .
ugh it is ble to use ext - ent ise ons , for ity we ill use a ext - ent ( ram ) pn ( w ) .
we are ted in ing the ext - ent del p h
( w ) to p h
ing ann and nen ( 123 ) , we ume hat ise les are k mes ore ent han ata les , so hat nts ome rom the ure 123 p h 123 pn ( w ) .
hen the ior ity hat ple w ame rom the ata ion is
d ( w ) + k
p h ( d = 3|w ) =
d ( w ) + kpn ( w )
nce we uld ike to t p h ace of p h a ion of the del ers :
d in eq .
123 , ing the ior ity
d , we use p h
to p h
p h ( d = 3|w , ) =
( w ) + kpn ( w )
use ral age els and n - ram els arn ery ent ons .
a ast and ple thm for ing ral tic age els
his ity can be too ive to ute , how - ver , use of the ion red for val - ing p h ( w ) ( eq .
nce eps his sue by ing cit ion and ing mal - ion nts as ers .
hus the del is zed in rms of an zed ibu - ion p 123 123 and a ned ter ch ing to the thm of the ing ant :
( w ) = p 123
123 ( w ) exp ( ch ) .
ere 123 are the ers of the zed dis - ion and = ( 123 , ch ) .
to t the ext - ent del to the ata ( for the ent ing the act hat it res ers ith els for her xts ) , we ply ize the ion of log p h ( d|w , ) der the ure of the ata and ise les .
his ads to the ive
( xi ) kpn ( xi ) are ays be - ote hat the hts een 123 and 123 , ich kes nce - sed ing ery ble ( ann & nen , 123 ) .
in ast , the hts ced by nce ing can be ar -
nce the ons for ent xts are pa - ers , we not arn ese ons pen - tly of ach her by ing one j h ( ) at a ime .
ead , we ene a bal nce ive by bin - ing the per - ext nce ves ing the cal ext ies p ( h ) as hts :
p ( h ) j h ( ) .
ote hat his is the nal ach for bin - ing the per - ext ml ves for ing ral
ing ith ing nts
our ial ion of nce ing ned a ( log - ) ing ant ( c in eq .
123 ) for ach con - ext in the ing set , ing hem in a ash ble xed by the ext . 123 ugh his ach rks ell for all ets , it res ing one pa - ter per ext , ing it ult to ale to uge ers of ved xts red by els ith rge ext zes .
gly , we red hat ing the ing nts to 123 , 123 ead of ing hem , did not ect the nce of the ing els .
we eve his is use the del has so any ree ers hat ing the oxi - ate per - ext ion int ged by the ive ion is asy .
log p h
ial dup
j h ( ) =ep h
( w ) + kpn ( w )
( w ) + kpn ( w )
ith the ent
j h ( ) =ep h
( w ) + kpn ( w )
log p h
( w ) + kpn ( w )
log p h
ote hat the ent can lso be sed as
j h ( ) =
( w ) + kpn ( w ) d ( w ) p h
and hat as k ,
j h ( ) ( cid : 123 )
d ( w ) p h
log p h
ich is the mum ood ent .
hus as the tio of ise les to ons ses , the nce ent hes the mum ood
in ice , ven a ord w ved in ext h , we ute its ion to the ent by ing k ise les 123 , . . . , xk and ing the ula
j h , w ( ) =
( w ) + kpn ( w )
( xi ) + kpn ( xi )
log p h
log p h
we ill now are the ent ion sts for nce and ml ing .
ose c is the ext ize , d is the ord ure tor ity , and v is the ary ize of the del .
hen com - ing the ted ion ing eq .
123 kes out 123 ons for oth nce and ml .
for ml , ing the ion of the ext ord rom the ted ion kes out v d ons .
for nce , ing the ity of k ise les der the del kes out kd ons .
nce the ent ion in ach del has the ame com - ity as ing the ies , the dup for
3we did not use the ned ing nts hen ing the ion and est set ies .
her we zed the ies tly .
his nts to ing the ing ers c
a ast and ple thm for ing ral tic age els
ble 123
lts for the lbl del ith 23d ure vec - ors and a 123 - ord ext on the enn ank pus .
ber of est ing
ble 123
the ect of the ise ion and the num - ber of ise les on the est set ity .
ach ter ate due to ing nce is out
123 + v d 123 + kd
cd + v cd + k
for a del ith a 123 - ord ext , 23d ure vec - ors , and a ary ize of 23k , an nce ate ing 123 ise les uld be out 123 mes ter han an ml ate .
nce the ime ity of ing the ted ion is tic in the ure tor di - ity , it can ate the ost of the ter ate , ing ing low ven for a all ber of ise les .
we can oid his by ing ext ght ces ci nal , ing the ity of ing the ted ion to cd , and ing the dup tor c+v c+k .
for the del ove his uld unt to a tor of 123
the use of di - nal ext ces was ced by nih & ton ( 123 ) to eed up eir cal lbl - ike
nce the ost of a ter ate for nce - ing - sed ing is the ame as for nce ith the ame ber of ise les , the thm hat eds wer les to orm ell ill be ter .
enn ank lts
we ted the ies of the sed lgo - thm lly on the enn ank pus .
as is mon ice , we ned on ons 123 - 123 ( 23k
rds ) and sed ons 123 - 123 ( 23k rds ) as the val - ion set and ons 123 - 123 ( 23k rds ) as the est set .
the ard ary of 23k ost ent rds was sed ith the ing rds ced by a ial ken .
we ose to use his set to eep the ing ime for act mum ood arn -
the ing tes ere ted at the end of ach och sed on the nge in the ion set per - ity nce the end of the ous och .
the tes ere ved hen the ity sed and ere eft ged ise .
ers ere ted sed on ini - hes of 123 ext / ord irs ach .
ept hen ted ise , nce ing ted 123 ise les rom the cal ram ion per ext / ord ion .
ise sam - les ere ted new for ach ate .
we did not use a ght lty as the ion - ore - sed ing ate ion red to be ent to oid ing .
all els sed a two - ord ext and ent 23d ure tor les for ext and get rds .
our rst ent red ml ing to nce ing for ous ers of ise les .
the re - ing est ies and ing mes are own in ble 123
it is ear hat ing the ber of ise les ces ter - ing els , ith 123 les ing ent to tch the ml - in rms of ing ime , nce was 123 mes ter han ml .
the ber of ise sam - les did not ave a ant ect on the ing ime use ing the ted ion was bly ore ive han ing the ity of ( at ost ) 123 les .
the ain rea - son the dup tor was ess han 123 ( the lue pre - ted in ion 123 ) is use nce ook out ice as any chs as ml to rge .
our nce ple - ion is lso ess zed han the ml ple - ion ich kes ter age of the las
to ore the ect of the ise ion on the nce of the thm , we ied ing ise les rom the ram as ell as the orm ion .
for ach ise ion we ned els ing 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 ise les per dat - int .
as own in ble 123 , the ram ise dis - ion ads to uch ter est set ity in all ses .
ver , the ity gap nks as the ber of ise les ses , rom ost 123 for a gle ise ple own to der 123 for 123 ise les .
in ite of oor est set nce , a orm ise ion did not ead to ing
a ast and ple thm for ing ral tic age els
ity ven hen a gle ise ple was sed .
in ion to the ml and nce hms , we lso ted the nce ing ing lgo - thm rom ( gio & cal , 123 ) to use as a ase - ine , but und it ery ble .
it ged in lly all of our nts , ven ith ive ple ize and the get ive ple ize set to eds .
the nly run hat did not rge ved ing a ram del ing the get ram as the pro - sal ion , ich is the eal ion for im - nce ing .
the use of ure in all ses was the nce of ely rge nce hts nce the del ion ame tly ier - ent rom the ram sal 123 , ich is a own lem ith nce ing .
nce is - sed ods eem to ire ell ver a red les per ent ion ( gio & cal , 123 ) , ven hen an ive sal ion is sed , we ect is - sed ing to be der - bly wer han nce , ich , as we ave own , can eve ml - vel nce ith nly 123 ise sam -
nce ion nge
to ate the ity and ess of our ach we sed it to ain ral rge neu - ral age els for the oft rch sen - nce ion nge ( eig & ges , 123 ) .
the nge was ned as a ark for man - tic els and sts of sat - yle nce ple - ion ems .
ven 123 , 123 ces , ach of ich is ing a ord , the ask is to ect the ect ord out of the ve tes ded for ach nce .
ate rds ave een sen rom ely in - ent rds ing a mum opy del to ure hat the ing ete ces ere not too ble .
man ges hen ked the est our tes for ach nce so hat all ple - ons ere lly ect but the ect an - wer was ous .
ugh ans can eve ver 23% acy on the ask , cal els are uch rse ith the est ult of 23% ced by a ole - nce lsa del , and n - ram els ing nly out 23% acy ( eig & ges ,
ral age els are a ral ice for his ask use hey can ake age of ger con - xts han nal n - ram els , ich we ect
ugh ing a ram sal ion ght ear ive , gio and cal ( 123 ) ted hat her - der n - ram sal ons ked uch rse han the ram .
to be ant for nce ion .
we sed a tly ied lbl ure for our els for his ask .
in the sts of ity , we sed iag - nal ext ght ces ich ced the ime ity of ent ons rom tic to ear in the ity of ord ure ors and wed us to use ore ure ons .
nce the ask was nce ion , we ade the mod - els are of nce ies by ing a ial out - of - nce ken for rds in ext ons ide of the nce ing the ord ing pre - ted .
for ple , his ken uld be sed as the ext ord hen ing the rst ord in a sen - nce ing a del ith a gle - ord ext .
we ore a ate nce ith a age del by ing it to ute the ity of ach ord in the nce and ing the uct of ose bil - ies as the nce ore .
we hen ick the ate ord hat ces the est - ing nce as our wer .
ote hat his way of ing a del ith a c - ord ext kes nto unt c rds on oth des of the ate ord use the ies of the c rds ing the ate ord end on it .
the els ere ned on the ard ing set for the nge ing 123 rks rom ect erg .
ter ing the ect erg ers and ers rom the les , we lit hem nto ces and hen zed the ces nto rds .
we sed the nkt nce zer and the enn ank ord zer rom ltk ( ird et al . , 123 ) .
we hen ted all rds to ase and ced the nes hat red wer han 123 mes ith an own ord ken , ing in a cab - ary ize of ust der 123 , 123
the ces to be ted ere sed in the ame ner .
the ing set was hen mly lit at the sen - nce vel nto a est and ion ets of 23k rds ( 123 ces ) ach and a 23m - ord ing set .
we sed the ing ure bed in ion 123 , ith the ion of ing a all ght lty to oid ing .
ach del ook een one and two ays to ain on a gle ore of a ern cpu .
as a ine for son , we lso ned ral n - ram els ( ith ied ser - ney ing ) ing the ilm kit ( cke , 123 ) , ing lts lar to ose ted by eig & ges
nce we ted ers sed on the ( erg ) ion set ity , we ort the res on the ire ion of 123 , 123 ces , ich ans hat our lts are tly ble to ose of eig & ges ( 123 ) .
as can be een rom ta -
a ast and ple thm for ing ral tic age els
ble 123
acy on the ete msr nce com - ion nge set .
n 123 tes a nal ext .
the lsa ult is rom ( eig & ges , 123 ) .
ext ent ent est
ble 123 , ore ord res and ger ext ads to ter nce in lbl els in rms of oth ac - acy and ity .
the lbl els orm con - bly ter on nce ion han n - ram els , in ite of ing her est ity .
ven the lbl del ith a two - ord ext rms bet - ter han any n - ram del .
the lbl del ith a ve - ord ext , hes the est hed ult on the set .
ote hat the lsa del hat pro - ced hat ult red all rds in a nce , ile an lbl del ith a c - ord xts ers nly the 23c rds hat und the ate ord .
the del ith a 123 - ord ext and 23d ure ors rms the lsa del by a rge mar - gin and ets a new acy ord for the set at
age els lly use the rds ing the ord of est as the ext .
ver , nce we are ted in ing in a ord in the dle of the nce , it kes nse to use oth the ing and the ing rds as the ext for the lan - age del , ing the ext nal .
we ned ral lbl els ith nal con - ext to see her uch els are ior to eir nal - ext rts for nce com - ion .
ing a nce ith a nal del is oth ler and ter : we ply ute the ity of the ate ord der the del us - ing the ext ing the ord .
hus a del is ied nly nce per nce , ead of 123 mes red by the nal els .
as ble 123 ows , the lbl els ith nal
xts eve uch wer est ity han eir nal rts , ich is not ing be - use hey lso ion on rds hat low the ord ing ted .
hat is ing , ver , is hat nal xts ear to be der - bly ess ive for nce ion han idi - nal xts .
ugh the c - ord ext del and c 123 - ord ext del ook at the ame rds hen ing the ing res we bed ove , the nal del ems to ake ter use of the ble ion .
we ave ced a ple and ent hod for ing cal age els sed on ise - ive ion .
our lts how hat the ing thm is ery ble and can uce mod - els hat orm as ell as the nes ned ing axi - mum ood in ess han one - nth of the ime .
in a rge - ale est of the ach , we ned ral neu - ral age els on a ion of ect ten - erg xts , ing ate - of - the - art nce on the oft rch nce ion hal -
ugh we ave own hat the ram ise tri - ion is ent for ing ral age els tly , ext - ent ise ons are rth ing use hey ght ead to ven ter ing by ing the ber of ise sam -
tly , aja et al .
( 123 ) ced a ily of ion ods for zed els hat in - des nce and nce ing as ial ses .
her ers of his ily ght be of est for ing age els , ugh our ary re - lts est hat one of hem orm nce .
lly , we eve hat nce can be ied to any els her han ral or mum - opy lan - age els .
tic ers ith any ses are a ime ate .
we ank yak rao and oyd iot for eir elp - ful nts .
we ank the sby ble oun - ion for ous ing .
