latent dirichlet allocation ( lda ) is a bayesian network that has recently gained much popularity in applications ranging from document modeling to computer vision .
due to the large scale nature of these applications , current inference pro - cedures like variational bayes and gibbs sampling have been found lacking .
in this paper we propose the collapsed variational bayesian inference algorithm for lda , and show that it is computationally efcient , easy to implement and signi - cantly more accurate than standard variational bayesian inference for lda .
bayesian networks with discrete random variables form a very general and useful class of proba - bilistic models .
in a bayesian setting it is convenient to endow these models with dirichlet priors over the parameters as they are conjugate to the multinomial distributions over the discrete random variables ( 123 ) .
this choice has important computational advantages and allows for easy inference in
a class of bayesian networks that has gained signicant momentum recently is latent dirichlet allocation ( lda ) ( 123 ) , otherwise known as multinomial pca ( 123 ) .
it has found important applications in both text modeling ( 123 , 123 ) and computer vision ( 123 ) .
training lda on a large corpus of several million documents can be a challenge and crucially depends on an efcient and accurate inference procedure .
a host of inference algorithms have been proposed , ranging from variational bayesian ( vb ) inference ( 123 ) , expectation propagation ( ep ) ( 123 ) to collapsed gibbs sampling ( 123 ) .
perhaps surprisingly , the collapsed gibbs sampler proposed in ( 123 ) seem to be the preferred choice in many of these large scale applications .
in ( 123 ) it is observed that ep is not efcient enough to be practical while vb suffers from a large bias .
however , collapsed gibbs sampling also has its own problems : one needs to assess convergence of the markov chain and to have some idea of mixing times to estimate the number of samples to collect , and to identify coherent topics across multiple samples .
in practice one often ignores these issues and collects as many samples as is computationally feasible , while the question of topic identication is often sidestepped by using just 123 sample .
hence there still seems to be a need for more efcient , accurate and deterministic
in this paper we will leverage the important insight that a gibbs sampler that operates in a collapsed spacewhere the parameters are marginalized outmixes much better than a gibbs sampler that samples parameters and latent topic variables simultaneously .
this suggests that the parameters and latent variables are intimately coupled .
as we shall see in the following , marginalizing out the parameters induces new dependencies between the latent variables ( which are conditionally inde - pendent given the parameters ) , but these dependencies are spread out over many latent variables .
this implies that the dependency between any two latent variables is expected to be small .
this is
precisely the right setting for a mean eld ( i . e .
fully factorized variational ) approximation : a par - ticular variable interacts with the remaining variables only through summary statistics called the eld , and the impact of any single variable on the eld is very small ( 123 ) .
note that this is not true in the joint space of parameters and latent variables because uctuations in parameters can have a signicant impact on latent variables .
we thus conjecture that the mean eld assumptions are much better satised in the collapsed space of latent variables than in the joint space of latent variables and parameters .
in this paper we leverage this insight and propose a collapsed variational bayesian ( cvb ) inference algorithm .
in theory , the cvb algorithm requires the calculation of very expensive averages .
however , the averages only depend on sums of independent bernoulli variables , and thus are very closely approx - imated with gaussian distributions ( even for relatively small sums ) .
making use of this approxi - mation , the nal algorithm is computationally efcient , easy to implement and signicantly more accurate than standard vb .
123 approximate inference in latent dirichlet allocation
lda models each document as a mixture over topics .
we assume there are k latent topics , each being a multinomial distribution over a vocabulary of size w .
for document j , we rst draw a mixing proportion j = ( jk ) over k topics from a symmetric dirichlet with parameter .
for the ith word in the document , a topic zij is drawn with topic k chosen with probability jk , then word xij is drawn from the zijth topic , with xij taking on value w with probability kw .
finally , a symmetric dirichlet prior with parameter is placed on the topic parameters k = ( kw ) .
the full joint distribution over all parameters and variables is :
p ( x , z , , | , ) =
where njkw = # ( i : xij = w , zij = k ) , and dot means the corresponding index is summed out :
nkw =pj njkw , and njk =pw njkw .
given the observed words x = ( xij ) the task of bayesian inference is to compute the posterior distribution over the latent topic indices z = ( zij ) , the mixing proportions = ( j ) and the topic parameters = ( k ) .
there are three current approaches , variational bayes ( vb ) ( 123 ) , expectation propagation ( 123 ) and collapsed gibbs sampling ( 123 ) .
we review the vb and collapsed gibbs sam - pling methods here as they are the most popular methods and to motivate our new algorithm which combines advantages of both .
123 variational bayes
standard vb inference upper bounds the negative log marginal likelihood log p ( x| , ) using the variational free energy :
with q ( z , , ) an approximate posterior , h ( q ( z , , ) ) = eq ( log q ( z , , ) ) the variational en - tropy , and q ( z , , ) assumed to be fully factorized :
log p ( x| , ) ef ( q ( z , , ) ) = eq ( log p ( x , z , , | , ) ) h ( q ( z , , ) )
q ( z , , ) =yij
q ( zij|ij ) is multinomial with parameters ij and q ( j|j ) , q ( k| k ) are dirichlet with parameters
j and k respectively .
optimizing ef ( q ) with respect to the variational parameters gives us a set of updates guaranteed to improve ef ( q ) at each iteration and converges to a local minimum :
jk = +pi ijk kw = +pij 123 ( xij = w ) ijk ijk exp ( cid : 123 ) ( jk ) + ( kxij ) ( pw
where ( y ) = log ( y )
is the digamma function and 123 is the indicator function .
although efcient and easily implemented , vb can potentially lead to very inaccurate results .
no - tice that the latent variables z and parameters , can be strongly dependent in the true posterior p ( z , , |x ) through the cross terms in ( 123 ) .
this dependence is ignored in vb which assumes that latent variables and parameters are independent instead .
as a result , the vb upper bound on the negative log marginal likelihood can be very loose , leading to inaccurate estimates of the posterior .
123 collapsed gibbs sampling
standard gibbs sampling , which iteratively samples latent variables z and parameters , , can potentially have slow convergence due again to strong dependencies between the parameters and latent variables .
collapsed gibbs sampling improves upon gibbs sampling by marginalizing out and instead , therefore dealing with them exactly .
the marginal distribution over x and z is
p ( z , x| , ) =yj
given the current state of all but one variable zij , the conditional probability of zij is :
p ( zij = k|z
ij , x , , ) =
jk ) ( + nij
( + nij k123=123 ( + nij
jk123 ) ( + nij
) ( w + nij
) ( w + nij
where the superscript ij means the corresponding variables or counts with xij and zij excluded , and the denominator is just a normalization .
the conditional distribution of zij is multinomial with simple to calculate probabilities , so the programming and computational overhead is minimal .
collapsed gibbs sampling has been observed to converge quickly ( 123 ) .
notice from ( 123 ) that zij depends on zij only through the counts nij k .
in particular , the dependence of zij on any particular other variable zi123j 123 is very weak , especially for large datasets .
as a result we expect the convergence of collapsed gibbs sampling to be fast ( 123 ) .
however , as with other mcmc samplers , and unlike variational inference , it is often hard to diagnose convergence , and a sufciently large number of samples may be required to reduce sampling noise .
jk , nij
the argument of rapid convergence of collapsed gibbs sampling is reminiscent of the argument for when mean eld algorithms can be expected to be accurate ( 123 ) .
the counts nij k act as elds through which zij interacts with other variables .
in particular , averaging both sides of ( 123 ) by p ( zij |x , , ) gives us the callen equations , a set of equations that the true posterior must satisfy :
jk , nij
p ( zij = k|x , , ) = ep ( z
jk ) ( +nij
since the latent variables are already weakly dependent on each other , it is possible to replace ( 123 ) by a set of mean eld equations where latent variables are assumed independent and still expect these equations to be accurate .
this is the idea behind the collapsed variational bayesian inference algorithm of the next section .
123 collapsed variational bayesian inference for lda
we derive a new inference algorithm for lda combining the advantages of both standard vb and collapsed gibbs sampling .
it is a variational algorithm which , instead of assuming independence , models the dependence of the parameters on the latent variables in an exact fashion .
on the other hand we still assume that latent variables are mutually independent .
this is not an unreasonable assumption to make since as we saw they are only weakly dependent on each other .
we call this algorithm collapsed variational bayesian ( cvb ) inference .
there are two ways to deal with the parameters in an exact fashion , the rst is to marginalize them out of the joint distribution and to start from ( 123 ) , the second is to explicitly model the posterior of , given z and x without any assumptions on its form .
we will show that these two methods
are equivalent .
the only assumption we make in cvb is that the latent variables z are mutually independent , thus we approximate the posterior as :
q ( z , , ) = q ( , |z ) yij
where q ( zij|ij ) is multinomial with parameters ij .
the variational free energy becomes :
bf ( q ( z ) q ( , |z ) ) = eq ( z ) q ( , |z ) ( log p ( x , z , , | , ) ) h ( q ( z ) q ( , |z ) )
=eq ( z ) ( eq ( , |z ) ( log p ( x , z , , | , ) ) h ( q ( , |z ) ) ) h ( q ( z ) )
we minimize the variational free energy with respect to q ( , |z ) rst , followed by q ( z ) .
since we do not restrict the form of q ( , |z ) , the minimum is achieved at the true posterior q ( , |z ) = p ( , |x , z , , ) , and the variational free energy simplies to :
bf ( q ( z ) ) , min
we see that cvb is equivalent to marginalizing out , before approximating the posterior over z .
as cvb makes a strictly weaker assumption on the variational posterior than standard vb , we have
and thus cvb is a better approximation than standard vb .
finally , we derive the updates for the variational parameters ij .
minimizing ( 123 ) with respect to ijk , we get
q ( , |z ) bf ( q ( z ) q ( , |z ) ) = eq ( z ) ( log p ( x , z| , ) ) h ( q ( z ) ) bf ( q ( z ) ) ef ( q ( z ) ) , min
q ( ) q ( ) ef ( q ( z ) q ( ) q ( ) ) ij ) ( p ( x , zij , zij = k| , ) ) ( cid : 123 ) ij ) ( p ( x , zij , zij = k123| , ) ) ( cid : 123 )
jk123 ) + log ( +nij
jk ) + log ( +nij
) log ( w +nij
) log ( w +nij
ijk = q ( zij = k ) =
123 gaussian approximation for cvb inference
plugging in ( 123 ) , expanding log ( +n ) n , and cancelling terms appearing both in the numerator and denominator , we get
l=123 log ( + l ) for positive reals and positive integers
for completeness , we describe how to compute each expectation term in ( 123 ) exactly in the ap - pendix .
this exact implementation of cvb is computationally too expensive to be practical , and we propose instead to use a simple gaussian approximation which works very accurately and which requires minimal computational costs .
in this section we describe the gaussian approximation applied to eq ( log ( + nij two expectation terms are similarly computed .
assume that nj ( cid : 123 ) 123
notice that nij
pi123=i 123 ( zi123j = k ) is a sum of a large number independent bernoulli variables 123 ( zi123j = k ) each
with mean parameter i123jk , thus it can be accurately approximated by a gaussian .
the mean and variance are given by the sum of the means and variances of the individual bernoulli variables :
jk ) ) ; the other
jk ) =xi123=i
jk ) =xi123=i
we further approximate the function log ( + nij
jk ) , and evaluate its expectation under the gaussian approximation :
jk ) using a second - order taylor expansion about
eq ( log ( + nij
jk ) ) log ( + eq ( nij
123 ( + eq ( nij
jk ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 , the third derivative is small and the taylor series approximation is very accurate .
in fact , we have found experimentally that the gaussian approximation works very well
even when nj is small .
the reason is that we often have i123jk being either close to 123 or 123 thus the variance of nij jk is small relative to its mean and the gaussian approximation will be accurate .
finally , plugging ( 123 ) into ( 123 ) , we have our cvb updates :
jk ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) +eq ( nij
123 ( w +e q ( nij
notice the striking correspondence between ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , showing that cvb is indeed the mean eld version of collapsed gibbs sampling .
in particular , the rst line in ( 123 ) is obtained from ( 123 ) by replacing the elds nij k by their means ( thus the term mean eld ) while the exponentiated terms are correction factors accounting for the variance in the elds .
jk , nij
cvb with the gaussian approximation is easily implemented and has minimal computational costs .
by keeping track of the mean and variance of njk , nkw and nk , and subtracting the mean and variance of the corresponding bernoulli variables whenever we require the terms with xij , zij re - moved , the computational cost scales only as o ( k ) for each update to q ( zij ) .
further , we only need to maintain one copy of the variational posterior over the latent variable for each unique docu - ment / word pair , thus the overall computational cost per iteration of cvb scales as o ( m k ) where m is the total number of unique document / word pairs , while the memory requirement is o ( m k ) .
this is the same as for vb .
in comparison , collapsed gibbs sampling needs to keep track of the current sample of zij for every word in the corpus , thus the memory requirement is o ( n ) while the computational cost scales as o ( n k ) where n is the total number of words in the corpushigher than for vb and cvb .
note however that the constant factor involved in the o ( n k ) time cost of collapsed gibbs sampling is signicantly smaller than those for vb and cvb .
we compared the three algorithms described in the paper : standard vb , cvb and collapsed gibbs sampling .
we used two datasets : rst is kos ( www . dailykos . com ) , which has j = 123 docu - ments , a vocabulary size of w = 123 , a total of n = 123 , 123 words in all the documents and on average 123 words per document .
second is nips ( books . nips . cc ) with j = 123 documents , a vocabulary size of w = 123 , n = 123 , 123 , 123 words in the corpus and on average 123 words per document .
in both datasets stop words and infrequent words were removed .
we split both datasets into a training set and a test set by assigning 123% of the words in each document to the test set .
in all our experiments we used = 123 , = 123 , k = 123 number of topics for kos and k = 123 for nips .
we ran each algorithm on each dataset 123 times with different random initializations .
performance was measured in two ways .
first using variational bounds of the log marginal proba - bilities on the training set , and secondly using log probabilities on the test set .
expressions for the variational bounds are given in ( 123 ) for vb and ( 123 ) for cvb .
for both vb and cvb , test set log probabilities are computed as :
test ) =yij xk
k + eq ( nj )
w + eq ( nk )
note that we used estimated mean values of jk and kw ( 123 ) .
for collapsed gibbs sampling , given s samples from the posterior , we used :
test ) =yij xk
k + ns
w + ns
figure 123 summarizes our results .
we show both quantities as functions of iterations and as his - tograms of nal values for all algorithms and datasets .
cvb converged faster and to signicantly better solutions than standard vb; this conrms our intuition that cvb provides much better approx - imations than vb .
cvb also converged faster than collapsed gibbs sampling , but gibbs sampling attains a better solution in the end; this is reasonable since gibbs sampling should be exact with
figure 123 : left : results for kos .
right : results for nips .
first row : per word variational bounds as functions of numbers of iterations of vb and cvb .
second row : histograms of converged per word variational bounds across random initializations for vb and cvb .
third row : test set per word log probabilities as functions of numbers of iterations for vb , cvb and gibbs .
fourth row : histograms of nal test set per word log probabilities across 123 random initializations .
figure 123 : left : test set per word log probabilities .
right : per word variational bounds .
both as functions of the number of documents for kos .
enough samples .
we have also applied the exact but much slower version of cvb without the gaus - sian approximation , and found that it gave identical results to the one proposed here ( not shown ) .
we have also studied the dependence of approximation accuracies on the number of documents in the corpus .
to conduct this experiment we train on 123% of the words in a ( growing ) subset of the corpus and test on the corresponding 123% left out words .
in gure figure 123 we show both variational bounds and test set log probabilities as functions of the number of documents j .
we observe that as expected the variational methods improve as j increases .
however , perhaps surprisingly , cvb does not suffer as much as vb for small values of j , even though one might expect that the gaussian approximation becomes dubious in that regime .
we have described a collapsed variational bayesian ( cvb ) inference algorithm for lda .
the al - gorithm is easy to implement , computationally efcient and more accurate than standard vb .
the central insight of cvb is that instead of assuming parameters to be independent from latent vari - ables , we treat their dependence on the topic variables in an exact fashion .
because the factorization assumptions made by cvb are weaker than those made by vb , the resulting approximation is more accurate .
computational efciency is achieved in cvb with a gaussian approximation , which was found to be so accurate that there is never a need for exact summation .
the idea of integrating out parameters before applying variational inference has been indepen - dently proposed by ( 123 ) .
unfortunately , because they worked in the context of general conjugate - exponential families , the approach cannot be made generally computationally useful .
nevertheless , we believe the insights of cvb can be applied to a wider class of discrete graphical models beyond lda .
specic examples include various extensions of lda ( 123 , 123 ) hidden markov models with dis - crete outputs , and mixed - membership models with dirichlet distributed mixture coefcients ( 123 ) .
these models all have the property that they consist of discrete random variables with dirichlet priors on the parameters , which is the property allowing us to use the gaussian approximation .
we are also exploring cvb on an even more general class of models , including mixtures of gaussians , dirichlet processes , and hierarchical dirichlet processes .
over the years a variety of inference algorithms have been proposed based on a combination of ( maximize , sample , assume independent , marginalize out ) applied to both parameters and latent variables .
we conclude by summarizing these algorithms in table 123 , and note that cvb is located in the marginalize out parameters and assume latent variables are independent cell .
a exact computation of expectation terms in ( 123 )
we can compute the expectation terms in ( 123 ) exactly as follows .
consider eq ( log ( + nij which requires computing q ( nij
jk ) ( other expectation terms are similarly computed ) .
note that
stochastic em gibbs sampling
assume independent variational em
ep for lda
table 123 : a variety of inference algorithms for graphical models .
note that not every cell is lled in ( marked by ? ) while some are simply intractable .
me is the maximization - expectation algorithm of ( 123 ) and any mcmc means that we can use any mcmc sampler for the parameters once latent variables have been
jk =pi123=i 123 ( zi123j = k ) is a sum of independent bernoulli variables 123 ( zi123j = k ) each with mean
parameter i123jk .
dene vectors vi123jk = ( ( 123 i123jk ) , i123jk ) > , and let vjk = v123jk vnjjk be the convolution of all vi123jk .
finally let vij jk = m ) will be the ( m+123 ) st entry in vij jk ) ) can now be computed explicitly .
this exact implementation requires an impractical o ( n123 jk ) ) .
at the expense of complicating the algorithm implementation , this can be improved by sparsifying the vectors vjk ( setting small entries to zero ) as well as other computational tricks .
we propose instead the gaussian approximation of section 123 , which we have found to give extremely accurate results but with minimal implementation complexity and computational cost .
jk be vjk deconvolved by vijk .
then q ( nij
the expectation eq ( log ( +nij
j ) time to compute eq ( log ( +nij
ywt was previously at nus soc and supported by the lee kuan yew endowment fund .
mw was supported by onr under grant no .
n123 - 123 - 123 - 123 and by nsf under grant no .
123
