we de la di al ( ld ) , a ge pr mo fo co of di da su as te co .
ld is a th - le hi ba mo , in wh ea it of a co is mo as a ni mi ov an un se of to .
ea to is , in tu , mo as an in mi ov an un se of to pr .
in th co of te mo , th to pr pr an ex re of a do .
we pr ef ap in te ba on va me an an em al fo em ba pa es .
we re re in do mo , te cl , an co lt , co to a mi of un mo an th pr ls
in th pa we co th pr of mo te co an ot co of di da .
th go is to nd sh de of th me of a co th en ef pr of la co wh pr th es st re th ar us fo ba ta su as cl , no de , su , an si an re
si pr ha be ma on th pr by re in th el of in - ti re ( ir ) ( ba - ya an ri - ne , 12 ) .
th ba me pr by ir re fo te co me su de in mo in se en ea do in th co to a ve of re nu , ea of wh re - se ra of co .
in th po tf - id sc ( sa an mc , 12 ) , a ba vo of wo or te is ch , an , fo ea do in th co , a co is fo of th nu of oc of ea wo .
af su no , th te fr co is co to an in do fr co , wh me th nu of oc of a
c ( ci : 12 ) 12 da m .
bl , an y .
ng an mi i .
jo .
bl , ng , an jo
wo in th en co ( ge on a lo sc , an ag su no ) .
th en re is a te - by - do ma x wh co co th tf - id va fo ea of th do in th co .
th th tf - id sc re do of ar le to xe - le li of
wh th tf - id re ha so ap fe in it ba id of se of wo th ar di fo do in th co ap al pr a re - ti sm am of re in de le an re li in th wa of in - or in - do st st .
to ad th sh , ir re ha pr se ot di re te , mo no la se in ( ls ) ( de et al . , 12 ) .
ls us a si va de of th x ma to id a li su in th sp of tf - id fe th ca mo of th va in th co .
th ap ca ac si co in la co .
fu , de et al .
ar th th de fe of ls , wh ar li co of th or tf - id fe , ca ca so as of ba li no su as sy an po .
to su th cl re ls , an to st it re st an we , it is us to de a ge pr mo of te co an to st th ab of ls to re as of th ge mo fr da ( pa et al . , 12 ) .
gi a ge mo of te , ho , it is no cl wh on sh ad th ls me ca at to pr mo di , tt th mo to da us ma li or ba me .
a si st fo in th re wa ma by ho ( 12 ) , wh pr th pr ls ( pl ) mo , al kn as th as mo , as an al to ls .
th pl ap , wh we de in de in se 12 , mo ea wo in a do as a sa fr a mi mo , wh th mi co ar mu ra va th ca be vi as re of to .
th ea wo is ge fr a si to , an di wo in a do ma be ge fr di to .
ea do is re as a li of mi pr fo th mi co an th re to a pr di on a xe se of to .
th di is th re de as wi
wh ho wo is a us st to pr mo of te , it is in in th it pr no pr mo at th le of do .
in pl , ea do is re as a li of nu ( th mi pr fo to ) , an th is no ge pr mo fo th nu .
th le to se pr : ( 12 ) th nu of pa - te in th mo gr li wi th si of th co , wh le to se pr wi ov , an ( 12 ) it is no cl ho to as pr to a do ou of th tr se .
to se ho to pr be pl , le us co th fu pr as un th cl of di re me th in ls an pl .
al of th me ar ba on th ba - of - wo as th or of wo in a do ca be ne .
in th la of pr th , th is an as of ex fo th wo in a do ( al , 12 ) .
mo , al le of st fo , th me al as th do ar ex th sp or of th do in a co ca al be ne .
a cl re th du to de fi ( 12 ) es th an co of ex - ch ra va ha a re as a mi di ge an in mi .
th , if we wi to co ex re fo do an wo , we ne to co mi mo th ca th ex of bo wo an do .
la di al
th li of th le to th la di al ( ld ) mo th we pr in th
it is im to em th an as of ex is no eq to an as - su th th ra va ar in an id di .
ra , ex - ab es ca be in as me co in an id di - tr , wh th co is wi re to an un la pa of a pr di .
co , th jo di of th ra va is si an fa wh ma ov th la pa , th jo di ca be qu co .
th , wh an as of ex is cl a ma si as in th do of te mo , an it pr ju is th it le to me th ar co ef , th ex as do no ne le to me th ar re to si fr co or li op .
we ai to de in th cu pa th , by ta th de fi th se , we ca ca si in - do st st vi th mi di .
it is al wo no th th ar a la nu of ge of th ba no of ex , in va fo of pa ex , an th re th - re ar av fo th ca as we ( di , 12 ) .
th , wh th wo th we di in th cu pa fo on si ba - of - wo mo , wh le to mi di fo si wo ( un ) , ou me ar al ap to ri mo th in mi fo la st un su as n - gr or pa .
th pa is or as fo .
in se 12 we in ba no an te .
th ld mo is pr in se 12 an is co to re la va mo in se 12
we di in an pa es fo ld in se 12
an il ex of tt ld to da is pr in se 12
em re in te mo , te cl an co lt ar pr in se 12
fi , se 12 pr ou
no an te
we us th la of te co th th pa , re to en su as wo , do , an co .
th is us in th it he to gu in , pa wh we in la va wh ai to ca ab no su as to .
it is im to no , ho , th th ld mo is no ne ti to te , an ha ap to ot pr in co of da , in da fr do su as co lt , co - ba im re an bi .
in , in se 12 , we pr ex re in th co lt do .
fo , we de th fo te : ( ci : 12 ) a wo is th ba un of di da , de to be an it fr a vo in by f1 , .
we re wo us un - ba ve th ha a si co eq to on an al ot co eq to ze .
th , us su to de co , th vt wo in th vo is re by a v - ve w su th wv = 12 an wu = 12 fo u 12 v .
( ci : 12 ) a do is a se of n wo de by w = ( w1 , w1 , .
, wn ) , wh wn is th nt wo in th se .
( ci : 12 ) a co is a co of m do de by d = fw , w1 ,
bl , ng , an jo
we wi to nd a pr mo of a co th no on as hi pr to
me of th co , bu al as hi pr to ot si do .
la di al
la di al ( ld ) is a ge pr mo of a co .
th ba id is th do ar re as ra mi ov la to , wh ea to is ch - te by a di ov wo . 12
ld as th fo ge pr fo ea do w in a co d : 12
ch n ( ci : 12 ) po ( x ) .
ch q ( ci : 12 ) di ( a ) .
fo ea of th n wo wn :
( a ) ch a to zn ( ci : 12 ) mu ( q ) .
( b ) ch a wo wn fr p ( wn zn , b ) , a mu pr co on th to
se si as ar ma in th ba mo , so of wh we re in su - qu se .
fi , th di k of th di di ( an th th di of th to va z ) is as kn an xe .
se , th wo pr ar pa - i j = p ( w j = 12 zi = 12 ) , wh fo no we tr as a xe qu iz by a k ( ci : 12 ) v ma b wh b th is to be es .
fi , th po as is no cr to an th fo an mo re do le di ca be us as ne .
fu , no th n is in of al th ot da ge va ( q an z ) .
it is th an an va an we wi ge ig it ra in th su de .
a k - di di ra va q ca ta va in th ( k 12 ) - si ( a k - ve li in th ( k 12 ) - si if q i = 12 ) , an ha th fo pr de on th
i ( ci : 12 ) 12 , ( ci : 12 )
is a k - ve wi co a
ja ) =
wh th pa a i > 12 , an wh g ( x ) is th ga fu .
th di is a co di on th si it is in th ex fa , ha ni di su st , an is co to th mu di .
in se 12 , th pr wi fa th de of in an pa es al fo ld .
, a se of n to z , an
, th jo di of a to mi q
gi th pa a an b a se of n wo w is gi by :
, b ) = p ( q
p ( zn ) p ( wn zn , b ) ,
we re to th la mu va in th ld mo as to , so as to ex te - or in , bu we ma no ep cl re th la va be th ut in re pr di on se of wo .
la di al
fi 12 : gr mo re of ld .
th bo ar pl re re .
th ou pl re do , wh th in pl re th re ch of to an wo wi a do .
wh p ( zn ) is si q z , we ob th ma di of a do :
i fo th un i su th zi
in ov q an su ov
p ( zn ) p ( wn zn , b )
, b ) =
, b ) =
p ( q d ja )
fi , ta th pr of th ma pr of si do , we ob th pr - bi of a co :
p ( zd d ) p ( wd zd , b )
th ld mo is re as a pr gr mo in fi 12
as th gu ma cl , th ar th le to th ld re .
th pa a an b ar co - le pa , as to be sa on in th pr of ge a co .
th va q d ar do - le va , sa on pe do .
fi , th va zd an wd ar wo - le va an ar sa on fo ea wo in ea do .
it is im to di ld fr a si di - mu cl mo .
a cl cl mo wo in a tw - le mo in wh a di is sa on fo a co , a mu cl va is se on fo ea do in th co , an a se of wo ar se fo th do co on th cl va .
as wi ma cl mo , su a mo re a do to be as wi a si to .
ld , on th ot ha , in th le , an no th to no is sa re wi th do .
un th mo , do ca be as wi mu to .
st si to th sh in fi 12 ar of st in ba st mo , wh th ar re to as hi mo ( ge et al . , 12 ) , or mo pr as co - di in hi mo ( ka an st , 12 ) .
su mo ar al of re to as pa em ba mo , a te th re no on to a pa mo st , bu al to th me us fo es pa in th mo ( mo , 12 ) .
in - de , as we di in se 12 , we ad th em ba ap to es pa su as a an b in si im of ld , bu we al co fu ba ap
bl , ng , an jo
12 ld an ex a ni se of ra va fz , .
, zn is sa to be ex if th jo di is in to pe
is a pe of th in fr 12 to n :
p ( z1 , .
, zn ) = p ( zp ( 12 ) , .
, zp ( n ) ) .
an in se of ra va is in ex if ev ni su is
de fi re th st th th jo di of an in ex se of ra va is as if a ra pa we dr fr so di an th th ra va in qu we in an id di , co on
in ld , we as th wo ar ge by to ( by xe co di ) an th th to ar in ex wi a do .
by de fi th , th pr - ab of a se of wo an to mu th ha th fo :
p ( zn ) p ( wn zn )
is th ra pa of a mu ov to .
we ob th ld di on do in eq .
( 12 ) by ma ou th to va an en q wi a di
12 a co mi of un
th ld mo sh in fi 12 is so mo el th th tw - le mo of st in th cl hi ba li .
by ma ov th hi to va z , ho , we ca un ld as a tw - le mo .
in pa , le us fo th wo di p ( wj , b ) :
p ( wj , b ) = ( ci : 12 )
p ( wj z , b ) p ( zj ) .
no th th is a ra qu si it de on q
we no de th fo ge pr fo a do w : 12
ch q ( ci : 12 ) di ( a ) .
fo ea of th n wo wn :
( a ) ch a wo wn fr p ( wn , b ) .
th pr de th ma di of a do as a co mi di :
p ( wn , b ) ja ) ar th mi we .
, b ) =
wh p ( wn , b ) ar th mi co an p ( q fi 12 il th in of ld .
it de th di on p ( wj , b ) wh is in fr a pa in of an ld mo .
no th th di on th ( v 12 ) - si is at wi on k + kv pa ye ex a ve in mu st .
la di al
fi 12 : an ex de on un di p ( wj , b ) un ld fo th wo an fo to .
th tr em in th x - y pl is th 12 - d si re al po mu di ov th wo .
ea of th ve of th tr - gl co to a de di th as pr on to on of th wo th mi of an ed gi pr 12 to tw of th wo an th ce of th tr is th un di ov al th wo .
th fo po ma wi an x ar th lo of th mu di p ( wj z ) fo ea of th fo to , an th su sh on to of th si is an ex of a de ov th ( v 12 ) - si ( mu di of wo ) gi by ld .
re wi ot la va mo
in th se we co ld to si la va mo fo te un mo , a mi of un , an th pl mo .
fu , we pr a un ge in - ti of th mo wh hi th ke di an si .
12 un mo
un th un mo , th wo of ev do ar dr in fr a si
th is il in th gr mo in fi 12 .
bl , ng , an jo
( b ) mi of un
( c ) pl / as mo
fi 12 : gr mo re of di mo of di da .
12 mi of un
if we au th un mo wi a di ra to va z ( fi 12 ) , we ob a mi of un mo ( ni et al . , 12 ) .
un th mi mo , ea do is ge - er by rs ch a to z an th ge n wo in fr th co mu p ( wj z ) .
th pr of a do is :
p ( w ) = ( ci : 12 )
wh es fr a co , th wo di ca be vi as re of to un th as th ea do ex ex on to .
as th em re in se 12 il , th as is of to li to ef mo a la co of in co , th ld mo al do to ex mu to to di de .
th is ac at a co of ju on ad pa : th ar k 12 pa as wi p ( z ) in th mi of un , ve th k pa as wi p ( q
ja ) in ld .
12 pr la se in
pr la se in ( pl ) is an wi us do mo ( ho , 12 ) .
th pl mo , il in fi 12 , po th a do la d an a wo wn ar
la di al
co in gi an un to z :
p ( d , wn ) = p ( d ) ( ci : 12 )
p ( wn z ) p ( zj d ) .
th pl mo at to re th si as ma in th mi of un mo th ea do is ge fr on on to .
in a se , it do ca th po th a do ma co mu to si p ( zj d ) se as th mi we of th to fo a pa do d .
ho , it is im to no th d is a du in in th li of do in th tr se .
th , d is a mu ra va wi as ma po va as th ar tr do an th mo le th to mi p ( zj d ) on fo th do on wh it is tr .
fo th re , pl is no a we - de ge mo of do th is no na wa to us it to as pr to a pr un do .
a fu di wi pl , wh al st fr th us of a di in by tr - in do , is th th nu of pa wh mu be es gr li wi th nu of tr do .
th pa fo a k - to pl mo ar k mu di - bu of si v an m mi ov th k hi to .
th gi kv + km pa an th li gr in m .
th li gr in pa su th th mo is pr to ov an , em , ov is in a se pr ( se se 12 ) .
in pr - ti , a te he is us to sm th pa of th mo fo ac pr - ti pe .
it ha be sh , ho , th ov ca oc ev wh te is us ( po et al . , 12 ) .
ld ov bo of th pr by tr th to mi we as a k - pa hi ra va ra th a la se of in pa wh ar ex li to th tr se .
as de in se 12 , ld is a we - de ge mo an ge ea to ne do .
fu , th k + kv pa in a k - to ld mo do no gr wi th si of th tr co .
we wi se in se 12 th ld do no su fr th sa ov is as pl .
12 a ge in
a go wa of il th di be ld an th ot la to mo is by co th ge of th la sp , an se ho a do is re in th ge un ea mo .
al fo of th mo de ab , mi of un , pl , an ld op in th sp of di ov wo .
ea su di ca be vi as a po on th ( v 12 ) - si , wh we ca th wo si .
th un mo nd a si po on th wo si an po th al wo in th co co fr th co di .
th la va mo co k po on th wo si an fo a su - si ba on th po , wh we ca th to si .
no th an po on th to si is al a po on th wo si .
th di la va mo us th to si in di wa to ge a do .
( ci : 12 ) th mi of un mo po th fo ea do , on of th k po on th wo si ( th is , on of th co of th to si ) is ch ra an al th wo of th do ar dr fr th di co to th po .
bl , ng , an jo
fi 12 : th to si fo th to em in th wo si fo th wo .
th co of th wo si co to th th di wh ea wo ( re - sp ) ha pr on .
th th po of th to si co to th di di ov wo .
th mi of un pl ea do at on of th co of th to si .
th pl mo in an em di on th to si de by x .
ld pl a sm di on th to si de by th co li .
( ci : 12 ) th pl mo po th ea wo of a tr do co fr a ra ch to .
th to ar th dr fr a do - sp di ov to , i . e . , a po on th to si .
th is on su di fo ea do th se of tr do th de an em di on th to si .
( ci : 12 ) ld po th ea wo of bo th ob an un do is ge by a ra ch to wh is dr fr a di wi a ra ch pa .
th pa is sa on pe do fr a sm di on th to si .
th di ar hi in fi 12
in an pa es
we ha de th mo be ld an il it co ad ov ot la to mo .
in th se , we tu ou at to pr fo in an pa es un ld .
la di al
fi 12 : ( le ) gr mo re of ld .
( ri ) gr mo re
of th va di us to ap th po in ld .
th ke in pr th we ne to so in or to us ld is th of co th po di of th hi va gi a do :
, b ) = p ( q , z , wj
i g ( a
un , th di is in to co in ge .
in , to no th di - bu we ma ov th hi va an wr eq .
( 12 ) in te of th mo pa :
, b ) =
a fu wh is in du to th co be q an b in th su ov la to ( di , 12 ) .
di sh th th fu is an ex un a pa ex to th di di wh ca be re wi sp hy fu .
it ha be us in a ba co fo ce di da to re th po on q wh , in th se , is a ra pa ( di et al . , 12 ) .
i j ) w j
al th po di is in fo ex in , a wi va of ap - ma in al ca be co fo ld , in la ap , va ap , an ma ch mo ca ( jo , 12 ) .
in th se we de a si co - ba va al fo in in ld , an di so of th al in
12 va in
th ba id of co - ba va in is to ma us of je in to ob - ta an ad lo bo on th lo li ( jo et al . , 12 ) .
es , on co a fa of lo bo , in by a se of va pa .
th va pa ar ch by an op pr th at to nd th ti po lo bo .
a si wa to ob a tr fa of lo bo is to co si mo of th or gr mo in wh so of th ed an no ar re .
co in pa th ld mo sh in fi 12 ( le ) .
th pr co be q an b
bl , ng , an jo
ar du to th ed be q , z , an w .
by dr th ed an th w no , an en - in th re si gr mo wi fr va pa , we ob a fa of di on th la va .
th fa is ch by th fo va
q ( q , zj , f ) = q ( q
wh th di pa g an th mu pa ( f 12 , .
, f n ) ar th fr va
ha sp a si fa of pr di , th ne st is to se up an op pr th de th va of th va pa g an f .
as we sh in ap a , th de of nd a ti lo bo on th lo li tr di in th fo op pr :
( g ( ci : 12 ) , f ( ci : 12 ) ) = ar ( g , f )
d ( q ( q , zj , f ) k p ( q , zj , a
th th op va of th va pa ar fo by mi th ku - le ( kl ) di be th va di an th tr po p ( q , zj , a th mi ca be ac vi an it xe - po me .
in pa , we sh in ap a . 12 th by co th de of th kl di an se th eq to ze , we ob th fo pa of up eq :
i + ( ci : 12 ) n
as we sh in ap a . 12 , th ex in th mu up ca be co as fo :
i ) jg ) = y
is th rs de of th lo
fu wh is co vi ta ap -
ti ( ab an st , 12 ) .
( 12 ) an ( 12 ) ha an ap in in .
th di up is a po - ri di gi ex ob ta un th va di , e ( zn n ) .
th mu up is ak to us ba th , p ( zn wn ) ( ci : 12 ) p ( wn zn ) p ( zn ) , wh p ( zn ) is ap by th ex of th ex va of it lo un th va di -
it is im to no th th va di is ac a co di , va as a fu of w .
th oc be th op pr in eq .
( 12 ) is co fo xe w , an th yi op pa ( g ( ci : 12 ) , f ( ci : 12 ) ) th ar a fu of w .
we ca wr th re va di as q ( q , zj ( ci : 12 ) ( w ) , f ( ci : 12 ) ( w ) ) , wh we ha ma th de on w ex .
th th va di ca be vi as an ap to th po di p ( q , zj , a in th la of te , th op pa ( g ( ci : 12 ) ( w ) , f ( ci : 12 ) ( w ) ) ar do - sp .
in pa , we vi th di pa g ( ci : 12 ) ( w ) as pr a re of a do in th to si .
la di al
in f 12
ni : = 12 / k fo al i an n i : = a i + n / k fo al i
fo n = 12 to n
fo i = 12 to k g t+ : = a + ( ci : 12 ) n
to su to 12
fi 12 : a va in al fo ld .
we su th va in pr in fi 12 , wi ap st po fo g an f n .
fr th ps it is cl th ea it of va in fo ld re o ( ( n + 12 ) k ) op .
em , we nd th th nu of it re fo a si do is on th or of th nu of wo in th do .
th yi a to nu of op ro on th or of n1 .
12 pa es
in th se we pr an em ba me fo pa es in th ld mo ( se se 12 fo a fu ba ap ) .
in pa , gi a co of do d = fw , w1 , .
, wm , we wi to nd pa a th ma th ( ma ) lo li of th da :
, b ) =
lo p ( wd ja
as we ha de ab , th qu p ( wj
, b ) ca be co tr .
ho , va in pr us wi a tr lo bo on th lo li , a bo wh we ca ma wi re to a an b .
we ca th nd ap em ba es fo th ld mo vi an al va em pr th ma a lo bo wi re to th va pa g an f , an th , fo xe va of th va pa , ma th lo bo wi re to th mo pa a an b
we pr a de de of th va em al fo ld in ap a . 12
th de yi th fo it al :
( e - st ) fo ea do , nd th op va of th va pa fg ( ci : 12 )
d 12 dg .
th is do as de in th pr se .
( m - st ) ma th re lo bo on th lo li wi re to th mo pa a an b .
th co to nd ma li es wi ex su st fo ea do un th ap po wh is co in
bl , ng , an jo
fi 12 : gr mo re of th sm ld mo .
th tw st ar re un th lo bo on th lo li co .
in ap a . 12 , we sh th th m - st up fo th co mu pa b
ca be wr ou an :
i j ( ci : 12 )
we fu sh th th m - st up fo di pa a ef ne - ra me in wh th he is in in li ti .
ca be im us an
th la vo si th is ch of ma do co cr se pr of sp .
a ne do is ve li to co wo th di no ap in an of th do in a tr co .
ma li es of th mu pa as ze pr to su wo , an th ze pr to ne do .
th st ap to co wi th pr is to sm th mu pa , as po pr to al vo it wh or no th ar ob in th tr se ( je , 12 ) .
la sm is co us th es yi th me of th po di un a un di pr on th mu pa .
un , in th mi mo se , si la sm is no lo ju as a ma a po me ( al it is of im in pr cf .
ni et al . , 12 ) .
in fa , by pl a di pr on th mu pa we ob an in po in th mi mo se , fo mu th sa re th on ob an in po in th ba ld mo .
ou pr so to th pr is to si ap va in me to th ex mo th in di sm on th mu pa .
in th ld se , we ob th ex gr mo sh in fi 12
we tr b as a k ( ci : 12 ) v ra ma ( on ro fo ea mi co ) , wh we as th ea ro is in dr fr an ex di di . 12 we no ex ou in - en pr to tr th b i as ra va th ar en wi a po di , 12
an ex di is si a di di wi a si sc pa h
th de is th sa
as a di ( eq .
12 ) wh a
fo ea co .
la di al
co on th da .
th we mo be th em ba pr of se 12 an co a fu ba ap to ld .
we co a va ap to ba in th pl a se di on
th ra va b
, an z ( at , 12 ) : q ( b 12 : k , z1 : m , q 12 : m jl , f , g ) =
qd ( q d , zd jf d , g d ) ,
wh qd ( q , zj , g ) is th va di de fo ld in eq .
as is ea ve , th re va in pr ag yi eq .
( 12 ) an ( 12 ) as th up eq fo th va pa f an g , re , as we as an ad up fo th ne va pa l :
i j = h +
it th eq to co yi an ap po di on b
, an z .
we ar no le wi th hy h on th ex di , as we as th hy - fr be .
ou ap to se th hy is ag ( ap ) em ba us va em to nd ma li es of th pa ba on th ma li .
th pr ar de in ap a . 12
in th se , we pr an il ex of th us of an ld mo on re da .
ou da ar 12 , 12 do fr a su of th tr ap co ( ha , 12 ) .
af re a st li of st wo , we us th em al de in se 12 to nd th di an co mu pa fo a 12 - to ld mo .
th to wo fr so of th re mu di p ( wj z ) ar il in fi 12 ( to ) .
as we ha ho , th di se to ca so of th un to in th co ( an we ha na th ac to th to ) .
as we em in se 12 , on of th ad of ld ov re la va mo - el is th it pr we - de in pr fo pr un do .
in , we ca il ho ld wo by pe in on a he - ou do an ex th re va po pa .
fi 12 ( bo ) is a do fr th tr ap co wh wa no us fo pa es .
us th al in se 12 , we co th va po di pa g fo th ar an va po mu pa f n fo ea wo in th
re th th it po di pa g
i is ap th it pr di pa - i pl th ex nu of wo wh we ge by th it to ( se eq .
th , th pr di pa su fr th po di pa in th ex nu of wo wh we al to ea to fo a pa do .
fo th ex ar in fi 12 ( bo ) , mo of th g i .
fo to , ho , ar i ( ci : 12 ) 12 ) .
lo at th co di ov si la ( by th , we me g wo id th to wh mi to fo th do ( fi 12 , to ) .
i ar cl to a
bl , ng , an jo
fu in co fr ex th f n pa .
th di ap p ( zn ) an te to pe to on of th k po to va .
in th ar te in fi 12 , th wo ar co co ac to th va ( i . e . , th it co is us if qn ( zi = 12 ) > 12 ) .
wi th il , on ca id ho th di to mi in th do te .
wh de th po of ld , th po an al hi so of it li - it .
in pa , th ba - of - wo as al wo th sh be ge by th sa to ( e . g . , wi ra he fo ) to be al to se di to - ic .
ov th li wo re so fo of ex of th ba ld mo in pa , we mi re th ba - of - wo as by as pa ex or ma of wo se .
ap an em re
in th se , we di ou em ev of ld in se pr do mo , do cl , an co lt .
in al of th mi mo , th ex co lo li of th da ha lo ma - im at th po wh al or so of th mi co ar eq to ea ot .
to av th lo ma , it is im to in th em al ap .
in ou ex , we in em by se ea co mu di wi ve do , re - in th ef to le to tw wo , an sm ac th wh vo .
th is es an ap to th sc de in he an me ( 12 ) .
12 do mo
we tr a nu of la va mo , in ld , on tw te co to co th ge pe of th mo .
th do in th co ar tr as un th , ou go is de es wi to ac hi li on a he - ou te se .
in pa , we co th pe of a he - ou te se to ev th mo .
th pe , us by co in la mo , is mo de in th li of th te da , an is al eq to th in of th ge me pe - wo li .
a lo pe sc in be ge pe . 12 mo fo , fo a te se of m do , th pe is :
pe ( dt ) = ex
d= lo p ( wd )
in ou ex , we us a co of sc ab fr th c .
el co ( av - er , 12 ) co 12 , 12 ab wi 12 , 12 un te , an a su of th tr ap co co 12 , 12 ne ar wi 12 , 12 un te .
in bo ca , we he ou 12 of th da fo te pu an tr th mo on th re 12 .
in pr th da ,
no th we si us pe as a gu of me fo co mo .
th mo th we co ar al un ( ba - of - wo ) mo , wh we ha di in th in of in in th in - ti re co .
we ar no at to do la mo in th pa en th wo re us to ex tr or ot hi - or mo .
we no in pa , ho , th ex of ld co be co th in di - mu ov tr in of un .
we le th ex of su ex to la mo to fu wo .
la di al
\c " \e ca "
ac gv ca
th wi ra he fo wi gi $1 mi to li ce , me - ta op co . , ne yo ph an ju sc .
ou bo fe th we ha a re op to ma a ma on th fu of th pe ar wi th gr an ac ev bi as im as ou tr ar of su in he , me re , ed an th so se , he fo pr ra a .
he sa mo in an th gr .
li ce sh wi be $1 , 12 fo it ne bu , wh wi ho yo ar an pr ne pu fa .
th me op co .
an ne yo ph wi re $1 , 12 ea .
th ju sc , wh mu an th pe ar ar ta , wi ge $1 , 12
th he fo , a le su of th li ce co co fu , wi ma it us an $1 , 12
fi 12 : an ex ar fr th ap co .
ea co co a di fa fr wh
th wo is pu ge .
bl , ng , an jo
sm mi .
un fo in pl
nu of to
sm mi .
un fo in pl
nu of to
fi 12 : pe re on th ne ( to ) an ap ( bo ) co fo ld , th un
mo , mi of un , an pl .
la di al
to ( k ) pe ( mu .
mi . ) pe ( pl )
ta 12 : ov in th mi of un an pl mo fo th ap co .
si be -
io is ob in th ne co ( no re ) .
we re a st li of 12 st wo fr ea co .
fr th ap da , we fu re wo th oc on on .
we co ld wi th un , mi of un , an pl mo de in se - ti 12
we tr al th hi va mo us em wi ex th sa st cr , th th av ch in ex lo li is le th 12 .
bo th pl mo an th mi of un su fr se ov is , th fo di re .
th ph is il in ta 12
in th mi of un mo , ov is a re of pe po in th tr se a ph fa in th su - vi se , wh th mo is kn as th na ba mo ( re , 12 ) .
th le to a ne de cl of th tr do ( in th e - st ) wh is us to de th wo pr in ea mi co ( in th m - st ) .
a pr un do ma be t on of th re mi co , bu wi pr co at le on wo wh di no oc in th tr do th we as to th co .
su wo wi ha a ve sm pr , wh ca th pe of th ne do to ex .
as k in , th do of th tr co ar pa in ne co an th in mo wo wi sm pr .
in th mi of un , we ca al ov th th va ba sm - in sc pr in se 12 .
th en th al wo wi ha so pr un ev mi co .
in th pl ca , th ha cl pr is al by th fa th ea do is al to ex a di pr of to .
ho , pl on re to th tr do - um an a di ov pr ar th is du to th di of th p ( zj ) pa .
on re ap to as pr to a pr un do is by ma ov d :
p ( w ) = ( ci : 12 )
p ( wn z ) p ( zj d ) p ( d ) .
es , we ar in ov th em di on th to si ( se fi 12 ) .
th me of in , th th so , ca th mo to ov .
th do - sp to di ha so co wh ar cl to ze fo th to th do no ap in th do .
th , ce wo wi ha ve sm pr in th es of
bl , ng , an jo
ea mi co .
wh de th pr of a ne do th ma - iz , on th tr do wh ex a si pr of to wi co to th li .
fo a gi tr do to pr , an wo wh ha sm pr in al th co to wi ca th pe to ex .
as k ge la , th ch th a tr do wi ex to th co al th wo in th ne do de an th th pe gr .
no th pl do no ov as qu ( wi re to k ) as th mi of un .
th ov pr es st fr th re th ea fu do ex th sa to pr as we se in on or mo of th tr do .
gi th co , we ar no fr to ch th mo li pr of to fo th ne do .
an al ap is th fo - in he su by ho ( 12 ) , wh on ig th p ( zj ) pa an re p ( zj ) .
no th th gi th pl mo an un ad by al it to re k 12 pa to th te da .
ld su fr ne of th pr .
as in pl , ea do ca ex a di pr of un to .
ho , ld ca ea as pr to a ne do no he ar ne fo a ne do to be en wi a di se of to pr th we as wi do in th tr co .
fi 12 pr th pe fo ea mo on bo co fo di va of k .
th pl mo an mi of un ar su co fo ov .
th la va mo pe be th th si un mo .
ld co pe be th th
12 do cl
in th te cl pr , we wi to cl a do in tw or mo mu ex - cl cl .
as in an cl pr , we ma wi to co ge ap or di ap .
in pa , by us on ld mo fo ea cl , we ob a ge mo fo cl .
it is al of in to us ld in th di fr , an th is ou fo in th se .
a ch as of th do cl pr is th ch of fe .
tr in wo as fe yi a ri bu ve la fe se ( jo , 12 ) .
on wa to re th fe se is to us an ld mo fo di re .
in pa , ld re an do to a xe se of re - va fe po di pa g ( ci : 12 ) ( w ) as wi th do .
it is of in to se ho mu di in we lo in re th do de to th pa .
we co tw bi cl ex us th re - 12 da
da co 12 do an 12 , 12 wo .
in th ex , we es th pa of an ld mo on al th do , wi re to th tr cl la .
we th tr a su ve ma ( sv ) on th lo - di re pr by ld an co th sv to an sv tr on al th wo fe .
us th sv so pa ( jo , 12 ) , we co an sv tr on al th wo fe wi th tr on fe in by a 12 - to ld mo .
no th we re th fe sp by 12 pe in th ca .
la di al
pr of da us fo tr
pr of da us fo tr
fi 12 : cl re on tw bi cl pr fr th re - 12 da fo di pr of tr da .
gr ( a ) is ea vs .
no ea .
gr ( b ) is gr vs .
no gr .
fo in pl sm mi .
un
nu of to
fi 12 : re fo co lt on th ea da .
fi 12 sh ou re .
we se th th is li re in cl pe in us th ld - ba fe in , in al al ca th pe is im wi th ld fe .
al th re ne fu su , th su th th to - ba re pr by ld ma be us as a fa lt al fo fe se in
bl , ng , an jo
12 co lt
ou na ex us th ea co lt da .
in th da se , a co of us in th pr mo ch .
a us an th mo ch ar an to a do an th wo in th do ( re ) .
th co lt ta is as fo .
we tr a mo on a fu ob se of us .
th , fo ea un us , we ar sh al bu on of th mo pr by th us an ar as to pr wh th he - ou mo is .
th di al ar ev ac to th li th as to th he - ou mo .
mo pr , de th pr pe on m te us to be :
pr - pe ( dt ) = ex
d= lo p ( wd , nd
we re th ea da to us th po ra at le 12 mo ( a po ra is at le fo ou of ve st ) .
we di th se of us in 12 tr us an 12
un th mi of un mo , th pr of a mo gi a se of ob mo
is ob fr th po di ov to :
p ( wj ) = ( ci : 12 )
in th pl mo , th pr of a he - ou mo is gi by th sa eq ex th p ( zj ) is co by fo in th pr se mo .
fi , in th ld mo , th pr of a he - ou mo is gi by in ov th po di :
p ( wj ) p ( zj ) p ( q jw ) dq ,
wh p ( q jw ) is gi by th va in me de in se 12 .
no th th qu is ef to co .
we ca in th su an in si , an co a li co of k di ex .
wi a vo of 12 mo , we nd th pr pe il in fi 12
ag , th mi of un mo an pl ar co fo ov , bu th be pr pe ar ob by th ld mo .
we ha de la di al , a ex ge pr mo fo co - ti of di da .
ld is ba on a si ex as fo th wo an to in a do it is th re by a st ap of de fi re - se th .
we ca vi ld as a di re te , in th sp of ls , bu wi pr un ge pr se th ma se fo th ty of da th it mo .
ex in is in fo ld , bu an of a la su of ap in al - ri ca be us fo in an pa es wi th ld fr .
we ha pr a si co - ba va ap fo in , sh th it yi a fa
la di al
al re in re co pe in te of te se li .
ot ap th mi be co in la ap , hi - or va te - ni , an mo ca me .
in pa , le an ka ( 12 ) ha pr a ge me fo co lo - or va lo bo in hi - or va - ti bo .
it is al po to ac hi ac by di wi th re of ma a bo , an in mi an la ( 12 ) ha sh th im in ac ca be ob fo th ld mo vi a hi - or va te kn as ex - pe pr .
fi , gr an st ( 12 ) ha pr a ma ch mo ca al fo ld .
ld is a si mo , an al we vi it as a co to me su as ls an pl in th se of di re fo do co an ot di co - po , it is al in to be il of th wa in wh pr mo ca be sc up to pr us in ma in do in mu le of st .
in - de , th pr ad of ge mo su as ld in th mo an th ex .
as a pr mo , ld ca be re em in a mo co mo a pr th is no po by ls .
in re wo we ha us pa of ld mo to mo re be im an th co de ca ( bl an jo , 12 ) .
mo , th ar nu po ex of ld .
fo ex , ld is re ex to co da or ot no - mu da .
as is th ca fo ot mi mo , in ni mi mo an hi ma mo , th em pr p ( wn zn ) co on a li va to th in pr fo ld , an ot li ar re su in it pl .
in pa , it is st to de a co va of ld in wh ga ob ar us in pl of mu .
an si ex of ld co fr al mi of di di in th pl of th si di of ld .
th al a ri st in th la to sp an in pa al a fo of do cl th is di fr th cl th is ac vi sh to .
fi , a va of ex of ld ca be co in wh th di on th to va ar el .
fo ex , we co ar th to in a ti se , es re th fu ex as to on of pa ex .
we co al co pa ex mo in wh we co on ex va th , fo ex , th to di co be co on fe su as pa or se , pr a mo po te mo th ma us of in ob fr a pa .
th wo wa su by th na sc fo ( ns gr ii - 12 ) an th mu re pr of th de of de ( mu n1 - 12 - 12 - 12 ) .
an y .
ng an da m .
bl we ad su by fe fr th mi
