nt rk in ed re ng nd ep ng as wn at be - ng le to in ge ls an ly ve ce .
in is er , we er he em of ng a ep rk th ns of rs ng ns of ds of pu es .
we ve ed a re rk ed ef at an ze ng rs th ds of es to in ge ls .
in is rk , we ve ed wo ms or ge - le ed ng : ( i ) ur gd , an us ic nt nt re ng a ge er of el as , nd ( ii ) er , a rk at ts a ty of ed ch on es , ng a ed on of l - gs .
ur gd nd er l - gs th se he le nd ed of ep rk in - ng .
we ve ly ed ur em to in a ep rk 3x er an ly ed in he re , nd es te - of - he - rt ce on et , a al ct on sk th 23 on es nd 3k te - es .
we ow at se me es ly te he ng of a re ly - ed ep rk or a al ch on er - ce .
gh we us on nd rt ce of se ds as ed to ng ge al ks , he ng ms re le to ny nt - ed ne ng hm .
ep ng nd ed re ng ve wn at se in ny al ap - ns .
te - of - he - rt ce as en ed in al ns , ng om ch on ( 23 , 23 ) , al ct on ( 23 , 23 ) , to xt ng ( 23 , 23 ) .
it as so en ed at ng he le of ep ng , th ct to he er of ng es , he er of el rs , or th , an ly ve te on cy ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
se ts ve ed to a ge of st in ng up he ng nd ce ms ed or se ls ( 23 ) nd in ng le on es ( 23 , 23 ) .
he se of us ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) is a nt ce in nt rs at es he ng of ly ed ep ks al .
a wn on of he pu ch is at he ng ed - up is ll en he el es ot t in pu ry ( ly ss an 23 es ) .
to se a pu ly , rs en ce he ze of he ta or rs so at pu - to - pu rs re ot a nt ck .
le ta nd er on rk ll or ll ms ( e . g .
ic ng or ch on ) , ey re ss ve or ms th a ge er of es nd ns ( e . g . , gh - on es ) .
in is er , we be an ve ch : ng ge - le rs of es to te ng nd ce in ep ks .
we ve ed a re rk ed be - ef at es el sm in a ne ( ia ng ) nd ss es ( ia
ge ng ) , th he ls of sm , on nd on ed by he rk .
in on to ng el sm , he ef rk so ts ta sm , re le as of a el re ed to ze a le ve .
in is rk , we ve ed nd ed wo el ds or ge - le ed ng : ( i ) ur gd , an us ic nt nt re ch er - es ve ng es nd ts a ge er of el as , nd ( ii ) er l - gs , a ed on of l - gs at es th ta nd el sm . 23 th ur gd nd er l - gs oy nt ed ns ed to re en - al ns of gd nd l - gs .
ur ts al al ng ts ut ge - le ex on .
ly , us gd , ly ed to ex ms , ks ry ll or ng ep et - ks , ly en ed th ad ( 23 ) ve ng es .
ly , we ow at en nt es , l - gs is ve th or er an ny ts of gd .
th rd to ic ns in ep ng , we rt wo in gs : at ur is - ed on ch an th ly te he ng of ly ed ls , nd at it an so in ls at re er an ld be ed se .
to te he st nt , we ow at we an se a er of es to in a ly ed ch el to he me on cy in ss an 23 / th he me ed on a pu .
to te he nd nt , we ed a ge al rk of re an 23 on rs nd ed is rk to ly ve on te - of - he - rt ce on he et et , ne of he st ts in er on .
23 us rk
in nt rs al nd ic ne ng ta ts ve wn at an ce - ed ce .
in se , a at ny rs ve ed ng up ne ng go - ms gh on nd on ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ch of is ch as ed on ar , ex ls , re ed nt on is he al st ep .
in is ea , me ps ve ed on ts , ng ed di - nt es or ex ms ( 23 , 23 ) .
in el , er ps ng on ms th se ts ( ms re ly a ny on of he es of he nt or re on - ro or ny en ng le ) ve ed ck - ss us ic nt nt on ed - ry es ( i . e .
le es ) ( 23 , 23 ) .
we re ed in an ch at es he st of th ds , ng he se of a er of es ly ng ts , ut ut ng at he em be er ex or se .
in he xt of ep ng , st rk as ed on ng ly ll ls on a le ne ( e . g . , no ( 23 ) ) .
ns or ng up ep ng de he se of a rm of us to in a on of ny ll ls nd ly ng ir ns ( 23 ) , or ng rd ep ks to ke em ly re le ( 23 ) .
ur us is ng ep ng es in he on of ng ry ge ls , se th a ew on rs , ut ut ng ns on he rm of he el .
in al es re ne er es on , me rs ve ed ng on in at ne er nd ng on in he ng rs ( 23 ) .
ut in he al se re ny rs of he el re ly ve , ll el sm in a it ar to ( 23 ) is ed .
to be ul , er , we ve at el sm st be ed th er ed on es at ge ta sm .
we ed a er of ng ge - le al ls or on to ur ob - em , ce ( 23 ) nd ab ( 23 ) ng le es .
we ed at re - ce , ed or el ta ng , as ll - ed or he ve ns nt in ep rk g; as ab , ed or al ( ed ) ph ns , ld ot it ng es le in he ed hs ly nd in ep
we ed l - gs in he er rk , ut he al ch is so le or
a ty of er ch on ds .
re 23 : an le of el sm in ef .
a ve er ep al rk th al ty is wn re , ed ss ur es ( ue es ) .
ly se es th es at ss on es ( ck es ) ll ed to ve ir te ed en es .
en in es re a de as le es ng a on ry , ts te is ly nt to he ne on he er de of at ry ce .
in ch on , on or al es ll he ed ss ll le pu es .
23 el sm
to te he ng of ry ge ep ks , we ve ed a re rk , ef , at ts ed on in al ks nd ed al ls .
he er es he on at es ce at ch de in ch er of he el , nd he es at ld be ed ng he rd nd rd es of on . 23 or ge ls , he er ay on he el ss al es ( re 23 ) , so at on - ty or he on or nt es is ed to nt es .
he rk ly es on in ch ne ng ll le es , nd es om - on , on nd ta er en es ng th ng nd ce .
he ce ts of ng a ep rk ss le es ds on he ty re nd al ds of he el .
ls th a ge er of am - rs or gh al ds ly et om ss to re us nd ry , up to he nt re on ts te .
we ve ly un ge ls th up to 23 ns in he ef rk th nt ps , le re ly ed ls ow nt ps or up to 23 or 23 ns .
( ee on 23 , er he ng el sm ks , or al ts . ) ly , ls th al ty uc - es nd to be re le to ve on an ly - ed es , en ir er on ts .
he al se of ss - an - al ps is ce in ng es ss he nt es , ng to ny es ng or he le st ne to sh a en se of on .
ss , or ur st ls , we an ly se 23 es re ch ne es an ge pu on of 23 es , or a al of 23 pu es ng a le ge al rk .
en ed th he ed on ms ed in he xt on , ch ze le as of he re al rk , it is le to se ns of ds of pu es or ng a le el , ng to nt ns in ll ng es .
23 ed on ms
ng on in he ef rk ws us to te nd un al ks ly er an ve en ly ed .
ut in er to in ch ge ls in a le nt of me , we ed to ze on ot ly in a le
in he se of a al rk rd nd rd ht ly ll be ed rd nd
op , le or a en ov el , ey ht be re ar as rd nd rd .
ne ne ne ne 23 re 23 : ft : ur gd .
el as ly ch rs w nd sh ra - ts w to he er er .
ht : er l - gs .
a le or ds ll es to as nd he er er to te ch on .
ce of he el , ut to te ng ss le el es .
in is on we be is nd el of sm , re we oy a et of ef el es , or as , to ly ve a le on em .
we nt a on of wo ge - le ed on es : ur gd , an ne od , nd er l - gs , a ch od .
th ds ge he pt of a ed ed er er , ch el as se to re ir rs .
th ds ke ge of he ed on ef ws in ch al ca .
ut st ly , th ds re ed to te ce in he ng ed of nt el as , nd en he le re of el as ch ay be en ne or ed at om .
in a se , se wo on ms nt an nt on of ta sm .
th es ow us to ly ss ct ng es in ch of he ny el as , nd ly ne ir ts to ze ur ve on .
23 ur gd
ic nt nt ( gd ) is ps he st ly ed on re or ng ep al ks ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ly , he al on of gd is ly al , ng it al to ly to ry ge ta ts re he me ed to ve gh he ta in an ly al on is ve .
to ly gd to ge ta ts , we ce ur gd , a nt of us as - ic nt nt at es le as of a le ef el .
he ic ch is as ws : we de he ng ta to a er of ts nd un a py of he el on ch of se ts .
he ls te es gh a ed er er , ch ps he nt te of ll rs or he el , ed ss ny es ( e . g . , if we ve 23 er er ds , ch rd is le or ng nd ng es to 23 / th of he el rs ) ( re 23 ) .
is ch is us in wo ct as - ts : he el as un ly of ch er , nd he er er ds so un ly of ne er .
in he st on , re ng ch ni - ch , a el ca ks he pa - er er ce or an ed py of ts el rs .
se ef ls re es ed ss le es , ch ne ds to te th st he et of er er ds at ld he el rs nt to ts on .
er ng an ed py of ts rs , he ef el ca es a ni - ch of ta to te a er nt , nd ds he nt to he er er , ch en es he nt to he nt ue of he el rs .
it is le to ce he on ad of ur gd by ng ch el ca to st ed rs ly ry nf ch ps nd nd ed nt es ly ry sh ps ( re nf ch ht ot be al to sh ) .
in ct , he ss of ng
er sw = w - er or ( ll es ) rs , ng ts , nd ng ng ta an be ed ut in ee ly ly ed ds ( ee he ix or de ) .
in he ts ed ow we ed nf ch = sh = 23 or ty nd se of on to al gd .
ur gd is re st to es es an rd ( us ) gd .
or yn - us gd , if ne ne ls , he re ng ss is d; as or us gd , if ne ne in a el ca ls , he er el as ue ng ir ng ta nd ng he el rs ia he er rs .
on he er nd , he le ms of us ng in ur gd ce a at al of al ty in he on re .
st ly , a el ca is st ly ng ts ts ed on a et of rs at re ly ut of te , in at me er el ca ll ly ve ed he rs on he er er in he me .
ut re re al er es of ty nd is : se he er er ds ct ly , re is no ee at at ny en nt he rs on ch rd of he er er ve ne he me er of es , or at he es re ed in he me er .
er , se he el as re ed to ch rs nd sh ts in te ds , re ay be al le es in he ps of rs .
re is le al ng or he ty of se ns or ex ms , ut in ce we nd ng cy ts to be ly ve .
ne ue at we ve nd to ly se he ss of ur gd is he se of he ad ( 23 ) ve ng te re .
er an ng a le ed ng te on he er er ( in re 23 ) , ad es a te ve ng te or ch er .
et i , k be he ng te of he i - th er at on k nd wi , k ts nt , en we et : i , k = / 23
se se ng es re ed ly om he ed ed ts of ch er , ad is ly ed ly in ch er er rd .
he ue of , he nt ng or or ll ng es , is ly er ( ps by an er of de ) an he st ed ng te ed ut ad .
he se of ad ds he um er of el as at an ly rk ly , nd ed th a ce of ng el ng th ly a le el ca re ng he er as , it as ly ed ty ns in ng ep ks ng ur gd ( ee ts in on 23 ) .
23 er l - gs
ch ds ve en wn to rk ll in ng ll ep ks ( 23 ) .
to ly se ds to ge ls nd ge ts , we ce he er ch on me - rk nd ss an on of l - gs ng is rk .
a ey ea in er is ed er ge nd on .
he re of he ti - on hm ( e . g l - gs ) es in a or ss ( re 23 ) , ch es ot ve ct ss to he el rs .
ad , he or es ds wn om a ll et of ns ( e . g . , ot ct , ng , nt - se on , on ) at an be ed by ch er er rd ly , th he ts ng ed ly on he me rd .
al on , e . g he ry he or l - gs , is so ed on he er er rd on ch it as ed .
is ws ng ge ls ( ns of rs ) ut ng he ad of ng ll he rs nd ts to a le al er .
( ee he ix or de . ) in al ed ns of l - gs , ta is ed to ny es nd ch ne is le or ng he nt on a ic et of ta es .
he ra - ts re nt ck to a al er ( or ed ia a ee ( 23 ) ) .
ny ch ds it or he st ne , nd re do ot le ll to ge ed rs .
to nt or is em , we oy he ng ad ng me : he or ns ch of he n el as a ll on of rk , ch er an 23 / th of he al ze of a ch , nd ns as ew ns er ey re ee .
th is ch , er el as do re rk an er as .
to er ge ow el as at he nd of a ch , he or es le es of he ng ns nd es he lt om er el ca es st .
is me is ar to he se of up ks in he ce rk ( 23 ) .
ng of ta , ng th ng ta ty by ng al
ns of ta to he me er es ta ss a on - ue .
in st th ur gd , ch es ly gh cy , gh th er on th he er er , er rs ly ch rs at he ng of ch ch ( en ey ve en ed by he or ) , nd ly nd he ts ry ew ed or - ns ( to ct st ca es nd ts ) .
we ed ur on ms by ng em to ng ls or wo nt ep ng ms : ct on in ll es nd ic ng or ch on .
he ch on sk as to fy he al on ( or me ) in a rt et of io as ne of al nd ic es .
we ed a ep rk th ve rs : ur en er th al ns nd 23 es ch , nd a ax ut er th 23 es .
he ut on as 23 ve ng 23 ms es of ch , ch ed by 23 og - gy es .
he rk as ly - ed er - to - er , or a al of ly 23 on el rs .
we ed on a ta et of 23 on ly ed es , nd ed on a ld ut st et .
ee ( 23 ) or ar ep rk ns nd ng or al ct on we ed a er al rk th ly - ed ve ds on he et ta et of 23 on es , ch of ch we ed to 23 ls ( 23 ) .
he rk ad ee es , ch ed of ng , ng nd al st on , re ch de in he ng er as ed to a 23 ch in he er ow .
ur re ws ny es to ct to he me ut ch , nd we an ts ng he er of ly ed es om 23 to 23
he ut er ed of 23 nd ne - vs - ll ic er es , ne or ch of he et ct es .
ee ( 23 ) or ar ep rk ns nd ng es .
el sm ks : to re he ng or of ef el sm ( on 23 ) , we ed he an me to ss a le ni - ch or le gd ng as a on of he er of ns ( es ) ed in a le el ce .
in re 23 we fy he ct of ng ss n es by ng he ge ng ed - up : he io of he me en ng ly a le ne to he me en ng n .
ps or ce ps in se ls re ar nd re ot wn re .
he ly ed ch el ns st on 23 es , ng 23 er an ng a le ne .
( ls re ed to se no re an 23 es er ne . ) ng
re 23 : ng ed - up or ur nt ep ks as a on of es ed to a le ef el ce .
ls th re rs et re om he se of al es an do ls th er rs .
es er el ng ed ( id : 23 ) up ch : 3m es : 3m es : 3m es : 3b rs re 23 : ft : ng cy ( on a on of he ng et ) or nt on th - ds .
ht : on cy on he ld ut st et as a on of ng me .
ur nd er ts ed ng he me 23 ur rt of le gd .
he el on re an 23 es ly ws ng , as rk ad ts to te in he ly - ed rk re nd re is ss rk or ch ne to rm th in st , he ch er , ly - ed ge ls an et om ng ny re es er el ca .
he st el , th 23 on rs ts he st , ng a up of re an 23 ng 23 es .
or se ge ls ng re es es to se ed , ut th ng ns .
on od ns : to te he ed ed on ce - es , we an he ch el ed ve in a ty of ns .
we er wo ne on es : ng a ef el ( on 23 ns ) ng al ( le ca ) gd , nd ng he al el on a pu ng da ( 23 ) .
he ee is - ed on ds we re to se ne ds re : ur gd th a ed ng te , ur gd th ad ng es , nd er l - gs .
re 23 ws on ce as a on of ng me or ch of se ds on th he ng nd st ts .
ur al is to in he um st et cy in he um nt of ng me , ss of ce ts .
al le ca gd ( ck es ) is he st to in .
ur gd th 23 el as ( ue es ) ws a nt nt .
ur gd th 23 as us ad ( ge ve ) is ly er .
er l - gs ng 23 el as ( en es ) is ly er et in .
he st , er , is ur gd us ad th 23 el as ( ed es ) .
en ss to nt pu es , th er l - gs nd ur gd th ad an in ls ly er an a gh ce pu .
gh we id ot ne he ve ts to a ed ce et , it is ng to er ow he us ds de ff ce on or ce .
we ze is by ly ng a ed st et cy ( 3% ) , nd ng he me ch od ok to ch at cy as a on of es nd ed pu es , re 23
ne of he ur ts on ch es ds to a ng on wn in re 23 , he er ee ts re ve ns .
in is ot , ts er to he in re le in at ey ke ss me le ng er re - es .
in is rd ur gd ng ad rs to be he st de - ff : or ny ed et of es or es , ur gd th ad es ss me to ch he cy et an er ur gd th a ed ng te or er l - gs .
or ny ed ng me to ch he cy et , ur gd th ad ed ew es an er l - gs , nd in ny es ur gd th a ed ng te ld ot en ch he et in he ne .
he er l - gs em es ow se in ms
me ( rs ) ge me cy ( % ) cy on ng et gd ( 23 ) gd ( 23 ) gd ( 23 ) w / er gs ( 23 ) me ( rs ) ge me cy ( % ) cy on st et gd ( 23 ) pu ( 23 ) gd ( 23 ) gd ( 23 ) w / gd ( 23 ) w / er gs ( 23 ) re 23 : me to ch a ed cy ( 3% ) or nt on es as a on of er of he es ( ft ) nd es ( ht ) .
of ts ng th al es , ng at it ay ly ce he st ng es if ed th an ly ge ce et ( e . g . , 3k es ) .
on to et : he us ts te at ur es an el - te he ng of al ks th ns of ns of rs .
er , he re ig - nt ge of ur er - ed ch to ed on is ts ty to le to ls at re ch er an an be ly t on le ne , et ne a le pu .
as a st ep rd ng he es of ry ge al ks , we ed ur gd to in he 23 on er ge el ed ve on he et ct si - on sk .
as ed in ( 23 ) , is rk ed a ss - ed on cy of er 3% , a ve nt er 3% om he st ce we re re of on he 3k ry et on sk .
in is er we ed ef , a rk or el ed ng of ep et - ks .
in is rk , we ed al ve ed on es .
we nd at ur gd , a ly us nt of gd ks ly ll or ng ex ep ng ls .
er l - gs , a ed on of l - gs , an be ve th gd , nd ts re nt se of rk th es it to le to a er er of nt es or ng a le el .
at id , he bi - on of ur gd th he ad ve ng te re es as he ly nt od en ng th a al et of 23 pu es or ss .
ad as ot ly ed to be ed th us gd , nd er od is ly ed to ex ms .
it is ng , re , at ey rk so ll er , nd on ly ar ep ks .
we re at ad ly es le rs in he ce of he ry of us es , nd ly ts ng es to he ds of nt rs in he ep rk .
ur ts ow at ur ew ge - le ng ds an se a er of es to in en ly ed ep ks ly er an a pu , nd ut he us on on he um ze of he el .
to te he ue of ng le to in er ls , we ve ed a el th er 23 on rs to ve er an te - of - he - rt ce on he et ct on ge .
he rs ld ke to nk my io , om an , hn hi , al er , ck en , am er , an un , nd nt ke or ir le ce , rt , nd ts .
