we be nt et on ( da ) , a ve ic el or ns of te ta ch as xt ra .
da is a ee - el al an el , in ch ch em of a on is ed as a te re er an ng et of cs .
ch ic is , in rn , ed as an te re er an ng et of ic es .
in he xt of xt ng , he ic es de an it on of a nt .
we nt nt te ce es ed on al ds nd an em hm or al es er on .
we rt ts in nt ng , xt on , nd ve ng , ng to a re of ms el nd he ic si
in is er we er he em of ng xt ra nd er ns of te ta .
he al is to nd rt ns of he rs of a on at le nt ng of ge ns le ng he al al ps at re ul or ic ks ch as on , ty on , on , nd ty nd ce
nt ss as en de on is em by rs in he ld of ma - on al ( ir ) ( za - es nd ro - to , 23 ) .
he ic gy ed by ir rs or xt aa gy ly ed in rn et ch es ch nt in he us to a or of al rs , ch of ch re - ts os of ts .
in he ar tf - df me ( on nd ll , 23 ) , a ic ry of ds or ms is en , nd , or ch nt in he us , a nt is ed of he er of es of ch rd .
er le on , is rm cy nt is ed to an se nt cy nt , ch es he er of es of a
c ( id : 23 ) 23 id m .
ei , ew y .
ng nd el i .
an .
ei , ng , nd an
rd in he re us ( ly on a og le , nd in ly ed ) .
he nd lt is a rm - by - nt ix x se ns in he tf - df es or ch of he ts in he us .
us he tf - df me es ts of ry th to ed - th ts of
le he tf - df on as me ng ly in ts ic on of ts of ds at re ve or ts in he he ch so es a la - ly ll nt of on in on th nd ls le in he ay of er - or ra - nt al re .
to ss se gs , ir rs ve ed al er ty on es , st ly nt ic ng ( si ) ( er et al . , 23 ) .
si es a ar ue on of he x ix to fy a ar ce in he ce of tf - df es at es st of he ce in he on .
is ch an ve nt on in ge ns .
re , er et al .
ue at he ed es of si , ch re ar ns of he al tf - df es , an re me ts of ic ic ns ch as my nd my .
to te he ms ng si , nd to dy ts ve hs nd es , it is ul to op a ve ic el of xt ra nd to dy he ty of si to er ts of he ve el om ta ( ou et al . , 23 ) .
en a ve el of xt , er , it is ot ar hy ne ld pt he si ne an pt to ed re ly , ng he el to ta ng um od or an ds .
a nt ep rd in is rd as de by nn ( 23 ) , ho ed he ic si ( si ) el , so wn as he ct el , as an ve to si .
he si ch , ch we be in il in on 23 , ls ch rd in a nt as a le om a re el , re he re ts re al om es at an be ed as ns of cs .
us ch rd is ed om a le ic , nd nt ds in a nt ay be ed om nt cs .
ch nt is ed as a st of ng ns or se re ts nd by ed to a ty on on a ed et of cs .
is on is he ed on ed th
le ns rk is a ul ep rd ic ng of xt , it is te in at it es no ic el at he el of ts .
in si , ch nt is ed as a st of rs ( he ng ns or cs ) , nd re is no ve ic el or se rs .
is ds to al ms : ( 23 ) he er of me - rs in he el ws ly th he ze of he us , ch ds to us ms th ng , nd ( 23 ) it is ot ar ow to gn ty to a nt de of he ng et .
to ee ow to ed nd si , et us er he al ic ns ng he ss of ty on ds at es si nd si .
ll of se ds re ed on he ag - of - ds at he er of ds in a nt an be ed .
in he ge of ty ry , is is an on of ty or he ds in a nt ( us , 23 ) .
er , gh ss en ed ly , se ds so me at ts re e; he ic ng of he ts in a us an so be ed .
a ic on em ue to de ti ( 23 ) es at ny on of ex - le om es as a on as a re in al an te re .
us , if we sh to er le ns or ts nd ds , we ed to er re ls at re he ty of th ds nd ts .
nt et on
is ne of ng ds to he nt et on ( da ) el at we nt in he
it is nt to ze at an on of ty is ot nt to an as - on at he om es re nt nd ly ed .
er , ge - ty ly an be ed as ng ly nt nd ly is - ed , re he ng is th ct to an ng nt er of a ty on .
ly , he nt on of he om es is le nd ed le ly er he nt er , he nt on an be te ex .
us , le an on of ty is ly a or ng on in he in of xt ng , nd ts al on is at it ds to ds at re ly nt , he ty ns do ot ly ad to ds at re ed to le cy ts or ar ns .
we im to te in he nt er at , by ng he de ti em ly , we an re nt ra - nt al re ia he ng on .
it is so th ng at re re a ge er of ns of he ic on of ty , ng us ms of al ty , nd at on eo - ms re le or se es as ll ( is , 23 ) .
us , le he rk at we ss in he nt er es on le ag - of - ds ls , ch ad to re ns or le ds ( ms ) , ur ds re so le to er ls at ve es or er al ts ch as n - ms or hs .
he er is ed as ws .
in on 23 we ce ic on nd gy .
he da el is ed in on 23 nd is ed to ed nt le ls in on 23
we ss ce nd er on or da in on 23
an ve le of ng da to ta is ed in on 23
al ts in xt ng , xt on nd ve ng re ed in on 23
ly , on 23 ts ur
on nd gy
we se he ge of xt ns ut he er , ng to es ch as ds , ts , nd ra .
is is ul in at it ps to de on , ly en we ce nt es ch im to re ct ns ch as cs .
it is nt to te , er , at he da el is ot ly ed to xt , nd as ns to er ms ng ns of ta , ng ta om ns ch as ve ng , nt - ed ge al nd cs .
ed , in on 23 , we nt al ts in he ve ng in .
ly , we ne he ng ms : ( id : 23 ) a rd is he ic it of te ta , ed to be an em om a ry ed by 23 , .
we nt ds ng it - is rs at ve a le nt al to ne nd ll er ts al to ro .
us , ng ts to te ts , he th rd in he ry is ed by a v - or w ch at wv = 23 nd wu = 23 or u 3= v .
( id : 23 ) a nt is a ce of n ds ed by w = ( 23 , 23 , .
, wn ) , re wn is he th rd in he ce .
( id : 23 ) a us is a on of m ts ed by d = 23 , 23 ,
ei , ng , nd an
we sh to nd a ic el of a us at ot ly ns gh ty to
rs of he us , ut so ns gh ty to er ar ts .
nt et on
nt et on ( da ) is a ve ic el of a us .
he ic ea is at ts re ed as om es er nt cs , re ch ic is ac - ed by a on er ds . 23
da es he ng ve ss or ch nt w in a us d : 23
se n ( id : 23 ) on ( x ) .
se q ( id : 23 ) ir ( a ) .
or ch of he n ds wn :
( a ) se a ic zn ( id : 23 ) al ( q ) .
( b ) se a rd wn om p ( nj zn , b ) , a al ty ed on he ic
al ng ns re de in is ic el , me of ch we ve in se - nt ns .
st , he ty k of he et on ( nd us he ty of he ic le z ) is ed wn nd ed .
nd , he rd es re er - i j = p ( w j = 3j zi = 23 ) , ch or ow we at as a ed ty ed by a k ( id : 23 ) v ix b re b at is to be ed .
ly , he on on is ot al to ng at ws nd re ic nt th ns an be ed as ed .
re , te at n is nt of ll he er ta ng es ( q nd z ) .
it is us an ry le nd we ll ly re ts ss in he nt nt .
a k - al et om le q an ke es in he ( k 23 ) - ex ( a k - or es in he ( k 23 ) - ex if q i = 23 ) , nd as he ng ty ty on is
i ( id : 23 ) 23 , ( id : 23 )
is a k - or th ts a
ja ) =
re he er a i > 23 , nd re g ( x ) is he ma on .
he et is a nt on on he ex it is in he al ly , as te al nt cs , nd is te to he al on .
in on 23 , se es ll te he nt of ce nd er on ms or da .
, a et of n cs z , nd
, he nt on of a ic re q
en he rs a nd b a et of n ds w is en by :
, b ) = p ( q
p ( jq ) p ( nj zn , b ) ,
we er to he nt al es in he da el as cs , so as to it xt - ed ns , ut we ke no al ms ng se nt es nd ir ty in ng ty ns on ts of ds .
nt et on
re 23 : al el on of da .
he es re es ng es .
he er te ts ts , le he er te ts he ed ce of cs nd ds in a nt .
re p ( jq ) is ly q z , we in he al on of a nt :
i or he ue i ch at zi
ng er q nd ng er
p ( jq ) p ( nj zn , b )
, b ) =
, b ) =
p ( q d ja )
ly , ng he ct of he al es of le ts , we in he ba - ty of a us :
p ( jq d ) p ( nj dn , b )
he da el is ed as a ic al el in re 23
as he re es ar , re re ee ls to he da on .
he rs a nd b re us - el rs , ed to be ed ce in he ss of ng a us .
he es q d re nt - el es , ed ce er nt .
ly , he es dn nd dn re rd - el es nd re ed ce or ch rd in ch nt .
it is nt to sh da om a le et - al ng el .
a al ng el ld ve a wo - el el in ch a et is ed ce or a us , a al ng le is ed ce or ch nt in he us , nd a et of ds re ed or he nt al on he er le .
as th ny ng ls , ch a el ts a nt to ng ed th a le ic .
da , on he er nd , es ee ls , nd ly he ic de is ed ly in he nt .
er is el , ts an be ed th le cs .
es ar to at wn in re 23 re en ed in an al ng , re ey re ed to as al ls ( an et al . , 23 ) , or re ly as on - ly nt al ls ( ss nd ey , 23 ) .
ch ls re so en ed to as ic al es ls , a rm at rs ot ly to a ar el re , ut so to he ds ed or ng rs in he el ( is , 23 ) .
in - ed , as we ss in on 23 , we pt he al es ch to ng rs ch as a nd b in le ns of da , ut we so er er an es
ei , ng , nd an
23 da nd ty a te et of om es 23 , .
, ng is id to be le if he nt on is nt to on
is a on of he rs om 23 to n :
p ( 23 , .
, zn ) = p ( zp ( 23 ) , .
, zp ( n ) ) .
an te ce of om es is ly le if ry te ce is
de is on em es at he nt on of an ly le ce of om es is as if a om er re wn om me on nd en he om es in on re nt nd ly ed , ed on
in da , we me at ds re ed by cs ( by ed al ns ) nd at se cs re ly le in a nt .
by de is em , he ob - ty of a ce of ds nd cs st re ve he rm :
p ( jq ) p ( nj zn )
is he om er of a al er cs .
we in he da on on ts in eq .
( 23 ) by ng ut he ic es nd ng q th a et
23 a us re of ms
he da el wn in re 23 is at re te an he wo - el ls en ed in he al al an re .
by ng er he en ic le z , er , we an nd da as a wo - el el .
in ar , et us rm he rd on p ( jq , b ) :
p ( jq , b ) = ( id : 23 )
p ( wj z , b ) p ( jq ) .
te at is is a om ty ce it ds on q
we ow ne he ng ve ss or a nt w : 23
se q ( id : 23 ) ir ( a ) .
or ch of he n ds wn :
( a ) se a rd wn om p ( jq , b ) .
is ss es he al on of a nt as a us re on :
p ( jq , b ) ja ) re he re ts .
, b ) =
re p ( jq , b ) re he re ts nd p ( q re 23 es is on of da .
it ts he on on p ( jq , b ) ch is ed om a ar ce of an da el .
te at is on on he ( v 23 ) - ex is ed th ly k + kv rs et ts a ry ng al re .
nt et on
re 23 : an le ty on am ns p ( jq , b ) er da or ee ds nd ur cs .
he le ed in he x - y ne is he 23 - d ex ng ll le al ns er ee ds .
ch of he es of he an - le ds to a ic on at ns ty ne to ne of he s; he nt of an ge es ty 23 to wo of he s; nd he id of he le is he rm on er ll ee ds .
he ur ts ed th an x re he ns of he al ns p ( wj z ) or ch of he ur cs , nd he ce wn on op of he ex is an le of a ty er he ( v 23 ) - ex ( al ns of ds ) en by da .
ip th er nt le ls
in is on we re da to er nt le ls or he am el , a re of ms , nd he si el .
re , we nt a ed ic ta - on of se ls ch ts ir ey es nd es .
23 am el
er he am el , he ds of ry nt re wn ly om a le
is is ed in he al el in re 3a .
ei , ng , nd an
( b ) re of ms
( c ) si / ct el
re 23 : al el on of nt ls of te ta .
23 re of ms
if we nt he am el th a te om ic le z ( re 3b ) , we in a re of ms el ( am et al . , 23 ) .
er is re el , ch nt is en - ed by st ng a ic z nd en ng n ds ly om he al al p ( wj z ) .
he ty of a nt is :
p ( w ) = ( id : 23 )
en ed om a us , he rd ns an be ed as ns of cs er he on at ch nt ts ly ne ic .
as he al ts in on 23 te , is on is en oo ng to ly el a ge on of in st , he da el ws ts to it le cs to nt es .
is is ed at a st of st ne al er : re re k 23 rs ed th p ( z ) in he re of ms , us he k rs ed th p ( q
ja ) in da .
23 ic nt ic ng
ic nt ic ng ( si ) is er ly ed nt el ( nn , 23 ) .
he si el , ed in re 3c , ts at a nt el d nd a rd wn re
nt et on
ly nt en an ed ic z :
p ( d , wn ) = p ( d ) ( id : 23 )
p ( nj z ) p ( zj d ) .
he si el ts to ax he ng on de in he re of ms el at ch nt is ed om ly ne ic .
in a se , it es re he ty at a nt ay in le cs ce p ( zj d ) es as he re ts of he cs or a ar nt d .
er , it is nt to te at d is a my ex to he st of ts in he ng et .
us , d is a al om le th as ny le es as re re ng ts nd he el ns he ic es p ( zj d ) ly or se ts on ch it is ed .
or is on , si is ot a ll - ed ve el of s; re is no al ay to se it to gn ty to a ly en nt .
a er ty th si , ch so ms om he se of a on ed by in - ng ts , is at he er of rs ch st be ed ws ly th he er of ng ts .
he rs or a k - ic si el re k al ri - ns of ze v nd m es er he k en cs .
is es kv + km rs nd re ar th in m .
he ar th in rs ts at he el is ne to ng nd , ly , ng is ed a us em ( ee on 23 ) .
in ac - ce , a ng ic is ed to th he rs of he el or le ic - ve ce .
it as en wn , er , at ng an ur en en ng is ed ( ul et al . , 23 ) .
da es th of se ms by ng he ic re ts as a k - er en om le er an a ge et of al rs ch re ly ed to he ng et .
as ed in on 23 , da is a ll - ed ve el nd es ly to ew ts .
re , he k + kv rs in a k - ic da el do ot ow th he ze of he ng us .
we ll ee in on 23 at da es ot er om he me ng es as si .
23 a ic on
a od ay of ng he es en da nd he er nt ic ls is by ng he ry of he nt ce , nd ng ow a nt is ed in at ry er ch el .
ll ur of he ls ed am , re of ms , si , nd da te in he ce of ns er ds .
ch ch on an be ed as a nt on he ( v 23 ) - ex , ch we ll he rd ex .
he am el ds a le nt on he rd ex nd ts at ll ds in he us me om he ng on .
he nt le ls er k ts on he rd ex nd rm a ub - ex ed on se ts , ch we ll he ic ex .
te at ny nt on he ic ex is so a nt on he rd ex .
he nt nt le ls se he ic ex in nt ys to te a nt .
( id : 23 ) he re of ms el ts at or ch nt , ne of he k ts on he rd ex ( at is , ne of he rs of he ic ex ) is en ly nd ll he ds of he nt re wn om he on ng to at nt .
ei , ng , nd an
re 23 : he ic ex or ee cs ed in he rd ex or ee ds .
he rs of he rd ex nd to he ee ns re ch rd ( re - ly ) as ty ne .
he ee ts of he ic ex nd to ee nt ns er ds .
he re of ms es ch nt at ne of he rs of he ic ex .
he si el es an al on on he ic ex ed by x .
da es a th on on he ic ex ed by he ur es .
( id : 23 ) he si el ts at ch rd of a ng nt es om a ly en ic .
he cs re es wn om a nt - ic on er cs , i . e . , a nt on he ic ex .
re is ne ch on or ch t; he et of ng ts us es an al on on he ic ex .
( id : 23 ) da ts at ch rd of th he ed nd en ts is ed by a ly en ic ch is wn om a on th a ly en er .
is er is ed ce er nt om a th on on he ic ex .
se es re ed in re 23
ce nd er on
we ve ed he on nd da nd ed ts al es er er nt ic ls .
in is on , we rn ur on to es or ce nd er on er da .
nt et on
re 23 : ( ft ) al el on of da .
( ht ) al el on
of he al on ed to te he or in da .
he ey al em at we ed to ve in er to se da is at of ng he or on of he en es en a nt :
, b ) = p ( q , z , ja
i g ( a
ly , is on is le to te in al .
ed , to ze he ri - on we ze er he en es nd te eq .
( 23 ) in ms of he el rs :
, b ) =
a on ch is le ue to he ng en q nd b in he on er nt cs ( ey , 23 ) .
ey ws at is on is an on er a ar on to he et on ch an be ed th al ic ns .
it as en ed in a an xt or ed te ta to nt he or on q ch , in at ng , is a om er ( ey et al . , 23 ) .
i j ) w j
gh he or on is le or ct ce , a de ty of xi - te ce ms an be ed or da , ng ce on , al on , nd ov in te lo ( an , 23 ) .
in is on we be a le ty - ed al hm or ce in da , nd ss me of he es in
23 al ce
he ic ea of ty - ed al ce is to ke se of ns ty to ob - in an le er nd on he og od ( an et al . , 23 ) .
ly , ne rs a ly of er ds , ed by a et of al rs .
he al rs re en by an on re at ts to nd he st le er nd .
a le ay to in a le ly of er ds is to er le ns of he al al el in ch me of he es nd es re ed .
er in ar he da el wn in re 23 ( ft ) .
he ic ng en q nd b
ei , ng , nd an
es ue to he es en q , z , nd w .
by ng se es nd he w es , nd ow - ng he ng ed al el th ee al rs , we in a ly of ns on he nt es .
is ly is ed by he ng al
q ( q , jg , f ) = q ( q
re he et er g nd he al rs ( f 23 , .
, f n ) re he ee al
ng ed a ed ly of ty ns , he xt ep is to et up an on em at es he es of he al rs g nd f .
as we ow in ix a , he um of ng a ht er nd on he og od es ly to he ng on em :
( g ( id : 23 ) , f ( id : 23 ) ) = in ( g , f )
d ( q ( q , jg , f ) k p ( q , jw , a
us he ng es of he al rs re nd by ng he ck - er ( kl ) ce en he al on nd he ue or p ( q , jw , a is on an be ed ia an ve ed - nt od .
in ar , we ow in ix a . 23 at by ng he es of he kl ce nd ng em al to ro , we in he ng ir of te ns :
i + ( id : 23 ) n
as we ow in ix a . 23 , he on in he al te an be ed as ws :
i ) jg ) = y
is he st ve of he gg
on ch is le ia or ma -
ns ( tz nd un , 23 ) .
( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) ve an ng ve on .
he et te is a te - or et en ed ns en er he al on , e ( jf n ) .
he al te is in to ng es em , p ( nj wn ) ( id : 23 ) p ( nj zn ) p ( zn ) , re p ( zn ) is ed by he al of he ed ue of ts hm er he al ri -
it is nt to te at he al on is ly a al on , ng as a on of w .
is rs se he on em in eq .
( 23 ) is ed or ed w , nd us ds ng rs ( g ( id : 23 ) , f ( id : 23 ) ) at re a on of w .
we an te he ng al on as q ( q , jg ( id : 23 ) ( w ) , f ( id : 23 ) ( w ) ) , re we ve de he ce on w it .
us he al on an be ed as an on to he or on p ( q , jw , a in he ge of xt , he ng rs ( g ( id : 23 ) ( w ) , f ( id : 23 ) ( w ) ) re nt - ic .
in ar , we ew he et rs g ( id : 23 ) ( w ) as ng a on of a nt in he ic ex .
nt et on
ze f 23
ni : = 23 / k or ll i nd n i : = a i + n / k or ll i
or n = 23 to n
or i = 23 to k g 23 : = a + ( id : 23 ) n
to um to 23
re 23 : a al ce hm or da .
we ze he al ce re in re 23 , th te ng ts or g nd f n .
om he de it is ar at ch on of al ce or da es o ( ( n + 23 ) k ) ns .
ly , we nd at he er of ns ed or a le nt is on he er of he er of ds in he nt .
is ds a al er of ns ly on he er of 3k .
23 er on
in is on we nt an al es od or er on in he da el ( ee on 23 or a er an ch ) .
in ar , en a us of ts d = 23 , 23 , .
, mg , we sh to nd rs a at ze he ( al ) og od of he ta :
, b ) =
og p ( wd ja
as we ve ed ve , he ty p ( ja
, b ) ot be ed ly .
er , al ce es us th a le er nd on he og od , a nd ch we an ze th ct to a nd b .
we an us nd te al es es or he da el ia an ng al em re at es a er nd th ct to he al rs g nd f , nd en , or ed es of he al rs , es he er nd th ct to he el rs a nd b
we de a ed on of he al em hm or da in ix a . 23
he on ds he ng ve hm :
( e - ep ) or ch nt , nd he ng es of he al rs fg ( id : 23 )
d 23 dg .
is is ne as ed in he us on .
( m - ep ) ze he ng er nd on he og od th ct to he el rs a nd b .
is ds to ng um od es th ed nt cs or ch nt er he te or ch is ed in
ei , ng , nd an
re 23 : al el on of he ed da el .
se wo ps re ed il he er nd on he og od es .
in ix a . 23 , we ow at he m - ep te or he al al er b
an be en ut ly :
i j ( id : 23 )
we er ow at he m - ep te or et er a nt on - on od in ch he an is ed in ar me .
an be ed ng an
he ge ry ze at is ic of ny nt ra es us ms of ty .
a ew nt is ry ly to in ds at id ot ar in ny of he ts in a ng us .
um od es of he al rs gn ro ty to ch ds , nd us ro ty to ew ts .
he rd ch to ng th is em is to th he al rs , ng ve ty to ll ry ms er or ot ey re ed in he ng et ( ek , 23 ) .
ce ng is ly d; is ly ds he an of he or on er a rm et or on he al rs .
ly , in he re el ng , le ce ng is no er ed as a um a ri od ( gh it is en ed in e; cf .
am et al . , 23 ) .
in ct , by ng a et or on he al er we in an le or in he re el ng , or ch he me on at ne ns an le or in he ic da el .
ur ed on to is em is to ly ly al ce ds to he ed el at es et ng on he al er .
in he da ng , we in he ed al el wn in re 23
we at b as a k ( id : 23 ) v om ix ( ne ow or ch re nt ) , re we me at ch ow is ly wn om an le et on . 23 we ow nd ur er - ce es to at he b i as om es at re ed th a or on , 23
an le et is ly a et on th a le ar er h
he ty is he me
as a et ( eq .
23 ) re a
or ch nt .
nt et on
ed on he ta .
us we ve nd he al es re of on 23 nd er a er an ch to da .
we er a al ch to an ce at es a le on on
he om es b
, nd z ( as , 23 ) : q ( b 23 : k , 23 : m , q 23 : m jl , f , g ) =
qd ( q d , zd jf d , g d ) ,
re qd ( q , jf , g ) is he al on ed or da in eq .
as is ly ed , he ng al ce re in ds qs .
( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) as he te ns or he al rs f nd g , ly , as ll as an al te or he ew al er l :
i j = h +
ng se ns to ce ds an te or on on b
, nd z .
we re ow ft th he er h on he le et , as ll as he hy - om re .
ur ch to ng se rs is in ( te ) al we se al em to nd um od es of se rs ed on he al od .
se es re ed in ix a . 23
in is on , we de an ve le of he se of an da el on al ta .
ur ta re 23 , 23 ts om a et of he ec ap us ( an , 23 ) .
er ng a rd st of op ds , we ed he em hm ed in on 23 to nd he et nd al al rs or a 23 - ic da el .
he op ds om me of he ng al ns p ( wj z ) re ed in re 23 ( op ) .
as we ve ed , se ns em to re me of he ng cs in he us ( nd we ve ed em ng to se cs ) .
as we ed in on 23 , ne of he es of da er ed nt le od - ls is at it es ll - ed ce es or ly en ts .
ed , we an te ow da ks by ng ce on a ld - ut nt nd ng he ng al or rs .
re 23 ( om ) is a nt om he ec ap us ch as ot ed or er on .
ng he hm in on 23 , we ed he al or et rs g or he le nd al or al rs f n or ch rd in he
ll at he th or et er g
i is ly he th or et pa - i us he ed er of ds ch re ed by he th ic ( ee eq .
re , he or et rs ed om he or et rs te he ed er of ds ch re ed to ch ic or a ar nt .
or he le le in re 23 ( om ) , st of he g i .
ur cs , er , re i ( id : 23 ) 23 ) .
ng at he ng ns er ly er ( by is , we an g ds es he cs ch ed to rm is nt ( re 23 , op ) .
i re se to a
ei , ng , nd an
er ht es om ng he f n rs .
se ns te p ( jw ) nd nd to ak ds ne of he k le ic es .
in he le xt in re 23 , he ds re or ed ng to se es ( i . e . , he th or is ed if qn ( zi = 23 ) > 23 ) .
th is on , ne an fy ow he nt cs ed in he nt xt .
le ng he er of da , he or is so ts me of ts im - ns .
in ar , he ag - of - ds on ws ds at ld be ed by he me ic ( e . g . , am ph st on ) to be ed to al nt op - cs .
ng is on ld re me rm of on of he ic da l; in ar , we ht ax he ag - of - ds on by ng al ty or ty of rd es .
ns nd al ts
in is on , we ss ur al on of da in al em nt ng , nt on , nd ve ng .
in ll of he re ls , he ed te og od of he ta as al ax - ma at he ts re ll or me of he re ts re al to ch er .
to id se al ma , it is nt to ze he em hm ly .
in ur ts , we ze em by ng ch al al on th ve ts , uc - ng ir ve al th to wo ds , nd ng ss he le ry .
is is ly an on to he me ed in an nd la ( 23 ) .
23 nt ng
we ed a er of nt le ls , ng da , on wo xt ra to re he on ce of se ls .
he ts in he ra re ed as d; us , ur al is ty we sh to ve gh od on a ld - ut st et .
in ar , we ed he ty of a ld - ut st et to te he ls .
he ty , ed by on in ge ng , is ly ng in he od of he st ta , nd is ly nt to he se of he ic an er - rd od .
a er ty re es er on ce . 23 re ly , or a st et of m ts , he ty is :
ty ( st ) = xp
23 og p ( wd )
in ur ts , we ed a us of ic ts om he c .
ns ty ( av - ry , 23 ) ng 23 , 23 ts th 23 , 23 ue ms , nd a et of he ec ap us ng 23 , 23 re es th 23 , 23 ue ms .
in th es , we ld ut 3% of he ta or st es nd ed he ls on he ng 3% .
in ng he ta ,
te at we ly se ty as a re of it or ng ls .
he ls at we re re ll am ( ag - of - ds ) ls , as we ve ed in he re of st in he ma - on al xt .
we re ot ng to do ge ng in is an se at ld re us to ne am or er er - er ls .
we te in ng , er , at ns of da ld be ed at ve et - al er ms ad of ms .
we ve he on of ch ns to ge ng to re rk .
nt et on
de " ed ai "
ss et re
he am ph st on ll ve 23 on to ln er , li - an ra co . , ew rk ic nd rd ol .
ur rd lt at we ad a al ty to ke a rk on he re of he ng ts th se ts an ct ry it as nt as ur al as of rt in th , al ch , on nd he al es , st on nt ph a .
st id ay in ng he ts .
ln rs re ll be 23 , 23 or ts ew ng , ch ll se ng ts nd de ew ic es .
he an ra co .
nd ew rk ic ll ve 23 , 23 ch .
he rd ol , re ic nd he ng ts re ht , ll et 23 , 23
he st on , a ng er of he ln er ed te nd , ll ke ts al al 23 , 23
re 23 : an le le om he ap us .
ch or es a nt or om ch
he rd is ly ed .
ei , ng , nd an
ed xt .
ms ld in si
er of cs
ed xt .
ms ld in si
er of cs
re 23 : ty ts on he de ( op ) nd ap ( om ) ra or da , he am
el , re of ms , nd si .
nt et on
cs ( k ) ty ( lt .
xt . ) ty ( si )
le 23 : ng in he re of ms nd si ls or he ap us .
ar av -
or is ed in he de us ( ot ed ) .
we ed a rd st of 23 op ds om ch us .
om he ap ta , we er ed ds at ed ly ce .
we ed da th he am , re of ms , nd si ls ed in ec - on 23
we ed ll he en le ls ng em th ly he me ng ia , at he ge ge in ed og od is ss an 3% .
th he si el nd he re of ms er om us ng es , gh or nt ns .
is on is ed in le 23
in he re of ms el , ng is a lt of ed rs in he ng t; a on ar in he er - ed ng , re is el is wn as he ve es el ( ie , 23 ) .
is ds to a ly ic ng of he ng ts ( in he e - ep ) ch is ed to ne he rd es in ch re nt ( in he m - ep ) .
a ly en nt ay st t ne of he ng re ts , ut ll ly in at st ne rd ch id ot ur in he ng ts at re ed to at nt .
ch ds ll ve a ry ll ty , ch es he ty of he ew nt to de .
as k es , he ts of he ng us re ed to er ns nd us ce re ds th ll es .
in he re of ms , we an te ng gh he al an th - ng me ed in on 23 .
is es at ll ds ll ve me ty er ry re nt .
in he si se , he rd ng em is ed by he ct at ch nt is ed to it a nt on of cs .
er , si ly rs to he ng oc - ts nd a nt ng em es at is ue to he ty of he p ( jd ) er .
ne le ch to ng ty to a ly en nt is by ng er d :
p ( w ) = ( id : 23 )
p ( nj z ) p ( zj d ) p ( d ) .
ly , we re ng er he al on on he ic ex ( ee re 23 ) .
is od of ce , gh ly nd , es he el to rt .
he nt - ic ic on as me ts ch re se to ro or se cs at do ot ar in he nt .
us , in ds ll ve ry ll ty in he es of
ei , ng , nd an
ch re nt .
en ng he ty of a ew nt gh al - on , ly se ng ts ch it a ar on of cs ll te to he od .
or a en ng ts ic ns , ny rd ch as ll ty in ll he nt cs ll se he ty to de .
as k ts er , he ce at a ng nt ll it cs at er ll he ds in he ew nt es nd us he ty ws .
te at si es ot rt as ly ( th ct to k ) as he re of ms .
is ng em ly ms om he on at ch re nt it he me ic ns as re en in ne or re of he ng ts .
en is nt , we re ot ee to se he st ly ns of cs or he ew nt .
an ve ch is he ng - in ic ed by nn ( 23 ) , re ne es he p ( jd ) rs nd ts p ( ew ) .
te at is es he si el an ir ge by ng it to et k 23 rs to he st ta .
da rs om er of se ms .
as in si , ch nt an it a nt on of ng cs .
er , da an ly gn ty to a ew t; no cs re ed or a ew nt to be ed th a nt et of ic ns an re ed th ts in he ng us .
re 23 ts he ty or ch el on th ra or nt es of k .
he si el nd re of ms re ly ed or ng .
he nt le ls rm er an he le am el .
da ly ms er an he
23 nt on
in he xt on em , we sh to fy a nt to wo or re ly ex - ve es .
as in ny on em , we ay sh to er ve es or ve es .
in ar , by ng ne da le or ch ss , we in a ve el or on .
it is so of st to se da in he ve rk , nd is is ur us in is on .
a ng ct of he nt on em is he ce of es .
ng al ds as es ds a ch ut ry ge re et ( ms , 23 ) .
ne ay to ce is re et is to se an da el or ty on .
in ar , da es ny nt to a ed et of al - ed he or et rs g ( id : 23 ) ( w ) ed th he nt .
it is of st to ee ow ch ry on we se in ng he nt on to se rs .
we ed wo ry on ts ng he rs - 23 et
et ns 23 ts nd 23 , 23 ds .
in se ts , we ed he rs of an da el on ll he ts , ut ce to ir ue ss el .
we en ed a rt or ne ( vm ) on he ow - al ns ed by da nd ed is vm to an vm ed on ll he rd es .
ng he ht re ge ( ms , 23 ) , we ed an vm ed on ll he rd es th se ed on es ed by a 23 - ic da el .
te at we ce he re ce by 23 nt in is se .
nt et on
on of ta ed or ng
on of ta ed or ng
re 23 : on ts on wo ry on ms om he rs - 23 et or nt ns of ng ta .
ph ( a ) is rn vs .
ot rn .
ph ( b ) is in vs .
ot in .
ld in si ed xt .
ms
er of cs
re 23 : ts or ve ng on he ie ta .
re 23 ws ur ts .
we ee at re is le on in on ce in ng he da - ed s; ed , in st ll es he ce is ed th he da es .
gh se ts ed er on , ey st at he ic - ed on ed by da ay be ul as a st ng hm or re on in
ei , ng , nd an
23 ve ng
ur al nt es he ie ve ng ta .
in is ta et , a on of rs es ir ed ie es .
a er nd he es en re us to a nt nd he ds in he nt ( ly ) .
he ve ng sk is as ws .
we in a el on a ly ed et of rs .
en , or ch ed er , we re wn ll ut ne of he es ed by at er nd re ed to ct at he ld - ut ie is .
he nt ms re ed ng to he od ey gn to he ld - ut ie .
re ly , ne he ve ty on m st rs to be :
ve - ty ( st ) = xp
23 og p ( wd , nd
we ed he ie et to rs at ly ed at st 23 es ( a ve ng is at st ur ut of ve rs ) .
we ed is et of rs to 23 ng rs nd 23
er he re of ms el , he ty of a ie en a et of ed es
is ed om he or on er cs :
p ( bs ) = ( id : 23 )
in he si el , he ty of a ld - ut ie is en by he me on pt at p ( bs ) is ed by ng in he ly en es .
ly , in he da el , he ty of a ld - ut ie is en by ng er he or et :
p ( jz ) p ( jq ) p ( q bs ) dq ,
re p ( q bs ) is en by he al ce od ed in on 23 .
te at is ty is nt to te .
we an ge he um nd al gn , nd te a ar on of k et ns .
th a ry of 23 es , we nd he ve es ed in re 23
in , he re of ms el nd si re ed or ng , ut he st ve es re ed by he da el .
we ve ed nt et on , a le ve ic el or ec - ns of te ta .
da is ed on a le ty on or he ds nd cs in a t; it is re ed by a rd on of de is re - on em .
we an ew da as a ty on ue , in he it of si , ut th er ng ve ic cs at ke se or he pe of ta at it ls .
ct ce is le or da , ut ny of a ge te of te ce go - ms an be ed or ce nd er on in he da rk .
we ve ed a le ty - ed al ch or ce , ng at it ds a st
nt et on
hm ng in le ve ce in ms of st et od .
er es at ht be ed de ce on , er - er al ch - es , nd te lo ds .
in ar , nk nd en ( 23 ) ve ed a al gy or ng ow - er al er ds to er - er ia - al ds .
it is so le to ve er cy by ng th he nt of ng a nd , nd ed ka nd ty ( 23 ) ve wn at ed al cy an be ed or he da el ia a er - er al ue wn as ex - on on .
ly , hs nd rs ( 23 ) ve ed a ov in te lo hm or da .
da is a le el , nd gh we ew it as a or to ds ch as si nd si in he ng of ty on or nt ns nd er te or - ra , it is so ed to be ve of he ay in ch ic ls an be ed up to de ul al ry in ns ng le ls of re .
in - ed , he al es of ve ls ch as da de ir ty nd ir ty .
as a ic le , da an be ly ed in a re ex el a ty at is ot ed by si .
in nt rk we ve ed rs of da es to el ps en es nd ir ng ve ns ( ei nd an , 23 ) .
er , re re us le ns of da .
or le , da is ly ed to us ta or er on - al ta .
as is he se or er re ls , ng te re ls nd en ov ls , he on ty p ( nj zn ) es ly a od ue to he ce es or da , nd er ds re ly ed in ts ce .
in ar , it is rd to op a us nt of da in ch an es re ed in ce of ls .
er le on of da es om ng es of et ns in he ce of he le et of da .
is ws a er re in he nt ic ce nd in ar ws a rm of nt ng at is nt om he ng at is ed ia ed cs .
ly , a ty of ns of da an be ed in ch he ns on he ic es re ed .
or le , we ld ge he cs in a me es , ly ng he ll ty on to ne of al ty .
we ld so er ly le ls in ch we on on us s; us , or le , he ic on ld be ed on es ch as ph or ce , ng a re ul xt el at es se of on ed om a er .
is rk as ed by he al ce on ( sf nt is - 23 ) nd he ry ch am of he nt of se ( ri 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 ) .
ew y .
ng nd id m .
ei re ly ed by ps om he ft
