ent ork in sed ure ing and eep ing has own hat be - ing ble to ain rge els can lly ove nce .
in his per , we der the lem of ing a eep ork ith ons of ers ing ens of nds of cpu res .
we ave ped a are ork led ief hat can ize ing ers ith nds of nes to ain rge els .
hin his ork , we ave ped two hms for rge - ale ted ing : ( i ) our sgd , an ous tic ent ent ure ing a rge ber of del cas , and ( ii ) ter , a ork hat rts a ety of ted tch ion res , ing a ted ion of l - fgs .
our sgd and ter l - fgs oth ase the ale and eed of eep ork ain - ing .
we ave lly sed our tem to ain a eep ork 23x ger han sly ted in the ure , and ves ate - of - the - art nce on net , a ual ect ion ask ith 123 ion ges and 23k ate - ies .
we how hat ese ame ues lly ate the ing of a ore tly - zed eep ork for a ial ech ion ser - ice .
ugh we cus on and ort nce of ese ods as ied to ing rge ral rks , the ing hms are ble to any ent - sed ine ing thm .
eep ing and sed ure ing ave own eat ise in any cal ap - ons .
ate - of - the - art nce has een ted in ral ins , ing rom ech ion ( 123 , 123 ) , ual ect ion ( 123 , 123 ) , to ext ing ( 123 , 123 ) .
it has lso een ved hat ing the ale of eep ing , ith ect to the ber of ing les , the ber of del ers , or oth , can lly ove ate ion acy ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ese lts ave led to a rge of est in ing up the ing and nce hms sed for ese els ( 123 ) and in ing ble ion res ( 123 , 123 ) .
the use of pus ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) is a ant nce in ent ars hat kes the ing of tly zed eep rks cal .
a own ion of the gpu ach is hat the ing eed - up is all hen the del oes not t in gpu ory ( lly ess han 123 tes ) .
to use a gpu ely , ers ten uce the ize of the ata or ers so hat cpu - to - gpu ers are not a ant eck .
ile ata and ter ion ork ell for all ems ( e . g .
tic ing for ech ion ) , hey are ess ive for ems ith a rge ber of les and ons ( e . g . , igh - ion ges ) .
in his per , we ibe an ive ach : ing rge - ale ers of nes to ute ing and nce in eep rks .
we ave ped a are ork led tbe - ief hat les del ism hin a ine ( via ing ) and oss nes ( via
age ing ) , ith the ils of ism , ion and ion ged by the ork .
in ion to ing del ism , the ief ork lso rts ata ism , ere ple cas of a del are sed to ize a gle ive .
hin his ork , we ave ned and ted two vel ods for rge - ale ted ing : ( i ) our sgd , an ous tic ent ent ure ich ver - ges ive ing tes and rts a rge ber of del cas , and ( ii ) ter l - fgs , a ted ion of l - fgs hat ses oth ata and del ism . 123 oth our sgd and ter l - fgs joy ant eed ins red to ore ven - nal ons of sgd and l - fgs .
our nts eal ral ing lts out rge - ale vex ion .
tly , ous sgd , ely ied to vex ems , rks ery ell for ing eep net - rks , rly hen ned ith rad ( 123 ) ive ing tes .
dly , we how hat ven ent ces , l - fgs is ive ith or ter han any nts of sgd .
ith ard to cic ons in eep ing , we ort two ain ngs : hat our dis - ted ion ach can oth tly ate the ing of tly zed els , and hat it can lso ain els hat are ger han uld be ted ise .
to ate the rst int , we how hat we can use a ter of nes to ain a tly zed ech del to the ame ion acy in ess han 123 / 3th the ime red on a gpu .
to ate the ond int , we ned a rge ral ork of ore han 123 ion ers and sed his ork to lly ove on ate - of - the - art nce on the net set , one of the est ets in ter ion .
123 ous ork
in ent ars ial and mic ine ing ata ets ave own at an ece - ted ace .
in nse , a eat any ors ave red ing up ine ing lgo - hms ugh ion and ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
uch of his rch has sed on ear , vex els , ere ted ent ion is the ral rst tep .
hin his rea , ome ups ave xed ion nts , ing yed adi - ent tes for vex ems ( 123 , 123 ) .
in lel , her ups ing on ems ith rse nts ( ems ere nly a iny ion of the tes of the ent tor are non - ero for any ven ing ple ) ave red ock - ess ous tic ent ent on red - ory res ( i . e .
gle nes ) ( 123 , 123 ) .
we are ted in an ach hat res the est of oth lds , ing the use of a ter of nes sly ing nts , but out ing hat the lem be her vex or rse .
in the ext of eep ing , ost ork has sed on ing ely all els on a gle ine ( e . g . , ano ( 123 ) ) .
ons for ing up eep ing ude the use of a arm of pus to ain a ion of any all els and tly ing eir ons ( 123 ) , or ing ard eep rks to ake hem tly ore ble ( 123 ) .
our cus is ing eep ing ues in the ion of ing ery rge els , ose ith a few ion ers , but out ing ons on the orm of the del .
in ial ses ere one yer tes ion , ome ors ave red ing ion in hat one yer and ing ion in the ing ers ( 123 ) .
but in the ral ase ere any ers of the del are lly ive , ull del ism in a rit lar to ( 123 ) is red .
to be ful , ver , we eve hat del ism ust be ned ith ver ted ion ues hat age ata ism .
we red a ber of ing rge - ale nal ols for ion to our rob - lem , uce ( 123 ) and lab ( 123 ) ing ble les .
we ded hat pre - uce , ned for lel ata ing , was ill - ted for the ive ons ent in eep ork ng; eas lab , ned for ral ( red ) aph ons , uld not oit ing ies ble in the red phs lly und in eep
3we ted l - fgs hin the ter ork , but the ral ach is lso ble for
a ety of her tch ion ods .
ure 123 : an ple of del ism in ief .
a ve yer eep ral ork ith cal ity is own ere , ned oss our nes ( lue les ) .
nly ose des ith ges hat oss ion ies ( ick nes ) ill eed to ave eir ate ted een nes .
ven in ses ere a ode has ple ges ing a ion ary , its ate is nly ent to the ine on the her ide of hat ary nce .
hin ach ion , ion for ual des ill the zed oss all ble cpu res .
123 del ism
to ate the ing of ery rge eep rks , we ave ped a are ork , ief , hat rts ted ion in ral rks and red cal els .
the ser nes the ion hat kes ace at ach ode in ach yer of the del , and the ges hat uld be sed ing the ard and ard ses of ion . 123 for rge els , the ser may ion the del oss ral nes ( ure 123 ) , so hat pon - ity for the ion for ent des is ned to ent nes .
the ork lly zes ion in ach ine ing all ble res , and ges com - ion , ion and ata fer een nes ing oth ing and nce .
the nce ets of ing a eep ork oss ple nes nds on the ity ure and nal eds of the del .
els ith a rge ber of ram - ers or igh nal nds lly net rom ess to ore pus and ory , up to the int ere ion sts ate .
we ave lly run rge els ith up to 123 ons in the ief ork ith ant ups , ile ore tly zed els how ent ups for up to 123 or 123 ons .
( see ion 123 , der the ing del ism rks , for tal lts . ) sly , els ith cal ity ruc - res end to be ore ble to ive ion han lly - ted res , ven eir wer ion nts .
the cal use of ess - han - eal ups is nce in ing mes oss the ent nes , ing to any nes ing for the gle est ine to ish a ven ase of ion .
ess , for our est els , we can tly use 123 nes ere ach ine ves an age cpu ion of 123 res , for a tal of 123 cpu res ing a gle rge ral ork .
hen ned ith the ted ion hms bed in the ext ion , ich ize ple cas of the ire ral ork , it is ble to use ens of nds of cpu res for ing a gle del , ing to ant ons in all ing mes .
123 ted ion hms
ing ion hin the ief ork ows us to ate and run ral rks bly ger han ave een sly ted .
but in der to ain uch rge els in a ble unt of ime , we eed to ize ion not nly hin a gle
3in the ase of a ral ork ard and ard ght lly ell be led ard and
rop , ile for a den kov del , hey ght be ore iar as ard and ard .
ine ine ine ine 123 ure 123 : eft : our sgd .
del cas sly tch ers w and ush gra - nts w to the ter ver .
ght : ter l - fgs .
a gle tor nds all ges to cas and the ter ver to ate tch ion .
nce of the del , but to ute ing oss ple del ces .
in his ion we ibe his ond vel of ism , ere we loy a set of ief del ces , or cas , to sly lve a gle ion lem .
we ent a son of two rge - ale ted ion res : our sgd , an ine hod , and ter l - fgs , a tch hod .
oth ods age the ept of a zed ded ter ver , ich del cas use to are eir ers .
oth ods ake age of the ted ion ief ows hin ach ual ica .
but ost tly , oth ods are ned to ate nce in the ing eed of ent del cas , and ven the ale ure of del cas ich may be ken ine or ted at dom .
in a nse , ese two ion hms ent an ent ion of ata ism .
oth hes low us to sly ess nct ing les in ach of the any del cas , and lly ine eir lts to ize our ive ion .
123 our sgd
tic ent ent ( sgd ) is aps the ost nly sed ion ure for ing eep ral rks ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ely , the nal ion of sgd is tly ial , ing it cal to ply to ery rge ata ets ere the ime red to ove ugh the ata in an ely ial ion is ive .
to ply sgd to rge ata ets , we uce our sgd , a ant of ous has - tic ent ent hat ses ple cas of a gle ief del .
the sic ach is as ows : we ide the ing ata nto a ber of ets and run a opy of the del on ach of ese ets .
the els ate tes ugh a zed ter ver , ich eps the ent ate of all ers for the del , ded oss any nes ( e . g . , if we ave 123 ter ver rds , ach ard is ble for ing and ing tes to 123 / 3th of the del ers ) ( ure 123 ) .
his ach is ous in two nct as - cts : the del cas run tly of ach her , and the ter ver rds lso run tly of one her .
in the est ion , ore ing ach ini - tch , a del ica sks the pa - ter ver ice for an ted opy of its del ers .
use ief els are ves ned oss ple nes , ach ine eds to ate ith ust the set of ter ver rds hat old the del ers ant to its ion .
ter ing an ted opy of its ers , the ief del ica ses a ini - tch of ata to ute a ter ent , and nds the ent to the ter ver , ich hen ies the ent to the ent lue of the del ers .
it is ble to uce the ion ead of our sgd by ing ach del ica to est ted ers nly ery nf tch eps and end ted ent ues nly ery ush eps ( ere nf tch ght not be ual to ush ) .
in act , the ess of ing
ter dsw = w - ter tor ( all ges ) ers , ing nts , and ing ing ata can be ied out in ree nly kly zed ads ( see the dix for ode ) .
in the nts ted low we xed nf tch = ush = 123 for ity and ase of son to nal sgd .
our sgd is ore ust to nes res han ard ( ous ) sgd .
for syn - ous sgd , if one ine ils , the ire ing ess is ed; eas for ous sgd , if one ine in a del ica ils , the her del cas nue ing eir ing ata and ing the del ers via the ter ers .
on the her and , the ple rms of ous ing in our sgd uce a eat eal of nal ity in the ion ure .
ost sly , a del ica is ost nly ing its nts sed on a set of ers hat are tly out of ate , in hat ome her del ica ill ely ave ted the ers on the ter ver in the ime .
but ere are ral her ces of ity ond his : use the ter ver rds act tly , ere is no tee hat at any ven ent the ers on ach ard of the ter ver ave one the ame ber of tes , or hat the tes ere ied in the ame der .
ver , use the del cas are ted to tch ers and ush nts in ate ads , ere may be nal tle ies in the mps of ers .
ere is tle cal ing for the ety of ese ons for vex ems , but in ice we und ing ncy nts to be bly ive .
one que hat we ave und to tly ase the ess of our sgd is the use of the rad ( 123 ) ive ing ate ure .
her han ing a gle xed ing ate on the ter ver ( in ure 123 ) , rad ses a ate ive ing ate for ach ter .
let i , k be the ing ate of the i - th ter at ion k and wi , k its ent , hen we set : i , k = / 123
use ese ing tes are ted nly rom the med red nts of ach ter , rad is ily ted lly hin ach ter ver ard .
the lue of , the ant ing tor for all ing tes , is lly ger ( aps by an der of ude ) han the est xed ing ate sed out rad .
the use of rad nds the mum ber of del cas hat can ely ork sly , and ned ith a ice of ing del ing ith nly a gle del ica ore ing the her cas , it has lly ted ity rns in ing eep rks ing our sgd ( see lts in ion 123 ) .
123 ter l - fgs
tch ods ave een own to ork ell in ing all eep rks ( 123 ) .
to ply ese ods to rge els and rge ets , we uce the ter tch ion ame - ork and uss an ion of l - fgs ing his ork .
a key dea in ter is ted ter age and ion .
the ore of the pti - ion thm ( e . g l - fgs ) des in a tor ess ( ure 123 ) , ich oes not ave ect ess to the del ers .
ead , the tor ues nds awn rom a all set of ons ( e . g . , dot uct , ing , ent - ise ion , ion ) hat can be med by ach ter ver ard tly , ith the lts ing red lly on the ame ard .
nal ion , e . g the ory che for l - fgs , is lso red on the ter ver ard on ich it was ted .
his ows ing rge els ( ons of ers ) out ing the ead of ing all the ers and nts to a gle ral ver .
( see the dix for ode . ) in cal zed ons of l - fgs , ata is ted to any nes and ach ine is ble for ing the ent on a cic set of ata les .
the gra - nts are ent ack to a ral ver ( or ted via a ree ( 123 ) ) .
any uch ods ait for the est ine , and ore do not ale ell to rge red ers .
to unt for his lem , we loy the ing oad ing eme : the tor gns ach of the n del cas a all ion of ork , uch ler han 123 / nth of the tal ize of a tch , and gns cas new ons ver hey are ree .
ith his ach , ter del cas do ore ork han wer cas .
to her age low del cas at the end of a tch , the tor les ple ies of the ing ons and ses the ult rom ver del ica hes rst .
his eme is lar to the use of kup sks in the uce ork ( 123 ) .
ing of ata , ong ith ing ata ity by ing ial
ons of ata to the ame ker kes ata ess a non - sue .
in ast ith our sgd , ich res ely igh ncy , igh dth ter ion ith the ter ver , ter ers nly tch ers at the ing of ach tch ( hen hey ave een ted by the tor ) , and nly end the nts ery few ted por - ons ( to ect nst ica res and rts ) .
we ted our ion hms by ing hem to ing els for two ent eep ing ems : ect ion in ill ges and tic ing for ech ion .
the ech ion ask was to ify the ral ion ( or ame ) in a ort pet of dio as one of ral and tic tes .
we sed a eep ork ith ve ers : our den yer ith dal ons and 123 des ach , and a max put yer ith 123 des .
the put ion was 123 ive ing 123 ms mes of ech , ach ted by 123 log - rgy ues .
the ork was lly - ted yer - to - yer , for a tal of ely 123 ion del ers .
we ned on a ata set of 123 ion kly led les , and ted on a old out est set .
see ( 123 ) for lar eep ork ons and ing for ual ect ion we ned a ger ral ork ith lly - ted ive lds on the net ata set of 123 ion ges , ach of ich we led to 123 els ( 123 ) .
the ork had ree ges , ach sed of ing , ing and cal ast ion , ere ach ode in the ing yer was ted to a 123 tch in the yer low .
our ure ows any des to ect to the ame put tch , and we ran nts ing the ber of lly ted des rom 123 to 123
the put yer ted of 123 and one - vs - all tic ier des , one for ach of the net ect ies .
see ( 123 ) for lar eep ork ons and ing res .
del ism rks : to ore the ing ior of ief del ism ( ion 123 ) , we red the ean ime to ess a gle ini - tch for ple sgd ing as a ion of the ber of ons ( nes ) sed in a gle del nce .
in ure 123 we ify the act of ing oss n nes by ing the age ing eed - up : the tio of the ime ken ing nly a gle ine to the ime ken ing n .
ups for nce eps in ese els are lar and are not own ere .
the ely zed ech del uns est on 123 nes , ing 123 ter han ing a gle ine .
( els ere red to use no ore han 123 res per ine . ) ing
ure 123 : ing eed - up for our ent eep rks as a ion of nes ted to a gle ief del nce .
els ith ore ers net ore rom the use of nal nes han do els ith wer ers .
nes per del ing eed ( cid : 123 ) up ech : 23m ges : 23m ges : 23m ges : 23b ers ure 123 : eft : ing acy ( on a ion of the ing set ) for ent ion eth - ods .
ght : ion acy on the old out est set as a ion of ing ime .
our and ter nts zed ing the ame 123 our art of ple sgd .
the del on ore han 123 nes lly ows ing , as ork ead rts to ate in the lly - ted ork ure and ere is ess ork for ach ine to orm ith in ast , the uch ger , lly - ted age els can net rom ing any ore nes per del ica .
the est del , ith 123 ion ers ets the ost , ing a dup of ore han 123 ing 123 nes .
for ese rge els ing ore nes ues to ase eed , but ith ing rns .
ion hod ons : to ate the sed ted ion oce - res , we ran the ech del bed ove in a ety of ons .
we der two ine ion res : ing a ief del ( on 123 ons ) ing nal ( gle ica ) sgd , and ing the cal del on a gpu ing uda ( 123 ) .
the ree dis - ted ion ods we are to ese ine ods are : our sgd ith a xed ing ate , our sgd ith rad ing tes , and ter l - fgs .
ure 123 ows ion nce as a ion of ing ime for ach of ese ods on oth the ing and est ets .
our oal is to ain the mum est set acy in the mum unt of ing ime , ess of rce nts .
nal gle ica sgd ( ack ves ) is the est to ain .
our sgd ith 123 del cas ( lue ves ) ows a ant ent .
our sgd ith 123 cas lus rad ( nge rve ) is tly ter .
ter l - fgs ing 123 del cas ( een ves ) is bly ter yet ain .
the est , ver , is our sgd lus rad ith 123 del cas ( red ves ) .
ven ess to ent cpu ses , oth ter l - fgs and our sgd ith rad can ain els lly ter han a igh nce gpu .
ugh we did not nne the ove nts to a xed rce get , it is ing to der how the ous ods ade off rce ion for nce .
we yze his by ily ing a xed est set acy ( 23% ) , and ing the ime ach hod ook to ach hat acy as a ion of nes and zed cpu res , ure 123
one of the our nts on ach ces nds to a ing ion own in ure 123 , the her ree nts are ive ons .
in his lot , nts ser to the gin are ble in hat hey ake ess ime ile ing wer re - ces .
in his ard our sgd ing rad ars to be the est ade - off : for any xed get of nes or res , our sgd ith rad kes ess ime to ach the acy get han her our sgd ith a xed ing ate or ter l - fgs .
for any ted ing ime to ach the acy get , our sgd ith rad sed few ces han ter l - fgs , and in any ses our sgd ith a xed ing ate uld not ven ach the get hin the ine .
the ter l - fgs tem oes how ise in rms
ime ( urs ) age ame acy ( % ) acy on ing set sgd ( 123 ) sgd ( 123 ) sgd ( 123 ) w / ter fgs ( 123 ) ime ( urs ) age ame acy ( % ) acy on est set sgd ( 123 ) gpu ( 123 ) sgd ( 123 ) sgd ( 123 ) w / sgd ( 123 ) w / ter fgs ( 123 ) ure 123 : ime to ach a xed acy ( 23% ) for ent ion ies as a ion of ber of the nes ( eft ) and res ( ght ) .
of its ing ith nal res , ing hat it may ely uce the est ing mes if sed ith an ely rge rce get ( e . g . , 23k res ) .
ion to net : the ous nts ate hat our ues can cel - ate the ing of ral rks ith ens of ons of ers .
ver , the ore sig - ant age of our ter - sed ach to ted ion is its ity to ale to els hat are uch ger han can be bly t on gle ine , let one a gle gpu .
as a rst tep ard ing the ies of ery rge ral rks , we sed our sgd to ain the 123 ion ter age del bed ove on the net ect ssi - ion ask .
as led in ( 123 ) , his ork ved a oss - ted ion acy of ver 23% , a ive ent ver 23% rom the est nce we are are of on the 23k ory net ion ask .
in his per we ced ief , a ork for lel ted ing of eep net - rks .
hin his ork , we red ral ive ted ion ies .
we und hat our sgd , a hly ous ant of sgd rks gly ell for ing vex eep ing els .
ter l - fgs , a ted ion of l - fgs , can be ive ith sgd , and its ore ent use of ork dth les it to ale to a ger ber of ent res for ing a gle del .
hat aid , the mbi - ion of our sgd ith the rad ive ing ate ure ges as the rly ant hod hen ing ith a nal get of 123 cpu res or ess .
rad was not lly ned to be sed ith ous sgd , and her hod is lly ied to vex ems .
it is ing , ore , hat hey ork so ell her , and on hly ear eep rks .
we ure hat rad lly zes ile ers in the ace of the rry of ous tes , and lly sts ing tes to the nds of ent ers in the eep ork .
our nts how hat our new rge - ale ing ods can use a ter of nes to ain ven tly zed eep rks tly ter han a gpu , and out the pus ion on the mum ize of the del .
to ate the lue of ing ble to ain ger els , we ave ned a del ith ver 123 ion ers to eve ter han ate - of - the - art nce on the net ect ion nge .
the ors uld ike to ank amy gio , tom ean , ohn chi , val zer , ick yen , ram ger , ian run , and ent cke for eir ble ice , ort , and nts .
