pr to mo ar a po to fo th un an of te , pr bo a pr mo of fu te an a la to re of th co .
pr ty as th th la sp is se me .
it is us to ch mo , su th co , an gu ex - ra of it co .
ho , wh th la sp is in is in ne of qu ev .
in th pa , we pr ne qu me fo me se me in in to .
we ba th me wi la - sc us st , sh th th ca as of th mo th ar un by pr me of mo qu ba on he - ou li .
su , to mo wh pe be on he - ou li ma in le se me to .
pr to mo ha be po to fo th un an of la do co ( 12 ) .
th mo po a se of la to , mu di ov wo , an as th ea do ca be de as a mi of th to .
wi al fo fa ap po in , we ca us to mo to di bo th to an an as of to to do fr a co of do .
( se fi 12 ) th mo as ar us in th se th , em , th le to go mo of do .
th al an le to se me de of th : to te to pl hi pr on wo th re co , an do ar re as ex of th co .
pe th in to is ef fo mo ve an fo en th th mo is ca th pr in ab th do .
mo , pr a hu - in de of th te ca be a go in it , as wh br or su a la co of do .
in th sp , mu of th li co di to mo pr ex of to an ex of do - to as to he un a mo me .
to al ca he us di ne co vi co ex ( 12 ) .
th pr of th to se , ei ex or im , as a qu ev of th la sp , bu th is no ex qu ev of th .
in , re em a va of me of mo t , su as pe or he - ou li .
su me ar us fo ev th pr mo , bu do no ad th mo ex go of to mo .
wo do wh at pr un .
( b ) do as to to
fi 12 : th la sp of a to mo co of to , wh ar di ov wo , an a di ov th to fo ea do .
on th le ar th to fr a ft to ld mo tr on ar fr th ne yo ti .
on th ri is a si de th di ov to as wi se do .
th li fr ea do ti sh th do po in th
in th pa , we pr a me fo me th in of a to mo .
we de tw hu ev ta to ex ev bo th qu of th to in by th mo an ho we th mo as to to do .
th rs , wo in , me ho se co th to in by a mo ar an te wh to co to na gr fo hu .
th se , to in , me ho we a to mo de of a do as a mi of to ag wi hu as of to wi a do .
we re th re of a la - sc hu st of th ta , va bo mo as an nu of to .
we sh th th ta ca as of to mo no me by ex me an wh ac be pr pe of ha le in la sp .
12 to mo an th ev
to mo po th ea do is ex as a mi of to .
th to pr ar dr on pe do , an th to ar sh ac th co .
in th pa we wi co to mo th ma di as ab th to pr .
pr la se in ( pl ) ( 12 ) ma no as ab th do to di , tr it as a di pa fo ea do .
la di al ( ld ) ( 12 ) an th co to mo ( ct ) ( 12 ) tr ea do to as as a mu ra va dr fr a sy di an lo no pr , re .
wh th mo ma di as , in al fo al of th to mo bu th sa ty of la sp : a co of to fo th co an a co of to pr fo ea of it do .
wh th co la sp ha ex fo ov tw de , it in re un .
pa no at to th la sp be th mo
al we fo on pr to mo , th el be in ea wi la se an ( ls ) ( 12 ) .
ls , th ba of pl pr fo , us li al to de - po a co in it co th .
be ls or in th ps co , ea ev fo on re hu pe or ju us ls : ma pe on st te , co se di , an ma in ab sy ( th re ar re in ( 12 ) ) .
in in re , wh ls is kn as la se in ( ls ) ( 12 ) , it is ab to ma qu to do , ma ex to ar of ex , an ev ge ac la gi a pa co ( 12 ) .
co , te , sy , se , si , ph , in , ma , lm , mo , th , pr , st , di , st , sa , st , pr , bu , ad , ma , co 12 12 12 th bo , ju do th mo le he as li to gr sh of ci , tr at th cl of a mo pe cr pu mu wh it mo is tr : a be de fo in is ' t si th bi in po be to di am th as sh ma li , gr li : a 12 - to l . e . d .
to si sc 12 12 12 th re to lo un th ho of th mo ha pe ev as mo ha mo fr ps in co sc wi th de of pl an ld .
mo ei us me ba on he - ou li ( 12 , 12 ) or an ex ta th is in of th to sp su as se de ( 12 ) or in re ( 12 ) .
th is tr ev fo mo en to ha se co to ( 12 ) .
fo mo th us he - ou li , wa et al .
( 12 ) pr a su of ev te .
th me bo to fr th la mo co to me ho we th in le fr a co ap to un do .
th me ge ea an al fo li - ba co of di mo or se of mo pa su as th nu of to .
ho , th ad co at a co : th me on me th pr of ob th in re of th mo is ig .
gr et al .
( 12 ) is an im ex to th tr of us ex ta or he - ou li .
th sh th th nu of to a wo ap in co wi ho ma di se it ha an re ma of th me us in th ps co ba on hu pe .
ho , th is st no a de an of th st of th la sp , as it do no ex th st of th to th .
we em th no me th in re of to mo is at od wi th pr an de .
mo to mo pa di qu as of th in to or si as th to ar se me , an pr us to fo mo ch du th de pr .
ha et al .
( 12 ) , fo ex , us la to de hi re to ex th in th sc li .
ev in pr en , to ar pr as th : re ( ht : / / re . in ) , a sc pu se en , di th to as wi do .
th im no th to ha se me fo us ha ev mo wo th at to au la to ( 12 ) .
ou go is to me th su of in to mo ac nu of to an mo
12 us hu ju to ex th to
al th ap to be a lo as th th la sp di by to mo is me an us , ev su as is di be di to is an un pr .
th is no go - st li of to to co ag fo ev co .
th , ev th la sp of to mo re us to ga ex da .
in th se we pr tw ta th cr a fo se wh hu ca ev th tw co of th la sp of a to mo .
th rs co is th ma of th to .
we de a ta to ev wh a to ha hu - id se co .
th ta is ca wo in , as su mu id a sp wo in in a to .
th se ta te wh th as be a do an a to ma se .
we ca th ta to in , as th su mu id a to th wa no as wi th do by th
12 wo in
to me th co of th to , we de th wo in ta th ta in ev th la sp pr in fi 12 ( a ) .
in th wo in ta , th su is pr wi si ra or wo .
th ta of th us is to nd th wo wh is ou of pl or do no be wi th ot , i . e . , th in .
fi 12 sh ho th ta is pr to us .
wh th se of wo mi th in ma se to , th th su sh ea id th in .
fo ex , mo pe re id ap as th in wo in th se ( do , ca , ho , ap , pi , co ) be th re wo , ( do , ca , ho , pi , co ) ma se to th ar al an .
fo th se ( ca , te , pl , ag , bl , za ) , wh la su co , id th in is di .
pe wi ty ch an in at ra , im a to wi po co .
in or to co a se to pr to th su , we rs se at ra a to fr th mo .
we th se th ve mo pr wo fr th to .
in ad to th wo , an in
fi 12 : sc of ou tw hu ta .
in th wo in ta ( le ) , su ar pr wi a se of wo an as to se th wo wh do no be wi th ot .
in th to in ta ( ri ) , us ar gi a do ti an th rs fe se of th do .
th us mu se wh of th fo gr of wo do no be .
wo is se at ra fr a po of wo wi lo pr in th cu to ( to re th po th th in co fr th sa se gr ) bu hi pr in so ot to ( to en th th in is no re ou du so to ra ) .
al si wo ar th sh an pr to th su .
12 to in
th to in ta te wh a to mo de of do in a mi of to ag wi hu ju of th do co .
th al fo ev of th la sp de by fi 12 ( b ) .
in th ta , su ar sh th ti an a sn fr a do .
al wi th do th ar pr wi fo to ( ea to is re by th ei hi - pr wo wi th to ) .
th of th to ar th hi pr to as to th do .
th re in to is ch ra fr th ot lo - pr to in th mo .
th su is in to ch th to wh do no be wi th do .
as be , if th to as to do we re an in , we wo ex th su wo se th to we ra ad as th to th di no be .
th fo of th ta pr a na wa to an th qu of do - to as fo by th to mo .
ea of th th mo we t ex as to we to ea do th ta de wh hu ma th sa as .
du to ti co , su do no se th en do th on se th ti an rs fe se .
wh th is le in th is av to th al , hu ar go at ex fr li da , an ou co ( en an ne ) ar st to pr an ov of th ar in th rs fe se .
th se of th ta is al me in si wh on mi be te to us to fo co ex .
if to ar us to nd re do , fo ex , us wi li be pr wi si vi of th do ( e . g .
ti an ab , as in re ) .
fo bo th wo in an to in ta , su we in to fo on th me of wo , no th sy us or or .
we al pr su wi th op of vi th co an af th su th ow re , to ma th ta mo en .
he th co an wa de by th mo wh ge th da , pr as if it we th re of an us .
at th sa ti , su we en to ba th re on th ow op , no to tr to ma ot su ( th mo ) se .
in sm ex , we ha fo th th ex in di no bi su re .
12 ex re
to pr da fo hu su to re , we t th di to mo on tw co .
in th se , we de ho we pr th co , t th mo , an cr th ta de in se 12
we th pr th re of th hu tr an co th to me tr us to ev to mo .
wo in in 12 mo an co
in th wo we st th to mo : pr la se in ( pl ) ( 12 ) , la di al ( ld ) ( 12 ) , an th co to mo ( ct ) ( 12 ) , wh ar al mi me mo ( 12 ) .
th nu of la to , k , is a fr pa in ea of th mo he we ex th wi k = 12 , 12 an 12
th re pa k , th to mu di fo to k; an d , th to mi pr fo do d ar in fr da .
th th mo di in ho th la pa ar in .
pl in pl , th to mi pr d ar a pa fo ea do .
th , pl is no a fu ge mo , an th nu of pa gr li wi th nu of do .
we t pl us th em al ( 12 ) bu re pl es of d us ps - co sm , = 12
ld ld is a fu ge mo of do wh th mi pr d ar tr as a ra va dr fr a di pr di .
be th di co of th po is in , we em va in ( 12 ) an se th sy di pr pa , , to 12
ct in ld , th co of d ar ne in ( i . e . , d is st ne ) .
ct al fo a ri co st be to pr by us a lo no pr ov th to mi pr d .
fo ea to , k , a re is dr fr a no di an ex .
th se of k no - ne nu ar th no to yi d .
he , we tr th ct us va in ( 12 ) .
we tr ea mo on tw co .
fo ea co , we ap a pa of sp ta ( 12 ) an re al to ta as pr no ( th wa fo th be of th hu su su in ea ex re to mu en kn ) .
st wo ( 12 ) an te oc in fe th ve do ar al re .
th tw co we us ar 12 ) a co of 12 ar fr th ne yo ti fr th ye 12 to 12 wi a vo si of 12 un ty an ar on mi to an 12 ) a sa of 12 ar fr wi ( ht : / / ww . wi . or ) wi a vo si of 12 un ty an th mi to .
12 ev us co ob me
th ar se me co us to ev to mo in th li ( 12 ) .
ma of th me ar pr me th is , th ca th mo ab to pr a te se of un do af ha le it pa fr a tr se .
in th wo , we se as 12 of th do in ea co as a te se an tr on th re 12 of do .
we th co pr ra an pr lo li .
to en co of ev ac di mo , we fo te et al . s ( 12 ) ap of th pr li p ( wd ) us p ( wd ) p ( wd ) , wh d is a po es of th po to pr fo do d .
fo pl d is th ma es fo ld an ct d is th me of th va po .
wi th in , we ca as wh wo th mo be wi be in th do an co it wi th do ac co .
gi do wd , we rs es d an th fo ev wo in th vo , we co z p ( w| ) p ( z| ) .
th we co th av ra fo th te th ac
p ( w| ) = ( ci : 12 )
ap in do wd ( we fo th co th lo ra is be ) .
th av wo li an av ra ac al do in ou te se ar sh in ta 12
th re ar co wi th va re in th li ( 12 , 12 ) ; in mo ca ct pe be , fo by ld .
12 an hu ev
th ta de in se 12 we of on am me tu ( ht : / / ww . mt . co ) , wh al wo ( ou po of pr su ) to pe sm jo fo a fe th a we in .
no sp tr or kn is ty ex of th wo .
am me tu ha be su us in th pa to de go - st da fo na la pr ( 12 ) an to la im ( 12 ) .
fo bo th wo in an to in
ta 12 : tw pr me : pr lo li / pr ra .
co wi va re in th li , ct ge pe th be , fo by ld , th pl .
th bo nu in th be pe in ea ro .
ne yo ti
- 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12
- 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12
- 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12 - 12 / 12
fi 12 : th mo pr ( eq 12 ) fo th th mo on tw co .
hi is be .
su , al ct ge ac a be pr li th th ot mo ( ta 12 ) , th to it in fa wo wh ev ag hu ju .
ta , we pr ea wo wi jo co te of th ta de in se 12
ea jo wa pe by 12 se wo , an wo we pa be $1 $1 pe jo .
wo in as de in se 12 , th wo in ta me ho we th in to ma hu co ( us mo pr , i . e . , ho we th in de by th su co to th in in on fo by th to mo ) .
k be th in of th in wo am th wo ge fr th kt to in by mo m .
fu le im k , s be th in se by su s on th se of wo ge fr th kt to in by mo m an le s de th nu of su .
we de mo pr by th fr of su ag wi th mo ,
k , s = m
fi 12 sh bo of th pr fo th th mo on th tw co .
in mo ca ld pe be .
al ct gi be pr re on he - ou li , it do no pe as we on hu ev .
th ma be be ct nd co be to an co wi to ar co fa th in fo on to mi be se fr an hi co to .
th pe of pl de wi la nu of to , su th ov ( 12 ) mi af in as we as pr po .
fi 12 ( le ) sh ex of to wi hi an lo mo pr fr th ny ti da t wi ld us 12 to .
in th ex wi hi pr , th to wo al co ex a pa th .
fo th lo pr ex , ta di no t in wi th ot po wo in th to , as 12 of su ch ta as th in .
th re be mo pr , mp k , an th mo es of th li of th in wo in fi 12 ( to ro ) is su .
th hi pr di no ha th be in in fa , th tr wa th op .
th su th as to be mo ne - gr in mo wi la nu of to , th ar le us fo hu .
th do
mo pr . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 to to to yo ti fi 12 : a hi of th mo pr on th ne yo ti co ( le ) an to lo od on th wi co ( ri ) ev fo th ft to ld mo .
on th le , ex to ar sh fo se bi th to in bi wi hi mo pr ev a mo co th .
on th ri , ex do ti ar sh fo se bi do wi hi to lo od ca be mo ea de as a mi of to .
fi 12 : a sc pl of mo pr ( to ro ) an to lo od ( bo ro ) vs .
pr lo li .
ea po is co by mo an si ac to th nu of to us to t th mo .
ea mo is ac by a re li .
in li do no in th ag be hu su an th mo fo ei ta ( as sh by th do - sl re li ) .
sl tr li in fi 12 im th th mo ar of tr im li fo th mo pr sh a ne co ( sp = 12 av ac al mo , co , an to ) wi th nu of se in wo of th wo di to th su ( 12 ) an a sl po co ( = 12 ) wi th av pa ji - co si of wo ( 12 ) .
to in in se 12 , we in th to in ta to me ho we a to mo as to to do .
we de th to lo od as a qu me of th ag be th mo an hu ju on th ta .
le m d de mo ms po es of th to pr ve as wi do d ( as de in se 12 ) .
d , s ( 12 .
k ) be th in to se by su s fo do d on mo fu , le jm m an le jm d , de th tr in , i . e . , th on ge by th mo .
we de th to lo od as th lo ra of th pr ma as to th tr in to th pr ma
12 wi en in wo we ig po wa ha by ta th ma ov al se of wo .
to ha wo in th sa sy ( e . g .
gh an ba ) , th si fu wa ca at 12 .
mo pr of to . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 lo od of do ! 12 ! 12 ! 12 ! 12 ! 12 ! 12 ! 12 . 12 qu ad wo ho lo li . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 yo ti . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 . 12 pr lo od of to fi 12 : th to lo od ( eq 12 ) fo th th mo on tw co .
hi is be .
al ct ge ac a be pr li th th ot mo ( ta 12 ) , th to it in fa wo wh ev ag hu ju .
d = ( ( ci : 12 )
s lo m
d , lo m
as to th in se by th su ,
d , th gr th co be th ju of th mo d is 12
th is ac wh th su ch
th hi th va of tl an th su .
th up bo on tl in wi a mi pr no hi th th tr in .
fi 12 sh bo of th to lo od fo th th mo .
as wi mo pr , ld an pl ge ou ct .
ag , th tr ru co to ct su pe on pr li .
a hi of th tl of in wi do is gi in fi 12 ( ri ) fo th ft - to ld mo .
do ab ve sp , un co , su as li ho , ha hi tl be it is ea fo bo hu an th mo to as th do to a pa to .
wh do ex mu di to , hu ju di fr th of th mo .
at th lo en of th sc is th ar bo wh to on di ar su as hi , sc , an co .
it is di fo ld to pi do sp th in th ar wh ma hu pe .
fi 12 ( bo ro ) sh th , as wi mo pr , in pr li do no im im to lo od sc .
wh th to lo od ar ne co ac al nu of to fo ld an pl , fo ct to lo od an pr li ar ne co , yi th su co th hi pr li do no le to im mo in .
we pr th rs va of th as co an re of to mo us hu ex .
fo th to mo , we de th tr me do no ca wh to ar co or no .
tr me ar , in , ne co wi th me of to qu de in th pa .
ou me en ne fo of mo se an su th pr de to mo sh th fo on ev th de on re - wo ta pe ra th op li - ba me .
in a mo qu ve , th wo va th us of to fo co ex an in re .
hu ap th se co of to an ca as th sa do wi a to th a to mo do .
an in po is th de of mo th ex se to op th me we de he ei by in hu ju in th mo - le fr or cr a co pr th si hu ju .
da m .
bl is su by on 12 - 12 , ns ca 12 an gr fr go an mi .
we wo al li to th da os fo hi he co .
