int .
lar col of doc are rea ava on - lin and wid acc by div com .
as a not exa , sch - arl art are inc pub in ele for , and his arc are bei sca and mad acc .
the not - for - pro org jst ( www . jst . org ) is cur one of the lea pro of jou to the sch - arl com .
the arc are cre by sca old jou and run an opt cha rec ove the pag .
jst pro the ori sca on - lin , and use the noi ver of the tex to sup key sea .
sin the dat are lar uns and com mil of art spa cen - tur of sch wor , aut ana is ess .
the dev of new too for bro , sea and all the pro use of suc arc is thu an imp tec cha , and pro new opp for
rec mar 123 rev apr 123
123 in par by nsf gra iis - 123 and iis - 123 , the dar cal pro and
a gra fro goo .
sup mat and cod are ava at htt : / / ims . org / aoa / sup key wor and phr .
hie mod , app pos inf , var met -
ods , tex ana .
ble and j .
laf
the sta ana of doc has a tra tha goe bac at lea to the ana of the fed pap by mos and wal ( 123 ) .
but doc mod tak on new dim wit mas mul - aut col suc as the lar arc tha now are bei mad acc by jst , goo and oth ent .
in thi pap we con top mod of suc col , by whi we mea lat var mod of doc tha exp the cor amo the wor and lat sem the .
top mod can ext sur int - pre and use str wit any exp und of the lan by com .
in thi pap we pre the cor top mod ( ctm ) , whi exp mod the cor bet the lat top in the col , and ena the con of top gra and doc bro tha all a use to nav the col in a top - gui man .
the mai app of thi mod tha we pre is an ana of the js - tor arc for the jou sci .
thi jou was fou in 123 by tho edi and con as one of the mos inu sci jou tod .
the var of mat in the jou , as wel as the lar num of art ran ove mor tha 123 yea , dem the nee for aut met , and the pot for sta top mod to pro an aid for nav the col .
the cor top mod bui on the ear lat dir all ( lda ) mod of ble , ng and jor ( 123 ) , whi is an ins of a gen fam of mix mem mod for dec dat int mul lat com .
lda ass tha the wor of eac doc ari fro a mix of top , whe eac top is a mul ove a xed wor voc .
the top are sha by all doc in the col , but the top pro var sto - cal acr doc , as the are ran dra fro a dir dis .
rec wor has use lda as a bui blo in mor sop top mod , suc as aut - doc mod ( 123 , 123 ) , abs - ref mod ( 123 ) syn - sem mod ( 123 ) and ima - cap mod ( 123 ) .
the sam kin of mod too hav als bee use in a var of non set , suc as ima pro - ing ( 123 , 123 ) , rec sys ( 123 ) , the mod of use pro ( 123 ) and the mod of net dat ( 123 ) .
sim mod wer ind dev for dis sur dat ( 123 , 123 ) and pop gen ( 123 ) .
in the par of the inf ret lit , lda is a bag of wor mod .
thi mea tha the wor of the doc are ass to be exc - abl wit the , and ble , ng and jor ( 123 ) mot lda fro thi ass wit de fin exc the .
as a con , mod lik lda rep doc as vec of wor cou in a ver hig dim spa , ign the ord in whi the wor app .
whi it is imp to ret the exa seq of wor for rea com , the lin sim exc ass is ess to efc alg for aut eli the bro sem the in a col .
the sta poi for our ana her is a per lim of top mod suc as lda : the fai to dir mod cor bet top .
in mos tex
a cor top mod of sci
cor , it is nat to exp tha sub of the und lat top wil be hig cor .
in sci , for ins , an art abo gen may be lik to als be abo hea and dis , but unl to als be abo x - ray ast .
for the lda mod , thi lim ste fro the ind ass im - pli in the dir dis on the top pro .
und a dir , the com of the pro vec are nea ind , whi lea to the str and unr mod ass tha the pre of one top is not cor wit the pre of ano .
the ctm rep the dir by the mor exi log nor dis , whi inc a cov str - tur amo the com ( 123 ) .
thi giv a mor rea mod of the lat top str whe the pre of one lat top may be cor wit the pre of ano .
how , the abi to mod cor bet top sac som of the com con tha lda aff .
spe , the con bet the mul and dir fac str app pos in - fer in lda .
tha con is los whe the dir is rep wit a log - tic nor .
sta sim tec suc as gib sam are no lon pos , and met bas mcm sam is pro due to the sca and hig dim of the dat .
thu , we dev a fas var inf pro for car out app - ima inf wit the ctm mod .
var inf ( 123 , 123 ) tra the un - bia est of mcm pro for pot bia but com efc alg who num con is eas to ass .
var inf alg hav bee eff in lda for ana lar doc col ( 123 ) .
we ext the use to the ctm .
the res of thi pap is org as fol .
we rst pre the cor top mod and dis its und mod ass .
the , we pre an out of the var app to inf ( the tec det are col - lec in the app ) and the var exp pro for par est .
fin , we ana the per of the mod on the jst sci dat .
qua , we sho tha it giv a bet t tha lda , as mea by the acc of the pre dis ove hel out doc .
qua , we pre an ana of all of sci fro 123 , inc exa of top rel art fou usi the inf lat str , and top gra tha are con fro a spa est of the cov str of the mod .
the pap con wit a bri dis of the res and fut wor tha it sug .
the cor top mod .
the cor top mod ( ctm ) is a hi - era mod of doc col .
the ctm mod the wor of eac doc fro a mix mod .
the mix com are sha by all doc - ume in the col the mix pro are doc - spe ran
ble and j .
laf
var .
the ctm all eac doc to exh mul top wit dif - ent pro .
it can thu cap the het in gro dat tha exh mul lat pat .
we use the fol ter and not to des the dat , lat var - abl and par in the ctm .
wor and doc .
the onl obs ran var tha we con are wor tha are org int doc .
let wd , n den the nth wor in the dth doc , whi is an ele in a v - ter voc .
let wd den the vec of nd wor ass wit doc d .
top .
a top is a dis ove the voc , a poi on the v 123 sim .
the mod wil con k top 123 : k .
top ass .
eac wor is eac ass dra fro one of the k top .
the top ass zd , n is ass wit the nth wor and dth doc .
top pro .
fin , eac doc is ass wit a set of top pro - por d , whi is a poi on the k 123 sim .
thu , d is a dis ove top ind , and ree the pro wit whi wor are dra fro eac top in the col .
we wil typ con a nat par - ter of thi mul = log ( i / k ) .
spe , the cor top mod ass tha an n - wor doc ari fro the fol gen pro .
giv top 123 : k , a k - vec and a k k cov mat : | ( , ) n ( , ) .
dra d 123
for n ( 123 , .
, nd ) : ( a ) dra top ass zd , n|d fro mul ( f ( d ) ) .
( b ) dra wor wd , n| ( zd , n , 123 : k
) fro mul ( zd , n
whe f ( ) map a nat par of the top pro to the mea
= f ( ) = exp ( ) i exp ( i ) .
( not tha doe not ind a min exp fam .
add any con to wil res in an ide mea par . ) thi pro is ill as a pro gra mod in fig 123
( a pro gra mod is a gra rep of a fam of joi dis wit a gra .
nod den ran var edg den pos dep bet the . )
the ctm bui on the lat dir all ( lda ) mod ( 123 ) .
lat dir all ass a nea ide gen pro , but one whe the top pro are dra fro a dir .
in lda and its var , the dir is a com con dis ove top pro be - cau it is con to the top ass .
but , the dir ass nea
a cor top mod of sci
top : pro gra mod rep of the cor top mod .
the lo - gis nor dis , use to mod the lat top pro of a doc , can rep cor bet top tha are imp to cap usi a dir .
bot : exa den - sit of the log nor on the 123 - sim .
fro lef : dia cov and non - mea , neg cor bet top 123 and 123 , pos cor bet top 123 and 123
ind of the com of the pro .
in fac , one can sim a dra fro a dir by dra fro k ind gam dis and nor the res vec .
( not tha the is sli neg cor due to the con tha the com sum to one . )
rat tha use a dir , the ctm dra a rea val ran vec fro a mul gau and the map it to the sim to obt a mul par - met .
thi is the den cha of the log nor dis ( 123 ) .
the cov of the gau ind dep bet the com of the tra ran sim vec , all for a gen pat of var - abi bet its com .
the log nor was ori stu in the con of ana obs com dat , suc as the pro of min - era in geo sam .
in the ctm , we use it to mod the lat com of top ass wit eac doc .
the dra of usi the log nor is tha it is not con to the mul , whi com the cor app pos inf - enc pro .
the adv , how , is tha it pro a mor exp doc mod .
the str ind ass imp by the dir is not rea whe ana rea doc col , whe one nds str cor bet the lat top .
for exa , a doc abo geo is
ble and j .
laf
mor lik to als be abo arc tha gen .
we aim to use the cov - anc mat of the log nor to cap suc rel .
in sec 123 we ill how the hig ord str giv by the cov - anc can be use as an exp too for bet und and nav a lar cor of doc .
mor , mod cor can lea to bet pre dis .
in som app , suc as aut rec sys , the goa is to pre uns ite con on a set of obs .
a dir - bas mod wil pre ite bas on the lat top tha the obs - vat sug , but the ctm wil pre ite ass wit add top tha are cor wit the con pro top .
com wit the cor top mod .
we add two com - put pro tha ari whe usi the cor top mod to ana dat .
fir , giv a col of top and dis ove top pro
( 123 : k , , ) , we est the pos dis of the lat var con - dit on the wor of a doc p ( , z|w , 123 : k , , ) .
thi let us emb
new obs doc int the low dim lat the spa tha the mod rep .
we use a fas var inf alg to app thi pos , whi let us qui ana lar doc col und the com mod ass .
sec , giv a col of doc ( w12 , .
, wd ) , we nd max lik - lih est of the top and the und log nor dis un - der the mod ass of the ctm .
we use a var of the exp - max alg , whe the e - ste is the per - doc pos inf pro des abo .
fur , we see spa sol of the inv cov mat bet top , and we ada ( cid : 123 ) 123 - reg cov est - tio ( 123 ) for thi pur .
pos inf wit var met .
giv a doc w and a
mod ( 123 : k , , ) , the pos dis of the per - doc lat var
p ( , z|w , 123 : k , , )
n=1 p ( zn| ) p ( wn| , 123 : k ) zn= p ( zn| ) p ( wn| , 123 : k ) d
whi is int to com due to the int in the den , tha is , the mar pro of the doc tha we are con on .
the are two rea for thi int .
fir , the sum ove the k val of zn occ ins the pro ove wor , ind a com num of ter .
sec , eve if k n sta wit the rea of com tra , the dis of top pro p ( | , ) is not con to the dis of top ass p ( zn| ) .
thu , we can ana com the int of eac ter .
a cor top mod of sci
the non fur pre usi man of the mon car mar cha ( mcm ) sam tec tha hav bee dev for com wit dir - bas mix mem mod ( 123 , 123 ) .
the mcm met are all bas on gib sam , whe the con bet the lat var let us com coo - wis pos ana .
to emp mcm in the log nor set con her , we hav to app to a tai met has sol .
suc a tec wil not enj the sam con pro and spe of the gib sam , whi is par hin for the goa of ana col tha com mil of wor .
thu , to app thi pos , we app to var met as a det - min alt to mcm .
the ide beh var met is to opt the fre par of a dis ove the lat var so tha the dis - uti is clo in kul div to the tru pos ( 123 , 123 ) .
the tte var dis is the use as a sub for the pos , jus as the emp dis of sam is use in mcm .
var met hav had wid app in mac lea the pot in app bay sta is beg to be rea .
in mod com of con - exp fam pai and mix , the var inf alg can be aut der by com exp - tat of nat par in the var dis ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
how , the non pai of var in the ctm req tha we der the var inf alg fro rst pri .
we beg by usi jen ine to bou the log pro of a doc -
log p ( w12 : n| , , )
eq ( log p ( | , ) ) + n ( cid : 123 )
eq ( log p ( wn| , ) ) + h ( q ) ,
whe the exp is tak wit res to q , a var dis of the lat var , and h ( q ) den the ent of tha dis .
as a var dis , we use a ful fac mod , whe all the var are ind - den gov by a dif dis ,
q ( 123 : k , z12 : n|1 : k , 123
q ( i|i , 123
123 : k , 123 : n ) = k ( cid : 123 )
the var dis of the dis top ass z12 : n are spe by the k - dim mul par 123 : n ( the are mea par of the mul ) .
the var dis of the con var 123 : k
ble and j .
laf
are k ind uni gau ( i , i ) .
sin the var par are t usi a sin obs doc w12 : n , the is no adv in int a non var cov mat .
the var inf alg opt equ ( 123 ) wit res to the var par , the tig the bou on the mar pro of the obs as muc as the str of var dis all .
thi is equ to ndi the var dis tha min kl ( q|| ) , whe p is the tru pos ( 123 , 123 ) .
det of thi opt for the ctm are giv in the app .
not tha var met do not com wit the sam the gua as mcm , whe the lim dis of the cha is exa the pos of int .
how , var met pro fas alg and a cle con - gen cri , whe mcm met can be com ine and det whe a mar cha has con is dif ( 123 ) .
par est .
giv a col of doc , we car out pa - ram est for the cor top mod by att to max the lik of a cor of doc as a fun of the top 123 : k and the mul - tiv gau ( , ) .
as in man lat var mod , we can com the mar lik of the dat bec of the lat str tha nee to be mar out .
to ad - dre thi iss , we use var exp ( em ) .
in the e - ste of tra em , one com the pos dis of the lat var giv the dat and cur mod par .
in var em , we use the var - tio app to the pos des in the pre sec .
not tha thi is aki to mon car em , whe the e - ste is app by a mon car app to the pos ( 123 ) .
giv by sum equ ( 123 ) ove the doc col ( w12 , .
, wd ) , ( log p ( d , zd , wd| , , 123 : k ) ) + h ( qd ) .
spe , the obj fun of var em is the lik bou
; w12 : d ) d ( cid : 123 )
l ( , , 123 : k
the var em alg is coo asc in thi obj fun .
in the e - ste , we max the bou wit res to the var par by per var inf for eac doc .
in the m - ste , we max the bou wit res to the mod par .
thi amo to max lik - hoo est of the top and mul gau usi exp suf sta , whe the exp is tak wit res to the var dis - tio com in the e - ste ,
a cor top mod of sci
( cid : 123 ) = 123 ( cid : 123 ) = 123
+ ( d ( cid : 123 ) ) ( d ( cid : 123 ) ) t ,
whe nd is the vec of wor cou for doc d .
the e - ste and m - ste are rep unt the bou on the lik con - ver .
in the ana rep bel , we run var inf unt the rel - ati cha in the pro bou of equ ( 123 ) is les tha 123 , and run var em unt the rel cha in the lik bou is les tha
top gra .
as see bel , the abi of the ctm to mod the cor - lat bet top yie a bet t of a doc col tha lda .
but the cov of the log nor mod for top pro can als be use to vis the rel amo the top .
in par , the cov mat can be use to for a top gra , whe the nod rep ind top , and nei nod rep hig rel top .
in suc set , it is use to hav a mec to con the spa of the gra .
rec tha the gra enc the ind rel in a gau gra - ica mod is spe by the zer pat in the inv cov mat .
mor pre , if x n ( , ) is a k - dim mul gau , and s = den the inv cov mat , the we for a gra g ( ) = ( v , e ) wit ver v cor to the ran var x12 , .
, xk and edg e sat - fyi ( s , t ) e if and onl if sst ( cid : 123 ) = 123
if n ( s ) = ( t : ( s , t ) e ) den the set of nei of s in the gra , the the ind rel xs xu| ( s ) hol for any nod u / n ( s ) tha is not a nei of s .
rec wor of mei and bhl ( 123 ) sho how the las ( 123 ) can be ada to giv an asy con est of the gra g ( ) .
the str is to reg eac var xs ont all of the oth var , imp an ( cid : 123 ) 123 pen on the par to enc spa .
the non com the ser as an est of the nei of s in the gra .
in mor det , let s = ( s12 , .
, sk ) rk be the par of the las t obt by reg xs ont ( xt ) t ( cid : 123 ) =s , wit the par ss ser as the unr int .
the opt pro is
( cid : 123 ) xs x\s s ( cid : 123 ) 123
whe x\s den the set of var wit xs rep by the vec of all 123 , and \s den the vec s wit com ss rem .
the est set of nei is the
( cid : 123 ) s = arg min
( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) = ( t : ( cid : 123 ) st ( cid : 123 ) = 123 ) .
ble and j .
laf
( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) = n ( s ) ) 123 as the sam mei and bhl ( 123 ) sho tha p ( siz n inc , for a sui cho of the reg par n sat log ( k ) .
mor , the con is exp fas , and as a con - seq , if k = o ( nd ) gro onl pol wit sam siz , the est gra is the tru gra wit pro app one .
to ada the mei tec to the ctm , rec tha we es - tim the cov mat usi var em , whe in the m - ste we max the var low bou wit res to app com in the e - ste .
for a giv doc d , the var app to the pos of is a nor wit mea d rk .
we tre the sta mea vec ( d ) as dat , and reg eac com ont the oth wit an ( cid : 123 ) 123 pen .
two sim pro can be use to the for the gra edg set , by tak the con or dis of the loc nei est :
( s , t ) ean ( s , t ) eor
in cas t ( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) and s ( cid : 123 ) n ( t ) , in cas t ( cid : 123 ) n ( s ) or s ( cid : 123 ) n ( t ) .
fig 123 sho an exa of a top gra con usi thi met , wit edg ean for by int the nei est .
var the reg par n all con ove the spa of the gra the gra bec inc spa as n inc .
ana sci .
jst is an on - lin arc of sch jou tha sca bou vol dat bac to the 123 and run opt cha rec - tio alg on the sca .
thu , jst sto and ind hun of mil of pag of noi tex , all sea thr the int .
thi is an inv re - sou to sch .
the jst col pro an opp for dev exp ana and use des sta of lar vol of tex dat .
as the are , the art are org by jou , vol and num .
but the use of jst wou ben fro a top org of art fro dif jou and aut rec of sim art to tho kno to be of int .
in som mod ele sch arc , suc as the arx ( htt : / / www .
arx . org / ) , con pro met - dat wit the man tha des and cat the wor to aid in suc a top exp of the col .
in man tex dat set , how , met - dat is una .
mor , the may be und - lyi top and con bet art tha the aut or cur hav not det .
to the end , we ana a lar por of jst cor of art - cle fro sci wit the ctm .
qua ana of sci .
in thi sec we ill the pos app of the ctm to aut cor ana and bro .
we est a 123 - top mod on the sci art fro 123 to 123 usi the var
a por of the top gra lea fro 123 , 123 ocr art fro sci ( 123 ) .
eac top nod is lab wit its ve mos pro phr and has fon pro to its pop in the cor .
( phr are fou by per tes . ) the ful mod can be fou in htt : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ lem / sci / and on sta .
ble and j .
laf
em alg of sec 123 .
( c cod tha imp thi alg can be fou at the rst aut web - sit and sta . ) the tot voc siz in thi col - lec is 123 , 123 ter .
we tri the 123 , 123 ter tha occ few tha 123 tim as wel as 123 sto wor , tha is , wor lik the , but or wit , whi do not con mea .
thi yie a cor of 123 , 123 doc , 123 , 123 uni ter and a tot of 123 wor .
usi the tec des in sec 123 , we con a spa gra ( = 123 ) of the con bet the est lat top .
par of thi gra is ill in fig 123
( for spa , we man rem top tha occ ver rar and tho tha cap non con suc as fro mat . ) thi gra pro a sna of ten yea of sci , and rev dif sub - tur of the in the col .
a use int in the bra can res att to art tha use the neu top a use int in gen can res att to tho art in the clu of gen top .
fur str is rev at the doc lev , whe eac doc is as - soc wit a lat vec of top pro .
the pos dis of the pro can be use to ass doc wit lat top .
for exa , the fol are the top ve art ass wit the top who mos pro voc ite are las , opt , lig , ele , qua :
vac squ of sol : mac qua sta dri by
lig pul ( 123 ) .
sup ray sca fro a bos con
phy and dev app of opt mic ( 123 ) .
pho num squ sta in sem las ( 123 ) .
a wel - col qua - con ato las ( 123 ) .
mor , we can use the exp dis bet per - doc top pro - por to ide oth doc tha hav sim top con .
we use the exp hel dis , whi is a sym dis bet dis .
con two doc i and j , e ( d ( i , j ) ) = eq
= 123 123
whe all exp are tak wit res to the var pos dis - but ( see sec 123 ) .
one exa of thi app of the lat var ana is ill in fig 123
the int rea is inv to vis htt : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ lem / sci / to int exp thi mod , inc the top , the con , the ar - tic tha exh the and the exp hel sim bet art .
a cor top mod of sci
usi the hel dis to nd sim art to the que art ear sol iro cor may ske its mag fie .
ill are the top thr art by hel dis to the que art and the exp pos top pro for eac art .
not tha eac doc som com geo and phy .
qua com to lat dir all .
we com the log nor to the dir by tti a sma col of art to ctm and lda mod of var num of top .
thi col con the 123 , 123 doc fro 123 we use a voc of 123 , 123 wor aft pru com fun wor and ter tha occ onc in the col .
usi ten - fol cro val , we com the log pro of the hel - out dat giv a mod est fro the rem dat .
a bet mod of the doc col wil ass hig pro to the hel out dat .
to avo com bou , we use
ble and j .
laf
( lef ) the 123 - fol cro - val hel - out log pro of the 123 sci cor , com by imp sam .
the ctm sup mor top tha lda .
see gur at rig for the sta err of the dif .
( rig ) the mea dif in hel - out log pro .
num gre tha zer ind a bet t by the ctm .
imp sam to com the log pro of a doc whe the tte var dis is the pro .
fig 123 ill the ave hel out log pro for eac mod and the ave dif bet the .
the ctm pro a bet t tha lda and sup mor top the lik for lda pea nea 123 top , whi the lik for the ctm pea clo to 123 top .
the mea and sta err of the dif in log - lik of the mod is sho at rig thi ind tha the ctm alw giv a bet t .
ano qua eva of the rel str of lda and the ctm is how wel the mod pre the rem wor of a doc aft obs a por of it .
spe , we obs p wor fro a doc and are in - ter in whi mod pro a bet pre dis of the rem wor p ( w|w : p ) .
to com the dis , we use per , whi can be tho of as the eff num of equ lik wor acc to the mod .
mat , the per of a wor dis is den as the inv of the per - wor geo ave of the pro of the obs ,
p ( wi| , w12 : p )
whe den the mod par of an lda or ctm mod .
not tha low num den mor pre pow .
the plo in fig 123 com the pre per und lda and the ctm for dif num of wor ran obs fro the doc .
a cor top mod of sci
( lef ) the 123 - fol cro - val pre per for par obs hel - out doc - ume fro the 123 sci cor ( k = 123 ) .
low num ind mor pre pow fro the ctm .
( rig ) the mea dif in pre per .
num les tha zer ind bet pre fro the ctm .
whe a sma num of wor hav bee obs , the is les unc abo the rem wor und the ctm tha und lda per is red by nea 123 wor , or rou 123 .
the rea is tha aft see a few wor in one top , the ctm use top cor to inf tha wor in a rel top may als be pro .
in con , lda can pre the rem wor as wel unt a lar por of the doc has bee obs so tha all of its top are
sum .
we hav dev a hie top mod of doc tha rep the dir dis of per - doc top pro wit a log nor .
thi all the mod to cap cor bet the occ - ren of lat top .
the res cor top mod giv bet pre per and unc int des sta for fac bro - ing and sea .
use of the log nor , whi mor com , may hav ben in the man app of dir - bas mix mem mod .
one iss tha we did not tho exp is mod sel , tha is , cho - ing the num of top for a col .
in oth top mod , non - ric bay met bas on the dir pro are a nat sui of too bec the can acc new top as mor doc are obs .
( the non bay ver of lda is exa the hie dir - let pro ( 123 ) . ) the log nor , how , doe not imm giv way to suc ext .
tac the mod sel iss in thi set is an imp are of fut res .
ble and j .
laf
app : det of var inf
var obj .
bef der the opt pro , we put the obj fun equ ( 123 ) in ter of the var par .
the rst
eq ( log p ( | , ) )
log 123 123
123 ) + ( ) t
the non of the log nor to mul lea to dif in com the sec ter of equ ( 123 ) , the exp log pro of a top
eq ( log p ( zn| ) ) = eq ( t zn ) eq
to pre the low bou on the log pro , we upp bou the neg log nor wit a tay exp :
123 + log ( ) ,
usi thi add bou , the sec ter of equ ( 123 ) is
eq ( log p ( zn| ) ) = k ( cid : 123 )
whe we hav int a new var par .
the exp eq ( exp ( i ) ) is the mea of a log nor dis wit mea and var ob - i / 123 ) for ) : eq ( exp ( i ) ) = exp ( i + 123 tai fro the var par ( i , 123 i ( 123 , .
thi is a sim app tha the mor exi , but mor com - put int , met tak in ( 123 ) .
eq ( log p ( wn| , ) ) = k ( cid : 123 ) + log 123 + 123 ) n ( cid : 123 )
the fou ter is the ent of the var dis :
the thi ter of equ ( 123 ) is
exp ( i + 123
+ 123 log .
n , i log i , wn .
n , i log n , i .
123 ( log 123
a cor top mod of sci
not tha the add var par is not nee to com thi
coo asc opt .
fin , we max the bou in equ - tio ( 123 ) wit res to the var par 123 : k , 123 : k , 123 : n and .
we use a coo asc alg , ite max the bou wit res to eac par .
fir , we max equ ( 123 ) wit res to , usi the sec bou in
equ ( 123 ) .
the der wit res to is exp ( i + 123
( ) = n
whi has a max at
exp ( i + 123
sec , we max wit res to n .
thi yie a max at
i ( 123 ,
n , i exp ( i ) i , wn ,
whi is an app of var inf upd wit the exp fam ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
thi , we max wit res to i .
equ ( 123 ) is not ame to ana
123 ( ) + n ( cid : 123 )
max .
we use the con gra alg wit der n , 123 : k ( n / ) exp ( + 123 / 123 ) .
fin , we max wit res to 123 use new met for eac coo wit the con tha i > 123 ,
ii / 123 n / 123 exp ( i + 123
i / 123 ) + 123 / ( 123
aga , the is no ana sol
ite bet the opt of , , and den a coo asc alg on equ ( 123 ) .
( in pra , we opt wit res to in bet opt for , and . ) tho eac coo opt is con , the var obj is not con wit res to the ens of var par .
we are onl gua to nd a loc max , but not tha thi is sti a bou on the log pro of a doc .
ack .
we tha two ano rev for the exc sug for imp the pap .
we tha jst for pro acc to jou mat in the jst arc .
we tha jon mca and nat sre for use dis and com .
a pre ver of thi wor app
ble and j .
laf
