pro top mod are a pop too for the uns ana of tex , pro bot a pre mod of fut tex and a lat top rep of the cor .
pra typ ass tha the lat spa is sem mea .
it is use to che mod , sum the cor , and gui exp - rat of its con .
how , whe the lat spa is int is in nee of qua eva .
in thi pap , we pre new qua met for mea sem mea in inf top .
we bac the mea wit lar - sca use stu , sho tha the cap asp of the mod tha are und by pre mea of mod qua bas on hel - out lik .
sur , top mod whi per bet on hel - out lik may inf les sem mea top .
pro top mod hav bec pop too for the uns ana of lar doc col ( 123 ) .
the mod pos a set of lat top , mul dis ove wor , and ass tha eac doc can be des as a mix of the top .
wit alg for fas app pos inf , we can use top mod to dis bot the top and an ass of top to doc fro a col of doc .
( see fig 123 ) the mod ass are use in the sen tha , emp , the lea to goo mod of doc .
the als ane lea to sem mea dec of the : top ten to pla hig pro on wor tha rep con , and doc are rep as exp of tho con .
per the inf top is eff for mod ver and for ens tha the mod is cap the pra int abo the doc .
mor , pro a hum - int dec of the tex can be a goa in its , as whe bro or sum a lar col of doc .
in thi spi , muc of the lit com dif top mod pre exa of top and exa of doc - top ass to hel und a mod mec .
top als can hel use dis new con via cor exp ( 123 ) .
the pre of the top ser , eit exp or imp , as a qua eva of the lat spa , but the is no exp qua eva of the .
ins , res emp a var of met of mod t , suc as per or hel - out lik .
suc mea are use for eva the pre mod , but do not add the mor exp goa of top mod .
wor don whi at pri uni .
( b ) doc ass to top
fig 123 : the lat spa of a top mod con of top , whi are dis ove wor , and a dis ove the top for eac doc .
on the lef are thr top fro a fty top lda mod tra on art fro the new yor tim .
on the rig is a sim dep the dis ove top ass wit sev doc .
the lin fro eac doc tit sho the doc pos in the
in thi pap , we pre a met for mea the int of a top mod .
we dev two hum eva tas to exp eva bot the qua of the top inf by the mod and how wel the mod ass top to doc .
the rst , wor int , mea how sem coh the top inf by a mod are and tes whe top cor to nat gro for hum .
the sec , top int , mea how wel a top mod dec of a doc as a mix of top agr wit hum ass of top wit a doc .
we rep the res of a lar - sca hum stu of the tas , var bot mod ass and num of top .
we sho tha the tas cap asp of top mod not mea by exi met and whi ach bet pre per oft hav les int lat spa .
123 top mod and the eva
top mod pos tha eac doc is exp as a mix of top .
the top pro are dra onc per doc , and the top are sha acr the cor .
in thi pap we wil con top mod tha mak dif ass abo the top pro .
pro lat sem ind ( pls ) ( 123 ) mak no ass abo the doc top dis , tre it as a dis par for eac doc .
lat dir all ( lda ) ( 123 ) and the cor top mod ( ctm ) ( 123 ) tre eac doc top ass as a mul ran var dra fro a sym dir and log nor pri , res .
whi the mod mak dif ass , inf alg for all of the top mod bui the sam typ of lat spa : a col of top for the cor and a col of top pro for eac of its doc .
whi thi com lat spa has exp for ove two dec , its int rem unm .
pay no att to the lat spa beh the mod
alt we foc on pro top mod , the eld beg in ear wit lat sem ana ( lsa ) ( 123 ) .
lsa , the bas of pls pro for , use lin alg to dec - pos a cor int its con the .
bec lsa ori in the psy com , ear eva foc on rep hum per or jud usi lsa : mat per on sta tes , com sen dis , and mat int abo syn ( the res are rev in ( 123 ) ) .
in inf ret , whe lsa is kno as lat sem ind ( lsi ) ( 123 ) , it is abl to mat que to doc , mat exp to are of exp , and eve gen acr lan giv a par cor ( 123 ) .
com , tec , sys , ser , sit , pho , int , mac , lm , mov , the , pro , sta , dir , sta , sal , sto , pro , bus , adv , mar , con 123 123 123 the boo , jus dow the mov leg her as lin to gro sha of cin , tra at the cli of a mou pea cre put mup whe its mou iss tra : a bet dea for inv isn ' t sim thr big int por beg to dis amo the as sho mal lig , gre lig : a 123 - ton l . e . d .
to sim scr 123 123 123 the ret to loo und the hoo of the mod has per eve as mod hav mov fro psy int com sci wit the dev of pls and lda .
mod eit use mea bas on hel - out lik ( 123 , 123 ) or an ext tas tha is ind of the top spa suc as sen det ( 123 ) or inf ret ( 123 ) .
thi is tru eve for mod eng to hav sem coh top ( 123 ) .
for mod tha use hel - out lik , wal et al .
( 123 ) pro a sum of eva tec .
the met bor too fro the lan mod com to mea how wel the inf lea fro a cor app to uns doc .
the met gen eas and all for lik - bas com of dif mod or sel of mod par suc as the num of top .
how , thi ada com at a cos : the met onl mea the pro of obs the int rep of the mod is ign .
gri et al .
( 123 ) is an imp exc to the tre of usi ext tas or hel - out lik .
the sho tha the num of top a wor app in cor wit how man dis sen it has and rep man of the met use in the psy com bas on hum per .
how , thi is sti not a dee ana of the str of the lat spa , as it doe not exa the str of the top the .
we emp tha not mea the int rep of top mod is at odd wit the pre and dev .
mos top mod pap dis qua ass of the inf top or sim ass tha top are sem mea , and pra use top for mod che dur the dev pro .
hal et al .
( 123 ) , for exa , use lat top dee his rel to exp the in the sci lit .
eve in pro env , top are pre as the : rex ( htt : / / rex . inf ) , a sch pub sea eng , dis the top ass wit doc .
thi imp not tha top hav sem mea for use has eve mot wor tha att to aut lab top ( 123 ) .
our goa is to mea the suc of int top mod acr num of top and mod
123 usi hum jud to exa the top
alt the app to be a lon ass tha the lat spa dis by top mod is mea and use , eva suc ass is dif bec dis top is an uns pro .
the is no gol - sta lis of top to com aga for eve cor .
thu , eva the lat spa of top mod req us to gat exo dat .
in thi sec we pro two tas tha cre a for set whe hum can eva the two com of the lat spa of a top mod .
the rst com is the mak of the top .
we dev a tas to eva whe a top has hum - ide sem coh .
thi tas is cal wor int , as sub mus ide a spu wor ins int a top .
the sec tas tes whe the ass bet a doc and a top mak sen .
we cal thi tas top int , as the sub mus ide a top tha was not ass wit the doc by the
123 wor int
to mea the coh of the top , we dev the wor int tas thi tas inv eva the lat spa pre in fig 123 ( a ) .
in the wor int tas , the sub is pre wit six ran ord wor .
the tas of the use is to nd the wor whi is out of pla or doe not bel wit the oth , i . e . , the int .
fig 123 sho how thi tas is pre to use .
whe the set of wor min the int mak sen tog , the the sub sho eas ide the int .
for exa , mos peo rea ide app as the int wor in the set ( dog , cat , hor , app , pig , cow ) bec the rem wor , ( dog , cat , hor , pig , cow ) mak sen tog the are all ani .
for the set ( car , tea , pla , agi , blu , zai ) , whi lac suc coh , ide the int is dif .
peo wil typ cho an int at ran , imp a top wit poo coh .
in ord to con a set to pre to the sub , we rst sel at ran a top fro the mod .
we the sel the ve mos pro wor fro tha top .
in add to the wor , an int
fig 123 : scr of our two hum tas .
in the wor int tas ( lef ) , sub are pre wit a set of wor and ask to sel the wor whi doe not bel wit the oth .
in the top int tas ( rig ) , use are giv a doc tit and the rst few sen of the doc .
the use mus sel whi of the fou gro of wor doe not bel .
wor is sel at ran fro a poo of wor wit low pro in the cur top ( to red the pos tha the int com fro the sam sem gro ) but hig pro in som oth top ( to ens tha the int is not rej out due sol to rar ) .
all six wor are the shu and pre to the sub .
123 top int
the top int tas tes whe a top mod dec of doc int a mix of top agr wit hum jud of the doc con .
thi all for eva of the lat spa dep by fig 123 ( b ) .
in thi tas , sub are sho the tit and a sni fro a doc .
alo wit the doc the are pre wit fou top ( eac top is rep by the eig hig - pro wor wit tha top ) .
thr of tho top are the hig pro top ass to tha doc .
the rem int top is cho ran fro the oth low - pro top in the mod .
the sub is ins to cho the top whi doe not bel wit the doc .
as bef , if the top ass to doc wer rel and int , we wou exp tha sub wou sel the top we ran add as the top tha did not bel .
the for of thi tas pro a nat way to ana the qua of doc - top ass fou by the top mod .
eac of the thr mod we t exp ass top wei to eac doc thi tas det whe hum mak the sam ass .
due to tim con , sub do not see the ent doc the onl see the tit and rst few sen .
whi thi is les inf tha is ava to the alg , hum are goo at ext fro lim dat , and our cor ( enc and new ) are str to pro an ove of the art in the rst few sen .
the set of thi tas is als mea in sit whe one mig be tem to use top for cor exp .
if top are use to nd rel doc , for exa , use wil lik be pro wit sim vie of the doc ( e . g .
tit and abs , as in rex ) .
for bot the wor int and top int tas , sub wer ins to foc on the mea of wor , not the syn usa or ort .
we als pre sub wit the opt of vie the cor ans aft the sub the own res , to mak the tas mor eng .
her the cor ans was det by the mod whi gen the dat , pre as if it wer the res of ano use .
at the sam tim , sub wer enc to bas the res on the own opi , not to try to mat oth sub ( the mod ) sel .
in sma exp , we hav fou tha thi ext inf did not bia sub res .
123 exp res
to pre dat for hum sub to rev , we t thr dif top mod on two cor .
in thi sec , we des how we pre the cor , t the mod , and cre the tas des in sec 123
we the pre the res of the hum tri and com the to met tra use to eva top mod .
wor int int 123 mod and cor
in thi wor we stu thr top mod : pro lat sem ind ( pls ) ( 123 ) , lat dir all ( lda ) ( 123 ) , and the cor top mod ( ctm ) ( 123 ) , whi are all mix mem mod ( 123 ) .
the num of lat top , k , is a fre par in eac of the mod her we exp thi wit k = 123 , 123 and 123
the rem par k , the top mul dis for top k; and d , the top mix pro for doc d are inf fro dat .
the thr mod dif in how the lat par are inf .
pls in pls , the top mix pro d are a par for eac doc .
thu , pls is not a ful gen mod , and the num of par gro lin wit the num of doc .
we t pls usi the em alg ( 123 ) but reg pls est of d usi pse - cou smo , = 123
lda lda is a ful gen mod of doc whe the mix pro d are tre as a ran var dra fro a dir pri dis .
bec the dir com of the pos is int , we emp var inf ( 123 ) and set the sym dir pri par , , to 123
ctm in lda , the com of d are nea ind ( i . e . , d is sta neu ) .
ctm all for a ric cov str bet top pro by usi a log nor pri ove the top mix pro d .
for eac top , k , a rea is dra fro a nor dis and exp .
thi set of k non - neg num are the nor to yie d .
her , we tra the ctm usi var inf ( 123 ) .
we tra eac mod on two cor .
for eac cor , we app a par of spe tag ( 123 ) and rem all tok tag as pro nou ( thi was for the ben of the hum sub suc in ear exp req too muc enc kno ) .
sto wor ( 123 ) and ter occ in few tha ve doc are als rem .
the two cor we use are 123 ) a col of 123 art fro the new yor tim fro the yea 123 to 123 wit a voc siz of 123 uni typ and aro one mil tok and 123 ) a sam of 123 art fro wik ( htt : / / www . wik . org ) wit a voc siz of 123 uni typ and thr mil tok .
123 eva usi con obj mea
the are sev met com use to eva top mod in the lit ( 123 ) .
man of the met are pre met tha is , the cap the mod abi to pre a tes set of uns doc aft hav lea its par fro a tra set .
in thi wor , we set asi 123 of the doc in eac cor as a tes set and tra on the rem 123 of doc .
we the com pre ran and pre log lik .
to ens con of eva acr dif mod , we fol teh et al . s ( 123 ) app of the pre lik p ( wd| ) usi p ( wd| ) p ( wd| ) , whe d is a poi est of the pos top pro for doc d .
for pls d is the map est for lda and ctm d is the mea of the var pos .
wit thi inf , we can ask wha wor the mod bel wil be in the doc and com it wit the doc act com .
giv doc wd , we rst est d and the for eve wor in the voc , we com z p ( w|z ) p ( z|d ) .
the we com the ave ran for the ter tha act
p ( w|d ) = ( cid : 123 )
app in doc wd ( we fol the con tha low ran is bet ) .
the ave wor lik and ave ran acr all doc in our tes set are sho in tab 123
the res are con wit the val rep in the lit ( 123 , 123 ) ; in mos cas ctm per bes , fol by lda .
123 ana hum eva
the tas des in sec 123 wer off on ama mec tur ( htt : / / www . mtu . com ) , whi all wor ( our poo of pro sub ) to per sma job for a fee thr a web int .
no spe tra or kno is typ exp of the wor .
ama mec tur has bee suc use in the pas to dev gol - sta dat for nat lan pro ( 123 ) and to lab ima ( 123 ) .
for bot the wor int and top int
tab 123 : two pre met : pre log lik / pre ran .
con wit val rep in the lit , ctm gen per the bes , fol by lda , the pls .
the bol num ind the bes per in eac row .
new yor tim
- 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123
- 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123
- 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123
fig 123 : the mod pre ( equ 123 ) for the thr mod on two cor .
hig is bet .
sur , alt ctm gen ach a bet pre lik tha the oth mod ( tab 123 ) , the top it inf far wor whe eva aga hum jud .
tas , we pre eac wor wit job con ten of the tas des in sec 123
eac job was per by 123 sep wor , and wor wer pai bet $12 $12 per job .
wor int as des in sec 123 , the wor int tas mea how wel the inf top mat hum con ( usi mod pre , i . e . , how wel the int det by the sub cor to tho inj int one fou by the top mod ) .
k be the ind of the int wor amo the wor gen fro the kth top inf by mod m .
fur let im k , s be the int sel by sub s on the set of wor gen fro the kth top inf by mod m and let s den the num of sub .
we den mod pre by the fra of sub agr wit the mod ,
k , s = m
fig 123 sho box of the pre for the thr mod on the two cor .
in mos cas lda per bes .
alt ctm giv bet pre res on hel - out lik , it doe not per as wel on hum eva .
thi may be bec ctm nds cor bet top and cor wit top are con fac the int for one top mig be sel fro ano hig cor top .
the per of pls deg wit lar num of top , sug tha ove ( 123 ) mig aff int as wel as pre pow .
fig 123 ( lef ) sho exa of top wit hig and low mod pre fro the ny tim dat t wit lda usi 123 top .
in the exa wit hig pre , the top wor all coh exp a pai the .
for the low pre exa , tax did not t in wit the oth pol wor in the top , as 123 of sub cho tax as the int .
the rel bet mod pre , mpm k , and the mod est of the lik of the int wor in fig 123 ( top row ) is sur .
the hig pro did not hav the bes int in fac , the tre was the opp .
thi sug tha as top bec mor ne - gra in mod wit lar num of top , the are les use for hum .
the dow
mod pre . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 top top top yor tim fig 123 : a his of the mod pre on the new yor tim cor ( lef ) and top log odd on the wik cor ( rig ) eva for the fty top lda mod .
on the lef , exa top are sho for sev bin the top in bin wit hig mod pre evi a mor coh the .
on the rig , exa doc tit are sho for sev bin doc wit hig top log odd can be mor eas dec as a mix of top .
fig 123 : a sca plo of mod pre ( top row ) and top log odd ( bot row ) vs .
pre log lik .
eac poi is col by mod and siz acc to the num of top use to t the mod .
eac mod is acc by a reg lin .
inc lik doe not inc the agr bet hum sub and the mod for eit tas ( as sho by the dow - slo reg lin ) .
slo tre lin in fig 123 imp tha the mod are oft tra imp lik for the mod pre sho a neg cor ( spe = 123 ave acr all mod , cor , and top ) wit the num of sen in wor of the wor dis to the sub ( 123 ) and a sli pos cor ( = 123 ) wit the ave pai jia - con sim of wor ( 123 ) .
top int in sec 123 , we int the top int tas to mea how wel a top mod ass top to doc .
we den the top log odd as a qua mea of the agr bet the mod and hum jud on thi tas .
let m d den mod ms poi est of the top pro vec ass wit doc d ( as des in sec 123 ) .
d , s ( 123 .
k ) be the int top sel by sub s for doc d on mod fur , let jm m and let jm d , den the tru int , i . e . , the one gen by the mod .
we den the top log odd as the log rat of the pro mas ass to the tru int to the pro mas
123 wit ent in wor wer ign pol was han by tak the max ove all sen of wor .
to han wor in the sam syn ( e . g .
ght and bat ) , the sim fun was cap at 123 .
mod pre of top . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 log odd of doc ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 . 123 qui ada wor hop log lik . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 yor tim . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 pre log odd of top fig 123 : the top log odd ( equ 123 ) for the thr mod on two cor .
hig is bet .
alt ctm gen ach a bet pre lik tha the oth mod ( tab 123 ) , the top it inf far wor whe eva aga hum jud .
d = ( ( cid : 123 )
s log m
d , log m
ass to the int sel by the sub ,
d , the gre the cor bet the jud of the mod d is 123
thi is ach whe the sub cho
the hig the val of tlo and the sub .
the upp bou on tlo int wit a mix pro no hig tha the tru int .
fig 123 sho box of the top log odd for the thr mod .
as wit mod pre , lda and pls gen out ctm .
aga , thi tre run cou to ctm sup per on pre lik .
a his of the tlo of ind wik doc is giv in fig 123 ( rig ) for the fty - top lda mod .
doc abo ver spe , una con , suc as lin hop , hav hig tlo bec it is eas for bot hum and the mod to ass the doc to a par top .
whe doc exp mul dis top , hum jud div fro tho of the mod .
at the low end of the sca is the art boo whi tou on div are suc as his , sci , and com .
it is dif for lda to pin dow spe the in thi art whi mat hum per .
fig 123 ( bot row ) sho tha , as wit mod pre , inc pre lik doe not imp imp top log odd sco .
whi the top log odd are nea con acr all num of top for lda and pls , for ctm top log odd and pre lik are neg cor , yie the sur con tha hig pre lik do not lea to imp mod int .
we pre the rst val of the ass coh and rel of top mod usi hum exp .
for thr top mod , we dem tha tra met do not cap whe top are coh or not .
tra met are , ind , neg cor wit the mea of top qua dev in thi pap .
our mea ena new for of mod sel and sug tha pra dev top mod sho thu foc on eva tha dep on rea - wor tas per rat tha opt lik - bas mea .
in a mor qua vei , thi wor val the use of top for cor exp and inf ret .
hum app the sem coh of top and can ass the sam doc wit a top tha a top mod doe .
an int pos is the dev of mod tha exp see to opt the mea we dev her eit by inc hum jud int the mod - lea fra or cre a com pro tha sim hum jud .
dav m .
ble is sup by onr 123 - 123 , nsf car 123 and gra fro goo and mic .
we wou als lik to tha dan osh for his hel com .
