man lar col of doc is an imp - tan pro for man are of sci , ind , and cul .
pro top mod off a pro sol .
top mod is an uns mac lea met tha lea the und the in a lar col of oth uno doc .
thi dis str sum and org the doc .
how , top mod are hig - lev sta - tis too use mus scr num dis - but to und and exp the res .
in thi pap , we pre a met for vis top mod - els .
our met cre a nav of the doc , all use to exp the hid str tha a top mod dis .
the bro int rev mea pat in a col , hel end - use exp and und its con in new way .
we pro ope sou sof of our met .
und and nav lar col of doc - men has bec an imp act in man sph .
how , man doc col are not coh or - gan and org the by han is imp .
we nee aut way to dis and vis the str of a col in ord to mor eas exp its con .
pro top mod is a set of mac lea too tha may pro a sol ( ble and laf 123 ) .
top mod alg dis a hid the str - tur in a col of doc the nd sal the and rep eac doc as a com of the .
how , top mod are hig - lev sta too .
a use mus scr num dis to und and exp the res the raw out of the mod is not eno to cre an eas exp cor .
we pro a met for usi a tte top mod to org , sum , vis , and int wit a cor .
wit our met , use can exp the cor , mov be - twe hig lev dis sum ( the top ) and the doc the , as fig 123 ill .
our des is cen aro the ide tha the mod bot sum and org the col .
our met tra - lat the rep int a vis sys for exp a col , but vis thi str is not eno .
the dis str ind rel top and art , and bet art and art lea to int in the vis .
cop c ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ass for the adv of art int ( www . aaa . org ) .
all rig res .
thu , we hav thr mai goa in des the vis - iza : sum the cor for the use rev the rel - tio bet the con and sum and , rev the rel acr con .
we aim to pre the in a way tha are acc and use to a spe of use , not jus mac lea exp .
sev sol to the pro of und lar doc - ume cor inc exe - bas vis ( che et al .
123 ) , the ( hav , het , and now 123 ) , and fac ( cao et al .
the vis hel use und the cor as a who , but do not ena exp of ind doc .
our vis pro - vid bot a hig - lev sum of the cor and lin be - twe the sum and ind doc .
pre top mod res has foc on bui new top mod and imp alg for tti the .
res hav typ use bro to eva mod alg ( new et al .
123 gre et al .
123 gar et al .
the bro emp top , giv - ing lit att to doc .
fur , the inc lit vis rep , rel mos on num to con
we pre a way of usi top mod to hel lea abo and dis ite in a cor .
our nav pre the out of a top mod in an int tha ill a giv cor to non - tec use .
pro top mod
we rev top mod , foc on lat dir al - loc ( lda ) ( ble , ng , and jor 123 ) , whi is one of the sim pro top mod .
lda dec a col of doc int top pro dis - tri ove ter rep eac doc wit a ( wei ) sub of the top .
whe t to a set of doc - ume , the top are int as the in the col - lec , and the doc rep ind whi the eac doc is abo .
thu , the lea top sum the col , and the doc rep org the cor int ove gro .
lda is a sta mod of a col of tex .
hid - den ran var enc its the str .
the as - sum lda mak can be art by its pro gen pro , the ima pro by whi the col -
fig 123 : nav wik wit a top mod .
beg in the upp lef , we see a set of top , eac of whi is a the dis by a top mod alg .
we cli on a top abo lm and tel .
we cho a doc ass wit thi top , whi is the art abo lm dir sta kub .
the pag abo thi art inc its con and the top tha it is abo .
we exp a rel top abo phi and psy , and nal vie a rel art abo exi .
thi bro str the and how the doc are org acc to the cre by run a top mod alg on the raw tex of wik and vis its out .
thi nav can be fou at htt : / / bit . ly / wik
for k top , cho eac top dis k .
( eac k is a dis ove the voc . )
for eac doc in the col : ( a ) cho a dis ove top d .
( the var d is a dis ove k ele . )
( b ) for eac wor in the doc
cho a top ass zn fro d .
( eac zn is a num fro 123 to k . )
cho a wor wn fro the top dis zn .
( not zn sel the znt top fro ste 123 )
not tha the sam set of top ( 123 , .
, k ) is use for eve doc , but tha eac doc exh tho top wit dif pro d .
thi cap het - gen in doc : lda can mod tha som art are abo spo and bus , oth are abo spo and hea , and tha the top of spo is sim in eac .
in sta , thi is kno as a mix mem mod , whe eac dat poi exh mul com .
giv a set of doc , the cen pro for lda is pos inf of the var , or det the hid the str tha bes exp an obs col of doc .
thi is aki to rev the gen pro to nd the top , top pro , and top ass tha bes exp the obs doc - ume .
res hav dev sev alg for lda inf , inc mar cha mon car sam - pli ( ste and gri 123 ) and opt - bas var inf ( ble , ng , and jor 123 ) .
the al - gor tak a col of doc as inp and ret how the hid top var dec it .
in a set of
, k ) and a rep of eac doc of the col acc to tho top ( 123 , .
, d ) . 123 one of the mai app of top mod is for exp dat ana , tha is , to hel bro , und , and sum - riz oth uns col thi is the app - tio tha mot our wor .
vis a top mod
our goa are to use the top mod to sum the cor - pus , rev the rel bet doc and the dis - cov sum , and rev the rel bet the doc the .
we app our met to 123 , 123 wik art , whi we wil use as a run exa .
our vis use bot the obs dat fro a cor - pus and the inf top mod var . 123 the top mod var are the top k , eac of whi is a dis ove a voc , and the top pro d , one for eac doc and eac of whi is a dis ove the top .
we use mul vie to ill thi com str - tur and cre a bas nav tha ful rep a cor - pus thr the len of an lda ana .
in thi sec , we exp our des cho .
123 the top are int is an emp ndi the nam top mod is ret .
top mod cor to cu - rat the ( ste and gri 123 ) and to hum jud - men of int ( cha et al .
123 ) .
123 tha the we use var to ind the pos ex -
pec .
thi is to mak the not sim .
fig 123 : a top pag and doc pag fro the nav of wik .
we hav lab how we com eac com of the pag fro the out of the top mod alg .
vis the ele of a top mod the nav has two mai typ of pag : one for dis - ing dis top and ano for the doc .
the are als ove pag , whi ill the ove str - tur of the cor the are a lau poi for bro .
the pag dis the cor and the dis str - tur .
but thi is not suf als use the top mod inf to nd con bet the vis .
wit the con , a use can mov bet sum and doc - lev pre .
hen , in our vis eve ele on a pag lin a use to a new vie .
wit the lin , a use can eas tra the net of rel in a giv cor .
for exa , fro a top pag a use can lin to vie a spe doc .
thi doc mig lin to sev top , eac of whi the use can exp :
( son , yea , dea )
( god , cal , giv ) mos ( gro , mem , jew )
( war , for , arm ) we ill ano nav exa in fig 123
an adv of thi des is tha eve typ of rel - shi has a rep and an int .
thi ill the str of cor to a use and hel her nav tha str .
fur , any var may occ in mul vie all rel are man - to - man .
top pag top sum the cor .
in the out of an inf alg , the are pro dis ove the voc .
but top ten to be spa , so a goo rep is as a set of wor tha hav hig pro .
giv suc a set , use can oft con mea in a top mod ( cha et al .
for exa , one can int gle fro the thr wor ( lm , ser , sho ) ( fig 123 ) tha thi top is abo lm and tel .
we ill ex - amp top pag in fig 123
in the pag , the ter are rep as a lis of wor in the lef col , ord by the top - ter pro kv .
the cen col of the vie lis doc tha exh the top , ord by inf top pro dk .
doc - men tit lin to the cor doc pag .
we can see tha the lis of doc rel to ( sch , stu , uni ) ( fig 123 ) are tie to edu and aca : ( sch , stu , uni ) col uni
fin , rel top are als lis wit cor lin , all a use to exp the hig - lev top spa .
top sim is not inf dir wit lda , but can be com fro the top dis tha it dis .
rel top are sho in the rig col of the top pag by pai top dis sco
123 ( cid : 123 ) =12 ( iv ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) =12 ( jv ) |lo ( iv ) log ( jv ) |
whe the ind fun 123 ( x ) is den as 123 if x a and 123 oth .
thi is rel to the ave log odd rat of the pro of eac ter in the two top .
thi met nds top tha hav sim dis .
con wit the top fro fig 123 , thi met sco the fol top hig . ( son , yea , dea ) ( lm , ser , sho ) ( wor , boo , pub ) ( alb , ban , mus )
the ori top rel to lm and tel .
the re - lat top cov a spe of con fro oth for of med to hum rel and lif eve .
doc pag doc pag ren the ori cor - pus .
we sho the doc and the top tha it exh , ord by the top pro dk .
we als dis the top in a pie cha , sho the res pro wit the doc .
for exa , fig 123 ill tha
afu : d ( eq . 123 ) ass , ord , ord : dre , ord , ord : k ( eq . 123 ) rel , ord fig 123 : top ove fro a vis of wik ( lef ) , the new yor tim ( cen ) , and us fed cas ( rig ) .
all of the nav are onl ( see the imp and stu sec ) .
the jur doc art is a thi abo aca , a thi abo law , and a thi abo oth top .
eac ren of a top lin to its res pag .
fin , doc are ass wit sim doc - men .
doc sim is not inf dir wit lda , but is den by the top pro :
123 ( cid : 123 ) =12 ( ik ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) =12 ( jk ) |lo ( ik ) log ( jk ) | .
( 123 ) thi met say tha a doc is sim to oth doc - men tha exh a sim com of top .
ove pag ove pag are the ent poi to exp the cor .
in the sim of the pag , we ran the top by the rel pre in the cor and dis eac in a bar wit wid pro to the top pre sco pk : the sum of the top pro for a giv top ove all doc ,
exa of thi vie can be fou in fig 123
fro thi gur , we see tha man doc are rel to the top ( hou , pop , fem ) ; thi is con wit our obs of the cor , whi inc man wik art on ind cit , tow , and tow .
imp and stu
we pro an ope sou imp of the top mod vis .
the are thr ste in app our met to vis a cor : ( 123 ) run lda inf on the cor to obt pos exp of the lat var - abl ( 123 ) gen a dat and ( 123 ) cre the web pag to nav the cor .
any ope - sou lda pac can be use we use lda - c . 123 we imp the rem of the pip in pyt .
it can be fou at htt : / / cod . goo . com / p / tmv .
we cre thr exa of nav usi our vi - sua .
we ana 123 , 123 wik art wit a 123 - top lda mod ( htt : / / bit . ly / wik ) .
we ana - lyz 123 , 123 us fed cas wit a 123 - top mod ( htt : / / bit . ly / cas - dem ) .
we ana 123 , 123 new yor tim art wit a 123 - top mod ( htt : / / bit . ly / nyt - dem ) .
a pag fro eac of the thr dem can be see in fig 123
one wee aft we rel the sou cod , we rec lin to a nav of arx ( a lar arc of sci - ent pre ) tha was gen usi our cod it is at
pre use stu we con a pre use stu on sev ind , ask for qua fee - bac on the wik nav .
the rev wer pos , all not the val of pre the hig - lev str of a cor wit its low - lev con .
one rev fel it or - gan sim to how he thi .
six ind res tha the dis con - tio tha wou hav rem obs by usi wik tra .
for exa , one use exp art abo eco and dis cou wit ina or dea - tio pro of whi he had pre bee una .
