top mod , suc as lat dir all ( lda ) , can be use too for the sta ana of doc col and oth dis - cre dat .
the lda mod ass tha the wor of eac doc ari fro a mix of top , eac of whi is a dis ove the vo - cab .
a lim of lda is the ina to mod top cor eve tho , for exa , a doc abo gen is mor lik to als be abo dis tha x - ray ast .
thi lim ste fro the use of the dir dis to mod the var amo the top pro .
in thi pap we dev the cor top mod ( ctm ) , whe the top pro exh cor via the log nor dis ( 123 ) .
we der a mea - eld var inf al - gor for app pos inf in thi mod , whi is com - pli by the fac tha the log nor is not con to the mul - nom .
the ctm giv a bet t tha lda on a col of ocr art fro the jou sci .
fur , the ctm pro a nat - ura way of vis and exp thi and oth uns dat
the ava and use of uns his col of doc is rap gro - ing .
as one exa , jst ( www . jst . org ) is a not - for - pro org tha mai - tai a lar onl sch jou arc obt by run an opt cha rec - nit eng ove the ori pri jou .
jst ind the res tex and pro - vid onl acc to the sca ima of the ori con thr key sea .
thi pro an ext use ser to the sch com , wit the col com nea thr mil pub art in a var of eld .
the she siz of thi uns and noi arc nat sug opp for the use of sta mod .
for ins , a sch in a nar sub , sea for a par res art , wou cer be int to lea tha the top of tha art is hig cor wit ano top tha the res may not hav kno abo , and tha is not exp con in the art .
ale to the exi of thi new rel top , the res cou bro the col in a top - gui man to beg to inv con to a pre unr bod of wor .
sin the arc com mil of art spa cen of sch wor , aut ana is
sev sta mod hav rec bee dev for aut ext the top str of lar doc col .
in tec ter , a top mod is a gen pro mod tha use a sma num of dis ove a voc to des a doc col .
whe t fro dat , the dis oft cor to int not of top .
in thi wor , we bui upo the lat dir all ( lda ) ( 123 ) mod .
lda ass tha the wor of eac doc ari fro a mix of top .
the top are sha by all doc in the col the top pro are doc - spe and ran dra fro a dir dis .
lda all eac doc to exh mul top wit dif pro , and it can thu cap the het in gro dat tha exh mul lat pat .
rec wor has use lda in mor com doc mod ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , and in a var of set suc as ima pro ( 123 ) , col lte ( 123 ) , and the mod of seq dat and use pro ( 123 ) .
sim mod wer ind dev for dis sur dat ( 123 ) and pop gen ( 123 ) .
our goa in thi pap is to add a lim of the top mod pro to dat : the fai to dir mod cor bet top .
in man mos cor , it is nat to exp tha sub of the und lat top wil be hig cor .
in a cor of sci art , for ins , an art abo gen may be lik to als be abo hea and dis , but unl to als be abo x - ray ast .
for the lda mod , thi lim ste fro the ind ass imp in the dir dis on the top pro .
und a dir , the com of the pro vec are nea ind thi lea to the str and unr mod ass tha the pre of one top is not cor wit the pre of ano .
in thi pap we pre the cor top mod ( ctm ) .
the ctm use an alt - tiv , mor exi dis for the top pro tha all for cov str amo the com .
thi giv a mor rea mod of lat top str whe the pre of one lat top may be cor wit the pre of ano .
in the fol sec we dev the tec asp of thi mod , and the dem its pot for the app env abo .
we t the mod to a por of the jst arc of the jou sci .
we dem tha the mod giv a bet t tha lda , as mea by the acc of the pre dis ove hel out doc .
fur - the , we dem qua tha the cor top mod pro a nat way of vis and exp suc an uns col of tex dat .
123 the cor top mod
the key to the cor top mod we pro is the log nor dis ( 123 ) .
the log nor is a dis on the sim tha all for a gen pat of var bet the com by tra a mul nor ran var .
con the nat par of a k - dim mul dis :
p ( z | ) = exp ( t z a ( ) ) .
the ran var z can tak on k val it can be rep by a k - vec wit exa one com equ to one , den a val in ( 123 , .
the cum gen - ati fun of the dis is
a ( ) = log
the map bet the mea par ( i . e . , the sim ) and the nat par - ete is giv by
not tha thi is not the min exp fam rep of the mul bec mul val of can yie the sam mea par .
i = log i / k .
fig 123 : top : gra mod rep of the cor top mod .
the log nor dis , use to mod the lat top pro of a doc , can rep cor bet top tha are imp to cap usi a sin dir .
bot : exa den of the log nor on the 123 - sim .
fro lef : dia cov and non - mea , neg cor bet com 123 and 123 , pos cor bet com 123 and 123
the log nor dis ass tha is nor dis and the map to the sim wit the inv of the map giv in equ ( 123 ) ; tha is , f ( i ) = j exp j .
the log nor mod cor bet com of the sim ran var thr the cov mat of the nor dis .
the log nor was ori stu in the con of ana obs com dat suc as the pro of min in geo sam .
in thi wor , we ext its use to a hie mod whe it des the lat com of top ass wit eac doc .
let ( , ) be a k - dim mea and cov mat , and let top 123 : k be k mul ove a xed wor voc .
the cor top mod ass tha an n - wor doc ari fro the fol gen pro :
dra | ( , ) n ( , ) .
for n ( 123 ,
( a ) dra top ass zn | fro mul ( f ( ) ) .
( b ) dra wor wn | ( zn , 123 : k ) fro mul ( zn ) .
thi pro is ide to the gen pro of lda exc tha the top pro are dra fro a log nor rat tha a dir .
the mod is sho as a dir gra mod in fig 123
the ctm is mor exp tha lda .
the str ind ass imp by the dir in lda is not rea whe ana doc col , whe one may nd str cor bet top .
the cov mat of the log nor in the ctm is int to mod suc cor .
in sec 123 , we ill how the hig ord str giv by the cov can be use as an exp too for bet und and nav a lar cor of doc .
mor , mod cor can lea to bet pre dis .
in som set , suc as col lte ,
zd , nwd , nnd the goa is to pre uns ite con on a set of obs .
an lda mod wil pre wor bas on the lat top tha the obs sug , but the ctm has the abi to pre ite ass wit add top tha are cor wit the con pro top .
123 pos inf and par est
pos inf is the cen cha to usi the ctm .
the pos dis of the lat var con on a doc , p ( , z12 : n | w12 : n ) , is int to com onc con on som obs , the top ass z12 : n and log pro are dep .
we mak use of mea - eld var met to efc obt an app of thi pos dis .
in bri , the str emp by mea - eld var met is to for a fac dis of the lat var , par by fre var whi are cal the var - ati par .
the par are t so tha the kul - lei ( kl ) div bet the app and tru pos is sma .
for man pro thi opt pro is com man , whi sta met , suc as mar cha mon car , are imp .
the tra is tha var met do not com wit the sam the gua as sim met .
see ( 123 ) for a mod rev of var met for sta inf .
in gra mod com of con - exp fam pai and mix , the var inf alg can be aut der fro gen pri ( 123 , 123 ) .
in the ctm , how , the log nor is not con to the mul .
we wil the der a var inf alg by tak int acc the spe str and dis use by our mod .
we beg by usi jen ine to bou the log pro of a doc :
log p ( w12 : n | , , )
eq ( log p ( | , ) ) +pn
n=1 ( eq ( log p ( zn | ) ) + eq ( log p ( wn | zn , ) ) ) + h ( q ) , whe the exp is tak wit res to a var dis of the lat var - abl , and h ( q ) den the ent of tha dis .
we use a fac dis :
q ( 123 : k , z12 : n | 123 : k , 123
i=1 q ( i | i , 123
n=1 q ( zn | n ) .
123 : k , 123 : n ) =qk
the var dis of the dis var z12 : n are spe by the k - dim mul par 123 : n .
the var dis of the con var 123 : k are k ind uni gau ( i , i ) .
sin the var pa - ram are t usi a sin obs doc w12 : n , the is no adv in int - ing a non - dia var cov mat .
the non of the log nor lea to dif in com the exp log pro of a top ass :
eq ( log p ( zn | ) ) = eq
i=1 exp ( i ) ( cid : 123 ) i 123 ( pk
to pre the low bou on the log pro , we upp bou the log nor wit a tay exp ,
whe we hav int a new var par .
the exp eq ( exp ( i ) ) is the mea of a log nor dis wit mea and var obt fro the var par ( i , 123
i ) ; thu , eq ( exp ( i ) ) = exp ( i + 123
i / 123 ) for i ( 123 ,
i=1 eq ( exp ( i ) ) ) 123 + log ( ) ,
fig 123 : a por of the top gra lea fro 123 , 123 ocr art fro sci .
eac nod rep a top , and is lab wit the ve mos pro phr fro its dis ( phr are fou by the tur top met ( 123 ) ) .
the int rea can bro the ful mod at htt : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / lem / sci / .
giv a mod ( 123 : k , , ) and a doc w12 : n , the var inf alg op - tim equ ( 123 ) wit res to the var par ( 123 : k , 123 : k , 123 : n , ) .
we use coo asc , rep opt wit res to eac par whi hol the oth xed .
in var inf for lda , eac coo can be opt ana - lyt .
how , ite met are req for the ctm whe opt for i and i .
the det are giv in app a .
giv a col of doc , we car out par est in the cor top mod by att to max the lik of a cor of doc as a fun of the top 123 : k and the mul gau par ( , ) .
we use var exp - max ( em ) , whe we max the bou on the log pro of a col giv by sum equ ( 123 ) ove the doc .
in the e - ste , we max the bou wit res to the var par by per - for var inf for eac doc .
in the m - ste , we max the bou wit res to the mod par .
thi is max lik est of the top - ics and mul gau usi exp suf sta , whe the exp is tak wit res to the var dis com in the e - ste .
the e - ste and m - ste are rep unt the bou on the lik con .
in the exp rep bel , we run var inf unt the rel cha in the pro bou of equ ( 123 ) is les tha 123 , and run var em unt the rel cha in the lik bou is les tha 123
123 exa and emp res : mod sci
in ord to tes and ill the cor top mod , we est a 123 - top ctm on 123 , 123 sci art spa 123 to 123
we con a gra of the la - ten top and the con amo the by exa the mos pro wor fro eac top and the bet - top cor .
par of thi gra is ill in fig - ure 123
in thi sub , the are thr den con col of top : mat sci , geo , and cel bio .
fur , an est ctm can be use to ex - plo oth uns obs doc .
in fig 123 , we lis art tha are ass to the cog sci top and art tha are ass to bot the cog -
wil typ cyc cyc pro aci aci aci seq dis can bio man com dio mat yea ago ago cha atl rec ter pot ltp tra rec rel cal ca1 ira cyc tri atp tri gtp bra fig 123 : ( l ) the ave hel - out pro ctm sup mor top tha lda .
see gur at rig for the sta err of the dif .
( r ) the log odd rat of the hel - out pro .
pos num ind a bet t by the cor top mod .
nit sci and vis neu top .
the int rea is inv to vis htt : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / lem / sci / to int exp thi mod , in - clu the top , the con , and the art tha exh the .
we com the ctm to lda by tti a sma col of art to mod of var - ing num of top .
thi col con the 123 , 123 doc fro 123 we use a voc of 123 , 123 wor aft pru com fun wor and ter tha occ onc in the col .
usi ten - fol cro val , we com the log pro of the hel - out dat giv a mod est fro the rem dat .
a bet mod of the doc col wil ass hig pro to the hel out dat .
to avo com bou , we use imp sam to com the log pro of a doc whe the tte var dis is the pro .
fig 123 ill the ave hel out log pro for eac mod and the ave dif bet the .
the ctm pro a bet t tha lda and sup mor top the lik for lda pea nea 123 top whi the lik for the ctm pea clo to 123 top .
the mea and sta err of the dif in log - lik of the mod is sho at rig thi ind tha the ctm alw giv a bet t .
ano qua eva of the rel str of lda and the ctm is how wel the mod pre the rem wor aft obs a por of the doc .
sup - pos we obs wor w12 : p fro a doc and are int in whi mod pro a bet pre dis p ( w | w12 : p ) of the rem wor .
to com the dis - tri , we use per , whi can be tho of as the eff num of equ lik wor acc to the mod .
mat , the per of a wor dis - tio is den as the inv of the per - wor geo ave of the pro of the
i=p +12 p ( wi | , w12 : p )
d=1 ( ndp ) ,
whe den the mod par of an lda or ctm mod .
not tha low num den mor pre pow .
the plo in fig 123 com the pre per und lda and the ctm .
whe a
num of top log lik of top ( ctm ) l ( lda ) lll fig 123 : ( lef ) exp a col thr its top .
( rig ) pre per for par obs hel - out doc fro the 123 sci cor .
sma num of wor hav bee obs , the is les unc abo the rem wor und the ctm tha und lda per is red by nea 123 wor , or rou 123 .
the rea is tha aft see a few wor in one top , the ctm use top cor to inf tha wor in a rel top may als be pro .
in con , lda can pre the rem wor as wel unt a lar por of the doc as bee obs so tha all of its top are rep .
ack res sup in par by nsf gra iis - 123 and iis - 123 and by the dar cal pro .
