pic els , uch as ent let ion ( lda ) , can be ful ols for the cal sis of ent ons and her dis - ete ata .
the lda del mes hat the rds of ach ent ise rom a ure of ics , ach of ich is a ion ver the vo - ary .
a ion of lda is the ity to del pic ion ven ugh , for ple , a ent out ics is ore ely to lso be out ase han x - ray omy .
his ion ems rom the use of the let ion to del the ity ong the pic ons .
in his per we lop the ted pic del ( ctm ) , ere the pic ons bit ion via the tic mal ion ( 123 ) .
we ive a ean - eld nal nce al - thm for ate ior nce in his del , ich is com - ted by the act hat the tic mal is not ate to the lti - ial .
the ctm ves a ter t han lda on a ion of red les rom the nal nce .
ore , the ctm des a nat - ral way of ing and ing his and her red ata
the ity and use of red cal ons of nts is dly row - ing .
as one ple , tor ( www . tor . org ) is a not - for - rot ion hat ain - ins a rge ine rly nal ive ned by ing an cal ter cog - ion ine ver the nal ted als .
tor xes the ing ext and pro - des ine ess to the ned ges of the nal ent ugh ord rch .
his des an ely ful ice to the rly ity , ith the ion ing rly ree ion hed les in a ety of lds .
the eer ize of his red and isy ive lly sts ies for the use of cal ing .
for nce , a lar in a row ine , ing for a lar rch cle , uld nly be ted to arn hat the pic of hat cle is hly ted ith her pic hat the her may not ave own out , and hat is not tly ned in the cle .
ted to the nce of his new ted pic , the her uld wse the ion in a pic - ded ner to gin to ate ons to a sly zed ody of ork .
nce the ive ses ons of les ing ies of rly ork , ted sis is
ral cal els ave tly een ped for lly ing the cal ure of rge ent ons .
in cal rms , a pic del is a ive tic del hat ses a all ber of ons ver a ary to ibe a ent ion .
hen t rom ata , ese ons ten ond to ive ons of ity .
in his ork , we ild pon the ent let ion ( lda ) ( 123 ) del .
lda mes hat the rds of ach ent ise rom a ure of ics .
the ics are red by all nts in the on; the pic ons are ent - cic and mly awn rom a let ion .
lda ows ach ent to bit ple ics ith ent ons , and it can hus ure the ity in ped ata hat bit ple ent rns .
ent ork has sed lda in ore ted ent els ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , and in a ety of ngs uch as age ing ( 123 ) , ive ing ( 123 ) , and the ing of ial ata and ser les ( 123 ) .
lar els ere tly ped for ity vey ata ( 123 ) and ion ics ( 123 ) .
our oal in his per is to ess a ion of the pic els sed to ate : hey ail to tly del ion een ics .
in eed ext ora , it is ral to ect hat ets of the ing ent ics ill be hly ted .
in a pus of tic les , for nce , an cle out ics may be ely to lso be out lth and ase , but ely to lso be out x - ray omy .
for the lda del , his ion ems rom the nce ons cit in the let ion on the pic ons .
der a let , the nts of the ons tor are rly nt; his ads to the ong and tic ing ion hat the nce of one pic is not ted ith the nce of her .
in his per we ent the ted pic del ( ctm ) .
the ctm ses an rna - ive , ore ble ion for the pic ons hat ows for nce ure ong the nts .
his ves a ore tic del of ent pic ure ere the nce of one ent pic may be ted ith the nce of her .
in the ing ons we lop the cal cts of his del , and hen ate its ial for the ons ned ove .
we t the del to a ion of the tor ive of the nal nce .
we ate hat the del ves a ter t han lda , as red by the acy of the ive ons ver eld out nts .
fur - ore , we ate ely hat the ted pic del des a ral way of ing and ing uch an red ion of ual ata .
123 the ted pic del
the key to the ted pic del we ose is the tic mal ion ( 123 ) .
the tic mal is a ion on the lex hat ows for a ral ern of ity een the nts by ing a ate mal dom ble .
der the ral ion of a k - nal ial ion :
p ( z | ) = exp ( t z a ( ) ) .
the dom ble z can ake on k es; it can be ted by a k - tor ith tly one ent ual to one , ing a lue in ( 123 , .
the ant ner - ing ion of the ion is
a ( ) = log
the ing een the ean ion ( i . e . , the lex ) and the ral ram - ion is ven by
ice hat his is not the mal ial ily ion of the ial use ple ues of can eld the ame ean ter .
i = log i / k .
ure 123 : top : cal del ion of the ted pic del .
the tic mal ion , sed to del the ent pic ons of a ent , can ent ons een ics hat are ble to ure ing a gle let .
tom : ple ies of the tic mal on the 123 - lex .
rom eft : nal nce and ero - ean , ive ion een nts 123 and 123 , ive ion een nts 123 and 123
the tic mal ion mes hat is lly ted and hen ped to the lex ith the rse of the ing ven in ion ( 123 ) ; hat is , f ( i ) = j exp j .
the tic mal els ons een nts of the ial dom ble ugh the nce rix of the mal ion .
the tic mal was lly ied in the ext of ing ved nal ata uch as the ons of als in cal les .
in his ork , we end its use to a cal del ere it bes the ent ion of ics ted ith ach ent .
let ( , ) be a k - nal ean and nce rix , and let ics 123 : k be k als ver a xed ord ary .
the ted pic del mes hat an n - ord ent ses rom the ing ive ess :
raw | ( , ) n ( , ) .
for n ( 123 ,
( a ) raw pic ent zn | rom ult ( f ( ) ) .
( b ) raw ord wn | ( zn , 123 : k ) rom ult ( zn ) .
his ess is cal to the ive ess of lda ept hat the pic ons are awn rom a tic mal her han a let .
the del is own as a ted cal del in ure 123
the ctm is ore ive han lda .
the ong nce ion sed by the let in lda is not tic hen ing ent ons , ere one may nd ong ons een ics .
the nce rix of the tic mal in the ctm is ced to del uch ons .
in ion 123 , we ate how the her der ure ven by the nce can be sed as an ory ool for ter ing and ing a rge pus of nts .
ver , ing ion can ead to ter ive ons .
in ome ngs , uch as ive ing ,
zd , nwd , kdk the oal is to ict een ems nal on a set of ons .
an lda del ill ict rds sed on the ent ics hat the ons est , but the ctm has the ity to ict ems ted ith nal ics hat are ted ith the lly ble ics .
123 ior nce and ter ion
ior nce is the ral nge to ing the ctm .
the ior ion of the ent les nal on a ent , p ( , 123 : n | 123 : n ) , is ble to te; nce ned on ome ons , the pic nts 123 : n and log ons are ent .
we ake use of ean - eld nal ods to tly ain an ion of his ior ion .
in ief , the egy yed by ean - eld nal ods is to orm a zed ion of the ent les , zed by ree les ich are led the ari - nal ers .
ese ers are t so hat the ack - ler ( kl ) nce een the ate and rue ior is all .
for any ems his ion lem is lly ble , ile ard ods , uch as kov ain nte rlo , are cal .
the off is hat nal ods do not ome ith the ame cal ees as ion ods .
see ( 123 ) for a ern iew of nal ods for cal nce .
in cal els sed of ate - ial ily irs and res , the nal nce thm can be lly ved rom ral les ( 123 , 123 ) .
in the ctm , ver , the tic mal is not ate to the ial .
we ill ore ive a nal nce thm by ing nto unt the ial ure and ons sed by our del .
we gin by ing ens ity to und the log ity of a ent :
log p ( 123 : n | , , )
eq ( log p ( | , ) ) +pn
123 ( eq ( log p ( zn | ) ) + eq ( log p ( wn | zn , ) ) ) + h ( q ) , ere the ion is ken ith ect to a nal ion of the ent ari - les , and h ( q ) tes the opy of hat ion .
we use a zed ion :
q ( 123 : k , 123 : n | 123 : k , 123
123 q ( i | i , 123
123 q ( zn | n ) .
123 : k , 123 : n ) =qk
the nal ons of the ete les 123 : n are ied by the k - nal ial ers 123 : n .
the nal ion of the ous les 123 : k are k ent ate ans ( i , i ) .
nce the nal pa - ers are t ing a gle ved ent 123 : n , ere is no age in duc - ing a non - nal nal nce rix .
the acy of the tic mal ads to lty in ing the ted log ity of a pic ent :
eq ( log p ( zn | ) ) = eq
123 exp ( i ) ( cid : 123 ) i 123 ( pk
to rve the wer und on the log ity , we per und the log zer ith a lor ion ,
ere we ave ced a new nal ter .
the ion eq ( exp ( i ) ) is the ean of a log mal ion ith ean and nce ned rom the nal ers ( i , 123
i ) ; hus , eq ( exp ( i ) ) = exp ( i + 123
i / 123 ) for i ( 123 ,
123 eq ( exp ( i ) ) ) 123 + log ( ) ,
ure 123 : a ion of the pic aph ned rom 123 , 123 ocr les rom nce .
ach ode nts a pic , and is led ith the ve ost ble ses rom its ion ( ses are und by the rbo ics hod ( 123 ) ) .
the ted der can wse the ull del at ttp : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / mur / nce / .
ven a del ( 123 : k , , ) and a ent 123 : n , the nal nce thm op - zes ion ( 123 ) ith ect to the nal ers ( 123 : k , 123 : k , 123 : n , ) .
we use ate ent , dly ing ith ect to ach ter ile ing the ers xed .
in nal nce for lda , ach ate can be zed ana - lly .
ver , ive ods are red for the ctm hen ing for i and i .
the ils are ven in dix a .
ven a ion of nts , we rry out ter ion in the ted pic del by ing to ize the ood of a pus of nts as a ion of the ics 123 : k and the ate ian ers ( , ) .
we use nal ion - ion ( em ) , ere we ize the und on the log ity of a ion ven by ing ion ( 123 ) ver the nts .
in the e - tep , we ize the und ith ect to the nal ers by per - ing nal nce for ach ent .
in the m - tep , we ize the und ith ect to the del ers .
his is mum ood ion of the top - ics and ate ian ing ted ent ics , ere the ion is ken ith ect to the nal ons ted in the e - tep .
the e - tep and m - tep are ted til the und on the ood ges .
in the nts ted low , we run nal nce til the ive nge in the ity und of ion ( 123 ) is ess han 123 , and run nal em til the ive nge in the ood und is ess han 123
123 les and cal lts : ing nce
in der to est and ate the ted pic del , we ted a 123 - pic ctm on 123 , 123 nce les ing 123 to 123
we ted a aph of the la - ent ics and the ons ong hem by ing the ost ble rds rom ach pic and the een - pic ons .
art of his aph is ted in fig - ure 123
in his aph , ere are ree ely ted ons of ics : ial nce , ogy , and ell ogy .
ore , an ted ctm can be sed to ex - ore ise red ved nts .
in ure 123 , we ist les hat are ned to the ive nce pic and les hat are ned to oth the cog -
ild ell ell cle ino ino ino cid ers ast tal per pic bon nic ion ars ars ate rth sil ong erm ion tic mda 123 lar lar 123 lyl ine ate ine ate man ing ure 123 : ( l ) the age eld - out ty; ctm rts ore ics han lda .
see ure at ght for the ard ror of the nce .
( r ) the log dds tio of the eld - out ity .
ive ers ate a ter t by the ted pic del .
ive nce and ual nce ics .
the ted der is ted to sit ttp : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / mur / nce / to ely ore his del , in - ing the ics , eir ons , and the les hat bit hem .
we red the ctm to lda by ing a ler ion of les to els of ary - ing ers of ics .
his ion ins the 123 , 123 nts rom 23; we sed a ary of 123 , 123 rds ter ing mon ion rds and rms hat cur nce in the ion .
ing ten - old oss ion , we ted the log ity of the eld - out ata ven a del ted rom the ing ata .
a ter del of the ent ion ill ign her ity to the eld out ata .
to oid ing nds , we sed nce ing to ute the log ity of a ent ere the ted nal ion is the sal .
ure 123 tes the age eld out log ity for ach del and the age nce een hem .
the ctm des a ter t han lda and rts ore cs; the ood for lda aks ear 123 ics ile the ood for the ctm aks ose to 123 ics .
the ans and ard ors of the nce in log - ood of the els is own at ht; his tes hat the ctm ays ves a ter t .
her ive ion of the ive ths of lda and the ctm is how ell the els ict the ing rds ter ing a ion of the ent .
sup - ose we rve rds 123 : p rom a ent and are ted in ich del des a ter ive ion p ( w | 123 : p ) of the ing rds .
to are ese dis - ons , we use ity , ich can be ght of as the ive ber of lly ely rds ing to the del .
lly , the ity of a ord ibu - ion is ned as the rse of the per - ord ric age of the ity of the
i=p 123 p ( wi | , 123 : p )
123 ( ndp ) ,
ere tes the del ers of an lda or ctm del .
ote hat wer ers ote ore ive wer .
the lot in ure 123 res the ive ity der lda and the ctm .
hen a
ber of out log ber of csl ( ctm ) l ( lda ) lll ure 123 : ( eft ) ing a ion ugh its ics .
( ght ) ive ity for lly ved eld - out nts rom the 123 nce pus .
all ber of rds ave een ved , ere is ess nty out the ing rds der the ctm han der the ity is ced by rly 123 rds , or hly 23% .
the son is hat ter ing a few rds in one pic , the ctm ses pic ion to fer hat rds in a ted pic may lso be ble .
in ast , lda not ict the ing rds as ell til a rge ion of the ent as een ved so hat all of its ics are ted .
nts rch ted in art by nsf nts iis - 123 and iis - 123 and by the rpa alo ect .
