tic pic els are a lar ool for the sed sis of ext , ing oth a ive del of ure ext and a ent pic ion of the pus .
ers lly ume hat the ent ace is lly ful .
it is sed to eck els , ize the pus , and ide plo - ion of its nts .
ver , her the ent ace is ble is in eed of ive ion .
in his per , we ent new ive ods for ing tic ing in red ics .
we ack ese res ith rge - ale ser ies , ing hat hey ure cts of the del hat are ted by ous res of del ity sed on eld - out ood .
gly , pic els ich orm ter on eld - out ood may fer ess lly ful ics .
tic pic els ave ome lar ols for the sed sis of rge ent ons ( 123 ) .
ese els sit a set of ent ics , ial ons ver rds , and ume hat ach ent can be bed as a ure of ese ics .
ith hms for ast ate ior nce , we can use pic els to ver oth the ics and an ent of ics to nts rom a ion of nts .
( see ure 123 ) ese ing ons are ful in the nse hat , lly , hey ead to ood els of nts .
hey lso lly ead to lly ful ons of hem : ics end to ace igh ity on rds hat ent pts , and nts are ted as ons of ose pts .
ing the red ics is ive for del ion and for ing hat the del is ing the ers ons out the nts .
ver , ing a man - ble ion of the xts can be a oal in elf , as hen ing or ing a rge ion of nts .
in his rit , uch of the ure ing ent pic els nts les of ics and les of ent - pic nts to elp and a els ics .
ics lso can elp ers ver new ent via pus ion ( 123 ) .
the ion of ese ics ves , her tly or tly , as a ive ion of the ent ace , but ere is no cit ive ion of hem .
ead , ers loy a ety of ics of del t , uch as ity or eld - out ood .
uch res are ful for ing the ive del , but do not ess the ore ory als of pic ing .
ork one ile at ton ity .
( b ) ent nts to ics
ure 123 : the ent ace of a pic del sts of ics , ich are ons ver rds , and a ion ver ese ics for ach ent .
on the eft are ree ics rom a fty pic lda del ned on les rom the new ork mes .
on the ght is a lex ing the ion ver ics ted ith ven nts .
the ine rom ach nts tle ows the nts ion in the
in his per , we ent a hod for ing the ity of a pic del .
we ise two man ion sks to tly ate oth the ity of the ics red by the del and how ell the del gns ics to nts .
the rst , ord ion , res how lly ive the ics red by a del are and sts her ics ond to ral ngs for ans .
the ond , pic ion , res how ell a pic els ion of a ent as a ure of ics ees ith man ons of ics ith a ent .
we ort the lts of a rge - ale man udy of ese sks , ing oth ing ons and ber of ics .
we how hat ese sks ure cts of pic els not red by ing ics els ich eve ter ive ity ten ave ess ble ent ces .
123 pic els and eir ons
pic els sit hat ach ent is sed as a ure of ics .
ese pic ons are awn nce per ent , and the ics are red oss the pus .
in his per we ill der pic els hat ake ent ons out the pic ons .
tic ent tic ing ( lsi ) ( 123 ) kes no ons out the ent pic ion , ing it as a nct ter for ach ent .
ent let ion ( lda ) ( 123 ) and the ted pic del ( ctm ) ( 123 ) eat ach nts pic ent as a ial dom ble awn rom a ric let and tic mal ior , ely .
ile the els ake ent ons , nce hms for all of ese pic els ild the ame ype of ent ace : a ion of ics for the pus and a ion of pic ons for ach of its nts .
ile his mon ent ace has red for ver two des , its ity ins red .
pay no ion to the ent ace ind the del
ugh we cus on tic pic els , the eld gan in est ith ent tic sis ( lsa ) ( 123 ) .
lsa , the sis of sis tic ion , ses ear bra to com - ose a pus nto its ent mes .
use lsa ted in the ogy ity , rly ons sed on ing man nce or nts ing lsa : ing nce on zed sts , ing nse ons , and ing ons out ymy ( ese lts are wed in ( 123 ) ) .
in ion val , ere lsa is own as ent tic ing ( lsi ) ( 123 ) , it is ble to tch ies to nts , tch rts to eas of ise , and ven ize oss ges ven a lel pus ( 123 ) .
ter , ogy , tem , ice , ite , one , net , lay , lm , vie , ter , ion , tar , tor , ell , ale , ore , uct , ess , ing , ket , pic pic pic get the leg , ust oad the vie lex ded as pin to the ape of ema , med at the ick of a sea ful rew uts ets ere its uth ock des : a ter eal for ors isn ' t the ree big net als gin to ish ong ves as ing red ght , een ght : a 123 - one l . e . d .
to ify pic pic pic 123 the nce to ook der the ood of ese els has ted ven as els ave ved rom ogy nto ter nce ith the ent of lsi and lda .
els her use res sed on eld - out ood ( 123 , 123 ) or an nal ask hat is ent of the pic ace uch as ent ion ( 123 ) or ion val ( 123 ) .
his is rue ven for els red to ave lly ent ics ( 123 ) .
for els hat use eld - out ood , ach et al .
( 123 ) ide a ary of ion ues .
ese ics row ols rom the age ing ity to ure how ell the ion ned rom a pus ies to een nts .
ese ics ize ily and low for ood - sed ons of ent els or ion of del ers uch as the ber of ics .
ver , his ity mes at a ost : ese ods nly ure the ity of ns; the nal ion of the els is red .
ths et al .
( 123 ) is an ant ion to the end of ing nal sks or eld - out ood .
hey wed hat the ber of ics a ord ars in tes ith how any nct ses it has and ced any of the ics sed in the cal ity sed on man nce .
ver , his is ill not a eep sis of the ure of the ent ace , as it oes not ine the ure of the ics ves .
we ize hat not ing the nal ion of pic els is at dds ith eir ion and ent .
ost pic ing ers lay ive nts of the red ics or ply ert hat ics are lly ful , and ers use ics for del ing ing the ent ess .
all et al .
( 123 ) , for ple , sed ent ics med lly ant to ore mes in the tic ure .
ven in ion nts , ics are ted as mes : exa ( ttp : / / exa . nfo ) , a rly ion rch ine , ays the ics ted ith nts .
his cit ion hat ics ave tic ing for ers has ven ted ork hat pts to lly bel ics ( 123 ) .
our oal is to ure the ess of ing pic els oss ber of ics and ing
123 ing man nts to ine the ics
ugh ere ars to be a ing ion hat the ent ace red by pic els is ful and ful , ing uch ons is ult use ing ics is an sed ess .
ere is no old - ard ist of ics to are nst for ery pus .
hus , ing the ent ace of pic els res us to her ous ata .
in his ion we ose two sks hat ate a mal ing ere ans can ate the two nts of the ent ace of a pic del .
the rst ent is the eup of the ics .
we lop a ask to ate her a pic has man - ble tic nce .
his ask is led ord ion , as cts ust ify a ous ord ted nto a pic .
the ond ask sts her the ion een a ent and a pic kes nse .
we all his ask pic ion , as the ect ust ify a pic hat was not ted ith the ent by the
123 ord ion
to ure the nce of ese ics , we lop the ord ion sk; his ask ves ing the ent ace ted in ure 123 ( a ) .
in the ord ion ask , the ect is ted ith six mly red rds .
the ask of the ser is to nd the ord ich is out of ace or oes not ong ith the ers , i . e . , the der .
ure 123 ows how his ask is ted to ers .
hen the set of rds nus the der kes nse her , hen the ect uld ily ify the der .
for ple , ost ple ily ify ple as the ing ord in the set ( dog , cat , rse , ple , pig , cow ) use the ing rds , ( dog , cat , rse , pig , cow ) ake nse her hey are all als .
for the set ( car , her , pus , ile , lue , ire ) , ich cks uch nce , ing the der is ult .
ple ill lly ose an der at dom , ing a pic ith oor nce .
in der to uct a set to ent to the ect , we rst ect at dom a pic rom the del .
we hen ect the ve ost ble rds rom hat pic .
in ion to ese rds , an der
ure 123 : ots of our two man sks .
in the ord ion ask ( eft ) , cts are ted ith a set of rds and ked to ect the ord ich oes not ong ith the ers .
in the pic ion ask ( ght ) , ers are ven a nts tle and the rst few ces of the ent .
the ers ust ect ich of the our ups of rds oes not ong .
ord is ted at dom rom a ool of rds ith low ity in the ent pic ( to uce the ity hat the der mes rom the ame tic oup ) but igh ity in ome her pic ( to ure hat the der is not ted ght due ely to ity ) .
all six rds are hen fed and ted to the ect .
123 pic ion
the pic ion ask sts her a pic els ion of nts nto a ure of ics ees ith man nts of the nts ent .
his ows for ion of the ent ace ted by ure 123 ( b ) .
in his ask , cts are own the tle and a pet rom a ent .
ong ith the ent hey are ted ith our ics ( ach pic is ted by the ght est - ity rds hin hat pic ) .
ree of ose ics are the est ity ics ned to hat ent .
the ing der pic is sen mly rom the her low - ity ics in the del .
the ect is ted to ose the pic ich oes not ong ith the ent .
as ore , if the pic ent to nts ere ant and ive , we uld ect hat cts uld ect the pic we mly ded as the pic hat did not ong .
the ion of his ask des a ral way to yze the ity of ent - pic nts und by the pic els .
ach of the ree els we t tly gns pic hts to ach nt; his ask nes her ans ake the ame ion .
due to ime nts , cts do not see the ire nt; hey nly see the tle and rst few ces .
ile his is ess ion han is ble to the thm , ans are ood at ing rom ted ata , and our ora ( dia and per ) are red to ide an iew of the cle in the rst few ces .
the tup of his ask is lso ful in ons ere one ght be ted to use ics for pus ion .
if ics are sed to nd ant nts , for ple , ers ill ely be ded ith lar ews of the nts ( e . g .
tle and act , as in exa ) .
for oth the ord ion and pic ion sks , cts ere ted to cus on the ngs of rds , not eir tic age or phy .
we lso ted cts ith the ion of ing the ect wer ter hey ted eir own nse , to ake the sks ore ing .
ere the ect wer was ned by the del ich ted the ata , ted as if it ere the nse of her ser .
at the ame ime , cts ere ged to ase eir ses on eir own ons , not to try to tch her cts ( the els ) ons .
in all nts , we ave und hat his tra ion did not ias cts ses .
123 tal lts
to are ata for man cts to iew , we t ree ent pic els on two ora .
in his ion , we ibe how we red the ora , t the els , and ted the sks bed in ion 123
we hen ent the lts of ese man als and are hem to ics lly sed to ate pic els .
ord pic ion 123 els and ora
in his ork we udy ree pic els : tic ent tic ing ( lsi ) ( 123 ) , ent let ion ( lda ) ( 123 ) , and the ted pic del ( ctm ) ( 123 ) , ich are all xed hip els ( 123 ) .
the ber of ent ics , k , is a ree ter in ach of the ls; ere we ore his ith k = 123 , 123 and 123
the ing ers k , the pic ial ion for pic k; and d , the pic ure ons for ent d are red rom ata .
the ree els fer in how ese ent ers are red .
lsi in lsi , the pic ure ons d are a ter for ach ent .
hus , lsi is not a lly ive del , and the ber of ers ows rly ith the ber of nts .
we t lsi ing the em thm ( 123 ) but ize sis tes of d ing udo - unt ing , = 123
lda lda is a lly ive del of nts ere the ure ons d are ted as a dom ble awn rom a let ior ion .
use the ect ion of the ior is ble , we loy nal nce ( 123 ) and set the ric let ior ter , , to 123
ctm in lda , the nts of d are rly ent ( i . e . , d is lly ral ) .
ctm ows for a her nce ure een pic ons by ing a tic mal ior ver the pic ure ons d .
for ach pic , k , a eal is awn rom a mal ion and ted .
his set of k non - ive ers are hen zed to eld d .
ere , we ain the ctm ing nal nce ( 123 ) .
we ain ach del on two ora .
for ach pus , we ply a art of ech ger ( 123 ) and ove all ens ged as per uns ( his was for the net of the man ts; ess in rly nts red too uch dic dge ) .
top rds ( 123 ) and rms ing in wer han ve nts are lso ved .
the two ora we use are 123 ) a ion of 123 les rom the new ork mes rom the ars 123 to 123 ith a ary ize of 123 que pes and und one ion ens and 123 ) a ple of 123 les rom dia ( ttp : / / www . dia . org ) ith a ary ize of 123 que pes and ree ion ens .
123 ion ing nal ive res
ere are ral ics nly sed to ate pic els in the ure ( 123 ) .
any of ese ics are ive cs; hat is , hey ure the els ity to ict a est set of een nts ter ing ned its ers rom a ing set .
in his ork , we set ide 23% of the nts in ach pus as a est set and ain on the ing 23% of nts .
we hen ute ive ank and ive log ood .
to ure ncy of ion oss ent els , we low teh et al . s ( 123 ) ion of the ive ood p ( ain ) ing p ( ain ) p ( d|d ) , ere d is a int ate of the ior pic ons for ent d .
for lsi d is the map te; for lda and ctm d is the ean of the nal ior .
ith his ion , we can ask hat rds the del ves ill be in the ent and are it ith the nts ual ion .
ven ent wd , we rst ate d and hen for ery ord in the ary , we ute z p ( w|z ) p ( z|d ) .
hen we ute the age ank for the rms hat lly
p ( w|d ) = ( cid : 123 )
red in ent wd ( we low the ion hat wer ank is ter ) .
the age ord ood and age ank oss all nts in our est set are own in ble 123
ese lts are ent ith the ues ted in the ure ( 123 , 123 ) ; in ost ses ctm rms est , wed by lda .
123 ing man ons
the sks bed in ion 123 ere red on zon cal urk ( ttp : / / www . urk . com ) , ich ows ers ( our ool of ive cts ) to orm all obs for a fee ugh a web ace .
no zed ing or dge is lly ted of the ers .
zon cal urk has een lly sed in the ast to lop old - ard ata for ral age ing ( 123 ) and to bel ges ( 123 ) .
for oth the ord ion and pic ion
ble 123 : two ive ics : ive log ood / ive ank .
ent ith ues ted in the ure , ctm lly rms the est , wed by lda , hen lsi .
the old ers ate the est nce in ach row .
new ork mes
- 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123
- 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123
- 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123 - 123 / 123
ure 123 : the del ion ( ion 123 ) for the ree els on two ora .
her is ter .
gly , ugh ctm lly ves a ter ive ood han the her els ( ble 123 ) , the ics it ers are rst hen ted nst man nts .
sks , we ted ach ker ith obs ing ten of the sks bed in ion 123
ach job was med by 123 ate ers , and ers ere aid een 123 123 per job .
ord ion as bed in ion 123 , the ord ion ask res how ell the red ics tch man pts ( ing del ion , i . e . , how ell the ers ted by the cts ond to ose ted nto nes und by the pic del ) .
k be the dex of the ing ord ong the rds ted rom the kth pic red by del m .
her let im k , s be the der ted by ect s on the set of rds ted rom the kth pic red by del m and let s ote the ber of cts .
we ene del ion by the ion of cts ing ith the del ,
k , s = m
ure 123 ows ots of the ion for the ree els on the two ora .
in ost ses lda rms est .
ugh ctm ves ter ive lts on eld - out ood , it oes not orm as ell on man ons .
his may be use ctm nds ons een ics and ons hin ics are ing rs; the der for one pic ght be ted rom her hly ted pic .
the nce of lsi des ith ger ers of ics , ing hat ing ( 123 ) ght ect ity as ell as ive wer .
ure 123 ( eft ) ows les of ics ith igh and low del ons rom the ny mes ata t ith lda ing 123 ics .
in the ple ith igh ion , the pic rds all tly ess a ing eme .
for the low ion ple , xis did not t in ith the her cal rds in the pic , as 23% of cts ose xis as the der .
the hip een del ion , mpm k , and the els ate of the ood of the ing ord in ure 123 ( top row ) is ing .
the est ity did not ave the est ty; in act , the end was the ite .
his sts hat as ics ome ore ne - ned in els ith ger ber of ics , hey are ess ful for ans .
the ard
del 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 123 123 new ork dia ure 123 : a ram of the del ons on the new ork mes pus ( eft ) and pic log dds on the dia pus ( ght ) ted for the fty pic lda del .
on the eft , ple ics are own for ral ns; the ics in ins ith her del ion nce a ore ent eme .
on the ght , ple ent les are own for ral ns; nts ith her pic log dds can be ore ily sed as a ure of ics .
ure 123 : a ter lot of del ion ( top row ) and pic log dds ( tom row ) vs .
ive log ood .
ach int is red by del and zed ing to the ber of ics sed to t the del .
ach del is ied by a ion ine .
ing ood oes not ase the ent een man cts and the del for her ask ( as own by the ard - ing ion nes ) .
ing end nes in ure 123 ing hat the els are ten ing ved ood for the del ion wed a ive ion ( ans = 123 ged oss all els , ora , and ics ) ith the ber of ses in net of the rds yed to the cts ( 123 ) and a ght ive ion ( = 123 ) ith the age ise ang - ath ity of 123 ( 123 ) .
pic ion in ion 123 , we ced the pic ion ask to ure how ell a pic del gns ics to nts .
we ene the pic log dds as a ive ure of the ent een the del and man nts on his ask .
let m d ote del ms int ate of the pic ons tor ted ith ent d ( as bed in ion 123 ) .
d , s ( 123 .
k ) be the ing pic ted by ect s for ent d on del her , let jm m and let jm d , ote the rue der , i . e . , the one ted by the del .
we ene the pic log dds as the log tio of the ity ass ned to the rue der to the ity ass
rds out ies in net ere ed; emy was led by ing the mum ver all ses of rds .
to dle rds in the ame set ( e . g .
ght and tle ) , the ity ion was ped at 123 .
del ber of 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . pic log ber of nts ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 ! 123 . ohn ncy oft ndy ive log 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . new ork 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . 123 . del pic log ber of 123 ure 123 : the pic log dds ( ion 123 ) for the ree els on two ora .
her is ter .
ugh ctm lly ves a ter ive ood han the her els ( ble 123 ) , the ics it ers are rst hen ted nst man nts .
d = ( ( cid : 123 )
s log m
d , log m
ned to the der ted by the ect ,
d , the ter the nce een the nts of the del d is 123
his is ved hen the cts ose
the her the lue of lom and the cts .
the per und on lom ers ith a ure ion no her han the rue ers .
ure 123 ows ots of the pic log dds for the ree els .
as ith del ion , lda and lsi lly orm ctm .
ain , his end uns ter to tms ior nce on ive ood .
a ram of the tlo of ual dia nts is ven in ure 123 ( ght ) for the fty - pic lda del .
nts out ery cic , ous pts , uch as ndy hop , ave igh tlo use it is asy for oth ans and the del to ign the ent to a lar pic .
hen nts ess ple ate ics , man nts rge rom ose of the del .
at the low end of the ale is the cle ook ich hes on rse eas uch as ory , nce , and rce .
it is ult for lda to pin own cic mes in his cle ich tch man ons .
ure 123 ( tom row ) ows hat , as ith del ion , ing ive ood oes not ply ved pic log dds res .
ile the pic log dds are rly ant oss all ers of ics for lda and lsi , for ctm pic log dds and ive ood are ely ted , ing the ing ion hat her ive ods do not ead to ved del ity .
we ted the rst ion of the med nce and nce of pic els ing man nts .
for ree pic els , we ted hat nal ics do not ure her ics are ent or not .
nal ics are , eed , ely ted ith the res of pic ity ped in his per .
our res ble new rms of del ion and est hat ers ing pic els uld hus cus on ons hat end on eal - rld ask nce her han ing ood - sed res .
in a ore ive ein , his ork tes the use of ics for pus ion and ion val .
ans ate the tic nce of ics and can ate the ame nts ith a pic hat a pic del oes .
an ing ity is the ent of els hat tly eek to ize the res we lop ere her by ing man nts nto the del - ing ork or ing a nal oxy hat tes man nts .
vid m .
lei is ted by onr 123 - 123 , nsf eer 123 and nts rom gle and oft .
we uld lso ike to ank dan son for his ful nts .
