ing rge ons of nts is an por - ant lem for any eas of nce , try , and ure .
tic pic ing ers a ing ion .
pic ing is an sed ine ing hod hat rns the ing mes in a rge ion of ise zed nts .
his red ure zes and zes the nts .
ver , pic els are igh - vel sta - cal lsa ser ust ize cal tri - ons to and and ore eir lts .
in his per , we ent a hod for ing pic mod - els .
our hod tes a tor of the nts , ing ers to ore the den ure hat a pic del ers .
ese ing ces eal ful rns in a ion , ing end - ers ore and and its nts in new ays .
we ide pen rce are of our hod .
ing and ing rge ons of ocu - nts has ome an ant ity in any res .
ver , any ent ons are not tly or - zed and ing hem by and is cal .
we eed ted ays to ver and ize the ure of a ion in der to ore ily ore its nts .
tic pic ing is a set of ine ing ols hat may ide a ion ( lei and rty 123 ) .
pic ing hms ver a den tic ruc - ure in a ion of ts; hey nd ent mes and ent ach ent as a ion of mes .
ver , pic els are igh - vel cal ols .
a ser ust ize cal ons to and and ore eir ts; the raw put of the del is not ugh to ate an ily red pus .
we ose a hod for ing a ted pic del to ize , ize , ize , and act ith a pus .
ith our hod , ers can ore the pus , ing be - een igh vel red ies ( the ics ) and the nts ves , as ure 123 tes .
our ign is red und the dea hat the del oth zes and zes the ion .
our hod ans - tes ese ons nto a ual tem for ing a ion , but ing his ure is not ugh .
the red ure ces een ics and les , and een les and ich ead to ons in the ion .
ght c ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ion for the ent of ial nce ( www . aai . org ) .
all hts ved .
hus , we ave ree ain als in ing the ual - ion : ize the pus for the er; eal the ela - ips een the ent and es; and , eal the ips oss ent .
we aim to ent ese in a ays hat are ble and ful to a rum of ers , not ust ine ing rts .
ral ons to the lem of ing rge doc - ent ora ude lar - sed ion ( hen et al .
123 ) , ver ( vre , ler , and ell 123 ) , and las ( cao et al .
ese ons elp ers and the pus as a ole , but do not ble ion of ual nts .
our ion pro - des oth a igh - vel ary of the pus and nks be - een the ary and ual nts .
ous pic ing rch has sed on ing new pic els and ing hms for ing hem .
ers ave lly sed ers to ate del hms ( man et al .
23; son et al .
23; ner et al .
ese ers ize ics , giv - ing tle ion to nts .
her , hey ude tle ual ion , ing tly on ers to vey
we ent a way of ing pic els to elp arn out and ver ems in a pus .
our tor nts the put of a pic del in an ace hat tes a ven pus to non - cal ers .
tic pic els
we iew pic ing , ing on ent let al - ion ( lda ) ( lei , ng , and dan 123 ) , ich is one of the est tic pic els .
lda ses a ion of nts nto sed ity dis - ons ver and nts ach ent ith a ( ted ) set of the ics .
hen t to a set of doc - nts , the ics are ble as mes in the col - ion , and the ent ons ate ich mes ach ent is out .
hus , the ned ics ize the ion , and the ent ons ize the pus nto ing ups .
lda is a cal del of a ion of xts .
hid - den dom les ode its tic ure .
the as - ons lda kes can be ted by its tic ive ess , the ary ess by ich the col -
ure 123 : ing dia ith a pic del .
ing in the per eft , we see a set of ics , ach of ich is a eme red by a pic ing thm .
we ick on a pic out lm and ion .
we ose a ent ted ith his pic , ich is the cle out lm tor ley ick .
the age out his cle des its ent and the ics hat it is out .
we ore a ted pic out phy and ogy , and lly iew a ted cle out ism .
his ing the mes and how the nts are zed ing to mis ted by ing a pic ing thm on the raw ext of dia and ing its put .
his tor can be und at ttp : / / bit . ly / 123
for k ics , ose ach pic ion k .
( ach k is a ion ver the ary . )
for ach ent in the ion : ( a ) ose a ion ver ics d .
( the ble d is a ion ver k nts . )
( b ) for ach ord in the ent
ose a pic ent zn rom d .
( ach zn is a ber rom 123 to k . )
ose a ord wn rom the pic ion zn .
( ion zn cts the nth pic rom tep 123 )
ice hat the ame set of ics ( 123 , .
, k ) is sed for ery ent , but hat ach ent its ose ics ith ent ons d .
his res ero - ity in nts : lda can del hat ome les are out rts and ess , ers are out rts and lth , and hat the pic of rts is lar in ach .
in ics , his is own as a xed hip del , ere ach ata int its ple nts .
ven a set of nts , the ral lem for lda is ior nce of the les , or ing the den tic ure hat est ins an ved ion of nts .
his is kin to ing the ive ess to nd the ics , pic ons , and pic nts hat est ain the ved doc - nts .
ers ave ped ral hms for lda nce , ing kov ain nte rlo sam - ing ( ers and ths 123 ) and ion - sed nal nce ( lei , ng , and dan 123 ) .
ese al - hms ake a ion of nts as put and urn how the den pic les ose it .
in a set of
, k ) and a ion of ach ent of the ion ing to ose ics ( 123 , .
, d ) . 123 one of the ain ons of pic els is for ory ata sis , hat is , to elp wse , and , and mma - ize ise red ons his is the ica - ion hat tes our ork .
ing a pic del
our als are to use the pic del to ize the cor - pus , eal the ips een nts and the dis - red ary , and eal the ips een the nts ves .
we ied our hod to 123 , 123 dia les , ich we ill use as a ing ple .
our ion ses oth the ved ata rom a cor - pus and the red pic del les . 123 the pic del les are the ics k , ach of ich is a ion ver a ary , and the pic ons d , one for ach ent and ach of ich is a ion ver the ics .
we use ple ews to ate his lex ruc - ure and ted a sic tor hat lly nts a cor - pus ugh the ens of an lda sis .
in his ion , we ain our ign ces .
hat the ics are ble is an cal ng; the ame pic del is ive .
pic els ate to cu - ted uri ( ers and ths 123 ) and to man dge - nts of ity ( ang et al .
123 ) .
ote hat the we use les to ate eir ior ex -
ons .
his is to ake the ion ple .
ure 123 : a pic age and ent age rom the tor of dia .
we ave led how we ute ach ent of ese ges rom the put of the pic ing thm .
ing the nts of a pic del the tor has two ain pes of ges : one for lay - ing red ics and her for the nts .
ere are lso iew ges , ich ate the all ruc - ure of the us; hey are a ing int for ing .
ese ges lay the pus and the red ruc - ure .
but his is not twe lso use the pic del nce to nd ons een ese ons .
ith ese ons , a ser can ove een ary and ent - vel ons .
nce , in our ion ery ent on a age nks a ser to a new iew .
ith ese nks , a ser can ily rse the ork of ips in a ven pus .
for ple , rom a pic age a ser can ink to iew a cic ent .
his ent ght ink to ral ics , ach of ich the ser can ore :
( son , ear , ath )
( god , all , ive ) ses ( oup , ber , ish )
( war , rce , rmy ) we ted her ion ple in ure 123
an age of his ign is hat ery ype of ion - hip has a ion and an ion .
his tes the ure of pus to a ser and lps her ate hat ure .
her , any ble may cur in ple ws; all ips are any - to - any .
pic ges ics ize the pus .
in the put of an nce thm , hey are ity ons ver the ary .
but ics end to be rse , so a ood ion is as a set of rds hat ave igh ity .
ven uch a set , ers can ten ive ing in a pic del ( ang et al .
for ple , one can ely ean rom the ree rds ( lm , ies , how ) ( ure 123 ) hat his pic is out lm and ion .
we ate ex - ple pic ges in ure 123
in ese ges , the rms are ted as a ist of rds in the eft umn , red by eir pic - erm ity kv .
the ter umn of the iew sts nts hat bit the pic , red by red pic ion dk .
ocu - ent les nks to the ing ent ges .
we can see hat the ist of nts ted to ( ool , ent , ity ) ( ure 123 ) are ied to ion and ics : ( ool , ent , ity ) bia ity
lly , ted ics are lso ted ith ing nks , ing a ser to ore the igh - vel pic ace .
pic ity is not red tly ith lda , but can be ted rom the pic ons hat it ers .
ted ics are own in the ght umn of the pic age by ise pic ity ore
23r ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( iv ) 23r ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( jv ) log ( iv ) log ( jv ) |
ere the tor ion 23a ( x ) is ned as 123 if x a and 123 ise .
his is ted to the age log dds tio of the ity of ach erm in the two ics .
his ric nds ics hat ave lar ons .
ing ith the pic rom ure 123 , his ric res the ing ics hly . ( son , ear , ath ) ( lm , ies , how ) ( ork , ook , ish ) ( bum , and , sic )
the nal pic tes to lm and ion .
the re - ted ics ver a rum of pts rom her rms of dia to man ips and ife nts .
ent ges ent ges der the nal cor - pus .
we how the ent and the ics hat it its , red by eir pic ons dk .
we lso lay ese ics in a pie art , ing eir ive ons hin the ent .
for ple , ure 123 tes hat
123 : d ( eq . 123 ) ics , nts , 123 : nts , rms , 123 : k ( eq . 123 ) ics , ent ure 123 : pic ews rom a ion of dia ( eft ) , the new ork mes ( ter ) , and us ral ses ( ght ) .
all of ese ors are ine ( see the ion and udy ion ) .
the ris tor cle is a ird out mia , a ird out law , and a ird out her ics .
ach ing of a pic nks to its ive age .
lly , nts are ted ith lar ocu - nts .
ent ity is not red tly ith lda , but is ned by the pic ons :
23r ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( ik ) 23r ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( jk ) log ( ik ) log ( jk ) | .
( 123 ) his ric ays hat a ent is lar to her ocu - nts hat bit a lar ion of ics .
iew ges iew ges are the try nts to ing the pus .
in the est of ese ges , we ank the ics by eir ive nce in the pus and lay ach in a bar ith dth nal to the ics nce ore pk : the sum of the pic ons for a ven pic ver all nts ,
les of his iew can be und in ure 123
rom his ure , we see hat any nts are ted to the pic ( old , ion , ale ) ; his is ent ith our ons of the pus , ich des any dia les on ual ies , wns , and ips .
ion and udy
we ide an pen rce ion of the pic ing ion .
ere are ree eps in ing our hod to ing a pus : ( 123 ) run lda nce on the pus to ain ior ons of the ent ari - les ( 123 ) ate a ase and ( 123 ) ate the web ges to ate the pus .
any pen - rce lda age can be ed; we sed lda - c . 123 we ted the der of the ine in hon .
it can be und at ttp : / / ode . gle . com / p / mve .
we ted ree les of ors ing our vi - ion .
we zed 123 , 123 dia les ith a 123 - pic lda del ( ttp : / / bit . ly / 123 ) .
we ana - zed 123 , 123 us ral 123 ith a 123 - pic del ( ttp : / / bit . ly / ase - emo ) .
we zed 123 , 123 new ork mes les ith a 123 - pic del ( ttp : / / bit . ly / nyt - emo ) .
a age rom ach of ese ree mos can be een in ure 123
one eek ter we sed the rce ode , we ved nks to a tor of xiv ( a rge ive of sci - tic nts ) hat was ted ing our de; it is at
ary ser udy we ted a ary ser udy on ven als , ing for ive eed - ack on the dia tor .
the ews ere ive , all ing the lue of ing the igh - vel ure of a pus ith its low - vel ent .
one wer elt it or - zed lar to how he nks .
six als ded hat hey red nec - ons hat uld ave ned ure by ing dia lly .
for ple , one ser red les out ics and red ies ith ion or dea - ion ems of ich he had sly een are .
