high dimensional data that lies on or near a low dimensional manifold can be described by a collection of local linear models .
such a description , however , does not provide a global parameterization of the manifoldarguably an important goal of unsupervised learning .
in this paper , we show how to learn a collection of local linear models that solves this more difficult problem .
our local linear models are represented by a mixture of factor analyzers , and the global coordination of these models is achieved by adding a regularizing term to the standard maximum likelihood objective function .
the regularizer breaks a degeneracy in the mixture models parameter space , favoring models whose internal coordinate systems are aligned in a consistent way .
as a result , the internal coordinates change smoothly and continuously as one traverses a connected path on the manifoldeven when the path crosses the domains of many different local models .
the regularizer takes the form of a kullback - leibler divergence and illustrates an unexpected application of variational methods : not to perform approximate inference in intractable probabilistic models , but to learn more useful internal representations in tractable ones .
copyright mit press .
postprint version .
published in advances in neural information processing systems 123 , volume 123 , pages 123 - 123
proceedings of the 123th annual neural information processing systems ( nips ) conference , held in british columbia , canada , from 123 - 123 december 123
this conference paper is available at scholarlycommons : http : / / repository . upenn . edu / cis_papers / 123
global coordination of local linear models
sam roweis , lawrence k .
saul , and geoffrey e .
hinton
department of computer science , university of toronto
department of computer and information science , university of pennsylvania
high dimensional data that lies on or near a low dimensional manifold can be de - scribed by a collection of local linear models .
such a description , however , does not provide a global parameterization of the manifoldarguably an important goal of unsupervised learning .
in this paper , we show how to learn a collection of local linear models that solves this more difcult problem .
our local linear models are represented by a mixture of factor analyzers , and the global coordi - nation of these models is achieved by adding a regularizing term to the standard maximum likelihood objective function .
the regularizer breaks a degeneracy in the mixture models parameter space , favoring models whose internal coor - dinate systems are aligned in a consistent way .
as a result , the internal coor - dinates change smoothly and continuously as one traverses a connected path on the manifoldeven when the path crosses the domains of many different local models .
the regularizer takes the form of a kullback - leibler divergence and illustrates an unexpected application of variational methods : not to perform ap - proximate inference in intractable probabilistic models , but to learn more useful internal representations in tractable ones .
123 manifold learning
consider an ensemble of images , each of which contains a face against a neutral back - ground .
each image can be represented by a point in the high dimensional vector space of pixel intensities .
this representation , however , does not exploit the strong correlations between pixels of the same image , nor does it support many useful operations for reasoning about faces .
if , for example , we select two images with faces in widely different locations and then average their pixel intensities , we do not obtain an image of a face at their average location .
images of faces lie on or near a low - dimensional , curved manifold , and we can represent them more usefully by the coordinates on this manifold than by pixel intensi - ties .
using these intrinsic coordinates , the average of two faces is another face with the average of their locations , poses and expressions .
to analyze and manipulate faces , it is helpful to imagine a magic black box with levers or dials corresponding to the intrinsic coordinates on this manifold .
given a setting of the levers and dials , the box generates an image of a face .
given an image of a face , the box deduces the appropriate setting of the levers and dials .
in this paper , we describe a fairly general way to construct such a box automatically from an ensemble of high - dimensional vectors .
we assume only that there exists an underlying manifold of low dimensionality and that the relationship between the raw data and the manifold coordinates is locally linear and smoothly varying .
thus our method applies not only to images of faces , but also to many other forms of highly distributed perceptual and scientic data ( e . g . , spectrograms of speech , robotic sensors , gene expression arrays , document collections ) .
123 local linear models
the global structure of perceptual manifolds ( such as images of faces ) tends to be highly nonlinear .
fortunately , despite their complicated global structure , we can usually char - acterize these manifolds as locally linear .
thus , to a good approximation , they can be represented by collections of simpler models , each of which describes a locally linear neighborhood ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for unsupervised learning tasks , a probabilistic model that nicely captures this intuition is a mixture of factor analyzers ( mfa ) ( 123 ) .
the model is used to describe high dimensional data that lies on or near a lower dimensional manifold .
mfas parameterize a joint distribution over observed and hidden variables :
, represents the high dimensional data; the discrete
coordinates are normally distributed123 as :
finally , the model assumes that the datas high and low dimensional coordinates are related
the model assumes that data is sampled from different neighborhoods on the manifold
discrete and continuous latent variables .
the result is a mixture of gaussian distributions with parameterized covariance matrices of the form :
, loading matricesh
where the observed variable , ! hidden variables , " $# % & ' ) ( ) ( * ( + - , , indexes different neighborhoods on the manifold; and the continuous hidden variables , . / 123 ! 123 , represent low dimensional local coordinates .
with prior probabilities 123 , and that within each neighborhood , the datas local and noise levelsi by linear processes parameterized by centersg
the marginal data distribution , o , is obtained by summing / integrating out the models , transformations h the learning problem for mfas is to estimate the centers g of these linear processes , as well as the prior probabilities123 of sampling z , averaged over training examples .
note that the parameter space of this model exhibits an invariance : taking h ba ) , does not change the marginal dis - are ) _^` ) orthogonal matrices ( \ tribution , 123 .
the transformations h correspond to arbitrary rotations and
reections of the local coordinates in each linear model .
the objective function for the em algorithm is unchanged by these transformations .
thus , maximum likelihood estimation in mfas does not favor any particular alignment; instead , it produces models whose inter - nal representations change unpredictably as one traverses connected paths on the manifold .
can we encourage models whose local coordinate systems are aligned in a consistent way ?
data from different parts of the manifold .
parameter estimation in mfas can be handled by an expectation - maximization ( em ) algorithm ( 123 ) that attempts to maximize the log -
123 global coordination
suppose the data lie near a smooth manifold with a locally at ( developable ) structure .
123although in principle each neighborhood could have a different prior on its local coordinates , is the same for all
then there exist a single set of global coordinatesc which parametrize the manifold without loss of generality we have made the standard assumption thatd / egfih*j settings ofk and absorbed the shape of each local gaussian model into the matricesm123h .
ularly tractable due to the conditional independencies of the model .
figure 123 : graphical model for globally coordinated mfas .
al - are unobserved , they affect the learn - ing through a regularization term .
after learning , inferences about the global variables are made by computing posterior distributions ,
though global coordinates . l .
likewise , data can easily be generated by sampling from l .
all these operations are partic - the conditional distribution , d / ezj
everywhere .
furthermore , to a good approximation , these global coordinates can be related to the local coordinates of different neighborhoods ( in their region of validity ) by linear123
of the manifold ? intuitively , if a data point belongs to overlapping neighborhoods , then the global coordinates computed from their local coordinate systems , given by eq .
( 123 ) , should agree .
we can formalize this global coordination of different local models by treating the
? provide a global parameterization
what does it mean to say that the coordinatesc coordinatesc as unobserved variables and incorporating them into the probabilistic model :
( here we posit a deterministic relationship between local and global coordinates , although it is possible to add noise to this mapping as well . ) the globally coordinated mfa is rep - resented by the graphical model in fig .
we can appeal to its conditional independencies to make other useful inferences .
in particular :
non - negligible probability , then the posterior distributions for the global coordinates of
arise when different mixture components give rise to inconsistent global coordinates .
while is difcult , a penalty which encourages con - sistency can be easily incorporated into the learning algorithm .
we introduce a family of
< explain a data point
to enforce this criterion of agreement , we need to penalize models whose
' given by eq .
( 123 ) are multimodal , since multiple modes only
' , to
now , if two or more mixture componentssay , this data point , as induced by eq .
( 123 ) , should be nearly identical : that is ,
directly penalizing multimodality of unimodal distributions over bothc and , and encourage the true posteriors , be close to some member ,
developing this idea further , we introduce a new objective function for unsupervised learn - ing in mfas .
the new objective function incorporates a regularizer to encourage the global consistency of local models :
' , of this family .
the rst term in this objective function computes the log - probability of the data .
the second term computes a sum of kullback - leibler ( kl ) divergences; these are designed to
by exploiting the polar factorization and absorbing reectionand rotation into the local coordinate systems .
( in practice , though , it may be easier to optimize the objective function without constraining the matrices to be of this form . ) in the experiments reported below , we have further restricted them to
123without loss of generality , the matricesh can be taken to be symmetric and positive - denite , be diagonal .
together , then , the coordination matricesh and vectors h account for an axis - aligned
scaling and uniform translation between the global and local coordinate systems .
penalize mfas whose posterior distributions over global coordinates are not unimodal .
the twin goals of density estimation and manifold learning in mfas are pursued by attempting
affect likelihood ) are exploited in order to achieve submodel agreement .
in what follows
the most convenient way to parameterize the family of unimodal distributions is a factor - ized form involving a gaussian density and a multinomial :
to balance these terms in the objective function .
the factor controls the tradeoff between ( only strict invariances ( which do not density modeling and global coordination : as we have set
% arbitrarily; further optimization is possible .
( 123 ) factorizes over andc note that the distribution according to this family of modelstheglobal coordinatec component given the data point these are exactly the constraints we wish to impose on the posterior iteration of learning , the meansc determined separately for each data point , eq .
( 123 ) : this amounts to computing the unimodal distributions ,
the true posterior distributions ,
at each
, best matched to
, implying that is independent of the mixture is gaussian , and thus unimodal .
so as to maximize the objective function in
, and mixture weights
, covariance matrices
123 learning algorithm
latent variable models are traditionally estimated by maximum likelihood or bayesian methods whose objective functions do not reward the interpretability of their internal rep - resentations .
note how the goal of developing more useful internal representations has changed the learning problem in a fundamental way .
now we have additional coordina -
tion parametersthe offsets we also have auxiliary parameters for each data pointthemeansc
thatdetermine the target distributions , these parameters , as well as the mfa model parameters#123
to stitch together the local coordinates systems in a smooth way and to learn internal representations easily coordinated by the local - to - global mapping in eq
that must also be learned from examples .
all , , must be chosen
, and mixture weights
, covariance matri -
optimization of the objective function in eq .
( 123 ) is reminiscent of so - called variational methods for approximate learning ( 123 ) .
in these methods , an approximation to an exact ( but intractable ) posterior distribution is tted by minimizing a kl divergence between the two distributions .
the auxiliary parameters of the approximating distribution are known as variational parameters .
our objective function illustrates an unexpected application of such variational methods : not to perform approximate inference in intractable probabilistic models , but to learn more useful internal representations in tractable ones .
we introduce the to regularize the multimodal distributions
unimodal and factorized distributions
the models parameter space and favors local linear models that can be globally aligned .
penalizing the kl divergence between these distributions lifts a degeneracy in
123 computing and optimizing the objective function
evaluating the objective function in eq .
( 123 ) requires a sum and integral over the latent vari - ables of the model .
these operations are simplied by rewriting the objective function as :
the factored form of the distributions
required sums and integrals .
the nal result is a simple form in terms of entropies
' makes it straightforward to perform the
th data point :
associated with the
and the local precision matrices
where we have introduced simplifying notation for the vector differences
iteratively maximizing the objective function by coordinate ascent now leads to a learning algorithm of the same general style as em .
maximizing the objective function , eq .
( 123 ) , with respect to the regularizing parameters
the m - step consists of maximizing the objective function , eq .
( 123 ) , with respect to the generative model parameters .
let us denote the updated parameter estimates by
ating the xed point equations .
the objective function is completely invariant to translation remove this degeneracy , after solving the equations above we further constrain the global coordinates to have mean zero and unit variance in each direction .
these constraints are enforced without changing the value of the objective function by simply translating the
% ) leads to the xed point equations :
, ( and subject to the constraint
these equations can be solved by iteration with
notice that
only need to be computed once before iter -
appear only in the form
and rescaling ofc and rescaling the diagonal matrices
and the variances123
, the m - step updates for the rst three
, the correlations123
satisfy an algebraic riccati equation which which may be expensive for full
at the optimum , the coordination weights approaches involve inverting the previous value of
can be solved by iterating the update shown above .
( such equations can also be solved by much more sophisticated methods well known in the engineering community
letting
the remaining updates , to be performed in the order shown , are given in terms of updated
matrices but is fast in our diagonal implementation . )
of these are :
figure 123 : global coordination of local lin - ear models .
( left ) a model trained using maxi - mum likelihood , with the arrows indicating the direction of increase for each factor analyzers local coordinate system .
( right ) a coordinated model; arrows indicate the direction in the data space corresponding to increasing the global
ellipses show the one standard deviation con - tour of the density of each analyzer .
coordinate as inferred by the algorithm
we have tested our model on simple synthetic manifolds whose structure is known as well as on collections of images of handwritten digits and faces .
figure 123 illustrates the basic concept of coordination , as achieved by our learning rule .
in the coordinated model , the global coordinate always points in the same direction along the data manifold , as dened
we also applied the algorithm to collections of images of handwritten digits and of faces .
mum likelihood , the density is well captured but each local latent variable has a random orientation along the manifold .
the mfas had 123 local models and the global coordinates were two dimensional .
after training , the coordinated mfas had learned a smooth , continuous mapping from the plane to images of digits or of faces .
this allows us both to infer a two - dimensional location given
in the model trained with maxi - by the composition of the transformationsh the representation of was an unprocessed vector of raw 123 - bit grayscale pixel intensities % digits and 123 for the& for each image ( of dimensionality 123 for the% 123 and to generate new images from any point in the plane any image by computing .
( precisely what we wanted from the magic box . ) in general , both ( i . e .
the means of the unimodal distributions the inferred global coordinatesc from the generative model , created by evaluating the mean of along straight line have captured tilt / shape and identity and represented them as the two axes of thec
paths in the global coordinate space .
in the case of digits , it seems as though our models the case of the faces the axes seem to capture pose and expression .
( for the faces , the nal
of these conditional distributions have the form of a mixture of gaussians .
figure 123 shows
of the training points after the last iteration of training as well as examples of new images
space was rotated by hand to align interpretable directions with the coordinate axes . )
as with all em algorithms , the coordinated mfa learning procedure is susceptible to lo - cal optima .
crucial to the success of our experiments is a good initialization , which was
provided by the locally linear embedding algorithm ( 123 ) .
we clampedc
bedding coordinate provided by lle and to a small value and trained until convergence ( typically 123 - 123 iterations ) .
then we proceeded with training using the full em equations , again until convergence ( usually 123 - 123 more iterations ) .
note , however , that lle and other embedding algorithms such as isomap ( 123 ) are themselves unsupervised , so the overall procedure , including this initial phase , is still unsupervised .
equal to the em -
mixture models provide a simple way to approximate the density of high dimensional data that lies on or near a low dimensional manifold .
however , their hidden representations do not make explicit the relationship between dissimilar data vectors .
in this paper , we have shown how to learn global coordinates that can act as an encapsulating interface , so that other parts of a learning system do not need to interact with the individual compo - nents of a mixture .
this should improve generalization as well as facilitate the propagation and exchange of information when these models are incorporated into a larger ( perhaps
dimensional global param - eterizations of manifolds of digits and faces .
each ered by the unsupervised algorithm; points indicate each training item at end of learning .
the image stacks on the borders are not from the training set but are generated from the model itself and represent the mean of the predictive
the inferred means
corresponding open circles ( sampled along the straight lines in the global space ) .
l at the
the models provide both a two degree - of - freedom gen - erator for complex images as well as a pose / slant recognition sys -
for the handwritten digits , the training set consisted of 123 examples of the digit 123 ( shown as crosses above ) mixed with 123 ex - amples of 123s ( shown as triangles ) .
the digits are from the nist dataset , dig - itized at 123x123 pixels .
for the faces , we used 123 im - ages of a single person with various poses and expres - sions taken from consecu - tive frames of a video digi - tized at 123x123 pixels .
bren - dan frey kindly provided the face data .
hierarchical ) architecture for probabilistic reasoning .
two variants of our purely unsupervised proposal are possible .
the rst is to use an em - bedding algorithm ( such as lle or isomap ) not only as an initialization step but to provide clamped values for the global coordinates .
while this supervised approach may work in practice , unsupervised coordination makes clear the objective function that is being opti -
figure 123 : a situation in which an un - coordinated mix - ture modeltrained to do density estimationcannot be post - coordinated .
noise has caused one of the local density mod - els to orient orthogonal to the manifold .
in globally coordi - nated learning , there is an additional pressure to align with neighbouring models which would force the local model to lie in the correct subspace .
mized , which unies the goals of manifold learning and density estimation .
another variant is to train an unsupervised mixture model ( such as a mfa ) using a traditional maximum likelihood objective function and then to post - coordinate its parameters by applying local reections / rotations and translations to create global coordinates .
as illustrated in gure 123 , however , this two - step procedure can go awry because of noise in the original training set .
when both density estimation and coordination are optimized simultaneously there is extra pressure for local experts to t the global structure of the manifold .
our work can be viewed as a synthesis of two long lines of research in unsupervised in the rst are efforts at learning the global structure of nonlinear manifolds ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; in the second are efforts at developing probabilistic graphical models for rea - soning under uncertainty ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
our work proposes to model the global coordinates on manifolds as latent variables , thus attempting to combine the representational advantages of both frameworks .
it differs from embedding by providing a fully probabilistic model valid away from the training set , and from work in generative topographic mapping ( 123 ) by not requiring a uniform discretized gridding of the latent space .
moreover , by extending the usefulness of mixture models , it further develops an architecture that has already proved quite powerful and enormously popular in applications of statistical learning .
we thank mike revow for sharing his unpublished work ( at the university of toronto ) on coordinat - ing mixtures , and zoubin ghahramani , peter dayan , jakob verbeek and two anonymous reviewers for helpful comments and corrections .
