an in to lo li em
la k
at la re
12 pa av , fl pa , nj 12 us
ro
ga co ne un , uc
12 qu sq , lo wc 12 , uk
ma pr in in pr in so fo of di - al re .
he we de lo li em ( ll ) , an un - pe le al th co lo di , ne pr em of hi di da .
ll at to di no st in hi di da by ex th lo sy - tr of li re .
no , ll ma it in in a si gl co sy of lo di , an it op th ca of ge hi no em no in lo mi .
we il th me on im of li us in au
ma pr in st pa re be wi th pr of mu si , su as im of fa or sp of sp .
of , th go of pr is so fo of di re : to co - pr th si in si an to di co re of th va .
tw po fo of di re ar th me of pr co - po an ( pc ) ( 12 ) an mu sc ( md ) ( 12 ) .
bo pc an md ar ei me de to mo li va in hi di - si da .
in pc , on co th li pr of gr va fr
th to ei of th da co ma .
in cl ( or me ) md , on co th lo di em th be pr pa di - ta be da po .
if th di co to eu di , th re of me md ar eq to pc .
bo me ar si to im , an th op do no in lo mi .
th vi ac - co fo th wi us of pc an md , de th in li as li me .
re , we in an ei me lo li em ( ll ) fo th pr of no di re ( 12 ) .
th pr is il by th no ma in fi 12
in th ex , th di - si re by ll su in id th un st of th ma , wh pr of th da by pc or me md ma fa da po to ne po in th pl .
li pc an md , ou al is si - pl to im , an it op do no in lo mi .
at th sa ti , ho , it is ca of ge hi no em .
no th mi mo fo lo di re ( 12 , 12 ) , wh cl th da an pe pc wi ea cl , do no ad th pr co he na , ho to ma hi di da in a si gl co sy of lo di .
in th pa , we re th ll al in it mo ba fo an il a po ap to au sp sy ( 12 ) .
fi 12 : th pr of no di re , as il fo th di da ( b ) sa fr a tw di ma ( a ) .
an un - su le al mu di th gl in co of th ma wi si th ex in ho th da sh be em - de in tw di .
th sh in ( c ) il th ne - pr ma di by ll .
th ll al , su in fi .
12 , is ba on si ge in .
sa fr so sm un ma .
pr th is su da ( su th th ma is we - sa ) , we ex ea da po an it ne - bo to li on or cl to a lo li pa of th ma .
, ea of di
we ca ch th lo ge of th pa by li co th re ea da po fr it ne .
in th si fo of ll , ne ne pe da po , as me by eu di - ta .
( al , on ca id ne by ch al po wi a ba of xe ra , or by us mo so ru ba on lo me . ) re er ar th me by th co fu :
su th da co of
su th co of th th da po to st .
th we
, we mi th co fu - th th re .
to co th we
do no be to th se se ,
fr it ne , en
th re fo th th th ro of th we ma su to on : su - to - on co wi be cl sh .
th op we
to th co ar fo by so a le sq pr , as di in
wh ad up th sq di be al th da po an th re -
no th th co we th mi th re er ob an im sy : fo an pa da po , th ar in to ro , re , an tr of th da po an it ne .
th in to ro an re fo im fr th fo of eq .
( 12 ) ; th in - an to tr is en by th su - to - on co on th ro of th we ma .
a co of th sy is th th re we ch in ge pr of ea ne , as op to pr th de on a pa fr of re .
ti su to tw co : rs , th ea da po
is re on
de , th re we
su th da li on or ne a sm no ma of di .
to a go ap , th , th ex a li ma of a tr , ro , an re ma th hi di co - na of ea ne to gl in co on th ma
re in ge pr of th
da th ar in to ex su tr .
we th ex th ch of lo ge in th or da sp to be eq va fo di sh al re it em ma
lo pa on th ma .
in pa , th sa we
th th da po in co in ! di .
( in , im ta a pa of sc , cu ou lo li pa of th un ma , an pl th in th lo di em sp .
as fu th th op is do in a wa th pr th an fo by ea da po to it ne ne .
in th ca , th tr of ea pa in no mo th a tr , ro , an re of it da , ex th op to wh th we ar in .
th , wh th pa ar at it lo di de , we ex th sa we to re ea da po fr it ne . )
co th ma th pr we - po , it ca be mi by so a
an or se of or co ce on th or .
de of th ei pr ar di in ap b .
th co fu th pr on ba on lo li re
ll co a ne pr ma ba on th ab id .
in th is ma to a
na st of th al , ea hi di ob
lo di ve re gl in co on th ma .
th is do by ch ! - di co to mi th em wh op th co er , bu he we x th we
em co in eq .
( 12 ) de a qu fo in th ve .
su to ei pr , wh bo ! no - ze ei pr be co ar co by an - * .
on fr pa : th nu of ne pe da po ,
no th wh th re we fo ea da po ar co fr it lo ne of th we fo ot da po em - ei , a gl op th co al da po in co co of th gr de by th we ma .
th di di in th em sp ca be co su - si th is do si by co th bo ei fr eq .
( 12 ) on at a ti .
bu th co is al co ac da po .
th is ho th al le ov lo in to di gl st .
im of th al is fa st , as th al ha on .
on ne
co th ne of ea da po ,
it ne , mi th co in eq .
( 12 ) by co li ts .
th be re ea da po
th qu fo in eq .
( 12 ) by it bo no ei .
fi 12 : su of th ll al , ma hi di da po ,
me in li al .
th al in a si pa th th th st in fi .
12 an nd gl mi of th re an em co in eq .
( 12 ) an ( 12 ) .
as di in ap a , in th un ca wh th
co th we
co th ve $ / be re by th we
, to lo di em ve , ar ch , th op we
ar co by st ne ou th in di , th le sq pr th al , as de in fi .
12 , ta as in th .
in ma se , ho , th us ma no ha ac to da of th
fo , bu on to me of di or pa di be di - fe da po .
a si va of ll , de in ap c , ca be ap to in of th fo .
in th wa , ma of pa di ca be an by ll ju as ea as md ( 12 ) ; in fa on a sm fr of al po - si pa di ( re di be ne po an th re ne ) ar re fo ru ll .
fo nd th we do no ha a un so , an a re te fo ex , on th pe th sq ma of th we be ad to th re co .
hi di ve -
th em di by ll ar ea to vi fo in tw
da po sa of th s - sh ma .
th re em sh
di ma .
in fi .
12 , fo ex , th in to ll co 12 : 12 ne pe da po , su un ho th al , us
th un tw di st .
al , th ma of tr fa is hi no in th hi di
by co , th to po sh th rs tw co di by pc .
it is cl th th ma st in th ex is mu be mo by ll .
12 sh an tw di ma , th on li in a mu hi di sp .
he , we ge ex in th mi pa of th gu tr th im of a si fa ac a la ba of ra no .
th no wa un fr on ex to th ne .
th on co st in th re im th de a tw - di ma pa by th fa ce of ma .
th in to ll co
<; gr im , wi ea im co a1 ba of no .
no th wh si to vi - pe on a ? @1 ) ve sp of pi co .
th bo po of fi .
12 sh cb ne pe da po .
th rs tw co di by ll , wi >1 co ( rg ) im of li at ea he ( 12 ) .
ou da co 12 : 12 ) is us fo re .
di re of th im ( h : 12 ) .
rs tw co di , re , by pc an ll ( wi
if th li im de a ne li ma , th tw me wo yi si re th , th si di in th em re th pr of no st .
no th wh th li pr by pc ha a so un di ab it me , th lo li em ha a di sp st , wi th ti of th sp co to ex co of th li .
fi , in ad to th ex , fo wh th tr ma st wa kn , we al ap ll to im of li us in th an of ta
fa an mo ef an .
th to an bo pa of fi .
12 sh th
it is wo no th ma po le al fo no di - al re do no sh th fa pr of ll .
it hi - cl me fo au ne ne ( 12 , 12 ) , se - or ma ( 12 ) , an la va mo ( 12 ) do no ha th sa gu of gl op or co - ve th al te to in ma mo fr pa , su as le ra , co cr , an ar sp .
th di st of ll ha th fo co .
in st 12 , co
ne ne sc ( in th wo ca ) as
, an qu in th nu of da po ,
, or li in th in
fo ma
fi 12 : th re of pc ( to ) an ll ( bo ) , ap to im of a si fa tr ac a tw - di ba of no .
no ho ll ma th im wi co fa to th co of it tw di em , wh pc fa to pr th ne st of ne im .
fi 12 : im of li ma in th em sp de by th rs tw co of pc ( to ) an ll ( bo ) .
re li ar sh ne to ci po in di pa of ea sp .
th di be th tw em in th pr of no st in th da .
se of li eq fo ea da po .
in st 12 , co
da di , ho an es fo da di on a th su - if of th ob sp co su as k - d tr ca be us to ti ( 12 ) .
in st 12 , co th re -
co th ne in st we sc as to so a th bo ei sc as di , ! , an qu in th nu of da po ,
me fo sp ei ( 12 ) , ho , ca be us to re th co to su - .
no th as mo di ar ad to th em sp , th ex on do no ch , so th ll do no ha to be re to co hi di em .
th st re of ll ar li by th we ma wh is si n by k .
; th is th nu of op re , li in th nu of em
ll il a ge pr of ma le , el by te et al ( 12 ) , th ov lo ne an pr - vi in ab gl ge .
ma vi of ll ar sh by th is al ( 12 ) , wh ha be su ap to si pr in no di re .
is is an ex of md in wh em ar op to pr ge di be pa of da po th di ar es by co sh pa th la su of da .
a vi of ll is th it av th ne to so la dy - na pr pr .
ll al te to ac ve sp ma , wh st ca be ex fo sa in ti an sp .
ll is li to be ev mo us in co wi ot me in da an an st le .
an in an im qu is ho to le a pa ma be th ob an em sp , gi
a co le sq pr
am fo st mo of su le .
th ab to le su ma - pi sh ma ll br us in ma ar of in pr .
rq pa as la ex - th re of ll .
on po ap is to us ca be co in cl fo .
co a pa da po
th co we th be re ea da po fr it ne th su to on .
we ca wr th
an re we
re er as :
in te of th in lo co ma , th
, an th to re
th so , as wr in eq .
( 12 ) , ap to re an ex in of th lo co ma .
in pr , a mo ef wa to mi th er is
th we so th th su to on ( wh yi th sa re ) .
by co , th lo co ma in eq .
( 12 ) is sy an se de .
if th co ma is si or ne si ar , fo ex , wh ) , or wh th da po ar no in ge po ca be co ( be so th sy ) by ad a sm mu of th id ma ,
op we ar gi by :
th co th si to so th li sy of eq , th ar mo ne th in di ( 12 is sm co to th tr of th em ve
b ei pr
no th th co de a qu fo ,
th am to pe la we th ex co be so le of pr in th da sa -
wh in th rs id , we ha ex th fa th th we su to on , an in th se id , we ha in th lo co ma ,
th er ca be mi in cl fo , us a la mu to en
$1 ar fo by mi th co fu , eq .
( 12 ) , fo
is 12 if
re th co to be ce on th or :
th op is pe su to co th ma th pr we
in in pr of th em ve an th ma an 12 ot .
it is cl th th co ca be tr by a co di - me wi af th co , % .
we re th de of fr by
al , to av de so , we co th em ve to ha un co , wi ou pr th sa
id ma .
no th th is no lo in ge in to be di an of or un , si th co fu in eq .
( 12 ) is in to ro an ho re .
th fu co th th co is eq to th id ma ex an as - ti th re er fo di co in th em sp sh be me on th sa sc .
th op em to a gl ro of th em sp fo ; th is a ve of th ra - ri th ( 12 ) .
th bo ei of th ma , wh we di , is th un ve wi al eq co it re a fr tr mo of ei ze .
di th ei en th co th th em ha ze me , si th co of ot ei mu
co th co of ei of th ma , z by co th bo ! su to ze , by vi of or .
th re ! ei fo th ! em co fo by ll .
ei of th ma no th th bo ! ei ) ca be fo wi pe a fu ma in to it sm ! di ( 12 ) .
mo , th ma
ca be st an ma as th
( th is , th co -
sp sy ma
, bo of ne ne to be ex cr -
c ll fr pa di
in pa , le ( th su re by mo sp ei ) ca be
gi su co sa fo la va of
re ju on mu by
an on mu by
wh ar ex sp .
th , th ma at or st it is su to st an mu th ma
ne to co th lo co ma ) ax be it ne ne , ax de th sq di be th th an th ne , ax .
in te of th lo co ma , th
as de by eq .
( 12 ) in ap a .
th ca be do by ex th us re be pa di an do pr th fo th ba of me md ( 12 ) .
th , fo a pa da po , we se :
ll ca be ap to us in in th fo of pa di .
in th ca , ne ne ar id by th sm no - ze el of ea ro in th di ma .
to de th re we fo ea da po , we
re we fo ea da po ar gi by eq .
th re of th al pr as us .
no th th va of ll re si le us in th th co - pl ma of pa di .
in , fo ea da po , th us ne on to sp it ne ne an th su of pa di be - tw th ne .
is it po to re ma st fr ev le us in , ju th pa di be ea da po an it ne - es ne ? a si co sh th th is no po .
co th sq la of th di da po wh in co su to
im th po wi ev - co ar co bl , an th po wi od - co ar co re .
th tw po em th ma al
bl po to th or an al re po to on un aw pr th di be ea po an it fo ne ne .
ne , th em co fa to pr th un st of th or ma .
th au th e .
co , h . p .
gr , an y .
le ( at la ) an b .
fr ( u .
to ) fo pr da fo th ex .
ro ac th su of th ga ch fo , th na sc fo , an th na sc an en re co of ca .
