an int to loc lin emb
law k
at& lab res
123 par ave , flo par , nj 123 usa
row
gat com neu uni , ucl
123 que squ , lon wc1 123 , uk
man pro in inf pro inv som for of dim - ali red .
her we des loc lin emb ( lle ) , an uns - per lea alg tha com low dim , nei pre emb of hig dim dat .
lle att to dis non str in hig dim dat by exp the loc sym - tri of lin rec .
not , lle map its inp int a sin glo coo sys of low dim , and its opt tho cap of gen hig non emb not inv loc min .
we ill the met on ima of lip use in aud
man pro in sta pat rec beg wit the pre of mul sig , suc as ima of fac or spe of spe .
oft , the goa of pre is som for of dim red : to com - pre the sig in siz and to dis com rep of the var .
two pop for of dim red are the met of pri com - pon ana ( pca ) ( 123 ) and mul sca ( mds ) ( 123 ) .
bot pca and mds are eig met des to mod lin var in hig dim - sio dat .
in pca , one com the lin pro of gre var fro
the top eig of the dat cov mat .
in cla ( or met ) mds , one com the low dim emb tha bes pre pai dis - tan bet dat poi .
if the dis cor to euc dis , the res of met mds are equ to pca .
bot met are sim to imp , and the opt do not inv loc min .
the vir ac - cou for the wid use of pca and mds , des the inh lim as lin met .
rec , we int an eig met loc lin emb ( lle ) for the pro of non dim red ( 123 ) .
thi pro is ill by the non man in fig 123
in thi exa , the dim - sio red by lle suc in ide the und str of the man , whi pro of the dat by pca or met mds map far dat poi to nea poi in the pla .
lik pca and mds , our alg is sim - ple to imp , and its opt do not inv loc min .
at the sam tim , how , it is cap of gen hig non emb .
not tha mix mod for loc dim red ( 123 , 123 ) , whi clu the dat and per pca wit eac clu , do not add the pro con her nam , how to map hig dim dat int a sin glo coo sys of low dim .
in thi pap , we rev the lle alg in its mos bas for and ill a pot app to aud spe syn ( 123 ) .
fig 123 : the pro of non dim red , as ill for thr dim dat ( b ) sam fro a two dim man ( a ) .
an un - sup lea alg mus dis the glo int coo of the man wit sig tha exp ind how the dat sho be emb - ded in two dim .
the sha in ( c ) ill the nei - pre map dis by lle .
the lle alg , sum in fig .
123 , is bas on sim geo int .
sam fro som smo und man .
pro the is suf dat ( suc tha the man is wel - sam ) , we exp eac dat poi and its nei - bor to lie on or clo to a loc lin pat of the man .
, eac of dim
we can cha the loc geo of the pat by lin coe tha rec eac dat poi fro its nei .
in the sim for of lle , nea nei per dat poi , as mea by euc dis - tan .
( alt , one can ide nei by cho all poi wit a bal of xed rad , or by usi mor sop rul bas on loc met . ) rec err are the mea by the cos fun :
sup the dat con of
sum the con of the th dat poi to str .
the wei
, we min the cos fun - the th rec .
to com the wei
doe not bel to thi set sec ,
fro its nei , enf
the rea for the tha the row of the wei mat sum to one : sum - to - one con wil bec cle sho .
the opt wei
to the con are fou by sol a lea squ pro , as dis in
whi add up the squ dis bet all the dat poi and the rec -
not tha the con wei tha min the rec err obe an imp sym : for any par dat poi , the are inv to rot , res , and tra of tha dat poi and its nei .
the inv to rot and res fol imm fro the for of eq .
( 123 ) ; the inv - anc to tra is enf by the sum - to - one con on the row of the wei mat .
a con of thi sym is tha the rec wei cha int geo pro of eac nei , as opp to pro tha dep on a par fra of ref .
tio sub to two con : rst , tha eac dat poi
is rec onl
des , the rec wei
sup the dat lie on or nea a smo non man of dim .
to a goo app , the , the exi a lin map of a tra , rot , and res map the hig dim coo - nat of eac nei to glo int coo on the man
ree int geo pro of the
dat tha are inv to exa suc tra .
we the exp the cha of loc geo in the ori dat spa to be equ val for dim sho als rec its emb man
loc pat on the man .
in par , the sam wei
the th dat poi in coo in ! dim .
( inf , ima tak a pai of sci , cut out loc lin pat of the und man , and pla the in the low dim emb spa .
ass fur tha thi ope is don in a way tha pre the ang for by eac dat poi to its nea nei .
in thi cas , the tra of eac pat inv no mor tha a tra , rot , and res of its dat , exa the ope to whi the wei are inv .
thu , whe the pat arr at its low dim des , we exp the sam wei to rec eac dat poi fro its nei . )
con tha mak the pro wel - pos , it can be min by sol a
an ord set of ort coo cen on the ori .
det of thi eig pro are dis in app b .
thi cos fun the pre one bas on loc lin rec
lle con a nei pre map bas on the abo ide .
in the is map to a
nal ste of the alg , eac hig dim obs
low dim vec rep glo int coo on the man .
thi is don by cho ! - dim coo to min the emb whi opt the coo err , but her we x the wei
emb cos in eq .
( 123 ) den a qua for in the vec .
sub to eig pro , who bot ! non - zer eig pro bed coo are com by an - * .
one fre par : the num of nei per dat poi ,
not tha whi the rec wei for eac dat poi are com fro its loc nei of the wei for oth dat poi em - eig , a glo ope tha cou all dat poi in con com of the gra den by the wei mat .
the dif dim in the emb spa can be com suc - siv thi is don sim by com the bot eig fro eq .
( 123 ) one at a tim .
but the com is alw cou acr dat poi .
thi is how the alg lev ove loc inf to dis glo str .
imp of the alg is fai str , as the alg has onl .
onc nei
com the nei of eac dat poi ,
its nei , min the cos in eq .
( 123 ) by con lin ts .
tha bes rec eac dat poi
the qua for in eq .
( 123 ) by its bot non eig .
fig 123 : sum of the lle alg , map hig dim dat poi ,
met in lin alg .
the alg inv a sin pas thr the thr ste in fig .
123 and nds glo min of the rec and emb cos in eqs .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
as dis in app a , in the unu cas whe the
com the wei
com the vec $ / bes rec by the wei
, to low dim emb vec , are cho , the opt wei
are com by sta nei out the inp dim , the lea squ pro the alg , as des in fig .
123 , tak as inp the .
in man set , how , the use may not hav acc to dat of thi
for , but onl to mea of dis or pai dis bet dif - fer dat poi .
a sim var of lle , des in app c , can be app to inp of thi for .
in thi way , mat of pai dis can be ana by lle jus as eas as mds ( 123 ) ; in fac onl a sma fra of all pos - sib pai dis ( rep dis bet nei poi and the res nei ) are req for run lle .
for ndi the wei doe not hav a uni sol , and a reg ter for exa , one tha pen the squ mag of the wei be add to the rec cos .
hig dim vec -
the emb dis by lle are eas to vis for int two
dat poi sam off the s - sha man .
the res emb sho
dim man .
in fig .
123 , for exa , the inp to lle con 123 : 123 nei per dat poi , suc unr how the alg , usi
the und two dim str .
ali , the man of tra fac is hig non in the hig dim
by con , the top por sho the rst two com dis by pca .
it is cle tha the man str in thi exa is muc bet mod by lle .
123 sho ano two dim man , thi one liv in a muc hig dim spa .
her , we gen exa in the mid pan of the gur tra the ima of a sin fac acr a lar bac of ran noi .
the noi was unc fro one exa to the nex .
the onl con str in the res ima thu des a two - dim man par by the fac cen of mas .
the inp to lle con
<;1 gra ima , wit eac ima con a12 bac of noi .
not tha whi sim to vis - per on a ? @12 ) vec spa of pix coo .
the bot por of fig .
123 sho cb nei per dat poi .
the rst two com dis by lle , wit >12 col ( rgb ) ima of lip at ea> hea ( 123 ) .
our dat con 123 : 123 ) is use for res .
dim red of the ima ( h : 123 ) .
rst two com dis , res , by pca and lle ( wit
if the lip ima des a nea lin man , the two met wou yie sim res thu , the sig dif in the emb rev the pre of non str .
not tha whi the lin pro by pca has a som uni dis abo its mea , the loc lin emb has a dis spi str , wit the tip of the spi cor to ext con of the lip .
fin , in add to the exa , for whi the tru man str was kno , we als app lle to ima of lip use in the ani of tal
fas and mor efc ani .
the top and bot pan of fig .
123 sho the
it is wor not tha man pop lea alg for non dim - ali red do not sha the fav pro of lle .
ite hil - cli met for aut neu net ( 123 , 123 ) , sel - org map ( 123 ) , and lat var mod ( 123 ) do not hav the sam gua of glo opt or con - ver the als ten to inv man mor fre par , suc as lea rat , con cri , and arc spe .
the dif ste of lle hav the fol com .
in ste 123 , com
nea nei sca ( in the wor cas ) asi
, and qua in the num of dat poi ,
, or lin in the inp
for man
fig 123 : the res of pca ( top ) and lle ( bot ) , app to ima of a sin fac tra acr a two - dim bac of noi .
not how lle map the ima wit cor fac to the cor of its two dim emb , whi pca fai to pre the nei str of nea ima .
fig 123 : ima of lip map int the emb spa des by the rst two coo of pca ( top ) and lle ( bot ) .
rep lip are sho nex to cir poi in dif par of eac spa .
the dif bet the two emb ind the pre of non str in the dat .
set of lin equ for eac dat poi .
in ste 123 , com
dat dis , how and esp for dat dis on a thi sub - ifo of the obs spa con suc as k - d tre can be use to tim ( 123 ) .
in ste 123 , com the rec -
com the nei ini str wei sca asi to sol a the bot eig sca asi dim , ! , and qua in the num of dat poi ,
met for spa eig ( 123 ) , how , can be use to red the com to sub - .
not tha as mor dim are add to the emb spa , the exi one do not cha , so tha lle doe not hav to be rer to com hig dim emb .
the sto req of lle are lim by the wei mat whi is siz n by k .
; thi is the num of ope req , lin in the num of emb
lle ill a gen pri of man lea , elu by ten et al ( 123 ) , tha ove loc nei ana pro - vid inf abo glo geo .
man vir of lle are sha by the iso alg ( 123 ) , whi has bee suc app to sim pro in non dim red .
iso is an ext of mds in whi emb are opt to pre geo dis bet pai of dat poi the dis are est by com sho pat thr lar sub of dat .
a vir of lle is tha it avo the nee to sol lar dy - nam pro pro .
lle als ten to acc ver spa mat , who str can be exp for sav in tim and spa .
lle is lik to be eve mor use in com wit oth met in dat ana and sta lea .
an int and imp que is how to lea a par map bet the obs and emb spa , giv
a con lea squ pro
amp for sta mod of sup lea .
the abi to lea suc map - pin sho mak lle bro use in man are of inf pro .
rq pai as lab ex - the res of lle .
one pos app is to use can be com in clo for .
con a par dat poi
the con wei tha bes rec eac dat poi fro its nei tha sum to one .
we can wri the
and rec wei
rec err as :
in ter of the inv loc cov mat , the
, and the to res
the sol , as wri in eq .
( 123 ) , app to req an exp inv of the loc cov mat .
in pra , a mor efc way to min the err is
the wei so tha the sum to one ( whi yie the sam res ) .
by con , the loc cov mat in eq .
( 123 ) is sym and sem den .
if the cov mat is sin or nea sin ari , for exa , whe ) , or whe the dat poi are not in gen pos can be con ( bef sol the sys ) by add a sma mul of the ide mat ,
opt wei are giv by :
the con tha sim to sol the lin sys of equ , the are mor nei tha inp dim ( 123 is sma com to the tra ofz the emb vec
b eig pro
not tha the cos den a qua for ,
thi amo to pen lar wei tha exp cor bey som lev of pre in the dat sam -
whe in the rst ide , we hav exp the fac tha the wei sum to one , and in the sec ide , we hav int the loc cov mat ,
thi err can be min in clo for , usi a lag mul to enf
$12 are fou by min the cos fun , eq .
( 123 ) , for
is 123 if
req the coo to be cen on the ori :
thi opt is per sub to con tha mak the pro wel
inv inn pro of the emb vec and the mat and 123 oth .
it is cle tha the coo can be tra by a con dis - men wit aff the cos , % .
we rem thi deg of fre by
als , to avo deg sol , we con the emb vec to hav uni cov , wit out pro tha sat
ide mat .
not tha the is no los in gen in to be dia and of ord uni , sin the cos fun in eq .
( 123 ) is inv to rot and hom res .
the fur con tha the cov is equ to the ide mat exp an ass - tio tha rec err for dif coo in the emb spa sho be mea on the sam sca .
the opt emb to a glo rot of the emb spa fou ; thi is a ver of the ray - rit the ( 123 ) .
the bot eig of thi mat , whi we dis , is the uni vec wit all equ com it rep a fre tra mod of eig zer .
dis thi eig enf the con tha the emb hav zer mea , sin the com of oth eig mus
con the cov of eig of the mat , z by com the bot ! sum to zer , by vir of ort .
the rem ! eig for the ! emb coo fou by lle .
eig of the mat not tha the bot ! eig ) can be fou wit per a ful mat ing to its sma ! dia ( 123 ) .
mor , the mat
can be sto and man as the
( tha is , tho cor -
spa sym mat
, bot of nev nee to be exp cre -
c lle fro pai dis
in par , lef ( the sub req by mos spa eig ) can be
giv sub com sav for lar val of
req jus one mul by
and one mul by
whi are ext spa .
thu , the mat ate or sto it is suf to sto and mul the mat
nee to com the loc cov mat ) ax bet its nea nei , ax den the squ dis bet the th and th nei , ax .
in ter of thi loc cov mat , the
as den by eq .
( 123 ) in app a .
thi can be don by exp the usu rel bet pai dis and dot pro tha for the bas of met mds ( 123 ) .
thu , for a par dat poi , we set :
lle can be app to use inp in the for of pai dis .
in thi cas , nea nei are ide by the sma non - zer ele of eac row in the dis mat .
to der the rec wei for eac dat poi , we
rec wei for eac dat poi are giv by eq .
the res of the alg pro as usu .
not tha thi var of lle req sig les use inp tha the com - ple mat of pai dis .
ins , for eac dat poi , the use nee onl to spe its nea nei and the sub of pai dis be - twe tho nei .
is it pos to rec man str fro eve les use inp , jus the pai dis bet eac dat poi and its nea - est nei ? a sim cou sho tha thi is not pos .
con the squ lat of thr dim dat poi who int coo sum to
ima tha poi wit eve - coo are col bla , and tha poi wit odd - coo are col red .
the two poi emb tha map all
bla poi to the ori and all red poi to one uni awa pre the dis bet eac poi and its fou nea nei .
nev , thi emb com fai to pre the und str of the ori man .
the aut tha e .
cos , h . p .
gra , and y .
lec ( at& lab ) and b .
fre ( u .
tor ) for pro dat for the exp .
row ack the sup of the gat cha fou , the nat sci fou , and the nat sci and eng res cou of can .
