hig dim dat tha lie on or nea a low dim man can be des by a col of loc lin mod .
suc a des , how , doe not pro a glo par of the man an imp goa of uns lea .
in thi pap , we sho how to lea a col of loc lin mod tha sol thi mor dif pro .
our loc lin mod are rep by a mix of fac ana , and the glo coo of the mod is ach by add a reg ter to the sta max lik obj fun .
the reg bre a deg in the mix mod par spa , fav mod who int coo sys are ali in a con way .
as a res , the int coo cha smo and con as one tra a con pat on the man whe the pat cro the dom of man dif loc mod .
the reg tak the for of a kul - lei div and ill an une app of var met : not to per app inf in int pro mod , but to lea mor use int rep in tra one .
cop mit pre .
pos ver .
pub in adv in neu inf pro sys 123 , vol 123 , pag 123 - 123
pro of the 123 ann neu inf pro sys ( nip ) con , hel in bri col , can , fro 123 - 123 dec 123
thi con pap is ava at sch : htt : / / rep . upe . edu / cis / 123
glo coo of loc lin mod
sam row , law k .
sau , and geo e .
hin
dep of com sci , uni of tor
dep of com and inf sci , uni of pen
hig dim dat tha lie on or nea a low dim man can be de - scr by a col of loc lin mod .
suc a des , how , doe not pro a glo par of the man an imp goa of uns lea .
in thi pap , we sho how to lea a col of loc lin mod tha sol thi mor dif pro .
our loc lin mod are rep by a mix of fac ana , and the glo coo - nat of the mod is ach by add a reg ter to the sta max lik obj fun .
the reg bre a deg in the mix mod par spa , fav mod who int coo - din sys are ali in a con way .
as a res , the int coo - din cha smo and con as one tra a con pat on the man whe the pat cro the dom of man dif loc mod .
the reg tak the for of a kul - lei div and ill an une app of var met : not to per ap - pro inf in int pro mod , but to lea mor use int rep in tra one .
123 man lea
con an ens of ima , eac of whi con a fac aga a neu bac - gro .
eac ima can be rep by a poi in the hig dim vec spa of pix int .
thi rep , how , doe not exp the str cor bet pix of the sam ima , nor doe it sup man use ope for rea abo fac .
if , for exa , we sel two ima wit fac in wid dif loc and the ave the pix int , we do not obt an ima of a fac at the ave loc .
ima of fac lie on or nea a low - dim , cur man , and we can rep the mor use by the coo on thi man tha by pix int - tie .
usi the int coo , the ave of two fac is ano fac wit the ave of the loc , pos and exp .
to ana and man fac , it is hel to ima a mag bla box wit lev or dia cor to the int coo on thi man .
giv a set of the lev and dia , the box gen an ima of a fac .
giv an ima of a fac , the box ded the app set of the lev and dia .
in thi pap , we des a fai gen way to con suc a box aut fro an ens of hig - dim vec .
we ass onl tha the exi an und man of low dim and tha the rel bet the raw dat and the man coo is loc lin and smo var .
thu our met app not onl to ima of fac , but als to man oth for of hig dis per and sci dat ( e . g . , spe of spe , rob sen , gen exp arr , doc col ) .
123 loc lin mod
the glo str of per man ( suc as ima of fac ) ten to be hig non .
for , des the com glo str , we can usu cha - act the man as loc lin .
thu , to a goo app , the can be rep by col of sim mod , eac of whi des a loc lin nei ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for uns lea tas , a pro mod tha nic cap thi int is a mix of fac ana ( mfa ) ( 123 ) .
the mod is use to des hig dim dat tha lie on or nea a low dim man .
mfa par a joi dis ove obs and hid var :
, rep the hig dim dat the dis
coo are nor dis as :
fin , the mod ass tha the dat hig and low dim coo are rel
the mod ass tha dat is sam fro dif nei on the man
dis and con lat var .
the res is a mix of gau dis wit par cov mat of the for :
, loa mat
whe the obs var , ! hid var , " $# % & ' ) ( ) ( * ( + - , , ind dif nei on the man and the con hid var , . / 123 ! 123 , rep low dim loc coo .
wit pri pro 123 , and tha wit eac nei , the dat loc and noi lev by lin pro par by cen
the mar dat dis , o , is obt by sum / int out the mod , tra h the lea pro for mfa is to est the cen g of the lin pro , as wel as the pri pro of sam z , ave ove tra exa .
not tha the par spa of thi mod exh an inv : tak h ba ) , doe not cha the mar dis - are ) _^` ) ort mat ( \ tri , 123 .
the tra h cor to arb rot and
ree of the loc coo in eac lin mod .
the obj fun for the em alg is unc by the tra .
thu , max lik est in mfa doe not fav any par ali ins , it pro mod who int - nal rep cha unp as one tra con pat on the man .
can we enc mod who loc coo sys are ali in a con way ?
dat fro dif par of the man .
par est in mfa can be han by an exp - max ( em ) alg ( 123 ) tha att to max the log -
123 glo coo
sup the dat lie nea a smo man wit a loc at ( dev ) str .
123 in pri eac nei cou hav a dif pri on its loc coo , is the sam for all
the the exi a sin set of glo coo whi par the man wit los of gen we hav mad the sta ass tha / egf set ofk and abs the sha of eac loc gau mod int the mat .
ula tra due to the con ind of the mod .
fig 123 : gra mod for glo coo mfa .
al - are uno , the aff the lea - ing thr a reg ter .
aft lea , inf abo the glo var are mad by com pos dis ,
tho glo coo . l .
lik , dat can eas be gen by sam fro l .
all the ope are par - the con dis , d / ezj
eve .
fur , to a goo app , the glo coo can be rel to the loc coo of dif nei ( in the reg of val ) by lin
of the man ? int , if a dat poi bel to ove nei , the the glo coo com fro the loc coo sys , giv by eq .
( 123 ) , sho agr .
we can for thi glo coo of dif loc mod by tre the
? pro a glo par
wha doe it mea to say tha the coo coo as uno var and inc the int the pro mod :
( her we pos a det rel bet loc and glo coo , alt it is pos to add noi to thi map as wel . ) the glo coo mfa is rep - res by the gra mod in fig .
we can app to its con ind to mak oth use inf .
in par :
non - neg pro , the the pos dis for the glo coo of
ari whe dif mix com giv ris to inc glo coo .
whi is dif , a pen whi enc con - sis can be eas inc int the lea alg .
we int a fam of
< exp a dat poi
to enf thi cri of agr , we nee to pen mod who
' giv by eq .
( 123 ) are mul , sin mul mod onl
' , to
now , if two or mor mix com , thi dat poi , as ind by eq .
( 123 ) , sho be nea ide : tha is ,
dir pen mul of uni dis ove bot and , and enc the tru pos , be clo to som mem ,
dev thi ide fur , we int a new obj fun for uns lea - ing in mfa .
the new obj fun inc a reg to enc the glo con of loc mod :
' , of thi fam .
the rst ter in thi obj fun com the log - pro of the dat .
the sec ter com a sum of kul - lei ( kl ) div the are des to
by exp the pol fac and abs ree rot int the loc coo sys .
( in pra , tho , it may be eas to opt the obj fun wit con the mat to be of thi for . ) in the exp rep bel , we hav fur res the to
123 los of gen , the mat can be tak to be sym and pos - den , be dia .
tog , the , the coo mat and vec h acc for an axi - ali
sca and uni tra bet the glo and loc coo sys .
pen mfa who pos dis ove glo coo are not uni .
the twi goa of den est and man lea in mfa are pur by att
aff lik ) are exp in ord to ach sub agr .
in wha fol
the mos con way to par the fam of uni dis is a fac - ize for inv a gau den and a mul :
to bal the ter in the obj fun .
the fac con the tra bet ( onl str inv ( whi do not den mod and glo coo : as we hav set
% arb fur opt is pos .
( 123 ) fac ove and not tha the dis acc to thi fam of mod coo com giv the dat poi the are exa the con we wis to imp on the pos ite of lea , the mea det sep for eac dat poi , eq .
( 123 ) : thi amo to com the uni dis ,
the tru pos dis ,
at eac
, bes mat to
, imp tha is ind of the mix is gau , and thu uni .
so as to max the obj fun in
, and mix wei
, cov mat
123 lea alg
lat var mod are tra est by max lik or bay met who obj fun do not rew the int of the int rep - res .
not how the goa of dev mor use int rep has cha the lea pro in a fun way .
now we hav add coo -
tio par off we als hav aux par for eac dat poi
tha the tar dis , the par , as wel as the mfa mod par
to sti tog the loc coo sys in a smo way and to lea int rep eas coo by the loc - to - glo map in eq
tha mus als be lea fro exa .
all , , mus be cho
, and mix wei
, cov mat -
opt of the obj fun in eq .
( 123 ) is rem of so - cal var met for app lea ( 123 ) .
in the met , an app to an exa ( but int ) pos dis is tte by min a kl div bet the two dis .
the aux par of the app dis are kno as var par .
our obj fun ill an une app of suc var met : not to per app inf in int pro mod , but to lea mor use int rep in tra one .
we int the to reg the mul dis
uni and fac dis
the mod par spa and fav loc lin mod tha can be glo ali .
pen the kl div bet the dis lif a deg in
123 com and opt the obj fun
eva the obj fun in eq .
( 123 ) req a sum and int ove the lat var - abl of the mod .
the ope are sim by rew the obj fun as :
the fac for of the dis
req sum and int .
the nal res is a sim for in ter of ent
' mak it str to per the
th dat poi :
ass wit the
and the loc pre mat
whe we hav int sim not for the vec dif
ite max the obj fun by coo asc now lea to a lea alg of the sam gen sty as em .
max the obj fun , eq .
( 123 ) , wit res to the reg par
the m - ste con of max the obj fun , eq .
( 123 ) , wit res to the gen mod par .
let us den the upd par est by
ati the xed poi equ .
the obj fun is com inv to tra rem thi deg , aft sol the equ abo we fur con the glo coo to hav mea zer and uni var in eac dir .
the con are enf wit cha the val of the obj fun by sim tra the
% ) lea to the xed poi equ :
, ( and sub to the con
the equ can be sol by ite wit
not tha
onl nee to be com onc bef ite -
app onl in the for
and res ofc and res the dia mat
and the var
, the m - ste upd for the rst thr
, the cor
sat an alg ric equ whi whi may be exp for ful
at the opt , the coo wei app inv inv the pre val of
can be sol by ite the upd sho abo .
( suc equ can als be sol by muc mor sop met wel kno in the eng com
let
the rem upd , to be per in the ord sho , are giv in ter of upd
mat but is fas in our dia imp . )
of the are :
fig 123 : glo coo of loc lin - ear mod .
( lef ) a mod tra usi max - mum lik , wit the arr ind the dir of inc for eac fac ana loc coo sys .
( rig ) a coo mod arr ind the dir in the dat spa cor to inc the glo
ell sho the one sta dev con - tou of the den of eac ana .
coo as inf by the alg
we hav tes our mod on sim syn man who str is kno as wel as on col of ima of han dig and fac .
fig 123 ill the bas con of coo , as ach by our lea rul .
in the coo mod , the glo coo alw poi in the sam dir alo the dat man , as den
we als app the alg to col of ima of han dig and of fac .
mum lik , the den is wel cap but eac loc lat var has a ran ori alo the man .
the mfa had 123 loc mod and the glo coo wer two dim .
aft tra , the coo mfa had lea a smo , con map fro the pla to ima of dig or of fac .
thi all us bot to inf a two - dim loc giv
in the mod tra wit max - by the com of the tra the rep of was an unp vec of raw 123 - bit gra pix int % dig and 123 for the for eac ima ( of dim 123 for the 123 and to gen new ima fro any poi in the pla any ima by com .
( pre wha we wan fro the mag box . ) in gen , bot ( i . e .
the mea of the uni dis the inf glo coo fro the gen mod , cre by eva the mea of alo str lin hav cap til / sha and ide and rep the as the two axe of the
pat in the glo coo spa .
in the cas of dig , it see as tho our mod the cas of the fac the axe see to cap pos and exp .
( for the fac , the nal
of the con dis hav the for of a mix of gau .
fig 123 sho
of the tra poi aft the las ite of tra as wel as exa of new ima
spa was rot by han to ali int dir wit the coo axe . )
as wit all em alg , the coo mfa lea pro is sus to lo - cal opt .
cru to the suc of our exp is a goo ini , whi was
pro by the loc lin emb alg ( 123 ) .
we cla
bed coo pro by lle and to a sma val and tra unt con ( typ 123 - 123 ite ) .
the we pro wit tra usi the ful em equ , aga unt con ( usu 123 - 123 mor ite ) .
not , how , tha lle and oth emb alg suc as iso ( 123 ) are the uns , so the ove pro , inc thi ini pha , is sti uns .
equ to the em -
mix mod pro a sim way to app the den of hig dim dat tha lie on or nea a low dim man .
how , the hid rep do not mak exp the rel bet dis dat vec .
in thi pap , we hav sho how to lea glo coo tha can act as an enc int , so tha oth par of a lea sys do not nee to int wit the ind com - nen of a mix .
thi sho imp gen as wel as fac the pro and exc of inf whe the mod are inc int a lar ( per
dim glo par - ete of man of dig and fac .
eac ere by the uns alg poi ind eac tra ite at end of lea .
the ima sta on the bor are not fro the tra set but are gen fro the mod its and rep the mea of the pre
the inf mea
cor ope cir ( sam alo the str lin in the glo spa ) .
l at the
the mod pro bot a two deg - of - fre gen - era for com ima as wel as a pos / sla rec sys -
for the han dig , the tra set con of 123 exa of the dig 123 ( sho as cro abo ) mix wit 123 ex - amp of 123 ( sho as tri ) .
the dig are fro the nis dat , dig - iti at 123 pix .
for the fac , we use 123 im - age of a sin per wit var pos and exp - sio tak fro con - tiv fra of a vid dig - tiz at 123 pix .
bre - dan fre kin pro the fac dat .
hie ) arc for pro rea .
two var of our pur uns pro are pos .
the rst is to use an em - bed alg ( suc as lle or iso ) not onl as an ini ste but to pro cla val for the glo coo .
whi thi sup app may wor in pra , uns coo mak cle the obj fun tha is bei opt -
fig 123 : a sit in whi an un - coo mix - tur mod to do den est be pos - coo .
noi has cau one of the loc den mod - els to ori ort to the man .
in glo coo - nat lea , the is an add pre to ali wit nei mod whi wou for the loc mod to lie in the cor sub .
miz , whi uni the goa of man lea and den est .
ano var is to tra an uns mix mod ( suc as a mfa ) usi a tra max lik obj fun and the to pos - coo its par by app loc ree / rot and tra to cre glo coo .
as ill in gur 123 , how , thi two - ste pro can go awr bec of noi in the ori tra set .
whe bot den est and coo are opt sim the is ext pre for loc exp to t the glo str of the man .
our wor can be vie as a syn of two lon lin of res in uns in the rst are eff at lea the glo str of non man ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; in the sec are eff at dev pro gra mod for rea - son und unc ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
our wor pro to mod the glo coo on man as lat var , thu att to com the rep adv of bot fra .
it dif fro emb by pro a ful pro mod val awa fro the tra set , and fro wor in gen top map ( 123 ) by not req a uni dis gri of the lat spa .
mor , by ext the use of mix mod , it fur dev an arc tha has alr pro qui pow and eno pop in app of sta lea .
we tha mik rev for sha his unp wor ( at the uni of tor ) on coo - ing mix , and zou gha , pet day , jak ver and two ano rev for hel com and cor .
