we op a rk or ge in on by an re ls ( ms ) .
ge in ms ve ny ls to rt or es ( ms ) , ut th es ed by ds ad of lf - es .
el rs re ed ly to ze he in of ct on , as ed in ms of is es .
he ed on is ex er he ls er ce of ve te ma - es nd an be ed ly .
ge in ms re ly ed to ge ms in ay ca - n; we ly em to ic on nd ni - on on he it se .
on th ks , we in ni - nt nt er ne ms ed by um od on .
or he em of ic si - on , ur ts re ve th er te - of - he - rt rs , ch as en al om ds .
ch of he ic - ic ng in ic ch on ( sr ) is ed by an re ls ( ms ) ( 23 ) .
it is ly ed at um li - od ( ml ) on of ms es ot ly ze he ce of se ls as rs .
it is re of st to op ve ng ms at op - ze ve es of ce ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
rt or es ( ms ) ly de te - of - he - rt ce or ny ms in rn og - on ( 23 ) .
he st ng or ms is ry si - on .
if he ly nd ly ed es re ly le , ms te he ar on nd - ry at es he in of ct on at is , he ce of he st le ( s ) to he ng ne .
if he ed es re ot ly ra - le , he el ck an be ed to ap he es to a ar re ce nd to te he um in ne in is ce .
ly , or in on th he el ck , he on or ms an be ed to
it in ns ( i . e . , ly ed es ) in he ng ta .
or us ns , it an be ng to ly ms to ge ms in ay on .
st , to ap - ly he el ck ( ch is ed or ar on es ) , ne st ct a ge el ix th as ny ws nd ns as ng es .
nd , he ng ty es th he er of es , ng to me nt on he ay at ry ms re ed to ay on .
in is er , we op a rk or ge in on by ms .
as in ms , ur ch is ed on he ea of in on .
ly , we ow ow to in ge in ms at ze he lo - is ce of ed es om he on es at ne ng es .
as in ms , he rs of ge in ms re ed by a ex on at es on es ar he on es .
er ng he ic ch in on 23 , we ss en - ns or al ng nd er ng in on 23 nd rt al ts on ic on nd on in on 23
ur ch as in es er ms or ge ms in ay on .
or le , he es in ge in ms re ed by ch in - ce ar on es in he ut as op - ed to he lf - es nd es in ms .
se he el ck is ot ry to ce ar on es , ge in ms re re ly ed on ry ge nd lt ta ts , as se in sr .
ge in re ls
we in by ng ge in ms in he le ng re ch ss is ed by a le id .
we en nd is rk to he se re ch ss is ed by ne or re ds .
ly , we te ur rk to er ve ms at ve en ed or ng ms .
c cc + c
ge in on
he st ge in mm ts ch ss of la - ed es by a le id .
ch id is pa - ed by a or id <d nd a ve te on ix dd .
se am - rs re us to he ns nd se ce ma - es of te ns , ut ey re ot ed in he me ay .
in on , a ve ar et 23 or ch ss is ed in he ng re .
et ( c , c , c ) te he id , on ix , nd ar et ng es in ss c .
we el an le x <d by er id as he st is ce ( us et ) to ts id :
( id : 23 ) ( xc ) tc ( xc ) + c
y = in
he al of ng is to te he rs ( c , c , c ) or ch ss of ed es at ze he or - ce of is on le .
it is ul to ct he id rs of ch ss
in a le ed ve te ix :
( id : 23 ) tc z ( id : 23 ) re
we an en te he on le in eq .
( 23 ) as ly :
y = in
re , z 23 is he or ed by ng a it nt to x <d .
in is ed on , he al of ng is ly to te he le ix c < ( 23 ) ( 23 ) or ch ss of ed es .
we ow er he em of ng in re il .
et ( ( xn , yn ) ) n 23 te a et of n ed es wn om c es , re xn <d nd yn ( 23 , 23 , .
in ge in ms , we ek es c ch at ll he es in he ng et re ly ed by a ge ni . e . , ed ar om he on es at ne ng es .
or he th le th ss el yn , is on an be en as : n zn 23 + zt
( 23 ) es at or ch ng ss c 3= yn , he ha - is ce ( us et ) to he th id ds he is ce ( us et ) to he et id by a in of at st ne it .
c 3= yn ,
we pt a ex ss on or ng ge in ms .
us to ms , he ss on as wo ms , ne at es in ns of eq .
( 23 ) nd ne at es he es c .
ng ( f ) + ax ( 23 , f ) te he so - ed ge on , we an te he ss on or ge in ms as :
n ( yn c ) zn
he nd rm es he on es c ch ar in he d d er ft ks of c .
in al - le gs , re ll he es an be ly as - ed , he nd rm rs he um ce ha - is cs nt th he it in ts in eq .
he ve ht of he wo ms is ed by a er 23 et by ss - on .
he ss on in eq .
( 23 ) is a se ar , ex on of he es c , ch re er ed to be ve te .
ts on an us be mu - ed as a em in te ng ( 23 ) .
ch ms an be ly ed by or nt go - ms th al me es ( gh we le - ed a al - se er ng nt - ed th - ds or he ts in is er ) .
st ly , eq .
( 23 ) as he le ty at ts on is ot ed by us al ma .
re ls
we ow nd he us el to nt ch ss by le ds .
is is us to ng ch ss by ts wn mm , as ed to a le an .
et cm te he ix or he th id in ss c .
he st rd on is to ne at ch le xn as ot ly a ss el yn , ut so a re nt el mn .
he er ls re ot ed a ri , ut we an te xy ls by ng a mm to he am - es in ch ss by ml on , en or ch le , ng he re nt th he st or ty er is mm .
en nt ls ( yn , mn ) , we te he ge in on in eq .
( 23 ) as : n zn 23 + zt
c 3= yn , gx ws om he ct at gp n zn + gp
( 23 ) es at or ch ng ss c 3= yn , he ch to ny id in ss c is se an he ch to he et id by a in of at st ne it .
is on
m am nm am .
es nd re ts : p
he ss on or re ls is a le en - on of eq .
we ce he ge ss in he st rm by ( 23 + zt n zn ) + , ch al - es ns of he in es in eq .
he gu - er in he nd rm es ly to um er nt cm ce ( cm ) .
ue to he in on er re ts , he lt - ng ss on is no er se ar in he ri - es m; er , it is sy to fy at it ns ex .
us , en he on of is re al ss on or ge in ms is te le .
on to us rk
ur rk rs in nt ts om us ks or ve ng of ms ( 23 )
se he ss - al es p ( |y ) re ed by ms .
ne on ch to ve ng es - es he ns , ce es , nd re ts of se ls at ze he al og - od n og p ( xn ) .
ch ls ly rm ms at re ed by ng he nt og - od n og p ( xn , yn ) .
in st to ur rk , er , he on of mm rs in is ay is ot ex .
er , as a ss on , he al og - od es ot us on es ar he on es or te he ea of a ge in .
he in ce en ge in ms nd ms is at es re ed by ds , er an lf - es , nd at he el ck ( ch es in - ng a ge el ix ) is ot ed or ar de - on es .
of se , ne an te ic de - on es in ms by ng a al el of ee wo , or by ng he rs xn to de se ts of ir al ts .
ge in ms er om ch ms by ng ir ic ms to be ve te nd by ng he up - rt of ch ss as me ed on in ut ce .
in on , ch ms ot nt he ge in ms in on 23 , th le ds er ss .
wo er ns of ge in ms re or - nt or ms in sr : ng of rs , nd al ng .
we be ch on in on , ng or ty at ch ss is ed by a le ip - id , as in on 23 .
he on to he ge in ms ed in on 23 is rd , as is he ng of rs in on th al ng .
ng of rs
ny ve ng ms re ve to ut - rs .
in - ed ss ns , in ar , do ot ly ck he on or te en he ng ta as ny rs .
we pt a le gy to ct rs nd ce ir us ct on ng .
rs re ed ng ml es of he an nd ce ix of ch ss .
se es re ed to ze es ml of he rm in eq .
en , or ch le xn , we te he ed ge ss ed by ns of he ge in ts in eq
n 23 es he se in he ss nc - te at ml on en an ly ed le xn is ed ng he se of ng .
we te rs th ge es of ml
rs rt he ng ss by ng ts fo - us ay om ed es at ld se be ly ed .
in ar , ng ne ly as - ed er es he st on ed in eq .
( 23 ) re an ng le es at ie st ly on he ng de of a on ry .
to x is it - on , we ht he ge ss ms in eq .
( 23 ) lv - ng le xn by a ve or of in ( 23 , 23 / ml is ng es he es ed by ll ly ed es , us ng he us ct of rs .
we te he ng rs ce om he ml es nd ld em ed ng ve ng .
in ce , is me rs to rk ry ly .
al ng
he in ts in eq .
( 23 ) ly to ly ed es .
we an so ax em to ly , ly , to le es wn to re he me ss el .
is is ul or sr , re we an in on le - th eg - ts , ng of le ve is es , ll of ch ng to he me me .
ly , et p ex he es in he th ic nt ( np ) al ng , we te he ts in eq .
( 23 ) as : c 3= yn ,
np 23 +
re he es on th es ve en ed by he nt th .
he nt - ed nt in eq .
( 23 ) is ly ll ed if a nt - ed on le is ed or on ( e . g . , y = nc p zp ) as ed to he me - ed le in eq
al ts
we ed ge in ms to ll - ed ob - ms in ic on nd on on he it se ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
we ed he rd on of in - ng nd st ta nd he me nt et as in er rk ( 23 , 23 ) .
ll sa es re ed .
we ed he 23 ic ls in it to 23 es nd ed ml nd ge in ms or ch es .
ts re al - ed by ng se 23 es to 23 es to ve er ns , as in us ks .
ur nt nd ed el - cy al ts ( cs ) th 23 ms ws at a 23 ms me te .
we ed he st 23 cc ts of ch me , ng th ir st nd nd me es .
ms ed se 23 - al re rs er ey re ed by ca .
ic on
ic on is an al ut ve ob - em in sr .
ne es in is se at he ch as
# of re
3% 3% 3% 3%
le 23
or es or ic on nd on on he it se .
ge in ms re ed to ne ms ed by ml on .
ee xt or ls .
en ly ed to ic ts , ut at he ic ss el of ch nt is wn .
he in - ut to he er is he nt of ve is es at ns ly ne me .
we ed ge in ms ng he nt - ed in ia in on 23 nd ed em to ne ( ll ce ) ms ed by ml on .
he ne ms re so ed to ne he xy ls or re om - ts in eq .
( 23 ) nd to ct nd ht rs , ng eq .
we ed he nt ta et to se he er - er > 23 in eq .
( 23 ) , to ne a am ge el , nd to rm ly ng of he on re .
he ng me on 3m es ( ly , 3k ts ) ed om 23 - 23 rs ng on he el ze .
le 23 ws he ge of ly ed ho - ic ts on he it st et .
ge in ms ly nd ly rm ne ms th al rs of re ts .
he st ge in mm so ds a ly er on or te an te - of - he - rt ts ( 3% ) ed by en al om ds ( 23 ) .
ic on
he me ne nd ge in ms re ed to ld ic rs .
he rs re st - er en ov ls ( ms ) th ne xt - nt te er ic ss .
ne or ge ar - in ms re ed in se ms to te he og es ( or es ) of ed es .
in ll ms , we ed he nt et to ze he ng of og on es .
le 23 es he ne er - or es of se ms , ed by ng he ts of bi ng th he nd - th ic ip - ns ( 23 ) .
in , he ge in ms ad to is - ly er or es , re ed as he um of ub - on , on , nd on or es .
we so ob - ve , as in us rk ( 23 ) , at ly - ed xt - nt ne ls ve er or es an xt - nt ls ed by ml on .
we ve wn ow to rn ms or ay si - on ed on ar es as ge in ca - on in ms .
es re ed by ds se on , pe , nd ze re ly ed to xi - ze he in of ct on , as ed in ms of is es .
he ed on is on - ex er he ls er ce of ve de - te es .
ed to ms in ic on nd on , we ed at ge in ms ed to nt nt er ne ms .
rk , we re ng ic rs th xt - nt ne ls , ch re wn to ce ne or es ( 23 , 23 ) .
we re so ng es or at - ng he ge in ng of ms th ce ls ch as ms nd / or al om ds ( 23 ) .
is rk as ed by sf rd 23
we nk a .
na ( ft ch ) nd k .
er ( ni - ty of ia ) or ny ul ns nd
