we lop a ork for rge gin ion by ian ure els ( mms ) .
rge gin mms ave any els to ort tor nes ( vms ) , but ith ses led by ids ead of alf - ces .
del ers are ned ely to ize the gin of ect ion , as red in rms of bis ces .
the red ion is vex ver the els ter ace of ive ite ma - ces and can be med tly .
rge gin mms are lly ted to rge ems in way ica - on; we ply hem to tic ion and gni - ion on the mit ase .
on oth sks , we ain gni - ant ent ver ine ems ned by mum ood ion .
for the lem of tic ssi - ion , our lts are ive ith her ate - of - the - art ers , uch as den nal dom lds .
uch of the tic - tic ing in tic ech ion ( asr ) is led by ian ure els ( mms ) ( 123 ) .
it is ely zed hat mum eli - ood ( ml ) ion of mms oes not tly ize the nce of ese els as ers .
it is ore of est to lop ive ing gms hat op - ize ive res of nce ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ort tor nes ( vms ) tly ide ate - of - the - art nce for any ems in ern cog - ion ( 123 ) .
the est ing for vms is ary ssi - ion .
if the ely and ely led les are rly ble , vms ute the ear ion und - ary hat zes the gin of ect ion hat is , the nce of the est ple ( s ) to the ing ane .
if the led les are not rly ara - ble , the nel ick can be sed to map the les nto a ear ure ace and to ute the mum gin ane in his ace .
ely , or in ion ith the nel ick , the ion for vms can be xed to
mit gin ons ( i . e . , tly led les ) in the ing ata .
for ous ons , it can be ing to ply vms to rge ems in way ion .
rst , to ap - ply the nel ick ( ich is red for ear ion ies ) , one ust uct a rge nel rix ith as any ows and mns as ing les .
ond , the ing ity ses ith the ber of ses , ing to ome ent on the way hat ary vms are zed to way ion .
in his per , we lop a ork for rge gin ion by mms .
as in vms , our ach is sed on the dea of gin ion .
ely , we how how to ain rge gin mms hat ize the alo - bis nce of led les rom the ion ies hat ene ing ses .
as in vms , the ers of rge gin mms are ned by a vex ion hat ses on les ear the ion ies .
ter ing the sic ach in ion 123 , we uss ten - ons for tal ing and ier ing in ion 123 and ort tal lts on tic ion and ion in ion 123
our ach has ain ges ver vms for rge ems in way ion .
for ple , the ses in rge gin mms are led by ich in - uce ear ion ies in the put eas op - sed to the alf - ces and nes in vms .
use the nel ick is not ary to uce ear ion ies , rge gin mms are ore ily ned on ery rge and ult ata ets , as ise in asr .
rge gin ure els
we gin by ing rge gin mms in the ple ing ere ach ass is led by a gle oid .
we hen end his ork to the ase ere ach ass is led by one or ore ids .
lly , we ate our ork to her ive gms hat ave een sed for ing mms .
c cc + c
rge gin ion
the est rge gin gmm nts ach ass of la - led les by a gle oid .
ach oid is pa - zed by a tor oid <d and a ive ite ion rix <dd .
ese ram - ers are ous to the ans and rse nce ma - ces of ate ans , but hey are not ted in the ame way .
in ion , a ive lar set 123 for ach ass is sed in the ing ure .
let ( c , c , c ) ote the oid , ion rix , and lar set ing les in ass c .
we bel an ple x <d by ver oid has the est bis nce ( lus set ) to its oid :
( cid : 123 ) ( xc ) tc ( xc ) + c
y = min
the oal of ing is to ate the ers ( c , c , c ) for ach ass of led les hat ize the for - nce of his ion ule .
it is ful to ect the oid ers of ach ass
in a gle ged ive ite rix :
( cid : 123 ) ztc z ( cid : 123 ) ere
we can hen ite the ion ule in eq .
( 123 ) as ply :
y = min
ere , z 123 is the tor ted by ing a nit ent to x <d .
in his med ion , the oal of ing is ply to ate the gle rix c < ( 123 ) ( 123 ) for ach ass of led les .
we now der the lem of ing in ore ail .
let ( ( xn , yn ) ) n 123 ote a set of n led les awn rom c ses , ere xn <d and yn ( 123 , 123 , .
in rge gin mms , we eek ces c uch hat all the les in the ing set are tly ied by a rge ini . e . , ted far rom the ion ies hat ene ing ses .
for the nth ple ith ass bel yn , his ion can be ten as : n czn 123 + zt
( 123 ) tes hat for ach ing ass c 23= yn , the aha - bis nce ( lus set ) to the cth oid eds the bis nce ( lus set ) to the get oid by a gin of at ast one nit .
c 23= yn ,
we opt a vex oss ion for ing rge gin mms .
ous to vms , the oss ion has two rms , one hat zes gin ons of eq .
( 123 ) and one hat zes the ces c .
ing ( f ) + max ( 123 , f ) ote the so - led nge ion , we can ite the oss ion for rge gin mms as :
n ( yn c ) zn
the ond erm zes the ion ces c ich ear in the d d per eft cks of c .
in eal - ble ngs , ere all the les can be tly las - ied , the ond erm ors the mum ace aha - bis ics ent ith the nit gin nts in eq .
the ive ght of the two rms is led by a ter 123 set by oss - ion .
the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) is a ise ear , vex ion of the ces c , ich are her ned to be ive ite .
its ion can hus be rmu - ted as a lem in ite ing ( 123 ) .
uch ems can be lly ved by ior int lgo - hms ith ial ime ees ( ugh we ple - ted a ial - ose ver ing ent - sed eth - ods for the lts in his per ) .
ost tly , eq .
( 123 ) has the ble rty hat its ion is not ued by ous cal ima .
ure els
we now end the ous del to ent ach ass by ple ids .
his is ous to ing ach ass by its own gmm , as sed to a gle ian .
let cm ote the rix for the mth oid in ass c .
the ost ard ion is to ine hat ach ple xn has not nly a ass bel yn , but lso a ure ent bel mn .
the ter els are not ded a ori , but we can ate oxy els by ing a gmm to the xam - les in ach ass by ml ion , hen for ach ple , ing the ure ent ith the est ior ity der his gmm .
ven int els ( yn , mn ) , we ite the rge gin ion in eq .
( 123 ) as : n mzn 123 + zt
c 23= yn , ogx ows rom the act hat ogp n nzn + ogp
( 123 ) tes hat for ach ing ass c 23= yn , the tch to any oid in ass c is rse han the tch to the get oid by a gin of at ast one nit .
his ion
m eam inm am .
ses and ure nts : p
the oss ion for ure els is a ple ten - ion of eq .
we ace the nge oss in the rst erm by ( 123 + zt n mzn ) + , ich nal - zes ons of the gin ies in eq .
the egu - zer in the ond erm ges nly to sum ver ent cm ace ( cm ) .
due to the min ion ver ure nts , the ult - ing oss ion is no ger ise ear in the tri - ces cm; ver , it is asy to ify hat it ins vex .
hus , ven the ion of his ore ral oss ion for rge gin mms is ite ble .
ion to ous ork
our ork ers in ant cts rom ous rks for ive ing of mms ( 123 )
ose the ass - nal ies p ( x|y ) are led by mms .
one mon ach to ive ing es - tes the ans , nce ces , and ure hts of ese els hat ize the nal log - ood n log p ( |xn ) .
uch els lly orm mms hat are ted by ing the int log - ood n log p ( xn , yn ) .
in ast to our ork , ver , the ion of gmm ers in his way is not vex .
ver , as a oss ion , the nal log - ood oes not cus on les ear the ion ies nor ate the dea of a rge gin .
the ain nce een rge gin mms and vms is hat ses are led by ids , her han alf - ces , and hat the nel ick ( ich ves ain - ing a rge nel rix ) is not red for ear de - ion ies .
of rse , one can ate tic de - ion ies in vms by ing a ial nel of ree two , or by ing the ors xn to ude ise cts of eir nal nts .
rge gin mms fer rom uch vms by ing eir tic rms to be ive ite and by ing the sup - ort of ach ass as ome ded ion in put ace .
in ion , uch vms not ent the rge gin mms in ion 123 , ith ple ids per ass .
two her ons of rge gin mms are por - ant for ems in asr : ing of ers , and tal ing .
we ibe ach ion in ion , ing for ity hat ach ass is led by a gle lip - oid , as in ion 123 .
the ion to the rge gin mms bed in ion 123 is ard , as is the ing of ers in ion ith tal ing .
ing of ers
any ive ing hms are ive to out - ers .
gin - sed oss ons , in lar , do not ely ack the ion ror ate hen the ing ata has any ers .
we opt a ple egy to ect ers and uce eir ous ect on ing .
ers are ted ing ml tes of the ean and nce rix of ach ass .
ese tes are sed to ize ces ml of the orm in eq .
hen , for ach ple xn , we ute the ted nge oss red by ons of the rge gin nts in eq
n 123 res the ase in the oss unc - ote hat hml ion hen an lly ied ple xn is ted ing the rse of ing .
we ate ers ith rge ues of hml
ers ort the ing ess by ing its fo - cus way rom ied les hat uld ise be ily ted .
in lar , ing one dly las - ied ier ses the ost ion sed in eq .
( 123 ) ore han ing ple les hat lie ust ely on the ong ide of a ion ary .
to x his sit - ion , we ght the nge oss rms in eq .
( 123 ) olv - ing ple xn by a ive tor of min ( 123 , 123 / hml his ing zes the ses red by all lly ied les , hus ing the ous ect of ers .
we ute the ing ors nce rom the ml tes and old hem xed ing ive ing .
in ice , his eme ars to ork ery ily .
tal ing
the gin nts in eq .
( 123 ) ply to lly led les .
we can lso lax hem to ply , ely , to ple les own to are the ame ass bel .
his is ful for asr , ere we can ain on ble - gth seg - nts , ing of ple ive sis mes , all of ich ong to the ame eme .
lly , let p dex the mes in the nth tic ent ( xnp ) tal ing , we ite the nts in eq .
( 123 ) as : c 23= yn ,
znp 123 +
ere the res on oth des ave een zed by the ent gth .
the ent - sed int in eq .
( 123 ) is lly ell ted if a ent - sed ion ule is sed for ion ( e . g . , y = inc p czp ) as sed to the ame - sed ule in eq
tal lts
we ied rge gin mms to ell - ked rob - ems in tic ion and ion on the mit ase ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
we sed the ard ion of ain - ing and est ata and the ame ent set as in ier ork ( 123 , 123 ) .
all sa ces ere ded .
we ped the 123 tic els in mit to 123 ses and ned ml and rge gin mms for ach ses .
lts ere val - ted by ing ese 123 ses to 123 nes to ove her ons , as in ous rks .
our ont end ted mel - ncy ral nts ( ccs ) ith 123 ms ows at a 123 ms ame ate .
we ned the rst 123 fcc nts of ach ame , ong ith eir rst and ond ime ves .
mms led ese 123 - nal ure ors ter hey ere ned by pca .
tic ion
tic ion is an ial but ive rob - lem in asr .
one mes in his ase hat the ech has
# of ure
23% 23% 23% 23%
ble 123
ror tes for tic ion and ion on the mit ase .
rge gin mms are red to ine mms ned by ml ion .
see ext for ils .
een tly ted nto tic its , but hat the tic ass bel of ach ent is own .
the in - put to the ier is the ent of ive sis mes hat ans ely one eme .
we ned rge gin mms ing the ent - sed gin ria in ion 123 and red hem to ine ( ull nce ) mms ned by ml ion .
the ine mms ere lso sed to ine the oxy els for ure com - nts in eq .
( 123 ) and to ect and ght ers , ing eq .
we sed the ent ata set to ose the per - ter > 123 in eq .
( 123 ) , to une a ram age del , and to orm rly ing of the ion ure .
the ing ime on 23m mes ( hly , 23k nts ) ged rom 123 - 123 urs ing on the del ize .
ble 123 ows the age of tly ied pho - tic nts on the mit est set .
rge gin mms tly and tly orm ine mms ith ual ers of ure nts .
the est rge gin gmm lso lds a tly wer ion ror ate han ate - of - the - art lts ( 23% ) ned by den nal dom lds ( 123 ) .
tic ion
the ame ine and rge gin mms ere sed to ild tic ers .
the ers ere rst - der den kov els ( mms ) ith one ext - ent ate per tic ass .
ine or rge mar - gin mms ere sed in ese mms to ute the log ies ( or res ) of ved mes .
in all mms , we sed the ent set to ize the ing of log ion ies .
ble 123 res the one er - ror tes of ese mms , ned by ing the lts of rbi ing ith the und - uth tic rip - ons ( 123 ) .
ain , the rge gin mms ead to sis - tly wer ror tes , ere ted as the sum of sub - ion , ion , and ion ror tes .
we lso ob - rve , as in ous ork ( 123 ) , hat ely - ned ext - ent one els eve wer ror tes han ext - ent els ned by ml ion .
we ave own how to arn mms for way ssi - ion sed on lar les as rge gin ica - ion in vms .
ses are ted by ids ose ion , ape , and ize are ely ned to axi - ize the gin of ect ion , as red in rms of bis ces .
the red ion is con - vex ver the els ter ace of ive ide - ite ces .
ied to ems in tic ion and ion , we wed hat rge gin mms led to ant ent ver ine mms .
ork , we are ing tic ers ith ext - ent one els , ich are own to uce one ror tes ( 123 , 123 ) .
we are lso ing mes for rat - ing the rge gin ing of mms ith nce els uch as mms and / or nal dom lds ( 123 ) .
his ork was ted by nsf ard 123
we ank a .
ana ( oft rch ) and k .
mer ( uni - ity of nia ) for any ful ons and
