an ion to lly ear ing
nce k
t&t abs rch
123 ark ave , ham ark , nj 123 usa
eis
sby nal nce nit , ucl
123 een are , don 23n 3ar , uk
any ems in ion ing lve ome orm of ion - ity ion .
ere we ibe lly ear ing ( lle ) , an nsu - sed ing thm hat tes low nal , ood ing ngs of igh nal ata .
lle pts to ver ear ure in igh nal ata by ing the cal mme - ies of ear ons .
bly , lle aps its uts nto a gle bal ate tem of wer ity , and its ons ugh ble of ing hly ear sdo not lve cal ima .
we ate the hod on ges of ips sed in ual
any ems in cal ern ion gin ith the ing of nal als , uch as ges of ces or ams of ech .
ten , the oal of ing is ome orm of ity ion : to com - ess the als in ize and to ver act ons of eir ity .
two lar rms of ity ion are the ods of pal com - ent sis ( pca ) ( 123 ) and nal ing ( mds ) ( 123 ) .
oth pca and mds are tor ods ned to del ear ies in igh men - nal ata .
in pca , one tes the ear ons of est nce rom
the top ors of the ata nce rix .
in cal ( or ric ) mds , one tes the low nal ing hat est ves ise dis - ces een ata nts .
if ese ces ond to ean ces , the lts of ric mds are ent to pca .
oth ods are ple to ent , and eir ons do not lve cal ima .
ese ues ac - unt for the ead use of pca and mds , ite eir ent ons as ear ods .
tly , we ced an tor led lly ear ing ( lle ) for the lem of ear ity ion ( 123 ) .
his lem is ted by the ear old in ure 123
in his ple , the men - ity ion by lle eds in ing the ing ure of the old , ile ons of the ata by pca or ric mds map way ata nts to rby nts in the ane .
ike pca and mds , our thm is sim - ple to ent , and its ons do not lve cal ima .
at the ame ime , ver , it is ble of ing hly ear ngs .
ote hat ure els for cal ity ion ( 123 , 123 ) , ich ter the ata and orm pca hin ach ter , do not ess the lem red ere ely , how to map igh nal ata nto a gle bal ate tem of wer ity .
in his per , we iew the lle thm in its ost sic orm and ate a ial ion to ual ech sis ( 123 ) .
ure 123 : the lem of ear ity ion , as ted for ree nal ata ( b ) led rom a two nal old ( a ) .
an un - sed ing thm ust ver the bal nal tes of the old out als hat tly ate how the ata uld be bed - ded in two ons .
the ing in ( c ) tes the ood - ing ing red by lle .
the lle thm , zed in fig .
123 , is sed on ple ric ons .
led rom ome oth ing old .
ded ere is ent ata ( uch hat the old is ell - led ) , we ect ach ata int and its igh - ors to lie on or ose to a lly ear tch of the old .
, ach of ity
we can ize the cal try of ese hes by ear nts hat uct ach ata int rom its ors .
in the est ion of lle , est ors per ata int , as red by ean dis - nce .
( ely , one can ify ors by ing all nts hin a all of xed ius , or by ing ore ted les sed on cal ics . ) ion ors are hen red by the ost ion :
ose the ata ist of
ize the ion of the th ata int to ons .
the hts
, we ize the ost unc - the th ion .
to ute the hts
oes not ong to his et; ond ,
rom its ors , ing
the son for the hat the ows of the ght rix sum to one : sum - to - one int ill ome ear tly .
the mal hts
to ese nts are und by ing a ast res lem , as sed in
ich dds up the red ces een all the ata nts and eir con -
ote hat the ned hts hat ize ese ion ors bey an ant try : for any lar ata int , hey are ant to ons , ngs , and ons of hat ata int and its ors .
the nce to ons and ngs ows ely rom the orm of eq .
( 123 ) ; the ari - nce to ons is ced by the sum - to - one int on the ows of the ght rix .
a nce of his try is hat the ion hts ize sic ric ies of ach ood , as sed to ies hat end on a lar ame of nce .
ion ect to two nts : rst , hat ach ata int
is ted nly
ign , the ion hts
ose the ata lie on or ear a oth ear old of ity .
to a ood ion , hen , ere sts a ear ing of a ion , ion , and hat aps the igh nal rdi - tes of ach ood to bal nal tes on the old
ect sic ric ies of the
ata hat are ant to tly uch ons .
we ore ect eir ion of cal try in the nal ata ace to be lly lid for ons uld lso uct its ded old
cal hes on the old .
in lar , the ame hts
the th ata int in tes in ! ons .
( lly , ine ing a air of ors , ing out lly ear hes of the ing old , and ing hem in the low nal ing ace .
ume her hat his ion is one in a way hat ves the les med by ach ata int to its est ors .
in his ase , the ion of ach tch ves no ore han a ion , ion , and ing of its ata , tly the ons to ich the hts are ant .
hus , hen the tch ves at its low nal ion , we ect the ame hts to uct ach ata int rom its ors . )
nts hat ake the lem ell - sed , it can be zed by ing a
an red set of nal tes red on the gin .
ils of his tor lem are sed in dix b .
his ost ike the ous eis sed on lly ear ion
lle cts a ood ing ing sed on the ove dea .
in the is ped to a
nal tep of the thm , ach igh nal ion
low nal tor ing bal nal tes on the old .
his is one by ing ! - nal tes to ize the ing ile ing the tes ors , but ere we x the hts
ing ost in eq .
( 123 ) nes a tic orm in the ors .
ect to tor lem , ose tom ! non - ero ors ide ing tes are ted by an - * .
one ree ter : the ber of ors per ata int ,
ote hat ile the ion hts for ach ata int are ted rom its cal ent of the hts for her ata the em - ver , a bal ion hat les all ata nts in ted nts of the aph ned by the ght rix .
the ent ons in the ing ace can be ted ces - ly; his is one ply by ing the tom ors rom eq .
( 123 ) one at a ime .
but the ion is ays led oss ata nts .
his is how the thm ges ing cal ion to ver bal ure .
ion of the thm is rly ard , as the thm has nly .
nce ors
ute the ors of ach ata int ,
its ors , ing the ost in eq .
( 123 ) by ned ear ts .
hat est uct ach ata int
the tic orm in eq .
( 123 ) by its tom ero ors .
ure 123 : ary of the lle thm , ing igh nal ata nts ,
ods in ear bra .
the thm ves a gle ass ugh the ree eps in fig .
123 and nds bal ima of the ion and ing sts in eqs .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
as sed in dix a , in the ual ase ere the
ute the hts
ute the ors $ / est ted by the hts
, to low nal ing ors , are sen , the mal hts
are ted by ard ors ber the put ity , the ast res lem the thm , as bed in fig .
123 , kes as put the .
in any ngs , ver , the ser may not ave ess to ata of his
orm , but nly to nts of ity or ise nce een dif - ent ata nts .
a ple ion of lle , bed in dix c , can be ied to put of his orm .
in his way , ces of ise ces can be zed by lle ust as ily as mds ( 123 ) ; in act nly a all ion of all pos - ble ise ces ( ing ces een ing nts and eir ive ors ) are red for ing lle .
for ing the hts oes not ave a que ion , and a ion erm for ple , one hat zes the red des of the ust be ded to the ion ost .
igh nal vec -
the ngs red by lle are est to ize for lly two
ata nts led off the s - ped old .
the ing ing ows
nal lds .
in fig .
123 , for ple , the put to lle ted 123 : 123 ors per ata int , lly led how the thm , ing
the ing two nal ure .
ize , the old of ted ces is hly ear in the igh nal
by ast , the top ion ows the rst two nts red by pca .
it is ear hat the old ure in his ple is uch ter led by lle .
123 ows her two nal old , his one ing in a uch her nal ace .
ere , we ted own in the dle nel of the eby ing the age of a gle ace oss a ger und of dom ise .
the ise was ted rom one ple to the ext .
the nly ent ure in the ing ges hus bed a two - nal old zed by the ces ter of ass .
the put to lle ted
23= ale ges , ith ach age ing 23> und of ise .
ote hat ile ple to isu - sed on a ? 3a; ) tor ace of xel tes .
the tom ion of fig .
123 ows cb ors per ata int .
the rst two nts red by lle , ith 23> lor ( rgb ) ges of ips at ea> ads ( 123 ) .
our ase ned 23= : 123 ) is ful for ion .
ity ion of ese ges ( h : 123 ) .
rst two nts red , ely , by pca and lle ( ith
if the lip ges bed a rly ear old , ese two ods uld eld lar ts; hus , the ant ces in ese ngs eal the nce of ear ure .
ote hat ile the ear ion by pca has a hat orm ion out its ean , the lly ear ing has a tly iny ure , ith the ips of the nes ing to mal ons of the ips .
lly , in ion to ese les , for ich the rue old ure was own , we lso ied lle to ges of ips sed in the ion of ing
ter and ore ent ion .
the top and tom els of fig .
123 how the
it is rth ing hat any lar ing hms for ear ion - ity ion do not are the ble ies of lle .
ive ill - ing ods for der ral rks ( 123 , 123 ) , elf - ing aps ( 123 ) , and ent ble els ( 123 ) do not ave the ame ees of bal ity or con - ce; hey lso end to lve any ore ree ers , uch as ing tes , nce ria , and ral ons .
the ent eps of lle ave the ing ies .
in tep 123 , ing
est ors les ( in the rst ase ) asi
, and lly in the ber of ata nts ,
, or rly in the put
for any
ure 123 : the lts of pca ( top ) and lle ( tom ) , ied to ges of a gle ace ted oss a two - nal und of ise .
ote how lle aps the ges ith ner ces to the ers of its two nal ing , ile pca ils to rve the ood ure of rby ges .
ure 123 : ges of ips ped nto the ing ace bed by the rst two tes of pca ( top ) and lle ( tom ) .
ive ips are own ext to led nts in ent rts of ach ace .
the ces een the two ngs ate the nce of ear ure in the ata .
set of ear ons for ach ata int .
in tep 123 , ing
ata ons , ver and lly for ata ted on a hin man - old of the ion ace ons uch as k - d ees can be sed to ime ( 123 ) .
in tep 123 , ing the con -
ute the ors ini ion hts les asi to lve a the tom ors les asi ons , ! , and lly in the ber of ata nts ,
ods for rse ems ( 123 ) , ver , can be sed to uce the ity to sub - .
ote hat as ore ons are ded to the ing ace , the ing nes do not nge , so hat lle oes not ave to be run to ute her nal ngs .
the age nts of lle are ted by the ght rix ich is ize n by k .
; his is the ber of ons red , rly in the ber of ing
lle tes a ral ple of old ing , ted by aum et al ( 123 ) , hat ing cal ely can pro - ide ion out bal try .
any ues of lle are red by the map thm ( 123 ) , ich has een lly ied to lar ems in ear ity ion .
map is an ion of mds in ich ngs are zed to rve sic ces een irs of ata ts; ese ces are ted by ing est ths ugh rge ces of ata .
a tue of lle is hat it ids the eed to lve rge dy - mic ing ems .
lle lso nds to ate ery rse ces , ose ure can be ted for ngs in ime and ace .
lle is ely to be ven ore ful in ion ith her ods in ata sis and cal ing .
an ing and ant ion is how to arn a ric ing een the ion and ing ces , ven
a ned ast res lem
les for cal els of sed ing .
the ity to arn uch map - ngs uld ake lle dly ful in any eas of ion ing .
rq irs as led ex - the lts of lle .
one ble ach is to sep can be ted in sed orm .
der a lar ata int
the ned hts hat est uct ach ata int rom its ors hat sum to one .
we can ite the
and ion tsu
ion ror as :
in rms of the rse cal nce rix , the
, and hen to ale
the ion , as ten in eq .
( 123 ) , ars to ire an cit ion of the cal nce rix .
in ice , a ore ent way to ize the ror is
the hts so hat hey sum to one ( ich lds the ame ult ) .
by ion , the cal nce rix in eq .
( 123 ) is ric and ive ite .
if the nce rix is lar or rly ras ses , for ple , hen ) , or hen the ata nts are not in ral nit can be ned ( ore ing the tem ) by ing a all ple of the ity rix ,
mal hts are ven by :
the int hat ply to lve the ear tem of ons , ere are ore ors han put ons ( 23g is all red to the ace ofz the ing ors
b tor lem
ote hat the ost nes a tic orm ,
his nts to ing rge hts hat oit ons ond ome vel of ion in the ata sam -
ere in the rst ity , we ave ted the act hat the hts sum to one , and in the ond ity , we ave ced the cal nce rix ,
his ror can be zed in sed orm , ing a nge ier to rce
123 are und by ing the ost ion , eq .
( 123 ) , for
is 123 if
ing the tes to be red on the gin :
his ion is med ect to nts hat ake the lem ell
ing ner cts of the ing ors and e*| ixz and 123 ise .
it is ear hat the tes can be ted by a ant ace - ent out ing the ost , % .
we ove his ree of dom by
lso , to oid ate ons , we ain the ing ors to ave nit nce , ith ter cts hat sfy
ity rix .
ote hat ere is no oss in ity in to be nal and of der ity , nce the ost ion in eq .
( 123 ) is ant to ons and ous ngs .
the her int hat the nce is ual to the ity rix ses an ump - ion hat ion ors for ent tes in the ing ace uld be red on the ame ale .
the mal gup to a bal ion of the ing eis und ; his is a ion of the itz - itz rem ( 123 ) .
the tom tor of his rix , ich we ard , is the nit tor ith all ual ts; it nts a ree ion ode of lue ero .
ing his tor ces the int hat the ngs ave ero ean , nce the nts of her ors ust
ing the nce of ors of the rix , z by ing the tom ! sum to ero , by tue of ity .
the ing ! ors orm the ! ing tes und by lle .
ors of the ixz ote hat the tom ! ues ) can be und out ing a ull rix ing to its est ! ion ( 123 ) .
ver , the ixz
can be red and ted as the
( hat is , ose ond -
rse ric rix
, oth of ver eds to be tly cre -
c lle rom ise ces
in lar , eft ( the ine red by ost rse ers ) can be
ing ial nal ngs for rge ues of
ing ust one ion by
and one ion by
ich are ely rse .
hus , the ixz ted or ed; it is ent to ore and ply the rix
eed to ute the cal nce ixz ) ax een its est ors , ax tes the red nce een the th and th ors , ax .
in rms of his cal nce rix , the
as ned by eq .
( 123 ) in dix a .
his can be one by ing the ual ion een ise ces and dot cts hat rms the sis of ric mds ( 123 ) .
hus , for a lar ata int , we set :
lle can be ied to ser put in the orm of ise ces .
in his ase , est ors are ied by the est non - ero nts of ach row in the nce rix .
to ive the ion hts for ach ata int , we
ion hts for ach ata int are ven by eq .
the est of the thm eds as ual .
ote hat his ant of lle res tly ess ser put han the com - ete rix of ise ces .
ead , for ach ata int , the ser eds nly to ify its est ors and the rix of ise ces be - een ose ors .
is it ble to ver old ure rom ven ess ser say , ust the ise ces een ach ata int and its ear - est ors ? a ple ple ows hat his is not ble .
der the are ice of ree nal ata nts ose ger tes sum to
ine hat nts ith ens - tes are red ack , and hat nts ith dds - tes are red red .
the two int ing hat aps all
ack nts to the gin and all red nts to one nit way ves the nce een ach int and its our est ors .
ess , his ing ely ils to rve the ing ure of the nal old .
the ors ank e .
tto , h . p .
raf , and y .
cun ( t&t abs ) and b .
rey ( u .
nto ) for ing ata for ese nts .
eis ges the ort of the sby ble ion , the nal nce ion , and the nal ces and ing rch cil of ada .
