the acy of k - est bor ( knn ) ion nds tly on the ric sed to ute ces een ent les .
in his per , we how how to arn a aha - bis nce ric for knn ion rom led les .
the bis ric can tly be wed as a bal ear ion of the put ace hat des knn ion ing ean ces .
in our ach , the ric is ned ith the oal hat the k - est ors ays ong to the ame ass ile les rom ent ses are ted by a rge gin .
as in ort tor nes ( vms ) , the gin ion ads to a vex ion sed on the nge oss .
ike ing in vms , ver , our ach re - res no ion or ion for ems in way ( as sed to ary ) ion .
in our ork , the bis nce ric is ned as the ion to a ite ram .
on ral ata ets of ing ize and lty , we nd hat ics ned in his way ead to ant nts in knn ion .
mes ese lts can be her ved by ing the ing les and ing an ual ric hin ach ter .
we how how to arn and ine ese cal ics in a lly ted ner .
rds : vex ion , emi - ite ing , bis nce , ric arn - ing , lti - ass ion , ort tor nes
one of the est and est ods for ern ion is the k - est ors ( knn ) ule ( ver and art , 123 ) .
the knn ule ies ach led ple by the ity bel of its k - est ors in the ing set .
ite its ity , the knn ule ten lds ive lts and in ain ins , hen rly ned ith ior dge , it has tly ced the ate - of - the - art ( gie et al . , 23; ard et al . , 123 ) .
by the ery ure of its ion ule , the nce of knn ion nds lly on the way hat ces are ted een ent les .
hen no ior dge is ble , ost ons of knn ute ple ean ces ( ing the ex - les are ted as tor uts ) .
ely , ean ces ore any cal
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 ian q .
ger and nce aul .
ger and aul
ies hat ght be ted rom a rge ing set of led les .
lly , one uld ike to apt the nce ric to the ion at and .
ose , for ple , hat we are ing knn to ify ges of ces by age and der .
it can dly be mal to use the ame nce ric for age and der ion , ven if in oth sks , ces are ted een the ame ets of ted res ( e . g . , els , lor ams ) .
ted by ese ues , a ber of ers ave ted hat knn ion can be tly ved by ing an ate nce ric rom led les ( pra et al . , 23; ger et al . , 23; lev - rtz et al . , 23; tal et al . , 123 ) .
his is the so - led lem of nce ric ing .
tly , it has een own hat ven a ple ear ion of the put res can ead to ant nts in knn ion ( ger et al . , 23; lev - rtz et al . , 123 ) .
our ork lds in a vel ion on the ess of ese ous hes .
in his per , we how how to arn a bis nce ric for knn ion .
the thm hat we ose was bed at a igh vel in ier ork ( ger et al . , 123 ) and ter ded in rms of ity and acy ( ger and aul , 123 ) .
ely , the thm is sed on the ple ion hat the knn ion ule ill tly ify an ex - ple if its k - est ors are the ame bel .
the thm pts to ase the ber of ing les ith his rty by ing a ear ion of the put ace hat des knn ion ing ean ces .
the ear ion is ved by min - ing a oss ion hat sts of two rms .
the rst erm zes rge ces een les in the ame ass hat are red as k - est ors , ile the ond erm zes all ces een les ith non - ing els .
ing ese rms lds a ear ion of the put ace hat ses the ber of ing les ose k - est ors ave ing els .
the ean ces in the med ace can tly be wed as bis ces in the nal ace .
we oit his nce to ast the lem of nce ric ing as a lem in vex ion .
our ach is ely red by ent ork on ood ent sis ( old - ger et al . , 123 ) and ric ing in rgy - sed els ( pra et al . , 123 ) .
ite lar als , ver , our hod ers tly in the sed ion .
we ate the lem of nce ric ing as an nce of ite ing .
hus , the op - ion is vex , and its bal mum can be tly ted .
ere ave een her ies in nce ric ing sed on lue ems ( tal et al . , 23; de bie et al . , 123 ) and ite ing ( son and eis , 23; lev - rtz et al . , 23; ing et al . , 123 ) .
ese ous hes , ver , lly mpt to arn nce ics hat ter her all rly led uts , ven ose hat are not k - est ors .
his ive is far ore ult to eve han hat we ose .
ver , it oes not age the ull wer of knn ion , ose acy oes not ire hat all rly led uts be tly red .
ere are any els een our hod and ion by ort tor nes ( vms ) ost bly , a vex ive ion sed on the nge oss , and the ial to ork in ear ure ces by ing the nel ick .
in ght of ese els , we ibe our ach as rge gin est bor ( mnn ) ion .
our ork can be wed as the cal art to vms in ich knn ion ces ear ion .
our ork sts ith ion by vms , ver , in one ing ect : it res no ion for ass ems .
ons of vms to ass ems ypi -
nce ric ing
lly lve ing the lts of any ary ers , or hey ire nal ery hat is ant but non - ial ( mer and ger , 123 ) .
in oth ses the ing ime les at ast rly in the ber of ses .
by ast , our ork has no cit nce on the ber of ses .
we lso how how to end our ork to arn ple bis ics , ach of hem ted ith a ent ass bel and / or ion of the put ace .
the ple ics are ned sly by ing a gle oss ion .
ile the oss ion les ics in ent rts of the put ace , the ion ins an nce of ite ing .
the lly ted ing of cal nce ics hes our ach rom ier ork on ant ive knn ion ( tie and ani , 123 )
our per is zed as ows .
ion 123 ces the ral lem of nce ric ing for knn ion and ews ous hes hat ted our ork .
ion 123 bes our del for mnn ion and tes the red ion as an in - nce of ite ing .
ion 123 nts tal lts on ral ata ets .
ion 123 ses ral ons to mnn ion , ing ive re - ion of get ors , lly ive bis ics in ent rts of the put ace , and ion of the sic thm .
ion 123 bes ter ons for ing and ing in mnn ion ing all ees .
ion 123 des by ing our ain con - ons and ing ral ons of ing rch .
lly , dix a bes the ial - ose ver hat we ted for rge ale ems in mnn ion .
in his ion , we uce the ral lem of nce ric ing ( ion 123 ) and iew a ber of sly ied hes .
dly ing , ese hes all nto ree ies : tor ods sed on ond - der ics ( ion 123 ) , vex ons ver the ace of ive ite ces ( ion 123 ) , and lly sed hms hat tly mpt to ize knn ion ror ( ion 123 ) .
123 nce ric ing we gin by ing ome sic ogy .
a ing d : x x + is led a ric if for all ors ~ xi , ~ x j , ~ xk x , it ses the ies :
123 ver a tor ace x
d ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) + d ( ~ x j , ~ xk ) d ( ~ xi , ~ xk ) ( lar ity ) .
d ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) 123 ( non - ity ) .
d ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) = d ( ~ x j , ~ xi ) ( try ) .
d ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) = 123 ~ xi = ~ x j ( ity ) .
tly ing , if a ing ses the rst ree ies but not the rth , it is led a ric .
ver , to ify the ion in hat ows , we ill ten fer to udo - ics as ics , ing out the ion nly hen ary .
we ain a ily of ics ver x by ing ean ces ter ing a
ear ion ~ x = l ~ x .
ese ics ute red ces as :
dl ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) = kl ( ~ xi ~ x j ) 123
ger and aul
ere the ear ion in eq .
( 123 ) is zed by the rix l .
it is ple to how hat eq .
( 123 ) nes a lid ric if l is ull ank and a lid ric ise .
it is mon to ess red ces der the ric in eq .
( 123 ) in rms of the are
m = ll .
any rix m med in his way rom a eal - ued rix l is eed to be ive ide - ite ( i . e . , to ave no ive ues ) .
in rms of the rix m , we ote red ces by
dm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) = ( ~ xi ~ x j ) m ( ~ xi ~ x j ) ,
and we fer to ics of his orm as bis ics .
lly , his erm was sed to ibe the tic rms in ian ons , ere the rix m yed the ole of the rse nce rix .
ere we low m to ote any ive ite rix .
the ces in eq .
( 123 ) and eq .
( 123 ) can be wed as ons of ean ces .
in lar , ean ces are red by ing m to be ual to the ity rix .
a bis nce ric can be zed in rms of the rix l or the rix m .
ote hat the rix l ely nes the rix m , ile the rix m nes l up to ion ( ich oes not ect the ion of ces ) .
his nce sts two ent ap - hes to nce ric ing .
in lar , we can her ate a ear ion l , or we can ate a ive ite rix m .
ote hat in the rst ach , the iza - ion is ned , ile in the ond ach , it is ant to rce the int hat the rix m is ive ite .
ugh lly ore ted to lve a ned ion , his ond ach has ain ges hat we ore in ter ons .
any ers ave sed ays to ate bis nce ics for the ose of ing ces in knn ion .
in lar , let ( ( ~ xi , yi ) ) n 123 ote a ing set of n led les ith uts ~ xi d and ete ( but not ily ary ) ass els yi ( 123 , 123 , .
for knn ion , one eks a ear ion uch hat est ors ted rom the ces in eq .
( 123 ) are the ame ass els .
we iew ral ous hes to his lem in the ing ion .
123 tor ods
tor ods ave een ely sed to ver ive ear ons of the put ace .
as sed in ion 123 , ese ear ons can be wed as ing a bis nce ric .
lar tor ods for ear ing are pal ent sis , ear ant sis , and ant ent sis .
ese ods fer in the way hat hey use led or led ata to ive ear ons of the put ace .
ese ods can lso be zed to ork in a ear ure ace ( ler et al . , 23; opf et al . , 23; ang et al . , 123 ) , ugh we do not uss uch ons ere .
123 . 123 pal ent sis
we iey iew pal ent sis ( pca ) ( ffe , 123 ) in the ext of nce ric ing .
lly , pca tes the ear ion ~ xi l ~ xi hat cts the ing uts ( ~ xi ) n 123 nto a nce - ing ace .
the nce of the ted uts
nce ric ing
can be ten in rms of the nce rix :
( ~ xi ~ ) ( ~ xi ~ ) ,
ere ~ = 123 i ~ xi tes the ple ean .
the ear ion l is sen to ize the nce of the ted uts , ect to the int hat l nes a ion rix .
in rms of the put nce rix , the red ion is ven by :
tr ( lcl ) ect to : ll = i .
the ion in eq .
( 123 ) has a sed - orm on; the ard ion tes the ows of l ith the ing ors of the nce rix .
if l is a lar rix , the ear ion cts the uts nto a wer nal ace .
if l is a are rix , hen the ion oes not uce the ity , but his ion ill ves to ate and re - der the put tes by eir ive ces .
ote hat pca tes in an sed ing out ing the ass els of ing uts to ive ive ear ons .
ess , pca ill has ain ful ies as a orm of ear ing for knn ion .
for ple , pca can be sed for de - ing : ing out the nts of the tom ors ten ces knn ror ate .
pca can lso be sed to ate bor est ons in rge ata ets .
the ear ing rom pca can tly uce the unt of ion her by tly ing the ity of the uts , or ply by re - ing the put tes in rms of eir nce ( as sed her in ion 123 ) .
123 . 123 ear ant sis
we iey iew ear ant sis ( lda ) ( her , 123 ) in the ext of nce ric ing .
let w c ote the set of ces of les in the cth ass ( ith yi = c ) .
lly , lda tes the ear ion ~ xi l ~ xi hat zes the unt of een - ass nce ive to the unt of hin - ass nce .
ese ces are ted rom the een - ass and hin - ass nce ces , ned by :
( ~ xi ~ c ) ( ~ xi ~ c ) ,
ere ~ c tes the ple ean of the cth ss; we lso ume hat the ata is lly red .
the ear ion l is sen to ize the tio of een - ass to hin - ass ari - nce , ect to the int hat l nes a ion rix .
in rms of the ove nce ces , the red ion is ven by :
cwl ( cid : 123 ) ect to : ll = i .
the ion in eq .
( 123 ) has a sed - orm on; the ard ion tes the ows of l ith the ing ors of 123
ger and aul
lda is ely sed as a orm of ear ing for ern ion .
ike pca , lda tes in a sed ing and ses the ass els of the uts to ive ive ear ons .
ote hat the een - ass nce rix cb in eq .
( 123 ) has at ost ank c , ere c is the ber of ses .
hus , up to c ear ons can be ted rom the lue lem in lda .
use ese ons are sed on ond - der ics , hey ork ell to ate ses ose nal ies are ate ian .
hen his ion oes not old , ver , lda may act ous res hat are not ell ted to
123 . 123 ant ent sis
lly , we iey iew ant ent sis ( rca ) ( tal et al . , 23; bar - lel et al . , 123 ) in the ext of nce ric ing .
rca is ate een pca and lda in its use of led ata .
lly , rca kes use of so - led let ion , or ass hip nts .
a let is lly a set of a ass .
uts in the ame let ong to the ame ass , but uts in ent ets do not ily ong to ent ses .
lly , rca tes the ear ion ~ xi l ~ xi hat ens the ata ith ect to the ged hin - let nce rix .
in lar , let w set of ces of les in the th let , and let ~ ote the ean of ese les .
the ged hin - let nce rix is ven by :
( ~ xi ~ l ) ( ~ xi ~ l ) .
rca ses the ear ion ~ xi l ~ xi ith l = 123 / 123 .
his ion cts to ize the hin - let nce .
an ded ide ect of his ion may be to ify isy ons in the ata .
hus , it is ded to de - ise the ata by pca ore ing the hin - let nce rix .
123 vex ion
all hat the oal of nce ric ing can be ted in two ays : to arn a ear ans - ion ~ xi l ~ xi or , tly , to arn a bis ric m = ll .
it is ble to ate ain pes of nce ric ing as vex ons ver the one of pos - ive ite ces m .
in his ion , we iew two ous hes sed on his
123 . 123 bis ric for ing
a vex ive ion for nce ric ing was rst sed by ing et al .
( 123 ) .
the oal of his ork was to arn a bis ric for ing ( mmc ) ith ide - ion .
mmc res a lar oal as lda : ely , to ize the ces een rly led in - uts ile ing the ces een tly led uts .
mmc ers rom lda in its ion of nce ric ing as an vex ion lem .
in lar , eas lda ves the lue lem in eq .
( 123 ) to ute the ear ion l , mmc ves a vex ion ver the rix m = ll hat tly nts the bix ric
nce ric ing
to ate the ion for mmc , it is ful to uce her ion .
rom the ass els yi , we ene the n n ary ion rix ith nts yi j = 123 if yi = y j and yi j = 123 ise .
in rms of his ion , mmc pts to ize the ces een irs of uts ith ent els ( yi j = 123 ) , ile ing the sum ver red ces of irs of rly led uts ( yi j = 123 ) .
in lar , mmc ves the ing ion :
i j ( 123 yi j ) pdm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) ect to : i j yi jdm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) 123 ( 123 ) m ( cid : 123 ) 123
the rst int is red to ake the lem ble and ed; the ond int ces hat m is a ive ite rix .
the all ion is vex .
the are oot in the ive ion res hat mmc ads to lly ent lts han lda .
mmc was ned to ove the nce of ive ing hms uch as k - ans .
in ese hms , ers are lly led as mal or dal ons .
mmc lds on his ion by ing to ize ces een all irs of rly led ts; his ive is nly ble for dal ers .
for his son , ver , mmc is not lly ate as a orm of nce ric ing for knn ion .
one of the jor ths of knn ion is its non - ric ork .
hus a ent ive for nce ric ing is ded to rve his gth of knn ely , hat it oes not tly ake ric ( or her ing ) ons out the put ons .
123 . 123 ine ing of bis ces
vex ons ver the one of ive ite ces ave lso een sed for ron - ike hes to nce ric ing .
the ric ine ing lgo - thm ( ola ) ( lev - rtz et al . , 123 ) nes eas rom vex ion and rge gin ion .
ike lda and mmc , ola pts to arn a ric hat nks ces een rly led uts and nds ces een tly led uts .
ola ers rom lda and mmc , ver , in tly ing a ite gin hat tes dif - tly led uts .
ola was lso ved in an ine ing .
the ine ion of ola rks as ows .
at ime t , the ing ent nts a ple ( ~ xt , ~ xt , yt ) , ere the ary bel yt tes her the two uts ~ xt and ~ xt ong to the ame ( yt = 123 ) or ent ( yt 123 ) ses .
rom ing les of his orm , ola pts to arn a bis ric m and a lar old b uch hat rly led uts are at ost a nce of b 123 art , ile tly led uts are at ast a nce of b + 123 art .
ese nts can be sed by the gle ity :
thb ( cid : 123 ) ~ xt ~ xt ( cid : 123 ) m ( cid : 123 ) ~ xt ~ xt ( cid : 123 ) i 123
the nce ric m and old b are ted ter ach ple ( ~ ut , ~ vt , yt ) to ect any ion of his ity .
in lar , the ate tes a ive ite rix m hat ses ( 123 ) .
the red ion can be med by an ing ion thm , lar to the one bed in dix a .
the thm nds lly to ems ith ore han two
ger and aul
ola can lso be ted on a ata set of xed ize .
in his ing , irs of uts are dly sed til no air tes its gin nts by ore han ome ant b > 123
ver , as in ron ing , the ber of ons ver the ata set can be ded ove ( lev - rtz et al . , 123 ) .
in any ays , ola its the ame ths and ses as mmc .
oth hms are sed on vex ons hat do not ave ous cal ima .
on the her and , oth hms ake cit ons out the ons of uts and ass els .
the gin nts ced by ola are ned to arn a nce ric der ich all irs of rly led uts are ser han all irs of tly led uts .
his ype of ing may ten be ble , ver , ven in ons ere knn ion is ble to eed .
for his son , a ent ork is red to arn nce ics for knn ion .
123 ood ent sis
tly , ger et al .
( 123 ) red how to arn a bis nce ric lly for knn ion .
hey sed a vel sed ing thm own as igh - ood ent sis ( nca ) .
the thm tes the ted ave - one - out las - ion ror rom a tic ant of knn ion .
the tic ier ses a bis nce ric zed by the ear ion ~ x l ~ x in eqs .
the thm pts to ate the ear ion l hat zes the ted ion ror hen ces are ted in his way .
the tic ier in nca is sed to bel ies by the ity ote of rby ing les , but not ily the k est ors .
in lar , for ach ery , the nce les in the ing set are awn rom a max ity ion hat ors rby les ver way nes .
the ity of ing ~ x j as a nce ple for ~ xi is ven
pi j = ( exp ( ilx 123 )
3=i exp ( 123 )
if i 23= j if i = j .
ote hat ere is no ree ter k for the ber of est ors in his tic ier .
ead , the ale of l nes the ize of ods rom ich rby ing les are led .
on age , ugh , his ing ure lds lar lts as a tic knn ier ( for ome lue of k ) ith the ame bis nce ric .
der the max ing eme in eq .
( 123 ) , it is ple to ute the ted ave - one - out ion ror on the ing les .
as in ion 123 . 123 , we ene the nn ary rix ith nts yi j = 123 if yi = y j and yi j = 123 ise .
the ted ror tes the ion of ing les hat are ( on age ) ied :
e nca = 123
pi jyi j .
the ror in eq .
( 123 ) is a ous , ble ion of the ear ion l sed to ute bis ces in eq
ote hat the ity of eq .
( 123 ) nds on the tic ood ent of the nca ion ule .
by ast , the ave - one - out ror of a tic knn ier is her ous nor ble in the ers of the nce ric .
for nce ric
nce ric ing
ing , the ity of eq .
( 123 ) is a key age of tic ood ent , ing it ble to ize his ror ure by ent ent .
it uld be uch ore ult to ize the ave - one - out ror of its tic art .
the ive ion for nca ers in one ant ect rom her hms wed in his ion .
ugh ous and ble ith ect to the ers of the nce ric , eq .
( 123 ) is not vex , nor can it be zed ing tor ods .
hus , the op - ion in nca can fer rom ous cal ima .
in ice , the lts of the ing thm end on the ion of the nce ric .
the ear ion in nca can lso be sed to ect the uts nto a wer nal ean ace .
( 123 ) ain lid hen l is a lar as sed to are rix .
wer nal ons ned by nca can be sed to ize ass ure and / or to ate knn rch .
tly , son and eis ( 123 ) sed a ted del own as ric ing by ing ses ( lcc ) .
the oal of lcc is to nd a nce ric hat ( ike lda ) nks the hin - ass nce ile ing the ion een ent ses .
lcc ses a lar ule as nca for tic ion , so as to eld a ble ive ion .
red to nca , lcc has oth ges and ges for nce ric ing .
the ain age is hat nce ric ing in lcc can be ted as a vex ion ver the ace of ive ite ces .
the ain age is hat lcc tly mes hat the les in ach ass ave a dal ion .
in his nse , lcc res the ame sic ths and ses of the ods bed in
the del we ose for nce ric ing lds on the hms wed in ion 123
in mon ith all of hem , we mpt to arn a bis nce ric of the orm in eqs .
her key cts of our del ild on the lar ths of ual ap - hes .
as in mmc ( see ion 123 . 123 ) , we ate the ter ion in our del as a vex ion ver the ace of ive ite ces .
as in ola ( see sec - ion 123 . 123 ) , we mpt to ize the gin by ich the del tly ies led les in the ing set .
lly , as in nca ( see ion 123 ) , our del was ved cif - lly to arn a bis nce ric hat ves the acy of knn ion .
eed , the ree ial nts of our del are ( i ) its vex oss ion , ( ii ) its oal of gin ion , and ( iii ) the nts on the nce ric sed by ate knn
123 ion and ogy
our del is sed on two ple ons ( and ons ) for ust knn ion : rst , hat ach ing put ~ xi uld are the ame bel yi as its k est rs; ond , hat ing uts ith ent els uld be ely ted .
we mpt to arn a ear ans - ion of the put ace uch hat the ing uts sfy ese ies .
in act , ese ves are tly ced by two ing rms in our els oss ion .
lly , one erm zes rge ces een rby uts ith the ame bel , ile the her erm
ger and aul
zes all ces een uts ith ent els .
to ake ise ese ive no - ons of rge and all , ver , we rst eed to uce ome new ogy .
ing in our ork res ary ion ond the bel yi of ach put ~ xi in the ing set .
all hat the oal of ing is to ate a nce ric der ich ach put ~ xi has k est ors hat are its ame bel yi .
we ate his oal by ing get ors for ach put ~ xi at the set of ing .
the get ors of ~ xi are ose hat we ire to be est to ~ xi; in lar , we mpt to arn a ear ion of the put ace uch hat the ing est ors of ~ xi are eed its get ors .
we ize hat get ors are xed a ori and do not nge ing the ing ess .
his tep tly ies the ing ess by ing a ori ich rly led uts to ter her .
in any ons , ere may be ior dge or ary ion ( e . g . , a ity aph ) hat lly ies get ors .
in the nce of ior dge , the est ion is to ute the k est ors ith the ame ass bel , as ned by ean nce .
his was one for all the nts in his per .
we use the ion j i to ate hat put ~ x j is a get bor of put ~ xi .
ote hat his ion is not ric : j i oes not ply i j .
for knn ion to eed , the get ors of ach put ~ xi uld be ser han all tly led uts .
in lar , for ach put ~ xi , we can ine the get ors as ing a ter hat tly led uts uld not ade .
we fer to the tly led uts in the ing set hat ade his ter as rs; the oal of ing ( hly ing ) is to ize the ber of ors .
in act , to ase the ess of knn ion , we opt an ven ore ent oal for ely to ain a rge ( ite ) nce een ors and the ers hed by get ors .
by ing a gin of ety und the knn ion und - ies , we ure hat the del is ust to all nts of ise in the ing uts .
his ess ion lso ves ise to the ame of our ach : rge gin est bor
in cal rms , ors are ned by a ple ity .
for an put ~ xi ith bel yi
and get bor ~ x j , an tor is any put ~ xl ith bel ~ yl 23= ~ yi uch hat
kl ( ~ xi ~ xl ) 123 kl ( ~ xi ~ x j ) 123 + 123
in her rds , an tor ~ xl is any tly led put hat des the ter lus nit gin ned by any get bor ~ x j of the put ~ xi .
ure 123 tes the ain dea ind mnn ion .
ore ing , a ing put has oth get ors and ors in its cal ood .
ing ing , the ors are hed ide the ter hed by the get ors .
ter ing , ere sts a ite gin een the ter and the ors .
the ure ows the zed rio ere knn ion ors in the nal put ace are ted by ing an ate
123 oss ion
ith the ion and ogy rom the ous ion , we can now uct a oss ion for mnn ion .
the oss ion sts of two rms , one ich cts to ull get ors ser her , and her ich cts to ush tly led les her art .
nce ric ing
ure 123 : tic ion of one uts ood ore ing ( eft ) sus ter ain - ing ( ght ) .
the nce ric is zed so hat : ( i ) its 123 get ors lie hin a ler ius ter ng; ( ii ) tly led uts lie ide his ler ius by ome ite gin .
ows ate the nts on ces ing rom ent rms in the ost ion .
ese two rms ave ing cts , nce the rst is ced by ing the ces een les ile the ond is lly ced by ing hem .
we uss ach erm in urn .
the rst erm in the oss ion zes rge ces een ach put and its get ors .
in rms of the ear ion l of the put ace , the sum of ese red ces is ven by :
e ull ( l ) = ( cid : 123 )
j ikl ( ~ xi ~ x j ) 123
the ent of his erm tes a ing rce hat cts get ors in the rly med put ace .
it is ant hat eq .
( 123 ) nly zes rge ces een uts and eir get rs; in lar , it oes not ize rge ces een all rly led uts .
we lly do not ize the ter use ate knn ion oes not ire hat all rly led uts be tly red .
our ach is hed in his way rom any ous hes to nce ric ng; see ion 123
by nly ing rge ces een ors , we ild els hat age the ull wer of knn
the ond erm in the oss ion zes all ces een tly led xam - les .
in lar , the erm zes ons of the ity in eq .
to ify ion , we uce a new tor ble yil = 123 if and nly if yi = yl , and yil = 123 ise .
in rms of his ion , the ond erm of the oss ion e ush is ven by :
e ush ( l ) = ( cid : 123 )
i , j i
( 123 yil ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 +kl ( ~ xi ~ x j ) 3kl ( ~ xi ~ xl ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) +
ere the erm ( z ) + = max ( z , 123 ) tes the ard nge oss .
the nge oss ors the in - ity in eq .
if the ity oes not old ( i . e . , the put ~ xl ies a afe nce way rom ~ xi ) , hen its nge oss has a ive ent and kes no ion to the all oss unc -
ger and aul
the ( sub - ) ent of eq .
( 123 ) tes a ing rce hat els ers way rom the ter hed by ach les k est ( rly led ) rs; see fig
the ice of nit gin is an ary ion hat ets the ale for the ear rma - ion l ( ich ers ery her erm in the oss ion ) .
if a gin c > 123 was ced ead of the nit gin , the oss ion uld be zed by the ame ear ion up to an all ale tor c .
lly , we ine the two rms e ull ( l ) and e ush ( l ) nto a gle oss ion for nce ric ing .
the two rms can ave ing sto act get ors on one and , to pel ors on the her .
a ing ter ( 123 , 123 ) ces ese als :
e ( l ) = ( 123 ) e ull ( l ) + e ush ( l ) .
lly , the ter can be ned via oss ion , ugh in our nce , the lts rom ing the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) did not end ely on the lue of .
in ice , the lue = 123 ked ell .
the ing rms in eq .
( 123 ) are ous to ose in the oss ion for ing in vms ( opf and ola , 123 ) .
in oth oss ons , one erm zes the orm of the ame - ter tor ( i . e . , the ght tor of the mum gin ane , or the ear ion in the nce ric ) , ile the her urs the nge oss .
ust as the nge oss in vms is nly red by les ear the ion ary , the nge oss in eq .
( 123 ) is nly red by tly led les hat ade ach ers ods .
oth oss ons in vms and mnn can be ten to end on the put ors nly ugh eir ner cts .
ork - ing ith the ner uct rix tly ows the ion of the nel ck; see ion 123 .
lly , as in vms , we can ate the ion of the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) as a vex ion .
his ast int ill be ped her in ion 123 .
our ork for nce ric ing des an ive to the ier ach of nca ( ger et al . , 123 ) bed in ion 123 .
we iey are the two hes at a igh vel .
oth mnn and nca are ned to arn a bis nce ric ver the put ace hat ves knn ion at est ime .
ugh est les are not ble ing ing , the ing hms for mnn and nca are sed on ing in ted est ons .
her ach tly zes the ave - one - out 123 for knn ion ver the ing set .
the ave - one - out ror is a ise ant but non - oth ion of the ear ion l , ing it ult to ize tly .
nca ses tic ood ent to uct a oth oss ion , hus ing his lem .
mnn ses the nge oss to uct an per und on the ave - one - out ror for knn on; his up - per und is ous and rly ell ved for ard ent - sed ods .
in nca , it is not ary to ect a xed ber k of get ors in nce of the ion .
use the ive ion for nca is not vex , ver , the ial ons for the aha - bis ric tly vor the ion of ain ods ver ers .
by ast , in mnn , the get ods ust be tly ied .
a ial age of mnn is hat the red ion can be ted as an nce of ite ing .
nce ric ing
123 - nn est ror :
ure 123 : a toy ata set for nce ric ing , ith n = 123 ata nts led rom a bi - dal ion .
hin ach ode , les rom two ses are ted in ing cal pes .
the ure ows the ant xis ted by ral ent hms for nce ric ing .
nly nca and mnn uce the 123 - nn ion ror on his ata et; the her hms lly ase the ror by ing on bal sus cal ces .
123 cal sus bal ces
we ize hat the oss ion for mnn ion nly zes rge ces een get ors as sed to all les in the ame ass .
the toy ata set in fig .
123 tes the ial ges of his ach .
the ata was ted by ing 123 ata nts rom two ses in a bra ped rn; lly , the ata for ach ass was ted in two ets of pes ced by a rge tal set .
as a ult , his ata set has the rty hat hin - ass nce is uch ger in the tal ion han the cal on; ver , cal ass hip is uch ore bly ted by les hat are rby in the cal
hms uch as mnn and nca orm ery tly on his ata set han hms uch as lda , rca , and mcc .
in lar , mnn and nca apt to the cal ped ure in the ata set and arn nce ics hat tly uce the knn ror ate .
by ast , lda , rca , and mcc mpt to ink ces een all les in the ame ass and lly ase the knn ror ate as a ult .
ugh his ata set is lly ved , it tes in ral the ems sed by ses ith dal ort .
uch ses ate a sic ion ind ric ing hms hat mpt to ink bal ces een all rly led les .
his is the ber of ing les hat uld ave een led by knn ion if eir bel was in
e ( m ) = ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
dm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) + ( cid : 123 )
ger and aul
123 vex ion
the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) is not vex in the rix nts of the ear ion l .
to ize his oss ion , one ard ach is ent ent in the nts of l .
ver , uch an ach is one to ing ped in cal ima .
the lts of his orm of ent ent ill end in ral on the ial tes for l .
hus hey may not be ble oss ent ems and ons .
we can ome ese ies by ing the ion of eq .
( 123 ) as an nce of ite ing ( oyd and ghe , 123 ) .
a ite ram ( sdp ) is a ear ram hat tes an nal int on a ric rix ose nts are ear in the own les .
his nal int res the rix to be ive ite , or in her rds , to nly ave ive ues .
his rix int is ear but vex , so hat the all ion ins vex .
ere ist bly ent hms to lve dps ( ith ial ime nce ees ) .
we gin by ing eq .
( 123 ) as an ion ver ive ite ces .
lly , as bed in eq .
( 123 ) , we ork in rms of the new ble m = ll .
ith his nge of ble , we can ite the red ces hat ear in the oss ion ing eq .
all hat dm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) tes the red nce ith ect to the bis met - ric m .
as own in ion 123 , his nce is ent to the ean nce ter the ing ~ xi l ~ xi .
ing eq .
( 123 ) nto eq .
( 123 ) , we ain the oss ion :
i , j i
i , j i
( 123 yil ) ( 123 + dm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) dm ( ~ xi , ~ xl ) ) + .
ith his ion , the oss ion is now sed ver ive ite ces m ( cid : 123 ) 123 , as sed to eal - ued ces l .
ote hat the int m ( cid : 123 ) 123 ust be ded to the pti - ion to ure hat we arn a ell - ned ric .
the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) is a ise ear , vex ion of the nts in the rix m .
in lar , the rst erm in the oss ion ( ing rge ces een get igh - ors ) is ear in the nts of m , ile the ond erm ( ing ors ) is ved rom the vex nge oss .
to ate the ion of eq .
( 123 ) as an sdp , ver , we eed to ert it nto a ore ard orm .
an sdp is ned by ing ack les ich mic the ect of the nge oss .
in lar , we uce ive ack les ( x i jl ) for all ets of get ors ( j i ) and ors ~ xl .
the ack ble x i 123 is sed to ure the unt by ich the rge gin ity in eq .
( 123 ) is ted .
ing the ack les to tor ese gin ons , we ain the sdp :
i , j i ( ~ xi ~ x j ) m ( ~ xi ~ x j ) + ( cid : 123 )
ize ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( 123 ) ( ~ xi ~ xl ) m ( ~ xi ~ xl ) ( ~ xi ~ x j ) m ( ~ xi ~ x j ) 123 x i jl 123 ( 123 ) m ( cid : 123 ) 123
i , j i , l ( 123 yil ) x
i jl ect to :
ile dps in his orm can be ved by ard ver ges , ral - ose ers end to ale rly in the ber of nts .
for his ork , we ted our own ial - i jl ) ver ain ive ues .
i jl ) are rse use ost uts ~ xi and ~ xl are ell ted ive to the
ose ver , ing the act hat ost of the ack les ( x the ack les ( x
nce ric ing
nce een ~ xi and any of its get ors ~ x j .
uch ets do not cur a ive nge oss , ing in ery few ive nts in the sdp .
hus , a eat dup can be ved by ing an sdp hat nly ors a ion of the gin nts , hen ing the ing ion as a ing int for the ual sdp of est .
our ver was sed on a ion of sub - ent ent in oth the ces l and m , the ter sed nly to ify hat we had hed the bal mum .
we ted tes in m ack nto the ive ite one ter ach tep .
ing ion hms bly rge ( ghe and oyd , 123 ) , and in his ase our 123 ked uch ter han ric ers .
for a ore led ion of the ver ase see dix a .
123 rgy sed ion
the rix m hat zes the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) can be sed as a bis nce ric for knn ion .
ver , it is lso ble to use the oss ion tly as a so - led rgy - sed ier .
his use is red by ous ork on rgy - sed els ( pra et al . , 123 ) .
rgy - sed ion of a est ple is one by ing it as an tra ing ex - ple and ing the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) for ery ble bel yt .
in lar , for a est ple ~ xt ith cal bel yt , we ate k ( rly led ) get ors ( as ned by ean nce to ~ xt or her a ori ons ) and hen ute oth rms in eq .
( 123 ) ven the ady ted bis ric m .
for the rst erm , we ate the red ces to the k get ors of ~ xt .
for the ond erm , we ate the nge oss ver all ors ( i . e . , tly led les ) hat ade the ter und ~ xt as ned by its get rs; we lso ate the nge oss for tly led les ose ers are ded by ~ xt .
lly , the est ple is ied by the cal bel hat zes the ion of ese rms :
yt = nyt ( ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
i , j i
( ytl ) ( +dm ( ~ xt , ~ x j ) dm ( ~ xt , ~ xl ) ) +
dm ( ~ xt , ~ x j ) + ( cid : 123 ) ( yit ) ( +dm ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) dm ( ~ xi , ~ xt ) ) + ) .
ote hat the ion j t in his ion nds on the lue of yt .
as own in fig .
123 , rgy - sed ion ith his ent ule lly ads to her nts in est ror tes .
ten ese nts are tly ond ose ady ved by ing the bis nce ric m for knn ion .
we ted mnn ion on ine ata ets of ing ize and lty .
ome of ese ata ets ere ved rom ons of ges , ech , and ext , ing ery igh nal in ese ses , we sed pca to uce the ity of the uts ore ing mnn ers .
pre - ing the uts ith pca ped to uce ion ime and oid ing .
ble 123 res the ent ata ets in ail .
a lab ion is tly ble at ttp : / / www . web . net / ads / mnn . tml .
ger and aul
ure 123 : ing and est lts on the ve est ata ets , sed in ent ays , and ing ent nts of knn ion .
we red pal ent sis ( pca ) , ear ant sis ( lda ) , ant ent sis ( rca ) , rge gin est bor ion ( mnn ) , mnn ith ple ses ( mp - mnn ) , mnn ith ple ics ( mm - mnn ) , lti - ass ort tor nes ( svm ) , mnn ica - ion ith the rgy sed ion ule ( mnn ( rgy ) ) .
all ons of mnn , rca and lda ere ied ter pre - ing ith pca for ral ise ion .
see ext and ble 123 for ils .
the mnn lts tly orm pca and lda .
the ple ics ion of mnn ( mm - mnn ) is ble ith ass svm on ost ata ets ( ith ews and ces as nly ons ) .
tal lts ere ned by ing ver ple uns on mly ted 123 / 123 its of ach ata set .
his ure was wed ith two ons : no ing was one for the let and ist ata ets , ich ave pre - ned ing / est its .
for all per - nts ted in his per , the ber of get ors k was set to k = 123 , and the ing ter in eqs .
( 123 - 123 ) was set to 123 .
ugh we ted ith ent ngs , the lts rom mnn ion red rly ive to the ues of ese ers .
the ain lts on the ve est ata ets are own in fig .
( see ble 123 for a ete ing of lts , ing ose for ous ons of mnn ion bed in sec - ion 123 ) all ing ror tes ted are ave - one - out tes .
to eak ies ong ent
nce ric ing
ses rom the knn ion ule , we dly ced the ood ize , ely las - ing ( if ary ) by ust the k = 123 est bor .
we gin by ing all nds , hen uss the lts on ual ata ets in ore ail .
the rst ral end is hat mnn ion ing bis ces tly ves on knn ion ing ean ces .
in ral , the bis ics ned by ite ing led to ant nts in knn ion , oth in ing and ing .
a ond ral end is hat the rgy - sed ion ule bed in ion 123 ads to her nts ver the ( ady ved ) lts rom knn ion ing aha - bis ces .
in lar , ter nce was ved on ost of the rge ata ets .
the lts are own in fig
a ird ral end is hat mnn ion rks ter ith pca han lda hen ome orm of ity ion is red for ing .
ble 123 ows the lts of mnn ion on uts ose ity was ced by lda .
ile pre - ing by lda lps on ome ata ets ( e . g . , ine , ale ces ) , it lly ads to rse lts han pre - ing by pca .
on ome ata ets , ver , it ads to lly rse lts ( e . g . , tti ces , ist ) .
tly we sed pca as a pre - ing tep for all ent nts out his per .
a rth ral end is hat mnn ion lds ger nts on ger ata ets .
ugh we do not ave a mal sis hat nts for his ion , we can ide the ing ive ion .
one ial ect of the ion in mnn ion is the ice of the get ors .
in all of our nts , we ose the get ors sed on ean nce in the put ace ( ter ity ion by pca or lda ) .
his ice was a ple tic sed in the nce of ior dge .
ver , the ity of his ice bly nds on the ple ity of the ata set .
in lar , as the ple ity ses , we ect hat ore ble ive als can be ned rom get ors sen in his way .
the tal lts ear his out .
lly , we are our lts to ose of ing ods .
we ake lti - ass vms ( mer and ger , 123 ) as ing a air ion of the ate - of - the - art .
on ach ata set ( ept ist ) , we ned lti - ass vms ing ear , ial and rbf els and ose the est nel ith oss ion .
on ist , we sed a non - ous ial nel of ree our , ich ave us our est lts , as lso ted in cun et al .
( 123 ) .
the lts of the rgy - sed mnn ier are ery ose to ose of ate - of - the - art lti - ass vms : ter on ome ata ets , rse on ers .
ver , ent ent ver lti - ass vms was ned by a ple - ric ant of mnn , sed in ion 123 .
his lti - ric ion med vms on ree of the ve rge ata ts; see fig .
on the nly ata set ith a rge nce nce , 123 - ups , the lti - ass vms ted rom ing in the nal d = 123 nal put ace , eas the mnn ers ere ned nly on the uts ing d = 123 pal nts .
sed on ese lts , in ion 123 , we est ome ons hat eem rly ell ted to mnn ion , ugh rly ted to vms .
ese are ons ith ate put ity , but rge ers of ses .
to are ith ous ork , we lso ted rca ( tal et al . , 123 ) , lda ( her , 123 ) and nca ( ger et al . , 123 ) on the ame ata ets .
for nca and rca , we sed the ode ded by the rs; ver , the nca ode ran out of ory on the ger ata ets .
ger and aul
ble 123 ows the lts of all hms on all and ger ata ets .
mnn rms ese her ods for nce ric ing on the our est ata ets .
in rms of ing mes , rca is by far the est hod ( nce its ons can be ted in sed orm ) , ile nca is the est , nly due to the o ( 123 ) ion of its max ity ons .
ugh the ion in mnn ely les as o ( 123 ) , in ice it can be ted by ous ncy res : dix a ses our ite ing ver in ail .
we did lso ude the lts of mcc ( ing et al . , 123 ) ; ver , the ode ded by the ors uld nly dle a few of the all ata ets .
as own in ble 123 , on ose ata ets it ted in ion tes lly her han nca .
the lts of nts on lar ata ets ide nal ght nto the nce of mnn ion sus ing ods .
we ive a ore led iew of ese nts in hat ows .
123 all ata ets ith few ses
the ine , ris , and bal ata ets are all in ize , ith ess han 123 ing les .
ach of ese ata ets has ree ses .
the ata ets are ble rom the uci ine ing ory . 123 on ata ets of his ize , a nce ric can be ned in a ter of nds .
the lts in ble 123 ere ged ver 123 nts ith ent dom 123 / 123 its of ach ata set .
on ese ata ets , mnn ion ves on knn ion ith a ean dis - nce ric .
ese lts uld lly be ved her ith ter res nst ing ( uch as ion ) .
ble 123 lso res the lts rom mnn ion to her ing ods .
ere , the lts are hat le; red to nca , rca , lda , and ass vms , mnn res ter in ome ses , rse in ers .
we nly ort ese lts to ate ect ons ith sly hed ork .
ver , the all ize of ese ata ets kes it ult to ess the nce of ese lts .
ver , ese ata ets do not ent the ime in ich we ect mnn ion to be ost ful .
123 ace ion the tti ace ion ata 123 ins 123 ale ges of 123 cts in 123 fer - ent ses .
we led the ges to 123 123 els and sed pca to her uce the ity , ing the ges nto the ace ned by the rst 123 ces ( urk and and , 123 ) .
ing and est ets ere ted by mly ing 123 ges of ach ect for ing and 123 ges for ing .
the ask ved 123 - way lly , ing a ace rom an een ose .
ble 123 ows the nts due to mnn ssi - ion .
123 tes the nts ore lly by ing how the k = 123 est ors nge as a ult of ing a bis ric .
( ugh the thm ted on led , ted ges , for ity the ure ows the nal ges . )
the ( ded ) ale ace ata set ins n = 123 tal ges of 123 cts .
for ach ( a few cts are ect , ere are 123 ges ken der eme ion ons .
ted ith wer ges . ) as for the tti ata set , we sed the ges by own - ing and ing hem nto eir ing 123 pal nts .
to uce the act of the ery igh nce in ion , we wed the ard ice of ing the ing 123
ble at ttp : / / www . ics . uci . edu / arn / ory . tml .
ble at ttp : / / www . uk . rch . att . com / ase . tml .
nce ric ing
ors .
lts rom mnn ion ere ged ver 123 uns of 123 / 123 its .
ach lit was ned by mly ing 123 ges of ach ect for ing and 123 ges for ing .
his col red hat the ing les ere nly ted oss the ela - ely rge ber of ses .
to ard nst ing , we yed a ion set ing of 23% of the ing ata and ped the ing rly hen the est ion ror on the ion set was hed .
on his ata set , fig .
123 ows hat the mnn ric rms the ean ric and ven ves on ass vms .
( rly ive on his ata set , ugh , is the ple egy of lda . )
ect ass ber hat
ame one of the 123 - nn
der the ned
tor der ean
123 - nn , hat was ved out of the ood der the ned bis ric .
ure 123 : est ges rom the tti ace ion ata set ( top row ) .
the dle row ows ges rom the ame ass hat ere ong the 123 - nn der the ned bis ric ( ter ing ) but not ong the nal 123 - nn der the ean ric ( ore ing ) .
the tom row ows ors der the ean ric hat ere no ger ide the cal ods der the bis ric .
123 ken ter ion
the let ata set rom the uci ine ing ory ins 123 les and 123 ses ing to ers of the bet .
we ced the put ity ( lly at 123 ) by ing the ata nto its ing 123 pal ugh to unt for 23% of its tal nce .
on his ata set , ich and iri ort est ror tes of 23% ing ear ion rks ith 123 put its ( one per ass ) and 23% ing ear ion rks ith a 123 - bit ror ing ode ( ich and iri , 123 ) .
mnn ith rgy - sed ion ins a est ror ate of 23% .
123 ter ion
the ter ion ata set was lso ken rom the uci ine ing ory .
it con - ins mly ted ges of the 123 ers in the ish bet in 123 ent nts .
the res ist of 123 tes , uch as ght , dth , ons of xes and ers . 123 it is ter -
ull ils on the ata set can be und at ttp : / / www . ics . uci . edu / arn / ses /
ger and aul
ing hat mnn ith rgy - sed ion tly rms her nts of knn ion on his ata set .
ure 123 : ges rom the ist ata set , ong ith est ors ore and ter ing .
123 ext ion
the 123 - ups ata set sts of ted les rom 123 ups , ith hly 123 les per oup .
we sed the 123 - ion of the ata 123 in ich oss - ngs are ved and ome ers ped out .
the ata set was zed ing the bow age ( lum , 123 ) .
ach cle was lly ted by a ord - unt tor for the 123 , 123 ost mon rds in the ary .
ese ord - unt ors ere hen ced in ity by ing hem nto eir ing 123 pal nts .
the lts in fig .
123 ere ned by ing ver 123 uns ith 123 / 123 its for ing and est ata .
the est ult for mmn on his ata set ved tly ver knn ion ing ean ces and pca ( ith 23% sus 23% and 23% est ror tes ) .
mnn was med by ass svm ( mer and ger , 123 ) , ich ned a 23% est ror ate ing a ear nel and 123 nal uts . 123
123 ten git ion the ist ata set of ten 123 has een ely ked ( cun et al . , 123 ) .
we wed the nal 123 ale ges , hen ced eir ity by ing hem nto eir ing 123 pal nts ( ugh to ure 23% of the tas all
ble at ttp : / / ple . ail . mit . edu / nie / ups / .
lts ary rom ous ork ( ger et al . , 123 ) due to ent pre - ing .
ble at ttp : / / ann . cun . com / xdb / ist / .
nce ric ing
ark est ror tes
# ced ons # ing les # ing les # of ain / est its
mnn ( ple ses ) mnn ( ple ics )
cpu ime ( 23m ) cpu ime ( mm ) # ive nts ( 23m ) # ive nts ( mm )
ger ata ets
ler ata ets
ble 123 : lts and ics rom all nts .
the ata ets are ted by est to all - est rom eft to ght .
the ble ows ata ics and ror tes rom ent ari - nts of mnn ing ( gle - ass , lti - ass , lti - ric ) , ing ( knn ion ule , rgy - sed ion ) , and ing ( pca , lda ) .
lts rom rca , nca and ass ort tor nes ( vms ) are lso ded for son .
see ion 123 for ion of lti - ass and lti - ric mnn ing .
ger and aul
ive ion ror ith ple uns of mnn
ure 123 : the ive nge of the 123 - nn ion ror ter ple uns of mnn ver a
gle run of mnn .
nce ) .
rgy - sed mnn ion ded a est ror ate at 23% , ing the ine knn ror ate by ver one - ird .
her ble rks ( cun et al . , 123 ) ( not ing nal ior dge ) ude yer ral ets at 23% and vms at 23% .
123 ows ome its ose est bor ged as a ult of ing , rom a tch ing ean ces to a tch ing bis ces .
ble 123 als hat the mnn ror can be her ced by ing a ent nce ric for ach git ass .
his is sed her in ion 123 .
in his ion , we ate our ons ned to ove mnn ion .
ion 123 nes the act of ple ive ons of mnn on one ata set .
ion 123 ows how to arn ple ( lly ear ) ics ead of a gle bal ric .
ion 123 ses how to ize the thm for mnn ion and ews ary ork by ani and lee ( 123 ) .
lly , ion 123 tes the use of mnn as a hod for sed ity ion .
123 lti - ass mnn
one ial ess of mnn is hat get ors ust be a ori ied .
in the ab - nce of ior dge , a ult ice is to use ean ces to ine get est ors .
ile the get est ors are xed ing ing , ver , the ual est ors may nge as a ult of the ear ion of the put ace .
ese ges est an ive ach , in ich the bis ces ned in one ion ( or ass ) of mnn are sed to ine the get est ors in a ent run of the al - thm .
ore lly , let lp be the ion rix ned rom the pth ass of mnn .
for the ( 123 ) th ass , we can ign get ors ing the ean nce ric ter the ear ion ~ xi 123 . . 123 ~ xi ( ith 123 = i ) .
to ate his ach , we med ple ses of mnn on all the ata ets rom ble 123
the ter k was set to k = 123
ure 123 ows the ive nts in knn ssi -
nce ric ing
123 - nn ror : 23%
123 - nn ror : 23%
123 - nn ror : 23%
ure 123 : a tic ata set to ate the ial of ple ics .
the ata set sts of uts led rom two ric les , ach of ich nes a ent ass hip .
mnn ing was sed to ate one bal ric , as ell as ple cal ics .
eft : a gle ear ric not del the non - ear ion ary .
the ave - one - out ( loo ) ror is 23% .
dle : if the ata set is ded nto two ers ( by k - ans ) , and a cal ric ned hin ach ter , the ror ate ops lly .
ght : the use of ree ics ces the loo - ror on the ing set to ero .
the pal ons of ual nce ics are ted by ows .
ion ror tes on the ve est ata ets .
( ere , a lue of one tes hat ple ses of mnn did not nge the ror ate , ile a lue ess han one tes an ent . ) on ese ata ets , ple ses of mmn ere lly ful , mes tly im - ing the lts .
on ler ata ets , ugh , the lti - ass egy med one to ert .
ble 123 ows the ute lts on all ata ets rom ple ses of mnn ( ted by
a ter egy for ing get ors ins an pen ion .
his ect of mnn ion ers tly rom nca , ich oes not ire the ice of get ors .
in act , nca lso nes the ive ood ize as art of its ion .
on the her and , the ion in nca is not ex; as uch , the ial ons tly ify a sin of ion hat nes the nal ult .
in mnn ion , the get ors are xed in der to ain a vex ion .
his ade - off is ent of her vex ons of lly ard ems in ine ing .
123 lti - ric mnn
on ome ata ets , a bal ear ion of the put ace may not be tly ful to ove knn ion .
ure 123 ows an ple of a tic ata set for ich a gle ric is not ent .
the ata set sts of uts led rom two ric les , ach of ich nes a ent ass hip .
bal ear ons not ove the acy of knn ion of his ata set .
in ral , hly ear ass ion ies may not be ell led by a gle bis nce ric .
ger and aul
in ese ons , one ful ion of mnn is to arn ple lly ear rma - ons ead of a gle bal ear ion .
in his ion , we how how to arn ent bis nce ics for ent les in the put ace .
the dea of ing lly ear nce ics for knn ion is at ast a ade old ( tie and ani , 123 ) .
it has lso een red ore tly in the ext of ric ing for emi - sed lus - ing ( nko et al . , 123 ) .
the lty of our ach ies in ing ese ics lly to ize the gin of ect knn ion .
as a rst tep , we ion the ing ata nto int ers ing k - ans , ral ing ( shi and lik , 123 ) , or bel ion .
( in our nce , the ter ems to ork est . ) we hen arn a bis nce ric for ach ter .
ile the ing ure les the nce ics in ent ers , the op - ion ins a vex lem in ite ing .
the lly ted ing of cal nce ics lso hes our ach rom ier ork ( tie and ani ,
ore ing his dea ore lly , we rst ate its ial in a toy ing ely , on the ata set in fig .
for his ata set , mnn ing was sed to ate one bal ric , as ell as ple cal ics ( as bed low ) .
ter ies in the put ace ere ned by the k - ans thm .
we red the ave - one - out ( loo ) ing ror ( ith k = 123 est ors ) ter ing one , two and ree ics .
ith one ric , the ror was 3%; ith two ics , it ped to 3%; lly , ith ree ics , it hed her .
the ure tes how the ple ics apt to the cal ure of the ass ion
in der to arn ent bis ics in ent rts of the put ace , we ize a ion of the ive ion in eq .
we ote the ent ics by 123 , .
, mc , ere c is the ber of ers .
if we ion the ing les by eir ass els , hen c lso des ith the ber of es; his was one for the ing nts in his ion .
in his ase , as the ter hat ins ~ xi is xed by its bel yi , we can fer to its ric as myi .
we her ene the ter - ent nce een two ors ~ xi and ~ x j as :
d ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) = ( ~ xi ~ x j ) my j ( ~ xi ~ x j ) .
ote hat his ter - ent ure of nce d ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) is not ric ith ect to its put nts .
in a ght use of ogy , ver , we ill nue to fer to eq .
( 123 ) as a nce ic; the try is not red for its use in knn ion .
to arn ese ics rom ata , we lve a ied ion of the nal sdp :
ize ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
i jl 123
i , j i ( ~ xi ~ x j ) my j ( ~ xi ~ x j ) + ( cid : 123 )
j i , l ( 123 yil ) x ( 123 ) ( ~ xi ~ xl ) myl ( ~ xi ~ xl ) ( ~ xi ~ x j ) my j ( ~ xi ~ x j ) 123 x ( 123 ) mi ( cid : 123 ) 123 for i = 123 ,
ote hat all the ces mi are ned sly by ing a gle sdp .
his ap - ach res the ncy of nce ons in ent ers : for ple , the nce rom a est ple to ing les ith ent els .
the ted ing of ent ics is ary to ate ese ces on the ame le; if the ics ere
nce ric ing
ned tly , hen the ces ted by ent ics uld not be lly sly , a ial ent for knn ion .
ure 123 : ple cal nce ics ned for a ata set ing of ten its our ,
two , one and ero .
123 tes the ple ics ned rom an age ata set of our ent and - ten its : ero , one , our , and two .
the lot ows the rst two pal nts of the ata .
nly ese pal nts ere sed in ing in der to eld an ily zed ion .
the ion can be zed by ing the ics as ids red at the ass ans .
the ids how the ect on a nit cle of ach cal ear ion ned by mnn .
the ine ide ach oid tes its pal xis .
we ted ith his lti - ric ion of mnn on all of the ata ets rom ion 123
to oid ing , we eld out 23% of ach ata ets ing les and sed hem as a ion set .
we ned one ric per ass .
to eed up ing , we zed the lti - ric ion by ing ach ass - ent ric to the ion rom mnn ion ith a gle bal nce ric .
ble 123 rts the ror tes and her lts rom all ese nts ( der mm - mnn ) .
the ing mes for mm - mnn ude the ime red to ute the ial ric ngs rom the ion in eq
123 ows the ive ent in 123 - nn ion ror tes rom lti - ric mnn ver ard mnn on the ve est ata ets .
the ple ics ant ves ver ard mnn on ery ata set .
the est ult urs on the ist ten its ata set , ere mm - mnn ned a 23% knn ion ror ate , tly orm - ing lti - ass vms .
ver , the ent rom lti - ric mnn is not as tly ved hen the rgy - sed ion ule is sed for ion .
ger and aul
ive ion ror ith ple ics
ure 123 : ive ent in knn ion ror tes ing ple ics ver ror
tes ing a gle ric .
123 nel ion
mnn can lso be ded by ing nel ods ( opf and ola , 123 ) to ork in a ear ure ace , as sed to the nal put ace .
the dea of ing a nel rix has een red in her xts ( wok and ang , 23; iet et al . , 23; rma and ray , 123 ) , rly rge gin ion by ort tor nes .
his dea for mnn has een ted in ail by ani and lee ( 123 ) .
the nel ick is sed to map the uts ~ xi nto her ( bly ite ) nal ure ors f ( ~ xi ) .
to oid the nal ost of ing tly ith ese ure ors , hey are nly sed ugh eir ner cts , ich are pre - ted and red in the nel rix :
ki j = f ( ~ xi ) f ( ~ x j ) .
ote how in eq .
( 123 ) , the uts ~ xi are nly sed in rms of the ces in eq .
ani lm lmf ( ~ xl ) f ( ~ xm ) , ere the and lee ( 123 ) red bis ics of the orm m = ( cid : 123 ) rix a is ned to be ive ite .
hey wed hat the ent of eq .
( 123 ) ith ect to the rix a can be ten ely in rms of the nts of the nel rix .
hus , a zed ion of mnn can be ted tly in the ame way as nel pca ( opf et al . , 123 ) , out ver ing tly in the igh nal ure ace .
ani and lee ( 123 ) how hat the zed ion of mnn can ead to ant her nts , but at the ost of sed ion .
the sed ion is due to the ize of the rix hat ust be ned in his ing : the rix a has o ( 123 ) nts ead of o ( 123 ) .
( ver , the nel ion uld ire ess ion in ons ere n < d . ) ore ils on the zed ion of mnn can be und in eir per .
123 ity ion
ten it is ful to ate low nal ons of igh nal ata .
ese rep - ons can be sed to ize the ata and / or to ate hms ose ime ity
nce ric ing
les ith the put ity .
in ion 123 , for ple , we ill ate how to cel - ate the knn rch in mnn ion by ing the ing ata nto a low nal
low nal ons of uts can be ved rom the ear ion ~ xi l ~ xi in mnn ion .
his can be one in two ays .
the rst way is to ect the ans - med uts nto eir ing pal nts .
ote hat if the uts are ned ior to ing eq .
( 123 ) , hen ese pal nts are ven ply by the ing ors of the are rix l .
her way to ive low nal ons is to ild his oal tly nto the ion for mnn ion .
in lar , we can mpt to ize eq .
( 123 ) ith ect to l ( her han ith ect to m = ll ) and ain l to be lar of ize r d , ere r is the red put ity ( med to be uch ler han the put ity , d ) .
the ion in rms of l is not vex , but in ice ( ani and lee , 123 ) , it oes not ear to fer rom ery oor cal ima .
in the ing ion , we use and are oth ese ods to ild ent ree ata res for mnn ion .
ric ees
one ent age of knn rch is its ely igh nal ity at est ime .
the est ute - rce way to ate a est les est ors is to ute its nce to all the ing les .
uch a ave ion has a est ime - ity of o ( nd ) , ere n is the ber of ing les , and d is the put ity .
one way to ate knn rch is to ate the put ace uch hat the ate xes are ned ith the tas pal nts .
uch a ion rts the put tes by de - ing ce; see ion 123 . 123
his ing can be sed to une ary ons in knn rch .
in lar , for any est ple , a est bor ery sts of ing the nce to ach ing ple and ing his nce to the k est les ady ted .
the nce ion to a lar ing ple can be ted pon min - ing hat it ies her way han the k est les ady ted .
hen the ate xes are ned ith the pal nts , his ion can ten be ade ter ing ust a few of the ing , oad - ing ons .
we ave sed his ion in our ine ion of knn rch .
lly ere are two jor hes to ain nal eed - ups .
the rst ach is to uce the put ity d .
the son - uss mma ( pta and pta , 123 ) tes hat n nts can be ped nto a ace of ity o ( log ( n ) e 123 ) uch hat the ces een any two nts ges nly by a tor of ( 123 e ) .
hus we can ten uce
the ity of the put ata out ing the est bor ons .
( ote lso hat for knn ion , we may ate act est bor ons if hey do not ead to ant ors in ion . ) the ond ach to eed up knn rch is to ild a ted ree - sed ata ure for ing ing les .
uch a ata ure can uce the est bor est ime ity in ice to o ( d log n ) ( mer et al . , 123 ) .
his ter hod rks est for low nal ata .
123 res a ine ion of knn rch sus one sed on all ees ( liu et al . , 23; dro , 123 ) .
ote how the eed - up rom the all ees is ied by ity ion of the uts .
ger and aul
123 - nn ion ith all ree ata ure
ure 123 : ive eed - up for 3nn ion ned rom ent nal ons of ist ten its nto eir ing pal nts .
for ese per - nts , the d = 123 nal uts rom the raw ges ere ted nto the ber of pal nts own on the x - xis .
the ure res the eed - ups hen all ees are sed ( lue ) sus hen all ees are not sed ( red ) in the wer nal ace .
ote how the ins rom all ees ish ith ing men - ity .
all the nn ons in ese nts ere ted by ing the ate xes ong pal nts , as bed in ion 123
in his ion , we ore the use of all ees for mnn ion and ity re - ion .
we nd hat all ees can be sed for oth ter ing and ing of mnn ers .
123 iew of all ees
ral ors ave sed ree - sed ata res to eed up knn rch .
les are kd - ees ( man et al . , 123 ) , all ees ( liu et al . , 23; dro , 123 ) and ver - ees ( mer et al . , 123 ) .
all ese ata res oit the ame dea : to ion the put ace ata nto lly ted ing ons .
the ing ons are set up to tee hat the nce rom a est ple to a ing ple ide the ing ion is at ast as rge as the nce rom the est les to the ons ary .
hus , for ach est ple , the ing les ide the ing ion can be led out as k est ors if k ing les ave ady een und hat are ser han the ons ary .
in his ase , the knn rch can eed out tly ing the ces to ing les in the ing ion .
his ing of nce ons ten ads to a ant dup in knn ion ime .
we ted ith all ees ( liu et al . , 123 ) , in ich the ing ons are per - res .
123 tes the sic dea ind all ees .
if a set s of ing les is ted ide a all ith ter ~ c and ius r , uch hat ~ x s : k ~ x ~ ck r , hen for any est ple ~ xt we can und the nce to any ing ple ide the all by the ing
all ees oit his ity to ild a cal ata ure .
the ata ure is sed
~ xi s k ~ xt ~ xik max ( k ~ xt ~ 123 r , 123 ) .
nce ric ing
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) xt ( cid : 123 ) c ( cid : 123 ) r
ure 123 : the sic dea ind all ees : for any ing ple ~ xi ide the all we can und the nce k ~ xt ~ 123 rom low ing ( 123 ) .
if her ing ple ~ x j der the all is ady own to be ser han his und to the est ple ~ xt , hen the ing les ide the all can be led out as est ors .
on ely ing the ing les nto two int ets .
the ets are ted by res ( or lls ) ich may be lly ing .
the ing les are ely ded nto ler and ler ets til no eaf set ins ore han ome ned ber
rom his cal ata ure , the k - est ors of a est ple can be und by a ard pth - rst ree - sed rch .
all hat ach ode in the ree has an ted per - ere hat ses the ing les red by its nts .
the knn rch eds by ing the ree and ing a est les nce to the ter of ach des ere .
the ree is sed by ily ing sub - ees in der of his nce .
ore ing a ree , ver , eq .
( 123 ) is ked to ine her ing les in the ree lie her way han the tly ted k - est ors .
if his is rue , the sub - ree is ned rom the rch out her ion .
hen a eaf ode is hed , all the ing les at the eaf ode are red to the tly ted k - est ors , and the tes are ted as ary .
ote hat all ees ort act ies for knn rch .
as ted out ier , and as ted by fig .
123 , all ees eld the est ins in knn rch ime for low nal ata .
hen the ata is igh nal , the rch is ued by the so - led rse of ity ( dyk and ani , 123 ) .
in lar , the ces een igh nal nts end to be ore orm , eby ing the ies for ing ees in the pth - rst rch .
123 all ees for mnn ing
the ost lly ive art of mnn ing is ing the ent of the lty for gin ons in eq .
the ent ion res a rch ver all irs of tly led les to ine if any of hem are ors ( see ion 123 ) hat cur gin ons .
the ver bed in dix a ces the ber of ese hes by ing an ive ist of ous gin ons .
ess , his rch les o ( 23d ) , ich is ery lly ive for rge ata ets .
all ees can be sed to her eed up the rch for ors .
all how ors ere ned in ion 123 .
for any ing ple ~ xi , and for any rly led ple ~ x j hat
ger and aul
ure 123 : the ive eed - up ned ing all ees to rch for gin ons .
the eed - up was red on the ist ata set of ten its , ith uts of ing ity ved rom pca .
ote how the ins rom all ees ish ith ing put ity .
is one of its get k - est ors ( ith j i ) , the ors ist of all tly led les ~ xl ( ith yil = 123 ) hat sfy eq .
all ees can be sed to rch for all ing les hat eet his ion .
as in eir use for knn rch , any ees in the pth - rst rch for ors can be ned : if for ome all the wer und ces een les is ady ter han the ght and ide of eq .
( 123 ) , hen all the les red in the ree can be led out as ors .
ote hat for ach ing ple ~ xi , we nly eed to rch for ors ong her ing les ~ xl hat ave a ent ass bel ( ith yil = 123 ) .
hus , we ild one all ree ata ure per ass and orm a ate rch for ors in ach
123 ows the ive eed - up hen all ees are sed to rch for gin ons in mnn ion .
the ure ows lts rom nts ith the ist ges of ten its .
for ese nts , the ges ere ted nto ces of ing ity ing pca .
the ins rom all ees in his ext are ant , ugh not as tic as ose in fig .
123 for ple knn rch .
the ser ins for mnn ion can be ted to the mum ced gin of nit nce , ich mes ses a igh ber of sub - ees to be sed .
his ect is led by the ive ude of the nit in; it can be lly set by ing the put ata by a ant tor ore ing .
123 all ees for mnn ing
all ees can lso be sed to ate knn rch at est ime .
we ave ved ier , ugh , hat the eed - up rom all ees hes kly as the put ity es; see fig .
if ery ast knn ion ing all ees is red on a rge ata set , hen ten it is ary to ork ith a wer nal ion of the ing les .
the ost nly sed ods for ity ion in all ees are dom pro - ons and pca .
her of ese ods , ver , is lly red to rve the acy of knn ion .
ere is an ent ade - off een ity ion and est
nce ric ing
123 - nn ion ter ity ion
ure 123 : aph of knn ion ror ( ith k = 123 ) on ent low nal nta - ons of the ist ata et; see ext for ils .
the eed - up rom all - ees is own at the top of the aph .
bor ion .
est bor ips can nge hen the ing les are ted nto a wer nal ace , ing in tly rse knn ion .
in his ion , we ore how the nce ric ned for mnn ion can be sed for ore ive ity ion in all ees .
in ion 123 , we bed two ent ays to ive low nal ons for mnn ion .
the rst ted a low - ank ion to the ( lly ull ank ) rix l; the ond tly ned a low - ank lar rix l by ing the non - vex oss ion in eq .
for and , we fer to ese hes for ity ion as mnn - s and mnn - r , ing her a are ( s ) or lar ( r ) rix is ned to ize the mnn ost ion .
123 ows the lts of knn ion rom oth ese ods on the ist ata set of ten its .
for ese nts , the raw ist ges ( of ize 123 123 ) ere ted nto eir 123 ing pal nts ore any ing for mnn ion .
lso own in the ure are the lts rom her ity ion ing pca , as ell as the ine knn ror ate in the nal ( igh nal ) put ace .
the are rix in mnn - s was of ize 123 123 , and for ity ion , the ata was ted nto the r ing ors of ear ion l .
the lar rix in mnn - r was of ize r 123 , ere r ied rom 123 to 123
the eed - up rom all ees is own at the top of the aph .
the unt of eed - up nds tly on the unt of ity ion , but ery tle on the lar hod of ity ion .
the lts how hat mnn can be sed ely for ity ion .
for ple , mnn - r ves a knn est ror ate of 23% in 123 ons , nly tly her han the ine ror ate of 23% in the nal put ace .
in his ace , ver , all ees eld a 23x dup ver ine knn rch .
in 123 ons , the mnn - r ror ate ops her to 23% ile ill ing a 23x eed - up .
of the ree ods red in fig .
123 , mnn - r is the ost ive .
in act , ugh ing in any wer ons , mnn - r ins lts ery ose to the est lts ted in ion 123
it is ing hat mnn - r rms mnn - s , ugh ( as ted ) eir lts rge as the lar rix in mnn - r mes ore
ger and aul
are .
ese lts how hat ive ity ion can be ned ith hly ate knn ion .
in his per , we ave ced a new ork for rge gin est bor ( mnn ) ion .
rom led ing les , we ave own how to arn a bis dis - nce ric for knn ion .
the red ion was ted as an nce of ite ing .
our ork kes no ric ons out the ure or ion of the ata and les lly to ems ith rge ber of ses .
on ple ata ets , we ave ted hat we can tly ove the acy of knn ica - ion by ing a ric in his way .
we ave lso own hat an ive rgy - sed ion ule lly ads to her nts ver nal knn ion .
ond the sic ork for mnn ion , we bed ral ful and ple - ary ons .
ese ded : ive re - ion of get bor nts , lly ted ing of ple lly ear ics , nel ods for mnn ion , low - ank nce ics for ity ion , and all ees for ore ent ent com - ons ( in ing ) and knn rch ( in ing ) .
ese ons can be ted and ned to eet the nds of lar ons .
for ple , to ild a hly ate ier out ard to the ual ion at est ime , our lts est to ain ple lly ear ics .
at the her eme , to ild a knn ier hat is as ast as ble at est ime , our lts est to ine low - ank nce ics ith all ees .
ken as a ole , our lts ate the ise and ead ity of mnn ion .
aps the est ise ies in ems ith ery rge ers of ses , uch as ace and ity ion .
the ber of ses in ese ems can be in the eds , nds , or ore .
est bor ods dle his ime ore tly han her ing ods , uch as vms .
the eas ind mnn ion ave lso een ded by ers in ous ays ( ani and lee , 23; mar et al . , 123 ) .
in the dix , we ibe a ple ver hat les ell to ems ith ens of nds of les .
a lab ion of the thm is lso ely ble ith his per .
ure ork ill ate on ral pen ems .
the ved nce ith mul - ple ics sts hat mnn ion uld net rom ven ore ive for - ons of the put ace .
it uld lso be ful to udy mmn ion in the emi - sed , ive ing , ere nly a few led uts are ble for ing but the led est set is own in nce .
lly , for any eal - rld ons in ter ion and ion val , the ata ets can be uch ger han the nes we ave ied .
for ery rge ata ets , our ent ion for mnn oes not ale as ell as ler tor ods uch as pca , lda , and rca .
it ins an ing nge to ale mnn to ven ger ata ets ith ons or ore ing les .
nce ric ing
we lly ank ohn c .
zer for his any ons to ove the thm and his ous elp ith ous ata ets .
we lso ank oby mer for any ful nts and ons .
his ork was ted by nsf ard 123
dix a .
ver
we ted our own ial - ose ver for rge - ale ems in mnn ion .
our ver was ned to oit the lar ure of the ost ion in eq .
the ver ely re - tes the bis nce ric as it pts to ize the ost ion for mnn ion .
the unt of ion is zed by ful ook - ing rom one ion to the ext .
the eed - ups rom ese ons led us to ork bly on ata ets ith up to n 123 , 123 ing les .
our ver nts an ive sub - ent ion hod to ize eq .
( 123 ) in rms of the ive ite rix m .
we fer to the bis nce ric at the tth ion as mt and to its red bis nce in eq .
( 123 ) as dt .
at ach ion , the ion kes a tep ong the sub - ent to uce the oss ion and hen cts mt nto the ble set .
in our ase , the ble set is the one of all ive ite ces s+ .
the ing ons ive the ent and ibe the ion nto s+ .
it is rth ing hat ugh we can ase the ion of eq .
( 123 ) as a def - ite ram ( by ing ive ack les to del the nge oss ) , in ice our rge - ale ver rks tly to ize eq .
the nge ses hat ear in his oss ion are not ble at all nts .
ess , use the oss ion is vex , we can ute its sub - ent and use ard ill - ing hms to nd its mum .
has een own hat uch sub - ent ods rge to the ect ion , ded hat the ent tep - ize is tly all ( oyd and ghe , 123 ) .
a . 123 ent ion
the ent ion can be one ost tly by ful ook - ing rom one ion to the ext .
as ing ion , let ci j = ( ~ xi ~ x j ) ( ~ xi ~ x j ) .
it is ard to ess the ces , as ned in eq .
( 123 ) , in rms of his ion .
in lar , at the tth ion , we ave dt ( ~ xi , ~ x j ) = tr ( tci j ) .
tly , we can ite the oss ion in eq .
( 123 ) as :
e ( mt ) = ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
i , j i
tr ( tci j ) + ( cid : 123 )
( 123 yil ) ( 123 + tr ( tci j ) tr ( cil ) ) +
ote hat eq .
( 123 ) is ise ear ith ect to mt .
let us ene a set of les n t , uch hat ( i , j , l ) n t if and nly if the ces ( i , j , l ) ger the nge oss in the ond art of eq .
ith his ion , we can ite the ent gt of e ( mt ) as :
= ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
i , j i
ci j +
( ci j cil ) .
( i , j , l ) n t
ing the ent res ing the ter cts in ci j; it hus les lly in the put ity .
as the set nt is lly ery rge , a ave ion of the ent
ger and aul
uld be ely ive .
ver , we can oit the act hat the ent ion rom ach ive let ( i , j , l ) oes not end on the ree of its gin ion .
hus , the ges in the ent rom one ion to the ext are ned ely by the ces een the ets nt and 123
we can use his act to ive an ely ent ate hat tes the ent 123 at ion t + 123 rom the ent gt at ion t .
the ate ply cts the ons rom les hat are no ger ive and dds the ons of ose hat ust
123 = gt ( cid : 123 )
( ci j cil ) + ( cid : 123 )
( ci j cil ) .
for all ent tep zes , the set nt ges ery tle rom one ion to the ext .
in his ase , ing the ght and ide of eq .
( 123 ) is ely ast .
to ate the ver ven her , we opt an ive set hod .
ote hat ing the set nt at ach ion res ing ery let ( i , j , l ) ith j i for a ial gin ion .
his ion les as o ( 123 + 23d ) , ing it cal for rge ata ets .
to oid his nal den , we oit the act hat the eat ity of les do not cur gin ons : in lar , for ach ing ple , nly a ery all ion of tly led les lly lie rby in the put ace .
tly , a ful ion is to eck nly a set of ely les for gin ons per ent ion .
we ize the ing ure by ing all les and ing an ive ist of ose ith gin ns; ver , a ull re - eck is nly ade ery 123 - 123 ons , ing on ons of the set nt .
for ate ons , we nly eck for gin ons rom ong ose ive les ted ver ous ons .
hen the ion ges , we ify hat the ing set nt oes ain all ive les hat cur gin ons .
his nal eck is ded to ure nce to the ect mum .
if the eck is not sed , the ion rts ith the wly ded ive set .
the ion of eq .
( 123 ) ust rce the int hat the rix mt ins ive emi - ite .
to rce his int , we ect mt nto the one of all ive ite ces s+ ter ach ent tep .
his ion is ted rom the ion of mt .
let mt = vd v ote the ion of mt , ere v is the mal rix of gen - ors and d is the nal rix of ing ues .
we can her ose d = d +d + , ere d + max ( d ins all the ive ues .
the ion of mt nto the one of ive ite ces is ven by :
, 123 ) ins all the ive ues and d min ( d
ps ( mt ) =vd +v .
the ion ely tes any ive ues rom the ent tep , ing hem ual to ero .
our ent ion thm ned the ate les for the ent in eq .
( 123 ) and the ion in eq .
a ied udo - ode ion is own in thm 123
we ote the ent tep - ize by a > 123
in ice , it ked est to art ith a all lue of
nce ric ing
hen , at ach ion , we sed a by a tor of 123 if the oss ion sed and sed a by a tor of 123 if the oss ion sed .
if mod ( t , ant ) = 123 ( ost ged ) ( we sed 123 ) hen
i , j i ci j ( ize ent )
thm 123 a ple ent ion udo - ode ion .
123 : 123 : = i ( ize ith the ity rix ) 123 : t : 123 ( ize ter ) 123 : n ( 123 ) , 123 : = ( ) ( ize ive ets ) 123 : 123 : = ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 : ile ( not ged ) do
ute 123 tly n ( 123 ) : = n ( t ) 123 ( ate ive set ) ute 123 123 n ( t ) ( nly rch ive set ) n ( 123 ) : = n ( t ) ( eep ive set hed ) ( i , j , l ) 123 ( ci j cil ) + ( cid : 123 )
123 : 123 : = gt ( cid : 123 ) 123 : 123 : = ps ( mt a 123 ) ( ake ent tep and ect nto sdp one ) 123 : end ile 123 : put mt
( i , j , l ) 3nt ( ci j cil )
t : = t + 123
