igh nal ata hat ies on or ear a low nal old can be bed by a ion of cal ear els .
uch a ion , ver , oes not ide a bal ion of the bly an ant oal of sed ing .
in his per , we how how to arn a ion of cal ear els hat ves his ore ult lem .
our cal ear els are ted by a ure of tor ers , and the bal ion of ese els is ved by ing a ing erm to the ard mum ood ive ion .
the zer aks a acy in the ure els ter ace , ing els ose nal ate ems are ned in a ent way .
as a ult , the nal tes nge hly and sly as one ses a ted ath on the ven hen the ath ses the ins of any ent cal els .
the zer kes the orm of a ack - ler nce and tes an ted ion of nal ods : not to orm ate nce in ble tic els , but to arn ore ful nal ons in ble nes .
ght mit ess .
int ion .
hed in ces in ral ion ing ems 123 , ume 123 , ges 123 - 123
ngs of the 3th ual ral ion ing ems ( ips ) nce , eld in ish bia , ada , rom 123 - 123 ber 123
his nce per is ble at ons : ttp : / / ory . enn . edu / ers / 123
bal ion of cal ear els
sam eis , nce k .
aul , and rey e .
ton
ent of ter nce , ity of nto
ent of ter and ion nce , ity of nia
igh nal ata hat ies on or ear a low nal old can be de - bed by a ion of cal ear els .
uch a ion , ver , oes not ide a bal ion of the bly an ant oal of sed ing .
in his per , we how how to arn a ion of cal ear els hat ves his ore ult lem .
our cal ear els are ted by a ure of tor ers , and the bal rdi - ion of ese els is ved by ing a ing erm to the ard mum ood ive ion .
the zer aks a acy in the ure els ter ace , ing els ose nal oor - ate ems are ned in a ent way .
as a ult , the nal oor - tes nge hly and sly as one ses a ted ath on the ven hen the ath ses the ins of any ent cal els .
the zer kes the orm of a ack - ler nce and tes an ted ion of nal ods : not to orm ap - ate nce in ble tic els , but to arn ore ful nal ons in ble nes .
123 old ing
der an ble of ges , ach of ich ins a ace nst a ral ack - und .
ach age can be ted by a int in the igh nal tor ace of xel ies .
his ion , ver , oes not oit the ong ons een els of the ame age , nor oes it ort any ful ons for ing out ces .
if , for ple , we ect two ges ith ces in ely ent ons and hen age eir xel ies , we do not ain an age of a ace at eir age ion .
ges of ces lie on or ear a low - nal , ved old , and we can ent hem ore lly by the tes on his old han by xel nsi - ies .
ing ese sic tes , the age of two ces is her ace ith the age of eir ons , ses and ons .
to yze and ate ces , it is ful to ine a gic ack box ith ers or als ing to the sic tes on his old .
ven a ing of the ers and als , the box tes an age of a ace .
ven an age of a ace , the box ces the ate ing of the ers and als .
in his per , we ibe a rly ral way to uct uch a box lly rom an ble of igh - nal ors .
we ume nly hat ere sts an ing old of low ity and hat the hip een the raw ata and the old tes is lly ear and hly ing .
hus our hod ies not nly to ges of ces , but lso to any her rms of hly ted ual and tic ata ( e . g . , ams of ech , tic ors , ene ion ays , ent ons ) .
123 cal ear els
the bal ure of ual lds ( uch as ges of ces ) nds to be hly ear .
ely , ite eir ted bal ure , we can lly har - ize ese lds as lly ear .
hus , to a ood ion , hey can be ted by ons of ler els , ach of ich bes a lly ear ood ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for sed ing sks , a tic del hat ely res his ion is a ure of tor ers ( mfa ) ( 123 ) .
the del is sed to ibe igh nal ata hat ies on or ear a wer nal old .
fas ize a int ion ver ved and den les :
, nts the igh nal ta; the ete
tes are lly 123 as :
lly , the del mes hat the tas igh and low nal tes are ted
the del mes hat ata is led rom ent ods on the old
ete and ous ent les .
the ult is a ure of ian ons ith zed nce ces of the orm :
, ing esh
ere the ved ble , ! den les , " $# % & ' ) ( ) ( * ( + - , , xes ent ods on the ld; and the ous den les , . / 123 ! 123 , ent low nal cal tes .
ith ior ies 123 , and hat hin ach ood , the tas cal and ise lsi by ear ses zed by rsg
the nal ata ion , o , is ned by ing / ing out the els , ons h the ing lem for fas is to ate the ers g of ese ear ses , as ell as the ior 123 of ing z , ged ver ing les .
ote hat the ter ace of his del its an nce : ing h ba ) , oes not nge the nal dis - are ) _^` ) nal ces ( \ ion , 123 .
the ons h ond to ary ons and
ons of the cal tes in ach ear del .
the ive ion for the em thm is ged by ese ons .
hus , mum ood ion in fas oes not vor any lar nt; ead , it ces els ose ter - nal ons nge bly as one ses ted ths on the old .
can we age els ose cal ate ems are ned in a ent way ?
ata rom ent rts of the old .
ter ion in fas can be led by an ion - ion ( em ) thm ( 123 ) hat pts to ize the log -
123 bal ion
ose the ata lie ear a oth old ith a lly at ( ble ) ure .
ugh in ple ach ood uld ave a ent ior on its cal tes , is the ame for all
hen ere ist a gle set of bal esc ich ize the old out oss of ity we ave ade the ard ion atd / h*j ngs ofk and bed the ape of ach cal ian del nto the 23h .
rly ble due to the nal ies of the del .
ure 123 : cal del for lly ted fas .
al - are ved , hey ect the arn - ing ugh a ion erm .
ter ing , ces out the bal les are ade by ing ior ons ,
ugh bal tes . l .
ise , ata can ily be ted by ing rom l .
all ese ons are tic - the nal ion , d / ezj
ere .
ore , to a ood ion , ese bal tes can be ted to the cal tes of ent ods ( in eir ion of ity ) by 123
of the old ? ely , if a ata int ngs to ing ods , hen the bal tes ted rom eir cal ate ems , ven by eq .
( 123 ) , uld ree .
we can ize his bal ion of ent cal els by ing the
? ide a bal ion
hat oes it ean to say hat the esc esc as ved les and ing hem nto the tic del :
( ere we sit a tic hip een cal and bal tes , ugh it is ble to add ise to his ing as ell . ) the lly ted mfa is rep - ted by the cal del in fig .
we can eal to its nal ies to ake her ful ces .
in lar :
non - ble ity , hen the ior ons for the bal tes of
ise hen ent ure nts ive ise to ent bal tes .
ile is ult , a lty ich ges con - ncy can be ily ted nto the ing thm .
we uce a ily of
< ain a ata int
to rce his ion of ent , we eed to ize els ose
' ven by eq .
( 123 ) are dal , nce ple des nly
' , to
now , if two or ore ure say , his ata int , as ced by eq .
( 123 ) , uld be rly cal : hat is ,
tly ing ity of dal ons ver thc and , and age the rue ors , be ose to ome ber ,
ing his dea her , we uce a new ive ion for sed arn - ing in fas .
the new ive ion tes a zer to age the bal ncy of cal els :
' , of his ily .
the rst erm in his ive ion tes the log - ity of the ata .
the ond erm tes a sum of ack - ler ( kl ) es; ese are ned to
by ing the lar ion and ing and ion nto the cal ate ems .
( in ice , ugh , it may be ier to ize the ive ion out ing the ces to be of his orm . ) in the nts ted low , we ave her ted hem to
out oss of ity , the esh can be ken to be ric and ive - ite , be nal .
her , hen , the ion esh and ors h unt for an xis - ned
ing and orm ion een the bal and cal ate ems .
ize fas ose ior ons ver bal tes are not dal .
the win als of ity ion and old ing in fas are ued by ing
ect ood ) are ted in der to eve del ent .
in hat ows
the ost ent way to ize the ily of dal ons is a tor - zed orm ing a ian ity and a ial :
to nce ese rms in the ive ion .
the tor ols the off een ( nly ict ces ( ich do not ity ing and bal ion : as we ave set
% ly; her ion is ble .
( 123 ) zes ver ndc ote hat the ion ing to his ily of bal tec ent ven the ata int ese are tly the nts we ish to ose on the ior ion of ing , the nsc ned ely for ach ata int , eq .
( 123 ) : his nts to ing the dal ons ,
the rue ior ons ,
at ach
, est hed to
, ing hat is ent of the ure is ian , and hus dal .
so as to ize the ive ion in
, and ure hts
, nce ces
123 ing thm
ent ble els are lly ted by mum ood or ian ods ose ive ons do not ard the ity of eir nal rep - ons .
ote how the oal of ing ore ful nal ons has ged the ing lem in a tal way .
now we ave nal ina -
ion the ets we lso ave ary ers for ach ata nsc
ine the get ons , ese ers , as ell as the mfa del 123
to tch her the cal tes ems in a oth way and to arn nal ons ily ted by the cal - to - bal ing in eq
hat ust lso be ned rom les .
all , , ust be sen
, and ure hts
, nce tri -
ion of the ive ion in eq .
( 123 ) is ent of so - led nal ods for ate ing ( 123 ) .
in ese ods , an ion to an act ( but ble ) ior ion is ted by ing a kl nce een the two ons .
the ary ers of the ing ion are own as nal ers .
our ive ion tes an ted ion of uch nal ods : not to orm ate nce in ble tic els , but to arn ore ful nal ons in ble nes .
we uce the to ize the dal ons
dal and zed ons
the els ter ace and ors cal ear els hat can be lly ned .
ing the kl nce een ese ons fts a acy in
123 ing and ing the ive ion
ing the ive ion in eq .
( 123 ) res a sum and ral ver the ent ari - les of the del .
ese ons are ied by ing the ive ion as :
the red orm of the ons
red ums and als .
the nal ult is a ple orm in rms of ies
' kes it ard to orm the
th ata int :
ted ith the
and the cal ion ces
ere we ave ced ing ion for the tor ces
ely ing the ive ion by ate ent now ads to a ing thm of the ame ral yle as em .
ing the ive ion , eq .
( 123 ) , ith ect to the ing ers
the m - tep sts of ing the ive ion , eq .
( 123 ) , ith ect to the ive del ers .
let us ote the ted ter tes by
ing the xed int ons .
the ive ion is ely ant to ion ove his acy , ter ing the ons ove we her ain the bal tes to ave ean ero and nit nce in ach ion .
ese nts are ced out ing the lue of the ive ion by ply ing the
% ) ads to the xed int ons :
, ( and ect to the int
ese ons can be ved by ion ith
ice hat
nly eed to be ted nce ore ter -
ear nly in the orm
and ing ofc and ing the nal ces
and the 123
, the m - tep tes for the rst ree
, the 123
sfy an aic ati ion ich ich may be ive for ull
at the mum , the ion hts hes lve ing the ous lue of
can be ved by ing the ate own ove .
( uch ons can lso be ved by uch ore ted ods ell own in the ing ity
ing
the ing tes , to be med in the der own , are ven in rms of ted
ces but is ast in our nal ion . )
of ese are :
ure 123 : bal ion of cal lin - ear els .
( eft ) a del ned ing axi - mum ood , ith the ows ing the ion of ase for ach tor ers cal ate tem .
( ght ) a ted el; ows ate the ion in the ata ace ing to ing the bal
ses how the one ard ion con - our of the ity of ach zer .
ate as red by the thm
we ave ted our del on ple tic lds ose ure is own as ell as on ons of ges of ten its and ces .
ure 123 tes the sic ept of ion , as ved by our ing ule .
in the ted del , the bal ate ays nts in the ame ion ong the ata old , as ned
we lso ied the thm to ons of ges of ten its and of ces .
mum ood , the ity is ell red but ach cal ent ble has a dom ion ong the old .
the fas had 123 cal els and the bal tes ere two nal .
ter ing , the ted fas had ned a oth , ous ing rom the ane to ges of its or of ces .
his ows us oth to fer a two - nal ion ven
in the del ned ith axi - by the ion of the nsh the ion of was an sed tor of raw 123 - bit ale xel ies % its and 123 for he& for ach age ( of ity 123 for he% 123 and to ate new ges rom any int in the ane any age by ing .
( ely hat we ted rom the gic box . ) in ral , oth ( i . e .
the ans of the dal ons the red bal esc rom the ive del , ted by ing the ean of ong ght ine ave red ilt / ape and ity and ted hem as the two xes of hec
ths in the bal ate ace .
in the ase of its , it ems as ugh our els the ase of the ces the xes eem to ure ose and ion .
( for the ces , the nal
of ese nal ons ave the orm of a ure of ans .
ure 123 ows
of the ing nts ter the ast ion of ing as ell as les of new ges
ace was ted by and to ign ble ons ith the ate xes . )
as ith all em hms , the ted mfa ing ure is ble to lo - cal ima .
ial to the ess of our nts is a ood ion , ich was
ded by the lly ear ing thm ( 123 ) .
we edc
ing ate ded by lle and to a all lue and ned til nce ( lly 123 - 123 ons ) .
hen we ded ith ing ing the ull em ons , ain til nce ( lly 123 - 123 ore ons ) .
ote , ver , hat lle and her ing hms uch as map ( 123 ) are ves sed , so the all ure , ing his ial ase , is ill sed .
ual to the em -
ure els ide a ple way to ate the ity of igh nal ata hat ies on or ear a low nal old .
ver , eir den ons do not ake cit the hip een lar ata ors .
in his per , we ave own how to arn bal tes hat can act as an ing ace , so hat her rts of a ing tem do not eed to act ith the ual mpo - nts of a ure .
his uld ove ion as ell as ate the ion and nge of ion hen ese els are ted nto a ger ( aps
nal bal ram - ons of lds of its and ces .
ach red by the sed hm; nts ate ach ing tem at end of ing .
the age cks on the ers are not rom the ing set but are ted rom the del elf and ent the ean of the ive
the red ans
ing pen les ( led ong the ght nes in the bal ace ) .
l at the
the els ide oth a two ree - of - dom gen - tor for lex ges as ell as a ose / ant ion sys -
for the ten its , the ing set ted of 123 les of the git 123 ( own as ses ove ) xed ith 123 ex - les of 23s ( own as les ) .
the its are rom the ist set , dig - zed at 123 els .
for the ces , we sed 123 im - ges of a gle son ith ous ses and res - ons ken rom ecu - ive mes of a deo igi - zed at 123 els .
ren - dan rey dly ded the ace ata .
cal ) ure for tic ing .
two nts of our ely sed sal are ble .
the rst is to use an em - ing thm ( uch as lle or map ) not nly as an ion tep but to ide ped ues for the bal tes .
ile his sed ach may ork in ice , sed ion kes ear the ive ion hat is ing pti -
ure 123 : a ion in ich an un - ted mix - ure ned to do ity not be ost - ted .
ise has sed one of the cal ity mod - els to ent nal to the old .
in lly rdi - ted ing , ere is an nal ure to ign ith ing els ich uld rce the cal del to lie in the ect ace .
zed , ich ies the als of old ing and ity ion .
her ant is to ain an sed ure del ( uch as a mfa ) ing a nal mum ood ive ion and hen to ost - ate its ers by ing cal ons / ons and ons to ate bal tes .
as ted in ure 123 , ver , his two - tep ure can go wry use of ise in the nal ing set .
hen oth ity ion and ion are zed sly ere is tra ure for cal rts to t the bal ure of the old .
our ork can be wed as a sis of two ong nes of rch in sed in the rst are rts at ing the bal ure of ear lds ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; in the ond are rts at ing tic cal els for rea - ing der nty ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
our ork ses to del the bal tes on lds as ent les , hus ing to ine the nal ges of oth rks .
it ers rom ing by ing a lly tic del lid way rom the ing set , and rom ork in ive hic ing ( 123 ) by not ing a orm zed ing of the ent ace .
ver , by ing the ess of ure els , it her ops an ure hat has ady ved ite ful and sly lar in ons of cal ing .
we ank ike vow for ing his hed ork ( at the ity of nto ) on nat - ing res , and bin ani , ter yan , kob eek and two ous ers for ful nts and ons .
