ab .
th su - ve ne is a ne le ma fo tw - gr cl pr .
th ma co im th fo id : in ve ar no - li ma to a ve hi - di fe sp .
in th fe sp a li de su is co .
sp pr of th de su en hi ge ab of th le ma .
th id be th su - ve ne wa pr im fo th re ca wh th tr da ca be se wi er .
we he ex th re to no - se tr da .
hi ge ab of su - ve ne ut po in tr is de - st .
we al co th pe of th su - ve ne to va cl le al th al to pa in a be st of op ch re .
ke : pa re , ef le al , ne ne , ra ba fu cl ,
mo th 12 ye ag r . a .
fi ( fi , 12 ) su th fi al fo pa re .
he co a mo of tw no di po , n ( m1 , ei ) an n ( m1 , e1 ) of n di ve x wi me ve m1 an m1 an co - va ma e1 an e1 , an sh th th op ( ba ) so is a qu de
in th ca wh e1 = e1 = e th qu de fu ( 12 ) de to a li
to es th qu de fu on ha to de " ( " +1 ) fr pa .
to es th li fu on n fr pa ha to be de .
in th ca wh th nu of ob is sm ( sa le th 12 ) es o ( n1 ) pa is no re .
fi th re , ev in th ca of ei ^ 12 , to us th li di fu ( 12 ) wi of th fo :
wh t is so co
fi al re a li de fu fo th ca wh th tw di ar no no .
al fo pa re
co an va
fi 12
a si fe - fo pe wi 12 in un , 12 la of hi un , an 12 ou un .
th gr - sh of th ve en re th nu va .
we th fr th ve be as wi th co of li de -
in 12 ro ( ro , 12 ) ex a di ki of le ma : pe or ne ne .
th pe co of co ne , wh ea ne im a se hy , so th pe as a wh im a pi li se su .
se fi
no al th mi th er on a se of ve by ad al th we of th ne wa fo in ro ' s ti , an ro su a sc wh on th we of th ou un we ad .
ac to th fi se of th ot we th in ve ar no - li tr in th fe sp , z , of th la la of un .
in th sp a li de fu is co :
by ad th we ai fr th it hi un to th ou un so as to mi so er me ov th tr da .
as a re of ro ' s ap , co of de ru wa ag as wi th co of li hy in so
an al th al fo al we of th ne ne to ad in or lo to mi th er on a se of ve be to a pa re pr wa fo in 12 ( ru , hi & wi , 12 , 12 pa , 12 le , 12 ) wh th ba - pr al wa di .
th so in a sl mo of th ma mo of ne .
th , ne ne im " pi - wi li - ty " de fu .
in th ar we co a ne ty of le ma , th so - ca su - ve ne .
th su - ve ne im th fo id : it ma th in ve in so hi di fe sp z th so no - li ma ch a pr .
in th sp a li de su is co wi sp pr th en hi ge ab of th ne .
fi 12
an ex of a se pr in a 12 di sp .
th su ve , ma wi gr sq , de th ma of la se be th tw cl .
ex .
to ob a de su co to a po of de tw , on ca cr a fe sp , z , wh ha n = 12 co of th fo :
wh x = ( x\ , . . . , xn ) .
th hy is th co in th sp .
tw pr ar in th ab ap : on co an on te .
th co - ce pr is ho to fi a se hy th wi ge we : th di - si of th fe sp wi be hu , an no al hy th se th tr da wi ne ge we
th te pr is ho co to tr su hi - di sp : to co po of de 12 or 12 in a 12 di sp it ma be ne to co hy in a bi di
th co pa of th pr wa so in 12 ( va , 12 ) fo th ca of op hy fo se cl .
an op hy is he de as th li de fu wi ma ma be th ve of th tw cl , se fi .
it wa ob th to co su op hy on on ha to ta in ac a sm am of th tr da , th so ca su ve , wh de th ma .
it wa sh th if th tr ve ar se wi er by an op hy th ex va of th pr of co an er on a te ex is bo by th ra be th ex va of th nu of su ve an th nu of tr ve :
co an va
no th th bo do no ex co th di of th sp of se .
it fo fr th bo , th if th op hy ca be co fr a sm nu of su ve re to th tr se si th ge ab wi be hi in an in di sp .
in se 12 we wi de th th ra ( 12 ) fo a re li pr ca be as lo as 12 an th op hy ge we in a bi di fe sp .
be th op hy in fe sp .
we wi sh , th th we w1 fo th op hy in th fe sp ca be wr as so li co of
th li de fu / ( z ) in th fe sp wi ac be of th fo :
wh zi - z is th do - pr be su ve zi an ve z in fe sp .
th de fu ca th be de as a tw la ne ( fi
ho , ev if th op hy ge we th te pr of ho to tr th hi di fe sp re .
in 12 it wa sh ( bo , gu , & va , 12 ) , th th or of op fo co a de fu ca be in : in of ma a no - li tr of th in ve fo - lo by do - pr wi su ve in fe sp , on ca fi co tw ve in in sp ( by e . g .
ta th do - pr or so di me ) , an th ma a no - li tr of th va of th re ( se fi .
th en - ab th co of ri cl of de su , fo ex po de su of ar de .
we wi ca th ty of le ma a su - ve
th te of su - ve ne wa fi de fo th re ca of se tr da wi er .
in th ar we ex th ap of su - ve ne to co wh se wi er on th tr ve is im .
wi th ex we co th su - ve ne as a ne cl of le ma , as po an un as ne ne .
in se 12 we wi de ho we it ge fo hi de po de su ( up to or 12 ) in a hi di sp ( di 12 ) .
th pe of th al is co to th of cl le ma e . g .
li cl , ^ - ne ne cl , an ne ne .
se 12 , 12 , an 12 ar de to th ma po of th de of th al an a di of so of it pr .
de of th de ar re to an ap .
fi 12
cl by a su - ve ne of an un pa is co do by fi tr - fo th pa in so hi - di fe sp .
an op hy co in th fe sp de th ou .
th si to a tw - la pe ca be se by co to fi
op hy
in th se we re th me of op hy ( va , 12 ) fo se of tr da wi er .
in th ne se we in a no of so ma , th wi al fo an an tr of le wi er on th tr se .
th op hy al
th se of la tr pa
is sa to be li se if th ex a ve w an a sc b su th th in
co an va
fi 12
cl of an un pa by a su - ve ne .
th pa is in in sp co to su ve .
th re va ar no - li tr .
a li fu of th tr va de th ou of th cl .
ar va fo al el of th tr se ( 12 ) .
be we wr th in ( 12 ) in th
th op hy
is th un on wh se th tr da wi a ma ma : it de th di w / |w wh th di be th pr of th tr ve of tw di cl is ma , re fi .
th di p ( w , b ) is gi by
th op hy ( w1 , b1 ) is th ar th ma th di ( 12 ) .
it fo fr ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) th
th me th th op hy is th un on th mi w w un th co ( 12 ) .
co an op hy is th a qu pr
ve xi fo wh yi ( w x , + 12 ) = 12 wi be te su ve .
in ap a .
12 we sh th th ve wq th de th op hy ca be wr as a li co of tr ve :
wh a > 12
si a > 12 on fo su ve ( se ap ) , th ex ( 12 ) re a co fo of wr w1
we al sh th to fi th ve of pa
on ha to so th fo qu pr pr :
wi re to ar = ( a 12 , . . . , at ) , su to th co :
wh 12 = ( 12 , . . . , 12 ) is an - di un ve , yr = ( yi si ve of la , an d is a sy i x ^ - ma wi el
y^ ) is th - di -
th in ( 12 ) de th no qu .
we th ha to ma th qu fo ( 12 ) in th no qu , su to th co ( 12 ) .
wh th tr da ( 12 ) ca be se wi er we al sh in ap a th fo re be th ma of th fu ( 12 ) , th pa ( ao , b1 ) , an th ma ma po fr ( 12 ) :
if fo so a* an la co w1 th in
is va , on ca ac as th al hy th se th tr da ( 12 ) ha a ma
co an va
if th tr se ( 12 ) ca be se by a hy , th ma be pa of th tw cl be ar sm , re in th va of th fu w ( a ) tu ar la .
ma th fu ( 12 ) un co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) on th ei re a ma ( in th ca on ha co th hy wi th ma ma po ) , or on fi th th ma ex so gi ( la ) co wo ( in wh ca a se of th tr da wi a ma la th v^ / wo is im ) .
th pr of ma fu ( 12 ) un co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) ca be so ve ef us th fo sc .
di th tr da in a nu of po wi a re sm nu of tr ve in ea po .
st ou by so th qu pr pr de by th fi po of tr da .
fo th pr th ar tw po ou : ei th po of th da ca be se by a hy ( in wh ca th fu se of da as we ca be se ) , or th op hy fo se th fi po of th tr da is fo .
le th ve th ma fu ( 12 ) in th ca of se of th fi po be a1
am th co of ve a1 so ar eq to ze .
th co to no - su tr ve of th po .
ma a ne se of tr da co th su ve fr th fi po of tr da an th ve of th se po th do no sa co ( 12 ) , wh w is de by a1
fo th se a ne fu w1 ( a ) is co an ma at a1
co th pr of in co a so ve a* co al th po of th tr da on ei fi th it is im to se th tr se wi er , or on co th op se hy fo th fu da se , a , = a1 - .
no , th du th pr th va of th fu w ( a ) is mo in , si mo an mo tr ve ar co in th op , le to a sm an sm se be th tw cl .
th so ma hy
co th ca wh th tr da ca be se wi er .
in th ca on ma wa to se th tr se wi a mi nu of er .
to ex th fo le us in so no - ne va , - > 12 , i = i , . . . , ( , .
we ca no mi th fu
fo sm a > 12 , su to th co
fo su sm a th fu ( 12 ) de th nu of th tr er
mi ( 12 ) on fi so mi su of tr er :
if th da ar ex fr th tr se on ca se th re pa of th tr se wi er .
to se th re pa of th tr da on ca co an op se hy .
th id ca be ex fo as : mi th fu
su to co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , wh f ( u ) is a mo co fu an c is
fo su la c an su sm a , th ve wo an co b1 , th mi th fu ( 12 ) un co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , de th hy th mi th nu of er on th tr se an se th re of th el wi ma ma .
no , ho , th th pr of co a hy wh mi th nu of er on th tr se is in ge np - co .
to av np - co of ou pr we wi co th ca of a 12 ( th sm va of a fo wh th op pr ( 12 ) ha a un so ) .
in th ca th fu ( 12 ) de ( fo su la c ) th pr of co a se hy wh mi th su of de , , of tr er an ma th ma fo th co cl ve .
if th tr da ca be se wi er th co hy co wi th op ma hy .
in co to th ca wi a < i th ex an ef me fo fi th so
of ( 12 ) in th ca of a = 12
le us ca th so th so ma hy .
in ap a we co th pr of mi th fu
su to th co ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , wh f ( u ) is a mo co fu wi f ( 12 ) = 12
to si th fo we on de th ca of f ( u ) = u1 in th se .
fo th fu th op pr re a qu pr pr .
in ap a we sh th th ve w , as fo th op hy al , ca
be wr as a li co of su ve x , :
to fi th ve at = ( i , . . . , at ) on ha to so th du qu pr pr of ma
su to co
co an va
wh 12 , a , y , an d ar th sa el as us in th op pr fo co an op hy , s is a sc , an ( 12 ) de co - wi in -
no th ( 12 ) im th th sm ad va s in fu ( 12 ) is
th to fi a so ma cl on ha to fi a ve a th ma
un th co a > 12 an ( 12 ) .
th pr di fr th pr of co an op ma cl on by th ad te wi am in th fu ( 12 ) .
du to th te th so to th pr of co th so ma cl is un an ex fo an da se .
th fu ( 12 ) is no qu be of th te wi am .
ma ( 12 ) su to th co a > 12 an ( 12 ) be to th gr of so - ca co pr - gr pr .
th , to co a so ma cl on ca ei so th co pr pr in th ^ - di sp of th pa a , or on ca so th qu pr pr in th du t + 12 sp of th pa a an s .
in ou ex we co th so ma hy by so th du qu pr pr .
th me of co of th do - pr in fe sp
th al de in th pr se co hy in th in sp .
to co a hy in a fe sp on fi ha to tr th n - di in ve x in an / / - di fe ve th a ch of an n - di ve fu 12 :
an n di li se w an a bi b is th co fo th se of
cl of an un ve x is do by fi tr th ve to th se - ra sp ( x i - - 12 ( x ) ) an th ta th si of th fu
ac to th pr of th so ma cl me th ve w ca be
wr as a li co of su ve ( in th fe sp ) .
th me
th li of th do - pr im , th th cl fu / in ( 12 ) fo an
un ve x on de on th do - pr :
th id of co su - ve ne co fr co ge fo of th do - pr in a hi sp ( an & ba , 12 ) :
ac to th hi - sc th ( co & hi , 12 ) an sy
fu k ( u , v ) , wi k ( u , v ) e li , ca be ex in th fo
wh a , e sk an fa ar ei an ei
of th in op de by th ke k ( u , v ) .
a su co to en th ( 12 ) de a do - pr in a fe sp is th al th ei in th ex ( 12 ) ar po .
to gu th th co ar po , it is ne an su ( me ' s th ) th th co
is sa fo al g su th
fu th sa me ' s th ca th be us as do - pr .
ai , br an ro ( 12 ) co a co of th do - pr in th fe sp gi by fu of th fo
wh th ca po fu .
ho , th co of th do - pr in fe sp ca be gi by an fu sa me ' s co in pa , to co a po cl of de d in n - di in sp on ca us th fo fu
co an va
us di do - pr k ( u , v ) on ca co di le ma wi ar ty of de su ( bo , gu & va , 12 ) .
th de su of th ma ha a fo
wh xi is th im of a su ve in in sp an ai is th we of a su ve in th fe sp .
to fi th ve xi an we ai on fo th sa so sc as fo th or op ma cl or so ma cl .
th on di is th in of ma d ( de by ( 12 ) ) on us th ma
ge fe of su - ve ne
co th de ru by su - ve ne is ef
to co a su - ve ne de ru on ha to so a qu op
un th si co :
is de by th el of th tr se , an k ( u , v ) is th fu de th co of th do - pr .
th so to th op pr ca be fo ef by so in op pr de by th tr da , th cu co th su ve .
th te is de in se 12
th ob op de fu
ea op pr ca be so us an st te .
th su - ve ne is a un ma
by ch th fu k ( u , v ) fo th co of th do - pr on ca im
in th ne se we wi co su - ve ne ma th us po de su .
to sp po of di or d on ca us th fo fu fo co of th do - pr
ra ba fu ma wi de fu of th fo
ca be im by us co of th ty
in th ca th su - ve ne ma wi co bo th ce xi of th ap fu an th we ai .
on ca al in a pr kn of th pr at ha by co sp co fu .
su - ve ne ar th a ra ge cl of le ma wh ch it se of de fu si by ch th fo of th do - pr .
su - ve ne an co of ge ab
to co th ge ab of a le ma on ha to co tw di fa : th er - ra on th tr da an th ca of th le ma as me by it vc - di ( va , 12 ) .
th ex a bo fo th pr of er on th te se of th fo fo : wi pr 12 r; th in
is va .
in th bo ( 12 ) th co in de on th vc - di of th le ma , th nu of el in th tr se , an th va of n .
th tw fa in ( 12 ) fo a tr - of : th sm th vc - di of th se of fu of th le ma , th sm th co in , bu th la th va of th er fr .
a ge wa fo re th tr - of wa pr as th pr of st ri mi : fo th gi da se on ha to fi a so th mi th su .
a pa ca of st ri mi pr is th oc - ra pr : ke th fi te eq to ze an mi th se on .
it is kn th th vc - di of th se of li in fu
wi fi th b is eq to th di of th in sp .
ho , th vc - di of th su
co an va
( th se of fu wi bo no of th we ) ca be le th th di of th in sp an wi de on cw .
fr th po of vi th op ma cl me ex an oc - ra pr .
it ke th fi te of ( 12 ) eq to ze ( by sa th in ( 12 ) ) an it mi th se te ( by mi th fu w w ) .
th mi pr an ov - fi pr .
ho , ev in th ca wh th tr da ar se on ma ob be ge by mi th co te in ( 12 ) ev fu at th ex of er on th tr se .
in th so ma cl me th ca be do by ch ap va of th pa c .
in th su - ve ne al on ca co th tr - of be co of de ru an fr of er by ch th pa c , ev in th mo ge ca wh th ex no so wi ze er on th tr se .
th th su - ve ne ca co bo fa fo ge ab of th le ma .
ex an
to de th su - ve ne me we co tw ty of ex .
we co ar se of pa in th pl an ex wi 12 de po - no de su , an we co ex wi th re - li pr of di
ex in th pl
us do - pr of th fo
wi d = 12 we co de ru fo di se of pa in th pl .
re of th ex ca be vi an pr ni il of th po of th al .
ex ar sh in fi .
th 12 cl ar re by bl an wh
fi 12
ex of th do - pr ( 12 ) wi d = 12
su pa ar in wi do ci , er wi a cr .
fi 12
ex of pa wi la fr th us po se di da .
bu .
in th fi we in su pa wi a do ci , an er wi a cr .
th so ar op in th se th no 12 de po ex th ma le er .
no th th nu of su pa re to th nu of tr pa ar sm .
ex wi di re
ou ex fo co su - ve ne ma us of tw di da - ba fo bi - ma di re , a sm an a la da .
th sm on is a us po se da th co 12 , 12 tr pa an 12 , 12 te pa .
th re of th da is 12 x 12 pi , an so ty ex ar sh in fi .
on th da we re ex re wi po of va de .
th la da co of 12 , 12 tr an 12 , 12 te pa , an is a 12 - 12 mi of th ni tr an te se .
th re of th pa is 12 x 12 yi an in di of 12
on th da we ha on co a 12 de po cl .
th pe of th cl is co to ot ty of le ma th to pa in a be st ( bo , 12 ) .
in al ou ex te se , on fo ea cl , ar co .
ea hy - su ma us of th sa do pr an pr - pr of th da .
cl of an un pa is do ac to th ma ou of th te cl .
ex wi us po se da .
th us po se da ha be re fr ac ma pi an re fr th da ha be re by se re .
in ta 12 we li th pe of va cl co
