ab we st th us of su ve ma ( sv ) in cl e - ma as sp or no by co it to th ot cl al : ri , ro , an bo de tr .
th fo al we te on tw di da se : on da se wh th nu of fe we co to th 12 be fe an an da se wh th di wa ov 12
sv pe be wh us bi fe .
fo bo da se , bo tr an sv ha ac te pe in te of ac an sp .
ho , sv ha si le tr ti .
in te bo al , cl , e - ma , fe -
tu re , ri , ro , su ve ma .
we de sp as an e - ma me th is un -
wa it is th el ve of ju ma th is de by th po se .
on of th re fo th pr of sp is th bu e - ma is ve ch to se an al it is po to bu lt th re e - ma if it is fr a kn sp , it is ea to ob al se ad .
go on so an in ab sp in ht : / / sp . ab . ne , ht : / / ww . ca . or , an ht : / / ww . ju - ma . or .
th ha be va at to us le ma th cl e - ma ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
so to th pr of sp ar ei te or re ( 12 ) .
te so in lt ba on se ad or he co .
th pr wi lt is th so a va me ma be bl .
th , it is no ou in to au re e - ma th is cl as sp .
ra , we en th fo sc : in th tr mo , us wi ma th e - ma as ei sp or no .
af a ni nu of ex ar co , th le ma wi be tr an th pe on ne ex pr .
th us ca th in th e - ma cl im or wa un th nu of ex is en su th pe is ac .
af th tr mo is co , ne e - ma wi be cl as sp or no .
in on pr mo , a se of ne e - ma me is pr in a ma co wi th ti of de an th sp me co - co .
it is th up to th us to ei re th e - ma or tr th e - ma .
an al pr mo is to de e - ma to th us in de or of pr th th e - ma is no .
th is , e - ma wi hi pr ( ac to
ma re ja 12 , 12 re ap 12 , 12
dr is wi at la - re , re ba , nj 12 us , an is al wi th de of el en , mo un , we lo br , nj 12 - 12 us .
wu is wi re po in , tr , ny us .
va is wi at la - re , re ba , nj , 12 us .
pu it id s 12 - 12 ( 12 ) 12 - 12
th cl ) of be no is at th to of th li .
in ei of th mo , th lt do no re an me , on in wh th me ha a hi pr of be
it is hi de th if th us de th e - ma me be ra - or by de of co th th ra or be re .
by re , we me th th us ca ei st at th to of th li of e - ma me an be fa co th th re no me or st at th bo of th li an be co th th me ar sp .
it is on ne th mi of th li ( lo co ) th it is re to th us th a fe no or sp me ma be mi .
th , it is im th ou le al no on cl th me co bu th a me of co is as wi th cl so th th me ca be
in th ne se a nu of de ch ar ou .
in se ii we de th da se an ex .
in se iv , we sh ho va of th on pa in sv ch pe .
th co ar pr in se v .
de ch
fe re
a fe is a wo .
in th de be ,
is a fe ve th is co of th to a wo , va wo fr a di fo by an th do .
th is on fe ve pe me .
to a we ve us ob fr so co s .
th ar va al an en in
ve .
we co so of th :
tf fr : th th co of th fe ap in th ve is th nu of ti th wo do .
in ou ca , a wo is a fe on if it oc in th or mo do .
( th pr mi wo an wo us ra fr ap in th di ) .
so th fe ve is no to un le .
tf - id us th ab tf mu by th id ( in do fr ) .
th do fr ( df oc in al th is th nu of ti th wo do ( ex wo th oc in le th th do ) .
th in do fr ( id ) is
dr et al . : sv fo sp ca
is th nu of do .
ty , th fe ve th co of th tf - id en is no to un le .
bi re wh in wh a pa wo oc in a pa do .
a wo is a ca on if it oc in th or mo do .
us of a st li in ad to an of th ab : wo li of , an , th , et . , ar us to fo a st li .
wo on th st li ar no us in fo a fe ve .
th ra fo th is th co wo ar no ve us in cl .
th ar ag us a st li is th it is no ob wh wo , be th tr , sh be on th st li .
it ma be ob th ar li a , an , sh be on th st li .
ho , sh a wo li no be on th st li ? th ch of wo to pu on a st li is pr a fu of th cl ta an it wo be be if le al it de wh a pa wo is im or no .
us of wo st : wo su as bu , bu , an bu ar sh to th wo st bu .
th lo th si of th fe ve bu it ma be th ca th ce fo of a wo ( su as th ac te ) ma be im in
nu of fe
th ch is be us so of th fe or al of th fe .
in te re , a fe is a wo .
on po ad of us a ni nu of fe is be ge .
by ge we me th go pe - ma on th tr se ge to go pe on a se te se .
de on th le al , it ma be th ca th th is an op se of fe , le th th to nu of av fe .
fo ex , if th di of th cl sp is gr th th nu of ex , th th ex ma al be se by a no hy wi ze tr er ( as th pa ar in ) .
si th ar , in ge , an in nu of se hy , on do no ob th op se hy ( th on th ha th be te pe ) .
a fe of th me de to nd th op nu of fe ( an th be fe ) ar ( 12 ) do fr th , in ga , mu in , .
in co tw le al , te st , an ya an pe fo th , ex fo mu in ga , al th fe se me ha si pe - ma an si ch .
th is , as th nu of fe us wa de fr al th fe to so sm nu , th te pe im .
th , on th nu of fe de be a cr va , th te er ra in .
th jo ( 12 ) di si ex an co - pa ve le al in na ba , ro , - ne ne , c1 ( 12 ) an sv .
he fo th , ex fo sv an ba , th op nu of fe wa le th th to nu of fe .
fo sv , us
al th fe ga be pe th an of th ot
th ma di of se fo th be fe is th it re ad ti in th tr al .
in th ca of in ga an mu in ga , th fe ar ra by th fe se me fr hi to lo , wh is li in th nu of ex an li in th nu of fe ( gi qu co ) .
th , to nd th op nu of fe , on mu ap th le al to di se si to nd th mi er ra .
th th co of th al to nd th op nu of fe is at le qu ti th co of th le al .
it wo be fa be if th le ma it ei ma th fe se au or us al th fe .
c1 ha th fo ch wh sv ha th la .
pe cr
re an pr : in in re ta , do - me co be as mu ca .
fo in , a st ab th hi wa of ba pl co be ca as be to bo th te na an th te sp .
wh th ar mu ca , pe me su as re an pr ( 12 )
ca fo an co
to ca co
ca fo an co
to ca fo
si ou pr is a tw - cl cl ta , re an pr ar no ne he .
er ra : er ra is th ty pe me fo tw - cl cl sc .
ho , tw le - in al ca ha th sa er ra , bu th on wh gr th er ne th de bo is th
fa al an mi ra : we de th fa al
an mi ra as
fa al ra
no sa mi
to no ex sp sa mi
to sp ex
th ad of th fa al an mi ra is th th th ar a go in of wh th er ar cl to th de bo or no .
gi tw cl wi th sa er ra , th on wi lo fa al an mi ra is th be on .
we x th mi ra an tr to nd th al th mi th fa al ra fo th xe mi ra .
th ra wi co to th er ra av us te - fo cr va .
in te - fo cr va , th en se of ex is di in te ap eq se .
ni of th te pa ar us fo tr , on of th te pa is us fo te .
th is re te ti , ea ti us an te se .
th to mi an fa al ar co an di by te ti th nu of te ex
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
is mo ac th av th te fa al an mi
re th th ev if an in me is mi mi as sp wh it is no , it is st pr to th us fo th ul de .
tr an cl sp
th e - ma se ma be a un on wh ma us ha an ac .
th , th tr ti mu be re an th cl sp mu be fa .
ge , th le ou ne ne wh ta ex ti fo tr .
we th tr th fo fo al : bo ( us de tr ) , ri , ro , an li sv .
th rs tw ar no le al bu ca be ve fa in ex an th la tw ar li .
ch of le al
12 ) bo al : th bo al ( fi .
12 ) ar te to co a nu of we le to fo an en .
th te we le ar fr th pa ( pr ap co ) ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) le co an in th th le al ca le wi er ra sl be th 12 .
c1 cl tr ar ca we le ev th th er ra ca be mu be th 12 .
th ve of bo wo as fo : tr th rs me of th en wi tr sa .
in or to tr th ne me of th en , th pr th a tr sa wi be pi to tr th se me of th en is ad up fo ha ex an do fo ea ex .
by ha ex , we me th ex th th rs we
ea me of th en is su tr on ex pi fr th or tr se wi th pr ad up or do de on wh th pr me of th en cl th tr pa in or co , re .
fo ou we le , we us cl tr bu us a ve of c1 .
be cl tr ca bu di - co de re , th ar no .
cl tr ca be ve fa in ex .
an ad of c1 is th fe ar pi as pa of th tr al an th th is no ne to ra or th fe by so ot me ( li mu in ) rs .
c1 de tr ar bu by ex a me re to in ga an th ca be ti co be it ha to be do mu ti ( eq to th nu of no in a tr ) .
bo ha be sh to dr th er ra fa be th of on we le .
bo th bo al it an th bu of de tr ma tr lo un th is a sm nu of tr in th en .
ho , th is no wa to pr in ad ho ma tr sh be in
in fi .
12 we re in ou ca to a c1 ty al .
wh th di is re , a ty me of pi a tr se fo th me of th en is as fo .
bo al .
co li se of le
wi to le nu at ra fr th to le .
if th nu is fr in us as on of th tr sa fo th ro of bo .
it ma be th ca th mu co of a pa ve ar us in tr an no sa of ea tr ex
, th ex
it is al im to no th in ca
, al th tr ex ar us in th ca ev if th we al no us in tr .
12 ) su ve ma : sv ar di ex - si in th is .
al se ( 12 ) ( 12 ) .
th ke co th ar tw cl , la tr ex : is th di -
to us ar th fo :
, an th ar
al of th ve .
if th tw cl ar li se , th on ca nd an is mi an
op we ve
dr et al . : sv fo sp ca
tr ex th sa th eq ar te su ve .
th su ve de tw hy , on th go th th su ve of on cl an on go th th su ve of th ot cl .
th di be th tw hy de a ma ( 12 ) an th ma is ma wh th no of th we is mi .
va ha sh we ma pe th mi by ma th fo fu wi re to th va
su to th co :
re th do pr
su ve .
fo an un ve co to nd
wh it is as th is on of th tr ve , an is te a
an th su is ov th
no su ve ( wh
th ad of th li re is th
be ca af tr an cl am to co th do pr of th op we ve wi th in ve .
fo th no ca , tr er ar al an
we no mu mi
su to th co
is qu in
bu th co is no
is a sl va an al tr ex to ex in th re be th tw hy th go th th su po of th tw cl .
we ca eq co an ma be so us qu pr te , so of wh ar pa to sv ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
th ad of li sv is th ex sp is ve fa an th ar no pa to tu ex th .
we wi sh th th pe of th sv is re in of th ch of is la ( ov 12 ) .
an ad of sv is th th ar re in of th re si of th nu of tr ex of th tw cl .
in mo le al , if th ar ma mo ex of on cl th an , th al wi te to co cl th
as lo as
cl wi th la nu of ex , th dr do th er ra .
si sv ar no di tr to mi th er ra , bu tr to se th pa in hi di sp , th re is th sv ar re in to th re nu of ea cl .
fo in , ne ex th ar fa be th hy do no ch th su ve .
th po di of sv ar th th tr ti ca be ve la if th ar la nu of tr ex an ex ca be sl fo no sv , ne of th ca be pr he .
12 ) ri : ri is a pr fo in cl ru fr a se of ex .
un th ot al , it do no ne a fe ve .
it fo if ru wh ar di of co , e . g . ,
is co to be sp if an on if
( wo fr ap in ) or ( wo lo ap in an wo co ap in ) ( wo ! ! ! ! ap in ) .
ri ( 12 ) wo by ad ru to co po ex - pl an th pr th ru to fo a be t to a se pr se .
th ad of ri ar as fo .
th if cl ar ea fo hu to un .
ri is ve fa in tr an te .
ri al us to su pr kn co -
ri al va to be no , co , or se -
ri is no .
12 ) ro : th ty of cl ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) us no - iz tf - id re of th tr ve .
a pr
in th nu of do th ar cl as sp or no .
el of th pr ve th ar is no to un le .
ne ar se to ze an th cl is pe by th do pr of th pr ve an th ca te ve .
th wi la po do pr ar sp an th wi la ne va ar no .
un an of th al di pr , th is no na th fo th do pr .
th is , th al do no te us fo wh va ab a cr va of th do pr sh we cl th do as sp .
th cr va mu be ob by ra or th ou of do pr of th pr ve wi al th tr ve an nd th cr va th mi th tr er .
we em th th te ve sh no be us to nd th th .
si , th op va sh no be ob fr th te se .
it sh be ob fr th tr se an it is th th tr er .
th ad of ro al is th it is fa in tr an te .
th di is th
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
fo da se i , fa al ra co to a 12 mi ra .
x in th ri wa un to
ob th 12 mi ra fo th tw da se an th no fa al or er ra ar re
on ha to se fo th op th an th op on th tr se wh ta ex tr ti an do
no ne ge we to th te se .
fu te ca me ma be fo in ( 12 )
da se
we us tw da se .
da se i wa co by an at st me an co of 12 me th he co sp an 12 me th we no .
al e - ma me co of a su an bo an th va al we tr on ei th su al , th bo al , or th su an bo to .
in ad , a st li wa ei us or no us an al wo we co to lo ca .
th 12 be fe in ea ca we us ( ra us mu in ) .
th or fe en ar tf ( te fr ) an co la be co to tf - id or bi fe .
th th we si da se co fr th or
bo fr th bo on wi us a
bo fr th bo on an th st li wa
su fr th su an bo wi
us a st li
su fr th su an bo us a
su fo th su wi us a st
su fr th su us a st li .
re ar sh in ta i .
it ca th be se th th sm er ra ar gi by us th su an bo wi us a st li ( su ) an th sv sh be us wi bi fe .
to pu th er ra in co , it sh be no th th te sa si is 12 an th a di of ap 12 ca be at to a nu di of on er pe ru of th te - fo cr va er ra es .
th th is no mu di on su be sv us bi fe an bo .
it sh be em th th sp lt wi ne ac re an me cl as sp .
th us of th fa al an mi ra is a me to
th se da se wa co fr me of th at te st wh fo th sp an no
er an fa al ra fo da se ii us a di co of up an lo wo
er an fa al ra fo da se ii us a di co of lo wo on
to th au .
si th sp ha al pa th th at re , it wo be ex th th sp wo be ha to cl .
th we 12 sp an 12 no me .
ra th li th fe ve to a ni si we us al wo in th me as lo as th oc in at le th me .
fu , st wa no us .
ri wa un to ac ei a 12 or 12 mi ra .
th da se ha tw ve .
in ve i ( ta ii ) , wo th we al ca we re bu wo th we a mi of up an lo ca we tr to lo ca .
th ra fo th is th we co co th wo li fr wo mo li to oc in sp th wo li fr .
th , th tw wo wo be tw se fe in th ve of th da .
fu th wo fr if it oc in th su at le th ti an th bo at le th ti wo be tw se fe .
th ne re is th th fe ve of ve i wa of si
on ag , us of bi fe is pr fo sv an bo gi ap eq pe if pe is ba on ra er ra .
wi ap 12 me in th te se , on er co to a nu di of 12 12
as po ou pr , th fa al ra gi a me of di of th er .
th , on th ba al bo an sv us bi fe ar co in er ra pe , sv is mu be in te of di of er .
dr et al . : sv fo sp ca
er , fa al , an mi ra fo da se ii us
a di co of lo wo on
er an fa al ra as a fu of th up bo c fo bi da us lo wo on
in ve ii of th da se , al wo we co to lo ca wh lo th di to 12
th re fo th da se ar sh in ta ii .
fi , in co ta ii an ii , we se th th is no ad in ke wo th ar al up ca .
se , it ap th on ag , it is be to us bi fe wi sv ma .
fi , al bo ha th be pe in te of ra er ra , th sp of er is be us sv wi bi fe .
op po ot th th fa al ra du to a xe mi ra ma be of in .
th , in ta iv , we pr th mi ra du a xe fa al ra an th op po wh th fa al ra an mi ra ar eq ( la co ) .
th re ar co wi th co re pr , na th bo is su in te of te er ra bu th sv is be in te of th sp of er .
th ru ti fo tr an te ha no be op fo ei bo ma or sv .
ho , si th sv on ha to ex on do pr , it wo be ex to be fa th bo c1 de tr .
bo ha ac sp , in th or of mi fo bo de tr an mi fo sv .
th do no in th ti to pa a me to bu up it fe se .
ho , th is a re di in tr ti fo tr ag th of sv .
in ou re ve of th al , bo tr ta ho to tr an sv , in th or of mi .
th av tr si fo th da is ap 12 tr wh ta in lo to bu .
th ba on a co of tr ti an pe , sv ar su .
th ar tw re we be th th tr ti fo sv wi bi fe ca be re .
th rs is th th ve ar bi an th se is th th fe ve ar sp ( ty on 12 of a ve is no ) .
th al th do pr in th sv op to be re wi fa no ro .
pe as a fu of up bo th up bo
af pe fo th ca wh th tr da is no se by a li sv .
in ge th is an op va of th co .
ho , ca be ob be ex th th be va of tr da an it is un to do so by ex th te da .
on by ha a th se of da , a va se , wo it be
er an fa al ra as a fu of th up
bo c fo tf da us lo wo on
po to op fo
in th ca , on wo ma us th tr se , an th nd th pe on th va se .
th on wo pi an un th pe on th va se is op .
on co th us th te se to nd th na pe .
ev if we ha th lu of us a va se , th it pr wo ta to lo .
ho , it is il to se wh ha if we tu us th te da ( ta v an vi ) .
we se th as
is de , th nu of su ve in an th nu of th su ve th ha ma in .
ho , fo th bi ca , th pe de wh fo th tf fe ca , th pe im an th is lo .
th re se to in th on ca ob al eq pe by us th on th tf fo da .
ho , in th ca we mu sp ti se fo th op , wh fo th bi fe , th is no th ca .
fu , th is a th gi eq pe on th wi va in
ba on ex a nu of da se , di fe re , an di le al , we co to th fo co .
12 ) fo th be ca ( al wo co to lo ca ) , sv ( us bi fe ) an bo ( us tf fe ) ar th tw be ca .
bo ha a lo er ra bu th di of er is be
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
12 ) in a ch of be us a st li an no us a
st li , it is pr th a st li no be us .
12 ) ba on a re of th li , al th fe sh be us ra th a su .
th li se to in th th is an op se of fe th de on bo th da an th al .
ho , se fo th be fe ta an un pe of ti .
bo us c1 de tr im us a ch of be fe as pa of th al an sv pe do no de if to ma fe ar us .
12 ) tr ti us bo de tr is in -
it sh be re th th pe gu ar ba on da se co fr di in .
wh an in ma hi or he ow e - ma , th th fr el of th me ca be us .
th ca im th ac in at le tw wa : th us ca ge a li of ac se th is al no as no no ma wh th su an bo co .
fu , re e - ma th is a re to a us qu wi al be ac as no .
