abs lea the was int in the lat 123 .
unt the 123 it was a pur the ana of the pro of fun est fro a giv col of dat .
in the mid of the 123 new typ of lea alg ( cal sup vec mac ) bas on the dev the wer pro .
thi mad sta lea the not onl a too for the the ana but als a too for cre pra alg for est mul fun .
thi art pre a ver gen ove of sta lea the inc bot the and alg asp of the the .
the goa of thi ove is to dem how the abs lea the est con for gen whi are mor gen tha tho dis in cla sta - tic par and how the und of the con ins new alg app to fun est pro - lem .
a mor det ove of the the ( wit pro ) can be fou in vap ( 123 ) .
in vap ( 123 ) one can nd det des of the the ( inc pro ) .
set of the lea pro
in thi sec we con a mod of the lea and sho
tha ana of thi mod can be con in the gen sta fra of min exp los usi ob - ser dat .
we sho tha pra pro suc as pat rec , reg est , and den est are par cas of thi gen mod .
fun est mod
the mod of lea fro exa can be des
usi thr com :
123 ) a gen of ran vec
, dra ind
fro a xed but unk dis
123 ) a sup tha ret an out vec
, acc to a con dis
, als xed but unk
123 ) a lea mac cap of imp a set of
the pro of lea is tha of cho fro the giv the one whi pre the set of fun sup res in the bes pos way .
the sel ran ind ide is bas on a tra set of dis ( i . i . d . ) obs dra acc to
pro of ris min
in ord to cho the bes ava app to the sup res , one mea the los or dis of the sup to pro by the a giv inp lea mac .
con the exp val of the los , giv by the ris fun
bet the res
and the res
miz the ris fun
is to nd the fun
( ove the cla of fun in the sit whe the joi pro - is unk and the onl ava
inf is con in the tra set ( 123 ) .
thr mai lea pro
thi for of the lea pro is rat gen .
it enc man spe pro .
bel we con the mai one : the pro of pat rec , reg est , and den est .
tak on onl two val
the pro of pat rec : let
be a set of ind fun ( fun whi tak on onl two val zer and one ) .
con the
for thi los fun , the fun ( 123 ) pro the pro - bil of cla err ( i . e . , whe the ans by sup and the ans giv by ind fun dif ) .
the pro , the , is to nd the fun whi min the pro of cla err whe is unk , but the dat ( 123 ) are
the pro of reg est : let
set of rea fun whi con the reg fun
be a rea val , and let
it is kno tha if the the reg fun is the one whi min the fun ( 123 ) wit the the
man rec jan 123 , 123 rev may 123 , 123
the aut is wit at& lab - res , red ban , nj 123 usa .
pub ite ide s 123 - 123 ( 123 ) 123 - 123
123 thi is the gen cas whi inc a cas whe the sup use
a fun y = f ( x ) :
thu the pro of reg est is the pro of min the ris fun ( 123 ) wit the los fun
vap : ove of sta lea the
( 123 ) in the sit whe the pro mea unk but the dat ( 123 ) are giv .
emp ris min pri and the cla met
the pro of den est : fin , con the pro of den est fro the set of den for thi pro we con the fol
it is kno tha des den min the ris fun ( 123 ) wit the los - fun ( 123 ) .
thu , aga , to est the den fro the dat one has to min the ris - fun und the con whe the cor pro mea -
is unk but i . i . d
the erm pri is qui gen .
the cla met for sol a spe lea pro , suc as the lea squ met in the pro of reg est or the max lik met in the pro of den est are rea of the erm pri for the spe los fun con abo .
in ord to spe the reg pro one
and use los fun ( 123 ) .
usi thi los
fun in the fun ( 123 ) yel the fun
whi one nee to min in ord to nd the reg est ( i . e . , the lea squ met ) .
in ord to est a den fun fro a giv set of one use the los fun ( 123 ) .
put thi los fun int ( 123 ) one obt the max lik met : the fun
whi one nee to min in ord to nd the app - tio to the den .
sin the erm pri is a gen for of the cla est pro , any the con the erm pri app to the cla met as wel .
fou par of lea the
lea the has to add the fol fou que .
123 ) wha are the con for con of the erm
to ans thi que one has to spe the nec - sar and suf con for con in pro - bil of the fol seq of the ran val .
the val of ris min pos val of the ris
con to the are the exp ris for eac min the emp
con to the
the gen set of the lea pro : the gen set of the lea pro can be des as fol .
let the pro mea con the set of fun min the ris fun
be den on the spa
the goa is : to
if pro mea
is unk but an i . i . d .
sam
the lea pro con abo are par cas of thi gen pro of min the ris fun ( 123 ) on the bas of emp dat ( 123 ) , whe is the spe los fun ( for exa , one of ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , or ( 123 ) ) .
bel we wil des res obt for the gen sta of the pro .
to app it for spe pro one has to sub the cor los - fun in the for obt .
des a pai
emp ris min ind pri
in ord to min the ris fun ( 123 ) , for an unk the fol ind pri is
the exp ris fun
is rep by the
emp ris fun
min pos val of the ris
con on the bas of the tra set ( 123 ) .
the pri is to app the fun
min ris ( 123 ) by the fun emp ris ( 123 ) .
thi pri is cal the emp ris min ind pri ( erm pri ) .
123 con in pro of val r ( ` ) mea tha for any " > 123 and for any > 123 the exi a num `12 = `12 ( " ; ) suc , tha for any ` > `12 wit pro at lea 123 the ine
r ( ` ) r ( 123 ) < "
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
equ ( 123 ) sho tha sol fou usi erm con to the bes pos one .
equ ( 123 ) sho tha val of emp ris con to the val of the sma ris .
123 ) how fas doe the seq of sma emp ris val con to the sma act ris ? in oth wor wha is the rat of gen of a lea mac tha imp the emp ris min
123 ) how can one con the rat of con ( the rat of
gen ) of the lea mac ?
123 ) how can one con alg tha can con the
thi typ of con is cal uni one - sid con -
in oth wor , acc to the key the the con for con of the erm pri are equ to the con for exi of uni one - sid con
thi the is cal the key the bec it ass tha any ana of the con pro of the erm pri mus be a wor cas ana .
the nec con - tio for con ( not onl the suf con ) dep on whe or not the dev for the wor fun ove the giv set of of fun
rat of gen ?
the ans to the que for the fou par of
123 ) the the of con of lea pro 123 ) the non the of the rat of con of
123 ) the the of con the gen of lea
123 ) the the of con lea alg .
the the of con of lea pro the the of con is an asy the .
it de - scr the nec and suf con for con of the sol obt usi the pro met to the bes pos as the num of obs is inc
why do we nee a the of con if our goa is to
con alg for a sma ( nit ) sam siz ?
the ans is : we nee a the of con bec it pro not onl suf but nec con for con of the emp ris min ind pri .
the any the of the emp ris min pri mus sat the nec and suf con .
in thi sec , we int the mai cap con ( the so - cal vap ( vc ) ent whi den the gen abi of the erm pri .
in the nex sec we sho tha the non the of lea is bas on dif typ of bou tha eva thi con for a xed amo of obs .
the key the of the lea the
the key the of the the con the erm - bas
lea pro the fol ( 123 ) .
the key the : let
be a set of fun
tha has a bou los for pro mea
con in pro to zer .
fro thi the it fol tha the ana of the erm pri req an ana of the pro of uni con of the exp to the pro ove the giv set of fun .
the nec and suf con for uni con
to des the nec and suf con for uni - for con ( 123 ) , we int a con cal the on the sam ent of the set of fun
we int thi con in two ste : rst for set of ind fun and the for set of rea - val fun .
ent of the set of ind fun : let
be a set of ind fun , tha is the fun whi tak on onl the val zer or one .
con a sam
let us cha the div of thi set of fun on the giv sam by a qua the num of dif sep of thi sam tha can be obt usi fun fro the giv set of ind fun .
let us wri thi in ano for .
con the set of
- dim bin vec
tak var val fro
tha one obt whe is the num of dif - fer ver of the - dim cub tha can be obt and the set of fun on the bas of the sam
let us cal the val
the for the erm pri to be con it is nec and suf tha the emp ris to the act ris
ove the set
the ran ent .
the ran ent des the div - sit of the set of fun on the giv dat .
is a ran var sin it was con usi ran i . i . d .
now we con the exp of the ran ent ove the joi dis fun
vap : ove of sta lea the
on sam of siz
the set of fun
thi qua the ent of the set of ind it dep on , the pro mea , and the num of obs the ent des the exp div of the giv set of ind fun on the sam of siz
the mai res of the the of con for the pat - ter rec pro ( the con for ind los fun ) is the fol the ( 123 ) .
the : for uni two - sid con of the fre -
que to the pro
it is nec and suf tha the equ
sli mod the con ( 123 ) one can obt the nec and suf con for one - sid uni con -
ent of the set of rea fun : now we gen the con of ent for set of rea - val fun .
let be a set of bou los fun .
usi thi set of fun and the tra set ( 123 ) one can con the fol set of
thi set of vec bel to the - dim cub wit be the num of ele of the
and has a nit - net in the met
- net of the set of vec
the log of the ( ran ) val
is cal the ran vc - ent of the set of fun
on the sam
of the ran vc - ent
is cal the vc - ent of the set of fun
on the sam of the siz
123 the set of ind fun r ( ) den pro and rem ( )
123 the set of vec q ( ) ; 123 has min " - net q ( 123 ) ; ; q ( n ) if : 123
the exi n = n ( " ; z12 ; z` ) vec q ( 123 ) ; ; q ( n ) ; suc tha for any vec q ( ) ; 123 one can nd amo the n vec one q ( r ) whi is " - clo to thi vec ( in a giv met ) .
for a c met tha
( q ( ) ; q ( r ) ) = max
jq ( zi ) q ( zi; r ) j " :
n is min num of vec whi pos thi pro .
123 not tha vc - ent is dif fro cla met " - ent
cl ( " ) = ln n ( " )
whe n ( " ) is car of the min " - net of the set of fun q ( z; ) ; 123 :
is tak wit res to pro - mea
the mai res of the the of uni con of the emp ris to act ris for bou los fun inc the fol the ( 123 ) .
the : for uni two - sid con of the em -
pir ris to the act ris
it is nec and suf tha the equ
sli mod the con ( 123 ) one can obt the nec and suf con for one - sid uni con -
acc to the key ass thi imp the nec and
suf con for con of the erm pri .
thr mil in lea the
in thi sec , for sim , we con a set of ind ( i . e . , we con the pro of pat rec ) .
the res obt for set of ind fun can be gen for set of rea - val fun .
in the pre sec we int the ent for set
of ind fun
now , we con two new fun tha are con the ann vc - on the bas of the val
and the gro fun
the fun are det in suc a way tha for any
are val .
on the bas of the fun , the thr mai mil in sta lea the are con .
in the pre sec , we int the equ
des the nec and suf con for con - ten of the erm pri .
thi equ is the rst mil in lea the : any mac min emp ris sho sat it .
con of obt ris
thi equ say not abo
the rat of to the min one it is pos tha the erm pri is con but
has arb slo asy rat of con .
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
the que is : und wha con is the asy rat of con
we say tha the asy rat of con is fas if for
the exp bou
the str of the gro fun
the : any gro fun eit sat the equ
or is bou by the ine
hol tru , whe
is som con .
is an int for whi
des the suf con for fas con . 123 it is the sec mil in sta lea the : it gua a fas asy rat of con .
not tha bot the equ des the nec and suf con for con and the one tha des the suf con for fas con of the erm met are val for a giv pro mea str usi thi mea ) .
how our goa is to con a lea mac for sol man dif pro ( i . e . , for man dif pro mea ) .
and vc - ann ent
the que is : und wha con is the erm pri con and rap con , ind of the pro mea ? the fol equ des the nec and suf - cie con for con of erm for any pro
thi con is als suf for fas con .
thi equ is the thi mil in sta lea the .
it des the con und whi the lea mac imp erm pri has an asy hig rat of con ind of the pro to be sol .
the mil for a fou for con bot dis ind bou and rig dis de - pen bou for the rat of con of lea ma -
bou on the rat of con
of the lea pro
in ord to est the qua of the erm met for a giv sam siz it is nec to obt non bou on the rat of uni con .
a non bou of the rat of con can be obt usi a new cap con , cal the vc dim , whi all us to obt a con bou for the gro fun .
the con of vc - dim is bas on a rem
pro of the gro - fun
123 the nec of thi con for fas con is ope que .
in oth wor the gro fun wil be eit a lin fun or wil be bou by a log fun .
( for exa , it can be of the for
we say tha
the vc dim of the set of ind is inn if the gro fun
for thi set of fun is lin .
we say tha
the vc dim of the set of ind if the gro fun is bou by a log fun wit coe
is nit and equ
the nit of the vc - dim of the set of ind fun imp by the lea mac for the nec and suf con for con of the erm met ind of pro mea .
fin of vc - dim als imp fas con .
equ den of the vc dim
in thi sec , we giv an equ den of the vc dim of set of ind fun and the we gen thi den for set of rea - val fun .
the vc dim of a set of ind fun : the
vc - dim of a set of ind fun is the max num be sep in all set ( sha by thi set of fun ) .
if for any exi a set of
pos way usi fun of thi vec whi can be sha by the set
the the vc - dim is equ to inn .
the vc dim of a set of rea - val fun : let be a set of rea - val fun
bou by con
let us con alo wit the set of rea - val fun
the set of ind fun
is som con ,
is the ste fun
the vc dim of
the set of rea val fun is den to be the vc - dim of the
set of ind fun ( 123 ) .
123 any ind fun sep a set of vec int two sub : the sub of vec for whi thi fun tak val zer and the sub of vec for whi it tak val one .
vap : ove of sta lea the
two imp exa
123 ) the vc - dim of the set of lin ind fun -
cas 123 set of tot bou fun : wit
res in gen , we ass tha
in - dim coo spa , sin usi fun of thi set one is the ste can sha at mos fun , whi tak val one , if the exp in the bra is pos and tak val zer oth .
123 ) the vc - dim of the set of lin fun
bec the vc - dim of
in - dim coo spa als equ to cor lin ind fun is equ to
doe not cha the set of
exa 123 : we cal a hyp
- mar sep hyp if it cla vec
( cla of vec
tha fal int the mar
the : let vec .
the the set of
bel to a sph of rad - mar sep hyp has the
bou by the ine
the exa sho tha in gen the vc dim of the set of hyp is equ dim of inp spa .
how , the vc dim - mar sep hyp ( wit a lar of the set of thi fac wil pla val of mar an imp rol for con new fun est
can be les tha
dis ind bou for the rat of con of lea pro
the mai res in the the of bou for set of tot
bou fun is the fol ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
the : wit pro at lea
, the ine
hol tru sim for all fun of the set ( 123 ) ,
for the set of ind fun , thi the pro bou for the ris of all fun - tio of the set ( 123 ) ( inc the fun min emp ris ( 123 ) ) .
the bou fol fro the bou on uni con ( 123 ) for set of tot bou fun tha hav nit vc dim .
cas 123 set of unb fun : con
set of ( non ) unb fun
is eas to sho ( by con an exa ) tha , wit add inf abo the set of unb fun and / or pro mea , is imp to obt an ine of typ ( 123 ) .
bel we use the fol
is som xed con . 123
the mai res for the cas of unb set of los
fun is the fol ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
the : wit pro at lea
hol tru sim for all fun of the set , whe is det by ( 123 ) ,
the the bou the ris for all fun of the set
( inc the fun
con set of fun whi pos a nit vc -
dim we dis bet two cas :
123 ) the cas whe the set of los fun
is a set of tot bou fun
123 ) the cas whe the set of los fun
is not nec a set of tot bou fun .
123 thi ine des som gen pro of dis fun of the ran var = q ( z; ) , gen by the p ( z ) : it des the tai of dis ( the pro of big val for the ran var ) : if the ine ( 123 ) wit p > 123 hol , the the dis hav so - cal lig tai ( lar val do not occ ver oft ) .
in thi cas rap con is pos .
if , how , ( 123 ) hol onl for p < 123 ( lar val of the ran var occ rat oft ) the the rat of con wil be sma ( it wil be arb sma if p is suf clo to one ) .
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
pro of con rig ( dis dep ) bou
sam siz ) . 123 the goa app for a giv sam siz .
is to spe met whi are
to con rig bou for the rat of con one has to tak int acc inf abo pro be a set of all pro mea and let we say tha one has pri
inf abo an unk pro mea one kno the set of mea
be a sub of the set
con the fol gen of the gro fun -
for ind fun
and for the ext
the gen gro fun
coi wit the gro fun gro fun coi wit the ann vc - ent .
con onl one fun
for ano ext
the fol ass is tru ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
the : sup tha a set of los - fun is bou
the for suf lar
the fol ine :
str ris min ind pri
the erm pri is int for dea wit a lar sam siz .
ind , the erm pri can be jus by is lar , the sec con the ine ( 123 ) .
whe sum on the rig han sid of ine ( 123 ) bec sma .
the act ris is the clo to the val of the emp ris .
in thi cas , a sma val of the emp ris pro a sma val of ( exp ) ris .
is sma , the eve a sma
doe not gua a sma val of ris .
in thi cas the req a new pri , bas on the sim min of two ter in ( 123 ) one of whi dep on the val of the emp ris whi the sec dep on the vc - dim of the set of fun .
to min ris in thi cas it is nec to nd a met whi , alo wit min the val of emp ris , con the vc - dim of the lea mac .
the fol pri , whi is cal the pri of str ris min ( srm ) , is int to min the ris fun wit res to bot emp ris and vc - dim of the set of fun .
the set of fun
a str : so tha
be pro wit is com of the nes sub of
fro thi bou it fol tha for suf lar wit one tha min the emp ris ) the fol ine
sim for all
an adm str is one sat the fol thr
123 ) the set 123 ) the vc - dim
is eve den in of eac set
of fun is
123 ) any ele
of the str con tot bou
the srm pri sug tha for a giv set of obs -
and cho the par fun fro
cho the ele of str
thi bou is non bec the doe not spe a met to eva the gen gro fun .
to mak thi bou con and rig one has to est the gen gro fun for a giv set of los - fun and a giv set of pro mea .
thi is one of the mai sub of the cur lea the
the for con the
gen of lea mac
the the for con the gen of a lea mac is dev to con an ind pri for min the ris fun whi tak int acc the siz of the tra set ( an ind pri for a sma
the gua ris ( 123 ) is min .
the srm pri act sug a tra bet the qua of the app and the com of the inc , the min of em - app fun .
( as pir ris are dec how , the ter res for the con int ( sum in ( 123 ) ) is inc .
the srm pri tak bot fac int acc . )
the mai res of the the of srm are the fol
the : for any dis fun the srm met pro con to the bes pos sol wit pro -
in oth wor srm met is uni str con -
123 the sam siz ` is con to be sma if `=h is sma , say `=h < 123 :
vap : ove of sta lea the
the : for adm str the met of str con to the bes
ris min pro app whi the seq of ris
wit asy rat of con
if the law
is suc tha
the rat of app
is the bou for fun fro
the of con lea alg
the srm ind pri in lea alg one has to con two fac tha exi in the bou ( 123 ) whi has to be min :
123 ) the val of emp ris 123 ) the cap fac ( to cho the ele
app val of vc dim ) .
bel we res our to the pat rec cas .
we con two typ of lea mac : 123 ) neu net ( nns ) tha wer ins by the bio -
log ana to the bra
123 ) the sup vec mac tha wer ins by sta -
tis lea the .
we wil dis how eac cor mac can
con the fac .
met of sep hyp and
con rst the pro of min emp ris on
the set of lin ind fun
can nd the exa sol whi whe the min of thi fun is non one can nd an app sol .
the by con a sep hyp one can con the val of emp ris .
unf the set of sep hyp is not ex - ibl eno to pro low emp ris for man rea - lif
two opp wer con to inc the exi
of the set of fun :
123 ) to use a ric set of ind fun whi are
sup of lin ind fun
123 ) to map the inp vec in hig dim fea
spa and con in thi spa a hyp ( see exa 123 in sec iii - c )
the rst ide cor to the neu net .
the sec
ide lea to sup vec mac .
sig app of ind fun and neu net
to des the ide beh the nn let us con the met of min the fun ( 123 ) .
it is imp to use reg gra - bas met of opt to min - imi thi fun .
( the gra of the ind fun is eit equ to zer or is und . ) the sol is to app the set of ind fun ( 123 ) by so - cal sig fun
is a smo mon fun suc tha
for exa , the fun
are sig fun .
for the set of sig fun , the emp ris fun
it has a gra gra
is smo in can be min usi gra - bas met .
for exa , the gra des met use the fol upd rul :
be a tra set , whe
is a vec ,
to min the emp ris one has to nd the pa - ( wei ) whi min the
emp ris fun
whe the dat a loc min , it is eno tha
dep on the ite for con of the gra des met to sat the con
the are sev met for min thi fun .
in the cas whe the min of the emp ris is zer one 123 we say tha the ran var `; ` = 123 123 con to the val
123 wit asy rat v ( ` ) if the exi con c suc tha
v 123 ( ` ) j` 123 ! p
thu , the ide is to use the sig app at the sta of est the coe , and use the ind fun wit the coe at the sta of rec .
the gen of thi ide lea to fee nns .
in ord to inc the exi of the set of dec rul
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
of the lea mac one con a set of fun whi are the sup of sev lin ind fun - tio ( net of neu ) ( 123 ) ins of the set of lin ind fun ( sin neu ) .
all ind fun in thi sup are rep by sig fun .
a met for cal the gra of the emp ris for the sig app of nns , cal the bac - aga met , was fou ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
usi thi gra des met , one can det the cor coe - cie val ( wei ) of all ele of the nn .
in the 123 , it was pro tha the vc dim of nns dep on the typ of sig fun and the num of wei in the nn .
und som gen con the vc dim of the nn is bou ( alt it is suf lar ) .
sup tha the vc dim doe not cha dur the nn tra pro , the the gen abi of nn dep on how wel the nn min the emp ris usi suf lar tra dat .
the thr mai pro enc whe min the emp ris usi the bac met are as
123 ) the emp ris fun has man loc min .
opt pro gua con to som loc min .
in gen the fun whi is fou usi the gra - bas pro can be far fro the bes one .
the qua of the obt app dep on man fac , in par on the ini par val of the alg .
123 ) con to a loc min can be rat slo ( due
to the hig dim of the wei - spa ) .
123 ) the sig fun has a sca fac whi aff the qua of the app .
to cho the sca fac one has to mak a tra bet qua of app and the rat of con .
the , a goo min of the emp ris de -
pen in man res on the art of the res .
the opt sep hyp
to int the met whi is an alt to the nn
let us con the opt sep hyp ( 123 ) .
sup the tra dat
can be sep by a hyp
we say tha thi set of vec is sep by the opt hy - per ( or the max mar hyp ) if it is sep wit err and the dis bet the clo vec and the hyp is max .
to des the sep hyp let us use the fol -
in the fol we use a com not for the ine -
it is eas to che tha the opt hyp is the one tha sat the con ( 123 ) and min fun
( the min is tak wit res to bot vec
the sol to thi opt pro is giv by the
sad poi of the lag fun ( lag )
be min wit res to
are lag mul .
the lag has to and max wit res
in the sad poi , the sol
sat the con
rew the equ in exp for one obt the fol pro of the opt hyp .
123 ) the coe
for the opt hyp sho
sat the con
123 ) the par of the opt hyp ( vec
are lin com of the vec of the tra set .
123 ) the sol mus sat the fol kuh
fro the con it fol tha onl som tra vec in exp ( 123 ) , the sup vec , can hav sup vec are the vec for whi , in ( 123 ) , the equ is ach .
the we obt
in the exp of
sub the exp for
bac int the lag the kuh con , one
and tak int acc obt the fun
it rem to max thi fun in the non
vap : ove of sta lea the
und the con
put the exp for as an exp on sup vec
in ( 123 ) we obt the hyp
the opt hyp in the cas whe the dat are lin non , we int non
and the fun
the pro the ari of how to com dea wit suc hig - dim spa : to con a pol of deg 123 or 123 in a 123 - dim spa it is nec to con hyp in a bil - dim fea spa .
in 123 , it was not ( 123 ) tha for bot des the opt sep hyp in the fea spa ( 123 ) and est the cor coe of exp of the sep hyp ( 123 ) one use the inn pro of two vec , whi are ima in the fea spa of the the if one can est the
inn pro of two vec in the fea spa as a fun of two var in inp spa
whi we wil min sub to con
usi the sam for wit lag mul one can sho tha the opt hyp als has an exp can be fou by ( 123 ) on sup vec .
the coe max the sam qua for as in the sep cas ( 123 ) und sli dif con
tha it wil be pos to con the sol whi are equ to the opt hyp in the fea spa .
to get thi sol one onl nee to rep the inn pro
in ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) wit the fun
in oth wor , one con non dec fun
in the inp spa
tha are equ to the lin dec fun ( 123 ) in the in ( 123 ) are den by sol fea spa .
the coe
the sup vec net
the sup - vec net imp the fol ide ( 123 ) : map the inp vec int a ver hig - dim fea - thr som non map cho a pri .
in thi spa com an opt sep hyp .
the goa is to cre the sit des in exa 123 of - mar sep hyp the sec iii - c , whe for vc dim is den by the rat wel , we con ( dec ) the vc dim by con an opt sep hyp ( tha max the mar ) .
to inc the mar we use ver hig dim spa .
exa : con a map tha all us to con dec pol in the inp spa .
to con a pol - nom of deg two , one can cre a fea spa whi
coo of the for
the sep hyp con - str in thi spa is a sep sec - deg pol in the inp spa .
to con a pol of deg
inp spa one has to con spa , whe one the con the opt hyp .
in an - dim
und con ( 123 ) .
in 123 mer pro a the whi den the gen
for of inn pro in hil spa .
the : the gen for of the inn pro in hil spa is den by the sym pos den fun
tha sat the con
for all fun
sat the ine
the any fun
sat mer con - tio can be use for con rul ( 123 ) whi is equ to con an opt sep hyp in som
the lea mac whi con dec fun of the typ ( 123 ) are cal sup vec net or sup vec mac ( svm ) . 123
usi dif exp for inn pro
can con dif lea mac wit arb typ of ( non in inp spa ) dec sur .
123 thi nam str tha for con thi typ of mac , the ide of exp the sol on sup vec is cru .
in the svm the com of con dep on the num of sup vec rat tha on the dim of the fea spa .
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
for exa to spe pol of any xed ord
one can use the fol fun for the inn pro in the cor fea spa :
rad bas fun mac wit dec fun of the
can be imp by usi a fun of the typ
in thi cas the svm mac wil nd bot the cen and the cor wei
the svm pos som use pro .
the opt pro for con an svm has
a uni sol .
tra dat ) , the con int wil be lar .
in thi cas , eve if one cou min the emp ris dow to zer , the amo of err on the tes set cou be big .
thi cas is cal ove .
to avo ove tti ( to get a sma con int ) one
has to con net wit sma vc - dim .
the to gen wel usi an nn one mus rst sug an app arc of the nn and sec nd in thi net the fun tha min the num of err on the tra dat .
for nns bot of the pro - lem are sol usi som heu ( see rem on the
in sup vec met one can con bot par : in the sep cas one obt the uni sol whi min the emp ris ( dow to zer ) usi a sep hyp wit the max mar ( i . e . , sub wit the sma vc dim ) .
in the gen cas one obt the uni sol whe
one cho the val of the tra off par
the lea pro for con an svm is rat
sim wit con the dec rul , one
obt the set of sup vec .
imp of a new set of dec fun can be
don by cha onl one fun ( ker whi den the dot pro in
why can neu net and sup vec net gen ?
the gen abi of bot the nns and sup vec net is bas on the fac des in the the for con the gen of the lea pro .
ac - cor to thi the , to gua a hig rat of gen of the lea mac one has to con a str
on the set of dec fun of the str the cho bot an app ele and a fun min bou ( 123 ) .
the bou ( 123 ) can be rew in the sim for
wit thi ele
whe the rst ter is an est of the ris and the sec is the con int for thi est .
in des an nn , one det a set of adm
fun wit som vc - dim of tra dat the val
det the con int for the net .
cho the app ele of a str is the a pro of des the net for a giv tra set .
for a giv amo
dur the lea pro thi net min the rst ter in the bou ( 123 ) ( the num of err on the tra
if it hap tha at the sta of des the net one con a net too com ( for the giv amo of
thi art pre a ver gen ove of sta lea the .
it dem how an abs ana all us to dis a gen mod of gen .
acc to thi mod , the gen abi of lea - ing mac dep on cap con whi are mor sop tha mer the dim of the spa or the num of fre par of the los fun ( the con - cep are the bas for the cla par of gen ) .
the new und of the mec beh gen - era not onl cha the the fou of gen ( for exa fro the new poi of vie the occ raz pri is not alw cor ) , but als cha the alg app to fun est pro .
the app des is rat gen .
it can be app for var fun est pro inc reg , den est , sol inv equ and so on .
sta lea the sta mor tha 123 yea ago .
the dev of thi the did not inv man re - sea .
aft the suc of the svm in sol rea - lif pro , the int in sta lea the sig inc .
for the rst tim , abs mat res in sta lea the hav a dir imp on alg too of dat ana .
in the las thr yea a lot of art hav app tha ana the the of inf and the svm met fro dif per .
the inc :
123 ) obt bet con bou tha the cla one des in thi art ( whi are clo in spi to the non bou bas on the gro fun tha on bou bas on the vc dim con ) .
suc in thi dir cou lea , in par , to cre mac tha gen bet tha the svm bas on the con of opt hyp
123 ) ext the svm ide to man dif pro
of fun and dat - ana
123 ) dev a the tha all us to cre ker tha pos des pro ( for exa tha can enf des inv ) ;
vap : ove of sta lea the
123 ) dev a new typ of ind inf tha is bas on dir gen fro the tra set to the tes set , avo the int pro of est a fun ( the tra typ inf ) .
the hop is tha thi ver fas gro are of res wil
sig boo all bra of dat ana .
the aut wis to tha f .
mul for dis and
hel to mak thi art mor cle and rea .
