ct .
he rt - or rk is a ew ng ne or wo - up on ms .
he ne ly ts he ng ea : ut rs re on - ly ed to a ry gh - on re ce .
in is re ce a ar on ce is ed .
al es of he on ce es gh on ty of he ng ne .
he ea nd he rt - or rk as ly ed or he ed se re he ng ta an be ed ut rs .
we re nd is lt to on - le ng ta .
gh on ty of rt - or ks ng al ut ns is on - ed .
we so re he ce of he rt - or rk to us al ng ms at ll ok rt in a rk dy of al er on .
ds : rn on , nt ng ms , al ks , al is on rs ,
re an 23 rs go r . a .
er ( er , 23 ) ed he st hm or rn on .
he ed a el of wo al ed ns , n ( 23 , ei ) nd n ( 23 , 23 ) of n al rs x th an rs 23 nd 23 nd co - ce es 23 nd 23 , nd ed at he al ( an ) on is a ic on
in he se re 23 = 23 = e he ic on on ( 23 ) es to a ar
to te he ic on on ne as to ne " ( " 23 ) ee rs .
to te he ar on ly n ee rs ve to be ed .
in he se re he er of ns is ll ( ay ss an 23 ) ng o ( 23 ) rs is ot le .
er re ed , en in he se of ei ^ 23 , to se he ar or on ( 23 ) th of he rm :
re t is me 23
er so ed a ar on on or he se re he wo ns re ot al .
ms or rn on
es nd ik
re 23
a le ed - rd on th 23 ut ts , 23 rs of en ts , nd 23 ut it .
he ay - ng of he or es ts ir ic ue .
re re om he ry ng ed th he on of ar ci -
in 23 tt ( tt , 23 ) ed a nt nd of ng es : ns or al ks .
he on ts of ed ns , re ch on ts a ng ne , so he on as a le ts a se ar ng ce .
ee ig
no hm at es he or on a et of rs by ng ll he ts of he rk as nd in tt ' s me , nd tt ed a me re ly he ts of he ut it re ve .
ng to he ed ng of he er ts he ut rs re on - ly ed to he re ce , z , of he st er of ts .
in is ce a ar on on is ed :
by ng he ts ai om he th en it to he ut it so as to ze me or re er he ng ta .
as a lt of tt ' s ch , on of on es as in ed th he on of ar es in me
an hm at ws or ll ts of he al rk to pt in er ly to ze he or on a et of rs ng to a rn on em as nd in 23 ( rt , on & ms , 23 , 3; er , 3; un , 23 ) en he ck - on hm as ed .
he on es a ht on of he al el of ns .
re , al ks nt " ce - se ar - pe " on ns .
in is le we ct a ew pe of ng ne , he so - ed rt - or rk .
he rt - or rk ts he ng ea : it ps he ut rs to me gh al re ce z gh me on - ar ng en a ri .
in is ce a ar on ce is ed th al es at re gh on ty of he rk .
re 23
an le of a le em in a 23 al ce .
he rt rs , ed th ey es , ne he in of st on en he wo es .
le .
to in a on ce ng to a al of ee wo , ne an te a re ce , z , ch as n = 23 es of he rm :
re x = ( x\ , . . . , xn ) .
he ne is en ed in is ce .
wo ms se in he ve ch : ne al nd ne al .
he on - al em is ow to nd a ng ne at ll ze ll : he en - ty of he re ce ll be ge , nd ot ll es at te he ng ta ll ly ze 23
he al em is ow ly to at ch gh - al es : to ct al of ee 23 or 23 in a 23 al ce it ay be ry to ct es in a on al
he al rt of is em as ed in 23 ( ik , 23 ) or he se of al es or le es .
an al ne is re ed as he ar on on th al in en he rs of he wo es , ee ig .
it as ed at to ct ch al es ne ly as to ke to nt a ll nt of he ng ta , he so ed rt rs , ch ne is in .
it as wn at if he ng rs re ed ut rs by an al ne he on ue of he ty of ng an or on a st le is ed by he io en he on ue of he er of rt rs nd he er of ng rs :
es nd ik
te at is nd es ot ly in he ty of he ce of on .
it ws om is nd , at if he al ne an be ed om a ll er of rt rs ve to he ng et ze he on ty ll be en in an te al ce .
in on 23 we ll te at he io ( 23 ) or a al fe ms an be as ow as 23 nd he al ne es ll in a on al re ce .
be he al ne in re ce .
we ll ow , at he ts 23 or he al ne in he re ce an be en as me ar on of
he ar on on / ( z ) in he re ce ll ly be of he rm :
re zi - z is he ot - ct en rt rs zi nd or z in re ce .
he on on an re be ed as a wo er rk ( ig
er , en if he al ne es ll he al em of ow to at he gh al re ce ns .
in 23 it as wn ( er , on , & ik , 23 ) , at he er of ns or ng a on on an be ed : ad of ng a on - ar on of he ut rs ol - ed by ot - ts th rt rs in re ce , ne an st re wo rs in ut ce ( by e . g .
ng ir ot - ct or me ce re ) , nd en ke a on - ar on of he ue of he lt ( ee ig .
is en - es he on of ch es of on es , or le al on es of ry ee .
we ll ll is pe of ng ne a rt - or
he ue of rt - or ks as st ed or he ed se of ng ng ta ut rs .
in is le we nd he ch of rt - or ks to er en on ut or on he ng rs is le .
th is on we er he rt - or ks as a ew ss of ng ne , as ul nd al as al ks .
in on 23 we ll te ow ll it es or gh ee al on es ( up to er 23 ) in a gh al ce ( on 23 ) .
he ce of he hm is ed to at of al ng es e . g .
ar rs , ^ - st rs rs , nd al ks .
ns 23 , 23 , nd 23 re ed to he or ts of he on of he hm nd a on of me of ts es .
ls of he on re ed to an ix .
re 23
on by a rt - or rk of an wn rn is ly ne by st ns - ng he rn to me gh - al re ce .
an al ne ed in is re ce es he ut .
he ty to a wo - er on an be en by on to ig
al es
in is on we ew he od of al es ( ik , 23 ) or on of ng ta ut rs .
in he xt on we ce a on of ft ns , at ll ow or an ic nt of ng th rs on he ng et .
he al ne hm
he et of ed ng ns
is id to be ly le if re ts a or w nd a ar b ch at he es
es nd ik
re 23
on of an wn rn by a rt - or rk .
he rn is in ut ce ed to rt rs .
he ng es re on - ly ed .
a ar on of se ed es ne he ut of he er .
re id or ll ts of he ng et ( 23 ) .
ow we te he es ( 23 ) in he
he al ne
is he ue ne ch es he ng ta th a al in : it es he on w / w| re he ce en he ns of he ng rs of wo nt es is al , ll ig .
is ce p ( w , b ) is en by
he al ne ( 23 , 23 ) is he ts at ze he ce ( 23 ) .
it ws om ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) at
is ns at he al ne is he ue ne at es w w er he ts ( 23 ) .
ng an al ne is re a ic ng
rs xi or ch yi ( w x , + 23 ) = 23 ll be ed rt rs .
in ix a .
23 we ow at he or wq at es he al ne an be en as a ar on of ng rs :
re a > 23
ce a > 23 ly or rt rs ( ee ix ) , he on ( 23 ) ts a ct rm of ng 23
we so ow at to nd he or of rs
ne as to ve he ng ic ng em :
th ct to ar = ( a 23 , . . . , at ) , ct to he ts :
re 3t = ( 23 , . . . , 23 ) is an - al it or , yr = ( yi al or of ls , nd d is a ic i x ^ - ix th ts
y^ ) is he - en -
he ty ( 23 ) es he ve nt .
we re ve to ze he ic rm ( 23 ) in he ve nt , ct to he ts ( 23 ) .
en he ng ta ( 23 ) an be ed ut rs we so ow in ix a he ng ip en he um of he al ( 23 ) , he ir ( ao , 23 ) , nd he al in po om ( 23 ) :
if or me a* nd ge nt 23 he ty
is id , ne an ly rt at ll es at te he ng ta ( 23 ) ve a in
es nd ik
if he ng et ( 23 ) ot be ed by a ne , he in en ns of he wo es es ry ll , ng in he ue of he al w ( a ) ng ry ge .
ng he al ( 23 ) er ts ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) ne re er es a um ( in is se ne as ed he ne th he al in po ) , or ne ds at he um ds me en ( ge ) nt wo ( in ch se a on of he ng ta th a in er en v^ / wo is le ) .
he em of ng al ( 23 ) er ts ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) an be ed ry ly ng he ng me .
de he ng ta to a er of ns th a le ll er of ng rs in ch on .
rt ut by ng he ic ng em ed by he st on of ng ta .
or is em re re wo le es : er is on of he ta ot be ed by a ne ( in ch se he ll et of ta as ll ot be ed ) , or he al ne or ng he st on of he ng ta is nd .
et he or at es al ( 23 ) in he se of on of he st on be 23
ng he es of or 23 me re al to ro .
ey nd to on - rt ng rs of is on .
ke a ew et of ng ta ng he rt rs om he st on of ng ta nd he rs of he nd on at do ot fy nt ( 23 ) , re w is ed by 23
or is et a ew al 23 ( a ) is ed nd ed at 23
ng is ss of ly ng a on or a* ng ll he ns of he ng ta ne er ds at it is le to te he ng et ut or , or ne ts he al ng ne or he ll ta et , a , = 23 - .
te , at ng is ss he ue of he al w ( a ) is ly ng , ce re nd re ng rs re ed in he on , ng to a er nd er on en he wo es .
he ft in ne
er he se re he ng ta ot be ed ut or .
in is se ne ay nt to te he ng et th a al er of rs .
to ss is ly et us ce me on - ve es , - > 23 , i = i , . . . , ( , .
we an ow ze he al
or ll a > 23 , ct to he ts
or ly ll a he al ( 23 ) es he er of he ng 23
ng ( 23 ) ne ds me al et of ng rs :
if se ta re ed om he ng et ne an te he ng rt of he ng et ut rs .
to te he ng rt of he ng ta ne an ct an al ng ne .
is ea an be ed ly as : ze he al
ct to ts ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , re f ( u ) is a ic ex on nd c is
or ly ge c nd ly ll a , he or wo nd nt 23 , at ze he al ( 23 ) er ts ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , ne he ne at es he er of rs on he ng et nd te he st of he ts th al in .
te , er , at he em of ng a ne ch es he er of rs on he ng et is in al np - te .
to id np - ss of ur em we ll er he se of a 23 ( he st ue of a or ch he on em ( 23 ) as a ue on ) .
in is se he al ( 23 ) es ( or ly ge c ) he em of ng a ng ne ch es he um of ns , , of ng rs nd es he in or he ly ed rs .
if he ng ta an be ed ut rs he ed ne es th he al in ne .
in st to he se th a < i re ts an nt od or ng he on
of ( 23 ) in he se of a = 23
et us ll is on he ft in ne .
in ix a we er he em of ng he al
ct to he ts ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , re f ( u ) is a ic ex on th f ( 23 ) = 23
to fy he as we ly be he se of f ( u ) = 23 in is on .
or is on he on em ns a ic ng em .
in ix a we ow at he or w , as or he al ne hm , an
be en as a ar on of rt rs x , :
to nd he or at = ( i , . . . , at ) ne as to ve he al ic ng em of ng
ct to ts
es nd ik
re 23 , a , y , nd d re he me ts as ed in he on em or ng an al ne , s is a ar , nd ( 23 ) es te - se in -
te at ( 23 ) es at he st le ue s in al ( 23 ) is
re to nd a ft in er ne as to nd a or a at es
er he ts a > 23 nd ( 23 ) .
is em rs om he em of ng an al in er ly by he al rm th ax in he al ( 23 ) .
ue to is rm he on to he em of ng he ft in er is ue nd ts or ny ta et .
he al ( 23 ) is ot ic se of he rm th ax .
ng ( 23 ) ct to he ts a > 23 nd ( 23 ) gs to he up of so - ed ex ro - ng ms .
re , to ct a ft in er ne an er ve he ex ng em in he ^ - al ce of he rs a , or ne an ve he ic ng em in he al t + 23 ce of he rs a nd s .
in ur ts we ct he ft in es by ng he al ic ng em .
he od of on of he ot - ct in re ce
he ms ed in he us ns ct es in he ut ce .
to ct a ne in a re ce ne st as to rm he n - al ut or x to an / / - al re or gh a ce of an n - al or on 23 :
an n al ar or w nd a as b is en ed or he et of
on of an wn or x is ne by st ng he or to he pa - ng ce ( x i - - 23 ( x ) ) nd en ng he gn of he on
ng to he es of he ft in er od he or w an be
en as a ar on of rt rs ( in he re ce ) .
at ns
he ty of he ot - ct es , at he on on / in ( 23 ) or an
wn or x ly ds on he ot - ts :
he ea of ng rt - or ks es om ng al ms of he ot - ct in a rt ce ( on & ur , 23 ) :
ng to he rt - dt ry ( nt & rt , 23 ) ny ic
on k ( u , v ) , th k ( u , v ) e li , an be ed in he rm
re a , e sk nd fa re es nd ns
of he al or ed by he el k ( u , v ) .
a nt on to re at ( 23 ) es a ot - ct in a re ce is at ll he es in he on ( 23 ) re ve .
to ee at se ts re ve , it is ry nd nt ( er ' s em ) at he on
is ed or ll g ch at
ns at fy er ' s em an re be ed as ot - ts .
an , an nd er ( 23 ) er a on of he ot - ct in he re ce en by on of he rm
ch ey ll al ns .
er , he on of he ot - ct in re ce an be en by ny on ng er ' s n; in ar , to ct a al er of ee d in n - al ut ce ne an se he ng on
es nd ik
ng nt ot - ts k ( u , v ) ne an ct nt ng es th ry es of on es ( er , on & ik , 23 ) .
he on ce of se es as a rm
re xi is he ge of a rt or in ut ce nd ai is he ht of a rt or in he re ce .
to nd he rs xi nd ts ai ne ws he me on me as or he al al in er or ft in er .
he ly ce is at ad of ix d ( ed by ( 23 ) ) ne es he ix
al es of rt - or ks
ng he on es by rt - or ks is nt
to ct a rt - or rk on le ne as to ve a ic on
er he le ts :
is ed by he ts of he ng et , nd k ( u , v ) is he on ng he on of he ot - ts .
he on to he on em an be nd ly by ng te on ms ed by he ng ta , at ly te he rt rs .
is ue is ed in on 23
he ed al on on
ch on em an be ed ng ny rd es .
he rt - or rk is a al ne
by ng he on k ( u , v ) or he on of he ot - ct ne an nt
in he xt on we ll er rt - or rk es at se al on es .
to fy ls of nt er d ne an se he ng ns or on of he ot - ct
al is on es th on ns of he rm
an be ed by ng ns of he pe
in is se he rt - or rk ne ll ct th he rs xi of he ng on nd he ts ai .
ne an so te a ri ge of he em at nd by ng al on ns .
rt - or ks re re a er al ss of ng es ch es ts et of on ns ly by ng he rm of he ot - ct .
rt - or ks nd ol of on ty
to ol he on ty of a ng ne ne as to ol wo nt rs : he or - te on he ng ta nd he ty of he ng ne as ed by ts vc - on ( ik , 23 ) .
re ts a nd or he ty of rs on he st et of he ng rm : th ty 23 r; he ty
is id .
in he nd ( 23 ) he ce al ds on he vc - on of he ng ne , he er of ts in he ng et , nd he ue of n .
he wo rs in ( 23 ) rm a de - ff : he er he vc - on of he et of ns of he ng ne , he er he ce al , ut he er he ue of he or cy .
a al ay or ng is de - ff as ed as he le of al sk on : or he en ta et ne as to nd a on at es ir um .
a ar se of al sk on le is he am - or le : ep he st rm al to ro nd ze he nd ne .
it is wn at he vc - on of he et of ar or ns
th ed ld b is al to he ty of he ut ce .
er , he vc - on of he et
es nd ik
( he et of ns th ed rm of he ts ) an be ss an he ty of he ut ce nd ll nd on cw .
om is nt of ew he al in er od es an am - or le .
it ps he st rm of ( 23 ) al to ro ( by ng he ty ( 23 ) ) nd it es he nd rm ( by ng he al w w ) .
is on ts an er - ng em .
er , en in he se re he ng ta re le ne ay in er on by ng he ce rm in ( 23 ) en er at he se of rs on he ng et .
in he ft in er od is an be ne by ng te es of he er c .
in he rt - or rk hm ne an ol he de - ff en ty of on le nd cy of or by ng he er c , en in he re al se re re ts no on th ro or on he ng et .
re he rt - or rk an ol th rs or on ty of he ng ne .
al is
to te he rt - or rk od we ct wo es of ts .
we ct al ts of ns in he ne nd nt th nd ee ly - al on es , nd we ct ts th he al - fe em of it
ts in he ne
ng ot - ts of he rm
th d = 23 we ct on es or nt ts of ns in he ne .
ts of se ts an be ed nd de ce ns of he er of he hm .
es re wn in ig .
he 23 es re ed by ck nd te
re 23
es of he ot - ct ( 23 ) th d = 23
rt ns re ed th le es , rs th a ss .
re 23
es of ns th ls om he us al ce it se .
ts .
in he re we te rt ns th a le le , nd rs th a ss .
he ns re al in he se at no nd ee ls st at ke ss rs .
ce at he rs of rt ns ve to he er of ng ns re ll .
ts th it on
ur ts or ng rt - or ks ke se of wo nt ta - es or it - ed it on , a ll nd a ge se .
he ll ne is a us al ce se at ns 23 , 23 ng ns nd 23 , 23 st ns .
he on of he se is 23 x 23 ls , nd me al es re wn in ig .
on is se we rt al ch th ls of us ee .
he ge se ts of 23 , 23 ng nd 23 , 23 st ns , nd is a 23 - 23 re of he 23 ng nd st ts .
he on of se ns is 23 x 23 ng an ut ty of 23
on is se we ve ly ed a th ee al er .
he ce of is er is ed to er es of ng es at ok rt in a rk dy ( ou , 23 ) .
in ll ur ts en rs , ne or ch ss , re ed .
ch er - ce es se of he me ot ct nd re - ng of he ta .
on of an wn ns is ne ng to he um ut of se en rs .
ts th us al ce se .
he us al ce se as en ed om al il es nd ts om is se ve en ed by al rs .
in le 23 we st he ce of us rs ed
