ct we dy he se of rt or es ( ms ) in ng e - il as am or am by ng it to ee er on ms : er , io , nd ng on es .
se ur ms re ed on wo nt ta ts : ne ta et re he er of es re ed to he 23 st es nd er ta et re he ty as er 23
ms ed st en ng ry es .
or th ta ts , ng es nd ms ad le st ce in ms of cy nd ed .
er , ms ad ly ss ng me .
ex ms ng ms , on , e - il , ea -
re on , er , io , rt or es .
we ne am as an e - il ge at is un -
ly it is he ic on of nk il at is ed by he al ce .
ne of he ns or he on of am is at lk e - il is ry ap to nd nd gh it is le to ld rs at ct e - il if it is om a wn er , it is sy to in ve ng es .
od ne es nd on ut am de tp : / / am . se . et , tp : / / ww . ce . rg , nd tp : / / ww . ke - il . rg .
re ve en us ts to se ng es at fy e - il ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
ns to he on of am re er al or ry ( 23 ) .
al ns de ng ed on er ss or er nt .
he em th ng is at es a id ge ay be ed .
us , it is ot ur nt to ly ct e - il at is ed as am .
er , we on he ng io : in he ng de , rs ll rk ir e - il as er am or am .
er a te er of es re ed , he ng ne ll be ed nd he ce on ew es ed .
he er an en ke he e - il er ly or it il he er of es is gh ch at ce is le .
er he ng de is te , ew e - il ll be ed as am or am .
in ne on de , a et of ew e - il es is ed in a er nt th he me of ry nd he am es or - ed .
it is en up to he er to er ad he e - il or sh he e - il .
an ve on de is to er e - il to he er in ng er of ty at he e - il is am .
at is , e - il th gh ty ( ng to
pt ed ry 23 , 3; ed il 23 , 23
er is th &t bs - ch , ed nk , nj 23 sa , nd is so th he nt of ic ng , th ty , st ng ch , nj 23 - 23 sa .
wu is th er ic te , oy , 23 sa .
ik is th &t bs - ch , ed nk , nj , 23 sa .
er em er s 23 - 23 ( 23 ) 23 - 23
he er ) of ng am is at he op of he st .
in er of se es , he er es ot ct ny es , ly es er he ge as a gh ty of ng
it is ly le at if he er es at e - il es be nk - ed by ee of ce at he nk ng be le .
by le , we an at he er an er rt at he op of he st of e - il es nd be ly nt at ey nt am es or rt at he om of he st nd be nt at he es re am .
it is ly ar he le of he st ( ow ce ) at it is le to he er at a ew am or am es ay be ed .
re , it is nt at ur ng hm ot ly fy he es ly ut at a re of ce is ed th at on so at he ge an be
in he xt on a er of gn es re ed .
in on ii we be he ta ts nd ts .
in on iv , we ow ow on of he ne er in ms es ce .
he ns re ed in on v .
gn es
re on
a re is a rd .
in he nt ow ,
is a re or at is ed of he to a rd , us ds om a ry ed by ng he ts .
re is ne re or er ge .
to a ht or ly ed om me on s .
re re us es nd ts in
rs .
we er me of em :
rm cy : he th nt of he re rs in at or is he er of es at rd nt .
in ur se , a rd is a re ly if it rs in ee or re ts .
( is ts ed ds nd ds ed ly om ng in he ry ) .
es he re or is ed to it th .
tf - df es he ve tf ed by he df ( se nt cy ) .
he nt cy ( df rs in ll he is he er of es at rd ts ( ng ds at ur in ss an ee ts ) .
he se nt cy ( df ) is
er et al . : ms or am on
is he er of ts .
ly , he re or at ts of he tf - df es is ed to it th .
ry on ch es er a ar rd rs in a ar nt .
a rd is a te ly if it rs in ee or re ts .
se of a op st in on to ny of he ve : ds ke of , nd , he , tc . , re ed to rm a op st .
ds on he op st re ot ed in ng a re or .
he le or is is at on ds re ot ry ul in on .
he nt st ng a op st is at it is ot us ch ds , nd he al , ld be on he op st .
it ay be us at es ke a , an , ld be on he op st .
er , ld a rd ke ow be on he op st ? he ce of ds to ut on a op st is ly a on of he on sk nd it ld be er if ng hm lf ed er a ar rd is nt or ot .
se of rd ng : ds ch as ld , er , nd ng re ed to he rd em ld .
is rs he ze of he re or ut it ay be he se at in ms of a rd ( ch as he ve se ) ay be nt in
er of es
he ce is en ng me of he es or ll of he es .
in xt on , a re is a rd .
ne le ge of ng a te er of es is er on .
by on we an at od or - ce on he ng et es to od ce on a te st et .
ng on he ng hm , it ay be he se at re is an um et of es , ss an he al er of le es .
or le , if he ty of he on ce is er an he er of es , en he es ay ys be le by a ue ne th ro ng or ( ng he ns re nt ) .
ce re re , in al , an te er of ng es , ne es ot in he al ng ne ( he ne at as he st st ce ) .
a ew of he ms ed to nd he um er of es ( nd he st es ) re ( 23 ) nt cy ng , on in , al on , .
in ng wo ng ms , rm th , nd ng nd en nd at , pt or al on in , ll se re on ds ad ar or - ce nd ar cs .
at is , as he er of es ed as ed om ll he es to me er er , he st ce ed .
en , ce he er of es ed ow a al ue , he st or te ed .
en ms ( 23 ) id ar ts nd om - ed ve ng ms ng ve es , io , - st rs , 23 ( 23 ) nd ms .
he nd at , pt or vm nd es , he um er of es as ss an he al er of es .
or vm , ng
ll he es ve er ce an ny of he er
he in ge of ng or he st es is at it es al me in he ng hm .
in he se of on in nd al on in , he es re ed by he re on od om gh to ow , ch is ar in he er of es nd ar in he er of es ( ng ic ty ) .
en , to nd he um er of es , ne st ly he ng ms to nt et es to nd he um or te .
us he ty of he hm to nd he um er of es is at st ic es he ty of he ng hm .
it ld be ar er if he ng ne lf er de he re on ly or ed ll he es .
23 as he er ic le ms ve he er .
ce ia
ll nd on : in on al ks , cu - ts ld be ed le es .
or ce , a ry ut he gh es of ll rs ld be ed as ng to th he rm al nd he rm ts .
en re re le es , ce es ch as ll nd on ( 23 )
es nd nd ct
al es ct
es nd nd ct
al es nd
ce ur em is a wo - ss on sk , ll nd on re ot ed re .
or te : or te is he al ce re or wo - ss on es .
er , wo rn - ng ms an ve he me or te , ut he ne ch ps he rs ar he on er is he
se rm nd ss te : we ne he se rm
nd ss es as
se rm te
am es ed
al am es am es ed
al am es
he ge of he se rm nd ss es is at at ey re a od or of er he rs re se to he on er or ot .
en wo rs th he me or te , he ne th er se rm nd ss es is he er ne .
we x he ss te nd ry to nd he hm at es he se rm te or at ed ss te .
se es ll nd to he or es ed ng en - ld ss on .
in en - ld ss on , he re et of es is ed to en ly al ts .
ne of he en ts re ng or ng , ne of he en ts is ed or ng .
is is ed en es , ch me ng er st et .
he al es nd se ms re ed nd ed by en es he er of st es
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
is re te an ng he en se ms nd ss
ll at at en if an ut ge is ly ed as am en it is ot , it is ll ed to he er or he te on .
ng nd on ed
he e - il er ay be a it on ch ny rs ve an nt .
re , he ng me st be le nd he on ed st be st .
ly , is es ut al ks ch ke ve me or ng .
we re ed he ng ur ms : ng ( ng on es ) , er , io , nd ar ms .
he st wo re ar ng ms ut an be ry st in on nd he st wo re ar .
ce of ng ms
23 ) ng ms : he ng ms ( ig .
23 ) re es to ne a er of ak rs to rm an le .
he rm ak er es om he ac ( ly ly ct ) ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ng ty nd es at he ng hm an rn th or te ly er an 3% .
23 on es re te ak rs en gh ir or es an be ch er an 3% .
is on of ng ks as ng : in he st er of he le th ng es .
in er to in he xt er of he le , he ty at a ng le ll be ed to in he nd er of he le is ed ds or rd es nd wn or sy es .
by rd es , we an se es at he st ak
ch er of he le is ly ed on es ed om he al ng et th ir es ed ds or ds ng on er he us rs of he le ed he ng rn ly or ly , ly .
or ur ak er , we se on es lt ng a on of 23 .
se on es an ld is - ed on ns , ey re ar .
on es an be ry st in on .
an ge of 23 is at es re ed as rt of he ng hm nd re re is no ed to nk er he es by me er sm ( ke al on ) st .
23 on es re lt by ng a re ed to on in nd is an be me ng se it as to be ne le es ( al to he er of es in a ee ) .
ng as en wn to ve he or te ar ow at of ne ak er .
th he ng ms lf nd he ng of on es ke ng ng ss re is a ll er of es in he le .
er , re is no ay to ct in ce ow ny es ld be in
in ig .
23 rn rs in ur se to a 23 pe hm .
en he on is ed , a al od of ng a ng et or is er of he le is as ws .
ng hm .
ct ne ts of th
th al th rs at om om at al th .
if he er is om al ed as ne of he ng es or at nd of ng .
it ay be he se at le es of a ar or re ed in ng nd no es of sy ng es
, en le
it is so nt to te at in ng
, ll he ng es re ed in at on en if ey re ll ot ed in ng .
23 ) rt or es : ms re ed en - ly in is ue .
so ee ( 23 ) ( 23 ) .
he ey ts re re wo es , ed ng es : is he on -
to se re he ng :
, nd re re
ty of he or .
if he wo es re ly le , en ne an nd an is m; nd
al ht or
er et al . : ms or am on
ng es at fy he ty re ed rt rs .
he rt rs ne wo es , ne at es gh he rt rs of ne ss nd ne es gh he rt rs of he er ss .
he ce en he wo es es a in ( 23 ) nd is in is ed en he rm of he ht is um .
ik as wn we ay rm is on by ng he ng on th ct to he es
ct to he nt :
ts he ot ct
rt or .
or an wn or ds to ng
re it is ed re is ne of he ng rs , nd is ed a
nd he um is er he
ro rt rs ( se
he ge of he ar on is at
be ed er ng nd on ts to ng he ot ct of is um ht or th he ut or .
or he le se , ng rs re ed nd
we ow st ze
ct to he nt
is ic in
ut he nt is ow
is a ck le nd ws ng es to st in he on en he wo es at go gh he rt ts of he wo es .
we an ly ts nd ay be ed ng ic ng es , me of ch re ar to ms ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
he ge of ar ms is at on ed is ry st nd re re no rs to ne pt he .
we ll ow at he ce of he vm is ly nt of he ce of is ge ( er 23 ) .
er ge of ms is at ey re ly nt of he ve es of he er of ng es of he wo es .
in st ng ms , if re re ny re es of ne ss an er , he hm ll nd to ly fy he
as ng as
ss th he er er of es , by ng wn he or te .
ce ms re ot ly ng to ze he or te , ut ng to te he ns in gh al ce , he lt is at ms re ly ve to he ve rs of ch ss .
or ce , ew es at re ar nd he es do ot ge he rt rs .
he le es of ms re at he ng me an be ry ge if re re ge rs of ng es nd on an be ow or ar ms , er of se es ng nt re .
23 ) er : er is a am or ng on es om a et of es .
ke he er ms , it es ot ed a re or .
it ms en es ch re ns of ns , e . g . ,
is ed to be am if nd ly if
( rd ee rs in ) or ( rd ow rs in nd rd st rs in ) ( rd ! ! ! ! rs in ) .
er ( 23 ) ks by ng es to er ve am - es nd en es se es to rm a st t to a te ng et .
he es of er re as ws .
he en es re sy or ns to nd .
er is ry st in ng nd ng .
er ws rs to ly or ge on -
er ws es to be al , us , or et -
er is ar .
23 ) io : is pe of er ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) es al - ed tf - df on of he ng rs .
a pe
es he er of ts at re ed as am or am .
ts of he pe or at re is ed to it th .
ve re et to ro nd en on is ed by he ot ct of he pe or nd he te st or .
se th ge ve ot ts re am nd se th ge ve es re am .
ke ny of he ms ed ly , re is no al ld or he ot ct .
at is , he hm es ot ll us or at es ve a al ue of he ot ct ld we fy he nt as am .
is al ue st be ed by nk ng he ts of ot ts of he pe or th ll he ng rs nd ng at al ue at es he ng or .
we ze at he st rs ld ot be ed to nd at ld .
ly , he um ue ld ot be ed om he st et .
it ld be ed om he ng et nd it is at he ng or .
he ge of os hm is at it is st in ng nd ng .
he ge is at
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
or ta et i , se rm es ng to a 3% ss te .
x es at er as le to
in he 3% ss te or se wo ta ts nd us no se rm or or es re ed
ne as to ch or he um ld nd he um on he ng et ch es ra ng me nd es
ot ly ze ll to he st et .
er xt on ds ay be nd in ( 23 )
ta ts
we ed wo ta ts .
ta et i as ed by an &t ff er nd ts of 23 es at he ed am nd 23 es at re am .
ll e - il es st of a ct nd dy nd he us ms re ed on er he ct ne , he dy ne , or he ct nd dy er .
in on , a op st as er ed or ot ed nd ll ds re ed to er se .
he 23 st es in ch se re ed ( ed ng al on ) .
he al re es re tf ( rm cy ) nd ld er be ed to tf - df or ry es .
us re re ix ta ts ed om he al
ds om he dy ly ut ng a
ds om he dy ly nd he op st as
ds om he ct nd dy ut
ng a op st
ds om he ct nd dy ng a
ds rm he ct ut ng a op
ds om he ct ng a op st .
ts re wn in le i .
it an re be en at he st or es re en by ng he ct nd dy ut ng a op st ( op ) nd at vm ld be ed th ry es .
to ut he or es in xt , it ld be ed at he st le ze is 23 nd us a ce of ly 23 an be ed to a al ce of ne or er un of he en - ld ss on or te te .
us re is ot ch ce on op en vm ng ry es nd ng .
it ld be ed at he am er ll er ly ct ny es ed as am .
he se of he se rm nd ss es is a sm to
he nd ta et as ed om rs of he &t al ff ho ed ir am nd am
or nd se rm es or ta et ii ng a ry ng of er nd se ds
or nd se rm es or ta et ii ng a ry ng of se ds ly
to he rs .
ce he am ad dy ed gh he &t ll , it ld be ed at he am ld be er to fy .
re re 23 am nd 23 am es .
er an ng he re or to a te ze we ed ll ds in he es as ng as ey ed in at st ee es .
re , ng as ot ed .
er as le to ve er a 3% or 3% ss te .
is ta et ad wo ns .
in on i ( le ii ) , ds at re ll ls re ed ut ds at re a re of er nd er se re ed to er se .
he le or is is at we ld re at ds ke ee ld re ly to ur in am an ds ke ee .
us , se wo ds ld be wo te es in is on of he se .
re he rd ee if it ed in he ct at st ee es nd he dy at st ee es ld be wo te es .
he et lt is at he re or of on i as of ze
ce in , se of ry es is ed or vm nd ng ve ly al ce if ce is ed on aw or te .
th ly 23 es in he st et , ne or ds to a al ce of 23 23
as ed ut ly , he se rm es ve a re of on of he rs .
re , on is is gh ng nd vm ng ry es re le in or te ce , vm is ch er in ms of on of rs .
er et al . : ms or am on
or , se rm , nd ss es or ta et ii ng
a ry ng of se ds ly
or nd se rm es as a on of he er nd c or ry ta ng se ds ly
in on ii of is ta et , ll ds re ed to er se ch ed he ty to 23
he ts or is ta et re wn in le ii .
st , in ng es ii nd ii , we ee at re is no ge in ng ds at re ll er se .
nd , it rs at ce in , it is er to se ry es th vm es .
ly , gh ng as he er ce in ms of aw or te , he ad of rs is er ng vm th ry es .
ng ts er an he se rm te ue to a ed ss te ay be of st .
re , in le iv , we nt he ss te ue a ed se rm te nd he ng nt re he se rm es nd ss te re al ( st mn ) .
se ts re nt th he ns ch ly , ly at ng is or in ms of st or te ut at vm is er in ms of he ad of rs .
he ng es or ng nd ng ve ot en ed or er ng es or ms .
er , ce he vm ly as to te ne ot ct , it ld be ed to be er an ng 23 on es .
th ve le ds , in he er of ds or ng on es nd ds or vm .
is es ot de he me to se a ge to ld up ts re et .
er , re is a le ce in ng me or es st at of ms .
in ur ch on of se ms , ng es ke rs to in nd ms , in he er of es .
he ge ee ze or is se is ly 23 es ch ke ly ng to ld .
us ed on a on of ng me nd ce , ms re or .
re re wo ns we ve at he ng me or ms th ry es an be ed .
he st is at he rs re ry nd he nd is at he re rs re se ( ly ly 3% of a or is ro ) .
is ws he ot ct in he vm on to be ed th er ve es .
ce as a on of er nd he er nd
ts ce or he es re he ng ta is ot le by a ar vm .
in al re is an um ue of is nt .
er , ot be ed be ng he is st ue of ng ta nd it is ir to do so by ng he st ta .
ly by ng a rd et of ta , a on et , ld it be
or nd se rm es as a on of he er
nd c or tf ta ng se ds ly
le to ze or
in at se , ne ld ze ng he ng et , nd en nd he ce on he on et .
en ne ld ck er il he ce on he on et is um .
ne ld en se he st et to nd he al ce .
en if we ad he ry of ng a on et , is ve ss ld ke ok ng .
er , it is ve to ee at ns if we ne ng he st ta ( es v nd vi ) .
we ee at as
is ed , he er of rt rs es nd he er of he rt rs at ve um es .
er , or he ry se , he ce es le or he tf es se , he ce es nd en is ed .
he ts em to te at ne an in st nt ce by ng he on he tf ed ta .
er , in at se we st nd me ng or at um , le or he ry es , at is ot he se .
re , re is a at es nt ce on he de on in
ed on ng a er of ta ts , nt re on , nd nt ng ms , we me to he ng ns .
23 ) or he st se ( ll ds ed to er se ) , ms ( ng ry es ) nd ng ( ng tf es ) re he wo st es .
ng as a er or te ut he on of rs is er
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
23 ) in a ce of en ng a op st nd ot ng a
op st , it is le at a op st ot be ed .
23 ) ed on a ew of he re , ll he es ld be ed er an a et .
he re ms to te at re is an um et of es at ds on th he ta nd he hm .
er , ng or he st es es an le od of me .
ng ng 23 on es ly es a ce of st es as rt of he hm nd vm ce es ot de if oo ny es re ed .
23 ) ng me ng ng on es is di -
it ld be ed at se ce es re ed on ta ts ed om nt ls .
en an al ks is or er wn e - il , en he om ld of he ge an be ed .
is an ve he cy in at st wo ys : he er an te a st of le rs at is ys ed as am no er at he ct nd dy ts .
re , rn e - il at is a se to a er ry ll ys be ed as am .
