ct al on es ze ly on ge on ks , se of ty of he re ce .
is er ws at rt or es ( ms ) an ze ll on lt ge on ms re he ly es re gh al ms .
vy - ed bf ls of jx y j th a 23 nd b 23 he rm k ( x; y ) = e re ed on he on of es ed om he el ck to on nd wn to ar rm al al or an al is on ( bf ) ls .
er , we ed at a le ng of he es he ce of ar ms to ut xi ! xa ch an nd at it es em , or is em , a id ve to bf ls .
ex ms el ,
al is ns , rt or es .
ge ns of es re ng le to
he ic , om to ns to eb es or en eo es .
to ex or ve em is a ge ch is he us of ny ch ts ( or ce ms ic ( 23 ) ) .
a ge rt of is ch rk is ed to ng le ns or he es , nd al ly es ns of es .
in is er , we se to se or ms as an ge on se of he le ce at an be ed in te of ir me ty ( 23 ) .
ng is am on , ur al al is to rm ic ct on th a er es ll ch : nd he ne ry of ct at is he st ly to be nt in a
om on es to al ks , re re ny le es or at er to se .
he rt or ne ( vm ) ch is ed a od te se of ts gh on ce ut he ed to dd a ri ge , en en he on of he ut ce is ry gh .
ly , en a et of ts ch gs to er ne of wo es , a ar vm ds he ne ng he st le on of ts of he me ss on he me de , le ng he ce of er ss om he ne .
ng to ( 23 ) , is ne es he sk of ng es of he st et .
pt ed ry 23 , 3; ed il 23 , 23
he rs re th he ch nd ge ng es ch
ry , &t bs - ch , ed nk , nj 23 sa .
er em er s 23 - 23 ( 23 ) 23 - 23
is er ws an al ch , nd ts or - on ds as ly er ts re ed gh ns of he vm re .
on ii es a ef on to ms .
on ii es he ge on em on el to es .
on iv es vm nd nn - ed on es ch re ed by us rk .
om se ts , on v es el es , by er ng he vm el , or ng he ut , at de gh ge on ce th ow al ts .
rt or es
al ng es
we ve in is on a ry ef on to ms .
be a et of ng es , ch le ng he on of he ut ce , gs .
he im is to ne a to a ss ed by ne ch es he et of es ch at ll he ts th he me el re on he me de of he ne .
is ts to ng
if re ts a ne ng ( 23 ) , he et is id to be ly le .
in is se , it is ys le to
i . e . , so at he ce en he st nt to he
en , ( 23 ) es
ng he ng es , he ne or ch he ce to he st nt is al is ed al ng ne ( sh ) .
ce he ce to he st er ts ( 23 ) .
, ng he sh ts to ng
is ed he in , nd us he sh is he ng ne ch es he in .
he in an be en as a re of he on ty : he er he in , he er he on is ed to be ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
is ex , ng it er ar ts ( 23 ) an be ed th ge rs .
if we te
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
on ve ge li - rs ed th ts ( 23 ) , ur on em ts to ng
if we ce
by ts ng in he re ce
nd er nt
is an be ed by he se of rd ic ng
ce he or
on em ( 23 ) as en nd , he sh he ng on :
on of he xi -
he rt rs re he ts or ch
( 23 ) th ty .
ng he on ( 23 ) of on on an us be en as
, he ne ci -
ly le se
en he ta is ot ly le , we ce ck
( 23 ) ch at
to ow he ty of es at te ( 23 ) .
he is to ow ed ts , se of he es ch ve ir ng er nd on he er of ng rs .
he ed sh is en ed as he on of he ng em :
he st
to ts ( 23 ) nd
ed to ol he ng ty as in he le e; he se of he nd rm is to ol he er of is en by he er , a ed ts .
he er ng to ng a er ty to rs .
in ( 23 ) , he ty rm or ns .
en ng th es , st of he me , he on of he ut ce is ge ( ed to he ze of he ng et , so at he ng ta is ly ly le .
ly , he ue
as in is se le ct on ce .
vm ng es to x
if we ve
ed in he ng hm nd he ng ly ed .
ly , en a ic ve el , rs em ( 23 ) es us at re ts a
, en ly
ce a el
ng rs on as en
en , he ng hm ts of ng
nd he on on es
ss ng
ms re ed or ry on .
en ng th al es , as in ct on nd ge on , ne ds an te ss od .
nt es de he ng .
fy he gn of he vm , as in ( 23 ) ,
to te he ss ng ly in he ic ng hm .
ne al ry rs : ne st ne ( 23 ) es se ns en es , le ne st he rs ( 23 ) es a en ss th ll he rs ut er .
ng to a on dy ( 23 ) , he es of se ds re st he me .
as a ce , we se he ne th he st ty , ch is ne st he
in he ne st he rs hm ,
is he er of es .
ch ne es ne ss om he er es .
in is ay , we et of he rm ( 23 ) .
he ss of , i . e . , he ss th
is en by
a ew nt he st on on .
we de he on at ry nt as a le el .
ss , in ge on , an ge ay ng to al es as ts nt is ot ue .
it ld be le to ke ss ng re st , nd nd it to le el on ms by ng or ng es ( 23 ) .
is re ex ch as ot en ed in is er .
ar rt or es
he ut ta is ed to a gh - al re ce gh me ar ng en a ri ( 23 ) .
in is re ce , he sh is ed .
he ta nd ts on
ng he ny le es at an be ed om an ge , we ct es to es ch re al nd ow - el ( he on of he ge to ns , ts or ns is ot in he pe of he nt er ) .
le et al . : ms or am - ed ge on
or he ht nd
he st ay to nt an ge is to er ts ap on .
ng he es of he es in he se re ed to or he th ) , en he ut ta or he vm re rs es .
ch nt of he or is ed to a el in he ge .
me or ks of is on re ts ge ze nd ts ck of ce th ct to ns .
or se ns , ur st ce as he am on ch is ed ly .
or ey - el es nd 23
or ms
in te of he ct at he or am ue is a ry le nd ow - el od , it as wn od ts in ce ( 23 ) ly or ge ng nd al ks , re re on as to be as le nd as st as le .
al es re st , ng at al ns en ts of an ge ot be ed .
is so es ll on nd on ce .
a or is ed by a ee al or re - ng to a on in a or ce .
is es us to ct he or ce nd he on ps in is or ce .
as a or ce , we se he ue - on - ue ( sv ) ce , ch is in on th he ue ( gb ) ce .
he on or he ce of sv is at it is ly ed in he re .
sv is ve in ry .
it is ed re le ce it es he or ts ( hs ) om he lu - ce nt ( v ) nd is ss ve to on es .
te so at es in he sv ce nd to al es in or in a re nt ay an in he gb ce .
er , is es ot em to er in ce .
ll he ts ed in he er se he sv ce .
or he ke of on , we ve ed a ew ts nd ed he gb ce ad of he sv ce , le ng he er ns al : he ct of he ce of he or ce on ce as nd to be al ed to he ts of he er al ns ( ce of he el , ng of he ut ) .
an on or is ct is at , er on to ns , no on ut he or ce is ed by he er .
he er of ns er or nt as en ed to 23 , nd he on of ch am is me ts th a er er of ns ve en en , ut he st ts ve en ed th 23 ns .
we ve ot ed to se is er , se it is ly oo ve .
it is le to te he am om he st al on le .
ng he ge oo ch ts in nt es in ce .
is ay be ed by he ct at by ng , he am es ts rp ks , as el rs rn to es ( ng ) .
ng es of es in he el ck to on
he el ck to on ts of a et of hs ed to ut 23 es , ch ne th
23 es .
or ur ts , he al 23 es ve en ed ng wo nt ng es .
in he st ne , ed 23 , we se to ep he at - es ed by el .
or he ke of on , we se he me et of es as ( 23 ) , ch re : ir ws , rs , ts , rs , an es , ar rs , an ty ls , hs - ds - rs , ld es , ns , ds , ts , es - ts , ht es .
it is nt to te at we ad no ce on he es de in 23 : he es re ed by ( 23 ) nd he es ng a ss re he 23 es we nd in a el ry .
in ( 23 ) , me es ch re ly ed nt th he st of ir ry re ed .
in he ts ed in is er , we se ll 23 es in ch ry nd pt ny us rs : ee or ce , in ig .
23 , he ar ar rt gn ch is ed to be an ge of a ar ar .
th 23 es , is ts in a se of 23 es .
te at me el es me om he me ch of hs : a em ed to fy em ay ly ve to fy or nd
in an pt to id se al ms nd to ve rd a re ic on , we so ed a nd ng ch , 23 , in ch we ed ur wn en es : es , ds , ts , gs , sh , le , es .
he er of es in ch ry es om 23 to 23 or a al of 23 es .
or ch ry es re nd - ed om al al el es .
or le , he es ry es es of ir ws , on hy , er ts nd ww - ii es .
he on of at is an ne is en re al .
le i ws he in of he es or ch ry .
ng he el
he gn of he vm er re is ry le nd ly es he ce of he el ( he ly er ) .
ss , it as to be en ly ce an te el an ad to or ce .
re re ly no es le to rn he rm of he l; as a ce , he st ls ed re ed om he rn on re .
he el ts en ut rs
ts in a er ch as a al on es a an al is on ( bf ) er .
in he an bf se , he er of rs ( er of rt rs ) , he rs es ( he rt rs ) , he ts re ll ed ly by he vm ng nd ve nt ts ed to fs ed th on - ms
nd he ld
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
23 : ch ow es es om he ng en es : ir ws , rs , an es , ht es , ts , ld es ,
ed by he ve ts ed th
we ed at ed ms of bf ls
an be en to be ny ce in he ut rm ms to ce .
in he se of es as ut , he be te ul .
ut as ms re te es , re le on ns st , ly he on , ch as en ed ly or am ns ( 23 ) .
we se re a ed on
it is ot wn if he el es rs on . 23
er us ve is he
ce , ch es
a an bf
23 it is ll le ly he vm ng re to ls at do ot fy rs on .
at is no er ed is at he al ne es me in in a en ce .
le et al . : ms or am - ed ge on
23 : ch ow es es om he ng en es : rs , an ty ls , ns , ds , ts , un - es - ts , ar rs .
he st es of ts re ed to ly ss he ce of he ed ut en - ns nd vm ls on ur wo el ks .
he 23 es of 23 re ed to 23 ng es nd 23 st es .
he 23 es of 23 re it ly en 23 ng nd st es .
he vm or ty er as et to 23 , ch an be ed in st es as ge .
er , in is es of ts , is er ng as nd to ce ll ty or ll es of ls pt he ar ne .
es re ed in he es of he bf ls , he
ly .
re us es ll be ed in he nd es of ts .
le ii ws ry ar ts or th he bg nd sv am ns , nd so , th sv ms , ar rs en 23 nd 23
he ap in ce es ot en , as ly ed by ng bf ls ut th he er ce of ic in he bf el .
an or ce he an bf or te om nd 3% wn
is ed ce is ot ly ue to he ce of he te ic , ut so to he od on of
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
nd - ed es ed th he el se
or es ng he ng ls : ar , al of
ee 23 , an bf , an bf nd 23 bf
al am , he el es re
or es th nn
to te is , we ed me ts of ge am on th a k - st rs ( nn ) hm th he es he st ts .
le ii ts he ts .
as ed , he - ed vm is ll ly
ce is er d; he
ce as od as he
we so id me ts ng he el ge as ut 23 es .
pt in he ar to vm rs th 23 se , he ce of he rt or ch ss as ic , en ng a ne re ry le is a rt or .
he or te er ed ow 3% .
he me se as en ed by ( 23 ) th a on ee er nd he or te as ut 3% , ar to he 3% or te ed th he al on of an sv am nd a nn er .
he 3% or te bf ts a ly ed th he an or
ne al on or he or ce of
or an bf ls es om he ic re of he am on .
et us rt th an le : in ny es , he st te in he am or ds to he ue of he ky .
a ll ft in he or of he ky , ch es ot ct he re of he ct to be ed ( or ce ne or rd ) ts to a ge
- el in in he am ts or a le rm or on in he ge ( th am ) .
a ll ls to a ge of or in is on an ve he ng in , ng in a ly nt am .
if we me at is ng in as ty in he
he el as a ar al ay in he an es , le it as a ic al ay in
he an se .
el gn us ut ng
he ts ed in he us on ow at on - an bf ls th al ay es at re ss an ic an ad to le vm on es on ge ms .
is on es wo ys to ce he ay te of bf ls .
it ws at ne of em ts to a le ng of he ut , in ch se he se of he el ck is ot ys
on - an bf ls
we ce ls of he rm
he ay te nd ro is en by
ng he ue of
in he se of an bf ls ,
ld de or a er ay .
a ta - ng on of fs is at ey re - nd to a re of al es ( ly an ) : in ts to ng vy - ed is se , ng he ue of ns .
ch ns ve en ed in ch on nd ed es ve en ed by ng om ( ar ) ( 23 ) .
te at if we me at ms re en ed nd ro ( ly a ew ns ve ro es ) , ng he ue of ly he me ct as ng . 23
23 an en re al pe of el is k ( x; y ) = ed
;c ( x; y ) =
ng he ue of c es ot ve ce as ch as ng a nd b , nd ly es he er of rt rs .
le et al . : ms or am - ed ge on
23 : ch ow es es om he ng es : es , ds , ts , gs , sh , le , rs .
he ce of
as no ct on rs on as it
ts to a ge of ut es .
es rs on if nd ly if
( ( 23 ) ge 23 ) .
ar ng of he ut
he on of ch nt of he ut or es ot ve to be ed in ms of el ts .
ne an ee it as he st le ar ng of he ut at es ot ct he on .
to ve at on ay ve ss th ct es in le .
ne at he am nt is ed by he ce of or ol in me ct
he ng es us
se he ze of he ct by me ng or er of ls is ed by by he me or .
he ic ng ct to a re le
- on ld er is , ch ms ll he ts ch re ot ro to ne ( we me at
an ng se is
al up
to id a al on of el / ng ns , it is nt to ct he er of ls we ry .
we se ee es of bf ls : an
is or on , we so pt he ar ms .
ee ns on al ks , ol .
23 , no .
23 , er 23
or he ns ed in on ii . a , he ly ge
on we er re is he 23
ur nd es of ts ts to ne a or - nd .
se we re ly ng us re to se ar nd bf ls , we an ce se wo es to ne , a ve on of he ut ta .
in he se of bf ls , we ed ly at ll ty as ys le on th 23 nd as to be en ge gh 23
as a ce , ed to he er of he re ng is al to , ch is ys er an 23 ) .
er , bf ls ll do ot fy .
th er on of at ue to se or he ut ta , we an et
he ut ta ( he ce en
in he ar se , he er of he ta ds on he is nt to he or he ut ta .
ay it is ed .
he ce of ce of a ve or if , in ( 23 ) , we ce
ar al ns re ed to th 23 nd 23
ch ry is ed to ee ts , ch ng ne rd of he es , ed as ng , on nd st ts .
or ch ue of he ut on , rt rs re ed om he ng et nd ed on or ch we on he on et .
he in he st lt is en ed to in a et of rt rs om th , he ng nd he on ts .
ch le ls : he 23 el ge ns nd um up to am or ts ge om 23 to
ey re ed th
ly , he al es re 23 es se he or te by es ng om 3% to 3% .
is ry se ng te as nd to be nt or ll ls pt an fs .
in he er se , we
23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 .
al
he al ce lt is ed on he st et .
to in re st es , we ed is re ee es , ch me th a nt st et : he er of ng es is he al er of ta ( 23 or 23 nd 23 or 23 ) .
on 23 , ch of he ee ng ns ed 23 es nd ed en 23 nd 23 rt rs to te ne ss om he rs .
on 23 , ch of he ee ng ns ed 23 es nd ed en 23 nd 23 rt rs to te ne ss om he rs .
he ms nd he re ed to in he ms re ed by na ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
ge or es on 23
ch mn ds to a nt el .
he st ne ts he ge er of rt rs ed or he ll er ( i . e . , 23 ne st he rs vm rs ) .
he xt es rt he
or es ng ar ut gs ( on by a )
ge or es on 23
rm an on ds on he ne , we nt he ee in es of ns we nd in ur vm rs .
lt ic ng nt on ch as he ly - dd or he on of he te ue of he ce en wo or ts .
is is he al ra - on of he el ot ct .
is on an be ed if th ts re ro , ut we me at ng is on ly es re me an he on an be ed to a lf .
he on of rt re ot pt in he ar bf se , he er of lt is he ng or .
in he ar se , he on on ( 23 ) ws he rt rs to be ly ed : re is ly ne lt er ss nd nt .
in he bf se , re is ne lt er ss , nt nd rt or .
23 , he er at se of he on by 23 rs on he le ls he er of rt rs .
ns of is er re ly ed by es in he ut on
an be ed in ce .
in he ar bf se , he er of rt is om - ng .
rt is in ry ed or ch nt of he el ct : ic er nd ce ns an be ed or ts th ue ro .
is is he er we rt
on ts
we so ed he on ed to fy ne ge am .
ce he er of es ed to
he is of he es vi ws he ng cs at ly ly to th 23 nd
le et al . : ms or am - ed ge on
al ts or 23 , ed as he er of ns or he on of ne le , ed by 23 23
as ed , ng
as ng .
( re mn on th es iv nd v ) .
as ly he me ct
or th , 23 nd 23 , he st ce is
or am on , an bf ls re ly er an ar ms nd re nd sv ( er of rt rs ) es re ns at
ar bf ls re no er an an bf ) nd re oo ly ls ( ed at ve : a me - ng re ot is ed or ro ts of ry rt or .
or he al se of bf ls , ry re - ts ay so be an ue .
a ll ng nt ep - on of 23 rt rs , ch th 23 ts , es 23 es of ry .
to 23 es ar ms a ry ve on or ny ns : ts or te is ly 3% er an he st bf - ed vm , le ts pu - al nd ry ts re al rs of de er an or he st nt bf - ed
ld ly od ts , nd ow at at is nt ut a am in is ot ts ue , ut er it ns ny el at ll .
te at in is se , an , an , nd ar fs re ly nt .
he ut ce as 23 ns : is is gh gh to ce ll ty in he ar se .
er , en ng or th he on et , a on th ng ns as ed ( nd 3% or on he se of 23 nd 3% or in he se of
le ii ts he ss - on ix ng
to he se of he an el on 23 th ( se es ld he st ts or th 23 nd 23 ) .
he st on ns en en ds nd es , ch is nt .
in is er , we ve wn at it is le to sh he on ce ed on ge ms to ly gh ls th or es as ow as 3% or he on of 23 el es nd 3% or a re ic et of ts .
is is ed ut ny er ge ut he sk an he ct at he ut is me rt of or am or te ty .
ss - on ix or a = 23 : 23 nd b = 23 : 23
or le , ow ( 23 ) es at on he 23 es of he es ry , 23
ve en ly ed , 23 ve en ed in ds , en in ts , ur in gs , nd 23 in es
is ly od ce is ue to he or on ty of ms in gh - al es to he se of vy - ed fs as ls nd to in - ar ns ed to he am in es .
we ce ed in a bf ed ow he ce of he el ts ce on am on , nd nd an bf ls to be or to he rd an bf ls .
as a ar on of he ng om 23 in es , we ed - on th wn to 23
in he se of bf ls , he ng of ve ar ts , nd ir ed ce ds he
he ng of
es he ce of ar ms to ch an nt at it es em a id ve to bf ls , ng le ce or a on of he al nd ry ts .
is ts a ew gy or he se of ms en he on of he ut ce is ly gh .
er an ng ls ed at ng is on en er , ch ay ot be ul , it is ed to st ry ar ns of he ut ts in on th ar ms .
he ns ay be rs of de er nd he es le .
is rk an be ed in al ys .
er - el al es an be ed to he am es .
al - ng or he on of le ts in a le ge ld ke is on - ed ue le or ge al : an ge ld be ed by he st of ts it ns .
ms re ed to ze er es of ta an es , nd an be ed , or ce , or ud on ns .
it ld be ng to te if he me pe of el gs he me ns
