cal ing ory was ced in the ate 23s .
til the 23s it was a ely cal sis of the lem of ion ion rom a ven ion of ata .
in the dle of the 23s new pes of ing hms ( led ort tor nes ) sed on the ped ory ere sed .
his ade cal ing ory not nly a ool for the cal sis but lso a ool for ing cal hms for ing nal ons .
his cle nts a ery ral iew of cal ing ory ing oth cal and mic cts of the ory .
the oal of his iew is to ate how the act ing ory hed ons for ion ich are ore ral han ose sed in cal tis - cal gms and how the ing of ese ons red new mic hes to ion ion rob - ems .
a ore led iew of the ory ( out ofs ) can be und in nik ( 123 ) .
in nik ( 123 ) one can nd led ion of the ory ( ing ofs ) .
ing of the ing lem
in his ion we der a del of the ing and how
hat sis of his del can be ted in the ral cal ork of ing ted oss ing ob - ved ata .
we how hat cal ems uch as ern ion , ion ion , and ity ion are lar ase of his ral del .
ion ion del
the del of ing rom les can be bed
ing ree nts :
123 ) a tor of dom ors
, awn tly
rom a xed but own ion
123 ) a sor hat rns an put tor
, ing to a nal ion
, lso xed but wn;
123 ) a ing ine ble of ing a set of
the lem of ing is hat of ing rom the ven the one ich cts the set of ons ors nse in the est ble way .
the ion dom ent lly is sed on a ing set of ted ( i . i . d . ) ons awn ing to
lem of isk ion
in der to ose the est ble ion to the ors nse , one res the oss or ncy of the sor to ded by the a ven put ing ine .
der the ted lue of the oss , ven by the isk nal
een the nse
and the nse
zes the isk nal
is to nd the ion
( ver the ass of ons in the ion ere the int bil - is own and the nly ble
ion is ned in the ing set ( 123 ) .
ree ain ing ems
his ion of the ing lem is her ral .
it ses any cic ems .
low we der the ain nes : the ems of ern ion , ion ion , and ity ion .
ake on nly two ues
the lem of ern ion : let
be a set of tor ons ( ons ich ake on nly two ues ero and one ) .
der the
for his oss ion , the nal ( 123 ) des the oba - ity of ion ror ( i . e . , hen the ers by sor and the ers ven by tor ion fer ) .
the lem , ore , is to nd the ion ich zes the ity of ion ors hen is own , but the ata ( 123 ) are
the lem of ion ion : let
set of eal ons ich ins the ion ion
be a eal lue , and let
it is own hat if hen the ion ion is the one ich zes the nal ( 123 ) ith the the
ipt ved ary 123 , 23; sed may 123 , 123
the hor is ith t&t abs - rch , red ank , nj 123 usa .
her tem ier s 123 - 123 ( 123 ) 123 - 123
123 his is the ral ase ich des a ase ere the sor ses
a ion y = f ( x ) :
hus the lem of ion ion is the lem of ing the isk nal ( 123 ) ith the oss ion
nik : iew of cal ing ory
( 123 ) in the ion ere the ity ure own but the ata ( 123 ) are ven .
cal isk ion ple and the cal ods
the lem of ity ion : lly , der the lem of ity ion rom the set of ies for his lem we der the ing
it is own hat red ity zes the isk nal ( 123 ) ith the oss - ion ( 123 ) .
hus , ain , to ate the ity rom the ata one has to ize the isk - nal der the ion ere the ing ity mea -
is own but i . i . d
the erm ple is ite ral .
the cal ods for ing a cic ing lem , uch as the ast res hod in the lem of ion ion or the mum ood hod in the lem of ity ion are ons of the erm ple for the cic oss ons red ove .
in der to ify the ion lem one
and ses oss ion ( 123 ) .
ing his oss
ion in the nal ( 123 ) lds the nal
ich one eds to ize in der to nd the ion ate ( i . e . , the ast are hod ) .
in der to ate a ity ion rom a ven set of one ses the oss ion ( 123 ) .
ing his oss ion nto ( 123 ) one ins the mum ood hod : the nal
ich one eds to ize in der to nd the ima - ion to the ity .
nce the erm ple is a ral ion of ese cal ion ems , any ory ing the erm ple ies to the cal ods as ell .
our rts of ing ory
ing ory has to ess the ing our ons .
123 ) hat are the ons for ncy of the erm
to wer his ion one has to ify the ces - ary and ent ons for nce in oba - 123 of the ing ces of the dom ues .
the ues of sks mal ble lue of the isk
ing to the are the ted sks for ach ing the cal
ing to the
the ral ing of the ing lem : the ral ing of the ing lem can be bed as ows .
let the ity ure der the set of ons ize the isk nal
be ned on the ace
the oal is : to
if ity ure
is own but an i . i . d .
ple
the ing ems red ove are lar ses of his ral lem of ing the isk nal ( 123 ) on the sis of cal ata ( 123 ) , ere is the cic oss ion ( for ple , one of ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , or ( 123 ) ) .
low we ill ibe lts ned for the ral ent of the lem .
to ply it for cic ems one has to ute the ing oss - ons in the las ned .
bes a air
cal isk ion ion ple
in der to ize the isk nal ( 123 ) , for an own the ing ion ple is
the ted isk nal
is ced by the
cal isk nal
mal ble lue of the isk
ted on the sis of the ing set ( 123 ) .
the ple is to ate the ion
zes isk ( 123 ) by the ion cal isk ( 123 ) .
his ple is led the cal isk ion ion ple ( erm ple ) .
123 nce in ity of ues r ( ` ) ans hat for any " > 123 and for any > 123 ere sts a ber 123 = 123 ( " ; ) uch , hat for any ` > 123 ith ity at ast 123 the ity
r ( ` ) r ( 123 ) < "
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
ion ( 123 ) ows hat ons und ing erm rge to the est ble one .
ion ( 123 ) ows hat ues of cal isk rge to the lue of the est isk .
123 ) how ast oes the nce of est cal isk ues rge to the est ual isk ? in her rds hat is the ate of ion of a ing ine hat nts the cal isk ion
123 ) how can one rol the ate of nce ( the ate of
ion ) of the ing ine ?
123 ) how can one uct hms hat can rol the
his ype of nce is led orm one - ded ver -
in her rds , ing to the key rem the ons for ncy of the erm ple are ent to the ons for nce of orm one - ded nce
his rem is led the key rem use it rts hat any sis of the nce ies of the erm ple ust be a rst ase sis .
the ary ndi - ion for ncy ( not nly the ent ion ) nds on her or not the ion for the rst ion ver the ven set of of ons
ate of ion ?
the ers to ese ons orm the our rts of
123 ) the ory of ncy of ing es; 123 ) the tic ory of the ate of nce of
123 ) the ory of ing the ion of ing
123 ) the ory of ing ing hms .
the ory of ncy of ing ses the ory of ncy is an tic ory .
it de - bes the ary and ent ons for nce of the ons ned ing the sed hod to the est ble as the ber of ons is sed
why do we eed a ory of ncy if our oal is to
uct hms for a all ( ite ) ple ize ?
the wer is : we eed a ory of ncy use it des not nly ent but ary ons for nce of the cal isk ion ive ple .
ore any ory of the cal isk ion ple ust sfy the ary and ent ons .
in his ion , we uce the ain ity ept ( the so - led kis ( vc ) opy ich nes the ion ity of the erm ple .
in the ext ons we how hat the tic ory of ing is sed on ent pes of nds hat ate his ept for a xed unt of ons .
the key rem of the ing ory
the key rem of the ory ing the erm - sed
ing sis the ing ( 123 ) .
the key rem : let
be a set of ons
hat has a ded oss for ity ure
ges in ity to ero .
rom his rem it ows hat the sis of the erm ple res an sis of the ies of orm nce of the ons to eir ies ver the ven set of ons .
the ary and ent ons for orm nce
to ibe the ary and ent ion for uni - orm nce ( 123 ) , we uce a ept led the on the ple opy of the set of ons
we uce his ept in two eps : rst for ets of tor ons and hen for ets of eal - ued ons .
opy of the set of tor ons : let
be a set of tor ons , hat is the ons ich ake on nly the ues ero or one .
der a ple
let us ize the ity of his set of ons on the ven ple by a ity the ber of ent ons of his ple hat can be ned ing ons rom the ven set of tor ons .
let us ite his in her orm .
der the set of
- nal ary ors
kes ous ues rom
hat one ins hen is the ber of dif - ent ces of the - nal ube hat can be ned and the set of ons on the sis of the ple
let us all the lue
hen for the erm ple to be ent it is ary and ent hat the cal isk to the ual isk
ver the set
the dom opy .
the dom opy bes the ver - ity of the set of ons on the ven ata .
is a dom ble nce it was ted ing dom i . i . d .
now we der the ion of the dom opy ver the int ion ion
nik : iew of cal ing ory
on les of ize
the set of ons
his ity the opy of the set of tor it nds on , the ity ure , and the ber of ons the opy bes the ted ity of the ven set of tor ons on the ple of ize
the ain ult of the ory of ncy for the pat - ern ion lem ( the ncy for tor oss ion ) is the ing rem ( 123 ) .
rem : for orm two - ded nce of the fre -
ies to eir 123
it is ary and ent hat the ity
tly ing the ion ( 123 ) one can ain the ary and ent ion for one - ded orm con -
opy of the set of eal ons : now we ize the ept of opy for ets of eal - ued ons .
let be a set of ded oss ons .
ing his set of ons and the ing set ( 123 ) one can uct the ing set of
his set of ors ngs to the - nal ube ith be the ber of nts of the
and has a ite - 123 in the ric
- net of the set of ors
the thm of the ( dom ) lue
is led the dom vc - 123 of the set of ons
on the ple
of the dom vc - opy
is led the vc - opy of the set of ons
on the ple of the ize
123 the ets of tor ons r ( ) nes ity and emp ( )
123 the set of ors q ( ) ; 123 has mal " - net q ( 123 ) ; ; q ( n ) if : 123
ere ist n = n ( " ; 23; ; z` ) ors q ( 123 ) ; ; q ( n ) ; uch hat for any tor q ( ) ; 123 one can nd ong ese n ors one q ( r ) ich is " - ose to his tor ( in a ven ric ) .
for a c ric hat
( q ( ) ; q ( r ) ) = max
jq ( zi ) q ( zi; r ) j " :
n is mal ber of ors ich ess his rty .
123 ote hat vc - opy is ent rom cal cal " - opy
cl ( " ) = ln n ( " )
ere n ( " ) is ity of the mal " - net of the set of ons q ( z; ) ; 123 :
is ken ith ect to uct - ure
the ain lts of the ory of orm nce of the cal isk to ual isk for ded oss ion des the ing rem ( 123 ) .
rem : for orm two - ded nce of the em -
cal sks to the ual sks
it is ary and ent hat the ity
tly ing the ion ( 123 ) one can ain the ary and ent ion for one - ded orm con -
ing to the key ion his ies the ary and
ent ons for ncy of the erm ple .
ree nes in ing ory
in his ion , for ity , we der a set of tor ( i . e . , we der the lem of ern ion ) .
the lts ned for ets of tor ons can be zed for ets of eal - ued ons .
in the ous ion we ced the opy for ets
of tor ons
now , we der two new ons hat are ted the led vc - on the sis of the ues
and the wth ion
ese ons are ned in uch a way hat for any
are lid .
on the sis of ese ons , the ree ain nes in cal ing ory are ted .
in the ous ion , we ced the ion
ing the ary and ent ion for sis - ncy of the erm ple .
his ion is the rst one in ing ory : any ine ing cal isk uld sfy it .
nce of ned sks
his ion ays ing out
the ate of to the mal one it is ble hat the erm ple is ent but
has ary low tic ate of nce .
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
the ion is : der hat ons is the tic ate of nce
we say hat the tic ate of nce is ast if for
the ial und
the ure of the wth ion
rem : any wth ion her ses the ity
or is ded by the ity
lds rue , ere
is ome ant .
is an ger for ich
bes the ent ion for ast nce . 123 it is the ond one in cal ing ory : it ees a ast tic ate of nce .
ote hat oth the ion ing the ary and ent ion for ncy and the one hat bes the ent ion for ast nce of the erm hod are lid for a ven ity ure ted ing his ure ) .
ver our oal is to uct a ing ine for ing any ent ems ( i . e . , for any ent ity res ) .
and vc - led opy
the ion is : der hat ons is the erm ple ent and dly ing , tly of the ity ure ? the ing ion bes the ary and suf - ent ons for ncy of erm for any ity
his ion is lso ent for ast nce .
his ion is the ird one in cal ing ory .
it bes the ons der ich the ing ine ing erm ple has an tic igh ate of nce tly of the lem to be ved .
ese nes orm a ion for ing oth ion ent nds and ous ion de - ent nds for the ate of nce of ing ma -
nds on the ate of nce
of the ing ses
in der to ate the ity of the erm hod for a ven ple ize it is ary to ain tic nds on the ate of orm nce .
a tic und of the ate of nce can be ned ing a new ity ept , led the vc ion , ich ows us to ain a ive und for the wth ion .
the ept of vc - ion is sed on a ble
rty of the wth - ion
123 the ity of his ion for ast nce is pen ion .
in her rds the wth ion ill be her a ear ion or ill be ded by a mic ion .
( for ple , it not be of the orm
we say hat
the vc ion of the set of tor is ite if the wth ion
for his set of ons is ear .
we say hat
the vc ion of the set of tor if the wth ion is ded by a mic ion ith ent
is ite and als
the ess of the vc - ion of the set of tor ons ted by the ing ine rms the ary and ent ion for ncy of the erm hod ent of ity ure .
ess of vc - ion lso ies ast nce .
ent ion of the vc ion
in his ion , we ive an ent ion of the vc ion of ets of tor ons and hen we ize his ion for ets of eal - ued ons .
the vc ion of a set of tor ons : the
vc - ion of a set of tor ons is the mum ber be ted in all 123 ( red by his set of ons ) .
if for any sts a set of
ble ays ing ons of his ors ich can be red by the set
hen the vc - ion is ual to ity .
the vc ion of a set of eal - ued ons : let be a set of eal - ued ons
ded by nts
let us der ong ith the set of eal - ued ons
the set of tor ons
is ome ant ,
is the tep ion
the vc ion of
the set of eal ued ons is ned to be the vc - ion of the
set of tor ons ( 123 ) .
123 any tor ion tes a set of ors nto two ets : the set of ors for ich his ion kes lue ero and the set of ors for ich it kes lue one .
nik : iew of cal ing ory
two ant les
123 ) the vc - ion of the set of ear tor unc -
ase the set of lly ded ons : out
ion in ity , we ume hat
in - nal ate ace , nce ing ons of his set one is the tep can ter at ost ion , ich kes lue one , if the ion in the ets is ive and kes lue ero ise .
123 ) the vc - ion of the set of ear ons
use the vc - ion of
in - nal ate ace lso ual to ing ear tor ons is ual to
oes not ges the set of
ple 123 : we all a ane
- gin ing ane if it ies ors
( ons of ors
hat all nto the gin
rem : let ors .
hen the set of
ong to a ere of ius - gin ing nes has the
ded by the ity
ese les how hat in ral the vc ion of the set of nes is ual ity of put ace .
ver , the vc ion - gin ing nes ( ith a rge of the set of his act ill lay lue of gin an ant ole for ing new ion ion
can be ess han
ion ent nds for the ate of nce of ing ses
the ain ult in the ory of nds for ets of lly
ded ons is the ing ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
rem : ith ity at ast
, the ity
lds rue sly for all ons of the set ( 123 ) ,
for the set of tor ons , his rem des nds for the sks of all unc - ons of the set ( 123 ) ( ing the ion zes cal isk ( 123 ) ) .
the nds low rom the und on orm nce ( 123 ) for ets of lly ded ons hat ave ite vc ion .
ase the set of ded ons : der
set of ( ive ) ded ons
is asy to how ( by ing an ple ) hat , out nal ion out the set of ded ons and / or ity res , is ble to ain an ity of ype ( 123 ) .
low we use the ing
is ome xed ant . 123
the ain ult for the ase of ded ets of oss
ons is the ing ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
rem : ith ity at ast
lds rue sly for all ons of the set , ere is ned by ( 123 ) ,
the rem nds the sks for all ons of the set
( ing the ion
der ets of ons ich ess a ite vc -
ion we ish een two ses :
123 ) the ase ere the set of oss ons
is a set of lly ded ns;
123 ) the ase ere the set of oss ons
is not ily a set of lly ded ons .
123 his ity bes ome ral ies of ion ons of the dom les = q ( z; ) , ted by the p ( z ) : it bes the ils of ons ( the ity of big ues for the dom les ) : if the ity ( 123 ) ith p > 123 lds , hen the ons ave so - led ght ils ( rge ues do not urs ery ten ) .
in his ase pid nce is ble .
if , ver , ( 123 ) lds nly for p < 123 ( rge ues of the dom les cur her ten ) hen the ate of nce ill be all ( it ill be ily all if p is tly ose to one ) .
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
lem of ing ous ( ion ent ) nds
ple ize ) . 123 the oal ate for a ven ple ize .
is to ify ods ich are
to uct ous nds for the ate of nce one has to ake nto unt ion out ity be a set of all ity res and let we say hat one has ior
ion out an own ity ure one ows the set of res
be a set of the set
der the ing ion of the wth unc -
for tor ons
and for the eme
the zed wth ion
des ith the wth ion wth ion des ith the led vc - opy .
ins nly one ion
for her eme
the ing ion is rue ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
rem : ose hat a set of oss - ons is ded
hen for tly rge
the ing ity :
ral isk ion ion ple
the erm ple is ded for ing ith a rge ple ize .
eed , the erm ple can be ied by is rge , the ond ing the ies ( 123 ) .
hen and on the ght and ide of ity ( 123 ) mes all .
the ual isk is hen ose to the lue of the cal isk .
in his ase , a all lue of the cal isk des a all lue of ( ted ) isk .
is all , hen ven a all
oes not tee a all lue of isk .
in his ase the res a new ple , sed on the ous ion of two rms in ( 123 ) one of ich nds on the lue of the cal isk ile the ond nds on the vc - ion of the set of ons .
to ize isk in his ase it is ary to nd a hod ich , ong ith ing the lue of cal isk , ols the vc - ion of the ing ine .
the ing ple , ich is led the ple of ral isk ion ( srm ) , is ded to ize the isk nal ith ect to oth cal isk and vc - ion of the set of ons .
the set of ons
a ure : so hat
be ded ith is sed of the ted ets of
rom his und it ows hat for tly rge ith one hat zes the cal isk ) the ing ity
sly for all
an ble ure is one ing the ing ree
123 ) the set 123 ) the vc - ion
is ere nse in of ach set
of ons is
123 ) any ent
of the ure ins lly ded
the srm ple sts hat for a ven set of ser -
and ose the lar ion rom
ose the ent of ure
his und is ive use ory oes not ify a hod to ate the zed wth ion .
to ake his und ive and ous one has to ate the zed wth ion for a ven set of oss - ons and a ven set of ity res .
his is one of the ain cts of the ent ing ory
ory for ing the
ion of ing nes
the ory for ing the ion of a ing ine is ted to ing an ion ple for ing the isk nal ich kes nto unt the ize of the ing set ( an ion ple for a all
the eed isk ( 123 ) is mal .
the srm ple lly sts a off een the ity of the ion and the ity of the ses , the ima of em - ing ion .
( as cal isk are ed; ver , the erm ble for the nce val ( and in ( 123 ) ) is sed .
the srm ple kes oth ors nto unt . )
the ain lts of the ory of srm are the ing
rem : for any ion ion the srm hod des nce to the est ble ion ith rob -
in her rds srm hod is lly gly con -
123 the ple ize ` is red to be all if `=h is all , say `=h < 123 :
nik : iew of cal ing ory
rem : for ble res the hod of ral rge to the est
isk ion des ons ich the nce of sks
ith tic ate of 123
if the law
is uch hat
the ate of ion
is the und for ons rom
ory of ing ing hms
the srm ion ple in ing hms one has to rol two ors hat ist in the und ( 123 ) ich has to be zed :
123 ) the lue of cal sk; 123 ) the ity tor ( to ose the ent
ate lue of vc ion ) .
low we ict ves to the ern ion ase .
we der two ype of ing nes : 123 ) ral rks ( nns ) hat ere red by the bio -
cal ogy to the in;
123 ) the ort tor nes hat ere red by sta -
cal ing ory .
we ill uss how ach ing ine can
rol ese ors .
ods of ing nes and
der rst the lem of ing cal isk on
the set of ear tor ons
can nd the act ion ile hen the mum of his nal is ero one can nd an ate ion .
ore by ing a ing ane one can rol the lue of cal isk .
ely the set of ing nes is not ex - ble ugh to ide low cal isk for any eal - ife
two ies ere red to ase the ity
of the ets of ons :
123 ) to use a her set of tor ons ich are
ons of ear tor ns;
123 ) to map the put ors in igh nal ure
ace and uct in his ace a ane ( see ple 123 in ion iii - c )
the rst dea nds to the ral ork .
the ond
dea ads to ort tor nes .
oid ion of tor ons and ral ets
to ibe the dea ind the nn let us der the hod of ing the nal ( 123 ) .
it is ble to use lar ent - sed ods of ion to min - ize his nal .
( the ent of the tor ion is her ual to ero or is ned . ) the ion is to ate the set of tor ons ( 123 ) by so - led oid ons
is a oth nic ion uch hat
for ple , the ons
are oid ons .
for the set of oid ion , the cal isk nal
it has a ent rad
is oth in can be zed ing ent - sed ods .
for ple , the ent ent hod ses the ing ate ule :
be a ing set , ere
is a tor ,
to ize the cal isk one has to nd the pa - ( hts ) ich ize the
cal isk nal
ere the ata a cal mum , it is ugh hat
nds on the ion for nce of the ent ent hod to sfy the ons
ere are ral ods for ing his nal .
in the ase hen the mum of the cal isk is ero one 123 we say hat the dom les `; ` = 23; 23; rge to the lue
123 ith tic ate v ( ` ) if ere sts ant c uch hat
v 123 ( ` ) j` 23j ! p
hus , the dea is to use the oid ion at the age of ing the nts , and use the tor ons ith ese nts at the age of ion .
the ion of his dea ads to ard nns .
in der to ase the ity of the set of ion les
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
of the ing ine one ers a set of ons ich are the ion of ral ear tor unc - ons ( rks of ons ) ( 123 ) ead of the set of ear tor ons ( gle ron ) .
all tor ons in his ion are ced by oid ons .
a hod for ing the ent of the cal isk for the oid ion of nns , led the rop - ion hod , was und ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ing his ent ent hod , one can ine the ing oef - ent ues ( hts ) of all nts of the nn .
in the 23s , it was ven hat the vc ion of nns nds on the ype of oid ons and the ber of hts in the nn .
der ome ral ons the vc ion of the nn is ded ( ugh it is tly rge ) .
ose hat the vc ion oes not nge ing the nn ing ure , hen the ion ity of nn nds on how ell the nn zes the cal isk ing tly rge ing ata .
the ree ain ems red hen ing the cal isk ing the ion hod are as
123 ) the cal isk nal has any cal ima .
ion res tee nce to ome cal mum .
in ral the ion ich is und ing the ent - sed ure can be far rom the est one .
the ity of the ned ion nds on any ors , in lar on the ial ter ues of the thm .
123 ) nce to a cal mum can be her low ( due
to the igh ity of the ght - ace ) .
123 ) the oid ion has a ing tor ich cts the ity of the ion .
to ose the ing tor one has to ake a off een ity of ion and the ate of nce .
ore , a ood ion of the cal isk de -
nds in any cts on the art of the her .
the mal ing nes
to uce the hod ich is an ive to the nn
let us der the mal ing nes ( 123 ) .
ose the ing ata
can be ted by a ane
we say hat his set of ors is ted by the mal hy - ane ( or the mal gin ane ) if it is ted out ror and the nce een the est tor and the ane is mal .
to ibe the ing ane let us use the low -
in the ing we use a act ion for ese ual -
it is asy to eck hat the mal ane is the one hat ses the ons ( 123 ) and zes nal
( the ion is ken ith ect to oth tor
the ion to his ion lem is ven by the
dle int of the nge nal ( ian )
be zed ith ect to
are nge ers .
the ian has to and zed ith ect
in the dle int , the ons
sfy the ons
ing ese ons in cit orm one ins the ing ies of the mal ane .
123 ) the nts
for the mal ane uld
sfy the nts
123 ) the ers of the mal ane ( tor
are ear ion of the ors of the ing set .
123 ) the ion ust sfy the ing ker
rom ese ons it ows hat nly ome ing ors in ion ( 123 ) , the ort ors , can ave ort ors are the ors for ich , in ( 123 ) , the ity is ved .
ore we ain
in the ion of
ing the ion for
ack nto the ian the ker ons , one
and ing nto unt ins the nal
it ins to ize his nal in the ive
nik : iew of cal ing ory
der the int
ing the ion for as an ion on ort ors
in ( 123 ) we ain the ane
the mal ane in the ase hen the ata are rly ble , we uce ive
and the nal
the lem hen ses of how to lly eal ith uch igh - nal ces : to uct a ial of ree 123 or 123 in a 123 - nal ace it is ary to uct nes in a ion - nal ure ace .
in 123 , it was ted ( 123 ) hat for oth ing the mal ing ane in the ure ace ( 123 ) and ing the ing nts of ion of the ing ane ( 123 ) one ses the ner uct of two ors , ich are ges in the ure ace of the ore if one can ate the
ner uct of two ors in the ure ace as a ion of two les in put ace
ich we ill ize ect to nts
ing the ame ism ith nge ers one can how hat the mal ane lso has an ion can be und by ( 123 ) on ort ors .
the nts ing the ame tic orm as in the ble ase ( 123 ) der tly ent nts
han it ill be ble to uct the ons ich are ent to the mal ane in the ure ace .
to get his ion one nly eds to ace the ner uct
in ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ith the ion
in her rds , one cts ear ion ons
in the put ace
hat are ent to the ear ion ons ( 123 ) in the in ( 123 ) are ned by ing ure ace .
the nts
the ort tor ork
the ort - tor ork nts the ing dea ( 123 ) : map the put ors nto a ery igh - nal fea - ugh ome ear ing sen a ori .
in his ace uct an mal ing ane .
the oal is to ate the ion bed in ple 123 of - gin ing nes the ion iii - c , ere for vc ion is ned by the tio ell , we rol ( ase ) the vc ion by ing an mal ing ane ( hat zes the gin ) .
to ase the gin we use ery igh nal ces .
ple : der a ing hat ows us to uct ion als in the put ace .
to uct a oly - ial of ree two , one can ate a ure ace ich
tes of the orm
the ing ane con - ted in his ace is a ing ond - ree ial in the put ace .
to uct a ial of ree
put ace one has to uct ace , ere one hen cts the mal ane .
in an - nal
der nts ( 123 ) .
in 123 cer ved a rem ich nes the ral
orm of ner cts in ert ces .
rem : the ral orm of the ner uct in ert ace is ned by the ric ive ite ion
hat ses the ion
for all ons
ing the ity
ore any ion
ing ers ndi - ion can be sed for ing ule ( 123 ) ich is ent to ing an mal ing ane in ome
the ing nes ich uct ion ons of the ype ( 123 ) are led ort ors rks or ort tor nes ( vms ) . 123
ing ent ons for ner cts
can uct ent ing nes ith ary pes of ( ear in put ace ) ion ces .
123 his ame ses hat for ing his ype of ine , the dea of ing the ion on ort ors is ial .
in the svm the ity of ion nds on the ber of ort ors her han on the ity of the ure ace .
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
for ple to ify als of any xed der
one can use the ing ons for the ner uct in the ing ure ace :
ial sis ion nes ith ion ons of the
can be ted by ing a ion of the ype
in his ase the svm ine ill nd oth the ers and the ing hts
the svm ses ome ful ies .
the ion lem for ing an svm has
a que ion .
ing ata ) , the nce val ill be rge .
in his ase , ven if one uld ize the cal isk own to ero , the unt of ors on the est set uld be big .
his ase is led ing .
to oid ver ing ( to get a all nce val ) one
has to uct rks ith all vc - ion .
ore to ize ell ing an nn one ust rst est an ate ure of the nn and ond nd in his ork the ion hat zes the ber of ors on the ing ata .
for nns oth of ese rob - ems are ing ing ome ics ( see rks on the
in ort tor ods one can rol oth ers : in the ble ase one ins the que ion ich zes the cal isk ( own to ero ) ing a ing ane ith the mal gin ( i . e . , set ith the est vc ion ) .
in the ral ase one ins the que ion hen
one ses the lue of the ade off ter
the ing ess for ing an svm is her
sly ith ing the ion ule , one
ins the set of ort ors .
ion of a new set of ion ons can be
one by ing nly one ion ( nel ich nes the dot uct in
why can ral rks and ort ors rks ize ?
the ion ity of oth the nns and ort ors rks is sed on the ors bed in the ory for ing the ion of the ing ses .
ac - ing to his ory , to tee a igh ate of ion of the ing ine one has to uct a ure
on the set of ion ons of the ure hen ose oth an ate ent and a ion zes und ( 123 ) .
the und ( 123 ) can be ten in the ple orm
hin his ent
ere the rst erm is an ate of the isk and the ond is the nce val for his ate .
in ing an nn , one nes a set of ble
ons ith ome vc - ion of ing ata the lue
nes the nce val for the ork .
ing the ate ent of a ure is ore a lem of ing the ork for a ven ing set .
for a ven unt
ing the ing ess his ork zes the rst erm in the und ( 123 ) ( the ber of ors on the ing
if it ens hat at the age of ing the ork one cts a ork too lex ( for the ven unt of
his cle nts a ery ral iew of cal ing ory .
it tes how an act sis ows us to ver a ral del of ion .
ing to his del , the ion ity of arn - ing nes nds on ity pts ich are ore ted han ely the ity of the ace or the ber of ree ers of the oss ion ( ese con - pts are the sis for the cal igm of ion ) .
the new ing of the sms ind gen - ion not nly ges the cal ion of ion ( for ple rom the new int of iew the cam zor ple is not ays ect ) , but lso ges the mic hes to ion ion ems .
the ach bed is her ral .
it can be ied for ous ion ion ems ing ion , ity ion , ing rse ons and so on .
cal ing ory ted ore han 123 ars ago .
the ent of his ory did not lve any re - ers .
ter the ess of the svm in ing eal - ife ems , the est in cal ing ory tly sed .
for the rst ime , act cal lts in cal ing ory ave a ect act on mic ols of ata sis .
in the ast ree ars a lot of les ave red hat yze the ory of nce and the svm hod rom ent ves .
ese ude :
123 ) ing ter ive nds han the cal one bed in his cle ( ich are ser in rit to the ive und sed on the wth ion han on nds sed on the vc ion ept ) .
ess in his ion uld ead , in lar , to ing nes hat ize ter han the svm sed on the ept of mal ne;
123 ) ing the svm ogy to any ent ems
of ion and ata - is;
123 ) ing a ory hat ows us to ate els hat ess ble ies ( for ple hat can rce ble nts ) ;
nik : iew of cal ing ory
123 ) ing a new ype of ive nce hat is sed on ect ion rom the ing set to the est set , ing the ate lem of ing a ion ( the ive ype nce ) .
the ope is hat his ery ast ing rea of rch ill
tly ost all hes of ata sis .
the hor hes to ank f .
ier for ons and
ing to ake his cle ore ear and ble .
