act we udy the use of ort tor nes ( vms ) in ing e - ail as pam or pam by ing it to ree her ion hms : per , hio , and ing ion ees .
ese our hms ere ted on two ent ata ets : one ata set ere the ber of res ere ned to the 123 est res and her ata set ere the ity was ver 123
vms med est hen ing ary res .
for oth ata ets , ing ees and vms had ble est nce in rms of acy and eed .
ver , vms had tly ess ing ime .
dex rms ing hms , ion , e - ail , fea -
ure ion , per , hio , ort tor nes .
we ine pam as an e - ail age hat is un -
lly it is the nic ion of unk ail hat is red by the tal ice .
one of the ons for the ion of pam is hat ulk e - ail is ery eap to end and ugh it is ble to ild ers hat ect e - ail if it is rom a own mer , it is asy to ain ive ing ses .
ood ine ces and ion out pam ude ttp : / / pam . use . net , ttp : / / www . uce . org , and ttp : / / www . nke - ail . org .
ere ave een ous pts to use ing nes hat ify e - ail ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ons to the ion of pam are her cal or ory ( 123 ) .
cal ons ude ing sed on der ess or der ent .
the lem ith ing is hat mes a lid age may be ked .
hus , it is not our ent to lly ect e - ail hat is ied as pam .
her , we ion the ing rio : in the ing ode , ers ill ark eir e - ail as her pam or pam .
ter a ite ber of les are ted , the ing ine ill be ned and the nce on new les ted .
the ser can hen oke the e - ail ier ely or ait til the ber of les is ugh uch hat nce is ble .
ter the ing ode is ete , new e - ail ill be ied as pam or pam .
in one ion ode , a set of new e - ail ges is ted in a ner ent ith the ime of ery and the pam ges lor - ded .
it is hen up to the ser to her ead the e - ail or ash the e - ail .
an ive ion ode is to ver e - ail to the ser in ing der of ity hat the e - ail is pam .
hat is , e - ail ith igh ity ( ing to
ipt ved ary 123 , 23; sed ril 123 , 123
ker is ith t&t abs - rch , red ank , nj 123 usa , and is lso ith the ent of nic ing , uth ity , est ong nch , nj 123 - 123 usa .
wu is ith aer nic ute , roy , 123 usa .
nik is ith t&t abs - rch , red ank , nj , 123 usa .
her tem ier s 123 - 123 ( 123 ) 123 - 123
the ier ) of ing pam is at the top of the ist .
in her of ese des , the ter oes not ect any ges , nly tes her the age has a igh ity of ing
it is hly ble hat if the ser des hat e - ail ges be ank - red by ree of nce hat the ank ing be ble .
by ble , we ean hat the ser can her art at the top of the ist of e - ail ges and be rly ent hat hey ent pam ges or art at the tom of the ist and be ent hat the ges are pam .
it is nly ear the dle of the ist ( low nce ) hat it is ble to the ser hat a few pam or pam ges may be ied .
ore , it is ant hat our ing thm not nly ify the ges tly but hat a ure of nce is ted ith hat ion so hat the age can be
in the ext ion a ber of ign ces are ned .
in ion iii we ibe the ata ets and nts .
in ion iv , we how how ion of the one ter in vms ges nce .
the ons are ted in ion v .
ign ces
ure ion
a ure is a ord .
in the ent low ,
is a ure tor hat is sed of the to a ord , ous rds rom a ary med by ing the nts .
ere is one ure tor per age .
to a ght tor lly ned rom ome ion s .
ere are ous ves and nts in
ors .
we der ome of hem :
erm ncy : the th ent of the ure ars in hat tor is the ber of mes hat ord ent .
in our ase , a ord is a ure nly if it urs in ree or ore nts .
( his nts led rds and rds sed ely rom ing in the ary ) .
mes the ure tor is zed to nit gth .
tf - idf ses the ove tf ied by the idf ( rse ent ncy ) .
the ent ncy ( df urs in all the is the ber of mes hat ord nts ( ing rds hat cur in ess han ree nts ) .
the rse ent ncy ( idf ) is
ker et al . : vms for pam ion
is the ber of nts .
lly , the ure tor hat sts of the tf - idf ies is zed to nit gth .
ary ion ich tes her a lar ord urs in a lar ent .
a ord is a ate nly if it urs in ree or ore nts .
use of a top ist in ion to any of the ove : rds ike of , and , the , etc . , are sed to orm a top ist .
rds on the top ist are not sed in ing a ure tor .
the ale for his is hat mon rds are not ery ful in ion .
the ent nst ing a top ist is hat it is not ous ich rds , ond the ial , uld be on the top ist .
it may be ous hat les ike a , an , uld be on the top ist .
ver , uld a ord ike now be on the top ist ? the ice of rds to put on a top ist is bly a ion of the ion ask and it uld be ter if ing thm elf ned her a lar ord is ant or not .
use of ord ing : rds uch as ild , der , and ing are ned to the ord tem ild .
his ers the ize of the ure tor but it may be the ase hat ain rms of a ord ( uch as the ive nse ) may be ant in
ber of res
the ice is een ing ome of the res or all of the res .
in ext ion , a ure is a ord .
one ble age of ing a ite ber of res is ter ion .
by ion we ean hat ood for - nce on the ing set zes to ood nce on a ate est set .
ing on the ing thm , it may be the ase hat ere is an mum set of res , ess han the tal ber of ble res .
for ple , if the ity of the ion ace is ter han the ber of les , hen the les may ays be ble by a que ane ith ero ing ror ( ing the rns are ent ) .
nce ere are , in ral , an ite ber of ing nes , one oes not ain the mal ing ane ( the one hat has the est est nce ) .
a few of the sms ned to nd the mum ber of res ( and the est res ) are ( 123 ) ent ncy ing , ion ain , ual ion , .
in ing two ing hms , erm gth , and ang and sen und hat , ept for ual ion ain , all ese ure ion ods had lar for - nce and lar ics .
hat is , as the ber of res sed was sed rom all the res to ome ler ber , the est nce ved .
hen , nce the ber of res sed low a cal lue , the est ror ate sed .
ten ims ( 123 ) did lar nts and com - red ve ing hms ing ave yes , hio , - est ors , 123 ( 123 ) and vms .
he und hat , ept for svm and yes , the mum ber of res was ess han the tal ber of res .
for svm , ing
all the res ave ter nce han any of the her
the ain age of ing for the est res is hat it res nal ime in the ing thm .
in the ase of ion ain and ual ion ain , the res are ked by the ure ion hod rom igh to low , ich is ear in the ber of les and ear in the ber of res ( ing tic ity ) .
hen , to nd the mum ber of res , one ust ply the ing hms to ent set zes to nd the mum ror ate .
hus the ity of the thm to nd the mum ber of res is at ast tic mes the ity of the ing thm .
it uld be far ter if the ing ine elf her ade the ure ion lly or sed all the res .
123 has the mer tic ile vms ave the ter .
nce ria
all and ion : in ion val sks , ocu - nts uld be ned ple ies .
for nce , a ory out the igh ges of all ers uld be zed as ing to oth the erm ial and the erm rts .
hen ere are ple ies , nce res uch as all and ion ( 123 )
ies und and ect
tal ies ect
ies und and ect
tal ies und
nce our lem is a two - ass ion ask , all and ion are not ded ere .
ror ate : ror ate is the cal nce ure for two - ass ion mes .
ver , two arn - ing hms can ave the ame ror ate , but the one ich ups the ors ear the ion der is the
lse arm and iss ate : we ene the lse arm
and iss tes as
lse arm ate
pam les ied
tal pam les pam les ied
tal pam les
the age of the lse arm and iss tes is hat hat hey are a ood tor of her the ors are ose to the ion der or not .
ven two ers ith the ame ror ate , the one ith wer lse arm and iss tes is the ter one .
we x the iss ate and try to nd the thm hat zes the lse arm ate for hat xed iss ate .
ese tes ill ond to the ror tes ged ing ten - old oss ion .
in ten - old oss ion , the ire set of les is ded nto ten ely ual ets .
ine of the ten rts are ing for ing , one of the ten rts is sed for ing .
his is ted ten mes , ach ime ing her est set .
the tal ses and lse rms are ted and ded by ten mes the ber of est les
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
is ore ate han ing the ten lse rms and iss
all hat hat ven if an put age is nly ied as pam hen it is not , it is ill ted to the ser for the ate ion .
ing and ion eed
the e - ail ver may be a nit on ich any ers ave an unt .
ore , the ing ime ust be ble and the ion eed ust be ast .
lly , his ves out ral rks ich ake ive ime for ing .
we ore ied the ing our hms : ing ( ing ion ees ) , per , hio , and ear vms .
the rst two are ear ing hms but can be ery ast in ion and the ast two are ear .
ice of ing hms
123 ) ing hms : the ing hms ( fig .
123 ) are ues to ine a ber of eak ers to orm an ble .
the erm eak ner ves rom the pac ( bly ely ect ) ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ing ity and tes hat the ing thm can arn ith ror ate tly ter han 23% .
123 ion ees are ate eak ers ven ugh eir ror tes can be uch ter han 23% .
his ion of ing rks as ing : ain the rst ber of the ble ith ing les .
in der to ain the ext ber of the ble , the ity hat a ing ple ill be ked to ain the ond ber of the ble is ted rds for ard les and own for asy les .
by ard les , we ean ose les hat the rst eak
ach ber of the ble is tly ned on les ked rom the nal ing set ith eir ies ted rds or rds ing on her the ous ers of the ble ied the ing ern tly or tly , ely .
for our eak ner , we use ion ees ilt ing a ion of 123 .
use ion ees can ild dis - ted ion ons , hey are ear .
ion ees can be ery ast in ion .
an age of 123 is hat res are ked as art of the ing thm and ore ere is no eed to ank der the res by ome her ism ( ike ual ion ) rst .
123 ion ees are ilt by ing a ure ted to ion ain and his can be ime ing use it has to be one ple mes ( ual to the ber of des in a ree ) .
ing has een own to ive the ror ate far low hat of one eak ner .
oth the ing hms elf and the ing of ion ees ake ing ong ess ere is a all ber of ees in the ble .
ver , ere is no way to ict in nce how any ees uld be in
in fig .
123 arn ers in our ase to a 123 ype thm .
hen the ion is ted , a cal hod of ing a ing set for his ber of the ble is as ows .
ing thm .
uct ine nts of gth
ith tal gth ers at dom rom hat tal gth .
if the ber is rom val sed as one of the ing les for hat und of ing .
it may be the ase hat ple ies of a lar tor are sed in ing and no les of asy ing les
, hen ple
it is lso ant to ote hat in ing
, all the ing les are sed in hat ion ven if hey ere all not sed in ing .
123 ) ort tor nes : vms are sed ten - ely in his sue .
lso see ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
the key pts ere are two ses , led ing les : is the ion -
to use are the ing :
, and ere are
ity of the tor .
if the two ses are rly ble , hen one can nd an is um; and
mal ght tor
ker et al . : vms for pam ion
ing les hat sfy the ity are med ort ors .
the ort ors ene two nes , one hat oes ugh the ort ors of one ass and one oes ugh the ort ors of the her ass .
the nce een the two nes nes a gin ( 123 ) and his gin is zed hen the orm of the ght is mum .
nik has own we may orm his ion by ing the ing ion ith ect to the les
ect to the int :
nts the dot uct
ort tor .
for an own tor nds to ing
ere it is med ere is one of the ing ors , and is med a
and the sum is ver the
ero ort ors ( ose
the age of the ear ion is hat
be ted ter ing and ion nts to ing the dot uct of his mum ght tor ith the put tor .
for the ble ase , ing ors are wed and
we now ust ize
ect to the int
is tic in
but the int is now
is a ack ble and ows ing les to ist in the ion een the two nes hat go ugh the ort nts of the two ses .
we can tly nts and may be ved ing tic ing ues , ome of ich are lar to vms ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
the age of ear vms is hat ion eed is ery ast and ere are no ers to une ept the .
we ill how hat the nce of the svm is bly ent of the ice of is rge ( ver 123 ) .
her age of vms is hat hey are bly ant of the ive zes of the ber of ing les of the two ses .
in ost ing hms , if ere are any ore les of one ass han her , the thm ill end to tly ify the
as ong as
ass ith the ger ber of les , eby ing own the ror ate .
nce vms are not tly ing to ize the ror ate , but ing to ate the rns in igh nal ace , the ult is hat vms are ely ive to the ive ers of ach ass .
for nce , new les hat are far ind the nes do not nge the ort ors .
the ble ges of vms are hat the ing ime can be ery rge if ere are rge ers of ing les and ion can be low for ear vms , her of ese ses ing ent ere .
123 ) per : per is a ram for ing ion les rom a set of les .
ike the her hms , it oes not eed a ure tor .
it rms hen les ich are ons of ons , e . g . ,
is red to be pam if and nly if
( ord ree ars in ) or ( ord low ars in and ord ost ars in ) ( ord ! ! ! ! ars in ) .
per ( 123 ) rks by ing les to ver ive xam - les and hen nes ose les to orm a est t to a ate ing set .
the ges of per are as ows .
the hen ses are asy for ans to and .
per is ery ast in ing and ing .
per ows ers to ply ior dge con -
per ows ues to be nal , ous , or set -
per is ear .
123 ) hio : his ype of ier ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ses mal - zed tf - idf ion of the ing ors .
a ype
tes the ber of nts hat are ied as pam or pam .
nts of the ype tor hat are is zed to nit gth .
ive are set to ero and hen ion is med by the dot uct of the ype tor and the ate est tor .
ose ith rge ive dot cts are pam and ose ith rge ive ues are pam .
ike any of the hms sed sly , ere is no ral old for the dot uct .
hat is , the thm oes not ell us for hat ues ove a cal lue of the dot uct uld we ify the ent as pam .
his cal lue ust be ned by ank ing the uts of dot cts of the ype tor ith all the ing ors and ing hat cal lue hat zes the ing ror .
we ize hat the est ors uld not be sed to nd hat old .
rly , the mum lue uld not be ned rom the est set .
it uld be ned rom the ing set and it is hat the ing ror .
the age of ios thm is hat it is ast in ing and ing .
the age is hat
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
for ata set i , lse arm tes ing to a 23% iss ate .
x tes hat per was ble to
ain the 23% iss ate for ese two ata ets and hus no lse arm or ror tes are ted
one has to rch for the mum old and the mum on the ing set ich kes tra ing ime and oes
not ily ize ell to the est set .
her ext ion ods may be und in ( 123 )
ata ets
we sed two ata ets .
ata set i was ted by an t&t aff ber and sts of 123 ges hat he red pam and 123 ges hat ere pam .
all e - ail ges ist of a ect and ody and the ous hms ere ied on her the ect one , the ody one , or the ect and ody her .
in ion , a top ist was her sed or not sed and all rds ere ted to wer ase .
the 123 est res in ach ase ere sed ( ked ing ual ion ) .
the nal ure ies are tf ( erm ncy ) and uld ter be ted to tf - idf or ary res .
hus ere ere six ata ets ted rom the nal
rds rom the ody nly out ing a
rds rom the ody nly and the top ist was
rds rom the ect and ody out
ing a top ist
rds rom the ect and ody ing a
rds orm the ect out ing a top
rds rom the ect ing a top ist .
lts are own in ble i .
it can ore be een hat the est ror tes are ven by ing the ect and ody out ing a top ist ( top ) and hat svm uld be sed ith ary res .
to put the ror tes in ext , it uld be ted hat the est ple ize is 123 and hus a nce of ely 123 can be ted to a cal nce of one ror per run of the ten - old oss ion ror ate ate .
hus ere is not uch nce on top een svm ing ary res and ing .
it uld be zed hat the pam ter ill ver lly ect any ges ied as pam .
the use of the lse arm and iss tes is a ism to
the ond ata set was ted rom ers of the t&t cal aff who ded eir pam and pam
ror and lse arm tes for ata set ii ing a ary ing of per and ase rds
ror and lse arm tes for ata set ii ing a ary ing of ase rds nly
to the ors .
nce the pam had ady sed ugh the t&t all , it uld be ted hat the pam uld be der to ify .
ere ere 123 pam and 123 pam ges .
her han ing the ure tor to a ite ize we sed all rds in the ges as ong as hey red in at ast ree ges .
ore , ing was not sed .
per was ble to eve her a 23% or 23% iss ate .
his ata set had two ons .
in ion i ( ble ii ) , rds hat ere all als ere ned but rds hat ere a ure of per and wer ase ere ted to wer ase .
the ale for his is hat we uld ure hat rds ike ree uld ore ely to cur in pam han rds ike ree .
hus , ese two rds uld be two ate res in his ion of the ase .
ore the ord ree if it red in the ect at ast ree mes and the ody at ast ree mes uld be two ate res .
the net ult is hat the ure tor of ion i was of ize
nce ain , use of ary res is red for svm and ing ive ely ual nce if nce is sed on raw ror ate .
ith ely 123 ges in the est set , one ror nds to a cal nce of 123 123
as ted out sly , the lse arm tes ive a ure of ion of the ors .
ore , on his sis ugh ing and svm ing ary res are ble in ror ate nce , svm is uch ter in rms of ion of ors .
ker et al . : vms for pam ion
ror , lse arm , and iss tes for ata set ii ing
a ary ing of ase rds nly
ror and lse arm tes as a ion of the per und c for ary ata ing ase rds nly
in ion ii of his ata set , all rds ere ted to wer ase ich red the ity to 123
the lts for his ata set are own in ble iii .
rst , in ing les ii and iii , we see hat ere is no age in ing rds hat are all per ase .
ond , it ars hat nce ain , it is ter to use ary res ith svm nes .
lly , ugh ing has the ter nce in rms of raw ror ate , the ead of ors is ter ing svm ith ary res .
ing nts her han the lse arm ate due to a xed iss ate may be of est .
ore , in ble iv , we ent the iss ate due a xed lse arm ate and the ing int ere the lse arm tes and iss ate are ual ( ast umn ) .
ese lts are ent ith the ons ach sly , ely hat ing is ior in rms of est ror ate but hat svm is ter in rms of the ead of ors .
the ing mes for ing and ing ave not een zed for her ing nes or vms .
ver , nce the svm nly has to ute one dot uct , it uld be ted to be ter han ing 123 ion ees .
oth ave ble eds , in the der of nds for ing ion ees and nds for svm .
his oes not ude the ime to rse a age to ild up its ure set .
ver , ere is a ble nce in ing ime for ees nst hat of vms .
in our rch ion of ese hms , ing ees ake urs to ain and vms , in the der of tes .
the age ree ize for his ase is ely 123 ees ich ake ely ong to ild .
hus sed on a ion of ing ime and nce , vms are ior .
ere are two ons we eve hat the ing ime for vms ith ary res can be ced .
the rst is hat the ors are ary and the ond is hat the ure ors are rse ( lly nly 23% of a tor is ero ) .
his ows the dot uct in the svm ion to be ced ith ter ive nes .
nce as a ion of per und the per und
cts nce for the ses ere the ing ata is not ble by a ear svm .
in ral ere is an mum lue of his ant .
ver , not be ned be ing the his est lue of ing ata and it is air to do so by ing the est ata .
nly by ing a ird set of ata , a ion set , uld it be
ror and lse arm tes as a ion of the per
und c for tf ata ing ase rds nly
ble to ize for
in hat ase , one uld ize ing the ing set , and hen nd the nce on the ion set .
hen one uld ick her til the nce on the ion set is mum .
one uld hen use the est set to nd the nal nce .
ven if we had the ury of ing a ion set , his ive ess uld ake ook ong .
ver , it is ive to see hat ens if we une ing the est ata ( les v and vi ) .
we see hat as
is sed , the ber of ort ors ses and the ber of the ort ors hat ave mum ses .
ver , for the ary ase , the nce des ile for the tf res ase , the nce ves and hen is red .
the lts eem to ate hat one can ain ost ent nce by ing the on the tf ted ata .
ver , in hat ase we ust end ime ing for hat mum , ile for the ary res , hat is not the ase .
ore , ere is a hat ves ent nce on the ide ion in
sed on ing a ber of ata ets , ent ure ion , and ent ing hms , we ome to the ing ons .
123 ) for the est ase ( all rds ted to wer ase ) , vms ( ing ary res ) and ing ( ing tf res ) are the two est tes .
ing has a wer ror ate but the ion of ors is ter
eee ons on ral rks , vol .
123 , no .
123 , ber 123
123 ) in a ice of een ing a top ist and not ing a
top ist , it is ble hat a top ist not be sed .
123 ) sed on a iew of the ure , all the res uld be sed her han a set .
the ure ems to ate hat ere is an mum set of res hat nds on oth the ata and the thm .
ver , ing for the est res kes an ble iod of ime .
ing ing 123 ion ees tly ses a ice of est res as art of the thm and svm nce oes not ade if too any res are sed .
123 ) ing ime ing ing ion ees is rdi -
it uld be red hat ese nce res are sed on ata ets ted rom ent als .
hen an ual rks his or her own e - ail , hen the rom eld of the age can be sed .
his can ove the acy in at ast two ays : the ser can ate a ist of ble ers hat is ays ted as pam no ter hat the ect and ody nts .
ore , urn e - ail hat is a nse to a ser ery ill ays be ted as pam .
