we ent a hod for ing ive rns rom ata .
ith his hod , rge ses can be ced to nly a few ive ata en - ies .
our ork ses lso ods for ing ses ing ted ata .
oth on - ine and off - ine hms are sed and men - lly ked on ses of ten ges .
the ity of the ork kes it an ive ate for new ons in dge ery .
rds - dge ery , ine ing , ing , ion ain .
ive rns , ata
ses ten ain ant ata .
it uld be ent if rge ses uld be ced by nly a set of ive rns .
a ult , yet ant lem , is to ine hat ive rns are .
we use the ing tic ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) : ven a del ned on a nce of rns , to ict by a del ned on sly een ata .
ith hat ion , we ive on - ine and tch hms for ing ive rns .
the ues ere ped for ion ion and ity ion ems .
ems , but are lso ble
a new ern
ive rns are ten xed ith her " bad " ers ich rre - ond to ors ced non - lly in the ase .
for ses ing ors , our hms can be sed to do ter - ded ata ing , ith or out ion .
we iew ral lts of nts in ing ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ich ate the ess of our ata ing ues .
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
bel one w ~ vel -
ure 123 : all ple ase ing " ros " and " nes " .
( a ) a ata try .
( b ) a nce of ata ies ing a ing ion ing the ion of the ise vel .
the rns ich are ost ing are ost ive .
in his ion , we ume hat the ata is tly ean .
rst , we ive an ion of hat ive rns ght to be .
hen , we how hat his ion des ith the ion tic ion .
lly , we ive hms to ver
123 ive rns are ost ing
in ure i , we ted a all ple ase ing nly ten ros and . nes .
ost rns of a ven ory ook lar .
a cal ero is a cle and a cal one is a cal bar .
ver , ere ist her pes of ros and nes .
if we ted to eep nly a few ata ves , we uld bly eep at ast one ple of ach sic ape .
to ose the est ata ves , we run an ary ent .
ine
hat we und 123 ple who did not now at all hat the ape of a ero and hat of a one are .
we ach ose ple to ize ros and nes by ing hem ine the rns of our ase in nce .
ery ime we how hem a new age , we rst ide the bel and let hem ake a ess .
we how in ure 123 the age lue of the ses for a lar nce of ata .
nce we med hat our cts had ver een a ero nor a one ore the ent , out 23% sed " ero " and 23% sed " one " hen hey ere own the rst ern .
but , for the ond ple of the ame ape , the ity ade the ect ess .
as ing oes on , iar pes are sed ore and ore ely rid the age of ong ses ses nly lly hen a new
we ent ith the ize of a ion ark the age unt of ise hat was ted ong our cts hen the rue bel was red to hem .
ple who sed the ect bel ere not sed ile ple who ade the ong ess ere sed .
we see on ure 123 hat a rge age ise
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
ith the ion of a new ape .
ore , the vel of ise is a ood ion of how ive a ern is .
ore lly , the vel of ise ies in the ite ion as the ity
of ing the ect bel pk ( ~ k = yk ) = p ( ~ k = yk ( z ~ ; ( 123 , 123 ) , ( zl , yl ) , . . . ( xk - 123 , yk - 123 ) ) l .
his ity of ing the ect ess is ely hat is ved in ons
ere sk is an age , yk e ( 123 , 123 ) is its ted bel , k - 123 is the ber of ata ies een hus far and ~ k is the bel ted for ern xk .
the log ncy res ity of ion ies .
in the ion tic nse , the ata ies hat are ost ive are ose hat are ost ing .
123 ine ing ues
it is hat tic let us now ace ple ith nes .
to ire 123 ant ple to ate the ion ain .
in the ine ing ork , rns awn rom a ase are ted to the ing ine ich kes ons .
the ion ror is ted and sed to ove the acy of her ons by ing the ing ine
hat we ned 123 ent
its own lue of ~ k .
his is red
ing nes ( ing our 123 ple ) , ach one ing to as a " ian " ach ( 123 ) .
ula 123 can be ily sed to ine the ion ain .
al - is a tly lid hod , we ose ere a ore cal one : we ain a gle ing ine to ive an ate pk ( yk = 123 ) of the ity the ect bel is " one " ( ure 123 ) .
our ion ~ k ill me the ost ely ory ing to pk ( yk - " 123 ) .
in ula 123 , we ute
l= ~ k ( yk - " 123 ) to pk ( yk " - 123 ) .
any ine ing ues can be ied to ver ive rns .
for ple , the ing ine can be a ple k - est - bor ier rns ted to the ier are red .
jbk ( yk " - 123 ) is ven by the ion of the k ing rns hat are est to xk ich ave bel " one " .
her ple is a ral ork ned ith a " oss - opy " ost ion for ich the ion ain is the ost ion elf .
the ean are ror ost ion ( yk - - pk ( yk - - 123 ) ) 123 des an ion ion ich nks rns in the ame der as the oss - opy ost ion and can ore be sed as ell .
in the ing , we use the ize of the bol " ion ark " , in the res , and to ent the ion ria sed to ure the
in the ext ,
the ion i ( k ) ,
3to be tly ect , the ity uld be lso ned on the del ass .
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
the ion ain ( or ise vel ) .
ure 123 : a ing ine sed to ict in the cal ine ing ork , the oal is to ain the ing ine , in our ork the oal is to ver the ive rns of the ase ( hed ine ) .
to ide a del of the ata or to ake ons .
123 on - ine hms
and tch hms
in an on - ine thm , rns are ted in nce and the ing ine sts its ers at ach ion of a new ern .
his is a ion lar to hat of our ple of ion 123 .
in hat ase , we ill say hat a ern ive if the ion ain eds a pre - ned old .
the age of his hod is hat ive rns end on the nce in ich rns are ted .
ver , ere may be cal ons ere the ata is nly ble
in a tch thm , ely , all ata ies are ble at nce and the for - if ere are p ata in the ase , we eed to ain p nes , ach one on all the ata but one his is ble nly if
ion ain is ent on ern ing .
his ies hat , ern , and hen try to ict hat ast ern .
in ice , ing is ive , as for the k - est - bor thm .
for her tch hms , we her ain the ing ine nly nce on all the ata .
we hen ate the ion ain of ach ern ith an ate of how uch the ive ion ain uld ase if we ved hat ern rom the ing set .
for tch hms all the rns of the ase are ely ked ing to eir ion ain .
the m ost ive rns can be ted to ent the ire ase .
123 max hms
max hms are tch hms hat are rly ell ted to ver ive rns . - ost hms ain the ing ine to ize the age oss ( e . g .
the ean - are - ror ) .
max hms ize the mum
aai - 123 hop on dge ery in ses
ere w nts the ers of the ing ine and k uns ver all ata ies .
max hms are eme ses of ome " ive ing " ods ich ize the rns ith rge ion ain ( 123 ) .
the ion of a max thm is a ion of nly a all set of the ing rns , ely led
ese are the rns
hat ave mum oss .
in nce ( 123 ) , we ose and udy a max thm for ion
ems : the mum gin ier .
the thm ize the mum nce of the ing rns to the ion ary .
it is own hat the ion w* is a ear ion of sis ons of the ive rns :
ak > 123 ,
ere yk ~ ( 123 , 123 ) tes are all ros , ept for the ive rns .
we use the lue of the ost ion at the ion as ive ion ion :
the ass hip and the ak nts
rom ich we ive and ate of the ion ive ern k :
oss red by ing the
one ant ion is : hat is the ate of wth of the ber of ive rns ith the ize of the ase .
the lts of nts ied out on a ase of ten its ing the mal gin ier est a mic wth , in the ime hen the ber of rns is all red to the tal ber of nct rns ( ure 123 ) .
her max hms ave een sed for ion
and ion ( 123 , 123 ) .
123 ata ing
in his ion we kle the lem of eal rld ses ich may ain cor - ted ata ies .
we ose ata ing hms and yze tal
123 age rns are lso ing
the ion tic ion of for , , , ive ern oes not ays ide ith the mon nse ion .
in ure 123 , we how les of rns awn rom our ase of " ros " and " nes " , ich ave a rge ion ain .
we see two nds of rns :
rns hat are lly age rns : ess or led rns .
ive : cal pes or ous pes .
aai - 123 hop on dge ery in ses
123 obo . eof
ure 123 : ion of the ber of ive rns as a ion of the ber in the ase .
nts ere ied out on a ase of rit - ten its , ded ith 123 eal - ued bal res ved rom the pen ory ion .
a ial ier of ree 123 was ned ith a max lgo - thm ( mal gin ier ) .
the ive rns are the rns for ich i ( zk ) = ak #
ess " " " led
ure 123 : ( a ) ive rns sus ( b ) age rns .
are xed ith age rns ich lso ate a lot of ise ( i . e .
ave rge ion ain ) .
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
ure 123 : low ram of on - ine ing .
in the ess of ing , rns ich ion ain eds old 123 are ned by a man tor .
ood rns are ept in the ase and ent to the zer for ion .
bad rns are ved rom the ase .
uly ive rns uld be ept in the ase ile age rns
uld be ted .
ely tic ing uld be med by ing lly all pat - rns ith sly rge ion ain .
ver , his is ous nce ble ive rns may lso be ted .
ely ual ing , by ing all in the ase , is ous and cal for ery rge ses .
we pro - ose a ter - ded ing hod ere a man tor ust eck nly ose
ion ain and are ore ost ous .
hat ave est
123 on - ine hms
and tch hms
in ure 123 we ent our on - ine ion of ata ing .
it nes ing and ned ith a few ean ing in one gle ion .
the ing ine is lly les .
at tep k of the ing ess , a new ern xk is ted ing ine .
the ion of the ing ine and the red lue yk are sed to ute the ion ion i ( k ) .
if i ( k ) is low a ven old 123 , the ern is tly ent to the ing ine for ion .
ise , the ern is ent to the man tor for ing .
ing on the ion of the tor , the ern is her
hed or ent to the ing ine for ion .
the ata has een sed , oth ing and ing are ted , nce the ing ine was ned nly on ean ata .
his is an age if her use is ade of the ing ine .
but on - ine ing has ral ges :
one has to ind ind an ate old 123
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
ain ( ise vel )
i ~ ! lly ove i
i ~ | the bad ata esi
ith the ~
ure 123 : ock ram of tch ing .
the ing acl ~ ne is ned on ean ata .
the ion ion uld be ost the ing ine eds to be for ing by the man tor .
ter ing ,
hat ern uld be ved .
the ase
to ain a ood del and / or ake ood ons .
nly the top ked rns
to the ion
for ach ern
ing ine may be wer in ing the ime of the tor .
the rns ich
the hod nds on the der of ion of the ns;
is not ble
to ert a ion on her a ern
is ood or bad .
tch ods are red
is ted as ned
med on all rns , " ood " rns eds a ven old .
may be ary
der of ion
in ons 123 and 123 .
the ata ies
the rns
ain of the are ned by the the ber of ive
if the ase ins ted
rom the top ( ost ous ) ,
his ure ral
the ion of tch ing
in hat ase , nly ive rns
be ned .
in ure 123 we how the rst ate een the git " two " and all ak ( our ate of the ion ain rom ion 123 ) is a age ern .
( the mum gin ier
and max hms
mes to ove all " bad " rns .
ion ain ) eed ( 123 ) ) .
the ier
ned ith a
the her its .
the rns ith est
of mal ing
we may der how ble
hat uld be tes
did we ove too any or too few rns ?
ues are : did we ine all
for ing ? ong the rns
hat ere tes
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
ned by a max thm
ure 123 : the ive rns gin thm ) , for the ion of ten git " two " nst all her ( 123 ) .
rns are ted by a 123 rey - vel xel - map .
the ive rns are own in der of ing ion ain . ( a ) her ses : ral ous or cal pes are ong the rns ith est
for ass 123 : a age ern mes rst .
( b ) ive rns
ing ror ( % )
ion ror ( % )
ure 123 : ata ing lts ing a int of mal ing ( 123 ) .
a ral ork was ned ith a ean - are - ror ost ion to ize ten ase ers .
the ion is 123 cal res of the pen ory .
a ing ata set of 123 ers and a ion ata set of 123 ers rom int set of ers was sed for lea ~ ing .
ing ith the " ned " ase , ral els of ing ere ied by the man or; ach age was ore ict , red the nce for nal - ity ers .
to est the wer of the ing que , we lso ted the ial , ned ase , by lly ing 23% of the ers in the ing set ( eft ost umn ) .
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
we can ain use our ing ine to ide us ith an wer .
in the per - nts of ure 123 , we ied the unt of ing .
the ata was lit nto a ing set and a ion set .
the ing ine was ned on ata rom the ing set ith ous nts of ing .
it was ted ith the ean ata of the ion set .
we rve hat , as ore rns are ved ugh the ing ess , ror ate on the ing set ses .
his is ble nce the ing ask to the ing ine .
the ion ror ver oes mes ier and ier ugh a mum .
his is use we ove rst nly lly bad rns , ing ~ ble ive rns hat we ook for age rns .
the mum of the ion ror is the int of mal ing .
if our ion ror oes not go ugh a mum , ore rns uld be ned and red for
it is not ays ble nor ble
the ase nto a ing and a ion set .
her way of ing the int of mum ing is to use the ons of the nik - kis ( vc ) ory ( 123
ing to the vc - ory , the int of mum ing is the mum of the so - led " eed isk " , ich is a und on the ion set ncy of ors :
bd ( 123 - - ~ ~ + 123 ) + m ( ln ~ + 123 )
ere / ~ is a ant ich was lly ned ith the hod de - is the ncy ing ors hen m
bed in nce ( 123 ) ( / ~ - 123 ) , et , . , , , , ( m ) ous rns ave een ved rom the ing set , p is the ber of ain - ing rns ore ing ( p - - 123 ) and d is the vc - ion .
ese ons can be ade nly if the ity ( or vc - ion ) of the ing ine is own and if the ing thm oes not arn the ing set ith in our nts on ata ing wi ~ h ral rks ( ure 123 ) ( 123 ) we " ned ood ent een the ion of the vc - ory and hat of the ion set , ven ith a ery ugh ate of the vc - ion .
in act , we ked the ess of the vc - ion of mum ing ith ect to a nge in the ate of the vc - ion .
we und no ant nge in the ion of the mum in the nge 123 < d < 123
we ted a ter - ded hod for ing ive rns and ing ata .
we sed his hod on ous ses of ten ers .
the lts the ber of ive are zed in ble 123
it is ant to ess rns ies sub - rly ith the ber of ata ies and hat ing ime ies sub - rly ith the ber of ata ies .
the int of mum ing can be dby een a ing set and a ion set .
our ing hod rly ity of the ata , as red by the ent in ion a est set ent rom the ing to her ems han ion ems ( ion or ity ion ) ich kes it ive
our ork is ral and ies
the vc - ory ich oes not ire ing
in dge ery .
for new ons
aai - 123 hop on dge ery
: f ( f . ~ = . , p , m , d )
123 123 123 123 123 123 123
% ved ems
a ral ork was ned
ure 123 : ion of the int of mal ing ith ral ork was ted ree .
ers ) .
g has een led
to 123 ( ely to fit on the ure .
the ame as in ure 123
the vc - ion of the of the ber of
the mum red
