act .
dna cro - ays now mit sts to een nds of nes sly and ine her ose nes are ive , ive or ent in mal or ous sue .
use ese new cro - ray ces ate ing nts of raw ata , new cal ods ust be ped to ort out her cer ues ave ive res of ene ion ver mal ues or her pes of cer ues .
in his per , we ess the lem of ion of a all set of nes rom oad rns of ene ion ata , ded on dna cro - ays .
ing ble ing les rom cer and mal nts , we ild a ier ble for tic sis , as ell as rug ery .
ous pts to ess his lem ect nes ith ion ues .
we ose a new hod of ene ion ing ort tor ine ods sed on ive ure ion ( rfe ) .
we ate lly hat the nes ted by our ues eld ter ion nce and are lly ant to cer .
in ast ith the ine hod , our hod tes ene ncy lly and lds ter and ore act ene ets .
in nts ith mia our hod red 123 nes hat eld ero ave - one - out ror , ile 123 nes are ary for the ine hod to get the est ult ( one ave - one - out ror ) .
in the lon cer ase , ing nly 123 nes our hod is 23% ate , ile the ine hod is nly
rds : sis , tic sts , rug ery , rna ion , ics , ene ion , dna cro - ray , ics , cer ion , ure ion , ort tor nes , ive ure ion
the ent of dna cro - ray ogy has ght to ata sts oad rns of ene ion sly ded in a gle ent ( dor , 123 ) .
in the ast few ths , ral ata ets ave ome cly ble on the net .
ese ata ets ent ple ges , ing a rge ber of ene ion ues per ent ( ral nds to ens of nds ) , and a ely all ber of nts ( a few zen ) .
the ata can be zed rom any ent nts .
the ure ady nds in ies of ene ers red by sed ing ues ( see e . g .
sen ,
yon et al .
23; rou , 23; lon , 23; deh , 123 ) .
ing is ten one ong the her ion of the ata .
for ple , ach ent may ond to one ent ing or not ing a cic ase ( see e . g .
lub , 123 ) .
in his ase , ing lly ups nts ith lar cal rds .
tly , sed ing has lso een ied , to the ion of ins ( own , 123 ) and to cer ion ( lub ,
his ast per on mia ion nts a ity udy of sis sed ely on ene ion ing .
in the ent per , we go her in his ion and ate hat , by ing ate - of - the - art ion hms ( ort tor nes ( ser , 23; nik , 123 ) , a all set of hly ant nes can be ted to ild ery ble cer ers .
we ake ons ith ted hes hat ere ped tly , ich her ine ( rey , 23; dis , 123 ) or ate ( jee , 23; lle , 23; ton , 123 ) ure ion ith
the ion of ant nes is of tal and cal est .
rch in ogy and ine may net rom the ion of the top ing nes to nrm ent ies in cer rch or est new ues to be red .
cal tic sts hat ure the nce of a ven ein in rum may be ved rom a all set of ant nes .
his ion lso tes new cts of the ity of ort tor ma - nes ( vms ) in dge ery and ata ing .
vms ere ady own as a ool hat ers ive rns ( yon , 123 ) .
the ent ion mon - tes hat vms are lso ery ive for ing ive res or tes ( uch as lly ant nes ) .
in a son ith ral her ene ion ods on lon cer ata ( lon , 123 ) we ate hat vms ave oth ita - ive and ive ges .
our ues orm her ods in ion nce for all ene ets ile ing nes hat ave ble nce to
ter lly ing the lem and ing ior ork ( ion 123 ) , we ent in ion 123 a new hod of ene ion ing vms .
ore ing to the tal ion ( ion 123 ) , we ibe the ata ets der udy and ide the sis of our tal hod ( ion 123 ) .
lar are is ven to ate the cal gni - nce of the lts for all ple zes .
in the ion ion ( ion 123 ) , we iew nal ity ues , ast ely our ure ion hod ith ers , and ose ble ons of the thm .
lem ion and ior ork
ion ems
in his per we ess ion ems ere the put is a tor hat we all a ern of n nts ich we all res .
we all f the n - nal ure ace .
in the ase of the lem at and , the res are ene ion nts and rns ond to nts .
we mit ves to two - ass ion ems
ene ion for cer ion
ify the two ses ith the ols ( + ) and ( ) .
a ing set of a ber of rns ( 123 , 123 , .
x ( cid : 123 ) ) ith own ass els ( 123 , 123 , .
y ( cid : 123 ) ) , yk ( 123 , 123 ) , is ven .
the ing rns are sed to ild a ion ion ( or ant ion ) d ( x ) , hat is a lar ion of an put ern x .
new rns are ied ing to the ign of the ion ion : d ( x ) > 123 x ass ( + ) d ( x ) < 123 x ass ( ) d ( x ) = 123 , ion ary .
ion ons hat are ple ted ums of the ing rns lus a ias are led ear ant ons ( see e . g .
uda , 123 ) .
in our ons :
d ( x ) = w x+ b ,
ere w is the ght tor and b is a ias lue .
a ata set is aid to be rly ble if a ear ant ion can ate
it out ror .
ace ity ion and ure ion
a own lem in ion lly , and ine ing in ral , is to nd ays to uce the ity n of the ure ace f to ome the isk of ing .
ata ing ses hen the ber n of res is rge ( in our ase nds of nes ) and the ber ( cid : 123 ) of ing rns is ely all ( in our ase a few zen nts ) .
in uch a ion , one can ily nd a ion ion hat tes the ing ata ( ven a ear ion ion ) but ill orm rly on est ata .
ing ues hat use ion ( see e . g .
nik , 123 ) oid ing of the ata to ome ent out ing ace ity ion .
uch is the ase , for nce , of ort tor nes ( vms ) ( ser , 23; nik , 23; ini , 123 ) .
yet , as we all see rom tal lts ( ion 123 ) , ven vms net rom ace ity ion .
ing on the rst few pal ons of the ata is a hod nly sed to uce ure ace ity ( see , e . g .
uda , 123 ) .
ith uch a hod , new res are ned hat are ear ons of the nal res .
one age of ion ods is hat one of the nal put res can be ded .
in his per we ate ing ues hat ate ome of the nal put res and ain a mum set of res hat eld est ion nce .
ing ues end ves to the ons hat we are ted in .
to ild tic sts , it is of cal nce to be ble to ect a all set of nes .
the ons ude ost ess and ase of ion of the nce of ted nes .
the lem of ure ion is ell own in ine ing .
for a iew of ure ion , see e . g .
( avi , 123 ) .
ven a lar ion que , it is ble to ect the est set of res ing a ven del ion ion
yon et al .
by ive ion of all ets of res .
for a iew of del ion , see e . g .
( rns , 123 ) .
ive ion is cal for rge ers of res ( in our ase nds of nes ) use of the ial ion of the ber of ets .
in the ion ion ( ion 123 ) , we all go ack to his hod hat can be sed in ion ith her hod hat rst ces the ber of res to a
ing ure ion in rge nal put ces ore ves edy hms .
ong ous ble ods ure - ing ues are rly ive .
a xed ber of top ked res may be ted for her sis or to ign a ier .
ely , a old can be set on the ing ion .
nly the res ose ion eds the old are ned .
in the rit of ral isk ion ( see e . g .
nik , 23; yon , 123 ) it is ble to use the ing to ene ted ets of res 123 123 f , and ect an mum set of res ith a del ion ion by ing a gle ter : the ber of res .
in the ing , we are ral ure - ing hms .
ure ing ith ion nts
in the est ems der udy , it is not ble to eve an ess ion ith a gle ene .
ter lts are ned hen ing the ber of nes .
cal ene ion ods ect the nes hat lly ify est the ing ata .
ese ods ude ion ods and ion tio ods .
hey ate nes hat are ess for ion ( ise ) , but hey do not eld act ene ets use nes are ant .
ver , ary nes hat lly do not ate ell the ata are sed .
ing how ell an ual ure tes to the ion ( e . g .
cer vs .
mal ) can uce a ple ure ( ene ) ing .
ous ion nts are sed as ing ria .
the ent sed in lub ( 123 ) is ned as :
wi = ( i ( + ) i ( ) ) / ( i ( + ) + i ( ) )
ere i and i are the ean and ard ion of the ene ion ues of ene i for all the nts of ass ( + ) or ass ( ) , i = 123 , .
rge ive wi ues ate ong ion ith ass ( + ) eas rge ive wi ues ate ong ion ith ass ( ) .
the nal hod of lub ( 123 ) is to ect an ual ber of nes ith ive and ith ive ion ent .
ers ( rey , 123 ) ave een ing the ute lue of wi as ing ion .
tly , in dis ( 123 ) , the ors ave een ing a ted ent ( i ( + ) i ( ) ) 123 / ( i ( + ) 123 + i ( ) 123 ) , ich is lar to ers ant ion ( uda , 123 ) .
hat zes ure ing ith ion ods is the cit ity ons hat are ade .
ach ent wi is ted ith ion out a gle ure ( ene ) and oes not ake nto unt ual ion een res .
in the ext ion , we ain in ore ils hat uch ity ons ean .
ene ion for cer ion
ing ion and ion
one ble use of ure ing is the ign of a ass tor ( or ier ) sed on a pre - ted set of res .
ach ure hat is ted ( or nti - ted ) ith the ion of est is by elf uch a ass tor , eit an ect one .
his sts a ple hod of ion sed on ted ing : the res ote lly to eir ion ent .
uch is the hod ing sed in lub ( 123 ) .
the ted ing eme lds a lar ear ant ier :
d ( x ) = w ( x )
ere w is ned in eq .
( 123 ) and = ( ( + ) + ( ) ) / 123
it is ing to ate his ier to ers ear ant .
uch a ier is
lso of the orm of eq .
( 123 ) , ith
ere s is the ( n , n ) hin ass ter rix ned as
( x ( + ) ) ( x ( + ) ) t +
( x ( ) ) ( x ( ) ) t
and ere is the ean tor ver all ing rns .
we ote by x ( + ) and x ( ) the ing ets of ass ( + ) and ( ) .
his lar orm of ers ear ant ies hat s is ble .
his is not the ase if the ber of res n is ger han the ber of les ( cid : 123 ) nce hen the ank of s is at ost ( cid : 123 ) .
the ier of lub ( 123 ) and ers ier are rly lar in his ion if the ter rix is ted by its nal nts .
his ion is act hen the ors med by the ues of one ure oss all ing rns are nal , ter ing the ass ean .
it ins ome ity if the res are ted , hat is if the ted lue of the uct of two ent ure is ero , ter ing the ass ean .
ing s by its nal nts is one way of ing it ( ing it ble ) .
but , in ice , res are lly ted and ore the nal ion is not lid .
we ave ust hed hat the ure ing nts can be sed as ier hts .
lly , the hts ing the uts of a ven ier can be sed as ure ing nts .
the uts hat are ted by the est lue nce ost the ion ion .
ore , if the ier rms ell , ose uts ith the est hts ond to the ost ive res .
his eme zes the ous one .
in lar , ere ist any hms to ain ear ant ons hat may ide a ter ure ing han ion nts .
ese hms ude ers ear ant , ust ned , and vms hat are the ect of his per .
oth ods are own in ics as ate ers , ich ans hat hey are zed ing ing to dle ple les ( or res ) sly .
the hod of lub ( 123 ) , in ast , is a ion of ple
yon et al .
ure ing by ity sis
in his ion , we how hat ing res ith the ude of the hts of a ear ant ier is a led hod .
ral ors ave ted to use the nge in ive ion hen one ure is ved as a ing ion ( avi , 123 ) .
for ion ems , the eal ive ion is the ted lue of the ror , hat is the ror ate ted on an ite ber of les .
for the ose of ing , his eal ive is ced by a ost ion j ted on ing les nly .
uch a ost ion is lly a und or an ion of the eal ive , sen for nce and ncy ons .
nce the dea to ute the nge in ost ion d j ( i ) sed by ing a ven ure or , tly , by ing its ght to ero .
the obd thm ( cun , 123 ) tes d j ( i ) by ing j in lor ies to ond der .
at the mum of j , the rst der erm can be ted ,
d j ( i ) = ( 123 / 123 )
the nge in ght dwi = wi nds to ing ure i .
the ors of the obd thm ate ing d j ( i ) ead of the ude of the hts as a ght ing ion .
for ear ant ons ose ost ion j is a tic ion of ier ( uda , 123 ) ith ost ion j = ( cid : 123 ) wi ese two ria are ent .
his is the ase for ple of the ean - red - ror ( cid : 123 ) w x y ( cid : 123 ) 123 and ear vms ( ser , 23; nik , 23; ini , 123 ) , ich ize j = ( 123 / 123 ) 123 , der ins .
his ies the use of ( wi ) 123 as a ure ing ion .
ive ure ion
a ood ure ing ion is not ily a ood ure set ing ion .
the ria d j ( i ) or ( wi ) 123 ate the ect of ing one ure at a ime on the ive ion .
hey ome ery sub - mal hen it mes to ing ral res at a ime , ich is ary to ain a all ure set .
his lem can be ome by ing the ing ive ure hat we all ive ure
ain the ier ( ize the hts wi ith ect to j ) .
ute the ing ion for all res ( d j ( i ) or ( wi ) 123 ) .
ove the ure ith est ing ion .
