new functionals for parameter ( model ) selection of support vector ma - chines are introduced based on the concepts of the span of support vec - tors and rescaling of the feature space .
it is shown that using these func - tionals , one can both predict the best choice of parameters of the model and the relative quality of performance for any value of parameter .
support vector machines ( svms ) implement the following idea : they map input vectors into a high dimensional feature space , where a maximal margin hyperplane is constructed ( 123 ) .
it was shown that when training data are separable , the error rate for svms can be
h = r123 / m 123 ,
where r is the radius of the smallest sphere containing the training data and m is the mar - gin ( the distance between the hyperplane and the closest training vector in feature space ) .
this functional estimates the vc dimension of hyperplanes separating data with a given to perform the mapping and to calculate r and m in the svm technique , one uses a positive denite kernel k ( x , x ) which species an inner product in feature space .
an example of such a kernel is the radial basis function ( rbf ) ,
) = e||xx
this kernel has a free parameter and more generally , most kernels require some param - eters to be set .
when treating noisy data with svms , another parameter , penalizing the training errors , also needs to be set .
the problem of choosing the values of these parame - ters which minimize the expectation of test error is called the model selection problem .
it was shown that the parameter of the kernel that minimizes functional ( 123 ) provides a good choice for the model : the minimum for this functional coincides with the minimum of the test error ( 123 ) .
however , the shapes of these curves can be different .
in this article we introduce rened functionals that not only specify the best choice of parameters ( both the parameter of the kernel and the parameter penalizing training error ) , but also produce curves which better reect the actual error rate .
the paper is organized as follows .
section 123 describes the basics of svms , section 123 introduces a new functional based on the concept of the span of support vectors , section 123 considers the idea of rescaling data in feature space and section 123 discusses experiments of model selection with these functionals .
123 support vector learning
we introduce some standard notation for svms; for a complete description , see ( 123 ) .
let ( xi , yi ) 123i be a set of training examples , xi rn which belong to a class labeled by yi ( 123 , 123 ) .
the decision function given by a svm is :
f ( x ) = sgn
i yik ( xi , x ) + b ! ,
where the coefcients 123
i are obtained by maximizing the following functional :
w ( ) =
iyi = 123 and 123 i c i = 123 , . . . , .
c is a constant which controls the tradeoff between the complexity of the decision function and the number of training examples misclassied .
svm are linear maximal margin clas - siers in a high - dimensional feature space where the data are mapped through a non - linear function ( x ) such that ( xi ) ( xj ) = k ( xi , xj ) .
the points xi with i > 123 are called support vectors .
we distinguish between those with 123 < i < c and those with i = c .
we call them respectively support vectors of the rst and second category .
123 prediction using the span of support vectors
the results introduced in this section are based on the leave - one - out cross - validation esti - mate .
this procedure is usually used to estimate the probability of test error of a learning
123 the leave - one - out procedure
the leave - one - out procedure consists of removing from the training data one element , con - structing the decision rule on the basis of the remaining training data and then testing the removed element .
in this fashion one tests all elements of the training data ( using dif - ferent decision rules ) .
let us denote the number of errors in the leave - one - out procedure by l ( x123 , y123 , . . . , x , y ) .
it is known ( 123 ) that the the leave - one - out procedure gives an al - most unbiased estimate of the probability of test error : the expectation of test error for the machine trained on 123 examples is equal to the expectation of 123 we now provide an analysis of the number of errors made by the leave - one - out procedure .
for this purpose , we introduce a new concept , called the span of support vectors ( 123 ) .
l ( x123 , y123 , . . . , x , y ) .
123 span of support vectors
since the results presented in this section do not depend on the feature space , we will consider without any loss of generality , linear svms , i . e .
k ( xi , xj ) = xi xj .
n ) is the solution of the optimization problem ( 123 ) .
for any xed support vector xp we dene the set p as constrained linear combinations of the support vectors of the rst category ( xi ) i123=p :
123 , . . . , 123
123 = ( 123
i = 123 , 123 123
i + yiyp123
note that i can be less than 123
we also dene the quantity sp , which we call the span of the support vector xp as the minimum distance between xp and this set ( see gure 123 )
p = d123 ( xp , p ) = min
123 = +inf
123 = - 123 123 = 123
figure 123 : three support vectors with 123 = 123 = 123 / 123
the set 123 is the semi - opened
it was shown in ( 123 ) that the set p is not empty and that sp = d ( xp , p ) dsv , where dsv is the diameter of the smallest sphere containing the support vectors .
intuitively , the smaller sp = d ( xp , p ) is , the less likely the leave - one - out procedure is to make an error on the vector xp .
formally , the following theorem holds :
theorem 123 ( 123 ) if in the leave - one - out procedure a support vector xp corresponding to 123 < p < c is recognized incorrectly , then the following inequality holds
sp max ( d , 123 / c )
this theorem implies that in the separable case ( c = ) , the number of errors made by the leave - one - out procedure is bounded as follows : l ( x123 , y123 , . . . , x , y ) p = 123 / m 123 ( 123 ) .
this is already an improvement compared to functional ( 123 ) , since sp dsv .
but depending on the geome - try of the support vectors the value of the span sp can be much less than the diameter dsv of the support vectors and can even be equal to zero .
p maxp spd = maxp spd / m 123 , because p 123
we can go further under the assumption that the set of support vectors does not change during the leave - one - out procedure , which leads us to the following theorem :
theorem 123 if the sets of support vectors of rst and second categories remain the same during the leave - one - out procedure , then for any support vector xp , the following equality
yp ( f 123 ( xp ) f p ( xp ) ) = 123 where f 123 and f p are the decision function ( 123 ) given by the svm trained respectively on the whole training set and after the point xp has been removed .
the proof of the theorem follows the one of theorem 123 in ( 123 ) .
the assumption that the set of support vectors does not change during the leave - one - out procedure is obviously not satised in most cases .
nevertheless , the proportion of points which violate this assumption is usually small compared to the number of support vec - tors .
in this case , theorem 123 provides a good approximation of the result of the leave - one procedure , as pointed out by the experiments ( see section 123 , gure 123 ) .
as already noticed in ( 123 ) , the larger p is , the more important in the decision function the support vector xp is .
thus , it is not surprising that removing a point xp causes a change in the decision function proportional to its lagrange multiplier p .
the same kind of result as theorem 123 has also been derived in ( 123 ) , where for svms without threshold , the following pk ( xp , xp ) .
the span sp takes inequality has been derived : yp ( f 123 ( xp ) f p ( xp ) ) 123 into account the geometry of the support vectors in order to get a precise notion of how important is a given point .
the previous theorem enables us to compute the number of errors made by the leave - one - out procedure :
corollary 123 under the assumption of theorem 123 , the test error prediction given by the leave - one - out procedure is
l ( x123 , y123 , . . . , x , y ) =
p ypf 123 ( xp ) )
note that points which are not support vectors are correctly classied by the leave - one - out procedure .
therefore t denes the number of errors of the leave - one - out procedure on the entire training set .
under the assumption in theorem 123 , the box constraints in the denition of p ( 123 ) can be removed .
moreover , if we consider only hyperplanes passing through the origin , the
constraintp i = 123 can also be removed .
therefore , under those assumptions , the com -
putation of the span sp is an unconstrained minimization of a quadratic form and can be done analytically .
for support vectors of the rst category , this leads to the closed form sp = 123 / ( k 123 sv ) pp , where ksv is the matrix of dot products between support vectors of the rst category .
a similar result has also been obtained in ( 123 ) .
in section 123 , we use the span - rule ( 123 ) for model selection in both separable and non -
as we already mentioned , functional ( 123 ) bounds the vc dimension of a linear margin clas - sier .
this bound is tight when the data almost lls the surface of the sphere enclosing the training data , but when the data lie on a at ellipsoid , this bound is poor since the radius of the sphere takes into account only the components with the largest deviations .
the idea we present here is to make a rescaling of our data in feature space such that the radius of the sphere stays constant but the margin increases , and then apply this bound to our rescaled data and hyperplane .
let us rst consider linear svms , i . e .
without any mapping in a high dimensional space .
the rescaling can be achieved by computing the covariance matrix of our data and rescaling according to its eigenvalues .
suppose our data are centered and let ( 123 , .
, n ) be the normalized eigenvectors of the covariance matrix of our data .
we can then compute the smallest enclosing box containing our data , centered at the origin and whose edges are parallels to ( 123 , .
this box is an approximation of the smallest enclosing ellipsoid .
the length of the edge in the direction k is k = maxi |xi k| .
the rescaling consists of the following diagonal transformation :
d : x dx =xk
k ( x k ) k .
let us consider xi = d123 xi and w = dw .
the decision function is not changed under this transformation since w xi = w xi and the data xi ll a box of side length 123
thus , in functional ( 123 ) , we replace r123 by 123 and 123 / m 123 by w 123
since we rescaled our data in a box , we actually estimated the radius of the enclosing ball using the - norm instead of the classical 123 - norm .
further theoretical works needs to be done to justify this change of
in the non - linear case , note that even if we map our data in a high dimensional feature space , they lie in the linear subspace spanned by these data .
thus , if the number of training data is not too large , we can work in this subspace of dimension at most .
for this purpose , one can use the tools of kernel pca ( 123 ) : if a is the matrix of normalized eigenvectors of the gram matrix kij = k ( xi , xj ) and ( i ) the eigenvalues , the dot product xi k is replaced transformation a and nally functional ( 123 ) becomes
by kaik and w k becomes kpi aikyii .
thus , we can still achieve the diagonal
to check these new methods , we performed two series of experiments .
one concerns the choice of , the width of the rbf kernel , on a linearly separable database , the postal database .
this dataset consists of 123 handwritten digit of size 123x123 with a test set of 123 examples .
following ( 123 ) , we split the training set in 123 subsets of 123 training examples .
our task consists of separating digit 123 to 123 from 123 to 123
error bars in gures 123a and 123 are standard deviations over the 123 trials .
in another experiment , we try to choose the optimal value of c in a noisy database , the breast - cancer database123
the dataset has been split randomly 123 times into a training set containing 123 examples and a test set containing 123 examples .
section 123 describes experiments of model selection using the span - rule ( 123 ) , both in the separable case and in the non - separable one , while section 123 shows vc bounds for model selection in the separable case both with and without rescaling .
123 model selection using the span - rule
in this section , we use the prediction of test error derived from the span - rule ( 123 ) for model selection .
figure 123a shows the test error and the prediction given by the span for differ - ent values of the width of the rbf kernel on the postal database .
figure 123b plots the same functions for different values of c on the breast - cancer database .
we can see that the method predicts the correct value of the minimum .
moreover , the prediction is very accurate and the curves are almost identical .
123available from http : / / horn . first . gmd . de / raetsch / data / breast - cancer
( a ) choice of in the postal database
( b ) choice of c in the breast - cancer database
figure 123 : test error and its prediction using the span - rule ( 123 ) .
the computation of the span - rule ( 123 ) involves computing the span sp ( 123 ) for every support vector .
note , however , that we are interested in the inequality s 123 than the exact value of the span sp .
thus , while minimizing sp = d ( xp , p ) , if we nd a p , we can stop the minimization because point x p such that d ( xp , x ) 123 ypf ( xp ) / 123 this point will be correctly classied by the leave - one - out procedure .
p ypf ( xp ) / 123
figure 123 compares the time required to ( a ) train the svm on the postal database , ( b ) com - pute the estimate of the leave - one - out procedure given by the span - rule ( 123 ) and ( c ) compute exactly the leave - one - out procedure .
in order to have a fair comparison , we optimized the computation of the leave - one - out procedure in the following way : for every support vector xp , we take as starting point for the minimization ( 123 ) involved to compute f p ( the decision function after having removed the point xp ) , the solution given by f 123 on the whole training set .
the reason is that f 123 and f p are usually close .
the results show that the time required to compute the span is not prohibitive and is very attractive compared to the leave - one - out procedure .
figure 123 : comparison of time required for svm training , computation of span and leave - one - out on the postal database
123 vc dimension with rescaling
in this section , we perform model selection on the postal database using functional ( 123 ) and its rescaled version .
figure 123a shows the values of the classical bound r123 / m 123 for different values of .
this bound predicts the correct value for the minimum , but does not reect the
actual test error .
this is easily understandable since for large values of , the data in input space tend to be mapped in a very at ellipsoid in feature space , a fact which is not taken into account ( 123 ) .
figure 123b shows that by performing a rescaling of our data , we manage to have a much tighter bound and this curve reects the actual test error , given in gure 123a .
( a ) without rescaling
vc dimension with rescaling
( b ) with rescaling
figure 123 : bound on the vc dimension for different values of on the postal database .
the shape of the curve with rescaling is very similar to the test error on gure 123
in this paper , we introduced two new techniques of model selection for svms .
one is based on the span , the other is based on rescaling of the data in feature space .
we demonstrated that using these techniques , one can both predict optimal values for the parameters of the model and evaluate relative performances for different values of the parameters .
these functionals can also lead to new learning techniques as they establish that generalization ability is not only due to margin .
the authors would like to thank jason weston and patrick haffner for helpfull discussions
