we int a tec for ext the cla met of lin dis ana to dat set whe the pre var are cur or fun .
thi pro , whi we cal fun lin dis ana ( fld ) , is par use whe onl fra of the cur are obs .
all the tec ass wit lda can be ext for use wit fld .
in par fld can be use to pro cla on new ( tes ) cur , giv an est of the dis fun bet cla , and pro a one or two dim pic rep of a set of cur .
we als ext thi pro to pro gen of qua and reg dis ana .
som key wor : cla fil fun dat lin dis ana low dim rep - tio red ran reg dis ana spa cur .
lin dis ana ( lda ) is a pop pro whi dat bac as far as fis ( 123 ) .
let x be a q - dim vec rep an obs fro one of sev pos cla .
lin dis ana can be use to cla x if the cla is unk .
alt , it can be use to cha the way tha cla dif via a dis fun .
the are sev dif way of des lda .
one is usi pro mod .
sup tha the ith cla has den fi x i .
the bay for tel us tha
and pri pro p
j f j x
it is rel sim to sho tha the rul tha cla to the lar con pro wil mak the sma exp num of mis .
thi is kno as the bay rul or cla .
if we fur ass tha the ith cla has a gau dis wit mea m i and cov s the it can be sho tha cla to the max con pro is equ to cla to
fig 123 : dat mea of spi bon min den ( g fem and the gre lin mal .
cm1 ) for 123 ind .
the bla lin rep
whe li is the dis fun
not tha li is a lin fun of x .
whe the max lik est for m at the lin dis ana pro .
i and s are use we arr
123 lda on fun dat
lda can be imp on dat of any nit dim but can be dir app to inn - dim dat suc as fun or cur .
pro the ent cur has bee obs , thi can be ove by dis - cre the tim int .
how , thi gen res in hig cor hig - dim dat whi mak the wit - cla cov mat dif to est .
the are two com sol to thi pro - lem .
the rst is to use som for of reg , suc as add a dia mat to the cov mat .
see for exa dip ( 123 ) , dip ( 123 ) , cam ( 123 ) , fri ( 123 ) and has et al .
( 123 ) .
we cal thi the reg met .
the sec is to cho a nit - dim bas , f , and nd the bes pro of eac cur ont thi bas .
the res bas coe can the be use as a nit - dim rep mak it pos to use lda , or any oth pro , on the bas coe .
we cal thi the lte met .
unf , it is oft the cas tha onl a fra of eac cur has bee obs .
con , for ex - amp , the dat ill in fig 123
the dat con of mea of spi bon min den for 123 ind tak at var age , a sub of the dat pre in bac et al .
( 123 ) .
eve tho , in agg , the are 123 obs mea ove a per of alm two dec , we onl hav 123 - 123 mea for eac ind , typ mea ove no mor tha a cou of yea .
in thi sit
bot of the com app to dis ana can bre dow .
the reg met is not fea bec dis wou res in a lar num of mis obs in eac dim .
the lte met als has sev pot pro .
the rst is tha an ass is mad of a com cov mat for eac cur bas coe .
how , if the cur are mea at dif tim poi , as is the cas in the gro cur dat of fig 123 , the coe wil all hav dif cov .
one wou ide lik to put mor wei on acc bas coe but the lte met doe not all suc an app .
a sec pro is tha wit ext spa dat set som of the bas coe - cie may hav inn var , mak it imp to est the ent cur .
for exa , wit the spi bon den dat , eac ind cur has so few obs tha it is not pos to t any rea - son bas .
in thi cas the met fai and the is no way to pro .
for the spa dat con in thi pap the are ser pro .
123 gen fun mod
the reg and lte app can bot be vie as met for tti the fol gen fun mod .
let g t be the cur of an ind ran dra fro the ith cla .
ass tha , if
is in cla i , it is dis as a gau pro wit
one typ nev obs an ind ove the ent cur rat one sam the cur wit err at dis tim poi t12 tn .
we ass tha the mea err are unc wit mea zer and con var s 123
let y be the vec of obs of g t
cov g t
at tim t12
i as giv in ( 123 ) and s
man fun - the bay rul for cla thi cur is giv by ( 123 ) wit m tio cla pro are sim met for tti thi mod , i . e .
est m and the usi the cla rul giv by ( 123 ) .
for exa , the reg app att to es - by pro sam est alo a ne lat of tim poi .
alt , the lte met for est by mod m usi bas fun .
how , we saw in sec 123 tha , whe con wit spa dat set , bot met can pro poo ts to the mod .
123 the fld app
in thi pap we pre an alt met for tti the fun mod of 123 , whi cop wel wit spa dat .
we cal thi met fun lin dis ana ( fld ) .
the pro use a spl cur plu ran err to mod obs fro eac ind .
the spl is par usi a bas fun mul by a q - dim coe vec .
thi eff tra all the dat int a sin q - dim spa .
fin , the coe vec is mod usi a gau dis wit com cov mat for all cla , in ana wit lda .
the obs cur can the be poo to
fig 123 : ( a ) a sim dat set of 123 cur fro 123 dif cla .
( b ) the tra cur aft rem the ran com .
est the cov and mea for eac cla .
thi mak it pos to for acc est for eac ind cur bas on onl a few obs .
thi has sev adv ove the reg and lte met .
fir , as it doe not rel on for ind est for eac cur , it can be use on spa dat set suc as the gro cur dat .
sec , by pro an est for the cov ker it is pos to est the var of the bas coe for eac cur and aut put mor wei on the mor acc coe .
as a sim ill of the eff of fld in sep cur fro dif cla con fig 123 ( a ) .
thi is a plo of cur fro a sim dat set .
cla 123 cur are plo as bla lin and cla 123 as gre .
eac cla has a dif mea fun and the cur are gen by com the cla mea wit a ran cur plu ran nor noi .
fro vis ins alo the is no obv sep bet cla .
how , fig 123 ( b ) pro a plo of the tra cur aft usi the fld pro to rem the ran com fro eac cur .
now the sep is cle so whe the sam pro is app to a new cur it wil cle be ide whi gro it fal int and it can be cla wit hig acc .
the lev of acc dep on the sig to noi rat , whi is hig in thi cas .
how , the key poi is tha the str sig is not app in fig 123 ( a ) and onl eme as a res of usi the fld pro .
in the cla two - cla lda set thi tra amo to pro obs ont the lin seg spa by the mea .
the fld mod and cla pro are pre in sec 123 and 123
one of the rea for the pop of lda is tha it can be use for a var of tas .
it can be use to pro hig - dim dat int a low dim and hen pro a gra rep .
fur it can als be use for cla and to pro a dis fun to ide are of dis bet cla .
in sec 123 we sho how fld can be use to gen eac of the too to fun dat .
sec 123 ex - pla how the sta fld fra can be ext to inc ran - red and non - ide wit - cla cov mat .
the lat of the ext pro a fun gen of qua
123 the fld mod
in thi sec we dev the fld mod by gen the lda mod giv in 123 to han fun
123 a gen to fun dat let gi j t cor vec of obs and mea err at tim ti j12
be the tru val at tim t for the jth ind or cur fro the ith cla .
let yi j and e
ti jni j .
the we beg wit
i j be the
whe k is the num of cla and mi is the num of ind in the ith cla .
the mea err are ass to hav mea zer , con var s 123 and be unc wit eac oth and gi j .
the ass imp mea tha we are ass tha the tim poi tha we hav fai to obs are mis at ran .
as we onl hav a nit amo of dat we nee to pla som res on gi j in ord to t thi mod .
a com app to mod fun dat is to rep the fun usi a exi bas ( ram and sil 123 , cha 123 ) .
we cho to use nat cub spl fun bec of the des mat pro and eas imp ( de boo , 123 gre and sil ,
gi j t
is a spl bas wit dim q and h
whe s t lea to a mor res mod ,
i j is a q - dim vec of spl coe
not tha the pro of mod yi j has red to one of mod h i j is a q - dim var , so a nat app is to mod it usi the gau dis ass for the sta lda
how , h
s ti j12
s ti jni j
i j n 123
if we ass tha the err ter are als nor dis thi giv
123 ran red lda
i j n 123
i j n 123
a red - ran ver of lda is oft per by tra or pro the var int a low - dim sub and cla in thi sub .
the sub is cho to max the bet - cla cov rel to the wit - cla cov .
the tra var are cal lin dis - cri or can var .
and ( 123 ) and has and tib ( 123 ) out an alt pro usi the con
i are res q - and h - dim vec , and l
whe l 123 and a set of aut sho tha usi max lik to t the gau lda mod of 123 wit the add con ( 123 ) and cla to the max pos pro is ide to the cla fro the red ran lda pro .
h mat , h
is a q
the sam ran con can be pla on the mea in ( 123 ) .
thi giv the nal for of the fld mod ,
i j n 123
i j n 123
in whi l 123 , l tio on l
and the a
i are con if no con is imp .
the we pla the fol res -
l t sts
sg st and s is the bas mat eva ove a ne lat of poi .
the con pro a for of nor for the lin dis .
mor det wil be giv in the fol sec .
in pra the lat sho inc , at lea , all tim poi in the dat set .
for exa the spi bon den 123 yea so the lat cov the sam dat was mea in 123 per .
thi mod is ide to the gen fun mod of 123 wit
123 of a yea inc fro age 123
123 to 123
123 cla cur
tg s t
in thi sec we rst det a max lik pro for tti ( 123 ) and the a met for for cla by com ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) to for an est of the bay cla .
123 fit the mod fit the fld mod inv est l 123
g and s 123
not tha ( 123 ) imp
yi j n si j
si jg st
sin obs fro dif ind are ass to be ind , the joi dis of the obs cur is
123 yi j
a nat app to tti the mod is to max ( 123 ) ove l 123 max thi lik is a dif non - con opt pro .
if the g
g and s 123
unf , dir i j had bee obs , how -
eve , the joi lik of yi j and g
i j wou sim to
123 123 yi j
123 ni j
t yi j
max thi lik is muc les com , and sug tre the g i j as mis dat and imp - men the em alg ( dem et al . , 123 lai and war , 123 ) .
the em alg inv al - ter cal the exp val of the mis dat g i j and max the joi lik .
the e ste is per usi the equ
i jsi j
i j yi j
si jl 123
whi the m ste inv max
t yi j
ni j log
hol g i j xed .
fur det can be obt fro the web sit www - rcf . usc . edu / gar .
as wit all
em alg the lik wil inc at eac ite but it is pos to rea a loc rat tha glo max .
thi can be a pro for ver spa dat set suc as the bon min den dat .
how , the pro is gen eli by enf a ran con on g as dis in 123 .
oth mod sel que ari in pra , suc as the cho of q , the dim of the spl bas .
the are sev pos pro tha hav bee app to mod of thi typ .
one is to cal the cro - val lik for var dim and cho the mod cor to the max ( jam et al . , 123 ) .
aic and bic are two oth , les com exp , pro tha hav als pro suc on thi sor of dat ( ric and wu , 123 ) .
in pra the nal cla app to be rel rob to any rea cho of dim but thi is an are of ong res .
not tha und the sta red - ran lda mod ,
hen , usi bay for , the pro of cla i giv x is pro to
tha cla an obs x usi red - ran lda is ide to cla to
not tha the sec lin fol fro the fac tha l ts
thi mea
it can be sho tha
x and a
i are equ to the lin dis of x and m
i tha lda pro , up to an
the sam app is use for fld .
by com ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) we see tha the pos pro tha
a cur y was gen fro cla i is pro to
whe sy is the spl bas mat for y and
so y wil be cla to
not , how , tha if one let
hen ( 123 ) is equ to
l t sy
123 l t sy
jus as wit sta lda , the ( 123 ) cor to cla to the cla who mea is clo to our tes poi in the red y .
not als tha if y has bee mea spa whe dis is mea usi the inv cov of
i are , up to an add con , the lin dis of y and m
y and a
l t sy
ove the ent tim per , so tha sy
and ( 123 ) red to
123 app of fld
in thi sec we sho how thr of the mos imp too tha lda pro , nam , low dim rep , dis fun and cla , can be rep usi fld .
123 low dim rep of cur
one of the rea for the pop of lda is tha it pro the abi to vie hig - dim dat by pro it ont a low - dim spa .
thi all one to vis det the dis bet
fig 123 : ( a ) lin dis for eac cur of the spi bon den dat , plo aga the ave age peo wer mea at .
( b ) est of the sta err of the lin dis for eac cur plo aga the ave age .
the is a cle tre of inc var wit age .
cla .
as men in 123 , in a sta nit - dim set the lin dis of x equ
up to an add con .
as cov dis bet dif obs is euc and can be eas cal by vis ins .
i , the tra var all hav ide cov , so the
thi pro a nat app to pro fun dat int a low - dim spa .
in the fld y is the lin dis for y and tha if y i .
how , if onl fra of the cur hav bee
y , giv in ( 123 ) .
rec tha
mod the ana of has bee obs ove the ent int cov
l t sy
thi mak dir com of poi mor dif bec the cov str may no lon be dia and , in gen , cur mea at dif tim poi wil hav dif cov .
how , 123 , so the lin dis is a sca , the onl eff thi has is tha eac poi has a dif sta err .
fig 123 - 123 pro exa of thi .
fig 123 ( a ) sho lin dis for eac cur fro the gro cur dat of fig 123 , plo ver the ave age for obs fro eac ind .
for a two - cla sit , suc as thi , the plo als pro a sim cla rul cur wit pos lin dis are cla as mal and cur wit neg lin dis as fem .
the plo rev som int pro of the dat .
cur mea at age bel eig yea are rel wel - sep whi ind mea at old age hav lit dis sep .
thi tre is als app upo clo exa of the ori cur .
the two sol ver lin eit sid of zer giv the tte val for the a is .
the rep the cla cen in the tra spa .
the clo pro to eac oth rel to the var of the lin dis ind lit ove sep bet cla .
how , rec tha , as a res
fig 123 : ( a ) plo of the lin dis for eac cur on the spi bon den dat ver the est sta err .
( b ) a lin dis plo for a sim dat set .
it sho a fai cle dif bet the cla but als a sig ove .
of ( 123 ) , the lin dis of y wil hav a sta err of one if the cur is mea ove the ent int .
in fac the sep bet the cen is abo 123 123 sta dev .
thi imp tha the con bet gen is a res of the sma num of obs per ind , whi cau the sta err to inc dra .
a cle sep cou be ach wit mor obs .
fig 123 ( b ) giv the sta err for eac lin dis ver ave age of obs .
a cur wit mea ove the ent tim per wou hav sta err 123 , so thi plo giv an ind of the amo of inf los by onl obs the cur at a lim num of tim poi .
the sta err ran fro ove ten to eig , ind tha a gre dea of acc has bee sac .
the inc var als exp the poo sep at old age whe the sta err are lar rel to the dis bet the cla cen .
onc the mod has bee t , the sta err can be cal for a cur obs at an arb set of tim poi .
thi pro a met for dec on an opt des in ter of loc a nit num of obs for an ind to min the sta err .
fig 123 giv two plo whi com the lin dis and the sta err tog .
thi giv an eas met for dec on the rel of a giv obs .
for exa poi wit hig sta err sho be tre wit cau .
we cal the lin dis plo .
the lef and rig ver dot lin ind the cla cen whi the cen lin are the cla dis .
fig 123 ( a ) sho tha the poi wit rel low sta err hav far bet sep tha tho wit a lar sta err .
fig 123 ( b ) pro a sim plo for a sim dat set con of 123 cur mea at the sam set of tim poi as tha of the dat set ill in fig 123
not tha eve tho eac cur has bee mea at fai eve spa poi thr the tim int the sta err sti ran up to ten .
the two cla are rel wel sep but the is sti som cle ove .
the dis bet the cla cen is 123 sta dev , ind tha one cou ach nea per sep by sam the cur at a wid ran of tim poi .
fig 123 and 123 are fur lin dis plo .
the wer pro by usi eth as the cla
fig 123 : lin dis for the spi bon den dat usi eth as the cla var .
( a ) the dot lin rep , fro lef to rig , cla cen for bla , his , whi , and asi .
not tha bla and asi are fai wel sep whi his and whi are not .
( b ) the sol lin rep dec bou for cla a giv cur .
var on a sub of the gro cur dat , all fem .
a plo of the gro cur for eac eth ( not sho ) ind tha the may be no cle sep bet cla .
thi is bor out by fig 123 ( a ) whi giv a plo of lin dis ver ave age .
the is sig ove bet the cla .
how , it is sti pos to gai som inf .
the fou ver dot lin rep the cla cen - tro for , fro lef to rig , bla , his , whi and asi .
it is cle tha the is ver lit sep bet his and whi whi bla and asi are rel wel sep .
thi is hig by fig 123 whi sho lin dis and a plo of the raw dat for bla and asi alo .
the dif - enc are now cle .
fig 123 ( b ) is ide to 123 ( a ) exc tha the thr dis bou are plo in pla of the cla cen .
the dis bou div the spa int fou reg .
poi in the lef reg are cla as bla , the nex as his , fol by whi and nal asi .
the abi of lda to per cla is of equ imp to its abi to exp dis bet cla .
in 123 we sho tha to cla a cur usi fld one nee onl pro ( 123 ) and cla usi ( 123 ) .
whe all cla hav equ wei and y is one dim thi cla rul sim to
whi cla is not the pri goa on the spi bon den dat , we app ( 123 ) to it to ill the pro .
whe usi gen as the cla var the ove tra err rat com out at 123 how , the rat inc sub to 123 123 for age und 123
thi con to our exp fro fig 123 ( a ) whi sho muc bet dis for low
123 for age ove 123 and dec to 123
fig 123 : ( a ) lin dis for bla and asi .
whi the is sti som ove the sep is far cle .
the ver lin giv the cla bou .
( b ) a plo of the raw dat for bla and asi .
not tha bla ten to hav a hig bon den .
the two sol lin rep the mea for bla and asi whi the dot lin are for his and whi .
tab 123 giv the con mat whe eth is use as the cla var .
it sho the tru eth and the cor cla for eac of the 123 ind .
for exa , 123 of the 123 asi wer cla as asi whi 123 of the 123 his wer cla as bla .
whi the ove tra err rat is 123 123 , a lar fra of the err are amo his and whi , whi asi and bla are rel wel cla .
whe asi and bla are con alo the err rat dro to 123 .
in tab 123 we pre the res fro a sim stu whe the fld pro is com wit two oth cla .
the rst is the lte met of 123 .
rec tha the lte met con of tti a exi bas , in thi cas cub spl , to eac cur and the cla by usi lda on the bas coe .
the lte met pro a sim com to fld .
the sec is the bay cla whi is opt if the tru dis of the cla is kno .
it pro the bes cas err rat
tab 123 : con mat of cla for the fou eth .
the num in par giv the per of eac eth rec the cor cla .
asi and bla hav rel lit con whi his and whi hav a gre dea .
tab 123 : tes err rat fro the sim stu for var dif fra of mis dat .
the num in par ind est sta err for the err rat .
stu con of a thr - cla pro .
for eac cla , 123 cur wer gen acc to the fld mod ( 123 ) and sam on a ne gri of 123 equ - spa poi .
the , for eac cur , a ran sub , 123 - 123 , of the obs , wer rem to rep cur fra .
mul dat set wer cre and the fld and lte pro wer app to eac .
err rat wer the cal on a sep , tes set , of 123 cur .
fur the bay err rat , whi is the low pos , was als cal on thi tes set .
ove the 123 tim poi the ave dev of mea cur bet cla 123 and 123 and 123 whi it was twi thi num bet cla 123 and 123
the sta bet cla 123 and 123 was 123 dev of the err ter was s 123
fin the ave sta dev ove the 123 tim poi of the ran cur sg was app 123 123
the rst gur giv a gui as to the sig whi the las two ind the noi .
tab 123 pro a sum of the tes err rat .
as one wou exp , all thr set of err rat inc wit the fra of mis dat .
of far mor int is the sim bet the fld and bay err rat .
eve wit 123 of the dat rem the dif is onl 123 123 .
wit les tha 123 of the dat rem the lte and fld met giv com res .
how , the lte met det rap unt at 123 its err rat is clo to tha of the nai cla whi ran ass a cla lab bas on the pri pro for eac cla .
not tha at 123 the lte met cou not eve be app to sev of the sim dat set bec ind cur cou not be tte .
123 cla dis fun
in a sta two - cla lda set the dis fun is den as
tl t sts
det the cla of a poi .
in the fld set m
is the wit gro cov mat .
thi fun giv the wei put on eac dim in so the fun ana is
sg st and s is the spl bas mat eva on a ne gri of poi ove the ent tim per .
equ ( 123 ) can be use to pro a dis fun for any set of dat .
fig 123 pro exa fro the gro cur dat .
fig 123 ( a ) giv the dis fun usi gen as the cla var .
the is a str neg pea bef age 123 and a lar pos pea aft thi ind a pha shi bet gen and exp why the is far bet sep for the ear age .
fig 123 ( b ) giv a sim plo usi eth as the cla var .
aga mos of the dis app to be in the ear yea .
a com of dis fun pro fro the sim stu of 123 , usi bot the fld and lte app , is giv in fig 123
the pop dis fun is sho in bla whi
fig 123 : dis fun for the gro cur dat of fig 123
( a ) usi gen as the cla var .
the is a str ind of pha shi .
( b ) usi eth as the cla var .
its est are in gre .
fig 123 ( a ) and ( b ) pre res fro the stu wit 123 of the dat rem whi fig 123 ( c ) and ( d ) pre res wit 123 rem .
for eac , the top plo sho the dis fun fro 123 dif sim usi fld , whi the bot plo giv the cor gra for the lte app .
as add or mul the dis fun by a con lea the cla - sic unc , the est hav bee tra to pro the lea squ t to the pop dis fun .
it is cle tha in bot cas the fld app is pro mor acc dis - ina fun , ree in the dec err rat of tab 123
und the sta fld mod
cov yi j
si jg st
in thi sec we con a num of pos ext to thi mod by exp dif ass for g and hen the cov mat of yi j .
123 red ran cov mat und ( 123 ) , no res are pla on the str of g .
in pra , the lik fun for dat set suc as the spi bon den dat has a lar num of loc max whi mak thi mod dif to t .
as a res , for eve mod q , one can pro a hig var t to the dat .
jam et al .
( 123 ) sho tha suc pro can be red by enf a ran con on g .
a ran p con is equ to
q dq t and
cov yi j
si jq dq tst
fld dis fun
fld dis fun
fil dis fun
fil dis fun
fig 123 : res fro two dif set of sim .
plo ( a ) and ( b ) sho the tru dis fun ( bla lin ) and est ( gre lin ) fro 123 dif sim usi fld ( a ) and lte ( b ) met wit 123 of eac cur uno .
plo ( c ) and ( d ) sho the equ res wit 123 of eac cur uno .
is a q
q ) mat and d is a dia mat .
jam et al .
( 123 ) sug sev met for cho the ran and con tha the opt ran for
the res fro sec 123 wer pro usi suc a red ran mod wit p
the dat is p bec thi gav a far bet t to the dat .
123 fun qua dis ana the fld pro , in ana wit lda , mak an ass of a com cov mat , g i j vec fro eac cla .
thi can res in a con red in var for cla wit a sma sam siz .
how , the ass can cau a con inc in bia if the cov are not com .
in a sta set qua dis ana ( qda ) pro a les res pro by all dif cov mat .
in a sim man the fld mod of 123 can be gen by rem the ass of a com cov ter , g
thi giv the cov str
cov yi j
i is the cov mat for cla i .
the pos pro is now pro to
by tti thi mod and cla to arg min di y qua dis ana ( fqd ) is pro .
a gen of qda , whi we cal fun
123 fun reg dis ana
it is wel kno tha lda can per bad if the ass of a com wit - cla cov mat is vio , whi qda gen req a lar sam siz ( wal and kro , 123 ) .
a sma sam siz cau a cov mat to be pro whi is clo to sin and hen exc wei is pla on the dir cor to sma eig .
reg has bee hig suc in thi sor of poo - pos inv pro ( tit ( 123 ) , osu ( 123 ) ) .
fri ( 123 ) sug the fol reg app .
let si ni be the wit cla sam cov mat for cla i and let ni is use for qda .
a com bet the two app can be ach by set the wit - cla cov mat
n is the poo cov mat whi is use for lda whi si
the s
w12 s and ni w12
a sec lev of reg , nam shr tow the ide mat , is pro thr
whe q is the dim of the spa .
g is use as the wit - cla cov mat for the ith cla .
fri cal thi app reg dis ana ( rda ) .
rda has bee sho to out bot lda and qda in a lar var of sit .
a gen to fun reg dis ana ( frd ) can be ach usi the fol -
low cov str
cov yi j
si j g
is den as in ( 123 ) .
the cho of w12 and w12 is mad usi cro - val .
app cro - val to the frd mod is pot com exp .
how , in the rda set , an alg upd all for a sig fas imp ( fri , 123 ) .
thi upd can be use in the fld set by tti the fqd mod , tre the res g i js as q dim dat and tti rda to est w12 and w12 , and nal tti the frd mod wit w12 and w12 xed .
frd con bot fld and fqd as sub mod .
by set bot w12 and w12 equ to zer the fqd 123 pro the fld mod .
fur , by set 123 a fun gen of the nea - mea cla is pro whe an obs is
123 and w12
mod is pro .
whi set w12
ass to the clo cla mea , in euc dis .
we hav pre a met , whi we cal fun lin dis ana ( fld ) , for gen - ing lin dis ana to fun dat .
fld pos all the usu lda too , inc a low - dim gra sum of the dat , and cla of new cur .
whe the fun dat hav bee mea ove a lar num of tim poi the pro pro sim res to the lte met int in sec 123 .
how , whe onl fra of the fun are ava the fld app can sti pro fav out whi the lte met fai com .
fld can als be gen in a num of way .
a red ran ver can be imp whe the dat are ver spa and a qua ver can be use whe an ass of a com cov mat is ina .
a reg ver , whi is a com bet fld and fqd , is als ava .
ano pos gen , whi we hav not con , is to mod het var and aut in the err ter .
thi may wel imp the cla acc of the met pro eno tim poi hav bee obs per cur to pro acc est .
unf , all s 123 to var wou mak it imp to enf the con ,
l t sts
in tur ( 123 ) all gur suc as whi ens tha , if a cur is mea at all tim poi , cov 123 ( b ) to pro a mea of the amo of inf los thr mis obs .
if s 123 was all to var thi int wou no lon be fea .
the aut wou lik to tha the edi and ref for man con sug .
tre has was par sup by gra fro the nat sci fou and the nat ins of hea .
