we uce a que for ing the cal hod of ear ant sis to ata ets ere the tor les are ves or ons .
his ure , ich we all nal ear ant sis ( lda ) , is rly ful hen nly nts of the ves are ved .
all the ues ted ith lda can be ded for use ith lda .
in lar lda can be sed to uce ons on new ( est ) ves , ive an ate of the ant ion een ses , and ide a one or two nal ial ion of a set of ves .
we lso end his ure to ide ons of tic and zed ant sis .
ome key rds : on; ng; nal ta; ear ant is; low nal nta - on; ced nk; zed ant is; rse ves .
ear ant sis ( lda ) is a lar ure ich tes ack as far as her ( 123 ) .
let x be a q - nal tor ing an ion rom one of ral ble ses .
ear ant sis can be sed to ify x if the ass is own .
ely , it can be sed to ize the way hat ses fer via a ant ion .
ere are ral ent ays of ing lda .
one is ing ity els .
ose hat the ith ass has ity fi x i .
hen yes ula lls us hat
and ior ity p
j f j x
it is ely ple to how hat the ule hat ies to the est nal ity ill ake the est ted ber of ons .
his is own as the yes ule or ier .
if we her ume hat the ith ass has a ian ion ith ean m i and nce s hen it can be own hat ing to the mum nal ity is ent to ing to
ure 123 : ata nts of nal one ral ity ( g les and the rey nes les .
123 ) for 123 als .
the ack nes ent
ere li is the ant ion
ote hat li is a ear ion of x .
hen the mum ood tes for m at the ear ant sis ure .
i and s are sed we ive
123 lda on nal ata
lda can be ted on ata of any ite ion but not be tly ied to ite - nal ata uch as ons or ves .
ded the ire rve has een ved , his can be ome by dis - ing the ime val .
ver , his lly lts in hly ted igh - nal ata ich kes the hin - ass nce rix ult to ate .
ere are two mon ons to his rob - lem .
the rst is to use ome orm of ion , uch as ing a nal rix to the nce rix .
see for ple llo ( 123 ) , llo ( 123 ) , ell ( 123 ) , man ( 123 ) and tie et al .
( 123 ) .
we all his the ion hod .
the ond is to ose a ite - nal sis , f , and nd the est ion of ach rve nto his sis .
the ing sis nts can hen be sed as a ite - nal ion ing it ble to use lda , or any her ure , on the sis nts .
we all his the ing hod .
ely , it is ten the ase hat nly a ent of ach rve has een ved .
der , for ex - ple , the ata ted in ure 123
ese ata ist of nts of nal one ral ity for 123 als ken at ous ges , a set of the ata ted in ach et al .
( 123 ) .
ven ugh , in ate , ere are 123 ons red ver a iod of ost two des , we nly ave 123 - 123 nts for ach ual , lly red ver no ore han a ple of ars .
in his ion
oth of the mon hes to ant sis can eak own .
the ion hod is not ble use ing uld ult in a rge ber of ing ons in ach ion .
the ing hod lso has ral ial ems .
the rst is hat an ion is ade of a mon nce rix for ach ves sis nts .
ver , if the ves are red at ent ime nts , as is the ase in the wth rve ata of ure 123 , the nts ill all ave ent ces .
one uld lly ike to put ore ght on ate sis nts but the ing hod oes not low uch an ach .
a ond lem is hat ith ely rse ata ets ome of the sis oef - nts may ave ite nce , ing it ble to ate the ire rve .
for ple , ith the nal one ity ata , ach ual rve has so few ons hat it is not ble to t any rea - ble sis .
in his ase the hod ils and ere is no way to eed .
for the rse ata red in his per ese are ous ems .
123 ral nal del
the ion and ing hes can oth be wed as ods for ing the ing ral nal del .
let g t be the rve of an ual mly awn rom the ith ass .
ume hat , if
is in ass i , it is ted as a ian ess ith
one lly ver ves an ual ver the ire ve; her one les the rve ith ror at nct ime nts 123 tn .
we ume hat the ent ors are ted ith ean ero and ant nce s 123
let y be the tor of ons of g t
cov g t
at mes 123
i as ven in ( 123 ) and s
any unc - the yes ule for ing his rve is ven by ( 123 ) ith m nal ion res are ply ods for ing his del , i . e .
ing m and hen ing the ion ule ven by ( 123 ) .
for ple , the ion ach pts to es - by ing ple tes ong a ne ice of ime nts .
ely , the ing hod rms tes by ing m ing sis ons .
ver , we saw in ion 123 hat , hen ted ith rse ata ets , oth ods can uce oor ts to the del .
123 the lda ach
in his per we ent an ive hod for ing the nal del of 123 , ich pes ell ith rse ata .
we all his hod nal ear ant sis ( lda ) .
the ure ses a ine rve lus dom ror to del ons rom ach ual .
the ine is zed ing a sis ion ied by a q - nal ent tor .
his ely rms all the ata nto a gle q - nal ace .
lly , the ent tor is led ing a ian ion ith mon nce rix for all ses , in ogy ith lda .
the ved ves can hen be led to
ure 123 : ( a ) a ted ata set of 123 ves rom 123 ent ses .
( b ) the med ves ter ing the dom nts .
ate the nce and ean for ach ass .
his kes it ble to orm ate tes for ach ual rve sed on nly a few ons .
his has ral ges ver the ion and ing ods .
rst , as it oes not ely on ing ual tes for ach rve , it can be sed on rse ata ets uch as the wth rve ata .
ond , by ing an ate for the nce nel it is ble to ate the nce of the sis ent for ach rve and lly put ore ght on the ore ate nts .
as a ple ion of the ess of lda in ing ves rom ent ses der ure 123 ( a ) .
his is a lot of ves rom a ted ata set .
ass 123 ves are ted as ack nes and ass 123 as rey .
ach ass has a ent ean ion and the ves are ted by ing the ass ean ith a dom rve lus dom mal ise .
rom ual ion one ere is no ous ion een ses .
ver , ure 123 ( b ) des a lot of the med ves ter ing the lda ure to ove the dom ent rom ach rve .
now the ion is ear so hen the ame ure is ied to a new rve it ill rly be ble ich oup it lls nto and it can be ied ith igh acy .
the vel of acy nds on the nal to ise tio , ich is igh in his ase .
ver , the key int is hat the ong nal is not ent in ure 123 ( a ) and nly ges as a ult of ing the lda ure .
in the cal two - ass lda ing his ion nts to ing ons nto the ine ent ned by the ans .
the lda del and ion ure are ted in ons 123 and 123
one of the ons for the ity of lda is hat it can be sed for a ety of sks .
it can be sed to ect igh - nal ata nto a low ion and nce uce a cal ion .
ore it can lso be sed for ion and to uce a ant ion to ify eas of ion een ses .
in ion 123 we how how lda can be sed to ize ach of ese ols to nal ata .
ion 123 ex - ins how the ard lda ork can be ded to ude ank - ced and non - cal hin - ass nce ces .
the ter of ese ons des a nal ion of tic
123 the lda del
in his ion we lop the lda del by ing the lda del ven in 123 to dle nal
123 a ion to nal ata let gi j t ing ors of ons and ent ors at mes ti 123
be the rue lue at ime t for the jth ual or rve rom the ith ass .
let yi j and e
ti jni j .
hen we gin ith
i j be the
ere k is the ber of ses and mi is the ber of als in the ith ass .
the ent ors are med to ave ean ero , ant nce s 123 and be ted ith ach her and gi j .
ese ons tly ean hat we are ing hat the ime nts hat we ave led to rve are ing at dom .
as we nly ave a ite unt of ata we eed to ace ome ons on gi j in der to t his del .
a mon ach to ing nal ata is to ent the ons ing a ble sis ( say and man 123 , ter 123 ) .
we ose to use ral bic ine ons use of eir ble cal ies and asy ion ( de oor , 23; een and man ,
gi j t
is a ine sis ith ion q and h
ere s t ads to a ore ted del ,
i j is a q - nal tor of ine nts
ice hat the lem of ing yi j has ced to one of ing h i j is a q - nal ble , so a ral ach is to del it ing the ian ion med for the ard lda
ver , h
s ti 123
s ti jni j
i j n 123
if we ume hat the ror rms are lso lly ted his ves
123 ank ced lda
i j n 123
i j n 123
a ced - ank ion of lda is ten med by ing or ing the les nto a wer - nal ace and ing in his ace .
the ace is sen to ize the een - ass nce ive to the hin - ass nce .
ese med les are led ear dis - nts or cal les .
son ( 123 ) and tie and ani ( 123 ) ine an ive ure ing the int
i are ely q - and h - nal ors , and l
ere l 123 and a ets of ors how hat ing mum ood to t the ian lda del of 123 ith the ded int ( 123 ) and ing to the mum ior ity is cal to the ion rom the ced ank lda ure .
h rix , h
is a q
the ame ank int can be ced on the ans in ( 123 ) .
his ves the nal orm of the lda del ,
i j n 123
i j n 123
in ich l 123 , l ons on l
and the a
i are ded if no int is sed .
ore we ace the ing ric -
l t sts
sg st and s is the sis rix ted ver a ne ice of nts .
the int des a orm of ion for the ear nts .
ore ils ill be ven in the ing ion .
in ice the ice uld ude , at ast , all ime nts in the ata set .
for ple the nal one ity 123 ars so the ice red the ame ata was red in 123 iod .
his del is cal to the ral nal del of 123 ith
3th of a ear nts rom age 123
123 to 123
123 ing ves
tg s t
in his ion we rst ail a mum ood ure for ing ( 123 ) and hen a hod for ing ons by ing ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) to orm an ate of the yes ier .
123 ing the del ing the lda del ves ing l 123
g and s 123
ice hat ( 123 ) ies
yi j n si j
si jg st
nce ons rom ent als are med to be ent , the int ion of the ved ves is
123 yi j
a ral ach to ing the del is to ize ( 123 ) ver l 123 ing his ood is a ult non - vex ion lem .
if the g
g and s 123
ely , tly i j had een ved , how -
ver , the int ood of yi j and g
i j uld ify to
23s 123 yi j
23s ni j
t yi j
ing his ood is uch ess lex , and sts ing the g i j as ing ata and ple - ing the em thm ( ter et al . , 23; ird and are , 123 ) .
the em thm ves al - ely ing the ted lue of the ing ata g i j and ing the int ood .
the e tep is med ing the ion
i jsi j
i j yi j
si jl 123
ile the m tep ves ing
t yi j
ni j log
ing g i j xed .
her ils can be ned rom the web ite www - rcf . usc . edu / eth .
as ith all
em hms the ood ill ase at ach ion but it is ble to ach a cal her han bal mum .
his can be a lem for ery rse ata ets uch as the one ral ity ata .
ver , the lem is lly ted by ing a ank int on g as sed in 123 .
her del ion ons ise in ice , uch as the ice of q , the ion of the ine sis .
ere are ral ble res hat ave een ied to els of his ype .
one is to ate the oss - ted ood for ous ons and ose the del ing to the mum ( mes et al . , 123 ) .
aic and bic are two her , ess lly ive , res hat ave lso ved ful on his ort of ata ( ice and wu , 123 ) .
in ice the nal ion ars to be ely ust to any ble ice of ion but his is an rea of ing rch .
ice hat der the ard ced - ank lda del ,
nce , ing yes ula , the ity of ass i ven x is nal to
hat ing an ion x ing ced - ank lda is cal to ing to
ote hat the ond ine ows rom the act hat l ts
his ans
it can be own hat
x and a
i are ual to the ear nts of x and m
i hat lda ces , up to an
the ame ach is sed for lda .
by ing ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) we see hat the ior ity hat
a rve y was ted rom ass i is nal to
ere sy is the ine sis rix for y and
so y ill be ied to
ice , ver , hat if one ets
nce ( 123 ) is ent to
l t sy
123 l t sy
ust as ith ard lda , ore ( 123 ) nds to ing to the ass ose ean is est to our est int in the ced y .
ice lso hat if y has een red ace ere nce is red ing the rse nce of
i are , up to an ive ant , the ear nts of y and m
y and a
l t sy
ver the ire ime iod , so hat sy
and ( 123 ) ces to
123 ons of lda
in his ion we how how ree of the ost ant ols hat lda des , ely , low nal ion , ion ons and ion , can be ted ing lda .
123 low nal ion of ves
one of the ons for the ity of lda is hat it des the ity to iew igh - nal ata by ing it nto a low - nal ace .
his ows one to lly ine the ion een
ure 123 : ( a ) ear nts for ach rve of the nal one ity ata , ted nst the age age ple ere red at .
( b ) tes of the ard ror of the ear nts for ach rve ted nst the age age .
ere is a ear end of ing ity ith age .
ses .
as ned in 123 , in a ard ite - nal ing the ear ant of x als
up to an ive ant .
as cov nce een ent ons is ean and can be ily ted by ual ion .
i , the med les all ave ity nce , so the
his des a ral ach to ing nal ata nto a low - nal ace .
in the lda y is the ear ant for y and hat if y i .
ver , if nly nts of the rve ave een
y , ven in ( 123 ) .
all hat
del the gue of has een ved ver the ire val cov
l t sy
his kes ect son of nts ore ult use the nce ure may no ger be nal and , in ral , ves red at ent ime nts ill ave ent ces .
ver , 123 , so the ear ant is a lar , the nly ect his has is hat ach int has a ent ard ror .
res 123 - 123 ide les of his .
ure 123 ( a ) ows ear nts for ach rve rom the wth rve ata of ure 123 , ted sus the age age for ons rom ach ual .
for a two - ass ion , uch as his , the lot lso des a ple ion le; ves ith ive ear ant are ied as ale and ves ith ive ear ant as ale .
the lot als ome ing ies of the ata .
ves red at ges low een ars are ely ell - ted ile als red at der ges ave tle ble ion .
his end is lso ent pon ose ion of the nal ves .
the two lid cal nes her ide of ero ive the ted ues for the a is .
hey ent the ass ids in the med ace .
eir ose ity to ach her ive to the ity of the ear nts ate tle all ion een ses .
ver , all hat , as a ult
ure 123 : ( a ) lot of the ear nts for ach rve on the nal one ity ata sus the ted ard ors .
( b ) a ear ant lot for a ted ata set .
it ows a rly ear nce een the ses but lso a ant lap .
of ( 123 ) , the ear ant of y ill ave a ard ror of one if the rve is red ver the ire val .
in act the ion een the ids is out 123 123 ard ons .
his ies hat the ion een ers is a ult of the all ber of ons per ual , ich use the ard ror to ase lly .
a ear ion uld be ved ith ore ons .
ure 123 ( b ) ves the ard ror for ach ear ant sus age age of ion .
a rve ith nts ver the ire ime iod uld ave ard ror 123 , so his lot ves an ion of the unt of ion ost by nly ing the rve at a ted ber of ime nts .
the ard ors nge rom ver ten to hty , ing hat a eat eal of acy has een ced .
the sed ity lso ins the oor ion at der ges ere the ard ors are rge ive to the nce een the ass ids .
nce the del has een t , the ard ror can be ted for a rve ved at an ary set of ime nts .
his des a hod for ing on an mal ign in rms of ing a ite ber of ons for an ual to ize the ard ror .
ure 123 ves two ots ich ine the ear nts and eir ard ors her .
his ves an asy hod for ing on the ity of a ven ion .
for ple nts ith igh ard ror uld be ted ith ion .
we all ese ear ant ots .
the eft and ght cal ted nes ate the ass ids ile the ter nes are the ass ors .
ure 123 ( a ) ows hat the nts ith ely low ard ror ave far ter ion han ose ith a rge ard ror .
ure 123 ( b ) des a lar lot for a ted ata set ing of 123 ves red at the ame set of ime nts as hat of the ata set ted in ure 123
ice hat ven ugh ach rve has een red at rly nly ced nts out the ime val the ard ors ill nge up to ten .
the two ses are ely ell ted but ere is ill ome ear lap .
the nce een the ass ids is 123 ard ons , ing hat one uld eve ear ect ion by ing the ves at a der nge of ime nts .
res 123 and 123 are her ear ant ots .
hey ere ced by ing ity as the ass
ure 123 : ear nts for the nal one ity ata ing ity as the ass ble .
( a ) the ted nes ent , rom eft to ght , ass ids for cks , ics , tes , and ans .
ice hat cks and ans are rly ell ted ile ics and tes are not .
( b ) the lid nes ent ion ies for ing a ven rve .
ble on a set of the wth rve ata , all les .
a lot of the wth ves for ach ity ( not own ) tes hat ere may be no ear ion een ses .
his is rne out by ure 123 ( a ) ich ves a lot of ear ant sus age age .
ere is ant lap een the ses .
ver , it is ill ble to ain ome ion .
the our cal ted nes ent the ass cen - ids for , rom eft to ght , cks , ics , tes and ans .
it is ear hat ere is ery tle ion een ics and tes ile cks and ans are ely ell ted .
his is ted by ure 123 ich ows ear nts and a lot of the raw ata for cks and ans one .
the fer - ces are now ear .
ure 123 ( b ) is cal to 123 ( a ) ept hat the ree ion ies are ted in ace of the ass ids .
the ion ies ide the ace nto our ons .
nts in the ost ion are ied as ack , the ext as nic , wed by ite and lly ian .
the ity of lda to orm ion is of ual nce to its ity to ain ion een ses .
in 123 we wed hat to ify a rve ing lda one eed nly uce ( 123 ) and ify ing ( 123 ) .
hen all ses ave ual ght and y is one nal his ion ule ies to
ile ion is not the ary oal on the nal one ity ata , we ply ( 123 ) to it to ate the ure .
hen ing der as the ass ble the all ing ror ate mes out at 123 ver , the ate ses lly to 123 23% for ges der 123
his rms to our ons rom ure 123 ( a ) ich ows uch ter ion for wer
23% for ges ver 123 and ses to 123
ure 123 : ( a ) ear nts for cks and ans .
ile ere is ill ome lap the ion is far rer .
the cal ine ves the ion ary .
( b ) a lot of the raw ata for cks and ans .
ice hat cks end to ave a her one ity .
the two lid nes ent the ans for cks and ans ile the ted nes are for ics and tes .
ble 123 ves the ion rix hen ity is sed as the ass ble .
it ows the rue ity and the ing ion for ach of the 123 als .
for ple , 123 of the 123 ans ere ied as ian ile 123 of the 123 ics ere ied as ack .
ile the all ing ror ate is 123 23% , a rge ion of the ors are ong ics and tes , ile ans and cks are ely ell ied .
hen ans and cks are red one the ror ate ops to 23% .
in ble 123 we ent the lts rom a ion udy ere the lda ure is red ith two her ers .
the rst is the ing hod of 123 .
all hat the ing hod sts of ing a ble sis , in his ase bic nes , to ach rve and hen ing by ing lda on the sis nts .
the ing hod des a ple son to lda .
the ond is the yes ier ich is mal if the rue ion of the ses is own .
it des the est ase ror ate
ble 123 : ion rix of ons for the our ies .
the ers in ses ive the ges of ach ity ing the ing ion .
ans and cks ave ely tle ion ile ics and tes ave a eat eal .
ble 123 : est ror tes rom the ion udy for ous ent ons of ing ata .
the ers in ses ate ted ard ors for the ror tes .
udy ted of a ree - ass lem .
for ach ass , 123 ves ere ted ing to the lda del ( 123 ) and led on a ne rid of 123 lly - ced nts .
hen , for ach rve , a dom set , 123 - 23% , of the ons , ere ved to ate rve nts .
ple ata ets ere ted and the lda and ing res ere ied to ach .
ror tes ere hen ted on a ate , est set , of 123 ves .
ore the yes ror ate , ich is the est ble , was lso ted on his est set .
ver the 123 ime nts the age ion of ean ves een ses 123 and 123 and 123 ile it was ice his ber een ses 123 and 123
the ard een ses 123 and 123 was 123 ion of the ror rms was s 123
lly the age ard ion ver the 123 ime nts of the dom ves sg was ely 123 123
the rst ure ves a ide as to the nal ile the ast two ate the ise .
ble 123 des a ary of the est ror tes .
as one uld ect , all ree ets of ror tes ase ith the ion of ing ata .
of far ore est is the ity een the lda and yes ror tes .
ven ith 23% of the ata ved the nce is nly 123 23% .
ith ess han 23% of the ata ved the ing and lda ods ive ble lts .
ver , the ing hod tes dly til at 23% its ror ate is ose to hat of the ive ier ich mly gns a ass bel sed on the ior ity for ach ass .
ote hat at 23% the ing hod uld not ven be ied to ral of the ted ata ets use ual ves uld not be ted .
123 ass ion ons
in a ard two - ass lda ing the ant ion is ned as
tl t sts
ing the ion of a int .
in the lda ing m
is the hin oup nce rix .
his ion ves the ght put on ach ion in so the nal gue is
sg st and s is the ine sis rix ted on a ne rid of nts ver the ire ime iod .
ion ( 123 ) can be sed to uce a ant ion for any set of ata .
ure 123 des les rom the wth rve ata .
ure 123 ( a ) ves the ant ion ing der as the ass ble .
ere is a ong ive eak ore age 123 and a rge ive eak ds; his tes a ase ift een ers and ins why ere is far ter ion for the ier ges .
ure 123 ( b ) ves a lar lot ing ity as the ass ble .
ain ost of the ion ars to be in the rly ars .
a son of ant ons ced rom the ion udy of 123 , ing oth the lda and ing hes , is ven in ure 123
the ion ant ion is own in ack ile
ure 123 : ant ons for the wth rve ata of ure 123
( a ) ing der as the ass ble .
ere is a ong ion of ase ift .
( b ) ing ity as the ass ble .
its tes are in rey .
res 123 ( a ) and ( b ) ent lts rom the udy ith 23% of the ata ved ile res 123 ( c ) and ( d ) ent lts ith 23% ved .
for ach , the top lot ows the ant ons rom 123 ent ons ing lda , ile the tom lot ves the ing aph for the ing ach .
as ing or ing the ant ion by a ant ves the las - ion ged , the tes ave een med to uce the ast res t to the ion ant ion .
it is ear hat in oth ses the lda ach is ing ore ate rim - ant ons , ted in the sed ror tes of ble 123
der the ard lda del
cov yi j
si jg st
in his ion we der a ber of ble ons to his del by ing ent ons for g and nce the nce rix of yi j .
123 ced ank nce ces der ( 123 ) , no ons are ced on the ure of g .
in ice , the ood ion for ata ets uch as the nal one ity ata has a rge ber of cal ima ich ake his del ult to t .
as a ult , for ven ate q , one can uce a hly ble t to the ata .
mes et al .
( 123 ) how hat uch ems can be ced by ing a ank int on g .
a ank p int is ent to
q dq t and
cov yi j
si jq dq tst
lda ant ons
lda ant ons
ing ant ons
ing ant ons
ure 123 : lts rom two ent ets of ons .
ots ( a ) and ( b ) how the rue ant ion ( ack ine ) and tes ( rey nes ) rom 123 ent ons ing lda ( a ) and ing ( b ) ods ith 23% of ach rve ved .
ots ( c ) and ( d ) how the ent lts ith 23% of ach rve ved .
is a q
q ) rix and d is a nal rix .
mes et al .
( 123 ) est ral ods for ing the ank and ude hat the mal ank for
the lts rom ion 123 ere ced ing uch a ced ank del ith p
ese ata is p use his ave a far ter t to the ata .
123 nal tic ant sis the lda ure , in ogy ith lda , kes an ion of a mon nce rix , g i j ors rom ach ass .
his can ult in a ble ion in nce for ses ith a all ple ize .
ver , the ion can use a ble ase in ias if the ces are not mon .
in a ard ing tic ant sis ( qda ) des a ess ive ure by ing ent nce ces .
in a lar ner the lda del of 123 can be zed by ing the ion of a mon nce erm , g
his ves the nce ure
cov yi j
i is the nce rix for ass i .
the ior ity is now nal to
by ing his del and ing to arg ini di y tic ant sis ( qda ) is ced .
a ion of qda , ich we all nal
123 nal zed ant sis
it is ell own hat lda can orm dly if the ion of a mon hin - ass nce rix is ted , ile qda lly res a ger ple ize ( ald and mal , 123 ) .
a all ple ize ses a nce rix to be ced ich is ose to lar and nce ive ght is ced on the ons ing to all ues .
ion has een hly ful in his ort of rly - sed rse lem ( ton ( 123 ) , van ( 123 ) ) .
man ( 123 ) sts the ing ion ach .
let si ni be the hin ass ple nce rix for ass i and let ni is sed for qda .
a ise een the two hes can be ved by ing the hin - ass nce rix
n is the led nce rix ich is sed for lda ile si
hen s
123 s and ni 123
a ond vel of ion , ely age rds the ity rix , is ded ugh
ere q is the ion of the ace .
g is sed as the hin - ass nce rix for the ith ass .
man lls his ach zed ant sis ( rda ) .
rda has een own to orm oth lda and qda in a rge ety of ons .
a ion to nal zed ant sis ( rda ) can be ved ing the fol -
ing nce ure
cov yi j
si j g
is ned as in ( 123 ) .
the ice of 123 and 123 is ade ing oss - ion .
ing oss - ion to the rda del is lly lly ive .
ver , in the rda ing , an aic ate ows for a tly ter ion ( man , 123 ) .
his ate can be sed in the lda ing by ing the qda del , ing the ing g i js as q nal ata and ing rda to ate 123 and 123 , and lly ing the rda del ith 123 and 123 xed .
rda ins oth lda and qda as sub els .
by ing oth 123 and 123 ual to ero the qda 123 ces the lda del .
ore , by ing 123 a nal ion of the est - ans ier is ced ere an ion is
123 and 123
del is ced .
ile ing 123
ned to the est ass ean , in ean nce .
we ave ted a hod , ich we all nal ear ant sis ( lda ) , for liz - ing ear ant sis to nal ata .
lda ses all the ual lda ols , ing a low - nal cal ary of the ata , and ion of new ves .
hen the nal ata ave een red ver a rge ber of ime nts the ure des lar lts to the ing hod ced in ion 123 .
ver , hen nly nts of the ion are ble the lda ach can ill uce ble mes ile the ing hod ils ely .
lda can lso be zed in a ber of ays .
a ced ank ion can be ted hen the ata are ery rse and a tic ion can be sed hen an ion of a mon nce rix is ate .
a zed ion , ich is a ise een lda and qda , is lso ble .
her ble ion , ich we ave not red , is to del ous nce and ion in the ror rms .
his may ell ove the ion acy of the hod ded ugh ime nts ave een ved per rve to ide ate tes .
ely , ing s 123 to ary uld ake it ble to rce the int ,
l t sts
in urn ( 123 ) ows res uch as ich res hat , if a rve is red at all ime nts , cov 123 ( b ) to ide a ure of the unt of ion ost ugh ing ons .
if s 123 was wed to ary his ion uld no ger be ble .
the ors uld ike to ank the tor and ees for any ive ons .
vor tie was lly ted by nts rom the nal nce ion and the nal tes of lth .
