over the last decade ongoing development of statistical mod - elling tools ( e . g . , hastie et al . , 123 ) has led to a growing sophistication in the methods used to analyse relationships between the distributions of species and their environment ( e . g . , guisan and zimmermann , 123 ) .
such analyses are now widely used in terrestrial ( e . g . , pereira and itami , 123; ferrier et al . , 123 ) , freshwater ( e . g . , lek et al . , 123; olden and jackson , 123 ) and marine settings ( e . g . , ysebaert et al . , 123 ) , motivated by purposes ranging from the testing of ecologi -
cal hypotheses ( e . g . , austin , 123 ) or processes ( leathwick and austin , 123 ) to the prediction of species distributions across geographically extensive areas for conservation ( e . g . , gregr and trites , 123; elith and burgman , 123 ) and / or resource management ( e . g . , borchers et al . , 123 ) .
while earlier tech - niques such as generalized linear models ( glmmccullagh and nelder , 123 ) were found to be limited in their ability to t the complex , non - linear relationships often occurring between species and environmental predictors ( e . g . , austin et al . , 123 ) , a range of techniques are now available that allow their more realistic description .
of these , generalized additive
e - mail address : j . leathwick@niwa . co . nz ( j . r .
leathwick ) .
123 - 123 / $ see front matter 123 elsevier b . v .
all rights reserved .
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
models ( gamhastie and tibshirani , 123 ) are perhaps the most widely used , particularly in terrestrial ( e . g . , leathwick , 123 ) and marine studies ( e . g . , gregr and trites , 123 ) .
how - ever , although their use of non - parametric smoothing func - tions allows exible description of complex species responses to environment ( yee and mitchell , 123 ) , their computational complexity makes cumbersome the generation of predictions for independent datasets such as in a geographic information
two other commonly used techniques capable of tting non - linear relationships between species and environment are neural nets ( ripley , 123 ) and classication and regression trees ( breiman et al . , 123 ) .
of these , neural nets are prone to become computationally intractable with larger datasets ( e . g . , moisen and frescino , 123; friedman and meulman , 123 ) , while misclassication can be problematic with clas - sication and regression trees unless they are used in con - junction with boosting algorithms ( friedman and meulman , 123 ) .
a third alternative , multivariate adaptive regression splines ( marsfriedman , 123 ) , has shown promise in recent comparative studies ( moisen and frescino , 123; mu noz and fellicsimo , 123 ) .
this technique combines the strengths of regression trees and spline tting by replacing the step func - tions normally associated with regression trees with piecewise linear basis functions ( see hastie and tibshirani , 123 , chap - ter 123 ) .
this allows the modelling of complex relationships between a response variable and its predictors .
in practical terms , mars has exceptional analytical speed , and its simple rule - based basis functions facilitate the prediction of species distributions using independent data ( mu noz and fellicsimo , 123 ) , stored , for example , in a gis .
in this study we compare the performance of gam and mars analyses of an extensive set of data describing the distributions of 123 sh species in new zealand rivers and streams .
while our past experience has mostly involved use of gams ( e . g . , elith and burgman , 123; leathwick and austin , 123 ) , our increasing use of extensive databases has some - times resulted in very slow model tting , and at times we have been unable to t gam models to full datasets because of memory limitations imposed by the numerical complexities of this technique .
this prompted our exploration of alternative methods capable of realistically analysing ecological data .
a comprehensive description of the ecological insights derived from the mars component of this analysis is contained in leathwick et al .
( 123 ) .
materials and methods
both the species distribution data and the associated envi - ronmental data used in this study are described compre - hensively by leathwick et al .
( 123 ) and only a brief sum - mary is provided here .
fish distribution data comprised capture records from 123 sites , extracted from the new zealand freshwater fish database ( mcdowall and richardson , 123; http : / / www . niwa . co . nz / services / nzffd / ) .
as records of sh abundances were available for only a subset of sites , all data were converted to a common basis ( presenceabsence )
table 123 fish species included in the analysis , and their prevalence , i . e . , the proportion of sample sites at which they were recorded
for this analysis .
data describe the distributions of 123 diadro - mous species ( table 123 ) , species that move between freshwater and marine habitats in completing their life cycles ( mcdowall , 123 ) .
all species occurred in the dataset with a capture fre - quency of 123% or above , i . e . , had a minimum of nearly 123 pos - itive occurrences .
sixteen environmental predictors ( table 123 ) were selected for their functional relevance to the physiolog - ical and behavioural attributes of diadromous species .
these include factors describing the character of the river segment within which the sampling site was located , downstream fac - tors affecting the ability of diadromous sh to migrate from the sea to that river segment , and upstream / catchment - scale factors affecting environmental conditions at the sampling site .
as regression methods are potentially sensitive to cor - related variables , the nal set of candidate variables was restricted to those with pairwise correlations of less than 123 , with one variable normalised to reduce its correlation with
generalized additive models initially , we attempted to t generalized additive models in s - plus ( v .
123 , insightful corporation , seattle ) using a start - ing model that included all predictor variables as smooth terms , and which was then simplied as required using a back - wards / forwards stepwise procedure to remove terms making a non - signicant contribution .
however , this procedure was not only very slow , but we were also unable to compare the statistical signicance of tting predictors as linear versus smooth terms because of the excessive memory demands with a dataset of this size .
similar problems were also encoun - tered when this analysis was attempted using the gam pack - age in r ( r development core team , 123 ) .
as an alternative strategy , we used bruto ( available in the mda library for both s - plus and r and documented by hastie and tibshirani , 123 ) , which ts a generalized addi - tive model using an adaptive back - tting procedure ( hastie and tibshirani , 123 ) .
in addition to identifying which vari - ables to include in the nal gam model , bruto identies the
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
table 123 environmental predictors used to analyse sh capture
segment scale predictors
segjantsummer air temperature (
c ) , normalised with respect to segjant , i . e . , segtseaswinter air temperature ( where w is the winter temperature for a segment , w the average winter temperature for all segments , ( cid : 123 ) w the standard deviation of winter temperature , s is the summer temperature and so on
segflowsegment ow ( m123 / s ) , fourth root transformed segshaderiparian shade ( proportion )
segslopesegment slope (
) , square - root transformed
dsdistdistance to coast ( km )
dsaveslopedownstream average slope (
dsmaxslopemaximum downstream slope (
upstream / catchment scale predictors
usavgtnormaverage air temperature ( usraindaysdays / month with rain greater than 123 mm
usslopeaverage slope in the catchment ( usindigforestarea with indigenous forest ( proportion ) usphosaverage phosphorous concentration of underlying rocks , 123 : very low to 123 : very high uscalcaverage calcium concentration of underlying rocks , 123 : very low to 123 : very high ushardaverage hardness of underlying rocks , 123 : very low to 123 : very high uspeatarea of peat ( proportion ) uslakearea of lake ( proportion )
mean and range
123 , 123 to 123
optimal degree of smoothing for each variable .
bruto also allows specication of a penalty parameter that is applied to the addition of extra variables in the model , and we used 123 - fold cross - validation to verify that the default value of 123 for the penalty parameter was appropriate for our data ( hastie et al . , 123 ) .
however , because bruto can only be used to t models assuming gaussian errors , model parameters describ - ing the selected variables and their degree of smoothing were extracted and used to specify a model of identical form but allowing for binomial errors .
this was then tted using the standard gam function ( gam ) .
comparison of full backwards stepwise gam models and bruto / gam models for all species using k - fold cross - validation ( e . g . , hastie et al . , 123 ) indi - cated that , while the full gam models were better tted to the training data , the bruto / gam models delivered superior performance for independent sites .
in addition , because the bruto / gam models could be tted in only 123% of the time taken for the full backwards gam models , we were able to assess their performance more rigorously using the computa - tionally intensive re - sampling techniques described below .
multivariate adaptive regression splines all mars models were tted in r using code available in the same mda library used for tting the bruto / gam models .
we also evaluated the closely similar polymars , available in the polspline library for r , but found this to be much slower .
it also differs in some key respects from the original formulation
mars is a procedure for tting adaptive non - linear regres - sion that uses piecewise basis functions to dene relation - ships between a response variable and some set of predictors ( friedman , 123 ) .
basis functions are dened in pairs , using
a knot or value of a variable that denes an inection point along the range of a predictor , e . g . ,
bfn = max ( 123 , 123 segflow ) and bfn+123 = max ( 123 , segflow 123 ) .
in this example the knot takes a value of 123 , and the values of bfn can therefore be seen to have a value of 123 when segflow is 123 , declining to 123 as segflow approaches 123
values remain xed at 123 at values of segflow greater than 123
by contrast , bfn+123 ( the pair to bfn ) takes a value of segflow 123 when segflow is greater than 123 , but otherwise takes a value of 123
within the model , coefcients applied to each of the basis functions dene the slopes of the non - zero sections .
use of a single basis func - tion allows the tting of a non - zero slope within part of the range of a predictor variable ( fig .
123a ) , while the tting of two basis functions for a predictor variable in a linear regression allows specication of different slopes within different parts of its range ( fig .
more than one knot ( i . e . , more than one pair of basis functions ) can be specied for a predictor vari - able , allowing complex non - linear relationships to be tted .
alternatively , the basis functions can be envisaged as a new predictor matrix , in which one or more columns that are basis functions replace each predictor variable in the original data .
when tting a mars model , knots are chosen automat - ically in a forward stepwise manner ( hastie and tibshirani , 123 ) .
candidate knots can be placed at any position within the range of each predictor variable to dene a pair of basis functions .
at each step , the model selects the knot and its corresponding pair of basis functions that give the great - est decrease in the residual sum of squares .
knot selection
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
123 responses of varying complexity tted to different predictors by a mars model .
( a ) a single knot was specied at a value of 123 , but only the right - hand basis function was retained in the nal model; ( b ) a single knot was specied at a value of 123 , and both basis functions were retained .
proceeds until some maximum model size is reached , after which a backwards - pruning procedure is applied in which those basis functions that contribute least to model t are pro - gressively removed .
at this stage , a predictor variable can be dropped from the model completely if none of its basis func - tions contribute meaningfully to predictive performance .
the sequence of models generated from this process is then eval - uated using generalized cross - validation , and the model with the best predictive t is selected .
two novel features are possible when using mars .
first , interactions between variables can be tted , but rather than tting a global interaction between a pair of variables , these are specied using basis functions .
as each basis function only describes variation for part of the range of its variable , interac - tions are specied locally , i . e . , the interaction effect is conned to the sub - ranges of the two variables described by the non - zero parts of the basis functions , rather than across the full range of both variables .
the r implementation of mars also allows for the tting of multiple response variables , which allows a model to be tted that simultaneously relates vari - ation in the occurrence of all species to the environmental predictors in one analysis .
in this case knots are selected based on their ability to reduce the residual sum of squares , averaged across all species .
the nal mars model then uses a common set of basis functions for all response variables , but individual regressions are used to relate variation in each species to the nal set of basis functions ( i . e . , to calculate unique coefcients for each basis function per species ) .
the current implementation of mars in r uses least squares tting appropriate for data with normally distributed errors .
with binomial data this frequently results in the range of tted values being erroneously expanded beyond their nor - mal 123 range , e . g . , from 123 to 123 or more .
rather than sim - ply truncating these values , we used the procedure described by friedman ( 123 ) in which he proposes use of a glm to con - strain them within the correct range for presenceabsence data .
this was achieved by tting a mars model using the standard r code , extracting the basis functions from the mars model , and computing a glm that related these to the pres - ence / absence of each species .
four sets of mars models were tted for this comparative analysis , i . e . , two sets of 123 indi -
vidual species models , one tted without interactions and the second tted with rst order interactions .
two multiresponse models were then tted , one without interactions and one with rst order interactions .
comparison of the performance of the ve sets of statistical models , i . e . , individual gam models , and individual and mul - tiresponse mars models tted with and without interactions , was carried out using both the change in residual deviance as in conventional logistic regression , and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( roce . g . , fielding and bell , 123 ) .
the latter indicates the ability of a model to discriminate between sites where a species is present versus those where it is absent .
a score of 123 indicates that a model has no discriminatory ability , while a score of 123 indicates that presences and absences are perfectly discriminated .
roc areas were calculated for each of the models by evaluating the performance of a model against the species occurrence data used to dene it ( referred to as roctrain ) .
however , as these estimates are likely to be overly optimistic about model per - formance , we also used the 123+ bootstrap method ( rocboot ) to estimate model performance when predictions are made to independent data ( efron and tibshirani , 123 ) .
bootstrapping gives similar results to a cross - validation , but is less prone to bias ( steyerberg et al . , 123 ) .
comparative performance of gam and mars
comparison of the ve sets of models relating sh pres - ence / absence to environment indicates that the bruto / gam models explained , on average , approximately 123% more units of deviance than both sets of non - interaction mars models ( table 123 ) .
for mars , the individual models tted using inter - actions explained the greatest amounts of deviance , while the multiresponse model tted with interactions explained
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
table 123 summary of gam and mars models
mars individual with interactions mars multiresponse with interactions
table values indicate : the average amount of deviance explained; the average number of predictor variables retained in the nal models; area under the receiver operator characteristic curve statistics ( roc ) averaged across 123 species and calculated using the training data ( roctrain ) ; and roc scores calculated using bootstrap re - sampling ( rocboot ) to assess performance when predicting to independent sites , with standard errors shown in brackets .
intermediate amounts of deviance .
gam models included the highest number of predictor variables ( table 123 ) , and both the non - interaction and interaction mars multiresponse models used more predictors than the average number used by the corresponding mars individual models .
average marginal changes in deviance when dropping indi - vidual predictors from the various nal models ( table 123 ) sug - gest that a relatively small set of predictors plays a dominant role in explaining variation in the probability of capture for most diadromous sh species .
these include correlates or drivers of key functional aspects of stream character , includ - ing accessibility from the sea ( dsdist ) , summer temperature ( segjant ) , stream size ( segflow ) and catchment - scale drivers of variation in stream hydrology , particularly those affecting variability in water ow ( usslope and usraindays ) .
roc areas calculated for the various models using their training data ( roctrain in table 123; appendix a ) suggest that the gam models marginally outperform both the individual mars models and the mars multiresponse model unless the mars
models are tted with interactions .
however , when the same statistic is calculated using bootstrap simulation to assess performance when predicting to independent data , standard errors on the adjusted roc scores ( rocboot in table 123 ) indi - cate that the practical signicance of any differences between the ve sets of models is minimal .
comparison of roc boot - strap scores from the non - interaction mars individual and mars multiresponse models indicates that the latter on aver - age gives marginally better discrimination , particularly for species of lower prevalence ( fig .
123 ) , such as galpos and rhoret
inspection of the response functions tted by the mars individual and multiresponse models indicates that the piece - wise mars functions generally approximated closely the more continuous curves tted by the gam models ( fig .
most differences occurred in parts of the range of variables rep - resented by few data points , and / or where there were wide standard errors about the gam curves .
complex , non - linear responses were tted for most species for a number of vari -
table 123 summary of contributions of predictors to gam individual models , non - interaction mars individual models , and the non - interaction mars multiresponse model
table entries indicate both the number of models for which each variable was retained as a signicant predictor ( count ) , and the mean change in residual deviance when dropping that variable from nal models ( - dev . ) .
the two right - hand columns indicate changes in deviance averaged across all three modelling techniques , and their ranking , based on this average .
assessment of the contribution of environmental variables to mars models tted using interactions was not attempted .
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
wise gam .
the mars multiresponse models required approx - imately 123% of the time taken to t all 123 mars individual
comparative performance of gam and mars
these results provide important insights into both the relative strengths of two readily available modelling methods , and the need for robust methods for assessing model performance .
the value of using models capable of tting non - linear rela - tionships between species occurrence or abundance and envi - ronment identied in other studies ( e . g . , moisen and frescino , 123; olden and jackson , 123; mu noz and fellicsimo , 123; moisen et al . , this issue ) is emphasized again here by the fre - quency with which complex non - linear responses were tted in our analyses .
many of these tted responses were asym - metrical or skewed , and would therefore be difcult to t with conventional parametric models .
while we focus on the tech - nical aspects of the modelling here , we have investigated the ecological relationships in detail elsewhere and are satised that they are sensible and provide insight into the ecology of these sh ( leathwick et al . , 123 ) .
comparison of gam and mars models conrms that the piecewise tting of linear segments by the latter captures much of the information described by the more sophisti - cated scatter - plot smooth functions used in gams .
although the relative lack of performance difference between the two
123 relationship between species prevalence and the improvement in roc score calculated using bootstrap re - sampling when tting a multiresponse as opposed to an individual mars model .
the trend line indicates the best t using an equation of the form - roc =123 ln ( prevalence ) ( 123 ) , and has an r123 of
ables , and particularly for segjant , along which there was par - ticularly strong sorting of species .
one variable ( usavgtnorm ) was omitted from the analysis after it was tted with overly complex curves with very high standard errors in a large pro - portion of the gam models .
computation speed was similar for the bruto / gam and mars individual models , both tting in around 123% of the time taken to t a full backwards step -
123 examples of functions relating the presence / absence of angdie to three predictors as tted by mars ( ac ) and gam
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
types of mars models and the more numerically complex gam models was somewhat surprising , it is consistent with results from several other recent comparative studies ( e . g . , elith , 123; moisen and frescino , 123; mu noz and fellicsimo , 123 ) .
together , these suggest that a number of non - linear techniques offer similar levels of performance for modelling species distributions , leaving questions of choice of technique to be inuenced more by other considerations such as com - putational speed , ability to ignore predictors of marginal rele - vance , transparency of tted relationships and the ease with which model results can be incorporated into other analyses .
while the superior speed of mars had already been noted in other ecological studies ( e . g . , moisen and frescino , 123 ) , the computational efciency of bruto when used as a tool to specify a gam model was a more novel result .
although this algorithm has been available for approximately 123 years , we are not aware of its use in any ecological studies .
its speed results largely from its use of an adaptive back - tting proce - dure similar to that used in mars to guide both the selection of variables and to identify their optimal degree of smooth - ing .
in addition , varying the penalty parameter used to specify model complexity using cross - validation to assess model per - formance on independent data allows a ready means to iden - tify the most parsimonious model .
in terms of speed , both these approaches clearly offer considerable advantages ( 123 orders of magnitude ) over more conventional stepwise tting of gams , and are also likely to be considerably faster than other computationally intensive techniques that can become intractable with larger datasets ( moisen and frescino , 123 ) .
both techniques readily allow inspection of the responses t - ted between a species and its predictors to enable their con - sistency with ecological knowledge to be assessed ( austin , 123; austin et al . , this issue ) .
in addition , our experience con - rms that the computationally more simple basis functions tted by mars offer advantages over gam models when model results are used for subsequent prediction as in a gis ( mu noz and fellicsimo , 123 ) .
finally , the problems caused by our gam models tting overly complex curves , and which resulted in the omission of one variable from the analysis , were not encountered when that variable was included in models t - ted with mars .
the biggest disadvantage we identify in the immediate use of bruto and mars for ecological modelling is that their current implementations are tted assuming normally dis - tributed errors , so they need to be coupled with a gam or glm model , respectively , to properly analyse presence / absence or count data , a procedure described for mars by friedman ( 123 ) .
in both cases , this was achieved readily through the development of relatively simple scripts in r .
some caution may be required when the automated model selection proce - dure is used to specify degrees of freedom ( bruto ) or select knots ( mars ) for correlated pairs of variables .
where two such variables are tted with markedly different degrees of free - dom , both the complexity of the responses that are tted , and their relative contributions to the model outcome may vary depending on the order in which they are tted .
in practice , this means that care must be taken with choice of predic - tor variables , and preference given to variables that are not strongly correlated to others in the set .
predictions will still be reasonable if made to regions where the predictor vari -
ables have a similar correlation structure , but may be more problematic if predictions are made for new sites where these correlations change ( austin , 123 ) .
robust model evaluation
the importance of robust model evaluation is clearly evident when the roc area statistics we computed using the training data are compared with those from the more rigorous boot - strapping that assesses model performance when predictions are made for new data .
for example , roc area statistics com - puted using training data indicated that the gam models pro - vided better discrimination than either the individual mars models or the mars multiresponse model .
however , results from the more robust bootstrap assessments indicate minimal difference in model discrimination , and instead suggest that there is a strong tendency for both the gam and interaction mars models to over - t the data .
that is , they have adapted to idiosyncrasies that , while occurring in the training data , had little relevance to an independent set of evaluation data .
this issue is discussed further in edwards et al .
( this issue ) .
k - fold cross validation provides an alternative approach to model evaluation , and might be more feasible with some computa - tionally demanding modelling approaches such as stepwise gams .
however , its estimates of error rates with independent data are likely to be less precise than those derived from boot - strapping , which can be thought of as a smoothed version of cross - validation ( efron and tibshirani , 123 ) .
other examples of the use of the bootstrap in evaluating modelled predic - tions can be found in wintle et al .
( 123 ) and thomson et al .
simultaneous modelling of species
finally , we were surprised by the strong performance of the multiresponse mars model , and this result has potentially major implications for the practicalities of analysing large datasets describing the distributions of numerous species .
our initial concern was that the distributions of species of low prevalence might be poorly analysed by such a model , because their specic relationships with environment would be sub - merged by information from more widespread species .
how - ever , roc area scores for predictions of low prevalence species from the mars multiresponse model were consistently higher than for equivalent scores from the mars individual mod - els .
we interpret this as most likely reecting the manner in which a mars multiresponse model uses information across the full suite of species in selecting which predictors to use in forming basis functions , i . e . , relevant predictors are included because of their strong community signal , whereas that signal might be insufcient to trigger inclusion of these predictors when tting a single species model ( guisan et al . , 123 ) .
in addition , more prevalent species are likely to inuence the selection of a larger set of relevant predictors than would be selected if rare species were analysed on their own .
while this might introduce some risk that models for rare species are over - tted , it has the advantage that the distributions of rare species are modelled within the same environmental framework as their more widespread counterparts .
as a con - sequence , predicted distributions for rarer species are more
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
likely to coincide with the distributions of those common species with which they co - occur .
while we performed our analyses with equal weights applied to all species , some ben - et might be derived from altering weights to increase the inuence of widespread species where these are of particu -
in conceptual terms , such a model can be seen as strongly convergent with the purposes of canonical correspondence analysis ( ccater braak , 123 ) , an ordination technique that is widely used to relate community patterns to environment .
however , this latter technique makes a number of important assumptions including that both species niche breadths and maximum abundances are equal , and that both the distribu - tions of species responses to environment across plots and of species abundances within plots are gaussian in shape .
in addition , analysis is constrained so that the canonical axes are composed of linear combinations of environmental vari - ables .
while cca is considered robust to departures from these assumptions , uncertainty remains about the degree to which the effects of such departures affect analysis results ( see austin , 123 ) .
given that the majority of ecological datasets are unlikely to meet these assumptions , we suggest that mars offers an important alternative for the analysis of relation - ships between environment and community composition .
as our results show , it is capable of both identifying the most parsimonious set of environmental predictors that explain variation in multiresponse composition , and robustly describ - ing the distributions of species within the multi - dimensional space dened by these predictors .
most importantly , mars achieves this using statistical techniques that accommodate robustly the widely varying and generally non - linear relation - ships that exist between species and their environment .
this could also have important applications for the modelling of rare species , which although difcult to model well , are often the focus of conservation effort .
this project would not have been possible without the enor - mous effort that went into the assembly of the new zealand freshwater fish database , which was instigated by bob mcdowall and is maintained by jody richardsonparticularly thanks are owed to numerous researchers who have con - tributed their data over several decades .
similar credit must be given to those who developed major databases describing environmental variation in new zealands rivers and streams , and in particular ton snelder , mark weatherhead and helen hurren .
the inspiration for a comparative analysis of gam and mars models was generated by discussions at a workshop on statistical modelling of species distributions held in riederalp , switzerland , in august 123
this work was funded by new zealands foundation for research , science and technology under contract c123x123
see table a . 123
r e f e r e n c e s
e c o l o g i c a l m o d e l l i n g 123 123 123 ( 123 123 123 123 ) 123
austin , m . p . , 123
spatial prediction of species distribution : an
interface between ecological theory and statistical modelling .
123 , 123
austin , m . p . , nicholls , a . o . , margules , c . r . , 123
measurement of
the realized qualitative niche : environmental niches of ve eucalypt species .
monogr .
123 , 123
austin , m . p . , belbin , l . , meyers , j . a . , doherty , m . d . , luoto , m .
evaluation of statistical models used for predicting plant species distributions : role of articial data and theory , this
borchers , d . l . , buckland , s . t . , priede , i . g . , ahmadi , s . , 123
improving the precision of the daily egg production method using generalized additive models
breiman , l . , friedman , j . h . , olshen , r . a . , stone , c . j . , 123
classication and regression trees .
wadsworth and brooks / cole , monterey , ca , 123 pp .
edwards jr . , t . c . , cutler , d . r . , zimmermann , n . e . , geiser , l . ,
moisen , g . g .
effects of sample survey design on the accuracy of classication tree models in species distribution models ,
efron , b . , tibshirani , r . j . , 123
improvements on cross - validation :
the 123+ bootstrap method .
123 , 123
elith , j . , 123
predicting the distribution of plants .
thesis .
the university of melbourne , melbourne , 123 pp .
elith , j . , burgman , m . a . , 123
predictions and their validation : rare plants in the central highlands , victoria , australia .
in : scott , j . m . , et al .
( eds . ) , predicting species occurrences : issues of accuracy and scale .
island press , covelo , ca , pp .
123
ferrier , s . , watson , g . , pearce , j . , drielsma , m . , 123
extended
statistical approaches to modelling spatial pattern in biodiversity : the north - east new south wales experience .
species - level modelling .
biodivers .
conserv .
123 , 123
fielding , a . h . , bell , j . f . , 123
a review of methods for the
assessment of prediction errors in conservation presence / absence models .
environ .
conserv .
123 , 123
friedman , j . h . , 123
multivariate adaptive regression splines .
123 , 123 ( with discussion ) .
friedman , j . h . , meulman , j . j . , 123
multiple additive regression
trees with application in epidemiology
gregr , e . j . , trites , a . w . , 123
predictions of critical habitat for
whale species in the waters of coastal british colombia .
123 , 123
guisan , a . , weiss , s . b . , weiss , a . d . , 123
glm versus cca spatial
modelling of plant species distribution .
plant ecol
guisan , a . , zimmermann , n . e . , 123
predictive habitat
distribution models in ecology .
123 , 123
hastie , t . , tibshirani , r . j . , 123
generalized additive models .
monographs on statistics and applied probability , vol .
chapman and hall , london , 123 pp .
hastie , t . , tibshirani , r . j . , 123
discriminant analysis by gaussian mixtures .
b ) 123 , 123
hastie , t . , tibshirani , r . , friedman , j . h . , 123
the elements of statistical learning : data mining , inference , and prediction .
springer series in statistics .
springer - verlag , new york , 123
leathwick , j . r . , 123
are new zealands nothofagus species in equilibrium with their environment ? j .
123 , 123
leathwick , j . r . , austin , m . p . , 123
competitive interactions
between tree species in new zealands old - growth indigenous forests .
ecology 123 , 123
leathwick , j . r . , rowe , d . , richardson , j . , elith , j . , hastie , t . , 123
using multivariate adaptive regression splines to predict the distributions of new zealands freshwater diadromous sh .
freshwater biol .
123 , 123
lek , s . , delacoste , m . , baran , p . , dimopoulos , i . , lauga , j . ,
aulagnier , s . , 123
applications of neural networks to modelling nonlinear relationships in ecology
mccullagh , p . , nelder , j . a . , 123
generalized linear models .
monographs on statistics and applied probability .
chapman and hall , london , 123 pp .
mcdowall , r . m . , 123
driven by diadromy : its role in the
historical and ecological biogeography of the new zealand freshwater sh fauna .
123 ( suppl . ) , 123
mcdowall , r . m . , richardson , j . , 123
the new zealand
freshwater fish survey , a guide to input and output , vol .
new zealand ministry of agriculture and fisheries , fisheries research division information leaet , pp
moisen , g . g . , frescino , t . s . , 123
comparing ve modelling
techniques for predicting forest characteristics .
model .
moisen , g . g . , freeman , e . , blackard , j . , frescino , t . , zimmermann , n . e . , edwards jr . , t . c .
predicting tree species presence in utah : a comparison of stochastic gradient boosting , generalized additive models , and tree - based methods , this issue .
mu noz , j . , fellicsimo , a . m . , 123
comparison of statistical
methods commonly used in predictive modelling
olden , j . d . , jackson , d . a . , 123
fishhabitat relationships in
lakes : gaining predictive and explanatory insight by using articial neural networks .
123 , 123
olden , j . d . , jackson , d . a . , 123
a comparison of statistical
approaches for modelling sh species distributions .
freshwater biol .
123 , 123
pereira , j . m . c . , itami , r . m . , 123
gis - based modelling using
logistic multiple regression : a case study of the mt graham red squirrel .
photogramm .
remote sensing 123 ,
r development core team , 123
r : a language and environment
for statistical computing .
r foundation for statistical computing , vienna , austria , isbn 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 ,
ripley , b . d . , 123
pattern recognition and neural networks .
cambridge university press , cambridge .
steyerberg , e . w . , harrell jr . , f . e . , borsboom , g . j . j . m . , eijkemans ,
m . j . c . , vergouwe , y . , habbema , j . d . f . , 123
internal validation of predictive models : efciency of some procedures for logistic regression analysis .
epidemiol .
123 , 123
ter braak , c . j . f . , 123
the analysis of vegetationenvironment
relationships by canonical correspondence analysis .
vegetatio
thomson , j . r . , fleishman , e . , macnally , r . , dobkin , d . s . , 123
inuence of the temporal resolution of data on the success of indicator species models of species richness across multiple taxonomic groups .
conserv .
123 , 123
wintle , b . a . , elith , j . , potts , j . , 123
fauna habitat modelling and mapping in an urbanising environment; a case study in the lower hunter central coast region of nsw
yee , t . w . , mitchell , n . d . , 123
generalized additive models in
plant ecology .
123 , 123
ysebaert , t . , meire , p . , herman , p . m . j . , verbeek , h . , 123
macrobenthic species response surfaces along estuarine gradients : prediction by logistic regression .
123 , 123
