understanding geographical variation in biological patterns and the processes that give rise to them has long been a central problem in ecology ( e . g .
levin , 123; buckland & elston , 123; lawton , 123; scott , heglund & morrison , 123 ) .
while early descriptive
123 blackwell publishing ltd
studies of such patterns were driven largely by scientic curiosity , the growing recognition of our urgent need to conserve both species and commu - nities is now driving an increased demand for detailed , predictive knowledge of relationships be - tween environment and the distributions of biota ( e . g .
ferrier et al . , 123; olden , 123 ) .
during the last decade , statistical modelling has become increasingly popular for analysing such patterns ( see review by guisan & zimmerman , 123 ) , typically for relating the abundance or occurrence of a species to some set of environmental and / or geographic predictors .
it is now used for purposes ranging from the testing of ecological hypotheses ( e . g .
austin , 123 ) or processes ( leathwick & austin , 123 ) to the prediction of species distributions across geographically extensive areas for conservation ( e . g .
gregr & trites , 123; elith & burgman , 123 ) and / or resource management ( e . g .
borchers et al . , 123 ) .
while statistical modelling has perhaps been applied less in studies of freshwater biota than in terrestrial and marine settings , several recent analyses have used articial neural nets ( e . g .
ripley , 123 ) to relate the distributions of sh species to environment ( e . g .
lek et al . , 123; brosse & lek , 123; olden & jackson , 123 ) .
in two such studies , neural nets were used to simultaneously predict the distributions of multiple species using a single analytical model ( olden , 123; joy & death , 123 ) .
however , although neural nets allow tting of non - linear relationships between species and their predictors , their degree of automation and black - box character allow minimal control over model tting ( venables & ripley , 123 ) , and they are prone to becoming computationally intractable if large numbers of predictors are used ( e . g .
moisen & frescino , 123; friedman & meulman , 123 ) .
more limited use has been made in freshwater studies of generalised additive models ( gam; hastie & tibshirani , 123 ) , a technique that is widely applied in both terrestrial ( guisan & zimmerman , 123 ) and marine environments ( e . g .
gregr & trites , 123 ) .
in several european studies , gam have been used to analyse the distributions of freshwater macrophytes ( lehmann , 123; schmieder & lehmann , 123 ) , benthic macro - invertebrates ( castella et al . , 123 ) , and sh ( brosse & lek , 123 ) .
in this study , we use an alternative technique , multivariate adaptive regression splines friedman , 123 ) , to analyse the environmental rela -
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
new zealand diadromous sh distributions
tionships of fteen diadromous sh species using distributional data from new zealand rivers and streams .
mars is capable of tting complex , non - linear relationships between species and predictors , and in one of its implementations can be used to t a model describing relationships between multiple species and their environment ( hastie & tibshirani , 123 ) .
in a study of the comparative performance of different modelling techniques using the same data as in this study ( j .
leathwick , j .
elith & t .
hastie , unpublished data ) , a mars multi - species analysis gave comparable performance to models tted in - dividually ( i . e .
species by species ) using both mars and gam .
such multi - species models may offer advantages by their identication of a set of environ - mental predictors that best recover overall variation in species composition ( olden , 123 ) .
diadromous sh comprise a highly distinctive component of new zealands indigenous freshwater fauna ( mcdowall , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the majority are from the families galaxiidae ( ve species ) and eleo - tridae ( four species ) , with three from the anguillidae , two from the retropinnidae , and one each from the geotriidae , pinguipedidae , and pleuronectidae .
most of these species spend the majority of their lifespan in fresh water , rather than in the sea .
most are widely distributed in new zealand , including on its offshore islands , and a number also have a wider regional distribution , including on islands in the pacic , and in australian and south american fresh waters .
previ - ous analyses of new zealands freshwater sh fauna , including their relationships with environment , can be found , for example , in minns ( 123 ) and jowett & richardson ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
joy & death ( 123 ) present results of an analysis of sh : environment relationships in one region of new zealand using neural nets , and broad et al .
( 123 ) describe a logistic regression model for one diadromous species at a
fish distribution data
fish distribution data were drawn from the new zealand freshwater fish database ( mcdowall & richardson , 123 , http : / / www . niwa . co . nz / services / nzffd / ) , which now holds sh distribution records for approximately 123 123 sites throughout new zealand .
leathwick et al .
a subset of 123 records was selected for this analysis by including only sites sampled after january 123 , and for which all species were identied ( fig .
repeated samples from the same site were treated as independent records .
we also excluded sites from tidal rivers , lakes or other still waters , sites sampled using methods appropriate for only some species or life stages ( e . g .
whitebait nets , plankton nets , diving or spotlighting ) , and sites upstream from signicant obstructions such as dams , large culverts or impass - able cascades or waterfalls that are likely to impede passage by diadromous sh .
most sites selected for analysis were sampled by electric shing ( 123% ) , but a variety of other techniques were also used including nets of various construction ( 123% ) , and traps ( 123% ) , some of which were baited .
samples from smaller
123 sample sites from the new zealand freshwater fish database used in the analysis ( open circles ) .
only rivers with an ) 123 are shown .
those shown in light annual mean ow >123 m123 s grey were excluded from the analysis because of known signi - cant downstream obstructions to sh migration to / from the
rivers and streams greatly outnumber those from larger rivers , in part reecting the reduced effective - ness of techniques such as electric shing in the latter ( minns , 123 ) .
although records of sh abundances are available for many sites , all data were converted to presence / absence form for this analysis because of difculties in correcting for differing catch rates for different capture methods and / or variation in the area shed .
this paper deals with these observations as records of occurrence , although strictly speaking they are records of capture .
we recognise the potential for confounding between detectability , capture meth - od , and environmental relationships , but are generally the main trends we model reect environmental effects on occurrence .
a further step would be to include detectability in the models ( e . g .
mackenzie et al . , 123 ) , but this is a complex under -
data were extracted for 123 diadromous species ( table 123 ) that occurred in the dataset with a capture frequency of 123% or above .
the anguillids and rhombosolea retiaria are catadromous , whereas geotria australis and some retropinnid stocks are anadromous .
the remaining species are amphidromous , meaning that adults remain resident in freshwater , but larval sh are carried out to sea where they spend a short period before migrating back to freshwater to grow to adulthood .
the scope of freshwater habitat accessible
table 123 fish species included in the analysis , and their preval - ence , i . e .
the proportion of sample sites at which they were
angaus anguilla australis angdie a .
dieffenbachii galarg galaxias argenteus galbre g .
brevipinnis galmac g .
maculatus galpos g .
postvectis
gu nther 123
gobgob g .
gobioides valenciennes 123 123 gobhub g .
hubbsi gobhut g .
huttoni geoaus geotria australis chefos cheimarrichthys fosteri haast 123
retropinna retropinna richardson 123
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
to amphidromous species is therefore inuenced by their ability to migrate upriver .
our selection of environmental predictors for this analysis reected our view that models are more likely to be robust when predictor variables have strong functional relevance to the physiological and behavioural attributes of the species whose distribu - tions are being analysed ( austin , 123 ) .
here , we combined a conceptual model of environmental fac - tors driving variation in freshwater ecosystems ( biggs et al . , 123 ) with knowledge of the migratory beha - viour of diadromous sh , to identify a set of predic - tors that are likely to have strong functional links with their distributions ( rowe , 123 ) .
for example , there is often a correlation between elevation and sh distri - butions , but water temperatures and / or downstream slopes or falls that hinder upstream passage are more likely to be the functional variables underlying this relationship , and were used in this study .
the predictors we used can be divided into factors describing the character of the river segment within which the sampling site was located , downstream factors affecting the ability of diadromous sh to migrate from the sea to that river segment , and
new zealand diadromous sh distributions
upstream / catchment - scale factors affecting environ - mental conditions at the sampling site .
as the mod - elling methods used are potentially sensitive to correlated variables , the nal set of candidate varia - bles was restricted to those with pair - wise correlations of <123 , with two variables normalised ( see below ) to reduce their correlation with other variables .
because of the limited and sometimes inconsistent nature of the environmental data collected at the time of sh capture , all environmental predictors were extracted from two broader scale descriptions of new zealands rivers and streams .
the rst of these was a controlling - factors classication of new zealand riv - ers and streams , the river environments classica - tion ( snelder & biggs , 123 ) , while the second consisted of an expanded set of environmental descriptors currently being prepared to enable the development of a comprehensive multivariate classi - cation of new zealands rivers and streams ( t .
snelder , niwa , new zealand , pers .
comm . ) .
using location data recorded at the time of sampling , all sites were linked to the river - segment in which sampling occurred , using a geographic information system ( gis ) - based spatial database containing all the required environmental variables , and from which the relevant data were subsequently extracted .
river segments consisted of a section of a river or stream
table 123 environmental predictors used to analyse sh occurrence
segment scale predictors
segjant summer air temperature ( c ) segtseas winter air temperature ( c ) , normalised with respect to segjant see text segflow segment ow ( m123 sec segshade riparian shade ( proportion ) segslope segment slope ( ) , square - root transformed
) 123 ) , fourth root transformed
dsdist distance to coast ( km ) dsaveslope downstream average slope ( ) dsmaxslope maximum downstream slope ( )
upstream / catchment scale predictors
usavgtnorm average temperature ( c ) normalised with respect to segjant usraindays days / month with rain greater than 123 mm usslope average slope in the upstream catchment ( ) usindigforest area with indigenous forest ( proportion ) usphos average phosphorus concentration of underlying rocks , 123 very low to 123 very high uscalc average calcium concentration of underlying rocks , 123 very low to 123 very high ushard average hardness of underlying rocks , 123 very low to 123 very high uspeat area of peat ( proportion ) uslake area of lake ( proportion )
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 , ( ) 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 )
123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 )
) 123 ( ) 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 ) 123 ( 123 to 123 )
leathwick et al .
of variable length extending upstream from any river junction to either the next upstream junction , or to a point where the stream was no longer recognisable at a mapping scale of 123 : 123 123
segments averaged approximately 123 m in length , with a range from 123 to 123 km .
predictors relevant to the river segment in which sampling occurred ( table 123 ) describe the average january ( mid - summer ) air temperature ( segjant ) , seasonal variation in air temperature ( segtseas ) , the stream ow ( segflow ) , the degree of riparian shading ( segshade ) , and the segment slope or gradient ( seg - slope ) .
although we explored the estimation of average water temperatures for each segment , we had insufcient data to develop fully and verify such an approach .
we therefore used estimates of air temperature in both summer and winter , acknowled - ging that while shaded rivers and streams are likely to remain substantially in equilibrium with air temper - atures , more open waters are likely to have higher temperatures because of heating by solar radiation , particularly in summer ( rutherford et al . , 123 ) .
both sets of temperature estimates were derived from thin - plate splines tted to meteorological station data ( leathwick & stephens , 123 ) .
because the summer and winter temperatures were so highly correlated , the winter estimates were normalised to create a seasonality index , i . e .
segtseas w w
where w is the winter temperature associated with a particular segment , w is the average winter tempera - ture across all segments , rw is the standard deviation of the winter temperature estimates , s is the summer temperature , and so on .
values indicate the deviation of winter temperatures ( c ) from the value expected given the summer temperature , i . e .
negative values indicate strong seasonal variation and positive values indicate more muted seasonal variation .
estimates of mean ow ( segflow ) for each river segment were derived by summing estimates of the excess of average rainfall over average evaporation for cells occurring in a 123 m resolution grid in the upstream catchment .
because these values were highly skewed ( samples from small
streams are much more common than those from large rivers ) , values were subject to a fourth root transformation , after which the values can be expec - ted to be linearly related to variation in water velocity ( jowett , 123 ) .
the degree of riparian shade for each segment ( segshade ) was calculated by rst overlaying a satellite image - based , digital description of new zealands land cover ( land cover database ministry for the environment , wellington ) over the river network and calculating the relative propor - tions of different vegetation classes ( i . e .
native forest , exotic forest , scrub , etc . ) occurring within 123 m alongside each river segment .
shading was then estimated for each stream segment based on its average width ( m ) , and the riparian vegetation cover and its estimated height ( m ) as follows .
the average width of the stream or river channel in metres was 123 average annual ow123 ( i .
jowett , niwa , n . z . , pers .
comm . ) , and the total riverbed width was estimated as channel width / 123 ( davies - colley & quinn , 123 ) .
as no nation - wide mapping of vegetation canopy heights was available , we esti - mated these from available descriptions of vegetation structure and summer temperatures , with which they are closely linked .
the potential height of most native vegetation was estimated from the january air temperature using the relation - ship canopy height ) 123 + ( 123 jantemp ) ) ( 123 jantemp123 ) , based on a regression tted to vegetation prole data collated in wardle ( 123 ) .
predicted canopy heights , assuming mature veget - ation , ranged from approximately 123 m on warm lowland sites to 123 m at approximately 123 c ( treeline ) .
exotic forest was allocated a canopy height equal to half that of native forest , assuming an approximately even mix of stand ages from recently planted through to mature , and scrub was allocated a canopy height of 123 times the expected mature forest height .
canopy heights were xed at a nominal height of 123 m for coastal dune and wetland vegetation , and 123 m for pasture and tussock grass - land .
following davies - colley & rutherford , 123 , shading under diffuse light conditions was then estimated as cos123u , where u is the angle from the river centre line to the top of the adjacent canopy .
all vegetation was assumed to have a density of 123% so that shading values range from 123 ( unshaded ) to 123 in the most heavily shaded reaches .
segment slopes
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
( segslope ) were computed from the difference in the elevation at both ends of the segment , along with the length , with the required values extracted from the gis database .
three predictors were used to describe variation in factors that inuence the ability of diadromous sh species to move to a particular river segment from the sea .
the distance to the coast ( dsdist ) was calculated from the gis database as the sum of the lengths of the individual river segments located between the down - stream end of a particular segment and the coast .
the average downstream slope ( dsaveslope ) was then calculated from the estimated distance to the coast and the elevation at the downstream end of each river segment .
finally , the maximum downstream slope ( dsmaxslope ) was calculated by intersecting all downstream river segments with a 123 m resolution grid describing slopes , and nding the maximum intersected value .
values for this predictor were generally much higher than for the average down - stream slope , reecting the local occurrence of fea - tures such as rapids or cascades .
upstream , catchment - scale predictors were computed by combining the gis database with various gridded environmental data layers , and with all mean catch - ment values calculated by weighting values for each grid cell by the contribution of that cell to river ow .
two variables were used to describe upstream cli - matic conditions , i . e .
the average mean annual tem - perature ( usavgtnorm ) and the average number of days per month when rainfall exceeded 123 mm ( usraindays ) .
as the rst of these was highly correlated with the segment - scale january air tem - perature , we normalised it with respect to january air temperature ( as described for segtseas above ) .
neg - ative values indicate segments in which the upstream catchment experiences colder conditions than expec - ted given the summer temperature occurring in the segment , and are typically rivers and streams with montane headwaters .
positive values indicate seg - ments in which the catchment experiences warmer conditions than expected from the segment summer temperature .
estimates for the catchment of
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
new zealand diadromous sh distributions
number of days per month on which rainfall exceeds 123 mm and the average upstream slope ( usslope ) provide an estimate of the likely hydrological noisi - ness or variability in ow of a river segment ( e . g .
jowett & duncan , 123 ) .
variation in the amount of upstream indigenous forest ( usindigforest ) is likely to have a complex inuence on both ow and water characteristics , with high peak ows more likely to be buffered in forested catchments with a high capacity for canopy interception and rainfall storage ( e . g .
blake , 123 ) .
in forested catchments , water tempera - tures are also likely to be lower because of the reduced heating through solar radiation ( rutherford et al . , 123 ) , and woody debris is likely to provide more
the effect of catchment rock type on river charac - teristics is also complex .
here , we use three variables to describe variation in the physical and chemical character of underlying rocks , i . e .
their concentra - tions of phosphorus ( usphos ) and calcium ( uscalc ) , and their induration or physical resistance to weath - ering ( ushard ) ( see leathwick et al . , 123 ) .
although we are unaware of any studies that link phosphorus availability and variation in sh assemblages in new zealand rivers and streams , terrestrial systems in new zealand are most nutrient - limited by the availability of phosphorus , and phosphorus is an important macro - nutrient for aquatic organisms ( e . g .
wetzel , 123 ) .
the amount of calcium in catchment rocks is likely to inuence both water chemistry
123 comparison of responses tted for galaxias fasciatus ( solid line ) , anguilla dieffenbachii ( dotted line ) , and galaxias brevipinnis ( dashed line ) in relation to segment january air temperature ( segjant ) .
knots are tted at values of 123 , 123 and 123 .
leathwick et al .
( close & davies - colley , 123 ) and the composition of biological communities ( e . g .
wetzel , 123 ) .
variation in the hardness of different rock substrates has important effects on ow variability , reecting dif - ferences in their water storage and transmissivity ( jowett & duncan , 123 ) .
along with rainfall and tectonic activity , it also affects both the magnitude of river sediment loads , and their particle size distribu - tion ( hicks , quinn & trustrum , 123 ) , and this in turn can affect sh abundance ( richardson & jowett , 123 ) .
estimates of the extent of a catchment occupied by lakes ( uslake ) or peat ( uspeat ) indicate the degree of buffering of river ows , while the occurrence of peat also indicates the current and historic distribution of wetlands that provides habitat for particular species .
mars is a technique in which non - linear responses between a species and an environmental predictor are described by a series of linear segments of differing slope ( e . g .
123 ) , each of which is tted using a basis function ( see appendix , and hastie , tibshirani & friedman , 123 ) .
breaks between segments are de - ned by a knot in a model that initially over - ts the data , and which is then simplied using a back - wards / forwards stepwise cross - validation procedure to identify terms to be retained in the nal model .
all mars models were tted in r ( r development core team , 123 ) using functions contained in the mda library ( hastie & tibshirani , 123 ) .
as these functions currently only allow models to be tted assuming ordinary least squares , we analysed our presence / absence data by tting an initial mars model , extracting its basis functions , and then tting a generalised linear model ( glm; mccullagh & nelder , 123 ) that related species occurrence to these , assum - ing a binomial error distribution .
this latter step insures that values of the response variable are constrained between 123 and 123 in all other respects the model is essentially a mars model .
in addition , we utilised an option in the mda implementation of mars that allows simultaneous analysis of multiple species by identifying a common set of basis func - tions , with knots ( and therefore variables ) selected according to their improvement in predictive power of the model , averaged across all species ( appendix ) .
separate glm models were then used to model the
occurrence of each species in relation to these basis functions , and the tted regression coefcients were extracted for subsequent prediction of species distri - butions in a gis ( see below ) .
indicates the ability of a model
model performance for each species was assessed using the area under the receiver operating charac - teristic curve ( roc; e . g .
fielding & bell , 123 ) , a discriminate between sites where a species is present , versus those where it is absent .
a score of 123 indicates that a model has no discriminatory ability , while a score of 123 indicates that presences and absences are perfectly discriminated .
the area under the roc curve can be interpreted as indicating the probability that , when a presence site and an absence site are drawn at random from the population , the rst will have a higher predicted probability than the second .
roc areas were calculated using a bootstrap proce - dure that evaluates the performance of a model when predictions are made to omitted portions of the data set ( see appendix and efron & tibshirani , 123 , 123 ) , providing a robust method for assessing predictive performance at new sites .
indicated by these various models was complicated by the uneven distribution of sample points in the multidimensional space dened by the predictor variables .
this largely reects the complex patterns of correlation between variables , such that many combinations of environment do not occur in the real world ( e . g .
large rivers at high elevation ) .
in this setting , consideration of the tted model func - tions in isolation from the underlying data can lead to erroneous conclusions being drawn about species : environment relationships .
given the relatively com - prehensive sampling by our database of both geo - graphic and environmental space , we therefore based our summaries of the preferred environment for each species on visual interpretation of the tted probabilities of occurrence .
these assessments were then compared with probabilities predicted from each species regression for the entire river network , including river and stream segments not represen - ted by sample points .
the latter was accomplished by exporting a tabular summary of models from r , which was then imported into a proprietary gis ( arcview , esri , ca , usa ) where an avenue script was used to calculate tted probabilities for each river segment .
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
table 123 summary of contributions of predictors to the mars
new zealand diadromous sh distributions
table entries indicate the mean change in residual deviance when dropping that variable from nal models , averaged across all species nf indicates variables that were not included as signicant terms by the mars analysis .
table 123 deviance explained and discriminatory power of sta - tistical models relating species presence / absence to environ - ment for fteen species
the deviance explained indicates the reduction in deviance for each species compared with a null model , with the percentage of the total deviance explained shown in brackets .
all regressions were tted using 123 degrees of freedom .
model discrimination was assessed using the area under the receiver operator char - acteristic curve ( roc ) estimated by bootstrap re - sampling .
standard errors are shown in brackets .
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
examination of the marginal changes in deviance when dropping individual predictors from the var - ious nal models ( table 123 ) indicated that a relatively small set of predictors plays a dominant role in explaining variation in the probability of occurrence for most diadromous sh species .
these included correlates or drivers of key functional aspects of ( segjant ) , distance from the sea ( dsdist ) , stream size ( segflow ) , and catchment - scale drivers of variation in water temperature and ow variability ( i . e .
usavgt , usslope and usraindays ) .
the rst two of these variables ( segjant and dsdist ) had nearly twice the explanatory power of any of the other variables , and four variables ( segslope , uscalc , ushard and us - peat ) were not selected by the nal model because of their failure to improve signicantly its predictive performance at a community level .
roc scores computed using bootstrap re - sampling to simulate model performance with independent data varied between 123 and 123 ( table 123 ) .
species of low prevalence ( e . g .
retiaria , gobiomorphus gobioides ) generally had higher roc scores than species occur - ring at a high proportion of sites , probably reecting the greater ease with which the regression models for species of restricted range correctly identied the extensive environments from which they were absent .
examination of probabilities tted for the individ - ual species by the mars analysis indicated that there were marked differences among the environments where they most frequently occurred .
for example , species varied widely in the distances that penetrate upstream from the coast ( fig .
123a ) , with species such as g .
gobioides and r .
retiaria predicted to occur only in relatively coastal river segments .
by contrast , species such as galaxias fasciatus , retropinna retropinna , gobiomorphus cotidianus , anguilla australis , galaxias brevipinnis , anguilla dieffenbachii and cheimar - richthys fosteri , although occurring most frequently at sites located within 123 km or less of the coast , also penetrate inland for considerable distances .
moderate levels of occurrence were predicted for these species at sites 123 km inland or more .
however , the degree to which different species penetrate inland is also inuenced by river slope , with both the average and maximum downstream slope important for many
leathwick et al .
species .
for example , species such as r .
retiaria , r .
retropinna , galaxias argenteus and g .
maculatus occurred most frequently in river and streams with minimal gradients ( fig .
123b ) , with g .
maculatus most tolerant of higher stream gradients .
by contrast , g .
fasciatus , g .
brevipinnis , g .
postvectis and gobiomorphus huttoni occurred most frequently in relatively high gradient streams .
similar patterns were evident in relation to maximum downstream slopes , with g .
brevipinnis and a .
dieffenbachii the two species most capable of passing major stream obstacles .
strong sorting was also apparent in the distribu - tions of species in relation to the summer temperature gradient ( fig .
123c ) , with optima distributed over a range of nearly 123 c .
although all fteen species were predicted to occur with at least moderate frequency ( probabilities of occurrence >123 ) in rivers and streams with warm summer temperatures ( 123 c or more ) , species varied widely in the range of temperatures over which they frequently occurred , with r .
retro - pinna occupying the narrowest range and g .
huttoni the widest .
similar sorting occurred in relation to average temperatures in the upstream catchment ( fig .
123d ) , with species such as g .
argenteus , g .
post - vectis and a .
australis most frequent in river segments in which the contributing catchments had warmer temperatures than expected , while species such as g .
brevipinnis , g .
cotidianus , r .
retiaria and c .
occurred most frequently in river segments in which the upstream catchments were typied by cool
although sorting of tted values in relation to river ow was a little more muted ( fig .
123e ) , there was a marked contrast between species whose preferred habitat is large rivers ( gobiomorphus hubbsi , r .
retiaria and c .
fosteri ) , versus the remainder that have a strong preference for small to moderate sized streams and rivers .
note however , that some of these latter species also occurred with moderate frequency in larger rivers .
stream riparian shade is an important factor for some species ( fig .
123f ) , more so for those that occur in smaller streams than in large rivers , where stream - bank vegetation is less able to provide substantial shade .
although most species may occur in streams with widely varying degrees of riparian shade , the sh fauna were segregated into two groups; species with a marked preference for shaded streams , and those more frequent in streams with little riparian
the inuence of wider , catchment - scale drivers of variability in river - ow on sh distribution is illus - trated by variation in tted values in relation to the average upstream catchment slope ( fig .
species typical of catchments having a predominance of low i . e .
mostly streams and smaller rivers in lowland areas , include g .
argenteus and a .
australis , while at the opposite extreme , species such as g .
brevipinnis , c .
fosteri , g .
hubbsi and g .
huttoni occur frequently in catchments having a sizeable proportion of steeper slopes , usually in steep hill - country or mountainous areas .
brevipinnis occurred at sites where upstream slopes were highest , and this reects its mainly inland , high altitude distribution .
similarly , species such r .
retiaria , g .
cotidianus , and a .
australis , although widespread , were most frequent in river segments in which the contributing catchments had a relatively low frequency of high rainfall days , i . e .
low ood environments that are susceptible to summer drought ( fig .
123h ) , whereas g .
argenteus , g .
brevipinnis and g .
postvectis occurred most frequently in environments where high rainfall days are a regular occurrence and ows are more reliable through the year .
consideration of relationships between tted prob - abilities and the predictors that make a lower contri - bution to the explanation of deviance ( variables ranked 123 or lower in table 123 ) also revealed some interesting patterns .
for example , the majority of species were most likely to occur in environments with only moderate seasonal variation in temperature ( table 123 ) , with only two species , c .
fosteri and r .
retiaria , occurring most frequently in rivers with strong seasonal variation in temperature .
most species are also more common in rivers that have minimal lake buffering , with a .
dieffenbachii and g .
cotidianus the only species to show a positive preference for rivers with substantial lake inuence .
only a few species showed strong patterns of occurrence in relation to either usindigforest or usphos with g .
brevipinnis and g .
postvectis more likely in catchments with extensive native forest cover and r .
retiaria more common in rivers with non - forested catchments .
probabilities of occurrence calculated within arc - view from the mars analysis and using environ - mental data for the entire river network are shown for g .
brevipinnis and g .
huttoni for part of the western north island ( fig .
highest probabilities of occur - rence for g .
brevipinnis are predicted for small , inland
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
distance to coast ( km )
average downstream slope ( )
new zealand diadromous sh distributions
january air temperature ( c )
upstream average temperature ( c )
123 distributions of species in relation to major environmental predictors ( ah ) as indicated by tted probabilities of occurrence from the mars community model .
values at which tted probabilities reach a maximum are shown for each environmental variable by a diamond , and the range over which tted values exceed 123 are indicated by horizontal lines .
species are sorted by their indicated optima .
codes for species consist of the rst three letters of the generic and specic names as listed in table 123
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
leathwick et al .
river flow ( 123th root )
upstream average slope ( )
( h ) upstream rain days >123 ( mm month123 )
123 ( continued )
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
table 123 species showing signicant variation in their tted probabilities in relation to less important environmental predictors
new zealand diadromous sh distributions
rhombosolea retiaria , cheimarrichthys fosteri
anguilla australis , galaxias argenteus , galaxias brevipinnis , galaxias fasciatus , galaxias maculatus , galaxias postvectis , gobiomorphus gobioides , gobiomorphus hubbsi , cheimarrichthys fosteri , rhombosolea retiaria , galaxias argenteus , gobiomorphus hubbsi ,
anguilla australis , anguilla dieffenbachii , galaxias argenteus , galaxias brevipinnis , galaxias fasciatus , galaxias maculatus , galaxias postvectis , gobiomorphus cotidianus , gobiomorphus gobioides , gobiomorphus hubbsi , gobiomorphus huttoni , retropinna retropinna anguilla dieffenbachii , gobiomorphus cotidianus
galaxias brevipinnis , galaxias postvectis
species are listed whose tted values vary by 123% or more with progression along the environmental predictors , and are separated into those showing negative versus positive responses .
streams at high elevation , and with moderate to high downstream slopes .
by contrast , g .
huttoni is predic - ted to occur most frequently in small to moderate sized coastal streams and rivers , with higher proba - bilities predicted for those with good riparian shade .
finally , results of an analysis in which a factor variable indicating the capture method was added to the mars individual models ( table 123 ) , showed that there were marked differences for some species in their probabilities of capture between different sampling methods , with electric shing generally the most effective technique for most spe - cies .
differences were most signicant for the two eel species , with addition of capture method providing a in model discrimination , particularly for a .
dieffenbachii .
modest improvements in model discrimination also occurred for g .
australis and c .
fosteri .
results from this analysis highlight the insights to be gained from the use of statistical modelling to relate data describing species distributions to a functionally relevant set of environmental predictors .
in part the results reect the comprehensive nature of the data available , i . e .
an extensive set of sh distributional data collected using specied sampling procedures , as well as a comprehensive set of environmental predic - tors .
at one level , results provide a robust description of the distributions of species and their sorting in
123 blackwell publishing ltd , freshwater biology , 123 , 123
environmental space ( as in austin & smith , 123 ) , this information providing an important underpinning for individual species management ( e . g .
levin , 123 ) .
however , the availability of comprehensive environ - mental data for the entire river network also enabled the prediction of species occurrences throughout new zealand , including for many rivers and streams for which no species sampling has been carried out .
such information is critical conservation value of rivers , providing both a frame - work for the robust identication of representative sites for protection ( e . g .
scott et al . , 123; pressey et al . , 123 ) , and a context for interpreting results from ongoing monitoring ( oberdorff et al . , 123; joy & death , 123; schmieder & lehmann , 123 ) .
to the assessment of
in terms of
the ecology of
