in this paper , we describe an approach for identifying pathways from gene expression and protein interaction data .
our approach is based on the assumption that many their genes exhibit a similar gene expression prole , and the protein products the genes often interact .
our approach is based on a unied probabilistic model , which is learned from the data using the em algorithm .
we present results on two saccharomyces cerevisiae gene expression data sets , combined with a binary protein interaction data set .
our results show that our approach is much more than other approaches at discovering both coherent functional groups and entire protein complexes .
keywords : probabilistic models , protein interaction , gene
cellular processes are carried out through interactions among many genes and gene products .
this activity is often organized into pathways : sets of genes that coordinate to achieve a specic task .
revealing this organization is crucial to obtaining a coherent global picture of cellular activity .
technological advances enable us to extract many different types of genomic data , including : dna se - quences , gene expression measurements , protein - protein interactions , and dna binding data .
these data provide us for the rst time with the means to get at the modular organization of the cell on a genome wide scale .
indeed , much recent work has been devoted to the analysis of these data for this purpose .
however , most of this work has been devoted to the analysis of a single type of data , using other types of data only for validation .
in this paper , we propose an integrated approach that attempts to discover pathways using both gene expression and protein - protein interaction data .
our approach is based on the assumption that many pathways exhibit two properties .
first , genes in the same
to whom correspondence should be addressed .
pathway are activated together , and thus exhibit similar gene expression proles .
second , when genes coordinate to achieve a particular task , their protein products often interact .
the asssumption that many pathways exhibit both properties is supported by the work of ge et al .
( 123 ) , that showed that genes with similar expression proles are more likely to encode interacting proteins , and by the study of jansen et al .
( 123 ) , which showed that the genes of experimentally derived protein complexes are often co -
based on this assumption , our approach searches for sets of genes that have a similar expression prole , and a signicant fraction of protein - protein interactions in the dip binary interaction data set ( xenarios et al . , 123 ) .
this unied approach has advantages over approaches that use only a single type of data .
for example , many analyses use clustering to construct groups of genes that have similar expression proles ( e . g .
alon et al . , 123; eisen et al . , 123 ) .
however , it is often hard to conclude that the resulting clusters actually correspond to pathways , both because the data is very noisy ( e . g .
due to cross hybridization or low mrna levels ) , and because similarity of expression proles is only a weak indicator for the two genes participate in the same pathway .
conversely , we can try to detect pathways by looking for groups of genes that contain many pairs of interacting genes .
once again , the reliability of these methods is low , both because the data is noisy , and because many gene products interact even when they are not part of the same pathway .
for example , in the dip binary interaction database ( xenarios et al . , 123 ) , 123 genes form a single huge connected component .
we propose an approach that combines both types of data within a single probabilistic model , based on the framework of probabilistic graphical models ( pearl , 123 ) .
our approach aims to detect groups of genes that are co - expressed , and whose products interact in the protein interaction data .
specically , we dene a probabilistic model where genes are partitioned into pathways .
the likelihood of the data is higher when genes in the same pathway have the same expression prole; it is also higher when genes that interact are in
bioinformatics 123 ( 123 ) c ( cid : 123 ) oxford university press 123; all rights reserved .
discovering molecular pathways from protein interaction and gene expression data
protein interaction data
pathway discovery procedure
gene annotations ( go )
visualization & analysis
schematic ow diagram of our proposed method .
the pre - processing step includes selecting the input gene expression and protein interaction data .
the model is then trained using em until convergence , and the resulting assignments of genes to pathways are then analyzed .
the same pathway .
the outline of our method is shown in figure 123
starting from an input gene expression and protein interaction data , we rst cluster the expression data , and create one cluster , or pathway , from each of the resulting clusters .
these clusters serve to initialize the probabilistic model .
the model is then trained to maximize the likelihood of the data , using the expectation maximization ( em ) algorithm ( dempster et al . , 123 ) .
finally , we evaluate the biological performance of the model using external data sources that were not given as input to the model .
we evaluated the ability of our method to extract path - ways from two different datasets of gene expression mea - surements combined with one binary protein interaction dataset .
a comparison of our method to methods that use either the expression data or the protein interaction data alone shows that our inferred pathways correspond much better to known functional groups and protein complexes , both of which were not given as input to any of the meth -
in this section , we present our unied probabilistic model over gene expression and protein interaction data .
our model , which is based on the framework of relational markov networks ( taskar et al . , 123 ) , denes a distribu - tion over a set of genes g = ( g123 , .
we assume that each gene g belongs to precisely one of k pathways , denoted g . c ( 123 , .
the variables gi . c are latent ( or hidden ) variables , and determining their values is one
of the main goals of our algorithm .
the model then has two components : one that models the expression data , and another that models the protein interaction data .
the two easily combine to provide a single unied model .
gene expression model we use the simple naive bayes model for the gene expression component .
in this ap - proach , the instances are divided into disjoint classes , each of which is associated with a distribution over the attributes of the instances .
the attributes are assumed to be conditionally independent given the class .
although this independence assumption is often unrealistic , this model has proven to be robust and effective for clustering in many applications ( cheeseman and stutz , 123; duda et al . , 123 ) .
in our setting , the instances are the genes g123 , .
, gn , is simply the pathway to which and the class of gi it belongs .
each instance g has m continuous - valued attributes g . e = ( g . e123 , .
, g . em ) , where g . e j rep - resents the mrna expression level measured for the gene in experiment j .
the naive bayes model denes a p ( g . c , g . e123 , .
, g . em ) = p ( g . c )
p ( g . e j | g . c ) .
the random variable g . c is distributed as a multi - c = ( 123 , .
, k ) , where p ( g . c = p ) = p; thus , each 123 p 123 and p = 123
we model each condi - tional probability distribution ( cpd ) p ( g . e j | g . c = p )
e . segal et al .
e | g . c )
g . c g . c
g . c g . c
e | g . c )
( a ) naive bayes model over 123 classes , for an expression data set with 123 expression measurements for each gene .
a multinomial distribution is associated with g . c ( shown as a histogram ) .
for each class g . c , each experiment is associated with a gaussian cpd ( shown in cpd 123 ) .
( b ) protein interaction model for a dataset with 123 genes in which the interactions are between : g123 and g123; g123 and g123; g123 and g123; and g123 and g123
shown is the resulting markov network , with its two types of potentials : i ( gi . c ) and e ( gi . c , g j . c ) .
( c ) resulting unied
using the gaussian distribution n ( pj , 123 tion of the naive bayes model is given in figure 123a .
in a pure naive bayes model , the data consists of n instances ( genes ) , each of which is sampled from this distribution .
protein interaction model our probabilistic model for protein interaction data is based on our assumption that interacting proteins are more likely to be in the same pathway .
thus , if we observe a protein - protein interaction between the protein products of two genes , the genes are likely to belong to the same pathway .
to model this assumption , we use the framework of markov networks or markov random elds ( kindeman and snell , 123 ) , very common in statistical physics , e . g .
correlations between spins of neighboring electrons .
for our purposes , it sufces to dene binary markov networks .
let v = ( v123 , .
, vn ) be a set of discrete ran - dom variables .
a binary markov network over v denes a joint distribution p ( v ) as follows .
the network is dened via an undirected graph whose nodes correspond to vari - ables in v and whose edges e represent direct probabilis - tic interaction between those variables .
each variable vi is associated with a potential i ( vi ) .
each edge ( vi v j ) is associated with a non - negative compatibility potential i , j ( vi , v j ) .
the joint distribution is then dened as p ( v123 , .
, vn ) = 123
i , j ( vi , v j ) ,
i ( vi )
where z is a normalizing constant dened so as to make the distribution sum to 123
intuitively , i ( vi ) encodes how likely the different values of vi are , ignoring interactions between the variables .
for an assignment vi , v j to vi , v j , the value i , j ( vi , v j ) species how compatible the
assignment vi , v j is : the higher the value , the more likely this pair of values is to appear together .
in the protein interaction setting , as in the work of taskar et al .
( 123 ) , the variables are the classes of the instances in the data , and the edges are dened by relationships between them .
furthermore , parameters are shared across instances , so that we only have potentials 123 ( vi ) and 123 ( vi , v j ) .
inour context , the variables v are the pathway assignments g123c , .
, gn . c of the genes in g , and the edges correspond to protein - protein interactions observed in our data set .
intuitively , an edge between gi and g j captures our basic intuition that , if gi and g j interact , they are more likely to be in the same pathway .
thus , we dene the compatibility potential 123 ( gi . c = p , g j . c = q ) such that the compatibility value for p = q is greater than the value for p ( cid : 123 ) = q .
since we do not assume any patterns over the distribution of interactions , we set all entries in which p = q to the same value .
similarly , all entries in which p ( cid : 123 ) = q are set to the same value .
due to the normalization of the distribution , what matters is only the relative magnitude of these two values .
thus , we can parameterize the interaction model using a single parameter , , such that for all ( gi g j ) e :
123 ( gi . c = p , g j . c = q ) =
we require that 123
note that when = 123 , these potentials have no effect on the distribution dened .
the larger the value of , the greater the induced distribution will be peaked around assignments in which genes that interact also belong to the same pathway .
a simple example of the protein interaction model is given in
discovering molecular pathways from protein interaction and gene expression data
given a database of protein interactions which denes the set of edges e , and the parameterizations for 123 and 123 , the markov network denes a joint distribution p ( g123c , .
, gn . c ) over assignments of genes to path - ways .
it is important to note that the assignments of different genes to pathways are not independent in this distribution : the model deliberately correlates the as - signments of related genes .
as a consequence , we cannot compute separately the pathway assignment of a single gene , and are forced to consider the distribution over the gene set as a whole .
unfortunately , this distribution is over an exponentially large space , so manipulating it exactly is intractable .
we address this issue in the next
we note that the model we propose for protein interac - tion cannot stand by itself , as the assignment that maxi - mizes the joint likelihood is degenerate : all genes are as - signed to the same pathway .
however , in our unied model that combines the protein interaction model with the ex - pression model , this degenerate assignment is no longer the most likely .
unied model our unied model integrates the models of the two subsections above .
this combination can be performed very naturally , using the pathway variables gi . c , that are common to both models .
the distribution p ( gi . c ) used in the expression model can be used as the potential 123 ( gi . c ) in the interaction model .
the remaining parametersp ( gi . e j | gi . c ) in the expression model and 123 ( gi . c , g j . c ) in the interaction modeldo not conict and can be placed in the same model .
the combined model is thus a partially - directed graph - ical model , with m + 123 random variables for each gene gi : the pathway assignment gi . c , and the expression values gi . e123 , .
, gi . em .
the variable gi . c is associ - ated with a multinomial distribution with parameters ) .
the cpd p ( g . e j c = ( c123 | g . c = p ) is a gaussian distribution n ( pj , 123 ) .
finally , each pair of genes gi , g j that interact are connected by an undirected edge , and associated with a compatibility potential 123 ( gi . c , g j . c ) , parameterized by a single parameter as in equation 123
a simple example of this combined model is given in figure 123c .
the resulting combined model denes a joint distribution over the entire set of random variables , as
p ( gi . e j | gi . c )
p ( g . c , g . e | e ) =
123 ( gi . c , g j . c )
where z is a normalizing constant that ensures that p sums to 123 , and e represents all binary interactions that exist between genes in our data .
learning the model in the previous section we presented our unied model for expression and interaction data .
in this section , we show how the parameters of this model are learned from data .
importantly , the pathway assignment variables gi . c are hidden , and are learned from data at the same time as the let g be a set of genes , and assume that we are given a dataset d that contains : for each gene gi , an expres - sion prole gi . e; and a set of binary interactions e be - tween pairs of genes gi , g j .
our goal is to learn the model parameters , which consist of : the multinomial over pathway assignments , and the means and standard devi - ations of each of the k gaussian distributions associated with each of the k m cpds p ( g . ei | g . c = p ) .
recall that the potentials over pairs of interacting genes are spec - ied by a single parameter .
here , we assume that is given and do not consider estimating its value; we discuss the choice of in the results section .
a standard approach is to nd the maximum likelihood ( ml ) parameters : the parameters that maximize the likelihood p ( d | ) .
if wehad a complete assignment to all the pathway variables , g . c , then the likelihood function would have a unique global maximum , and the ml parameters could be found easily by computing the appropriate sufcient statistics .
specically , for the pathway variables , the sufcient statistics are simply the frequencies of the different pathways : n p = the number of genes assigned to pathway p .
for the expression cpd | g . c = p ) , the sufcient statistics are the rst and second moments of the empirical distribution : n ( i : g . c= p ) gi . e j and 123 n ( i : g . c= p ) gi . e123 where gi . e j is the expression value of gene i in experiment
unfortunately , our case , of incomplete data , is substan - tially more complex .
in this case , the likelihood function has multiple local maxima , and no general method exists for nding the global maximum .
the expectation maxi - mization ( em ) algorithm ( dempster et al . , 123 ) , provides an approach for nding a local maximum of the likelihood function .
starting from an initial guess ( 123 ) for the param - eters , em iterates two steps : an e - step and an m - step .
the steps are iterated until convergence .
the e - step uses the current estimate of the parameters to compute the distribution over the hidden variables given the observed data .
in our case , we compute p ( g . c | d , ( t123 ) ) .
tocompute this distribution , we the entire partially - directed graphical model dened in equation 123 and illustrated in
run inference over
e . segal et al .
123 123 123 123
method ( cell cycle ) mcl ( cell cycle )
( a , b ) performance as a function of the potential parameter .
for protein interactions : fraction of all interactions in dip that are between genes in the same pathway .
for expression coherence : average pearson correlation between pairs of genes in the same pathway .
= 123 corresponds to a standard expression clustering model .
( a ) stress data; ( b ) cell cycle data .
( c ) comparison of expression coherence of mcl clusters ( measured as average pearson correlation between pairs of genes in the same cluster ) to our inferred pathways , where clusters were sorted by expression coherence .
figure 123c .
as we discussed , the interactions correlate the random variables associated with the different genes .
when the interaction network is nontrivial , exact infer - ence over this model is intractable .
instead , we use belief propagation ( pearl , 123 ) , an approximate inference algorithm which passes messages between neighboring nodes in the graph .
this algorithm has been shown to perform effectively for models of this type ( segal et al . , 123; taskar et al . , 123 ) .
using this posterior distribution ,
the m - step re - estimates the model parameters using the expected sufcient statistics , where the expectation is taken relative to this posterior .
letting q ( g , p ) = p ( g . c = p | the multinomial are simply n p = ( cid : 123 ) then the expected sufcient statistics for pj = ( cid : 123 ) gg q ( g , p ) .
for | g . c = p ) , the expected the gaussian cpd p ( g . e j gg q ( g , p ) g . e j , and sufcient statistics are 123 gg q ( g , p ) g . e123 j .
wecan then re - estimate the parameters by maximizing the likelihood with respect to the expected sufcient statistics : ; pj = 123 p ( cid : 123 ) =123 n p ( cid : 123 )
model learning we evaluated our method on two sac - charomyces cerevisiae gene expression datasets , one con - sisting of 123 microarrays , measuring the responses to var - ious stress conditions ( gasch et al . , 123 ) , and another consisting of 123 microarrays , measuring expression during cell cycle ( spellman et al . , 123 ) .
for the protein interac - tion data , we used the dip dataset ( xenarios et al . , 123 ) , consisting of 123 s .
cerevisiae binary protein interac - tions .
we selected only genes for which expression data was available from at least one of the datasets and that
participated in binary interactions with at least one other gene in dip .
this resulted in a gene list consisting of 123 genes , which we use in the experiments described below .
we note that 123 genes form a connected component in the interaction graph induced by dip .
we applied our method to each of the expression datasets separately , combining each with the dip in - teraction dataset .
we trained each model using em , as described in the previous section , xing the number of pathways to be learned to be 123
a successful application of em requires some reasonable initialization to the model parameters .
to initialize the model , we applied the probabilistic hierarchical clustering algorithm of ( segal et al . , 123 ) to each expression dataset , resulting in a partition of genes into 123 clusters .
we use this assignment to provide temporary values for the pathway variables g . c , and compute maximum likelihood estimates for the parameters relative to that assignment .
these parameters form the starting point for em , which was then run to
to complete the model parameterization , we need to specify , the parameter used in equation 123 to represent the strength of the preference towards assigning interacting genes to the same pathway .
we experimented with a range of values for for both data sets , measuring both the number of interactions in each pathway and the coherence of the pathways with respect to the expression proles .
we evaluated the expression coherence of a pathway as the average pearson correlation between every pair of genes that were assigned to the pathway .
as expected , increasing results in a larger number
pearson ( gi . e , g j . e ) = 123 are the mean and standard deviation , respectively , of the entries in gi . e .
gi . e , g j . e is : , where i , i
( g j . el j )
( gi . eli )
discovering molecular pathways from protein interaction and gene expression data
of interactions among genes in the same pathway ( see fig .
more surprisingly , for 123 123 and 123 123 in the stress and cell cycle models , respectively , the quality of the gene expression patterns of each pathway were identical; this is surprising , since = 123 is equivalent to completely ignoring the interaction data and is thus the same as a standard clustering model which tries only to optimize the expression score .
thus , when using = 123 and = 123 for the stress and cell cycle models , respectively , our method results in an organization into pathways that are much more consistent with the interaction data compared to an expression clustering model , while not sacricing the gene expression quality .
consequently , we chose these settings for .
wenote that the signicant decrease in the expression score for higher values of is due to the formation of a single large pathway , resulting from the domination of a high value over the expression component of the model .
for our chosen values of , we veried that
improved interaction consistency is not a result of a small number of pathways with dense interactions .
we counted the number of interactions between genes in the same pathway separately for each pathway , and compared this to the corresponding cluster from which this pathway was initialized ( as described above ) .
figure 123a , b shows that the improvement is indeed distributed among many pathways .
we also compared our results to a method that uses only the interaction data .
we used the graph clustering markov cluster algorithm ( mcl ) of enright et al .
( 123 ) .
we applied mcl to the dip data , resulting in 123 clus - ters .
to allow for a comparison with our models , we re - duced the number of clusters to 123 , by iteratively merging the two clusters whose resulting merged cluster had the lowest probability of observing its number of interactions by chance ( computed using a binomial distribution as the null model ) , until we were left with 123 clusters .
as ex - pected , since mcl only tries to optimize the interaction score , the total number of interactions between genes as - signed to the same pathway was greater for mcl ( 123 such interactions ) compared to our method ( 123 interac - tions ) .
however , the expression data does not support the organization of mcl , as can be seen in figure 123c which compares the expression score of the mcl clusters to our
evaluation we evaluated our learned models relative to a variety of external data sources , that were not used in learning the models .
the visualization and statistical analysis of the results were performed using genex - press ( available from http : / / genexpress . stanford . edu ) , a generic cluster analysis and visualization software that we developed .
we evaluated the models along several criteria : prediction of held - out
of pathways according to functional annotations , and coverage of protein complexes .
recall that our denition of a pathway is a set of genes whose protein products are more likely to interact .
we would like to test the quality of our pathways relative to this criterion .
however , it would not be surprising if our pathways contained a large number of interactions that are part of the input to our algorithm : the algorithm explicitly tries to put interacting genes in the same pathway .
we therefore evaluated predictiveness of interactions by hiding some interactions from the learning algorithm , and testing how many of these were predicted based on the remaining data .
thus , we used 123 - fold cross - validation , randomly partitioning the dip data into 123 equally sized partitions , and trained 123 different models , each on a different subset of 123 of the interaction partitions .
we then tested the predictiveness of each model on the held out data by counting the total number of held out interactions between genes assigned to the same pathway .
this number was averaged over pathways , and over the 123 models learned .
for the stress data set , there were 123 123 such interactions for our method , compared to 123 123 for expression clustering , and 123 123 for mcl .
it is not surprising that mcl performs better along this metric , as it optimizes only for interaction density , whereas our approach tries to capture both interactions and expression
both expression coherence and interaction density are only weak indicators for a pathway .
to analyze the bio - logical coherence of the inferred pathways , we computed their enrichment for annotations from the go hierar - chy ( ashburner et al . , 123 ) .
we used the s . cerevisiae go associations from sgd ( cherry et al . , 123 ) to associate each gene with the processes it participates in , and removed all annotations associated with less than 123 genes .
this resulted in 123 categories .
for each pathway and each annotation , we calculated the fraction of genes in the pathway associated with that annotation and used the hypergeometric distribution to calculate a p - value for this fraction .
we performed a bonferroni correction for multiple independent hypotheses and took p - value < 123 / n ( n = 123 ) to be signicant .
the models learned spanned a wide variety of functional categories and pathways , including energy , respiratory , transcriptional regulation , cell organization , dna replication , and protein degradation pathways .
furthermore , a comparison of the best p - values learned for each category ( fig .
123a , d ) shows that pathways learned by our model are more coherent func - tionally than the clusters learned by standard clustering .
the highly coherent categories were detected by both methods , although the coherence was still marginally better using our method .
more interesting , for the less clear cases ( negative log p - value < 123 ) , a
e . segal et al .
123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
- log ( pvalue ) for mcl
( a ) , ( b ) number of interactions between genes in pathways ( y - axis ) and in expression clustering ( x - axis ) : ( a ) stress model; ( b ) cell cycle model .
( c ) comparison of functional coherence using go : negative log p - value obtained for best pathway for each go category ( y - axis ) versus negative log p - value for corresponding mcl cluster ( x - axis ) .
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 - log ( pvalue ) for standard clustering
- log ( pvalue ) for standard clustering
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
- log ( pvalue ) for standard clustering
- log ( pvalue ) for standard clustering
123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123
complex coverage ( % )
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
complex coverage ( % )
comparison of standard clustering and the proposed method : ( a ) ( c ) stress model; ( d ) ( f ) cell cycle model .
( a , d ) comparison of functional coherence using go : negative log p - value obtained for best pathway for each go category ( y - axis ) versus negative log p - value for corresponding cluster ( x - axis ) .
( b , e ) comparison of correspondence to protein complexes : negative log p - value obtained for best pathway for each complex ( y - axis ) versus negative log p - value for corresponding cluster ( x - axis ) .
( c , f ) the degree to which entire complexes appear together in the inferred pathways : the number of complexes for which a fraction q or more of their member genes appear in the same pathway or cluster , for all possible values of q .
discovering molecular pathways from protein interaction and gene expression data
largest connected component , consisting of 123 genes , for one of the pathways identied .
nodes represent genes .
links between nodes indicate interactions in dip .
square nodes ( 123 ) correspond to genes that were also in the pathway using standard clustering .
oval nodes ( 123 ) are genes that were only in the pathway using our method .
filled nodes ( 123 ) are all the 123 cytoplasmic exosome ( rnase complex ) annotated genes in go .
unlled nodes are either annotated differently ( trm123 ) or unknown ( yhr123w ) .
large number of categories were much more signicantly enriched using our method ( see zoomed plot in gures ) .
we did a similar comparison with the clusters resulting from the graph clustering method , mcl , which only optimizes the protein interaction data ( see fig .
in the less clear range ( negative log p - value < 123 ) the results were comparable , but there were many more highly coherent categories ( negative log p - value > 123 ) enriched in our pathways ( 123 such categories ) compared to mcl ( 123 such categories ) .
among the functional groups much more enriched in our pathways were categories related to translation ( e . g .
ribosome ) , protein degradation ( e . g .
proteasome ) , transcription ( e . g .
transcription from pol i ) and dna replication .
genes in these categories interact with many genes from other categories in dip and are thus hard to isolate using mcl .
however , these categories are often co - expressed , which explains the success of our method in isolating them .
the components of many pathways are protein com - plexes .
thus , a good pathway model should assign the member genes of many of these complexes to the same pathway .
we tested whether our models exhibited this property using the recent experimental assays of gavin et al .
( 123 ) and ho et al .
( 123 ) , which assayed the members of 123 and 123 protein complexes , respectively .
we rst measured the overlap between the protein complex data and dip to verify that we can indeed treat the complex data as an independent data source .
to do so , we converted the complex data into binary interactions , by creating a binary interaction between every pair of genes that are in a complex together , and measured the overlap with the dip interactions .
only 123 are shared , out of the 123 and 123 binary interactions in the complex
and dip data , respectively .
given that the complex assays are different in nature from the dip binary interactions , and given this small overlap , we concluded that we could use the complex data as an independent measure of
to analyze whether a pathway is signicantly enriched for protein complexes , we associated each gene with the complexes to which it belongs in the complex experi - mental datasets .
for each pathway and each complex , we computed the enrichment p - value , similar to the computation done for the go annotation enrichment ( bonferroni corrected ) .
from a total of 123 complexes , 123 were signicantly enriched in at least one of the inferred pathways .
figure 123b , e compares the complex enrichment between our model and standard clustering , indicating a much higher enrichment in our models .
we also tested the degree to which entire complexes appear in the same pathway , by counting the number of complexes for which a fraction q or higher of their member genes appear in the same pathway .
figure 123c , f shows the results for varying values of q .
for example , for the stress model , there are 123 complexes for which 123% or more of their members appeared in the same pathway , compared to only 123 such complexes in the standard clustering model .
for the cell cycle model , there are 123 complexes at 123% compared to only 123 in the standard clustering model .
detailed inspection of the inferred pathways revealed many cases in which our method isolated known pathways from the dense web of dip interactions , and potentially also identied novel members of the pathway .
such was the case for pathway 123 , whose largest connected component of dip interactions had 123 genes , 123 of which are members of the cytoplasmic exosome ( rnase processing of pre - rrnas complex ) , required for the 123 to mature rrnas .
these 123 genes are all the known members of this complex , so that our approach captured the complex ( as it is currently known ) in its entirety .
one of the two remaining genes was yhr123w , an uncharacterized protein .
as yhr123w interacts with 123 proteins in the pathway , and as its expression prole is highly similar to that of the other 123 genes in the component , this may be a potential novel discovery of a new member or related member of the rnase .
we note that there were 123 additional immediate neighbors of these 123 genes in the dip interaction graph that our method did not assign to pathway 123 , since their expression proles were different than those of these 123 genes .
we checked whether methods that analyze only the ex - pression data or only the interaction data were also suc - cessful in isolating the rnase .
the expression clustering method assigned only 123 of the 123 cytoplasmic exosome to the same cluster ( see fig .
as there are many interac - tions between the 123 rnase genes , mcl also assigned all 123 to the same cluster .
however , the connected component
e . segal et al .
included 123 additional genes that are not known to be re - lated to the cytoplasmic exosome .
interestingly , mcl also included the same uncharacterized orf yhr123w as our
as another example , our method identied 123 of the 123 genes that are annotated in go as nucleus import genes , as part of a connected component of 123 genes in pathway 123
in contrast , the expression - based clustering method only had 123 of these genes in a cluster , and mcl grouped only 123 ofthese genes as part of a connected component of 123
cherry , j . m . , adler , c . , ball , c . , chervitz , s . a . , dwight , s . s . , hes - ter , e . t . , jia , y . , juvik , g . , roe , t . , schroeder , m . , weng , s .
and bot - stein , d .
( 123 ) sgd : saccharomyces genome database .
nucleic acid res . , 123 , 123
dempster , a . p . , laird , n . m .
and rubin , d . b .
( 123 ) maximum like - lihood from incomplete data via the em algorithm .
b , 123 , 123
duda , r . o . , hart , p . e .
and stork , d . g .
( 123 ) pattern classication .
wiley , new york .
eisen , m . b . , spellman , p . t . , brown , p . o .
and botstein , d .
( 123 ) cluster analysis and display of genome - wide expression patterns .
natl acad .
usa , 123 , 123
enright , a . j . , van dongen , s .
and ouzounis , c . a .
( 123 ) an efcient algorithm for large - scale detection of protein families .
nucleic acid res . , 123 , 123
eisen , m . b . , storz , g . , botstein , d .
and brown , p . o .
genomic expression program in the response of yeast cells to environmental changes .
cell , 123 , 123
gavin , a . c . , bosche , m . , krause , r . , grandi , p . , marzioch , m . , bauer , a . , schultz , j . , rick , j . m . , michon , a . m .
and cruciat , c . m .
( 123 ) functional organization of the yeast proteome by systematic analysis of protein complexes .
nature , 123 ,
ge , h . , liu , z . , church , g .
and vidal , m .
( 123 ) correlation be - tween transcriptome and interactome mapping data from saccha - romyces cerivisia .
nature genet . , 123 , 123
ho , y . , gruhler , a . , heilbut , a . , bader , g . d . , moore , l . , adams , s . l . , millar , a . , taylor , p . , bennett , k .
and boutilier , k .
( 123 ) systematic identication of protein complexes in saccharomyces cerevisiae by mass spectometry .
nature , 123 , 123
ihmels , j . , friedlander , g . , bergmann , s . , sarig , o . , ziv , y .
and ( 123 ) revealing modular organization in the
yeast transcriptional network .
nature genet . , 123 , 123
jansen , r . , greenbaum , d .
and gerstein , m .
( 123 ) relating whole genome expression data with protein protein interactions .
genome res . , 123 , 123
kindeman , r .
and snell , j .
( 123 ) markov random fields and their applications .
american mathematical society , providence , ri .
pearl , j .
( 123 ) probabilistic reasoning in intelligent systems .
segal , e . , taskar , b . , gasch , a . , friedman , n .
and koller , d .
( 123 ) rich probabilistic models for gene expression .
bioinformatics , 123 ( suppl 123 ) , s123s123
spellman , p . t . , sherlock , g . , zhang , m . o . ,
eisen , m . b . , brown , p . o . , botstein , d .
and futcher , b .
( 123 ) comprehensive identication of cell cycle - regulated genes of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae by microarray hybridization .
cell , 123 ( 123 ) , 123
taskar , b . , abbeel , p .
and koller , d .
( 123 ) discriminative proba -
bilistic models for relational data
xenarios , i . , rice , d . w . , salwinski , l . , baron , m . k . , marcotte , e . m .
and eisenberg , d .
( 123 ) dip : the database of interacting proteins .
nucleic acid res . , 123 , 123
discussion and conclusions we presented a unied probabilistic model over both gene expression and protein interaction data , that searches for pathwayssets of genes that are both co - expressed and whose protein products interact .
we showed that our method discovers groups of genes that correspond better to functional groups , and contain entire protein complexes , properties that one would expect of a pathway .
our models currently constrain each gene to be in exactly one pathway .
this is clearly a limitation , since in different conditions genes participate in different cellular processes .
recently , several approaches have been pro - posed that discover condition - specic groups from gene expression ( ihmels et al . , 123; segal et al . , 123 ) .
the discovery of condition - specic groupings would have great potential in the context of protein interactions , as it may allow us to identify which interactions are active under which conditions .
this work was supported by the national science founda - tion , grant aci - 123
eran segal was also supported by a stanford graduate fellowship ( sgf ) .
