su ve ma ha me wi si su in nu re - wo le ta .
ho , li mo ma le al , th ar ge ap us a ra se tr se cl in ad .
in ma se , we al ha th op of us po - ba ac le .
in of us a ra se tr se , th le ha ac to a po of un in an ca re th la fo so nu of th .
we in a ne al fo pe ac le wi su ve ma , i . e . , an al fo ch wh in to re ne .
we pr a th mo fo th al us th no of a ve sp .
we pr ex re sh th em ou ac le me ca si re th ne fo la tr in in bo th st in an tr se .
ke : ac le , se sa , su ve ma , cl - ti , re fe
in ma su le ta , la in to cr a tr se is ti - co an co th , nd wa to mi th nu of la in is be .
us , th tr se is ch to be a ra sa of in .
ho - ev , in ma ca ac le ca be em .
he , th le ca ac ch th tr da .
it is ho th al th le th ex ex wi re th le ne fo la qu of la da .
po - ba ac le fo cl wa in by le an ga ( 12 ) .
th le ha ac to a po of un da an ca re th tr cl la fo a ce nu of in in th po .
in ma do th is a re ap si a la qu of un da is re av .
th ma is wi ac le is nd a wa to ch go re or qu fr th po .
ex of si in wh po - ba ac le ca be em ar : we se .
a we - ba co wi to se th we fo pa ty of pa ( e . g . , pa co li of jo pu ) .
it em a nu of pe to ha - la so we pa so as to cr a tr se fo an au
c ( ci : 12 ) 12 si to an da ko .
to an ko
cl th wi ev be us to cl th re of th we .
si hu ex is a li re , th co wi to re th nu of pa th em ha to la .
ra th la pa ra dr fr th we , th co re ta pa th it be wi be mo in
em lt .
th us wi to cr a pe au ju em lt .
in th le ph th au le ha ac to th us pa em le .
it in br up pa em an as th us wh th di em is ju ma or no .
ba on th us an it br up an em an qu th us .
th pr is re so nu of ti an th re is an em lt ta to th sp pe .
re fe .
th us wi to so th a da or we fo it ( im , ar , et . ) th ar of pe in il kn it wh i se it ty of se .
th co di an it an th us te th le wh th it is in or no .
ba on th us an , th le br up an it fr th da .
af so nu of qu th le th re a nu of it in th da th it be wi be of in to th
th rs tw ex in in .
th go is to cr a cl th wo we on un fu in .
th th ex is an ex of tr ( va , 12 ) .
th le pe is as on th re in in th da ra th a to in te se .
we pr a ne al th pe po - ba ac le wi su ve ma ( sv ) .
we pr th mo fo ou ap to ch th qu , to wi ex re sh th ac le wi sv ca si re th ne fo la tr in .
we sh us te cl as a ru ex th th pa .
th is th ta of de to wh pr - de to a gi te do be .
te cl ha an im ro to pl , es wi th re ex of re av te da .
th ha be ma ap to ac th go ( ro , 12 , du et al . , 12 , se , 12 ) .
fu , it is al a do in wh sv ha sh no su ( jo , 12 , du et al . , 12 ) an it is of in to se wh ac le ca oe fu im ov th al hi ee
th re of th pa is st as fo .
se 12 di th us of sv bo in te of in an tr .
se 12 th in th no of a ve sp an se 12 pr th mo fo th me fo pe ac le wi sv .
in se 12 we pr ex re fo tw re - wo te do th in th ac le ca si re th ne fo la in in pr .
we co in se 12 wi so di of th po si of ou re an so di fo fu wo .
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
fi 12 : ( a ) a si li su ve ma .
( b ) a sv ( do li ) an a
tr sv ( so li ) .
so ci re un in .
su ve ma
su ve ma ( va , 12 ) ha st th fo an ex em su .
th ha be ap to ta su as ha di re , ob re , an te cl .
12 sv fo in we sh co sv in th bi cl se .
we ar gi tr da ( x1 .
xn ) th ar ve in so sp x rd .
we ar al gi th la ( y1 .
yn ) wh yi ( 12 , 12 ) .
in th si fo , sv ar hy th se th tr da by a ma ma ( se fi .
al ve ly on on si of th hy ar la as 12 , an al ve ly on th ot si ar la as 12
th tr in th li cl to th hy ar ca su ve .
mo ge , sv al on to pr th or tr da in sp x to a hi di fe sp f vi a me ke op k .
in ot wo , we co th se of cl of th fo :
wh k sa me co ( bu , 12 ) we ca wr : k ( u , v ) = ( u ) ( v ) wh : x f an de an in pr .
we ca th re f as :
f ( x ) = w ( x ) , wh w =
th , by us k we ar im pr th tr da in a di ( of hi di ) fe sp f .
th sv th co th is th co to th ma ma hy in f .
by ch di ke fu we ca
to an ko
im pr th tr da fr x in sp f fo wh hy in f co to mo co de bo in th or sp x .
tw co us ke ar th po ke gi by k ( u , v ) = ( u v + 12 ) p wh in po bo of de p in th or sp x 12 an th ra ba fu ke k ( u , v ) = ( e ( uv ) ( uv ) ) wh in bo by pl we ga up ke tr in .
fo th ma of th pa we wi as th th mo of th tr da fe ve ar co , i . e . , fo al tr in xi , ( ci : 12 ) ( xi ) ( ci : 12 ) = fo so xe .
th qu ( ci : 12 ) ( xi ) ( ci : 12 ) is al co fo ra ba fu ke , an so th as ha no ee fo th ke .
fo ( ci : 12 ) ( xi ) ( ci : 12 ) to be co wi th po ke we re th ( ci : 12 ) xi ( ci : 12 ) be co .
it is po to re th co on ( xi ) an we sh di th at th en of se 12
12 sv fo tr th pr su wo wi th fr of in .
th wa a la tr se of da an th ta wa to cr a cl th wo ha go pe on un te da .
in ad to re in , sv ca al be us fo tr - ti .
he we ar rs gi a se of bo la an un da .
th le ta is to as la to th un da as ac as po .
sv ca pe tr - du by nd th hy th ma th ma re to bo th la an un da .
se fi 12 fo an ex .
re , tr sv ( ts ) ha be us fo te cl ( jo , 12 ) , at so im in pr / re br pe ov re in sv .
ve sp
gi a se of la tr da an a me ke k , th is a se of hy th se th da in th in fe sp f .
we ca th se of co hy th ve sp ( mi , 12 ) .
in ot wo , hy f is in ve sp if fo ev tr in xi wi la yi we ha th f ( xi ) > 12 if yi = 12 an f ( xi ) < 12 if yi = 12
mo fo : de 12 ou se of po hy is gi as :
f | f ( x ) =
wh w w
wh ou pa sp w is si eq to f .
th ve sp , v is th de
v = ( f h | i ( 12 .
n ) yi ( xi ) > 12 ) .
no th si h is a se of hy , th is a bi be un ve w an hy f in h .
th we wi re v as :
v = ( w w | ( ci : 12 ) w ( ci : 12 ) = 12 , yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 , i = 12
we ha no in a bi we in eq .
th , th si eu in pr wi pr hy th pa th th or .
ho , a po ke of de on in hy th do no ne to pa th th or .
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
fi 12 : ( a ) ve sp du .
th su of th hy re un we ve .
ea of th tw hy co to a la tr in .
ea hy re th ar on th hy in wh co hy - po ca li .
he , th ve sp is th su se of th hy cl to th ca .
( b ) an sv cl in a ve sp .
th da em - be sp is th la ra sp wh ce li in th ve sp an wh su do no in wi th hy .
th ce of th em - be sp co to th sv , it ra is pr to th ma of th sv in f , an th tr po co to th hy th it to ar th su ve .
no th a ve sp on ex if th tr da ar li se in th fe sp .
th , we re li se of th tr da in th fe sp .
th re is mu le ha th it mi at rs se .
fi , th fe sp of ha a ve hi di an so in ma ca it re in th da se be li se .
se , as no by sh - ta an cr ( 12 ) , it is po to mo an ke so th th da in th ne in fe sp is li se
th ex a du be th fe sp f an th pa sp w ( va , 12 , he et al . , 12 ) wh we sh ta ad of in th ne se : po in f co to hy in w an vi ve .
by de , po in w co to hy in f .
th in be th co is th ob a tr in xi in th fe sp re th se of se hy to on th cl xi co .
in fa , we ca sh th th se 12
th is do by re fo al tr in xi : k ( xi , xi ) k ( xi , xi ) + wh is a po re co .
th es ac th sa ee as th so ma er fu ( co an va , 12 ) co us in sv .
it pe th tr da to be li no - se in th or fe sp .
to an ko
of al po w in w is re to li on on si of a hy in w .
mo fo , to sh th po in f co to hy in w , su we ar gi a ne tr in xi wi la yi .
th an se hy mu sa yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 12
no , in of vi w as th no ve of a hy in f , th of ( xi ) as be th no ve of a hy in w .
th yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 de a ha sp in w .
fu w ( xi ) = 12 de a hy in w th ac as on of th bo to ve sp v .
no th th ve sp is a co re on th su of a hy in pa sp .
se fi 12 fo an ex .
sv nd th hy th ma th ma in th fe sp f .
on wa
to po th op ta is as fo :
( ci : 12 ) w ( ci : 12 ) = 12
yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 i = 12
by ha th co ( ci : 12 ) w ( ci : 12 ) = 12 an yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 we ca th so to li in th ve sp .
no , we ca vi th ab pr as nd th po w in th ve sp th ma th di : mi ( yi ( w ( xi ) ) ) .
fr th du be fe an pa sp , an si ( ci : 12 ) ( xi ) ( ci : 12 ) = , ea ( xi ) / is a un no ve of a hy in pa sp .
be of th co yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 i = 12 .
n ea of th hy de th ve sp .
th ex yi ( w ( xi ) ) ca be
th di be th po w an th hy wi no ve ( xi ) .
th , we wa to nd th po w in th ve sp th ma th mi di to an of th de hy .
th is , sv nd th ce of th la ra hy wh ce ca be pl in th ve sp an wh su do no in wi th hy co to th la in , as in fi 12 .
th no of th hy th ar to by th ma ra hy ar th ( xi ) fo wh th di yi ( w ( xi ) ) is mi .
no , ta th or ra th th du vi , an re w as th un no ve of th sv an ( xi ) as po in fe sp , we se th th hy th ar to by th ma ra hy co to th su ve ( i . e . , th la po th ar cl to th sv hy bo ) .
th ra of th sp is th di fr th ce of th sp to on of th to hy an is gi by yi ( w ( xi ) / ) wh ( xi ) is a su ve .
no , vi w as a un no ve of th sv an ( xi ) as po in fe sp , we ha th th di yi ( w ( xi ) / ) is :
th di be su ve ( xi ) an th hy wi no ve w ,
wh is th ma of th sv di by .
th , th ra of th sp is pr to th ma of th sv .
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
ac le
it is as th in po - ba ac le we ha a po of un in .
th in x ar in an id di ac to so un di f ( x ) an th la ar di ac to so co di p ( y | x ) .
gi an un po u , an ac le ( ci : 12 ) ha th co : ( f , q , x ) .
th rs co is a cl , f : x ( 12 , 12 ) , tr on th cu se of la da x ( an po un in in u to ) .
th se co q ( x ) is th qu fu th , gi a cu la se x , de wh in in u to qu ne .
th ac le ca re a cl f af ea qu ( on le ) or af so xe nu of qu .
th ma di be an ac le an a pa le is th qu co q .
th br us to th is of ho to ch th ne un in to qu .
si to se et al .
( 12 ) , we us an ap th qu po so as to at to re th si of th ve sp as mu as po .
we ta a my ap th gr ch th ne qu ba on th cr .
we al no th my is a st ap us in se de ma pr ho an ru ( 12 ) , la ( 12 ) , he et al .
( 12 ) .
we ne tw mo de be we
de 12 ar ( v ) is th su ar th th ve sp v oc on th hy - sp ( ci : 12 ) w ( ci : 12 ) = 12
de 12 gi an ac le ( ci : 12 ) , le vi de th ve sp of ( ci : 12 ) af i qu ha be ma .
no , gi th ( i + 12 ) th qu xi , de :
i = vi ( w w | ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 ) , i = vi ( w w | + ( w ( xi ) ) > 12 ) .
i an v +
12 an 12 re .
i de th re ve sp wh th ne qu xi is la as
we wi to re th ve sp as fa as po .
in , on go wa of do th is to ch a qu th ha th ve sp .
th fo le sa th , fo an gi nu of qu , th le th ch su qu th ha th ve sp is th le th mi th ma ex si of th ve sp , wh th ma is ta ov al co di of y gi x :
to an ko
le 12 su we ha an in sp x , ni di fe sp f ( in vi a ke k ) , an pa sp w .
su ac le ( ci : 12 ) al qu in wh co hy in pa sp w ha th ar of th cu ve sp .
le ( ci : 12 ) be an ot ac le .
de th ve sp of ( ci : 12 ) an ( ci : 12 ) af i qu i an vi re .
le p de th se of al co di of y gi x .
i n+ su
i ) ) su
wi st in wh th ex a qu j ( 12 .
i ) by ( ci : 12 ) th do no ha ve sp vj
th pr is st .
th le , ( ci : 12 ) al ch to qu in th ha th ve sp .
th ar ( v i ) no ma wh th la of th qu po ar .
le r de th di of fe sp f .
th r is al th di of th pa sp w .
le sr de th su ar of th un hy of di r .
th , un an co di p , ar ( v
i+ ) = 12
i ) = sr / 12 .
no , su ( ci : 12 ) do no al qu an in th ha th ar of th ve sp .
th af so nu , k , of qu ( ci : 12 ) rs ch to qu a po xk th do no ha th cu ve sp vk .
le yk ( 12 , 12 ) co to th la of xk th wi ca th la ha of th ve sp to be ch .
k ) an so yk = 12
no th
k ) = sr / 12 , so we ha th ar ( v
k ) > ar ( v +
k ) + ar ( v +
wi lo of ge as ar ( v
no co th co di p1 :
k ) > sr / 12
p1 ( 12 | x ) =
if x ( ci : 12 ) = xk if x = xk
th un th di , i > k ,
he , i > k ,
i ) ) > su
no , su w w is th un pa ve co to th sv th we wo ha ob ha we kn th ac la of al of th da in th po .
we kn th w mu li in ea of th ve sp v1 v1 v1 .
. , wh vi de th ve sp af i qu .
th , by sh th si of th ve sp as mu as po wi ea qu , we ar re as fa as po th sp in wh w ca li .
he , th sv th we le fr ou li nu of qu wi li cl to w .
if on is wi to as th th is a hy ly wi h th ge th da an th th ge hy is de an th th da ar no fr , th st ge pe pr of an al th ha ve sp ca al be sh ( fr et al . , 12 ) .
fo ex on ca sh th th ge er de ex wi th nu of qu .
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
fi 12 : ( a ) si ma wi qu b .
( b ) si ma wi qu a .
fi 12 : ( a ) ma ma wi qu b .
th tw sv wi ma m an m+ fo b ar sh .
( b ) ra ma wi qu e .
th tw sv wi ma m an m+ fo e ar sh .
th di pr mo fo an ap wh we qu in th sp th cu ve sp in tw eq pa as mu as po .
gi an un in x fr th po , it is no pr to ex co th si of th ne ve sp v an v + ( i . e . , th ve sp ob wh x is la as 12 an +1 re ) .
we ne pr th wa of ap th pr .
si ma .
re fr se 12 th , gi so da ( x1 .
xi ) an la ( y1 .
yi ) , th sv un ve wi ob fr th da is th ce of th la hy th ca t in th cu ve sp vi .
th po of wi in th ve sp vi cl de on th sh of th re vi , ho it is of ap in th ce of th ve sp .
no , we ca te ea of th un in x in th po to se ho cl th co hy in w co to th ce pl wi .
th cl a hy in w is to th po wi , th mo ce it is pl in th ve sp , an th mo it bi th ve sp .
th we ca pi th un in in th po wh hy
to an ko
in w co cl to th ve wi .
fo ea un in x , th sh di be it hy in w an th ve wi is si th di be th fe ve ( x ) an th hy wi in fw is ea co by |w ( x ) | .
th re in th na ru : le an sv on th ex la da an ch as th ne in to qu th in th co cl to th hy in f .
fi 12 pr an il .
in th st pi we ha at ou th su of th un we ve hy th ap in fi 12 .
th wh ar is ve sp vi wh is bo by so li co to la in .
th ve do li re un in in th po .
th ci re th la ra hy th ca t in th ve sp .
no th th ed of th ci do no to th so li as th da sp in 12 do no me th hy on th su of th la hy ( th me so un th su ) .
th in b is cl to th sv wi an so we wi ch to qu b .
ma ma .
th si ma me ca be a ra ro ap .
it re on th as th th ve sp is fa sy an th wi is ce pl .
it ha be de , bo in th an pr , th th as ca fa si ( he et al . , 12 ) .
in , if we ar no ca we ma ac qu an in wh hy do no ev in th ve sp .
th ma ap is de to ov th pr to so de .
gi so da ( x1 .
xi ) an la ( y1 .
yi ) , th sv un ve wi is th ce of th la hy th ca t in th cu ve sp vi an th ra mi of th hy is pr to th si of th ma of wi .
we ca us th ra mi as an in of th si of th ve sp ( va , 12 ) .
su we ha a ca un in x in th po .
we ca es th re si of th re ve sp v by la x as 12 , nd th sv ob fr ad x to ou la tr da an lo at th si of it ma m .
we ca pe a si ca fo v + by re x as cl +1 an nd th re sv to ob ma m+ .
si we wa an eq sp of th ve sp , we wi ar ( v ) an ar ( v + ) to be si .
no , co mi ( ar ( v ) , ar ( v + ) ) .
it wi be sm if ar ( v ) an ar ( v + ) ar ve di .
th we wi co mi ( m , m+ ) as an ap an we wi ch to qu th x fo wh th qu is la .
he , th ma qu al is as fo : fo ea un in x co th ma m an m+ of th sv ob wh we la x as 12 an +1 re th ch to qu th un in fo wh th qu mi ( m , m+ ) is gr .
fi 12 an 12 sh an ex co th si ma an ma ma
ra ma .
th me is si in sp to th ma ma me .
we us m an m+ as in of th si of v an v + .
ho , we sh tr to
to ea no , wi lo of ge we sh as th th co of pr is 12 , i . e . ,
th ra is eq to th ma .
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
ta in ac th fa th th cu ve sp vi ma be qu el an fo so x in th po bo m an m+ ma be sm si be of th sh of ve sp .
th we wi in lo at th re si of m an m+ an ch to qu th x fo wh mi ( m
m ) is la ( se fi 12 ) .
m+ , m+
th ab th me ar ap to th qu co th al ha ve sp .
af pe so nu of qu we th re a cl by le a sv wi th la in .
th ma ca be us as an in of th ve sp si ir of wh th fe ve ha co mo .
th th ex fo th ma an ra me st ho ev wi th co on th mo of th tr fe ve .
th si me ca st be us wh th tr fe ve do no ha co mo , bu th mo ex no lo ho si th ma ma hy ca no lo be vi as th ce of th la al sp .
ho , fo th si me , al mo ha re be pr by ca et al .
( 12 ) th do no re th co on th mo .
fo in le , af pe so nu of qu we th re a cl - er by le a sv wi th la in .
fo tr le , af qu so nu of in we th re a cl by le a tr sv wi th la an un in .
fo ou em ev of th ab me we us tw re - wo te cl do : th re - 12 da se an th ne da se .
12 re da co ex
th re - 12 da se is a co us co of ne st ca in ha - la to .
ea ne st ha be ha - la wi so nu of to la su as co , wh an co ac .
no th so of th to ov an so so ar be to mo th on ca .
we us th 12 ar fr th mo sp of th da an , to st co wi pr st , we co th to te mo fr oc to .
we le te di bi cl , on to di ea to .
ea do wa re as a st , tf - we wo fr ve . 12 ea ve ha un mo .
a st li of co wo wa us an wo oc in fe th th do we al ig .
us th re , th do ve ha ab 12 di .
we rs co th th qu me in th in le se
te se co of th 12 do pr in th mo te se .
ob fr ww . re . at . co / le .
th re - 12 co co wi a se of pr tr an te se sp .
th co us sp lt ou du ar an th wi a la to , an th us ea ar as th tr se an la ar as th te se .
we us ra ( mc , 12 ) fo te pr .
to an ko
la tr se si
la tr se si
fi 12 : ( a ) av te se ac ov th te mo fr oc to wh us a po si of 12
( b ) av te se pr / re br po ov th te mo fr oc to wh us a po si of 12
12 12 12 12 12 12
ta 12 : av te se ac ov th to te mo fr oc to ( mo fr to rs ) wh tr wi te la do .
bo in
fo ea of th te to we pe th fo st .
we cr a po of un da by sa 12 do fr th re da an re th la .
we th ra se tw do in th po to gi as th in la tr se .
on do wa ab th de to , an th ot do wa no ab th to .
th we ga ea le 12 un do an 12 la do .
af a xe nu of qu we as ea le to re a cl ( an
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12
ta 12 : av te se pr / re br po ov th to te mo fr oc to ( mo fr to rs ) wh tr wi te la do - me .
bo in st si .
sv wi a po ke of de on le on th la tr do ) .
we th te th cl on th in te se .
th ab pr wa re th ti fo ea to an th re we av .
we co th si ma , ma ma an ra ma qu me as we as a ra sa me .
th ra sa me si ra - do ch th ne qu po fr th un po .
th la me re wh ha in th re pa le se tr se is a ra sa of
to me pe we us tw me :
te se cl er an , to st co wi pr re co re , th pr / re br po ( jo , 12 ) .
pr is th pe of do a cl la as re th ar re re .
re is th pe of re do th ar la as re by th cl .
by al th de th on th sv we ca tr pr - ci fo re an ca ob a pr / re cu fo th te se .
th pr / re br po is a on nu su of th gr : it is th po at wh pr
fi 12 an 12 pr th av te se ac an pr / re br po ov th te to as we va th nu of qu pe .
th ho li is th pe le ac wh th sv is tr on al 12 la do co th po .
ov th re co , th th ac le me pe al id wi li no di to di be th .
ea me al ap ou ra sa .
ta 12 an 12 sh th te se ac an br pe of th ac me af th ha as fo ju ei la in ( so , to wi th in tw ra in , th ha se te la in ) .
th de th th th ac me pe si on th
fo sv an tr sv le we us sv jo ( 12 ) .
to an ko
la tr se si
la tr se si
fi 12 : ( a ) av te se ac ov th te mo fr oc to wh us a po si of 12
( b ) av te se pr / re br po ov th te mo fr oc to wh us a po si of 12
re da se af ei qu , wi th ma an ra sh a ve sl ed in pe .
th la co in ea ta ar of mo in .
th sh ap ho ma in wo be ne if we we to us ra to ac th sa le of pe as th ra ac le me .
in th in , pa le on av re ov si ti as mu da to ac co le of pe as th ac le me .
th ta in th ac le pr mo be wi th in cl , pa wh me pe by th pr / re br po .
th la ob ha al be no be in pr em te ( mc an ni , 12 ) .
we no th ap ha of th qu th th ac le me as te to tu ou to be po la , re of th tr ov pr of po in in th do .
we in wh th ga th th ac le me ha ov re ra sa we du to th bi sa .
we cr a ne qu me ca ba wh wo ra sa an eq nu of po an ne in fr th po .
ob in pr th ab to ra sa an eq nu of po an ne in wi ha to la an en po of in rs ma or ma no be re de up th do in qu .
fi 12 an 12 sh th av ac an br po of th ba me co wi th ra ac me an re ra me on th re da wi a po of 12 un in .
th ra an ra cu ar th sa as th sh in fi 12 an 12 .
th ma an si cu ar om to ea le .
th ba me ha a mu be - te pr / re br pe th th re ra me , al it is st ma an th ou by th ac me .
fo cl ac , th ba me in ha ex po pe ( le th 12 wh is
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
fi 12 : ( a ) av te se ac ov th te mo fr oc to wh us a po si of 12 an 12
( b ) av br po ov th te mo fr oc to wh us a po si of 12 an 12
ev wo th pu ra gu ) an is al co an si ou - pe by th ac me .
th in th th pe ga of th ac me ar no me du to th ab to bi th cl of th in th qu .
th ac me ar ch sp ta in an ap ha of th in ha to ha po la .
fi 12 an 12 sh th av ac an br po of th ra me wi tw di po si .
cl th ra sa me pe wi no be ae by th po si .
ho , th gr in th in th po of un da wi im bo th ac an br pe of ac le .
th is qu in si a go ac me sh be ab to ta ad of a la po of po qu an as mo ta qu .
we al in ac le in a tr se .
he we qu th po as us ex no ea me ( si an ra ) re a tr sv tr on bo th la an re un da in th po .
as de by jo ( 12 ) th br po fo a ts wa co by gr al th nu of un in th we wi th ts to la as po .
th in re - le th ts mu ti an wa co in .
si ou se wa tr , th pe of ea cl wa me on th po of da ra th a se te se .
th re th re fe tr in ex pr in th in .
fi 12 sh th us a ts pr a sl ad ov a re sv in bo qu me ( ra an si ) wh co br po .
ho , th gr al sh th ac le pr no mo be th tr in us a ts wi a ra qu me ne ov 12 qu to ac
to an ko
la tr se si
fi 12 : av po se pr / re br po ov th te mo fr
oc to wh us a po si of 12
la tr se si
la tr se si
fi 12 : ( a ) av te se ac ov th ve co .
to wh us a po si of 12
( b ) av te se ac fo co . sy . ib . pc . ha wi a 12
th sa br pe as a re sv wi a si me th ha on se 12 la in .
12 ne ex
ou se da co wa k .
la ne co la ( 12 ) .
we us th ve co .
gr , di th us he an su li .
we pr th te do ex as be , re in ve of ab 12 di .
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
fi 12 : ( a ) a si ex of qu un cl .
( b ) ma - av te se ac fo co . os . ms - wi . mi an co . sy . ib . pc . ha wh hy us th ra me fo th rs te qu an si fo th re .
we pl ha of th 12 do as to us as an in te se , an re , ra ch a po of 12 do fr th re in .
we pe tw ru fo ea of th ve to an av th re .
we us te se ac to me pe .
fi 12 co th le cu ( av ov al of th re fo th ve co .
to ) fo th th ac le me an ra sa .
ag , th ho li in th pe of an sv th ha be tr on th en po .
th is no ap di be th ma an ra me bu , in tw of th ve ne ( co . sy . ib . pc . ha an co . os . ms - wi . mi ) th si ac le me pe no wo th th ma an ra me .
fi 12 sh th av le cu fo th co . sy . ib . pc . ha to .
in ar te to ft pe ce of th ru fo bo of th tw ne th si me wa mi an pe ex po ( fo in , ac on 12 ac ev wi ft tr in , wh is wo th ju ra gu a la ! ) .
th in th th si qu me ma be mo un th th ot tw me .
on re fo th co be th th si me te no to ex th fe sp as ag as th ot ac me , an ca en up ig en cl of un in .
in fi 12 , th si me ta se qu be it ev co an in in th un cl wh bo th ma an ra qu a po in th un cl im .
wh ma an ra ap mo st th ar mu mo co in - te .
wi a la po of s in , th re ab 12 sv to be le fo ea qu .
mo of th co co is in wh th nu of qu th ha al be as is la .
th re is th th co of tr an sv gr po - al wi th si of th la tr se an so no tr ea sv is co ( ta
to an ko
qu si ma ra hy
ta 12 : ty ru ti in se fo th ac me on th ne da
ov 12 se to ge th 12 qu on a su ul 12 12 wo wi a po of 12 do ) .
ho , wh th qu of la da is sm , ev wi a la po si , ma an ra ar fa fa ( ta a fe se pe qu ) si no tr ea sv is fa ch .
in , it is in th rs te qu th th si se to su th mo th it la of ag ex .
th mo a hy me .
we ca us ma or ra fo th rs fe qu an th us th si me fo th re .
ex wi th hy me sh th it ma th st of th ma an ra me wh al th sc of th si me .
fi 12 co th hy me wi th ra an si me on th tw ne fo wh th si me pe po .
th te se ac of th hy me is vi id to th of th ra me wh th hy me ru ti wa ab th sa as th si me , as in by ta 12
re wo
th ha be se st of ac le fo cl .
th qu by co - mi al ( se et al . , 12 , fr et al . , 12 ) us a pr di ov hy .
th ge al ha be ap in do an wi cl fo wh sp an sa fr a pr di is na .
th ha be us wi pr mo ( da an en , 12 ) an sp wi th na ba mo fo te cl in a ba le se ( mc an ni , 12 ) .
th na ba cl pr an in mo an pr wa to in - ra pr kn an da wi mi va .
ho , it ty do no pe as we as di me su as sv , pa in th te cl do - ma ( jo , 12 , du et al . , 12 ) .
we re - cr mc an ni ( 12 ) ex se on th re - 12 co an co th re re fr th al ( wh we sh ca th mn - al he ) wi ou .
in li wi th ex se , qu we as ve at a ti , an th wa ac by pi th ve in cl to th cu hy .
fi 12 co mc an ni re re wi ou .
th gr in th th ac sv pe is si be th th of th
an al co ap to qu by co wa ex by li an ta ( 12 , 12 ) .
al th al ( lt - al he ) la th th -
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
sv si ac
la tr se si
sv si ac lt wi ac lt wi pa
la tr se si
fi 12 : ( a ) av br po pe ov th co , tr an ac re - 12 ca .
( b ) av te se ac ov th to te re - 12
or ju of th qu by co al , th su us th co ba ac le me wi wi cl in th te ca do .
fi 12 wa pr by em th ex se on th re - 12 da se an it co th re re wi ou .
th al do no re a po an ne in to se th cl .
ra th se ou ac sv wi a po an ne in ( wh wo gi th ac sv an un ad ) th ac sv ra sa 12 do fo it rs 12 qu .
th pr vi gu th th tr se co at le on po - ti in .
th ac sv th pr to qu in ac us th si me .
de th ve na in po fo th ac sv , th gr sh th th ac sv ac is si be th th of th lt - al .
le an ga ( 12 ) in un sa an ap it to a te do us lo re an , in a co pa , us de tr ( le an ca , 12 ) .
th si qu me fo sv ac le is es th sa as th un sa me ( ch th in th ou cu cl is mo un - ta ab ) , ho th pr su le ju as to wh th al sh be ee .
th al no th th pe of th un sa me ca be va , pe qu po on oc .
tw ot st ( ca et al . , 12 , sc an co , 12 ) in de - ve ou si me fo ac le wi su ve ma an pr di fo an .
ca , cr an sm ex th an fo th si me to co th us of so ma sv ( co an va , 12 ) wi li - ea no - se da .
sc an co no in be of th ac le cu in th pr of ou .
to an ko
co an fu wo
we ha in a ne al fo pe ac le wi sv .
by ta ad of th du be pa sp an fe sp , we ar at th al th at to re ve sp as mu as po at ea qu .
we ha sh em th th te ca pr co ga in bo th in an tr se so ca sh th ne fo la in by ov an or of ma , an in al al ca re th pe ac on th en po ha se on a fr of th da .
fu , la po of un da im th qu of th re cl .
of th th ma me pr , th si me is co th fa .
ho , th si me se to be a ro an mo un ap , as we wi wh it pe po on tw of th ve ne to .
if as ea qu is ex re to co ti th us ei th ma or ra ma be pr .
ho , if th co of as ea qu is re ch an mo em is pl up fa fe th th si me ma be mo su .
in ei ca , we ha sh th th us of th me fo le ca su ou st pa le .
fu , ex wi th hy me in th it is po to co th be of th ra an si me .
th wo pr he le us to ma di of in .
se st ha no th ga in co sp ca be ob at th ex of ge pe by qu mu in at a ti ( le an ga , 12 , mc an ni , 12 ) .
vi sv in te of th ve sp gi an in as to wh th ap ar be ma , an th ma pr a gu as to wh mu in ar be to qu .
fo in , it is su to qu tw in wh ve sp hy ar fa pa to ea ot .
so , wi th si me , in of bl ch to qu th tw in th ar th cl to th cu sv , it ma be be to qu tw in th ar cl to th cu sv an wh hy in th ve sp ar fa pe .
si tr ca be ma fo th ra an ma me .
ba po ma ( he et al . , 12 ) ap nd th ce of ma of th ve sp .
us th si me wi th po ra th th sv po in th ve sp ma pr an im in pe an st .
th us of mo ca me to es ve sp ar ma al gi im .
on wa of vi th st of al ch to ha th ve sp is th we ha es pl a un di ov th cu sp of co hy an we wi to re th ex si of th ve sp as fa as po .
ra th ma a un di ov co hy , it is pl th th ad of pr kn ov ou hy sp ma al us to mo ou qu al an pr us wi an ev be st .
fu , th pa - ba fr in by mc ( 12 ) co th ee of pr kn on ge bo an th ap ma le to th gu fo th mo qu al .
fi , th ra an ma me ar co ex si th ha to st th ea of th un da in an le an sv fo ea po
sv ac le wi ap to te cl
la .
ho , th te mo da se wi on di by on in fr th or la da se an so on ca en le an sv on th or da se an th co th in up to ob th ne sv ( ca an po , 12 ) fo ea of th po la of ea of th un in .
th , on wo ho ob a mu mo ec im of th ra an ma me an he al th ac le al to sc up to la pr .
th wo wa su by da in as pr un su to sr in , an by ar gr da - 12 - 12 - 12 un th mu pr in ap to in sy .
