su an un le me ha tr - ti fo on da co of in in of a si ty .
ho , ma re - wo do ar be de by re mo in wh in of mu ty ar re to ea ot in co wa .
fo ex - pl , in a sc pa do , pa ar re to ea ot vi ci , an ar al re to th au .
in th ca , th la of on en ( e . g . , th to of th pa ) is of - te co wi th la of re en .
we pr a ge cl of mo fo cl an cl in re - la do th ca pr de be - tw re in .
we sh ho to le su mo ef fr da .
we pr em re on tw re wo da se .
ou ex in a tr cl - si se in th ac ca be si im by mo re de .
ou al - ri au in a ve na be , wh ou kn ab on in he us cl re on , wh in tu he us cl ot .
in an un - vi se , ou mo pr co cl wi a ve na in , ev fo in ty th do no ha an at .
mo su an un le me as th da in ar in an id di ( ii ) .
nu cl an cl ap ha be de to wo on su at da , wh ea da in is a x ed - le ve of at va - ue ( se ( du et al . , 12 ) fo a su ) .
ho , ma re - wo da se ar mu ri in st , in in - st of mu ty th ar re to ea ot .
hy - te is on ex , wh we pa ar co by li .
an ex is a do of sc pa , wh pa - pe ar re to ea ot vi ci , an ar al re to th au .
th ii as is cl vi fo tw pa wr by th sa au or tw pa li by ci , wh ar li to ha th sa to .
re , th ha be a gr in in le te fo mo ri st da .
re li be in pr a un so of in - ma th ha be pr us fo bo cl an cl in th hy do ( sl an cr ,
12 kl , 12 ) .
in , re le me - od at to us ou kn ab on ob to re co ab ot , re ob .
fo ex , we wo li to pr in ab th to of a pa - to pa th it ci .
th , in tu , wo pr in to pa th th ci .
we wo al li to us in ab s to to he us re co ab th re ar of s au , an ab th to of ot pa wr by th au .
se au ha pr re cl me al th li of th in pr id .
ne an je ( 12 ) pr an it cl al wh es im th pr ex , by it as la to te in th cl is co ab , an us th la to cl re in .
sl an mi ( 12 ) pr an it al ca fo - hu fo th pr of cl - in we pa , e . g . , as be to a un st or no .
ho , no of th ap pr a si co mo of th co be di re in .
he th ar fo to pr a pu pr - ra ap , wh th re of di cl st or al ar co wi a un pr .
in cl , th em so fa ha be on dy da , su as wo - do co - oc ( ho an pu , 12 ) , do ci ( co an ch , 12 ) , we li ( co an ho , 12 kl , 12 ) , an ge ex da .
kl hu an au al - go ex th li st to de a mu re - fo re be hu an au pa , wh a go hu pa po to ma go au an a go au pa is po to by ma go hu .
th te ca be vi as re cl me fo on or tw ty of in ( e . g . , we pa , do an wo ) , wi a si re be th ( e . g . , hy , wo oc ) .
ho , we wo li to mo ri st pr in ma re wo do wi mu ty of in an co re be th .
fo ex , in a mo da th in ty mi be mo , ac , di , an pr .
in - st of th sa ty ma al be di re .
in a sc pa da , a pa is de by it se of wo an it re to th pa it ci ( as we as to th au wh wr it ) .
we wo li to id , fo ea in - st ty , su - po ( or se ) of in th ar si in bo th at an th re to ot
in th pa , we pr a ge cl of ge pr mo fo cl an cl in re - ti da .
th ke to ou ap is th us of a si pr mo fo th en da th ca in - ac be in in th do .
ou wo bu on th fr of pr re mo ( pr ) of ko an pf ( 12 ) th ex ba ne to a re se .
pr pr a la th al us to ca pr de be re in in a co wa .
in pa , we us it to al de - de be th cl va of re in , pr - vi a pr me fo pr in
li al ge pr mo , ou mo ac - co th en sp be pu su cl an pu un cl .
th , we ca le fr da wh so in ha a cl la an ot do no .
we ca al de wi ca wh on ( or mo ) of th in ty do no ha an ob cl at by in a ne la cl va to re - se th ( un ) cl .
no th , in re mo - el , it is of im to se th da in a tr an te se th ar in of ea ot si th tr - in an te in ma be in .
us na ra sa to se tr in is ve li to se li be in in th tr an te se da .
we ci th di by us a tr le se , wh we us th te da , al wi th la , in th tr ph .
he , ev if al th in ty ha ob cl at , th tr ph in le wi la va .
we pr an ap em al fo le su pr wi la va fr a re da .
th ta is qu co : ou mo in a co we of de be th la va of al of th en in th da , re st ap in .
we pr an ef ap al th sc li - ea wi th nu of in , an th ca be ap to la da se .
we pr ex re fo ou ap on tw do : a da of sc pa an au an a da of mo , ac an di .
ou cl ex sh th th re in pr a su bo in ac .
ap to a cl ta , we sh th ou me ar ab to ex th re st an nd co cl ev fo in ty th do no ha an at .
12 ge mo fo re da pr cl an cl ar of vi fr a ge pe as a de es ta .
da in ar as to be in an id - ca di ( ii ) sa fr a mi mo di - in cl , a la cl ra va is as wi th in to in it cl .
ot at of an in ar th as to be sa
bu .
ea in be to ex on of
fr a di as wi it cl .
a si ye po mo of us fo th di is th na in th na ba mo , th at of ea in ar as to be co in gi th cl va .
al th in as - su is of un , th mo ha ne pr to be ro an ef fo cl an cl - te ac a wi ra of ap ( du et al . , 12 ch an st , 12 ) .
bo cl an cl - in in es of th pa of th na ba mo ho , cl is si mo di du to th pr of la va .
th ii as ma by th st cl an cl mo is in in ri re do - ma , wh di in ar re to ea ot , an ar th li to be co .
in th se , we de a pr mo fo cl an cl - in in re do , wh en ar re to ea ot .
ou co ut th fr of pr - bi re mo ( pr ) ( ko an pf , 12 fr et al . , 12 ) .
12 pr re mo a pr is a te fo a pr di ov a re - la da of a gi sc .
it sp pr mo fo di cl of en , in pr - ti de be re ob .
gi a se of in - st an re be th , a pr de a jo pr di ov th at of th in .
re sc .
a re sc de at -
is as wi a se of at - is al as wi a se
tr an re of a se of in ty
ea ty .
ea ty of ty bi re re wi th ty to us th re as a se - va fu , wh va is th se of in " ! re to an in ex , fo an ac # , #
ro is th se of mo in wh
we as ea
of it rs ar , al us
th ac ha ap .
in ce ca , re mi ha at of th ow .
fo ex , th ro re mi be as wi th at cr - or , wh in th ra of th ac in th cr .
we ca in an ex ty co to th re .
in th ca , a re ob is it re to bo of it ar .
fo ex , if on of th ro ob is me st in so ch , th ro ob wo be re to th ac ob me st an th mo ob so ch .
by de , th re ar ma - to - on .
it wi be us to di be -
% ) , an re
sp th se of ob in ea ty , th re th ho be th , an th va of th to de th
tw en ty ( su as $& ( ' * ) , +& - or . / +1 ( 12 ty ( su as 12 at fo al of th ob .
a sk 12
th ob an th re .
we wi us 12 se of ob of ty pr mo .
a pr re mo : 12 of th re sc .
mo pr , a pr is a te -
sp a pr di ov a se of in
( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 )
fi 12 : ( a ) mo fo im do ( b ) mo fo co do ( c ) fr of un ne fo co mo .
pl , wh is in fo di sk 12
th re - su of th in is a pr mo ov a se of ra va co to al of th at of al of th ob in th sk .
we ca vi a pr as a co - pa wa of re a ba ne fo an sk ov th sc .
a pr co of a qu de st , an th pa as wi it , st is de by as wi ea at
se of pa pa
th de ha th fo
( pr al al
de al ch of re , bu we ha ch to om th fo si of pr . )
ea pa of
fo a gi sk 12 ro ba ne ov th ra va en of th fo th de of
, th pr st in an un - de pr on pa - is no si - is ac a se of ra va , on .
we ad th pr by in as de on an ag - gr fu ( e . g . , mo or me ) of th mu of va of th va ( se be ) .
no th if
wh on
th qu pa of th pr sp th pa - za of th mo .
gi a se of pa fo an at , we ca de a lo pr mo by as wi it a co pr di ( cp ) .
fo ea at
th cp re th de on th va of th ag - in th un ne -
we ha a cp th sp of th pa is of th fo
th cp fo
wo , fo ev
is us fo .
th , th cp fo
ma ti in th ne .
ag .
th ar ma po ch of ag - ga op to al de on a se of va .
an ob ch fo ca va is th mo ag - gr , wh co th mo co va of it pa -
le th do of ea
mo pr , co so va wh pa - we wi to ag in a si
ag is as fo : we de a di
fo ea ; gi a mu of va fo fo th va wh is th mo
ha th sa do .
th ef of th mo
, we us
co in th mu .
th mo ag is no ve se to th di - ti of va of it pa fo ex , it ca di - en be a hi sk an a fa un se of va th ha th sa mo fr va .
an ag - ga th be re th va di is a st mo ag .
in th ca , we st de a se of di -
, bu th ef of th ag is th
is a we av of th di - is th fr of th va .
we ac th be by us
ti , wh th we of
an ag va de as fo .
th ag va al ta on va -
th ta on th va
th de ef .
be th nu of va
th we de
it is ea to ve th th ag ha ex
we no th th ag ca al be vi as a ra - do se no th ch on of it pa un - fo at ra an ta on it va .
on ap co - se is th , li mi or ma , th st mo ca be de to al it re as a cp to sc li - ea wi th nu of pa .
we si de th ag in a ca bi tr .
th rs la co ag of di pa , wi ea ag ra se th va of on of it pa th fo la re th pr fo di pa of re fr th rs la , an so on .
( th co ca al be ex to
om de fo la of sp . )
ca wh th nu of va is no a po of # ; we 12 cl an cl mo we us th pr fr as th ba of ou mo fo re cl an cl .
as in th at pr - ab ge ap , ou ap is ba on th us of a sp va to re th cl or th cl .
th va is th st cl va in th cl - ca ta .
as us , we de wi th cl ta by in a ne la cl va .
th , fo ea en
as in at cl an cl , we de th at - to de on th cl va .
fo si , we ch th na ba de mo fo th ot
cl we ha a de at at : fo ea at
, th on pa of
no th we ha on de cl at fo en ty .
we co th at of re ty to th cl at of th tw as en ty .
th , fo ex , an at su as cr - or in th re
% wi de on th cl at of
no th , as th de in th ca is si -
va by de , no ag ar ne .
mo in - te , we al al di de be cl at of re en .
th , fo ex , we co al - , or vi ve .
in th ca , as th re is ma - to - ma , we us ag , as de ab .
lo a de of . / +1 ( 12
12 ( a ) sh a si mo fo a mo da , ex fr th in mo da ( im ) ( ww . im . co ) .
we se th ro is bo a cl on it ow , as we as de th re be mo an ac .
we ha ch , in th ca , no to ha th at
cr - or de on th cl of mo , bu on of ac .
12 ( b ) sh a mo fo a do of sc pa an au , de fr th co da ( mc - lu et al . , 12 ) ( co . wh . co ) .
in th ca , we se th th ci re co tw ob of th sa ty .
we ha ch to ma th cl at of th ci pa de on th cl at of th ci pa .
no th th de ap cy at th ty le .
ho , re th th mo is on a te , wh is in fo pa sk to pr an un ne fi .
12 ( c ) sh a fr of su a ne .
if we do no ha ci cy in th do , th th un - ro ne is ac , an th pr in a co pr mo ov th ra va of th sk .
( se ( fr et al . , 12 ) fo mo de . )
we ca al us la va mo to re dy cl .
co , fo ex , a do wh we ha pe an mo , an a re be th th co - re to a pe ra a mo .
in th ca , we wi ha a cl tr ra re th ac ra gi .
th at -
% , co to th re , wi th at - tr wi de on th cl at of bo . / +1 ( 12 an $& ( ' * ) , +& - , le na to a tw - si cl mo .
ho , ou ap is ex en to ac a mu ri mo , e . g . , wh we al ha ot at of pe , an pe an en re mo fo mo , su as sh in fi .
ou ap wi ta al of th in in co wh co th cl -
12 le th mo we no sh ho we le ou mo fr da .
ou tr - co of a pa in of th sc , on wh ev ex th va of so or al th cl at is gi .
we ca vi th da as a si la me - in of th mo , wi a la nu of mi - in va .
no th we ca vi th da as a se of in - pe in co to th ob in th mo .
in ou se , we ty as th th st of ou la va mo is gi , as de in se 12 .
th , ou ta is pa es .
12 pa es in th ca , we as th we ar gi th pr de - , an ne on es th pa , i . e . , th cp of th at .
a st ap is to
us ma li ( ml ) es , i . e . , to nd if we ha a co in 12
, th li fu - ti ha a un gl ma .
th ma li pa ca be fo ve ea si by co oc - cu in th da .
re th al of th ob in th sa cl sh th sa cp .
th , to es th pa fo
, we si co al ob of cl
, an co th nu of ti th ea co 12
an it pa jo ta .
th co ar kn as su st .
se ( fr et al . , 12 ) fo de .
th ca of in da is su mo co - in th ca , th li fu ha mu lo - ca ma , an no ge me ex fo nd th gl ma .
th ex ma ( em ) al - go ( de et al . , 12 ) , pr an ap fo nd a lo ma of th li fu .
st -
fo th pa , em it
th fo tw st .
th e - st co th di ov th un va gi th ob da an th be th se of
in fr an in gu cu es of th pa .
le un cl va , we co
fr wh it ca co th ex su st :
to co th po di ov th hi va - ab , we mu ru in ov th mo .
th m - st re - es th pa by ma th li wi re to th di co in th e - st .
12 be pr fo e st to pe th e st , we ne to co th po di - tr ov th un va gi ou da .
th in is ov th un ne de in se 12 .
we ca de th ta in se in ta ov th ob in th mo , as th ar al co .
( in so ca , th un ne ma ha se co co th ca be tr se ho , it wi ge co on or mo la co co . ) in ge , th un ne ca be fa co , in - vo ma ob th ar re in va wa .
ou ex , th ne in te of th of no . ) ex in ov th ne is cl im - pr , so we mu re to ap in .
th is a wi va of ap sc fo ba ne - wo .
fo va re ( so of wh ar de be - lo ) , we ch to us be pr .
be pr - ti ( bp ) is a lo me pa al in by pe ( pe , 12 ) .
it is gu to co to th co - re ma pr fo ea no on fo si co - ne ba ne .
ho , em re ( mu - ph an we , 12 ) sh th it of co in ge
ne , an wh it do , th ma ar a go ap - im to th co po .
( wh bp do no co - ve , th ma fo so no ca be ve in .
th ha ve ra in ou ex an do no af - fe co of em . )
a fa gr , wi a no
cp i . e . , if
fo ea va
we pr a br ou of on va of bp , re to ( mu an we , 12 ) fo mo de .
co a ba ne ov so se of no ( wh in ou ca wo be th va ) .
we rs co th gr in
an it pa .
tw no ar co if th ha so va in co .
th cp of
re th fa de by th
, , th is a fu fr th do of th va to th en ou is no ob
th be pr al is no ve si .
at ea it , al th fa no si se me - sa to al ot , as fo :
co th va to be a fa ov
, we ha th
ou po di is th is a no co .
is a ( di ) no co an
in th fa gr .
se of fa th ar ne of at an po in th al , ou ma di ab
th pr is re un th be co .
gi us th ma di - ti ov ea of th fa in th un ne .
th ma ar pr wh we ne fo th co of th ex su st .
af co , th
we no th oc bp do no co to al - vi th pr , we st th em al fr se di st po ( in gu ) .
as ou re in se 12 sh , th ap wo we in pr .
12 in pr ov re am th st mo fo us a re mo is it ab to mo de be re in .
as de in th in , we wo li to pr in ab on ob to he us re co ab ot , re ob .
re , se pa ha pr a pr al th li of th in pr - ag id .
ne an je ( 12 ) pr an it - ti cl al wh bu a cl ba on a fu ob re tr se th cl us bo ba at an mo re at ( e . g . , th nu of re en of a gi ty ) .
it th us th cl on a te se wh th ba at ar ob , bu th cl va ar no .
th in th ar cl - si wi hi co ar te la wi th pr cl th cl al is th re , wi th ad in .
th pr re se ti .
th cl ac is sh to im su as th pr it .
sl an mi ( 12 ) pr an ap of th id to th pr of cl we pa , e . g . , as be - in to a un st or no .
th rs tr a cl on a se of la do , an us it to cl do - me in th te se .
to cl mo do in th te se , th su co th cl of th te se pa an th re st of th te se .
as a mo - va ex , th de a sc wh th ex a pa th po to se ot pa , so of wh we cl as st ho pa .
th ap tr to id - ti th pa as a st di pa , an co th ot pa to wh it po ar al mo li to be st - de pa .
th sh th cl ac im by ex th re st .
ne of th ap pr a si co mo of th de be re ob an th co di cl st or al wi a un pr .
ou ap ac th in pr - ag ef th th pr in in by th un ba ne ov th in in ou do - ma .
fo ex , in th co do , ou ne mo co be th to of pa th ci ea ot .
th , ou be ab th to of on pa wi in ou be ab th to of it re pa .
in ge , pr in ow th ac pa in th un - ro ne , al be ab on cl to in ot to wh it is re ( di or in ) .
mo , th us of be pr im th ef di .
by pr a lo me fr on fa to an in th fa gr ne , th al pr ou be ab on va to ot va to wh it is di - re co .
we de th pr in th ne
th sp in is pa us in ou fr - wo du to th ap of th em al .
th em al co a se of mo , us th pr - bi de fr th be pr al to tr a ne mo .
he , we no on us ou pr in - fe pr to sp th in in th re st , we th us th re to co a be cl - si , wh in tu al us to ob ev be re , et .
fr a di pe , we ar us th st in th te se no on to pr be cl , bu al to le a be cl .
as we sh be , th pr - ce re in su im in ac ov th it of em .
we no th th bo ab ar ve na in th pr fr , wh it is al as wi co co gu .
we ev ou me on th co an im da se .
th st of th co da , an th mo we us , ar sh in fi .
12 ( b , c ) .
fo ou ex , we se a su of 12 pa fr th ma le - in ca , al wi 12 of th au .
th pa ar cl in se to : pr me , ne - ra ne , re le , ru le , ca - ba , an th .
au & ci ( ac ) na ba ( nb )
fi 12 : ( a ) co of cl ac ( b ) in pr in bp ( c ) ac im in em .
we ev th ab of ou al to us th re - ti st to ai in cl .
we to ou en da se , an hi th cl fo al bu a fr of th pa .
we th co ou mo ba on al of th da , in th do wh to we un - se .
th re mo wa us to cl th to fo th te do .
in ef , we ar pe a ty of tr , wh th te se is al us to tr th mo ( al wi th cl la ) .
to in ho ou me be fr ex th re st , we co fo di mo - el wh va in th am of re in th us .
th ba mo do no us re in at al .
it is a st mu na ba mo ( nb ) ov th se of wo ( ba of wo mo ) in th ab .
th fu mo ( ac ) wa sh in fi .
12 ( b ) ; it ma us of bo th au an ci .
th ot tw mo ar fr of ac : mo a in on th au in - ma ( el th ci re fr th mo ) , an mo c on ci .
al fo mo we tr us em mo nb wa tr us ex em an th ot us ou al of se 12
we in th cp fo th wo at us th cp in a na ba mo th wa tr on on th ob po of th da se .
al mo we in wi th sa cp .
we va th pe of la pa , ra fr 12 to 12 .
fo ea di pe , we te th cl ac ov ve ra tr / te sp .
th re ar sh in fi .
ea po is th av of th ac on th ve ru , an th er ba co to th st er .
as ca be se , in mo re de si im cl ac .
bo a an c ou th ba mo , an th co mo ac ac by fa th hi ac .
th lo me pa of lo be pr ( bp ) re th pr of sp th in of be fo a pa in to
as di in se 12 ,
er la pa .
up in , we ha so in fr it wo al .
ho , af th rs it , th be wi be up to re th la of th pa it ci , an is li to be mo
it re in .
fo ex , su pa ci se - be ab th to of pe ar a si va , in th co in s
in th fo it , un pa th ci ( as we as un pa th ci ) wi be up to re th in co ab th to of
, an so on .
to me th ef , we ex th be st of th to va of th un pa af ev it of lo be pr .
fo ev it , we re th fr of va wh to ca be de wi hi co , i . e . , wh be fo a si to is ab a .
12 ( b ) sh se se of th me - su on a da wi 12 la pa .
th se sh bp it pe wi th rs , th an se - en it of em .
ea se sh a gr in of th fr of pa wh to we ar co in .
th ac on th hi - co pa is fa co ov th it ar 12 , 12 , an 12 fo th rs , th an se it of em , re .
lo be pr is an ap to th in - en re fo th e st of em .
al lo bp is no gu to co , in ou ex , it ge co to a so wh is go en to al em to ma pr .
in , fi .
12 ( c ) sh th th cl - ca ac im fo ev em it .
th g - ur al de th pe im ob fr bo th re of it cl , as di in se 12
th at an re in th im da , an th la va mo we us , ar sh in ar sh in fi .
12 ( a ) ; th ge at ac re to a se of 12 bi at ( ac , co , .
no th ac an di ha al no de at an he ca - no be cl me wi co th re - ti .
we se a su of th da th co 12 mo , 12 ac , an 12 di .
in fi .
12 , we sh tw ex cl fo ea cl , li se hi co me of th cl .
in ge , cl fo mo co of mo of pr - do of a pa ge , ti pe an po .
fo ex , th rs mo cl sh ca be la as cl mu an ch lm .
th se cl co - re ro to ac / ad / sc - mo .
mo , th cl fo ac an di ar re in na , si th ar in by th mo at .
fo ex , th rs cl of ac co pr of ac
ac .
th wo wa su by on co n1 - 12 - c - 12 un da hp pr - gr .
er se wa al su by a st gr
