tw of th mo im th of wo in kn re to ar fr - ba re sy ( fr ) an ba ne ( bn ) .
fr pr an ex - ce re fo th or st of la co do , bu th ap is li be of th in to de wi un an no .
bn pr - vi an in an co pr re of ou un , bu ar ve li in th ab to ha co st do .
in th pa , we pr a la - gu th cl in th ap , pr th ad of bo .
ou ap al us to pr na an co de of pr mo fo a cl , in a wa th is lo to th cl fr .
th mo ca be in fo an se of in in , re in a co pr di ov th in pr - ti .
ou la al al us to re im ty of un th ca be ac wi th fr - wo of tr bn : un ov th se of en pr in ou mo , an un ab th re be th en .
we pr an in al fo ou la vi a re to in in st ba ne .
we de an im sy th al mo of th ma fr sy in ex to to an th kn ba wi pr in , an to us th in in an pr qu .
fr re sy ( fr ) ar cu th pr - ma te us fo la sc kn re - ti in ai ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th mo or ac to co me en an th ab to ca pa co to ma in pr a co la fo re co st do mo - el .
on of th mo si ga in th ex po of th ty of fr is it in to re an re wi un an no in .
un is un in th re wo : ou in is of in - cu an al in , an on a fe of th ru th we us fo re ar tr in al po ca .
in th pr se , th pr ha la be re ov th pa de by th de of
co 12 , am as fo ar in -
ge ( ww . aa . or ) .
al ri re .
pr re sy , an pa ba ne ( 12 ) .
a ba ne ( bn ) is a re of a fu jo di ov a se of ra va it ca be us to an qu ab an of it va gi an ev .
a bn al a co di to be re co by us th lo of in in ou mo of th wo .
bu , li al pr sy , th ap of bn is la li to si th ca be en , in ad , us a xe se of at .
th , th ar in fo la - sc co kr ta .
bu on ou re wo ( 12 , 12 ) , we pr a re - ta la th in fr - re sy an ba ne , th pr th rs br be th tw ve di th of wo in kr .
th ke co in ou re is th an of a fr wi a pr mo .
th pr mo is , br sp , a bn re a di ov th po va of th sl in th fr .
th is , ea si - pl sl in th fr is an wi a lo pr mo , re th de of it va on th va - ue of re sl .
fo ex , in a fr re a ph st , th va of th sl ye - to - gr ma de on th sl ye an th sl ch ad . pi .
as we ca se ev fr th si ex , by bu - in on st fr fu , ou ap pr si mo ex po th tr bn .
fo ex , by al th pr mo of a sl to de on a sl ch , we al th pr of on in - st in th mo to de on pr of ot re in .
we ca al us th st cl hi of th fr to al th pr mo of a cl to be us by mu in of th cl , an to al in of pr mo fr cl to su , us th sa me in wh sl va ar cu in .
fi , by ma do in rs - cl ci in ou fr we ca al ex a ne an im ty of un ca st un .
we ca ha a pr mo ex ou un ab th se of en in ou mo , e . g . , th nu of ph st in a de .
we ca al re un ab re be en , e . g . , wh of se co a pa ap in .
we pr a pr in al fo ou la ba on an ap kn as kn - ba
mo co .
th al ta a kn ba in ou la , in a se of in , an ge a st bn wh ca th be qu ef fo ou be ab th va of an sl .
ou pr mo is ex us st fr re te su as fa an va re - ti .
th pr is im , si it al ou ap to be us wi vi an fr sy , an th to an ex kb wi pr in .
pa , we ha im a sy ba on ou ap - pr , ca of in wi mo ex fr vi ok ( 12 ) , an em st fo fr in .
ou wo is a si im ov pr ap - pr to co rs - or lo an ba ne - wo .
mo of th at in th di ( e . g . , ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) ) us pr ho cl as th ba re .
th ch of ho cl as an un la al - re di so of th pr of th re , e . g . , it in to en an ob an it pr wi a co me fr .
mo , th us of st un in th fr ty ca co bl of th re mo , le mo ap to ou it en .
ou fr al ov - co so ma li of ou ea pr ( 12 , 12 ) , by al bo st un ( ab in th rs ) an pr de be in ( ab in it al pr th cr ab , ab in bo , to cr co mo co ma in th ar co to ea ot in a va of wa .
12 ba re
we be wi so ba te fo fr sy .
th te va wi fr sy to sy .
th pa we ad th la an ba kn mo of th ok pr ( 12 ) .
th ba un of di in a fr sy is a fr .
a fr ha a se of sl , ea of wh ma ha sl va or ll .
fo , a sl re a bi re on fr if th ll of sl a in fr x is fr y , th th re ax y ho .
in ge sl ma be si - va or mu - va .
in th se we as th sl ar si - va .
th as wi be re in se 12
a sl - ch is a se of ze or mo sl se by pe .
a sl - ch re a bi re : th sl - ch a : wh a is a sl an is a sl - ch de th re fx z j ax y ^ y; zg .
a sl in a fr ma ha as fa .
a fa is a te re : if th fa va of fa f on sl a in fr x is y , th th re f x; a; y ho .
a st fa is va - ty , wh sp a va re on th va of a sl .
th va - ty of a sl wi be ca it ty .
th tw ma ty of fr ar cl fr , re - in se of en , an in fr .
th cl fr ar or in an is - a hi , wh on cl ma be a su of an ( it su ) .
th sl of a cl fr ma be ow sl , wh de a pr of th cl it , an te sl , wh ar sl in by al in an su of th cl .
th fa as - ci wi te sl ar te fa , an ar al
in .
an in or su ma ov th va of in sl or fa .
pr in is in in a fr kb by an cl fr wi lo pr .
a cl fr th ha be so an is ca a p - cl .
a p - cl ha a se of te sl , ea wi a va - ty fa .
de on th ty , a sl is ei si or co .
th ty of a co sl is an p - cl .
th ty of a si sl is an ex en li of po va fo th sl .
fo ex , th ph - st p - cl ma ha a si sl ye , wh ty is f1 , 12 , 12 , 12 , te , an a co sl ad wh ty is th p - cl pr .
a p - cl ma al ha ot sl th do no pa in th pr mo , wh ty is ne of th ab .
fo ex , ph - st ma al ha th sl na , wh do no ha an as pr mo .
th fe al ex kb to be an wi pr in , wi re a co re of th on .
a si sl is ve mu li a no in a ba ne .
it ha a ra of va , a se of pa , an a cp .
a p - cl sp a pr mo fo it si sl us tw sp - pu fa : pa an di .
fa ar a na pl to pu a pr mo , si su a mo ca be vi as a ge of a va re - ti : no on do it sp a ra of po va , bu al a di ov th ra .
th pa fa li th sl on wh th va of th sl de .
ea pa is sp by a sl - ch re to so ot si sl .
mo pr , le x be a p - cl an a a si sl .
th pa fa of a is a li of sl ch 12 : : : ; n , su th x : i re to a si sl .
fo ex , in th ph - st p - cl , ye ma ha th pa ( ag ) , wh th pa of ye - to - gr ma be ye ad . pi .
th di fa sp th co pr di - tr ov va of th sl gi va of it pa .
th co di is sp us a co pr ta ( cp ) as in ba ne .
fo ea co of va of it pa , th cp pr a pr di ov va of th sl .
fo th pu - po of th pa , we as th th cp ar re as fu sp fu of pa va .
mo co re su as no - or ca ea be ac wi ou fr .
th pr mo of a co sl is si de - sc by it p - cl y .
ho , ea co sl a al ha an ad fa ca im , wh va is a li of sl in y .
th li , ca th im li of a , is th li of sl of y th ar vi wi x .
we re th if a : b : ( fo a po em sl ch ) is a sl ch ap wi x , th b mu be in th im li of a .
on a pr mo ha be sp fo a p - cl , th p - cl ca be us ju li an ot cl fr .
on ca cr in of th cl , wh wi in al of it te sl an fa .
in pa , th pr di ov va of sl of th in wi be as de - sc in th p - cl .
si , th in me of a fr sy ca be us to ma on p - cl a su of an .
a su ca ex th de of th su - cl as we as ov pa of it .
in pa , a su
ca re th pr mo of on or mo of th sl .
fo ex , we ca de as - pr be a su of pr , an ov th di ov sa to on th is ap to th mo sp cl .
an im - po as of su is th an in of a su is al an in of th su , so th it ca ll a sl wh ty is th su .
fo ex , in a pa in of ph - st , th va of th ad sl ma be sp to be an in wh cl is as - pr .
va ca be as to an ow sl of an in fr ei di or by as to a te sl at th cl le .
bo ty of as ar in in th sa wa .
an as to a si sl is in as ob th va of th sl , th co th pr di fo th in .
th co pr ma re in a ch in ou be fo ot re sl .
co , fo ex , a su gr - ph - st of ph - st wh as 12 to th sl ye - to - gr .
th th co pr wi re in a ne pr mo fo an in i of th su in pa , ou be ab i : ye an i : ad . pi wi bo ch , as wi ou be ab ot re sl .
an as to a co sl sp th th va of th sl is an pa in .
th , co ne - wo of in - re fr ca be cr , su as st wh sh an ad , an st of di ad in th sa de .
su an as at th cl le re in al of th cl in ha th sa fr as th va fo th sl .
on of th fe of a pr fr sy is th re fr ca in ea ot .
we ha al se on me fo su in : si a pa of a sl is a sl - ch , th va of a si sl ma be in pr by th va of a sl in an fr .
th me , ho , on al a fr to be in by re fr , bu no to in th in tu .
we re th di by ut a ba fe of mo fr sl .
le x an y be tw cl fr , a a sl of x wi ty y , an b a sl of y wi ty x .
th a an b ar in sl if , fo ev in i of x , if i : a = j th j : b = i , an vi ve .
th , we vi an as of a sp in fr j to a sl i : a as en th co as of i to j : b .
fo th re , we do no al as of va to sl su as a at th cl le ot , fo an gi fr j of cl y , th va of j : b wo be th se co of ev fr of cl x , a mo wh is to un to de wi .
in sl al ei of th fr to re to sl in th ot , th al pr de in bo di .
al su in de wi re co le to ho co in be - tw tw fr .
in pa , it co le to a cy ch of in th ha no co pr mo .
th , on of th tw in sl x : ai de - na to be th pr di wh th ot : bi se .
si , x is ca th pr fr , wh y is th se fr .
a pr in sl su as a in x ha a pa fa ju li a si sl , i . e . , it is a li
of sl - ch in x .
in , th pa of a ar th on sl of x th ar ex to y vi b .
mo pr , th pa li of a in x mu be id to th im li of b in y .
th , th ow of in be th tw fr is ne re : th pa of a in x ca in an of th sl in y ; so of th ca , in tu , in ot sl in x th ar do fr a .
fo ex , su we de th th th sl of ph - st sh be an in sl , wi it in be th au sl of ph - th .
th sl th is de to be pr , an is gi th pa el in ph - st .
th el is vi wi th ph - th cl , so th fo ex , ja - co ma de on au . el .
ot sl of ph - st ma de on sl of th th , fo ex , jo - pr ma de on th . qu , wh wo th ha to be on th im li of th .
in sl se a du pu in ou la .
as we sa , th al bi de be tw in .
bu th al al ou pr mo to be mu .
if , as ab , x : a an y : b ar in , an we de an in fr cl x , it im im th ex of a co in fr cl y .
al - te , we co st mo wi an ob of cl y , an gu th th co x wi ex .
th , we ca de a mo ce ar wh en ar of in to us in ou co .
in th se we pr a se fo pr fr kn ba .
fo a gi kb wi a se of cl an in fr , ou se de a pr di - ti ov th sl va of th in fr ( an of so ot re in fr ) .
in or to de a co pr di , ou fr kb mu sa se co .
th ba th of th co is fa fr th re of ba ne : ou de mo mu be ac .
ho , si th ma be co ch of de bo wi a fr an be fr , an on bo th cl an in le , we ne to de so to to re ab de .
de 12 : a de is a pa x : a y : b , wh x an y ar fr ( no ne di ) , a is a sl of x an b is a sl of y .
we sa th x : a y : b ho if a is a si sl of x , y = x an b : is a pa of a; a is a co sl of x , b is in th im li of a , an y is ei an in fr as to x : a or th p - cl fr wh is th va ty of x : a .
in , a de x : a y : b as th fo ev in fr i co wi x th ex an in fr j co wi y su th i : a de ( if x is it an in fr i , th on i is co wi x; if x is a cl , th an in of th cl is co wi x . ) no ho , th ou de of de on co th rs sl in a ch on wh a sl de th , it ma on a rs - le pa of de .
it is a co ov of th tr de mo , si if x : a y : b , it is no ne th ca th x : a de on ev sl - ch
wh it is fa st to re ou no of de , we ha fo ou de to be ad fo mo pu .
de 12 : a de ch is a li x1 : a1 x1 : a1 su th , fo ea i , xi : ai xi : ai
a de cy is a de ch th be an en wi th sa sl .
de cy re po pr wi ou ( al , as in by ou di ab , so co mo ma ap to be pr si - pl be of ou ov fo pr de - ci . ) a de cy co i : a , wh i is an in fr , co to a po ch of de - de th wh i : a de on it .
su a cy de , if it ex , pr us fr de a co pr mo .
a de cy co x : a fo so cl x me th fo ev in i1 of x th is so in i1 of x su th i1 : a de on i1 : a .
in so ca , i1 an i1 ar ne th sa in su ca ar ca tr cy .
in ot , ho , th ar di in of th cl x .
th ca ca al be pr , as th ma re an in de ch be wi i1 : a : i1 : a de on i1 : a wh de - pe on so i1 : a , et .
su mo al do no ty ha we - de pr se .
we co fr th di th we wa to di al de cy . 12 so ty of de cy ar ea to pr us pu lo co .
sp - ic , we ca bu , fo ea cl x , a de gr fo x .
th gr co al th sl of x , wi an ed fr b to a if th de x : a x : b ho .
cl , if we wa to av de cy , th gr sh be ac .
in , ou ca in de th de mo fo in sl im th if we ma al cl de gr ac , we av an tr cy de ch at th cl le .
fo , if we de a cl - le de - de ch to be on in wh al th xi ar p - cl , we ob th fo th : th 12 : if we ha a kn ba in wh al cl de gr ar ac , th th ar no tr cy cl - le de ch .
ho , as we di , ev de ch th ar no tr cy ca re in in mo .
in ad , we ha no el in - le de ch th ar tr cy .
un , th ge pr is no so ea to pr us pu lo co .
ho , we ca de wh or no th kb co a de cy by bu a mo gl di gr g , ca th de gr of th kb .
th no of g ar al x : a wh x is a p - cl or na in an a is a sl of x .
th is an ed fr y : b to x : a if th de x : a y : b ho .
cl , th kb co a de cy if g is cy .
fo a kb th co no de cy , ou go no is to de a pr di ov in
12 th we ar no di in re ch ( ch of re in ) , un th im in de
to fr , i . e . , as of va to th sl of th fr .
se is co to ma su a de di .
th mo ob id is to fo th ap ta in th se of ba ne : we de a se of ra va , an de a di ov th jo va sp .
un , ou fr is to ri to ma th ap ap .
as we me , th se of in fr th we ca po re to ma be in .
wh on mi be ab to ci th pa - ul pr , a mo se on ma wh we en ou la wi st un in se 12 an 12
th , th se of in fr ca al va pr - ca , in a wa th bo de on an in th va of ot ra va in th mo .
we th de ou se vi a da ge pr , th ra sa va fo th va fr in th mo .
th ra sa pr im de - ne a di ov th di po va as - me : th pr of a va as is th pr wi wh it is ge by th pr .
no th , al a ra sa pr ca al be us as a st al fo ap in , we ar no pr th ap ou sa pr is pu a th ex - pe fo de th di .
in se 12 , we sh ho a mo st pr of ex in ca be us to ef an qu re to th di .
th sa pr bu va as to sl of fr in , as th di co ar re - qu .
by al su pa as , we by th pr of go of on in sa ch .
th as of ni de ch gu th th sa ch re to sa th va of an si sl wi al te .
de 12 : a pa va fo an in fr is an as of va ( of th ap ty ) to so su of it si sl , an as of in fr ( fr th ap p - cl ) to so su of it co sl , an a pa va fo ea of th as in .
on na su ar in th sa co .
so in fr ma ha sp va pr - as to so of th th sl .
su an as ca be do vi an ex st fo a na in fr , or vi a pr of in fr a te sl of a cl to wh th in be .
as we ex in se 12 , th se - ma of su as is to co th di .
to ob th ri se , we ma th ob mo - ca to ou da ge pr .
if , du th sa pr , a va is ge fo a sl wh is in wi th ob va , we si di th en pa va ge up to th po .
it is ea to se ( 12 ) th th re pr wi wh a pa va is ge - at in th da ge pr is ex th sa as it pr co on th ob sl va .
as we di , ou sa pr bu up a pa - ti va pi by pi , as th pi ar ne .
ou ma pr , sh in fi 12 , is sa ( i , a ) , wh sa th va of a si si sl a of a si in fr i .
in or to sa a fr th co di , it mu ba ch an sa ot sl on wh th
if a ha a va in th re fo pa of a if is a sl b in i th el / * is of th fo : c * / le j : = co ( i , )
ch a va v fo a ac to p a j pa ex wi i : a = v if a ha a pr - as va v th if v = v th fa
if is em th / * is of th fo b : * / if i : b is as a va j in th le k : = j el if i : b is pr - as a va j th ex wi i : b = j le k : = j le y be va - ty ( b ) cr a ne in k of p - cl y ex wi i : b = k if b ha an in b in k th ex wi k : b = i re co ( k , )
fi 12 : da ge sa mo
if th de gr is ac ,
va of a de .
co ( i , ) de th va of th co sl - ch i : , if ne cr ne in fr to re th va of co sl .
wh th pr re , th pa va ( a gl va in th pr ) co a va fo i : a .
le 12 : sa ( i , a ) , ex fr a pa va de a pr di ov ex of wi a va as - si to i : a .
fu , th di no de on th or in wh th pa of a ar ex .
pr : th ba st in th pr ar as fo .
to pr th rs pa of th th , it su to sh th th sa - pl al te .
th pr pr us a si - pl in ar ov th le of de ch .
to pr th th di is in of th or , we ob th a si sl is al ge fr th sa co di , re of wh it is sa , an th th fa co ar al ap un .
we ca no de a sa pr th us sa ( i , a ) to sa va fo th sl of al na in in th kb .
if an ca to sa fa , th en sa pr ne to be re .
on a va ha be as to al si sl of na in , we ha ac fo al ev in th mo , an th fu sa of ot sl ca po fa .
th th di we ha ob ov th sl we ha sa is th na on .
th 12 : if th de gr is ac th sa - pl de a pr di ov pa va wh ha va as to al si sl i : a fo al na in i .
12 mu sl an nu un to th po , we ha as th ev sl is si - va .
ho , sl th ta on mu va ar a fu co in fr sy .
th ai - pr p - cl ma ha a mu - va pa sl of ty ai - pa .
to si ou di , we re mu - va sl to be co , an al va of th sl mu be of th sa p - cl , as sp in th sl va - ty .
to al ot sl in a fr x to de on th pr - er of a mu - va sl a , we mu pr a wa fo a
sl to de on a se of sl .
as th el in th se ca be re to in , we mu re in to th pr of th se .
de 12 : a qu sl fo a mu - va sl a ha th fo a : : e , a : : e , na : : e or na : : e , wh is a sl ch of a an e is an el of th va ty of a : .
th va - ty of a qu sl is th se ft fa .
gi a se of va fo a , th va of a qu sl on a : b ha pr th me th on wo ex fo ex , if fo at le 12 va i of th pa sl i : im ha th va hi , th th va of 12 . im hi is tr .
no th th cp of a qu sl is we - de fo an nu of va of it mu - va sl .
on th ot ha , no ot sl ca de di on th mu - va sl , th av th pr of de ge cp wi a va nu of pa .
a qu sl , on th ot ha , is tr in th sa wa as a si sl , so it ma be us as a pa of an sl .
th , fo ex , th wi - ge - te sl of th as - pr cl ma de on th ab qu sl .
so fa , we ha no sp th nu of va th a gi mu - va sl ca ta .
in ma ca , e . g . , th nu of pa , th nu is no xe .
th , we wo li to be ab to mo si in wh di nu of pa ar po , an to re ou be in th va po .
in ot wo , we wo li to al st un ov th se of en in th wo an th re be th .
un ov th nu of va of a mu - va sl is a ty of st un ca nu un .
we ca ex ou la to re nu un - ta by as wi ea mu sl a of x a ne nu sl nu , wh ra ov so se of na nu f1 12 : : : ; ng ( we as th th nu of va of ev sl is bo ) .
th sl nu is tr ju li an ot si sl it ha pa an di fa th de it pr mo .
th , th nu of va of a in x ca de on va of ot sl of x an of re fr , an it ca al be th pa of an sl .
fo ex , ai - pr wi ha a nu sl , wh va ra fr 12 to 12 nu ma de on pr an in tu in ti .
as wi th ca of si - va sl , a sp va i ma be as fo a mu - va sl a of bo a p - cl an a na in .
we in su as as as th on of as va is i .
it do no pr a fr ha ot va in fa , mu va ma be as fo th sl .
su as do no el ou nu un fo th sl , bu an ca wh th sl ha fe th th nu of as ll is el th , we mu co nu to be at le th as nu .
to as th a ha on th va me , we wo ne to ex as a va fo nu .
it is in to ex th in be mu - va sl an in .
as th th ad sl ha an in ad wi th ph - st fr .
if we no ha a st in fr i , th we au as at le on va va if th ad sl in th
in fr i : ad .
th , ev if we ha no ot in wh ab th in fr , it wi no be a ge me of th pr cl .
th ve fa th th pr is so ad mo it di by co it on th fa th nu 12
no th th in sl ma al be mu - va .
ma - ma re gi ri to po in re ch .
fo ex , a pa ma ha se au , wh ha al wr se pa , an so on .
ho , du to th re on th ow of in be pr an se in , an in re ch of th so ca le to an in de ch .
nu un ca be in in ou se qu ea .
we ne to ad nu an qu sl in th de gr .
nu sl ar tr ju li si sl : th is an ed in x : nu fo ea of th pa of nu in x .
if x : q is a qu sl ov x : a , th is an ed fr x : a to x : q .
fi , we mu ma th va of x : a de bo on x : nu an th pr it im fr ea of it ll .
if x : a im b , th we ha x : a y : b , wh y is th ty of a , an x : a i : b fo ev as va i of x : a .
th sa pr ca ea be mo to ac fo mu - va sl .
wh a mu - va sl a ne to be sa fo th rs ti , we sa rs a va n fo nu .
le m be th nu of as va fo a .
if n m , th sa fa .
ot , n ( ci : 12 ) m ne in of th ty of a ar cr , an th se of va of a is se to be th m as ll an th n ( ci : 12 ) m ne in .
th 12 co to ho .
12 re un
as we sa , st un al us to re di - tr ov mo wi di st .
nu un - ce al us to va th se of in in ou mo .
in th se , we de re un , wh al - lo us to va th re be th in .
fo ex , we ma wa th co sl of th ai - pa cl to be aa wi pr 12 , an an ge ai co wi pr 12 no th aa is no th va of a si sl , bu an in fr it .
we ex ou la to ac re un by al so co sl to be in .
ea in sl a is as wi a re sl re a , a si sl wh va di th va of th in sl .
de 12 : if a is an in sl of ty y in p - cl x , th re a is a si sl in x wh va ty is an en se r , ea of wh va is ei : a na in of ty y , a sl - ch of x wh ty is y , or th cl y it .
in an in i of x , th va of a is de in te of th va of re a : if th va of re a is a na in j , i : a = j; if th va of re a is a sl - ch , th i : a = i : ; if re a is th p - cl y , th th va of a is a ne in of y .
a re sl is tr ju li an ot si sl , so it ha pa an a cp , an ca in ot si sl .
a va ca be as to a re sl fr
wi it va - ty , an th va of th in sl wi be de by it .
an in sl is tr li an ot si - va co sl it ha an im li , an ot sl ca de on th sl it im .
fo te re , we do no al di as to in sl , no do we al th to ha in .
as wi nu un , re un ca be in qu ea in ou se .
we ne to ad re an in sl to th de gr .
a re sl is tr li an ot si sl th , it on de ar on it pa .
an in sl a cl de on re a , so we ha a re a .
si a is a co sl , it al de on th sl th it im .
ho , be of re un , we do no kn th fr fr wh it im th sl .
le b be so sl on th im li of a .
to be sa , we ne to ac fo ev po va of re a .
th , fo ea r , if is a na in i , we ha x : a i : b; if is a sl ch c : , we ha x : a x : c; if is th cl y , we ha x : a y : b , de th fa a ma im b fr so in of y .
th sa pr re a sm ch to as - co to de wi in sl .
wh as is ca wi an in sl , we rs sa th va of th co re sl in th us ma , an th as th va of th in sl in th ma de - mi by th va of th re sl .
wi th ch , th 12 co to ho .
in th pr se , we pr a re la - gu an se fo pr fr sy .
to co th st , we no pr a si in al - go fo an pr qu in su a sy - te .
ou al ha an in - ba qu , i . e . , qu ab th va of sl of in .
fo si , we re at to si sl of na in , as ot qu ca ea be re to th .
th al , ca co , is ba on kn - ba mo co ( 12 ) , th pr of ta a kb an de a bn b re th sa pr mo .
st bn in ca th be us to an qu .
no in th ba ne b ha th fo i : : a wh i is an in fr ( no ne na ) , is a po em sl ch , an a is a si sl .
th al by ba ch al de ch , co th ap no in th bn if th do no al ex .
mo sp , th al ma an op li l of no to be pr .
in , l co on th si sl of na in .
in ea it , th al re a no fr l , an pr it .
wh a no is re fr l , it is pr in on of th wa : as a si sl , as a sl ch , or as a qu sl .
si sl i : a ar pr as fo .
fo ea pa - en i : , an ed is ad fr i : to i : a by a ca to ad ( i : a , i : ) ; if i : is no al in b , th ro - ti ad i : to b an l .
( no th th pa li of an si no - qu sl is xe . ) wh al pa ha be ad , th cp is co fr th di fa
a sl ch i : b : is pr as fo :
if b is in th if b is as a va j in i th k = j el k = xi : b , wh x is th ty of b in i se cp of i : b : to co th va of k : es , if b is as a na in j in i , th i : b = j .
ot , i : b = xi : b , an in of x th do no ap an el in th kb ro , xi : b se th ro of a sk fu .
ei wa , th va of i : b is kn to be so ot fr k , so th i : b : is eq to k : .
we ma k : a pa of i : b : , an de th cp to en th eq .
th in no al th sl ch ar in to mo th ow of va th co sl .
th ar ne be th ow be co wh th ch co in sl .
in va th ar sp ca ea be el in a si po - pr ph .
if b is in , th th va of i : b co be on of se fr , de on th va of th re sl i : re b .
fo an va of i : re b , le k de th fr wh is th va of i : b .
th va of i : b : is eq to th va of k : .
in ot wo , i : re b se th va of i : b : fr a se of po .
th , th no i : b : is a mu no ( 12 ) ; it ha as pa th no i : re b an al no k : b : , an it us th va of i : re b to se , as it va , th va of on of it fo ea va of i : re if is a na in j th k = j if is th sl ch th k = i : if is th cl y th k = y i : c se cp fo i : b : to se th va of ki : b : it re to de wi th ca in by nu un .
si a mu - va sl a ca on be us by qu sl , th ar th on sl wh we ne to co .
co a qu sl i : q ov a : .
th va of i : q is fu de by i : nu an th va of in ea of th po va of a .
le n be th ma nu of su va , an su th a is as m va j1 : : : ; jm in i .
in ad to th , th ca be up to n ( ci : 12 ) m ot in th ar va fo a; we bu a fr fo ea of th , jm + 12 : : : ; jn .
th no i : q de on i : nu an on th ap su of th va ji : ; i . e . , if nu is k , th on j1 : : : ; jk wi in i : q .
th ex fo of th de wi de on th fo of th qu .
fo ex , a qu - er sl wi be a de co of th ap su of it pa .
pr ( i : q ) / * a qu ov a : * / le n be th ma va of i : nu le j 12 : : : ; j m be th as va to i : a fo i = m + 12 to n j i = xi : a , wh x is th ty of i : a
fi 12 : pa of th co bn fo pr .
gu te ca .
mo fo on tw of th ft po pa ar sh .
pa ( i ) is sh fo pa ( gu . pa ) ( i ) , an co ( i ) is sh fo co ( pa ( gu . pa . co ) ( i ) ) .
th bn co fo
fo i = 12 to n ad ( i : q , j i : ) se th cp fo i : q to de on j 12 : ; : : : ; j nu : to il th al , fi 12 sh pa a kb co th te ca of on pr .
gu , an in of ai - as - pr .
th no gu . wi - ge - te de on gu .
12 ( pa . im : hi ) .
th la is a qu sl , so it ha as pa gu : nu an th im sl of ea of th 12 po pa .
no , as th th cl pa ha im de on co . pr .
th de is du fo ea of th 12 po pa - pe .
th sl co is in , so th fo ea i ( us th sh of th gu ) pa ( i ) . co . pr ha th pa pa ( i ) . re ( co ) an th pr sl of th po va of th re , wh ar aa an co ( i ) .
lo ov th ov st of th al , we se th th is a co be th st of th de gr g an th of th bn b .
we ca de - ne a ma fr no of b to no of g as fo : i : a : is i : a if i is a na in , an x : a ot - wi fo x th p - cl of i .
in , th no x : a in g is a re fo al th no i : a wh i is a ge in of x .
le 12 : if th is an ed fr no 12 to no 12 in b , th th is an pa fr 12 to 12 in g .
in ot wo , g se as a te fo th de in b .
ma ed in b ma ma to th sa pa in g , bu an cy or in de in b wi ne ma to a cy in g ( be g is ni ) .
th pr is th ba fo th fo th .
if th de gr is ac , co - st te an th co ba ne is ac .
th co al pr us wi an al sp - ic fo th di de by a pr fr kb .
in , th bn co to th pr di de by th kb .
in pa , th cp of a nu sl ca as a po pr to nu = 12 , de th fa th on or mo va ha be as fo a in th
in or fo b to re th di de by ou se , we mu co it on al of ou ob .
sp , we as th va fo an si sl wh va wa as in th kb , an lo bo on th va of nu co to th nu of va as fo a ( in in vi in ) .
th 12 : le s be th se of si sl of na in , an e th ev on si sl an nu sl de fr th kb .
th pr j e is th sa as th di ov s de by ou se .
we ha im ou ap wi a sy th co th fo fu : a gr ne - ba ed / br ca be us to an a fr kb wi th fa en it pr mo .
th ed - to / br in wi th un fr us ok , th al it us wi ma of th ex fr sy ( e . g . , ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) ) .
ou in co al co to th fr vi ok it ex th re in ab fr , in , an th pr mo , co th bn co to th kb , an ut th bn to an - sw pr qu .
th sy ha be in su wi th on fr sy ( 12 ) an wa us fo re si mo of ve mo pa in a mi se .
ou ex wi th sy - te sh th ev ve si mo wi th or fo si p - cl co be us to ge fa co bn ( wi hu of no ) in se in
12 di an co
in th pa , we ha de th rs in be tw of th mo do th of wo in kr .
ou la - gu pr a cl sy be th pr re co an st fr re ca - it .
fr th pe of fr sy , ou sy al ex fr kb to be an wi pr mo , gr in th ab of fr sy to ex - pr me kn in re - wo ap .
we ha al pr an in al ca of an - in pr qu ab in , th pr a si in to th in ab of su sy .
fr th pe of pr mo , ou la pr th to fo th co of pr fo ve la co do , si sc up ou ab to do un re .
ou la ha gi us th ex ca of cr - at hi ex pr mo wi st un .
cl , we ha on sc th su of th id .
fo ex , it is ea to ad un ov th ty of an ob , e . g . , to de a pr di - ti wi wh a pr is an as , as , an fu pr .
it is al ea to co nu an re un , al , fo ex , th ad of a st to be se fr th se of fa me in th cs de .
th ar tw of ma po ex th ca no be co .
an im is wh we ha pa re is th in pr fo pr fr - ba mo - el .
we ha sh ho we ca re th pr to th of
re in a st bn , bu th ap do no ma fu us of th st en in ou re .
pa , it fa to ex en of fr wi ot fr an th re of cl mo am se ob .
th id ar pu to go us in ( 12 , 12 ) , an it is an im re to to ap th in ou ri fr - wo .
we be th by ex th fe in ou in as we as in ou re , we wi be ab to ef re an re in la un do .
ac th wo wa su by on co - tr n1 - 12 - c - 12 un da hp pr , by da co da - 12 - c - 12 un su to in ex an tr , in . , an th th ge of th po fo an th sl fo -
