es th re si of co qu th in se on mu - ti at an th jo of se re is a di bu fu ta in da qu pr .
it ar in co - ba qu op - ti , qu pr , an ap qu an .
in th pa , we sh ho pr gr mo ca be ef us fo th ta as an ac an co ap of th jo fr di - tr of mu at ac mu re .
pr re - la mo ( pr ) ar a re de th ex gr st mo su as ba ne to re do .
th re th st de be at wi a ta , an be at ac fo - ke jo .
we pr an ef al - ri fo co a pr fr a da , an sh ho a pr ca be us to co se es fo a br cl of qu .
on of th ma co of th wo is a un fr fo th es - ti of qu in bo se an fo - ke jo op .
fu , ou ap is no li to an a sm se of pr - de qu a si mo ca be us to ef es th si of a wi co of po qu ac mu ta .
we pr re fo ou ap on se re - wo da .
fo bo si - ta mu - at qu an a ge cl of se - jo qu , ou ap pr mo ac es th st ap to se es , us co sp an ti .
ac es of th re si of qu ar cr to se - er qu pr co of a da ma sy - te ( db ) .
co - ba qu op us in re si es to ch th op qu ex pl .
qu pr pr fe to a db us du th qu de - si ph by pr re co an di of qu re .
pr se es al al ef lo ba fo pa jo on mu sy .
se es ca al be us to ap an co ( ag -
th re si of a se qu ov mu at is de - te by th jo fr di of th va of th at .
th jo di en th fr of al
pe to ma di or ha co of al or pa of th wo fo pe or cl us is gr wi fe pr th co ar no ma or di fo pr or co ad an th co be th no an th fu ci on th rs pa .
to co ot , to re , to po on se or to re to li , re pr sp pe an / or a fe .
ac si 12 ma 12 - 12 , sa ba , ca , us co 12 ac 12 - 12 - 12 - 12 / 12 / 12 . . . $1 .
co of at va , so re it ex be in as th nu of at an va in .
mo co sy ap th jo di by ad se ke as th as al fa co of se es , bu , as ma ha no , th es ca be ve in .
th rs co as is th at va in as , un wh th di of in at ar in of ea ot an th jo di is th pr - uc of si - at di .
ho , re da of co - ta st co be at th vi th as - ti , le to ve in ap .
fo ex a ce - su da mi co hi co at su as in - co an ho - ow .
th at va in as - ti wo le to an ov of th re si of a qu th as fo lo - in ho - ow .
a se co as is th jo un as - ti , wh st th a tu fr on re is eq li to jo wi an tu fr th se re .
ag , th ar ma si in wh th as is vi .
fo ex - pl , as th ou ce da ha a se ta fo on pu .
hi - in in ty ma mo on pu th av .
th , a tu in th pu ta is mo li to jo wi a tu of a hi - in in , th vi th jo un as .
if we co a qu fo pu by hi - in in , an es pr th ma th jo un as is li to su un th qu si .
to re th as , we ne a mo re ap , th ta in co th jo di ov mu at - tr , ra th th di ov th at in is - ti .
se ap to jo di ap , al re to as da re , ha be pr re se ( 12 ) fo an ex su of th ar .
mo of th wo ha fo - cu on th ta of es th se of a se op th se se wi a si ta .
on si ap - pr fo ap th qu si is vi ra sa .
he , a se of sa is ge , an th th qu re si is es by co th ac qu re si re to th sa da .
ho , th am of da re fo ac es ca be qu la .
mo re , se ap ha be pr th at to ca th jo di ov at mo di .
th ea of th is th mu - me hi ap of po an io ( 12 , 12 ) .
th pr an ex ex of th ta of me fo co mu hi an st th ef - ti of di te .
th al pr an ap ba on si va de , ap on in th tw -
di ca .
a ne ap is th us of wa to ap - pr th un jo di ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
mu le wo ha be do on es th se of jo .
co db co ma th un jo as - su .
on ap th ha be su is ba on ra - do sa : ra sa th tw ta , an co th jo .
th ap is aw in se wa ( 12 ) , an so wo ha be de to al ap th ge sa in a mo ta wa ( 12 ) .
an al re ap is th wo of ac et al .
( 12 ) on jo sy , wh ma st fo a fe di jo .
to ou kn , no wo ha be do on ap th su se es fo qu co bo se an jo op in re - wo do -
in th pa , we pr an al ap fo th se - ti es pr , ba on te fr th ar of pr gr mo ( 12 , 12 ) .
as we wi sh , ou ap - pr ha se im ad .
fi , it pr a un - fo fr fo se se es an fo - ke jo se es , in a sy me fo es - ti th si of qu in bo op .
se , ou ap is no li to an a sm se of pr qu a si st mo ca be us to ef es - ma th si of an ( se fo - ke jo ) qu , ov an se of ta an at in th da .
pr gr mo ar a la fo co re - re co jo di ov hi - di sp .
th ar ba on a gr no th en co in be at in th di .
co in ar wh tw at ar co , bu th in - te is me vi on or mo ot va .
fo ex - pl , in a ce da , ed is co wi in , an ho - ow st is co wi in .
he , ed is co wi ho - ow st , bu on in vi th in - co le .
in of th ty ar ex co in re do .
pr gr mo ex th co in - de th ex in a do , an th al us to sp jo di ov hi di sp co .
in th pa , we pr a fr fo us pr gr mo to es se of qu in a re da .
as we sh , ba ne ( bn ) ( 12 ) ca be us to re th in be at in a si ta , pr - vi hi - qu es of th jo di ov th at - tr in th ta .
pr re mo ( pr ) ( 12 ) 12 ex ba ne to th re se .
as we sh , pr al us to re sk in th jo pr be ta , as we as co be at of tu jo vi a fo - ke .
th th al us to es se of qu in bo se an jo ov mu ta .
li mo se es al , ou al co - si of tw ph .
th of ph , in wh th pr is co - st fr th da .
th pr is au , ba so on th da an th sp al to th st mo .
th se , on ph , is th se es fo a pa qu .
th se es re as in a qu an a pr , an ou an es fo th re si of th qu .
no th th sa pr is us to es th si of a qu ov an su of th at in th da we ar no re to ha pr in ab th qu wo .
th te pr re mo ha tw ve di me in tw di co : th pr mo co ( 12 ) an th da co ( 12 , 12 ) .
we us th te in it fo se .
th th pa , we ma tw im as .
th rs is th fo ke ob re in .
th as ab th da is re in th co of th pr .
th se is th al jo ar eq jo be a fo ke an a pr ke .
th as is ma pu fo ea of pr - ta .
wh qu wi fo - ke jo st to be mo fr th pr mo th we pr , ou me ar no li to de wi th qu an we de ho to ex ou ap to a br cl of jo in se 12
th re of th pa is st as fo .
in se 12 , we co th ca of se es fo se op ov a si ta .
we de ba ne , an sh ho th ca be us to ap th jo di ov th en - ti se of at in th ta .
in se 12 , we mo to th mo co ca of qu ov mu ta .
we pr th pr fr , wh ge ba ne to th re ca , an sh ho we ca us pr to ac bo se an jo se es in a si fr .
in se 12 , we pr an al fo au co a pr fr a re da .
in se 12 , we pr em va of ou ap , an co it to so of th mo co ex - is ap .
we pr ex ov se re - wo do , sh th ou ap pr mu hi ac - ra ( in a gi am of sp ) th pr ap , at a ve re co co , bo of an on .
es fo si ta
we rs co es th re si fo se qu ov a si re .
fo mo of th se , we re at to do wh th nu of va fo ea at is re sm ( up to ab 12 ) , an to qu wi eq pr of th fo at = va .
ne of th re is a fu - da li of ou ap at th en of th se , we di ho ou ap ca be ap to do wi la at va sp an to ra qu .
de wi th no fr di
be so ta we us . * to de th va ( no - ke ) .
we de th jo fr di - .
it is co to
, an th se as th va of
th tr al us to tr as a pr - ab di .
we ca al vi th jo di as ge by an im pr , wh we sa a tu pl pr us to de me us it as a wa of de
( no th we ar no su th th sa - be ca ou in pr .
we ar
no , co a qu . * , wh is a co of se of th fo #$ be th ev th th eq in th si of th re of th qu
ov a se of at
it is cl th
is th nu of tu sa th pr , re to ' .
to si no , we wi of si us .
as th si of th re is kn , th jo pr di co al th ne in fo qu si es .
he , we fo at on th jo pr di .
, of th ev $
un , th nu of en in th jo di gr ex in th nu of at , so th ex
re th jo di is al al in .
se ap ha be pr to ci th is by ap th jo di ( or pr of it ) us a mo co st ( 12 , 12 ) .
we al pr th us of st - ti mo th ap th fu jo di .
ho in or to re th di in a co ma , we ex th co in th of ho in a jo di ov re - wo da .
by de th re of a jo di in fa th ca th in th ho in th do , we ge a co re fo th di .
12 co in co a si re wi th fo th va at - tr , ea wi it va do sh in pa : ed - ti ( hi - sc , co , ad - de ) , in ( lo , me , hi ) , an ho - ow ( fa , tr ) .
as sh , we wi us th rs le in ea of th na to de th at , us ca le fo th at an lo ca le fo pa to de a pr di - va of th at .
we us bu ov th po va of at th pr of th ev
as th th jo di of at va in a da is as sh in fi .
us th jo di , we ca co - pu th se of an qu ov .
as sh , we wi us
to de a se qu of th fo
ho , to ex re th jo di we ne to st 12 nu - be , on fo ea po co of va fo th at .
( in fa , we ca ge aw wi 12 nu be we kn th th en in th jo di mu su to 12 )
th si
in ma ca , ho , ou da wi ex a ce st th al us to ( ap ) re th di us a mu mo co fo .
th in is th so of th co - ti be at mi be in on , me by ot at .
fo ex , th ef of ed on ow a ho mi be me by in : a hi - sc dr wh ow a su in st is mo li to ow a ho th a hi ed be bu th in is th do fa , no th ed .
th as is fo by th st th ho - ow is co in of ed gi
, we ha th :
in , i . e . , fo ev co of va
th as ho fo th di of fi
th co in as al us to re th jo di mo co in a fa fo .
ra , we wi re : th ma di - ; a co di of in - tr ov ed ; an a co di co gi ed of ho - ow gi in .
it is ea to ve th th re co al of th in in th or - in jo di , if th co in as
wh th la eq fo fr th co in .
in ou ex , th jo di ca be re us th th ta sh in fi .
it is ea to ve th th do en pr th sa jo di as in fi
th st re fo th fa re se to
, as be .
in fa , if we ac fo th fa
th so of th pa ar re be th nu
mu ad up to 12 , we ge ! ! " #$ , as co to th &% we ha in th fu jo .
wh th sa in th ca ma
no se pa im , th sa gr ex as th nu of at in , as lo as th nu of di de re bo .
no th th co in as is ve di - fe fr th st at in as .
in th ca , fo ex , th on - di hi ( i . e . , ma di ) fo th th at ar sh in fi .
it is ea to se th th jo di th we wo ob fr th at in as in th ca is ve di fr th tr un jo di .
it is al im to no th ou co in as is co wi th st co th ex be ho - ow an ed in th di .
th , co in is a mu we an mo ex as th st ( ma )
12 ba ne
ba ne ( 12 ) ar co gr re fo hi - di jo di .
th ex th th un - de st of th do th fa th on a fe as of th do af ea ot di .
we de ou pr - it sp as th se of po as to th se of at .
bn ca co re a jo
by ut a st th ca co in am at , th ta ad - ta of th lo of pr in .
of a re
a ba ne '
co of tw co .
th rs , is a di ac gr wh no co .
th ed in th gr de a di - to th at
re de of an at gr st en a se of co in as - su : ea no is co in of it no - de gi it pa .
on it pa pa
12 ( a ) sh a ba ne co ( au ) fr da ob fr th 12 cu po su of u . s .
ce bu us th da ex sy ( 12 ) .
in th ca , th ta co 12 at : ag , wo - cl , ed - ti , ma - st , in , ra , se , ch - su , ea , ch , in , an em - ty .
th do si fo th at ar , re : 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , an 12
we se , fo ex , th th ch at ( re wh or no th ar ch in th ho ) de on ot at - tr on vi th at in , ag , an ma - st .
th , ch is co in of al ot at gi in , ag , an ma - st .
th se co of a bn de th st re - it co of a co - sh be ea no an it pa .
ti pr di ( cp ) ea at , wh sp th di ov th va of gi an po as of va to it pa .
th cp ma be re in a nu of wa .
it ma be re - se as a ta , as in ou ea ex .
al , it ca be re as a tr , wh th in ve re sp , an th le co di - on th va of so pa of .
in th re , we nd th bu ov th va of co di ov gi a pa ch of va -
fo it pa by fo th ap pa in th tr do to a le : wh we en a sp on so va 12 , we go do th br co - in to th va of $1 ; we th us th di st at th
h m f c m f a m f
fi 12 : ( a ) th jo pr di fo a si ex .
( b ) a re of th jo di th ex co in .
( c ) th si - at pr hi .
* ' ' 12 &%
$ , 12 / +* " +
% *+ %
fi 12 : ( a ) a ba ne fo th ce do .
( b ) a tr - st cp fo th ch no gi it pa in , ag an ma - st .
th cp tr fo th ch at in th ne of fi .
12 ( a ) is sh in fi .
th po va fo th at - tr ar n / a , ye an no .
we ca se , fo ex , th th k ! k , an di ov ch gi in j ; th di -
n , an ma - st bu gi in j , ag m , as is th di gi in j n , an ma - st
th co in as as wi th , to wi th cp as wi th no , un de a jo pr di ov th at vi th
ti le to th sa in pa do th tr .
wi : th tw in -
, ag m
, ag m
( th fo is pr an to th on we us in eq .
( 12 ) fo ou si ex fr se 12 . ) th , fr ou co mo , we ca re th jo di we do no ne to re it ex .
in ou ex ab , th nu of en in th fu jo di is ap 12 bi , wh th nu of pa in ou bn is 12 si re !
12 bn fo qu es
ou co in as co to eq co on th jo di in th da ta .
in ge , of co , th eq wi ra ho ex .
in fa , ev if th da wa ge by in ge ra sa - pl fr a di th sa th co in ( or ev un in ) as , th di de fr th fr in ou da wi no sa th as - su .
ho , in ma ca we ca ap th di - tr ve we us a ba ne wi th ap st .
we de a lo di of th is to se 12
a ba ne is a co re of a fu jo di .
he , it im co th an to an qu ab th pr of an as of va to a se of at - ca ea us it to es su th ou qu ( he we ab a mu se us ve no ) .
th we ca co -
tr .
th , if we co a bn '
ha th fo
fo an qu
of co , ge th fu jo di
) ca be co -
pu ve ex , an is al al in in th ru se in wh qu si is ty es .
th , we ne a mo ef al fo co al th pr of co th pr is np - ha in th wo ca , bn in is ty ve ef fo ne st en in pr .
th st bn in al - go ( 12 ) us sp - pu gr - ba al th ex - pl th gr st of th ne .
th co of th al de on ce na pa re to th co of th gr .
th pa ar ty sm fo mo re - wo mo , al ve ef in fo ma ne wi hu of no or mo ( 12 , 12 ) .
at th st of th se , we ma se as .
we no de ho to re th as .
fi , we ma th as th ou se op us on eq pr .
it is st to ex th te th we ha ju de - sc fo co th pr of an as of va to a se of at to ha ra qu by co th pr - ab th an as of va to th at fa in th ra .
we si su ov al po va as sa - fy th ra co .
wh at rs gl , th ma so qu ex , th bn in al de ab ca be ea ad to co th va wi an in in co co .
th se im as th we ha be ma is th th do fo th at ar sm to mo si .
we ca li th re on ou bn by us te th ha be de fo di of do va ( 12 , 12 ) .
in ca wh do va ar no or , we ca us fe hi if th ar av ( 12 ) or we ma us an of a nu of cl al .
on we ha bu a bn ov th di or ab at va sp , we mu no mo ou qu es te to pr es fo qu ov th ba le va .
on me fo do th is to si co th se es fo an ab qu , wh ma th ba le va to th ap di or ab va , an to th co an es fo th ba le qu by as a un di wi th re .
jo se es
in th pr se , we re at to qu ov a si ta .
in th se , we ex ou ap to de wi qu ov mu ta .
we re at to da sa - is re in : le be a fo - ei ke in fo ev tu .
th th pa , we re at to fo .
we wi us th te
th re to so ta wi pr ke l
th mu be so tu
be a ta , an le
ke jo jo of th fo ke as a sh fo th ty of jo .
12 jo tw ta
co a me da wi tw ta : pa , co - in tu ( tb ) pa , an co , co pe wi wh a pa ha ha co , an wh ma or ma no be in - fe wi th di .
we mi be in in an qu in a jo be th tw ta .
fo ex , we mi be in in th fo qu : pa . ag = 12 an co - ta . pa = pa . pa - id an co . co = ro , i . e . , nd al pa wh ag is ov 12 wh ha ha co wi a ro .
a si ap to th pr wo pr as fo : by re in , ea tu in co mu jo wi ex on tu in .
th , th si of th jo re ,
pr to th se , is .
we th co th pr
of pa . ag = 12 an th pr ro , an es th si of th re qu as
of co . co =
th na ap is aw in tw wa .
fi , th at of th tw di ta ar of co .
in ge , fo - ei ke ar of us to co tu in di ta th ar se re , an he th at of tu re th fo ke jo ar of co .
fo ex , th is a cl co be th ag of th pa an th ty of co th ha in fa , el pa wi ro ar qu ra , an th na ap wo ov th nu .
se , th pr th tw tu jo wi ea ot ca al be co wi va at .
fo ex , mi - ag pa ty ha mo co th ol pa - ti .
th , wh th jo si of th tw ta , pr to th se on pa ag , is , th fr of th jo tu - pl wh th pa is ov 12 is lo th th ov fr of pa ov 12 wi th pa ta .
we ad th is by pr a mo ac mo of th jo di of th tw ta .
co tw ta .
we de a jo pr an us an im sa pr th ra - an in sa a tu do sa a tu .
th tw tu ma or ma no jo wi ea ot .
we in a ne jo in va to mo th ev
, is bi va it is tr wh
ov th va of th jo in
th sa pr in a di , an th va at .
no , co
( wh ag we ab a mu se us
an se - ke qu
ve no ) .
it is ea to to se th th si of th re of
in ot wo , we ca es th si of an qu of th fo us th jo di de us ou sa pr .
as we no sh , an ex of th te in se 12 al us to es th jo di us a pr gr 12 pr re mo
pr re mo ( pr ) ( 12 ) ex ba ne - wo to th re se .
th al us to mo co no on be at of th sa tu , bu al be at of re tu in di ta .
th ex is ac - co by al , as a pa of an at , an at - ha a fo ke fo .
we ca al al de on at in re th ar re to vi a lo ch of jo to si th no , we om th de .
a pr fo ou tb do is sh in fi .
he , fo ex , we ha th th ty of th co de on th ag an ge of th pa .
in an re
de 12 . : a pr re mo ( pr )
fo a re da is a pa pr mo fo ea of th fo va :
fo ea ta an ea at
, wh sp a lo
. * a va
fi 12 : ( a ) a pr fo th tu do .
( b ) a qu - ev bn fo tb do an th ke qu
, a bo jo in
do no de a di ov a si ta in is .
th pr di of an at ca de on pa th ar at in ot , fo - ke re tu .
we th ne to de a jo pr di ov a tu al tu on wh it de .
to gu th th se of tu we mu co is ni , we pl a st re on ou pr mo .
de 12 . : le d be a pa or ov th ta in ou da .
we sa th a fo ke co wi d ex a pa or d we ca no de th mi ex to a qu
is ( ta ) st if th is a pa
a pr su th wh
is a fo ke in ) , th
th co to
be a ke qu ov th tu va or ma no re to th sa ta ) .
de 12 . : le
fo tw co :
be a ke qu .
we de th up - to be th mi qu th sa th
e co al of th jo op in 12
fo ea
, if th is an at
, th th is a un tu va
e co th jo
tu va g
fr th co , th
we ca co th up cl fo an qu an th th se in th tb do is ov a is ni .
fo ex , if ou qu is ov th th tu tu va ov st .
no th th is no di de of at of co on at of st , bu th ar de - de on pa , an th in of th tu va tu ne th in of th tu va .
no th , if we co a ke qu
is a tu va ov pa an
ih th al co a tu va -
h is id to th cl of
ab wi th co g . pa =
. pa - id , th th cl ; i . e . , th pr wi no in - du a ne tu va if a co on is al pr .
we ca ex th de of up cl to se - ke qu in th ob wa : th se cl ar no re to th no of up cl .
up cl a qu do no ch it re si :
pr 12 . : le
be a qu an le
cl .
th si
fe be it up
fo ea fo ke
fo ea va of th fo sp a se of pa pa ha th fo in so ta an .
sp a cp
, wh ea pa is a fo ke of is an at of ;
to de on
on an at is re to
th fr al a pr de of an at .
th ty of de on ma se vi so fo ke de : ou pr mo a di wh ar ch in at ra th is no re fo th at to be co un th ar so re .
he , we co th pr mo to .
mo pr , we re th if be a pa of de fo ca wh tr in ot wo , in th cp is at th ro of th tr , an on th fo in no th th jo in va al ha pa an a cp .
co th pr fo ou tb do .
th jo in va wh in wh th st is un in th po or ha ap in mo th on pa .
th ar es th ca : fo a no - un st an a pa th wa bo ou
st ha th pa pa . us an st . un ,
we al re th th cp of
is a pa of
tr is me .
no - un st an a pa bo in th u . s .
th pr is
th u . s . , th pr th th wi jo is ar n ab is n
; fo a , ne th ti as la fo a un st , th pr - n ! n ! o , re of th pa pl of bi
we ar mu mo li to ha u . s . - bo pa jo to no - un st th fo - bo on .
( th re is th fo - bo pa of im to th u . s .
al in wi th di su pa ty ha a un st in to th re .
u . s . - bo pa , on th ot ha , ar mu mo li to co th di by ca it fr so lo , an th wi ap in in cl . ) 12 se es us pr
we no wi to de th re be a pr mo an th da .
in th ca of bn , th co wa st - is an ap to th fr di - .
in th ca of pr , th is is mo su , as a pr
fo : th bn ' cb
th re fo im fr re in .
be a ke qu , an le be th tu va in
e be it up cl
th di ob by sa ea tu , th pr pe .
th fo an qu , pr th qu re al us to ap fo es th qu se .
we ca co th pr es - ti us th fo si co :
h wh ex
fe as th
de 12 . : le , an le be an ke qu .
we de th qu - ev ba
be a pr ov '
( to be a bn as fo :
it ha a no it al ha a no / fo ev va ie in pa is a pa of is a pa of
fo ev cl , th no
fe an at ha th pa sp - is a pa of is a pa of is th un tu va
is as sp in
/ th cp of fo ex , fi .
12 ( b ) sh th qu ev bn fo th up cl ke qu we ca no us th ba ne to es th se - it of an qu .
co a se - ke qu te th ke qu
cl ) , an co th pr of ( st - id ) .
in re , we do ne to co a bn ov al th no in th cl tr qu an th an in ' 12
pr co
fo ex , to ev th pr of th . ag = 12 , we wo us th bn in fi .
12 ( b ) ( as it up
is it ( as ab ) , an #
we ca es
; it is su to in on th at -
ih wh ex -
, wh #
. ag = 12 ,
th pr tw se sh ho we ca pe qu si es on we ha a pr th ca th si st co in th da di .
th se ad - dr th qu of ho to co su a mo au - ca fr th re da .
ma of th id in th se ar si ad of pr wo on th to : th wo on le ba ne fr da ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) an th re ex of th le fr to pr ( 12 ) .
in th co al , ou go is to nd a pr
th in to th co al co of tw pa : a re sc , th sp th ba vo in th do th se of ta , th at as wi ea of th ta , an th po fo ke jo be tu an th da it , wh sp th ac tu co in ea ta .
th be re th de in th da .
in or to pr - vi a fo sp fo th ta , we rs ne to de an ap no of be .
gi th cr , th al wi tr to nd th mo th op it .
th ar tw pa to ou op pr .
th pa es pr fo a gi de st st se pr nd th de st wi th op ch of pa , ac th ma sc , su to ou sp co on th mo .
12 sc cr
nd be pa se .
to pr a fo de of mo qu , we ma us of ba co fr in th ( 12 ) .
th qu of a
mo ca be me by th ex to wh it su th da .
in ot wo , if we ha th mo , ho ma bi wo be re , us an op en , to re th da .
th mo in th mo , th fe bi ar re to en
it is we kn th th op sh en of a da se , gi th mo , us a nu of bi wh is th ne lo of th pr of th da gi th mo .
in ot wo , we de th sc of a mo us th fo
we ca th fo th mo co ta as th of nd th mo th ha ma lo - li gi th da .
we no th th cr is di fr th us in th st - da fo of le pr mo fr da ( 12 ) .
in th la ca , we ty ch a sc fu th tr of t to da wi mo co .
th tr al us to av tt th tr da to cl , th re ou ab - it to pr un da .
in th ca , ou go is ve di : we do no wa to ge to ne da , bu on to su th pa in th ex da .
th di in fo is wh mo ou ch of sc fu .
12 pa es
we be by co th pa es ta fo a gi de st .
in ot wo , ha se a de - th de th se of pa fo ea th pa it .
th pa es ta is a ke su in th st se - ti st : to ev th sc fo a st , we mu rs pa - et it .
in ot wo , th hi sc mo is th st wh be pa ha th hi sc .
at , we mu ll in th nu .
be it pa in
a gi st in th da .
mo pr , co so at
it is we - kn th th hi li pa fo is th on th pr ma th fr .
ou mo co a pa .
th ma li va fo th pa is wi th po of
th pa re th co pr si th re fr of
an ea as of va
fo ea va of
th fr , or co , us in th ex ar ca su - ci st in th st le li .
th co is ve si in th ca wh th at an it pa ar in th sa ta .
fo ex , to co th cp as wi th pa . ge at in ou tb mo , we si ex a co an gr - by qu on ge an hi , wh gi us th co fo al po va of th tw at - tr .
th co im gi us th su st in bo th nu an de of th en cp .
th co re a li sc of th da .
th ca wh so of th pa of an at ap in a di ta is on sl mo co .
re th we re de be tu to th th ut fo - ke jo .
in ot wo , we ca ha
fo a fo ke th , to co th cp fo si ne to ex a fo - ke jo be th us th sa ty of co an gr - by qu ov th re .
in wh is al th pr ke of
th de on
fo ex , in ou tb mo , co . ag ha th pa co - ta . co an co . pa . ag .
to co th su st , we si jo pa an co on pa . pa - id . pa , an th gr an co ap .
we ha pr th an fo th ca wh .
ho , th di on on a si fo at cl ex to de on mu at , po in di ta .
we si do al of th ne fo - ke jo , ge a si re ta ov an al of it pa , an co th su st .
wh th pr mi ap ex at rs gl , it ca be ex ve ef .
re th we ar on al de - pe vi fo - ke jo .
pu th re to wi ou re in as , we kn th ea tu .
th , th nu of tu wi jo wi pr a si tu in th re jo is pr th si of .
th sa ob - ti ho wh ha pa in mu ta .
as th we ha a go in st on ke ( e . g . , a ha in ) , th co of pe th jo op is th li in th si it re to de th co of th cp fo a jo .
in th ca , we mu co th pr - bi th a ra tu .
th pr of th jo ev ca de on va of at in , e . g . , on th va of .
in ou tb do , th jo in be pa - ti an st de on us wi th pa ta an on un wi th st ta .
to co th su st - , we ne to co th to nu
of ca wh th rs is si
fo , th co is al ea .
th la is
, wh ca be co by jo th tw ta an th do a co an gr - by qu .
th co of th op ( as an ap in st ) is ag li in th nu of tu in 12 st se
, an th th nu wi
an a ra tu
ou se ta is th st se ta : nd th de - de st th ac th hi lo - li sc .
th pr he is nd th be de st am th su ma po on . 12 th is a co op pr , an on wh is kn to be np - ha ( 12 ) .
we th pr an al th nd a go de st us si he te de th fa th th op de st is no gu to be pr , th al ne pe ve we in pr .
12 . 12 sc re
th lo - li fu ca be re in a wa th bo fa th mo se ta an al it ef to be mo ea un .
we rs re th fo ba de -
co so jo di
de 12 . : le th mu in of
if we ha de st is
ov th un .
we ca de
an be tw se of at , an
if we ha mu ta , th
ex is sl mo co , be no al de - ci be at in di ta ar le .
at in a si ta , th nu of po
th te in th ex is th lo of th re er -
an an ap to it
in , bu ma th pr of ea on .
th en ex is si a we av of th re er ov th di , wh th we ar th pr of th .
it is in cl th mu in is me - .
if th ar in , th th mu in is ze .
ot , th mu in is al po .
th st th co - la , th la th mu in .
ar co in
co a pa st
ou an in th pr se sp th op ch ( in te of li ) fo pa - be th di in th da , as ab .
we ca no re - la th lo - li sc in te of mu in :
to de th se of pa
is a co th do no de on th ch of st - tu .
th , th ov sc of a st de as a su , wh ea co is lo to an at an it pa .
th lo sc de di on th mu in be a no an it pa in th st .
th , ou sc fu pr st wh an at is st co wi it
su th ex to wh .
we us . # "
pa .
we wi us /
12 . 12 mo sp
an im de de is th sp of de st - tu th we al th al to co .
se co ar im on us by th se of ou mo .
ba ne - wo an pr on de a co pr di if th de st is ac , i . e . , th is no di pa fr an at ba to it .
th , we re at to de - pe st th ar di ac gr .
fu , we ha pl ce re on in - ta de : a is a fo ke an pl th ap ro in th cp tr .
fi , we ha re th th de st be st al ta , as
is al a pa of
, an if th jo in va
is on al if
a se se of co is im by co co - er .
a da sy ty pl a bo on th am of sp us to sp th st mo .
we th pl a bo on th si of th mo co by ou al .
in ou ca , th si is ty th nu of pa us in th cp fo th di at , pl so sm am re to sp th st .
a se co co is th si of th in gr - by ta co to co th cp in th st .
if th ta ge ve la , st an ma th ca ge ex .
th , we of ch to pl a bo on th nu of pa pe no .
12 . 12 se al
gi a se of le ca st , an a sc fu th al us to ev di st , we ne on pr a pr fo nd a hi - sc hy in ou sp .
th si he se al is gr hi - cl se , us ra st to es lo ma .
we ma ou cu - an it im it .
at ea it - re ca st
h , we ch th
er , we co a se of si lo tr to th st .
fo ea re ca su it sa ou co , an se th be on .
we re at - ti to si tr su as ad or de an ed , an ad or de a sp in a cp tr .
th pr co - ue un no of th po su st .
at th po , th al ca ta so nu of ra st , an th re th hi - cl pr .
af - te so nu of it of th fo , th al ha an ou th be st di du th en pr .
h ha a hi
fu , af ta a st in th se , mo of th wo fr th pr it ca be re .
to un th id , as th ou cu st is
to do th se , we ev a se of ch to , an se th on th gi us th la im .
sa th we ha ch - se to up th lo mo fo ( ei it pa se or it cp tr ) .
th re st is po lo ch to ne of th sc co to an at ch .
he , th ch in sc re fr th ch to
no , we ar co h .
th ke in is th th co -
h of a gi st
si su st vi ap is to si ch th st th la im in sc , i . e . , th ma
on im is to co is ho to ch am th po - .
th mo ob - .
ho , th ap is ve sh , as it ig th co of th tr in te of in th si of th st .
we no pr tw ap th ad th co .
th rs ap is ba on an an be th pr an th we kn pr : we ha a se of it , ea wi a va an a vo , an a kn wi a xe vo ou go is to se th la va se of it th ts in th kn - sa .
ou go he is ve si : ev ed th we in in th mo ha so va in te of sc an so co in te of sp .
a st he fo th kn pr is to gr ad th it in th kn th ha , no th ma va , bu th la va to vo ra .
in ou ca , we ca si ch th ed fo wh th li im no by th ad sp re :
is la . 12 we re to th me of sc as st si no -
th se id is to us a mo to th lo - li sc fu ca md ( mi de le ) .
th sc fu is mo by id fr in an co th .
it sc a mo us no si th ne of th nu - be of bi re to en th da gi th mo , bu al th nu of bi re to en th mo it .
th sc ha
we ha ex co th na ap wi th tw id ou ab on th ce da de in se - ti 12 .
bo ss an md sc ac hi lo - li th th na ap fo a xe am of sp .
in fa , ss an md pe al id fo th en ra of al - ca sp , an no cl wi wa ev .
al th ap in th co of
th pr a ke in fo im th ef of th co - pu .
as we sa , th sc de in a su , ea of wh is as on wi a no an it pa in th st - tu .
th , if we mo th pa se or th cp of on a si at , th te in th sc co to ot at re un ( 12 ) .
th , to co th sc co to a sl mo st , we ne on re th lo sc fo th on at wh de mo ha ch .
th he ha pr pe gu fo th kn - sa pr .
un , in ou pr th va an co ar no li ad , so th is no di ma be th pr an th sa pe bo do no ap .
is th sa in
be un .
on ch to
h , an we ca si re th nu -
ne to be re - ev af
ex re
in th se , we pr ex re fo a va of re - wo da , in : a ce da ( 12 ) ; a su of th da of na da us in th 12 eu kd cu ( 12 ) ; an a da of tu pa in sa fr ( 12 ) .
we be by ev th ac of ou me on se qu ov a si re .
we th co mo co , se - jo qu ov se re .
fi , we di th ru ti fo co an es fo ou mo .
se qu .
we ev ac fo se ov a si re on a da fr ce da de ab ( ap - pr 12 tu ) .
we pe tw se of ex .
in th rs se of ex , we co ou ap to an ex se es te mu hi - to .
mu hi ar ty us to es - ma th jo ov so sm su of at th pa in th qu .
to al a fa co , we ap ou ap ( an ot ) in th sa se .
we se su of tw , th , an fo at of th ce da , an es th qu si fo th se of al eq se qu ov th at .
we co th pe of fo al .
av is a si es te th as at va in - de : fo ea at a on di hi is ma - ta .
in th do , th do si of ea at is sm , so it is fe to ma a bu fo ea va .
th te - ni is re of te us in ex co - ba qu op su as sy - r .
mh bu a mu - si hi ov th at , us th v - op ( v , a ) hi - to co of po et al .
( 12 ) . 12 th te co - st bu th mi th va in ar ( fr va ) wi ea bu .
po et al .
fo th me fo bu hi to be on of th mo su in ex ov th do .
sa co a ra sa of th ta - bl an es th re si of a qu fr th sa .
pr us ou me fo qu si es .
un st ot , pr us tr cp an th ss sc me .
er of th qu si es :
we co th di me us th ad re is th ac si of ou is ou es , th th ad re er is .
fo ea ex , we co th av - er ad er ov al po in fo th se va of th qu th ea ex is ty th av ov se th qu .
we ev th ac of th me as we va th sp al to ea me ( wi th ex of av , wh
we wo li to th vi po fo ma th co av - ab to us fo ou co .
12 12 12 12 12 12
12 12 12 12 12 12
fi 12 : re er vs .
st si fo a qu su ov th ce da .
( a ) tw at qu ( ag an in ) .
th re er fo av is 12
( b ) th at qu ( ag , ho an in ) .
th re er fo av is 12
( c ) fo at qu ( ag , ed , ho an in ) .
th re er fo av is 12 .
fi 12 : re er vs .
st si fo a qu ov th ce da , wi mo co ov 12 at .
( a ) th at qu ( wo , ed , an ma ) ( b ) fo at qu ( in , in , ag an em ) .
( c ) a sc pl sh th er on in qu fo a th at qu ( in , in , ag ) fo sa an pr ( us 12 by of st ) .
in th sc pl , ea po re a qu , wh th co is th re er us sa an th co is th re er us pr .
th , po ab th di li co to qu on wh sa ou pr an po be th di li co to qu on wh pr pe be .
th mo si is xe ) .
12 sh re on ce fo th qu su : ov tw , th , an fo at .
mh an sa , an al me si ou av .
no th a bn wi tr cp ov tw at is si a sl di - fe re of a mu - di hi .
th , it is in th ou ap st do mh , ev in th ca .
as th po of th re is es eq he , th su of pr in th se is du to th di sc fu fo ev di mo , an th as
in th se se of ex , we co a mo ch - in se , wh a si mo is bu fo th en ta , an th us to ev an se qu ov th ta .
in th ca , mh is no lo ap , so we co th ac of pr to sa , an al co to pr wi ta cp .
we bu a pr ( bn ) fo th en se of at in th ta , an th qu su of th an fo at .
si , fo sa , th sa in al 12 at .
we te th ap on th ce da wi 12 at - tr .
th re fo tw di qu su ar sh in fi .
12 ( a ) an ( b ) .
al fo ve sm st si , sa ac lo er , pr wi tr cp do as th st - ag si in .
no al th tr cp co ou - fo ta cp .
th re is th ta cp fo us to sp al bi in th cp wh a pa is ad , wa sp on ma di th mi no be ne .
12 ( c ) sh th
pe on a th qu su in mo de .
th sc pl co pe of sa an pr fo a xe st si ( 12 by ) .
he we se th pr ou sa on th ma of th qu .
( th sp in th pl at sa er 12 co to th la se of qu re es to be
of si n by sa . ) se - jo qu .
we ev th ac of es fo se - jo qu on tw re - wo da .
ou na da ( fi ) ha th ta : ac ( 12 tu ) , tr ( 12 tu ) an di ( 12 tu ) ; tr re th a fo ke to ac an ac re to di .
th tu - cu da ( tb ) al ha th ta : pa ( 12 tu ) , co ( 12 tu ) an st ( 12 tu ) ; co re th a fo ke to pa an pa re to st .
bo da sa th re in as .
we co th fo te .
sa co a ra sa of th jo of al th ta al th fo ke an es th re si of a qu fr th sa .
bn is a re of th pr th do no al an pa fo th jo in va an re th pa of ot at to be in th sa re .
th is eq to a mo wi a bn fo ea re to wi th un jo as .
pr us un pr .
bo pr an bn we co us tr - cp an ss sc .
we te al th ap on a se of qu th jo al
fi 12 : ( a ) re er vs .
st si fo a se - jo qu ov th ta in th tb do wi se on 12 at .
( b ) re er fo th qu se on tb ( c ) re er fo th qu se on fi
th ta ( al al th ca al be us fo a qu ov an su of th ta ) .
th qu se on or tw at fr ea ta .
fo ea qu su , we av th er ov al po in of th se va .
no th al th ap we ru so as to co ge mo ov al of th at of th ta , an no in a wa th wa sp to th qu su .
12 ( a ) co th ac of th th me fo va - ou st si on a th at qu in th tb do .
th gr sh bo bn an pr ou sa fo mo st si .
12 ( b ) co th ac of th th me fo se di qu su on tb , al ea me 12 by of st .
12 ( c ) co th ac of th th me fo se di qu su on fi , al - in 12 by of st fo ea .
th hi sh th pr al ou bn an sa .
ru ti .
fi , we ex th ru ti fo co - st an es fo ou mo .
th ex we pe on a sp wo ru so wi 12 of in me .
we rs co th ti re by th of co ph , sh in fi .
as we ca se , th co ti va wi th am of st al fo th mo : ou se al st wi sm po mo in it se sp ( al at in of ea ot ) , so th mo se is re to co th mo co mo th ta ad - ta of th ad sp .
no th ta cp ar or of ma ea to co th tr cp ho , as we di - cu , th ar al su le ac .
th ru ti fo co al va wi th am of da in th da .
12 ( b ) sh co ti ve da si fo tr cp an ta cp fo xe mo st si ( 12 by ) .
no th , fo ta cp , ru ti gr li wi th da si .
fo tr cp , ru ti ha hi va an is al in of da si , si th ru ti is do by th se fo th tr cp st on su st ar co .
th on es ph is , of co , mo ti - cr th co , si it is of us in th in lo of qu op - mi .
th ru ti of ou es te va ro wi th st si of th mo , si mo th re a lo of sp ar us hi in ne wh re so lo in ti .
th ex in fi .
12 ( c ) il - lu th de .
th es ti fo bo me is qu re .
th es ti fo tr cp is si
hi , bu th is us an al th do no fu ex th tr - st we ex th an al th is op fo tr cp wo pe on a pa wi th ta es ti .
in th pa , we ha pr a no ap fo es qu se us pr gr mo ba ne an th re ex .
ou ap ut pr - ab gr mo , wh ex co in re be th di at in th ta to al a co re of th jo di of th da at - tr va .
we ha te ou al on se re - wo da in a va of do me , na , an so .
th su of ou ap on al of th da in th th ty of st ex by ou me is ve co , an th ou ap is a vi op fo ma re - wo da .
ou ap ha se im ad .
to ou kn - ed , it is un in it ab to ha se an jo op - to in a si un fr , th pr es fo co qu in se se an jo op .
se - on , ou ap ci th di pr as - ci wi mu - di hi .
mu - di hi - to , as th di of th ta gr , ei gr ex - ne or be le an le ac .
ou ap es - ma th hi - di jo di us a se of lo - di co di , ea of wh is qu ac - ra .
as we sa , we ca pu th co di to to ge a go ap to th en jo di .
th , ou mo is no li to an qu ov a sm se of pr at th ha to ap in a hi to - ge it ca be us to an qu ov an ar se of at in th da .
th ar se im to th we ha no fu ad - dr in th pa .
on is th in ma of th pr as th da ch .
it is st to ex ou ap to ad th pa of th pr ov ti , ke th st xe .
to ad th st , we ca ap a va of th ap of ( 12 ) .
we ca al ke tr of th mo sc , re th st if th sc de dr .
an im to th we ha no di is jo ov no - ke at .
in ou pr an ex , ou qu us on fo ke jo .
wh th ca of qu st to be mo fr th pr mo th we pr , ou me ar mo ge .
we ca co es fo qu th jo no - ke at by su ov th po va of th jo at , an ou es ar li to be mo
12 12 12 12
fi 12 : ( a ) th co ti fo a pr fo ce us tr an ta cp as a fu of mo st sp .
( b ) th co ti fo a pr fo ce us tr an ta cp as a fu of da si .
( c ) th ru ti fo qu si es as a fu of mo si .
ac th me th do no mo an of th de be tu .
ho an em in is re to ev ou me on th ca of qu .
th ar ma in ex to ou ap , wh we in to in in fu wo .
fi , we wa to ex ou te to ha mu la da we be th an in si pa ov th da ca be us to ho in on a mu sm se of ca mo , th su st fo wh ca th be co ve ef in ba mo .
mo in , th ar ob ap of ou te to th ta of ap qu an , bo fo ol qu an fo ge da qu ( ev qu in jo ) .
ac .
we wo li to th ch ol an vi po fo th he fe .
th wo wa su on co n1 - 12 - c - 12 un da hp pr , an by th ge of th sl fo an th po fo -
