ma re - wo do ar re in na , co of a se of ob re to ea ot in co wa .
th pa fo on pr th ex an th ty of li be en in su do .
we ap th re ma ne fr of ta et al .
to de a jo pr - ti mo ov th en li gr en at an li .
th ap of th rm al to th ta re th de of pr pa ov su st .
we ap th me to tw ne re da , on in un we , an th ot a so ne .
we sh th th co cl ap of rm , an th in of su pa ov li la , pr si im in ac ov at cl , wh at to pr ea li in is .
ma re wo do ar ri st , in en of mu ty th ar re to ea ot th a ne of di ty of li .
su da po ne ch to ma le .
on ch ar fr th ta of pr wh en ar re to wh ot an wh ar th ty of th re .
fo ex , in a da se co of a se of hy un we , we mi wa to pr no ju wh pa be to a pr an wh to a st , bu al wh pr is wh st ad .
in so ca , th ex of a re wi be pr by th pr of a hy be th pa , an we wi ha on to de wh th li re an ad - ad re .
in ot ca , we mi ha to in th ve ex of a li fr in ev , su as a la nu of co - au pa .
in a ve di ap , we mi wa to pr li re pa of in in ce te ac .
on po ap to th ta is to co th pr an / or ty of th li us on at of th po li en an of th li it .
fo ex , in ou un ex , we mi tr to pr an cl th li us th wo on th tw we , an th an wo on th li ( if pr ) .
th ap ha th ad th it re to a si cl ta an we ca ap st ma le te .
ho , it co ig a ri so of in th is un to th ta th gr st of th li gr .
fo ex , a st pr of an ad - ad li be a pr an a st is th fa th th jo pa in se pr .
in ge , th li gr ty re co pa of in be th en in th do .
ta th pa in co sh al us to pr a mu be pr fo li .
in th pa , we ta th pr us th re ma ne ( rm ) fr - wo of ta et al .
we us th fr to de a si pr mo ov th en li gr , in bo ob la ( wh re ) an li be
ob .
th mo pa ar tr di , to ma th pr of th ( ob an ) li la gi th kn at ( e . g . , th wo on th pa , hy - pe ) .
th le mo is th ap , us pr in , to pr an cl li us an ob at an li .
12 li pr a re do is de by a re sc , wh sp a se of ob ty an at fo th .
in ou we ex , we ha a we ty , wh ea pa ha a bi - va at fo ea wo in th di , de wh th pa co th wo .
it al ha an at re th cl of th we , e . g . , a pr ho , a st ho , et .
to ad th li pr pr , we ne to ma li rs - cl ci in ou mo .
fo ( 12 ) , we in in ou sc ob ty th co to li be en .
ea li ob is as wi a tu of en ob ( o1 : : : ; ok ) th pa in th li .
fo ex , a hy li ob wo be as wi a pa of en th li pa , an th li - to pa , wh ar pa of th li de .
we no th li ob ma al ha ot at e . g . , a hy ob mi ha at fo th an wo on th li .
as ou go is to pr li ex , we mu co li th ex an li th do no .
we th co a se of po li be en .
ea po li is as wi a tu of en ob , bu it ma or ma no ac ex .
we de th ev us a bi ex at ex , wh is tr if th li be th as en ex an fa ot .
in ou ex , ou mo ma co a po li fo ea pa of we , an th va of th va : ex de wh th li ac ex or no .
th li pr ta no re to th pr of pr th ex at of th li ob .
an in i sp th se of en of ea en ty an th va of al at fo al of th en .
fo ex , an in of th hy sc is a co of we , sp th la , th wo th co , an wh li be th ex .
a pa in sp th se of ob , an va fo so of th at .
in th li pr ta , we mi ob al of th at fo al of th ob , ex fo th ex at fo th li .
ou go is to pr th la at gi th re .
12 re ma ne we be wi a br re of th fr of un gr mo or ma ne ( 12 ) , an th ex to re do pr in ( 12 ) .
le v de a se of di ra va an v an as of va to v .
a ma ne fo v de a jo di ov v .
it co of an un de gr , an a se of pa as wi th gr .
fo a gr g , a cl c is a se of no vc in g , no ne ma , su th ea vi vj 12 vc ar co by an ed in g .
ea cl c is as wi a cl po ( ci : 12 ) c ( vc ) , wh is a no - ne fu de on th jo do of vc .
le c ( g ) be th se of cl , th ma ne de th di p ( v ) = 12 z qc ( g ) ( ci : 12 ) c ( vc ) , wh z is th st no pa fu .
a re ma ne ( rm ) ( 12 ) sp th cl an po be at of re en at a te le , so a si mo pr a co di - bu fo an co of in fr th sc .
rm sp th cl us th no of a re cl te , wh sp tu of va in th in us a re qu la .
( se ( 12 ) fo de . )
fo ex , if we wa to de cl be th cl la of li pa , we mi de a cl te th ap to al pa pa , pa an li of ty
we , we an hy , re , su th li po fr pa to pa
we th de a po te th wi be us fo al pa of va pa an pa fo su pa an pa
gi a pa in i of th sc , th rm m pr an un ma ne ov th at of en in i , in th ob wa .
th cl in th un ne ar de by th cl te c .
we ha on cl fo ea c 12 c ( i ) , an al of th cl ar as wi th sa cl po ( ci : 12 ) c .
ta et al .
sh ho th pa of an rm ov a x ed se of cl te ca be le fr da .
in th ca , th tr da is a si in i , wh th sa pa ar us mu ti on fo ea di en th us a fe .
a ch of cl po pa w sp a pa rm , wh in a pr di pw ov th un ma ne .
gr de ov w is us to op th co li of th ta va - ab gi th ob va in th tr se .
th gr in a te wh is th po pr of th ta va gi th ob , wh co re th we ru pr in ov th en un ma ne .
in re do , th ne is ty la an de co , ma ex in in .
ta et al .
th pr th us of be pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
12 su te in a li gr
th st of li gr ha be wi us to in im of do in sc pu ( 12 ) an hy ( pa ( 12 ) , hu an au ( 12 ) ) .
so ne ha be ex an in th ow ri in or to qu tr in so in ( 12 ) .
li gr st ha al be us to im do cl ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
in ou ex , we fo th th co of a re la wi a pr - ab gr mo pr a ve ex fr fo mo co pa co in re gr .
fi , as ob by ge et al .
( 12 ) , th ar of co - re be th at of en an th re in wh th pa .
fo ex , in a so ne , pe wi th sa ho ar mo li to be fr .
we ca al ex co be th la of en an th re ty .
fo ex , on st ca be te as in a co .
we ca ea ca su co by in cl th in th at .
im , th cl ar in ev wh at ar no ob in th te da .
fo ex , if we ha ev in an ad - ad re , ou pr th x is a fa me in , an th ou be th x pa in a te as li wi so en z de .
we al fo it us to co ri su te ov th li gr .
on us ty of te is a si te , wh ob th sh a ce gr - ba pr ar mo li to ha th sa la .
co , fo ex , a pr x an tw ot en y an z .
if xs we me y an z in th sa co , it is li th th x - y re an th y - z re ar of th sa ty fo ex , if y is pr xs ad , th pr so is z .
ou fr ac th pa ea , by in pa cl be th ap re va .
an us ty of su te in tr pa , wh th pr - en of an a - b li an of a b - c li in ( or de ) th li of an a - c li .
fo ex , st of as in co ta by th ad .
no th th ty of in ca be ac fo ju us pa cl .
by in cl ov tr of re , we ca ca su pa as we .
we ca in ev mo co pa , bu of co we ar li by th ab of be pr to sc up as we in la cl an ti lo in th ma ne .
we no th ou ab to mo th mo co gr pa re on ou us
se & tr
fi 12 : ( a ) re pr wi en la gi .
re mo on av pe be th th ba fl mo .
( b ) en la pr .
re mo ne pe si be .
( c ) re pr wi en la .
re mo pe be mo of th ti , ev th th ar sc th so mo pe wo .
of an un ma ne as ou pr mo .
in co , th ap of ge et al .
us di gr mo ( ba ne an pr ( 12 ) ) to re - se a pr mo of bo re an at .
th ap ea ca th de of li ex on at of en .
bu th co th th pr - ab de gr be a di ac gr ma it ha to se ho we wo re th su pa de ab .
fo ex , fo th tr pa , we mi co si di th co ed be li ex va ar .
ho , it is no cl ho we wo th pa a li ex va - ab fo a li th is in in mu tr .
se ( 12 ) fo fu di .
12 ex on we da
we co an ma la a ne re da in by we ( 12 ) .
ou da co of co sc de we fr 12 sc : st , be , an mi .
a to of 12 of pa ar la in on of ei ca : fa , st , re sc , st , re gr , re pr , co an or ( or re to an la en th is no a re gr ) .
ow pa , wh ar ow by an en bu ar no th ma pa fo th en , we ma as to th en .
th av di of cl ac sc is : or ( 12 ) , st ( 12 ) , re gr ( 12 ) , fa ( 12 ) , co ( 12 ) , re pr ( 12 ) , re sc ( 12 ) , an st ( 12 ) .
we es a se of ca li be en ba on ev of a re be th .
on ty of ev fo a re is a hy fr an en pa or on of it ow pa to th pa of an en .
a se ty of ev is a vi li : we as a nu of al to ea pa us th pa ti , th an te of in li , an em ad of th en in .
me an al of a pa on an pa co a vi li .
th re se of 12 ca li we la as co to on of ve re ty ad ( fa , st ) , me - be ( re gr / pr , st / fa / re sc ) , te ( fa / re sc - en / st , co ) , ta ( st , co ) , pa - of ( re gr , re pr ) or no , de th th li do no co to an of th re .
th ob at fo ea pa ar th wo on th pa it an th me - wo on th pa th wo in th ti , se he , an to th pa fr ot pa .
fo li , th ob at ar th an te , te ju be th li ( hy or vi li ) , an th he of th se in wh th li ap .
ou ta is to pr th re ty , if an , fo al th ca li .
we tr tw se fo ou ex : wi pa ca ob ( in th te da ) an pa ca un .
fo al ou ex , we tr on tw sc an te on
th re sc .
ob en la .
we rs pr re fo th se wi ob pa ca - eg .
gi th pa la , we ca ru ou ma im re th re la br am th ca li is : no ( 12 ) , me ( 12 ) , pa - of ( 12 ) , ad ( 12 ) , te ( 12 ) , ta ( 12 ) .
th is a hu ra of po mo th on ca ap to th ta .
we se a
se of mo th we fe re so ra of pa th ma in th da .
li - fl is ou ba mo , pr li on at a ti us mu lo - gi re .
th is a st cl , an it pe is co wi ot cl ( e . g . , su ve ma ) .
th fe us by th mo ar th la of th tw li pa an th wo on th li go fr on pa an it ow pa to th ot pa .
th nu of fe is ar 12
th re mo tr to im up th ba mo by mo th in - ti be re an pr re jo .
th se mo in cl ov re wh li ap co in a se on a pa .
th mo tr to ca th pa th si re en ( e . g . , ad , me of pr ) ar of li to on a we .
th pa is a ty of si te , as de in se 12
th tr mo is a ty of tr te , as di in se 12
sp , we in cl ov se of th ca li th fo a tr in th li gr .
th se + tr mo in th cl of th tw mo ab .
as sh in fi .
12 ( a ) , bo th se an tr mo ou th at mo , an th co mo ha an av ac ga of 12 : 12 , or 12 : 12 re re in er .
as we on ha th ru ( on fo ea sc ) , we ca me an th st si of th im .
as an ex of th in in ma by th mo , we fo a st - pr pa th wa mi by th fl mo as no ( th is on a si hy fr th st pa to th ad ) bu co id by bo th se - ti an tr mo .
th se mo ut a pa on th st we de hi re , wi a se of li to hi re gr an th li to hi ad .
ex th pa of th se mo cl , we fo th th mo le th it is li fo pe to me th re gr an ad in th sa se .
by ca th tr , th se mo is ab to in th co of th st - ad re .
th tr mo co th sa mi in a di wa .
us th sa ex , th tr mo ma us of th in th bo th st an th te be to th sa re gr , an th st ta a cl ta by hi ad .
it is im to no th no of th ot re ar ob in th te da , bu ra th mo bo it in .
un en la .
wh th la of pa ar no kn du re pr , we ca ru ou po re fo ca li ba on th la of pa en .
th , we ha ma mo ca li th do no co to an of ou re ty ( e . g . , li be an or an a st ) .
th ma th ex of re a ve lo pr ev , wi th fo br am th po re : no ( 12 ) , me ( 12 ) , pa - of ( 12 ) , ad ( 12 ) , te ( 12 ) , ta ( 12 ) .
in ad , wh we co a ma ne in wh pa la ar no ob , th ne is mu la an de , ma th ( ap ) in ta mu ha .
th , in ad to mo th tr to pr pa en an re la si , we al tr a tw - ph ap , wh we rs pr pa ca , an th us th pr la as fe fo th mo th pr re .
fo pr pa ca , we co tw mo .
en - fl mo is mu - no lo re th us wo an me - wo fr th pa an it ow pa in se ba of wo .
th nu of fe is ro 12 12
th ne - bo mo is a re mo th ex an ty of si te : pa
12 ( ci : 12 ) ob
12 ( ci : 12 ) ob
fg lm bc ss
fi 12 : ( a ) av pr / re br po fo 12 , 12 , 12 ob li .
av pr / re br po fo ea fo of sc re at 12 ob li .
wi si ur of be to th sa ca or ti li ca ( re gr / pr , pr / co ) .
fo ea pa , tw pa wi ur cl in ed di - ta ar se as ne , an we in pa cl be ne - in pa .
12 ( b ) sh th th ne mo cl ou th fl mo ac al sc , by an av of 12 : 12 ac ga .
gi th pa ca , we ca no ap th di mo fo li cl - ti .
th , th ph ( fl / fl ) mo us th en - fl mo to cl th pa la , an th th li - fl mo to cl th ca li us th re en - ti la .
th ph ( ne / fl ) mo us th ne mo to cl th en la , an th th li - fl mo to cl th li .
th ph ( ne - bo / se ) mo us th ne to cl th en la an th th se mo to cl th li .
we al tr tw mo th pr pa an re la si .
th jo + ne mo is si th un of th ne mo fo pa ca an th fl mo fo re la gi th pa ca .
th jo + ne + se mo ad in th cl th ap in th se mo be li th ap co in a se on a pa .
we tr th jo mo to pr bo pa an re la si .
as th pr of th no re is so la , we us th pr of no to de a pr - re cu .
if th pr is le th so th , we pr th mo li la ( ot th no ) , ot we pr th mo li la ( in - in no ) .
as us , we re re at th pr - re br po on th te da .
12 ( c ) sh th br po ac by th di mo on th th sc .
re mo , bo ph an jo , di be th at mo on th av - er .
ho , pe va fr sc to sc an fo bo jo an ph mo , pe on on of th sc is wo th th of th at mo .
12 ex on so ne da
th se da we us ha be co by a po we at a la un th ho an on co fo st ( 12 ) .
am ot se , it al st to en in ab th , cr li of th fr an br th so ne - wo .
pe in in re , ge , ma an ye , as we as fa sp , mu , bo , so ac , et .
we fo on th ta of pr th fr - sh li be st fr th pe in an a su of th li .
we se st li in si di re or do an re th da to th fr li on wi ea re , el in - re li fr th da to ge in tr / te sp .
ea re ha ab 12 st an an av st li ab 12 of hi or he ho - ma as fr .
we us an ei - fo tr - te sp , wh we tr on fo re an te on tw .
pr li be tw st fr ju pe in al is a
ve di ta , so we tr a mo re se , wh so pr of th li is ob in th te da , an ca be us as ev fo pr th re li .
we us th fo pr of ob li in th te da : 12 , 12 , an 12 .
th ob li we se at ra , an th re we re ar av ov ve fo of th ra se tr .
us ju th ob po of li , we co th fo at fe : fo ea st , th pr of st in th re th li hi / he an th pr of st he / sh li fo ea pa of st , th pr of ot st th ha as co fr .
th va of th pr we di in fo bi .
th fe ca so of th re st an de be li : st wh li ( or ar li by ) ma fr in th ob po of th li te to ha li in th un po as we .
mo im , ha fr in co in th li of a li be a pa of st .
th fl mo us lo re wi th ab fe as we as pe in ab ea us .
in ad to in ch of th tw pe , we al in a fe fo ea ma of a ch , fo ex , bo pe ar co sc ma or bo ar fr .
th co mo us a ty of si te , in cl be - tw ea pa of li em fr ea pe .
si to th fl mo , th cl in a fe fo ea ma of th ch of th tw po fr .
th mo ca th te of a pe to ha fr wh sh ma ch - is ( ev th th pe mi no po th ) .
fo ex , a st ma be fr wi se cs ma , ev th he is no a cs ma hi .
we al tr mo th us tr te , bu th ap in wi 12 - cl of fa to co or pr er re .
12 ( a ) co th av pr / re br ac by th di mo at th th di se of ob li .
12 ( b ) sh th pe on ea of th ei fo co tw re ea .
us a pa t - te , th co - pa mo ou fl wi p - va 12 : 12 , 12 : 12 an 12 : 12 re .
12 di an co in th pa , we co th pr of li pr in re do .
we fo on th ta of co li cl , wh we ar si tr to pr an cl an en se of li in a li gr .
we sh th th us of a pr mo ov li gr al us to re an ex in su pa in th li gr .
sp , we ha fo tw ty of pa th se to be be in se pl .
si te re th cl of li or ob th sh a ce gr - ba pr ( e . g . , li th sh a co en ) .
tr te re tr of ob an li or in a tr .
we sh th th us of th pa si im th cl ac ov at mo .
re ma ne ar no th on me on mi co ap to th li pr an cl ta .
we co , fo ex , bu a li pr th co ot li in th gr by co gr fe in at fe ( 12 ) , as we di in th so ne da .
as ou ex sh , ev wi th fe , th co pr ap wo be .
an ap is to us re cl su as va of in lo pr ( 12 ) .
ge , ho , th me ha be ap to th pr of pr or cl a si li at a ti .
it is no cl ho we th wo ex to th ta of si pr an en li gr .
fi , we co ap th di pr fr of ( 12 ) .
ho , as sh in ( 12 ) , th di tr rm pe si be th ge tr pr ev on th si en cl ta .
fu , as we di , th pr fr ca re ( in an na wa ) th ty of su pa th se pr in li gr da .
th , th rm fr se mu mo
ap fo th ta .
al th rm fr wo fa we on th ta , th is si ro fo im .
on of th ke pr li th ap of ap is th re on be pr , wh of do no co in mo co pr .
th pr is es ac in th li pr pr , wh th pr of al po li le to de co ma ne wi ma sh lo .
th pr ca be ad wi he th fo th se on li th ar pl ( as we di in a ve si wa in th we ex ) .
a mo in so wo be to de a mo in ap in / le al .
ou re us a se of re pa th we ha di to be us in th do th we ha co .
ho , ma ot ri an in pa ar po .
th , in th re se , ev mo so th in si ta , th is of fe co is cr .
it is th im to ex th pr of au fe in , as in ( 12 ) .
fi , we be th th pr of mo li gr ha nu ot ap - pl , in : an co of pe an hi st of or - ni , id pe or ob th pl ce ke ro , pr cu an fu in , an mo .
ac .
th wo wa su by on co f1 - 12 - 12 - 12 - p1 un da ee pr .
ab wa su by a si gr .
fe .
