man rea - wor dom are rel in nat , con of a set of obj rel to eac oth in com way .
thi pap foc on pre the exi and the typ of lin bet ent in suc dom .
we app the rel mar net fra of tas et al .
to den a joi pro - tic mod ove the ent lin gra ent att and lin .
the app of the rmn alg to thi tas req the den of pro pat ove sub str .
we app thi met to two new rel dat , one inv uni web , and the oth a soc net .
we sho tha the col cla app of rmn , and the int of sub pat ove lin lab , pro sig imp in acc ove at cla , whi att to pre eac lin in iso .
man rea wor dom are ric str , inv ent of mul typ tha are rel to eac oth thr a net of dif typ of lin .
suc dat pos new cha to mac lea .
one cha ari fro the tas of pre whi ent are rel to whi oth and wha are the typ of the rel .
for exa , in a dat set con of a set of hyp uni web , we mig wan to pre not jus whi pag bel to a pro and whi to a stu , but als whi pro is whi stu adv .
in som cas , the exi of a rel wil be pre by the pre of a hyp bet the pag , and we wil hav onl to dec whe the lin ree an adv - adv rel .
in oth cas , we mig hav to inf the ver exi of a lin fro ind evi , suc as a lar num of co - aut pap .
in a ver dif app , we mig wan to pre lin rep par of ind in cer ter act .
one pos app to thi tas is to con the pre and / or typ of the lin usi onl att of the pot lin ent and of the lin its .
for exa , in our uni exa , we mig try to pre and cla the lin usi the wor on the two web , and the anc wor on the lin ( if pre ) .
thi app has the adv tha it red to a sim cla tas and we can app sta mac lea tec .
how , it com ign a ric sou of inf tha is uni to thi tas the gra str of the lin gra .
for exa , a str pre of an adv - adv lin bet a pro and a stu is the fac tha the joi par in sev pro .
in gen , the lin gra typ ree com pat of int bet the ent in the dom .
tak the pat int con sho all us to pro a muc bet pre for lin .
in thi pap , we tac thi pro usi the rel mar net ( rmn ) fra - wor of tas et al .
we use thi fra to den a sin pro mod ove the ent lin gra , inc bot obj lab ( whe rel ) and lin bet
obj .
the mod par are tra dis , to max the pro of the ( obj and ) lin lab giv the kno att ( e . g . , the wor on the pag , hy - per ) .
the lea mod is the app , usi pro inf , to pre and cla lin usi any obs att and lin .
123 lin pre a rel dom is des by a rel sch , whi spe a set of obj typ and att for the .
in our web exa , we hav a web typ , whe eac pag has a bin - val att for eac wor in the dic , den whe the pag con the wor .
it als has an att rep the cla of the web , e . g . , a pro hom , a stu hom , etc .
to add the lin pre pro , we nee to mak lin rst - cla cit in our mod .
fol ( 123 ) , we int int our sch obj typ tha cor to lin bet ent .
eac lin obj is ass wit a tup of ent obj ( o12 : : : ; ok ) tha par in the lin .
for exa , a hyp lin obj wou be ass wit a pai of ent the lin pag , and the lin - to pag , whi are par of the lin den .
we not tha lin obj may als hav oth att e . g . , a hyp obj mig hav att for the anc wor on the lin .
as our goa is to pre lin exi , we mus con lin tha exi and lin tha do not .
we the con a set of pot lin bet ent .
eac pot lin is ass wit a tup of ent obj , but it may or may not act exi .
we den thi eve usi a bin exi att exi , whi is tru if the lin bet the ass ent exi and fal oth .
in our exa , our mod may con a pot lin for eac pai of web , and the val of the var : exi det whe the lin act exi or not .
the lin pre tas now red to the pro of pre the exi att of the lin obj .
an ins i spe the set of ent of eac ent typ and the val of all att for all of the ent .
for exa , an ins of the hyp sch is a col of web , spe the lab , the wor the con , and whi lin bet the exi .
a par ins spe the set of obj , and val for som of the att .
in the lin pre tas , we mig obs all of the att for all of the obj , exc for the exi att for the lin .
our goa is to pre the lat att giv the res .
123 rel mar net we beg wit a bri rev of the fra of und gra mod or mar net ( 123 ) , and the ext to rel dom pre in ( 123 ) .
let v den a set of dis ran var and v an ass of val to v .
a mar net for v den a joi dis ove v .
it con of an und dep gra , and a set of par ass wit the gra .
for a gra g , a cli c is a set of nod vc in g , not nec max , suc tha eac vi; vj 123 vc are con by an edg in g .
eac cli c is ass wit a cli pot ( cid : 123 ) c ( vc ) , whi is a non - neg fun den on the joi dom of vc .
let c ( g ) be the set of cli , the mar net den the dis p ( v ) = 123 z qc1 ( g ) ( cid : 123 ) c ( vc ) , whe z is the sta nor par fun .
a rel mar net ( rmn ) ( 123 ) spe the cli and pot bet att of rel ent at a tem lev , so a sin mod pro a coh dis - but for any col of ins fro the sch .
rmn spe the cli usi the not of a rel cli tem , whi spe tup of var in the ins usi a rel que lan .
( see ( 123 ) for det . )
for exa , if we wan to den cli bet the cla lab of lin pag , we mig den a cli tem tha app to all pai pag , pag and lin of typ
web , web and hyp , res , suc tha lin poi fro pag to pag
we the den a pot tem tha wil be use for all pai of var pag and pag for suc pag and pag
giv a par ins i of the sch , the rmn m pro an unr mar net ove the att of ent in i , in the obv way .
the cli in the unr net are det by the cli tem c .
we hav one cli for eac c 123 c ( i ) , and all of the cli are ass wit the sam cli pot ( cid : 123 ) c .
tas et al .
sho how the par of an rmn ove a x ed set of cli tem can be lea fro dat .
in thi cas , the tra dat is a sin ins i , whe the sam par are use mul tim onc for eac dif ent tha use a fea .
a cho of cli pot par w spe a par rmn , whi ind a pro dis pw ove the unr mar net .
gra des ove w is use to opt the con lik of the tar var - abl giv the obs var in the tra set .
the gra inv a ter whi is the pos pro of the tar var giv the obs , who com req tha we run pro inf ove the ent unr mar net .
in rel dom , thi net is typ lar and den con , mak exa inf int .
tas et al .
the pro the use of bel pro ( 123 , 123 ) .
123 sub tem in a lin gra
the str of lin gra has bee wid use to inf imp of doc in sci pub ( 123 ) and hyp ( pag ( 123 ) , hub and aut ( 123 ) ) .
soc net hav bee ext ana in the own rig in ord to qua tre in soc int ( 123 ) .
lin gra str has als bee use to imp doc cla ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in our exp , we fou tha the com of a rel lan wit a pro - abi gra mod pro a ver exi fra for mod com pat com in rel gra .
fir , as obs by get et al .
( 123 ) , the are oft cor - rel bet the att of ent and the rel in whi the par .
for exa , in a soc net , peo wit the sam hob are mor lik to be fri .
we can als exp cor bet the lab of ent and the rel typ .
for exa , onl stu can be tea ass in a cou .
we can eas cap suc cor by int cli tha inv the att .
imp , the cli are inf eve whe att are not obs in the tes dat .
for exa , if we hav evi ind an adv - adv rel , our pro tha x is a fac mem inc , and the our bel tha x par in a tea ass lin wit som ent z dec .
we als fou it use to con ric sub tem ove the lin gra .
one use typ of tem is a sim tem , whe obj tha sha a cer gra - bas pro are mor lik to hav the sam lab .
con , for exa , a pro x and two oth ent y and z .
if xs web men y and z in the sam con , it is lik tha the x - y rel and the y - z rel are of the sam typ for exa , if y is pro xs adv , the pro so is z .
our fra acc the pat eas , by int pai cli bet the app rel var .
ano use typ of sub tem inv tra pat , whe the pre - enc of an a - b lin and of a b - c lin inc ( or dec ) the lik of an a - c lin .
for exa , stu oft ass in cou tau by the adv .
not tha thi typ of int can be acc for jus usi pai cli .
by int cli ove tri of rel , we can cap suc pat as wel .
we can inc eve mor com pat , but of cou we are lim by the abi of bel pro to sca up as we int lar cli and tig loo in the mar net .
we not tha our abi to mod the mor com gra pat rel on our use
sec & tri
fig 123 : ( a ) rel pre wit ent lab giv .
rel mod on ave per bet tha the bas fla mod .
( b ) ent lab pre .
rel mod nei per sig bet .
( c ) rel pre wit ent lab .
rel mod per bet mos of the tim , eve tho the are sch tha som mod per wor .
of an und mar net as our pro mod .
in con , the app of get et al .
use dir gra mod ( bay net and prm ( 123 ) ) to rep - sen a pro mod of bot rel and att .
the app eas cap the dep of lin exi on att of ent .
but the con tha the pro - abi dep gra be a dir acy gra mak it har to see how we wou rep the sub pat des abo .
for exa , for the tra pat , we mig con sim dir the cor edg bet lin exi var arb .
how , it is not cle how we wou the par a lin exi var - abl for a lin tha is inv in mul tri .
see ( 123 ) for fur dis .
123 exp on web dat
we col and man lab a new rel dat ins by web ( 123 ) .
our dat con of com sci dep web fro 123 sch : sta , ber , and mit .
a tot of 123 of pag are lab int one of eig cat : fac , stu , res sci , sta , res gro , res pro , cou and org ( org ref to any lar ent tha is not a res gro ) .
own pag , whi are own by an ent but are not the mai pag for tha ent , wer man ass to tha ent .
the ave dis of cla acr sch is : org ( 123 ) , stu ( 123 ) , res gro ( 123 ) , fac ( 123 ) , cou ( 123 ) , res pro ( 123 ) , res sci ( 123 ) , and sta ( 123 ) .
we est a set of can lin bet ent bas on evi of a rel bet the .
one typ of evi for a rel is a hyp fro an ent pag or one of its own pag to the pag of ano ent .
a sec typ of evi is a vir lin : we ass a num of ali to eac pag usi the pag tit , the anc tex of inc lin , and ema add of the ent inv .
men an ali of a pag on ano pag con a vir lin .
the res set of 123 can lin wer lab as cor to one of ve rel typ adv ( fac , stu ) , mem - ber ( res gro / pro , stu / fac / res sci ) , tea ( fac / res sci - ent / sta , cou ) , ta ( stu , cou ) , par - of ( res gro , res pro ) or non , den tha the lin doe not cor to any of the rel .
the obs att for eac pag are the wor on the pag its and the met - wor on the pag the wor in the tit , sec hea , anc to the pag fro oth pag .
for lin , the obs att are the anc tex , tex jus bef the lin ( hyp or vir lin ) , and the hea of the sec in whi the lin app .
our tas is to pre the rel typ , if any , for all the can lin .
we tri two set for our exp : wit pag cat obs ( in the tes dat ) and pag cat uno .
for all our exp , we tra on two sch and tes on
the rem sch .
obs ent lab .
we rst pre res for the set wit obs pag cat - ego .
giv the pag lab , we can rul out man imp rel the res lab bre amo the can lin is : non ( 123 ) , mem ( 123 ) , par - of ( 123 ) , adv ( 123 ) , tea ( 123 ) , ta ( 123 ) .
the is a hug ran of pos mod tha one can app to thi tas .
we sel a
set of mod tha we fel rep som ran of pat tha man in the dat .
lin - fla is our bas mod , pre lin one at a tim usi mul lo - gis reg .
thi is a str cla , and its per is com wit oth cla ( e . g . , sup vec mac ) .
the fea use by thi mod are the lab of the two lin pag and the wor on the lin goi fro one pag and its own pag to the oth pag .
the num of fea is aro 123
the rel mod try to imp upo the bas mod by mod the int - tio bet rel and pre rel joi .
the sec mod int cli ove rel who lin app con in a sec on a pag .
thi mod tri to cap the pat tha sim rel ent ( e . g . , adv , mem of pro ) are oft lis tog on a web .
thi pat is a typ of sim tem , as des in sec 123
the tri mod is a typ of tra tem , as dis in sec 123
spe , we int cli ove set of thr can lin tha for a tri in the lin gra .
the sec + tri mod inc the cli of the two mod abo .
as sho in fig .
123 ( a ) , bot the sec and tri mod out the at mod , and the com mod has an ave acc gai of 123 : 123 , or 123 : 123 rel red in err .
as we onl hav thr run ( one for eac sch ) , we can mea ana the sta sig of thi imp .
as an exa of the int inf mad by the mod , we fou a stu - pro pai tha was mis by the fla mod as non ( the is onl a sin hyp fro the stu pag to the adv ) but cor ide by bot the sec - tio and tri mod .
the sec mod uti a par on the stu web des his res , wit a sec of lin to his res gro and the lin to his adv .
exa the par of the sec mod cli , we fou tha the mod lea tha it is lik for peo to men the res gro and adv in the sam sec .
by cap thi tre , the sec mod is abl to inc the con of the stu - adv rel .
the tri mod cor the sam mis in a dif way .
usi the sam exa , the tri mod mak use of the inf tha bot the stu and the tea bel to the sam res gro , and the stu tae a cla tau by his adv .
it is imp to not tha non of the oth rel are obs in the tes dat , but rat the mod boo its inf .
uno ent lab .
whe the lab of pag are not kno dur rel pre , we can rul out pos rel for can lin bas on the lab of par ent .
thu , we hav man mor can lin tha do not cor to any of our rel typ ( e . g . , lin bet an org and a stu ) .
thi mak the exi of rel a ver low pro eve , wit the fol bre amo the pot rel : non ( 123 ) , mem ( 123 ) , par - of ( 123 ) , adv ( 123 ) , tea ( 123 ) , ta ( 123 ) .
in add , whe we con a mar net in whi pag lab are not obs , the net is muc lar and den , mak the ( app ) inf tas muc har .
thu , in add to mod tha try to pre pag ent and rel lab sim , we als tri a two - pha app , whe we rst pre pag cat , and the use the pre lab as fea for the mod tha pre rel .
for pre pag cat , we com two mod .
ent - fla mod is mul - nom log reg tha use wor and met - wor fro the pag and its own pag in sep bag of wor .
the num of fea is rou 123 123
the nei - bor mod is a rel mod tha exp ano typ of sim tem : pag
123 ( cid : 123 ) obs
123 ( cid : 123 ) obs
fg lm bc ss
fig 123 : ( a ) ave pre / rec bre poi for 123 , 123 , 123 obs lin .
ave pre / rec bre poi for eac fol of sch res at 123 obs lin .
wit sim url oft bel to the sam cat or tig lin cat ( res gro / pro , pro / cou ) .
for eac pag , two pag wit url clo in edi dis - tan are sel as nei , and we int pai cli bet nei - ing pag .
123 ( b ) sho tha the nei mod cle out the fla mod acr all sch , by an ave of 123 : 123 acc gai .
giv the pag cat , we can now app the dif mod for lin cla - tio .
thu , the pha ( fla / fla ) mod use the ent - fla mod to cla the pag lab , and the the lin - fla mod to cla the can lin usi the res en - tit lab .
the pha ( nei / fla ) mod use the nei mod to cla the ent lab , and the the lin - fla mod to cla the lin .
the pha ( nei - bor / sec ) mod use the nei to cla the ent lab and the the sec mod to cla the lin .
we als tri two mod tha pre pag and rel lab sim .
the joi + nei mod is sim the uni of the nei mod for pag cat and the fla mod for rel lab giv the pag cat .
the joi + nei + sec mod add int the cli tha app in the sec mod bet lin tha app con in a sec on a pag .
we tra the joi mod to pre bot pag and rel lab sim .
as the pro of the non rel is so lar , we use the pro of non to den a pre - rec cur .
if thi pro is les tha som thr , we pre the mos lik lab ( oth tha non ) , oth we pre the mos lik lab ( inc - ing non ) .
as usu , we rep res at the pre - rec bre poi on the tes dat .
123 ( c ) sho the bre poi ach by the dif mod on the thr sch .
rel mod , bot pha and joi , did bet tha at mod on the av - era .
how , per var fro sch to sch and for bot joi and pha mod , per on one of the sch is wor tha tha of the at mod .
123 exp on soc net dat
the sec dat we use has bee col by a por web at a lar uni tha hos an onl com for stu ( 123 ) .
amo oth ser , it all stu to ent inf abo the , cre lis of the fri and bro the soc net - wor .
per inf inc res , gen , maj and yea , as wel as fav spo , mus , boo , soc act , etc .
we foc on the tas of pre the fri - shi lin bet stu fro the per inf and a sub of the lin .
we sel stu liv in six dif res or dor and res the dat to the fri lin onl wit eac res , eli int - res lin fro the dat to gen ind tra / tes spl .
eac res has abo 123 stu and an ave stu lis abo 123 of his or her hou - mat as fri .
we use an eig - fol tra - tes spl , whe we tra on fou res and tes on two .
pre lin bet two stu fro jus per inf alo is a
ver dif tas , so we tri a mor rea set , whe som pro of the lin is obs in the tes dat , and can be use as evi for pre the rem lin .
we use the fol pro of obs lin in the tes dat : 123 , 123 , and 123 .
the obs lin wer sel at ran , and the res we rep are ave ove ve fol of the ran sel tri .
usi jus the obs por of lin , we con the fol at fea : for eac stu , the pro of stu in the res tha lis him / her and the pro of stu he / she lis for eac pai of stu , the pro of oth stu the hav as com fri .
the val of the pro wer dis int fou bin .
the fea cap som of the rel str and dep bet lin : stu who lis ( or are lis by ) man fri in the obs por of the lin ten to hav lin in the uno por as wel .
mor imp , hav fri in com inc the lik of a lin bet a pai of stu .
the fla mod use log reg wit the abo fea as wel as per inf abo eac use .
in add to ind cha of the two peo , we als int a fea for eac mat of a cha , for exa , bot peo are com sci maj or bot are fre .
the com mod use a typ of sim tem , int cli be - twe eac pai of lin ema fro eac per .
sim to the fla mod , the cli inc a fea for eac mat of the cha of the two pot fri .
thi mod cap the ten of a per to hav fri who sha man cha - ist ( eve tho the per mig not pos the ) .
for exa , a stu may be fri wit sev cs maj , eve tho he is not a cs maj him .
we als tri mod tha use tra tem , but the app inf wit 123 - cli oft fai to con or pro err res .
123 ( a ) com the ave pre / rec bre ach by the dif mod at the thr dif set of obs lin .
123 ( b ) sho the per on eac of the eig fol con two res eac .
usi a pai t - tes , the com - pat mod out fla wit p - val 123 : 123 , 123 : 123 and 123 : 123 res .
123 dis and con in thi pap , we con the pro of lin pre in rel dom .
we foc on the tas of col lin cla , whe we are sim try to pre and cla an ent set of lin in a lin gra .
we sho tha the use of a pro mod ove lin gra all us to rep and exp int sub pat in the lin gra .
spe , we hav fou two typ of pat tha see to be ben in sev pla .
sim tem rel the cla of lin or obj tha sha a cer gra - bas pro ( e . g . , lin tha sha a com end ) .
tra tem rel tri of obj and lin org in a tri .
we sho tha the use of the pat sig imp the cla acc ove at mod .
rel mar net are not the onl met one mig con app to the lin pre and cla tas .
we cou , for exa , bui a lin pre tha con oth lin in the gra by con gra fea int at fea ( 123 ) , as we did in the soc net dat .
as our exp sho , eve wit the fea , the col pre app wor bet .
ano app is to use rel cla suc as var of ind log pro ( 123 ) .
gen , how , the met hav bee app to the pro of pre or cla a sin lin at a tim .
it is not cle how wel the wou ext to the tas of sim pre an ent lin gra .
fin , we cou app the dir prm fra of ( 123 ) .
how , as sho in ( 123 ) , the dis tra rmn per sig bet tha gen tra prm eve on the sim ent cla tas .
fur , as we dis , the prm fra can rep ( in any nat way ) the typ of sub pat tha see pre in lin gra dat .
the , the rmn fra see muc mor
app for thi tas .
alt the rmn fra wor fai wel on thi tas , the is sig roo for imp .
one of the key pro lim the app of app is the rel on bel pro , whi oft doe not con in mor com pro .
thi pro is esp acu in the lin pre pro , whe the pre of all pot lin lea to den con mar net wit man sho loo .
thi pro can be add wit heu tha foc the sea on lin tha are pla ( as we did in a ver sim way in the web exp ) .
a mor int sol wou be to dev a mor int app inf / lea alg .
our res use a set of rel pat tha we hav dis to be use in the dom tha we hav con .
how , man oth ric and int pat are pos .
thu , in the rel set , eve mor so tha in sim tas , the iss of fea con is cri .
it is the imp to exp the pro of aut fea ind , as in ( 123 ) .
fin , we bel tha the pro of mod lin gra has num oth ap - pli , inc : ana com of peo and hie str of org - niz , ide peo or obj tha pla cer key rol , pre cur and fut int , and mor .
ack .
thi wor was sup by onr con f12 - 123 - 123 - 123 - p12 und dar eel pro .
abb was sup by a sie gra .
fel .
