sta , ca 123 - 123
the pro tha a ran ind in cla is als in cla .
the eff of the alg re -
kno rep lan inv ree a tra - off bet exp and tra .
evi - den sug tha the com cho by des - tio log is a par suc one .
how , des log ( as for all var of rst - ord log ) is sev lim in its abi to exp unc .
in thi pap , we pre p - cla , a pro ver of the des log cla .
tio to ter kno , the lan uti bay net to exp unc abo the ba - sic pro of an ind , the num of lle for its rol , and the pro of the lle .
we pro a sem for p - cla and an eff inf pro for pro sub : com
lie on ind ass and on our abi to exe lif inf : rea abo sim ind - vid as a gro rat tha as sep gro ter .
we sho tha the com of the inf alg is the bes tha can be hop for in a lan tha com des log wit bay net .
in par , if we res to bay net tha sup pol tim inf , the com of our inf pro is als pol tim .
fir - ord log has bee the bas for mos kno rep - res for .
its bas uni , the pro , and the rel bet the cap - tur the way in whi peo enc the kno .
un - for , it is sev lim in its abi to rep our unc abo the wor : a fac can onl be kno to be tru , kno to be fal , or nei .
by con , mos of our kno abo the rea wor is not abs tru , but onl tru wit som deg of cer .
thi lim - tio ren rst - ord log ina to a lar ran of
the fun ste in add thi pro was tak by bac ( 123 ) and hal ( 123 ) .
the den and ana way in whi pro can be add to
rst - ord log , and cla the sem of the res for .
the wor foc on pro ext of ful rst - ord log .
as a con , the log wer sho to be hig und ( muc mor so eve tha rst - ord log ) .
fur , the do not sup a nat and com spe of ind ass , whi are cru to get non con fro a pro kno bas .
the has bee a rec mov tow int pro - abi int les exp sub of rst - ord log .
by and lar , kno rep for bas on sub of rst - ord log fal int two cat : rul - bas lan , and obj - cen for ( e . g . , fra - bas lan , des log ) .
so far , mos wor on pro ext has foc on aug - ing rul - bas lan ( gol and cha , 123 bre , 123 poo , 123 ngo et al . , 123 ) .
in thi pa - per , we tak a rst ste tow int pro wit obj - cen lan , by dev a pro - tic des log .
our lan pro the abi to des cla of ind , and to rea abo the re - lat bet cla .
( bin rel ) .
for a giv ind , the ind - ual rel toa by som rol are cal the - lle ofa .
des log all us to des cla of r - lle of an ind , and the pro of the lle .
des log are sub of rst - ord log wit equ tha hav bee des to mod ric cla hie - arc .
inf , in a des log we beg wit a set of pri con ( i . e . , una pre ) and rol
ind ( com con ) bas on the pro : the pri con to whi the bel , the num of
des log sup sub que one com con is alw a sub of ano , and mem que a par ind is an ins of a giv con .
sev sys hav bee bui bas on des log - ics ( e . g . , cla ( bra et al . , 123 ) , loo ( mac - gor , 123 ) , and bac ( pet , 123 ) ) , and the hav bee use in sev app ( e . g . , ( wri et al . , 123 ) ) .
in add , sev inf int sys ( e . g . , the inf man ( lev et al . , 123 ) and sim ( are et al . , 123 ) ) use des log to rep the inf -
ind ind .
by con , sta sub can onl tel us whe thi num is 123 ( d is sub byc ) , 123 ( d is dis fro ) , or som in bet .
ess ide ( e . g . , dif - lle of the sam
of cou , the fac tha our rep uni det - min thi num doe not nec imp tha we can eff com it in pra .
we sho tha the par - tic des log and ind ass tha we hav mad als ena us to dev an eff inf - enc alg for p - cla .
the alg fol the sam gen lin as the inf alg for sta cla , by rep con as a gra .
how , in p - cla we rep the log inf for com pie of the gra by inf wit bay net for com the pro of par of the gra .
fur - mor , in con to oth alg for rea in oth rst - ord pro for , our alg imp - men a for of lif inf at the lev of var rat tha at the lev of gro ter .
thi is pos bec our ind ass ena the alg to reu com for ind tha are
ind ) .
we sho tha , in som sen , the com - ity of thi alg is the bes tha can be hop for in a lan tha com the exp pow of cla - sic and bay net .
in par , if we res to pol tim bay net ( e . g . , pol ( pea , 123 ) ) the com of our inf alg rem
sev wor ( sha , 123 jae , 123 hei , 123 ) hav con pro ext of des - tio log .
the , the foc was on com par sta - tis inf usi def pro pro suc as ent max or cro - ent min - tio , or on der the min con ava fro a sma , inc set of pro sta .
by con - tra , our app fol the mor rec tra , es - tab by bay net , of hav the pro kno bas com spe a pro dis - tio .
the ful spe app has bee sho to be bot con and com sim .
as we hav dis , sim com ben are obt in our fra , whi sup an inf alg whi is sig mor efc tha tho for the pre - vio wor on pro ter lan .
iti con ( una pre ) a and rol ( bin rel - tio ) r .
the lan use a set of con to bui
we rst bri rev the var of the cla des - tio log tha und p - cla , and the des the pro of p - cla .
fin , we des how the com com tog to for a p - cla
123 the des log the bas voc of a des log con of pri -
123 the p - cla lan
des , den new cla of ind cal com -
mat sou by spe the cla of ind con - tai in the inf sou .
for exa , an ind mig be one art in a bib dat .
to ret the com ans to a que , the sys acc eac inf sou who des ove wit the de - scr of the que .
one of the mai lim of des log is tha the can exp ver lit abo the ove bet two con .
giv two con , we can inf tha one sub - sum the oth , tha the are dis , or tha the may hav a non - emp ove .
how , the deg of the ove can be des or inf .
the nee for suc kno is cle dem in the inf int - gra dom .
acc eve inf sou whi pot ove wit our que may be pro exp .
if we wan the sys to nd a lar fra of the ans as soo as pos , it is ver imp to inf the deg of ove bet cla of ind .
in gen , of cou , the dom con of man dif - fer typ of ind .
it is rar the cas tha the sam dis wil be app for eac of the .
for exa , the dis ove the pro of an ind - ual is usu qui dif fro the dis ove the pro of its lle .
the , the pro com - pon of a p - cla kno bas inc a num of dif p - cla ( pro cla ) , eac of whi is a bay net ove bas pro , the num
in thi pap , we des a lan , p - cla , whi is a pro ext of the des log cla - sic .
p - cla all the spe of a pro dis ove the pro of ind .
as the ba - sic rep too , we use bay net ( pea , 123 ) .
bay net all a com and nat rep - res of com pro dis by usi ind ass .
in thi cas , we use a bay net who ran var are the bas pro of ind ( the pri con ) , the num of the lle , and the pro of the lle .
ofr - lle ( for the dif rol ) , and the p - cla c;d , wha is the pro tha hol wit the set of
the sem for p - cla is a sim ext to the sta sem of cla .
fol ( hal , 123 ) , we int a p - cla as a pro dis ove the ele in the dom .
int , thi cor to the pro of cho ( enc ) thi ele in thi p - cla .
by ass tha the p - cla dis is as des in the cor bay net , and tha lle are cho ind of eac oth ( fro the app p - cla ) , we can sho tha our p - cla uni det the pro of any com con .
a p - cla kno bas all us to ans any pro sub que : for two com con
fro whi the rol lle are cho .
in add to the pro com , a p - cla kno bas als con a sta ter com , des com con in ter of pri one .
in thi pap we do not con kno bas wit gro fac ( i . e . ,
( neg on pri con )
the non - pro com of the p - cla lan - gua is a var of the cla des log
to sta rol .
att are bin rel whi are fun : eac ind has exa one lle for tha at - tri .
in p - cla we add the res tha the lle for an att be one of a nit pre set of ind .
com des in our lan are bui usi the
cla , we als all a set of att in add fol gra , whe den a pri con - cep , rr a rol , qq den an att , and and d rep con des : ( ( cid : 123 ) nr ) j ( ( cid : 123 ) nr ) j ( num res ) nol dt ( the tbo ) and a set of gro ato fac da ten of the for : =d , whe is a nam of a den con and is a des .
eac den con is tio .
a can for of a des is ( cid : 123 ) u ( cid : 123 ) r12 whe ( cid : 123 ) is a con of pri con and the att app mor tha onc ) , and ( cid : 123 ) r is of the for ( ( cid : 123 ) mrr ) u ( ( cid : 123 ) nrr ) u ( r : c ) , whe is als in des is den as fol .
the dep of ( cid : 123 ) is 123
the dep of a con ( cid : 123 ) u ( cid : 123 ) r12 u : : : u ( cid : 123 ) rm is 123 ( dep ( ( cid : 123 ) ) , dep ( ( cid : 123 ) r12 ) , : : : , dep ( ( cid : 123 ) rm ) ) .
rea fam wit cla wil see tha our lan doe not con cla sam - as con , but doe sup neg on pri con tha is not all in cla .
cla als all the lls con to be ap - pli to non .
it sho be not tha all neg on pri con doe not cha the exp - siv pow of cla it the fol fro ( bor and pat - sch , 123 ) tha sub in the lan des abo can be don in pol tim .
( the abo ) .
in thi pap , we do not con abo .
in cla , a ter con two kin of sta : con int , des the pri con in the ter , and con den , spe the de - ned con .
in p - cla a ter inc onl the con den ( as we des sho ) , whi con - cep int are giv as par of the pro - pon of a kno bas .
a con den is a sen -
den by a sin con den , and we ass tha nam of den con do not app in the des . 123 in our ana , we use the can for of a des -
can for .
any des in our lan can be con to can for in lin tim .
the dep of a
neg and of lle spe ( wit no con or
a des log kno bas d
inc a ter -
123 is not a res whe the ter has no cyc ( as in cla ) bec the den in the ter can be unf .
how , as usu , unf a ter may cau its siz to gro exp .
cla ( p - cla ) p spe a pro dis ove the tha an obj bel to con giv tha it bel to con ? .
we wri suc que as pr ( djc ) .
set of p - cla .
int , a p - cla rep our pro - eac p - cla is rep usi a bay net - wor ( pea , 123 ) np .
a bay net is a dag in
pro of ind , all us to den the ext of the ove bet the .
fro the num , and app - pri pro ind ass , we are abl to ded the ans to arb pro sub - tio que : que of the for wha is the pro
123 the pro com of p - cla the mai mot for p - cla is to be abl to exp the deg of ove bet con .
a pro
abi inf rel to a cer cla of ind .
the pro com of p - cla con of a
whi the nod rep ran var .
eac var tak on a val in som pre ran .
eac nod in the net is ass wit a con pro ta - ble ( cpt ) , whi den the pro of eac pos val of the nod , giv eac com of val for the nod par in the dag .
the net str enc the ind ass tha onl the par val are rel whe mak thi cho .
a bay net de - nes a joi pro dis ove all com of val of the var in the net .
the pro of a par ass of val is the pro ove all the nod in the net of the con pro of the val of tha nod giv the val of its par .
a , - m - a , m - a , - m
ple , con the tru ass ( ani : veg
fig 123 sho par of the bay net for a p - cla .
thi net con a nod for eac of the pri con ani , veg , mam , car and her .
the val of eac nod is eit tru or fal , dep on whe an obj bel to the con or not .
the net den a joi pro dis ove the set of tru ass to the con .
for exa -
nat thi p - cla .
the bay net for
com by the pro
of pri con and the neg , the pro
: mam car : her ) .
its pro is pr ( ani ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( : veg ani ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( : mam ani ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( car ani : mam ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( : her ani car ) = 123 : 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 : 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 : 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 123 : 123 : in gen , np wil con a nod for eac pri con - cep .
for any des whi is a con np ( c ) is den by the net .
thi all sim sub - sum que of the for pr ( djc ) to be ans whe bot and are con of pri con dis ove att val .
for eac att q , np con a nod fil ( q ) .
the cpt for a nod lis som nit set of obj : : : ;vk , and for eac , the pro tha ( lls ) hol giv eac pos eac rol , the net spe the num of r - lle by inc a num ( r ) nod , whi tak on val bet 123 and som upp bou .
the nod val den the num ofr - lle tha the obj has .
whi the lle are cho .
thu , for eac rol , the the set of p - cla .
thi nod is alw det , of an obj .
one of the p - cla , den ( cid : 123 ) net ( cid : 123 ) .
as we tra the bay net fro its
i . e . , for any com of val of its par , exa one p - cla is ass pro 123 , and all oth p - cla are ass pro 123
for sim of pre , we pla som res on the top of the net .
we ass tha a num ( r ) nod may onl be a par of the cor pc ( r ) nod .
the pc ( r ) nod may not be a par of any oth nod .
the pro com of a p - cla kno bas rec des a dis ove the pro , is the roo p - cla , den the dis ove all obj .
the pro of an obj are cho acc to the bay
com of val for the nod par .
not tha the nod for an att als enu the set of val tha the att may tak , and the can be use ins of cla one - of con for att .
to des the pro of the lle , we sim ass a p - cla for eac rol , whi spe the dis fro
to ful des an ind , we als nee to des the num of its var lle and the pro
net con a pc ( r ) nod , who val ran ove
the net for a p - cla als det the pro
and the neg .
roo dow , eac nod tel us the pro wit whi its val sho be cho .
the roo nod are cho wit the app unc pro , whi the dis use for oth nod is det by pri cho for the val of the par .
in par , the net dic how the num of lle for eac rol is cho giv the bas pro and att val .
by spe the p - cla for the lle , the net spe how the pro of the lle are cho rec usi a sim pro .
as sta ear , cla all us to sta con in - tro in its ter .
in p - cla , con in - tro can be rep dir in the pro
des .
for sim of exp , we ass tha
com of the kno bas ( in fac , con int - duc are a spe cas of pro ass )
con int is a sen of the for ( cid : 123 ) d , whe is a nam of a pri con and is a con d doe not men any of the rol .
( in sec 123 we ' 123 : : : ; ' n is a lis of con int , the the de - scr in ' i can onl men the con int in ' 123 : : : ; ' i ( cid : 123 ) 123 , or the con thi ( whi den the set of all ind ) .
a con int ( cid : 123 ) d is cla tha the pro of : dua is 123
sin the con by mak the con app ind par ofa , and set the app ent in the cpt for to 123
in the nat thi p - cla , pr ( ani ) = 123 : 123 , whi pr ( veg ani ) = 123 , and pr ( veg : ani ) = 123
the ass enc the ter - and pr ( mam ani ) = 123 : 123
onl ani can : ani , mam are irr sin tha com
fig 123 sho the pro com of the kno - bas for a dom of nat obj .
the are thr p - cla , eac bei a net con the nod ani , veg , mam , car , her , fil ( siz ) , num ( eat ) and pc ( eat ) .
log kno tha eve is eit an ani or a veg , and the two con are dis . 123 in the cpt for mam , we see tha onl ani can be mam ,
des how to rem thi res . ) as in cla , we con con int tha are acy , i . e . , if
be car , and mam are mor lik tha oth ani to be car the ent in the col for
enc in the kno bas by spe in eac p -
int are acy , we can enc thi inf
is imp .
the fil ( siz ) nod ind tha the val of the siz att mus be big , med , or sma , and the con pro of eac val .
sin veg don eat , num ( eat ) is alw 123 if veg is tru , whi for non - veg ( i . e . , ani ) it is a num be - twe 123 and 123 wit the giv dis .
fin , pc ( eat ) dep on car and her : for car it is car foo , for her it is her foo , whi for thi whi are nei it is nat thi .
sin not is bot a car and a her , tha col - umn is irr .
the car foo p - cla
nat thi con on ani bei tru .
thu veg is fal , and the oth nod onl con col tha are con wit the fac .
her foo is the sam as nat thi con - tio on veg bei tru .
in thi cas the p - cla is det exc for the val of fil ( siz ) , sin ani , mam , car and her are all fal , and num ( eat ) is 123
pc ( eat ) is irr sin the are no eat - lle .
123 spe , the pro ver of thi sta is sli wea tha the ter ver , bec it is pos tha the set of thi tha are bot ani and veg is non - emp but of mea zer .
fig 123 : p - cla for the nat dom .
a , - m - a , m - a , - m
123 sem of p - cla
the sem of p - cla is an ext of the sem of cla .
the bas ele is an int .
it ass
int con a non - emp dom to eve ind , a una rel to eve con nam , a bin rel to eve rol , and a tot fun : o ! o to eve att .
the int as fol ( ) fsg den the car of a set ) : an int is a mod of a ter dt if for eve con den : =d in dt .
a con is sai to be sub by a con w . r . t .
a ter dt ifc ( cid : 123 ) di for eve mod of dt .
wit a dis ove the dom p des a ran eve : the sel of an ind
in ord to ext thi sem to p - cla , we hav to pro an int for the p - cla .
fol ( hal , 123 ) , we int a p - cla as an obj ( sta - tis ) pro . 123 tha is , eac p - cla wil be ass .
int , a p - cla
of the des are den rec on the str
123 is als pos to asc sem to thi lan usi sub pro , i . e . , dis ove pos int - tat .
for our pur , the sta int is qui nat , and sig sim to exp .
fro the dom .
the pro wit whi an ind - ual is cho dep on its pro ( as det by the oth com of the int ) .
fir , a tru ass to the pri con and an ass of val to att is cho , acc to the pro
dis den in the net .
giv thi ass - den 123 : let be som int ove our vo - cab .
a pro dis ( cid : 123 ) ove wit a p - cla if the fol con hol .
for eve con des suc tha : ( a ) for eve pri cla , c con eit or : a as a con , ( b ) for eve att , c con a con ( lls qv ) for som , and ( c ) for eve rol , c con a con ( =hr ) for som int , 123 123 ( cid : 123 ) ( ci ) =np ( c ) , i . e . , the pro of the set of in - div in the int ofc is the sam as the pro ass toc by the bay net for .
for eve rol , con the exp con of sel an obj acc to ( cid : 123 ) , con on the 123 use ( =hr ) as a sho for ( ( cid : 123 ) hr ) u ( ( cid : 123 ) hr ) .
men , the num of lle for eac rol is cho , acc to the con pro tab of the num nod .
fin , the pro of the lle are cho , usi ano ran eve , as des by the p - cla det by the pc nod for the app rol .
our sem req tha the pro of cho an ele be con wit thi typ of ran exp for cho its pro .
we hav tha :
for a p - cla
des log com and a set of pro dis -
in oth wor , the exp jus des gen - era the sam dis whe we als con on pro of oth lle , and rec on the pro - tie of lle of oth lle , and so on .
thi ind ass app bot to oth lle of the sam rol , and to lle of oth rol .
, and pic one ofx - lle at ran .
thi exp gen a new dis ( cid : 123 ) mus be con wit is the det val ofn ( pc ( r ) jc ) .
giv , the dif lle are all ind of eac
we can now den an int kno bas to con of an int for the , one for eve p - cla , suc tha ( cid : 123 ) ip is con wit .
for any des , we say ipj pr ( d ) = ( cid : 123 ) if ( cid : 123 ) ip ( cid : 123 ) ( d ) = ( cid : 123 ) , whe ( cid : 123 ) dis for - lle mus ass a non - zer pro to som ele .
if tha ele is cho as the rst - r - lle , the vio the ind con .
in an inn dom , on the oth han , ( cid : 123 ) ip is a pro - any des , the is a uni ( cid : 123 ) ( 123 123 ) suc tha
the con in den 123 are suf to gua - ant tha the pro of any des is uni det by a p - cla kno bas .
as we wil see , thi res is a con of the fac tha a bay net uni spe a pro dis , and of our ind ass .
the fol the is pro by ind on the dep of the can for of a the 123 : for any p - cla kno bas d
abi mea ove the dom .
whi eac ind ele has pro zer of bei sel , the mea ass a non - zer pro to pro of ele .
in fac , we can con a dom of thi typ , by den do - mai ele to cor to the set of des - log pro tha the sat .
thi con is the bas for the fol the .
pro of the are omi due to spa lim .
thi res fol bec the acy and loc of the cpt pre us fro spe an inc set of pro con ( inc wit res to ter - log inf ) .
not tha a sat int may ass the emp set to som con .
one som cou con of the ind - pen ass is tha if any rol has non - zer pro - abi of hav mor tha one lle , the any mod for the kno bas mus be inn .
in a nit dom , the
the 123 : a p - cla kno bas is alw sat - isa in som int .
lle , the by the req tha dif rol - lle be dis , it mus hav zer pro of bei the sec
is the roo
123 inf alg
it is pos to dev a sim alg for com the
net ter , thi pro is d - sep ( pea , 123 ) fro the res of the net by num ( r ) and pc ( r ) .
thu , we can add a nod to the net rep the
cos of suc a pro wou be exp in the dep of the con and in the num of pri con and att .
to obt a tra alg , we mak two obs .
fir , pro can be com bot up , beg wit sub of dep 123
pro of dee exp are com usi the sto pro - abi of the sub .
the sec obs is
pro of a con of the for ( cid : 123 ) u ( cid : 123 ) r12 u : : : u ( cid : 123 ) rm , by rst com the pro of ( cid : 123 ) , and the , rec , com the pro of ( cid : 123 ) r12 : : : ; ( cid : 123 ) rm .
how , the tha the pro tha ( cid : 123 ) r hol is com det by the num and p - cla of the - lle .
eve ( cid : 123 ) r , wit the par num ( r ) and pc ( r ) .
for eac pai of val ( h;p ) for the par , we can com the con pro of ( cid : 123 ) r giv and the ass as evi tha all the ( cid : 123 ) r hol , as wel as ( cid : 123 ) , and com the pro ofc by com the pro and com .
in oth wor , for any des and , it ret the num ( cid : 123 ) suc alg is lin in the len ofc and pol in put is lin in the len ofc and qua in the num of p - cla ink .
if all the bay net - mam ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 eat ) uea . mam usi the net con the dep 123 sub .
the rst sta of the com cal pro ( mam ) for
we rel on the bay net inf alg to com thi pro in the mos efc man pos - sib .
in par , if the ori net is a pol , 123 thu sup lin tim inf , the new net wil con to sup lin tim inf aft the tra - mat .
the com alg is sho in fig 123
the 123 : alg com is sou p - cla kno bas d
the num of p - cla .
it is imp to not tha the com of rea in p - cla is no wor tha tha of its com , i . e . , cla and bay net alo .
the 123 : the run tim of alg com -
wor for the p - cla are pol , the the run tim of com is als pol in the siz of the
, and add it to the con pro tab for the new nod
in fig 123
the dep of thi exp is 123 , and it
the fol the sho tha the com of the
as an exa , con com the pro of
of the evi in the bay net .
eac of the p - cla nat thi , car foo the pro are fou to and her foo
123 pol is a bay net who und und gra is acy , i . e . , the is onl one pat of inu bet any pai of nod .
pol sup lin tim pro inf ( pea , 123 ) .
, cpt ) add nod n wit par p
/ / add ( bn , n , p / / con pro tab cpt to bay net bn .
/ / add ( bn , n = v ) ass tha n has val v in bn .
/ / eva ( bn ) com the pro of the evi in bn .
/ / c is a des in can for .
/ / kb is a p - cla kno bas .
/ / ret ( cid : 123 ) suc tha ( pr ( c ) = ( cid : 123 ) ) .
for = 123 tod ( c ) for eac p - cla and sub of dep inc do : / / whe ( c ) , onl do thi for the roo p - cla ( cid : 123 ) for : = 123 to m / / ski if m = 123 for : = 123 tob / / bj is the bou on the for eac p - cla / / num ofr - lle cpt ( h;p tru ) : = pro ( dj ) h els cpt ( h;p tru ) : = 123 cpt ( h;p fal ) = 123 - cpt ( h;p tru ) add ( bn , ( cid : 123 ) rj , p / / i . e . , add for eac con in ( cid : 123 ) pro ( c ) = eva ( bn ) pro ( cid : 123 ) ( mam ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 eat ) uea . mam ) .
in thi des , ( cid : 123 ) is mam , and the is one ( cid : 123 ) com - nen cor to the eat rol . p ( cid : 123 ) nat thi .
a nod is add ton ( cid : 123 ) for ( cid : 123 ) eat , sho the con pro tha ( cid : 123 ) eat is tru for qui tha ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 eat ) , the ent in the rst col are ous com val of pro ( mam ) .
the rem - ing ent in the rst row are 123 : 123 , 123 : 123 and so on .
sim , the ent for car foo are 123 , 123 : 123 , pro ( mam ) = 123
the pro of our que is mal and ( cid : 123 ) eat to be tru , res in an ans of app -
whe the is exa one lle of the p - cla nat thi , the ent is 123 , whi is the pre -
the com in the res net , by ass mam -
wit the par num ( eat ) and pc ( eat ) .
fig 123
eac val of its par .
bec the des re -
the ent for her foo are all 123 bec
fig 123 : alg com
be 123 , 123 and 123 res .
nex we cal
is the p - cla
giv val of num ( eat ) and pc ( eat ) .
inf alg .
in thi sec , we dis sev fea - tur and lim of the exp pow of p - cla .
we men sev pos ext bot to the und - lyi des log and to the pro com .
we exa the ext to whi the ext can be ac - com in our fra and how the wou aff the com of rea .
fig 123 : the pro of ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 eat ) u ( eat . mam ) by exp the pro tha the num of lle isn usi a clo for fun ( n ) .
the inf pro nit ser inv ( n ) .
alt , arb clo
123 the und des log p - cla can be eas ext to han dis con , exi qua , neg on arb con ( not onl pri one ) and qua num res .
our sem pro a wel - den pro - bil for des usi the con .
how , the inf alg for com pro for suc des is sig mor com , and is no lon pol in the len of the des .
thi is not sur , sin the low bou ( np - har or wor ) of sub in the pre of the con wil app to the pro ext as wel .
ano res , as men abo , is tha the num - ber of lle for eac rol be bou .
thi res exi for two rea .
fir , it all us to com spe the dis ove the num of lle for a rol .
sec , the inf alg con all pos val for the num of lle , so thi res is req to gua tha the alg ter .
we can add the rst iss
is som har .
in cer cas , the alg may be abl to com a clo for exp for an in -
app to the tru pro can be obt by sum a suf lon nit pre of thi ser .
the onl con fro cla tha is not inc in p - cla is sam - as , whi ena to des equ - ity of att pat ( e . g . , to sta tha the pat wif . fat rea the sam ind as the pat mot ) .
suc equ are har to inc int our lan be - cau our sem dep hea on the ass tha dif lle are com ind .
equ of ind rea via dif lle cha obv con thi ind ass .
123 dis and ext
the mot in des p - cla was to dev a tra rst - ord pro log .
to tha end , we hav sho tha p - cla has a sou , com and efc
123 the pro com the tra of our lan res hea on the in - dep ass mad in the pro com - nen : ( 123 ) the pro of dif lle are ind ,
and ( 123 ) the pro of an obj and of one of its lle are ind giv the lle p - cla .
for exa , our ass pre us fro sta tha a non - car alw eat at lea one veg .
suc an ass wou imp tha the eat - lle are not ind , sin if all but one of the lle are not veg , the las one mus be .
thu , alt we can ( alb at a hig com cos ) com the pro any des wit dis or exi , we can ass ter pro inv the con wit mod the sem .
one typ of cor bet lle can act be dea wit fai eas wit our fra .
ass tha our voc con the con hea - to - eat .
we may wan to ass tha the hea of the var - ous foo eat by a per ten to be cor .
we can acc thi by int a new con hea - con and two p - cla rep hea foo and unh foo .
the val of the nod pc ( eat ) can now dep on the val of hea - con , in tha a val of hea foo is mor lik whe hea - con is tru .
thi new con is a hid con ( ana to a hid var in bay net ) .
it pla the sam rol as a reg pri con in the def - ini of the p - cla , but it is not a pri con in the lan and the doe not app in the ter or in que .
one pro alt wit gre exp pow ari fro our rec wor on fun sto pro - gra ( kol et al . , 123 ) .
the bas ide is tha we vie eac p - cla as a sto fun , and eac ind as a cal to the fun for tha app p - cla .
a cal to suc a sto fun cho ( ran ) the pro - tie of the ind for whi it is cal .
the pro of the lle for an ind are cho by rec cal to the fun for the app p - cla .
onc we vie a lle as a fun , we can pas the rel pro of the ind ( e . g . , on - a - die ) as a par to the fun .
the par can dir inu the dis of the lle pro .
in our exa of sec 123 , the p - cla for car foo and her foo are equ to tho tha wou hav bee obt had we pas the val of ani to the lle as a par ( wit a val of tru and fal res ) .
con . low - fat .
the nod rep cho - a ( cid : 123 ) d whe is an arb com con
wha sur , we can acc the fun vie
in add to tak arg , a sto fun can als ret val .
in our con , thi fea wou all pro of an obj to dep on tho of its lle .
thu , for exa , we can hav the pro ove the cho - lev att dep on the act fat con of the foo eat by the per .
we cou rep thi typ of dep by int a nod int the bay net cor to the com
lev can now be a chi of thi new nod , enc the des dep .
in gen , we cou hav lle rec - siv pas bac the tru val of dee nes com con .
thi ext sup con int
of lle fai eas wit our fra , and wit a sig inc in com cos .
we def det to the ful ver of thi pap .
ack we tha man jae for use dis .
som of thi wor was don whi dap kol and avi pfe wer vis at& res .
thi wor was als sup thr the gen of the pow - ell fou , by onr gra n12 - 123 - 123 - 123 , and by dar con dac - 123 - c - 123 , und sub to inf ext and tra , inc .
