two of the mos imp thr of wor in kno rep tod are fra - bas rep sys ( frs ) and bay net ( bns ) .
frs pro an ex - cel rep for the org str of lar com dom , but the app is lim bec of the ina to dea wit unc and noi .
bns pro - vid an int and coh pro rep of our unc , but are ver lim in the abi to han com str dom .
in thi pap , we pro a lan - gua tha cle int the app , pre the adv of bot .
our app all us to pro nat and com den of pro mod for a cla , in a way tha is loc to the cla fra .
the mod can be ins for any set of int ins , res in a coh pro dis ove the ins pro - tie .
our lan als all us to rep imp typ of unc tha can be acc wit the fra - wor of tra bns : unc ove the set of ent pre in our mod , and unc abo the rel bet the ent .
we pro an inf alg for our lan via a red to inf in sta bay net .
we des an imp sys tha all mos of the mai fra sys in exi tod to ann the kno bas wit pro inf , and to use tha inf in ans pro que .
fra rep sys ( frs ) are cur the pri - mar tec use for lar sca kno rep - tio in ai ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the mod org acc to cog mea ent and the abi to cap pat com to man ind pro a con lan for rep com str dom mod - els .
one of the mos sig gap in the exp pow of thi typ of fra is its ina to rep and rea wit unc and noi inf .
unc is una in the rea wor : our inf is oft ina - cur and alw inc , and onl a few of the rul tha we use for rea are tru in all pos cas .
in the pro set , thi pro has lar bee res ove the pas dec by the dev of
cop 123 , ame ass for art int -
gen ( www . aaa . org ) .
all rig res .
pro rea sys , and par bay net ( 123 ) .
a bay net ( bn ) is a rep of a ful joi dis ove a set of ran var it can be use to ans que abo any of its var giv any evi .
a bn all a com dis to be rep com by usi the loc of inu in our mod of the wor .
but , lik all pro sys , the app of bns is lar lim to sit tha can be enc , in adv , usi a xed set of att .
thu , the are ina for lar - sca com kr tas .
bui on our rec wor ( 123 , 123 ) , we pro a rep - tat lan tha int fra - rep sys and bay net , the pro the rst bri bet the two ver dif thr of wor in kr .
the key com in our rep is the ann of a fra wit a pro mod .
thi pro mod is , bro spe , a bn rep a dis ove the pos val of the slo in the fra .
tha is , eac sim - ple slo in the fra is ann wit a loc pro mod , rep the dep of its val on the val - ues of rel slo .
for exa , in a fra rep a phd stu , the val of the slo yea - to - gra may dep on the slo yea and the slo cha adv . pic .
as we can see eve fro thi sim exa , by bui - ing on sta frs fun , our app pro sig mor exp pow tha tra bns .
for exa , by all the pro mod of a slo to dep on a slo cha , we all the pro of one in - sta in the mod to dep on pro of oth rel ins .
we can als use the sta cla hie of the frs to all the pro mod of a cla to be use by mul ins of tha cla , and to all inh of pro mod fro cla to sub , usi the sam mec in whi slo val are cur inh .
fin , by mak dom ind rst - cla cit in our fra we can als exp a new and imp typ of unc cal str unc .
we can hav a pro mod exp our unc abo the set of ent in our mod , e . g . , the num of phd stu in a dep .
we can als rep unc abo rel bet ent , e . g . , whi of sev con a pap app in .
we pro a pro inf alg for our lan bas on an app kno as kno - bas
mod con .
the alg tak a kno bas in our lan , inc a set of ins , and gen a sta bn whi can the be que eff for our bel abo the val of any slo .
our pro mod is exp usi sta fra rep tec suc as fac and val res - tio .
thi pro is imp , sin it all our app to be use wit vir any fra sys , and the to ann exi kbs wit pro inf .
par , we hav imp a sys bas on our ap - pro , cap of int wit mos exi frs via okb ( 123 ) , an eme sta for frs int .
our wor is a sig imp ove pre ap - pro to com rst - ord log and bay net - wor .
mos of the att in thi dir ( e . g . , ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) use pro hor cla as the bas rep .
the cho of hor cla as an und lan al - rea dic som of the pro of the rep , e . g . , its ina to enc an obj and its pro wit a cog mea fra .
mor , the use of str unc in thi fra typ cau com blo of the res mod , lea mos app to out it ent .
our fra als ove - com som maj lim of our ear pro ( 123 , 123 ) , by all bot str unc ( abs in the rst ) and pro dep bet ins ( abs in it als pro the cru abi , abs in bot , to cre com mod con man ins tha are con to eac oth in a var of way .
123 bas rep
we beg wit som bas ter for fra sys .
the ter var wid fro sys to sys .
thi pap we ado the lan and bas kno mod of the okb pro ( 123 ) .
the bas uni of dis in a fra sys is a fra .
a fra has a set of slo , eac of whi may hav slo val or lle .
for , a slo rep a bin rel on fra if the lle of slo a in fra x is fra y , the the rel ax; y hol .
in gen slo may be sin - val or mul - val .
in thi sec we ass tha slo are sin - val .
thi ass wil be rel in sec 123
a slo - cha is a seq of zer or mor slo sep by per .
a slo - cha rep a bin rel : the slo - cha a : whe a is a slo and is a slo - cha den the rel fx; z j ax; y ^ y; zg .
a slo in a fra may hav ass fac .
a fac is a ter rel : if the fac val of fac f on slo a in fra x is y , the the rel f x; a; y hol .
a sta fac is val - typ , whi spe a val res on the val of a slo .
the val - typ of a slo wil be cal its typ .
the two mai typ of fra are cla fra , rep - ing set of ent , and ins fra .
the cla fra are org in an is - a hie , whe one cla may be a sub of ano ( its sup ) .
the slo of a cla fra may be own slo , whi des a pro of the cla its , and tem slo , whi are slo inh by all ins and sub of the cla .
the fac ass - cia wit tem slo are tem fac , and are als
inh .
an ins or sub may ove the val of inh slo or fac .
pro inf is inc int a fra kb by ann cla fra wit loc pro .
a cla fra tha has bee so ann is cal a p - cla .
a p - cla has a set of tem slo , eac wit a val - typ fac .
dep on the typ , a slo is eit sim or com .
the typ of a com slo is ano p - cla .
the typ of a sim slo is an exp enu lis of pos val for the slo .
for exa , the phd - stu p - cla may hav a sim slo yea , who typ is f12 , 123 , 123 , 123 , ten , and a com slo adv who typ is the p - cla pro .
a p - cla may als hav oth slo tha do not par in the pro mod , who typ is nei of the abo .
for exa , phd - stu may als hav the slo nam , whi doe not hav an ass pro mod .
thi fea all exi kbs to be ann wit pro inf , wit req a com red of the ont .
a sim slo is ver muc lik a nod in a bay net .
it has a ran of val , a set of par , and a cpt .
a p - cla spe a pro mod for its sim slo usi two spe - pur fac : par and dis .
fac are a nat pla to put a pro mod , sin suc a mod can be vie as a gen of a val res - tio : not onl doe it spe a ran of pos val , but als a dis ove tha ran .
the par fac lis the slo on whi the val of thi slo dep .
eac par is spe by a slo - cha ref to som oth sim slo .
mor pre , let x be a p - cla and a a sim slo .
the par fac of a is a lis of slo cha 123 : : : ; n , suc tha x : i ref to a sim slo .
for exa , in the phd - stu p - cla , yea may hav the par ( age ) , whi the par of yea - to - gra may be yea adv . pic .
the dis fac spe the con pro dis - tri ove val of the slo giv val of its par .
the con dis is spe usi a con pro tab ( cpt ) as in bay net .
for eac com of val of its par , the cpt pro a pro dis ove val of the slo .
for the pur - pos of thi pap , we ass tha the cpt are rep as ful spe fun of par val .
mor com rep suc as noi - or can eas be acc wit our fra .
the pro mod of a com slo is sim de - scr by its p - cla y .
how , eac com slo a als has an add fac cal imp , who val is a lis of slo in y .
thi lis , cal the imp lis of a , is the lis of slo of y tha are vis wit x .
we req tha if a : b : ( for a pos emp slo cha ) is a slo cha app wit x , the b mus be in the imp lis of a .
onc a pro mod has bee spe for a p - cla , the p - cla can be use jus lik any oth cla fra .
one can cre ins of the cla , whi wil inh all of its tem slo and fac .
in par , the pro dis ove val of slo of the ins wil be as de - scr in the p - cla .
sim , the inh mec of a fra sys can be use to mak one p - cla a sub of ano .
a sub can ext the den of the sup - cla as wel as ove par of it .
in par , a sub
can red the pro mod of one or mor of the slo .
for exa , we can den ass - pro be a sub of pro , and ove the dis ove sal to one tha is app to the mor spe cla .
ano im - por asp of sub is tha an ins of a sub is als an ins of the sup , so tha it can ll a slo who typ is the sup .
for exa , in a par ins of phd - stu , the val of the adv slo may be spe to be an ins who cla is ass - pro .
val can be ass to an own slo of an ins fra eit dir or by ass to a tem slo at the cla lev .
bot typ of ass are int in the sam way .
an ass to a sim slo is int as obs the val of the slo , the con the pro dis for the ins .
thi con pro may res in a cha in our bel for oth rel slo .
con , for exa , a sub gra - phd - stu of phd - stu whi ass 123 to the slo yea - to - gra .
the the con pro wil res in a new pro mod for any ins i of thi sub in par , our bel abo i : yea and i : adv . pic wil bot cha , as wil our bel abo oth rel slo .
an ass to a com slo spe tha the val of tha slo is ano par ins .
thu , com net - wor of int - rel fra can be cre , suc as stu who sha an adv , and stu of dif adv in the sam dep .
suc an ass at the cla lev res in all of the cla ins hav the sam fra as the val for tha slo .
one of the fea of a pro fra sys is tha rel fra can inu eac oth .
we hav alr see one mec for suc int : sin a par of a slo is a slo - cha , the val of a sim slo may be inu pro by the val of a slo in ano fra .
thi mec , how , onl all a fra to be inu by rel fra , but not to inu the in tur .
we res thi dif by uti a bas fea of mos frs slo .
let x and y be two cla fra , a a slo of x wit typ y , and b a slo of y wit typ x .
the a and b are inv slo if , for eve ins i of x , if i : a = j the j : b = i , and vic ver .
thu , we vie an ass of a spe ins fra j to a slo i : a as enc the cor ass of i to j : b .
for tha rea , we do not all ass of val to slo suc as a at the cla lev oth , for any giv fra j of cla y , the val of j : b wou be the set con of eve fra of cla x , a mod whi is too unw to dea wit .
inv slo all eit of the fra to ref to slo in the oth , the all pro dep in bot dir .
all suc int dep wit res cou lea to hor com int be - twe two fra .
in par , it cou lea to a cyc cha of inu tha has no coh pro mod .
the , one of the two inv slo x : ais des - nat to be the pri dir whi the oth : bis sec .
sim , x is cal the pri fra , whi y is the sec fra .
a pri inv slo suc as a in x has a par fac jus lik a sim slo , i . e . , it is a lis
of slo - cha in x .
int , the par of a are the onl slo of x tha are exp to y via b .
mor pre , the par lis of a in x mus be ide to the imp lis of b in y .
thu , the ow of inu bet the two fra is nea reg : the par of a in x can inu any of the slo in y ; som of tho can , in tur , inu oth slo in x tha are dow fro a .
for exa , sup we dec tha the the slo of phd - stu sho be an inv slo , wit its inv bei the aut slo of phd - the .
the slo the is des to be pri , and is giv the par eld in phd - stu .
the eld is vis wit the phd - the cla , so tha for exa , jar - con may dep on aut . eld .
oth slo of phd - stu may dep on slo of the thu , for exa , job - pro may dep on the . qua , whi wou the hav to be on the imp lis of the .
inv slo ser a dua pur in our lan .
as we sai , the all bid dep bet two ins .
but the als all our pro mod to be mul .
if , as abo , x : a and y : b are inv , and we den an ins fro cla x , it imm imp the exi of a cor ins fro cla y .
al - ter , we cou sta mod wit an obj of cla y , and gua tha the cor x wil exi .
thu , we can den a mod cen aro wha ent are of int to us in our con .
in thi sec we pre a sem for pro fra kno bas .
for a giv kb wit a set of cla and ins fra , our sem den a pro dis - tio ove the slo val of the ins fra ( and of som oth rel ins fra ) .
in ord to den a coh pro dis , our fra kb mus sat sev con .
the bas the of the con is fam fro the rea of bay net : our dep mod mus be acy .
how , sin the may be com cha of dep bot wit a fra and bet fra , and on bot the cla and ins lev , we nee to dev som too to rea abo dep .
den 123 : a dep is a pai x : a y : b , whe x and y are fra ( not nec dis ) , a is a slo of x and b is a slo of y .
we say tha x : a y : b hol if a is a sim slo of x , y = x and b : is a par of a; a is a com slo of x , b is in the imp lis of a , and y is eit an ins fra ass to x : a or the p - cla fra whi is the val typ of x : a .
int , a dep x : a y : b ass tha for eve ins fra i con wit x the exi an ins fra j con wit y suc tha i : a dep ( if x is its an ins fra i , the onl i is con wit x; if x is a cla , the any ins of tha cla is con wit x . ) not how , tha our den of dep onl con the rst slo in a cha on whi a slo dep thu , it mak onl a rst - lev par of dep .
it is a con ove of the tru dep mod , sin if x : a y : b , it is not nec the cas tha x : a dep on eve slo - cha
whi it is fai str to ren our not of dep , we hav fou our den to be ade for mos pur .
den 123 : a dep cha is a lis x12 : a12 x12 : a12 suc tha , for eac i , xi : ai xi+ : ai+
a dep cyc is a dep cha tha beg and end wit the sam slo .
dep cyc ree pot pro wit our ( alt , as ind by our dis abo , som cor mod may app to be pro sim - ply bec of our ove for pro dep - cie . ) a dep cyc con i : a , whe i is an ins fra , cor to a pos cha of dep - den thr whi i : a dep on its .
suc a cyc dep , if it exi , pre us fro den a coh pro mod .
a dep cyc con x : a for som cla x mea tha for eve ins i12 of x the is som ins i12 of x suc tha i12 : a dep on i12 : a .
in som cas , i12 and i12 are nec the sam ins suc cas are cal tru cyc .
in oth , how , the are dis ins of the cla x .
the cas can als be pro , as the may rep an inn dep cha beg wit i12 : a : i12 : a dep on i12 : a whi de - pen on som i12 : a , etc .
suc mod als do not typ hav wel - den pro sem .
we con fro thi dis tha we wan to dis all dep cyc . 123 som typ of dep cyc are eas to pre usi pur loc con .
spe - ica , we can bui , for eac cla x , a dep gra for x .
thi gra con all the slo of x , wit an edg fro b to a if the dep x : a x : b hol .
cle , if we wan to avo dep cyc , thi gra sho be acy .
ind , our car in des the dep mod for inv slo imp tha if we mak all cla dep gra acy , we avo any tru cyc dep cha at the cla lev .
for , if we den a cla - lev dep - den cha to be one in whi all the xis are p - cla , we obt the fol the : the 123 : if we hav a kno bas in whi all cla dep gra are acy , the the are no tru cyc cla - lev dep cha .
how , as we dis , eve dep cha tha are not tru cyc can res in inc mod .
in add , we hav not eli ins - lev dep cha tha are tru cyc .
unf , the gen pro is not so eas to pre usi pur loc con .
how , we can det whe or not the kb con a dep cyc by bui a mor glo dir gra g , cal the dep gra of the kb .
the nod of g are all x : a whe x is a p - cla or nam ind and a is a slo of x .
the is an edg fro y : b to x : a if the dep x : a y : b hol .
cle , the kb con a dep cyc iff g is cyc .
for a kb tha con no dep cyc , our goa now is to den a pro dis ove ins
123 tha we are not dis inn ref cha ( cha of rel ins ) , unl the imp inn dep
to fra , i . e . , ass of val to the slo of the fra .
sev iss com to mak suc a den dif .
the mos obv ide is to fol the app tak in the sem of bay net : we det a set of ran var , and den a dis ove the joi val spa .
unf , our fra is too ric to mak thi app app .
as we men , the set of ins fra tha we can pot ref to may be inn .
whi one mig be abl to cir thi par - ula pro , a mor ser one man whe we enr our lan wit str unc in sec 123 and 123
the , the set of ins fra can als var pro - cal , in a way tha bot dep on and inu the val of oth ran var in the mod .
we the den our sem via a dat gen pro , tha ran sam val for the var fra in the mod .
the ran sam pro imp de - nes a dis ove the dif pos val ass - men : the pro of a val ass is the pro wit whi it is gen by the pro .
not tha , alt a ran sam pro can als be use as a sto alg for app inf , we are not pro thi app our sam pro is pur a tho ex - per for den the dis .
in sec 123 , we sho how a mor sta pro of exa inf can be use to eff ans que rel to thi dis .
the sam pro bui val ass to slo of fra inc , as the dif com are re - qui .
by all suc par ass , we byp the pro of goi off on inn sam cha .
the ass of nit dep cha gua tha the sam cha req to sam the val of any sim slo wil alw ter .
den 123 : a par val for an ins fra is an ass of val ( of the app typ ) to som sub of its sim slo , an ass of ins fra ( fro the app p - cla ) to som sub of its com slo , and a par val for eac of the ass ins .
one nal sub ari in the sam con .
som ins fra may hav spe val pre - ass to som of the the slo .
suc an ass can be don via an exp sta for a nam ins fra , or via a pro of inh fro a tem slo of a cla to whi the ins bel .
as we exp in sec 123 , the se - man of suc ass is to con the dis .
to obt the rig sem , we mak the obv mod - cat to our dat gen pro .
if , dur the sam pro , a val is gen for a slo whi is inc wit the obs val , we sim dis the ent par val gen up to tha poi .
it is eas to see ( 123 ) tha the rel pro wit whi a par val is gen - ate in thi dat gen pro is exa the sam as its pro con on the obs slo val .
as we dis , our sam pro bui up a par - tia val pie by pie , as the pie are nee .
our mai pro , sho in fig 123 , is sam ( i , a ) , whi sam the val of a sin sim slo a of a sin ins fra i .
in ord to sam a fro the cor dis , it mus bac cha and sam oth slo on whi the
if a has a val in the ret for par of a if is a slo b in i the els / * is of the for : c * / let j : = com ( i , )
cho a val v for a acc to p a j paa ext wit i : a = v if a has a pre - ass val v the if v = v the fai
if is emp the / * is of the for b : * / if i : b is ass a val j in the let k : = j els if i : b is pre - ass a val j the ext wit i : b = j let k : = j let y be val - typ ( b ) cre a new ins k of p - cla y ext wit i : b = k if b has an inv b in k the ext wit k : b = i ret com ( k , )
fig 123 : dat gen sam mod
if the dep gra is acy ,
val of a dep .
com ( i , ) det the val of the com slo - cha i : , if nec cre new ins fra to rep the val of com slo .
whe the pro ret , the par val ( a glo var in the pro ) con a val for i : a .
lem 123 : sam ( i , a ) , exe fro a par val den a pro dis ove ext of wit a val as - sig to i : a .
fur , the dis not dep on the ord in whi the par of a are exa .
pro : the bas ste in the pro are as fol .
to pro the rst par of the the , it suf to sho tha the sam - pli alg ter .
thi pro pro usi a sim - ple ind arg ove the len of dep cha .
to pro tha the dis is ind of the ord , we obs tha a sim slo is alw gen fro the sam con dis , reg of whe it is sam , and tha the fai con are als app uni .
we can now den a sam pro tha use sam ( i , a ) to sam val for the slo of all nam ins in the kb .
if any cal to sam fai , the ent sam pro nee to be res .
onc a val has bee ass to all sim slo of nam ins , we hav acc for all evi in the mod , and the fur sam of oth slo can pos fai .
the the dis we hav obt ove the slo we hav sam is the nal one .
the 123 : if the dep gra is acy the sam - ple den a pro dis ove par val whi hav val ass to all sim slo i : a for all nam ins i .
123 mul slo and num unc to thi poi , we hav ass tha eve slo is sin - val .
how , slo tha tak on mul val are a fun con in fra sys .
the ai - pro p - cla may hav a mul - val pap slo of typ ai - pap .
to sim our dis , we req mul - val slo to be com , and all val of the slo mus be of the sam p - cla , as spe in the slo val - typ .
to all oth slo in a fra x to dep on the pro - ert of a mul - val slo a , we mus pre a way for a
slo to dep on a set of slo .
as the ele in the set can be ref to ind , we mus ref ins to the pro of the set .
den 123 : a qua slo for a mul - val slo a has the for a : : e , a : : e , na : : e or na : : e , whe is a slo cha of a and e is an ele of the val typ of a : .
the val - typ of a qua slo is the set ftr fal .
giv a set of val for a , the val of a qua slo on a : b has pre the mea tha one wou exp for exa , if for at lea 123 val i of the pap slo i : imp has the val hig , the the val of 123 . imp hig is tru .
not tha the cpt of a qua slo is wel - den for any num of val of its mul - val slo .
on the oth han , no oth slo can dep dir on the mul - val slo , the avo the pro of den gen cpt wit a var num of par .
a qua slo , on the oth han , is tre in the sam way as a sim slo , so it may be use as a par of ano slo .
thu , for exa , the wil - get - ten slo of the ass - pro cla may dep on the abo qua slo .
so far , we hav not spe the num of val tha a giv mul - val slo can tak .
in man cas , e . g . , the num of pap , thi num is not xed .
the , we wou lik to be abl to mod sit in whi dif num of pap are pos , and to rep our bel in the var pos .
in oth wor , we wou lik to all str unc ove the set of ent in the wor and the rel bet the .
unc ove the num of val of a mul - val slo is a typ of str unc cal num unc .
we can ext our lan to rep num unc - tai by ass wit eac mul slo a of x a new num slo num , whi ran ove som set of nat num f12 123 : : : ; ng ( we ass tha the num of val of eve slo is bou ) .
the slo num is tre jus lik any oth sim slo it has par and dis fac tha des its pro mod .
thu , the num of val of a in x can dep on val of oth slo of x and of rel fra , and it can als be the par of ano slo .
for exa , ai - pro wil hav a num slo , who val ran fro 123 to 123 num may dep on pro and in tur inu tir .
as wit the cas of sin - val slo , a spe val i may be ass for a mul - val slo a of bot a p - cla and a nam ind .
we int suc ass as ass tha one of as val is i .
it doe not pre a fro hav oth val in fac , mul val may be ass for the slo .
suc ass do not eli our num unc for thi slo , but any cas whe the slo has few tha the num of ass lle is eli thu , we mus con num to be at lea the ass num .
to ass tha a has onl the val men , we wou nee to exp ass a val for num .
it is int to exa the int bet mul - val slo and inv .
ass tha the adv slo has an inv adv wit the phd - stu fra .
if we now hav a stu ins fra i , the we aut ass at lea one val val ifo the adv slo in the
ins fra i : adv .
thu , eve if we hav no oth inf wha abo thi ins fra , it wil not be a gen mem of the pro cla .
the ver fac tha the pro is som adv mod its dis by con it on the fac tha num 123
not tha the inv slo may als be mul - val .
man - man rel giv ris to pot inn ref cha .
for exa , a pap may hav sev aut , who hav all wri sev pap , and so on .
how , due to the res on the ow of inu bet pri and sec inv , an inn ref cha of thi sor can lea to an inn dep cha .
num unc can be inc int our sem qui eas .
we nee to add num and qua slo int the dep gra .
num slo are tre jus lik sim slo : the is an edg int x : num for eac of the par of num in x .
if x : q is a qua slo ove x : a , the is an edg fro x : a to x : q .
fin , we mus mak the val of x : a dep bot on x : num and the pro it imp fro eac of its lle .
if x : a imp b , the we hav x : a y : b , whe y is the typ of a , and x : a i : b for eve ass val i of x : a .
the sam pro can eas be mod to acc for mul - val slo .
whe a mul - val slo a nee to be sam for the rst tim , we sam rst a val n for num .
let m be the num of ass val for a .
if n m , the sam fai .
oth , n ( cid : 123 ) m new ins of the typ of a are cre , and the set of val of a is set to be the m ass lle and the n ( cid : 123 ) m new ins .
the 123 con to hol .
123 ref unc
as we sai , str unc all us to rep dis - tri ove mod wit dif str .
num un - cer all us to var the set of ins in our mod .
in thi sec , we des ref unc , whi al - low us to var the rel bet the ins .
for exa , we may wan the con slo of the ai - pap cla to be aaa wit pro 123 , and ano gen ai con wit pro 123 not tha aaa is not the val of a sim slo , but an ins fra its .
we ext our lan to acc ref unc by all som com slo to be ind .
eac ind slo a is ass wit a ref slo ref a , a sim slo who val dic the val of the ind slo .
den 123 : if a is an ind slo of typ y in p - cla x , the ref a is a sim slo in x who val typ is an enu set r , eac of who val is eit : a nam ind of typ y , a slo - cha of x who typ is y , or the cla y its .
in any ins i of x , the val of a is den in ter of the val of ref a : if the val of ref a is a nam ind j , i : a = j; if the val of ref a is a slo - cha , the i : a = i : ; if ref a is the p - cla y , the the val of a is a new ins of y .
a ref slo is tre jus lik any oth sim slo , so it has par and a cpt , and can inu oth sim slo .
a val can be ass to a ref slo fro
wit its val - typ , and the val of the ind slo wil be det by it .
an ind slo is tre lik any oth sin - val com slo it has an imp lis , and oth slo can dep on the slo it imp .
for tec rea , we do not all dir ass to ind slo , nor do we all the to hav inv .
as wit num unc , ref unc can be inc qui eas int our sem .
we nee to add ref and ind slo to the dep gra .
a ref slo is tre lik any oth sim slo thu , its onl dep are on its par .
an ind slo a cle dep on ref a , so we hav a ref a .
sin a is a com slo , it als dep on the slo tha it imp .
how , bec of ref unc , we do not kno the fra fro whi it imp tho slo .
let b be som slo on the imp lis of a .
to be saf , we nee to acc for eve pos val of ref a .
thu , for eac r , if is a nam ind i , we hav x : a i : b; if is a slo cha c : , we hav x : a x : c; if is the cla y , we hav x : a y : b , den the fac a may imp b fro som ins of y .
the sam pro req a sma cha to ass - com to dea wit ind slo .
whe ass is cal wit an ind slo , we rst sam the val of the cor ref slo in the usu man , and the ass the val of the ind slo in the man det - min by the val of the ref slo .
wit thi cha , the 123 con to hol .
in the pre sec , we pre a rep lan - gua and sem for pro fra sys .
to com the sto , we now pre a sim inf al - gor for ans pro que in suc a sys - tem .
our alg han any ins - bas que , i . e . , que abo the val of slo of ins .
for sim , we res att to sim slo of nam ins , as oth que can eas be red to the .
the alg , cal con , is bas on kno - bas mod con ( 123 ) , the pro of tak a kb and der a bn b rep the sam pro mod .
sta bn inf can the be use to ans que .
nod in the bay net b hav the for i : : a whe i is an ins fra ( not nec nam ) , is a pos emp slo cha , and a is a sim slo .
the alg by bac cha alo dep cha , con the app nod in the bn if the do not alr exi .
mor spe , the alg mai an ope lis l of nod to be pro .
ini , l con onl the sim slo of nam ins .
in eac ite , the alg rem a nod fro l , and pro it .
whe a nod is rem fro l , it is pro in one of thr way : as a sim slo , as a slo cha , or as a qua slo .
sim slo i : a are pro as fol .
for eac par - ent i : , an edg is add fro i : to i : a by a cal to add ( i : a , i : ) ; if i : is not alr in b , thi rou - tin add i : to b and l .
( not tha the par lis of any sim non - qua slo is xed . ) whe all par hav bee add , the cpt is con fro the dis fac
a slo cha i : b : is pro as fol :
if b is ind the if b is ass a val j in i the k = j els k = xi : b , whe x is the typ of b in i set cpt of i : b : to cop the val of k : ess , if b is ass a nam ind j in i , the i : b = j .
oth , i : b = xi : b , an ins of x tha doe not app any els in the kb; rou , xi : b ser the rol of a sko fun .
eit way , the val of i : b is kno to be som oth fra k , so tha i : b : is equ to k : .
we mak k : a par of i : b : , and den the cpt to enf thi equ .
the int nod alo the slo cha are int to mon the ow of val thr com slo .
the are nee bec the ow bec com whe the cha con ind slo .
int var tha are spu can eas be eli in a sim pos - pro pha .
if b is ind , the the val of i : b cou be one of sev fra , dep on the val of the ref slo i : ref b .
for any val of i : ref b , let k den the fra whi is the val of i : b .
the val of i : b : is equ to the val of k : .
in oth wor , i : ref b sel the val of i : b : fro a set of pos .
the , the nod i : b : is a mul nod ( 123 ) ; it has as par the nod i : ref b and all nod k : b : , and it use the val of i : ref b to sel , as its val , the val of one of its for eac val of i : ref if is a nam ind j the k = j if is the slo cha the k = i : if is the cla y the k = y i : c set cpt for i : b : to sel the val of ki : b : it rem to dea wit the cas int by num unc .
sin a mul - val slo a can onl be use by qua slo , the are the onl slo whi we nee to con .
con a qua slo i : q ove a : .
the val of i : q is ful det by i : num and the val of in eac of the pos val of a .
let n be the max num of suc val , and sup tha a is ass m val j12 : : : ; jm in i .
in add to the , the can be up to n ( cid : 123 ) m oth ins tha are val for a; we bui a fra for eac of the , jm + 123 : : : ; jn .
the nod i : q dep on i : num and on the app sub of the var ji : ; i . e . , if num is k , the onl j12 : : : ; jk wil inu i : q .
the exa for of the dep wil dep on the for of the qua .
for exa , a qua - er slo wil be a det con of the app sub of its par .
pro ( i : q ) / * a qua ove a : * / let n be the max val of i : num let j 123 : : : ; j m be the ass val to i : a for i = m + 123 to n j i = xii : a , whe x is the typ of i : a
fig 123 : par of the con bn for pro .
gum ten cas .
mod for onl two of the fty pos pap are sho .
pap ( i ) is sho for pap ( gum . pap ) ( i ) , and con ( i ) is sho for con ( pap ( gum . pap . con ) ( i ) ) .
the bn con for
for i = 123 to n add ( i : q , j i : ) set the cpt for i : q to dep on j 123 : ; : : : ; j num : to ill the alg , fig 123 sho par a kb con the ten cas of one pro .
gum , an ins of ai - ass - pro .
the nod gum . wil - get - ten dep on gum .
123 ( pap . imp : hig ) .
the lat is a qua slo , so it has as par gum : num and the imp slo of eac of the 123 pos pap .
now , ass tha the cla pap has imp dep on con . pre .
thi dep is dup for eac of the 123 pos pa - per .
the slo con is ind , so tha for eac i ( usi the sho of the gur ) pap ( i ) . con . pre has the par pap ( i ) . ref ( con ) and the pre slo of the pos val of tha ref , whi are aaa and con ( i ) .
loo ove the ove str of the alg , we see tha the is a cor bet the str of the dep gra g and tha of the bn b .
we can de - ne a map fro nod of b to nod of g as fol : i : a : is i : a if i is a nam ind , and x : a oth - wis for x the p - cla of i .
int , the nod x : a in g is a rep for all the nod i : a whe i is a gen ins of x .
lem 123 : if the is an edg fro nod 123 to nod 123 in b , the the is an pat fro 123 to 123 in g .
in oth wor , g ser as a tem for the dep in b .
man edg in b may map to the sam pat in g , but any cyc or inn dep in b wil nec map to a cyc in g ( bec g is nit ) .
thi pro is the bas for the fol the .
if the dep gra is acy , con - str ter and the con bay net is acy .
thi con als pro us wit an alt spe - ica for the dis den by a pro fra kb .
int , the bn cor to the pri dis den by the kb .
in par , the cpt of a num slo can asc a pos pro to num = 123 , des the fac tha one or mor val hav bee ass for a in the
in ord for b to rep the dis den by our sem , we mus con it on all of our obs .
spe , we ass the val for any sim slo who val was ass in the kb , and low bou on the val of num cor to the num of val ass for a ( inc ind via inv ) .
the 123 : let s be the set of sim slo of nam ind , and e the evi on sim slo and num slo der fro the kb .
the prb j e is the sam as the dis ove s den by our sem .
we hav imp our app wit a sys tha con the fol fun : a gra net - bas edi / bro can be use to ann a fra kb wit the fac enc its pro mod .
the edi - tor / bro int wit the und frs usi okb , thu all its use wit man of the exi fra sys ( e . g . , ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) .
our inf com als con to the frs via okb it ext the rel inf abo fra , ins , and the pro mod , con the bn cor to the kb , and uti the bn to an - swe pro que .
the sys has bee int suc wit the ont fra sys ( 123 ) and was use for rep sim mod of veh mov pat in a mil set .
our exp wit the sys - tem sho tha eve ver sim mod wit thr or fou sim p - cla cou be use to gen fai com bns ( wit hun of nod ) inv sev int
123 dis and con
in thi pap , we hav des the rst int bet two of the mos dom thr of wor in kr .
our lan - gua pro a cle syn bet the pro rea com and sta fra rea cap - iti .
fro the per of fra sys , our sys all exi fra kbs to be ann wit pro mod , gre inc the abi of fra sys to ex - pre mea kno in rea - wor app .
we hav als pro an inf alg cap of ans - ing pro que abo ins , the pro a sig inc to the inf abi of suc sys .
fro the per of pro mod , our lan pro the too for the con of pro for ver lar com dom , sig sca up our abi to do unc rea .
our lan has giv us the exc cap of cre - ati hig exp pro mod wit str unc .
cle , we hav onl scr the sur of thi ide .
for exa , it is eas to add unc ove the typ of an obj , e . g . , to den a pro dis - tio wit whi a pro is an ass , ass , and ful pro .
it is als eas to com num and ref unc , all , for exa , the adv of a stu to be sel fro the set of fac mem in the cs dep .
the are two of man pos ext tha can now be con .
ano imp iss whi we hav par res is the inf pro for pro fra - bas mod - els .
we hav sho how we can red the pro to tha of
rea in a sta bn , but thi app doe not mak ful use of the str enc in our rep .
par , it fai to exp enc of fra wit oth fra and the reu of cla mod amo sev obj .
the ide are put to goo use in ( 123 , 123 ) , and it is an imp res top to app the in our ric fra - wor .
we bel tha by exp the fea in our inf as wel as in our rep , we wil be abl to eff rep and rea in lar unc dom .
ack thi wor was sup by onr con - tra n12 - 123 - c - 123 und dar hpk pro , by dar con dac - 123 - c - 123 und sub to inf ext and tra , inc . , and thr the gen of the pow fou and the slo fou -
