thi pap add the pro of tra and dia com sys wit mix of dis and con var .
thi pro is a dif one , par whe the sys dyn are non , not all asp of the sys are dir obs , and the sen are sub to noi .
in thi pap , we pro a new app to thi tas , bas on the fra of hyb dyn bay net ( dbn ) .
the mod con bot con var - abl rep the sta of the sys and dis var - abl rep dis cha suc as fai the can mod a var of fau , inc bur fau , mea err , and gra dri .
we pre a nov alg for tra in hyb dbn , tha dea wit the cha pos by thi dif pro .
we dem how the res alg can be use to det fau in a com sys .
the com and sop of the cur gen - tio of ind pro , and the gro nee for au - ton age tha con phy sys , mot the nee for rob onl mon and dia of com hyb sys ( e . g . , ( ise 123 ) and ( mci et al .
123 ) ) .
we wan to mon the sta of the sys , rel det abn beh , and dia the fai .
sev - era app hav bee use for dea wit thi pro - lem , but eac has its lim .
the tra mod - bas sch for dia and con suf fro com - put int and num con pro - lem .
the qua rea mec tha dom thi wor in the ai com mit som of the pro - lem how , the lac of pre in the rep , and the amb int by the rea fra can lea the to per poo whe app to com sys wit con dyn ( ham , con , & de kle ( eds . ) 123 ) .
in thi pap , we pro a dif app to thi pro - lem , whe we mod a com hyb sys as a dyn bay net ( dbn ) .
thi mod imp den a pro dis ove pro tra of the sys - tem sta ove tim .
in thi sen , it is sim to the ver suc kal lte ( kal 123 ) .
for sys wit lin dyn and gau noi , the kal lte pro - vid an exc mea for tra sys sta .
unf - nat , rea - lif sys are rif wit non , man of
cop c 123 , ame ass for art int - gen ( www . aaa . org ) .
all rig res .
whi are exp as dis fai mod tha can pro - duc dis jum in sys beh .
hyb dbn acc a muc gre ran of pro , inc non dyn and dis fai mod tha inu sys evo .
the can dir rep the noi ass - cia wit the sys evo and mea , as wel as the pro of fau and the eff .
we rst sho tha man int asp of dia mod can be rep in the dbn fra .
in par - tic , we sho tha the all a nat enc of the rep of hig - ord sys dyn use in the tem cau gra ( tcg ) fra of mos and bis ( 123 ) .
in fac , a tcg can be use to pro the ske for an app dbn mod .
we als sho tha man int typ of fai can be mod nat in the dbn , inc bur fau , par dri , and mea -
the are sev adv to the use of gen pro - bil mod , suc as dbn , for fau det and dia - nos .
a dbn is com mod of the sys .
usi thi mod , the sta of the sys , inc its fai mod , is tra by mai a pro dis ove pos - ble sys sta giv all of the mea so far .
thi bel sta dis is an exa rep of our bes pos bel giv all of the ava evi .
clu wit it the lik of dif typ of fai , as wel as a dis ove the rel sys par .
in pri , man of the iss tha hav cha tra - tio app to dia ran pos fai , han of mul sim fai , and rob to par dri can be add wit a pro
of cou , the inf tas tha is req for mai - tai thi bel sta is a dif one .
unl the cas of a sim kal lte , tra suc sys is gen in - tra sin the num of mod of the sys gro exp ove tim .
we pre a nov alg tha tam thi int usi a com of sev dif - fer tec .
we sho tha thi alg suc in tra a ver dif sce on a fai lar sys ( one inv ve tan ) .
we bel tha our app wil sca wel to sub mor com sys .
dia of hyb sys to gro our dis , we wil foc on the dia tas for a cla of pro typ of che man -
fig 123 : the two - tan sys .
f ind ow; p ind pre r ind res .
tur pro , whi inv the tra of mat ( mos uid ) int and bet tan .
suc dom are wel - rep usi bon gra for ( ros & kar 123 ) , whe the dyn beh of the sys is den by uid pre and uid ow - rat .
con , for exa , a sim two - tan mod , sho in fig 123 ( a ) .
the mod rep a sys wit two tan tha can hol uid , an inl pip int tan 123 , two out pip , and a con - nec pip bet the tan .
the sto tan are ca - pac ele and the con pip are res el - eme .
thi sys is a sec ord sys wit nat
the tem cau gra ( tcg ) fra of ( mos - man & bis 123 ) is a top rep tha cap loc dyn rel bet var , and pro - vid a mor exp rep of the rel bet sys par and the beh var .
the tcg for the two - tan exa is sho in fig 123 ( b ) .
her , the var are the pre and ow - rat var ass wit the tan and the pip in the sys .
cau edg in a tcg are lab wit com par val and tem inf der fro the cha of the rel com .
res and jun com in - tro alg rel amo the sys var , and the , den ins tem rel suc as a dir or inv pro bet the var ( de - not by ) .
on the oth han , ene sto ele , lik cap and ind ele , int int re - lat bet sys var ( lab wit a dt ) .
for exa , cap rel fro the ow - rat var to the pre var are lab wit a dt; thi imp a tem rel , i . e . , the ow - rat aff the der of the cor pre var .
man sys hav the pro tha the beh nea det in the abs of a fau .
the det tra of the sys is oft cal its nom tra .
in suc cas , fau are som den imp as any abr cha in a par tha cau a dev fro
the nom tra .
sin the tem cau gra de - nes a set of qua con on the sys it can be use to pre the eff of sud dis cha in par , e . g . , bur fau .
by con , tcg gen - all are not use ide par dri fai , whi are the res of gra cha in sys par tha ac - cum ove tim .
dyn bay net a dyn bay net ( dbn ) is a tem sto - tic mod for a dyn sys .
it ass tha the sys sta can be rep by a set of var , den z .
eac of the var zi can be rea - val or dis .
we use dt zt to den the dis var in the sta .
we par the con var int two sub - set : the sub y z are var tha are mea , i . e . , the val is kno to us; the rem sub x are
the sys is mod as evo in dis tim ste .
thu , eac sys var z has an ins z t for eac tim sli t .
a dbn is a com gra rep - tat for the two - tim - sli con pro dis - but p zt+ j zt .
it enc bot the tra mod and the obs mod .
mor for , a dbn is a dir acy gra , who nod are ran var - abl in two con tim sli : zt and zt+ .
the edg in the gra rep the dir dep of a tim t + var z t+ eac suc nod is ann wit a con pro dis ( cpd ) , tha den the loc pro mod p z t+ .
the dbn mod is a com rep - res for the two - tim - sli dis via the cha .
we not tha the tra pro for any var are det - min com by the val of the var in the cur and pre tim ste .
thi mar ass req us to mod exp any var , suc as fai , tha in - duc lon - ter cor on the sys sta .
we ret to thi iss bel .
rul : p zt+ j zt = qi p z t+
on its imm cau par t+
j par t+
j par t+
for the dia tas tha we foc on , we can res att to a ver nat sub of hyb dbn the con lin gau ( clg ) mod .
her , we we req tha dis nod can hav con par .
we als req tha the cpd for a con var be a con lin gau .
rou spe , in a lin gau dep , the nod is a lin fun of its par - ent wit gau noi , whe the par of the lin dep can dep on the dis par .
mor pre - cis , if a nod x has con par y; : : : ; yk and dis par u , we par its cpd usi par - ete au; : : : ; au; and u for eve ins u to the dis par u .
the p x j y; u is a gau dis -
i= au; and var
but wit a mea au; +pk
it is imp to not tha , wit dis var in the net , thi typ of dbn den sta lin gau - sia dyn .
hen , in thi cas , the dbn is sim a gra rep of the sta dyn use in a kal lte , alb one tha mak cer ind
fig 123 : the two - tan dbn .
ass exp .
in the pre of dis par , the mod rep a mix of lin mod , wit the mix - tur det by the dis var .
dbn for dia our goa is to rep a dia sys , of the typ de - scr abo , as a dbn .
it tur out tha we can use a tcg for a sys as a blu for the ske of the dbn .
we can thi of a tcg as a sch for a sys of equ des the con sys dyn .
we dis two typ of arc in a tcg : tem arc are ann wit a dt , whe non - tem arc are not .
for any var x wit no inc tem arc , the tcg exp an ins con on x as a fun of its pre - sor .
for a var x wit at lea one inc tem arc , the tcg exp a tem con .
we gen a dbn str fro a tcg as fol : for eac nod xi in the tem cau gra , we cre x t and x t+ to den the sta of the var at two con - uti tim poi .
( in pra , we wil mer nod tha are con by equ con in the tcg . ) let xj be a nod in the tcg whi is a dir pre of xi .
if the arc fro xj to xi is non - tem , we add an arc fro x t i and an arc fro t+ to x t .
if the arc is tem , .
thi pro suf we add an arc onl fro x t to gen the str for a dbn tha mod the nom beh the sys .
to x t+ j to x t+
we the wan to add var tha mod our obs and rep the fai mod of the sys .
our fra - wor acc for a wid var of fai mod .
in our pre , we foc on thr imp typ : bur fai , mea fai and par dri fai .
to acc the , we nee to mak two imp ad - dit to the tcg ind dbn .
sin any par tha
can cha mus be mod in the dbn , we add nod to mod the res var .
in our imp , the wer con and not res , sin we pre to use a mul mod .
we als nee to add nod cor to pre of bur fai and the pre of mea fai .
fig 123 sho a dbn cre by thi pro .
the nod ft and ft sim add inc ows and thi fun has bee sub by the cpd for p and p .
the nod la - bel wit m cor to our mea of the ow par in the sys and the dis nod lab wit e ind the pre of mea fai .
for exa - ple , we den the cpd of m to be a nor dis aro f wit sma var whe e is fal , but wit a muc lar var whe the e is tru .
the r var mod the con in the sys .
the hav dis par , d , tha ind the pre of fau .
unl the mea fau var , the fau var hav par - ent in the pre dbn tim sli .
thi is nec to mod per eve suc as dri .
eac con fau var tak on fou val : sta , fau , bui and lea .
whe the sys is sta , the cpd of the cor - ing r has low noi .
whe a fau occ , the is a sha inc in the var of the cor r .
the two dri fau pro a sma dri , den as a per of the par pre val .
we nee the tem con - nec bet the d nod to ree the fac tha dri per onc a bui sta in a pip it ten to con .
in thi sec , we pro an inf pro for fau dia and det in mod rep as dbn .
as we hav men , we can vie dbn as a str rep and ext of tra kal lte .
we the bui our alg sta fro the cla - cal kal lte alg .
typ ext to thi alg - rit mai mul can hyp abo the sta of the sys .
at eac tim ste the upd a set of can - dat hyp and pru out unl one bas upo evi - den .
if the cor hyp rem in the can set , the alg wil tra the sta of the sys cor .
the pro wit thi typ of app is tha it is ver dif to det whi hyp to kee for com - ple sys : the are too man pos new hyp at eac tim , and the inf nee to pru awa bad hyp oft is not man unt sev tim ste aft the hyp are gen .
we pre a nov ap - pro tha col sim hyp int a sin hy - pot , the pre a nov app smo alg - rit tha we use to imp our abi to eff red the num of hyp .
thi app all us to dea wit com fai mod and seq inv man fai .
but it doe not sca to com sys tha in - vol man pos fai in dif com .
we add thi pro by com our tec wit a dec met bas on the alg of boy and kol ( 123 ) tha all the tra of ver lar sys .
tra and smo our dyn bay net rep the com sta of the sys at eac tim ste it inc var for the var asp of the con sta of the sys suc as pre or con , as wel as dis var - abl rep pos fai .
thi com mod all us to red the pro of fau det and di - agn to the tas of tra ( or lte ) a sto dy - nam sys .
the tra pro is den as fol .
as the sys evo , we get obs y; y; : : : .
at tim t , our mos inf eva of the sta of the sys - tem is our pos dis p zt j y; : : : ; yt abo the cur sys sta giv all of our obs so far .
we cal thi pos dis our tim t bel sta , and den it usi t .
the pro of a dis fau var - abl in thi bel sta tak int con all of the evi up to the pre to det the pro tha thi fau has occ .
in pri , tra is a ver eas tas , whi can be
acc by the fol pro for : t+z yt+ j zt+ tzt zt+ j ztd whe is a nor con .
thi pro is kno as a for pas .
for tra giv the bes est of the lik of a fau giv the evi so far .
it can , how , dea wit cas whe a fau is mom , but who dir ef - fec are uno so tha its eff bec vis to our sen onl lat on .
the rea is tha , at the tim tha the evi ind the pre of a pre fai , the is no lon a var in the bel sta tha rep the occ of tha fai .
the is a var den thi eve at an ear tim sli , but the for pas onl mai bel abo var in the cur tim ste .
to exp dis fau of thi typ , we nee to als rea bac in tim , fro our cur evi to the tim sli whe the fau too pla .
thi pro is kno as smo .
giv evi y; : : : ; yt+ , we com p zt j y; : : : ; yt; : : : ; yt+ .
the smo pro in - vol a bac pas whe evi fro t + is tra - mit bac ove the int tim sli , upd eac of the .
we omi det for lac of spa .
one cas of eno pra imp is the cas of lin sys .
the sys are ful con , wit lin gau cpd .
in thi cas , zt+ is a lin fun of zt and yt+ is a lin fun of zt+ , bot wit som add gau noi .
in thi cas , the bel sta can be rep exa as a mul gau dis ove zt .
thi is the bas for an ele tra alg cal the kal lte ( kal 123 ) whi mai thi bel sta in clo for as the sys evo .
unf , oft we can app the kal lte di - rec to rea - lif pro , sin man rea - lif sys are not lin sys .
the con rel be - twe var are oft non and the fai mod
of the sys are oft dis , int dis cha in sys par .
whe the sys is non - ear , the bel sta is no lon a mul gau , and rar has a com clo for rep .
con our sim two - tan mod .
her , we hav a pro of two ran var : the ow f is the pro of the pre p and the con r .
a sta sol - tio to thi typ of pro is to app the non dyn wit lin dyn , and the use a sta lin - ear gau mod .
thu , we try to get the bes app - tio for the rst and sec mom , and ign the res .
the cla met of lin is cal the ext kal fil ( bar - sha & for 123 ) ; it app - mat the non fun usi its sec ord tay in our cas , the non fun is a pro , whi is fai sim , thu we can com its rst and sec ord mom in clo for .
a far mor pro typ of non is cau by dis sta cha tha inu the con sys dyn .
for exa , a fau mig dra cha the con mea or var of a con var suc as the con .
thi typ of sit is rep in our mod via the dep of the con var x on the dis fau var d .
thi typ of mod cre sub dif for a tra alg .
to und the dif , let d; : : : ; dt be som par ins of the dis var at tim ; : : : ; t .
giv thi ins , the dy - nam of the con var are , onc aga , lin gau .
hen , the tim t bel sta , con on d; : : : ; dt , is a mul gau ove xt .
the dif - cul is tha we hav one suc gau for eve sin in - sta d; : : : ; dt .
thu , in ord to do exa tra , we nee to mai a sep hyp for eve com - nat of the dis var at all tim .
the num of suc hyp gro exp wit the len of the seq , whi is cle una .
a cla tra alg whi dea wit thi pro - lem is des in ( bar - sha & for 123 ) .
the mai ide is to mai our bel sta as a sma set of hyp , eac of whi cor to a sin mul - tiv gau .
the alg , app to our set , is as fol .
it is con to int the ran var - abl h t , eac of who val cor to one hyp - esi .
the dis of h t cor to the lik of the hyp .
whe the alg doe the for pas , it con all the com of val of h t and dt+ .
the res is a mix wit k jdj com .
eac of the new hyp is con on the new mea yt+ , and usi bay con we adj bot the mix wei and the par of the mul gau .
the alg the pru the hy - pot tha hav low pro , and sel onl the mos lik one to be par of the tim t + bel sta .
i our set , we als wis to mai val for the per - sis dis sta var , sin the sta of the sys at tim t + dep on the val at tim t .
we the rep the bel sta usi a sim gra mod of the for dt h t ! xt .
for , we rep our tim
t bel sta t as a mix tht of k hyp , eac of whi is ass wit a sin mul gau txt j ht and a dis dis tdt j ht
the dec of thi alg is tha it sel som hy - pot exa , whi ent ign oth .
cas , the hyp tha are mai all cor to sce tha are all clo to nom beh , and are the qua qui sim .
by con , the pru hyp oft cor to a pri unl fau , tha can lea to ver dif beh .
we the pro a new app whe sim hyp are col .
lik the pru alg , we sta by per the for pro ste , den a set of pos hyp - ses h t; dt+ let ~ h t+ be ran var who val cor to thi lar set of k jdj hyp .
nex , the mea are int , and the res is a mix dis t+ ove h t; dt+ and xt+ .
our tas is to gen the t + hyp fro thi mix .
we den a new set of mix com h t+ , eac of whi agg sev of the val of ~ h t+ .
the alg - rit the den a col mat tha is ess a det cpd p h t+ j h t; dt+ .
thi col mat is use to den the bel sta t+ , as a wei ave of the mix com :
t+h t+ = x ~ h t+
p h t+ j ~ h t+ t+ ~ h t+
t+d j h t+ = x ~ h t+
p ~ h t+ j h t+ t+d j ~ h t+
fin , we den t+x j h t; dt+ to be the clo gau app ( i . e . , the gau tha has the sam mea and cov as the mix ) to
p ~ h t+ p ~ h t+ j h t+p xt+ j ~ h t+ .
the mai rem que is the cho of whi hy - pot to col .
we use a gre app , tha tak int con bot the lik of the dif hy - pot and the sim to eac oth .
we sor the dif - fer hyp by the lik . 123 the , sta fro the mos lik hyp , we nd the clo hyp to it , and mer the two .
not tha the mer hyp - sis wil hav hig pro , so wil rem at the top of the lis .
whe the are no hyp tha are clo eno , we mov to the nex mos lik hyp in our lis .
whe we hav lle our quo of hyp , we col - lap all the rem hyp int one , reg of how clo the are .
as our dis mea , we use the sum of the two rel ent ( kl - dis ) ( cov & tho 123 ) bet the gau ass wit the hyp .
we not tha we del do not use the wei in det the dis bet hyp oth , we wou inv col unl hyp int lik one , eve if the are qua ver dif .
123 red cpu tim in our imp , we rst rem all hyp wit ext low pro ( ( cid : 123 ) ) , and the use the mer app to col the res .
bot hyp col and pru are myo met - ods the onl use evi obs up to tim t .
as dis - cus abo , the eff of som fai hav a del , so a fai at tim t may not man its in evi up to tim t .
sin a pri fai pro are typ qui low , fai cou hav ver wea sup in our be - lie sta .
thu , by the tim the dat nec to dia the fai are ava , the fai tra may be los .
the obv sol to the pro is to pic the lik hyp - ses bas not onl on pas and pre evi but als on fut evi i . e . , we wan to use wei obt aft som amo of smo .
how , smo req tha we rst pro a bel sta for in tim , and thi is the ver pro we are try to sol .
we bre thi cyc by usi a sli dif met of col hyp .
ins of sor the hyp by lik we alw col the two mos sim gau unt our mix is sma eno .
thi may lea to a mor agg - siv col sin we do not hav a bou on the max kl - dis bet two gau tha we col .
we can aff to be mor agg her sin we wil not use the res of smo to upd our con var , but onl to gui our hyp red met .
it rem to sho how we do the bac pro pro req for smo .
the pri dif is the cor han of the con par of our bel sta app .
the rea is tha aft col a mix of gau , upd the dis of eac com bas onl on evi rel to the res of the col is a non - tri pro .
for , we are pri int - est in get a mor inf pos for the hyp var , sin our mai goa is sim to ide the mos lik hyp .
the con par wil typ tra cor if we ide the cor hyp .
the , we exe smo onl for the dis var .
the pro is now eas ass tha we use a loo - hea win of tim sli ( thu , the las obs we get to see is t + + ) .
the bac mes to tim ste t + is sim the pro of yt+ : : : ; yt+ giv h t+ .
thi mes den a pos dis ove h t+ , whi can be com usi sta met .
we now use our col mat to com the eff of thi new inf on dt+ and h t+l ( cid : 123 ) .
in par , the pro of all the com whi wer col int som ht+ are mul by the cha in the pro - ity of ht+ .
thi is als int app sin all the col com wer sim , we sho cha the pro by the sam fac .
the res is a mes to tim ste t + ( cid : 123 ) , whi is pro in the sam way .
whe the pro ter at tim ste t , we hav the pro p h t j y; : : : ; yt+ , whi we can the use to bet gui whi hyp to eli , as wel as our col alg .
we not , how , tha the res of smo sho be use onl for gui the app - tio .
in ord to avo dou - cou evi , it is ver imp to con our tra usi our uns hyp wei th t .
one of the und ass of the alg is tha it is fea to enu all the pos ins of the dis var dt .
unf , for non - tri sys - tem , thi ass is oft unr .
the num of pos ins of the dis var dt gro exp wit the num of dis var in the sys .
to dea wit thi pro , we tak an app int for dis sys in ( boy & kol 123 ) .
the cru ide is to mak use of the fac tha lar sys are typ com of sub , and tha , whi the sub are cor , the int bet the is oft not so str .
the , it mig be rea to ap - pro our bel abo the sys usi sep bel abo the sub , i . e . , usi a bel sta whe the are ind .
not tha thi app is ver dif fro one tha ign the int bet the sub - tem .
as we do the pro , the sta of one sub can inu the sta of ano but we the dec the cor res fro thi int whe we mai - tai our bel abo the cur sys sta .
mor pre , we par the sys var int n dis set , cor to the dif sub .
let di and xi be the dis and con var in sub - sys i , res .
as for the cas of a sin sys , we rep the bel sta for eac sub i as a mix , rep usi a hyp var hi .
we als ass - cia wit eac sub a set of obs var yi , whi are the one tha are mos rel to the sub .
i ove eac sub i .
sin sub i may be inu dir by som oth sub , we can per the inf com in iso ins sub i .
ins , we con the ex - ten sub whi inc sub i , and all the var fro oth sub whi inu it .
our goa is to get a bel sta t
giv our bel sta rep , it is pos to de - scr the dis ove the ext sub as a mix - tur of gau .
as in the sin sub cas , we can int evi whi cha our pro dis - tio ove dis var as wel as ove con var - abl .
not tha dif ext sub may ove - lap , and aft int dif mea int the sub we may hav a dif dis ove the sha var .
we syn the pro usi a mes - pas alg cal cal ( lau & spi 123 ) .
as in bac pro , we onl upd the dis var , not the con one .
as a res of thi pha , all the dis var are upd usi all the mea inf .
thi is imp , as out evi can be imp in det the lik - hoo of the dif hyp .
it is als pos to mod the smo alg to use the dec rep of the bel sta .
the col is don ind in eve sub usi the sam alg ( and giv a col mat for eve sub ) .
the bac mes are use to upd the hyp var of eac one of the sub .
the in - for can be pro bac wit the col mat .
the onl dif is tha aft thi pro ,
fig 123 : fiv tan sys and res
we nee to cal the dis var of the sub , jus lik in the for pas .
we tes our alg on a sys whi con ve wa - ter tan , sho in fig 123
the sys con six con - duc and ve pre , whi are all fre par , but onl thr mea , mak it a cha sys - tem to tra .
in add , the sys con the thr typ of fai des in sec : dri , bur and mea - men err , eac occ wit pro : .
thu , at eve tim ste eve con has 123 pos fai mod ( sta , fau , bui , lea ) and eac mea has 123 pos fai mod .
cou all the pos fai - ure at tim t + and the per fai fro tim t , the sys has pos fai mod at any poi in tim , eli any hop of usi inf wit som dec of the sys .
in our exp we dec the sys int ve sub , sin dec int les sub de - man too muc mem .
eac tan was con to be a sub ( see fig 123 ) .
we tra ve hyp per sub , wit a loo of two ste whe doi smo .
we tes our alg on a com se - at t = , r sta to exp a neg dri .
at t = , we int two sim mea
err in the mea of f and fo .
at t = , r bur , and the ret to a ste sta .
at t = r sta a neg dri .
at t = r bur and the ret to nor .
at t = r bur .
the gra in fig 123 sho the res of tra r ,
r and r .
ini , at t = the eff of the dri in r was neg .
the cor hyp had a pro - abi of : , but aft smo the pro wen up to : .
as a res our alg con thi a lik hyp , and kep it in the bel sta .
at t = the pro of a neg dri wen fro : to : af - ter smo .
at thi poi our alg cor det the neg dri , and mai a ver hig pro for thi eve unt t = .
at thi poi , bef smo , our alg con two hyp : a bur in r ( pro - abi ) or the per of the neg dri and a mea fai ( pro ) .
smo rai the pro of a bur ( the cor hyp ) to .
the act val of r wer tra wit hig acc .
the mea of f mad the tra of r a rel - ati sim pro .
thi are muc mor com for r .
not onl is the no dir mea of f , the is no mea at all in sub 123 ! the , tra r is a rea cha .
due to lac of spa we omi the act num , but in thi run our alg de - tec the dri as soo as it beg .
( in oth run the de - tec was som del by 123 ste . ) it is als in - ter to see the beh of r dur the bur .
our alg det the bur , but sin no evi is use in sub 123 it cou not tra the tru val of the bur cor .
we pla to add thi pro in fut wor by pro con inf bet the sub - tem as wel as dis inf .
for the mea fai at t = , our alg beh in alm the sam way for the two mea , so we rep on m onl .
bef smo , our alg con two hyp a bur in r ( pro : ) or a mea fau and a per neg dri in r ( pro : ) .
aft smo the pro of the cor hyp wen up to alm .
we fee tha the res dem the pow of our al - gor , and its abi to cor dia and tra eve a com sys wit a sma num of mea .
con and fut wor
in thi pap , we pre a new app for mon and dia of hyb sys .
we mod the sys as dbn , thu red the pro of dia to the pro - lem of tra .
it is not a sur tha tra hyb sys - tem is als a dif pro .
in thi pap we foc on a spe cla of hyb sys : one tha giv som par - tic ass to the dis var hav lin dy - nam ( or can be lin wit a sat pre ) .
fur , we foc on sys tha are com of sev - era wea int sub .
we bel tha man rea - lif phy sys bel to thi cla of sys .
we pre a nov tra alg for thi cla of sys .
fir , we col sim hyp ins of jus cho the mos lik one .
thi tec all us to use a bou win loo - ahe int the fut .
we use fut obs to ass us in det whi hy - pot are the lik can and sho be kep rel unc , and whi are les lik and can be col mor agg .
our nal con is int a
way to avo the exp blo , cau by man dis - cre var wit a tim sli .
we do thi by rea sep abo the dif sub , whi sti pro - gat cor bet the .
our ini exp wit thi app are ver en - cou .
we hav tes it on a ver lar sys ( one wit dif dis sta per tim sli ) , wit a par - tic dif sce .
our alg fou mos of the fau , sho tha it can be use to pro rel tra - ing and dia eve for ver har pro .
of cou , we pla to con fur exp in oth dom .
we are cur wor on ext the cal al - gor to all us to pro inf bet sub - sys not onl for the dis var but for con - ous var as wel .
we bel tha thi new fea wil sig imp our tra cap , esp on lon seq wit man eve .
we are als loo for way to ext the alg be - yon the fam of con lin sys ( or sys whi can be app as suc ) .
in par , we hop to be abl to han dis chi of con par and hig non - lin evi mod .
fin , we hop to app our alg on rea - lif ap - pli and not jus on syn dat .
we are exp pos app in the dia dom , suc as mon - ito the per of an eng , as wel as app in oth dom , suc as vis tra .
ack .
thi res was sup by an onr you inv awa gra num n12 - 123 - 123 - 123 and by aro und the mur pro , int app to int sys , gra num daa - 123 - 123 - 123 , and by the ter fou .
