est the res siz of com que tha inv sel on mul - tip att and the joi of sev rel is a dif but fun tas in dat que pro .
it ari in cos - bas que opt - tio , que pro , and app que ans .
in thi pap , we sho how pro gra mod can be eff use for thi tas as an acc and com app of the joi fre dis - tri of mul att acr mul rel .
pro re - lat mod ( prm ) are a rec dev tha ext gra sta mod suc as bay net to rel dom .
the rep the sta dep bet att wit a tab , and bet att acr for - key joi .
we pro an efc alg - rit for con a prm fro a dat , and sho how a prm can be use to com sel est for a bro cla of que .
one of the maj con of thi wor is a uni fra for the es - tim of que inv bot sel and for - key joi ope .
fur , our app is not lim to ans a sma set of pre - det que a sin mod can be use to eff est the siz of a wid col of pot que acr mul tab .
we pre res for our app on sev rea - wor dat .
for bot sin - tab mul - att que and a gen cla of sel - joi que , our app pro mor acc est tha sta app to sel est , usi com spa and tim .
acc est of the res siz of que are cru to sev - era que pro com of a dat man sys - tem ( dbm ) .
cos - bas que opt use int res siz est to cho the opt que exe pla .
que pro pro fee to a dbm use dur the que de - sig pha by pre res con and dis of que res .
pre sel est als all efc loa bal for par joi on mul sys .
sel est can als be use to app ans cou ( ag -
the res siz of a sel que ove mul att is de - ter by the joi fre dis of the val of the att .
the joi dis enc the fre of all
per to mak dig or har cop of all or par of thi wor for per or cla use is gra wit fee pro tha cop are not mad or dis for pro or com adv and tha cop bea thi not and the ful cit on the rst pag .
to cop oth , to rep , to pos on ser or to red to lis , req pri spe per and / or a fee .
acm sig 123 may 123 - 123 , san bar , cal , usa cop 123 acm 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 . . . $12 .
com of att val , so rep it exa bec inf as the num of att and val inc .
mos com sys app the joi dis by ado sev key ass the ass all fas com of sel est , but , as man hav not , the est can be ver ina .
the rst com ass is the att val ind ass , und whi the dis of ind att are ind of eac oth and the joi dis is the pro - uct of sin - att dis .
how , rea dat oft con - tai str cor bet att tha vio thi ass - tio , lea to ver ina app .
for exa a cen - sus dat mig con hig cor att suc as in - com and hom - own .
the att val ind ass - tio wou lea to an ove of the res siz of a que tha ask for low - inc hom - own .
a sec com ass is the joi uni ass - tio , whi sta tha a tup fro one rel is equ lik to joi wit any tup fro the sec rel .
aga , the are man sit in whi thi ass is vio .
for exa - ple , ass tha our cen dat has a sec tab for onl pur .
hig - inc ind typ mak mor onl pur tha ave .
the , a tup in the pur tab is mor lik to joi wit a tup of a hig - inc ind , the vio the joi uni ass .
if we con a que for pur by hig - inc ind , an est pro tha mak the joi uni ass is lik to sub und the que siz .
to rel the ass , we nee a mor ren app , tha tak int con the joi dis ove mul at - tri , rat tha the dis ove the att in iso - tio .
sev app to joi dis app , als ref to as dat red , hav bee pro rec see ( 123 ) for an exc sum of thi are .
mos of thi wor has fo - cus on the tas of est the sel of a sel ope the sel sel wit a sin tab .
one sim ap - pro for app the que siz is via ran sam .
her , a set of sam is gen , and the the que res siz is est by com the act que res siz rel to the sam dat .
how , the amo of dat req for acc est can be qui lar .
mor rec , sev app hav bee pro tha att to cap the joi dis ove att mor dir .
the ear of the is the mul - men his app of poo and ioa ( 123 , 123 ) .
the pro an ext exp of the tax of met for con mul his and stu the eff - tiv of dif tec .
the als pro an app bas on sin val dec , app onl in the two -
dim cas .
a new app is the use of wav to ap - pro the und joi dis ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
muc les wor has bee don on est the sel of joi .
com dbm com mak the uni joi as - sum .
one app tha has bee sug is bas on ran - dom sam : ran sam the two tab , and com the joi .
thi app is awe in sev way ( 123 ) , and som wor has bee dev to alt app tha gen sam in a mor tar way ( 123 ) .
an alt rec app is the wor of ach et al .
( 123 ) on joi syn , whi mai sta for a few dis joi .
to our kno , no wor has bee don on app tha sup sel est for que con bot sel and joi ope in rea - wor do -
in thi pap , we pro an alt app for the sel - tiv est pro , bas on tec fro the are of pro gra mod ( 123 , 123 ) .
as we wil sho , our ap - pro has sev imp adv .
fir , it pro a uni - for fra for sel sel est and for - key joi sel est , int a sys met for es - tim the siz of que inv bot ope .
sec , our app is not lim to ans a sma set of pre que a sin sta mod can be use to eff est - mat the siz of any ( sel for - key joi ) que , ove any set of tab and att in the dat .
pro gra mod are a lan for com rep - res com joi dis ove hig - dim spa .
the are bas on a gra not tha enc con ind bet att in the dis .
con ind ari whe two att are cor , but the in - ter is med via one or mor oth var .
for exa - ple , in a cen dat , edu is cor wit inc , and hom - own sta is cor wit inc .
hen , edu is cor wit hom - own sta , but onl ind via the in - com lev .
int of thi typ are ext com in rea dom .
pro gra mod exp the con in - dep tha exi in a dom , and the all us to spe joi dis ove hig dim spa com .
in thi pap , we pro a fra for usi pro gra mod to est sel of que in a rel dat .
as we sho , bay net ( bns ) ( 123 ) can be use to rep the int bet att in a sin tab , pro - vid hig - qua est of the joi dis ove the at - tri in tha tab .
pro rel mod ( prm ) ( 123 ) 123 ext bay net to the rel set .
as we sho , prm all us to rep ske in the joi pro bet tab , as wel as cor bet att of tup joi via a for - key .
the the all us to est sel of que inv bot sel and joi ove mul tab .
lik mos sel est alg , our alg con - sis of two pha .
the ofi pha , in whi the prm is con - str fro the dat .
thi pro is aut , bas sol on the dat and the spa all to the sta mod .
the sec , onl pha , is the sel est for a par que .
the sel est rec as inp a que and a prm , and out an est for the res siz of the que .
not tha the sam prm is use to est the siz of a que ove any sub of the att in the dat we are not req to hav pri inf abo the que wor .
the ter pro rel mod has two ver dis mea in two dif com : the pro mod com ( 123 ) and the dat com ( 123 , 123 ) .
we use the ter in its for sen .
thr thi pap , we mak two imp ass .
the rst is tha for key obe ref int .
thi ass abo the dat is req in the con of the prm .
the sec is tha all joi are equ joi bet a for key and a pri key .
thi ass is mad pur for eas of pre - tat .
whi que wit for - key joi sta to ben mos fro the pro mod tha we pro , our met are not lim to dea wit the que and we des how to ext our app to a bro cla of joi in sec 123
the rem of the pap is str as fol .
in sec 123 , we con the cas of sel est for sel ope ove a sin tab .
we den bay net , and sho how the can be use to app the joi dis ove the en - tir set of att in the tab .
in sec 123 , we mov to the mor com cas of que ove mul tab .
we pre the prm fra , whi gen bay net to the rel cas , and sho how we can use prm to acc bot sel and joi sel est in a sin fra .
in sec 123 , we pre an alg for aut con a prm fro a rel dat .
in sec 123 , we pro emp val of our app , and com it to som of the mos com ex - ist app .
we pre exp ove sev rea - wor dom , sho tha our app pro muc hig acc - rac ( in a giv amo of spa ) tha pre app , at a ver rea com cos , bot ofi and onl .
est for sin tab
we rst con est the res siz for sel que ove a sin rel .
for mos of thi sec , we res att to dom whe the num of val for eac att is rel sma ( up to abo 123 ) , and to que wit equ pre of the for att = val .
nei of the res is a fun - dam lim of our app at the end of thi sec , we dis how our app can be app to dom wit lar att val spa and to ran que .
dea wit the nor fre dis
be som tab we use . * to den the val ( non - key ) .
we den the joi fre dis - .
it is con to
, and the sel as the val of
thi tra all us to tre as a pro - abi dis .
we can als vie thi joi dis as gen by an ima pro , whe we sam a tup pli pro use to den mer usi it as a way of den
( not tha we are not sug tha the sam - be car out in pra .
we are
now , con a que . * , whi is a con of sel of the for #$ be the eve tha the equ in the siz of the res of the que
ove a set of att
it is cle tha
is the num of tup sat the pro , rel to ' .
to sim not , we wil oft sim use .
as the siz of the rel is kno , the joi pro dis con all the nec inf for que siz est .
hen , we foc att on the joi pro dis .
, of the eve $
unf , the num of ent in thi joi dis gro exp in the num of att , so tha exp
rep the joi dis is alm alw int .
sev app hav bee pro to cir thi iss by app the joi dis ( or pro of it ) usi a mor com str ( 123 , 123 ) .
we als pro the use of sta - tic mod tha app the ful joi dis .
how in ord to rep the dis in a com man , we exp the con ind tha oft hol in a joi dis ove rea - wor dat .
by dec the rep of a joi dis int fac tha cap the ind tha hol in the dom , we get a com rep for the dis .
123 con ind con a sim rel wit the fol thr val at - tri , eac wit its val dom sho in par : edu - tio ( hig - sch , col , adv - deg ) , inc ( low , med , hig ) , and hom - own ( fal , tru ) .
as sho , we wil use the rst let in eac of the nam to den the att , usi cap let for the att and low cas let for par to den a pro dis - val of the att .
we use but ove the pos val of att the pro of the eve
ass tha the joi dis of att val in a dat is as sho in fig .
usi thi joi dis , we can com - put the sel of any que ove .
as sho , we wil use
to den a sel que of the for
how , to exp rep the joi dis we nee to sto 123 num - ber , one for eac pos com of val for the att .
( in fac , we can get awa wit 123 num bec we kno tha the ent in the joi dis mus sum to 123 )
the siz
in man cas , how , our dat wil exh a cer str tha all us to ( app ) rep the dis usi a muc mor com for .
the int is tha som of the cor - tio bet att mig be ind one , med by oth att .
for exa , the eff of edu on own a hom mig be med by inc : a hig - sch dro who own a suc int sta is mor lik to own a hom tha a hig edu bea bum the inc is the dom fac , not the edu .
thi ass is for by the sta tha hom - own is con ind of edu giv
, we hav tha :
inc , i . e . , for eve com of val
thi ass hol for the dis of fig
the con ind ass all us to rep the joi dis mor com in a fac for .
rat , we wil rep : the mar dis - ; a con dis of in - tri ove edu ; and a con dis com giv edu of hom - own giv inc .
it is eas to ver tha thi rep con all of the inf in the ori - ina joi dis , if the con ind ass
whe the las equ fol fro the con ind .
in our exa , the joi dis can be rep usi the thr tab sho in fig .
it is eas to ver tha the do enc pre the sam joi dis as in fig
the sto req for the fac rep see to
, as bef .
in fac , if we acc for the fac
tha som of the par are red bec the num
mus add up to 123 , we get ! ! " #$ , as com to the &% we had in the ful joi .
whi the sav in thi cas may
not see par imp , the sav gro exp as the num of att inc , as lon as the num of dir dep rem bou .
not tha the con ind ass is ver dif - fer fro the sta att ind ass .
in thi cas , for exa , the one - dim his ( i . e . , mar dis ) for the thr att are sho in fig .
it is eas to see tha the joi dis tha we wou obt fro the att ind ass in thi cas is ver dif fro the tru und joi dis .
it is als imp to not tha our con ind ass is com wit the str cor tha exi bet hom - own and edu in thi dis .
thu , con ind is a muc wea and mor exi ass tha sta ( mar )
123 bay net
bay net ( 123 ) are com gra rep for hig - dim joi dis .
the exp the the un - der str of the dom the fac tha onl a few asp of the dom aff eac oth dir .
we den our pro - ity spa as the set of pos ass to the set of att .
bns can com rep a joi
by uti a str tha cap con ind amo att , the tak adv - tag of the loc of pro inu .
of a rel
a bay net '
con of two com .
the rst , is a dir acy gra who nod cor .
the edg in the gra den a di - to the att
rec dep of an att gra str enc a set of con ind as - sum : eac nod is con ind of its non - des giv its par .
on its par par
123 ( a ) sho a bay net con ( aut ) fro dat obt fro the 123 cur pop sur of u . s .
cen bur usi the dat ext sys ( 123 ) .
in thi cas , the tab con 123 att : age , wor - cla , edu - tio , mar - sta , ind , rac , sex , chi - sup , ear , chi , inc , and emp - typ .
the dom siz for the att are , res : 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123
we see , for exa , tha the chi att ( rep whe or not the are chi in the hou ) dep on oth at - tri onl via the att inc , age , and mar - sta .
thu , chi is con ind of all oth att giv inc , age , and mar - sta .
the sec com of a bn des the sta rel - it con of a con - shi bet eac nod and its par .
tio pro dis ( cpd ) eac att , whi spe the dis ove the val of giv any pos ass of val to its par .
thi cpd may be rep in a num of way .
it may be rep - sen as a tab , as in our ear exa .
alt , it can be rep as a tre , whe the int ver rep spl , and the lea con dis - on the val of som par of .
in thi rep , we nd the but ove the val of con dis ove giv a par cho of val -
for its par by fol the app pat in the tre dow to a lea : whe we enc a spl on som var 123 , we go dow the bra cor - ing to the val of $12 ; we the use the dis sto at tha
h m f c m f a m f
fig 123 : ( a ) the joi pro dis for a sim exa .
( b ) a rep of the joi dis tha exp con ind .
( c ) the sin - att pro his .
* ' ' 123 &%1
$ , 123 / +*& " +
% *+ %
fig 123 : ( a ) a bay net for the cen dom .
( b ) a tre - str cpd for the chi nod giv its par inc , age and mar - sta .
the cpd tre for the chi att in the net of fig .
123 ( a ) is sho in fig .
the pos val for thi at - tri are n / a , yes and no .
we can see , for exa , tha the k ! k , and dis ove chi giv inc j ; the dis -
n , and mar - sta but giv inc j , age m , as is the dis giv inc j n , and mar - sta
the con ind ass ass wit the , tog wit the cpd ass wit the nod , uni det a joi pro dis ove the att via the
tia lea to the sam ind pat dow the tre .
wid : the two ins -
, age m
, age m
( thi for is pre ana to the one we use in eq .
( 123 ) for our sim exa fro sec 123 . ) thu , fro our com mod , we can rec the joi dis we do not nee to rep it exp .
in our exa abo , the num of ent in the ful joi dis is app 123 bil , whi the num of par in our bn is 123 sig red !
123 bns for que est
our con ind ass cor to equ con on the joi dis in the dat tab .
in gen , of cou , the equ wil rar hol exa .
in fac , eve if the dat was gen by ind gen ran sam - ple fro a dis tha sat the con ind ( or eve unc ind ) ass , the dis der fro the fre in our dat wil not sat the as - sum .
how , in man cas we can app the dis - tri ver wel usi a bay net wit the app str .
we def a lon dis of thi iss to sec 123
a bay net is a com rep of a ful joi dis .
hen , it imp con the ans to any que abo the pro of any ass of val to a set of at - can eas use it to est sum tha our que ( her we abb a mul sel usi vec not ) .
the we can com -
tri .
thu , if we con a bn '
has the for
for any que
of cou , gen the ful joi dis
) can be com -
put ver exp , and is alm alw inf in the run set in whi que siz is typ est .
thu , we nee a mor efc alg for com alt the pro of com thi pro is np - har in the wor cas , bn inf is typ ver efc for net str enc in pra .
the sta bn inf al - gor ( 123 ) use spe - pur gra - bas alg tha ex - plo the gra str of the net .
the com of the alg dep on cer nat par rel to the con of the gra .
the par are typ sma for mos rea - wor mod , all ver eff inf for man net wit hun of nod or mor ( 123 , 123 ) .
at the sta of thi sec , we mad sev ass .
we now des how to rel the ass .
fir , we mad the ass tha our sel ope use onl equ pre .
it is str to ext the tec tha we hav jus de - scr for com the pro of an ass of val to a set of att to han ran que by com the pro - abi tha an ass of val to the att fal in tha ran .
we sim sum ove all pot val ass sat - fyi the ran con .
whi at rst gla , thi may sou qui exp , the bn inf alg des abo can be eas ada to com the val wit any inc in com com .
the sec imp ass tha we hav bee mak is tha the dom for the att are sma to mod siz .
we can lif thi res on our bns by usi tec tha hav bee dev for dis of dom val ( 123 , 123 ) .
in cas whe dom val are not ord , we can use fea hie if the are ava ( 123 ) or we may use any of a num of clu alg .
onc we hav bui a bn ove the dis or abs att val spa , we mus now mod our que est tec to pro est for que ove the bas lev val .
one met for doi thi is to sim com the sel est for an abs que , whi map the bas lev val to the app dis or abs val , and to the com an est for the bas lev que by ass a uni dis wit the res .
joi sel est
in the pre sec , we res att to que ove a sin tab .
in thi sec , we ext our app to dea wit que ove mul tab .
we res att to dat sat - isf ref int : let be a for - eig key in for eve tup .
thr thi pap , we res att to for .
we wil use the ter
tha ref to som tab wit pri key l
the mus be som tup
be a tab , and let
key joi joi of the for key as a sho for thi typ of joi .
123 joi two tab
con a med dat wit two tab : pat , con - ing tub ( tb ) pat , and con , con peo wit who a pat has had con , and who may or may not be in - fec wit the dis .
we mig be int in ans que inv a joi bet the two tab .
for exa , we mig be int in the fol que : pat . age = 123 and con - tac . pat = pat . pat - id and con . con = roo , i . e . , ndi all pat who age is ove 123 who hav had con wit a roo .
a sim app to thi pro wou pro as fol : by ref int , eac tup in con mus joi wit exa one tup in .
the , the siz of the joi rel ,
pri to the sel , is .
we the com the pro
of pat . age = 123 and the pro roo , and est the siz of the res que as
of con . con =
thi nai app is awe in two way .
fir , the att of the two dif tab are oft cor .
in gen , for - eig key are oft use to con tup in dif tab tha are sem rel , and hen the att of tup rel thr for key joi are oft cor .
for exa , the is a cle cor bet the age of the pat and the typ of con the hav in fac , eld pat wit roo are qui rar , and thi nai app wou ove the num .
sec , the pro tha two tup joi wit eac oth can als be cor wit var att .
for exa , mid - age pat typ hav mor con tha old pa - tie .
thu , whi the joi siz of the two tab , pri to the sel on pat age , is , the fra of the joi tu - ple whe the pat is ove 123 is low tha the ove fra of pat ove 123 wit the pat tab .
we add the iss by pro a mor acc mod of the joi dis of the two tab .
con two tab .
we den a joi pro and usi an ima sam pro tha ran - and ind sam a tup dom sam a tup .
the two tup may or may not joi wit eac oth .
we int a new joi ind var to mod thi eve
, is bin val it is tru whe
ove the val of the joi ind
thi sam pro ind a dis , and the val att .
now , con
( whe aga we abb a mul sel usi
any sel - key que
vec not ) .
it is eas to to see tha the siz of the res of
in oth wor , we can est the siz of any que of thi for usi the joi dis den usi our sam pro .
as we now sho , an ext of the tec in sec 123 all us to est thi joi dis usi a pro gra 123 pro rel mod
pro rel mod ( prm ) ( 123 ) ext bay net - wor to the rel set .
the all us to mod cor not onl bet att of the sam tup , but als bet att of rel tup in dif tab .
thi ext is ac - com by all , as a par of an att , an at - has a for key for .
we can als all dep on att in rel tha are rel to via a lon cha of joi to sim the not , we omi the des .
a prm for our tb dom is sho in fig .
her , for exa , we hav tha the typ of the con dep on the age and gen of the pat .
in ano rel
def 123 . : a pro rel mod ( prm )
for a rel dat is a pai pro mod for eac of the fol var :
for eac tab and eac att
, whi spe a loc
. * a var
fig 123 : ( a ) a prm for the tub dom .
( b ) a que - eva bn for tb dom and the key que
, a boo joi ind
doe not des a dis ove a sin tab in iso .
the pro dis of an att can dep on par tha are att in oth , for - key rel tup .
we the nee to den a joi pro dis ove a tup all tup on whi it dep .
to gua tha the set of tup we mus con is nit , we pla a str res on our prm mod .
def 123 . : let d be a par ord ove the tab in our dat .
we say tha a for key con wit d exi a par ord d we can now den the min ext to a que
is ( tab ) str if the is a par
a prm suc tha whe
is a for key int ) , the
tha con to
be a key que ove the tup var or may not ref to the sam tab ) .
def 123 . : let
fol two con :
be a key que .
we den the up - to be the min que tha sat the
e con all of the joi ope in 123
for eac
, if the is an att
, the the is a uni tup var
e con the joi
tup var g
fro the con , the
we can con the upw clo for any que and tha thi set in the tb dom is ove a is nit .
for exa , if our que is ove the thr tup tup var ove str .
not tha the is no dir dep of att of con on att of str , but the are dep - den on pat , and the int of the tup var tur nec the int of the tup var .
not tha , if we con a key que
is a tup var ove pat and
ih tha alr con a tup var -
h is ide to the clo of
abl wit the con g . pat =
. pat - id , the the clo ; i . e . , the pro wil not int - duc a new tup var if a cor one is alr pre .
we can ext the den of upw clo to sel - key que in the obv way : the sel cla are not rel to the not of upw clo .
upw clo a que doe not cha its res siz :
pro 123 . : let
be a que and let
clo .
the siz
fe be its upw
for eac for key
for eac var of the for spe a set of par par has the for int som tab and .
spe a cpd
, whe eac par is a for key of is an att of ;
to dep on
on an att is rel to
thi fra all a pro dep of an att .
thi typ of dep onl mak sen via som for key dep : our prm mod a dis whe are cho ind at ran the is no rea for the att to be cor unl the are som rel .
hen , we con the prm mod to .
mor pre , we req tha if be a par of den for cas whe tru in oth wor , in the cpd is at the roo of the tre , and onl the for in not tha the joi ind var als has par and a cpd .
con the prm for our tb dom .
the joi ind var whi ind whe the str is uni in the pop or has app in mor tha one pat .
the are ess thr cas : for a non - uni str and a pat tha was bor out
str has the par pat . usb and str . uni ,
we als req tha the cpd of
is a par of
tru is mea .
non - uni str and a pat bor in the u . s .
the pro is
the u . s . , the pro tha the wil joi is aro n abi is n
; for a , nea thr tim as lar for a uni str , the pro - n ! n ! o , reg of the pat pla of bir
we are muc mor lik to hav u . s . - bor pat joi to non - uni str tha for - bor one .
( the rea is tha for - bor pat oft imm to the u . s .
alr inf wit the dis suc pat typ hav a uni str ind to the reg .
u . s . - bor pat , on the oth han , are muc mor lik to con the dis by cat it fro som loc , and the wil app in inf clu . ) 123 sel est usi prm
we now wis to des the rel bet a prm mod and the dat .
in the cas of bns , the con was str - is an app to the fre dis - .
in the cas of prm , the iss is mor sub , as a prm
for : the bn ' cb
thi res fol imm fro ref int .
be a key que , and let be the tup var in
e be its upw clo
the dis obt by sam eac tup , the prm pen .
the for any que , pre the qua req all us to app for est the que sel .
we can com the prm es - tim usi the fol sim con :
h whi ext
fe ass tha
def 123 . : let , and let be an key que .
we den the que - eva bay
be a prm ove '
( to be a bn as fol :
it has a nod it als has a nod / for eve var ied in par is a par of is a par of
for eve cla , the nod
fe and att has the par spe - is a par of is a par of is the uni tup var
is as spe in
/ the cpd of for exa , fig .
123 ( b ) sho the que eva bn for the upw clo key que we can now use thi bay net to est the sel - ity of any que .
con a sel - key que ten the key que
clo ) , and com the pro of ( str - id ) .
in rea , we don nee to con a bn ove all the nod in the clo tri que and the anc in ' 123
prm con
for exa , to eva the pro of the . age = 123 , we wou use the bn in fig .
123 ( b ) ( as it upw
is its ( as abo ) , and #
we can est
; it is suf to inc onl the at -
ih whi ex -
, whe #
. age = 123 ,
the pre two sec sho how we can per que siz est onc we hav a prm tha cap the sig sta cor in the dat dis .
thi sec ad - dre the que of how to con suc a mod aut - cal fro the rel dat .
man of the ide in thi sec are sim ada of pre wor on the top : the wor on lea bay net fro dat ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) and the rec ext of thi lea fra to prm ( 123 ) .
in the con alg , our goa is to nd a prm
the inp to the con alg con of two par : a rel sch , tha spe the bas voc in the dom the set of tab , the att ass wit eac of the tab , and the pos for key joi bet tup and the dat its , whi spe the act tup con in eac tab .
tha bes rep the dep in the dat .
in ord to pro - vid a for spe for thi tas , we rst nee to den an app not of bes .
giv thi cri , the alg wil try to nd the mod tha opt it .
the are two par to our opt pro .
the par est pro for a giv dep str str sel pro nds the dep str wit the opt cho of par , ach the max sco , sub to our spa con on the mod .
123 sco cri
nds bes par set .
to pro a for den of mod qua , we mak use of bas con fro inf the ( 123 ) .
the qua of a
mod can be mea by the ext to whi it sum the dat .
in oth wor , if we had the mod , how man bit wou be req , usi an opt enc , to rep the dat .
the mor inf the mod , the few bit are req to enc
it is wel kno tha the opt sha enc of a dat set , giv the mod , use a num of bit whi is the neg log of the pro of the dat giv the mod .
in oth wor , we den the sco of a mod usi the fol
we can the for the mod con tas as tha of ndi the mod tha has max log - lik giv the dat .
we not tha thi cri is dif fro tho use in the sta - dar for of lea pro mod fro dat ( 123 ) .
in the lat cas , we typ cho a sco fun tha tra off t to dat wit mod com .
thi tra all us to avo tti the tra dat too clo , the red our abi - ity to pre uns dat .
in thi cas , our goa is ver dif : we do not wan to gen to new dat , but onl to sum the pat in the exi dat .
thi dif in foc is wha mot our cho of sco fun .
123 par est
we beg by con the par est tas for a giv dep str .
in oth wor , hav sel a de - tha det the set of par for eac tha par it .
the par est tas is a key sub in the str sel - tio ste : to eva the sco for a str , we mus rst par - ete it .
in oth wor , the hig sco mod is the str who bes par has the hig sco .
att , we mus ll in the num .
be its par in
a giv str in the dat .
mor pre , con som att
it is wel - kno tha the hig lik par for is the one tha pre mat the fre .
our mod con a par .
the max lik val for thi par is wit the pop of
thi par rep the con pro sim the rel fre of
and eac ass of val
for eac val of
the fre , or cou , use in thi exp are cal suf - cie sta in the sta lea lit .
thi com is ver sim in the cas whe the att and its par are in the sam tab .
for exa , to com the cpd ass wit the pat . gen att in our tb mod , we sim exe a cou and gro - by que on gen and hiv , whi giv us the cou for all pos val of the two at - tri .
the cou imm giv us the suf sta in bot the num and den of the ent cpd .
thi com req a lin sca of the dat .
the cas whe som of the par of an att app in a dif tab is onl sli mor com .
rec tha we res dep bet tup to tho tha uti for - key joi .
in oth wor , we can hav
for a for key thu , to com the cpd for sim nee to exe a for - key joi bet the use the sam typ of cou and gro - by que ove the res .
in whi is als the pri key of
tha dep on
for exa , in our tb mod , con . age has the par con - tac . con and con . pat . age .
to com the suf sta , we sim joi pat and con on pat . pat - id= . pat , and the gro and cou app .
we hav pre thi ana for the cas whe .
how , the dis onl on a sin for att cle ext to dep on mul att , pot in dif tab .
we sim do all of the nec for - key joi , gen a sin res tab ove and all of its par , and com the suf sta .
whi thi pro mig app exp at rst gla , it can be exe ver efc .
rec tha we are onl all de - pen via for - key joi .
put tha res tog wit our ref int ass , we kno tha eac tup .
thu , the num of tup wil joi wit pre a sin tup in the res joi is pre the siz of .
the sam obs - tio hol whe has par in mul tab .
ass tha we hav a goo ind str on key ( e . g . , a has ind ) , the cos of per the joi ope is the lin in the siz it rem to des the com of the cpd for a joi .
in thi cas , we mus com the pro - bil tha a ran tup .
the pro of the joi eve can dep on val of att in , e . g . , on the val of .
in our tb dom , the joi ind bet pa - tie and str dep on usb wit the pat tab and on uni wit the str tab .
to com the suf sta - , we nee to com the tot num
of cas whe the rst is sim
for , thi com is als eas .
the lat is
, whi can be com by joi the two tab and the doi a cou and gro - by que .
the cos of thi ope ( ass an app ind str ) is aga lin in the num of tup in 123 str sel
, and the the num wit
and a ran tup
our sec tas is the str sel tas : ndi the dep - den str tha ach the hig log - lik sco .
the pro her is ndi the bes dep str amo the sup man pos one . 123 thi is a com opt pro , and one whi is kno to be np - har ( 123 ) .
we the pro an alg tha nds a goo dep str usi sim heu tec des the fac tha the opt dep str is not gua to be pro , the alg nev per ver wel in pra .
123 . 123 sco rev
the log - lik fun can be ref in a way tha bot fac the mod sel tas and all its eff to be mor eas und .
we rst req the fol bas den -
con som joi dis
def 123 . : let the mut inf of
if we hav dep str is
ove the uni .
we can den
and be two set of att , and
if we hav mul tab , the
exp is sli mor com , bec not all dep - cie bet att in dif tab are leg .
att in a sin tab , the num of pos
the ter ins the exp is the log of the rel er -
and an app to it
ind , but mai the pro of eac one .
the ent exp is sim a wei ave of thi rel err ove the dis , whe the wei are the pro of the .
it is int cle tha mut inf is mea - .
if the are ind , the the mut inf is zer .
oth , the mut inf is alw pos .
the str the cor - lat , the lar the mut inf .
are cor in
con a par str
our ana in the pre sec spe the opt cho ( in ter of lik ) for pa - be the dis in the dat , as abo .
we can now ref - lat the log - lik sco in ter of mut inf :
to den thi set of par
is a con tha doe not dep on the cho of str - tur .
thu , the ove sco of a str dec as a sum , whe eac com is loc to an att and its par .
the loc sco dep dir on the mut inf bet a nod and its par in the str .
thu , our sco fun pre str whe an att is str cor wit its
sur the ext to whi .
we use . # "
par .
we wil use /
123 . 123 mod spa
an imp des dec is the spa of dep str - tur tha we all the alg to con .
sev con are imp on us by the sem of our mod .
bay net - wor and prm onl den a coh pro dis if the dep str is acy , i . e . , the is no dir pat fro an att bac to its .
thu , we res att to de - pen str tha are dir acy gra .
fur , we hav pla cer req on int - tab dep : a is a for key and pla the app rol in the cpd tre .
fin , we hav req tha the dep str be str alo tab , as
is als a par of
, and if the joi ind var
is onl all if
a sec set of con is imp by com con - era .
a dat sys typ pla a bou on the amo of spa use to spe the sta mod .
we the pla a bou on the siz of the mod con by our alg .
in our cas , the siz is typ the num of par use in the cpd for the dif att , plu som sma amo req to spe the str .
a sec com con is the siz of the int gro - by tab con to com the cpd in the str .
if the tab get ver lar , sto and man the can get exp .
the , we oft cho to pla a bou on the num of par per nod .
123 . 123 sea alg
giv a set of leg can str , and a sco fun tha all us to eva dif str , we nee onl pro a pro for ndi a hig - sco hyp in our spa .
the sim heu sea alg is gre hil - cli sea , usi ran ste to esc loc max .
we mai our cur - and ite imp it .
at eac it - ren can str
h , we che tha
era , we con a set of sim loc tra to tha str .
for eac res can suc it sat our con , and sel the bes one .
we res att - tio to sim tra suc as add or del an edg , and add or del a spl in a cpd tre .
thi pro con - ues unt non of the pos suc str .
at thi poi , the alg can tak som num of ran ste , and the res the hil - cli pro .
af - ter som num of ite of thi for , the alg hal and out the bes str dis dur the ent pro .
h hav a hig
fur , aft tak a ste in the sea , mos of the wor fro the pre ite can be reu .
to und thi ide , ass tha our cur str is
to do the sea , we eva a set of cha to , and sel the one tha giv us the lar imp .
say tha we hav cho - sen to upd the loc mod for ( eit its par set or its cpd tre ) .
the res str is pos loc cha to nen of the sco cor to ano att cha .
hen , the cha in sco res fro the cha to
now , we are con h .
the key ins is tha the com -
h of a giv str
sib suc str vio app is to sim cho the str the lar imp in sco , i . e . , tha max
one imp iss to con is how to cho amo the pos - .
the mos ob - .
how , thi app is ver sho , as it ign the cos of the tra in ter of inc the siz of the str .
we now pre two app tha add thi con .
the rst app is bas on an ana bet thi pro and the wei kna pro : we hav a set of ite , eac wit a val and a vol , and a kna wit a xed vol our goa is to sel the lar val set of ite tha ts in the kna - sac .
our goa her is ver sim : eve edg tha we int int the mod has som val in ter of sco and som cos in ter of spa .
a sta heu for the kna pro is to gre add the ite int the kna tha has , not the max val , but the lar val to vol rat .
in our cas , we can sim cho the edg for whi the lik imp nor by the add spa req :
is lar . 123 we ref to thi met of sco as sto siz nor -
the sec ide is to use a mod to the log - lik sco fun cal mdl ( min des len ) .
thi sco fun is mot by ide fro inf and cod the .
it sco a mod usi not sim the neg of the num - ber of bit req to enc the dat giv the mod , but als the num of bit req to enc the mod its .
thi sco has
we hav exp com the nai app wit the two ide out abo on the cen dat des in sec - tio 123 .
bot ssn and mdl sco ach hig log - lik tha the nai app for a xed amo of spa .
in fac , ssn and mdl per alm ide for the ent ran of all - cat spa , and no cle win was evi .
all thr app inv the com of
the pro a key ins for imp the efc of thi com - put .
as we saw , the sco dec int a sum , eac of whi is ass onl wit a nod and its par in the str - tur .
thu , if we mod the par set or the cpd of onl a sin att , the ter in the sco cor to oth att rem unc ( 123 ) .
thu , to com the sco cor to a sli mod str , we nee onl rec the loc sco for the one att who dep mod has cha .
thi heu has pro per gua for the kna - sac pro .
unf , in our pro the val and cos are not lin add , so the is no dir map bet the pro and the sam per bou do not app .
is the sam in
ber unc .
onl cha to
h , and we can sim reu tha num -
nee to be re - eva aft
exp res
in thi sec , we pre exp res for a var of rea - wor dat , inc : a cen dat ( 123 ) ; a sub of the dat of nan dat use in the 123 eur kdd cup ( 123 ) ; and a dat of tub pat in san fra ( 123 ) .
we beg by eva the acc of our met on sel que ove a sin rel .
we the con mor com , sel - joi que ove sev rel .
fin , we dis the run tim for con and est for our mod .
sel que .
we eva acc for sel ove a sin rel on a dat fro cen dat des abo ( ap - pro 123 tup ) .
we per two set of exp .
in the rst set of exp , we com our app to an exi sel est tec mul his - tog .
mul his are typ use to est - mat the joi ove som sma sub of att tha par in the que .
to all a fai com , we app our app ( and oth ) in the sam set .
we sel sub of two , thr , and fou att of the cen dat , and est the que siz for the set of all equ sel que ove the att .
we com the per of fou alg .
avi is a sim est tec tha ass att val ind - den : for eac att a one dim his is mai - tai .
in thi dom , the dom siz of eac att is sma , so it is fea to mai a buc for eac val .
thi tec - niq is rep of tec use in exi cos - bas que opt suc as sys - r .
mhi bui a mul - sio his ove the att , usi the v - opt ( v , a ) his - tog con of poo et al .
( 123 ) . 123 thi tec con - str buc tha min the var in are ( fre val ) wit eac buc .
poo et al .
fou thi met for bui his to be one of the mos suc in exp ove thi dom .
sam con a ran sam of the ta - ble and est the res siz of a que fro the sam .
prm use our met for que siz est .
unl sta oth , prm use tre cpd and the ssn sco met .
err of the que siz est :
we com the dif met usi the adj rel is the act siz of our is our est , the the adj rel err is .
for eac exp , we com the av - era adj err ove all pos ins for the sel val of the que thu eac exp is typ the ave ove sev tho que .
we eva the acc of the met as we var the spa all to eac met ( wit the exc of avi , whe
we wou lik to tha vis poo for mak thi cod ava - abl to us for our com .
123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
fig 123 : rel err vs .
sto siz for a que sui ove the cen dat .
( a ) two att que ( age and inc ) .
the rel err for avi is 123
( b ) thr att que ( age , hou and inc ) .
the rel err for avi is 123
( c ) fou att que ( age , edu , hou and inc ) .
the rel err for avi is 123 .
fig 123 : rel err vs .
sto siz for a que ove the cen dat , wit mod con ove 123 att .
( a ) thr att que ( wor , edu , and mar ) ( b ) fou att que ( inc , ind , age and emp ) .
( c ) a sca plo sho the err on ind que for a thr att que ( inc , ind , age ) for sam and prm ( usi 123 byt of sto ) .
in the sca plo , eac poi rep a que , whe the coo is the rel err usi sam and the coo is the rel err usi prm .
thu , poi abo the dia lin cor to que on whi sam out prm and poi bel the dia lin cor to que on whi prm per bet .
the mod siz is xed ) .
123 sho res on cen for thr que sui : ove two , thr , and fou att .
mhi and sam , and all met sig out avi .
not tha a bn wit tre cpd ove two att is sim a sli dif - fer rep of a mul - dim his .
thu , it is int tha our app sti dom mhi , eve in thi cas .
as the pow of the rep is ess equ her , the suc of prm in thi set is due to the dif sco fun for eva dif mod , and the ass
in the sec set of exp , we con a mor cha - ing set , whe a sin mod is bui for the ent tab , and the use to eva any sel que ove tha tab .
in thi cas , mhi is no lon app , so we com the acc of prm to sam , and als com to prm wit tab cpd .
we bui a prm ( bn ) for the ent set of att in the tab , and the que sub of thr and fou att .
sim , for sam , the sam inc all 123 att .
we tes the app on the cen dat wit 123 at - tri .
the res for two dif que sui are sho in fig .
123 ( a ) and ( b ) .
alt for ver sma sto siz , sam ach low err , prm wit tre cpd dom as the sto - age siz inc .
not als tha tre cpd con out - for tab cpd .
the rea is tha tab cpd for us to spl all bin in the cpd whe a par is add , was spa on mak dis tha mig not be nec .
123 ( c ) sho the
per on a thi que sui in mor det .
the sca plo com per of sam and prm for a xed sto siz ( 123 byt ) .
her we see tha prm out sam on the maj of the que .
( the spi in the plo at sam err 123 cor to the lar set of que res est to be
of siz n by sam . ) sel - joi que .
we eva the acc of est for sel - joi que on two rea - wor dat .
our nan dat ( fin ) has thr tab : acc ( 123 tup ) , tra ( 123 tup ) and dis ( 123 tup ) ; tra ref thr a for key to acc and acc ref to dis .
the tub - cul dat ( tb ) als has thr tab : pat ( 123 tup ) , con ( 123 tup ) and str ( 123 tup ) ; con ref thr a for key to pat and pat ref to str .
bot dat sat the ref int ass .
we com the fol tec .
sam con a ran sam of the joi of all thr tab alo the for key and est the res siz of a que fro the sam .
bn+ is a res of the prm tha doe not all any par for the joi ind var and res the par of oth att to be in the sam rel .
thi is equ to a mod wit a bn for eac rel tog wit the uni joi ass .
prm use unr prm .
bot prm and bn+ wer con usi tre - cpd and ssn sco .
we tes all thr app on a set of que tha joi all
fig 123 : ( a ) rel err vs .
sto siz for a sel - joi que ove thr tab in the tb dom wit sel on 123 att .
( b ) rel err for thr que set on tb ( c ) rel err for thr que set on fin
thr tab ( alt all thr can als be use for a que ove any sub of the tab ) .
the que sel one or two att fro eac tab .
for eac que sui , we ave the err ove all pos ins of the sel var .
not tha all thr app wer run so as to con gen mod ove all of the att of the tab , and not in a way tha was spe to the que sui .
123 ( a ) com the acc of the thr met for var - ous sto siz on a thr att que in the tb dom .
the gra sho bot bn+ and prm out sam for mos sto siz .
123 ( b ) com the acc of the thr met for sev dif que sui on tb , all eac met 123 byt of sto .
123 ( c ) com the acc of the thr met for sev dif que sui on fin , all - ing 123 byt of sto for eac .
the his sho tha prm alw out bn+ and sam .
run tim .
fin , we exa the run tim for con - str and est for our mod .
the exp wer per on a spa wor run sol wit 123 of int mem .
we rst con the tim req by the ofi con pha , sho in fig .
as we can see , the con tim var wit the amo of sto all for the mod : our sea alg sta wit sma pos mod in its sea spa ( all att ind of eac oth ) , so tha mor sea is req to con the mor com mod tha tak adv - tag of the add spa .
not tha tab cpd are ord of mag eas to con tha tre cpd how , as we dis - cus , the are als sub les acc .
the run tim for con als var wit the amo of dat in the dat .
123 ( b ) sho con tim ver dat siz for tre cpd and tab cpd for xed mod sto siz ( 123 byt ) .
not tha , for tab cpd , run tim gro lin wit the dat siz .
for tre cpd , run tim has hig var and is alm ind of dat siz , sin the run tim is dom by the sea for the tre cpd str onc suf sta are col .
the onl est pha is , of cou , mor tim - cri tha con , sin it is oft use in the inn loo of que opt - miz .
the run tim of our est tec var rou wit the sto siz of the mod , sin mod tha req a lot of spa are usu hig int net whi req som lon inf tim .
the exp in fig .
123 ( c ) il - lus the dep .
the est tim for bot met is qui rea .
the est tim for tre cpd is sig
hig , but thi is usi an alg tha doe not ful exp the tre - str we exp tha an alg tha is opt for tre cpd wou per on a par wit the tab est tim .
in thi pap , we hav pre a nov app for est que sel usi pro gra mod bay net and the rel ext .
our app uti pro - abi gra mod , whi exp con ind rel bet the dif att in the tab to all a com rep of the joi dis of the dat at - tri val .
we hav tes our alg on sev rea - wor dat in a var of dom med , nan , and soc .
the suc of our app on all of the dat ind tha the typ of str exp by our met is ver com , and tha our app is a via opt for man rea - wor dat .
our app has sev imp adv .
to our kno - edg , it is uni in its abi to han sel and joi ope - tor in a sin uni fra , the pro est for com que inv sev sel and joi ope .
sec - ond , our app cir the dim pro ass - cia wit mul - dim his .
mul - dim his - tog , as the dim of the tab gro , eit gro exp - nen or bec les and les acc .
our app est - mat the hig - dim joi dis usi a set of low - dim con dis , eac of whi is qui acc - rat .
as we saw , we can put the con dis tog to get a goo app to the ent joi dis .
thu , our mod is not lim to ans que ove a sma set of pre att tha hap to app in a his to - get it can be use to ans que ove an arb set of att in the dat .
the are sev imp top tha we hav not ful ad - dre in thi pap .
one is the inc mai of the prm as the dat cha .
it is str to ext our app to ada the par of the prm ove tim , kee the str xed .
to ada the str , we can app a var of the app of ( 123 ) .
we can als kee tra of the mod sco , rel the str if the sco dec dra .
ano imp top tha we hav not dis is joi ove non - key att .
in our pre and exp , our que use onl for key joi .
whi thi cat of que sta to ben mos fro the pro mod tha we pro , our met are mor gen .
we can com est for que tha joi non - key att by sum ove the pos val of the joi att , and our est are lik to be mor
123 123 123 123
fig 123 : ( a ) the con tim for a prm for cen usi tre and tab cpd as a fun of mod sto spa .
( b ) the con tim for a prm for cen usi tre and tab cpd as a fun of dat siz .
( c ) the run tim for que siz est as a fun of mod siz .
acc tha met tha do not mod any of the dep bet tup .
how an emp inv is req to eva our met on thi cat of que .
the are man int ext to our app , whi we int to inv in fut wor .
fir , we wan to ext our tec to han muc lar dat we bel tha an ini sin pas ove the dat can be use to hom in on a muc sma set of can mod , the suf sta for whi can the be com ver efc in bat mod .
mor int , the are obv app of our tec to the tas of app que ans , bot for ola que and for gen dat que ( eve que inv joi ) .
ack .
we wou lik to tha chr ols and vis poo for the hel fee .
thi wor was sup onr con n12 - 123 - c - 123 und dar hpk pro , and by the gen of the slo fou and the pow fou -
