sup vec mac hav met wit sig suc in num rea - wor lea tas .
how , lik mos mac lea alg , the are gen app usi a ran sel tra set cla in adv .
in man set , we als hav the opt of usi poo - bas act lea .
ins of usi a ran sel tra set , the lea has acc to a poo of unl ins and can req the lab for som num of the .
we int a new alg for per act lea wit sup vec mac , i . e . , an alg for cho whi ins to req nex .
we pro a the mot for the alg usi the not of a ver spa .
we pre exp res sho tha emp our act lea met can sig red the nee for lab tra ins in bot the sta ind and tra set .
key : act lea , sel sam , sup vec mac , cla - tio , rel fee
in man sup lea tas , lab ins to cre a tra set is tim - con and cos thu , ndi way to min the num of lab ins is ben .
usu , the tra set is cho to be a ran sam of ins .
how - eve , in man cas act lea can be emp .
her , the lea can act cho the tra dat .
it is hop tha all the lea thi ext exi wil red the lea nee for lar qua of lab dat .
poo - bas act lea for cla was int by lew and gal ( 123 ) .
the lea has acc to a poo of unl dat and can req the tru cla lab for a cer num of ins in the poo .
in man dom thi is a rea app sin a lar qua of unl dat is rea ava .
the mai iss wit act lea is ndi a way to cho goo req or que fro the poo .
exa of sit in whi poo - bas act lea can be emp are : web sea .
a web - bas com wis to sea the web for par typ of pag ( e . g . , pag con lis of jou pub ) .
it emp a num of peo to han - lab som web pag so as to cre a tra set for an aut
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 sim ton and dap kol .
ton and kol
cla tha wil eve be use to cla the res of the web .
sin hum exp is a lim res , the com wis to red the num of pag the emp hav to lab .
rat tha lab pag ran dra fro the web , the com req tar pag tha it bel wil be mos inf
ema lte .
the use wis to cre a per aut jun ema lte .
in the lea pha the aut lea has acc to the use pas ema les .
it int bri up pas ema and ask the use whe the dis ema is jun mai or not .
bas on the use ans it bri up ano ema and que the use .
the pro is rep som num of tim and the res is an ema lte tai to tha spe per .
rel fee .
the use wis to sor thr a dat or web for ite ( ima , art , etc . ) tha are of per int ill kno it whe i see it typ of sea .
the com dis an ite and the use tel the lea whe the ite is int or not .
bas on the use ans , the lea bri up ano ite fro the dat .
aft som num of que the lea the ret a num of ite in the dat tha it bel wil be of int to the
the rst two exa inv ind .
the goa is to cre a cla tha wor wel on uns fut ins .
the thi exa is an exa of tra ( vap , 123 ) .
the lea per is ass on the rem ins in the dat rat tha a tot ind tes set .
we pre a new alg tha per poo - bas act lea wit sup vec mac ( svm ) .
we pro the mot for our app to cho the que , tog wit exp res sho tha act lea wit svm can sig red the nee for lab tra ins .
we sha use tex cla as a run exa thr thi pap .
thi is the tas of det to whi pre - den top a giv tex doc bel .
tex cla has an imp rol to pla , esp wit the rec exp of rea ava tex dat .
the hav bee man app to ach thi goa ( roc , 123 , dum et al . , 123 , seb , 123 ) .
fur , it is als a dom in whi svm hav sho not suc ( joa , 123 , dum et al . , 123 ) and it is of int to see whe act lea can oer fur imp ove thi alr hig eec
the rem of the pap is str as fol .
sec 123 dis the use of svm bot in ter of ind and tra .
sec 123 the int the not of a ver spa and sec 123 pro the mot for thr met for per act lea wit svm .
in sec 123 we pre exp res for two rea - wor tex dom tha ind tha act lea can sig red the nee for lab ins in pra .
we con in sec 123 wit som dis of the pot sig of our res and som dir for fut wor .
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
fig 123 : ( a ) a sim lin sup vec mac .
( b ) a svm ( dot lin ) and a
tra svm ( sol lin ) .
sol cir rep unl ins .
sup vec mac
sup vec mac ( vap , 123 ) hav str the fou and exc emp suc .
the hav bee app to tas suc as han dig rec , obj rec , and tex cla .
123 svm for ind we sha con svm in the bin cla set .
we are giv tra dat ( x12 .
xn ) tha are vec in som spa x rd .
we are als giv the lab ( y12 .
yn ) whe yi ( 123 , 123 ) .
in the sim for , svm are hyp tha sep the tra dat by a max mar ( see fig .
all vec lyi on one sid of the hyp are lab as 123 , and all vec lyi on the oth sid are lab as 123
the tra ins tha lie clo to the hyp are cal sup vec .
mor gen , svm all one to pro the ori tra dat in spa x to a hig dim fea spa f via a mer ker ope k .
in oth wor , we con the set of cla of the for :
whe k sat mer con ( bur , 123 ) we can wri : k ( u , v ) = ( u ) ( v ) whe : x f and den an inn pro .
we can the rew f as :
f ( x ) = w ( x ) , whe w =
thu , by usi k we are imp pro the tra dat int a die ( oft hig dim ) fea spa f .
the svm the com the is tha cor to the max mar hyp in f .
by cho die ker fun we can
ton and kol
imp pro the tra dat fro x int spa f for whi hyp in f cor to mor com dec bou in the ori spa x .
two com use ker are the pol ker giv by k ( u , v ) = ( u v + 123 ) p whi ind pol bou of deg p in the ori spa x 123 and the rad bas fun ker k ( u , v ) = ( e ( uv ) ( uv ) ) whi ind bou by pla wei gau upo key tra ins .
for the maj of thi pap we wil ass tha the mod of the tra dat fea vec are con , i . e . , for all tra ins xi , ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) = for som xed .
the qua ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) is alw con for rad bas fun ker , and so the ass has no eec for thi ker .
for ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) to be con wit the pol ker we req tha ( cid : 123 ) xi ( cid : 123 ) be con .
it is pos to rel thi con on ( xi ) and we sha dis thi at the end of sec 123
123 svm for tra the pre sub wor wit the fra of ind .
the was a lab tra set of dat and the tas was to cre a cla tha wou hav goo per on uns tes dat .
in add to reg ind , svm can als be use for tra - tio .
her we are rst giv a set of bot lab and unl dat .
the lea tas is to ass lab to the unl dat as acc as pos .
svm can per tra - duc by ndi the hyp tha max the mar rel to bot the lab and unl dat .
see fig 123 for an exa .
rec , tra svm ( tsv ) hav bee use for tex cla ( joa , 123 ) , att som imp in pre / rec bre per ove reg ind svm .
ver spa
giv a set of lab tra dat and a mer ker k , the is a set of hyp tha sep the dat in the ind fea spa f .
we cal thi set of con hyp the ver spa ( mit , 123 ) .
in oth wor , hyp f is in ver spa if for eve tra ins xi wit lab yi we hav tha f ( xi ) > 123 if yi = 123 and f ( xi ) < 123 if yi = 123
mor for : den 123 our set of pos hyp is giv as :
f | f ( x ) =
whe w w
whe our par spa w is sim equ to f .
the ver spa , v is the den
v = ( f h | i ( 123 .
n ) yif ( xi ) > 123 ) .
not tha sin h is a set of hyp , the is a bij bet uni vec w and hyp f in h .
thu we wil red v as :
v = ( w w | ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123 , yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 , i = 123
we hav not int a bia wei in eq .
thu , the sim euc inn pro wil pro hyp tha pas thr the ori .
how , a pol ker of deg one ind hyp tha do not nee to pas thr the ori .
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
fig 123 : ( a ) ver spa dua .
the sur of the hyp rep uni wei vec .
eac of the two hyp cor to a lab tra ins .
eac hyp res the are on the hyp in whi con hy - pot can lie .
her , the ver spa is the sur seg of the hyp clo to the cam .
( b ) an svm cla in a ver spa .
the dar em - bed sph is the lar rad sph who cen lie in the ver spa and who sur doe not int wit the hyp .
the cen of the em - bed sph cor to the svm , its rad is pro to the mar of the svm in f , and the tra poi cor to the hyp tha it tou are the sup vec .
not tha a ver spa onl exi if the tra dat are lin sep in the fea spa .
thu , we req lin sep of the tra dat in the fea spa .
thi res is muc les har tha it mig at rst see .
fir , the fea spa oft has a ver hig dim and so in man cas it res in the dat set bei lin sep .
sec , as not by sha - tay and cri ( 123 ) , it is pos to mod any ker so tha the dat in the new ind fea spa is lin sep
the exi a dua bet the fea spa f and the par spa w ( vap , 123 , her et al . , 123 ) whi we sha tak adv of in the nex sec : poi in f cor to hyp in w and vic ver .
by den , poi in w cor to hyp in f .
the int beh the con is tha obs a tra ins xi in the fea spa res the set of sep hyp to one tha cla xi cor .
in fac , we can sho tha the set 123
thi is don by red for all tra ins xi : k ( xi , xi ) k ( xi , xi ) + whe is a pos reg con .
thi ess ach the sam eec as the sof mar err fun ( cor and vap , 123 ) com use in svm .
it per the tra dat to be lin non - sep in the ori fea spa .
ton and kol
of all poi w in w is res to lie on one sid of a hyp in w .
mor for , to sho tha poi in f cor to hyp in w , sup we are giv a new tra ins xi wit lab yi .
the any sep hyp mus sat yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123
now , ins of vie w as the nor vec of a hyp in f , thi of ( xi ) as bei the nor vec of a hyp in w .
thu yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 den a hal spa in w .
fur w ( xi ) = 123 den a hyp in w tha act as one of the bou to ver spa v .
not tha the ver spa is a con reg on the sur of a hyp in par spa .
see fig 123 for an exa .
svm nd the hyp tha max the mar in the fea spa f .
one way
to pos thi opt tas is as fol :
( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123
yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 i = 123
by hav the con ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123 and yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 we cau the sol to lie in the ver spa .
now , we can vie the abo pro as ndi the poi w in the ver spa tha max the dis : min ( yi ( w ( xi ) ) ) .
fro the dua bet fea and par spa , and sin ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) = , eac ( xi ) / is a uni nor vec of a hyp in par spa .
bec of the con yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 i = 123 .
n eac of the hyp del the ver spa .
the exp yi ( w ( xi ) ) can be
the dis bet the poi w and the hyp wit nor vec ( xi ) .
thu , we wan to nd the poi w in the ver spa tha max the min dis to any of the del hyp .
tha is , svm nd the cen of the lar rad hyp who cen can be pla in the ver spa and who sur doe not int wit the hyp cor to the lab ins , as in fig 123 .
the nor of the hyp tha are tou by the max rad hyp are the ( xi ) for whi the dis yi ( w ( xi ) ) is min .
now , tak the ori rat tha the dua vie , and reg w as the uni nor vec of the svm and ( xi ) as poi in fea spa , we see tha the hyp tha are tou by the max rad hyp cor to the sup vec ( i . e . , the lab poi tha are clo to the svm hyp bou ) .
the rad of the sph is the dis fro the cen of the sph to one of the tou hyp and is giv by yi ( w ( xi ) / ) whe ( xi ) is a sup vec .
now , vie w as a uni nor vec of the svm and ( xi ) as poi in fea spa , we hav tha the dis yi ( w ( xi ) / ) is :
the dis bet sup vec ( xi ) and the hyp wit nor vec w ,
whi is the mar of the svm div by .
thu , the rad of the sph is pro to the mar of the svm .
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
act lea
it is ass tha in poo - bas act lea we hav a poo of unl ins .
the ins x are ind and ide dis acc to som und dis f ( x ) and the lab are dis acc to som con dis p ( y | x ) .
giv an unl poo u , an act lea ( cid : 123 ) has thr com : ( f , q , x ) .
the rst com is a cla , f : x ( 123 , 123 ) , tra on the cur set of lab dat x ( and pos unl ins in u too ) .
the sec com q ( x ) is the que fun tha , giv a cur lab set x , dec whi ins in u to que nex .
the act lea can ret a cla f aft eac que ( onl lea ) or aft som xed num of que .
the mai die bet an act lea and a pas lea is the que com q .
thi bri us to the iss of how to cho the nex unl ins to que .
sim to seu et al .
( 123 ) , we use an app tha que poi so as to att to red the siz of the ver spa as muc as pos .
we tak a myo app tha gre cho the nex que bas on thi cri .
we als not tha myo is a sta app use in seq dec mak pro hor and rut ( 123 ) , lat ( 123 ) , hec et al .
( 123 ) .
we nee two mor den bef we
den 123 are ( v ) is the sur are tha the ver spa v occ on the hyp - sph ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123
den 123 giv an act lea ( cid : 123 ) , let vi den the ver spa of ( cid : 123 ) aft i que hav bee mad .
now , giv the ( i + 123 ) th que xi+ , den :
i = vi ( w w | ( w ( xi+ ) ) > 123 ) , i = vi ( w w | + ( w ( xi+ ) ) > 123 ) .
i and v +
123 and 123 res .
i den the res ver spa whe the nex que xi+ is lab as
we wis to red the ver spa as fas as pos .
int , one goo way of doi thi is to cho a que tha hal the ver spa .
the fol lem say tha , for any giv num of que , the lea tha cho suc que tha hal the ver spa is the lea tha min the max exp siz of the ver spa , whe the max is tak ove all con dis of y giv x :
ton and kol
lem 123 sup we hav an inp spa x , nit dim fea spa f ( ind via a ker k ) , and par spa w .
sup act lea ( cid : 123 ) alw que ins who cor hyp in par spa w hal the are of the cur ver spa .
let ( cid : 123 ) be any oth act lea .
den the ver spa of ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) aft i que i and vi res .
let p den the set of all con dis of y giv x .
i n+ sup
i ) ) sup
wit str ine whe the exi a que j ( 123 .
i ) by ( cid : 123 ) tha doe not hal ver spa vj1
the pro is str .
the lea , ( cid : 123 ) alw cho to que ins tha hal the ver spa .
thu are ( v i ) no mat wha the lab of the que poi are .
let r den the dim of fea spa f .
the r is als the dim of the par spa w .
let sr den the sur are of the uni hyp of dim r .
the , und any con dis p , are ( v
i+1 ) = 123
i ) = sr / 123 .
now , sup ( cid : 123 ) doe not alw que an ins tha hal the are of the ver spa .
the aft som num , k , of que ( cid : 123 ) rst cho to que a poi xk+ tha doe not hal the cur ver spa vk .
let yk+ ( 123 , 123 ) cor to the lab of xk+ tha wil cau the lar hal of the ver spa to be cho .
k ) and so yk+ = 123
not tha
k ) = sr / 123 , so we hav tha are ( v
k ) > are ( v +
k ) + are ( v +
wit los of gen ass are ( v
now con the con dis p12 :
k ) > sr / 123
p12 ( 123 | x ) =
if x ( cid : 123 ) = xk+ if x = xk+
the und thi dis , i > k ,
hen , i > k ,
i ) ) > sup
now , sup w w is the uni par vec cor to the svm tha we wou hav obt had we kno the act lab of all of the dat in the poo .
we kno tha w mus lie in eac of the ver spa v12 v12 v12 .
. , whe vi den the ver spa aft i que .
thu , by shr the siz of the ver spa as muc as pos wit eac que , we are red as fas as pos the spa in whi w can lie .
hen , the svm tha we lea fro our lim num of que wil lie clo to w .
if one is wil to ass tha the is a hyp lyi wit h tha gen the dat and tha the gen hyp is det and tha the dat are noi fre , the str gen per pro of an alg tha hal ver spa can als be sho ( fre et al . , 123 ) .
for exa one can sho tha the gen err dec exp wit the num of que .
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
fig 123 : ( a ) sim mar wil que b .
( b ) sim mar wil que a .
fig 123 : ( a ) max mar wil que b .
the two svm wit mar m and m+ for b are sho .
( b ) rat mar wil que e .
the two svm wit mar m and m+ for e are sho .
thi dis pro mot for an app whe we que ins tha spl the cur ver spa int two equ par as muc as pos .
giv an unl ins x fro the poo , it is not pra to exp com the siz of the new ver spa v and v + ( i . e . , the ver spa obt whe x is lab as 123 and +12 res ) .
we nex pre thr way of app thi pro .
sim mar .
rec fro sec 123 tha , giv som dat ( x12 .
xi ) and lab ( y12 .
yi ) , the svm uni vec wi obt fro thi dat is the cen of the lar hyp tha can t ins the cur ver spa vi .
the pos of wi in the ver spa vi cle dep on the sha of the reg vi , how it is oft app in the cen of the ver spa .
now , we can tes eac of the unl ins x in the poo to see how clo the cor hyp in w com to the cen pla wi .
the clo a hyp in w is to the poi wi , the mor cen it is pla in the ver spa , and the mor it bis the ver spa .
thu we can pic the unl ins in the poo who hyp
ton and kol
in w com clo to the vec wi .
for eac unl ins x , the sho dis bet its hyp in w and the vec wi is sim the dis bet the fea vec ( x ) and the hyp wi in fwh is eas com by |wi ( x ) | .
thi res in the nat rul : lea an svm on the exi lab dat and cho as the nex ins to que the ins tha com clo to the hyp in f .
fig 123 pre an ill .
in the sty pic we hav att out the sur of the uni wei vec hyp tha app in fig 123 .
the whi are is ver spa vi whi is bou by sol lin cor to lab ins .
the ve dot lin rep unl ins in the poo .
the cir rep the lar rad hyp tha can t in the ver spa .
not tha the edg of the cir do not tou the sol lin as the dar sph in 123 doe not mee the hyp on the sur of the lar hyp ( the mee som und the sur ) .
the ins b is clo to the svm wi and so we wil cho to que b .
max mar .
the sim mar met can be a rat rou app .
it rel on the ass tha the ver spa is fai sym and tha wi is cen pla .
it has bee dem , bot in the and pra , tha the ass can fai sig ( her et al . , 123 ) .
ind , if we are not car we may act que an ins who hyp doe not eve int the ver spa .
the max app is des to ove the pro to som deg .
giv som dat ( x12 .
xi ) and lab ( y12 .
yi ) , the svm uni vec wi is the cen of the lar hyp tha can t ins the cur ver spa vi and the rad mi of the hyp is pro to the siz of the mar of wi .
we can use the rad mi as an ind of the siz of the ver spa ( vap , 123 ) .
sup we hav a can unl ins x in the poo .
we can est the rel siz of the res ver spa v by lab x as 123 , ndi the svm obt fro add x to our lab tra dat and loo at the siz of its mar m .
we can per a sim cal for v + by rel x as cla +12 and ndi the res svm to obt mar m+ .
sin we wan an equ spl of the ver spa , we wis are ( v ) and are ( v + ) to be sim .
now , con min ( are ( v ) , are ( v + ) ) .
it wil be sma if are ( v ) and are ( v + ) are ver die .
thu we wil con min ( m , m+ ) as an app and we wil cho to que the x for whi thi qua is lar .
hen , the max que alg is as fol : for eac unl ins x com the mar m and m+ of the svm obt whe we lab x as 123 and +12 res the cho to que the unl ins for whi the qua min ( m , m+ ) is gre .
fig 123 and 123 sho an exa com the sim mar and max mar
rat mar .
thi met is sim in spi to the max mar met .
we use m and m+ as ind of the siz of v and v + .
how , we sha try to
to eas not , wit los of gen we sha ass the the con of pro is 123 , i . e . ,
the rad is equ to the mar .
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
tak int acc the fac tha the cur ver spa vi may be qui elo and for som x in the poo bot m and m+ may be sma sim bec of the sha of ver spa .
thu we wil ins loo at the rel siz of m and m+ and cho to que the x for whi min ( m
m ) is lar ( see fig 123 ) .
m+ , m+
the abo thr met are app to the que com tha alw hal ver spa .
aft per som num of que we the ret a cla by lea a svm wit the lab ins .
the mar can be use as an ind of the ver spa siz irr of whe the fea vec hav con mod .
thu the exp for the max and rat met sti hol eve wit the con on the mod of the tra fea vec .
the sim met can sti be use whe the tra fea vec do not hav con mod , but the mot exp no lon hol sin the max mar hyp can no lon be vie as the cen of the lar all sph .
how , for the sim met , alt mot hav rec bee pro by cam et al .
( 123 ) tha do not req the con on the mod .
for ind lea , aft per som num of que we the ret a cla - er by lea a svm wit the lab ins .
for tra lea , aft que som num of ins we the ret a cla by lea a tra svm wit the lab and unl ins .
for our emp eva of the abo met we use two rea - wor tex cla dom : the reu - 123 dat set and the new dat set .
123 reu dat col exp
the reu - 123 dat set is a com use col of new sto cat int han - lab top .
eac new sto has bee han - lab wit som num of top lab suc as cor , whe and cor acq .
not tha som of the top ove and so som art bel to mor tha one cat .
we use the 123 art fro the mod spl of the dat and , to sta com wit pre stu , we con the top ten mos fre occ top .
we lea ten die bin cla , one to dis eac top .
eac doc was rep as a ste , tfi - wei wor fre vec . 123 eac vec had uni mod .
a sto lis of com wor was use and wor occ in few tha thr doc wer als ign .
usi thi rep , the doc vec had abo 123 dim .
we rst com the thr que met in the ind lea set
tes set con of the 123 doc pre in the mod tes set .
obt fro www . res . att . com / lew .
the reu - 123 col com wit a set of pre tra and tes set spl .
the com use spl lte out dup art and tho wit a lab top , and the use ear art as the tra set and lat art as the tes set .
we use rai ( mcc , 123 ) for tex pro .
ton and kol
lab tra set siz
lab tra set siz
fig 123 : ( a ) ave tes set acc ove the ten mos fre occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123
( b ) ave tes set pre / rec bre poi ove the ten mos fre occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
tab 123 : ave tes set acc ove the top ten mos fre occ top ( mos fre top rst ) whe tra wit ten lab doc .
bol ind
for eac of the ten top we per the fol ste .
we cre a poo of unl dat by sam 123 doc fro the rem dat and rem the lab .
we the ran sel two doc in the poo to giv as the ini lab tra set .
one doc was abo the des top , and the oth doc was not abo the top .
thu we gav eac lea 123 unl doc and 123 lab doc .
aft a xed num of que we ask eac lea to ret a cla ( an
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
tab 123 : ave tes set pre / rec bre poi ove the top ten mos fre occ top ( mos fre top rst ) whe tra wit ten lab doc - men .
bol ind sta sig .
svm wit a pol ker of deg one lea on the lab tra doc ) .
we the tes the cla on the ind tes set .
the abo pro was rep thi tim for eac top and the res wer ave .
we con the sim mar , max mar and rat mar que met as wel as a ran sam met .
the ran sam met sim ran - dom cho the nex que poi fro the unl poo .
thi las met ree wha hap in the reg pas lea set tra set is a ran sam of
to mea per we use two met :
tes set cla err and , to sta com wit pre reu cor res , the pre / rec bre poi ( joa , 123 ) .
pre is the per of doc a cla lab as rel tha are rea rel .
rec is the per of rel doc tha are lab as rel by the cla .
by alt the dec thr on the svm we can tra pre - cis for rec and can obt a pre / rec cur for the tes set .
the pre / rec bre poi is a one num sum of thi gra : it is the poi at whi pre
fig 123 and 123 pre the ave tes set acc and pre / rec bre poi ove the ten top as we var the num of que per .
the hor lin is the per lev ach whe the svm is tra on all 123 lab doc com the poo .
ove the reu cor , the thr act lea met per alm ide wit lit not die to dis bet the .
eac met als app out ran sam .
tab 123 and 123 sho the tes set acc and bre per of the act met aft the hav ask for jus eig lab ins ( so , tog wit the ini two ran ins , the hav see ten lab ins ) .
the dem tha the thr act met per sim on thi
for svm and tra svm lea we use svm joa ( 123 ) .
ton and kol
lab tra set siz
lab tra set siz
fig 123 : ( a ) ave tes set acc ove the ten mos fre occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123
( b ) ave tes set pre / rec bre poi ove the ten mos fre occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123
reu dat set aft eig que , wit the max and rat sho a ver sli edg in per .
the las col in eac tab are of mor int .
the sho app how man ins wou be nee if we wer to use ran to ach the sam lev of per as the rat act lea met .
in thi ins , pas lea on ave req ove six tim as muc dat to ach com lev of per as the act lea met .
the tab ind tha act lea pro mor ben wit the inf cla , par whe mea per by the pre / rec bre poi .
thi las obs has als bee not bef in pre emp tes ( mcc and nig , 123 ) .
we not tha app hal of the que tha the act lea met ask ten to tur out to be pos lab , reg of the tru ove pro of pos ins in the dom .
we inv whe the gai tha the act lea met had ove reg ran sam wer due to thi bia sam .
we cre a new que met cal bal whi wou ran sam an equ num of pos and neg ins fro the poo .
obv in pra the abi to ran sam an equ num of pos and neg ins wit hav to lab an ent poo of ins rst may or may not be rea dep upo the dom in que .
fig 123 and 123 sho the ave acc and bre poi of the bal met com wit the rat act met and reg ran met on the reu dat wit a poo of 123 unl ins .
the rat and ran cur are the sam as tho sho in fig 123 and 123 .
the max and sim cur are omi to eas leg .
the bal met has a muc bet - ter pre / rec bre per tha the reg ran met , alt it is sti mat and the out by the act met .
for cla acc , the bal met ini has ext poo per ( les tha 123 whi is
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
fig 123 : ( a ) ave tes set acc ove the ten mos fre occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123 and 123
( b ) ave bre poi ove the ten mos fre occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123 and 123
eve wor tha pur ran gue ) and is alw con and sig out - per by the act met .
thi ind tha the per gai of the act met are not mer due to the abi to bia the cla of the ins the que .
the act met are cho spe tar ins and app hal of the ins hap to hav pos lab .
fig 123 and 123 sho the ave acc and bre poi of the rat met wit two die poo siz .
cle the ran sam met per wil not be aec by the poo siz .
how , the gra ind tha inc the poo of unl dat wil imp bot the acc and bre per of act lea .
thi is qui int sin a goo act met sho be abl to tak adv of a lar poo of pot que and ask mor tar que .
we als inv act lea in a tra set .
her we que the poi as usu exc now eac met ( sim and ran ) ret a tra svm tra on bot the lab and rem unl dat in the poo .
as des by joa ( 123 ) the bre poi for a tsv was com by gra alt the num of unl ins tha we wis the tsv to lab as pos .
thi inv re - lea the tsv mul tim and was com int .
sin our set was tra , the per of eac cla was mea on the poo of dat rat tha a sep tes set .
thi ree the rel fee tra inf exa pre in the int .
fig 123 sho tha usi a tsv pro a sli adv ove a reg svm in bot que met ( ran and sim ) whe com bre poi .
how , the gra als sho tha act lea pro not mor ben tha tra ind usi a tsv wit a ran que met nee ove 123 que to ach
ton and kol
lab tra set siz
fig 123 : ave poo set pre / rec bre poi ove the ten mos fre
occ top whe usi a poo siz of 123
lab tra set siz
lab tra set siz
fig 123 : ( a ) ave tes set acc ove the ve com .
top whe usi a poo siz of 123
( b ) ave tes set acc for com . sys . ibm . pc . har wit a 123
the sam bre per as a reg svm wit a sim met tha has onl see 123 lab ins .
123 new exp
our sec dat col was k .
lan new col lan ( 123 ) .
we use the ve com .
gro , dis the use hea and sub lin .
we pro the tex doc exa as bef , res in vec of abo 123 dim .
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
fig 123 : ( a ) a sim exa of que unl clu .
( b ) mac - ave tes set acc for com . os . ms - win . mis and com . sys . ibm . pc . har whe hyb use the rat met for the rst ten que and sim for the res .
we pla hal of the 123 doc asi to use as an ind tes set , and rep , ran cho a poo of 123 doc fro the rem ins .
we per twe run for eac of the ve top and ave the res .
we use tes set acc to mea per .
fig 123 con the lea cur ( ave ove all of the res for the ve com .
top ) for the thr act lea met and ran sam .
aga , the hor lin ind the per of an svm tha has bee tra on the ent poo .
the is no app die bet the max and rat met but , in two of the ve new ( com . sys . ibm . pc . har and com . os . ms - win . mis ) the sim act lea met per not wor tha the max and rat met .
fig 123 sho the ave lea cur for the com . sys . ibm . pc . har top .
in aro ten to fte per cen of the run for bot of the two new the sim met was mis and per ext poo ( for ins , ach onl 123 acc eve wit fty tra ins , whi is wor tha jus ran gue a lab ! ) .
thi ind tha the sim que met may be mor uns tha the oth two met .
one rea for thi cou be tha the sim met ten not to exp the fea spa as agg as the oth act met , and can end up ign ent clu of unl ins .
in fig 123 , the sim met tak sev que bef it eve con an ins in the unl clu whi bot the max and rat que a poi in the unl clu imm .
whi max and rat app mor sta the are muc mor com in - ten .
wit a lar poo of s ins , the req abo 123 svm to be lea for eac que .
mos of the com cos is inc whe the num of que tha hav alr bee ask is lar .
the rea is tha the cos of tra an svm gro pol - all wit the siz of the lab tra set and so now tra eac svm is cos ( tak
ton and kol
que sim max rat hyb
tab 123 : typ run tim in sec for the act met on the new dat
ove 123 sec to gen the 123 que on a sun ult 123 123 wor wit a poo of 123 doc ) .
how , whe the qua of lab dat is sma , eve wit a lar poo siz , max and rat are fai fas ( tak a few sec per que ) sin now tra eac svm is fai che .
int , it is in the rst ten que tha the sim see to sue the mos thr its lac of agg exp .
thi mot a hyb met .
we can use max or rat for the rst few que and the use the sim met for the res .
exp wit the hyb met sho tha it mai the sta of the max and rat met whi all the sca of the sim met .
fig 123 com the hyb met wit the rat and sim met on the two new for whi the sim met per poo .
the tes set acc of the hyb met is vir ide to tha of the rat met whi the hyb met run tim was abo the sam as the sim met , as ind by tab 123
rel wor
the hav bee sev stu of act lea for cla .
the que by com - mit alg ( seu et al . , 123 , fre et al . , 123 ) use a pri dis ove hyp .
thi gen alg has bee app in dom and wit cla for whi spe and sam fro a pri dis is nat .
the hav bee use wit pro mod ( dag and eng , 123 ) and spe wit the nai bay mod for tex cla in a bay lea set ( mcc and nig , 123 ) .
the nai bay cla pro an int mod and pri way to inc - rat pri kno and dat wit mis val .
how , it typ doe not per as wel as dis met suc as svm , par in the tex cla do - mai ( joa , 123 , dum et al . , 123 ) .
we re - cre mcc and nig ( 123 ) exp set on the reu - 123 cor and com the rep res fro the alg ( whi we sha cal the mn - alg her ) wit our .
in lin wit the exp set , que wer ask ve at a tim , and thi was ach by pic the ve ins clo to the cur hyp .
fig 123 com mcc and nig rep res wit our .
the gra ind tha the act svm per is sig bet tha tha of the
an alt com app to que by com was exp by lie and tad ( 123 , 123 ) .
alt the alg ( lt - alg her ) lac the the -
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
svm sim act
lab tra set siz
svm sim act lta win act lta win pas
lab tra set siz
fig 123 : ( a ) ave bre poi per ove the cor , tra and acq reu - 123 cat .
( b ) ave tes set acc ove the top ten reu - 123
ore jus of the que by com alg , the suc use the com bas act lea met wit win cla in the tex cat dom .
fig 123 was pro by emu the exp set on the reu - 123 dat set and it com the rep res wit our .
the alg doe not req a pos and neg ins to see the cla .
rat tha see our act svm wit a pos and neg ins ( whi wou giv the act svm an unf adv ) the act svm ran sam 123 doc for its rst 123 que .
thi pro vir gua tha the tra set con at lea one pos - tiv ins .
the act svm the pro to que ins act usi the sim met .
des the ver nai ini pol for the act svm , the gra sho tha the act svm acc is sig bet tha tha of the lt - alg .
lew and gal ( 123 ) int unc sam and app it to a tex dom usi log reg and , in a com pap , usi dec tre ( lew and cat , 123 ) .
the sim que met for svm act lea is ess the sam as the unc sam met ( cho the ins tha our cur cla is mos unc - tai abo ) , how the pro sub les jus as to why the alg sho be eec .
the als not tha the per of the unc sam met can be var , per qui poo on occ .
two oth stu ( cam et al . , 123 , sch and coh , 123 ) ind de - vel our sim met for act lea wit sup vec mac and pro die for ana .
cam , cri and smo ext the ana for the sim met to cov the use of sof mar svm ( cor and vap , 123 ) wit lin - ear non - sep dat .
sch and coh not int beh of the act lea cur in the pre of out .
ton and kol
con and fut wor
we hav int a new alg for per act lea wit svm .
by tak adv of the dua bet par spa and fea spa , we arr at thr alg tha att to red ver spa as muc as pos at eac que .
we hav sho emp tha the tec can pro con gai in bot the ind and tra set som cas shr the nee for lab ins by ove an ord of mag , and in alm all cas rea the per ach on the ent poo hav see onl a fra of the dat .
fur , lar poo of unl dat imp the qua of the res cla .
of the thr mai met pre , the sim met is com the fas .
how , the sim met see to be a rou and mor uns app , as we wit whe it per poo on two of the ve new top .
if ask eac que is exp rel to com tim the usi eit the max or rat may be pre .
how , if the cos of ask eac que is rel che and mor emp is pla upo fas fee the the sim met may be mor sui .
in eit cas , we hav sho tha the use of the met for lea can sub out sta pas lea .
fur , exp wit the hyb met ind tha it is pos to com the ben of the rat and sim met .
the wor pre her lea us to man dir of int .
sev stu hav not tha gai in com spe can be obt at the exp of gen per by que mul ins at a tim ( lew and gal , 123 , mcc and nig , 123 ) .
vie svm in ter of the ver spa giv an ins as to whe the app are bei mad , and thi may pro a gui as to whi mul ins are bet to que .
for ins , it is sub to que two ins who ver spa hyp are fai par to eac oth .
so , wit the sim met , ins of bli cho to que the two ins tha are the clo to the cur svm , it may be bet to que two ins tha are clo to the cur svm and who hyp in the ver spa are fai per .
sim tra can be mad for the rat and max met .
bay poi mac ( her et al . , 123 ) app nd the cen of mas of the ver spa .
usi the sim met wit thi poi rat tha the svm poi in the ver spa may pro an imp in per and sta .
the use of mon car met to est ver spa are may als giv imp .
one way of vie the str of alw cho to hal the ver spa is tha we hav ess pla a uni dis ove the cur spa of con hyp and we wis to red the exp siz of the ver spa as fas as pos .
rat tha mai a uni dis ove con hyp , it is pla tha the add of pri kno ove our hyp spa may all us to mod our que alg and pro us wit an eve bet str .
fur , the pac - bay fra int by mca ( 123 ) con the eec of pri kno on gen bou and thi app may lea to the gua for the mod que alg .
fin , the rat and max met are com exp sin the hav to ste thr eac of the unl dat ins and lea an svm for eac pos
svm act lea wit app to tex cla
lab .
how , the tem mod dat set wil onl die by one ins fro the ori lab dat set and so one can env lea an svm on the ori dat set and the com the inc upd to obt the new svm ( cau and pog , 123 ) for eac of the pos lab of eac of the unl ins .
thu , one wou hop obt a muc mor eci imp of the rat and max met and hen all the act lea alg to sca up to lar pro .
thi wor was sup by dar inf ass pro und sub to sri int , and by aro gra daa - 123 - 123 - 123 und the mur pro int app to int sys .
