mar tra of hum pos is a har yet rel - van pro .
in thi pap , we der an efc lte alg for tra hum pos at 123 - 123 fra per sec - ond usi a str of mon dep ima .
the key ide is to com an acc gen mod is ach in thi set usi pro gra - ics har a dis mod tha fee dat - dri evi abo bod par loc .
in eac lte ite , we app a for of loc mod - bas sea tha exp the nat of the kin cha .
as fas mov - men and occ can dis the loc sea , we uti a set of dis tra pat cla to det bod par .
we des a nov alg for pro thi noi evi abo bod par loc up the kin - mat cha usi the uns tra .
the res dis of bod con all us to rei the mod - bas sea , whi in tur all our sys to rob rec fro tem tra dri .
we pro ext exp res on 123 rea - wor seq usi aut gro - tru ann fro a com - cia mot cap sys .
if mot cap tec wer to bec con - nie , che , and app in nat env , the a who ran of app wou bec pos , suc as int hum - mac int , sma sur , cha ani , vir rea and mot ana .
it is lik tha man suc app wil bec app onc the tec is ava .
the onl via sol tod , tha is , mar - bas hu - man mot cap , has so far mai bee use in the en - ter ind , lar bec the nee for spe - pur cam and inc mar or sui req - ing hig ope cos .
as a res , the has bee muc
int in the are of mar mot cap , and suc sys are bec mor pop ( 123 ) .
in rec yea , alg hav bee pro tha cap - tur ful ske mot at nea rea - tim fra rat how - eve , the mos rel on mul - vie cam sys and spe con rec con tha lim the ap - pli .
les exp sys tha use a nar bas - lin cam sys hav not yet rea a sim lev of mat .
mos mon app so far aim at sol - ing sim ver of the ful art mot cap - tur pro , suc as ges dis , or cap of res mot for cer par of the bod .
tim - of - igh sen are a tec tha off ric sen inf abo a lar par of the sce and , at the sam tim , ena a con , non - inv sys set .
the sen pro den dep mea at eve poi in the sce at hig fra rat .
the ran dat pro all eas seg of the hum bod and can als dis pos tha wou oth hav sim app and the con mos mon sys .
ran sen , in gen , len the to a fai gen mod ( as the rob lit sho ) , bec the are not sen to cha in lig , sha - ows , and the var of the pro tha mak it nea imp to gen mod int ima .
in the fut , the sen are lik to be as che as web are tod .
thu , we app the hum mot cap tas usi tim - of - igh sen .
des the adv of dep sen , how , sev har pro hav to be dea wit , inc the hig dim of the sta - spa ( 123 deg - of - fre in our cas ) and the non , hig pea lik fun .
we pro in thi pap a pro lte fra - wor tha emp a hig acc gen mod whi is ach in thi set usi an efc gpu imp a dis mod .
our alg - rit was dev spe for fas ope at vid fra rat , sin nat com req a low - lat act - rea cyc .
the pre sys re -
qui 123 123 per cam fra to est the joi ang of a 123 deg - of - fre hum mod .
our pri con is a nov alg for com dis par det wit loc hil - cli for thi tas .
our sec con is the den of a smo lik fun and a mea of imp it on rea ava gra har ( gpu ) efc in ord to obt nea rea - tim per - man .
in add to thi , we con an ext set of rea - wor tes seq wit ann gro tru , whi are pub ope ( 123 ) for fut ben .
rel wor
the aut ana of hum sha and mot fro sen dat has bee res con as moe - lun et al .
( 123 ) ill in the sur cov mor tha tha 123 pap .
sev lea bas app ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) att to dir map ima str , sil or fea com - put fro the dir to pos .
whi thi is an int - est app in gen , it is not cle yet how to sca it rob to the gen pro set in unc env due to the hig dim of the hum pos spa .
rel to our app , thi lin of res wou t wel int the dat - dri com of our alg - rit des in sec .
sim , sev pap try to det par of the bod whi the ass int a com - ple for , ter pic str .
alt ope on hig qua poi clo obt fro las sca in - ste of vid , rod et al .
( 123 ) tak a sim app tha use dis met to pop the dom of dis var in a bay net .
in the mul - vie vis set , sig et al .
( 123 ) app a sim str , but use non bel pro for the inf met .
our app dif in tha we per inf in the con dom and tha we are wor on tem - por dat wit a noi sen .
our app to bod par det emp in thi wor is des in ( 123 ) .
muc wor has als foc on sam - bas met ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , inc par sam , whi upd sub of par , and hie sam , whi sta at the top of the kin cha and pro dow - war .
in our app , we ado the ide of hie sea alo the kin cha , but rep ran sam - pli wit det sam bec it is all in - cre efc thr pre .
rec the hav bee sev att to tra peo usi a tim - of - igh ( tof ) cam .
gre et al .
( 123 ) app non - lin lea squ to edg map , tha are ass fro fra to fra .
kno et al .
( 123 ) use a ste cam and a tof cam to t a cyl 123 bod mod to the dat via the ite clo poi ( icp ) alg .
bot pa - per foc on tra of the upp bod onl .
due to the
fig 123
lef : the hum bod is mod by a kin cha and a 123 sur mes .
rig : the dyn bay net mod the pos xt of the tra per and the rec ran mea zt .
loc nat , bot alg are sus to los tra whe the mot is too fas .
rec , zhu et al .
( 123 ) hav pro an alg for upp - bod tra fro one tof cam .
the alg is bas on han - eng heu for det joi of the upp bod and is opt - miz for upp fro - fac pos .
the alg do not inc any rei com and ope thr loc opt ini fro the pre fra .
the rel pro of tra usi one or man vid cam has als rec muc att .
the cla wor by bre et al .
( 123 ) tra a per fro a sin cam usi opt ow to obt fra - to - fra cor - res , whi are use to cal mot der - tiv , whi are pro up the kin cha .
by as - sum , the app is lim to mot par to the ima pla , and it is als sus to los tra .
how , the cen ide of pro inf fro the ima up the kin cha is one tha we exp in our alg , alt we use the uns tra to ach hig qua lin .
the is a gro tre in pap tha use pro - gra gra har ( gpu ) to imp com - put vis alg ( 123 ) .
the par nat of com - tat on a gpu as wel as the opt for ope on ima lea us to bel , tha the are an ide pla for com vis alg , esp whe rea - tim per is par .
we exp gpu to per lar num of lik eva efc .
pro mod
the obj is to tra an art bod ove tim usi a str of mon dep ima .
we rst den a pro mod for the var of int in thi sec - tio and the des how to efc per inf in sec
we mod the bod as a col of 123 rig bod par , whi are con in spa acc to a tre - sha kin cha ( ske ) , see the lef dia in fig .
a kin cha is a dir acy gra ( dag )
wit wel - den par - chi rel .
the sur ge - ome of the mod is rep via a clo tri mes , whi def wit the und kin cha by mea of a ver ski app ( 123 ) .
we de - not the con of the bod by xt = ( x i whe eac i ind a uni den bod par in the cha .
the tra xi can be rep in var - ous way , suc as usi hom mat or in vec - tor / qua for .
ind fro the cho of rep - res , x i den the pos and ori of a spe bod par rel to its par par .
the cha is anc to the wor at the pel x 123 t ( whi doe not hav a par in the kin tre ) .
in our mod , we all the pel to fre rot and tra .
the rem bod par are con to the the par via a bal joi , whi all the to rot in any dir , but not to tra .
we obt the abs ori w i ( x ) of a bod par i by mul the tra of its anc in the kin cha , w i ( x ) = x 123 x par ( i ) x i .
in ord to det the mos lik sta at any tim , we mus den a pro mod .
the sta at tim t is the pos xt and its rst dis - tim der vt .
the mea is the ran sca zt .
we mod our sys as a dyn bay net ( dbn ) , see the rig dia - gra in fig .
123 , whi enc the mar ind ass tha xt and vt are ind of z12 , .
, zt1 giv xt1 and vt1
thi dbn req the spe of the con pro p ( vt| ) , p ( xt| , vt ) and the mea - sur mod p ( zt| ) .
we mak the ass tha the acc in our sys are dra fro a gau dis wit zer mea
thu , vt| n ( vt1 , ) wit the cov mat bei dia .
we not tha sin x is a lis of rel tra , the vel are als den rel .
tha is , if k is the ind of the kne , v k t enc the cha in the ang bet the shi and thi at fra t .
the cov was spe by han fol bio - mec pri and the kno vid fra rat , alt it cou eas be set by an au - tom pro usi the man ava hum mot
we den p ( xt| , xt1 ) to be a det cpd ( con pro dis ) , tha app the tra - for in vt to tho in xt1
for , x i wit pro 123
t = v i
the mea mod den the dis on the mea ran dat giv the sta of the sys .
the mea - sur ran sca is den by z = ( zk ) m k=1 whe zk giv the mea dep of the pix at coo k .
an exa sca is sho in fig .
we ass the con ind -
123 tha it is com in the tra lit to ass ran
acc rat tha ran vel
fig 123
our sen mod for ind ran mea ap - pro the mix of a gau ( mea noi ) and a uni dis ( out and mis - ass ) .
den of eac pix giv the sta and sce geo m ,
p ( zt| , m ) = y
t |xt , m ) .
to gen the zk for a spe bod con x and mod m , we tra the ver cor to eac par i by its cor tra mat w i ( x ) .
we the cas a ray fro the foc poi thr pix k and cal the dis to the rst sur it hit , whi we den zk .
not , tha thi is bas a ray - tra op - era com pla in the com gra ren
giv the ide dep val , we can the app a noi mod for the giv sen .
noi mod for tim - of - igh sen hav bee hea exp in the rob lit - tur .
the sta app is to exp mod the dif - fer typ of noi tha are can occ .
in pri , one can enu the eff , suc as gau noi of the sen , the pro of a max ran rea , out , and oth .
we app suc a cpd usi the fun - tio sho in fig .
let us den smo ( x ) = ( min ( x , 123 ) ) 123 ( 123 123 min ( x , 123 ) ) .
we den
p ( |zk zk| ) exp ( smo ( |zk zk| ) ) .
we cho thi fun bec it app a gau mix wit a uni dis and it is a bui - in fun - tio in the gpu sha lan .
our goa is to det the mos lik sta xt and vt at tim t giv the map ass of the pre fra , tha is , xt1 and vt1
at eac fra , we fac the dif , hig dim opt pro h xt , vti =
arg , vt log p ( zt| , vt ) +lo p ( xt , vt| xt1 , vt1 ) ,
for whi we des an efc sol in sec
as a cen com of our opt pro , the pre des mea mod p ( zt| , vt ) is ina due to its sen to inc mod m and to sli cha in the sta x .
par of the mod tha vio - lat the sil in the mea ima wil be pen hea .
for ins , sli tra an obj wil re - sul in all pix at the edg eva an inc dep
val , whi wou be pen hea .
the sen mod par acc for thi ove - sen thr the use of a hea - tai dis .
in the lit , it has fre bee obs tha the tru lik is oft ill - sui for opt , and sur - rog lik are oft use ( 123 ) .
we dev a fun - tio tha is mor rob to the mis - ass tha occ dur opt .
let us rew thi lik l ( x ) in ter of z ( x ) , the dep ima obt thr ray - l ( x ) = pk log p ( zk| ( x ) ) = cas app to x .
pk log p ( zk| ( x ) ) .
we con an alt smo
lsm ( x ) = x
log p ( zk| ( x ) ) + ( j , k )
par by a pen fun .
her , ( j , k ) rep - res a cos for cho a dif pix ind tha the one pre by ray cas .
in our cas we den ( j , k ) = , if j is not an imm pix nei of k , ( j , k ) = 123 , if j = k and set ( j , k ) to a con in all oth cas .
we cho the con 123 acc to on the fol rea : giv our sen eld of vie , the sub wil be app two met awa in ord to t com .
at tha dis , mov to a nei pix res in a euc dis of a app 123 met per to the dir the cam is fac .
nea the min , the log lik of the noi mod is app qua .
can be cho to smo the lik fur tho thi cou red acc .
thu , the tot pen fun app euc dis for clo mat .
thi sec den the pro sta spa and mea mod .
inf in thi mod is non - tri due to the hig - dim nat of the spa of the kin - mat con spa x and the ass vel spa v .
thi is par cha for our rea - tim tra obj , whe exh inf is inf .
we now des how to per efc map inf - enc at eac fra .
we att thi pro in two way : ( 123 ) a mod - bas com loc opt the lik - lih fun by hil - cli and ( 123 ) , a dat - dri par pro the mea z to rei par of the lte sta whe pos .
for the lat com , we der an app inf pro ter evi pro - tio to gen lik sta whi are the use to ini the mod - bas alg .
mod ( cid : 123 ) bas hil cli sea ( hc )
to loc opt the lik , we app a coa - to - ne hil - cli pro .
we sta fro the bas of
t |v i
kin cha whi inc the lar bod par , and pro tow the lim .
for a sin dim i of the sta spa , we sam a gri of val abo the mea of t12 ) .
for eac sam of vt , we det gen the sta xt fro xt1
the lik of thi sta is eva , and the bes one of the gri cho .
the pro can the pot be app to a sma int - val abo the val cho at the coa lev .
for exa , to opt the x axi of the pel , we mig sam val bet - 123 to 123 at int of 123 met .
the ben - t of suc a pro is tha it is inh par .
we can sen a bat of can to the gpu , whi eva - ate all of the and ret the cos .
we cho a det - min sam str ove sto sam bec it all mor pre and the inc the spe of lik eva .
evi pro ( ep )
a var of eff can cau the mod - bas sea to fai .
one pro is tha fas mot cau sig mo - tio blu .
add , occ can cau the est of the sta of hid par to dri .
add , the lik fun has rid tha are dif to nav .
we the - for pro a dat - dri pro tha ide pro - ing loc for bod par in ord to nd lik pos .
the thr ste in thi pro are ( i ) to ide pos - ble bod par loc fro the cur ran ima , ( ii ) to upd the bod con x giv pos cor - den bet mes ver and par det and ( iii ) to det the bes sub of suc cor .
123 . 123 bod par det
we con the ve bod par hea , lef han , rig han , lef foo and rig foo .
the 123 wor loc of the par acc to the cur con x of the bod are den as pi , i ( 123 , .
not tha we rep the par by sin ver on the sur mes of the bod , suc tha all pi are det fun of x .
the dat - dri det of bod par we des in the fol den as pj , j ( 123 , .
, j ) , whe j n can be an arb num dep on the par det .
act bod par as wel as the det hav a cla ass ci , cj to ( hea , han , f oot ) .
we obt the bod par det usi the alg des in ( 123 ) .
the det are pro by a two in the rst ste ext poi on the rec sur mes are det fro the ran mea - sur zt to for a set of dis int poi .
dis - cri tra cla are app to pat cen - ter on the poi to det to wha bod par cla the bel to .
if the cla is suf con , the fea - tur is rep as a det ( see ( 123 ) for det ) .
123 . 123 pro inv kin
we now den a pro mod , vis in fig .
123 , con of the var vt , xt , vt1 , xt1 and pj .
as - sum a cor bet bod par i and det j , we app the obs mod
pj n ( pi ( x ) , o ) .
we wou now lik to cal a map est of xt and vt con on xt1 and pj .
thi is dif bec the int var pi is a hea non - lin fun of x .
in ord to com pi ( x ) we mus det the wor coo w ( x ) , whi inc the abs ori of eac bod par .
the we tra pi fro its loc in the mes to its nal loc in the wor .
to tac thi pro , we obs tha xt is a det - ist fun of vt and xt1
the , we can rew pi as a non - lin fun pi ( vt , xt1 , vt1 ) .
our app wil be to lin the fun pi .
bec the dis p ( vt| vt1 ) is a lin gau , lin pi res in a lin gau net app .
map inf on thi mod is eas , so we can det an est of arg ( vt| xt1 , vt1 , pj ) .
we lin abo thi est - mat and rep the pro unt con .
the are man way to lin pi .
we app the un - sce tra whi is use in the uns kal lte in a sim sit .
the bas app is to com - put sig poi fro the pri dis on vt , app the non - lin fun to the , and the app the res wit a lin gau .
we omi the mat det , but it can be sho tha thi met pro an est of the dis tha is mor acc tha lin - ear thr cal an ana jac .
to sum , giv a kno cor bet a poi in the ima and a poi in the mes , we can per app map inf usi the alg jus de - scr .
the alg is rel to exi met for in - ver kin usi non - lin lea squ , exc tha it per lin usi the uns tra , and it adm pri dis on the var .
fig 123
dyn mod for the int of bod par det -
is spu , and if not , whi spe bod par it is ass - cia wit , con by the bod par cla of the det - tio .
thi res in a lar num of pos com - tio .
con eac suc com , whi req per hil - cli , wou be far too tim con for a rea - tim sys .
we the pru det tha are nea any par loc in x bes .
thi per uni heu is bas on the obs tha dis de - tec are nee mos whe the hil cli app has los tra .
whe suc a los has occ , it is hop the the dis alg wil det a par far fro the loc of any par in x bes .
whe the hil cli al - gor is doi wel , the par det wil be nea the loc in x bes and the can be ign .
we pru det nea any par in x bes bec the par cla can oft con cla .
the nex ste is to exp the det int a set of con cor .
a can - did cor ( ( pi , pj ) ) is cre for eac bod par to all det wit a mat cla , tha is ci = cj .
for ins , a cor is cre for the rig han to all han det .
at thi poi , we hav a con lis of pos cor - spo fro whi we mus cho a sub .
we ap - pro thi pro in a gre fas .
we ite thr eac pos cor , and app evi pro - gat , ini fro x bes to nd a new pos mod
upd x bes by loc hil - cli on the lik
ext par det fro zt
123 . 123 dat ass and inf
pru hyp tha are alr exp
we now giv the ent alg for det xt fro xt1 and zt .
in thi sec , we onl ass we are giv a set of par det and the est bod par cla , ( pj , cj ) .
the alg beg wit an ini gue x bes set to xt1 , whi is rep imp by int
the alg beg by upd x bes wit the est fro pro by hil - cli as des in sec .
par det are the ext fro the mea zt .
in the , we hav to dec for eac det whe it
pro set of cor ( ( pi , pj ) ) by exp hy -
loo i = 123 to n
( a ) let x be the pos mod of evi pro
ini fro x bes con on ci
( b ) upd x by loc hil - cli on lik ( c ) if lik of x > x bes , set x bes to xc
fig 123
tra alg .
hc + ep
exp pro ( ep ) hil cli ( hc ) our app ( hc+ )
ave err of gro tru rec err red of our app ( hc+ ) w . r . t
tes seq id
fig 123
tra res on rea - wor tes seq , sor fro mos com ( lef ) to lea com ( rig ) .
x whi inc the cur cor onl .
ep thu all us to mak a big jum in the sta spa .
we the res loc hil - cli fro x to ren it .
if the nal lik is bet tha x bes , x bes is rep wit the pos fou .
whe thi occ , the can cor - den is con to be acc .
the onl eff of thi on the sub ite of the alg is thr its upd of x bes .
the cor is not inc dur sub sta of ep , so tha sub , pos - bly bet , cor can ove ear one .
we hav obs tha thi alg suc rej inc - rec cor bec the sta res fro the inc wil be pen by the lik fun .
gpu - acc imp
sev tec det ena the efc eva of mor tha 123 123 can per sec on the gpu .
the mai con are to max par and to min upl and dow lar amo of dat .
the mes is ini sim usi qua edg dec and upl to the gpu alo wit the par ass for eac ver .
we use a cus ski ver - tex sha tha all us to sim upl the tra - tio mat for the ent con in ord to ren the ent bod , wit tra any oth dat .
an - oth sha cal the mea ray len ( sin the z - buf has lim pre ) and imp the act cos fun as des abo .
bec iss ope - tio to the gpu inv a cer lat , we pro a bat of can sim .
we ren a gri of can til on a sin tex .
thi tex is the com aga the obs in par for eac til .
by ens tha the dim of the gri are a pow of two , we can exp the bui - in fun of the gpu to gen a mip - map tex .
a mip - map tex is one whi con ver of its at pro low res , eac cal by ave pix at hig
res .
by rea a par mip - map lev , we can dir rea out the ave cos of eac can , one per pix , whi is the min amo of dat we can tra bac to the cpu .
the des alg was ful imp in c++ and eva on rea seq .
the goa of thi exp - men eva is to sho tha
our pro sys is abl to est the pos and con of a hum ove tim usi onl a str of dep ima ,
pro can usi ep on det bod par sig imp per ove jus doi lo -
the smo ene fun ( eq .
123 ) out the
typ use pix - wis ene fun , and
the sys run clo to rea - tim at 123 fra per sec -
to thi end , we hav cre a sop tes dat set , tha all qua ana of the tra per - for .
the dat set , whi is ava ope as a ben alo wit our res ( 123 ) , con of 123 rea - wor dep - ima seq of var com ran fro sho seq wit sin - lim mot to lon seq inc fas kic , swi , sel - occ and ful - bod rot .
our den of com - ple , tho sub , inc wit the len of the seq , amo of occ , spe of mot , num of bod par mov sim , and rot abo the ver axi .
the dep ima str is col usi a swi sr1 tim - of - fli cam , whi was set to rec ful - fra inf int ima and dep at 123 fps and a res of 123 123 pix , whi we sub - sam to 123 123 pix in ord to tak adv of the gpu mor eff .
in add to the str of dep im -
abs tra err
ave err , hc ave err , hc+ max err , hc max err , hc+
fig 123
a typ sit in whi dat - dri evi is cru for tra suc ( exc fro seq .
lef : thr exe fra fro the ten seq .
mod - bas sea ( top row ) los tra of the ten swi , sin the arm was occ .
our com tra tha int bot - up evi abo bod par ( bot row ) is abl to rec the fas mov arm .
the rig dia sho the sam sit in ter of act tra err ( see tex ) .
age , we rec the loc of 123 mar att to the sub bod usi a com act mar mot cap sys .
the mea mar loc ser as the gro tru in our err met .
con , we con - sid the fol eva met
max = max ||m mi| ,
whe m is the num of vis mot - cap mar , mi are the tru 123 loc and mi are the cor 123 loc on the est sur mes of the tra per .
thr vis ins , we fou tha ind mar err ||m mi| of 123 or low can be int - pre as per tra mar , sin thi cor to the app acc of the rec gro tru dat .
on the oth han , mar err of 123 or lar can be int as tra fai .
in ord to eva the eff of the com of mod - bas and dat - dri app , we sho the res of two alg in add to our pro alg - rit on thi ext dat .
the alg lab ep con of our ove alg wit loc hil - cli
rem .
it sim pro mod det by ep , and kee the one wit hig lik .
the alg la - bel hc con of jus the mod - bas hil - cli al - gor alo .
we not tha the mes mod for all alg - rit was pro sem - aut usi a cyb las sca .
the joi loc wer det usi the sca alg ( 123 ) .
fig 123 sho num res on our dat set for all thr alg .
in the top pan , we sho the err of all alg .
the res sho tha the dat - dri met in iso ( ep ) per far wor tha the oth two ap - pro .
bec of the hig err of the dat - dri al - gor alo , in the rem plo we onl con the mod - bas alg and the com alg .
in the bot pan , we vis the dif in err bet the com app ( hc+ ) and the mod - bas ap - pro ( hc ) .
in all the seq , the com app per bes or equ wel .
it is int to not tha on the har seq ( lef sid ) , the dif in per is mor pro .
to ana thi in mor det , we con a cha exc fro seq 123 fas , par occ ten -
nis swi as vis in the lef pan in fig .
the rig pan in thi gur sho the tra of the err - met com - par the mod - bas and com alg on the ex - cer .
in the beg , the swi arm bec com - ple occ , fol by mov swi for .
the max mea ( max err in the dia ) rev tha onc the hil - cli tra los tra , it nev rec .
our com app is abl to aga nd the mod and con - tin .
the lef pan in fig . 123 ill thi usi thr tra fra fro the seq .
the top row ill tha the mod - bas alg com los the arm , whe our alg is abl to nd the arm aft an oc - clu and cat the tra edg of the ten ser .
the gur als ill thr gre lin fro the det bod par the ass tha the alg con , and how thi ena it to use evi pro to pul its bac on tra .
fin , we als com the eff of lik smo on the per of the alg .
we fou tha the smo lik imp the per in ter of ave err acr all seq and fra by abo 123 per for the mod bas alg and 123 per - cen for the com alg .
the fac tha it hel the com app mor may be a res of the fac tha the rei is not alw clo eno to reg tra wit the non - smo lik fun .
in ter of efc , bot alg are clo , tho the hil - cli app is mor efc .
the mod - bas alg ran at abo 123 fra per sec , whe the com alg ran at 123 fra per sec .
con and fut wor
the amb goa of acc rea - tim tra of hu - man and oth art bod is one tha has ent res for man yea due to the lar num of use - ful app .
wit the hyb , gpu - acc lte app int in thi pap , we bel to hav mad a lar ste for , but the rem mor cha to ove .
som exa inc clu sce , tra - ing mor tha one per at a tim , imp the spe fur - the , and ful aut mod ini .
mor , it wou be int to int tra ima mod - iti suc as col cam or to app the dev tec - nol to ste vis set .
ack .
thi wor was sup by nsf ( iss 123 ) , mur ( n12 ) , and the boe com .
