gam the pro a the bas for def rat - nal beh in mul - age sce .
how , the com - tat com of fin equ in lar gam has lim gam the pra app .
in thi pap , we exp the app of str pro mod to mul - age sce .
we def mul - age inf di - agr ( mai ) , whi rep gam in a way tha all us to tak adv of ind rel amo var .
thi rep all us to def a not of str rel : d is str rel to d if , to opt the dec rul at d , the dec mak nee to kno the dec rul at d .
we pro a sou and com - ple gra cri for det str rel .
we the sho how str rel , whi is mad exp by the mai str , can be exp in alg for com equ to obt exp sav in cer cla of gam .
gam the ( fud & tir 123 ) pro a mat - ema fra for det wha beh is ra - tio for age int wit eac oth in a par obs env .
how , the com com - ple of fin equ in gam has hin the ap - pli of gam the to rea - wor pro .
mos alg - rit for fin equ ope on the str for of a gam , who siz is typ exp in the siz of the gam tre ( mck & mcl 123 ) .
eve alg tha ope dir on the gam tre ( rom 123 kol , meg , &vo ste 123 ) are not a sol , as for gam inv man dec , the gam tre can be pro lar .
as an ext cas , if the gam tre is sym ( i . e . , all pat to lea hav the sam seq of dec ) , the num of lea nod is exp in the num of dec .
thi pro of sta spa exp als occ in dec - sio tre , the sin - age ver of gam tre .
inf dia ( ids ) ( how & mat 123 ) all sin - age dec pro to be rep and sol wit - out thi exp blo - up .
lik bay net ( pea
*no at goo inc .
cop 123 , ame ass for art int - gen ( www . aaa . org ) .
all rig res .
123 ) , inf dia rep the con ind - pen amo var .
the for all us to tak adv of the str in rea - wor pro to sol the mor eff .
in thi pap , we pre an ex - ten of inf dia to the mul - age set , wit the goa of pro com rep and mor ef - fic sol alg for gam - the pro .
mul - age inf dia ( mai ) rep dec - sio pro inv mul age in a str way .
we sho tha mai all us to exp not onl the dep - den bet the pro att in the dom ( as in bay net ) , but als the dep be - twe str var .
we def a not of str rel : a dec var d str rel on an - oth dec var dt whe , to opt the dec rul in d , the dec - mak age nee to kno the de - cis rul in dt .
we pro a gra - bas cri , whi we cal s - rea , for str rel , and sho tha it is sou and com in the sam sen tha d - sep is sou and com for pro dep .
we als pro a pol tim alg for com s -
the not of str rel all us to def a dat str we cal the rel gra - - a dir gra tha ind whe one dec var in the mai rel on ano .
we the sho tha thi dat str can be exp to pro mor eff alg for com equ : it all a lar gam to be bro up int sev sma gam , who equ can be com to obt a glo equ .
we wil int mai usi a sim two - age sce -
exa i ali is con bui a pat beh her hou , and the pat wou be mor val to her if she cou get a cle vie of the oce .
unf , the is a tre in her nei bob yar tha blo her vie .
bei som uns , ali con poi bob s tre , whi mig cau it to bec sic .
bob can tel whe ali has poi his tre , but he can tel if the tre is get sic , and he has the opt of cal in a tre doc ( at som cos ) .
the att of a tre doc red
the cha tha the tre wil die dur the com win .
mea , ali mus mak a dec abo bui her pat bef the wea get too col .
whe she mak thi dec , she kno whe a tre doc has com , but she can obs the hea of the tre dir .
a mai for thi sce is sho in fig 123
fig l : mai for the tre kil exa .
ali dec - sio and uti var are in dar gra and bob in lig
to def a mai mor for , we beg wit a set . a of age .
the wor in whi the age act is rep by the set c of cha var , and a set 123 of dec var - abl for eac age a e a .
cha var cor to mov by nat , and are rep in the dia as ova .
the dec var for age a are var who val a get to cho , and are rep as rec in the dia .
we use d to den ua1 123 , and 123 ) to de - not c to 123
eac var v e 123 has a fin set dom ( v ) of pos val , cal its dom .
the age uti fun - tio are spe usi uti var : for eac age a 123 . a , we hav a set / . / a of uti var , rep as dia in the dia , tha tak on rea num as
a mai def a dir acy gra wit its var - abl as the nod , whe eac var x is ass wit a set of par pa ( x ) c 123
not tha uti var can be par of oth var .
for eac cha var - abl x 123 c , the mai spe a con pro dis ( cpd ) : a dis pr ( x i pa ) for eac in - sta pa of pa ( x ) .
for a dec var d 123 123 , pa ( d ) is the set of var who val age a kno whe he cho a val for d .
thu , the cho age a mak for d can be con onl on the var .
the val of a uti var u is a det fun of the val of pa ( u ) ; we use u ( pa ) to den the uti - ity val for nod u whe pa ( u ) = pa .
for eac uti var u e h , f spe , for eac ins pa of pa ( u ) , the cor uti val f ( u ) ( pa ) , whi abb usi u ( pa ) .
the tot uti tha an age a de - riv fro an ins of 123 is the sum of the uti spe by the uti var in ha for thi ins .
thu , by bre an age uti fun int sev
var , we are sim def an add dec of the age uti fun ( how & mat 123 kee & rai 123 ) .
the beh of the age is def by a set of dec
def 123 a dec rul for a dec var d is a fun tha map eac ins pa of pa ( d ) to a pro - abi dis ove dom ( d ) .
an ass of dec rul to eve dec d e 123 for a par age a e . a is cal a str .
an ass a of dec rul to eve dec d 123 123 is cal a str pro .
a par str pro ac is an ass of dec rul to a sub e of 123
we wil als use ( re to den the res of a to e , and cr - e to den the res of a to var not in e .
not tha a dec rul has exa the sam for as a cpd .
thu , if we hav a mai . at , the a par str pro a tha ass dec rul to a set e of dec var ind a new mai . a12 ( tr ) whe the ele of e hav bec cha var .
tha is , eac d e g cor to a cha var in . a12 ( or ) wit tr ( d ) as its cpd .
whe a ass a dec rul to eve dec var - abl in . a12 , the ind mai is sim a bn : it has no mor dec var .
thi bn def a joi pro dis p ~ ove all the var in . a12
wit thi pro dis , we can now wri an tha age a exp to rec in a
equ for the uti
. a12 if the age pla a giv str pro tr :
eua ( a ) = ~ ~ u ( pa ) p ~ - m ( pa )
pa1 x pa ( u )
whe x pa ( u ) is the joi dom of pa ( u ) .
in the gam - the fra , we typ con a str pro to rep rat beh if it is a nas equ ( nas 123 ) .
int , a str pro is nas equ if no age has an inc to dev fro the str spe for him by the pro , as lon as the oth age do not dev fro the spe str .
def 123 a str pro cr is a nas equ for a mai . a12 if for all age a e , 123 and all str a " ell ( o ) eua ( ( 123 o " ) ) .
mai and gam
a mai pro a com rep of a sce tha can als be rep as a gam in str or ex - ten for .
in thi sec , we dis how to con a mai int an ext - for gam .
we als sho how , onc we hav fou an equ str pro for a mai , we can con it int a beh str pro for the ext for gam .
the wor " nod " in thi sec ref sol to a nod in the tre , as dis fro the nod in the mai .
we use a str ext of a con of ( pea 123 ) for con an inf dia int dec tre .
the bas ide is to con a tre wit spl for dec and cha nod in the mai .
we nee to spl on a cha var bef its val is obs by
som dec nod we nee onl spl on cha var - abl tha are obs at som poi in the pro .
mor pre , the set of var inc in our gam tre is g = 123 : ) u ud ~ v pa ( d ) .
we beg by def a tot ord - ~ ove g tha is con wit the top ord of the mai : if the is a dir pat fro x to y , the x - g y .
our tre 123 " is a sym tre , wit eac pat con spl ove all the var in g in the ord def by - - ~ .
eac nod is lab wit a par ins ins ( n ) of g , in the obv way .
for eac age a , the nod cor to var d e d , are dec nod for a; the oth nod are all cha nod .
to def the inf set , con two dec nod m and m ~ tha cor to a var d .
we pla m and m int the sam inf set if and onl if ins ( m ) and ins ( m ) ass the sam val to pa ( d ) .
to det the pro for the cha nod , we mus do pro inf .
it tur out tha we can cho an arb ful mix str pro a for our mai . hi ( one whe no dec has pro zer ) , and do inf in the bn 123 ( a ) ind by thi str - egy pro .
con a cha nod n cor to a cha var c .
for eac val e e dom ( c ) , let nc be the chi of n cor to the cho c = c .
the we def the pro of goi fro n to nc as p ~ a ( ins ( nc ) ) ins ( n ) ) .
not tha if we spl on a dec - sio var d bef g , the the dec rul ad doe not aff thi com bec ins ( n ) inc val for d and all its par .
if we spl on d aft c , the d can - not be an anc of c in the mai , and ins ( n ) can spe evi on d or any of its des .
the , ad can aff the com .
hen , the pro of the cha nod are wel - def .
we def the pay at the lea by com a dis - but ove the par of the uti nod , giv an ins - tia of g .
for a lea n , the pay for age a is :
ued / , , pae x pa ( u )
the map bet mai and tre als ind an obv map bet str pro in the dif rep .
a mai str pro spe a pro - bil dis ove dom ( d ) for eac pai ( d , pa ) , whe pa is an ins of pa ( d ) .
the inf set in the gam tre cor one - to - one wit the pai , and a beh str in the gam tre is a map fro inf - mat set to pro dis .
cle the two are
bas on thi con , we can now sta the fol -
ing equ lem : lem 123 let 123 be a mai and 123 " be its cor gam tre .
the for any str pro a , the pay vec for a in 123 is the sam as the pay vec for a in t .
the num of nod in 123 " is exp in the num of dec var , and in the num of cha var tha are obs dur the cou of the gam .
whi thi blo is una in a tre rep , it can be qui
sig in cer gam .
thu , a mai can be exp - tia sma tha the ext gam it cor to .
exa 123 sup a roa is bei bui fro nor to sou thr und lan , and n age hav pur - cha plo of lan alo the roa .
as the roa rea eac age plo , the age nee to cho wha to bui on his lan .
his uti dep on wha he bui , on som pri inf abo the sui of his lan for var - iou pur , and on wha is bui nor , sou , and acr the roa fro his lan .
the age can obs wha has alr bee bui imm to the nor of his lan ( on bot sid of the roa ) , but he can obs fur nor nor can he obs wha wil be bui acr fro his lan or sou of it .
the mai rep
is ver com .
the are n cha nod , cor to the pri inf abo eac age lan , and n dec var .
eac de - cis var has at mos thr par : the age pri inf , ati , and the two dec reg the two plo to the nor of the age lan .
thu , the siz of the mai is lin in n .
con , any gam tre for thi sit mus spl on eac of the n cha nod and eac of the n dec , lea to a rep tha is exp in
a mai rep
is not alw mor com .
if the gam tre is nat asy , a nai mai rep - sen can be exp lar tha the tre .
we ret to thi pro in sec .
to tak adv of the ind str in a mai , we wou lik to fin a glo equ thr a ser of rel sim loc com .
the dif is tha in ord to det the opt dec rul for a sin - gle dec var , we usu nee to kno the dec rul for som oth var .
in exa 123 , whe ali is dec whe to poi the tre , she nee to com the exp uti of her two alt .
how , the pro of the tre dyi dep on the pro of bob cal a tre doc if he obs tha the tre is sic .
thu , we nee to kno the dec rul for cal to det the opt dec rul for poi .
in suc sit , we wil say tha poi ( str ) rel on cal , or tha cal is rel - eva to poi .
on the oth han , cal doe not rel on poi .
bob get to obs whe the tre is sic , and tre is con ind - den of poi giv tre , so the dec rul for poi is not rel to bob dec .
we wil now for thi int dis of str -
gic rel .
sup we hav a str pro , and we wou lik to fin a dec rul for a sin dec var - abl d e 123 ~ tha max as exp uti , ass the res of the str pro rem fix .
def 123 let ~ be a dec rul for a var d in a mai 123
the ~ is opt for a str pro a if , in the ind mai ad ( a - d ) ( whe the onl rem dec nod is d ) , the str pro ( ~ ) is a nas equ .
giv thi def of opt for a str pro ,
we can now def str rel .
def 123 a dec var d str rel on a dec var d in a mai 123 if the are two str pro a and a ~ suc tha a and tr ~ dif onl at d ~ , but som dec rul for d is opt for cr and not for a
if d doe not rel on d ~ , the a dec rul for d tha is opt for a str pro a is als opt for any str pro a tha dif fro a onl at d
it tur out tha str rel cor to a sim - ple gra - the pro in a mai .
to beg wit , sup - pos we hav a str pro a for a mai 123 , and con - sid fin an opt dec rul for d in 123 ( a - o ) , whe d is the onl dec nod .
the opt of the dec rul at d dep onl on the uti nod / 123 tha are des of d in the mai .
the oth uti nod are irr , bec the dec at d can inf the .
now , bas on the ind pro imp by the gra str , we can pro the fol lem :
lem 123 let 123 be a dec rul for a dec var d e 123 in a mai 123 , and let a be a str pro for 123
the ~ is opt for a if and onl if for eve ins - ati pad of pa ( d ) whe pm ( pad ) > o , the pro dis ~ ( d ( pa ) is :
ueu pa u e x pa ( u )
so to be opt for a str pro a , a dec rul
jus has to sat equ 123
if the exp bei max - miz in equ 123 is ind of the dec rul tha a ass to ano dec var d ~ , the d doe not rel on d .
thu , we wou lik a gra cri for de - tec whe thi exp is ind of the dec rul for som nod .
the app for not tur out to be tha of a req pro nod .
def 123 let 123 ( and y be set of var in the di - rec acy gra def by a bn or mai .
the a nod z is a req pro nod for the que p ( x i y ) the exi two fun p12 and pz tha ass cpd to all the nod in the gra , suc tha p12 and p12 dif onl at z , but ( xly ) p12 ( x i y ) int , the dec rul at d ~ is onl rel to d if d ( vie as a cha nod ) is a rel pro nod for p ( ud i d , pa ( d ) ) .
gei et al .
( 123 ) pro a gra cri for tes - ing whe a nod z is a req pro nod for a que p ( x i y ) .
we add to z a new " dum " par 123 who val cor to cpd for z , sel fro som set of pos cpd .
the z is a req pro nod for p ( x i y ) if and onl if z can inf x giv y .
thi con can eas be che usi the sta not of act pat in the bn .
thu , z is a req pro
nod for p ( x i 123 ) if and onl if the wou be an act pat fro a new par of z to x , giv y .
bas on thi ana , we can def s - rea , a gra cri for det str rel .
not tha unl d - sep in bay net , s - rea is not nec a sym rel .
def 123 a nod d ~ is s - rea fro a nod d in a mai if the is som uti nod u e ud suc tha if a new par d ~ wer add to d ~ , the wou be an act pat fro d ~ to pa ( u ) giv pa ( d ) u ( d ) .
as we now sho , s - rea
is sou and com for str rel in the sam sen tha d - sep is sou and com for ind in bay net .
the 123 ( sou ) if d and d ~ are two dec nod in a mai and d is not s - rea fro d in the mai , the d doe not rel on d .
the 123 ( com ) if a nod d is s - rea fro a nod d in a mai , the the is som mai wit the sam gra str in whi d rel on d
as for bns , the com res is som wea : s - rea doe not imp rel in eve mai .
we can cho the pro and uti in the mai in suc a way tha the inf of one dec rul on an - oth doe not man its .
how , s - rea is the mos pre gra cri we can use " it wil not ide - tif a str rel unl tha rel act exi in som mai tha has the giv gra str .
our pro of thi the inv con an app ass - men of cpd and uti fun to the mai , and de - pen on the com pro in ( gei , ver , & pea
sin str rel is a bin rel , we can rep - res it as a dir gra .
as we sho bel , thi gra tur out to be ext use .
def 123 the rel gra for a mai 123 is a gra who nod are the dec nod of . m , and who edg are the pai of nod ( d , d ~ ) suc tha d rel on d
the gra for a giv mai , we nee to det , for eac dec nod d , the set of nod d tha are s - rea fro d .
usi an alg suc as sha bay - bal ( sha 123 ) , we can fin thi set for any giv d in tim lin in the num of nod in the mai .
by rep the alg for eac d , we can de - riv the rel gra in tim qua in the num of
it is int to con the rel gra of var sim gam .
in the exa in fig 123 , the dec nod d bel to age a , and d bel to age b .
exa ( a ) rep a per - inf gam .
sin age b can obs the val of d , he doe not nee to kno the dec - sio rul for d in ord to eva his opt .
thu , d doe not rel on d .
on the oth han , age a can ob - ser d ~ whe she mak dec d , and d ~ is rel to as uti , so d rel on dq exa ( b ) rep a gam whe the age do not hav per inf : age b can obs d whe mak dec d .
how , the
the alg is a gen of exi bac in - duc alg for dec tre and per inf gam ( zer 123 ) and for inf dia ( jen , jen , & dit 123 ) .
the bas ide is as fol : in ord to opt the dec rul for d , we nee to kno the dec rul for all dec d ~ tha are rel for d .
for exa , the rel gra for the tro kil ex - amp ( fig 123 ( a ) ) sho tha to opt poi , we mus fir dec on the dec rul for bui and tre .
how , we can opt tre wit - out kno the dec rul for eit of the oth de - cis var .
hav dec on the dec rul for tre , we can now opt bui and the fi -
fig 123 : rel gra for ( a ) the tre kil exa ( b ) the roa exa wit n =
in thi sim cas , the rel gra is acy , all - ing us to pro the var one at a tim .
in gen , how , we mig hav cyc in the rel gra e . g . , fig 123 ( b ) con the rel gra for the roa exa - ple wit n = 123
her , we can seq opt in - div dec , bec at var poi in the pro , the is no dec nod tha onl rel on dec for whi we hav alr obt a dec rul .
how , we can per a bac ind pro ove sub def 123 a set s of nod in a dir gra is a str con com ( scc ) if for eve pai nod d ~ d e s , the exi a dir pat fro d to d ~ .
a max scc is an scc tha is not a str sub of any oth scc .
the max scc are out in fig 123 ( b ) .
we can fin the max scc of a gra in lin tim , con - ing a com gra who nod are the max scc of the rel gra .
the is an edg fro com c to com c ~ in the com gra if and onl if the is an edg fro som ele of c to som ele of c ~ in the rel gra .
the com gra is alw acy ( cor , lei , & riv 123 ) .
thu , we can def an ord c12 , . . .
, cm ove the max scc of the rel gra , suc tha whe i < j , no ele of cj rel on any ele of ci .
fig 123 : fiv sim mai ( top ) , and the rel gra ( bot ) .
a two - col dia rep a pai uti nod , one for eac age , wit the sam par .
inf is " per eno " : the uti for b doe not dep on d dir , but onl on the cha nod , whi b can obs .
hen d ~ doe not rel on d .
exa ( c ) and ( d ) rep sce whe the age mov sim , and thu nei can obs the oth mov .
in ( c ) , eac age uti nod is inf by bot dec , so d rel on d ~ and d ~ rel on d .
thu , the rel gra is cyc .
in ( d ) , how , the rel - eva gra is acy des the fac tha the age mov sim .
the dif her is tha age a no lon car wha age b doe , bec her uti is not inf by bs dec .
in gra ter , the is no act pat fro d ~ to as uti nod giv d .
one mig con tha a dec nod d ~ nev rel on a dec nod d whe d is obs by d ~ , but the sit is mor sub .
con exa ( e ) , whi rep - res a sim car gam : age a obs a car , and dec whe to bet ( d ) ; age b obs onl age as bet , and dec whe to bet ( d ~ ) ; the uti of bot de - pen on the bet and the val of the car .
eve tho age b obs the act dec in d , he nee to kno the dec rul for d in ord to kno wha the val of d tel him abo the cha nod .
thu , d ~ rel on d; ind , whe d is obs , the is an act pat fro d tha run thr the cha nod to the uti nod .
usi div &
the com of a nas equ for a gam is ar - gua the key com tas in gam the .
in thi sec , we sho how the str of the mai can be ex - plo to pro sub fas alg for fin
the key ins beh our alg is the use of the rel gra to bre up the tas of fin an equ - riu int a ser of sub , eac ove a muc sma gam .
sin alg for fin equ gam hav com tha is sup in the num of lev in the gam tre , bre the gam int sma gam wil sig imp the com of fin a glo equ .
bas on thi def , we can now pro a div -
and - con alg for com nas equ 123 let ~ r be an arb ful mix str pro
let 123 - be a par str pro for c ( m - 123 tha is
for = 123 thr - 123 :
nas equ in . hal / cri - - c ( m - i )
123 out ~ rr ~ as an equ of . m
= ( o " ( 123 ) )
the alg ite bac ove the scc , fin
an equ str pro for eac scc in the mai ind by the pre sel dec rul ( wit ar - bit dec rul for som dec tha are not rel - van for thi scc ) .
fin the equ in thi ind mai req the use of a sub for fin equ - ria in gam .
we sim con the ind mai int a gam tre , as des in sec , and use a sta gam - sol alg ( mck & mcl 123 ) .
if the rel gra is acy , eac scc con of a sin nod , so eac dec is opt by its .
in thi cas , the alg is ver sim to the sta bac ind alg in per inf gam .
how , we obt acy rel gra in a wid ran of sit - ati .
for exa , the rel gra of the tre kil exa is acy , alt the gam doe not hav per
the pro tha thi alg is cor req a se - que of lem .
so far we hav con str rel - eva onl as a bin rel bet nod .
sup 123 is a dec rul for d12 tha is opt for a str pro a , and d12 rel on nei d12 nor d12
the cha ~ z at eit d12 or d12 doe not aff the opt of 123
but one mig wor tha cha ( r at bot d12 and d12 mig cau 123 to los opt .
the fol lem sho tha suc a thi can hap : if we hav a set of dec non of whi are ind rel , the the ent set is not lem 123 let ~ r be a str pro , d be a dec nod , and 123 be a dec rul for d tha is opt for ~ r .
if ~ rr is ano str pro suc tha cr ( d ) - - or ( d ) whe d rel on dr , the 123 is als opt for ~ r
pro : we pro by ind on the num k of nod whe ~ r and cr ~ dif .
for the bas cas , k = 123 and cr = cr so it is obv tha 123 is als opt for crr .
now as an ind - tiv hyp , ass the lem hol whe ~ z and a dif on exa k nod .
the sup cr and ar dif on k + 123 nod .
sel any nod d suc tha ~ r ( d ) ~ cr ( d ) .
by the con of the lem , thi mea d doe not rel on dr .
now con a str pro 123
tha agr wit ~ r on all nod but dr , and agr wit ~ rr on dr .
bec ~ r and # dif onl on d , 123 mus als be opt for 123 oth - erw d wou rel on dr .
but 123 " and crr dif on onl k nod , so by the ind hyp , 123 is opt for ar as
thu , we can cha the dec rul for a who set of nod tha are irr for d wit aff the opt -
ity of a dec rul for d .
but in our div and con alg , we are con wit the opt of a par - tia str pro 123 - for an ent set c of dec nod .
cle , if non of the dec nod in c rel on a nod d ~ ~ c , the cha the dec rul for d wou not giv . any age an inc to dev at a sin dec nod in c .
but mig an age wan to dev at sev dec nod sim ?
we can ans thi que in the neg if we mak the sta ass of per rec : age nev for the pre act or obs .
mor for :
def 123 an age a has per rec wit res to a tot ord - 123 ove 123 if for all d ) dr e 123 , , d - - 123 d
tha d e pa ( d ) and pa ( d ) c pa ( d ) .
not tha if d and its par are par of d ~ , the the can be an act pat fro a new par / 123 of d to any des of d , giv dr and pa ( dr ) .
thu , by the - rem 123 , dr doe not rel on d .
thi obs lea to the
lem 123 if an age has per rec wit res to a tot ord - ~ , and 123 - . < d ~ , the d ~ doe not rel on d .
we can now sho tha if a sin age has no inc to dev at a sin dec nod , the he has no inc to dev at any gro of nod .
lem 123 let . a12 be a mai wit a sin age a , who has per rec let ~ r be a str for a in . hd suc tha for eve d e 123 , ~ r ( d ) is opt for cr .
the crb a nas equ in . h12
pro : to sho tha cr is a nas equ , we mus sho tha for all oth str ~ # :
we pro by ind on the num k of dec whe a and ar dif .
if k = 123 , the cr = a , so obv - ous eua ( ~ r ) = eu ~ ( cry ) .
as an ind hyp , sup tha whe ~ rr dif fro cr on k or few nod ,
now sup ( 123 dif fro er on k + 123 nod .
sin has per rec , lem 123 tel us the is a tot ord - . < ove 123 suc tha whe d - 123 dr , d doe not rel on d .
let d* be the las dec in thi ord suc tha ( rr ( d* ) 123 ~ ( r ( d* ) .
tha is , if crr ( d ) ~ r ( d ) , the d = d* or d - 123 d* .
in eit cas , d* doe not rel on d .
let 123 = a ( d ) , and 123 = at ( d ) .
we are giv tha is opt for cr .
but sin ar dif fro cr onl at nod tha d* doe not rel on , we kno by lem 123 tha 123 is als opt for ~ rr .
in par , 123 yie at lea as muc exp uti as 123 in . m ( 123 " % . )
eua ( c / _d , , 123 ) >_ eua ( a )
tth not of nas equ in the sin age cas re - duc to the sim not of the age act opt und
but the str ( fit . , 123 ) dif fro a at onl k dec nod , so by the ind hyp :
eua ( ( 123 ) > eua ( a_o . , 123 )
so by tra :
eua ( a ) _> eua t )
giv thi res , we can sho tha cha the dec rul for nod tha are not rel to any nod in a set c doe not aff the opt of a par str pro ove lem 123 let a be a str pro for a mai . all whe eve age has per rec , and let r be a par str pro for a set 123 of dec nod in . m .
sup t is a nas equ in . m ( a - c ) , and e is a set of dec nod in m ( dis fro c ) suc tha no nod in c rel on any nod in 123
the if a is ano str pro tha dif fro a onl on 123 , t is als a nas equ in
pro : for eac age a , let ca = c fq 123 .
if ca # 123 , let ta be the res of r to ca , and 123 - _a be the res of t to t12 \ ca .
by the def of a nas equ , it suf to sho tha in the ind mai . m ( a ~ _c ) , no age a has an inc to dev fro ra to ano str ra , ass the oth age adh to t .
in oth wor , we mus sho tha ta is a nas equ in the ind sin - age in - flu dia . m ( al_ , t - a ) .
con an arb dec d e ca .
we are giv tha r is an equ in . m ( a - c ) , so the dec rul ra ( d ) is opt for ( a - c , r ) .
we are als giv tha ( r dif fro a onl at nod tha are irr for d .
so by lem 123 , ~ - a ( d ) is als opt for ( a ~ _c , t ) .
thi is equ to say tha ta ( d ) is opt for the str ta in . m ( a ~ _c , ~ - _a ) .
sin eve ta ( d ) is opt for ta , lem 123 imp tha ta is a nas equ .
rec tha our alg pro a str pro atm .
lem 123 imp tha for eac scc c in the rel gra , the par str pro tha am spe for c is a nas equ in . m jam ) .
thu , no age has an inc to dev fro am on the nod wit any sin scc .
we now pro a lem tha gen lem 123 , sho tha in fac , no age has an inc to dev fro am on any gro of nod .
lem 123 let . h12 be a mai whe eve age has per rec , and let c12 , . . .
, cm be set of dec nod in . m suc tha whe i < j , no ele of cd rel on any ele of ci .
lf a is a str pro for jt1 suc tha for eac i e ( 123 , m ) , ac , is a nas equ in . aa ( a - c , ) , the a is a nas equ for m .
pro : we mus sho tha for any age a and any alt - nat str tr ~ for i ) a , eua ( a ) _> eua ( a - a , a ~ ) .
pro by ind on the num of set ci whe aa and dif .
the bas cas is whe the dif on zer set the aa = aa and eua ( a ) eua ( a , a ~ a ) .
as an ind
hyp , sup tha whe a or few set , eua ( a ) _> eua ( a - a , a ) .
dif fro aa on k
now sup aa
dif fro aa on k + 123 set .
for eac set ci , let ci , a = cif ) a .
let cj be the las set in the ord whe the par str pro aa ( cj , a ) and er ~ ( cj , a ) are dif .
let " ca = aa ( cj , a ) , and r ~ = a ~ ( cj , a ) .
sin a ( cj ) is an equ in . m ( a_c ) , we kno tha ra is an equ in . m ( a - a , ( aa ) - cj ) .
but a ~ dif fro aa onl on set ci whe i < j , and no nod in cj rel on any nod in the set .
so by lem 123 , " ca is als an equ in . m ( a - a , ( a ) - cj ) .
in par , ra yie at lea as muc exp uti as q - ~ in . m ( a - a , ( a ~ ) - c ~ ) .
eux ~ ( a - a , ( a ~ ) - c ~ , ~ - a ) > eua ( a - a ,
but ( ( aa ) _so , dif fer fro m aa on onl k s ets .
so by the ind hyp :
eum ( a ) > eum ( a - a ,
so by tra :
eua ( a ) > eu ~ ( a - a , cr ~ ) .
usi thi lem , we can fin pro the cor of
the 123 if . m is a mai whe eve age has per rec , the the str pro crm der by the alg abo is a nas equ for . &t .
pro : con any scc c ( m - i ) , whe < i < m . by con , ai+ ~ ass to c ( m - i ) a par str pro - fil t tha is a nas equ in a / / ( _c ( ~ _o ) .
bec ( m - i ) dec as i inc fro one ite of the alg to the nex , am dif fro ai onl on scc cj whe j < ( m - i ) .
bec the ord of scc a top ord in the rel gra , no nod in c ( m - i ) rel on any nod in cj whe j < ( m - i ) .
the - for am agr wit ai on all nod tha are rel for any nod in c ( m - i ) .
so by lem 123 , t is a nas equ in . m ( . _c ( m_ , ) ) .
sin thi is tru for eve scc , lem 123 imp tha am is a nas equ in . m .
to dem the pot sav res fro our al - gor , we tri it on the roa exa .
as sho in the rel gra in fig 123 ( b ) , the dec for a giv plo rel on the dec abo the plo acr fro it and the plo dir to the sou .
how , it doe not rel on the dec abo the lan dir nor of it , bec thi de - cis is obs .
non of the oth dec aff thi age uti dir .
the scc in the rel gra all hav siz 123 : the cor to pai of dec abo plo tha are acr fro eac oth .
eve for sma val of n , it is inf
the roa exa wit sta gam - sol alg .
sup the cha and dec var eac hav thr pos val , cor to thr typ of bui .
the the gam tre cor to the roa mai has 123 ter nod .
sin eac age ( exc the fir can obs thr ter var , he has 123 inf set .
so the num of pos pur ( det ) str - gie for eac age is 123 , and the num of pur str pro for all n pla is ( 123 ) ( n - 123 ) ( 123 ) 123
in the sim - ple int cas , whe n = 123 , we obt a gam tre wit 123 ter nod , and sta sol alg wou nee to ope on a str - for gam mat wit abo 123 x 123 ent ( one for eac pur str pro ) .
num of plo of lan
div end con alg
fig 123 : per res for the roa exa .
fig 123 sho how our div - and - con alg per on the roa exa .
we con eac of the ind mai con dur the alg int a sma gam tre , and use the gam sol gam ( mck - elv , mcl , & tur 123 ) to sol it .
as exp , the tim req by our alg gro pol wit n .
thu , we can sol a roa mai wit 123 age ( cor - spo to a gam tre wit 123 ter nod ) in abo hou and 123 min .
and fut wor
we hav int a new for , mul - age inf dia ( mai ) , for mod mul - age sce wit imp inf .
mai all the con ind - pen str of a sce to be rep exp - lim the sta spa exp whi pla bot str - for and ext - for gam .
we hav als sho tha mai all us to def a qua gra - bas not tha rep str rel , and to ex - plo it as the bas for alg tha fin equ eff -
alt the pos of ext inf dia to mul - age sce was rec at lea fif yea ago ( sha 123 ) , the ide see to hav bee dor for som tim .
sur and gmy ( 123 ) hav use inf dia as a fra for lea in mul - age sys .
the foc of the wor is ver dif -
ent , and the do not con the com ben der fro the inf dia rep .
mil and kol ( 123 ) use mul - age inf dia as rep fra for rea abo age be - lie and dec .
how , the do not dea exp wit the con of a mai int a gam tre , and lea ope the que of how to fin equ .
nil and lau ( 123 ) hav don rel wor on lim mem - ory inf dia , or lim .
alt the men tha lim cou be app to mul - age sce , the onl con the use of lim to spe up inf in
mai are als rel to la mur ( 123 ) gam net - wor , whi inc bot pro and uti dep .
la mur def a not of str den , and als use it to bre up the gam int sep com .
how , his not of str is an und one , and thu doe not all as fin - gra a dec as the dir rel gra use in thi pap , nor the use of a bac ind pro for dec - sio tha are not str ind .
thi wor lea man int ope que .
fir , the is a gre dea of wor to be don in rel mai to exi con in gam the , par equ ref .
on the alg fro , the mos pre que is whe we can tak adv of ind str wit scc in the rel gra .
on the rep - res fro , it is imp to ext mai to dea wit asy sit , whe the dec to be mad and the inf ava dep on pre dec or cha mov .
gam tre rep suc asy in a nat way , whe in mai ( as in inf dia - gra and bns ) , a nai rep of an asy lea to unn blo .
we may be abl to avo the dif rep con - spe , as in ( bou et al .
123 smi , hol , & mat 123 ) , int the bes of the gam tre and mai rep .
in mai by exp
