ed nd ed ng ds ve di - ly ed on ta ng of nt es of a le pe .
er , ny al - ld ns re st ed by al ls in ch es of le es re ed to ch er in ex ys .
or am - le , in a ic er in , rs re ed to ch er ia on , nd re so ed to ir rs .
in is se , he el of ne ty ( e . g . , he ic of he er ) is of - en ed th he ls of ed es .
we se a al ss of ls or on nd ng in re - al ns at re ic es be - en ed es .
we ow ow to rn ch ls ly om ta .
we nt al ts on wo al ld ta ts .
ur ts in a ve as - on ng te at cy an be ly ed by ng al es .
ur go - hm ly es a ry al or , re ur ge ut ne ce ps us fy ed es , ch in rn lp us fy rs .
in an er - ed ng , ur ls ed nt rs th a ry al on , en or ce es at do ot ve ny es .
st ed nd ed ng ds me at ta es re nt nd ly ed ( id ) .
us on nd ng es ve en ed to rk on ch at ta , re ch ta ce is a x ed - th or of te al - es ( ee ( da et al . , 23 ) or a ey ) .
er , ny al - ld ta ts re ch er in re , ng in - es of le es at re ed to ch er .
er - xt is ne le , re eb es re ed by ks .
er le is a in of ic rs , re pa - rs re ed to ch er ia on , nd re so ed to ir rs .
he id on is ly ed or wo rs en by he me or or wo rs ed by on , ch re ly to ve he me ic .
ly , re as en a ng st in ng es or re ly ed ts .
al ks en es de a ue ce of or - on at as en ed ul or th on nd ng in he xt in ( ry nd en ,
3; rg , 23 ) .
ly , al ng th - ds pt to se ur ge ut ne ct to ch ns ut er , ed ts .
or le , we ld ke to te on ut he ic of a pa - to rs at it es .
se , in rn , ld te on to rs at ey te .
we ld so ke to se on ut s ic to lp us ch on ut he ch ea of s or , nd ut he cs of er rs en by at or .
al rs ve ed al on ds ng he es of is ce on ea .
le nd en ( 23 ) nt an ve on hm ch ly ts is ss ly , by ly ng ls to st es he er is nt ut , nd ng se ls to fy ed es .
ry nd ll ( 23 ) se an ve hm ed il - bs or he em of fy - ng eb es , e . g . , as ng to a ty nt or ot .
er , ne of se es es a le nt el of he ns en nt ed es .
ce ey re ed to de a ly du - al ch , re he ts of nt on ps or ms re ed ut a ng le .
in ng , he is so ar as en on ic ta , ch as rd - nt co - ce ( nn nd ha , 23 ) , nt ns ( hn nd ng , 23 ) , eb ks ( hn nd nn , 3; rg , 23 ) , nd ne on ta .
gs bs nd es al - hm ts he nk re to ne a ly in - ng ip en ub nd ty es , re a od ub ge ts to ny od es nd a od ty ge is ed to by ny od bs .
se es an be ed as al ng ds or ne or wo es of es ( e . g . , eb es , ts nd ds ) , th a le on en em ( e . g . , ks , rd ce ) .
er , we ld ke to el er es nt in ny al ld ns th le es of es nd ex ps en em .
or le , in a ie se he ce es ht be es , rs , rs , nd rs .
in - es of he me pe ay so be ly ed .
in a ic er se , a er is ed by ts et of ds nd ts ns to he rs it es ( as ll as to he rs ho te it ) .
we ld ke to fy , or ch in - ce pe , ub - ns ( or ts ) of es at re ar in th ir es nd ir ns to er
in is er , we se a al ss of ve ic ls or on nd ng in la - al ta .
he ey to ur ch is he se of a le ic el or he re se at es er - ns en es in he in .
ur rk ds on he rk of ic al ls ( ms ) of er nd er ( 23 ) at nd an ks to a al ng .
ms de a ge at ws us to re ic es en ed es in a nt ay .
in ar , we se it to ow en - es en he ss es of ed es , ro - ng a ed sm or ng on
ke ll ve ic ls , ur ls ac - te he re um en ly ed on nd ly ed ng .
us , we an rn om ta re me es ve a ss el nd er do ot .
we an so al th es re ne ( or re ) of he ce es es ot ve an ed ss te by ng a ew nt ss le to re - nt he ( ed ) er .
te at , in al od - ls , it is en le to nt he ta to a ng nd st et at re nt of ch er ce he in - ng nd st es ay be ed .
ng ve om ng to ct ng es is ry ly to er ks en es in he ng nd st et ta .
we nt is ty by ng a ve ng ng , re we se he st ta , it ut he ls , in he ng se .
ce , en if ll he ce es ve ed ss es , he ng se es ng th nt es .
we de an te em hm or ng ch ms th nt es om a al se .
is sk is te ex : ur ls ce a ex eb of es en he nt es of ll of he es in he ta , ng rd es le .
we de an nt te hm at es in - ly th he er of es , nd us an be ed to ge ta ts .
we nt al ts or ur ch on wo ns : a et of ic rs nd rs nd a se of es , rs nd rs .
ur on ts ow at he al on es a al st in cy .
ed to a ng sk , we ow at ur ds re le to it he al re nd nd nt rs en or ce es at do ot ve ny es .
23 ve ls or al ta ic on nd ng re en ed om a ve ve as a ty on sk .
ta es re ed to be nt nd ti - ly ed ( id ) es om a re el ri - in ng , a nt ss om le is ed th he ce to te ts er .
er es of an ce re en ed to be es
on .
ch ce gs to ly ne of
om a on ed th ts ss .
a le et ul el en ed or is on is he ve in he ve es el , he es of ch ce re ed to be ly nt en he ss le .
gh is ce as - on is en ic , is el as ss en to be st nd ve or on nd us - ng ss a de ge of ns ( da et al . , 3; an nd tz , 23 ) .
th on nd er - ng ve on of he rs of he ve es l; er , ng is ly re lt ue to he ce of nt es .
he id on de by se rd on nd ng ls is te in ch al do - ns , re nt es re ed to ch er , nd re re ly to be ed .
in is on , we be a ic el or on nd er - ng in al ns , re es re ed to ch er .
ur on es he rk of ba - ic al ls ( ms ) ( er nd er , 3; an et al . , 23 ) .
23 ic al ls a rm is a te or a ty on er a re - al se of a en ma .
it es ic ls or nt es of es , ng is - ic es en ed ts .
en a et of in - es nd ns en em , a rm es a nt ty on er he es of he es .
al ma .
a al ma es at -
is ed th a et of at - is so ed th a et
es nd ns of a et of ce es
ch pe .
ch pe of ed ry ns on th he pe to se he on as a et - ed on , se ue is he et of es " ! ed to an ce le , or an or # , #
le is he et of es in ch
we te ch
of ts st nt , ng us
he or as ed .
in in es , ns ht ve es of ir wn .
or le , he le on ht be ed th he te it - er , ch es he ng of he or in he ts .
we an ce an it pe ng to he on .
in is se , a on ct is lf ed to th of ts ts .
or le , if ne of he le ts is yl ep in es ce , is le ct ld be ed to he or ct yl ep nd he ie ct es ce .
by on , se ns re ny - to - ne .
it ll be ul to sh be -
% ) , nd on
es he et of ts in ch pe , he ns at ld en em , nd he es of he to te he
en ty es ( ch as &% ( ' * ) , +& - or . / 23 ( 23 es ( ch as 23 es or ll of he ts .
a on 23
he ts nd he ns .
we ll se 23 et of ts of pe ic el .
a ic al el : 23 of he al ma .
re ly , a rm is a em -
es a ty on er a et of ns
( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 )
re 23 : ( a ) el or db n; ( b ) el or ra n; ( c ) nt of ed rk or ra el .
te , ch is ed or nt ns 23
he re - lt of is on is a ic el er a et of om es ng to ll of he es of ll of he ts in he on .
we an ew a rm as a om - ct ay of ng a an rk or ny on er is ma .
a rm ts of a ve cy re , nd he rs ed th it , re is ed by ng th ch te
et of ts pa
he cy as he rm
( ms so ow
es ng ns of ns , ut we ve en to it se or ty of on . )
ch nt of
or a en on 23 ed an rk er he om es ts of he rm he ce of
, he rm re es an un - ds ly on ar - is ot le - is ly a et of om es , ne .
we ss is em by ng as ce on an ag - te on ( e . g . , de or an ) of he et of es of se es ( ee ow ) .
te at if
en ne
he ve rt of he rm es he ri - on of he el .
en a et of ts or an te , we an ne a al ty el by ng th it a al ty on ( pd ) .
or ch te
he pd ts he ce on he ue of he re - in he ed et -
we ve a pd at es of he ts is of he rm
he pd or
rk , or ry
is ed or .
us , he pd or
ny es in he rk .
es .
re re ny le es of re - on or to ow es on a et of es .
an us ce or al es is he de ag - te , ch es he st on ue of ts ar -
et he in of ch
re ly , er me le se ar - we sh to te to a le
or is as ws : we ne a on
or ch ; en a et of es or or he ue ch is he st
as he me in .
he ct of he de
, we se
on in is et .
he de or is ot ry ve to he bu - on of es of ts s; or le , it ot er - te en a ly ed nd a ly rm et of es at ve he me st nt ue .
an re - te at er ts he ue on is a ic de or .
in is se , we ll ne a et of is -
, ut he ct of he or is at
is a ed ge of se bu - is he cy of is ue .
we sh is or by ng
ns , re he ht of
an te le ed as ws .
he te le so es on al -
at ke on he ue
he ed ct .
be he er of es
en we ne
it is sy to fy at is or as ly
we te at is te an so be ed as a an - ed or de at es ne of ts ts ni - ly at om nd es on ts ue .
ne ng on - ce is at , ke in or ax , he ic el an be ed to ow ts on as a pd to le in - ly th he er of ts .
we ly se he te in a ng ry ee .
he st er es es of nt rs , th ch te ly ng he ue of ne of ts s; he ng er ts he re or nt rs of ts om he st er , nd so on .
( is on an so be ed to
it ls or ck of ce . )
es re he er of es is ot a er of # ; we 23 on nd ng ls we se he rm rk as he is of ur ls or al on nd ng .
as in he at ob - ic ve es , ur ch is ed on he se of a al le to nt he ss or he er .
is le is he rd ss le in he si - on sk .
as al , we al th he ng sk by ng a ew nt ss le .
us , or ch ty
as in at on nd ng , we ne he at - to nd on he ss le .
or ty , we se he ve es cy el or he er
ss we ve a ed te es : or ch te
, he ly nt of
te at we ve ly ed ss es or ty es .
we ct he es of on es to he ss es of he wo ed ty es .
us , or le , an te ch as it - er in he on
% ll nd on he ss es of
te at , as he ce in is se is le -
ed by on , no es re ry .
st in - ly , we so ow ct ce en ss es of ed es .
us , or le , we ld al - , or ce sa .
in is se , as he on is ny - to - ny , we se es , as ed ve .
ow a ce of . / 23 ( 23
23 ( a ) ws a le el or a ie et , ed om he et ie se ( db ) ( ww . db . om ) .
we ee at le is th a ss on ts wn , as ll as ng he on en es nd rs .
we ve en , in is se , ot to ve he te
it - er nd on he ss of es , ut ly of rs .
23 ( b ) ws a el or a in of ic rs nd rs , ed om he ra et ( al - um et al . , 23 ) ( ra . ng . om ) .
in is se , we ee at he es on ts wo ts of he me pe .
we ve en to ke he ss te of he ed er nd on he ss te of he ng er .
te at is cy rs ic at he pe el .
er , ll at is el is ly a te , ch is ed or ar ns to ce an ed k; ig .
23 ( c ) ws a nt of ch a rk .
if we do ot ve on es in he in , en is un - ed rk is ic , nd he rm es a nt ty el er he om es of he on .
( ee ( an et al . , 23 ) or re ls . )
we an so se nt le ls to nt ic ng .
er , or le , a in re we ve le nd es , nd a on en em at or - ds to a on ng a ie .
in is se , we ll ve a ss te ng ng he al ng en .
is at -
% , ng to he on , th he at - te ll nd on he er es of th . / 23 ( 23 nd &% ( ' * ) , +& - , ng ly to a wo - ed ng el .
er , ur ch is le gh to te a ch er el , e . g . , re we so ve er es of on , nd ps an re al el or es , ch as wn in ig .
ur ch ll ke ll of is on to on en ng he us -
23 ng he ls we ow ow ow we rn ur ls om ta .
ur in - ts of a al on of he ma , ne re ng pt he es of me or ll he ss es is en .
we an ew is ta as a le ge ga - ce of he el , th a ge er of ss - ng es .
te at we ot ew he ta as a et of de - nt es ng to he ts in he el .
in ur ng , we ly me at he re of ur nt le el is en , as ed in on 23 .
us , ur sk is er on .
23 er on in is se , we me at we re en he ic de - , nd ed ly te he rs , i . e . , he ds of he es .
a rd ch is to
se um od ( ml ) on , i . e . , to nd if we ad a te on 23
, he od nc - on as a ue al um .
he um od rs an be nd ry ly ly by ng oc - es in he ta .
ll at ll of he ts in he me ss re he me pd .
us , to te he er or
, we ly er ll ts of ss
, nd nt he er of es at ch on 23
nd ts ts ly ke .
se ts re wn as nt cs .
ee ( an et al . , 23 ) or ls .
he se of te ta is ly re om - in is se , he od on as le lo - al ma , nd no al od ts or ng he al um .
he on on ( em ) al - hm ( er et al . , 23 ) , es an ch or ng a al um of he od on .
rt -
or he rs , em es
he ng wo ps .
he e - ep es he on er he ed es en he ed ta nd he be he et of
ng om an al ss nt te of he rs .
ng ed er es , we te
om ch it an te he ed nt cs :
to te he or on er he en ri - es , we st un ce er he el .
he m - ep re - es he rs by ng he od th ct to he on ed in he e - ep .
23 ef on or e ep to rm he e ep , we ed to te he or is - on er he ed es en ur ta .
is ce is er he ed rk ed in on 23 .
we ot se is sk to te ce ks er he ts in he el , as ey re ll ed .
( in me es , he ed rk ay ve al ed ts at an be ed y; er , it ll ly in ne or re ge ed ts . ) in al , he ed rk an be ly ex , in - ng ny ts at re ed in us ys .
ur ts , he ks ve ns of ds of es . ) ct ce er se ks is ly im - al , so we st rt to te ce .
re is a de ty of on es or an et - ks .
or us ns ( me of ch re ed be - ow ) , we se to se ef on .
ef ga - on ( bp ) is a al ge ng hm ed by rl ( rl , 23 ) .
it is ed to ge to he or - ct al es or ch de ly or ly on - ed an ks .
er , al ts ( ur - hy nd ss , 23 ) ow at it en es in al
ks , nd en it es , he ls re a od ox - on to he ct rs .
( en bp es ot on - ge , he ls or me es an be ry te .
is ns ry ly in ur ts nd es ot af - ct ce of em . )
a ly ph , th a de
d; i . e . , if
or ch le
we de a ef ne of ne nt of bp , ng to ( hy nd ss , 23 ) or re ls .
er a an rk er me et of es ( ch in ur se ld be he es ) .
we st rt he ph to
nd ts ts .
wo es re ed if ey ve me le in on .
he pd of
nt he or ed by he
, , en is a on om he ns of se es to at es ur is ot ed
he ef on hm is ow ry le .
at ch on , ll he ly es ly nd es - ge to ll rs , as ws :
ns he es to be a or er
, we ve at
ur or on is en is a ng nt .
is a ( nt ) ng nt nd
in he ly ph .
et of es at re rs of at ny nt in he hm , ur al on ut
is ss is ed il he fs ge .
ve us he al bu - on er ch of he es in he ed rk .
se ls re ly at we ed or he on of he ed nt cs .
er ce , he
we te at ly bp es ot e; to le - te is em , we rt he em hm om al nt ng ts ( al es ) .
as ur ts in on 23 ow , is ch ks ll in ce .
23 ce on er ns ng he ng ns or ng a al el is ts ty to el es en ed es .
as ed in he on , we ld ke to te on ut ne ct to lp us ch ns ut er , ed ts .
ly , al rs ve ed a ss ng he es of is ce op - on ea .
le nd en ( 23 ) se an ra - ve on hm ch ds a er ed on a ly ed al ng t; he er es th se es nd re al es ( e . g . , he er of ed es of a en pe ) .
it en es is er on a st et re he se es re ed , ut he ss es re ot .
se es at re as - ed th gh ce re ly ed th he ed s; he on hm is en un , th he al on .
he ss ts al es .
he on cy is wn to ve ly as he ss es .
ry nd ll ( 23 ) se an on of is ea to he em of ng eb es , e . g . , as ng - ng to a ty nt or ot .
ey st in a er on a et of ed ts , nd se it to fy cu - ts in he st et .
to fy re ts in he st et , ey st ng he on of he st et es nd he al re of he st et .
as a ti - ng le , ey be a io re re ts a ge at ts to al er es , me of ch re ed as nt me es .
ir ch es to en - fy is ge as a nt ry ge , nd de at er es to ch it ts re so re ly to be tu - nt es .
ey ow at on cy es by ng he al re .
er of se es es a le nt el of he es en ed ts nd us ne nt on ps or ms ut a ng le .
ur ch es he ce op - on ct gh he ic es ed by he ed an rk er he es in ur do - in .
or le , in he ra in , ur rk ls ns en he cs of rs at te ch er .
us , ur fs ut he ic of ne er ll ce ur fs ut he ic of ts ed rs .
in al , ic ce ws gh ve hs in he un - ed rk , ng fs ut ne er to ce rs to ch it is ed ( ly or ly ) .
er , he se of ef on ts is ct ly .
by ng a al ge om ne ly to er in he ly ph rk , he hm es ur fs ut ne le to er es to ch it is di - ly ed .
we te is ty in he xt
is ng ce is ly ul in ur me - rk ue to he on of he em hm .
he em hm ts a ce of ls , ng he ba - es ed om he ef on hm to in a ew el .
ce , we ot ly se ur ic in - ce ss to ad he on in he al re , we en se he ts to ct a er as - er , ch in rn ws us to in en er ts , tc .
om a nt ve , we re ng he re in he st et ot ly to de er ns , ut so to rn a er er .
as we ow ow , is ro - ss ts in al ts in cy er he ns of em .
we te at is ng ty es ry ly in he ic rk , re it is so ed th ng ce es .
we ed ur od on he ra nd db ta ts .
he re of he ra et , nd he el we ed , re wn in ig .
23 ( b , c ) .
or ur ts , we ed a et of 23 rs om he ne rn - ng ry , ng th 23 of ir rs .
se rs re ed to en cs : ic ds , eu - al ks , nt ng , le ng , se - ed , nd ry .
rs & ns ( ac ) ve es ( nb )
re 23 : ( a ) on of on s; ( b ) ce on in p; ( c ) cy nt in em .
we ed he ty of ur hm to se he la - al re to id in on .
we ok ur re ta et , nd id he ns or ll ut a on of he rs .
we en ed ur el ed on ll of is ta , ng he ts se cs re ob - ed .
he ng el as ed to fy he ic or he st ts .
in ct , we re ng a pe of on , re he st et is so ed to in he el ( it ut he ss ls ) .
to te ow ur od ts om ng he al re , we ed ur nt od - ls ch ry in he nt of al on ey se .
he ne el es ot se al on at ll .
it is a rd al ve es el ( nb ) er he et of ds ( ag of ds el ) in he ct .
he ll el ( ac ) as wn in ig .
23 ( b ) ; it es se of th he rs nd ns .
he er wo ls re ts of ac : el a es ly he or or - on ( ng he on on om he el ) , nd el c ly ns .
ll ur ls re ed ng m; el nb as ed ng ct em nd he rs ng ur hm of on 23
we ed he ds or he rd es ng he ds in a ve es el at as ed ly on he ed on of he ta et .
ll ls re ed th he me ds .
we ed he ge of ed rs , ng om 3% to 3% .
or ch nt ge , we ed he on cy er ve om ng / st ts .
he ts re wn in ig .
ch nt is he ge of he cy on he ve ns , nd he or rs nd to he rd or .
as an be en , ng re al es ly es on cy .
th a nd c rm he ne el , nd he ed el ac es by ar he st cy .
he al ge ng of py ef on ( bp ) es he ss of ng he ce of fs or a ar ce to
as ed in on 23 ,
al ed rs .
on on , we ve me al om ts ds ne .
er , er he st on , is ef ll be ed to ct he ls of he rs it es , nd is ly to me re
ts ed es .
or le , se er es ev - ef ut he ic of ed nd a le ue , ng he ce in s
in he ng on , ed rs at te ( as ll as ed rs at es ) ll be ed to ct he ed ce ut he ic of
, nd so on .
to re is ct , we ne he ef te of he ic le of he ed rs er ry on of py ef on .
or ry on , we rt he on of es se ic an be ed th gh ce , i . e . , se ef or a le ic is ve a .
23 ( b ) ws al es of se ea - ts on a et th 3% ed rs .
he es ow bp ns ed in he st , rd nd ev - th on of em .
ch es ws a al se of he on of rs se cs we re nt in .
he cy on se gh - ce rs is ly nt er he ns nd 23 , 23 , nd 23 or he st , rd nd th on of em , ly .
py ef on is an on to he er - ce ed or he e ep of em .
gh py bp is ot ed to ge , in ur ts , it ly es to a on ch is od gh to ow em to ke ss .
ed , ig .
23 ( c ) ws at he si - on cy es or ry em on .
is g - re so es he ce nt ed om ng he ts of ve on , as ed in on 23
he es nd ns in he db se , nd he nt le el we ed , re wn in re wn in ig .
23 ( a ) ; he re te ly rs to a et of 23 ry es ( on , dy , .
te at rs nd rs ve st no ve es nd ce an - ot be ed ly ut ng ir la - ns .
we ed a et of is se at ns 23 es , 23 rs , nd 23 rs .
in ig .
23 , we ow wo le rs or ch ss , ng al st ce rs of he rs .
in al , rs or es st of es of re - ly of a ar re , me od nd ty .
or le , he st ie er wn an be ed as ic ls nd ns ms .
he nd er or - ds ly to on / re / ci - es .
el , he rs or rs nd rs re al in re , ce ey re ed by he ie es .
or le , he st er of rs ts ly of on
ts .
is rk as ed by nr ct 23 - 23 - c - 23 er as kb ro - am .
an al as so ed by a rd te
