is er es he em of ng nd ng ex ms th es of te nd us es .
is em is a lt ne , ly en he em cs re ic , ot ll ts of he em re ly ed , nd he rs re ct to se .
in is er , we se a ew ch to is sk , ed on he rk of id ic an ks ( bn ) .
se ls in th us ri - es ng he te of he em nd te ri - es ng te es ch as s; ey an el a ty of ts , ng st ts , nt rs , nd al ts .
we nt a el hm or ng in id ns , at ls th he es ed by is lt em .
we te ow he ng hm an be ed to ct ts in a ex em .
he ty nd on of he nt ra - on of al es , nd he ng ed or au - us ts at ol al ms , te he ed or st ne ng nd is of ex id ms ( e . g . , ( nn 23 ) nd ( th et al .
23 ) ) .
we nt to or he te of he em , ly ct al or , nd se he re .
ev - al es ve en ed or ng th is ob - em , ut ch as ts ns .
he al el - ed es or is nd ol er om om - al ty nd al ce ob - ms .
he ve ng ms at te is rk in he ai ty te me of se ob - s; er , he ck of on in he on , nd he es ed by he ng rk an ad em to rm ly en ed to ex em th us cs ( er , le , & de er ( ds . ) 23 ) .
in is er , we se a nt ch to is ob - em , re we el a ex id em as a ic an rk ( bn ) .
is el ly es a ty on er ed es of he ys - em te er me .
in is se , it is ar to he ry ul an er ( an 23 ) .
or ms th ar cs nd an se , he an er ro - es an nt ns or ng em te .
tu - ly , al - fe ms re fe th es , ny of
ht c 23 , an on or al li - ce ( ww . ai . rg ) .
ll ts ed .
ch re ed as te re es at an ro - ce us ps in em or .
id ns te a ch er ge of ms , ng ar cs nd te re es at ce em on .
ey an ly nt he se so - ed th he em on nd ts , as ll as he es of ts nd ir ts .
we st ow at ny ng ts of ic ls an be ed in he bn rk .
in ar - ar , we ow at ey ow a al ng of he on of er - er em cs ed in he al al ph ( cg ) rk of an nd as ( 23 ) .
in ct , a cg an be ed to de he on or an te bn el .
we so ow at ny ng es of es an be ed ly in he bn , ng st ts , er ft , nd ea -
re re al es to he se of al ba - ic ls , ch as ns , or lt on nd ag - is .
a bn is te el of he em .
ng is el , he te of he em , ng ts re es , is ed by ng a ty on er si - le em es en ll of he ts so ar .
is ef te on is an ct on of ur st le fs en ll of he le ce .
es in it he od of nt es of es , as ll as a on er he nt em rs .
in le , ny of he es at ve ed di - al es to is ng le es , ng of le us es , nd ss to er ft an be ed in a ic
of se , he ce sk at is ed or in - ng is ef te is a lt ne .
ke he se of a le an er , ng ch ms is ly in - le ce he er of es of se ms ws ly er me .
we nt a el hm at es is ty ng a on of al if - nt es .
we ow at is hm ds in ng a ry lt io on a ly ge em ( ne ng ve ks ) .
we ve at ur ch ll le ll to ly re ex ms .
is of id ms to nd ur on , we ll us on he is sk or a ss of ms al of al ac -
re 23 : he wo - nk em .
f es w; p es e; r es ce .
ng es , ch ve he rt of ls ( ly ds ) to nd en ks .
ch ns re ll - ed ng nd ph sm ( rg & pp 23 ) , re he ic or of he em is ed by id es nd id ow - es .
er , or le , a le wo - nk el , wn in re 23 ( a ) .
he el ts a em th wo ks at an ld ds , an et pe to nk 23 , wo et es , nd a on - ng pe en he ks .
he ge ks re ca - ve ts nd he ng es re ve el - ts .
is em is a nd er em th al
he al al ph ( cg ) rk of ( er - an & as 23 ) is a al on at es al ic ns en es , nd ro - es a re it on of he on en em rs nd he or es .
he cg or he wo - nk le is wn in re 23 ( b ) .
re , he es re he re nd ow - te es ed th he ks nd he es in he em .
al es in a cg re ed th nt er es nd al on ed om he cs of he ed ts .
ve nd on ts in - ce ic ns ng he em es , nd re , ne us al ns ch as a ct or se ty en he es ( de - ed by ) .
on he er nd , gy ge ts , ke ve nd ve ts , ce al re - ns en em es ( ed th a dt ) .
or le , ve ns om he ow - te le to he re le re ed th a t; is es a al on , i . e . , he ow - te ts he ve of he ng re le .
ny ms ve he ty at ey ve ly ly in he ce of a lt .
he ic ry of he em is en ed ts al ry .
in ch es , ts re es ed ly as ny pt ge in a er at es a on om
he al ry .
ce he al al ph de - es a et of ve ts on he em it an be ed to ct he ts of en us es in rs , e . g . , st ts .
by st , gs er - ly re ot ed fy er ft es , ch re he lt of al es in em rs at ac - te er me .
ic an ks a ic an rk ( bn ) is a al as - ic el or a ic em .
it es at he em te an be ed by a et of es , ed z .
ch of se es zi an be al - ed or te .
we se dt zt to te he te es in he te .
we on he us es to wo ub - ts : he et y z re es at re ts , i . e . , ir ue is wn to s; he ng et x re
he em is ed as ng in te me ps .
us , ch em le z as an on z t or ch me ce t .
a bn is a ct al en - on or he wo - me - ce al ty ri - on p t+ j zt .
it es th he on el nd he on el .
re ly , a bn is a ed ic ph , se es re om ri - es in wo ve me es : zt nd t+ .
he es in he ph nt he ct ce of a me t + le z t+ ch ch de is ed th a al ty on ( pd ) , at es he al ty el p z t+ .
he bn el is a ct ep - on or he wo - me - ce on ia he in .
we te at he on es or ny le re er - ed ly by he ue of he es in he nt nd us me ep .
is ov on es us to el ly ny es , ch as es , at in - ce ng - rm ns on he em te .
we rn to is ue ow .
le : p t+ j zt = qi p z t+
on ts te es rz t+
j rz t+
j rz t+
or he ic ks at we us on , we an ct on to a ry al ss of id ns he al ar an ( lg ) ls .
re , we we re at te es ot ve us ts .
we so re at he pd or a us le be a al ar an .
ly ng , in a ar an ce , he de is a ar on of ts ar - ts th an se , re he rs of he ar ce an nd on he te ts .
re re - ly , if a de x as us ts y; : : : ; yk nd te ts u , we ze ts pd ng am - rs ;; : : : ; ;k nd u or ry on u to he te ts u .
en p x j y; u is a an ri -
i= yi nd ce
on th a an u; pk
it is nt to te at , ut te es in he rk , is pe of bn es rd ar us - an cs .
ce , in is se , he bn is ly a al on of he rd cs ed in a an er , it ne at es in ce
re 23 : he wo - nk bn .
ns it .
in he ce of te ts , he el ts a re of ar ls , th he ix - es ed by he te es .
ns or is ur al is to nt a ic em , of he pe de - ed ve , as a bn .
it ns ut at we an se a cg or a em as a nt or he on of he bn .
we an nk of a cg as a ma or a em of ns ng he us em cs .
we sh wo es of cs in a cg : al cs re ed th a dt , as on - al cs re ot .
or ny le x th no ng al cs , he cg es an us nt on x as a on of ts es - rs .
or a le x th at st ne ng al rc , he cg es a al nt .
we te a bn re om a cg as ws : or ch de xi in he al al ph , we te x t nd x t+ to te he te of he le at wo ec - ve me ts .
( in ce , we ll ge es at re ed by ty ts in he cg . ) et xj be a de in he cg ch is a ct or of xi .
if he rc om xj to xi is on - al , we dd an rc om x t i nd an rc mx t+ to x t .
if he rc is al , .
is ss es we dd an rc ly om x t to te he re or a bn at ls he al or he em .
to x t+ j to x t+
we en nt to dd es at el ur ns nd nt he re es of he em .
ur me - rk es or a de ty of re es .
in ur on , we us on ee nt es : st es , nt es nd er ft es .
to te se , we ed to ke wo nt ad - ns to he cg ed bn .
ce ny er at
an ge st be ed in he bn , we dd es to el he ce es .
in ur on , se re es nd ot es , ce we ed to se a ve el .
we so ed to dd es ng to ce of st es nd he ce of nt es .
re 23 ws a bn ed by is ss .
he es ft nd ft ly dd ng ws nd is on as en ed by he ds or p nd p .
he es la - ed th m nd to ur ts of he ow rs in he em nd he te es ed th e te he ce of nt es .
or am - le , we ne he pd of m to be a al on nd f th ll ce en e is se , ut th a ch er ce en he e is ue .
he r es el he es in he em .
se ve te ts , d , at te he ce of ts .
ke he nt lt es , se lt es ve ar - ts in he us bn me ce .
is is ry to el nt ts ch as ts .
ch ce lt le es on ur es : le , lt , up nd ak .
en he em is le , he pd of he nd - ng r as ow se .
en a lt rs , re is a rp se in he ce of he ng r .
he wo ft ts ce a ll ft , ed as a ge of he rs us ue .
we ed he al on - on en he d es to ct he ct at ts t; ce a up ts in a pe it ds to ue .
in is on , we se an ce re or lt is nd on in ls ed as ns .
as we ve ed , we an ew ns as a ed on nd on of al an rs .
we re ld ur hm ng om he si - al an er hm .
al ns to is go - hm in le te es ut he te of he em .
at ch me ep ey te a et of di - te es nd ne ut ly es ed on vi - ce .
if he ct is ns in he te et , se ms ll ck he te of he em ly .
he em th is pe of ch is at it is ry lt to ne ch es to ep or om - ex ms : re re oo ny le ew es at ch me , nd he on ed to ne ay ad es en is ot ed il al me ps er he es re ed .
we nt a el ap - ch at es ar es to a le hy - is , en nt a el te ng go - hm at we se to ve ur ty to ly ce he er of es .
is ch ws us to al th ex re es nd es ng ny es .
ut it es ot le to ex ms at in - ve ny le es in nt ts .
we ss is em by ng ur es th a on od ed on he hm of en nd er ( 23 ) at ws he ng of ry ge ms .
ng nd ng ur ic an rk ts he te te of he em at ch me p; it es es or he us ts of he us te of he em ch as es or es , as ll as te ri - es ng le es .
is te el ws us to ce he ms of lt on nd di - is to he sk of ng ( or ng ) a ic dy - ic em .
he ng em is ed as ws .
as he em es , we et ns y; y; : : : .
at me t , ur st ed on of he te of he ys - em is ur or on p zt j y; : : : ; yt ut he nt em te en ll of ur ns so ar .
we ll is or on ur me t ef te , nd te it ng t .
he ty of a te lt ri - le in is ef te es to on ll of he ce up to he nt to ne he ty at is lt as ed .
in le , ng is a ry sy sk , ch an be
ed by he ng on la : =p t+ j +z tp t+ j zt re is a ng nt .
is ss is wn as a rd ss .
rd ng es he st te of he od of a lt en he ce so ar .
it ot , er , al th es re a lt is ry , ut se ct ef - ts re le so at ts ts me le to ur or ly er on .
he on is at , at he me at he ce es he ce of a us re , re is no er a le in he ef te at ts he ce of at re .
re is a le ng is nt at an er me ce , ut he rd ss ly ns fs ut es in he nt me ep .
to ly er ts of is pe , we ed to so on ds in me , om ur nt ce to he me ce re he lt ok ce .
is ss is wn as ng .
en ce y; : : : ; t+ , we te p zt j y; : : : ; t; : : : ; t+ .
he ng ss in - es a rd ss re ce om t + is ns - ed ds er he ng me es , ng ch of em .
we it ls or ck of ce .
ne se of us al ce is he se of ar ms .
se ms re ly us , th ar an ds .
in is se , t+ is a ar on of zt nd t+ is a ar on of t+ , th th me ed an se .
in is se , he ef te an be ed ly as a te an on er zt .
is is he is or an nt ng hm ed he an er ( an 23 ) ch ns is ef te in ed rm as he em es .
ly , en we ot ly he an er di - ly to al - fe ms , ce ny al - fe ms re ot ar ms .
he us ps be - en es re en ar nd he re es
of he em re en te , ng us es in em rs .
en he em is in - ar , he ef te is no er a te an , nd ly as a ct ed rm on .
er ur le wo - nk el .
re , we ve a ct of wo om es : he ow f is he ct of he re p nd he ce r .
a rd lu - on to is pe of em is to te he ar cs th ar cs , nd en se a rd in - ar an el .
us , we ry to et he st ma - on or he st nd nd ts , nd re he st .
he al od of ng is ed he ed an er ( ar - om & nn 23 ) ; it xi - es he ar on ng ts nd er or in ur se , he ar on is a ct , ch is ly le , us we an te ts st nd nd er ts in ed rm .
a ar re ic pe of ty is ed by te te es at ce he us em cs .
or le , a lt ht ly ge he al an or ce of a us le ch as he ce .
is pe of on is ed in ur el ia he ce of he us es x on he te lt es d .
is pe of el es al es or a ng hm .
to nd he es , et d; : : : ; dt be me ar on of he te es at me ; : : : ; t .
en is on , he dy - cs of he us es re , ce in , ar an .
ce , he me t ef te , ed on d; : : : ; dt , is a te an er xt .
he if - ty is at we ve ne ch an or ry le in - on d; : : : ; dt .
us , in er to do ct ng , we ed to in a te is or ry bi - on of he te es at ll es .
he er of ch es ws ly th he th of he ce , ch is ly le .
a al ng hm ch ls th is ob - em is ed in ( ar - om & nn 23 ) .
he in ea is to in ur ef te as a er et of es , ch of ch ds to a le ul - te an .
he hm , ed to ur ng , is as ws .
it is nt to ce he om ri - le h t , ch of se es ds to ne th - is .
he on of h t ds to he od of he is .
en he hm es he rd ss , it rs ll he ns of es of h t nd t+ .
he lt is a re th k dj ts .
ch of se ew es is ed on he ew ts t+ , nd ng an ng we st th he re ts nd he rs of he te ns .
he hm em es he hy - es at ve ow ty , nd ts ly he st ly es to be rt of he me t + ef te .
i ur ng , we so sh to in es or he er - nt te te es , ce he te of he em at me t + ds on se es at me t .
we re nt he ef te ng a le al el of he rm dt h t ! xt .
ly , we nt ur me
t ef te t as a re ht of k es , ch of ch is ed th a le te an xt j ht nd a te on dt j ht
he cy of is hm is at it ts me hy - es ly , le ly ng rs .
es , he es at re ed ll nd to os at re ll se to al or , nd re re ly te ar .
by st , he ed es en nd to a ri ly ts , at an ad to ry nt rs .
we re se a ew ch re ar es re ed .
ke he ng hm , we rt by ng he rd on ep , ng a et of le he - es h t; +; et ~ h t+ be om le se es nd to is er et of k dj es .
xt , he ts re ed , nd he lt is a re on t+ er h t; t+ nd t+ .
ur sk is to te he t + es om is re .
we ne a ew et of re ts h t+ , ch of ch es al of he es of ~ h t+ .
he go - hm by es a ng ix at is ly a ic pd p h t+ j h t; t+ .
is ng ix is ed to ne he ef te t+ , as a ed ge of he re ts :
+h t+ = x ~ h t+
p h t+ j ~ h t+ t+ ~ h t+
t+ j h t+ = x ~ h t+
p ~ h t+ j h t+ t+ j ~ h t+
ly , we ne t+ j h t; t+ to be he st an on ( i . e . , he an at as he me an nd es as he re ) to
p ~ h t+ p ~ h t+ j h +p t+ j ~ h t+ .
he in ng on is he ce of ch hy - es to se .
we se a dy ch , at es to on th he od of he nt hy - es nd ir ty to ch er .
we rt he if - nt es by ir od . 23 en , ng om he st ly is , we nd he st is to it , nd ge he wo .
te at he ed he - is ll ve er ty , so ll in at he op of he st .
en re re no es at re se gh , we ve to he xt st ly is in ur st .
en we ve ed ur ta of es , we ol - se ll he ng es to ne , ss of ow se ey re .
as ur ce re , we se he um of he wo ve es ( kl - es ) ( er & as 23 ) en he ns ed th he es .
we te at we ly do ot se he ts in ng he ce en s; se , we ld ly se ly es to ly es , en if ey re ly ry nt .
to ce pu me in ur on , we st ed ll es th ly ow ty ( ( id : 23 ) ) , nd en se he ng ch to se he st .
th is ng nd ng re ic th - s; ey ly se ce ed up to me t .
as is - ed ve , he ts of me es ve a ay , so a re at me t ay ot st lf in ce up to me t .
ce a ri re es re ly te ow , es ld ve ry ak rt in ur be - ef te .
us , by he me he ta ry to se he re re le , he re ck ay be st .
he us on to he em is to ck he ly he - es ed ot ly on st nd nt ce ut so on re e; i . e . , we nt to se ts ed er me nt of ng .
er , ng es at we st te a ef te rd in me , nd is is he ry em we re ng to ve .
we ak is le by ng a ly nt od of ng es .
ad of ng he es by ds we ys se he wo st ar ns il ur re is ll gh .
is ay ad to a re es - ve ng ce we do ot ve a nd on he al kl - ce en wo ns at we se .
we an rd to be re ve re ce we ll ot se he ts of ng to te ur us es , ut ly to de ur is on od .
it ns to ow ow we do he rd on ss ed or ng .
he ry ty is he ct ng of he us rt of ur ef te on .
he on is at er ng a re of ns , ng he on of ch nt ed ly on ce ve to he lt of he se is a on - al em .
ly , we re ly er - ed in ng a re ed or or he is le , ce ur in al is ly to fy he st ly es .
he us ts ll ly ck ly if we fy he ct es .
re , we te ng ly or he te es .
he ss is ow y; me at we se a ka - ad ow of me es ( us , he st on we et to ee is t + + ) .
he rd ge to me ep t + is ly he ty of +; : : : ; ++ en h t+ .
is ge es a or on er h t+ , ch an be ed ng rd ds .
we ow se ur ng ix to te he ct of is ew on on +l nd h +l ( id : 23 ) .
in ar , he es of ll he ts ch re ed to me t+ re ed by he ge in he il - ty of t+ .
is is so ly ng ce ll he ed ts re ar , we ld ge ir es by he me or .
he lt is a ge to me ep t + ( id : 23 ) , ch is ed in he me ay .
en he ss es at me ep t , we ve he ty p h t j y; : : : ; ++ , ch we an en se to er de ch es to te , as ll as ur ng hm .
we te , er , at he ts of ng ld be ed ly or ng he ma - on .
in er to id le - ng ce , it is ry nt to ue ur ng ng ur ed is ts th t .
ne of he ng ns of he hm is at it is le to te ll he le ns of he te es dt .
ly , or on - al ys - ms , is on is en ic .
he er of le ns of he te es dt ws ly th he er of te es in he em .
to al th is em , we ke an ch ed or te ms in ( en & er 23 ) .
he al ea is to ke se of he ct at ge ms re ly ed of ms , nd at , le he ms re ed , he on en em is en ot so ng .
re , it ht be le to ap - te ur fs ut he em ng te fs ut he ms , i . e . , ng a ef te re ey re nt .
te at is on is ry nt om ne at es he ns en he ys - ms .
as we do he on , he te of ne em an ce he te of r; ut we en le he ns ng om is on en we in - in ur fs ut he nt em te .
re ly , we on he em es to n nt ts , ng to he nt ms .
et di nd xi be he te nd us es in ub - em i , ly .
as or he se of a le em , we nt he ef te or ch em i as a re , ed ng a is le hi .
we so so - te th ch em a et of on es yi , ch re he es at re st nt to he em .
i er ch em i .
ce em i ay be ed ly by me er ms , we ot rm he ce ly in on de em i .
ad , we er he ex - ed em ch es em i , nd ll he es om er ms ch ce it .
ur al is to et a ef te t
en ur ef te on , it is le to de - be he on er he ed em as a ix - re of ns .
as in he le em se , we an ce ce ch es ur ty bu - on er te es as ll as er us ri - es .
te at nt ed ms ay er - ap , nd er ng nt ts to se ms we ay ve a nt on er he ed es .
we ze se es ng a ge - ng hm ed on ( en & er 23 ) .
as in rd on , we ly te he te es , ot he us es .
as a lt of is se , ll he te es re ed ng ll he nt on .
is is nt , as de ce an be nt in ng he li - od of he nt es .
it is so le to fy he ng hm to se he ed on of he ef te .
he ng is ne ly in ry em ng he me hm ( nd ng a ng ix or ry em ) .
he rd es re ed to te he is es of ch ne of he ms .
he in - on an be ed ds th he ng es .
he ly ce is at er is on ,
re 23 : ve nk em nd ts
we ed to te he te es of he ms , st ke in he rd ss .
we ed ur hm on a em ch ns ve wa - er ks , wn in re 23
he em ns ix on - es nd ve es , ch re ll ee rs , ut ly ee ts , ng it a ng ys - em to ck .
in on , he em ns he ee es of es ed in on : ts , ts nd re - nt rs , ch ng th ty : .
us , at ry me ep ry ce as 23 le re es ( le , lt , up , ak ) nd ch nt as 23 le re es .
ng ll he le il - es at me t + nd he nt es om me t , he em as le re es at ny nt in me , ng ny pe of ng ce ut me on of he em .
in ur ts we ed he em to ve ms , ce ns to ss ms de - ed oo ch ry .
ch nk as ed to be a em ( ee re 23 ) .
we ed ve es er em , th a ad of wo ps en ng ng .
we ed ur hm on a ed se - at t = , r ts to ce a ve ft .
at t = , we ce wo us nt
rs in he ts of f nd fo .
at t = , r ts , nd en ns to a dy te .
at t = r ts a ve ft .
at t = r ts nd en ns to al .
at t = r ts .
he ph in re 23 ws he ts of ng r ,
r nd r .
ly , at t = he ct of he ft in r as le .
he ng is ad a ob - ty of : , ut er ng he ty nt up to : .
as a lt ur hm ed is a ly is , nd pt it in he ef te .
at t = he ty of a ve ft nt om : to : af - er ng .
at is nt ur hm ly ed he ve ft , nd ed a ry gh ty or is nt il t = .
at is nt , re ng , ur hm ed wo es : a st in r ( ob - ty ) or he ce of he ve ft nd a nt re ( ty ) .
ng ed he ty of a st ( he ct is ) to .
he al es of r re ed th gh cy .
he nt of f de he ng of r a el - ly le em .
gs re ch re ed or r .
ot ly is re no ct nt of f , re is no nt at ll in em 23 ! re , ng r is a al ge .
ue to ck of ce we it he al rs , ut in is un ur hm de - ed he ft as on as it an .
( in er ns he de - on as es ed by 23 ps . ) it is so in - ng to ee he or of r ng he st .
ur hm ed he st , ut ce no ce is ed in em 23 it ld ot ck he ue ue of he st ly .
we an to ss is em in re rk by ng us on en he ys - ms as ll as te on .
or he ts es at t = , ur hm ed in st he me ay or he wo ts , so we rt on m ly .
re ng , ur hm ed wo es a st in r ( ty : ) or a nt lt nd a nt ve ft in r ( ty : ) .
er ng he ty of he ct is nt up to st .
we el at se ts te he er of ur al - hm , nd ts ty to ly se nd ck en a ex em th a ll er of ts .
ns nd re rk
in is er , we ed a ew ch or ng nd is of id ms .
we el se ms as ns , us ng he em of is to he ob - em of ng .
it is ot a se at ng id ys - ms is so a lt em .
in is er we us on a al ss of id ms : es at en me ar - ar nt to he te es ve ar dy - cs ( or an be ed th a ry on ) .
re , we us on ms at re ed of ev - al ly ng ms .
we ve at ny al - fe al ms ng to is ss of ms .
we nt a el ng hm or is ss of ms .
st , we se ar es ad of st ng he st ly es .
is ue ws us to se a ed ow ok - ad to he re .
we se re ns to st us in ng ch hy - es re he ly es nd ld be pt ve ed , nd ch re ss ly nd an be ed re ly .
ur al on is ng a
ay to id he al up , ed by ny is - te es in a me ce .
we do is by ng ly ut he nt ms , le ll pa - ng ns en em .
ur al ts th is ch re ry en - ng .
we ve ed it on a ry ge em ( ne th nt te es er me ce ) , th a ar - ly lt io .
ur hm nd st of he ts , ng at it an be ed to de le ck - ng nd is en or ry rd ms .
of se , we an to ct er ts in er ns .
we re ly ng on ng he on al - hm to ow us to te on en ub - ms ot ly or he te es ut or nu - us es as ll .
we ve at is ew re ll ly ve ur ng es , ly on ng es th ny ts .
we re so ng or ys to nd he hm be - nd he ly of al ar ms ( or ms ch an be ed as ch ) .
in ar , we pe to be le to le te en of us ts nd ly on - ar ce ls .
ly , we pe to ly ur hm on al - fe ap - ns nd ot st on ic ta .
we re ng le ns in he is in , ch as on - ng he ce of an ne , as ll as on in er ns , ch as al ng .
ts .
is ch as ed by an nr ng or rd nt er 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 nd by ro er he ri am , ed ch to nt ms , nt er 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 , nd by he an on .
