rt or es ve et th nt ss in us al - ld ng ks .
er , ke st ne ng ms , ey re ly ed ng a ly ed ng et ed in ce .
in ny gs , we so ve he on of ng ol - ed ve ng .
ad of ng a ly ed ng et , he er as ss to a ol of ed es nd an st he ls or me er of em .
we ce a ew hm or ng ve ng th rt or es , i . e . , an hm or ng ch es to st xt .
we de a al on or he hm ng he on of a on ce .
we nt al ts ng at ng ur ve ng od an ly ce he ed or ed ng es in th he rd ve nd ve gs .
ds : ve ng , ve ng , rt or es , ca - on , ce ck
in ny ed ng ks , ng es to te a ng et is me - ng nd y; us , ng ys to ze he er of ed es is al .
ly , he ng et is en to be a om ng of es .
ow - er , in ny es ve ng an be ed .
re , he er an ly se he ng ta .
it is ed at ng he er is ra ty ll ce he rs ed or ge es of ed ta .
ol - ed ve ng or on as ed by is nd le ( 23 ) .
he er as ss to a ol of ed ta nd an st he ue ss el or a in er of es in he ol .
in ny ns is is a le ch ce a ge ty of ed ta is ly le .
he in ue th ve ng is ng a ay to se od ts or es om he ol .
es of ns in ch ol - ed ve ng an be ed re : eb ng .
a eb - ed ny es to ch he eb or ar es of es ( e . g . , es ng ts of al ns ) .
it ys a er of le to nd - el me eb es so as to te a ng et or an ic
c ( id : 23 ) 23 on ng nd ne er .
ng nd er
er at ll ly be ed to fy he st of he eb .
ce an se is a ed ce , he ny es to ce he er of es he es ve to el .
er an ng es ly wn om he eb , he er ts ed es at it es ll be st ve
il ng .
he er es to te a ed ic nk il er .
in he ng se he ic er as ss to he rs st il es .
it ly gs up st il nd ks he er er he ed il is nk il or ot .
ed on he rs er it gs up er il nd es he er .
he ss is ed me er of es nd he lt is an il er ed to at ic on .
ce ck .
he er es to rt gh a se or te or ms ( es , es , tc . ) at re of al an ll ow it en i ee it pe of ch .
he er ys an em nd he er ls he er er he em is ng or ot .
ed on he rs er , he er gs up er em om he se .
er me er of es he er en ns a er of ms in he se at it es ll be of st to he
he st wo es ve on .
he al is to te a er at ks ll on en re es .
he rd le is an le of on ( ik , 23 ) .
he rs ce is ed on he ng es in he se er an a ly nt st et .
we nt a ew hm at ms ol - ed ve ng th rt or es ( ms ) .
we de al ns or ur ch to ng he es , er th al ts ng at ve ng th ms an ly ce he ed or ed ng es .
we ll se xt on as a ng le ut is er .
is is he sk of ng to ch re - ed ic a en xt nt gs .
xt on as an nt le to ay , ly th he nt on of ly le xt ta .
re ve en ny es to ve is al ( io , 23 , is et al . , 23 , ni , 23 ) .
re , it is so a in in ch ms ve wn le ss ( ms , 23 , is et al . , 23 ) nd it is of st to ee er ve ng an er er nt er is dy ly ve
he er of he er is ed as ws .
on 23 es he se of ms th in ms of on nd on .
on 23 en es he on of a on ce nd on 23 es al on or ee ds or ng ve ng th ms .
in on 23 we nt al ts or wo al - ld xt ns at te at ve ng an ly ce he ed or ed es in ce .
we de in on 23 th me on of he al ce of ur ts nd me ns or re rk .
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
re 23 : ( a ) a le ar rt or ne .
( b ) a vm ( ed ne ) nd a
ve vm ( id ne ) .
id es nt ed es .
rt or es
rt or es ( ik , 23 ) ve ng al ns nd nt al es .
ey ve en ed to ks ch as en it on , ct on , nd xt on .
23 ms or on we ll er ms in he ry on ng .
we re en ng ta ( 23 .
xn ) at re rs in me ce x rd .
we re so en ir ls ( 23 .
yn ) re yi ( 23 , 23 ) .
in ir st rm , ms re es at te he ng ta by a al in ( ee ig .
ll rs ng on ne de of he ne re ed as 23 , nd ll rs ng on he er de re ed as 23
he ng es at ie st to he ne re ed rt rs .
re ly , ms ow ne to ct he al ng ta in ce x to a er al re ce f ia a er el or k .
in er ds , we er he et of rs of he rm :
en k es rs on ( es , 23 ) we an te : k ( u , v ) = ( u ) ( v ) re : x f nd es an er ct .
we an en te f as :
f ( x ) = w ( x ) , re w =
us , by ng k we re ly ng he ng ta to a nt ( en er al ) re ce f .
he vm en es he is at nd to he al in ne in f .
by ng nt el ns we an
ng nd er
ly ct he ng ta om x to es f or ch es in f nd to re ex on es in he al ce x .
wo ly ed ls re he al el en by k ( u , v ) = ( u v + 23 ) p ch es al es of ee p in he al ce x 23 nd he al is on el k ( u , v ) = ( e ( uv ) ( uv ) ) ch es es by ng ed ns on ey ng es .
or he ty of is er we ll me at he us of he ng ta re rs re nt , i . e . , or ll ng es xi , ( id : 23 ) ( xi ) ( id : 23 ) = or me ed .
he ty ( id : 23 ) ( xi ) ( id : 23 ) is ys nt or al is on ls , nd so he on as no ct or is el .
or ( id : 23 ) ( xi ) ( id : 23 ) to be nt th he al ls we re at ( id : 23 ) xi ( id : 23 ) be nt .
it is le to ax is nt on ( xi ) nd we ll ss is at he nd of on 23
23 ms or on he us on ed in he rk of on .
re as a ed ng et of ta nd he sk as to te a er at ld ve od ce on en st ta .
in on to ar on , ms an so be ed or uc - on .
re we re st en a et of th ed nd ed ta .
he ng sk is to gn ls to he ed ta as ly as le .
ms an rm ns - on by ng he ne at es he in ve to th he ed nd ed ta .
ee re 3b or an le .
ly , ve ms ( ms ) ve en ed or xt on ( ms , 3b ) , ng me ts in on / ll en ce er ar ve ms .
on ce
en a et of ed ng ta nd a er el k , re is a et of es at te he ta in he ed re ce f .
we ll is et of nt es he on ce ( ll , 23 ) .
in er ds , is f is in on ce if or ry ng ce xi th el yi we ve at f ( xi ) > 23 if yi = 23 nd f ( xi ) < 23 if yi = 23
re ly : on 23 ur et of le es is en as :
f | f ( x ) =
re w w
re ur er ce w is ly al to f .
he on ce , v is en ed
v = ( f h | i ( 23 .
n ) if ( xi ) > 23 ) .
ce at ce h is a et of es , re is a on en it rs w nd es f in h .
us we ll ne v as :
v = ( w w | ( id : 23 ) w ( id : 23 ) = 23 , yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 23 , i = 23
we ve ot ed a as ht in eq .
us , he le an er ct ll ce es at ss gh he in .
er , a al el of ee ne es es at do ot ed to ss gh he in .
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
re 23 : ( a ) on ce ty .
he ce of he re ts it ht rs .
ch of he wo es ds to a ed ng ce .
ch ne ts he ea on he re in ch nt hy - es an ie .
re , he on ce is he ce nt of he re st to he ra .
( b ) an vm er in a on ce .
he rk em - ed re is he st us re se er es in he on ce nd se ce es ot ct th he es .
he er of he em - ed re ds to he vm , ts us is al to he in of he vm in f , nd he ng ts ng to he es at it es re he rt rs .
te at a on ce ly ts if he ng ta re ly le in he re ce .
us , we re ar ty of he ng ta in he re ce .
is on is ch ss sh an it ht at st em .
st , he re ce en as a ry gh on nd so in ny es it ts in he ta et ng ly le .
nd , as ed by we - or nd ni ( 23 ) , it is le to fy ny el so at he ta in he ew ed re ce is ly 23
re ts a ty en he re ce f nd he er ce w ( ik , 23 , ch et al . , 23 ) ch we ll ke ge of in he xt on : ts in f nd to es in w nd ce sa .
by on , ts in w nd to es in f .
he on nd he se is at ng a ng ce xi in he re ce ts he et of ng es to es at fy xi ly .
in ct , we an ow at he et 23
is is ne by ng or ll ng es xi : k ( xi , xi ) k ( xi , xi ) + re is a ve on nt .
is ly es he me ct as he ft in or on ( es nd ik , 23 ) ly ed in ms .
it ts he ng ta to be ly on - le in he al re ce .
ng nd er
of le ts w in w is ed to ie on ne de of a ne in w .
re ly , to ow at ts in f nd to es in w , se we re en a ew ng ce xi th el yi .
en ny ng ne st fy yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 23
ow , ad of ng w as he al or of a ne in f , nk of ( xi ) as ng he al or of a ne in w .
us yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 23 es a lf ce in w .
re w ( xi ) = 23 es a ne in w at ts as ne of he es to on ce v .
ce at he on ce is a ed on on he ce of a re in er ce .
ee re 3a or an le .
ms nd he ne at es he in in he re ce f .
ne ay
to se is on sk is as ws :
( id : 23 ) w ( id : 23 ) = 23
yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 23 i = 23
by ng he ns ( id : 23 ) w ( id : 23 ) = 23 nd yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 23 we se he on to ie in he on ce .
ow , we an ew he ve em as ng he nt w in he on ce at es he ce : ni ( yi ( w ( xi ) ) ) .
om he ty en re nd er ce , nd ce ( id : 23 ) ( xi ) ( id : 23 ) = , ch ( xi ) / is a it al or of a ne in er ce .
se of he ts yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 23 i = 23 .
n ch of se es it he on ce .
he on yi ( w ( xi ) ) an be
he ce en he nt w nd he ne th al or ( xi ) .
us , we nt to nd he nt w in he on ce at es he um ce to ny of he ng es .
at is , ms nd he er of he st us re se er an be ed in he on ce nd se ce es ot ct th he es ng to he ed es , as in re 3b .
he ls of he es at re ed by he al us re re he ( xi ) or ch he ce yi ( w ( xi ) ) is al .
ow , ng he al er an he al ew , nd ng w as he it al or of he vm nd ( xi ) as ts in re ce , we ee at he es at re ed by he al us re nd to he rt rs ( i . e . , he ed ts at re st to he vm ne ry ) .
he us of he re is he ce om he er of he re to ne of he ng es nd is en by yi ( w ( xi ) / ) re ( xi ) is a rt or .
ow , ng w as a it al or of he vm nd ( xi ) as ts in re ce , we ve at he ce yi ( w ( xi ) / ) is :
he ce en rt or ( xi ) nd he ne th al or w ,
ch is he in of he vm ed by .
us , he us of he re is al to he in of he vm .
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
ve ng
it is ed at in ol - ed ve ng we ve a ol of ed es .
he es x re ly nd ly ed ng to me ng on f ( x ) nd he ls re ed ng to me al on p ( y | x ) .
en an ed ol u , an ve er ( id : 23 ) as ee ts : ( f , q , x ) .
he st nt is a er , f : x ( 23 , 23 ) , ed on he nt et of ed ta x ( nd ly ed es in u oo ) .
he nd nt q ( x ) is he ng on at , en a nt ed et x , es ch ce in u to ry xt .
he ve er an rn a er f er ch ry ( ne ng ) or er me ed er of es .
he in ce en an ve er nd a ve er is he ng nt q .
is gs us to he ue of ow to se he xt ed ce to ry .
ar to ng et al .
( 23 ) , we se an ch at es ts so as to pt to ce he ze of he on ce as ch as le .
we ke a ic ch at ly es he xt ry ed on is on .
we so te at ia is a rd on ed in al on ng ms tz nd ge ( 23 ) , be ( 23 ) , an et al .
( 23 ) .
we ed wo re ns re we
on 23 ea ( v ) is he ce ea at he on ce v es on he er - re ( id : 23 ) w ( id : 23 ) = 23
on 23 en an ve er ( id : 23 ) , et vi te he on ce of ( id : 23 ) er i es ve en de .
ow , en he ( i + 23 ) th ry 23 , ne :
i = vi ( w w | ( w ( 23 ) ) > 23 ) , i = vi ( w w | + ( w ( 23 ) ) > 23 ) .
i nd v +
23 nd 23 ly .
i te he ng on es en he xt ry 23 is ed as
we sh to ce he on ce as st as le .
ly , ne od ay of ng is is to se a ry at es he on ce .
he ow ma ys at , or ny en er of es , he er at es ve es at es he on es is he er at es he um ed ze of he on ce , re he um is en er ll al ns of y en x :
ng nd er
ma 23 se we ve an ut ce x , te al re ce f ( ed ia a el k ) , nd er ce w .
se ve er ( id : 23 ) ys es es se ng es in er ce w es he ea of he nt on ce .
et ( id : 23 ) be ny er ve er .
te he on es of ( id : 23 ) nd ( id : 23 ) er i es i nd vi ly .
et p te he et of ll al ns of y en x .
i n+ up
i ) ) up
th ct ty er re ts a ry j ( 23 .
i ) by ( id : 23 ) at es ot ve on ce 23
he of is rd .
he er , ( id : 23 ) ys es to ry es at ve he on ce .
us ea ( v i ) no er at he ng of he ry ts re .
et r te he on of re ce f .
en r is so he on of he er ce w .
et sr te he ce ea of he it re of on r .
en , er ny al on p , ea ( v
23 ) = 23
i ) = sr / 3i .
ow , se ( id : 23 ) es ot ys ry an ce at es he ea of he on ce .
en er me er , k , of es ( id : 23 ) st es to ry a nt 23 at es ot ve he nt on ce vk .
et 23 ( 23 , 23 ) nd to he ng of 23 at ll se he er lf of he on ce to be en .
k ) nd so 23 = 23
te at
k ) = sr / 3k , so we ve at ea ( v
k ) > ea ( v +
k ) + ea ( v +
ut ss of ty me ea ( v
ow er he al on 23 :
k ) > sr / 23
23 ( 23 | x ) =
if x ( id : 23 ) = 23 if x = 23
en er is on , i > k ,
ce , i > k ,
i ) ) > up
ow , se w w is he it er or ng to he vm at we ld ve ed ad we wn he al ls of ll of he ta in he ol .
we ow at w st ie in ch of he on es 23 23 23 .
. , re vi es he on ce er i es .
us , by ng he ze of he on ce as ch as le th ch ry , we re ng as st as le he ce in ch w an ie .
ce , he vm at we rn om ur ed er of es ll ie se to w .
if ne is ng to me at re is a is ng in h at es he ta nd at he ng is is ic nd at he ta re se ee , en ng on ce es of an hm at es on ce an so be wn ( nd et al . , 23 ) .
or le ne an ow at he on or es ly th he er of es .
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
re 23 : ( a ) le in ll ry b .
( b ) le in ll ry a .
re 23 : ( a ) in in ll ry b .
he wo ms th ns m nd m+ or b re wn .
( b ) io in ll ry e .
he wo ms th ns m nd m+ or e re wn .
is on es on or an ch re we ry es at it he nt on ce to wo al ts as ch as le .
en an ed ce x om he ol , it is ot al to ly te he es of he ew on es v nd v + ( i . e . , he on es ed en x is ed as 23 nd 23 ly ) .
we xt nt ee ys of ng is re .
le in .
ll om on 23 at , en me ta ( 23 .
xi ) nd ls ( 23 .
yi ) , he vm it or wi ed om is ta is he er of he st re at an t de he nt on ce vi .
he on of wi in he on ce vi ly ds on he pe of he on vi , er it is en ly in he er of he on ce .
ow , we an st ch of he ed es x in he ol to ee ow se ir ng es in w me to he ly ed wi .
he er a ne in w is to he nt wi , he re ly it is ed in he on ce , nd he re it ts he on ce .
us we an ck he ed ce in he ol se ne
ng nd er
in w es st to he or wi .
or ch ed ce x , he st ce en ts ne in w nd he or wi is ly he ce en he re or ( x ) nd he ne wi in ch is ly ed by wi ( x ) | .
is ts in he al le : rn an vm on he ng ed ta nd se as he xt ce to ry he ce at es st to he ne in f .
re 3a ts an on .
in he ed re we ve ed ut he ce of he it ht or re at rs in re 3a .
he te ea is on ce vi ch is ed by id es ng to ed es .
he ve ed es nt ed es in he ol .
he le ts he st us re at an t in he on ce .
te at he es of he le do ot ch he id st as he rk re in 3b es ot et he es on he ce of he er re ( ey et re er he ce ) .
he ce b is st to he vm wi nd so we ll se to ry b .
in in .
he le in od an be a er gh on .
it es on he on at he on ce is ly ic nd at wi is ly ed .
it as en ed , th in ry nd ce , at se ns an il ly ( ch et al . , 23 ) .
ed , if we re ot ul we ay ly ry an ce se ne es ot en ct he on ce .
he in on is ed to me se ms to me ee .
en me ta ( 23 .
xi ) nd ls ( 23 .
yi ) , he vm it or wi is he er of he st re at an t de he nt on ce vi nd he us mi of he re is 23 to he ze of he in of wi .
we an se he us mi as an on of he ze of he on ce ( ik , 23 ) .
se we ve a te ed ce x in he ol .
we an te he ve ze of he ng on ce v by ng x as 23 , ng he vm ed om ng x to ur ed ng ta nd ng at he ze of ts in m .
we an rm a ar on or v + by ng x as ss 23 nd ng he ng vm to in in m+ .
ce we nt an al it of he on ce , we sh ea ( v ) nd ea ( v + ) to be ar .
ow , er in ( ea ( v ) , ea ( v + ) ) .
it ll be ll if ea ( v ) nd ea ( v + ) re ry nt .
us we ll er in ( m , m+ ) as an on nd we ll se to ry he x or ch is ty is st .
ce , he in ry hm is as ws : or ch ed ce x te he ns m nd m+ of he ms ed en we el x as 23 nd 23 y; en se to ry he ed ce or ch he ty in ( m , m+ ) is st .
es 3b nd 3a ow an le ng he le in nd in in
io in .
is od is ar in it to he in in od .
we se m nd m+ as ns of he es of v nd v + .
er , we ll ry to
to se on , ut ss of ty we ll me he he nt of ty is 23 , i . e . ,
he us is al to he in .
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
ke to nt he ct at he nt on ce vi ay be te ed nd or me x in he ol th m nd m+ ay be ll ly se of he pe of on ce .
us we ll ad ok at he ve es of m nd m+ nd se to ry he x or ch in ( m
m ) is st ( ee re 3b ) .
m+ , m+
he ve ee ds re ns to he ng nt at ys es on ce .
er ng me er of es we en rn a er by ng a vm th he ed es .
he in an be ed as an on of he on ce ze ve of er he re rs ve nt us .
us he on or he in nd io ds ll ds en ut he nt on he us of he ng re rs .
he le od an ll be ed en he ng re rs do ot ve nt us , ut he ng on no er ds ce he al in ne an no er be ed as he er of he st le re .
er , or he le od , ve ns ve ly en ed by ll et al .
( 23 ) at do ot re he nt on he us .
or ve ng , er ng me er of es we en rn a si - er by ng a vm th he ed es .
or ve ng , er ng me er of es we en rn a er by ng a ve vm th he ed nd ed es .
or ur al on of he ve ds we ed wo al - ld xt on ns : he rs - 23 ta et nd he ps ta et .
23 rs ta on ts
he rs - 23 ta 23 is a ly ed on of re es ed to nd - ed cs .
ch ws ry as en nd - ed th me er of ic ls ch as rn , at nd te ns .
te at me of he cs ap nd so me es ng to re an ne ry .
we ed he 23 es om he te it of he 23 nd , to ay le th us es , we ed he op en st ly ng cs .
we ed en nt ry rs , ne to sh ch ic .
ch nt as ed as a ed , df - ed rd cy or . 23 ch or ad it us .
a op st of on ds as ed nd ds ng in er an ee ts re so ed .
ng is on , he nt rs ad ut 23 ns .
we st ed he ee ng ds in he ve ng ng
st et ed of he 23 ts nt in he te st et .
ed om ww . ch . tt . om / is .
he rs - 23 on es th a et of ed ng nd st et ts .
he ly te it rs ut te es nd se ut a ed ic , nd en es er es as he ng et nd er es as he st et .
we ed ow ( um , 23 ) or xt ng .
ng nd er
ed ng et ze
ed ng et ze
re 23 : ( a ) ge st et cy er he en st ly ng cs en ng a ol ze of 23
( b ) ge st et on / ll en nt er he en st ly ng cs en ng a ol ze of 23
23 23 23 23 23 23
le 23 : ge st et cy er he op en st ly ng cs ( st nt ic st ) en ed th en ed ts .
ce es
or ch of he en cs we ed he ng ps .
we ed a ol of ed ta by ng 23 ts om he ng ta nd ng ir ls .
we en ly ed wo ts in he ol to ve as he al ed ng et .
ne nt as ut he ed ic , nd he er nt as ot ut he ic .
us we ve ch er 23 ed ts nd 23 ed ts .
er a ed er of es we ed ch er to rn a er ( an
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23
le 23 : ge st et on / ll en nt er he op en st ly ng cs ( st nt ic st ) en ed th en ed cu - ts .
ce es al ce .
vm th a al el of ee 23 ed on he ed ng ts ) .
we en ed he er on he nt st et .
he ve re as ed ty es or ch ic nd he ts re ed .
we ed he le in , in in nd io in ng ds as ll as a om le od .
he om le od ly an - ly es he xt ry nt om he ed ol .
is st od ts at ns in he ar ve ng he ng et is a om ng of
to re ce we ed wo cs :
st et on or nd , to ay le th us rs us ts , he on / ll en nt ( ms , 23 ) .
on is he ge of ts a er ls as nt at re ly nt .
ll is he ge of nt ts at re ed as nt by he er .
by ng he on ld on he vm we an de re - on or ll nd an in a on / ll ve or he st et .
he on / ll en nt is a ne er ry of is ph : it is he nt at ch on
es 3a nd 3b nt he ge st et cy nd on / ll en ts er he en cs as we ry he er of es ed .
he al ne is he ce el ed en he vm is ed on ll 23 ed ts ng he ol .
er he rs us , he ee ve ng ds rm st ly th le le ce to sh en em .
ch od so ly ms om ng .
es 23 nd 23 ow he st et cy nd en ce of he ve ds er ey ve ed or st ht ed es ( so , er th he al wo om es , ey ve en en ed es ) .
ey te at he ee ve ds rm ly on is
or vm nd ve vm ng we ed ht ms ( 3a ) .
ng nd er
ed ng et ze
ed ng et ze
re 23 : ( a ) ge st et cy er he en st ly ng cs en ng a ol ze of 23
( b ) ge st et on / ll en nt er he en st ly ng cs en ng a ol ze of 23
rs ta et er ht es , th he in nd io ng a ry ht ge in ce .
he st ns in ch le re of re st .
ey ow ly ow ny es ld be ed if we re to se om to ve he me el of ce as he io ve ng od .
in is ce , ve ng on ge es er ix es as ch ta to ve le ls of ce as he ve ng ds .
he es te at ve ng es re et th he nt es , ly en ng ce by he on / ll en nt .
is st on as so en ed re in us al ts ( um nd am , 23 ) .
we ed at ly lf of he es at he ve ng ds ed ed to rn ut to be ly ed , ss of he ue ll on of ve es in he in .
we ed er he ns at he ve ng ds ad er ar om ng re ue to is ed ng .
we ed a ew ng od ed om ch ld ly le an al er of ve nd ve es om he ol .
ly in ce he ty to ly le an al er of ve nd ve es ut ng to el an re ol of es st ay or ay ot be le ng on he in in on .
es 3a nd 3b ow he ge cy nd en nt of he om od ed th he io ve od nd ar om od on he rs et th a ol of 23 ed es .
he io nd om es re he me as se wn in es 3a nd 3b .
he in nd le es re ed to se ty .
he om od as a ch et - er on / ll en ce an he ar om od , gh it is ll ed nd en ed by he ve od .
or on cy , he om od ly as ly or ce ( ss an 3% ch is
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
re 23 : ( a ) ge st et cy er he en st ly ng cs en ng a ol es of 23 nd 23
( b ) ge en nt er he en st ly ng cs en ng a ol es of 23 nd 23
en se an re om ng ) nd is ys ly nd ly ut - ed by he ve od .
is es at he ce ns of he ve ds re ot ly ue to ir ty to as he ss of he es ey es .
he ve ds re ng al ed es nd ly lf of se es en to ve ve ls .
es 3a nd 3b ow he ge cy nd en nt of he io od th wo nt ol es .
ly he om ng ds ce ll ot be ed by he ol ze .
er , he hs te at ng he ol of ed ta ll ve th he cy nd en ce of ve ng .
is is te ve ce a od ve od ld be le to ke ge of a er ol of al es nd sk re ed ns .
we so ed ve ng in a ve ng .
re we ed he ts as al pt ow ch od ( le nd om ) ed a ve vm ed on th he ed nd ng ed ta in he ol .
as ed by ms ( 23 ) he en nt or a vm as ed by ly ng he er of ed es at we ed he vm to el as ve .
is es re - ng he vm le es nd as ly ve .
ce ur ng as on , he ce of ch er as ed on he ol of ta er an a te st et .
is ts he ce ck ve ce le ed in he on .
re 23 ws at ng a vm es a ht ge er a ar vm in th ng ds ( om nd le ) en ng en ts .
er , he ph so ws at ve ng es ly re et an on ed ng a vm th a om ng od ds er 23 es to ve
ng nd er
ed ng et ze
re 23 : ge ol et on / ll en nt er he en st ly
ng cs en ng a ol ze of 23
ed ng et ze
ed ng et ze
re 23 : ( a ) ge st et cy er he ve mp .
cs en ng a ol ze of 23
( b ) ge st et cy or mp . ys . bm . pc . re th a 23
he me en ce as a ar vm th a le od at as ly en 23 ed es .
23 ps ts
ur nd ta on as k .
gs ps on ng ( 23 ) .
we ed he ve mp .
ps , ng he et rs nd ct es .
we ed he xt ts ly as re , ng in rs of ut 23 ns .
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
re 23 : ( a ) a le le of ng ed rs .
( b ) ro - ge st et cy or mp . os . ms - ws . sc nd mp . ys . bm . pc . re re id es he io od or he st en es nd le or he st .
we ed lf of he 23 ts de to se as an nt st et , nd ly , ly se a ol of 23 ts om he ng es .
we ed ty ns or ch of he ve cs nd ed he ts .
we ed st et cy to re ce .
re 3a ns he ng ve ( ed er ll of he ts or he ve mp .
cs ) or he ee ve ng ds nd om ng .
in , he al ne es he ce of an vm at as en ed on he re ol .
re is no le ce en he in nd io ds ut , in wo of he ve ps ( mp . ys . bm . pc . re nd mp . os . ms - ws . sc ) he le ve ng od ms ly se an he in nd io ds .
re 3b ws he ge ng ve or he mp . ys . bm . pc . re ic .
in nd en to en er nt of he ns or th of he wo ps he le od as ed nd ed ly ly ( or ce , ng ly 3% cy en th ty ng es , ch is se an st ly ng a el ! ) .
is es at he le ng od ay be re le an he er wo ds .
ne on or is ld be at he le od ds ot to re he re ce as ly as he er ve ds , nd an nd up ng re rs of ed es .
in re 3a , he le od es al es re it en rs an ce in he ed er le th he in nd io ry a nt in he ed er ly .
le in nd io ar re le ey re ch re ly in - ve .
th a ge ol of s es , ey re ut 3s ms to be ed or ch ry .
st of he al st is ed en he er of es at ve dy en ed is ge .
he on is at he st of ng an vm ws mi - ly th he ze of he ed ng et nd so ow ng ch vm is ly ( ng
ng nd er
ry le in io id
le 23 : al un es in ds or he ve ds on he ps et
er 23 ds to te he th ry on a un ra 23 hz on th a ol of 23 ts ) .
er , en he ty of ed ta is ll , en th a ge ol ze , in nd io re ly st ( ng a ew ds er ry ) ce ow ng ch vm is ly ap .
ly , it is in he st en es at he le ms to er he st gh ts ck of ve on .
is es a id od .
we an se in or io or he st ew es nd en se he le od or he st .
ts th he id od ow at it ns he ty of he in nd io ds le ng he ty of he le od .
re 3b es he id od th he io nd le ds on he wo ps or ch he le od ed ly .
he st et cy of he id od is ly al to at of he io od le he id ds un me as ut he me as he le od , as ed by le 23
ed rk
re ve en al es of ve ng or on .
he ry by om - ee hm ( ng et al . , 23 , nd et al . , 23 ) es a or on er es .
is al hm as en ed in ns nd th rs or ch ng nd ng om a or on is al .
ey ve en ed th ic ls ( an nd on , 23 ) nd ly th he ve es el or xt on in a an ng ng ( um nd am , 23 ) .
he ve es er es an le el nd ed ys to po - te or ge nd ta th ng es .
er , it ly es ot rm as ll as ve ds ch as ms , ly in he xt on do - in ( ms , 23 , is et al . , 23 ) .
we re - ed um nd ms ( 23 ) al up on he rs - 23 us nd ed he ed ts om ir hm ( ch we ll ll he mn - hm er ) th rs .
in ne th ir al up , es re ed ve at a me , nd is as ed by ng he ve es st to he nt ne .
re 3a es um nd ms ed ts th rs .
he ph es at he ve vm ce is ly er an at of he
an ve ee ch to ry by ee as ed by re nd li ( 23 , 23 ) .
gh ir hm ( lt - hm er ) ks he he -
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
vm le ve
ed ng et ze
vm le ve hm ow ve hm ow ve
ed ng et ze
re 23 : ( a ) ge en nt ce er he rn , de nd cq rs - 23 es .
( b ) ge st et cy er he op en rs - 23
al ns of he ry by ee hm , ey ly ed ir ee ed ve ng od th ow rs in he xt on in .
re 3b as ed by ng ir al up on he rs - 23 ta et nd it es ir ed ts th rs .
ir hm es ot re a ve nd ve ce to ed ir er .
er an ng ur ve vm th a ve nd ve ce ( ch ld ve he ve vm an ir ge ) he ve vm ly ed 23 ts or ts st 23 es .
is ss ly ed at he ng et ed at st ne si - ve ce .
he ve vm en ed to ry es ly ng he le od .
te he ry ve on cy or he ve vm , he ph ws at he ve vm cy is ly er an at of he lt - hm .
is nd le ( 23 ) ed ty ng nd ed it to a xt in ng ic on nd , in a on er , ng on es ( is nd tt , 23 ) .
he le ng od or vm ve ng is ly he me as ir ty ng od ( se he ce at ur nt er is st er - in ut ) , er ey ed ly ss on as to hy he hm ld be ve .
ey so ed at he ce of he ty ng od an be le , ng te ly on ns .
wo er es ( ll et al . , 23 , hn nd hn , 23 ) ly de - ed ur le od or ve ng th rt or es nd ed nt al es .
ll , ni nd la nd ir is or he le od to er he se of ft in ms ( es nd ik , 23 ) th in - ly on - le ta .
hn nd hn te ng rs of he ve ng es in he ce of rs .
ng nd er
ns nd re rk
we ve ed a ew hm or ng ve ng th ms .
by ng ge of he ty en er ce nd re ce , we ed at ee ms at pt to ce on ce as ch as le at ch ry .
we ve wn ly at se es an de le ns in th he ve nd ve in me es ng he ed or ed es by er an er of de , nd in st ll es ng he ce le on he re ol ng en ly a on of he ta .
re , er ls of ed ta ve he ty of he ng er .
of he ee in ds ed , he le od is ly he st .
er , he le od ms to be a er nd re le on , as we ed en it ed ly on wo of he ve up cs .
if ng ch ry is ve ve to ng me en ng er he in or io ay be le .
er , if he st of ng ch ry is ly ap nd re is is ed on st ck en he le od ay be re le .
in er se , we ve wn at he se of se ds or ng an ly rm rd ve ng .
re , ts th he id od te at it is le to ne he ts of he io nd le ds .
he rk ed re ds us to ny ns of st .
al es ve ed at ns in al ed an be ed at he se of on ce by ng le es at a me ( is nd le , 23 , um nd am , 23 ) .
ng ms in ms of he on ce es an ht as to re he ns re ng de , nd is ay de a de as to ch le es re er to ry .
or ce , it is al to ry wo es se on ce es re ly el to ch er .
so , th he le od , ad of ly ng to ry he wo es at re he st to he nt vm , it ay be er to ry wo es at re se to he nt vm nd se es in he on ce re ly ar .
ar os an be de or he io nd in ds .
es nt es ( ch et al . , 23 ) ly nd he er of ss of he on ce .
ng he le od th is nt er an he vm nt in he on ce ay ce an nt in ce nd ty .
he se of te lo ds to te on ce as ay so ve ts .
ne ay of ng he gy of ys ng to ve he on ce is at we ve ly ed a rm on er he nt ce of nt es nd we sh to ce he ed ze of he on ce as st as le .
er an ng a rm on er nt es , it is le at he on of or ge er ur es ce ay ow us to fy ur ry hm nd ed us th an en er gy .
re , he ac - an rk ed by er ( 23 ) rs he ct of or ge on on ds nd is ch ay ad to al es or he ed ng ms .
ly , he io nd in ds re ly ve ce ey ve to ep gh ch of he ed ta es nd rn an vm or ch le
vm ve ng th ns to xt on
ng .
er , he ly ed ta ts ll ly er by ne ce om he al ed ta et nd so ne an ge ng an vm on he al ta et nd en ng he al es to in he ew ms ( hs nd io , 23 ) or ch of he le gs of ch of he ed es .
us , ne ld ly in a ch re nt on of he io nd in ds nd ce ow se ve ng ms to le up to er ms .
is rk as ed by as on ce am er ct to ri al , nd by ro nt 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 er he ri am ed ch to nt ms .
