wo of he st nt ds of rk in ge on ay re me - ed on ms ( ss ) nd an ks ( ns ) .
ss de an ex - nt on or he al re of ge ex ns , ut ir ty is ed se of ir ty to al th ty nd se .
ns ro - de an ve nd nt ic on of ur ty , ut re ry ed in ir ty to le ex ed ns .
in is er , we de a an - ge at ly es se es , ng he es of th .
ur ch ws us to de al nd ct ns of ty ls or a ss , in a ay at is al to he ss me .
se ls an be ed or ny et of ed es , ng in a nt ty on er he ce er - es .
ur ge so ws us to nt nt es of ty at ot be ed in he me - rk of al ns : ty er he et of es nt in ur el , nd ty ut he ps en se es .
we de an ce hm or ur ge ia a on to ce in rd an ks .
we be an ed em at ws st of he in me ms in ce ay to te ir ge es th ic on , nd to se at on in ng ic es .
me on ms ( ss ) re ly he ri - ry gy ed or ge le ge ta - on in ai ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
ir ar on ng to ly ul es nd ir ty to re ns on to ny ls de a nt ge or ng ex ed in od - ls .
ne of he st nt ps in he ve er of is pe of rk is ts ty to nt nd on th in nd sy on .
ty is le in he al ld : ur on is en ac - te nd ys te , nd ly a ew of he es at we se or ng re ue in ll le es .
in he al ng , is em as ly en ed er he st de by he nt of
ht 23 , an on or al li -
ce ( ww . ai . rg ) .
ll ts ed .
ic ng ms , nd ly an ks ( 23 ) .
a an rk ( bn ) is a on of a ll nt on er a et of om s; it an be ed to er es ut ny of ts es en ny ce .
a bn ws a ex on to be ed ly by ng he ty of ce in ur el of he ld .
ut , ke ll al ms , he ty of ns is ly ed to ns at an be ed , in ce , ng a ed et of es .
us , ey re te or ge - le ex kr ks .
ng on ur nt rk ( 23 , 23 ) , we se a en - on ge at es me - on ms nd an ks , by ng he st ge en se wo ry nt ds of rk in kr .
he ey nt in ur on is he on of a me th a ty el .
is ty el is , ly ng , a bn ng a on er he le es of he ts in he me .
at is , ch im - le ot in he me is ed th a al ty el , ng he ce of ts ue on he al - es of ed ts .
or le , in a me ng a hd nt , he ue of he ot rs - to - on ay nd on he ot ar nd he ot in or . ky .
as we an ee en om is le le , by ld - ng on rd rs ty , ur ch es ly re ve er an al ns .
or le , by ng he ty el of a ot to nd on a ot in , we ow he es of ne in - ce in he el to nd on es of er ed es .
we an so se he rd ss hy of he rs to ow he ty el of a ss to be ed by le es of at ss , nd to ow ce of ty ls om es to es , ng he me sm in ch ot es re ly ed .
ly , by ng in ls st - ss ns in ur rk we an so ss a ew nd nt pe of ty ed al ty .
we an ve a ic el ng ur ty ut he et of es in ur el , e . g . , he er of hd ts in a nt .
we an so nt ty ut ns en es , e . g . , ch of al es a er ed in .
we de a ic ce hm or ur ge ed on an ch wn as ge - ed
el on .
he hm es a ge se in ur ge , ng a et of es , nd es a rd bn ch an en be ed ly or ur fs ut he ue of ny ts .
ur ty el is ed ng rd me on es ch as ts nd ue ic - ns .
is ty is nt , ce it ws ur ch to be ed th ly ny me em , nd by to te ng bs th ic on .
ar , we ve ed a em ed on ur ap - ch , le of ng th st ng ss ia bc ( 23 ) , an ng rd or rs ty .
ur rk is a nt nt er us ap - es to ng st - er ic nd an et - ks .
st of he ts in is on ( e . g . , ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) ) se ic rn es as he ic on .
he ce of rn es as an ng ge al - dy es me of he es of he on , e . g . , ts ty to te an ct nd ts es in a ly ul me .
er , he se of al ty in is rk ly es al up of he ng ls , ng st es to aw it ly .
ur rk so er - es me or ns of ur er ls ( 23 , 23 ) , by ng th al ty ( nt in he st ) nd ic es en es ( nt in it so es he al ty , nt in th , to te ex ls ng ny es at re ed to ch er in a ty of ys .
23 ic on
we in th me ic gy or me ms .
he gy es ly om em to em .
is er we pt he ge nd ic ge el of he bc ol ( 23 ) .
he ic it of se in a me em is a me .
a me as a et of ts , ch of ch ay ve ot es or rs .
ly , a ot ts a ry on on s; if he er of ot a in me x is me y , en he on x; y ds .
in al ts ay be le - ed or ti - ed .
in is on we me at ts re le - ed .
is on ll be ed in on 23
a ot - in is a ce of ro or re ts ed by ds .
a ot - in ts a ry on : he ot - in a : re a is a ot nd is a ot - in es he on x; z j x; y ^ y; zg .
a ot in a me ay ve ed ts .
a et is a ry on : if he et ue of et f on ot a in me x is y , en he on f x; a; y ds .
a rd et is ue - pe , ch es a ue on on he es of a ot .
he ue - pe of a ot ll be ed ts pe .
he wo in es of es re ss es , nt - ng ts of es , nd ce es .
he ss es re ed in an is - a hy , re ne ss ay be a ss of er ( ts ss ) .
he ts of a ss me ay be wn ts , ch be a ty of he ss lf , nd te ts , ch re ts ed by ll es nd es of he ss .
he ts so - ed th te ts re te ts , nd re so
ed .
an ce or ss ay de he es of ed ts or ts .
ic on is ed to a me kb by ng ss es th al ls .
a ss me at as en so ed is ed a p - ss .
a p - ss as a et of te ts , ch th a ue - pe et .
ng on he pe , a ot is er le or ex .
he pe of a ex ot is er p - ss .
he pe of a le ot is an ly ed st of le es or he ot .
or le , he hd - nt p - ss ay ve a le ot ar , se pe is st , nd , rd , th , dg , nd a ex ot or se pe is he p - ss or .
a p - ss ay so ve er ts at do ot te in he ty el , se pe is er of he ve .
or le , hd - nt ay so ve he ot me , ch es ot ve an ed ty el .
is re ws ng bs to be ed th ic on , ut ng a te gn of he gy .
a le ot is ry ch ke a de in a es et .
it as a ge of es , a et of ts , nd a pt .
a p - ss es a ty el or ts le ts ng wo al - se ts : ts nd on .
ts re a al ce to ut a ty el , ce ch a el an be ed as a on of a ue ic - on : ot ly es it fy a ge of le es , ut so a on er at ge .
he ts et ts he ts on ch he ue of is ot ds .
ch nt is ed by a ot - in ng to me er le ot .
re ly , et x be a p - ss nd a a le ot .
he ts et of a is a st of ot ns 3; : : : ; n , ch at x : i rs to a le ot .
or le , in he hd - nt p - ss , ar ay ve he nt ( ge ) , le he ts of rs - to - on ay be r; or . ky .
he on et es he al ty is - on er es of he ot en es of ts ts .
he al on is ed ng a al ty le ( pt ) as in an ks .
or ch on of es of ts ts , he pt es a ty on er es of he ot .
or he ur - es of is er , we me at he ts re ed as ly ed ns of nt es .
re ct ns ch as sy - or an ly be ed in ur rk .
he ty el of a ex ot is ly de - ed by ts p - ss y .
er , ch ex ot a so as an al et ed ts , se ue is a st of ts in y .
is st , ed he rt st of a , is he st of ts of y at re le in x .
we re at if a : b : ( or a ly ty ot in ) is a ot in ng in x , en b st be in he rt st of a .
ce a ty el as en ed or a p - ss , he p - ss an be ed st ke ny er ss me .
ne an te es of he ss , ch ll it ll of ts te ts nd ts .
in ar , he ty on er es of ts of he ce ll be as de - ed in he p - ss .
ly , he ce sm of a me em an be ed to ke ne p - ss a ss of er .
a ss an nd he on of he er - ss as ll as te ts of it .
in ar , a ss
an ne he ty el of ne or re of he ts .
or le , we an ne te - to be a ss of or , nd te he on er ry to ne at is te to he re ic ss .
er im - nt ct of ng is at an ce of a ss is so an ce of he ss , so at it an ll a ot se pe is he ss .
or le , in a ar ce of hd - nt , he ue of he or ot ay be ed to be an ce se ss is te - or .
es an be ed to an wn ot of an ce me er ly or by nt to a te ot at he ss el .
th es of ts re ed in he me ay .
an nt to a le ot is ed as ng he ue of he ot , by ng he ty on or he ce .
is ng ss ay lt in a ge in ur fs or er ed ts .
er , or le , a ss ng - hd - nt of hd - nt ch ns 23 to he ot rs - to - on .
en he ng ss ll lt in a ew ty el or ny ce i of is s; in ar , ur fs ut i : ar nd i : or . ky ll th ge , as ll ur fs ut er ed ts .
an nt to a ex ot es at he ue of at ot is er ar ce .
us , ex et - ks of er - ed es an be ed , ch as ts ho re an or , nd ts of nt rs in he me nt .
ch an nt at he ss el ts in ll of he ss es ng he me me as ir ue or at ot .
ne of he es of a ic me em is at ed es an ce ch er .
we ve dy en ne sm or ch ns : ce a nt of a ot is a ot - in , he ue of a le ot ay be ed ly by he ue of a ot in er me .
is sm , er , ly ws a me to be ed by ed es , ut ot to ce em in rn .
we ve is ty by ng a ic re of st se ts .
et x nd y be wo ss es , a a ot of x th pe y , nd b a ot of y th pe x .
en a nd b re se ts if , or ry ce i of x , if i : a = j en j : b = i , nd ce sa .
us , we ew an nt of a ic ce me j to a ot i : a as ng he ng nt of i to j : b .
or at on , we do ot ow ts of es to ts ch as a at he ss l; se , or ny en me j of ss y , he ue of j : b ld be he et ng of ry me of ss x , a el ch is oo dy to al th .
se ts ow er of he es to er to ts in he er , by ng ic es in th ns .
ng ch ed es ut on ld ad to ly ex ns be - en wo es .
in ar , it ld ad to a ic in of es at as no nt ty el .
re , ne of he wo se ay x : is ig - ed to be he ry on le he ry : is ry .
ly , x is ed he ry me , le y is he ry me .
a ry se ot ch as a in x as a ts et st ke a le ot , i . e . , it is a st
of ot - ns in x .
ly , he ts of a re he ly ts of x at re ed to y ia b .
re ly , he nt st of a in x st be al to he rt st of b in y .
us , he ow of ce en he wo es is ly ed : he ts of a in x an ce ny of he ts in y ; me of se an , in rn , ce er ts in x at re am om a .
or le , se we de at he is ot of hd - nt ld be an se ot , th ts se ng he or ot of hd - is .
he ot is is ed to be ry , nd is en he nt ld in hd - nt .
en ld is le in he hd - is ss , so at or le , on - nt ay nd on or . ld .
er ts of hd - nt ay nd on ts of s; us , or le , ob - ts ay nd on is . ty , ch ld re ve to be on he rt st of is .
se ts ve a al se in ur ge .
as we id , ey ow al es en wo es .
ut ey so ow ur ic ls to be ed .
if , as ve , x : a nd y : b re es , nd we ne an ce om ss x , it ly es he ce of a ng ce om ss y .
al - ly , we ld rt ng th an ct of ss y , nd ee at he ng x ll st .
us , we an ne a el ed nd er es re of st to us in ur xt .
in is on we nt a cs or ic me ge es .
or a en kb th a et of ss nd ce es , ur cs es a ty bu - on er he ot es of he ce es ( nd of me er ed ce es ) .
in er to ne a nt ty on , ur me kb st fy al ns .
he ic me of he ns is ar om he lm of an ks : ur cy el st be ic .
er , ce re ay be ed ns of es th in a me nd en es , nd on th he ss nd ce ls , we ed to op me ls to on ut es .
on 23 : a cy is a ir x : a y : b , re x nd y re es ( ot ly ct ) , a is a ot of x nd b is a ot of y .
we ay at x : a y : b ds if a is a le ot of x , y = x nd b : is a nt of a; a is a ex ot of x , b is in he rt st of a , nd y is er an ce me ed to x : a or he p - ss me ch is he ue pe of x : a .
ly , a cy x : a y : b ts at or ry ce me i nt th x re ts an ce me j nt th y ch at i : a ds ( if x is lf an ce me i , en ly i is nt th x; if x is a ss , en ny ce of at ss is nt th x . ) te er , at ur on of es ly rs he st ot in a in on ch a ot s; us , it es ly a st - el on of cy .
it is a ve te of he ue cy el , ce if x : a y : b , it is ot ly he se at x : a ds on ry ot - in
le it is ly rd to ne ur on of cy , we ve nd ur on to be te or st es .
on 23 : a cy in is a st 23 : 23 23 : 23 ch at , or ch i , xi : ai 23 : 23
a cy le is a cy in at ns nd ds th he me ot .
cy es ct al ms th ur ( gh , as ed by ur on ve , me ct ls ay ar to be ic im - ly se of ur te or ic en - es . ) a cy le ng i : a , re i is an ce me , ds to a le in of en - es gh ch i : a ds on lf .
ch a ic cy , if it ts , ts us om ng a nt ty el .
a cy le ng x : a or me ss x ns at or ry ce 23 of x re is me ce 23 of x ch at 23 : a ds on 23 : a .
in me es , 23 nd 23 re ly he me e; ch es re ed ly ic .
in rs , er , ey re ct es of he ss x .
se es an so be ic , as ey ay nt an te cy in ng th 23 : a : 23 : a ds on 23 : a ch de - ds on me 23 : a , tc .
ch ls so do ot ly ve ll - ed ic cs .
we de om is on at we nt to ow ll cy es . 23 me es of cy es re sy to nt ng ly al ns .
if - ly , we an ld , or ch ss x , a cy ph or x .
is ph ns ll he ts of x , th an ge om b to a if he cy x : a x : b ds .
ly , if we nt to id cy es , is ph ld be ic .
ed , ur re in ng he cy el or se ts es at if we ke ll ss cy hs ic , we id ny ly ic cy ns at he ss el .
ly , if we ne a ss - el en - cy in to be ne in ch ll he is re p - es , we in he ng em : em 23 : if we ve a ge se in ch ll ss cy hs re ic , en re re no ly ic ss - el cy ns .
er , as we ed , en cy ns at re ot ly ic an lt in nt ls .
in on , we ve ot ed ce - el cy ns at re ly ic .
ly , he al em is ot so sy to nt ng ly al ts .
er , we an ct er or ot he kb ns a cy le by ng a re al ed ph g , ed he cy ph of he kb .
he es of g re ll x : a re x is a p - ss or ed me nd a is a ot of x .
re is an ge om y : b to x : a if he cy x : a y : b ds .
ly , he kb ns a cy le ff g is ic .
or a kb at ns no cy es , ur al ow is to ne a ty on er ns
te at we re ot ng te ce ns ( ns of ed es ) , ss ey ly te cy
to es , i . e . , ts of es to he ts of he es .
al es ne to ke ch a on lt .
he st us ea is to ow he ch en in he cs of an ks : we ne a et of om es , nd ne a on er ir nt ue ce .
ly , ur rk is oo ch to ke is ch te .
as we ed , he et of ce es at we an ly er to ay be te .
le ne ht be le to nt is ic - ar em , a re us ne ts en we ch ur ge th al ty in ns 23 nd 23
en , he et of ce es an so ry ti - ly , in a ay at th ds on nd es he es of er om es in he el .
we re ne ur cs ia a ta ng ss , at ly es es or he us es in he el .
he om ng ss ly de - es a on er he nt le ue gn - ts : he ty of a ue nt is he ty th ch it is ed by he ss .
te at , gh a om ng ss an so be ed as a ic hm or te ce , we re ot ng is h; ur ng ss is ly a ht ex - nt or ng he on .
in on 23 , we ow ow a re rd ss of ct ce an be ed to ly er es ve to is on .
he ng ss ds ue ts to ts of es ly , as he nt ts re re - ed .
by ng ch al ts , we ss he em of ng ff on te ng ns .
he on of te cy ns es at he ng ns ed to le he ue of ny le ot ll ys te .
on 23 : a al ue or an ce me is an nt of es ( of he te pe ) to me et of ts le ts , an nt of ce es ( om he te p - ss ) to me et of ts ex ts , nd a al ue or ch of se ed es .
ne al ty es in he ng on .
me ce es ay ve ic es re - ed to me of he ir ts .
ch an nt an be ne ia an it nt or a ed ce me , or ia a ss of ce om a te ot of a ss to ch he ce gs .
as we ed in on 23 , he se - cs of ch ts is to on he on .
to in he ht cs , we ke he us di - on to ur ta ng ss .
if , ng he ng ss , a ue is ed or a ot ch is nt th he ed ue , we ly rd he re al ue ed up to at nt .
it is sy to ee ( 23 ) at he ve ty th ch a al ue is er - ed in is ta ng ss is ly he me as ts ty ed on he ed ot es .
as we ed , ur ng re ds up a ar - al ue ce by ce , as he es re ed .
ur in re , wn in re 23 , is le ( i , a ) , ch es he ue of a le le ot a of a le ce me i .
in er to le a om he ct on , it st rd in nd le er ts on ch he
if a as a ue in en rn ch nt of a if is a ot b in i en se / * is of he rm : c * / et j : = ue ( i , )
se a ue v or a ng to p a j aa nd th i : a = v if a as a re - ed ue v en if v = v en il
if is ty en / * is of he rm b : * / if i : b is ed a ue j in en et k : = j se if i : b is re - ed a ue j en nd th i : b = j et k : = j et y be ue - pe ( b ) te a ew ce k of p - ss y nd th i : b = k if b as an se b in k en nd th k : b = i rn ue ( k , )
re 23 : ta ng ng el
if he cy ph is ic ,
ue of a ds .
ue ( i , ) es he ue of he ex ot - in i : , if ry ng ew ce es to nt he es of ex ts .
en he re ns , he al ue ( a al le in he re ) ns a ue or i : a .
ma 23 : le ( i , a ) , ed om a al ue es a ty on er ns of th a ue as - ed to i : a .
re , he es ot nd on he er in ch he ts of a re ed .
of : he ic ps in he of re as ws .
to ve he st rt of he em , it es to ow at he am - ng hm es .
is of ds ng a im - le ve nt er he th of cy ns .
to ve at he on is nt of he er , we ve at a le ot is ys ed om he me al on , ss of en it is ed , nd at he re ns re so ed ly .
we an ow ne a kb re at es le ( i , a ) to le es or he ts of ll ed es in he kb .
if ny ll to le ls , he re ng ss ds to be ed .
ce a ue as en ed to ll le ts of ed es , we ve ed or ll ce in he el , nd re er ng of er ts ot ly il .
re he on we ve ed er he ts we ve ed is he al ne .
em 23 : if he cy ph is ic en am - kb es a ty on er al es ch ve es ed to ll le ts i : a or ll ed es i .
23 ed ts nd er ty to is nt , we ve ed at ry ot is le - ed .
er , ts at ke on le es re a al pt in me ms .
he ai - or p - ss ay ve a ti - ed rs ot of pe ai - er .
to fy ur on , we re ti - ed ts to be ex , nd ll es of he ot st be of he me p - ss , as ed in he ts ue - pe .
to ow er ts in a me x to nd on he op - es of a ti - ed ot a , we st nt a ay or a
ot to nd on a et of ts .
as he ts in he et ot be ed to ly , we st er ad to he es of he et .
on 23 : a er ot or a ti - ed ot a as he rm a : : e , a : : e , na : : e or na : : e , re is a ot in of a nd e is an nt of he ue pe of a : .
he ue - pe of a er ot is he et e; eg .
en a et of es or a , he ue of a er ot on a : b as ly he ng at ne ld t; or le , if or at st 23 es i of he rs ot i : ct as he ue gh , en he ue of rs . ct gh is ue .
te at he pt of a er ot is ll - ed or ny er of es of ts ti - ed ot .
on he er nd , no er ot an nd ly on he ti - ed ot , by ng he em of ng al ts th a le er of ts .
a er ot , on he er nd , is ed in he me ay as a le ot , so it ay be ed as a nt of er ot .
us , or le , he ll - et - re ot of he nt - or ss ay nd on he ve er ot .
so ar , we ve ot ed he er of es at a en ti - ed ot an ke .
in ny es , e . g . , he er of rs , is er is ot ed .
re , we ld ke to be le to el ns in ch nt rs of rs re le , nd to nt ur fs in se us es .
in er ds , we ld ke to ow al ty er he et of es in he ld nd he ps en em .
ty er he er of es of a ti - ed ot is a pe of al ty ed er ty .
we an nd ur ge to nt er er - ty by ng th ch ed ot a of x a ew er ot ma , ch es er me et of al rs 3; 3; : : : ; ng ( we me at he er of es of ry ot is ed ) .
he ot ma is ed st ke ny er le t; it as ts nd on ts at be ts ty el .
us , he er of es of a in x an nd on es of er ts of x nd of ed es , nd it an so be he nt of er ot .
or le , ai - or ll ve a rs ot , se ue es om 23 to 3; rs ay nd on ty nd in rn ce ed .
as th he se of le - ed ts , a ic ue i ay be ed or a ti - ed ot a of th a p - ss nd a ed al .
we et ch ts as ng at ne of as es is i .
it es ot nt a om ng er s; in ct , le es ay be ed or he ot .
ch ts do ot te ur er ty or is ot , ut ny se re he ot as er an he er of ed rs is d; us , we st on ma to be at st he ed er .
to rt at a as ly he es ed , we ld ed to ly rt a ue or ma .
it is ng to ne he on en ti - ed ts nd es .
me at he es ot as an se or in he hd - nt me .
if we ow ve a nt ce me i , en we ly rt at st ne he ue or he es ot in he
ce me i : or .
us , en if we ve no er on er ut is ce me , it ll ot be a ic er of he or ss .
he ry ct at he or is es or es ts on by ng it on he ct at es 23
te at he se ot ay so be ti - ed .
ny - ny ns ve se to ly te ce ns .
or le , a er ay ve al rs , ho ve ll en al rs , nd so on .
er , ue to he ns on he ow of ce en ry nd ry es , an te ce in of is rt ot ad to an te cy in .
er ty an be ed to ur cs te ly .
we ed to dd er nd er ts to he cy ph .
er ts re ed st ke le ts : re is an ge to x : ma or ch of he ts of ma in x .
if x : q is a er ot er x : a , re is an ge om x : a to x : q .
ly , we st ke he ue of x : a nd th on x : ma nd he es it ts om ch of ts rs .
if x : a ts b , en we ve x : a y : b , re y is he pe of a , nd x : a i : b or ry ed ue i of x : a .
he ng ss an ly be ed to nt or ti - ed ts .
en a ti - ed ot a ds to be ed or he st me , we le st a ue n or ma .
et m be he er of ed es or a .
if n m , he le ls .
se , n ( id : 23 ) m ew es of he pe of a re ed , nd he et of es of a is et to be he m ed rs nd he n ( id : 23 ) m ew es .
em 23 es to ld .
23 ce ty
as we id , al ty ws us to nt is - ns er ls th nt es .
er un - ty ws us to ry he et of es in ur el .
in is on , we be ce ty , ch al - ws us to ry he ns en he es .
or le , we ay nt he ce ot of he ai - er ss to be ai th ty 23 , nd er ic ai ce th ty 3; te at ai is ot he ue of a le ot , ut an ce me lf .
we nd ur ge to te ce ty by ng me ex ts to be ct .
ch ct ot a is ed th a ce ot ef a , a le ot se ue es he ue of he ct ot .
on 23 : if a is an ct ot of pe y in p - ss x , en ef a is a le ot in x se ue pe is an ed et r , ch of se es is er : a ed al of pe y , a ot - in of x se pe is y , or he ss y lf .
in ny ce i of x , he ue of a is ed in ms of he ue of ef a : if he ue of ef a is a ed al j , i : a = j; if he ue of ef a is a ot - in , en i : a = i : ; if ef a is he p - ss y , en he ue of a is a ew ce of y .
a ce ot is ed st ke ny er le ot , so it as ts nd a pt , nd an ce er le ts .
a ue an be ed to a ce ot om
in ts ue - pe , nd he ue of he ct ot ll be ed by it .
an ct ot is ed ke ny er le - ed ex t; it as an rt st , nd er ts an nd on he ts it ts .
or al ns , we do ot ow ct ts to ct ts , or do we ow em to ve es .
as th er ty , ce ty an be ed te ly to ur cs .
we ed to dd ce nd ct ts to he cy ph .
a ce ot is ed ke ny er le t; us , ts ly es re on ts ts .
an ct ot a ly ds on ef a , so we ve a ef a .
ce a is a ex ot , it so ds on he ts at it ts .
er , se of ce ty , we do ot ow he me om ch it ts se ts .
et b be me ot on he rt st of a .
to be fe , we ed to nt or ry le ue of ef a .
us , or ch r , if is a ed al i , we ve x : a i : b; if is a ot in c : , we ve x : a x : c; if is he ss y , we ve x : a y : b , ng he ct a ay rt b om me ce of y .
he ng ss es a ll ge to gn - ex to al th ct ts .
en ex is ed th an ct ot , we st le he ue of he ng ce ot in he al er , nd en gn he ue of he ct ot in he er er - ed by he ue of he ce ot .
th is ge , em 23 es to ld .
in he ng ns , we ed a on an - ge nd cs or ic me ms .
to te he ry , we ow nt a le ce al - hm or ng ic es in ch a ys - em .
ur an le ny ce - ed ry , i . e . , es ut he es of ts of es .
or ty , we ct on to le ts of ed es , as er es an ly be ed to se .
he hm , ed bn , is ed on ge - ed el on ( 23 ) , he ss of ng a kb nd ng a bn b ng he me ty el .
rd bn ce an en be ed to er es .
es in he es et b ve he rm i : : a re i is an ce me ( ot ly ed ) , is a ly ty ot in , nd a is a le ot .
he ks by rd ng ng cy ns , ng he te es in he bn if ey do ot dy st .
re ly , he hm ns an en st l of es to be ed .
ly , l ns ly he le ts of ed es .
in ch on , he hm es a de om l , nd es it .
en a de is ed om l , it is ed in ne of ee ys : as a le ot , as a ot in , or as a er ot .
le ts i : a re ed as ws .
or ch ar - nt i : , an ge is ed om i : to i : a by a ll to nt ( i : a , i : ) ; if i : is ot dy in b , is ou - ne ds i : to b nd l .
( te at he nt st of ny le on - er ot is ed . ) en ll ts ve en ed , he pt is ed om he on et
a ot in i : b : is ed as ws :
if b is ct en if b is ed a ue j in i en k = j se k = xi : b , re x is he pe of b in i et pt of i : b : to py he ue of k : ly , if b is ed a ed al j in i , en i : b = j .
se , i : b = xi : b , an ce of x at es ot ar re se in he b; ly , xi : b es he le of a em on .
er ay , he ue of i : b is wn to be me er me k , so at i : b : is al to k : .
we ke k : a nt of i : b : , nd ne he pt to ce is ty .
se te es ng he ot in re ed to or he ow of es gh ex ts .
ey re ed se he ow es ed en he in ns ct ts .
te es at re us an ly be ed in a le st - ng se .
if b is ct , en he ue of i : b ld be ne of al es , ng on he ue of he ce ot i : ef b .
or ny ue of i : ef b , et k te he me ch is he ue of i : b .
he ue of i : b : is al to he ue of k : .
in er ds , i : ef b ts he ue of i : b : om a et of es .
re , he de i : b : is a er de ( 23 ) ; it as as ts he de i : ef b nd ll es k : b : , nd it es he ue of i : ef b to ct , as ts ue , he ue of ne of ts or ch ue of i : fb if is a ed al j en k = j if is he ot in en k = i : if is he ss y en k = y i : c et pt or i : b : to ct he ue of ki : b : it ns to al th he es ed by er ty .
ce a ti - ed ot a an ly be ed by er ts , se re he ly ts ch we ed to er .
er a er ot i : q er a : .
he ue of i : q is ly ed by i : ma nd he ue of in ch of he le es of a .
et n be he um er of ch es , nd se at a is ed m es 3; : : : ; jm in i .
in on to se , re an be up to n ( id : 23 ) m er es at re es or a; we ld a me or ch of em , jm + 3; : : : ; jn .
he de i : q ds on i : ma nd on he te et of he es ji : ; i . e . , if ma is k , en ly 3; : : : ; jk ll ce i : q .
he ct rm of he ce ll nd on he rm of he er .
or le , a ti - er ot ll be a ic on of he te et of ts ts .
er ( i : q ) / * a er er a : * / et n be he um ue of i : ma et j 3; : : : ; j m be he ed es to i : a or i = m + 23 to n j i = ii : a , re x is he pe of i : a
re 23 : rt of he ed bn or of .
ps re se .
ls or ly wo of he ty le rs re wn .
er ( i ) is nd or er ( mp . rs ) ( i ) , nd nf ( i ) is rt or nf ( er ( mp . rs . ce ) ( i ) ) .
he bn ed or
or i = 23 to n nt ( i : q , j i : ) et he pt or i : q to nd on j 23 : ; : : : ; j ma : to te he hm , re 23 ws rt a kb ng he re se of ne of .
mp , an ce of ai - nt - or .
he de mp . ll - et - re ds on mp .
23 ( rs . ct : gh ) .
he er is a er ot , so it as as ts mp : rs nd he ct ot of ch of he 23 le rs .
ow , me at he ss er as ct ng on ce . ge .
is ce is ed or ch of he 23 le pa - rs .
he ot ce is ct , so at or ch i ( ng he nd of he re ) er ( i ) . nf . ge as he nt er ( i ) . ef ( nf ) nd he ge ot of he le es of at ce , ch re ai nd nf ( i ) .
ng er he ll re of he hm , we ee at re is a ce en he re of he cy ph g nd at of he bn b .
we an de - ne a ng om es of b to es of g as ws : i : a : is i : a if i is a ed al , nd x : a er - se or x he p - ss of i .
ly , he de x : a in g is a ve or ll he es i : a re i is a ic ce of x .
ma 23 : if re is an ge om de 23 to de 23 in b , en re is an th om 23 to 23 in g .
in er ds , g es as a te or he es in b .
ny es in b ay ap to he me th in g , ut ny le or te cy in b ll ly ap to a le in g ( se g is te ) .
is ty is he is or he ng em .
if he cy ph is ic , on - bn es nd he ed es et is ic .
is on so es us th an ve ec - on or he on ed by a ic me kb .
ly , he bn ds to he or on ed by he kb .
in ar , he pt of a ma ot an be a ve ty to ma = 23 , te he ct at ne or re es ve en ed or a in he
in er or b to nt he on ed by ur cs , we st on it on ll of ur ns .
ly , we rt he ue or ny le ot se ue as ed in he kb , nd er ds on he ue of ma ng to he er of es ed or a ( ng ly ia es ) .
em 23 : et s be he et of le ts of ed ls , nd e he ce on le ts nd er ts ed om he kb .
en bs j e is he me as he on er s ed by ur cs .
we ve ed ur ch in a em at ns he ng ty : a al rk - ed or / er an be ed to te a me kb th he ts ng ts ty el .
he di - or / er ts th he ng rs ng bc , us ng ts se th ny of he ng me ms ( e . g . , ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) ) .
ur ce nt so ts to he rs ia c; it ts he nt on ut es , es , nd ir ic ls , ts he bn ng to he kb , nd es he bn to an - er ic es .
he em as en ed ly th he ua me em ( 23 ) nd as ed or ng le ls of le nt ns in a ry ng .
ur ce th he ys - em ed at en ry le ls th ee or ur le p - es ld be ed to te ly ed ns ( th ds of es ) ng al ng
23 on nd ns
in is er , we ve ed he st on en wo of he st nt ds of rk in kr .
ur an - ge es a an is en he ic ng nt nd rd me ng il - es .
om he ve of me ms , ur em ws ng me bs to be ed th ic ls , ly ng he ty of me ms to ex - ss ul ge in al - ld ns .
we ve so ed an ce hm le of er - ng ic es ut es , by ng a nt se to he al ty of ch ms .
om he ve of ic ng , ur ge es he ls or he on of ls or ry ge ex ns , ly ng up ur ty to do in ng .
ur ge as en us he ng ty of re - ng ly ve ic ls th al ty .
ly , we ve ly ed he ce of is ea .
or le , it is sy to dd ty er he pe of an ct , e . g . , to ne a ty bu - on th ch a or is an nt , te , nd ll or .
it is so sy to ne er nd ce ty , ng , or le , he or of a nt to be ed om he et of ty rs in he cs nt .
se re wo of ny le ns at an ow be ed .
er nt ue ch we ve ly ed is he ce em or ic me - ed od - ls .
we ve wn ow we an ce he em to at of
ng in a rd bn , ut is ch es ot ke ll se of he re ed in ur on .
ar , it ls to it on of es in er es nd he se of ss ls ng al ts .
se as re ut to od se in ( 23 , 23 ) , nd it is an nt ch ic to ly em in ur er me - rk .
we ve at by ng se es in ur ce as ll as in ur on , we ll be le to ly nt nd on in ge in ns .
ts is rk as ed by nr on - ct 23 - 23 - c - 23 er as kb am , by pa ct 23 - 23 - c - 23 er ct to on on nd rt , nc . , nd gh he ty of he ll on nd he an da -
