ort tor nes ave met ith ant ess in ous eal - rld ing sks .
ver , ike ost ine ing hms , hey are lly ied ing a mly ted ing set ied in nce .
in any ngs , we lso ave the ion of ing ool - sed ive ing .
ead of ing a mly ted ing set , the ner has ess to a ool of led ces and can est the els for ome ber of hem .
we uce a new thm for ing ive ing ith ort tor nes , i . e . , an thm for ing ich ces to est ext .
we ide a cal ion for the thm ing the ion of a ion ace .
we ent tal lts ing hat ing our ive ing hod can tly uce the eed for led ing ces in oth the ard ive and ive ngs .
rds : ive ing , ive ing , ort tor nes , ica - ion , nce ack
in any sed ing sks , ing ces to ate a ing set is ime - ing and ly; hus , ing ays to ize the ber of led ces is ial .
lly , the ing set is sen to be a dom ing of ces .
how - ver , in any ses ive ing can be yed .
ere , the ner can ely ose the ing ata .
it is ped hat ing the ner his tra ity ill uce the ers eed for rge ies of led ata .
ool - sed ive ing for ion was ced by wis and ale ( 123 ) .
the ner has ess to a ool of led ata and can est the rue ass bel for a ain ber of ces in the ool .
in any ins his is a ble ach nce a rge ity of led ata is ily ble .
the ain sue ith ive ing is ing a way to ose ood sts or ies rom the ool .
les of ons in ich ool - sed ive ing can be yed are : web ing .
a web - sed any hes to rch the web for lar pes of ges ( e . g . , ges ing sts of nal ons ) .
it oys a ber of ple to and - bel ome web ges so as to ate a ing set for an tic
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 mon ong and hne ler .
ong and ler
ier hat ill lly be sed to ify the est of the web .
nce man ise is a ted rce , the any hes to uce the ber of ges the ees ave to bel .
her han ing ges mly awn rom the web , the ter sts ted ges hat it ves ill be ost ive
ail ing .
the ser hes to ate a zed tic unk ail ter .
in the ing ase the tic ner has ess to the ers ast ail les .
it ely ngs up ast ail and sks the ser her the yed ail is unk ail or not .
sed on the ers wer it ngs up her ail and ies the ser .
the ess is ted ome ber of mes and the ult is an ail ter red to hat cic son .
nce ack .
the ser hes to ort ugh a ase or ite for ems ( ges , les , etc . ) hat are of nal tan ill now it hen i see it ype of rch .
the ter ays an tem and the ser lls the ner her the tem is ing or not .
sed on the ers wer , the ner ngs up her tem rom the ase .
ter ome ber of ies the ner hen rns a ber of ems in the ase hat it ves ill be of est to the
the rst two les lve ion .
the oal is to ate a ier hat rks ell on een ure ces .
the ird ple is an ple of ion ( nik , 123 ) .
the ers nce is sed on the ing ces in the ase her han a lly ent est set .
we ent a new thm hat rms ool - sed ive ing ith ort tor nes ( vms ) .
we ide cal ons for our ach to ing the ies , her ith tal lts ing hat ive ing ith vms can tly uce the eed for led ing ces .
we all use ext ion as a ing ple out his per .
his is the ask of ing to ich pre - ned pic a ven ext ent ngs .
ext ion has an ant ole to lay , lly ith the ent ion of ily ble ext ata .
ere ave een any hes to eve his oal ( hio , 123 , ais et al . , 123 , ani , 123 ) .
ore , it is lso a ain in ich vms ave own ble ess ( ims , 123 , ais et al . , 123 ) and it is of est to see her ive ing can oer her ent ver his ady hly ive
the der of the per is red as ows .
ion 123 ses the use of vms oth in rms of ion and ion .
ion 123 hen ces the ion of a ion ace and ion 123 des cal ion for ree ods for ing ive ing ith vms .
in ion 123 we ent tal lts for two eal - rld ext ins hat ate hat ive ing can tly uce the eed for led ces in ice .
we ude in ion 123 ith ome ion of the ial nce of our lts and ome ons for ure ork .
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ure 123 : ( a ) a ple ear ort tor ine .
( b ) a svm ( ted ine ) and a
ive svm ( lid ine ) .
lid les ent led ces .
ort tor nes
ort tor nes ( nik , 123 ) ave ong cal ons and ent cal ses .
hey ave een ied to sks uch as ten git ion , ect ion , and ext ion .
123 vms for ion we all der vms in the ary ion ing .
we are ven ing ata ( 123 .
xn ) hat are ors in ome ace x rd .
we are lso ven eir els ( 123 .
yn ) ere yi ( 123 , 123 ) .
in eir est orm , vms are nes hat ate the ing ata by a mal gin ( see fig .
all ors ing on one ide of the ane are led as 123 , and all ors ing on the her ide are led as 123
the ing ces hat lie est to the ane are led ort ors .
ore lly , vms low one to ect the nal ing ata in ace x to a her nal ure ace f via a cer nel tor k .
in her rds , we der the set of ers of the orm :
hen k ses ers ion ( ges , 123 ) we can ite : k ( u , v ) = ( u ) ( v ) ere : x f and tes an ner uct .
we can hen ite f as :
f ( x ) = w ( x ) , ere w =
hus , by ing k we are tly ing the ing ata nto a ent ( ten her nal ) ure ace f .
the svm hen tes the is hat ond to the mal gin ane in f .
by ing ent nel ons we can
ong and ler
tly ect the ing ata rom x nto ces f for ich nes in f ond to ore lex ion ies in the nal ace x .
two nly sed els are the ial nel ven by k ( u , v ) = ( u v + 123 ) p ich ces ial ies of ree p in the nal ace x 123 and the ial sis ion nel k ( u , v ) = ( e ( uv ) ( uv ) ) ich ces ies by ing ted ans pon key ing ces .
for the ity of his per we ill ume hat the lus of the ing ata ure ors are ant , i . e . , for all ing ces xi , ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) = for ome xed .
the ity ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) is ays ant for ial sis ion els , and so the ion has no ect for his nel .
for ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) to be ant ith the ial els we ire hat ( cid : 123 ) xi ( cid : 123 ) be ant .
it is ble to lax his int on ( xi ) and we all uss his at the end of ion 123
123 vms for ion the ous ion ked hin the ork of ion .
ere was a led ing set of ata and the ask was to ate a ier hat uld ave ood nce on een est ata .
in ion to lar ion , vms can lso be sed for duc - ion .
ere we are rst ven a set of oth led and led ata .
the ing ask is to ign els to the led ata as ely as ble .
vms can orm ans - ion by ing the ane hat zes the gin ive to oth the led and led ata .
see ure 23b for an ple .
tly , ive vms ( vms ) ave een sed for ext ion ( ims , 23b ) , ing ome nts in ion / all ven nce ver lar ive vms .
ion ace
ven a set of led ing ata and a cer nel k , ere is a set of nes hat ate the ata in the ced ure ace f .
we all his set of ent ses the ion ace ( ell , 123 ) .
in her rds , sis f is in ion ace if for ery ing nce xi ith bel yi we ave hat f ( xi ) > 123 if yi = 123 and f ( xi ) < 123 if yi = 123
ore lly : ion 123 our set of ble ses is ven as :
f | f ( x ) =
ere w w
ere our ter ace w is ply ual to f .
the ion ace , v is hen ned
v = ( f h | i ( 123 .
n ) yif ( xi ) > 123 ) .
ice hat nce h is a set of nes , ere is a ion een nit ors w and ses f in h .
hus we ill ene v as :
v = ( w w | ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123 , yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 , i = 123
we ave not ced a ias ght in eq .
hus , the ple ean ner uct ill uce nes hat ass ugh the gin .
ver , a ial nel of ree one ces nes hat do not eed to ass ugh the gin .
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ure 123 : ( a ) ion ace ity .
the ace of the ere nts nit ght ors .
ach of the two nes nds to a led ing nce .
ach ane cts the rea on the ere in ich ent hy - ses can lie .
ere , the ion ace is the ace ent of the ere est to the era .
( b ) an svm ier in a ion ace .
the ark em - ded ere is the est ius ere ose ter ies in the ion ace and ose ace oes not ect ith the nes .
the ter of the em - ded ere nds to the svm , its ius is nal to the gin of the svm in f , and the ing nts ing to the nes hat it hes are the ort ors .
ote hat a ion ace nly sts if the ing ata are rly ble in the ure ace .
hus , we ire ear ity of the ing ata in the ure ace .
his ion is uch ess rsh han it ght at rst eem .
rst , the ure ace ten has a ery igh ion and so in any ses it lts in the ata set ing rly ble .
ond , as ted by awe - lor and ini ( 123 ) , it is ble to ify any nel so hat the ata in the new ced ure ace is rly 123
ere sts a ity een the ure ace f and the ter ace w ( nik , 123 , ich et al . , 123 ) ich we all ake age of in the ext ion : nts in f ond to nes in w and ice rsa .
by ion , nts in w ond to nes in f .
the ion ind the rse is hat ing a ing nce xi in the ure ace cts the set of ing nes to nes hat ify xi tly .
in act , we can how hat the set 123
his is one by ing for all ing ces xi : k ( xi , xi ) k ( xi , xi ) + ere is a ive ion ant .
his lly ves the ame ect as the oft gin ror ion ( tes and nik , 123 ) nly sed in vms .
it its the ing ata to be rly non - ble in the nal ure ace .
ong and ler
of ble nts w in w is ted to lie on one ide of a ane in w .
ore lly , to how hat nts in f ond to nes in w , ose we are ven a new ing nce xi ith bel yi .
hen any ing ane ust sfy yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123
now , ead of ing w as the mal tor of a ane in f , ink of ( xi ) as ing the mal tor of a ane in w .
hus yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 nes a alf ace in w .
ore w ( xi ) = 123 nes a ane in w hat cts as one of the ies to ion ace v .
ice hat the ion ace is a ted ion on the ace of a ere in ter ace .
see ure 23a for an ple .
vms nd the ane hat zes the gin in the ure ace f .
one way
to ose his ion ask is as ows :
( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123
yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 i = 123
by ing the ons ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123 and yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 we use the ion to lie in the ion ace .
now , we can iew the ove lem as ing the int w in the ion ace hat zes the nce : ini ( yi ( w ( xi ) ) ) .
rom the ity een ure and ter ace , and nce ( cid : 123 ) ( xi ) ( cid : 123 ) = , ach ( xi ) / is a nit mal tor of a ane in ter ace .
use of the nts yi ( w ( xi ) ) > 123 i = 123 .
n ach of ese nes mit the ion ace .
the ion yi ( w ( xi ) ) can be
the nce een the int w and the ane ith mal tor ( xi ) .
hus , we ant to nd the int w in the ion ace hat zes the mum nce to any of the ing nes .
hat is , vms nd the ter of the est ius ere ose ter can be ced in the ion ace and ose ace oes not ect ith the nes ing to the led ces , as in ure 23b .
the als of the nes hat are hed by the mal ius ere are the ( xi ) for ich the nce yi ( w ( xi ) ) is mal .
now , ing the nal her han the ual iew , and ing w as the nit mal tor of the svm and ( xi ) as nts in ure ace , we see hat the nes hat are hed by the mal ius ere ond to the ort ors ( i . e . , the led nts hat are est to the svm ane ary ) .
the ius of the ere is the nce rom the ter of the ere to one of the ing nes and is ven by yi ( w ( xi ) / ) ere ( xi ) is a ort tor .
now , ing w as a nit mal tor of the svm and ( xi ) as nts in ure ace , we ave hat the nce yi ( w ( xi ) / ) is :
the nce een ort tor ( xi ) and the ane ith mal tor w ,
ich is the gin of the svm ded by .
hus , the ius of the ere is nal to the gin of the svm .
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ive ing
it is med hat in ool - sed ive ing we ave a ool of led ces .
the ces x are tly and lly ted ing to ome ing ion f ( x ) and the els are ted ing to ome nal ion p ( y | x ) .
ven an led ool u , an ive ner ( cid : 123 ) has ree nts : ( f , q , x ) .
the rst ent is a ier , f : x ( 123 , 123 ) , ned on the ent set of led ata x ( and bly led ces in u too ) .
the ond ent q ( x ) is the ing ion hat , ven a ent led set x , des ich nce in u to ery ext .
the ive ner can urn a ier f ter ach ery ( ine ing ) or ter ome xed ber of ies .
the ain nce een an ive ner and a ive ner is the ing ent q .
his ngs us to the sue of how to ose the ext led nce to ery .
lar to ung et al .
( 123 ) , we use an ach hat ies nts so as to mpt to uce the ize of the ion ace as uch as ble .
we ake a pic ach hat ily ses the ext ery sed on his ion .
we lso ote hat pia is a ard ion sed in ial ion ing ems itz and dge ( 123 ) , mbe ( 123 ) , man et al .
( 123 ) .
we eed two ore ons ore we
ion 123 rea ( v ) is the ace rea hat the ion ace v ies on the per - ere ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) = 123
ion 123 ven an ive ner ( cid : 123 ) , let vi ote the ion ace of ( cid : 123 ) ter i ies ave een ade .
now , ven the ( i + 123 ) th ery 123 , ene :
i = vi ( w w | ( w ( 123 ) ) > 123 ) , i = vi ( w w | + ( w ( 123 ) ) > 123 ) .
i and v +
123 and 123 ely .
i ote the ing ion ces hen the ext ery 123 is led as
we ish to uce the ion ace as ast as ble .
ely , one ood way of ing his is to ose a ery hat ves the ion ace .
the low mma ays hat , for any ven ber of ies , the ner hat ses ive ies hat ves the ion ces is the ner hat zes the mum ted ize of the ion ace , ere the mum is ken ver all nal ons of y ven x :
ong and ler
mma 123 ose we ave an put ace x , ite nal ure ace f ( ced via a nel k ) , and ter ace w .
ose ive ner ( cid : 123 ) ays ies ces ose ing nes in ter ace w ves the rea of the ent ion ace .
let ( cid : 123 ) be any her ive ner .
ote the ion ces of ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) ter i ies i and vi ely .
let p ote the set of all nal ons of y ven x .
i n+ sup
i ) ) sup
ith ict ity ver ere sts a ery j ( 123 .
i ) by ( cid : 123 ) hat oes not lve ion ace 123
the oof is ard .
the ner , ( cid : 123 ) ays ses to ery ces hat lve the ion ace .
hus rea ( v i ) no ter hat the ing of the ery nts are .
let r ote the ion of ure ace f .
hen r is lso the ion of the ter ace w .
let sr ote the ace rea of the nit ere of ion r .
hen , der any nal ion p , rea ( v
123 ) = 123
i ) = sr / 23i .
now , ose ( cid : 123 ) oes not ays ery an nce hat ves the rea of the ion ace .
hen ter ome ber , k , of ies ( cid : 123 ) rst ses to ery a int 123 hat oes not lve the ent ion ace vk .
let 123 ( 123 , 123 ) ond to the ing of 123 hat ill use the ger alf of the ion ace to be sen .
k ) and so 123 = 123
ote hat
k ) = sr / 23k , so we ave hat rea ( v
k ) > rea ( v +
k ) + rea ( v +
out oss of ity ume rea ( v
now der the nal ion 123 :
k ) > sr / 123
123 ( 123 | x ) =
if x ( cid : 123 ) = 123 if x = 123
hen der his ion , i > k ,
nce , i > k ,
i ) ) > sup
now , ose w w is the nit ter tor ing to the svm hat we uld ave ned had we own the ual els of all of the ata in the ool .
we now hat w ust lie in ach of the ion ces 123 123 123 .
. , ere vi tes the ion ace ter i ies .
hus , by ing the ize of the ion ace as uch as ble ith ach ery , we are ing as ast as ble the ace in ich w can lie .
nce , the svm hat we arn rom our ted ber of ies ill lie ose to w .
if one is ing to ume hat ere is a sis ing hin h hat tes the ata and hat the ing sis is tic and hat the ata are ise ree , hen ong ion nce ies of an thm hat ves ion ace can lso be own ( und et al . , 123 ) .
for ple one can how hat the ion ror ses lly ith the ber of ies .
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ure 123 : ( a ) ple gin ill ery b .
( b ) ple gin ill ery a .
ure 123 : ( a ) min gin ill ery b .
the two vms ith ins m and m+ for b are own .
( b ) tio gin ill ery e .
the two vms ith ins m and m+ for e are own .
his ion des ion for an ach ere we ery ces hat lit the ent ion ace nto two ual rts as uch as ble .
ven an led nce x rom the ool , it is not cal to tly ute the zes of the new ion ces v and v + ( i . e . , the ion ces ned hen x is led as 123 and 123 ely ) .
we ext ent ree ays of ing his ure .
ple gin .
all rom ion 123 hat , ven ome ata ( 123 .
xi ) and els ( 123 .
yi ) , the svm nit tor wi ned rom his ata is the ter of the est ere hat can t ide the ent ion ace vi .
the ion of wi in the ion ace vi rly nds on the ape of the ion vi , ver it is ten ely in the ter of the ion ace .
now , we can est ach of the led ces x in the ool to see how ose eir ing nes in w ome to the lly ced wi .
the ser a ane in w is to the int wi , the ore lly it is ced in the ion ace , and the ore it cts the ion ace .
hus we can ick the led nce in the ool ose ane
ong and ler
in w mes est to the tor wi .
for ach led nce x , the est nce een its ane in w and the tor wi is ply the nce een the ure tor ( x ) and the ane wi in ich is ily ted by |wi ( x ) | .
his lts in the ral ule : arn an svm on the ing led ata and ose as the ext nce to ery the nce hat mes est to the ane in f .
ure 23a nts an ion .
in the zed ure we ave ned out the ace of the nit ght tor ere hat ars in ure 23a .
the ite rea is ion ace vi ich is ded by lid nes ing to led ces .
the ve ted nes ent led ces in the ool .
the cle nts the est ius ere hat can t in the ion ace .
ote hat the ges of the cle do not uch the lid ust as the ark ere in 23b oes not eet the nes on the ace of the ger ere ( hey eet ere der the ace ) .
the nce b is est to the svm wi and so we ill ose to ery b .
min gin .
the ple gin hod can be a her ugh ion .
it ies on the ion hat the ion ace is rly ric and hat wi is lly ced .
it has een ted , oth in ory and ice , hat ese ons can ail tly ( ich et al . , 123 ) .
eed , if we are not ful we may lly ery an nce ose ane oes not ven ect the ion ace .
the min ion is ned to ome ese ems to ome ree .
ven ome ata ( 123 .
xi ) and els ( 123 .
yi ) , the svm nit tor wi is the ter of the est ere hat can t ide the ent ion ace vi and the ius mi of the ere is 123 to the ize of the gin of wi .
we can use the ius mi as an ion of the ize of the ion ace ( nik , 123 ) .
ose we ave a ate led nce x in the ool .
we can ate the ive ize of the ing ion ace v by ing x as 123 , ing the svm ned rom ing x to our led ing ata and ing at the ize of its gin m .
we can orm a lar ion for v + by ing x as ass 123 and ing the ing svm to ain gin m+ .
nce we ant an ual lit of the ion ace , we ish rea ( v ) and rea ( v + ) to be lar .
now , der min ( rea ( v ) , rea ( v + ) ) .
it ill be all if rea ( v ) and rea ( v + ) are ery ent .
hus we ill der min ( m , m+ ) as an ion and we ill ose to ery the x for ich his ity is est .
nce , the min ery thm is as ows : for ach led nce x ute the ins m and m+ of the vms ned hen we bel x as 123 and 123 ly; hen ose to ery the led nce for ich the ity min ( m , m+ ) is est .
res 23b and 23a how an ple ing the ple gin and min gin
tio gin .
his hod is lar in rit to the min gin hod .
we use m and m+ as ons of the zes of v and v + .
ver , we all try to
to ase ion , out oss of ity we all ume the the ant of ity is 123 , i . e . ,
the ius is ual to the gin .
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ake nto unt the act hat the ent ion ace vi may be ite ted and for ome x in the ool oth m and m+ may be all ply use of the ape of ion ace .
hus we ill ead ook at the ive zes of m and m+ and ose to ery the x for ich min ( m
m ) is est ( see ure 23b ) .
m+ , m+
the ove ree ods are ons to the ing ent hat ays ves ion ace .
ter ing ome ber of ies we hen urn a ier by ing a svm ith the led ces .
the gin can be sed as an ion of the ion ace ize ive of her the ure ors ave ant lus .
hus the ion for the min and tio ods ill lds ven out the int on the lus of the ing ure ors .
the ple hod can ill be sed hen the ing ure ors do not ave ant lus , but the ing ion no ger lds nce the mal gin ane can no ger be wed as the ter of the est ble ere .
ver , for the ple hod , ive ons ave tly een sed by ell et al .
( 123 ) hat do not ire the int on the lus .
for ive ing , ter ing ome ber of ies we hen urn a ssi - er by ing a svm ith the led ces .
for ive ing , ter ing ome ber of ces we hen urn a ier by ing a ive svm ith the led and led ces .
for our cal ion of the ove ods we sed two eal - rld ext ion ins : the ers - 123 ata set and the ups ata set .
123 ers ata ion nts
the ers - 123 ata 123 is a nly sed ion of ire ies zed nto and - led ics .
ach ews ory has een and - led ith ome ber of pic els uch as orn , eat and ate ons .
ote hat ome of the ics lap and so ome les ong to ore han one ory .
we sed the 123 les rom the pte lit of the 123 and , to tay ble ith ous ies , we red the top ten ost tly ing ics .
we ned ten ent ary ers , one to ish ach pic .
ach ent was ted as a med , idf - ted ord ncy tor . 123 ach tor had nit lus .
a top ist of mon rds was sed and rds ing in wer han ree nts ere lso red .
ing his ion , the ent ors had out 123 ons .
we rst red the ree ing ods in the ive ing ing
est set ted of the 123 nts ent in the pte est set .
ned rom www . rch . att . com / wis .
the ers - 123 ion mes ith a set of ned ing and est set its .
the nly pte lit ers out ate les and ose out a led pic , and hen ses ier les as the ing set and ter les as the est set .
we sed bow ( lum , 123 ) for ext ing .
ong and ler
led ing set ize
led ing set ize
ure 123 : ( a ) age est set acy ver the ten ost tly ing ics hen ing a ool ize of 123
( b ) age est set ion / all ven int ver the ten ost tly ing ics hen ing a ool ize of 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
ble 123 : age est set acy ver the top ten ost tly ing ics ( ost ent pic rst ) hen ned ith ten led nts .
ace tes
for ach of the ten ics we med the ing eps .
we ted a ool of led ata by ing 123 nts rom the ing ata and ing eir els .
we hen mly ted two nts in the ool to ive as the ial led ing set .
one ent was out the red pic , and the her ent was not out the pic .
hus we ave ach ner 123 led nts and 123 led nts .
ter a xed ber of ies we ked ach ner to urn a ier ( an
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
ble 123 : age est set ion / all ven int ver the top ten ost tly ing ics ( ost ent pic rst ) hen ned ith ten led ocu - nts .
ace tes cal nce .
svm ith a ial nel of ree 123 ned on the led ing nts ) .
we hen ted the ier on the ent est set .
the ove ure was ted rty mes for ach pic and the lts ere ged .
we red the ple gin , min gin and tio gin ing ods as ell as a dom ple hod .
the dom ple hod ply ran - mly ses the ext ery int rom the led ool .
his ast hod cts hat ens in the lar ive ing the ing set is a dom ing of
to ure nce we sed two ics :
est set ion ror and , to tay ble ith ous ers pus lts , the ion / all ven int ( ims , 123 ) .
ion is the age of nts a ier els as ant hat are lly ant .
all is the age of ant nts hat are led as ant by the ier .
by ing the ion old on the svm we can ade pre - ion for all and can ain a ion / all rve for the est set .
the ion / all ven int is a one ber ary of his aph : it is the int at ich ion
res 23a and 23b ent the age est set acy and ion / all ven nts ver the ten ics as we ary the ber of ies ted .
the tal ine is the nce vel ved hen the svm is ned on all 123 led nts ing the ool .
ver the ers pus , the ree ive ing ods orm ost lly ith tle ble nce to ish een hem .
ach hod lso bly rms dom ing .
les 123 and 123 how the est set acy and ven nce of the ive ods ter hey ave ked for ust ght led ces ( so , her ith the ial two dom ces , hey ave een ten led ces ) .
hey ate hat the ree ive ods orm rly on his
for svm and ive svm ing we sed ght ims ( 23a ) .
ong and ler
led ing set ize
led ing set ize
ure 123 : ( a ) age est set acy ver the ten ost tly ing ics hen ing a ool ize of 123
( b ) age est set ion / all ven int ver the ten ost tly ing ics hen ing a ool ize of 123
ers ata set ter ght ies , ith the min and tio ing a ery ght dge in nce .
the ast mns in ach ble are of ore est .
hey how ely how any ces uld be ded if we ere to use dom to eve the ame vel of nce as the tio ive ing hod .
in his nce , ive ing on age res ver six mes as uch ata to eve ble els of nce as the ive ing ods .
the les ate hat ive ing des ore net ith the ent ses , rly hen ing nce by the ion / all ven int .
his ast ion has lso een ted ore in ous cal sts ( lum and gam , 123 ) .
we ced hat ely alf of the ies hat the ive ing ods ked ded to urn out to be ely led , ess of the rue all ion of ive ces in the ain .
we ted her the ins hat the ive ing ods had ver lar dom ing ere due to his sed ing .
we ted a new ing hod led dom ich uld mly ple an ual ber of ive and ive ces rom the ool .
sly in ice the ity to mly ple an ual ber of ive and ive ces out ing to bel an ire ool of ces rst may or may not be ble ing pon the ain in ion .
res 23a and 23b how the age acy and ven int of the dom hod red ith the tio ive hod and lar dom hod on the ers set ith a ool of 123 led ces .
the tio and dom ves are the ame as ose own in res 23a and 23b .
the min and ple ves are ted to ase ity .
the dom hod has a uch bet - ter ion / all ven nce han the lar dom hod , ugh it is ill hed and hen med by the ive hod .
for ion acy , the dom hod lly has ely oor nce ( ess han 23% ich is
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ure 123 : ( a ) age est set acy ver the ten ost tly ing ics hen ing a ool zes of 123 and 123
( b ) age ven int ver the ten ost tly ing ics hen ing a ool zes of 123 and 123
ven rse han ure dom ing ) and is ays tly and tly out - med by the ive hod .
his tes hat the nce ins of the ive ods are not ely due to eir ity to ias the ass of the ces hey ies .
the ive ods are ing ial ted ces and ely alf of ese ces pen to ave ive els .
res 23a and 23b how the age acy and ven int of the tio hod ith two ent ool zes .
rly the dom ing ods nce ill not be ted by the ool ize .
ver , the phs ate hat ing the ool of led ata ill ove oth the acy and ven nce of ive ing .
his is ite ive nce a ood ive hod uld be ble to ake age of a ger ool of ial ies and ask ore ted ons .
we lso ted ive ing in a ive ing .
ere we ied the nts as ual ept now ach hod ( ple and dom ) ned a ive svm ned on oth the led and ing led ata in the ool .
as bed by ims ( 123 ) the ven int for a svm was ted by lly ing the ber of led ces hat we hed the svm to bel as ive .
his les re - ing the svm ple mes and was lly ive .
nce our ing was ion , the nce of ach ier was red on the ool of ata her han a ate est set .
his cts the nce ack ive nce ple ted in the ion .
ure 123 ows hat ing a svm des a ght age ver a lar svm in oth ing ods ( dom and ple ) hen ing ven nts .
ver , the aph lso ows hat ive ing des bly ore net han ion eed ing a svm ith a dom ing hod eds ver 123 ies to eve
ong and ler
led ing set ize
ure 123 : age ool set ion / all ven int ver the ten ost tly
ing ics hen ing a ool ize of 123
led ing set ize
led ing set ize
ure 123 : ( a ) age est set acy ver the ve omp .
ics hen ing a ool ize of 123
( b ) age est set acy for omp . sys . ibm . pc . are ith a 123
the ame ven nce as a lar svm ith a ple hod hat has nly een 123 led ces .
123 ups nts
our ond ata ion was k .
ngs ups ion ang ( 123 ) .
we sed the ve omp .
ups , ing the net ers and ect nes .
we sed the ext nts tly as ore , ing in ors of out 123 ons .
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ure 123 : ( a ) a ple ple of ing led ers .
( b ) cro - age est set acy for omp . os . ms - ows . isc and omp . sys . ibm . pc . are ere rid ses the tio hod for the rst ten ies and ple for the est .
we ced alf of the 123 nts ide to use as an ent est set , and dly , mly ose a ool of 123 nts rom the ing ces .
we med nty uns for ach of the ve ics and ged the lts .
we sed est set acy to ure nce .
ure 23a ins the ing rve ( ged ver all of the lts for the ve omp .
ics ) for the ree ive ing ods and dom ing .
ain , the tal ine tes the nce of an svm hat has een ned on the ire ool .
ere is no ble nce een the min and tio ods but , in two of the ve ups ( omp . sys . ibm . pc . are and omp . os . ms - ows . isc ) the ple ive ing hod rms bly rse han the min and tio ods .
ure 23b ows the age ing rve for the omp . sys . ibm . pc . are pic .
in und ten to een per ent of the uns for oth of the two ups the ple hod was led and med ely rly ( for nce , ing nly 23% acy ven ith fty ing ces , ich is rse han ust mly ing a bel ! ) .
his tes hat the ple ing hod may be ore ble han the her two ods .
one son for his uld be hat the ple hod nds not to ore the ure ace as ely as the her ive ods , and can end up ing ire ers of led ces .
in ure 23a , the ple hod kes ral ies ore it ven ers an nce in the led ter ile oth the min and tio ery a int in the led ter ely .
ile min and tio ear ore ble hey are uch ore lly in - ive .
ith a rge ool of s ces , hey ire out 23s vms to be ned for ach ery .
ost of the nal ost is red hen the ber of ies hat ave ady een ked is rge .
the son is hat the ost of ing an svm ows omi - lly ith the ize of the led ing set and so now ing ach svm is tly ( ing
ong and ler
ery ple min tio rid
ble 123 : cal run mes in nds for the ive ods on the ups set
ver 123 nds to ate the 3th ery on a sun tra 123 mhz ion ith a ool of 123 nts ) .
ver , hen the ity of led ata is all , ven ith a rge ool ize , min and tio are rly ast ( ing a few nds per ery ) nce now ing ach svm is rly eap .
gly , it is in the rst ten ies hat the ple ems to uer the ost ugh its ack of ive ion .
his tes a rid hod .
we can use min or tio for the rst few ies and hen use the ple hod for the est .
nts ith the rid hod how hat it ins the ity of the min and tio ods ile ing the ity of the ple hod .
ure 23b res the rid hod ith the tio and ple ods on the two ups for ich the ple hod med rly .
the est set acy of the rid hod is lly cal to hat of the tio hod ile the rid ods run ime was out the ame as the ple hod , as ted by ble 123
ted ork
ere ave een ral ies of ive ing for ion .
the ery by com - tee thm ( ung et al . , 123 , und et al . , 123 ) ses a ior ion ver ses .
his ral thm has een ied in ins and ith ers for ich ing and ing rom a ior ion is ral .
hey ave een sed ith tic els ( gan and son , 123 ) and lly ith the ive yes del for ext ion in a ian ing ing ( lum and gam , 123 ) .
the ive yes ier des an ble del and led ays to rpo - ate ior dge and ata ith ing ues .
ver , it lly oes not orm as ell as ive ods uch as vms , rly in the ext ion do - ain ( ims , 123 , ais et al . , 123 ) .
we re - ted lum and ams ( 123 ) tal tup on the ers - 123 pus and red the ted lts rom eir thm ( ich we all all the mn - thm ter ) ith urs .
in ine ith eir tal tup , ies ere ked ve at a ime , and his was ved by ing the ve ces est to the ent ane .
ure 23a res lum and ams ted lts ith urs .
the aph tes hat the ive svm nce is tly ter han hat of the
an ive tee ach to ery by tee was red by ere and lli ( 123 , 123 ) .
ugh eir thm ( lt - thm ter ) cks the the -
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
svm ple ive
led ing set ize
svm ple ive thm now ive thm now ive
led ing set ize
ure 123 : ( a ) age ven int nce ver the orn , ade and acq ers - 123 ies .
( b ) age est set acy ver the top ten ers - 123
cal ons of the ery by tee thm , hey lly sed eir tee sed ive ing hod ith now ers in the ext ion ain .
ure 23b was ced by ing eir tal tup on the ers - 123 ata set and it res eir ted lts ith urs .
eir thm oes not ire a ive and ive nce to eed eir ier .
her han ing our ive svm ith a ive and ive nce ( ich uld ive the ive svm an air age ) the ive svm mly led 123 nts for its rst 123 ies .
his ess lly eed hat the ing set ned at ast one osi - ive nce .
the ive svm hen ded to ery ces ely ing the ple hod .
ite the ery ive ion icy for the ive svm , the aph ows hat the ive svm acy is tly ter han hat of the lt - thm .
wis and ale ( 123 ) ced nty ing and ied it to a ext ain ing tic ion and , in a ion per , ing ion ees ( wis and ett , 123 ) .
the ple ing hod for svm ive ing is lly the ame as eir nty ing hod ( ose the nce hat our ent ier is ost cer - ain out ) , ver hey ded lly ess ion as to why the thm uld be ive .
hey lso ted hat the nce of the nty ing hod can be ble , ing ite rly on ons .
two her ies ( ell et al . , 123 , ohn and ohn , 123 ) tly de - ped our ple hod for ive ing ith ort tor nes and ded ent mal ses .
ell , ini and ola end eir sis for the ple hod to ver the use of oft gin vms ( tes and nik , 123 ) ith lin - rly non - ble ata .
ohn and ohn ote ing ors of the ive ing ves in the nce of ers .
ong and ler
ons and ure ork
we ave ced a new thm for ing ive ing ith vms .
by ing age of the ity een ter ace and ure ace , we ved at ree hms hat mpt to uce ion ace as uch as ble at ach ery .
we ave own lly hat ese ues can ide ble ins in oth the ive and ive sin ome ses ing the eed for led ces by ver an der of ude , and in ost all ses ing the nce ble on the ire ool ing een nly a ion of the ata .
ore , ger ols of led ata ove the ity of the ing ier .
of the ree ain ods ted , the ple hod is lly the est .
ver , the ple hod ems to be a her and ore ble ion , as we sed hen it med rly on two of the ve oup ics .
if ing ach ery is ive ive to ing ime hen ing her the min or tio may be ble .
ver , if the ost of ing ach ery is ely eap and ore sis is ced pon ast ack hen the ple hod may be ore ble .
in her ase , we ave own hat the use of ese ods for ing can lly orm ard ive ing .
ore , nts ith the rid hod ate hat it is ble to ine the ets of the tio and ple ods .
the ork ted ere ads us to any ons of est .
ral ies ave ted hat ins in nal eed can be ned at the nse of ion nce by ing ple ces at a ime ( wis and ale , 123 , lum and gam , 123 ) .
ing vms in rms of the ion ace ves an ght as to ere the ons are ing ade , and his may ide a ide as to ich ple ces are ter to ery .
for nce , it is mal to ery two ces ose ion ace nes are rly lel to ach her .
so , ith the ple hod , ead of dly ing to ery the two ces hat are the est to the ent svm , it may be ter to ery two ces hat are ose to the ent svm and ose nes in the ion ace are rly lar .
lar eos can be ade for the tio and min ods .
yes int nes ( ich et al . , 123 ) ely nd the ter of ass of the ion ace .
ing the ple hod ith his int her han the svm int in the ion ace may uce an ent in nce and ity .
the use of nte rlo ods to ate ion ace eas may lso ive nts .
one way of ing the egy of ays ing to lve the ion ace is hat we ave lly ced a orm ion ver the ent ace of ent ses and we ish to uce the ted ize of the ion ace as ast as ble .
her han ing a orm ion ver ent ses , it is ble hat the ion of ior dge ver our ses ace may low us to ify our ery thm and ded us ith an ven ter egy .
ore , the pac - ian ork ced by ter ( 123 ) ers the ect of ior dge on ion nds and his ach may ead to cal ees for the ied ing hms .
lly , the tio and min ods are lly ive nce hey ave to tep ugh ach of the led ata ces and arn an svm for ach ble
svm ive ing ith ons to ext ion
ing .
ver , the ily ied ata ets ill nly ier by one nce rom the nal led ata set and so one can age ing an svm on the nal ata set and hen ing the tal tes to ain the new vms ( ghs and gio , 123 ) for ach of the ble ngs of ach of the led ces .
hus , one uld lly ain a uch ore ent ion of the tio and min ods and nce low ese ive ing hms to ale up to ger ems .
his ork was ted by pas ion nce ram der act to sri nal , and by aro ant 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 der the uri ram ted ach to ent ems .
