ord , ca 123 - 123
the ity hat a dom ual in ssc is lso in ssd .
the ess of the thm re -
dge ion ges bly ect a ade - off een ity and ity .
evi - nce sts hat the ise sen by rip - ion ics is a rly ful one .
ver , ion gic ( as for all nts of rst - der gic ) is ely ted in its ity to ess nty .
in his per , we ent p - sic , a tic ion of the ion gic sic .
ion to cal dge , the age zes ian rks to ess nty out the ba - sic ies of an ual , the ber of ers for its les , and the ies of ese ers .
we ide a ics for p - sic and an ive nce ure for tic ion : ing
ies on nce ons and on our ity to ute ted nce : ing out lar ndi - als as a oup her han as ate und rms .
we how hat the ity of the nce thm is the est hat can be ped for in a age hat nes ion gic ith ian rks .
in lar , if we ict to ian rks hat ort ial ime nce , the ity of our nce ure is lso ial ime .
rst - der gic has een the sis for ost dge rep - ion sms .
its sic als , eir ies , and the ons een lly cap - ure the way in ich ple ode eir dge .
un - ely , it is ely ted in its ity to ent our nty out the rld : a act can nly be own to be rue , own to be lse , or her .
by ast , ost of our dge out the eal rld is not ely rue , but nly rue ith ome ree of nty .
his ita - ion ers rst - der gic ble to a rge nge of
the tal tep in ing his lem was ken by hus ( 123 ) and ern ( 123 ) .
hey ned and zed ays in ich ies can be ded to
rst - der gic , and ied the ics of the ing sms .
eir ork sed on tic ons of ull rst - der gic .
as a nce , ese ics ere own to be hly ble ( uch ore so ven han rst - der gic ) .
ore , hey do not ort a ral and act ion of nce ons , ich are ial to ing ial ons rom a tic dge ase .
ere has een a ent ove rds ing rob - ies nto ess ive ets of rst - der gic .
by and rge , dge ion sms sed on ets of rst - der gic all nto two ies : ule - sed ges , and ect - red sms ( e . g . , ame - sed ges , ion ics ) .
so far , ost ork on tic ons has sed on ent - ing ule - sed ges ( man and iak , 23; ese , 23; ole , 23; ngo et al . , 123 ) .
in his pa - per , we ake a rst tep rds ing ies ith ect - red ges , by ing a lis - tic ion gic .
our age des the ity to ibe ses of als , and to son out the re - ips een ses .
( ary ons ) .
for a ven ala , the vid - als ted toa by ome ler are led her - ers ofa .
ion gic ows us to ibe ses of r - ers of an ual , and the ies of the ers .
ion ics are ets of rst - der gic ith ity hat ave een ned to del ich ass ier - ies .
lly , in a ion gic we gin ith a set of ive pts ( i . e . , ary tes ) and les
als ( lex pts ) sed on eir ies : the ive pts to ich hey ong , the ber of
ion ics ort ion her one lex ept is ays a set of her , and hip her a lar ual is an nce of a ven ept .
ral ems ave een ilt sed on ion log - ics ( e . g . , sic ( man et al . , 123 ) , oom ( gre - gor , 123 ) , and ack ( son , 123 ) ) , and hey ave een sed in ral ons ( e . g . , ( ght et al . , 123 ) ) .
in ion , ral ion ion ems ( e . g . , the ion old ( evy et al . , 123 ) and ims ( ens et al . , 123 ) ) use ion ics to ent the for -
als ind .
by ast , ard ion can nly ell us her his ber is 123 ( d is med byc ) , 123 ( d is int omc ) , or ere in een .
lly cal ( e . g . , ntr - ers of the ame
of rse , the act hat our ion ely ter - nes his ber oes not ily ply hat we can ely ute it in ice .
we how hat the par - lar ion gic and nce ons hat we ave ade lso ble us to lop an ive fer - nce thm for p - sic .
the thm ows the ame ral nes as the nce thm for ard sic , by ing pts as a aph .
ver , in p - sic we ace the cal nce for ing ces of the aph by nce ith ian rks for ing the ity of rts of the aph .
her - ore , in ast to her hms for ing in her rst - der tic sms , our thm ple - nts a orm of ted ing at the vel of les her han at the vel of und rms .
his is ble use our nce ons ble the thm to use ion for als hat are
ual ) .
we how hat , in ome nse , the lex - ity of his thm is the est hat can be ped for in a age hat nes the ive wer of las - sic and ian rks .
in lar , if we ict to ial ime ian rks ( e . g . , ees ( arl , 123 ) ) the ity of our nce thm ins
ral rks ( tri , 23; ger , 23; ohn , 123 ) ave red tic ons of rip - ion ics .
ere , the cus was on ing ial sta - cal ion ing ult tic res uch as opy ion or oss - opy iza - ion , or on ing the mal ons ble rom a all , ete set of tic nts .
by con - ast , our ach ows the ore ent ion , es - hed by ian rks , of ing the tic dge ase ely ify a ity ibu - ion .
the ull ion ach has een own to be oth lly and lly ler .
as we ave sed , lar nal ets are ned in our ork , ich rts an nce thm ich is tly ore ent han ose for the pre - ous rks on tic cal ges .
ive pts ( ary tes ) a and les ( ary ela - ons ) r .
the age ses a set of ors to ild
we rst iey iew the ant of the sic rip - ion gic hat ies p - sic , and hen ibe the ent of p - sic .
lly , we ibe how ese nts ome her to orm a p - sic
123 the ion gic the sic ary of a ion gic sts of rim -
123 the p - sic age
ons , ing new ses of als led com -
ion ces by ing the ass of als con - ned in the ion rce .
for ple , an ual ght be one cle in a hic ase .
to eve the ete wer to a ery , the tem ses ach ion rce ose ion aps ith the de - ion of the ery .
one of the ain ons of ion ics is hat hey can ess ery tle out the lap een two pts .
ven two pts , we can fer hat one sub - mes the her , hat hey are int , or hat hey may ave a non - pty lap .
ver , the ree of the lap not be bed or red .
the eed for uch dge is rly ted in the ion nte - ion ain .
ing ery ion rce ich lly aps ith our ery may be ely ive .
if we ant the tem to nd a rge ion of the ers as oon as ble , it is ery ant to fer the ree of lap een ses of als .
in ral , of rse , the ain sts of any dif - ent pes of als .
it is ely the ase hat the ame ion ill be ate for ach of hem .
for ple , the ion ver the ies of an vid - ual is lly ite ent rom the ion ver the ies of its ers .
ore , the tic com - ent of a p - sic dge ase des a ber of ent p - ses ( tic ses ) , ach of ich is a ian ork ver sic ies , the ber
in his per , we ibe a age , p - sic , ich is a tic ion of the ion gic las - sic .
p - sic ows the ion of a ity ion ver the ies of als .
as the ba - sic nal ool , we use ian rks ( arl , 123 ) .
ian rks low a act and ral rep - ion of lex ity ons by ing nce ons .
in his ase , we use a ian ork ose dom les are the sic ies of als ( the ive pts ) , the ers of eir ers , and the ies of eir ers .
ofr - ers ( for the ent esr ) , and the p - ses c;d , hat is the ity atc lds hin the set of
the ics for p - sic is a ple ion to the ard ics of sic .
ing ( ern , 123 ) , we ret a p - ass as a ity ion ver the nts in the ain .
ely , his nds to the ity of ing ( ing ) his ent in his p - ass .
by ing hat the p - ass ion is as bed in the ing ian ork , and hat ers are sen tly of ach her ( rom the ate p - ass ) , we can how hat our p - ses ely ine the ity of any lex ept .
a p - sic dge ase ows us to wer any tic ion ery : for two lex pts
rom ich the ole ers are sen .
in ion to the tic ent , a p - sic dge ase lso ins a ard cal ent , ing lex pts in rms of ive nes .
in his per we do not der dge ses ith und cts ( i . e . ,
( ion on ive pts )
the non - tic ent of the p - sic lan - age is a ant of the sic ion gic
to ard les .
tes are ary ons ich are nal : ach ual has tly one ler for hat at - ute .
in p - sic we add the ion hat the ler for an ute be one of a ite ied set of als .
lex ons in our age are ilt ing the
sic , we lso low a set of esq in ion ing mar , eaa tes a ive con - ept , rr a ole , qq tes an ute , ndc and d ent ept ons : ( ( cid : 123 ) nr ) j ( ( cid : 123 ) nr ) j ( ber ons ) ogy dt ( the box ) and a set of und mic cts da nce of the rmc : =d , rec is a ame of a ned ept ndd is a ion .
ach ned ept is ion .
a cal orm of a ion is ( cid : 123 ) u ( cid : 123 ) 123 ere ( cid : 123 ) is a ion of ive pts and eir ute ing ore han nce ) , and ( cid : 123 ) r is of the orm ( ( cid : 123 ) mrr ) u ( ( cid : 123 ) nrr ) u ( r : c ) , rec is lso in ion is ned as ows .
the pth of ( cid : 123 ) is 123
the pth of a ept ( cid : 123 ) u ( cid : 123 ) 123 u : : : u ( cid : 123 ) rm is max ( pth ( ( cid : 123 ) ) , pth ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 ) , : : : , pth ( ( cid : 123 ) rm ) ) .
ers iar ith sic ill see hat our age oes not ain ics ame - as tor , but oes ort ion on ive pts hat is not wed in sic .
sic lso ows the lls tor to be ap - ied to les .
it uld be ted hat ing ion on ive pts oes not nge the res - ive wer of ic; it ore ows rom ( ida and tel - der , 123 ) hat ion in the age bed ove can be one in ial ime .
( the box ) .
in his per , we do not der xes .
in sic , a ogy ins two nds of nts : ept ons , ing the ive pts in the ogy , and ept ons , ing the de - ned pts .
in p - sic a ogy des nly the ept ons ( as we ibe tly ) , ile con - ept ons are ven as art of the com - ent of a dge ase .
a ept ion is a sen -
ned by a gle ept ion , and we ume hat mes of ned pts do not ear in the ons . 123 in our sis , we use the cal orm of a rip -
cal orm .
any ion in our age can be ted to cal orm in ear ime .
the pth of a
ons and of ler ons ( ith no ept or
a ion gic dge ase d
des a rmi -
his is not a ion hen the ogy has no les ( as in sic ) use the ons in the ogy can be ded .
ver , as ual , ing a ogy may use its ize to row lly .
ass ( p - ass ) p ies a ity ion ver the hat an ect ngs to ptd ven hat it ngs to ptc ? .
we ite uch ies as pr ( djc ) .
etp of p - ses .
ely , a p - ass nts our rob - ach p - spp is ted ing a ian net - ork ( arl , 123 ) np .
a ian ork is a dag in
ies of als , ing us to ene the ent of the lap een hem .
rom ese ers , and pro - ate tic nce ons , we are ble to uce the ers to ary tic ump - ion ies : ies of the orm hat is the ity
123 the tic ent of p - sic the ain ion for p - sic is to be ble to ess the ree of lap een pts .
a tic
tic ion ing to a ain ass of als .
the tic ent of p - sic sts of a
ich the des ent dom les .
ach ble kes on a lue in ome ned nge .
ach ode in the ork is ted ith a nal ity ta - ble ( cpt ) , ich nes the ity of ach ble lue of the ode , ven ach ion of ues for the des nts in the dag .
the ork ure des the nce ion hat nly the ent ues are ant hen ing his ice .
a ian ork de - nes a int ity ion ver all ons of ues of the les in the ork .
the ity of a lar ent of ues is the uct ver all the des in the ork of the nal ity of the lue of hat ode ven the ues of its nts .
a , - m - a , m - a , - m
ple , der the uth ent ( al; : le;
ure 123 ows art of the ian ork for a p - ass .
his ork ins a ode for ach of the ive pts mal , ble , mal , ore and ore .
the lue of ach ode is her rue or lse , ing on her an ect ngs to the ept or not .
the ork nes a int ity ion ver the set of uth nts to ese pts .
for xam -
ral ing p - ass .
the ian ork for
ted by the uct
of ive pts and eir ons , the ity
: al; re; : ore ) .
its ity is pr ( mal ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( : lej mal ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( : alj mal ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( rej al; : mal ) ( cid : 123 ) pr ( : rej al; ore ) = 123 : 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 : 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 : 123 ( cid : 123 ) 23= 123 : 123 : in ral , np ill ain a ode for ach ive con - taa .
for any onc ich is a ion np ( c ) is ned by the ork .
his ows ple sub - ion ies of the orm pr ( djc ) to be red hen thc ndd are ons of ive pts ion ver ute ues .
for ach teq q , np ins a ode lls ( q ) .
the cpt for a ode sts ome ite set of 23; : : : ;vk , and for hvi , the ity hat ( qvi ) lds ven ach ble ach err , the ork ies the ber of r - ers by ing a ber ( r ) ode , ich kes on ues een 123 and ome per dbr .
the des lue tes the ber ofr - ers hat the ect has .
ich the ers are sen .
hus , for ach ler , the the etp of p - ses .
his ode is ays tic , of an ect .
one of the p - ses , edp ( cid : 123 ) knp ( cid : 123 ) .
as we rse the ian ork rom its
i . e . , for any ion of ues of its nts , tly one p - ass is ned ity 123 , and all her p - ses are ned ity 123
for ity of ion , we ace ome ons on the ogy of the ork .
we ume hat a ber ( r ) ode may nly be a ent of the ing pc ( r ) ode .
the pc ( r ) ode may not be a ent of any her ode .
the tic ent of a p - sic dge ase ely bes a ion ver the ies , is the oot p - ass , ing the ion ver all cts .
the ies of an ect are sen ing to the san
ion of ues for the des nts .
ote hat the ode for an ute lso tes the set of ues hat the ute may ake , and ore can be sed ead of ics one - of tor for tes .
to ibe the ies of the ers , we ply ign a p - ass for ach ole , ich ies the ion rom
to lly ibe an ual , we lso eed to ibe the ber of its ous ers and eir ies
ork ins a pc ( r ) ode , ose lue ges ver
the ork for a p - ass lso nes the ity
and eir ons .
ots own , ach ode lls us the ity ith ich its lue uld be sen .
the oot des are sen ith the ate nal ity , ile the ion sed for her des is ned by ior ces for the ues of eir nts .
in lar , the ork tes how the ber of ers for ach ole is sen ven the sic ies and ute ues .
by ing the p - ass for the ers , the ork ies how the ies of the ers are sen ely ing a lar ess .
as ted ier , sic ows us to ate ept in - ons in its ogy .
in p - sic , ept in - ons can be ted tly in the tic
ion .
for ity of ion , we ume hat
ent of the dge ase ( in act , ept tro - ons are a ial ase of tic ons )
ept ion is a nce of the rma ( cid : 123 ) d , rea is a ame of a ive ept ndd is a ept d oes not ion any of the les .
( in ion 123 we ' 23; : : : ; ' n is a ist of ept ons , hen the de - ion in ' i can nly ion the pts ced in ' 23; : : : ; ' i ( cid : 123 ) 123 , or the ept ing ( ich tes the set of all als ) .
a ept ona ( cid : 123 ) d is ass hat the ity of : dua is 123
nce the ept by ing the pts ing ind nts ofa , and ing the ate ies in the cpt ora to 123
in the ral ing p - ass , pr ( mal ) = 123 : 123 , ile pr ( lej mal ) = 123 , and pr ( lej : mal ) = 123
ese ons ode the ino - and pr ( alj mal ) = 123 : 123
nly als can : mal , mal are ant nce hat ion
ure 123 ows the tic ent of the dge - ase for a ain of ral cts .
ere are ree p - ses , ach ing a ork ing the des mal , ble , mal , ore , ore , lls ( ize ) , ber ( ats ) and pc ( ats ) .
cal dge hat ing is her an mal or a ble , and the two pts are int . 123 in the cpt for mal , we see hat nly als can be als ,
ibe how to ove his ion . ) as in sic , we der ept ons hat are lic , i . e . , if
be res , and als are ore ely han her als to be us; the ies in the umn for
ded in the dge ase by ing in ach p -
ons are lic , we can ode his ion
is ble .
the lls ( ize ) ode tes hat the lue of the ize ute ust be big , ium , or all , and the nal ity of ach lue .
nce les ont eat , ber ( ats ) is ays 123 if ble is rue , ile for non - les ( i . e . , als ) it is a ber be - een 123 and 123 ith the ven ion .
lly , pc ( ats ) nds on ore and ore : for res it is ore ood , for res it is ore ood , ile for ngs ich are her it is ral ing .
nce ing is oth a ore and a ore , hat col - umn is ant .
the ore ood p - ass
ral ing ned on mal ing rue .
hus ble is lse , and the her des nly ain mns hat are ent ith ese cts .
ore ood is the ame as ral ing ndi - ned on ble ing rue .
in his ase the p - ass is tic ept for the lue of lls ( ize ) , nce mal , mal , ore and ore are all lse , and ber ( ats ) is 123
pc ( ats ) is ant nce ere are no ats - ers .
tly ing , the tic ion of his ent is tly ker han the cal ion , use it is ble hat the set of ngs hat are oth mal and ble is non - pty but of ure ero .
ure 123 : p - ses for the ure ain .
a , - m - a , m - a , - m
123 ics of p - sic
the ics of p - sic is an ion of the ics of sic .
the sic ent is an ion .
it gns
oni ins a non - pty noi to ery ala , a ary ion to ery ept eaa , a ary nri to ery err , and a tal ion : o ! o to ery eqq .
the ons as ows ( ) fsg tes the ity of a ets ) : an oni is a del of a ogy dt if for ery ept onc : =d in dt .
a ptc is aid to be med by a ptd w . r . t .
a ogy dt fci ( cid : 123 ) di for ery eli of dt .
ith a ion ver the noi p bes a dom ent : the ion of an ual
in der to end his ics to p - sic , we ave to ide an ion for the p - ses .
ing ( ern , 123 ) , we ret a p - ass as an ive ( sta - cal ) ity . 123 hat is , ach p - ass ill be ted .
ely , a p - ass
of the ons are ned ely on eir ure
3it is lso ble to ibe ics to his age ing ive ies , i . e . , ion ver ble pre - ons .
for our ses , the cal ion is ite ral , and tly ler to ain .
rom the ain .
the ity ith ich an vid - ual is sen nds on its ies ( as ned by the her nts of the ion ) .
rst , a uth ent to the ive pts and an ent of ues to tes is sen , ing to the ity
ion ned in the knp .
ven his ign - ion 123 : eti be ome ion ver our vo - ary .
a ity ion ( cid : 123 ) roi ith a p - ssp if the ing ion lds .
for ery ive onc uch hat : ( a ) for ery ive saa , c ins era or : a as a nct , ( b ) for ery eqq , c ins a nct ( lls qv ) for mev , and ( c ) for ery err , c ins a nct ( =hr ) for ome erh , 123 123 ( cid : 123 ) ( ci ) =np ( c ) , i . e . , the ity of the set of in - als in the ion ofc is the ame as the ity ned toc by the ian ork orp .
for ery ler , der the ent ing of ing an ctx ing to ( cid : 123 ) , ing on the 3we use ( =hr ) as a and for ( ( cid : 123 ) hr ) u ( ( cid : 123 ) hr ) .
ent , the ber of ers for ach ole is sen , ing to the nal ity les of the ber des .
lly , the ies of the ers are sen , ing her dom ent , as bed by the p - ass ned by the pc ode for the ate ole .
our ics ire hat the ity of ing an ent be ent ith his ype of dom ent for ing its ies .
we ave hat :
for a p - sic
ion gic ent and a set of ity dis -
in her rds , the ent ust bed gen - tes the ame ion hen we lso ion on ies of her ers , and ely on the per - ies of ers of her ers , and so on .
his nce ion ies oth to her ers of the ame ole , and to ers of her les .
, and ing one xsr - ers at dom .
his ent tes a new ion ( cid : 123 ) ust be ent thp is the tic lue fnp ( pc ( r ) jc ) .
enc , the ent ers are all ent of ach
we can now ene an nip dge ase to ist of an oni for the , one for ery p - ssp , uch hat ( cid : 123 ) ip is ent thp .
for any ond , we say pj= pr ( d ) = ( cid : 123 ) if ( cid : 123 ) ip ( cid : 123 ) ( d ) = ( cid : 123 ) , rep ( cid : 123 ) ion orr - ers ust ign a non - ero ity to ome ent .
if hat ent is sen as the str - r - ler , eby ing the nce ion .
in an ite ain , on the her and , ( cid : 123 ) ip is a rob - any onc , ere is a que ( cid : 123 ) ( 23; 123 ) uch hat
the ons in ion 123 are ent to uar - tee hat the ity of any ion is ely ned by a p - sic dge ase .
as we ill see , his ult is a nce of the act hat a ian ork ely ies a ity ion , and of our nce ons .
the ing rem is ved by ion on the pth of the cal orm of a rem 123 : for any p - sic dge ase d
ity ure ver the ain .
ile ach ual ent has ity ero of ing ted , the ure gns a non - ero ity to ies of nts .
in act , we can uct a ain of his ype , by ing do - ain nts to ond to the set of ion - gic ies hat hey sfy .
his ion is the sis for the ing rem .
ofs of ems are ted due to ace ons .
his ult ows use the ity and ity of the pts ent us rom ing an ent set of tic nts ( ing ith ect to ino - cal ion ) .
ote hat a ble ion may ign the pty set to ome pts .
one hat ive nce of the nde - nce ion is hat if any ole has non - ero rob - ity of ing ore han one ler , hen any del for the dge ase ust be ite .
in a ite ain , the
rem 123 : a p - sic dge ase is ays sat - ble in ome ion .
ler , hen by the ent hat ent ole - ers be nct , it ust ave ero ity of ing the ond
is the oot
123 nce thm
it is ble to ise a ple thm for ing the
ork rms , his ity is d - ted ( arl , 123 ) rom the est of the ork by ber ( r ) and pc ( r ) .
hus , we can add a ode to the ork ing the
ost of uch a ure uld be ial in the pth of the ept and in the ber of ive pts and tes .
to ain a ble thm , we ake two ons .
rst , ies can be ted tom up , ing ith ons of pth 123
ies of per ons are ted ing the red rob - ies of the ons .
the ond ion is
ity of a ept of the orm ( cid : 123 ) u ( cid : 123 ) 123 u : : : u ( cid : 123 ) rm , by rst ing the ity of ( cid : 123 ) , and hen , ely , ing the ies of ( cid : 123 ) 123 : : : ; ( cid : 123 ) rm .
ver , the hat the ity hat ( cid : 123 ) r lds is ely ned by the ber and p - ass of her - ers .
ent ( cid : 123 ) r , ith the nts ber ( r ) and pc ( r ) .
for ach air of ues ( h;p ) for the nts , we can ute the nal ity of ( cid : 123 ) r enh ndp hen ert as nce hat all the ( cid : 123 ) r old , as ell as ( cid : 123 ) , and ute the ity ofc by ing the ity and ete .
in her rds , for any onc and , it rns the ber ( cid : 123 ) uch thm is ear in the gth ofc and ial in ity is ear in the gth ofc and tic in the ber of p - ses nkb .
if all the ian net - alu ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 ats ) ats . mal ing the rks ins the pth 123 mal .
the rst age of the ion tes rob ( mal ) for
we ely on the ian ork nce thm to ute his ity in the ost ent ner pos - ble .
in lar , if the nal ork is a ree , 123 hus ing ear ime nce , the new ork ill nue to ort ear ime nce ter the for - ion .
the ete thm is own in ure 123
rem 123 : thm ity is und p - sic dge ase d
the ber of p - ses .
it is ant to ote hat the ity of ing in p - sic is no rse han hat of its nts , i . e . , sic and yes ets one .
rem 123 : the ing ime of thm com -
rks for the p - ses are ees , hen the ing ime of ity is lso ial in the ize of the
, and add it to the nal ity ble for the new ode
in ure 123
the pth of his ion is 123 , and it
the ing rem ows hat the ity of the
as an ple , der ing the ity of
of the nce in the ian ork .
ach of the p - ses ral ing , ore ood ese ies are und to and ore od;
23a ree is a ian ork ose ing ted aph is lic , i . e . , ere is nly one ath of nce een any air of des .
ees ort ear ime tic nce ( arl , 123 ) .
, cpt ) dds ode n ith nts p
/ / ode ( bn , n , p / / nal ity ble cpt to ian ork bn .
/ / nce ( bn , n = v ) rts hat n has lue v in bn .
/ / ate ( bn ) tes the ity of the nce in bn .
/ / c is a ion in cal orm .
/ / kb is a p - sic dge ase .
/ / rns ( cid : 123 ) uch bj= ( pr ( c ) = ( cid : 123 ) ) .
orx = 123 pth ( c ) for ach p - ssp and onc of thx inc do : / / pth ( c ) , nly do his for the oot p - ssp ( cid : 123 ) orj : = 123 to m / / kip if m = 123 orh : = 123 obj / / bj is the und on the for ach p - ssp / / ber frj - ers cpt ( ;p; rue ) : = obp ( dj ) h lse cpt ( ;p; rue ) : = 123 cpt ( ;p; lse ) = 123 - cpt ( ;p; rue ) ode ( bn , ( cid : 123 ) rj , p / / i . e . , nce for ach nct in ( cid : 123 ) obp ( c ) = ate ( bn ) obp ( cid : 123 ) ( alu ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 ats ) ats . mal ) .
in his ion , ( cid : 123 ) is mal , and ere is one ( cid : 123 ) mpo - ent ing to the ats ole . p ( cid : 123 ) ral ing .
a ode is ded onp ( cid : 123 ) for ( cid : 123 ) ats , ows the nal ity hat ( cid : 123 ) ats is rue for res hat ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 ats ) , the ies in the rst umn are sly ted lue of bnt ( mal ) .
the ain - ing ies in the rst row are 123 : 123 , 123 : 123 and so on .
rly , the ies for ore ood are 123 , 123 : 123 , bhf ( mal ) = 123
the ity of our ery is mal and ( cid : 123 ) ats to be rue , ing in an wer of rox -
hen ere is tly one ler of the p - ass ral ing , the try is 123 , ich is the evi -
hen ted in the ing ork , by ing mam -
ith the nts ber ( ats ) and pc ( ats ) .
ure 123
ach lue of its nts .
use the ion re -
the ies for ore ood are all 123 use
ure 123 : thm ity
be 123 , 123 and 123 ely .
ext we ate
is the p - ass
ven ues of ber ( ats ) and pc ( ats ) .
nce thm .
in his ion , we uss ral fea - res and ons of the ive wer of p - sic .
we ion ral ble ons oth to the der - ing ion gic and to the tic ent .
we ine the ent to ich ese ons can be ac - ted in our ork and how hey uld ect the ity of ing .
ure 123 : the ity of ( ( cid : 123 ) 123 ats ) u ( ats . mal ) by ing the ity hat the ber of ers isn ing a sed orm onf ( n ) .
the nce lem ite ies ngf ( n ) .
ely , ily ose
123 the ing ion gic p - sic can be ily ded to dle ive pts , ial ion , ion on ary pts ( not nly ive nes ) and ied ber ons .
our ics ide a ell - ned oba - ity for ons ing ese ors .
ver , the nce thm for ing ies for uch ons is tly ore ted , and is no ger ial in the gth of the ion .
his is not ing , nce the wer nds ( np - ess or rse ) of ion in the nce of ese cts ill ply to the tic ion as ell .
her ion , as ned ove , is hat the num - ber of ers for ach ole be ded .
his ion sts for two ons .
rst , it ows us to ely ify the ion ver the ber of ers for a ole .
ond , the nce thm ers all ble ues for the ber of ers , so his ion is red to tee hat the thm tes .
we can ess the rst sue
is hat der .
in ain ses , the thm may be ble to ute a sed orm ion for an in -
ons to the rue ity can be ned by ing a tly ong ite rex of his ies .
the nly tor rom sic hat is not ded in p - sic is ame - as , ich les to ibe ual - ity of ute ths ( e . g . , to ate hat the ath ife . her hes the ame ual as the ath her ) .
uch ies are der to ate nto our age be - use our ics nds ily on the ion hat ent ers are ely ent .
ity of als hed via ent ler ins sly cts his nce ion .
123 ion and ons
the ion in ing p - sic was to lop a ble rst - der tic gic .
to hat end , we ave own hat p - sic has a und , ete and ent
123 the tic ent the ity of our age sts ily on the in - nce ons ade in the tic mpo - ent : ( 123 ) the ies of ent ers are ent ,
and ( 123 ) the ies of an ect and of one of its ers are ent ven the ers p - ass .
for ple , our ons ent us rom ing hat a non - ore ays ats at ast one ble .
uch an ion uld ply hat the ats - ers are not ent , nce if all but one of the ers are not les , the ast one ust be .
hus , ugh we can ( eit at a igh nal ost ) ute the yof any ion ith ons or als , we not ert cal ies ing ese cts out ing the ics .
one ype of ion een ers can lly be alt ith rly ily hin our ork .
ume hat our ary ins the ept thy - to - eat .
we may ant to ert hat the ess of the ari - ous ods ten by a son nds to be ted .
we can ish his by ing a new ept lth - ous and two p - ses ing thy ood and thy ood .
the lue of the ode pc ( ats ) can now end on the lue of lth - ous , in hat a lue of thy ood is ore ely hen lth - ous is rue .
his new ept is a den ept ( ous to a den ble in ian rks ) .
it ays the ame ole as a lar ive ept in the def - ion of the p - ass , but it is not a ive ept in the age and ore oes not ear in the ogy or in ies .
one ing ive ith ter ive wer ses rom our ent ork on nal tic pro - ams ( ler et al . , 123 ) .
the sic dea is hat we iew ach p - ass as a tic ion , and ach ual as a all to the ion for hat ate p - ass .
a all to uch a tic ion ses ( mly ) the per - ies of the ual for ich it is led .
the ies of the ers for an ual are sen by ive lls to the ons for the ate p - ses .
nce we iew a ler as a ion , we can ass the ant ies of the ual ( e . g . , on - a - iet ) as a ter to the ion .
the ers can tly nce the ion of the ler ies .
in our ple of ion 123 , the p - ses for ore ood and ore ood are ent to ose hat uld ave een ned had we sed the lue of mal to the ler as a ter ( ith a lue of rue and lse ely ) .
ats . low - fat .
the ode ing rol - a ( cid : 123 ) d red is an ary lex ept
hat gly , we can ate the nal iew
in ion to ing nts , a tic ion can lso urn ues .
in our ext , his ure uld low ies of an ect to end on ose of its ers .
hus , for ple , we can ave the ity ver the rol - vel ute end on the ual fat ent of the ods ten by the son .
we uld ent his ype of ncy by ing a ode nto the ian ork ing to the lex
vel can now be a ild of his new ode , ing the red ncy .
in ral , we uld ave ers cur - ely ass ack the uth lue of ply ted lex pts .
his ion rts ept ons
of ers rly ily hin our ork , and out a ant ase in nal ost .
we fer ils to the ull ion of his per .
nts we ank red ger for ful ons .
ome of his ork was one ile hne ler and avi fer ere ing t&t rch .
his ork was lso ted ugh the ity of the pow - ell ion , by onr ant 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 , and by rpa act 123 - 123 - c - 123 , der act to ion ion and ort , inc .
