in his per , we ibe an ach for ing nal ion rom oth ene ion and ter nce ata .
we aim to ify nal ets of nes hat are co - ted in a set of nts , ugh a mon tif ole .
ing the em thm , our ach nes oth the ule ent and the tif ole so as to est ain the ion ata as a ion of nal ifs .
it lso lly dds and tes ifs , as red to ide a ome - ide ion of the ion ata .
we ate the hod on two ces iae ene ion ata ets , ing hat our ach is ter han a ard one at ing own ifs and at ing lly ent les .
we lso ine our lts ith ing ion ata to ain ory ips ith own ion ors , and how hat any of the red ips ave ort in the ure .
rds : tic els , ene ion , ran -
any lar ses are ted at the nal vel , by one or ore ion ors hat ind to ort dna nce ifs in the eam ons of the ess nes .
ese co - ted nes hen bit sim - lar rns of ion .
ven the eam ons of all nes , and nts of eir ion der var - ous ons , we uld ope to rse eer the ing ory sms and ify rip - nal ets of nes hat are co - ted der ese ons ugh a mon tif or ion
in his per , we ake a ome - ide ach for dis - ing his lar ion , sed on the ise
to hom nce uld be sed .
hat nal nts uld ain the ved ion rns as uch as ble .
we ene a rob - tic cal del ( arl , 123 ) hat tes oth the ene ion nts and the dna nce ata nto a ied del .
the del mes hat nes are ned nto les , ich ine the nes ion ole .
ach ule is zed by a mo - tif ole , ich ies the nce of ent se - nce ifs to the ule .
a nes ule ent is a ion of the nce ifs in its ter re - ion .
ver , our del oes not ume hat all ifs are ily ive .
in act , as ifs are lly ort , ere are any nes ere a tif is mly ent but oes not lay a ole .
ore , our oal is to dis - ver ifs hat lay a ory ole in ome lar set of ts; a tif hat is ive in ome ngs may be ely ant in ers .
our del nti - es tif nes ere the tif ays an ive ole in ing ion in a lar ion ata set .
ese tif ets are nes hat ave the tif and hat are ned to les ing the tif in eir
our thm is ned in ure 123
it ins by ing the ion ata , ing one ule rom ach of the ing ers .
as the rst mpt rds ing ese ion rns , it hes for a mon tif in the eam ons of nes ned to the ame ule .
it hen ely nes the del , ing to ize the ent to ich the ion ole can be ted lly .
for ple , we ght ant to ove a ene g ose ter ion oes not tch its ent les tif ole , to her ule ose ion ole is ill a ood tch , and ose tif ole is uch ser .
ven ese nts , we uld hen arn ter tif els and tif les for ach ule .
his ent ess ses lly hin our thm , as a uct of the ion ion ( em ) thm for ing the del ers .
ics 123 ( ppl .
123 ) c ( cid : 123 ) ord ity ess 23; all hts ved .
e . gal et al .
nal ule ery ure
ene ons ( go )
ion & sis
tic ow ram of our sed hod .
the pre - ing tep des ing the put ene ion and eam nce ata .
the del is hen ned ing em , and our thm for lly ing and ing ifs .
it is hen ted on nal ata ets .
in ral , the ifs ned ill not fce to har - ize all of the les .
as our oal is to ide a ome - ide ion of the ion ior , our thm ies rly ned nes in les and hes for new ifs in eir eam ons .
the new ifs are hen ded to the del and tly ned ing em .
as art of his mic ing ure , ome ifs may ome ete and are ved rom the del .
the thm tes til nce , ing and ing ifs , and ing tif els and ule nts .
our thm has ral ant ges ver her pts to ate eam ces and res - ion ata .
rst , we use oth ion and nce ata her , ing hat les lay a ent ole for oth .
his ach ows us to ene oth the ter nts and ifs hin the ame thm .
in ast , any hes ( e . g .
zma et al . , 23; liu et al . , 23; oth et al . , 23; nha and mpa , 23; oie et al . , 123 ) use ene ion mea - nts to ene ers of nes hat are lly co - ted , and hen rch for mon ifs in the eam ons of the nes in ach ter .
the ion sis and tif ing are hus led , and her the ers nor the ifs are re - ted nce hey are ned .
her hes ( e . g .
ker et al . , 23; pel et al . , 123 ) ork in the ite ion , rst ing a set of ate ifs , and hen ing to ain the ion ing ese ifs .
ese hes use a ied set of ifs , ich are ver ted ing the thm .
our ach is sed on the ork of gal et al .
( 123 ) but nds it in ral ant ons .
eir ach ade use of dna ion ata , ich are not ely ble for all sms and der ple wth ons .
in ast , we uct els hat are sed ely on nce and ion ata , ich are uch ier to ain .
ond , eir ach sed a ned ber of ifs to uct the del .
to low a ome - ide sis , our thm lly ves and dds ifs as ded to ain the ion ata as a ole .
lly , ile the els of gal et al .
( 123 ) wed for ion of ext - cic ion , the ing ure is ard to ret .
our del gns ach ene to one ule ,
we ted our hod on two nct ces iae ion ets .
we how hat our ned els nd ifs hat unt for a uch ger rac - ion of the ved ion rns in son to ard hes hat rst ter the ion pro - les and hen rch for ifs in the eam ons of the nes in ach ter .
our ach lso ers a uch ger ber of own ifs .
we ted the nal nce of our nal les us - ing a ene nal ion ase and two pro - ein lex ses hat ere not ven to the del as put .
we und ent for any ore ups in our els red to ard hes , ing hat our nal les are lly ore ac - ate .
lly , we sed the ent ing ays of lee et al .
( 123 ) to ate the ual ion ors to the les hey ate , ing in a ory rk; we how hat any of the ory ips cov - red ave ort in the ure .
the sic ies in our del are the nes in ome set g .
ume hat the nes are ned nto a set of k lly ive and ive nal les .
hus , ach ene is ted ith an ute m ( 123 , .
, k ) ose lue nts the ule to ich the ene ngs .
we now ibe how ese les are ted to ion les and to tif
ene ion del for ach ene g in g , we ave ion nts g . 123 , .
, g . e j , ere g . e j nts the log tio rna ion vel red for ene g in ent j .
ume hat all of the nes in a gle ule bit the ame ene ion ior , and use the ple yet ful ive yes del ( man and utz , 123 ) to ent his ior .
in his del , as ied in our ing , we ume hat the ion nts are lly ent ven the ule ent :
p ( 123 , .
, e j | m ) = j ( cid : 123 )
p ( e j | m ) .
as the ion nts are eal - ued , we del ach nal ity ion p ( e j m = m ) ing a ian ion n ( jm; jm ) .
tif del the ond key ent in our del is a set of les hat ent the ion of the ene by ifs .
for ach ene g , we ave a set of ary - ued tes les r = ( 123 , .
, rl ) , ere g . ri kes the lue rue if tif i ars in the ter ion of ene g , ing the tif to lay a ory ole in the nes ion .
we del the tif ing a ard ion cic ing rix ( ssm ley and kan , 23; oth et al . , 123 ) , ich gns a ght to ach ion in the tif and ach ide ( cid : 123 ) ( a , c , g , t ) ; his ght nts the ent to ich the des nce in his ion is ted ith the tif .
we use the ive ssm ach of gal et al .
( 123 ) , ich ins the ssm hts to ate as uch as ble een the nce and the nce of the tif .
his ach des ter ons , and ely ids the ems ing rom igh - ncy but ess ifs hat are mon in any eam ces .
his del is ied ing a ard ary tic del .
we ave p ion - cic hts w j ( ( cid : 123 ) ) , one for ach ion j and ach ter ( cid : 123 ) ( a , c , g , t ) , and a old 123
for a ter nce of gth n , ume hat ing urs nce , and ith ual ity at ach of the n p + 123 ble ons in the nce .
the ity
ome - ide ery of nal les
r |g . s )
p ( g . r |g . s )
p ( g . e | g . m )
ion of our ied tic del , for a ple ple ith eam ons of gth ree , ifs , ree ble ule nts and ree ion nts for ach ene
of ing ven the nce is hen ied ply as : p ( g . r = rue | 123 , .
, sn ) =
n p + 123
ion del we ene the tif ole of a nal ule to be a set of hts umi , one for ach tif , uch hat umi ies the ent to ich tif i ays a ory ole in ule m .
hly ing , the gth of the ion of a ene g ith a 123 g . ri umi .
the ger the ion ule m is of a ene ith a ule , the ore ely it is to be ned to it .
we del his ing a max nal ion , a ard ion of the ary tic nal ion to the lti - ass ase :
p ( g . m = m | 123 = 123 , .
, rl = rl ) =
123 u iri )
123 um ( cid : 123 ) iri ) .
as we ect a tif to be ive in ing nly a all set of les in a ven ing , we mit the ber of hts 23i , .
, u k i hat are non - ero to ome h ( cid : 123 ) k .
his ion lts in a rse ght rix for p ( m | r ) , and res hat ach tor cts at ost h les .
in ion , for ity ons , we ire all hts to be non - ive .
ely , his ans hat a nes ent to cic nal les can nly end on res hat ond to the nce of ain ifs and not on the nce of ifs .
for a ule m , the set of ifs umi hat are non - ero are led the tif ole of m .
e . gal et al .
ied del ese ree nts , are put her as a tic cal del , as own in ure 23; the del nes the ing int ion :
p ( g . ri | g . s ) p ( g . m | g . r ) j ( cid : 123 )
p ( g . r , g . m , g . e | g . s ) =
p ( g . ej | g . m ) ,
ere ach of the ove nal ity ibu - ons is zed as bed in the ous sec -
ing the els in the ous ion , we ted our tic del .
we now urn to the ask of ing his del rom ata .
our ata set d sts of a set of nes g , ere for ach ene g g we ave a set of ene ion nts g . e j for j = 123 , .
, j and a dna nce g . s in the eam ion of the ion art ite for g .
for his ion , we ict ion to a xed ber of ifs , and ess the lem of ing the del ers to t the ata .
the del ers to be ted are : the ans and ces of the mal ons of the ion del , the max hts and ure of the ule nts ( i . e .
ich nce ifs ach ule nds on ) , and the ssm hts for ach nce tif .
we low the ard ach of mum ood ion : we nd the ers hat ize p ( d | ) .
our ing ask is ade bly ore ult by the act hat oth the ule ent g . m and the tes les g . r are ved in the ing ata .
in his ase , the ood ion has ple cal ima , and no ral hod sts for ing the bal mum .
we hus use the ion ion ( em ) thm ( ter et al . , 123 ) , ich des an ach for ing a cal mum of the ood ion .
ing rom an ial ess ( 123 ) for the ers , em tes the ing two eps .
the e - tep tes the ion ver the ved les ven the ved ata and the ent ate of the ers .
we use the ard ent ion of the em thm , ere his ion is sed to ect a ely ion of the den les .
the m - tep hen re - tes the ers by ing the ood ith ect to the ion ted in the e - tep .
his ion ask ers for the ent rts of the del .
e - tep : ing les and ion our ask in the e - tep is to ute the ion ver the ved ata , ich in our ing ans ing p ( g . m , g . r | g . e , g . s ) .
nes are med to be ent ,
his ion can be one ely for ach ene .
ver , ugh the max ion for p ( g . m | g . r ) has a act ion , nce ing his ion is ill ial in the ber of tes les .
ven if nly a all ber of ese les is ted ith any gle ule , for the ose of ule ent we eed to der all of the les ted ith any le; his ber can be ite rge , ing act nce ble .
we ise a ple ate thm for ing his ion , ich is rly ell - ted for our ing .
it its our ion hat , ile a rge ber of nce ifs ine ule ent , nly a all ber of ifs ate a lar nal ule .
tly , ven the ule ent for a ene , we ect a all ber of tes les for hat ene to ake the lue rue .
our ate thm ore hes ily for a all ber of tes les to ate for ach ule ent .
for ach ene g , ers ery ble ule ent m , and nds a ood ent to the tes les ven hat g . m = m .
his ent is ted in a edy way , by ing g . r les to rue one at a ime , as ong as p ( g . m , g . r , g . e | g . s ) ves .
the int ing for g . m and g . r ich ves the all est ood is hen ted as the ( ate ) ost ely ent .
for the der of his ion , let g .
m and g . 123 , .
, g . rl ent the ues ted for g . m and g . 123 , .
, g . rl ely by the e - tep .
ull ils of the thm are ven in ure 23a .
m - tep : ion del ven the nts of nes to les as ted in the e - tep , the mum ood ing for the ers of the ion del ian ons has a sed orm ion .
ing nm be the ber of nes ned to ule m , we ave hat the ean and nce of the ian for ent j ven ule ent m are
gg : g
m j = 123
gg : g
the tif del
m - tep : tif del we ant be a ood tor of the ent r to the reg - tes les ted in the e - tep .
hus , ach ri , aim to nd the ues of the ers 123 , w j ( ( cid : 123 ) ) hat ize the nal log bil - | g . 123 , .
, g . sn ) .
ely , his ion lem has no sed orm ion ,
gg log p ( g . ri
ome - ide ery of nal les
for ach ene g g set g . m = 123 set g . ri = lse for 123 i l set p = p ( g . m , g . r | g . s , g . e ) for m = 123 to k / / for all les eat / / ind g . ri hat ses p set est = p for i = 123 to l / / for all tes les set g . ri = rue ( cid : 123 ) = p ( g . m = m , g . r | g . s , g . e ) ( cid : 123 ) > p set g . m = m set p = p set g . ri = lse
til est = p
set u = ( ) set ion = 123 let v = ( vmi ) 3mk , 3il set ore = axv ore ( v ) / / ore = ore of ned t set t = old for ess to ore set ion = ion + 123 ( cid : 123 ) = ( u ( cid : 123 ) = axu ( cid : 123 ) ore ( u / / ize hts not in u; hts in u xed for i = 123 to l / / for all tes les let m = axm ( u set u = u ) / / add new non - ero ght set u = ore ( u , 123 ) / / ize hts in u; her hts = 123 til ion = max ion or ore ( u ) >= ore t
) 3mk , 3il u
( cid : 123 ) = u = 123 for 123 m k
for i = 123 to l / / for all tes les if ore ( u ) ore ( u set u = u
for m = 123 to k / / for all les let g ( cid : 123 ) = ( ) for ach g s . t .
m = m set g . r ( cid : 123 ) = axr p ( g . r | g . s ) set g ( cid : 123 ) = g ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( g ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) = m arn tif ith ive set g ( cid : 123 ) add new tes ble ith ned ssm
( cid : 123 ) = axm p ( g . m = m | g . r = g . r ( cid : 123 ) )
( a ) rch ure for e - tep of em .
( b ) ing the max ion for p ( g . m | g . r ) in the m - tep .
( c ) ure for lly ing and ing tes les .
in ( b ) and ( c ) , u tes the non - ero hts of pu ( g . m | g . r ) , and
gg log pu ( g .
m | g . r ) .
and ere are any cal ima .
we ore use a ate ent ent to nd a cal mum in the ter ace .
ate ent rts rom an ial ess of the hts ( cid : 123 ) w ( 123 ) .
for all cal ill ing ods , the ity of the ing int has a uge act on the ity of the cal mum und by the thm .
we ore ize the hts ing the hod of ash et al .
( 123 ) , ich tly tes tif eds of gth 123 and hen res hem ing the ric nce est .
ach eed ced by his hod is hen ded to uce a ssm of the red gth , ose hts rve as an ion int for the ate ent ure .
m - tep : ion del lly , we der the ask of ing the ers for the ion p ( g . m | g . r ) .
our oal is to nd a ing for the max hts ( umi ) 3mk , 3il so as to ize the nal log gg log p ( g . m = g .
m | g . r = g . r ) .
ugh his ion oes not ave a sed orm ion , the ion is vex in the hts of the max .
hus , a que bal mum sts , ich we can nd ing ent ent .
ver , as we sed in the ous ion , we lso ain his ght rix to be rse and ach ght to be non - ive .
ese nts ead to ore ble els , but lso urn our ask nto a ard ial ion lem .
we use a edy ion thm , hat ies to ude non - ero hts for the ost ive ifs for ach tes ble ri .
the thm , own in ure 23b , rst nds the mal ing to the ull ght ix; as we sed , the mal ing can be und ing ent ent .
for ach ble ri , hen cts the ost ive the one ose ght is and dds it to the
tif ole u , ich ins ifs hat ave non - ero ght .
the mal ing for the hts in u is hen und by ing ese hts , der the int hat ach ght in u is non - ive and the hts not in u ust be ero .
his lem is lso vex , and can be ved ing ent ods .
the thm hen ues to rch for nal ifs to ude in the ole u .
nds the mal ing to all hts ile ing the hts in u ed; it hen cts the est ght ifs not in u , dds hem to u , and ats .
hts are ded to u til the ess mit is hed , or til the ion of ifs to u oes not ove the all ore .
lly ing and ing in the ous ion , we wed how to ize the del ers ven a xed set of ifs .
we now ish to ise a mic ing thm , ble of oth ing and ing nce ifs as art of the ing ess .
as we arn the els , ome ifs may not urn out to be ive , or ant ven the wly red ifs .
ely , ome les may not be ell ned by nce ifs , so hat new ifs uld be ded .
we add and ove ifs ter ach ion of the em thm .
( ote hat em elf tes ral mes een the e - tep and the m - tep . ) to ine her ri uld be ted , we ute the nal log gg log p ( g . m | g . r ) oth ith and out ing the ues of her tes les xed .
his ion lls us the ion hat ri kes rds the all t of the del .
les hat ute low a ain old are tly ved rom the del .
e . gal et al .
we try to add ifs hen the ent set of ifs oes not ide a ory ion of the ion ata : hen ere are nes for ich the nce ons do not tch the ion ole .
we ene the ual for a nal ule m to be the set of nes hat are ned to ule m in the e - tep , but uld not be ned to m sed on the nce one .
we ine the nce - nly ent of ach ene
( cid : 123 ) = axr p ( g . r | g . s )
( cid : 123 ) = axm p ( g . m = m | g . r = g . r
we hen mpt to ide a ter ion for the ual nes by ing a nce tif hat is ned to tch ese nes .
nce a new tes les is ded , it mes art of the del and its ent and ion is ted as art of the ext em ion , as bed in the ous ion .
his ess sts her a new tif tes to the all del t , and may ign it a non - ero ght .
tly , a tif hat was ned for the als of one ule ten ets non - ero hts for her les as ell , ing the ame tif to ate in ple les .
ull ils of the thm are ven in ure 23c .
els ned we ted our hod ely on two ent s . iae ene ion ets , one ing of 123 ays , ing the ses to ous ess ons ( sch et al . , 123 ) , and her ing of 123 ays , ing ion ing ell cle ( man et al . , 123 ) .
we lso ned the 3bp eam ion of ach ene ( ces ere ved rom sgd ( rry et al . , 123 ) ) .
the em thm res an ial ing to all pa - ers .
we use the ard ure for ing mo - ifs rom ion ata to ize the del ame - ers : we rst ter the ion les , ing in a ion of nes to ers , and hen arn a tif for ach of the ing ers .
for ing the res - ion , we use the tic cal ing lgo - thm of gal et al .
( 123 ) .
for ing ifs , we use the tif der bed ove .
to ify the ial pa - ion of our del , we eat ese ers and ifs as if hey ere the ult of an e - tep , ing a lue to all of the les g . m and g . r , and arn the del ers as bed ove .
for the ess ata , we use 123 nes ich wed a ant nge in ion , ing ers of the ric ess nse ter ( sch et al . , 123 ) .
ell cle del
ber of nes ose ule ent can be tly ted sed on nce one , ere a ect ion is one hat hes the ule mnt hen the ion is ded .
ons are own for ach ion of the ing
we zed 123 les ing ard ing , and ned the ted 123 nce ifs .
rom his ing int , the thm ged ter 123 ons , of an em tep and a tif ion / ion tep , ing in a tal of 123 ifs .
for the ell cle ata , we ned a del ith 123 ers ver the 123 ell cle nes ned in ( man et al . , 123 ) .
the thm ged ter 123 ons , ing ith 123 ifs .
ing ion rom nce our ach ims to ain ion ata as a ion of nce ifs .
nce , one ric for ing a del is its ity to ate nes ith les sed on eir ter nce one .
lly , we are the ule ent of ach ene hen we der nly the nce ata to its ule ent ing oth ion and nce ata .
ure 123 ows the tal ber of nes ose ion - sed ule ent is tly ted ing nly the nce , as the thm ses and nce ifs are ded .
as can be een , the ons ove oss the ing ons , and tly orm the ard ach ( ich is ion 123 ) .
ely , our del ges to 123 and 123 nes tly ted in the ell cle and ess els , ely , red to 123 and 123 for the ard ach .
ene ion nce ese lts ate hat our del gns nes to les uch hat nes ned to the ame ule are lly hed for the ame ifs .
ver , we can eve uch an rga - ion by ply ing nes to les sed nly on eir nce , ile ely ing the ion ata .
to ify the ity of our les ive to ene ion ata , we ene the ion nce of a ule to be the age son ion een ach air of nes ned to it , ere the son
ion nce ( ard ing )
ion nce ( ard ing )
ome - ide ery of nal les
- log ( lue ) for ard ing
- log ( lue ) for ard ing
- log ( lue ) for ard ing
- log ( lue ) for ard ing
son of ard ing and the sed hod .
( a ) ( c ) are for the ell cle set ( man et al . , 123 ) and ( d ) ( f ) are for the ess ion set ( sch et al . , 123 ) .
( a ) , ( d ) son of the ion nce for ach red ule ( or ter in the ard ing del ) .
( b ) , ( e ) son of ent of the ets of ach tif for nal ons rom the go ase .
for ach ion , the est ive log p - lue ned rom ing the ets of all ifs is own .
( c ) , ( f ) son of ent of the ets of ach tif for ein xes .
for ach ein lex , own is the est ive log p - lue ned rom any of the ifs .
son ( gi . e , g j . e ) = 123
( gi . el i )
( g j . el j )
ere i , i are the ean and ard ion of the ies in gi . e .
ure 23a , d res the ion nce of our les to ose ilt rom ard ing for the ell cle and ess ata , ing cal nce of ion les .
for the ell ase in the nce of the ion les for our del .
hus , our del lts in ers hat are ore hed for ifs , ile ing the ame ity of ion rns as ard ing ich nly ies to ize the ion ore .
ere was ven a ght
nce of tif ets as we sed , the tif ole ing a ule ows us to ene a ion of tif nes hat ain the tif , and ere the tif ays a ole in its ion ole , i . e
ned to a ule ose tif ole ins the tif .
in the ard ing del , we can ene the ets of a tif to be ose nes hat ave the tif and ong to the ter rom ich the tif was ned .
we ted her our tif ets ond to nal ups , by ing eir ent for nes in the ame nal ory ing to the ene ion ase of go ( ner et al . , 123 ) .
we sed nly go ies ith 123 or ore nes ted ith hem , ing in 123 ies .
for ach ion and ach tif , we ted the ion of nes in the ets of hat tif ted ith hat ion and sed the ric ion to ate a p - lue for his ion , and ook p - lue < 123 to be ant .
we red , for oth ion ata ets , the ent of the tif ets for go ons een our del and ard ing .
we und any ons hat ere hed in oth els .
ver , ere ere 123 and 123 ons hat ere tly hed in our ell cle and ess
e . gal et al .
els , ely , hat ere not hed at all in the ard ing del , red to nly 123 and 123 ies nly hed in the ard ing del for ese ive els .
ong ose ies hed nly in our del ere ate ism , ell all ion and ose ism , all of ich are ses own to be ive in nse to ous ess ons hat we can now ize by nce ifs .
a ull son of the go ent for oth ets is own in ure 23b , e .
nce nal ies do not ily cor - ond to co - ion ups , we lso ted the ent of our tif ets for ein xes , as led lly in the ays of vin et al .
( 123 ) and ho et al .
( 123 ) , ing of 123 and 123 xes , ely .
the ber nes of ein xes are ten co - ted and we hus ect to nd ent for hem in our tif ets .
we ted ach ene ith the xes it is ned to in ach ein lex set and ted the p - lue of the ent of the ets of ach tif for ach lex , as we did ove for the go ota - ons .
the lts for the ell cle and ess ets are zed in ure 23c , f , ing uch ter ent of our tif ets han the ets of the ifs ied ing the ard ach , ith 123 and 123 xes tly hed nly in our del , and no xes nly hed in the ard ach , for the ess and ell cle els , ely .
ifs and tif les we red the ifs we ied to ifs rom the ure .
of the 123 ifs ned for the ess del , 123 are own , red to nly 123 own ifs ned ing the ard ach .
for the ell cle del , 123 of the 123 ned ifs are own , red to nly 123 own ifs ned ing the ard ach .
any of the own ifs ied , uch as the ess ent tre , the eat ock tif hsf and the ell cle tif 123 , are lso own to be ive in the ive ets .
a ful ure of our ach is its ity to ize les by tif les .
his ity is rly ant for her tes , in ich ion ten urs ugh ple nct ifs .
to ate the tif les und by our ach , we und for ach tif all les hed for the nce of hat tif .
his was one by ing ach ene ith the ifs in its eam ion , and hen ing the p - lue of the ent of the ber nes of ach ule .
ure 23a ows all the ule - tif irs in ich the ule was hed for the tif ith p - lue 123 .
in ion , the ure tes ( by red les ) all irs in ich the tif ars in the les tif ole .
as can be een , any of les ain ple
ifs , and any ifs ere sed by ore han one ule .
ven ugh les are ifs , ach ule is zed by a que ion of ifs .
ing the ive mo - ing ory rks ifs is a ant tep rds ing the ula - ory sms ing ene ion .
ver , we uld lso ant to now the ity of the ion tor ( tf ) les hat ind to ese nce ifs .
we sed the dna ing ays of lee et al .
( 123 ) , hat tly ect to ich ter ons a lar tf nds in ivo , and ted tfs ith the ifs we ned .
for ach tif , we ted the ion , ong the tif ets , of nes und by ach tf , as red in the ata of lee et al .
we sed the ric tri - ion to ign a p - lue to ach uch ion and ook p - lue 123 to be ant .
ion of the gni - ant ons wed hat , in ost ses , ere was a que tif hat was ant for the tf and hat a igh ion ( 123 ) of the tfs ing ets ere ong the tif get nes .
sed on his ong ion een tfs and ifs , for ach uch tf - tif air , we ted hat the tf tes all the les hat are zed by the tif .
by ing all ons , we ved at the ory ork own in ure 23b .
of the 123 ion ors red in lee et al . , ere hed in the ets of at ast one tif and ere hus ded to the ing ork .
of the 123 les , 123 ere ted ith at ast one tf .
to ate the ity of the ork , we hed the cal ure and led a ist of lly ied ets for ach of the 123 tfs in our ork .
we hen ked ach ion een a tf and a ule as ted if the ule ins at ast one ene hat the tf is own to ate rom cal nts .
as ent dge is ted , ere are ery few own ets for ost tfs .
ess , we und ort for 123 of the 123 ons .
we lso ted the p - lue for ach ted ion een a tf and a ule , ing the ial ion ith ity of ess p = t / n , ere k is the tal ber of own ets for the tf and n is the tal ber of nes ( 123 ) .
the p - lue is hen p ( x ( cid : 123 ) | x b ( p , n ) ) , ere ( cid : 123 ) is the tal ber of own ets of the tor in the ted ule and n is the ber of nes in the ted ule .
the ing p - ues are own in ure 23b by dge ess and lor .
we ned a ame to ach ule sed on a ise ary of its ene ent ( led rom oth ene ion and ure ) .
the ory ork hus ins ons for the ses ted by ach tf , ere for ach ion the ion des the tif ugh ich the ion urs .
in any
ome - ide ery of nal les
123 sis ( 123 ) 123 dox ion ( 123 ) 123 xed i ( 123 ) 123 ein ing ( 123 ) 123 tin ing ( 123 ) 123 rgy and tca cle ( 123 ) 123 ive ion ( 123 ) 123 own i ( 123 ) 123 gen ism ( 123 ) 123 ell cle ( 123 ) 123 ein ing ( 123 ) 123 rol sis ( 123 ) 123 ose ism ( 123 ) 123 ion ( 123 ) 123 eat ock ( 123 ) 123 one nse ( 123 ) 123 ort ( 123 ) 123 yde ism ( 123 ) 123 ose ism ( 123 ) 123 ino cid ism ( 123 )
( a ) rix of ifs vs .
les for the ess ata , ere a ule - tif try is red if the ber nes of hat ule ere hed for hat tif ith p - lue 123 .
the ity nds to the ion of nes in the ule hat had the tif .
ies in the les tif ole are led in red .
les ere ned mes sed on a ary of eir ene ent .
( b ) ory ork red rom our del ing the dna ing ays of lee et al . .
als ond to ion ors and les to les ( see ( a ) for ule mes ) .
ses , our ach red ent cal pro - ses ong ith eir own ors .
les of uch ons ude : 123 , the own tor of ive ion , ith the ive pho - ion ule ( 123 ) ; 123 , a own ive tor of sis , ith the sis ule ( 123 ) ; 123 , a ose sor , ith the ose ism ule ( 123 ) ; 123 , ved in ion of one ays , ith the one nse ule ( 123 ) ; and 123 , a ive tor of fur ino cid ism , ith the ino cid ism ule ( 123 ) .
we ted a ied tic del ver oth ene ion and nce ata , ose oal is to ify nal les and the ory tif ing tes hat rol eir ion hin a ven set of ex - nts .
our lts ate hat our hod ers les hat are oth hly ent in eir ion les and tly hed for mon tif ind - ing tes in eam ons of nes ned to the ame ule .
a son to the mon ach of con - ing ers sed nly on ion and hen arn - ing a tif for ach ter ows hat our hod ers les hat ave a uch her nce to ter - nal cal dge of ene ons and ein
