ess ing of man ose is a ard yet ele - ant lem .
in his per , we ive an ent ing thm for ing man ose at 123 - 123 mes per sec - ond ing a eam of lar pth ges .
the key dea is to ine an ate ive ich is ble in his ing ing ble aph - ics ith a ive del hat eds ata - ven nce out ody art ons .
in ach ter ion , we ply a orm of cal del - sed rch hat its the ure of the tic ain .
as ast ove - nts and ion can upt the cal rch , we ize a set of ely ned tch ers to ect ody rts .
we ibe a vel thm for ing his isy nce out ody art ons up the ine - tic ain ing the ted orm .
the ing ion of ody ons ows us to ize the del - sed rch , ich in urn ows our tem to tly ver rom ary ing ift .
we ide ive tal lts on 123 eal - rld ces ing tic und - uth ons rom a mer - ial ion ure tem .
if ion ure ogy ere to ome nve - ent , eap , and ble in ral nts , hen a ole nge of ons uld ome ble , uch as ive man - ine ion , art nce , ter ion , ual ity and ion sis .
it is ely hat any uch ons ill ome ent nce the ogy is ble .
the nly ble ion day , hat is , ker - sed hu - man ion ure , has so far nly een sed in the en - ent try , ely use the eed for ial - ose ras and ent ers or its uir - ing igh ion sts .
as a ult , ere has een uch
est in the rea of ess ion ure , and uch ems are ing ore lar ( 123 ) .
in ent ars , hms ave een sed hat cap - ure ull tal ion at ear eal - ime ame es; how - ver , hey tly ely on lti - iew era ems and ial led ing ons hat mit eir ap - ity .
ess ive ems hat use a row ase - ine era tem ave not yet hed a lar vel of ity .
ost lar hes so far aim at olv - ing ied ons of the ull ted ion cap - ure lem , uch as ure ion , or ure of ted ion for ain rts of the ody .
ime - of - ght ors are a ogy hat ers ich ory ion out a rge art of the ene and , at the ame ime , les a ent , non - ive tem tup .
ese ors ide nse pth nts at ery int in the ene at igh ame tes .
the nge ata ded ows asy ion of the man ody and can lso ate ses hat uld ise ave lar nce and ore use ost lar ems .
nge ors , in ral , end ves to a ful ive del ( as the ics ure ows ) , use hey are not ive to ges in ing , had - ows , and the ety of the ems hat ake it rly ble to ely del ity ges .
in the ure , ese ors are ely to be as eap as ams are day .
hus , we ach the man ion ure ask ing ime - of - ght ors .
ite the ges of pth ors , ver , ral ard ems ave to be alt ith , ing the igh ity of the ate - ace ( 123 ree - of - dom in our ase ) and the ear , hly ked ood ion .
we ose in his per a tic ing ame - ork hat oys a hly ate ive del ich is ble in his ing ing an ent gpu ith a ive del .
our lgo - thm was ped lly for ast ion at deo ame tes , nce ral ion res a low - ncy ion - ion cle .
the ted tem re -
res 123 3ms per era ame to ate the int les of a 123 ree - of - dom man del .
our ary ion is a vel thm for ing ive art ons ith cal ill - ing for his ask .
our ary ion is the ion of a oth ood ion and a ans of ing it on ily ble ics are ( pus ) tly in der to ain ear eal - ime for - nce .
in ion to his , we ted an ive set of eal - rld est ces ith ted und uth , ich are hed nly ( 123 ) for ure rks .
ted ork
the tic sis of man ape and ion rom sor ata has een hed bly as oes - und et al .
( 123 ) ate in eir vey ing ore han han 123 ers .
ral ing sed hes ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) mpt to tly map age res , tes or res com - ted rom hem tly to ses .
ile his is an ter - ing ach in ral , it is not ear yet how to ale it tly to the ral lem ing in ned nts due to the igh ity of the man ose ace .
ted to our ach , his ine of rch uld t ell nto the ata - ven ent of our lgo - thm bed in sec .
rly , ral ers try to ect rts of the ody ich hey ble nto a com - ete orm , med ial res .
ugh ing on igh ity int uds ned rom ser ans in - ead of deo , ers et al .
( 123 ) ake a lar ach hat ses ive ods to ate the ins of ete les in a ian ork .
in the lti - iew ion ing , gal et al .
( 123 ) ply a lar egy , but use ric ief ion for eir nce hod .
our ach ers in hat we orm nce in the ous ain and hat we are ing on tem - ral ata ith a ier sor .
our ach to ody art ion yed in his ork is bed in ( 123 ) .
uch ork has lso sed on ing - sed ods ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ing ned ing , ich tes ets of ers , and cal ing , ich rts at the top of the tic ain and eds own - rds .
in our ach , we opt the dea of cal rch ong the tic ain , but ace dom sam - ing ith tic ing use it is ows in - sed ncy ugh ion .
tly ere ave een ral pts to ack ple ing a ime - of - ght ( tof ) era .
est et al .
( 123 ) ply non - ear ast res to dge aps , hat are ted rom ame to ame .
oop et al .
( 123 ) use a reo era and a tof era to t a cal 23d ody del to the ata via the ive est int ( icp ) thm .
oth pa - ers cus on ing of the per ody nly .
due to eir
ure 123
eft : the man ody is led by a tic ain and a 23d ace esh .
ght : the mic ian ork ing the ses xt of the ked son and the ded nge nts zt .
cal ure , oth hms are ble to ing ack hen the ion is too ast .
tly , zhu et al .
( 123 ) ave sed an thm for per - ody ing rom one tof era .
eir thm is sed on and - red ics for ing nts of the per ody and is pti - zed for per ont - ing ses .
ese hms do not ude any ion ent and ate ugh cal ion zed rom the ous ame .
the ted lem of ing ing one or any deo ras has lso ved uch ion .
the sic ork by ler et al .
( 123 ) cks a son rom a gle era ing cal ow to ain ame - to - ame cor - ces , ich are sed to ate ion iva - ves , ich are ted up the tic ain .
by as - ion , eir ach is ted to ons lel to the age ane , and it is lso ble to ing ack .
ver , the ral dea of ing ion rom the age up the tic ain is one hat we oit in our thm , ugh we use the ted orm to eve her ity ion .
ere is a ing end in ers hat use pro - ble ics are ( pus ) to ent com - ter ion hms ( 123 ) .
the lel ure of mpu - ion on a gpu as ell as eir ion for ing on ges ads us to eve , hat hey are an eal orm for ter ion hms , lly hen eal - ime nce is unt .
we oit pus to orm rge ers of ood ons tly .
tic del
the ive is to ack an ted ody ver ime ing a eam of lar pth ges .
we rst ene a tic del for the les of est in his sec - ion and hen ibe how to tly orm nce in sec
we del the ody as a ion of 123 gid ody rts , ich are ned in ace ing to a ree - ped tic ain ( ton ) , see the eft ram in fig .
a tic ain is a ted lic aph ( dag )
ith ell - ned ent - ild ons .
the ace ge - try of the del is ted via a sed gle esh , ich rms ith the ing tic ain by ans of a tex ing ach ( 123 ) .
we de - ote the ion of the ody by xt = ( x i ere ach i xes a ely ned ody art in the ain .
the ons xi can be ted in ari - ous ays , uch as ing ous ces or in vec - tor / ion orm .
ent rom the ice of rep - ion , x i tes the ion and ion of a cic ody art ive to its ent art .
the ain is red to the rld at the vis x 123 t ( ich oes not ave a ent in the tic ree ) .
in our del , we low the vis to ely ate and ate .
the ing ody rts are ted to the eir ent via a all int , ich ows hem to ate in any ion , but not to ate .
we ain the ute ion w i ( x ) of a ody art i by ing the ons of its ors in the tic ain , w i ( x ) = x 123 x ent ( i ) x i .
in der to ine the ost ely ate at any ime , we ust ene a tic del .
the ate at ime t is the ose xt and its rst ete - ime ive vt .
the ent is the nge can zt .
we del our tem as a mic ian ork ( dbn ) , see the ght dia - ram in fig .
123 , ich des the kov nce ion hat xt and vt are ent of 123 , .
, 123 ven 123 and 123
his dbn res the ion of the nal ies p ( 123 ) , p ( 123 , vt ) and the mea - ent del p ( |xt ) .
we ake the ion hat the ons in our tem are awn rom a ian ion ith ero 123
hus , 123 n ( 123 , ) ith the nce rix ing nal .
we ote hat nce x is a ist of ive ons , the ies are lso ned ely .
hat is , if k is the dex of the nee , v k t des the nge in the gle een the hin and igh at ame t .
the nce was ied by and ing bio - cal les and the own deo ame ate , ugh it uld ily be set by an au - ted ure ing the any ble man ion
we ene p ( |vt , 123 ) to be a tic cpd ( nal ity ion ) , hat ies the ans - ons in vt to ose in 123
lly , x i ith ity 123
t = v i
the ent del nes the ion on the red nge ata ven the ate of the tem .
the mea - red nge can is ted by z = ( zk ) m 123 ere zk ves the red pth of the xel at ate k .
an ple can is own in fig .
we ume the nal pen -
ote hat it is mon in the ing ure to ume dom
ons her han dom ies
ure 123
our sor del for ual nge nts ap - tes the ure of a ian ( ent ise ) and a orm ion ( ers and mis - ons ) .
nce of ach xel ven the ate and ene try m ,
p ( |xt , m ) = y
t |xt , m ) .
to ate the zk for a cic ody ion x and del m , we orm the ces ing to ach art i by its ing ion rix w i ( x ) .
we hen ast a ray rom the cal int ugh xel k and ate the nce to the rst ace it its , ich we ote zk .
ote , hat his is lly a ray - ing op - ion mon ace in the ter ics ing
ven the eal pth lue , we can hen ply a ise del for the ven sor .
ise els for ime - of - ght ors ave een ily red in the ics era - ure .
the ard ach is to tly del the dif - ent pes of ise hat are can cur .
in ple , one can ate the cts , uch as ian ise of the sor , the ity of a max nge ing , ers , and ers .
we ate uch a cpd ing the unc - ion own in fig .
let us ene tep ( x ) = ( min ( x , 123 ) ) 123 ( 123 123 min ( x , 123 ) ) .
we ene
p ( |zk zk| ) exp ( tep ( |zk zk| ) ) .
we ose his ion use it tes a ian xed ith a orm ion and it is a ilt - in unc - ion in the gpu ing age .
our oal is to ine the ost ely tes xt and vt at ime t ven the map nts of the ous ame , hat is , 123 and 123
at ach ame , we ace the ult , igh nal ion lem h xt , vti =
xxt , vt log p ( |xt , vt ) log p ( xt , vt| 123 , 123 ) ,
for ich we ibe an ent ion in sec
as a ral ent of our ion lem , the sly bed ent del p ( |xt , vt ) is ate due to its ity to ect els m and to ght ges in the ate x .
rts of the del hat vio - ate eir tte in the red age ill be zed ily .
for nce , tly ing an ect ill re - ult in all els at the ges ing an ect pth
lue , ich uld be zed ily .
the sor del lly nts for his ver - ity ugh the use of a avy - led ion .
in the ure , it has tly een ved hat the rue ood is ten ill - ted for ion , and sur - ate ods are ten sed ( 123 ) .
we lop a unc - ion hat is ore ust to the mis - ion hat urs ing ion .
let us ite his ood l ( x ) in rms of z ( x ) , the pth age ned ugh ray - l ( x ) = pk log p ( k|z ( x ) ) = ing ied to x .
pk log p ( |zk ( x ) ) .
we uct an ate her
oth ( x ) = x
log p ( |zj ( x ) ) + ( j , k )
zed by a lty ion .
ere , ( j , k ) rep - nts a ost for ing a ent xel dex han the one ted by ray ing .
in our ase we ene ( j , k ) = , if j is not an ate xel bor of k , ( j , k ) = 123 , if j = k and set ( j , k ) to a ant in all her ses .
we ose the ant 123 ing to on the ing ing : ven our ors eld of iew , the ect ill be ely two ers way in der to t ely .
at hat nce , ing to a ing xel lts in a ean nce of a ely 123 ers lar to the ion the era is ing .
ear the mum , the log ood of the ise del is ely tic .
can be sen to oth the ood her ugh his uld uce acy .
hus , the tal lty ion tes ean nce for ose hes .
his ion ned the tic ate ace and ent del .
nce in his del is non - ial due to the igh - nal ure of the ace of the ine - tic ion ace x and the ted ity ace v .
his is rly ing for our eal - ime ing ive , ere ive nce is ble .
we now ibe how to orm ent map fer - nce at ach ame .
we ack his lem in two ays : ( 123 ) a del - sed ent lly zes the ike - ood ion by ill - ing and ( 123 ) , a ata - ven art ses the ent z to ize rts of the ter ate hen ble .
for the ter ent , we ive an ate nce ure med nce aga - ion to ate ely tes ich are hen sed to ize the del - sed thm .
del ( cid : 123 ) sed ill ing rch ( hc )
to lly ize the ood , we ply a rse - to - ne ill - ing ure .
we art rom the ase of
t |v i
tic ain ich des the est ody rts , and eed ard the mbs .
for a gle ion i of the ate ace , we ple a rid of ues out the ean of 123 ) .
for ach ple of vt , we lly ate the ate xt rom 123
the ood of his ate is ted , and the est one of the rid sen .
the ure can hen lly be ied to a ler ter - val out the lue sen at the ser vel .
for ple , to ize the x xis of the vis , we ght ple ues een - 123 to 123 at als of 123 ers .
the ene - t of uch a ure is hat it is tly lel .
we can end a tch of tes to the gpu , ich alu - tes all of hem and rns eir sts .
we ose a ter - tic ing egy ver tic ing use it ows ore ion and ore ses the eed of ood ion .
nce ion ( ep )
a ety of cts can use the del - sed rch to ail .
one lem is hat ast ion ses ant mo - ion lur .
lly , ion can use the ate of the ate of den rts to ift .
lly , the ood ion has ges hat are ult to ate .
we ere - ore ose a ata - ven ure hat ies mis - ing ons for ody rts in der to nd ely ses .
the ree eps in his ure are ( i ) to ify ssi - ble ody art ons rom the ent nge age , ( ii ) to ate the ody ion x ven ble pon - ces een esh ces and art ons and ( iii ) to ine the est set of uch ces .
123 . 123 ody art ion
we der the ve ody rts ead , eft and , ght and , eft oot and ght oot .
the 23d rld ons of ese rts ing to the ent ion x of the ody are ted as pi , i ( 123 , .
ote hat we ent ese rts by gle ces on the ace esh of the ody , uch hat all pi are tic ons of x .
the ata - ven ons of ody ich we ibe in the are ted as pj , j ( 123 , .
, j ) , ere j n can be an ary ber ing on the art tor .
ual ody rts as ell as the ons ave a ass ent ci , cj to ( ead , and , f oot ) .
we ain the ody art ons ing the thm bed in ( 123 ) .
ese ons are ced by a two in the rst tep mal nts on the ded ace esh are ned rom the nge mea - ent zt to orm a set of nct est nts .
dis - ely ned ers are ied to hes cen - red on the nts to ine to hat ody art ass hey ong to .
if the ier is tly ent , the fea - ure is ted as a ion ( see ( 123 ) for ils ) .
123 . 123 tic rse ics
we now ene a tic del , zed in fig .
123 , ing of the les vt , xt , 123 , 123 and pj .
as - ing a nce een ody art i and ion j , we ply the ion del
pj n ( pi ( x ) , o ) .
we uld now ike to ate a map ate of xt and vt ned on 123 and pj .
his is ult use the ate ble pi is a ily non - ear ion of x .
in der to ute pi ( x ) we ust ine the rld tes w ( x ) , ich des the ute ion of ach ody art .
hen we orm pi rom its ion in the esh to its nal ion in the rld .
to kle his lem , we rve hat xt is a min - tic ion of vt and 123
ore , we can ite pi as a non - ear ion pi ( vt , 123 , 123 ) .
our ach ill be to ize the ion pi .
use the ion p ( vt| 123 ) is a ear ian , ing pi lts in a ear ian ork ion .
map nce on his del is asy , so we can ine an ate of axp ( vt| 123 , 123 , pj ) .
we ize out his sti - ate and eat the ure til nce .
ere are any ays to ize pi .
we ply the un - ted orm ich is sed in the ted man ter in a lar ion .
the sic ach is to com - ute gma nts rom the ior ion on vt , ply the non - ear ion to hem , and hen ate the ult ith a ear ian .
we mit the cal ils , but it can be own hat his hod des an ate of the ion hat is ore ate han lin - ion ugh ing an tic ian .
to ize , ven a own nce een a int in the age and a int in the esh , we can orm ate map nce ing the thm ust de - bed .
the thm is ted to ing ods for in - rse ics ing non - ear ast res , ept hat it rms ion ing the ted orm , and it its ior ons on the les .
ure 123
cal del for the ion of ody art tec -
is ous , and if not , ich cic ody art it is sso - ted ith , ned by the ody art ass of the tec - ion .
his lts in a rge ber of ble ina - ons .
ing ach uch ion , ich res ing ill - ing , uld be far too ime ing for a eal - ime tem .
we ore une ons hat are ear any art ion in x est .
his aps ive tic is sed on the ion hat ive de - ons are ded ost hen the ill ing ach has ost ack .
hen uch a oss has red , it is ped the the ive thm ill ect a art far rom the ion of any art in x est .
hen the ill ing al - thm is ing ell , the art ons ill be ear eir ion in x est and ore can be red .
we une ons ear any art in x est use the art ers can ten use ses .
the ext tep is to and the ons nto a set of ete ces .
a can - ate nce ( ( pi , pj ) ) is ted for ach ody art to all ons ith a ing ass , hat is ci = cj .
for nce , a nce is ted for the ght and to all and ons .
at his int , we ave a ete ist of ble rre - ces rom ich we ust ose a set .
we ap - ach his lem in a edy ion .
we ate ugh ach ble nce , and ply nce opa - ion , zed rom x est to nd a new ior ode
ate x est by cal ill - ing on the ood
act art ons rom zt
123 . 123 ata ion and nce
une ses hat are ady ned
we now ive the ire thm for ing xt rom 123 and zt .
in his ion , we nly ume we are ven a set of art ons and eir ted ody art ses , ( pj , cj ) .
the thm ins ith an ial ess x est set to 123 , ich is dly ved by ing
the thm ins by ing x est ith the ate rom ced by ill - ing as bed in sec .
art ons are hen ted rom the ent zt .
in ory , we ave to ide for ach ion her it
uce set of ces ( ( pi , pj ) ) by ing hy -
oop i = 123 to n
( a ) let x be the ior ode of nce ion
zed rom x est ned on ci
( b ) ate x by cal ill - ing on ood ( c ) if ood of x > x est , set x est to xc
ure 123
ing thm .
hc + ep
ion ion ( ep ) ill ing ( hc ) our ach ( +ep )
age ror of und uth ing ror ion of our ach ( +ep ) w . r . t
est nce id
ure 123
ing lts on eal - rld est ces , ted rom ost lex ( eft ) to ast lex ( ght ) .
x ich tes the ent nce nly .
ep hus ows us to ake a big ump in the ate ace .
we hen art cal ill - ing rom x to ene it .
if the nal ood is ter han x est , x est is ced ith the ose und .
hen his urs , the ate pon - nce is red to be ted .
the nly ect of his on the ent ons of the thm is ugh its ate of x est .
the nce is not ted ing ent tes of ep , so hat ent , ssi - bly ter , ces can ide ier nes .
we ave ved hat his thm lly cts cor - ect ces use the ate ing rom eir ion ill be zed by the ood ion .
gpu - ted ion
ral cal ils ble the ent ion of ore han 123 123 tes per ond on the gpu .
the ain ons are to ize ism and to ize ing and ing rge nts of ata .
the esh is lly ied ing tic dge ion and ded to the gpu ong ith the art nts for ach tex .
we use a tom ing ver - tex der hat ows us to ply oad the rma - ion ces for the ire ion in der to der the ire ody , out ing any her ata .
an - her der tes the red ray gth ( nce the z - fer has ted ion ) and nts the ual ost ion as bed ove .
use ing era - ons to the gpu ves a ain ncy , we ess a tch of tes sly .
we der a rid of tes led on a gle ure .
his ure is hen red nst the ion in lel for ach ile .
by ing hat the ons of the rid are a wer of two , we can oit the ilt - in ity of the gpu to ate a mip - ped ure .
a mip - ped ure is one ich ins ons of elf at ely wer ons , ach ted by ing els at her
ons .
by ing a lar mip - map vel , we can tly ead out the age sts of ach ate , one per xel , ich is the mum unt of ata we can fer ack to the cpu .
the bed thm was lly ted in c++ and ted on eal ces .
the oal of his eri - tal ion is to how hat
our sed tem is ble to ate the ose and ion of a man ver ime ing nly a eam of pth ges ,
ing tes ing ep on ted ody rts tly ves nce ver ust ing lo -
the hed rgy ion ( eq .
123 ) rms the
lly sed xel - ise rgy ion , and
the tem uns ose to eal - ime at 123 mes per sec -
to his end , we ave ted a ted est ata set , hat ows ive sis of the ing per - nce .
the ata set , ich is ble nly as a ark ong ith our lts ( 123 ) , sts of 123 eal - rld pth - age ces of ing ity ing rom ort ces ith gle - imb ons to ger ces ing ast cks , ngs , elf - ons and ull - ody ons .
our ion of com - ity , ugh ive , ses ith the gth of the nce , unt of ion , eed of ion , ber of ody rts ing sly , and ion out the cal xis .
the pth age eam is ted ing a ger 123 ime - of - ght era , ich was set to ord ull - ame red ity ges and pth at 123 fps and a ion of 123 123 els , ich we sub - ple to 123 123 els in der to ake age of the gpu ore ely .
in ion to the eam of pth im -
ute ing ror
age ror , hc age ror , +ep max ror , hc max ror , +ep
ure 123
a cal ion in ich ata - ven nce is ial for ing ess ( rpt rom seq .
eft : ree ary mes rom the nis nce .
del - sed rch ( top row ) ses ack of the nis ing , nce the arm was ded .
our ned ker hat tes tom - up nce out ody rts ( tom row ) is ble to ure the ast ing arm .
the ght ram ows the ame ion in rms of ual ing ror ( see ext ) .
ges , we ded the ons of 23d ers hed to the cts ody ing a ial ive ker ion ure tem .
ese red ker ons rve as the und uth in our ror ric .
ely , we con - der the ing ion ics
max = axi |mi i|| ,
ere m is the ber of ble ion - ure ers , mi are the rue 23d ons and mi are the ing 23d ons on the ted ace esh of the ked son .
ugh ual ion , we und hat ual ker ors |mi i|| of 23m or wer can be ter - ted as tly ked ers , nce his nds to the ate acy of the ded und uth ata .
on the her and , ker ors of 23m or ger can be ted as ing res .
in der to ate the ess of the ion of del - sed and ata - ven hes , we how the lts of two hms in ion to our sed lgo - thm on his ive set .
the thm led ep sts of our all thm ith cal ill - ing
ved .
it ply ses des ned by ep , and eps the one ith est ood .
the thm la - led hc sts of ust the del - sed ill - ing al - thm one .
we ote hat the esh del for all lgo - hms was ded emi - lly ing a are ser ner .
the int ons ere ned ing the ape thm ( 123 ) .
ure 123 ows cal lts on our ata set for all ree hms .
in the top nel , we how the ors of all hms .
the lts how hat the ata - ven hod in ion ( ep ) rms far rse han the her two ap - hes .
use of the igh ror of the ata - ven al - thm one , in the ing ots we nly der the del - sed thm and the ned thm .
in the tom nel , we ize the nce in ror een the ned ach ( +ep ) and the del - sed ap - ach ( hc ) .
in all the ces , the ned ach rms est or lly ell .
it is ing to ote hat on the der ces ( eft ide ) , the nce in nce is ore ced .
to yze his in ore ail , we der a ing rpt rom nce 23a ast , lly ded ten -
nis ing as zed in the eft nel in fig .
the ght nel in his ure ows the ace of the ror - ics com - ing the del - sed and ned thm on the ex - rpt .
in the ing , the ing arm mes com - ely ded , wed by ing tly ard .
the max ure ( max ror in the ram ) als hat nce the ill - ing ker ses ack , it ver ers .
our ned ach is ble to ain nd the ode and con - nue .
the eft nel in fig . 123 tes his ing ree ked mes rom the nce .
the top row tes hat the del - sed thm ely ses the rms , eas our thm is ble to nd the arm ter an oc - ion and tch the ing dge of the nis rve .
the ure lso tes ugh een nes rom the ted ody rts the ons hat the thm red , and how his les it to use nce ion to ull elf ack on ack .
lly , we lso red the cts of ood ing on the nce of the hms .
we und hat the oth ood ved the nce in rms of age ror oss all ces and mes by out 123 ent for the del sed thm and 123 per - ent for the ned thm .
the act hat it ped the ned ach ore may be a ult of the act hat the ion is not ays ose ugh to ain ack ith the non - oth ood ion .
in rms of ncy , oth hms are ose , ugh the ill - ing ach is ore ent .
the del - sed thm ran at out 123 mes per ond , eas the ned thm ran at 123 mes per ond .
ons and ure ork
the ous oal of ate eal - ime ing of hu - ans and her ted ies is one hat has ced ers for any ars due to the rge ber of use - ful ons .
ith the rid , gpu - ted ing ach ced in his per , we eve to ave ade a rge tep ard , but ere ain ore ges to ome .
ome les ude red nes , ack - ing ore han one son at a ime , ing the eed fur - her , and lly tic del ion .
ver , it uld be ing to ate nal ing dal - ies uch as lor ras or to ply the ped ech - ogy to reo ion ups .
nts .
his ork was ted by nsf ( iss 123 ) , uri ( 123 ) , and the ing any .
