sed and sed ing ods ave adi - lly sed on ata ing of ent ces of a gle ype .
ver , any eal - rld ins are est bed by nal els in ich ces of ple pes are ted to ach her in lex ays .
for xam - ple , in a tic per ain , ers are ted to ach her via ion , and are lso ted to eir ors .
in his ase , the bel of one ity ( e . g . , the pic of the per ) is of - ten ted ith the els of ted ies .
we ose a ral ass of els for ion and ing in re - nal ins hat ure tic ies be - een ted ces .
we how how to arn uch els tly rom ata .
we ent cal lts on two eal rld ata ets .
our nts in a ive las - ion ing ate hat acy can be tly ved by ing nal ies .
our lgo - thm lly ces a ery ral ior , ere our dge out one nce lps us ify ted nes , ich in urn elp us ify ers .
in an per - sed ing , our els ced ent ers ith a ery ral ion , ven for nce pes hat do not ave any tes .
ost sed and sed ing ods ume hat ata ces are ent and lly ted ( iid ) .
ous ion and ing hes ave een ned to ork on uch at ata , ere ach ata nce is a x ed - gth tor of ute val - ues ( see ( uda et al . , 123 ) for a vey ) .
ver , any eal - rld ata ets are uch her in ure , ing in - ces of ple pes hat are ted to ach her .
per - ext is one ple , ere web ges are ted by nks .
her ple is a ain of tic ers , ere pa - ers are ted to ach her via ion , and are lso ted to eir ors .
the iid ion is rly ted for two ers ten by the ame hor or two ers ked by ion , ich are ely to ave the ame pic .
tly , ere has een a ing est in ing ues for ore hly red ets .
nal nks een ces ide a que rce of for - ion hat has een ved ful for oth ion and ing in the ext ain ( ery and ven ,
23; erg , 123 ) .
ely , nal ing eth - ods mpt to use our dge out one ect to ach ons out her , ted cts .
for ple , we uld ike to ate ion out the pic of a pa - to ers hat it tes .
ese , in urn , uld ate ion to ers hat hey ite .
we uld lso ike to use ion out s pic to elp us ach ion out the rch rea of s hor , and out the ics of her ers ten by hat hor .
ral ors ave sed nal ion ods ong the nes of his nce ion dea .
lle and sen ( 123 ) ent an ive ion thm ich lly nts his ess tly , by ely ing els to est ces the ier is ent out , and ing ese els to ify ted ces .
ery and ell ( 123 ) ose an ive thm led oil - ubs for the lem of ify - ing web ges , e . g . , as ing to a ity ent or not .
ver , one of ese hes ses a gle ent del of the ons een ent ted ces .
nce hey are ced to ide a ely edu - ral ach , ere the lts of ent ion eps or hms are ned out a ing ple .
in ing , the sis so far has een on dic ata , uch as ord - ent co - nce ( ann and cha , 123 ) , ent ons ( ohn and ang , 123 ) , web nks ( ohn and ann , 23; erg , 123 ) , and ene ion ata .
rgs ubs and ies al - thm its the ink ure to ene a lly ein - ing hip een hub and ity ges , ere a ood hub age nts to any ood ies and a ood ity age is ted to by any ood ubs .
ese ues can be wed as nal ing ods for one or two pes of ces ( e . g . , web ges , nts and rds ) , ith a gle ion een hem ( e . g . , nks , ord nce ) .
ver , we uld ike to del her res ent in any eal rld ins ith ple pes of ces and lex ips een hem .
for ple , in a vie ase the nce pes ght be ies , ors , ors , and ers .
in - ces of the ame ype may lso be tly ted .
in a tic per ase , a per is bed by its set of rds and its ons to the ers it tes ( as ell as to the ors who ote it ) .
we uld ike to ify , for ach in - nce ype , sub - ons ( or nts ) of ces hat are lar in oth eir tes and eir ons to her
in his per , we ose a ral ass of ive tic els for ion and ing in ela - nal ata .
the key to our ach is the use of a gle tic del for the ire ase hat res ter - ons een ces in the ain .
our ork lds on the ork of tic nal els ( rms ) of ler and fer ( 123 ) hat end ian rks to a nal ing .
rms ide a age hat ows us to ure tic ies een ted ces in a ent way .
in lar , we use it to low pen - ies een the ass les of ted ces , pro - ing a led ism for ing ion
ike all ive tic els , our els ac - ate the ire rum een ely sed ion and ely sed ing .
hus , we can arn rom ata ere ome ces ave a ass bel and her do not .
we can lso eal ith ses ere one ( or ore ) of the nce pes oes not ave an ved ass ute by ing a new ent ass ble to pre - ent the ( ved ) ter .
ote hat , in nal mod - els , it is ten ble to ent the ata nto a ing and est set hat are ent of ach her nce the ain - ing and est ces may be ted .
ing ive dom ing to ect ing ces is ery ely to ver nks een ces in the ing and est set ata .
we ent his lty by ing a ive ing ing , ere we use the est ata , eit out the els , in the ing ase .
nce , ven if all the nce pes ave ved ass tes , the ing ase ves ing ith ent les .
we ide an ate em thm for ing uch rms ith ent les rom a nal ase .
his ask is ite lex : our els uce a lex web of ies een the ent les of all of the ies in the ata , ing ard hes ble .
we ide an ent ate thm hat les lin - rly ith the ber of ces , and hus can be ied to rge ata ets .
we ent tal lts for our ach on two ins : a set of tic ers and ors and a ase of ies , ors and ors .
our ion nts how hat the nal ion des a ial ost in acy .
ied to a ing ask , we how hat our ods are ble to oit the nal ure and nd ent ers ven for nce pes hat do not ave any tes .
123 ive els for nal ata tic ion and ing are ten wed rom a ive ive as a ity ion ask .
ata ces are med to be ent and nti - lly ted ( iid ) les rom a ure del tri - in ing , a ent ass dom ble is ted ith the nce to ate its ter .
her tes of an nce are hen med to be les
ion .
ach nce ngs to tly one of
rom a ion ted ith its ass .
a ple yet ful del ten sed for his ion is the ive in the ive yes del , the tes of ach nce are med to be lly ent ven the ass ble .
ugh his nce as - ion is ten tic , his del has ess ven to be ust and ive for ion and lus - ing oss a ide nge of ons ( uda et al . , 23; man and utz , 123 ) .
oth ion and ter - ing lve ion of the ers of the ive yes el; ver , ing is tly ore ult due to the nce of ent les .
the iid ion ade by ese ard ion and ing els is ate in ich nal do - ins , ere ent ces are ted to ach her , and are ore ely to be ted .
in his ion , we ibe a tic del for ion and ter - ing in nal ins , ere ies are ted to ach her .
our ion zes the ork of oba - tic nal els ( rms ) ( ler and fer , 23; man et al . , 123 ) .
123 tic nal els a prm is a ate for a ity ion ver a re - nal ase of a ven ema .
it ies tic els for ent ses of ies , ing lis - tic ies een ted cts .
ven a set of in - ces and ons een hem , a prm nes a int ity ion ver the tes of the ces .
nal ema .
a nal ema bes at -
is ted ith a set of at - is lso ted ith a set
tes and ons of a set of nce pes
ach ype .
ach ype of ped ary ons ion ith the ype to use the ion as a set - ued ion , ose lue is the set of ces " ! ted to an nce ple , for an tor # , #
ole is the set of ies in ich
we ate ach
of its rst ent , ing us
the tor has red .
in ain ses , ons ght ave tes of eir own .
for ple , the ole ion ght be ted ith the ute dit - der , ich tes the ing of the tor in the its .
we can uce an cit ype ing to the ion .
in his ase , a ion ect is elf ted to oth of its nts .
for ple , if one of the ole cts is ryl eep in ies ice , his ole ect uld be ted to the tor ect ryl eep and the vie ect ies ice .
by ion , ese ons are any - to - one .
it ill be ful to ish be -
% ) , and ion
ies the set of cts in ach ype , the ons hat old een hem , and the ues of the to ote the
een ity pes ( uch as $&% ( ' * ) , +& - or . / 123 ( 123 pes ( uch as 123 tes for all of the cts .
a ton 123
the cts and the ons .
we ill use 123 set of cts of ype tic del .
a tic nal del : 123 of the nal ema .
ore ely , a prm is a tem -
ies a ity ion ver a set of ons
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 )
ure 123 : ( a ) del for mdb in; ( b ) del for ora in; ( c ) ent of led ork for ora del .
ate , ich is ted for ent ons 123
the re - ult of his ion is a tic del ver a set of dom les ing to all of the tes of all of the cts in the ton .
we can iew a prm as a com - act way of ing a ian ork for any ton ver his ema .
a prm sts of a ive ncy ure , and the ers ted ith it , ure is ned by ing ith ach ute
set of nts pa
the ncy has the orm
( rms lso low
ies ong ins of ons , but we ave sen to mit ose for ity of ion . )
ach ent of
for a ven ton 123 led ian ork ver the dom les nts of the orm the nce of
, the prm ure ces an un - nds lly on par - is not gle - is lly a set of dom les , one .
we ess his lem by ing as nce on an ag - ate ion ( e . g . , ode or ean ) of the set of ues of ese les ( see low ) .
ote hat if
hen one
the ive art of the prm ies the eri - ion of the del .
ven a set of nts for an ute , we can ene a cal ity del by ing ith it a nal ity ion ( cpd ) .
for ach ute
the cpd nts the nce on the lue of the gre - in the led net -
we ave a cpd hat ies of the nts is of the orm
the cpd for
ork , for ery
is sed for .
hus , the cpd for
any mes in the ork .
tes .
ere are any ble ces of gre - ion tor to low ies on a set of les .
an ous ice for cal les is the ode ag - ate , ich tes the ost mon lue of its par -
let the ain of ach
ore ely , der ome ble ose par - we ish to ate nto a gle
tor is as ows : we ene a ion
for ach ; ven a set of ues for for the lue ich is the ost
has the ame ain .
the ect of the ode
, we use
mon in his set .
the ode tor is not ery ive to the ibu - ion of ues of its ts; for ple , it not fer - ate een a hly wed and a rly orm set of ues hat ave the ame ost ent lue .
an gre - ate hat ter cts the lue ion is a tic ode tor .
in his ase , we ill ene a set of dis -
, but the ect of the tor is hat
is a ted age of ese ibu - is the ncy of his lue .
we ish his ior by ing
ons , ere the ght of
an ate ble ned as ows .
the ate ble lso kes on val -
hat ake on the lue
the red ect .
be the ber of les
hen we ene
it is asy to ify hat his tor has tly
we ote hat his ate can lso be wed as a ran - zed tor ode hat ses one of its nts uni - mly at dom and kes on its lue .
one ing con - nce is hat , ike min or max , the tic del can be sed to low its ion as a cpd to ale lin - rly ith the ber of nts .
we ply ose the ate in a ing ary ree .
the rst yer tes tes of int irs , ith ach ate mly ing the lue of one of its ts; the ing yer ats the ure for int irs of lts rom the rst yer , and so on .
( his ion can lso be ded to
mit ils for ack of ace . )
ses ere the ber of les is not a wer of # ; we 123 ion and ing els we use the prm ork as the sis of our els for nal ion and ing .
as in the at rob - tic ive hes , our ach is sed on the use of a ial ble to ent the ass or the ter .
his ble is the ard ass ble in the ssi - ion ask .
as ual , we eal ith the ing ask by ing a new ent ass ble .
hus , for ach ity
as in at ion and ing , we ene the at - to end on the ass ble .
for ity , we ose the ive yes ncy del for the her
ass we ave a ted ute tes : for ach ute
, the nly ent of
ote hat we ave nly ned ass tes for ity pes .
we ect the tes of ion pes to the ass tes of the two ted ity pes .
hus , for ple , an ute uch as dit - der in the ion
% ill end on the ass tes of
ote hat , as the nce in his ase is gle -
ued by ion , no tes are ary .
ost in - gly , we lso low ect nce een ass tes of ted ies .
hus , for ple , we uld al - , or ice rsa .
in his ase , as the ion is any - to - any , we use tes , as bed ove .
low a nce of . / 123 ( 123
123 ( a ) ows a ple del for a vie set , ted rom the net vie ase ( mdb ) ( www . mdb . com ) .
we see hat ole is oth a ass on its own , as ell as ing the ion een ies and ors .
we ave sen , in his ase , not to ave the ute
dit - der end on the ass of ies , but nly of ors .
123 ( b ) ows a del for a ain of tic ers and ors , ved rom the ora set ( cal - lum et al . , 123 ) ( ora . ang . com ) .
in his ase , we see hat the tes ion cts two cts of the ame ype .
we ave sen to ake the ass ute of the ted per end on the ass ute of the ing per .
ote hat his ncy ars lic at the ype vel .
ver , all hat his del is nly a ate , ich is ted for lar ons to uce an led rk; fig .
123 ( c ) ows a ent of uch a ork .
if we do not ave ion les in the ain , hen his un - led ork is lic , and the prm ces a ent ity del ver the dom les of the ton .
( see ( man et al . , 123 ) for ore ils . )
we can lso use ent ble els to ent dic ing .
der , for ple , a ain ere we ave ple and ies , and a ion een hem hat cor - nds to a son ing a vie .
in his ase , we ill ave a ass ute ing ing the ual ing ven .
his at -
% , ing to the ion , ith the at - ute ill end on the ter tes of oth . / 123 ( 123 and $&% ( ' * ) , +& - , ing lly to a two - ded ing del .
ver , our ach is ble ugh to ate a uch her del , e . g . , ere we lso ave her tes of son , and aps an ire nal del for ies , uch as own in fig .
our ach ill ake all of his ion nto ion hen ing the lus -
123 ing the els we now how how we arn our els rom ata .
our ain - sts of a ial ion of the ema , one ere ing ept the ues of ome or all the ass tes is ven .
we can iew his ata as a gle rge ega - nce of the del , ith a rge ber of iss - ing ues .
ote hat we not iew the ata as a set of nde - ent ces ing to the cts in the del .
in our ing , we lly ume hat the ure of our ent ble del is ven , as bed in ion 123 .
hus , our ask is ter ion .
123 ter ion in his ase , we ume hat we are ven the tic de - , and eed nly ate the ers , i . e . , the pds of the tes .
a ard ach is to
use mum ood ( ml ) ion , i . e . , to nd if we had a ete ion 123
, the ood unc - ion has a que bal mum .
the mum ood ers can be und ery ily ply by ing oc - ces in the ata .
all hat all of the cts in the ame ass are the ame cpd .
hus , to ate the ter for
, we ply der all cts of ass
, and unt the ber of mes hat ach ion 123
and its nts tly ake .
ese nts are own as ent ics .
see ( man et al . , 123 ) for ils .
the ase of ete ata is lly ore com - in his ase , the ood ion has ple lo - cal ima , and no ral hod sts for ing the bal mum .
the ion ion ( em ) al - thm ( ter et al . , 123 ) , des an ach for ing a cal mum of the ood ion .
art -
for the ers , em tes
the ing two eps .
the e - tep tes the ion ver the ved les ven the ved ata and the be the set of
ing rom an ial ess ent ate of the ers .
ing ved ter les , we ute
rom ich it can ute the ted ent ics :
to ute the ior ion ver the den ari - les , we ust run nce ver the del .
the m - tep re - tes the ers by ing the ood ith ect to the ion ted in the e - tep .
123 ief ion for e tep to orm the e tep , we eed to ute the ior dis - ion ver the ved les ven our ata .
his nce is ver the led ork ned in ion 123 .
we not ose his ask nto ate nce sks ver the cts in the del , as hey are all ted .
( in ome ses , the led ork may ave ral ted nts hat can be ted ly; ver , it ill lly ain one or ore rge ted nts . ) in ral , the led ork can be rly lex , in - ing any cts hat are ted in ous ays .
our nts , the rks lve ens of nds of des . ) act nce ver ese rks is rly im - cal , so we ust ort to ate nce .
ere is a ide ety of ion mes for ian net - rks .
for ous ons ( ome of ich are bed be - low ) , we ose to use ief ion .
ief aga - ion ( bp ) is a cal age ing thm ced by arl ( arl , 123 ) .
it is eed to rge to the cor - ect nal ies for ach ode nly for gly con - ted ian rks .
ver , cal lts ( mur - phy and iss , 123 ) how hat it ten ges in ral
rks , and hen it oes , the als are a ood rox - ion to the ect ors .
( hen bp oes not con - rge , the als for ome des can be ery ate .
his ens ery ely in our nts and oes not af - ect nce of em . )
a ily aph , ith a ode
pd; i . e . , if
for ach ble
we ide a ief ine of one ant of bp , ing to ( phy and iss , 123 ) for ore ils .
der a ian ork ver ome set of des ( ich in our ase uld be the les ) .
we rst ert the aph nto
and its nts .
two des are ted if hey ave ome ble in mon .
the cpd of
ent the tor ned by the
, , hen is a ion rom the ins of ese les to hat ses our is not ved
the ief ion thm is now ery ple .
at ach ion , all the ily des sly end mes - age to all ers , as ows :
ins the les to be a tor ver
, we ave hat
our ior ion is hen is a ing ant .
is a ( ent ) ing ant and
in the ily aph .
set of ies hat are ors of at any int in the thm , our nal ion out
his ess is ted til the efs rge .
ive us the nal ibu - ion ver ach of the ies in the led ork .
ese als are ely hat we eed for the ion of the ted ent ics .
ter nce , the
we ote hat lly bp oes not ge; to lle - ate his lem , we art the em thm rom ral ent ing nts ( ial ses ) .
as our lts in ion 123 how , his ach rks ell in ice .
123 nce ion ver ons ong the ong ons for ing a nal del is its ity to del ies een ted ces .
as bed in the ion , we uld ike to ate ion out one ect to elp us ach ons out her , ted cts .
tly , ral ers ave sed a ess ong the nes of his nce rop - ion dea .
lle and sen ( 123 ) ose an era - ive ion thm ich lds a ier sed on a lly ved nal ing et; the ier ses oth ase tes and ore nal tes ( e . g . , the ber of ted ies of a ven ype ) .
it hen ses his ier on a est set ere the ase tes are ved , but the ass les are not .
ose ces hat are las - ied ith igh nce are ily led ith the ted ss; the ion thm is hen run , ith the nal ion .
the ess ats ral mes .
the ion acy is own to ove lly as the ess tes .
ery and ell ( 123 ) ose an ion of his dea to the lem of ing web ges , e . g . , as ong - ing to a ity ent or not .
hey rst ain a ier on a set of led nts , and use it to ify ocu - nts in the est set .
to ify ore nts in the est set , hey est ing the ion of the est set ges and the nal ure of the est set .
as a oti - ing ple , hey ibe a rio ere ere sts a age hat nts to ral her ges , ome of ich ere ied as ent ome ges .
eir ach ies to den - ify his age as a ent ory age , and ude hat her ges to ich it nts are lso ore ely to be stu - ent ges .
hey how hat ion acy ves by ing the nal ure .
her of ese hes ses a gle ent del of the ies een ted cts and hus ine ent ion eps or hms out a ing ple .
our ach ves the nce rop - ion ect ugh the tic ces ced by the led ian ork ver the ces in our do - ain .
for ple , in the ora ain , our ork els ons een the ics of ers hat ite ach her .
hus , our efs out the pic of one per ill nce our efs out the pic of its ted ers .
in ral , tic nce ows ugh ive ths in the un - led ork , ing efs out one ter to nce ers to ich it is ted ( tly or tly ) .
ver , the use of ief ion nts his ect tly .
by ing a cal age rom one ily to her in the ily aph ork , the thm tes our efs out one ble to her les to ich it is di - tly ted .
we ate his rty in the ext
his ing nce is rly ful in our ame - ork due to the ion of the em thm .
the em thm cts a nce of els , ing the oba - ies ved rom the ief ion thm to ain a new del .
nce , we not nly use our tic in - nce ess to ead the ion in the nal ure , we hen use the lts to uct a ter las - ier , ich in urn ows us to ain ven ter lts , etc .
rom a ent ive , we are ing the ure in the est set not nly to ide ter ons , but lso to arn a ter ier .
as we how low , his pro - ess lts in ial nts in acy ver the ons of em .
we ote hat his ing ity ses ery lly in the tic ork , ere it is lso ted ith ing nce ees .
we ted our hod on the ora and mdb ata ets .
the ure of the ora set , and the del we sed , are own in fig .
123 ( b , c ) .
for our nts , we ted a set of 123 ers rom the ine arn - ing ory , ong ith 123 of eir ors .
ese ers are ied nto ven ics : tic ods , neu - ral rks , ent ing , ule ing , ase - sed , and ory .
ors & ons ( ac ) ave yes ( nb )
ure 123 : ( a ) son of ion es; ( b ) nce ion in bp; ( c ) acy ent in em .
we ted the ity of our thm to use the ela - nal ure to aid in ion .
we ook our ire ata set , and hid the ons for all but a ion of the ers .
we hen ted our del sed on all of his ata , ing the nts ose ics ere nob - ved .
the ing del was sed to ify the pic for the est nts .
in ect , we are ing a ype of ion , ere the est set is lso sed to ain the del ( eit out the ass els ) .
to ate how our hod ets rom ing the nal ure , we red our ent mod - els ich ary in the unt of nal ion hey use .
the ine del oes not use nal ion at all .
it is a ard ial ive yes del ( nb ) ver the set of rds ( bag of rds del ) in the act .
the ull del ( ac ) was own in fig .
123 ( b ) ; it kes use of oth the ors and ons .
the her two els are nts of ac : del a tes nly the hor for - ion ( ing the ion ion rom the del ) , and del c nly ons .
all our els ere ned ing em; del nb was ned ing act em and the ers ing our thm of ion 123
we zed the pds for the ord tes ing the pds in a ive yes del hat was ned nly on the ved ion of the ata set .
all els ere zed ith the ame pds .
we ied the age of led ers , ing rom 23% to 23% .
for ach ent age , we ted the ion acy ver ve dom ing / est its .
the lts are own in fig .
ach int is the age of the acy on the ve uns , and the ror ars ond to the ard ror .
as can be een , ing ore nal ies tly ves ion acy .
oth a and c orm the ine del , and the ned del ac ves by far the est acy .
the cal age ing of opy ief ion ( bp ) les the ess of ing the nce of efs for a lar nce to
as sed in ion 123 ,
ral led ers .
pon ion , we ave ome ial rom its rds one .
ver , ter the rst ion , his ief ill be ted to ect the els of the ers it tes , and is ely to ome ore
its ted ces .
for ple , ose per tes sev - ief out the pic of ked und a gle lue , ing the nce in s
in the ing ion , led ers hat ite ( as ell as led ers hat tes ) ill be ted to ect the sed nce out the pic of
, and so on .
to ure his ect , we ine the ief ate of the pic ble of the led ers ter ery ion of opy ief ion .
for ery ion , we ort the ion of les ose pic can be ned ith igh nce , i . e . , ose ief for a gle pic is ove a .
123 ( b ) ows ral ies of ese mea - nts on a set ith 23% led ers .
the ies how bp ons med hin the rst , ird and sev - nth ion of em .
ach ies ows a ual ase of the ion of ers ose ics we are ent in .
the acy on ose igh - nce ers is rly ant ver the ons und 123 , 123 , and 123 for the rst , ird and nth ion of em , ely .
opy ief ion is an ion to the fer - nce red for the e tep of em .
ugh opy bp is not eed to rge , in our nts , it lly ges to a ion ich is ood ugh to low em to ake ess .
eed , fig .
123 ( c ) ows hat the ssi - ion acy ves for ery em ion .
his g - ure lso tes the nce ent ned rom ing the lts of ive ion , as sed in ion 123
the tes and ons in the mdb ase , and the ent ble del we sed , are own in are own in fig .
123 ( a ) ; the nre ute lly ers to a set of 123 ary tes ( ion , edy , .
ote hat ors and ors ave ost no ive tes and nce can - not be red lly out ing eir ela - ons .
we ted a set of his ase hat ins 123 ies , 123 ors , and 123 ors .
in fig .
123 , we how two ple ers for ach ass , ing ral est nce ers of the ers .
in ral , ers for ies ist of ies of pre - tly of a lar nre , ime iod and ity .
for ple , the rst vie ter own can be led as sic als and ens lms .
the ond ter cor - nds hly to ion / ure / sci - ies .
del , the ers for ors and ors are nal in ure , nce hey are ced by the vie tes .
for ple , the rst ter of ors sts ily of ion
nts .
his ork was ted by onr act 123 - 123 - c - 123 der pas pkb pro - ram .
ran gal was lso ted by a ord ate
