ing the ult ize of lex ies hat lve ion on mul - ple tes and the oin of ral ons is a ult but tal ask in ase ery ing .
it ses in ost - sed ery iza - ion , ery ing , and ate ery ing .
in his per , we how how tic cal els can be ely sed for his ask as an ate and act ion of the int ncy dis - ion of ple tes oss ple ons .
tic re - nal els ( rms ) are a ent ent hat nds cal cal els uch as ian rks to nal ins .
hey ent the cal ies een tes hin a ble , and een tes oss ign - key ins .
we ide an ent lgo - thm for ing a prm rom a ase , and how how a prm can be sed to ute ity tes for a oad ass of ies .
one of the jor ons of his ork is a ied ork for the es - ion of ies ing oth ect and ign - key oin ons .
ore , our ach is not ted to ing a all set of pre - ned es; a gle del can be sed to ely ate the zes of a ide ion of ial ies oss ple les .
we ent lts for our ach on ral eal - rld ses .
for oth gle - ble lti - ute ies and a ral ass of ect - oin ies , our ach ces ore ate tes han ard hes to ity ion , ing ble ace and ime .
ate tes of the ult ize of ies are ial to sev - ral ery ing nts of a ase ent sys - tem ( bms ) .
ost - sed ery ers use ate ult ize tes to ose the mal ery ion lan .
ery ers ide ack to a bms ser ing the ery de - ign ase by ing rce ion and ion of ery lts .
ise ity tes lso low ent oad ing for lel oin on sor ems .
ity tes can lso be sed to ely wer ing ( ag -
the ult ize of a ion ery ver ple tes is de - ned by the int ncy ion of the ues of ese tes .
the int ion des the ies of all
ion to ake tal or ard ies of all or art of his ork for nal or oom use is ted out fee ded hat ies are not ade or ted for rot or ial age and hat ies ear his ice and the ull ion on the rst age .
to opy ise , to ish , to ost on ers or to ute to sts , res ior cic ion and / or a fee .
acm mod 123 may 123 - 123 , nta ara , nia , usa ght 123 acm 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 . . . 123 .
ons of ute ues , so ing it tly mes ble as the ber of tes and ues ses .
ost ial ems ate the int ion by ing ral key ns; ese ons low ast ion of ity tes , but , as any ave ted , the tes can be ery ate .
the rst mon ion is the ute lue nce ion , der ich the ons of ual tes are ent of ach her and the int ion is the rod - uct of gle - ute ons .
ver , eal ata ten con - ain ong ons een tes hat ate his ump - ion , ing to ery ate ons .
for ple a cen - sus ase ght ain hly ted tes uch as in - ome and ome - ner .
the ute lue nce ump - ion uld ead to an ate of the ult ize of a ery hat sks for low - ome ome - ers .
a ond mon ion is the oin ity ump - ion , ich tes hat a ple rom one ion is lly ely to oin ith any ple rom the ond ion .
ain , ere are any ons in ich his ion is ted .
for xam - ple , ume hat our sus ase has a ond ble for ine ses .
igh - ome als lly ake ore ine ses han age .
ore , a ple in the ses ble is ore ely to oin ith a ple of a igh - ome ual , eby ing the oin ity ion .
if we der a ery for ses by igh - ome als , an ion ure hat kes the oin ity ion is ely to lly ate the ery ize .
to lax ese ons , we eed a ore ned ach , hat kes nto ion the int ion ver ple at - tes , her han the ons ver the tes in ola - ion .
ral hes to int ion ion , lso red to as ata ion , ave een sed ly; see ( 123 ) for an ent ary of his rea .
ost of his ork has fo - sed on the ask of ing the ity of a ect ion the ect ity hin a gle ble .
one ple ap - ach for ing the ery ize is via dom ing .
ere , a set of les is ted , and hen the ery ult ize is ted by ing the ual ery ult ize ive to the led ata .
ver , the unt of ata red for ate ion can be ite rge .
ore tly , ral hes ave een sed hat mpt to ure the int ion ver tes ore tly .
the est of ese is the idi - nal ram ach of ala and dis ( 123 , 123 ) .
hey ide an ive ion of the omy of ods for ing nal ams and udy the fec - ess of ent ues .
hey lso ose an ach sed on lar lue ion , ble nly in the two -
nal ase .
a wer ach is the use of ets to ap - ate the ing int ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
uch ess ork has een one on ing the ity of ins .
ial mss nly ake the orm oin as - ion .
one ach hat has een ted is sed on ran - dom ing : mly ple the two les , and ute eir oin .
his ach is wed in ral ays ( 123 ) , and ome ork has een ted to ive hes hat ate les in a ore ted way ( 123 ) .
an ive ent ach is the ork of rya et al .
( 123 ) on oin ses , ich ins ics for a few hed ins .
to our dge , no ork has een one on hes hat ort ity ion for ies ing oth ect and oin ons in eal - rld do -
in his per , we ose an ive ach for the lec - ity ion lem , sed on ues rom the rea of tic cal els ( 123 , 123 ) .
as we ill how , our ap - ach has ral ant ges .
rst , it des a uni - orm ork for ect ity ion and ign - key oin ity ion , ing a tic hod for es - ing the ize of ies ing oth ors .
ond , our ach is not ted to ing a all set of ned es; a gle cal del can be sed to ely sti - ate the zes of any ( ect ign - key oin ) ery , ver any set of les and tes in the ase .
tic cal els are a age for tly rep - ing lex int ons ver igh - nal ces .
hey are sed on a cal ion hat des nal nce een tes in the ion .
nal nce ses hen two tes are ted , but the in - ion is ted via one or ore her les .
for xam - ple , in a sus ase , ion is ted ith ome , and ome - ner tus is ted ith ome .
nce , ion is ted ith ome - ner tus , but nly tly via the in - ome vel .
ons of his ype are ely mon in eal ins .
tic cal els oit the nal in - ies hat ist in a ain , and eby low us to ify int ons ver igh nal ces tly .
in his per , we ide a ork for ing tic cal els to ate ity of ies in a nal ase .
as we how , ian rks ( bns ) ( 123 ) can be sed to ent the ons een tes in a gle ble , pro - ing igh - ity tes of the int ion ver the at - tes in hat ble .
tic nal els ( rms ) ( 123 ) 123 end ian rks to the nal ing .
as we how , rms low us to ent kew in the oin ies een les , as ell as ons een tes of les ned via a ign - key .
hey eby low us to ate ity of ies ing oth cts and ins ver ple les .
ike ost ity ion hms , our thm con - sts of two ses .
the ine ase , in ich the prm is con - ted rom the ase .
his ess is tic , sed ely on the ata and the ace ted to the cal del .
the ond , ine ase , is the ity ion for a lar ery .
the ity tor ves as put a ery and a prm , and uts an ate for the ult ize of the ery .
ote hat the ame prm is sed to ate the ize of a ery ver any set of the tes in the se; we are not red to ave ior ion out the ery oad .
the erm tic nal els has two ery nct ngs in two ent ies : the tic ing ity ( 123 ) and the ase ity ( 123 , 123 ) .
we use the erm in its mer nse .
out his per , we ake two ant ons .
the rst is hat ign eys bey ial ity .
his ion out the ase is red in the ion of the prm .
the ond is hat all ins are ity ins een a ign key and a ary key .
his ion is ade ely for ase of sen - ion .
ile ies ith ign - key ins and to net ost rom the tic els hat we ose , our ods are not ted to ing ith ese ies and we ibe how to end our ach to a der ass of ins in ion 123
the der of the per is red as ows .
in ion 123 , we der the ase of ity ion for ect ons ver a gle ble .
we ene ian rks , and how how hey can be sed to ate the int ion ver the en - ire set of tes in the ble .
in ion 123 , we ove to the ore lex ase of ies ver ple les .
we ent the prm ork , ich zes ian rks to the nal ase , and how how we can use rms to ish oth ect and oin ity ion in a gle ork .
in ion 123 , we ent an thm for lly ing a prm rom a nal ase .
in ion 123 , we ide cal ion of our ach , and are it to ome of the ost mon ex - ing hes .
we ent nts ver ral eal - rld ins , ing hat our ach des uch her ccu - acy ( in a ven unt of ace ) han ous hes , at a ery ble nal ost , oth ine and ine .
ion for gle les
we rst der ing the ult ize for ect ies ver a gle ion .
for ost of his ion , we ict ion to ins ere the ber of ues for ach ute is ely all ( up to out 123 ) , and to ies ith ity tes of the orm ute = lue .
her of ese ons is a fun - tal ion of our ch; at the end of his ion , we uss how our ach can be ied to ins ith ger ute lue ces and to nge ies .
eal ith the zed ncy ion
be ome le; we use . * to ote the lue ( non - key ) .
we ote the int ncy tri - .
it is ent to
, and hen ect as the ues of
his ion ows us to eat as a rob - ity ion .
we can lso iew his int ion as ted by an ary ess , ere we ple a ple ing ess sed to ene ely ing it as a way of ing
( ote hat we are not ing hat the sam - be ied out in ice .
we are
now , der a ery . * , ich is a ion of ons of the orm #$ be the ent hat the ies in the ize of the ult of the ery
ver a set of tes
it is ear hat
is the ber of les ing the ity , ive to ' .
to ify ion , we ill ten ply use .
as the ize of the ion is own , the int ity ion ins all the ary ion for ery ize ion .
nce , we cus ion on the int ity ion .
, of the nt# $
ely , the ber of ies in his int ion ows lly in the ber of tes , so hat tly
ing the int ion is ost ays ble .
ral hes ave een sed to ent his sue by ing the int ion ( or ons of it ) ing a ore act ure ( 123 , 123 ) .
we lso ose the use of tis - cal els hat ate the ull int ion .
ver in der to ent the ion in a act ner , we oit the nal nce hat ten lds in a int ion ver eal - rld ata .
by ing the ion of a int ion nto ors hat ure the ies hat old in the ain , we get a act ion for the ion .
123 nal nce der a ple ion ith the ing ree lue at - tes , ach ith its lue ain own in ses : uca - ion ( igh - ool , ege , ced - ree ) , ome ( low , ium , igh ) , and ome - ner ( lse , rue ) .
as and , we ill use the rst ter in ach of ese mes to ote the ute , ing tal ers for the tes and wer ase ers for lar to ote a ity tri - ues of the tes .
we use ion ver the ble ues of ute the ity of the ent
ume hat the int ion of ute ues in a ase is as own in fig .
ing his int ion , we can com - ute the ity of any ery ver .
as and , we ill use
to ote a ect ery of the orm
ver , to tly ent the int ion we eed to ore 123 num - ers , one for ach ble ion of ues for the tes .
( in act , we can get way ith 123 ers use we now hat the ies in the int ion ust sum to 123 )
hen ze$
in any ses , ver , our ata ill bit a ain ure hat ows us to ( ely ) ent the ion ing a uch ore act orm .
the ion is hat ome of the ela - ons een tes ght be ect nes , ted by her tes .
for ple , the ect of ion on ing a ome ght be ted by ome : a igh - ool out who wns a ful net tup is ore ely to own a ome han a hly ted ach bum the ome is the ant tor , not the ion .
his ion is zed by the ent hat ome - ner is lly ent of ion ven
, we ave hat :
ome , i . e . , for ery ons of ues
his ion lds for the ion of fig
the nal nce ion ows us to ent the int ion ore tly in a red orm .
her , we ill ent : the nal dis - ; a nal ion of in - ion ver ion ; and a nal ion ome ven ion of ome - ner ven ome .
it is asy to ify hat his ion ins all of the ion in the rig - nal int ion , if the nal nce ion
ere the ast ity ows rom the nal nce .
in our ple , the int ion can be ted ing the ree les own in fig .
it is asy to ify hat hey do ode ely the ame int ion as in fig
the age ent for the red ion ems to
, as ore .
in act , if we unt for the act
hat ome of the ers are ant use the ers
ust add up to 123 , we get ! ! " #$ , as red to the &% we had in the ull int .
ile the ngs in his ase may
not eem rly ive , the ngs row lly as the ber of tes ses , as ong as the ber of ect ies ins ded .
ote hat the nal nce ion is ery dif - ent rom the ard ute nce ion .
in his ase , for ple , the one - nal ams ( i . e . , nal ons ) for the ree tes are own in fig .
it is asy to see hat the int ion hat we uld ain rom the ute nce ion in his ase is ery ent rom the rue ing int ion .
it is lso ant to ote hat our nal nce ion is ble ith the ong ion hat sts een ome - ner and ion in his ion .
hus , nal nce is a uch ker and ore ble ion han ard ( nal )
123 ian rks
ian rks ( 123 ) are act cal ons for igh - nal int ons .
hey oit the the un - ing ure of the ain the act hat nly a few cts of the ain ect ach her tly .
we ene our bil - ity ace as the set of ble nts to the set of tes .
bns can tly ent a int
by ing a ure hat res nal ces ong tes , eby ing van - age of the ity of tic ces .
of a ion
a ian ork '
sts of two nts .
the rst , is a ted lic aph ose des ond .
the ges in the aph ote a di - to the tes
ect nce of an ute cal ure des a set of nal nce as - ons : ach ode is lly ent of its non - nts ven its nts .
on its nts nts
123 ( a ) ows a ian ork ted ( lly ) rom ata ned rom the 123 ent ion vey of u . s .
sus eau ing eir ata ion tem ( 123 ) .
in his ase , the ble ins 123 tes : age , ker - ass , uca - ion , tal - tus , try , ace , sex , ild - ort , ner , ren , ome , and ent - ype .
the ain zes for the tes are , ely : 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123
we see , for ple , hat the ren ute ( ing her or not ere are ren in the old ) nds on her at - tes nly via the tes ome , age , and tal - tus .
hus , ren is lly ent of all her tes ven ome , age , and tal - tus .
the ond ent of a bn bes the cal ion - it sts of a ndi - hip een ach ode and its nts .
nal ity ion ( cpd ) ach ute , ich ies the ion ver the ues of ven any ble ent of ues to its nts .
his cpd may be ted in a ber of ays .
it may be pre - ted as a ble , as in our ier ple .
ely , it can be ted as a ree , ere the ior ces ent its , and the ves ain tri - on the lue of ome ent of .
in his ion , we nd the ons ver the ues of nal ion ver ven a lar ice of val -
for its nts by ing the ate ath in the ree own to a eaf : hen we ter a lit on ome ble 123 , we go own the nch ond - ing to the lue of 123 ; we hen use the ion red at hat
h m f c m f a m f
ure 123 : ( a ) the int ity ion for a ple ple .
( b ) a ion of the int ion hat its nal nce .
( c ) the gle - ute ity ams .
* ' ' 123 123
$ , 123 / 123 " +
% *+ %
ure 123 : ( a ) a ian ork for the sus ain .
( b ) a ree - red cpd for the ren ode ven its nts ome , age and tal - tus .
the cpd ree for the ren ute in the ork of fig .
123 ( a ) is own in fig .
the ble ues for his at - ute are n / a , yes and no .
we can see , for ple , hat the k ! k , and ion ver ren ven ome j ; the tri -
n , and tal - tus ion ven ome j , age m , as is the ion ven ome j n , and tal - tus
the nal nce ons ted ith the , her ith the pds ted ith the des , ely ine a int ity ion ver the tes via the
ons ead to the ame ced ath own the ree .
wed : the two tan -
, age m
, age m
( his ula is ely ous to the one we sed in eq .
( 123 ) for our ple ple rom ion 123 . ) hus , rom our act del , we can ver the int on; we do not eed to ent it tly .
in our ple ove , the ber of ies in the ull int ion is ely 123 ion , ile the ber of ers in our bn is 23a ant ion !
123 bns for ery ion
our nal nce ons ond to ity nts on the int ion in the ase ble .
in ral , of rse , ese ies ill ely old tly .
in act , ven if the ata was ted by tly ing dom sam - les rom a ion hat ses the nal nce ( or ven nal nce ) ons , the ion ved rom the ies in our ata ill not sfy ese as - ons .
ver , in any ses we can ate the dis - ion ery ell ing a ian ork ith the ate ure .
we fer a ger ion of his sue to ion 123
a ian ork is a act ion of a ull int ion .
nce , it tly ins the wer to any ery out the ity of any ent of ues to a set of at - can ily use it to ate ume hat our ery ( ere we ate a nal ect ing tor ion ) .
hen we can com -
tes .
hus , if we uct a bn '
has the orm
for any ery
of rse , ing the ull int ion
) can be com -
lly ery ive , and is ost ays ble in the ime ing in ich ery ize is lly ted .
hus , we eed a ore ent thm for ing ugh the lem of ing his ity is np - ard in the rst ase , bn nce is lly ery ent for ork res red in ice .
the ard bn nce al - hms ( 123 ) use ial - ose aph - sed hms hat ex - oit the cal ure of the ork .
the ity of ese hms nds on ain ral ers ing to the ity of the aph .
ese ers are lly all for ost eal - rld els , ing ery ive nce for any rks ith eds of des or ore ( 123 , 123 ) .
at the art of his ion , we ade ral ons .
we now ibe how to lax ese ons .
rst , we ade the ion hat our ect ons sed nly ity tes .
it is ard to end the ues hat we ave ust de - bed for ing the ity of an ent of ues to a set of tes to dle nge ies by ing the rob - ity hat an ent of ues to the tes lls in hat nge .
we ply sum ver all ial lue nts tis - ing the nge nts .
ile at rst nce , his may und ite ive , the bn nce hms bed ove can be ily ted to ute ese ues out any ase in nal ity .
the ond ant ion hat we ave een ing is hat the ins for the tes are all to ely zed .
we can ift his ion on our bns by ing ues hat ave een ped for ion of ain ues ( 123 , 123 ) .
in ses ere ain ues are not nal , we can use ure ies if hey are ble ( 123 ) or we may use any of a ber of ing hms .
nce we ave ilt a bn ver the zed or ted ute lue ace , we ust now ify our ery ion ues to ide tes for ies ver the ase vel ues .
one hod for ing his is to ply ute the ity ate for an act ery , ich aps the ase vel ues to eir ate zed or ted lue , and to hen ute an ate for the ase vel ery by ing a orm ion hin the ult .
oin ity ion
in the ous ion , we ted ion to ies ver a gle ble .
in his ion , we end our ach to eal ith ies ver ple les .
we ict ion to ses sat - ing ial ity : let be a for - ign key in for ery ple .
out his per , we ict ion to ign .
we ill use the erm
hat ers to ome ble ith ary key l
ere ust be ome ple
be a ble , and let
key ins ins of the orm oin as a and for his ype of oin .
123 ing two les
der a cal ase ith two les : ent , ain - ing sis ( tb ) nts , and act , ing ple ith hom a ent has had act , and who may or may not be in - ted ith the ase .
we ght be ted in ing ies ing a oin een ese two les .
for ple , we ght be ted in the ing ery : ent . age = 23+ and con - act . ent = ent . ent - id and act . ype = ate , i . e . , ing all nts ose age is ver 123 who ave had act ith a ate .
a ple ach to his lem uld eed as ows : by ial ity , ach ple in act ust oin ith tly one ple in .
ore , the ize of the ned ion ,
ior to the cts , is .
we hen ute the ity
of ent . age = 23+ and the ity ate , and ate the ize of the ing ery as
of act . ype =
his ive ach is wed in two ays .
rst , the tes of the two ent les are ten ted .
in ral , for - ign eys are ten sed to ect les in ent les hat are lly ted , and nce the tes of les ted ugh ign key ins are ten ted .
for ple , ere is a ear ion een the age of the ent and the ype of cts hey ve; in act , rly nts ith tes are ite are , and his ive ach uld ate eir ber .
ond , the ity hat two les oin ith ach her can lso be ted ith ous tes .
for ple , dle - ged nts lly ave ore cts han der pa - nts .
hus , ile the oin ize of ese two les , ior to the ion on ent age , is , the ion of the ned tu - les ere the ent is ver 123 is wer han the all ion of nts ver 123 hin the ent ble .
we ess ese ues by ing a ore ate del of the int ion of ese two les .
der two les .
we ene a int ity and ing an ary ing ess hat ran - and tly les a ple mly les a ple .
the two les may or may not oin ith ach her .
we uce a new oin tor ble to del his ent
, is ary ed; it is rue hen
ver the ues of the oin tor
his ing ess ces a ion , and the lue tes .
now , der
( ere ain we ate a nal ect ing
any ect - oin ery
tor ion ) .
it is asy to to see hat the ize of the ult of
in her rds , we can ate the ize of any ery of his orm ing the int ion ned ing our ing ess .
as we now how , an ion of the ues in ion 123 low us to ate his int ion ing a tic cal 123 tic nal els
tic nal els ( rms ) ( 123 ) end ian net - rks to the nal ing .
hey low us to del ons not nly een tes of the ame ple , but lso een tes of ted les in ent les .
his ion is ac - hed by ing , as a ent of an ute , an at - has a ign key for .
we can lso low ies on tes in ons hat are ted to via a ger ain of ns; to ify the ion , we mit the ion .
a prm for our tb ain is own in fig .
ere , for ple , we ave hat the ype of the act nds on the age and der of the ent .
in her ion
ion 123 . : a tic nal del ( prm )
for a nal ase is a air tic del for ach of the ing les :
for ach ble and ach ute
, ich ies a cal
. * a ble
ure 123 : ( a ) a prm for the sis ain .
( b ) a ery - ion bn for tb ain and the oin ery
, a ean oin tor
oes not ibe a ion ver a gle ble in ion .
the ity ion of an ute can end on nts hat are tes in her , ign - key ted les .
we ore eed to ene a int ity ion ver a ple all les on ich it nds .
to tee hat the set of les we ust der is ite , we ace a ion ion on our prm els .
ion 123 . : let d be a ial ing ver the les in our ase .
we say hat a ign key ent ith d sts a ial ing d we can now ene the mal ion to a ery
is ( ble ) ied if ere is a ent
a prm uch hat ver
is a ign key nto ) , hen
hat cts to
be a oin ery ver the ple les or may not fer to the ame les ) .
ion 123 . : let
ing two ons :
be a oin ery .
we ene the up - to be the mal ery hat ses the
e ins all of the oin ons in 123
for ach
, if ere is an ute
, hen ere is a que ple ble
e ins the oin
ple ble g
rom the act , hen
we can uct the ard ure for any ery and hat his set in the tb ain is ver a is ite .
for ple , if our ery is ver the ree ple ple ble ver ain .
ote hat ere is no ect nce of tes of act on tes of ain , but ere are pen - ies on ent , and the ion of the ple ble urn tes the ion of the ple ble .
ote hat , if we der a oin ery
is a ple ble ver ent and
ih hat ady ins a ple ari -
h is cal to the ure of
ble ith the int g . ent =
. ent - id , hen the ure ; i . e . , the ess ill not tro - uce a new ple ble if a ing one is ady ent .
we can end the ion of ard ure to ect - oin ies in the ous way : the ect ses are not ant to the ion of ard ure .
ard ing a ery oes not nge its ult ize :
ion 123 . : let
be a ery and let
ure .
hen ze$
fe be its ard
for ach ign key
for ach ble of the orm ies a set of nts nts has the orm nto ome ble and .
ies a cpd
, ere ach ent is a ign key of is an ute of ;
to end on
on an ute is ted to
his ork ows a tic nce of an ute .
his ype of nce nly kes nse via ome ign key nce : our prm els a ion ere are sen tly at om; ere is no son for eir tes to be ted ess hey are how ted .
nce , we ain the prm del to .
ore ely , we ire hat if be a ent of ned for ses ere ue; in her rds , in the cpd is at the oot of the ree , and nly the ork in ote hat the oin tor ble lso has nts and a cpd .
der the prm for our tb ain .
the oin tor ble ich tes her the ain is que in the ion or has red in ore han one ent .
ere are lly ree ses : for a non - que ain and a ent hat was orn ide
ain has the nts ent . orn and ain . que ,
we lso ire hat the cpd of
is a ent of
rue is ful .
non - que ain and a ent orn in the u . s .
the ity is
the u . s . , the ity hat hey ill oin is und n ity is n
; for a , rly ree mes as ge; for a que ain , the rob - n ! n ! o , ess of the nts ace of rth
we are uch ore ely to ave u . s . - orn nts ing to non - que ins han ign - orn nes .
( the son is hat ign - orn nts ten ate to the u . s .
ady ted ith the se; uch nts lly ave a que ain ous to eir ion .
u . s . - orn nts , on the her and , are uch ore ely to act the ase by ing it rom one cal , and ore ill ear in ion ers . ) 123 ity ion ing rms
we now ish to ibe the hip een a prm del and the ase .
in the ase of bns , the ion was ght - is an ion to the ncy ibu - .
in the ase of rms , the sue is ore tle , as a prm
ard : the bn ' cb
his ult ows ely rom ial ity .
be a oin ery , and let be the ple les in
e be its ard ure
the ion ned by ing ach ple , the prm tly .
hen for any ery , ely the ity red ows us to ate for ing the ery ity .
we can ute the prm es - ate ing the ing ple ion :
h ich nds
fe rts hat
ion 123 . : let , and let be an oin ery .
we ene the ery - ion ian
be a prm ver '
( to be a bn as ows :
it has a ode it lso has a ode / for ery ble ied in nts is a ent of is a ent of
for ery use , the ode
fe and ute has the nts pec - is a ent of is a ent of is the que ple ble
is as ied in
/ the cpd of for ple , fig .
123 ( b ) ows the ery ion bn for the dly sed oin ery we can now use his ian ork to ate the tiv - ity of any ery .
der a ect - oin ery nds the oin ery
ses ) , and ute the ity of ( ain - id ) .
in ity , we ont eed to uct a bn ver all the des in the ure tes ied and eir ors in ' 123
prm ion
for ple , to ate the ity of the . age = 23+ , we uld use the bn in fig .
123 ( b ) ( as it ard
is elf ( as ove ) , and #
we can ate
; it is ent to ude nly the at -
ih ich ex -
, ere #
. age = 23+ ,
the ous two ons wed how we can orm ery ize ion nce we ave a prm hat res the ant cal ons in the ata ion .
his ion ad - ses the ion of how to uct uch a del ati - lly rom the nal ase .
any of the eas in his ion are ple ons of ous ork on the pic : the ork on ing ian rks rom ata ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) and the ent ion of his ing ork to rms ( 123 ) .
in the ion thm , our oal is to nd a prm
the put to the ion thm sts of two rts : a nal ema , hat ies the sic ary in the ain the set of les , the tes ted ith ach of the les , and the ble ign key ins een es; and the ase elf , ich ies the ual les ned in ach ble .
hat est nts the ies in the ata .
in der to pro - ide a mal ion for his ask , we rst eed to ene an ate ion of est .
ven his ion , the thm ill try to nd the del hat zes it .
ere are two rts to our ion lem .
the ter ion lem for a ven ncy ure ure ion lem nds the ncy ure ith the mal ice of ers , ves the mal ore , ect to our ace nts on the del .
123 ing ion
nds est ter set .
to ide a mal ion of del ity , we ake use of sic pts rom ion ory ( 123 ) .
the ity of a
del can be red by the ent to ich it zes the ata .
in her rds , if we had the del , how any its uld be red , ing an mal ing , to ent the ata .
the ore ive the del , the wer its are red to ode
it is ell own hat the mal non ing of a ata set , ven the del , ses a ber of its ich is the ive thm of the ity of the ata ven the del .
in her rds , we ene the ore of a del ing the ing
we can ore ate the del ion ask as hat of ing the del hat has mum log - ood ven the ata .
we ote hat his ion is ent rom ose sed in the tan - ard ons of ing tic els rom ata ( 123 ) .
in the ter ses , we lly ose a ing ion hat des off t to ata ith del ity .
his off ows us to oid ing the ing ata too ely , eby ing our bil - ity to ict een ata .
in his ase , our oal is ery ent : we do not ant to ize to new ata , but nly to ize the rns in the ing ata .
his nce in cus is hat tes our ice of ing ion .
123 ter ion
we gin by ing the ter ion ask for a ven ncy ure .
in her rds , ing ted a de - hat nes the set of nts for ach hat ize it .
the ter ion ask is a key ine in the ure lec - ion tep : to ate the ore for a ure , we ust rst ram - ize it .
in her rds , the est ing del is the ure ose est ion has the est ore .
ute , we ust ll in the ers .
be its nts in
a ven ure in the ata .
ore ely , der ome ute
it is ell - own hat the est ood ion for is the one hat ely hes the ies .
our del ins a ter .
the mum ood lue for his ter is hin the ion of
his ter nts the nal ity ply the ive ncy of
and ach ent of ues
for ach lue of
the ies , or nts , sed in his ion are led suf - ent ics in the cal ing ure .
his ion is ery ple in the ase ere the ute and its nts are in the ame ble .
for ple , to ute the cpd ted ith the ent . der ute in our tb del , we ply ute a unt and oup - by ery on der and hiv , ich ves us the nts for all ble ues of ese two at - tes .
ese nts ely ive us the ent ics in oth the tor and tor of the ire cpd .
his ion res a ear can of the ata .
the ase ere ome of the nts of an ute ear in a ent ble is nly tly ore lex .
all hat we ict ies een les to ose hat ize ign - key ins .
in her rds , we can ave
for a ign key hus , to ute the cpd for ply eed to ute a ign - key oin een hen use the ame ype of unt and oup - by ery ver the ult .
in ich is lso the ary key of
hat nds on
for ple , in our tb del , act . age has the nts con - act . ype and act . ent . age .
to ute the ent ics , we ply oin ent and act on ent . ent - act . ent , and hen oup and unt ely .
we ave ted his sis for the ase ere .
ver , the ion nly on a gle ign ute rly nds to ies on ple ute , lly in ent les .
we ply do all of the ary ign - key ins , ate a gle ult ble ver and all of its nts , and ute the ent ics .
ile his ess ght ear ive at rst nce , it can be ted ery tly .
all hat we are nly ing de - ies via ign - key ins .
ing hat ion her ith our ial ity ion , we now hat ach ple .
hus , the ber of les ill oin ith ely a gle ple in the ing oin is ely the ize of .
the ame rva - ion lds hen has nts in ple les .
ing hat we ave a ood ing ure on eys ( e . g . , a ash dex ) , the ost of ing the oin ons is ore ear in the ize it ins to ibe the ion of the cpd for a oin .
in his ase , we ust ute the oba - ity hat a dom ple .
the ity of the oin ent can end on ues of tes in , e . g . , on the lue of .
in our tb ain , the oin tor een pa - ent and ain nds on orn hin the ent ble and on que hin the ain ble .
to ute the ent tis - , we eed to ute the tal ber
of ses ere the rst is ply
ely , his ion is lso asy .
the ter is
, ich can be ted by ing the two les and hen ing a unt and oup - by ery .
the ost of his ion ( ing an ate dex ure ) is ain ear in the ber of les in 123 ure ion
, and hen the ber hin
and a dom ple
our ond ask is the ure ion ask : ing the pen - ncy ure hat ves the est log - ood ore .
the lem ere is ing the est ncy ure ong the lly any ble nes . 123 his is a ial ion lem , and one ich is own to be np - ard ( 123 ) .
we ore ide an thm hat nds a ood ncy ure ing ple tic es; ite the act hat the mal ncy ure is not eed to be ced , the thm ess rms ery ell in ice .
123 . 123 ing ted
the log - ood ion can be ted in a way hat oth tes the del ion ask and ows its ect to be ore ily ood .
we rst ire the ing sic eni -
der ome int ion
ion 123 . : let the ual ion of
if we ave ncy res is
ver eir ion .
we can ene
and be two ets of tes , and
if we ave ple les , the
ion is tly ore ted , use not all den - ies een tes in ent les are gal .
tes in a gle ble , the ber of ble
the erm ide the ion is the thm of the ive er -
and an ion to it
ent , but ins the ity of ach one .
the ire ion is ply a ted age of his ive ror ver the ion , ere the hts are the ies of the .
it is ely ear hat ual ion is mea - .
if hey are ent , hen the ual ion is ero .
ise , the ual ion is ays ive .
the ger the rre - ion , the ger the ual ion .
are ted in
der a lar ure
our sis in the ous ion ies the mal ice ( in rms of ood ) for pa - be the ion in the ase , as ove .
we can now rmu - ate the log - ood ore in rms of ual ion :
to ote his set of ers
is a ant hat oes not end on the ice of ruc - ure .
hus , the all ore of a ure ses as a sum , ere ach ent is cal to an ute and its nts .
the cal ore nds tly on the ual ion een a ode and its nts in the ure .
hus , our ing ion ers res ere an ute is gly ted ith its
ing the ent to ich .
we use . # "
nts .
we ill use /
123 . 123 del ace
an ant ign ion is the ace of ncy ruc - res hat we low the thm to der .
ral nts are sed on us by the ics of our els .
ian net - rks and rms nly ene a ent ity ion if the ncy ure is lic , i . e . , ere is no ted ath rom an ute ack to elf .
hus , we ict ion to de - ncy res hat are ted lic phs .
ore , we ave ced ain nts on ter - ble ies : a is a ign key and ays the ate ole in the cpd ree .
lly , we ave red hat the ncy ure be ied ong les , as
is lso a ent of
, and if the oin tor ble
is nly wed if
a ond set of nts is ied by nal sid - ons .
a ase tem lly ces a und on the unt of ace sed to ify the cal del .
we ore ace a und on the ize of the els ted by our thm .
in our ase , the ize is lly the ber of ers sed in the pds for the ent tes , lus ome all unt red to ify the ure .
a ond nal ion is the ize of the ate oup - by les ted to ute the pds in the ure .
if ese les get ery rge , ing and ing hem can get ive .
ore , we ten ose to ace a und on the ber of nts per ode .
123 . 123 rch thm
ven a set of gal ate res , and a ing ion hat ows us to ate ent res , we eed nly ide a ure for ing a igh - ing sis in our ace .
the est tic rch thm is edy ill - ing rch , ing dom eps to ape cal ima .
we ain our cur - and ely ove it .
at ach it - ent ate ure
h , we eck hat
ion , we der a set of ple cal ons to hat ure .
for ach ing ate sor it ses our nts , and ect the est one .
we ict ten - ion to ple ons uch as ing or ing an dge , and ing or ing a lit in a cpd ree .
his ess tin - ues til one of the ble sor res .
at his int , the thm can ake ome ber of dom eps , and hen ume the ill - ing ess .
af - ter ome ber of ons of his orm , the thm lts and uts the est ure red ing the ire ess .
h ave a her
ore , ter ing a tep in the rch , ost of the ork rom the ous ion can be sed .
to and his dea , ume hat our ent ure is
to do the rch , we ate a set of ges to , and ect the one hat ves us the est ent .
say hat we ave cho - sen to ate the cal del for ( her its ent set or its cpd ree ) .
the ing ure is ble cal ges to ent of the ore ing to her ute ged .
nce , the nge in ore ing rom the nge to
now , we are ing h .
the key ght is hat the mpo -
h of a ven ure
ble sor res ous ach is to ply ose the ure the est ent in ore , i . e . , hat zes
one ant sue to der is how to ose ong the pos - .
the ost ob - .
ver , his ach is ery ted , as it res the ost of the ion in rms of ing the ize of the ure .
we now ent two hes hat ess his ern .
the rst ach is sed on an ogy een his lem and the ted ack lem : we ave a set of ems , ach ith a lue and a ume , and a ack ith a xed me; our oal is to ect the est lue set of ems hat ts in the nap - ack .
our oal ere is ery lar : ery dge hat we uce nto the del has ome lue in rms of ore and ome ost in rms of ace .
a ard tic for the ack lem is to ily add the tem nto the ack hat has , not the mum lue , but the est lue to ume tio .
in our ase , we can rly ose the dge for ich the ood ent zed by the nal ace ent :
is est . 123 we fer to his hod of ing as age ize nor -
the ond dea is to use a ion to the log - ood ing ion led mdl ( mum ion gth ) .
his ing ion is ted by eas rom ion and ing ory .
it res a del ing not ply the ion of the num - ber of its red to ode the ata ven the del , but lso the ber of its red to ode the del elf .
his ore has
we ave lly red the ive ach ith the two eas ned ove on the sus set bed in sec - ion 123 .
oth ssn and mdl ing ved her log - ood han the ive ach for a xed unt of ace .
in act , ssn and mdl med ost lly for the ire nge of llo - ted ace , and no ear ner was ent .
all ree hes lve the ion of
hen des a key ght for ing the ncy of his com - ion .
as we saw , the ore ses nto a sum , ach of ich is ted nly ith a ode and its nts in the ruc - ure .
hus , if we ify the ent set or the cpd of nly a gle ute , the rms in the ore ing to her tes ain ged ( 123 ) .
hus , to ute the ore ing to a tly ied ure , we eed nly ute the cal ore for the one ute ose ncy del has ged .
his tic has ble nce ees for the nap - ack lem .
ely , in our lem the ues and sts are not rly ive , so ere is no ect ing een the ems and the ame nce nds do not ply .
is the ame in
ber ged .
nly ges to
h , and we can ply use hat num -
eed to be re - ted ter
tal lts
in his ion , we ent tal lts for a ety of eal - rld ata , ing : a sus set ( 123 ) ; a set of the ase of ial ata sed in the 123 ean kdd cup ( 123 ) ; and a ase of sis nts in san sco ( 123 ) .
we gin by ing the acy of our ods on ect ies ver a gle ion .
we hen der ore lex , ect - oin ies ver ral ons .
lly , we uss the ing ime for ion and ion for our els .
ect ies .
we ted acy for cts ver a gle ion on a set rom sus ase bed ove ( ap - ely 23k les ) .
we med two ets of nts .
in the rst set of nts , we red our ach to an ing ity ion que nal his - ams .
nal ams are lly sed to sti - ate the int ver ome all set of tes hat ate in the ery .
to low a air son , we ied our ach ( and ers ) in the ame ing .
we ted ets of two , ree , and our tes of the sus set , and ted the ery ize for the set of all ity ect ies ver ese tes .
we red the nce of our hms .
avi is a ple ion que hat mes ute lue pen - nce : for ach ute a one nal ram is ain - ned .
in his ain , the ain ize of ach ute is all , so it is ble to ain a ket for ach lue .
his ech - que is ive of ues sed in ing ost - sed ery ers uch as tem - r .
ist lds a men - nal ram ver the tes , ing the v - mal ( v , a ) his - ram ion of ala et al .
( 123 ) . 123 his que con - cts ets hat ize the nce in rea ( ncy lue ) hin ach ket .
ala et al .
und his hod for ing ams to be one of the ost ful in nts ver his ain .
ple cts a dom ple of the ta - ble and tes the ult ize of a ery rom the ple .
prm ses our hod for ery ize ion .
ess ted ise , prm ses ree pds and the ssn ing hod .
ror of the ery ize ate :
we are the ent ods ing the ted ive is the ual ize of our is our ate , hen the ted ive ror is .
for ach ent , we ted the av - age ted ror ver all ble ons for the ect ues of the ry; hus ach ent is lly the age ver ral and ies .
we ted the acy of ese ods as we ied the ace ted to ach hod ( ith the ion of avi , ere
we uld ike to ank shy ala for ing his ode ail - ble to us for our ons .
123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
ure 123 : ive ror vs .
age ize for a ery ite ver the sus set .
( a ) two ute ery ( age and ome ) .
the ive ror for avi is 123
( b ) ree ute ery ( age , eek and ome ) .
the ive ror for avi is 123
( c ) our ute ery ( age , ion , eek and ome ) .
the ive ror for avi is 123 .
ure 123 : ive ror vs .
age ize for a ery ver the sus set , ith els ted ver 123 tes .
( a ) ree ute ery ( ass , ion , and tus ) ( b ) our ute ery ( ome , try , age and ype ) .
( c ) a ter lot ing the ror on ual ies for a ree ute ery ( ome , try , age ) for ple and prm ( ing 23k tes of age ) .
in the ter lot , ach int nts a ery , ere the ate is the ive ror ing ple and the ate is the ive ror ing prm .
hus , nts ove the nal ine ond to ies on ich ple rms prm and nts low the nal ine ond to ies on ich prm rms ter .
the del ize is xed ) .
123 ows lts on sus for ree ery tes : ver two , ree , and our tes .
ist and ple , and all ods tly orm avi .
ote hat a bn ith ree pds ver two tes is ply a tly dif - ent ion of a lti - nal ram .
hus , it is ing hat our ach ill tes ist , ven in his ase .
as the wer of the ons is lly ent ere , the ess of rms in his ing is due to the ent ing ion for ing ent els , and the ted
in the ond set of nts , we der a ore eng - ing ing , ere a gle del is ilt for the ire ble , and hen sed to ate any ect ery ver hat ble .
in his ase , ist is no ger ble , so we red the acy of prm to ple , and lso red to rms ith ble pds .
we ilt a prm ( bn ) for the ire set of tes in the ble , and hen ied ets of ree and our tes .
rly , for ple , the les ded all 123 tes .
we ted ese hes on the sus set ith 123 at - tes .
the lts for two ent ery tes are own in fig .
123 ( a ) and ( b ) .
ugh for ery all age ize , ple ves wer ors , rms ith ree pds tes as the tor - age ize ses .
ote lso hat ree pds tly per - orm ble pds .
the son is hat ble pds rce us to lit all ins in the cpd ver a ent is ded , ing ace on ing ons hat ght not be ary .
123 ( c ) ows the
nce on a ird ery ite in ore ail .
the ter lot res nce of ple and prm for a xed age ize ( 23k tes ) .
ere we see hat prm rms ple on the ity of the ies .
( the ike in the lot at ple ror 23% nds to the rge set of ery lts ted to be
of ize n by ple . ) ect - oin ies .
we ate the acy of ion for ect - oin ies on two eal - rld ets .
our ial ase ( fin ) has ree les : unt ( 23k les ) , ion ( 23k les ) and ict ( 123 les ) ; ion ers ugh a ign key to unt and unt ers to ict .
the ber - sis ase ( tb ) lso has ree les : ent ( 23k les ) , act ( 23k les ) and ain ( 23k les ) ; act ers ugh a ign key to ent and ent ers to ain .
oth ses sfy the ial ity ion .
we red the ing ues .
ple cts a dom ple of the oin of all ree les ong the ign eys and tes the ult ize of a ery rom the ple .
+uj is a ion of the prm hat oes not low any nts for the oin tor ble and cts the nts of her tes to be in the ame ion .
his is ent to a del ith a bn for ach ion her ith the orm oin ion .
prm ses ted rms .
oth prm and +uj ere ted ing ree - pds and ssn ing .
we ted all ree hes on a set of ies hat ned all
ure 123 : ( a ) ive ror vs .
age ize for a ect - oin ery ver ree les in the tb ain ith ion on 123 tes .
( b ) ive ror for ree ery ets on tb ( c ) ive ror for ree ery ets on fin
ree les ( ugh all ree can lso be sed for a ery ver any set of the les ) .
the ies ect one or two tes rom ach ble .
for ach ery ite , we ged the ror ver all ble ons of the ted les .
ote hat all ree hes ere run so as to uct ral els ver all of the tes of the les , and not in a way hat was cic to the ery ite .
123 ( a ) res the acy of the ree ods for ari - ous age zes on a ree ute ery in the tb ain .
the aph ows oth +uj and prm ing ple for ost age zes .
123 ( b ) res the acy of the ree ods for ral ent ery tes on tb , ing ach hod 23k tes of age .
123 ( c ) res the acy of the ree ods for ral ent ery tes on fin , low - ing 23k tes of age for ach .
ese ams how hat prm ays rms +uj and ple .
ing ime .
lly , we ine the ing ime for con - ion and ion for our els .
ese nts ere med on a 123 ion ing 123 ith 3mb of nal ory .
we rst der the ime red by the ine ion ase , own in fig .
as we can see , the ion ime ies ith the unt of age ted for the del : our rch thm rts ith est ble del in its rch ace ( all tes ent of ach her ) , so hat ore rch is red to uct the ore lex els hat ake van - age of the nal ace .
ote hat ble pds are ers of ude ier to uct han ree ds; ver , as we dis - sed , hey are lso lly ess ate .
the ing ime for ion lso ies ith the unt of ata in the ase .
123 ( b ) ows ion ime sus set ize for ree pds and ble pds for xed del age ize ( 23k tes ) .
ote hat , for ble pds , ing ime ows rly ith the ata ize .
for ree pds , ing ime has igh nce and is ost ent of ata ize , nce the ing ime is ted by the rch for the ree cpd ure nce ent ics are ted .
the ine ion ase is , of rse , ore ime - cal han ion , nce it is ten sed in the ner oop of ery pti - ers .
the ing ime of our ion que ies hly ith the age ize of the del , nce els hat ire a lot of ace are lly hly ted rks ich ire hat ger nce ime .
the nts in fig .
123 ( c ) il - ate the nce .
the ion ime for oth ods is ite ble .
the ion ime for ree pds is tly
her , but his is ing an thm hat oes not lly oit the ree - re; we ect hat an thm hat is zed for ree pds uld orm on a par ith the ble ion mes .
in his per , we ave ted a vel ach for ing ery ity ing tic cal els ian rks and eir nal ion .
our ach zes rob - tic cal els , ich oit nal nce ons een the ent tes in the ble to low a act ion of the int ion of the ase at - ute ues .
we ave ted our thm on ral eal - rld ses in a ety of ins cal , ial , and ial .
the ess of our ach on all of ese ets tes hat the ype of ure ted by our ods is ery mon , and hat our ach is a ble ion for any eal - rld ses .
our ach has ral ant ges .
to our owl - dge , it is que in its ity to dle ect and oin era - ors in a gle ied ork , eby ing tes for lex ies ing ral ect and oin ons .
sec - ond , our ach nts the ity ems sso - ted ith lti - nal ams .
lti - nal his - ams , as the ion of the ble ows , her row xpo - lly or ome ess and ess ate .
our ach sti - tes the igh - nal int ion ing a set of wer - nal nal ons , ach of ich is ite ccu - ate .
as we saw , we can put ese nal ons her to get a ood ion to the ire int ion .
hus , our del is not ted to ing ies ver a all set of ned tes hat pen to ear in a ram to - er; it can be sed to wer ies ver an ary set of tes in the ase .
ere are ral ant ics hat we ave not lly ad - sed in his per .
one is the tal nce of the prm as the ase ges .
it is ard to end our ach to apt the ers of the prm ver ime , ing the ure xed .
to apt the ure , we can ply a ant of the ach of ( 123 ) .
we can lso eep ack of the del ore , ing the ure if the ore ses lly .
her ant pic hat we ave not sed is ins ver non - key tes .
in our ion and nts , our ies use nly ign key ins .
ile his ory of ies nds to net ost rom the tic els hat we ose , our ods are ore ral .
we can ute tes for ies hat oin non - key tes by ing ver the ble ues of the ned tes , and our tes are ely to be ore
123 123 123 123
ure 123 : ( a ) the ion ime for a prm for sus ing ree and ble pds as a ion of del age ace .
( b ) the ion ime for a prm for sus ing ree and ble pds as a ion of ata ize .
( c ) the ing ime for ery ize ion as a ion of del ize .
ate han ods hat do not del any of the ies een les .
ver an cal ion is red to ate our ods on his ory of ies .
ere are any ing ons to our ach , ich we end to ate in ure ork .
rst , we ant to end our ues to dle uch ger es; we eve hat an ial gle ass ver the ata can be sed to ome in on a uch ler set of ate els , the ent ics for ich can hen be ted ery tly in tch ode .
ore gly , ere are ous ons of our ues to the ask of ate ery ing , oth for lap ies and for ral ase ies ( ven ies ing ins ) .
nts .
we uld ike to ank ris ten and shy ala for eir ful ack .
his ork was ted onr act 123 - 123 - c - 123 der pas pkb ram , and by the ity of the oan ion and the ell oun -
