as th av an im of re da as th fr su - ma on a so ne we , it be in im - po to ha go mo fo su da .
th ki of la st th ha be co fo us in pr li in su ne ha be re li .
in pa , th ma le co ha fo on la cl mo , ad ba no me to jo in ho ma la - te cl th ar wh le wh en be to ea cl .
we pu a si ap wi a ri ki of la va fe a ba no ap to si in th nu of fe at th sa ti we le wh en ha ea fe .
ou mo co th in fe wi kn co in or to pe li pr .
we de th th gr ex of th ap al us to im - pr pe on th da .
st an of so ne an ot re da ha be an ac ar of re fo ov se ye an is be an in im pr as th sc an av of so ne da in ( 12 ) .
in th pr , we ob th in be a se of en an we wi to ex in re th ar us fo ma pr ab th en an th re .
on ba ch is li pr , wh we ob th re ( or li ) be so pa of en in a ne ( or gr ) an we tr to pr un li .
fo ex , in a so ne , we mi on kn so su of pe ar fr an so ar no , an se to pr wh ot pe ar li to ge al .
ou go is to im th ex an pe of ge mo ba on ex la st re th pr of in en fr th ob da , so we wi fo on th ki of mo .
th ru ou ap li th po p mo th us gl qu of th gr , su as ho ma ed or tr ar pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
of th ap th do li pr ba on at of th in en , th ca la be cl in cl - ba an fe - ba ap .
th ar ma mo th ca be pl un th ap , so we wi fo on th mo th ar mo co to ou ap .
mo ge mo us a cl - ba re ar ba on th st bl , in in ( 12 ) an fu de in ( 12 ) .
in th mo ba fo of th mo , we as th ar a ni nu of cl th en ca be to an th th cl en de th st of th gr , wi th pr of a li ex be tw en de on on th cl of th en .
in ge , th cl ar un , an in re to as en to cl an in th cl in .
on of th im is th ar in wo wi th mo is de ho ma la cl th ar fo a gi pr .
th in re mo ( ir ) ( 12 ) us me fr no ba st to ta th pr , al th nu of cl to be de at in ti .
th in hi re mo ( 12 ) fu el on th mo an th mi me st bl ( mm ) ( 12 ) ex it to al en to ha mi me .
al th cl - ba mo sh a ba li in th ki of re st th na - ra ca .
fo ex , in a so ne , we mi nd a cl wh co ma hi sc at an an wh co ma hi sc mu .
we mi be th tw cl wi be si , bu wi a cl - ba mo , ou op ar to ei me th cl or du ou kn ab co as of th .
in a si ve , wi a li am of da , it mi be re to co th in a si cl ma hi sc st - de , bu wi mo da we wo wa to sp th gr in at an mu .
fo ev ne at li th th we ad , th nu of cl wo po do , qu le to an ov of cl .
in ad , if so is bo an at an a mu , we wo ei ha to ad an cl fo th or us a mi me mo , wh wo sa th th mo a st is an at , th le he is a mu .
an al ap th ad th pr is to us fe to de th en .
th co be a se fe fo hi sc st , ma , at , an mu an th pr or ab of ea of th fe is wh de ea pe an de th re .
on cl of la - fe mo fo so ne ha be de by ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) , wh pr re - va ve as la re of th en in th ne wh de on th mo , ei th di , in pr , or we co of th ve co to tw en af th li of th be a li be th .
ho , ex ou hi sc st ex , we mi ho th in of ha ar re - va fe ( wh ar st us fo vi ) , we wo in bi fe wh ea fe co co to an at li ma or at .
co ou ea ex , if we ha a li am of da , we mi no pi up on a fe li at .
ho , as we ob mo in , th co em as a cl fe .
in of do th nu of cl in ou mo , we si ad an ad fe .
de th nu of fe wi th be of ex im .
in th pa , we pr th no la fe re mo , a ba no - me mo in wh ea en ha bi - va la fe th in it re .
in ad , th re de on a se of kn co .
th mo al us to si in ho ma la fe th ar wh at th sa ti in wh fe ea en ha an ho th fe in th ob .
th mo is st mo ex th th st bl .
in se 12 , we de a si ve of ou mo an th th fu mo .
in se 12 , we di ho to pe in .
in se 12 , we il th pr of ou mo us sy da an th sh th th gr ex of th la fe re re in im li pr on th re da .
fi , we co in se 12
12 th no la fe re mo
as we ob th di re li be a se of n en .
le y be th n n bi ma th co th li .
th is , le yi y ( i , j ) = 12 if we ob a li fr en i to en j in th re an yi = 12 if we ob th th is no a li .
un li ar le un .
ou go wi be to le a mo fr th ob li su th we ca pr th va of th un en .
12 ba mo
in ou ba mo , ea en is de by a se of bi fe .
we ar no gi th fe a pr an wi at to in th .
we as th th pr of ha a li fr on en to an is en de by th co ef of al pa fe if th ar k fe , th le z be th n k bi ma wh ea ro co to an en an ea co co to a fe su th zi z ( i , k ) = 12 if th it en ha fe k an zi = 12 ot .
an le zi de th fe ve co to en i .
le w be a k k re - va we ma wh wk w ( k , k1 ) is th we th af th pr of th be a li fr en i to en j if bo en i ha fe k an en j ha fe k1
we as th li ar in co on z an w , an th on th fe of en i an j in th pr of a li be th en .
th de th li
pr ( y |z , w ) =
pr ( yi , zj , w )
wh th pr ra ov al pa of en .
gi th fe ma z an we ma w , th pr th th is a li fr en i to en j is
pr ( yi = 12 , w ) =
wh ( ) is a fu th tr va on ( , ) to ( 12 , 12 ) su as th si fu 12 ( x ) or th pr fu ( x ) = ( x ) .
an im as of th mo is th al - ze co of z do no af th li .
we wi ta ad of th in se 12 .
th mo is ve ex .
wi a si fe pe en , it is eq to a st bl - mo .
ho , si en ca ha mo th a si fe , th mo is mo ex .
in th hi sc st ex , ea fe ca co to an at li ma , mu , an at .
if we we lo at th re fr of ( no ne sy ! ) , th th we at th ( at , mu ) en of w wo co to th we th an at wo be a fr of a mu .
a po we wo co to an in pr , a ne we a de pr , an a ze we wo in th th is no co be th tw fe an th ob re .
th mo po co fe pe ha , th mo li th ar to be fr .
an ad of th re is th if ou da co ob of st in tw di lo , we co ha a ge fe fo th di lo .
wh ot fe su as at or mu mi in th on pe co be a fr of an , th ge fe co ha ex ne we so th pe wh li fa fr ea ot ar le li to be fr .
ho , th pa fo th no - ge fe wo st be ti fo al pe , al us to ma st in - fe ab ho th in th re .
cl - ba mo wo ne an ab of cl to ca th ef an wo no ha th sa ki of pa sh .
gi th fu se of ob y , we wi to in th po di of th fe ma z an th we w .
we do th us ba th , p ( z , w| ) p ( y |z , w ) p ( z ) p ( w ) , wh we ha pl an in pr on z an w .
wi an pr kn ab th fe or th we , a na pr fo w in pl an in n ( 12 , 12 w ) pr on ea wi .
ho , pl a pr on z is mo ch .
if we kn ho ma fe th we , we co pl an ar pa pr on z .
ho , we wi to ha a ex pr th al us to si in th nu of fe at th sa ti we in al th en in z .
th in bu pr is su a pr .
12 th in bu pr an th ba ge mo
as me in th pr se , an fe wh ar al - ze do no af th li .
th me th ev if we ad an in nu of al - ze fe , th li wo re th sa .
th in bu pr ( ib ) ( 12 ) is a pr on in bi ma su th wi pr on , a fe ma dr fr it fo a ni nu of en wi on ha a ni nu of no - ze fe .
mo , an fe ma , no ma ho ma no - ze fe
it co , ha po pr un th ib pr .
it is th a us no pr to pl on ou la fe ma z .
th ge pr to sa ma fr th ib ca be de th a cu me th ga th ib it na .
in th me , ea ro of z co to a di at an in bu an ea co co to a di at th in lo bu .
if a cu ta a pa di , th th en th co to th cu ro an th di co is a on an th en is ze ot .
th cu me de ho pe ch th di .
in th ib , th rs cu ch a po ( ) nu of di to sa , wh is a pa of th ib .
th it cu tr ea pr sa di wi pr pr to th nu of pe th ha al tr th di an th sa a po ( / i ) nu of ne di .
th pr is ex , wh me th th or in wh th cu en th re do no af th co of th di th pe tr ( up to pe of th di as de in ( 12 ) ) .
th in le to a st gi sa to do po in th we de in se 12
us an ib pr on z , ou ba ge la fe re mo is :
wk n ( 12 , 12
yi ( ci : 12 ) zi z>
fo al k , k1 fo wh fe k an k1 ar no - ze fo ea ob .
12 fu no la fe re mo
we ha de th ba no la fe re mo .
we no co it wi id fr th so ne co to ge ou fu mo .
fi , we no th th ar ma in of lo mo us in st ne an th ma us of co in li pr ( 12 ) .
he we wi fo on a su of id di in ( 12 ) .
le xi be a ve th in th re yi , le xp , i be a ve of kn at of en i wh it is th pa of a li , an le xc , i be a ve of kn at of en i wh it is a ch of a li .
fo ex , in se 12 , wh y re re am co , xi is a sc re th ge si be co ( xi = ex ( d ( i , j ) ) ) si th co in th re an xp , i = xc , i is a se of kn fe as wi ea co ( xp , i an xc , i wo be di if we ha co sp to ea co ro ) .
we th le c be a no di sc an , p , c , a , an b be no di ve in ou fu mo in wh
pr ( yi = 12 , w , x , , a , b , c ) =
xi + (
p xp , i + ai ) + (
c xc , j + bj ) + c
if we do no ha in ab on or al of x , xp , an xc , we dr th co te ( s ) .
in th mo , c is a gl of th af th de li of a re an ai an bj ar en an ro sp of .
so fa , we ha on co th ca of ob a si re .
it is no un to ob mu re fo th sa se of en .
fo ex , in ad to th fr of re , we mi al ob th ad an co wi re .
we st be th ea en ha a si se of fe th de al it re , bu th fe wi no af ea re in th sa wa .
if we ar gi m re , la th y 12 , y 12 , .
we wi us th sa fe fo ea re , bu we wi us an in we ma w i fo ea re y i .
in ad , co mi be re sp or co ac al re .
re , th wi in in di wa in ea re .
ou fu mo is no
pr ( y 12 , .
, y m| , ( w i , x i , i , ai , bi , ci ) m
pr ( y i| , w i , x i , i , ai , bi , ci ) .
12 va of th no la fe re mo
th mo th we ha de is fo di gr in wh th ma y i is no as to be sy .
fo un gr , we wo li to de a sy mo .
th is ea to do by re w i to be sy .
if we fu be th th fe we le sh no in , we ca as th w i is di .
12 re no la fe mo
th ar tw mo re to ou no la fe re mo th bo us th ib as a pr on bi la fe ma .
th mo cl re mo is th bi ma fa ( bm ) mo of ( 12 ) .
th bm is a ge mo wi se co va , th mo re of wh wa us to pr un en of bi ma fo im re an co lt .
if y is th ob pa of a bi ma , th in th va , we as th y |u , v , w ( u w v > ) wh ( ) is th lo fu , u an v ar in bi ma dr fr th ib , an th en in w ar in dr fr a no di .
if y is an n n ma wh we as th ro an co ha th sa fe ( i . e . , u = v ) , th th sp ca of th mo is eq to ou ba ( co - fr ) mo .
wh ( 12 ) we in in a mo ge fo th is ap to ot ta , we ha sp an ex th mo fo th ta of li pr .
th ot re mo is th ad mo ( 12 ) .
th mo as we ar gi a sy ma of no si y an th y = zw z> + wh z is dr fr th ib , w is a di ma wi en in dr fr a ga di , an is in ga no .
th mo do no al fo ar fe in no do it al fo ne fe
ex in in ou no la fe re mo is in ( 12 ) .
ho , th ib pr le it ni to ap in vi ma ch mo ca ( 12 ) .
we rs de in in th si re , ba mo , la ex it to th fu mo .
in ou ba mo , we mu do po in on z an w .
si wi pr on , an sa of z wi ha a ni nu of no - ze en , we ca st ju th no - ze co of ea sa of th in bi ma z .
si we do no ha a co pr on w , we mu al sa th co en of w .
ou sa is as fo :
gi w , re z we do th by re ea ro zi in su .
wh sa en in th it ro , we us th fa th th ib is ex to as th th it cu in th ib wa th la on to en th bu .
th , wh re zi fo no - ze co k , if mk is th nu of no - ze en in co k ex ro i , th pr ( zi = 12 , w , y ) mk pr ( y |z = 12 , zi , w ) .
we mu al sa zi fo ea of th in ma al - ze co to ad fe to th re .
he , we us th fa th in th ib , th pr di on th nu of ne fe fo th la cu is po ( / n ) .
as de in ( 12 ) , we mu th we th by th li te fo ha th ma ne fe , co th fo 12 , 12 , .
. km ne fe fo so ma nu of ne fe km an sa th nu of ne fe fr th no di .
th ma di ar be we ha no sa th va of w fo th al - ze co an we do no ha a co pr on w , so we ca co th li te ex .
we ca ad on of th no - co sa ap fr th di pr ( 12 ) to th ta or us th su in ( 12 ) to in a me - ha st to pr an ei ac or re so nu of ne co an th co we .
we ch to us a st mo ca ap of th li .
on th nu of ne fe is sa , we mu sa th ne va in w as de be .
gi z , re w we se re ea of th we in w th co to no - ze fe an dr al we th co to al - ze fe .
si we do no ha a co pr on w , we ca di sa w fr it po .
if ( ) is th pr , we ad th au sa tr fr ( 12 ) to ha a gi sa fo th en of w .
if ( ) is th lo fu , no su tr ex an we re to us a me - ha st fo ea we in wh we pr a ne we fr a no di ce ar th ol on .
hy we ca al pl co pr on th hy an w an pe - fo po in on th .
we us th ap fr ( 12 ) fo sa of .
fi 12 : fe an co ob fo sy da .
in ( a ) , we sh fe th co be ex by a la - cl mo th th pr th ob ma in ( b ) .
wh in on va , bl in ze va , an gr in he ou va .
in ( c ) , we sh th fe ma of ou ot sy da al wi th co ob in ( d ) .
( e ) sh th fe ma of a ra ch sa fr ou gi sa .
ea i as ab .
ho , wh we re z , we mu co
in th ca of mu re , we ca sa wi gi z in fo
pr ( zi = 12 , ( w , y ) m
pr ( y i| = 12 , zi , w i ) .
in th fu mo , we mu al up ( i , i
by co on th , th up eq fo z an w i ta th sa fo , bu wi eq ( 12 ) us fo th c , ai , bi , ci ) ar li .
wh we co on z an w i , th po up fo ( i , i in an ca be de fr th up in ( 12 ) .
c , ai , bi , ci ) m
im de de th ea of wr do th sa , sa fo th ib of mi sl du to th ex la st sp fu of lo op .
ev if we li z to ha k co , th ar 12 k po fe ma .
in an ef to ex th sp be , we ca au th gi sa fo z by in sp - me st mo as de in ( 12 ) as we as pe an or te to sm ou th li .
ho , we fo th th mo si im ca fr us a go in .
a ke in th wa me in se 12 is th th st bl is a sp ca of ou mo in wh ea en on ha a si fe .
st bl ha be sh to pe we fo st ne an , so th se li a re wa to in th fe ma .
in th re se , we co th pe of a ra in to on in wh z is in wi a ma le by th in re mo ( ir ) .
to ge ou in po , we ra th gi sa fo th ir fo on 12 it an us th re cl as to se z .
we rs qu an th st an we of ou mo on sy da , es - li wh we ca an ca ex fr it .
we th co ou mo ag tw cl - ba ge mo , th in re mo ( ir ) ( 12 ) an th mi me st bl ( mm ) ( 12 ) , on tw da fr th or ir pa an a ni co da , es th ou mo do be th th be of th mo on th da .
12 sy da
we rs fo on th qu pe of ou mo .
we ap th ba mo to tw ve si sy da ge fr kn fe .
th da we si en th th ba mo co at 12 ac on he - ou da , bu we di en to ad th qu ch of th la fe in .
in on da , th fe we th cl - ba fe se in fi 12 ( a ) an in th ot , we us th fe in fi 12 ( c ) .
th ob de fr th fe ca be se in fi 12 ( b ) an fi 12 ( d ) , re .
on bo da , we in z an w ra .
wi th ve si , cl - ba mo , 12 of th sa fe ma we id to th ge fe ma wi an 12 di by a si bi .
ho , on th ot da , on 12 of th sa we at mo a si bi di th th tr ma .
it is no th ca th th ot 12 of th sa we ba sa , th .
a ra ch sa of z is sh in fi 12 ( e ) .
th th ma is di fr th tr ge fe , wi th ap we ma it pr ju as we as th tr fe ma .
th te sh th wh ou la fe ap is ab to le fe th ex th da we , du to su in be se of fe an we , th fe th wi no in ge co to in fe .
ho , we ca ex th in fe to do a go jo ex th da .
th al in th th ar ma lo op in th fe sp , fu mo th ne fo go in .
12 mu - re da
in th or ir pa , th ir wa ap to se da ( 12 ) .
th in a da co 12 re of 12 co ( su as ex to an pr ) al wi 12 gi fe of th co ( 12 ) an a da co 12 ki re of 12 pe in th al tr in ce au ( 12 ) .
se ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) fo mo de on th da .
ou go in ap th la fe re mo to th da wa to de th ef of ou al wh co to tw es cl - ba al , th ir an th mm , an to de th ef of ou fu al .
fo th al da , we ha no kn co .
fo th co da , xp = xc wa th se of kn fe of th co an x wa th co di si ma de in se 12 .
as me in th sy da se , th in fe do no ne ha an in - pr me , so we re ou to a qu co .
fo ea da , we he ou 12 of th da du tr an we re th au , th ar un th ro ( re op - at ch ) cu , fo th he - ou da ( 12 ) .
we re re fo in a gl se of fe fo al re as de in se 12 wh we re to as gl as we as re wh a di se of fe is in le fo ea re an th th au of al re ar av to , wh we re to as si .
in ad , we tr in ou sa fo th la fe re mo wi ei a ra fe ma ( lf ra ) or cl - ba fe fr th ir ( lf w / ir ) .
we ra ou sa fo 12 it fo ea co us a lo sq fu ( th re us th pr ar si ) , th ou th rs 12 sa as bu - in .
ea me wa gi ve ra re .
ta 12 : au on th co an ki da .
bo id th be pe .
lf w / ir 12 12
co gl al si al gl
re of th te ar in ta 12
as ca be se , th lf wi cl - ba in ou - pe bo th ir an mm .
on th in re ( si ) , th lf wi ra in al do we , be th ir in on bo da .
ho , th ra in do po at in th gl fe du to th co of fe an th we fo ea of th re .
th hi th im of pr in .
to de - st th th co ar he , bu th ev wi th , ou mo do we , we ra th gl lf wi cl - ba in wi co on th co da an th au dr to 12 12 , wh is st th be pe .
on th co da , th la fe mo in on av 12 - 12 fe wh se wi th ir an 12 - 12 wi a ra in .
on th ki da , it in 12 - 12 fe wh se wi th ir an 12 - 12 wh se ra .
( a ) tr re
( b ) fe pr
( c ) ir pr
( d ) mm pr
fi 12 : pr fo al al on th ni co da .
in ( a ) , a wh en me tw pe wr a pa to .
in ( b - d ) , th li an en , th mo li th al pr th co pe wo in .
12 pr ni co
as ou na ex , hi th ex of th la fe re mo , we us th co da fr th ni da co in ( 12 ) .
th da co a li of al pa an au fr ni 12 - 12
we to th 12 au wh ha pu wi th mo ot pe an lo at th co in .
th sy co gr ca be se in fi 12 ( a ) .
we ag le mo fo th la fe re mo , th ir an th mm tr on 12 of th da an us th re 12 as a te se .
fo th la fe mo , si th co re is sy , we le a fu , sy we ma w as de in se 12 .
we di no us an co .
a vi of th pr fo ea of th al ca be se in fi 12 ( b - d ) .
fi 12 re dr ho th di in ex .
st bl ar re to gr au in cl , an as th al me of cl in si .
fo vi , we ha or th au by th gr th ir fo .
th gr ca cl be se in fi 12 ( c ) .
th mm , by al pa me is no as re .
ho , on th da , th ir ou it .
th la fe re mo is th mo ex of th mo an is ab to mu mo fa re th co ne .
th la fe re mo al qu ou th ir an mm .
we ag ra ou sa fo 12 sa in wi ei a ra fe ma or a cl - ba fe ma fr th ir an re th au on th he - ou da .
us ve re fo ea me , th lf w / ir pe be wi an au of 12 , th lf ra wa ne wi 12 an mu lo we th ir at 12 an th mm at 12 ( al at mo 12 ) .
on av , th la fe re mo in 12 - 12 fe wh in wi th ir an 12 - 12 fe wh in ra .
we ha in th no la fe re mo , an ex no mo fo in la bi fe in re en .
th mo co ap fr th st ne an co , wh ha em fe - ba me fo an ne da , wi id fr ba no in or to si in th nu of la bi fe at th sa ti we in th fe of ea en an ho th fe in .
ex cl - ba ap in la st th is a sp ca of wh ca be in by th mo .
as a co , ou mo is st mo ex th th ap , an ca us th so pr by th ap fo in .
we sh em th th no la fe mo pe we at li pr on se di da , in da th we or us to ar fo cl - ba ap .
th su of th mo ca be tr to it ri re , wh ma it ab to ca su pa of in mu be th cl - ba mo .
ac kt wa su by th u . s .
de of en co de - ac - 12 th la li na la .
tl wa su by gr nu fa - 12 - 12 - 12 fr th ai fo of of sc re .
