hu co re on a un ta fo ex ge kn fr a fe sp ex .
co ho a ch mi rs gr th me of a co wo , su as ho .
gi se ex of ho la pr by he pa , sh is li to ma an in le th go fa be th da ob .
sh co no ju wh an ne en is a ho or no , an sh wo be mo co , ex fo th oc do , de or ca .
th ab to ge fr sp da is cr no on in le wo me , bu in le ab th pr of ob , ca re , so ru , an ma ot do of kn .
th ar de re re th se to un hu in le an re in co te ( se al co fo ed by ch , te an yu in th is ) .
th go is to bu br ap , qu pr mo th ap op in na en , an th ex wh hu ge wo th wa it do an ho it ca su gi su sp da ( 12 , 12 ) .
ou fo is th ( 12 ) , ch th fu ca of hu in ra th sp ps pr th im
mo pr ac of in ge re on of tw ap .
th rs fo
co au : te , j .
( jb . ed ) .
on re do - ge , kn - in st me of in , ba on si , as , co or ot st me ( 12 , 12 12 ) .
th ap ha le to su ma mo of hu ge in la ta , bu fa to ac fo ma im ph of le an re in co , re - wo do , su as in bi , in ph or in ps .
th se ap ai to ca mo of th ri of hu in , by ap to so do - sp kn re , or in th ( 12 ) .
an in th ma be th of as a sy of re co , to wi a se of ca la , st co , or ot ex pr , th gu in in in a pa do .
ho , th - ba ap to in ha be no di to fo , pa in te th ma qu pr ab be or ca be un in te of ra
we wi ar fo an al ap , wh st kn an st in co ra th co , al us to bu on th in of bo tr .
we ca in as a fo of ba st in ov st pr mo of th wo .
th mo ca be se as pr in th ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) or sc ( 12 , 12 ) , ca th kn ab a do th en in ge fr sp da .
th ap ha on be po in re ye , as ad in ar in ( 12 ) an st ( 12 ) ha pr es to fo fo in th an th - ba st in is bi , as th ba co mo ha le to ne ma - le al wi mo po an mo hu - li ca ( 12 , 12 ) .
th - ba ba mo th - ba ba mo of in fo on th im qu : wh is th co of pr th , ho ar th us to su ra le , an ho ca th th be le ? th le ev hy h ab so as of th wo th me of a wo , th ex of a pr or ca , or th pr of a hi ca gi ob da x an su to th co of a
ww . sc . co 12 - 12 / $ - se fr ma q 12 el lt .
al ri re .
do : 12 / j . ti . 12 . 12
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
ba th t .
hy ar sc by co po pr vi ba ru :
ph t z
h1 px tp
th li p ( xj , t ) me ho we ea hy pr th da , an th pr pr p ( hj ) ex th pl of th hy gi th le ba kn .
po pr - it p ( hj , t ) ar pr to th pr of th tw te , re th le de of be in ea hy gi bo th co of th ba th t an th ob da x ( se th te in to th sp is by gr an yu fo fu ba : su ma on ) ad th ba fr is ju th st po fo ou co mo .
th ch co in sp hy sp an pr di th su ba in fo a gi ta an do .
in th - ba ba mo , th do th pl th cr ro .
mo fo , th do th t ge a sp ht of ca hy , su as al po me fo a wo , al wi th pr p ( hj ) an li p ( xj , t ) .
pr pr an li ar th no si st re of th le pr ob , as in so ba an of pe an mo co ( 12 , 12 ) , or pr ba an of in re ( 12 ) .
ne ar th as to sh a si un st ac al do , as in sh pi ba an of ge ( 12 ) .
ra , th ar pr of ab sy of kn th go su be th le di ex of th wo , an ca ta qu di fo in di do .
we wi di at le tw di le of kn in a th ( fi 12 ) .
al in th ma we be mu ri th th pi su , we fo on th mi as of th ne to su in ge .
th ba le of a th is a st pr mo th de a pr di ov po ob en , pr , va , ev .
th mo ty bu on so ki of gr st ca re be ob , su as a ta hi or a ca ne , to wi a se of nu pa .
th gr st de qu as of th pr mo th nu - ca pa de mo ne - gr qu de .
at a hi le of kn ar ab pr th ge th cl of st mo a le ma co , su as th sp th a gi do is or ta or ca .
in at al le of th th hi ( fi 12 ) us th to in un as of th da , le st mo gi th ab do pr of a th , an le th ab do pr th ca be ca ou in a un an tr wa wi hi ba mo ( 12 ) .
p ( pr |
ab do pr
p ( st | pr )
st pr mo
p ( da | st )
tr in co sc
fi 12
a hi ba fr fo th - ba in .
th le ob da ab th wo ( e . g .
ex of ob th a wo re to ) an mu pr ot un da ( e . g .
wh ot ob th wo ca re to ) .
th le in th ge hy th ca ex th ob da an th su th de pr .
th th re kn on at le tw le of ab : a st pr mo ge ex ab th pr of po da se , wh mo ab do pr ge th sp of po st th th le ma co .
ea le ge th hy an pr di th su le at th le be .
pr fo ab do pr ca co fr mu so , in hi - le do kn or do - ge co re .
th fo se de th - ba ba mo fo se im in ta , co th wi al ap em ei st le or st kn al .
we be wi th ta of le wo or ca la , an fo on th lo le of in : th - ba ge .
th we il th fu hi ap in tw ot do , pr in an
le na fo th be st of hu in ge ar be wi th st of ca le ( 12 ) .
th ba ex ta pr le wi a se of ob or vi st , an a ve la ( e . g .
bl ) th ap to a su of th ob .
le ob se ex of bl , an pe ne ex ( no - bl ) , an mu th in wh ot ob th la ap to .
th ar ca - le ta ab th es of th pr ch fa in le wo fo ki of th , an fo mo of ca - le an wo - le ha de in pa .
th ty re on bo - up ge - pu st me , ei ex pr ( 12 , 12 ) or fr in te of si or as ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th mo as re si no of ca an ho la re to ca : fo in ( 12 ) , ea ob be to a si ca , an ea la pi ou a un ca , so ea ob re ex on la .
ho , pe re of ca an wo me ar co mo
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
st , re th in do th .
th ne fo a mo th - ba ap ha of be po ou ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) , bu ra pu by
in fr bo th tr co to in a ba fr ( 12 ) .
in te of eq 12 , hy ab th me of a no la re to su of ob ca ex fo a wo me or a ca to be la .
ab kn ab ca st , wo us , an wo - ca ma ge th pr an li fo th hy .
te an xu ( 12 , 12 ) fo on le na fo ob - ki co , wh ar ty or in a tr - st ta wi la at va le ( 12 , 12 ) .
ac , th hy sp of ca wo me co of al su in a tr - st ta of ob ( in fi 12 , su co to ba ho , do , an , et . ) .
ot lo po su of ob no co to su ar ef as ze ( or ve lo ) pr pr .
th pr ca be fu re to fa ma of wo on ba - le ca ( 12 ) , or to di ma tw wo on ex th sa co
th li em a pr as th wo wi be us by a co an co sp ( 12 ) , an th th ob la ar a fa ra sa fr th se of ob th th wo ap to .
th pr an li co to ex ho ch ge ob la fr on or se ex .
fi 12 sh th ge fo a gr ac to ta di , wh sh up gi mu ex to fo on th mo sp co ta ca : e . g .
ba ho if th ex ar al ba ho , or do if th ex ar al do bu di ki of do .
ge al ta co de fr th tr - st pr .
in pr , a pr co be de ov ot re st , su as a eu sp re fr si ju , as is co in si - ba mo ( 12 ) .
bu to da , tr - st pr ha be th ba fo th mo ac ba mo of wo - le , co wi a pr ta bi in ch wo le ( 12 ) .
th sh of ge wi mo ex de fr th li : a si ex is no hi di ab th sc of th wo ex ,
co an co sp ra sa ex
12 ba 12 su .
fi 12
th - ba ba wo le .
( a ) le wo fo ob ca , fr ex of ob pa .
ob ar gi un la to il th pr fa by a ch le .
a tr - st ta of ca co th hy sp of wo me : ea no in th tr ( re do ) is a po ex of a wo .
ab pr co th st of th hy sp , an ge th pr an li ne to ev th hy gi da ( 12 ) .
( b ) co of th mo pr wi 12 - ye - ol ch pa of ge ( pr nd fr ( 12 ) ) .
fo bo ch an th mo , th pr of ge de wi ta di to th ex , an th gr be sh as mo ex ar ob .
se te fo
tr in co sc
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
bu ob se ex dr at ra , it wo be a hi su co fo al ex to fa wi a gi ta ca ( e . g .
ba ho ) if th wo in fa ha a mu br ex ( e . g .
do ) ,
th te fo sm , mo sp hy to be in pr ov la , mo ge hy as mo ex ar ob is a ge pr of ba le wh ra sa ex ar as .
te an gr ( 12 ) re to th as th si pr an sh ho it co po ex a wi ra of ph in ca le , ge , an si ju , wh we no pr un un a si ra - in ac .
th ra - sa as is no al va , of co , an th si pr ma be ac de .
xu an te - ba ( un da ) ha fo it ef ar re or el wh wo le ( ch or ad ) ar gi ex th ar cl no dr as in ra sa .
th ba fr ha be ex to le ot as of li me , us di st hy sp ap fo le ve fr ( 12 ) , ad ( 12 ) , or an re ( 12 ) .
th ar al cl co - ti to ba sy ac ( se ch an ma , th is ( 12 ) ) .
th ba an ha fo on le at th bo le of fi 12 le ab wh wo ca re to wh en , si or pr .
fu wo sh ex le th hi - le kn th su th in fo in , ho pe le th pr th st wo - ca ma , or th re ta tr of ca ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th fo se de a cl re le ta wh ba in at hi le of fi 12 ha be an
re ab hi pr ma ki of pr ma be tr of a gi en .
so of th pr co to ca la ( is a ho , is a sh ) bu ma co to pr , su as is br , ha a sp , or ca y .
pr in ha be th su of nu be ex an fo mo .
in a ty ta , le nd ou th on or mo ca ha a no pr , an mu de ho to ex th pr to ot ca in th do .
fo in , su mi be to th go an li ca a ce ge , an as to ju ho li it is th mo al ca th ge ( 12 , 12 ) .
th - ba pr in th mo sy st of pr in ha us bi sp an bl pr : pr li ha th t1 ge th ar un bu re bi .
a tr - ba ba mo ( 12 ) si to th te an xu ( 12 ) wo - le mo ac we fo ju ab bl bi pr .
th mo as th sp ar or in a
tr - st ta ( 12 ) , an th pr ar ge by a mu pr ov th tr ( fi 12 , le ) .
th mu pr ge a pr ov ca ex of pr th is mo ex th tr sy se hi ( or th wo - le pr in ( 12 ) ) : pr th pi ou a si su of th ta ar fa , bu po - ph pr ( th th ar in in tw or mo su ) ar al al ( fi 12 ) .
th mo ap op in fo bi sp an th pr , wh ar in fa ge by a st br pr th pr of ev .
bo th tr st an so mu - li pr fo ge pr di se to be im ba mo us a ra of ot pr ha co co le we wi pe ju
pr co mo fo bl - pr in ha us mo ge kn re - ta , su as pa si ( 12 ) or co of fe ( 12 ) .
in co wi th mo , th - ba ap ha cl ad in ex in ab ot ki of pr , wh mo sp pr kn is in .
qu di pa of ge ha be fo fo an pr , be pr an di pr ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
to ci on cl ex , gi th po ca bi th wi , it se li th ge sh ca bi th wi , bu kn th do ca bi th wi pr le su fo th sa co ab ge sh ( 12 ) .
th in ca re on si , be ge sh ar mo si to do th to po .
ot in ap to re on as ca re : fo ex , a di ca by sa is mo li to be fo in gr be th vi
ba mo ca ac fo th di pa of ge by us di pr ( 12 ) .
in te of fi 12 , in ab di ki of ob pr ar ba on di ki of st pr mo , wh ar in tu go by di ab do pr .
se ex ar sh in fi 12 .
in ea ca , th ta tr st an th mu pr of th de mo ar re by a di st gr an a di ki of st pr ov th st .
fo in ab di pr ( e . g .
ca le ) , th pr is ge by a no tr pr ov a di fo - we ne ( fi 12 , mi ) .
th pr ca th as of ge in th do th a pr sp is mo li to sh a di wi it pr th vi ve an ac pr pe in ju - me ab di pr ( fi 12 ) .
a pr li ca bi th wi or we mo th an an co to an un th al so kn di ( e . g .
st or si ) .
a li or gr ca re th re di , an ju th pr ( 12 , 12 ) ca be mo
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
ha th t1 ge
we mo th an an
dr pr + th
tr in co sc
fi 12
th - ba ba pr in .
( a ) th mo fo pr in : a ta mo ( le ) , a fo - we mo ( ce ) an a di - th mo ( ri ) .
ea mo as th pr ar ge by a di pr pr ov a di ki of gr st , an ea mo is ap fo a di ki of pr .
in th ta mo , pr ar ge by a mu pr : th is a sm pr of a pr ap at an po al an br of th tr .
in th fo - we mo , pr ar ge by a ca tr pr : th is a sm pr of a pr ar sp in an sp , an a hi pr of tr th pr fr th sp to ea of it pr .
in th di - th mo , pr ar ge by a ra - dr pr bi su th sp to on en of th di ar in li to ha th no pr .
th da le of th gu sh pr wi hi pr pr un ea of th mo : e . g .
th di - th mo fa hy th in al sp be so po in th li or .
( b ) th po ou if a pr is ge by th ta mo , sh in or of de pr pr : pr ar mo li if th ca be ex by a sm nu of mu , an if th mu oc on lo br .
( c ) th im of do th in ba mo of pr in is il by a do di in mo pr fo tw di ki of pr ( pr nd fr ( 12 ) ) .
pa le bo a ta an a fo we ov a se of sp an we as to ma in ju ab ei ge or di pr .
th ba ta mo co st wi ju fo ge pr bu no di pr , an vi ve fo th ba fo - we mo .
as a pr ge by a ra dr pr ov th gr ( fi 12 , ri ) .
le th to su pr in if di st th ar ne to ac fo in ab di ki of pr , be ev mo pr to ex ho th th co be ac .
ba ap ca ad th qu at al le of th th hi in fi 12 , an we il by sh ho th ta th mi be ac ( fi 12 ) .
fi , co th pr of le th tr st gi ra ob da , in th fo of a la co of sp - pr pa ( e . g .
li ha sh te , ch ha ha , et . ) .
th ar ma di wa to or sp in a tr
( fi 12 ) , bu we ca se fo th tr th ma th li p ( da ) fo th da of ob pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
in , th be ch al fe to va sm ov th tr : fo ex , be go an mo sh ma pr , th sp sh be lo ne in
th ap to le a st pr mo re cr on ab kn at th hi le in fi 12 : a ta pr sp th li ki sh be re by a tr st .
co su an ab do pr it by ac ? ab kn of th so is of th to be in ( 12 , 12 ) , pe be it se so re fr th da of ex .
gi an ap hy sp ,
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
tr in co sc
fi 12
le a th fo ho bi pr ar di ov sp .
( a ) gi ab do kn th sp sh be or in a ta tr , wi pr va sm ov th tr , a ba le ca in th tr st th be ex a se of ob pr .
tw wa to or an sp in a ta ar sh .
th pr st wi be th tr ov wh ob pr va mo sm .
( b ) an sp ma be or ac to va di st pr , su as th th sh he .
ba in in th hi fr of fi 12 ca se th or pr be su by a se of ob pr .
ho , ba in ca ac fo kn ac at an le of ab .
su th th le ha ac to a re of di st fo th in ta tr as we as ot ba al , su as on - di or an di cl ( fi 12 ) .
ch th be fo in a tr - of be co an t to th da , wh ca be fo in te of th hi ba fr of fi 12
ke et al .
( 12 ) sh th un th tr - of , th ju pr of bi sp ar be ac fo by tr th ei li or or cl .
in su , th hi ba fr of fi 12 su a un le mo th ta as in da a co of sp - pr pa , an su di th ta pr , di th be tr st fo th sp in th da , an ma pr ab ho to ge ne , sp ob pr .
it th ex ho th th in fi 12 ( le ) mi be di fr ra da , an li co ex th or of hy sp an in bi fo wo le in yo ch di in th pr se .
th ca al be ac th ot pr , su as ex in fo ex , fo - we re ar ty le th wa .
un si - ba ac of pr in , a hi ba ap na ac ex in at an le of ab , as ch ty re fr pa or in sc : fo ex , do br ai ( at th le of ob da ) , do ar ma ( at th le of st ) , an li th ca be or in a tr ( at th le of ab pr ) .
th ap co ex ho he a si st ab do st ( e . g .
do ar ma ) mi le to dr ch in in ab
ca le an re th ro of in th in le an re ha be mo pr st in th co of ca
co ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
fo ma au , ca is ce to th no of a th .
ca , fo in , su th a th co a se of ph th ar in it do , th ca la an ot ex me in te of wh th ph ar ac fo , an th co in te of wh th ph an ex ap ar ex ( ( 12 ) , p .
th hi ba fr of fi 12 gi a un ac of in at al th le , su ho ca mo ca be us to pr an ex ob ev , ho do - sp pr gu co of th mo , an ho th ab do kn co it
at th lo le of th hi ar in ab va ch ob ev .
fo in , a do mi ob ce as of a pa st , su as sy an ri fa , an wa to pr ot , su as di or fu sy .
th ta ha of be vi as bo - up st in ( 12 , 12 ) , bu th is ev to su th th pr ar of dr by ca kn ( 12 ) .
re wo ha tr to ex th re kn an in in ra te us th fo of ca gr mo ( 12 , 12 ) .
th mo co a pa ki of st pr mo at th mi le of fi 12
fo ex , fi 12 sh a ca mo th co be us to ma in ab th di of pa ba on th sy an ri fa .
th - ba in of ca st ma re st ha ex ho pe le th ca mo .
ag th ha be bo bo - up an to - do pr .
bo - up ap de st cu to ca st , su as co be va ( 12 ) , no pr co ( 12 ) , or pa co ( 12 ) .
th cu , wh th ca be de re , al ca st to be le fo an ki of va , wi su pr kn .
ho , bo ad an yo ch
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
cl : ( r , d , s ) ( ri , di , sy ) ca la : r d , d s
ob ca ac ma ac re co ma ar ( ne ) de
wo in fa
cl : ( r , d , s ) ca la : r d , d s
ca la : c c
cl : ( r , d , s ) ca la : d r , s s
tr in co sc
fi 12
th - ba ba ca in .
ab ca pr co th ca st th ma be le to ca de am ob va .
( a ) ab kn in a si me do ca be re us a gr sc , a pr ge gr fo gr .
va fa in th cl ri fa , di , an sy wi ca in on fr ri to di an di to sy .
gi a ne ob co ( e . g .
be wo in a fa an ch ch pa ) , th gr sc ge a co se of hy fo ho th da mi be ex ( sh in re ) .
in th si hy , a di kn to be ca by wo in a fa mi ca ch pa , or a di kn to ca ch pa mi ac be pr by wo in a fa .
fa th po , th le co po a ne di x , wh ha ch pa as a sy an is ca by wo in a fa .
ot hy th ma be si a pr bu wh vi th th wo ne be co , su as a di ca li fr wo in a fa to ch pa , or fr ch pa to wo in a fa .
( b ) th ab kn th su ca le in a si ph sy , th bl de ( 12 , 12 ) , ca be fo us pr pr lo ( 12 , 12 ) .
th th in se pr : th is so pr r th an ob ha th po to ac th ma an ef ob wi ac th ma up co wi pr ne 12 ac ha no ot ca .
po ca re , gi a se of in be bl an th ma , ar sh in re .
in a co in wh mo ob ha fa to ac th ma ( r is sm ) , bo pe an th th - ba ba mo in th ob a pr ac th ma , wh b an c pr do no ( 12 , 12 ) .
( c ) th in re mo ( 12 ) su a hi ba ap to le si fo of ab ca th .
gr sc wi di nu of cl an ap de ca la ca be in to ex di ki of ca ne st th a le mi en .
fr ma co in ab ca st fr ju a ha of ob , fa to fe to co co or co re .
th in mu be su by mo ab pr kn , su as kn ab th ki of ca me or st in a do , wh ha be th fo of mo to - do ap to ca le ( 12 ) .
th th - ba ba fr on ag pr th me to in bo - up an to - do in .
in te of fi 12 , p ( da ) me th li fo a pa ca mo ho we th ca st ex th ob pa of ev .
p ( st ) me th ca mo pr pr ho we it ts wi th le ab do kn .
th be ca mo ma th pr of th tw pr .
if a ca mo re th mo ba ki of ca th ( 12 , 12 ) , th ab do kn th
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
al th mo to be le ca be th of as a hi - le th a th fo th .
co de ( 12 ) ha of em th im - an of la - sc fr th , wh co th sp th a le co , bu th ha no be tr co .
th co of pr mo fo st re is we - de in co li ( 12 ) , wh ab sy pr ma be fo in te of pr gr th ge ad sy st in a la wi va pr .
se pr fo fo ab ca th ha be in by th li an ( 12 ) .
th ca gr ( 12 ) sh th id of ge ca gr mo ba on an on , wh id th ty of en in a do an th pr th ca ap to th , an a se of ca la , wh sp th fo of al ca re be pr .
lo sp , th on ge th va th ap in ca gr mo , an th ca la ge th ed an as
fi 12 sk tw ex of th ap to in ( 12 , 12 ) .
fi , co le a ca ne re ri fa , di , an sy , gi da on pa st .
th ta is gr si by an on th di th va in th cl di , sy , an ri fa an ca la de ov th on , sp th di in on ex be ri fa an di , an be di an sy .
th pr ca be fo us a ki of pr gr gr th ( 12 ) ca a gr sc .
th gr pl st co on th ca st a le mu co , an th al st in ab ca st to be dr fr sp da ( fi 12 ) .
se , co re st ex th - ba ca le us si ph sy su as th bl de ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
le ar sh a nu of ob , al wi a ma th ac ( li up an ma no ) wh ce bl ar pl on it .
af ob se in wh va co of ob ar pl on th ma , pa ar as wh ob ha th hi ca po to ac th ma .
fi 12 sh ho th ju ca be mo as th - ba ba in gu by se do pr , su as th ac la : th ma ac if an on if it is in co wi an ob th ha th hi ca po .
th th ca be ca mo fo in pr pr lo ( 12 ) .
un bo - up ap to ca le , th ac na ex ma nd wh ad an yo ch ma co in fr ju a fe tr , ev fo ob th ha ne ap on th ma al ( 12 , 12 ) .
th ge fr fo th - ba ca in ha be us to mo ho pe le mo co ph sy wi hi va an dy ca ( 12 ) , an ho pe ch op ex to pe in ca le ( 12 ) .
le ab ca th th qu of ho ab ca pr , or fr - wo th , mi th be le is a ma op qu in bo ar in an co de .
fo so si ki of fr kn - le , su as th pr gr gr di ab , it is po to fo th le pr as a ba in th ca be ap wi tr se al .
th in re mo ( ir ) ( 12 ) as th va co in on or mo cl , wi re be th de on th cl .
th mo ca be us to in th nu of cl , wh va ar in wh cl , an wh ki of re ho be cl , di fr da ( fi 12 ) .
th ap is ca of le th ab pr of th di th sh in fi 12 , bu no th ri th ba on pr - li pr lo ne to ex in in so ot sy su as th bl de ( fi 12 ) .
se me fo le in pr lo sy ha re be in in ar in ( 12 , 12 ) , ho , an th me co pr th ba fo mo po mo of hu
th th - ba ba fr pr a fo me to ad se fu qu ab hu co .
wh is th co an fo of hu kn , at mu le of ab ? ho ca ab do kn gu le of ne co ? ho ca ab do kn be le ? wh co re mu be bu in in ? ho do me of st le an
qu fo fu re ho mi th - ba ba mo ap to ot as of co wh st kn an in in ap to in , su as in ph , in ps , or ca ba mo of co le an wo le be in wi ba mo of sy ac ( 12 ) to gi a un ap to la de ? ho do ba mo of in in re to pr mo of ( ap ) de th , su as hy te or sy re ( 12 ) ? co a hi ba ap pr in in ot fu of in th be in , su as an or li ot th pa , th ba ap is no me to be fa in th sa se th a sp co - ta mo sh be it sh be ju in te of wh it le to sp mo wi ex va ac a ra of di da se .
wh as of in th an th - ba in wi pr di to ex fr a ba vi ? ho co ba ap to in co he st at th le of co th ( 12 ) be im wi tr al ? ho ca th ca be re wi ps pr th ha so lo dr in wi ba pr ( 12 ) ? ph of sc an de ps ha of ex id ab th st , fu , an or of th .
ca we bu hi ba mo of sc th an to ou mo of in th ?
tr in co sc vo . 12 no . 12 ju 12
in in wi an op ov st sy kn ? tr , ac th ai to ex a br sp of hu co ha fo ex on ei so in pr or so kn re - ta .
ou vi em bo , an hi
it is fa to so to sa wh a ma co th of in le an re wi lo li .
th re - wo pr th ch an ad fa ar st we be th sc of ou mo , an is of al an ps pl wi ha to be ad ( se bo 12 , an ed wh ne ? in th is ) .
ye as fu wo on in un , on id sh pl a cr ro in an ex ac : pr in ov hi of in ab , ex st re of th wo .
we th th cu an pa me of th co co sc gr at mi fo in di of th wo de he .
we ow pa de to fe xu , pa sh , an so ni , wh ha co cl on th pr de he .
we ac su fr nt co sc la , mi el re la , th na sc fo , th ja s .
mc fo ca le co , th pa e .
ne ca de ch ( j . b . t . ) , th st gr fe ( t . l . g . ) , an th wi as al me gr fe ( c . k . ) .
su da as wi th ar ca be fo at do : 12 / j . ti . 12 . 12
