on of th rs pr in mu so as th ar ac la is wo se : wo bo in co sp .
ab 12 of ut - an di at en - le in co of is - la wo ( br & si , 12 ) , bu th is no ob wa fo ch to kn fr th ou wh ut th ar .
si mu - wo ut ge - al ha no ap pa be wo , ch mu be us ot cu to id wo bo .
in fa , th is ev th in us a wi ra of we cu fo wo se .
th cu in ph -
* co au .
te . : +1 12 12 12
e - ma ad : sg . ed . ac . uk , sg . co ( s
12 - 12 / $ - se fr ma 12 el b . v .
al ri re .
ti ( ma , ju , lu , & mo , 12 ) , al va ( ju , ho , & ba , 12 ) , me ( st ) pa ( ju , ho , & ne , 12 mo , bo , & tr , 12 ) , ef of co ( jo & ju , 12 ) , an st re in th se of sy fo in sp ( sa , as , & ne , 12 ) .
th la so of in ca be us in a la - in wa , an se to be us by in ea th mo ot cu , by th ag of 12 mo ( th & sa , 12 ) .
th fa ha ca so re to pr th st ba on st se in ar a cr rs st in bo wo se ( th & sa , 12 ) , an ha pr a gr de of in in th st ( as , sa , & ne , 12 sa , ne - po , & as , 12 sa et al . , 12 to , si , & so - fa , 12 ) .
in th pa , we us co
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
mo te to ex so of th as un mu of th re on st wo
mo pr wo on st wo se is ba on th ob th tr fr on sy - la or ph to th ne te to be le pr at wo bo th wi wo ( ha , 12 sa - fr et al . , 12 ) .
be re ha sh th in - fa ar in se to th ki of pr , as me by st su as tr pr ( as et al . , 12 sa et al . , 12 ) .
th re , ho , is ag as to th me by wh in - fa us st pa to pe wo se - ti .
a nu of re in bo co sc an co sc ha de al ba on tr pr , mu si st of pr in or to cl ho th st ca be us pr to id wo or wo bo ( an & le , 12 co & ad , 12 fe , ch , de , & zh , 12 sw , 12 ) .
he , we ta a di ap : we se to id th as th le mu ma ab th na of la in or to co se na - ur la in .
ob ab pr at wo bo ar co wi tw di ki of as ab wh co a wo : ei a wo is a un th is st in of ot un , or it is a un th he to pr ot un ( bu to a le de th th be of a wo pr it en ) .
in mo ar la - gu ex on wo se , as is ad im by cr st th ra ( or ne - ra ) co of no wo .
th ki of ra co is of ne - sa fo co ex wi hu su , an ha be us in de th hu ar se to th st re in su ra ge se .
ho , it ob ab aw fr ma of th co of na la , wh re ex no on in th re be su - wo un , bu al in th re be wo th .
we kn th hu ar ab to us su - wo re to be to ex wo it is na - ra to as wh at to th ki of re is su fo a st le to su wi wo se in a mo na se .
in th pa , we us co si to ex le fr na , ra th ar , la in .
we as wh ki of wo ar id by a le wh as th wo ar st in , or ( al ) by a le wh as as we th wo ar pr of la wo .
we in th qu by de tw di ba mo of wo se in ea of th tw di as .
th mo ca be se as id le : th ar de - si to be op gi th av in da , in th ca a co of ph tr ch - di -
us ou id le ap , we nd in ou rs se of si th th le wh as th wo ar st in un te to un
th co , id co co - oc se of wo as si wo .
th re se to co wi th of se ea mo ( ba , 12 br , 12 ve , 12 ) , wh sy un wa no fo ev wh wo we as to be in .
ho , we ar he th th pr re ar mi .
al ea of th le is ba on a pr mo th de - ne an op so to th se pr , we pr bo em an an ev th th se fo by th le ar no th op - ma on .
ra , th ar th re of li im by th pa le al em .
fu ma an sh th un is th op so to th le pr fo an re - so de mo th as st in - de be wo .
mo on to ou se se of si , we nd th pe th le to ga in ab wo - to - wo de gr re th pr of un .
th co is se in a mu mo ac , ad - li wa .
th re in - ca th , fo an id le to id wo ba on st pa of ph or sy , it is im - ta to ta in ac th fr pr pa - te ma oc ei wi wo or ac wo .
th ki of du pa is a re of th hi st of la , wh pr pa oc at ma di le .
a le wh co pr - ab at on on le ( su - wo un wi wo ) wi be le su th a le wh co al th pr of la un ( wo ) wi th se - te co .
th se , mo nu in of th st pa in th in le to be
ou wo ha im im fo th un - st of hu wo se .
we sh th su - as th th le ma ab th na of wo .
th as co th ki of in - en th ar ma wh th le is pr wi na in .
ou id le an al us to ex th ki of co th ar ne to su - ce id wo , an su th in or yo ch ma ne to ac fo mo su st ef - fe th ha ty be di in th li .
to da , th is li di ev th ve yo la - gu le ap id le .
ne , th su is no co un , gi th ac ev in fa of hu as id le in ot do or at ot ag ( fr , go , ma - in , gr , & te , 12 sc , bo , & gr , 12 xu & te , 12 ) .
in or to fu ex wh in be as id le , or th wa in wh th de fr th id , it is im to rs un wh be to ex fr an id le .
th th re pr he pr a ch of th be , an we ho th th wi pr in fo fu ex wo in th re be hu le an id le .
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
th re of th pa is or as fo .
fi , we br re th id of tr pr an ho th re to th no of wo , an pr so ba on th pr mo ap ta he .
we dr a di be tw ki of pr mo - ba sy th ba on ma - mu - li an ba es an ar in fa - vo of th ba ap .
we di in so de th st an we of th mo - ba dy - na pr ( mb - 12 ) sy , a ba le de by br ( 12 ) .
ne , we in ou ow ba un mo an le al , wh ad so of th we of mb - 12
we pr th re of si us th mo an co th to th re of pr pr mo .
we th ge ou un mo re us ad - ti em an th ar , re so de ma si be ou un mo - el an mb - 12
fi , we ex ou mo to in - ra bi de , pr th re of th bi mo , an co by di th im of ou wo .
wo an tr pr
th qu of ho in be to se wo fr co sp ha in a gr de of re - se ov th ye ( ju , 12 ) .
wh ma di - en cu ha be sh to be im , he we fo on on pa cu : st re in th se - qu of so th oc in na la .
th id th wo an mo bo ma be di - er th th us of st in is no ne , bu or th me we se pr as an - ly to fo li ( ha , 12 , 12 ) .
mo re - ce , ev th in ar se to st de be sy ha le we to th id th th ki of in ma ac be us by hu le fo ea wo se ( sa et al . , 12 th & sa , 12 ) .
in pa , re - se on st wo se ha fo on th no of tr pr be su - wo un ( e . g . , se or sy ) .
th tr pr - bi fr ( sa ) sy x to sy y is si th co - di pr of y gi x .
in na la , th is a ge te to lo tr pr - it at wo bo th wi wo ( ha , 12 sa et al . , 12 ) , a te wh in se ab to ex in or to se wo - li un fr co - ti sp ( as et al . , 12 sa et al . , 12 ) .
wh ot cu ar al im fo wo se - ti , an ma in fa ta pr ov tr pr in ol in , tr pr se to be on of th ea cu th in ar ab to us fo th ta ( jo & ju , 12 th & sa , 12 ) .
mu of th ex wo de to st wo se an re li ta ha fo - cu on ex th ki of st in th hu le ar or ar no se to , e . g . , tr - si pr vs .
fr ( as et al . , 12 ) ,
sy vs .
ph ( ne , we , as , & wo - in pr ) , ad vs .
no - ad de - de ( ne & as , 12 ) , an th wa in wh tr pr in wi ot ki of cu ( jo & ju , 12 th & sa , 12 , 12 ) .
in ad , ma re ha ex th ex to wh wo se ba on tr - ti pr ca be vi as a sp ca of mo ge pa - or se - le me th op ov a ra of co do ( cr , ne , & as , 12 fi & as , 12 ) .
a qu th ha re le ex at is ho th no tr pr re to th no of wo .
tr pr ar a pr of th bo be wo ( or un wi wo ) , bu ul it is th wo th , ra th th bo , th ar of in to th la le / it be us , th , to co wh po pr of wo ( or , mo ac , wo se - qu ) co gi ri to th pa of tr pr th ar ty di in th li , i . e .
lo pr at wo bo an hi pr wi wo .
gi a le of wo , on wa th th st pa of tr pr ca ar is by ch - in wo in at ra fr th le an st th to to fo a se .
to a rs ap , th is th pr th is ty us to ge st fo mo of th ex me ab . 12 th ar ma go re to ge ex - me st in th wa , es wh th fo of re - se is on tr pr : ch wo at ra co fo po or ef an ot co - fo , an le to si an sy pa of tr - si pr .
ho , th is cl an wa we co ge a se of wo , by ch ea wo co on th pr wo or wo .
de - in on th st of th wo - to - wo de , tr - si pr be wo ma be lo or hi .
in ge , if th st of th de be wo is va , th in a no - in se of wo , wo bo wi st te to be as wi lo tr pr ( si ma pa of wo wi no be hi de ) .
ho , th wi al be wo bo wi re hi tr pr ( wh tw wo ar hi as , as in ru du or th a ) .
th mo th we de in th pa ar de to ex th re of ma th tw di as ab th na of la : th wo ar st in un , or th th ar pr - ti un .
in th ab th di be le - er ma ea of th tw ki of as , we fr th is in te of th sp of li hy -
12 th wo in ex st ar ne ch co in , du to re ag im re of wo .
wh th le is sm , th le to si de fr in .
ho , as th le si gr , se wi re wi be mo an mo si to tr in
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
es ( lo , gr ) th ea le co .
no - ti th a le wh as th ut ar fo fr se of in ch wo is mo re - st th a le wh as th wo ma pr - di ot wo .
th se le is ab to le gr th de ei pr or no - pr se of wo , wh th rs le ca on le gr fo no - pr se of wo .
if wo ar tr in , th th rs le ma ha an ad du to th pr of th st co , be th le ha a mu sm sp of hy - se to co .
on th ot ha , th se le wi ha an ad in th ca wh wo ar no in - pe , be th le wh as in wi ne be ab to co on th co hy .
be de ou im of th tw ki of le , we rs ou ou ge ap an pr - vi a su of re wo .
pr mo fo wo se
be wo in th ve of sa et al .
( 12 ) ha pr a we of in re th ki of st hu le ar se to , at wh ag , an to wh de re to ot ki of se cu .
co mo pr a co me of in th ca be us to te sp hy ab ho st in mi be us pr to id wo bo or wh un co pr is be so .
us th te of ma ( 12 ) , th tw ki of qu - ti ca be in by de mo at ( re - ti ) th al le or co le of th ac sy .
ty , re in al - ri - le qu by im al th ar be to in co pl me - ni of in pr .
al - le ap - pr to wo se in a va of ne ne mo ( al et al . , 12 ca & sh - co , 12 ch , al , & se , 12 el , 12 ) as we as se le al ba on tr - si pr , mu in , an si st - ti ( an & le , 12 co & ad , 12 fe et al . , 12 sw , 12 ) ( wi mo of th la gr co fr th co sc li ) .
in co to th pr , ou wo pr a co - le an of th wo se pr .
a co - le ap fo on id th pr fa th le an de - in th lo th wh it ca be so .
fo pr of in su as th fa th la le , pr th pr a na de co - le mo .
a pr is a se of de ma st sp th go of th le pr an th ki of in th wi be us to ac th .
of co , th de st mu be pa wi so al th ca be us to ac th sp go , bu ge th al is no se as th fo of re .
ra , co - le in of - te ta th fo of id le an , ex th
be of a le wh be op gi th as of th mo . 12
ve ge , we ca vi th go of a la le - ne as id so ab re of th ob - se da ( e . g . , a gr ) th wi al no li in to be co in , an no ou - pu to be co pr .
ma di re - ti ar lo po , so th le mu ha so wa to de wh re is mo li to be co .
pr mo pr a na wa to ma th de , by cr a pr di ov di hy re gi th ob da .
a le wh is ab to co id th po di ov hy ca us th in to pr fu in an ou in an op wa ( i . e . , in a wa th is as si as po to th co ge pr th ad gr ) .
un th vi , th , th po di ov gr is th ou of th le pr .
ho do th le go ab id th po di ? ba ru te us th th pr of a hy gr h gi th ob da d ca be co as
wh th su in th de ra ov al hy - es h1 wi th hy sp .
he , pd ( kn as th li ) is th pr of th ob da gi a pa hy , an te us ho we th hy - es ex th da .
ph ( th pr pr of h ) te us ho go a li hy h is , re of an da .
th pr ca be vi as a le bi or me of li na : hy wi hi pr pr - ab ma be ad ba on le ev th hy wi lo pr pr .
ba ru st th th po pr ph is pr to th pr of th li an th pr , wi th de - to ac as a no co to en th ph su to on ov al hy .
th le ca co th po pr of di hy by ev - ua ea on ac to it ex po ( li - ho ) an th le pr ex .
ba ru an th qu of ho to de th po pr of a hy if th pr pr - ab an li ar kn , bu it do no te us ho to co th te in th rs pl .
we tu rs to th ca of th li .
ty , th li is co by de a ge mo : a pr
12 a no on te : th wo mo un en tw re bu ( im ) di se .
it ca be us to de ei ( 12 ) a pr ab th na of le or it im ( as in co mo , ex mo ) ; or ( 12 ) a sp ma - ic st re th pr ge a se of da ( as in pr mo , ge mo ) .
a pr mo ( se se ) to wi it le al ca be vi as an in of a le mo ( rs se ) .
to av co , we wi ge us th te mo on fo th se se , an th te sy or le to de th fu im co of a pr mo an le al .
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
pr fo ge th ob da gi th hy - es un co .
as a si no - li ex - pl , im th da d co of th re of 12 co ip an we wi to de th pr of d gi hy h th di in th pr of ip he .
we as a ge mo in wh ea ob is th re of ip th sa co , an th co al ha pr p of la on he in of an pr ou .
th se of hy un co - at co of al po va fo p .
we th ha pd p pn pn , wh nh an nt ar th nu of he an ta ob in a pa se - qu of ip .
ma - li es
a st me of us a pr ge mo fo le is to pe ma - li es - ma , i . e . , to ch th hy ^h th ma th va of th li fu .
th is eq to ch th hy wi ma po pr - bi , as a un pr di ov hy - es wi re to th gi pa .
in th co ip ex , it is ea to sh us el ca - cu th th li is ma wh h nh th , if we ob a se co of fo ta an si he , th ma - li es fo h is
fo mo co ge mo su as th ty - ic us in la mo , it is us im to id th ma - li hy an .
if th nu of po hy is sm , it ma be fe to ex co th li fo ea po - bl hy an ch th be on .
ho , in ge - er , it wi be ne to de so so of al fo se th th sp of hy wi ev al of th .
th id al wo be on
th is gu to nd th gl op hy .
in ma ca , ho , ap se al ar us .
th al ge wo by se th op - ma hy wi so lo re of th se sp .
ap se al ma be us fo pr re ( wh an ex pr is no kn , as in an ( 12 ) ) or fo th re ( if th re - se wi to in pa as ab hu le , as in sa , gr , & na ( 12 ) ) .
in ei ca , ce hy ar ex fr co by th al it .
co , th us of an ap se pr ca ma a pu co - le an di .
th ki of ge ma by th le ar de bo by th ex co sp by th pr mo , an th im co sp by th se pr .
ex of th ty of le sy ar de - sc by ve ( 12 ) an ba ( 12 ) .
th mo un th sy ar ve si we de on ve wo in de .
ve pr a me of wo se - ti ba on ma - li es .
he di - cu th di ge mo of in co we fo ou an on th si of th , al ou ar ca be ex to al th .
th mo is a st un mo , i . e . , it as th wo ar ge in at ob da co of a co of ph tr - sc ch - di sp , wh ut bo ( co to pa in th in ) ar kn , bu wo bo ar un ( se fi .
th pr - ti mo un th sy de ho to ge - at a co gi u , th nu of ut in th co th di sy $ , wh is us to ma ut bo an r , th ph sy al - be ( wh do no in $ ) :
an ex fr th be of th co us as in to ve ( 12 ) wo se sy , sh ( a ) th ac in co an ( b ) th co st or tr .
th co wa or pr by br an ca ( 12 ) us da fr be - ra ( 12 ) , an wa al us as in to br ( 12 ) mb - 12 sy .
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
re u ti :
re un $ is ge : 12
ge th ne wo , w , wi pr pw .
ge $ wi pr p$ .
wh pw is so pr di ov r , th se of al po wo .
as ea wo is ge , it is co - ca on th pr ge se of wo .
no bo ma is ad un th en - of - ut ma , $ , is ge .
un th mo , th pr of ge wo w1 .
wn as a si ut -
an th pr of ge th un ut - an u is fo by su ov al po se of wo th co be co to fo u :
th pr of th en co is th pr of th pr of th in ut .
th hy sp fo th mo co of al th po as - me of pr va to wo an th ut i . e . , po va fo p$ an th pa of pw .
no th in th hy sp ju de , so ch of pw ma as no - ze pr to on a - ni su of po wo .
di hy wi ha di si , i . e . , di nu of wo wi ha no - ze pr .
cr , ho , no pr - en is gi to hy of an pa si th ma - li as st th we sh ch wh hy as th hi pr - it to th ob da .
wh is th ma - li hy un th mo ? it is st to sh th , in ge , th ma - li so fo a mo is th pr - it di th is cl to th em di ( re fr ) of ob in th co , wh th di is co by an in th me ca th ku di ( bi , 12 , p .
12 , in al . ) .
in th ab mo , th is on hy th is ab to ma th em di of th co ex .
th hy tr ea ut as a si wo , wi pr eq to th em pr of th ut in th co , an as p$ 12
in ot wo , th so me th en da se wi se ut at al , an as ze pr to an un ut .
in , an so th do hy wo bo wi re p$ < 12 , wh me th so un ut - an wi ha no - ze pr th th ca be cr by , fo ex , co tw ob ut - an , or re th hy wo in no
or .
si so pr ma is al to th un ut , th pr of th ob - se da mu be lo th in th ca wh p$ 12 an no ge is po .
fo a ma - li le us th mo in eq .
( 12 ) , th , on a tr se wi be fo un - le so co is pl on th ki of hy th ar co .
cr , ho , th ar do no de on th pa fo of pw us in eq .
( 12 ) , wh wo ar as to be ge in - de of co .
ma ot po di ov wo wo yi th sa re .
ve , fo ex , pr tw ot mo in wh th un di pw is re wi a bi or tr di - bu : ra th ge wo in of co - te , ea wo is ge co on ei on or tw pr wo .
th is , th bi mo de
wn pw
es , th re th al of th mo yi th sa ma - li so ( an un co - pu ) is th th ar al to co hy wi ar nu of it .
wh co hy wi di le of co ( co - sp he to th nu of wo ty in th hy - es ) , a ma - li le wi ge pr a mo co hy ov a si on .
th le to th pr of ov , wh th le ch a hy th ts th ob da ve we , bu ge - al ve po to ne da .
in th ca of wo se - ta , th so of co me al th le to t th ob da pe .
si we kn th th is no th so fo by ve le , we mu co th th al he pr to se th sp of po hy mu be im - in ad co be th of th mo th .
it sh be cl fr th pr di th th is no th ap ad he , si it re - de co im an di to ex .
ba - de ( 12 ) ma - li le sy us an ex ex co to pe le it th ar to lo .
th ap is a st in th ri di , bu is le ma pr th ba mo - in wh a ( no - un ) pr di ov hy is us wi th mo it to co le .
we no re se of th ba mo th se as in fo ou ow wo .
ba mo
in th pr se , we ar th un ma - li es is a po wa to ch be hy wi di co .
in ba - ia mo , th ef of th li ca be co - ba by ch a pr di th fa si hy .
si hy wi te no to t th ob da as we , bu wi te to ge mo su to no da .
by co bo th li an pr in de th po pr - it of ea hy , ba le na av
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
th ki of ov th ma - li le en .
th tr - of be t an ge wi de on ex ho th pr is de we no de se me th ha be us to de pr in pr ba mo .
pe th mo we - kn fr fo de ba mo is kn as mi de le ( md ) ( ri , 12 ) , an is ex by th wo of de ma ( 12 ) an br an ca ( 12 ) .
md is a pa fo of ba le th ha be us su in a nu of ot ar of la ac as we ( cr & la , 12 do - ma , 12 el , 12 go , 12 go & jo , 12 ) .
th ba id be md is to de so en sc th ca be us to en th co - pu in a mo co re .
in wo se - ta , fo ex , a co mi co of a li of le it al wi a bi re fo ea on .
wi ap ch fo th le it an bi re ( wi sh re as to mo co wo ) , th le of th co co be re by re ea wo wi it bi co .
in th fr , th le hy ar di po - si en sc .
th mi de le pr st th th op hy is th on th mi th co le , in bi , of th hy it - se ( th co ) an th en co .
us re fr in th , it ca be sh th ch a hy us th md pr is eq to ch - in th ma a po ( ma ) hy th hy wi th hi po pr un a ba mo wh th pr pr of a hy - es de ex wi it le .
wo , md co to a pa ch of pr di - tr ov hy , wh hy ar pr if th ca be de mo su .
al md mo ca in pr pr go wo se re , th ar no st se al fo th ki of mo , an it is of di - cu to de ef mo - sp al .
fo ex , br an ca ( 12 ) we fo to li th an to a ve sh co ( ab 12 ut ) du to ef co .
in la re , br de - op an ba mo fo wo se wi a mo ef se al ( br , 12 ) .
he na th sy mo - ba dy pr ( mb - 12 ) . 12 si we wi be re to th mo at va po th th pa , we no de mb - 12 in
un mo de wi th md fr , wh hy co to po en me - od , mb - 12 as th th hy un co - at ar ac se of wo , wh ea wo is a se of ph sy .
th in co co of ph tr ut of ch - di sp , as in fi .
so wo se , wh co - na to to re wo bo , wi fo ex -
12 th 12 in mb - 12 wa in as a ve nu , al br
ne de an la ve of th sy .
ac th st of sy fo in th co , wh ot wi no .
th pr of th ob da gi a pa hy se of wo wi th ei be eq to 12 ( if th co wo fo th co ) or 12 ( if no ) .
co , on hy th ar co wi th co mu be co .
fo ea po se of th co , th po pr of th se wi be di pr - ti to it pr pr .
th pr pr , in tu , is co us a ge mo .
th mo as th th se of wo in th co wa cr in a se of fo st : 12
st 12 : ge th nu of ty th wi be in th
st 12 : ge a to fr fo ea le ty .
st 12 : ge th ph re of ea ty ( ex fo th si di ut - an bo ty , $ ) .
st 12 : ge an or fo th se of to .
ea st in th pr is as wi a pr di ov th po ou of th st , so to th fo st de th pr pr di - bu ov al po se co .
we di th sp di us in ea st in ap b; he it is su to no th th di te to as hi pr to se co fe an sh le it , so th th le wi pr to sp ut in wo .
to se th sp of po se of th co , br de an ef on al .
th al ma a si pa th th co , se - me on ut at a ti ba on th se - ti fo fo al pr ut .
th on na of th al is in to pr a mo re si of hu wo se th ea ba le al ( br & ca , 12 de ma - ke , 12 ) , wh as th th en co of da is av to th le at on ( i . e . , th le ma it - at ov th da ma ti ) .
in th re of th pa , we wi de tw ne ba mo of wo se in , in pa , by br wo .
li br , we us a ge mo - el - ba ba fr to de ou le .
mo , as we pr in ap b , ou rs ( un ) mo is ma ve si to th mb - 12 mo - el .
ho , ou wo di fr br in tw re .
fi , ou mo ar mo ex , wh al us to mo ea in th ef of di mo as .
in th , ea st of br mo ca be in mo , bu in pr th ma st of th mo an th ap ne fo th se pr ma it di to mo th mo in an in wa .
in pa , th fo st as a un di ov or , wh
12 ou pr in a sm ch fr br ( 12 ) , sw th or of st 12 an 12
th ch ma no di to th mo , bu pr a mo na gr of st fo pu of ou an in ap b .
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
cr a un co th ca ea be ch .
we do no su th br wa th mo in hi ch of a un mo , or th he wo be op - po to in wo - to - wo de , me th th mo ch av to hi we li by th st te av at th ti of hi wo .
in th pa , we ma us of mo ex re te th al us to de bo un an bi - gr mo of wo se an ex th di - en in le th re .
th se ke co of th pa li in ou fo - cu on an th pr of wo se at th co le by en , to th be of ou ab , th th on co on th le ar th im by th mo it .
we ha al sh th th mo - el - ba ap of ve ( 12 ) an ba - de ( 12 ) ar co by th ch of se al in th fo se we de th th ap se pr us by br ( 12 ) pr hi le , to , fr id th op so un hi mo .
al in pr on co de a ba mo wi th md or mb fr - wo th co ac fo wo - to - wo de , th as se pr wo un be ev mo co th th re fo th cu un mo , an th ev le li to id op - ma so .
be ou ow wo is ba on mo re - ce ba te , we ar ab to de se pr us a st cl of al kn as ma ch mo ca me ( gi , ri , & sp , 12 ) , wh pr sa fr th po - te di ov hy .
we pr ev th th so id by ou al ar in op or ne - op , wh al us to dr co - si us id ob ar an to av th ob ef of ad ho se pr .
un mo
ge mo
li mb - 12 , ou mo as th th hy un co by th le ar po se - ti of th co in se of wo .
wo se - qu th ar co wi th co ha a li of 12 , wh ot ha a li of 12 , so th po pr of a se is de by it pr pr .
al as in mb - 12 , we co th pr pr of a se by as th th se of wo in th se wa cr ac to a pa pr ge pr .
le w w1 .
. w n be th wo in th se .
se - ti as th co fa of ut bo , ou un mo as th th it wo in th se - qu , wi , is ge as fo :
( 12 ) de if wi is a no le it .
. x m ) fo wi .
if so , ge a ph fo ( ph
if no , ch an ex le fo fo wi .
we as pr to ea po ch as fo :
, pw is no no n ( 12 ) pw is no a1 ( 12 ) a .
pw x1 .
. x m j wi is no b .
pw j wi is no no n
wh a1 is a pa of th mo , n is th nu of pr ge wo ( i 12 ) , n is th nu of ti le it ha oc in th n wo , an p# is th pr of ge a wo bo .
ta to , th de yi th fo di ov wi gi th pr wo wi fw .
. w i1 :
i 12 a1
i 12 a1
wh we us p1 to re to th un ph di - ti in st 12 .
( th p# an 12 p# fa in th di - ti re fr th pr us to ge a wo fr co ph : af ea ph is ge , a wo bo is ge wi pr p# an th pr en , or el no wo bo is ge wi pr 12 p# an an ph is ge . )
we no pr so in fo th as th ar bu in th mo .
fi , no th in st 12 , wh n is sm , th pr of ge a no le it is re la .
as mo wo to ar ge an n in , th re pr of ge a no it de , bu ne di en .
th pa of th mo me th se wi to ma di le it wi ha lo pr - bi , pr pr fo th le to id a se - me co of re fe le it .
in st 12 , we de th pr of a no le it as th pr of th pr of ea of it ph .
th en th ve lo le it wi be st di .
fi , in st 12 , we sa th th pr of ge an in of th le it is pr - ti to th nu of ti ha al oc .
in ef - fe , th le as th a fe le it wi te to oc ve fr , wh mo wi oc on on or tw .
in pa , th di ov wo fr - ci pr by ou mo be a po - la di - bu fo la co ( ar , ba , & ta , 12 ) , th ki of di th is fo in na la - gu ( zi , 12 ) .
th mo we ha ju de is an in of a ki of mo kn in th st li as a di - le pr ( fe , 12 ) .
th di pr is co - mo us in ba st as a no - pa pr fo cl mo , an is cl re to an - so ( 12 ) ra mo of ca ( sa et al . , 12 ) .
th di pr ha tw pa : th co pa a1 an th ba di p1
th co pa de ho ma cl wi ty be fo in a da se of a pa si ( he , ho ma wo ty fo a pa nu of to ) , an th ba di de th ty ch of a cl ( he , th pa ph in a wo ty ) .
a mo de ma tr
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
of ou mo an it re to th di pr is pr in ap a , bu th co le us to re - fe to ou un mo of wo se as th di pr ( dp ) mo .
so fa , th mo we ha de as pr - ti to se of wo wh th ar no ut bo .
ho , be th in co co ut bo , we ne to ex th mo to ac - co fo th .
in th ex mo , ea hy co of a se of wo an ut bo , an hy ar co wi th in if re wo bo ( bu no ut bo ) yi th in co .
to co th pr of a se of wo an ut bo , we as th th se wa ge us th mo ab , wi th ad of an ex st : af ea wo is ge , an ut bo ma $ is ge wi pr - bi p$ ( or no , wi pr 12 p$ ) .
fo si , we wi su th po of th mo in th ma bo of th pa , an re th re to ap a fo
we ha no de a ge mo th al us to co th pr of an se of th in co .
we ar le wi th pr of in , or ac id th hi pr se - ti fr am al po .
we us a me kn as gi sa ( ge & ge , 12 ) , a ty of ma ch mo ca al ( gi et al . , 12 ) in wh va ar re sa fr th co po di gi th cu va of al ot va in th mo .
gi sa is an it pr in wh ( af a nu of it us as a bu - in pe to al th sa - pl to co ) ea su it pr a sa fr th fu po di ph .
ou sa , th va of in ar po wo bo , ea of wh ca ta on tw po va - ue , co to a wo bo or no wo bo .
bo ma be in at ra or us an ot me in do no ma si th sa wi ev co to sa fr th po di . 12 ea it of th sa co of st th ev po bo lo an re it va co on al ot cu bo pl .
si ea se of as to th bo va un de - mi a se , sa bo is eq to sa se of wo as ou hy .
al gi sa is a ba le al , wh th en da se is av to th le at on , we no th th ar ot sa te kn as pa lt ( do , an , & go , 12 sa et al . , 12 ) th ca be us to pr
12 of co , ou po th in do no ma is a th on in pr , so in ma le to fa co th ot , an ch th di in le to th sa re is on wa of te fo co of th sa , as we do in ap a .
ap of th po di in an on fa ( ex ea ut in tu ex on ) .
we re in th ge di to th qu of ho a pa lt mi be de fo ou ow mo in th fu .
fu de of ou gi sa al ar pr in ap a .
to fa co to pr mo of wo se , we re re on th sa co us by br ( 12 ) an ve ( 12 ) .
th da is de - ri fr th be co ( be - ra - ne , 12 ) of th ch da ( ma & sn , 12 ) , wh co or tr of ut di at 12 - to 12 - mo - ol .
th da wa po - pr by br , wh re di an no - wo , di pa ut no di - te at th ch , an co th re of th wo in a ph re us a ph di - na ( i . e .
ea or fo wa al gi th sa ph fo ) .
th re co co 12 ut , wi 12 , 12 wo to an 12 un - iq ty .
th av nu of wo pe ut is 12 an th av wo le ( in ph ) is 12 .
th wo bo in th co ar us as th go st fo ev , bu ar no pr in th in to th sy ( ex fo wo bo th ar al ut bo ) .
th pr us to cr th co me th it is mi ma of th co of re ch - di sp .
no th le of th is th ac va wi wh di to of th sa wo ar pr - du , a fa wh pr ma wo se - ti mo di .
on th ot ha , th co is al mi ma cu wh co ai in se , su as co in , st , an du .
wh th id of ch - di sp is so un , th co do pr a wa to in th us of pu di cu fo se , an pe di co to ot wo se -
ev pr
fo qu ev , we ad th sa me - su us by br ( 12 ) an ve ( 12 ) : pr - ci ( nu of co it fo ou of al it fo ) an re ( nu of co it fo ou of al co it ) .
th me ar wi in th co li co th sa me ar of kn as ac an co in th co - ti sc co ( br & ca , 12 ch - ti et al . , 12 ) .
we al re re in te of f1 ( an co me us in co li - gu , al kn as f - me or f - sc ) .
f1 is th ge - me av of pr an re , de as , an pe re wh pr an re ar ve di .
we re th fo sc fo ea mo we pr :
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
ar mu be co id to co as co .
p , r , f : pr , re , an f1 on wo : bo bo - lp , lr , lf : pr , re , an f1 on th le , i . e .
bp , br , bf : pr , re , an f1 on po am - uo bo ( i . e .
ut bo ar no in in th co ) .
as an ex , im a on - ut co wh co - re se is lo at th bi do th , wh in we nd th se lo at th bi g th re .
th ar se wo in th fo se , an si in th tr se th of th wo ma .
we re al sc as pe , so p = 12 ( 12 / 12 ) , r = 12 ( 12 / 12 ) , an f = 12 .
si , bp = 12 ( 12 / 12 ) , br = 12 ( 12 / 12 ) , bf = 12 , lp = 12 ( 12 / 12 ) , lr = 12 ( 12 / 12 ) , an lf = 12 .
no th if th le co id al of th bo in th tr so - ti , bu al pr ex bo ( ov - ti ) , th bo re wi re 12 , bu bo pr an bo f1 wi be lo .
co , if th le pr no in bo , bu fa to id al of th tr bo ( un ) , th bo pr wi be 12 , bu bo re an f1 wi be lo .
in ei ca , sc fo wo to an le it wi be be 12 .
fo co , we re sc as we fo br mb - 12 sy ( br , 12 ) an ve n - gr se sy ( ve , 12 ) , wh we wi re to as ng - u an ng - b ( fo th un an bi - gr mo ) .
bo br an ve us on se pr ( i . e . , th sy ma a si pa th th da , se ea ut in tu ) , so in th pa th ca pr an re se - ra on ea 12 - ut bl of th co an gr th re to sh ho sc ch as mo da is pr - ce .
th do no re le re or bo pr - ci an re .
th re ar ra no , bu pe se to st ra , af ab 12 ut .
to fa co wi ou ow re , we ca sc fo mb - 12 an ng ov th wh co , us ve im of th
si ou al pr ra se sa fr th po di ra th a si - gl op so , th ar se po wa to ev it pe .
fo mo of ou si , we ev a si sa ta af 12 , 12 it .
we us a me kn as si an ( aa & ko , 12 ) to sp co of th sa , an in so ca ( no be ) to ob an ap of th ma so by co sa ar th mo of th po .
th al us to ex po di be a ra sa of th po an a sa mo cl ap th ma se - ti .
de of th an an ma ap pr - ce ca be fo in ap a .
12 th im ar av at ht : / / ww . sp . sr . co /
( a ) va p# wi
12 = 12
va of p#
12 wi p# = . 12
f1 fo wo ( f ) an le it ( lf ) in th dp mo ( a ) as a fu of p# , wi a1 12 an ( b ) as a fu of a1 , wi p# : 12
re an di
th dp mo we ha de ha tw fr pa - te : p# ( th pr pr of a wo bo ) , an a1 ( wh af th nu of wo ty pr ) . 12 fi .
12 sh th ef of va of p# an a1
lo va of p# re in mo lo wo , wh te to im re ( an th f1 ) in th le .
th ac de in to ac is du to an in te fo th mo - el to co sh wo to , a ph we di fu be .
hi va of a1 al mo no wo , wh al im le re , bu be to de - gr pr af a po .
du to th ne co be to ac an le ac , th is no si be va fo ei p# or a1
in th re of th se , we fo on th re fo p# : 12 a1 12 ( th ot ar qu si we di th br
in ta 12 , we co th re of ou sy to th of mb - 12 an ng - u .
al ou sy ha hi le ac th th ot , it to ac is mu wo .
pe do no va a gr de be - tw di sa , si ca th sc fo a si sa al in av ov ma ra - do ch th ch of wh to pl a bo at ea lo or no .
ta 12 sh th me an st - da de in f1 sc an po pr ov sa ta fr 12 in ru of th al wi di ra in .
th sa st
12 th dp mo ac co a th fr pa , q , us as a pr ov th pr of an ut bo ( se ap a ) .
gi th la nu of kn ut bo , th va of q sh ha li ef on re , so we si xe q 12 fo al si .
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
wo se ac of un sy .
no : p , r , an f ar pr , re , an f1 fo wo to bp , lp , et .
ar th co sc fo am bo an le it .
be sc ar sh in bo .
dp re ar wi p# : 12 an a1 12
re of th dp mo , av ov mu sa .
sa ( 12 ru ) sa ( 12 ru )
no : to f1 ( f ) , le f1 ( lf ) , an ne lo po pr we av ov 12 sa fr in ru of ou gi sa , ov 12 sa fr a si ru , an ov 12 sa fr in ru of ou ma ap ( se te ) .
st de - ti ar sh in pa .
ar al pr fo te sa ob fr a si ru of th sa .
sa fr a si ru ar no in - pe , so to re th am of co be th sa th we ta at 12 - it in ( at it 12 , 12 , .
. , 12 ) .
ne , th sh le va th th tr in sa .
in bo ca , le ac is mo va th to ac , pr be th ar fa fe le it to av ov wi a si sa .
fi , ta 12 pr re fo th ap ma ev pr .
th pr is cl im , si if it we ab to id th tr ma so , th wo be no di in re ac mu ru of th al - ri .
in fa , co to th st sa pr - du , th is on sl le va in f1 sc , an gr va in pr . 12 ne , th ma ap do su in nd so wi si - ic hi pr .
th so al ha hi le ac , al to ac re lo .
th re th to ac is so lo wi th dp mo is th it of mi - an fr oc wo .
ma in of th wo oc in co co su as wh th an do yo , wh th sy - te in as a si wo .
th pa of er is ap in th bo sc : bo pr is ve hi , in th wh th sy pr a bo , it is al al co .
bo re is lo , in un .
we an th be of th sy mo ca by ex th se co an le .
a fu 12 of th pr le an ne 12 of to co of
12 th la st de in th pr of th ap ma so is du to a si ou .
th st de am th re ni so is 12 , we be th st de in th sa so , wh th ar no ou .
un ( co ) er , wh on 12 of ty an 12 of to ar ot no - wo .
( so ad - ti to er , un 12 , ar ca by pr a co wo in an in lo . ) ab 12 of co - ca ( bo ty an to ) ar co of tw wo , ne al th re ar th wo .
to il th ph , we pr th sy se of th rs 12 ut in th co in fi .
12 , an th 12 mo fr fo le it in fi .
th 12 mo fr co id as si wo by th sy ar sh in fi
it is in to ex th co li in fi .
12 wi re to th ex li on ch ea re of wo .
pe ( 12 ) , in pa , pr a nu of ex of ch un - me er ( us th pr as ev ) .
se of th fu se an so co in fi .
12 ( e . g . , th yo , th ri , by by , lo at th ) ar in am he ex .
in ad , so of th ot co er fo by ou un sy ma th ex of fo fr gi by pe : th ve in ca yo an no in it a , th is , th ar , an se th .
ph re in ad sp al su th a fe of th co fo by th sy ( e . g . , di yo , wh do yo ) ma ev be tr as si un by ad in so ci .
ho , th ex an va of co fo by th sy is ce mu br th wh re - er ha so fa fo ev fo in yo ch .
we wi de fo th mo an fu di of wh ch ea wo re ar si to th fo by ou dp mo ( we re to th is in th ge di ) , an in tu to th qu of wh th un ar fo .
th an se cl : gr of wo th fr co - oc vi th un - gr as in th mo , si th ex st wo - to - wo de .
th on wa th le ca ca th de is by as th th co ar in fa wo th .
as an ex , co th wo th .
in ou co , th em pr - bi of th wo th is 12 / 12 . 12
ho , th em pr of th fo th wo wh is fa hi : 12 / 12 . 12
si th st co be - tw wh an th vi th in as - ti of th mo , th le co th wh mu be a si wo .
no th by ch th va of th pa a1 an p# , it is po to re th le of un - ti , bu on sl , an at th co of in ot
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
th rs 12 ut in th co as se by th dp mo ( re or fo re ) , il th th mo un th co .
th st na of th gi sa pr is ap : so se , su as yo an ge , re tw
er .
fo ex , ra th va of p# to 12 st in th mo pr fo sh le it , bu co st ma up 12 of bo ty an to in th ca .
me of to ac in by a fe po , bu ar st we be th of pr sy .
th ma qu di be re wi p# : 12 an p# : 12 is th wi th hi va , in - qu wo ar mo li to be ov in ve sh on - or tw - ph ch ( re in a dr in le ac ) .
ho , fr wo st te to be un as be .
it is al wo no th , al th pr of co in th le fo by mb - 12 an ng - u is co to th pr fo by ou ow mo ( 12 ) , on 12 of to fo by th sy ar co - ca er .
th fa se to co ou an of th fa of ou ow un mo , an ra a nu - be of qu .
wh do th ot un mo ex th sa pr as ou ow ? is th so ot we in ou mo th mi be ca or co - po th pr wi un ? is it po - si to de a su un mo fo wo se ? we ad th qu in th fo -
ot un mo
mb - 12 an se
in th pr se , we sh th th op se un ou un mo is on th id - es co co as in wo .
ou ea
di of ve ( 12 ) ng mo de - st th th op so un th mo is a co un co .
wh ab br ( 12 ) mb - 12 mo ? wh th de of th un - gr mo ma it di to de wh th op - ma so is , ou ma co wa wh it ex th sa pr wi un as ou ow un mo .
th re pr by br do no in - ca un , bu it tu ou th th re , li ve , ar in by th ap se pr us .
we de th by ca th pr of va se of th co un - de ea mo , as sh in ta 12
th re in th th mb - 12 mo as hi pr to th so fo by ou gi sa th to th so fo by br ow in se al .
in ot wo , th mo un mb - 12 do fa th lo - ac co so , bu br ap se al nd a di so th ha hi ac bu lo pr un th
we pe tw si su th ou ow in pr do no su fr si pr .
fi , we in th gi sa in th di wa : wi no ut - in bo , wi a bo af ev ch , an wi ra bo - ar .
th re we vi th sa re of in - ti ( se ap a fo de ) .
se , we cr an ar co by ra pe al th wo in th tr co an ar th in ut wi th sa nu of wo as in th tr co .
th ma cr a co wh th un as -
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
re fo th po se pe on th na la co .
in pa , th un as of th mo se to be at fa .
in th fo - lo se we pr so ad si de - si to fu te th hy .
in th si , we ch th mo of le it us in st 12 of th mo , wh ha so fa as th le it ar cr - at by ch ph in at ra .
if th or po le mo is re fo th dp mo un of th co , th im th le mo sh im pe .
ho , if th pr is th th un as fa to ac - co fo se de in th co , th a be le mo wi no ma mu di .
th im of th le mo on wo se
on po im to th le mo is to re - pl th as of a un di ov ph - ne wi th mo re as th ph ha di pr of oc .
th as is mo in li wi th mb - 12 an ng mo .
in ng , ph pr ar es on ac to th em di in th co .
in mb - 12 , ph - ne pr ar al es on , bu ac to th em di in th cu le .
fo mo li mb - 12 an th dp mo , wh th ph - ne di is us to ge le it ra th wo to , th la ap ma mo se .
it is re st to ex th dp mo to in - fe th ph di in th le si wi in th le it .
be im th ex , ho , we tr si xi th ph di to th em di in th tr le - co .
th pr gi an up bo on th pe - ma th co be ex if th di we le .
we fo th th ch im le f1 so ( to 12 , wi a1 12 an p# : 12 ) , bu ma al - mo no di on to f1 ( 12 ) .
in of th ph - ne di wa th no im .
th 12 mo fr it in th le fo by th dp mo ( le ) an in th co le ( ri ) .
ex fo th ph z an s , le it ar re or fo re .
di po sp of a si ph fo ar se by sl .
th fr of ea le it is sh to it le .
it in th se le ar in as co ( + ) or in ( ) .
fr of co it in th se le ar lo th in th tr le be ma oc of th it ar ac fo by co .
ti is co .
if ou in pr wo pr , th un sy sh be ab to co id th wo in th pe co .
th is ex wh we fo , as sh in ta 12
th pe of th dp mo ju dr , an mo er oc on in wo ( as ev by th fa th to ac is mu hi th le ac ) .
in co - tr , mb - 12 an ng - u re a mu sm be fr th pe co , ag in th in
th re im th th dp mo it , ra th th gi sa pr we us fo in , is
ot ch co be ma to th le mo in or - de to cr a be mo of wo sh .
fo ex , us a bi or tr ph mo wo al th le to ac so no of ph .
ba th mo on sy ra th ph co in - po co on th pr of vo or sy we .
ra th te al th di po , we de a si to de an ap up bo on pe in th un dp mo .
in th si , we pr th mo wi in - ti th no in wo ac ha ac to : th se of wo ty th oc in th co se co - pu .
th le mo is de as fo :
pt 12 12
wh l is th tr se of le it in th da , an is so sm mi co .
in ot wo , th mo is a mi be a un di ov th tr le - ic it an th ba mo p1
if 12 , th mo is
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
th 12 mo fr oc it in th se le th co of mu wo fr th tr le .
th it ar al id as si wo th tr wo bo ha be in fo re .
th fr of ea it is sh to it le .
ne lo pr of va se un ea un
ac of th va sy on th pe co .
no : ro he id th mo us to ev ea se - ta .
co he id th di se : th tr se , th se wi no ut - in bo , an th se fo by ea sy .
ac lo pr ar 12 th sh .
co so th se ma on co wo fr th tr le .
if > 12 , a sm am of no is in so th ne le it ar po , bu ha mu lo pr th th tr le it .
if th mo st po co wh is ve sm , we ha ev th th un as , ra
no : p , r , an f ar pr , re , an f1 fo wo to bp , lp , et .
ar th co sc fo am bo an le it .
be sc ar sh in bo .
dp re ar wi p# : 12 an a1 12
th an fa in th le mo , is re fo
th re fr th mo ar sh in ta 12
no su , th le f1 sc in th mo ar ve hi , an th is a la im in to f1 sc ag pr mo .
ho , am of in pr to th mo , it sc ar st su lo , an co re a pr - le , es fo fr it .
go et al .
/ co 12 ( 12 ) 12
re of th dp mo us pt .
no : sh , fo ea va of , is to f1 ( f ) , le f1 ( lf ) , an th pe of to an le it th ar mu - wo co .
co th ca wh 12 yi so in - si in th pe of th mo wi im le mo .
th so fo , wi a le co - in of 12 co , ha hi pr th th tr so .
th is de th fa th th mo pr - bl in le it ar ab ve or of ma - tu le pr th th tr le in le it ar pr de th ex lo pr be on th rs oc of ea wo is ac fo by th le mo .
su oc ar ac fo by th pa of th mo th ge re wo , wh pr ar pr - ti to th nu of pr oc .
th , lo - pr le it in no pe ( be th of an ot wo ) af th rs oc .
th is wh th co re in th dp mo us pt ar th hi - fr co : ov ma oc , th pr ma ga by mo th co as si wo ou th ma lo in ge th
th re of th si su th th ma of co fo by th un dp mo ar no du to th we of th le mo .
re of ho go th le mo is , it wi no be ab to co ov th in of th un as go - er wo to wh mo th fu co .
in or - de to re th nu of co , it is ne to ac fo se de be wo .
be sh ho to do so , ho , we rs pr th re re th ge of ou co - si ab un mo .
mb - 12 , th dp mo , an ot un mo
th pr mo us in mb - 12 an ou di pr mo ap to qu di ge - ti pr .
to ge a co us mb , th nu - be of wo ty is sa , th th to fr , th th fo of th wo in th le , an na an or fo th se of to .
us th dp mo , th le of th co ( nu of wo to ) mu be ch -
12 th ar 12 le it in th co , so un th le mo , th pr of ea of th is ap 12
th ar 12 ph an p# : 12 , so a si - ch wo ha pr . 12 un p1
mu by th di fa 12 yi pt 12 fo on - ch wo no in th tr le .
lo in wo wi ha mu lo pr .
se , an th th se of wo is ge , im - it de th nu of wo ty an th le .
al th tw ap to ge a co ar ve di , it is po to sh th , by va th sp di as at ea st of th mb - 12 ge pr , th tw ap ca re in ex th sa di ov wo se - qu .
in ap b we sh th by ch ho th si of th le an th to fr ar ch - se in st 12 an 12 of th mb mo , we ca pr di ov wo th ar eq to th di - bu gi by th dp mo wh co on th to - ta nu of wo .
