how to gro a min : sta , str , and abs jos b .
ten
, 123 ( 123 ) ;
, et al .
thi cop is for you per , non - com use onl .
if you wis to dis thi art to oth col , cli , or cus by
, you can ord hig - qua cop for you
per to rep or rep art or por of art fol the gui
can be obt by
the fol res rel to thi art are ava onl at www . sci . org ( thi inf is cur as of
mar 123 , 123
upd inf and ser , ver of thi art at :
inc hig - res fig , can be fou in the onl
sup onl mat
can be fou at :
, 123 of whi can be acc fre :
cit 123 art
thi art app in the fol
( pri iss 123 - 123 onl iss 123 - 123 ) is pub wee , exc the las wee in dec , by the
ame ass for the adv of sci , 123 new yor ave nw , was , dc 123
123 by the ame ass for the adv of sci all rig res .
the tit reg tra of aaa .
how to gro a min : sta , str , and abs
jos b .
ten , 123 cha kem , 123 tho l .
gri , 123 noa d .
goo
in com to und the wor lea con , acq lan , and gra cau rel min mak inf tha app to go far bey the dat ava .
how do we do it ? thi rev des rec app to rev - eng hum lea and cog dev and , in par , eng mor hum mac lea sys .
com mod tha per pro inf ove hie of fle str rep can add som of the dee que abo the nat and ori of hum tho : how doe abs kno gui lea and rea fro spa dat ? wha for doe our kno tak , acr dif dom and tas ? and how is tha abs kno its acq ?
the cha : how doe the min get so muc fro so lit ?
for sci stu how hum com
to und the wor , the cen cha - len is thi : how do our min get so muc fro so lit ? we bui ric cau mod , mak str gen , and con pow - erf abs , whe the inp dat are spa , noi , and amb eve way far too lim .
a mas mis loo bet the inf com in thr our sen and the oup of cog .
con the sit of a chi lea the mea of wor .
any par kno , and sci - ent hav con ( 123 , 123 ) , tha typ 123 - yea - old can lea how to use a new wor suc as hor or hai fro see jus a few exa .
we kno the gra the mea , not jus the sou , bec the gen : the use the wor app ( if not alw per - fec ) in new sit .
vie as a com - tat on sen inp dat , thi is a rem fea .
wit the inf lan of all pos obj , the is an inf but sti hig con - str sub tha can be cal hor and ano for hai .
how doe a chi gra the bou of the sub fro see jus one or a few exa of eac ? adu fac the cha of lea ent nov obj con les oft , but the can be jus as goo at it ( fig .
gen fro spa dat is cen in lea man asp of lan , suc as syn - tac con or mor rul ( 123 ) .
it pre mos sta in cau lea : eve sta cla tea tha cor doe
123 of bra and cog sci , com sci - enc and art int lab ( csa ) , mas - chu ins of tec , 123 mas ave , cam , ma 123 , usa .
123 of psy , car mel uni , pit , pa 123 , usa .
123 - par of psy , uni of cal , ber , ber , ca 123 , usa .
123 of psy , sta - for uni , sta , ca 123 , usa .
*to who cor sho be add .
e - mai :
not imp cau , yet chi rou in - fer cau lin fro jus a han of eve ( 123 ) , far too sma a sam to com eve a rel - abl cor ! per the dee acc - men of cog dev is the con of lar - sca sys of kno : int the of phy , psy , or bio or rul sys for soc str or mor jud .
bui the sys tak yea , muc lon tha lea a sin new wor or con , but on thi sca too the fin pro of lea far out the dat obs ( 123 ) .
phi hav inq int the puz - zle for ove two tho yea , mos fam as the pro of ind , fro pla and ari thr hum , whe , and mil to car , qui , goo , and oth in the 123 cen ( 123 ) .
onl rec hav the que bec acc to sci and eng by vie ind lea as a spe of com - tat pro and the hum min as a nat - ura com evo for sol the .
the pro sol are , in bro str , jus wha phi sin pla hav sug - ges .
if the min goe bey the dat giv , ano sou of inf mus mak up the dif .
som mor abs bac kno mus gen and del the hyp - ses lea con , or mea gen - tio wou be imp ( 123 , 123 ) .
psy and lin spe of con mac lea - ing and art int res , ind - tiv bia sta , pri .
thi art rev rec mod of hum lea and cog dev ari at the int of the fie .
wha has com to be kno as the bay or pro app to rev - eng the min has bee hea inf by the eng suc of int and mac lea ove the pas two dec ( 123 , 123 ) and , in ret , has beg to ins mor pow and mor hum app to mac lea .
as wit con or neu net mod of cog ( 123 ) in the 123 ( the las
mom whe all the fie con on a com par for und the min ) , the lab bay or pro are mer - ly pla for a set of int pri and the cla .
the key ide can be tho of as pro for how to ans thr
123 ) how doe abs kno gui lea -
ing and inf fro spa dat ?
123 ) wha for doe abs kno tak ,
acr dif dom and tas ?
123 ) how is abs kno its acq ?
we wil ill the app wit a foc on two arc ind pro : lea con and lea cau rel .
we the bri dis ope cha for a the of hu - man cog dev and con wit a sum of the app con .
we wil als dra con wit two ear app to the ori of kno : nat and ass ( or con .
the ap - pro dif in whe the pro str or wea cap as the bas for ans the que abo .
bay mod typ com ric str , exp kno rep ( que 123 ) wit pow sta - tic inf eng ( que 123 and 123 ) , arg tha onl a syn of sop app to bot kno rep and ind inf can acc for hum int .
unt rec it was not und how thi fus cou wor com .
cog mod wer for to cho bet two alt ( 123 ) : pow sta lea ope ove the sim , uns for of kno , suc as mat of ass wei in con - tio acc of sem cog ( 123 , 123 ) , or ric str sym kno equ wit onl the sim , non for of lea , che for log inc bet hyp and obs dat , as in nat ac - cou of lan acq ( 123 ) .
it app nec to acc eit tha peo abs kno is not lea or ind in a non sen fro exp ( hen ess inn ) or tha hum kno is not nea as ab - str or str ( as kno - lik ) as it see ( hen sim ass ) .
man dev - opm res rej thi cho alt - get and pur les for app to des the gro min of chi , und the hea of con or the the the ( 123 ) .
the pot to exp how peo - ple can gen lea wit abs str kno may be the mos dis fea of bay mod : the big rea for the rec pop ( 123 ) and the big tar of ske fro the cri ( 123 ) .
the rol of abs kno ove the pas dec , man asp of hig - lev cog hav bee ill by the
www . sci . org sci vol 123
123 mar 123
mat of bay sta : our sen of sim ( 123 ) , rep ( 123 ) , and ran - dom ( 123 ) ; coi as a cue to hid cau ( 123 ) ; jud of cau str ( 123 ) and evi sup ( 123 ) ; dia and con - tio rea ( 123 , 123 ) ; and pre abo the fut of eve eve ( 123 ) .
the cla tha hum min lea and rea - son acc to bay pri is not a cla tha the min can imp any bay inf .
onl tho ind com tha the min is des to per wel , whe bio has had tim and cau to eng ef - fec and eff mec , are lik to
hum chi lea nam for obj con rou mak str gen fro jus a few exa .
the sam pro of rap gen can be stu in adu lea nam for nov obj cre wit com gra .
( a ) giv the ali obj and thr exa ( box in red ) of tuf ( a wor in the ali lan ) , whi oth obj are tuf ? alm eve sel jus the obj box in gra ( 123 ) .
( b ) lea nam for cat can be mod as bay inf ove a tre - str dom rep ( 123 ) .
obj are pla at the lea of the tre , and hyp abo cat tha wor cou lab cor to dif bra .
bra at dif dep pic out hyp at dif lev of gen ( e . g . , cly , dra hor , hor , ani , or liv thi ) .
pri are def on the bas of bra len , ref the dis of cat .
lik ass tha exa are dra ran fro the bra tha the wor lab , fav low bra tha cov the exa tig thi cap the sen of sus coi whe all exa of a wor clu in the sam par of the tre .
com pri and lik yie pos pro tha fav gen acr the low dis bra tha spa all the obs exa ( box in gra ) .
be und in bay ter .
in add to the gen cog abi jus men , bay ana hav she lig on man spe - cif cog cap and mod tha res fro rap , rel , unc pro , in - clu per ( 123 ) , lan ( 123 ) , mem ( 123 , 123 ) , and sen sys ( 123 ) .
in con , in tas tha req exp con man - lat of pro as num qua rec cul inv tha few peo bec flu wit , and onl the aft sop tra can be not bia awa fro bay nor ( 123 ) .
at hea , bay rul is sim a too for ans que 123 : how doe abs kno - edg gui inf fro inc dat ? abs kno is enc in a pro gen mod , a kin of men mod tha des the cau pro in the wor giv - ing ris to the lea obs as wel as uno or lat var tha sup ef - fec pre and act if the lea can inf the hid sta .
gen mod mus be pro to han the lea unc - ty abo the tru sta of lat var and the tru cau pro at wor .
a gen mod is abs in two sen : it des not onl the spe sit at han , but als a bro cla of sit ove whi lea sho gen , and it cap in par for the ess wor str tha cau lea obs and mak gen pos .
bay inf giv a rat fra for upd bel abo lat var in gen - era mod giv obs dat ( 123 , 123 ) .
bac kno is enc thr a con spa of hyp h abo pos - sib val for the lat var , can wor str tha cou exp the obs dat .
fin - gra kno com in the pri pro p ( h ) , the lea deg of bel in a spe hyp h pri to ( or ind of ) the obs .
bay rul upd pri to pos pro p ( h|d ) con on the obs dat d :
the pos pro is pro to the pro of the pri pro and the lik p ( d|h ) , mea how exp the dat are und hyp h , rel to all oth hyp h in h .
to ill bay rul in act , sup we obs joh cou ( d ) , and we con thr hyp as exp : joh has h12 , a col h12 , lun dis or h12 , hea .
int onl h12 see com .
bay rul exp why .
the lik fav h12 and h12 ove h12 : onl col and lun dis cau cou and thu ele the pro of the dat abo bas .
the pri , in con , fav h12 and h12 ove h12 : col and hea are muc mor com tha lun dis .
bay rul wei
123 mar 123 vol 123 sci www . sci . org
hyp acc to the pro of pri and lik and so yie onl exp lik h12 tha sco hig on bot ter .
the sam pri can exp how peo lea fro spa dat .
in con lea , the dat mig cor to sev exa ob - jec ( fig .
123 ) and the hyp to pos ex - ten of the con .
why , giv thr exa of dif kin of hor , wou a chi gen - era the wor hor to all and onl hor ( h12 ) ? why not h12 , all hor exc cly h12 , all ani or any oth rul con wit the dat ? lik fav the mor spe pat , h12 and h12 it wou be a hig sus - cio coi to dra thr ran exa - ple tha all fal wit the sma set h12 or h12 if the wer act dra fro the muc lar h12 ( 123 ) .
the pri fav h12 and h12 , bec as mor coh and dis cat , the are mor lik to be the ref of com wor in lan ( 123 ) .
onl h12 sco hig on bot ter .
lik , in cau lea , the dat cou be co - occ bet eve the hyp , pos cau rel lin the eve .
lik fav cau lin tha mak the co - occ mor pro , whe pri fav lin tha fit wit our bac kno of wha kin of eve are lik to cau whi oth for exa , a dis ( e . g . , col ) is mor lik to cau a sym ( e . g . , cou ) tha the oth way aro .
the for of abs kno abs kno pro ess con - str for lea , but in wha for ? thi is jus que 123
for com cog tas suc as con lea or cau rea , it is im - pos to sim lis eve log pos hy - pot alo wit its pri and lik .
som mor sop for of kno rep - sen mus und the pro gen - ati mod nee for bay cog .
in tra ass or con ap - pro , sta mod of lea wer de - fin ove lar num vec .
lea was see as est str in an ass mem - ory , wei in a neu net , or par of a hig - dim non fun ( 123 , 123 ) .
bay cog mod , in con , hav had mos suc def pro ove mor str sym for of kno rep - sen use in com sci and art int , suc as gra , gra , pre log , rel sch , and fun pro .
dif for of rep are use to cap - tur peo kno in dif dom and tas and at dif lev of abs .
in lea wor and con fro exa - ple , the kno tha gui bot chi and adu gen has bee wel de - scr usi pro mod def ove tre - str rep ( fig .
123 ) ( 123 , 123 ) .
rea abo oth bio con for nat kin ( e . g . , giv tha cow and rhi hav pro x in the mus , how lik is it
tha hor or squ do ? ) is als wel des by bay mod tha ass nea obj in the tre are lik to sha pro ( 123 ) .
how - eve , tre are by no mea a uni rep - tat .
inf abo oth kin of cat or pro are bes cap by usi pro - bil mod wit dif for ( fig .
123 ) : two - dim spa or gri for rea abo geo pro of cit , one - dim ord for rea abo val or abi , or dir net for cau tra pro - tie of spe ( e . g . , dis ) ( 123 ) .
kno abo cau and eff mor gen can be exp in a dir gra - ica mod ( 123 , 123 ) : a gra str whe nod rep var and dir edg bet nod rep pro cau lin .
in a med set , for ins ( fig .
123 ) , nod mig rep whe a pat has a col , a cou , a fev or oth con , and the pre - enc or abs of edg ind tha col ten to cau cou and fev but not che pai lun dis ten to cau cou and che pai but not fev and so on .
suc a cau map rep a sim kin of int the ( 123 ) , but lea cau net - wor fro lim dat dep on the con - str of mor abs kno .
for exa , lea cau dep bet med con is ena by a hig - lev fra the ( 123 ) spe two cla of var ( or nod ) , dis and sym , and the ten for cau rel ( or gra edg ) to run fro dis to sym , rat tha wit the cla or fro sym to dis ( fig .
123 , a to c ) .
thi abs fra can be rep - sen by usi pro mod def ove rel dat str suc as gra sch ( 123 , 123 ) , tem for gra bas on typ of nod , or pro gra gra ( 123 ) , sim in spi to the pro gra for str tha hav bec sta for rep lin - gui kno ( 123 ) .
at the mos abs lev - el , the ver con of cau its , in the sen of a dir rel tha sup int - tio or man by an ext age ( 123 ) , can be for as a set of log law exp - ing con on the str of dir gra rel act and obs eve ( fig .
eac of the for of kno mak dif kin of pri dis nat to def and the imp dif con on ind .
suc gen dep on get the con rig .
alt in - duc con are oft gra , it is eas to app the eff of qua con tha sim res the hyp lea can con ( i . e . , set pri for man log pos hyp to zer ) .
for ins , in lea con ove a dom of n obj , the are 123 sub and hen 123 log pos - sib hyp for the ext of a nov con .
ass con cor to the bra of a spe bin tre ove the ob - jec , as in fig .
123 , res thi spa to onl
n 123 hyp .
in lea a cau net ove 123 var , the are rou 123 log - ly pos hyp ( dir acy gra ) , but a fra the res hyp to bip dis - sym gra red thi to rou 123 hyp .
kno whi var - iab bel to the dis and sym cla fur res thi to rou 123 net .
the sma the hyp spa , the mor ac - cur a lea can be exp to gen , but onl as lon as the tru str to be lea rem wit or nea ( in a pro sen ) the lea hyp spa ( 123 ) .
it is no coi - cid the tha our bes acc of peo men rep oft res sim ver - sio of how sci rep the sam do - mai , suc as tre str for bio spe .
a com des tha app how the gra of the wor act run off the mos use for of con on ind lea .
the ori of abs kno the nee for abs kno and the nee to get it rig bri us to que 123 : how do lea lea wha the nee to kno to mak lea pos ? how doe a chi kno whi tre str is the rig way to org hyp - ses for wor lea ? at a dee lev , how can a lea kno tha a giv dom of ent and con sho be rep by usi a tre at all , as opp to a low - dim spa or som oth for ? or , in cau lea , how do peo com to cor fra the suc as kno of abs dis and sym - tom cla of var wit cau lin fro dis to sym ?
the acq of abs kno or new ind con is pri the pro of cog dev ( 123 , 123 ) .
for ins , chi lea wor ini ass a fla , mut exc div of obj int nam - abl clu onl lat do the dis tha cat - ego sho be org int tre - str hie ( fig .
123 ) ( 123 ) .
suc dis are als piv in sci pro : men lau mod che wit his pro of a per str for the ele .
lin fam pro tha rel bet bio spe are bes exp by a tre str , rat tha a sim lin ord ( pre eur gre cha of bei ) or som oth for .
ins hav lon bee vie by psy and phi of sci as dee mys in the mec - nis , mor mag tha com .
con - ven alg for uns str dis in sta and mac lea hie clu , pri com ana - ysi , mul sca , cli det ass a sin fix for of str ( 123 ) .
un - lik hum chi or sci , the can lea mul for of str or dis new for in nov dat .
nei tra ap - pro to cog dev has a ful sat res : nat hav ass tha ,
www . sci . org sci vol 123
123 mar 123
sal tro all
cha x cha
rin x cha
kem and ten ( 123 ) sho how the for of str in a dom can be dis by usi a hbm def ove gra gra - mar .
at the bot lev of the mod is a dat mat d of obj and the pro , or sim bet pai of obj .
eac squ of the mat rep whe a giv fea ( col ) is obs for a giv obj ( row ) .
one lev up is the str s , a gra of rel - tio bet obj tha des how the fea in d are dis .
int , obj nea in the gra are exp to sha sim fea val tec , the gra lap par the inv cov of a gau dis wit one dim per obj , and eac fea is dra ind fro tha dis - tri .
the hig lev of abs pri spe the for f of str in the dom , in ter of gra rul for gro a gra s of a con for out of an ini see nod .
red arr rep - sen p ( s|f ) and p ( d|s ) , the con - tio pro tha eac lev spe for the lev bel .
a sea alg att to fin bot the for f and the str s of tha for tha joi max the pos pro p ( s , f|d ) , a fun of the pro of p ( d|s ) and p ( s|f ) .
( a ) giv as dat the fea of ani , the alg fin a tre str wit int sen cat at mul - tip sca .
( b ) the sam alg dis tha the vot pat of u . s .
sup cou jud are bes exp by a lin lef - rig spe - tru .
( c ) sub sim amo col are bes exp by a cir - lar rin .
( d ) giv pro bet cit on the glo , the alg dis - cov a cyl rep ana to lat and lon : the cro pro of a rin and a rin .
( e ) giv ima of rea syn fac var in two di - men , rac and mas , the alg suc rec the un - der two - dim gri str - tur : a cro pro of two cha .
if dif dom of cog are rep in qua dif way , tho for mus be inn ( 123 , 123 ) ; con hav sug the rep may be lea but in a gen sys of ass wei tha at bes onl app tre , cau net , and oth for of str peo app to kno exp ( 123 ) .
rec cog mod hav beg to ans the cha by com the str - tur kno rep des abo wit sta - of - the - art too fro bay sta -
hie bay mod ( hbm ) ( 123 ) add the ori of hyp spa and pri by pos not jus a sin lev of hyp to exp the dat but mul lev : hyp - esi spa of hyp spa , wit pri on pri .
eac lev of a hbm gen a pro - bil dis on var at the lev bel .
bay inf acr all lev all hyp - ses and pri nee for a spe lea tas to the be lea at lar or lon tim sca , at the sam tim as the con low - lev lea -
in mac lea and art int ( ai ) , hbm hav pri bee use for tra lea : the acq of ind con fro exp in pre rel tas ( 123 ) .
tra lea is cri for hum as wel ( som tex and fig .
s12 and s12 ) , but her we foc on the rol of hbm in exp how peo acq the rig for of abs kno .
kem and ten ( 123 , 123 ) sho how hbm def ove gra - and gra - bas rep can dis the for of str
123 mar 123 vol 123 sci www . sci . org
' dis e a s e s ' ' s y m
123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
n = 123
n = 123
n = 123
n = 123
hbm def ove gra sch can exp how int the are acq and use to lea abo spe cau rel fro lim dat ( 123 ) .
( a ) a sim med rea dom mig be des by rel amo 123 var : the fir six enc pre or abs of dis ( top row ) , wit cau lin to the nex 123 sym ( bot row ) .
thi net can als be vis as a mat ( top rig , lin sho in bla ) .
the cau lea tas is to rec thi net bas on obs dat d on the sta of the 123 var in a set of pat .
( b ) a two - lev hbm for bot - up cau lea or lea wit an uni pri on net .
the bot lev is the dat mat d .
the sec lev ( str ) enc hyp cau net : a gra mat vis the pos pro tha eac pai cau lin exi , con on obs n pat com thi mat wit the bla - and - whi gro tru mat sho in ( a ) .
the tru cau net can be rec per onl fro obs ver man pat ( n = 123 not sho ) .
wit n = 123 , spu lin ( gra squ ) are inf , and wit n = 123 alm non of the tru str is det .
( c ) a thr - lev non hbm ( 123 ) add a lev of abs pri , rep by a gra sch .
the sch enc a pri on the lev bel ( cau net str ) tha con and the acc cau lea .
bot sch and net str are lea fro the sam dat obs in ( b )
sch dis the dis - sym fra the by ass var - iab 123 to 123 to cla c12 , var 123 to 123 to cla c12 , and a pri fav onl c12 c12 lin .
the ass , alo wit the eff num of cla ( her , two ) , are inf aut via the bay occ ' s raz .
alt thi thr - lev mod has man mor deg of fre tha the mod in ( b ) , lea is fas and mor acc .
wit n = 123 pat , the cau net is ide nea per .
eve n = 123 pat are suf to lea the hig - lev c12 c12 sch and the to lim unc at the net lev to jus the que of whi dis cau whi sym .
( d ) a hbm for lea an abs the of cau ( 123 ) .
at the hig lev are law exp in fir - ord log rep the abs pro of cau rel , the rol of exo int in def the dir of cau , and fea tha may mar an eve as an exo int .
the law pla con on pos dir gra mod at the lev bel , whi in tur are use to exp pat of obs eve ove var .
giv obs eve fro sev dif cau sys , eac enc in a dis dat mat , and a hyp spa of pos law at the hig lev , the mod con qui on a cor the of int - bas cau and use tha the to con inf abo the spe cau net und the dif sys at the lev bel .
gov sim in a dom .
str of dif for , clu , spa , rin , ord , and so onc all be rep as gra , whe the abs pri und - lyi eac for are exp as sim gra - mat rul for gro gra of tha for .
emb in a hie bay fra - wor , thi app can dis the cor for of str ( the gra ) for man rea - wor dom , alo wit the bes str -
tur ( the gra ) of the app for ( fig .
in par , it can inf tha a hie org for the nov obj in fig .
123 ( suc as fig .
123 ) bet fit the sim peo - ple see in the obj , com to alt rep suc as a two - dim spa .
hie bay mod can als be use to lea abs cau kno , suc as the fra the of dis and sym - tom ( fig .
123 ) , and oth sim for of int -
tiv the ( 123 ) .
man et al .
( 123 ) sho how a gra sch rep two cla of var , dis and sym , and a pre - ere for cau lin run fro dis to sym var can be lea fro the sam dat tha sup lea cau lin be - twe spe dis and sym and be lea jus as fas or fas ( fig .
123 , b and c ) .
the lea sch in tur dra acc - era lea of spe cau rel ( the
www . sci . org sci vol 123
123 mar 123
dir gra str ) at the lev bel .
get the big pic fir tha dis cau sym bef pin dow any spe dis - sym lin the us - ing tha fra to fil in the gap of spe kno is a dis hum mod of lea - ing .
it fig pro in chi dev - men and sci pro but has not pre fit int the lan of rat or sta lea -
alt thi hbm imp str and val con on the hyp spa of cau net , it is als ext fle : it can dis fra the def by any num of var cla and any pat of pai reg on how var in the cla ten to be con .
not eve the num of var cla ( two for the dis - sym the ) nee be kno in adv .
thi is ena by ano sta - of - the - art bay too , kno as inf or non hie - arc mod .
the mod pos an un - bou amo of str , but onl fin man deg of fre are act eng for a giv dat set ( 123 ) .
an aut occ raz emb in bay inf tra off mod com and fit to ens tha new str ( in thi cas , a new cla of var ) is int onl whe the dat tru req it .
the spe non dis on nod cla in fig .
123 is a chi res pro ( crp ) , whi has bee par in - flu in rec mac lea and cog - tiv mod .
crp mod hav giv the fir pri acc of how peo for new cat wit dir sup ( 123 , 123 ) : as eac sti is obs , crp mod ( gui by the bay occ raz ) inf whe tha obj is bes exp by ass to an exi cat or by pos a pre uns cat ( fig .
the cro mod - el ext crp to car dom of obj and the pro int dif sub or vie , sub of pro tha can all be exp by a dis way of org the obj ( 123 ) ( fig .
crp can be emb in pro mod for lan to exp how chi dis wor in uns spe ( 123 ) , lea mor rul ( 123 ) , and org wor mea int hie sem net ( 123 , 123 ) ( fig .
a rel but nov non con , the ind buf pro ( ibp ) , exp how new per - tua fea can be con dur obj cat ( 123 , 123 ) .
mor gen , non hie mod add the pri cha hum lea fac as kno gro ove a lif - tim : bal con and fle , or the nee to res hyp ava for gen - ali at any mom wit the cap to exp one hyp spa , to lea new way tha the wor cou wor .
pla non - par dis at hig lev of the hbm yie fle ind bia for low
lev , whe the bay occ raz en - sur the pro bal of con and fle - ibi as kno gro .
acr sev cas stu of lea abs kno str for , cau - al fra the , and oth ind con - str acq thr tra lea has bee fou tha abs in hbm can be lea rem fas fro rel lit dat com wit wha is nee for lea at low lev .
thi is bec eac deg of fre at a hig lev of the hbm inf and poo evi fro man var at lev - els bel .
we cal thi pro of hbm the ble of abs .
it off a top - dow rou to the ori of kno tha con sha wit the two cla app : nat - ism ( 123 , 123 ) , in whi abs con are as - sum to be pre fro bir , and emp or ass ( 123 ) , in whi abs are con but onl app , and onl slo in a bot - up fas , by lay man exp on top of eac oth and fil out the com ele .
onl hbm thu see sui to exp the two mos str fea of abs kno in hum : tha it can be lea fro exp , and tha it can be eng rem ear in lif , ser to con mor spe lea tas .
hbm may ans som que abo the ori of kno , but the sti lea us won : how doe it all sta ? dev - tal hav arg tha not eve can be lea , tha lea can onl get off the gro wit som inn sto of abs con suc as age , obj , and cau to pro the bas ont for car up exp ( 123 , 123 ) .
sur som asp of men rep are inn , but wit dis thi bay mod hav rec arg tha eve the mos abs con may in pri be lea .
for ins , an abs con of cau exp as log con on the str of dir gra can be lea fro exp in a hbm tha gen acr the net str of man spe cau sys ( fig .
fol the ble of abs , the con can be ind fro onl sma sam of eac net beh and in tur ena mor ef - fic cau lea for new sys ( 123 ) .
how thi ana ext to oth abs con suc as age or obj and whe chi ac - tua acq the con in suc a man re - mai ope que .
alt hbm hav add the acq - sit of sim for of abs kno , the hav onl tou on the har sub of cog dev : fra the for cor com - sen dom suc as int - tiv phy , psy , and bio ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
fir ste hav com in exp dev - ing the of min , how chi com to und exp fal bel ( 123 ) and in -
