a tut int to bay mod of
sch of psy , uni of ade
jos b .
ten
bra and cog sci , mas ins of tec
tho l .
gri
dep of psy , uni of cal , ber
rep doc pag
omb no .
123 - 123
pub rep bur for the col of inf is est to ave 123 hou per res , inc the tim for rev ins , sea exi dat sou , gat and mai the dat nee , and com and rev the col of inf .
sen com reg thi bur est or any oth asp of thi col of inf , inc sug for red thi bur , to was hea ser , dir for inf ope and rep , 123 jef dav hig , sui 123 , arl va 123 - 123
res sho be awa tha not any oth pro of law , no per sha be sub to a pen for fai to com wit a col of inf if it doe not dis a cur val omb con num .
rep dat
rep typ
tit and sub a tut int to bay mod of cog dev
per org nam ( s ) and add ( es ) mas ins of tec , bra and cog
dat cov 123 - 123 - 123 to 123 - 123 - 123
con num 123 .
gra num 123 .
pro ele num 123 .
pro num 123 .
tas num 123 .
wor uni num
per org
spo / mon age nam ( s ) and add ( es )
spo / mon acr ( s )
spo / mon rep
dis / ava sta app for pub rel dis unl
sup not
we pre an int to bay inf as it is use in pro mod of cog dev .
our goa is to pro an int and acc gui to the wha , the how , and the why of the bay app : wha sor of pro and dat the fra is mos rel for , and how and why it may be use for dev .
we emp a qua und of bay inf , but als inc inf abo add res for tho int in the cog sci app , mat fou or mac lea det in mor dep .
in add , we dis som imp int iss tha oft ari whe eva bay mod in cog
sub ter 123
sec cla of :
thi pag
lim of
nam of
sta for 123 ( rev .
123 - 123 ) pre by ans std z12 - 123
we pre an int to bay inf as it is use in pro
mod of cog dev .
our goa is to pro an int and acc
gui to the wha , the how , and the why of the bay app : wha sor
of pro and dat the fra is mos rel for , and how and why it
may be use for dev .
we emp a qua und
of bay inf , but als inc inf abo add res for
tho int in the cog sci app , mat fou ,
or mac lea det in mor dep .
in add , we dis som imp
int iss tha oft ari whe eva bay mod in cog
key : bay mod cog dev
one of the cen que of cog dev is how we lea so muc fro suc
app lim evi .
in lea abo cau rel , rea abo obj
cat or the pro , acq lan , or con int the ,
chi rou dra inf tha go bey the dat the obs .
pro
mod pro a gen - pur com fra for exp how a lea
mig mak the ind lea , exp the as for of bay inf .
thi pap pre a tut ove of the bay fra for stu
cog dev .
our goa is to pro an int and acc gui to
the wha , the how , and the why of the bay app : wha sor of pro
and dat the fra is mos rel for , and how and why it may be use for
dev .
we con thr gen ind pro tha lea fac ,
eac gro in spe dev cha :
ind gen fro exa , wit a foc on lea the ref of
wor for obj cat .
acq ind con , tun and sha pri kno fro exp -
rie , wit a foc on lea to lea cat .
lea ind fra , con or sel app hyp
spa for ind gen , wit app to acq int the -
rie of min and inf hie phr str in lan .
we als dis sev gen iss as the bea on the use of bay mod :
ass abo opt , bio pla , and wha ide mod can tel
us abo act hum min .
the pap end wit an app con a glo
and a col of use res for tho int in lea mor .
123 bay bas :
ind gen fro
the mos bas que the bay fra add is how to upd bel and
mak inf in lig of obs dat .
in the spi of mar ( 123 ) com -
lev of ana , it beg wit und the log of the inf mad whe
gen fro exa , rat tha the alg ste or spe cog pro -
ces inv .
a cen ass is tha deg of bel can be rep as
pro : tha our con in som hyp h can be exp as a rea num -
ber ran fro 123 to 123 , whe 123 mea som lik h is com fal and 123
tha h is com tru .
the fra als ass tha lea rep pro -
abi dis and tha the use the pro to rep unc in
inf .
the ass tur the mat of pro the int an eng
of inf , a mea of wei eac of a set of mut exc and exh hyp h to det whi bes exp the obs dat .
pro the
tel us how to com the deg of bel in som hyp hi , giv som dat d .
com deg of bel as pro dep on two com
cal the pri pro and den p ( hi ) , cap how muc we bel in hi pri to obs the dat d .
the oth , cal the lik and den p ( d|h ) ,
cap the pro wit whi we wou exp to obs the dat d if hi wer
the com to yie the pos pro of hi , giv via bay rul :
p ( hi| ) =
p ( d|h ) p ( hi ) hjh p ( d|h ) p ( hj )
as we wil see , the pro of pri and lik oft has an int int .
it bal bet a sen of pla bas on bac kno on one han
and the dat - dri sen of a sus coi on the oth .
in the spi
of ock raz , it exp the tra bet the int com of an
exp and how wel it ts the obs dat .
the den in equ 123 pro a nor ter whi is the sum of
the pro of eac of the pos hyp und con thi ens tha
bay rul wil ree the pro of all of the pro tha is ass to any
sin hyp hi , and ( rel ) tha the pos pro of all hyp
sum to one .
thi cap wha we mig cal the law of con of bel : a
rat lea has a xed mas of bel to all ove die hyp , and the
act of obs dat jus pus thi mas aro to die reg of the hyp
if the dat lea us to str bel one hyp , we mus dec our
deg of bel in all oth hyp .
by con , if the dat str dis all
but one hyp , the ( to par she hol ) whi rem , how
imp a pri , is ver lik to be the tru .
to ill how bay rul wor in pra , let us con a sim app
wit thr hyp .
ima you see you fri sal cou .
wha cou exp
thi ? one pos ( cal it hco ) is tha sal has a col ano ( cal it hca is
tha she has lun can and yet ano ( cal it hhe ) is tha she has hea .
int , in mos con , hco see by far the mos pro , and may eve be the
onl one tha com to min con .
why ? the lik fav hco and hca
ove hhe , sin col and lun can cau cou , whi hea doe not .
the pri , how , fav hco and hhe ove hca : lun can is tha rar ,
whi col and hea are com .
thu the pos pro the pro
of the two ter is hig onl for hco .
the int her sho be fai cle , but to ill pre how bay
rul can be use to bac the up , it can be hel to ass num . 123 let us set
the pri as fol : p ( hco ) = 123 , p ( hhe ) = 123 , and p ( hca ) = 123
cap the int tha col are sli mor com tha hea , but bot are
123 tha we hav ass tha the are the onl pos hyp , and tha exa one app .
tha is why the pri are muc hig tha the bas rat of the dis .
in a rea set , the wou be man mor dis und con , and eac wou hav muc low pri pro .
the wou als not be mut exc .
add suc det wou mak the mat mor com but not cha any els , so for cla of exp we con onl the
sig mor com tha can .
we can set our lik to be the fol : p ( d|h ) = 123 , p ( d|h ) = 123 , and p ( d|h ) = 123 .
thi cap the
int tha bot col and can ten to lea to cou , and hea gen
doe not .
plu thi int bay rul giv :
p ( hco ) =
p ( d|h ) p ( hco ) + p ( d|h ) p ( hca ) + p ( d|h ) p ( hhe )
p ( d|h ) p ( hco )
( 123 ) ( 123 ) + ( 123 ) ( 123 ) + ( 123 ) ( 123 )
123 + 123 + 123
thu , the pro tha sal is cou bec she has a col is muc hig tha
the pro of eit of the oth two hyp we con .
of cou , the
inf cou cha wit die dat or in a die con .
for ins , if the
dat als inc cou up blo , che pai , and sho of bre , you mig
sta to con lun can as a rea pos : the lik now exp tha dat
bet tha a col wou , whi beg to bal the low pri pro of can
in the rst pla .
on the oth han , if you had oth inf abo sal e . g . ,
tha she had bee smo two pac of cig per day for 123 yea the it mig
rai the pri pro of lun can in her cas .
bay rul wil res to the
cha in the lik or the pri in a way tha acc wit our int rea .
the bay fra is gen , mea tha obs dat are ass
to be gen by som und pro or mec res for cre the
in the exa abo , dat ( sym ) are gen by an und ill .
mor cog , wor in a lan may be gen by a gra of som sor , in
com wit soc and pra fac .
in a phy sys , obs eve
may be gen by som und net of cau rel .
the job of the lea
is to eva die hyp abo the und nat of the gen pro ,
and to mak pre bas on the mos lik one .
a pro mod is sim
a spe of the gen pro at wor , ide the ste ( and ass
pro ) inv in gen dat .
bot pri and lik are typ
des in gen ter .
to ill how the nat of the gen pro can aec a lea inf ,
con ano exa , als inv ill .
sup you obs tha 123 of the
peo aro you are cou .
is thi a sig tha a new vir is goi aro ? you
inf wil dep on how tho dat wer gen in thi cas , whe it is a
ran sam ( com , say , of peo tha you saw on pub tra ) or a non -
ran one ( com of peo you see sit in the wai roo at the doc
the dat are the sam 123 of peo are cou reg of how it was
gen , but the inf are ver die : you are mor lik to con tha
a new vir is goi aro if you see 123 of peo on the bus cou .
a doc
oce ful of cou peo mea lit abo whe a new vir is goi aro ,
sin doc oce are nev ful of hea peo .
how can the log of bay inf , ill her wit the med exa -
ple , app to pro lik wor and con lea , the acq of lan ,
or lea abo cau or int the ? in the cas , the is oft a hug
spa of hyp ( pos an inn one ) .
it may not be cle how the mod in
que sho be int gen , sin the see to del set ( e . g . , the
set of ins in a con , the set of gra sen , or the set of phe
exp by a the ) .
her we ill how bay inf wor mor gen
in the con of a sim sch exa .
we wil bui on thi exa thr
the pap , and see how it app and ree pro of cog int .
our sim exa , sho gra in fig 123 , use dot to rep ind
dat poi ( e . g . , wor or eve ) gen ind fro som unk pro
( e . g . , a lan or a cau net ) tha we dep in ter of a reg or sub of
spa : the pro gen dat poi ran wit its reg , nev out .
jus as eac of the hyp in the med exa abo ( i . e . , col , hea ,
or can ) are ass wit die dat ( i . e . , sym ) , eac hyp her
fig 123 : ( i ) exa dat and hyp .
gra rep of dat and one pos hyp abo how tho dat wer gen .
the are thr hyp her , eac cor to a sin rec .
the bla dat poi can onl be gen by the sol or the das rec .
a new dat poi in pos a mig be gen if the das rec is cor , but not the sol or dot one .
( ii ) som hyp in the hyp spa for thi exa .
hyp con of rec som are wel - sup by the dat and som are not .
enc a die ide abo whi sub of spa the dat are dra fro .
fig
123 ( i ) dep thr pos hyp , eac con of a sin rec in the spa :
hso cor to the sol lin , hda to the das lin , and hdo to the dot
bef see dat , a lea mig hav cer bel abo whi hyp is
mos lik per the bel tha all are equ lik , or the hav a bia to pre
sma or lar rec .
the pri bel , wha the are , wou be cap
in the pri pro of eac hyp : p ( hso ) , p ( hda ) , and p ( hdo )
die hyp als yie die pre abo wha dat one wou exp
to see in fig 123 ( i ) , the dat are con wit hso and hda , but not hdo ,
sin som of the poi are not wit the dot rec .
thi wou be ree in the lik p ( d|h ) and p ( d|h ) wou bot be non - zer , but p ( d|h )
wou be zer .
bay inf can als yie pre abo abo uno
for ins , one wou onl obs new dat at pos a if hda is cor , sin p ( a|h ) = 123 , but p ( a|h ) > 123
in thi sen , inf the hyp mos
lik to hav gen the obs dat gui the lea in gen bey
the dat to new sit .
the hyp spa h can be tho of as the set of all pos hyp ,
den by the str of the pro tha the lea can ent .
fig 123 ( ii )
sho a pos hyp spa for our exa , con of all pos rec
in thi spa .
not tha thi hyp spa is inn in siz , alt jus a few
rep hyp are sho .
the hyp spa is den by the nat of the lea pro , and thu
pro to the lea a pri .
for ins , in our exa , the hyp spa
wou be con by the ran of pos val for the low cor ( x and y ) ,
len ( l ) , and wid ( w ) of rec reg .
suc con nee not be ver
str or ver lim : for ins , one mig sim spe tha the ran of pos
val for x , y , l , and w lie bet 123 and som ext lar num lik 123 , or
be dra fro a pro dis wit a ver lon tai .
in thi sen , the pri
pro of a hyp p ( hi ) is als giv by a pro gen pro
a pro ope one lev up fro the pro ind by eac hyp tha
gen the obs dat poi .
we wil see bel how the hyp spa and
pri nee not be bui in , but can be con or mod fro exp .
in our exa the hyp spa has a ver sim str , but bec a
bay mod can be den for any wel - spe gen fra , inf
can ope ove any rep tha can be spe by a gen pro
inc , amo oth pos , pro dis in a spa ( app
for pho as clu in pho spa ) ; dir gra mod ( app
for cau rea ) ; abs str inc tax ( app for som
asp of con str ) ; obj as set of fea ( app for cat -
riz and obj und ) ; wor fre cou ( con for som typ
of sem rep ) ; gra ( app for syn ) ; arg str
fra ( app for ver kno ) ; mar mod ( app for act pla -
nin or par - of - spe tag ) ; and eve log rul ( app for som asp of
con kno ) .
the app con a det lis of pap tha use the
and oth rep .
the rep exi of bay mod all us to mov bey som
of the tra dic tha hav sha dec of res in cog de -
vel : str kno vs .
pro lea ( but not bot ) , or inn
str kno vs .
lea uns kno ( but not the pos of
kno tha is bot lea and str ) .
as a res of thi exi , tra -
tio cri of con tha foc on the ina to ade cap
com and sys ( e . g . , fod & pyl , 123 ) do not app to
bay mod .
in fac , the are sev rec exa of bay mod tha
emb lan - lik or com rep in dom ran fro cau
ind ( gri & ten , 123 ) to gra lea ( per , ten ,
& reg , sub ) to the acq ( kem , ten , niy , & gri ,
123 a cas stu : lea nam for obj cat
to ill mor con how thi bas bay ana of ind gen
app in cog dev , con the tas a chi fac in lea nam for
obj cat .
thi is a cla ins of the pro of ind in cog
dev , as man aut hav obs .
eve an app sim wor lik
dog can ref to a pot inn num of hyp , inc all dog , all
lab , all mam , all ani , all pet , all fou - leg cre , all dog exc
chi , all thi wit fur , all run thi , etc .
des the she num of
pos ext of the wor , you chi are sur ade at acq the
mea of wor eve whe the are onl a few exa , and eve whe the is
no sys neg evi ( mar , 123 blo , 123 ) .
how do chi lea wor mea so wel , so qui ? one sug is tha in -
fan are bor equ wit str pri kno abo wha sor of wor mea
are nat ( car , 123 mar , 123 ) , whi con the pos hyp
con .
for ins , eve if a chi is abl to rul out par - obj as pos
fig 123 : sch vie of hyp abo pos ext con by the lea in xu & ten ( 123 ) ; bec the tax is hie , the hyp - ses are nes wit eac oth .
fig rep fro xu & ten ( 123 ) .
ext , she can kno wha lev of a tax the wor app : whe dog
act ref to dog , mam , lab , can , or liv bei .
one sol
wou be to add ano con the pre tha cou nou map pre -
tia to the bas lev in a tax ( ros , mer , gra , joh , & boy - bra ,
thi pre wou all chi to lea nam for bas - lev cat ,
but wou be cou for eve oth kin of wor .
xu and ten ( 123 ) pre a bay mod of wor lea tha oer
a pre acc of how lea cou mak mea gen fro one or a
few exa of a nov wor .
thi pro can be sch dep as in fig
123 : for con tha are org in a hie tax , lab exa are
con wit mul die ext .
for ins , a sin lab lab
cou pic out onl lab , but it cou als pic out dog , ani , or liv thi .
thi pro is fac by a chi who , sho one or man obj wit a giv lab ,
mus dec whi hyp abo pos ext of the lab is bes .
int ,
fig 123 : lea obj wor .
( i ) hyp spa tha is con sim to tha in fig 123 , now dep as a two - dim dot dia hyp wit hig pro are dar rec .
wit one dat poi , man hyp hav som sup .
( ii ) wit thr exa , the mos res hyp is muc mor
we wou exp tha whe giv one obj , a rea lea sho not str
pre any of the hyp tha inc it , tho the mor res one mig be
sli fav .
if the lea wer sho thr exa , we wou exp the mos
clo - tti hyp to be muc mor str pre .
for ins , giv one
lab as an exa of a fep , it is unc whe fep ref to lab ,
dog , mam , or ani .
but if giv thr lab as the rst thr exa of
fep , it wou be qui sur a hig sus coi if fep in fac
ref to a muc mor gen cla suc as all dog .
the sam pro is dep mor abs in the dot dia in fig 123
per hyp ( e . g . , ani ) are rep as lar rec .
som
the ful enc sma rec ( cor to mor sub hyp ) ,
jus as the ext of ani inc all lab .
som the can als cro -
cut eac oth , jus as the ext of pet inc man ( but not all ) lab .
the sma rec rep hyp wit sma ext , and we can use
thi to und how bay rea cap the not of a sus coi -
cid , exp the ten to inc fav the sma hyp tha is
con wit the dat as the num of dat poi inc .
thi abi eme due to the lik p ( d|h ) , the pro of obs the
dat d ass hyp h is tru .
in gen , mor res hyp , cor -
spo to sma reg in the dat spa , rec mor lik for a giv pie
if a sma hyp is the cor ext of a wor , the it is not too
sur tha the exa occ whe the do; a lar hyp cou be con -
ten wit the sam dat poi , but exp les wel exa why the dat fal whe
the do .
the mor dat poi we obs fal in the sam sma reg , the mor
of a sus coi it wou be if in fac the wor ext cor to
a muc lar reg .
mor for , if we ass tha dat are sam uni at ran fro all
cas con wit the con , the the pro of any sin dat poi d con -
sis wit h is inv pro to the siz of the reg h pic out cal thi
the siz of h .
thi is why whe the is one dat poi , as in fig 123 ( i ) , the is a
sli pre for the mos res ( sma ) hyp how , the pre
is onl sli , bec it cou sti eas hav bee gen by any of the hyp -
ses tha inc it .
but if mul dat poi are gen ind fro the
con , as in fig 123 ( ii ) , the lik of h wit n con exa is inv
pro to the siz of h , rai to the nth pow .
thu the pre for sma
con hyp ove lar hyp inc exp wit the num
of exa , and the mos res con hyp is str fav
ass is oft ref to as the siz pri ( ten & gri , 123 ) .
the mat beh the siz pri is bes und con if we thi abo
the hyp as dis sub of pos obj we mig obs , suc as bag
of col mar , rat tha as con reg suc as rec reg in a
two - dim spa .
sup bag a con two mar ( a red and a gre ) and
bag b con thr ( a red , a gre , and a yel ) .
the pro of pul the red
mar out of bag a is 123
123 = 123 , sin the are two pos mar to cho fro .
the pro of pul the red mar out of bag b is 123
123 = 123 for sim rea .
thu , if you kno onl tha a red mar has bee pul out of a bag ( but not whi
bag it is ) , you mig hav a wea bia to thi tha it was pul out of bag a , whi
123 = 123 tim as lik as bag b .
now sup tha som dra out the fol ser of mar , sha the
bag ful bet eac dra : red , gre , red , gre .
at thi poi mos peo wou
be mor cer tha the bag is a .
the siz pri exp why .
if the pro
of pul one red ( or gre ) mar fro bag a is 123
123 , the pro of pul tha
spe ser of mar is 123
123 = 123
123 = 123 , sin eac dra is
ind .
by con , the pro of dra tho mar fro bag b is
123 = 123
123 = 123 .
thi mea tha bag a is now 123
123 = 123 tim
as lik as b .
in ess , the sli pre for the sma bag is mag ove
man dra , sin it bec an inc unl coi for onl red or gre
mar to be dra if the is als a yel one in the .
thi can be mag if
the num of obs inc sti fur ( e . g . , con obs a seq
of red , gre , red , gre , gre , gre , red , gre , red , red , gre ) or the rel siz
of the bag cha ( e . g . , sup the obs are sti red , gre , red , gre , but
tha the lar bag con six mar , eac of a die col , rat tha thr ) .
in eit cas bag a is now pre to bag b by ove a fac of 123 , and the is lit
dou tha the mar wer dra fro bag a .
in a sim way , a sma hyp
mak mor pre pre thu , if the dat are con wit tho pre ,
the the sma hyp is fav .
the siz pri exp how it is pos to mak str inf bas on ver
few exa .
it als cap the not of a sus coi : as the num
of exa inc , hyp tha mak spe pre tho wit mor
exp pow ten to be fav ove tho tha are mor vag .
thi pro
a nat sol to the no neg evi pro : dec amo hyp
giv pos - onl exa .
as the siz of the dat set app inn , a bay
lea rej lar or mor ove hyp in fav of mor pre one
lim amo of dat , the bay app can mak mor sub pre , as
the gra siz - bas lik tra o aga the pre for sim in the
the lik in bay lea can thu be see as a pri qua
mea of the wei of imp neg evi one tha exp bot how and
whe ove sho occ .
the res of xu and ten ( 123 ) ree thi ide .
adu and 123 - and
123 - yea - old chi wer pre wit 123 obj dis acr thr die
sup cat ( ani , veg , and veh ) , inc man bas - lev
and sub - lev cat wit tho .
sub wer the sho eit one or
thr lab exa of a nov wor suc as fep , and wer ask to pic out the
oth fep fro the set of obj .
bot chi and adu res die
dep on how man exa the wer giv .
jus as in fig 123 , wit one
exa , peo and the mod bot sho gra gen fro sub
to sup mat .
by con , whe giv thr exa , gen
bec muc sha and wer usu lim to the mos res lev .
thi als ill how ass abo the nat of the gen pro
aec the typ of inf tha can be mad .
we hav see tha peo ten sho
res gen on the bas of thr exa how , thi onl if the
thi the exp was cho tho exa sen ( i . e . , as exa of the
con ) .
if peo thi the dat wer gen in som oth way for ins , an -
oth lea was ask abo tho par pic the the inf cha
( xu & ten , 123 ) .
in thi cas , the lac of non - lab no lon ree
som the exp can con tho it is a coi , it is not a sus -
cio one .
the dat are the sam , but the inf cha as the gen pro
und the dat cha .
in oth wor , the siz pri app in jus tho
cas whe the gen pro is suc tha dat are gen fro the con
( or , mor gen , hyp ) its .
so far we hav ill how bay inf can cap gen fro
jus a few exa , the sim lea of ove ext , and the use
of imp neg evi .
all of the are imp , but it is als tru tha we
hav bui in a gre dea , inc a res and wel - spe hyp spa .
ver oft , hum lea mus not mak rea spe gen wit a
set hyp spa , the als muc be abl to mak gen abo wha sor
of gen are rea .
we see an exa of thi in the nex sec .
123 acq ind con
one of the imp of cla pro of ind is the nee for gen
abo gen , or ind con , of som sor .
the cor pro is how
ind is jus bas on a nit sam of any kin of dat , and the ine
con is tha the mus be som kin of con tha ena lea to occ .
nea eve dom stu by cog sci yie evi tha chi rel
on hig - lev ind con .
chi lea wor pre to app the
to who obj rat tha par ( mar , 123 ) .
bab bel tha age are
dis fro obj in tha the can mov wit con ( spe , phi , & woo -
war , 123 ) and act in cer way in res to goa ( woo , 123 ger &
csi , 123 ) .
con wit evi tha chi beh is res in pre -
dic way , the nat res is to hyp the exi of inn con ,
inc the who obj con ( mar , 123 ) cor sys of obj rep -
sen , psy , phy , and bio ( car & spe , 123 spe & kin ,
123 car , 123 ) , and so on .
giv tha the app so ear in dev , it
see sen to pos tha the con are inn rat tha lea .
how , it may be pos for ind con to be lea , at lea in som
for ins , con the pro of lea tha som fea mat for
cat new obj whi oth sho be ign ( e . g . , nos , 123 ) .
acq -
ing hig - lev abs kno wou ena one to mak cor gen
abo an obj fro a com nov cat , eve aft see onl one exa .
a wea of res ind tha peo are cap of acq thi sor of kno -
edg , bot rap in the lab ( nos , 123 per & ten , 123 ) and ove
the cou of dev ( lan , smi , & jon , 123 l .
smi , jon , lan ,
ger - sto , & sam , 123 ) .
chi als acq oth sor of ind
con ove the cou of dev , inc the rea tha cat
may be org tax ( ros , 123 ) , tha som ver occ in alt
pat and oth don ( e . g . , pin , 123 ) or tha com ord sho be
tra ( shu & vog , 123 ) .
how can an ind con be lea , and how mig a bay fra
exp thi ? is it pos to acq an ind con fas tha the spe
hyp it is mea to con ? if not , how can we exp peo lea in
som sit ? if so , wha pri exp thi acq ?
a fam exa of the lea of ind con was pro by goo
( 123 ) .
sup we hav man bag of col mar and dis by dra sam
tha som bag see to hav bla mar , oth hav whi mar , and sti oth
hav red or gre mar .
eve bag is uni in col no bag con mar of
mor tha one col .
if we dra a sin mar fro a new bag in thi pop
and obs a col nev see bef say , pur it see rea to exp tha
oth dra fro thi sam bag wil als be pur .
bef we sta dra fro
any of the bag , we had muc les rea to exp tha suc a gen wou
the ass tha col is uni wit bag is a lea ove ,
an acq ind con .
the abi to inf suc a con is not in its
a sol to the ult cha of ind it res on oth , arg dee
ass tha the new bag is lik the pre bag we hav see in rel
yet it is sti a ver use pie of abs kno tha gui sub
gen and can its be ind fro exp .
we can ill a sim ide in the rec wor by ima a lea who
is sho the sch dat in fig 123 ( i ) .
hav see poi a onl , the lea has
no way to dec whe b or c is mor lik to be in the sam cat or reg as
fig 123 : lea hig - ord inf .
( i ) giv poi a , one can ide whe b or c is mor lik .
( ii ) giv add dat , a mod tha cou lea hig - ord inf abo hyp mig fav reg tha ten to be lon , thi rec ori alo the y axi ( i . e . , reg for whi the len l ten to be sho , the wid w ten to be lon , and the loc ( x and y coo ) can be nea any ) .
if thi is the cas , poi a and b are pro wit the sam reg , but a and c are not .
how , if the lea has als see the dat in fig 123 ( ii ) , the mig inf bot
rst - ord and sec - ord kno abo the dat set .
fir - ord lea ref
to the rea tha the spe rec reg con the bes exp
for the dat poi see so far sec - ord ( ove ) lea wou inv
rea tha the reg ten to be lon , thi , and ori alo the y - axi
as lea the how cat are org hel chi gen fro new ite ,
thi typ of hig - ord inf hel wit the int of nov dat , lea
to the rea tha poi b is pro in the sam reg as a but poi c is not ,
eve tho b and c are equ fro a .
a cer kin of bay mod , kno as a hie bay mod ( hbm ) ,
can lea ove by not onl cho amo spe hyp , but by als
mak hig - ord gen abo tho hyp .
as wev alr see , in
a non - hie mod , the mod set the ran of the par tha den the
hyp .
in a hie mod , the mod ins spe hyp
par den the par and the mod lea the ran of the par
the .
so rat tha bei giv tha the ran of eac of the the low cor
( x , y ) , len l , and wid w val lie bet 123 and 123 , a hie mod mig
ins lea the typ ran of eac ( e . g . , tha l ten to be sho whi w ten to
be lon , as dep in fig 123 ( ii ) ) whi the mod spe the ran of the ran .
the ide of wir in abs kno at hig lev of hie bay
mod may see rem of nat app , but sev key fea t wel
wit emp int abo lea .
the top lev of kno in an hbm is
pre , but eve lev ben tha can be lea .
as one mov up the hie ,
kno bec inc abs and imp inc wea con on
the lea spe bel at the low lev .
thu , a ver of the mod tha
lea at hig lev bui in wea con tha a ver tha lea onl at
low lev .
by add fur lev of abs to an hbm whi kee pre -
spe par to a min , at the hig lev of the mod , we can com
inc clo to the cla emp pro for the bot - up , dat - dri
ori of abs kno .
alt the pre mat det of any hbm are too com to go int
det her , we can giv a sim exa des to mot how it mig be
pos to lea on mul lev sim .
ima you are fac wit the
mar exa des ear .
we can cap thi pro by say tha for eac
bag b , you hav to lea the dis of col in the bag : cal thi dis b .
at the sam tim , you wan to mak two inf abo the set of bag as a who :
how uni col ten to be wit bag ( cal thi ) and wha sor of col exi
ove ( cal thi ) .
her , and are the hyp of eac of the b val ,
sin how lik any par bag is wil dep on the hig - lev ass abo
bag : if you thi , for ins , tha col ten to be uni wit bag , the a bag
wit lot of mar of die col in it wil be low pro rel to a bag
wit onl one .
we can use thi fac to lea on the hig lev as wel .
a bay
mod tha see thr bag , all uni in col , wil sea for the set of , , and
tha mak the obs dat mos pro thi wil cor to val tha
ten to fav uni wit bag , and and val tha cap the obs
col dis .
the bay mod lea the thi sim in the sen
tha it see to max the joi pro of all of the par , not jus the
thi exa is a sim des of one of the exi hie bay
mod for cat lea ( kem , per , & ten , 123 ) ; the are sev -
era oth hbm for the sam und pro ( nav , 123 gri , san ,
can , & nav , 123 hel , san , & cha , 123 ) .
tho the die in
man par , wha all of the mod hav in com is tha the can per
inf on mul lev of abs .
whe pre wit dat con of
spe obj and fea , the mod are cap of mak gen abo
the spe obj as wel as the app gen abo cat in
gen .
for ins , chi in an exp by l .
smi et al .
( 123 ) wer pre -
sen wit fou nov con and lab and acq a bia to ass not onl tha
ind cat lik cha ten to be org by sha , but als tha cat
of sol art in gen are as wel .
a hie bay mod can mak the
sam gen on the bas of the sam dat ( kem , per , & ten , 123 ) .
a sur eec of lea in hie mod is tha , qui oft , the hig -
ord abs are acq bef all of the spe low - lev det :
chi acq som cat bia eve bef the hav lea all cat ,
the mod mig inf par val suc tha l ten to be sho and w ten to be
lon , sig bef the siz and loc of eac rec reg is lea wit
pre .
thi eec , whi we mig cal the ble of abs , is som
cou .
why are hig - ord gen lik thi som eas for a
bay lea to acq ?
one rea is tha the hig - lev hyp spa is oft sma tha the low -
lev one .
as a res , the mod has to cho bet few opt at the hig lev ,
whi may req les evi .
in our rec exa , the hig - lev kno
123 tha noa goo for thi coi .
may con of onl thr opt : l and w are app equ , l is sma tha
w , or w is sma tha l .
eve if a lea doe kno whe l is 123 uni or 123
uni lon and w is 123 or 123 , it mig be fai obv tha l is sma tha w .
mor gen , the hig - lev inf con the low - lev hyp spa
( and is the bas on the dat set as a who ) , whe the low - lev inf is
onl rel for spe dat poi .
a sin dat poi is inf onl abo the
pre siz and loc of a sin reg .
how , it and eve oth sin dat
poi is inf abo all of the hig - lev hyp .
the is , in eec , mor
evi ava to the hig lev tha the low one , and the can the be
lea qui qui .
is the emp evi tha peo acq hig - lev abs kno at
the sam tim as , or bef , low - lev spe kno ? adu lab cat
lea stu ind tha gen on the bas of abs kno occ
at lea as rap as low - lev gen ( per & ten , 123 ) .
the is
als som ind tha chi sho an abs to con shi in bot bio
kno ( sim & kei , 123 ) and cat , ten to die glo ,
sup - ord cat bef bas lev kin ( man & mcd , 123 )
inf hav bee sho to hav the cap to for ove giv a sma
amo of dat , pro ini evi tha the mec nee for rap
acq ind con exi ear in dev ( dew & xu , in pre ) .
the is als a gre dea of res tha dem the exi of abs
kno bef any con kno has bee acq .
for ins , the cor
kno res pro sug tha bef chi lea abo man spe
phy obj or men sta , the hav abs kno abo phy obj
and int age in gen ( e . g . , spe & kin , 123 ) .
the cor kno
vie sug tha the pre of thi abs kno so ear in dev , and
bef the exi of spe kno , imp tha the abs kno mus be
inn in som mea sen .
mor bro , the bas mot for pos inn
con on cog dev is tha wit the con , chi wou
be una to inf the spe kno tha the see to acq fro the lim dat
ava to the .
wha is cri to the arg is tha som con are pre
pri to lea som of the spe dat , not tha tho con mus be inn .
app to cog dev tha emp lea fro dat typ vie
the cou of dev as a pro lay of inc abs kno
on top of mor con rep und suc a vie , lea abs kno
wou ten to com in aft mor spe con kno is lea , so the for
cou not use con the lat .
thi vie is sen in the abs of exp tha can cap how abs
con cou be lea tog wit ( or bef ) the mor spe kno the
are nee to con .
how , the hie bay fra pro suc
an exp ( or , at min , evi tha suc a thi is pos ) .
a mod
wit the cap of acq abs kno of a cer for can ide
wha abs kno is bes sup by the dat by lea whi val of
hyp - par ( lik and ) are the mos pro giv the dat see so far
an abs gen lik thi can be acq ver ear and can fun as a
con on lat acq of spe dat , it may fun eec as if it wer an
inn dom - spe con , eve if it is in fac not inn and ins is acq
by dom - gen ind fro dat .
in sum , the , hie bay mod oer a val too for exp que -
tio of inn due to the abi to lim bui - in kno to inc abs
lev and the lea ind con at oth lev .
as we wil see in the nex
sec , the bay fra is als a use way of app the que for
ano rea the abi to eva the rat tra bet the sim
of a hyp and its goo - of - t to the evi in the wor .
bec of thi ,
bay lea can mak inf tha oth app to go bey the amo
123 sec for a mor tho dis of how thi deg of sup is con wit a
non - inn per , and is in fac imp to avo in any mod of lea .
of evi ava .
123 dev ind fra
the hie bay mod des abo exp the ori of ind bia
and con by tun pri in res to dat obs fro mul set
or con .
but the acq of abs kno oft app mor dis or
qua mor lik con an app hyp spa , or sel an ap -
pro hyp spa fro a hig lev hyp spa of hyp spa .
con the the the vie of cog dev .
chi kno
abo the wor is org int int the wit a str and fun ana -
ogo to sci the ( car , 123 gop & mel , 123 kar - smi ,
123 kei , 123 ) .
the the ser as an abs fra tha gui ind
gen at mor con lev of kno , by gen a spa of hyp -
int the hav bee pos to und rea - wor cat ( mur
& med , 123 ) , cau ind ( wal , 123 gri & ten , 123 ) ,
bio rea ( atr , 123 ina & hat , 123 med & atr , 123 ) ,
phy rea ( mcc , 123 ) and soc int ( nic & sti , 123
wel , 123 ) .
for ins , an int the of min gen hyp abo
how a spe age beh mig be exp in par sit can
