as the ava and imp of rel dat as the fri sum - mar on a soc net web , it bec inc im - por to hav goo mod for suc dat .
the kin of lat str tha hav bee con for use in pre lin in suc net hav bee rel lim .
in par , the mac lea com has foc on lat cla mod , ada bay non met to joi inf how man la - ten cla the are whi lea whi ent bel to eac cla .
we pur a sim app wit a ric kin of lat var fea a bay non app to sim inf the num of fea at the sam tim we lea whi ent hav eac fea .
our mod com the inf fea wit kno cov in ord to per lin pre .
we dem tha the gre exp of thi app all us to im - pro per on thr dat .
sta ana of soc net and oth rel dat has bee an act are of res for ove sev yea and is bec an inc imp pro as the sco and ava of soc net dat inc ( 123 ) .
in the pro , we obs the int bet a set of ent and we wis to ext inf rep tha are use for mak pre abo the ent and the rel .
one bas cha is lin pre , whe we obs the rel ( or lin ) bet som pai of ent in a net ( or gra ) and we try to pre uno lin .
for exa , in a soc net , we mig onl kno som sub of peo are fri and som are not , and see to pre whi oth peo are lik to get alo .
our goa is to imp the exp and per of gen mod bas on ext lat str rep the pro of ind ent fro the obs dat , so we wil foc on the kin of mod .
thi rul out app lik the pop p mod tha use glo qua of the gra , suc as how man edg or tri are pre ( 123 , 123 ) .
of the app tha do lin pre bas on att of the ind ent , the can lar be cla int cla - bas and fea - bas app .
the are man mod tha can be pla und the app , so we wil foc on the mod tha are mos com to our app .
mos gen mod usi a cla - bas rep are bas on the sto blo , int in ( 123 ) and fur dev in ( 123 ) .
in the mos bas for of the mod , we ass the are a nit num of cla tha ent can bel to and tha the cla ent det the str of the gra , wit the pro of a lin exi bet two ent dep onl on the cla of tho ent .
in gen , the cla are uno , and inf red to ass ent to cla and inf the cla int .
one of the imp iss tha ari in wor wit thi mod is det how man lat cla the are for a giv pro .
the inn rel mod ( irm ) ( 123 ) use met fro non bay sta to tac thi pro , all the num of cla to be det at inf tim .
the inn hid rel mod ( 123 ) fur ela on thi mod and the mix mem sto blo ( mms ) ( 123 ) ext it to all ent to hav mix mem .
all the cla - bas mod sha a bas lim in the kin of rel str the nat - ral cap .
for exa , in a soc net , we mig nd a cla whi con mal hig sch ath and ano whi con mal hig sch mus .
we mig bel the two cla wil beh sim , but wit a cla - bas mod , our opt are to eit mer the cla or dup our kno abo com asp of the .
in a sim vei , wit a lim amo of dat , it mig be rea to com the int a sin cla mal hig sch stu - den , but wit mor dat we wou wan to spl thi gro int ath and mus .
for eve new att lik thi tha we add , the num of cla wou pot dou , qui lea to an ove of cla .
in add , if som is bot an ath and a mus , we wou eit hav to add ano cla for tha or use a mix mem mod , whi wou say tha the mor a stu is an ath , the les he is a mus .
an alt app tha add thi pro is to use fea to des the ent .
the cou be a sep fea for hig sch stu , mal , ath , and mus and the pre or abs of eac of the fea is wha den eac per and det the rel .
one cla of lat - fea mod for soc net has bee dev by ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , who pro rea - val vec as lat rep of the ent in the net whe dep on the mod , eit the dis , inn pro , or wei com of the vec cor to two ent aff the lik of the bei a lin bet the .
how , ext our hig sch stu exa , we mig hop tha ins of hav arb rea - val fea ( whi are sti use for vis ) , we wou inf bin fea whe eac fea cou cor to an att lik mal or ath .
con our ear exa , if we had a lim amo of dat , we mig not pic up on a fea lik ath .
how , as we obs mor int , thi cou eme as a cle fea .
ins of dou the num of cla in our mod , we sim add an add fea .
det the num of fea wil the be of ext imp .
in thi pap , we pre the non lat fea rel mod , a bay non - met mod in whi eac ent has bin - val lat fea tha inu its rel .
in add , the rel dep on a set of kno cov .
thi mod all us to sim inf how man lat fea the are whi at the sam tim inf wha fea eac ent has and how tho fea inu the obs .
thi mod is str mor exp tha the sto blo .
in sec 123 , we des a sim ver of our mod and the the ful mod .
in sec 123 , we dis how to per inf .
in sec 123 , we ill the pro of our mod usi syn dat and the sho tha the gre exp of the lat fea rep res in imp lin pre on thr rea dat .
fin , we con in sec 123
123 the non lat fea rel mod
ass we obs the dir rel lin bet a set of n ent .
let y be the n n bin mat tha con the lin .
tha is , let yij y ( i , j ) = 123 if we obs a lin fro ent i to ent j in tha rel and yij = 123 if we obs tha the is not a lin .
uno lin are lef unl .
our goa wil be to lea a mod fro the obs lin suc tha we can pre the val of the unl ent .
123 bas mod
in our bas mod , eac ent is des by a set of bin fea .
we are not giv the fea a pri and wil att to inf the .
we ass tha the pro of hav a lin fro one ent to ano is ent det by the com eff of all pai fea if the are k fea , the let z be the n k bin mat whe eac row cor to an ent and eac col cor to a fea suc tha zik z ( i , k ) = 123 if the ith ent has fea k and zik = 123 oth .
and let zi den the fea vec cor to ent i .
let w be a k k rea - val wei mat whe wkk w ( k , k12 ) is the wei tha aff the pro of the bei a lin fro ent i to ent j if bot ent i has fea k and ent j has fea k12
we ass tha lin are ind con on z and w , and tha onl the fea of ent i and j inu the pro of a lin bet tho ent .
thi den the lik
pr ( y |z , w ) =
pr ( yij , zj , w )
whe the pro ran ove all pai of ent .
giv the fea mat z and wei mat w , the pro tha the is a lin fro ent i to ent j is
pr ( yij = 123 , w ) =
whe ( ) is a fun tha tra val on ( , ) to ( 123 , 123 ) suc as the sig fun 123 ( x ) or the pro fun ( x ) = ( x ) .
an imp asp of thi mod is tha all - zer col of z do not aff the lik .
we wil tak adv of thi in sec 123 .
thi mod is ver exi .
wit a sin fea per ent , it is equ to a sto blo - mod .
how , sin ent can hav mor tha a sin fea , the mod is mor exp .
in the hig sch stu exa , eac fea can cor to an att lik mal , mus , and ath .
if we wer loo at the rel fri of ( not nec sym ! ) , the the wei at the ( ath , mus ) ent of w wou cor to the wei tha an ath wou be a fri of a mus .
a pos wei wou cor to an inc pro , a neg wei a dec pro , and a zer wei wou ind tha the is no cor bet tho two fea and the obs rel .
the mor pos cor fea peo hav , the mor lik the are to be fri .
ano adv of thi rep is tha if our dat con obs of stu in two dis loc , we cou hav a geo fea for the dif loc .
whi oth fea suc as ath or mus mig ind tha one per cou be a fri of ano , the geo fea cou hav ext neg wei so tha peo who liv far fro eac oth are les lik to be fri .
how , the par for the non - geo fea wou sti be tie for all peo , all us to mak str in - fer abo how the inu the rel .
cla - bas mod wou nee an abu of cla to cap the eff and wou not hav the sam kin of par sha .
giv the ful set of obs y , we wis to inf the pos dis of the fea mat z and the wei w .
we do thi usi bay the , p ( z , w|y ) p ( y |z , w ) p ( z ) p ( w ) , whe we hav pla an ind pri on z and w .
wit any pri kno abo the fea or the wei , a nat pri for w inv pla an ind n ( 123 , 123 w ) pri on eac wij .
how , pla a pri on z is mor cha .
if we kne how man fea the wer , we cou pla an arb par pri on z .
how , we wis to hav a exi pri tha all us to sim inf the num of fea at the sam tim we inf all the ent in z .
the ind buf pro is suc a pri .
123 the ind buf pro and the bas gen mod
as men in the pre sec , any fea whi are all - zer do not aff the lik .
tha mea tha eve if we add an inn num of all - zer fea , the lik wou rem the sam .
the ind buf pro ( ibp ) ( 123 ) is a pri on inn bin mat suc tha wit pro one , a fea mat dra fro it for a nit num of ent wil onl hav a nit num of non - zer fea .
mor , any fea mat , no mat how man non - zer fea
it con , has pos pro und the ibp pri .
it is the a use non pri to pla on our lat fea mat z .
the gen pro to sam mat fro the ibp can be des thr a cul met tha gav the ibp its nam .
in thi met , eac row of z cor to a din at an ind buf and eac col cor to a dis at the inn lon buf .
if a cus tak a par dis , the the ent tha cor to the cus row and the dis col is a one and the ent is zer oth .
the cul met des how peo cho the dis .
in the ibp , the rst cus cho a poi ( ) num of dis to sam , whe is a par of the ibp .
the ith cus tri eac pre sam dis wit pro pro to the num of peo tha hav alr tri the dis and the sam a poi ( / i ) num of new dis .
thi pro is exc , whi mea tha the ord in whi the cus ent the res doe not aff the con of the dis tha peo try ( up to per of the dis as des in ( 123 ) ) .
thi ins lea to a str gib sam to do pos inf tha we des in sec 123
usi an ibp pri on z , our bas gen lat fea rel mod is :
wkk n ( 123 , 123
yij ( cid : 123 ) ziw z>
for all k , k12 for whi fea k and k12 are non - zer for eac obs .
123 ful non lat fea rel mod
we hav des the bas non lat fea rel mod .
we now com it wit ide fro the soc net com to get our ful mod .
fir , we not tha the are man ins of log mod use in sta net ana tha mak use of cov in lin pre ( 123 ) .
her we wil foc on a sub of ide dis in ( 123 ) .
let xij be a vec tha inu the rel yij , let xp , i be a vec of kno att of ent i whe it is the par of a lin , and let xc , i be a vec of kno att of ent i whe it is a chi of a lin .
for exa , in sec 123 , whe y rep rel amo cou , xij is a sca rep the geo sim bet cou ( xij = exp ( d ( i , j ) ) ) sin thi cou inu the rel and xp , i = xc , i is a set of kno fea ass wit eac cou ( xp , i and xc , i wou be dis if we had cov spe to eac cou rol ) .
we the let c be a nor dis sca and , p , c , a , and b be nor dis vec in our ful mod in whi
pr ( yij = 123 , w , x , , a , b , c ) =
xij + (
p xp , i + ai ) + (
c xc , j + bj ) + c
if we do not hav inf abo one or all of x , xp , and xc , we dro the cor ter ( s ) .
in thi mod , c is a glo off tha aff the def lik of a rel and ai and bj are ent and rol spe off .
so far , we hav onl con the cas of obs a sin rel .
it is not unc to obs mul rel for the sam set of ent .
for exa , in add to the fri of rel , we mig als obs the adm and col wit rel .
we sti bel tha eac ent has a sin set of fea tha det all its rel , but the fea wil not aff eac rel in the sam way .
if we are giv m rel , lab the y 123 , y 123 , .
we wil use the sam fea for eac rel , but we wil use an ind wei mat w i for eac rel y i .
in add , cov mig be rel spe or com acr all rel .
reg , the wil int in dif way in eac rel .
our ful mod is now
pr ( y 123 , .
, y m|z , ( w i , x i , i , ai , bi , ci ) m
pr ( y i|z , w i , x i , i , ai , bi , ci ) .
123 var of the non lat fea rel mod
the mod tha we hav den is for dir gra in whi the mat y i is not ass to be sym .
for und gra , we wou lik to den a sym mod .
thi is eas to do by res w i to be sym .
if we fur bel tha the fea we lea sho not int , we can ass tha w i is dia .
123 rel non lat fea mod
the are two mod rel to our non lat fea rel mod tha bot use the ibp as a pri on bin lat fea mat .
the mos clo rel mod is the bin mat fac ( bmf ) mod of ( 123 ) .
the bmf is a gen mod wit sev con var , the mos rel of whi was use to pre uno ent of bin mat for ima rec and col lte .
if y is the obs par of a bin mat , the in thi var , we ass tha y |u , v , w ( u w v > ) whe ( ) is the log fun , u and v are ind bin mat dra fro the ibp , and the ent in w are ind dra fro a nor dis .
if y is an n n mat whe we ass the row and col hav the sam fea ( i . e . , u = v ) , the thi spe cas of the mod is equ to our bas ( cov - fre ) mod .
whi ( 123 ) wer int in a mor gen for tha is app to oth tas , we hav spe and ext thi mod for the tas of lin pre .
the oth rel mod is the adc mod ( 123 ) .
thi mod ass we are giv a sym mat of non sim y and tha y = zw z> + whe z is dra fro the ibp , w is a dia mat wit ent ind dra fro a gam dis , and is ind gau noi .
thi mod doe not all for arb fea int nor doe it all for neg fea
exa inf in our non lat fea rel mod is int ( 123 ) .
how , the ibp pri len its nic to app inf via mar cha mon car ( 123 ) .
we rst des inf in the sin rel , bas mod , lat ext it to the ful mod .
in our bas mod , we mus do pos inf on z and w .
sin wit pro one , any sam of z wil hav a nit num of non - zer ent , we can sto jus the non - zer col of eac sam of the inn bin mat z .
sin we do not hav a con pri on w , we mus als sam the cor ent of w .
our sam is as fol :
giv w , res z we do thi by res eac row zi in suc .
whe sam ent in the ith row , we use the fac tha the ibp is exc to ass tha the ith cus in the ibp was the las one to ent the buf .
the , whe res zik for non - zer col k , if mk is the num of non - zer ent in col k exc row i , the pr ( zik = 123 , w , y ) mk pr ( y |zi = 123 , zik , w ) .
we mus als sam zik for eac of the inn man all - zer col to add fea to the rep .
her , we use the fac tha in the ibp , the pri dis on the num of new fea for the las cus is poi ( / n ) .
as des in ( 123 ) , we mus the wei thi by the lik ter for hav tha man new fea , com thi for 123 , 123 , .
. kma new fea for som max num of new fea kma and sam the num of new fea fro thi nor dis .
the mai dif ari bec we hav not sam the val of w for the all - zer col and we do not hav a con pri on w , so we can com the lik ter exa .
we can ado one of the non - con sam app fro the dir pro ( 123 ) to thi tas or use the sug in ( 123 ) to inc a met - has ste to pro and eit acc or rej som num of new col and the cor wei .
we cho to use a sto mon car app of the lik .
onc the num of new fea is sam , we mus sam the new val in w as des bel .
giv z , res w we seq res eac of the wei in w tha cor to non - zer fea and dro all wei tha cor to all - zer fea .
sin we do not hav a con pri on w , we can dir sam w fro its pos .
if ( ) is the pro , we ada the aux sam tri fro ( 123 ) to hav a gib sam for the ent of w .
if ( ) is the log fun , no suc tri exi and we res to usi a met - has ste for eac wei in whi we pro a new wei fro a nor dis cen aro the old one .
hyp we can als pla con pri on the hyp and w and per - for pos inf on the .
we use the app fro ( 123 ) for sam of .
fig 123 : fea and cor obs for syn dat .
in ( a ) , we sho fea tha cou be exp by a lat - cla mod tha the pro the obs mat in ( b ) .
whi ind one val , bla ind zer val , and gra ind hel out val .
in ( c ) , we sho the fea mat of our oth syn dat alo wit the cor obs in ( d ) .
( e ) sho the fea mat of a ran cho sam fro our gib sam .
eac i as abo .
how , whe we res z , we mus com
in the cas of mul rel , we can sam wi giv z ind for
pr ( zik = 123 , ( w , y ) m
pr ( y i|z = 123 , zik , w i ) .
in the ful mod , we mus als upd ( i , i
by con on the , the upd equ for z and w i tak the sam for , but wit equ ( 123 ) use for the c , ai , bi , ci ) are lik .
whe we con on z and w i , the pos upd for ( i , i ind and can be der fro the upd in ( 123 ) .
c , ai , bi , ci ) m
imp det des the eas of wri dow the sam , sam for the ibp oft mix slo due to the ext lar sta spa ful of loc opt .
eve if we lim z to hav k col , the are 123 k pot fea mat .
in an eff to exp the spa bet , we can aug the gib sam for z by int spl - mer sty mov as des in ( 123 ) as wel as per ann or tem to smo out the lik .
how , we fou tha the mos sig imp cam fro usi a goo ini .
a key ins tha was men in sec 123 is tha the sto blo is a spe cas of our mod in whi eac ent onl has a sin fea .
sto blo hav bee sho to per wel for sta net ana , so the see lik a rea way to ini the fea mat .
in the res sec , we com the per of a ran ini to one in whi z is ini wit a mat lea by the inn rel mod ( irm ) .
to get our ini poi , we ran the gib sam for the irm for onl 123 ite and use the res cla ass to see z .
we rst qua ana the str and wea of our mod on syn dat , est - lis wha we can and can exp fro it .
we the com our mod aga two cla - bas gen mod , the inn rel mod ( irm ) ( 123 ) and the mix mem sto blo ( mms ) ( 123 ) , on two dat fro the ori irm pap and a nip coa dat , est tha our mod doe bet tha the bes of tho mod on tho dat .
123 syn dat
we rst foc on the qua per of our mod .
we app the bas mod to two ver sim syn dat gen fro kno fea .
the dat wer sim eno tha the bas mod cou att 123 acc on hel - out dat , but wer dif eno to add the qua cha of the lat fea inf .
in one dat , the fea wer the cla - bas fea see in fig 123 ( a ) and in the oth , we use the fea in fig 123 ( c ) .
the obs der fro the fea can be see in fig 123 ( b ) and fig 123 ( d ) , res .
on bot dat , we ini z and w ran .
wit the ver sim , cla - bas mod , 123 of the sam fea mat wer ide to the gen fea mat wit ano 123 dif by a sin bit .
how , on the oth dat , onl 123 of the sam wer at mos a sin bit dif tha the tru mat .
it is not the cas tha the oth 123 of the sam wer bad sam , tho .
a ran cho sam of z is sho in fig 123 ( e ) .
tho thi mat is dif fro the tru gen fea , wit the app wei mat it pre jus as wel as the tru fea mat .
the tes sho tha whi our lat fea app is abl to lea fea tha exp the dat wel , due to sub int bet set of fea and wei , the fea the wil not in gen cor to int fea .
how , we can exp the inf fea to do a goo job exp the dat .
thi als ind tha the are man loc opt in the fea spa , fur mot the nee for goo ini .
123 mul - rel dat
in the ori irm pap , the irm was app to sev dat ( 123 ) .
the inc a dat con 123 rel of 123 cou ( suc as exp to and pro ) alo wit 123 giv fea of the cou ( 123 ) and a dat con 123 kin rel of 123 peo in the aly tri in cen aus ( 123 ) .
see ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) for mor det on the dat .
our goa in app the lat fea rel mod to the dat was to dem the eff of our alg whe com to two est cla - bas alg , the irm and the mms , and to dem the eff of our ful alg .
for the aly dat , we had no kno cov .
for the cou dat , xp = xc was the set of kno fea of the cou and x was the cou dis sim mat des in sec 123 .
as men in the syn dat sec , the inf fea do not nec hav any int - pre mea , so we res our to a qua com .
for eac dat , we hel out 123 of the dat dur tra and we rep the auc , the are und the roc ( rec ope - ati cha ) cur , for the hel - out dat ( 123 ) .
we rep res for inf a glo set of fea for all rel as des in sec 123 whi we ref to as glo as wel as res whe a dif set of fea is ind lea for eac rel and the the auc of all rel are ave tog , whi we ref to as sin .
in add , we tri ini our sam for the lat fea rel mod wit eit a ran fea mat ( lfr ran ) or cla - bas fea fro the irm ( lfr w / irm ) .
we ran our sam for 123 ite for eac con usi a log squ fun ( tho res usi the pro are sim ) , thr out the rst 123 sam as bur - in .
eac met was giv ve ran res .
tab 123 : auc on the cou and kin dat .
bol ide the bes per .
lfr w / irm 123 123
cou glo aly sin aly glo
res of the tes are in tab 123
as can be see , the lfr wit cla - bas ini out - per bot the irm and mms .
on the ind rel ( sin ) , the lfr wit ran ini als doe wel , bea the irm ini on bot dat .
how , the ran ini doe poo at inf the glo fea due to the cou of fea and the wei for eac of the rel .
thi hig the imp of pro ini .
to dem - str tha the cov are hel , but tha eve wit the , our mod doe wel , we ran the glo lfr wit cla - bas ini wit cov on the cou dat and the auc dro to 123 123 , whi is sti the bes per .
on the cou dat , the lat fea mod inf on ave 123 - 123 fea whe see wit the irm and 123 - 123 wit a ran ini .
on the kin dat , it inf 123 - 123 fea whe see wit the irm and 123 - 123 whe see ran .
( a ) tru rel
( b ) fea pre
( c ) irm pre
( d ) mms pre
fig 123 : pre for all alg on the nip coa dat .
in ( a ) , a whi ent mea two peo wro a pap tog .
in ( b - d ) , the lig an ent , the mor lik tha alg pre the cor peo wou int .
123 pre nip coa
as our nal exa , hig the exp of the lat fea rel mod , we use the coa dat fro the nip dat com in ( 123 ) .
thi dat con a lis of all pap and aut fro nip 123 - 123
we too the 123 aut who had pub wit the mos oth peo and loo at the coa inf .
the sym coa gra can be see in fig 123 ( a ) .
we aga lea mod for the lat fea rel mod , the irm and the mms tra on 123 of the dat and usi the rem 123 as a tes set .
for the lat fea mod , sin the coa rel is sym , we lea a ful , sym wei mat w as des in sec 123 .
we did not use any cov .
a vis of the pre for eac of the alg can be see in fig 123 ( b - d ) .
fig 123 rea dri hom the dif in exp .
sto blo are req to gro aut int cla , and ass tha all mem of cla int sim .
for vis , we hav ord the aut by the gro the irm fou .
the gro can cle be see in fig 123 ( c ) .
the mms , by all par mem is not as res .
how , on thi dat , the irm out it .
the lat fea rel mod is the mos exp of the mod and is abl to muc mor fai rep the coa net .
the lat fea rel mod als qua out the irm and mms .
we aga ran our sam for 123 sam ini wit eit a ran fea mat or a cla - bas fea mat fro the irm and rep the auc on the hel - out dat .
usi ve res for eac met , the lfr w / irm per bes wit an auc of 123 , the lfr ran was nex wit 123 and muc low wer the irm at 123 and the mms at 123 ( all at mos 123 ) .
on ave , the lat fea rel mod inf 123 - 123 fea whe ini wit the irm and 123 - 123 fea whe ini ran .
we hav int the non lat fea rel mod , an exp non mod for inf lat bin fea in rel ent .
thi mod com app fro the sta net ana com , whi hav emp fea - bas met for ana net dat , wit ide fro bay non in ord to sim inf the num of lat bin fea at the sam tim we inf the fea of eac ent and how tho fea int .
exi cla - bas app inf lat str tha is a spe cas of wha can be inf by thi mod .
as a con , our mod is str mor exp tha the app , and can use the sol pro by the app for ini .
we sho emp tha the non lat fea mod per wel at lin pre on sev dif dat , inc dat tha wer ori use to arg for cla - bas app .
the suc of thi mod can be tra to its ric rep , whi mak it abl to cap sub pat of int muc bet tha cla - bas mod .
ack ktm was sup by the u . s .
dep of ene con de - ac1 - 123 thr law liv nat lab .
tlg was sup by gra num fa1 - 123 - 123 - 123 fro the air for ofc of sci res .
