as he ty nd ce of al ch as he ps um - ed on a al ng es , it es ly im - nt to ve od ls or ch ta .
he ds of nt re at ve en ed or se in ng ks in ch ks ve en ly ed .
in ar , he ne ng ty as ed on nt ss ls , ng an ic ds to ly er ow ny la - nt es re re le ng ch es ng to ch ss .
we ue a ar ch th a er nd of nt nt ng a an ic ch to ly er he er of es at he me me we rn ch es ve ch re .
ur el es se ed es th wn es in er to rm nk on .
we te at he er ss of is ch ws us to im - ve ce on ee ts .
al is of al ks nd er al ta as en an ve ea of ch or er ty rs nd is ng an ly nt em as he pe nd ty of al rk ts se ( 23 ) .
in se ms , we ve he ns en a et of es nd we sh to ct ve ns at re ul or ng ns ut he es nd ir ps .
ne ic ge is nk on , re we ve he ps ( or ks ) en me rs of es in a rk ( or ph ) nd we ry to ct ed ks .
or le , in a al rk , we ht ly ow me et of le re ds nd me re ot , nd ek to ct ch er le re ly to et ng .
ur al is to ve he ss nd ce of ve ls ed on ng nt re ng he es of al es om he ed ta , so we ll us on se ds of ls .
is es ut es ke he ar p el at es al es of he ph , ch as ow ny es or es re nt ( 23 , 23 ) .
of he es at do nk on ed on es of he al es , se an ly be ed to ss - ed nd re - ed es .
re re ny ls at an be ed er se es , so we ll us on he ls at re st le to ur ch .
st ve ls ng a ss - ed on re ed on he ic el , ed in ( 23 ) nd er ed in ( 23 ) .
in he st ic rm of he el , we me re re a te er of es at es an ng to nd at se es ly ne he re of he ph , th he ty of a nk ng en wo es ng ly on he es of se es .
in al , se es re ed , nd ce es to ng es to es nd ng he ss ns .
ne of he nt es at se in ng th is el is ng ow ny nt es re re or a en em .
he te al el ( rm ) ( 23 ) ed ds om ic an cs to le is em , ng he er of es to be ed at ce me .
he te en al el ( 23 ) er ed on is el nd he ed ip ic el ( sb ) ( 23 ) ed it to ow es to ve ed ps .
ll se ss - ed ls re a ic on in he ds of al re ey tu - ly re .
or le , in a al rk , we ht nd a ss ch ns le gh ol es nd er ch ns le gh ol ns .
we ht ve se wo es ll ve ly , ut th a ss - ed el , ur ns re to er ge he es or te ur ge ut on ts of em .
in a ar in , th a ed nt of ta , it ht be le to ne se to a le ss le gh ol tu - ts , ut th re ta we ld nt to it is up to es nd ns .
or ry ew te ke is at we dd , he er of es ld ly le , ly ng to an ce of es .
in on , if ne is th an te nd a an , we ld er ve to dd er ss or at or se a ed ip el , ch ld ay at he re a nt is an te , he ss he is a an .
an ve ch at es is em is to se es to be he es .
re ld be a te re or gh ol nt , le , te , nd an nd he ce or ce of ch of se es is at es ch on nd es ir ps .
ne ss of nt - re ls or al ks as en ed by ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ho ed al - ed rs as nt ns of he es in he rk re ng on he el , er he ce , er ct , or ed on of he rs ng to wo es ts he od of re ng a nk en em .
er , ng ur gh ol nt le , we ht pe at ad of ng ry al - ed es ( ch re ll ul or on ) , we ld er ry es re ch re ld nd to an te ke le or te .
ng ur er le , if we ad a ed nt of ta , we ht ot ck up on a re ke te .
er , as we ve re ns , is ld ge as a ar re .
ad of ng he rs of es in ur el , we ly dd an al re .
ng he er of es ll re be of me ce .
in is er , we nt he ic nt re al el , a an ra - ic el in ch ch ty as ry - ed nt es at es ts ns .
in on , he ns nd on a et of wn es .
is el ws us to ly er ow ny nt es re re le at he me me ng at es ch ty as nd ow se es ce he ns .
is el is ly re ve an he ic el .
in on 23 , we be a ed on of ur el nd en he ll el .
in on 23 , we ss ow to rm ce .
in on 23 , we te he es of ur el ng ic ta nd en ow at he er ss of he nt re on ts in ed nk on on ee al ts .
ly , we de in on 23
23 he ic nt re al el
me we ve he ed al ks en a et of n es .
et y be he n n ry ix at ns se ks .
at is , et ij y ( i , j ) = 23 if we ve a nk om ty i to ty j in at on nd ij = 23 if we ve at re is ot a nk .
ed ks re ft ed .
ur al ll be to rn a el om he ed ks ch at we an ct he es of he ed es .
23 ic el
in ur ic el , ch ty is ed by a et of ry es .
we re ot en se es a ri nd ll pt to er em .
we me at he ty of ng a nk om ne ty to er is ly ed by he ed ct of ll se re if re re k es , en et z be he n k ry ix re ch ow ds to an ty nd ch mn ds to a re ch at ik z ( i , k ) = 23 if he th ty as re k nd ik = 23 se .
nd et zi te he re or ng to ty i .
et w be a k k al - ed ht ix re 23 w ( k , 23 ) is he ht at ts he ty of re ng a nk om ty i to ty j if th ty i as re k nd ty j as re 23
we me at ks re nt ed on z nd w , nd at ly he es of es i nd j ce he ty of a nk en se es .
is es he od
pr ( y |z , w ) =
pr ( zi , zj , w )
re he ct es er ll rs of es .
en he re ix z nd ht ix w , he ty at re is a nk om ty i to ty j is
pr ( ij = |z , w ) =
re ( ) is a on at ms es on ( , ) to ( 23 , 23 ) ch as he id on xp ( x ) or he it on ( x ) = ( x ) .
an nt ct of is el is at ll - ro ns of z do ot ct he od .
we ll ke ge of is in on 23 .
is el is ry le .
th a le re er ty , it is nt to a ic ck - el .
er , ce es an ve re an a le re , he el is re ve .
in he gh ol nt le , ch re an nd to an te ke le , an , nd te .
if we re ng at he on nd of ( ot ly ic ! ) , en he ht at he ( te , an ) ry of w ld nd to he ht at an te ld be a nd of a an .
a ve ht ld nd to an ed ty , a ve ht a ed ty , nd a ro ht ld te at re is no on en se wo es nd he ed on .
he re ly ed es le ve , he re ly ey re to be ds .
er ge of is on is at if ur ta ed ns of ts in wo nt ns , we ld ve a ic re or he nt ns .
le er es ch as te or an ht te at ne on ld be a nd of er , he ic es ld ve ly ve ts so at le ho ve ar om ch er re ss ly to be ds .
er , he rs or he on - ic es ld ll be ed or ll le , ng us to ke er in - es ut ow ey ce he ns .
ss - ed ls ld ed an ce of es to re se ts nd ld ot ve he me nd of er ng .
en he ll et of ns y , we sh to er he or on of he re ix z nd he ts w .
we do is ng es em , p ( z , |y ) p ( y |z , w ) p ( z ) p ( w ) , re we ve ed an nt or on z nd w .
ut ny or ge ut he es or ir ts , a al or or w es ng an nt n ( 23 , 23 w ) or on ch ij .
er , ng a or on z is re ng .
if we ew ow ny es re re , we ld ce an ry ic or on z .
er , we sh to ve a le or at ws us to ly er he er of es at he me me we er ll he es in z .
he an et ss is ch a or .
23 he an et ss nd he ic ve el
as ed in he us on , ny es ch re ll - ro do ot ct he od .
at ns at en if we ed an te er of ll - ro es , he od ld in he me .
he an et ss ( bp ) ( 23 ) is a or on te ry es ch at th ty ne , a re ix wn om it or a te er of es ll ly ve a te er of on - ro es .
er , ny re ix , no er ow ny on - ro es
it ns , as ve ty er he bp or .
it is re a ul ic or to ce on ur nt re ix z .
he ve ss to le es om he bp an be ed gh a ry or at ve he bp ts me .
in is or , ch ow of z ds to a er at an an et nd ch mn ds to a sh at he ly ng et .
if a er es a ar sh , en he ry at ds to he rs ow nd he hs mn is a ne nd he ry is ro se .
he ry or es ow le se he es .
in he bp , he st er es a on ( ) er of es to le , re is a er of he bp .
he th er es ch ly ed sh th ty al to he er of le at ve dy ed he sh nd en es a on ( / i ) er of ew es .
is ss is le , ch ns at he er in ch he rs er he nt es ot ct he on of he es at le ry ( up to ns of he es as ed in ( 23 ) ) .
is ht ds to a rd bs er to do or ce at we be in on 23
ng an bp or on z , ur ic ve nt re al el is :
23 n ( 23 , 23
ij ( id : 23 ) iw z>
or ll k , 23 or ch es k nd 23 re on - ro or ch on .
23 ll ic nt re al el
we ve ed he ic ic nt re al el .
we ow ne it th as om he al rk ty to et ur ll el .
st , we te at re re ny es of it ls ed in al rk is at ke se of es in nk on ( 23 ) .
re we ll us on a et of as ed in ( 23 ) .
et ij be a or at es he on ij , et xp , i be a or of wn es of ty i en it is he nt of a nk , nd et xc , i be a or of wn es of ty i en it is a ld of a nk .
or le , in on 23 , en y ts ps st es , ij is a ar ng he ic ty en es ( ij = xp ( d ( i , j ) ) ) ce is ld ce he ps nd xp , i = xc , i is a et of wn es ed th ch ry ( xp , i nd xc , i ld be ct if we ad es ic to ch ys es ) .
we en et c be a ly ed ar nd , p , c , a , nd b be ly ed rs in ur ll el in ch
pr ( ij = |z , w , x , , a , b , c ) =
ij + (
p xp , i + ai ) + (
c xc , j + bj ) + c
if we do ot ve on ut ne or ll of x , xp , nd xc , we op he ng rm ( s ) .
in is el , c is a al et at ts he lt od of a on nd ai nd bj re ty nd le ic ts .
so ar , we ve ly ed he se of ng a le on .
it is ot on to ve le ns or he me et of es .
or le , in on to he nd of on , we ht so ve he es nd es th ns .
we ll ve at ch ty as a le et of es at es ll ts ns , ut se es ll ot ct ch on in he me ay .
if we re en m ns , el em y 23 , y 23 , .
we ll se he me es or ch on , ut we ll se an nt ht ix w i or ch on y i .
in on , es ht be on ic or on ss ll ns .
ss , ey ll ct in nt ys in ch on .
ur ll el is ow
pr ( y 23 , .
, y |z , ( w i , x i , i , ai , bi , ci ) m
pr ( y |z , w i , x i , i , ai , bi , ci ) .
23 ns of he ic nt re al el
he el at we ve ed is or ed hs in ch he ix y i is ot ed to be ic .
or ed hs , we ld ke to ne a ic el .
is is sy to do by ng w i to be ic .
if we er ve at he es we rn ld ot ct , we an me at w i is al .
23 ed ic nt re ls
re re wo ls ed to ur ic nt re al el at th se he bp as a or on ry nt re es .
he st ly ed el is he ry ix on ( mf ) el of ( 23 ) .
he mf is a al el th al te ts , he st nt of ch as ed to ct ed es of ry es or ge on nd ve ng .
if y is he ed rt of a ry ix , en in is nt , we me at y |u , v , w ( u w v > ) re ( ) is he ic on , u nd v re nt ry es wn om he bp , nd he es in w re nt ws om a al on .
if y is an n n ix re we me he ws nd ns ve he me es ( i . e . , u = v ) , en is al se of ir el is nt to ur ic ( te - ee ) el .
le ( 23 ) re ed in a re al on at is le to er ks , we ve ed nd ed is el or he sk of nk on .
he er ed el is he us el ( 23 ) .
is el es we re en a ic ix of ve es y nd at y = zw z> + re z is wn om he bp , w is a al ix th es ly wn om a ma on , nd is nt an se .
is el es ot ow or ry re ns or es it ow or ve re
ct ce in ur ic nt re al el is le ( 23 ) .
er , he bp or ds lf ly to te ce ia ov in te lo ( 23 ) .
we st be ce in he le on , ic el , er ng it to he ll el .
in ur ic el , we st do or ce on z nd w .
ce th ty ne , ny le of z ll ve a te er of on - ro es , we an re st he on - ro ns of ch le of he te ry ix z .
ce we do ot ve a te or on w , we st so le he ng es of w .
ur er is as ws :
en w , le z we do is by ng ch ow zi in on .
en ng es in he th ow , we se he ct at he bp is le to me at he th er in he bp as he st ne to er he et .
re , en ng ik or on - ro ns k , if mk is he er of on - ro es in mn k ng ow i , en pr ( ik = ik , w , y ) mk pr ( y ik = 23 , ik , w ) .
we st so le ik or ch of he ly ny ll - ro ns to dd es to he on .
re , we se he ct at in he bp , he or on on he er of ew es or he st er is on ( / n ) .
as ed in ( 23 ) , we st en ht is by he od rm or ng at ny ew es , ng is or 23 , 23 , .
. ax ew es or me um er of ew es ax nd ng he er of ew es om is ed on .
he in ty es se we ve ot ed he es of w or he ll - ro ns nd we do ot ve a te or on w , so we ot te he od rm ly .
we an pt ne of he on - te ng es om he et ss ( 23 ) to is sk or se he on in ( 23 ) to de a is - gs ep to se nd er pt or ct me er of ew ns nd he ng ts .
we se to se a ic te lo on of he od .
ce he er of ew es is ed , we st le he ew es in w as ed ow .
en z , le w we ly le ch of he ts in w at nd to on - ro es nd op ll ts at nd to ll - ro es .
ce we do ot ve a te or on w , we ot ly le w om ts or .
if ( ) is he it , we pt he ry ng ck om ( 23 ) to ve a bs er or he es of w .
if ( ) is he ic on , no ch ck ts nd we rt to ng a is - gs ep or ch ht in ch we se a ew ht om a al on ed nd he ld ne .
rs we an so ce te rs on he rs nd w nd er - rm or ce on em .
we se he ch om ( 23 ) or ng of .
re 23 : es nd ng ns or ic ta .
in ( a ) , we ow es at ld be ed by a nt - ss el at en es he on ix in ( b ) .
te es ne es , ck es ro es , nd ay es ld ut es .
in ( c ) , we ow he re ix of ur er ic et ng th he ng ns in ( d ) .
( e ) ws he re ix of a ly en le om ur bs er .
ch i as ve .
er , en we le z , we st te
in he se of le ns , we an le wi en z ly or
pr ( ik = ik , ( w , y ) m
pr ( y ik = 23 , ik , w i ) .
in he ll el , we st so te ( i , i
by ng on se , he te ns or z nd w i ke he me rm , ut th on ( 23 ) ed or he c , ai , bi , ci ) re od .
en we on on z nd w i , he or es or ( i , i nt nd an be ed om he es in ( 23 ) .
c , ai , bi , ci ) m
on ls te he se of ng wn he er , rs or he bp en ix ly ue to he ly ge te ce ll of al ma .
en if we ed z to ve k ns , re re 3n k al re es .
in an rt to re he ce er , we an nt he bs er or z by ng it - ge le es as ed in ( 23 ) as ll as rm ng or ng to th ut he od .
er , we nd at he st nt nt me om ng a od on .
a ey ht at as ed in on 23 is at he ic el is a al se of ur el in ch ch ty ly as a le re .
ic ls ve en wn to rm ll or al rk is , so ey em ke a le ay to ze he re ix .
in he ts on , we re he ce of a om on to ne in ch z is ed th a ix ed by he te al el ( rm ) .
to et ur on nt , we an he bs er or he rm or ly 23 ns nd ed he ng ss ts to ed z .
we st ly ze he hs nd es of ur el on ic ta , ab - ng at we an nd ot ct om it .
we en re ur el st wo ss - ed ve ls , he te al el ( rm ) ( 23 ) nd he ed ip ic el ( sb ) ( 23 ) , on wo ts om he al rm er nd a ps ip et , ng at ur el es er an he st of se ls on se ts .
23 ic ta
we st us on he ve ce of ur el .
we ed he ic el to wo ry le ic ts ed om wn es .
se ts re le gh at he ic el ld in 3% cy on ld - ut ta , ut re nt gh to ss he ve cs of he nt es ed .
in ne et , he es re he ss - ed es en in re 23 ( a ) nd in he er , we ed he es in re 23 ( c ) .
he ns ed om se es an be en in re 23 ( b ) nd re 23 ( d ) , ly .
on th ts , we ed z nd w ly .
th he ry le , ss - ed el , 3% of he ed re es re al to he ng re ix th er 3% ng by a le it .
er , on he er et , ly 3% of he es re at st a le it nt an he ue ix .
it is ot he se at he er 3% of he es re ad es , gh .
a ly en le of z is wn in re 23 ( e ) .
gh is ix is nt om he ue ng es , th he te ht ix it ts st as ll as he ue re ix .
se ts ow at le ur nt re ch is le to rn es at in he ta ll , ue to le ns en ts of es nd ts , he es es ll ot in al nd to le es .
er , we an ct he ed es to do a od ob ng he ta .
is so es at re re ny al ma in he re ce , er ng he ed or od on .
23 ti - al ts
in he al rm er , he rm as ed to al ts ( 23 ) .
se de a et ng 23 ns of 23 es ( ch as ts to nd ts ) ng th 23 en es of he es ( 23 ) nd a et ng 23 ip ps of 23 le in he ra be in al ia ( 23 ) .
ee ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) or re ls on he ts .
ur al in ng he nt re al el to se ts as to te he ss of ur hm en ed to wo ed ss - ed ms , he rm nd he sb , nd to te he ss of ur ll hm .
or he ra et , we ad no wn es .
or he es et , xp = xc as he et of wn es of he es nd x as he ry ce ty ix ed in on 23 .
as ed in he ic ta on , he ed es do ot ly ve ny er - le ng , so we ct es to a ve on .
or ch et , we ld ut 3% of he ta ng ng nd we rt he uc , he ea er he oc ( er er - ng ic ) ve , or he ld - ut ta ( 23 ) .
we rt ts or ng a al et of es or ll ns as ed in on 23 ch we er to as al as ll as ts en a nt et of es is ly ed or ch on nd en he cs of ll ns re ed er , ch we er to as le .
in on , we ed ng ur er or he nt re al el th er a om re ix ( rm nd ) or ss - ed es om he rm ( rm w / rm ) .
we an ur er or 23 ns or ch on ng a ic ng on ( gh ts ng he it re ar ) , ng ut he st 23 es as rn - in .
ch od as en ve om ts .
le 23 : uc on he es nd ip ts .
ld es he st ce .
rm w / rm 23 23
es al ra le ra al
ts of se ts re in le 23
as an be en , he rm th ss - ed on ut - ms th he rm nd sb .
on he al ns ( le ) , he rm th om on so es ll , ng he rm on on th ts .
er , he om on es ly at ng he al es ue to he ng of es nd he ts or ch of he ns .
is ts he ce of er on .
to on - te at he es re ng , ut at en ut em , ur el es ll , we an he al rm th ss - ed on ut es on he es et nd he uc ed to 23 23 , ch is ll he st ce .
on he es ta , he nt re el ed on ge 23 - 23 es en ed th he rm nd 23 - 23 th a om on .
on he ip ta , it ed 23 - 23 es en ed th he rm nd 23 - 23 en ed ly .
( a ) ue ns
( b ) re ns
( c ) rm ns
( d ) sb ns
re 23 : ns or ll ms on he ps ip et .
in ( a ) , a te ry ns wo le te a er er .
in ( b - d ) , he er an ry , he re ly at hm ed he ng le ld ct .
23 ng ps ip
as ur al le , ng he ss of he nt re al el , we ed he ip ta om he ps et ed in ( 23 ) .
is et ns a st of ll rs nd rs om ps 23 - 23
we ok he 23 rs ho ad ed th he st er le nd ed at ir ip on .
he ic or ph an be en in re 23 ( a ) .
we in ed ls or he nt re al el , he rm nd he sb ng on 3% of he ta nd ng he ng 3% as a st et .
or he nt re el , ce he ip ip is ic , we ed a ll , ic ht ix w as ed in on 23 .
we id ot se ny es .
a on of he ns or ch of se ms an be en in re 23 ( b - d ) .
re 23 ly es me he ce in ss .
ic ls re ed to up rs to es , nd es at ll rs of es ct ly .
or on , we ve ed he rs by he ps he rm nd .
se ps an ly be en in re 23 ( c ) .
he sb , by ng al ip is ot as ve .
er , on is et , he rm ed it .
he nt re al el is he st ve of he ls nd is le to ch re ly ce he ip rk .
he nt re al el so ly ed he rm nd sb .
we in an ur er or 23 es ng th er a om re ix or a ss - ed re ix om he rm nd ed he uc on he ld - ut ta .
ng ve ts or ch od , he rm w / rm ed st th an uc of 23 , he rm nd as xt th 23 nd ch er re he rm at 23 nd he sb at 23 ( ll at st 23 ) .
on ge , he nt re al el ed 23 - 23 es en ed th he rm nd 23 - 23 es en ed ly .
we ve ed he ic nt re al el , an ve ic el or ng nt ry es in al es .
is el es es om he al rk is ty , ch ve ed re - ed ds or ng rk ta , th as om an cs in er to ly er he er of nt ry es at he me me we er he es of ch ty nd ow se es ct .
ng ss - ed es er nt re at is a al se of at an be ed by is el .
as a ce , ur el is ly re ve an se es , nd an se he ns ed by se es or on .
we ed ly at he ic nt re el ms ll at nk on on al nt ts , ng ts at re ly ed to ue or ss - ed es .
he ss of is el an be ed to ts er ns , ch ke it le to re le ns of on ch er an ss - ed ls .
ts tm as ed by he u . s .
nt of gy ct de - 23 - 23 gh ce re al ry .
lg as ed by nt er 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 om he ir ce ce of ic ch .
