one of the rst ems nts ust lve as hey are ing age is ord ion : ord ies in ous ech .
out 23% of ter - ces ted at ish - ing nts ist of iso - ted rds ( ent & ind , 123 ) , but ere is no ous way for ren to now rom the set ich ces ese are .
nce lti - ord ces ner - lly ave no ent ses een rds , ren ust be ing her ues to ify ord ies .
in act , ere is nce hat nts use a ide nge of eak ues for ord ion .
ese ues ude tac -
* ing hor .
tel . : 123 123 123 123
e - ail ses : inf . ed . ac . uk , ail . com ( s
123 - 123 / $ - see ont ter 123 ier b . v .
all hts ved .
ics ( tys , zyk , uce , & gan , 123 ) , nic ion ( zyk , hne , & man , 123 ) , cal ( ess ) rns ( zyk , ton , & ome , 23; gan , amo , & vis , 123 ) , cts of ion ( son & zyk , 123 ) , and cal ies in the ces of les und in ech ( ran , lin , & ort , 123 ) .
his ast rce of ion can be sed in a age - ent way , and ems to be sed by nts ier han ost her ues , by the age of 123 ths ( sen & ran , 123 ) .
ese cts ave sed ome ers to ose hat ies sed on cal ing ion are a ial rst tep in ing ord ion ( sen & ran , 123 ) , and ave ked a eat eal of est in ese ies ( lin , ran , & ort , 23; ran , new - ort , & lin , 23; ran et al . , 23; oro , ett , & oto - aco , 123 ) .
in his per , we use nal
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
ing ues to ine ome of the ons ing uch of the rch on cal ord
ost ous ork on cal ord ion is sed on the ion hat ons rom one syl - ble or eme to the ext end to be ess ble at ord ies han hin rds ( ris , 23; saf - ran et al . , 123 ) .
ral rch has own hat in - nts are eed ive to his ind of ity , as red by ics uch as nal ies ( lin et al . , 23; ran et al . , 123 ) .
his rch , ver , is tic as to the sms by ich in - nts use cal rns to orm ord nta - ion .
a ber of ers in oth ive nce and ter nce ave ped hms sed on nal ies , ual lar ics of ity in der to ify how ese ics can be sed lly to ify rds or ord ies ( ndo & lee , 23; hen & ams , 23; eng , hen , eng , & eng , 23; ley , 123 ) .
ere , we ake a ent ach : we eek to ify the ons the ner ust ake out the ure of age in der to tly ent nat - ral age put .
ons out ity at ord ies are ent ith two ent nds of ons out hat tes a ord : her a ord is a nit hat is lly ent of her its , or it is a nit hat lps to ict her its ( but to a ser ree han the ing of a ord cts its end ) .
in ost ial lan - age nts on ord ion , ion is ted tly by ing uli ugh dom ( or ear - dom ) ion of nce rds .
his ind of dom ion is ten ces - ary for led nts ith man cts , and has een ful in ing hat ans are ive to the cal ies in uch mly ted ces .
ver , it sly cts way rom any of the ies of ral age , ere ies ist not nly in the ips een sub - ord its , but lso in the ips een rds ves .
we now hat ans are ble to use sub - ord ies to gin to act ds; it is atu - ral to ask her ing to ese nds of ies is ent for a cal ner to eed ith ord ion in a ore tic ing .
in his per , we use ter ons to ine ing rom ral , her han ial , age put .
we ask hat nds of rds are ied by a ner who mes hat rds are lly ent , or ( ely ) by a ner who mes as ell hat rds are ive of ter rds .
we ate his ion by ing two ent ian els of ord ion ing ach of ese two ent ons .
ese els can be een as eal ers : hey are de - ned to ave lly ven the ble put ata , in his ase a pus of lly bed ild - di -
ing our eal ing ach , we nd in our rst set of ons hat the ner who mes hat rds are lly ent its nds to ent
the pus , ing nly co - ing ces of rds as gle rds .
ese lts eem to ict ith ose of ral ier els ( der , 23; ent , 23; man , 123 ) , ere tic ion was not und ven hen rds ere med to be ent .
ver , we gue ere hat ese ous lts are ing .
ugh ach of ese ers is sed on a tic del hat de - nes an mal ion to the ion lem , we ide oth cal and cal nce hat the ons und by ese ers are not the pti - mal nes .
her , hey are the ult of ons sed by the lar ing hms yed .
her cal sis ows hat ion is the mal ion to the ing lem for any rea - bly ned del hat mes cal pen - nce een rds .
ing on to our ond set of ons , we nd hat ing the ner to her ion out ord - to - ord ies tly ces the lem of ion .
the pus is ted in a uch ore ate , ult - ike way .
ese lts ndi - ate hat , for an eal ner to ify rds sed on cal rns of mes or les , it is por - ant to ake nto unt hat ent ble pat - rns may cur her hin rds or oss rds .
his ind of ual ing is a ult of the cal ure of age , ere ble rns cur at any ent els .
a ner who ers ict - ity at nly one vel ( sub - ord its hin rds ) ill be ess ful han a ner who ers lso the ity of ger its ( rds ) hin eir sen - ial ext .
the ond , ore ced ion of the cal rns in the put ads to ter
our ork has ant ons for the der - ing of man ord ion .
we how hat suc - ons hat the ner kes out the ure of rds .
ese ons ain the nds of fer - ces hat are ade hen the ner is ted ith tic put .
our eal ing sis ows us to ine the nds of nts hat are ded to suc - lly ify rds , and sts hat nts or ung ren may eed to unt for ore tle cal ef - cts han ave lly een sed in the ure .
to ate , ere is tle ect nce hat ery ung lan - age ers ate eal ers .
ess , his ion is not ely ded , ven the ing nce in vor of ans as eal ers in her ins or at her ges ( ank , ter , ans - hka , ths , & aum , 23; ulz , itz , & ths , 23; xu & aum , 123 ) .
in der to her ine her nts ave as eal ers , or the ays in ich hey art rom the eal , it is ant to rst and hat ior to ect rom an eal ner .
the cal lts ted ere ide a ion of his ior , and we ope hat hey ill ide ion for ure tal ork ing the hip een man ers and eal ers .
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
the der of his per is zed as ows .
rst , we iey iew the dea of nal ies and how hey ate to the ion of rds , and ide ome und on the tic ing ach ken ere .
we raw a ion een two nds of tic del - sed ems ose sed on axi - mum - ood and ian ion and gue in fa - vor of the ian ach .
we uss in ome ail the ths and ses of the del - sed dy - mic ing ( bdp - 123 ) tem , a ian ner bed by ent ( 123 ) .
ext , we uce our own ian ram del and ing thm , ich ess ome of the ses of bdp - 123
we ide the lts of ons ing his del and are hem to the lts of sly sed els .
we hen ize our ram ing lts ing ddi - nal cal and cal nts , ing ome eep cal ies een our ram mod - el and bdp - 123
lly , we end our del to rpo - ate ram ies , ent the lts of his ram del , and ude by ing the ons of our ork .
rds and nal ies
the ion of how nts gin to ent rds rom ous ech has red a eat eal of re - rch ver the ars ( zyk , 123 ) .
ile any fer - ent ues ave een own to be ant , ere we cus on one lar cue : cal ies in the se - ces of nds hat cur in ral age .
the dea hat ord and eme ies may be cov - red ugh the use of cal ion is not new , but lly ese ods ere een ily as ana - tic ols for sts ( ris , 123 , 123 ) .
ore re - tly , nce hat nts are ive to cal ies een les has ent ght to the dea hat his ind of ion may lly be sed by man ers for rly ord ion ( ran et al . , 23; sen & ran , 123 ) .
in lar , re - rch on cal ord ion has sed on the ion of nal ies een sub - ord its ( e . g . , nts or les ) .
the nal oba - ity rom ( say ) ble x to ble y is ply the con - nal ity of y ven x .
in ral age , ere is a ral ncy rds wer nal bil - ies at ord ies han hin rds ( ris , 23; ran et al . , 123 ) , a ncy ich nts eem ble to oit in der to ent ord - ike its rom con - ous ech ( lin et al . , 23; ran et al . , 123 ) .
ile her ues are lso ant for ord nta - ion , and may in act ake nce ver nal ies in der nts , nal ies eem to be one of the est ues hat nts are ble to use for his ask ( son & zyk , 23; sen & ran , 123 ) .
uch of the tal ork ted to ing ord ion and ted tic sks has fo - sed on ing the nds of cal ion hat man ers are or are not ive to , e . g . , ran - nal ies vs .
ies ( lin et al . , 123 ) ,
les vs .
mes ( ort , iss , lin , & nna - in ion ) , ent vs .
non - ent pen - ies ( ort & lin , 123 ) , and the ays in ich nal ies act ith her nds of ues ( son & zyk , 23; sen & ran , 123 , 123 ) .
in ion , any ers ave red the ent to ich ord ion sed on nsi - nal ies can be wed as a ial ase of ore ral ern - or nce - ing sms hat ate ver a nge of ive ins ( eel , ort , & lin , 23; ser & lin , 123 ) .
a ion hat has ved ess cit ion is how the ion nal ies tes to the ion of rds .
nal ies are a rty of the ies een rds ( or its hin rds ) , but ely it is the rds ves , her han the ies , hat are of est to the age ner / it ves us , hen , to der hat ble ies of rds ( or , ore ely , ord se - ces ) uld ive ise to the rns of nal ies hat are lly sed in the ure , i . e .
wer ies at ord ies and her ies hin rds .
ven a con of rds , one way hat the ard rns of nal ies can ise is by oos - ing rds tly at dom rom the con and ing hem her to orm a nce .
to a rst ion , his is the ure hat is lly sed to ate uli for ost of the nts ned ove . 123 ere are any ood ons to ate eri - tal uli in his way , lly hen the cus of re - rch is on nal ies : ing rds at dom ols for ble ing cts and her con - nds , and ads to ple and tic rns of ran - nal ies .
ver , ere is rly her way we uld ate a nce of rds , by ing ach ord ned on the ous ord or rds .
end - ing on the gth of the ord - to - ord ies , ran - nal ies een rds may be low or igh .
in ral , if the gth of the ies een rds is ble , hen in a non - ent nce of rds , ord ies ill ill end to be ted ith wer nal ies ( nce any irs of rds ill not be hly ent ) .
ver , ere ill lso be ord ies ith ely igh nal ies ( ere two rds are hly ted , as in ber cky or ats a ) .
the els hat we lop in his per are ned to ine the lts of ing ese two ent ons out the ure of age : hat rds are lly ent its , or hat hey are dic - ive its .
in ing out the ces een arn - ers ing ach of ese two nds of ons , we ame the sue in rms of the ace of tic oth -
123 the rds in tal uli are ver sen ely tly , due to ons nst ate ion of rds .
hen the con is all , his ads to ant ons rom nce .
ver , as the con ize ows , ces out ion ill ome ore and ore lar to uly ent
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
ses ( ely , ars ) hat ach ner ers .
no - ice hat a ner who mes hat ces are med rom ces of tly sen rds is ore re - ted han a ner who mes hat rds may pre - ict her rds .
the ond ner is ble to arn ars hat ibe her ive or non - ive ces of rds , ile the rst ner can nly arn ars for non - ive ces of rds .
if rds are uly ent , hen the rst ner may ave an age due to the nce of the ger int , use his ner has a uch ler ace of the - ses to der .
on the her and , the ond ner ill ave an age in the ase ere rds are not nde - ent , use the ner who mes nce ill ver be ble to rge on the ect sis .
ore ing our ion of ese two nds of ers , we rst ine our ral ach and pro - ide a ary of ted ork .
tic els for ord ion
ral ork in the ein of ran et al .
( 123 ) has ded a lth of ion ing the nds of ics man ers are ive to , at hat ges , and to hat ree ive to her nds of ion ues .
nal ing des a ary hod of ion hat can be sed to est cic ses out how cal ion ght be sed lly to ify ord ies or hat ing nal lem is ing ved .
ing the ogy of arr ( 123 ) , ese two nds of ues - ons can be ted by ing els at ( pec - ely ) the mic vel or nal vel of the ion tem .
lly , ers ate lgo - mic - vel ons by ing hms hat are ved to ate ely ble cha - sms of ion ing .
mic - vel ap - hes to ord ion ude a ety of ral ork els ( len et al . , 23; rns & ill - ock , 23; sen , len , & erg , 23; man , 123 ) as ell as ral ing hms sed on ran - nal ies , ual ion , and lar sta - ics ( ndo & lee , 23; hen & ams , 23; eng et al . , 23; ley , 123 ) ( ith ost of the ter oup ing rom the ter nce ure ) .
in ast to ese als , our ork des a nal - vel sis of the ord ion lem .
a nal - vel ach ses on ing the lem ing the ner and min - ing the gic ugh ich it can be ved .
for ems of ion uch as ose ing the age ner , ity ory des a ral ing nal - vel els .
a tic is a set of ive cal nts ing the als of the ing ess and the nds of ion hat ill be sed to eve hem .
of rse , ese ive nts ust be red ith ome thm hat can be sed to eve the cic oal , but lly the thm is not een as the cus of rch .
her , nal - vel ons of - ten ake the orm of eal ner ses , ing the
ior of a ner who ves lly ven the ons of the del . 123
ery lly , we can iew the oal of a age ear - ner as ing ome act ion of the ob - ved ata ( e . g . , a mar ) hat ill low vel tic put to be tly ted , and vel out - put to be tly ced .
any ent nta - ons are lly ble , so the ner ust ave ome way to ine ich ion is ost ely to be ect .
tic els ide a ral way to ake his ion , by ing a ity ion ver ent zed ons ven the ved ata .
a ner who is ble to tly ify his ior ion ver ses can use his ion to ess ure put and put in an mal way ( i . e . , in a way hat is as lar as ble to the ect ing ess the ult mar ) .
der his iew , hen , the ior ion ver ars is the ome of the ing ess .
how oes the ner go out ing the ior ion ? yes ule lls us hat the ity of a zed mar h ven the ved ata d can be ted as
ere the sum in the tor ges ver all oth - ses 123 hin the sis ace .
ere , djh ( own as the ood ) is the ity of the ved ata ven a lar sis , and lls us how ell hat oth - sis ins the ata .
ph ( the ior ity of h ) lls us how ood a tic sis h is , ess of any ata .
the ior can be wed as a ing ias or ure of tic ess : ses ith igh ior rob - ity may be ted sed on ess nce han ses ith low ior ity .
yes ule tes hat the ior ity hjd is nal to the uct of the ood and the ior , ith the ina - tor ing as a ing ant to ure hat hjd ums to one ver all ses .
the ner can ute the ior ies of ent ses by val - ing ach one ing to its ory wer ( eli - ood ) and the ers ior ons .
yes ule ers the ion of how to ine the ior ity of a sis if the ior rob - ity and ood are own , but it oes not ell us how to ute ose rms in the rst ace .
we urn rst to the ion of the ood .
lly , the ood is ted by ing a ive del : a tic
123 a ote on ogy : the ord del ely ses two ted but ( tly ) nct ses .
it can be sed to ibe her ( 123 ) a sal out the ure of ing or its ion ( as in ist del , lar del ) ; or ( 123 ) a cic mat - cal ent ing the ess ing a set of ata ( as in tic del , ive del ) .
a tic del ( ond nse ) her ith its ing thm can be wed as an nce of a ing del ( rst nse ) .
to oid ion , we ill lly use the erm del nly for the ond nse , and the rms tem or ner to ibe the lly ted ion of a tic del and ing thm .
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
ess for ing the ved ata ven the oth - sis der ion .
as a ple non - tic xam - ple , ine the ata d sts of the lts of 123 oin ips and we ish to ine the ity of d ven ses h hat fer in the ity of ing ads .
we ume a ive del in ich ach ion is the ult of ing the ame oin , and hat oin ays has ity p of ing on ads tly of any ous mes .
the set of ses der der - ion sts of all ble ues for p .
we ore ave djh p 123 pnt , ere nh and nt are the ber of ads and ils ved in a lar se - nce of ips .
mum - ood ion
a ard hod of ing a tic ive del for ing is to orm mum - ood sti - ion , i . e . , to ose the sis ^h hat zes the lue of the ood ion .
his is ent to ing the sis ith mum ior oba - ity , ing a orm ior ion ver oth - ses ith ect to the ven ion .
in the oin ip ple , it is asy to how ing ary cal - lus hat the ood is zed hen h nh hus , if we rve a nce ing of our ils and six ads , the mum - ood ate for h is
for ore lex ive els uch as ose typ - lly sed in age ing , it is lly ble to ify the mum - ood sis lly .
if the ber of ble ses is all , it may be ble to tly ute the ood for ach ssi - ble sis and ose the est one .
ver , in gen - ral , it ill be ary to ign ome ort of thm for ing ugh the ace of ses out ing all of hem .
the eal thm uld be one
hat is eed to nd the lly mal sis .
in any ses , ver , ate rch hms are sed .
ese hms lly ork by ing the pti - mal sis hin ome cal ion of the rch ace .
ate rch hms may be sed for cal ons ( hen an act ure is not own , as in son ( 123 ) ) or for cal ons ( if the re - her hes to ate lar ons out man ing , as in orn , ths , & rro ( 123 ) ) .
in her ase , ain ses are ded rom ion by the thm elf .
tly , the use of an ate rch ure can ake a ely nal - vel sis ult .
the nds of ons ade by the ner are ned oth by the cit nts ied by the tic del , and the cit nts ied by the rch ure .
les of his ype of ing tem are de - bed by man ( 123 ) and der ( 123 ) .
the els ing ese ems are ery ar; we ibe nly ans ork in ail .
man ses a hod of ord nta - ion sed on mum - ood ion .
he dis - ses ree ent ive els of ing ty; we cus our sis on the est of ese , ugh our ent can be ded to all ree .
his del is a ard ram del , i . e . , it mes hat rds are ted tly at ved ata sts of a pus of lly ran - bed ild - ted ech , ere nce ies ( ing to ses in the put ) are own , but ord ies are own ( see fig .
the lis - tic del ing his tem bes how to ner - ate a pus ven u , the ber of ces in the us; the hed bol $ , ich is sed to ark nce es; and r , the mic bol pha - bet ( ich oes not ude $ ) :
an rpt rom the ing of the pus sed as put to ans ( 123 ) ord ion tem , ing ( a ) the ual put pus and ( b ) the ing ard hic ion .
the pus was lly red by ent and ght ( 123 ) ing ata rom ein - ner ( 123 ) , and was lso sed as put to nts ( 123 ) bdp - 123 tem .
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
eat u mes :
eat til $ is ted : 123
ate the ext ord , w , ith ity pww .
ate $ ith ity p$ .
ere pw is ome ity ion ver r , the set of all ble rds .
as ach ord is ted , it is con - ted nto the sly ted nce of rds .
no ary ker is ded ess the end - of - nce ker , $ , is ted .
der his del , the ity of ing rds 123 .
wn as a gle ter -
and the ity of ing the ted ter - nce u is und by ing ver all ble ces of rds hat uld be ted to orm u :
the ity of the ire pus is the uct of the ies of the ual ces .
the sis ace for his del sts of all the ble ign - nts of ity ues to rds and the nce i . e . , ble ues for p$ and the ers of pw .
ice hat in the sis ace ust ned , ome ces of pw may ign non - ero ity to nly a - ite set of ial rds .
ent ses ill ave ent zes , i . e . , ent ers of rds ill ave non - ero ity .
lly , ver , no fer - nce is ven to ses of any lar ize the mum - ood ion tes hat we uld ose ver sis gns the est bil - ity to the ved ata .
hat is the mum - ood sis der his del ? it is ard to how hat , in ral , the mum - ood ion for a del is the bil - ity ion hat is est to the cal ion ( ive ies ) of ons in the pus , ere the nce is ted by an ion tic ure led the ler nce ( hop , 123 , p .
123 , ter al . ) .
in the ove del , ere is one sis hat is ble to tch the cal ion of the pus tly .
his sis ats ach nce as a gle ord , ith ity ual to the cal ity of hat nce in the pus , and mes p$ 123
in her rds , his ion zes the ire ata set out ing ces at all , and gns ero ity to any ved nce .
ely , any ion hat oes ize ord ies ill ire p$ < 123 , ich ans hat ome ved ter - ces ill ave non - ero ity ose hat can be ted by , for ple , ing two ved ter - ces , or ing the zed rds nto vel
ngs .
nce ome ity ass is ted to ese ved ces , the ity of the ob - ved ata ust be wer han in the ase ere p$ 123 and no ion is ble .
for a mum - ood ner ing the del in eq .
( 123 ) , hen , nly a ial ion ill be und un - ess ome int is ced on the nds of ses hat are red .
lly , ver , his ent oes not end on the lar orm of pw sed in eq .
( 123 ) , ere rds are med to be ted pen - ent of ext .
any her ble ons ver rds uld eld the ame ult .
man , for ple , nts two her els in ich the ram ion pw is ced ith a ram or ram tri - ion : her han ing rds ent of con - ext , ach ord is ted ned on her one or two ous rds .
hat is , the ram del nes
wn$ 3j$
lly , the son hat all of ese els eld the ame mum - ood ion ( an ted cor - pus ) is hat hey are wed to der ses ith ary ers of ems .
hen ing ses ith ent els of ity ( rre - ing ere to the ber of ord pes in the oth - sis ) , a mum - ood ner ill lly fer a ore lex sis ver a ple one .
his ads to the lem of ing , ere the ner ses a sis hat ts the ved ata ery ell , but ner - zes ery rly to new ata .
in the ase of ord men - ion , the ion of ete ion ows the ner to t the ved ata tly .
nce we now hat his is not the ion und by ans ers , we ust ude hat the thm he ses to rch the ace of ble ses ust be pos - ing nal nts ond ose of the els ves .
it uld be ear rom the ous ion hat his is not the ach ted ere , nce it ren - ers nts cit and ult to ine .
hel - ers ( 123 ) mum - ood ing tem ses an cit nal int to ize cal ems hat are too ong .
his ach is a tep in the ght ion , but is ess lly led han ian del - in ich a ( non - orm ) ior ion ver ses is sed hin the del elf to ain ing .
we now iew ral of the ian els hat ved as ion for our own ork .
ian els
in the ous ion , we ued hat ned mum - ood ion is a oor way to ose een ses ith ent ies .
in yes - ian ing , the ect of the ood can be ter - ced by ing a ior ion hat ors ler ses .
ler ses ill end not to t the ved ata as ell , but ill end to ize ore lly to vel ata .
by ing oth the ood and ior in ing the ior bil - ity of ach sis , ian ers lly oid
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
the ind of ing hat mum - ood ers ter .
the ade - off een t and ion ill end on tly how the ior is ed; we now ibe ral ods hat ave een sed to ene ors in ous ian els .
aps the ost ell - own ork for ing ian els is own as mum ion gth ( mdl ) ( nen , 123 ) , and is ied by the ork of de ken ( 123 ) and ent and ght ( 123 ) .
mdl is a lar ion of ian ing hat has een sed lly in a ber of her eas of age ion as ell ( utz & gus , 23; dow - man , 23; son , 23; ith , 23; ter & son , 123 ) .
the sic dea ind mdl is to ene ome ing eme hat can be sed to ode the cor - pus nto a ore act ion .
in ord men - ion , for ple , a ode ght ist of a ist of cal ems ong ith a ary ion for ach one .
ith ate ces for the cal ems and ary ons ( ith ter ons ned to ore mon rds ) , the gth of the pus uld be ced by ing ach ord ith its ary ode .
in his ork , the ers ses are ent pos - ble ing mes .
the mum ion gth ple tes hat the mal sis is the one hat zes the ned gth , in its , of the sis it - elf ( the ook ) and the ded pus .
ing lts rom ion ory , it can be own hat ing a sis ing the mdl ple is ent to oos - ing the mum a ori ( map ) sis the sis ith the est ior ity der a ian del ere the ior ity of a oth - sis ses lly ith its gth .
rds , mdl nds to a lar ice of ior dis - ion ver ses , ere ses are red if hey can be bed ore tly .
ugh mdl els can in ple uce ood ord ion lts , ere are no ard rch hms for ese nds of els , and it is ten dif - ult to ign ent del - cic hms .
for ple , ent and ght ( 123 ) ere ced to mit eir sis to a ery ort pus ( out 123 ces ) due to ncy rns .
in ter rch , ent vel - ped her ian del for ord ion ith a ore ent rch thm ( ent , 123 ) .
he med his tem del - sed mic ing ( bdp - 123 ) . 123 nce we ill be ing to his del at ous nts out his per , we now ibe bdp - 123 in
ike els ped hin the mdl ork , ere ses ond to ble ing eth - ods , bdp - 123 mes hat the ses der der - ion are ual ces of rds , ere ach ord is a nce of mic ols .
the put pus sts of lly bed ces of ild - ted ech , as in fig .
ome ord ces , hen ate - ted her to ove ord ies , ill orm ex -
123 the 123 in bdp - 123 was ded as a ion ber , ugh ent
ver ped any ter ons of the tem .
tly the ing of ols und in the pus , ile ers ill not .
the ity of the ved ata ven a lar zed nce of rds ill ore her be ual to 123 ( if the ted rds orm the pus ) or 123 ( if not ) .
tly , nly ses hat are ent ith the pus ust be red .
for ach ble ion of the pus , the ior ity of hat ion ill be tly por - nal to its ior ity .
the ior ity , in urn , is ted ing a ive del .
his del mes hat the nce of rds in the pus was ted in a nce of our eps : 123
tep 123 : ate the ber of pes hat ill be in the
tep 123 : ate a ken ncy for ach cal ype .
tep 123 : ate the mic ion of ach ype ( ept for the gle hed ter - nce ary ype , $ ) .
tep 123 : ate an ing for the set of ens .
ach tep in his ess is ted ith a ity ion ver the ble mes of hat tep , so her ese our eps ene the ior ity tri - ion ver all ble ted ora .
we uss the cic ons sed in ach tep in dix b; ere it is ent to ote hat ese ons end to ign her ity to ons ing wer and ter cal ems , so hat the ner ill fer to lit ces nto rds .
to rch the ace of ble ons of the pus , ent ops an ent ine thm .
the thm kes a gle ass ugh the pus , seg - ing one nce at a ime sed on the nta - ons und for all ous ces .
the ine ure of his thm is ded to ide a ore tic ion of man ord ion han ier tch ing hms ( ent & ght , 23; de arc - ken , 123 ) , ich ume hat the ire pus of ata is ble to the ner at nce ( i . e . , the ner may ter - ate ver the ata any mes ) .
in the der of his per , we ill ibe two new ian els of ord ion red , in art , by nts ork .
ike ent , we use a ive mod - el - sed ian ork to lop our ers .
ver , as we ove in dix b , our rst ( ram ) del is lly ery lar to the bdp - 123 mod - el .
ver , our ork ers rom nts in two cts .
rst , our els are ore ble , ich ows us to ore ily ate the cts of ent ing ons .
in ory , ach tep of nts del can be lly ied , but in ice the cal ent of the del and the ons ary for the rch ure ake it ult to ify the del in any ing way .
in lar , the rth tep mes a orm ion ver ngs , ich
123 our ion ves a all nge rom ent ( 123 ) , ing the der of eps 123 and 123
his nge kes no nce to the del , but des a ore ral ing of eps for ses of our sis in dix b .
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
tes a ram int hat not ily be ged .
we do not ose hat ent was lly ted in his ice of a ram del , or hat he uld be op - sed to ing ord - to - ord ies , ely hat the ing ces ble to him ere ted by the cal ues ble at the ime of his ork .
in his per , we ake use of ore ble ent ues hat low us to lop oth ram and bi - ram els of ord ion and ore the fer - ces in ing hat ult .
the ond key ion of his per ies in our fo - cus on ing the lem of ord ion at the nal vel by ing , to the est of our ity , hat the nly nts on the ner are ose sed by the del elf .
we ave ady own hat the mod - el - sed hes of man ( 123 ) and hel - der ( 123 ) are ned by eir ice of rch ms; in the ing ion we ate hat the ate rch ure sed by ent ( 123 ) nts his ner , too , rom ing the mal ion der his del .
ugh in ple one uld lop a ian del hin the mdl or bdp ame - rks hat uld unt for ord - to - ord ies , the ted rch res uld dly be ven ore lex han ose red for the ent ram els , and hus ven ess ely to ify pti - mal ons .
use our own ork is sed on ore re - ent ian ues , we are ble to lop rch res ing a ard ass of hms own as kov ain nte rlo ods ( lks , son , & ter , 123 ) , ich uce les rom the pos - ior ion ver ses .
we ide nce hat the ons ied by our hms are eed mal or ear - mal , ich ows us to raw clu - ons ing eal ver nts and to oid the ing cts of ad hoc rch res .
ram del
ive del
ike bdp - 123 , our els ume hat the ses der ion by the ner are ble nta - ons of the pus nto ces of rds .
ord se - ces hat are ent ith the pus ave a ood of 123 , ile ers ave a ood of 123 , so the ior ity of a ion is ned by its ior ity .
lso as in bdp - 123 , we ute the ior ity of a ion by ing hat the nce of rds in the ion was ted ing to a lar tic ive ess .
let w 123 .
. w n be the rds in the ion .
set - ing ide the ing tor of nce ies , our ram del mes hat the ith ord in the se - nce , wi , is ted as ows :
( 123 ) ide if wi is a vel cal tem .
. x m ) for wi .
if so , ate a mic orm ( mes
if not , ose an ing cal orm for wi .
we ign ies to ach ble ice as ows :
, pwi is not vel n ( 123 ) pwi is vel 123 ( 123 ) a .
pwi 123 .
. x m j wi is vel b .
pwi j wi is not vel n
ere 123 is a ter of the del , n is the ber of sly ted rds ( i 123 ) , n is the ber of mes cal tem has red in ose n rds , and p# is the ity of ing a ord ary .
ken her , ese ons eld the ing ion ver wi ven the ous rds wi 123 .
. w 23g :
i 123 123
i 123 123
ere we use 123 to fer to the ram eme ibu - ion in tep 23a .
( the p# and 123 p# ors in his ibu - ion ult rom the ess sed to ate a ord rom ent mes : ter ach eme is ted , a ord ary is ted ith ity p# and the ess nds , or lse no ord ary is ted ith ity 123 p# and her eme is ted . )
we now ide ome ion for the ons hat are ilt nto his del .
rst , ice hat in tep 123 , hen n is all , the ity of ing a vel cal tem is ely rge .
as ore ord ens are ted and n ses , the ive ity of ing a vel tem ses , but ver ars ely .
his art of the del ans hat ons ith too any ent cal ems ill ave low oba - ity , ing ure for the ner to ify a seg - ion ing of ely few cal ems .
in tep 23a , we ene the ity of a vel cal tem as the uct of the ies of ach of its mes .
his res hat ery ong cal ems ill be gly red .
lly , in tep 23b , we say hat the ity of ing an nce of the cal tem is por - nal to the ber of mes has ady red .
in ef - ect , the ner mes hat a few cal ems ill end to cur ery tly , ile ost ill cur nly nce or ice .
in lar , the ion ver ord uen - ies ced by our del mes a wer - law tri - ion for rge ora ( tia , our , & are , 123 ) , the ind of ion hat is und in ral lan - age ( ipf , 123 ) .
the del we ave ust bed is an nce of a ind of del own in the cal ure as a ich - let ess ( son , 123 ) .
the let ess is com - nly sed in ian ics as a non - ric ior for ing els , and is ely ted to der - ons ( 123 ) nal del of ion ( orn et al . , 123 ) .
the let ess has two ers : the ion ter 123 and the ase ion 123
the ion ter nes how any ers ill lly be und in a ata set of a lar ize ( ere , how any ord pes for a lar ber of ens ) , and the ase ion nes the cal ics of a ter ( ere , the lar mes in a ord ype ) .
a ore led cal ent
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
of our del and its hip to the let ess is ded in dix a , but his ion ads us to re - fer to our ram del of ord ion as the let ess ( dp ) del .
so far , the del we ave bed gns ili - ies to ces of rds ere ere are no nce ies .
ver , use the put pus ins nce ies , we eed to end the del to ac - unt for hem .
in the ded del , ach sis sts of a nce of rds and nce ies , and ses are ent ith the put if ing ord ies ( but not nce ies ) lds the put pus .
to ute the ity of a nce of rds and nce ies , we ume hat his nce was ted ing the del ove , ith the ion of an tra tep : ter ach ord is ted , an nce ary ker $ is ted ith oba - ity p$ ( or not , ith ity 123 p$ ) .
for ity , we ill ess his ion of the del in the ain ody of his per , and fer the der to dix a for
we ave now ned a ive del hat ows us to ute the ity of any ion of the put pus .
we are eft ith the lem of nce , or lly ing the est ity nta - ion rom ong all ies .
we sed a hod own as bbs ing ( man & man , 123 ) , a ype of kov ain nte rlo thm ( lks et al . , 123 ) in ich les are dly led rom eir nal ior ion ven the ent ues of all her les in the del .
bbs ing is an ive ure in ich ( ter a ber of ons sed as a urn - in iod to low the sam - ler to rge ) ach ive ion ces a ple rom the ull ior ion hjd .
our ler , the les of est are ial ord ies , ach of ich can ake on two ble val - ues , ing to a ord ary or no ord ary .
ies may be zed at dom or ing any her od; ion oes not ter nce the ler ill lly rge to ing rom the ior ion . 123 ach ion of the ler sts of ing ugh ery ble ary ion and ing its lue ned on all her ent ary nts .
nce ach set of nts to the ary les ely ter - nes a ion , ing ies is ent to ing ces of rds as our ses .
ugh bbs ing is a tch ing thm , ere the ire ata set is ble to the ner at nce , we ote hat ere are her ing ues own as cle ers ( cet , ieu , & ill , 23; orn et al . , 123 ) hat can be sed to uce
123 of rse , our int hat ion oes not ter is a cal ne; in ice , ome ons may ead to ter nce han ers , and ing hat ent ons ead to the ame lts is one way of ing for nce of the ler , as we do in dix a .
ons of the ior ion in an ine ion ( ing ach nce in urn tly nce ) .
we urn in the ral ion to the ion of how a cle ter ght be ped for our own del in the ure .
ull ils of our bbs ing thm are ded in dix a .
to ate son to ous els of ord ion , we ort lts on the ame pus sed by ent ( 123 ) and man ( 123 ) .
the ata is de - ved rom the ner pus ( ein - rat - ner , 123 ) of the des ase ( ney & now , 123 ) , ich ins hic ons of ces ted at 123 - to 123 - nth - lds .
the ata was ost - sed by ent , who ved ies and non - rds , ded tal ces not rec - ted at the ren , and ted the est of the rds nto a mic ion ing a mic tio - ary ( i . e .
ach hic orm was ays ven the ame mic orm ) .
the ing pus ins 123 ces , ith 123 , 123 ord ens and 123 un - que pes .
the age ber of rds per nce is 123 and the age ord gth ( in mes ) is 123 .
the ord ies in the pus are sed as the old ard for ion , but are not ded in the put to the tem ( ept for ord ies hat are lso nce ies ) .
the ess sed to ate his pus ans hat it is ing any of the ies of eal ild - ted ech .
not the ast of ese is the tic ity ith ich ent ens of the ame ord are pro - ced , a tor ich bly kes ord nta - ion ore ult .
on the her and , the pus is lso ing any ues ich uld aid in ion , uch as ion ion , ess , and ion .
ile his ion of ild - ted ech is hat tic , the pus oes ide a way to ate the use of ely nal ues for ion , and its ect son to her ord nta -
ion ure
for ive ion , we opt the ame mea - res sed by ent ( 123 ) and man ( 123 ) : pre - ion ( ber of ect ems und out of all ems und ) and all ( ber of ect ems und out of all ect ems ) .
ese res are ead in the nal ics ty; the ame res are ten own as acy and ess in the gni - ive nce ity ( ent & ght , 23; ris - sen et al . , 123 ) .
we lso ort lts in rms of 123 ( her mon ric sed in nal lin - ics , lso own as f - ure or f - ore ) .
123 is the geo - ric age of ion and all , ned as , and zes lts ere ion and all are ery ent .
we ort the ing res for ach del we ose :
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
ies ust be tly ied to unt as ect .
p , r , f : ion , all , and 123 on rds : oth und - lp , lr , lf : ion , all , and 123 on the con , i . e .
bp , br , bf : ion , all , and 123 on lly big - ous ies ( i . e .
nce ies are not ded in the nts ) .
as an ple , ine a one - nce pus ose cor - ect ion is ook at the big dog ere , ere ead we nd the ion ook at the gdo g the re .
ere are ven rds in the und ion , and six in the rue on; ree of ese rds tch .
we ort all res as ges , so p = 23% ( 123 / 123 ) , r = 23% ( 123 / 123 ) , and f = 23% .
rly , bp = 23% ( 123 / 123 ) , br = 23% ( 123 / 123 ) , bf = 23% , lp = 23% ( 123 / 123 ) , lr = 23% ( 123 / 123 ) , and lf = 23% .
ote hat if the ner tly ies all of the ies in the rue olu - ion , but lso ses tra ies ( nta - ion ) , hen ary all ill ach 23% , but ary ion and ary 123 ill be wer .
ely , if the ner ses no ect ies , but ils to ify all of the rue ies ( ion ) , hen ary ion ill be 23% , but ary all and 123 ill be wer .
in her ase , res for ord ens and cal ems ill be low 23% .
for son , we ort res as ell for nts bdp - 123 tem ( ent , 123 ) and ans n - ram ion ems ( man , 123 ) , ich we ill fer to as ngs - u and ngs - b ( for the ram and bi - ram els ) .
oth ent and man use ine rch res ( i . e . , eir ems ake a gle ass ugh the ata , ing ach nce in urn ) , so in eir ers hey ate ion and all epa - ely on ach 123 - nce ock of the pus and aph the lts to how how res nge as ore ata is pro - sed .
hey do not ort con all or ary pre - ion and all .
eir lts are her isy , but nce ems to ize dly , ter out 123 ces .
to ate son ith our own lts , we ted res for bdp - 123 and ngs ver the ole pus , ing ans ons of ese
nce our thm ces dom ons led rom the ior ion her han a sin - gle mal ion , ere are ral ble ays to ate its nce .
for ost of our ons , we ted a gle ple ken ter 123 , 123 ons .
we sed a hod own as ted ing ( rts & rst , 123 ) to eed nce of the ler , and in ome ses ( ted low ) to ain an ion of the map ion by ing les und the ode of the ior .
his wed us to ine ble ces een a dom ple of the ior and a ple ore ely ing the map nta - ion .
ils of the ing and map ion pro - res can be und in dix a .
123 the ons are ble at ttp : / / www . ech . sri . com /
( a ) ing p# ith
123 = 123
lue of p#
123 ith p# = . 123
123 for rds ( f ) and cal ems ( lf ) in the dp del ( a ) as a ion of p# , ith 123 123 and ( b ) as a ion of 123 , ith p# : 123
lts and ion
the dp del we ave bed has two ree ame - ers : p# ( the ior ity of a ord ary ) , and 123 ( ich cts the ber of ord pes sed ) . 123 fig .
123 ows the cts of ing of p# and 123
wer ues of p# ult in ore ong rds , ich nds to ove all ( and hus 123 ) in the con .
the ing ase in ken acy is due to an ing ncy for the mod - el to ate ort rds her , a non we uss her low .
her ues of 123 low ore vel rds , ich lso ves con all , but ins to de - ade ion ter a int .
due to the ive ion een ken acy and con acy , ere is no gle est lue for her p# or 123
in the der of his ion , we cus on the lts for p# : 23; 123 123 ( ugh ers are ely lar we uss ese iey
in ble 123 , we are the lts of our tem to ose of bdp - 123 and ngs - u .
ugh our tem has her con acy han the ers , its ken acy is uch rse .
nce oes not ary a eat eal be - een ent les , nce ing the ore for a gle ple ady ves ing ver any ran - dom ces the ces of her to ace a ary at ach ion or not .
ble 123 ows the ean and tan - ard ion in 123 res and ior ies ver les ken rom 123 ent uns of the thm ith ent dom ons .
the ame ics
123 the dp del lly ins a ird ree ter , q , sed as a ior ver the ity of an nce ary ( see dix a ) .
ven the rge ber of own nce ies , the lue of q uld ave tle ect on lts , so we ply xed q 123 for all ons .
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
ord ion acy of ram ems .
ote : p , r , and f are ion , all , and 123 for ord ns; bp , lp , etc .
are the ing res for ous ies and cal ems .
est res are own in old .
dp lts are ith p# : 123 and 123 123
lts of the dp del , ged ver ple les .
les ( 123 uns ) les ( 123 run )
ote : ken 123 ( f ) , con 123 ( lf ) , and ive log ior ity ere ged ver 123 les rom ent uns of our bbs ler , ver 123 les rom a gle run , and ver 123 les rom ent uns of our map ion ( see ext ) .
ard via - ons are own in ses .
are lso ded for ten les ned rom a gle run of the ler .
les rom a gle run are not nde - ent , so to uce the unt of ion een ese les hey ere ken at 123 - ion als ( at ons 123 , 123 , .
. , 123 ) .
ess , hey how ess ity han the uly ent les .
in oth ses , con acy is ore ble han ken acy , bly use ere are far wer cal ems to age ver hin a gle ple .
lly , ble 123 des lts for the ate map ion ure .
his ure is rly ect , nce if it ere ble to ify the rue map ion , ere uld be no nce in lts oss ple uns of the lgo - thm .
in act , red to the ard ing oce - ure , ere is nly tly ess ion in 123 res , and ter ion in ity . 123 ess , the map ion oes eed in ing ons ith nif - tly her ies .
ese ons lso ave her con acy , ugh ken acy ins low .
the son hat ken acy is so low ith the dp del is hat it ten mis - zes tly ing rds .
any ces of ese rds cur in mon ons uch as ats hat and do you , ich the sys - tem ets as a gle rds .
his ern of ors is ent in the ary res : ary ion is ery igh , ing hat hen the tem ses a ary , it is ost ays ect .
ary all is low , ing ion .
we zed the ior of the tem ore lly by ing the ted pus and con .
a ull 23% of the sed con and rly 23% of ens ist of
123 the rge ard ion in the ies of the ate map ons is due to a gle ier .
the ard ion ong the ing ine ons is 123 , ell low the ard ion in the ple ons , ere ere are no ers .
ion ( ion ) ors , ile nly 23% of pes and 23% of ens are her non - rds .
( ome ddi - nal ken ors , der 23% , are sed by ing a ect ord in an ect ion . ) out 23% of llo - ons ( oth pes and ens ) are sed of two rds , rly all the est are ree rds .
to ate the non , we ide the ems ion of the rst 123 ces in the pus in fig .
123 , and the 123 ost tly und cal ems in fig .
the 123 ost ent ons ied as gle rds by the tem are own in fig
it is ing to ine the ons ted in fig .
123 ith nce to the ing ure on ens rly ion of rds .
ers ( 123 ) , in lar , des a ber of les of ens seg - ion ors ( ing eir ons as nce ) .
ral of the ull ces and ial ons in fig .
123 ( e . g . , ank you , ats ght , bye bye , ook at his ) are ded ong her les .
in ion , ome of the her ion ors und by our ram tem tch the les of aic mes ven by ers : the erb cer can you and oun ers its a , his is , ose are , and see the .
cal ons in ult ech lso est hat a few of the ons und by the tem ( e . g . , did you , hat do you ) may ven be ted as gle its by lts in ome ces .
ver , the ent and ety of ons und by the tem is nly uch der han hat rch - ers ave so far und nce for in ung ren .
we ill fer for the ent any her ion of her ens rly ord ons are lar to ose und by our dp del ( we urn to his sue in the ral ion ) , and ead urn to the ion of why ese its are und .
the wer ems ear : ups of rds hat tly co - cur ate the uni - ram ion in the del , nce hey bit ong ord - to - ord ies .
the nly way the ner can ure ese ies is by ing hat ese ons are in act rds ves .
as an ple , der the ord hat .
in our pus , the cal oba - ity of the ord hat is 123 / 123 . 123
ver , the cal ity of hat ing the ord ats is far her : 123 / 123 . 123
nce the ong ion be - een ats and hat tes the nce ump - ion of the del , the ner des hat hat ust be a gle ord .
ote hat by ing the ues of the ers 123 and p# , it is ble to uce the vel of nta - ion , but nly tly , and at the ost of ing her
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
the rst 123 ces in the pus as ted by the dp del ( ted lly for ity ) , ing hat the del nts the pus .
the tic ure of the bbs ing ure is ent : ome ces , uch as tto and tit , ive two
ors .
for ple , ing the lue of p# to 123 gly ses the els nce for ort cal ems , but ons ill ake up 23% of oth pes and ens in his ase .
res of ken acy ase by a few nts , but are ill ell low ose of ous ems .
the ain ive nce een lts ith p# : 123 and p# : 123 is hat ith the her lue , fre - ent rds are ore ely to be ted nto ery ort one - or two - eme nks ( ted in a rop in con acy ) .
ver , ent rds ill end to be ted as ore .
it is lso rth ing hat , ugh the ion of ons in the ons und by bdp - 123 and ngs - u is ble to the ion und by our own del ( 23% ) , nly 23% of ens und by ese ems are llo - ion ors .
his act ems to ict our sis of the res of our own ram del , and ses a num - ber of ons .
why ont ese her ram els bit the ame ems as our own ? is ere ome her ess in our del hat ght be ing or com - ing the ems ith ion ? is it pos - ble to ign a ful ram del for ord ion ? we ess ese ons in the low -
her ram els
bdp - 123 and rch
in the ous ion , we wed hat the mal ion der our ram del is one hat nti - es mon ons as ual rds .
our ier
ion of ans ( 123 ) ngs els mon - ted hat the mal ion der ose els is a ely ted pus .
hat out ent ( 123 ) bdp - 123 del ? ile the ion of his uni - ram del kes it ult to ine hat the pti - mal ion is , our ain ern was her it its the ame ems ith ion as our own ram del .
the lts ted by ent do not ndi - ate ion , but it rns out hat ese lts , ike ans , are ced by the ate rch ure sed .
we ned his by ing the ity of ous ons of the pus un - der ach del , as own in ble 123
the lts ate hat the bdp - 123 del gns her ity to the ion und by our bbs ler han to the ion und by nts own tal rch thm .
in her rds , the del ing bdp - 123 oes vor the wer - acy ion ion , but nts ate rch thm nds a ent ion hat has her acy but wer ity der the
we med two ons ing hat our own nce ure oes not fer rom lar ems .
rst , we zed the bbs ler in ree ent ays : ith no nce - nal ies , ith a ary ter ery ter , and ith dom und - ies .
the lts ere lly the ame ess of ini - ion ( see dix a for ils ) .
ond , we ted an ial pus by mly ing all the rds in the rue pus and ing hem nto ces ith the ame ber of rds as in the rue pus .
his ion tes a pus ere the ram ump -
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
ble for the oor ion nce on the ral age pus .
in lar , the ram ion of the del ems to be at ult .
in the fol - ing ion we ent ome nal ons de - ned to her est his sis .
in ese ons , we nge the del of cal ems sed in tep 23a of the del , ich has so far med hat cal ems are cre - ted by ing mes tly at dom .
if the nal oor cal del is ble for the dp els ion of the pus , hen ing the cal del uld ove nce .
ver , if the lem is hat the ram ion ils to ac - unt for ial ies in the pus , hen a ter cal del ill not ake uch nce .
the act of the cal del on ord ion
one ble ent to the cal del is to re - ace the ion of a orm ion ver pho - mes ith the ore tic ion hat mes ave ent ies of nce .
his ion is ore in ine ith the bdp - 123 and ngs els .
in ngs , eme ies are ted ine ing to eir cal ion in the pus .
in bdp - 123 , pho - eme ies are lso ted ine , but ing to eir cal ion in the ent con .
for els ike bdp - 123 and the dp del , ere the pho - eme ion is sed to ate con ems her han ord ens , the ter ach kes ore nse .
it is ely ard to end the dp del to in - fer the eme ion in the con sly ith ing the con elf .
ore ing his ion , ver , we ied ply ing the eme ion to the cal ion in the rue exi - con .
his ure ves an per und on the for - nce hat uld be ted if the ion ere ned .
we und hat his nge ved con 123 hat ( to 123 , ith 123 123 and p# : 123 ) , but ade al - ost no nce on ken 123 ( 123 ) .
nce of the pho - eme ion was ore not ted .
the 123 ost ent ems in the con und by the dp del ( eft ) and in the ect con ( ght ) .
ept for the mes z and s , cal ems are ted lly for ity .
ent ble ngs of a gle mic orm are ted by hes .
the ncy of ach cal tem is own to its eft .
ems in the ted con are ted as ect ( + ) or ect ( ) .
ies of ect ems in the ted con are wer han in the rue con use any ces of ese ems are ted for by ons .
ion is ect .
if our nce ure rks rly , the ram tem uld be ble to tly ify the rds in the ted pus .
his is tly hat we und , as own in ble 123
the nce of the dp del mps lly , and ost ors cur on ent rds ( as ced by the act hat ken acy is uch her han con acy ) .
in con - ast , bdp - 123 and ngs - u ive a uch ler net rom the ted pus , ain ing the nce
ese lts ply hat the dp del elf , her han the bbs ing ure we sed for nce , is
her ges uld be ade to the cal del in or - der to ate a ter del of ord pes .
for ple , ing a ram or ram eme del uld low the ner to ire ome ion of ics .
ing the del on les her han mes uld cor - ate nts on the nce of els or ble ght .
her han ing all ese ent ies , we ned a ion to ine an ate per und on nce in the ram dp del .
in his ion , we ded the del ith rma - ion hat no ant uld lly ave ess to : the set of ord pes hat cur in the tly ted cor - pus .
the cal del is ned as ows :
ewi 123 123
ere l is the rue set of cal ems in the ata , and is ome all ing ant .
in her rds , his del is a ure een a orm ion ver the rue lex - cal ems and the sic del 123
if 123 , the del is
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
the 123 ost tly ing ems in the ted con hat ist of ple rds rom the rue con .
ese ems are all ied as gle ds; the rue ord ies ave een ted for ity .
the ncy of ach tem is own to its eft .
ive log ies of ous ons der ach ram
acy of the ous ems on the ted pus .
ote : row ngs ify the els sed to ate ach men - ion .
umn ngs ify the ent ons : the rue ion , the ion ith no nce - nal ies , and the ion und by ach tem .
ual log ies are 123 ose own .
ned so hat ons may nly ain rds rom the rue con .
if > 123 , a all unt of ise is ced so hat new cal ems are ble , but ave uch wer ity han the rue cal ems .
if the del ill tes ons hen is ery all , we ave nce hat the ram ion , her
ote : p , r , and f are ion , all , and 123 for ord ns; bp , lp , etc .
are the ing res for ous ies and cal ems .
est res are own in old .
dp lts are ith p# : 123 and 123 123
han any ure in the con del , is ble for
the lts rom his del are own in ble 123
not gly , the con 123 res in his del are ery igh , and ere is a rge ent in ken 123 res nst ous els .
ver , unt of ion ded to the del , its res are ill gly low , and ons ain a rob - lem , lly for ent ems .
ter et al .
/ ion 123 ( 123 ) 123
lts of the dp del ing rue .
ote : own , for ach lue of , is ken 123 ( f ) , con 123 ( lf ) , and the age of ens and cal ems hat are lti - ord ons .
ing the ase ere 123 lds ome in - ght nto the nce of ese els ith ved cal els .
the ion und , ith a con ist - ing of 23% ons , has her ity han the rue ion .
his is ite the act hat the ost oba - ble ect cal ems are out ve ers of gni - ude ess ble han the rue cal ect cal ems are sed ite eir ely low ity use nly the rst nce of ach ord is ted for by the cal del .
ent ces are ted for by the art of the del hat tes ted rds , ere ies are por - nal to the ber of ous ces .
ore , low - ity cal ems cur no lty ( ond hat of any her ord ) ter the rst nce .
his is why the ons ing in the dp del ing rue are the est - ncy ons : ver any ces , the ity ass ned by ing ese ons as gle rds ghs the ass ost in ing the
the lts of his ion est hat the any of ons und by the ram dp del are not due to the ess of the cal del .
ess of how ood the cal del is , it ill not be ble to ely ome the nce of the ram ion gov - ing ord ens hen ing the ull pus .
in or - der to uce the ber of ons , it is ary to unt for ial ies een rds .
ore ing how to do so , ver , we rst ent cal lts ing the ity of our clu - ons out ram els .
bdp - 123 , the dp del , and her ram els
the tic els sed in bdp - 123 and our let ess del eal to ite ent era - ive ses .
to ate a pus ing bdp , the num - ber of ord pes is led , hen the ken ies , hen the rms of the rds in the con , and lly an ing for the set of ens .
ing the dp del , the gth of the pus ( ber of ord ens ) ust be cho -
123 ere are 123 cal ems in the pus , so der the cal del , the ity of ach of ese is ely 123
ere are 123 mes and p# : 123 , so a gle - ter ord has ity . 123 der 123
ing by the unt tor 123 lds rue 123 for one - ter rds not in the rue con .
ger ect rds ill ave uch wer ity .
sen , and hen the nce of rds is ted , lic - tly ing the ber of ord pes and the con .
ugh ese two hes to ing a pus are ery ent , it is ble to how hat , by ing the cic ons med at ach tep of the bdp - 123 ive ess , the two hes can ult in tly the ame ion ver ord se - ces .
in dix b we how hat by ing how the ize of the con and the ken ies are cho - sen in eps 123 and 123 of the bdp del , we can uce ons ver rds hat are ent to the tri - ion ven by the dp del hen ned on the to - tal ber of rds .
