a ial ion to ian els of
ool of ogy , ity of ide
hua b .
aum
ain and ive ces , tts ute of ogy
mas l .
ths
ent of ogy , ity of nia , ley
ort ion age
omb no .
123 - 123
lic ing den for the ion of ion is ted to age 123 our per nse , ing the ime for ing ons , ing ing ata ces , ing and ing the ata ded , and ing and ing the ion of ion .
end nts ing his den ate or any her ect of his ion of ion , ing ons for ing his den , to ton ers ces , ate for ion ons and rts , 123 son vis way , ite 123 , ton va 123 - 123
nts uld be are hat ing any her ion of law , no son all be ect to a lty for ing to ply ith a ion of ion if it oes not lay a tly lid omb rol ber .
ort ate
ort ype
tle and tle a ial ion to ian els of ive ent
ing ion ame ( s ) and ess ( es ) tts ute of ogy , ain and ive
tes red 123 - 123 - 123 to 123 - 123 - 123
act ber 23b .
ant ber 23c .
ram ent ber 23d .
ect ber 23e .
ask ber 23f .
ork nit ber
ing ion
ing / ing ncy ame ( s ) and ess ( es )
sor / ors nym ( s )
sor / ors ort
ion / ity ent ved for lic se; ion ted
ary tes
we ent an ion to ian nce as it is sed in tic els of ive ent .
our oal is to ide an ive and ble ide to the hat , the how , and the why of the ian ach : hat rts of ems and ata the ork is ost ant for , and how and why it may be ful for sts .
we ize a ive ing of ian nce , but lso ude ion out nal ces for ose ted in the ive nce ons , cal ons or ine ing ils in ore pth .
in ion , we uss ome ant ion ues hat ten ise hen ing ian els in ive
ect rms 123
ity ion of :
his age
ion of
ame of
ard orm 123 ( rev .
123 - 123 ) bed by nsi std 123 - 123
we ent an ion to ian nce as it is sed in tic
els of ive ent .
our oal is to ide an ive and ble
ide to the hat , the how , and the why of the ian ach : hat rts
of ems and ata the ork is ost ant for , and how and why it
may be ful for sts .
we ize a ive ing
of ian nce , but lso ude ion out nal ces for
ose ted in the ive nce ons , cal ons ,
or ine ing ils in ore pth .
in ion , we uss ome ant
ion ues hat ten ise hen ing ian els in ive
rds : ian ls; ive ent
one of the ral ons of ive ent is how we arn so uch rom uch
tly ted nce .
in ing out sal ons , ing out ect
ies or eir ies , ing age , or ing ive ies ,
ren ely raw ces hat go ond the ata hey rve .
tic
els ide a ral - ose nal ork for ing how a ner
ght ake ese ive aps , ing hem as rms of ian nce .
his per nts a ial iew of the ian ork for ing
ive ent .
our oal is to ide an ive and ble ide to
the hat , the how , and the why of the ian ach : hat rts of ems
and ata the ork is ost ant for , and how and why it may be ful for
sts .
we der ree ral ive ems hat ers ace ,
ach ded in cic tal ges :
ive ion rom les , ith a cus on ing the nts of
rds for ect ies .
ing ive nts , ing and ing ior dge rom xpe -
nce , ith a cus on ing to arn ies .
ing ive rks , ing or ing ate sis
ces for ive ion , ith ons to ing ive heo -
ies of ind and ing cal ase ure in age .
we lso uss ral ral ues as hey ear on the use of ian els :
ons out ity , cal ity , and hat zed els can ell
us out ual man nds .
the per nds ith an dix ing a ary
and a ion of ful ces for ose ted in ing ore .
123 ian ics :
ive ion rom
the ost sic ion the ian ork ses is how to ate efs and
ake ces in ght of ved ata .
in the rit of rrs ( 123 ) nal -
vel of sis , it ins ith ing the gic of the nce ade hen
ing rom les , her han the mic eps or cic ive pro -
ses ved .
a ral ion is hat ees of ief can be ted as
ies : hat our ion in ome sis h can be sed as a eal num -
ber ing rom 123 to 123 , ere 123 ans ing ike h is ely lse and 123
hat h is ely rue .
the ork lso mes hat ers ent rob -
ity ons and hat hey use ese ies to ent nty in
nce .
ese ons urn the ics of ity ory nto an ine
of nce , a ans of ing ach of a set of lly ive and ive ses h to ine ich est ain the ved ata .
ity ory
lls us how to ute the ree of ief in ome sis hi , ven ome ata d .
ing ees of ief as ies nds on two nts
led the ior ity and ted p ( hi ) , res how uch we eve in hi ior to ing the ata d .
the her , led the ood and ted p ( |hi ) ,
res the ity ith ich we uld ect to rve the ata d if hi ere
ese ine to eld the ior ity of hi , ven via yes ule :
p ( i|d ) =
p ( |hi ) p ( hi ) hjh p ( |hj ) p ( hj )
as we ill see , the uct of ors and ods ten has an ive ion .
it ces een a nse of ity sed on und dge on one and
and the ata - ven nse of a ous nce on the her .
in the rit
of ams zor , it ses the deo een the sic ity of an
ion and how ell it ts the ved ata .
the tor in ion 123 des a ing erm ich is the sum of
the ity of ach of the ble ses der on; his res hat
yes ule ill ect the ion of all of the ity hat is ned to any
gle sis hi , and ( dly ) hat the ior ies of all ses
sum to one .
his res hat we ght all the law of ion of ief : a
nal ner has a xed ass of ief to ate ver ent ses , and the
act of ing ata ust hes his ass und to ent ons of the sis
if the ata ead us to gly eve one sis , we ust ase our
ree of ief in all her ses .
by ast , if the ata gly vor all
but one sis , hen ( to ase ock mes ) ver ins , ver
ble a ori , is ery ely to be the uth .
to ate how yes ule rks in ice , let us der a ple ion
ith ree ses .
ine you see our end lly ing .
hat uld ain
his ? one ity ( all it old ) is hat lly has a ld; her ( all it cer is
hat she has ung er; and yet her ( all it urn ) is hat she has urn .
ely , in ost xts , old ems by far the ost ble , and may ven be the
nly one hat mes to ind sly .
why ? the ood ors old and cer
ver urn , nce lds and ung cer use ing , ile urn oes not .
the ior , ver , ors old and urn ver cer : ung cer is lly are ,
ile lds and urn are mon .
hus the ior ity the uct
of ese two rms is igh nly for old .
the ons ere uld be rly ear , but to ate ely how yes
ule can be sed to ack hem up , it can be ful to ign ers . 123 let us set
the ors as ows : p ( old ) = 123 , p ( urn ) = 123 , and p ( cer ) = 123
res the ion hat lds are tly ore mon han urn , but oth are
ote hat we ave med hat ese are the nly ble ses , and hat tly one ies .
hat is why the ors are uch her han the ase tes of ese ses .
in a eal ing , ere uld be any ore ses der ion , and ach uld ave uch wer ior ity .
hey uld lso not be lly ive .
ing uch ils uld ake the ath ore lex but not nge ing lse , so for ity of ion we der nly the
tly ore mon han cer .
we can set our ods to be the ing : p ( old ) = 123 , p ( cer ) = 123 , and p ( urn ) = 123 .
his res the
ion hat oth lds and cer end to ead to ing , and urn lly
oes not .
ing his nto yes ule ves :
p ( d|d ) =
p ( old ) p ( old ) + p ( cer ) p ( cer ) + p ( urn ) p ( urn )
p ( old ) p ( old )
( 123 ) ( 123 ) + ( 123 ) ( 123 ) + ( 123 ) ( 123 )
123 + 123 + 123
hus , the ity hat lly is ing use she has a old is uch her han
the ity of her of the her two ses we red .
of rse , ese
ces uld nge ith ent ata or in a ent ext .
for nce , if the
ata lso ded ing up ood , est ain , and ess of ath , you ght
art to der ung cer as a eal ity : the ood now ins hat ata
ter han a old uld , ich ins to nce the low ior ity of cer
in the rst ace .
on the her and , if you had her ion out lly e . g . ,
hat she had een ing two cks of tes per day for 123 ars hen it ght
ise the ior ity of ung cer in her ase .
yes ule ill ond to ese
ges in the ood or the ior in a way hat rds ith our ive ing .
the ian ork is ive , ing hat ved ata are med
to be ted by ome ing ess or ism ble for ing the
in the ple ove , ata ( oms ) are ted by an ing ess .
ore ely , rds in a age may be ted by a mar of ome ort , in
ion ith ial and tic ors .
in a cal tem , ved nts
may be ted by ome ing ork of sal ons .
the job of the ner
is to ate ent ses out the ing ure of the ive ess ,
and to ake ons sed on the ost ely nes .
a tic del is ply
a ion of the ive ses at ork , ing the eps ( and ted
ies ) ved in ing ata .
oth ors and ods are lly
ble in ive rms .
to ate how the ure of the ive ess can ect a ers nce ,
der her ple , lso ing ess .
ose you rve hat 23% of the
ple und you are ing .
is his a ign hat a new rus is ing und ? our
nce ill end on how ose ata ere ted in his ase , her it is a
dom ple ( sed , say , of ple hat you saw on lic ort ) or a non -
dom one ( sed of ple you see ing in the ing oom at the ors
the ata are the ame 23% of ple are ing ess of how it was
ted , but the ces are ery ent : you are ore ely to ude hat
a new rus is ing und if you see 23% of ple on the bus ing .
a ors
oce ull of ing ple ans tle out her a new rus is ing und ,
nce ors ces are ver ull of thy ple .
how can the gic of ian nce , ted ere ith ese cal xam -
les , ply to ems ike ord and ept ing , the ion of age ,
or ing out ity or ive ies ? in ese ses , ere is ten a uge
ace of ses ( bly an ite one ) .
it may not be ear how the els in
ion uld be ted ely , nce hey eem to ate ets ( e . g . , the
set of ces in a ept , the set of cal ces , or the set of ena
ned by a ory ) .
ere we ate how ian nce rks ore lly
in the ext of a ple tic ple .
we ill ild on his ple out
the per , and see how it ies and cts ems of ive est .
our ple ple , own lly in ure 123 , ses ots to ent ual
ata nts ( e . g . , rds or nts ) ted tly rom ome own ess
( e . g . , a age or a sal ork ) hat we ict in rms of a ion or set of
ace : the ess tes ata nts mly hin its ion , ver ide .
ust as ach of the ses in the cal ple ove ( i . e . , old , urn ,
or cer ) are ted ith ent ata ( i . e . , oms ) , ach sis ere
ure 123 : ( i ) ple ata and sis .
cal ion of ata and one ble sis out how ose ata ere ted .
ere are ree ses ere , ach ing to a gle gle .
the ack ata nts can nly be ted by the lid or the hed gle .
a new ata int in ion a ght be ted if the hed gle is ect , but not the lid or ted one .
( ii ) ome ses in the sis ace for his ple .
ses ist of es; ome are ell - ted by the ata and ome are not .
des a ent dea out ich set of ace the ata are awn rom .
ure
123 ( i ) cts ree ble ses , ach ing of a gle gle in the ace :
lid nds to the lid ine , hed to the hed ine , and ted to the ted
ore ing ata , a ner ght ave ain efs out ich sis is
ost ly; aps hey eve hat all are lly ely , or hey ave a ias to fer
ler or ger les .
ese ior efs , ver hey are , uld be red
in the ior ity of ach sis : p ( lid ) , p ( hed ) , and p ( ted )
ent ses lso eld ent ons out hat ata one uld ect
to ee; in ure 123 ( i ) , the ata are ent ith lid and hed , but not ted ,
nce ome of the nts are not hin the ted gle .
his uld be ted in eir ds; p ( lid ) and p ( hed ) uld oth be non - ero , but p ( ted )
uld be ero .
ian nce can lso eld ons out out ved
for nce , one uld nly rve new ata at ion a if hed is ect , nce p ( lid ) = 123 , but p ( hed ) > 123
in his nse , ing the ses ost
ely to ave ted the ved ata des the ner in ing ond
the ata to new ons .
the sis ace h can be ght of as the set of all ble ses ,
ned by the ure of the lem hat the ner can ain .
ure 123 ( ii )
ows a ble sis ace for our ple , ing of all ble les
in his ace .
ote hat his sis ace is ite in ize , ugh ust a few
ive ses are own .
the sis ace is ned by the ure of the ing lem , and hus
ded to the ner a ori .
for nce , in our ple , the sis ace
uld be ned by the nge of ble ues for the wer ner ( x and y ) ,
gth ( l ) , and dth ( w ) of lar ons .
uch nts eed not be ery
ong or ery ing : for nce , one ght ply ify hat the nge of ble
ues for x , y , l , and w ies een 123 and ome ely rge ber ike 123 , or
be awn rom a ity ion ith a ery ong ail .
in his nse , the ior
ity of a sis p ( hi ) is lso ven by a tic ive ess
a ess ing one vel up rom the ess xed by ach sis hat
tes the ved ata nts .
we ill see low how ese sis ces and
ors eed not be ilt in , but can be ted or ied rom nce .
in our ple the sis ace has a ery ple ure , but use a
ian del can be ned for any ell - ied ive ork , nce
can ate ver any ion hat can be ied by a ive ess
des , ong her ies , ity ons in a ace ( ate
for mes as ers in tic ace ) ; ted cal els ( ate
for sal ing ) ; act res ing ies ( ate for ome
cts of ual ure ) ; cts as ets of res ( ate for ego -
ion and ect ing ) ; ord ncy nts ( ent for ome pes
of tic ion ) ; ars ( ate for tax ) ; ent ure
mes ( ate for erb dge ) ; kov els ( ate for ion lan -
ing or art - of - ech ing ) ; and ven cal les ( ate for ome cts of
ual dge ) .
the dix ins a led ist of ers hat use ese
and her ons .
the nal ity of ian els ows us to ove ond ome
of the nal ies hat ave ped des of rch in ive de -
ent : red dge vs .
tic ing ( but not oth ) , or ate
red dge vs .
ned red dge ( but not the ity of
dge hat is oth ned and red ) .
as a ult of his ity , adi -
nal ues of ism hat cus on eir ity to ely ure
ity and ity ( e . g . , dor & hyn , 123 ) do not ply to
ian els .
in act , ere are ral ent les of ian els hat
ace age - ike or nal ons in ins ing rom sal
ion ( ths & aum , 123 ) to mar ing ( ors , aum ,
& ier , ted ) to ory ion ( emp , aum , ogi , & ths ,
123 a ase udy : ing mes for ect ies
to ate ore ely how his sic ian sis of ive ion
ies in ive ent , der the ask a ild ces in ing mes for
ect ies .
his is a sic nce of the lem of ion in ive
ent , as any ors ave ved .
ven an tly ple ord ike
dog can fer to a lly ite ber of ses , ing all ogs , all
ors , all als , all als , all ets , all our - ged res , all ogs ept
uas , all ngs ith fur , all ing ngs , etc .
ite the eer ber of
ble ons of the ord , ung ren are gly ept at ing the
ngs of rds ven hen ere are nly a few les , and ven hen ere is
no tic ive nce ( man , 23; oom , 123 ) .
how do ren arn ord ngs so ell , so kly ? one ion is hat in -
nts are orn ped ith ong ior dge out hat ort of ord ngs
are ral ( rey , 23; man , 123 ) , ich ins the ble ses
red .
for nce , ven if a ild is ble to ule out art - cts as ble
ure 123 : tic iew of ses out ble ons red by the ner in xu & aum ( 123 ) ; use the omy is cal , the the - ses are ted hin ach her .
ure ced rom xu & aum ( 123 ) .
ons , she not now hat vel of a omy the ord ies : her dog
lly ers to ogs , als , ors , nes , or ing ngs .
one ion
uld be to add her int the ion hat unt uns map ren -
lly to the sic vel in a omy ( sch , vis , ray , son , & yes - aem ,
his nce uld low ren to arn mes for sic - vel ies ,
but uld be ive for ery her ind of ord .
xu and aum ( 23b ) ent a ian del of ord ing hat ers
a ise unt of how ers uld ake ful ons rom one or a
few les of a vel ord .
his lem can be lly ted as in ure
123 : for pts hat are zed in a cal omy , led les are
ent ith ple ent ons .
for nce , a gle bel dor
uld ick out nly ors , but it uld lso ick out ogs , als , or ing ngs .
his lem is ced by a ild who , own one or any cts ith a ven bel ,
ust ide ich sis out ble ons of the bel is est .
ely ,
ure 123 : ing ect rds .
( i ) sis ace hat is lly lar to hat in ure 123 , now ted as a two - nal dot am; ses ith her ity are ker les .
ith one ata int , any ses ave ome ort .
( ii ) ith ree les , the ost ive sis is uch ore
we uld ect hat hen ven one ect , a ble ner uld not gly
fer any of the ses hat ude it , ugh the ore ted nes ght be
tly red .
if the ner ere own ree les , we uld ect the ost
ely - ing sis to be uch ore gly red .
for nce , ven one
dor as an ple of a fep , it is ear her fep ers to ors ,
ogs , als , or als .
but if ven ree ors as the rst ree les of
fep , it uld be ite ing a hly ous nce if fep in act
red to a uch ore ral ass uch as all ogs .
the ame lem is ted ore tly in the dot ram in ure 123
ate ses ( e . g . , mal ) are ted as ger les .
mes
hey lly ose ler les ( ing to ore ate ses ) ,
ust as the ion of als des all ors .
mes hey can lso oss -
cut ach her , ust as the ion of ets des any ( but not all ) ors .
the ler les ent ses ith ler ons , and we can use
his to and how ian ing res the ion of a ous oin -
nce , ing the ncy to gly vor the est sis hat is
ent ith the ata as the ber of ata nts ses .
his ity ges due to the ood p ( d|h ) , the ity of ing the
ata d ing sis h is rue .
in ral , ore ive ses , rre -
ing to ler ons in the ata ace , ive ore ood for a ven ece
if a all sis is the ect ion of a ord , hen it is not too
ing hat the les cur ere hey do; a ger sis uld be sis -
ent ith the ame ata nts , but ins ess ell tly why the ata all ere
hey do .
the ore ata nts we rve ing in the ame all ion , the ore
of a ous nce it uld be if in act the rds ion ded to
a uch ger ion .
ore lly , if we ume hat ata are led mly at dom rom all
ses ent ith the ept , hen the ity of any gle ata int d con -
ent ith h is ely nal to the ize of the ion h cks out all his
the ize of h .
his is why hen ere is one ata int , as in ure 123 ( i ) , ere is a
ght nce for the ost ive ( est ) is; ver , the nce
is nly ght , use it uld ill ily ave een ted by any of the the -
ses hat ude it .
but if ple ata nts are ted tly rom the
ept , as in ure 123 ( ii ) , the ood of h ith n ent les is ely
nal to the ize of h , sed to the nth wer .
hus the nce for ler
ent ses ver ger ses ses lly ith the ber
of les , and the ost ive ent sis is gly red
ion is ten red to as the ize ple ( aum & ths , 123 ) .
the ath ind the ize ple is est ood ely if we ink out
the ses as ete ets of ble cts we ght rve , uch as ags
of red les , her han as ous ons uch as lar ons in a
two - nal ace .
ose bag a ins two les ( a red and a een ) and
bag b ins ree ( a red , a een , and a low ) .
the ity of ing the red
ble out of bag a is 123
123 = 123 , nce ere are two ble les to ose rom .
the ity of ing the red ble out of bag b is 123
123 = 123 for lar ons .
hus , if you now nly hat a red ble has een led out of a bag ( but not ich
bag it is ) , you ght ave a eak ias to ink hat it was led out of bag a , ich
123 = 123 mes as ely as bag b .
now ose hat one aws out the ing ies of les , ing the
bag lly een ach raw : red , een , red , een .
at his int ost ple uld
be ore ain hat the bag is a .
the ize ple ins why .
if the ity
of ing one red ( or een ) ble rom bag a is 123
123 , the ity of ing hat
cic ies of les is 123
123 = 123
123 = 123 , nce ach raw is
ent .
by ast , the ity of ing ose les rom bag b is
123 = 123
123 = 123 .
his ans hat bag a is now 123
123 = 123 mes
as ely as b .
in nce , the ght nce for the ler bag is ied ver
any aws , nce it mes an gly ely nce for nly red or een
les to be awn if ere is lso a low one in ere .
his can be ied if
the ber of ons ses ill her ( e . g . , der ing a nce
of red , een , red , een , een , een , red , een , red , red , een ) or the ive ize
of the ags ges ( e . g . , ose the ons are ill red , een , red , een , but
hat the ger bag ins six les , ach of a ent lor , her han ree ) .
in her ase bag a is now red to bag b by ver a tor of 123 , and ere is tle
ubt hat the les ere awn rom bag a .
in a lar way , a all sis
kes ore ise ns; hus , if the ata are ent ith ose ons ,
hen the ler sis is red .
the ize ple ins how it is ble to ake ong ces sed on ery
few les .
it lso res the ion of a ous nce : as the ber
of les ses , ses hat ake cic ons ose ith ore
ory wer end to be red ver ose hat are ore gue .
his des
a ral ion to the no ive nce lem : ing ong ses
ven ive - nly les .
as the ize of the ata set hes ity , a ian
ner cts ger or ore ral ses in vor of ore ise nes
ted nts of ata , the ian ach can ake ore tle ons , as
the ded ize - sed ood des o nst the nce for ity in the
the ood in ian ing can hus be een as a led ive
ure of the ght of cit ive nce one hat ins oth how and
hen ion uld cur .
the lts of xu and aum ( 23b ) ect his dea .
lts and 123 - and
123 - ear - old ren ere ted ith 123 cts ted oss ree ent
ate ies ( als , les , and les ) , ing any sic - vel
and ate - vel ies hin ose .
cts ere hen own her one or
ree led les of a vel ord uch as fep , and ere ked to ick out the
her eps rom the set of cts .
oth ren and lts ded tly
ing on how any les hey ere ven .
ust as in ure 123 , ith one
ple , ple and the del oth wed ded ion rom ate
to ate hes .
by ast , hen ven ree les , ons
ame uch per and ere lly ted to the ost ive vel .
his lso tes how ons out the ure of the ive ess
ect the pes of ces hat can be ade .
we ave een hat ple end how
ted ons on the sis of ree es; ver , his nly if hey
ink the ter was ing ose les bly ( i . e . , as les of the
ept ) .
if ple ink the ata ere ted in ome her way for nce , an -
her ner was ing out ose lar res hen eir ces nge
( xu & aum , 23a ) .
in his ase , the ack of non - ors no ger cts
ing the ter can ol; ugh it is a nce , it is not a spi -
ous one .
the ata are the ame , but the nce ges as the ive ess
ing the ata ges .
in her rds , the ize ple ies in ust ose
ses ere the ive ess is uch hat ata are ted rom the ept
( or , ore lly , sis ) elf .
so far we ave ted how ian nce can ure ion rom
ust a few les , the ous ing of ing ons , and the use
of cit ive nce .
all of ese are ant , but it is lso rue hat we
ave ilt in a eat eal , ing a ted and ell - ied sis ace .
ery ten , man ers ust not ake ble cic ons hin a
set sis ace , hey lso uch be ble to ake ons out hat ort
of ons are ble .
we see an ple of his in the ext ion .
123 ing ive nts
one of the ons of sic ems of ion is the eed for ons
out ons , or ive nts , of ome ort .
the ore lem is how
ion is ied sed on a ite ple of any ind of ata , and the ble
ion is hat ere ust be ome ind of int hat les ing to cur .
rly ery ain ied by ive nce lds nce hat ren ely
on her - vel ive nts .
ren ing rds fer to ply hem
to ole cts her han rts ( man , 123 ) .
ies eve hat nts are
nct rom cts in hat hey can ove out act ( lke , ips , & ood -
ard , 123 ) and act in ain ays in nse to als ( ard , 23; ely &
bra , 123 ) .
ted ith nce hat ens ior is ted in pre -
ble ays , the ral nse is to ize the nce of ate nts ,
ing the ole ect int ( man , 123 ) ore ems of ect pre -
ion , ogy , ics , and ogy ( rey & lke , 23; lke & ler ,
23; rey , 123 ) , and so on .
ven hat hey ear so rly in ent , it
ems ble to ate hat ese nts are ate her han ned .
ver , it may be ble for ive nts to be ned , at ast in ome
for nce , der the lem of ing hat ome res ter for
ing new cts ile ers uld be red ( e . g . , sky , 123 ) .
uir -
ing her - vel act dge uld ble one to ake ect ons
out an ect rom a ely vel ory , ven ter ing nly one ple .
a lth of rch tes hat ple are ble of ing his ort of owl -
dge , oth dly in the lab ( sky , 23; ors & aum , 123 ) and ver
the rse of ent ( dau , ith , & nes , 23; l .
ith , nes , dau ,
hko - owe , & son , 123 ) .
ren lso ire her rts of ive
nts ver the rse of ent , ing the ion hat ies
may be zed lly ( sch , 123 ) , hat ome rbs cur in ing
rns and ers ont ( e . g . , ker , 123 ) or hat ive ngs uld be
ive ( ltz & gel , 123 ) .
how can an ive int be ned , and how ght a ian ork
ain his ? is it ble to ire an ive int ter han the cic
ses it is ant to ain ? if not , how can we ain les ing in
ome ons ? if so , hat les ain his ion ?
a iar ple of the ing of ive nts was ded by man
( 123 ) .
ose we ave any ags of red les and ver by ing les
hat ome ags eem to ave ack les , ers ave ite les , and ill ers
ave red or een les .
ery bag is orm in or; no bag ins les of
ore han one lor .
if we raw a gle ble rom a new bag in his ion
and rve a lor ver een ore say , ple it ems ble to ect hat
her aws rom his ame bag ill lso be ple .
ore we ted ing rom
any of ese ags , we had uch ess son to ect hat uch a ion uld
the ion hat lor is orm hin ags is a ned sis ,
an red ive int .
the ity to fer uch a int is not in elf
a ion to the ate ges of on; it sts on her , bly per
ons hat the new bag is ike the ous ags we ave een in ant
yet it is ill a ery ful ece of act dge hat des ent
ons and can elf be ced rom nce .
we can ate a lar dea in the gle rld by ing a ner who
is own the tic ata in ure 123 ( i ) .
ing een int a nly , the ner has
no way to ide her b or c is ore ely to be in the ame ory or ion as
ure 123 : ing her - der ion .
( i ) ven int a , one not ify her b or c is ore ely .
( ii ) ven nal ata , a del hat uld arn her - der ion out ses ght vor ons hat end to be ong , hin les ted ong the y xis ( i . e . , ons for ich the gth l nds to be ort , the dth w nds to be ong , and the ion ( x and y tes ) can be rly ere ) .
if his is the ase , nts a and b are bly hin the ame ion , but a and c are not .
ver , if the ner has lso een the ata in ure 123 ( ii ) , hey ght fer oth
rst - der and ond - der dge out the ata set .
rst - der ing ers
to the ion hat the cic lar ons ute the est ion
for the ata nts een so ar; ond - der ( sis ) ing uld lve
ing hat the ons end to be ong , hin , and ted ong the y - xis
as ing the how ies are zed lps ren ize rom new ems ,
his ype of her - der nce lps ith the ion of vel ata , ing
to the ion hat int b is bly in the ame ion as a but int c is not ,
ven ugh b and c are ant rom a .
a ain ind of ian del , own as a cal ian del ( hbm ) ,
can arn ses by not nly ing ong cic ses , but by lso
ing her - der ons out ose ses .
as eve ady een , in
a non - cal del , the ler ets the nge of the ers hat ene the
ses .
in a cal del , the ler ead ies ers
ers ing the ers and the del rns the nge of the ers
ves .
so her han ing ven hat the nge of ach of the the wer ner
( x , y ) , gth l , and dth w ues ies een 123 and 123 , a cal del ght
ead arn the cal nge of ach ( e . g . , hat l nds to be ort ile w nds to
be ong , as ted in ure 123 ( ii ) ) ile the ler ies the nge of the ges .
the dea of ing in act dge at her els of cal ian
els may eem ent of ist hes , but ral key res t ell
ith ist ons out ing .
the top vel of dge in an hbm is
ied , but ery vel ath hat can be ned .
as one ves up the chy ,
dge mes gly act and ses gly eak nts on
the ers cic efs at the wer els .
hus , a ion of the del hat
rns at her els lds in ker nts han a ion hat rns nly at
wer els .
by ing her els of ion to an hbm ile ing pre -
ied ers to a mum , at the est els of the del , we can ome
gly ose to the cal ist sal for the tom - up , ata - ven
ins of act dge .
ugh the ise cal ils of any hbm are too lex to go nto
ail ere , we can ive a ied ple ned to ate how it ght be
ble to arn on ple els sly .
ine you are ced ith the
ble ple bed ier .
we can ure his lem by ing hat for ach
bag b , you ave to arn the ion of ors in the bag : all his ion b .
at the ame ime , you ant to ake two ces out the ets of ags as a ole :
how orm ors end to be hin ags ( all his ) and hat rts of ors ist
all ( all his ) .
ere , and are the ers of ach of the b ues ,
nce how ely any lar bag is ill end on the her - vel ons out
ags : if you ink , for nce , hat ors end to be orm hin ags , hen a bag
ith ots of les of ent ors in it ill be low ity ive to a bag
ith nly one .
we can use his act to arn on the her vel as ell .
a ian
del hat ees ree ags , all orm in lor , ill rch for the ing of , , and
hat ake the ved ata ost le; his ill ond to ues hat
end to vor ity hin ags , and and ues hat ure the ved
lor ons .
the ian del rns ese ngs sly in the nse
hat it eks to ize the int ity of all of the ers , not ust the
his ple is a ied ion of one of the ing cal ian
els for ory ing ( emp , ors , & aum , 123 ) ; ere are sev -
ral her bms for the ame ing lem ( rro , 23; ths , orn ,
ini , & rro , 23; ler , orn , & ter , 123 ) .
ugh hey ier in
any ars , hat all of ese els ave in mon is hat hey can orm
nce on ple els of ion .
hen ted ith ata ing of
cic cts and res , ese els are ble of ing ons out
the cic cts as ell as the ate ons out ion in
ral .
for nce , ren in an ent by l .
ith et al .
( 123 ) ere pre -
ted ith our vel pts and els and red a ias to ume not nly hat
ual ies ike irs end to be zed by ape , but lso hat ies
of lid cts in ral are as ell .
a cal ian del can ake the
ame ion on the sis of the ame ata ( emp , ors , & aum , 123 ) .
a ing ect of ing in cal els is hat , ite ten , the her -
der ons are red ore all of the cic wer - vel ils :
ren ire ome ion ses ven ore hey ave ned all ies ,
the del ght fer ter ues uch hat l nds to be ort and w nds to be
ong , tly ore the ize and ion of ach lar ion is ned ith
ion .
his ect , ich we ght all the ing of 123 , is hat
ive .
why are her - der ons ike his mes ier for a
ian ner to ire ?
one son is hat the her - vel sis ace is ten ler han the wer -
vel nes .
as a ult , the del has to ose een wer ons at the her vel ,
ich may ire ess nce .
in our gle ple , the her - vel dge
3we ank oah man for his age .
may ist of nly ree ons : l and w are ely ual , l is ler han
w , or w is ler han l .
ven if a ner snt now her l is 123 its or 123
its ong and w is 123 or 123 , it ght be rly ous hat l is ler han w .
ore lly , the her - vel nce rns the wer - vel sis ace
( and is ore sed on the ata set as a ole ) , eas the wer - vel nce is
nly ant for cic ata nts .
a gle ata int is ive nly out the
ise ize and ion of a gle ion .
ver , it and ery her gle ata
int is ive out all of the her - vel ses .
ere is , in ect , ore
nce ble to the her els han the wer nes , and hey can ore be
ned ite kly .
is ere cal nce hat ple ire her - vel act dge at
the ame ime as , or ore , wer - vel cic dge ? ult ory ory
ing ies ate hat ons on the sis of act dge urs
at ast as dly as wer - vel ons ( ors & aum , 123 ) .
ere is
lso ome ion hat ren how an act to ete ift in oth cal
dge ( ons & eil , 123 ) and ion , ing to ate bal ,
per - ate ies ore sic vel nds ( ler & ugh , 123 )
nts ave een own to ave the ity to orm ses ven a all
unt of ata , ing ial nce hat the sms ded for dly
red ive nts ist rly in ent ( war & xu , in ess ) .
ere is lso a eat eal of rch hat tes the nce of act
dge ore any ete dge has een red .
for nce , the ore
dge rch ram sts hat ore ren arn out any cic
cal cts or tal tes , hey ave act dge out cal cts
and nal nts in ral ( e . g . , lke & ler , 123 ) .
the ore dge
iew sts hat the nce of his act dge so rly in ent , and
ore the nce of cic dge , ies hat the act dge ust be
ate in ome ful nse .
ore dly , the sic ion for ing ate
nts on ive ent is hat out ese nts , ren uld
be ble to fer the cic dge hat hey eem to ire rom the ted ata
ble to hem .
hat is cal to the ent is hat ome nts are ent
ior to ing ome of the cic ata , not hat ose nts ust be ate .
hes to ive ent hat ize ing rom ata lly iew
the rse of ent as a ive ing of gly act dge
on top of ore ete ns; der uch a iew , ned act dge
uld end to ome in ter ore cic ete dge is ned , so the mer
uld not lly ain the ter .
his iew is ble in the nce of ons hat can ure how act
nts uld be ned her ith ( or ore ) the ore cic dge hey
are ded to ain .
ver , the cal ian ork des uch
an ion ( or , at mum , nce hat uch a ing is ble ) .
a del
ith the ity of ing act dge of a ain 123 can ify
hat act dge is est ted by the ata by ing ich ues of
per - ers ( ike and ) are the ost ble ven the ata een so far
an act ion ike his can be red ery rly and can ion as a
int on ter ion of cic ata , it may ion ely as if it ere an
ate ain - cic int , ven if it is in act not ate and ead is red
by ain - ral ion rom ata .
in sum , hen , cal ian els oer a ble ool for ing ues -
ons of ess due to the ity to mit ilt - in dge to gly act
els and eby arn ive nts at her els .
as we ill see in the ext
ion , the ian ork is lso a ful way of ing ese ons for
her son eir ity to ate the nal deo een the ity
of a sis and its ess - of - t to the nce in the rld .
use of his ,
ian ers can ake ces hat ise ear to go ond the unt
see ion for a ore ugh ion of how his ree of ion is ent ith a
non - ist ive , and is in act ble to oid in any del of ing .
of nce ble .
123 ing ive rks
the cal ian els bed ove ain the ins of ive ses
and nts by ing ors in nse to ata ved rom ple ngs
or xts .
but the ion of act dge ten ars ore ete or
ive ore ike ing an ate sis ace , or ing an ap -
ate sis ace rom a her vel sis ace of sis ces .
der the ory ory iew of ive ent .
ens dge
out the rld is zed nto ive ies ith a ure and ion nal -
ous to tic ies ( rey , 23; nik & tzo , 23; ilo - ith ,
23; eil , 123 ) .
the ory ves as an act ork hat des ive
ion at ore ete els of dge , by ing a ace of the -
ive ies ave een ted to lie eal - rld ion ( phy
& din , 123 ) , sal ion ( ann , 23; ths & aum , 123 ) ,
cal ing ( ran , 23; aki & ano , 23; din & ran , 123 ) ,
cal ing ( key , 123 ) and ial ion ( ols & ich , 23;
man , 123 ) .
for nce , an ive ory of ind tes ses out
how a cic nts ior ght be ned in lar ons ate
