ple ely ake ted sal ces sly , ef - sly , and rom ery tle ata ten rom ust one or a few ob - ons .
we gue hat ese ces can be ned as ian ons ver a sis ace of sal cal els , ped by ong top - own ior dge in the orm of ive ies .
we ent two ase ies of our ach , ing ive mod - els of man sal nts and ief ons ith nal tom - up els of nce .
ple are bly ood at ing the sal ure of a tem rom ons of its ior .
ike any ive ask , sal nce is an ill - sed lem : the ata we see lly ine the rue sal ure .
his lem is rse han the ual ans mma hat ion oes not ply ion .
any ses of day sal nce low rom ust one or a few ons , ere ere snt ven ugh ata to bly fer ons ! his act ing , ost nal nts of sal nce mpt to ate ses in a tom - up ion sed on cal ons .
ese ude ist els ( 123 ) , as ell as ore ent nal els hat ody an cit ept of ion ( 123 , 123 ) , and ost hms for ing sal yes ets ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ere we gue for an ive top - own ach , hin the sal yes net ame - ork .
in ast to ard tom - up hes to ure ing ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ich aim to ize or ate ver all ble sal els ( res and ers ) , we ose hat ple der nly a ely ned set of ses ned by eir ior dge of how the rld rks .
the wed sal ses not nly orm a all set of all ble sal phs , but lso ate cic sal cha - sms ith ned nal ity les , her han uch ore ral con - nal nce and nce ons .
the ior dge hat tes his sis ace of ble sal els can be ght of as an ive ory , ous to the tic ies of cal han - ics or ics hat ate ned ces of ble sal els in eir ins .
ing the ons of ent ork in ive ent ( wed in ( 123 ) ) , we ake the nce of ong ive ies to be the ion for man sal nce .
ver , our iew sts ith ome ent ons ( 123 , 123 ) hat
an ive ory may be ted as a sal yes net del .
her , we der a ory to be the ing les hat ate the nge of sal ork els lly ble in a ven ain the ons hat low a ner to uct and son ith ate sal ork ses out vel ems in the nce of mal ual put .
ven the sis ace ted by an ive ory , sal nce hen ows the ard ian igm : ing ach sis ing to its ior rob - ity and ing eir ons out the tem ing to ose hts .
the ion of ian sal nce ith ong top - own dge is ite wer - ful , ing us to ain les ery pid ces out del ity in oth tic and lly ded ins .
ere we ent two ase ies of our ach , ing ive els of man sal nts and ief ons ith ore
123 ing den sal ers
we gin ith a igm ced by nik and bel for ing sal fer - nce in ren ( 123 ) .
cts are own a ber of cks , ong ith a ine the ket tor .
the ket tor tes hts up and kes ise hen - ver a ket is ced on it .
ome of the cks are ets , ers are not , but eir ard nce is no ide .
cts rve a ies of als , on ach of ich one or ore cks are ced on the tor and the tor tes or not .
hey are hen ked ich cks ave the den sal wer to ate the ine .
nik and bel ave ted ous ons der ich ren lly fer the sal tus of cks rom ust one or a few ons .
of lar est is eir rds ing ion ( 123 ) : on ial 123 ( the 123 - 123 ial ) , ren rve two cks ( ) ced on the tor and the tor tes .
ost ren
is ced on now say hat oth the tor one and the tor tes .
now all ren say hat is a ket , and is not a ket .
ely , his is a ind of ing way : ing ost say hat is ent to ate the tor one ins way the sly ved
are ets .
on ial 123 ( the 123 one ial ) ,
ith tor ion .
but no dge
are on the or;
nts the sis hat
nik et al .
( 123 ) est hat ens sal ing ere may be ght of in rms , hat is of ing the ure of a sal yes net .
ure 23a ows a yes net , ent ith ens nts ter ial 123
les nts her the tor es; the nce of an dge
has the wer to urn on the tor .
we ode the is a ket hat
if ock 123 is on the tor
and ock 123 , and ) , ise for if the tor is ive ( lse , ard yes net ing hms ven nly the ata ave no way to rge on tss ice .
the ata are not ent to ute the nal nce ons red by int - sed ods ( 123 , 123 ) , 123 nor to gly nce the ian ral ore ing ary nal ity les ( 123 ) .
ard cal els of sal gth ent ( 123 , 123 ) , ent to mum - ood ter tes for the ily of yes ets in ure 23a ( 123 ) , her ict no ing way ere or ake no ion due to ent ata .
nik et al .
( 123 ) gue hat int - sed ing uld be ied ere , if we ent the ved ata ith rge ers of nal ons .
ver , his unt oes not ain why cts ake the ces hat hey do rom the ery ted ata lly ved , nor why hey are ied in ing so .
nor oes it ize to the ree nts we ent ere .
is a ket but
ely , ing on his ask uld be ned in rms of a ple cal duc - ion .
we ire as a ise the ion law : a ket tor tes if and nly if one or ore ets are ced on it .
sed on the ion law and the ata we can uce hat ins ned .
if we her ume a orm of ams zor , ing the mal ber of den sal ers , hen we can is not a ket , as ost ren do .
her ses ied by nik et al .
can be ned rly .
ver , his ive del not ain any ble but ive sal ces hat ple ake , or les ees of nce in eir nts , or eir ity to fer tic sal ips rom isy ata ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
it lso ves ous the gin and orm of ams zor .
in sum , her ive gic nor ard yes net ing des a ing unt of les pid sal ces .
we now how how a ian ral nce sed on ong top - own dge can ain the ket tor nts , as ell as ral oba - tic nts hat rly eed the ity of ive nts .
ost lly , the top - own dge kes the orm of a sal ory ith at ast two nts : an ogy of ect , ute and ent pes , and a set of sal les ing ese nts .
ere we eat ies nly ly; we are tly ing a mal ent ing the ols of tic nal gic ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
in the sic ket tor ain , we ave two nds of cts , cks and es; two ant tes , ing a ket and ing a ket or; and two nds of nts , a ock ing ced on a ine and a ine ing .
the sal ple ing ese nts and tes is ust the ion law ced ove .
ead of ing as a ise for ive nce , the sal law now tes a sis ace of sal yes ets for cal nce .
his ace is ite ted : ith two cts and one tor , ere are nly 123 ent ses ( ure 23a ) .
the are lso ned by the ory .
sed nal ies for ach sis
on the ion law , ise it als 123
to the set of ses ent ith
sal nce hen ows by ian ing of ies ver in ght of the ved ata .
we ume ent ons so hat the tal ood , the ual - ial ors nto ate rms for ual als .
for all ses in ods lso tor nto , and we can ore the
ing hat ock ons are ent of the ast two rms
is 123 for any sis ent sal ure .
the ing erm
ith the ata and 123 ise , use of the tic ion law .
the ior for any ata set is hen ply the ion and ion of the ior
rds ing eds as ows .
ter the 123 - 123 ial ( be a ket : the ent ses are
ain ent .
the ior ver sal res
ows ( all ers are ero ) :
) , at ast one ock ust .
ter the 123 one ial , ing hat ach ock has ome ent
of ing a ket .
the ero ior ies are hen ven as fol -
lly , the
ity hat ock may be ted by ing the ons of all ent ses ted eir ior ies :
ore lly , we uld low for ome ise in the tor , by ing the ood : ;=> : ? ( @cb ' dfe be tic her han tic .
for ity we der nly the ise -
ess ase re; a low vel of ise uld ive lar lts .
is a ket
; hen , ter the 123 one ial ,
is bly not (
in ing ith man nts in the rds ing igm , the ant , the ine nts ore her ock is ced on
, nts ter the 123 - 123 al; and
nts ter the 123 one ial .
ese ies end nly on the ior oba - ity of ets , ely hes ens rds ock - ing ior : ter the 123 - 123 ial , oth cks are ore ely han not to be ets is ely a ket ile
hus ere is no eed to sit a ial
ams zor ust to ain why mes ike ess ely to be a ket ter the 123 one ial his ent ows lly as a nal cal nce .
ver , we do ave to ume hat ets are hat are ( ) .
ing the 123 one ) , use the ous ial the ity of ond ial ins way all the nce for
ock 123 uld ain ely to be a ket ven ter the 123 one ial .
in der to est her man sal ing lly ies his ian orm of ams zor , or ead a ore ive ule uch as the cal ion , ies uld not be ied ond ity , we ted ree new ket - tor ex - nts on oth lts and 123 - ear - old ren ( in ion ith bel & nik ) .
the rst two nts ere ust ike the nal rds ing ies , ept hat we ted cts tes of by ing a ing ase .
cts rst saw 123 cts ced on the tor , of ich her 123 , in the are ion , or 123 , in the mon ion , ted the tor .
we zed hat his ma - ion uld ead cts to set eir ive ior for ets to her
, and hus , if ded by the ian ams zor , to how ong or eak
ing a ket rns to ine (
rom the rst ial .
hus for
we ave ult cts a ent ver ory , ing per ils and a ead tor , but ere we ate the lts nto ket tor rms .
ing the are ere ked at dom rom the ame or mon ing , two new cts ile and cts ere ked ree mes to dge the ity hat ach one uld ate the tor : rst , ore ing it on the tor , as a ne; ond , ter a 123 - 123 al; ird , ter a 123 one ial .
ies ere ged on a 123 - 123 ale and hen led to the nge 123 - 123
the ean ult ity nts and the del ons are own in res 23a ( are ) and 23b ( mon ) .
ver two cts ave the ame ern of ved tin - at ine and ter the 123 - 123 ial ) , cts ean nts ere und not to be tly ent and ere ged her for his sis .
in to tch cts ine ts; the est - ing val - ing the del , we ted ues ere ery ose to the rue ase tes .
ore gly , cts nts ked the ian del ver oth als and ons .
ing the 123 - 123 ial , ean ngs of oth cts sed ove ine , but ore so in the are ion ere the iva - ion of the tor was ore ing .
ing the 123 one ial , all cts in oth ons ere 23% ure hat had the wer to ate the tor , and the ean ned to ine : low in the are ion , but igh in the mon con - ion .
our - ear - old ren ade yes / no nts hat ere ely lar , oss oth are and mon ons ( 123 ) .
man sal nce hus ars to low nal cal les , ing the ian ion of ams zor her han the cal cal ion .
ver , an ive ion of our ata is hat cts are ply ing a ion of cal ing and ple ics .
ing the 123 one ial , ple uld log - lly uce hat hey ave no ion out the tus of and hen all ack on the ase ate of ets as a ult , out the eed for any ely ian com - ons .
to ule out his ity , our ird udy ted sal ing way in the
nce of ous ata hat uld be sed to ort ive ing .
cts ain saw the are ing , but now the cal als ved ree cts , .
ter ing the ine ity hat ach ect uld ate the tor ,
cts saw two als : a 123 - 123 ial , wed by a 123 - 123 ial , in ich cts ted the tor her .
the ian sis ace is ous to ure 23a , but now des ght ( ing all ble nts of sal ers to the ree cts .
as ore , the ior ver sal res
, the ood be ten as
( der the ion law ) and 123 ise , and to 123 for any sis ent ith may be ted by ing the is a ket the ity hat ock
ior ies of all ent ses , e . g . ,
ure 23c ows hat the ian els ons and cts ean nts tch ell ept for a ght oot in the del .
ing the 123 - 123 ial , ple dge hat bly tes the tor , but now ith ess han 23% nce .
ond -
gly , the ity hat tes the tor ses , to a vel ove ine but low 123 .
all of ese pre - ted cts are lly ant (
tes the tor ses , and the ity hat
, one - led red t - sts ) .
ese lts ide ong ort for our aim hat pid man ces out sal ure can be ned as ory - ded ian ons .
rly ing is the ast een the cts of the 123 one ial and the 123 - 123 ial .
in the mer ase , cts rve sly hat lls ely to ne; in the ter , hey rve nly a ous nce and so ing way is not ete .
a cal ive ism ght ate the all - or - one ing - way ved in the mer ase , ile a tom - up ive ing ism ght ate the ete ect een in the ter ase , but nly our top - own ian ach lly ins the ull rum of one - hot sal ces , rom nty to nty .
is a use and eir ent out
123 sal nce in ion
our ond ase udy ues for the nce of sal ies in a ery ent ain : ing the ics of ons and ons .
tes ( 123 ) ies of sal ion wed hat a ing all ing to est ext to a ary all uld be ved as the use of the ers ent ion nly if ere was lly no gap in ace or ime een the end of the rst lls ion and the ing of the sec - ond lls .
the ard ion is hat ple ave tic ual sms for ing ain nds of cal sal ons , uch as fer of rce , and ese sms are ven by ple tom - up ues uch as ial and ral ity .
ure 23a ows ata rom an ent bed in ( 123 ) ich ght ear to ort his iew .
cts wed a ter een ing a ong tal eam .
at one end of the eam was a rap oor , sed at the ing of ach ial .
on ach ial , a avy , the rap oor ock was ped nto the eam at ome ion ned and a all ew out .
cts ere old hat the ock ing on the eam ght ave red ose a tch hat ens the oor , and hey ere ked to dge ( on a how ely it was hat the ock ing was the use of the oor ing .
the nce ing ese two nts ere ied oss als .
ure 23a ows hat
, and ter ome ime
ses , the ged ity of a sal ink ses .
son ( 123 ) sed hat his ent uld be zed as a ian nce ith two ive ses : , hat no sal ink sts .
he ted hat the ood uld be uct of ing als in ace and ime ,
, hat a sal ink sts , and
the oor ate
, the oor ens if and nly if the ise ude
bly be ant .
his del has ree ree ers the cay nts , and the ior ity lus ive and ive ing ers to ing the del uts nto the ame nge as the ata .
ure 23c ows hat his del can be ted to t the oad nes of the ata , but it ses the ver rac - ion : in the ata , but not the del , the cal age of all ces ces ars and ven ses as his ver may ect the nce of a uch ore ted ory of rce ans - fer han is red by the ral cay del .
ure 23b ows a sal cal ure ing a ied cal del of his ion .
the aph is a mic yes net ( dbn ) , ing ces out the ems ior ver ime .
ere are our sic ent pes , ach xed by ime can be her pen ) , and nce pen it ays pen .
ere is an sic rce ) or sed (
in the oor ism , ich we ake to be i . i . d . , ero - ean ian
ach ime tep old ( ich we ake to be 123 out oss of ity ) .
the ock its the eam at ) , ing up a ion in the oor ism ith en -
we ume his rgy ses ing to an rse wer law ith the nce een the ock and the oor , ing it nto the ter low . ) for ity , we ume hat rgy tes sly rom the ock to the oor ( ble ven the eed of und ive to the ces and mes sed ere ) , and hat ere is no nal ing ver ime ) .
son ( 123 ) lso hes an unt ong ese nes , ugh he des no mal del .
nds tly on the nce of the ise the ger the nce , the ner the oor uld pop pen .
at sue is her ere sts a sal ink een the ion ich ses the oor to pen
( we can ays set
sed by the ock ing and the ise
, the oor ops en; we ote his ent as
the ood of
( sal ink ) and
of the nal rgy
ely , we ose hat sal nce is sed on the ies der the two ses ome low sic vel
( no sal ink ) .
the ise nce has is sed by ome ion
) lly or ugh ion .
we can hen lve for the ods , ing ree ree ers , we ake the mit as the sic ise vel , lus ive and ive ing ers , ust as in the ral cay del .
ure 23b ots the ( led ) ior ies for the est ing ter ues .
in ast to the ral cay del , the dbn del res the ver ion een ace and ime .
, ich der .
hat is ,
his nce een the two els is tal , not ust an ent of the ram - ter ues sen .
the ral cay del can ver uce a ver ect .
a ver of ome orm is ric in due to its nal orm ble in the dbn del , use its ons lly low an ial cay ion on ith a cay ate hat is a ear ion of .
her cal els ith a ble orm uld ely be sed to t his ata as ell .
the gth of our del ies in its ion of nal cal nce and tic cal iva - ion .
ese lts est hat ver ema of rce fer is in les ins , it ust ody a ore lex ion een ial and ral ors han is as - med in nal tom - up els of sal nce , and its nal orm may be a nal nce of a ich but cit cal ory hat ies les tan - ous pts of ity .
it is an ing pen ion her man ers can use his dge nly by ing out an ine ion in lel ith eir ons , or can ess it in a led orm to ret tom - up ral ues out the eed to uct any cit nal ons .
in two ase ies , we ave red how ple ake pid ces out the sal ure of eir ent .
we ave ued hat ese ces can be ned est as ian ons , ing ver sis ces gly ned by top - own sal ies .
his ork wed us to uct ive els of sal ent the ost ate els to ate in oth ins , and in the ket tec - tor ain , the nly ely ive del to ate .
our els ake a ber of ive and tic ons out cts of the ent hat are not tly ble to man ers .
rom a tic int his ght eem nde - le; we uld ike to ork rds els hat ire the est ber of a ori ons .
yet we eel ere is no ing the eed for ful top - own nts on sal nce , in the orm of ive ies .
in ing ork , we are ing to udy the ins of ese ies ves .
we ect hat ian ing cha - sms lar to ose red ere ill lso be ful in ing how we ire the nts of ies : act sal les and cal pes .
