man ion sts on a que ent for ing ble dge rom a few cic les .
der how a ild ght rst asp the ing of a mon ord , uch as rse .
ven ral les of ses led tly by her nts , she is ely to ake an ive eap hat oes far ond the ata ved .
she uld now dge her any new ity is a rse or not , and she uld be tly ect , ept for the nal key , eer or mel .
the ity to ize rom rse ata is ial not nly in ing ord ngs , but in ing out the ies of cts , ect ons , ial les , and any her ins of dge .
his cle bes ent rch hat eks to and man ive ing and ing in nal rms ( see lso ual ons ial by ter , aum and lle in his sue ) .
the oal is to ild dly ble , ely ive els hat ate mal in ral nts , and eby ain why man ion rks the way it oes and how it can eed ven uch rse ata ( 123 , 123 ) .
our cus is ies ( 123 ) , ing the nal ies of man nce her han cic cal ses hat ent
ost ous nts of ive ion ent one of two hes .
the rst ses
ing hor : aum , j .
( mit . edu ) .
on ely ain - ral , dge - ent cal sms of nce , sed on ity , ion , ion or her cal ics ( 123 , 123 123 ) .
his ach has led to ful cal els of man ion in ory sks , but ils to unt for any ant ena of ing and ing in lex , eal - rld ins , uch as ive ogy , ive ics or ive ogy .
the ond ach ims to ure ore of the ess of man nce , by ing to ted ain - cic dge ons , or ive ies ( 123 ) .
an ive ory may be ght of as a tem of ted pts , her ith a set of sal aws , ral nts , or her ory les , hat ide ive nce in a lar ain .
ver , ory - sed hes to ion ave een sly ult to ize , rly in rms hat ake ive ons out ior or can be ood in rms of nal
we ill gue for an ive ach , ere red dge and cal nce ate her han ete , ing us to ild on the hts of oth ons .
we ast ion as a orm of ian cal nce ver red tic els of the rld .
ese els can be een as tic ive ies ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) or mas ( 123 , 123 ) , ing the dge out a ain hat les ive ion rom rse ata .
his ach has nly ome ble in ent ars , as ces in ial nce ( 123 ) and ics ( 123 ) ave ded ial ols for ing ive ies and ory - sed cal nce is nal , as ese ian ive els ave led to new ine - ing hms ith ore ful and ore man - ike ies ( 123 , 123 ) .
ory - sed ian els ory - sed ian els of ion cus on ree ant ons : hat is the ent of tic ies , how are hey sed to ort pid ing , and how can hey ves be ned ? the ner tes ses h out ome ect of the rld the ing of a ord , the ion of a rty or ory , or the nce of a den use ven ved ata x and ect to the nts of a
www . ect . com 123 - 123 / $ - see ont ter q 123 ier ltd .
all hts ved .
doi : 123 / j . ics . 123 . 123
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
und ory t .
ses are red by ing ior ies via yes ule :
jx; t z
3ht 23; 3jt
the ood p ( xjh , t ) res how ell ach sis cts the ata , and the ior ity p ( hjt ) ses the ity of the sis ven the ers und dge .
ior bil - ies p ( hjx , t ) are nal to the uct of ese two rms , ing the ers ree of ief in ach sis ven oth the nts of the und ory t and the ved ata x ( see the cal ion to his ial sue by ths and lle for her und : ary ial ine ) ing his ian ork is ust the ing int for our ive els .
the nge mes in ing sis ces and ity ons hat ort ian nce for a ven ask and ain .
in ory - sed ian els , the ain ory ays his ial ole .
ore lly , the ain ory t tes a ace ht of ate ses , uch as all ble ngs for a ord , ong ith the ors p ( hjt ) and ods p ( xjh , t ) .
ior ies and ods are hus not ply cal rds of the ers ous ons , as in ome ian ses of ion and tor rol ( 123 , 123 ) , or ous ian ses of ive ing ( 123 ) .
her are hey med to are a gle sal ure oss all ins , as in rds ing ian sis of ion ( 123 ) .
her , hey are cts of act ems of dge hat go lly ond the ers ect nce of the rld , and can ake ely ent rms in ent ins .
we ill ish at ast two ent els of dge in a ory ( ure 123 ) .
ugh ive ies may ell be uch her han his ure sts , we cus on the mal cts of ies ded to ort ive ion .
the ase vel of a ory is a red tic del hat nes a ity ion ver ble les ies , ies , les , nts .
his del lly ilt on ome ind of aph ure ing ons een les , uch as a mic chy or a sal ork , her ith a set of cal ers .
the aph ure nes ive cts of the tic el; the eri - cal ers ine ore ne - ned ive ils .
at a her vel of dge are act les hat ate the ass of red els a ner may der , uch as the ion hat a ven ain is zed lly or lly .
nce at all els of his ory chy ( ure 123 ) ing ies to fer ved cts of the ata , ing red els ven the act ain les of a ory , and ing the act ain les ves can be ied out in a ied and ble way ith cal ian els ( 123 ) .
p ( les |
act ain les
p ( ure | les )
red tic del
p ( ata | ure )
nds in ive ces
ure 123
a cal ian ork for ory - sed ion .
the ner ves ata out the rld ( e . g .
les of cts hat a ord ers to ) and ust ict her ved ata ( e . g .
ich her cts the ord can fer to ) .
the ers ive ory tes ses hat can ain the ved ata and hat ort the red ons .
the ory nts dge on at ast two els of ion : a red tic del tes ons out the ity of ble ata ets , ile ore act ain les ate the ace of ble res hat the ner may der .
ach vel tes the ses and ity ons hat ort ing at the vel low .
ors for act ain les can ome rom ple ces , ing her - vel ain dge or ain - ral ual ces .
the ing ons ibe ory - sed ian els for ral ant ive sks , ing hem ith ive hes ing her cal ing or red dge one .
we gin ith the ask of ing rds or ory els , and cus on the est vel of nce : ory - sed ion .
hen we ate the ull cal ach in two her ins , rty ion and
ing mes for ngs ral ies of man ive ion bly gan ith the udy of ory ing ( 123 ) .
the sic tal ask nts ers ith a set of cts or ual uli , and a bal bel ( e . g .
ket ) hat ies to a set of the cts .
ers rve ral les of ets , and aps ive les ( non - ets ) , and ust hen fer ich her cts the bel ies to .
ese ial ory - ing sks act the nce of the lem ren ace in ing rds for nds of ngs , and mal els of ory - ing and ord - ing ave ped in lel .
hey lly ely on tom - up ral - ose cal sms , her tly tic ( 123 , 123 ) or med in rms of ity or ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ese els ume ely ple ons of ies and how els ate to ies : for nce ( 123 ) , ach ect ngs to a gle ory , and ach bel cks out a que ory , so ach ect ves tly one bel .
ver , les ons of ies and ord ngs are bly ore
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
red , ing eir ive ain ies .
the eed for a ore ory - sed ach has ten een ted out ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , but ely ued by
hts rom oth ese ons ome her in a ian ork ( 123 ) .
in rms of ion 123 , ses out the ing of a vel bel fer to ets of cts ate ons for a rds ing or a ory to be led .
act dge out ory ure , ord age , and ord - ory ngs tes the ors and ods for ese ses .
aum and xu ( 123 , 123 ) cus on ing mes for ect - ind pts , ich are lly zed nto a ree - red omy ith els at ous els ( 123 , 123 ) .
gly , the sis ace of ate ord ngs sts of all ees in a ree - red omy of cts ( in ure 23a , ees ond to set nds , ogs , als , etc . ) .
her lly ble ets of cts not ing to ees are ely ned ero ( or ery low ) ior ity .
the ior can be her ted to vor ngs of rds nto sic - vel ies ( 123 ) , or to vor ing two rds nto tly the ame ept
the ood ies a tic ion hat rds ill be sed by a ent and ive ker ( 123 ) , and hat the cts led are a air dom ple rom the set of cts hat the ord ies to .
ese ors and ods ine to ain how ren ize ect els rom one or ral les .
ure 23b ows hat ion ows a ent ing to mic nce , ich ens up ven ple les to cus on the ost cic ent mic ory : e . g .
set nds if the les are all set nds , or ogs if the les are all ogs but ent nds of ogs .
ion ong mic urs ves rom the ree - red ior .
in ple , a ior uld be ned ver her nal res , uch as a ean ace red rom ity nts , as is mon in ity - sed els ( 123 ) .
but to ate , ree - red ors ave een the sis for the ost ate ian els of ord - ing , ent ith a sed mic ias in ens ord ing ( 123 ) .
the ing of ion ith ore les ves rom the ood : a gle ple is not hly tic out the ope of the rds ion ,
ent and ive ker mly led les
123 sic 123 per .
ure 123
ory - sed ian ord ing .
( a ) ing rds for ect ies , rom les of bel irs .
cts are ven iar els to ate the lem ced by a ild ner .
a ree - red omy of ies ses the sis ace of ord ngs : ach ode in the ree ( red dot ) is a ble ion of a ord .
act les ain the ure of his sis ace , and ate the ors and ods ary to ate ese ses ven ata ( 123 ) .
( b ) son of the els ons ith 123 - ear - old ens rns of ion ( ary ngs rom ( 123 ) ) .
for oth ren and the del , the ity of ion ses ith mic nce to the les , and his ent mes per as ore les are ved .
see ext for
nds in ive ces
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
but ing ral les awn at dom , it uld be a hly ous nce for all les to all hin a ven mic ory ( e . g .
set nds ) if the ord in act had a uch der ion ( e . g .
ogs ) ,
the ncy for ler , ore cic ses to be gly red ver ger , ore ral ses as ore les are ved is a ral ple of ian ing hen mly led les are med .
aum and ths ( 123 ) red to his as the ize ple and wed how it uld lly ain a ide nge of ena in ory ing , ion , and ity ent , ich ere not sly ied der a gle nal - nce unt .
the dom - ing ion is not ays lid , of rse , and the ize ple may be gly ble .
xu and nen - aum ( hed ata ) ave und its cts are ced or ted hen ord ers ( ren or lts ) are ven les hat are rly not awn as ent dom les .
his ian ork has een ded to ing her cts of tic ing , ing tly red sis ces ate for ing erb mes ( 123 ) , ves ( 123 ) , or ora ion ( 123 ) .
ere are lso ear nec - ons to ian tic ion ( see ter and ing , his sue ( 123 ) ) .
ese ian ses ave sed on ing at the tom vel of ure 123 ing out ich rds can fer to ich ies , ons or ies .
ure ork uld ore ing the her - vel dge hat rts ese ces for nce , how ple arn the les hat ure ord - ory ngs , or the ant mic ree of ies ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the ing ion bes a ely ted ing ask ere ian ces at her els of ure 123 ave een zed
ing out den ies any nds of tes may be rue of a ven ity .
ome of ese tes ond to ory els ( is a rse , is a sh ) but any ond to ies , uch as is own , has a een , or can y .
rty ion has een the ect of ous ral nts and mal els .
in a cal ask , ers nd out hat one or ore ies ave a vel rty , and ust ide how to end the rty to her ies in the ain .
for nce , cts ght be old hat las and ons rry a ain ene , and ked to dge how ely it is hat eys lso rry his ene ( 123 , 123 ) .
ory - sed rty ion the ost tic ies of rty ion ave sed cal ies and ank ies : ies ike has the 123 ene hat are iar but bly cal .
a ree - sed ian del ( 123 ) lar to the aum and xu ( 123 ) ord - ing del nts ell for nts out ank cal ies .
the del mes hat ies are zed nto a
ree - red omy ( 123 ) , and hat ies are ted by a ion ess ver his ree ( ure 23a , eft ) .
the ion ess tes a ior ver ate ons of tes hat is ore ble han nal lic tic ies ( or the ord - ing ior in ( 123 ) ) : ies hat ick out a gle ree of the omy are red , but oly - tic ies ( ose hat ise tly in two or ore ees ) are lso wed ( ure 23b ) .
his del tes mal nce for cal ies and eir ies , ich are in act ted by a tic ing ess the ess of ion .
oth the ree ure and ome ion - ike ess for ing rty ons eem to be nt; ian els ing a nge of her ors ave tly ted ess ell ith les nts
ous nal els for ank - rty ion ave sed ore ric dge sen - ons , uch as ise ies ( 123 ) or ons of res ( 123 ) .
in son ith ese els , ory - sed hes ave ear ges in ing ces out her nds of tes , ere ore zed ior dge is ved .
ely ent rns of ion ave een und for cal ies , ral ies and ase ies ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
to ite one sic ple , ven hat les can ite ugh ire , it ems ely hat man rds can ite ugh ire , but ing hat ans can ite ugh ire des ess ort for the ame ion out man rds ( 123 ) .
ese ces not ely on ity , use man rds are ore lar to ans han to les .
her ces ear to ely on ric sal ons : for ple , a ase ied by mon is ore ely to be und in zly ars han ice
ian els can unt for ese ent rns of ion by ing ent ors ( 123 ) .
in rms of ure 123 , ces out ent nds of ble tes are sed on ent nds of red tic els , ich are in urn ned by ent act ain les .
ral les are own in ure 23a .
in ach ase , the mic ree ure and the ion ess of the ult del are ced by a tly red aph and a ent ind of tic ess ver hat ure .
for ces out ase tes ( e . g .
ies sis ) , the ior is ted by a isy ion ess ver a ted ood - web ork ( ure 23a , dle ) .
his ior res the try of ons in his ain hat a rey ies is ore ely to are a ase ith its ors han ice rsa and ely cts les ive udg - nts out ase tes ( ure 23c ) .
a ate ike can ite ugh ire or ghs ore han an vil nds to an own old ong ome own ion ( e . g .
gth or ize ) .
a rly red aph can ent the ant ion , and nts old tes ( 123 , 123 ) can be led
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
has the 123 ene
ghs ore han an vil
ift ess + old
nds in ive ces
ure 123
ory - sed ian rty ion .
( a ) ree els for rty ion : a mic del ( eft ) , a ood - web del ( tre ) and a nal - old del ( ght ) .
ach del mes hat ies are ted by a ent tic ess ver a ent ind of aph ure , and ach del is ate for a ent ind of rty .
in the mic del , ies are ted by a ion ess : ere is a all ity of a rty ing at any int ong any nch of the ree .
in the ood - web del , ies are ted by a sal ion ess : ere is a all ity of a rty ing sly in any ies , and a igh ity of ing hat rty rom the ies to ach of its ors .
in the nal - old del , ies are ted by a dom - ift ess sed uch hat ies rds one end of the ion are gly ely to ave the vel rty .
the ata vel of the ure ows ies ith igh ior ity der ach of ese els : e . g .
the nal - old del ors ses hat ude all ies ond ome int in the ear der .
( b ) ree ble mes if a rty is ted by the mic del , own in der of ing ior ity : ies are ost ely if hey can be ned by a all ber of ons , and if ose ons cur on ong hes .
( c ) the nce of ain ies in ian els of rty ion is ted by a ble ion in del ons for two ent nds of ies ( ary ngs rom ( 123 ) ) .
nts ned oth a omy and a ood web ver a set of ies and ere ked to ake ive nts out her tic or ase ies .
the ian mic del ted gly ith nts for tic ies but not ase ies , and ice rsa for the ian ood - web del .
ing a ior ted by a dom ift ess ver hat aph ( ure 23a , ght ) .
ing ies to ort rty ion if tly red ies are ary to unt for ces out ent nds of tes , mes ven ore ing to ain how ese ies uld be red .
ian hes can ess his ion at all els of the ory chy in ure 123 , and we ate by ing how the mic ory ght be red ( ure 123 ) .
rst , der the lem of ing the ree ure ven raw ble ata , in the orm of a rge ion of ies - rty irs ( e . g .
ons ave arp eth , mps ave air , etc . ) .
ere are any ent ays to ize ies nto a ree
( ure 23a ) , but we can rch for the ree hat zes the ood p ( ure ) for the set of ved ies ( 123 , 123 ) .
ely , the est ice ows res to ary hly ver the ree : for ple , use las and eys are any ies , ese ies uld be ted rby in
his ach to ing a red tic del ies lly on act dge at the est vel in ure 123 : a mic ple ing hat ing nds uld be ted by a ree ure .
uld uch an act ain ple elf by red ? act dge of his ort is ten ght to be ate ( 123 , 123 ) , aps use it ems so ote rom the ata of nce .
ven an ate sis ace ,
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
nds in ive ces
ure 123
ing a ory for how cal ies are ted ver ies .
( a ) ven act ain dge hat ies uld be zed in a mic ree , ith ies ing hly ver hat ree , a ian ner can fer the ree ure hat est ins a set of ved ies .
two ays to ize mal ies nto a omy are own .
the red ure ill be the ree ver ich ved ies ary ost hly .
( b ) mal ies may be zed ing to ous ent ral les , uch as the ree own ere .
ian nce in the cal ork of ure 123 can ect the ing les est ted by a set of ved ies .
ver , ian nce can unt for dge ion at any vel of ion .
ose hat the ner has ess to a ire of ent ral rms hat des mic ees as ell as her sic ves , uch as one - nal ers and int ers ( ure 23b ) .
ing the est orm ves a ade - off een ity and t to the ata , ich can be zed in rms of the cal ian ork of ure 123
emp et al .
( 123 ) wed hat der his ade - off , the ged ies of cal ies are ter ted for by ees han her ear ers or ers .
in ary , the cal ian ork of ure 123 rts a ied ing del hat kes as put ata a ion of ies - rty irs , and tly ers the mic ple , ers the est ree ure for the ies in the set , and kes ons out how to ize new , ely ved ies .
it hus ins how the ory in ure 23a ( eft ) ght be red rom raw ata , and ise uld ain the ins of sis ces and ive ses for ord ing in ung ren sed in the ous ion .
ies can lso be red ugh her ses , uch as cit on; for ple , ood - web ons are lly ned hat way .
ike ity - sed nts of rty ion , a cal ian ach lly tes cit ons at any vel of ion , as ren lly ive rom nts or in ool : for ple , ins ath air ( at the vel of ble ata ) , ins are als ( at the vel of ure ) , and ing ngs can be zed nto a ree ( at the vel of act les ) .
his ach uld ain how ing a gle ent out ain ure ( e . g .
ins are als ) ght ead to tic ges in ces out
sal ing and ing the ole of ive ies in ing and ing has een ost tly ied in the ext of sal
ion ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for any ors , ity is ral to the ion of a ory .
rey , for nce , sts hat a ory ses a set of ena hat are in its ain , the sal aws and her ory sms in rms of ich the ena are ted for , and the pts in rms of ich the ena and ory tus are sed ( ( 123 ) , p .
the cal ian ork of ure 123 ves a ied unt of nce at all ese els , ing how sal els can be sed to ict and ain ble nts , how ain - cic les ide ion of ese els , and how hat act ain dge uld elf
at the est vel of the chy are ces out les ing ble nts .
for nce , a tor ght rve ain cts of a nts ate , uch as oms and isk ors , and ant to ict ers , uch as ses or ure oms .
ese sks ave ten een wed as tom - up cal ces ( 123 , 123 ) , but ere is nce to est hat ese ons are ten ven by sal dge ( 123 ) .
ent ork has ied to ain the ant dge and ces in nal rms ing the ism of sal cal els ( 123 , 123 ) .
ese els ute a lar ind of red tic del at the dle vel of ure 123
for ple , ure 23a ows a sal del hat uld be sed to ake ces out the ses of nts sed on eir oms and isk ors .
ory - sed ion of sal ure any ent ies ave ned how ple arn ese sal els .
ain ere ave een oth tom - up and top - own als .
tom - up hes ect cal ues to sal ure , uch as ncy een les ( 123 ) , zed tic ast ( 123 ) , or ial ons ( 123 ) .
ese ues , hen hey can be ted bly , low sal ure to be ned for any nds of les , out ive ior dge .
ver , oth lts and ung ren
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
ses : ( r , d , s ) ( sks , ses , oms ) sal aws : r d , d s
cts can ate nes ion res act nes are ( ear ) tic
ing in ory
ses : ( r , d , s ) sal aws : r d , d s
sal aws : c c
ses : ( r , d , s ) sal aws : d r , s s
nds in ive ces
ure 123
ory - sed ian sal ion .
act sal les ain the sal res hat may be ned to ure ies ong ble les .
( a ) act dge in a ple cal ain can be ted ing a aph ema , a tic ive mar for phs .
les all nto ree ses isk ors , ses , and oms ith sal ces nly rom sks to ses and ses to oms .
ven a wly ved ion ( e . g .
een ing in a ory and nic est ain ) , the aph ema tes a ned set of ses for how hat ata ght be ned ( own in red ) .
in the est ses , a ase own to be sed by ing in a ory ght use est ain , or a ase own to use est ain ght lly be ced by ing in a ory .
ing ese ies , the ner uld sit a new ase x , ich has est ain as a tom and is sed by ing in a ory .
her ses hat may be ler a ori but ich ate the ory uld ver be red , uch as a ect sal ink rom ing in a ory to est ain , or rom est ain to ing in a ory .
( b ) the act dge hat rts sal ing in a ple cal tem , the ket tor ( 123 , 123 ) , can be zed ing tic ate gic ( 123 , 123 ) .
the ory des ral les : ere is ome ity r hat any ect has the wer to ate the ne; an ous ect ill ate the ine pon act ith ity ear 23; ion has no her ses .
ble sal ons , ven a nce of ons een cks and the ine , are own in red .
in a ext in ich ost cts ave led to ate the ine ( r is all ) , oth ple and the ory - sed ian del fer hat ect a bly tes the ine , eas b and c bly do not ( 123 , 123 ) .
( c ) the ite nal del ( 123 ) rts a cal ian ach to ing ple rms of act sal ies .
aph mas ith ent ers of ses and ely ned sal aws can be red to ain ent nds of sal ork res hat a ner ght ter .
tly ake ect ces out sal ure rom ust a ful of ons , far too few to ute ncy or ion bly .
ese ces ust be ted by ore act ior dge , uch as dge out the nds of sal sms or res in a ain , ich has een the cus of ost top - own hes to sal ing ( 123 ) .
the ory - sed ian ork nce ain des the ans to ate tom - up and top - own ces .
in rms of ure 123 , p ( ure ) res the ood for a lar sal del how ell hat sal ure ins the ved ern of nts .
p ( les ) res the sal els ior ity how ell it ts ith the ers act ain dge .
the est sal del zes the uct of ese two ies .
if a sal del nts the ost sic ind of sal ory ( 123 , 123 ) , the act ain dge hat
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
ows ese els to be ned can be ght of as a her - vel ory a ory for ies .
ive sts ( 123 ) ave ten zed the ort - nce of ger - ale ork ies , ich ain the cic ies a ner ers , but hey ave not een ted lly .
the ept of tic els for red ons is ell - ped in nal ics ( 123 ) , ere act tic les may be zed in rms of tic ars hat ate ble tic res in a age ith ing ies .
ral als for ing act sal ies ave een red by his tic ogy ( 123 ) .
ese sal ars ( 123 ) are the dea of ing sal cal els sed on an ogy , ich ies the pes of ies in a ain and the tes hat can ply to hem , and a set of sal aws , ich ify the orm of wed sal ips een tes .
ely ing , the ogy tes the les hat ear in sal cal els , and the sal aws ate the ges and ted
ure 123 hes two les of his ach to ion ( 123 , 123 ) .
rst , der ing a sal ork ing isk ors , ses , and oms , ven ata on nts tes .
the ask is tly ied by an ogy hat des the les nto ree ses ses , oms , and isk ors and sal aws ned ver hat ogy , ing hat ect ces nly ist een isk ors and ses , and een ses and oms .
ese les can be zed ing a ind of tic aph mar hat ( 123 ) all a aph ema .
the mar ces ong nts on the sal res a ner ust der , and hus ows ong ces out sal ure to be awn rom rse ata ( ure 23a ) .
ond , der ent ies ing ory - sed sal ing ing ple cal ems uch as the ket tor ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ers are own a ber of cts , ong ith a ine hat tes ( hts up and kes ise ) ver ain cks are ced on it .
ter ing ral in ich ous ons of cts are ced on the ine , nts are ked ich cts ave the den sal wer to ate the ine .
ure 23b ows how ese nts can be led as ory - sed ian ces ded by ral ain les , uch as the ion law : the ine tes if and nly if it is in act ith an ect hat has the den sal wer .
his ory can be ast ore lly in tic ate gic ( 123 ) .
ike tom - up hes to sal ing , his unt lly ins any ngs ere lts and ung ren ake ect ces rom ust a few als , ven for cts hat ave ver red on the ine one ( 123 , 123 ) .
his ral ork for ory - sed sal ion has een sed to del how ple arn ore lex cal ems ith den les and mic ses ( 123 ) , and how ple ose mal nts to orm in sal ing ( 123 ) .
ing act sal ies the ion of how act sal les , or ame - ork ies , ght ves be ned is a jor pen ion in oth ial nce and ive ent .
for ome ple nds of ork now - dge , uch as the tic aph ars sed ove , it is ble to ate the ing lem as a ian nce hat can be ted ith ble rch hms .
the ite nal del ( irm ) ( 123 ) mes hat les ome in one or ore ses , ith ons een hem ing on ese ses .
the del can be sed to fer the ber of ses , ich les are in ich ses , and hat nds of ips old een ses , tly rom ata ( ure 23c ) .
his ach is ble of ing the act les of the ase ory own in ure 23a , but not the her ies sed on abi - tic ate gic ded to ain ces in ome her ems uch as the ket tor ( ure 23b ) .
ral ods for ing in tic cal ems ave tly een ced in ial nce ( 123 , 123 ) , ver , and ese ods uld ide the sis for ore ful els of man
the ory - sed ian ork des a mal ans to ess ral tal ons out man ion .
hat is the ent and orm of man dge , at ple els of ion ? how can act ain dge ide ing of new pts ? how can act ain dge be ned ? hat ual ces ust be ilt in ely ? how do sms of cal ing and
ons for ure rch how ght ory - sed ian els ply to her cts of ion ere red dge and ive nce ear to act , uch as ive ics , ive ogy , or can ian els of ept ing and ord ing be ted ith ian els of tic ion ( 123 ) to ive a ied ach to age ent ? how do ian els of ive nce ate to tic els of ( tly ) ive ing , uch as sis ing or tic ing ( 123 ) ? uld a cal ian ach ide ght nto her ons of ive ies des ion , uch as ogy or ike her cal gms , the ian ach is not ant to be ble in the ame nse hat a cic mpu - nal del uld be; it uld be ged in rms of her it ads to cic els ith ory lue oss a nge of ent ata ets .
hat cts of ive ies and ory - sed nce ill ove ult to ain rom a ian iew ? how uld ian hes to ion red ere tly at the vel of nal ory ( 123 ) be ted ith ble hms ? how can hey can be led ith cal ses hat ave mes ked lly ent ith ian les ( 123 ) ? ers of nce and tal sts ave ten ged eas out the ure , ion , and ins of ies .
can we ild cal ian els of tic ies ous to our els of ive ies ?
nds in ive ces vol . 123 no . 123 uly 123
nce act ith and ate ver red lic dge ? lly , nts hat aim to ain a oad rum of man ion ave sed ely on her ted nce ses or ted dge sen - ons .
our iew ces oth , and hts
it is far too oon to say hat a ure nal ory of ive ing and ing ill ook ike .
the eal - rld ems hat ren and lts ace are ill ell ond the ope of our els , and ues of mic and cal ity ill ave to be sed ( see box 123 , and ial ere ext ? in his sue ) .
yet as ure ork on ion lds , one dea uld lay a ial ole in any ory unt : tic nce ver ies of gly act , bly red ons of the rld .
we ank the ent and ast ers of the nal ive nce oup at mit for ble ons of the ork bed ere .
we owe lar bts to fei xu , ick fto , and abh ogi , who ave ted ely on the cts bed ere .
we dge ort rom ntt ion ces ies , shi ric rch abs , the nal nce ion , the mes s .
ell ion sal ing ive , the aul e .
ton eer ent air ( j . b . t . ) , the ord ate ips ( t . l . g . ) , and the iam sen ert ial ate hip ( c . k . ) .
ary ata ted ith his cle can be und at doi : 123 / j . ics . 123 . 123
