in any ons man ior tes hat of a ian eal ver , ing hat , at ome vel , cog - ion can be bed as ian nce .
ver , a ber of ngs ave ted an ing tch een man ior and hat ted by ian fer - nce : ple ten ear to ake nts sed on a few les rom a ity ion , her han the ull dis - ion .
ugh ple - sed ons are a com - mon ion of ian nce , the ery ted ber of les sed by ans ems to be ent to ate the red ity ons .
ere we der his ncy in the der ork of tis - cal ion ory , and ask : if ple ere ing eci - ons sed on les , but les ere tly , how any les uld ple use ? we nd hat der ble as - ons out how ong it kes to uce a ple , lly mal ons sed on few les are lly op - mal .
ese lts ile a rge ody of ork ing ing , or ity - ing , ior ith the oth - sis hat man ion is ell bed as ian in - nce , and est ing ure ons for ies of rds : nal ng; ian ls; pro - ess ls; ing
oss a ide nge of sks , ple eem to act in a man - ner ent ith mal ian els ( in ion : ill & rds , 23; tor ion : ney , mer - ser , & ndy , 23; age : ter & ing , 23; ion ing : zie , 23; sal nts : rif - ths & aum , 23; and ept ing : man , aum , man , & ths , 123 ) .
ver , ite his ity een ian eal ers and man ers , two ial ems ain sed oss ese ins .
rst , man ior ten ars to be mal on age , but not hin ual ple or in - ual als : hat are ple ing on ual ils to uce mal ior in the ong - run age ? sec - ond , ian nce is ght - ard hen ing all ory sks , but ble for rge - ale rob - ems ike ose hat ple ace in the eal rld : how can ple be ing out lly ble ian lcu - ons in eal - rld sks ? ere we ill gue hat oth of ese ems can be ved by ing the hms hat ple may be ing to ate ian nce .
the rst lem is ted by an ing rva - ion rom man et al .
( 123 ) out nce in cat - ion sks in ich ple see ive and ive ars of a ory and are hen ked to ize any
hua b .
aum ( mit . edu ) ain and ive nce , 123 sar st
dge , ma 123 usa
ned les to new est ems .
ter ure to ral cat - ory ars ple ify new est ems tly ith lly ian nce , on age .
his age be - ior sts hat ple der any ble ica - ion les , ate eir efs out ach one , and hen las - ify new ems by ing the ion ver all the pos - ble les .
ver , his tly ian ior is nly ent in the age oss any ers .
ach ual ies all est ems in a ner sis - ent ith nly one or a few es; ich les are red ies rom ver to ver ing to the pri - ate ior ies ( man et al . , 123 ) .
hus , it ems hat an ual ver cts sed on ust one or a few les led rom the ior ion , and the lly ian ior nly ges hen ing any als , ach ith ent led les .
his ing ior is not ted to ept - ing sks .
in any her igh - vel ive sks , als rns of nse and mes ven ses on ndi - ual als ear to ect ust a all ber of les rom the ior ive ion .
hen ing how ong a ake ill ake ven hat it has een in the ven for 123 tes ( ths & aum , 123 ) , the oss - ect nce of ses is ent ith als ing sed on nly two ior ons of ake ing mes ( zer , ler , & aei , 123 ) .
hen ing tes of ric ies in the rld , ple ses rom one ual ave ent ror , ike les rom a oba - ity ion ( vul & ler , 123 ) .
in all of ese ses ( and rs; e . g . , xu & aum , 23; son , 23; orn & ths , 123 ) , ple eem to ple ead of ing the lly ian wer .
ics of the ian ach ( e . g . , zer et al . , 123 ) ave ted hat ugh any les may ely ate ian nce , ior sed on nly a few les is lly ent ith the oth - sis hat man ion is ian .
ers ght the ond lem and gue hat ion not be ian nce use act ian ons are uta - lly ble ( e . g . , zer , 123 ) .
in his per we ill gue hat ing sed on a few sam - les can be ily led ith mal ian fer - nce and may be the hod by ich ple ate ise ble ian ons .
we gue hat ( a ) ing ior can be ood in rms of ble
ing - sed hes to ing ble in - nce ems in ian ics and ai; ( b ) ery few les rom the ian ior are ten ent to ain ate ons hat are ost as ood as pre - ons ted ing the ull or; and ( c ) on ser - ive ons out how uch ime it ght ost to pro - uce a ple rom the ior , ing ons sed on ery few les ( ven ust one ) , can lly be the lob - lly mal egy .
ian nce ith les
ian ity ory bes a ive hod to ine ion and ake ces out the rld .
ver , the aim hat man ion can be bed as ian nce oes not ply hat ple are ing act ian nce .
act ian nce nts to lly ing sis ces ery ime efs are ted ith new ata .
in any rge - ale ion , his is lly ble , so nce ust be ate .
his is the ase in ian ial nce and ics , and his ust ply ven ore in man ion , ere the eal - rld ces are tly ore lex and ses are ime - ive .
the eed for ing ian in - nce ves two ant ons .
for ial lli - nce and ics : hat nds of ion ods ork est to ate ian nce ? for ive nce and ogy : hat nds of ion eth - ods oes the man ind use ?
in the ion of nal sis , or rrs uta - nal ach ( arr , 123 ) , a ble egy to an - ing the cal ion ins ith ood ers to the ing ion .
hus , we ill ore the hy - sis hat the man ind tes ian fer - nce ith ome ion of the mic ies hat ave ven est in ai and ics , on the nds of uta - nal ncy and acy .
in ial nce and ics , one of the ost com - mon ods for ing ian nce is ith nce by ing is a ure to ate a ity ion by eat - dly ing a ler tic ess ich ces ves rom a sis ace ing to eir oba - ity der the ion in ion .
the ult of any one uch ion is a ple .
ith tly any les , ese ons sed on ese ons ach the act ons ing the cal ity tri - ons 123
ing ods are lly sed use hey are ble to a rge nge of nal
the nte rlo rem tes hat the ion ver a
ity ion can be ted rom les :
ep ( s ) ( f ( s ) ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
f ( si ) , hen si p ( s ) .
els and are ore ust to ing ity han her ate ods .
any ely ble ing hms ist and ome cic nes ave een sed to unt for cts of man ior ( ths , ini , orn , & rro , 23; evy , ali , & ths , 23; own & ers , 123 ) .
for our ses , we eed nly ume hat a per - son has the ity to raw les rom the sis ace ing to the ior ity ion .
hus , it is ble to ose hat ple can ate ian nce via a ing thm , and nce hat ans ake ons by ing is not in ict ith the oth - sis hat the ons hey are ing out are ian .
ver , ent ork sts hat ple ase eir eci - ons on ery few les ( vul & ler , 23; man et al . , 23; zer et al . , 123 ) so few hat any ims of nce to the eal ity ion do not old .
hms ing nly two les ( zer et al . , 123 ) ill ave ies ite ent rom ull ian ion .
his ves us ith the ion : how bad are ons sed on few les ?
ian and ple - sed nts
to ess the ity of ons sed on few les , we ill der nce of mal ( lly ian ) and ple - sed nts in the mon rio of oos - ing een two ves .
any tal sks in ogy are a ant of his lem : ven ing ned , ake a two - ive ced - ice ( afc ) re - nse .
ver , eal - rld sks ten pse nto uch ple afc ons , for nce : we ust ide her to ive to the ort via the dge or the nel , end - ing on ich ute is ely to ave ast afc .
ugh his ion ill be med by ior ces hat pro - ced ate ive ons of ble afc ow , at one lar ion ese lex ons pse nto a ion out a ary ble and eci - ion : uld we urn eft or ght ?
cal ion ory ( ger , 123 ) bes how ion and efs out the rld and ble rds uld be ned to ene a ity ion ver ble ffs for ach ble ion ( ney , 23; ing , 23; lle & off , 123 ) .
an ent ing to ize ffs ver any ons uld use ese ive les to ine the ted off of ach ac - ion , and ose the ion ith the est ted 123
hus , the ard for ons in cal ion ory is to ose the ion ( a ) hat ill ize ted til - ity der the ior ive ion ver ble rld tes ( s ) ven ior ata ( d ) , ing hat ion and ate ely ine the ity ned :
a = max
3an ent ght ave her als , e . g . , ing the ini - mum ble off ( i . e . , eme isk ion ) ; ver , we ill not der ons in ich uch als are ely .
if the rld ate is tly ied , afc ons map nto a ion out ich of two ons ( 123 and 123 ) ill ave her ted ity for nce : ill we end ess ime in afc ing the dge or the nel ? ere - ore , ing ong two ves nts to ing the ome of a lli ial : ill 123 or 123 ave ter ity ? hus , p ( a = 123 ) p and p ( a = 123 ) ( 123 p ) , and we can ply ize ese ons in rms of the ior ive ity p .
for ity , we ill der ing the her - ity ion a ect ice , and ing the wer - ity ion an ect ice .
the lly ian ent ill ose the ore ely rna - ive , and ill be ect p ion of the ime ( we ume p is een 123 and 123 , ven try ) .
a ple - sed ent uld ple ble rld tes , and ake ons sed on ose led rld tes ( sn ) :
a = max
so in the ase of ing ons een two rna - ves one of ich may be ect , the ple - sed ent uld ose the ion ing to the ost ent ome in the set of led rld tes .
hus , a ple - sed ent ing k les ill ose a lar out - ome ith ity q :
q = 123 cdf (
ere cdf is the ial ive ity ion and k / 123 is ded own to the est ger .
his ple - sed ent ill be ght ith ity qp+ ( 23q ) ( 123 p ) .
ood ons rom few les
ure 123 : sed ror ate for the ple - sed ent ver the mal ent as a ion of the lli ial ity and the ber of les awn for a ion ( ons sed on 123 les not own ) .
so , how uch rse ill uch afc ons be if hey are sed on a few les her han the lly ian
nce ? lli ted hat ore han 123 , 123 sam - les are red for ral nty out the rue oba - ity of a two - ive 123 ( ler , 123 ) .
ugh lis ons ere sed on ent ons han ose ich are now ted ( ler , 123 ) , it is un - ble hat nce sed on a all ber of les ers rom the lly ian ion and ill ain ter ors , but how bad are the ons sed on his
in ure 123 we lot the nce in ror tes een the ple - sed and mal nts as a ion of the un - ing ity ( p ) and ber of les ( k ) .
hen p is ear 123 , ere is no use in ing any les ( nce a tly med ion ill be as ely to be ect as a dom ess ) .
hen p is 123 ( or ose ) , ere is uch to be ned rom a gle ple nce hat one ple ill ndi - ate the ( rly - lly ect ) er; ver , ent les are of tle use , nce the rst one ill ide all the ain ere is to be had .
ost of the net of rge ers of les urs in rim ity ues ( und 123 and wer ) .
ure 123 : ( a ) the mum and ted ase in ror for the ple - sed ent red to the mal ent as a ion of ber of les ( see ext ) .
( b ) ted and mum ain in acy rom an nal ple as a ion of the ber of les ady ned .
nce the ple - sed ent oes not now hat the rue ity p may be for a lar ion we can der the ios uch an ent uld ect : the age sce - rio ( ion ver p ) and the rst ase rio ( axi - ion of the oss ver p ) .
ese are yed in ure 23a ing a orm ity ion ver p .
the evi - ion rom mal nce ses to ble lev - els ith ery few les , ing hat the ple - sed ent eed not ave ore han a few les to ate eal nce .
we can go her to ess ust how uch is ned ( in rms of sed ror ate ) rom an nal ple ( ure 23b ) .
ain , the ast ity of acy is ned ith the rst ple , and ent les do ery tle to ove nce .
hus , ven ugh few les ill not ide a ery ac - ate ate of p ely not ent to ave ral
lli red ral nty to be at ast 123 : 123 dds
hat the rue tio ill be hin 123
123 of the red tio .
ure 123 : ted ity per ion , the ber of ons hat can be ade per nit ime , and the ted ate of urn ( ity per nit ime ) as a ion of the lli ity and the ber of les ( ith an ple ion / ple ost tio of 123 ) .
nty hey are ent to ose an ion : we do not eed ral nty to act lly .
how any les for a ion ?
ets ake sly the sis hat ple ake fer - ces sed on les .
if his is the ase , how any sam - les uld ple use ore ing a ion ? for in - nce , how any ble nts of afc oss the ity uld we der ore ing her to urn eft for the nel or ght for the dge ? ing one uch ity res ted ght and ort it ems ous hat we uld not use at the ion for sev - ral urs and ate all the ies .
it lso ems ely hat we dnt ust urn eft or ght at dom ith - out any ion .
so , how any les uld we ake : how ard uld we ink ?
ing an mal wer to his eta - ive lem res hat we ify how uch a ple may ost ? to be ive ( and for the ake of ity ) , we ill ume hat a ple can nly ost ime it kes ome unt of ime to ure up an ate ome , pre - ict its lue , and ate a ion ble .
hus , if a ven ple is ree ( sts 123 ime ) , hen we uld ake ely any les , and ake the est de - ion ble ery ime .
if a ple sts 123 nit of ime , and the ion ime ( the ime hat it uld ake us to act nce we ave sen to do so ) is lso 123 nit of ime , hen we uld ake ero les we uld ess mly .
to ake his iar ult ive , ets be ete : if we ave 123 sec - nds , and the ion ime is xed to be 123 ond , hen we can ake 123 dom ons , ich ill be ght 23% of the ime , hus ing us an ted ard of 123
if ing a gle ple to ove our ion ill ost an nal ond per ion , hen if we ake one ple per ion , ach ion ill ake 123 nds , and we uld ake at ost 123 of hem .
it is ble for the ted ard rom his egy to be ter han ing mly , nce ven if 23% of the ons are ect , nly 123 ill be ned .
ver , nce 23% acy sed on one ple is ex - ely ely ( his uld nly ise in a ely ter -
tic ion ask ) , lly ess ard uld be ted .
hus , if ing a ple kes as ong as the ion , and we do not get hed for an ect wer , we uld raw ero les per ion and ake as any dom ons as we can .
ore lly , we can ram - ize how uch a ple sts as the tio een the ime red to ake an ion and the ime red to ob - ain one ple ( ion / ple tio ) ely , a ure of how any les it uld ake to ble the ime ent on a ion .
the ted acy for a ple - sed ent ( ous ion ) ves us the ted ity per ion as a unc - ion of k ( the ber of les ) and p ( the lli ial ty; ure 23a ) , and the ity ion .
we der two ity ons for the afc ase : no ent cor - ect : ain 23; ect ose 123 ) and ric ect : ain 23; ect : ose 123
ven one lar ion / ple ime tio , we can ute the ber of ons ade per nit ime ( ure 23b ) .
ing ese two ons her lds the ted ity per nit ime ( ure 23c ) .
nce p is own to the ent , an eal k ust be cho - sen by ing the ion ver p .
his ion ( ing a orm ion ver p ) for any ent ion / ple ime ios is yed in ure 123
it is ear hat as les ome per , one is est sed to ake ore of hem ing to the mit of ely any sam - les hen the les are ree ( the ion / ple ime tio
in ure 123 we lot the mal ber of les as a ion of the ion / ple ime tio .
bly , for ios ess han 123 , one is est sed to ake ons sed on nly one ple if the ity ion is met - ric .
ver , ith no ent for ect ers , the ion / ple ime tio ust be 123 or ter ore ing any les ( ing a ess ats at all ted , her han lly dom ) mes a ent rse of ion .
hus , un - der ome ons out how uch it sts to ink , mak - ing ses sed on ery few les ( e . g . , one ) is the est rse of ion : ing any lly mal ons kly is the lly mal egy .
ure 123 : ted ity per ion , ber of ons per nit ime , and ted ity per nit ime ( ate of urn ) as a ion of the ber of les and ion / ple ost ios .
ion / ple ost ios are lly ced een 123 ( red ) and 123 ( low ) .
in the ast aph the lid les ate the mal ber of les at hat ion / ple ost tio .
( the ity ion sed for his ure ned no ent for an ect ice and 123 for a ect ice . )
ion .
ver , we wed hat ven ble as - ons out the ime it kes to uce an act ple , a icy of ing ons sed on ery few les ( ven ust one ) is lly mal , ing ong - run ity .
in his per we red ple - sed ons out ons of les hat had not een sly ved ons ted ugh ian nce ver la - ent les and res in the rld .
ver , a rge ior ure on ity ing ( ein , 23; kan , 123 ) has ied a ery lar non in a in ity ing , cts ict the ome of a ial sed on the ive ies ith ich hat ome has een ved in the ast .
hus , sub - cts ave ect nce of the ity hat ver a or ver b uld be led , but hey do not eem to ze; ead , hey ity tch and ose ers ith a ncy nal to the ity of ard .
on our unt , his ral ity ing ior nts to ing ons sed on one ple , ile ons sed on ore les uld ond to uce ice de - ons ith an ent ter han 123 ( uce , 123 ) .
ity ing to sly ved ies is lly ted as ing ior nts rom mem - ory .
his ion is ent ith ent ork sug - ing hat ple ake ons sed on les rom ory .
art , ter , and own ( 123 ) ted hat a icy of ing ons ugh ary nce udg - nts ong ves led rom ory can ac - unt for an ent of man ent and ion - ing ors .
rly , der , mer , and tre ( 123 ) est hat tes rom led ons in lti - nal nce ace can unt for ons of ent ive ity nts .
a ing ion for ure rch uld be to ate els ing hat les are awn rom ive ses uch as ory , to els ike ose we ave bed in our per , in ich les are awn rom ity ons ing
ure 123 : the mal ber of les as a ion of the ac - ion / ple ime - ost tio for ach of two ity ons ( sym - ric ect : 123 , ect : - 23; and no ent for ect ers ect : 123 , ect : 123 ) .
we gan ith the ion hat , on age , ple end to act tly ith eal ian nce , ing ion to lly ild els of the ld; ver , lly , hey ear to be lly mal , ing sed on a ery ted ber of les .
his has een sed to gue hat ple are not lly ian ( zer et ead , we ave ued hat ple - sed ap - ons are a ful hod for ing ap - ate ian nce .
ugh ith few les , ple - sed ces ill ate rom act ian nce , we wed hat for two - ive ced - ice sks , a ion sed on a ery all set of les is rly as ood as an mal ion sed on a ull ity
eal ces out the rld .
how uch ght a ple ost ? a ant ure of ple ost in ple - ial nts is the tio een the ime it kes to ake an ion and go on to the ext ial and the ime red to raw a ple to orm a ion out hat ion .
ios ear 123 eem ite ble : ost tal als ast a few nds , and it can bly ost a few red nds to der a sis .
of rse , his is ion .
ver , in ral , it ems to us hat in ost tal sks , the ets ned rom a ter ion are ely all red to the sts of ing a ery ong ime ing .
so , if ing nts to ing ble ves ore ing a ion , it uld not be ing hat ple rly eem to use so
we uld ize hat we are not ing hat all hu - man ons and ons are sed on ery few les .
the nce for ing - sed ons ses hen peo - ple ake a ion or a ice sed on hat hey ink is ely to be rue ( ich ple is in the ept ? how ong ill his ent ast ? how any rts are ere in the us ? ) .
in her ons ple ear to ate ver the ior , or to ake any ore les , uch as hen peo - ple ake ded ive nts ( how lar is a to b ? how ely is it hat x has rty p ven hat y oes ? how ely do you ink hat f ses g ? ) .
it is ing to der why ere may be a nce een ese rts
der ble two - ive ice ios , ple are est sed to ake ons sed on few les ( fu - ure ork ill end his to n - afc and ous ice ons ) .
his res a ery ble ion : hen we are ing her to urn eft or ght at an ion , we uld not ate ery ble map of the rld .
we do not eed ral nty out the ity hat eft or ght ill ead to the est ute to our ion we ust eed to ake a ion .
we ust tly igh the ene - ts of ing our ion by ing for a ger iod of ime nst the ost of ing ore ime and ort de - ing .
ion sts hat we do his in the eal rld : we ink der ore ing her to go rth or uth on an ate ( ere a ong ion can ead to a our of any les ) , han hen we are ing for a use ( ere the ong ion ill ave mal ost ) .
cal evi - nce rms his : hen the kes are igh , ple art ing ead of ity ing ( nks , tun - ney , & thy , 123 ) .
ess , it ems hat in sim - ple ces , ing is ely the ent rse of ion for the ost art , ing ick , lly mal , ons is the lly mal icy : one and one .
nts .
his ork was ted by onr uri ( jbt , pi : ier ) ; ell age , seg , nsf ion ant ( ev ) .
