we present a framework for the rational analysis of elemental causal inductionlearning about the existence of a relationship between a single cause and eectbased upon causal graphical models .
this framework makes precise the distinction between causal structure and causal strength : the dierence between asking whether a causal relationship exists and ask - ing how strong that causal relationship might be .
we show that two leading rational models of elemental causal induction , dp and causal power , both estimate causal strength , and we introduce a new rational model , causal support , that assesses causal structure .
causal support predicts several key phenomena of causal induction that cannot be accounted for by other rational models , which we explore through a series of experiments .
these phenomena include the complex interaction between dp and the base - rate probability of the eect in the absence of the cause , sample size eects , inferences from incomplete contingency tables , and causal
q we thank russ burnett , david lagnado , tania lombrozo , brad love , doug medin , kevin murphy , david shanks , steven sloman , and sean stromsten for helpful comments on previous drafts of this paper , and liz bara , onny chatterjee , danny oppenheimer , and davie yoon for their assistance in data collection .
klaus melcher and david shanks generously provided their data for our analyses .
initial results from experiment 123 were presented at the neural information processing systems conference , december 123
tlg was supported by a hackett studentship and a stanford graduate fellowship .
jbt was supported by grants from ntt communication science laboratories , mitsubishi electric research laboratories , and the paul e .
newton chair .
* corresponding author .
present address : department of cognitive and linguistic sciences , brown
university , box 123 , providence ri 123 , usa .
e - mail address : tom_griths@brown . edu ( t . l .
griths ) .
123 - 123 / $ - see front matter 123 elsevier inc .
all rights reserved .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
learning from rates .
causal support also provides a better account of a number of existing datasets than either dp or causal power .
123 elsevier inc .
all rights reserved .
keywords : causality; causal induction; computational modeling; rational analysis; bayesian models
the contagion spread rapidly and before its progress could be arrested , sixteen persons were aected of which two died .
of these sixteen , eight were under my care .
on this occasion i used for the rst time the ausion of cold water , in the manner described by dr .
wright .
it was rst tried in two cases .
the eects corresponded exactly with those mentioned by him to have occurred in his own case and thus encouraged the remedy was employed in ve other cases .
it was repeated daily , and of these seven patients , the whole recovered .
( james currie , 123 / 123 , p
statistical methods for evaluating the relationships between variables were only developed at the end of the 123th century , more than 123 years after the birth of modern science .
the foundations of physics , chemistry , biology , and medicine were all laid be - fore formal methods for analyzing correlations or contingency tables existed .
even dif - cult statistical problems like evaluating medical treatments were addressed by early scientists , as the epigraph illustrates .
its author , dr .
james currie , was an 123th century ships surgeon who later went into practice in liverpool .
after having heard a dr .
wil - liam wright give an account of the ecacy of being doused with cold water in treating an extended fever , currie conducted his own experiment , with results described above .
he was suciently encouraged that he went on to use the treatment with hundreds of other patients , publishing a detailed treatise on the matter ( currie , 123 / 123 ) .
wash - ing the skin of the patient is still used to ease fevers , although modern medicine cautions against using water cold enough to induce shivering .
while the development of statistical methods for designing and analyzing exper - iments has greatly streamlined scientic argument , science was possible before statis - tics : in many cases , the causal relationships between variables that are critical to understanding our world could be discovered without any need to perform explicit calculations .
science was possible because people have a capacity for causal induc - tion , inferring causal structure from data .
this capacity is suciently accurate as to have resulted in genuine scientic discoveries , and provides the basis for the con - struction of the intuitive theories that express our knowledge about the world .
cur - ries assessment of the water treatment is directly analogous to the kinds of causal inferences we perform every day , such as evaluating whether taking vitamins pre - vents us from getting sick , or whether drinking coee increases our productivity .
the most basic problem of causal induction is learning that a relationship exists between a single cause and eect .
this problem of elemental causal induction has been
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
the subject of most previous studies of human causal judgment .
this simplest case is suciently constrained to allow rigorous testing of mathematical models against peoples judgments of causeeect relations .
recent accounts of elemental causal induction have emphasized the rational basis of human learning , presenting formal analyses of how an agent should learn about causal relationships ( e . g . , anderson , 123; cheng , 123; lo pez , cobos , cano , & shanks , 123 ) .
this strategy has resulted in several distinct mathematical models of causal judgment , none of which explains all of the phenomena of causal induction .
consequently , there is an ongoing debate about which model gives a better account of human judgments ( e . g . , cheng , 123; lober & shanks , 123 ) .
in this paper , we present a framework for analyzing the computational problem of elemental causal induction , based on causal graphical models .
causal graphical models are a set of tools for learning and reasoning about causal relationships that has been developed by computer scientists , statisticians , and philosophers ( e . g .
pearl , 123; spir - tes , glymour , & schienes , 123 ) .
our framework claries the assumptions made by previous rational models , such as dp ( allan , 123; jenkins & ward , 123; lo pez et al . , 123 ) and causal power ( cheng , 123 ) , and results in a fundamentally dierent model of human judgments , which we call causal support .
while previous models view human judgments as reecting the strength of a causal relationship , causal support addresses the structural question of whether or not a causal relationship exists .
causal graphical models have recently become the focus of a great deal of interest among cognitive scientists , with several studies examining the extent to which human causal reasoning corresponds to the qualitative assumptions of this approach ( danks & mckenzie , submitted; gopnik et al . , 123; glymour , 123 , 123; lagnado & slo - man , 123; waldmann & martignon , 123 ) .
our work extends these results by show - ing that causal graphical models can be used to make quantitative predictions about human behavior ( e . g . , steyvers , tenenbaum , wagenmakers , & blum , 123; tenen - baum & griths , 123 , 123 ) .
the framework we present here uses causal graphical models to explicate the roles of structure and strength in the problem of causal induction , and in dening causal support , our model of human judgments .
causal support predicts several phenomena that are problematic for other ra - tional models .
our presentation will be organized around these phenomena .
the rst phenomenon we will consider is the interaction between covariation , measured by dp , and the base - rate probability of the eect in the absence of the cause in deter - mining human judgments .
this interaction manifests in two curious phenomena , the frequency illusiona decrease in causal judgments as the base - rate decreases when dp = 123 ( allan & jenkins , 123; buehner , cheng , & cliord , 123; shanks , lo - pez , darby , & dickinson , 123 ) and non - monotonic eects of changes in base - rate at other values of dp ( lober & shanks , 123 ) .
we will also discuss eects of sample size ( white , 123 , 123c , 123c ) , inferences from incomplete contingency tables , and causal induction from rates ( c . f .
anderson & sheu , 123; wasserman , 123 ) .
no other rational model of can explain all of these phenomena , or t as wide a range of datasets as causal support .
the plan of the paper is as follows .
first we outline the problem of elemental causal induction in more detail , describing the experimental paradigms that are
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
contingency table representation used in elemental causal induction
cause present ( c+ ) cause absent ( c
eect present ( e+ )
eect absent ( e
the focus of our investigation , the two leading rational models , dp and causal power , and some of the data that has been gathered in support of them .
then , we provide a brief summary of causal graphical models , present our framework for analyzing the problem of elemental causal induction , and use this to derive causal support .
the body of the paper discusses the phenomena predicted by causal support but not by other models , explaining the statistical origins of these predictions .
we close by considering the circumstances under which we expect causal support to be most con - sistent with human judgments , its relationship with ideas such as reliability ( bueh - ner & cheng , 123; perales & shanks , 123 ) , and how this account of elemental causal induction can be extended to shed light on other aspects of causal learning .
elemental causal induction
much psychological research on causal induction has focused upon the problem of learning a single causal relation : given a candidate cause , c , and a candidate eect , e , people are asked to assess the relationship between c and e . 123 most studies present information corresponding to the entries in a 123 123 contingency table , as in table 123
people are given information about the frequency with which the eect occurs in the presence and absence of the cause , represented by the numbers n ( e+ , c+ ) , n ( e and so forth .
in a standard example , c might be injecting a chemical into a mouse , and e the expression of a particular gene .
for this case , n ( e+ , c+ ) would be the num - ) would be the number of ber of injected mice expressing the gene , while n ( e uninjected mice not expressing the gene .
this contingency information is usually presented to participants in one of three modes .
early experiments on causal induction would either explicitly provide partic - ipants with the numbers contained in the contingency table ( e . g . , jenkins & ward , 123 ) , which we will refer to as a summary format , or present individual cases one by one , with the appropriate frequencies ( e . g . , ward & jenkins , 123 ) , which we will refer to as an online format .
some more recent experiments use a mode of presentation between these two extremes , showing a list of all individual cases simultaneously ( e . g . , buehner et al . , 123; white , 123c ) , which we will refer to as a list format .
123 we will represent variables such as c , e with capital letters , and their instantiations with lowercase indicating that the cause or eect
letters , with c+ , e+ indicating that the cause or eect is present , and c
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
experiments also dier in the questions that are asked of the participants .
participants can be asked to rate the strength of the causal relationship , the probability of a causal relationship , or their condence that a causal relation - ship exists .
understanding the eects of question wording is an ongoing task ( e . g . , white , 123b ) , but one variable that has been shown to have a strong eect is asking counterfactual questions , such as what is the probability that a mouse not expressing the gene before being injected will express it after being injected with the et al . , 123; collins & shanks ,
causal induction tasks also vary in their treatment of the valence of the potential cause , and the nature of the rating scale used for responses .
causes can be either generative , increasing the probability of an outcome ( as in our mouse gene exam - ple ) , or preventive , reducing its probability ( as in the case of dr .
curries cold water treatment ) .
some experiments use exclusively generative or exclusively preven - tive causes and ask for judgments on a nonnegative scale ( e . g . , 123 ) , while others mix generative and preventive causes and ask for judgments on a scale that has both positive and negative ends ( e . g . , 123 to 123 ) .
given the many ways in which experiments on causal judgment can dier , it is important to identify the scope of the present analysis .
we will discuss exper - iments that use all three modes of presentation , as each mode captures an aspect induction that is important for the development of rational models : the summary format removes memory demands and allows a deliberative infer - ence , the online format taps intuitions about causality that are engaged by direct interaction with data , and the list format falls between these extremes .
we will focus on experiments that require participants to make judgments about poten - tial causes of a single kind , generative or predictive .
most of the critical datasets in the current debate about rational models of causal induction are of this form ( e . g . , buehner & cheng , 123; lober & shanks , 123 ) .
in section 123 , we will consider how our framework can be extended to shed light on other issues in causal induction , including learning about multiple potential causes , the dynam - ics of causal judgments in online tasks , and combining generative and preventive
rational models of elemental causal induction
in the spirit of marrs ( 123 ) computational level and andersons ( 123 ) ra - tional analysis , recent theories have tried to establish the task of causal induction as a computational problem and use the optimal solution to that problem to ex - plain human behavior .
we will describe two leading rational models of causal induction which are at the center of a debate about modeling causal judgments : dp and causal power .
dp and associative strength
one common approach to modeling judgments about causal relationships is to
combine the frequencies from a contingency table in the form
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
ne; c ne; c
ne; c ne; c pejc pejc;
where p ( e+|c+ ) is the empirical conditional probability of the eect given the pres - ence of the cause , estimated from the contingency table counts n ( ) .
dp thus reects the change in the probability of the eect occuring as a consequence of the occurence of the cause .
this measure was rst suggested by jenkins and ward ( 123 ) , subse - quently explored by allan ( allan , 123 , 123; allan & jenkins , 123 ) , and has ap - peared in various forms in both psychology and philosophy ( cheng & holyoak , 123; cheng & novick , 123 , 123; melz , cheng , holyoak , & waldmann , 123; salmon , 123 ) .
one argument for the appropriateness of dp as a normative model uses the fact that it is the asymptotic value of the weight given to the cause c when the causal induction task is modeled with a linear associator trained using the resc - orlawagner ( rescorla & wagner , 123 ) learning rule ( cheng , 123; cheng & holy - oak , 123; chapman & robbins , 123; danks , 123; wasserman , elek , chatlosh , &
the power pc theory and causal power
cheng ( 123 ) rejected dp as a measure of causal strength because it is a mea - sure of covariation , not causality .
according to cheng ( 123 ) and novick and cheng ( 123 ) , human judgments reect a set of assumptions about causality that dier from those of purely covariational measures such as dp and conventional statistics .
chengs ( 123 ) power pc theory attempts to make these assumptions explicit , providing an axiomatic characterization of causality and proposing that human causal judgments correspond to causal power , the probability that c produces e in the absence of all other causes .
causal power for a generative cause can be estimated from contingency data , with cheng ( 123 ) giving the
123 pejc .
causal power takes dp as a component , but predicts that dp will have a greater ef - ) is large .
causal power can also be evaluated for preventive causes , fect when p ( e+|c following from a similar set of assumptions about the nature of such causes .
the causal power for a preventive cause is
for preventive causes , the eect of p ( e+|c+ ) on causal power is reversed , with dp having a greater inuence when p ( e+|c+ ) is small .
the measure of causal power in eq .
( 123 ) can be derived from a counterfactual treatment of sucient cause ( pearl , 123 ) .
causal power corresponds to the probability that , for a case in which c was not present and e did not occur , introduced .
this probability depends upon dp , e would occur
if c was
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
corresponding to the raw increase in occurrences of e , but has to be normalized by the proportion of the cases in which c could actually have inuenced e .
if some of the cases already show the eect , then c had no opportunity to inuence those cases and they should not be taken into account when evaluating the ) in the denominator .
pearl ( 123 ) derives dp from a similar treatment of necessary and sucient cause .
) = 123p ( e+|c
to illustrate the dierence between causal power and dp , consider the problem of establishing whether injecting chemicals into mice results in gene expression .
two groups of 123 mice are used in two experiments evaluating the eect of dier - ent chemicals on dierent genes .
in each experiment , one group is injected with the chemical , and the other group receives no injection .
in the rst experiment , 123 of ) = 123 , and 123 of the injected mice the uninjected mice express the gene , p ( e+|c express it , p ( e+|c+ ) = 123 .
in the second experiment , 123 of the uninjected mice ex - press the gene , p ( e+|c the injected mice express it , p ( e+|c+ ) = 123
in each case dp = 123 , but the second set of results seem to provide more evidence for a relationship between the chemical and gene expression .
in par - ticular , if we imagine that the frequency of gene expression among the uninjected mice would be reproduced exactly in the other group of mice prior to injection , it seems that the rst chemical produces gene expression in only six of the thirty mice who would not have otherwise expressed the gene , while all of the mice not expressing the gene in the second experiment have their fates altered by the injec - tion .
this dierence is reected in causal power , which is 123 in the rst case and 123 in the second .
) = 123 , and all 123 of
the debate over rational models
dp and causal power make dierent predictions about the strength of causal relationships , and several experiments have been conducted with the aim of deter - mining which model gives a better account of human data ( e . g . , buehner & cheng , 123; collins & shanks , submitted; lober & shanks , 123; perales & shanks , 123; shanks , 123; vallee - tourangeau , murphy , drew , & baker , 123 ) .
each model captures some of the trends identied in these experiments , but there are several results that are predicted by only one of the models , as well as phenomena that are predicted by neither .
these negative results are almost equally distributed between the two models , and suggest that there may be some basic factor missing from both .
the problem can be illustrated by considering two sets of experiments : those conducted by buehner and cheng ( 123 ) and lober and
the experiments conducted by buehner and cheng ( 123; buehner et al . , 123 ) explored how judgments of the strength of a causal relationship vary when dp is held constant .
this was done using an experimental design adapted from wasserman et al .
( 123 ) , giving 123 sets of contingencies expressing all possible combinations ) and dp in increments of 123 .
experiments were conducted with both generative causes , for which c potentially increases the frequency of e as in the cases
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
described above , and preventive causes , for which c potentially decreases the fre - quency of e , and with both online and summary formats .
for the moment , we will focus on the online study with generative causes ( buehner & cheng , 123 , experi - ment 123b ) , where a total of 123 trials gave the contingency information .
the results of this experiment showed that at constant values of dp , people made judgments ) .
furthermore , this sensitivity was consis - that were sensitive to the value of p ( e+|c tent with the role of p ( e+|c
) in causal power .
however , as was pointed out by lober and shanks ( 123 ) , the results also proved problematic for the power pc theory .
the design used by buehner and cheng ( 123 ) provides several situations in which sets of contingencies give the same value of caus - al power .
the data are shown in fig .
123 , together with the values of dp and causal power .
dp and causal power gave r scores of . 123 and . 123 , respectively , with scaling
predictions of rational models compared with the performance of human participants from buehner and cheng ( 123 , experiment 123b ) .
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus contingencies , error bars indicate one standard error .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
parameters c = 123 , 123 . 123 as can be seen from the gure , both dp and causal power predict important trends in the data , but since these trends are orthogonal , neither model provides a full account of human performance .
the only sets of con - tingencies for which the two models agree are those where dp is zero .
for these cases , both models predict negligible judgments of the strength of the causal relation - ship .
in contrast to these predictions , people give judgments that seem to decrease ) decreases .
similar eects with dp = 123 have been observed systematically as p ( e+|c in other studies ( e . g . , allan & jenkins , 123; shanks et al . , 123 ) , where the phenom - enon is referred to as the frequency illusion .
in a further test of the two theories , lober and shanks ( 123 ) conducted a series of experiments in which either causal power or dp was held constant while the other varied .
these experiments used both online ( experiments 123 ) and summary ( exper - iments 123 ) formats .
the results showed systematic variation in judgments of the strength of the causal relationship at constant values of causal power , in a fashion consistent with dp .
the results of experiments 123 are shown in fig .
123 , together with the values of dp and causal power .
the models gave r scores of . 123 and . 123 , respectively , with c = 123 , 123 .
while dp gave a good t to these data , the human ) ) of ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / judgments for contingencies with ( p ( e+|c+ ) , p ( e+|c 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) are not consistent with dp : they show a non - monotonic trend , with smaller judgments for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) than for either of the extreme cases .
the quadratic trend over these three sets of contingencies was statistically signicant , but lober and shanks ( 123 ) stated that .
because the eect was non - linear , it probably should not be given undue weight ( p .
for the purposes of lober and shanks , this eect was not important because it provided no basis for discrim - ination between dp and causal power : neither of these theories can predict a non - monotonic change in causal judgments as a function of the base - rate probability
the results of buehner and cheng ( 123 ) and lober and shanks , 123 illustrate that neither dp nor causal power provides a full account of peoples judgments in causal induction tasks .
these are not isolated results : dp and causal power cannot explain several other phenomena of human causal induction .
one of these phenom - ena is the eect of sample size : both dp and causal power are dened using the con - ditional probabilities p ( e|c ) , and are thus insensitive to the number of observations expressing those probabilities .
however , human judgments change as the number of observations contributing to a contingency table varies ( white , 123 , 123c , 123c ) .
another is inferences from incomplete data : people can assess causal rela - tionships in circumstances where there is not enough information to compute the
123 in each case where we have t a computational model to empirical data , we have used a scaling transformation to account for the possibility of non - linearities in the rating scale used by participants .
this is not typical in the literature , but we feel it is necessary to separate the quantitative predictions from a dependency on the linearity of the judgment scalean issue that arises in any numerical judgment task .
we use the transformation y = sign ( x ) abs ( x ) c , where y are the transformed predictions , x the raw predictions , and c a scaling parameter selected to maximize the linear correlation between the transformed predictions and the data .
this power law transformation accommodates a range of non - linearities .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
predictions of rational models compared with the performance of participants from lober and shanks ( 123 , experiments 123 ) .
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus contingencies .
conditional probabilities of the eect in the presence and the absence of the cause .
in the early stages of both everyday and scientic inferences , we might be presented with an incomplete contingency table .
neither dp nor causal power can explain the judgments that people make from such data .
finally , people are able to learn about causal relationships from data other than contingencies , such as the rate at which an eect is observed in the presence and absence of a cause ( e . g . , anderson & sheu , 123 ) .
dp and causal power are not dened for rate data , even though it is extremely similar to contingency data .
in the remainder of the paper , we will use a computational framework based on causal graphical models to provide insight into the problems of dp and causal power , and to derive a new model of causal induction .
we will argue that the di - culties faced by dp and causal power arise because people are often sensitive to the structural question of whether or not a causal relationship exists , and both dp and
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
causal power model human judgments purely in terms of the strength of a causal relationship .
our framework makes the distinction between structure and strength precise , and allows us to dene a new model , causal support , which addresses this structural question .
we will show that causal support accurately predicts human judgments in all of the settings mentioned above .
causal graphical models
our framework for analyzing elemental causal induction will use causal graphical models , a formalism for learning and reasoning about causal relationships that is a current topic of research in computer science and statistics ( e . g . , pearl , 123; spirtes et al . , 123 ) and is beginning to be applied in cognitive science ( danks & mckenzie , submitted; gopnik et al . , 123; glymour , 123 , 123; lagnado & sloman , 123; rehder , 123; steyvers et al . , 123; tenenbaum & griths , 123 , 123; waldmann & martignon , 123 ) .
causal graphical models , also known as causal bayesian net - works or causal bayes nets , provide a means of specifying the causal relationships that hold among a set of variables .
our brief summary of causal graphical models will touch on three important issues : causal structure , functional causal relation - ships , and the dierence between learning structure and estimating parameters .
causal structure
a graphical model provides an intuitive representation for the causal structure relating a set of variables .
nodes in the graph represent variables , and directed edges represent causal connections between those variables ( glymour , 123 , 123; pearl , 123; spirtes et al . , 123 ) .
the result is a directed graph , with parent nodes having arrows to their children .
for example , consider the directed graphs denoted graph 123 and graph 123 in fig .
123 , which we will later use in describing our framework for elemental causal induction .
both graphs are dened over three binary variables an eect e , a potential cause c , and a background cause b , capturing the combined
directed graphs involving three variables , b , c , and e , relevant to elemental causal induction .
b represents background variables , c a potential causal variable , and e the eect of interest .
graph 123 , is assumed in computing dp and causal power .
computing causal support involves comparing the structure of graph 123 to that of graph 123 , in which c and e are independent .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
eect of all other causes of e .
each graph represents a hypothesis about the causal relations that could hold among these variables .
in graph 123 , b causes e , but c has no relationship to either b or e .
in graph 123 , both b and c cause e .
functional causal relationships
the graph structure used in a causal graphical model identies the causal relation - ships among variables , but says nothing about the precise nature of these relation - shipsthey could be deterministic or probabilistic , and multiple causes of an eect could act independently or interact strongly .
the functional form of a causal relationship encodes all of this information , and translates a causal structure into a probability distribution over the variables that form its nodes .
any causal graphical model with variables ( x123 , .
, xn ) implies a probability dis - tribution of the form p ( x123 , .
, xn ) = i p ( xi|pa ( xi ) ) , where pa ( xi ) is the set of par - ents of the node associated with xi .
this factorization of the probability distribution follows from the assumption that each variable xi is independent of all of its non - de - scendants in the graph when conditioned upon its causes , pa ( xi ) .
this assumption is called the causal markov condition , and the relationship between statistical depen - dence and causation that it implies forms the basis of many algorithms for learning causal structure ( e . g . , pearl , 123; spirtes et al . , 123 ) .
while causal structure determines the dependencies expressed in a distribution , the actual probability distribution depends upon the choice of the conditional probabilities p ( xi|pa ( xi ) ) .
specifying these probabilities requires choosing a param - eterization for each node , stating how the probability distribution over that vari - able depends upon the values of its parents .
this parameterization determines the functional form of the causal relationship .
sometimes the parameterization is trivialfor example , in graph 123 , we need to specify only p123 ( e|b ) , where the sub - script indicates that this probability is associated with graph 123
this can be done using a single numerical parameter w123 which provides the probability that the eect will be present in the presence of the background cause , p123 ( e+|b+; w123 ) = w123
how - ever , when a node has multiple parents , there are many dierent ways in which the functional relationship between causes and eects could be dened .
for example , in graph 123 we need to account for how the causes b and c interact in producing the eect e .
the conditional probability distribution associated with a node can be any prob - abilistically sound function of its parents , including a deterministic function .
dier - ent assumptions about the kinds of mechanisms in a domain naturally lead to dierent functional forms for this dependency , so there will not be a single function - al form that can be used to characterize all settings in which causal learning takes place .
here , we consider three simple functional forms for the relationship between b , c , and e : noisy - or , noisy - and - not , and linear .
these functional forms char - acterize some of the dierent ways in which causes combine to inuence their eects , and will be used in our analysis of previous accounts of causal induction .
all three parameterizations assume that e is a binary random variableon each trial , e either occurs or does not .
later in the paper , in section 123 , we will introduce a
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
poisson parameterization that can be used when the available data concern the rate at which the eect occurs in an interval .
the noisy - or parameterization ( pearl , 123 ) results from a natural set of assumptions about the relationship between cause and eect .
for graph 123 , these assumptions are that b and c are both generative causes , increasing the probability of the eect; that the probability of e in the presence of just b is w123 , and in the pres - ence of just c is w123; and that , when both b and c are present , they have independent opportunities to produce the eect .
this gives
p 123ejb; c; w123; w123 123 123 w123b123 w123c .
where w123 , w123 are parameters associated with the strength of b , c , respectively , and = 123 for the purpose of arithmetic operations .
this expression b+ = c+ = 123 , b gives w123 for the probability of e in the presence of b alone , and w123 + w123w123w123 for the probability of e in the presence of both b and c .
this parameterization is called a noisy - or because if w123 and w123 are both 123 , eq .
( 123 ) reduces to the logical or function : the eect occurs if and only if b or c are present .
with w123 and w123 in the range ( 123 , 123 ) it generalizes this function to allow probabilistic causal relationships .
an analogous parameterization for preventive causes can be derived from a set of assumptions similar to those made in the noisy - or .
in the case of graph 123 , these assumptions are that b has the opportunity to produce e with probability w123 , and c independently prevents e from occurring with probability w123
the resulting noisy - and - not generalizes the logical statement that e will occur if b occurs and not c , allowing the inuence of these factors to be probabilistic .
the conditional probability can be written as p 123ejb; c; w123; w123 wb
which gives w123 for the probability of e in the presence of just b , and w123 ( 123w123 ) when both b and c are present .
as with the noisy - or , both w123 and w123 are constrained to lie in the range ( 123 , 123 ) .
finally , a linear parameterization of graph 123 assumes that the probability of e occuring is a linear function of b and c .
this corresponds to assuming that the pres - ence of a cause simply increases the probability of an eect by a constant amount , regardless of any other causes that might be present .
there is no distinction between generative and preventive causes .
the result is
p 123ejb; c; w123; w123 w123 b w123 c .
this parameterization requires that we constrain w123 + w123 to lie between 123 and 123 to ensure that eq .
( 123 ) results in a legal probability distribution .
because of this depen - dence between parameters , this parameterization is not normally used for causal graphical models .
a similar set of assumptions can be captured using the more stan - dard logistic parameterization ( e . g . , neal , 123 ) , in which the parameters for dier - ent causes can vary independently from strongly positive ( generative ) to strongly negative ( preventive ) .
we consider the linear parameterization here because , as we show in the next section , it implicitly underlies one of the leading psychological mod - els of causal judgment .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
structure learning and parameter estimation
constructing a causal graphical model from a set of observed data involves two kinds of learning : structure learning and parameter estimation .
structure learning re - fers to identication of the topology of the causal graph , while parameter estimation involves determining the parameters of the functional relationships between causes and eects for a given causal structure .
structure learning is arguably more funda - mental than parameter estimation , since the parameters can only be estimated once the structure is known .
learning the causal structure among many variables is a dif - cult computational problem , as the number of possible structures is a super - expo - nential function of the number of variables .
there are several approaches to parameter estimation in graphical models ( e . g . , heckerman , 123 ) .
the simplest approach is maximum - likelihood estimation .
for a particular graphical structure and parameterization , the likelihood of a set of parameters given data d is the probability of d under the distribution specied by that structure , parameterization , and choice of parameter values .
for example , if d is summarized by contingencies n ( e , c ) , the likelihood for the parameters w123 , w123 in graph 123 is given by
p 123djw123; w123; graph 123
p 123ejc; b; w123; w123ne;c
where the product is taken over all pairs of e+ , e estimate is a choice of values for w123 , w123 that maximizes p123 ( d|w123 , w123 , graph 123 ) .
and c+ , c
a maximum - likelihood
structure learning attempts to identify the causal structure underlying a set of ob - served data .
there are two major approaches to structure learning : constraint - based learning , and bayesian inference .
in constraint - based learning , constraints on possi - ble causal structures are inferred by evaluating the statistical dependencies among variables , and sets of causal structures that satisfy these constraints are logically de - rived from these constraints ( e . g . , pearl , 123; spirtes et al . , 123 ) .
in contrast , the bayesian approach to structure learning evaluates each causal structure in terms of the probability it assigns to a dataset .
by integrating over the values that param - eters could assume , it is possible to compute the probability of a dataset given a graphical structure without committing to a particular choice of parameter values ( e . g . , cooper & herskovits , 123 ) .
this computation provides p ( d|graph i ) , and a posterior probability distribution over graphs , p ( graph i|d ) can be obtained by applying bayes rule :
pgraph ijd / pdjgraph ipgraph i;
where p ( graph i ) is a prior probability distribution over graphs .
often , priors are either uniform ( giving equal probability to all graphs ) , or give lower probability to more complex structures .
bayesian structure learning proceeds by either searching the space of structures to nd that with the highest posterior probabil - ity ( friedman , 123; heckerman , 123 ) , or evaluating particular causal relation - ships by integrating over the posterior distribution over graphs ( friedman &
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
a framework for elemental causal induction
framing the problem of causal induction in terms of causal graphical models re - veals that it has two components : structure learning and parameter estimation .
giv - en an always - present background variable b , a potential cause c , and a potential eect e , together with contingency information about the co - occurrence of c and e , the structure learning component is the assessment of whether or not a causal relationship in fact exists between c and e .
this can be formalized as a decision be - tween the structures graph 123 and graph 123 in fig .
the parameter estimation com - ponent is the assessment of the strength of this relationship : assuming graph 123 is appropriate , and determining the value of the parameter describing the relationship between c and e .
the distinction between causal structure and causal strength is important in sci - entic inference .
when scientists investigate a phenomenon , they are typically inter - ested in two questions : whether an eect exists , and how strong this eect might be .
dierent statistical tools are used for answering these questions .
in the frequentist approach to statistics commonly used in psychological experimentation , statistical hypothesis testing is applied to the former , and measures of eect size to the latter .
statistical signicance is a function of both eect size and sample size .
as a conse - quence , there is no logically necessary relationship between causal structure and apparent causal strength : small eects can be statistically signicant , and large eects in small samples may not be supported by sucient data to guarantee rejection of a
in this section , we will show that the distinction between structure and strength can be used to shed light on rational models of human causal induction .
both dp and causal power address only the parameter estimation component of elemental causal induction , providing measures of the strength of a causal relationship .
we will describe a rational model that addresses the structure learning component , which we term causal support .
causal induction as parameter estimation : dp and causal power
the two rational models at the heart of the current theoretical debate about ele - mental causal induction address the same component of the underlying computa - tional problem in fundamentally similar ways .
both dp and causal power are maximum - likelihood estimates of the causal strength parameter w123 in graph 123 , but under dierent parameterizations ( tenenbaum & griths , 123 ) .
as shown in appendix a , dp corresponds to the linear parameterization ( eq .
( 123 ) ) , whereas causal power for generative causes corresponds to the noisy - or parameterization ( eq .
( 123 ) ) and for preventive causes corresponds to the noisy - and - not parameterization ( eq .
glymour ( 123 ) also showed that causal power corresponds to a direct esti - mate for the strength parameter in a noisy - or .
since they are estimates of the parameters of a xed graphical structure , dp and causal power both measure the strength of a causal relationship , based upon the assumption that the relationship
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
as point estimates of a parameter , dp and causal power share several properties .
firstly , they do not answer the question of whether or not a causal relationship ex - ists .
large values of dp or causal power are likely to be associated with genuine causal relationships , but small values are non - diagnostic .
shanks ( 123a , p .
123 ) notes this , pointing out that while dp for the eect of smoking on lung cancer is small , around 123 , no one would deny that the relationship between smoking and lung cancer is an important one .
this relates to a second property of both dp and causal power : these measures contain no information about uncertainty in the estimates involved .
this uncertainty is crucial to deciding whether a causal rela - tionship actually exists .
even a small eect can provide strong evidence for a causal relationship , provided its value is estimated with high certainty .
the insensitivity to sample size exhibited by dp and causal power is one consequence of not incorporat -
identifying both dp and causal power as maximum - likelihood parameter esti - mates also helps to illustrate how these measures dier : they make dierent assumptions about the functional form of a causal relationship .
the linear relation - ship assumed by dp seems less consistent with the intuitions people express about causality than the noisy - or , an important insight which is embodied in chengs ( 123 ) power pc theory .
chengs ( 123 ) distinction between causal and covari - ational measures turns on this fact : she views the noisy - or parameterization as resulting from the correct set of assumptions about the nature of causality , and it is the use of this parameterization that distinguishes the power pc theory from covariation - based accounts .
we suspect that the appropriate parameterization for the relationship between a cause and its eects will depend upon an individuals beliefs about the causal mechanism by which those eects are brought about .
for some causal mechanisms , other parameterizations may be more appropriate than the noisy - or .
causal induction as structure learning : causal support
in terms of the graphical models in fig .
123 , dp and causal power are both con - cerned with the problem of estimating the parameters of graph 123
however , much of human causal induction seems to be directed at the problem of inferring the qual - itative causal structure responsible for a set of observations .
in the case of elemental causal induction , this problem reduces to deciding whether a set of observations were generated by graph 123 , in which c does not cause e , or graph 123 , in which c causes e .
this binary decision is a result of the deterministic nature of the existence of causal relationshipseither a relationship exists or it does nota property of causality that is not captured by considering only the strength of a causal relationship ( c . f .
gold - varg & johnson - laird , 123 ) .
the structural inference as to whether the data were generated by graph 123 or graph 123 can be formalized as a bayesian decision .
making this decision requires evaluating the evidence the data provide for a causal relationship between c and edetermining the extent to which those data are better accounted for by graph 123 than graph 123
having specied two clear hypotheses about the source of a set
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
of contingency data d , we can then compute the posterior probabilities of graphs 123 and 123 by applying bayes rule .
the posterior probability of graph 123 indicates the ex - tent to which a rational learner should believe in the existence of a causal relation - ship after observing d , but it may be more appropriate to model human judgments using a directly comparative measure , such as the log posterior odds ( c . f .
anderson , 123; shirin & steyvers , 123 ) .
in log odds form , bayes rule is
pgraph 123jd log
pdjgraph 123 log
pgraph 123 ;
where the left - hand side of the equation is the log posterior odds , and the rst and second terms on the right - hand side are the log likelihood ratio and the log prior
bayes rule stipulates how a rational learner should update his or her beliefs given new evidence , with the log posterior odds combining prior beliefs with the implica - tions of the evidence .
the eect of data d on the belief in the existence of a causal relationship is completely determined by the value of the log likelihood ratio .
the log likelihood ratio is thus commonly used as a measure of the evidence that data pro - vide for a hypothesis , and is also known as a bayes factor ( kass & raerty , 123 ) .
we will use this measure to dene causal support , the evidence that data d pro - vide in favor of graph 123 over graph 123
pdjgraph 123 .
to evaluate causal support , it is necessary to compute p ( d|graph 123 ) and p ( d|graph 123 ) .
using a procedure described in appendix a , it is possible to compute these proba - bilities without committing to particular values of the parameters w123 and w123 by inte - grating over all possible values these parameters could assume .
in computing causal support for binary - valued eects , we use the noisy - or parameterization ( eq .
( 123 ) ) for generative causes , and the noisy - and - not param - eterization ( eq .
( 123 ) ) for preventive causes .
this choice of parameterizations seems appropriate for capturing the assumptions behind problems like evaluating the inuence of chemicals on gene expression , where each cause should have an inde - pendent opportunity to inuence the eect .
since causal power is a maximum - like - lihood estimator of w123 under this parameterization , this results in a relationship between causal support and causal power .
speaking loosely , causal support is the bayesian hypothesis test for which causal power is an eect size measure : it evaluates whether causal power is signicantly dierent from zero .
causal support can also be dened for models with dierent functional dependencies and with dif - ferent kinds of variables , a fact that we will exploit in section 123 when we consider causal learning from rates .
as illustrated in fig .
123 , the major determinant of causal support is the extent to which the posterior distribution over w123 places its mass away from zero .
the contin - gency data for the top three cases shown in the gure all result in the same estimate of causal power ( approximately the peak of the posterior distribution on w123 ) , but increasing the number of observations contributing to these contingencies decreases
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
marginal posterior distributions on w123 and values of causal support for six dierent sets of contingencies .
the rst three sets of contingencies result in the same estimates of dp and causal power , but dierent values of causal support .
the change in causal support is due to the increase in sample size , which reduces uncertainty about the value of w123
as it becomes clear that w123 takes on a value other than zero , the evidence for graph 123 increases , indicated by the increase in causal support .
the second set of three contingencies shows that increasing sample size does not always result in increased causal support , with greater certainty that w123 is zero producing a mild decrease in causal support .
the third set of three contingencies illustrates how causal support and causal power can dier .
while the peak of the distribution over w123 , which will be close to the value of causal power , decreases across the three examples , causal support changes in a non - monotonic fashion .
uncertainty about the value of w123
it thus becomes more apparent that w123 has a value greater than zero , and causal support increases .
however , higher certainty does not always result in an increase in causal support , as shown by the next three cases in the gure .
causal power is zero for all three cases , and once again the posterior distri - bution shows higher certainty when the number of observations is large .
greater condence that w123 should be zero now results in a decrease in causal support , although the eect is weaker than in the previous case .
the last three cases illustrate how causal support can dier from causal power .
the contingencies ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) suggest a high value for w123 , with relatively high certainty , and consequently strong causal support; ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) suggest a lower value of w123 , with less certainty , and less causal support; and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) produces an even lower value of w123 , but the higher certainty that this value is greater than zero results in more causal support .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
approximating causal support with v123
the standard frequentist analysis of contingency tables is pearsons ( 123 / 123 ) v123 test for independence , or the related likelihood ratio test g123 ( e . g . , wickens , 123 ) .
the use of the v123 test as a model for human causal judgment was suggested in the psychological literature ( e . g . , allan , 123 ) , but was rejected on the grounds that it neglects the kind of asymmetry that is inherent in causal relationships , provid - ing information solely about the existence of statistical dependency between the two variables ( allan , 123; lopez et al . , 123; shanks , 123b ) .
v123 also makes no commit - ment about the functional form of the relationship between cause and eect : it sim - ply detects any kind of statistical dependency between c and e .
these weak assumptions are important for v123 to be useful as a statistical test across a wide range of settings , but they produce problems for it as a model of human causal judgments .
as a measure of the evidence for a particular dependency structure , v123 is related to causal support .
in appendix a , we show that under certain conditions causal sup - port can be approximated by pearsons v123 test for independence .
this approximation only holds when the contingency table contains a large number of observations , and the potential cause has a weak eect .
v123 should be treated with caution as a model of causal induction , for exactly the reasons identied above : it is a symmetric test of sta - tistical dependency , while causal support postulates a specic form and direction for a causal relationship .
the dierent assumptions behind these two approaches can re - sult in quite dierent predictions .
causal induction involves two problems : evaluating whether or not a causal rela - tionship exists , and establishing the strength of that relationship .
causal graphical models provide the tools for treating both of these problems formally , in terms of struc - ture learning and parameter estimation .
in the remainder of the paper , we will argue that the focus on parameter estimation in previous models of elemental causal induc - tion is responsible for the inability of these models to account for several trends in hu - man judgments , and we will show that causal support fares better in explaining these phenomena .
we will examine in detail ve phenomena that are problematic for existing models , but are predicted by causal support .
these phenomena were introduced in sec - tion 123 : the interaction between dp and the base - rate probability of the eect , ) , as demonstrated in buehner and cheng ( 123 ) ; non - monotonic judgments as a result of changes in base - rate , as seen by lober and shanks ( 123 ) ; eects of sample size ( e . g . , white , 123 , 123c , 123c ) ; inferences from contingency tables with empty cells; and causal induction from rates ( cf .
wasserman , 123; anderson & sheu , 123 ) .
interaction between dp and p ( e+|c
in section 123 , we discussed results from experiment 123b of buehner and cheng ( 123; later published in buehner et al . , 123 ) which are shown in fig
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
experiment used an online format , and produced trends that were independently problematic for both dp and causal power , as well as a trend that neither model could predict : peoples judgments at dp = 123 decrease as the base - rate probability ) , decreases .
the fundamental problem in explaining the results of the eect , p ( e+|c of buehner and cheng ( 123 ) is accounting for the interaction between dp and the base - rate probability in producing human judgments .
dp predicts no interaction , and causal power predicts the simple relationship given in eq .
( 123 ) , but neither of these predictions matches human judgments .
we will show that causal support is able to correctly predict this interaction , demonstrating that the model can capture the trends found by buehner and cheng ( 123 ) .
causal support correctly predicts the interaction between dp and p ( e+|c
123 shows the data from buehner and cheng ( 123 , experiment 123b ) together with predictions of four models : dp , causal power , causal support , and v123
as noted in section 123 , both dp and causal power capture some trends in the data , but miss others , resulting in correlations of r = . 123 and r = . 123
causal support provides the best quantitative account of this dataset , r = . 123 , c = . 123 , and accounts for all of the major trends in human judgments , including those at dp = 123
due to the small samples , v123 gives a poor approximation to causal support , and a correlation of r = . 123 , c = . 123
inuencing peoples judgments .
in particular , it is the only model that predicts hu - man judgments at dp = 123
the explanation for these predictions is not that there ) decreases , but rather that is decreasing evidence for a causal relationship as p ( e+|c ) = 123 , and there is little evidence for or against a causal relationship when p ( e+|c ) decreases .
this account increasing evidence against a causal relationship as p ( e+|c depends on the assumption that the causal relationshipif it existsis generative ( increasing the probability of the eect , rather than preventing it ) .
at one extreme , ) ) = ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , all mice expressed the gene irrespective of when ( p ( e+|c+ ) , p ( e+|c treatment , and intuitively there should be no evidence for a causal relationship .
but there can also be no evidence against a ( generative ) causal relationship , because of a complete ceiling eect : it is impossible for the cause to increase the probability ) = 123
this uncertainty in causal of e occurring above its baseline value when p ( e+|c ) = 123 and dp = 123 is predicted by both causal support , which judgment when p ( e+|c is near 123 , and also ( as cheng , 123 , points out ) by causal power , which is undened decreases .
causal support becomes increasingly negative as the ceiling eect weakens and the observation that dp = 123 provides increasing evidence against a generative ) = 123 / 123 , no untreated mice causal relationship .
at the other extreme , when p ( e+|c expressed the gene , and there are eight opportunities for a causal relationship to manifest itself in the treated mice if such a relationship in fact exists .
the fact that the eect does not appear in any treated mice , p ( e+|c+ ) = 123 / 123 , strongly suggests that the drug does not cause gene expression .
the intermediate cases provide intermediate evidence against a causal relationship .
the contingencies ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) oer six chances for the treatment to have an eect , and the fact that it never does so is slightly weaker evidence against a relationship than in the ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) case , but more compelling than
only causal support , however , predicts the gradient of judgments as p ( e+|c
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , where the cause only has two chances to manifest itself and the obser - vation that dp = 123 could easily be a coincidence .
this gradient of uncertainty shapes the bayesian structural inference underlying causal support , but it does not impact the maximum - likelihood parameter estimates underlying causal power or dp .
the posterior distribution on w123 for each set of contingencies .
greater certainty in the
123 reveals why causal support is sensitive to the change in p ( e+|c
marginal posterior distributions on w123 and values of causal support for the contingencies used in buehner and cheng ( 123 , experiment 123b ) .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
value of w123 is reected in a more peaked distribution , and causal support becomes larger as it becomes more apparent that w123 is greater than zero .
the top ve plots show the cases where dp = 123
despite the fact that dp is the same in these ve cases , the posterior distributions on w123 look quite dierent .
four of the distributions have a maximum at w123 = 123 , consistent with the estimate of causal power for these contin - gencies , but they dier in the certainty of the estimate , reected in the breadth of ) increases , fewer observations contribute the posterior about this point . 123 as p ( e+|c to the estimate of w123 , and the posterior becomes more diuse , being almost uniform
) = 123
this explanation can also be applied to a similar trend that emerges with preven - tive causes .
the results of experiment 123a of buehner and cheng ( 123; also pub - lished in buehner et al . , 123 ) , are shown in fig .
this experiment followed a design analogous to experiment 123b , but with preventive causes .
here , peoples judg - ) increases .
causal support , parameterized with ments for dp = 123 decrease as p ( e+|c a noisy - and - not ( eq .
( 123 ) ) rather than a noisy - or , provides the best account of these data , including the trend at dp = 123 , with r = . 123 , c = 123 .
causal power performs similarly , r = . 123 , c = 123 , while dp gives r = . 123 , c = 123 and v123 gives r = . 123 , c = 123 .
the explanation for the predictions of causal power is sim - ilar to the generative case , although now the ceiling eect is a oor eect : as ) increases there is more opportunity for a non - zero value of w123 to be
non - monotonic eects of p ( e+|c
accounting for the interaction between dp and the base - rate probability , ) , is fundamental to explaining the results of buehner and cheng ( 123 ) .
it is also important in explaining other phenomena of causal induction .
the second dataset discussed in section 123 was experiments 123 from lober and shanks ( 123 ) , shown in fig .
dp accounts for these data quite well , reected in the high correlation coecient , r = . 123 , c = 123 , while causal power does poorly , r = . 123 , c = 123 .
however , neither of these models can predict the non - monotonic eect of ) ) pairs ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
a similar , but weaker , trend can be seen in the online data of buehner and cheng ( 123 , experiment 123b ) , shown in fig .
123 , for the contingencies ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
these non - monotonic trends cannot even be predicted by models that form linear combinations of the entries in a contingency table , such as those of anderson and sheu ( 123 ) and schustack and sternberg ( 123 ) , despite their many free parameters and great exibility .
) seen with the ( p ( e+|c+ ) , p ( e+ , c
123 the distribution for w123 when p ( e+|c+ ) = p ( e+|c
) = 123 is mostly at but has a very slight peak at w123 = 123 , despite causal power being undened for this case .
this is because there is also uncertainty in the value of w123
if w123 actually takes on any value less than 123 , and the large number of occurrences of the eect in the absence of the cause is just a coincidence , then the large number of occurrences of the eect in the presence of the cause still needs to be explained , and the best explanation is that w123 is high .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
predictions of rational models compared with the performance of human participants from buehner and cheng ( 123 , experiment 123a ) .
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus contingencies , error bars indicate one standard error .
causal support gives the best quantitative t to this dataset , r = . 123 , c = 123 , with v123 performing similarly , r = . 123 , c = 123 .
both causal support and v123 predict non - monotonic trends , as shown in fig .
the intuitive reasons for these predictions were mentioned when discussing fig .
123 , which uses exactly the same set of contingen - cies : while ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) suggests a higher value of causal power than ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , such a dierence in contingencies is more likely to arise by chance .
as with the expla - nation of predictions for dp = 123 given in section 123 , the high certainty in the value of w123 for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) results partly from the low value of p ( e+|c
the non - monotonic trend observed in experiments 123 of lober and shanks ( 123 ) did not appear in their experiments 123 , despite the use of the same contin - gencies , as shown in fig .
the only dierence between these two sets of experiments
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
predictions of rational models compared with the performance of participants from lober and shanks ( 123 , experiments 123 ) .
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus contingencies , but the results are constructed by averaging over the blocks of trials seen by individual subjects , in which
was the presentation format , with an online format being used in experiments 123 , and a summary format in experiments 123
this presents a challenge for the expla - nation based on causal support given above .
however , we will argue that this dis - crepancy can be resolved through a ner - grained analysis of these experiments .
catena , maldonado , and candido ( 123 ) and collins and shanks ( 123 ) both found that peoples judgments in online experiments are inuenced by response fre - quency .
specically , people seem to make judgments that are based upon the infor - mation presented since their last judgment , meaning that primacy or recency eects can be produced by using dierent response schedules ( collins & shanks , 123 ) .
lober and shanks ( 123 ) used a procedure in which participants made judg - ments after blocks of trials , with six blocks of length 123 in experiment 123 , two blocks of length 123 , and one of length 123 in experiment 123 , and 123 blocks of length 123 in experiment 123
the actual trials presented in each block were selected at random .
thus , while the overall contingencies might match those used in experiments 123 , the contingencies contributing to any individual judgment varied .
this may account for the dierence between the results of the two experiments .
in particular , the small - er sample sizes contributing to the contingencies may aect peoples judgments .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
correlations of rational models with results from lober and shanks ( 123 )
boldface indicates highest correlation in each row .
to test this hypothesis , we used the records of the individual trials seen by the par - ticipants in these experiments to establish the contingencies each participant saw in each block , and evaluated the performance of dierent models in predicting the judg - ments of individual participants for each block from these contingencies . 123 the results of these analyses are given in table 123
the correlations are lower than those reported elsewhere in the paper because they concern the responses of individual participants rather than average scores .
while all models did equally well in predicting the results of experiments 123 and 123 , causal support gave a better account of the results of exper - iment 123 , with a correlation of r = . 123 as compared to r = . 123 for dp , and r = . 123 for v123
the model predictions , averaged across blocks and participants in the same fashion as the data , are shown in fig .
the mean values of causal support do not show any predicted non - monotonicity , in accord with the data .
as shown in ta - ble 123 , the mean causal support correlates better with the mean human judgments than the mean predictions of any other model , with r = . 123 for causal support , r = . 123 for dp , and r = . 123 for v123
there are two reasons why causal support does not predict a non - monotonic trend for experiments 123 : smaller samples , and variation in observed contingencies .
the eect of sample size is simple : causal support predicts a non - monotonic trend for contingencies derived from 123 trials in each condition , but this trend is almost com - pletely gone when there are only 123 trials in each condition .
small samples provide weaker evidence that the strength of the cause is dierent from zero in all conditions , with ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) giving equivalently weak support for a causal relationship .
the eect of variation in observed contingencies is more complex .
since both dp and causal power are estimated from the conditional probabilities p ( e|c ) , and the empirical probabilities give unbiased estimates of the true probabilities , aver - aging across many sets of contingencies generated according to those probabilities gives mean values that approximate the true dp and causal power .
causal support is a more complex function of observed contingencies , and averaging causal support across a set of samples produces dierent results from computing causal support from the average contingencies .
in particular , variation in the contingencies within
123 the raw data from lober and shanks ( 123 ) were supplied by klaus melcher .
the models compared in this section were t using the same scaling parameter for all participants within the same experiment .
causal power was not computed for this comparison , as the presence of extreme contingencies in several cases resulted in undened values of causal power , interfering with correlations and averaging .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
blocks results in some blocks providing very weak evidence for a causal relationship ( for example , in the ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) condition , one participant saw a block in which the cause was present on eight trials , but the eect occurred on only one of these trials ) .
such results have the greatest eect in the ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) condition , and the mean causal support in this condition consequently ends up slightly lower than causal sup - port estimated from mean contingencies .
) appears in both lober and shanks ( 123 , experiments 123 ) and buehner and cheng ( 123 ) , it has not been the principal target of any experiments .
since no existing model of elemental causal induction can predict this phenomenon , conrming its existence would provide strong evidence in favor of causal support .
experiment 123 was designed to explore this non - monotonic
although a non - monotonic eect of p ( e+|c
experiment 123
one hundred and eight stanford undergraduates participated for course credit .
the contingencies used in the experiment are shown in fig .
they included three sets of three contingencies at xed values of dp but dierent values of p ( e+|c several distractors .
the sets of contingencies with xed dp used dp = 123 , ) within these sets , so dp = 123 and dp = 123 .
dp predicts no eect of p ( e+|c any eect provides evidence against this model .
causal power predicts a monotonic ) increases , and causal support predicts a increase in peoples judgments as p ( e+|c non - monotonic trend in the rst two sets of contingencies , and a monotonic increase ) in the third .
finding non - monotonic eects in the rst two sets of con - tingencies would thus provide evidence for causal support over causal power .
the experiment was conducted in survey form .
the instructions placed the prob -
lem of causal induction in a medical context :
imagine that you are working in a laboratory and you want to nd out whether certain chemicals cause certain genes to be expressed in mice .
below , you can see laboratory records for a number of studies .
in each study , a sample of mice were injected with a certain chemical and later examined to see if they expressed a par - ticular gene .
each study investigated the eects of a dierent chemical on a dier - ent gene , so the results from dierent studies bear no relation to each other .
of course , these genes may sometimes be expressed in animals not injected with a chemical substance .
thus , a sample of mice who were not injected with any chemical were also checked to see if they expressed the same genes as the
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
predictions of rational models compared with results of experiment 123
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus contingencies .
these numbers give the number of times the eect was present out of 123 trials , for all except the last column , where the cause was present on 123 trials and absent on 123
the rst three groups of contingencies are organized to display non - monotonicities in judgments , the last group contains distractor stimuli .
error bars indicate one standard error .
injected mice .
also , some chemicals may have a large eect on gene expression , some may have a small eect , and others , no eect .
participants were then asked for ratings on a total of 123 dierent contingency
structures .
the instructions for producing the ratings were :
for each study , write down a number between 123 and 123 , where 123 indicates that the chemical does not cause the gene to be expressed at all , and 123 indi - cates that the chemical does cause the gene to be expressed every time .
each participant completed the survey as part of a booklet of unrelated
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
results and discussion
dp = 123 ,
the results are shown in fig .
as predicted , there was a statistically signicant ) in all three sets of contingencies with xed dp .
for dp = 123 , eect of p ( e+|c f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , p< . 123 , for dp = . 123 , f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , p < . 123
since a quadratic trend analysis would only test deviation from linearity , and not non - ) in each of these sets of contingen - monotonicity , we evaluated the eect of p ( e+|c ) .
the response cies by testing each pair of means with neighboring values of p ( e+|c for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) was signicantly greater than that for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , t ( 123 ) = 123 , p < . 123 , and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) was signicantly less than ( 123 / dp = . 123
the response for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) was signicantly greater than that for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , t ( 123 ) = 123 , p < . 123 , and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) was signicantly less than ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , t ( 123 ) = 123 , p < . 123 , indicating a non - monotonic trend at dp = 123 .
at dp = . 123 , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) was greater than ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , t ( 123 ) = 123 , p < . 123 , but there was no signicant dierence between ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , t ( 123 ) = 123 , p = . 123 , providing no evidence for non -
indicating a non - monotonic
t ( 123 ) = 123 , p < . 123 ,
the results of this experiment suggest that the non - monotonicitic trend seen by lober and shanks ( 123 ) is a robust aspect of human judgments , even though it may be a small eect .
such trends can be used to assess models of causal induction .
causal support , v123 , and dp gave similarly high correlations with the experimental results , with r = . 123 , c = . 123 , r = . 123 , c = . 123 , and r = . 123 , c = . 123 , respective - ly .
causal power performed far worse , with r = . 123 , c = . 123
the statistically sig - ) in the three sets of contingencies with xed dp are nicant eects of p ( e+|c contrary to the predictions of dp .
only causal support and v123 predicted the observed
sample size eects
in explaining the results of lober and shanks ( 123 , experiments 123 ) , we touched upon the issue of sample size .
sample size is an important factor that aects structure learning but not parameter estimation : larger samples provide better grounds for assessing the evidence for a causal relationship , but do not aect param - eter estimation .
both dp and causal power are computed using the conditional prob - abilities p ( e|c ) , rather than the number of observations contributing to these probabilities .
consequently , they predict no variation in judgments as the number of trials on which the cause was present or absent is varied .
in contrast , both causal support and v123 are sensitive to sample size .
there are two dimensions along which sample size might be varied : the ratio of the number of trials on which the cause is present or absent ( n ( c+ ) and n ( c ) has been and the total number of trials ( n ) .
variation of the ratio of n ( c+ ) to n ( c explored extensively by white ( 123 , 123c , 123c ) .
these experiments revealed
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
several eects of sample size , inconsistent with the predictions of dp and causal power , and were taken to support whites ( 123c ) proportion of conrming instanc - ) .
we will discuss the es ( pci ) model , which diers from dp only when n ( c+ ) n ( c pci model further in section 123
we applied all ve modelsdp , causal power , pci , causal support , and v123to the results of these experiments , producing the correla - tions shown in table 123
for several of these experiments , dp was constant for all stimuli , resulting in a correlation of 123 between dp and human judgments .
we also present the results of the ve models on experiment 123 of anderson and sheu ( 123 ) , in which the entries in single cells of the contingency table were varied sys - tematically , resulting in some sample size variation as well as other eects .
the ob - served eects of sample size were broadly consistent with causal support , which gave either the best or close to the best account of 123 of the 123 datasets .
there was no systematic relationship between the format in which contingency information was presented and the performance of the models , although causal support gave the best correlations with the three online datasets .
variation of the total number of trials producing a set of contingencies , n , has been studied less extensively .
white ( 123c , experiment 123 ) , conducted an experiment in which this quantity was varied , and found no statistically signicant eect on hu - man ratings .
as shown in fig .
123 , causal support makes clear predictions about the eect of n on the evidence for a causal relationship , and the demonstration of such an eect would provide evidence for the involvement of structure learning in human causal induction .
one possible explanation for the lack of a sample size eect in whites ( 123c ) experiment is the use of ratings as a dependent measure : the eect of sample size might be concealed by allowing people the possibility of giving equal ratings to dierent stimuli .
consequently , we decided to explore this phenomenon further , using a more sensitive response measure : experiment 123 was designed to
correlations of rational models with sample size experiments
anderson and sheu ( 123 )
boldface indicates highest correlation in each row .
number in parentheses in format column indicates number of stimuli .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
examine whether sample size aects peoples assessment of causal relationships , using a rank ordering task .
experiment 123
participants were 123 members of the mit community who took part in the exper -
iment in exchange for candy .
we used nine stimuli , each composed of dierent contingency data .
the two crit - ical sets of contingencies were a set for which dp = 123 , consisting of ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , and a set for which dp = 123 , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
dp , pci , and causal power are constant for these sets of stimuli , and any ordering should thus be equally likely .
v123 predicts an increase in judgments with sample size for the dp = 123 set , but is constant for the dp = 123 set .
causal sup - port predicts sample size should result in an increase in judgments with dp = 123 , and a decrease with dp = 123 , as shown in fig .
the experiment also included three distractors , to conceal our manipulation : ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
participants read a description of an imaginary laboratory scenario , similar to that used in experiment 123 , and were shown nine cards that expressed the stimulus information described above .
they were given the following instructions :
each of the cards in front of you summarizes the results of a dierent study .
look these summaries over carefully , and then place them in order from the study from which it seems least likely that the chemical causes the gene to be expressed , to the study in which it seems most likely that the chem - ical causes the gene to be expressed .
the wording of the question in terms of likelihood followed the procedure report - ed by white ( 123c ) .
if participants asked whether cards could be ranked equally , they were told that they could order them randomly .
results and discussion
analysis of the orderings produced by the participants showed that 123 out of 123 ordered the stimuli with dp = 123 by increasing sample size ( binomial test , p < . 123 ) , while 123 out of 123 ordered the stimuli with dp = 123 by decreasing sample size ( bino - mial test , p < . 123 ) .
we computed rank - order correlations with the responses of indi - vidual participants for each of the ve models .
we computed the rank - order correlations with the ve models for each participant , averaging these correlations
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
to result in scores for each model . 123 causal support and v123 performed equivalently , q = 123 and q = 123 , respectively , followed by dp , q = 123 , and causal power , q = 123 .
causal support gave the highest correlation with the responses of eleven participants , causal power and v123 with four participants each , and dp with only one
the results indicate that people are sensitive to sample size when making causal judgments .
specically , increasing sample size increases judgments when eects are large , but decreases judgments for zero eects .
only causal support can explain this pattern of results .
sensitivity to sample size is a property of structure learning , not parameter estimation , and thus provides evidence that people approach problems of causal induction as structure learning problems .
inferences from incomplete contingency tables
we began this paper by observing that everyday causal induction has several commonalities with the reasoning of early scientists .
among these commonalities is the need to make inferences from limited data .
in many settings where people infer causal relationships , they do not have all of the information that is typically provided in causal induction tasks .
specically , without a carefully designed experiment , we often do not know the frequency of the eect in the absence of the cause , leaving some of the cells in a contingency table empty .
while our epi - graph indicates the attention that james currie paid to the number of patients who recovered both with and without treatment , such reporting was the exception rather than the rule prior to the development of modern experimentation .
many early medical texts , such as jenners ( 123 ) famous treatise on the smallpox vac - cine , consist of a description of a number of cases in which the treatment proved successful , providing only n ( e+ , c+ ) .
to make an inference from such data , his readers had to use their expectations about the frequency of infections in the ab - sence of treatment .
dp and causal power are both undened when there are no trials on which the ) cannot be computed .
this is a problem , as people cause was absent , since p ( e+|c readily make causal judgments under such circumstances .
for example , suppose that a doctor claims to have invented a treatment that will cure a rare illness , hopkins francis syndrome .
he tells you that he has given this treatment to one patient with hopkinsfrancis syndrome , and after one month , all the patients symptoms are gone .
how much evidence does this provide for the treatments eectiveness ? it may provide some evidence , but not strong evidence , since we do not know how many patients would recover spontaneously in this interval .
123 correlations were averaged using the fisher z transformation .
these results include only 123 of the 123 participants , since causal support perfectly predicted the ordering given by one participant , resulting in an innite z score .
the reported mean correlation is thus an underestimate for causal support .
while the other models do not predict an ordering for the two critical sets , they do predict an ordering among the full set of nine stimuli , hence q > 123
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
a few months later , the doctor tells you that he has now given the treatment to three patients , and after one month all of their symptoms are gone .
these data provide stronger evidence , but not that much stronger .
the evidence is strengthened once more when , a few months later , the doctor tells you that he has given the treatment to twenty patients , and after one month all of their symptoms are gone .
finally , the doctor tells you that he has also seen twenty patients over the same time period who received a placebo instead of the new treatment , and all people in this group still had symptoms after a month of observation .
moreover , the people who received the treatment or the placebo were chosen at random .
now this provides very strong evidence for the treat -
we can identify ve stages in the accumulation of evidence in this example .
the rst stage is the baseline , with no information , and the contingencies ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
after a single observation , we have ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
two more observations provide ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , and 123 more successful treatments give ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
finally , the control condition provides ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
dp and causal power can only be computed for this last case , where they both indicate strong evidence for a caus - al relationship , dp = power = 123 .
they are undened for the other contingency tables , and thus cannot capture the weak but growing evidence these tables pro - vide .
causal support is 123 for ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , reecting the lack of evidence for or against a causal relationship ( negative values of causal support indicate evidence for graph 123 , while positive values indicate evidence for graph 123 ) .
causal sup - port then gradually increases as the observations accumulate , taking values of 123 , 123 , and 123 , before jumping dramatically to 123 for when the control condition is added .
unlike dp or causal power , causal support thus predicts our intuitive ordering of the strength of evidence provided by these ve stimuli .
in experiment 123 , we examined whether this ordering matched the judgments of na -
experiment 123
participants were 123 members of the mit community who took part in the exper -
iment in exchange for candy .
we used the ve stimuli described above : ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ( 123 /
123 , 123 / 123 ) , and ( 123 / 123 , 123 / 123 ) .
the procedure was identical to that of experiment 123 , with the stimuli being pre -
sented on cards and participants being asked to provide an ordering .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
results and discussion
analysis of the orderings produced by the participants showed that 123 out of 123 perfectly reproduced the ordering predicted by causal support ( binomial test , p < . 123 ) .
the other ve participants still showed some conformity to the predictions of causal support , with a mean correlation of q = 123 .
dp and causal power are undened for all but one of these stimuli , preventing the computation of any
causal support is the only model we have considered that is capable of capturing peoples inferences from incomplete contingency tables .
the ability to infer causal relationships from limited data is an extremely important part of causal induction in both everyday and scientic settings .
even today , many medical treatments are initially tested with small samples and incomplete contingency tables .
many doctors say they do not believe in a drugs eectiveness until it passes large - scale studies with appropriate controls , in part because standard statistical practice does not provide a rigorous way to evaluate treatment eectiveness with such limited data .
however , the researchers who are actually coming up with and testing new treatments need to have some way of evaluating which treatments are promising and which are not , or they would never make any progress .
causal support provides an account of the rational basis of these intuitions .
learning from rates
several studies of elemental causal induction have gone beyond inferences from contingency table data , examining how people learn about causal relationships from rate data ( e . g . , anderson & sheu , 123; wasserman , 123 ) .
rates are closely related to contingencies , being the number of times the eect occurs in a continuous interval rather than the number of times the eect occurs on a set of discrete trials .
despite this relationship , previous models of causal induction such as dp and causal power have not been assessed using rate data .
in this section , we will show how these mod - els can be extended to allow inferences from rate data , and evaluate their predictions about human judgments .
this novel setting provides an opportunity to test the gen - erality of our framework , as the distinction between structure and strength holds whether the observed data are rates or contingencies .
anderson and sheu ( 123 , experiment 123 ) conducted an experiment in which par - ticipants learned whether clicking on a ute icon caused a change in the rate of mu - sical notes produced by the ute .
they found that their results were poorly predicted by the dierence in rates , dened as
dr nc nc;
where n ( c+ ) is the number of events in the interval when the cause , in this case click - ) is the number of events when the cause was ing on the ute , was present , and n ( c absent .
anderson and sheu ( 123 ) found that performance could be better predicted by grating contrast , which they dened as
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
contrast nc nc
and justied by its use as a measure of contrast in psychophysical research .
they gave no theoretical motivation for using this measure .
in the remainder of this section , we will develop a rational account of causal induc - tion from rates .
this account makes explicit the relationship between dr , dp , and causal power , revealing that dr is the maximum - likelihood parameter estimate of the strength of a causal relationship , and allows us to dene causal support for rate data .
the rst step in this analysis is dening a parameterization for graph 123 and graph 123 that is appropriate for outcomes that are rates rather than discrete trials .
the poisson distribution is commonly used in statistics for modeling the number of events that occur within a xed interval .
under this distribution , the number of events n occurring in a single unit of time will have probability
pn ek kn
where k is the rate parameter .
we can use the poisson distribution to dene a param - eterization for graph 123 and graph 123 that is an extension of the linear and noisy - or parameterizations to continuous time .
under a noisy - or parameterization where the event e has parents b and c , the probability of e if just b is present is w123 , and the probability of e with both b and c present is w123 + w123w123w123 , where the last term corrects for double - counting the cases in which both b and c would have produced e .
extending this model to the case where events are emitted over a continuous interval , the probability of an event at any point in time is simply the sum of the probabilities for each of the parents , as in the linear parameterization , since the probability of two events from a poisson process occurring simultaneously is zero .
the resulting process is the sum of the poisson processes associated with the parents , and the sum of two indepen - dent poisson processes is a poisson process with a rate equal to the sum of the rates of the original processes .
this gives us the parameterization
pnjb; c; k123; k123 ebk123ck123 bk123 ck123n
where k123 is the rate associated with b , and k123 is the rate associated with c .
under the model specied by eq .
( 123 ) , dr is the maximum likelihood parameter estimate for k123
the correspondence to dp and causal power can be seen by taking the rate information as just the positive events in a contingency table where the total ) for unknown sample size is unknown , so n ( c+ ) = np ( e+|c+ ) and n ( c n .
if we assume that n is xed across dierent experiments , we can obtain estimates consistent with the ordering and magnitude implied by dp using dr = n ( c+ ) n ( c = ndp .
if we make the further assumption that n is very large , dr will also correspond to causal power , since p ( e
) will tend to 123
) = np ( e+|c
using the parameterization given in eq .
( 123 ) , we can dene causal support as in eq .
( 123 ) , where graph 123 is the model in which b is the only parent of e , and graph 123 is the model in which both b and c are parents of e .
the details of this model are provided in appendix a , where we also justify the approximation
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
r nc nc123
this approximation bears the same relationship to causal support for rates as the pearson v123 test for independence does for contingency data : it is a frequentist inde - pendence test that will be asymptotically equivalent to causal support .
computing v123 involves dividing the squared dierence between the observed rates by the variance of the rate in the absence of the cause , comparing the magnitude of the eect of introducing the cause to the variation that should arise by chance .
this may account for the ecacy of the grating contrast model used by anderson and sheu ( 123 ) , which involves a similar ratio .
our analysis provides a set of models that generalize dp , causal power , causal sup - port , and v123 to allow causal induction from rates .
unfortunately , the procedure used in previous experiments exploring causal induction from rates ( anderson & sheu , 123; wasserman , 123 ) prevents modeling of their data without detailed information about the performance of individual participants .
these experiments used a procedure in which participants interacted with objects , and then observed whether there was an alteration in the rate of the eect after their interaction .
the models described in this section cannot be applied to these data without a record of the number of periods of interaction and non - interaction .
to address this issue we conducted our own experi - ments , in which participants were provided with information about the rate of occur - rence of the eect in the presence and absence of the cause directly , using both summary ( experiment 123 ) and online ( experiment 123 ) formats .
experiment 123
eighty - two stanford university undergraduates took part in the study .
a questionnaire presented a summary of nine experiments involving dierent chemical compounds and electrical elds , giving the number of particle emissions in - side and outside the electrical eld .
the number of particle emissions in each example was selected to give three critical sets of rates ( expressed as ( n ( c+ ) , n ( c ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , for which dr = 123 , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) for which dr = 123 , and ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , for which dr = 123
the instructions outlined a hypothetical laboratory scenario :
imagine that you are working in a laboratory and you want to nd out whether electrical elds inuence the radioactive decay of certain chemical compounds .
below , you can see laboratory records for a number of studies .
in each study , a
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
sample of some particular compound was placed inside a particular kind of electrical eld for one minute , and the rate of radioactive decay was measured ( in number of particles emitted per minute ) .
each study investigated the eects of a dierent kind of eld on a dierent kind of chemical compound , so the results from dierent studies bear no relation to each other .
of course , the chemical compounds can emit particles even when not in an elec - trical eld , and they do so at dierent rates .
some compounds naturally decay at a fast rate , while others naturally decay at a slow rate .
thus , the decay rate of each compound was also measured for one minute in the absence of any electrical eld .
for each study below , you can see how many particles were emitted during one minute inside the electrical eld , and during one minute outside of the electrical eld .
what you must decide is whether the electrical eld increases the rate of particle emissions for each chemical compound .
participants were instructed to provide ratings in response to a question like that of experiment 123
ratings were made on a scale from 123 ( the eld denitely does not cause the compound to decay ) to 123 ( the eld denitely does cause the compound to decay ) .
each participant completed the survey as part of a booklet of unrelated experiments .
results and discussion
the results are shown in fig .
123 , together with the model predictions .
there was a ) at dr = 123 ( f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , statistically signicant eect of n ( c p < . 123 ) , dr = 123 ( f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , p < . 123 ) , and dr = 123 ( f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , p < . 123 ) .
causal support and v123 r gave equivalent quantitative ts , r = . 123 , c = 123 , and r = . 123 , c = . 123 , respectively , followed by grating contrast , r = . 123 , c = 123 , and dr , r = . 123 , c = 123 .
causal power as - sumes the wrong statistical model for this kind of data , but might be applied if we assumed that participants were comparing the rates to some hypothetical maximum number of particles that might be emitted , n .
as n approaches innity , causal power converges to dr .
the trends predicted by causal power do not vary with the choice of n , so the value n = 123 was chosen to allow these trends to be illustrated .
the predicted trends are clearly at odds with those observed in the data , reected in the correlation r = . 123 , c = 123 .
since dr predicts that responses within each of the critical sets should be con - ) is inconsistent with this model .
this stant , the statistically signicant eect of n ( c trend is , however , predicted by causal support and v123 r .
these predictions reect the ) increases : if the eect oc - fact that the certainty in the value of k123 decreases as n ( c curs at a high rate in the absence of the cause , it becomes more dicult to determine if an increase in the number of times the eect is observed when the cause is present ) is thus a sign that people actually reects a causal relationship .
the eect of n ( c are attempting to determine the causal structure underlying their observations .
to demonstrate that these results generalize to cases where rates are supplied perceptu - ally rather than in summary format , we replicated this experiment using online pre - sentation in experiment 123
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
power ( n = 123 )
predictions of rational models compared with results of experiment 123
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus rates , error bars indicate one standard error .
experiment 123
participants were 123 members of the mit brain and cognitive sciences depart -
ment subject pool .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
the stimuli were the same as those for experiment 123 , with the addition of three
stimuli used for an initial practice phase .
these stimuli used the ( n ( c+ ) , n ( c ( 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 , 123 ) , and ( 123 , 123 ) .
the experiment was administered by computer .
participants were provided with instructions similar to those for experiment 123 , establishing the same laboratory cover story .
the experiment consisted of three practice trials , followed by nine trials that used the same rate information as experiment 123
in each trial , participants saw a picture of a novel mineral substance , and observed it for 123 s while it emitted particles , indicated by a beep and the temporary appearance of a mark on a particle detector shown on screen .
they then clicked a button to turn on a magnetic eld for another 123 s , and ob - served the particle emissions in the presence of the magnetic eld .
after having ob - served the mineral both in and out of the magnetic eld , they rated the causal relationship between the magnetic eld and particle emissions using a slider , with the same instructions as used in experiment 123
the actual times of the particle emissions on each trial were generated from a uniform distribution over 123 s , with a minimum of 123 ms between emissions to ensure that they were perceptually distinct .
results and discussion
the results are shown in fig .
123 , together with the model predictions .
the results reproduced the trends found in experiment 123 , correlating with the previous data at ) at dr = 123 r = . 123
there was a statistically signicant eect of n ( c ( f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , ( f ( 123 , 123 ) = 123 , mse = 123 , p < . 123 ) , but not at dr = 123 ( f ( 123 , 123 ) = . 123 , mse = 123 , r , and dr all showed similar quantitative t , r = . 123 , p = . 123 ) .
causal support , v123 c = 123 , r = . 123 , c = 123 , and r = . 123 , c = 123 , respectively , followed by grat - ing contrast , r = . 123 , c = 123 .
causal power , computed with n = 123 , fared better on these data than on experiment 123 , r = . 123 , c = 123 .
and dr = 123
p < . 123 )
the statistically signicant dierences among sets of rates for which dr is constant provides evidence against peoples responses being driven by parameter estimation .
the trends predicted by causal support are slightly less pronounced in these data than in experiment 123 , which we suspect may be a consequence of the more perceptual pre - sentation format .
in particular , the results for dr = 123 may be a result of greater per - ) increases : for ( 123 , 123 ) and ( 123 , 123 ) , it is quite easy to count the ceptual noise as n ( c number of particle emissions in the presence and absence of the cause , and to make an inference informed by these counts .
for ( 123 , 123 ) , it is easy to lose count , and people may be less certain that the dierence is small .
despite these small discrepancies , the results generally reproduce the trends observed in experiment 123 , and support the same conclusion : that people are making a structural inference when asked to assess a caus - al relationship , regardless of whether the data are discrete contingencies or dynamic rates .
our framework makes it possible to explain these results , and only causal sup - port predicts human judgments for both of these kinds of data .
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
power ( n = 123 )
predictions of rational models compared with results of experiment 123
numbers along the top of the gure show stimulus rates , error bars indicate one standard error .
general discussion
we have presented a rational computational framework for analyzing the prob - lem of elemental causal induction , using causal graphical models to emphasize the two components of this problem : parameter estimationestimation of the strength of a causal relationshipand structure learningevaluation of whether a causal relationship actually exists .
two leading rational models of elemental causal
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
induction , dp and causal power , both address the problem of parameter estimation .
we have described ve phenomena that suggest that , in many circumstances , people are approaching causal induction as structure learning .
causal support , a rational solution to the problem of learning causal structure , provides the best account of the two datasets at the center of the current debate about rational modelsbuehner and cheng ( 123 ) and lober and shanks ( 123 ) and gives either the best or close to the best account of 123 out of the 123 other experiments we have analyzed ( anderson & sheu , 123; white , 123 , 123c , 123c ) .
it also predicts several eects that no exist - ing models can account for , in online , summary , and list formats , and in contingency and rate data , which we have validated through our own experiments .
our results provide strong evidence that human judgments in causal induction tasks are often driven by the problem of structure learning , and that causal support provides an appropriate model of these judgments .
we will close by discussing some issues raised by our analysis .
first , we will describe some other models that address the problem of structure learning .
we will then consider the circumstances under which we expect accounts based upon structure learning and parameter estimation to be most consistent with human judgments , before going on to clarify the relation - ship between causal support and ideas such as reliability ( buehner & cheng , 123; perales & shanks , 123 ) .
finally , we will sketch some ways in which our framework for elemental causal induction can be extended to shed light on other aspects of caus -
structure learning in other models of causal induction
our framework can be used to show that the leading models of elemental causal induction are both based upon parameter estimation .
it also makes it possible to reinterpret several other psychological models in terms of structure learning .
these models dier from causal support in terms of how they approach the issue of infer - ring causal structure , and in their assumptions about the functional form of the caus - al relationship between cause and eect .
we will briey discuss two models : andersons ( 123; anderson and sheu , 123 ) rational model , and whites ( 123c , 123b ) proportion of conrming instances model .
123 . 123
andersons rational model
anderson ( 123 ) presented a bayesian analysis of the problem of elemental causal induction .
the model was quite complex , with seven free parameters , and a simpler model , with four free parameters , was presented by anderson and sheu ( 123 ) .
the central idea of both models is that causal induction requires evaluating the hypoth - esis that the cause inuences the eect .
in our framework , this is a decision between graph 123 and graph 123 , just as in causal support .
under andersons approach , these structures have a dierent parameterization from that used in causal support .
in - stead of the noisy - or parameterization , a separate parameter is used to represent the probability of the eect for each set of values its causes take on .
either these parameters ( anderson & sheu , 123 ) or the prior on these parameters anderson ( 123 ) are chosen to provide the best t to human data .
as noted by anderson
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
and sheu ( 123 ) , this procedure results in predictions that are only slightly more restricted than linear regression using the cell counts from the contingency table ( cf .
schustack & sternberg , 123 ) .
in contrast , causal support involves no free parameters , with the model predictions being computed directly from contingencies , as with dp and causal power .
123 . 123
the proportion of conrming instances
white ( 123 , 123b , 123a , 123c , 123a , 123c ) has also argued that people make judgments in causal induction tasks by assessing the evidence that a causal relation - ship exists .
white ( 123c ) dened a measure of evidence termed the proportion of conrming instances ( pci ) , subsequently modied by white ( 123a ) to give the
pci ne; c ne; c ne; c ne; c ne; c ne; c ne; c ne; c .
this equation also appears in other models of elemental causal induction ( e . g . , cate - na et al . , 123 ) , was originally proposed by inhelder and piaget ( 123 , p .
123 ) , and is ) .
the numerator of eq .
( 123 ) has monotonically related to dp when n ( c+ ) = n ( c been explored as a model of causal induction in itself , being referred to as dd in the literature ( e . g . , allan , 123; allan & jenkins , 123; ward & jenkins , 123 ) , and we show in appendix a that it can be motivated from the perspective of struc - ture learning .
pci produces the same predictions as dp for the majority of our exper - iments , and suers many of the same problems .
the exception is its sensitivity to sample size : as shown in section 123 , it does reasonably well in predicting the eect ) , although it cannot account for the results of our exper - of varying n ( c+ ) and n ( c iments 123 or 123
when learning from rates , the grating contrast measure dened by anderson and sheu ( 123 ) , given in eq .
( 123 ) , corresponds exactly to pci .
parameter estimation and structure learning in human judgments
having distinguished between parameter estimation and structure learning as components of causal induction , it is natural to ask when we might expect one or the other to dominate human judgments .
we have shown that across many experi - ments , causal support gives a better account of peoples judgments than the maxi - mum likelihood parameter estimate for the same model , causal power .
these experiments all used tasks for which a structure - learning interpretation is reasonable .
however , several recent studies have begun to use a dierent question format , asking people to give a counterfactual conditional probability , for which a strength estimate is appropriate ( buehner et al . , 123; collins & shanks , submitted ) .
for example , rather than asking do injections cause gene expression ? , we could ask what is the probability that a mouse not expressing the gene before being injected will ex - press it after being injected with the chemical ? .
such questions elicit responses that are more consistent with causal power .
these results can be explained using the framework we have established in this paper : causal power gives the maximum like - lihood estimate of parameter w123 in eq .
the counterfactual questions used in
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
these experiments ask for the probability that , for a case in which c was not present and e did not occur , e would occur if c was introduced .
using the axiomatic treat - ment of counterfactuals developed by pearl ( 123 ) , this probability is just w123
con - sequently , the appropriate way to answer counterfactual questions is via parameter estimation , and responses should correspond more closely to causal power than to
causal support and reliability
buehner and cheng ( 123 ) appealed to the notion of reliability in trying to ex - plain aspects of their results that deviated from the predictions of the power pc theory .
to account for some of the data discussed above , they claimed that people sometimes conate condence in their estimates of causal power with the estimates themselves .
shanks and colleagues ( collins & shanks , submitted; perales & shanks , 123 ) have fur - ther explored this reliability hypothesis .
our framework can be used to make the no - tion of reliability precise , and to explain why it might inuence peoples judgments .
buehner and cheng seem to consider reliability of secondary importance in eval - uating causal relationships , acting something like the error bars on the estimate of causal power .
perales and shanks ( 123 ) convey a similar impression , equating reli - ability with condence in assessments of the strength of a causal relationship .
this notion of reliability thus seems to correspond to the certainty associated with a parameter estimate .
our framework provides a formal means of distinguishing be - tween an estimate and its certainty , based upon the posterior distribution on w123 , as shown in figs .
123 and 123
the location of the peak of this distribution indicates the strength of a relationship , and the width of this peak indicates the certainty in that estimate .
viewing causal induction as a structural inference makes it apparent that neither strength nor reliability should be considered primary : rational causal inferences should combine both factors .
causal support evaluates the evidence that w123 diers from zero .
this evidence generally increases as the peak of the posterior on w123 moves away from zero ( increasing strength ) , and as that peak becomes narrower
our framework explains human judgments as a rational combination of strength and certainty , rather than the result of strength estimates being confounded by reli - ability .
it also provides some suggestions about the circumstances in which the cer - tainty in an estimate should be relevant .
the results of buehner et al .
( 123 ) and collins and shanks ( submitted ) with counterfactual questions , summarized in sec - tion 123 , illustrate that certainty seems to inuence judgments less when a task explicitly involves parameter estimation .
without the rational explanation provided by our framework , it is dicult to explain why judgments should be confounded less by reliability when people are asked counterfactual questions .
limitations and extensions
the framework we have described in this paper , and the model of human judg - ments that we derived from it , causal support , address only the simplest cases of
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
causal induction .
we have not discussed the dynamics of causal judgments in online studies , or more complex inductive tasks such as those involving multiple causes .
we will briey consider these limitations , and some potential directions for extending the
123 . 123
the dynamics of causal judgments
the online presentation format makes it possible to ask participants to provide responses at several dierent points in the presentation of contingency information , providing the opportunity to measure the dynamics of causal judgments .
shanks et al .
( 123 ) and lo pez et al . , 123 discuss several phenomena involving changes in judgments over time , and trial order eects have been reported in several other studies ( e . g . , catena et al . , 123; collins & shanks , 123 ) .
specifying how structure learning and parameter estimation interact in peoples judgments over time presents a particularly interesting problem for future research .
we have conducted some pre - liminary work in this direction ( danks , griths , & tenenbaum , 123 ) , using a sim - ple bayesian formalism to provide a structure - sensitive strength estimate .
this model also deals naturally with the distinction between generative and preventive causes , simultaneously updating a probability distribution over underlying models ( genera - tive , preventive , and no relationship ) and distributions over the parameters of those models .
this model provides an account of some of the qualitative features of learn - ing curves from online experiments presented in shanks et al .
( 123 ) .
123 . 123
multiple causes
many important phenomena in causal induction , such as backwards blocking shanks ( 123 ) and other retrospective revaluation eects ( shanks & dickinson , 123; shanks et al . , 123 ) involve simultaneously learning about multiple causes .
the framework for elemental causal induction that we have outlined in this paper can naturally be extended to accommodate multiple causes .
the connection with causal graphical models claries how this extension should be made , as well as iden - tifying some of the options for dierent modeling approaches .
steyvers et al .
( 123 ) have shown that this kind of approach can be applied to situations involving multi - ple causes .
we have also demonstrated that an approach based on causal graphical models can provide an explanation for backwards blocking phenomena in particular causal induction tasks ( tenenbaum & griths , 123 ) .
123 . 123
non - probabilistic causes
one of the consequences of distinguishing between parameter estimation and structure learning is a better understanding of causal induction with non - probabilis - tic causes .
approaches to causal induction based upon strength estimation only pro - duce meaningful predictions when causes are probabilistic : if a causal relationship is deterministic , with the cause always producing the eect , the strength of the cause is 123 .
as a consequence , parameter estimation cannot be used to explain how people draw causal inferences about deterministic systems .
studies of causal induction from contingency data almost exclusively employ probabilistic causes , so this has not been identied as an issue for dp or causal power .
however , in many studies in the
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
broader literature on causal induction people make graded inferences about non - probabilistic causes ( e . g . , gopnik et al . , 123; tenenbaum , sobel , griths , & gopnik , submitted ) .
such inferences can be addressed within our framework : the decision be - tween causal structures can be made regardless of causal strength , and the degree of evidence for a causal relationship can vary even with deterministic causes .
our ap - proach to causal induction produces predictions consistent with peoples judgments in several settings involving deterministic causes ( e . g . , tenenbaum & griths , 123 ) .
we have used causal graphical models to identify two components of the problem of causal induction : structure learning and parameter estimation .
we have shown that previous rational models of causal induction only address the problem of parameter estimation .
by emphasizing the role of structure learning in human causal induction , we have been able to explain a variety of phenomena that were problem - atic for previous models , and to understand the inference that underlies the discovery that a causal relationship actually exists .
our approach explains not only lay peoples fundamental intuitions about cause and eect , but also the intuitions that drove dis - covery for early scientists , such as dr .
james currie of the epigraph , and that con - tinue to be important in the early stages of much contemporary scientic research .
looking beyond the simple setting of elemental causal induction , our bayesian approach provides a method for explaining how prior knowledge and statistical inference might be combined in causal learning .
human judgments about causality draw upon a rich body of knowledge about the mechanisms mediating between caus - es and eects , which relationships are plausible , and what functional forms particu - lar relationships might take .
the simple bayesian inference that underlies our account of elemental causal induction can be augmented to capture the role of this knowledge , via constraints on the prior probabilities of particular causal relation - ships , and constraints on the functional form of the probability distributions dened on those structures .
this capacity to capture the interaction between top - down knowledge and bottom - up statistical cues is one of the greatest strengths of our framework , and we are currently exploring how it might explain a broader range of causal inferences , including those that involve sparse data , hidden causes , and dynamical physical systems .
dp and causal power are maximum likelihood parameter estimates
both dp and causal power are maximum likelihood estimates of the causal strength parameter for c in graph 123 of fig .
123 ( a ) , but under dierent parameteriza - tions .
for any parameterization of graph 123 , the log likelihood of the data is given by
ne; c log p 123ejc;
log pdjw123; w123
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
where d is contingency data n ( e , c ) , p123 ( e|c ) is the probability distribution implied by the model , suppressing its dependence on w123 , w123 , and e;c denotes a sum over all .
( 123 ) is maximized whenever w123 and w123 can be chosen pairs of e+ , e to make the model probabilities equal to the empirical probabilities :
and c+ , c
p 123ejc; b; w123; w123 pejc; p 123ejc; b; w123; w123 pejc .
( 123 ) then reduces to p ( e+|c+ ) for the case c = c+ and to p ( e+|c
to show that dp corresponds to a maximum likelihood estimate of w123 under a linear parameterization of graph 123 , we identify w123 in eq .
( 123 ) with dp ( eq .
( 123 ) ) , and w123 with ) for the , thus satisfying the sucient conditions in eqs .
( 123 ) and ( 123 ) for w123 and case c = c w123 to be maximum likelihood estimates .
to show that causal power corresponds to a maximum likelihood estimate of w123 under a noisy - or parameterization , we follow the analogous procedure : identify w123 in eq .
( 123 ) with causal power ( eq .
( 123 ) ) , and w123 with p ( e+|c , again satisfying the conditions for w123 and w123 to be maximum likelihood c = c
then eq .
( 123 ) reduces to p ( e+|c+ ) for c = c+ and to p ( e+|c
dd , pci , and structure learning
dd is approximately proportional to the log likelihood ratio in favor of graph 123 123 for small e , and the parameterization of
this choice of parameters gives
p 123ejc; b p 123ejc; b 123 graph 123 to be p 123ejb 123 p 123ejc; b p 123ejb p 123ejc; b p 123ejc; b p 123ejb p 123ejc; b
p 123ejb 123 ; p 123ejb 123
and since log123 x x , for values of x near 123 , it follows that :
pdjgraph 123 ne; c ne; c ne; c ne; c
however , the assumptions under which this unweighted combination of counts is an appropriate measure of the evidence for a causal relationship are overly restrictive : the background probability of the eect has to be 123 , and the cause must be asymp - totically weak .
the denition of pci , which normalizes this quantity by the sum of all entries in the contingency table , cannot be motivated from the perspective of structure learning , since it removes the eect of overall sample size .
evaluating causal support
causal support is dened as the log likelihood ratio in favor of graph 123 over
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
pdjgraph 123 .
we obtain the likelihoods p ( d|graph 123 ) , p ( d|graph 123 ) by integrating out the param - eters w123 , w123
this means that each value of the parameters is assigned a prior prob - ability , and this probability is combined with the likelihood of the data given the structure and the parameters to give a joint distribution over data and parameters given the structure .
we can then sum over all values that the parameters can take on , to result in the probability of the data given the structure .
thus , if we want to compute the probability of the observed data for the structure depicted by graph 123 , we have
p 123djw123; w123; graph 123pw123; w123jgraph 123dw123 dw123
and the equivalent value for graph 123 is given by
p 123djw123; graph 123 pw123jgraph 123 dw123;
where the likelihoods p ( d|w123 , w123 , graph 123 ) , p ( d|w123 , graph 123 ) are specied by the parameterization of the graph , and the prior probabilities p ( w123 , w123|graph 123 ) , p ( w123|graph 123 ) are set a priori .
integrating over all values of the parameters penalizes structures that require more parameters , simply because the increase in the dimen - sionality of the space over which the integrals are taken is usually disproportionate to the size of the region for which the likelihood is improved .
for generative causes , p ( d|graph 123 ) is computed using the noisy - or parameter - ization , and for preventive causes , it is computed using the noisy - and - not .
we also need to dene prior probabilities p ( w123 , w123|graph 123 ) and p ( w123|graph 123 ) , to which we assign a uniform density .
because causal support depends on the full likelihood functions for both graph 123 and graph 123 , we may expect causal support to be mod - ulated by causal power , but only in interaction with other factors that determine how much of the posterior probability mass for w123 in graph 123 is bounded away from zero ( where it is pinned in graph 123 ) .
in the model for rate data , k123 and k123 are both positive real numbers , and priors for these parameters require dierent treatment .
we take a joint prior distribution in which pk123 / 123 is an uninformative prior , and p ( k123|k123 ) is
an algorithm for computing causal support
( 123 ) can be evaluated analytically .
if w123 denotes the probability of the eect occurring regardless of the presence or absence of the cause and we take a uniform prior on this quantity , we have
dw123 bne 123; ne 123;
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
where b ( r , s ) is the beta function , and n ( e+ ) is the marginal frequency of the eect .
for integers r and s , b ( r , s ) can be expressed as a function of factorials , being rs123 ! .
in general eq .
( 123 ) cannot be evaluated analytically , but it can be approx - imated simply and eciently by monte carlo simulation .
since we have uniform pri - ors on w123 and w123 , we can obtain a good approximation to p ( d|graph 123 ) by drawing m samples of w123 and w123 from a uniform distribution on ( 123 , 123 ) and computing
pdjgraph 123 123
p 123djw123i; w123i; graph 123;
where w123i and w123i are the ith sampled values of w123 and w123
we thus need only com - pute the probability of the observed scores d under this model for each sample , which can be done eciently using the counts from the contingency table .
this prob - ability can be written as
p 123djw123i; w123i; graph 123
p 123ejc; b; w123i; w123ine;c
and c+ , c
, and p123 ( e|c;w123i , w123i ) reects the cho - where the product ranges over e+ , e sen parameterizationnoisy - or for generative causes , and noisy - and - not for preventive .
as with all monte carlo simulations , the accuracy of the results im - proves as m becomes large .
for the examples presented in this paper , we used m = 123 , 123
matlab code for evaluating causal support via monte carlo simulation can be obtained by writing to the corresponding author , or from the authors
the v123 approximation
for large samples and weak causes we can approximate the value of causal sup - port with the familiar v123 test for independence .
there are both intuitive and formal reasons for the validity of the v123 approximation .
intuitively , the relationship holds because the v123 statistic is used to test for the existence of statistical dependency be - tween two variables , and c and e are dependent in graph 123 but not in graph 123
a large value of v123 indicates that the null hypothesis of independence should be reject - ed , and that graph 123 is favored .
however , v123 assumes a dierent parameterization of graph 123 from causal support , and the two will only be similar for large samples and
the formal demonstration of the relationship between v123 and causal support is as follows .
when the likelihood p ( d|w123 , w123 ) is extremely peaked ( e . g . , in the limit n 123 ) , we may replace the integrals in eq .
( 123 ) with supremums over w123 , w123
that is , the marginal likelihood essentially becomes the maximum of the likelihood , and causal support reduces to the ratio of likelihood maximaor equivalently , the dif - ference in log likelihood maximafor graph 123 and graph 123
under these circum - stances causal support reduces to the frequentist likelihood ratio statistic , equal to half of the g123 statistic ( e . g . , wickens , 123 ) .
correspondingly , pearsons v123 for
griths , j . b .
tenenbaum / cognitive psychology 123 ( 123 ) 123
pe; c pepc
ipi log pi
can be shown to approximate twice causal support by a taylor series argument : the second - order taylor series of er & thomas , 123 ) .
the v123 approximation only holds when dp is small and n is
, expanded around p = q , is 123
for learning with rates , the likelihood ratio statistic for comparing graphs 123 and
123 under the parameterization given in eq .
( 123 ) is
r nc log nc nc log nc nc nc log
which , by essentially the same argument as that given above for g123 , will approximate the value of causal support in the large sample limit .
using the taylor series argu - ment employed in the contingency case , we obtain the v123 approximation given in eq .
( 123 ) , which holds only when the dierence in rates is small .
