people routinely make sophisticated causal inferences unconsciously , ef - fortlessly , and from very little data often from just one or a few ob - servations .
we argue that these inferences can be explained as bayesian computations over a hypothesis space of causal graphical models , shaped by strong top - down prior knowledge in the form of intuitive theories .
we present two case studies of our approach , including quantitative mod - els of human causal judgments and brief comparisons with traditional bottom - up models of inference .
people are remarkably good at inferring the causal structure of a system from observations of its behavior .
like any inductive task , causal inference is an ill - posed problem : the data we see typically underdetermine the true causal structure .
this problem is worse than the usual statisticians dilemma that correlation does not imply causation .
many cases of everyday causal inference follow from just one or a few observations , where there isnt even enough data to reliably infer correlations ! this fact notwithstanding , most conventional accounts of causal inference attempt to generate hypotheses in a bottom - up fashion based on empirical correlations .
these include associationist models ( 123 ) , as well as more recent rational models that embody an explicit concept of causation ( 123 , 123 ) , and most algorithms for learning causal bayes nets ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
here we argue for an alternative top - down approach , within the causal bayes net frame - work .
in contrast to standard bottom - up approaches to structure learning ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , which aim to optimize or integrate over all possible causal models ( structures and parameters ) , we propose that people consider only a relatively constrained set of hypotheses determined by their prior knowledge of how the world works .
the allowed causal hypotheses not only form a small set of all possible causal graphs , but also instantiate specic causal mecha - nisms with constrained conditional probability tables , rather than much more general con - ditional dependence and independence relations .
the prior knowledge that generates this hypothesis space of possible causal models can be thought of as an intuitive theory , analogous to the scientic theories of classical mechan - ics or electrodynamics that generate constrained spaces of possible causal models in their domains .
following the suggestions of recent work in cognitive development ( reviewed in ( 123 ) ) , we take the existence of strong intuitive theories to be the foundation for human causal inference .
however , our view contrasts with some recent suggestions ( 123 , 123 ) that
an intuitive theory may be represented as a causal bayes net model .
rather , we consider a theory to be the underlying principles that generate the range of causal network models potentially applicable in a given domain the abstractions that allow a learner to construct and reason with appropriate causal network hypotheses about novel systems in the presence of minimal perceptual input .
given the hypothesis space generated by an intuitive theory , causal inference then follows the standard bayesian paradigm : weighing each hypothesis according to its posterior prob - ability and averaging their predictions about the system according to those weights .
the combination of bayesian causal inference with strong top - down knowledge is quite power - ful , allowing us to explain peoples very rapid inferences about model complexity in both static and temporally extended domains .
here we present two case studies of our approach , including quantitative models of human causal judgments and brief comparisons with more
123 inferring hidden causal powers
we begin with a paradigm introduced by gopnik and sobel for studying causal infer - ence in children ( 123 ) .
subjects are shown a number of blocks , along with a machine the blicket detector .
the blicket detector activates lights up and makes noise when - ever a blicket is placed on it .
some of the blocks are blickets , others are not , but their outward appearance is no guide .
subjects observe a series of trials , on each of which one or more blocks are placed on the detector and the detector activates or not .
they are then asked which blocks have the hidden causal power to activate the machine .
gopnik and sobel have demonstrated various conditions under which children successfully infer the causal status of blocks from just one or a few observations .
of particular interest is their backwards blocking condition ( 123 ) : on trial 123 ( the 123 - 123 trial ) , children observe two blocks ( ) placed on the detector and the detector activates .
most children
is placed on now say that both the detector alone and the detector activates .
now all children say that is a blicket , and is not a blicket .
intuitively , this is a kind of explaining away : seeing most say that is sufcient to activate the detector alone explains away the previously observed
are blickets .
on trial 123 ( the 123 alone trial ) ,
with detector activation .
but no edge
are on the detector;
represents the hypothesis that
gopnik et al .
( 123 ) suggest that childrens causal reasoning here may be thought of in terms , that is of learning the structure of a causal bayes net .
figure 123a shows a bayes net , consistent with childrens judgments after trial 123
variables represents whether the detector activates; the existence of an edge
has the power to turn on the detector .
we encode the is a blicket that
if block 123 is on the detector
and block 123 , and ) , likewise for if the detector is active ( else , standard bayes net learning algorithms given only the data have no way to converge on subjectss choice .
the data are not sufcient to compute the conditional independence relations required by constraint - based methods ( 123 , 123 ) , 123 nor to strongly inuence the bayesian structural score using arbitrary conditional probability tables ( 123 ) .
standard psychological models of causal strength judgment ( 123 , 123 ) , equivalent to maximum - likelihood parameter estimates for the family of bayes nets in figure 123a ( 123 ) , either predict no explaining away here or make no prediction due to insufcient data .
123gopnik et al .
( 123 ) argue that constraint - based learning could be applied here , if we supplement the observed data with large numbers of ctional observations .
however , this account does not explain why subjects make the inferences that they do from the very limited data actually observed , nor why they are justied in doing so .
nor does it generalize to the three experiments we present here .
is a blicket but
alternatively , reasoning on this task could be explained in terms of a simple logical deduc - tion .
we require as a premise the activation law : a blicket detector activates if and only if one or more blickets are placed on it .
based on the activation law and the data we can deduce that remains undetermined .
if we further assume a form of occams razor , positing the minimal number of hidden causal powers , then we can is not a blicket , as most children do .
other cases studied by gopnik et al .
can be explained similarly .
however , this deductive model cannot explain many plausible but nondemonstrative causal inferences that people make , or peoples degrees of condence in their judgments , or their ability to infer probabilistic causal relationships from noisy data ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
it also leaves mysterious the origin and form of occams razor .
in sum , neither deductive logic nor standard bayes net learning provides a satisfying account of peoples rapid causal inferences .
we now show how a bayesian structural inference based on strong top - down knowledge can explain the blicket detector judgments , as well as several proba - bilistic variants that clearly exceed the capacity of deductive accounts .
most generally , the top - down knowledge takes the form of a causal theory with at least two components : an ontology of object , attribute and event types , and a set of causal principles relating these elements .
here we treat theories only informally; we are currently developing a formal treatment using the tools of probabilistic relational logic ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
in the basic blicket detector domain , we have two kinds of objects , blocks and machines; two relevant attributes , being a blicket and being a blicket detector; and two kinds of events , a block being placed on a machine and a machine activating .
the causal principle relating these events and attributes is just the activation law introduced above .
instead of serving as a premise for deductive inference , the causal law now generates a hypothesis space of causal bayes nets for statistical inference .
this space is quite restricted : with two objects and one detector , there are only 123 consistent hypotheses ( figure 123a ) .
the are also determined by the theory .
based conditional probabilities for each hypothesis
on the activation law , otherwise it equals 123
to the set of hypotheses consistent with
causal inference then follows by bayesian updating of probabilities over in light of the observed data .
we assume independent observations so that the total likelihood , the individual - trial factors into separate terms for individual trials .
for all hypotheses in likelihoods also factor into , and we can ignore the
assuming that block positions are independent of the last two terms
is 123 for any hypothesis consistent causal structure .
the remaining term
with the data and 123 otherwise , because of the deterministic activation law .
the posterior for any data set is then simply the restriction and renormalization of the prior
backwards blocking proceeds as follows .
after the 123 - 123 trial ( be a blicket : the consistent hypotheses are
remain consistent .
the prior over causal structures
lows ( all others are zero ) :
) , at least one block must .
after the 123 alone trial , assuming that each block has some independent
of being a blicket .
the nonzero posterior probabilities are then given as fol -
finally , the
probability that block may be computed by averaging the predictions of all consistent hypotheses weighted their posterior probabilities :
123more generally , we could allow for some noise in the detector , by letting the likelihood : <;=> : ? ( =a@cb ' dfe be probabilistic rather than deterministic .
for simplicity we consider only the noise -
less case here; a low level of noise would give similar results .
is a blicket
; then , after the 123 alone trial ,
is probably not (
in comparing with human judgments in the backwards blocking paradigm , the relevant , the baseline judgments before either block is placed on
, judgments after the 123 - 123 trial; and
judgments after the 123 alone trial .
these probabilities depend only on the prior proba - bility of blickets , qualitatively matches childrens backwards block - ing behavior : after the 123 - 123 trial , both blocks are more likely than not to be blickets is denitely a blicket while
thus there is no need to posit a special
occams razor just to explain why becomes like less likely to be a blicket after the 123 alone trial this adjustment follows naturally as a rational statistical inference .
however , we do have to assume that blickets are somewhat rare ( ) .
following the 123 alone ) , because the unambiguous trial the probability of second trial explains away all the evidence for
block 123 would remain likely to be a blicket even after the 123 alone trial .
in order to test whether human causal reasoning actually embodies this bayesian form of occams razor , or instead a more qualitative rule such as the classical version , entities should not be multiplied beyond necessity , we conducted three new blicket - detector ex - periments on both adults and 123 - year - old children ( in collaboration with sobel & gopnik ) .
the rst two experiments were just like the original backwards blocking studies , except that we manipulated subjects estimates of by introducing a pretraining phase .
subjects rst saw 123 objects placed on the detector , of which either 123 , in the rare condition , or 123 , in the common condition , activated the detector .
we hypothesized that this ma - nipulation would lead subjects to set their subjective prior for blickets to either
, and thus , if guided by the bayesian occams razor , to show strong or weak
being a blicket returns to baseline (
from the rst trial .
thus for
we gave adult subjects a different cover story , involving super pencils and a superlead detector , but here we translate the results into blicket detector terms .
following the rare were picked at random from the same or common training , two new objects pile and subjects were asked three times to judge the probability that each one could activate the detector : rst , before seeing it on the detector , as a baseline; second , after a 123 - 123 trial; third , after a 123 alone trial .
probabilities were judged on a 123 - 123 scale and then rescaled to the range 123 - 123
the mean adult probability judgments and the model predictions are shown in figures 123a ( rare ) and 123b ( common ) .
wherever two objects have the same pattern of observed contin - at baseline and after the 123 - 123 trial ) , subjects mean judgments were found not to be signicantly different and were averaged together for this analysis .
in to match subjects baseline judgments; the best - tting val - tting the model , we adjusted ues were very close to the true base rates .
more interestingly , subjects judgments tracked the bayesian model over both trials and conditions .
following the 123 - 123 trial , mean ratings of both objects increased above baseline , but more so in the rare condition where the activa - tion of the detector was more surprising .
following the 123 alone trial , all subjects in both conditions were 123% sure that had the power to activate the detector , and the mean returned to baseline : low in the rare condition , but high in the common con - dition .
four - year - old children made yes / no judgments that were qualitatively similar , across both rare and common conditions ( 123 ) .
human causal inference thus appears to follow rational statistical principles , obeying the bayesian version of occams razor rather than the classical logical version .
however , an alternative explanation of our data is that subjects are simply employing a combination of logical reasoning and simple heuristics .
following the 123 alone trial , people could log - ically deduce that they have no information about the status of and then fall back on the base rate of blickets as a default , without the need for any genuinely bayesian com - putations .
to rule out this possibility , our third study tested causal explaining way in the
absence of unambiguous data that could be used to support deductive reasoning .
subjects again saw the rare pretraining , but now the critical trials involved three objects , .
after judging the baseline probability that each object could activate the detector ,
subjects saw two trials : a 123 - 123 trial , followed by a 123 - 123 trial , in which objects activated the detector together .
the bayesian hypothesis space is analogous to figure 123a , but now includes eight ( representing all possible assignments of causal powers to the three objects .
as before , the prior over causal structures
, the likelihood be written as
( under the activation law ) and 123 otherwise , and to 123 for any hypothesis consistent with may be computed by summing the is a blicket the probability that block
posterior probabilities of all consistent hypotheses , e . g . ,
figure 123c shows that the bayesian models predictions and subjects mean judgments match well except for a slight overshoot in the model .
following the 123 - 123 trial , people judge that probably activates the detector , but now with less than 123% condence .
correspond -
ingly , the probability that activates the detector increases , to a level above baseline but below 123 .
all of these pre - dicted effects are statistically signicant (
activates the detector decreases , and the probability that
, one - tailed paired t - tests ) .
these results provide strong support for our claim that rapid human inferences about causal structure can be explained as theory - guided bayesian computations .
particularly striking is the contrast between the effects of the 123 alone trial and the 123 - 123 trial .
in the former case , subjects observe unambiguously that falls completely to baseline; in the latter , they observe only a suspicious coincidence and so explaining away is not complete .
a logical deductive mechanism might generate the all - or - none explaining - away observed in the former case , while a bottom - up associative learning mechanism might generate the incomplete effect seen in the latter case , but only our top - down bayesian approach naturally explains the full spectrum of one - shot causal inferences , from uncertainty to certainty .
is a cause and their judgment about
123 causal inference in perception
our second case study argues for the importance of causal theories in a very different domain : perceiving the mechanics of collisions and vibrations .
michottes ( 123 ) studies of causal perception showed that a moving ball coming to rest next to a stationary ball would be perceived as the cause of the latters subsequent motion only if there was essentially no gap in space or time between the end of the rst balls motion and the beginning of the sec - ond balls .
the standard explanation is that people have automatic perceptual mechanisms for detecting certain kinds of physical causal relations , such as transfer of force , and these mechanisms are driven by simple bottom - up cues such as spatial and temporal proximity .
figure 123a shows data from an experiment described in ( 123 ) which might appear to support this view .
subjects viewed a computer screen depicting a long horizontal beam .
at one end of the beam was a trap door , closed at the beginning of each trial .
on each trial , a heavy , the trap door block was dropped onto the beam at some position opened and a ball ew out .
subjects were told that the block dropping on the beam might have jarred loose a latch that opens the door , and they were asked to judge ( on a how likely it was that the block dropping was the cause of the door opening .
the distance separating these two events were varied across trials .
figure 123a shows that
, and after some time
increases , the judged probability of a causal link decreases .
anderson ( 123 ) proposed that this judgment could be formalized as a bayesian inference with two alternative hypotheses : , that no causal link exists .
he suggested that the likelihood should be product of decreasing exponentials in space and time ,
, that a causal link exists , and
the door state
, the door opens if and only if the noise amplitude
sumably be constant .
this model has three free parameters the decay constants , and the prior probability plus multiplicative and additive scaling parameters to bring the model ouptuts onto the same range as the data .
figure 123c shows that this model can be adjusted to t the broad outlines of the data , but it misses the crossover interac - tion : in the data , but not the model , the typical advantage of small distances distances disappears and even reverses as this crossover may reect the presence of a much more sophisticated theory of force trans - fer than is captured by the spatiotemporal decay model .
figure 123b shows a causal graphical structure representing a simplied physical model of this situation .
the graph is a dynamic bayes net ( dbn ) , enabling inferences about the systems behavior over time .
there are four basic event types , each indexed by time can be either open ) , and once open it stays open .
there is an intrinsic source ) or closed (
in the door mechanism , which we take to be i . i . d . , zero - mean gaussian
each time step threshold ( which we take to be 123 without loss of generality ) .
the block hits the beam at ) , setting up a vibration in the door mechanism with en -
we assume this energy decreases according to an inverse power law with the distance between the block and the door , absorbing it into the parameter below . ) for simplicity , we assume that energy propagates instantaneously from the block to the door ( plausible given the speed of sound relative to the distances and times used here ) , and that there is no vibrational damping over time ) .
anderson ( 123 ) also sketches an account along these lines , although he provides no formal model .
depends strictly on the variance of the noise the bigger the variance , the sooner the door should pop open .
at issue is whether there exists a causal link between the vibration which causes the door to open
( we can always set
caused by the block dropping and the noise
, the door pops open; we denote this event as
the likelihood of
( causal link ) and
of the vibrational energy
precisely , we propose that causal inference is based on the probabilities under the two hypotheses some low intrinsic level
( no causal link ) .
the noise variance has is increased by some fraction
) analytically or through simulation .
we can then solve for the likelihoods , leaving three free parameters , we take the limit as the intrinsic noise level , plus multiplicative and additive scaling parameters , just as in the spatiotemporal decay model .
figure 123b plots the ( scaled ) posterior probabilities for the best tting parameter values .
in contrast to the spatiotemporal decay model , the dbn model captures the crossover interaction between space and time .
, which under .
that is ,
this difference between the two models is fundamental , not just an accident of the param - eter values chosen .
the spatiotemporal decay model can never produce a crossover effect .
a crossover of some form is generic in due to its functional form separable in the dbn model , because its predictions essentially follow an exponential decay function on with a decay rate that is a nonlinear function of .
other mathematical models with a nonseparable form could surely be devised to t this data as well .
the strength of our model lies in its combination of rational statistical inference and realistic physical motiva - tion .
these results suggest that whatever schema of force transfer is in peoples brains , it must embody a more complex interaction between spatial and temporal factors than is as - sumed in traditional bottom - up models of causal inference , and its functional form may be a rational consequence of a rich but implicit physical theory that underlies peoples instan - taneous percepts of causality .
it is an interesting open question whether human observers can use this knowledge only by carrying out an online simulation in parallel with their observations , or can access it in a compiled form to interpret bottom - up spatiotemporal cues without the need to conduct any explicit internal simulations .
in two case studies , we have explored how people make rapid inferences about the causal texture of their environment .
we have argued that these inferences can be explained best as bayesian computations , working over hypothesis spaces strongly constrained by top - down causal theories .
this framework allowed us to construct quantitative models of causal judgment the most accurate models to date in both domains , and in the blicket detec - tor domain , the only quantitatively predictive model to date .
our models make a number of substantive and mechanistic assumptions about aspects of the environment that are not directly accessible to human observers .
from a scientic standpoint this might seem unde - sirable; we would like to work towards models that require the fewest number of a priori assumptions .
yet we feel there is no escaping the need for powerful top - down constraints on causal inference , in the form of intuitive theories .
in ongoing work , we are beginning to study the origins of these theories themselves .
we expect that bayesian learning mecha - nisms similar to those considered here will also be useful in understanding how we acquire the ingredients of theories : abstract causal principles and ontological types .
