th wo wi we is a va so of in ac to co , bu un on to hu .
th go of th re de he is to au cr a co un kn ba wh co mi th of th wo wi we .
su a kn - ed ba wo en mu mo ef re of we in , an pr ne us of th we to su kn - ba in an pr so .
ou ap is to de a tr in ex sy th ta tw in .
th fi is an on th de th cl ( e . g . , co , pe , em , pr ) an re ( e . g . , em . by , pr . by ) of in wh cr th kn ba .
th se is a se of tr da co of la re of hy th re in of th cl an re .
gi th in , th sy le to ex in fr ot pa an hy on th we .
th pa de ou ge ap , se ma le al fo th ta , an pr in re wi a pr sy th ha cr a kn ba de un pe , co , an re pr .
th re ha be su in pa by th da hp pr un re co f1 - 12 - 12 - 12
th vi an co co in th do ar th of th au an sh no be in as re th of po , ei ex or im , of da or th
dt qu in 12
ke : in ex , ma le , wo wi we , kn
ba , we sp , te cl , re le .
th op 12
ov of th we sy 12
pr fo 12
ex te 12
le to re cl in 12
st te cl 12
ap 12
ex ev 12
fi - or te cl 12
ap 12
ex ev 12
co le 12
ap
ex ev 12
id mu - pa se 12
ap 12
ex ev ; 12
se su 12
le to re re in 12
pr re 12
le me 12
ex ev 12
le to ex te fi 12
ap 12
ex ev
re wo 12
do cl 12
in ex 12
ex se in fr hy 12
ex kn ba fr th we 12
we ag 12
co an fu wo 12
a ob mo ev di sc fr na ba 12
th op
th ri of th wo wi we ha ma it po fo yo wo to re ov 12 , 12 , 12 we pa fo yo pe pe .
th we ha al be on of th la an mo di so of in on th pl , an ma ex it to gr in th wo ' s pr kn re ov th ne de .
th re de he is mo by a si ob : al yo wo - st ca cu re ov 12 , 12 , 12 we pa , it cu un no of th we pa .
th go of ou we re pr is to au cr a co - un kn ba wh co mi th of th wo wi we .
su a " wo wi kn ba " wo co of co un as - se in sy , pr fo ( e . g . , em . by ( ma , ca ) , pr . 12 ) .
we ex su a wo wi kn ba wo ha ma us .
at a mi , it wo al mu mo ef in re by su qu su as " fi al un wi 12 mi of pi th of ev co on ja pr . " go a st fu , it wo en ne us of th we to su kn - ba in an pr so .
fo ex , it wo pr th kn - ed ba ne by a so tr ag th mi ha re su as " ma me ho an fl ar fo th up ac co . " no th in ab th ac co , ne ho , an fl is al av in hu - re fo , sp ac mu te pa on th we .
a kn ba th ma th in - fo co - un wo su a va of in kn - ba
ho mi we co an ma su a wo wi kn ba ? th th ex in th pa is th on ca de su a kn ba by ( 12 ) us ma le to cr in ex me fo ea of th de ty of kn - ed , th ( 12 ) ap th le in ex me to ex sy , pr st di fr we hy .
ea as in th kn ba ca th ca wi it a ju , in te of th we so an in ex me , th pr it ev su .
as th we ev ov ti , th cu va of kn ba fa ca be te by ve th co ev
th pa ex th ab th by pr an ev se le al - ri re to th in ex ta , an by pr th pr we - bk sy wh ha su bu up a kn ba co se th as ab co sc de us th le in ex .
we be by br su th ca of th we sy in th ne se .
th su se co in de th re as un ou ap .
th re se pr ou ex te , se le al - ri an ex re fo th va in ex ta , re wo ,
( " fu of cs ho pa
in . of : ji , to
re : we pr
! co . ta . by : fu , of cs , . . .
fu of cs ho pa
ji ' s ho pa
i te se co : - fu of cs .
my re in
in we ag
fi 12 : th in an ou of th we kb sy .
th to pa of th fi sh an on th de th cl an re of in .
th bo pa sh tw we pa id as tr ex of th cl co an fa .
to , th tw pa al co a tr ex fo th re in . of an co . ta . by .
gi th on an a se of tr da , we le to in ad we pa an hy to ad ne in to th kn ba , su as th sh in th mi of th fi .
ov of th we sy
th we sy is fi tr to ex in of th de ty , an is th al to br ne we si in or to au po a kn ba wi ne as .
wh tr th sy , th us mu pr tw in :
a sp of th cl an re of in .
th is th on th de th vo fo th ta kn ba .
an ex of su an on is pr in th to ha of fi 12
th pa on de a hi of cl in pe , st , re . pr , co , et .
it al de re be th cl su as ad . of ( wh re an in of a st to th in of fa wh ar th ad of th gi st ) .
th on co th in ve of th kn ba .
tr ex th de in of th on cl an re .
fo ex , th tw we pa sh at th bo of fi 12 re in of co an fa cl .
fu , th pa of pa re an in of th re co . ta . by ( i . e . , th co . ta . by ji in fu -
gi su an on an a se of tr ex , th we sy le ge pr fo ex ne in of th cl an re fr th we .
in th cu pr , th is ac by le to cl ar we pa an hy pa ac to th cl an re de by th on .
wh ex th we , th we sy st fr a gi in ur an ex pa us a br - fi se to fo li .
ea ex pa is ex , us le cl de , to se if it re a me of on of th on cl .
if a pa is a cl me , an en re th pa is pl in th kn ba , an th on re fo th pa ar in ba on le ru an th kn lo st of th we .
if a pa is no a cl me , th se is tr , an li fr th pa ar no fo .
in on su cr ex th sy wa gi a tr se of ap 12 , 12 we pa an 12 , 12 we - pa pa ta fr th co sc de we si at fo un ( co , un of te at au , un of wa , an un of wi ) .
th tr ex we ha la ac to th on sh in fi 12
th sy wa th al to ex th we si of a fi co sc de ( at ca me un ) , an to ad ne kn ba en ba on in ex fr th ne we si .
tw ne in ad by th sy to it kn ba , as a re of br th ne un we si , ar sh in fi 12
th to in de a ne fa ad to th kn ba , as a re of ex a we pa th th sy cl in th ca .
as a re , th sy cr th ne fa in in th kn ba , an ex se re in th in .
fo ex , it de ( co - re ) th na of th fa me , a co ta by th fa me , an th
( na " da ga " )
( me . of . pr ( +b - sp *d - ga *r - me
fi 12 : tw of th en au ex fr th cm co sc de we si af tr on fo ot un co sc si .
th en ar ad as ne in of fa an pr to th kn ba sh in fi 12
st fa pe re . pr co de ov
ta 12 : cl in re ac wh ex cm co sc de we si , af tr on co sc de at fo ot un .
in of th pr . of re fo th fa me : *a - mi , *c - cs - cg - s1 - sy - h1 - pa , an *a - pr .
th th pr ar th in of th re . pr cl , ex fr ot we pa .
th de of on of th , th *a - pr je , is sh at th bo of th
ho ac is th sy in ex su in ? in th ex , th sy vi 12 we pa at th ne ca me si , an as a re ad 12 ne cl in to it kn ba .
th fr of co ex in is su in ta 12
fo ex , th ta in th th sy cr 12 ne kn ba in of th cl co .
of th 12 ne in , 12 in fa re co an th ot 12 di no .
it ac in ex re in is su in a si fa in ta 12
no th si we do ' t ha a la fo al th pa an re at ca me , we ha no wa of ca co re fo th ta .
fi 12 sh th in di by th sy as it br .
no th di sh th we pa th is cu be vi ( to ri ) , an th in ex by th sy fr th we pa ( mi le ) .
th in al co a co pa
12 tt kt ^1 fl -
ed vt go bo op di wi
t - ^ a t w ( op i fl ; fm
! i ho
wh ' s he ? ) wh ' s co ? - ue ne sp ie su
co : ;c |b |s ? p ( qu
st ? vf w> / j ' vw . e# . <s , ec / ft
av l .
bl as pr of co sc
de of co sc ca me un pi pa 12 - 12
of : we 12 te : ( 12 ) 12 - 12
me ha ht : ff , eb , c
as *s fa wi se - 12
my me re ea in ar ma le th , ap al , an on - li al .
i al am wo on .
a gr - al st - li do .
i wa re pr co co - ch fo co ' 12 ( th ni an co on co l ea th ) , an on th pr gr c om fo so ' 12 ( th ei an ac - si sy on di hi cu u . en
fa fc 12 co fo : 12 12 ' to 12
fi 12 : th we in to th we kb sy .
th up le pa se as a co pa .
th mi le pa de th cu ac of th we kb sy , an th lo le pa su th se .
th up ri pa sh th pa cu be pr , an th lo ri pa pr a me fo br th ex kn ba .
in . of me . of .
pr de . of ov
ta 12 : re in re ac wh ex cm co sc de we si , af tr on co sc de at fo ot un .
th al th us to in wi th sy ( to le ) , an to br th gr kn ba ( bo ri ) .
pr fo
as su in th pr se , th we sy pr ex su fo ou th th a sy ca be tr to au po a kn ba by br we hy .
la se de in de th le al us by th we sy .
in th se , we co th pr pr fo an th re as th un ou cu ap .
to su , we ar in in th fo ge pr :
- an on th de th cl ( e . g . , pe ) an re ( e . g . , in . of )
- tr ex fr th we th de in of th cl an re -
- ge pr ca of ex ad in of th cl an
re by br th re of th we .
no th we do no ne ex ne in fo al of th cl an re in th on .
fo ex , ou on ma ha a cl co al wi in fo al of th co in th wo .
in th ca , si we al kn al in , we do no ne to le pr to re ne on .
to pu th pr of le to ex in fr th we , we mu ma so as ab th ty of kn to be ex fr th we , an th wa in wh th kn is re in hy on th we .
th as ar :
as ab ho cl in ar de on th we .
we as th ea in of an on cl is re by on or mo co se of hy on th we .
by " co se of hy " we me ei a si we pa , or a co st of te wi a we pa , or a co of se we pa in by hy .
fo ex , an in of a pe mi be de by a si pa ( th pe ' s ho pa ) , or by a re to th pe in a st of te wi an ar we pa , or by a co of in we pa th jo de th pe .
as ab ho re in ar de on th we .
co an ar - bi in r ( a , b ) of a re r .
we as th ea in of a re is re on th we in on of th wa .
fi , th in r ( a , b ) ma be re by a se of hy th co th se re a to th se re b .
fo ex , th bo of fi 12 sh tw hy th co th se re ji wi th se re fu - ta . of . cs .
th hy re th re in . of ( fu . of . cs , ji ) .
se , th in r ( a , b ) ma al be re by a co se of te re a th co th se th re b .
fo ex - pl , th re in re . of ( ji , hu . co . in ) is re in fi 12 by th fa th ji ' s ho pa co th ph " hu co in - te " in a pa co .
fi , th in r ( a , b ) ma be re by th fa th th hy se fo a sa so le mo fo re to b .
fo ex , we mi ex th in re . of ( ji , ar . in ) by cl ji ' s pa us a st mo of th wo ty fo in pa de ai re .
in ad to th as ab th ma be we hy an th on , we ma se si as in ou in re re in th pa .
we pl to re th fo as in th fu as ou re pr .
we as in th pa th ea cl in is re by a si we pa ( e . g . , a pe is re by th ho pa ) .
if an in ha to be de by mu pa ( e . g . , if a pe is de by th ho pa pl a co of ne pa de th pu , ho , et . ) , ou cu sy is tr to cl on th pr ho pa as th de of th pe , an to ig th ne af pa .
al , if an in ha to be de by a te fr , ou sy do no cu cr a kn ba in fo th .
it do , ho , ex ce re va fr su te fr ( e . g . , th na of th pe , as il in fi 12 ) .
we as th ea cl in is re by a si co se of hy .
in ot wo , if th sy en tw no - co we pa th re in of th sa cl , it cr tw di in of th cl in it kn ba .
wh th as wi of be sa ( e . g . , tw di pe ho pa ty re tw di pe ) , th ar cl
ex ( e . g . , th ar ma di we pa de el ) .
ov th " mu el pr " wi re me th hy eq be in di in .
we as th al re ar tw - pl re th is , ' ea re ha on tw ar .
we be th it wi be fa ea to re th as .
gi th pr de an ou cu se of as , we vi th fo as th th pr le ta th ar in in ex kn - ba in fr th we :
re cl in by cl bo of hy .
se 12 lo at th pr , us bo st an re le te .
it al ex ho to re ou as ab cl in be re by si we
re re in by cl ch of hy .
se 12 in -
ga a re le so to th pr .
re cl an re in by ex sm fi of te fr we
se 12 lo at th ta an al us a re le ap .
ex te
al ex re in th pa ar ba on th on fo co sc de sh in fi 12
th on in th cl de , fa , st , st , re . pr , an co .
ou we pa cl ex al us th cl ot as th la fo we pa th fa in no of th on cl .
ea on cl ha an as se of sl , or re , th ex am in of th cl an ot cl in in th on .
fo ex , th co cl ha a sl ca in . of th re co to pe .
we as tw da se fo th ex re he .
th fi is a se of pa an hy dr fr fo cs de : un of te at au , co un , un of wa , an un of wi .
th se is a se of pa fr nu ot co sc de .
th fo - de se in 12 , 12 pa an 12 , 12 hy in th .
th se se in 12 , 12 ad pa .
th pa fo mo of th cl in ou da se we co us " in " pa fo ou cl of in ( e . g . , a pa th ha hy to al of th st in a de ) , so la th da wa st .
af ga th in se of pa , we th co ev pa th wa bo ( i ) po to by a hy
12 th da se ar pu av at ht : / / ww .
ed / af s / cs .
ed / pr / th - 12 /
in th in se , an ( ii ) fr th sa un as th pa po to it .
mo of th pa ga in th se st we la as ot .
in ad to la pa , we al ha - la re in .
ea of th re in co of a pa of pa co to th cl in in in th re .
fo ex , an in of th in . of re co of a co ho pa an a pe ho pa .
ou da se of re in co 12 in . of in , 12 me . of . pr in , an 12 me . of . de in .
th in ar al fr th fo - de se .
fi , we al la th na of th ow of pa in th pe cl .
th wa do au by ta an te fr in th pe ' s ho pa th ma th na as it ap in th hy po to th pa fr th in pa .
th ma he we co , fa pr ov re .
co , we be th , al so na oc we mi , th we no fa po .
fr 12 pe pa , th pr yi 12 di na oc .
th in ar al fr th fo - de se as we .
fo al of th su ex in th pa , we us a fo - fo cr - va me to ev ou al .
we co fo ru in wh we tr cl us da fr th of th un in ou da se ( pl th se se of pa wh ap ) , an te th cl us da fr th re un .
on ea it we ho ou a di un fo th te se .
le to re cl in
th fi ta fo ou sy is to id ne in of on cl fr th te so on th we .
in th se we ad th ca in wh cl in ar re - se by we pa fo ex , a gi in of th st cl is re by th st ' s ho pa .
in th fi pa of th se we di a st ba - of - wo ap to cl - fy we pa .
we us th me al wi th di re of pa .
in th se pa of th se we di le fi - or ru to cl we pa .
th ap is ap in th fi - or ru ca de pa cl us a ri de - sc of th lo gr st ar th pa .
fi , we ev th ef of co th pr ma by al fo of th cl .
st te cl
in th se we co cl we pa us st me .
ou ap is si to a gr bo of wo in te cl th in us a so - ca ba of wo or un re .
ho , we ap ou me in no wa th ta ad of th re of hy .
sp , we tr th in cl
wh us di re fo pa cl :
fu - te : th wo th oc an in th pa ,
ti / he : th wo th oc in th ti an ht he of th pa ,
hy : th wo th oc in hy ( i . e . , th wo in th an te ) th
po to th pa .
ou ap in bu a pr mo of ea cl us la tr da , an th cl ne se pa by se th cl th is mo pr gi th ev of wo de th ne pa .
th me th we us fo cl we pa is na ba , wi mi mo ba on ku - le di .
gi a do d to cl , we ca a sc fo ea cl c as fo :
wh n is th nu of wo in d , t is th si of th vo , an w ( is th tt wo in th vo .
pr ( wi ) th re th pr of dr to , - gi a do fr cl c , an pr ( wi ) re th fr of oc of w ( in do d .
th cl pr by th me fo a gi do is si th cl wi th gr sc .
th me ma ex th sa cl as na ba , bu pr cl sc th ar le ex .
be we ex na ba in ap 12 we de ou mo to it .
th pr mo we us ig th se in wh th wo oc .
th mo ar of ca un or ba - of - wo mo be th ar ba on st ab si wo in is .
si th un mo na as th th pr of ea wo in a do is co in of al ot wo in th th do gi it cl , th ap , wh us wi ba ru is of ca na ba .
th in as - su is cl fa , an it pr ob in cl - me pr .
ho , it is of th ca th ev wh th as do no ho an na ba pr in pr es , it st is ab to cl te ex wi hi
th ar tw co ap to na ba te cl .
on , th mu - va be mo , is a ba ne wi no de be wo an bi wo co th do is co to be th " ev " an th wo ar fe
of ev .
th ot ap , th mu mo , is a un la mo wi in wo co th wo ar co to " ev " an th do is co of a co of th ev .
we us th se ap , si it ha be fo to ou - pe th fi on se da se ( 12 ) .
we fo na ba fo te cl as fo .
gi a se of cl c = ( ci , . . . c| ) an a do co of n wo , ( wi , w1 , . . . wn ) , we cl th do as a me of th cl , c , th is mo pr , gi th wo in th do :
c = ar ( c| , . . . , t ( ;n )
we tr pr ( c| , . . . , wn ) in a co ex by re ap ba ru to th in wo in pr ( c| , . . . , wn ) ( eq .
12 ) an as th wo ar in - pe of ea ot ( eq .
we al dr th de ( eq .
12 ) , si th te is a co ac al cl .
pr ( c\ , . . . , wn ) = pr ) ) . ) . - ; r ~ ( 12 )
" pr ( iu , - |c ) , . , - pr ( c ) il p / \ ( 12 )
oc pr ( c ) np ) ( 12 )
th mo th tr th tr fo of na ba in th fo
we us ( sh in eq 12 ) ar de in ap 12
es wo pr
a ke st in im na ba is es th wo pr , pr ( to , - |c ) .
to ma ou pr es mo ro wi re to in en wo , we us a sm me to mo th pr th wo ha be ob by si ev co .
on im ef of sm is th it av as pr va of ze to wo th do no oc in th tr da fo a pa cl .
si na ba in ta a pr of wo pr , a si ze fo a cl wo pr th cl fr be th ma ev if th ar ma ot wo th st in th cl .
ra th sm wi th co la es ( i . e . , ad on to al th wo co fo a cl ) , we us wi - be sm ( 12 ) , wh we ha fo to pe be on se da se .
wi - be se pr ( to , - |c )
wh at ( iw , - , c ) is th co of th nu of ti wo wi oc in th tr da fo
cl c , tc is th to nu of un wo in cl c , an t is th to nu of un wo ac al cl .
an im im is is de up th vo si to be us fo th pr do .
we ha fo em th we ge sl mo ac cl wh us a re vo si .
th we li ou vo to 12 wo in al of ou ex .
th vo is se by ra wo ac to th av mu in wi re to th cl la .
we wr w ( fo a ra va in wh wo to , - is pr or ab in a do , an wr v ( ( wu ^w ) fo th va it ta on .
we wr c fo a ra va ta va of al th cl la , c <e c .
th , av mu in is
i ( c; ) = h ( c ) - h ( c\ ) ( 12 ) = - ep ( c ) lo ( pr ( c ) ) ( 12 )
- - e pr ( 12 ) ep ) lo ( pr ( ck ) ) ( 12 )
e er f^ . ) ( io )
th fe se me ha be fo to pe be am se al
( 12 ) , an ha be us in ma te cl st ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
ex ev
we ev ou me us th cr - va me de in se 12
on ea it of th cr - va ru , we tr a cl fo ea of th pa re - se de at th be of th se : fu - te , ti / he , an hy .
ta 12 sh th re co ma ( su ov th fo te se ) fo th fu - te cl .
ea co of th ma re on cl an sh ho th in of th cl ar cl .
ea ro re th in th ar pr to be to a gi cl , an sh th tr cl of th in .
th ta il se in re .
fi , no th fo mo cl , ou cl ar qu ac .
fo ex , 12 of th co an 12 of th fa in ar co cl .
th no ex to th tr is th ot cl on 12 of th in be to th cl ar co cl .
we di th re in mo de be .
a se in - in re is th ma of th re mi ma by th cl in co di su of pe .
fo ex , al on 12 of th st in ar co as to th st ca , 12 of th ar co cl in th mo ge cl of pe .
as th re su , no al mi ar eq ha ev wh we fa to co cl an in in on of th le cl in ou on , we
12 - > o <u . c u k .
12 12 12 12 12 12
v - 12 o
ta 12 : a co ma sh fu - te cl re co ac al of th fo - un te ru .
th ov co an ac ar al sh .
ca st ma ma co in ab th in if we co as it to a mo
th lo le of cl ac fo th ot cl is la ex by th na of th cl .
re fr se 12 th th in of th cl we co by ga pa th we on hy aw fr th in in th ot si cl .
fo th re , ma of th in of th ot cl ha co , an he wo st , ve si to in in on of th " co " cl .
fo ex , wh th ho pa fo a co wi be to th co cl , " se " pa fo th co , su as a pa de re as , wi be to th ot cl .
al th co of ma of th pa in th ot cl mi su th th pr be in on of th co cl , ou mo fo no in th in th cl is th fo .
wh ou sy is br th we an ad ne in to th kn ba , we wa to en th we do no ad mu in th co to th sa re - wo ob .
fo ex , we sh no ad tw ne in to th kn ba wh we en a co ho pa an it se pa li th re as .
be of th re , we ha fr ou pa cl ta as on of co re th " pr " pa fo th cl of in .
as ta 12 in , th is a ve di ta , bu as we wi sh sh , by co se so of ev fo ea pa , it is on we ca pe wi hi ac .
on wa to ob in in th le cl is to as wh wo co mo hi to th qu sc ( d ) fo ea cl .
to me th , we us on of ou
ta 12 : th to te mo hi we wo .
fo ea cl , th ta sh th te wo th ar mo hi we by on of ou le fu - te mo .
th we sh re th we lo - od ra of th wo gi th cl .
th sy d is us to re an ar di .
fo ex , th to wo sh fo th fa cl , dd , re an fo - di to ( su as th oc in a ph nu ) .
tr se to ca
fo ea wo wi an cl c .
fi 12 sh th te wo fo ea cl th ha th gr va of th we lo - od ra .
as th ta il , mo of th hi we wo ar in pr fo th cl .
th ex to th ge - iz ar mo fr th st cl , fo wh th is li tr da , an th ot cl , wh re an ex di se of pa .
an in re il by th ta is th ma wo wh ar co - ti in in st li ar hi we by ou mo .
fo ex , th wo my , me , an am ar ty st - li wo bu th ar am th to te wo fo th st cl .
al th ar co wo , th ar cl pr of th st cl si fi - pe pr an ve co do no ap fr on pa in th ot cl .
th re su th it is ad to se a vo in a do sp wa ( as we di us mu in ) , in of us a ge pu
on ap to im cl ac is to li th pr ma by th cl to ju th pr in wh th ar mo co .
th is ea ac wi ou me be th qu sc ( d ) ca wh cl a pa ca be ta as a me of th co in th cl .
by se a mi th on th co , we ca se a po th sa so co in or to ob in ac .
gi ou go of au ex kn ba in fr th we , it is de to be wi a hi - ac cl , ev if we ne to li co to on 12 of th 12 , 12 , 12 pa av on th we .
th ef of tr of co fo ac us ou fu - te cl is sh in fi 12
th ho ax on th pl re co : th pe of pa fo a gi cl th ar co cl as be to th cl .
th ve ax re ac : th pe of pa cl in a gi cl th ar ac me of th cl .
to un th re , co , fo ex , th cl st .
as th re in ta 12 sh , wh th cl pr th a pa be to th st cl th ar co 12 of th ti .
th ri po on th st cu in th ta 12 co to th po .
as we ra th co th fo th cl , ho , th ac of ou pr ri .
fo ex , at a co of 12 , ac re a le of 12 .
so fa , we ha di th re on fo th fu - te cl .
fi 12 an 12 sh th ac / co cu fo th hy an ti / he cl , re .
as be , th cu sh th ag re fo al fo te se in ou cr - va
12 a st li is a se of wo th ar re fr do be th ar pr by an in - re or te - cl sy .
th ar st st li wh in wo ge th to co li in ab th do to .
re .
pr *
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo fu - te cl .
pr wi ea cl ar or ac to th co .
ea cu sh th be of th cl as a th on th co is va .
th z - ax re th pe of pa fo a gi cl th ar co cl be to th cl .
th j / - ax re th pe of pa as to a gi cl th ac me of th cl .
12 12 12
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo hy cl .
>> i 12
uu 12 12 12 12
st - +
12 : l k .
\ " el . .
*
\ \ " b ,
b - ^ - - b - q .
' * o n n " ^^ , .
i1 ^ v - v - $t * x . . .
\ ia
" x - x \
x \ \
; < 12 12 12 12 12
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo ti / he cl .
as we di ea , on of th as th di le in hy fr le in fl - te do is th hy pr mu , so in so of ev fo th me of a gi pi of te .
as we hy , th re in fi 12 an 12 in th th mu so of ev ca be po ex to ma be pr .
co , fo ex , th ac of th de pr ma by th hy cl .
wh th fu - te cl ar on 12 ac at fu co , th hy - pe cl ar 12 ac .
mo , th de ac / co cu fo th hy cl is un su to th cu fo th fu - te cl .
th re fo th di in ac is th al ou da se in fe de pa fr wh to ge , it in ma hy th po to de pa .
th th hy cl ha re la sa of da fr wh to le th wo st of hy th po to de pa , an si th ha a fa la nu of hy on wh to ba th pr wh cl a pa af
th ti / he cl al il ca in wh us a hy - ba re - se fo pa cl ca re in be pr ac th si us a fl - te re .
th ti / he cl ' cu fo bo th fa an re - se . pr cl , fo ex , ar be th th co cu fo th fu - te cl at co le of 12 an le .
on ex fo th re is th ti an he pr so of a su of a gi pa an th te to co wo th ar hi pr of th pa ' s cl .
fi - or te cl
as no pr , th hy st of th we ca be th of as a gr in wh we pa ar th no of th gr an hy ar th ed .
th me fo cl we pa th we di in th pr se co th wo in ei a si no of th gr or in a se of ed im on th sa no .
ho , th me do no al us to le mo th ta in ac su fe as th pa of co ar a gi pa , or th wo oc in ne pa .
it mi be pr to le , fo ex , a ru of th fo " a pa is a co ho pa if it co th wo te an ta an is li to a pa th co th wo as . " ru of th ty , th ar ab to re ge ch of a gr , re a fi - or re .
in th se , we co th ta of le to cl pa us a le th is ab to in fi - or ru .
th le al th we us in th se is qu ' s fo al ( 12 , 12 ) .
fo is a gr co al fo le fu - fr ho cl
fo in ea ho cl by be wi an em ta an us a hi - cl se to ad li to th ta un th cl co on ( mo ) po in .
th ev fu us fo th hi - cl se is an in - th me .
th re we pr to th le al co of th fo ba -
ha ? ( pa ) : th se of re in wh wo oc in wh pa .
ea bo re in th pa in wh th wo wo oc .
th vo fo th se in st wo th ha at le 12 oc bu th do no oc in mo th 12 of th tr - se pa .
th tw co we se wi th in of as a vo of re si th wo li in th wo wi th mo di po .
we ha be 12 an 12 of th pr in ea of th cr - va ru .
li ( pa , pa ) : th re re th hy th in th pa in th da se .
we ap fo to le a se se of cl fo si of th se cl co in th pr se
we do no le a de of th ot cl , bu in tr it as a de cl .
12 us th te cl an ru in
12 re to th pr of he re wo to th ro fo .
fo ex th wo
co , co an co wo be st to th ro co .
12 is a ve of fo sp de fo mu - cl pr su as ou .
we fo , ho ,
th th in bi of th ve is no we su to ou pa ta .
wh cl te in , we ca an as me of co al wi ea pr .
we ca th co va fo tw re .
fi , we us th to re co pr fr ou si in le ru se .
se , we ar in in me ho th ac of ou le ru se va as we ad
we us th fo pr to ca th co of ea of ou pr .
fi , we es th er ra of ea of ou le cl by ca an m - es ( 12 ) ( wi m = 12 ) of th ru ' s er ov th tr ex .
we th us th sc to so th cl in or of de ac . 12 to in th pr of ou si in le cl , we us th fo pr :
if no cl ha a ru th ma th gi pa , th we pr ot wi
if on on cl ha a ma ru , th we pr th as cl wi co - fi co to th ru ' s sc .
th ot cl is pr wi co of on mi th sc .
if mo th on cl ha a ma ru fo th gi ex , th we pr ea cl wi co eq to th sc of it be ma ru di by th to nu of cl th ha ma ru .
th ot cl is pr wi a co va th wo ma th to co su to on .
ex ev
fo th ex re he , we us re 12 of fo wi th de se .
as wi th ex in se 12 , we us a fo - fo cr - va me .
th re ac / co pl fo ea cl is sh in fi 12
co th re to th in fi 12 , on ca se th al th fi - or ru ge pr lo co th th st cl , th pr su ac fo se cl .
fi 12 sh th of th ru le by fo in it va cr - va ru .
th le ru fo co sh he il th po of a fi - or re .
th ru cl a pa as th ho pa fo a co if it pa th gr of te :
th pa ha th wo in , bu do ' t ha th wo go .
12 ch do no af th cl ma by a le se of cl .
it af on ou
co as wi ea pr .
12 th pa , we us a pr - li sy fo le ru .
th sy : - re th im op , wi th he of th ru on th le si of th op an th bo on th ri si .
co , su as th na of ou on cl an re , st wi lo le .
va st wi up le .
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo fo pa cl .
th pa co a hy to a pa wh do no co an hy to
th li pa co th wo as .
th ru ca be su as fo :
pr th a pa is a co ho pa if it ha th wo in an is li to a le pa wh ta ab as .
th sa ru le fo th st cl co fr th cr - va ru le pa fr th un of wa ou of th tr se .
no th th ru re to a pa ( bo to th va b ) th ha tw co fi na on it ( pa an ja , th st ve of ja ) .
th ru ( an si ru le wi th ot th tr se ) il th fo ha le to ex " st di " pa in or to id st ho pa .
fo ex , wh wa is th te se , al of th co ap of th ru bi b to a pa en " gr st at uw cs " .
th fa ru wi no cl a pa as fa un th is a pa co th st va of fa th po in th gi pa .
al th of th ru sh ho we - pa cl is di fr or te cl in th ne pa ma pr st ev ab th cl of a gi pa .
le me wh ca us th in ef sh pe be th st te in th do .
st ( a ) : - no ( ha . cf ( a ) ) , no ( ha ( a ) ) , li ( b , a ) , ha ' am ( b ) , ba . pa ( b ) , no ( ha ( b ) ) .
tr se : 12 po , 12 ne te se : 12 po , 12 ne
fa ( a ) : - ha / es ( a ) , ha / ? ( a ) , li ( b , a ) , ha / ac ( b ) .
tr se : 12 po , 12 ne te se : 12 po , 12 ne
co ( a ) : - ha ( a ) , no ( ha ( a ) ) , li ( a , b ) , no ( li ( b , _l ) ) , ha - as ( b ) .
tr se : 12 po , 12 ne te se : 12 po , 12 ne
fi 12 : a fe of th ru le by fo fo cl pa .
co le
th pr ex sh th th be re fo pa cl de on th cl .
th ob su th it mi be pr to co th pr ma by ou fo cl .
in th se , we de an ev a si ap to
th me th we em fo co th pr of ou cl ta ad of th fa th ea cl pr a me of co al wi ea pr .
th me we us is a si vo sc th us co va as ti - br .
th is , gi th pr ma by ou fo cl fo a gi we pa , we pr th cl th ha a pl of th vo ma by th in cl , if th is on .
if no cl ha a pl , th we se th cl as wi th hi co
in or to en th th co me ou by ou di cl ar co , we ca ea cl by in a ma fr it ou sc to th pr of a pr be co .
we do th by si bi th sc pr by ea cl fo a gi cl , an th me th tr - se ac of th sc th fa in ea bi .
ex ev
fi 12 sh th ac / co cu fo th vo pr .
by co th fi to th ac / co cu fo th fu - te cl sh in fi 12 on ca se th , in ge , mo ac pr ar ac by co ev ot th fu - te wh cl pa .
at hi le of co , th vo cl ar mo ac th th fu - te cl fo th co an de cl .
ad - ti , th re . pr pr ma by th vo cl ar si mo ac th th fu - te pr , al th co at by th vo cl is no as go .
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo co cl wi vo si of 12 wo .
al fi 12 in th pr ac is he in so ca by co - bi mu cl , th re of th ex ar so di .
th ac / co cu fo th vo cl ar no un be th th co - sp cu of th co cl .
id , we wo li th ac / co cu fo ea cl to be as go or be th th be co cu am th
we be th th re sh in fi 12 ar di be ou me fo co th pr of mu cl is ov si .
sp , we be th th me fa to ac ma cl sc to es ac , an th th co fu of do no " li " to th ri cl .
in , we ha ob th th vo me pe mu be wh ou st cl ar li to ve sm vo .
fi 12 sh th ac / co cu fo vo wh we us st cl tr wi a vo si of 12 wo .
in co th fi to ou ba fu - te cl ( fi 12 ) , on ca se th th cu pr by th sm - vo vo me ar ge su to th fu - te cl cu .
mo , th sm - vo vo cl ac th re us co cl th we no as ac as th 12 - wo vo co .
in fu wo , we pl to tr ne ne to pe th co fu .
we hy th su a co me wi be be ab to ex th sp ar of ex ex by ou in cl .
12 12 12
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo co cl wi vo si of 12 wo .
id mu - pa se
as di in se 12 , ou re as is th ea cl in in th kn ba co to so co se of hy on th we .
th al , fo ex , th a pa st mi be re on th we by a si we pa , or by a cl of in we pa ce ar th ho pa .
in th ex re th fa , we ha ef ma a si as : th ea in is re by a si we pa .
in fa , in la ou tr da , we en a va of st ( an in of ot on cl ) th we de by a se in we pa ra th a si pa .
in th ca we ha la th pr ho pa as st , an la an in pa as wi th sa st as ot .
to re th si as we mu de me fo id se of in pa th re a si kn ba in .
in th se we pr a se of ha - wr he th id gr of re pa an al id th " pr " ho pa in th gr .
we sh he th cl ac in th pr se is si im wh th he ar us to gr pa an to au as th la ot to no - pr pa , to fi th as we ma wh ha la th da .
co th we pa of a pr fa me .
sh ha a ma pa ( ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / in . ht ) , a pa li he pu ( ht : / / ww . my .
ed / us / jd / pu . ht ) , an a pa de he re in ( ht : / / ww .
my . ed / us / jd / wo / re . ht ) .
ou wo as ab en - we re - la in th we sh re th th pa co to a si en , id th be re pa fo th en , cl th pa as a fa , an cl - si th re of th pa as ot .
we ac th by so tw su : gr re pa to , an id th mo re pa of a gr .
sp ( 12 ) id re in ur st an na , an pr se he fo di pa gr an id re ho pa .
we us a si , sl ex , ap .
in an id sc , on co im tr to le th he fr ex .
in th fo ex we ha in pr th ru by ha .
th mo ob gr th ca be ex fr a ur ar ba on di - to st pr .
ke di co of a ur in a lo gr of we pa in an en .
fo ex , gi th ur ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / re . ht , we ca de th ex of an en co to th ur pr ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / , be th ke / us / in th pe di po ty in th pr of a pe en in th di sp de by jd .
ot ty pe pr ma ar / fa / , / pe / , / ho / , an / pr / .
th ul pr ma ( in un - st gl pa ) ar / cs ? ? ? / , / ww / an / ~ * / , th fi be a ty in of a co , an th la be a ty - ca in of th us of a pe or or .
ou al gr ur by th lo di pr th ma on of th gi pa .
in th ev th no pa ma , th en di pr is us fo th gr .
in ou ex ab , th th ur wo ea ha th en pr as ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / , an th wo be gr to .
ap th gr he re in se of we pa th ap a si - gl on en .
fr th se , we id th si pr pa th is mo re of th en .
us th co to th " ho pa " of th en - ti .
th , we ta an pa th ha th fi pa " in . ht " , " ho . ht " , " ho . ht " , or " cs ? ? ? . ht " an la it th pr pa .
ad , an pa in wh th co ur is th di pr , ( fo ex , th ur ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / ) or on in wh th fi ma th di ab it ( as in ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / jd . ht ) is al id as a pr pa .
al pa th do no ma an of th pa in a gr , ar cl au as ot .
in th ev th no pa in a gr ma an of th he , th pa wi th hi ( no - ot ) cl co is la th pr pa .
in ou ex - pl , ht : / / ww . my . ed / us / jd / in . ht wo be cl as fa ( as ou cl wa co ) , an th ot pa wo be cl as ot re of th
, p* 12 12 12
\ h ' 12 \ h ^
\ ~ +\ co -
i< ~ *^ x . \ \ st - + - - .
. b - b x\ * fa - q -
' et ' ' \ ^^ - re . pr *
' ba ' \^ de - * ' " " ej - .
\ . b ^^ st - *
. x " " ' " " x x\ \
v ' ' x \ x * \ \
i i i i
12 12 12
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo th fu - te cl af th ap of ur he .
ex ev
th im of us th ur he wi th or fu - te pa cl is su - ri in fi 12
co th cu to fi 12 on ca se th st in in ac fo an gi le of co ac al cl .
al no so de in to co .
th oc be so pa th we pr co cl ha be mi as be " se " pa
se su
th se fo on th ta of re cl in by we pa cl .
we sh th , be hy pr mu re in , we pa ca be cl us se so of in : th fu te of pa , th te in ti an he , th te as wi hy , te in ne pa , an th fi or re in ur .
ou ex su th no of th ap al is su fo re in of on cl wi hi ac .
in th ex de in se 12 , we us bo fu - te cl an ur he .
we al sh in th se th on pr li of re is to co th pr of mu cl th us di so of ev .
le to re re in
in th pr se we di th ta of le to ex in of on cl fr th we .
ou ap to th ta as th th cl in of in ar re by wh we pa or by cl of we pa .
in th se , we di - cu th ta of le to re re of in th ex am ex cl in .
th hy un ou ap is th re am cl in ar of re by hy pa in th we .
th , th ta of le to re in of su re in in ru th ch th pr pa of th re .
fo ex , an in of th in . of re mi be re by a hy di fr th ho pa of a co to th ho pa of th in , as de by th fo ru :
in ( a , b ) : - co ( a ) , pe ( b ) , li ( a , b ) .
he , th va a an b re we pa , th li co ( b ) an pe ( a ) re - re th pr cl of th pa , an th li li ( a , b ) te fo th ex of a hy fr pa a to pa b .
pr re
be th ta in di hy pa of un an va si , we em a le me th us a fi - or re fo it le ru .
sp - ic , th al we ha de fo th ta is ba on th fo al ( 12 , 12 ) wh we us fo pa cl in se 12 .
we di ou al in mo de
th pr re we us fo ou re le ta co of th fo
cl ( pa ) : fo ea cl in th se of pa cl co in se 12 , th cl re li th pa th re in of cl .
fo pa in th tr se , th in of th re ar de us th ac cl of th pa .
fo pa in th te se , ho , we us th pr pa cl gi by th cl di in se 12
si th we sy ha ac on to pr pa cl , ou te se co ar re of th th sy fa .
li ( hy , pa , pa ) : th re re we hy .
fo a gi hy , th fi ar of th re sp an id fo th hy , th se ar sp th pa in wh th hy is lo , an th th ar in th pa to wh th hy po .
ha ( hy ) : th se of re in th wo th ar fo in th an ( i . e . , un ) te of ea hy .
th vo fo th se of re in wo th oc at le n ti ( we se n = 12 in ou ex ) in th hy of th tr se .
no th wh th ha . wo re us in se 12 de we pa , th se us he ch hy .
al ( hy ) : th in of th re ar th hy in
wh al of th wo in th an te st wi a ca le .
ha ( hy ) : th in of th re ar th hy wh co a wo wi bo al an nu ch ( e . g . , i te cs ) .
ha ( hy ) : th se of re in th wo th ar fo in th " ne " of ea hy .
th ne of a hy in wo in a si pa , li it , ta en , ti or he in wh th hy is co .
th vo fo th se of re in th to 12 mo fr oc wo in ea tr se , ex fo wo on a st .
we le de fo th fo ta re fr th da se de in se 12 : me ( pa , pa ) , in ( pa , pa ) , an de - me ( pa , pa ) .
in ad to th po in fo th re , ou tr se in ap 12 , 12 ne ex .
we fo th se of ne - ti tr in fo ea ta re by en ea pa of no - ot pa fr th sa un th is no a po in of th ta re .
ad - al , fo th de . of . pe re we au th ne in wi ea pe - de pa wh is no a po in .
le me
as st ab , th al we us fo le re ru is si to fo in th it us a gr co ap to le a se of ho cl .
th tw pr di be ou me an fo ar tw .
fi , un fo ou me do no si us hi - cl wh se fo th ne cl to ad to a co de .
se , ou me us a di ev fu fo th se pr .
we di ea of th di in tu .
as de in se 12 , fo co cl us a hi - cl se th a sp of ca li .
we ha fo th , fo ou re : le ta , su a hi - cl st is un to le ru fo pa co of mo th on hy .
th se pr th ou me em in co of tw ph .
in th fi ph , th " pa " pa of th cl is le , an in th se ph , ad li ar ad to th cl us a hi - cl se .
ou al fo co th pa pa of a cl is a va of ri an mo ' s re pa me ( 12 ) .
th me is de to al th ba we of hi - cl se , na th to le go de it is of ne
in : tr se of ne an un po in
fo ea un po in
fi a pa ( up to bo le ) us th ba re
se th mo co pa pr fo wh cl se ha ' t ye fa ge th pa in an in cl do hi - cl to re th cl if hi - cl fa to fi an ac cl , ba to st 12
re : le cl
fi 12 : th pr fo le a cl in ou de va of re pa .
ex su re pa
fi 12 : fi a pa in th ba re .
on th le is sh a gr of co li by a si bi re .
th gr ca be th of as re we pa co by hy .
su th pa ( p1 p1 ) is an un po in .
pa pr by ex th su ar th tw co un an in is de , an th re th pa th li th tw
to ta a st in th se sp wh do no ex an im ga .
th ba id un re pa is th a re pr do ca be th of as a di gr in wh th no ar th do ' s co an th ed co to re wh ho am co .
th re - pa al tr to fi a sm nu of pr pa in th gr th ch th in of th
fi 12 pr an ov of ou pa pr fo le a si cl .
th pr is it un a co de ha be le .
th fi st in th me is to fi th sh pa of a bo le ( wh on ex ) fo ea po in ( of th ta re ) th ha no be co by a pr le cl .
th pr , il in fi 12 in ex a su ar ea of th co in th in .
ea su is ex by fi al co wh ca be re us an in of on of th ba re to co to a co at th fr of th su .
af fi su a pa fo ea un po in , th mo co pa
fi pa fo ea po in
re mo co pa
pi i p1 i ti
fi 12 : fi th mo co pa fo a se of po in .
gi th gr sh in fi 12 , su th th po in ar ( pi , p1 ) , ( p1 , p1 ) , ( p1 , p1 ) , an ( p1 , p1 ) .
ou al fi th sh pa fo ea in an th re th mo co pa pr .
in th ex th fi th in ha th sa pa pr , wh th in ( p1 , p1 ) ha di on ( no th di of th hy ) .
th pa pr is co in an in cl .
pr is us fo th in cl . 12 a pa pr sp th nu of hy in th pa an th di , bu it do no re th pa pa an hy in an pa in .
th no of th mo co pa pr is il in fi 12
th in cl is fo by re ea co in th pa wi a un va .
th cl is th fu re by a si hi - cl se , su as th us in fo .
if th hi - cl se fa to fi an ac cl , th th pr ba by re th la se pa pr fr th li of ca an th tr th ne mo co pr .
we fu bi th se fo cl by in ea on wi th cl of th pa of pa in th re .
fo ex , wh le cl fo th ta re me - be ( a , b ) , we in th ta of ea cl wi th li re ( a ) an pe ( b ) .
th bi ta ad of do kn wh is pr in th on - to gi to th we sy .
th se di be ou re - le al an fo is th wh fo us an in - th me to gu it hi - cl se , ou me , li dz an br ' s ra - fo ( 12 ) , us ra - es of a cl ' s er to gu it co .
we ha fo th us th ev fu ca th al to le fe , mo ge cl th wh fo ' s in ga me is us .
ex ev
we ev ou ap to le re ru us th fo - fo cr - va me de in se 12
on ea it , we le th ta re us -
12 th me is co fr le re de , th pa fo ea po in ne to be fo on on si it wi no ch as cl ar ad fo th ta re .
in th ca , be le ea ne cl th al ne on to up co in th nu of in co by ea pa pr .
in ( a , b ) : - co ( a ) , pe ( b ) , li ( c , b , a ) .
te se : 12 po , 12 ne
de ( a , b ) : - pe ( a ) , de ( b ) , li ( c , d , a ) , li ( e , f , d ) , li ( g , b , f ) ,
te se : 12 po , 12 ne
me ( a , b ) : - re ( a ) , pe ( b ) , li ( c , a , d ) , li . to ( e , d , b ) ,
te se : 12 po , 12 ne
fi 12 : a fe of th ru le fo re re in .
in tr in fr th of th un in ou da se , an te le cl us in fr th fo un .
fi 12 sh a le cl fo ea of th in . of , de . of , an me - be .
pr re .
on av , th we 12 , 12 , an 12 cl le fo th ta co re .
al wi ea ru , we sh ho we th ru cl te - se in .
ea of th ru wa le on mo th on of th tr se , th th te - se st re ag ov th fo te se .
th ru le fo th in . of re ar th si am th th ta re .
th le ru sh fo th re , fo ex , lo fo ca in wh a co pa ha a hy po to a pe pa .
th ru sh fo th me - be . of . pr re is mo in .
it de me . of . pr in in wh th pr ' s ho pa po to an in pa wh po to pe ho pa .
th hy fr th pr pa to th in pa mu ha th wo " pe " ne it .
th ru co ca in wh th me of a re pr ar li on a su " me " pa in of on th ho pa of th pr .
th ru sh fo th de . of re in a th - hy pa th li a de ho pa to a pe ho pa .
th ru re th th wo " gr " oc ne th se hy in th pa .
in th ca , th al ha le to ex th fa th de of ha a pa th se as a gr st di , an th an st wh ho pa is po to by th di is a me of th de .
al wi ea of ou pr re in , we ca an as co in th pr .
we ca th va th co of ou le ru se by va a th on th co va .
we ca th co of ea pr by co wh mo of th un in th pr li : in th pa cl th ar te by ea le cl .
th co me fo a pr re in is si th pr of th co me fo th pa cl th fa in th re pr .
12 12 12 12 12
fi 12 : ac / co tr fo le re ru .
us th co me , fi 12 sh th te - se ac / co cu fo th th ta re .
th ac le of al th ru se ar fa hi .
th me . of . pr ru ar be th 12 ac at co le of up to ab 12 .
th in . of ru ar ov 12 ac at co le of 12 an ab .
th de . of ru ar at le 12 ac at co le of up to 12 .
th li co le of th le ru is du pr to th li co of ou pa cl .
no th al of th le ru in li wh te pr pa cl .
as fi 12 sh , th co ex by ou pa cl is be
% fo mo cl .
le to ex te fi
in so ca , th in we wa to ex wi no be re by we pa or re am pa , bu by sm fr of te em in pa .
fo ex , gi a pe ho pa , we mi be in in ex th pe ' s na .
th ty of ta is co ca in ex .
th se di ou ap to le ru fo su in ex ta .
we ha de an in ex le al ca sr fo " se ru wi va . " sr is a to - do fi - or le in th sp of fo
sh wi fo it ge se he an ga me , bu di in th ki of in it ex an th co of it se .
in to sr is a se of pa , la to id in of th fi we wa to ex , an a se of at de ov to .
ou is a se of in ex ru .
th ex pr in ex ev po te fr of ap si to se wh it ma an of th ru .
as in fo , " gr " a ru in sr me hi - cl th a sp of po li , at ea st ad a li th ma as ma po ex as po wh ex a la nu of pr co ne ex .
wh a ru is de go en ( ei it co on po ex , or fu sp is ju to be un ) , al po ex ma it ar re fr th tr se , an th pr is re .
in ou pa do , a po ex is a la te fr se of to on of ou tr do a ne ex is an un to se ha th sa si as so po ex .
du tr we as th go of a li us al su ne ex .
th re us by ou ru le at to ex th sa ch of po ex ma in te of th in to co wi th an su th .
at ea st in ru gr , se di ty of pr ma be
le ( se , re , l\ ) : th le ca as th th le of a fi , in te
of nu of to , is le th , gr th , or eq to so in .
so ( se , va , pa , at , va ) : th le ca po an at - va te fo so to in th se ( e . g . , " th fi co so to th is ca " ) .
on ar to th pr is a va .
ea su va bi to a di to .
th , if th le us a va al in us in th cu ru , it is sp th de of a si to if th va is a ne on , it de a pr un to .
po ( se , va , fr , re , n ) : th le ca sa so ab th po of a to bo by a so - pr in th cu ru .
th po is sp re to th be or en of th se .
re ( se , va , va , re , n ) : wh at le tw va ha be in - du by so - pr in th cu ru , th le ca sp th or an di fr ea ot .
li fo , sr ca ex re st in th do .
fo sr , th on po fo of re st is th re to to ea ot .
th mo ob ex is th su re , wh co ad to , bu mo in ki of st ca be ex , su as sy st .
in as a so pr , th le ha th op of ad an ar pa of re at to th te , so th it ca ma st of th fo , " so to wh is fo by a to wh is fo by a to th is ca . " th , al so pr on re to to
ow ( fr ) : - so ( fr , b , ( ) , ir , tr ) ,
le ( fr , < , 12 ) , so ( fr , b , ( pr ) , wo , " gm " ) , so ( fr , a , ( ) , lo , tr ) , so ( fr , b , ( ) , wo , un ) , so ( fr , b , ( ) , qu , fa )
fi 12 : an ex ru fo na of ho pa ow .
th en re of th ru is , " a se of tw to , on of wh ( a ) is in a ht ti fi an lo th fo ch , th ot of wh ( b ) is pr by th to gm , is un fr tr , an is no a fo - ch to . " th is a hi - ac ru , ac 12 co ou of 12 ma on a va se .
in a fi , th le ca ex in av in te su th fi , as we .
in , th le ma on us pa of le on wh su a pa is us in a so pr , th sy ma lo pa av .
in th wa , th co ex th th fa en is ke un co .
ex ev
as in th pr ex , we fo th le - on - un - ou me , re - pe ho th pa be to on of th fo un ou fo te an tr on th re th .
th da se fo th pr ex co of al pe pa in th da se .
th un of me in th ex is an in pa .
if sr ' s mo co pr on a pa co ex to so in of th pa ow ' s na , or if it ma no pr fo a pa co no na , it be is co as co .
ot , it is co as an er .
la - mo : we , 12 - ju - 12 12 : 12 : 12 gm
<t br ra do / ti
br ra do
fi 12 : an ex ht fr wh th ab ru ma .
in th ca , th fr br ra in th ti is ex .
no th th is an er pr si it mi th la na of
fi 12 an 12 sh a le ru an it ap to a te ca .
fi 12 sh th ac - co cu fo sr on th na - ex ta .
un th cr de ab , it ac 12 ac wh al pa ar pr .
a fu 12 of th fi di no co th ow ' na , ho , an a la pa of th le ' s er is be of sp pr ov th fi .
if we co on th pa co na , sr ' s pe is 12 .
fi 12 : ac / co tr us sr fo na ex .
a pr on a fi th do no co a na is co as an er .
re wo
th ar se si bo of re th ar re to th ta an me di in th pa .
in th se we br re th ma ar of re wo .
do cl
ou wo is re to re in do cl , su as th re at re te re co ( tr ) ( 12 , 12 ) .
a wi va of me ha be ap to th do - cl ta .
th tf ap to in re is th ba fo th ro cl .
al wh ha be a st ba al fo te cl ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
it " wo - ve " ap in de cl wi a ve of we , wh ea we in ho im th co wo is to th cl .
th re ha be us wi ma di le al , in me ba re - in ( 12 ) , ne ne ( 12 , 12 ) , li di an ( 12 ) , lo re ( 12 ) , wi - ho an th ex gr ( eg ) al ( 12 ) .
an us li of re in te cl co fr ba id in pr an in th .
ba ru ha be th st po fo a nu of cl al ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) , an th mi de le pr ha be us as th ba of an al as we ( 12 ) .
an li of re ha be to us sy le me fo te cl .
nu st ha us al su as de tr , sw - 12 , ri an ch ca be fo in ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th st in th th al ar qu co wi st - ba me .
in ex
th pr th we ar ad is re to th tr in ex ta , su as th re do in th me un ( mu ) ( 12 , 12 ) co .
th wo in th mu co ha co pr su as ex sy de of te at fr ne ar , co ca fr th in fi su as th pe , vi , et .
on ke di be th wo an th re re he is th we ar co wi ex in fr hy , wh th mu wo ha fo on or fl te .
in ad , ou ap re he on ma le me th ca be tr to ex in , wh mo ea wo in th mu co re on ha - cr me fo ex in .
re , th pr of us ma - le me to in in - ex ro ha re mo at .
pa ( 12 ) an au ( 12 ) ar ma le sy wh le ex pa fr co of pa do th ha be an to id fr of in .
th pa ar th re an ma - al in in a la in ex sy .
au - ts ( 12 ) re th re th do be an .
cr ( 12 ) an ra ( 12 ) bo de th ma le te ca be us to le ru th pe ex au .
cr is a co al wh ta pa , an se as in an pr ru fo ex fr no se .
ra us id fr re le an re so th re on sy pr - pr .
st wi ma sp ex pa , bo sy le by dr co an me pa .
th co wi th ge - to - sp ap in he .
se re ha ex th pr of te ex fr th we an ot in so .
on ex is il ( 12 ) , a sy de to le ex pa ov th hu - re ou of on da .
il ex pr ex ab th pr co of a da to le ho re ar fo fo ou by a pa sy .
si , bu sp de fo us wi ht is sh ( 12 ) , a ba hu ag .
th ap ar re to th ge pr of " wr in " ( 12 ) , le ex pa fo hi re so .
at th sa ti , id th ha pr us fo ge te ha al be sh to wo we fo we pa .
we ( 12 ) is a mo of cr in wh pa se fr ar re by se of ht .
ex se in fr hy
se ot re gr ha co th se in th ca be au - ma in an ex fr hy .
sp ( 12 ) pr a se of he th re hy co to se re .
sp , sh co re - ti th ca of be in fr hy st , fi sy or , an ht pa st .
mo an el ( 12 ) ha de a sy th fi th we pa fo a pa gi a bi ci to it .
pa of th ta pe by th sy is to fi th pe ho pa an th pu pa of an au st fr th ho pa of th pe ' s in .
fo th ta , mo an el us se - co ru wh ar so si to th re - re ru we le in se 12
th ru lo fo ce ke in hy to de wh on to fo in th se .
wh th ru ar ha - co fo a sp ta , ou wo co th pr of le su ru fo ar re .
pi et al .
( 12 ) co th ta of cl pa in fu ca su as he , in an re .
th ch th cl us fe su as fi si , nu of in an ou hy , av de of ch pa in th hy - li gr , et .
wh ou wo ha no di in le fu cl of pa , we ha ob th ou fi - or le fo bo pa an re cl - ti of im le su fu ca .
re , fo ex , th ou le fi - or ru fo re st pa pr ex th cl of pe in pa .
th fe we us al di so fr th of pi et al . , bu co to bo ap is th ce im of ve - ba te si an hy
ex kn ba fr th we
ot gr ha wo on ex pr kn - ba in fr th we .
lu et al .
( 12 ) ha pr an ex to ht ca sh wh we pa au ca en on in on th pa .
th ha al de a sy , ex , th ex sh - en in fr we pa , an st it in a lo kn ba .
th ho is th a li of st on wi co in co us , en ag su as ex to le th in en on th
th st in se ( 12 ) pr a na la in to a kn - ed ba co fr th we .
th kn ba co me - in ab th co of th we , so th a qu to st re re hy se .
st bu it kn ba by di mo ma ad na la an on we pa .
th mo si re de in th ar is th ad of ex ma
la ( xm ) ( 12 ) .
wh ht is de to de th la of in in a pa , xm ca be us to de in ab th co of th pa .
as wi sh , we pa au ca us xm to en on in ab th pa .
si xm is a wo wi we co st , ho , it is su to be wi us .
we be th me fo an th co of we pa , su as sh an xm , ca as wi th ta of ex kn ba fr th we , bu do no ob th ne fo ou we ap .
th ar tw no li of ap su as sh an xm .
fi , th ar of no us wh we pa au do no em th .
se , th pr a un on .
th is , si in we pa au ar re fo an we pa , th su of th ap hi on th ex to wh au em st , sh on in a co ma .
mo , on de ar la in th ha of we pa au in th ap .
th ma be ca wh th on ca us to de a gi we pa ar no ap or re ca fo th ta to wh an ex kn ba wi be ap .
in th we ap , on th ot ha , th on de ca be ma by th us of th sy .
on in wa in th xm an we ap ca po be co , is by ex xm - an pa as pr - la tr da .
we pl to ex th is in fu re .
we ag
th we sy de he is an ex of a we ag th br th we , ex in as it go .
ma ot we ag ha be de ov th pa fe ye , in se th in so fo of le .
ho , th va ma of th sy us le to im th ab to re te in , ra th to ex co - un in .
fo ex , jo et al .
( 12 ) de a we ag ca we wa th se as a to gu fo us br th we .
we wa le to su ap hy gi us ' in , ba on th hy fo by pr us wi si in .
as su , it in le to cl hy - a ta si to th wo re he on le to ex re in .
a sy wi a si go is le ( 12 ) , wh le th in of a si us , in co to we wa wh le fr a co of us .
sy an we ( 12 ) of a mo re wa of br th we wa an le .
st fr a ma co in pa fo a pa to , th us ca ra hy of th pa .
th sy us th ra to le a us sp to pr th ca be us to su un hy on th pa .
sy an we ca al us se en li ly to re pa by tu th to pr in a qu .
li ( 12 ) wo in an of - li se .
a ge mo of on us ' s in is le by as th us to ra pa .
li us th mo to br th we of - li an re a se of pa th ma th us ' s in .
on re sy th is cl in sp to ou wo is sh et a / . ' s ( 12 ) ah sy , wh at to lo th ho pa of a pe , gi in su as th pe ' s na , or af et .
ah us kn of ho pa pl co to se fo pe ho pa , an in fa le th co fr ex .
co an fu wo
we be th pa wi a go an a th .
th go is to au cr a la kn ba wh co mi th of th wo wi .
th th is th on ca au cr kn ba fr th we by fi us ma le al - ri to cr in ex me fo ea of th de ty of kn , an th ap th me to ex pr , sy st di fr
th pa pr su fo ou th by pr an te a va of ma le al fo in ex , an by de th we sy th in th le in ex to br we si an po a kn - ed ba .
as sh in se 12 an el , ou sy ha ac an ac of be th 12 at co le of ap 12 wh us th le in - ma ex to po it un kn ba wh br ne we si .
th re pr en in su fo ou th , an su ma ro fo
we ha ex a va of le me fo th ta , in st ba - of - wo cl , fi - or ru le , an mu - st le me .
we ha fo th st ba of wo me , de fr do cl me in in re , wo we fo cl in we pa .
ho , th me do no ta ad of th sp hy st av on th we .
th , we de fi - or le al bo fo le to cl pa an le to re re am se pa .
th fi - or me ar ca of de pa th oc ac mu we pa , th hy , an sp wo th ap on th pa an hy .
ou ex in th th me te to ha hi ac th th ba of wo cl , th th fr pr lo co .
in ad to th fi - or le me th " lo ou " fr th pa to co it ne , we al ha de me th " lo in " to co th de st of hy an sp te fr wi a si we pa .
th sr al de in se 12 le re ru th ex sp ty of te fi wi a we pa , su as a pe ' s na .
we be th th to of me we ha de he wi be ap to a wi ra of pr do .
fo ne do , ho , we ma ap an co th me in wa no ex in th pa .
fo ex , in cu wo in a ne pr do , we ar us pa cl to re in of a pa re ( th ec se of a co ) , wh in th wo de he we us pa cl to re cl in .
in sh , th mo ap me fo re in fo a pa cl or re wi de on ho th in te to be re in th we .
ba on th in re re he , we ar op ab th fu pr fo au co an ma a sy kn ba by in hy on th we .
ke qu re , ho .
fo ex , wh le of ac
ca be ac by le pr fo ex in fr th we , an wh le of ac wi be re of th ? fo so ta th re ac wi be qu hi ( e . g . , fo an in sy th au in mo on be of it us ) .
ho , fo ta su as in re on th we , th sy ne on be su ac to ou th cu ke - ba re sy th ha no re no of an on .
al fu re to st le me is wa , we co th th wi be a st st of ap wh ev an ap co kn ba wi ou cu ke re me .
a se ty of qu fo ou sy is ho mu ef wi be re to tr th sy fo ea ne on , or fo ea ex to th gr on ? in th ex re he , th sy wa tr us th of ha - la we pa th we co at a co of ap on or tw pe so - we of ef .
in ne wo we ar be to ex me fo re th de on ha la da .
be is a li of th an ot re op th me fu re :
de le me th ex th hi re th ex am cl in th hi .
fo ex , in re wo we ha sh th th ac of ou ba ba of wo cl ca be im by us th cl hi to ob mo ac es of cl co wo pr ( 12 ) .
us th va po of un we pa to su th av ha - la da to im le ac .
re we ha sh th th em al ca be us to co la an un da to bo ac ( 12 ) .
we ar al ex th co of em wi po - ba tr fo ac le in wh th le re la fo sp we pa wh la wi be es
co - tr mu cl .
fo ex , co a pr se in wh on we pa cl ex th wo on th pa , an a se cl ex in th wo on th in hy to th pa .
in re wo , we ha pr a me by wh ea cl ac as a tr fo th ot , an we ha pr in ex an th an sh th pr of th
ex mo li st .
we pl to ex wa in wh no , ve , an pr ph ex fr th te ca be us as fe fo in ex .
we ha co pr ex th sh im ac in so ca wh ou ba of wo re is au by th ex ph ( 12 ) .
we co th su li fe wi be ev mo us fo ta wi fe wo , su as cl in hy .
ex mu st fo le to ex te fi fr we pa .
we ha de a nu of ap to th ta ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) , in mu - st
in st ba - of - wo me in fi - or le ta .
we ha be de me th au fi - or le wi th ab to us ba -
of - wo cl to in ne pr fo ch th pa an hy re in le ru ( 12 ) .
ex mo ht st .
we pl to in th ut of re th ht st of pa wh le ru fo re cl an in ex .
we ha in on ap to re ht st an ex it fo le ta ( 12 ) .
le re ov th gr kn ba .
we pl to us le me to di in re ov th fa th ha be ex fr th we , an to us th le fa to im fu fa ex .
fo ex , in th un kn ba we mi ex to le ho to pr th de of a fa me ba on th de of he st ad .
ex th on to ne pr do .
we ar cu ap ou me to th ta of ex in ab co fr th we .
a ob mo ev di sc fr na ba
wh na ba of pr ac cl , it pr pr wh on wa to in th sc fo ea cl as an es of un .
pe - cl sc fo th wi cl te to gr to 12 an sc fo th lo cl te to 12 .
of th ef is so st th fl - po ro - of er ca th pr to be ca as ex 12 fo th wi cl an 12 fo th ot .
th ex va ar an ar of th in as .
if fo ea wo , th va of pr ( u; ) be di cl di by on or of ma , th th fi pr wi di by as ma or of ma as th ar wo in th do .
cl - co wo pr wo be mu mo si ac cl if wo de we ta
we wo li sc th ac re th un in ea pr an en us to se co th sc of mu do .
we at to co th ex va , wh st av th co of mo wo - de , in tw st .
fi , in of us th pr of th wo li , we us th ge me of th li .
th ap is cl re to th co of pe in la mo fo sp re ( 12 ) .
pe is a me of th li of so da gi a mo , wh th li is no fo th le of th da .
we be wi na ba ( eq .
12 ) , re th su to an eq ex th su ov al wo in th vo t in of ju th wo in th do ( eq .
12 ) , ta th lo , ( eq .
12 ) , an di by th nu of wo in th do ( eq .
th re in th lo of th ge me of th wo li , pl a te fo th cl pr .
pr ( c ) np - |c ) = pr ( c ) h pr ' k ) ^* ( 12 )
oc lo ( ? i ( c ) ) + j1 ( w^ ) lo ( pr ( u; , - |c ) ) ( 12 )
+ ^^ ( pr ) ) ( 12 )
lo ( pr ( c ) ) , tn ( wi , d )
if we in n ( wi , d ) / n as pr ( wi ) , th ri - ha te of th ex is th ne cr en ( 12 ) be th di of wo in by th do wi th di of wo in by th cl :
lo ( pr ( c ) ) +^ ( u> . |< ( ) ^ ( pr ) )
th , th se te sp th th cl c wi th hi sc wi be th on wi th lo cr en cl th co " co " th do mo ef .
th ex re in sc fo ea cl th va sm , wi te to
cr en in eq 12 ca be in un as th av nu of bi ne to en a wo fr th do us an en th is op fo th di of wo in dr fr th cl .
cr en do no , ho , ac fo th va di of en di do do ar mo co , an in re mo bi on av to en .
we wa sc th ca be se co be do .
a wa to ac fo di be do is to us ku - le di is , to su th av nu of bi it wo ta to en th do us it op en ( as ag , th th wo ar in of on an ) .
th re in an ex th ca be in un as th av nu of ex bi re be we ar us a su en in of th op en .
we mo th se te of eq 12 so th it ex th kl di sc fo ea cl :
m^ + f; . wl ( |l - j| )
n i= \p ( wi ) j
we al no th sc ac al cl so th th su to a co .
th no - ma al ha th ef of in ou co in th cl of do wi hi wo en .
th is in de be hi - en do ha mo un wo , wh ca be co as st ev , an mo li to re in a co cl .
no th th mo to 12 do no ch th or of cl es fo a gi do .
co , th cl ma by na ba ar no af .
th mo on se to pr we - di , co sc .
no th no of th ch si st na ba in eq 12 ha ch th sc or of di cl fo th sa do ha no ch cl th wo ha re fr na ba .
th ha on se to pr we - di , co sc .
