ab .
le pr a us to fo th au de of au ro .
re re on le ro co ha pr fo on le si ta th we st in is .
if ro en a mu of co le ta ov th en li , ho , th is an op to tr kn be th .
in or to do so , ro ma le th in of th in ta an en .
th ta - in kn ca be em to bi ge wh le co , wh re th ne fo re - wo ex .
we ar th kn tr is es if ro ar to le co wi mo le ti in co sc .
tw ap to li ro le wh bo ca in kn ab th ro an it en ar pr .
bo ap ha be ev us a he - 12 mo ro .
le ta in na in un in en an a si nd - an - fe ta .
12 wh le ?
tr , it ha of be as in ro re th ac a pr kn ab th ro , it se , an mo im it en is av - ab .
by as th av of ac mo of bo th wo an th ro it , th ki of en su ro ca op in , an co th ki of ta su ro ca so , is li .
li es ar fr fo
kn bo .
a hu de ha to pr ac mo of
th wo an th ro .
en bo .
ev if su de kn is av , ma it co - ac , i . e . , ha - co ex mo of ro ha - wa , se an en , ha of be fo to re un am of pr ti .
tr bo .
it wa ea re th ma re ro do - ma ar to co to be ha ef ( sc et al . , 12 ) , ( ca ,
12 th pa is al av as te re ia - tr - 12 - 12 , un of bo , de .
of co sc ii , ma 12
12 ) , ( by , 12 ) .
co tr tu ou to be a se ob - st fo de co st fo co ro in co do , an ro we fa fr be re .
pr bo .
th ro de mu be pr en to ac
ex pl th we ge us th in mo of th wo .
re re on au ro ha ch th de of au ag an po ou a pr di fo fu re in ro ( se fo ex - pl ( br , 12 ) an se pa in ( ma , 12 ) ) .
re an re - ti op ha re co mo at th , fo ex , op - it an co .
ma ap ha dr th as th pe wo kn is av sy ev op in th ex wh no do - sp in kn is av at al .
co , to ro ar fa gr un , ho en , th ha to or th , ex th en au , re fr fa , an th ha to so wh fa of ta .
if ro la in kn ab th an th en , le be in .
th te le re to a va of al th ar ch by th ab to re mi or in wo kn by ex , ob , an ge .
le ro th co pa of th do kn th an im ov ti .
th ar le de - de on a hu in to pr th kn be .
a le ro ar is ty ex en to de wi a wh cl of en , ro an / or ta ( go ) .
co th in pr kn , if av at al , is of to we to so a co pr of - li .
in or to re a go , le ro re on th in wi th en to ex in - fo .
di le st di ma in th as : th wa to do ex ( ex ) , th wa to ge fr th ob ex - en , an th ty an am of pr kn th co th sp of th in hy ab th wo .
th wi be no op , ge le te fo au ro , si le te ar ch by a tr - of be th de of ex , gi by th si of th ga in th do kn , an th am of ob re fo ll th ga .
ge sp , th mo un a ro le ar , th mo ex - im we ex th ro to ta to le su , an vi ve .
ho , th ad of ap le st to au ro ag is ob : le ro ca op in a wh cl of in un en , an th ca co fo ch , si th ca re - ad th in be ab th en an th .
mo , al em le kn is gr in th re wo .
it ha lo be re in ai th le is a ke fe fo ma au ag ca of so mo co ta in mo re en .
re re ha pr a va of ri le te th al a ro to ac hu ch of kn by it - se .
se fo ex ( me , 12 ) , ( mo , 12 ) , ( po , 12 ) , ( ta , 12 ) ,
fi 12 th ro co le pr .
a ro ag is ab to pe th st of it en by it se , an ch it us it ef ( ac ) .
a re fu th ma se to re me th pe of th ro .
th co le pr is th pr of nd a co po th ge ac su th th re is ma ov ti .
( ma an co , 12 ) , ( li , 12 ) , an ( ku an by , 12 ) .
wh ex is th co pr ad by ro le ? le us ou a ge de of le ro co .
as th ro ac in an en w ( th wo ) .
ea ti st , th en is in a ce st z z .
by st we me th su of al qu in th en th ma ch du th li of th ro .
th ro is ab to ( pa ) pe th st of it en th it se .
it is al ab to ac us it ef , as sh in fi 12
le s de th se of al po se , an a th se of al ac th th ro ca ex .
ac ( in ze - ac , if th ro do no ) ch th st of th wo .
he , th en ca be un as a ma w : z a ( ci : 12 ) ! z fr st an ac to st .
fo ex , im an au mo ro wh ta it is to ke th oo cl .
th wo su a ro wi be ac in ar bu , in th ob su th ro , th oo , th di on th oo , hu th wa by , an so on .
ap se mi in a ca mo on th ro ar , an th se of al se mi be th sp of al ca im .
ac co be go fo , tu , sw on / of va , an li ar .
in or to de th go of th ro , we as th th ro is gi a re fu r : s ( ci : 12 ) ! ir , th ma se to sc re va .
th re ev th su of th ro to so it ta : in th mo si fo th re is po ( sa 12 ) , if th ro re it go , it is ne ( - 12 ) if th ro fa , an ze ot .
po re co to pl , an ne re re pa .
in th mo ro do , fo ex , th re ma be po if th is no di on th oo , an ne re ma be re if th ro co wi th fu or ru ou of ba po .
th co le
pr is th pr of nd a co fu f th ge ac su th th re is ma ov ti .
mo fo , a co le pr ca be de in th fo wa :
co le pr : hs a; w; ri ( ci : 12 ) ! f : s ! a su th f ma r ov ti
th fo of th ro co le pr ha be ex st in th el of re le .
( su , 12 ) , ( ba et al . , 12 ) .
th fa , mo ap th em fr th el ha st ro le wi a mi se of as : th ro is ab to se , it is ab to ex ac , ac ha an ef on fu se , an th is a pr - gi re fu th de th go of th ro .
th go of re le is to ma th re ov ti .
no th th ge de la an sp ab th ro at ha , it en , or th ki of re fu th ro is ex to fa .
he , ap th ar ab to ad so su a ro co le pr ar ge le te .
pe th mo re as fo in mo ap to re le is th th ro is ab to se th st of th wo re .
if th is th ca , it su to le th po as a fu of th mo re se to ac : f : s ! a , i . e . , th co po is pu re .
as ba et al .
po ou ( ba et al . , 12 ) , th pr of le a co po ca th be at by dy pr te ( be , 12 ) .
as it tu ou , ev if ro ha ac to co st de of th en , le co in co ro wo wi la st sp is pr no fe .
th is be it ta of to mu ex to ac th kn re fo ma re , i . e . , to ll th hu kn ga , an ro ha is sl .
on mi ar th be le te ha to be in th de th le co , wh st be ge .
al is ce sp fo be le an ge te th gr de th am of ex re , it se un th su te wi ev be ap to co , re - wo ro en wi sp re an di ta .
th co of kn ac is in in th fo of th pr .
re - wo ex wi be th ce bo of an ge le te th do no ut pr kn ab th ro an it en .
wh do na ag su as hu le so mu be th ar ag ? ma a be qu to as is : is th le pr fa by na ag an si th th of ar on ? we wi no at to gi ge an to th ge qu .
we wi , ho , po ou th im of kn tr an li le pr in or to ma ro to le mo co
12 th ne of li ag le
hu ty en a mu of co le pr ov th en li , an so do ro .
he , in th pa we wi be in in th li le pr fa by a ro ag , in wh it mu le a co of co po fo a va of re co ta .
ea of th co pr , hs a; wi ri in th sa ro wi th sa se of se , ef , an ma va on in th pa en wi , an in th re fu ri th de th go st fo th pr .
fo ex , an in mo ro mi fa mu ta su as sh pa , de ma , su cr pr , gu it wo - pl at ni , an so on .
in th sc th en wi be th sa fo al ta , bu th re fu va .
al , a wi - cl ro th is ab to cl fr of bu an mo ar on wa an wi mi ha th ve si ta of cl wi .
it wi , ho , fa mu fr an wi ( en ) ov it li .
in th li le pr , fo ea di en an ea re fu th ro ag mu nd a di co po , fi .
th li le pr of th ag th co to a se of co le pr :
li le pr : fh a; wi ri ( ci : 12 ) ! fi : s ! ag su th fi ma ri ov ti
of co th ag co ap th li le pr by ha ea co le pr in .
ho , th is an op fo th ag to do co be .
be th co le pr ar de in te of th sa s , a , an po th sa w , th ag sh be ab to re th di of so th i - th co le pr by us kn it ac fr so ea co le pr .
fo ex , a ro th mu le to de la pr ou an to co tr in th sa en sh be ab to us mu of wh it ha le fr th rs ta to si le th se .
th pr of li le of th op fo sy am th di co le pr , wh ca sp - up le ov th li of th ag .
vi ro le as a li le pr mo re on bo - st le al th tr le kn fr on le ta to an .
bo le al mi st wi lo - co le pr , an gr in th pr so po to ha pr - le .
si to hu , fu ro mi rs ha to le si ta ( su as lo - le na , ha - ey co ) , an , on su , dr th at - te to in mo di an co le ta ( su as pi up
fi 12 th ro we us in al ex de in th pa is a wh he - 12 ro wi a ma an a gr .
it is eq wi tw so se , on on th to of th ro th ca be di by a ro mi to gi a fu 12 sw ( 12 va ) , an on on th wr th ca be ro by th ma to gi a 12 sw .
so se re ap ec di .
su se ar in bu ve no .
an de la pr ou ) .
as , fo ex , si ( si , 12 ) an li ( li , 12 ) de , le re co ta wi in co ca re in a re sy be th co le ta , an an im - pr pr so po .
in th ex , si mo ro we ab to so mo co na ta wh th ro we gi si , re le ta be .
th al re th th sy we un to le th sa co ta in is , po ou th im of kn tr fo ro le .
th re of th pa is or as fo .
in th ne tw se , we wi br pr tw ap to th li le pr .
bo ap ha be im an ev us a he - 12 mo ro wi a ma - ni sh in fi 12
in th rs ap , ca ex - ba ne ne le ( eb ) , we wi as th th en of th ag st th sa fo al co le ta .
th al th ro to le ta - in ac mo .
on le , th ac mo pr a me of tr kn ac co le ta .
in eb , su ac mo ar us to ex an an ob .
in se 12 , we dr th as of st en .
in , we de a mo au ro th ha to so th
fi 12 ep : st wi th in st s1 , th ac se a1 a1 : : : ; an ( ci : 12 ) 12 wa ob to pr th na re rn .
th ro ag us it ac mo , wh ca pr ex in th sa en , to ex th ob ep an th bi le .
se te fo an ex .
sa ta in di , re en .
we de ho th ro mi le an tr en - in kn th ca th ch - ti of it se , as we as in ch of th en .
in se 12 we wi re so re ap to ro le wh al ut pr - ou le kn .
as we wi se , th ar se ty of te th ca be gr in ca .
th pa is co by se 12
12 ex ob in te of pr ex
as de in th pr se , th li le pr fa by a le ro ag is th pr of le co of ta in fa of en ov th en li .
in th se we wi dr ou at to a pa su - ty of li le pr , na to th li le pr of ro th sp th wh li ex in th sa en .
th re cl of li le sc pl an im ro in au ag re .
ma pr ro ag , su as ho ro , in ro ar or ar in , fa a va of le pr in th ve sa en .
in su sc , kn ab th en ca be re , si th en st th sa fo ea ta .
th ex - ba ne ne le al ( eb ) , wh wi be pr in th se , tr ta - in kn vi le ac mo wh ar le em du pr so .
12 le ac mo
ro ob th en ( an th ) by th ef of th ac .
in ot wo , ea ti an ac is pe , th ro ma us it se
to se th wa th wo ha ch .
le us as fo si th th ro is ab to ac se th st of th wo .
as po ou in th pr se , le co re to le a re co
if th en is su pr , ne ne le te su as th ba - pr tr pr ( ru et al . , 12 ) ca be us to mo th en .
mo sp , ea ti an ac is pe , th pr st de by s , th ac a an th ne st s fo a tr ex fo th ac mo ne , de by m :
h s; a i ( ci : 12 ) ! s
ac mo ar th fu of th ty m : s a ( ci : 12 ) ! s .
si we as th th en is th sa fo al ta , ac mo ca in th al fo tr kn fr on ta to an .
ea in co le pr re a di po , i . e . , le a co fu fi : s ( ci : 12 ) ! a th , wh em by th ag , ma th co re ri .
in ge , fi is di to le di .
fo th id of re le ( ( sa , 12 ) , ( su , 12 ) , ( ba et al . , 12 ) , ( wa , 12 ) ) , we de th pr of le fi in th pr of le an ev fu , qi , de ov st an ac .
qi : s a ( ci : 12 ) ! ir , wh qi a is th ex fu cu re ac af ex ac a in st s .
as fo a mo th ag ha le an ac ev fu qi .
th it ca ea us th fu to se op ac th ma re ov ti .
gi so st , s , th th ag nd it in , it co it co ac a by co it av ac to de wh of th pr th hi qi va :
a = ar qi a
si qi a me th fu cu re , a is th op ac if qi a is co .
th pr of le a po is th re to th pr of le an ev fu .
ho ca an ag le th ev fu qi ? to se ho tr da fo le qi mi be ob , co th sc de in fi 12
th ro
12 we in av th co pr of in an no pe pe , si th al pr in th se is ki of or to re on th is .
se ( ba an mo , 12 ) , ( ch , 12 ) , ( li an mi , 12 ) , ( mo an ba , 12 ) , ( ri an sc , 12 ) , ( ta , 12 ) , ( wh an ba , 12 ) fo ap to le wi in pe .
12 se fo ex ( ba et al . , 12 ) , ( jo , 12 ) , ( mu , 12 ) , ( th , 12 ) fo
mo ap to le ac mo wi ne ne .
ag be at th in st s1 an pe th ac se a1 a1 : : : ; an .
af ac an it re th re rn = 12 : 12 wh , in th ex , in th th ac se wa co su .
at a rs gl , th ep ca be us by th ag to de tr ex fo th ev fu qi by as th na re wi ea st - ac pa :
h s1 a1 i ( ci : 12 ) ! rn = 12 : 12 h s1 a1 i ( ci : 12 ) ! rn = 12 : 12
h sn ( ci : 12 ) 12 an ( ci : 12 ) 12 i ( ci : 12 ) ! rn = 12 : 12
an in le me , su as th ba - pr tr pr , ca us su tr ex to le qi .
as th nu of tr ex gr , th ag in ve of qi wi im , re in it ch in ef ac . 12 no th fo ea co le pr hs a; wi ri , th ag mu le a di qi , si th re di fo di ta .
12 th ex - ba ne ne le al
ho ca th ag us it pr le kn , na th ne ne ac mo , to gu le of th ev fu qi ? as po ou ea in th pa , we ar in in th li le pr .
si we as th th se th th en is th sa fo al in co le pr , ne ne ac mo ca im do kn th is in of th pa co le pr at ha .
in th ex - ba ne ne le al ( eb ) , th ag us th ac mo to bi le of th co fu .
12 fo si of th no , we as th re wi on be re at th en of an ep .
eb ca be ap to ar re fu .
se ( mi an th , 12 ) fo mo de .
12 no th mo so le sc fo le ev fu ha be de .
in hi di , wa ( wa , 12 ) de q - le , a sc fo le ev fu qi ak re .
in q - le tr - in pa ar de ba on th ma po q va at th ne st : hs ak ( ci : 12 ) ! ma qs a .
in , in al ou ex we ap a li co - na of wa re sc an th no - re sc de in th pa .
th co is st re to su t d al ( su , 12 ) .
si th ex pr is no es fo th id pr in th pa , we wi om an de .
a se ex , al us wi , is to di re ov ti .
if ac ar to be ch su th th nu of ac is mi , re is ty di wi a di fa 12
th re co po co pr so re to mo di re .
se ( mi an th , 12 ) or ( th an mi , 12 ) fo a mo de de of th is .
fi 12 fi sl : le f be a ta fu fo wh th ex hx fx , hx fx , an hx fx ar kn .
ba on th po th le mi ge th hy g .
if th ou - in de ar al kn , th le ca do mu be : h .
eb wo as fo .
su th ro fa th co le pr nu - be i , i . e . , it ha to le th ev fu qi .
th le sc de ab pr tr va fo th de ev fu .
re ex - im al th ro to co en da to le th de qi .
ho , th pr do no ut th kn re in th ac mo .
as - su th ag ha le al ac ac mo th mo th ef of ac on th st of th en .
of co , th ac mo wi on be ap co , si th ar le in fr a ni am of tr da .
in eb , th ag em th ac mo to ex , an an ge be fr th ob ep .
th is do in th fo th
ex .
an ex is a po - fa pr of th ob st - ac se ( de an mo , 12 ) , ( mi et al . , 12 ) , ( mi an th , 12 ) .
st wi th in st - ac pa s1 a1 , th ag po - fa pr su st up to th na st sn us it ne ne ac mo .
si th ac mo ar on ap co , pr - ti wi de fr th ob st .
an .
ha ex th wh ep , th ex is an to ex fu in th is us fo le th ev fu qi .
in pa , th ag an ho a sm ch of th st fe wi af th na re , an th th va of th ev fu .
th is do by ex pa de ( sl ) of th ta fu qi wi re to th ob st in th ep : fi , th ag co th pa de of th na re wi re to th na st sn .
no th th re fu rs , in it de , is as to be gi to th ag .
th sl ar no pr ba th th ch of ac mo in .
ne ne ac mo re di fu .
us th ch ru of di , th ag co th pa de of th na re wi re to th pr st sn ( ci : 12 ) 12 by mu th pa de of th re wi th de of th ne ne ac
th pr is it , yi al pa de of th na re al th wh ep :
he m : s a ( ci : 12 ) ! s de th ne ne ac mo .
th re - st sl an th im of th st fe fo th na re .
st fe be ( by th ac mo ) to be ir to ac th na re wi ha pa de of ze , wh la de va in th pr of st re fe .
th an ex sl ap th sl of th ta ev fu qi .
fi 12 il th im of th sl in - ti of th ta fu .
su th un ta fu is th fu f de in fi 12 , an su th th tr ex ar gi : x1 , x1 an x1
an ar co fu ap , fo ex a ne ne , mi hy th fu g sh in fi 12 .
if th sl at th po ar kn as we , th th re fu mi be mu be , as il in fi 12 .
eb us a co le sc ut bo ty of tr in - ma .
th ta va ( c . f .
eq 12 ) fo le qi ar ge fr ob , wh th ta sl , gi by
r h sn ( ci : 12 ) 12 an ( ci : 12 ) 12 i ( ci : 12 ) !
r h s1 a1 i ( ci : 12 ) !
sk ak ;
ar ex fr an th ob us do kn ac in pr co le ta .
bo so of tr in , th ta va an th ta sl , ar us to up th we an bi of th ta ne . 12 co , th do kn is us to bi th ge .
si th bi is kn , it wi pa re th ne fo re - wo ex , he ac le .
12 as si an co po ou , th ba - pr al ca be ex to t ta sl as we as ta va ( si et al . , 12 ) .
th al ta pr in up we an bi of a ne ne su th bo th va an th sl er ar si mi .
12 ac im ac mo
in ex wi eb on a si ro na ta sh a si sp in le wh th ro ag ha ac to hi ac ac mo ( mi an th , 12 ) .
if th ac mo ar no su ac , ho , th ro pe ca se su fr th an .
th is be th ex sl mi ve we be wr an mi ge .
th ob ra an es qu fo re on li ag le an kn tr : ho ca a ro ag de wi in pr kn ? cl , if th ag la tr ex , an in le bi mi be po an mi .
bu ev in th wo ca , a le me th em pr le do kn sh no ta mo ti fo le co th a le me th do no ut pr kn at al .
ho ca th le av th da ef ar fr po pr kn ?
in eb , ma sl ar id an th in is gr re .
mo sp , th ac of th ex sl is es ba up th ob pr er of th ac mo .
fo ex , if th ac mo pe po - fa pr th ob ep , th es ac of al sl wi be 12
li , if fo so of th ac mo in th ch of mo de ha pr in st pr , th co es ac wi be cl to ze .
th ac of th sl ar no us wh tr th ta ne .
si ta pr al to we ea tr pa in , th es ac ca be us to de th ra wi wh va le an sl le ar we wh le th ta co .
mo sp , in eb th st - si fo we up is mu by th es sl ac wh le sl .
as il el ( mi an th , 12 ) , we sl tr by th ac wa fo to su re th im of ma sl re fr in ac mo .
we ev eb us ni di se of ac mo th we tr wi di am of tr da .
wi we - tr ac mo in th si ro do , th sa sp wa ob as be .
wi in in ac mo , th pe of eb ap th of st re le wi kn tr .
in th ex , eb de gr wi in er in th ac mo .
th re ar in si th in th fe of li le al th ar ab to be fr pr le bi , ev if th bi is po .
12 a co ex : le to pi up a cu
we wi pr so in re ob wi ou he - 12 ro .
th fa , we pr in th ef of pr le kn on th
fi 12 th ro us it ma an a so se to se th di to a cu an to pi it up .
le sp fo ne co le ta .
we th tr th ac mo - el be wi ma co tr da .
th ro ag ha to le a po fo ap an gr a cu .
th ro at ha , sh ag in fi 12 , us a ha - mo so se to ob it en .
so da wa pr to es th di an di to th cl ob , wh wa us as th wo st de .
ro ac we fo ( in ) , tu ( de ) , an gr .
po re wa re fo su gr , an ne re fo un gr as we as fo lo si of th cu .
in th ex , ac we mo by th se ne , on fo ea ac .
th ne fo th pa ac fo ( in ) an tu ( de ) pr th di an th or to th cu ( on hi la wi 12 un ) , wh th mo fo gr pr th pr th a pr - gi , op - lo gr ro wo ma to pi up th cu ( fo hi un ) .
al ac mo we pr - le fr ap tw hu tr ep co an av of ve st ea , wh we ma co be .
fi 12 sh as an ex th ac mo fo th gr ac .
si th pa ac mo mo th pr of su of th gr ro , th re fu wa si th id ma rs = s ( wi th co de 12 ) .
th ev fu q wa al mo by th di ne , on fo ea ac ( 12 hi un ea ) .
af le th ac mo , th si tr ep fo th ev ne sh in fi 12 we pr by a hu te wh co th ro .
we ap a ve of t d ( su , 12 ) wi = 12 : 12 an wa q - le ( wa , 12 )
12 de 12 12 de 12
fi 12 ac mo fo th ac mo gr .
th x an y ax me ag th an an di to th cu .
th z ax pl th ex su of th gr ac , i . e . , th pr th th gr su .
wi ex re ( li , 12 ) fo le co .
fi 12 il th le q fu fo th gr ac wi ( ri ro ) an wi ( le ro ) em th ac mo an eb .
in th in st of le , wh li da is ye av , th ge bi fr th pr - le ac mo is ap .
al no of th q fu ha ye co , th q fu le us eb ha a sh th is mo co , an wh is un to be gu ba so on th fe ob tr po wi no in kn .
fo ex , ev af pr si ep th pl le pr pr po re so ba up th an of th cu , wh th co eb me ha al le th gr wi fa if th cu is to fa aw .
th in , ho , is no re in th tr ep ( fi 12 ) , si th is no si ex of an at to gr a cu fa aw .
it ra se th th sl of th mo we co in th ta ev fu .
th il th ef of th sl in eb : th ev fu le wi eb di th co of th di of th cu an th su of th gr ac fr th ne ne ac mo .
if th ac mo we le in an ea co le ta , th wo be a si sy ef be th .
th eb re in th se ar in .
th ar pr be th in th ta - in kn , on le , ca be su tr by eb wh le th gr ta .
th ar al pr si th ev eb in a re ro do , un th re pr in ( mi an th , 12 ) , ( th an mi , 12 ) .
ho , th fa we di no co en
fi 12 si tr ep fo le co , la by 12 to 12
th ho ax me th an of th cu , re to th ro bo , an th ve ax me th di to th cu in a lo sc .
su gr ar la wi + , un wi .
no th so of th ep in fo an tu .
tr da to le a co po fo ap an gr th cu wi ei me .
fu re wi ch th sy du th fu co of le un co .
it wi al ex wi fa of re ta , su as ap an gr di ob , in cu th li on th
12 eb an li ro le
wh le do eb te us in th co of li ag le ? in th se we ma th re as th al co le pr of th ro ag pl in th ve sa en .
if th is th ca , an ty of mo of th ro an it en ar pr ca fo tr ta - in kn be th in co le pr .
in eb , ta - in in is re by ne ne ac mo .
th mo bi ge wh le co vi th pr of ex an an ob ep .
eb is a me fo li ag le , si it le an re - us le kn th is in of th pa co le pr at ha .
al th in ex de in th pa do no fu de th po , eb is ab to ef re re - wo
wi an tr , 12 ep
wi an tr , 12 ep
fi 12 ev fu fo th ac gr af pr 12 ( up ro ) an 12 ( lo ro ) tr ep , an wi ( le co ) an wi ( ri co ) us th ac mo fo bi th ge .
ex by pr le bi .
in re ex wi a si ro pr el ( mi an th , 12 ) , we ob a si sp - up by a fa of 12 to 12 wh pr - le ac mo we em .
it is im to me th we ex eb to be ev mo ef if th di of th st sp is hi .
th is be fo ea si ob eb ex a d - di sl ve fr th en , if d if th di of th in sp .
ou co is th wi ac do th th ge im sc li wi th nu of in fe ( e . g . , we wo ex a th or of ma im fo a ne wi 12 in fe ) , si ea de ex by eb ca be vi ro as su in eq to on ne tr ex fo ea of th d in di .
th co is ro co wi ou ex in
th si ro do .
th re pe im mi in ev mo if hi - or de ar ex , wh is no ye th ca in eb .
it is im to no , ho , th th qu of th ac mo is cr fo th pe of eb .
wi in ac mo , eb wi no pe be th a pu in le pr .
th do no su .
ap to th li le pr wi al be at mo as ef as no - tr ap th ro so it rs co le pr in it li .
th de sy ef oc la , wh th ag ha le an ap do - sp bi , wh it is mo ma .
12 li le in mu en
in th pr se we fo on a ce ty of li ro le pr , na pr wh de wi a si en .
we wi no fo on a mo ge ty of li - le sc , in wh th en di fo th in co le ta .
as po ou in se 12 , th ar qu a fe ro le sc wh a ro ha to le co in wh fa of en .
fo ex , a va cl ro mi ha to le to cl di bu .
al , an au ve mi ha to le na in se ty of te .
mu - en sc pr le po fo tr kn .
at a rs gl , tr kn se ha , if th en is no th sa fo al co le ta .
bu ev in th ty pr th ar in th ma be le an us as a bi .
th ke ob is th al li le sc in th sa ro , th sa ef , th sa se , al th mi ha to de wi a va of en an co le ta th .
ap to th ty of li le pr th ai at le th ch of th se an ef of th ro , as we as in in th en , if th ar an .
th pr of le an tr ta - in kn is th sa as in th pr se th ty of kn th is tr di .
so fa , th ha be li sy re on th ge ty of li ro le sc .
in th re of th se we wi no de a ge le me , bu a pa ap to le th ch of th ro se an th en .
us th he - 12 ro as an ex , we wi de ho in se mo ca re a kn bi wh is in of th pa en at ha .
fi 12 th ro ex an un en .
no th ob in th mi of th la .
ou la ca ma ma so va , an is a ha te fo so - ba na .
fo ex , so of th ch ab so al co , an ar th ha to de by so .
12 le to in se
wh ki of in ca be le ac mu en ? tw ob - ti ar cr fo th ap de he .
fi , th ro an it se ar th sa fo ea en .
se , th mi be re in th en - me th ca be le as we .
in th se we wi de a ne ne ap to le th ch of th ro se , as we as th of ty in en .
th ta of th mo he - 12 ro is to ex un bu ( th , 12 ) .
fa a ne in en su as th la en de in fi 12 , th ro ha to wa ar an to us it se to av co .
in th ex ta th ro us tw of it se : a ro so se is mo on th he of th ro , as sh in fi 12
th ro al mo it wh en to de st or sl wh .
ne re is re fo co wh ca be de us th wh en .
po re is re fo en re wh th ro ha no be be .
in , th ro do no po an kn ab it se an th en it wi fa th it li .
se ar un 12 - di ve of oa ( so sc ) , al wi a si bi th en th st of th wh .
in or to si le , we as th th ro ha ac to it x - y - co
fi 12 ta - in kn : ( a ) se in ne r an ( b ) co ne c .
in a gl re fr ( me th or of th ro ) . 12 na in un en is cl a li ro le pr .
in , th ro ha to ex co , si th in kn do no su to pr fr th .
co wi be pe by ne re .
in or to tr kn , th ro th ha to le ho to in it se in or to pr co .
th kn is re - us fo ea en th ro wi fa ov it li .
af so in ex , th ro sh be ab to ma in ne , un wo wh su av co wi
we wi no de a pa of ne wh le se - sp kn th ca be re - us ac mu en .
th se in fu , de by r , ma se in ou ca a so sc re in - ma .
mo sp , r ev fo ar lo cl to th ro th pr fo a co , ba on a si so sc .
fi 12 sh r .
in to th ne is a ve of so va , to wi th co of th qu po x; y re to th ro lo co fr .
th ou of th ne - wo is 12 , if th in pr a co fo th po , an 12 , if th ne pr fr - sp .
th fu ca be le by st su le al , if th ro ke tr of al se re an of al lo wh it co ( an wh it di no co ) .
as th ro op , it co ma th la oc re an fr - sp , wh is us to fo tr ex fo th se in ne r .
as us , th ro us ba - pr to le r .
in or to pr th pr ro ha fr re - wo co , we
12 if th ro wh ar pe , th x - y - po ca be ca in by de re .
th ro at ha , ho , is no pr en , an af 12 to 12 mi of op th re co us de si fr th in es .
an ap to co su co er is br de in ( th , 12 ) .
( a ) se in
fi 12 ca do kn in th ne r an c .
( a ) se in an ( b ) co va ar sh fo th fo ex : 12
ha , 12
ha wi op do .
ha wi hu wa by , 12
co of a ro , 12
co wi ob , 12
se ob .
li in so me - me ( di ) , an th re da re in ( a ) th ex co re fo su ar ( da va in ne re ) , an in ( b ) th co le ( da va in lo co ) .
de a ro si an us it fo ge th tr pa fo th in ne .
in th si th wh ro en is kn , an tr ex th ma se to oc in ca be ex ea .
in a fe mi th si ro ex it si wo , co
fi 12 ma bu : ( a ) ra , no se in on an ex pa wi 12 me .
( b ) re mo , co to th la sh in fi 12 ( la do is to bo le ) .
th pa of th ro is al pl ( fr ri to le ) , de th ex of th in un la .
in th ne st , th ro wi pa th do of th la an ex th ha .
a to of 12 12 tr ex .
si ex fo se in us r ar sh in fi 12 .
th ci in th ce re th ro , an th li or to th ro re di se by th so .
th pr of ne re , as pr by th r , is di in th ci re ar th ro : th da th re , th hi th pr of co .
as ca be se fr th gu , th ne r ha su le ho to in so si .
if so va ar sm ( me th th so si bo ba ea ) , th ne pr an ob ne .
li , la va re ar in as fr - sp .
th ne ha al le in in th tr en .
fo ex , ty si of wa ar kn .
in fi 12 - 12 , fo ex , th ro pr a lo ob of a ce wi , bu be th ob it pr a co lo pr fo co .
th pr is su , gi th so se ca se th ob .
in th tr en , ho , re be wa ha to be fr fa of , wh ex th x - ra pr by th ne .
th pr cl ev th th se in ne do no on re kn ab th ro se , bu al kn ab ce in of th en at ha .
fi 12 la an oo : ( a ) mo , an ( b ) co ma .
12 bu ma
we wi no mo th ne fo a se ne , th so - ca co ne c , wh is re to r .
as ca be se fr fi 12 , a si so sc ca be us to bu a sm lo ma ar th ro .
if th ro mo ar an ta se re , th re in ca be co to fo a ma of th wo .
ho , th wi be po in th wo wh th in fr mu se wi di .
th ar tw ma re fo co in : fi , so se , li an se , ar no de .
th of fa to de ce ob su as sm su or ob wi ab su li so of ou of ch .
se , so ar bl fo ar be ob .
he in fo re be an ob wi be in tr re th av pr of oc ( th pr ) .
th ob ma it ne to de a me th re co be di pr .
we wi ap th pr by ex mo th re of th in - pr , an us th re as we fa wh co mu in .
mo sp , co a te ph fo th in ne - wo r .
fo so of th te ex , r wi ma to pr th ta va cl .
fo ot , ho , th wi be a si re er fo th
12 se ( mo , 12 ) an ( el , 12 ) fo re ap to ma bu an ro
fi 12 ma co du th rs aa au ro co in sa jo , ju 12
th ma re th kn of th ro af st 12 of th co .
in th an th pr st , th ro ha to nd an ap te vi ma po , wh av co wi ob .
li ma th bo of th co ar .
th ma is so in si it wa bu on tw se da , an th lo of th ro an th ob we no qu id .
we co fo su in by de th co ov
re gi ab .
th er is us to tr a se ne c , wh is ca co ne .
th in to c is th sa as th in to r .
th ta ou is th ( no ) pr er of r .
af tr , c th pr th ex de of th se in , de by cs x; y .
th co in th in rs x; y is th gi by ( ci : 12 ) ln cs x; y .
wh mu se in ar co , th in in va ar av , we by th co va .
fi 12 sh co va fo th in sh in fi 12 .
he da re co to lo co .
li , li re in hi co .
as ca be se fr th ex , th co in re be ob is ge lo .
lo co is al pr fo bo re be fr - sp an ob , th do no su , si so va de ob in a 12 co .
th do no te wh in th co an ob wa fo .
co , th ne - st of ob is ha to pr .
si to th se in ne , th co -
de ne re kn ab th se an th en of th ro th ca be tr ac en .
it is im to no th bo ne , r an c , re le kn th is in of th pa en at ha .
th ne ac as a bi in th mo pr , wh th ro co an in mo of a ne en .
th fi 12 to 12 sh so ex ma th we ob fo di en .
we us th ne r an c to nd mo of ou la ( 12 ) .
a si no - ad al wa us fo ex th ba pl mi - co pl to th cl un re .
mo of th la an th ha ar sh in fi 12 an 12
al bo ne we tr in si , th su pr th ro fr co ob .
th sa ne r an c we us on a au ro co , th wa he du th aa co in ju 12 in sa jo .
he th ta an en di fr th en th ro ha se pr : th en wa a la ar ll wi pa bo , an th ta wa to nd an to na to 12 vi ma po .
th ro ha no in ab th lo of th ob an th po .
it ha to ex an mo th en by it .
th na im ( we na th ro od ) wa fa mo co th wh is de he .
od na wa ma - ba , an th ad ma bu pr wa a co of od co .
th ro em th sa ne th we ge by th si an te in ou ex in th la .
af a to of 12 mi op du tw se st of th co th ro pr th ma sh in fi 12
th ne pr ma th we ac en to pr th ro fr an co wi an ob .
th al al th ro to nd cl - to - op pa to th go lo .
12 se in an li ro le
wh is th co of th ap to th pr of li ag le ? of co , le se in do no ne ha to be vi as a me fo le bi , an th pr me is by no me a ge le sc fo li le pr .
ho , fo th pu of th pa we wi ch ma bu in te of li ro le .
ob in ea ne en th ro cl ha to le co .
th is be in , wh th ro fa a ne , un en , it kn do cl no su to ge ac th ma re .
th ro th gr le a po fo ac ge st - by - st , an th in ma pr th fr fo le , th kn ga ll du th co of in wi th wo .
bu in tw - di oc ma , to wi th st pl ro th ge ac us th ma , is le co .
th , le ne ne se in of a pr pe fo re in li ro le in mu en .
al bo th en an th go di fo th in ro co ta in
ou ex , we ha de th kn tr co dr re re - wo ex .
th ro di kn ab co in bo re - wo en wi ev ha ex on , so ba on pr le kn .
we be th me wh ac an ut mo of th se , ef ( no de he ) , an in in th en ar pr ca fo ef ro le in mo co li le
12 re wo
ap to kn tr in th li le pr ca be vi as te fo ac fu ap bi .
va re ha no th im of le bi an tr kn ac mu ro co le ta .
th ca ro be gr in th fo ca -
le mo .
ac mo ar pe th mo st wa to le an tr ta - in kn , if al in co le ta de wi a si en .
ap th ut ac mo di - fe in th ty of ac mo th em , an th wa th ac mo ar us to bi le co .
su ( su , 12 ) pr a sy th le ac mo , li eb .
he us th mo fo sy hy ex th re th co po .
in hi ex he fo a tr - do sp in le co wh us th ac mo .
eb di fr th ap in th it us it ac mo fo ex re - wo ob - se , an in th pr a me to re fr er in th ac mo .
li ( li , 12 ) de a me wh pa ex is me - or an re re wh le co .
th co of pa ex fo a no - ge ac mo .
li al re si sp wh us hi re me .
as me ab , ex re wa al us fo ne ne tr in eb .
th fa , th ha be li re on le mo th ca ac as a bi in li le pr wi mu ro en .
le be an ab .
a se wa of le an tr - ri kn ac ta ar be .
be ar co ( po ) wi lo co th te be re to re co .
re - in le , fo ex , ca be vi as a te fo le be .
be fo ab ac sp , si th ba ac of th ro mi be re by th ac of in a be .
th , wi ap - pr be ab ac sp ca be fo , an hi of ac ca be id .
le be ac le co by re th se sp of al po po , ma fo tw re .
fi , th nu - be of be is of sm th th nu of ac .
se , be
ty ar se fo lo pe of ti .
th la ar is us mo im an pr a st bi fo le co .
si ( si , 12 ) , ( si , 12 ) re a te to le co ta by rs le co fo si ta ba on re le .
th co re re be .
th hi - le po is le in th ab ac sp fo by th lo le be .
in or to re - re ev th hi - le co as a pu re fu , si ma se re as on th ty of ta an se in .
in hi do th , li ( li , 12 ) de a re sc fo le be - ha , ac hi an ab .
he as th a hu in te a ro a se of el be wh su fo al ta wh th ro wi fa ov it li .
un si , hi ap do no gu th op co ca be le in th li .
re , da an hi ( da an hi , 12 ) pr a sy th us a pr - gi hi de to le co on di le of ab .
ea le of ab di in th gr - si of th se in , re in di - fe sp co .
si th sy le re co on ea le us re le al , it is un fo wh ty of pr th pr wi le su , si es in ma be mi wh pr in se in to pu re
le in fu ap bi .
an , mo st - wa ap to le an tr kn is to le th in bi of th fu ap us fo le co di .
at ( at , 12 ) pr a sc fo le di me fo in - ba , lo ap sc .
in hi al , sc fa ar le th al to we di in fe di .
su ( su , 12 ) re a fa of le sc th al to le in bi si to ka lt ( ka , 12 ) .
al he di no de hi me in th co of le co , hi re ha be mo by tr kn ac mu co le ta .
le re .
re , to wi in bi , de - te th wa a fu ap ge fr ex .
ma re - se ha fo on le ap re in or to le bi .
fo ex , pr ( pr , 12 ) de se ap th al to re - us le re in hi un of ne ne .
al sh co em de th th tr co si re th nu of tr ep re fo th co of th ba - pr al , sh on fo oc im in th ge .
a si - il te is re by sh an sh ( sh an sh , 12 ) .
so re ha st kn tr if se ta ar le si .
fo ex , su an ke ( su an ke , 12 ) de th mu le ta of ce ty ca su - fu gu an im ge .
in hi ap , he gi hi to ne
ne in fo of ad ou un th le a cl re ta .
th hi co th in re de by th ne .
in a mo ge wa , ca ( ca , 12 ) re pr to le wh co of ta in pa , us a sh in re .
he co - je th mu - ta le wi ma ne ne le al sc to mo co le ta .
bo ap to th li le pr de in th pa fa in th rs ca .
in eb , th ro le ac mo wh bi ge in th ev fu .
se in fu ar in mo of th se an th en of th ro .
in th ro ex ta , th ro th le mo of it an ty as of it en , wh bi th co of th in ma .
as po ou ea , ac mo ar we - su if th en is th sa fo al le ta , wh se mo ar ap fo li ag le in mu en .
in th pa we ha pr a li le pe fo au ro .
we pr no to st ro le pr in is , bu in th co of th mu of le pr th a ro wi fa ov it li .
li ro le op th op fo tr of le kn .
th kn ma be us as a bi wh le co .
al co le me th al th tr of kn ar mo co as mo al th so is co le pr , ro le it be - co ea .
ro th me an tr kn re le on re - wo ex an th le fa .
th is be pr le kn ma ac as a kn bi th ma pa re th pu sy bi of in le al .
we ha de wi tw co ap th po sy ef of kn tr .
th ap ad tw ma ty of li ag le sc , na th th ar de in a si en , an th th ar no .
we st be th kn tr is es fo sc ro le al to mo re an co do .
ex pr le kn si le co .
th re su ou fu cl th le be ea , if it is em in a li le co .
we th th cm ro le gr an th od te at cm fo in - ab di th co to th re .
we al th ry ma
fi 12 ( a ) th un of bo ro rh ( ma by re wo in , in . ) , ( b ) ma ( ap 12 12 me ) co by rh at th aa - 12 ro co , us th te de in th pa .
fo hi in he in re eb .
th re wa sp in pa by th av la , wr re an de - ve ce , ae sy di ( af ) , u .
ai fo , wr - pa af , oh 12 - 12 un co f1 - 12 - c - 12 , ar or no .
12 an by a gr fr si co .
th vi an co co in th do ar th of th au an sh no be in as re th of po , ei ex or im , of th u . s .
go or si co .
si th pa wa su , eb wa su ap to a va of re - wo le ta .
in ( mi an th , 12 , th , 12 , th , 12 ) , re of ap eb to mo ro na us th cm xa ro ar re .
eb ha al be ap to ro pe ( mi et al . , 12 ) ,
( os et al . , to ap ) , ob re ( th an mi , 12 ) an th ga of ch ( th , 12 ) .
in ( th an mi , 12 ) , a de of th li le pr in th co of su le ca be fo .
th ap to in so se fo bu oc ma re in se .
12 ha be , wi sl mo , su em in th un of bo en rh at th 12 aa mo ro co ( bu et al . , to ap ) .
cu , ma ar ro bu fo la in ar .
