it do ha be ap
fo pu re an sa it di is un .
mo re on ma le ha fo on sc in wh a le fa a si , is le ta .
th li le fr as in th th le en a mu of re le ta ov it li , pr th op fo th tr of th pa st li le in th co of bi cl .
it pr th in ap , in wh kn is tr vi a le mo of th in of th do .
re on le to re ob fr co im de su ge ca if in ar le an us to bi ' su le .
th re is sp in pa by th na sc fo un aw ir - 12 , an by th wr la , ae sy ce , ai fo ma co , us , an th ad re pr ag ( ar ) un gr nu f1 - 12 - 12 - 12
vi an co co in th do ar th of th au an sh no be in as ne re of po or en , ei ex or im , of ns , wr la or th un st go .
ke : ex - ba ne ne le , le in , li le ,
ma le , ne ne , ob re
st in su le is co wi le an un ta fu fr a fi co of tr da .
th fr of su le ca be ch as fo .
le f de th se of al po ta fu .
fo ex , in a ro ar do f mi be th se of al ki fu fo ro wi th jo .
it is co as th al fu in f ar de ov a si in sp , de by i , an a si ou sp , de by 12
th le ha a se of hy th it ca co , de by h , wh mi or mi no be di fr f .
fo ex , th se h co be th se of al ar ne ne wi 12 hi un ( ru et al . , 12 , or , al , th se of al de tr wi de le th 12 ( qu , 12
th th pa , le us ma th si as th al fu in f ar bi cl , by re th ou to 12 = ( 12 , 12 ) .
we wi re to in th fa in cl i as po in , an to th th fa in cl 12 as ne in .
to le an un ta fu f* e f , th le is gi a fi co of in -
ou ex ( tr ex )
wh ar po di by no .
th go of th le is to ge a hy h e h , su th th de
e = e pr ( i ) ! lf ( i ) - h ( i ) 12
be th ta fu f* an h on fu ex wi be as sm as po .
he pr ( i ) is th pr di ac to wh th ex ar ge .
pr is ge un to th le , as is f* .
st su le fo on le a si ta fu f* , an tr da is as to be av on fo th on fu .
ho , if fu in f ar su re , it ca be he to ha ac to tr ex of ot fu f in f as we .
fo ex , co a ro wh ta is to fi an fe va ob , us it ca fo ob re .
he le f be th se of re fu fo al ob , on fo ea po ta ob , an th ta fu f* e f co to so ob th ro mu cu le to re .
x , th tr se , wi co of po an ne ex of th ob .
th ta of th le is to fi an h wh mi e .
in or to do so , th ro mu le to re th ta ob in of ro , tr , sc in si , ch of li an so on .
cl , th mo pr th le ' s in un of th in , th fe tr ex in x it wi re fo re le .
be th in ar co to al fu in f , im sh ot ob ca pr ad in fo le ab th in , an he au th tr se x .
th ex il th li le fr ( th an mi , 12
li le , a co of re le pr is en ov th li of th sy .
wh le th n - th ta , th le ma th em kn ga in th
" * a sp of po hy h " * a se of tr ex x of so un ta fu f* e f , dr
wi pr di pr .
" * in li le : a co of su se y = ( xk ) , wh ch
ot fu fk e f
a hy h e h th mi 12 pr ( i ) ii ( i ) - h ( i ) ii
ta 12 : st su le an li su le .
pr n - 12 ta to im it pe .
th pa co a pa fo of li le in wh th le ta co to le bo cl ( co ) , an in wh th pr ex co of tr ex of ot cl fu fr th sa fa f .
mo fo , in ad to th se of tr ex x fo th ta fu f * , th le is al pr se of ex
xk = ( ( i , gk ( i ) ) )
( k = 12 , . . . , ig )
of ot fu g = ( g , , g1 , . . . ) c f ta fr th sa fu fa f .
si th ad da su le f* , we sh ca ea xk a su se fo x .
th se of al av su se , ( xi , : k = i , . . . , ig , is de by y .
no th th su se xk ar no ne ge ac to th sa pr di .
ta i su th pr de of st su le an th li su le pr co he .
in li le , th le is gi a co of su se y in ad to th tr se x an th hy sp y .
su se ca be de fo a va of re - wo le ta .
fo ex , co a pe co as wh ta it is to re it us ' s ha .
f is th se of al ma fr ha - dr cu to le la , on fo ea po us .
fo ea us , i . e . , fo ea f e f , th as co st le to re ha fr sc .
ho , ma ch wi co - oc fo mu us , an on wo ex a le wh in ex fr ot us to ge be .
a se ex , to wh in ma le te ha fr be ap , is st ma pr .
wh ma of th su te in th do re un , it se to be we - ac th st ca be pr be by le fr da re en fa of st , ra th le ab a si st in is .
cl , ce pa ca be fo th ap to va st , an kn ab th re wh tr da is li wi mo li im th pr ac of a le sy .
th li le fr st in th pa di fr st su le in th in ad to th tr da x , su se y ar al pr .
th ra tw
ho ca a le us su se to ge mo ac ?
un wh co wi a le be fr su se ? ob , th mo cl re th fu in f , th be .
bu ex wh re am th fu is re in or fo su se to be us ? wh ha if th fu in f ar no re at al ? ca su se mi ge an , if so , un wh co ?
th pa do no pr ge an to th qu .
in , it pr on pa ap , na le in fu , wh re on ce as on th fu se f .
it al pr em ev th th ap to us su se ca si im ge ac wh le to re ob ba on vi
12 th in ap
th in ap fi le an in fu o fr th su se in y .
th fu is th us to bi th le as it se a hy to fi th tr ex x of th ta fu .
le y = ( xk ) be a co of su se fo le f* fr x .
re ou as th al fu in f ha bi ou va .
he , ea ex in a su se is ei po ( i . e . , ou 12 ) or ne ( i . e . , ou 12 ) .
co a ta fu , fk e f wi k e ( i . . . , jf ) , an a pa of ex , sa i e i an e i .
a lo in op " rk : i x i - -
( 12 , 12 ) is a ma fr a pa of in ve de as fo :
if a ( i ) = fk ( j ) = i if fk ( i ) # a ( j ) if fk ( i ) = fk ( j ) =1
ba , th lo in op in wh bo in ar me of cl i ( po ex ) re to fk .
if rk ( i , j ) = 12 , th fk is in wi re to i an j .
no th po an ne in ar no tr sy in r .
th lo in op rk ( k = i , . . . , if ) de a ( gl ) in fu fo f , ( 12 , 12 ) .
fo tw ex , i an j , ao ( i , j ) is 12 if th ex a k fo
de by a : i x i wh rk ( i , j ) = 12
li , a ( i , j ) is 12 if th ex a k fo wh rk ( i , j ) = 12 :
if 12 e l , . . . , if ) wi tk ( i , j ) = 12 if ( , . . . .
jf ) wi ( i , j ) =1
th in fu be li an in op , bu it do no de on k .
it is im to no th th in fu ca be il - de .
th is th ca if th ex tw ex wh in on ta fu bo be to cl 12 , wh in an th fa in
12 , j e i , k , k ' e ( 12 , . . . , if ) : rk ( i , j ) = i a tk , ( i , j ) = 12
in su ca th in ma is am an is no ev a ma fu .
a cl of fu f is sa to ob th in pr if it in fu is no - am ' .
th in pr is a ce as fo th in ap to li cl le .
th co of in fu is qu po .
as f ho th in pr .
if a is kn , ev tr in i fo an ar fu fk e f ca be co cl , gi th is at le on po in of fk av .
to se , as ip , e i is kn to be a po in fo fk .
th fo an in i e i , a ( i , iz ) wi be 12 if an on if fk ( i ) = 12
al th in pr im a re on th fu fa f , it ho tr fo qu a fe re - wo pr .
fo ex , a fu fa ob th in pr if al po cl ( of al fu fk ) ar di .
on su fu fa is th fa of ob re fu de ov di ob .
12 le wi in
in th li le re st in th pa , a - is no gi .
ho , an ap to o - ca be le .
si ao do no de up th sp ta fu f* , ev su se xk e y ca be us to tr a ' , as lo as th is at le on po in av in xk .
fo al k e ( i , . . . , ig ) , tr ex fo a " ar co fr ex i , j e xk :
he rk mu be de , i . e . , at le on of th ex i an j mu be po un fk .
in th ex de be , ao is ap by tr an ar ne ne us th ba al ( ru et al . , 12
on o , ha be le , on wa to mi f* is to pi an ar po tr in in x , an to us o " fo cl , as de ab .
ho , ao mi no be ac en to cl co , us be of mo li , no , or la of tr da .
in fa , th ex re de in th ne se in th th ar be wa to em th in ne .
12 ex sl to gu ge
th re of th se de an al ap wh em a hy ne ne le al fo le f* .
th al is a sp ca of bo th ta - ' it is ge ac fo th in fu to be am , as lo as th li fo ge
am cl pa of ex is ze .
fi 12 : fi va an sl : le f* be th ta fu fo wh th ex ( x 12 , f* ( x1 ) ) , ( x1 , 12 ( x1 ) ) , an ( x 12 , f* ( x 12 ) ) ar kn .
ba on th po th le mi ge th hy hi .
if th sl ar al kn , th le ca do mu be : h , .
pr al ( si et al . , 12 an th ex - ba ne ne le ( eb ) al ( mi an th , 12
he we wi re to it as eb .
su we ar gi a tr se x , an an in ne a wh ha be tr us a co of su se y .
we ar no in in le f* .
on co , of co , ig th in ne an th su se al an tr a ne ne pu ba on th tr da x .
th tr se x im a co of co on th ou va fo th hy h .
if h is re by an ar ne ne , as is th ca in th ex re be , th ba ( bp ) al ca be us to fi x .
eb do th , bu it al de ad co us th in ne .
mo pr , in ad to th va co in x , eb de co on th sl ( ta ) fo th hy h .
to se ho th is do , co a tr ex i , ta fr th tr se x .
le ip , be an ar po ex in x .
th , o ( i , ip ) de wh i an iz ' s be to th sa cl - in th is re av , si we ar gi th cl of i an ip .
ho , pr th cl us th in ne al al us to de th ou - in sl of th in ne .
th sl me th se of cl me wi re to th in fe in i .
th is do by co th pa de of a wi re to i at ( i , ip ) :
ji ( i )
" - - 12 12 ( , i p
vi ( i ) me ho in ch in i wi af th cl of i .
si ar ( - , ip , ) is an ap to f* , vi ( i ) ap th sl vi ( i ) .
co , in of fi tr ex of th ty ( i , f ( i ) ) , eb fi tr ex of th ty
gr de ca be us to fi tr ex of th ty , as ex in ( si et al . , 12
12 il th ut of th ad sl in in fu fi .
no if mu po in ar av in x , sl ca be de fo ea on of
le xp c x be th se of po tr ex in x .
le x ' = 12
fo ea tr ex ( i , f* ( 12 ) ) e xp do :
( a ) co vi ( i ) =x 12 ( i ) ( i
xp , e xp
( b ) le ' = x ' + ( i , f* ' ( i ) , vz ( i ) )
fi x ' .
s ) us th in ne a .
ta 12 : ap of eb to le wi in ne .
in th ca , av sl ar us to co th ta fu :
r ( i , i ( ci : 12 ) ~ ) ( |
he xp c x de th se of po ex in x .
th ap of th eb al to le wi in ne is su in ta 12
ge sp , sl in ex fr th in ne is a li ap - pr to th va an in of f at a sp po in l .
al th in di sl wi be ap ze , wh al ot th wi be la .
fo ex , in th ob re do de ab , it mi ha th co is an im fe fo cl wh br is no .
th is ty th ca in si wi ch il .
in th ca , th in ne co le to ig br , an he th sl of it cl wi re to br wo be ap ze .
th sl fo co , ho , wo be la , gi th sl co ch im th th ob wo be to a di cl .
wh tr th cl ne , sl pr ad in ab th se of th ta fu wi re to it in fe .
he , th in ne ca be sa to bi th le of th cl ne .
ho , si eb tr on bo sl an va si , er in th bi ( in sl du to ap in th le in ne ) ca be ov by th ob tr ex va in x .
12 ob re
to il th in ne in a re - wo do , we co a da of 12 co ca im of se di ob , as de in fi .
12 ( le co ) .
bl an wh
ha br an bl me de on pe
th ob we ch so as tc pr co an si cu he to th di .
th ba of al im co of pl , wh ca .
di im of th sa ob va by th re lo an or of th ob wi th im .
in 12 of al re , th lo of th li so wa al ch , pr br re at ra lo in va ca .
in so of th im th ob we ba - li , in wh ca th ap to be bl .
12 sh ex of tw of th ob , th sh an th gl .
12 im of ea ob we re .
in al ou ex im we en by a 12 - di ve , pr co , br an sa in fo a do - sc im of si 12 by 12
ex fo th do - sc im ar sh in fi 12 ( ri co ) an 12
al ea ob ap to be ea to re fr th or im , in ma ca we fo it di to vi cl ob fr th su im .
ho , su wa ne to ke th ne at a re si .
th se of ta fu , f , wa th se of fu th re ob , on fo ea ob .
fo ex , th in fu fo th bo , fb . , wa i , if th im sh a bo , an 12 ot .
si we on pr di ob , al se of po in we di .
co , f ob th in pr .
th se of hy h wa th se of al ar ne ne wi 12 in un , 12 hi un , an i ou un , as su a ne wa em to re th ta fu .
th ob wa to le to re sh , i . e . , f* = fs .
fi ot ob , na th bo , th ha , th ha , th ca an th bo , we us to co th su se v .
in or to av an ov in th tr se x an th su se in y , we ex us pi of a se ob , gl , as co fo fa .
12 tr th in ne
ea of th fi su se in y , xb , xh . , , xh . mm , xy , an xo , co 12 im of th co ob ( po ex ) an 12 ra se im of ot ob ( ne ex ) .
wh co tr ex fo th in ne , we ra se a su of 12 , 12 pa of im , 12 of wh we ta fo tr an 12 fo cr - va .
12 of th fi tr an cr - va ex we po ex fo th in ne ( i . e . , bo im sh th sa ob ) , an th ot 12 we ne ex .
fi 12 : ob ( le ) an co ne in ( ri ) .
a hu im of a bo .
a ha , a ha , a co ca , an a bo we us to tr an te th in ne .
af , th cl ne wa tr to di th sh fr th gl .
in se at to co an in ne , us a va of ne to wi up to tw hi la , we ac a ma ge ac of 12 .
th re wa so un , si ra gu , by co , re in 12 ac - cu .
wh ap to th tw re un ob , th sh an th gl , th be in ne cl on 12 of al im pa co .
in or to im th re , we ap a le te th fo le by in ad tr in , ad fr is an ke , 12
( ca , 12
th te re on th as th in ad to th ! ea ta of in , so re le ta , us th sa in re an th sa tr da ( wi di ta va ) , ar av .
in of tr on a si ta , a ne is
fi 12 : im , al wi th co ne in , of th ob sh an gl .
th ex il so of th in in th ob re do .
tr on al ta si , us an au ou la th pr ad ou un fo th ad ta .
th te , wh is ca " le by hi " or " mu - ta le , " ha be fo to yi be ge ac , wh ca be at to th fa th al of th ta sh th sa hi un .
if ta ar su re , it al be hi re to be de , re in im ge .
in fa , th ap es an al me fo th li le pr , as di in se .
in th ob re do , a ta th is ob re to de wh or no tw im be to th sa cl is th ta of ac cl th tw im .
he , we ad tw se of 12 ou un to th in ne , wh we tr to de th cl of th ob sh in ei im .
a lo i - of - n en wa us to en th 12 di ob cl .
he , th au in ne ha i i ou un , on fo de if th tw im ar th sa or no an 12 fo cl im .
th la 12 un , ho , we us ex du tr th in ne , an di no pl an pa in su ap th in ne .
th cl ac of th ne wa si be th th ac of th si ou ne re ab .
af tr , th au ne ma to de wh or no tw ob be to th sa cl wi 12 ge ac .
it al ex 12 cl ac in
th ne ta , th re of th sh .
ob , bo ac ra ar si be
th th ac us th si ou ne .
12 la to re sh
ha tr th in ne , we we no in in tr th cl ne .
th ne us th th ex re he co of 12 in un , 12 hi un , an i ou un - no ef wa ma to op th ne to .
a to of 12 ex of im sh th sh an th gl we av fo tr an te th sh cl ne .
th ce qu re th in ap is to wh ex th in ne , wh us to bi th ta fu , im th ge ac of th cl
in or to el th ro of th in ne , we tr th cl ne us on tw tr ex : a ra se im of th sh ( po ex ) , an a ra se im of th gl ( ne ex ) .
sl we co us th pr le in ne .
si th co to th ta co , th gl , fo a un cl of im th do no ov wi an ot po cl fr th su se , sl co al be de us ne ex .
in of us eq .
( i ) , sl we ex fr th in ne us th ex mi :
12 i pn
he xt , , c x is th se of po ex in x , an x , .
= x - x . o is th se of ne ex .
( 12 ) di fr eq .
( 12 ) by ta al ne ex 12 , , s in ac , wh is ju by th fa th im of gl fo a cl di fr al ot ob .
12 sh th av ge cu as a fu of tr ep wi an wi th in ne .
th ge ac he wa me ov al 12 av im .
th cu sh th ge ac av ov 12 ex , ea tr us on ra se po an on ra se ne ex . 12 wi us th in ap , th av ge ac af 12 , 12 tr ep is 12 .
ho , us eb wi th in ne in ac to 12 du to th in co by th in sl .
th di ca be as in mu wa .
in te of re er , ba ey a mi ra th is 12 la th th of eb .
a se in is to lo at th pe in .
wh is de as th di in cl ac af le an be le , as th th ac be le is 12 .
12 : nn ' s pe in is 12 , wh is 12 ti be th ba ' s 12 .
fo ex , if a ne ne is tr us th tw im of a sh an th gl de in fi .
12 , pl ba cl on 12 of th te im co .
12 we us a fa le me th ad th am of mo on - li du le .
fi 12 : tr cu , wi ( so li ) an wi ( da li ) th in ne an eb , me on an in te se an av ov 12 ru , af pr on po an on ne tr ex .
he th ge ra is pa po , si th lo of th ob di , an ba mi co lo th cr fe fo ob re .
eb us th in ne pr a ne th is mu le se to ob lo , re in a 12 ge ac in th pa ex .
no th th ne le by eb pe si be th th in ne it us as a cl ( 12 ) .
th is be eb is tr on im of th sh an th gl , wh th in ne is no .
th im of mi sl be cl by lo at th ac th is ac wh sl ar co di .
if sl ar on ex by co an im wi it ( i . e . , bo im of th in ne ar eq ) , th av fi ac is 12 .
wh on pa di im ar us as in to th in ne , th re ac is 12 .
bo ac ar si sm th th 12 ac ac by mi th tw .
we al tr ex we th mi of sl .
in on ca , we us th pr ac of th do th ( lo ) as th we fa : th mo ac th in ne fo a pa tr ex , th st th we of th co sl in th mi .
th st , wh ha be fo to be us ac a va of do ( mi et al . , 12 , ( th , 12 re ab eq pe ( 12 ) in th ob re do .
th re sh no th al th re re to th cl ac af 12 , 12 tr ep , us ju on po an on ne tr ex .
as ca be se in fi .
12 , ba su fr so ov - fi , as th ac dr af a pe at ab 12 , 12 tr ep .
th av cl ac at th po in ti is 12 .
ho , du to la of da , it is im in th do to us ea st me th re on cr va , an it is un wh su me wo ha im th re fo ba si .
12 sh an re fo tr wi tw ex of bo sh an gl .
he , th di be eb an ba is ev wi .
eb ac 12
fi 12 : ( a ) av ge ac wh tr on tw po an tw ne tr ex .
( b ) ge ac fo di nu of tr ex af 12 , 12 tr ep .
fi ac , as op to 12 by pl ba .
co , ba ' s mi ra ex th of eb by 12 .
eb ' s pe in is 12 , wh is 12 ti be th ba ' s 12 .
re fo ex wi la tr se si ar de in fi .
as ca be se fr th fi , th di be th me de as th nu of tr in in .
eb , ho , co to pe sl be th pl ba .
th ma ou ex , as th ne fo ba kn de as th nu of tr ex in .
ho , th pr fo of th pa is le wh tr da in x is sc .
12 th ro of th in ne
th im cl ra , wh il th su tr of kn fr th su se vi th in ne , ra th qu wh ex ar th in re in th ne .
wh ty in do th sl co ?
a pl ( bu on ap ) me of th im of a fe is th ma of it sl .
th la th sl , th la th ef of sm ch in th fe on th cl , he th mo re th fe .
in or to em as th im of fe , av sl ma we co fo al in pi , av ov al 12 pa of tr in .
th la av sl ma wa fo fo co in : 12 .
in co , sa sl we , on av , on 12 ( th is 12 of th av fo co sl ) , an br sl on 12 ( 12 12 % ) .
th nu in th , ac to th in ne , co in wa mo im fo cl .
to ve th hy , we re ou ex om so of th im in .
mo sp , in on ex co in wa om , in a se sa , an br in a th .
th re
in ne cl , no eb 12 tr ex pe cl sa , af 12 , 12 tr ep im sh in fi .
12 12 tr ex pe cl on ob of sa cl us fo de sl on ob of di cl us fo de sl we sl by cl ac
ta 12 : su of th cl re li in th pa .
al nu ar av cl ra on un te da .
wi in ne wi in ne
12 12 %
co ou be th co in in do cl .
it is cl th wi co th ge ra in th te se ar po , al eb st ge be .
if sa or br is om , ho , th ge ra is ap eq to th re ob fo th fu im re ab .
ho , le re si mo tr ep in th ab of br in ( no sh he ) .
th an ot re re he ar su in ta 12
12 sh av sl ma fo th ta ca ( sh ) wi re to th th in fe , co , br an sa .
gr co in th th av sl fo an in pi is ze .
br an da co in st po an st ne sl , re .
no th th sl ar av ov al 12 ex us fo tr .
as is ea se , av co sl va ov th im , sh a sl po te on av .
av sa sl ar ap ze .
br sl , ho , ex a st ne te wh is st in th ce of th im .
on po ex fo th la ob is th fo : bo th sh an th gl ar da co to th ba .
sh ar , on av , la th gl , an he fi mo pi .
in ad , in th ma of im th ob wa so ne th ce of th im , wh th bo pi sh si mo no .
la of br in th im ce is th a go in fo th pr of th sh , as is cl re in th br sl de
fi 12 : sl of th ta co ( gl ) wi re to ( a ) co , ( b ) sa , an ( c ) br .
ev sl is av ov 12 ex .
wh ( bl ) co re po
fr th in ne .
th le ob re fo co an sa ca be at to th ef th op cl ar no - li in co an sa .
in or to di ob by co , fo ex , th ne ha to sp a sp in in co sp .
he , th co sl ca be ei po or ne de in th pa co of a pi , ca ea ot ou in th pl .
as po ou ea , sl pr fi - or in , an in ma we be hi in hi - or de .
ho , bo th su pe of eb as we as th cl co of sl ma an ge ac sh th eb ma to ex us in in in th do , ev if th in de si
12 al ap
wh in th pa we ha pr on pa ap to li le in th co of cl , ma ot ar po an se ca be fo in re li .
e le in re .
ot re re te to de mo ap hi la re fr mu ta .
fo ex , pr pr a me wh tr in by us an in re th wa de in ea le ta ( pr , 12
a si te ha be pr in ( sh an sh , 12
a se ex of le in re us mu ta fu is ca ' s mu - ta le al .
in hi ap .
mu , re ta ar tr si in a si ne ne , fo th ne to sh hi un .
he re th hi in re ar de wh le to im ge ( ca , 12
no th th re ma ou fi wh tr th in ne .
al th ap de be in re of th da by co mu fu in f wi th go of im ge .
" sp re fe .
an ap , wh be cl re to le in an le re , is to sp ir fe ( li , 12 , ( ca an fr , 12 ) .
if th se of ta fu f is su th - ac th bo - on a su th fe is re ( e . g . , th ti of da ma no ma fo ob re ) , a le sy ca em su se to fi th mo re fe .
on th ar di , th re hy sp is sm , wh re th sa co in le .
no th eb we th in of ir fe th ze - va sl eb .
" ad th da .
a di ap to li le is to mo th dr th tr se x or in th su se y .
fo ex , im th is a ge ! mo th ca be ap to al fu in f , bu it re th da is pr ea f e f re an in fi .
th is th ca , fo ex , in ap to sp ad .
sp ad co a fa of te st in sp re , in wh a co qu ad to th ac , vo , pi , or sp of an in sp ( se ( hi an wa , 12 fo an ex ) .
ty , sp is tr to a mo ma - un sp by a us - sp mo th al qu ad .
sp ad is an ex of an ap in wh tr da x is ad to fi pr le mo .
in es , al th ap ch th bi of th fu ap .
th di in th wa bi is re , an in th as th ma on th un fu cl f .
a va of ap ai to ch th bi of an in fu ap in a mo di wa .
fo ex , su ( su , 12 de an ap th em ka fi to de op le ra .
at ( at , 12 12 pr te fo op th di me in a ne ne ge .
in ( ma an mo , 12 , an in me fo th se of ne ne mo is de .
st wi a hy se h , th te us tr da an cr - va to gr re h .
ho , ma of th ap li he ha no be pr in th co of le mo th on ta .
it sh be no th th in ap be so re to tr sc fo in th co of au dr an le re .
si an co ( si et al . , 12 em th ta - pr al fo re ha - pr le .
si le re sh be in to tr an ro , th ma pr ze - va ta sl in th di of th in , ve mu li th au ge by eb .
po ( po , 12 re a si te th wa us fo tr an au ve .
ba on kn ab th re of ca im an st di , he co ad tr da th we us wh tr th ne .
hi te ca be vi as an ap ve of si ' s ap .
in bo ca , do kn wa em to in in in ne ne le .
th in ap pr he di in th a mo of th in is co fr tr da , ma it ap in si wh th ap ex kn is no av fr a hu de .
in th li le fr , th le fa a co of re le ta .
th ch of th fr is to tr kn ac ta , in or to ge be fr fe tr ex of th ta fu it .
th ex re pr in th pa pr cl ev of su ge - iz in th ob re do , wh in le fr re ta ar us to au th tr da fo a ne ob re ta .
ho , th su of th in ap re on se cr as :
" we de in fu re on th as th f ob th in pr .
ho , ev if th in pr is on ap sa by f , th su se ca be us to tr an in ne .
th ne wi , in th id ca , ap th ex a - va .
th ob re do pr ab pr an ex in wh th in pr ma ho on ap .
th is be di ob ma lo al in th co - gr , no im , in wh ca th vi th
" it is al as th fu in f po ce in wh ca ac be le by th in ne .
th fa do no fo fr th in pr .
th ex in th wi be le de cr on th in re an fu ap us fo a .
" we al as th th ou sp 12 of fu in f is bi .
ho , th as is no es fo th in ap .
in pr , in fu ma be de fo ar , hi - di ou sp , gi th a no of di be ou ve is av .
fo ex , if th fu sp f co mu - , rn , th ca ve di di re - va fu of th ty f : wm r ) es a lo in tk : r1 , , op an he an in fu .
th fu , ho , di fr a us in th bi ca in th no cl cl bo ar de , an no di is ma be po an ne ex .
, r wi tr ( i , j ) = if ( i ) -
fk ( j ) i ( i , e
in th ex re ab , al th as we at le ap fu .
we co th th re wo of a va of ta wh le in ca bo ge .
fo ex , pr su as fa re , cu ha re , st ma pr an sp re , wh po no - tr bu im in - an .
fo ex , co th pr of le to re fa of va in .
he ce as ar im fo th su re ( e . g . , th di be th ey ) , wh ot ar le im ( e . g . , th di in wh th pe is lo ) .
af tr on a nu of in , we co th th in ne mi gr so of th in , re th di of le fa of ne in .
it sh be no th in th pa li le is ap to on pa cl of le pr , na bi cl ta .
in th co , se re as ha
be ma , mo of wh ar ad fr st su le .
it is as th al fu ( an he al in in x an y ) ar dr fr a mo fu cl f , in wh al fu sh th sa in an ou sp .
mo , 12 is re to be ( 12 , l ) .
in ap th in ne , fu as we ma on th re of th ta fu in f .
th li le fr , ho , is mo ge .
it on sp th a le en a mu of re le ta ov it en li .
th ta of th le ne no ne be cl .
fo ex , li le ca be st in fu ap , un le , co le or ot le pa .
it is al no re th th su se , wh co re tr da , an th tr se st fr a cl of fu sh a co in an ou sp .
fo ex , co le ma be fr tr da co in a cl do , al th co fu op ov di in an ou sp .
fo ex , in ( mi an th , 12 an ( th , 12 ) co le is st in a li le fr .
in co le , th ta fu f* is a co fu wh ma pe , de by s e s , to ac , de by a e a :
fp : s - - - - a
ac , wh ex by th ag , re in so sc pe / re , an th go of le is to ma re .
a po me fo le co is re le ( ba et al . , to ap ) , ( su , 12 , ( wa an da , 12
re le co va fu th ca be us to se op ac .
em in a li le fr , a co le ag ma fa a va of co le ta ov it li .
as sh in ( mi an th , 12 , le ac mo , wh ar fu of th ty
g : s - - - + s ,
ca si re th am of tr re fo su co le ta .
eb is us to tr kn ac ta , as in th in ap pr in th
th li le pr ca al be un as a me - le le pr .
co , fo ex , it ap to cl , as pr in th pa .
ea tr ex at th me - le co to a wh su se xk at th ba - le .
th se of su se y = ( xk ) th fo th se of tr ex at th me - le .
th te se is x , wh is th se of tr ex fo th ta fu f* at th ba - le .
a co as to be ma is th th ba - le hy sp h is a su of f .
th , th hy sp at th me - le is a se of re on h , or , in ot wo , a se of su of h .
th go of le on th me - le is to re f ( or fi a mi su of f ) as a hy sp fo th ba - le .
ea tr ex xk re th me - le hy sp .
if f is a ca hy in th me - hy sp , on ex th in th li h = f is th on hy le at th me - le .
si ea su se ch a fu in f , ev tr ex at th me - le wi be a po ex of th ta
co f .
cl , th ca be no us bi - fr le at th me - le an mo th th ca be at th ba - le .
ho , de th st si be st su le an me - le , th ar si di .
gi a pa ta fu , f e f , th ul go of le is to mi th pr er fo f* .
re f is a se go , si it is us on in su of le f * .
x , wh es a si te pa in th me - le , do no sp f* un .
in , it pr a po sm an no se of in - ou ex of f* .
in ad , ex on th me - le ma va in le , si th nu of tr ex in a su se ma va .
in or to le at th me - le , mo fl en ar ne th th th ar ty st in su le .
th in ne es on pa su en , wh wo on if th or fu sp f ho th in pr .
th in ne do no di de a hy cl - ra , it im sh co th , wh in in th tr of th ba - le re , co it sp of hy .
th ce qu of th pa is wh le ca be ma ea wh th le ha al le ot re ta .
wi a sy th is " tr " to le ge be th a no le ? th pa pr en re in an ob re do .
ho , mo qu th ar in th co of li le st la sa , mo ge an .
we ex th fu re in th di wi be im to go be th in bo as wi le si is fu .
we th as te fo th co on an ea dr of th pa .
