mo le al th ar ap to te ca - eg pr re on a ba - of - wo do re , i . e . , ea wo oc in th do - me is co as a se fe .
in th pa , we in th us of li ph as in fe - tu fo te ca pr .
th fe ar ba on in ex pa th ar ge an us by th au - ts pr ex re on us su fe as ba kn fo tw ma le al - ri on a cl ta on th ww .
th re - su sh th ph fe ca im th pr - ci of le th at th ex of co .
mo ma le al fo te ca - ti re do as a ba of wo .
ty , ea wo is tr as a se fe .
fo ex - pl , a ht - do mi be cl as th ho pa of a st if th wo st oc on th pa .
ho , st wi al oc on ma ot pa on th ww , in mo pa of co sc - en de .
on th ot ha , a se li " i am a st of co sc at ca me - lo un " is cl in of a st ho pa .
it is wo no th no of th wo th ap - pe in th se ar go pr of a st ho pa , no is an su of th wo , be al of th ar qu co on pa re me sc of co sc .
12 wh ma a di is th li ro th th wo ha in
co fo in ex ( ri 12 ) , is ab to pr a le wi fe th ca so of th sy st - tu of na la te .
fo th ab in se - te , it ex th fo fo fe : i am <_ ,
12 in th se , th mo pr wo fo a st ho pa ar i an am .
th ar qu re fe fo th pr of di be st pa an ot de pa an , fo th ta , sh no be re by a st li ( se al ( cr et al .
12 ) ) .
<_ is st , st of <_ , an st at <_ . 12 al fo of th ar hi in of st pa an at le th of th ar qu un to ap on ot ty of pa .
no th th la of th , st at <_ , do no ma a co pi of te , bu is ba on pr at to th wo st .
in pr wo ( e . g . ,
( ri & lo 12 ) ) , pr re on th us of su ph fo ta we ob us si th me to fi th be cl - te .
in th pa , we re on so ex - th ut of su im th ai at in ph as fe le al , na th na ba cl ra an th se - an - co al i ~ ip .
th ca st is pe in a
fo tw st - of - th - ar
ta on th ww .
ge ph fe
au wa de as a me fo au - ca co do - sp ex pa co .
as in , au - fr an an to re a se of no ph , fo th sh be ex fr th tr th us sy he to cr li pa th ca ex th de in fr th tr do ( an fr un - se do ) .
th ex pa re su - ve or ve - di - ob ( e . g . , <s te or te <d - ob ) as we as pr ph at ( e . g . , at <n - ph or te at <n - ph ) .
se ( ri 12 ) fo a mo de de of au -
th ke di
be au an th re of th
ne fo an an fo al no si ge ex ph in th tr co wh sy ma on of th he .
ta 12 sh th of th 12 sy he em in th cu
12 us an br <> to re
<s j> au - ve no no pr <n - ph
i am <_ <_ is st st of <_ st at <_
ta h sy he th ar us fo fi ph fe in th se " i am a st of co - pu sc at ca me un . "
of wo oc in do of th
cl in of th co .
by do so , ra - bo ma th na in as .
mo th pr of do d be to cl c is es by mu th pr pr pr ( c ) of cl c wi th pr of th pr pr ( wi ) th th wo wi oc in do of th cl .
th pr is th no by th pr of th pr pr pr ( wi ) of al wo .
th ca be de
ve of au - ts as we as th co - in ex pa ex se " i am a st of co sc at ca me un " .
no th th th tw in th sa sy he of ta 12 fi se us tw di pr at fo of th to th no st .
al , th di ve to be ar no di fo th fi ho , in ge wo th oc in di fo wi no be tr in th sa wa .
fo ex , th se " he ar th st at ou de " wi no ma th la ex pa of ta 12 , be th wo st oc in pl th th pl ve st - de at <_ oc mo fr on de pa th on st ho pa .
th su sm di in th us of wo ca ma a bi di fo te cl wa pr ob in ( ri 12 ) .
a se of ex de oc or ab of li ph of th ab fo ca be su us fo re re do of th te do of th 12 me un co ( mu - 12 ) ( ri & lo 12 ) .
it se li
in th pa , we ex th po us of th ge by au - ts as ph fe fo st - of - th - ar in th fo , we wi br de th le al - go an th te do ( cl ww pa re to co sc de ) , an th di - cu th re of ou ex .
fe wi tw
th us of ph
th na ba cl - fi ra an th ru le al ri - pe .
th da se us fo ou ex is th 12 - un da , wh ha be co fo th we pr at ca me un .
mc at cm
it es a do is a me of a ce cl us th
is a na ba cl ta ( mi 12 ) , de by an
fo te cl -
fr ht : / / ww .
ed / af s / cs /
pr ( cl ) : = pr ( c )
as ma of th pr
pr ( wi ( c ) ar ty -
ca 12 ( he th pr wi be 12 ) , ra sm th es us th te pr by wi & be ( 12 ) .
a re pr - - fa th fo te cl ta ma es of pr ( c ( d ) fo th wi cl te to be cl to 12 an of wi be ex 12 be of fl - po ro - of er - - is ad by pr an op to in a co te ba on ku - le di .
th co do no ch of th do , bu pr mo re pr es .
th op wa us in ou ex to ob be co es fo th pr , wh we us fo ge re - gr .
a mo de de of th sm te an of ra ca be fo in ( cr et al .
12 ) .
( qu 12 ) ) un
ri ( co 12 ) is an ef , no - to ru le al ba on th in re er pr al ( fi ~ wi 12 ff 12 ) .
it le si ru by gr ad on co at a ti ( us fo in - ti ga he lo ma in pr on th gr se , a ra ch su of th tr se .
th - th le ru is si by de co - ti as lo as th pe of th ru do no de on th re se of ex ( th pr se ) .
al ex co by th re ru ar th re fr th tr se an a ne ru is le in th sa wa un al ex ar co by at le on ru .
th , ri is a me of th fa - il of se - an - co ( or co ) ru le al ( fi 12 ) .
wh ma ri pa we - su fo te ca pr is it ab to us se - va fe ( co 12 ) .
fo co ma le - in al , a do is ty re as a se of bi fe , ea en th pr or ab of a pa wo in th do .
th re in a ve in en of th tr ex - am be mu sp is wa fo sp th
pr / th - 12 i / ww / na - ba
ta 12 : cl di
in th 12 un da
ab of wo in a do .
ri al to re - re a do as a si se - va fe si li al th wo oc in th te .
co - ce , ri us of su a se - va fe is th th us of bi fe in co - le al , al ri ma us of so op .
fo th re of th pa , we wi co to th of ea wo ( or ph ) as se bi fe .
th we pr th go of th we pr ( cr et al .
12 ) is to ex a co - un kn ba fr th ww wh co mi th co of co be im fo th ww .
ma ap su a kn ba .
fo ex , it co en th ca of cu av se en th ca on an wo - oc qu ( e . g . , al - ta ) or th re on a ma co kn - ed ba ab th co of ww pa ( e . g . , ya - ho ) by en th to an qu co x at un y ? " or " ho ma st ar in de z ? " .
cu , a pr - ty sy us an on of co en co sc de ( st , co , pr , de ) an re be th ( e . g . , pr x is th in of co an th ad of st z ) .
th pr cr th ne an us le kn to cl pa of co sc de in th on .
in or to fu th cr wi so le do - ma kn , a se of 12 , 12 tr do wa fr th ww pa of va co sc de .
12 ab ha of th pa ar a fa ex se of pa fr th co sc de of fo un : co , te , wi - co , an wa .
th re 12 , 12 pa ar mo or le ra co pa fr va co sc de .
th pa ar ma - al cl in th ca st , fa , st , co , pr , de , an ot .
ta 12 sh th fr di of th cl in th da
: / / ww .
ed / af / cs ,
th ot cl is a ve he cl th co pa fo at th de th ar no cl as an of th si re cl .
no , ho - th on of th as ma in ma cl th pa wa th ea re - wo en is re by on on pa .
th , if , e . g . , a fa - ul me or hi pe ho pa as a hy do co se pa fo hi re in , hi pu , hi cv , an po - er to th re pr he is in in , on th to pa th li th in to wo be us to re hi in th cl fa , wh al ot pa wo be cl as ot .
th is cl no a pe so , as ot pe mi or th sa in in a si pa .
th it ca be ex to be ha to di be ce - ta pa of th ot cl an pa of th re
a mo de de of th da se an of so pr wo ca be fo in ( cr et al .
fo ou ex , al pa we st of th ht ta , co to lo ca , an al di we re wi a d .
au - ts wa ru on ea do - um an th ge ex pa we en - co as on - wo to an pu in a se fi .
we co th di al : on wh ea wo wa tr as a fe - tu , on wh ea ph ( ex pa ) wa tr as a fe , an on wh bo we co - er as fe .
fo th la ca , co fi we si ap to pr th in fi ra , wh fo ri we en ea do - me wi tw se - va fe , on co th wo in th do , th ot co th to th re th di ph fe .
th al we ev us th sa pr - du as in ( cr et al .
12 ) : ea ex co - si of fo ru , in wh th pa of on of th fo un ar le ou in tu .
th , ea tr se co of th 12 , 12 pa fr mi un - si pl th pa fr th of th fo un .
th re of ea of th fo ru we co us - in mi - av , i . e . , th pr ma fo th fo te se we th to an al ev me we co on th co se .
th fr - qu di of th cl in th co te se is sh in th se co of ta 12
un no ot , ri wa us wi it de op .
it sh be no th in th se , ri so th cl ac to th in fr - qu an le de li fo di on cl ag al cl ra be it .
he , th is tr as a de cl an no ru ar le fo it .
in th ex - pe wi ra , we ma us of it bu - in st , an fe
th oc on on we
in ou ca th ot cl ,
ta 12 : ov pr ac
no co .
th ex wi ri we pe wi st an wi an fo of fe su se .
la ph an ar cl
in te of pr ac - ta 12 sh th re ra on th 12 te se co .
th re ar qu di .
fo ra , th us of ph in pr - di ac , wh fo ri , th op is th ca .
an in of th co ma ( no sh ) sh th th is mo du to an in in th nu of pa th ar cl as ot .
fo ex , ab 12 of th pa do no co an by de .
th de in th nu of pa fo wh a co to on of th si re cl is ma , in so se , co th th ph fe - tu ar mu mo co in th pr : th te to ap le fr , bu so of th ar hi ty fo ce cl .
th ha a po - ti ef on th ov ac , be ra us wo - ba fe cl on 12 pa as ot , wh th te se co 12 pa of th cl .
ra us ph fe cl ex as ot wi si cl pr in th si re cl .
th me th th ma of ot pa is mi in on of th si re cl , th pr a lo ov ac an a lo pr , as we wi se in th ne se .
th 12 mi cl .
ra
is co fo ri , wh cl - fi 12 pa as ot us wo , wh cl 12 pa as ot wh us on ph .
he , fo ri , wh cl ac is ab th de ac ( 12 ) , pr mo ex ot ha a ne ef on it pe .
in th nu of pa cl wi th de cl ar al th ma re fo th hu pe di of th tw al .
on re fo th ph mi be th na of of th ot cl , wh is li pa th ar ve si it mi we be th ca th th pr im gr di up a li cl su as ra , wh th ru le ri is be ab to fo on th sm di be si pa in di cl .
it mi al be th ca th in th ex se ( st ,
to pa of th re
to co ma
, % ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 - - - - - -
fi 12 : co pr / re ( bo ) an ri ( to ) .
pr of fe th oc on on ) co to th ef , bu it ca be it so ca , be no st wa us on th ph fe
mo in , ho , is a cl lo at th pr - gr sh in fi 12
in th gr , re me th pe of co pr ex - am of th si re cl ( no in ot ) , wh pr me th pe of co pr - ti in al pr fo ex of th cl .
fo ge th gr , we as a co - de sc wi ea pr .
th co as - so wi a pr of ra is si th
12 i am <_ 12 <_ is st 12 st in <_ 12 un of <_ 12 pr of <_ 12 <_ is pr 12 i am <_
<_ is as
12 ma of <_ 12 as <_ 12 re <_ 12 af <_ 12 de of <_ 12 un <_ 12 gr <_ 12 <_ du 12 du <_ 12 fa <_
ta 12 : th be th ph fo ea cl an th ra in a so li of fe in th wo
st : - my ,
te ac ( wa ) : 12
st : - i am <_ ,
<_ is st , in of <_ .
te ac ( te ) :
st : - my ,
<_ is st ,
te ac ( te ) :
es pr of th ex be in th pr - di cl .
ri do no pr pr es - ma , so we as wi ea pr of ri a co va c_ wh e ( i ) is th nu tr ex th ar co ( in ) cl - si by th ru th pr th cl fo th ex - pl .
12 we ch th la - es fo es th ac of a ru in or to pe ru th co on a fe ex .
we me th pr of th al at 12 in in re .
a re le of 12 is eq to co cl ab 12 of th 12 ex of th si re cl .
th pr at a re le of n% wa me by fi so th pr fo ex of th re cl ac to th co sc .
th we we do th li un nu of co pr ex n% of th to nu of ex of th re cl , i . e . , un we ha re n% of th ex of th cl .
th nu of co pr ov th to nu of pr in th se of th li is th pr sc as wi th re le .
if a re of n% wa re wi a se of pr wi id co sc , we co to pr th li un th co sc ch .
he , in so ca , th po fo th pr / re cu ar no ex li up at 12 in .
~ no th th ar no ne eq to th nu of ex th ar co or in cl - fi by th ru in is , be ri le de li .
th me th th le ru ar pr in or , an on ex th ar no cl by pr ru ca be cl by su ru .
ta 12 : th ru wi hi co sc fo wo , ph , an ph re , wi th nu of co an in pr th ma on th re tr an te se .
in bo gr , it is ap th at lo re
th ph fe ou th wo - ba re .
th su th hy th so ph fe ar hi pr fo ce cl , bu in ge ha lo co .
th is pa ob in th si de of th ma re - ca fo ri if it us on ph fe .
fo th co re ar mo di : ra as hi we to wo - ba fe th to ph fe , so th th re fo th co re ar mo de by th wo .
ta 12 il th by sh th to th ph fo ea cl , an th ra in th li of fe or by a we lo - od ra
bu ev
ba fe de th sh of th cu , th ad of ph fe re in sm im - me at al re le .
th si is qu si fo ri in th se th on a fe of th le ru ac us th ph fe .
ho , th ph fr oc - cu in ru wi a hi co sc an ma a cr di at th lo re en of th gr .
ta 12 sh , fo ea of th th re , th ru th wa as th hi co sc ba on it pe on th re
it is ve in to ob th th be ru fo th wo - ba fe se an th be ru fo th wo re ar al id .
bo re th pr of th wo my an a se - di nu ( mo li a ph nu ) .
ho , re th pr - wh th wo - ba re en of th wo am an st , re th pr of th ph <_ is st .
re th al do co se " i am a st . " ma bo co , be - ca th ph ma al fo of th au ve to be .
lo at th ac of th tw ru sh th th fi on ma 12 ex in th en da se , 12 of wh be no - st pa , wh th se ru ma on 12 ex , bu al of th ar of th cl st .
bi vs .
ph
" ph w ( ra )
th ru th wa fo us on th ph fe - tu ca be lo in as cl al do - um th co th se " i am a st at of <_ . " as st ho pa .
wh th ru is se an ac , it ha a mu lo co th bo ot ru .
it is al in to no th th th ru co -
th re co
th re co st .
ap , ri in ga he fi pr th co ov th mo ac ph th co th wo , be th wo fe ha hi co - ag .
af it di th th ph ha to be ad is no re be ri pr al on co th re of a fi se of co fr a ru / it sh be re th it is no co th al th ru ar pr th cl st .
in fa , mo of th im at th lo re en of th cu is du to re im in th pr - di of th st cl .
pr / re fo th cl lo ve si to th gr sh in fi 12 , wh fo th ot fi re cl no dr - ma im co be ob .
we ha se in ta 12 th ra at a so lo im - po to ph fe in th ot 12 cl , an an in of th le ru sh th on a fe of th to - ra ru fo cl ot th st - de ac us ph fe .
th ma be pa du to th fa th th ar to fe tr ex fo so of th cl .
we pl to fu in th on a mo ba da se , li th 12 ne da us in ( la 12 ) .
tw ot in
ur 12 ar th di
to ma in fi - in ma re be
is on of
be ri an
or in re er pr al , wh - - le ef - - co al co as ca fo pr ( ff & wi 12 ) .
aw ha al in wh th st cl co a hi pe of na la te , bu we co no em co th hy ( us th cr me nu of ph pe cl ov nu of wo pe cl ) .
fi 12 : pr / re an ri ( bo ) us ph ve bi -
cu fo ra
ra an ri , an th co pr at th lo re en fo ra .
th fo - me is du to fa th ra le pa as ot , th in th pe of re pa in th re cl at th ex of pr .
we co th th la ph is ca by vi - la of th in as of na ba , wh le to ov op co sc fo fo ex , if th ph <_ is st oc in a do , it is qu li th at le on of th ph st at / in / of <_ wi oc - cu in th sa se , wh wi un bo th th th do is a st ho pa .
wh th re of th la se ha sh th ph fe ca im th pr of te cl - at th ex of re , on ca as wh si re co ha be ob by us se - qu of wo in of si wo as fe .
to th en , we ha re so of th ab ex - pe us a re th co si wo an pa of wo ( bi ) as fe .
th sa ph fo ra , we ob th sh of th re - as wi th us of ph : cu is de by th wo - ba fe , bu th pr is sl hi .
th tw cu at th bo of fi 12 ar th re / pr cu fo bi ve ph fo ra .
th ar no no di sm pe fo th ph re at a re le of 12 .
a co of th be bi fe ( ta - bl 12 ) to th be ph fe ( ta 12 ) sh th th av ra of th to th fe am th
12 ho pa 12 co sc 12 de of 12 co sc 12 th de 12 co sc 12 of co 12 un of 12 sa se 12 ri ed 12 in ja 12 re gr 12 au la 12 la po 12 wi be 12 of ho 12 th co
ta 12 : th be th bi fo ea cl an th ra in a so li of fe
in th bi
st : - my ,
te ac ( wa ) : 12 12
ta 12 : a hi ra ru us bi wi th nu of co an in pr it ma on tr an te ex .
ap to be le se ( cf . , e . g . , cl st an pr ) .
is hi fo bi , wh th th fe fo
fo ri , ho , th si
th up tw cu of fi 12 , th ph re - ti ou th bi re at th lo re en .
lo at th ru th ap th , we fi th , un th ru of ta 12 , fo th bi th ru wi th hi co is no on of th 12 to - ra ru of th st cl in th re fo of th 12 - fo cr - va .
th ru sh in ta 12 is mo si to th ru sh in ta 12
it is ra nu 12 by ou co me .
wo ph bi 12 , 12 12 , 12 12 , 12
ta 12 : nu of fe co by ra
tu it us is mu sm th th nu fe ri co .
it ca be se th , al th ar sl mo di ph th wo , th nu ar in ab th sa or of ma , wh th nu of bi fo in th do is on or of ma la .
ou ex ha sh th th us of li fe ca im th pr of te ca at th lo re en .
fo th ru le al p ~ ip , ad su fe wa ab to bo th pr - ci by ab 12 to mo th 12 wh re ab 12 of th 12 te ex of a te ca - ta on th ww .
al ph fe re mo en ef ( e . g . , th sy of bo th tr an th te do ha to be pa ) , th se pr a be fo fo ru le - in al .
th ef wa le re fo th na ba cl
th we us .
ne , it sh be no th we we no ab to im th pr of th cl at hi re th re be th th ph fe ty - ca ha a ve na fo .
ho , it sh al be no th th te do us in ou ca st ma no ha be an id ch fo ev ut of ph fe , be si pa of ww pa do no co na th , we pl to fu ev co us te ca as th 12 ne da re ne co
( la 12 ) an th ( co & si 12 ) .
on th ot ha , we ar al wo on fu im th cl ac on th 12 un - ti da se us in th ca st .
fo ex , al ap us in th st pe ve po on th pr cl ( pr wa ty be 12 ) .
th re fo th is mo li th he na - tu of to th ar de wi on pr pa .
we be th th pr ca be so by lo at th in th is co on or ne th li th po to su pa an pl to in to th em in fu us te si
it is wo to ta a lo at th nu of di fe th ar co by th le al - go ( ta 12 ) .
re th we us ra wi st on wo an bi , as we as pr of al fe th oc on on , so th nu of fe -
12 ex , on of th mo ch wo fo th cl fa an st is th wo " fa " , wh is mo li to oc in ad th in th na la - gu po of a we - pa .
is su by a sc - ( j1 - in ) of th au fo zu su by th da
fs de wi hp pr un co el ri ac su fr ns gr ir - 12 an ir - 12
we wi to th ma sc fo ge
th au - ts da .
