ab .
ov th pa de , fu ma re im ( fm ) ha em as a po ne in to co va qu of da ab ac in th hu br .
a ty fm ex ca pr a th - di im re to th hu su br ac ev ha se , at a sp re of a fe mi .
as in ot mo em sc , th ne in ha le to a oo of ne da , an a co ne fo ne da an me .
we de re re ap ma le me to th pr of cl th co st of a hu su ba on fr da ob ov a si ti in .
in pa , we pr ca st in wh we ha su tr cl to di co st su as ( 12 ) wh th hu su is lo at a pi or a se , ( 12 ) wh th su is re an am or no - am se , an ( 12 ) wh th wo th su is vi is a wo de fo , pe , bu , et .
th le pr pr an in ca st of cl le fr ex hi di ( 12 fe ) , ex sp ( te of tr ex ) , no da .
th pa su th re ob in th th ca st , as we as le le ab ho to su ap ma le me to tr cl in su se .
se , ba cl , su ve ma , ne ne , br im an
sc da an , fu ma re im , hi di da , fe
th st of hu br fu ha re a tr bo in re ye fr th ad of fu ma re im ( fm ) , a br im me th dr im ou ab to ob co of ne br ac in hu su at hi sp re ( se mi ) , ac th en br .
th fm te of th pr of re ne ap to st hu co pr , pr we ca de ap da an me to ma se of th hu vo of da .
a tw - mi fm se wi a si hu su pr
mi et al .
a se of th di br im ea co ap 12 , 12 vo , co on pe se , yi te of mi of da ob .
si it ad , fm ha be us to co hu of st th id sp re of th br th ar ac on av wh a hu pe a pa co fu ( e . g . , re , me im ) .
th va ma of th pu wo re de st of br ac , ca by av to fm da co ov mu ti in , in wh th su re to re st of so ty ( e . g . , re a va of wo ) .
in th pa we co a di go : tr ma le cl to au - to de th su co st at a si ti in or in .
th go he is to ma it po to de tr co st , ra th ch ac av ov ma ep .
th ca wo cl be us in tr th hi co st of a su pe a si , sp ta .
su cl le ap ar al po ap to me di pr wh ar of ca as cl pr , su as di al di .
wh th ap we di he ar st in th in , an th mo tr ap of re de st co to do fm re , th al da an ap ba on ma le ha al be to ga ac wi th ne an me in re co ( e . g . , st et al . , 12 co & sa , 12 mi et al . , 12 ) .
th pr do is al qu in fr th pe of ma le , be it pr a ca st of cl le fr ex hi di , sp , an no da .
in ou ca st we en pr wh th ex ar de by 12 , 12 fe , an wh we ha le th a do , ve no , tr ex pe cl .
al co wi mi su cl le wo be im in su ex se , in fa we ha fo it is po in th pr do , by de of ap fe se , fe ab an cl tr me tu to th pr ch .
in th pa we rs pr a br in to fm , th de se fm da se we ha an , th ma le ap we ex , an le le ab ho be to ap ma le ap to th pr of cl co st ba on si in fm da .
fu ma re im
fu ma re im ( fm ) is a te fo ob th - di im re to ne ac in th br th ti .
mo pr , fm me th ra of ox he to de he in th bl wi re to a co ba , at ma in lo wi th br .
it is wi be th bl ox le is in by lo ne ac , an he th bl ox le de ( bo ) re is ge ta as an in of
an fm sc me th va of th fm si ( bo re ) at al th po in a th di gr , or im .
in th st de in th pa , a th
le to de co st fr br im
di im is ca ev 12 , 12 , or 12 se .
we re to th ce wi th th - di im as vo ( vo el ) .
th vo in a ty fm st ha a vo of a fe te of cu mi , an a ty th di br im ty co 12 , 12 to 12 , 12 vo wh co co ma an ar th of in .
wh th sp re of fm is dr be th th pr by ea br im me , ea vo ne co on th or of hu of th of ne .
th te re of th fm bo si is sm ov se se .
gi an im of ne ac , su as th ac in vi co in re to a as of li , th fm bo re as wi th im of ne ac en fo ma se .
it ty in to a ma af ap fo to ve se , re to ba le af an ve to se se .
de th pr te re , so re ( e . g . , me et al . , 12 ) ha re th th re ti of ev ca be re to wi a fe te of mi ( e . g .
to di th re ti of tw as of li in th le ey an on in th ri ey ) , pr ho th at le so te ch of br fu ca be st at su re us fm .
a sm po of fm da is il in gu 12
th gu sh da co ov a ft se in du wh th su re a wo , de wh it wa a no or ve ( in th ca , it wa a ve ) , th wa fo an wo .
th da wa sa on pe se fo ft se , ov si pl sl , on of wh is sh in th gu .
re wo an fm da
ov re ye th ha be a gr in wi th co sc co in da pr fo fm .
on po st of pr in us ge li mo ( gl ) as in fr et al .
( 12 , 12 ) an bl ( 12 ) .
he a re is pe fo ea vo , to pr th si va at th vo , ba on pr of th st .
th de to wh vo ac ca be pr fr st fe is ta as an in of th de to wh th vo ac is re to th st .
no th re pr ( pr vo ac gi th st ) is ro th in of th pr we co he ( pr co st gi al vo ac ) .
ot ha us t - st to de re ac vo , an ye ot ha us mo co st me to es pa of th bo re in th pr of no ( ge , 12 ) .
va me fo mo ti se ha be us fo an fm da .
fo ex , ho - so , ha , an ra ( 12 ) us hi ma mo ( hm ) to le a mo of ac in th vi co re fr a as li st .
al th pr wa no to th st , th on - of st wa re as th hi st by th hm .
a va of un le me ha al be us fo ex an of fm da .
fo ex , go et al .
( 12 ) di th us of cl me fo fm da .
on pa ap ( pe , 12 ) in th ap of ex
mi et al .
fi 12
ty fm da .
th to po of th gu sh fm da fo a se se of vo in th co , fr a tw - di im pl th th br .
a ft se in of fm da is pl at ea vo lo .
th an po of th br is at th to of th gu , po at bo .
th le si of th br is sh on th ri , ac to st ra co .
th fu th - di br im co of si su im pl .
th bo po of th gu sh on of th pl in gr de .
du th in th su wa pr a wo , an wh th wo wa a no or ve , th wa fo an wo .
ma to es mi mo to cl th da .
ot ha us pr co an an in co an ( mc et al . , 12 ) to de sp - te fa th ca be li co to re th fm
le to de co st fr br im
wh th ha be li wo on ou sp pr of tr cl to de co st , th ar se pa de wo wi cl re go .
fo ex , ha et al .
( 12 ) sh th di pa of fm ac ar ge wh a hu su vi a ph of a fa ve a ho , ve a sh , ve a ch .
wh th di no sp us th di pa to cl su si - ev da , th di re th by di th fm da fo ea ph ca in tw sa , th co au ma th sa me re to th sa ca .
mo re ( co & sa , 12 ) ap su ve ma an li di an to a si se of da to su cl pa of fm ac ev by th pr of ph of va ca of ob .
ot ( wa et al . , 12 ) re th th ha be ab to ma be - th - ra pr re wh a vi pr wo wi be re la , ba on th ma of ac wi ce pa of le pr an te co du th pr .
in ad to wo on fm , th ha be re re wo ap ma le me to da fr ot de me br ac .
fo ex , bl , cu , an ml ( 12 ) de ex tr cl of br st fo si tr ee da , wh ( kj et al . , 12 st et al . , 12 ) re tr br st cl fo im ob vi po em to ( pe ) .
th wo re in th cu pa bu on ou ea re de in mi
( 12 ) an wa , hu , an mi ( 12 ) .
th se br de ou ap to da pr , tr cl , an
da ac an pr
in th fm st co he , da we co fr no st fr th un co .
ty st in be ve an ft su , an we ge se a su of th su wi th st , le no fm si to tr ou cl .
da we pr to re ar du to he mo , si dr , an ot so , us th fi pr ( ed et al . , 12 ) . 12 al vo ac va we re by th pe di fr th me va du re co ( wh th su is as to re , an no pe an pa ta ) .
th pr im we us as in to ou cl .
in se ca , we fo it us to id sp an de re of in ( ro ) wi th br of ea su .
to ac th , tw ty of br im we co fo ea su .
th rs ty of im , wh ha be di up to th po in th pa , ca br ac vi th bo re , an is re to as a fu im .
th se ty of im , ca a st im , ca th st ph br st at hi re .
fo ea su , th st im wa us to id th an re of in , us th pa sc of
mi et al .
ca et al .
( 12 ) an ra et al .
( 12 ) .
fo ea su , th me of th fu im wa th co - re to th st im , so th in vo in th fu im co be as wi th ro id in th st im .
le me
in th pa we ex th us of ma le me to ap cl fu of th fo fo
f : fm - se ( t1 , t1 ) co
wh fm - se ( t1 , t1 ) is th se of fm im co du th co - ti ti in ( t1 , t1 ) , an wh co is th se of co st to be di .
ea of ou da se in fm da fr mu hu su .
ex wh ot no , we tr a se cl fu fo ea su .
we ex a va of me fo en fm - se ( t1 , t1 ) as in to th cl .
in so ca we en th in as a ve of in vo ac , a di ac fo ea vo an fo ea im ca du th in ( t1 , t1 ) .
th ca be an ex hi di fe ve , co of hu of th of fe gi th a ty im co 12 , 12 to 12 , 12 vo , an a tr ex ca in do of im .
th , we ex a va of ap to re th di of th fe ve , in me fo fe se , as we as me th re mu fe va by th me .
th fe se an fe ab me ar de in de in se 12 .
we ex a nu of cl tr me , in :
ga na ba ( gn ) .
th gn cl us th tr da to es th pr di ov fm ob , co on th su co st .
it th cl a ne ex ( ci : 12 ) x = ( ci : 12 ) x1 .
xn ( ci : 12 ) by es th pr p ( ci | ( ci : 12 ) x ) of co st ci gi fm ob ( ci : 12 ) x .
it es th p ( ci | ( ci : 12 ) x ) us ba ru , al wi th as th th fe x j ar co in gi th cl :
p ( ci | ( ci : 12 ) x ) =
p ( x j | ci ) p ( x j | ck )
wh p de di es by th gn fr th tr da .
ea di - tr of th fo p ( x j | ci ) is mo as a un ga , us ma li es of th me an va de fr th tr da .
di - bu of th fo p ( ci ) ar mo as be , ag us ma li es ba on tr da .
gi a ne ex to be cl , th gn ou po pr fo ea co st , ca us th ab fo .
p ( x j | ci ) .
we co tw va of th gn , wh di on in th ap to
th un ga di
es th va of
le to de co st fr br im
gn - sh , it is as th th va of vo x j is id fo al cl ci .
th si va is es by th sa va of th po da fo x j ta fr al cl ( wi th cl me su ou of ea va ) .
in gn - di , th va is es se fo ea vo an cl .
su ve ma ( sv ) .
we us a li ke su ve ma ( se ,
fo in , bu ( 12 ) ) .
k ne ne ( kn ) .
we us k ne ne wi a eu di me ,
co va of 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 an 12 fo k ( se , fo in , mi ( 12 ) ) .
ev re
tr cl we ev by th cr - va cl er wh le bo - va cl fu .
wh mo th tw cl ar in , ou cl ou a ra - or li of th po cl fr mo to le li .
in th ca , we sc th su of ea pr by th no ra of th co cl in th so li , wh we re to as th no ra er .
th , th no ra er ra fr 12 wh th co cl is ra mo li , to 12 wh it is ra le li .
no th no ra er is a na ex of cl er wh mu cl ar in , an is id to cl er wh ex tw cl ar in .
no al th ra gu yi an ex no ra er of 12 re of th nu of cl un co .
to ev cl , we ge em k - fo cr - va , le ou on ex pe cl on ea fo .
in th da se co in th pa , th co cl ar ba ( i . e . , th nu of av ex is th sa fo ea co cl ) .
th , by le ou on ex pe cl we re a ba tr se fo ea fo , wh co re th cl pr .
be th fm bo re is bl ou ov se se , a st le - ou - on - ex - pe - cl ev ca so pr op es of th tr cl er .
th re is st : wh ho ou a te im oc at ti t , th tr im at ti t + 12 an t 12 wi be hi co wi th te im .
th , if th im at t 12 an t + 12 be to th sa cl as th im at t , an ar in in th tr se , th ca le to op bi er es fo th he ou ex .
wh fa wi th si ( i . e . , in th se ca st de be ) , we av th op bi by re fr th tr se al im th oc wi 12 se of th he ou te im .
in th ca , ou cr va pr in ho ou on te ex pe cl , an al re te pr im fr th tr se .
ca st
th se de th di fm st , th da co in ea , an th cl - er tr fo ea .
in th se we su th su of th be cl ob fo ea of th st .
se 12 di mo ge th le le ac th th ca st .
mi et al .
pi ve se st
in th fm st ( ke , ju , & st , 12 ) , su ex a co of tr .
du ea tr th we sh in se a se an a si pi , th an wh th se co de th pi .
we us th da to ex th fe of tr cl to di wh th su is ex a se or a pi du a pa ti in .
in ha of th tr th pi wa pr rs , fo by th se .
in th re tr , th se wa pr rs , fo by th pi .
in ei ca , th rs st ( se or pi ) wa pr fo 12 se , fo by a bl sc fo 12 se .
th se st wa th pr fo up to 12 se , en wh th su pr th mo bu to in wh th se co de th pi .
fi , a re pe of 12 se wa in be th ne tr be .
th , ea tr la ap 12 se .
pi we ge ar of th sy + , an / or $ , su as
se we de su as it is tr th th pl is be th do .
ha of th se we ne ( e . g . , it is no tr th th st is ab th pl . ) an th ot ha we af se .
ea su wa pr a to of 12 tr as de ab , in wi te ad re pe .
du ea of th re pe , th su wa as to re wh st at a xe po on th sc .
fm im we co ev 12 ms .
th le ta we co fo th st is to tr a cl to de , gi a pa 12 - se in of fm da , wh th su is vi a se or a pi du th in .
in ot wo , we wi to le a se cl fo ea su , of th fo fo
f : fm - se ( t1 , t1 + 12 ) ( pi , se )
wh t1 is th ti of st ( pi or se ) on .
th , th in to th cl is an 12 - se in of fm da be wh th pi or se is rs pr to th su .
al th st wa pr fo a ma du of on 12 se , we ch th 12 - se in in or to ca th fu fm ac as wi th st ( re fr se 12 th th fm bo si of ex fo 12 se be th ne ac of in ) . 12
th we a to of 12 ex av fr ea su ( 12 ex pe cl ) .
th fm - se wa it de by th ac of al vo in co .
th av nu of co vo pe su wa ap 12 , 12 , an va si by su , ba in la pa on th si of th su he .
no th th ei se in co by th cl co 12 im ( im we ca tw pe se ) , yi an in fe ve co ap 12 , 12 fe , be
le to de co st fr br im
th ex cl er of th de cl ( gu th mo co cl ) is 12 in th ca .
th av er ob fo th mo su tr cl , us th mo su fe se st , wa 12 , av ov 12 su , wi th be su re 12 ( re to se 12 fo mo de ) .
th re ar st hi si , an in th it is in po to tr cl to di th tw co st re .
in ad to th si - su cl , we al ex wi tr cl - er th op ac mu su .
in th ca , we ev th cl er us a le - on - su - ou re in wh we he ou ea of th 12 su in tu wh tr on th ot 12
th me er ov th he ou su fo th mo su - ce co of fe se an cl wa 12 .
ag , th is si be th th ex 12 er fr th de cl , in th it is po to tr cl fo th ta th op on hu su wh wh no pa of th tr se .
th re ar de in de in se 12 .
sy am st
in th fm st ( se ma et al . , 12 ) su we pr wi se , so of wh we am , an we as to re to a ye - no qu ab th co of ea se .
th qu we de to en th th su wa in fa pr th se .
th le ta fo th st wa to di wh th su wa cu re an am se ( e . g . , th ex so wa ab th da co th mi ra .
) or an un se ( e . g . , th ex so sp ab th da be th mi ra . ) . 12
te se of ea of ty we pr to ea su .
ea se wa pr fo 12 se .
ne a qu wa pr , an th su wa gi 12 se to an .
af th su an th qu , or 12 se el , an x ap on th sc fo a 12 se re pe .
th sc co on fm im ev 12 se .
we ar in he in le a cl th ta as in an in of fm ac , an de wh of th tw ty of se th su is re .
us ou ea no , fo ea su we tr cl of th fo
f : fm - se ( t1 + 12 , t1 + 12 ) se
wh se = ( am , un ) , an wh t1 is th ti at wh th se is rs pr to th su .
no th cl in de fm ac du th in fr 12 to 12 se fo in pr of th se .
th is th in du wh th fm ac is mo in .
th we a to of 12 ex fo ea su ( 12 ex pe cl ) .
th fm - se wa de us on th vo fr fo ro co to be mo re by a do ex .
th 12 ro co a to of 12 to 12 vo , de on th su .
no th 12 se in co by th cl co 12 im ( im we ca ev 12 se ) , yi a cl in ve co fr 12 , 12 to 12 , 12 fe , de on th hu su , be fe se .
mi et al .
th ex cl er of th de cl ( gu th mo co cl ) in th ca is 12 , gi th eq nu of ex fr bo cl .
th av er ob by th mo su co of fe se an cl wa 12 , av ov 12 su , wi th be si - su cl re an er of 12 ( re to se 12 fo mo de ) .
se ca st
in th st , 12 su we pr wi in no be to tw di se ca ( e . g . , fr , to ) , an as to de wh th wo be to a pa ca .
we us th da to ex th fe of tr cl to de wh of th se ca of wo th su wa ex .
th tr in th st we di in tw bl .
in ea bl , th na of a se ca wa rs di fo 12 se .
fo th , th su wa sh a su of 12 wo , ea pr fo 12 ms an fo by 12 ms of bl sc .
af ea wo wa pr , th su cl a mo bu to in wh th wo be to th se ca na at th be of th bl .
in fa , ne al wo be to th na ca ( ha th bl co no ou - of - ca wo , an th re bl co ju on ou - of - ca wo ) .
a mu - se bl sc re pe wa in be ea of th tw bl .
th tw se ca of wo pr we sh , fo - le an , tr , ow , fr , ve , fa me , oc , to , ki it , dw , an bu pa .
wo we ch fr li of hi fr wo of ea ca , as gi in ba an mo ( 12 ) , in or to av ob or mu - me wo .
fm im we ac on pe se .
th le ta we co fo th st is to di wh of th tw se ca th su is co , ba on a si ob fm im .
fo ou ea no , we wi to le a cl of th fo :
f : fm ( t ) wo
wh fm ( t ) is a si fm im , an wh wo is th se of 12 se ca de ab .
a to of 12 ex im we co fo ea su ( 12 ex pe cl , ti 12 cl ) .
al vo fr 12 ro we us , yi a to of 12 , 12 to 12 , 12 vo , de on th su .
in th ca th cl in is a si im , so th cl in di is eq to th nu of vo , pr to fe se .
th tr cl ou a ra - or li of th 12 ca , ra fr mo to le pr .
we th ev cl er us th no ra er de in se 12 , wh th de cl ( gu th mo fr cl ) yi an ex no ra er of 12 .
th no ra er fo th mo su co of fe se an cl wa 12 ( i . e .
on av th co wo ca wa ra rs or se ou of th tw ca ) , ov 12 su , wi th be su re 12 .
( re to se 12 fo de ) .
le to de co st fr br im
fi 12
co pl sh lo of vo th be pr th wo se ca , fo th di hu su .
fo ea vo , th co in th no ra er ov th te se , fo a gn cl ba on th si vo .
no th sp cl of hi pr vo , an th si re of pr ac th th su .
th ra of no ra er is ( re 12 , da bl 12 ) , wi ot co in be th tw ex .
ea im co to a si tw - di pl th th br of on su .
on re qu th ca be ra re th cl re is wh th cl is in le th pa of br ac pr of se ca , or wh it is in le pa re to so ot ti - va ph th in fm ac .
on un pr of th ex pr fo co da , fr th po of vi , is th al of th wo be to a si ca ar pr wi a si ti in ( i . e . , a si ex bl ) .
in fa we do be th te ad ma be in ou re , bu we al be - li th cl is in ca re pr re to se ca .
on st pi of su ev is th cl tr fo di hu su - je te to re on th sa br lo to ma th pr , an th th re ha be re by ot as re to se ca .
fi 12 il - lu th br re co th mo in fm si fo cl , ac th su .
in th gu , re an ye in th vo wh ac al mo ac cl .
no th hi di vo ar cl to , in si re ac th su .
th lo fo di ma th re in ea wo on se ca by ch , ha , an ma ( 12 ) , ch , we , an ma ( 12 ) , is et al .
( 12 ) an ag , za , an de ( 12 ) , as we as so no ar th ar cu un in .
le le
ca on le to de me st fr fm ?
th pr go le to th re wa to de wh it is fe to us ma le me to de me st fr si in fm da .
th su re re ab fo al th da se in th th is in fe in
mi et al .
a va of in ca .
ho , it is im to no th wh ou em re de th ab to su di am a pr se of st oc at sp ti wh th su pe sp ta , th do no ye de th tr cl ca re de co st oc at ar ti wh th su pe ar ta .
wh ou cu re ma al be of us in co sc re , we in to pu th mo ge go in fu wo .
we al at bu fa to tr su cl fo se ot cl fu de ov th sa da se .
fo ex , we we un to tr an ac cl to di th pr of ne ve af se in th pi ve se st .
we we al un in at to tr cl to di th pr of tr ve fa se , or se wh th su an co ve in .
it ma be th th fa co be re gi la tr se or mo ef le al .
al , it ma be th ca th th fm da si la th in ne to ma th di .
th li of re is st ve ne , an wh th ab re de th fe of di a va of co st ba on fm , at th po th qu of ex wh co st ca be re di re an op em qu .
gi ou in su pl th re in co an sa ( 12 ) , as we as li ad in br im te an li pr in de ma le me sp fo th ty of ap , we ar op th ov ti we wi be ab to de an in us co of co st in an in op en se of ex se .
in , we fo th th ac of ou si - su cl va si - ic am su , ev wi th sa st .
fo ex , wh tr an sv fo th 12 di su in th pi ve se st , th er ra of th 12 si - su cl we 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , an 12 ( ad si - su da is re in ta 12 ) .
su pr hi ac wi on cl we ty th sa wh pr hi ac fo ot cl , an it is li th th da fo th wo - pe cl we co by va ki of no ( e . g . , si he mo du im ) .
co - er su - to - su va in fm re ha be wi re in th fm
be le th to of wh on ca tr cl in th do , it is wo co th qu of wh ou re be - th - ra cl er ra ar si th re of ha tr ma le al an fe se me , th re re fo th ap th wo be .
th is a ge is wh on ex wi ma le ap , th re ac fo th on th pe be ov th te da .
in th fo su we de in de th di fe se me an le me we ex .
fo th pu of th di , ho , th ar tw im po to be ma .
fi , we fo th ev le al ( gn , sv , an kn ) pr si be th ra cl ac fo ev ca st , su ou co th it is fe to le cl in th do .
se , wh pe fe se , fe we ch ov a tr se di fr th te da , us a le - on - ou
le to de co st fr br im
cr va ap , so th ea te ex ha no in on wh fe we se .
th on wa th th te da in fe se wa in ch th nu of fe , n , fo wh re ar re .
th si pa n wa ch fo ea le al an st , to ma th me ac ov al si - su cl tr by th al fo th st .
gi th th nu of si - su cl ra fr ve to th , de on th st , we co th th ch of th si pa n wo ex on a ve mi in an th we co sa co ou re ac to be ve cl to tr ac .
to te th co we co an ex to co th bi es ( us th va of n wh ma te se pe ) to an un es ob us a mo el an co in ap .
to ob th fu un es , we em a ne cr va ap to pa th da re in th se : a tr se , op se , an na te se .
th tr an op se we us to tr a gn cl , to ch th fe se me , an to ch th nu n of fe to be in .
th na te se ha no in on tr or se wh to re , an wa us on to pr a na un es of ac .
we ra th ex ov th da fr al 12 su in ou se ve pi da se .
th re un er es pr by th na te se wa 12 , wh th or bi es pr by ou st tw - se ap wa 12 .
fu , th nu of fe n se by th tw ap we ne id .
th ex ou su ou co th ou re cl ac , wh in th sl bi , ar in fa ve cl to th tr ac .
wh cl wo be ?
as di ea , we ex wi th cl le me : a ga na ba ( gn ) cl , k - ne ne ( kn ) , an li su ve ma - ch ( sv ) .
th cl we se be th ha be us su in ot ap in hi di da .
fo ex , na ba cl - er , kn , an sv ha al be us fo te cl pr ( ni et al . , 12 jo , 12 ya , 12 ) , wh th di of th da is ap 12 , co to th si of th na la vo .
to te th re pe of ou cl , we pe tw se of ex .
fi , fo ea fm st we an th pe of gn , li sv , an kn ( wi k ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) ) us as in to th cl al vo in th ro se fo th st .
he th pe me is cl er , ex fo th se ca st wh th me is no ra er .
th pe re fo a sp st is th me er ov al si - su cl tr fo th st , as ob by le - on - ex - ou - fr - ea - cl cr va .
be th se ca st is no a bi cl ta , we di no ex wi sv on th sp st .
th re ar sh in ta 12 in th ro in no fe se .
th ta re re fo th be - pe va of gn in ea st .
in th sy
mi et al .
ta 12
er ra fo cl ac al st .
ea ta en in th me te er av ov al si - su cl tr fo a pa fm st an le me .
th ro wi fe se no sh re wh us al vo wi th av ro .
th ro wi fe se ye sh re of th fe se me th pr th lo er .
in ev ca ex on , th wa th ac fe se me de in se 12 . 12
th ex is th en ma wi th * , fo wh ro fe se wo be .
th va of gn wh pr th st re ( an wh is th re in th ta ) is gn - sh fo th sy am st , an gn - di fo th ot tw st .
am st th wa gn - sh , an in th ot tw st it wa gn -
as ca be se in th ta , th gn an sv cl ou kn .
ex th pe of kn , on ca al se a tr th pe ge im wi in va of k .
ou se se of ex ex th pe of th cl wh us in co wi fe se .
th sp fe se me we co ar de in de in th ne su .
fo ea st an le me th ta re re us th mo su fe se me , in th ta ro in fe se ye .
in al ca ex on ( th ta en ma by th * ) , th mo su fe se me wa th ac me de in se 12 . 12
as ca be se in ta 12 , pe fe se pr a la an co im in cl er ac al st an le me .
as in th ex - im wi no fe se , gn an sv ou kn wh fe se is us , an th pe of kn im as k in .
an .
on cl tr in th da is th kn fa le we th gn or sv ac al st an co .
in re , th is no to su gi th hi di , sp tr da se .
it is we kn th th kn cl is se to ir fe , as th fe ad in ir wa to th di be tr an te ex ( mi , 12 ) .
th ex fo th po pe of kn is al co wi th dr im in kn pe re fr fe se .
as th ta re in , fe se so re kn er by a fa of tw or mo , pr by re ma of th ir , mi
as di in se 12 , th tw va of gn we co di on in th nu of di pa es wh mo va in th cl co
le to de co st fr br im
di of vo ac .
gn - sh es a si va in - de of th cl , wh gn - di es a di va pe cl .
we fo th gn - sh pe be in th st co th fe ex - pl pe cl ( sy am ) , wh gn - di pe be in th ot st .
th em re is co wi a ge bi - va tr : po da in or to es fe pa ge le to lo va es - ma , bu to hi bi .
th , in ge as th nu of av ex in , we ex gn - di to ou gn - sh , al ot th be
no th th sv ou gn in th pi vs .
se st fo wh th we 12 ex pe cl , bu no in th se ca st fo wh th we on 12 ex pe cl .
wh th ma be du to va fa , it is in - in to ob th th tr is co wi re re of ng an jo ( 12 ) , in wh th pr em an th ar th gn of ou lo re wh da is sc , bu no wh da be mo pl .
th ex th by po ou th al lo re as ( in th nu - be of tr ex ) ou gn , lo re re o ( n ) ex to re it as wh gn re on o ( lo n ) , wh n is th nu of fe - tu .
in ou ca we no th sv , li lo re , re o ( n ) ex , in co to th o ( lo ) re by gn .
wh ou em re ar to sp to pr a st si tr fo th re pe of sv an gn , it is ne in to no ou re ar co wi th an of ng an jo
in su , we fo wh tr fm cl ac a va of da se an ta fu th gn an sv ou kn qu co .
fu , fe se ha a la an co be im ac al st an le
wh fe se me wo be ?
gi th ou cl pr in ve hi di , no , sp tr da , it is na to co fe se me to re th di of th da be tr th cl .
as we di in th pr se , an as su - ri in ta 12 , fe se le to la an st si im in cl er ac al th of ou ca st .
th se di in de th fe se me ex in ou wo , an so su le le re wh fe se me wo be .
ap .
wi th el of ma le , th mo co ap to fe se wh tr cl is to se th fe th be di th ta cl .
fo ex , gi th go of le a ta cl fu f : x y , on co ap to fe se is to ra or th fe of x by th mu in wi re to th cl va y , th to gr se th n hi sc fe .
mi et al .
gi th na of cl pr in th fm do ( an a va of ot do as we ) , a se ge ap to fe se is al po .
to il , co th pr of le a bo cl f : x y wh y = ( 12 , 12 ) , gi tr ex la as be to ei cl 12 or cl 12 ( e . g . , le to di wh th su is vi a pi or se ) .
in fm st , we na ob th cl of da ra th tw .
in ad to da re cl 12 an cl 12 , we al ob da co to a th xa or re co .
th xa co co da ob du th ti in be tr , du wh th su is ge at re ( e . g . , th ar ex ne a pi no a se , bu ar in st at a xa po ) .
th , we ca vi th da as wi cl 12 an cl 12 as co so si co on th cl va y , wh th da as wi xa co no su si , an in co on ba no re to ou cl pr .
in th se , we ca co a se ge ap to fe se : sc ea fe by ho we it di th cl 12 or cl 12 da fr th ze si da .
in th te of fm , we sc ea fe ba on ho ac it is du th cl 12 or cl 12 in , re to th xa in .
th in be th fe se me is th it em ch vo wi la si - to - no ra , th it ig wh th fe ac di th ta cl .
we re to th ge se as th ze si le se , su in gu 12
no ma cl pr in se da ca be mo in
fi 12
th ze si le se .
bo cl pr in th fm do na gi ri to th ty of da : da co to th tw ta cl pl da co wh th su is in th xa or re co .
we as th da fr cl 12 an cl 12 ar co of so un si pl no , wh da fr th xa co co no re si bu on no .
in su se , fe se me ca co bo vo di ( ho we th fe di cl 12 fr cl 12 ) , an vo ac ( ho we th fe di cl 12 or cl 12 fr th ze si
le to de co st fr br im
te of th ze si le se ( e . g . , cl wh of tw pe is sp ba on vo da , wh th ze si co co to ba no wh ne pe is sp ) .
th , un ho to pe fe se an cl wi th se ha re be th do of fm .
in fa , wi th fm li it is co to us ac to se a su of re vo , an th to co th be of th se su ov va co .
in th ex su be , we co fe se me th se vo ba on bo th ab to di th ta cl fr on an ( wh we ca di ) , an on th ab to di th ta cl fr th xa co ( wh we ca ac ) .
al ea fe co of th va of a si vo at a si ti , we gr th fe in th sa vo to fo th pu of fe se , an th fo on se a su of vo .
in gr de , th fe se ( vo se ) me we co he ar :
se th n mo di vo ( di ) .
in th me , a se cl is tr fo ea vo , us on th ob fm da as wi th vo .
th ac of th si - vo cl ov th tr da is ta as a me of th di po of th vo , an th n vo th sc hi ac to th me ar se .
no wh re cr va er on na cl us th fe se me , fe ar se se fo ea cr - va fo in or to av us da fr th te fo du th fe se pr .
th , th vo se ma va fr fo to fo .
se th n mo ac vo ( ac ) .
in th me , vo ar se ba on th ab to di ei ta cl fr th xa co .
mo sp , fo ea vo , v , an ea ta cl yi , a t - te is ap to co th vo fm ac in ex be to cl yi to it ac in ex be to xa pe .
th rs vo ar th se by ch fo ea ta cl yi th vo wi th gr t st .
th ne vo ar se by pi th se mo ac vo fo ea cl , an so on , un n vo ar ch .
no th se vo ma di ju on ta cl fr xa , or ma di bo ta cl fr xa .
se th n mo ac vo pe re of in ( ro ) .
th is si to th ac me ab , bu en th vo ar se un fr al re of in ( ro ) wi th br .
mo pr , gi m pr ro , th me ap th ac me to ea ro , se n / m vo fr ea .
th un of th vo se is re as th se of n se vo .
th ap ab fo se vo ca be co wi me fo av th va of mu fe ( in sp or ti ) , an wi me th se da ov a su - in in ti .
we ex wi va co of su ap , an re he on th ab th me ( di , ac , ro ) as we as a fo me de fr ro :
ca th me of ac vo pe ro ( ro ) .
th me rs se n / m vo fo ea of th m ro us th ro me .
it th cr a si
mi et al .
su fo ea ro , wh ac at ti t is th me ac of th se ro vo at ti t .
re .
we ex wi ea of th fo fe se me , ov ea of th th ca st da se .
fo co pu we al co us al av fe ( de al in ou re ta ) .
ta 12 pr su re of fe se ex fo ea of th th fm st .
ea ta sh th be er ob fo ea fe se
ta 12
pi vs .
se st cl er by su an fe se me .
12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12
th rs co in th fe se me , al wi th nu of fe se ( al in us al av fe , wh va by su ) .
th se co in th av er ov al 12 si - su cl wh us th fe se me .
re co in er fo in su a th m .
fo ea me , th nu of fe wa ch to mi th av er ov al su .
ta 12
sy am st cl er by su an fe se me .
av er a
12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12
re ar pr us th sa fo as ta 12
ta 12
se ca er by su an fe se me .
fe se av er
re ar pr us th sa fo as ta 12
le to de co st fr br im
me an fo ea su co in th st , wh us a gn cl .
he th be er re to th lo er ac by va th nu of se vo .
th op nu of vo se va by st an fe se me , ty ra fr 12 to 12 of th to nu av wi th se ro , he we fo ex wi th ra .
fo ea fe se me an st , th nu of fe wa ch to mi th me er of al si - su cl tr fo th st .
th nu is sh in pa ne to th fe se me in th ta .
th sp nu of fe co we 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , an 12 fo th pi ve se st , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , an 12 fo th se ca st , an 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 fo th sy am st .
th re in th us fe se le to im cl er in al th st , an th al of ou fe se me im ov no fe se in th va ma of ca .
fo ex , th ac fe se me ou th ap of us al fe in 12 of th 12 si - su cl tr ov th th st , an yi eq pe in th re 12 ca .
a se st tr in th re is th do of fe se me ba on ac ( ac , ro , ro ) ov th ba on di ( di ) .
as ca be se in th ta , ev ac - ba fe se me ou th di - ba me , on ev ca st .
of th ac - ba me , th ac me yi be ac , an it ou th di me in 12 of th 12 si - su cl tr ac th th st , yi in pe in on 12 of th 12 ca .
no al th th ac me se su fe fe th di in al th fm st .
it is at rs su to ob th se fe ba on th ac le wo dr be th se th ba on th ab to di - cr th ta cl .
gi th th en go is to di th ta cl , an th se fe ba on di is th no in ma le ap - ti , on mi we ex di to ha be th do me .
be we lo de in wh we ob th op re in al th fm st .
on si in wh we mi ex ac - ba fe se to ou di - ba me is wh da di is ve hi , no le ar hi , tr da ar sp , an ve fe vo co a si re to th ta cl .
in su ca , we sh ex to nd th so vo th ar tr ir ap no to be go di ov th sp sa of tr da wh us cr va to te th di po .
th la th se of su ir vo , th mo li th a fe se st fo on di wo se su ov vo , an be un to di th fr tr in di vo .
ho , in th sa ca we mi ex th ch vo wi hi si - to - no ra wo be a us st , as it wo re fr co th la nu of ir vo ( i . e . , th wi no si , bu on no ) .
in fa , ou ac - ba fe se st se ex th ki of hi si - to - no ra vo .
th bo li is th ea fe se st ru it ow ri :
mi et al .
di - ba me ru th ri of se vo th on co t th no tr sa , wh ac - ba me ru th ri of ch hi si - to - no vo th ca di th ta cl .
wh ri is gr de on th ex pr , bu th re ri fo th di - ba me gr mo qu wi in da di , in no le , de tr se si , an an in fr of ir fe .
to ex th co , le us ex th ac ch of th vo se by th tw me in ou da .
in pa , we wi fo on a si su in th se ca st : su g , wh be av no ra er ( 12 ) is ob by a gn cl us 12 vo ch us th ac fe se st .
th di me al ob it be er ( 12 ) us 12 vo fo th pa su .
wh is th di in th tw se of vo se us th tw me ? ar th in fa di in th de of ov be th tw
le us co th se of vo fr su g : th ch by ac fe se bu no by di ( ac ) , th ch by di by no by ac ( di ) , an th ch in by bo me ( in ) .
fo th pa su , th ar 12 vo in th in se , an 12 in ea of ac an di .
tr a gn cl us on th vo in in yi an er of ( 12 ) , sl bu no si be th th er fr th ac vo .
fi 12 sh th de of ov fo ea of th th se of vo .
on th le , pa ( a ) pr a sc of tr se er ( ho ax ) ve te se er ( ve ax ) .
th st li in wh tr er eq te er .
no al th se of vo ov to so de ( i . e . , te er is ge gr th or eq to tr er ) , bu th cl of vo ra fu fr th st li fo th di vo .
on th ri , pa ( b ) pr a hi sh th nu of vo in ea se th ov to va de .
no th di vo se co ma mo vo th ov to a la de .
ba on th da su in th gu , it is cl th th de of ov is in gr in th ca fo vo se by di th th se by ac .
it is al cl th th vo in in su th le ov .
a di vi in th ch of th th vo se is pr by gu 12
th to po of th gu pl th 12 vo wi th be tr se er fr ea of th th se .
ea vo pl sh th le ga mo fo ea of th tw ta cl .
no th gr sp of th mo fo th vo ch by th di me ( di an in ) th fo th ac se .
th bo po of gu 12 pr a sc pl of st de ( ho ax ) ve te er ( ve ax ) fo th th vo se .
no th si lo st de fo th ac se .
ab we su th th di me fo fe se ca a ri of se - le vo th ov th da .
th ab da , es fr gu 12 , in th in fa ov is gr fo di th fo ac in ou da .
we al su th ac me ca th co ri of se ir vo .
is th
le to de co st fr br im
( a ) sc pl of tr se er ( ho ax ) ag te se er ( ve ax ) fo th vo in ea su ( ro ) .
( b ) hi de fo ea vo su th nu of vo th ov to va de .
th ho ax in th ca is ( te er mi tr er ) , me th de of ov .
in fa oc in ou ca ? th pl in gu 12 sh th th ac se of vo - el do ap to co vo th ar po di am th tw ta
to un th im of po di ( ir vo ) se by th ac me , co th re we of th re ve ir vo us by a gn .
gi an in ( ci : 12 ) x to be cl , th lo od as by th gn fo tw cl ci an c j is
p ( ci | ( ci : 12 ) x ) p ( c j | ( ci : 12 ) x )
p ( c j )
p ( xk | ci ) p ( xk | c j )
wh xk is th ob va fo th kt fe of ( ci : 12 ) x , an wh p de di es by gn ba on th tr da .
no th gn cl wi pr cl ci if th ab lo od ra is po , an c j if it is ne .
th , th de of th gn is de by a li su , wh ea vo co on te to th su .
mi et al .
in th to ha of th gu , ea pl sh th 12 le cl pr de p ( xk | ci ) fo a si vo xk , fo su g in th se ca st .
th x ax ra fr 12 to 12
ea ro co th 12 vo wi th lo tr se er fr ea vo su , so by in er .
fo re , th le an ri pl in ea ro ha th ( tr se , te se ) er va be th .
th bo ha of th gu pr sc de th av cl st de ( ho ax ) ag th te er ( ve ax ) fo ea vo su ( ro ) .
no th hi va fo th di vo ( in an di ) .
le to de co st fr br im
no le us co a vo xk wh is tr ir to th cl ( i . e . , wh th tr di p ( xk | ci ) an p ( xk | c j ) ar id ) .
fi , co th si in wh th le es p ( xk | ci ) an p ( xk | c j ) ar al id .
in th ca th fr in xk wi be eq to 12 , it lo wi be eq to 12 re of th ob va of xk , an vo xk wi th ha no in on th na gn de - ci .
no co th si in wh p ( xk | ci ) an p ( xk | c j ) di ( e . g . , du to ov ) de th fa th p ( xk | ci ) = p ( xk | c j ) .
in th ca , th xk te wi in fa be no - ze , an wi ha a de , ra in on th na gn cl .
is th in fa oc in ou da ? th pl in gu 12 su th th ac vo th ar ir ( i . e . , th in ac ) do in ha st ov - pi p ( xk | ci ) di , li th ma of th co to th na gn
to su , we nd cl em ev th fe se co im - pr cl ac in ou do .
fu , we nd cl em ev - de th ac - ba fe se me co ou di - ba me ( ev ac - ba fe se me we co ou di - ba fe se , in ea of ou th fm st ) .
th ge ch - ac of ou pr do th en th ki of fe se is su in gu 12
in pa , th ke ch is th av of a th ca of da in wh ne of th ta cl is re wh we re to as th ze si cl of da .
we co , an su wi a va of em ob , th ac - ba fe se ma ou di - ba fe se in ze - si cl pr , es wi in da di , no , an da sp , an as th pr of tr re fe de .
gi th a va of se - ba cl pr t th ze - si le se , we be on of th mo si le le fr th fm do is th ut of ac - ba fe se in su do .
ex of su se - ba cl pr in sp vo id ( wh ze si da co to ba mi - cr no wh no is sp ) , an vi ob cl in xe - ca se ( wh ze si da co to ba im co no ob of in ) .
ad re is ne to fo th ze - si le se an ex it re in th an ot do .
on es pr di fo fu wo is to un ho be to bl ac - ba an di - ba fe se to op le ac .
ca on tr cl ac mu su ?
al re di so fa in th pa ha fo on th pr of tr su - sp cl .
th se co th qu of wh it is po to tr cl th ap ac mu hu su , in hu su wh ar no pa of th tr se .
th is an im go be if it is fe it op th po of di su - in re in br ac as wi di ty of co pr , it op th po of sh tr cl am re an fm da co fr ma di pe , an it ma
mi et al .
it po to po tr da fr mu su to al th sp da pr in th do .
th bi ob to an of mu - su fm da is an va am su .
di br va si in th sh an si , as is ap fr th im ta fr th di br in gu 12
th va ma it pr - le to re th ma th of vo in on br to th pr co lo in a di br .
on co ap to th pr is to tr ( ge - me mo ) fm da fr di su in so st an sp , su as ta co ( ta & to , 12 ) .
th dr of th me is th th mo tr ty in an er on th or of a ce , in al th mi - sc vo fr di br .
th al th we co - si he is to in ab th fm ac , us th me ac wi ea ro as th cl in , in of us in vo ac .
in ot wo , we tr ea ro as a la su wh ac is de by th me ac ov al th vo it co .
no th is eq to us ou ro fe se me , in al vo wi ea ro .
de th an va in br si an sh , it is re ea fo tr ex to ma id th sa se of ro in ea su .
a se di th ar wh tr mu - su cl is th th in - si of fm re to a pa st is of di ac su .
to pa ad th is , we em a no me th li re th da fr di su in th sa ma - mi ra .
wh th ar ma cr - su di th ca be ad by th si li tr , we ha fo th no to be us .
we ha al fo th a si no me ca so re cl er fo si - su cl , wh us to no da ac di tr as wi a si su .
of co a th di th ar is si th di pe ma th di , an we ha no re to as a pr th we wo nd th sa sp - te pa of fm ac in tw su ev if we co pe al th br sp , an pe no th re in of th fm re .
th , th qu of wh on ca tr mu - su cl is pa a qu of wh di br be su si to ex a co pa of ac .
we pe ex to tr mu - su cl us tw da se : th pi ve se da , an th sy am da .
th fo tw su - ti de th tw ex in tu .
we di no at to tr mu - su cl fo th th da , se ca , be we ex th de pa - te of ac th di wo ca wo be un on th vo - le da wa ab to me ro ac .
se ve pi st .
we tr mu - su cl fo th se - te ve pi st , to di wh th su wa vi a pi or a se .
mu - su cl we tr us da fr 12 of th 12 su , ab th da fr ea su in se ro su .
to ev th er of th tr cl , we us le - on - su - ou cr va .
in pa , fo
le to de co st fr br im
ta 12
er fo mu - su cl , se ve pi st .
th ri co sh th er of a mu - su cl wh ap to su wi fr th tr se , us le - on - su - ou cr va .
re ar ob us no - ti an 12 ro .
al cl ar tr by av - ag al vo in an ro in a su .
12 co in ar co un th as - su th te ex ar id , in - pe be di .
th er of a ra - do cl is 12 .
in th an we em th gn - di ve of gn .
ea su we tr on th re 12 su , me th er on th he ou su , th ca th me er ov al he ou su .
no th in th ca th ar 12 ex av to tr th mu - su cl , in co to th 12 ex av to tr th si - su cl de ea .
th re , su in ta 12 , sh th th li sv le a mu - su cl th ac er of 12 12 ov th le ou su .
th is hi st - ti si co to th 12 er ex of a de cl gu th ma cl .
th in th it is in po to tr a cl to ca si su - in re in br ac th ar su st to de co st in hu su wh ar no pa of th tr se .
as in ea ex , we no th sv an gn ag ou kn , an th th pe of kn im wi in va of k .
al th re de th it is po to le mu - su cl wi ac be th ra , th ac ar be th ac by th si - su cl su in ta 12
fo ex , th mu - su sv cl er of 12 is le ac th th me si - su cl er of 12 re in ta 12
th di co be du to a va of fa , ra fr th lo sp re en of fm in in th mu - su cl ( i . e . , us su in of mi - sc vo ) , to po di in br ac ov di
in a se se of ex we di co tr si - su ve mu - su cl , th ti us id tr me an id en - co fo th cl in ( ro , us al vo wi se ma se ro ) .
in th ex we us th sa pi ve se da , bu
mi et al .
ta 12
er fo si - su an mu - su cl , wh tr on p - th - s , an s - th - p da .
th th co sh th av er of cl tr fo si su .
th fo co sh th er of mu - su cl ap to su wi fr th tr se .
re ar ob us no .
al cl ar tr ba up av al vo in an ro in a su .
12 co in ar co un th as th te ex ar i . i . d .
be di .
th er of a ra cl is 12 .
th ti we pa th da in tw di su : tr in wh th se wa pr be th pi ( wh we wi re to as s - th - p ) , an tr in wh th pi wa pr be th se ( wh we wi ca p - th - s ) .
no th se th da in th fa re in an ea cl pr , be al ex of on st ( e . g . , se ) oc in th sa te co ( e . g . , fo - lo on th re pe in th s - th - p da , or fo on th pi st in th p - th - s da ) , an he ex le va .
fo ea of th tw da su - se we tr bo mu - su an si - su cl , us gn , sv , an kn cl , an em ro fe se wi al vo in th se ro .
th re ar su in ta 12
no fo co we pr bo th le - 12 - su - ou er of th mu - su cl , an th av le - on - ex - pe - cl - ou er of th co si - su cl .
as in th rs ex , th mu - su cl ac ac si gr th th 12 ex fr ra gu .
in , th mu - su cl ac er ra co to th of th si - su cl , an in a fe ca ac er ra su to th of th si - su cl th fa th th mu - su cl ar be ev on su ou th tr se .
pr th be pe by th mu - su cl ca be ex by th fa th it is tr us an or of ma mo tr ex , fr tw su ra th on .
we in th re as st su fo th fe of tr hi ac cl th ap to no hu su .
no th cl ar ge mo ac th th in th rs ex , pr du to th ea cl ta as di ab .
le to de co st fr br im
sy am st .
we al at to tr mu - su cl fo th sy am st , to di wh th su wa re an am - bi or no - am se .
in th ca , th er of th mu - su cl wa 12 12 un le - on - su - ou cr va , an co th av er of si - su cl is 12 12 .
th se wh pr th re wa us th gn cl , mi - ma no , an th fe se me ro , av th 12 mo ac vo fr ea of fo pr - de ro ( le an ri br , an le an ri te re ) in su .
th er ar si be th ex fr a ra cl , 12 .
un th se ve pi st , ho , th re ar qu se to th pa - ul se of le me an fe se .
al we ca dr st co fr th re , it do pr mo ad su fo th fe of tr mu - su cl .
su an co
we ha pr re fr th di fm st de th fe of tr cl to di a va of co st , ba on si - in fm ob .
th pr is in bo be of it re to st hu co , an as a ca st of ma le in hi di , no , sp da
ou co of cl in th ga na ba ( gn ) an li su ve ma ( sv ) cl ou k ne ne ac al th st , an th fe se me co im cl er in al th st .
in co gn to sv , we fo tr co wi th ob in ng an jo ( 12 ) , th th re pe of ge ve di cl de in a pr fa on th nu of tr ex an da di .
in pa , ou ex ar co wi th hy th th ac of sv in re mo qu th th ac of gn as th da di is re vi fe se , an as th nu of tr ex in .
fe se is an im as in th de of cl fo hi di , sp , no da .
we de a ne cl se ( th ze si se ) th ca an im as of ou fm cl pr , as we as a va of ot cl - ca pr in se da .
in th se , th av da in no on ex of th cl to be di ( e . g . , da wh th su is vi a pi or a se ) , bu al a cl of ze si da ( e . g . , wh th su is vi ne a pi no a se , bu is si xa on th sc ) .
ou ex sh th wi ou do ac - ba fe se me wh ta ad of th ze si da co ou tr di - ba fe se me th us on da fr th ta cl .
ou da an ou an al su th th re be of ac - ba ve di - ba fe se wi in as da be mo sp , mo no , hi di , an as th fr of re fe de .
as is cl fr ou de of th fm da se , th do re a fa ex po al al fo of th di .
we pl fu
mi et al .
re to de a mo pr fo mo of th ze si se , an to de an ex wi fe se st tu to ta ma ad of th
in ad to tr cl to de co st in si su , we al ex - pl th fe of tr cr - su cl to ma pr ac mu hu su .
in th ca , we fo it us to ab th fm da by us th me fm ac in ea of se an de br re .
us th ap , it wa po to tr cl to di , e . g . , wh th su wa vi a pi or a se de a pi , an to ap th su to su ou th tr se .
in so ca , th cl ac fo su ou th tr se eq th ac ac by tr on da fr ju th si su .
gi th su in tr mu - su cl , we pl ad re to ex a nu of al ap to cr - su cl ( e . g . , in of ab th da fo ea su , ma th di br st to a st co sy su as ta co ) .
th ar ma ad op fo ma le re in th co of fm da an .
fo ex , it wo be us to le mo of te be , in co to th wo re he wh co on da at a si ti or ti in .
ma le me su as hi ma mo an dy ba ne ap re to th pr .
a se re di is to de le me th ta ad of da fr mu st , in co to th si st ef de he .
in ou ow la , fo ex , we ha ac fm da fr ov 12 hu su .
in or to de le me to ta ad of su da , it wi be ne to ad bo ho to co da fr mu su an ho to co da fr su pr wi di st .
a th re to is to de ma le me th co ta as a st po co co mo of hu pr , su as ac - r ( an et al . , 12 ) an 12 ( ju , ca , & va , 12 ) , us th as pr kn fo gu th an of fm da , an au re th mo to be t ob ex
as wi ma re - wo ma le ca st , ou ex of th fm pr do ha dr on le le fr pr re in ma le , an ha yi ne le of it ow .
gi th fm is a pr in ve hi di , sp da se , we dr he on pr le le fr si do su as te cl .
th le us to em sv , gn , an kn cl al th ha pr pr us in su do , an le us to ag ex fe se me fo re th di of th da .
th mo si ne in ab le to ar fr ou fm st th fa is th id of th ze - si le se an th de of ne an hi ef fe se me fo th se .
in pa , ou di of th un do of ac - ba fe se me ov co us di - ba me wa an es st to tr su cl in th do , an su th si fe se ap ma be us in ot hi di , sp do th t th ze - si le se .
lo
le to de co st fr br im
fo , we ex ma le me to ha an in im on th an of fm da as th el ma , an fo ad op fo th fm do to dr no ma le re , es in pr re to di of re fo me da fr mu su , an in le te mo of co pr .
we ar gr to lu j .
ba fo he di an de co on va dr of th pa .
th to vl ch an jo we fo us ob an su du th co of th wo , an to pa be fo ma he di an fo wr pa of th co us fo th se ca st .
we ar al gr fo th de co of tw an re , wh le to si im to th na ve of th pa .
ra st ni wa su by a gr fe fr th me co - ta bi an ch pr at ca me un es by th me co fo an by na sc fo ( ns ) gr no .
cc - 12
fr pe wa fu by th ce fo ne ba of co , a pr xx sc fr fu pa a ci e te , po ( ii qu co de ap , co pe fu so eu ) an a ph sc - sh fr fu ca gu , po .
re hu wa su by an ns gr fe .
su fo co th fm da se wa pr by gr nu n1 - 12 - 12 - 12 fr th mu un re in ( mu ) of th of of th se of de .
fi is av at ht : / / ww . st . cm . ed / as .
no th cl ta is ma mo di by th fa th th rs st is al pr fo
fo se , wh th se st is te as so as th su re wi a bu pr .
th ex in fo ty of se .
we co he on tw ty , co to th mo
an le am .
