ab .
th pr of fo ge co fr sp tr ex ha lo be a ma fo of ma le re .
wh mo pr re ha fo on em me fo ge fr a la nu of tr ex us no do - sp kn , in th pa fe ye ne me ha be de fo ap do - sp kn to fo - mu va ge fr si tr ex .
th ch co to th me is th th ab to ge fr a si ex fo fr th ab to ex wh th tr ex is a me of th co be le .
th pa pr a ge , do - in me , ca eb , th un pr ap to ex - ba ge .
th eb me is il in th co of se ex pr , an us to co se ex sy fo ex - ba ge .
th pe on ex - ba ge af - fo by th ge me is al us to id op re pr in th ar .
in an mo
th ab to ge fr ex is wi re as an es ca of an le sy .
ge in ob a se of tr ex of so ge co , id th es fe co to th ex - am , th fo a co de ba on th co fe .
th ge pr ca th be vi as a se th a va sp of po co de , in se of a co de of th co to be le .
be th sp of po co de is va , th he of th ge - ti pr li in ut wh tr da , as an kn ar av to co th se .
mo re on th ge pr ha fo on em , da - in me th re on la nu of tr ex to co th se fo th co ge ( se mi , 12 mi , 12 di ,
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
12 fo ov of th me ) .
th me al em so ki of in - ti bi to gu th in le th th mu ma in or to de a co fr on a su of it ex ( mi , 12 ) .
th bi is ty bu in th ge by pr it wi kn on of th ex fe th ar pr re to de th co to be le .
th va al it is th po to se th th re sp of co de in te of th al fe , to de co de co - te wi th tr ex .
be th me ar ba on se fo fe th ar co to th tr ex , we sh re to th as si - ba ge me . 12
in re ye , a nu of re ha pr ge me th co sh wi th da - in , si - ba me ( e . g . , bo et al . , 12 de , 12 ke - ca , 12 ke , 12 le , 12 ma , 12 mi , 12 mi , 12 mi et al . , 12 o ' ro , 12 sa & at , 12 sc , 12 si , 12 ut , 12 wi et al . , 12 ) .
ra th re on ma tr ex an an in bi to co th se fo a co ge , th mo re me co th se by re on kn of th ta do an of th co un st .
af an a si tr ex in te of th kn , th me ar ab to pr a va ge of th ex al wi a de ju of th ge in te of th sy ' s kn .
mo pr , th ex - ba me an th tr ex by fi co an ex of ho th ex sa th de - ti of th co un st .
th fe of th ex id by th ex - pl ar th us as th ba fo fo th ge co de .
th ju fo th co de fo fr th ex co fo th tr ex .
th , by re on kn of th do an of th co un st , ex - ba me ov th fu di as wi in - du , si - ba me : th in to ju th ge th th pr .
th ba di be th tw cl of me is th si - ba me mu re on so fo of in bi to gu ge , wh ex - ba me re in on th do kn .
wh ex - ba me pr a mo re me of
' th te si - ba ge wa su by le ( 12 ) .
we us th te to co bo me th se fo si am po ex , an fo di be po an ne ex .
12 th te ex - ba ge wa fi in by de ( 12 ) to de hi pa - ti ge me .
th au ha pr us th te go - di ge ( mi , 12 ) to re to th ow ex - ba ge me .
in th pa , we us th te ex - ba ge to re to th en cl of me th fo ge - ti by co ex .
ge , an ar ab to ex mo in fr in tr ex , th al re th th le po kn of th do an of th co un st .
it se cl th fo a la nu of ge pr en by in ag , th re kn is av to th le .
in th pa we pr an an a nu of su ge
th pu of th pa is to co in de th ca an re of ex - ba ap to ge , an to in a si me th un pr de ap .
in pa , we pr a do - in me ( ca eb ) fo ut do - sp kn to gu ge , an il it us in a nu of ge ta th ha pr be ap us di ex - ba me .
eb co a mo ge me fo ex - ba ge th th pr ap .
be it re a la nu of ex in ( i . e . , th tr ex , a do th , a de of th co un st , an a de of th fo in wh th le co mu be ex ) eb ca be in fo a wi va of le ta .
fi , eb pr a pe - ti fo id th pr li of ex - ba ge , an fo id op re pr in th ar .
th re of th pa is or as fo .
se 12 in th ge eb me fo ex - ba ge , an il th me wi an ex .
se 12 th il th eb me in th co of tw ad ex : ( 12 ) le a st de of a cu fr a tr - in ex pl kn ab th fu of a cu ( ba on wi et al . ' s ( 12 ) wo ) , an ( 12 ) le a se he fr an ex se tr pl kn ab se an th se sp ( ba on mi et al . ' s ( 12 ) wo on th le sy ) .
se 12 co wi a ge pe on ex - ba ge an a di of si op re is in th ar .
th ap re de ' s ( 12 , 12 ) re on ex - ba ge an ex sc ac to th ot wo di he .
ex - ba ge : di an an ex
th ke in be ex - ba ge is th it is po to fo a ju ge of a si po tr ex pr th le sy is en wi so ex ca .
in pa , th sy mu be ab to ex to it wh th tr ex is an ex of th co un st .
th , th ge is pr to po a de of th co un st as we as do kn fo co th re ex .
in th se , we de mo pr th cl of ge pr co by ex - ba me , de th ge eb me , an il it in te of a sp ex pr .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
12 th ex - ba ge pr
in or to de th ge pr co he , we fi in so te .
a co is de as a pr ov so un of in - st , an th ch so su of th in .
ea in in th un is de by a co of gr li th re it fe an th va .
a co de de th ne an su co fo be an ex of th co , wh a su co de de su co fo be an ex of th co .
an in th sa th co de is ca an ex , or po ex of th co , wh an in th do no sa th co de is ca a ne ex of th co .
a ge of an ex is a co de wh de a se co th ex . 12 an ex of ho an in is an ex - am of a co is a pr th th ex sa th co de .
an ex st is th pr tr , mo by re ea in ru by th as ge ru .
th ge pr de sh in ta 12 su th cl of ge pr co in th pa .
ta 12 il a pa in - st of an ex - ba ge pr fr th cl .
as in by th ta , de an ex - ba le pr in sp fo ki of in :
th go co de th co to be ac .
fo in , in th pr de in ta 12 th ta is to le to re pa of ob <x , y> su th it is sa to st x on to of y .
no th th go co
ta 12
th ex - ba ge pr
go co : a co de de th co to be le .
( it is as th th
co de fa to sa th op cr . )
tr ex : an ex of th go co .
do th : a se of ru an fa to be us in ex ho th tr ex is an
ex of th go co .
op cr : a pr ov co de , sp th fo in wh th
le co de mu be ex .
a ge of th tr ex th is a su co de fo th go co
an th sa th op cr .
12 in fa , we us th te ge in th pa bo as a no ( to re to a ge co de -
ti ) , an as a ve ( to re to th pr of de th ge ) .
ta 12
th sa - to - st ge pr af bo et al .
( 12 )
go co : pa of ob <x , y> su th sa - to - st ( x , y ) , wh
sa - to - st ( x , y ) no ( fr ( y ) ) v li ( x , y ) .
on ( ob 12 , ob ) is ( ob 12 , bo ) is ( ob , en ) co ( ob , re ) co ( ob , bl ) vo ( ob 12 , 12 ) de ( ob 12 , . 12 )
vo ( p1 , vl ) a de ( p1 , dl ) - > we ( p1 , vl ) we ( p1 , wl ) a we ( p1 , w1 ) a le ( wl , w1 ) - > li ( p1 , p1 ) is ( p1 , en ) - we ( p1 , 12 ) ( de )
op cr : th co de mu be ex in te of th pr us to de ex ( e . g . , vo , co , de ) or ot se , ea ev , pr fr th do th ( e . g . , le ) .
a ge of tr ex th is a su co de fo th go co an
th sa th op cr .
he , sa - to - st , is de in te of th pr fr an li , wh th tr ex is de in te of ot pr - ic ( i . e . , co , de , vo , et . ) .
th tr ex is a po ex of th go co .
fo in , th tr ex of ta 12 de a pa of ob , a bo an an en - ta , wh on is sa st on th ot .
th do th in a se of ru an fa th al ex ho tr ex ar me of th go co .
fo in , th do th fo th pr in de of fr an li , ru fo in fe li th we of an ob fr it de an vo , ru th su de va su as th we of an en , an fa su as ' . 12 is le th 12 ' .
th op cr de th te in wh th ou co de mu be ex .
ou us of th te is ba on mo ' s ( 12 ) de th a pr is op re to a gi ag an ta , pr th th pr ca be ap by th ag to so th ta .
si , we as th th le co de wi be us by so ag to pe so ta , an mu be de in te op fo
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
th ag an ta .
fo th pr , th op cr re th th fi co de be de in te of th pr us to de th tr ex ( e . g . , co , vo , de ) or in te of a se se of ea ev pr fr th do th ( e . g . , le ) .
re th go co in th te wi ma it op - ti wi re to th ta of ef re ex of th
gi th fo in , th ta is to de a ge of th tr ex th is a su co de fo th go co an th sa th op cr .
no th th no of op is cr fo ex - ba ge : if th op cr we no sp , th in go co de co al be a co ou co de an th wo be no to le ! th op cr im a re - me th le co de mu be no on co , bu al in a us fo be le is co .
th ad re is ba on th vi - po th co de ar no le as th en , bu ra as pr en to be us by a pa ag fo a pa ta .
12 th eb me
th eb me , wh is de to ad th ab cl of pr , is de - fi as fo :
th eb me 12
ex : co an ex in te of th do th th pr ho
th tr ex sa th go co de .
th ex mu be co so th ea br of th ex - ti st te in an ex th sa th op
ge : de a se of su co un wh th ex
st ho , st in te th sa th op cr .
th is ac by re th go co th th ex st .
th co of th re re ex co th de co de .
to se mo co ho th eb me wo , co ag th pr of le th co sa - to - st ( x , y ) .
th bo of fi 12 sh a tr ex fo th pr , de in te of a se ne of ob - je an re .
in pa , th ex co of tw ph ob , ob 12
fi 12
ex of sa - to - st ( ob , ob ) .
an ob , in wh ob is on ob , an fo wh se fe of th ob ar de ( e . g . , th ow , co ) .
gi th tr ex , th ta is to de wh of it fe ar re - va to ch th go co , an wh ar ir .
to th en , th fi st of th eb me is to co an ex of ho th tr ex - pl sa th go co .
no th th ex co a pr , an co su an ex th ma in in ge th co of th pr .
th ex fo th tr ex de in th lo
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
po of fi 12 is gi in th to po of th fi .
as sh th , th pa of ob <o , ob sa th go co sa - to - st be ob is li th ob
fu , th is kn be th we of ob an ob ca be in .
fo ob , th we is in fr it de an vo , wh fo ob th we is in ba on a ru th sp th de we of en in ge .
th th ch of in , th ex st de ho ob an ob sa th go co de .
no th th ex st - tu ha be co so th ea of it br te in an ex th sa th op cr ( e . g . , vo ( ob , 12 ) , le ( . l , 12 ) ) .
in th wa , th ex st si ou th fe of th tr ex th ar re to sa th go co , an th pr th ba fo co a ju ge of th tr ex .
fo th cu ex , th re - va tr ex fe ar sh sh ov in th fi , an co to th co vo ( ob , 12 ) a de ( ob , 12 ) a is ( ob ,
wh th fi st of th eb me is th re fe of th tr - in ex , it do no de th de ge co on fe va .
fo in , wh th fe vo ( ob , 12 ) is re to ex ho th pr tr ex sa th go co , th ge co on ac va fo vo is ye to be de .
th se st of th eb me th ge on th fe va se by th fi st , by de su co on th fe va th al ea st in th ex st to ca th .
in or to de ge su co un wh th ex ho , th se st of th eb me in re ( ba pr ) th go co st by st ba th th ex st .
in ge , re - in a gi fo f th a ru r is a me fo de th ne an su ( we ) co un wh th ru r ca be us to in f .
we em a sl mo ve of th go - re al de by wa ( 12 ) an ni ( 12 ) . 12 ou mo go re al co an ex th re on a su co ( ra th ne an su co ) un wh ru r ca be us to in fo f , bu th co cl to th tr ex un co .
in pa - ti , wh th ge go re al co al po va bi ( un ) un wh r ca in f , ou mo al co on th sp va bi us in th ex of th tr ex .
fu , if th ru r co a di an ( le - ha si ) , th ou
12 di ( 12 ) in th re no of we pr in th co of pr pr co .
th we pr of a pr ch th se of al in st of th pr su th ac gu a fi st sa so po .
fi 12
ge fr th ex of sa - to - st ( ob , ob ) .
( un ex - si ar th re of re th go co . )
al co on th pa di sa by th tr ex .
fi 12 il th se st of th eb me in th co of th sa - to - st ex .
in th fi ( to ) st of th fi , th go co ex - pr sa - to - st ( x , y ) is re th th ru li ( pi , p1 ) - sa - to - st ( p1 , p1 ) , 12 to de th li ( x , y ) is a su co fo in sa - to - st ( x , y ) .
si , re li ( x , y ) th th ne st in th ex st yi th ex we ( x , wl ) a we ( y , w1 ) a le ( wl , w1 ) .
th ex is in tu re th th fi st of th ex st to yi th op de fo sa - to - st ( x , y ) .
to il th go re pr in gr de , co th fi st of fi 12 in wh th ex we ( x , wl ) a we ( y , w1 ) a le ( wl , w1 ) is re th th fi st of th ex st .
ea co of th ex is re se th th ap ru , in th fo - in wa .
th co is un ( ma ) wi th co ( ri - ha si ) of
12 no th th de of sa - to - st gi in ta 12 is a di de .
as no ab , th pr co on th di th is sa by th cu tr ex ( e . g . , th di in th li pr ) .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
th ru to yi so se of su ( pa va bi ) .
th su - ti co wi th ex is th ap to th an ( le - ha si ) of th ru to yi th re re ex . 12 an co of th or ex wh ca be un wi th co of an ru ar si ad to th re re ex ( wi th su ap to th ) .
as il - lu in th fi , re th co we ( x , wl ) th th ru vo ( p1 , vl ) a de ( p1 , dl ) - we ( p1 , vl ) th yi vo ( x , vl ) a de ( x , dl ) .
re th co we ( y , w1 ) th th ru is ( p1 , en ) - > we ( p1 , 12 ) yi is ( y , en - ta ) .
fi , si no ru co ca be un wi th co le ( wl , w1 ) , th co is si ad to th re re ex af ap th su pr by re th ot co .
in th ca th su ar ( x / pl , vl / wl , y / p1 , 12 / w1 ) , wh yi th th co le ( vl , 12 ) .
th fi , op de fo sa - to - st ( x , y ) is
vo ( x , vl ) a de ( x , dl ) a le ( vl , 12 ) a is ( y , en )
- sa - to - st ( x , y )
th ex ch in op te th fe of th tr ex - am th ar su fo th ex st to ca th in ge .
as su , it re a ju ge of th tr ex , fo wh th ex st se as a ju .
se ge po re th eb me ar il in th ab ex - pl .
th ma po of th ab ex is th th eb me pr a ju ge fr a si tr ex in a tw - st pr .
th fi st cr an ex th se th re fe va in th ex fr th ir on .
th se st an th ex to de th pa - ti co on th fe va th ar su fo th ex st to ap in ge .
th , ex - ba me su as eb ov - co th ma li of si - ba me : th in to pr ju ge .
th is ac by as th th le ha av kn of th do , th go co , an th op
12 it is co ob in de ( 12 ) th th su li us to re ex th pr st in th ex mu be ap to th cu ex be th ne re st .
cr , wh si - ba ge do no re on an of th
a se po il by th ab ex is th th la in wh th fi co de is st ca be qu ri .
no in th ab ex th th fi ge in a co th th pr of th de an vo of x mu be le th 12
th ar ve ma su re am th pa of th tr ex th mi be co du ge ( e . g . , wh no co th fa th th ow of th tw ob ar of di se ? ) .
th in po he is th th ap co wa de di by an th ex , wi co th un of po re am pa of th tr ex .
th is in ma co wi si - ba ge me ( e . g .
mi , 12 qu , 12 ) .
su me ar ty ba on a he fo cr , su as th he th ' le co fe ar pr ov mo co fe fo ch - iz co ' .
th , be su me wi co th fe le ( vl , 12 ) as a pl ba fo ge , th mu fi co va nu of sy si , ir fe .
a fi po il by th ex is th th fi co de pr - du by eb is ty a sp of th go co ra th a di re of th co .
th is la du to th fa th th ex st - tu is cr fo th gi tr ex , an do no ex ev po ex of th go co .
th , th ge pr fr an th ex wi on co ex fo wh th ex ho .
fu , be th mo go re al co on su ( no ne an su ) co un wh th ex ho , it le to a fu sp of th co .
th li of ex - ba ge su an in pr fo fu re : de ex - ba me th ca ut mu tr ex ( se th di - si in se 12 ) .
ot ex an va
th se di tw ad ex of ex - ba ge th ha pr be re in th li .
th fi is wi , bi , ka , an lo ' s ( 12 ) re on le st de of co su as ' cu ' fr th fu de .
th se is mi , ke , an ut ' s ( 12 ) re on le se he fr ex ( se al ut , 12 ke , 12 ) .
a co pe on th tw sy is pr by in th eb me fo bo pr .
di am th tw or ap an th eb me ar al co , in or to un so su of th eb me , an to su so po va .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
12 an ex : le th co cu
in th su we fi su th ap of th eb me to a se ex of an ex - ba ge pr : th cu ge pr , pa af th wo of wi et al .
( 12 ) .
we th di th re - ti be th eb me an th an pr of wi et al . , wh ad th sa pr .
th cu ge pr , de in ta 12 , in le a st de of a cu fr it fu de .
in pa , th go co he is th co cu , de as th cl of ob th ar op - ve , li - ab , an st .
th do th in ru th re th pr to th mo pr st pr of ph ob , su as fl , ha - dl , et .
th op cr re th th ou co de be us fo th ta of vi re ex of cu .
it th re th th ou co de be ex in te of it st fe .
fi 12 il a tr ex de a pa cu , ob , al wi th ex th sh ho ob sa th go co cu .
in pa - ti , th ex in ho ob is li , st , an an op - ve .
as in th sa - to - st ex , th ex di th re fe of th tr ex ( e . g . , it li ) fr ir fe ( e . g . , it co ) .
th se st of th eb me , re th go co th th ex st , re in th fo ge de of th cu co :
( pa - of ( x , xc ) a is ( xc , co ) a is ( xc , up - po ) a pa - of ( x , xb ) a is ( xb , bo ) a is ( xb , fl ) a pa - of ( x , xh ) a is ( xh , ha ) a is ( x , li ) ) - cu ( x )
ta 12 cu ge pr af wi et al .
( 12 )
go co : cl of ob , x , su th cu ( x ) , wh
cu ( x ) * li ( x )
pa - of ( ob , co - 12 )
is ( x , li ) a pa - of ( x , y ) a is ( y , ha ) - > li ( x ) pa - of ( x , y ) a is ( y , bo ) a is ( y , fl ) - st ( x ) pa - of ( x , y ) a is ( y , co ) a is ( y , up - po - op - ve ( x )
op cr : co de mu be ex in te of st fe us
in de ex ( e . g . , li , ha , fl , et . ) .
a ge of tr ex th is a su co de fo th go co an
th sa th op cr .
fi 12
ex of cu ( ob ) .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
as in th fi ex , th eb me is ab to pr a va ge fr a si tr ex , by ex an an ho th tr ex sa th de of th go co .
no th th re st in th ex is qu st , an le to ge th tr ex fe ef by re co wi va ( i . e . , re ob by x ) .
it is in th se ea at at ex - ba ge ( e . g . , mi , 12 ) in th as th th ex co al be ge si by re co by va in th ex , wi th ne to re th go co th th ex st . 12 as th ea sa - to - st ex il , th is no th ca .
in ge , on mu re th go co th th ex st to en a va ge - iz of th tr ex ( wh ma in co te fr di pa of th ex , re co wh no ge is po , an
se in fe of th ex co to li wh th eb me is co to th me us in wi et al . ' s ( 12 ) an pr , up wh th ex pr is ba .
th mo st di be th tw me is th al an do co an ex , an al us th ex to ge fr a si ex , th sy ha no do th of th ki us in th ab ex .
in , wi ' s pr co it ex by dr an be th tr ex an a li of pr ca ( e . g . , an de of ex su , br , bo , et . ) .
fo ex , an ex th th fl bo of ob al ob 12 to be st , by dr an an to a st de of a br wh ha be an wi th as th it fl bo ' ca ' it to be st .
si , it re on an an ex of a su to ex by an wh a ha al ob to be li .
in ge , th pr us by an ar as to be an by li th in wh fe of th pr ac fo wh of it pr .
th , fo th an pr , th ca li di ov th li of pr co it do th .
ho , th th is qu di - fe th th do th us in th cu ex ab : it is de by ex - te ra th in ( i . e . , by ex ra th by ge ru ) , an is th a we do th .
be an ' s kn ab ca is su by a co of in of ca re ra th by ge ru of ca , it th ca le de to as ab ne ca
th ob is du in pa to sr ma .
be it do th is we , th an sy ra so in qu ab ex - ba ge .
wh th sa - to - st an cu ex ab sh ho a su se of do th ru ca pr - vi po gu fo ge , an su ho a we , ex - te th mi be us to fo th ge pr in a we fa .
in pa , th ca li ar us by an to co a pl - bl ex , bu no a pr , th th tr ex sa th go co de .
as di ab , su pl ex ca gu ge by fo on pl re fe of th tr ex .
bu si an la ge in ru to ch th li in th ex , it ca pe th se ( go re ) st in th eb me , an th ha no va ba fo ge th ex .
in fa , th an pr ge an , im , as th ea ca li of th fo ( fe ( ob ) - > pr ( ob ) ) is su by a ge ru of th fo ( ( vx ) fe ( x ) - pr ( x ) ) . 12 th , an re an im st in co th us of a we do th to gu ge , an he to il a nu of op re is ( se th di in se 12 ) .
12 an ex : le a se he
th se pr a th ex of an ex - ba ge pr - th on in th le of se he .
th ex is ba on th pr ad by th le pr ( mi et al . , 12 ) wh le se co he fo so pr in th in ca .
in pa , le be wi a se of le op ( tr ) fo so in ( e . g . , in - te by pa , mo co ou th in ) .
fo ea su op , th sy le a he th su th cl of in ( pr st ) fo wh it is us to ap th op .
fo ex , on ty he le by th le sy is :
if th in is of th fo j <p ' - / / ? >< th ap in - by - pa
th , fo ea of it gi op , le fa a ge pr : le th cl of in fo wh th op is us in re a so .
ta 12 de th ge pr th co to le wh it is us to ap op ( mo co ou th in ) .
he th go co us - op ( x ) de th cl of pr st ( in ) fo wh op wi
12 wi ' s ( 12 ) ow wo on bu ru ce ca be vi as an at to ad di
th ar fr th im as .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
ta 12
th se he ge pr af mi et at .
( 12 )
go co : th cl of in ex th ca be so by fi ap op op ( re a co fr th in ) ; th is , th cl of in , x , su th us - op
us - op ( x ) no ( so ( x ) ) a so ( op ( x ) )
op : f r <a - fn
- > r f <a - fn .
tr ex : f 12 12
so ( x ) ( 12 ) ( so ( op ( x ) ) v so ( op ( x ) ) ) ma ( x , ' f <a - fn ' ) - no ( so ( x ) ) ma ( x , ' <a - fn ' ) - so ( x ) ma ( op ( x ) , y ) ma ( x , re ( y , op ) )
op cr : co de mu be ex in a fo th us ea - co - fe su as <p - fn ,
th pr st , x , ( e . g . ,
pu fe of < tr - fn > , <a - fn , r , k ) .
a ge of tr ex th is a su co de of th go co an
th sa th op cr .
be us .
th is de to be th cl of pr st th ar no al so ( i . e . , al ex th co an in si ) , an fo wh ap op le to a so pr st .
th do th in th ca co ru th re so an so to ob fe of pr - le st ( e . g . , on ru st th if pr st x ma th ex | < an ~ fn > dx , th x is no a so st . ) .
no th so of th do th ru co kn ab se an pr so in ge ( e . g . , th de of so ) , wh ot ru re kn sp to in - te ca ( e . g . , th th ab of an in si de a so st ) .
th op co in th pr re th th fi co de be st in te of ea - co fe of th gi pr st .
th re - qu as th th fi co de wi be in a fo th pe it ef us as a se co he . 12 fo th le pr , th se of ea - co fe is de by a we - de ge la ov pr st th in fe ( e . g . , < tr - fn > , < re - co > ) wh le ca ef re us it ma pr .
12 if th co de we pe to in fe th ar di to co ( e . g . , so ) , th th re he wo be so ex to ev th it us wo de , ra th im , th pr so ' s pe .
fi 12 , ex of us - op ( j 12 12 ) .
a tr ex fo th go co us - op is sh in th bo po - ti of fi 12
in pa , th pr st j 12 dx co a tr ex - pl of a pr st fo wh ap of op is us .
th tr ex de in th fi is sh al wi th ot pr st in in it
th ex of us - op ( j 12 12 ) is sh in th to po of fi 12
th le - ha br of th ex st le to a no wh as th us - op is sa in pa be th tr ex st is no al a so st .
th ri - ha br of th ex st ex - pl th ap op to th ex st le to a so pr st .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
th is in tu ex by in th ap op to th re st pr - du a so pr , as ev by th fa th th re st ma th ex ' <a - fn ' ( i . e . , th it co no in si ) .
th , up to th po ( ma as ( a ) in th fi ) , ea st in th ri - ha br of th ex st co to so st al th so pa of th
by po ( a ) , th ex ha in th on re fe of th tr ex st is th th re of ap op fo by op , is a st th ma ' <a - fn ' .
th op cr re , ho , th th ex be in te of fe of th si gi tr ex st , ra th fe of it re so st .
th , th re of th ex co of re th co in te of th tr ex st .
th is ac by ap th la ru in th do th of ta 12
th ru " al ba pr th ex ' <a - fn ' th th ge de - ti of op an op , to de th eq co on th tr ex st .
th re co is th th tr ex st mu ma th ex ' <a - fn f r1 - x r1 - 12 d x ' ( he r1 an r1 st fo tw di re nu , wh r1 mu no be eq to - 12 ) .
th to wi th le - ha br of th ex st , ex wh fe of f 12 gu th it sa th go co us - op
gi th ex st , th se st of th eb me is st - fo .
as in th cu ex , re th go co ex us - op ( x ) th th ex st ef re in re th tr ex st by a va , so th th re ge ( ta fr th le of th ex tr ) is :
wh si to :
12 th do th ru ma ( op ( x ) , y ) ma ( x , re ( y , op ) ) in th if th re of ap op op to st x ma so ex y , th th st x ma so ex wh ca be co by re th ex y th op op .
no th th re he in pr co on pr st th pr so op .
th is a di re st fr th se st of th eb pr , in wh th go co is re th th do th ru us in th ex st .
to su , th ex de ag th ge eb me of co - st an ex in te th sa th op co , th re th go co th th ex st to de a ju ge of th tr ex .
as in th pr ex , th pr re in a ge of th tr ex wh is a su co fo sa th go co , an wh is ju in te of th go co , do th , an op cr .
in th ab ex , th go co co to th pr fo a se he th is to be le .
th do th th in bo do - in kn ab se ( e . g . , th de of so ) an do - de kn ( e . g . , ho to re a so in ) .
to us th me to le he in a ne do , on wo ha to re on th do - de po of th th .
to le a di ty of he in th sa do , on co le th do th in , ch on th de of th us - op go co ac .
fo ex , as su in mi ( 12 ) , th sy co be mo to le he th su on st al th mi co so pa , by ch th go co to
us - op ( s ) no ( so ( s ) > a
mi - co - so ( so - pa ( op , s ) )
no th th ex st in th ex , li th do th , se in a do - in an a do - de po .
do - in kn ab se is ap ab po ( a ) in fi 12 , an do - de kn ab ca pr so op is ap be po ( a ) .
in th im of th le pr ( mi , 12 ) , th tw ph of th ex we co to be tw un su an we im as se pr .
fr th pe af by th eb me , ho , th tw su ar be se as di po of th sa ex - ge st .
on fi po re th cu ex ha to do wi th ab of ex - ba me to au th de la of co .
in le , as in th sa - to - st pr , th me is ab to is fa co - pl fe of th tr ex th ar di re to th ex of ho it sa th go co .
in th co of th le pr , ut ( 12 ) st th is an de th st su .
st is ab to ex th in vo of te us by le , by na an as te th co - re to th co de du th re st .
fo ex , in on in st de th de of od in th th re st , de it as ' th se of re nu , x , su th su 12 th di by 12 pr an in ' .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
12 . 12 re me fo st le
th ar a nu of ad sy th le pr so st by an si ex of su so . 12 th sy ( e . g .
fi et al . , 12 ut , 12 mi , 12 ma , 12 ) , wh we mi ca st - li sy , ca al be vi as sy th le a go co of th fo fo : ' th se of pr st su th ap a gi op se , os , yi a fi st ma a gi so pr , p . ' si th sy ar tu to th si go co , an ar no in to le ot fo of co - ce , th ty do no re th go co an ex de .
ho , th do re th so pr , p , ex , an re th pr - er th th op se os to de an op de of th ( im ) go co .
fr th pe of th ab le ex , th st th th pe co to co th po of th ex be po ( a ) in fi 12
it is in co th st of th ex th le re it so pr ' ma ( x , <a - fn ) ' th th op se < op , op > to de th eq co on th in pr st .
th st - li sy do no co th po of th ex co - re to th se ab po ( a ) in fi 12
be th ar tu to a fi go co , th do no ne to ge th po of th ex ex fo ea tr ex .
to il th po , co mi ' s ( 12 ) pr fo le se he in tw - pe ga su as go - mo , ti - ta - to , an ch .
th pr an on po in of a se of mo th le to a wi bo po , in or to de an op de of th go co ' th cl of bo po fo wh th gi se of mo le to a fo wi ' .
bu mi ' s sy ha no ex de of th go co .
it ha on a de of th so pr p th ch a wi po - ti .
fo ex , in th ga of go - mo , ( a va of ti - ta - to ) th so pr ch a wi bo po as ' a bo po wi fi x ' s in a ro ' .
th so pr is re by mi ' s pr th th op se fo th gi tr ex .
in th wa , th pr de - mi th an ef de of it im go co is ' bo po th co th x ' s , wi a bl sp on on si , an tw bl sp on th ot ' .
12 se ki an po ( 12 ) fo a th cr of an go re me fo le se co he .
th di ce re fo re to su : th th op be in , an th th re la be ab to ex go re pr .
pe an re is
th pr se pr a ge me fo ex - ba ge - ti , an il it ap to se ge ta .
th se su - ma so ge po re ex - ba ge , an co - si a nu of ou re is .
to su , ex - ba ge ut a do th an kn of th go co to gu th ge pr .
by do so , th me is ab to pr a va ge of th tr ex , al wi an ex th se as a ju fo th ge .
th eb me in he un me fo ex - ba ge th ha be pr re fo a va of ta do .
th ge of th eb me st fr th fa th th go co , do th , an op cr ar ma ex in to th me , ra th in im wi th me .
12 pe on ex - ba ge
se pe on ex - ba ge , an on th eb me in pa , ar us in un th st an we :
eb as th - gu ge of tr ex .
eb ca be se as th pr of in or pe a gi tr ex as a me of th go co , ba on a th of th do .
so ' s ( 12 ) ea wo on le ac se in th ga of ba sh th vi on ge .
th is th pe st in th ab se , an it hi th ce of th go co an do th .
it al hi an im fe of eb : th le de st on wh th le al kn .
on co of th is th th de of ge pr fo a pa tr ex wi de st on th ge wi wh th ru in th do th ar ex .
a se co is th th le sy ca im it le pe to th de th it ca le ne ru fo it do th .
eb as ex - gu op of th go co .
on ca al vi eb as th pr of re th go co in te th sa th op - ti cr , wi th do th pr th me fo re th go co .
gi th pe , on wo wh tr ex ar re - qu at al .
in pr , th ar no .
mo ' s ( 12 ) fo sy op ge ad ab ho to pl th ca ga of he , wi co sp ex th ap th ad .
si , ke ( 12 ) de a pr of co op , by wh a se of tr is ap to
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
th go co in se of a re th sa th op cr , wi th gu of sp tr ex .
ho , tr ex ca be cr in gu th le to co re - va tr of th go co .
fo in , co th cu le ta as de in se 12 , wh a fu de of cu is re in st te fo us by a vi sy re cu .
a sy th re - mu th fu de of cu in st te , wi th gu of tr ex , am to a sy fo pr al po st de fo cl of cu ( i . e . , fo de al po cl of cu ) .
si th ar so ma po de fo cu , an si so fe of th ar ac en in th wo , th le sy co ea wa it ef le st de co to cu th wi ne be se by th vi sy ! 12 tr ex th pr a me of fo th le on fo - mu on co de th ar re to th en in wh it
eb as re / op / de fr wh is al kn .
th ab pa su th ex - ba ge do no le to ac tr ' ne ' kn , bu on en th le to re / op / de wh th le al kn im .
wh th st - me is tr , it is so mi .
co , fo ex , th ta of le to pl ch .
on on is to th ru of th ga ( e . g . , th le mo , an ho to re a ch ) , on kn in pr ev th is to kn ab ch - ev th op st fo pl ch fo de fr th ru of th ga .
th , al th eb me is re to co th de co of it ex do th , th ki of le is of no ( as is th ca fo le ch st ) .
ne , it is a si li th eb is hi de up it do th .
as di be , fu re is ne to ex th me to ge ta in wh th do th is no su to de in th de co .
12 , 12 re is
12 . 12 im th pr
as th ab di po ou , on im as of eb is th th
12 of co in ab wh ty of cu ar to be en by th vi sy al co be pr in th op cr , si th in re to th us of th co de - ti fo th re ta .
th in , ho , ma no be ea de in th de fo re by th op cr .
do th is su to pr th th tr ex is a me of th go co th is , th th in ge fo de ( ev if re - ly ) fr wh th le al kn .
al th as is sa in ea of th ex pr pr ab , an al th ar in do - ma in wh th as is sa ( e . g . , ch , ci de ( mi et al . , 12 ) ) , fo th ma of re - wo le ta it is un to as th th le be wi su a st th .
fo bo th sa - to - st do an th cu do , it is ea to im mo re ex fo wh th re - qu do th is ex co , di to de , or si un .
fo ge pr su as in ge ru fo pr th st ma or th we , it is cl th av th of ec an me ar in to pr ab pr ru .
th , a ma re is fo ex - ba ge is to de me th ut im do th to gu ge , as we as me fo im im th as le pr .
th pr of de wi im th ca be br do in se cl of pr :
th in th pr .
th st ma an we pr ex ab bo il th in th pr .
th is he is th su th ar no co en to pr th th tr ex is a me of th go co ( e . g . , to pr wh a pa tr ex st ha do ov a tw mo pe ) .
ho , ev an in th mi al co - st pl ex su li li be fe of th tr ex an th go co .
fo ex , ev a we th of ec al on to su th th ' ca on ha ' of th co ma be re - va to th go co ' st th do ov a tw mo pe ' , wh th ' mi in of th co pr ' is pr an ir fe .
th , in th th co on in ab pl ca - ef re - ti , wi on qu ra th qu as , ca st pr im - po gu in ge .
me fo ut an re su in th wo co a ma st fo in un ex - ba
th in th pr .
a se cl of im th in th wh ar co , bu fo wh it is co pr to co ex - pl in te of th th .
fo in , qu ph co a fa co th th wo be in fo ge ex in th sa - to - st pr - ge th ne ex in te of qu ph is cl in .
si , al th ru of ch co - st a do th su to ex wh an gi mo is go or ba , on wo ne us th th to ex wh th op mo ' pa to ki fo ' is a me of th go co ' mo th le to a wi or dr fo wh ' .
in fa ,
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
th th of ch is in fo ex wh ne an mo is go or ba .
hu te to re to th pr by co mo ab , tr th th ar ap to th un in th .
in ch , fo ex , th le mi fo a mo ab th th in ap - im as su as ' th is no th to th ki if it is su by ma fr pi ' ( ta , 12 ) .
su ap , ab th ca be tr - ta en an ac en to se as a us ba fo cr an le fr ex .
de co me th ca co su ab th , an th ca ju wh th ca sa be ap , is a pr fo fu
th in th pr .
a th di ar in th fr wh in st ca be de .
th do th in th sa - to - st pr pr on ex of su a th .
wh th th ha a de ru fo in th we of an en ta , it al ha a ru fo co we fr th kn de an vo .
th , th th wi co tw di we fo a gi en ta pr th it de an vo ar kn , an pr th th ar in wi th de as ab it we .
in su ca , it is po to co in ex fo a si tr ex - pl .
fu , if tw di tr ex of th sa co ar ex in in te ( e . g . , by ut on de as fo on ex , an so ot as fo th se ex ) , di wi ce - ta ar in me th re ge .
be of th , an be de as ar co in th of ma do , th pr of de wi in th an in ex is al an im on fo fu re .
12 . 12 co ex - ba an si - ba me
wh eb in co de de fr a si ex , si - ba me in co de in fr a nu of tr ex - am .
it se cl de to de co me th wo ut bo a do th an mu tr ex to in co de .
th ki of co ap to ge wi pr be es in do - ma wh on im th ar av .
al fe re ha be ac in co ex - ba an si - ba me , a nu of re ha be to co th is .
le ( le , 12 ) is ex me fo co si - ba me an ex - ba me in hi un sy .
un ex - am a da of th vo re of co , se fo em , si - ba ge ( e . g . , mi we co vo in fa of fa su ) .
th sy th at to ve th em ge
by ex th in te of a do th ( e . g .
ex ho mi co - gr sa th go co ' pe wh fa fa su ' ) .
th ap - pr ha th ad th th si - ba te ca be us to ge a ca se of po ge fr a la nu of po no tr ex .
on su em ge ar fo , ex - ba me ca he pr an re th by us ot kn in th
wh le ' s ap in ap si - ba ge fo by ex - ba me , an al ap is to fi ap ex - ba me to ea tr ex , th to co th re ge ex us a si - ba ge te .
co , fo ex , us th ve sp me to co th re of ex - ba ge of a nu of tr ex ( mi , 12 ) .
si th ex - ba ge of a po tr ex co a su - ci co fo th go co , th ca be us as a ge po ex - pl to re ( ge ) th sp bo se of th ve sp .
si , on co im ge ne tr ex us ex - ba ge , by ex wh th ar no me of th go co .
th re ge ne ex co th be us to re ( sp ) th ge bo se of th ve sp .
th , wh th co me st su - fe th ma di of si - ba me ( i . e . , it ma in le ba on it ge la , wh it ca ju ) , it co mo ra on a fi co de be it em eb to ge ea tr -
ke - ca ( 12 , 12 ) pr an al me fo co th re of ex - ba ge fr mu tr ex .
th me , pu - di an , in co an ex of on ex - am by an wi an ex of a fa ex , th co th tw ex to pr a ge co de ba on bo .
gi ex - ti fo tw di ex , th pr sy co th ex as fo : co po of th tw ex re un in th co - bi ex .
di po ei be di su in th co ex , or ar ge to th ne mo sp co su in th ex .
fo ex , gi an ex th a bl , ce mu is a cu , an a se ex of a wh st cu , th ex - ti of th fi ex is us to co by an an ex fo th
12 th ve sp me ( mi , 12 ) is a si - ba ge me ba on su - ma th al pl co de by ma tw se : th ' sp ' se co th se of mo sp co de co wi th ob da , an th ' ge ' se co th mo ge co de co wi th da .
al ot pl co de li be th tw se in th ge - to - sp or ov co de .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
se ex .
th tw re ex ma di in ho th ex th th tw ex cu ar gr ( as th fi ex cu is gr be it ha a ha , wh th se is gr be it is co ) .
in th ca , a ge of th tw ex wo in a di , th ei th co sh , or a ha , ma it gr .
th , al wi th co fe of th tw ob in th co ex st le to th ge th cu in ob wh ar co up - wa , ha a fl bo , ar li , an ha ei a co sh or a ha .
al - na , th co ex wo re on th ne mo - sp co su , gr , wh wo le to a sl mo ge , ye le op , de of a cu .
th , th me of co ex of mu ex pr a pr me fo in di wh ne in th co ge of th tw ex .
th me di ab fo co si - ba an ex - ba ge of di ad .
th fi me us si - ba ge to de em ge wh ma th be va an re by ex - ba me .
th se me in - vo em a si - ba me to co th re of ex - ba ge fr mu ex .
it su th di th th co of me st pr un ge .
th th me me th ex of mu ex in or to pr a co ge th is ju in te of th me ex .
mo re is re on th an ot po me fo em ex - ba me wh mu tr ex ar av .
12 . 12 fo ge ta
th ab di fo on re is wi th fr of ex - ba ge .
an eq im se of re is ha to do wi ho su me fo ge wi be us as su of la sy th im th pe at so gi ta .
as ou un of ge me ad , qu ab ho to co pe sy th in ge me wi be in
on ke is to co in th re is ho ge ta ar in fo - mu .
in ot wo , wh do th in to th eb me ( th go co , th do th , th op cr ) co fr ? is it po to bu a sy th au fo it ow ge ta an th in ? is it po to bu le sy th au sh th fo of at fr on le pr to th ne as re ? wh ki of kn mu be tr be th pe sy an th le sy to en th au fo of ge ta ?
ag , li wo ha be de to th is .
th so sy ( la et al . , 12 , la et al . , 12 ) is on ex of a le sy th fo it ow ge ta .
ea ti th so en an so a su , it fo th ge pr of in th ge co un wh it ca re th so to th su .
so th ut a te cl re to ex - ba ge , ca im ge ( la et al . , 12 ) , to in th su pr .
a se re ef wh co th pr of fo le ta is ke ' s re on co le ( ke , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
in th wo , ke su ho a pr so sy co ge pr su as th ad by th le sy .
in pa , he sh ho th ta of le th go co us - op ar as a su in th pr of pl to im pe at so ca pr .
by re fr a to - le go of im th ef of th pr so , as we as a de de of th pr so se sc , th me de th su of in a fi to pr th se mo th it co .
th de of th fi in th sp th it is to al on pr so st th ar ' us ' ( i . e . , th le to so ) .
th su of in th fi le , in tu , to th pr of op th de of ' us ' ( i . e . , to th su co to th le ge ta ) .
re wo by ke - ca ( 12 ) al ad th pr of fo le ta .
in th wo , ke - ca pr a sy to au fo - mu de of go co in th do of ar .
in pa , th pr sy de fu de of ar ( e . g . , cu ) fr in - ma ab th pu fo wh ag us th ( e . g . , to sa th th ) .
gi tw di pu fo wh an ag mi us a cu ( e . g . , as an or - me , ve to sa th ) , tw di fu de ca be de . 12 to de th fu de of th ar , th pr sy fi co a pl of ac th le to sa th ag ' s go .
fo ex , if th ag ' s go is to sa th , th th pl mi be to po th li in th cu , gr th cu wi th li in or to li , an fi dr th li .
in or to be us as pa of th pl , th ar mu sa th pr of th pl ac in wh it is in .
th pr fo th fu de of a cu : an op - ve , wh is st , gr , li .
th , fo - mu fu de of ar is ac by an th ro th th ar pl in fa th go of so ag .
12 th ex wi ' s wo ( se se 12 ) , in th it ca de it ow go co fr a gi
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
12 . 12 us co kn to so th ge ta
ab we ha di so ap to au fo le ta , gi kn of th pe ta fo wh th le ta pl .
in ca wh th le fo it ow le ta , in ab ho an wh th ta wa fo ca pr im gu in so th le ta .
ke ' s ( 12 ) me sy pr an ex of ho su in ca be us in gu le .
li le , me ad th le ta of op th go co us - op
it ta as in a pr re of th pe ta to be im ( th ca pr so ) , a sp of th pe ob to be ac ( ' mi pr so ti ' ) an kn of th pe pl ( se sp pr vi fi ) , wh is a re of ho th op - ti ta wa or fo .
me us th ad kn ab th co in wh it le ta wa fo to gu it se fo an op tr of th go co .
sp , it ex th ca pr so us th in ( an su in ) de of th go co to co di in wh ai in op th go co if pe ob ar no sa .
in ef , th pe ta an pe ob in re by me el on th op cr re by th eb me .
in of ev op in te of a bi - va pr ov co - ce de ( as in eb ) , me ev th de of op of th co de in re to th pe ta an ob .
th ab to ma a mo so an of op en me to ma im di am al co de .
fo ex , be me us ap ( no tr - pr ) tr to mo th go co , it ca ge co de th on ap th go co - ce .
in su ca , me is ab to de wh su an ap co de is de ba on th de to wh it he im th pe -
as th fi se of th pa de , ex - ba ge me of si pr in at to bu co mo of le sy .
si pr ha be ma in un ex - ba ge , es fo pr in wh th le po a co an co th .
as th fi se il , mu mo re to be di ab ho a le ca us wh it al kn to gu th ac of ne
th pe on ex - ba ge re he ha ar fr di ov a pe of ti wi a nu of pe in th ma le gr at ru an el .
di wi th fo pe ha be pa us in fo th id pr he : al bo , ge de , th di , th mc , sr ma , ja mo , mi si , pr ta , pa ut , an ke wi .
we al th th fo pe fo pr us co on an ea dr of th pa : pa la , sr ma , ja mo , lo st , pr ta , an ke wi .
th ma is ba on wo su by th de ad re pr - je ag un re co n1 - 12 - k - 12 , by th na sc fo un gr dc - 12 an mc - 12 , by th na in of he un gr rr - 12 , by gt un gr gt , an by a ru un gr fe .
th vi an co co in th do - me ar th of th au an sh no be in as ne re - in th of vi or po of th sp .
th ap de de ' s re on ex - ba ge .
in pa , it ca th wo on le sc fo st un in te of th eb me .
in ad to th pr , th ha be a gr de of re re on ex - ba ge , in ( de , 12 el , 12 mo , 12 o ' ro , 12 ra , 12 sc , 12 se , 12 sh , 12 si , 12 wa , 12 wi , 12 ) .
de ( 12 , 12 ) de on of th ea su ex - ba ge sy as pa of hi re on ex sc ac .
de is in in th pr of le sc fo us in na la st un .
de ' s sy ta as in an ex st an pr as ou a ge sc re th st ac se th is in in th st .
fo ex , th sy ca pr th fo st ( ad fr g .
de , pe co , no 12 , 12 ) :
fr is ma ' s fa .
fr is ri .
ma we bl je .
jo ap ma .
he po a gu at he .
he to he to ge in hi ca .
jo dr ma to th ho .
he lo he in hi ro .
jo ca fr .
he to fr he ha ma .
he pr no to ha he if fr ga hi $1 , 12 at tr ' s re .
fr de th mo .
ma ar ho in a ta .
mi , r . m .
ke an s . t .
ke - ca
it th pr as ou a ge sc fo ki .
th ki sc co on th re de of th ki ( e . g . , th th pe ar in : pe a wh wa mo , pe b wh ha mo an pe c wh is va by pe b ) , bu no of th ir de ( e . g . , th pe c we bl je ) .
de ' s sy us a ge me th cl pa th eb me .
al th is no di co to th go co in de ' s sy , th go co ca be th of as ' th cl of ac se th ac pe go x fo ac y . ' fo th ki st , th ac ' s pe go is ' at of we . ' th sy co an ex fo ho th ac in th st le to th ki ' s ' at of we ' as a by - pr of th st - un pr .
du th st pa , da de li ar cr to co ac in th st wi th in ru th ar us by th pa in in th ac .
th se of in ru co a do th fo de ' s sy , an in kn ab th go an pl of hu ac , as we as ca kn us to se up an ve ex fo fu ac .
th ne of al th da de li cr du th st pa is ca an in ju ne , an co to an ex fo th ac se .
ge of th in ju ne is ca ou by re ge en fo th sp ob an ev re in th ne .
as wi th eb me , th en in th in ju ne ar ge as fa as po wh ma th co of th da de li . 12 th a ne sc is co fr th ne .
th is of op en in th pr of de an ap le of ge fo th sc co fr th ne .
sh , fo ex , a ge sc be cr to de th ki ac se or th mo ge ac se re ba - fo - mo or ba - fo - we ? al of th sc ex th ac in th ex st .
de ci se cr to us in de th le of ge at wh to re - se th ne sc ( de , 12 ) .
th cr in su co as : 12 ) wi th ge sc be us in pr st in th fu , or do th sc su an ev th is un to re ? 12 ) ar th pr fo sc ac co ac ? 12 ) wi th ne sc re a mo ef me of ac pe go th ex sc ? no th th sc ge cr ro co to th op cr us in th eb me .
be th ge sc ar su us fo a st - un ta , th op cr pe to th ta .
12 it is un wh th sy re it eq of th go co th th in
ta 12
th we ac sc ge pr : le ab wa to ac we
* go co : th cl of ac se ( i . e . , a ge sc ) by wh ac x ca ac
we - ac - ac - se al , a1 , .
. , an , x )
no ( we ( x , s1 ) ) a we ( x , ex ( x , <a , a1 , .
. , an , s1 ) )
<a , a1 , .
, an is an ac se x is th ac s1 is th ac ' s cu st an ex - cu ( a , b , c ) re th st re fr th ex of ac se b by ac a in st
tr ex : th ki st :
fa - of ( fr , ma ) a we ( fr )
a de ( jo ) a we ( ma , bl - je ) a ap ( jo , ma , s1 ) a po - gu - at ( jo , ma , s1 )
a ex ( fr , jo , $1 , ma , s1 )
do th : ru ab hu in , an kn ab hu go , in ,
fa - of ( pe 12 , pe ) - lo ( pe 12 , pe 12 ) a va ( pe 12 , pe )
we ( pe ) - > ha ( pe , $1 ) ex ( pe 12 , pe , ob 12 , ob )
no ( ha ( pe , ob ) ) a va ( pe , ob ) a no ( ha ( pe , ob ) ) a va ( pe , ob ) a ha ( pe , ob ) a ha ( pe , ob )
op cr : ac ge ( i . e . , th ge sc ) mu sa th re -
qu fo fu us in st - un ( se te ) .
a ge of tr ex ( i . e . , a ge sc ) th is a su co de - ti fo th go co ( i . e . , th is a sp of th we ac sc ) an th sa th op cr .
ta 12 su th ex - ba ge pr ad by
th ex sc ac re .
