mos com mod of sup lea rel onl on lab tra exa , and ign the pos rol of unl dat .
thi is tru bot for cog sci mod of lea suc as soa new and act - r and , et al .
, and for mac lea and dat min alg suc as dec tre lea and ind log pro see , e . g . , mit .
in thi pap we con the pot rol of unl dat in sup lea .
we pre an alg and exp res dem tha unl dat can sig imp lea acc in cer pra pro .
we the ide the abs pro str tha ena the alg to suc uti thi unl dat , and pro tha unl dat wil boo lea acc for pro in thi cla .
the pro cla we ide inc pro whe the fea des the exa are red suc for cla the exa a not we mak pre in the pap .
thi pro cla inc man nat lea pro fac by hum , suc as lea a sem lex ove nou phr in nat lan , and lea to rec obj fro mul sen inp .
we arg tha mod of hum and ani lea sho con mor str the pot rol of unl dat , and tha man nat lea pro t the cla we ide .
a sup lea pro : lea to cla web pag
to ill the rol of unl dat in sup lea , con the pro of lea to cla pag of hyp fro the wor wid web , giv lab tra dat con of ind web pag alo wit the cor cla fig .
we hav bee stu thi pro as par of our lar res goa of aut ext inf fro the web cra et al .
pro joh smi
hi ! i tea com cou and adv stu , inc
in my spa tim i wor on a num of res pro , inc mac lea for web
act lea for rob con
fig : tra exa of a fac hom pag . " the tas of cla a web pag can be ach by con jus the wor on the web pag .
alt , the pag can be cla usi onl the wor on hyp tha poi to the web pag e . g . , my adv " pro smi " .
whe exa are des by suc red suc fea , unl dat can be use to boo the acc for sup lea .
for exa , one spe tas we hav con is tra a sys to cla web pag int cat suc as stu hom pag , " fac hom pag , " hom pag of an aca cou , "
thi web pag cla pro can be for as a typ sup lea pro .
by sup lea pro " we mea tha the is som set x of ins , and the is som tar fun f : x ! y to be lea , giv a set of tra exa of the for fhx f xii .
in our cas , x is the set of all web pag , y is the set of pos cla e . g . , stu " fac " nei " , and the fun f to be lea in the fun tha map an arb pag x to its cor cla .
for the ith lab tra exa , xi is a par web pag , and f xi is the cor cla for xi , pro by an ext tea .
as dis in cra et al .
, a num of sup lea alg can be app to the pro of lea to cla web pag .
one com app is to rst rep eac web pag by a lar fea vec , whe eac pos wor in the lan cor to a fea , and the val of the fea is the num of tim the wor occ in the web pag .
thi bag of wor " rep obv ign inf abo the seq in whi wor occ .
how , thi rep of web pag as lar fea vec ena us to app sta sup lea alg for cla of fea vec .
for exa , if we tra a nai bay cla mit on a set of app , lab web pag , we ach acc of app in cla new web pag int the cat men abo cra et al . , .
set l of lab tra exa
set u of unl exa
lea hyp - bas cla h fro l
lea ful - tex cla f fro l
all h to lab p pos and n neg exa fro u
all f to lab p pos and n neg exa fro u
add the sel - lab exa to l
tab : a cot alg , for tra two cla and usi unl dat to boo the
whi we can ach rea acc aft tra on tho of han lab web pag , in thi pap we are int in the que of how unl dat can be use .
in fac , thi is a cru que in our web pag cla tas , bec it is cos to han lab tho of web pag , and bec it is ver eas to obt hun of mil of unl pag fro the web .
how can we use unl web pag to mor acc lea to cla fut pag ? the ans can be see by rst obs tha the web con an int kin of red inf abo eac web pag , as sho in gur .
as sho in thi gur , we cou cla the web pag eit by con the wor on the pag its as sug in the par abo , or we cou cla the pag by ign the wor on the pag and ins con the wor on hyp tha poi to the pag .
in man cas , the wor on the hyp wil be suc to cla the exa , and the wor on the pag its wil als be suc .
in suc cas , we wil say the two set of fea the hyp wor , and the web pag wor are red suc to cla the exa .
we wil see bel tha in gen if the ins x for som sup lea tas can be fac int set of red suc fea , the unl dat can be use to boo the acc of cla tra wit lim lab dat .
lea wit red suc fea
how can we use unl dat to boo the lea acc for our web cla pro ?
pag - bas cla hyp - bas cla com cla
tab : err rat in per for cla web pag as cou hom pag .
the top row sho err whe tra on onl the lab exa .
bot row sho err whe co - tra , usi bot lab and unl exa .
the rig col sho the cla acc whe the two cla are pro equ vot on the nal cla .
the res rep her are the ave of ve ind run of the alg wit die ran sta exa .
the key ide is tha we wil tra two ind cla rat tha one .
one cla wil use onl the wor on the web pag , and the oth cla wil use onl the wor on the hyp .
we beg by tra bot cla usi wha lab tra exa are ava .
pre thi wil res in two cla tha are imp , but bet tha ran .
now we use the unl dat as fol : eac cla is all to exa the unl dat and to pic its mos con pre pos and neg exa , and add the to the set of lab exa .
in oth wor , eac cla is all to aug the poo of lab exa .
bot cla are now ret on thi aug set of lab exa , and the pro is rep as lon as des .
tab sum thi co - tra alg .
why sho thi co - tra alg lea to mor acc cla ? the int is tha if the hyp cla nds an eas cla " hyp in the unl dat e . g . , one tha is qui sim to one of the lab exa on whi it was tra , the web pag tha it poi to wil be add to the lab poo of exa as wel .
of cou jus bec the hyp hap to be eas to cla doe not mea the web pag wil be eas cla by the oth cla .
if not , the the hyp cla has add use tra inf to imp the oth cla .
sim , the web pag cla can add exa tha are eas for it to cla , but tha pro use inf to imp the acc of the hyp cla .
in exp , we hav fou tha thi cot alg doe imp cla acc in one exp blu and mit , , sum whe lea to cla web pag .
in tab , we tra a cla to lab web pag as hom pag of aca cou .
exp we pro jus lab exa , and app unl pag dra fro com sci dep web sit .
on eac ite of co - tra , eac cla was all to add new pos and new neg exa to the poo of lab exa .
aft ite of the cot alg , the acc of the com cla was , com to whe onl the lab dat was use .
in thi cas , the imp of cot was to red the err by bet tha a fac of two .
giv the exp evi tha cot can be use in at lea one cas , it is use to cha the gen pro set in whi thi kin of alg can ben fro unl dat .
her we den a pro set in whi we can pro tha unl dat wil be of hel .
to den the gen pro set tha cap the ess str of our web cla exa , rec tha ear we den a sup lea pro as one whe we hav som set of ins x , a tar fun f : x ! y , and lab exa fhx f xii .
in the cot set , we ass suc a sup lea pro in whi the ins are dra fro x acc to som xed pos unk pro dis d .
we fur ass tha x = x x; tha is , the ins in x can be fac int two par e . g , .
the hyp wor and the web pag wor .
we req als tha x and x eac con inf suc to cla the exa .
in oth wor , we req tha the exi som fun g : x ! y and som fun g : x ! y suc tha for all x x; gx = gx = f x .
not the lea is not exp to kno f , g or g in adv .
we sim req tha it be pos to exp f in ter of x and in ter of x i . e . , tha x and x bot be suc to cla x acc to f .
if the abo con on x and x are sat , the we wil say tha x and x are red suc to cla x wit res to f .
in blu and mit we sho tha if f : x ! y is pac lea fro noi lab dat , x and x are red suc to cla x wit res to f , and if xb and xb are con ind giv f x , the f can be pac lea giv a wea ini cla plu onl unl dat .
wha thi mea is tha if the lab dat are suc to tra a bet tha ran ini cla , if x and x are dis ind for eac tar val of f , and if f can be lea acc giv an arb num of lab exa , the f can be lea to sim acc giv jus thi wea ini cla and an arb num of unl exa .
the sig is tha thi pro tha unl exa can sub for lab exa , und the con of the the .
in blu and mit we als sho tha unl dat is of pot val und the mor gen set in whi x and x are not ind dis .
the we sho tha if the tra dat is noi - fre , the unl x and x are det rel e . g . , one val of x is alw pai wit the sam x , the unl dat can be of use .
oth lea tas wit red suc fea
giv the suc of cot as a met for usi unl dat whe lea to cla web pag , and giv the for cha of the cla of pro for whi cot can be of use , it is int to ask wha oth nat lea pro all thi app .
her we sum a num of tas :
lea to cla nou phr int sem cla .
in ril and jon , an app sim to cot was app to the pro of lea a sem lex ove nou phr in eng .
in thi pap , one tas was to lea to cla nou phr as pos or neg exa of loc e . g . , san seb " is pos , blu " is neg .
in thi cas eac exa , x , is a sen suc as we are loc in lov pit . " the fac of x int two red suc fea set is don as fol : x is the nou phr its e . g . , pit " in the abo sen , and x is the lin con in whi the nou phr app e . g . , we are loc in lov | " .
not tha in mos cas it is pos to det whe the nou phr is a loc giv eit x or x .
not als tha the val of x and x are dis fai ind i . e . , wit mig see the sam x as abo , but wit a die x .
sta wit a lis of jus kno nou phr , the sys use an alg sim to cot to lea doz of add loc .
lea to sel wor sen .
in yar , , an app sim to cot was app to lea to dis wor sen e . g . , to det whe the wor pla " ref to a man pla or to a bot pla .
her , eac ins x cor to a con con the wor in que sim to the ril and jon exa abo .
how , the fac of x is int mor tha two com , wit eac wor ser as a can com , and thi alg see to not map dir int cot .
but it is qui sim , and the pro cou be att usi a cot app .
lea to rec pho in spe .
in de sa and bal , , an app to ful uns lea was app to a pro wit nea red suc fea .
in thi cas , the tas is to lea to cla spe pho , bas on bot the aud sig and the vid sig wat the spe lip .
her eac ins x cor to the ful dat , x cor to the aud sig , and x cor to the vid sig .
aga , we may rou ass tha eit of x or x is suc to det the pho , and the can tra two cla on lim lab dat , and let the tra eac oth ove the unl dat .
in fac , de sa and bal use no lab dat at all , ins per a kin of clu in whi the aud sig mus pre the vid , and vic ver .
the sys was abl to lea clu cor to the spo pho in the dat .
obj rec in mul dat .
con the pro of lea to rec obj in mul dat , suc as the con str of aud , vid , and oth sen inp a per rec .
a ver sim tas is to lea to cla tel seg , bas on the ong str of vid , aud , and clo cap tex .
in thi lat cas , con the pro of lea to spo tel seg in whi bor yel app .
her we cou con eac ins x to be a sna con the aud , vid and tex at a par tim .
her x cou be the aud , x the vid , and x the tex .
not tha in som cas we mig see eas " exa of vid a ful fac of yel , or an eas aud his voi wit bac
noi , or an eas tex the wor yel .
thu , we cou exp cot to pro a use app to usi unl dat to tra cla .
to my kno , thi exp has not
dis and con
we hav des a cla of sup lea pro for whi unl dat can be pro to imp lea acc .
the key den fea of thi pro cla are tha the ins x can be fac int two or mor com x , x : : : , whi are red suc to cla the exa , and the com cov , so tha a par xi doe not alw co - occ wit the sam xj . .
we hav des the cot alg tha use unl dat for suc pro , and hav pre exp and the res sho tha in the pro unl dat can ind be use to imp acc for sup lea .
the con to hum and ani lea app to be a ric are for fut stu .
hum and oth ani hav a ric set of sen inp , whi inc red suc dat for man tas .
for exa , sme , vis , sou can all be use in try to cla whe foo is nea , and in man cas the dat fro jus one of the cha is suc .
de sa and bal suc wit a cot - lik alg for lea to cla pho fro vid and aud sim to tha obs by hum is als sug .
per peo rel les tha we sus on lab dat to ach suc lea for var cla tas .
tha to my col on thi wor , avr blu , for man int dis and ide .
seb thr , ros jon , and mcc , and kam nig hav als con ide and sug alo the way .
thi wor has bee sup by dar und res con
