how can art neu net gen bet fro few exa ? in ord to gen suc , neu net lea met typ req lar tra dat set .
we int a neu net lea met tha gen rat fro man few dat poi , rel ins on pri kno enc in pre lea neu net .
for exa , in rob con lea tas rep her , pre lea net tha mod the eff of rob act are use to gui sub lea of rob con fun .
for eac obs tra exa of the tar fun ( e . g .
the rob con pol ) , the lea exp the obs exa in ter of its pri kno , the ana thi exp to inf add inf abo the sha , or slo , of the tar fun .
thi sha kno is use to bia gen whe lea the tar fun .
res are pre app thi app to a sim rob tas bas on rei lea .
neu net lea met gen fro obs tra dat to new cas bas on an ind bia tha is sim to smo int bet obs tra poi .
the res ( val , 123 ) , ( bau and hau , 123 ) on lea , as wel as pra exp , sho tha suc pur ind met req sig lar tra dat set to lea fun of inc com .
thi pap int exp - bas neu net lea ( ebn ) , a met tha gen suc fro few tra exa , rel ins on pri kno enc in pre lea neu net .
ebn is a neu net ana to sym exp - bas lea met ( ebl ) ( dej and moo , 123 ) , ( mit et al . , 123 sym ebl met gen bas upo pre - spe dom kno rep by col of sym rul .
mit and thr
for exa .
in the tas of lea gen rul for rob con ebl can use pri kno led abo the eff of rob act to ana gen fro spe tra exa of suc con act .
thi is ach by a .
obs a seq of sta and act lea to som goa .
exp ( i . e .
pos - fac pre ) the out of thi seq usi the dom the .
the c .
ana thi exp in ord to det whi fea of the ini sta are rel to ach the goa of the seq .
and whi are nol in pre app to ebl .
the ini dom kno has bee rep sym .
typ by pro rul or hom cla .
and has typ bee ass to be com and cor
123 ebn : int ind and ana lea
ebn ext exp - bas lea to cov sit in whi pri kno ( als cal the dom the ) is app and is its fro scr .
in ebn , thi dom the is rep by rea - val neu net .
by usi neu net rep .
it bec pos to lea the dom the usi tra alg suc as the bac alg ( rum et al . , 123 in the rob dom add in thi pap .
suc dom the net cor to act mod .
i . e . , net tha mod the eff of act on the sta of the wor m : s x a - + sf ( her a den an act , s a sta .
and sf the suc sta ) .
thi dom the is use by ebn to bia the lea of the ' rob con fun .
bec the act mod may be onl app cor .
we req tha ebn be rob wit res to sev err in the dom the .
the rem of thi sec des the ebn lea alg .
ass tha the rob age ' s act spa is dis .
and tha its dom kno is rep by a col of pre - tra act mod mi : s - + sf .
one for eac dis act i .
the lea tas of the rob is to lea a pol for act sel tha max the rew , den by r .
whi def the tas .
mor spe .
the age has to lea an eva fun q ( s , a ) .
whi mea the cum exp rew whe act a is exe at sta s .
onc lea .
the fun q ( s , a ) all the age to sel act tha max the rew r ( gre pol ) .
hen lea con red to lea the eva fun q .
123 how can the age use its pre lea act mod to foc its lea of q ? to ill .
con the epi sho in fig 123
the ebn lea alg for lea the tar fun q con of two com , an ind lea com and an ana lea com .
123 the ind com of ebn the obs epi is use by the age to con tra exa , den by q , for the eva fun q :
q cou for exa be rea by a mon neu net , or by a col of net ( cid : 123 ) wor tra wit the bac tra pro .
as obs tra epi are acc , q wil bec inc acc .
suc pur ind lea typ -
ith app to lea a pol is ado fro rec res on rei lea
( bar et al . , 123 ) .
exp - bas neu net lea for rob con
_ - - - - - ~ rew : r
fig 123 : epi : sta wit the ini sta si .
the act seq ai , az , a12 was obs to pro the fin rew r .
the dom kno rep by neu net act mod is use to pos - fac pre and ana eac ste of the obs epi .
ica req lar amo of tra dat ( whi wil be cos in the cas of rob
123 the ana com or ebn
in ebn , the age exp its dom lrn to ext add sha lrn abo the tar fun q .
to spe con and red the num of tra exa req .
thi sha lrn .
rep by the est slo of the tar fun q .
is the use to gui the gen pro .
mor spe .
ebn com the abo ind lea com wit an ana lea com tha per the fol thr ste for eac obs tra epi :
exp : pos - fac pre the obs epi ( sta and fin rew ) , usi the act mod mi ( c . f .
not tha the may be a dev bet pre and obs sta .
sin the dom lrn is onl app cor .
ana : ana the exp to est the slo of the tar fun for eac obs sta - act pai ( 123 : , a12 : ) ( k = 123 . 123 ) .
ext the der of the fin rew r wit res to the fea of the sta 123 : .
acc to the act mod mi .
for ins .
con the exp of the epi sho in fig .
the dom the net mi rep dif fun .
the it is pos to ext the der of the fin rew r wit res to the pre sta 123
den by " v ' 123 .
usi the cha rul of dif .
the der of the fin rew r wit res to all sta 123 : can be ext .
the der " v , , , r des the dep of the fin rew upo fea of the pre sta .
the pro the tar slo .
den by " v , , , q .
for the tar fun q :
" v ' 123 q 123 , a12 )
" v ' 123 r
om1 , ( 123 ) om1 ( 123 )
om1 ( 123 ) 123 ( 123 ) 123 ( 123 )
lea : upd the lea tar fun to bet fit bot the tar val and tar slo .
123 ill tra inf ext by bot the ind ( val ) and the ana ( slo ) com ofe .
ass tha the " tru " q - fun
mit and thr
fig : fit slo : let / bea tar fun for whi tbr ( xl , i ( xt ) ) .
( x12 , i ( x12 ) ) .
and ( x12 , 123 ( x12 ) ) are kno .
bas on the poi the lea mig gen the hyp g .
if the slo are als kno .
the lea can do muc bet : h .
is sho in fig .
123 , and tha thr tra ins at xl , x12 and x12 are giv .
whe onl val are use for lea , i . e . , as in sta ind lea , the lea mig con the hyp g dep in fig .
if the slo are kno as wel , the lea can bet est the tar fun ( fig .
fro thi exa it is cle tha the ana in ebn may red the nee for tra dat , pro tha the est slo ext fro the exp are suf acc .
in ebn , the fun q is lea by a rea - val fun app tha fit bot the tar val and tar slo .
if thi app is a neu net , an ext ver of the bac alg can be emp to fit the slo con as wel , as ori sho by ( sim et al . , 123 the alg " tan pro " ext the bac err fun by a sec ter mea the mea squ err of the slo .
gra des in slo spa is the com wit bac to min bot err fun .
in the exp rep her , how , we use an ins - bas fun app tec des in
123 acc imp dom the
not tha the slo ext fro exp wil be onl app cor , sin the are der fro the app act mod mi .
if thi dom kno is wea , the slo can be arb poo , whi may mis gen .
ebn red thi und eff by est the acc of the ext slo and wei the ana com of lea by the est slo acc .
gen spe , the acc of slo is est by the pre acc of the exp ( thi heu has bee nam lob * ) .
mor spe , eac tim the dom the is use to pos - fac pre a sta sk+ , its pre st ~ ict may dev fro the obs sta sr+ hen the i - ste pre acc at sta sk , den by cl ( i ) , is def as 123 min the nor pre err :
123 _ ii st ~ cte - skb ii
for a giv epi we def the n - ste acc cn ( i ) as the pro of the i - ste acc in the nex n ste .
the n - ste acc , whi mea the acc of the der ved slo n ste awa fro the end of the epi , pos thr des pro : a .
it is i if the lea dom the is per cor , b .
it dec mon as the len of the cha of inf inc , and c .
it is bou bel by o .
the n - ste acc is use to det the rat wit whi the ana and ind com
exp - bas neu net lea for rob con
are wei whe lea the tar con .
if an obs is n ste awa fro the end of the epi .
the ana der tra inf ( slo ) is wei by the n - ste acc tim the wei of the ind com ( val ) .
alt the exp res rep in sec 123 are pro .
the gen of thi app is an ope que .
due to the heu nat of the ass lob * .
123 ebn and rei lea
to mak ebn app to rob lea , we ext it her to a mor sop sch for lea the eva fun q .
nam wat ' q - lea ( wat , 123 ) com wit sut ' s tem dif met ( sut , 123 the rea for doi so is the pro 123 / sub act cho in rob lea : rob mus exp the env .
i . e . , the mus sel non - opt act .
suc non - opt act can hav a neg imp on the fin rew of an epi whi res in bot und tar val and mis slo est .
wat ' q - lea ( wat , 123 ) per non - opt act dur the cou of in his alg tar for q are con rec , bas on the max pos q - val at the nex sta : 123
q ( sk , ak ) =
if k is the fin ste and r fin rew
, m ~ q ( sk+ , a ) oth
her , ( o ~ , ~ i ) is a dis / act tha dis rew ove tim , whi is com use for min the num of act .
sut ' s td ( a ) ( sut , 123 ) can be use to com bot wat ' q - lea and the non - rec q - est sch und the pre sec .
her the par a ( 123 ~ a ~ 123 ) det the rat bet rec and non - rec com :
if k fin ste ( i - a ) , max a q ( sk+ , a ) + a , q ( sk+ , ak+ oth ( 123 eq .
( 123 ) des the ext ind com of the ebn lea alg .
the ext of the ana com in ebn is str .
slo are ext via the der of eq .
( 123 ) , whi is com via the der of bot the mod ! iii and the der of q .
if k las ste
123 exp res
ebn has bee eva in a sim rob nav dom .
the wor and the act spa are dep in fig .
the lea tas is to fin a q fun , for whi the gre pol nav the age to its goa loc ( cir ) fro arb sta loc , whi avo col wit the wal or the obs ( squ ) .
sta are
123 ord to sim the not .
we ass tha rew is onl rec at the end of the epi ,
and is als mod by the act mod .
the ext to mor gen cas is str .
mit and thr
fig 123 : a .
the sim rob wor .
act .
the squ gen err of the dom the net dec mon as the amo of tra dat inc .
the nin alt dom the wer use in the exp .
des by the loc vie of the age .
in ter of dis and ang to the cen of the goa and to the cen of the obs .
not tha the wor is det in the exp , and tha the is no sen noi .
we app wat ' q - lea and td ( ~ ) as des in the pre sec wit a=1 and a dis fac ;=1 .
eac of the fiv act was mod by a sep neu net ( 123 hid uni ) and eac had a sep q eva fun .
the lat fun wer rep by a ins - bas loc app tec .
in a nut , thi tec mem all tra ins and the slo exp , and fit a loc qua mod ove the ( =12 nea nei to the que poi , fit bot tar val and tar slo .
we fou emp tha thi tec out tan pro in the dom at han . 123 we als app an exp rep tec pro by lin ( lin , 123 in ord to opt exp the inf giv by the obs tra fig .
123 sho ave per cur for ebn usi nin dif dom the ( act mod ) tra to dif acc , wit ( fig .
123 ) and wit ( fig .
123 ) tak the n - ste acc of the slo int acc .
123 sho the mai res .
it sho cle tha ( 123 ) ebn out pur ind lea , ( 123 ) mor acc dom the yie bet per tha les acc the , and ( 123 ) ebn lea de ( cid : 123 ) gra gra as the acc of the dom the dec , eve mat the per of pur ind lea .
in the lim , as the siz of the tra dat set gro , we exp all met to con to the sam asy per .
exp - bas neu net lea .
com to pur ind lea , gen ( cid : 123 ) era mor acc fro les tra dat .
it rep the nee for lar tra dat set by rel ins on a pre lea dom the .
rep by neu net .
in thi pap , ebn has bee des and eva in ter of rob lea tas .
bec the lea act mod mi are ind of the par con tas ( rew fun ) , thi kno acq dur one tas tra dir to oth tas .
123 tha in a sec exp not rep her , we app ebn usi neu net
rep for q and tan pro suc in a rea rob dom .
exp - bas neu net lea for rob con
" . . . . .
fig 123 : how doe dom kno imp gen ? a .
ave res for ebn dom the of dif acc , pre - tra wit fro 123 to 123 123 tra exa for eac act mod net .
in con , the bol gre lin ref the lea cur for pur ind lea , i . e . , q - lea and td ( a ) .
sam exp , but wit wei the ana com of ebn by its acc , ill the imp of the wb* heu .
all cur are ave ove 123 run and are als loc win - ave .
the per ( ver axi ) is mea on an ind tes set of sta pos .
ebn dif fro oth app to kno - bas neu net lea , suc as sha / fow ' s kba ( sha and tow , 123 ) .
in tha the dom kno and the tar fun are str sep , and tha bot are lea fro scr .
a maj dif fro oth mod - bas app to rob lea , suc as sut ' s dyn arc ( sut , 123 ) or jor ! rum ' s dis tea met ( jor and rum , 123 ) , is the abi of ebn to ope acr the spe of str to wea dom the ( usi lob ) .
ebn has bee fou to deg gra as the acc of the dom the dec .
we hav dem the abi of ebn to tra kno amo rob lea tas .
how , the are sev ope que whi wil dri fut res , the mos sig of whi are : a .
can ebn be ext to rea - val , par
mit and thr
act spa ? so far we ass dis act .
can ebn be ext to han fir - ord pre log .
whi is com in sym app to ebl ? c .
how wil ebn per in hig sto dom ? d .
can kno oth tha slo ( suc as hig ord der ) be ext via exp ? e .
is it fea to aut par / mod the dom the as wel as the tar fun , as thi is the cas wit sym ebl met ? mor res on the iss is war .
we tha ryu mas , lon - ji lin .
the cmu rob lea gro .
jud sha , and mik jor for inv dis and sug .
thi res was spo in par by the avi lab , wri res and dev cen .
aer sys div ( aps ) .
air for .
wri - pat afb .
oh 123 - 123 und con f12 - 123 - c - 123 ord no .
123 and by a gra fro sie cor .
