abs .
ove the pas dec , fun mag res ima ( fmr ) has eme as a pow new ins to col vas qua of dat abo act in the hum bra .
a typ fmr exp can pro a thr - dim ima rel to the hum sub bra act eve hal sec , at a spa res of a few mil .
as in oth mod emp sci , thi new ins has led to a ood of new dat , and a cor nee for new dat ana met .
we des rec res app mac lea met to the pro of cla the cog sta of a hum sub bas on frm dat obs ove a sin tim int .
in par , we pre cas stu in whi we hav suc tra cla to dis cog sta suc as ( 123 ) whe the hum sub is loo at a pic or a sen , ( 123 ) whe the sub is rea an amb or non - amb sen , and ( 123 ) whe the wor the sub is vie is a wor des foo , peo , bui , etc .
thi lea pro pro an int cas stu of cla lea fro ext hig dim ( 123 fea ) , ext spa ( ten of tra exa ) , noi dat .
thi pap sum the res obt in the thr cas stu , as wel as les lea abo how to suc app mac lea met to tra cla in suc set .
sel , bay cla , sup vec mac , nea nei , bra ima ana
sci dat ana , fun mag res ima , hig dim dat , fea
the stu of hum bra fun has rec a tre boo in rec yea fro the adv of fun mag res ima ( fmr ) , a bra ima met tha dra imp our abi to obs cor of neu bra act in hum sub at hig spa res ( sev mil ) , acr the ent bra .
thi fmr tec off the pro of rev new app to stu hum cog pro , pro we can dev app dat ana met to mak sen of thi hug vol of dat .
a twe - min fmr ses wit a sin hum sub pro
mit et al .
a ser of thr dim bra ima eac con app 123 , 123 vox , col onc per sec , yie ten of mil of dat obs .
sin its adv , fmr has bee use to con hun of stu tha ide spe reg of the bra tha are act on ave whe a hum per a par cog fun ( e . g . , rea , men ima ) .
the vas maj of thi pub wor rep des sta of bra act , cal by ave tog fmr dat col ove mul tim int , in whi the sub res to rep sti of som typ ( e . g . , rea a var of wor ) .
in thi pap we con a dif goa : tra mac lea cla to au - tom dec the sub cog sta at a sin tim ins or int .
the goa her is to mak it pos to det tra cog sta , rat tha cha act ave ove man epi .
thi cap wou cle be use in tra the hid cog sta of a sub per a sin , spe tas .
suc cla lea app are als pot app to med dia pro whi are oft cas as cla pro , suc as dia alz dis .
whi the app we dis her are sti in the inf , and the mor tra app of rep des sta con to dom fmr res , thi alt dat ana app bas on mac lea has alr beg to gai acc wit the neu and med inf res com ( e . g . , str et al . , 123 cox & sav , 123 mit et al . , 123 ) .
thi pro dom is als qui int fro the per of mac lea , bec it pro a cas stu of cla lea fro ext hig dim , spa , and noi dat .
in our cas stu we enc pro whe the exa are des by 123 , 123 fea , and whe we hav les tha a doz , ver noi , tra exa per cla .
alt con wis mig sug cla lea wou be imp in suc ext set , in fac we hav fou it is pos in thi pro dom , by des of app fea sel , fea abs and cla tra met tun to the pro cha .
in thi pap we rst pro a bri int to fmr , the des sev fmr dat set we hav ana , the mac lea app we exp , and les lea abo how bes to app mac lea app to the pro of cla cog sta bas on sin int fmr dat .
fun mag res ima
fun mag res ima ( fmr ) is a tec for obt thr - dim ima rel to neu act in the bra thr tim .
mor pre , fmr mea the rat of oxy hem to deo hem in the blo wit res to a con bas , at man ind loc wit the bra .
it is wid bel tha blo oxy lev is inu by loc neu act , and hen thi blo oxy lev dep ( bol ) res is gen tak as an ind of
an fmr sca mea the val of the fmr sig ( bol res ) at all the poi in a thr dim gri , or ima .
in the stu des in thi pap , a thr
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
dim ima is cap eve 123 , 123 , or 123 sec .
we ref to the cel wit thi thr - dim ima as vox ( vol ele ) .
the vox in a typ fmr stu hav a vol of a few ten of cub mil , and a typ thr dim bra ima typ con 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 vox whi con cor mat and are thu of int .
whi the spa res of fmr is dra bet tha tha pro by ear bra ima met , eac vox nev con on the ord of hun of tho of neu .
the tem res of the fmr bol sig is sme ove sev sec .
giv an imp of neu act , suc as the act in vis cor in res to a ash of lig , the fmr bol res ass wit thi imp of neu act end for man sec .
it typ inc to a max aft app fou to ve sec , ret to bas lev aft ano ve to sev sec .
des thi pro tem res , som res ( e . g . , men et al . , 123 ) hav rep tha the rel tim of eve can be res to wit a few ten of mil ( e . g .
to dis the rel tim of two ash of lig in the lef eye and one in the rig eye ) , pro hop tha at lea som tem cha of bra fun can be stu at sub res usi fmr .
a sma por of fmr dat is ill in gur 123
thi gur sho dat col ove a fte sec int dur whi the sub rea a wor , dec whe it was a nou or ver ( in thi cas , it was a ver ) , the wai for ano wor .
thi dat was sam onc per sec for fte sec , ove six pla sli , one of whi is sho in the gur .
rel wor ana fmr dat
ove rec yea the has bee a gro int wit the com sci com in dat pro for fmr .
one pop sty of pro inv usi gen lin mod ( glm ) as in fri et al .
( 123 , 123 ) and bly ( 123 ) .
her a reg is per for eac vox , to pre the sig val at tha vox , bas on pro of the sti .
the deg to whi vox act can be pre fro sti fea is tak as an ind of the deg to whi the vox act is rel to the sti .
not thi reg pro ( pre vox act giv the sti ) is rou the inv of the pro we con her ( pre cog sta giv all vox act ) .
oth hav use t - sta to det rel act vox , and yet oth hav use mor com sta met to est par of the bol res in the pre of noi ( gen , 123 ) .
var met for mod tim ser hav bee use for ana fmr dat .
for exa , hoj - sor , han , and ras ( 123 ) use hid mar mod ( hmm ) to lea a mod of act in the vis cor res fro a ash lig sti .
alt the pro was not tol the sti , the on - off sti was rec as the hid sta by the hmm .
a var of uns lea met hav als bee use for exp ana of fmr dat .
for exa , gou et al .
( 123 ) dis the use of clu met for fmr dat .
one par app ( pen , 123 ) inv the app of exp
mit et al .
fig 123
typ fmr dat .
the top por of the gur sho fmr dat for a sel set of vox in the cor , fro a two - dim ima pla thr the bra .
a fte sec int of fmr dat is plo at eac vox loc .
the ant por of the bra is at the top of the gur , pos at bot .
the lef sid of the bra is sho on the rig , acc to sta rad con .
the ful thr - dim bra ima con of six suc ima pla .
the bot por of the gur sho one of the plo in gre det .
dur thi int the sub was pre a wor , ans whe the wor was a nou or ver , the wai for ano wor .
max to est mix mod to clu the dat .
oth hav use pri com ana and ind com ana ( mck et al . , 123 ) to det spa - tem fac tha can be lin com to rec the fmr
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
whi the has bee lit wor on our spe pro of tra cla to dec cog sta , the are sev pap des wor wit clo rel goa .
for exa , hax et al .
( 123 ) sho tha dif pat of fmr act are gen whe a hum sub vie a pho of a fac ver a hou , ver a sho , ver a cha .
whi the did not spe use the dis pat to cla sub sin - eve dat , the did rep tha by div the fmr dat for eac pho cat int two sam , the cou aut mat the sam mea rel to the sam cat .
mor rec ( cox & sav , 123 ) app sup vec mac and lin dis ana to a sim set of dat to suc cla pat of fmr act evo by the pre of pho of var cat of obj .
oth ( wag et al . , 123 ) rep tha the hav bee abl to mak bet - tha - ran pre reg whe a vis pre wor wil be rem lat , bas on the mag of act wit cer par of lef pre and tem cor dur tha pre .
in add to wor on fmr , the has bee rel rec wor app mac lea met to dat fro oth dev mea bra act .
for exa , bla , cur , and mll ( 123 ) des exp tra cla of bra sta for sin tri eeg dat , whi ( kje et al . , 123 str et al . , 123 ) rep tra bra sta cla for ima obt via pos emi tom ( pet ) .
the wor rep in the cur pap bui on our ear res des in mit
( 123 ) and wan , hut , and mit ( 123 ) .
thi sec bri des our app to dat pre , tra cla , and
dat acq and pre
in the fmr stu con her , dat wer col fro nor stu fro the uni com .
typ stu inv bet ve and fte sub , and we gen sel a sub of the sub wit the str , lea noi fmr sig to tra our cla .
dat wer pre to rem art due to hea mot , sig dri , and oth sou , usi the fia pro ( edd et al . , 123 ) . 123 all vox act val wer rep by the per dif fro the mea val dur res con ( whe the sub is ask to rel , and not per any par tas ) .
the pre ima wer use as inp to our cla .
in sev cas , we fou it use to ide spe ana den reg of int ( roi ) wit the bra of eac sub .
to ach thi , two typ of bra ima wer col for eac sub .
the rst typ of ima , whi has bee dis up to thi poi in the pap , cap bra act via the bol res , and is ref to as a fun ima .
the sec typ of ima , cal a str ima , cap the sta phy bra str at hig res .
for eac sub , thi str ima was use to ide the ana reg of int , usi the par sch of
mit et al .
cav et al .
( 123 ) and rad et al .
( 123 ) .
for eac sub , the mea of the fun ima was the co - reg to the str ima , so tha ind vox in the fun ima cou be ass wit the roi ide in the str ima .
lea met
in thi pap we exp the use of mac lea met to app cla fun of the fol for
f : fmr - seq ( t12 , t12 ) cog
whe fmr - seq ( t12 , t12 ) is the seq of fmr ima col dur the con - tig tim int ( t12 , t12 ) , and whe cog is the set of cog sta to be dis .
eac of our dat set inc fmr dat fro mul hum sub .
exc whe oth not , we tra a sep cla fun for eac sub .
we exp a var of met for enc fmr - seq ( t12 , t12 ) as inp to the cla .
in som cas we enc the inp as a vec of ind vox act , a dif act for eac vox and for eac ima cap dur the int ( t12 , t12 ) .
thi can be an ext hig dim fea vec , con of hun of tho of fea giv tha a typ ima con 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 vox , and a tra exa can inc doz of ima .
the , we exp a var of app to red the dim of thi fea vec , inc met for fea sel , as wel as met tha rep mul fea val by the mea .
the fea sel and fea abs met are des in det in sec 123 .
we exp a num of cla tra met , inc :
gau nai bay ( gnb ) .
the gnb cla use the tra dat to est the pro dis ove fmr obs , con on the sub cog sta .
it the cla a new exa ( cid : 123 ) x = ( cid : 123 ) x12 .
xn ( cid : 123 ) by est the pro p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) of cog sta ci giv fmr obs ( cid : 123 ) x .
it est thi p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) usi bay rul , alo wit the ass tha the fea x j are con ind giv the cla :
p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) =
p ( x j | ci ) p ( x j | ck )
whe p den dis est by the gnb fro the tra dat .
eac dis - tri of the for p ( x j | ci ) is mod as a uni gau , usi max lik est of the mea and var der fro the tra dat .
dis - but of the for p ( ci ) are mod as ber , aga usi max lik est bas on tra dat .
giv a new exa to be cla , the gnb out pos pro for eac cog sta , cal usi the abo for .
p ( x j | ci ) .
we con two var of the gnb , whi dif onl in the app to
the uni gau dis
est the var of
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
gnb - sha , it is ass tha the var of vox x j is ide for all cla ci .
thi sin var is est by the sam var of the poo dat for x j tak fro all cla ( wit the cla mea sub out of eac val ) .
in gnb - dis , the var is est sep for eac vox and cla .
sup vec mac ( svm ) .
we use a lin ker sup vec mac ( see ,
for ins , bur ( 123 ) ) .
k nea nei ( knn ) .
we use k nea nei wit a euc dis met ,
con val of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 for k ( see , for ins , mit ( 123 ) ) .
eva res
tra cla wer eva by the cro - val cla err whe lea boo - val cla fun .
whe mor tha two cla are inv , our cla out a ran - ord lis of the pot cla fro mos to lea lik .
in thi cas , we sco the suc of eac pre by the nor ran of the cor cla in thi sor lis , whi we ref to as the nor ran err .
thu , the nor ran err ran fro 123 whe the cor cla is ran mos lik , to 123 whe it is ran lea lik .
not thi nor ran err is a nat ext of cla err whe mul cla are inv , and is ide to cla err whe exa two cla are inv .
not als tha ran gue yie an exp nor ran err of 123 reg of the num of cla und con .
to eva cla , we gen emp k - fol cro - val , lea out one exa per cla on eac fol .
in the dat set con in thi pap , the com cla are bal ( i . e . , the num of ava exa is the sam for eac com cla ) .
thu , by lea out one exa per cla we ret a bal tra set for eac fol , whi cor ree the cla pri .
bec the fmr bol res is blu out ove sev sec , a str lea - out - one - exa - per - cla eva can som pro opt est of the tru cla err .
the rea is str : whe hol out a tes ima occ at tim t , the tra ima at tim t + 123 and t 123 wil be hig cor wit thi tes ima .
the , if the ima at t 123 and t + 123 bel to the sam cla as the ima at t , and are inc in the tra set , thi can lea to opt bia err est for the hel out exa .
whe fac wit thi sit ( i . e . , in the sem cat stu des bel ) , we avo the opt bia by rem fro the tra set all ima tha occ wit 123 sec of the hel out tes ima .
in thi cas , our cro val pro inv hol out one tes exa per cla , and als rem tem pro ima fro the tra set .
cas stu
thi sec des thr dis fmr stu , the dat col in eac , and the cla - ers tra for eac .
in thi sec we sum the suc of the bes cla obt for eac of the stu .
sec 123 dis mor gen the les lea acr the thr cas stu .
mit et al .
pic ver sen stu
in thi fmr stu ( kel , jus , & ste , 123 ) , sub exp a col of tri .
dur eac tri the wer sho in seq a sen and a sim pic , the ans whe the sen cor des the pic .
we use thi dat to exp the fea of tra cla to dis whe the sub is exa a sen or a pic dur a par tim int .
in hal of the tri the pic was pre rst , fol by the sen .
in the rem tri , the sen was pre rst , fol by the pic .
in eit cas , the rst sti ( sen or pic ) was pre for 123 sec , fol by a bla scr for 123 sec .
the sec sti was the pre for up to 123 sec , end whe the sub pre the mou but to ind whe the sen cor des the pic .
fin , a res per of 123 sec was ins bef the nex tri beg .
thu , eac tri las app 123 sec .
pic wer geo arr of the sym + , and / or $ , suc as
sen wer des suc as it is tru tha the plu is bel the dol .
hal of the sen wer neg ( e . g . , it is not tru tha the sta is abo the plu . ) and the oth hal wer afr sen .
eac sub was pre a tot of 123 tri as des abo , int wit ten add res per .
dur eac of the res per , the sub was ask to rel whi sta at a xed poi on the scr .
fmr ima wer col eve 123 mse .
the lea tas we con for thi stu is to tra a cla to det , giv a par 123 - sec int of fmr dat , whe the sub is vie a sen or a pic dur thi int .
in oth wor , we wis to lea a sep cla for eac sub , of the fol for
f : fmr - seq ( t12 , t12 + 123 ) ( pic , sen )
whe t12 is the tim of sti ( pic or sen ) ons .
thu , the inp to the cla is an 123 - sec int of fmr dat beg whe the pic or sen is rst pre to the sub .
alt the sti was pre for a max dur of onl 123 sec , we cho thi 123 - sec int in ord to cap the ful fmr act ass wit the sti ( rec fro sec 123 tha the fmr bol sig oft ext for 123 sec bey the neu act of int ) . 123
the wer a tot of 123 exa ava fro eac sub ( 123 exa per cla ) .
the fmr - seq was its des by the act of all vox in cor .
the ave num of cor vox per sub was app 123 , 123 , and var sig by sub , bas in lar par on the siz of the sub hea .
not tha the eig sec int con by the cla con 123 ima ( ima wer cap twi per sec ) , yie an inp fea vec con app 123 , 123 fea , bef
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
the exp cla err of the def cla ( gue the mos com cla ) is 123 in thi cas .
the ave err obt for the mos suc tra cla , usi the mos suc fea sel str , was 123 , ave ove 123 sub , wit the bes sub rea 123 ( ref to sec 123 for mor det ) .
the res are sta hig sig , and ind tha it is ind pos to tra cla to dis the two cog sta rel .
in add to the sin - sub cla , we als exp wit tra cla - ers tha ope acr mul sub .
in thi cas , we eva the cla err usi a lea - one - sub - out reg in whi we hel out eac of the 123 sub in tur whi tra on the oth 123
the mea err ove the hel out sub for the mos suc - ces com of fea sel and cla was 123 .
aga , thi is sig bet tha the exp 123 err fro the def cla , ind tha it is pos to tra cla for thi tas tha ope on hum sub who whe not par of the tra set .
the res are des in det in sec 123 .
syn amb stu
in thi fmr stu ( see mas et al . , 123 ) sub wer pre wit sen , som of whi wer amb , and wer ask to res to a yes - no que abo the con of eac sen .
the que wer des to ens tha the sub was in fac pro the sen .
the lea tas for thi stu was to dis whe the sub was cur rea an amb sen ( e . g . , the exp sol war abo the dan con the mid rai .
) or an una sen ( e . g . , the exp sol spo abo the dan bef the mid rai . ) . 123
ten sen of eac of typ wer pre to eac sub .
eac sen was pre for 123 sec .
nex a que was pre , and the sub was giv 123 sec to ans .
aft the sub ans the que , or 123 sec ela , an x app on the scr for a 123 sec res per .
the sca col one fmr ima eve 123 sec .
we are int her in lea a cla tha tak as inp an int of fmr act , and det whi of the two typ of sen the sub is rea .
usi our ear not , for eac sub we tra cla of the for
f : fmr - seq ( t12 + 123 , t12 + 123 ) sen
whe sen = ( amb , una ) , and whe t12 is the tim at whi the sen is rst pre to the sub .
not the cla inp des fmr act dur the int fro 123 to 123 sec fol ini pre of the sen .
thi is the int dur whi the fmr act is mos int .
the wer a tot of 123 exa for eac sub ( 123 exa per cla ) .
the fmr - seq was des usi onl the vox fro fou roi con to be mos rel by a dom exp .
the 123 roi con a tot of 123 to 123 vox , dep on the sub .
not the 123 sec int con by the cla con 123 ima ( ima wer cap eve 123 sec ) , yie a cla inp vec con fro 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 fea , dep on the hum sub , bef fea sel .
mit et al .
the exp cla err of the def cla ( gue the mos com cla ) in thi cas is 123 , giv the equ num of exa fro bot cla .
the ave err obt by the mos suc com of fea sel and cla was 123 , ave ove 123 sub , wit the bes sin - sub cla rea an err of 123 ( ref to sec 123 for mor det ) .
sem cat stu
in thi stu , 123 sub wer pre wit ind nou bel to twe dis sem cat ( e . g . , fru , too ) , and ask to det whe the wor bel to a par cat .
we use thi dat to exp the fea of tra cla to det whi of the sem cat of wor the sub was exa .
the tri in thi stu wer div int twe blo .
in eac blo , the nam of a sem cat was rst dis for 123 sec .
fol thi , the sub was sho a suc of 123 wor , eac pre for 123 mse and fol by 123 mse of bla scr .
aft eac wor was pre , the sub cli a mou but to ind whe the wor bel to the sem cat nam at the beg of the blo .
in fac , nea all wor bel to the nam cat ( hal the blo con no out - of - cat wor , and the rem blo con jus one out - of - cat wor ) .
a mul - sec bla scr res per was ins bet eac of the twe blo .
the twe sem cat of wor pre wer sh , fou - leg ani , tre , owe , fru , veg , fam mem , occ , too , kit ite , dwe , and bui par .
wor wer cho fro lis of hig fre wor of eac cat , as giv in bat and mon ( 123 ) , in ord to avo obs or mul - mea wor .
fmr ima wer acq onc per sec .
the lea tas we con for thi stu is to dis whi of the twe sem cat the sub is con , bas on a sin obs fmr ima .
fol our ear not , we wis to lea a cla of the for :
f : fmr ( t ) wor
whe fmr ( t ) is a sin fmr ima , and whe wor is the set of 123 sem cat des abo .
a tot of 123 exa ima wer col for eac sub ( 123 exa per cla , tim 123 cla ) .
all vox fro 123 roi wer use , yie a tot of 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 vox , dep on the sub .
in thi cas the cla inp is a sin ima , so the cla inp dim is equ to the num of vox , pri to fea sel .
the tra cla out a ran - ord lis of the 123 cat , ran fro mos to lea pro .
we the eva cla err usi the nor ran err des in sec 123 , whe the def cla ( gue the mos fre cla ) yie an exp nor ran err of 123 .
the nor ran err for the mos suc com of fea sel and cla was 123 ( i . e .
on ave the cor wor cat was ran rst or sec out of the twe cat ) , ove 123 sub , wit the bes sub rea 123 .
( ref to sec 123 for det ) .
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
fig 123
col plo sho loc of vox tha bes pre the wor sem cat , for thr dif hum sub .
for eac vox , the col ind the nor ran err ove the tes set , for a gnb cla bas on thi sin vox .
not the spa clu of hig pre vox , and the sim reg of pre acr the thr sub .
the ran of nor ran err is ( red 123 , dar blu 123 ) , wit oth col int bet the two ext .
eac ima cor to a sin two - dim pla thr the bra of one sub .
one rea que tha can be rai reg the cla res is whe the cla is ind lea the pat of bra act pre of sem cat , or whe it is ins lea pat rel to som oth tim - var phe tha inu fmr act .
one unf pro of the exp pro for col dat , fro thi poi of vie , is tha all of the wor bel to a sin cat are pre wit a sin tim int ( i . e . , a sin exp blo ) .
in fac we do bel thi tem adj may be inu our res , but we als be - lie the cla is ind cap reg pri rel to sem cat .
one str pie of sup evi is tha cla tra for dif hum sub - jec ten to rel on the sam bra loc to mak the pre , and tha the reg hav bee rep by oth as rel to sem cat .
fig 123 il - lus the bra reg con the mos inf fmr sig for cla , acr thr sub .
in thi gur , red and yel ind the vox who act all mos acc cla .
not the hig dis vox are clu tog , in sim reg acr the sub .
the loc for dis mat tho rep in ear wor on sem cat by cha , hax , and mar ( 123 ) , cha , wei , and mar ( 123 ) , ish et al .
( 123 ) and agu , zar , and des ( 123 ) , as wel as som nov are tha are cur und inv .
les lea
can one lea to dec men sta fro fmr ?
the pri goa lea to thi res was to det whe it is fea to use mac lea met to dec men sta fro sin int fmr dat .
the suc res rep abo for all thr dat set ind tha thi is ind fea in
mit et al .
a var of int cas .
how , it is imp to not tha whi our emp res dem the abi to suc dis amo a pre set of sta occ at spe tim whi the sub per spe tas , the do not yet dem tha tra cla can rel det cog sta occ at arb tim whi the sub per arb tas .
whi our cur res may alr be of use in cog sci res , we int to pur thi mor gen goa in fut wor .
we als att but fai to tra suc cla for sev oth cla fun den ove the sam dat set .
for exa , we wer una to tra an acc cla to dis the pro of neg ver afr sen in the pic ver sen stu .
we wer als uns in att to tra cla to dis the pro of tru ver fal sen , or sen whi the sub ans cor ver inc .
it may be tha the fai cou be rev giv lar tra set or mor eff lea alg .
alt , it may be the cas tha the fmr dat sim lac the inf nee to mak the dis .
thi lin of res is sti ver new , and whi the abo res dem the fea of dis a var of cog sta bas on fmr , at thi poi the que of exa whi cog sta can be rel dis rem an ope emp que .
giv our ini suc plu tho rep in cox and sav ( 123 ) , as wel as lik adv in bra ima tec and lik pro in dev mac lea met spe for thi typ of app , we are opt tha ove tim we wil be abl to dec an inc use col of cog sta in an inc ope end set of exp set .
int , we fou tha the acc of our sin - sub cla var sig - ica amo sub , eve wit the sam stu .
for exa , whe tra an svm for the 123 dif sub in the pic ver sen stu , the err rat of the 123 sin - sub cla wer 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 ( add sin - sub dat is rep in tab 123 ) .
sub pro hig acc wit one cla wer typ the sam who pro hig acc for oth cla , and it is lik tha the dat for the wor - per cla wer cor by var kin of noi ( e . g . , sig hea mot dur ima ) .
con - era sub - to - sub var in fmr res has bee wid rep in the fmr
bef lea the top of whe one can tra cla in thi dom , it is wor con the que of whe our rep bet - tha - ran cla err rat are sim the res of hav tri man lea alg and fea sel met , the rep res for the app tha wor bes .
thi is a gen iss whe one exp wit man lea app , the rep acc for the one tha per bes ove the tes dat .
in the fol sub we des in det the dif fea sel met and lea met we exp .
for the pur of thi dis , how , the are two imp poi to be mad .
fir , we fou tha eve lea alg ( gnb , svm , and knn ) pro sig bet tha ran cla acc for eve cas stu , sup our con tha it is fea to lea cla in thi dom .
sec , whe per fea sel , fea wer cho ove a tra set dis fro the tes dat , usi a lea - one - out
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
cro val app , so tha eac tes exa had no inu on whi fea wer sel .
the onl way tha the tes dat inu fea sel was in cho the num of fea , n , for whi res are rep .
thi sin par n was cho for eac lea alg and stu , to max the mea acc ove all sin - sub cla tra by tha alg for tha stu .
giv tha the num of sin - sub cla ran fro ve to thi , dep on the stu , we con tha the cho of thi sin par n wou exe onl a ver min inu and tha we cou saf con our rep acc to be ver clo to tru acc .
to tes thi con we con an exp to com thi bia est ( usi the val of n whi max tes set per ) to an unb est obt usi a mor ela and com int app .
to obt the ful unb est , we emp a nes cro val app to par the dat rep int thr set : a tra set , opt set , and nal tes set .
the tra and opt set wer use to tra a gnb cla , to cho the fea sel met , and to cho the num n of fea to be inc .
the nal tes set had no inu on tra or sel wha to rep , and was use onl to pro a nal unb est of acc .
we ran thi exp ove the dat fro all 123 sub in our sen ver pic dat set .
the res unb err est pro by the nal tes set was 123 , whe the ori bia est pro by our sta two - set app was 123 .
fur , the num of fea n sel by the two app wer nea ide .
thi exp out sup our con tha our rep cla acc , whi in the sli bia , are in fac ver clo to the tru acc .
whi cla wor bes ?
as dis ear , we exp wit thr cla lea met : a gau nai bay ( gnb ) cla , k - nea nei ( knn ) , and lin sup vec ma - chi ( svm ) .
the cla wer sel bec the hav bee use suc in oth app inv hig dim dat .
for exa , nai bay cla - ers , knn , and svm hav all bee use for tex cla pro ( nig et al . , 123 joa , 123 yan , 123 ) , whe the dim of the dat is app 123 , cor to the siz of the nat lan voc .
to tes the rel per of our cla , we per two set of exp .
fir , for eac fmr stu we ana the per of gnb , lin svm , and knn ( wit k ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) usi as inp to the cla all vox in the roi sel for tho stu .
her the per met is cla err , exc for the sem cat stu whe the met is nor ran err .
the per rep for a spe stu is the mea err ove all sin - sub cla tra for tha stu , as obt by lea - one - exa - out - fro - eac - cla cro val .
bec the sem cat stu is not a bin cla tas , we did not exp wit svm on thi spe stu .
the res are sho in tab 123 in the row ind no fea sel .
the tab rep res for the bet - per var of gnb in eac stu .
in the syn
mit et al .
tab 123
err rat for cla acr all stu .
eac tab ent ind the mea tes err ave ove all sin - sub cla tra for a par fmr stu and lea met .
the row wit fea sel no sho res whe usi all vox wit the ava roi .
the row wit fea sel yes sho res of the fea sel met tha pro the low err .
in eve cas exc one , thi was the act fea sel met des in sec 123 . 123
the exc is the ent mar wit the * , for whi roi fea sel wor bes .
the var of gnb whi pro the str res ( and whi is the rep in thi tab ) is gnb - sha for the syn amb stu , and gnb - dis for the oth two stu .
amb stu thi was gnb - sha , and in the oth two stu it was gnb -
as can be see in the tab , the gnb and svm cla out knn .
exa the per of knn , one can als see a tre tha per gen imp wit inc val of k .
our sec set of exp exa the per of the cla whe use in con wit fea sel .
the spe fea sel met we con are des in det in the nex sub .
for eac stu and lea met the tab rep res usi the mos suc fea sel met , in the tab row ind fea sel yes .
in all cas exc one ( the tab ent mar by the * ) , the mos suc fea sel met was the act met des in sec 123 . 123
as can be see in tab 123 , per fea sel pro a lar and con imp in cla err acr all stu and lea met .
as in the exp - ime wit no fea sel , gnb and svm out knn whe fea sel is use , and the per of knn imp as k inc .
ana .
one cle tre in thi dat is tha knn far les wel tha gnb or svm acr all stu and con .
in ret , thi is not too sur giv the hig dim , spa tra dat set .
it is wel kno tha the knn cla is sen to irr fea , as the fea add in irr way to the dis bet tra and tes exa ( mit , 123 ) .
thi exp for the poo per of knn is als con wit the dra imp in knn per res fro fea sel .
as the tab res ind , fea sel som red knn err by a fac of two or mor , pre by rem man of the irr , mis
as dis in sec 123 , the two var of gnb we con dif onl in the num of dis par est whe mod var in the cla con
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
dis of vox act .
gnb - sha est a sin var ind - den of the cla , whe gnb - dis est a dis var per cla .
we fou tha gnb - sha per bet in the stu con the few exa - ple per cla ( syn amb ) , whe gnb - dis per bet in the oth stu .
thi emp res is con wit a gen bia - var tra : poo dat in ord to est few par gen lea to low var est - mat , but to hig bia .
thu , in gen as the num of ava exa inc , we exp gnb - dis to out gnb - sha , all oth thi bei
not tha the svm out gnb in the pic vs .
sen stu for whi the wer 123 exa per cla , but not in the sem cat stu for whi the wer onl 123 exa per cla .
whi thi may be due to var fac , it is int - ing to obs tha thi tre is con wit rec res of ng and jor ( 123 ) , in whi the pro emp and the arg tha gnb oft out log reg whe dat is sca , but not whe dat bec mor ple .
the exp thi by poi out tha alt log reg asy ( in the num - ber of tra exa ) out gnb , log reg req o ( n ) exa to rea its asy whi gnb req onl o ( log n ) , whe n is the num of fea - tur .
in our cas we not tha svm , lik log reg , req o ( n ) exa , in com to the o ( log ) req by gnb .
whi our emp res are too spa to pro a sta sig tre for the rel per of svm and gnb , it is nev int to not our res are con wit the ana of ng and jor
in sum , we fou whe tra fmr cla acr a var of dat set and tar fun tha gnb and svm out knn qui con .
fur , fea sel has a lar and con ben imp acr all stu and lea
whi fea sel met wor bes ?
giv tha our cla pro inv ver hig dim , noi , spa tra dat , it is nat to con fea sel met to red the dim of the dat bef tra the cla .
as we dis in the pre sec , and as sum - riz in tab 123 , fea sel lea to lar and sta sig imp in cla err acr all thr of our cas stu .
thi sec dis in det the fea sel met exp in our wor , and som sur les lea reg whi fea sel met wor bes .
app .
wit the eld of mac lea , the mos com app to fea sel whe tra cla is to sel tho fea tha bes dis the tar cla .
for exa , giv the goa of lea a tar cla fun f : x y , one com app to fea sel is to ran ord the fea of x by the mut inf wit res to the cla var y , the to gre sel the n hig sco fea .
mit et al .
giv the nat of cla pro in the fmr dom ( and a var of oth dom as wel ) , a sec gen app to fea sel is als pos .
to ill , con the pro of lea a boo cla f : x y whe y = ( 123 , 123 ) , giv tra exa lab as bel to eit cla 123 or cla 123 ( e . g . , lea to dis whe the sub is vie a pic or sen ) .
in fmr stu , we nat obt thr cla of dat rat tha two .
in add to dat rep cla 123 and cla 123 , we als obt dat cor to a thi xat or res con .
thi xat con con dat obs dur the tim int bet tri , dur whi the sub is gen at res ( e . g . , the are exa nei a pic nor a sen , but are ins sta at a xat poi ) .
thu , we can vie the dat ass wit cla 123 and cla 123 as con som sig con on the cla var y , whe the dat ass wit xat con no suc sig , and ins con onl bac noi rel to our cla pro .
in thi set , we can con a sec gen app to fea sel : sco eac fea by how wel it dis the cla 123 or cla 123 dat fro thi zer sig dat .
in the ter of fmr , we sco eac fea bas on how act it is dur the cla 123 or cla 123 int , rel to the xat int .
the int beh thi fea sel met is tha it emp cho vox wit lar sig - to - noi rat , tho it ign whe the fea act dis the tar cla .
we ref to thi gen set as the zer sig lea set , sum in gur 123
not man cla pro inv sen dat can be mod in
fig 123
the zer sig lea set .
boo cla pro in the fmr dom nat giv ris to thr typ of dat : dat cor to the two tar cla plu dat col whe the sub is in the xat or res con .
we ass the dat fro cla 123 and cla 123 are com of som und sig plu noi , whe dat fro the xat con con no rel sig but onl noi .
in suc set , fea sel met can con bot vox dis ( how wel the fea dis cla 123 fro cla 123 ) , and vox act ( how wel the fea dis cla 123 or cla 123 fro the zer sig
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
ter of thi zer sig lea set ( e . g . , cla whi of two peo is spe bas on voi dat , whe the zer sig con cor to bac noi whe nei per is spe ) .
the , und how to per fea sel and cla wit thi set has rel bey the dom of fmr .
in fac , wit the fmr lit it is com to use act to sel a sub of rel vox , and the to com the beh of thi sel sub ove var con .
in the exp sum bel , we con fea sel met tha sel vox bas on bot the abi to dis the tar cla fro one ano ( whi we cal dis ) , and on the abi to dis the tar cla fro the xat con ( whi we cal act ) .
alt eac fea con of the val of a sin vox at a sin tim , we gro the fea inv the sam vox tog for the pur of fea sel , and thu foc on sel a sub of vox .
in gre det , the fea sel ( vox sel ) met we con her are :
sel the n mos dis vox ( dis ) .
in thi met , a sep cla is tra for eac vox , usi onl the obs fmr dat ass wit tha vox .
the acc of thi sin - vox cla ove the tra dat is tak as a mea of the dis pow of the vox , and the n vox tha sco hig acc to thi mea are sel .
not whe rep cro val err on nal cla usi thi fea sel met , fea are sel sep for eac cro - val fol in ord to avo usi dat fro the tes fol dur the fea sel pro .
thu , the vox sel may var fro fol to fol .
sel the n mos act vox ( act ) .
in thi met , vox are sel bas on the abi to dis eit tar cla fro the xat con .
mor spe , for eac vox , v , and eac tar cla yi , a t - tes is app to com the vox fmr act in exa bel to cla yi to its act in exa bel to xat per .
the rst vox are the sel by cho for eac tar cla yi the vox wit the gre t sta .
the nex vox are sel by pic the sec mos act vox for eac cla , and so on , unt n vox are cho .
not the sel vox may dis jus one tar cla fro xat , or may dis bot tar cla fro xat .
sel the n mos act vox per reg of int ( roi ) .
thi is sim to the act met abo , but ens tha vox are sel uni fro all reg of int ( roi ) wit the bra .
mor pre , giv m pre roi , thi met app the act met to eac roi , sel n / m vox fro eac .
the uni of the vox set is ret as the set of n sel vox .
the app abo for sel vox can be com wit met for ave the val of mul fea ( in spa or tim ) , and wit met tha sel dat ove a sub - int in tim .
we exp wit var com of suc app , and rep her on the abo thr met ( dis , act , roi ) as wel as a fou met der fro roi :
cal the mea of act vox per roi ( roi ) .
thi met rst sel n / m vox for eac of the m roi usi the roi met .
it the cre a sin
mit et al .
sup for eac roi , who act at tim t is the mea act of the sel roi vox at tim t .
res .
we exp wit eac of the fou fea sel met , ove eac of the thr cas stu dat set .
for com pur we als con usi all ava fea ( den all in our res tab ) .
tab 123 pre sum res of fea sel exp for eac of the thr fmr stu .
eac tab sho the bes err obt for eac fea sel
tab 123
pic vs .
sen stu cla err by sub and fea sel met .
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
the rst col ind the fea sel met , alo wit the num of fea sel ( all ind usi all ava fea , whi var by sub ) .
the sec col ind the ave err ove all 123 sin - sub cla whe usi the fea sel met .
rem col ind err for ind sub a thr m .
for eac met , the num of fea was cho to min the ave err ove all sub .
tab 123
syn amb stu cla err by sub and fea sel met .
ave err a
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
res are pre usi the sam for as tab 123
tab 123
sem cat err by sub and fea sel met .
fea sel ave err
res are pre usi the sam for as tab 123
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
met and for eac sub con in the stu , whe usi a gnb cla .
her the bes err ref to the low err ach by var the num of sel vox .
the opt num of vox sel var by stu and fea sel met , typ ran fro 123 to 123 of the tot num ava wit the sel roi , hen we foc exp wit thi ran .
for eac fea sel met and stu , the num of fea was cho to min the mea err of all sin - sub cla tra for thi stu .
thi num is sho in par nex to the fea sel met in the tab .
the spe num of fea con wer 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 for the pic ver sen stu , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 for the sem cat stu , and 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 for the syn amb stu .
the res ind tha usi fea sel lea to imp cla err in all thr stu , and tha all of our fea sel met imp ove no fea sel in the vas maj of cas .
for exa , the act fea sel met out the app of usi all fea in 123 of the 123 sin - sub cla tra ove the thr stu , and yie equ per in the rem 123 cas .
a sec str tre in the res is the dom of fea sel met bas on act ( act , roi , roi ) ove tho bas on dis ( dis ) .
as can be see in the tab , eve act - bas fea sel met out the dis - bas met , on eve cas stu .
of the act - bas met , the act met yie bes acc , and it out the dis met in 123 of the 123 sin - sub cla tra acr the thr stu , yie inf per in onl 123 of the 123 cas .
not als tha the act met sel sub few fea tha dis in all thr fmr stu .
it is at rst sur to obs tha sel fea bas on the act lev wor dra bet tha sel the bas on the abi to dis - cri the tar cla .
giv tha the end goa is to dis the tar cla , and tha sel fea bas on dis is the nor in mac lea app - tio , one mig wel exp dis to hav bee the dom met .
bel we loo dee int why we obs the opp res in all thr fmr stu .
one sit in whi we mig exp act - bas fea sel to out dis - bas met is whe dat dim is ver hig , noi lev are hig , tra dat are spa , and ver few vox con a sig rel to the tar cla .
in suc cas , we sho exp to nd tha som vox tha are tru irr app non to be goo dis ove the spa sam of tra dat whe usi cro val to tes the dis pow .
the lar the set of suc irr vox , the mor lik tha a fea sel str foc on dis wou sel suc ove vox , and be una to dis the fro tru inf dis vox .
how , in thi sam cas we mig exp tha cho vox wit hig sig - to - noi rat wou be a use str , as it wou rem fro con the lar num of irr vox ( i . e . , tho wit no sig , but onl noi ) .
in fac , our act - bas fea sel str sel exa thi kin of hig sig - to - noi rat vox .
the bot lin is tha eac fea sel str run its own ris :
mit et al .
dis - bas met run the ris of sel vox tha onl coi t the noi tra sam , whe act - bas met run the ris of cho hig sig - to - noi vox tha can dis the tar cla .
whi ris is gre dep on the exa pro , but the rel ris for the dis - bas met gro mor qui wit inc dat dim , inc noi lev , dec tra set siz , and an inc fra of irr fea .
to exp thi con , let us exa the act cha of the vox sel by the two met in our dat .
in par , we wil foc on a sin sub in the sem cat stu : sub g , who bes ave nor ran err ( 123 ) is obt by a gnb cla usi 123 vox cho usi the act fea sel str .
the dis met als obt its bes err ( 123 ) usi 123 vox for thi par sub .
wha is the dif in the two set of vox sel usi the two met ? are the in fac dif in the deg of ove bet the two
let us con thr set of vox fro sub g : tho cho by act fea sel but not by dis ( act ) , tho cho by dis by not by act ( dis ) , and tho cho ind by bot met ( int ) .
for thi par sub , the are 123 vox in the int set , and 123 in eac of act and dis .
tra a gnb cla usi onl the vox in int yie an err of ( 123 ) , sli but not sig bet tha the err fro the act vox .
fig 123 sho the deg of ove for eac of the thr set of vox .
on the lef , pan ( a ) pro a sca of tra set err ( hor axi ) ver tes set err ( ver axi ) .
the str lin ind whe tra err equ tes err .
not all thr set of vox ove to som deg ( i . e . , tes err is gen gre tha or equ to tra err ) , but the clu of vox ran fur fro the str lin for the dis vox .
on the rig , pan ( b ) pro a his sho the num of vox in eac set tha ove to var deg .
not the dis vox set con man mor vox tha ove to a lar deg .
bas on the dat sum in thi gur , it is cle tha the deg of ove is ind gre in thi cas for vox sel by dis tha tho sel by act .
it is als cle tha the vox in int suf the lea ove .
a dif vie int the cha of the thr vox set is pro by gur 123
the top por of thi gur plo the 123 vox wit the bes tra set err fro eac of the thr set .
eac vox plo sho the lea gau mod for eac of the twe tar cla .
not the gre spr of the mod for the vox cho by the dis met ( dis and int ) tha for the act set .
the bot por of gur 123 pro a sca plo of sta dev ( hor axi ) ver tes err ( ver axi ) for the thr vox set .
not the sig low sta dev for the act set .
abo we sug tha the dis met for fea sel car a ris of se - lec vox tha ove the dat .
the abo dat , esp fro gur 123 , ind tha in fac ove is gre for dis tha for act in our dat .
we als sug the act met car the cou ris of sel irr vox .
is thi
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
( a ) sca plo of tra set err ( hor axi ) aga tes set err ( ver axi ) for the vox in eac sub ( row ) .
( b ) his dep for eac vox sub the num of vox tha ove to var deg .
the hor axi in thi cas is ( tes err min tra err ) , mea the deg of ove .
in fac occ in our cas ? the plo in gur 123 sho tha the act set of vox - els doe app to con vox tha are poo dis amo the twe tar
to und the imp of poo dis ( irr vox ) sel by the act met , con the rel wei of the rel ver irr vox use by a gnb .
giv an ins ( cid : 123 ) x to be cla , the log odd ass by the gnb for two cla ci and c j is
p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) p ( c j | ( cid : 123 ) x )
p ( c j )
p ( xk | ci ) p ( xk | c j )
whe xk is the obs val for the kth fea of ( cid : 123 ) x , and whe p den dis est by gnb bas on the tra dat .
not the gnb cla wil pre cla ci if the abo log odd rat is pos , and c j if it is neg .
thu , the dec of the gnb is det by a lin sum , whe eac vox con one ter to the sum .
mit et al .
in the top hal of the gur , eac plo sho the 123 lea cla pro den p ( xk | ci ) for a sin vox xk , for sub g in the sem cat stu .
the x axi ran fro 123 to 123
eac row con the 123 vox wit the low tra set err fro eac vox sub , sor by inc err .
for ref , the lef and rig plo in eac row hav the ( tra set , tes set ) err val bel the .
the bot hal of the gur pro sca dep the ave cla sta dev ( hor axi ) aga the tes err ( ver axi ) for eac vox sub ( row ) .
not the hig var for the dis vox ( int and dis ) .
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
now let us con a vox xk whi is tru irr to the cla ( i . e . , whe the tru dis p ( xk | ci ) and p ( xk | c j ) are ide ) .
fir , con the sit in whi the lea est p ( xk | ci ) and p ( xk | c j ) are als ide .
in thi cas the fra inv xk wil be equ to 123 , its log wil be equ to 123 reg of the obs val of xk , and vox xk wil the hav no inu on the nal gnb de - cis .
now con the sit in whi p ( xk | ci ) and p ( xk | c j ) dif ( e . g . , due to ove ) des the fac tha p ( xk | ci ) = p ( xk | c j ) .
in thi cas , the xk ter wil in fac be non - zer , and wil hav a det , ran inu on the nal gnb cla .
is thi in fac occ in our dat ? the plo in gur 123 sug tha the act vox tha are irr ( i . e . , tho in act ) do ind hav str ove - pin p ( xk | ci ) dis , lim the mag of the con to the nal gnb
to sum , we nd cle emp evi tha fea sel con im - pro cla acc in our dom .
fur , we nd cle emp evi - den tha act - bas fea sel met con out dis - bas met ( eve act - bas fea sel met we con out dis - bas fea sel , in eac of our thr fmr stu ) .
the gen cha - act of our pro dom tha ena thi kin of fea sel is sum in gur 123
in par , the key cha is the ava of a thi cat of dat in whi nei of the tar cla is rep whi we ref to as the zer sig cla of dat .
we con , and sup wit a var of emp obs , tha act - bas fea sel may out dis - bas fea sel in zer - sig cla pro , esp wit inc dat dim , noi , and dat spa , and as the pro of tru rel fea dec .
giv tha a var of sen - bas cla pro t thi zer - sig lea set , we bel one of the mos sig les lea fro the fmr dom is the uti of act - bas fea sel in suc dom .
exa of suc sen - bas cla pro inc spe voi ide ( whe zer sig dat cor to bac mi - cro noi whe nob is spe ) , and vid obj cla in xed - cam set ( whe zer sig dat cor to bac ima con no obj of int ) .
add res is nee to for thi zer - sig lea set and exp its rel in the and oth dom .
one esp pro dir for fut wor is to und how bes to ble act - bas and dis - bas fea sel to opt lea acc .
can one tra cla acr mul sub ?
all res dis so far in thi pap hav foc on the pro of tra sub - spe cla .
thi sec con the que of whe it is pos to tra cla tha app acr mul hum sub , inc hum sub who are not par of the tra set .
thi is an imp goa bec if it is fea it ope the pos of dis sub - ind reg in bra act ass wit dif typ of cog pro , it ope the pos of sha tra cla amo res ana fmr dat col fro man dif peo , and it mak
mit et al .
it pos to poo tra dat fro mul sub to all the spa dat pro in thi dom .
the big obs to ana of mul - sub fmr dat is ana var amo sub .
dif bra var sig in the sha and siz , as is app fro the ima tak fro thr dif bra in gur 123
thi var mak it pro - lem to reg the man tho of vox in one bra to the pre cor loc in a dif bra .
one com app to thi pro is to tra ( geo - met mor ) fmr dat fro dif sub int som sta ana spa , suc as tal coo ( tal & tou , 123 ) .
the dra of thi met is tha the mor tra typ int an err on the ord of a cen , in ali the mil - sca vox fro dif bra .
the alt tha we con - sid her is to ins abs the fmr act , usi the mea act wit eac roi as the cla inp , ins of usi ind vox act .
in oth wor , we tre eac roi as a lar sup who act is den by the mea act ove all the vox it con .
not thi is equ to usi our roi fea sel met , inc all vox wit eac roi .
des the ana var in bra siz and sha , it is rel eas for tra exp to man ide the sam set of roi in eac sub .
a sec dif tha ari whe tra mul - sub cla is tha the int - sit of fmr res to a par sti is oft dif acr sub .
to par add thi iss , we emp a nor met tha lin res the dat fro dif sub int the sam max - min ran .
whi the are man cro - sub dif tha can be add by thi sim lin tra , we hav fou thi nor to be use .
we hav als fou tha a sim nor met can som red cla err for sin - sub cla , whe use to nor dat acr dif tri ass wit a sin sub .
of cou a thi dif tha ari is sim tha dif peo may thi dif , and we hav no rea to ass a pri tha we wou nd the sam spa - tem pat of fmr act in two sub eve if we cou per ali the bra spa , and per nor the rel int of the fmr rea .
thu , the que of whe one can tra mul - sub cla is par a que of whe dif bra beh suf sim to exh a com pat of act .
we per exp to tra mul - sub cla usi two dat set : the pic ver sen dat , and the syn amb dat .
the fol two sub - tio des the two exp in tur .
we did not att to tra mul - sub cla for the thi dat , sem cat , bec we exp the det pat - ter of act tha dis wor cat wou be und onc the vox - lev dat was abs to mea roi act .
sen ver pic stu .
we tra mul - sub cla for the sen - ten ver pic stu , to dis whe the sub was vie a pic or a sen .
mul - sub cla wer tra usi dat fro 123 of the 123 sub , abs the dat fro eac sub int sev roi sup .
to eva the err of the tra cla , we use lea - one - sub - out cro val .
in par , for
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
tab 123
err for mul - sub cla , sen ver pic stu .
the rig col sho the err of a mul - sub cla whe app to sub wit fro the tra set , usi lea - one - sub - out cro val .
res are obt usi nor - tio and 123 roi .
all cla are tra by ave - agi all vox in an roi int a sup .
123 con int are com und the as - sum tha tes exa are ide , ind - pen ber dis .
the err of a ran - dom cla is 123 .
in thi ana we emp the gnb - dis ver of gnb .
eac sub we tra on the rem 123 sub , mea the err on thi hel out sub , the cal the mea err ove all hel out sub .
not tha in thi cas the are 123 exa ava to tra thi mul - sub cla , in con to the 123 exa ava to tra the sin - sub cla des ear .
the res , sum in tab 123 , sho tha the lin svm lea a mul - sub cla tha ach err of 123 123 ove the lef out sub .
thi is hig sta - tis sig com to the 123 err exp of a def cla gue the maj cla .
thi ind tha it is ind pos to tra a cla to cap sig sub - ind reg in bra act tha are suf str to det cog sta in hum sub who are not par of the tra set .
as in ear exp , we not tha svm and gnb aga out knn , and tha the per of knn imp wit inc val of k .
alt the res dem tha it is pos to lea mul - sub cla wit acc bet tha ran , the acc are bel tho ach by the sin - sub cla sum in tab 123
for exa , the mul - sub svm cla err of 123 is les acc tha the mea sin - sub cla err of 123 rep in tab 123
thi dif cou be due to a var of fac , ran fro the low spa res enc of fmr inp in the mul - sub cla ( i . e . , usi sup ins of mil - sca vox ) , to pos dif in bra act ove dif
in a sec set of exp we dir com tra sin - sub ver mul - sub cla , thi tim usi ide tra met and ide en - cod for the cla inp ( roi , usi all vox wit sev man sel roi ) .
in the exp we use the sam pic ver sen dat , but
mit et al .
tab 123
err for sin - sub and mul - sub cla , whe tra on p - the - s , and s - the - p dat .
the thi col sho the ave err of cla tra for sin sub .
the fou col sho the err of mul - sub cla app to sub wit fro the tra set .
res are obt usi nor .
all cla are tra bas upo ave all vox in an roi int a sup .
123 con int are com und the ass tha tes exa are i . i . d .
ber dis .
the err of a ran cla is 123 .
thi tim we par the dat int two dis sub : tri in whi the sen was pre bef the pic ( whi we wil ref to as s - the - p ) , and tri in whi the pic was pre bef the sen ( whi we wil cal p - the - s ) .
not tha sep the dat in thi fas res in an eas cla pro , bec all exa of one sti ( e . g . , sen ) occ in the sam tem con ( e . g . , fol - low onl the res per in the s - the - p dat , or fol onl the pic sti in the p - the - s dat ) , and hen exh les var .
for eac of the two dat sub - set we tra bot mul - sub and sin - sub cla , usi gnb , svm , and knn cla , and emp roi fea sel wit all vox in the sel roi .
the res are sum in tab 123
not for com we pre bot the lea - 123 - sub - out err of the mul - sub cla , and the ave lea - one - exa - per - cla - out err of the cor sin - sub cla .
as in the rst exp , the mul - sub cla ach acc sig gre tha the 123 exp fro ran gue .
int , the mul - sub cla ach err rat com to tho of the sin - sub cla , and in a few cas ach err rat sup to tho of the sin - sub cla the fac tha the mul - sub cla are bei eva on sub out the tra set .
pre thi bet per by the mul - sub cla can be exp by the fac tha it is tra usi an ord of mag mor tra exa , fro twe sub rat tha one .
we int the res as str sup for the fea of tra hig acc cla tha app to nov hum sub .
not the cla are gen mor acc tha tho in the rst exp , pre due to the eas cla tas as dis abo .
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
syn amb stu .
we als att to tra mul - sub cla for the syn amb stu , to dis whe the sub was rea an am - big or non - amb sen .
in thi cas , the err of the mul - sub cla was 123 123 und lea - one - sub - out cro val , and cor the ave err of sin - sub cla is 123 123 .
the set whi pro thi res was usi the gnb cla , min - max nor , and the fea sel met roi , ave the 123 mos act vox fro eac of fou pre - den roi ( lef and rig bro , and lef and rig tem reg ) int sup .
the err are sig bet tha exp fro a ran cla , 123 .
unl the sen ver pic stu , how , the res are qui sen to the par - ula sel of lea met and fea sel .
alt we can dra str con fro thi res , it doe pro mod add sup for the fea of tra mul - sub cla .
sum and con
we hav pre res fro thr dif fmr stu dem the fea of tra cla to dis a var of cog sta , bas on sin - int fmr obs .
thi pro is int bot bec of its rel to stu hum cog , and as a cas stu of mac lea in hig dim , noi , spa dat
our com of cla ind tha gau nai bay ( gnb ) and lin sup vec mac ( svm ) cla out k nea nei acr all thr stu , and tha fea sel met con imp cla err in all thr stu .
in com gnb to svm , we fou tre con wit the obs in ng and jor ( 123 ) , tha the rel per of gen ver dis cla dep in a pre fas on the num of tra exa and dat dim .
in par , our exp are con wit the hyp tha the acc of svm inc rel mor qui tha the acc of gnb as the dat dim is red via fea sel , and as the num of tra exa inc .
fea sel is an imp asp in the des of cla for hig dim , spa , noi dat .
we den a new cla set ( the zer sig set ) tha cap an imp asp of our fmr cla pro , as wel as a var of oth cla - cat pro inv sen dat .
in thi set , the ava dat inc not onl exa of the cla to be dis ( e . g . , dat whe the sub is vie a pic or a sen ) , but als a cla of zer sig dat ( e . g . , whe the sub is vie nei a pic nor a sen , but is sim xat on the scr ) .
our exp sho tha wit our dom act - bas fea sel met whi tak adv of thi zer sig dat con out tra dis - bas fea sel met tha use onl dat fro the tar cla .
our dat and our ana als sug tha the rel ben of act - bas ver dis - bas fea sel wil inc as dat bec mor spa , mor noi , hig dim , and as the fra of rel fea dec .
as is cle fro our des of the fmr dat set , thi dom rep a fai ext poi alo all fou of the dim .
we pla fur
mit et al .
res to dev a mor pre for mod of thi zer sig set , and to dev and exp wit fea sel str tun to tak max adv of thi
in add to tra cla to det cog sta in sin sub , we als ex - plo the fea of tra cro - sub cla to mak pre acr mul hum sub .
in thi cas , we fou it use to abs the fmr dat by usi the mea fmr act in eac of sev ana den bra reg .
usi thi app , it was pos to tra cla to dis , e . g . , whe the sub was vie a pic or a sen des a pic , and to app the suc to sub out the tra set .
in som cas , the cla acc for sub out the tra set equ the acc ach by tra on dat fro jus thi sin sub .
giv thi suc in tra mul - sub cla , we pla add res to exp a num of alt app to cro - sub cla ( e . g . , ins of abs the dat for eac sub , map the dif bra str to a sta coo sys suc as tal coo ) .
the are man add opp for mac lea res in the con of fmr dat ana .
for exa , it wou be use to lea mod of tem beh , in con to the wor rep her whi con onl dat at a sin tim or tim int .
mac lea met suc as hid mar mod and dyn bay net app rel to thi pro .
a sec res dir is to dev lea met tha tak adv of dat fro mul stu , in con to the sin stu eff des her .
in our own lab , for exa , we hav acc fmr dat fro ove 123 hum sub .
in ord to dev lea met to tak adv of suc dat , it wil be nec to add bot how to com dat fro mul sub and how to com dat fro sub pre wit dif sti .
a thi res top is to dev mac lea met tha cou tak as a sta poi com cog mod of hum pro , suc as act - r ( and et al . , 123 ) and 123 ( jus , car , & var , 123 ) , usi the as pri kno for gui the ana of fmr dat , and aut ren the mod to bet t obs exp
as wit man rea - wor mac lea cas stu , our exp of the fmr pro dom has dra on les lea fro pre res in mac lea , and has yie new les of its own .
giv tha fmr is a pro inv ver hig dim , spa dat set , we dre hea on pre lea les fro sim dom suc as tex cla .
thi led us to emp svm , gnb , and knn cla alg tha hav pre pro use in suc dom , and led us to agg exp fea sel met for red the dim of the dat .
the mos sig new ins abo lea to ari fro our fmr stu thu far is the ide of the zer - sig lea set and the dev of new and hig eff fea sel met for thi set .
in par , our dis of the une dom of act - bas fea sel met ove com use dis - bas met was an ess ste tow tra suc cla in thi dom , and sug tha sim fea sel app may be use in oth hig dim , spa dom tha t the zer - sig lea set .
loo
lea to dec cog sta fro bra ima
for , we exp mac lea met to hav an inc imp on the ana of fmr dat as thi eld mat , and for add opp for the fmr dom to dri nov mac lea res , esp in pro rel to dis of rep for mer dat fro mul sub , and in lea tem mod of cog pro .
we are gra to lui j .
bar for hel dis and det com on var dra of thi pap .
tha to vla che and joe wel for use obs and sug dur the cou of thi wor , and to pau ben for man hel dis and for wri par of the cod use for the sem cat stu .
we are als gra for the det com of two ano rev , whi led to sig imp to the nal ver of thi pap .
rad ste nic was sup by a gra fel fro the mer com - tat bio and che pro at car mel uni est by the mer com fou and by nat sci fou ( nsf ) gra no .
ccr - 123
fra per was fun by the cen for neu bas of cog , a pra xxi sch fro fun par a cie e tec , por ( iii qua com de apo , com pel fun soc eur ) and a phd sch - shi fro fun cal gul , por .
reb hut was sup by an nsf gra fel .
sup for col the fmr dat set was pro by gra num n12 - 123 - 123 - 123 fro the mul uni res ini ( mur ) of the ofc of the sec of def .
fia is ava at htt : / / www . sta . cmu . edu / asc .
not thi cla tas is mad mor dif by the fac tha the rst sti is alw pre for
fou sec , whe the sec sti is ter as soo as the sub res wit a but pre .
the exp inc fou typ of sen .
we con her onl two typ , cor to the mos
and lea amb .
