abs .
the pro of for gen con fro spe tra exa has lon bee a maj foc of mac lea res .
whi mos pre res has foc on emp met for gen fro a lar num of tra exa usi no dom - spe kno , in the pas few yea new met hav bee dev for app dom - spe kno to for - mul val gen fro sin tra exa .
the cha com to the met is tha the abi to gen fro a sin exa fol fro the abi to exp why the tra exa is a mem of the con bei lea .
thi pap pro a gen , dom - ind mec , cal ebg , tha uni pre app to exp - bas gen .
the ebg met is ill in the con of sev exa pro , and use to con sev exi sys for exp - bas gen .
the per on exp - bas gen af - for by thi gen met is als use to ide ope res pro in thi are .
int and mot
the abi to gen fro exa is wid rec as an ess cap of any lea sys .
gen inv obs a set of tra exa of som gen con , ide the ess fea com to the ex - amp , the for a con def bas on the com fea .
the gen pro can thu be vie as a sea thr a vas spa of pos con def , in sea of a cor def of the con to be lea .
bec thi spa of pos con def is vas , the hea of the gen - tio pro lie in uti wha tra dat , ass and kno are ava to con thi sea .
mos res on the gen pro has foc on emp , dat - int met tha rel on lar num of tra exa to con the sea for the cor gen ( see mit , 123 mic , 123 die ,
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
123 for ove of the met ) .
the met all emp som kin of ind - tiv bia to gui the ind lea tha the mus mak in ord to def a con fro onl a sub of its exa ( mit , 123 ) .
thi bia is typ bui int the gen by pro it wit kno onl of tho exa fea tha are pre rel to des the con to be lea .
thr var alg it is the pos to sea thr the res spa of con def in ter of the all fea , to det con def con - ten wit the tra exa .
bec the met are bas on sea for fea tha are com to the tra exa , we sha ref to the as sim - bas gen met . 123
in rec yea , a num of res hav pro gen met tha con sha wit the dat - int , sim - bas met ( e . g . , bor et al . , 123 dej , 123 ked - cab , 123 kel , 123 leb , 123 mah , 123 min , 123 mit , 123 mit et al . , 123 o ' ror , 123 sal & atk , 123 sch , 123 sil , 123 utg , 123 win et al . , 123 ) .
rat tha rel on man tra exa and an ind bia to con the sea for a cor gen , the mor rec met con the sea by rel on kno of the tas dom and of the con und stu .
aft ana a sin tra exa in ter of thi kno , the met are abl to pro a val gen of the exa alo wit a ded jus of the gen in ter of the sys ' s kno .
mor pre , the exp - bas met ana the tra exa by fir con an exp of how the exa sat the def - tio of the con und stu .
the fea of the exa ide by thi ex - pla are the use as the bas for for the gen con def .
the jus for thi con def fol fro the exp con for the tra exa .
thu , by rel on kno of the dom and of the con und stu , exp - bas met ove the fun dif ass wit in - duc , sim - bas met : the ina to jus the gen tha the pro .
the bas dif bet the two cla of met is tha sim - bas met mus rel on som for of ind bia to gui gen , whe exp - bas met rel ins on the dom kno .
whi exp - bas met pro a mor rel mea of
' the ter sim - bas gen was sug by leb ( 123 ) .
we use thi ter to cov bot met tha sea for sim amo pos exa , and for dif bet pos and neg exa .
123 the ter exp - bas gen was fir int by dej ( 123 ) to des his par - tic gen met .
the aut hav pre use the ter goa - dir gen ( mit , 123 ) to ref to the own exp - bas gen met .
in thi pap , we use the ter exp - bas gen to ref to the ent cla of met tha for gen - tio by con exp .
gen , and are abl to ext mor inf fro ind tra exa , the als req tha the lea pos kno of the dom and of the con und stu .
it see cle tha for a lar num of gen pro enc by int age , thi req kno is ava to the lea .
in thi pap we pre and ana a num of suc gen
the pur of thi pap is to con in det the cap and req of exp - bas app to gen , and to int a sin mec tha uni pre des app .
in par , we pre a dom - ind met ( cal ebg ) for uti dom - spe kno to gui gen , and ill its use in a num of gen tas tha hav pre bee app usi dif exp - bas met .
ebg con a mor gen mec for exp - bas gen tha the pre app .
bec it req a lar num of exp inp ( i . e . , the tra exa , a dom the , a def of the con und stu , and a des of the for in whi the lea con mus be exp ) ebg can be ins for a wid var of lea tas .
fin , ebg pro a per - tiv for ide the pre lim of exp - bas gen , and for ide ope res pro in thi are .
the rem of thi pap is org as fol .
sec 123 int the gen ebg met for exp - bas gen , and ill the met wit an exa .
sec 123 the ill the ebg met in the con of two add exa : ( 123 ) lea a str def of a cup fro a tra - ing exa plu kno abo the fun of a cup ( bas on win et al . ' s ( 123 ) wor ) , and ( 123 ) lea a sea heu fro an exa sea tre plu kno abo sea and the sea spa ( bas on mit et al . ' s ( 123 ) wor on the lex sys ) .
sec 123 con wit a gen per on exp - bas gen and a dis of sig ope res iss in thi are .
the app rel dej ' s ( 123 , 123 ) res on exp - bas gen and exp sch acq to the oth wor dis her .
exp - bas gen : dis and an exa
the key ins beh exp - bas gen is tha it is pos to for a jus gen of a sin pos tra exa pro the lea sys is end wit som exp cap .
in par , the sys mus be abl to exp to its why the tra exa is an exa of the con und stu .
thu , the gen is pre to pos a def of the con und stu as wel as dom kno for con the req exp .
in thi sec , we def mor pre the cla of gen pro cov by exp - bas met , def the gen ebg met , and ill it in ter of a spe exa pro .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
123 the exp - bas gen pro
in ord to def the gen pro con her , we fir int som ter .
a con is def as a pre ove som uni of in - sta , and thu cha som sub of the ins .
eac ins in thi uni is des by a col of gro lit tha rep its fea and the val .
a con def des the nec and suf con for bei an exa of the con , whi a suf con def des suf con for bei an exa of the con .
an ins tha sat the con def is cal an exa , or pos exa of tha con , whe an ins tha doe not sat the con def is cal a neg exa of tha con .
a gen of an exa is a con def whi des a set con tha exa . 123 an exp of how an ins is an ex - amp of a con is a pro tha the exa sat the con def .
an exp str is the pro tre , mod by rep eac ins rul by the ass gen rul .
the gen pro def sho in tab 123 sum the cla of gen pro con in thi pap .
tab 123 ill a par in - sta of an exp - bas gen pro fro thi cla .
as ind by the tab , def an exp - bas lea pro inv spe fou kin of inf :
the goa con def the con to be acq .
for ins , in the pro def in tab 123 the tas is to lea to rec pai of obj <x , y> suc tha it is saf to sta x on top of y .
not tha the goa con
tab 123
the exp - bas gen pro
goa con : a con def des the con to be lea .
( it is ass tha thi
con def fai to sat the ope cri . )
tra exa : an exa of the goa con .
dom the : a set of rul and fac to be use in exp how the tra exa is an
exa of the goa con .
ope cri : a pre ove con def , spe the for in whi the
lea con def mus be exp .
a gen of the tra exa tha is a suf con def for the goa con
and tha sat the ope cri .
123 in fac , we use the ter gen in thi pap bot as a nou ( to ref to a gen con def -
tio ) , and as a ver ( to ref to the pro of der thi gen ) .
tab 123
the saf - to - sta gen pro aft bor et al .
( 123 )
goa con : pai of obj <x , y> suc tha saf - to - sta ( x , y ) , whe
saf - to - sta ( x , y ) not ( fra ( y ) ) v lig ( x , y ) .
on ( obj 123 , obj ) isa ( obj 123 , box ) isa ( obj , end ) col ( obj , red ) col ( obj , blu ) vol ( obj 123 , 123 ) den ( obj 123 , . 123 )
vol ( p12 , vl ) a den ( p12 , dl ) - > wei ( p12 , vl* ) wei ( p12 , wl ) a wei ( p12 , w12 ) a les ( wl , w12 ) - > lig ( p12 , p12 ) isa ( p12 , end ) - wei ( p12 , 123 ) ( def )
ope cri : the con def mus be exp in ter of the pre use to des exa ( e . g . , vol , col , den ) or oth sel , eas eva , pre fro the dom the ( e . g . , les ) .
a gen of tra exa tha is a suf con def for the goa con and
tha sat the ope cri .
her , saf - to - sta , is def in ter of the pre fra and lig , whe the tra exa is def in ter of oth pre - ica ( i . e . , col , den , vol , etc . ) .
the tra exa is a pos exa of the goa con .
for ins , the tra exa of tab 123 des a pai of obj , a box and an end - tab , whe one is saf sta on the oth .
the dom the inc a set of rul and fac tha all exp how tra exa are mem of the goa con .
for ins , the dom the for thi pro inc def of fra and lig , rul for inf fea lik the wei of an obj fro its den and vol , rul tha sug def val suc as the wei of an end , and fac suc as ' . 123 is les tha 123 ' .
the ope cri def the ter in whi the out con def mus be exp .
our use of thi ter is bas on mos ' s ( 123 ) def tha a pro is ope rel to a giv age and tas , pro tha the pro can be app by the age to sol the tas .
sim , we ass tha the lea con def wil be use by som age to per som tas , and mus be def in ter ope for
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
tha age and tas .
for thi pro , the ope cri req tha the fin con def be des in ter of the pre use to des the tra exa ( e . g . , col , vol , den ) or in ter of a sel set of eas eva pre fro the dom the ( e . g . , les ) .
ree the goa con in the ter wil mak it ope - tio wit res to the tas of eff rec exa of the
giv the fou inp , the tas is to det a gen of the tra exa tha is a suf con def for the goa con and tha sat the ope cri .
not tha the not of ope is cru for exp - bas gen : if the ope cri wer not spe , the inp goa con def cou alw be a cor out con def and the wou be not to lea ! the ope cri imp a req - men tha lea con def mus be not onl cor , but als in a usa for bef lea is com .
thi add req is bas on the vie - poi tha con def are not lea as the ent , but rat as pra ent to be use by a par age for a par tas .
123 the ebg met
the ebg met , whi is des to add the abo cla of pro , is de - fin as fol :
the ebg met 123
exp : con an exp in ter of the dom the tha pro how
the tra exa sat the goa con def .
thi exp mus be con so tha eac bra of the exp - tio str ter in an exp tha sat the ope
gen : det a set of suf con und whi the exp
str hol , sta in ter tha sat the ope cri .
thi is acc by reg the goa con thr the exp str .
the con of the res reg exp con the des con def .
to see mor con how the ebg met wor , con aga the pro of lea the con saf - to - sta ( x , y ) .
the bot of fig 123 sho a tra exa for thi pro , des in ter of a sem net of ob - jec and rel .
in par , the exa con of two phy obj , obj 123
fig 123
exp of saf - to - sta ( obj , obj ) .
and obj , in whi obj is on obj , and for whi sev fea of the obj are des ( e . g . , the own , col ) .
giv thi tra exa , the tas is to det whi of its fea are rel - van to cha the goa con , and whi are irr .
to thi end , the fir ste of the ebg met is to con an exp of how the tra exa - ple sat the goa con .
not tha the exp con a pro , and con suc an exp the may inv in gen the com of the pro .
the exp for the tra exa dep in the low
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
por of fig 123 is giv in the top por of the fig .
as sho the , the pai of obj <ob , obj sat the goa con saf - to - sta bec obj is lig tha obj
fur , thi is kno bec the wei of obj and obj can be inf .
for obj , the wei is inf fro its den and vol , whe for obj the wei is inf bas on a rul tha spe the def wei of end in gen .
thr thi cha of inf , the exp str dem how obj and obj sat the goa con def .
not tha the exp str - tur has bee con so tha eac of its bra ter in an exp tha sat the ope cri ( e . g . , vol ( obj , 123 ) , les ( . l , 123 ) ) .
in thi way , the exp str sin out tho fea of the tra exa tha are rel to sat the goa con , and tha pro the bas for con a jus gen of the tra exa .
for the cur exa , the rel - van tra exa fea are sho sha ove in the fig , and cor to the con vol ( obj , 123 ) a den ( obj , 123 ) a isa ( obj ,
whe the fir ste of the ebg met iso the rel fea of the tra - ing exa , it doe not det the des gen con on fea val .
for ins , whi the fea vol ( obj , 123 ) is rel to exp how the pre tra exa sat the goa con , the gen con on acc val for vol is yet to be det .
the sec ste of the ebg met the gen on tho fea val sel by the fir ste , by det suf con on the fea val tha all eac ste in the exp str to car thr .
in ord to det gen suf con und whi the exp hol , the sec ste of the ebg met inv reg ( bac pro ) the goa con ste by ste bac thr the exp str .
in gen , reg - ing a giv for f thr a rul r is a mec for det the nec and suf ( wea ) con und whi tha rul r can be use to inf f .
we emp a sli mod ver of the goa - reg alg des by wal ( 123 ) and nil ( 123 ) . 123 our mod goa reg alg com an exp tha rep onl a suf con ( rat tha nec and suf con ) und whi rul r can be use to inf for f , but tha cor clo to the tra exa und con .
in par - tic , whe the gen goa reg alg con all pos var bin ( uni ) und whi r can inf f , our mod alg con onl the spe var bin use in the exp of the tra exa .
fur , if the rul r con a dis ant ( lef - han sid ) , the our
123 dij ( 123 ) int the rel not of wea pre in the con of pro pro cor .
the wea pre of a pro cha the set of all ini sta of tha pro suc tha act gua a fin sta sat som pos .
fig 123
gen fro the exp of saf - to - sta ( obj , obj ) .
( und exp - sio are the res of reg the goa con . )
alg con onl the par dis sat by the tra exa .
fig 123 ill the sec ste of the ebg met in the con of the saf - to - sta exa .
in the fir ( top ) ste of thi fig , the goa con ex - pre saf - to - sta ( x , y ) is reg thr the rul lig ( pi , p12 ) - saf - to - sta ( p12 , p12 ) , 123 to det tha lig ( x , y ) is a suf con for inf saf - to - sta ( x , y ) .
sim , reg lig ( x , y ) thr the nex ste in the exp str yie the exp wei ( x , wl ) a wei ( y , w12 ) a les ( wl , w12 ) .
thi exp is in tur reg thr the fin ste of the exp str to yie the ope def for saf - to - sta ( x , y ) .
to ill the goa reg pro in gre det , con the fin ste of fig 123 in whi the exp wei ( x , wl ) a wei ( y , w12 ) a les ( wl , w12 ) is reg thr the fin ste of the exp str .
eac con of the exp is reg sep thr the app rul , in the fol - ing way .
the con is uni ( mat ) wit the con ( rig - han sid ) of
123 not tha the def of saf - to - sta giv in tab 123 is a dis def .
as not abo , the pro con onl the dis tha is sat by the cur tra exa ( e . g . , the dis inv the lig pre ) .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
the rul to yie som set of sub ( par var bin ) .
the sub - tio con wit the exa is the app to the ant ( lef - han sid ) of the rul to yie the res reg exp . 123 any con of the ori exp whi can be uni wit the con of any rul are sim add to the res reg exp ( wit the sub app to the ) .
as il - lus in the fig , reg the con wei ( x , wl ) thr the rul vol ( p12 , vl ) a den ( p12 , dl ) - wei ( p12 , vl* ) the yie vol ( x , vl ) a den ( x , dl ) .
reg the con wei ( y , w12 ) thr the rul isa ( p12 , end ) - > wei ( p12 , 123 ) yie isa ( y , end - tab ) .
fin , sin no rul con can be uni wit the con les ( wl , w12 ) , thi con is sim add to the res reg exp aft app the sub pro by reg the oth con .
in thi cas the sub are ( x / pl , vl* / wl , y / p12 , 123 / w12 ) , whi yie the thi con les ( vl* , 123 ) .
the fin , ope def for saf - to - sta ( x , y ) is
vol ( x , vl ) a den ( x , dl ) a les ( vl* , 123 ) a isa ( y , end )
- saf - to - sta ( x , y )
thi exp cha in ope ter the fea of the tra ex - amp tha are suf for the exp str to car thr in gen .
as suc , it rep a jus gen of the tra exa , for whi the exp str ser as a jus .
sev gen poi reg the ebg met are ill in the abo exa - ple .
the mai poi of the abo exa is tha the ebg met pro a jus gen fro a sin tra exa in a two - ste pro .
the fir ste cre an exp tha sep the rel fea val in the exa fro the irr one .
the sec ste ana thi exp to det the par - tic con on the fea val tha are suf for the exp str to app in gen .
thu , exp - bas met suc as ebg ove - com the mai lim of sim - bas met : the ina to pro jus gen .
thi is acc by ass tha the lea has ava kno of the dom , the goa con , and the ope
123 it is cor obs in dej ( 123 ) tha the sub lis use to reg exp thr pre ste in the exp mus be app to the cur exp bef the nex reg ste .
cri , whe sim - bas gen doe not rel on any of the
a sec poi ill by the abo exa is tha the lan in whi the fin con def is sta can be qui ric .
not in the abo exa tha the fin gen inc a con tha the pro of the den and vol of x mus be les tha 123
the are ver man suc rel amo the par of the tra exa tha mig be con dur gen ( e . g . , why not con the fac tha the own of the two obj are of dif sex ? ) .
the int poi her is tha the app con was der dir by ana the exp , wit con the uni of pos rel amo par of the tra exa .
thi is in mar con wit sim - bas gen met ( e . g .
mic , 123 qui , 123 ) .
suc met are typ bas on a heu foc cri , suc as the heu tha ' les com fea are pre ove mor com fea for cha - izi con ' .
the , bef suc met wil con the fea les ( vl* , 123 ) as a pla bas for gen , the mus fir con vas num of syn sim , irr fea .
a fin poi ill by thi exa is tha the fin con def pro - duc by ebg is typ a spe of the goa con rat tha a dir ree of the con .
thi is lar due to the fac tha the exp str - tur is cre for the giv tra exa , and doe not exp eve pos exa of the goa con .
thu , the gen pro fro ana thi exp wil onl cov exa for whi the exp hol .
fur , bec the mod goa reg alg com onl suf ( not nec and suf ) con und whi the exp hol , it lea to a fur spe of the con .
thi lim of exp - bas gen sug an int pro for fur res : dev exp - bas met tha can uti mul tra exa ( see the dis - sio in sec 123 ) .
oth exa and var
thi sec dis two add exa of exp - bas gen tha hav pre bee rep in the lit .
the fir is win , bin , kat , and low ' s ( 123 ) res on lea str def of con suc as ' cup ' fro the fun def .
the sec is mit , kel , and utg ' s ( 123 ) res on lea sea heu fro exa ( see als utg , 123 kel , 123 ) .
a com per on the two sys is pro by ins the ebg met for bot pro .
dif amo the two ori app and the ebg met are als con , in ord to und som sub of the ebg met , and to sug som pos var .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
123 an exa : lea the con cup
in thi sub we fir sum the app of the ebg met to a sec exa of an exp - bas gen pro : the cup gen pro , pat aft the wor of win et al .
( 123 ) .
we the dis the rel - tio bet the ebg met and the ana pro of win et al . , whi add thi sam pro .
the cup gen pro , def in tab 123 , inv lea a str def of a cup fro its fun def .
in par , the goa con her is the con cup , def as the cla of obj tha are ope - ves , lif - abl , and sta .
the dom the inc rul tha rel the pro to the mor pri str pro of phy obj , suc as fla , han - dle , etc .
the ope cri req tha the out con def be use for the tas of vis rec exa of cup .
it thu req tha the out con def be exp in ter of its str fea .
fig 123 ill a tra exa des a par cup , obj , alo wit the exp tha sho how obj sat the goa con cup .
in par - tic , the exp ind how obj is lif , sta , and an ope - ves .
as in the saf - to - sta exa , thi exp dis the rel fea of the tra exa ( e . g . , its lig ) fro irr fea ( e . g . , its col ) .
the sec ste of the ebg met , reg the goa con thr the exp str , res in the fol gen def of the cup con :
( par - of ( x , xc ) a isa ( xc , con ) a is ( xc , upw - poi ) a par - of ( x , xb ) a isa ( xb , bot ) a is ( xb , fla ) a par - of ( x , xh ) a isa ( xh , han ) a is ( x , lig ) ) - cup ( x )
tab 123 cup gen pro aft win et al .
( 123 )
goa con : cla of obj , x , suc tha cup ( x ) , whe
cup ( x ) * lif ( x )
par - of ( obj , con - 123 )
is ( x , lig ) a par - of ( x , y ) a isa ( y , han ) - > lif ( x ) par - of ( x , y ) a isa ( y , bot ) a is ( y , fla ) - sta ( x ) par - of ( x , y ) a isa ( y , con ) a is ( y , upw - poi - ope - ves ( x )
ope cri : con def mus be exp in ter of str fea use
in des exa ( e . g . , lig , han , fla , etc . ) .
a gen of tra exa tha is a suf con def for the goa con and
tha sat the ope cri .
fig 123
exp of cup ( obj ) .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
as in the fir exa , the ebg met is abl to pro a val gen fro a sin tra exa , by exp and ana how the tra exa sat the def of the goa con .
not tha the reg ste in thi exa is qui str , and lea to gen the tra exa fea eff by rep con wit var ( i . e . , rep obj by x ) .
it is int tha sev ear att at exp - bas gen ( e . g . , mit , 123 ) inv the ass tha the exp cou alw be gen sim by rep con by var in the exp , wit the nee to reg the goa con thr the exp str . 123 as the ear saf - to - sta exa ill , thi is not the cas .
in gen , one mus reg the goa con thr the exp str to ens a val gen - iza of the tra exa ( whi may inv com ter fro dif par of the exp , req con whe no gen is pos , and
sev int fea of thi exa com to lig whe the ebg met is com to the met use in win et al . ' s ( 123 ) ana pro , upo whi thi exa pro is bas .
the mos str dif bet the two met is tha alt ana doe con an exp , and als use thi exp to gen fro a sin exa , the sys has no dom the of the kin use in the abo exa .
ins , win ' s pro con its exp by dra ana bet the tra exa and a lib of pre cas ( e . g . , ann des of exa sui , bri , bow , etc . ) .
for exa , ana exp tha the fla bot of obj all obj 123 to be sta , by dra an ana to a sto des of a bri whi has bee ann wit the ass tha its fla bot ' cau ' it to be sta .
sim , it rel on an ann exa of a sui to exp by ana why a han all obj to be lif .
in gen , the pre use by ana are ass to be ann by lin tha ind whi fea of the pre acc for whi of its pro .
thu , for the ana pro , the cau lin dis ove the lib of pre con its dom the .
how , thi the is qua dif - fer tha the dom the use in the cup exa abo : it is des by ex - ten rat tha int ( i . e . , by exa rat tha by gen rul ) , and is the a wea dom the .
bec ana ' s kno abo cau is sum by a col of ins of cau rel rat tha by gen rul of cau , its the can lea ded to ass abo new cau
thi obs is due in par to sri mah .
bec its dom the is wea , the ana sys rai som int que abo exp - bas gen .
whe the saf - to - sta and cup exa abo sho how a suf set of dom the rul can pro - vid pow gui for gen , ana sug how a wea , ex - ten the mig be use to foc the gen pro in a wea fas .
in par , the cau lin are use by ana to con a pla - ble exp , but not a pro , tha the tra exa sat the goa con def .
as dis abo , suc pla exp can gui gen by foc on pla rel fea of the tra exa .
but sin ana lac gen inf rul to cha the lin in thi exp , it can per the sec ( goa reg ) ste in the ebg met , and the has no val bas for gen the exp .
in fac , the ana pro gen any , imp , ass tha eac cau lin of the for ( fea ( obj ) - > pro ( obj ) ) is sup by a gen rul of the for ( ( vx ) fea ( x ) - pro ( x ) ) . 123 thu , ana rep an imp ste in con the use of a wea dom the to gui gen , and hel to ill a num of ope res iss ( see the dis in sec 123 ) .
123 an exa : lea a sea heu
thi sec pre a thi exa of an exp - bas gen pro - thi one inv the lea of sea heu .
thi exa is bas on the pro add by the lex pro ( mit et al . , 123 ) whi lea sea con heu for sol pro in the int cal .
in par , lex beg wit a set of leg ope ( tra ) for sol int ( e . g . , in - teg by par , mov con out the int ) .
for eac suc ope , the sys lea a heu tha sum the cla of int ( pro sta ) for whi it is use to app tha ope .
for exa , one typ heu lea by the lex sys is :
if the int is of the for j <po ' - / / ? >< the app int - by - par
thu , for eac of its giv ope , lex fac a gen pro : lea the cla of int for whi tha ope is use in rea a sol .
tab 123 def the gen pro tha cor to lea whe it is use to app op1 ( mov con out the int ) .
her the goa con use - op1 ( x ) des the cla of pro sta ( int ) for whi op1 wil
123 win ' s ( 123 ) own wor on bui rul cen can be vie as an att to add dif
tha ari fro thi imp ass .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
tab 123
the sea heu gen pro aft mit et at .
( 123 )
goa con : the cla of int exp tha can be sol by fir app ope op1 ( rem a con fro the int ) ; tha is , the cla of int , x , suc tha use - op1
use - op1 ( x ) not ( sol ( x ) ) a sol ( op1 ( x ) )
op1 : f r <an - fn>
- > r f <an - fn> .
tra exa : f 123 123
sol ( x ) ( 123 ) ( sol ( op ( x ) ) v sol ( op ( x ) ) ) mat ( x , ' f <an - fn> ' ) - not ( sol ( x ) ) mat ( x , ' <an - fn> ' ) - sol ( x ) mat ( op ( x ) , y ) mat ( x , reg ( y , op ) )
ope cri : con def mus be exp in a for tha use eas - com - fea suc as <po - fn> ,
the pro sta , x , ( e . g . ,
put fea of < tra - fn > , <an - fn> , r , k ) .
a gen of tra exa tha is a suf con def of the goa con and
tha sat the ope cri .
be use .
thi is def to be the cla of pro sta tha are not alr sol ( i . e . , alg exp tha con an int sig ) , and for whi app op1 lea to a sol pro sta .
the dom the in thi cas con rul tha rel sol and sol to obs fea of pro - lem sta ( e . g . , one rul sta tha if pro sta x mat the exp | < any ~ fn > dx , the x is not a sol sta . ) .
not tha som of the dom the rul con kno abo sea and pro sol in gen ( e . g . , the def of sol ) , whi oth rul rep kno spe to in - teg cal ( e . g . , tha the abs of an int sig den a sol sta ) .
the ope con in thi pro req tha the fin con def be sta in ter of eas - com fea of the giv pro sta .
thi re - qui ass tha the fin con def wil be in a for tha per its eff use as a sea con heu . 123 for the lex pro , the set of eas - com fea is des by a wel - def gen lan ove pro sta tha inc fea ( e . g . , < tri - fn > , < rea - con > ) whi lex can eff rec usi its mat pre .
123 if the con def wer per to inc fea tha are dif to com ( e . g . , sol ) , the the res heu wou be so exp to eva tha its use wou deg , rat tha imp , the pro sol ' s per .
fig 123 , exp of use - op1 ( j 123 123 ) .
a tra exa for the goa con use - op1 is sho in the bot por - tio of fig 123
in par , the pro sta j 123 dx con a tra exa - ple of a pro sta for whi app of op1 is use .
the tra exa des in the fig is sho alo wit the oth pro sta inv in its
the exp of use - op1 ( j 123 123 ) is sho in the top por of fig 123
the lef - han bra of thi exp str lea to a nod whi ass tha use - op1 is sat in par bec the tra exa sta is not alr a sol sta .
the rig - han bra of the exp str ex - pla tha app op1 to the exa sta lea to a sol pro sta .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
thi is in tur exp by ind tha app op1 to the res sta pro - duc a sol pro , as evi by the fac tha the res sta mat the exp ' <an - fn> ' ( i . e . , tha it con no int sig ) .
thu , up to thi poi ( mar as ( a ) in the fig ) , eac ste in the rig - han bra of the exp str cor to som ste alo the sol pat of the
by poi ( a ) , the exp has ind tha one rel fea of the tra exa sta is tha the res of app op1 fol by op1 , is a sta tha mat ' <an - fn> ' .
the ope cri req , how , tha the exp be in ter of fea of the sin giv tra exa sta , rat tha fea of its res sol sta .
thu , the rem of the exp con of ree thi con in ter of the tra exa sta .
thi is acc by app the las rul in the dom the of tab 123
thi rul " all bac pro the exp ' <an - fn> ' thr the gen def - tio of op1 and op1 , to det the equ con on the tra exa sta .
the res con is tha the tra exa sta mus mat the exp ' <an - fn> f r12 - x r12 - 123 d x ' ( her r12 and r12 sta for two dis rea num , whe r12 mus not be equ to - 123 ) .
thi tog wit the lef - han bra of the exp str , exp whi fea of f 123 gua tha it sat the goa con use - op1
giv thi exp str , the sec ste of the ebg met is str - for .
as in the cup exa , reg the goa con exp use - op1 ( x ) thr the exp str eff res in rep the tra exa sta by a var , so tha the res gen ( tak fro the lea of the exp tre ) is :
whi sim to :
123 the dom the rul mat ( op ( x ) , y ) mat ( x , reg ( y , op ) ) ind tha if the res of app ope op to sta x mat som exp y , the the sta x mat som exp whi can be com by reg the exp y thr ope op .
not tha the reg her inv pro con on pro sta thr pro sol ope .
thi is a dif reg ste fro the sec ste of the ebg pro , in whi the goa con is reg thr the dom the rul use in the exp str .
to sum , thi exa dem aga the gen ebg met of con - str an exp in ter tha sat the ope con , the reg the goa con thr the exp str to det a jus gen of the tra exa .
as in the pre exa , thi pro res in a gen of the tra exa whi is a suf con for sat the goa con , and whi is jus in ter of the goa con , dom the , and ope cri .
in the abo exa , the goa con cor to the pre for a sea heu tha is to be lea .
the dom the the inv bot dom - ind kno abo sea ( e . g . , the def of sol ) and dom - dep kno ( e . g . , how to rec a sol int ) .
to use thi met to lea heu in a new dom , one wou hav to rep onl the dom - dep por of the the .
to lea a dif typ of heu in the sam dom , one cou lea the dom the int , cha onl the def of the use - op1 goa con acc .
for exa , as sug in mit ( 123 ) , the sys cou be mod to lea heu tha sug onl ste alo the min cos sol pat , by cha the goa con to
use - op1 ( s ) not ( sol ( s ) > a
min - cos - sol ( sol - pat ( op1 , s ) )
not tha the exp str in thi exa , lik the dom the , sep int a dom - ind and a dom - dep por .
dom - ind kno abo sea is app abo poi ( a ) in fig 123 , and dom - dep kno abo cal pro sol ope is app bel poi ( a ) .
in the imp of the lex pro ( mit , 123 ) , the two pha of the exp wer con to be two unr sub and wer imp as sep pro .
fro the per aff by the ebg met , how , the two sub are bet see as dif por of the sam exp - gen ste .
one fin poi reg the cur exa has to do wit the abi of exp - bas met to aug the des lan of con .
in lex , as in the saf - to - sta pro , thi met is abl to iso fai com - ple fea of the tra exa tha are dir rel to the exp of how it sat the goa con .
in the con of the lex pro , utg ( 123 ) stu thi iss and dev the sta sub .
sta is abl to ext the ini voc of ter use by lex , by nam and ass ter tha cor - res to the con der dur the reg ste .
for exa , in one ins sta der the def of odd int thr thi reg ste , def it as ' the set of rea num , x , suc tha sub 123 the div by 123 pro an int ' .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
123 . 123 rel met for str lea
the are a num of add sys tha lea pro sol str by ana sin exa of suc sol . 123 the sys ( e . g .
fik et al . , 123 utg , 123 min , 123 mah , 123 ) , whi we mig cal str - lik sys , can all be vie as sys tha lea a goa con of the fol for : ' the set of pro sta suc tha app a giv ope seq , os , yie a fin sta mat a giv sol pro , p . ' sin the sys are tun to thi sin goa con , and are not int to lea oth for of con - cep , the typ do not rep the goa con and exp dec .
how , the do rep the sol pro , p , exp , and reg thi pro - ert thr the ope seq os to det an ope def of the ( imp ) goa con .
fro the per of the abo lex exa , the ste tha the per cor to con the por of the exp bel poi ( a ) in fig 123
it is in con the ste of the exp tha lex reg its sol pro ' mat ( x , <an - fn> ) ' thr the ope seq < op1 , op1 > to det the equ con on the ini pro sta .
the str - lik sys do not con the por of the exp cor - res to the sec abo poi ( a ) in fig 123
bec the are tun to a fix goa con , the do not nee to gen thi por of the exp exp for eac tra exa .
to ill thi poi , con min ' s ( 123 ) pro for lea sea heu in two - per gam suc as go - mok , tic - tac - toe , and che .
thi pro ana one pos ins of a seq of mov tha lea to a win boa pos , in ord to det an ope def of the goa con ' the cla of boa pos for whi the giv seq of mov lea to a for win ' .
but min ' s sys has no exp def of thi goa con .
it has onl a def of the sol pro p tha cha a win pos - tio .
for exa , in the gam of go - mok , ( a var of tic - tac - toe ) thi sol pro cha a win boa pos as ' a boa pos wit fiv x ' s in a row ' .
thi sol pro is reg by min ' s pro thr the ope seq for the giv tra exa .
in thi way , the pro det - min tha an eff def of its imp goa con is ' boa pos tha con thr x ' s , wit a bla spa on one sid , and two bla spa on the oth ' .
123 see kib and por ( 123 ) for a tho cri of ana goa reg met for lea sea con heu .
the dis cer req for reg to suc : tha the ope be inv , and tha the rep lan be abl to exp goa reg pro .
per and res iss
the pre sec pre a gen met for exp - bas gen - tio , and ill its app to sev gen tas .
thi sec sum - mar som gen poi reg exp - bas gen , and con - sid a num of out res iss .
to sum , exp - bas gen uti a dom the and kno of the goa con to gui the gen pro .
by doi so , the met is abl to pro a val gen of the tra exa , alo wit an exp tha ser as a jus for the gen .
the ebg met int her uni mec for exp - bas gen tha hav bee pre rep for a var of tas dom .
the gen of the ebg met ste fro the fac tha the goa con , dom the , and ope cri are mad exp inp to the met , rat tha ins imp wit the met .
123 per on exp - bas gen
sev per on exp - bas gen , and on the ebg met in par , are use in und the str and wea :
ebg as the - gui gen of tra exa .
ebg can be see as the pro of int or per a giv tra exa as a mem of the goa con , bas on a the of the dom .
sol ' s ( 123 ) ear wor on lea act seq in the gam of bas sha thi vie on gen .
thi is the per str in the abo sec , and it hig the cen of the goa con and dom the .
it als hig an imp fea of ebg : tha lea dep str on wha the lea alr kno .
one con of thi is tha the deg of gen pro for a par tra exa wil dep str on the gen wit whi the rul in the dom the are exp .
a sec con is tha the lea sys can imp its lea per to the deg tha it can lea new rul for its dom the .
ebg as exa - gui ope of the goa con .
one can als vie ebg as the pro of ref the goa con in ter tha sat the ope - tio cri , wit the dom the pro the mea for ree the goa con .
giv thi per , one won why tra exa are re - qui at all .
in pri , the are not .
mos ' s ( 123 ) foo sys ope gen adv abo how to pla the car gam of hea , wit con spe exa tha app tha adv .
sim , kel ( 123 ) des a pro of con ope , by whi a seq of tra is app to
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
the goa con in sea of a ref tha sat the ope cri , wit the gui of spe tra exa .
how , tra exa can be cri in gui the lea to con rel - van tra of the goa con .
for ins , con the cup lea tas as des in sec 123 , whe a fun def of cup is ree in str ter for use by a vis sys rec cup .
a sys tha ref - mul the fun def of cup in str ter , wit the gui of tra exa , amo to a sys for pro all pos str def for cla of cup ( i . e . , for des all pos cla of cup ) .
sin the are so man pos des for cup , and sin so few of the are act enc in the wor , the lea sys cou eas was its eff lea str def cor to cup tha wil nev be see by the vis sys ! 123 tra exa thu pro a mea of foc the lea on for - mul onl con des tha are rel to the env in whi it
ebg as ref / ope / ded fro wha is alr kno .
the abo par sug tha exp - bas gen doe not lea to acq tru ' new ' kno , but onl ena the lea to ref / ope / ded wha the lea alr kno imp .
whi thi sta - men is tru , it is som mis .
con , for exa , the tas of lea to pla che .
onc one is tol the rul of the gam ( e . g . , the leg mov , and how to rec a che ) , one kno in pri eve the is to kno abo che - eve the opt str for pla che fol ded fro the rul of the gam .
thu , alt the ebg met is res to com the ded con of its exi dom the , thi kin of lea is oft non ( as is the cas for lea che str ) .
nev , it is a sig lim tha ebg is hig dep upo its dom the .
as dis bel , fur res is nee to ext the met to gen tas in whi the dom the is not suf to ded inf the des con .
123 , 123 res iss
123 . 123 imp the pro
as the abo dis poi out , one imp ass of ebg is tha the
123 of cou inf abo wha typ of cup are to be enc by the vis sys als cou be pre in the ope cri , sin thi inf rel to the use of the con def - tio for the rec tas .
thi inf , how , may not be eas des in the dec for req by the ope cri .
dom the is suf to pro tha the tra exa is a mem of the goa con tha is , tha the inf gen fol ded ( eve if rem - ly ) fro wha the lea alr kno .
alt thi ass is sat in eac of the exa pro pre abo , and alt the are int do - mai in whi thi ass is sat ( e . g . , che , cir des ( mit et al . , 123 ) ) , for the maj of rea - wor lea tas it is unr to ass tha the lea beg wit suc a str the .
for bot the saf - to - sta dom and the cup dom , it is eas to ima mor rea exa for whi the re - qui dom the is ext com , dif to des , or sim unk .
for gen pro suc as inf gen rul for pre the sto mar or the wea , it is cle tha ava the of eco and met are ins to pro abs pre rul .
thu , a maj res iss for exp - bas gen is to dev met tha uti imp dom the to gui gen , as wel as met for imp imp the as lea pro .
the pro of dea wit imp the can be bro dow int sev cla of pro :
the inc the pro .
the sto mar and wea pre exa abo bot ill the inc the pro .
the iss her is tha suc the are not com eno to pro tha the tra exa is a mem of the goa con ( e . g . , to pro why a par tra exa sto has dou ove a twe mon per ) .
how , eve an inc the mig all con - str pla exp sum lik lin bet fea of the tra exa and the goa con .
for exa , eve a wea the of eco all one to sug tha the ' cas on han ' of the com may be rel - van to the goa con ' sto tha dou ove a twe mon per ' , whe the ' mid ini of the com pre ' is pro an irr fea .
thu , inc the tha con onl inf abo pla cau - eff rel - tio , wit onl qua rat tha qua ass , can sti pro im - por gui in gen .
met for uti and ref suc inc the wou con a maj ste for in und exp - bas
the int the pro .
a sec cla of imp the inc tho whi are com , but for whi it is com pro to con ex - pla in ter of the the .
for ins , qua phy con a fai com the tha wou be ina for gen exp in the saf - to - sta pro - gen the nec exp in ter of qua phy is cle int .
sim , alt the rul of che con - sti a dom the suf to exp why any giv mov is goo or bad , one wou nev use thi the to exp why the ope mov ' paw to kin fou ' is a mem of the goa con ' mov tha lea to a win or dra for whi ' .
in fac ,
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
thi the of che is int for exp why nea any mov is goo or bad .
hum ten to res to thi pro by con mor abs , tra the tha are app to the und int the .
in che , for exa , the lea mig for a mor abs the tha inc app - ima ass suc as ' the is no thr to the kin if it is sur by man fri pie ' ( tad , 123 ) .
suc app , abs the can be tra - tab eno and acc eno to ser as a use bas for cre and lea fro exp .
dev com met tha can con suc abs the , and tha can jud whe the can saf be app , is a pro for fur
the inc the pro .
a thi dif ari in the fro whi inc sta can be der .
the dom the in the saf - to - sta pro pro one exa of suc a the .
whi thi the has a def rul for inf the wei of an end tab , it als has a rul for com wei fro the kno den and vol .
thu , the the wil con two dif wei for a giv end tab pro tha its den and vol are kno , and pro tha the are inc wit the def ass abo its wei .
in suc cas , it is pos to con inc exp for a sin tra exa - ple .
fur , if two dif tra exa of the sam con are exp in inc ter ( e . g . , by uti one def ass for one exa , and som oth ass for the sec exa ) , dif wil cer - tai ari in mer the res gen .
bec of thi , and bec def ass are com in the of man dom , the pro of dea wit inc the and inc exp is als an imp one for fut res .
123 . 123 com exp - bas and sim - bas met
whi ebg inf con def ded fro a sin exa , sim - bas met inf con def ind fro a num of tra ex - amp .
it see cle des to dev com met tha wou uti bot a dom the and mul tra exa to inf con def .
thi kin of com app to gen wil pro be ess in do - mai whe onl imp the are ava .
alt few res hav bee ach in com exp - bas and sim - bas met , a num of res hav beg to con thi iss .
leb ( leb , 123 ) is exp met for com sim - bas met and exp - bas met in his uni sys .
uni ex - ami a dat of the vot rec of con , sea for emp , sim - bas gen ( e . g . , mid wes con vot in fav of far sub ) .
the sys the att to ver the emp gen
by exp the in ter of a dom the ( e . g .
exp how mid con - gre sat the goa con ' peo who fav far sub ' ) .
thi ap - pro has the adv tha the sim - bas tec can be use to gen a can set of pos gen fro a lar num of pot noi tra exa .
onc suc emp gen are for , exp - bas met can hel pru and ref the by usi oth kno in the
whe leb ' s app inv app sim - bas gen fol by exp - bas met , an alt app is to fir app exp - bas met to eac tra exa , the to com the res gen exa usi a sim - bas gen tec .
con , for exa , usi the ver spa met to com the res of exp - bas gen of a num of tra exa ( mit , 123 ) .
sin the exp - bas gen of a pos tra exa con a suf - cie con for the goa con , thi can be use as a gen pos exa - ple to ref ( gen ) the spe bou set of the ver spa .
sim , one cou ima gen neg tra exa usi exp - bas gen , by exp why the are not mem of the goa con .
the res gen neg exa cou the be use to ref ( spe ) the gen bou set of the ver spa .
thu , whi thi com met sti suf - fer the mai dis of sim - bas met ( i . e . , it mak ind lea bas on its gen lan , whi it can jus ) , it con mor rap on a fin con def bec it emp ebg to gen eac tra -
ked - cab ( 123 , 123 ) pro an alt met for com the res of exp - bas gen fro mul tra exa .
thi met , pur - dir ana , inv con an exp of one ex - amp by ana wit an exp of a fam exa , the com the two exp to pro a gen con def bas on bot .
giv exp - tio for two dif exa , the pro sys com the exp as fol : com por of the two exp rem una in the com - bin exp .
dif por eit bec dis sub in the com exp , or are gen to the nex mor spe com sub in the exp .
for exa , giv an exp tha a blu , cer mug is a cup , and a sec exa of a whi sty cup , the exp - tio of the fir exa is use to con by ana an exp for the
123 the ver spa met ( mit , 123 ) is a sim - bas gen met bas on sum - mar the alt pla con def by mai two set : the ' spe ' set con the set of mos spe con def con wit the obs dat , and the ' gen ' set con the mos gen con def con wit the dat .
all oth pla con def lie bet the two set in the gen - to - spe ord ove con def .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
sec exa .
the two res exp may dif in how the exp tha the two exa cup are gra ( ass the fir exa cup is gra bec it has a han , whe the sec is gra bec it is con ) .
in thi cas , a gen of the two exp wou inc a dis , tha eit the con sha , or a han , mak it gra .
tha , alo wit the com fea of the two obj in the com exp str lea to the gen tha cup inc obj whi are con up - war , hav a fla bot , are lig , and hav eit a con sha or a han .
alt - nat , the com exp wou ret onl the nex mos - spe com sub , gra , whi wou lea to a sli mor gen , yet les ope , def of a cup .
thu , thi met of com exp of mul exa pro a pri met for int dis whe nee int the com gen of the two exa .
thr met dis abo for com sim - bas and exp - bas gen off dif adv .
the fir met use sim - bas gen to det emp gen whi may the be val and ref by exp - bas met .
the sec met in - vol emp a sim - bas met to com the res of exp - bas gen fro mul exa .
it suf the dis tha thi com of met sti pro unj gen .
the thi met mer the exp of mul exa in ord to pro a com gen tha is jus in ter of the mer exp .
mor res is req on the and oth pos met for emp exp - bas met whe mul tra exa are ava .
123 . 123 for gen tas
the abo dis foc on res iss wit the fra of exp - bas gen .
an equ imp set of res iss has to do wit how suc met for gen wil be use as sub of lar sys tha imp the per at som giv tas .
as our und of gen met adv , que abo how to con per sys tha inc gen mec wil bec inc
one key iss to con in thi reg is how gen tas are ini for - mul .
in oth wor , whe do the inp to the ebg met ( the goa con , the dom the , the ope cri ) com fro ? is it pos to bui a sys tha aut for its own gen tas and the inp ? is it pos to bui lea sys tha aut shi the foc of att fro one lea pro to the nex as req ? wha kin of kno mus be tra bet the per sys and the lea sys to ena the aut for of gen tas ?
aga , lit wor has bee dev to the iss .
the soa sys ( lai et al . , 123 , lai et al . , 123 ) is one exa of a lea sys tha for its own gen tas .
eac tim tha soa enc and sol a sub , it for the gen pro of inf the gen con und whi it can reu the sol to thi sub .
soa the uti a tec clo rel to exp - bas gen , cal imp gen ( lai et al . , 123 ) , to inf the sub pre .
a sec res eff whi con the pro of for lea tas is kel ' s res on con lea ( kel , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in thi wor , kel sug how a pro sol sys cou gen pro suc as tho add by the lex sys .
in par , he sho how the tas of lea the goa con use - op1 ari as a sub in the pro of pla to imp per at sol cal pro .
by rea fro a top - lev goa of imp the eff of the pro sol , as wel as a dec des of the pro sol sea sch , the met der the sub of int a fil to pru the sea mov tha it con .
the def of thi fil inc the spe tha it is to all onl pro sol ste tha are ' use ' ( i . e . , tha lea tow sol ) .
the sub of int thi fil lea , in tur , to the pro of ope the def of ' use ' ( i . e . , to the sub cor to the lex gen tas ) .
rec wor by ked - cab ( 123 ) als add the pro of for lea tas .
in thi wor , ked - cab pro a sys to aut for - mul def of goa con in the dom of art .
in par , the pro sys der fun def of art ( e . g . , cup ) fro inf - mat abo the pur for whi age use the ( e . g . , to sat the thi ) .
giv two dif pur for whi an age mig use a cup ( e . g . , as an orn - men , ver to sat thi ) , two dif fun def can be der . 123 to der the fun def of the art , the pro sys fir com a pla of act tha lea to sat the age ' s goa .
for exa , if the age ' s goa is to sat thi , the thi pla mig be to pou the liq int the cup , gra the cup wit the liq in ord to lif , and fin dri the liq .
in ord to be use as par of thi pla , the art mus sat the pre of tho pla act in whi it is inv .
the pre for the fun def of a cup : an ope - ves , whi is sta , gra , lif .
thu , for - mul fun def of art is acc by ana the rol tha the art pla in fac the goa of som age .
123 thi ext win ' s wor ( see sec 123 ) , in tha it can der its own goa con fro a giv
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
123 . 123 usi con kno to sol the gen tas
abo we hav dis som app to aut for lea tas , giv kno of the per tas for whi the lea tak pla .
in cas whe the lea for its own lea tas , inf abo how and why the tas was for can pro imp gui in sol the lea tas .
kel ' s ( 123 ) met sys pro an exa of how suc inf can be use in gui lea .
lik lex , met add the lea tas of ope the goa con use - op1
it tak as inp a pro rep of the per tas to be imp ( the cal pro sol ) , a spe of the per obj to be ach ( ' min pro sol tim ' ) and kno of the per pla ( sea spa pru via fil ) , whi is a rec of how the ope - tio tas was ori for .
met use thi add kno abo the con in whi its lea tas was for to gui its sea for an ope tra of the goa con .
spe , it exe the cal pro sol usi the ini ( and sub int ) def of the goa con to col dia inf whi aid in ope the goa con if per obj are not sat .
in eff , the per tas and per obj inp req by met ela on the ope cri req by the ebg met .
ins of eva ope in ter of a bin - val pre ove con - cep def ( as in ebg ) , met eva the deg of ope of the con def in rel to the per tas and obj .
thi abi to mak a mor sop ana of ope ena met to mak imp dis amo alt con def .
for exa , bec met use app ( non tru - pre ) tra to mod the goa con , it can gen con def tha onl app the goa con - cep .
in suc cas , met is abl to det whe suc an app con def is des bas on the deg to whi it hel imp the per -
as the fir sec of thi pap dem , exp - bas gen met off sig pro in att to bui com mod of lea sys .
sig pro has bee mad in und exp - bas gen , esp for pro in whi the lea pos a com and cor the .
as the fin sec ill , muc mor rem to be dis abo how a lea can use wha it alr kno to gui the acq of new
the per on exp - bas gen rep her has ari fro dis ove a per of tim wit a num of peo in the mac lea gro at rut and els .
dis wit the fol peo hav bee par use in for the ide pre her : ale bor , ger dej , tho die , tho mcc , sri mah , jac mos , mic sim , pra tad , pau utg , and kei wil .
we als tha the fol peo for pro use com on an ear dra of thi pap : pat lan , sri mah , jac mos , lou ste , pra tad , and kei wil .
thi mat is bas on wor sup by the def adv res pro - jec age und res con n12 - 123 - k - 123 , by the nat sci fou und gra dcs - 123 and mcs - 123 , by the nat ins of hea und gra rr - 123 , by gte und gra gte , and by a rut uni gra fel .
the vie and con con in thi doc - men are tho of the aut and sho not be int as nec rep - ing the off vie or pol of the spo .
the app des dej ' s res on exp - bas gen .
in par , it cas the wor on lea sch for sto und in ter of the ebg met .
in add to thi pro , the has bee a gre dea of rec res on exp - bas gen , inc ( dej , 123 ell , 123 moo , 123 o ' ror , 123 raj , 123 sch , 123 seg , 123 sha , 123 sim , 123 wat , 123 wil , 123 ) .
dej ( 123 , 123 ) dev one of the ear suc exp - bas gen sys as par of his res on exp sch acq .
dej is int in the pro of lea sch for use in nat lan sto und .
dej ' s sys tak as inp an exa sto and pro as out a gen sch rep the ste act seq tha is ins in the sto .
for exa , the sys can pro the fol sto ( ada fro g .
dej , per com , nov 123 , 123 ) :
fre is mar ' s fat .
fre is ric .
mar wea blu jea .
joh app mar .
he poi a gun at her .
he tol her to get int his car .
joh dro mar to the hot .
he loc her in his roo .
joh cal fre .
he tol fre he had mar .
he pro not to har her if fre gav him $12 , 123 at tre ' s res .
fre del the mon .
mar arr hom in a tax .
mit , r . m .
kel and s . t .
ked - cab
it the pro as out a gen sch for kid .
the kid sch con onl the rel det of the kid ( e . g . , tha thr peo are inv : per a who wan mon , per b who has mon and per c who is val by per b ) , but non of the irr det ( e . g . , tha per c wea blu jea ) .
dej ' s sys use a gen met tha clo par the ebg met .
alt the is no dir cou to the goa con in dej ' s sys , the goa con can be tho of as ' the cla of act seq tha ach per goa x for act y . ' for the kid sto , the act ' s per goa is ' att of wea . ' the sys con an exp for how the act in the sto lea to the kid ' s ' att of wea ' as a by - pro of the sto - und pro .
dur the sto par , dat dep lin are cre to con act in the sto wit the inf rul tha are use by the par in int the act .
the set of inf rul con a dom the for dej ' s sys , and inc kno abo the goa and pla of hum act , as wel as cau kno use to set up and ver exp for fut act .
the net of all the dat dep lin cre dur the sto par is cal an inf jus net , and cor to an exp for the act seq .
gen of the inf jus net is car out by rep gen ent for the spe obj and eve ref in the net .
as wit the ebg met , the ent in the inf jus net are gen as far as pos whi mai the cor of the dat dep lin . 123 the a new sch is con fro the net .
the iss of ope ent int the pro of det an app lev of gen for the sch con fro the net .
sho , for exa , a gen sch be cre to des the kid act seq or the mor gen act seq rep bar - for - mon or bar - for - wea ? all of the sch exp the act in the exa sto .
dej cit sev cri to use in det the lev of gen at whi to rep - sen the new sch ( dej , 123 ) .
the cri inc suc con as : 123 ) wil the gen sch be use in pro sto in the fut , or doe the sch sum an eve tha is unl to rec ? 123 ) are the pre for sch act com ach ? 123 ) wil the new sch rep a mor eff met of ach per goa tha exi sch ? not tha the sch gen cri rou cor to the ope cri use in the ebg met .
bec the gen sch are sub use for a sto - und tas , the ope cri per to tha tas .
123 it is unc whe the sys reg its equ of the goa con thr the inf
tab 123
the wea acq sch gen pro : lea abo way to ach wea
* goa con : the cla of act seq ( i . e . , a gen sch ) by whi act x can ach
wea - acq - act - seq al , a12 , .
. , an> , x )
not ( wea ( x , s12 ) ) a wea ( x , exe ( x , <al , a12 , .
. , an> , s12 ) )
<al , a12 , .
, an> is an act seq x is the act s12 is the act ' s cur sta and exe - cut ( a , b , c ) ret the sta res fro the exe of act seq b by act a in sta
tra exa : the kid sto :
fat - of ( fre , mar ) a wea ( fre )
a des ( joh ) a wea ( mar , blu - jea ) a app ( joh , mar , s12 ) a poi - gun - at ( joh , mar , s12 )
a exc ( fre , joh , $12 , mar , s12 )
dom the : rul abo hum int , and kno abo hum goa , int ,
fat - of ( per 123 , per ) - lov ( per 123 , per 123 ) a val ( per 123 , per )
wea ( per ) - > has ( per , $12 ) exc ( per 123 , per , obj 123 , obj )
not ( has ( per , obj ) ) a val ( per , obj ) a not ( has ( per , obj ) ) a val ( per , obj ) a has ( per , obj ) a has ( per , obj )
ope cri : acq gen ( i . e . , the gen sch ) mus sat the re -
qui for fut use in sto - und ( see tex ) .
a gen of tra exa ( i . e . , a gen sch ) tha is a suf con def - tio for the goa con ( i . e . , tha is a spe of the wea acq sch ) and tha sat the ope cri .
tab 123 sum the exp - bas gen pro add by
the exp sch acq res .
