ove the pas 123 yea the stu of mac lea has gro fro the eff of a han of com en - gin exp whe com cou lea to pla gam , and a eld of sta tha lar ign com con , to a bro dis tha has pro fun sta - com the of lea pro , has des lea alg tha are rou use in com sys - tem for spe rec , com vis , and a var of oth tas , and has spu off an ind in dat min to dis hid reg in the gro vol of onl dat .
thi doc pro a bri and per vie of the dis tha has eme as mac lea , the fun que it add , its rel to oth sci and soc , and whe it mig be hea .
key : mac lea
123 den que
a sci eld is bes den by the cen que it stu .
the eld of mac lea see to ans the que
how can we bui com sys tha aut imp wit exp , and wha are the fun law tha gov all lea pro ?
thi que cov a bro ran of lea tas , suc as how to des aut mob rob tha lea to nav fro the own exp , how to dat min his med rec to lea whi fut pat wil res bes to whi tre , and how to bui sea eng tha aut cus to the use int .
to be mor pre , we say tha a mac lea wit res to a par - ula tas t , per met p , and typ of exp e , if the sys rel imp its per p at tas t , fol exp e .
dep on how we spe t , p , and e , the lea tas mig als be cal by nam suc as dat min , aut dis , dat upd , pro by
mac lea is a nat out of the int of com sci and sta .
we mig say the den que of com sci is how can we bui mac tha sol pro , and whi pro are inh tra / int ? the que tha lar den sta is wha can be inf fro dat plu a set of mod ass , wit wha rel ? the den que for mac lea bui on bot , but it is a dis que .
whe com sci has foc pri on how to man pro com , mac lea foc on the que of how to get com to pro the ( fro exp plu som ini str ) .
whe sta - tic has foc pri on wha con can be inf fro dat , mac lea inc add que abo wha com arc and alg can be use to mos eff cap , sto , ind , ret and mer the dat , how mul lea sub can be orc in a lar sys , and que of com tra .
a thi eld who den que is clo rel to mac lea is the stu of hum and ani lea in psy , neu , and rel eld .
the que of how com can lea and how ani lea mos pro hav hig int ans .
to dat , how , the ins mac lea has gai fro stu of hum lea are muc wea tha tho it has gai fro sta and com sci , due pri to the wea sta of our und of hum lea .
nev , the syn bet stu of mac and hum lea is gro , wit mac lea alg suc as tem dif lea now bei sug as exp for neu sig obs in lea ani .
ove the com yea it is rea to exp the syn bet stu of hum lea and mac lea to gro sub , as the are clo nei in the lan of cor sci que .
oth eld , fro bio to eco to con the als hav a cor int in the que of how sys can aut ada or opt to the env , and mac lea wil lik hav an inc exc of ide wit the eld ove the com yea .
for exa , eco is int in que suc as how dis col of sel - int ind may for a sys ( mar ) tha lea pri lea to par - opt all for the gre com goo .
and con the , esp ada con the , is int in que suc as how a ser - con sys can imp its con str thr exp .
int , the mat mod for ada in the oth eld are som dif fro tho com use in mac lea , sug sig pot for cro - fer of mod and the .
the fol sec dis the sta of the art of mac lea , a sam of suc app -
tio , and a sam of ope res que .
123 sta of mac lea
her we des som of the pro in mac lea , as wel as ope res que .
123 app suc
one mea of pro in mac lea is its sig rea - wor app , suc as tho lis bel .
alt we now tak man of the app for gra , it is wor not tha as lat as 123 the wer alm no com app of mac lea .
spe rec .
cur ava com sys for spe rec all use mac lea in one fas or ano to tra the sys to rec spe .
the rea is sim : the spe rec acc is gre if one tra the sys , tha if one att to pro it by han .
in fac , man com spe rec sys inv two dis lea pha : one bef the sof is shi ( tra the gen sys in a spe - ind fas ) , and a sec pha aft the use pur the sof ( to ach gre acc by tra in a
com vis .
man cur vis sys , fro fac rec sys , to sys tha aut - mat cla mic ima of cel , are dev usi mac lea , aga bec the res sys are mor acc tha han - cra pro .
one mas - sca app of com vis tra usi mac lea is its use by the us pos ofc to aut sor let con han add .
ove 123 of han mai in the us is sor aut - mat , usi han ana sof tra to ver hig acc usi mac lea ove a ver lar dat set .
bio - sur .
a var of gov eff to det and tra dis out now use ma - chi lea .
for exa , the rod pro inv rea - tim col of adm rep to eme roo acr wes pen , and the use of mac lea sof to lea the pro of typ adm so tha it can det ano pat of sym and the geo - ica dis .
cur wor inv add in a ric set of add dat , suc as ret pur of ove - the - cou med to inc the inf ow int the sys , fur inc the nee for aut lea met giv thi eve mor com dat set .
rob con .
mac lea met hav bee suc use in a num of rob sys .
for exa , sev res hav dem the use of mac lea to acq con str for sta hel igh and hel aer .
the rec dar - spo com - tio inv a rob dri aut for ove 123 mil in the des was won by a rob tha use mac lea to ren its abi to det dis obj ( tra its fro sel - col dat con of ter see ini in the dis , and see lat up clo ) .
acc emp sci .
man dat - int sci now mak use of mac lea met to aid in the sci dis pro .
mac lea is bei use to lea mod of gen exp in the cel fro hig - thr dat , to dis unu ast obj
fro mas dat col by the slo sky sur , and to cha the com pat of bra act tha ind dif cog sta of peo in fmr sca .
mac lea met are res the pra of man dat - int emp sci , and man of the sci now hol wor on mac lea as par of the eld con .
123 pla of mac lea wit com sci
giv thi sam of app , wha can we inf in gen abo the fut rol of mac lea in the eld of com app ? one way to thi abo thi is to ima the spa of all sof app , and to rec the abo app sug a nic wit thi spa whe mac lea has a spe rol to pla .
in par , mac lea met are alr the bes met ava for dev par typ of sof , in app whe :
the app is too com for peo to man des the alg .
for exa , sof for sen - bas per tas , suc as spe rec and com vis , fal int thi cat .
all of us can eas lab whi pho con a pic of our mot , but non of us can wri dow an alg to per thi tas .
her mac lea is the sof dev met of cho sim bec it is rel eas to col lab tra dat , and rel ine to try wri dow a suc alg .
the app req tha the sof cus to its ope env aft it is eld .
one exa of thi is spe rec sys tha cus to the use who pur the sof .
mac lea her pro the mec for ada .
sof app tha cus to use are gro rap - e . g . , boo tha cus to you pur pre - enc , or ema rea tha cus to you par den of spa .
thi mac lea nic wit the sof wor is gro rap .
vie thi way , mac lea met pla a key rol in the wor of com sci , wit an imp and gro nic .
whi the wil rem sof app whe mac lea may nev be use ( e . g . , to wri mat mul pro ) , the nic whe it wil be use is gro rap as app gro in com , as the dem gro for sel - cus sof , as com gai acc to mor dat , and as we dev inc eff mac lea alg .
bey its obv rol as a met for sof dev , mac lea is als lik to hel res our vie of com sci mor gen .
by shi the que fro how to pro com to how to all the to pro the , mac lea emp the des of sel - mon sys tha sel - dia and sel - rep , and on app tha mod the use , and the tak adv of the ste str of dat owi thr the pro rat tha sim pro it .
sim , mac lea wil hel res the eld of sta , by bri a com per to the for , and rai iss suc as nev - end lea .
of cou bot com sci and sta wil als hel sha mac lea as the pro and pro new ide to cha the way we vie
123 som cur res que
as the abo app sug , sub pro has alr bee mad in the dev of ma - chi lea alg and the und the .
for exa , we now hav a var of alg for sup lea of cla and reg fun tha is , for lea som ini unk
fun f : x y giv a set of lab tra exa ( ( cid : 123 ) xi , yi ( cid : 123 ) ) of inp xi and out yi = f ( xi ) .
for exa , in tra an ima rec pro xi may be a sin ima , and yi the lab of the obj in the ima .
alg fro sup vec mac , to bay cla , to gen alg - rit may be use to est the fun f fro the dat .
we als hav a use bod of the tha hel cha how acc one sho exp to lea the fun f , dep on the num of lab tra exa ava , ass abo the nat of the dat ( e . g . , whe the exa are dra ind ) , and pro of the lea alg suc as the com of the set of hyp it con .
of cou the are man oth typ of lea pro and ass alg and the - rie , inc uns clu ( e . g . , clu gen bas on the tim ser exp pat ) , ano det ( e . g . , nd unu pat of eme roo adm ) , rei lea ( e . g . , lea to pic goo che mov , whe the onl tra dat is the nal win / los out of the gam aft mak man mov ) , dat mod ( e . g . , nd a sma set of fac tha can be com to rec a seq of hig - dim bra ima ) , etc .
the eld is mov for in man dir , exp a var of typ of lea tas , and
dev a var of und the .
her is a sam of cur res que :
can unl dat be hel for sup lea ? sup lea inv est som fun f : x y giv a set of lab tra exa ( ( cid : 123 ) xi , yi ( cid : 123 ) ) .
we cou dra red the cos of sup lea if we cou mak use of unl dat as wel ( e . g . , ima tha are unl ) .
are the sit whe unl dat can be gua to imp the exp lea acc ? int , the ans is yes , for sev spe cas of lea pro tha sat add ass .
the inc pra pro suc as lea to cla web pag or spa .
exp of new alg and new sub of pro whe unl dat is pro use is an act are of cur res .
how can we tra wha is lea for one tas to imp lea in oth rel tas ? .
not the abo for of sup lea inv lea a sin fun f .
in man pra pro we mig lik to lea a fam of rel fun ( e . g . , a dia fun for pat in new yor hos , and one for pat in tok hos ) .
alt we exp the dia fun to be som dif in the two cas , we als exp som com .
met suc as hie bay app pro one way to tac thi pro , by ass the lea par of the ny fun and the tok fun sha sim pri pro , but all the dat fro eac hos to ove the pri as app .
the sit bec mor sub whe the tra bet fun is mor com e . g . . , a rob lea bot a nex - sta fun and a fun to cho con act sho be abl to lea bet by tak adv of the log rel bet the two typ of lea inf .
wha is the rel bet dif lea alg , and whi sho be use whe ? .
man dif lea alg hav bee pro and eva exp in dif ap - pli dom .
one the of res is to dev a the und of the rel amo the alg , and of whe it is app to use eac .
for exa , two alg for sup lea , log reg and the nai bay cla , beh dif on man dat set , but can be pro to be equ whe app to cer typ of dat set ( i . e . , whe the mod ass of nai bay are sat , and as the num of tra exa ap - pro inn ) .
thi und sug , for exa , tha nai bay sho be pre if dat is spa but one is con of the mod ass .
mor gen , the the
cha of lea alg , the con pro , and the rel str and wea rem a maj res top .
for lea tha act col the own tra dat , wha is the bes str ? ima a mob rob cha wit the tas of lea to nd its mas sli any in the hou , and ima tha it is all to pra dur the day , by vie the sli fro dif vie of its cho , and mov the sli to dif loc wit dif lig con .
wha is the mos efc tra str for act col new dat as its lea pro ? a sec exa of thi pro inv dru tes whe one wis to lea the dru eff whi min the exp of pat to pos unk sid eff .
thi is a par of a mor bro res thr int lea sys tha tak mor act con ove the lea set , rat tha pas usi dat col by oth .
to wha deg can we hav bot dat pri and the ben of dat min ? the are man ben - cia use of mac lea , suc as tra a med dia sys on dat fro all hos in the wor , whi are not bei pur lar bec of pri con .
alt at rst it mig see tha we mus cho bet pri and the ben of dat min , in fac we mig be abl to hav bot in som cas .
for exa , rat tha for hos to sac pri and pas aro the pat rec to a cen dat rep , we mig ins pas aro a lea alg to the hos , all eac to run it und cer res , the pas it alo to the nex hos .
thi is an act res are , bui bot on pas sta wor on dat dis and on mor rec cry app .
123 . 123 lon ter res que
the abo res que are alr bei ene pur by res in the eld .
it is als int to con lon ter res que .
bel are som add res top whi i fee hol the pot to sig cha the fac of mac lea ove the com dec .
can we bui nev - end lea ? the vas maj of mac lea wor to dat inv run - nin pro on par dat set , the put the lea asi and usi the res .
in con , lea in hum and oth ani is an ong pro in whi the age lea man dif cap , oft in a seq cur , and use the dif lea fac and cap in a hig syn fas .
why not bui mac lea tha lea in thi sam cum way , bec inc com rat tha hal at som pla ? for exa , a rob in the sam ofc bui for mon or yea sho lea a var of cap , sta wit sim tas ( e . g . , how to rec obj in tha dar end of the hal ) , to mor com pro tha bui on pre lea ( e . g . , whe to loo rst to nd the mis rec con ) .
sim , a pro to lea to rea the web mig lea a gra set of cap beg wit sim abi - iti suc as lea to rec nam of peo and pla , and ext to ext com rel inf spr acr mul sen and web pag .
a key res iss her is sel - sup lea and con an app gra cur .
can mac lea the and alg hel exp hum lea ? rec , the and alg fro mac lea hav bee fou rel to und asp of hum and ani lea .
for exa , rei lea alg and the pre sur
wel the neu act of dop neu in ani dur rew - bas lea .
and ma - chi lea alg for dis spa rep of nat occ ima pre sur wel the typ of vis fea fou in the ear vis cor of ani .
how , the - ori of ani lea inv con tha hav not yet bee con in mac lea , suc as the rol of mot , fea , urg , for , and lea ove mul tim sca .
the is a ric opp for cro fer her , an opp to dev a gen the of lea pro cov ani as wel as mac , and pot imp for imp str for tea stu .
can we des pro lan con mac lea pri ? can a new gen - era of com pro lan dir sup wri pro tha lea ? in man cur mac lea app , sta mac lea alg are int wit han - cod sof int a nal app pro .
why not des a new com pro lan - gua tha sup wri pro in whi som sub are han - cod whi oth are spe as to be lea .
suc a pro lan cou all the pro to dec the inp and out of eac to be lea sub , the sel a lea alg fro the pri pro by the pro lan .
int new res iss ari her , suc as des pro lan con for dec wha tra exp sho be giv to eac to be lea sub , whe , and wit wha saf aga arb cha to pro
wil com per mer wit mac lea ? giv the inc use of mac lea - ing for sta - of - the - art com vis , com spe rec , and oth for of com per , can we dev a gen the of per gro in lea pro ? one in - tri opp her the inc of mul sen mod ( e . g . , vis , sou , tou ) to pro a set in whi sel - sup lea cou be app to pre one sen exp - enc fro the oth .
alr res in dev psy and edu hav obs tha lea can be mor eff whe peo are pro mul inp mod , and wor on co - tra met fro mac lea sug the sam .
123 eth que
abo are som of the pro tha wil sha the eld of mac lea ove the com dec .
whi it is imp to pre the fut , fur res in mac lea wil alm cer pro mor pow com cap .
thi , in tur , wil lea on occ to eth que abo whe and whe to app the res tec .
for exa , con tha tod tec cou ena dis una sid eff of new dru , if it wer app to dat des all doc vis and med rec in the cou alo wit all pur of dru .
rec cas in whi new dru wer rec fol a num of una pat dea mig wel hav bee ame by alr ava mac lea met .
how , app thi mac lea tec wou als hav imp our per pri , as our med rec and dru pur wou hav had to be cap and ana .
is thi som we wis as a soc to do ? per , i bel the are goo arg on bot sid , and tha as a soc we nee to dis and deb the que in an ope and inf fas , the com to a dec .
rel que occ abo col dat for sec and law enf , or for mar pur .
lik all pow tec , mac lea wil rai its sha of que abo whe it sho be use for par pur .
alt the ans to eac of
the que wil hav a tec com , in som cas the que wil als hav a soc pol com req all of us to bec eng in dec its ans .
123 whe to lea mor
to nd out mor abo mac lea , see the top con and jou in the eld , inc :
int con on mac lea ( icm ) .
con on neu inf pro sys ( nip ) .
ann con on lea the ( col ) .
jou of mac lea res ( jml ) .
thi top jou is fre ava onl at www . jml . org .
mac lea .
pub by spr .
man of the ide pre her hav ari fro dis wit oth .
i wou lik to ack man sti dis wit stu and fac of the mac lea dep at car mel uni , for hel to sha my own vie of the dis of mac lea .
i wou als lik to spe tha avr blu , ste fie , car gue , mic jor , and and ng for hel com on ear dra of thi doc .
it wou be imp to do our wor wit the gen sup of fun .
i am par gra
for res sup fro dar , nsf , nih , the kec fou , and loc mar cor .
