int bra ima exp req ana of com , mul dat .
in rec yea , one ana app tha has gro in pop is the use of mac lea alg to tra cla to dec sti , men sta , beh and oth var of int fro fmr dat and the sho the dat con eno inf abo the .
in thi tut ove we rev som of the key cho fac in usi thi app as wel as how to der sta sig res , ill eac poi fro a cas stu .
fur , we sho how , in add to ans the que of is the inf abo a var of int ( pat dis ) , cla can be use to tac oth cla of que , nam whe is the inf ( pat loc ) and how is tha inf enc ( pat cha ) .
in the las few yea the has bee gro int in the use of mac lea cla for ana fmr dat .
a gro num of stu has sho tha mac lea cla can be use to ext exc new inf fro neu dat ( see ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) for sel rev ) .
alo wit the gro in int and bre of app , the met und the use of cla wit fmr hav con evo and ram ( see ( 123 ) for a his ove ) .
giv the nov of the app , the hav bee few att to org and int ava met in a sin pla .
the pre art str to rec tha sit by pro a tut int to cla met in fmr .
our pre wil be org aro the ide tha cla - bas ana , lik tra fmr ana - yse , can be cha in ter of a ser of spe cho ove a ser of dec poi in the ana pro , sta fro sel of the sci que to be ask and end wit cho amo tes for hyp .
we beg by lay out an ill exa of a cla - bas ana , and the dis the ana pro , exa the set of cho it imp inv , and the alt ava at eac sta .
the hav bee oth pro for a sta pro for usi cla to ana fmr dat ( e . g .
tho wit an emp on a sin typ of cla and req the use of dim red .
we bro thi ide to inc sev kin of cla and als the use of fea sel .
we con wit a dis of the sor of sci que tha may be fru add usi cla , and the way in whi the cho of que imp sub ana dec .
whe pos , we dis str and wea of com opt .
how , it is imp to ack fro the out tha rm gro for suc eva are in man cas not yet ava .
whe pos , we oer rec bas on the res of for pri or con emp tes ( fro ( 123 ) ) .
whe the are lac , we sha som inj imp dra fro our own per exp wit cla - bas ana of fmr dat .
bef ent int the dis of the ana pro , we beg in the nex sec by bri int mac lea cla in the own rig .
123 wha is a cla ?
cla is the ana of reg whe the var bei pre is dis , rat tha con .
a cla is a fun tha tak the val of var fea ( ind var or pre , in reg ) in an exa ( the set of ind var val ) and pre the cla tha tha exa bel to ( the dep var ) .
in a neu set , the fea cou be vox and the cla cou be the typ of sti the sub was loo at whe the vox val wer rec ( see fig 123 ) .
we wil den an exa by the row vec x = ( x12 .
xv ) and its cla lab as y .
a cla has a num of par tha hav to be
fig 123 : an exa whe vox are fea as a row vec ( lef ) and a dat as mat of suc vec ( rig ) .
lea fro tra dat a set of exa res for thi pur sim to how reg par are est usi lea squ .
the lea cla is ess a mod of the rel bet the fea and the cla lab in the tra set .
mor for , giv an exa x , the cla is a fun f tha pre the lab y = f ( x ) .
onc tra the cla can be use to det whe the fea use con inf abo the cla of the exa .
thi rel is tes by usi the lea cla on a die set of exa , the tes dat .
int , the ide is tha , if the cla tru cap the rel bet fea and cla , it oug to be abl to pre the cla of exa it has see bef .
the typ ass for cla lea alg is tha the tra ( and tes ) exa are ind dra fro an exa dis whe jud a cla on a tes set we are obt an est of its per on any tes set fro the sam dis .
thi is dep in par c ) of fig ? ? .
we wil den the tra and tes set by xtr and xte , mat wit res ntr and nte exa as the row , and the exa lab by the col vec ytr and yte .
the mos com use mea of how wel a cla doe on the tes set is its acc .
thi is sim the fra of exa in the tes set for whi the cor lab was pre , i . e .
pnt , whe i ( f ( xi ) , y ) = 123 if f ( xi ) = yi ( the lab of the ith exa was pre cor ) or 123 oth .
as we sha dis in sec 123 , the are sev typ of cla .
how , for rea tha wil bec cle , our emp wil be on lin cla in thi typ the cla fun rel on a lin com of the fea , i . e .
f ( x ) = g ( w12 + .
+ wv xv ) , and the wei wi in tha com are the par to
123 cla ana : an ill exa
in thi sec we wil int an ill exa of a cla - bas stu , whi wil pro a bas for
the exp tha gav ris to our dat was des to tes the que of whe the act as a res of see wor tha wer eit kin of too or kin of bui cou be dis by a cla .
123 the sub was sho one wor per tri and per the fol tas : the sub sho thi abo the ite and its pro whi the wor was dis ( 123 sec ) and cle her min aft ( 123 sec of bla scr ) .
the wer 123 die ite bel to eac of the two cat and 123 exp epo .
in eac epo all 123 ite wer pre , wit rep all 123 epo had the sam ite .
ima wer acq wit a tr of 123 sec , wit vox dim 123 123 123 .
the dat und a typ fmr pre str fro dic les usi spm ( 123 ) .
the ste fol wer vol reg and sli acq tim cor , fol by a vox lin det .
a bra mas was ext aut and use to res vox con in the sub ste .
alt the ori dat con sev sub , we wil foc on a sin one .
eac tri was con int an exa by tak the ave ima dur a 123 sec spa whi the sub was thi abo the sti sho a few sec ear the 123 sec con the exp pea of the sig dur the tri .
eac exa was thu a vec of bet 123 and 123 val , fea val , eac cor to the 123 sec ave sig at a vox .
in eac ave ima onl bet 123 and 123 of the vox wer con in the bra mas .
usi eac tri to obt an exa yie a tot of 123 exa
123 kin pro by rob mas and mar jus , cen for cog bra ima , cmu , who ran the exp .
fig 123 : a cla is lea fro the tra set , exa who lab it can see , and use to pre lab for a tes set , exa who lab it can see .
the pre lab are the com to the tru lab and the cla acc com .
for eac of the too and bui cat .
eac exa vec was nor to hav mea 123 and sta dev 123
exa wer fur gro by whi of the six epo the bel , as dep in fig 123
wit exa in han , the dat was div int a tra and a tes set , wit a goa of lea a cla who tas was to pre the cat of an exa .
as men pre , the par of a cla are lea fro the exa in the tra set , and the cla is the eva on the exa in a sep tes set ( see fig 123 ) .
in the exa stu we div the dat for one sub int exa com fro eit the eve or the odd epo , ass tho in epo 123 , 123 and 123 to be the tra set ( 123 exa ) and tho in epo 123 , 123 and 123 to be the tes set ( 123 exa ) .
giv thi , we tra a gau nai bay cla ( see sec 123 ) and app it to the tes set .
for 123 of the exa the lab was pre cor .
giv thi res , cou we con tha the cla lea fro the tra set was cap of pre the lab of the tes set bet tha cha and , the , tha the fmr fea con rel inf abo the sti cat ? or cou it jus hav don thi wel on the tes set by cha ? in ord to tes the sta sig of thi res , we con the nul hyp tha the cla was per at cha lev ( e . g .
the acc of pre on ave wou be 123 ) and tes it usi the pro we des in sec 123 .
for an acc of 123 wit 123 tes exa the tes yie a p - val of 123 and the nul hyp was
123 cla ana : sta and opt
the for exa , tho pre as an uns nar , can be bro dow int a set of sta , beg wit the con of raw dat int a set of exa and pro tho cho of cla , tra and tes set and int of res .
at eac sta , the res fac a cho amo mul in wha fol we exa eac sta and the cho it pre , as wel as how tho cho int and are con by pra fac .
123 cre exa
cre exa in gen req dec wha to use as fea , how to ext the val and wha we wou lik to pre .
in our ill exa we cho to ave sev trs wor of ima in a sin tri to cre an exa as a sin wor sti map to a sin tri thi is a nat cho .
man oth opt are ava , how .
we cou ins hav use eac ind tr wit a tri as an exa by its , or ave man tri wit wor bel to the sam cat int a sin exa .
one is not lim to usi vox as fea .
we cou use the ave of sev vox in one roi as a sin fea ( ess , the roi bec the fea ) or use vox at a par tim poi in a tri .
the lat is use in ( 123 ) in a sit whe wha dis the act dur pro of amb and una sen is the tim cou of act in var vox act in bot con .
ano pos is to for cre exa dir fro the act sig and ins do it fro dec coe ima , if eac cla can be ide wit a reg .
the que of wha to use as cla lab dep on the pur of the res , but we not tha one is not lim to usi sti cla .
one cou als use sub res or dec in fac of a sti ( e . g .
did the sub get thi rig or wro ? ) .
a par cre exa of thi is the stu ( 123 ) , whe the pre is of whi of two pos ima a sub rep per in a bin riv sit .
in cre exa , the is an imp tra ass wit the num of exa pro .
thi is the tra bet hav man noi exa ( e . g .
one per tri ) or few , cle one ( e . g .
one of eac cla per run ) , as a res of ave ima in the sam cla .
alt the is no har and fas num of exa nec to tra a cla , hav mor is gen bet , to the deg tha the cla can see thr the noi pre ( whe ave eli bot noi and nat var of inf act in the exa bel to a cla ) .
hav mor exa hel in the tra set sid in tha som of the cla we con req a cer num of exa to obt goo est of the par .
con , the are som cla tha are par sui for a sit wit ver few exa , and we dis thi at gre len in sec 123 .
fro the tes set sta , hav mor tes exa inc the pow of the tes for sig of the acc obt .
in sec 123 we wil int cro - val , a pro tha mak ver eci use of exa for bot tra and tes .
one iss to be cog of is the des of hav the sam num of exa in eac cla .
whe thi is not the cas a cla lea alg may ten to foc on the mos num cla , to the det of the oth thi wil als aec the int of an acc res ( e . g .
123 acc may not be ver goo in a sit whe 123 of 123 exa bel to one cla and 123 of 123 to the oth , if it mea the cla sim pre the mos num cla by def ) .
thi bal bet cla can be ach by usi onl a sub of the exa in the mos num cla , rep the pro for var sub and ave
not tha usi con ima as ind tra exa sho be avo , as the str tem aut in the sig wil vir ens tho exa are not ind .
int , it als mea tha hav sev ver sim exa wil not bri in muc new inf .
thi doe not bar us fro usi con ima in the tes set , dep on the pur ( see sec 123 for an exa whe tra exa com fro blo dat and tes exa fro eve - rel dat ) .
non - ind tes exa can , how , be use for the sig tes des ear ( the bin dis out is the sum of the res of ind ber tri ) .
giv tha the are gen man mor fea tha exa , it is oft adv to red the num of fea con to foc on a sub of par int thi is cal fea sel .
for ins , if usi vox as fea , we may jus wan the vox in a par reg of int ( roi ) or the val at a par poi in a tri .
the cru iss to kee in min is tha the cho of fea at thi sta mus not dep on the lab tha wil be use to tra a cla .
to see why , ima a sit whe we are int in pre the ori of a sti gra .
it is acc to res the vox con to tho in vis cor , dem ana .
it is als acc to res the fur to tho sho som act dur tas tri rel to a bas .
wha is not acc to sel vox tha app to dis one ori fro ano in the ent dat .
the rea for thi is tha it is a sub for of let the tes set inf aec the lea of the cla in the tra set , and it lea to opt acc est .
loo at the lab for the ent dat is som cal pee , not tha thi doe not mea tha the cla lab can be use at all in fea sel .
the can be use onc the dat hav bee div int tra and tes set , con sol the tra set , and we dis all pra asp of doi it in sec 123 . 123
an alt pat to red the num of fea a cla has to con is dim red usi a met suc as sin val dec / pri com ana ( 123 ) or ind com - pon ana ( 123 ) on the ent dat mat ( row are exa , col are fea ) .
the com bet the met is tha the tra the ori fea spa ( e . g .
vox ) int a new , low - dim fea spa , yie a new dat mat wit the sam num of row and a sma num of col .
thi is alw wor try and a nec ste for par cla , as we wil see in sec 123 , but not at all gua to imp res , par bec mos dim red tec ign cla lab in the cri ( tho see svd ( 123 ) and pls ( 123 ) ) .
a nal iss to con in the con of exa is tha of pre .
by thi we do not mea the usu pre of dat , e . g .
mot cor or det , a top cov in gre dep in ( 123 ) .
we mea , rat , tha don on the exa , con as a mat wit n row ( whe eac row is an exa ) and v col ( fea ) .
in the exa stu , we nor eac exa ( row ) to hav mea 123 and sta dev 123
the ide in thi cas is to red the eec of lar , ima - wid sig cha .
ano pos wou be to nor eac fea ( col ) to hav mea 123 and sta dev 123 , eit acr the ent exp or wit exa com fro the sam run .
thi is wor con if the is a cha tha som vox wil hav muc wid var in sig amp tha oth .
alt a lin cla can in
pri com for thi to som deg by sca the coe for eac vox , the are sit whe it wil not and thu thi nor wil hel .
our own exp sug eit row or col nor is gen ben and sho be tri in tur , whe com the may som hav adv eec .
123 cho a cla
ear we int the ide of a cla as a fun f tha tak an exa x and gen a cla lab pre y = f ( x ) .
the spe kin of fun bei lea and the ass bui int it is wha dis the var typ of cla .
in thi sec we rev and con the cla mos com use wit fmr dat , as wel as the fac at sta in cho whi kin to use .
we sup muc add det in app a .
the sim cla pro is cal nea - nei and it doe eve inv exp lea a cla fun .
cla of a tes exa is don by ndi the tra set exa tha is mos sim to it by som mea ( e . g .
low euc dis , con the ent fea vec ) and ass the lab of thi nea nei to the tes exa .
var of thi ide inc ave all the tra set exa in eac cla int a sin cla pro exa or ass the maj lab in the k - nea nei ( k odd ) .
bot var min the eec of noi ( if the exa of die cla are all rel clo to eac oth ) but can be sus to des som inf if the is act non - noi var in the exa in eac cla ( e . g .
exa in one cla com in two clu tha are rel dis to eac oth ) .
whe nea - nei cla can wor ver wel if the is a sma num of fea , it mos lik wil not in a sit whe the is a lar num and onl a few are inf .
hen it is gen use in con wit som for of fea sel , as in ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) .
cla tha do lea an act fun div int wha are cal dis and gen mod .
in the for , a pre fun wit a giv par for is lea dir fro the tra dat by set its par .
in the lat , wha is lea is ess a sta mod tha cou gen an exa bel to a par cla ( i . e .
it mod the dis of fea val con on exa cla , p ( x|y = a ) and p ( x|y = b ) ) , whi is the inv via bay rul to cla ( i . e .
yie p ( y = a|x ) and p ( y = b|x ) , and the pre is the cla for whi tha pro is lar ) .
in the typ fmr stu , we gen hav man mor fea tha exa if usi vox in the who bra as fea , its not unu to hav a few ten of exa and ten of tho of fea ( or at lea a few hun , if usi fea sel as des in sec 123 . 123 ) .
the eec of thi is tha it wil gen be pos to nd a fun tha can cla the exa in the tra set wel , wit thi nec mea tha it wil do wel in the tes set ( for a mor det exp of the rea why see ( 123 ) ) : thi phe is cal ove 123
one way of try to avo ove is to use as sim a fun as pos tha doe wel in the tra set .
the mos nat cho for a sim fun is to hav the pre dep on a lin com of the fea tha can dam or inc the inu of eac one of the , jus as lin reg .
to mak the ide of a lin cla mor con , the cla is par by a set of wei w and , for an exa x wit v fea
xw = x12 + .
+ xv wv
the cla pre cla a if xw > 123 or cla b if xw < 123 ( wit tie bro ran ) .
one nic pro of lin cla , bey the sim , is the fac tha eac fea aec the pre sol via its wei and wit int wit oth fea , giv us a mea of its inu on tha pre .
we dis way to use thi , as wel as som cav , in sec 123 .
a mor geo int for thi is giv in fig 123 , in a rat sim two vox bra , wit thr exa of eac cla ( eac exa is cha by the val of the two vox ) .
lea a lin cla is equ to lea a lin tha sep poi in the two cla as wel as pos , the dec bou .
exa of cla tha lea thi are log reg ( lr ) and lin sup vec mac ( svm ) .
whe thi mig see rem fro the gen mod ide int ear , the cla dec of gau nai bay ( gnb ) and fis lin dis ana ( lda ) can be exp in thi man as wel , and thu pro inc in the lin cla cat .
not tha the are man pos lin dis tha per cla the six tra exa sho in fig 123
the var cla hav die rat for cho amo the , whi cor to die den of sep poi as wel as pos .
con als tha , eve for a spe typ of cla , the may sti be man pos set of its par tha lea to equ goo pre in the tra set .
the pro of gui the pro tha set the par to a sol wit des pro sma wei ove , for ins is cal
123 exa of thi wou be to use a ver hig - deg pol to mod poi in a tim ser com fro a low - deg pol wit add noi .
the ver hig - deg pol wou lik be wor at app new poi tha a low - deg
lin dis a
lin dis b
cro - val fol 123
cro - val fol 123
fig 123 : lef : lea a lin cla is equ to lea a lin tha sep exa in the two cla ( vec in a 123 - vox bra ) as wel as pos .
rig : dur cro - val eac of 123 gro of exa tak a tur as the tes set whi the res ser as the tra set .
reg .
bot the rat and the way reg is don for the var kin of cla are des in app a .
all thi bri us to the que of whi cla to use , whi we wil att to ans bas on our exp and a mul - stu com of cla and fea sel met ( 123 ) .
in cas whe the are a lar num of fea ( e . g .
all the vox in the cor ) , gnb is gen inf to lr and lin svm , as the reg in the lat cle hel wei dow the eec of noi fea tha are hig cor wit eac oth .
the dis mos dis if usi fea sel , hen gnb is a use cla for pro tha nee to be rep man tim , suc as per tes , due to bei muc fas to tra tha the oth .
lda nee to be use eit in con wit ext fea sel or wit dim red ( ( 123 ) ) , as oth the are typ not eno exa to est its cov mat rel .
if cho bet lr and lin svm , the are rou equ oth tha for the fac tha the rst len its mor nat to cas whe the are mor tha two cla .
so far , and for the sak of sim , we hav dis cla in a sit whe exa bel to one of two cla but , in gen , we mig hav mor ( sev die sti cla , sub res , etc ) .
mos of the cla des abo wor wit mod in a mul cla sce .
the one exc are the svm cla alt mul ver do exi , mos pac in cur use req you to cre sev two cla pro ( e . g .
eac cla ver all the oth , or all pai of cla ) and com the to pro a mul cla dec .
we des som app to doi thi in app a .
tha sai , oft the obj of int in a mul cla sit is not so muc the raw acc ( do we bel tha hun of typ of obj sti wou be dis bas on fmr act , for ins ? ) as whi cla can be dis fro whi oth , and how .
hen , it mig mak mor sen to con all pai of cla , tra and tes a cla for eac pai dis and pro wha is cal a con mat , a #cl #cl mat whe ent ( i , j ) con the acc of the dis bet cla i and j .
oft thi rev gro of cla tha are har to dis fro eac oth but tha are dis fro ano gro ( e . g .
sev sma obj sti ver ani and hum fac ) .
the are mor com cla , suc as non svm or art neu net , whi can let int - tio bet fea and non fun the dri the pre we wil not dis the at len for two mai rea .
the rst is tha it is unc tha the pro a sig adv in pra per rel to lin cla ( in ext stu or the mul - stu com in ( 123 ) ) .
in our opi thi is mor a ree of the fac tha the num of exa ava is so sma tha of the ine of com rel bet fea .
the sec rea is tha the rel bet fea and the pre bec har to int ( tho see ( 123 ) whi der a cla tax fro the hid lay nod act in a neu net , for ins ) .
thi doe mea tha the cla can be use fru whe the num of fea is sma , in par whe doi inf map as dis in sec 123 .
we des the cla and the rel to lin cla in mor det app a .
123 tra and tes in cro - val
in our ill exa we div the dat in two hal , one use for tra and the oth for tes .
as we lat dis , we wou lik to tra a cla wit as muc dat as pos sad , we can tra and tes on the sam dat if the goa is obt a use est of the cla tru acc , i . e .
the pro tha it wou lab any fut tes exa cor .
fur , usi jus a few exa for tes wil not lea to a goo est : it wil be ino var , as wel as con to a few pos val .
spl the dat in hal to hav mor tes exa , as we did in the exa stu , mea we mig be lea a muc wor cla tha we pot cou wit mor tra exa .
for , the is a pro tha all us to hav our cak and eat ( alm ) all of it too . . .
the pro is cal cro - val .
in its mos ext var , cro - val fol the ste :
lea one exa out , tra on the rem one , mak a pre for thi exa rep for eac exa in tur com the acc of the pre mad for all the exa
thi var is cal lea - one - out cro - val .
alt eac cla tra is tec die , one can exp the to be sim and pre sim , sin the sha so muc tra dat .
hen we tre the acc est obt in thi man as the exp acc of a cla tra on a dat wit all but one exa , fol ( 123 ) .
not thi als pro a sli con est of the acc we exp if we wer to tra a cla usi all the ava exa .
in pra , lea eac exa out can be com exp bec ins of a sin cla we are tra as man cla as the are exa .
one com is a pro cal a k - fol cro - val , whe k is the num of par int whi the dat is div com cho are k = 123 or k = 123 , cor to lea out 123 or 123 of the exa on eac fol .
for , fmr dat are oft nat div in a way tha add all the iss , be it in run or epo wit a run whe all the pos cla or sti app .
our ill dat div nat int six gro , cor to the six epo of sti in the exp eac gro is use in tur as the tes set in cro - val , wit the rem gro use as the tra set ( on the rig of fig 123 ) .
hen we adv the rea to tak adv of tho nat div at lea on a rst att , pos mov to a ner gra div tha sti has the des pro if mor tra exa are nee .
asi fro the num of exa lef out the are oth imp con .
the rst is tha the tra dat in eac fol mus con exa of all cla , as oth the cla for tha fol wil not be abl to pre the abs one .
as men ear , cla sho be bal , i . e .
hav rou the sam num of exa .
fur , exa tha are cor - by bei clo in tim , for ins - sho end up in the sam fol .
oth , the cla may be abl to pre acc for tes exa wit a cor cou in the tra set .
123 . 123 fea sel
in sec 123 we int the ide of fea sel , in sit whe we hav som a pri rea for pic the , e . g .
wis to tes whe vox in a par roi hav inf .
fea sel is oft dee nec in ord to tra cla in dom whe dat hav ver lar num of fea .
why mig it hel ? int , the goa is to red the rat of fea to exa dec the cha of ove as wel as to get rid of uni fea to let the cla foc on inf one .
alm all the fmr dec res rep in the lit use eit fea sel or som oth for of dim red ( ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
fea sel in gen is too vas a top to bro in gre det her , but a use rev of bot ter and the thr of var app is giv in ( ( 123 ) ) .
one dis oft mad is bet sco / lte and wra met .
the for inv ran the fea by a giv cri - eac fea is sco by its , a bit lik a uni tes of a vox - and sel the bes in the ran .
the lat con bro of pic new fea by how muc imp the hav on the cla giv the fea alr sel .
thi can be don by rep tra and app the cla in cro - val wit the tra set .
giv the oft pro com exp of wra met due to the lar num of fea we wil be con sol wit fea sco met .
the are sev gen met for sel inf fea .
in par , fea in the fmr dom are oft vox and the is a des to be abl to loo for cer typ of vox beh , e . g .
is a vox ver sel for one par con or dis bet two gro of con .
hen mos ext pap res to met tha dra fro bot the sou , whi we sum bel .
not tha met
num of vox
tab 123 : cla res usi eac of sev sel met wit eit var xed num of vox ( lef ) or wit the num det usi nes cro - val ( ncv ) ins the tra set of eac fol ( rig ) .
rat are des in ter of vox and con ( cla ) , for cla , but cou be ada for oth kin of fea :
act - thi met sel vox tha are act in at lea one con rel to a con - tas bas , sco a vox as mea by a t - tes on the die in mea act lev bet con
acc - thi met sco a vox by how acc a gau bay cla can pre the con of eac exa in the tra set , bas onl on the vox .
it doe a cro - val wit the tra set for the vox and the acc is the vox sco .
sea acc - the sam as acc , but ins of usi the dat fro a sin vox ( gnb cla wit one fea ) we use the dat fro the vox and its imm adj nei in thr dim ( a cla wit up to 123 fea , cla can be gnb , lda or svm ) .
ano - thi met loo for vox whe the are rel die in mea val acr con
a is die fro b c d , or ab fro cd , etc ) , as mea by an ano .
sta - thi met pic vox tha rea to the var con con acr cro - val gro in the tra set ( e . g .
if the mea val in a is les tha b and gre tha c , is thi rep in
pre det of how the met can be imp and oth alt are pro in app b .
not tha the met abo are , wit exc of sea acc , uni .
the are pro res tha sho tha , in som cir , mul fea sel can wor bet , whi are dis in sec 123
fin , the met lis abo pro ran of vox one mig sti hav to dec on how man of the top - ran vox to use fro the ran for eac met .
for met tha are bas on a sta cri ( e . g .
t - tes of act ) , it is com to use a mul com cri suc as bon or fal dis rat ( 123 ) and kee jus the fea dee sig at a giv lev .
thi is rea but pro if few or no vox are sig ( pos giv the amo of noi and ver sma sam siz ) or the sco pro by the met doe not map to a p - val ( tho non met can sti be use to obt one , see app c ) .
123 . 123 fea sel and cro - val
up til now we hav dis fea sel as a top by its .
oft , how , fea sel is use in con wit cro - val and thi ent par pre .
the rst is tha sel mus hap on the tra set .
as men ear , for eve fol in cro - val we hav a die tra set and thu fea hav to be sel sep for eac fol .
a sec rea is tha , as men ear , the met use in pra ran fea and we sti hav to dec how man to use , unl the met pro a rat ( e . g .
the num of vox whe a t - tes is sig at a cer lev ) .
a typ app is to not com to a spe num , but to ins pro a fea ran by eac met for eac fol .
thi can the be use to obt , for eac met , an acc sco usi eac of the num of vox des ( e . g .
top 123 , top 123 , top 123 , etc ) .
the end pro is a #me #vo tab of acc res , suc as tab 123 ( lef ) for our
if fea sel cou be don pri to cro - val ( e . g .
by sel vox fro one roi , or by som oth met tha avo exa the lab of the tes exa ) , the who pro can be run as if the dat con onl the sel fea .
in thi and the cas whe the met det the num of fea , the end pro is a #me 123 vec of acc res .
an alt to con all num of vox is to let the tra set in eac cro - val sug whi num to pic .
to do thi , we can run a nes cro - val ( ncv ) ins the tra set .
con our ill exa , whi had 123 gro of exa bas on epo .
dur the rst cro - val fol ,
we tes on gro 123 and tra on gro 123 - 123
usi a nes cro - val mea per the cro - val pro des abo ins gro 123 - 123 by tes on 123 and tra on 123 - 123 , the tes on 123 whi tra on 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , etc .
the res for thi tra set is , aga , #me #vo tab of res .
for eac met , thi tab wil yie the num of vox at whi the acc is hig thi is the num tha wil be sel fro the ran pro fro gro 123 - 123
the end pro is a #me 123 vec of acc res , as sho in tab 123 ( rig ) for our sam dat .
123 eva res
the per tra a cla on fmr dat is con wit est tha a var of int can be dec fro it , i . e .
a cla can be tra who tru acc is bet tha tha of a cla dec at ran .
a sig res is thu one whe one can rej the nul hyp tha the is no inf abo the var of int .
est sig is gen don by det how imp a cla res wou be wer the nul hyp to be tru ( thi pro is cal a p - val ) .
the acc on the tes set is an est of the tru acc of thi cla .
for , thi is the pro tha it wil cor lab a new exa dra at ran fro the sam dis tha the oth exa cam fro it can als be vie as the acc one wou get if one had an inn num of exa in the tes set .
hen , how goo an est it is dep on the siz of the tes set .
it is an unb est bec the tes exa hav not bee see by the cla dur tra .
in thi sit the pro of obt the res und thi nul hyp is eas to cal .
it can be vie as the out of tos a coi for eac of the exa to be cla , wit the coi bia ree the pro of lab an exa cor by cha ( 123 in a two cla pro , 123 in a fou cla pro , etc ) .
thu , the p - val und thi nul hyp of k cor lab tes exa is , if we den x to be the num of cor lab exa , sim p ( x k ) und a bin dis wit n tri and pro of suc 123 ( two cla ) , 123 ( fou cla ) , etc if the p - val is bel a cer thr ( typ 123 or 123 ) the res wil be dec sig .
the acc est obt thr cro - val is a com of res pro by cla tra on mos ove tra set , hen we wil tre tha est as if it cam fro a sin cla , fol com pra ( 123 ) .
thi all us to tes it in exa the sam way .
ext the sig tes to mul , ind res is str , in tha one can sim res to a mul com cor cri and adj the sig thr acc .
thi is the sit we hav whe we con the nes cro - val ( ncv ) res , as eac one is the pro of tra a cla usi vox sel wit a die met .
if , ins , we are jus pro a #me #vo tab of res , we cou use the sam app to sim tes all the res in the tab .
thi wou , how , be con , in tha the res for a giv met are cor to som ext thi fol fro the fac tha the hal the vox use by the cla bas on the top 123 vox are als use by the one bas on the top 123 , say .
a com ide to dea wit thi iss is to sel the max res amo all tho obt usi a par sel met ( a tab row ) ; it is oft acc by the mis of tes tha max res for sig in the way des .
to see why thi can be a pro , con a sit whe the cla are usi die num of fea and , in eac cas , hav a tru acc ( ove the und exa dis ) of 123 .
it is pos eve in thi sit tha , at lea for one num of fea , the exp obs acc wil be fai hig thi bec mor lik the sma the dat is .
if we are jus dee the bes num of fea to be the one at whi the max acc is att , we wou pic thi res and pos dee it sig .
hen one pos is to rep the ent tab and the num of exa use , and cor for all of the , at the ris of bei con .
the oth pos is to rep the max acc res and tes it die usi a per tes , as fol .
ass the is no cla inf in the dat , the lab can be per wit alt the exp acc usi a giv cla and num of fea ( thi wou be cha lev ) .
thi is exa the kin of sit whe one can use a per tes , by rep the ent pro of pro a res tab fro a dat wit per lab ( see ( 123 ) , whi rev the use of per tes in cla wit one fun neu app , and als app c for mor det ) .
ove man per thi yie a sam of acc res for eac cel in the tab und the nul hyp but als , mor imp , for any der mea suc as the max of eac tab row .
the p - val und the nul hyp for eac ent of the ori res tab is the fra of the cor sam tha is gre tha or equ to it , and thi app to the max as wel .
the mai pro of res to thi app is its com
123 app of pat cla
we hav bee tre a cla - bas ana as a seq of sta wit cho at eac sta .
one cho tha we hav not yet dir add is per the mos imp : the cho of the ini sci que to be ans .
our foc so far has bee on the use of cla for pat dis .
her , the bas que bei add is sim whe fmr dat car inf abo a giv var of int .
det the ans to thi que is of int , for exa , in cli dia or lie det ( 123 ) .
we can vie tra uni met as ans thi que on a vox by vox or roi by roi bas .
cla bri to the que an inc in sen of det , bot by poo inf acr man vox but als by rel con on spa con or the nee for vox res to be sim .
in add to the que of whe fmr dat car cla inf , the are at lea two oth bas que to whi cla can be app , nam whe or whe is cla inf rep ( pat loc ) , how is cla inf enc and how doe its enc rel to kno rel bet sti ( pat cha ) .
thi sec exa the ext to whi que the que can be tac usi the mac of lin cla and fea sel , as wel as the lim and cav .
for the res of the sec we wil ass fea are vox , as it wil sim dis .
123 pat loc
onc it has bee est tha cla inf is pre in a dat , one may go on to ask whe in the bra thi inf res .
a nat app for add thi is to ask whi vox con mos str and rel to the cla suc .
the are two asp to thi : det whi vox are bei sel and als how the wei aec the cla pre .
whe cro - val is bei use , a par vox sel met can and ver lik wil ran die vox at the top fro fol to fol .
it may com as a sur tha , for man dat , the ove bet the set of vox sel in all fol ver the set sel in an ind fol is fai sma ( bet 123 123 and 123 is typ ) eve if sel a rel lar fra of the tot num of vox ( 123 ) .
thi is not a pro , int , it jus ree the fac tha wha vox are sel con suc inf .
the mig be red , in tha man vox enc the sam thi and a few get pic in eac fol , and the mig be a sma nec sub , pre in all fol .
one pos str for ndi the max sub of vox con inf wou be to sta fro the one pre in all or alm all fol and use the as see in a clu alg tha wou nd vox wit sim res pro acr exa .
a rel iss is whe the inf car by vox is the sam in the set ide by var sel met .
the are two way of con thi iss : one is to loo at ove in sel set , now bet met , and the oth to con whe a giv cla usi die vox set per die ( in par , whe it mak die pre err ) .
for pro wit two cla , mos sel cri wil nd sim vox , as the are man way tha a vox cou res die to the two cla .
in mul pro res sug the are die typ of vox beh and the var vox sel met des ear can pic on die typ ( 123 ) .
hen , if we wis to use cla pre suc as an ind tha the vox set it use con inf vox , it is wis to con die sel met it is als a goo ide to det whe the is any ove bet the vox set sel in all fol by eac met .
giv a set of vox , a die que is whi of tho vox mos str aec cla pre .
the use of lin cla mak it rel sim to ans thi que , as eac vox aec the dec onl thr the mag of its wei , and not tho the int wit oth vox .
app a exp how to get the wei for the var lin cla , as wel as for nea nei cla wit par dis mea ( alt in thi cas the wei are tes exa spe , rat tha the sam for any exa ) , and als sho wha a typ ima of vox wei loo lik .
not tha you can tak thi fur by mul the wei by the ave exa of eac cla , giv you cla - spe ima .
a pra iss if usi cro - val is tha , aga , we hav a die set of vox and thu a die cla in eac fol .
a heu app is to gro all the vox tha wer sel in at lea one of the fol and run the cro - val aga on tha set if the acc is com to wha was obt wit the ori cro - val , the cla wei can be ave acr fol and con .
alt , if the acc usi all the vox ava is hig mor com in pro wit few cla - we can jus con the wei ove all tho vox .
one poi to be awa con lin cla is tha the reg for lr or lin svm wil cau the wei on cor vox to go dow pro to the num of cor vox .
thi is ben whe the cor is mos dri by a noi sou and is the rea why , in gen , bot typ of cla out gnb if all vox are use ( 123 ) ( tho not if cou wit vox sel ) .
how , it is qui
cla acc at eac vox usi var cla
cla wei for a lin svm tra on the ent ima
fig 123 : top : com of acc map obt wit 123 - fol cro - val .
eac row con eig sli fro an acc map , inf to sup , top of eac sli is pos .
the cla use in eac row are sin vox gnb and rad 123 nei sea gnb , lda and lin svm .
on top of eac sli is the num of vox for whi acc was dee sig usi fdr q = 123 , whi are hig in dar red .
bot : cla wei for a lin svm cla tra on the ent ima .
pos tha the wil be vox tha con to the dec but who wei are sma tha tho of oth vox con vox .
not tha , in add to ask whe cla inf is pre , we can als ask whe cla are rep tem as opp to spa loc .
thi dis les com in the lit and app in two die gui .
the rst is to eit sel a fea spa cor to vox at all tim poi in a tri or sim res the tim poi dat is ext fro , as in ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) .
a mor sop app is use in ( 123 ) , whe cla are tra on dat whe cla are cle sep bet blo and the dep as sen of eme of cla - spe pat in eve - rel tes dat .
the iss out mak loc of inf to spe vox les str tha one mig wis and , fur , the use of lin cla mea tha no non rel bet vox can be lea .
the is , how , an alt app to ans the loc que , inf - bas fun bra map ( 123 ) , whi can ame the pro and als add cha que to som ext .
a gen ver of thi ide can be sum as tra cla on man sma vox set whi , put tog , cov the who bra .
one nat can for thi is to tra a dis cla for eac vox , usi onl the vox spa adj to it .
thi is aki to shi a sea on eve vox nei in suc , and is oft ref to as tra sea cla .
com var for the cla are ver of gau cla ( gnb , lda ) or lin svm ( the ori pap use the mah dis , whi is par of the mul gau dis in lda ) .
the res is a bra map whe , for eve vox , we hav the cro - val acc of a cla tra on the nei sur it ( typ , the 123 nei in 123 , alt a wid rad cou be con ) .
thi acc can be con int a p - val usi the ana met in sec ? ? or by usi a per tes as des in sec 123 .
in eit cas , we wil obt a p - val map tha can be thr usi a mul com cor cri , to ide vox nei of sig acc .
we aga hav a cho of whi cla to use , alt in thi cas the tra are die .
giv the rel sma num of vox in a nei , it is now fea to tra mor com cla .
lda is the rst obv cho , in tha a cov mat of vox cap rel bet the , but one cou als att a non cla if mor com rel are hyp .
thi wil pos be mor adv if the are mor tha two cla , alt wit the cav tha it is unl tha act dis all the cla fro eac oth can be fou in a sma reg .
we pro a com of sin vox gnb and sea gnb , lda and lin svm in fig 123 for our ill stu .
whe the are rea sim in the loc of vox dee sig inf , the are als int die bet the map whi we dis in app b .
for ref , the gur als pro the wei of a lin svm cla on eac vox .
123 pat cha
bey ask whe and whe cla inf is rep , cla can als be use to ans the que of how cla are rep in the bra .
it is per her tha cla and oth mac lea met sta to be of gre val .
the wor on inf map in the pre sec can als be con fro the poi of vie of pat cha .
eac nei cla att to nd rel bet the vox in a sma set tha con inf .
as sai ear , giv the sma num of vox , we hav the pos of tra non cla to lea fai com rel .
but jus how com sho one exp the rel to be ? one ext in the ran of ans is the sit in ( 123 ) , whe vox are bar mor sen to one cla of sti tha ano , and thu do not ree an enc of tho sti .
the is no adv in tra a cla tha doe mor tha wei a vot of eac vox to poo inf .
the oth ext is wha ( 123 ) cal a com cod : the inf is in the com com of vox act in die cla .
in bet lie sit whe vox hav ver sel res ( e . g .
ffa or ppa in ( 123 ) ) or vox are sel for gro of cla ( e . g .
sem cat cla tha cor to ani thi ver tho tha do not ) .
thu far , we cho to des the wor don res to lin cla or inf map , bot bec it is sim and a goo sta poi to add cha que .
the are , how , sev rec pap tha tac thi kin of que in mor sop way tha elu a uni vie , and hen we wil cov the onl bri .
the com poi bet the are the wis to cor rel bet sti wit tho in fmr dat , eit des and act cha cla to ree dom inf , suc as suc as mod of neu pop beh or psy div of the sti spa .
on the rst cam , ( 123 ) sho tha a neu net tra to dis exa of eig sem cat lea a rep on its hid lay tha cap a pla tax of the cla and ( 123 ) ,
on the sam dat , tha the abi to dis the cat sti cor wit the abi of the cla to dis the cor cla .
( 123 ) sho tha tha the sim mat of pho sti cor to the sim mat of pat of act whi pro the and ( 123 ) rel per sim of sti to the str of the neu rep .
( 123 ) int hid pro mod , a tec to ide mul cog pro pre sim in the bra wit ove spa act , tak adv of dom inf and cla lab to con the cau ord .
fin , two rec stu lev dom kno to pre fmr act for new sti , som whi can be use to cla by com the pre act to the act of sti in the tra ( 123 ) doe thi for vis sti , usi a mod of the res of neu pop in the vis cor and pre the fmr sig fro the mod pop for eac vox .
( 123 ) lea a mod tha pre fmr act for new wor , bas on the sim in a spa of sem fea to wor for whi fmr act is kno .
in thi pap we hav des the var sta in a mac lea cla ana of fmr dat .
asi fro dis the cho ava at eac ana sta , the int and the pra fac con the , we exp the use of thi kin of ana to ans thr typ of sci que .
the are is the inf abo a var of int ( pat dis ) , whe is the inf ( pat loc ) and how is tha inf enc ( pat cha ) .
we pur foc on lin cla and the dis and loc que , as the are bot bet und and the one mos rea are lik to wan to ans rst .
spa con mea tha som imp pra con had to be lef out of the mai tex .
var app are pro in a lon ver of thi pap ava at htt : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / ~ fpe / res . htm .
sof for per a cla ana ( the pri mul - vox pat ana too ) can be fou at htt : / / www . csb . pri . edu / mvp , tog wit tut and a ver res onl com .
we are wel awa tha the cur fro of res is in pat cha , and pro poi to wha we thi som of the mos tho - pro wor in thi are .
we are con tha , reg of wha pro may com , it wil hav mac lea met at its roo , cla - bas or oth .
