mos lea alg tha are app to tex cat - ego pro rel on a bag - of - wor doc rep , i . e . , eac wor occ in the doc - men is con as a sep fea .
in thi pap , we inv the use of lin phr as inp fea - tur for tex cat pro .
the fea are bas on inf ext pat tha are gen and use by the aut - ts pre exp res on usi suc fea as bac kno for two mac lea alg - rit on a cla tas on the www .
the re - sul sho tha phr fea can imp the pre - cis of lea the at the exp of cov .
mos mac lea alg for tex cat - tio rep doc as a bag of wor .
typ , eac wor is tre as a sep fea .
for exa - ple , a htm - doc mig be cla as the hom pag of a stu if the wor stu occ on the pag .
how , stu wil als occ on man oth pag on the www , inc mos pag of com sci - enc dep .
on the oth han , a sen lik " i am a stu of com sci at car mel - lon uni " is cle ind of a stu hom pag .
it is wor not tha non of the wor tha ap - pea in thi sen are goo pre of a stu hom pag , nor is any sub of the wor , bec all of the are qui com on pag rel mel sch of com sci .
123 wha mak a dif is the lin rol tha the wor hav in
con for inf ext ( ril 123 ) , is abl to pro a lea wit fea tha cap som of the syn str - tur of nat lan tex .
for the abo inp sen - ten , it ext the fol fou fea : i am <_> ,
123 in thi sen , the mos pre wor for a stu hom pag are i and am .
the are qui rel fea for the pro of dis bet stu pag and oth dep pag and , for thi tas , sho not be rem by a sto lis ( see als ( cra et al .
123 ) ) .
<_> is stu , stu of <_> , and stu at <_> . 123 all fou of the are hig ind of stu pag and at lea thr of the are qui unl to app on oth typ of pag .
not tha the las of the , stu at <_> , doe not mat a con pie of tex , but is bas on pre att to the wor stu .
in pre wor ( e . g . ,
( ril & lor 123 ) ) , pro res on the use of suc phr for tas wer obt usi sim thr met to fin the bes cla - ter .
in thi pap , we rep on som exp - the uti of suc ime tha aim at inv phr as fea lea alg , nam the nai bay cla rai and the sep - and - con alg i ~ ipp .
the cas stu is per in a
for two sta - of - the - art
tas on the www .
gen phr fea
aut was dev as a met for aut - cal con dom - spe ext pat cor .
as inp , au - fro an ann tos req a set of nou phr , for tha sho be ext fro the tra the use syn heu to cre lin pat tha can ext the des inf fro the tra doc ( and fro un - see doc ) .
the ext pat res sub - ver or ver - dir - obj ( e . g . , <su tea or tea <di - obj ) as wel as pre phr att ( e . g . , at <no - phr or tea at <no - phr ) .
see ( ril 123 ) for a mor det des of au -
the key dif
bet aut and the rem of the
nee for an ann for all nou sim gen ext phr in the tra cor who syn mat one of the heu .
tab 123 sho thr of the 123 syn heu emp in the cur
123 use ang bra <> to rep
<su j> aux - ver nou nou pre <no - phr
i am <_> <_> is stu stu of <_> stu at <_>
tab h syn heu tha are use for fin phr fea in the sen " i am a stu of com - put sci at car mel uni . "
of wor occ in doc of tha
cla ind of the con .
by doi so , rai - bow mak the nai ind ass .
mor the pro of doc d bel to cla c is est by mul the pri pro pr ( c ) of cla c wit the pro of the pro pr ( wii ) tha the wor wi occ in doc of thi cla .
thi pro is the nor by the pro of the pri pro pr ( wi ) of all wor .
tha can be det
ver of aut - ts as wel as the cor - ing ext pat exa sen " i am a stu of com sci at car mel uni " .
not tha the thi twi in the sam syn heu of tab 123 fir sen usi two dif pre att for of the to the nou stu .
als , the dif ver to be are not dis for the fir how , in gen wor tha occ in dif for wil not be tre in the sam way .
for exa , the sen " her are the stu at our dep " wil not mat the las ext pat of tab 123 , bec the wor stu occ in plu tha the plu ver stu - den at <_> occ mor fre on dep pag tha on stu hom pag .
tha suc sma dif in the use of wor can mak a big dif for tex cla was pre obs in ( ril 123 ) .
a set of exp dem occ or abs of lin phr of the abo for can be suc use for rec rel doc of the ter dom of the 123 mes und con ( muc - 123 ) ( ril & lor 123 ) .
it see lik
in thi pap , we exp the pot use of the gen by aut - ts as phr fea for sta - of - the - art in the fol , we wil bri des the lea al - gor and the tes dom ( cla www pag rel to com sci dep ) , and the dis - cus the res of our exp .
fea wit two
the use of phr
the nai bay cla - fie rai and the rul lea alg rip - per .
the dat set use for our exp is the 123 - uni dat , whi has bee col for the web pro at car mel uni .
mcc at cmu
it est a doc is a mem of a cer cla usi the
is a nai bay cla tas ( mit 123 ) , dev by and
for tex cla -
fro htt : / / www .
edu / af s / cs /
pr ( cld ) : = pr ( c )
as man of the pro
pr ( wi ( c ) are typ -
cal 123 ( hen the pro wil be 123 ) , rai smo the est usi the tec pro by wit & bel ( 123 ) .
a rel pro - - fac tha for tex cla tas man est of pr ( c ( d ) for the win cla ten to be clo to 123 and oft wil be exa 123 bec of flo - poi rou - off err - - is add by pro an opt to inc a cor ter bas on kul - lei div .
thi cor doe not cha of the doc , but pro mor rea pro est .
thi opt was use in our exp to obt bet con est for the pre , whi we use for gen re - gra .
a mor det des of thi smo tec and of rai can be fou in ( cra et al .
123 ) .
( qui 123 ) ) unt
rip ( coh 123 ) is an eff , noi - tol rul lea alg bas on the inc red err pru alg ( fii ~ wid 123 ffi 123 ) .
it lea sin rul by gre add one con at a tim ( usi foi inf - tio gai heu lon mak inc pre on the gro set , a ran cho sub of the tra set .
the - the lea rul is sim by del con - tio as lon as the per of the rul doe not dec on the rem set of exa ( the pru set ) .
all exa cov by the res rul are the rem fro the tra set and a new rul is lea in the sam way unt all exa are cov by at lea one rul .
thu , rip is a mem of the fam - ily of sep - and - con ( or cov ) rul lea alg ( fii 123 ) .
wha mak rip par wel - sui for tex cat pro is its abi to use set - val fea ( coh 123 ) .
for con mac lea - ing alg , a doc is typ rep as a set of bin fea , eac enc the pre or abs of a par wor in tha doc .
thi res in a ver ine enc of the tra ex - amp bec muc spa is was for spe the
pro / the - 123 i / www / nai - bay
tab 123 : cla dis
in the 123 uni dat
abs of wor in a doc .
rip all to rep - res a doc as a sin set - val fea sim lis all the wor occ in the tex .
con - cep , rip use of suc a set - val fea is tha the use of bin fea in con - lea alg , alt rip mak use of som opt .
for the rem of thi pap , we wil con to thi of eac wor ( or phr ) as sep bin fea .
the web pro the goa of the web pro ( cra et al .
123 ) is to ext a com - und kno bas fro the www who con mir the con of cou be ima for the www .
man app suc a kno bas .
for exa , it cou enh the cap of cur ava sea eng tha can onl ans wor - occ que ( e . g . , al - tav ) or tha rel on a man con kno - edg bas abo the con of www pag ( e . g . , ya - hoo ) by ena the to ans que cou x at uni y ? " or " how man stu are in dep z ? " .
cur , a pro - typ sys use an ont of com ent com sci dep ( stu , cou , pro , dep ) and rel bet the ( e . g . , pro x is the ins of cou and the adv of stu z ) .
the pro cra the net and use lea kno to cla pag of com sci dep int tha ont .
in ord to fur the cra wit som lea do - mai kno , a set of 123 , 123 tra doc was fro the www pag of var com sci dep .
123 abo hal of the pag are a fai exh set of pag fro the com sci dep of fou uni : cor , tex , wis - con , and was .
the rem 123 , 123 pag are mor or les ran col pag fro var com sci dep .
the pag are man - all cla int the cat stu , fac , sta , cou , pro , dep , and oth .
tab 123 sho the fre dis of the cla in the dat
: / / www .
edu / afs / cs ,
the oth cla is a ver het cla tha con pag fou at the dep tha are not cla as any of the six rel cla .
not , how - tha one of the ass mad in man cla the pag was tha eac rea - wor ent is rep by onl one pag .
thu , if , e . g . , a fac - ult mem org his per hom pag as a hyp doc con sep pag for his res int , his pub , his cv , and poi - ers to the res pro he is inv in , onl the top pag tha lin the inf tog wou be use to rep him in the cla fac , whi all oth pag wou be cla as oth .
thi is cle not a per sol , as oth peo mig org the sam inf int a sin pag .
thu it can be exp to be har to dis bet cer - tai pag of the oth cla and pag of the rel
a mor det des of thi dat set and of som pre wor can be fou in ( cra et al .
for our exp , all pag wer str of the htm tag , con to low cas , and all dig wer rep wit a d .
aut - ts was run on eac doc - ume and the gen ext pat wer en - cod as one - wor tok and put int a sep fil .
we com thr dif alg : one whe eac wor was tre as a fea - tur , one whe eac phr ( ext pat ) was tre as a fea , and one whe bot wer con - ere as fea .
for the las cas , cor fil wer sim app to pro the inp fil rai , whi for rip we enc eac doc - men wit two set - val fea , one con the wor in the doc , the oth con the tok tha rep the dis phr fea .
the alg wer eva usi the sam pro - dur as in ( cra et al .
123 ) : eac exp con - sis of fou run , in whi the pag of one of the fou uni are lef out in tur .
thu , eac tra set con of the 123 , 123 pag fro mis uni - sit plu the pag fro thr of the fou uni .
the res of eac of the fou run wer com us - ing mic - ave , i . e . , the pre mad for the fou tes set wer thr tog and all eva mea wer com on thi com set .
the fre - que dis of the cla in thi com tes set is sho in the sec col of tab 123
unl not oth , rip was use wit its def opt .
it sho be not tha in thi set , rip sor the cla acc to the inv fre - que and lea dec lis for dis one cla aga all cla ran bel it .
hen , the is tre as a def cla and no rul are lea for it .
in the ex - per wit rai , we mad use of its bui - in ste , and fea
tha occ onl onc wer
in our cas the oth cla ,
tab 123 : ove pre acc
not con .
the exp wit rip wer per wit ste and wit any for of fea sub sel .
lan phr and are cla
in ter of pre acc - tab 123 sho the res rac on the 123 tes set com .
the res are qui div .
for rai , the use of phr inc pre - dic acc , whi for rip , the opp is the cas .
an inv of the con mat ( not sho ) sho tha thi is mos due to an inc in the num of pag tha are cla as oth .
for exa , abo 123 of the pag do not con any by def .
thi dec in the num of pag for whi a com to one of the six rel cla is mad , in som sen , con tha the phr fea - tur are muc mor con in the pre : the ten to app les fre , but som of the are hig typ for cer cla .
thi has a pos - tiv eff on the ove acc , bec rai usi wor - bas fea cla onl 123 pag as oth , whi the tes set con 123 pag of thi cla .
rai usi phr fea cla exa as oth wit sig cla pre in the six rel cla .
thi mea tha the maj of oth pag is mis int one of the six rel cla , thu pro a low ove acc and a low pre , as we wil see in the nex sec .
the 123 min cla .
rai
is con for rip , whi cla - fie 123 pag as oth usi wor , whi cla 123 pag as oth whe usi onl phr .
hen , for rip , who cla acc is abo the def acc ( 123 ) , pre mor exa oth has a neg eff on its per .
in the num of pag cla wit the def cla are als the mai rea for the hug per dif of the two alg .
one rea for thi phe mig be the nat of of the oth cla , whi is lik pag tha are ver sim it mig wel be the cas tha thi pro imp gre dif upo a lin cla suc as rai , whe the rul lea rip is bet abl to foc on the sma dif bet sim pag in dif cla .
it mig als be the cas tha in the exp set ( ste ,
to pag of the rel
to con man
, % ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
123 - - - - - -
fig 123 : com pre / rec ( bot ) and rip ( top ) .
pru of fea tha occ onl onc ) con to thi eff , but it can be its sol cau , bec no ste was use on the phr fea
mor int , how , is a clo loo at the pre - gra sho in fig 123
in thi gra , rec mea the per of cor pre ex - amp of the six rel cla ( not inc oth ) , whi pre mea the per of cor pre - tio in all pre for exa of the cla .
for gen the gra , we ass a con - den sco wit eac pre .
the con as - soc wit a pre of rai is sim the
123 i am <_> 123 <_> is stu 123 stu in <_> 123 uni of <_> 123 pro of <_> 123 <_> is pro 123 i am <_>
<_> is ass
123 man of <_> 123 ass <_> 123 rel <_> 123 aff <_> 123 dep of <_> 123 und <_> 123 gra <_> 123 <_> due 123 due <_> 123 fal <_>
tab 123 : the bes thr phr for eac cla and the ran in a sor lis of fea in the wor
stu : - my ,
tes acc ( was ) : 123
stu : - i am <_> ,
<_> is stu , ins of <_> .
tes acc ( tex ) :
stu : - my ,
<_> is stu ,
tes acc ( tex ) :
est pro of the exa bei in the pre - dic cla .
rip doe not pro pro est - mat , so we ass wit eac pre of rip a con val c_a whe e ( i ) is the num tra exa tha are cor ( inc ) cla - sif by the rul tha pre the cla for thi exa - ple .
123 we cho the lap - est for est the acc of a rul in ord to pen rul tha cov onl a few exa .
we mea the pre of the alg at 123 inc in rec .
a rec lev of 123 is equ to cor cla abo 123 of the 123 exa of the six rel cla .
the pre at a rec lev of n% was mea by fir sor the pre for exa of the rel cla acc to the con sco .
the we wen dow the lis unt num of cor pre exc n% of the tot num of exa of the rel cla , i . e . , unt we had rec n% of the exa of the cla .
the num of cor pre ove the tot num of pre in tha seg of the lis is the pre sco ass wit tha rec lev .
if a rec of n% was rea wit a ser of pre wit ide con sco , we con to pro the lis unt the con sco cha .
hen , in som cas , the poi for the pre / rec cur are not exa lin up at 123 inc .
~ not tha the are not nec equ to the num of exa tha are cor or inc cla - fie by the rul in iso , bec rip lea dec lis .
thi mea tha the lea rul are pro in ord , and onl exa tha are not cla by pre rul can be cla by sub rul .
tab 123 : the rul wit hig con sco for wor , phr , and phr res , wit the num of cor and inc pre the mak on the res tra and tes set .
in bot gra , it is app tha at low rec
the phr fea out the wor - bas rep .
thi sup the hyp tha som phr fea are hig pre for cer cla , but in gen hav low cov .
thi is par obv in the sig dec of the max re - cal for rip if it use onl phr fea .
for the com rep are mor div : rai ass hig wei to wor - bas fea tha to phr fea , so tha the res for the com rep are mos det by the wor .
tab 123 ill thi by sho the top thr phr for eac cla , and the ran in the lis of fea ord by a wei log - odd rat
but eve
bas fea det the sha of the cur , the add of phr fea res in sma imp - men at all rec lev .
the sit is qui sim for rip in the sen tha onl a few of the lea rul act use the phr fea .
how , the phr fre oc - cur in rul wit a hig con sco and mak a cru dif at the low rec end of the gra .
tab 123 sho , for eac of the thr rep , the rul tha was ass the hig con sco bas on its per on the res
it is ver int to obs tha the bes rul for the wor - bas fea set and the bes rul for the wor rep are alm ide .
bot req the pre of the wor my and a sev - dig num ( mos lik a pho num ) .
how , req the pre - whi the wor - bas rep enc of the wor am and stu , req the pre of the phr <_> is stu .
rec tha all doc con sen " i am a stu . " mat bot con , be - cau the phr mat all for of the aux ver to be .
loo at the acc of the two rul sho tha the fir one mat 123 exa in the ent dat set , 123 of whi bei non - stu pag , whi the sec rul mat onl 123 exa , but all of the are of the cla stu .
big vs .
phr
" ph+ w ( rai )
the rul tha was for usi onl the phr fea - tur can be loo int as cla all doc - ume tha con the sen " i am a stu at of <_> . " as stu hom pag .
whi thi rul is sen and acc , it has a muc low cov tha bot oth rul .
it is als int to not tha the thi rul con -
the red con
the red con stu .
app , rip inf gai heu fir pre thi con ove the mor acc phr tha con the wor , bec the wor fea had hig cov - age .
aft it dis tha the phr has to be add is not rem bec rip pru alg onl con the rem of a fin seq of con fro a rul / it sho be rem tha it is no coi tha all thr rul are pre the cla stu .
in fac , mos of the imp at the low rec end of the cur is due to res imp in the pre - dic of the stu cla .
pre / rec for thi cla loo ver sim to the gra sho in fig 123 , whi for the oth fiv rel cla no dra - mat imp cou be obs .
we hav see in tab 123 tha rai att a som low im - por to phr fea in the oth 123 cla , and an inv of the lea rul sho tha onl a few of the top - ran rul for cla oth tha stu - den act use phr fea .
thi may be par due to the fac tha the are too few tra exa for som of the cla .
we pla to fur inv thi on a mor bal dat set , lik the 123 new dat use in ( lan 123 ) .
two oth int
ure 123 are the dif
to mak in fig - in max rec bet
is one of
bet rip and
ori inc red err pru alg , whi - - les eff - - con all con as can for pru ( ffi & wid 123 ) .
awe hav als inv whe the stu cla con a hig per of nat lan tex , but we cou not emp con thi hyp ( usi the cru mea num of phr per cla ove num of wor per cla ) .
fig 123 : pre / rec and rip ( bot ) usi phr ver bi -
cur for rai
rai and rip , and the con pre at the low rec end for rai .
the for - mer is due to fac tha rai les pag as oth , thu inc the per of rec pag in the rel cla at the exp of pre .
we con tha the lat phe is cau by vio - lat of the ind ass of nai bay , whi lea to ove opt con sco for for exa , if the phr <_> is stu occ in a doc , it is qui lik tha at lea one of the phr stu at / in / of <_> wil oc - cur in the sam sen , whi wil und boo the tha thi doc is a stu hom pag .
whi the res of the las sec hav sho tha phr fea can imp the pre of tex cla - at the exp of rec , one can ask whe sim res cou hav bee obt by usi se - que of wor ins of sin wor as fea .
to thi end , we hav rep som of the abo ex - per usi a rep tha con sin wor and pai of wor ( big ) as fea .
the sam phe for rai , we obs the sha of the re - as wit the use of phr : cur is det by the wor - bas fea , but the pre is sli hig .
the two cur at the bot of fig 123 are the rec / pre cur for big ver phr for rai .
the are no not dif sma pea for the phr rep at a rec lev of 123 .
a com of the bes big fea ( ta - ble 123 ) to the bes phr fea ( tab 123 ) sho tha the ave ran of the top thr fea amo the
123 hom pag 123 com sci 123 dep of 123 com sci 123 the dep 123 com sci 123 of com 123 uni of 123 sat sek 123 ric edu 123 in jap 123 res gro 123 aud lat 123 lat pos 123 wil be 123 off hou 123 the cou
tab 123 : the bes thr big for eac cla and the ran in a sor lis of fea
in the big
stu : - my ,
tes acc ( was ) : 123 123
tab 123 : a hig ran rul usi big wit the num of cor and inc pre it mak on tra and tes exa .
app to be les sen ( cf . , e . g . , cla sta and pro ) .
is hig for big , whi the the fea for
for rip , how , the sit
the upp two cur of fig 123 , the phr rep - tio out the big rep at the low rec end .
loo at the rul tha app the , we fin tha , unl the rul of tab 123 , for the big the rul wit the hig con is not one of the 123 top - ran rul of the stu cla in the res fol of the 123 - fol cro - val .
the rul sho in tab 123 is mos sim to the rul sho in tab 123
it is ran num 123 by our con mea .
wor phr big 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123
tab 123 : num of fea con by rai
tur it use is muc sma tha the num fea rip con .
it can be see tha , alt the are sli mor dif phr tha wor , the num are in abo the sam ord of mag , whi the num of big fou in the doc is one ord of mag lar .
our exp hav sho tha the use of lin fea can imp the pre of tex cat at the low rec end .
for the rul lea alg p ~ ipp , add suc fea was abl to boo the pre - cis by abo 123 to mor tha 123 whe rec abo 123 of the 123 tes exa of a tex cat - tas on the www .
alt phr fea req mor eng eff ( e . g . , the syn of bot the tra and the tes doc has to be par ) , the see pro a bet foc for rul lea - ing alg .
thi eff was les rem for the nai bay cla
tha we use .
nev , it sho be not tha we wer not abl to imp the pre of the cla at hig rec the rea bei tha the phr fea typ - cal hav a ver nar foc .
how , it sho als be not tha the tes dom use in our cas stu may not hav bee an ide cho for eva uti of phr fea , bec sig par of www pag do not con nat thu , we pla to fur eva com use tex cat as the 123 new dat reu new col
( lan 123 ) and the ( coh & sin 123 ) .
on the oth han , we are als wor on fur imp the cla acc on the 123 uni - tie dat set use in thi cas stu .
for exa , all app use in thi stu per ver poo on the pro cla ( pre was typ bel 123 ) .
the rea for thi is mos lik the het na - tur of top tha are dea wit on pro pag .
we bel tha thi pro can be sol by loo at the inf tha is con on or nea the lin tha poi to suc pag and pla to inv to tho emp in fur usi tec sim
it is wor to tak a loo at the num of dif fea tha are con by the lea al - gor ( tab 123 ) .
rec tha we use rai wit ste on wor and big , as wel as pru of all fea tha occ onl onc , so the num of fea -
123 exa , one of the mos cha wor for the cla fac and sta is the wor " fax " , whi is mor lik to occ in add tha in the nat lan - gua por of a web - pag .
is sup by a sch - ( j12 - inf ) of the aus fon zur sup by the dar
fsr der wis hpk pro und con ell ril ack sup fro nsf gra iri - 123 and iri - 123
we wis to tha mar sch for gen
the aut - ts dat .
