abs .
lea pro a use too for the aut des of aut rob .
rec res on lea rob con has pre foc on lea sin tas tha wer stu in iso .
if rob enc a mul of con lea tas ove the ent lif , how , the is an opp to tra kno bet the .
in ord to do so , rob may lea the inv of the ind tas and env .
thi tas - ind kno can be emp to bia gen whe lea con , whi red the nee for rea - wor exp .
we arg tha kno tra is ess if rob are to lea con wit mod lea tim in com sce .
two app to lif rob lea whi bot cap inv kno abo the rob and its env are pre .
bot app hav bee eva usi a her - 123 mob rob .
lea tas inc nav in unk ind env and a sim nd - and - fet tas .
123 why lea ?
tra , it has oft bee ass in rob res tha acc a pri kno abo the rob , its sen , and mos imp its env is ava - abl .
by ass the ava of acc mod of bot the wor and the rob its , the kin of env suc rob can ope in , and con the kin of tas suc rob can sol , is lim .
lim esp ari fro fou
kno bot .
a hum des had to pro acc mod of
the wor and the rob .
eng bot .
eve if suf det kno is ava , mak it com - acc , i . e . , han - cod exp mod of rob har - war , sen and env , has oft bee fou to req unr amo of pro tim .
tra bot .
it was ear rec tha man rea rob do - mai are too com to be han efc ( sch et al . , 123 ) , ( can ,
123 thi pap is als ava as tec rep iai - tr - 123 - 123 , uni of bon , dep .
of com sci iii , mar 123
123 ) , ( byl , 123 ) .
com tra tur out to be a sev ob - sta for des con str for com rob in com dom , and rob wer far fro bei rea .
pre bot .
the rob dev mus be pre eno to acc
exe pla tha wer gen usi the int mod of the wor .
rec res on aut rob has cha the des of aut age and poi out a pro dir for fut res in rob ( see for exa - ple ( bro , 123 ) and sev pap in ( mae , 123 ) ) .
rea and rea - tim ope hav rec con mor att tha , for exa , opt - ity and com .
man app hav dro the ass tha per wor kno is ava sys eve ope in the ext whe no dom - spe ini kno is ava at all .
con , tod rob are fac gra unk , hos env , the hav to ori the , exp the env aut , rec fro fai , and the hav to sol who fam of tas .
if rob lac ini kno abo the and the env , lea bec ine .
the ter lea ref to a var of alg tha are cha by the abi to rep mis or inc wor kno by exp , obs , and gen .
lea rob thu col par of the dom kno the and imp ove tim .
the are les dep - den on a hum ins to pro thi kno bef .
a lea rob arc is typ exi eno to dea wit a who cla of env , rob and / or tas ( goa ) .
con the int pri kno , if ava at all , is oft too wea to sol a con pro off - lin .
in ord to rea a goa , lea rob rel on the int wit the env to ext in - for .
dif lea str dif mai in thr asp : the way to do exp ( exp ) , the way to gen fro the obs exp - enc , and the typ and amo of pri kno tha con the spa of the int hyp abo the wor .
the wil be no opt , gen lea tec for aut rob , sin lea tec are cha by a tra - off bet the deg of exi , giv by the siz of the gap in the dom kno , and the amo of obs req for lli the gap .
gen spe , the mor uni a rob lea arc , the mor exp - ime we exp the rob to tak to lea suc , and vic ver .
how , the adv of app lea str to aut rob age is obv : lea rob can ope in a who cla of ini unk env , and the can com for cha , sin the can re - adj the int bel abo the env and the .
mor , all emp lea kno is gro in the rea wor .
it has lon bee rec in ai tha lea is a key fea for mak aut age cap of sol mor com tas in mor rea env .
rec res has pro a var of rig lea tec tha all a rob to acq hug chu of kno by it - sel .
see for exa ( mel , 123 ) , ( moo , 123 ) , ( pom , 123 ) , ( tan , 123 ) ,
fig 123 the rob con lea pro .
a rob age is abl to per the sta of its env by its sen , and cha it usi its eff ( act ) .
a rew fun tha map sen to rew mea the per of the rob .
the con lea pro is the pro of ndi a con pol tha gen act suc tha the rew is max ove tim .
( mah and con , 123 ) , ( lin , 123 ) , and ( kui and byu , 123 ) .
wha exa is the con pro add by rob lea ? let us out a gen den of lea rob con .
ass the rob act in an env w ( the wor ) .
eac tim ste , the env is in a cer sta z z .
by sta we mea the sum of all qua in the env tha may cha dur the lif of the rob .
the rob is abl to ( par ) per the sta of its env thr its sen .
it is als abl to act usi its eff , as sho in fig 123
let s den the set of all pos sen , and a the set of all act tha the rob can exe .
act ( inc zer - act , if the rob doe not ) cha the sta of the wor .
hen , the env can be und as a map w : z a ( cid : 123 ) ! z fro sta and act to sta .
for exa , ima an aut mob rob who tas it is to kee the oor cle .
the wor suc a rob wil be act in are bui , inc the obs sur the rob , the oor , the dir on the oor , hum tha wal by , and so on .
app sen mig inc a cam mou on the rob arm , and the set of all sen mig be the spa of all cam ima .
act cou be go for , tur , swi on / off vac , and lif arm .
in ord to den the goa of the rob , we ass tha the rob is giv a rew fun r : s ( cid : 123 ) ! ir , tha map sen to sca rew val .
the rew eva the suc of the rob to sol its tas : in the mos sim for the rew is pos ( say 123 ) , if the rob rea its goa , it is neg ( - 123 ) if the rob fai , and zer oth .
pos rew cor to ple , and neg rew rep pai .
in the mob rob dom , for exa , the rew may be pos if the is no dir on the oor , and neg rew may be rec if the rob col wit the fur or run out of bat pow .
the con lea
pro is the pro of ndi a con fun f tha gen act suc tha the rew is max ove tim .
mor for , a con lea pro can be des in the fol way :
con lea pro : hs; a; w; ri ( cid : 123 ) ! f : s ! a suc tha f max r ove tim
thi for of the rob con lea pro has bee ext stu in the eld of rei lea .
( sut , 123 ) , ( bar et al . , 123 ) .
thu far , mos app tha eme fro thi eld hav stu rob lea wit a min set of ass : the rob is abl to sen , it is abl to exe act , act hav an eff on fut sen , and the is a pre - giv rew fun tha den the goa of the rob .
the goa of rei lea is to max the rew ove tim .
not tha thi gen den lac any spe abo the rob at han , its env , or the kin of rew fun the rob is exp to fac .
hen , app tha are abl to ada sol suc a rob con lea pro are gen lea tec .
per the mos res ass fou in mos app to rei lea is tha the rob is abl to sen the sta of the wor rel .
if thi is the cas , it suf to lea the pol as a fun of the mos rec sen to act : f : s ! a , i . e . , the con pol is pur rea .
as bar et al .
poi out ( bar et al . , 123 ) , the pro of lea a con pol can the be att by dyn pro tec ( bel , 123 ) .
as it tur out , eve if rob hav acc to com sta des of the env , lea con in com rob wor wit lar sta spa is pra not fea .
thi is bec it tak oft too muc exp to acq the kno req for max rew , i . e . , to ll the hug kno gap , and rob har is slo .
one mig arg tha bet lea tec hav to be inv tha dec the lea com , whi sti bei gen .
alt is cer spa for bet lea and gen tec tha gra dec the amo of exp req , it see unl tha suc tec wil eve be app to com , rea - wor rob env wit spa rew and dif tas .
the com of kno acq is inh in the for of the pro .
rea - wor exp wil be the cen bot of any gen lea tec tha doe not uti pri kno abo the rob and its env .
why do nat age suc as hum lea so muc bet tha art age ? may a bet que to ask is : is the lea pro fac by nat age any sim tha tha of art one ? we wil not att to giv gen ans to the gen que .
we wil , how , poi out the imp of kno tra and lif lea pro in ord to mak rob to lea mor com
123 the nec of lif age lea
hum typ enc a mul of con lea pro ove the ent lif , and so do rob .
hen , in thi pap we wil be int in the lif lea pro fac by a rob age , in whi it mus lea a col of con pol for a var of rel con tas .
eac of the con pro , hs; a; wi; rii inv the sam rob wit the sam set of sen , eff , and may var onl in the par env wi , and in the rew fun ri tha den the goa sta for thi pro .
for exa , an ind mob rob mig fac mul tas suc as shi pac , del mai , sup cri pro , gua its wor - pla at nig , and so on .
in thi sce the env wil be the sam for all tas , but the rew fun var .
alt , a win - cle rob tha is abl to cli fro of bui and mov arb on wal and win mig hav the ver sin tas of cle win .
it wil , how , fac mul fro and win ( env ) ove its lif .
in the lif lea pro , for eac dif env and eac rew fun the rob age mus nd a dif con pol , fi .
the lif lea pro of the age the cor to a set of con lea pro :
lif lea pro : fhs a; wi; rii ( cid : 123 ) ! fij : s ! ag suc tha fi max ri ove tim
of cou the age cou app the lif lea pro by han eac con lea pro ind .
how , the is an opp for the age to do con bet .
bec the con lea pro are den in ter of the sam s , a , and pot the sam w , the age sho be abl to red the dif of sol the i - th con lea pro by usi kno it acq fro sol ear con lea pro .
for exa , a rob tha mus lea to del las pri out and to col tra in the sam env sho be abl to use muc of wha it has lea fro the rst tas to sim lea the sec .
the pro of lif lea off the opp for syn amo the dif con lea pro , whi can spe - up lea ove the lif of the age .
vie rob lea as a lif lea pro mot res on boo - str lea alg tha tra lea kno fro one lea tas to ano .
boo lea alg mig sta wit low - com lea pro , and gra inc the pro sol pow to har pro - lem .
sim to hum , fut rob mig rst hav to lea sim tas ( suc as low - lev nav , han - eye coo ) , and , onc suc , dra the at - ten to inc mor dif and com lea tas ( suc as pic up
fig 123 the rob we use in all exp des in thi pap is a whe her - 123 rob wit a man and a gri .
it is equ wit two son sen , one on the top of the rob tha can be dir by a rot mir to giv a ful 123 swe ( 123 val ) , and one on the wri tha can be rot by the man to giv a 123 swe .
son sen ret app ech dis .
suc sen are ine but ver noi .
and del las pri out ) .
as , for exa , sin ( sin , 123 ) and lin ( lin , 123 ) dem , lea rel con tas wit inc com can res in a rem syn bet the con lea tas , and an im - pro pro sol pow .
in the exp , sim mob rob wer abl to sol mor com nav tas whe the rob wer giv sim , rel lea tas bef .
the als rep tha the sys wer una to lea the sam com tas in iso , poi out the imp of kno tra for rob lea .
the rem of the pap is org as fol .
in the nex two sec , we wil bri pre two app to the lif lea pro .
bot app hav bee imp and eva usi a her - 123 mob rob wit a ma - nip sho in fig 123
in the rst app , cal exp - bas neu net lea ( ebn ) , we wil ass tha the env of the age sta the sam for all con lea tas .
thi all the rob to lea tas - ind act mod .
onc lea , the act mod pro a mea of tra kno acr con lea tas .
in ebn , suc act mod are use to exp and ana obs .
in sec 123 , we dro the ass of sta env .
ins , we des a mob aut rob tha has to sol the
fig 123 epi : sta wit the ini sta s12 , the act seq a12 a12 : : : ; an ( cid : 123 ) 123 was obs to pro the nal rew rn .
the rob age use its act mod , whi cap pre exp in the sam env , to exp the obs epi and thu bia lea .
see tex for an exp .
sam tas in dif , rel env .
we dem how thi rob mig lea and tra env - ind kno tha cap the cha - tic of its sen , as wel as inv cha of the env .
in sec 123 we wil rev som rel app to rob lea whi als uti pre - ous lea kno .
as we wil see , the are sev typ of tec tha can be gro int cat .
the pap is con by sec 123
123 exp obs in ter of pri exp
as den in the pre sec , the lif lea pro fac by a lea rob age is the pro of lea col of tas in fam of env ove the ent lif .
in thi sec we wil dra our att to a par sub - typ of lif lea pro , nam to the lif lea pro of rob tha spe the who lif exc in the sam env .
thi res cla of lif lea sce pla an imp rol in aut age res .
man pro rob age , suc as hou rob , ind rob arm or art ins , fac a var of lea pro in the ver sam env .
in suc sce , kno abo the env can be reu , sin the env sta the sam for eac tas .
the exp - bas neu net lea alg ( ebn ) , whi wil be pre in thi sec , tra tas - ind kno via lea act mod whi are lea emp dur pro sol .
123 lea act mod
rob obs the env ( and the ) by the eff of the act .
in oth wor , eac tim an act is per , the rob may use its sen
to sen the way the wor has cha .
let us ass for sim tha the rob is abl to acc sen the sta of the wor .
as poi out in the pre sec , lea con red to lea a rea con
if the env is suf pre , neu net lea tec suc as the bac - pro tra pro ( rum et al . , 123 ) can be use to mod the env .
mor spe , eac tim an act is per , the pre sta den by s , the act a and the nex sta s for a tra exa for the act mod net , den by m :
h s; a i ( cid : 123 ) ! s
act mod are thu fun of the typ m : s a ( cid : 123 ) ! s .
sin we ass tha the env is the sam for all tas , act mod cap inv tha all for tra kno fro one tas to ano .
eac ind con lea pro req a dif pol , i . e . , lea a con fun fi : s ( cid : 123 ) ! a tha , whe emp by the age , max the cor rew ri .
in gen , fi is dif to lea dir .
fol the ide of rei lea ( ( sam , 123 ) , ( sut , 123 ) , ( bar et al . , 123 ) , ( wat , 123 ) ) , we dec the pro of lea fi int the pro of lea an eva fun , qi , den ove sta and act .
qi : s a ( cid : 123 ) ! ir , whe qis a is the exp fut cum rew ach aft exe act a in sta s .
ass for a mom the age had lea an acc eva fun qi .
the it can eas use thi fun to sel opt act tha max rew ove tim .
giv som sta , s , tha the age nds its in , it com its con act a by con its ava act to det whi of the pro the hig qi val :
a = arg qis a
sin qis a mea the fut cum rew , a is the opt act if qis a is cor .
the pro of lea a pol is thu red to the pro of lea an eva fun .
how can an age lea the eva fun qi ? to see how tra dat for lea qi mig be obt , con the sce dep in fig 123
the rob
123 we int avo the com pro of inc and noi per per , sin the alg pre in thi sec is kin of ort to res on the iss .
see ( bac and moz , 123 ) , ( chr , 123 ) , ( lin and mit , 123 ) , ( moz and bac , 123 ) , ( riv and sch , 123 ) , ( tan , 123 ) , ( whi and bal , 123 ) for app to lea wit inc per .
123 see for exa ( bar et al . , 123 ) , ( jor , 123 ) , ( mun , 123 ) , ( thr , 123 ) for
mor app to lea act mod wit neu net .
age beg at the ini sta s12 and per the act seq a12 a12 : : : ; an .
aft act an it rec the rew rn = 123 : 123 whi , in thi exa , ind tha the act seq was con suc .
at a rst gla , thi epi can be use by the age to der tra exa for the eva fun qi by ass the nal rew wit eac sta - act pai :
h s12 a12 i ( cid : 123 ) ! rn = 123 : 123 h s12 a12 i ( cid : 123 ) ! rn = 123 : 123
h sn ( cid : 123 ) 123 an ( cid : 123 ) 123 i ( cid : 123 ) ! rn = 123 : 123
an ind lea met , suc as the bac - pro tra pro , can use suc tra exa to lea qi .
as the num of tra exa gro , the age int ver of qi wil imp , res in it cho inc eff act . 123 not tha for eac con lea pro hs; a; wi; rii , the age mus lea a dis qi , sin the rew dif for dif tas .
123 the exp - bas neu net lea alg
how can the age use its pre lea kno , nam the neu net act mod , to gui lea of the eva fun qi ? as poi out ear in thi pap , we are int in the lif lea pro .
sin we ass thr thi sec tha the env is the sam for all ind con lea pro , neu net act mod cap imp dom kno tha is ind of the par con lea pro at han .
in the exp - bas neu net lea alg ( ebn ) , the age use the act mod to bia lea of the con fun .
123 for sim of the not , we ass tha rew wil onl be rec at the end of an epi .
ebn can be app to arb rew fun .
see ( mit and thr , 123 ) for mor det .
123 not tha mor sop lea sch for lea eva fun hav bee dev .
in his dis , wat ( wat , 123 ) des q - lea , a sch for lea eva fun qis ak rec .
in q - lea tra - ing pat are der bas on the max pos q val at the nex sta : hsk aki ( cid : 123 ) ! max qsk a .
ind , in all our exp we app a lin com - nat of wat rec sch and the non - rec sch des in the pap .
thi com is str rel to sut t d alg ( sut , 123 ) .
sin the exa pro is not ess for the ide pre in thi pap , we wil omi any det .
a sec ext , als use wid , is to dis rew ove tim .
if act are to be cho suc tha the num of act is min , rew is typ dis wit a dis fac 123
the res con pol con pre soo rew to mor dis rew .
see ( mit and thr , 123 ) or ( thr and mit , 123 ) for a mor det des of the iss .
fig 123 fit slo : let f be a tar fun for whi thr exa hx1 fx1 , hx1 fx1 , and hx1 fx1 are kno .
bas on the poi the lea mig gen the hyp g .
if the out - inp der are als kno , the lea can do muc bet : h .
ebn wor as fol .
sup the rob fac the con lea pro num - ber i , i . e . , it has to lea the eva fun qi .
the lea sch des abo pro tra val for the des eva fun .
rep exp - ime all the rob to col eno dat to lea the des qi .
how , thi pro doe not uti the kno rep in the act mod .
as - sum the age has lea alr acc act mod tha mod the eff of act on the sta of the env .
of cou , the act mod wil onl be app cor , sin the are lea ind fro a nit amo of tra dat .
in ebn , the age emp the act mod to exp , ana and gen bet fro the obs epi .
thi is don in the fol thr
exp .
an exp is a pos - fac pre of the obs sta - act seq ( dej and moo , 123 ) , ( mit et al . , 123 ) , ( mit and thr , 123 ) .
sta wit the ini sta - act pai s12 a12 , the age pos - fac pre sub sta up to the nal sta sn usi its neu net act mod .
sin the act mod are onl app cor , pre - tio wil dev fro the obs sta .
ana .
hav exp the who epi , the exp is ana to ext fur inf tha is use for lea the eva fun qi .
in par , the age ana how a sma cha of the sta fea wil aff the nal rew , and thu the val of the eva fun .
thi is don by ext par der ( slo ) of the tar fun qi wit res to the obs sta in the epi : fir , the age com the par der of the nal rew wit res to the nal sta sn .
not tha the rew fun rs , inc its der , is ass to be giv to the age .
the slo are now pro bac thr the cha of act mod inf .
neu net act mod rep dif fun .
usi the cha rul of dif , the age com the par der of the nal rew wit res to the pre sta sn ( cid : 123 ) 123 by mul the par der of the rew wit the der of the neu net act
thi pro is ite , yie all par der of the nal rew alo the who epi :
her m : s a ( cid : 123 ) ! s den the neu net act mod .
the rew - sta slo ana the imp of the sta fea for the nal rew .
sta fea bel ( by the act mod ) to be irr to ach the nal rew wil hav par der of zer , whe lar der val ind the pre of str rel fea .
the ana ext slo app the slo of the tar eva fun qi .
fig 123 ill the imp of the slo inf - tio of the tar fun .
sup the unk tar fun is the fun f dep in fig 123 , and sup tha thr tra exa are giv : x12 , x12 and x12
an arb con fun app , for exa a neu net , mig hyp the fun g sho in fig 123 .
if the slo at the poi are kno as wel , the the res fun mig be muc bet , as ill in fig 123 .
ebn use a com lea sch uti bot typ of tra inf - mat .
the tar val ( c . f .
equ 123 ) for lea qi are gen fro obs , whe the tar slo , giv by
r h sn ( cid : 123 ) 123 an ( cid : 123 ) 123 i ( cid : 123 ) !
r h s12 a12 i ( cid : 123 ) !
sk; ak ;
are ext fro ana the obs usi dom kno acq in pre con lea tas .
bot sou of tra inf , the tar val and the tar slo , are use to upd the wei and bia of the tar net . 123 con , the dom kno is use to bia the gen .
sin thi bia is kno , it wil par rep the nee for rea - wor exp , hen acc lea .
123 as sim and col poi out , the bac - pro alg can be ext to t tar slo as wel as tar val ( sim et al . , 123 ) .
the alg tan pro inc upd wei and bia of a neu net suc tha bot the val and the slo err are sim min .
123 acc imp act mod
ini exp wit ebn on a sim rob nav tas sho a sig spe in lea whe the rob age had acc to hig acc act mod ( mit and thr , 123 ) .
if the act mod are not suf acc , how , the rob per can ser suf fro the ana .
thi is bec the ext slo mig ver wel be wro and mis gen .
thi obs rai an ess que for res on lif age lea and kno tra : how can a rob age dea wit inc pri kno ? cle , if the age lac tra exp , any ind lea bia mig be poo and mis .
but eve in the wor cas , a lea mec tha emp pre lea dom kno sho not tak mor tim for lea con tha a lea mec tha doe not uti pri kno at all .
how can the lea avo the dam eff ari fro poo pri kno ?
in ebn , mal slo are ide and the inu is gra red .
mor spe , the acc of the ext slo is est bas upo the obs pre err of the act mod .
for exa , if the act mod per pos - fac pre the obs epi , the est acc of all slo wil be 123
lik , if for som of the act mod in the cha of mod der hav pro ina sta pre , the cor est acc wil be clo to zer .
the acc of the slo are now use whe tra the tar net .
sin tan pro all to wei eac tra pat ind , the est acc can be use to det the rat wit whi val lea and slo lea are wei whe lea the tar con .
mor spe , in ebn the ste - siz for wei upd is mul by the est slo acc whe lea slo .
as ill els ( mit and thr , 123 ) , wei slo tra by the acc was fou to suc red the imp of mal slo res fro ina act mod .
we eva ebn usi nin dif set of act mod tha wer tra wit dif amo of tra dat .
wit wel - tra act mod in the sim rob dom , the sam spe was obs as bef .
wit inc ina act mod , the per of ebn app tha of sta rei lea wit kno tra .
in the exp , ebn deg gra wit inc err in the act mod .
the res are int sin the ind the fea of lif lea alg tha are abl to ben fro pre lea bia , eve if thi bia is poo .
123 a con exa : lea to pic up a cup
we wil pre som ini res obt wit our her - 123 rob .
thu far , we pre inv the eff of pre lea kno on the
fig 123 the rob use its man and a son sen to sen the dis to a cup and to pic it up .
lea spe for new con lea tas .
we the tra the act mod - els bef wit man col tra dat .
the rob age had to lea a pol for app and gra a cup .
the rob at han , sho aga in fig 123 , use a han - mou son sen to obs its env .
son dat was pre to est the dir and dis to the clo obj , whi was use as the wor sta des .
rob act wer for ( inc ) , tur ( deg ) , and gra .
pos rew was rec for suc gra , and neg rew for uns gra as wel as for los sig of the cup .
in thi exp , act wer mod by thr sep net , one for eac act .
the net for the par act for ( inc ) and tur ( deg ) pre the dis and the ori to the cup ( one hid lay wit 123 uni ) , whe the mod for gra pre the pro tha a pre - giv , ope - loo gra rou wou man to pic up the cup ( fou hid uni ) .
all act mod wer pre - lea fro app two hun tra epi con an ave of ve ste eac , whi wer man col bef .
fig 123 sho as an exa the act mod for the gra act .
sin thi par act mod mod the pro of suc of the gra rou , the rew fun was sim the ide map rs = s ( wit the con der 123 ) .
the eva fun q was als mod by thr dis net , one for eac act ( 123 hid uni eac ) .
aft lea the act mod , the six tra epi for the eva net sho in fig 123 wer pro by a hum tea who con the rob .
we app a ver of t d ( sut , 123 ) wit = 123 : 123 and wat q - lea ( wat , 123 )
123 deg 123 123 deg 123
fig 123 act mod for the act mod gra .
the x and y axi mea aga the ang and dis to the cup .
the z axi plo the exp suc of the gra act , i . e . , the pro tha the gra suc .
wit exp rep ( lin , 123 ) for lea con .
fig 123 ill the lea q fun for the gra act wit ( rig row ) and wit ( lef row ) emp the act mod and ebn .
in thi ini sta of lea , whe lit dat is yet ava , the gen bia fro the pre - lea act mod is app .
alt non of the q fun has yet con , the q fun lea usi ebn hav a sha tha is mor cor , and whi is unl to be gue bas sol on the few obs tra poi wit no ini kno .
for exa , eve aft pre six epi the pla lea pro pre pos rew sol bas upo the ang of the cup , whe the com ebn met has alr lea tha gra wil fai if the cup is too far awa .
thi inf , how , is not rep in the tra epi ( fig 123 ) , sin the is no sin exa of an att to gra a cup far awa .
it rat see tha the slo of the mod wer cop int the tar eva fun .
thi ill the eff of the slo in ebn : the eva fun lea wit ebn dis the cor of the dis of the cup and the suc of the gra act fro the neu net act mod .
if the act mod wer lea in an ear con lea tas , the wou be a sig syn eff bet the .
the ebn res in thi sec are ini .
the are pre bec the ind tha tas - ind kno , onc lea , can be suc tra by ebn whe lea the gra tas .
the are als pre sin the eva ebn in a rea rob dom , unl the res pre in ( mit and thr , 123 ) , ( thr and mit , 123 ) .
how , thu far we did not col eno
fig 123 six tra epi for lea con , lab by 123 to 123
the hor axi mea the ang of the cup , rel to the rob bod , and the ver axi mea the dis to the cup in a log sca .
suc gra are lab wit + , uns wit .
not tha som of the epi inc for and tur .
tra dat to lea a com pol for app and gra the cup wit eit met .
fut res wil cha the syn dur the ful cou of lea unt con .
it wil als exp wit fam of rel tas , suc as app and gra dif obj , inc cup tha lie on the
123 ebn and lif rob lea
wha les doe ebn tea us in the con of lif age lea ? in thi sec we mad the res ass tha all con lea pro of the rob age pla in the ver sam env .
if thi is the cas , any typ of mod of the rob and its env are pro can for tra tas - inv kno bet the ind con lea pro .
in ebn , tas - ind inf is rep by neu net act mod .
the mod bia gen whe lea con via the pro of exp and ana obs epi .
ebn is a met for lif age lea , sin it lea and re - use lea kno tha is ind of the par con lea pro at han .
alt the ini exp des in thi pap do not ful dem thi poi , ebn is abl to efc rep rea - wor
wit ana tra , 123 epi
wit ana tra , 123 epi
fig 123 eva fun for the act gra aft pre 123 ( upp row ) and 123 ( low row ) tra epi , and wit ( lef col ) and wit ( rig col ) usi the act mod for bia the gen .
exp by pre lea bia .
in rel exp wit a sim rob pre els ( mit and thr , 123 ) , we obs a sig spe - up by a fac of 123 to 123 whe pre - lea act mod wer emp .
it is imp to men tha we exp ebn to be eve mor efc if the dim of the sta spa is hig .
thi is bec for eac sin obs ebn ext a d - dim slo vec fro the env , if d if the dim of the inp spa .
our con is tha wit acc dom the the gen imp sca lin wit the num of ins fea ( e . g . , we wou exp a thr ord of mag imp for a net wit 123 inp fea ) , sin eac der ext by ebn can be vie rou as sum inf equ to one new tra exa for eac of the d inp dim .
thi con is rou con wit our exp in
the sim rob dom .
the rel per imp mig inc eve mor if hig - ord der are ext , whi is not yet the cas in ebn .
it is imp to not , how , tha the qua of the act mod is cru for the per of ebn .
wit ina act mod , ebn wil not per bet tha a pur ind lea pro .
thi doe not sur .
app to the lif lea pro wil alw be at mos as efc as non - tra app the rob sol its rst con lea pro in its lif .
the des syn eff occ lat , whe the age has lea an app dom - spe bia , whe it is mor mat .
123 lif lea in mul env
in the pre sec we foc on a cer typ of lif rob lea pro , nam pro whi dea wit a sin env .
we wil now foc on a mor gen typ of lif - lea sce , in whi the env dif for the ind con lea tas .
as poi out in sec 123 , the are qui a few rob lea sce whe a rob has to lea con in who fam of env .
for exa , a vac cle rob mig hav to lea to cle dif bui .
alt , an aut veh mig hav to lea nav in sev typ of ter .
mul - env sce pro les pos for tra kno .
at a rst gla , tra kno see har , if the env is not the sam for all con lea tas .
but eve in thi typ pro the are inv tha may be lea and use as a bia .
the key obs is tha all lif lea sce inv the sam rob , the sam eff , the sam sen , alt the mig hav to dea wit a var of env and con lea tas the .
app to thi typ of lif lea pro thu aim at lea the cha of the sen and eff of the rob , as wel as inv in the env , if the are any .
the pri of lea and tra tas - ind kno is the sam as in the pre sec the typ of kno tha is tra dif .
so far , the has bee lit sys res on thi gen typ of lif rob lea sce .
in the rem of thi sec we wil not des a gen lea mec , but a par app to lea the cha of the rob sen and the env .
usi the her - 123 rob as an exa , we wil dem how inv sen mod can rep a kno bia whi is ind of the par env at han .
fig 123 the rob exp an unk env .
not the obs in the mid of the lab .
our lab cau man mal son val , and is a har tes for son - bas nav .
for exa , som of the cha abs sou alm com , and are thu har to det by son .
123 lea to int sen
wha kin of inv can be lea acr mul env ? two obs - tio are cru for the app des her .
fir , the rob and its sen are the sam for eac env .
sec , the mig be reg in the env - men tha can be lea as wel .
in thi sec we wil des a neu net app to lea the cha of the rob sen , as wel as tho of typ ind env .
the tas of the mob her - 123 rob is to exp unk bui ( thr , 123 ) .
fac a new ind env suc as the lab env dep in fig 123 , the rob has to wan aro and to use its sen to avo col .
in the exp tas the rob use two of its sen : a rot son sen is mou on the hea of the rob , as sho in fig 123
the rob als mon its whe enc to det stu or sli whe .
neg rew is rec for col whi can be det usi the whe enc .
pos rew is rec for ent reg whe the rob has not bee bef .
ini , the rob doe not pos any kno abo its sen and the env it wil fac thr its lif .
sen are uni 123 - dim vec of oat ( son sca ) , alo wit a sin bit tha enc the sta of the whe .
in ord to sim lea , we ass tha the rob has acc to its x - y - coo
fig 123 tas - ind kno : ( a ) sen int net r and ( b ) con net c .
in a glo ref fra ( mea the ori of the rob ) . 123 nav in unk env is cle a lif rob lea pro .
ini , the rob has to exp col , sin the ini kno doe not suf to pre fro the .
col wil be pen by neg rew .
in ord to tra kno , the rob the has to lea how to int its sen in ord to pre col .
thi kno is re - use for eac env the rob wil fac ove its lif .
aft som ini exp , the rob sho be abl to man in new , unk wor whi suc avo col wit
we wil now des a pai of net whi lea sen - spe kno tha can be re - use acr mul env .
the sen int fun , den by r , map sen inf our cas a son sca rew inf - mat .
mor spe , r eva for arb loc clo to the rob the pro for a col , bas on a sin son sca .
fig 123 sho r .
inp to the net is a vec of son val , tog wit the coo of the que poi x; y rel to the rob loc coo fra .
the out of the net - wor is 123 , if the int pre a col for thi poi , and 123 , if the net pre fre - spa .
thi fun can be lea by sta sup lea alg , if the rob kee tra of all sen rea and of all loc whe it col ( and whe it did not col ) .
as the rob ope , it con map tha lab occ reg and fre - spa , whi is use to for tra exa for the sen int net r .
as usu , the rob use bac - pro to lea r .
in ord to pre the pre rob har fro rea - wor col , we
123 if the rob whe are per , thi x - y - pos can be cal int by dea rec .
the rob at han , how , is not pre eno , and aft 123 to 123 min of ope the rea coo usu dev sig fro the int est .
an app to com suc con err is bri des in ( thr , 123 ) .
( a ) sen int
fig 123 cap dom kno in the net r and c .
( a ) sen int and ( b ) con val are sho for the fol exa : 123
hal , 123
hal wit ope doo .
hal wit hum wal by , 123
cor of a roo , 123
cor wit obs , 123
sev obs .
lin ind son mea - men ( dis ) , and the reg dar rep in ( a ) the exp col rew for sur are ( dar val ind neg rew ) , and in ( b ) the con lev ( dar val ind low con ) .
des a rob sim and use it for gen the tra pat for the int net .
in the sim the who rob env is kno , and tra exa tha map sen to occ inf can be ext eas .
in a few min the sim rob exp its sim wor , col
fig 123 map bui : ( a ) raw , noi sen inp on an exp pat wit 123 mea .
( b ) res mod , cor to the lab sho in fig 123 ( lab doo is tow bot lef ) .
the pat of the rob is als plo ( fro rig to lef ) , dem the exp of the ini unk lab .
in the nex ste , the rob wil pas the doo of the lab and exp the hal .
a tot of 123 123 tra exa .
six exa for sen int usi r are sho in fig 123 .
the cir in the cen rep the rob , and the lin ort to the rob rep dis sen by the son .
the pro of neg rew , as pre by the r , is dis in the cir reg aro the rob : the dar the reg , the hig the pro of col .
as can be see fro thi gur , the net r has suc lea how to int son sig .
if son val are sma ( mea tha the son sig bou bac ear ) , the net pre an obs nea .
lik , lar val rea are int as fre - spa .
the net has als lea inv in the tra env .
for exa , typ siz of wal are kno .
in fig 123 - 123 , for exa , the rob pre a lon obs of a cer wid , but beh thi obs it pre a con low pro for col .
thi pre is sur , giv tha son sen can see thr obs .
in the tra env , how , reg beh wal hap to be fre fai oft , whi exp the x - ray pre by the net .
thi pro cle evi tha the sen int net doe not onl rep kno abo the rob sen , but als kno abo cer inv of the env at han .
fig 123 lab and oor : ( a ) mod , and ( b ) con map .
123 bui map
we wil now mot the nee for a sec net , the so - cal con net c , whi is rel to r .
as can bee see fro fig 123 , a sin son sca can be use to bui a sma loc map aro the rob .
if the rob mov aro and tak sev rea , the res int can be com to for a map of the wor .
how , the wil be poi in the wor whe the int fro mul sen wil dis .
the are two mai rea for con int : fir , son sen , lik any sen , are noi dev .
the oft fai to det cer obj suc as smo sur or obj wit abs sur lik som of our ofc cha .
sec , son are bli for are beh obs .
hen int for reg beh an obs wil be ina tru ree the ave pro of occ ( the pri ) .
thi obs mak it nec to des a mec tha res con bet dif pre .
we wil app thi pro by exp mod the rel of the int - pre , and usi the rel as wei fac whe com mul int .
mor spe , con a tes pha for the int net - wor r .
for som of the tes exa , r wil man to pre the tar val clo .
for oth , how , the wil be a sig res err for the
123 see ( mor , 123 ) and ( elf , 123 ) for rel app to map bui and rob
fig 123 map com dur the rst aaa aut rob com in san jos , jul 123
the map ree the kno of the rob aft sta 123 of the com .
in thi and the pre sta , the rob had to nd and app ten vis mar pol , whi avo col wit obs .
lin mar the bou of the com are .
the map is som ina sin it was bui on two sep day , and the loc of the rob and the obs wer not qui ide .
we com for suc ina by dec the con ove
rea giv abo .
thi err is use to tra a sec net c , whi is cal con net .
the inp to c is the sam as the inp to r .
the tar out is the ( nor ) pre err of r .
aft tra , c thu pre the exp dev of the sen int , den by cs; x; y .
the con int the int rs; x; y is thu giv by ( cid : 123 ) ln cs; x; y .
whe mul sen int are com , the ind int val are ave , wei by the con val .
fig 123 sho con val for the int sho in fig 123 .
her dar reg cor to low con .
lik , lig reg ind hig con .
as can be see fro the exa , the con in reg beh obs is gen low .
low con is als pre for bou reg bet fre - spa and obs , thi doe not sur , sin son val det obj in a 123 con .
the do not tel whe in the con an obj was fou .
con , the ne - str of obj is har to pre .
sim to the sen int net , the con -
den net rep kno abo the sen and the env of the rob tha can be tra acr env .
it is imp to not tha bot net , r and c , rep lea kno tha is ind of the par env at han .
the net act as a bia in the mod pro , whe the rob con an int mod of a new env .
the fig 123 to 123 sho som exa map tha wer obt for dif env .
we use the net r and c to nd mod of our lab ( 123 ) .
a sim non - ada alg was use for exp tha bas pla min - cos pla to the clo une reg .
mod of the lab and the hal are sho in fig 123 and 123
alt bot net wer tra in sim , the suc pre the rob fro col obs .
the sam net r and c wer use on a aut rob com , tha was hel dur the aaa con in jul 123 in san jos .
her the tas and env dif fro the env the rob had see pre : the env was a lar are lle wit pap box , and the tas was to nd and to nav to 123 vis mar pol .
the rob had no inf abo the loc of the obs and the pol .
it had to exp and mod the env by its .
the nal imp ( we nam the rob ody ) was far mor com tha wha is des her .
ody nav was map - bas , and the ada map bui pro was a com of ody con .
the rob emp the sam net tha wer gen by the sim and tes in our exp in the lab .
aft a tot of 123 min ope dur two sep sta of the com the rob pro the map sho in fig 123
the net pro map tha wer acc eno to pro the rob fro any col wit an obs .
the als all the rob to nd clo - to - opt pat to the goa loc .
123 sen int and lif rob lea
wha is the con of thi app to the pro of lif age lea ? of cou , lea sen int doe not nec hav to be vie as a met for lea bia , and the pre met is by no mea a gen lea sch for lif lea pro .
how , for the pur of thi pap we wil cha map bui in ter of lif rob lea .
obv in eac new env the rob cle has to lea con .
thi is bec ini , whe the rob fac a new , unk env , its kno doe cle not suf to gen act tha max rew .
the rob the gra lea a pol for act gen ste - by - ste , and the int map pro the fre for lea , the kno gap lle dur the cou of int wit the wor .
bui int two - dim occ map , tog wit the sta pla rou tha gen act usi the map , is lea con .
thu , lea neu net sen int off a pro per for res in lif rob lea in mul env .
alt bot the env and the goa dif for the ind rob con tas in
our exp , we hav dem tha kno tra cou dra red rea - wor exp .
the rob did kno abo col in bot rea - wor env wit eve hav exp one , sol bas on pre lea kno .
we bel tha met whi acq and uti mod of the sen , eff ( not dem her ) , and inv in the env are pro can for efc rob lea in mor com lif lea
123 rel wor
app to kno tra in the lif lea pro can be vie as tec for acq fun app bia .
var res hav not the imp of lea bia and tra kno acr mul rob con lea tas .
the can rou be gro int the fol cat -
lea mod .
act mod are per the mos str way to lea and tra tas - ind kno , if all ind con lea tas dea wit a sin env .
app tha uti act mod dif - fer in the typ of act mod the emp , and the way the act mod are use to bia lea con .
sut ( sut , 123 ) pre a sys tha lea act mod , lik ebn .
he use the mod for syn hyp exp tha ren the con pol .
in his exp he fou a tre - dou spe in lea con whe usi the act mod .
ebn dif fro thi app in tha it use its act mod for exp rea - wor ob - ser , and in tha pro a mec to rec fro err in the act mod .
lin ( lin , 123 ) des a mec whe pas exp is mem - ori and rep rep whe lea con .
the col of pas exp for a non - gen act mod .
lin als rep sig spe whe usi his rep mec .
as men abo , exp rep was als use for neu net tra in ebn .
thu far , the has bee lit res on lea mod tha can act as a bia in lif lea pro wit mul rob env .
lea beh and abs .
a sec way of lea and tra - rin kno acr tas are beh .
beh are con ( pol ) wit low com the ter beh ref to rea con .
re - inf lea , for exa , can be vie as a tec for lea beh .
beh for abs act spa , sin the bas act of the rob mig be rep by the act of inv a beh .
thu , wit app - pri beh abs act spa can be for , and hie of act can be ide .
lea beh acc lea con by res the sea spa of all pos pol , mai for two rea .
fir , the num - ber of beh is oft sma tha the num of act .
sec , beh
typ are sel for lon per of tim .
the lat arg is usu mor imp and pro a str bia for lea con .
sin ( sin , 123 ) , ( sin , 123 ) rep a tec to lea com tas by rst lea con for sim tas bas on rei lea .
the con rep rea beh .
the hig - lev pol is lea in the abs act spa for by the low lev beh .
in ord to rep - res eve the hig - lev con as a pur rea fun , sin mak sev res ass on the typ of tas and sen inf .
in his doc the , lin ( lin , 123 ) des a rel sch for lea be - hav , act hie and abs .
he ass tha a hum ins tea a rob a set of ele beh whi suf for all tas whi the rob wil fac ove its lif .
unl sin , his app doe not gua tha opt con can be lea in the lim .
rec , day and hin ( day and hin , 123 ) pro a sys tha use a pre - giv hie dec to lea con on dif lev of abs .
eac lev of abs dif in the gra - siz of the sen inf , res in dif - fer spe con .
sin the sys lea rea con on eac lev usi rei lea alg , it is unc for wha typ of pro thi pro wil lea suc , sin ess inf may be mis whe pro inc sen inf to pur rea
lea ind fun app bia .
ano , mor str - war app to lea and tra kno is to lea the ind bia of the fun app use for lea con dir .
atk ( atk , 123 ) pre a sch for lea dis mea for ins - bas , loc app sch .
in his alg , sca fac are lea tha all to wei dif inp fea dif .
sut ( sut , 123 ) rep a fam of lea sch tha all to lea ind bia sim to kal lte ( kal , 123 ) .
alt he did not des his met in the con of lea con , his res has bee mot by tra kno acr mul con lea tas .
lea rep .
rep , tog wit ind bia , de - ter the way a fun app gen fro exa .
man re - sea hav foc on lea app rep in ord to lea bia .
for exa , pra ( pra , 123 ) des sev app tha all to re - use lea rep in hid uni of neu net .
alt she cou emp dem tha thi tra cou sig red the num of tra epo req for the con of the bac - pro alg , she onl fou occ imp in the gen .
a sim - ila tec is rep by sha and sha ( sha and sha , 123 ) .
som res hav stu kno tra if sev tas are lea sim .
for exa , sud and ker ( sud and ker , 123 ) dem tha mul lea tas of cer typ can suc - ful gui and imp gen .
in his app , he giv hin to neu
net in for of add out uni tha lea a clo rel tas .
the hin con the int rep dev by the net .
in a mor gen way , car ( car , 123 ) rec pro to lea who col of tas in par , usi a sha int rep .
he con - jec tha mul - tas lea wil mak neu net lea alg sca to mor com lea tas .
bot app to the lif lea pro des in thi pap fal int the rst cat .
in ebn , the rob lea act mod whi bia gen in the eva fun .
sen int fun are inv mod of the sen and the env of the rob .
in the rob exp tas , the rob thu lea mod of its and typ asp of its env , whi bia the con of the ind map .
as poi out ear , act mod are wel - sui if the env is the sam for all lea tas , whe sen mod are app for lif age lea in mul env .
in thi pap we hav pre a lif lea per for aut rob .
we pro not to stu rob lea pro in iso , but in the con of the mul of lea pro tha a rob wil fac ove its lif .
lif rob lea ope the opp for tra of lea kno .
thi kno may be use as a bia whe lea con .
alt con lea met tha all the tra of kno are mor com as mos alg tha sol iso con lea pro , rob lea its be - com eas .
rob tha mem and tra kno rel les on rea - wor exp and thu lea fas .
thi is bec pre lea kno may act as a kno bia tha may par rep the pur syn bia of ind lea alg .
we hav dem wit two con app the pot syn eff of kno tra .
the app add two mai typ of lif age lea sce , nam tho tha are den in a sin env , and tho tha are not .
we str bel tha kno tra is ess for sca rob lea alg to mor rea and com dom .
exp pre lea kno sim lea con .
the res sup our fun cla tha lea bec eas , if it is emb int a lif lea con .
we tha the cmu rob lea gro and the ody tea at cmu for inv - abl dis tha con to thi res .
we als tha ryu mas
fig 123 ( a ) the uni of bon rob rhi ( man by rea wor int , inc . ) , ( b ) map ( app 123 123 met ) con by rhi at the aaa - 123 rob com , usi the tec des in thi pap .
for his inv hel in ren ebn .
thi res was spo in par by the avi lab , wri res and de - vel cen , aer sys div ( afs ) , u .
air for , wri - pat afb , oh 123 - 123 und con f12 - 123 - c - 123 , arp ord no .
123 and by a gra fro sie cor .
the vie and con con in thi doc are tho of the aut and sho not be int as rep the ofc pol , eit exp or imp , of the u . s .
gov or sie cor .
sin thi pap was sub , ebn was suc app to a var of rea - wor lea tas .
in ( mit and thr , 123 , thr , 123 , thr , 123 ) , res of app ebn to mob rob nav usi the cmu xav rob are rep .
ebn has als bee app to rob per ( mit et al . , 123 ) ,
( osu et al . , to app ) , obj rec ( thr and mit , 123 ) and the gam of che ( thr , 123 ) .
in ( thr and mit , 123 ) , a den of the lif lea pro in the con of sup lea can be fou .
the app to int son sen for bui occ map rep in sec .
123 has bee , wit sli mod , suc emp in the uni of bon ent rhi at the 123 aaa mob rob com ( buh et al . , to app ) .
cur , map are rou bui for lar ind are .
