st al ls of ed ng ly ly on ed ng es , nd re he le le of ed ta .
is is ue th or ve ce ls of ng ch as ar ll nd ct - r on , et al .
, nd or ne ng nd ta ng ms ch as on ee ng nd ve ic ng ee , e . g . , ll .
in is er we er he al le of ed ta in ed ng .
we nt an hm nd al ts ng at ed ta an ly ve ng cy in in al ms .
we en fy he ct em re at es he hm to ly ze is ed ta , nd ve at ed ta ll st ng cy or ms in is ss .
he em ss we fy es ms re he es ng he es re ly nt or ng he e; a on we ke se in he er .
is em ss es ny al ng ms ed by ns , ch as ng a ic on er un es in al ge , nd ng to ze ts om le or ts .
we ue at ls of an nd al ng ld er re ly he al le of ed ta , nd at ny al ng ms t he ss we fy .
a ed ng em : ng to fy eb es
to te he le of ed ta in ed ng , er he em of ng to fy es of xt om he ld de eb , en ed ng ta ng of al eb es ng th ir ct ns re .
we ve en ng is em as rt of ur er ch al of ly ng on om he eb en et al .
or hn th
hi ! i ch er es nd se ts , ng
in my re me i rk on a er of ch ts , ng ne ng or eb
ve ng or ot ol
re : ng le of a ty me ge . " he sk of ng a eb ge an be ed by ng st he ds on he eb ge .
ly , he ge an be ed ng ly he ds on ks at nt to he eb ge e . g . , my or " or th " .
en es re ed by ch ly nt es , ed ta an be ed to st he cy or ed ng .
or le , ne ic sk we ve ed is ng a em to fy eb es to es ch as nt me ge , " ty me ge , " me ge of an ic se , "
is eb ge on em an be ed as a al ed ng em .
by ed ng em " we an at re is me et x of es , nd re is me et on f : x ! y to be ed , en a et of ng es of he rm i; f ig .
in ur se , x is he et of ll eb es , y is he et of le ns e . g . , nt " ty " er " , nd he on f to be ed in he on at ps an ry ge x to ts ct on .
or he th ed ng le , xi is a ar eb ge , nd f xi is he ct on or xi , ed by an al er .
as ed in en et al .
, a er of ed ng ms an be ed to he em of ng to fy eb es .
ne on ch is to st nt ch eb ge by a ge re or , re ch le rd in he ge ds to a re , nd he ue of he re is he er of es he rd rs in he eb ge .
is ag of ds " on ly es on ut he ce in ch ds ur .
er , is on of eb es as ge re rs es us to ly rd ed ng ms or on of re rs .
or le , if we in a ve es er ll on a et of ly , ed eb es , we ve es of ly in ng ew eb es to he es ed ve en et al . , .
et l of ed ng es
et u of ed es
rn nk - ed er h om l
rn ll - xt er f om l
ow h to el p ve nd n ve es om u
ow f to el p ve nd n ve es om u
dd se lf - ed es to l
le : a ng hm , or ng wo rs nd ng ed ta to st ir
le we an ve le cy er ng on ds of nd ed eb es , in is er we re ed in he on of ow ed ta an be ul .
in ct , is is a al on in ur eb ge on sk , se it is ly to nd el ds of eb es , nd se it is ry sy to in ds of ns of ed es om he eb .
ow an we se ed eb es to re ly rn to fy re es ? he er an be en by st ng at he eb ns an ng nd of nt on ut ch eb ge , as wn in re .
as wn in is re , we ld fy he eb ge er by ng he ds on he ge lf as ed in he ph ve , or we ld fy he ge by ng he ds on he ge nd ad ng he ds on ks at nt to he ge .
in ny es , he ds on he ks ll be nt to fy he le , nd he ds on he ge lf ll so be nt .
in ch es , we ll ay se wo ts of es he nk ds , nd he eb ge ds re ly nt to fy he le .
we ll ee ow at in al if he es x or me ed ng sk an be ed to ts of ly nt es , en ed ta an be ed to st he cy of rs ed th ed ed ta .
ng th ly nt es
ow an we se ed ta to st he ng cy or ur eb on em ?
ge - ed er nk - ed er ed er
le : or te in nt or ng eb es as se me es .
he op ow ws rs en ng on ly he ed es .
om ow ws rs en co - ng , ng th ed nd ed es .
he st mn ws he on cy en he wo rs re ed al es on he al on .
he ts ed re re he ge of ve nt ns of he hm th nt om ng es .
he ey ea is at we ll in wo nt rs er an ne .
ne er ll se ly he ds on he eb ge , nd he er er ll se ly he ds on he ks .
we in by ng th rs ng er ed ng es re le .
ly is ll lt in wo rs at re ct , ut er an om .
ow we se he ed ta as ws : ch er is ed to ne he ed ta nd to ck ts st ly ed ve nd ve es , nd dd se to he et of ed es .
in er ds , ch er is ed to nt he ol of ed es .
th rs re ow ed on is ed et of ed es , nd he ss is ed as ng as ed .
le es is co - ng hm .
hy ld is co - ng hm ad to re te rs ? he on is at if he nk er ds an ly ed " nk in he ed ta e . g . , ne at is te ar to ne of he ed es on ch it as ed , he eb ge at it ts to ll be ed to he ed ol of es as ll .
of se st se he nk ed to be sy to fy es ot an he eb ge ll be ly ed by he er er .
if ot , en he nk er as ed ul ng on to ve he er er .
ly , he eb ge er an dd es at re sy or it to fy , ut at de ul on to ve he cy of he nk er .
in ts , we ve nd at is ng hm es ve on cy in ne nt um nd ll , , ed en ng to fy eb es .
in le , we ed a er to el eb es as me es of ic es .
nt we ed st ed es , nd ly ed es wn om er ce nt eb es .
on ch on of co - ng , ch er as ed to dd ew ve nd ew ve es to he ol of ed es .
er ns of he ng hm , he cy of he ed er as , ed to en ly he ed ta as ed .
in is se , he ct of ng as to ce he or by er an a or of wo .
en he al ce at ng an be ul in at st ne se , it is ul to ze he al em ng in ch is nd of hm an et om ed ta .
re we ne a em ng in ch we an ve at ed ta ll be of lp .
to ne he al em ng at es he al re of ur eb on le , ll at er we ed a ed ng em as ne re we ve me et of es x , a et on f : x ! y , nd ed es i; f ig .
in he ng ng , we me ch a ed ng em in ch he es re wn om x ng to me ed ly wn ty on d .
we er me at x = x x; at is , he es in x an be ed to wo ts e . g , .
he nk ds nd he eb ge ds .
we re so at x nd x ch in on nt to fy he le .
in er ds , we re at re st me on g : x ! y nd me on g : x ! y ch at or ll x x; gx = gx = f x .
te he er is ot ed to ow f , g or g in ce .
we ly re at it be le to ss f in ms of x nd in ms of x i . e . , at x nd x th be nt to fy x ng to f .
if he ve ts on x nd x re ed , en we ll ay at x nd x re ly nt to fy x th ct to f .
in um nd ll we ow at if f : x ! y is ac le om sy ed ta , x nd x re ly nt to fy x th ct to f , nd if xb nd xb re ly nt en f x , en f an be ac ed en a ak al er us ly ed ta .
at is ns is at if he ed ta re nt to in a er an om al er , if x nd x re ed ly or ch et ue of f , nd if f an be ed ly en an ry er of ed es , en f an be ed to ar cy en st is ak al er nd an ry er of ed es .
he ce is at is es at ed es an te or ed es , er he ns of he em .
in um nd ll we so ow at ed ta is of al ue er he re al ng in ch x nd x re ot ly ed .
re we ow at if he ng ta is se - ee , en ss x nd x re ly ed e . g . , ne ue of x is ys ed th he me x , he ed ta an be of se .
er ng ks th ly nt es
en he ss of ng as a od or ng ed ta en ng to fy eb es , nd en he al on of he ss of ms or ch ng an be of se , it is ng to sk at er al ng ms ow is ch .
re we ze a er of ks :
ng to fy un es to ic es .
in lo nd es , an ch ar to ng as ed to he em of ng a ic on er un es in sh .
in is er , ne sk as to rn to fy un es as ve or ve es of ns e . g . , an an " is ve , ue " is ve .
in is se ch le , x , is a ce ch as we re ed in ly gh . " he on of x to wo ly nt re ts is ne as ws : x is he un se lf e . g . , gh " in he ve ce , nd x is he ic xt in ch he un se rs e . g . , we re ed in ly | " .
te at in st es it is le to ne er he un se is a on en er x or x .
te so at he es of x nd x re ed ly ly i . e . , th ht ee he me x as ve , ut th a nt x .
ng th a st of st wn un es , ir em ed an hm ar to ng to rn ns of al ns .
ng to ct rd se .
in ky , , an ch ar to ng as ed to ng to te rd es e . g . , to ne er he rd nt " rs to a ng nt or to a al nt .
re , ch ce x ds to a xt ng he rd in on ar to he lo nd es le ve .
er , he on of x is to re an wo ts , th ch rd ng as a te nt , nd is hm ms to ot ap ly to ng .
ut it is te ar , nd he em ld be ed ng a ng ch .
ng to ze es in ch .
in de sa nd rd , , an ch to ly ed ng as ed to a em th ly ly nt es .
in is se , he sk is to rn to fy ch es , ed on th he io al nd he eo al ng he rs ps .
re ch ce x ds to he ll ta , x ds to he io al , nd x ds to he eo al .
in , we ay ly me at er of x or x is nt to ne he me , nd re an in wo rs on ed ed ta , nd et em in ch er er he ed ta .
in ct , de sa nd rd se no ed ta at ll , ad ng a nd of ng in ch he io al st ct he eo , nd ce sa .
ir em as le to rn rs ng to he en es in he ta .
ct on in ia ta .
er he em of ng to ze ts in ia ta , ch as he us am of io , eo , nd er ry ut a on es .
a ry ar sk is to rn to fy on ts , ed on he ng am of eo , io , nd se ed xt .
in is er se , er he em of ng to ot on ts in ch is in rs .
re we ld er ch ce x to be a ot ng he io , eo nd xt at a ar me .
re x ld be he io , x he eo , nd x he xt .
te at in me es we ht ee sy " le of eo a ll ce of in , or an sy io is ce ut nd
se , or an sy xt he rd in .
us , we ld ct ng to de a ul ch to ng ed ta to in rs .
to my ge , is nt as ot
on nd ns
we ve ed a ss of ed ng ms or ch ed ta an be en to ve ng cy .
he ey ng es of is em ss re at he es x an be ed to wo or re ts x , x : : : , ch re ly nt to fy he le , nd se ts ry , so at a ar xi es ot ys co - ur th he me xj . .
we ve ed he ng hm at es ed ta or ch ms , nd ve ed al nd al ts ng at in se ms ed ta an ed be ul to ve cy or ed ng .
he on to an nd al ng rs to be a ch ea or re dy .
ns nd er ls ve a ch et of ry ut , ch es ly nt ta or ny ks .
or le , ll , on , nd an ll be ul in ng to fy er od is by , nd in ny es he ta om st ne of se ls is nt .
de sa nd ds ss th a ng - ke hm or ng to fy es om eo nd io ar to at ed by ns is so ve .
ps le ly ss an we ct on ed ta to ve ul ng or us on ks .
ks to my or on is rk , im um , or ny ng ns nd as .
an un , ie es , ew um , nd al am ve so ed as nd ns ng he ay .
is rk as en ed by pa er ch ct
