is nt as en ed
or ic se nd e; ts on is ed .
st ch on ne ng as ed on os in ch a er es a le , ed ng sk .
he ng ng rk es ad at he er rs a de of ed ng ks er ts me , ng he ty or he er of is er es ng ng in he xt of ry on .
it ts he ce ch , in ch ge is ed ia a ed el of he es of he in .
ts on ng to ze ts om or es te or on es if es re ed nd ed to as ' nt ng .
is ch is ed in rt by he al ce on er rd ri - 23 , nd by he ht ry , al ms er , ir ce el nd , af , nd he ed ch ts cy ( pa ) er nt er 23 - 23 - 23 - 23
ws nd ns ed in is nt re se of he rs nd ld ot be ed as ly ng al es or ts , er ed or ed , of sf , ht ry or he ed es nt .
ds : on - ed al rk ng , ng es , ng ng ,
ne ng , al ks , ct on
rd ve ed ng is ed th ng an wn et on om a te on of ng ta .
he rk of ed ng an be ed as ws .
et f te he et of ll al et ns .
or le , in a ot rm in f ht be he et of ll ic ns or ts th ee ts .
it is ly ed at ll ns in f re ed er a le ut ce , ed by i , nd a le ut ce , ed by 23
he er as a et of es at it an er , ed by h , ch ht or ht ot be nt om f .
or le , he et h ld be he et of ll al al ks th 23 en ts ( rt et al . , 23 , or , ly , he et of ll on es th th ss an 23 ( an , 23
ut is er , et us ke he ng on at ll ns in f re ry rs , by ng he ut to 23 = ( 23 , 23 ) .
we ll er to es at ll to ss i as ve es , nd to se at ll to ss 23 as ve es .
to rn an wn et on f* e f , he er is en a te on of ut -
ut es ( ng es )
ch re ly ed by se .
he al of he er is to te a is h e h , ch at he on
e = e ob ( i ) ! f* ( i ) - h ( i ) 23
en he et on f* nd h on re es ll be as ll as le .
re ob ( i ) is he ty on ng to ch he es re ed .
ob is ly wn to he er , as is f* .
rd ed ng es on ng a le et on f* , nd ng ta is ed to be le ly or is ne on .
er , if ns in f re ly ed , it an be ul to ve ss to ng es of er ns f in f as ll .
or le , er a ot se sk is to nd nd ch us ts , ng ts ra or ct on .
re et f be he et of on ns or ll ts , ne or ch al et ct , nd he et on f* e f ds to me ct he ot st ly rn to ze .
x , he ng et , ll st of ve nd ve es of is ct .
he sk of he er is to nd an h ch es e .
in er to do so , he ot st rn to ze he et ct nt of on , on , ng in ze , ge of ng nd so on .
ly , he re nd he er ' s al ng of se es , he er ng es in x it ll re or le ng .
se se es re on to ll ns in f , es ng er ts an de al on or ng ut se es , nd ce nt he ng et x .
is le es he ng ng rk ( un nd ll , 23
ng ng , a on of ed ng ms is ed er he me of he em .
en ng he n - th sk , he er ay re oy ge ed in he
" * a ce of le es h " * a et of ng es x of me wn et on f* e f , wn
th ty on ob .
" * in ng ng : a on of rt ts y = ( xk ) , ch ze
er ns fk e f
a is h e h at es 23 ob ( i ) f* ( i ) - h ( i ) ii
le 23 : rd ed ng nd ng ed ng .
us n - 23 ks to ve ts ce .
is er rs a ar rm of ng ng in ch he ng ks nd to ng an ns ( ts ) , nd in ch he us ce ts of ng es of er on ns om he me ly f .
re ly , in on to he et of ng es x or he et on f * , he er is so ed ts of es
xk = ( ( i , gk ( i ) ) )
( k = 23 , . . . , gi )
of er ns g = ( g , , 23 , . . . ) c f en om he me on ly f .
ce is al ta ts ng f* , we ll ll ch xk a rt et or x .
he et of ll le rt ts , ( xi , : k = i , . . . , ij , is ed by y .
ce at he rt ts xk re ot ly ed ng to he me ty on .
le i es he em ns of rd ed ng nd he ng ed ng em ed re .
in ng ng , he er is en a on of rt ts y in on to he ng et x nd he is ce y .
rt ts an be ed or a ty of al - ld ng ks .
or le , er a al er nt se sk it is to ze ts er ' s ng .
f is he et of ll gs om nd - wn es to er ls , ne or ch al er .
or ch er , i . e . , or ch f e f , he nt ld rt ng to ze ng om ch .
er , ny cs ll co - ur or le rs , nd ne ld ct a er ch es es om er rs to ze er .
a nd le , to ch ve ne ng es ve ly en ed , is ck et on .
le ny of he ul es in is in in ed , it ms to be ll - ed at ks an be ed er by ng om ta ng re es of ks , er an ng ut a le ck in on .
ly , in ns an be nd at ly to us ks , nd ng ut se es en ng ta is ed ll st ly ve he on cy of a ng em .
he ng ng rk ed in is er rs om rd ed ng in at in on to he ng ta x , rt ts y re so ed .
is es wo
ow an a er se rt ts to ze re ly ?
er at ns ll a er it om rt ts ? ly , he re ly ed he ns in f , he er .
ut ly at on ng se ns is ed in er or rt ts to be ul ? at ns if he ns in f re ot ed at ll ? an rt ts ad on nd , if so , er at ns ?
is er es ot de al rs to se ns .
ad , it es ne ar ch , ly ng ce ns , ch es on in ns on he on et f .
it so ts al ce at is ch to ng rt ts an ly ve on cy en ng to ze ts ed on al
23 he ce ch
he ce ch st ns an ce on o om he rt ts in y .
is on is en ed to as he er as it ts a is to it he ng es x of he et on .
et y = ( xk ) be a on of rt ts or ng f* om x .
ll ur on at ll ns in f ve ry ut es .
ce , ch le in a rt et is er ve ( i . e . , ut 23 ) or ve ( i . e . , ut 23 ) .
er a et on , fk e f th k e ( i . . . , fj ) , nd a ir of es , ay i e i dj e i .
a al ce or " rk : i x i - -
( 23 , 23 ) is a ng om a ir of ut rs ed as ws :
if a ( i ) = fk ( j ) = i if fk ( i ) # a ( j ) if fk ( i ) = fk ( j ) 23
ly , he al ce or es er th es re rs of ss i ( ve es ) ve to fk .
if rk ( i , j ) = 23 , en fk is nt th ct to i nd j .
ce at ve nd ve es re ot ed ly in r .
he al ce rs rk ( k = i , . . . , fi ) ne a ( al ) ce on or f , ( 23 , 23 ) .
or wo es , i nd j , ao ( i , j ) is 23 if re ts a k or
ed by a : i x i ch rk ( i , j ) = 23
se , a ( i , j ) is 23 if re ts a k or ch rk ( i , j ) = 23 :
if 3k e l , . . . , fi ) th tk ( i , j ) = 23 ke ( , . . . .
fj ) rk ( i , j ) 23
he ce on es ke an ce or , ut it es ot nd on k .
it is nt to ce at he ce on an be ll - ed .
is is he se if re st wo es ch in ne et on th ng to ss 23 , as in er ey ll to
3i , j e i , k , k ' e ( 23 , . . . , fi ) : rk ( i , j ) = i a tk , ( i , j ) = 23
in ch es he ce ng is us nd is ot en a al on .
a ss of ns f is id to ey he ce ty if ts ce on is on - us ' .
he ce ty is a al on or he ce ch to ng on ng .
he pt of ce ns is te ul .
me f ds he ce ty .
if a is wn , ry ng ce i or an ry on fk e f an be ly ed , en re is at st ne ve ce of fk le .
to ee , me po , e i is wn to be a ve ce or fk .
en or ny ce i e i , a ( i , zo ) ll be 23 if nd ly if fk ( i ) = 23
gh he ce ty es a on on he on ly f , it ds ue or te a ew al - ld ms .
or le , a on ly ys he ce ty if ll ve es ( of ll ns fk ) re nt .
ne ch on ly is he ly of ct on ns ed er ct ts .
23 ng th ts
in he ng ng me ed in is er , a - is ot en .
er , an on to o - an be ed .
ce ao es ot nd on he ic et on f* , ry rt et xk e y an be ed to in a ' , as ng as re is at st ne ve ce le in xk .
or ll k e ( i , . . . , il ) , ng es or a " re ed om es i , j e xk :
re rk st be ed , i . e . , at st ne of he es i nd j st be ve er fk .
in he ts ed ow , ao is ed by ng an al al rk ng he on hm ( rt et al . , 23
ce o , as en ed , ne ay to ic f* is to ck an ry ve ng ce in x , nd to se o " or on , as ed ve .
er , ao ht ot be te gh to fy ly , ly se of ng ns , se , or ck of ng ta .
in ct , he al ts ed in he xt on te at re re er ys to oy he ce rk .
23 ng es to de on
he er of is on es an ve ch ch ys a id al rk ng hm or ng f* .
is hm is a al se of th he nt - ' it is ly le or he ce on to be us , as ng as he od or ng
ly ed rs of es is ro .
re 23 : ng es nd es : et f* be he et on or ch ee es ( x 23 , f* ( 23 ) ) , ( 23 , f* ( 23 ) ) , nd ( x 23 , f* ( x 23 ) ) re wn .
ed on se ts he er ht te he is hi .
if he es re so wn , he er an do ch er : h , .
op hm ( rd et al . , 23 nd he on - ed al rk ng ( nn ) hm ( ll nd un , 23
re we ll er to it as nn .
se we re en a ng et x , nd an ce rk a ch as en ed ng a on of rt ts y .
we re ow ed in ng f* .
ne ld , of se , re he ce rk nd he rt ts er nd in a al rk ly ed on he ng ta x .
he ng et x es a on of ts on he ut es or he is h .
if h is ed by an al al rk , as is he se in he ts ed ow , he on ( bp ) hm an be ed to it x .
nn es is , ut it so es al ts ng he ce rk .
re ly , in on to he ue ts in x , nn es ts on he es ( ts ) or he is h .
to ee ow is is ne , er a ng le i , en om he ng et x .
et ip , be an ry ve le in x .
en , o ( i , po ) es er i nd iz ' s ng to he me ss - on at is ly le , ce we re en he es of i nd ip .
er , ng he ss ng he ce rk so ws us to ne he ut - ut es of he ce rk .
se es re he ty of ss ip th ct to he ut es in i .
is is ne by ng he al ve of a th ct to i at ( i , os ) :
io ( i )
" - - 23 23 ( , i p
ia ( i ) es ow al es in i ll ct he on of i .
ce ar ( - , ip , ) is an on to f* , ia ( i ) es he pe if ( i ) .
ly , ad of ng ng es of he pe ( i , f ( i ) ) , nn ts ng es of he pe
nt nt an be ed to it ng es of is pe , as ed in ( rd et al . , 23
23 es he ty of is al pe on in on ng .
ce if le ve es re le in x , es an be ed or ch ne of
et os c x be he et of ve ng es in x .
et x ' = 23
or ch ng le ( i , f* ( 3i ) ) e po do :
( a ) te ia ( i ) =x 3a ( i ) ( i
ii , e ra
( b ) tx ' = x ' + ( i , f* ' ( i ) , za ( i ) )
it x ' .
s ) ng he ce rk a .
le 23 : on of nn to ng th ce ks .
in is se , ed es re ed to in he et on :
r ( i , i ( id : 23 ) ~ ) ( |
re xp c x es he et of ve es in x .
he on of he nn hm to ng th ce ks is ed in le 23
ly ng , pe on ed om he ce rk is a ar ap - on to he es nd es of f at a ic nt in l .
ng he nt ns es ll be ly ro , le ng rs ey ll be ge .
or le , in he ct on in ed ve , it ht en at or is an nt re or on le ss is ot .
is is ly he se in ns th ng on .
in is se , he ce rk ld rn to re ss , nd ce he es of ts on th ct to ss ld be ly ro .
he es or or , er , ld be ge , en at ht or es ly at he ct ld ng to a nt ss .
en ng he on rk , es de al on ut he ty of he et on th ct to ts ut es .
ce , he ce rk an be id to as he ng of he on rk .
er , ce nn ns on th es nd es ly , rs in is as ( ct es ue to ns in he ed ce rk ) an be ed by he ed ng le es in x .
23 ct on
to te he ce rk in a al - ld in , we ed a se of 23 or ra es of en nt ts , as ed in ig .
23 ( ft ns ) .
ue nd te
er wn nd ck um ng on ve
he ts re en so as tc de or nd ze es ul to ir on .
he nd of ll es ed of in , te rd .
nt es of he me ct ed by he ve on nd on of he ct in he ge .
in 3% of ll gs , he on of he ht ce as so ed , ng ht ns at om ns in us es .
in me of he es he ts re ck - it , in ch se ey ed to be ck .
23 ws es of wo of he ts , he oe nd he es .
23 es of ch ct re ed .
in ll ur ts es re ed by a 23 - al or , ng or , ss nd on on or a wn - ed ge of ze 23 by 23
es or he wn - ed es re wn in es 23 ( ht ns ) nd 23
gh ch ct rs to be sy to ze om he al ge , in ny es we nd it lt to ly fy ts om he ed es .
er , ng as ry to ep he ks at a le ze .
he et of et ns , f , as he et of ns at ze ts , ne or ch ct .
or le , he or on or he le , ol . , as i , if he ge ed a le , nd 23 se .
ce we ly ed ct ts , ll ts of ve es re nt .
ly , f ed he ce ty .
he et of es h as he et of ll al al ks th 23 ut ts , 23 en ts , nd i ut it , as ch a rk as ed to nt he et on .
he ve as to rn to ze es , i . e . , f* = ho .
ve er ts , ly he le , he at , he er , he an nd he ok , re ed to ct he rt ts v .
in er to id ny ap in he ng et x nd he rt ts in y , we ly ed es of a th ct , es , as es or ho .
23 ng he ce rk
ch of he ve rt ts in y , le , xh . , , xh . me , ya , nd ok , ed 23 es of he ng ct ( ve es ) nd 23 ly ed es of er ts ( ve es ) .
en ng ng es or he ce rk , we ly ed a et of 23 , 23 rs of es , 23 of ch re ng or ng nd 23 or ss - on .
3% of he al ng nd ss - on es re ve es or he ce rk ( i . e . , th es ed he me ct ) , nd he er 3% re ve es .
re 23 : ts ( ft ) nd ng rk ts ( ht ) .
a ed es of a le .
a at , a er , a ke an , nd a ok re ed to in nd st he ce rk .
ds , he on rk as ed to sh he oe om he es .
in al ts to ct an ce rk , ng a ty of rk es th up to wo en rs , we ed a um on cy of 3% .
is lt as at ry , ce om ng , by on , ts in 3% ac - cy .
en ed to he wo ng en ts , he oe nd he es , he st ce rk ed ly 3% of ll ge rs ly .
in er to ve se ts , we ed a ng ue at es ng by ng al ng on , ed om th nd en , 23
( na , 23
ir ue ts on he on at in on to he ! ng sk of st , me ed ng ks , ng he me ut on nd he me ng ta ( th nt et es ) , re le .
ad of ng on a le sk , a rk is
re 23 : es , ng th he ng rk ts , of he ts oe nd es .
se es te me of he es in he ct on in .
ed on ll ks ly , ng an ed ut er at es al ut ts or he al ks .
is ue , ch is ed " ng by ts " or " ti - sk ng , " as en nd to ld er on es , ch an be ed to he ct at ll of se ks re he me en ts .
if ks re ly ed , it ws er en ns to be ed , ng in ed on .
in ct , is ch es an ve od or he ng ng em , as ed in ct .
in he ct on in , a sk at is ly ed to ng er or ot wo es ng to he me ss is he sk of ly ng he wo es .
ce , we ed wo ts of 23 ut ts to he ce rk , ch re ed to ne he on of he ct wn in er ge .
a al i - of - n ng as ed to de he 23 nt ct es .
ce , he ed ce rk ad i i ut ts , ne or ng if he wo es re he me or ot nd 23 or ng es .
he er 23 ts , er , re ed ly ng ng he ce rk , nd id ot ay ny rt in ly ng he ce rk .
he on cy of is rk as ly er an he cy of he le ut rk ed ve .
er ng , he ed rk ed to ne er or ot wo ts ng to he me ss th 3% on cy .
it so ed 3% on cy in
he ew sk , he on of he oe .
ly , th cy es re ly er
an se ed ng he le ut rk .
23 ng to ze es
ng ed he ce rk , we re ow ed in ng he on rk .
he rk ed ut he ts ed re ed of 23 ut ts , 23 en ts , nd i ut it - no rt as de to ze he rk gy .
a al of 23 es of es ng he oe nd he es re le or ng nd ng he oe on rk .
he al on ng he ce ch is to at nt he ce rk , en ed to as he et on , es he on cy of he on
in er to te he le of he ce rk , we ed he on rk ng ly wo ng es : a ly ed ge of he oe ( ve le ) , nd a ly ed ge of he es ( ve le ) .
es re ed ng he ly ed ce rk .
ce he es to he et pt , he es , rm a ue ss of es at do ot ap th ny er ve ss om he rt ts , es ld so be ed ng ve es .
ad of ng eq .
( i ) , es re ed om he ce et ng he ed re :
23 i pn
re xt , , c x is he et of ve es in x , nd x , .
= x - x . o is he et of ve es .
( 23 ) rs om eq .
( 23 ) by ng so ve es 23 , , s to nt , ch is ed by he ct at es of es rm a ss nt om ll er ts .
23 ws he ge on ve as a on of ng hs th nd ut he ce rk .
he on cy re as ed er ll 23 le es .
he ve ws he on cy ed er 23 ts , ch ed ng ne ly ed ve nd ne ly ed ve le . 23 ut ng he ce ch , he ge on cy er 23 , 23 ng hs is 3% .
er , ng nn th he ce rk es cy to 3% ue to he on ed by he ce es .
is ce an be ed in le ys .
in ms of al or , on ts a on te at is 3% er an at of nn .
a nd on is to ok at he ce se .
ch is ed as he ce in on cy er ng nd re ng , ng at he cy re ng is 3% .
23 : nn ' s ce se is 3% , ch is 23 es er an on ' s 3% .
or le , if a al rk is ed ng he wo es of a oe nd he es ed in ig .
23 , in on es ly 3% of he ng es ly .
te we ed a st ng od at ed he nt of um on - ne ng ng .
re 23 : ng es , th ( id ne ) nd ut ( ed ne ) he ce rk nd nn , ed on an nt st et nd ed er 23 ns , er ng ne ve nd ne ve ng le .
re he on te is ly or , ce he on of hk ts er , nd on ly rs on he al re or ct on .
nn ng he ce rk es a rk at is ch ss ve to ct on , ng in a 3% on cy in is ar le .
te at he rk ed by nn ms ly er an he ce rk lf ed as a er ( 3% ) .
is is se nn is ed on es of he oe nd he es , le he ce rk is ot .
he ce of ng es es ar by ng at he cy at is ed en es re ed ly .
if es re ly ed by ng an ge th lf ( i . e . , th es of he ce rk re nt ) , he ge al cy is 3% .
en ly se nt es re ed as ut to he ce rk , he ng cy is 3% .
th es re ly er an he 3% cy ed by ng he wo .
we so ed ts ng he es of es .
in ne se , we ed he on cy of he in ry ( b* ) as he ng or : he re te he ce rk or a ar ng le , he er he ht of he ng pe in he re .
is gy , ch as en nd to be ul ss a ty of ns ( ll et al . , 23 , ( un , 23 ed ut nt ce ( 3% ) in he ct on in .
he er ld ce at ll se ts er to he on cy er 23 , 23 ng hs , ng st ne ve nd ne ve ng le .
as an be en in ig .
23 , on rs om me er - ng , as he cy ps er a ak at ut 23 , 23 ng hs .
he ge on cy at is nt in me is 3% .
er , ue to ck of ta , it is le in is in to se ly ng ds at ly on ss on , nd it is ar er ch ds ld ve ed he ts or on ly .
3a ws us ts or ng th wo es of th es nd es .
re , he ce en nn nd on is en er .
nn es 3%
re 23 : ( a ) ed on cy en ng on wo ve nd wo ve ng es .
( b ) on cy or nt er of ng es er 23 , 23 ng hs .
al cy , as ed to 3% by in on .
ly , on ' s on te ds at of nn by 3% .
nn ' s ce se is 3% , ch is 23 es er an on ' s 3% .
ts or ts th er ng et es re ed in ig .
as an be en om is re , he ce en he ds es as he er of ng es es .
nn , er , es to rm ly er an in on .
is es ur ns , as he ed or nd ge es as he er of ng es es .
er , he ry us of is er is ng en ng ta in x is ce .
23 he le of he ce rk
he ed on es , ch te he ul er of ge om he rt ts ia he ce rk , se he on at ly re he es ed in is rk .
at pe on do he es ey ?
a le ( ut ly te ) re of he ce of a re is he de of ts es .
he er he es , he er he ct of ll es in he re on he on , ce he re nt he re .
in er to ly ss he ce of es , ge pe es re ed or ll ut ls , ed er ll 23 rs of ng es .
he st ge pe de as nd or or on : 23 .
in on , on es re , on ge , ly 23 ( is is 3% of he ge or or es ) , nd ss es ly 23 ( 23 23 % ) .
se rs te at , ng to he ce rk , or on as st nt or on .
to fy is is , we ed ur ts ng me of he ge on .
re ly , in ne nt or on as ed , in a nd on , nd ss in a rd .
he ts
ce rk on , no nn 23 ng le er ss me , er 23 , 23 ng hs ge wn in ig .
23 23 ng es er ss ly ts of me ss ed or ng es ly ts of nt ss ed or ng es ng es by on cy
le 23 : ry of he on ts ed in he er .
ll rs re ge on es on en ng ta .
ut ce rk th ce rk
23 23 %
ed ur ef at or on ed es on .
it is ar at ut or he on es in he ng et re or , gh nn ll es er .
if on or ss is ed , er , he on te is ly nt to he ts ed or he ll es ed ve .
er , ng ed ly re ng hs in he ce of ss on ( ot wn re ) .
se nd er ts ed re re ed in le 23
23 ws ge pe es or he et ry ( es ) th ct to he ee ut es , or , ss nd on .
ey rs te at he ge pe or an ut el is ro .
ht nd rk rs te ly ve nd ly ve es , ly .
ce at se es re ed er ll 23 ns ed or ng .
as is ly en , ge or es ry er he ge , ng a ht ve cy on ge .
ge on es re ly ro .
ss es , er , it a ng ve cy ch is st in he er of he ge .
ne le on or he er on is he ng : th he oe nd he es re rk ed to he nd .
es re , on ge , er an es , nd ce ll re ls .
in on , in he ty of es he ct as re ar he er of he ge , as he er ls ed ly re se .
ck of ss in he ge er is re a od or or he ce of he oe , as is ly ed in he ss es ed
re 23 : es of he et pt ( es ) th ct to ( a ) or , ( b ) on , nd ( c ) ss .
ry pe is ed er 23 ns .
te ( ck ) or ts ve
om he ce rk .
he ss us ts or or nd on an be ed to he ct at al rs re on - ar in or nd on .
in er to te ts by or , or le , he rk as to ot a ic al in or ce .
ce , he ct es an be er ve or ve ng in he ar or of a el , ng ch er ut in is ot .
as ed ut er , es de st - er on , nd es ay ll be en in er - er es .
er , th he or ce of nn as ll as he ar on of pe es nd on cy ow at nn es to ct ul ce on in is in , en if se es fy le
23 ve es
le in is er we ve ed ne ar ch to ng ng in he xt of on , ny rs re le nd al an be nd in nt re .
e ng al ns .
er rs rt es to op re te en er ns om le ks .
or le , tt ed a od ch ed on by ng an al on at as ed in er ng ks ( tt , 23
a ar ue as en ed in ( ey nd ey , 23
a nd le of ng al ns ng le et ns is na ' s ti - sk ng hm .
in is ch .
le , ed ks re ed ly in a le al rk , ng he ks to re en ts .
he ts at en al ns re ed ch ad to ed on ( na , 23
ce at se ts ch ur gs en ng he ce rk .
ll se es op er al ns of he ta by ng le ns in f th he al of ng on .
" ng nt es .
er ch , ch rs se ce to ng es nd ng ns , is to ot nt es ( ne , 23 , ( na nd ag , 23 ) .
if he et of et ns f is ch at - ss he rd - ly a et he es is nt ( e . g . , he me of ay ay ot er or ct on ) , a ng em an oy rt ts to nd he st nt es .
ce ey re ed , he ng is ce is er , ch es he le ty in ng .
ce at nn ns he ce of nt es gh ro - ed es nn .
" ng he ta .
a nt ch to ng ng is to fy he dr he ng et x or in he rt ts y .
or le , ne re is a ge ! le at an be ed to ll ns in f , ut it es at ta is re ch f e f es an al er .
is is he se , or le , in es to er on .
er on es a ly of es ed in ch on , in ch a er ly ts to he nt , ce , ch , or ed of an al er ( ee ( ld nd el , 23 or an le ) .
ly , ch is ed to a re ne - le ch by a er - ic le at ws ck on .
er on is an le of an ch in ch ng ta x is ed to it ly ed es .
in ce , ll se es ge he as of he on or .
ey er in he ay as is ed , nd in he on ey ke on he ng on ss f .
a ty of es im to ge he as of an ve on or in a re ct ay .
or le , on ( on , 23 es an ch at ys an rs to ne al ng es .
on ( on , 23 23 es es or ng he ce ic in a st or er .
in ( on nd re , 23 , an al od or he on of st or ls is ed .
ng th a is et h , is ue es ng ta nd ss - on to ly ce h .
er , ny of he es ed re ve ot en ed in he xt of ng re an ne sk .
it ld be ed at he ce ch rs me ce to ng es nd in he xt of us ng nd er on .
rd nd es ( rd et al . , 23 ed he nt - op hm or ng nd - ed rs .
ce er on ld be nt to on nd on , ey ly ed ro - ed et es in he ns of se es , ry ch ke se ly ed by nn .
au ( au , 23 ts a ar ue at as ed or ng an us le .
ed on ge ut he on of ra es nd ng on , he ed al ng ta at re ed en ng he rk .
is ue an be ed as an ve on of rd ' s ch .
in th es , in ge as ed to te es to al rk ng .
he ce ch ed re rs in at a el of he es is ed om ng ta , ng it le in ns re he te rt ge is ot le om a an er .
in he ng ng rk , he er es a on of ed ng ks .
he ge of is rk is to er ge ss ks , in er to ze er om er ng es of he et on lf .
he al ts ed in is er de ar ce of or al - on in he ct on in , en es ed om ed ks re ed to nt he ng ta or a ew ct on sk .
er , he ss of is ce ch es on al al ns :
" ll ed ce ns st on he on at f ys he ce ty .
er , en if he ce ty is ly ly ed by f , he rt ts an be ed to in an ce rk .
is rk ll , in he al se , ch he ed a - ue .
he ct on in ed ve es an le in ch he ce ty ay ld ly ly .
is is se nt ts ay ok ke in he se - ed , sy es , in ch se ey te he
" it is so ed at ns in f ss in es ch an ly be ed by he ce rk .
is ct es ot ow om he ce ty .
he ct es at ll be ed nd ly on he ut on nd on or ed or a .
" we so ed at he ut ce 23 of ns in f is ry .
er , is on is ot al or he ce ch .
in le , ce ns ay be ed or ry , gh - al ut es , en at a on of ce en ut rs is le .
or le , if he on ce f ns ti - , rn , he al or ce al al - ed ns of he pe f : wm r ) es a al ce tk : 23 , , or nd ce an ce on .
is on , er , rs om a ed in he ry se in at no ar ss es re ed , nd no on is de en ve nd ve es .
, r th rk ( i , j ) = fk ( i ) -
fk ( j ) i ( i , e
in he ts ed ve , ll ee ns re at st ly ed .
we re at he al ld rs a ty of ks re ed es an st on .
or le , ms ch as ce on , ve ng on , ck et on nd ch on , ch ss on - al ut nt ri - es .
or le , er he em of ng to ze es of us ls .
re in ts re nt or he ul on ( e . g . , he ce en he es ) , as rs re ss nt ( e . g . , he on in ch he on is ng ) .
er ng on a er of ls , we re at he ce rk ht sp me of se es , ng he ty of ng es of ew ls .
it ld be ed at in is er ng ng is ed to ne ar ss of ng ms , ly ry on ks .
in is xt , al ve ns ve
en de , st of ch re ed om rd ed ng .
it is ed at ll ns ( nd ce ll es in x nd y ) re wn om a ic on ss f , in ch ll ns re he me ut nd ut ce .
er , 23 is ed to be ( 23 , l ) .
in ng he ce rk , er ns re de on he on of he et ns in f .
he ng ng rk , er , is re al .
it ly es at a er rs a de of ed ng ks er ts re me .
he sk of he er ed ot ly be on .
or le , ng ng an be ed in on on , ed ng , ol ng or er ng ms .
it is so ot ed at he rt ts , ch in ed ng ta , nd he ng et em om a ss of ns ng a on ut nd ut ce .
or le , ol ng ay it om ng ta ed in a on in , gh he ol on es er nt ut nd ut es .
or le , in ( ll nd un , 23 nd ( un , 23 ) ol ng is ed in a ng ng rk .
in ol ng , he et on f* is a ol on ch ps ts , ed by s e s , to ns , ed by a e a :
fp : s - - - - a
ns , en ed by he nt , lt in me ar ty / rd , nd he al of ng is to ze rd .
a ar od or ng ol is nt ng ( to et al . , to ar ) , ( on , 23 , ( ns nd an , 23
nt ng ts ue on at an be ed to ct al ns .
ed in a ng ng rk , a ol ng nt ay ce a ty of ol ng ks er ts me .
as wn in ( ll nd un , 23 , ng on ls , ch re ns of he pe
g : s - - - + s ,
an ly ce he nt of ng ed or nt ol ng ks .
nn is ed to er ge ss ks , as in he ce ch ed in is
he ng ng em an so be od as a ta - el ng em .
er , or le , ts on to on , as ed in is er .
ch ng le at he ta - el dg to a le rt et xk at he se - el .
he et of rt ts y = ( xk ) us ms he et of ng es at he ta - el .
he ng et is x , ch is he et of ng es or he et on f* at he se - el .
a nt on to be de is at he se - el is ce h is a et of f .
en , he is ce at he ta - el is a et of ns on h , or , in er ds , a et of ts of h .
he al of ng on he ta - el is to ct f ( or nd a al et of f ) as a is ce or he se - el .
ch ng le xk es he ta - el is ce .
if f is a te is in he ta - is ce , ne ts at in he it h = f is he ly is ft at he ta - el .
ce ch rt et es a on in f , ry ng le at he ta - el ll be a ve le of he et
pt f .
ly , re an be no ul as - ee ng at he ta - el ny re an re an be at he se - el .
er , te he ng es en rd ed ng nd ta - ng , re re nt es .
en a ar et on , f e f , he te al of ng is to ze he on or or f* .
ng f is a ry al , ce it is ul ly in rt of ng f * .
x , ch es a le ng rn in he ta - el , es ot fy f* ly .
ad , it es a ly ll nd sy et of ut - ut es of f* .
in on , es on he ta - el ay ry in th , ce he er of ng es in a rt et ay ry .
in er to rn at he ta - el , re le gs re ed an se at re ly ed in ed ng .
he ce rk es ne ar ch ng , ch ks ly if he al on ce f ds he ce ty .
he ce rk es ot ly be a is ss - er , it es pe ts at , en ed to he ng of he se - el er , in ts ce of es .
he al on of is er is er ng an be de er en he er as dy ed er ed ks .
ll a em at is " ed " to rn ze er an a ce er ? is er es ng ts in an ct on in .
er , st ns at se in he xt of ng ng ll ck ry , re al rs .
we ct at re ch in is on ll be nt to ng nd he ic ds ed th ng le ed ns .
we nk ro er or ul ts on an er ft of is er .
