ct .
er he st de , al ic ce ng ( ri ) as ed as a ul ew nt to ct st es of ta ut ty in he an in .
a al ri nt an ce a ee - al ge ed to he an ts in ty ry lf nd , at a al on of a ew rs .
as in er rn al es , is ew on as ed to a od of ew ta , nd a ng ed or ew ta is ds .
we be nt ch ng ne ng ds to he em of ng he ve te of a an ct ed on mi ta ed er a le me al .
in ar , we nt se es in ch we ve ly ed rs to sh ve es ch as ( 23 ) er he an ct is ng at a re or a ce , ( 23 ) er he ct is ng an us or on - us ce , nd ( 23 ) er he rd he ct is ng is a rd ng od , le , gs , tc .
is ng em es an ng se dy of er ng om ly gh al ( 23 es ) , ly se ( ns of ng es ) , sy ta .
is er es he ts ed in se ee se es , as ll as ns ed ut ow to ly ly ne ng ds to in rs in ch gs .
on , an er , rt or ne , st or , in ge is
ic ta is , al ic ce ng , gh al ta , re
he dy of an in on as ed a us st in nt rs om he nt of al ic ce ng ( ri ) , a in ng od at ly es ur ty to ve es of al in ty in an ts at gh al on ( al rs ) , ss he re in .
is ri gy rs he se of ry ew es to ng an ve es , ed we an op te ta is ds to ke se of is ge me of ta .
a ty - te ri on th a le an ct es
ll et al .
a es of ee al in es ch ng ly 23 , 23 ls , ed ce er nd , ng ns of ns of ta ns .
ce ts nt , ri as en ed to ct ds of es at fy ic ns of he in at re ed on ge en a an ms a ar ve on ( e . g . , ng , al ry ) .
he st ty of is ed rk ts ve cs of in ty , ed by ng er ri ta ed er le me ls , in ch he ct ds to ed li of me pe ( e . g . , ng a ty of ds ) .
in is er we er a nt al : ng ne ng rs to au - ly de he ts ve te at a le me nt or al .
he al re is to ke it le to ct nt ve es , er an ze ty ed er ny es .
is ty ld ly be ul in ng he en ve es of a ct ng a le , ic sk .
ch er ng es re so ly le to al is ms ch re en st as on ms , ch as ng rs se .
le he es we ss re re ll in ir cy , nd he re al ch of ng ve cs es to te ri ch , is ve ta is ch ed on ne ng as dy un to in ce in he ce nd al cs ch es ( e . g . , er et al . , 3; ox & oy , 3; ll et al . , 23 ) .
is em in is so te ng om he ve of ne ng , se it es a se dy of er ng om ly gh al , se , nd sy ta .
in ur se es we er ms re he es re ed by 23 , 23 es , nd re we ve ss an a en , ry sy , ng es er ss .
gh al om ht st er ng ld be le in ch me gs , in ct we ve nd it is le in is em in , by gn of te re on , re on nd er ng ds ed to se em cs .
in is er we st de a ef on to ri , en be al ri ta ts we ve ed , he ne ng es we ed , nd ns ed ut ow st to ly ne ng es to he em of ng ve es ed on le al ri ta .
al ic ce ng
al ic ce ng ( ri ) is a ue or ng ee - al es ed to al ty in he in gh me .
re ly , ri es he io of ed in to ed in in he od th ct to a ol ne , at ny al ns in he in .
it is ly ed at od en el is ed by al al ty , nd ce is od en el nt ( ld ) se is ly en as an or of
an ri er es he ue of he ri al ( ld se ) at ll he ts in a ee al id , or ge .
in he es ed in is er , a ee
ng to de ve es om in es
al ge is ed ry 23 , 23 , or 23 ds .
we er to he ls in is ee - al ge as ls ( me ts ) .
he ls in a al ri dy ve a me of a ew ns of ic rs , nd a al ee al in ge ly ns 23 , 23 to 23 , 23 ls ch in al er nd re us of st .
le he al on of ri is ly er an at ed by er in ng ds , ch el ss ns on he er of ds of ds of ns .
he al se of he ri ld al is ed er al ds .
en an se of al ty , ch as he ty in al ex in se to a sh of ht , he ri ld se ed th is se of al ty es or ny ds .
it ly es to a um er ly ur to ve ds , ng to ne ls er er ve to en ds .
te is ed al se , me rs ( e . g . , on et al . , 23 ) ve ed at he ve ng of ts an be ed to in a ew ns of ds ( e . g .
to sh he ve ng of wo es of ne in he ft ye nd ne in he ht ye ) , ng pe at at st me al cs of in on an be ed at nd on ng ri .
a ll on of ri ta is ed in re 23
is re ws ta ed er a en nd al ng ch he ct ad a rd , ed er it as a un or rb ( in is se , it as a rb ) , en ed or er rd .
is ta as ed ce er nd or en ds , er en ar es , ne of ch is wn in he re .
ed rk ng ri ta
er nt rs re as en a ng st in he er ce ty in ta ng or ri .
ne ar le of ng es ng ed ar ls ( lm ) as in on et al .
( 3a , 3b ) nd ly ( 23 ) .
re a on is ed or ch el , to ct he al ue at at el , ed on es of he us .
he ee to ch el ty an be ed om us es is en as an on of he ee to ch he ls ty is ed to he us .
ce is on em ( ct el ty en he us ) is ly he se of he em we er re ( ct ve te en ll el es ) .
rs ve ed t - cs to ne nt ve ls , nd et rs ve ed re ex al ds to te rs of he ld se in he ce of se ( se , 23 ) .
us ds or ng me es ve en ed or ng ri ta .
or le , en - en , en , nd en ( 23 ) ed en ov ls ( mm ) to rn a el of ty in he al ex ng om a ng ht us .
gh he am as ot ld he us , he on - ff us as ed as he en te by he mm .
a ty of ed ng ds ve so en ed or ry is of ri ta .
or le , te et al .
( 23 ) ed he se of ng ds or ri ta .
ne ar ch ( ny , 23 ) ed he on of on
ll et al .
re 23
al ri ta .
he op on of he re ws ri ta or a ed et of ls in he ex , om a wo - al ge ne gh he in .
a en nd al of ri ta is ed at ch el on .
he or on of he in is at he op of he re , or at om .
he ft de of he in is wn on he ht , ng to rd al on .
he ll ee - al in ge ts of en ch ge es .
he om on of he re ws ne of se ts in er il .
ng is al he ct as ed a rd , ed er he rd as a un or rb , en ed or er rd .
on to te re ls to er he ta .
rs ve ed le ts is nd nt ts is ( wn et al . , 23 ) to ne al - al rs at an be ly ed to ct he ri
ng to de ve es om in es
le re as en le rk on ur ic em of ng rs to de ve es , re re al rs ng rk th ly ed ls .
or le , by et al .
( 23 ) ed at nt ns of ri ty re ed en a an ct ws a ph of a ce us a se , us a oe , us a ir .
le ey id ot ly se se ed ns to fy nt le - nt ta , ey id rt at by ng he ri ta or ch ph ry to wo es , ey ld ly ch he le ns ed to he me ry .
re ly ( ox & oy , 23 ) ed rt or ne nd ar nt is to a ar et of ta to ly fy ns of ri on ed by he on of hs of us es of ts .
rs ( er et al . , 23 ) ed at ey ve en le to ke er - an - om ns ng er a ly ed rd ll be ed er , ed on he de of ty in in ts of ft al nd al es ng at on .
in on to rk on ri , re as en ed nt rk ng ne ng ds to ta om er es ng in ty .
or le , tz , io , nd er ( 23 ) be ts ng rs of in es or le al eg ta , le ( ms et al . , 3; er et al . , 23 ) rt ng in te rs or es ed ia on on hy ( et ) .
he rk ed in he nt er ds on ur er ch ed in ll
( 23 ) nd ng , on , nd ll ( 23 ) .
is on ey es ur ch to ta ng , ng rs , nd
ta on nd ng
in he ri es ed re , ta re ed om al ts om he ty ty .
al es ed en ve nd en ts , nd we ly ed a et of se ts th he st , st sy ri al to in ur rs .
ta re ed to ve ts ue to ad on , al ft , nd er es , ng he co am ( dy et al . , 23 ) . 23 ll el ty es re ed by he nt ce om ir an ue ng st ns ( en he ct is ed to ax , nd ot rm ny ar sk ) .
se ed es re ed as ut to ur rs .
in al es , we nd it ul to fy ic ly ed ns of st ( is ) in he in of ch ct .
to ve is , wo es of in es re ed or ch ct .
he st pe of ge , ch as en ed up to is nt in he er , es in on ia he ld se , nd is ed to as a al ge .
he nd pe of ge , ed a al ge , es he ic al in re at er on .
or ch ct , is al ge as ed to fy he al ns of st , ng he on me of
ll et al .
ss et al .
( 23 ) nd er et al .
( 23 ) .
or ch ct , he an of ir al es as en co - ed to he al ge , so at al ls in he al es ld be ed th he is ed in he al ge .
ng ds
in is er we re he se of ne ng ds to te on ns of he ng rm
f : ri - ce ( 23 , 23 ) te
re ri - ce ( 23 , 23 ) is he ce of ri es ed ng he on - us me al ( 23 , 23 ) , nd re te is he et of ve es to be ed .
ch of ur ta ts es ri ta om le an ts .
pt re se ed , we ed a te on on or ch ct .
we ed a ty of ds or ng ri - ce ( 23 , 23 ) as ut to he er .
in me es we ed he ut as a or of al el es , a nt ty or ch el nd or ch ge ed ng he al ( 23 , 23 ) .
is an be an ly gh al re or , ng of ds of ds of es en at a al ge ns 23 , 23 to 23 , 23 ls , nd a ng le an de ns of es .
re , we ed a ty of es to ng he on of is re or , ng ds or re on , as ll as ds at ce le re es by ir an .
se re on nd re on ds re ed in il in on 23 .
we ed a er of er ng ds , ng :
an ve es ( nb ) .
he nb er es he ng ta to te he ty on er ri ns , ed on he ts ve te .
it en es a ew le ( id : 23 ) x = ( id : 23 ) 23 .
xn ( id : 23 ) by ng he ty p ( ci | ( id : 23 ) x ) of ve te ci en ri on ( id : 23 ) x .
it es is p ( ci | ( id : 23 ) x ) ng es le , ng th he on at he es x j re ly nt en he ss :
p ( ci | ( id : 23 ) x ) =
p ( x j | ci ) p ( x j | ck )
re p es ns ed by he nb om he ng ta .
ch is - on of he rm p ( x j | ci ) is ed as a te an , ng um od es of he an nd ce ed om he ng ta .
ri - ns of he rm p ( ci ) re ed as li , in ng um od es ed on ng ta .
en a ew le to be ed , he nb ts or es or ch ve te , ed ng he ve la .
p ( x j | ci ) .
we ed wo ts of he nb , ch er ly in ir ch to
he te an ns
ng he es of
ng to de ve es om in es
nb - ce , it is ed at he ce of el x j is al or ll es ci .
is le ce is ed by he le ce of he ed ta or x j en om ll es ( th he ss an ed ut of ch ue ) .
in nb - ce , he ce is ed ly or ch el nd ss .
rt or ne ( vm ) .
we ed a ar el rt or ne ( ee ,
or ce , es ( 23 ) ) .
k st or ( nn ) .
we se k st or th a an ce ic ,
ng es of 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 nd 23 or k ( ee , or ce , ll ( 23 ) ) .
ng ts
ed rs re ed by ir ss - ed on or en ng an - ed on ns .
en re an wo es re ed , ur rs ut a nk - ed st of he al es om st to st ly .
in is se , we ed he ss of ch on by he ed nk of he ct ss in is ed st , ch we er to as he ed nk or .
us , he ed nk or es om 23 en he ct ss is ed st ly , to 23 en it is ed st ly .
te is ed nk or is a al on of on or en le es re ed , nd is al to on or en ly wo es re ed .
te so at om ng ds an ed ed nk or of 23 ss of he er of es er on .
to te rs , we ly oy k - ld ss - on , ng ut ne le er ss on ch ld .
in he ta ts ed in is er , he ng es re ed ( i . e . , he er of le es is he me or ch ng ss ) .
us , by ng ut ne le er ss we in a ed ng et or ch ld , ch ly ts he ss rs .
se he ri ld se is ed ut er al ds , a ct ve - ut - ne - le - er - ss on an es ce ic es of he ue er or .
he on is rd : en ng ut a st ge ng at me t , he ng es at es t + 23 nd t 23 ll be ly ed th is st ge .
re , if he es at t 23 nd t + 23 ng to he me ss as he ge at t , nd re ed in he ng et , is an ad to ly ed or es or he ld ut le .
en ed th is on ( i . e . , in he ic es dy ed ow ) , we id he ic as by ng om he ng et ll es at ur in 23 ds of he ld ut st ge .
in is se , ur ss on re es ng ut ne st le er ss , nd so ng ly te es om he ng et .
se es
is on es ee ct ri es , he ta ed in ch , nd he si - rs ed or ch .
in is on we ze he ss of he st er ed or ch of se es .
on 23 es re ly he ns ed ss se ee se es .
ll et al .
re us ce dy
in is ri dy ( er , st , & er , 23 ) , ts ed a on of ls .
ng ch al ey re wn in ce a ce nd a le re , en ed er he ce ly ed he re .
we ed is ta to re he ty of ng rs to sh er he ct is ng a ce or a re ng a ar me al .
in lf of he ls he re as ed st , ed by he ce .
in he ng ls , he ce as ed st , ed by he re .
in er se , he st us ( ce or re ) as ed or 23 ds , ed by a nk en or 23 ds .
he nd us as en ed or up to 23 ds , ng en he ct ed he se on to te er he ce ly ed he re .
ly , a st od of 23 ds as ed re he xt al an .
us , ch al ed ly 23 ds .
es re ic ts of he ls + , nd / or $ , ch as
es re ns ch as it is ue at he us is ow he ar .
lf of he es re ed ( e . g . , it is ot ue at he ar is ve he us . ) nd he er lf re ve es .
ch ct as ed a al of 23 ls as ed ve , ed th en al st ds .
ng ch of se st ds , he ct as ed to ax le ng at a ed nt on he en .
ri es re ed ry 23 ec .
he ng sk we er or is dy is to in a er to ne , en a ar 23 - nd al of ri ta , er he ct is ng a ce or a re ng is al .
in er ds , we sh to rn a te er or ch ct , of he ng rm
f : ri - ce ( 23 , 23 + 23 ) ( re , ce )
re 23 is he me of us ( re or ce ) et .
us , he ut to he er is an 23 - nd al of ri ta ng en he re or ce is st ed to he ct .
gh he us as ed or a um on of ly 23 ds , we se is 23 - nd al in er to re he ll ri ty ed th he us ( ll om on 23 at he ri ld al en ds or 23 ds nd he al ty of st ) . 23
re re a al of 23 es le om ch ct ( 23 es er ss ) .
he ri - ce as lf ed by he es of ll ls in ex .
he ge er of ex ls er ct as ly 23 , 23 , nd ed ly by ct , ed in ge rt on he ze of he ts ad .
te at he ht nd al ed by he er ns 23 es ( es re ed ce er nd ) , ng an ut re or ng ly 23 , 23 es , re
ng to de ve es om in es
he ed on or of he lt er ( ng he st on ss ) is 23 in is se .
he ge or ed or he st ul ed er , ng he st ul re on gy , as 23 , ed er 23 ts , th he st ct ng 23 ( er to on 23 or re ls ) .
se ts re ly ly nt , nd te at it is ed le to in rs to sh se wo ve es ly .
in on to se le - ct rs , we so ed th ng si - rs at te ss le ts .
in is se , we ed he on or ng a ve - ne - ct - ut me in ch we ld ut ch of he 23 ts in rn le ng on he er 23
he an or er he ld ut ct or he st uc - ul on of re on nd er as 23 .
in , is is ly er an he ed 23 or om he lt er , ng at it is le to in rs or is sk at te on an ts ho re ot rt of he ng et .
se ts re ed in il in on 23 .
ic ty dy
in is ri dy ( ee on et al . , 23 ) ts re ed th es , me of ch re us , nd re ed to nd to a es - no on ut he nt of ch ce .
he ns re ed to re at he ct as in ct ng he ce .
he ng sk or is dy as to sh er he ct as ly ng an us ce ( e . g . , he ed rs ed ut he rs ed he ht id .
) or an us ce ( e . g . , he ed rs ke ut he rs re he ht id . ) . 23
en es of ch of pe re ed to ch ct .
ch ce as ed or 23 ds .
xt a on as ed , nd he ct as en 23 ds to er .
er he ct ed he on , or 23 ds ed , an x ed on he en or a 23 nd st od .
he er ed ne ri ge ry 23 ds .
we re ed re in ng a er at es as ut an al of ri ty , nd es ch of he wo es of ce he ct is ng .
ng ur er on , or ch ct we ed rs of he rm
f : ri - ce ( 23 + 23 , 23 + 23 ) pe
re pe = ( us , us ) , nd re 23 is he me at ch he ce is st ed to he ct .
te he er ut es ri ty ng he al om 23 to 23 ds ng al on of he ce .
is is he al ng ch he ri ty is st se .
re re a al of 23 es or ch ct ( 23 es er ss ) .
he ri - ce as ed ng ly he ls om ur is ed to be st nt by a in rt .
se 23 is ed a al of 23 to 23 ls , ng on he ct .
te he 23 nd al ed by he er ns 23 es ( es re ed ry 23 ds ) , ng a er ut or ng om 23 , 23 to 23 , 23 es , ng on he an ct , re re on .
ll et al .
he ed on or of he lt er ( ng he st on ss ) in is se is 23 , en he al er of es om th es .
he ge or ed by he st ul on of re on nd er as 23 , ed er 23 ts , th he st le - ct er ng an or of 23 ( er to on 23 or re ls ) .
ic es dy
in is dy , 23 ts re ed th al ns ng to ve ct ic es ( e . g . , ts , ls ) , nd ed to ne er he rd ed to a ar ry .
we ed is ta to re he ty of ng rs to ct ch of he ic es of rd he ct as ng .
he ls in is dy re ed to ve ks .
in ch ck , he me of a ic ry as st ed or 23 ds .
ng is , he ct as wn a on of 23 ds , ch ed or 23 ec nd ed by 23 ec of nk en .
er ch rd as ed , he ct ed a se on to te er he rd ed to he ic ry ed at he ng of he ck .
in ct , ly ll ds ed to he ed ry ( lf he ks ed no ut - of - ry ds , nd he ng ks ed st ne ut - of - ry rd ) .
a ti - nd nk en st od as ed en ch of he ve ks .
he ve ic es of ds ed re sh , ur - ed ls , es , rs , ts , es , ly rs , ns , ls , en ms , gs , nd ng ts .
ds re en om ts of gh cy ds of ch ry , as en in ig nd ue ( 23 ) , in er to id re or le - ng ds .
ri es re ed ce er nd .
he ng sk we ed or is dy is to sh ch of he ve ic es he ct is ng , ed on a le ed ri ge .
ng ur er on , we sh to rn a er of he rm :
f : ri ( t ) ry
re ri ( t ) is a le ri ge , nd re ry is he et of 23 ic es ed ve .
a al of 23 le es re ed or ch ct ( 23 es er ss , es 23 es ) .
ll ls om 23 is re ed , ng a al of 23 , 23 to 23 , 23 ls , ng on he ct .
in is se he er ut is a le ge , so he er ut on is al to he er of ls , or to re on .
he ed er ts a nk - ed st of he 23 es , ed om st to st le .
we re te er or ng he ed nk or ed in on 23 , re he lt er ( ng he st nt ss ) ds an ed ed nk or of 23 .
he ed nk or or he st ul on of re on nd er as 23 ( i . e .
on ge he ct rd ry as ed st or nd ut of he ve es ) , er 23 ts , th he st ct ng 23 .
( er to on 23 or ls ) .
ng to de ve es om in es
re 23
or ts ow ns of ls at st ct he rd ic ry , or ee nt an ts .
or ch el , he or es he ed nk or er he st et , or a nb er ed on is le el .
te he al ng of ly ve ls , nd he ar ns of ty ss se ee ts .
he ge of ed nk rs is ( ed 23 , rk ue 23 ) , th er rs te en se wo es .
ch ge ds to a le wo - al ne gh he in of ne ct .
ne le on at an be ed ng se er ts is er he er is ed ng he rn of in ty ve of ic es , or er it is ad ng ns ed to me er me - ng on at es ri on .
ne te ty of he al ol or ng ta , om is nt of ew , is at ll of he ds ng to a le ry re ed in a le me al ( i . e . , a le nt ck ) .
in ct we do ve is al cy ay be ng ur ts , ut we so be - ve he er is ed ng es ly ed to ic es .
ne ng ce of ng ce is at rs ed or nt an ub - ts nd to ly on he me in ns to ke ir ns , nd at se ns ve en ed by rs as ed to ic on .
re 23 il - es he in ns ng he st ve ri al or on , ss ee ts .
in is re , ed nd ow te he ls se ty ws st te on .
te he ly ng ls re ed er , in ar ns ss se ts .
se ns or ty ch se ed in er rk on ic on by ao , by , nd in ( 23 ) , ao , rg , nd in ( 23 ) , ai et al .
( 23 ) nd re , hn , nd to ( 23 ) , as ll as me el as at re ly er on .
ns ed
an ne rn to de al es om ri ?
he ry al ng to is ch as to ne er it is le to se ne ng ds to de al es om le al ri ta .
he ul ts ed ve or ll ee ta ts te at is is ed le in
ll et al .
a ty of ng es .
er , it is nt to te at le ur al ts te he ty to ly sh ng a ed et of es ng at ic es le he ct ms ic ks , ey do ot et te at ed rs an ly ct ve es ng at ry es le he ct ms ry ks .
le ur nt ts ay dy be of se in ve ce ch , we nd to ue is re al al in re rk .
we so ed ut ed to in ul rs or al er on ns ed er se me ta ts .
or le , we re le to in an te er to sh he ng of ed us ve es in he re us ce dy .
we re so ul in ts to in rs to sh he ng of ue us se es , or es ch he ct ed ly us ly .
it ay be at se es ld be ed en er ng ts or re ve ng ms .
ly , it ay be he se at he ri ta ly ks he on ed to ke se ns .
is ne of ch is ll ry ew , nd le he ve ts te he ty of ng a ty of ve es ed on ri , at is nt he on of ly ch ve es an be ly ed ns an en al on .
en ur al es us se ed in ox nd oy ( 23 ) , as ll as ly es in in ng gy nd ly ss in ng ne ng ds ly or is pe of on , we re ic at er me we ll be le to de an ly ul on of ve es in an ly en ed et of al gs .
ly , we nd at he cy of ur le - ct rs ed if - ly ng ts , en in he me dy .
or le , en ng an vm or he 23 nt ts in he re us ce dy , he or es of he 23 le - ct rs re 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , nd 23 ( al le - ct ta is ed in es 23 ) .
ts ng gh es th ne er re ly he me ho ed gh es or er rs , nd it is ly at he ta or he st - ng rs re ed by us ds of se ( e . g . , nt ad on ng ng ) .
id - le ct - to - ct on in ri es as en ly ed in he ri
re ng he ic of er ne an in rs in is in , it is th ng he on of er ur ed er - an - om er or es re ly he lt of ng ed ny ng ms nd re on ds , en ng ts or he ch at ed st .
is is a al ue er ne ts th ny ng es , en ts cy or he ne at ms st er he st ta .
in he ng ns we be in il he nt re on ds nd ng ds we ed .
or he es of is on , er , re re wo nt ts to be de .
st , we nd at ry ng hm ( nb , vm , nd nn ) ed ly er an om on es or ry se dy , ng ur on at it is le to rn rs in is in .
nd , en ng re on , es re en er a ng et ct om he st ta , ng a ve - ne - ut
ng to de ve es om in es
ss on ch , so at ch st le ad no ce on ch es re ed .
he ly ay at he st ta ed re on as in ng he er of es , n , or ch ts re ed .
is le er n as en or ch ng hm nd dy , to ze he an cy er ll le - ct rs ed by at hm or at dy .
en at he er of le - ct rs ed om ve to en , ng on he dy , we ed at he ce of is le er n ld rt ly a ry or ce nd at we ld ly er ur ed es to be ry se to ue es .
to st is re we ed an nt to re is ed te ( ng he ue of n ch ed st et ce ) to an ed te ed ng a re te nd ly ve ch .
to in he ly ed te , we ed a ed ss on ch to on he ta ly to ee ts : a ng et , on et , nd al st et .
he ng nd on ts re ed to in a nb er , to se he re on od , nd to se he er n of es to be ed .
he al st et ad no ce on ng or ng at to rt , nd as ed ly to de a al ed te of cy .
we an is nt er he ta om ll 23 ts in ur ce us re ta et .
he ng ed or te ed by he al st et as 23 , as he al ed te ed by ur rd wo - et ch as 23 .
re , he er of es n ed by se wo es re ly al .
is al me ts ur re at ur ed er es , le in ry ly ed , re in ct ry se to ir ue es .
ch er ks st ?
as ed er , we ed th ee er ng ds : a an ve es ( nb ) er , k - st or ( nn ) , nd ar rt or ma - es ( vm ) .
se rs re ed se ey ve en ed ly in er ns ng gh al ta .
or le , ve es si - rs , nn , nd vm ve ll en ed or xt on ms ( am et al . , 3; ms , 3; ng , 23 ) , re he on of he ta is ly 23 , ng to he ze of he al ge ry .
to st he ve ce of ur rs , we ed wo ts of ts .
st , or ch ri dy we ed he ce of nb , ar vm , nd nn ( th k ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) ) ng as ut to he er ll ls in he is ed or se es .
re he ce ic is on or , pt or he ic es dy re he ic is ed nk or .
he ce ed or a ic dy is he an or er ll le - ct rs ed or at dy , as ed by ve - ne - le - ut - om - ch - ss ss on .
se he ic es dy is ot a ry on sk , we id ot nt th ms on is ic dy .
he ts re wn in le 23 in he ws ng no re on .
he le ts ts or he er - ng nt of nb in ch dy .
in he ic
ll et al .
le 23
or es or rs ss ll es .
ch le ry es he an st or ed er ll le - ct rs ed or a ar ri dy nd ng od .
he ws th re on no ow ts en ng ll ls in he le is .
he ws th re on es ow ts of he re on od at ed he st rs .
in ry se pt ne , is as he ve re on od ed in on 23 . 23
he on is he ry ed th he * , or ch ve re on ed st .
he nt of nb ch ed he st ts ( nd ch is re ed in is le ) is nb - ce or he ic ty dy , nd nb - ce or he er wo es .
ty dy is as nb - ce , nd in he er wo es it as nb -
as an be en in he le , he nb nd vm rs ed nn .
ng he ce of nn , ne an so ee a nd at ce ly es th ng es of k .
ur nd et of ts ed he ce of he rs en ed in on th re on .
he ic re on ds we ed re ed in il in he xt on .
or ch dy nd ng od he le ts ts ng he st ul re on od , in he le ow ng re on es .
in ll es pt ne ( he le ry ed by he * ) , he st ul re on od as he ve od ed in on 23 . 23
as an be en in le 23 , ng re on ed a ge nd nt nt in on or ss ll es nd ng ds .
as in he er - ts th no re on , nb nd vm rm nn en re on is ed , nd he ce of nn es as k es .
is .
ne ar nd in is ta is at nn ed ss ll an nb or ms ss ll es nd ns .
in ct , is is ot oo ng en he gh al , se ng ta ts .
it is ll wn at he nn er is ve to nt es , as se es dd in nt ys to he ce en in nd st es ( ll , 23 ) .
is on or he or ce of nn is so nt th he ic nt in nn ce ng om re on .
as he le ts te , re on es es nn or by a or of wo or re , ly by ng ny of se nt , ng
as ed in on 23 , he wo ts of nb we ed er ly in he er of ct rs ed en ng es in he ss al
ng to de ve es om in es
ns of el es .
nb - ce es a le ce en - nt of he ss , as nb - ce es a ct ce er ss .
we nd at nb - ce ed er in he dy ng he st am - es er ss ( ic ty ) , as nb - ce ed er in he er es .
is al lt is nt th a al as - ce ff : ng ta in er to te er rs ly ds to er ce ti - es , ut to er as .
us , in al as he er of le es es , we ct nb - ce to rm nb - ce , ll er gs ng
ce at he vm ed nb in he re vs .
ce dy or ch re re 23 es er ss , ut ot in he ic es dy or ch re re ly 23 es er ss .
le is ay be ue to us rs , it is st - ng to ve at is nd is nt th nt ts of ng nd an ( 23 ) , in ch ey de al nd al ts at nb en ms ic on en ta is ce , ut ot en ta es re ul .
ey in is by ng ut at gh ic on ly ( in he um - er of ng es ) ms nb , ic on es o ( n ) es to ch ts te le nb es ly o ( og n ) , re n is he er of ea - es .
in ur se we te at vm , ke ic on , es o ( n ) es , in on to he o ( gn ) ed by nb .
le ur al ts re oo se to ve a ly nt nd or he ve ce of vm nd nb , it is ss ng to te ur ts re nt th he is of ng nd an
in ry , we nd en ng ri rs ss a ty of ta ts nd et ns at nb nd vm ed nn te ly .
re , re on as a ge nd nt al ct ss ll es nd ng
ch re on od ks st ?
en at ur on em es ry gh al , sy , se ng ta , it is al to er re on ds to ce he ty of he ta re ng he er .
as we ed in he us on , nd as ma - ed in le 23 , re on ds to ge nd ly nt ts in on or ss ll ee of ur se es .
is on es in il he re on ds ed in ur rk , nd me ng ns ed ng ch re on ds ed st .
ch .
in he ld of ne ng , he st on ch to re on en ng rs is to ct se es at st te he et es .
or le , en he al of ng a et on on f : x y , ne on ch to re on is to nk er he es of x by ir al on th ct to he ss le y , en to ly ct he n st ng es .
ll et al .
en he re of on ms in he ri in ( nd a ty of er ns as ll ) , a nd al ch to re on is so le .
to te , er he em of ng a an er f : x y re y = ( 23 , 23 ) , en ng es ed as ng to er ss 23 or ss 23 ( e . g . , ng to sh er he ct is ng a re or ce ) .
in ri es , we ly in ee es of ta er an wo .
in on to ta ng ss 23 nd ss 23 , we so in ta ng to a rd on or st on .
is on on ns ta ed ng he me ls en ls , ng ch he ct is ly at st ( e . g . , ey re ng er a re or a ce , ut re ad ng at a on nt ) .
us , we an ew he ta ed th ss 23 nd ss 23 as ng me al ed on he ss le y , as he ta ed th on ns no ch al , nd ad ns ly nd se ve to ur on em .
in is ng , we an er a nd al ch to re on : re ch re by ow ll it es he ss 23 or ss 23 ta om is ro al ta .
in he gy of ri , we re ch re ed on ow ve it is ng he ss 23 or ss 23 ls , ve to he on ls .
he on nd is re on od is at it es ng ls th ge al - to - se os , gh it es er he re ly es he et es .
we er to is al ng as he ro al ng ng , ed in re 23
ce ny on ms ng or ta an be ed in
re 23
he ro al ng ng .
an on ms in he ri in ly ve se to ee es of ta : ta ng to he wo et es us ta ed en he ct is in he on or st on .
we me he ta om ss 23 nd ss 23 re ed of me ng al us se , as ta om he on on ns no nt al ut ly se .
in ch gs , re on ds an er th el ty ( ow ll he re es ss 23 om ss 23 ) , nd el ty ( ow ll he re es ss 23 or ss 23 om he ro al
ng to de ve es om in es
ms of is ro al ng ng ( e . g . , ng ch of wo le is ng ed on ce ta , re he ro al on ds to nd se en er on is ng ) .
re , ng ow to rm re on nd on in is ng as ce nd he in of ri .
in ct , in he ri re it is on to se ty to ct a et of nt ls , nd en to re he or of is ed et er us ns .
in he ts ed ow , we er re on ds at ct ls ed on th ir ty to sh he et es om ne er ( ch we ll ty ) , nd on ir ty to sh he et es om he on on ( ch we ll ty ) .
gh ch re ts of he ue of a le el at a le me , we up he es ng he me el er or he se of re on , nd us us on ng a et of ls .
in er il , he re on ( el on ) ds we er re re :
ct he n st ng ls ( im ) .
in is od , a te er is ed or ch el , ng ly he ed ri ta ed th at el .
he cy of is le - el er er he ng ta is en as a re of he ng er of he el , nd he n ls at re st ng to is re re ed .
te en ng ss on rs on al rs ng is re on od , es re ed ly or ch ss - on ld in er to id ng ta om he st ld ng he re on ss .
us , he ls ed ay ry om ld to ld .
ct he n st ve ls ( ve ) .
in is od , ls re ed ed on ir ty to sh er et ss om he on on .
re ly , or ch el , v , nd ch et ss yi , a t - st is ed to re he ls ri ty in es ng to ss yi to ts ty in es ng to on ds .
he st ls re en ed by ng or ch et ss yi he el th he st t ic .
he xt ls re ed by ng he nd st ve el or ch ss , nd so on , il n ls re en .
ce he ed ls ay sh st ne et ss om on , or ay sh th et es om on .
ct he n st ve ls er on of st ( ve ) .
is is ar to he ve od ve , ut es at ls re ed ly om ll ns of st ( is ) in he in .
re ly , en m ed is , is od es he ve od to ch oi , ng n / m ls om ch .
he on of se el ts is ed as he et of n ed ls .
he es ve or ng ls an be ed th ds or ng he es of le es ( in ce or me ) , nd th ds at ct ta er a ub - al in me .
we ed th us ns of ch es , nd rt re on he ve ee ds ( im , ve , ve ) as ll as a th od ed om ve :
te he an of ve ls er oi ( vg ) .
is od st ts n / m ls or ch of he m is ng he ve od .
it en es a le
ll et al .
el or ch oi , se ty at me t is he an ty of he ed oi ls at me t .
ts .
we ed th ch of se ur re on ds , er ch of he ee se dy ta ts .
or on es we so ed ng ll le es ( ed es in ur ts es ) .
es 23 nt ed ts of re on ts or ch of he ee ri es .
ch le ws he st rs ed or ch re on
le 23
re vs .
ce nb er rs by ct nd re on od .
23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23
he st mn es he re on od , ng th he er of es ed ( es es ng ll le es , ch es by ct ) .
he nd mn es he ge or er ll 23 le - ct rs en ng he re on od .
ng ns te rs or al ts a gh m .
or ch od , he er of es as en to ze he ge or er ll ts .
le 23
ic ty nb er rs by ct nd re on od .
ge or a
23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23
ts re ed ng he me at as le 23
le 23
ic nb rs by ct nd re on od .
re on ge or
ts re ed ng he me at as le 23
ng to de ve es om in es
od nd or ch ct ed in he dy , en ng a nb er .
re he st or rs to he st or ed by ng he er of ed ls .
he al er of ls ed ed by dy nd re on od , ly ng om 23 to 3% of he al er le in he ed is , ce we ed ts in is ge .
or ch re on od nd dy , he er of es as en to ze he an or of ll le - ct rs ed or is dy .
is er is wn in es xt to he re on od in he le .
he ic rs of es ed re 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , nd 23 or he re us ce dy , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , nd 23 or he ic es dy , nd 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 or he ic ty dy .
se ts te at ng re on ds to ed er or in ll ee es , nd at ll of ur re on ds ve er no re on in he st ty of es .
or le , he ve re on od ms he ch of ng ll es in 23 of he 23 le - ct rs ed er he ee es , nd ds nt ce in he ng 23 es .
a nd ng nd in he ts is he ce of re on ds ed on ty ( ve , ve , vg ) er se ed on ty ( im ) .
as an be en in he es , ry ty - ed re on od ms he ty - ed od , on ry se dy .
of se ty - ed ds , he ve od ds st cy , nd it ms he im od in 23 of he 23 le - ct rs ed ss he ee es , ng or ce in ly 23 of he 23 es .
te so at he ve od ts ly er es an im in ll ee ri es .
it is at st ng to ve at ng es ed on ir ty el ks ly er an ng em ed on ir ty to is - te he et es .
en at he nd al is to te he et es , nd at ng es ed on ty is he rm in ne ng ca - ns , ne ht ll ct ty to ve en he nt od .
ow we ok er to hy we ve he te lt in ll ee ri es .
ne on in ch we ht ct ty - ed re on to rm on - ed ds is en ta ty is ry gh , se ls re gh , ng ta re se , nd ry ew ls in a al ed to he et es .
in ch es , we ld ct to nd at me ls at re ly nt ar ss to be od rs er he se le of ng en en ng ss on to st ir on er .
he er he et of ch nt ls , he re ly at a re on gy ed on on ld ct ch ng ls , nd be le to sh se om ly ve ng ls .
er , in is me se we ht ct at ng ls th gh al - to - se os ld be a ul gy , as it ld ve om on he ge er of nt ls ( i . e . , se th no al , ut ly se ) .
in ct , ur ty - ed re on es ct ly is nd of gh al - to - se io ls .
he om ne is at ch re on gy ns ts wn sk :
ll et al .
on - ed ds un he sk of ng ls at ly ly t he sy ng le , as ty - ed ds un he sk of ng gh al - to - se ls at ot te he et es .
ch sk is er ds on he ct em , ut he ve sk or he on - ed od ws re ly th ng ta on , ng se el , ng ng et ze , nd an ng on of nt es .
to re is re , et us ne he al cs of he ls ed by se wo ds in ur ta .
in ar , we ll us on a le ct in he ic es dy : ct g , se st ge ed nk or ( 23 ) is ed by a nb er ng 23 ls en ng he ve re on gy .
he im od so ns ts st or ( 23 ) ng 23 ls or is ar ct .
at is he ce in se wo ts of ls ed ng se wo ds ? re re in ct es in he ee of ng en he wo
et us er ee ts of ls om ct g : se en by ve re on ut ot by im ( ly ) , se en by im by ot by ve ( ly ) , nd se en ly by th ds ( on ) .
or is ar ct , re re 23 ls in he on et , nd 23 in ch of ly nd ly .
ng a nb er ng ly he ls in on ds an or of ( 23 ) , ly ut ot ly er an he or om he ve ls .
re 23 ws he ee of ng or ch of se ee ts of ls .
on he ft , el ( a ) es a ot of ng et or ( al is ) us st et or ( al is ) .
he ht ne es re ng or ls st or .
ce ll ee ts of ls rt to me ee ( i . e . , st or is ly er an or al to ng or ) , ut he er of ls es st om he ht ne or he ly ls .
on he ht , el ( b ) es a am ng he er of ls in ch et at rt to ng es .
te he ly el et ns ny re ls at rt to a ge ee .
ed on he ta ed in is re , it is ar at he ee of ng is ed er in is se or ls ed by im an se ed by ve .
it is so ar at he ls in on er he st ng .
a nt ew to he er of se ee el ts is ed by re 23
he op on of is re ts he 23 ls th he st ng et or om ch of he ee ts .
ch el ot ws he ed an el or ch of he ve et es .
ce he er ad of se ls or he ls en by he im od ( ly nd on ) an or he ly et .
he om on of re 23 es a er ot of rd on ( al is ) us st or ( al is ) or he ee el ts .
ce he ly er rd on or he ly et .
ve we ed at he im od or re on es a sk of se - ng ls at rt he ta .
he ve ta , ly om re 23 , es at in ct ng is er or im an or ve in ur ta .
we so ed he ve od es he ng sk of ng nt ls .
is is
ng to de ve es om in es
( a ) er ts of ng et or ( al is ) st st et or ( al is ) or he ls in ch et ( ow ) .
( b ) ms ng or ch el et he er of ls at rt to us es .
he al is in is se is ( st or us ng or ) , ng he ee of ng .
in ct ng in ur se ? he ts in re 23 ow at he ly et of ox - ls es ar to in ls at re or rs ng he ve et
to nd he ct of or rs ( nt ls ) ed by he ve od , er he ve ht of he nt us nt ls ed by a nb .
en an ce ( id : 23 ) x to be ed , he og ds ed by he nb or wo es ci nd c j is
p ( ci | ( id : 23 ) x ) p ( c j | ( id : 23 ) x )
p ( c j )
p ( xk | ci ) p ( xk | c j )
re xk is he ed ue or he th re of ( id : 23 ) x , nd re p es ns ed by nb ed on he ng ta .
te he nb er ll ct ss ci if he ve og ds io is ve , nd c j if it is ve .
us , he on of he nb is ed by a ar um , re ch el es ne rm to he um .
ll et al .
in he op lf of he re , ch ot ws he 23 ed ss ty es p ( xk | ci ) or a le el xk , or ct g in he ic es dy .
he x is es om 23 to 23
ch ow ns he 23 ls th he st ng et rs om ch el et , ed by ng or .
or ce , he st nd st ts in ch ow ve ir ( ng et , st et ) or es ow em .
he om lf of he re es ts ng he ge ss rd on ( al is ) st he st or ( al is ) or ch el et ( ow ) .
te he er ce or he ng ls ( on nd ly ) .
ng to de ve es om in es
ow et us er a el xk ch is ly nt to he on ( i . e . , re he ue ns p ( xk | ci ) nd p ( xk | c j ) re al ) .
st , er he on in ch he ed es p ( xk | ci ) nd p ( xk | c j ) re so al .
in is se he on ng xk ll be al to 23 , ts og ll be al to 23 ss of he ed ue of xk , nd el xk ll re ve no ce on he al nb de - on .
ow er he on in ch p ( xk | ci ) nd p ( xk | c j ) er ( e . g . , ue to ng ) te he ct at p ( xk | ci ) = p ( xk | c j ) .
in is se , he xk rm ll in ct be on - ro , nd ll ve a al , ng ce on he al nb on .
is is in ct ng in ur ta ? he ts in re 23 st at he ve ls at re nt ( i . e . , se in ly ) do ed ve ly ap - ng p ( xk | ci ) ns , ng he de of ir on to he al nb
to ze , we nd ar al ce at re on ly im - es on cy in ur in .
re , we nd ar al vi - ce at ty - ed re on ds ly rm on - ed ds ( ry ty - ed re on od we ed ed on - ed re on , in ch of ur ee ri es ) .
he al ar - ic of ur em in at es is nd of re on is ed in re 23
in ar , he ey ic is he ty of a rd ry of ta in ch er of he et es is ta ch we er to as he ro al ss of ta .
we re , nd rt th a ty of al ns , at ty - ed re on ay rm on - ed re on in ro - al on ms , ly th ng ta on , se , nd ta ty , nd as he on of ly nt es es .
en at a ty of or - ed on ms t is ro - al ng ng , we ve ne of he st nt ns ed om he ri in is he ty of ty - ed re on in ch ns .
es of ch or - ed on ms de er ce on ( re ro al ta ds to nd mi - ne se en dy is ng ) , nd eo ct on in ed - ra gs ( re ro al ta ds to nd es ng no ts of st ) .
al ch is ed to ze is ro - al ng ng nd re ts ce in se nd er ns .
ne ly ng on or re rk is to nd ow st to nd ty - ed nd on - ed re on to ze ng cy .
an ne in rs ss le ts ?
ll ts ed so ar in is er ve ed on he em of ng ct - ic rs .
is on rs he on of er it is le to in rs at ly ss le an ts , ng an ts ho re ot rt of he ng et .
is is an nt al se if it is le it ns he ty of ng ct - nt es in in ty ed th nt es of ve ng , it ns he ty of ng ed rs ng rs ng ri ta ed om ny nt le , nd it es
ll et al .
it le to ol ng ta om le ts to te he se ta em in is in .
he st le to is of le - ct ri ta is al ty ng ts .
nt ns ry ly in ir es nd es , as is nt om he es en om ee nt ns in re 23
is ty es it ob - ic to er he ny ds of ls in ne in to ir se ng ns in a nt in .
ne on ch to is em is to rm ( eo - ly ph ) ri ta om nt ts to me rd al ce , ch as ch es ( ch & ux , 23 ) .
he ck of is od is at he ng on ly es an or on he er of a er , in ng he er - le ls om nt ns .
he ve at we on - er re is to ad ct he ri on , ng he an on in ch oi as he er ut , ad of ng al el ns .
in er ds , we at ch oi as a ge el se on is ed by he an on er ll he ls it ns .
te is is nt to ng ur ge re on od , ng ll ls in ch oi .
te he al ty in in es nd es , it is ly sy or ed ts to ly fy he me et of is in ch ct .
a nd ty at es en ng le - ct rs is at he en - ty of ri se to a ar us is en nt ss ts .
to ly ss is ue , we oy a on od at ly es he ta om nt ts to he me um - um ge .
le re re ny ss - ct es at ot be ed by is le ar on , we ve nd is on to be ul .
we ve so nd at a ar on od an es ce on or or le - ct rs , en ed to ze ta ss nt ls ed th a le ct .
of se a rd ty at es is ly at nt le ay nk ly , nd we ve no on to me a ri at we ld nd he me al - al ns of ri on in wo ts en if we ld ly gn ir ns ly , nd ly ze he ve es of ir ri gs .
us , he on of er ne an in le - ct rs is ly a on of er nt ns ve ly ly to it a on rn of on .
we ed ts to in le - ct rs ng wo ta ts : he re us ce ta , nd he ic ty ta .
he ng wo ec - ns be se wo ts in rn .
we id ot pt to in le - ct rs or he rd et , ic es , se we ed he ed at - ns of ty at sh rd es ld be le ce he el - el ta as ed to an oi ty .
ce us re dy .
we ed le - ct rs or he en - ce us re dy , to te er he ct as ng a re or a ce .
le - ct rs re ed ng ta om 23 of he 23 ts , ng he ta om ch ct to en oi ls .
to te he or of se ed rs , we ed ve - ne - ct - ut ss on .
in ar , or
ng to de ve es om in es
le 23
rs or le - ct er , ce us re dy .
he ht mn ws he or of a ti - ct er en ed to ts ld om he ng et , ng ve - ne - ct - ut ss on .
ts re ed ng za - on nd 23 is .
ll rs re ed by er - ng ll ls in an oi to a el .
3% ce ls re ed er he as - on at st es re ly , de - ly li ed .
he or of a an - om er is 23 .
in is is we ed he nb - ce on of nb .
ch ct we ed on he ng 23 ts , ed he or on is ld ut ct , en ed he an or er ll ld ut ts .
ce at in is se re re 23 es le to in is le - ct er , in st to he 23 es le to in he le - ct rs ed er .
he ts , ed in le 23 , ow at he ar vm ns a le - ct er at es or of 23 23 er he ft ut ct .
is is ly ta - ly nt ed to he 23 or ed of a lt er ng he ty ss .
is es at it is ed le to in a er to re nt ct - nt es in in ty at re ly ng to ct ve es in an ts ho re ot rt of he ng et .
as in er ts , we te at vm nd nb in rm nn , nd at he ce of nn es th ng es of k .
gh se ts te at it is le to rn le - ct rs th es er an om , he es re ow se ed by he le - ct rs ed in le 23
or le , he le - ct vm er or of 23 is ss te an he an le - ct er or of 23 ed in le 23
is ce ld be ue to a ty of rs , ng om he er al on ng of ri ts in he le - ct er ( i . e . , ng ls ad of er - le ls ) , to le es in in on er nt
in a nd et of ts we ly ed ng le - ct us le - ct rs , is me ng al ng ds nd al en - gs or he er ut ( ge , ng ll ls in en ly ed is ) .
in se ts we ed he me re us ce ta , ut
ll et al .
le 23
rs or le - ct nd le - ct rs , en ed on p - en - s , nd s - en - p ta .
he rd mn ws he ge or of rs ed or le ts .
he th mn ws he or of ti - ct rs ed to ts ld om he ng et .
ts re ed ng on .
ll rs re ed ed on ng ll ls in an oi to a el .
3% ce ls re ed er he on at st es re i . i . d .
li ed .
he or of a om er is 23 .
is me we ed he ta to wo nt ts : ls in ch he ce as ed re he re ( ch we ll er to as s - en - p ) , nd ls in ch he re as ed re he ce ( ch we ll ll p - en - s ) .
ce at ng he ta in is on ts in an er on em , se ll es of ne us ( e . g . , es ) ur in he me al xt ( e . g . , ol - ng ly he st od in he s - en - p et , or ng ly he re us in he p - en - s et ) , nd ce it ss ty .
or ch of se wo ta ub - ts we ed th le - ct nd le - ct rs , ng nb , vm , nd nn rs , nd ng ge re on th ll ls in he ed is .
he ts re ed in le 23
te or on we nt th he ve - 23 - ct - ut or of he le - ct rs , nd he ge ve - ne - le - er - ss - ut or of he ng le - ct rs .
as in he st nt , he le - ct rs ve es ly er an he 23 ed om om ng .
ly , he le - ct rs ve or es le to se of he le - ct rs , nd in a ew es ve or es or to se of he le - ct te he ct at he le - ct rs re ng ed on ts de he ng et .
ly is er ce by he le - ct er an be ed by he ct at it is ed ng an er of de re ng es , om ve ts er an ne .
we et se ts as ng rt or he ty of ng gh cy rs at ly to el an ts .
te se rs re ly re te an se in he st nt , ly ue to he er on sk as ed ve .
ng to de ve es om in es
ic ty dy .
we so ed to in le - ct rs or he ic ty dy , to te er he ct as ng an am - us or on - us ce .
in is se , he or of he ti - ct er as 23 23 er ve - ne - ct - ut ss on , nd ly he ge or of le - ct rs is 23 23 .
he ng ch ed is lt as ng he nb er , um - um on , nd he re on od vg , ng he 23 st ve ls om ch of ur re - ed is ( ft nd ht ca , nd ft nd ht al ns ) to ls .
se rs re ly er an ed om a om er , 23 .
ke he ce us re dy , er , se ts re te ve to he ic - ar on of ng od nd re on .
gh we ot aw ng ns om is lt , it es de st al rt or he ty of ng le - ct rs .
ry nd ns
we ve ed ts om ee nt ri es ng he ty of ng rs to sh a ty of ve es , ed on le - al ri ns .
is em is ng th se of ts ce to ng an on , nd as a se dy of ne ng in gh al , sy , se ta
ur on of rs es at an ve es ( nb ) nd ar rt or ne ( vm ) rs rm k st or ss ll ee es , nd at re on ds ly ve on or in ll ee es .
in ng nb to vm , we nd ds nt th he ns in ng nd an ( 23 ) , at he ve ce of ve us ve rs ds in a le on on he er of ng es nd ta on .
in ar , ur ts re nt th he is at he cy of ms es ly re ly an he cy of nb as he ta on is ed ia re on , nd as he er of ng es es .
re on is an nt ct in he gn of rs or gh al , se , sy ta .
we ed a ew er ng ( he ro al ng ) at es an nt ct of ur ri on em , as ll as a ty of er si - on ms ng or ta .
in is ng , he le ta es ot ly es of he es to be ed ( e . g . , ta en he ct is ng a re or a ce ) , ut so a ss of ro al ta ( e . g . , en he ct is ng er a re or a ce , ut is ly ng on he en ) .
ur ts ow at in ur in ty - ed re on ds ch ke ge of is ro al ta ly rm al on - ed re on ds at se ly ta om he et es .
ur ta nd ur is so st at he ve et of ty - ed us on - ed re on ll se as ta es re se , re sy , er al , nd as he on of nt es es .
as is ar om ur on of he ri ta ts , is in ts a ly me nt ng ll ur of se ns .
we an er
ll et al .
ch to op a re se al el of is ro al ng , nd to op nd nt th re on es ed to ke al ge of is
in on to ng rs to ct ve es in le ts , we so ex - ed he ty of ng ss - ct rs to ke ns ss le an ts .
in is se , we nd it ul to ct he ri ta by ng he an ri ty in ch of al ly ed in ns .
ng is ch , it as le to in rs to sh , e . g . , er he ct as ng a re or a ce ng a re , nd to ly se ly to ts de he ng et .
in me es , he on cy or ts de he ng et ed he cy ed by ng on ta om st is le ct .
en is ss in ng le - ct rs , we an al ch to re a er of ve es to ss - ct on ( e . g . , ad of ng he ta or ch ct , ap he nt in es to a rd te em ch as ch es ) .
re re ny al es or ne ng ch in he xt of ri ta is .
or le , it ld be ul to rn ls of al or , in st to he rk ed re ch rs ly ta at a le me or me al .
ne ng ds ch as en ov ls nd ic an ks ar nt to is em .
a nd ch on is to op ng ds at ke ge of ta om le es , in st to he le dy ts ed re .
in ur wn ab , or le , we ve ed ri ta om er 23 an ts .
in er to op ng ds to ke ge of ch ta , it ll be ry to ss th ow to ne ta om le ts nd ow to ne ta om ts ed th ng li .
a rd ch ic is to op ne ng ds at ld ke as a ng nt al ve ls of an ng , ch as ct - r ( on et al . , 23 ) nd ps ( st , er , & ma , 23 ) , ng se as or ge or ng he is of ri ta , nd ly ng se ls to er t ed al
as th ny al - ld ne ng se es , ur on of he ri em in as wn on ns ed om us ch in ne ng , nd as ed ew ns of ts wn .
en at ri is a em ng ry gh al , se ta ts , we ew ly on ly ed ns om ar ns ch as xt on .
is ed us to oy vm , nb , nd nn on ms at ve ly en ul in ch ns , nd ed us to ly re re on ds or ng he on of he ta .
he st nt ew ht ut ng to se om ur ri es us ar is he on of he ro - al ng ng nd he nt of ew nd ly ve re on ds or is ng .
in ar , ur ry of he ed ce of ty - ed re on ds er ly ed on - ed ds as an al ep rd ng ul rs in is in , nd ts at ar re on es ay be ul in er gh al , se ns at t he ro - al ng ng .
ng
ng to de ve es om in es
rd , we ct ne ng ds to ve an ng ct on he is of ri ta as is ld es , nd ee al es or he ri in to ve el ne ng ch , ly in ms ed to ry of ns or ng ta om le ts , nd in ng al ls of ve es .
we re ul to is j .
os or ul ns nd ed ts on us ts of is er .
ks to ir ky nd el ng or ul ns nd ns ng he se of is rk , nd to ul tt or ny ul ns nd or ng rt of he de ed or he ic es dy .
we re so ul or he ed ts of wo us rs , ch ed to nt ts to he al on of is er .
du an cu as ed by a te ip om he ck pu - al gy nd ry am at ie on ty ed by he ck ny on nd by al ce on ( sf ) nt no .
cr - 23
co ra as ed by he er or al is of on , a is xi ip om ao ra a ia e ia , al ( ii ro io de io , do lo do al eu ) nd a hd ar - ip om ao te an , al .
ca on as ed by an sf te ip .
rt or ng he ri ta ts as ed by nt er 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 om he ry ty ch ve ( ri ) of he ce of he ry of se .
co is le at tp : / / ww . at . mu . du / co .
ce is on sk is de re lt by he ct at he st us is ys ed or
ur ds , as he nd us is ed as on as he ct ds th a on ss .
he nt ed ur es of es .
we er re ly wo es , ng to he st
nd st us .
