we er he em of mi - ed ng to ex - ct es ( e . g . , ic ds , es ) nd ns ( e . g . , rt ( te , rt ) ) om eb es , ng th a ul of ed ng es of ch ry or on , us ds of ns of ed eb oc - ts .
mi - ed ng ng ly a ew ed es is ly le se he ng sk is ed .
is er es he is at ch er cy an be ed by er ng he ng sk , by ng he mi - ed ng of ny rs or nt es nd ns .
we ze al ys in ch he ng of ry nd on rs an be ed , nd nt er - al ts ng ly ed cu - cy as a lt .
es nd ct rs i . 23 ( al ce ) : ge ui - n; i . 23 ( al ce ) : al ge
mi - ed ng , ap ng , on on , eb ng
ne ng es ve en wn to be ry ul or on on om xt , ng ap - es at rn to ct us es of es ( e . g . , te , ty ) nd ns ( e . g . , ce - ct ) om ed nd ed xt ( 23 , 23 ) .
er , ed ng of te ty nd la - on rs is ly , ng a al er of ed ng es or ch pe of ty nd la - on to be ed .
se of is , ny rs ve ed mi - ed ng ds at se ly a ll er of ed es of he te to be ed , ng th a ge me of ed xt ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
le ch mi - ed ng ds re ng , ey en it le cy se he ed er of al ed es is nt to ly in he ng ss .
re 23 : we ow at nt ts in cy lt om ng he ng of on rs or ny ed es nd ns ( b ) , ed th he er ut ch re lt sk of ng a le on or ( a ) .
on to ke al or rd es of ll or rt of is rk or al or om se is ed ut ee ed at es re ot de or ed or ot or al ge nd at es ar is ce nd he ll on on he st ge .
to py se , to sh , to st on rs or to te to ts , es or ic on nd / or a ee .
23 , ry 23 , 23 , ew rk ty , ew rk , sa .
ht 23 cm 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 - 23 / 23 / 23 . . . 23 .
he is ed in is er is at we an ve ch er cy in mi - ed ng by ou - ng he us ng of ny rs , as ug - ed in re 23
he on re is at he on - ed mi - ed ng sk an be de er by ng ew ts at se om ng he ng of ny rs .
we nt an ch in ch he ut to he mi - ed er is an gy ng a et of et es nd ns to be ed , a ul of ed ex - es or ch , nd a et of ts at le he us es nd ns ( e . g . , on nd rt re ly ve ) .
we ow at en is ut nd ns of ed ts , a mi - ed ng re an ve ry nt cy ve - ts by ng he ng of rs or ns of es nd ns .
we ow at ur al ap - ch es es en ng th al - rn rs at ct on om rm xt ( e . g . , he rn or of 23 as an or or he ry ty ) nd rs ch ct ma - on om mi - ed ts ( e . g . , he er td s= " ty " 23 < / d> om me ic rl ) .
ed on ts ed re , we ze at en er cy ts ll be le by ng a re se rk of er - ed ng ks .
to - rd is nd , we re wo re ic ts .
st , we fy ee al es of ng ng et ns at an be ed to rm a se rk of ed ng ms .
nd , we re he ct of ng he ng of rs at se rm xt th rs at ge mi - ed eb es , ed on he on at se nt es ld ke nt rs .
we ve at he el ns of is rk re as ws : ur rk is he st to le he us mi - ed ng of ry nd on rs .
it is so he st to le he ng of le ap - er rs by ng al on nd pe ng ps .
ly , is rk is he st to le he ng ( er an he al ts ) of rm - xt ex - rs nd mi - ed eb ge er rs by ng at ey ke nt rs , a od at we ow es er es an ng er od ne .
re ly , is er es ge - le ou - ed ng as a gy to ly ve cy in mi - ed ng , es ee ct es of ng , nd ly es ir ty .
ed rk
in is er , we us on a ng od or mi - ed ng .
ng es rt th a ll er of ed ed es nd ra - ly ow he et of ed es ng gh - ce ls om he nt el .
ch es ve wn se in ns ch as eb ge on ( 23 ) , ed ty on ( 23 ) , ng ( 23 ) , nd ne on ( 23 ) .
ng es to on on an ld ve ts ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
er , er ny ns , cy ly es se er - rs in ng te , a em at as en ed ic ft ( 23 ) .
to ce rs ed in ed mi - ed ng , al ds ve en ed .
ng he ng of ry rs by ng si - ve es of ne ry as ve es or th - rs as en wn to lp it is ne in cy ( 23 , 23 ) .
co - ng ds it ly nt ns of he re ce to id ng rs ( 23 ) .
er on - ng es ve ed he on
at nt on ds ld ke nt rs to te ng ns om le ex - rs to ve on cy ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
pe ng on ts ng le ty iz - rs an lp id ct ls ( 23 , 23 ) .
ur rk ds on se nt as nd es em to le he ta - us ed ng of ny ry nd on rs in ny nt ys .
al ne ng ks ve en ed at ze ns of ts on ed ta ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
le ar in it , ur rk rs in at we er ng ny nt ds of ts to rn ny nt ns ly .
in sk ng , ed ng of ed nc - ns er an ld er cy an ng em ly ( 23 , 23 ) .
mi - ed sk ng as ed a or at es ed ls to ve ar rs ( 23 ) .
se ds re at ed ks re ar s; ur rk ts al ys in ch ns an be ed , nd es no as - ns ng ty of ns ss he nt ns ng ed .
ed ng
al to is rk is he ea of ng he mi - ed ng of le ns to in ur ng em .
ur od ly ns rs in a lf - ed er .
it ts by ng rs ng a ll nt of ed ta , en es se si - rs to el ed ta .
he st nt ew ls re ed to he ol of ta ed to in he ls ( we ay at se ew ed es re ed ) , nd he ss ts .
he ve ng is ed by on - ts at ct le es nd ns .
23 es of ng
we ve ed ee al es of ng : 23
ut ts : or wo ns fa : x ya nd fb : x yb , if we ow me nt on es ya nd yb or an ut x , we an re fa nd fb to fy is nt .
or le , if fa nd fb re an - ed ns nd fa ( x ) fb ( x ) , we ld in fb ( x ) to ve ue 23 er fa ( x ) = 23
al ts : or wo ns 23 : 23 23 nd 23 : 23 23 23 , we ay ve a nt on id 23 nd 23 rs or a en 23 nd ny 23
we an re 23 nd 23 to fy is nt .
or le , 23 ld pe ck id st ts of 23 , so at 23 , 23 , 23 ( 23 , 23 ) 23 ( 23 ) .
ti - ew - nt ts : or a on f : x y , if x an be ed to wo ws re we te x = ( id : 23 ) 23 , 23 ( id : 23 ) nd we me at th 23 nd 23 an ct y , en we an rn 23 : 23 y nd 23 : 23 y nd in em to ee .
or le , y ld be a et of le es or a eb ge , 23 ld nt he ds in a ge , nd 23 ld nt ds in ks ng to at ge ( is le as ed or he co - ng ng ( 23 ) ) .
23 ng ts ed in is er in is rk , he ns at we rn re ry nd on rs , ch de if a un se or ir
of un es is an ce of me ry or on ( ly ed to as a te in he st of is er ) .
he al es of ng ed ve re ed to rn se ns in se ic ys :
al on : he ut to ur er as a st of rs of es ch re ly ve .
se ps re ed to ce an ut nt er es : ly ve es ot th be ed by he me ut x .
on nt pe ng : we le he rn - ng of on rs th he ng of ry rs ng pe ng .
or le , he gu - ts of he or on re ed to be of he es ny nd ic - or .
is is an le of a al nt .
ed nd mi - ed xt es : un es on he eb ar in wo es of ts : rm al ts nd mi - ed ts .
or le , gh rs on he eb th a is - on of rm al ts ch as or of 23 , nd it so rs th a on of mi - ed ts ch as he ml gs or a st em at a ar rl .
we me at er of se ns is nt to fy a un se , nd at he wo ns re ly nt en he ss el of he un se .
we re in wo un se rs , ne ng ch pe of xt on , nd re at he wo rs ee on he el or ch en un se .
is is an le of a ti - ew nt .
in is on , we nt ms th ch we es - te he ty of ng mi - ed ng or on on th ng .
he al ob - em ed by se ms is to rn rs to ly te he es of a ed gy th gh - ce es , ng om a ll et of ed es or ch te nd a ge us of eb es .
we us on ng ts at re ed ti - le es , ch we an ss ly ng us cs .
we do ot ve gs to al - ld es : he ms of ym on nd on of gs at an er to le es re ft or re rk .
we us ur on of es on ry ns ( es ) nd ry ns ( es th wo ts , ed to as ns in is er ) .
he ic ts to ur ms re : a ge xt or - us nd an al gy th ed es , re - ns , al - on ps en me - ty es , nd ed es or ll es .
ch la - on as an ed ir of nt es , ch fy es at on ce ts st be em - rs of .
me al on is ly ed by rm - xt on ds : ed on ns or te - es , nd a ag or ch ry ng er in - es st be er ns , on ns , or an be er ( e . g . , es of ty re er ns ) .
he st hm , ed rn er ( pl ) , is a ng hm at es al - on nd pe - ng ts to rn gh - on on - al ns at re te rs of te
hm 23 : ed rn er ( pl ) ut : an gy o , nd xt us c ut : ed es / al ns or
or i = 23 , 23 ,
ch te p o do
ct ew te es / al ns ng ly ed er es at te g; nk te es / s; te op s;
es .
he nd , ed al ( al ) , is a et on hm at ns rs to ct in - es om mi - ed ts nd ts he me wo es of ng ts .
se wo go - ms ve to te at ut nd al ng es an ve he cy of ed ng of le es of rs .
he al hm , ta - ap er ( bl ) , es he ng of ub - te on ms ke pl nd al ng 23 ed rn er
he ed rn er ( pl ) hm ns to ct ry nd on es om ed xt , nd is ed in hm 23
pl ns on - al ns at re gh - on rs or ch te ( e . g . , 23 nd er re ms nd 23 ed a al or 23 ) nd es em to ow a et of gh - on te es .
un es at ll in he 23 nd 23 ks of ns in es in he xt us re id to co - ur th se ns .
at he rt of on , pl es ts of ro - ed es nd ns th he ed es nd ns ed as ut .
in ch on , pl ds se ts of ed es nd ns or ch di - te le ng al on nd pe ng on - ts .
is is ed by ng ut es at co - ur th es or ns om ly ex - ve es nd by ng ts of te la - ns to be es or he nt es .
ch ep of pl is ed in re il ow : 23 . 23 ng es to rt ch on , pl ds ew te es by ng he ns ed in he st on to ex - ct un es at co - ur th se ns in he xt us ( in he st on , he ed ns re ed ) .
to ep he ze of is et le , or ch te , pl ts he 23 es at ur th he st ns .
an us re is ed to ex - ct te ns ng ly ed es .
we se rt - of - ch - ag cs to it on to es at ar to be un es nd ns at re ly to be ve .
se re ed xt : ry es : in he nk of a ry rn , it es rt - of - ch
pl ks or a un se .
gs to nt un es nd es rs .
er un es ng ns or nc - ns re ed ng a on of he ex hm ( 23 ) .
ry es re ed to ey he er / on un on of he ry .
ry ns : en a ed ry ce is nd , pl ts he ng ds as a an - te rn if ey re bs ed by a ce of es , ns , or rs nd on - ly ed by ns ( e . g . , ng ed by 23 or es ed by 23 ) or ns nd ec - es ed by a ce of es , ns , or rs ( e . g . , er eo of 23 ) .
pl ex - ts he ds ng he ce as a te rn if ey re bs ed ly by a un se ( e . g . , 23 ke he me un rd ) , or bs ed by a on ( e . g . , 23 id at ) .
on es : if a ed on rn ( e . g . , 23 is or of 23 ) is nd , a te on ce is ed if th rs re id un es ( ng to ur rt - of - ch - ag cs ) , nd if ey ey he er / on ns or
on ns : if th ts om a ed on ce re nd in a ce en he in - ng ce of ds is ed as a te on rn if it ns no re an ve ns , as a nt rd , nd as an ed rd .
23 . 23 ng es ng ng te es nd ns re ed to ce al on nd pe ng ts .
a di - te ce is ed ss he er of es it co - rs th a ed rn is at st ee es re an he er of es it co - rs th ns om ly ve es .
is ft nt is ch re nt of he le se in eb xt as ll as us un es an a rd nt .
te ns re ed in he me er ng ed
23 . 23 ng es xt , or ch te pl ks te es ng he er of ed ns at ey co - ur th so at es at ur th re ns re ed er .
te ns re ed ng an es - te of he on of ch rn p :
p on ( p ) =
ii nt ( i , p )
re i is he et of ed es or he te er on , nt ( i , p ) is he er of es in - ce i co - rs th rn p in he xt us , nd nt ( p ) is he er of es rn p rs in he or -
23 . 23 ng es or ch te , pl en es at st 23 in - es nd 23 ns ng to he gs om he us ep .
es nd ns re ly ed if ey co - ur th at st wo ed ns or in - es , ly .
on es re ly ed
hm 23 : ed al ( al ) ut : an gy o , nd xt us c ut : ed es / rs or ch te or i = 23 , 23 ,
ch te p o do
in ll ng al de to :
ry or ts ng ly rn rs or ch nt d; ct ew es ng s;
er rs at ct es at nk te s; te op s;
if ir ts re es or he ed es ( at is , ey co - ur th at st ne ed rn or he ry , nd re ot ed es of a tu - ly ve ry ) .
23 . 23 ge - le on pl as ed to ow nt ng of ny ed - es ly om a ge us of es ex - ed om eb xt .
ng he cs ed om he xt us is he st ve rt of he hm .
he cs ed me om wo es of es .
st , in he on ep , pl as a st of ed es nd ns , nd ds to ow ch ns nd in - es co - ur th se es nd ns .
ec - nd , in he ng nd ng ps , pl ds to ow ch te ns ur th ch ed in - es , nd ch te es ur th ch ed ns .
pl rs se cs om a re - ed xt us ch es ow ny es ch un se rs th ch ry rn in he or - us , nd so ow ny es ch ir of un es rs th ch on rn .
he ng an be ne ly ng ng he ce rk ( 23 ) .
in ch on of pl , pl rs us cs om is ta et by ng gh he ed ta in wo es : ne or ng es nd ne or nt - ng co - es .
pl an rm ne ss in ut 23 es om a ta et ed om 23 on eb es ( ee on 23 . 23 or ls on he us ) .
23 . 23 ed rn er in ur ts , we se a nt of pl ed un - ed rn er ( pl ) ch es he ng ts om pl .
es re ot ed ng mu - al on th er es , nd on ts re ot pe ed .
pl is nt to nt mi - ed ng of ch or .
23 ed al
pl is an le of a mi - ed xt rn rn - ng hm at is ed by ng .
to te ow ng an ve a nt , dy ed ex - on hm we er al ( 23 ) , a er uc -
. ml " s= " cp " 23 s< / a> r> ra , di , mw , ck , ac , et , vy , er , oo , su , ge , le , rd , . . .
< / r> <a f= " ws / 23 / ra , di , mw , ck , ac , et , er , ge , rd , mc , da , ai , ti , zu , . . .
li s= " se 23 " > <a f= " # " > ck , et , er , ge , rd , mc , zu , ep , ln , da , ry , an , ac , on , . . .
le 23 : es of rs ed by al or us eb es en he ds : rd , an , ta .
in he le , 23 is a er or ng es .
on hm , nd ow we an dd ng ts on op of an ng on at we at as a ck ox .
st , we ll be he ng hm , nd en we ll be ow we dd ng ts .
al is a et - on em at ts ut le - ts ( ds ) of me et et s nd ly ds er le ts of s in mi - ed ts ch as eb es by ng he eb ng he ds .
he hm ed in al ts ge - ic ex - on es , or rs , at re nt of he hu - an ge nd up ge of he eb es .
al an nd ts of ry es as ll as ry la - on es .
ry ry er is ed by ar - er gs , ch fy he ft xt nd ht on - xt ry or an ty to be ed om a ge .
on ce rs so re ed ng an nx xt at es he wo ts of he ce .
se xt gs re ed to be ly - ng on - ts at et at st ne ce of ry ed on a ge .
le 23 ws a ew es of ch rs or es .
an ce is ed by a er if it is nd re in he nt th ft nd ht on - xt al to at of he er .
en en ge ts of ds , al an be ed to le he ds me er of es ( 23 ) .
ng es a et of he ds nd es at et as a ry to a ch ne , ch is ry se ng ll es in ne ry ld ly ot ld ny ed ts .
al es ot ve a sm or ng al - on or pe - ng ts .
rs or ch te re ed ly in al .
ur go - hm , ed al ( al ) , ds se ts on op of al .
al is ed in hm 23
ch on of ng , we ke al ng he ly ed es .
al ns a st of ew te es nd ts at ey re ed om .
al rs ut ny nt at ts a an - te ce at is a er of a ly ve te .
ly , al ly rs te on es if ir ts re te es or he ve ry es .
se ms of ng ld er ut es re a ed et of ds ap - ns to ur on a ge ut at ge es ot in ct on - in a id st of te es .
ey ld so er ut es re es of a te at is re al an he ne ng ed re ed ( e . g . , if a ng st of ns of us es is nt on a ge , ut we re ng me ic pe of on ) .
er ng , al ks ll te es by he er of ed rs at ed em , nd es he op 23 es at re ed by at
hm 23 : ta - ap er ( bl ) ut : an gy o , a et of rs e ut : ed es or ch te or i = 23 , 23 ,
ch te p o do ch or e e do
ct ew es or p ng e th ly ed s;
er es at te al - on or te es at re ed by ll
st wo rs .
to al th eb es om he me in at at he me st , ly ne ge om a do - in is ed in ng es .
ut ng on to ns , al nd er te - ed ts at at ny es an ly ew he ts .
in ur ts ow , al rs to he hm ed re , nd al rs to al ut he l - ng ep : al es ot er ut rs at ex - ct es at te al - on ns , nd al es ot ce on ce pe ng .
23 ta - ap er
ta - ap er ( bl ) es he ng of le on es ng a ti - ew nt at es em to ee .
bl is ed in go - hm 23
bl is ed on he on at he rs de by nt on es ld be nt .
in is er , he te ms ed th bl re al nd pl .
en ng al nd pl th bl , he te ms do ot te es on ir wn .
ad , ey ip he on ep nd rt ce ut ch te to bl , nd bl is le or ng es .
bl es a le on od : bl es ny ce at as en ed by th es le ng he al - on nd pe - ng ts ed in
al on
we ed ts to re ee in ns : st , es ng ng ng al - on nd
pe - ng ts ve he ce of pl ve to ed , nt ng ng pl ? ec - nd , do al - on nd pe - ng ts im - ve he ce of al ve to he ed ds of al ? ly , es bl ve er or - ce an pl nd al by ng ir ts th a ti - ew nt ?
to er se ns , we an pl , pl , al , al , nd bl th pl nd al as te ex - rs or 23 ns of ng .
we en ed he es in ce en al rs of ds to ee he ts of ng .
ct on to us rk is lt or a um - er of ns , ng he ck of ty of en - ns nd he ck of a ge ed eb us .
er , ur on ly ts he ss of he ed ch at we re ng in is er .
we ve at he ed es re le nd ve ge - le ed es .
23 al gy
he gy ed in ll ts ed es nd ns om wo in ns : es nd ts .
ra es re ed to de ve ce to he in - ed es ( e . g . , by or ec - r; or , an , nd st or te nd h; nd me or rt ) nd so to de er ty or ts ( e . g . , pe , on ) .
le 23 ts ll of he es in he st mn , nd le 23 ts he ns in he st mn .
es re ed th 23 ed es nd 23 ed ns .
he ed in - es re ed by a an , nd he ed ns or ch ry re ed om he ic ns of st ( 23 ) .
ns re ed th 23 ed in - es , 23 ed ve es ( ly ct ia - ns of ve ed es ) , nd no ed ns ( ce it is ot us ow to te od ed ns om on es ) .
st es re ed as ly ve th ne er ( es of ns de am nd y; em nd e; nd ny nd ct ) .
23 . 23 us or pl he xt us ed by pl as om a 23 - on - ge eb wl .
we ed he ml , ed ut on - sh es ng a op - rd - io ld , en ed ut eb am nd lt nt ng a ad rd st .
he es re en ed to es , ed , nd ed th ts - of - ch ng he lp ge .
ly , we ed he es to te se at re ly to be sy nd ot ul or ng ( e . g . , es ut a rb , ut ny se ds , th oo ny ds at re ll al rs ) .
is ed a us of ly 23 on es .
as ed in on 23 . 23 , we ed se es to te a ta et of un se nd al rn co - ce ts .
to ge he ze of he ta et , we ed ut ll un es nd ts at ly ed ce in he us .
is ed a ta et at ed 23 on ue al ns or es , 23 on ue un es , 23 on ue rs of
un es at co - ur er , nd 23 on ue al ns or ns .
23 . 23 rs or al in ur ts th al nd al , we ed an on ed by he al rs of al .
al as ed to le he es ed 23 es or es nd 23 es or ns to te he ly er ty of ns .
al ed up to 23 eb es or ch ch ry ng ts om he le ch ne .
us , he us or al as he eb as ed by le .
he um xt th or a er as et to 23 , ch nt at ch rt of a er ed to be at st 23 rs ng .
23 . 23 al al re en ng wo ms , we an ch hm or 23 ns of ng , nd en ed he es ed by he ms .
to te he re - on of ll es ed by an hm on a er - te is , we ed 23 es om he et of ed es or ch te , ed er he es , nd ed he es to al rk or ng .
is ve an te of ow te ll of he es re nd ed he ee to ch a ar - ar od ed ic ft .
we so ed ms at ng ls of ll .
or ch te , we ly ed he st k es ed by ch hm , re k as he um er of es ed or at te en he wo ms .
we er to is od of on as he um ll od in he ts ow .
we ed 23 es om ch of se wo ts of es , nd so ed em to al rk .
le es of 23 es do ot ce ht on - ce ls or al es of on or a le te , ey re nt or ng or he ts in ch we re ed .
pl an ly ct he er se of an ce , ut ts of ms on he eb en se ry se on - ns , so al ot ly ct he er se of an ce .
se of is , ur on ed se , nd ed ll es to he rs in er se .
23 . 23 al rk ng he us es of on ed or ur al - on ed 23 ue es .
we ed ch of se es to al rk or ng nd ad ee nt ls el ch ce .
al rk as en wn to be an ve nd st od or ng ls or ge ks ( 23 ) .
to te he cy of he ls ed by is re , we ed 23 es at om , nd ly ed he cy of ir ls .
we nd at 23 ut of he 23 re ly ed ng he ty te .
he ur er - rs re : a se ve th gy re ed as an ld ( he rs ed he on or ) , nd ee se es : ms as a on - on , ve ts as re , nd he on in - ce ny ( hp , io ) .
is ts at he ls ay be ed ds se ga - es , ch in rn ts at ur on es in he er of he er ay be ic .
ed es ( # )
pl pl al al bl
pl pl al al bl
le 23 : on ( % ) nd ts of ed es or ch ry ng pl , pl , al , al , nd
ed es ( # )
pl pl al al bl
pl pl al al bl
le 23 : on ( % ) nd ts of ed es or ch on ng pl , pl , al , al , nd bl .
23 . 23 ry ne ls al nt es of ls om ur on re ed ne at tp : / / tw . ml . mu . du / ne :
ds or ll es .
ll es ed by bl , pl , pl , al ,
ll al ns ed by rn ng in he
bl , pl , nd pl ts .
le ge es in ml at of ll ro - ed es nd te es om he ns of bl , pl , nd al , th ns nd ls at ed ch ce .
ll ts ed om al rk .
an le ot om a al rk sk .
es ed to te he al rk ks ,
ch ay be of al se .
23 al on nd pe ng
to re he ts of ng es ng al - on nd pe - ng ts , we ed ou - ed nd ed ds or ng al at - ns or rm xt : pl : he hm as ed in on 23 .
pl : is od is an ed on of l; it es ot le es ng al - on on - ts or pe ng .
on ce ts re ot ed ng ir es nd te in -
es nd ns re ot ed ut ed on io - ns of al on .
he on / er un ns of ts re ed to er ut au -
we so ed ed nd ed ds or ng rs to ct ts of es om mi - ed eb es : al : he hm as ed in on 23 .
al : is od es he on of al ed by he rs of al .
as in he pl od , it es ot le he ng of es ng al - on ts or pe ng .
le 23 es es of he on of ed in - es or ch ry or ch hm , as ll as he er of ed es or ch ry er 23 er - ns .
he ge ow es ss ll es or ch es re ed .
he ed ge is an te of he ce - el on ss ll di - es ed by ng he on or ch te by he er of es ed or at te .
ta - le 23 es is on or ch on , as ll .
ss ll es nd ns , pl as er ge ci - on an pl , nd al as er ge on an al .
se ts st at ng ng pe ng nd al on ly es he or es of he ed rs .
er od of ng ch ms rm he st is to se he gn st , ch is a on - ic
pl vs .
pl al vs .
al bl vs .
pl bl vs
23 23 vs .
23 23 vs .
23 23 vs
23 23 vs .
23 23 vs .
23 23 vs
le 23 : us rs of ds ed ed on he on of ll ns or ch te ( ll ns ) nd he on of he es ed ut o at he um ll ut of he ir or ch te ( um ll ) .
ns rd ow ny es ad or on or ch od , nd he p - ue ng to a gn st is en .
ll re - ts re ly nt at he 3% el pt or al vs .
al at um ll .
re 23 : es of ed ts .
he za - ns of re re en in he ed y; ll er ts re ed by pl .
es wn or es nd or or ft - re re a et of he ll et of ed es .
is st .
he st ic ed to re , or ex - le , pl th pl , is ed by ng he er of es or ch pl ed er an pl , nd ce sa , ng es .
is st ly es es re ly ne od ed es : we er he od ch ed me es er an ne or ch es .
le 23 es pl vs .
pl nd al vs .
al or he on of ll ed es or ch te , as ll as he um ll le ed ve .
pl ms ly ly er an pl or th ds of ng .
al is ly er an al th ct to he on of ll ns , ut is ot ly er en ng ll to he um ll or ch te .
se ts rm at ng ds ly er es ss ll es an ng nt , ed ng .
he ts or al vs .
al st at ng ts al om ng me ct es ut th me ss in ll .
re 23 es me es of he pe of on ed in ur ts .
he al ed es ro - ed ed at re is a pe nd an co - r; he st of he on in he re as ed by pl .
23 le on es
es 23 nd 23 so ve es of he on of ro - ed es or ch te or bl er 23 ra - ns .
ss th ns nd es , bl as he st on of ed es ut of ll of he al -
ms ed , ch es at ng he ti - ew - nt nt ts in er ce of se - ic ft .
le 23 es gn st ts or ng bl vs .
pl nd bl vs .
al , ch ws us to ge er or ot bl es er ts te ms .
ll gn ts ow ly nt if - es : bl is or to th pl nd al en ng th he on of ll ed es as ll as he on of ed es at he um ll of er od .
is ts at ng pl nd al th a ti - ew ng nt at as - es nt rs ds re te ng an er od ed ne .
he ts ed re te at ng re
ng es he cy of ur ed rs .
ne of he st es in ng ap rn - ng ms is ng en to op he ap - ng ss .
ly , an hm ld be le to ct he es of a ed et .
in is ct , he ts or he ry ry or bl re ly ng .
bl ed 23 es of es th an ed on of 3% .
al ed 23 es th an ed on of 3% .
ut ng , ry er - ms ly , ng to a re al on ry .
he es or ch he ed ms ll ve he st ty ( e . g . , pe , nt , ts , es ) nd to be on ns .
we ct at a re te hy of on ns ld er in se es nd ld er es .
he ed ms ly ad gh es or ns , ut ed om ty .
ip - nt ed se he nt ry er - ed ly , ng in ad pe ng .
ap - al nd ty ed to he re al ns of ty nd as - ty .
se er wo es an be ed by ng he ty to er ve es ng he ge at se re al ns : ns at ct le ls or he me ty ld be ed ut ng is ge .
ur ts ed ve ns or ch no in - es re ed by ny ms : es - te , um , hy - nt , um , nd is - te .
se ns ow at me re - ns re ot sy to ct ng he on ds ed in is er .
er , ny of se ns ld be ed om es ed in ur nt rk .
we an to te ng to er ch ns .
we ve ed ds of ng he mi - ed ng of ry nd on ce ex - rs nd ed ly at ng re - ls he em of ic ft ed th ot - ap ng ds .
is al ce ds us to te ge - le ed ng as a gy to if - ly ve cy in mi - ed ng .
re sa : ct pe , ic or es : es , el , be op , ft ok , ad , aa or : ys , ap , ft , bm , ro , rs sa : al , ts am um : ca rk ch : es es hy : ld es am : es , ls , ox , te ox , ed ox , rs ts is rk is ed in rt by pa , le , a oo ! ip to ew on , nd he an ch es pq nd es .
we so ly wl - ge ie an or ng le is on of eb es , oo ! or se of ir 23 ng er , nd he us rs or ir ts .
