ct .
ng es a ul ol or he ic gn of us ts .
nt ch on ng ot ol as ly ed on ng le ks at re ed in on .
if ts er a de of ol ng ks er ir re me , er , re is an ty to er ge en em .
in er to do so , ts ay rn he ts of he al ks nd ts .
is sk - nt ge an be ed to as on en ng ol , ch es he ed or al - ld on .
we ue at ge er is al if ts re to rn ol th te ng es in ex os .
wo es to ng ot ng ch th re nt ge ut he ot nd ts ts re ed .
th es ve en ed ng a ro - 23 le ot .
ng ks ed on in wn or ts nd a le nd - nd - ch sk .
23 hy ng ?
ly , it as en en ed in cs ch at te a ri ge ut he ot , ts rs , nd st nt ts nt is il - le .
by ng he ty of te ls of th he ld nd he ot lf , he nd of ts ch ts an te in , nd ly he nd of ks ch ts an ve , is ed .
ns ly se om ur
ge ck .
a an er ad to de te ls of
he ld nd he ot .
ng ck .
en if ly ed ge is le , ng it er - le , i . e . , nd - ng it ls of ot rd - re , rs nd ts , as en en nd to re le ts of ng me .
ty ck .
it as ly ed at ny ic ot do - ns re oo ex to be ed ly ( tz et al . , 23 ) , ( ny ,
23 is er is so le as al rt ai - tr - 23 - 23 , ty of nn , pt .
of er ce ii , ch 23
23 ) , ( er , 23 ) .
al ty ed ut to be a re ob - le or ng ol es or ex ts in ex ns , nd ts re ar om ng ve .
on ck .
he ot ce st be se gh to ly
te ns at re ed ng he al ls of he ld .
nt ch on us ts as ed he gn of us ts nd ed ut a ng on or re ch in cs ( ee or am - le ( ks , 23 ) nd al rs in ( es , 23 ) ) .
ty nd al - me on ve ed ly re on an , or le , al - ty nd ss .
ny es ve ed he on at ct ld ge is me ms en te in he me re no in - ic al ge is le at ll .
ly , ys ts re ng ly wn , le ts , ey ve to nt es , re ir ts ly , er om es , nd ey ve to ve le es of ks .
if ts ck al ge ut es nd ir ts , ng es le .
he rm ng rs to a ty of ms at re ed by ir ty to ce ng or ct ld ge by on , on , nd on .
ng ts us ct ts of ir in ge es nd ve er me .
ey re ss en - nt on a an or to de is ge nd .
a ng ot re is ly le gh to al th a le ss of ts , ts nd / or ks ( ls ) .
ly he al or ge , if le at ll , is en oo ak to ve a te em ff - ne .
in er to ch a al , ng ts ly on he on th ir nt to ct in - on .
nt ng es er ly in ee ts : ir ay to do on ( on ) , ir ay to ze om he ed ri - ce , nd he pe nd nt of or ge at ns he ce of ir al es ut he ld .
re ll be no al , al ng ue or us ts , ce ng es re ed by a de - ff en he ee of ty , en by he ze of he ps in he in ge , nd he nt of ns ed or ng se ps .
ly ng , he re al a ot ng re , he re er - on we ct he ot to ke to rn ly , nd ce sa .
er , he ge of ng ng es to us ot ts is us : ng ts an te in a le ss of ly wn ts , nd ey an te or es , ce ey an re - st ir al ef ut he nt nd es .
er , ll ly ed ge is ed in he al ld .
it as ng en ed in ai at ng is a ey re or ng us ts le of ng re ex ks in re ic ts .
nt ch as ed a ty of us ng es at ow a ot to re ge ks of ge by it - lf .
ee or le ( el , 23 ) , ( re , 23 ) , ( au , 23 ) , ( an , 23 ) ,
re 23 he ot ol ng em .
a ot nt is le to ve he te of ts nt by ts rs , nd ge it ng ts rs ( ns ) .
a rd on at ps ns to ds es he ce of he ot .
he ol ng em is he em of ng a ol cy at es ns ch at he rd is ed er me .
( an nd ll , 23 ) , ( in , 3b ) , nd ( rs nd un , 23 ) .
at ly is he te em ed by ot ng ? et us ne a al on of ng ot ol .
me he ot ts in an nt w ( he ld ) .
ch me ep , he nt is in a in te z z .
by te we an he um of ll es in he nt at ay ge ng he me of he ot .
he ot is le to ( ly ) ve he te of ts nt gh ts rs .
it is so le to ct ng ts rs , as wn in re 23
et s es he et of ll le ns , nd a he et of ll ns at he ot an te .
ns ( ng ro - ns , if he ot es ng ) ge he te of he ld .
ce , he nt an be od as a ng w : z a ( id : 23 ) ! z om es nd ns to es .
or le , ne an us le ot se sk it is to ep he or an .
he ds ch a ot ll be ng in re gs , ng he es ng he ot , he rs , he rt on he rs , ns at lk by , nd so on .
te rs ht de a ra ed on he ts rm , nd he et of ll ns ht be he ce of ll ra es .
ns ld be go rd , rn , ch on / ff um , nd ft rm .
in er to ne he ls of he ot , we me at he ot is en a rd on r : s ( id : 23 ) ! ir , at ps ns to ar rd es .
he rd es he ss of he ot to ve ts ks : in he st le rm he rd is ve ( ay 23 ) , if he ot es ts ls , it is ve ( - 23 ) if he ot ls , nd ro se .
ve rd ds to re , nd ve rd ts in .
in he le ot in , or le , he rd ay be ve if re is no rt on he or , nd ve rd ay be ed if he ot es th he re or ns ut of ry er .
he ol ng
em is he em of ng a ol on f at es ns ch at he rd is ed er me .
re ly , a ol ng em an be ed in he ng ay :
ol ng em : s; a; w; ri ( id : 23 ) ! f : s ! a ch at f es r er me
is on of he ot ol ng em as en ly ed in he ld of nt ng .
( on , 23 ) , ( to et al . , 23 ) .
us ar , st es at ed om is ld ve ed ot ng th a al et of ns : he ot is le to se , it is le to te ns , ns ve an ct on re ns , nd re is a re - en rd on at es he ls of he ot .
he al of nt ng is to ze he rd er me .
te at is al on ks ny ns ut he ot at nd , ts nt , or he nd of rd ns he ot is ed to ce .
ce , es at re le to ly ve ch a ot ol ng em re al ng es .
ps he st ng on nd in st es to nt ng is at he ot is le to se he te of he ld ly .
if is is he se , it es to rn he cy as a on of he st nt on to on : f : s ! a , i . e . , he ol cy is ly ve .
as to et al .
ed ut ( to et al . , 23 ) , he em of ng a ol cy an en be ed by ic ng es ( an , 23 ) .
as it ns ut , en if ts ve ss to te te ns of ir ts , ng ol in ex ot ds th ge te es is ly ot le .
is is se it es en oo ch on to re he ge ed or ng rd , i . e . , to ll he ge ge ps , nd ot re is ow .
ne ht ue at er ng es ve to be ed at se he ng ty , le ll ng al .
re is ly ce or er ng nd on es at ly se he nt of on ed , it ms ly at ch es ll er be le to ex , al - ld ot ts th se rd nd lt ks .
he ty of ge on is nt in he on of he em .
al - ld on ll be he al ck of ny al ng ue at es ot ze or ge ut he ot nd ts nt .
hy do al ts ch as ns rn so ch er an al ts ? be a er on to sk is : is he ng em ed by al ts ny er an at of al es ? we ll ot pt to ve al rs to se al ns .
we ll , er , nt ut he ce of ge er nd ng ng ms in er to ke ts to rn re ex
23 he ty of ng nt ng
ns ly er a de of ol ng ms er ir re me , nd so do ts .
th , in is er we ll be ed in he ng ng em ed by a ot nt , in ch it st rn a on of ol es or a ty of ed ol ks .
ch of se ol ms , s; a; i; ii es he me ot th he me et of rs , rs , nd ay ry ly in he ar nt wi , nd in he rd on ri at es he al es or is em .
or le , an al le ot ht ce ng ks ch as ng es , ng il , ng al es , ng ts rk - ce at ht , nd so on .
in is io he nt ll be he me or ll ks , ut he rd on es .
ly , a ow - ng ot at is le to mb ts of gs nd ve ly on ls nd ws ht ve he ry le sk of ng ws .
it ll , er , ce le ts nd ws ( ts ) er ts me .
in he ng ng em , or ch nt nt nd ch rd on he ot nt st nd a nt ol cy , fi .
he ng ng em of he nt re ds to a et of ol ng ms :
ng ng em : s; a; i; ii ( id : 23 ) ! fi : s ! ag ch at fi es ri er me
of se he nt ld ch he ng ng em by ng ch ol ng em ly .
er , re is an ty or he nt to do ly er .
se se ol ng ms re ed in ms of he me s , a , nd ly he me w , he nt ld be le to ce he ty of ng he i - th ol ng em by ng ge it ed om ng er ol ng ms .
or le , a ot at st rn to er er er ut nd to ct sh in he me nt ld be le to se ch of at it as ed om he st sk to fy ng he nd .
he em of ng ng rs he ty or gy ng he nt ol ng ms , ch an ed - up ng er he me of he nt .
ng ot ng as a ng ng em es ch on ot - ng ng ms at er ed ge om ne ng sk to er .
ng ng ms ht rt th ow - ty ng ms , nd ly se he em ng er to er ob - ms .
ar to ns , re ts ht st ve to rn le ks ( ch as ow - el on , nd - ye on ) , nd , ce ul , aw ir at - on to ly re lt nd ex ng ks ( ch as ng up
re 23 he ot we ed in ll ts ed in is er is a ed ro - 23 ot th a or nd a er .
it is ed th wo ar rs , ne on he op of he ot at an be ed by a ng or to ve a ll 23 ep ( 23 es ) , nd ne on he st at an be ed by he or to ve a 23 ep .
ar rs rn te ho es .
ch rs re ve ut ry sy .
nd ng er er ut ) .
as , or le , gh ( gh , 3b ) nd in ( in , 3b ) te , ng ed ol ks th ng ty an lt in a le gy en se ol ng ks , nd an im - ed em ng er .
in ir ts , ed le ts re le to ve re ex on ks en he ts re en er , ed ng ks nd .
ey so rt at ir ms re le to rn he me ex ks in on , ng ut he ce of ge er or ot ng .
he er of he er is ed as ws .
in he xt wo ns , we ll ey nt wo es to he ng ng em .
th es ve en ed nd ed ng a ro - 23 le ot th a ma - or wn in re 23
in he st ch , ed on - ed al rk ng ( nn ) , we ll me at he nt of he nt ys he me or ll ol ng ks .
is ws he ot to rn sk - nt on ls .
ce ed , se on ls de a ns of ng ge ss ol ng ks .
in nn , ch on ls re ed to in nd ze ns .
in on 23 , we op he on of ic ts .
ad , we be a le us ot at as to ve he
re 23 de : ng th he al te 23 , he on ce 3; 3; : : : ; an ( id : 23 ) 23 as ed to ce he al rd rn .
he ot nt es ts on ls , ch re us es in he me nt , to in he ed de nd us as ng .
ee xt or an on .
me sk in nt , ed ts .
we te ow is ot ht rn nd er nt - nt ge at es he is - cs of ts rs , as ll as nt cs of he ts .
in on 23 we ll ew me ed es to ot ng ch so ze vi - ly ed ge .
as we ll ee , re re al es of es at an be ed to es .
he er is ed by on 23
23 ng ns in ms of or es
as ed in he us on , he ng ng em ed by a ng ot nt is he em of ng ns of ks in es of ts er he re me .
in is on we ll aw ur on to a ar ub - pe of ng ng ms , ly to he ng ng em of ts at nd ir le fe ly in he me nt .
is ed ss of ng ng os ys an nt le in us nt ch .
ny ve ot ts , ch as ng ts , al ot ms or al ts , ce a ty of ng ms in he ry me nt .
in ch os , ge ut he nt an be ed , ce he nt ys he me or ch sk .
he on - ed al rk ng hm ( nn ) , ch ll be ed in is on , rs sk - nt ge ia ed on ls ch re ed ly ng em ng .
23 ng on ls
ts ve ir ts ( nd es ) by he ts of ir ns .
in er ds , ch me an on is ed , he ot ay se ts rs
to se he ay he ld as ed .
et us me or ty at he ot is le to ly se he te of he ld .
as ed ut in he us on , ng ol es to ng a ve 23
if he nt is ly le , al rk ng es ch as he ck - on ng re ( rt et al . , 23 ) an be ed to el he nt .
re ly , ch me an on is ed , he us te ed by s , he on a nd he xt te s rm a ng le or he on el rk , ed by m :
h s; a i ( id : 23 ) ! s
on 23 re us ns of he pe m : s a ( id : 23 ) ! s .
ce we me at he nt is he me or ll ks , on ls re ts at ow or ng ge om ne sk to er .
ch al ol ng em es a nt cy , i . e . , ng a ol on fi : s ( id : 23 ) ! a at , en ed by he nt , es he ng rd ri .
in al , fi is lt to rn ly .
ng he as of nt ng ( ( el , 23 ) , ( on , 23 ) , ( to et al . , 23 ) , ( ns , 23 ) ) , we se he em of ng fi to he em of ng an on on , qi , ed er es nd ns .
qi : s a ( id : 23 ) ! ir , re s; a is he ed re ve rd ed er ng on a in te s .
me or a nt he nt ad ed an te on on qi .
en it an ly se is on to ct al ns at ze rd er me .
en me te , s , at he nt ds lf in , it es ts ol on a by ng ts le ns to ne ch of em es he st qi ue :
a = aa s; a
ce s; a es he re ve rd , a is he al on if s; a is ct .
he em of ng a cy is us ed to he em of ng an on on .
ow an an nt rn he on on qi ? to ee ow ng ta or ng qi ht be ed , er he io ed in re 23
he ot
23 we ly id he ex em of te nd sy on on , ce he hm ed in is on is nd of al to ch on se es .
ee ( ch nd er , 23 ) , ( an , 23 ) , ( in nd ll , 23 ) , ( er nd ch , 23 ) , ( st nd re , 23 ) , ( an , 23 ) , ( ad nd rd , 23 ) or es to ng th te on .
23 ee or le ( to et al . , 23 ) , ( an , 23 ) , ( ro , 23 ) , ( un , 23 ) or
re es to ng on ls th al ks .
nt ns at he al te 23 nd ms he on ce 3; 3; : : : ; an .
er on an it es he rd rn = 23 : 23 ch , in is le , es at he on ce as ly ul .
at a st ce , is de an be ed by he nt to ve ng es or he on on qi by ng he al 23 th ch te - on ir :
h 3; 23 i ( id : 23 ) ! rn = 23 : 23 h 3; 23 i ( id : 23 ) ! rn = 23 : 23
h sn ( id : 23 ) 3; an ( id : 23 ) 23 i ( id : 23 ) ! rn = 23 : 23
an ve ng od , ch as he ck - on ng re , an se ch ng es to rn qi .
as he er of ng es ws , he ts al on of qi ll ve , ng in it ng ly ve ns . 23 ce at or ch ol ng em s; a; i; ii , he nt st rn a ct qi , ce he rd rs or nt ks .
23 he on - ed al rk ng hm
ow an he nt se ts ly ed ge , ly he al rk on ls , to de ng of he on on qi ? as ed ut er in is er , we re ed in he ng ng em .
ce we me ut is on at he nt is he me or ll al ol ng ms , al rk on ls re nt in ge at is nt of he ar ol ng em at nd .
in he on - ed al rk ng hm ( nn ) , he nt es se on ls to as ng of he ol ns .
23 or on of he on , we me at rd ll ly be ed at he nd of an de .
nn an be ed to ry rd ns .
ee ( ll nd un , 3b ) or re ls .
23 te at re ed ng es or ng on ns ve en ed .
in is on , ns ( ns , 23 ) es q - ng , a me or ng on on k; ak ly .
in q - ng in - ng ns re ed ed on he um le q ue at he xt te : k; ki ( id : 23 ) ! xa 3; a .
ed , in ll ur ts we ed a ar bi - on of ns ve me nd he on - ve me ed in he er .
is on is ly ed to ns t d ms ( on , 23 ) .
ce he ct re is ot al or he as ed in is er , we ll it ny ls .
a nd on , so ed ly , is to nt rd er me .
if ns re to be en ch at he er of ns is al , rd is ly ed th a nt or 23
he ng ol cy ly rs er rd to re nt rd .
ee ( ll nd un , 3b ) or ( un nd ll , 23 ) or a re ed on of se es .
re 23 ng es : et f be a et on or ch ee es 3; 3i , 3; 3i , nd 3; 3i re wn .
ed on se ts he er ht te he is g .
if he ut - ut es re so wn , he er an do ch er : h .
nn ks as ws .
se he ot es he ol ng em um - er i , i . e . , it as to rn he on on qi .
he ng me ed ve es ng es or he ed on on .
ve er - on ws he ot to ct gh ta to rn he ed qi .
er , is ss es ot ze he ge ed in he on ls .
as - me he nt as ed dy te on ls at el he ct of ns on he te of he nt .
of se , se on ls ll ly be ly ct , ce ey re ed ly om a te nt of ng ta .
in nn , he nt ys se on ls to in , ze nd ze er om he ed es .
is is ne in he ng ee
in .
an on is a st - to on of he ed te - on ce ( ng nd ey , 23 ) , ( ll et al . , 23 ) , ( ll nd un , 3a ) .
ng th he al te - on ir 3; 23 , he nt st - to ts nt es up to he al te sn ng ts al rk on ls .
ce he on ls re ly ly ct , ic - ns ll te om he ed es .
ze .
ng ed he le de , he on is ed to ct er on at is ul or ng he on on qi .
in ar , he nt es ow a ll ge of he es es ll ct he al rd , nd us he ue of he on on .
is is ne by ng al es ( es ) of he et on qi th ct to he ed es in he de : st , he nt es he al ve of he al rd th ct to he al te sn .
ce at he rd on rs , ng ts ve , is ed to be en to he nt .
se es re ow ed ds gh he in of on el es .
al rk on ls nt le ns .
ng he in le of on , he nt es he al ve of he al rd th ct to he ng te sn ( id : 23 ) 23 by ng he al ve of he rd th he ve of he al rk on
is ss is ed , ng ll al es of he al rd ng he le de :
re m : s a ( id : 23 ) ! s es he al rk on el .
he rd - te es ze he ce of he te es or he al rd .
te es ed ( by he on ls ) to be nt to ng he al rd ll ve al es of ro , as ge ve es te he ce of ly nt es .
he ly ed es te he es of he et on on qi .
re 23 es he ce of he pe ma - on of he et on .
se he wn et on is he on f ed in re 3a , nd se at ee ng es re en : 23 , 23 nd 23
an ry us on or , or le a al rk , ht ze he on g wn in re 3b .
if he es at se ts re wn as ll , en he ng on ht be ch er , as ed in re 3c .
nn es a ed ng me ng th es of ng or - on .
he et es ( c . f .
on 23 ) or ng qi re ed om on , as he et es , en by
r h sn ( id : 23 ) 3; an ( id : 23 ) 23 i ( id : 23 ) !
r h 3; 23 i ( id : 23 ) !
k; ak ;
re ed om ng he ns ng in ge ed in us ol ng ks .
th es of ng on , he et es nd he et es , re ed to te he ts nd es of he et rk . 23 ly , he in ge is ed to as he on .
ce is as is le , it ll ly ce he ed or al - ld on , ce te ng .
23 as rd nd es ed ut , he ck - on hm an be ed to t et es as ll as et es ( rd et al . , 23 ) .
ir hm nt op ly es ts nd es of a al rk ch at th he ue nd he pe or re ly ed .
23 ng ct on ls
al ts th nn on a ed ot on sk ed a nt up in ng en he ot nt ad ss to ly te on ls ( ll nd un , 3b ) .
if he on ls re ot ly te , er , he ot ce an ly er om he is .
is is se he ed es ht ry ll be ng nd ad on .
is ns es an al on or ch on ng nt ng nd ge er : ow an a ot nt al th ct or ge ? ly , if he nt ks ng ce , ny ly ed as ht be or nd ng .
ut en in he st se , a ng sm at ys ly ed in ge ld ot ke re me or ng ol an a ng sm at es ot ze or ge at ll .
ow an he er id he ng ts ng om or or ge ?
in nn , us es re ed nd ir ce is ly ed .
re ly , he cy of he ed es is ed ed on he ed on or of he on ls .
or le , if he on ls ly st - to ct he ed de , he ed cy of ll es ll be 23
se , if or me of he on ls in he in of el es ve ed te te ns , he ng ed cy ll be se to ro .
he es of he es re ow ed en ng he et rk .
ce nt op ws to ht ch ng rn ly , he ed es an be ed to ne he io th ch ue ng nd pe ng re ed en ng he et pt .
re ly , in nn he ep - ze or ht es is ed by he ed pe cy en ng es .
as ed re ( ll nd un , 3b ) , ng pe ng by ir es as nd to ly ce he ct of us es ng om te on ls .
we ed nn ng ne nt ts of on ls at re ed th nt ts of ng ta .
th ll - ed on ls in he ed ot in , he me up as ed as re .
th ng te on ls , he ce of nn ed at of rd nt ng ut ge er .
in se ts , nn ed ly th ng rs in he on ls .
se ts re ng ce ey te he ty of ng ng ms at re le to et om ly ed as , en if is as is or .
23 a te le : ng to ck up a up
we ll nt me al ts ed th ur ro - 23 ot .
us ar , we ly ed he ct of ly ed ge on he
re 23 he ot es ts or nd a ar or to se he ce to a up nd to ck it up .
ng ed or ew ol ng ks .
we re ed he on od - ls nd th ly ed ng ta .
he ot nt ad to rn a cy or ng nd ng a up .
he ot at nd , wn in in re 23 , ed a nd - ed ar or to ve ts nt .
ar ta as ed to te he on nd ce to he st ct , ch as ed as he ld te on .
ot ns re rd ( es ) , rn ( es ) , nd ab .
ve rd as ed or ul ps , nd ve rd or ul ps as ll as or ng ht of he up .
in is nt , ns re ed by ee te ks , ne or ch on .
he ks or he ed ns rd ( es ) nd rn ( es ) ed he ce nd he on to he up ( ne en er th 23 ts ) , as he el or ab ed he ty at a re - en , en - op ng ng ld ge to ck up he up ( ur en ts ) .
ll on ls re re - ed om ly wo ed ng es ng an ge of ve ps ch , ch re ly ed nd .
re 23 ws as an le he on el or he ab on .
ce is ar on el ed he ty of ss of he ng ne , he rd on as ly he ty ng rs = s ( th he nt ve 23 ) .
he on on q as so ed by ee ct ks , ne or ch on ( 23 en ts ch ) .
er ng he on ls , he ix ng es or he on ks wn in re 23 re ed by a an er ho ed he ot .
we ed a on of t d ( on , 23 ) th = 23 : 23 nd ns q - ng ( ns , 23 )
23 eg 23 23 eg 23
re 23 on el or he on el ab .
he x nd y is es in he le nd ce to he up .
he z is ts he ed ss of he sp on , i . e . , he ty at he ng ds .
th ce ay ( in , 3a ) or ng ol .
re 23 es he ed q on or he ab on th ( ht ow ) nd ut ( ft ow ) ng he on ls nd nn .
in is al ge of ng , en le ta is et le , he on as om he re - ed on ls is nt .
gh ne of he q ns as et ed , he q ns ed ng nn ve a pe at is re ct , nd ch is ly to be ed ed ly on he ew ed ng ts th no al ge .
or le , en er ng ix es he in ng re ts ve rd ly ed on he le of he up , as he ed nn od as dy ed at ng ll il if he up is oo ar ay .
is on , er , is ot ed in he ng es ( re 23 ) , ce re is no le le of an pt to sp a up ar ay .
it er ms at he es of he el re ed to he et on on .
is es he ct of he es in nn : he on ns ed th nn ed he on of he ce of he up nd he ss of he ab on om he al rk on el .
if se on ls re ed in an er ol ng ks , re ld be a nt gy ct en em .
he nn ts in is on re al .
ey re ed se ey te at sk - nt ge , ce ed , an be ly ed by nn en ng he ng sk .
ey re so ed ce ey ed nn in a al ot in , ke he ts ed in ( ll nd un , 3b ) , ( un nd ll , 23 ) .
er , us ar we id ot ct gh
re 23 ix ng es or ng ol , ed by 23 to 23
he al is es he le of he up , ve to he ts dy , nd he al is es he ce to he up in a ic le .
ul ps re ed th + , ul th .
ce at me of he es ed ng nd ng .
ng ta to rn a te cy or ng nd ng he up th er od .
re ch ll ze he gy ng he ll se of ng il ce .
it ll so nt th es of ed ks , ch as ng nd ng nt ts , ng ps at ie on he
23 nn nd ng ot ng
at on es nn ch us in he xt of ng nt ng ? in is on we de he ng on at ll ol ng ms of he ot nt ay in he ry me nt .
if is is he se , ny pe of ls of he ot nd ts nt re ng es or ng sk - nt ge en he al ol ng ms .
in nn , sk - nt on is ed by al rk on ls .
se ls as on en ng ol ia he ss of ng nd ng ed es .
nn is a od or ng nt ng , ce it ns nd re - es ed ge at is nt of he ar ol ng em at nd .
gh he al ts ed in is er do ot ly te is nt , nn is le to ly ce al - ld
ut al ng , 23 es
th al ng , 23 es
re 23 on ns or he on ab er ng 23 ( er ow ) nd 23 ( er ow ) ng es , nd ut ( ft mn ) nd th ( ht mn ) ng he on el or ng he on .
on by ly ed as .
in ed ts th a ed ot ed re ( ll nd un , 3b ) , we ed a nt ed - up by a or of 23 to 23 en re - ed on ls re ed .
it is nt to on at we ct nn to be en re nt if he on of he te ce is er .
is is se or ch le on nn ts a d - al pe or om he nt , if d if he on of he ut ce .
ur re is at th te in es he on nt es ly th he er of ce es ( e . g . , we ld ct a ee er of de nt or a rk th 23 ut es ) , ce ch ve ed by nn an be ed ly as ng on nt to ne ew ng le or ch of he d ut ns .
is re is ly nt th ur ts in
he ed ot in .
he ve ce nt ht se en re if er - er es re ed , ch is ot et he se in nn .
it is nt to ce , er , at he ty of he on ls is al or he ce of nn .
th te on ls , nn ll ot rm er an a ly ve ng re .
is es ot se .
es to he ng ng em ll ys be at st as nt as on - ng es he ot es ts st ol ng em in ts fe .
he ed gy ct rs er , en he nt as ed an te in - ic as , en it is re re .
23 ng ng in le ts
in he us on we ed on a in pe of ng ot ng ms , ly ms ch al th a le nt .
we ll ow us on a re al pe of ng - ng os , in ch he ts er or he al ol ng ks .
as ed ut in on 23 , re re te a ew ot ng os re a ot as to rn ol in le es of ts .
or le , a um ng ot ht ve to rn to an nt gs .
ly , an us le ht ve to rn on in al es of in .
ti - nt os de ss es or ng ge .
at a st ce , ng ge ms rd , if he nt is ot he me or ll ol ng ks .
ut en in is pe ms re re ts at ay be ed nd ed as a as .
he ey on is at ll ng ng os ve he me ot , he me rs , he me rs , gh ey ht ve to al th a ty of ts nd ol ng ks in .
es to is pe of ng ng ms us im at ng he cs of he rs nd rs of he ot , as ll as ts in he ts , if re re ny .
he le of ng nd ng sk - nt ge is he me as in he us st he pe of ge at is ed rs .
so ar , re as en le ic ch on is al pe of ng ot ng os .
in he er of is on we ll ot be a al ng sm , ut a ar ch to ng he cs of he ts rs nd he ts .
ng he ro - 23 ot as an le , we ll te ow se or ls an nt a le as ch is nt of he ar nt at nd .
re 23 he ot es an wn nt .
te he le in he le of he ry .
ur ab es ny us ar es , nd is a rd ed or ar - ed on .
or le , me of he rs rb nd st ly , nd re us rd to ct by ar .
23 ng to et ns
at nd of ts an be ed ss le ts ? wo va - ns re al or he ch ed re .
st , he ot nd ts rs re he me or ch nt .
nd , re ht be es in he on - ts at an be ed as ll .
in is on we ll be a al rk ch to ng he cs of he ts rs , as ll as se of al or ts .
he sk of he le ro - 23 ot is to re wn gs ( un , 23 ) .
ng a ew or nt ch as he ry nt ed in re 23 , he ot as to er nd nd to se ts rs to id ns .
in he on sk he ot es wo of ts rs : a ng ar or is ed on he ad of he ot , as wn in re 23
he ot so rs ts ls rs to ct ck or ng ls .
ve rd is ed or on ch an be ed ng he el rs .
ve rd is ed or ng ns re he ot as ot en re .
ly , he ot es ot ss ny ge ut ts rs nd he ts it ll ce ut ts fe .
ns re ed 23 - al rs of ts ( ar ns ) , ng th a le it at es he te of he ls .
in er to fy ng , we me at he ot as ss to ts x - y - es
re 23 sk - nt ge : ( a ) or on rk r nd ( b ) ce rk c .
in a al ce me ( es he on of he ot ) . 23 on in wn ts is ly a ng ot ng em .
ly , he ot as to ce ns , ce he al ge es ot ce to nt om em .
ns ll be ed by ve rd .
in er to er ge , he ot en as to rn ow to et ts rs in er to nt ns .
is ge is re - ed or ch nt he ot ll ce er ts me .
er me al on , he ot ld be le to er in ew , wn ld le ly ng ns th
we ll ow be a ir of ks ch rn or - ic ge at an be re - ed ss le nt .
he or on on , ed by r , ps or in ur se a ar to rd or - on .
re ly , r es or ry ns se to he ot he ty or a on , ed on a le ar an .
re 3a ws r .
ut to he rk is a or of ar es , er th he es of he ry nt x; y ve to he ts al te me .
he ut of he et - rk is 23 , if he on ts a on or is nt , nd 23 , if he rk ts ee - ce .
is on an be ed by rd ed ng ms , if he ot ps ck of ll or gs nd of ll ns re it ed ( nd re it id ot de ) .
as he ot es , it ts ps at el ed ns nd ee - ce , ch is ed to rm ng es or he or on rk r .
as al , he ot es ck - on to rn r .
in er to nt he us ot re om al - ld ns , we
23 if he ot ls re ct , is x - y - on an be ed ly by ad ng .
he ot at nd , er , is ot se gh , nd er 23 to 23 es of on he al ed ly te ly om he al es .
an ch to ng ch ol rs is ey ed in ( un , 23 ) .
( a ) or on
re 23 ng in ge in he ks r nd c .
( a ) or ns nd ( b ) ce es re wn or he ng es : 23
ay , 23
ay th en or .
ay th an ng by , 23
er of a om , 23
er th le , 23
al es .
es te ar re - ts ( es ) , nd he on ss ts in ( a ) he ed on rd or ng as ( rk es te ve rd ) , nd in ( b ) he ce el ( rk es te ow ce ) .
ed a ot or nd ed it or ng he ng ns or he on rk .
in he or he le ot nt is wn , nd ng es at ap ns to cy on an be ed ly .
in a ew es he ed ot ed ts ed ld , ng
re 23 ap ng : ( a ) aw , sy or ut on an on th th 23 ts .
( b ) ng el , ng to he ab wn in re 3b ( ab ay is rd om ft ) .
he th of he ot is so ed ( om ht to ft ) , ng he on of he ly wn ab .
in he xt ps , he ot ll ss he or of he ab nd re he ay .
a al of 23 23 ng es .
ix es or or on ng r re wn in re 3a .
he le in he er ts he ot , nd he es al to he ot nt es ed by he rs .
he ty of ve rd , as ed by he r , is ed in he ar ns nd he ot : he er he on , he er he ty of on .
as an be en om is re , he rk r as ly ed ow to et ar ls .
if ar es re ll ( ng at he ar al ed ck ly ) , he rk ts an le by .
se , ge ue gs re ed as ee - ce .
he rk as so ed ts in he ng ts .
or le , al es of ls re wn .
in re 3a - 23 , or le , he ot ts a ng le of a in th , ut nd is le it ts a ly ow ty or on .
is on is ng , en at ar rs ot ee gh es .
in he ng ts , er , ns nd ls ed to be ee ly en , ch ns he x - ay ns by he rk .
is es ar ce at he or on rk es ot ly nt ge ut he ts rs , ut so ge ut in ts of he ts at nd .
re 23 ab nd or : ( a ) el , nd ( b ) ce ap .
23 ng ps
we ll ow te he ed or a nd rk , he so - ed ce rk c , ch is ed to r .
as an ee en om re 3a , a le ar an an be ed to ld a ll al ap nd he ot .
if he ot es nd nd es al gs , he ng ns an be ed to rm a 23 of he ld .
er , re ll be ts in he ld re he ns om le ns ll ee .
re re wo in ns or ng ns : st , ar rs , ke ny or , re sy es .
ey en il to ct in ts ch as th es or ts th ng es ke me of ur ce rs .
nd , rs re nd or as nd es .
ce ns or ns nd an le ll be ey ly ct he ge ty of cy ( he or ) .
is on es it ry to gn a sm at es ts en nt ns .
we ll ch is em by ly ng he ty of he er - ns , nd ng he ty as ng or en ng le ns .
re ly , er a ng se or he on et - rk r .
or me of he ng es , r ll ge to ct he et ue ly .
or rs , er , re ll be a nt al or or he
23 ee ( ec , 23 ) nd ( es , 23 ) or ed es to ap ng nd ot
re 23 ap ed ng he st ai us ot on in an se , ly 23
he ap ts he ge of he ot er ge 23 of he on .
in is nd he us ge , he ot ad to nd nd ch en ly ed es , le ng on th es .
es rk he ry of he on ea .
he ap is ow te ce it as lt on wo te ys , nd he ns of he ot nd he es re ot te al .
we ed or ch es by ng he ce er
ns en ve .
is or is ed to in a nd rk c , ch is ed ce rk .
he ut to c is he me as he ut to r .
he et ut is he ( ed ) on or of r .
er ng , c us ts he ed on of he or ns , ed by s; x; y .
he ce to se on s; x; y is us en by ( id : 23 ) ln s; x; y .
en le or ns re ed , he al on es re ed , ed by ir ce ue .
re 3b ws ce es or he ns ed in re 3a .
re rk ns nd to ow ce .
se , ht ns te gh ce .
as an be en om se es , he ce in ns nd es is ly ow .
ow ce is so ed or ry ns en ee - ce nd es , is es ot se , ce ar es ct ts in a 23 ne .
ey do ot ll re in he ne an ct as nd .
ly , he ne - re of ts is rd to ct .
ar to he or on rk , he on -
ce rk ts ge ut he rs nd he ts of he ot at an be ed ss ts .
it is nt to ce at th ks , r nd c , nt ed ge at is nt of he ar nt at nd .
se ks ct as a as in he ng ss , en he ot ts an al el of a ew nt .
he es 23 to 23 ow me le ps at re ed or nt ts .
we ed he ks r nd c to nd ls of ur ab ( 23 ) .
a le on - ve hm as ed or on at ly ed al - st ns to he st ed on .
ls of he ab nd he ay re wn in es 23 nd 23
gh th ks re ed in on , ey ly ed he ot om th es .
he me ks r nd c re ed on a us ot on , at as ld ng he ai ce in ly 23 in an se .
re he sk nd nt ed om he ts he ot ad en ly : he nt as a ge na ed th er es , nd he sk as to nd nd to te to 23 ly ed es .
he ot ad no on ut he on of he es nd he es .
it ad to re nd el he nt by lf .
he al on ( we ed he ot us ) as ar re ex an at is ed re .
us on as ap - ed , nd he ve ap ng re as a nt of us ol .
he ot ed he me ks at re ed by he or nd ed in ur ts in he ab .
er a al of 23 es on ng wo te es of he on he ot ed he ap wn in re 23
he ks ed ps at re te gh to ct he ot om ny on th an le .
ey so ed he ot to nd se - to - al hs to he al ns .
23 or on nd ng ot ng
at is he on of is ch to he em of ng nt ng ? of se , ng or on es ot ly ve to be ed as a od or ng as , nd he ed od is by no ns a al ng me or ng ng ms .
er , or he se of is er we ll ze ap ng in ms of ng ot ng .
ly in ch ew nt he ot ly as to rn ol .
is is se ly , en he ot es a ew , wn nt , ts ge es ly ot ce to te ns at ze rd .
he ot en ly ns a cy or on on ep - by - ep , nd he al ps de he om or ng , he ge ps ed ng he se of on th he ld .
ng al wo - al cy ps , er th he ic ng ne at es on ng se ps , is ng ol .
us , ng al rk or ns rs a ng ve or ch in ng ot ng in le ts .
gh th he ts nd he ls ed or he al ot ol ks in
ur ts , we ve ed at ge er ld ly ce al - ld on .
he ot id ow ut ns in th al - ld ts ut er ng ed ne , ly ed on ly ed ge .
we ve at ds ch re nd ze ls of he rs , rs ( ot ed re ) , nd ts in he ts re ng es or nt ot ng in re ex ng ng
23 ed rk
es to ge er in he ng ng ms an be ed as es or ng on on as .
us rs ve ed he ce of ng as nd ng ge ss le ot ol ng ks .
ey an ly be ed to he ng te -
ng ls .
on ls re ps he st rd ay to rn nd er sk - nt ge , if ll al ol ng ks al th a le nt .
es at ze on ls if - er in he pe of on ls ey oy , nd he ay he on ls re ed to as ng ol .
on ( on , 23 ) ts a em at ns on ls , ke nn .
he es se ls or ng al es at ne he ol cy .
in is ts he nd a en - us up in ng ol en ng se on ls .
nn rs om is ch in at it es ts on ls or ng al - ld ob - ns , nd in at es a sm to er om rs in he on ls .
in ( in , 3a ) es a sm re st ce is em - ed nd ly ed en ng ol .
he on of st ce ms a on - ng on el .
in so ts nt ps en ng is ay sm .
as ed ve , ce ay as so ed or al rk ng in nn .
us ar , re as en le ch on ng ls at an ct as a as in ng ng ms th le ot ts .
ng rs nd ns .
a nd ay of ng nd er - ng ge ss ks re rs .
rs re rs ( es ) th ow en he rm or rs to ve rs .
re - nt ng , or le , an be ed as a ue or ng rs .
rs rm ct on es , ce he ic ns of he ot ht be ed by he on of ng a or .
us , th ro - te rs ct on es an be ed , nd es of ns an be ed .
ng rs es ng ol by ng he ch ce of ll le es , ly or wo ns .
st , he um - er of rs is en er an he er of ns .
nd , rs
ly re ed or er ds of me .
he er nt is ly re nt nd es a er as or ng ol .
gh ( gh , 3b ) , ( gh , 3a ) ts a ue to rn ex ks by st ng rs or le ks ed on nt ng .
se rs nt ve rs .
he gh - el cy is ed in he ct on ce ed by he ow el rs .
in er to ep - nt en he gh - el er as a ly ve on , gh es al ng ns on he pe of ks nd or on .
in is al is , in ( in , 3b ) es a ed me or ng be - rs , on es nd on .
he es at a an or es a ot a et of al rs ch ce or ll ks ch he ot ll ce er ts me .
ke gh , is ch es ot ee at al er an be ed in he it .
ly , an nd on ( an nd on , 23 ) ed a em at es a re - en al on to rn ol on nt ls of on .
ch el of on rs in he in - ze of he ry on , ng in if - ly ed rs .
ce ir em ns ve rs on ch el ng nt ng ms , it is ar or at pe of ms is re ll rn ly , ce al on ay be ed en ng te or on to ly ve
ng ve on on as .
er , re or - rd ch to ng nd ng ge is to rn he ve as of he on rs ed or ng ol ly .
on ( on , 23 ) ts a me or ng ce es or ce - ed , al on es .
in is hm , ng rs re ed at ws to ht nt ut es ly .
on ( on , 23 ) ts a ly of ng es at ow to rn ve as ar to an rs ( an , 23 ) .
gh he id ot be is ds in he xt of ng ol , is ch as en ed by ng ge ss le ol ng ks .
ng ns .
ns , er th ve as , de - ne he ay a on or es om es .
ny re - rs ve ed on ng te ns in er to rn as .
or le , tt ( tt , 23 ) es al es at ow to re - se ed ns in en ts of al ks .
gh he ld ly te at is er ld ly ce he er of ng hs ed or he ce of he ck - on hm , he ly nd al ts in he on .
a im - ar ue is ed by ey nd ey ( ey nd ey , 23 ) .
me rs ve ed ge er if al ks re ed ly .
or le , th nd en ( th nd en , 23 ) ed at le ng ks of in es an ss - ly de nd ve on .
in is ch , he es ts to al
ks in rm of al ut ts at rn a ly ed sk .
se ts in he al on ed by he rk .
in a re al ay , na ( na , 23 ) ly ed to rn le ns of ks in el , ng a ed al on .
he on - es at ti - sk ng ll ke al rk ng ms le to re ex ng ks .
th es to he ng ng em ed in is er ll to he st ry .
in nn , he ot ns on ls ch as on in he on ns .
or on ns re se ls of he rs nd he ts of he ot .
in he ot on ks , he ot us ns ls of lf nd al ts of ts ts , ch as he on of he al ps .
as ed ut er , on ls re ll - ed if he nt is he me or ll ng ks , as or ls re te or ng nt ng in le ts .
in is er we ve ed a ng ng ve or us ts .
we se ot to dy ot ng ms in on , ut in he xt of he de of ng ms at a ot ll ce er ts me .
ng ot ng ns he ty or er of ed ge .
is ge ay be ed as a as en ng ol .
gh ol ng ds at ow he er of ge re re ex as st ms at ve ed ol ng ms , ot ng lf be - es er .
ts at ze nd er ge ly ss on al - ld on nd us rn er .
is is se ly ed ge ay ct as a le as at ay ly ce he re ic as of ve ng ms .
we ve ed th wo te es he al gy ct of ge er .
se es ed wo in es of ng nt ng os , ly se at re ed in a le nt , nd se at re ot .
we ly ve at ge er is al or ng ot ng ms to re ic nd ex ns .
ng ly ed ge es ng ol .
se ts rt ur al im at ng es er , if it is ed to a ng ng xt .
we nk he mu ot ng up nd he us am at mu or lu - le on at ed to is ch .
we so nk ke ka
re 23 ( a ) he ty of nn ot no ( ed by al ld ce , nc . ) , ( b ) ap ( ly 23 23 rs ) ed by no at he ai - 23 ot on , ng he ue ed in is er .
or is le lp in ng nn .
is ch as ed in rt by he cs ab , ht ch nd de - nt er , al ms on ( sc ) , u .
ir ce , ht - on fb , oh 23 - 23 er ct 23 - 23 - c - 23 , pa er no .
23 nd by a nt om ns on .
he ws nd ns ed in is nt re se of he rs nd ld ot be ed as ng he al es , er ed or ed , of he u . s .
nt or ns rp .
ce is er as ed , nn as ly ed to a ty of al - ld ng ks .
in ( ll nd un , 23 , un , 23 , un , 3a ) , lt of ng nn to le ot on ng he mu er ot re ed .
nn as so en ed to ot on ( ll et al . , 23 ) ,
( an et al . , to ar ) , ct on ( un nd ll , 23 ) nd he me of ss ( un , 3b ) .
in ( un nd ll , 23 ) , a on of he ng ng em in he xt of ed ng an be nd .
he ch to ng ar rs or ng cy ps ed in ct .
23 as en , th ht ns , ly ed in he ty of ns ry no at he 23 ai le ot on ( nn et al . , to ar ) .
ly , ps re ly lt or ge or as .
