on , th a ch - ed er he ot nt ly es ch on it is to rm , ng he us - se em en le , nd ng ck on he ng em en ry .
er ed to an , it es an on - ed sm to te a ew us - se le to er is ew on nd rs ar to it .
th ce , he nt es ly ve as ts ng nt es ew us - se es at te he ed or ng in ar nt ns .
is eo - nt re is ed , nd ts re ed ng ts ty to ce me or a le le ot om es to er a nd .
on nd on
ch on as
ly on ve es or ic ts at ly se ir nt nd te te ns to ir se li in ed me ( e . g . , ( ks , 23 , re nd an , 23 , in , 23 ) ) .
ch es er es er re al en - op ch - ed ng ms se ey an ct re ly to es to ir nt , nd se ey an te re ly in ds at re lt to el in ce .
ch - ed ng es , on he er nd , er he ge of re al - se ( if er ) em ng ms ch de he ty to al th a re se et of ed ls nd ns .
is er rs he on of ow to ne he ts of ve nd ch - ed es ng us ts .
we be he eo - nt re , ch es th a ve nt nd a ch - ed ng nt .
he al gn le of he eo - nt is at it ts en it an , ns en it st , nd ns by ng ts ve nt er it is ed to an .
en ed to ol a ry le ot , he eo - nt in le es ns to ce ts on
me or ew ks om al es to ss an a
he ch ed re is rt of ur er rt re , nd ds on er rk ed ( he nd ll , 23 ) .
we ve at in er to me ly ul , a ng ot ll ve to te al es of ng :
23 it st me ly ct at ng
he ts of ts ns in he ld .
q it st me
23 it st me ly ve , by ng he me ed or it to ke al s; to se ns nt th he ve ns nd ts ls .
se es of
ct ts ss .
is er es on he nd of se es of ng .
we be ow he eo - nt es he pe of ns or ch it an ly ke al er it is ed to an or a on de he nt pe of ts ve nt .
ed ng sm es es at nd ly he me on as ed by he er er , in ly se ns in ch he me an le ld ly .
er , he ed es er he ed on ly om he ut se ta in a le ce ep - - ut ng ly he ts ls , le
ed rk
re as en a at al of nt rk on es or ot ol ch ly se he nt nd te in ed me ( e . g . , ( ks , 23 , rs , 23 , re nd an , 23 ) ) , gh is pe of rk as ot ly ed es of ng .
es ms em ( re , 23 ) es on - ed ng to re ng cs or a ed nd - ye em , nd ds ar ( rd nd om , 23 ) as en ed ms in a al nd - ye ot em .
le se rs re ur al of ng ms at re
to ol an or
he ng es ry ly in he rm of he ge ng ed , ng ns , nd al se me .
on as ed an ve ch to ng ot ol es , in is na em ( on , 23 ) , nd au as ed a st em ch ( au , 23 ) .
in on to rk on ng ch ot ol es , re as en ch nt st in ot ng re ly , ng rk ct ls of ns ( en , et al . , 23 , ic nd th , 23 ) , nd rk on ng
he rk ed re is so at ed to nt as or ng ow - el ve ms om gh - el ns ( e . g . , ( in , 23 ) ) .
ar , ch on ms ut ns of ns nd ls to ve ol es , ng ns ar to se ed by on - ed ng in he eo - nt .
he in ce on - ed ng ed in he eo - nt , is at or he eo - nt on on is ly ed by he ds ly ed by he nt , nd ay be ed th er ng ms ch ve he ts ls of ts ns .
he nt , so at
he xt on of is er es he eo - nt in er il .
he nt on ts an le of ts se in ng a le le ot , he ng sm or ng ew ct of ng nd le ng on em on me .
he al on es me of he ns of is rk , ng es nd gs in he nt gn of he re .
es , nd ng ta ng
he eo - nt re
he al of ng
he gn of he eo - nt re is ly es of ve nd ch - ed ms .
ve ms er he ge of ck se .
ch - ed rs er he ge of ad pe or ng a re se ge of ed ds .
he eo - nt re ys th , nd es ng to ly nt ts ve nt er ed to an .
in on , he re es ad se of ng nd to id ss on of ly ed fs .
he ry cs of he eo - nt re :
e it ly
es at on
rm .
he nt ns in a ht op in ch it ly es ts or ts , es a ol on , ns ng it , en ts is
e it ts en it an , nd ns en it st .
it st se an on , he em ts a et of us - se te ts ve nt .
if ne of se es es to he nt ed ts , en he ng on is en .
if no es ly , to ne an
it es a ew us - se le .
he ew le ds he on ch he er as ed , in he me ns ( i . e . , se ld es or ch he me an on ld ly ) , ut an be ed ch re ly .
ng is ed by an on - ed ( ll , et al , 23 ) ) , nd es a nd - en al on to an nt of he rs ge l ry ef
at ds on ry
ed as ng as ts on ns id .
ef of ch on to rm xt , nd ly or ly on ed se ta .
he re ns a rk of ns or ry ef of he nt , nd es fs ly en ir rt es .
is ng of fs ly es he se me of he nt by ng on of fs in he ce of ng or nt or ts .
in he eo - nt ,
e it es ch al to nd to , ed on he ed ld te , a ed et of al on nd on ns , nd en es ng ls .
23 ed . ld . - p ' en .
+ - - - - - - - - k - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
re 23 - l : ta ow in a eo - nt
he nt ly es
al re of nt : a eo - nt is ed by a me re se ts , ts , ts , tc .
ne he ts fs , or al el .
he wo st nt ts of he nt re en . on , ch m; nd ed . ld , ch es he ts nt on of ts ld .
as ed in re 23 - l he nt ay er ts en . on er ly om ts ed . ld , or ly om ts nt an .
ts an is in rn ed om ts ed . ld nd ed . to . al .
he ed . to . al es he al to ve , nd is ed as he st ty of ts ve . ls , ch re es ed om he ed . ld .
is ly ng
nt ls : ls re ed
to he nt by ng ns er ch ey re ve , ed , nd ed to .
or le , an nt ay be en a al ge . ry ch is ed to me ve en it es ts ry el to be ss an 3% , es ed en he ry ge is o% , nd ch is ed to er it is ve nd he ( er ty ) al id . ng . le
ng cy : he ic on of he eo - nt is to ly er a ue or ts en . on ot .
ch ot of he nt ly as ne or re ed es or ng a ue on nd .
se ly ss er ts , ng to ts of he ed . ld .
er me ot ue is ly ue is ed ( ed ) in he ng ot , ng th an on ng ts ue in ms of er ot es , ch re in rn ed in ms of rs , ng ly to es of al es in he ed . ld , ch re es ed by ly ng he ot rs .
es in ed or as ng as ir ns in id .
us , he ts ve . ls nd en . on ay in ed or ny es , te nt es in or ts .
is cy of ys ng es , ng ly en ns me id , nd ly ng on nd , es at he ts fs in ts ut es , ut
ol cy : he eo - nt
is ed by
ng he ng op :
se nd te gs or ll ly ed es of ed . ld , nd te ny ed es or zy ed es .
de on he nt en . on 23
te he en . on
en he en . on ot is ed ( ng he on on of he ve le ) , he ng ps re ed in ce il ne ds : 23
ve he ed ue of is ot ( if le ) 23
er a ue ed on he le us -
ct he st ep of he ts an ( ng a
an if ry )
ct he lt on ( e . g . , it ) ng cy : ch ve ed ut ( e . g . , an ay of ut ar ta ) is ed in me ot of he ts ed . ld .
er el es ch as es in he ar ay , ns , on th , tc . , re ed . ld , nd re ed on nd om he er - el es .
he on - ng ns of he nt aw on he re ge of ow to gh el ry es as ed .
in er to al th a ty of ng es of ng st , he eo - nt es of ve ed se - ch it ly es , nd se ch it ly ed es re ed ly ng ch le gh he ts in op , so at nt ed fs of he nt re ed en le .
in st , ly ed es re ly ed ng ch le .
ed ly if he nt es he ng ot ng me nt le .
is on en ly nd ly ed es es a le us of on ch ws ng he ad of ng ew se ta ng ch le to a um .
ng cy : er he nt is ed to an in er to in a ue or ts on , ts on - ed on ne to re a ew us - se le to er is on .
he ls of is ne re ed in er il in he xt on .
he ct of is ng cy ly nd he pe of he et of us - ed by he em in ts ld .
he es of em
le nd ts
he se of
is on es
to ch he ry
re to op a le am to ol a ro 23 le ot ge s* .
in ar , we te ow ls nd ns re ed to he ot th no al us - ts ns by ng ns , nd ow it ly es us - se es at er ts ne ns .
he ot rs ed in is le
ic ar ed on ts nd , a ng ar on
he eo - en t is ed
ng nd ng
nd ng ms .
em ed eo ( ll , et al . , 23 ) ,
on op of a ic
3a ed on of he m . ed ro 23 ot ed re is
in ( in , et al . , 23 ) .
ts ad , nd a ry ge or .
by ng ts nd nd ad rs it is le to in ys of ar gs at re ho ce us on le .
se aw ar gs re ed ( on nd ) to te es in he ar ay , as ll as ns , nd es of ns ch as on th , ce , on , nd ty .
he ve ng ns ed in he ry ge el , rw , ch es ar ge ep . st . ll , ch ns an ay of ar gs by ng he st om ft to ht .
of se ed es , rw is ly ed , nd he rs re ly ed .
he st ar ed ly
de ry , ch
he ot ns re
rd 23 es ) , rd . 23 ( ve rd 23 ( rn rd he st ar in nt of he ot ) , nd re . he . ct ( in al al ar ps er he st ar on in nt of he ot is a ge an ) .
he . ct rs to he st ar on in nt of he ot , as ed by he se re
is eo - nt as en ed by ng it nt ts of al ls , ng it to le ut nt ts of us - se es ng nt rs .
in he le le ed re , he nt is en
he rw se
23 al . er : ch nt ts .
is al is en 23 nd 23 es , ng an ct at it is ed en rw is ss at 23 es , nd ed
23 al . er : ck ff om se ts .
is is ed en rw is en 23 nd 23 es , ed en rw is er an 23 es , nd ed to er it is ve .
st ar on ds to a ge an .
is is ed en re is an ct in nt of he ot se is wn , ed en he ct ty is wn , nd ed to al . er re ve .
in er to te he on of he eo - nt , er he ce of ts at ts om ng he ot se in he ab th he ve ls , ns , nd ng es : ng he st on gh ts op , it ( ly ) es a ng of 23 om rw , ng an ct at 23 es .
in he de se of en . on ot , ch as no ed ue , nd no ed us - se es .
us , it is ed to an in er to ne a ue or en . on .
he er es ch al he nt is ng to , en es or a ce of
ns ch it ts ll fy is al .
us , he er es he ng . to . al ot , ch es he ve . ls ts , ch ry he ld , he er , er me ch , en es a wo - ep an to te wo es in a ow ( is an ds to a ed ar ng of 23 es , ch ld en . on ot is us rd . 23 ( he st ep of he
he nt es he lt of ch of he ve ot es , ng th an on at es ch ot ue in ms of he es om ch it as ed .
es ch ef ( ot is rk of ns ue ) of he nt ly to ed es of ts
in he ve io he nt ad to ct a an in er to er ts en . on .
re , it es a ew us - se le ch ll nd en on in re ns , ut ng .
he nt en es he on nd ns a ew le by he rw re nd ng ny er ed es ( in is se he ed ry el , ch as ed by he er as it ed he or us ns ) .
ng is nd le , he us - se le ed ng he st le es , nd he nt ly es te rd . 23
as it ns ce , es al es nd an ng on of ts ns re de by ng se us - se es er an ng .
in he ew on
le ng
he le on re ed by he eo - nt is an on - ed ng hm ed bg ( ll , et al , 23 ) .
is re ns hy he en . on of he eo - nt is ed , ds he st ns er ch is on ds , ly , en me en . on , ? on , he eo - nt ns hy ? on ed . on ( ? nt , ? on ) t
( 23 ) he ng . to . al of he ? nt is ? g ( 23 ) ? g is ed by lt of ? ts an ( 23 ) he il of ? ts an ll ot ed ut
st ng ? on
( 23 ) ? on is he st ep of he ? ts an
en . on is a ed . on as ed ve , en es he st ns on he ed . ld
er ch is on ll 23
er , or le , a io in ch he ro nt is ng to nd as ed a he al al . fy . he . ct , re 23 - l ws he on ed by he em or hy ce . he . ct in is re , ch ne ds to me ef of he nt , nd el of on ts cy .
ch ef is en in he rm ( me ot .
. . ) ue .
nd ws ch as c - - ed . ue - - te ow he ef ve nd ft of he ow as ed om he fs ow nd to ts ht .
or le , he st ef at he os is ed by he ( 23 al . fy . ct ed ? ) =t , nd ( 23 ) ( wo re . he . ct ec . at ? ) il .
wo is he nt ed . ld , 23 is he ld te ch is ed to lt om he ts an , nd ec . at ? he te ng er he ns of an on re ed in a en ld te .
se ee ng fs nd to he st ee es in he ve on of ed . 23
ce he rd se es at in is se he il of he ts an ot ed ce he ns of he nd ep of he an re ot ed in he al ed ld .
( 23 ) ty of he . ct
is ot wn
( 23 ) rw in ed . ld ( 23 ) ot ( 23 < ? s < 23 ( 23 ) ot ( 23 < ? s < 23 ( 23 ) ry in ed . ld ( 23 ) ce to he . ct
( 23 ) 23 <= ? st <= 23 ( 23 , 23 ) on to he - ct
( 23 ) ot t - 23 <= ? ir <= 23
( 23 ry ) = 23 ( 23 ry ed - ue )
( 23 ry ) = 23
ce ) = 23
on wn ? ) = t
ce ) = 23
on ) = 23
( 23 ry ed . ue )
on wn ? ) = t
of ro = ce - he - ct
re 23 - 23 : le or on om re 23 - l
re 23 - 23 ws he sh on of he le om he on of ft of ch le
ed by he eo - nt re 23 - l . - he er
re 23 - 23 : on or ( ro ed . on ) = ce . he . ct
rd se on ed . on es
at he st ep of he an be al to he ns ss .
ut is nt , he on is oo ak , nd an ce es at nd on - al ns ch as it , ed ey an be
he th se is ot en de it , ce is is ed by
ng he le on to nd he nt on .
ed . on ch is ed by is on .
or le , he st ur es in he le re at he ot is in a ld te or ch it ld nd to he ( i . e . , ey re at is al ll be ve , nd at ll er ty ls ll be ve ) .
of se is le ed ot ly on is al or ny er , ce it ad ns ed se es ch ly he on of he nt ls .
ly , he le ed ot on he an , ce it ad ns se ns , ed ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , ch re at he st ep of he an ll ad ly to ng he ed al .
in ll , he nt ly ns om ve to en us - se es or is et of ls nd ns , ng on ts ic es nd he ce in ch ey re ed .
by ng nd ng er ls nd ns , er ts an be ed at ll le ut to ts of us - se es at ce nt rs .
ct of ce on nt on me th ce , he al on me of he eo - nt in he ve io ps om a ew es to er a nd , ue to ts on of us - se es nd ts ng of fs .
et us ne on me as he me ed or a le on of he se - de - te op of he nt .
ly , ne ng me , on me , nd on me as he me ed or he ng ns of is le .
on me is ed by wo rs :
l on of us - se es .
ng a us - se le es on he er of en ds , as ng ly es
l ng of fs ut re ld es .
he me ed by ng is ed as a lt of ng ll nt fs .
ns of re ld es ed by he er ( e . g . , he st ar ng in he ld at ll lt om ng he on to he nt ed . ld ) re ed , nd in as fs of he nt en er ts ed ld is ed .
me ed es of is ed re ld ay me ed ch le as ld ed es re ed by er es , ut rs nd to in .
he nt in nt on me is ed in he ng ta om a al io , wn in le 23 - l .
he st ne ws on me nd al on me or a se - de - te le in ch a an st be ed .
ce at re on me es he lk of on me .
he nd ne of is le ws he st of ng a ry ar an on he xt le .
he up er he st ne is ue to he se of ot he st ng es ch re ed ng
le 23 - i : ct of ng on nt se me
( gs re in sp on a 23 on )
de , nd se ns in id gh he nd le .
he rd ne ws he ng or a rd le in ch he nt ed a et of ed us - he me on .
re , on me ( 23 ec . ) is le to ng me ( 23 ec ) nd he me to te on of he ot on ( 23 ec . ) , so at on me no er es he lk of ll on me .
he on me is nd ly to re re 23 + 3r ec .
to st a et of r us - se es .
es ve re nt on he ar nt ls , rs , ng ce , ns , tc .
ng to re ex ts at re ds or ds of us - se ed us - se gs .
es ch as te ng , or ng us - se gs in ( in , 23 , ks , 23 ) ay be nt or ng to er ms .
at nt , he nt lt ed re is ly he ce of at he ng ms ed in he eo - nt re nt to ce on me by wo rs of de or a al ot th ly le ls , so at on me es to te ll on me of he nt .
or ng nd ng
pe of rk
ry , ns nd re rk
he ey gn es of he eo - nt re : e a us - se
em ed th a ng nt of er pe ut er me .
is on ws ck se or ne ns , us ty to an en el ns re ed .
nt of he em .
en ed to an , he nt es ew us - se es at
es re ly ed in ce th no ed ng or
el ch ms .
ce ly he me on as he nt an , in ly he me ns .
23 he nt es
ts wn ls ed on he ed ld te , al on ns nd ve al es .
ls re ly us - se es ws , he cy th
he nt ly en he er of
he nt ly rs
ed ng th an on
23 ng nd cy ce
fs of he nt .
ry ef of he nt is se fs on ch it ds .
er he nt se ts ge , nt fs ch re ed re ed , to be ed if nd en ey re ly ed .
23 on en ly nd ly ed in er to ze he er nd on on me , ed se es re ly ed ng ch nt le .
er es re ly ed by ng em nd em if nd en ey re ed .
us of on sm at ps ze se me .
in ly ol he nt of ly nd ly ed es .
re re al le ms of he nt
re , we pe
ns .
ng se re :
23 he nd of ng he nt ms ay be ly lt in ny ns , ue to ck of ge ut he ld , he ly ts of he ts ns , or er es in he ld .
ne le se to is on is to dd ew on - ng ms nd he nt er nd us - se em .
or le , ne ld ne a on - er on er ld es , th an on ns ed on ne - ep ad ( ar to at ed ( ng , 23 ) , a um of le - on ss .
er , ng ms ch as se ed re ht ll le us - se es om he ns ed by is um of on - rs .
ly ve , ts ns do ot me se es re ly as od as he er nd on ls om ch ey re ed .
we re ed in ng he em to ow it to ly rn er ls of he ts of ts ns , as a lt of ts ce .
ry
ts th is nd of ng ng a nd - ye ot re ed in ( en , et al . , 23 , ic nd th , 23 ) .
in ly or ys
* he nt er rs he ss of ts ns , ut ot he st of ng or or ds .
re , he ns nd he us - se es ed om em ay er to se es ch re te ve to in , nd ch te in er to ee ss of a an to ck up a up , it ht be ry to fy at he up is ot ed to he or .
he nt em ld de ch a st in he us - se le at ds he sp on , ed is re as ed by he er .
we st nd a ay to ow he nt to se ch ts re ry nd ch an be ed in er to ct le ns at it an en pt , nd er om as ed .
23 ng es .
as ed in he us on , he nt ot em es ly a ll et of us - se es to rn ts or .
we st er ow he ch an be ed to re ex ns .
me es re to ( 23 ) ge ( e . g . , ex es by al , so at ny ts of es re ed er an a le et ) , ( 23 ) op a re ve gy or ng ng ly en he ts gh he ts , nd ( 23 ) er ns of he ol ed al st al ks th nt se me ) .
at ce ve on
he on of
ve ms om re al ut er ch - ed ms is an nt ch rd ng he ty of ic ms le ll ng es .
he ic gn of he eo - nt es ne ay to ze ch a em .
ur nt re by ng ew ng ms at ll ow it to ve he ss of ts on ls nd ts es to ly ve ts ld .
se al ng es re ed to nt he pe of ng ed re .
is to nd
ts .
is rk is ed on ns to er nt rk th im he , ed in ( he nd ll , 23 ) .
nt ns to he gn of he eo - nt .
ks so to he re eo up , ch ed he eo em on ch eo - nt is lt .
eo es on , nd ng
i am st ul
ms ed by he eo - nt .
ly , ks to ng - ji in ho ed a er of he es or ng om ns to he ot .
is ch 23 - 23 - k - 23 nd by sa er ch ct
by pa er
