ng es he ty to ze om st pe - ce in er to al th ew ns at re ed to is ce .
he ve ap ed to al th ew ns ms to be le ly er in es or ng ne on of he on er er .
is er es ly he on of as in za - on ms , en ws at es re ry or he ve ap .
es of le es re ed , nd he ip en as nd in - ce
we ct he pe of is on to he em of
ng om ng es , ed as ws :
he on em
ge of es .
ge of ns .
ng te or ng ns to in -
ts of ve nd ve ng es .
on ( s ) nt th he ng es .
as a te le of he ve on ob - em , er he sk ed by ns am or ng es of ck es ( on 23 ) .
re , he ge of es is he on ed to de - be le ck es .
he ge of er - ns is he ge in ch ed ts ( e . g . , ch , er ) re ed .
he ng te es er a en on es to a en ce ( e . g . , er he ed on of an ch is ed by a ic ck re ) .
is er es a ep ty th he al - on em as ed ve : if cy th he ng es is en as he le er of ro - te ns , en a am an er ke he ve ap ry to fy es nd se it as ed .
ly if he am as er es of in - on , or es or ng ne on er he
ed to ic on by : by es , as te
re 23 : ps ng es nd za - ns ( is re as ng om he al on nd ed in 23 )
er , an it on - ly fy es nd se in he ng et .
in is er , we se he rm as to er to ny is or ng ne on er er , er an ct cy th he ed ng es .
at is an ed er
if on is he em of ng he ss of in - es to ch he ve ng es ng , en an ed er is ne at es no a ri as - ns ut ch es of es re st ly , ut es ll ts es on he ed ta .
wo om - on es of as in ng ng ms re ( 23 ) he on ge is ot le of ng ll os - le es of es , nd ( 23 ) he on ce - re at es gh he ce of le al - ns is lf ed .
an ed on ge in ng as in he on ge , it is se - ul to ew ch on as ng he et of in - es at it es .
in re 23 , or le , 23 nd 23 re wo ns le in me za - on ge , nd ch es a nt et of he
ve to a en ge of es , an ed on ge is en ne ch ws ib - ng ry le et of se es .
in rt , an
ed on ge ds to he er et of he en ce ge .
he ct of ng a ed on ge is ar : ch et of es or ch re is no ss - le on is a pt at ld be ed to he am , ut ch he am ll be le to de - be nd re le to rn .
if it is le to ow ad of me at in ts of es re nt , en it ay be ul to ve se ut of he za - on ge , in er to fy he ng em .
or le , on es of he ce ( e . g . , ( on 23 ) , ( an & ll 23 ) ) ce a ng as of is nd , ch es ly he ty of he en -
he th of he as ed by on an - es ed to ve ts on es , is ed by a le le .
er an ce an - ge of ry re rs ng 23 es , nd a on ge at ws ng ch ea - re ue to be 23 , 23 , or nt re .
me le th - ic ws at ly ut ne ut of ry 23 ts of es is le in he on ge .
is on ns ly as he er of es nd he er of ed es er re es .
an ed on re he on re es or le en - ns at te ts of es , ch of ch in - es ll of he ve ut ne of he ve ng in - es .
of se , re ay be ny ch ns .
in re 23 , or ce , if he ed ve es re ed in he on of he ce ts of 23 nd 23 , nd he ed ve es re de th ts , en th 23 nd 23 re nt th he ed
an ed on re is ne ch ws no ce or ne le on er an - er , pt on he is of cy th he ng
ng ( ll 23 ) , we ne he on ce ve to a ar on ge , nd a en et of ng es , as he et of ll le en - ns nt th he ng es .
en an ed on re st te he on ce ve to he ed ng es , nd he ro - ed on ge .
ch a on ce - re is ed in ( ll 23 ) , nd as en le - ed as rt of he ta - al am ( an & ll 23 ) .
in er to er he es of an ed en - on re , it is ry to er ow a om - ed on ce an be ed to fy nt in - es as er ve or ve .
an ed si - on od es he ew ce as a ve in - ce if nd ly if ry on in he on ce es it .
he ce is ed as a ve ce if nd ly if no on in he on ce es it .
if me , ut ot ll , of he ns in he on ce ch he ce , en he ne ot be as -
ed th ty .
he am ld , er , ve an ed on ed on he on of er - ns in he on ce , at ch nd do ot ch he ce .
he ty of ng es
or a on em to be ed or it to on - er ly ll le ts of es as he le ty of he ss ng ed it st oy an bi - ed on ge , nd te he on ce ve to at ge nd he ed ng es .
gh ng ll es om a on ys - em ay em to be a le al , in ct he lt is ly ss .
an ed ng ms ty to as - fy ew es is no er an if it ly ed ll he ng es nd ed a up en ed to fy a nt ce .
to ee at is is he se , er he re de - ed ve or ng he ed on ce to as - fy ew es .
or an ed on ge , he ew ce ll ch ry on nt th he ed es if nd ly if it is al to ne of he ed ve es .
ly , to be ed as a ve ce , he ew ce st be al to ne of he ed ve es .
re , ny ce at as ot et ed as a ng ce ll ch ly lf he ns in he on ce .
as a lt , en he me ed ve or ng he on ll il to ce ul ts .
in ct , it is ot ng at an ed en - on em ot ke ns of es er an he ng es .
an ed em is ne se es ly ow om he ng in - es , as ns of he ew es do ot ly ow om he ns of he ng in -
ul es of es
re is an nt on to he ve on : if ly ed on ms re le of ng he ve ap to za he ew es , en he er of a on em ws ly om ts es om ns ed on ia er an cy th he ng es .
re , ss rd ng ng ms ds on ng he es of , nd on or , us es .
is on es in ds of es at ve en ed by ng ms .
al ge of he in .
in ng er - ns or a ar se , it ay be le to it he ns ed , by ng to wl - ge ut he sk in .
he ta - al am ( an & ll 23 ) ms al es at ar - ze ar ds at nt in a ss om - er .
re , al ge of he in , ch as ou - le ds ly ak , an be ed to in he ch or te ns .
ly , in a am at ns he es of ll ( ay & an 23 ) ,
ed on ms at se cy th he ng es as ir ly ce of on , ot rm ms at se te ng .
di - al on or es re re al to he il - ty to fy es at re ot al to he ng es .
is ct as nt ns or ch on ne ng .
if es nd al ge re at he rt of he il - ty to ze nd ed ta , en ts to dy ne ng st us on he ed se or ge , es , nd on in ng he ng ss .
it ld be se to ke he es nd ir se in ng ng st as it as st ch as de he ns nd ir se .
he ng le ve ed ul ts on us ts of is er , nd ve ed ir wn as : ul el , ge al , n . s .
an , nd ul ff .
is rk as ed by ih nt rr - 23 - 23 , nd by an rd om he rs ch un -
