er he st 23 rs he dy of ne ng as wn om he ts of a ul of er en - rs ng er rs ld rn to ay es , nd a ld of cs at ly ed al ns , to a ad ne at as ed al al - al es of ng es , as ed ng ms at re ly ed in al ys - ms or ch on , er on , nd a ty of er ks , nd as un ff an ry in ta ng to er en es in he ng es of ne ta .
is nt es a ef nd al ew of he ne at as ed as ne ng , he al ns it es , ts ip to er es nd ty , nd re it ht be ed .
ds : ne ng
23 ng ns
a ic ld is st ed by he al on it es .
he ld of ne ng ks to er he on
ow an we ld er ms at ly ve th ce , nd at re he al ws at rn ll ng es ?
is on rs a ad ge of ng ks , ch as ow to gn us le ts at rn to te om ir wn ce , ow to ta ne al al ds to rn ch re ts ll nd st to ch ts , nd ow to ld ch es at ly ze to ir rs ts .
to be re se , we ay at a ne ns th ct to a ic - ar sk t , ce ic p , nd pe of ce e , if he em ly es ts ce p at sk t , ng ce e .
ng on ow we fy t , p , nd e , he ng sk ht so be ed by es ch as ta ng , us ry , se ng , ng by
ne ng is a al th of he on of er ce nd cs .
we ht ay he ng on of er ce is ow an we ld es at ve ms , nd ch ms re ly le / le ? he on at ly es cs is at an be ed om ta us a et of ng ns , th at ty ? he ng on or ne ng ds on th , ut it is a ct on .
as er ce as ed ly on ow to ly am rs , ne ng es on he on of ow to et rs to am es ( om ce us me al re ) .
as is - cs as ed ly on at ns an be ed om ta , ne ng es al ns ut at al es nd ms an be ed to st ly re , re , ex , ve nd ge se ta , ow le ng ks an be ed in a er em , nd ns of al ty .
a rd ld se ng on is ly ed to ne ng is he dy of an nd al ng in gy , ce , nd ed ds .
he ns of ow rs an rn nd ow ls rn st ly ve ly ed rs .
to te , er , he ts ne ng as ed om es of an ng re ch er an se it as ed om cs nd er ce , ue ly to he ak te of ur ng of an ng .
ss , he gy en es of ne nd an ng is ng , th ne ng ms ch as al ce ng ow ng ed as ns or al ls ed in ng ls .
er he ng rs it is le to ct he gy en es of an ng nd ne ng to ow ly , as ey re se rs in he pe of re ic ns .
er ds , om gy to cs to ol ry so ve a re st in he on of ow ms an ly pt or ze to ir nt , nd ne ng ll ly ve an ng ge of as th se ds er he ng rs .
or le , cs is ed in ns ch as ow ed ns of lf - ed ls ay rm a em ( et ) at ns es ng to to - al ns or he st on od .
nd ol ry , ly ve ol ry , is ed in ns ch as ow a vo - ol em an ve ts ol gy gh ce .
ly , he al ls or on in se er ds re at nt om se ly ed in ne ng , ng nt al or ss - on of ls nd es .
he ng ns ss he te of he rt of ne ng , a le of ul ca -
ns , nd a le of en ch ns .
23 te of ne ng
re we be me of he ss in ne ng , as ll as en ch ns .
23 on es
ne re of ss in ne ng is ts nt al - ld ns , ch as se ed ow .
gh we ow ke ny of se ns or ed , it is th ng at as te as 23 re re st no al ns of ne ng .
ch on .
ly le al ms or ch on ll se ne ng in ne on or er to in he em to ze ch .
he on is le : he ch on cy is er if ne ns he em , an if ne ts to am it by nd .
in ct , ny al ch on ms ve wo ct ng es : ne re he re is ed ( ng he al em in a er - nt on ) , nd a nd se er he er es he re ( to ve er cy by ng in a
er on .
ny nt on ms , om ce on ms , to ms at to - ly fy pe es of ls , re ed ng ne ng , in se he ng ms re re te an nd - ed ms .
ne ve - le on of er on ed ng ne ng is ts se by he us st ce to ly rt rs ng en es .
er 3% of en il in he us is ed to - ly , ng ng is re ed to ry gh cy ng ne ng er a ry ge ta et .
io - ce .
a ty of nt ts to ct nd ck se ks ow se ma - ne ng .
or le , he ds ct es al - me on of ns ts to cy ms ss rn ia , nd he se of ne ng re to rn he le of al ns so at it an ct us ns of ms nd ir ph - al on .
nt rk es ng in a ch et of al ta , ch as il es of er - he - er es to se he on ow to he em , er ng he ed or ed ng ds en is en re ex ta et .
ot ol .
ne ng ds ve en ly ed in a er of ot ms .
or le , al rs ve ed he se of ne ng to re ol es or le er ht nd er cs .
he nt pa - ed ti - on ng a ot ng ly or er 23 es in he rt as on by a ot at ed ne ng to ne ts ty to ct nt ts ( ng lf om lf - ed ta ng of in en ly in he ce , nd en er up se ) .
ng al es .
ny ta - ve es ow ke se of ne ng ds to id in he ic ry ss .
ne ng is ng ed to rn ls of ne on in he ll om gh - ut ta , to er al al ts
om ve ta ed by he an ky ey , nd to ze he ex ns of in on at te nt ve es of le in ri rs .
ne ng ds re ng he ce of ny ta - ve al es , nd ny of se es ow ld ps on ne ng as rt of ir ds es .
23 ce of ne ng in er ce
en is le of ns , at an we er in al ut he re le of ne ng in he ld of er ns ? ne ay to nk ut is is to ne he ce of ll re ns , nd to ze he ve ns st a he in is ce re ne ng as a al le to ay .
in ar , ne ng ds re dy he st ds le or ng ar es of re , in ns re :
he on is oo ex or le to ly gn he hm .
or le , re or or - se on ks , ch as ch on nd er on , ll to is ry .
ll of us an ly el ch hs in a re of ur er , ut ne of us an te wn an hm to rm is sk .
re ne ng is he re nt od of ce ly se it is ly sy to ct ed ng ta , nd ly ve to ry ng wn a ul hm .
he on es at he re ze to ts al nt er it is ed .
ne le of is is ch on ms at ze to he er ho es he re .
ne ng re es he sm or on .
re ns at ze to rs re ng ly - e . g . , es at ze to ur ng er - es , or il rs at ze to ur ar on of am .
is ne ng he in he re ld is ng ly .
ed is ay , ne ng ds ay a ey le in he ld of er ce , in an nt nd ng he .
le re ll in re ns re ne ng ay er be ul ( e . g . , to te ix on ms ) , he he re it ll be ed is ng ly as ns ow in ty , as he nd ws or lf - ng re , as rs in ss to re ta , nd as we op ly ve ne ng ms .
nd ts us le as a od or re nt , ne ng is so ly to lp pe ur ew of er ce re ly .
by ng he on om ow to am rs to ow to ow em to am es , ne ng es he gn of lf - ng ms at lf - se nd lf - ir , nd on es at el ir rs , nd he ke ge of he dy am of ta ng gh he am er an ly ng it .
ly , ne ng ll lp pe he ld of cs , by ng a al ve to he re , nd ng es ch as er - ng ng .
of se th er ce nd cs ll so lp pe ne ng as ey ss nd de ew as to ge he ay we ew
23 me nt ch ns
as he ve ns st , al ss as dy en de in he nt of ma - ne ng ms nd ir ng ry .
or le , we ow ve a ty of ms or ed ng of on nd on s; at is , or ng me ly wn
on f : x y en a et of ed ng es ( ( id : 23 ) xi , yi ( id : 23 ) ) of ts xi nd ts yi = f ( xi ) .
or le , in ng an ge on am xi ay be a le ge , nd yi he el of he ct in he ge .
ms om rt or es , to an rs , to ic go - ms ay be ed to te he on f om he ta .
we so ve a ul dy of ry at ps ze ow ly ne ld ct to rn he on f , ng on he er of ed ng es le , ns ut he re of he ta ( e . g . , er he es re wn ly ) , nd es of he ng hm ch as he ty of he et of es it rs .
of se re re ny er es of ng ms nd ed ms nd eo - es , ng ed ng ( e . g . , er es ed on ir me es on ns ) , ly on ( e . g . , nd al ns of cy om ns ) , nt ng ( e . g . , rn to ck od ss es , re he ly ng ta is he al in / se me of he me er ng ny es ) , ta ng ( e . g . , nd a ll et of rs at an be ed to ct a ce of gh - al in es ) , tc .
he ld is ng rd in ny ns , ng a ty of es of ng ks , nd
ng a ty of ng ry .
re is a le of nt ch ns :
an ed ta be ul or ed ng ? ed ng es ng me on f : x y en a et of ed ng es ( ( id : 23 ) xi , yi ( id : 23 ) ) .
we ld ly ce he st of ed ng if we ld ke se of ed ta as ll ( e . g . , es at re ed ) .
re re ns re ed ta an be ed to ve he ed ng cy ? ng , he er is es , or al al es of ng ms at fy al ns .
se de al ms ch as ng to fy eb es or am .
on of ew ms nd ew es of ms re ed ta is ly ul is an ve ea of nt ch .
ow an we er at is ed or ne sk to ve ng in er ed ks ? .
te he ve on of ed ng es ng a le on f .
in ny al ms we ht ke to rn a ly of ed ns ( e . g . , a is on or ts in ew rk ls , nd ne or ts in yo ls ) .
gh we ct he is on to be at nt in he wo es , we so ct me es .
ds ch as al an es de ne ay to le is em , by ng he ng rs of he ny on nd he yo on re ar or es , ut ng he ta om ch al to de se rs as te .
he on es re le en he er en ns is re ex e . g . . , a ot ng th a xt - te on nd a on to se ol ns ld be le to rn er by ng ge of he al ip en se wo es of ed on .
at is he ip en nt ng ms , nd ch ld be ed en ? .
ny nt ng ms ve en ed nd ed ly in nt ap - on ns .
ne me of ch is to op a al ng of he ps ng se ms , nd of en it is te to se ch .
or le , wo ms or ed ng , ic on nd he ve es er , ve ly on ny ta ts , ut an be ed to be nt en ed to in es of ta ts ( i . e . , en he ng ns of ve es re ed , nd as he er of ng es ap - es ty ) .
is ng ts , or le , at ve es ld be ed if ta is se ut ne is nt of he ng ns .
re ly , he al
on of ng ms , ir ce es , nd ir ve hs nd es ns a or ch ic .
or rs at ly ct ir wn ng ta , at is he st gy ? ne a le ot ed th he sk of ng to nd ts rs rs re in he se , nd ne at it is ed to ce ng he ay , by ng he rs om nt ts of ts ce , nd ng he rs to nt ns th nt ng ns .
at is he st nt ng gy or ly ng ew ta as ts ng ds ? a nd le of is em es ug ng re ne es to rn he ug ss le ng he re of ts to le wn de ts .
is is a rt of a re ad ch st to ng ms at ke re ve ol er he ng ng , er an ly ng ta ed by rs .
to at ee an we ve th ta cy nd he ts of ta ng ? re re ny ne - al es of ne ng , ch as ng a al is em on ta om ll ls in he ld , ch re ot ng ed ly se of cy ns .
gh at st it ht em at we st se en cy nd he ts of ta ng , in ct we ht be le to ve th in me es .
or le , er an ng ls to ce cy nd ss nd ir nt ds to a al ta ry , we ht ad ss nd a ng hm to he ls , ng ch to un it er in ns , en ss it ng to he xt al .
is is an ve ch ea , ng th on st al rk on ta re nd on re nt ic es .
23 . 23 er rm ch ns
he ve ch ns re dy ng ly ed by rs in he ld .
it is so ng to er er rm ch ns .
ow re me al ch cs ch i el ld he al to ly ge he ce of ne ng er he ng de .
an we ld er - ng rs ? he st ty of ne ng rk to te es un - ng ms on ar ta ts , en ng he er de nd ng he lt .
in st , ng in ns nd er ls is an ng ss in ch he nt ns ny nt es , en in a ed um , nd es se nt ed ts nd es in a ly ic on .
hy ot ld ne rs at rn in is me ve ay , ng ly nt er an ng at me au ? or le , a ot in he me ce ng or hs or rs ld rn a ty of es , ng th er ks ( e . g . , ow to ze ts in at rk nd of he ay ) , to re ex ms at ld on us ng ( e . g . , re to ok st to nd he ng ng er ) .
ly , a am to rn to ad he eb ht rn a ed et of es ng th er il - es ch as ng to ze es of le nd es , nd ng to ng ex al on ad ss le es nd eb es .
a ey ch ue re is lf - ed ng nd ng an te ed um .
an ne ng es nd ms lp in an ng ? ly , es nd ms om ne ng ve en nd nt to ng ts of an nd al ng .
or le , nt ng ms nd es ct ly
ll he al ty of ic ns in ls ng rd - ed ng .
nd ma - ne ng ms or ng se ns of ly ng es ct ly ll he es of al es nd in he ly al ex of ls .
er , he - es of al ng ve ns at ve ot et en ed in ne ng , ch as he le of on , ar , cy , ng , nd ng er le me es .
re is a ch ty or ss on re , an ty to op a al ry of ng es ng ls as ll as es , nd al ns or ed es or ng ts .
an we gn ng es ng ne ng es ? an a ew en - on of er ng es ly rt ng ms at rn ? in ny nt ne ng ns , rd ne ng ms re ed th nd - ed re to a al on am .
hy ot gn a ew er ng an - ge at ts ng ms in ch me es re nd - ed le rs re ed as to be ed .
ch a ng ge ld ow he er to re he ts nd ts of ch to be ed ne , en ct a ng hm om he es ed by he ng ge .
ng ew ch es se re , ch as ng ng ge ts or ng at ng ce ld be en to ch to be ed ne , en , nd th at ds st ry es to am
ll er on ge th ne ng ? en he ng se of ne rn - ng or te - of - he - rt er on , er ch on , nd er ms of er on , an we op a al ry of on ed in ng es ? ne in - ng ty re he on of le ry es ( e . g . , on , nd , ch ) to de a ng in ch lf - ed ng ld be ed to ct ne ry ri - ce om he rs .
dy rs in al gy nd on ve ed at ng an be re ve en le re ed le ut es , nd rk on co - ng ds om ne ng ts he me .
23 al ns
ve re me of he ms at ll pe he ld of ne ng er he ng de .
le it is le to ct he re , er ch in ne ng ll st ly ce re ul er es .
is , in rn , ll ad on on to al ns ut re nd en to ly he ng gy .
or le , er at ys gy ld le ng ed de ts of ew gs , if it re ed to ta ng ll or ts nd al ds in he ry ng th ll es of gs .
nt es in ch ew gs re ed ng a er of ed nt hs ht ll ve en ed by dy le ne ng ds .
er , ng is ne ng gy ld so ve ed ur al cy , as ur al ds nd ug es ld ve ad to be ed nd ed .
is is ng we sh as a ty to do ? ly , i ve re re od ts on th es , nd at as a ty we ed to ss nd te se ns in an en nd ed on , en me to a on .
ed ns ur ut ng ta or ty nd aw nt , or or ng es .
ke ll ul es , ne ng ll se ts re of ns ut er it ld be ed or ar es .
gh he er to ch of
se ns ll ve a al nt , in me es he on ll so ve a al cy nt ng ll of us to me ed in ng ts er .
23 re to rn re
to nd ut re ut ne ng , ee he op es nd ls in he ld , ng :
al ce on ne ng ( ml ) .
ce on al on ng ms ( ps ) .
al ce on ng ry ( lt ) .
al of ne ng ch ( lr ) .
is op al is ly le ne at ww . lr . rg .
ne ng .
ed by er .
ny of he as ed re ve en om ns th rs .
i ld ke to ge ny ng ns th ts nd ty of he ne ng nt at ie on ty , or ng to pe my wn ew of he ne of ne ng .
i ld so ke to ly nk im um , en rg , os in , el an , nd ew ng or ul ts on er ts of is nt .
it ld be le to do ur rk ut he us rt of rs .
i am ly ul
or ch rt om pa , sf , ih , he ck on , nd ed in on .
