ost ing hms hat are ied to ext cat - ion ems ely on a bag - of - rds ent ion , i . e . , ach ord ing in the ocu - ent is red as a ate ure .
in his per , we ate the use of tic ses as put fea - res for ext ion ems .
ese res are sed on ion ion rns hat are ted and sed by the log - ts ent tal lts on ing uch res as und dge for two ine ing lgo - hms on a ion ask on the www .
the re - lts how hat sal res can ove the pre - ion of ned ies at the nse of age .
ost ine ing hms for ext iza - ion ent nts as a bag of rds .
lly , ach ord is ted as a ate ure .
for xam - ple , a tml - ent ght be ied as the ome age of a ent if the ord ent urs on the age .
ver , ent ill lso cur on any her ges on the www , ing ost ges of ter sci - nce nts .
on the her and , a nce ike " i am a ent of ter nce at gie mel - lon ity " is rly ive of a nts ome age .
it is rth ing hat one of the rds hat ap - ear in his nce are ood ors of a ent ome age , nor is any set of ese rds , use all of hem are ite mon on ges ted ons ool of ter nce .
123 hat kes a nce is the tic ole hat ese rds ave in
ved for ion ion ( off 23a ) , is ble to ide a ner ith res hat ure ome of the tic ruc - ure of ral age ext .
for the ove put sen - nce , it cts the ing our res : i am <_> ,
123 in his nce , the ost ive rds for a ent ome age are i and am .
hey are ite ble res for the lem of ing een ent ges and her tal ges and , for his ask , uld not be ved by a top ist ( see lso ( ven et al .
23a ) ) .
<_> is ent , ent of <_> , and ent at <_> . 123 all our of hem are hly ive of ent ges and at ast ree of hem are ite ely to ear on her pes of ges .
ote hat the ast of ese , ent at <_> , oes not tch a ous ece of ext , but is sed on nal ent to the ord ent .
in ous ork ( e . g . ,
( off & zen 123 ) ) , ing lts on the ess of uch ses for sks ere ned ing ple ing ods to ind the est ssi - rms .
in his per , we ort on ome per - the ity of uch nts hat med at ing ses as res ing hms , ely the ive yes ier bow and the ate - and - uer thm i ~ per .
the ase udy is med in a
for two ate - of - the - art
ask on the www .
ing sal res
log was ped as a hod for ati - lly ing ain - fic ion rns pus .
as put , au - rom an ted log res a set of oun ses , ion hat uld be ted rom the ing hen ses tic ics to ate tic rns hat can act the red ion rom the ing nts ( and rom un - een nts ) .
the ted rns ent ect - erb or erb - ect - ect ( e . g . , ct> hes or hes ect - ct> ) as ell as nal ase nts ( e . g . , at oun - se> or her at oun - se> ) .
see ( off 23b ) for a ore led ion of au -
the key nce
een log and the val of the
eed for an ted for all oun ply tes ion ses in the ing pus ose tic hes one of the ics .
ble 123 ows ree of the 123 tic ics yed in the ent
3we use gle ets <> to ent
sub j> aux - erb oun oun rep oun - se>
i am <_> <_> is ent ent of <_> ent at <_>
ble h tic ics hat are sed for ing sal res in the nce " i am a ent of com - ter nce at gie lon ity . "
of rds ing in nts of hat
ass ent of eir ext .
by ing so , ain - bow kes the ive nce ion .
ore the ity of ent d ing to ass c is ted by ing the ior ity pr ( c ) of ass c ith the uct of the ies pr ( iic ) hat the ord wi urs in nts of his ass .
his uct is hen zed by the uct of the ior ies pr ( wi ) of all rds .
hat can be ted
ion of log - ts as ell as eir ond - ing ion rns ple nce " i am a ent of ter nce at gie lon ity " .
ote hat the ird ice in the ame tic tic of ble 123 res nce ing two ent nal nts rms of the to the oun ent .
lso , the ent erb to be are not ned for the rst ver , in ral rds hat cur in ent rms ill not be ted in the ame way .
for ple , the nce " ere are the nts at our ent " ill not tch the ast ion ern of ble 123 , use the ord ent urs in ral hat the ral ion stu - nts at <_> urs ore tly on tal ges han on ent ome ges .
hat uch all ces in the use of rds can ake a big nce for ext ion was sly ved in ( off 123 ) .
a set of nts ted nce or nce of tic ses of the ove orm can be lly sed for ing ant nts of the ist ain of the 3th age ing nce ( muc - 123 ) ( off & zen 123 ) .
it ems ely
in his per , we ore the ial use of the ted by log - ts as sal res for ate - of - the - art in the ing , we ill fly ibe the ing al - hms and the est ain ( ing www ges ted to ter nce nts ) , and hen dis - uss the lts of our nts .
res ith two
the use of sal
the ive yes ssi - ier bow and the ule ing thm rip - per .
the ata set sed for our nts is the 123 - ies set , ich has een ted for the bkb ect at gie lon ity .
lum at 123
it tes a ent is a ber of a ain ass ing the
is a ive yes ier sks ( ell 123 ) , ped by rew
for ext ssi -
rom ttp : / / www .
edu / af s / cs /
pr ( cld ) : = pr ( c )
as any of the ies
pr ( wi ( c ) are ypi -
lly 123 ( nce eir uct ill be 123 ) , bow hes the tes ing the que sed by ten & ell ( 123 ) .
a ted lem - - act hat for ext ion sks any tes of pr ( c ( d ) for the ing ass end to be ose to 123 and ten ill be tly 123 use of ing - int und - off ors - - is sed by ing an ion to ate a ion erm sed on ack - ler nce .
his ion oes not nge of the nts , but des ore tic ity tes .
his ion was sed in our nts to ain ter nce tes for the ons , ich we sed for ing re - phs .
a ore led ion of his ing que and of bow can be und in ( ven et al .
23a ) .
( lan 123 ) ) til
123 ( hen 123 ) is an ent , ise - ant ule ing thm sed on the tal ced ror ing thm ( anz ~ mer 23; anz 123 ) .
it rns gle les by ily ing one ion at a ime ( ing ils rma - ion ain tic ger kes ect ons on the ing set , a mly sen set of the ing set .
ere - the ned ule is ied by ing ndi - ons as ong as the nce of the ule oes not ase on the ing set of les ( the ing set ) .
all les red by the ing ule are hen ved rom the ing set and a new ule is ned in the ame way til all les are red by at ast one ule .
hus , per is a ber of the fam - ily of ate - and - uer ( or ing ) ule ing hms ( anz 123 ) .
hat kes per rly ell - ted for ext ion ems is its ity to use set - ued res ( hen 123 ) .
for nal ine arn - ing hms , a ent is lly ted as a set of ary res , ach ing the nce or nce of a lar ord in hat ent .
his lts in a ery ent ing of the ing ex - les use uch ace is ted for ing the
ect / heo - 123 i / www / ive - yes
ble 123 : ass ion
in the 123 ies ata
nce of rds in a ent .
per ows to rep - ent a ent as a gle set - ued ure ply sts all the rds ing in the ext .
con - lly , ers use of uch a set - ued ure is han the use of ary res in ven - ing hms , ugh per kes use of ome ons .
for the der of his per , we ill nue to ink of ach ord ( or ase ) as ate ary ure .
the bkb ect the oal of the bkb ect ( ven et al .
23b ) is to act a ter - ble dge ase rom the www ose nts ors the nts of uld be ned for the www .
any ons uch a dge ase .
for ple , it uld nce the ies of tly ble rch nes hat can nly wer ord - nce ies ( e . g . , al - sta ) or hat ely on a lly ted owl - dge ase out the nts of www ges ( e . g . , ya - hoo ) by ing hem to wer ons rse x at ity y ? " or " how any nts are in ent z ? " .
tly , a oto - ype tem ses an ogy of mon ies ter nce nts ( nts , ses , cts , nts ) and ons een hem ( e . g . , sor x is the tor of rse and the sor of ent z ) .
the ype wls the net and ses ned dge to ify ges of ter nce nts nto hat ogy .
in der to ish the ler ith ome ned do - ain dge , a set of 123 , 123 ing nts was rom the www ges of ous ter nce nts .
123 out alf of the ges are a rly ive set of ges rom the ter nce nts of our ies : ell , xas , wis - sin , and ton .
the ing 123 , 123 ges are ore or ess mly ted ges rom ous ter nce nts .
the ges are anu - lly ied nto the ies ent , lty , aff , rse , ect , ent , and her .
ble 123 ows the ncy ons of ese ses in the ata
: / / www .
edu / afs / cs ,
the her ass is a ery ous ass hat ins ges und at ese nts hat are not ied as any of the six ant ses .
ote , how - hat one of the ons ade in lly ing the ges was hat ach eal - rld ity is ted by nly one age .
hus , if , e . g . , a fac - lty ber zes his nal ome age as a ext ent ing ate ges for his rch sts , his ons , his cv , and int - ers to the rch cts he is ved in , nly the top age hat nks ese ons her uld be sed to ent him in the ass lty , ile all her ges uld be ied as her .
his is rly not a ect ion , as her ple ght ize the ame ion nto a gle age .
hus it can be ted to be ard to ate een cer - ain ges of the her ass and ges of the ant
a ore led ion of his ata set and of ome ous ork can be und in ( ven et al .
for our nts , all ges ere ped of eir tml ags , ted to wer ase , and all its ere ced ith a d .
loc - ts was run on ach doc - ent and the ted ion rns ere en - ded as one - ord ens and put nto a ate ile .
we red ree ent thm : one ere ach ord was ted as a fea - ure , one ere ach ase ( ion ern ) was ted as a ure , and one ere oth ere sid - red as res .
for the ast ase , ing les ere ply ded to uce the put les bow , ile for per we ded ach ocu - ent ith two set - ued res , one ing the rds in the ent , the her ing the ens hat ent the red sal res .
the hms ere ted ing the ame oce - ure as in ( ven et al .
23b ) : ach ent con - sts of our uns , in ich the ges of one of the our ies are eft out in urn .
hus , ach ing set sts of the 123 , 123 ges rom ous ver - ies lus the ges rom ree of the our ies .
the lts of ach of the our uns ere ned us - ing cro - ing , i . e . , the ons ade for the our est ets ere own her and all ion res ere ted on his ned set .
the fre - ncy ion of the ses in his ned est set is own in the ond umn of ble 123
ess ted ise , per was sed ith its ult ons .
it uld be ted hat in his ing , per rts the ses ing to eir rse fre - ncy and rns ion sts for ing one ass nst all ses ked low it .
nce , the is ted as a ult ass and no les are ned for it .
in the ex - nts ith bow , we ade use of its ilt - in ing , and res
hat red nly nce ere
in our ase the her ass ,
ble 123 : all ive acy
not red .
the nts ith per ere med out ing and out any orm of ure set ion .
age ses and are ied
in rms of ive ccu - ble 123 ows the lts acy on the 123 est ets ned .
the lts are ite rse .
for bow , the use of ses ses pre - ive acy , ile for per , the ite is the ase .
an ion of the ion ces ( not own ) ows hat his is tly due to an ase in the ber of ges hat are ied as her .
for ple , out 23% of the ges do not ain any by ult .
his ase in the ber of ges for ich a ent to one of the six ant ses is ade , in ome nse , rms hat the sal fea - res are uch ore ive in eir ons : hey end to ear ess tly , but ome of hem are hly cal for ain ses .
his has a osi - ive ect on the all acy , use bow ing ord - sed res ies nly 123 ges as her , ile the est set ins 123 ges of his ass .
bow ing sal res ies les as her out tly ers ion in the six ant ses .
his ans hat the ity of her ges is ied nto one of the six ant ses , hus ing a low all acy and a low ion , as we ill see in the ext ion .
the 123 ity ses .
bow
is rse for per , ich ssi - ies 123 ges as her ing rds , ile ing 123 ges as her hen ing nly ses .
nce , for per , ose ion acy is ove the ult acy ( 23% ) , ing ore les her has a ive ect on its nce .
in the ber of ges ied ith the ult ass are lso the ain son for the uge nce ces of the two hms .
one son for his non ght be the ure of of the her ass , ich is ely ges hat are ery lar it ght ell be the ase hat his lem ses ter ies pon a ear ier uch as bow , eas the ule ner per is ter ble to cus on the all ces een lar ges in ent ses .
it ght lso be the ase hat in the tal tup ( ing ,
to ges of the ant
to ain any
, % ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
123 - - - - - -
ure 123 : ned ion / all ( tom ) and per ( top ) .
ing of res hat cur nly nce ) ted to his ect , but it not be its ole use , use no ing was sed on the sal res
ore ing , ver , is a ser ook at the pre - phs own in ure 123
in his aph , all ans the age of tly ted ex - les of the six ant ses ( not ing her ) , ile ion ans the age of ect dic - ons in all ons for les of ese ses .
for ing ese phs , we ted a nfi - nce ore ith ach ion .
the nce as - ted ith a ons of bow is ply the
123 i am <_> 123 <_> is ent 123 ent in <_> 123 ity of <_> 123 sor of <_> 123 <_> is sor 123 i am <_>
<_> is ate
123 ger of <_> 123 ted <_> 123 ted <_> 123 ted <_> 123 ent of <_> 123 ate <_> 123 ate <_> 123 <_> due 123 due <_> 123 all <_>
ble 123 : the est ree ses for ach ass and eir ank in a ted ist of res in the ses
ent : - my ,
est acy ( ton ) : 123
ent : - i am <_> ,
<_> is ent , ute of <_> .
est acy ( xas ) :
ent : - my ,
<_> is ent ,
est acy ( xas ) :
ted ity of the ple ing in the pre - ted ass .
per oes not ide ity sti - tes , so we ted ith ach ion of per a nce lue _l_ ere e ( i ) is the ber ing les hat are tly ( tly ) las - ied by the ule hat ted the ass for his xam - ple .
123 we ose the ace - ate for ing the acy of a ule in der to ize les hat ver nly a few les .
we red the ion of the hms at 23% nts in all .
a all vel of 23% is ent to tly ing out 123 of the 123 les of the six ant ses .
the ion at a all vel of n% was red by rst ing the ons for les of the ant ses ing to eir nce ore .
hen we ent own the ist til ber of ect ons ded n% of the tal ber of les of the ant ses , i . e . , til we had led n% of the les of ese ses .
the ber of ect ons ver the tal ber of ons in hat ent of the ist is the ion ore ted ith hat all vel .
if a all of n% was hed hin a ies of ons ith cal nce res , we ued to ess the ist til the nce ore ged .
nce , in ome ses , the nts for the ion / all ves are not tly ned up at 23% nts .
~ ote hat ese are not ily ent to the ber of les hat are tly or tly ssi - ied by the ule in ion , use per rns ion sts .
his ans hat the ned les are sed in der , and nly les hat are not ied by ous les can be ied by ent les .
ble 123 : the les ith est nce res for rds , ses , and rds ely , ith the ber of ect and ect ons hey ake on eir ive ing and est ets .
in oth phs , it is ent hat at wer all
the sal res orm the ord - sed ion .
his rts the sis hat ome sal res are hly ive for ain ses , but in ral ave low age .
his is rly ous in the ant ase of the mum re - all for per if it ses nly sal res .
for the ned ion are ore rse : bow gns her hts to ord - sed res han to sal res , so hat the lts for the ned ion are tly ned by the rds .
ble 123 tes his by ing the top ree ses for ach ass , and eir ank in the ist of res red by a ted log - dds tio
but ven
sed res ine the ape of the rve , the ion of sal res lts in all ove - nts at all all els .
the ion is ite lar for per in the nse hat nly a few of the ned les lly use the sal res .
ver , the ses tly oc - cur in les ith a igh nce ore and ake a ial nce at the low all end of the aph .
ble 123 ows , for ach of the ree ons , the ule hat was ned the est nce ore sed on its nce on the ive
it is ery ing to rve hat the est ule for the ord - sed ure set and the est ule for the ses ion are ost cal .
oth ire the nce of the ord my and a ven - git ber ( ost ely a one ber ) .
ver , res the res - ile the ord - sed ion nce of the rds am and ent , res the nce of the ase <_> is ent .
all hat all nts ing nce " i am a ent . " tch oth ons , be - use the ase hes all rms of the ary erb to be .
ing at the ies of ese two les ows hat the rst one hes 123 les in the ire ata set , 123 of ich ing non - ent ges , ile the ond ule hes nly 123 les , but all of hem are of the ass ent .
ams vs .
ses
" ph+ w ( bow )
the ule hat was med ing nly the sal fea - res can be ely ted as ing all doc - nts hat ain the nce " i am a ent at of <_> . " as ent ome ges .
ile his ule is ble and ate , it has a uch wer age han oth her les .
it is lso ing to ote hat the ird ule con -
the ant ion
the ant ion ent .
tly , ers ion ain tic rst red his ion ver the ore ate ase hat ins the ord , use the ord ure had her ver - age .
ter it red hat the ase has to be ded is not ved use ers ing thm nly ers the val of a nal nce of ons rom a ule / it uld be ked hat it is no nce hat all ree les are ing the ass ent .
in act , ost of the nts at the low all end of the ves is due to ive nts in the pre - ion of the ent ass .
ion / all for his ass ook ery lar to the phs own in ure 123 , ile for the her ive ant ses no dra - tic nts uld be ved .
we ave een in ble 123 hat bow tes a hat wer im - nce to sal res in the her 123 ses , and an ion of the ned les ows hat nly a few of the top - ked les for ses her han stu - ent lly use sal res .
his may be tly due to the act hat ere are too few ing les for ome of ese ses .
we lan to her ate his on a ore ced ata set , ike the 123 ups ata sed in ( ang 123 ) .
two her ing
ure 123 are the ces
to ake in fig - in mum all een
is one of
een per and
nal tal ced ror ing thm , ich - - ess tly - - ers all ons as tes for ing ( anz & mer 123 ) .
awe ave lso ted her the ent ass ins a her age of ral age ext , but we uld not lly irm his sis ( ing the ude ure ber of ses per ass ver ber of rds per ass ) .
ure 123 : ion / all and per ( tom ) ing rds sus bi -
ves for bow
bow and per , and the ent ion at the low all end for bow .
the for - mer is due to act hat bow ess ges as her , hus ing the age of led ges in the ant ses at the nse of ion .
we ure hat the ter non is sed by vio - ons of the nce ion of ive yes , ich ads to rly tic nce res for for ple , if the ase <_> is ent urs in a ent , it is ite ely hat at ast one of the ses ent at / in / of <_> ill oc - cur in the ame nce , ich ill uly ost the hat his ent is a ent ome age .
ile the lts of the ast ion ave own hat sal res can ove the ion of ext las - at the nse of all , one can ask her lar lts uld ave een ned by ing se - ces of rds ead of gle rds as res .
to his end , we ave ted ome of the ove ex - nts ing a ion hat ers gle rds and irs of rds ( ams ) as res .
the ame non for bow , we ved the ape of the re - as ith the use of ses : rve is ned by the ord - sed res , but the ion is tly her .
the two ves at the tom of ure 123 are the all / ion ves for rds sus rds for bow .
ere are no ble ces all eak for the ase ion at a all vel of 23% .
a son of the est ram res ( ta - ble 123 ) to the est ase res ( ble 123 ) ows hat the age ank of the top ree res ong the
123 ome age 123 put enc 123 art of 123 put enc 123 the art 123 put enc 123 of put 123 niv of 123 shi kin 123 ice edu 123 in nes 123 rch oup 123 dio tex 123 tex ipt 123 ill be 123 fic our 123 the urs
ble 123 : the est ree ams for ach ass and eir ank in a ted ist of res
in the rds
ent : - my ,
est acy ( ton ) : 123 123
ble 123 : a hly ked ule ing ams ith the ber of ect and ect ons it kes on ing and est les .
ear to be ess ble ( cf . , e . g . , ses aff and ect ) .
is her for ams , ile hey the res for
for per , ver , the ion
the per two ves of ure 123 , the ase nta - ion rms the ram ion at the low all end .
ing at the les hat ply ere , we ind hat , ike the les of ble 123 , for the ams the ule ith the est nce is not one of the 123 top - ked les of the ent ass in the ive lds of the 123 - old oss - ion .
the ule own in ble 123 is ost lar to the les own in ble 123
it is ked ber 123 by our nce ure .
rds ses ams 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123
ble 123 : ber of res red by bow
res it ses is uch ler han the ber res per ers .
it can be een hat , ugh ere are tly ore ent ses han rds , eir ers are in out the ame der of ude , ile the ber of ams und in the nts is one der of ude ger .
our nts ave own hat the use of tic res can ove the ion of ext ion at the low all end .
for the ule ing thm p ~ per , ing uch res was ble to ost the pre - ion by out 23% to ore han 23% hen ing out 23% of the 123 est les of a ext ego - ask on the www .
ugh sal res ire ore ing ort ( e . g . , the tax of oth the ing and the est nts has to be sed ) , hey gly ide a ter cus for ule arn - ing hms .
his ect was ess ble for the ive yes ier
hat we sed .
ess , it uld be ted hat we ere not ble to ove the ion of the ers at igh all the son ing hat the sal res ypi - lly ave a ery row cus .
ver , it uld lso be ted hat the est ain sed in our ase udy may not ave een an eal ice for ing ity of sal res , use ant rts of www ges do not ain ral hus , we lan to her ate nly sed ext ion as the 123 ups set ers ire ion
( ang 123 ) and the ( hen & ger 123 ) .
on the her and , we are lso ing on her ing the ion acy on the 123 rsi - ies ata set sed in his ase udy .
for ple , all hes sed in his udy med ery rly on the ect ass ( ion was lly low 23% ) .
the son for his is ost ely the ous na - ure of ics hat are alt ith on ect ges .
we eve hat his lem can be ved by ing at the ion hat is ned on or ear the nks hat int to uch ges and lan to ate to ose yed in her ing ues lar
it is rth to ake a ook at the ber of ent res hat are red by the ing al - hms ( ble 123 ) .
all hat we sed bow ith ing on rds and ams , as ell as ing of all res hat cur nly nce , so the ber of fea -
for ple , one of the ost tic rds for the ses lty and aff is the ord " fax " , ich is ore ely to cur in ses han in the ral lan - age ion of a web - age .
is ted by a ger - ( 123 - inf ) of the ian nds zur ort by the rpa
ung der hen pkb ram der act len off ges ort rom nsf nts iri - 123 and iri - 123
we ish to ank ark ach for ing
the log - ts ata .
