ost nal els of sed ing ely nly on led ing les , and ore the ble ole of led ata .
his is rue oth for ive nce els of ing uch as oar ell and act - r son , et al .
, and for ine ing and ata ing hms uch as ion ree ing and ive gic ing see , e . g . , ell .
in his per we der the ial ole of led ata in sed ing .
we ent an thm and tal lts ing hat led ata can tly ove ing acy in ain cal ems .
we hen ify the act lem ure hat les the thm to lly ize his led ata , and ove hat led ata ill ost ing acy for ems in his ass .
the lem ass we ify des ems ere the res ing the les are tly ent for ing the le; a ion we ake ise in the per .
his lem ass des any ral ing ems ced by ans , uch as ing a tic con ver oun ses in ral age , and ing to ize cts rom ple sor uts .
we gue hat els of man and mal ing uld der ore gly the ial ole of led ata , and hat any ral ing ems t the ass we ify .
a sed ing lem : ing to ify web ges
to ate the ole of led ata in sed ing , der the lem of ing to ify ges of ext rom the rld ide web , ven led ing ata ing of ual web ges ong ith eir ect ons ure .
we ave een ing his lem as art of our ger rch oal of lly ing ion rom the web ven et al .
sor ohn ith
hi ! i ach ter ses and ise nts , ing
in my are ime i ork on a ber of rch cts , ing ine ing for web
ive ing for bot rol
ure : ing ple of a lty ome age . " the ask of ing a web age can be ved by ing ust the rds on the web age .
ely , the age can be ied ing nly the rds on nks hat int to the web age e . g . , my sor " sor ith " .
hen les are bed by uch tly ent res , led ata can be sed to ost the acy for sed ing .
for ple , one cic ask we ave red is ing a tem to ify web ges nto ies uch as ent ome age , " lty ome age , " ome age of an mic rse , "
his web age ion lem can be ted as a cal sed ing lem .
by sed ing lem " we ean hat ere is ome set x of ces , and ere is ome get ion f : x ! y to be ned , ven a set of ing les of the orm xi; f iig .
in our ase , x is the set of all web ges , y is the set of ble ons e . g . , ent " lty " her " , and the ion f to be ned in the ion hat aps an ary age x to its ect ion .
for the ith led ing ple , xi is a lar web age , and f xi is the ect ion for xi , ded by an nal her .
as sed in ven et al .
, a ber of sed ing hms can be ied to the lem of ing to ify web ges .
one mon ach is to rst ent ach web age by a rge ure tor , ere ach ble ord in the age nds to a ure , and the lue of the ure is the ber of mes the ord urs in the web age .
his bag of rds " ion sly res ion out the nce in ich rds cur .
ver , his ion of web ges as rge ure ors les us to ply ard sed ing hms for ion of ure ors .
for ple , if we ain a ive yes ier ell on a set of ely , led web ges , we eve ies of ely in ing new web ges nto the ies ned ove ven et al . , .
set l of led ing les
set u of led les
arn ink - sed ier h rom l
arn ull - ext ier f rom l
low h to bel p ive and n ive les rom u
low f to bel p ive and n ive les rom u
add ese elf - led les to l
ble : a ing thm , for ing two ers and ing led ata to ost eir
ile we can eve ble acy ter ing on nds of and led web ges , in his per we are ted in the ion of how led ata can be ful .
in act , his is a ial ion in our web age ion ask , use it is tly to and bel nds of web ges , and use it is ery asy to ain eds of ons of led ges rom the web .
how can we use led web ges to ore ely arn to ify ure ges ? the wer can be een by rst ing hat the web ins an ing ind of ant ion out ach web age , as own in ure .
as own in his ure , we uld ify the web age her by ing the rds on the age elf as ted in the aph ove , or we uld ify the age by ing the rds on the age and ead ing the rds on nks hat int to the age .
in any ses , the rds on the nks ill be ent to ify the ple , and the rds on the age elf ill lso be ent .
in uch ses , we ill say ese two ets of res the ink rds , and the web age rds are tly ent to ify the ple .
we ill see low hat in ral if the ces x for ome sed ing ask can be red nto ets of tly ent res , hen led ata can be sed to ost the acy of ers ned ith ted led ata .
ing ith tly ent res
how can we use led ata to ost the ing acy for our web ion lem ?
age - sed ier ink - sed ier ned ier
ble : ror ate in ent for ing web ges as rse ome ges .
the top row ows ors hen ing on nly the led les .
tom row ows ors hen co - ing , ing oth led and led les .
the ost umn ows the ion acy hen the two ers are ded ual tes on the nal ion .
the lts ted ere are the age of ve ent uns of the thm ith ent dom ing les .
the key dea is hat we ill ain two ent ers her han one .
one ier ill use nly the rds on the web age , and the her ier ill use nly the rds on the nks .
we gin by ing oth ers ing ver led ing les are ble .
bly his ill ult in two ers hat are ect , but ter han dom .
now we use the led ata as ows : ach ier is wed to ine the led ata and to ick its ost tly ted ive and ive les , and add ese to the set of led les .
in her rds , ach ier is wed to ent the ool of led les .
oth ers are now ned on his ted set of led les , and the ess is ted as ong as red .
ble zes his co - ing thm .
why uld his co - ing thm ead to ore ate ers ? the ion is hat if the ink ier nds an ily ied " ink in the led ata e . g . , one hat is ite lar to one of the led les on ich it was ned , the web age hat it nts to ill be ded to the led ool of les as ell .
of rse ust use the ink ned to be asy to ify oes not ean the web age ill be ily ied by the her ier .
if not , hen the ink ier has ded ful ing ion to ove the her ier .
rly , the web age ier can add les hat are asy for it to ify , but hat ide ful ion to ove the acy of the ink ier .
in nts , we ave und hat his ing thm oes ove ion acy in one ent lum and ell , , zed hen ing to ify web ges .
in ble , we ned a ier to bel web ges as ome ges of mic ses .
ent we ded ust led les , and ely led ges awn rom ter nce ent web tes .
on ach ion of co - ing , ach ier was wed to add new ive and new ive les to the ool of led les .
ter ons of the ing thm , the acy of the ned ier was , red to hen nly the led ata was sed .
in his ase , the act of ing was to uce the ror by ter han a tor of two .
ven the tal nce hat ing can be ful in at ast one ase , it is ful to ize the ral lem ing in ich his ind of thm can net rom led ata .
ere we ene a lem ing in ich we can ove hat led ata ill be of elp .
to ene the ral lem ing hat res the ial ure of our web ion ple , all hat ier we ned a sed ing lem as one ere we ave ome set of ces x , a get ion f : x ! y , and led les xi; f iig .
in the ing ing , we ume uch a sed ing lem in ich the ces are awn rom x ing to ome xed bly own ity ion d .
we her ume hat x = x x; hat is , the ces in x can be red nto two rts e . g , .
the ink rds and the web age rds .
we ire lso hat x and x ach ain ion ent to ify the ple .
in her rds , we ire hat ere ist ome ion g : x ! y and ome ion g : x ! y uch hat for all x x; gx = gx = f x .
ote the ner is not ted to now f , g or g in nce .
we ply ire hat it be ble to ess f in rms of x and in rms of x i . e . , hat x and x oth be ent to ify x ing to f .
if the ove nts on x and x are sed , hen we ill say hat x and x are tly ent to ify x ith ect to f .
in lum and ell we how hat if f : x ! y is pac ble rom isy led ata , x and x are tly ent to ify x ith ect to f , and if xb and xb are lly ent ven f x , hen f can be pac ned ven a eak ial ier lus nly led ata .
hat his ans is hat if the led ata are ent to ain a ter han dom ial ier , if x and x are ted tly for ach get lue of f , and if f can be ned ely ven an ary ber of led les , hen f can be ned to lar acy ven ust his eak ial ier and an ary ber of led les .
the nce is hat his ves hat led les can ute for led les , der the ons of the rem .
in lum and ell we lso how hat led ata is of ial lue der the ore ral ing in ich x and x are not tly ted .
ere we how hat if the ing ata is ise - ree , hen ess x and x are lly ted e . g . , one lue of x is ays red ith the ame x , the led ata can be of use .
her ing sks ith tly ent res
ven the ess of ing as a hod for ing led ata hen ing to ify web ges , and ven the mal ion of the ass of ems for ich ing can be of use , it is ing to ask hat her ral ing ems low his ach .
ere we ize a ber of sks :
ing to ify oun ses nto tic ses .
in ilo and nes , an ach lar to ing was ied to the lem of ing a tic con ver oun ses in ish .
in his per , one ask was to arn to ify oun ses as ive or ive les of ons e . g . , san ian " is ive , lue " is ive .
in his ase ach ple , x , is a nce uch as we are ted in ely rgh . " the ion of x nto two tly ent ure ets is one as ows : x is the oun ase elf e . g . , rgh " in the ove nce , and x is the tic ext in ich the oun ase ars e . g . , we are ted in ely | " .
ote hat in ost ses it is ble to ine her the oun ase is a ion ven her x or x .
ote lso hat the ues of x and x are ted rly tly i . e . , ith ght see the ame x as ove , but ith a ent x .
ing ith a ist of ust own oun ses , eir tem sed an thm lar to ing to arn ens of nal ons .
ing to ect ord nse .
in sky , , an ach lar to ing was ied to ing to ate ord ses e . g . , to ine her the ord ant " ers to a ing ant or to a cal ant .
ere , ach nce x nds to a ext ing the ord in ion lar to the ilo and nes ple ove .
ver , the ion of x is nto ore han two nts , ith ach ord ing as a ate ent , and his thm ems to not map tly nto ing .
but it is ite lar , and the lem uld be ked ing a ing ach .
ing to ize mes in ech .
in de sa and ard , , an ach to lly sed ing was ied to a lem ith rly tly ent res .
in his ase , the ask is to arn to ify ech mes , sed on oth the dio nal and the deo nal ing the ers ips .
ere ach nce x nds to the ull ata , x nds to the dio nal , and x nds to the deo nal .
ain , we may hly ume hat her of x or x is ent to ine the eme , and ore can ain two ers on ted led ata , and let hem ain ach her ver the led ata .
in act , de sa and ard use no led ata at all , ead ing a ind of ing in ich the dio nal ust ict the deo , and ice rsa .
eir tem was ble to arn ers ing to the ken mes in the ata .
ect ion in dia ata .
der the lem of ing to ize cts in dia ata , uch as the ous eam of dio , deo , and her ory put a son ves .
a ery lar ask is to arn to ify ion nts , sed on the ing eam of deo , dio , and ose ned ext .
in his ter ase , der the lem of ing to pot ion nts in ich ris sin ars .
ere we uld der ach nce x to be a hot ing the dio , deo and ext at a lar ime .
ere x uld be the dio , x the deo , and x the ext .
ote hat in ome ses we ght see asy " ple of deo a ull ace of sin , or an asy dio his ice out und
ise , or an asy ext the ord sin .
hus , we uld ect ing to ide a ful ach to ing led ata to ain ers .
to my dge , his ent has not
ion and ons
we ave bed a ass of sed ing ems for ich led ata can be ven to ove ing acy .
the key ing res of his lem ass are hat the ces x can be red nto two or ore nts x , x : : : , ich are tly ent to ify the ple , and ese nts ary , so hat a lar xi oes not ays co - cur ith the ame xj . .
we ave bed the ing thm hat ses led ata for uch ems , and ave ted tal and cal lts ing hat in ese ems led ata can eed be ful to ove acy for sed ing .
the ion to man and mal ing ars to be a ich rea for ure udy .
ans and her als ave a ich set of ory put , ich des tly ent ata for any sks .
for ple , ell , ion , und can all be ful in ing to ify her ood is rby , and in any ses the ata rom ust one of ese els is ent .
de sa and rds ess ith a ing - ike thm for ing to ify mes rom deo and dio lar to hat ved by ans is lso ive .
aps ple ely ess han we ect on led ata to eve ful ing for ous ion sks .
nks to my tor on his ork , rim lum , for any ing ons and eas .
ian run , sie nes , rew lum , and mal gam ave lso ted eas and ons ong the way .
his ork has een ted by rpa der rch act
