how can ial ral ets ize ter rom wer les ? in der to ize lly , ral ork ing ods lly ire rge ing ata ets .
we uce a ral ork ing hod hat zes lly rom any wer ata nts , ing ead on ior dge ded in sly ned ral rks .
for ple , in bot rol ing sks ted ere , sly ned rks hat del the cts of bot ons are sed to ide ent ing of bot rol ons .
for ach ved ing ple of the get ion ( e . g .
the bot rol icy ) , the ner ins the ved ple in rms of its ior dge , hen zes his ion to fer nal ion out the ape , or ope , of the get ion .
his ape dge is sed to ias ion hen ing the get ion .
lts are ted ing his ach to a ted bot ask sed on ent ing .
ral ork ing ods ize rom ved ing ata to new ses sed on an ive ias hat is lar to hly ing een ved ing nts .
cal lts ( ant , 123 ) , ( aum and ler , 123 ) on ity , as ell as cal nce , how hat uch ely ive ods ire tly ger ing ata ets to arn ons of ing ity .
his per ces ion - sed ral ork ing ( bnn ) , a hod hat zes lly rom wer ing les , ing ead on ior dge ded in sly ned ral rks .
bnn is a ral ork gue to lic ion - sed ing ods ( ebl ) ( ong and ney , 123 ) , ( ell et al . , 123 lic ebl ods ize sed pon pre - ied ain dge ted by ons of lic les .
ell and run
for ple .
in the ask of ing ral les for bot rol ebl can use ior now dge out the cts of bot ons to lly ize rom fic ing les of ful rol ons .
his is ved by a .
ing a nce of tes and ons ing to ome oal .
ing ( i . e .
ost - cto ing ) the ome of his nce ing the ain ory .
hen c .
ing his ion in der to ine ich res of the ial ate are ant to ing the oal of the nce .
and ich are nol in ous hes to ebl .
the ial ain dge has een ted lly .
lly by nal les or hom ses .
and has lly een med to be ete and ect
123 bnn : ing ive and cal ing
bnn nds ion - sed ing to ver ons in ich ior dge ( lso led the ain ory ) is ate and is ned rom tch .
in bnn , his ain ory is ted by eal - ued ral rks .
by ing ral ork ons .
it mes ble to arn the ain ory ing ing hms uch as the ion thm ( art et al . , 123 in the bot ins sed in his per .
uch ain ory rks ond to ion els .
i . e . , rks hat del the ect of ons on the ate of the rld m : s x a - + sf ( ere a tes an ion , s a ate .
and sf the sor ate ) .
his ain ory is sed by bnn to ias the ing of the ' bot rol ion .
use the ion els may be nly ely ect .
we ire hat bnn be ust ith ect to ere ors in the ain ory .
the der of his ion bes the bnn ing thm .
ume hat the bot ent ' s ion ace is ete .
and hat its ain dge is ted by a ion of pre - ned ion els mi : s - + sf .
one for ach ete ion i .
the ing ask of the bot is to arn a icy for ion ion hat zes the ard , ted by r .
ich nes the ask .
ore lly .
the ent has to arn an ion ion q ( s , a ) .
ich res the ure ted ard hen ion a is ted at ate s .
nce ned .
the ion q ( s , a ) ows the ent to ect ons hat ize the ard r ( edy icy ) .
nce ing rol ces to ing the ion ion q .
123 how can the ent use its sly ned ion els to cus its ing of q ? to ate .
der the ode own in ure 123
the bnn ing thm for ing the get ion q sts of two nts , an ive ing ent and an cal ing ent .
123 the ive ent of bnn the ved ode is sed by the ent to uct ing les , ted by q , for the ion ion q :
q uld for ple be zed by a hic ral ork , or by a ion of net ( cid : 123 ) rks ned ith the ion ing ure .
as ved ing des are ted , q ill ome gly ate .
uch ure ive ing typ -
his ach to ing a icy is ted rom ent rch on uml ing
( rto et al . , 123 ) .
ion - sed ral ork ing for bot rol
_ - - - - - ~ ard : r
ure 123 : ode : ing ith the ial ate si .
the ion nce ai , az , 123 was ved to uce the nal ard r .
the ain dge ted by ral ork ion els is sed to ost - cto ict and yze ach tep of the ved ode .
lly res rge nts of ing ata ( ich ill be tly in the ase of bot
123 the cal ent or bnn
in bnn , the ent its its ain dge to act nal ape dge out the get ion q .
to eed nce and uce the ber of ing les red .
his ape dge .
ted by the ted ope of the get ion q .
is hen sed to ide the ion ess .
ore lly .
bnn nes the ove ive ing ent ith an cal ing ent hat rms the ing ree eps for ach ved ing ode :
ain : ost - cto ict the ved ode ( tes and nal ard ) , ing the ion els mi ( c . f .
ote hat exe may be a ion een ted and ved tes .
nce the ain dge is nly ely ect .
yze : yze the ion to ate the ope of the get ion for ach ved ate - ion air ( 123 : , 123 : ) ( k = 123 . 123 ) .
act the ive of the nal ard r ith ect to the res of the tes 123 : .
ing to the ion els mi .
for nce .
der the ion of the ode own in fig .
the ain ory rks mi ent ble ons .
ore it is ble to act the ive of the nal ard r ith ect to the ing ate 123
ted by " v ' 23r .
ing the ain ule of ion .
the ves of the nal ard r ith ect to all tes 123 : can be ted .
ese ves " v , , , r ibe the nce of the nal ard pon res of the ous tes .
hey ide the get pes .
ted by " v , , , q .
for the get ion q :
" v ' 123 q 123 , 123 )
" v ' 123 r
123 , ( 123 ) 123 ( 123 )
123 ( 123 ) 123 ( 123 ) 123 ( 123 )
arn : ate the ned get ion to ter fit oth the get ues and get pes .
123 tes ing ion ted by oth the ive ( ues ) and the cal ( pes ) nts bnn .
ume hat the " rue " q - ion
ell and run
123 : ing pes : let / bea get ion for ich ies ( xl , i ( xt ) ) .
( 123 , i ( 123 ) ) .
and ( 123 , 123 ( 123 ) ) are own .
sed on ese nts the ner ght ate the sis g .
if the pes are lso own .
the ner can do uch ter : h .
is own in fig .
23a , and hat ree ing ces at xl , 123 and 123 are ven .
hen nly ues are sed for ing , i . e . , as in ard ive ing , the ner ght ude the sis g ted in fig .
if the pes are own as ell , the ner can ter ate the get ion ( fig .
rom his ple it is ear hat the sis in bnn may uce the eed for ing ata , ded hat the ted pes ted rom the ons are tly ate .
in bnn , the ion q is ned by a eal - ued ion tor hat its oth the get ues and get pes .
if his tor is a ral ork , an ded ion of the ion thm can be yed to fit ese ope nts as ell , as lly own by ( ard et al . , 123 eir thm " ent rop " nds the ion ror ion by a ond erm ing the ean are ror of the pes .
ent ent in ope ace is hen ned ith ion to ize oth ror ons .
in the nts ted ere , ver , we sed an nce - sed ion ion que bed in
123 ing ect ain ies
ice hat the pes ted rom ons ill be nly ely ect , nce hey are ved rom the ate ion els mi .
if his ain dge is eak , the pes can be ily oor , ich may ead ion .
bnn ces his red ect by ing the acy of the ted pes and ing the cal ent of ing by ese ted ope ies .
lly ing , the acy of pes is ted by the ion acy of the ion ( his tic has een med lob * ) .
ore lly , ach ime the ain ory is sed to ost - cto ict a ate 123 , its ion st ~ ted may ate rom the ved ate ied nce the i - tep ion acy at ate sk , ted by cl ( i ) , is ned as 123 nus the zed ion ror :
123 _ ii st ~ ted - red ii
for a ven ode we ine the n - tep acy cn ( i ) as the uct of the i - tep ies in the ext n eps .
the n - tep acy , ich res the acy of the eri ved pes n eps way rom the end of the ode , ses ree ble ies : a .
it is i if the ned ain ory is tly ect , b .
it ses lly as the gth of the ain of ces ses , and c .
it is ded low by o .
the n - tep acy is sed to ine the tio ith ich the cal and ive nts
ion - sed ral ork ing for bot rol
are ted hen ing the get ept .
if an ion is n eps way rom the end of the ode .
the lly ved ing ion ( pes ) is ted by the n - tep acy mes the ght of the ive ent ( ues ) .
ugh the tal lts ted in ion 123 are ing .
the ity of his ach is an pen ion .
due to the tic ure of the ion lob * .
123 bnn and ent ing
to ake bnn ble to bot ing , we end it ere to a ore ted eme for ing the ion ion q .
ely ins ' q - ing ( ins , 123 ) ned ith ton ' s ral nce ods ( ton , 123 the son for ing so is the lem 123 / mal ion ces in bot ing : ots ust ore eir ent .
i . e . , hey ust ect non - mal ons .
uch non - mal ons can ave a ive act on the nal ard of an ode ich lts in oth ing get ues and ing ope tes .
ins ' q - ing ( ins , 123 ) its non - mal ons ing the rse of in his thm ets for q are ted ely , sed on the mum ble q - lue at the ext ate : 123
q ( sk , ak ) =
if k is the nal tep and r nal ard
, m ~ q ( k+l , a ) ise
ere , ( o ~ , ~ i ) is a unt / tor hat nts ard ver ime , ich is nly sed for ing the ber of ons .
ton ' s td ( a ) ( ton , 123 ) can be sed to ine oth ins ' q - ing and the non - ive q - ion eme ing the ous ion .
ere the ter a ( 123 ~ a ~ 123 ) nes the tio een ive and non - ive nts :
if k nal tep ( i - a ) , max a q ( k+l , a ) + a , q ( k+l , k+d ise ( 123 eq .
( 123 ) bes the ded ive ent of the bnn ing lhm .
the ion of the cal ent in bnn is ard .
pes are ted via the ive of eq .
( 123 ) , ich is ted via the ive of oth the els ! iii and the ive of q .
if k ast tep
123 tal lts
bnn has een ted in a ted bot ion ain .
the rld and the ion ace are ted in fig .
the ing ask is to ind a q ion , for ich the edy icy tes the ent to its oal ion ( cle ) rom ary ing ons , ile ing ons ith the lls or the cle ( are ) .
tes are
123 der to ify the ion .
we ume hat ard is nly ved at the end of the ode ,
and is lso led by the ion els .
the ion to ore ral ses is ard .
ell and run
ure 123 : a .
the ted bot rld .
ons .
the red ion ror of the ain ory rks ses lly as the unt of ing ata ses .
ese ine ive ain ies ere sed in the nts .
bed by the cal iew of the ent .
in rms of ces and les to the ter of the oal and to the ter of the cle .
ote hat the rld is tic in ese nts , and hat ere is no sor ise .
we ied ins ' q - ing and td ( ~ ) as bed in the ous ion ith 123 and a unt tor 123 .
ach of the ive ons was led by a ate ral ork ( 123 den its ) and ach had a ate q ion ion .
the ter ons ere ted by a nce - sed cal ion que .
in a ell , his que zes all ing ces and eir pes tly , and its a cal tic del ver the ( 123 est ors to the ery int , ing oth get ues and get pes .
we und lly hat his que med ent rop in the ain at and . 123 we lso ied an nce lay que sed by lin ( lin , 123 in der to lly oit the ion ven by the ved ing fig .
123 ows age nce ves for bnn ing ine ent ain ies ( ion els ) ned to ent ies , ith ( fig .
23a ) and out ( fig .
23b ) ing the n - tep acy of the pes nto unt .
23a ows the ain ult .
it ows rly hat ( 123 ) bnn nns ely ive ing , ( 123 ) ore ate ain ies eld ter nce han ess ate ies , and ( 123 ) bnn ing de ( cid : 123 ) des lly as the acy of the ain ory ses , lly ing the nce of ely ive ing .
in the mit , as the ize of the ing ata set ows , we ect all ods to rge to the ame tic nce .
ion - sed ral ork ing .
red to ely ive ing , gen ( cid : 123 ) zes ore ely rom ess ing ata .
it ces the eed for rge ing ata ets by ing ead on a sly ned ain ory .
ted by ral rks .
in his per , bnn has een bed and ted in rms of bot ing sks .
use the ned ion els mi are ent of the lar rol ask ( ard ion ) , his dge red ing one ask ers tly to her sks .
ote hat in a ond ent not ted ere , we ied bnn ing ral ork
ion for q and ent rop lly in a eal bot ain .
ion - sed ral ork ing for bot rol
" . . . . .
ure 123 : how oes ain dge ove ion ? a .
ged lts for bnn ain ies of ing ies , pre - ned ith rom 123 to 123 123 ing les for ach ion del ork .
in ast , the old rey ine cts the ing rve for ure ive ing , i . e . , q - ing and td ( a ) .
ame nts , but out ing the cal ent of bnn by its acy , ing the nce of the wb* tic .
all ves are ged ver 123 uns and are lso lly dow - ged .
the nce ( cal xis ) is red on an ent est set of ing ons .
bnn ers rom her hes to dge - sed ral ork ing , uch as lik / ell ' s nns ( lik and ell , 123 ) .
in hat the ain dge and the get ion are tly ted , and hat oth are ned rom tch .
a jor nce rom her del - sed hes to bot ing , uch as ton ' s yna ure ( ton , 123 ) or dan ! art ' s tal her hod ( dan and art , 123 ) , is the ity of bnn to ate oss the rum of ong to eak ain ies ( ing ob* ) .
bnn has een und to ade lly as the acy of the ain ory ses .
we ave ted the ity of bnn to fer dge ong bot ing sks .
ver , ere are ral pen ons ich ill ive ure rch , the ost ant of ich are : a .
can bnn be ded to eal - ued , zed
ell and run
ion ces ? so far we ume ete ons .
can bnn be ded to dle rst - der ate gic .
ich is mon in lic hes to ebl ? c .
how ill bnn orm in hly tic ins ? d .
can dge her han pes ( uch as her der ves ) be ted via ons ? e .
is it ble to lly ion / ize the ain ory as ell as the get ion , as his is the ase ith lic ebl ods ? ore rch on ese ues is ted .
we ank uke oka , ong - ji lin .
the cmu bot ing oup .
ude lik , and ike dan for ble ons and ons .
his rch was red in art by the ics lab , ght rch and ent ter .
cal ems ion ( psc ) .
air rce .
ght - son afb .
oh 123 - 123 der act 123 - 123 - c - rpa der no .
123 and by a ant rom ens ion .
