act .
ver the ast ade , nal tic nce ing ( mri ) has ged as a ful new ent to ect ast ies of ata out ity in the man ain .
a cal mri ent can uce a ree - nal age ted to the man cts ain ity ery alf ond , at a ial ion of a few ers .
as in her ern cal ces , his new ion has led to a ood of new ata , and a ing eed for new ata sis ods .
we ibe ent rch ing ine ing ods to the lem of ing the ive ate of a man ect sed on rmi ata ved ver a gle ime val .
in lar , we ent ase ies in ich we ave lly ned ers to ish ive tes uch as ( 123 ) her the man ect is ing at a ure or a nce , ( 123 ) her the ect is ing an ous or non - ous nce , and ( 123 ) her the ord the ect is ing is a ord ing ood , ple , ngs , etc .
his ing lem des an ing ase udy of ier ing rom ely igh nal ( 123 res ) , ely rse ( ens of ing les ) , isy ata .
his per zes the lts ned in ese ree ase ies , as ell as ons ned out how to lly ply ine ing ods to ain ers in uch ngs .
ion , ian ier , ort tor ine , est bor , ain age sis
tic ata sis , nal tic nce ing , igh nal ata , ure
the udy of man ain ion has ved a ous ost in ent ars rom the ent of nal tic nce ing ( mri ) , a ain ing hod hat lly ves our ity to rve tes of ral ain ity in man cts at igh ial ion ( ral ers ) , oss the ire ain .
his mri ogy ers the ise of ary new hes to ing man ive ses , ded we can lop ate ata sis ods to ake nse of his uge ume of ata .
a nty - ute mri ion ith a gle man ect ces
ell et al .
a ies of ree nal ain ges ach ing ely 123 , 123 els , ted nce per ond , ing ens of ons of ata ons .
nce its ent , mri has een sed to uct eds of ies hat ify cic ons of the ain hat are ted on age hen a man rms a lar ive ion ( e . g . , ing , tal ery ) .
the ast ity of his hed ork rts ive ics of ain ity , ted by ing her mri ata ted ver ple ime als , in ich the ect nds to ted uli of ome ype ( e . g . , ing a ety of rds ) .
in his per we der a ent oal : ing ine ing ers to au - lly ode the cts ive ate at a gle ime ant or val .
the oal ere is to ake it ble to ect ent ive tes , her han ize ity ged ver any des .
his ity uld rly be ful in ing the den ive tes of a ect ing a gle , cic ask .
uch ier ing hes are lso lly ble to cal sis ems ich are ten ast as ion ems , uch as ing ers ase .
ile the hes we uss ere are ill in eir ncy , and the ore nal ach of ing ive ics ues to ate mri rch , his ive ata sis ach sed on ine ing has ady gun to ain nce hin the nce and cal ics rch ies ( e . g . , her et al . , 23; cox & voy , 23; ell et al . , 123 ) .
his lem ain is lso ite ing rom the ive of ine ing , use it des a ase udy of ier ing rom ely igh nal , rse , and isy ata .
in our ase ies we ter ems ere the les are bed by 123 , 123 res , and ere we ave ess han a zen , ery isy , ing les per ass .
ugh nal dom ght est ier ing uld be ble in uch eme ngs , in act we ave und it is ble in his lem ain , by ign of ate ure ion , ure ion and ier ing ods ned to ese lem ics .
in his per we rst ide a ief ion to mri , hen ibe ral mri ata ets we ave zed , the ine ing hes we red , and ons ned out how est to ply ine ing hes to the lem of ing ive tes sed on gle val mri ata .
nal tic nce ing
nal tic nce ing ( mri ) is a que for ing ree - nal ges ted to ral ity in the ain ugh ime .
ore ely , mri res the tio of ted bin to ted bin in the ood ith ect to a rol ine , at any ual ons hin the ain .
it is ely ved hat ood gen vel is ced by cal ral ity , and nce his ood gen vel ent ( old ) nse is lly ken as an tor of
an mri ner res the lue of the mri nal ( old nse ) at all the nts in a ree nal rid , or age .
in the ies bed in his per , a ree
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
nal age is red ery 123 , 123 , or 123 nds .
we fer to the lls hin his ree - nal age as els ( ume nts ) .
the els in a cal mri udy ave a ume of a few ens of bic ers , and a cal ree nal ain age lly ins 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 els ich ain cal ter and are hus of est .
ile the ial ion of mri is lly ter han hat ded by ier ain ing ods , ach xel ess ins on the der of eds of nds of ons .
the ral nse of the mri old nal is red ver ral nds .
ven an lse of ral ity , uch as the ity in ual tex in nse to a ash of ght , the mri old nse ted ith his lse of ral ity res for any nds .
it lly ses to a mum ter ely our to ve nds , ing to ine els ter her ve to ven nds .
ite his ged ral nse , ome ers ( e . g . , non et al . , 123 ) ave ted hat the ive ing of nts can be ved to hin a few ens of nds ( e . g .
to ish the ive ing of two hes of one in the eft eye and one in the ght eye ) , ing ope hat at ast ome ral ics of ain ion can be ied at ond ion ing mri .
a all ion of mri ata is ted in ure 123
his ure ows ata ted ver a een ond val ing ich the ect ead a ord , ded her it was a oun or erb ( in his ase , it was a erb ) , hen ted for her ord .
his ata was led nce per ond for een nds , ver een nar ces , one of ich is own in the ure .
ted ork ing mri ata
ver ent ars ere has een a ing est hin the ter nce ity in ata ing for mri .
one lar yle of ing ves ing zed ear els ( glm ) as in ton et al .
( 23a , 23b ) and bly ( 123 ) .
ere a ion is med for ach xel , to ict the nal lue at hat xel , sed on ies of the lus .
the ree to ich xel ity can be ted rom lus res is ken as an ion of the ree to ich the els ity is ted to the lus .
ice his ion lem ( ict xel ity ven the lus ) is hly the rse of the lem we der ere ( ict ive ate ven all xel ies ) .
ers ave sed t - ics to ine ant ive els , and yet ers ave sed ore lex cal ods to ate ers of the old nse in the nce of ise ( ese , 123 ) .
ous ods for ing ime ies ave een sed for ing mri ata .
for ple , jen - sen , sen , and sen ( 123 ) sed den kov els ( hmm ) to arn a del of ity in the ual tex ing rom a ing ght lus .
ugh the ram was not old the lus , the on - off lus was red as the den ate by the hmm .
a ety of sed ing ods ave lso een sed for ory sis of mri ata .
for ple , tte et al .
( 123 ) sed the use of ing ods for mri ata .
one lar ach ( nny , 123 ) ved the ion of ion
ell et al .
ure 123
cal mri ata .
the top ion of the ure ows mri ata for a ted set of els in the tex , rom a two - nal age ane ugh the ain .
a een ond val of mri ata is ted at ach xel ion .
the ior ion of the ain is at the top of the ure , ior at tom .
the eft ide of the ain is own on the ght , ing to ard cal ion .
the ull ree - nal ain age sts of een uch age nes .
the tom ion of the ure ows one of ese ots in ter ail .
ing his val the ect was ted a ord , red her the ord was a oun or erb , hen ted for her ord .
ion to ate ure els to ter the ata .
ers ave sed ple nts sis and ent nts sis ( own et al . , 123 ) to ine ial - ral ors hat can be rly ned to uct the mri
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
ile ere has een tle ork on our cic lem of ing ers to ode ive tes , ere are ral ers ing ork ith ely ted als .
for ple , xby et al .
( 123 ) wed hat ent rns of mri ity are ted hen a man ect ews a aph of a ace sus a use , sus a hoe , sus a air .
ile hey did not lly use ese red rns to ify ent gle - ent ata , hey did ort hat by ing the mri ata for ach aph ory nto two les , hey uld lly tch the ple ans ted to the ame ory .
ore tly ( cox & voy , 123 ) ied ort tor ine and ear ant sis to a lar set of ata to lly ify rns of mri ion ked by the ion of phs of ous ies of cts .
ers ( ner et al . , 123 ) ted hat hey ave een ble to ake ter - han - dom ons ing her a lly ted ord ill be red ter , sed on the ude of ity hin ain rts of eft tal and ral ces ing hat ion .
in ion to ork on mri , ere has een ted ent ork ing ine ing ods to ata rom her ces ing ain ity .
for ple , rtz , rio , and ler ( 123 ) ibe nts ing ers of ain tes for gle ial eeg ata , ile ( ems et al . , 23; her et al . , 123 ) ort ing ain ate ers for ges ned via ron ion phy ( pet ) .
the ork ted in the ent per lds on our ier rch bed in ell
( 123 ) and ang , son , and ell ( 123 ) .
his ion iey bes our ach to ata ing , ing ers , and
ata ion and ing
in the mri ies red ere , ata ere ted rom mal nts rom the ity ity .
cal ies ved een ve and een cts , and we lly ted a set of ese cts ith the est , ast isy mri nal to ain our ers .
ata ere sed to ove cts due to ead ion , nal ift , and her ces , ing the sco ram ( ddy et al . , 123 ) . 123 all xel ity ues ere ted by the ent nce rom eir ean lue ing est ons ( hen the ect is ked to lax , and not orm any lar ask ) .
ese sed ges ere sed as put to our ers .
in ral ses , we und it ful to ify cic lly ned ons of est ( ois ) hin the ain of ach ect .
to eve his , two pes of ain ges ere ted for ach ect .
the rst ype of age , ich has een sed up to his int in the per , res ain ion via the old nse , and is red to as a nal age .
the ond ype of age , led a ral age , res the tic cal ain ure at her ion .
for ach ect , his ral age was sed to ify the cal ons of est , ing the ion eme of
ell et al .
ess et al .
( 123 ) and her et al .
( 123 ) .
for ach ect , the ean of eir nal ges was hen co - red to the ral age , so hat ual els in the nal ges uld be ted ith the ois ied in the ral age .
ing ods
in his per we ore the use of ine ing ods to ate ion ons of the ing orm
f : mri - nce ( 123 , 123 ) ate
ere mri - nce ( 123 , 123 ) is the nce of mri ges ted ing the con - ous ime val ( 123 , 123 ) , and ere ate is the set of ive tes to be ted .
ach of our ata ets des mri ata rom ple man cts .
ept ere ise ted , we ned a ate ion ion for ach ect .
we red a ety of ods for ing mri - nce ( 123 , 123 ) as put to the ier .
in ome ses we ded the put as a tor of ual xel ies , a ent ity for ach xel and for ach age red ing the val ( 123 , 123 ) .
his can be an ely igh nal ure tor , ing of eds of nds of res ven hat a cal age ins 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 els , and a ing ple can ude ens of ges .
ore , we red a ety of hes to ing the ion of his ure tor , ing ods for ure ion , as ell as ods hat ace ple ure ues by eir ean .
ese ure ion and ure ion ods are bed in ail in ion 123 .
we red a ber of ier ing ods , ing :
ian ive yes ( gnb ) .
the gnb ier ses the ing ata to ate the ity ion ver mri ons , ned on the cts ive ate .
it hen ies a new ple ( cid : 123 ) x = ( cid : 123 ) 123 .
xn ( cid : 123 ) by ing the ity p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) of ive ate ci ven mri ion ( cid : 123 ) x .
it tes his p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) ing yes ule , ong ith the ion hat the res x j are lly ent ven the ass :
p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) =
p ( x j | ci ) p ( x j | ck )
ere p tes ons ted by the gnb rom the ing ata .
ach dis - ion of the orm p ( x j | ci ) is led as a ate ian , ing mum ood tes of the ean and nce ved rom the ing ata .
tri - ons of the orm p ( ci ) are led as lli , ain ing mum ood tes sed on ing ata .
ven a new ple to be ied , the gnb uts ior ies for ach ive ate , ted ing the ove ula .
p ( x j | ci ) .
we red two nts of the gnb , ich fer nly in eir ach to
the ate ian ons
ing the ces of
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
gnb - nce , it is med hat the nce of xel x j is cal for all ses ci .
his gle nce is ted by the ple nce of the led ata for x j ken rom all ses ( ith the ass ean ted out of ach lue ) .
in gnb - nce , the nce is ted ely for ach xel and ass .
ort tor ine ( svm ) .
we sed a ear nel ort tor ine ( see ,
for nce , ges ( 123 ) ) .
k est bor ( knn ) .
we use k est bor ith a ean nce ric ,
ing ues of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 for k ( see , for nce , ell ( 123 ) ) .
ing lts
ned ers ere ted by eir oss - ted ion ror hen ing ean - ued ion ons .
hen ore han two ses are ved , our ers put a ank - red ist of the ial ses rom ost to ast ely .
in his ase , we red the ess of ach ion by the zed ank of the ect ass in his ted ist , ich we fer to as the zed ank ror .
hus , the zed ank ror ges rom 123 hen the ect ass is ked ost ely , to 123 hen it is ked ast ely .
ote his zed ank ror is a ral ion of ion ror hen ple ses are ved , and is cal to ion ror hen tly two ses are ved .
ote lso hat dom ing lds an ted zed ank ror of 123 ess of the ber of ses der ion .
to ate ers , we lly loy k - old oss - ion , ing out one ple per ass on ach old .
in the ata ets red in his per , the ing ses are ced ( i . e . , the ber of ble les is the ame for ach ing ass ) .
hus , by ing out one ple per ass we ain a ced ing set for ach old , ich tly cts the ass ors .
use the mri old nse is red out ver ral nds , a ict ave - out - one - ple - per - ass ion can mes uce tic tes of the rue ier ror .
the son is ard : hen ing out a est age ing at ime t , the ing ges at mes t + 123 and t 123 ill be hly ted ith his est age .
ore , if the ges at t 123 and t + 123 ong to the ame ass as the age at t , and are ded in the ing set , his can ead to lly sed ror tes for the eld out ple .
hen ced ith his ion ( i . e . , in the tic ies udy bed low ) , we oid the tic ias by ing rom the ing set all ges hat cur hin 123 nds of the eld out est age .
in his ase , our oss ion ure ves ing out one est ple per ass , and lso ing lly ate ges rom the ing set .
ase ies
his ion bes ree nct mri ies , the ata ted in ach , and the ssi - ers ned for ach .
in his ion we ize the ess of the est ier ned for ach of ese ies .
ion 123 ses ore lly the ons ned oss ese ree ase ies .
ell et al .
ure sus nce udy
in his mri udy ( ler , ust , & ger , 123 ) , cts ced a ion of als .
ing ach ial hey ere own in nce a nce and a ple ure , hen red her the nce tly bed the ure .
we sed his ata to ore the ity of ing ers to ish her the ect is ing a nce or a ure ing a lar ime val .
in alf of the als the ure was ted rst , wed by the nce .
in the ing als , the nce was ted rst , wed by the ure .
in her ase , the rst lus ( nce or ure ) was ted for 123 nds , wed by a ank een for 123 nds .
the ond lus was hen ted for up to 123 nds , ing hen the ect sed the use ton to ate her the nce tly bed the ure .
lly , a est iod of 123 nds was ted ore the ext ial gan .
hus , ach ial ted ely 123 nds .
res ere ric nts of the ols + , and / or $ , uch as
ces ere ons uch as it is rue hat the lus is low the lar .
alf of the ces ere ted ( e . g . , it is not rue hat the tar is ove the lus . ) and the her alf ere ive ces .
ach ect was ted a tal of 123 als as bed ove , sed ith ten nal est ods .
ing ach of ese est ods , the ect was ked to lax ile ing at a xed int on the een .
mri ges ere ted ery 123 sec .
the ing ask we der for his udy is to ain a ier to ine , ven a lar 123 - ond val of mri ata , her the ect is ing a nce or a ure ing his val .
in her rds , we ish to arn a ate ier for ach ect , of the ing orm
f : mri - nce ( 123 , 123 + 123 ) ( ure , nce )
ere 123 is the ime of lus ( ure or nce ) set .
hus , the put to the ier is an 123 - ond val of mri ata ing hen the ure or nce is rst ted to the ect .
ugh the lus was ted for a mum ion of nly 123 nds , we ose his 123 - ond val in der to ure the ull mri ity ted ith the lus ( all rom ion 123 hat the mri old nal ten nds for 123 nds ond the ral ity of est ) . 123
ere ere a tal of 123 les ble rom ach ect ( 123 les per ass ) .
the mri - nce was elf bed by the ies of all els in tex .
the age ber of tex els per ect was ely 123 , 123 , and ied tly by ect , sed in rge art on the ize of the cts ead .
ote hat the ght ond val red by the ier ins 123 ges ( ges ere red ice per ond ) , ing an put ure tor ing ely 123 , 123 res , ore
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
the ted ion ror of the ult ier ( ing the ost mon ass ) is 123 in his ase .
the age ror ned for the ost ful ned ier , ing the ost ful ure ion egy , was 123 , ged ver 123 cts , ith the est ect ing 123 ( fer to ion 123 for ore ils ) .
ese lts are lly hly ant , and ate hat it is eed ble to ain ers to ish ese two ive tes bly .
in ion to ese gle - ect ers , we lso ted ith ing ssi - ers hat ate oss ple cts .
in his ase , we ted the ion ror ing a ave - one - ect - out ime in ich we eld out ach of the 123 cts in urn ile ing on the her 123
the ean ror ver the eld out ect for the ost suc - ful ion of ure ion and ier was 123 .
ain , his is tly ter han the ted 123 ror rom the ult ier , ing hat it is ble to ain ers for his ask hat ate on man cts who ere not art of the ing set .
ese lts are bed in ail in ion 123 .
tic ity udy
in his mri udy ( see son et al . , 123 ) cts ere ted ith ces , ome of ich ere ous , and ere ked to ond to a yes - no ion out the ent of ach nce .
the ons ere ned to ure hat the ect was in act ing the nce .
the ing ask for his udy was to ish her the ect was tly ing an ous nce ( e . g . , the ced ers ned out the ers ted the ght aid .
) or an ous nce ( e . g . , the ced ers oke out the ers ore the ght aid . ) . 123
ten ces of ach of ype ere ted to ach ect .
ach nce was ted for 123 nds .
ext a ion was ted , and the ect was ven 123 nds to wer .
ter the ect red the ion , or 123 nds sed , an x red on the een for a 123 ond est iod .
the ner ted one mri age ery 123 nds .
we are ted ere in ing a ier hat kes as put an val of mri ity , and nes ich of the two pes of nce the ect is ing .
ing our ier ion , for ach ect we ned ers of the orm
f : mri - nce ( 123 + 123 , 123 + 123 ) ype
ere ype = ( ous , ous ) , and ere 123 is the ime at ich the nce is rst ted to the ect .
ote the ier put bes mri ity ing the val rom 123 to 123 nds ing ial ion of the nce .
his is the val ing ich the mri ity is ost nse .
ere ere a tal of 123 les for ach ect ( 123 les per ass ) .
the mri - nce was bed ing nly the els rom our ois red to be ost ant by a ain ert .
ese 123 ois ned a tal of 123 to 123 els , ing on the ect .
ote the 123 ond val red by the ier ins 123 ges ( ges ere red ery 123 nds ) , ing a ier put tor ing rom 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 res , ing on the man ect , ore ure ion .
ell et al .
the ted ion ror of the ult ier ( ing the ost mon ass ) in his ase is 123 , ven the ual ber of les rom oth ses .
the age ror ned by the ost ful ion of ure ion and ier was 123 , ged ver 123 cts , ith the est gle - ect ier ing an ror of 123 ( fer to ion 123 for ore ils ) .
tic ies udy
in his udy , 123 cts ere ted ith ual uns ing to lve nct tic ies ( e . g . , its , ols ) , and ked to ine her the ord ged to a lar ory .
we sed his ata to ore the ity of ing ers to ect ich of the tic ies of ord the ect was ing .
the als in his udy ere ded nto lve cks .
in ach ock , the ame of a tic ory was rst yed for 123 nds .
ing his , the ect was own a ion of 123 rds , ach ted for 123 sec and wed by 123 sec of ank een .
ter ach ord was ted , the ect ked a use ton to ate her the ord ged to the tic ory med at the ing of the ock .
in act , rly all rds ged to the med ory ( alf the cks ned no out - of - ory rds , and the ing cks ned ust one out - of - ory ord ) .
a lti - ond ank een est iod was ted een ach of the lve cks .
the lve tic ies of rds ted ere sh , our - ged als , ees , ers , its , les , ily ers , ons , ols , hen ems , ngs , and ing rts .
rds ere sen rom sts of igh ncy rds of ach ory , as ven in tig and gue ( 123 ) , in der to oid ure or ple - ing rds .
mri ges ere red nce per ond .
the ing ask we red for his udy is to ish ich of the lve tic ies the ect is ing , sed on a gle ved mri age .
ing our ier ion , we ish to arn a ier of the orm :
f : mri ( t ) ory
ere mri ( t ) is a gle mri age , and ere ory is the set of 123 tic ies bed ove .
a tal of 123 ple ges ere ted for ach ect ( 123 les per ass , mes 123 ses ) .
all els rom 123 ois ere sed , ing a tal of 123 , 123 to 123 , 123 els , ing on the ect .
in his ase the ier put is a gle age , so the ier put ion is ual to the ber of els , ior to ure ion .
the ned ier uts a ank - red ist of the 123 ies , ked rom ost to ast ble .
we ore ate ier ror ing the zed ank ror bed in ion 123 , ere the ult ier ( ing the ost ent ass ) lds an ted zed ank ror of 123 .
the zed ank ror for the ost ful ion of ure ion and ier was 123 ( i . e .
on age the ect ord ory was ked rst or ond out of the lve ies ) , ver 123 cts , ith the est ect ing 123 .
( fer to ion 123 for ils ) .
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
ure 123
lor ots how ons of els hat est ict the ord tic ory , for ree ent man cts .
for ach xel , the lor tes the zed ank ror ver the est set , for a gnb ier sed on his gle xel .
ote the ial ing of hly ive els , and the lar ons of ity oss ese ree cts .
the nge of zed ank ors is ( red 123 , ark lue 123 ) , ith her ors ate een ese two mes .
ach age nds to a gle two - nal ane ugh the ain of one ect .
one ble ion hat can be sed ing ese ier lts is her the ier is eed ing the ern of ain ity ive of tic ies , or her it is ead ing rns ted to ome her ime - ing non hat ces mri ion .
one ate rty of the tal col for ing ata , rom his int of iew , is hat all of the rds ing to a gle ory are ted hin a gle ime val ( i . e . , a gle ent ock ) .
in act we do eve his ral ncy may be ing our lts , but we lso be - eve the ier is eed ing ies ily ted to tic ies .
one ong ece of ing nce is hat ers ned for ent man sub - cts end to ely on the ame ain ons to ake eir ons , and hat ese ons ave een ted by ers as ted to tic ion .
ure 123 il - tes the ain ons ing the ost ive mri nal for ion , oss ree cts .
in his ure , red and low ate the els ose ity ows ost ate ion .
ote the hly ing els are red her , in lar ons oss ese cts .
ese ons for ity tch ose ted in ier ork on tic ion by hao , xby , and tin ( 123 ) , hao , erg , and tin ( 123 ) , hai et al .
( 123 ) and rre , ahn , and ito ( 123 ) , as ell as ome vel eas hat are tly der ion .
ons ned
can one arn to ode tal tes rom mri ?
the ary oal ing to his rch was to ine her it is ble to use ine ing ods to ode tal tes rom gle val mri ata .
the ful lts ted ove for all ree ata ets ate hat his is eed ble in
ell et al .
a ety of ing ses .
ver , it is ant to ote hat ile our cal lts ate the ity to lly ish ong a ned set of tes ing at cic mes ile the ect rms cic sks , hey do not yet ate hat ned ers can bly ect ive tes ing at ary mes ile the ect rms ary sks .
ile our ent lts may ady be of use in ive nce rch , we end to sue his ore ral oal in ure ork .
we lso ted but led to ain ful ers for ral her ion ons ned ver ese ame ata ets .
for ple , we ere ble to ain an ate ier to ish the ing of ted sus ive ces in the ure sus nce udy .
we ere lso ful in pts to ain ers to ish the ing of rue sus lse ces , or ces ich the ect red tly sus tly .
it may be hat ese res uld be sed ven ger ing ets or ore ive ing hms .
ely , it may be the ase hat the mri ata ply cks the ion ded to ake ese ons .
his ine of rch is ill ery new , and ile the ove lts ate the ity of ing a ety of ive tes sed on mri , at his int the ion of tly ich ive tes can be bly ted ins an pen cal ion .
ven our ial ses lus ose ted in cox and voy ( 123 ) , as ell as ely ces in ain ing ogy and ely ess in ing ine ing ods lly for his ype of ion , we are tic hat ver ime we ill be ble to ode an gly ful ion of ive tes in an gly pen ded set of tal ngs .
gly , we und hat the acy of our gle - ect ers ied nif - tly ong cts , ven hin the ame udy .
for ple , hen ing an svm for the 123 ent cts in the ure sus nce udy , the ror tes of the 123 gle - ect ers ere 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 ( nal gle - ect ata is ted in les 123 ) .
cts ing igh ies ith one ier ere lly the ame who ced igh ies for her ers , and it is ely hat the ata for the rst - ing ers ere ted by ous nds of ise ( e . g . , ant ead ion ing ing ) .
sid - ble ect - to - ect ion in mri ses has een ely ted in the mri
ore ing the pic of her one can ain ers in his ain , it is rth ing the ion of her our ted ter - han - dom ier ror tes are ply the ult of ing ied any ing hms and ure ion ods , hen ing lts for the ach hat ked est .
his is a ral sue ver one nts ith any ing hes , hen rts acy for the one hat rms est ver the est ata .
in the ing ons we ibe in ail the ent ure ion ods and ing ods we red .
for the ses of his ion , ver , ere are two ant nts to be ade .
rst , we und hat ery ing thm ( gnb , svm , and knn ) ced tly ter han dom ion ies for ery ase udy , ing our ion hat it is ble to arn ers in his ain .
ond , hen ing ure ion , res ere sen ver a ing set nct rom the est ata , ing a ave - one - out
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
oss ion ach , so hat ach est ple had no nce on ich res ere ted .
the nly way hat the est ata ced ure ion was in ing the ber of res , n , for ich lts are ted .
his gle ter n was sen for ach ing thm and udy , to ize the ean acy ver all gle - ect ers ned by hat thm for hat udy .
ven hat the ber of gle - ect ers ged rom ve to een , ing on the udy , we red hat the ice of his gle ter n uld ert nly a ery nor nce and hat we uld ely der our ted ies to be ery ose to rue ies .
to est his ure we ted an ent to are his sed ate ( ing the lue of n ich zed est set nce ) to an sed ate ned ing a ore ate and lly ive ach .
to ain the lly sed ate , we yed a ted oss ion ach to ion the ata dly nto ree ets : a ing set , ion set , and nal est set .
the ing and ion ets ere sed to ain a gnb ier , to ose the ure ion hod , and to ose the ber n of res to be ded .
the nal est set had no nce on ing or ing hat to ort , and was sed nly to ide a nal sed ate of acy .
we ran his ent ver the ata rom all 123 cts in our nce sus ure ata set .
the ing sed ror ate ded by the nal est set was 123 , eas the nal sed ate ded by our ard two - set ach was 123 .
ore , the ber of res n ted by ese two hes ere rly cal .
his tal ome rts our ure hat our ted ier ies , ile in ory tly sed , are in act ery ose to eir rue ies .
ich ier rks est ?
as sed ier , we ted ith ree ier ing ods : a ian ive yes ( gnb ) ier , k - est bor ( knn ) , and ear ort tor ma - nes ( svm ) .
ese ers ere ted use hey ave een sed lly in her ons ing igh nal ata .
for ple , ive yes ssi - ers , knn , and svm ave all een sed for ext ion ems ( gam et al . , 23; ims , 23; ang , 123 ) , ere the ion of the ata is ely 123 , ing to the ize of the ral age ary .
to est the ive nce of our ers , we med two ets of nts .
rst , for ach mri udy we zed the nce of gnb , ear svm , and knn ( ith k ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) ing as put to the ier all els in the ois ted for ose ies .
ere the nce ric is ion ror , ept for the tic ies udy ere the ric is zed ank ror .
the nce ted for a cic udy is the ean ror ver all gle - ect ers ned for hat udy , as ned by ave - one - ple - out - rom - ach - ass oss ion .
use the tic ies udy is not a ary ion ask , we did not ent ith vms on his cic udy .
the lts are own in ble 123 in the ows ing no ure ion .
the ble rts lts for the ter - ing ant of gnb in ach udy .
in the tic
ell et al .
ble 123
ror tes for ers oss all ies .
ach ble try tes the ean est ror ged ver all gle - ect ers ned for a lar mri udy and ing hod .
the ows ith ure ion no how lts hen ing all els hin the ble ois .
the ows ith ure ion yes how lts of the ure ion hod hat ced the est ors .
in ery ase ept one , his was the ive ure ion hod bed in ion 123 . 123
the ion is the try ked ith the * , for ich ive ure ion ked est .
the ant of gnb ich ced the est lts ( and ich is ore ted in his ble ) is gnb - nce for the tic ity udy , and gnb - nce for the her two ies .
ity udy his was gnb - nce , and in the her two ies it was gnb -
as can be een in the ble , the gnb and svm ers med knn .
ing the nce of knn , one can lso see a end hat nce lly ves ith ing ues of k .
our ond set of nts ned the nce of the ers hen sed in ion ith ure ion .
the cic ure ion ods we red are bed in ail in the ext ion .
for ach udy and ing hod the ble rts lts ing the ost ful ure ion hod , in the ble row ing ure ion yes .
in all ses ept one ( the ble try ked by the * ) , the ost ful ure ion hod was the ive hod bed in ion 123 . 123
as can be een in ble 123 , ing ure ion ced a rge and ent ent in ion ror oss all ies and ing ods .
as in the per - nts ith no ure ion , gnb and svm orm knn hen ure ion is sed , and the nce of knn ves as k ses .
sis .
one ear end in his ata is hat knn red ess ell han gnb or vms oss all ies and ons .
in ect , his is not too ing ven the igh nal , rse ing ata ets .
it is ell own hat the knn ier is ive to ant res , as ese res add in ant ays to the nce een ain and est les ( ell , 123 ) .
his ion for the oor nce of knn is lso ent ith the tic ent in knn nce ing rom ure ion .
as the ble lts ate , ure ion mes ces knn ror by a tor of two or ore , bly by ing any of ese ant , ing
as sed in ion 123 , the two nts of gnb we red fer nly in the ber of nct ers ted hen ing ces in the ass nal
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
ons of xel ies .
gnb - nce tes a gle nce pen - ent of the ass , eas gnb - nce tes a nct nce per ass .
we und hat gnb - nce med ter in the udy ing the est xam - les per ass ( tic ity ) , eas gnb - nce med ter in the her ies .
his cal ult is ent ith a ral ias - nce off : ing ata in der to ate wer ers lly ads to wer nce sti - tes , but to her ias .
hus , in ral as the ber of ble les ses , we ect gnb - nce to orm gnb - nce , all her ngs ing
ice hat the svm med gnb in the ure vs .
nce udy for ich ere ere 123 les per ass , but not in the tic ies udy for ich ere ere nly 123 les per ass .
ile his may be due to ous ors , it is est - ing to rve hat his end is ent ith ent lts of ng and dan ( 123 ) , in ich hey ide cal and cal nts hat gnb ten rms tic ion hen ata is rce , but not hen ata mes ore ful .
hey ain his by ing out hat ugh tic ion lly ( in the num - ber of ing les ) rms gnb , tic ion res o ( n ) les to ach its ote ile gnb res nly o ( log n ) , ere n is the ber of fea - res .
in our ase we ote hat svm , ike tic ion , res o ( n ) les , in son to the o ( ogn ) red by gnb .
ile our cal lts are too rse to ove a lly ant end for the ive nce of svm and gnb , it is ess ing to ote our lts are ent ith the sis of ng and dan
in ary , we und hen ing mri ers oss a ety of ata ets and get ons hat gnb and svm med knn ite tly .
ore , ure ion has a rge and ent ial act oss all ies and ing
ich ure ion hod rks est ?
ven hat our ion lem ves ery igh nal , isy , rse ing ata , it is ral to der ure ion ods to uce the ity of the ata ore ing the ier .
as we sed in the ous ion , and as mma - zed in ble 123 , ure ion ads to rge and lly ant nts in ion ror oss all ree of our ase ies .
his ion ses in ail the ure ion ods red in our ork , and ome ing ons ned ing ich ure ion ods ked est .
ach .
hin the eld of ine ing , the ost mon ach to ure ion hen ing ers is to ect ose res hat est ate the get ses .
for ple , ven the oal of ing a get ion ion f : x y , one mon ach to ure ion is to ank der the res of x by eir ual ion ith ect to the ass ble y , hen to ily ect the n est ing res .
ell et al .
ven the ure of ion ems in the mri ain ( and a ety of her ins as ell ) , a ond ral ach to ure ion is lso ble .
to ate , der the lem of ing a ean ier f : x y ere y = ( 123 , 123 ) , ven ing les led as ing to her ass 123 or ass 123 ( e . g . , ing to ish her the ect is ing a ure or nce ) .
in mri ies , we lly ain ree ses of ata her han two .
in ion to ata ing ass 123 and ass 123 , we lso ain ata ing to a ird ion or est ion .
his ion ion ins ata ved ing the ime als een als , ing ich the ect is lly at est ( e . g . , hey are ing her a ure nor a nce , but are ead ing at a ion int ) .
hus , we can iew the ata ted ith ass 123 and ass 123 as ing ome nal ned on the ass ble y , eas the ata ted ith ion ins no uch nal , and ead ins nly und ise ive to our ion lem .
in his ing , we can der a ond ral ach to ure ion : ore ach ure by how ell it tes the ass 123 or ass 123 ata rom his ero nal ata .
in the ogy of mri , we ore ach ure sed on how ive it is ing the ass 123 or ass 123 als , ive to the ion als .
the ion ind his ure ion hod is hat it zes ing els ith rge nal - to - ise ios , ugh it res her the ure lly hes the get ses .
we fer to his ral ing as the ero nal ing ing , zed in ure 123
ice any ion ems ing sor ata can be led in
ure 123
the ero nal ing ing .
ean ion ems in the mri ain lly ive ise to ree pes of ata : ata ing to the two get ses lus ata ted hen the ect is in the ion or est ion .
we ume the ata rom ass 123 and ass 123 are sed of ome ing nal lus ise , eas ata rom the ion ion ins no ant nal but nly ise .
in uch ngs , ure ion ods can der oth xel ity ( how ell the ure hes ass 123 rom ass 123 ) , and xel ity ( how ell the ure hes ass 123 or ass 123 rom the ero nal
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
rms of his ero nal ing ing ( e . g . , ing ich of two ple is ing sed on ice ata , ere the ero nal ion nds to und ise hen her son is ing ) .
ore , ing how to orm ure ion and ion hin his ing has nce ond the ain of mri .
in act , hin the mri ure it is mon to use ity to ect a set of ant els , and hen to are the ior of his ted set ver ous ons .
in the nts zed low , we der ure ion ods hat ect els sed on oth eir ity to ish the get ses rom one her ( ich we all ity ) , and on eir ity to ish the get ses rom the ion ion ( ich we all ity ) .
ugh ach ure sts of the lue of a gle xel at a gle ime , we oup the res ing the ame xel her for the ose of ure ion , and hus cus on ing a set of els .
in ter ail , the ure ion ( xel ion ) ods we der ere are :
ect the n ost ing els ( rim ) .
in his hod , a ate ier is ned for ach xel , ing nly the ved mri ata ted ith hat xel .
the acy of his gle - xel ier ver the ing ata is ken as a ure of the ing wer of the xel , and the n els hat ore est ing to his ure are ted .
ote hen ing oss ion ors on nal ers ing his ure ion hod , res are ted ely for ach oss - ion old in der to oid ing ata rom the est old ing the ure ion ess .
hus , the els ted may ary rom old to old .
ect the n ost ive els ( ive ) .
in his hod , els are ted sed on eir ity to ish her get ass rom the ion ion .
ore lly , for ach xel , v , and ach get ass yi , a t - est is ied to are the els mri ity in les ing to ass yi to its ity in les ing to ion ods .
the rst els are hen ted by ing for ach get ass yi the xel ith the est t tic .
the ext els are ted by ing the ond ost ive xel for ach ass , and so on , til n els are sen .
ice the ted els may ish ust one get ass rom ion , or may ish oth get ses rom ion .
ect the n ost ive els per ion of est ( ive ) .
his is lar to the ive hod ove , but res hat els are ted mly rom all ons of est ( ois ) hin the ain .
ore ely , ven m ied ois , his hod ies the ive hod to ach roi , ing n / m els rom ach .
the ion of ese xel ets is ned as the set of n ted els .
the hes ove for ing els can be ned ith ods for ing the ues of ple res ( in ace or ime ) , and ith ods hat ect ata ver a sub - val in ime .
we ted ith ous ons of uch hes , and ort ere on the ove ree ods ( rim , ive , ive ) as ell as a rth hod ved rom ive :
ate the ean of ive els per roi ( avg ) .
his hod rst cts n / m els for ach of the m ois ing the ive hod .
it hen tes a gle
ell et al .
xel for ach roi , ose ity at ime t is the ean ity of the ted roi els at ime t .
lts .
we ted ith ach of ese our ure ion ods , ver ach of the ree ase udy ata ets .
for son ses we lso red ing all ble res ( ted res in our lts les ) .
les 123 ent zed lts of ure ion nts for ach of the ree mri ies .
ach ble ows the est ors ned for ach ure ion
ble 123
ure vs .
nce gnb ier ors by ect and ure ion hod .
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
the rst umn tes the ure ion hod , ong ith the ber of res ted ( res tes ing all ble res , ich ies by ect ) .
the ond umn tes the age ror ver all 123 gle - ect ers hen ing the ure ion hod .
ing mns ate ors for ual cts a ugh m .
for ach hod , the ber of res was sen to ize the age ror ver all cts .
ble 123
tic ity gnb ier ors by ect and ure ion hod .
age ror a
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
lts are ted ing the ame mat as ble 123
ble 123
tic gnb ors by ect and ure ion hod .
ure ion age ror
lts are ted ing the ame mat as ble 123
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
hod and for ach ect red in the udy , hen ing a gnb ier .
ere the est ror ers to the est ror ved by ing the ber of ted els .
the mal ber of els ted ied by udy and ure ion hod , lly ing rom 123 to 23% of the tal ber ble hin the ted ois , nce we sed nts hin his nge .
for ach ure ion hod and udy , the ber of res was sen to ize the ean ror of all gle - ect ers ned for his udy .
his ber is own in ses ext to the ure ion hod in the ble .
the cic ers of res red ere 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 for the ure sus nce udy , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 for the tic ies udy , and 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 for the tic ity udy .
ese lts ate hat ing ure ion ads to ved ier ror in all ree ies , and hat all of our ure ion ods ove ver no ure ion in the ast ity of ses .
for ple , the ive ure ion hod rms the ach of ing all res in 123 of the 123 gle - ect ers ned ver the ree ies , and lds ent nce in the ing 123 ses .
a ond ong end in the lts is the nce of ure ion ods sed on ity ( ive , ive , avg ) ver ose sed on ity ( rim ) .
as can be een in the les , ery ity - sed ure ion hod rms the ity - sed hod , on ery ase udy .
of ese ity - sed ods , the ive hod lds est acy , and it rms the rim hod in 123 of the 123 gle - ect ers ned oss the ree ies , ing ior nce in nly 123 of the 123 ses .
ote lso hat the ive hod cts lly wer res han rim in all ree mri ies .
it is at rst ing to rve hat ing res sed on eir ity vel rks lly ter han ing hem sed on eir ity to dis - ate the get ses .
ven hat the end oal is to ate the get ses , and hat ing res sed on ity is the orm in ine ing ica - ons , one ght ell ect ity to ave een the ant hod .
low we ook per nto why we rve the ite ult in all ree mri ies .
one ion in ich we ght ect ity - sed ure ion to orm ion - sed ods is hen ata ity is ery igh , ise els are igh , ing ata are rse , and ery few els ain a nal ted to the get ses .
in uch ses , we uld ect to nd hat ome els hat are uly ant ear ess to be ood ors ver the rse ple of ing ven hen ing oss ion to est eir ion wer .
the ger the set of uch ant els , the ore ely hat a ure ion egy sed on ion uld ect uch ing els , and be ble to ish ese rom uly ive ing els .
ver , in his ame ase we ght ect hat ing els ith igh nal - to - ise ios uld be a ful egy , as it uld ove rom ion the rge ber of ant els ( i . e . , ose ith no nal , but nly ise ) .
in act , our ity - sed ure ion ies ect tly his ind of igh nal - to - ise tio els .
the tom ine is hat ach ure ion egy uns its own isk :
ell et al .
ion - sed ods run the isk of ing els hat nly lly t the isy ing ple , eas ity - sed ods run the isk of ing igh nal - to - ise els hat not ate the get ses .
ich isk is ter nds on the act lem , but the ive isk for the ion - sed hod ows ore kly ith ing ata ion , ing ise vel , ing ing set ize , and an ing ion of ant res .
to ore his ure , let us ine the ual ics of the els ted by ese two ods in our ata .
in lar , we ill cus on a gle ect in the tic ies udy : ect g , ose est age zed ank ror ( 123 ) is ned by a gnb ier ing 123 els sen ing the ive ure ion egy .
the rim hod lso ins its est ror ( 123 ) ing 123 els for his lar ect .
hat is the nce in ese two ets of els ted ing ese two ods ? are ere in act ces in the ree of ing een the two
let us der ree ets of els rom ect g : ose sen by ive ure ion but not by rim ( nly ) , ose sen by rim by not by ive ( nly ) , and ose sen tly by oth ods ( ion ) .
for his lar ect , ere are 123 els in the ion set , and 123 in ach of nly and nly .
ing a gnb ier ing nly the els in ion lds an ror of ( 123 ) , tly but not tly ter han the ror rom the ive els .
ure 123 ows the ree of ing for ach of ese ree ets of els .
on the eft , nel ( a ) des a lot of ing set ror ( tal xis ) sus est set ror ( cal xis ) .
the ght ine tes ere ing ror als est ror .
ice all ree ets of els ert to ome ree ( i . e . , est ror is lly ter han or ual to ing ror ) , but the ter of els ges est rom the ght ine for the nly els .
on the ght , nel ( b ) des a ram ing the ber of els in ach set hat ert to ing ees .
ote the nly xel set ins any ore els hat ert to a rge ree .
sed on the ata zed in his ure , it is ear hat the ree of ing is eed ter in his ase for els ted by rim han ose ted by ive .
it is lso ear hat the els in ion fer the ast ing .
a ent iew nto the ter of ese ree xel ets is ded by ure 123
the top ion of his ure ots the 123 els ith the est ing set ror rom ach of the ree ets .
ach xel lot ows the ned ian del for ach of the lve get ses .
ice the ter ead of ese els for the els sen by the rim hod ( nly and ion ) han for the nly set .
the tom ion of ure 123 des a ter lot of ard ion ( tal xis ) sus est ror ( cal xis ) for the ree xel ets .
ice the tly wer ard ion for the nly set .
ove we ted hat the rim hod for ure ion ies a isk of se - ing els hat ert the ata .
the ove ata , lly rom ure 123 , tes hat in act ing is ter for rim han for ive in our ata .
we lso ted the ive hod ies the ing isk of ing ant els .
is his
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
( a ) ter ots of ing set ror ( tal xis ) nst est set ror ( cal xis ) for the els in ach set ( row ) .
( b ) ams ing for ach xel set the ber of els hat ert to ous ees .
the tal xis in his ase is ( est ror nus ing ror ) , ing the ree of ing .
in act ing in our ase ? the ots in ure 123 how hat the nly set of vox - els oes ear to ain els hat are oor ors ong the lve get
to and the act of oor ors ( ant els ) ted by the ive hod , der the ive ght of the ant sus ant els sed by a gnb .
ven an nce ( cid : 123 ) x to be ied , the log dds ned by the gnb for two ses ci and c j is
p ( ci | ( cid : 123 ) x ) p ( c j | ( cid : 123 ) x )
p ( c j )
p ( xk | ci ) p ( xk | c j )
ere xk is the ved lue for the kth ure of ( cid : 123 ) x , and ere p tes ons ted by gnb sed on the ing ata .
ote the gnb ier ill ict ass ci if the ove log dds tio is ive , and c j if it is ive .
hus , the ion of the gnb is ned by a ear sum , ere ach xel tes one erm to the sum .
ell et al .
in the top alf of the ure , ach lot ows the 123 ned ass ity ies p ( xk | ci ) for a gle xel xk , for ect g in the tic ies udy .
the x xis ges rom 123 to 123
ach row ins the 123 els ith the est ing set ors rom ach xel set , ted by ing ror .
for nce , the ost and ost ots in ach row ave eir ( ing set , est set ) ror ues low hem .
the tom alf of the ure des ots ing the age ass ard ion ( tal xis ) nst the est ror ( cal xis ) for ach xel set ( row ) .
ote the her nce for the ing els ( ion and nly ) .
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
now let us der a xel xk ich is uly ant to the ion ( i . e . , ere the rue ons p ( xk | ci ) and p ( xk | c j ) are cal ) .
rst , der the ion in ich the ned tes p ( xk | ci ) and p ( xk | c j ) are lso cal .
in his ase the ion ing xk ill be ual to 123 , its log ill be ual to 123 ess of the ved lue of xk , and xel xk ill ore ave no nce on the nal gnb de - ion .
now der the ion in ich p ( xk | ci ) and p ( xk | c j ) fer ( e . g . , due to ing ) ite the act hat p ( xk | ci ) = p ( xk | c j ) .
in his ase , the xk erm ill in act be non - ero , and ill ave a tal , ing nce on the nal gnb ion .
is his in act ing in our ata ? the ots in ure 123 est hat the ive els hat are ant ( i . e . , ose in nly ) do eed ave gly lap - ing p ( xk | ci ) ons , ing the ude of eir ion to the nal gnb
to ize , we nd ear cal nce hat ure ion tly im - ves ion acy in our ain .
ore , we nd ear cal evi - nce hat ity - sed ure ion ods tly orm ion - sed ods ( ery ity - sed ure ion hod we red med ion - sed ure ion , in ach of our ree mri ies ) .
the ral har - tic of our lem ain hat les his ind of ure ion is zed in ure 123
in lar , the key tic is the ity of a ird ory of ata in ich her of the get ses is ata ich we fer to as the ero nal ass of ata .
we ure , and ort ith a ety of cal ons , hat ity - sed ure ion may orm ion - sed ure ion in ero - nal ion ems , lly ith ing ata ion , ise , and ata ity , and as the ion of uly ant res ses .
ven hat a ety of sor - sed ion ems t his ero - nal ing ing , we eve one of the ost ant ons ned rom the mri ain is the ity of ity - sed ure ion in uch ins .
les of uch sor - sed ion ems ude ker ice ion ( ere ero nal ata nds to und mi - one ise hen ody is ing ) , and deo ect ion in xed - era ngs ( ere ero nal ata nds to und ges ing no cts of est ) .
nal rch is ded to ize his ero - nal ing ing and ore its nce in ese and her ins .
one lly ing ion for ure ork is to and how est to end ity - sed and ion - sed ure ion to ize ing acy .
can one ain ers oss ple cts ?
all lts sed so far in his per ave sed on the lem of ing ect - cic ers .
his ion ers the ion of her it is ble to ain ers hat ply oss ple man cts , ing man cts who are not art of the ing set .
his is an ant oal use if it is ble it ens the ity of ing ect - ent ies in ain ity ted ith ent pes of ive ing , it ens the ity of ing ned ers ong ers ing mri ata ted rom any ent ple , and it kes
ell et al .
it ble to ool ing ata rom ple cts to ate the rse ata lem in his ain .
the est cle to sis of ple - ect mri ata is cal ity ong cts .
ent ins ary tly in eir pes and zes , as is ent rom the ges ken rom ree ent ins in ure 123
his ity kes it rob - tic to ter the any nds of els in one ain to eir ise ing ons in a ent ain .
one mon ach to his lem is to orm ( geo - lly rph ) mri ata rom ent cts nto ome ard cal ace , uch as ach tes ( ach & oux , 123 ) .
the ack of his hod is hat the ing ion lly ces an ror on the der of a ter , in ing the ter - ale els rom ent ins .
the ive hat we con - der ere is to ead act the mri ion , ing the ean ion hin ach roi as the ier put , ead of ing ual xel ons .
in her rds , we eat ach roi as a rge xel ose ion is ned by the ean ion ver all the els it ins .
ote his is ent to ing our age ure ion hod , ing all els hin ach roi .
ite the cal ity in ain zes and pes , it is ely asy for ned rts to lly ify the ame set of ois in ach ect .
a ond lty hat ses hen ing ple - ect ers is hat the ten - ity of mri nse to a lar lus is ten ent oss cts .
to lly ess his sue , we loy a ion hod hat rly les the ata rom ent cts nto the ame mum - mum nge .
ile ere are any oss - ect ces hat not be sed by his ple ear ion , we ave und his ion to be ful .
we ave lso und hat a lar ion hod can mes uce ion ror for gle - ect ers , hen sed to ize ata oss ent als ted ith a gle ect .
of rse a ird lty hat ses is ply hat ent ple may ink tly , and we ave no son to ume a ori hat we uld nd the ame ial - ral rns of mri ion in two cts ven if we uld tly ign eir ins lly , and tly ize the ive ies of eir mri ngs .
hus , the ion of her one can ain ple - ect ers is tly a ion of her ent ins ave tly rly to bit a mon ern of ion .
we med nts to ain ple - ect ers ing two ata ets : the ure sus nce ata , and the tic ity ata .
the ing two sec - ons ibe ese two nts in urn .
we did not mpt to ain ple - ect ers for the ird set , tic ies , use we ted the led pat - rns of ity hat ish ord ies uld be ble nce the xel - vel ata was ted to ean roi ity .
nce sus ure udy .
we ned ple - ect ers for the sen - nce sus ure udy , to ate her the ect was ing a ure or a nce .
ple - ect ers ere ned ing ata rom 123 of the 123 cts , ing the ata rom ach ect nto ven roi els .
to ate the ror of ese ned ers , we sed ave - one - ect - out oss ion .
in lar , for
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
ble 123
ors for ple - ect ier , nce sus ure udy .
the ght umn ows the ror of a lti - ect ier hen ied to cts eld rom the ing set , ing ave - one - ect - out oss ion .
lts are ned ing iza - ion and 123 ois .
all ers are ned by ver - ing all els in an roi nto a xel .
23% nce als are ted der the as - ion hat est les are lly , nde - tly lli ted .
the ror of a ran - dom ier is 123 .
in his sis we yed the gnb - nce ion of gnb .
ach ect we ned on the ing 123 cts , red the ror on his eld out ect , hen ted the ean ror ver all eld out cts .
ice hat in his ase ere are 123 les ble to ain his ple - ect ier , in ast to the 123 les ble to ain the gle - ect ers bed ier .
the lts , zed in ble 123 , how hat the ear svm rns a ple - ect ier hat ves ror of 123 123 ver the eft out ect .
his is hly sta - lly ant red to the 123 ror ted of a ult ier ing the ity ass .
his tes hat it is eed ble to ain a ier to ure ant ect - ent ies in ain ity hat are tly ong to ect ive tes in man cts who are not art of the ing set .
as in ier nts , we ote hat svm and gnb ain orm knn , and hat the nce of knn ves ith ing ues of k .
ugh ese lts ate hat it is ble to arn ple - ect ers ith ies ter han dom , the ies are low ose ved by the gle - ect ers zed in ble 123
for ple , the ple - ect svm ier ror of 123 is ess ate han the ean gle - ect ier ror of 123 ted in ble 123
his nce uld be due to a ety of ors , ing rom the wer ial ion ing of mri uts in the ple - ect ier ( i . e . , ing els ead of ter - ale els ) , to ble ces in ain ion ver ent
in a ond set of nts we tly red ing gle - ect sus ple - ect ers , his ime ing cal ing ods and cal en - ngs for the ier put ( age , ing all els hin ven lly ted ois ) .
in ese nts we sed the ame ure sus nce ata , but
ell et al .
ble 123
ors for gle - ect and ple - ect ers , hen ned on p - hen - s , and s - hen - p ata .
the ird umn ows the age ror of ers ned for gle cts .
the rth umn ows the ror of lti - ect ers ied to cts eld rom the ing set .
lts are ned ing ion .
all ers are ned sed pon ing all els in an roi nto a xel .
23% nce als are ted der the ion hat est les are i . i . d .
lli ted .
the ror of a dom ier is 123 .
his ime we ned the ata nto two int ets : als in ich the nce was ted ore the ure ( ich we ill fer to as s - hen - p ) , and als in ich the ure was ted ore the nce ( ich we ill all p - hen - s ) .
ice hat ing the ata in his ion lts in an ier ion lem , use all les of one lus ( e . g . , ces ) cur in the ame ral ext ( e . g . , fol - ing nly the est iod in the s - hen - p set , or ing nly the ure lus in the p - hen - s set ) , and nce bit ess ity .
for ach of ese two ata sub - ets we ned oth ple - ect and gle - ect ers , ing gnb , svm , and knn ers , and ing age ure ion ith all els in the ted ois .
the lts are zed in ble 123
ote for son we ent oth the ave - 123 - ect - out ror of the ple - ect ers , and the age ave - one - ple - per - ass - out ror of the ing gle - ect ers .
as in the rst ent , the ple - ect ers eve ies tly ter han the 123 ted rom dom ing .
gly , the ple - ect ers eve ror tes ble to ose of the gle - ect ers , and in a few ses eve ror tes ior to ose of the gle - ect ite the act hat the ple - ect ers are ing ted on cts ide the ing set .
bly his ter nce by the ple - ect ier can be ned by the act hat it is ned ing an der of ude ore ing les , rom lve cts her han one .
we ret ese lts as ong ort for the ity of ing igh acy ers hat ply to vel man cts .
ote ese ers are lly ore ate han ose in the rst ent , bly due to the ier ion ask as sed ove .
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
tic ity udy .
we lso ted to ain ple - ect ers for the tic ity udy , to ate her the ect was ing an am - ous or non - ous nce .
in his ase , the ror of the lti - ect ier was 123 123 der ave - one - ect - out oss ion , and gly the age ror of gle - ect ers is 123 123 .
the ing ich ced his ult was ing the gnb ier , mum - mum ion , and the ure ion hod avg , ing the 123 ost ive els rom ach of our pre - ned ois ( eft and ght cca , and eft and ght ral ons ) nto els .
ese ors are tly ter han ted rom a dom ier , 123 .
ike the nce sus ure udy , ver , ese lts are ite ive to the tic - lar ion of ing hod and ure ion .
ugh we not raw ong ons rom his ult , it oes ide est nal ort for the ity of ing ple - ect ers .
ary and ons
we ave ted lts rom ree ent mri ies ing the ity of ing ers to ish a ety of ive tes , sed on gle - val mri ons .
his lem is ing oth use of its nce to ing man ion , and as a ase udy of ine ing in igh nal , isy , rse ata
our son of ers tes hat ian ive yes ( gnb ) and ear ort tor ine ( svm ) ers orm k est bor oss all ree ies , and hat ure ion ods tly ove ion ror in all ree ies .
in ing gnb to svm , we und nds ent ith the ons in ng and dan ( 123 ) , hat the ive nce of ive sus ive ers nds in a ble ion on the ber of ing les and ata ion .
in lar , our nts are ent ith the sis hat the acy of vms ses ely ore kly han the acy of gnb as the ata ion is ced via ure ion , and as the ber of ing les ses .
ure ion is an ant ect in the ign of ers for igh nal , rse , isy ata .
we ned a new ier ing ( the ero nal ing ) hat res an ant ect of our mri ion lem , as ell as a ety of her ssi - ion ems ing sor ata .
in his ing , the ble ata des not nly les of the ses to be ted ( e . g . , ata hen the ect is ing a ure or a nce ) , but lso a ass of ero nal ata ( e . g . , hen the ect is ing her a ure nor a nce , but is ply ing on the een ) .
our nts how hat hin our ain ity - sed ure ion ods ich ake age of his ero nal ata tly orm nal ion - sed ure ion ods hat use nly ata rom the get ses .
our ata and our sis lso est hat the ive net of ity - sed sus ion - sed ure ion ill ase as ata mes ore rse , ore isy , her nal , and as the ion of ant res ses .
as is ear rom our ion of the mri ata ets , his ain nts a rly eme int ong all our of ese ons .
we lan her
ell et al .
rch to lop a ore ise mal del of his ero nal ing , and to lop and ent ith ure ion ies ned to ake mal age of his
in ion to ing ers to ect ive tes in gle cts , we lso ex - red the ity of ing oss - ect ers to ake ons oss ple man cts .
in his ase , we und it ful to act the mri ata by ing the ean mri ity in ach of ral lly ned ain ons .
ing his ach , it was ble to ain ers to ish , e . g . , her the ect was ing a ure or a nce ing a ure , and to ply ese lly to cts ide the ing set .
in ome ses , the ion acy for cts ide the ing set led the acy ved by ing on ata rom ust his gle ect .
ven his ess in ing ple - ect ers , we lan nal rch to ore a ber of ive hes to oss - ect ion ( e . g . , ead of ing the ata for ach ect , map the ent ain res to a ard ate tem uch as ach tes ) .
ere are any nal ies for ine ing rch in the ext of mri ata sis .
for ple , it uld be ful to arn els of ral ior , in ast to the ork ted ere ich ers nly ata at a gle ime or ime val .
ine ing ods uch as den kov els and mic ian rks ear ant to his lem .
a ond rch ion is to lop ing ods hat ake age of ata rom ple ies , in ast to the gle udy rts bed ere .
in our own lab , for ple , we ave ted mri ata rom ver 123 man cts .
in der to lop ing ods to ake age of uch ata , it ill be ary to ess oth how to ine ata rom ple cts and how to ine ata rom cts ted ith ing uli .
a ird rch pic is to lop ine ing ods hat uld ake as a ing int nal ive els of man ing , uch as act - r ( son et al . , 123 ) and aps ( ust , ter , & rma , 123 ) , ing ese as ior dge for ing the sis of mri ata , and lly ing ese els to ter t ved tal
as ith any eal - rld ine ing ase ies , our ion of the mri lem ain has awn on ons ned rom ous rch in ine ing , and has ded new ons of its own .
ven hat mri is a lem ing ery igh nal , rse ata ets , we rew ily on sly ned ons rom lar ins uch as ext ion .
his led us to loy svm , gnb , and knn ion hms hat ave sly ven ful in uch ins , and led us to ely ore ure ion ods for ing the ion of the ata .
the ost ant new ght out ing to ise rom our mri ies hus far is the ion of the ero - nal ing ing and the ent of new and hly ive ure ion ods for his ing .
in lar , our ery of the ted nce of ity - sed ure ion ods ver nly sed ion - sed ods was an ial tep ard ing ful ers in his ain , and sts hat lar ure ion hes may be ful in her igh nal , rse ins hat t the ero - nal ing ing .
ing
ing to ode ive tes rom ain ges
ard , we ect ine ing ods to ave an ing act on the sis of mri ata as his eld res , and see nal ies for the mri ain to ive vel ine ing rch , lly in ems ted to ery of ons for ing ata rom ple cts , and in ing ral els of ive ses .
we are ful to uis j .
ios for ful ons and led nts on ous fts of his per .
nks to mir sky and oel ing for ful ons and ons ing the rse of his ork , and to aul ett for any ful ons and for ing art of the ode sed for the tic ies udy .
we are lso ful for the led nts of two ous ers , ich led to ant nts to the nal ion of his per .
adu fan scu was ted by a ate hip rom the rck mpu - nal ogy and try ram at gie lon ity hed by the rck any ion and by nal nce ion ( nsf ) ant no .
ccr - 123
sco ira was ded by the ter for ral sis of ion , a xis xxi hip rom cao ara a cia e gia , gal ( iii dro rio de oio , ado elo ndo ial peu ) and a phd lar - hip rom cao ste ian , gal .
cca son was ted by an nsf ate hip .
ort for ing the mri ata ets was ded by ant ber 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 rom the ary ity rch ive ( uri ) of the fce of the ary of nse .
sco is ble at ttp : / / www . tat . cmu . edu / sco .
ice his ion ask is ade ore ult by the act hat the rst lus is ays ted for
our nds , eas the ond lus is ted as oon as the ect nds ith a ton ess .
the ent ded our pes of ces .
we der ere nly two pes , ing to the ost
and ast ous .
