act .
the lem of ing ral pts rom fic ing les has ong een a jor cus of ine ing rch .
ile ost ous rch has sed on cal ods for ing rom a rge ber of ing les ing no ain - fic dge , in the ast few ars new ods ave een ped for ing ain - fic dge to for - ate lid ons rom gle ing les .
the tic mon to ese ods is hat eir ity to ize rom a gle ple ows rom eir ity to ain why the ing ple is a ber of the ept ing ned .
his per ses a ral , ain - ent ism , led ebg , hat ies ous hes to ion - sed ion .
the ebg hod is ted in the ext of ral ple ems , and sed to ast ral ing ems for ion - sed ion .
the ive on ion - sed ion af - ded by his ral hod is lso sed to ify pen rch ems in his rea .
ion and ion
the ity to ize rom les is ely zed as an ial ity of any ing tem .
ion ves ing a set of ing les of ome ral ept , ing the ial res mon to ese ex - les , hen ing a ept ion sed on ese mon res .
the ion ess can hus be wed as a rch ugh a ast ace of ble ept ons , in rch of a ect ion of the ept to be ned .
use his ace of ble ept ons is ast , the art of the iza - ion lem ies in ing ver ing ata , ons and dge are ble to ain his rch .
ost rch on the ion lem has sed on cal , ata - ive ods hat ely on rge ers of ing les to ain the rch for the ect ion ( see ell , 23; ski , 23; ich ,
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - 123
123 for ews of ese ods ) .
ese ods all loy ome ind of duc - ive ias to ide the ive eap hat hey ust ake in der to ine a ept rom nly a set of its les ( ell , 123 ) .
his ias is lly ilt nto the zer by ing it ith dge nly of ose ple res hat are med ant to ing the ept to be ned .
ugh ous hms it is hen ble to rch ugh the ted ace of pts ble in rms of ese wed res , to ine ept ons sis - ent ith the ing les .
use ese ods are sed on ing for res hat are mon to the ing les , we all fer to hem as ity - sed ion ods . 123
in ent ars , a ber of ers ave sed ion ods hat ast ply ith ese ata - ive , ity - sed ods ( e . g . , ida et al . , 23; ong , 23; dar - lli , 23; ler , 23; itz , 23; van , 23; ton , 23; ell , 23; ell et al . , 23; o ' rke , 23; erg & son , 23; ank , 23; ver , 23; off , 23; ton et al . , 123 ) .
her han ing on any ing les and an ive ias to ain the rch for a ect ion , ese ore ent ods ain the rch by ing on dge of the ask ain and of the ept der udy .
ter ing a gle ing ple in rms of his dge , ese ods are ble to uce a lid ion of the ple ong ith a ive ion of the ion in rms of the tem ' s dge .
ore ely , ese ion - sed 123 yze the ing ple by rst ing an ion of how the ple ies the ini - ion of the ept der udy .
the res of the ple ied by his ex - ion are hen sed as the sis for ing the ral ept ion .
the ion for his ept ion ows rom the ion ted for the ing ple .
hus , by ing on dge of the ain and of the ept der udy , ion - sed ods ome the tal lty ted ith in - ive , ity - sed ods : eir ity to ify the ons hat hey uce .
the sic nce een the two ses of ods is hat ity - sed ods ust ely on ome orm of ive ias to ide ion , eas ion - sed ods ely ead on eir ain dge .
ile ion - sed ods ide a ore ble ans of
' the erm ity - sed ion was ted by itz ( 123 ) .
we use his erm to ver oth ods hat rch for ies ong ive les , and for ces een ive and ive les .
123 the erm ion - sed ion was rst ced by ong ( 123 ) to ibe his par - lar ion hod .
the ors ave sly sed the erm oal - ted ion ( ell , 123 ) to fer to eir own ion - sed ion hod .
in his per , we use the erm ion - sed ion to fer to the ire ass of ods hat ate iza - ons by ing ons .
ion , and are ble to act ore ion rom ual ing les , hey lso ire hat the ner ess dge of the ain and of the ept der udy .
it ems ear hat for a rge ber of ion ems red by ent nts , his red dge is ble to the ner .
in his per we ent and yze a ber of uch ion
the ose of his per is to der in ail the ies and nts of ion - sed hes to ion , and to uce a gle ism hat ies sly bed hes .
in lar , we ent a ain - ent hod ( led ebg ) for ing ain - fic dge to ide ion , and ate its use in a ber of ion sks hat ave sly een hed ing ing ion - sed ods .
ebg tes a ore ral ism for ion - sed ion han ese ous hes .
use it res a ger ber of cit uts ( i . e . , the ing ple , a ain ory , a ion of the ept der udy , and a ion of the orm in ich the ned ept ust be sed ) ebg can be ted for a der ety of ing sks .
lly , ebg des a pec - ive for ing the ent ons of ion - sed ion , and for ing pen rch ems in his rea .
the der of his per is zed as ows .
ion 123 ces the ral ebg hod for ion - sed ion , and tes the hod ith an ple .
ion 123 hen tes the ebg hod in the ext of two nal les : ( 123 ) ing a ral ion of a cup rom a ain - ing ple lus dge out the ion of a cup ( sed on ton et al . ' s ( 123 ) ork ) , and ( 123 ) ing a rch tic rom an ple rch ree lus dge out rch and the rch ace ( sed on ell et al . ' s ( 123 ) ork on the lex tem ) .
ion 123 des ith a ral ive on ion - sed ion and a ion of ant pen rch ues in his rea .
the dix tes ong ' s ( 123 , 123 ) rch on ion - sed ion and ory ema ion to the her ork sed ere .
ion - sed ion : ion and an ple
the key ght ind ion - sed ion is hat it is ble to orm a ied ion of a gle ive ing ple ded the ing tem is wed ith ome ory ies .
in lar , the tem ust be ble to ain to elf why the ing ple is an ple of the ept der udy .
hus , the zer is med to ess a ion of the ept der udy as ell as ain dge for ing the red ion .
in his ion , we ine ore ely the ass of ion ems red by ion - sed ods , ine the ral ebg hod , and ate it in rms of a fic ple lem .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
123 the ion - sed ion lem
in der to ine the ion lem red ere , we rst uce ome ogy .
a ept is ned as a ate ver ome rse of in - ces , and hus zes ome set of the ces .
ach nce in his rse is bed by a ion of und als hat ent its res and eir ues .
a ept ion bes the ary and ent ons for ing an ple of the ept , ile a ent ept ion bes ent ons for ing an ple of the ept .
an nce hat ies the ept ion is led an ple , or ive ple of hat ept , eas an nce hat oes not sfy the ept ion is led a ive ple of hat ept .
a ion of an ple is a ept ion ich bes a set ing hat ple . 123 an ion of how an nce is an ex - ple of a ept is a oof hat the ple ies the ept ion .
an ion ure is the oof ree , ied by ing ach ted ule by the ted ral ule .
the ric lem ion own in ble 123 zes the ass of ion ems red in his per .
ble 123 tes a lar in - nce of an ion - sed ion lem rom his ass .
as ted by ese les , ing an ion - sed ing lem ves ing our nds of ion :
the oal ept nes the ept to be red .
for nce , in the lem ned in ble 123 the ask is to arn to ize irs of cts <x , y> uch hat it is afe to ack x on top of y .
ice hat the oal ept
ble 123
the ion - sed ion lem
oal ept : a ept ion ing the ept to be ned .
( it is med hat his
ept ion ils to sfy the ity ion . )
ing ple : an ple of the oal ept .
ain ory : a set of les and cts to be sed in ing how the ing ple is an
ple of the oal ept .
ity ion : a ate ver ept ons , ing the orm in ich the
ned ept ion ust be sed .
a ion of the ing ple hat is a ent ept ion for the oal ept
and hat ies the ity ion .
123 in act , we use the erm ion in his per oth as a oun ( to fer to a ral ept ini -
ion ) , and as a erb ( to fer to the ess of ing his ion ) .
ble 123
the afe - to - ack ion lem ter ida et al .
( 123 )
oal ept : irs of cts <x , y> uch hat afe - to - ack ( x , y ) , ere
afe - to - ack ( x , y ) not ( ile ( y ) ) v ter ( x , y ) .
on ( obj 123 , 123 ) isa ( obj 123 , box ) isa ( 123 , ble ) lor ( 123 , red ) lor ( 123 , lue ) ume ( obj 123 , 123 ) ity ( obj 123 , . 123 )
ume ( 123 , vl ) a ity ( 123 , dl ) - > ght ( 123 , *dl ) ght ( 123 , wl ) a ght ( 123 , 123 ) a ess ( wl , 123 ) - > ter ( 123 , 123 ) isa ( 123 , ble ) - ght ( 123 , 123 ) ( ult )
ity ion : the ept ion ust be sed in rms of the tes sed to ibe les ( e . g . , ume , lor , ity ) or her ted , ily ted , tes rom the ain ory ( e . g . , ess ) .
a ion of ing ple hat is a ent ept ion for the oal ept and
hat ies the ity ion .
ere , afe - to - ack , is ned in rms of the tes ile and ter , eas the ing ple is ned in rms of her red - tes ( i . e . , lor , ity , ume , etc . ) .
the ing ple is a ive ple of the oal ept .
for nce , the ing ple of ble 123 bes a air of cts , a box and an end - ble , ere one is ely ked on the her .
the ain ory des a set of les and cts hat low ing how ing les are ers of the oal ept .
for nce , the ain ory for his lem des ons of ile and ter , les for ing res ike the ght of an ect rom its ity and ume , les hat est ult ues uch as the ght of an ble , and cts uch as ' . 123 is ess han 123 ' .
the ity ion nes the rms in ich the put ept ion ust be sed .
our use of his erm is sed on tow ' s ( 123 ) ion hat a ure is nal ive to a ven ent and ask , ded hat the ure can be ied by the ent to lve the ask .
rly , we ume hat the ned ept ion ill be sed by ome ent to orm ome ask , and ust be ned in rms nal for
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
hat ent and ask .
for his lem , the ity ion res hat the nal ept ion be bed in rms of the tes sed to ibe the ing ple ( e . g . , lor , ume , ity ) or in rms of a ted set of ily ted tes rom the ain ory ( e . g . , ess ) .
ing the oal ept in ese rms ill ake it era - nal ith ect to the ask of tly ing les of the
ven ese our uts , the ask is to ine a ion of the ing ple hat is a ent ept ion for the oal ept and hat ies the ity ion .
ote hat the ion of ity is ial for ion - sed ion : if the ity ion ere not ied , the put oal ept ion uld ays be a ect put ept ion and ere uld be ing to arn ! the ity ion ses a ire - ent hat ned ept ons ust be not nly ect , but lso in a ble orm ore ing is ete .
his nal ent is sed on the iew - int hat ept ons are not ned as cal ies , but her as cal ies to be sed by a lar ent for a lar ask .
123 the ebg hod
the ebg hod , ich is ned to ess the ove ass of ems , is de - ned as ows :
the ebg hod 123
ain : uct an ion in rms of the ain ory hat ves how
the ing ple ies the oal ept ion .
his ion ust be ted so hat ach nch of the ana - ion ure tes in an ion hat ies the ity
ize : ine a set of ent ons der ich the ion
ure lds , ted in rms hat sfy the ity ion .
his is hed by ing the oal ept ugh the ion ure .
the ion of the ing sed ons tes the red ept ion .
to see ore ely how the ebg hod rks , der ain the lem of ing the ept afe - to - ack ( x , y ) .
the tom of ure 123 ows a ing ple for his lem , bed in rms of a tic ork of ob - cts and ons .
in lar , the ple sts of two cal cts , obj 123
ure 123
ion of afe - to - ack ( 123 , 123 ) .
and 123 , in ich 123 is on 123 , and for ich ral res of the cts are bed ( e . g . , eir ers , ors ) .
ven his ing ple , the ask is to ine ich of its res are ele - ant to ing the oal ept , and ich are ant .
to his end , the rst tep of the ebg hod is to uct an ion of how the ing xam - ple ies the oal ept .
ice hat the ion tes a oof , and ing uch an ion ore may lve in ral the ies of rem ing .
the ion for the ing ple ted in the wer
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
ion of ure 123 is ven in the top ion of the ure .
as own ere , the air of cts 123 , 23> ies the oal ept afe - to - ack use 123 is ter han 123
ore , his is own use the hts of 123 and 123 can be red .
for 123 , the ght is red rom its ity and ume , eas for 123 the ght is red sed on a ule hat ies the ult ght of les in ral .
ugh his ain of ces , the ion ure tes how 123 and 123 sfy the oal ept ion .
ote hat the ion ruc - ure has een ted so hat ach of its hes tes in an ion hat ies the ity ion ( e . g . , ume ( 123 , 123 ) , ess ( . l , 123 ) ) .
in his way , the ion ure les out ose res of the ing ple hat are ant to ing the oal ept , and hat ide the sis for ing a ied ion of the ing ple .
for the ent ple , ese ele - ant ing ple res are own ded ver in the ure , and ond to the ion ume ( 123 , 123 ) a ity ( 123 , 123 ) a isa ( 123 ,
eas the rst tep of the ebg hod tes the ant res of the ain - ing ple , it oes not ine the red zed nts on ure ues .
for nce , ile the ure ume ( 123 , 123 ) is ant to ing how the ent ing ple ies the oal ept , the ral int on ble ues for ume is yet to be ned .
the ond tep of the ebg hod ore zes on ose ure ues ted by the rst tep , by ing ent ons on ese ure ues hat low ach tep in the ion ure to rry ugh .
in der to ine ral ent ons der ich the ion lds , the ond tep of the ebg hod ves ing ( ack ing ) the oal ept tep by tep ack ugh the ion ure .
in ral , ess - ing a ven ula f ugh a ule r is a ism for ing the ary and ent ( est ) ons der ich hat ule r can be sed to fer f .
we loy a tly ied ion of the oal - ion thm bed by ger ( 123 ) and son ( 123 ) . 123 our ied oal ion thm tes an ion hat nts nly a ent ion ( her han ary and ent ons ) der ich ule r can be sed to fer ula f , but hat nds ely to the ing ple der ion .
in par - lar , eas the ral oal ion thm ers all ble ble ngs ( ons ) der ich r can fer f , our ied thm ers nly the fic ble ngs sed in the ion of the ing ple .
ore , if the ule r ins a ive ent ( eft - and ide ) , hen our
123 tra ( 123 ) ces the ted ion of est ons in the ext of ing ram ess .
the est ons of a ram ize the set of all ial tes of hat ram uch hat ion ees a nal ate ing ome ion .
ure 123
ing rom the ion of afe - to - ack ( 123 , 123 ) .
( ned res - ons are the lts of ing the oal ept . )
thm ers nly the lar cts ied by the ing ple .
ure 123 tes the ond tep of the ebg hod in the ext of the afe - to - ack ple .
in the rst ( ost ) tep of his ure , the oal ept ex - ion afe - to - ack ( x , y ) is sed ugh the ule ter ( pi , 123 ) - afe - to - ack ( 123 , 123 ) , 123 to ine hat ter ( x , y ) is a ent ion for ing afe - to - ack ( x , y ) .
rly , ing ter ( x , y ) ugh the ext tep in the ion ure lds the ion ght ( x , wl ) a ght ( y , 123 ) a ess ( wl , 123 ) .
his ion is in urn sed ugh the nal eps of the ion ure to eld the nal ion for afe - to - ack ( x , y ) .
to ate the oal ion ess in ter ail , der the nal tep of ure 123 in ich the ion ght ( x , wl ) a ght ( y , 123 ) a ess ( wl , 123 ) is sed ugh the nal eps of the ion ure .
ach nct of the ion is sed ely ugh the ate ule , in the low - ing way .
the nct is ied ( hed ) ith the ent ( ght - and ide ) of
123 ice hat the ion of afe - to - ack ven in ble 123 is a ive ion .
as ted ove , the ure ers nly the nct hat is ied by the ent ing ple ( e . g . , the nct ing the ter ate ) .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
the ule to eld ome set of ons ( lar ble ngs ) .
the itu - ion ent ith the ple is hen ied to the ent ( eft - and ide ) of the ule to eld the ing sed ion . 123 any cts of the nal ion ich not be ied ith the ent of any ule are ply ded to the ing sed ion ( ith the ons ied to hem ) .
as il - ted in the ure , ing the nct ght ( x , wl ) ugh the ule ume ( 123 , vl ) a ity ( 123 , dl ) - ght ( 123 , *dl ) ore lds ume ( x , vl ) a ity ( x , dl ) .
ing the nct ght ( y , 123 ) ugh the ule isa ( 123 , ble ) - > ght ( 123 , 123 ) lds isa ( y , end - ble ) .
lly , nce no ule ent can be ied ith the nct ess ( wl , 123 ) , his nct is ply ded to the ing sed ion ter ing the ons ced by ing the her cts .
in his ase ese ons are ( x / pl , *dl / wl , y / 123 , 123 / 123 ) , ich eld the ird nct ess ( *dl , 123 ) .
the nal , nal ion for afe - to - ack ( x , y ) is
ume ( x , vl ) a ity ( x , dl ) a ess ( *dl , 123 ) a isa ( y , ble )
- afe - to - ack ( x , y )
his ion zes in nal rms the res of the ing ex - ple hat are ent for the ion ure to rry ugh in ral .
as uch , it nts a ied ion of the ing ple , for ich the ion ure ves as a ion .
ral ral nts ing the ebg hod are ted in the ove xam - ple .
the ain int of the ove ple is hat the ebg hod ces a ied ion rom a gle ing ple in a two - tep ess .
the rst tep tes an ion hat tes the ant ure ues in the les rom the ant nes .
the ond tep zes his ion to ine the par - lar nts on ese ure ues hat are ent for the ion ure to ply in ral .
hus , ion - sed ods uch as ebg ver - ome the ain ion of ity - sed ods : eir ity to uce ied ons .
his is hed by ing hat the ner has ble dge of the ain , the oal ept , and the ity
123 it is tly ved in ong ( 123 ) hat the ion ist sed to ess ons ugh ous eps in the ion ust be ied to the ent ion ore the ext ion tep .
ion , eas ity - sed ion oes not ely on any of ese
a ond int ted by the ove ple is hat the age in ich the nal ept ion is ted can be ite ich .
ice in the ove ple hat the nal ion des a int hat the uct of the ity and ume of x ust be ess han 123
ere are ery any uch ons ong the rts of the ing ple hat ght be red ing ion ( e . g . , why not der the act hat the ers of the two cts are of ent sex ? ) .
the ing int ere is hat the ate int was ved tly by ing the ion , out ing the rse of ble ons ong rts of the ing ple .
his is in ked ast ith ity - sed ion ods ( e . g .
ski , 23; lan , 123 ) .
uch ods are lly sed on a tic ing ion , uch as the tic hat ' ess lex res are red ver ore lex res for ter - ing pts ' .
ore , ore uch ods ill der the ure ess ( *dl , 123 ) as a ble sis for ion , hey ust rst der ast ers of lly ler , ant res .
a nal int ted by his ple is hat the nal ept ion pro - ced by ebg is lly a ion of the oal ept her han a ect ion of the ept .
his is ely due to the act hat the ion ruc - ure is ted for the ven ing ple , and oes not ain ery ble ple of the oal ept .
hus , the ion ced rom ing his ion ill nly ver les for ich the ion lds .
ore , use the ied oal ion thm tes nly ent ( not ary and ent ) ons der ich the ion lds , it ads to a her ion of the ept .
his ion of ion - sed ion sts an ing lem for her rch : ing ion - sed ods hat can ize ple ing les ( see the cus - ion in ion 123 ) .
her les and ons
his ion ses two nal les of ion - sed ion hat ave sly een ted in the ure .
the rst is ton , ord , atz , and wry ' s ( 123 ) rch on ing ral ons of pts uch as ' cup ' rom eir nal ons .
the ond is ell , ler , and off ' s ( 123 ) rch on ing rch ics rom les ( see lso off , 23; ler , 123 ) .
a mon ive on ese two ems is ded by ing the ebg hod for oth ems .
ces ong the two nal hes and the ebg hod are lso red , in der to ore ome ies of the ebg hod , and to est ome ble ons .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
123 an ple : ing the ept cup
in his ion we rst ize the ion of the ebg hod to a ond ple of an ion - sed ion lem : the cup ion lem , ned ter the ork of ton et al .
( 123 ) .
we hen uss the ela - hip een the ebg hod and the ogy ram of ton et al . , ich ses his ame lem .
the cup ion lem , ned in ble 123 , ves ing a ral ion of a cup rom its nal ion .
in lar , the oal ept ere is the ept cup , ned as the ass of cts hat are pen - els , ift - ble , and ble .
the ain ory des les hat ate ese ies to the ore ive ral ies of cal cts , uch as lat , han - dle , etc .
the ity ion res hat the put ept ion be ful for the ask of lly ing les of ups .
it hus res hat the put ept ion be sed in rms of its ral res .
ure 123 tes a ing ple ing a lar cup , 123 , ong ith the ion hat ows how 123 ies the oal ept cup .
in par - lar , the ion tes how 123 is ble , ble , and an pen - sel .
as in the afe - to - ack ple , his ion hes the ant res of the ing ple ( e . g . , its ess ) rom ant res ( e . g . , its lor ) .
the ond tep of the ebg hod , ing the oal ept ugh the ion ure , lts in the ing ral ion of the cup ept :
( art - of ( x , xc ) a isa ( xc , ity ) a is ( xc , ard - ing ) a art - of ( x , xb ) a isa ( xb , tom ) a is ( xb , lat ) a art - of ( x , xh ) a isa ( xh , dle ) a is ( x , ght ) ) - cup ( x )
ble the cup ion lem ter ton et al .
( 123 )
oal ept : ass of cts , x , uch hat cup ( x ) , ere
cup ( x ) * ble ( x )
art - of ( 123 , ity - 123 )
is ( x , ght ) a art - of ( x , y ) a isa ( y , dle ) - > ble ( x ) art - of ( x , y ) a isa ( y , tom ) a is ( y , lat ) - ble ( x ) art - of ( x , y ) a isa ( y , ity ) a is ( y , ard - ing - pen - sel ( x )
ity ion : ept ion ust be sed in rms of ral res sed
in ing les ( e . g . , ght , dle , lat , etc . ) .
a ion of ing ple hat is a ent ept ion for the oal ept and
hat ies the ity ion .
ure 123
ion of cup ( 123 ) .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
as in the rst ple , the ebg hod is ble to uce a lid ion rom a gle ing ple , by ing and ing how the ing ple ies the ion of the oal ept .
ice hat the ion tep in his ple is ite ard , and ads to ing the ing ple res ely by ing nts ith les ( i . e . , ing 123 by x ) .
it is ing hat ral ier pts at ion - sed ion ( e . g . , ell , 123 ) ved the ion hat the ion uld ays be zed ply by ing nts by les in the ion , out the eed to ess the oal ept ugh the ion ure . 123 as the ier afe - to - ack ple tes , his is not the ase .
in ral , one ust ess the oal ept ugh the ion ure to ure a lid ral - ion of the ing ple ( ich may lve ing rms rom ent rts of the ion , ing nts ere no ion is ble , and
ral ing res of his ple ome to ght hen the ebg hod is red to the hod sed in ton et al . ' s ( 123 ) ogy ram , pon ich his ple lem is sed .
the ost ing nce een the two ods is hat ugh ogy oes uct an ion , and lso ses his ion to ize rom a gle ple , the tem has no ain ory of the ind sed in the ove ple .
ead , ton ' s ram cts its ons by ing ies een the ing ple and a ary of ent ses ( e . g . , ted ons of ple ses , cks , wls , etc . ) .
for ple , ogy ins hat the lat tom of 123 ows obj 123 to be ble , by ing an ogy to a red ion of a ick ich has een ted ith the ion hat its lat tom ' ses ' it to be ble .
rly , it ies on an ted ple of a ase to ain by ogy why a dle ows 123 to be ble .
in ral , the nts sed by ogy are med to be ted by nks hat ate ich res of the ent unt for ich of its ies .
hus , for the ogy ram , the sal nks ted ver the ary of nts ute its ain ory .
ver , his ory is ely dif - ent han the ain ory sed in the cup ple ove : it is bed by ex - ion her han ion ( i . e . , by les her han by ral les ) , and is ore a ker ain ory .
use ogy ' s dge out ity is zed by a ion of ces of sal ons her han by ral les of ity , its ory not ead ely to ons out new sal
his ion is due in art to har van .
use its ain ory is eak , the ogy tem ses ome ing ons out ion - sed ion .
eas the afe - to - ack and cup les ove how how a ent set of ain ory les can pro - ide ful nce for ion , ogy sts how a ker , ex - nal ory ght be sed to cus the ion ess in a ker ion .
in lar , the sal nks are sed by ogy to uct a usi - ble ion , but not a oof , hat the ing ple ies the oal ept ion .
as sed ove , uch ble ons can ide ion by ing on bly ant res of the ing ple .
but nce ogy cks ral nce les to ize the nks in his ion , it not orm the ond ( oal ion ) tep in the ebg hod , and ore has no lid sis for ing the ion .
in act , the ogy ram zes way , tly , ing hat ach sal ink of the orm ( ure ( 123 ) - > rty ( 123 ) ) is ted by a ral ule of the orm ( ( vx ) ure ( x ) - rty ( x ) ) . 123 hus , ogy nts an ant tep in ing the use of a eak ain ory to ide ion , and lps to ate a ber of pen rch ues ( see the ion in ion 123 ) .
123 an ple : ing a rch tic
his ion nts a ird ple of an ion - sed ion lem - his one ing the ing of rch ics .
his ple is sed on the lem sed by the lex ram ( ell et al . , 123 ) ich rns rch rol ics for ing ems in the ral lus .
in lar , lex ins ith a set of gal ors ( ons ) for ing als ( e . g . , in - ion by rts , ing nts ide the and ) .
for ach uch tor , the tem rns a tic hat zes the ass of als ( lem tes ) for ich it is ful to ply hat tor .
for ple , one cal tic ned by the lex tem is :
if the ral is of the orm j ial ' - / / ? >< hen ply ion - by - rts
hus , for ach of its ven ors , lex ces a ion lem : ing the ass of als for ich hat tor is ful in ing a ion .
ble 123 nes the ion lem hat nds to ing hen it is ful to ply 123 ( ing nts ide the and ) .
ere the oal ept ful - 123 ( x ) bes the ass of lem tes ( als ) for ich 123 ill
123 ton ' s ( 123 ) own ork on ing ule ors can be wed as an mpt to ess ies
hat ise rom his cit ion .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
ble 123
the rch tic ion lem ter ell et at .
( 123 )
oal ept : the ass of ral ons hat can be ved by rst ing tor 123 ( ing a ant rom the and ) ; hat is , the ass of als , x , uch hat ful - 123
ful - 123 ( x ) not ( ved ( x ) ) a ble ( 123 ( x ) )
123 : f r any - >dx
- > r f any - >dx .
ing ple : f 23x 3dx
ble ( x ) ( 3op ) ( ved ( op ( x ) ) v ble ( op ( x ) ) ) hes ( x , ' f any - >dx ' ) - not ( ved ( x ) ) hes ( x , ' any - fn> ' ) - ved ( x ) hes ( op ( x ) , y ) hes ( x , ess ( y , op ) )
ity ion : ept ion ust be sed in a orm hat ses ily - com - res uch as ial - fn> ,
the lem ate , x , ( e . g . ,
ble res of < tal - fn > , any - fn> , r , k ) .
a ion of ing ple hat is a ent ept ion of the oal ept and
hat ies the ity ion .
be ful .
his is ned to be the ass of lem tes hat are not ady ved ( i . e . , aic ons hat ain an ral ign ) , and for ich ing 123 ads to a ble lem ate .
the ain ory in his ase ins les hat ate ved and ble to ble res of rob - lem tes ( e . g . , one ule tes hat if lem ate x hes the ion | < any ~ fn > dx , hen x is not a ved ate . ) .
ice hat ome of the ain ory les ute dge out rch and lem ing in ral ( e . g . , the ion of ble ) , ile her les ent dge fic to in - ral lus ( e . g . , hat the nce of an ral ign tes a ved ate ) .
the ity ion in his lem res hat the nal ept ion be ted in rms of ily - ble res of the ven lem ate .
his re - ent res hat the nal ept ion ill be in a orm hat its its ive use as a rch rol tic . 123 for the lex ram , the set of ily - ble res is bed by a ell - ned ion age ver lem tes hat des res ( e . g . , < ric - fn > , < eal - ant > ) ich lex can tly ize ing its hes ate .
123 if the ept ion ere ted to ude res hat are ult to ute ( e . g . , ble ) , hen the ing tic uld be so ive to ate hat its use uld ade , her han ove , the lem ver ' s nce .
ure 123 , ion of ful - 123 ( j 23x 3dx ) .
a ing ple for the oal ept ful - 123 is own in the tom por - ion of ure 123
in lar , the lem ate j 123 dx tes a ing xam - ple of a lem ate for ich ion of 123 is ful .
the ing ple bed in the ure is own ong ith the her lem tes ved in its
the ion of ful - 123 ( j 23x 3dx ) is own in the top ion of ure 123
the eft - and nch of his ion ure ads to a ode ich rts hat ful - 123 is ied in art use the ing ple ate is not ady a ved ate .
the ght - and nch of the ion ure ex - ins hat ing 123 to the ple ate ads to a ble lem ate .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
his is in urn ned by ing hat ing 123 to the ing ate pro - ces a ved lem , as ced by the act hat the ing ate hes the ion ' any - fn> ' ( i . e . , hat it ins no ral ign ) .
hus , up to his int ( ked as ( a ) in the ure ) , ach tep in the ght - and nch of the ion ure nds to ome tep ong the ion ath of the
by int ( a ) , the ion has ted hat one ant ure of the ing ple ate is hat the ult of ing 123 wed by 123 , is a ate hat hes ' any - fn> ' .
the ity ion res , ver , hat the ion be in rms of res of the gle ven ing ple ate , her han res of its ing ion ate .
hus , the der of the ion sts of ing his int in rms of the ing ple ate .
his is hed by ing the ast ule in the ain ory of ble 123
his ule " ows ack ing the ion ' any - fn> ' ugh the ral ini - ons of 123 and 123 , to ine the ent int on the ing ple ate .
the ing int is hat the ing ple ate ust tch the ion ' any - fn> f 123 - x 123 - 123 d x ' ( ere 123 and 123 and for two nct eal ers , ere 123 ust not be ual to - 123 ) .
his her ith the eft - and nch of the ion ure , ins ich res of f 3dx tee hat it ies the oal ept ful - 123
ven his ion ure , the ond tep of the ebg hod is ght - ard .
as in the cup ple , ing the oal ept ion ful - 123 ( x ) ugh the ion ure ely lts in ing the ing ple ate by a ble , so hat the ing ion ( ken rom the ves of the ion ree ) is :
ich ies to :
123 the ain ory ule hes ( op ( x ) , y ) hes ( x , ess ( y , op ) ) tes hat if the ult of ing tor op to ate x hes ome ion y , hen the ate x hes ome ion ich can be ted by ing the ion y ugh tor op .
ice hat the ion ere ves ing nts on lem tes ugh lem ing ors .
his is a ent ion tep rom the ond tep of the ebg ess , in ich the oal ept is sed ugh the ain ory les sed in the ion ure .
to ize , his ple tes ain the ral ebg hod of con - ing an ion in rms hat sfy the ity ion , hen ing the oal ept ugh the ion ure to ine a ied ion of the ing ple .
as in the ous les , his ess lts in a ion of the ing ple ich is a ent ion for ing the oal ept , and ich is ied in rms of the oal ept , ain ory , and ity ion .
in the ove ple , the oal ept nds to the ion for a rch tic hat is to be ned .
the ain ory ore ves oth ain - ent dge out rch ( e . g . , the ion of ble ) and ain - ent dge ( e . g . , how to ize a ved ral ) .
to use his hod to arn ics in a new ain , one uld ave to ace nly the ain - ent ion of the ory .
to arn a ent ype of tic in the ame ain , one uld ave the ain ory act , ing nly the ion of the ful - 123 oal ept gly .
for ple , as ted in ell ( 123 ) , the tem uld be ied to arn ics hat est nly eps ong the mum ost ion ath , by ing the oal ept to
ful - 123 ( s ) not ( ved ( s ) > a
min - ost - oln ( ion - ath ( 123 , s ) )
ote hat the ion ure in his ple , ike the ain ory , tes nto a ain - ent and a ain - ent ion .
ain - ent dge out rch is ied ove int ( a ) in ure 123 , and ain - ent dge out lus lem ing ors is ied low int ( a ) .
in the ion of the 123 ram ( ell , 123 ) , ese two ses of the ion ere red to be two ted ses and ere ted as ate res .
rom the ive ded by the ebg hod , ver , ese two ses are ter een as ent ons of the ame ion - ion tep .
one nal int ing the ent ple has to do ith the ity of ion - sed ods to ent eir ion age of pts .
in 123 , as in the afe - to - ack lem , his hod is ble to ate rly com - lex res of the ing ple hat are tly ted to the ion of how it ies the oal ept .
in the ext of the lex ect , off ( 123 ) ied his sue and ped the abb tem .
abb is ble to end the ial ary of rms sed by lex , by ing and ing rms hat cor - ond to the nts ved ing the ion tep .
for ple , in one nce abb ved the ion of odd ers ugh his ion tep , ing it as ' the set of eal ers , x , uch hat ing 123 hen ing by 123 ces an ger ' .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
123 . 123 ted ods for egy ing
ere are a ber of nal ems hat arn lem ing ies by ing gle les of ful ons . 123 ese ems ( e . g .
kes et al . , 23; off , 23; ton , 23; van , 123 ) , ich we ght all ips - ike ems , can all be wed as ems hat arn a oal ept of the ing orm : ' the set of lem tes uch hat ing a ven tor nce , os , lds a nal ate ing a ven ion rty , p . ' nce ese ems are ned to his gle oal ept , and are not ded to arn her rms of con - pts , hey lly do not ent the oal ept and ion ely .
ver , hey do ent the ion rty , p , tly , and ess his rop - rty ugh the tor nce os to ine an nal ion of the ( cit ) oal ept .
rom the ive of the ove lex ple , the eps hat hey orm ond to ing the ion of the ion low int ( a ) in ure 123
it is in ing ese eps of the ion hat lex ses its ion rty ' hes ( x , any - fn> ) ' ugh the tor nce < 123 , 123 > to ine the ent int on the ial lem ate .
ese ips - ike ems do not uct the ion of the ion cor - ing to the ion ove int ( a ) in ure 123
use hey are ned to a xed oal ept , hey do not eed to ate his ion of the ion tly for ach ing ple .
to ate his int , der ton ' s ( 123 ) ram for ing rch ics in two - son mes uch as go - oku , tic - tac - toe , and ess .
his ram zes one ive nce of a nce of ves hat ads to a ing ard ion , in der to ine an nal ion of the oal ept ' the ass of ard ons for ich the ven nce of ves ads to a ced win ' .
but ton ' s tem has no cit ion of his oal ept .
it has nly a ion of the ion rty p hat zes a ing osi - ion .
for ple , in the ame of go - oku , ( a ant of tic - tac - toe ) his ion rty zes a ing ard ion as ' a ard ion ith ive x ' s in a row ' .
his ion rty is sed by ton ' s ram ugh the tor nce for the ven ing ple .
in his way , the ram ter - nes hat an ive ion of its cit oal ept is ' ard ons hat ain ree x ' s , ith a ank ace on one ide , and two ank ces on the her ' .
123 see ler and ter ( 123 ) for a ful que of tic oal ion ods for ing rch rol ics .
hey uss ain nts for ion to eed : hat the ors be ble , and hat the ion age be ble to ess oal ion cts .
ive and rch ues
the ous ons ted a ral hod for ion - sed iza - ion , and ted its ion to ral ion sks .
his ion sum - zes ome ral nts ing ion - sed ion , and con - ers a ber of ing rch ues .
to ize , ion - sed ion zes a ain ory and dge of the oal ept to ide the ion ess .
by ing so , the hod is ble to uce a lid ion of the ing ple , ong ith an ion hat ves as a ion for the ion .
the ebg hod ced ere ies sms for ion - sed ion hat ave een sly ted for a ety of ask ins .
the ity of the ebg hod ems rom the act hat the oal ept , ain ory , and ity ion are ade cit uts to the hod , her han ted tly hin the hod .
123 ves on ion - sed ion
ral ves on ion - sed ion , and on the ebg hod in lar , are ful in ing eir ths and ses :
ebg as ory - ded ion of ing les .
ebg can be een as the ess of ing or ing a ven ing ple as a ber of the oal ept , sed on a ory of the ain .
way ' s ( 123 ) rly ork on ing ion ces in the ame of all res his int on ion .
his is the ive sed in the ove ons , and it hts the ity of the oal ept and ain ory .
it lso hts an ant ure of ebg : hat ing nds gly on hat the ner ady ows .
one nce of his is hat the ree of ion ced for a lar ing ple ill end gly on the ity ith ich the les in the ain ory are sed .
a ond nce is hat the ing tem can ove its ing nce to the ree hat it can arn new les for its ain ory .
ebg as ple - ded ion of the oal ept .
one can lso iew ebg as the ess of ing the oal ept in rms hat sfy the era - ity ion , ith the ain ory ing the ans for ing the oal ept .
ven his ive , one ers why ing les are re - red at all .
in ple , hey are not .
tow ' s ( 123 ) foo tem zes ral ice out how to lay the ard ame of rts , out ing fic les hat ply hat ice .
rly , ler ( 123 ) bes a ess of ept ion , by ich a nce of ons is ied to
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - 123
the oal ept in rch of a ion hat ies the ity ion , out the nce of fic ing les .
ver , ing les can be cal in ing the ner to der ele - ant ons of the oal ept .
for nce , der the cup ing ask as bed in ion 123 , ere a nal ion of cup is sed in ral rms for use by a ion tem ing ups .
a tem hat for - tes the nal ion of cup in ral rms , out the nce of ing les , nts to a tem for ing all ble ral ons for ses of ups ( i . e . , for ing all ble ses of ups ) .
nce ere are so any ble gns for ups , and nce so few of ese are lly red in the rld , the ing tem uld ily ste its ort ing ral ons ing to ups hat ill ver be een by the ion tem ! 123 ing les hus ide a ans of ing the ner on for - ing nly ept ons hat are ant to the ent in ich it
ebg as ing / ing / ing rom hat is ady own .
the ove aph sts hat ion - sed ion oes not ead to ing uly ' new ' dge , but nly les the ner to ate / ize / uce hat the ner ady ows tly .
ile his ate - ent is rue , it is hat ing .
der , for ple , the ask of ing to lay ess .
nce one is old the les of the ame ( e . g . , the gal ves , and how to ize a ate ) , one ows in ple ing ere is to now out ess - ven the mal egy for ing ess ows ely rom the les of the ame .
hus , ugh the ebg hod is ted to ing the ive ces of its ing ain ory , his ind of ing is ten ial ( as is the ase for ing ess ies ) .
ess , it is a ant ion hat ebg is hly ent pon its ain ory .
as sed low , her rch is ded to end the hod to ion sks in ich the ain ory is not ent to ely fer the red ept .
123 , 123 rch ues
123 . 123 ect ory ems
as the ove ion nts out , one ant ion of ebg is hat the
123 of rse ion out hat pes of ups are to be red by the ion tem lso uld be ted in the ity ion , nce his ion tes to the use of the ept ini - ion for the ion ask .
his ion , ver , may not be ily bed in the ive orm red by the ity ion .
ain ory is ent to ove hat the ing ple is a ber of the oal pt; hat is , hat the red ons low ely ( ven if ote - ly ) rom hat the ner ady ows .
ugh his ion is ied in ach of the ple ems ted ove , and ugh ere are ing do - ins in ich his ion is ied ( e . g . , ess , uit ign ( ell et al . , 123 ) ) , for the ity of eal - rld ing sks it is tic to ume hat the ner ins ith uch a ong ory .
for oth the afe - to - ack ain and the cup ain , it is asy to ine ore tic les for ich the re - red ain ory is ely lex , ult to ibe , or ply own .
for ion ems uch as ing ral les for ing the ock ket or the her , it is ear hat ble ies of ics and ogy are ent to uce ely ive les .
hus , a jor rch sue for ion - sed ion is to lop ods hat ize ect ain ies to ide ion , as ell as ods for ing ect ies as ing eds .
the lem of ing ith ect ies can be ken own nto ral ses of ems :
the ete ory lem .
the ock ket and her ion les ove oth ate the ete ory lem .
the sue ere is hat uch ies are not ete ugh to ove hat the ing ple is a ber of the oal ept ( e . g . , to ove why a lar ing ple ock has led ver a lve nth iod ) .
ver , ven an ete ory ght low con - ing ble ons ing ely nks een res of the ing ple and the oal ept .
for ple , ven a eak ory of ics ows one to est hat the ' ash on and ' of the any may be ele - ant to the oal ept ' cks hat ble ver a lve nth iod ' , eas the ' dle ial of the any ent ' is bly an ant ure .
hus , ete ies hat ain nly ion out ble use - ect ela - ons , ith nly ive her han ive ons , can ill ide im - ant nce in ing .
ods for ing and ing uch ete ies uld ute a jor tep ard in ing ion - sed
the ble ory lem .
a ond ass of ect ies des ose ich are ete , but for ich it is lly ive to uct ex - ons in rms of the ory .
for nce , tum ics tes a rly ete ory hat uld be ate for ing ons in the afe - to - ack lem - ing the ary ons in rms of tum ics is rly ble .
rly , ugh the les of ess con - ute a ain ory ent to ain why any ven ove is ood or bad , one uld ver use his ory to ain why the ing ove ' awn to ing our ' is a ber of the oal ept ' ves hat ead to a win or raw for ite ' .
in act ,
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
his ory of ess is ble for ing why rly any ove is ood or bad .
ans end to ond to his lem by ing ore act , ble ies hat are ons to the ing ble ory .
in ess , for ple , the ner ght ate a ore act ory hat des rox - ate ons uch as ' ere is no eat to the ing if it is ded by any dly ces ' ( lli , 123 ) .
uch ate , ted ies can be rac - ble ugh and ate ugh to rve as a ful sis for ing and ing rom ons .
ing ter ods hat can uct uch ted ies , and hat can dge hen hey can ely be ied , is a lem for her
the ent ory lem .
a ird lty ses in ies rom ich ent nts can be ved .
the ain ory in the afe - to - ack lem des one ple of uch a ory .
ile his ory has a ult ule for ing the ght of an end ble , it lso has a ule for ing hts rom the own ity and ume .
hus , the ory ill ude two ent hts for a ven end ble ded hat its ity and ume are own , and ded hat ese are ent ith the ult ion out its ght .
in uch ses , it is ble to uct ent ons for a gle ing xam - ple .
ore , if two ent ing les of the ame ept are ned in ent rms ( e . g . , by ing one ult ion for one ple , and ome her ons for the ond ple ) , ies ill cer - nly ise in ing the ing ons .
use of his , and use ult ons are ace in ies of any ins , the lem of ing ith ent ies and ent ons is lso an ant one for ure rch .
123 . 123 ing ion - sed and ity - sed ods
ile ebg ers ept ons ely rom a gle ple , ity - sed ods fer ept ons ely rom a ber of ing ex - les .
it ems rly ble to lop ned ods hat uld ize oth a ain ory and ple ing les to fer ept ons .
his ind of ned ach to ion ill bly be ial in do - ins ere nly ect ies are ble .
ugh few lts ave een ved in ing ion - sed and ity - sed ods , a ber of ers ave gun to der his sue .
itz ( itz , 123 ) is ing ods for ing ity - sed ods and ion - sed ods in his mem tem .
mem ex - nes a ase of the ing rds of ons , ing for cal , ity - sed ons ( e . g . , mid ern ons ote in vor of arm ies ) .
the tem hen pts to ify ese cal ons
by ing hem in rms of a ain ory ( e . g .
ing how ern con - ons sfy the oal ept ' ple who vor arm ies ' ) .
his ap - ach has the age hat the ity - sed ues can be sed to ate a ate set of ble ons rom a rge ber of lly isy ing les .
nce uch cal ons are ted , ion - sed ods can elp une and ine hem by ing her dge in the
eas itz ' s ach ves ing ity - sed ion wed by ion - sed ods , an ive ach is to rst ply ion - sed ods to ach ing ple , hen to ine the ing zed les ing a ity - sed ion que .
der , for ple , ing the ion ace 123 to ine the lts of ion - sed ons of a ber of ing les ( ell , 123 ) .
nce the ion - sed ion of a ive ing ple tes a ffi - ent ion for the oal ept , his can be sed as a zed ive xam - ple to ine ( ize ) the fic ary set of the ion ace .
rly , one uld ine ing ive ing les ing ion - sed ion , by ing why hey are not ers of the oal ept .
the ing zed ive ple uld hen be sed to ine ( ize ) the ral ary set of the ion ace .
hus , ile his ned hod ill suf - ers the ain age of ity - sed ods ( i . e . , it kes ive aps sed on its ion age , ich it not ify ) , it ges ore dly on a nal ept ion use it oys ebg to ize ach ain -
dar - lli ( 123 , 123 ) ses an ive hod for ing the lts of ion - sed ons rom ple ing les .
his hod , ose - ted ogy , ves ing an ion of one ex - ple by ogy ith an ion of a iar ple , hen ing the two ons to uce a ral ept ion sed on oth .
ven ana - ons for two ent les , the sed tem nes the ons as ows : mon ons of the two ons ain red in the com - ned ion .
ing ons her ome ive ons in the ned ion , or are zed to the ext ore fic mon ion in the ion .
for ple , ven an ion hat a lue , mic mug is a cup , and a ond ple of a ite oam cup , the ana - ion of the rst ple is sed to uct by ogy an ion for the
123 the ion ace hod ( ell , 123 ) is a ity - sed ion hod sed on sum - ing the ive ble ept ons by ing two ets : the ' fic ' set ins the set of ost fic ept ons ent ith the ved ata , and the ' ral ' set ins the ost ral ept ons ent ith the ata .
all her ble ept ons lie een ese two ets in the ral - to - fic ing ver ept ons .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
ond ple .
the two ing ons may fer in how hey ain hat the two ple ups are ble ( ume the rst ple cup is ble use it has a dle , eas the ond is ble use it is cal ) .
in his ase , a ion of the two ons uld ude a ion , hat her the cal ape , or a dle , kes it ble .
hat , ong ith the mon res of the two cts in the ned ion ure ads to the ion hat ups ude cts ich are ave up - ard , ave a lat tom , are ght , and ave her a cal ape or a dle .
ter - ely , the ned ion uld ain nly the ext ost - fic mon ion , ble , ich uld ead to a tly ore ral , yet ess nal , ion of a cup .
hus , his hod of ing ons of ple les des a led hod for ing ons ere ded nto the mon ion of the two les .
ree ods sed ove for ing ity - sed and ion - sed ion fer ing ges .
the rst hod ses ity - sed ion to ine cal ons ich may hen be ted and ned by ion - sed ods .
the ond hod in - ves ing a ity - sed hod to ine the lts of ion - sed ons rom ple les .
it ers the age hat his ion of ods ill ces ied ons .
the ird hod ges the ons of ple les in der to uce a ned ion hat is ied in rms of the ged ons .
ore rch is red on ese and her ble ods for ing ion - sed ods hen ple ing les are ble .
123 . 123 ing ion sks
the ove ion ses on rch ues hin the ork of ion - sed ion .
an lly ant set of rch ues has to do ith how uch ods for ion ill be sed as nts of ger ems hat ove eir nce at ome ven ask .
as our ing of ion ods ces , ons out how to uct nce ems hat ate ion sms ill ome gly
one key sue to der in his ard is how ion sks are lly for - ted .
in her rds , ere do the uts to the ebg hod ( the oal ept , the ain ory , the ity ion ) ome rom ? is it ble to ild a tem hat lly tes its own ion sks and ese uts ? is it ble to ild ing ems hat lly ift eir cus of ion rom one ing lem to the ext as red ? hat ind of dge ust be ted een the nce tem and the ing tem to ble the tic ion of ion sks ?
ain , tle ork has een ted to ese ues .
the oar tem ( ird et al . , 123 , ird et al . , 123 ) is one ple of a ing tem hat tes its own ion sks .
ach ime hat oar ers and ves a oal , it tes the ion lem of ing the ral ons der ich it can use the ion to his oal .
oar hen zes a que ely ted to ion - sed ion , led cit ion ( ird et al . , 123 ) , to fer ese oal ons .
a ond rch ort ich nts the lem of ing ing sks is ler ' s rch on ual ing ( ler , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in his ork , ler sts how a lem ing tem uld ion ems uch as ose sed by the 123 tem .
in lar , he ows how the ask of ing the oal ept ful - 123 ses as a oal in the ess of ing to ove nce at ing lus ems .
by ing rom a top - vel oal of ing the ncy of the lem ver , as ell as a ive ion of the lem ing rch ema , the hod ves the oal of ing a ter to une the rch ves hat it ers .
the ion of his ter des the ion hat it is to low nly lem ing eps hat are ' ful ' ( i . e . , hat ead ard ons ) .
the oal of ing his ter ads , in urn , to the lem of ing the ion of ' ful ' ( i . e . , to the oal ing to the 123 ion ask ) .
ent ork by dar - lli ( 123 ) lso ses the lem of ing ing sks .
in his ork , dar - lli ses a tem to lly for - ate ons of oal pts in the ain of cts .
in lar , the sed tem ves nal ons of cts ( e . g . , cup ) rom for - ion out the ose for ich nts use hem ( e . g . , to sfy eir rst ) .
ven two ent ses for ich an ent ght use a cup ( e . g . , as an rna - ent , sus to sfy rst ) , two ent nal ons can be ved . 123 to ive the nal ion of the act , the sed tem rst tes a lan of ons hat ads to ing the ent ' s oal .
for ple , if the ent ' s oal is to sfy rst , hen his lan ght be to our the ids nto the cup , asp the cup ith the uid in der to ift , and lly ink the ids .
in der to be sed as art of his lan , the act ust sfy the ons of ose lan ons in ich it is ved .
ese ons orm the nal ion of a cup : an pen - sel , ich is ble , ble , ble .
hus , for - ing nal ons of cts is hed by ing the ole hat the act ays in ing the oal of ome ent .
123 his nds ton ' s ork ( see ion 123 ) , in hat it can ive its own oal ept rom a ven
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
123 . 123 ing ual dge to lve the ion ask
ove we ave sed ome hes to lly ing ing sks , ven dge of the nce ask for ich the ing kes ace .
in ses ere the ner tes its own ing ask , ion out how and why the ask was ted can ide ant nce in ing the ing ask .
ler ' s ( 123 ) lex tem des an ple of how uch ion can be sed in ing ing .
ike 123 , lex ses the ing ask of ing the oal ept ful - 123
it kes as put a ral ion of the nce ask to be ved ( the lus lem ver ) , a ion of the nce ves to be ved ( ' ize lem ing ime ' ) and dge of the nce lan ( rch ace ing via ing ) , ich is a ord of how the iza - ion ask was lly ted .
lex ses his nal dge out the ext in ich its ing ask was ted to ide its rch for an nal ion of the oal ept .
lly , it tes the lus lem ver ing the ial ( and ent ary ) ons of the oal ept to ect tic ion ich ids in ing the oal ept if nce ves are not ied .
in ect , the nce ask and nce ive uts red by lex ate on the ity ion red by the ebg hod .
ead of ing ity in rms of a ary - ued ate ver con - ept ons ( as in ebg ) , lex tes the ree of ity of the ept ion in ion to the nce ask and ive .
his ity to ake a ore ted sis of ity les lex to ake ant ons ong ive ept ons .
for ple , use lex ses ing ( non uth - ing ) rms to ify the oal ept , it can ate ept ons hat nly ate the oal con - ept .
in uch ses , lex is ble to ine her uch an ate ept ion is ble sed on the ree to ich it lps ove the per -
as the rst ons of his per ate , ion - sed ion ods fer ant ise in pts to ild ter els of ing ems .
ant ess has een ade in ing ion - sed ion , lly for ems in ich the ner ses a ete and ect ory .
as the nal ion tes , uch ore ins to be red out how a ner can use hat it ady ows to ide the ion of new
the ive on ion - sed ion ted ere has sen rom ons ver a iod of ime ith a ber of ple in the ine ing oup at ers and ere .
ons ith the ing ple ave een rly ful in ing the eas ted ere : lex ida , rry ong , mas ich , ome rty , har van , ack tow , ael ims , sad lli , aul off , and ith son .
we lso ank the ing ple for ing ful nts on an ier aft of his per : pat ley , har van , ack tow , uis erg , sad lli , and ith son .
his ial is sed on ork ted by the nse ced rch pro - cts ncy der rch act 123 - 123 - k - 123 , by the nal nce ion der nts 123 - 123 and 123 - 123 , by the nal tes of lth der ant rr - 123 , by gte der ant 123 , and by a ers ity ate hip .
the ews and ons ned in his ocu - ent are ose of the ors and uld not be ted as ily ent - ing the ial ews or ies of ese ors .
the dix bes ong ' s rch on ion - sed ion .
in lar , it sts the ork on ing ata for ory ing in rms of the ebg hod .
in ion to his ect , ere has een a eat eal of ent rch on ion - sed ion , ing ( ong , 23; man , 23; ney , 23; o ' rke , 23; ney , 23; ley , 23; gre , 23; lik , 23; ims , 23; abe , 23; son , 123 ) .
ong ( 123 , 123 ) ped one of the est ful ion - sed ion ems as art of his rch on ory ema ion .
ong is ted in the lem of ing ata for use in ral age ory ing .
ong ' s tem kes as put an ple ory and ces as put a zed ema ing the cal ion nce hat is ted in the ory .
for ple , the tem can ess the ing ory ( ted rom g .
ong , nal ion , ber 123 , 123 ) :
red is ary ' s her .
red is ich .
ary ars lue ans .
ohn hed ary .
he ted a gun at her .
he old her to get nto his car .
ohn ove ary to the tel .
he ked her in his oom .
ohn led red .
he old red he had ary .
he sed not to arm her if red ave him 123 , 123 at eno ' s ant .
red red the ney .
ary ved ome in a axi .
ell , r . m .
ler and s . t .
dar - lli
it hen ces as put a zed ema for ing .
the ing ema ins nly the ant ils of the ing ( e . g . , hat ree ple are ved : son a who nts ney , son b who has ney and son c who is ued by son b ) , but one of the ant ils ( e . g . , hat son c ars lue ans ) .
ong ' s tem ses a ion hod hat ely els the ebg hod .
ugh ere is no ect art to the oal ept in ong ' s tem , the oal ept can be ght of as ' the ass of ion ces hat eve nal oal x for tor y . ' for the ing ory , the tor ' s nal oal is ' ent of lth . ' the tem cts an ion for how the ons in the ory ead to the per ' s ' ent of lth ' as a by - uct of the ory - ing ess .
ing the ory rse , ata ncy nks are ted to ect ons in the ory ith the nce les hat are sed by the ser in ing the ons .
the set of nce les tes a ain ory for ong ' s tem , and des dge out the als and ans of man ors , as ell as sal dge sed to set up and ify ons for ure ons .
the ork of all the ata ncy nks ted ing the ory rse is led an nce ion ork , and nds to an ion for the ion nce .
ion of the nce ion ork is ied out by ing ral ies for the fic cts and nts ced in the ork .
as ith the ebg hod , the ies in the nce ion ork are zed as far as ble ile ing the ess of the ata ncy nks . 123 hen a new ema is ted rom the ork .
the sue of ity ers nto the ess of ing an ate vel of ion for the ema ted rom the ork .
uld , for ple , a zed ema be ted to ibe the ing ion nce or the ore ral ion ces ing ing - for - ney or ing - for - lth ? all of ese ata ain the ons in the ple ory .
ong tes ral ria to use in ing the vel of ion at ich to pre - ent the new ema ( ong , 123 ) .
the ria ude uch ons as : 123 ) ill the zed ema be ful in ing ies in the ure , or oes the ema ize an ent hat is ely to cur ? 123 ) are the ons for ema ion nly ble ? 123 ) ill the new ema ent a ore ent hod of ing nal als han ing ata ? ote hat ese ema ion ria hly ond to the ion ria sed in the ebg hod .
use the zed ata are tly sed for a ory - ing ask , the ity ria ain to hat ask .
123 it is ear her the tem ses its ent of the oal ept ugh the nce
ble 123
the lth ion ema ion lem : ing out ays to eve lth
* oal ept : the ass of ion ces ( i . e . , a ral ema ) by ich tor x can eve
lth - ion - ion - nce al , 123 , .
. , an> , x )
not ( thy ( x , 123 ) ) a thy ( x , ute ( x , <al , 123 , .
. , an> , 123 ) )
<al , 123 , .
, an> is an ion ce; x is the or; 123 is the tor ' s ent te; and exe - ute ( a , b , c ) rns the ate ing rom the ion of ion nce b by tor a in ate
ing ple : the ing ory :
her - of ( red , ary ) a thy ( red )
a ate ( ohn ) a ars ( ary , lue - ans ) a hes ( ohn , ary , 123 ) a nts - gun - at ( ohn , ary , 123 )
a ges ( red , ohn , 123 , ary , 123 )
ain ory : les out man ion , and dge out man als , ons ,
her - of ( son 123 , 123 ) - ves ( son 123 , son 123 ) a ues ( son 123 , 123 )
thy ( son ) - > has ( son , 123 ) ges ( son 123 , 123 , ect 123 , 123 )
not ( has ( 123 , ctl ) ) a ues ( onl , 123 ) a not ( has ( 123 , 123 ) ) a ues ( 123 , 123 ) a has ( onl , 123 ) a has ( 123 , ctl )
ity ion : red ion ( i . e . , the zed ema ) ust sfy the re -
nts for ure ess in ory - ing ( see ext ) .
a ion of ing ple ( i . e . , a zed ema ) hat is a ent ept ini - ion for the oal ept ( i . e . , hat is a ion of the lth ion ema ) and hat ies the ity ion .
ble 123 zes the ion - sed ion lem sed by
the ory ema ion rch .
