his ent has een ved
for lic ase and le; its ion is ted .
ost rch on ine ing has sed on ios in ich a ner ces a gle , ted ing ask .
the ong ing ork mes ead hat the ner ers a ude of ted ing sks ver its ime , ing the ity for the fer of his per ies ong ing in the ext of ary ion .
it nts the nce ach , in ich dge is red via a ned del of the ces of the ain .
lts on ing to ize cts rom lor ges ate ior ion ies if ces are ned and sed to ias ' ent ing .
his rch is red in art by the nal nce ion der ard iri - 123 , and by the ght ory , cal ems ter , air rce iel and , saf , and the ced rch cts ncy ( rpa ) der ant ber 123 - 123 - 123 - 123
ews and ons ned in his ent are ose of the ors and uld not be ted as ily ing ial ies or nts , her sed or ied , of nsf , ght ory or the ted tes ent .
rds : ion - sed ral ork ing , ing ces , ong ing ,
ine ing , ral rks , ect ion
ard ive sed ing is ned ith ing an own get ion rom a ite ion of ing ata .
the ork of sed ing can be zed as ows .
let f ote the set of all ial get ons .
for ple , in a bot arm ain f ght be the set of all tic ons for ots ith ree nts .
it is nly med hat all ons in f are ned ver a gle put ace , ted by i , and a gle put ace , ted by 123
the ner has a set of ses hat it can der , ted by h , ich ght or ght not be ent rom f .
for ple , the set h uld be the set of all ial ral rks ith 123 den its ( art et al . , 123 , or , ely , the set of all ion ees ith pth ess han 123 ( lan , 123
out his per , let us ake the ing ion hat all ons in f are ary ers , by ing the put to 123 = ( 123 , 123 ) .
we ill fer to ces hat all nto ass i as ive ces , and to ose hat all nto ass 123 as ive ces .
to arn an own get ion f* e f , the ner is ven a ite ion of put -
put les ( ing les )
ich are bly ted by ise .
the oal of the ner is to ate a sis h e h , uch hat the ion
e = e rob ( i ) ! lf* ( i ) - h ( i ) 123
een the get ion f* and h on ure les ill be as all as ble .
ere rob ( i ) is the ity ion ing to ich the les are ted .
rob is lly own to the ner , as is f* .
ard sed ing ses on ing a gle get ion f* , and ing ata is med to be ble nly for his one ion .
ver , if ons in f are tly ted , it can be ful to ave ess to ing les of her ons f in f as ell .
for ple , der a bot ose ask is to ind and tch ous cts , ing its era for ect ion .
ere let f be the set of ion ons for all cts , one for ach ial get ect , and the get ion f* e f nds to ome ect the bot ust tly arn to ize .
x , the ing set , ill ist of ive and ive les of his ect .
the ask of the ner is to ind an h ich zes e .
in der to do so , the bot ust arn to ize the get ect ant of ion , ion , ing in ize , nge of ing and so on .
rly , the ore und the ner ' s ial ing of ese ces , the wer ing les in x it ill ire for ble ing .
use ese ces are mon to all ons in f , ges ing her cts can ide nal ion for ing out ese ces , and nce ent the ing set x .
his ple tes the ong ing ork ( run and ell , 123
ong ing , a ion of ted ing ems is red ver the ime of the tem .
hen ing the n - th ask , the ner may ore loy dge red in the
" * a ace of ble ses h " * a set of ing les x of ome own get ion f* e f , awn
ith ity ion rob .
" * in ong ing : a ion of ort ets y = ( xk ) , ich ize
her ons fk e f
a sis h e h hat zes 123 rob ( i ) if* ( i ) - h ( i ) ii
ble 123 : ard sed ing and ong sed ing .
ous n - 123 sks to ove its nce .
his per ers a lar orm of ong ing in ich the ing sks ond to ing ean ons ( pts ) , and in ich the ous nce sts of ing les of her ion ons rom the ame ily f .
ore lly , in ion to the set of ing les x for the get ion f * , the ner is lso ded ets of les
xk = ( ( i , gk ( i ) ) )
( k = 123 , . . . , igi )
of her ons g = ( g , , 123 , . . . ) c f ken rom the ame ion ily f .
nce his nal ata rts ing f* , we all all ach xk a ort set for x .
the set of all ble ort ets , ( xi , : k = i , . . . , gij , is ted by y .
ice hat the ort ets xk are not ily ted ing to the ame ity ion .
ble i zes the lem ons of ard sed ing and the ong sed ing lem red ere .
in ong ing , the ner is ven a ion of ort ets y in ion to the ing set x and the sis ace y .
ort ets can be ned for a ety of eal - rld ing sks .
for ple , der a nal ter ant ose ask it is to ize its ser ' s ing .
f is the set of all ngs rom and - awn ves to ter els , one for ach ial ser .
for ach ser , i . e . , for ach f e f , the ant uld art ing to ize ing rom tch .
ver , any ics ill co - cur for ple ers , and one uld ect a ner ich tes les rom her ers to ize ter .
a ond ple , to ich ive ine ing ues ave tly een ied , is ock ket ion .
ile any of the ful ues in his ain ain hed , it ems to be ell - ted hat cks can be ted ter by ing rom ata ing ire ies of cks , her han ing out a gle ock in ion .
rly , ain rns can be und hat ply to ous cks , and ing out ese ies hen ing ata is ted ill ost ely ove the ion acy of a ing tem .
the ong ing ork ied in his per ers rom ard sed ing in hat in ion to the ing ata x , ort ets y are lso ded .
his ses two
how can a ner use ort ets to ize ore ely ?
der hat ons ill a ner fit rom ort ets ? sly , the ore ely ted the ons in f , the ter .
but tly hat ion ong ese ons is red in der for ort ets to be ful ? hat ens if the ons in f are not ted at all ? can ort ets ead ion and , if so , der hat ons ?
his per oes not ide ral ers to ese ons .
ead , it ses one lar ach , ely ing nce ons , ich ies on ain ons on the ion set f .
it lso nts cal nce hat his ach to ing ort ets can tly ove ion acy hen ing to ize cts sed on ual
123 the nce ach
the nce ach rst rns an nce ion o rom the ort ets in y .
his ion is hen sed to ias the ner as it cts a sis to fit the ing les x of the get ion .
let y = ( xk ) be a ion of ort ets for ing f* rom x .
all our ion hat all ons in f ave ary put ues .
nce , ach ple in a ort set is her ive ( i . e . , put 123 ) or ive ( i . e . , put 123 ) .
der a get ion , fk e f ith k e ( i . . . , jfj ) , and a air of les , say i e i ndj e i .
a cal nce tor " rk : i x i - -
( 123 , 123 ) is a ing rom a air of put ors ned as ows :
if a ( i ) = fk ( j ) = i if fk ( i ) # a ( j ) if fk ( i ) = fk ( j ) 123
lly , the cal nce tor tes her oth ces are ers of ass i ( ive les ) ive to fk .
if rk ( i , j ) = 123 , hen fk is ant ith ect to i and j .
ice hat ive and ive ces are not ted lly in r .
the cal nce ors rk ( k = i , . . . , ifi ) ine a ( bal ) nce ion for f , ( 123 , 123 ) .
for two les , i and j , ao ( i , j ) is 123 if ere sts a k for
ted by a : i x i ich rk ( i , j ) = 123
ise , a ( i , j ) is 123 if ere sts a k for ich rk ( i , j ) = 123 :
if 23k e l , . . . , ifi ) ith tk ( i , j ) = 123 3ke ( , . . . .
jfj ) hrk ( i , j ) 123
the nce ion ves ike an nce tor , but it oes not end on k .
it is ant to ice hat the nce ion can be ill - ned .
his is the ase if ere ist two les ich in one get ion oth ong to ass 123 , eas in her hey all nto
23i , j e i , k , k ' e ( 123 , . . . , ifi ) : rk ( i , j ) = i a tk , ( i , j ) = 123
in uch ses the nce ing is ous and is not ven a cal ion .
a ass of ons f is aid to bey the nce rty if its nce ion is non - ous ' .
the nce rty is a ral ion for the nce ach to ong ion ing .
the ept of nce ons is ite ful .
ume f lds the nce rty .
if a is own , ery ing nce i for an ary ion fk e f can be tly ied , ven ere is at ast one ive nce of fk ble .
to see , ume ipo , e i is own to be a ive nce for fk .
hen for any nce i e i , a ( i , izo ) ill be 123 if and nly if fk ( i ) = 123
ugh the nce rty ses a ion on the ion ily f , it lds rue for ite a few eal - rld ems .
for ple , a ion ily eys the nce rty if all ive ses ( of all ons fk ) are int .
one uch ion ily is the ily of ect ion ons ned ver nct cts .
123 ing ith nts
in the ong ing ime ied in his per , a - is not ven .
ver , an ion to o - can be ned .
nce ao oes not end pon the fic get ion f* , ery ort set xk e y can be sed to ain a ' , as ong as ere is at ast one ive nce ble in xk .
for all k e ( i , . . . , gil ) , ing les for a " are ted rom les i , j e xk :
ere rk ust be ned , i . e . , at ast one of the les i and j ust be ive der fk .
in the nts bed low , ao is ted by ing an ial ral ork ing the ion thm ( art et al . , 123
nce o , has een ned , one way to mic f* is to ick an ary ive ing nce in x , and to use o " for ion , as bed ove .
ver , ao ght not be ate ugh to ify tly , lly use of ing ons , ise , or ack of ing ata .
in act , the tal lts bed in the ext ion ate hat ere are ter ays to loy the nce ork .
123 ing pes to ide ion
the der of his ion bes an ive ach ich oys a rid ral ork ing thm for ing f* .
his thm is a ial ase of oth the ent - ' it is lly ble for the nce ion to be ous , as ong as the ood for ing
sly ied irs of les is ero .
ure 123 : ing ues and pes : let f* be the get ion for ich ree les ( x 123 , f* ( 123 ) ) , ( 123 , 3f* ( 123 ) ) , and ( x 123 , f* ( x 123 ) ) are own .
sed on ese nts the ner ght ate the sis hi .
if the pes are lso own , the ner can do uch ter : h , .
rop thm ( ard et al . , 123 and the ion - sed ral ork ing ( bnn ) thm ( ell and run , 123
ere we ill fer to it as bnn .
ose we are ven a ing set x , and an nce ork a ich has een ned ing a ion of ort ets y .
we are now ted in ing f* .
one uld , of rse , ore the nce ork and the ort ets her and ain a ral ork ely sed on the ing ata x .
the ing set x ses a ion of nts on the put ues for the sis h .
if h is ted by an ial ral ork , as is the ase in the nts ted low , the ion ( bp ) thm can be sed to fit x .
bnn oes his , but it lso ves nal nts ing the nce ork .
ore ely , in ion to the lue nts in x , bnn ves nts on the pes ( nts ) for the sis h .
to see how his is one , der a ing ple i , ken rom the ing set x .
let ip , be an ary ive ple in x .
hen , o ( i , ipo ) nes ner i and iz ' s ong to the ame ass - ion hat is ily ble , nce we are ven the ses of i and ip .
ver , ing the ass ing the nce ork lso ows us to ine the put - put pes of the nce ork .
ese pes ure the ity of ass hip ith ect to the put res in i .
his is one by ing the ial ive of a ith ect to i at ( i , pos ) :
jio ( i )
" - - 123 123 ( , i p
via ( i ) res how mal ges in i ill ect the ion of i .
nce ar ( - , ip , ) is an ion to f* , via ( i ) tes the ope vif ( i ) .
tly , ead of ing ing les of the ype ( i , f ( i ) ) , bnn its ing les of the ype
ent ent can be sed to fit ing les of his ype , as ned in ( ard et al . , 123
123 tes the ity of his nal ope ion in ion ing .
ice if ple ive ces are ble in x , pes can be ved for ach one of
let pos c x be the set of ive ing les in x .
let x ' = 123
for ach ing ple ( i , f* ( 23i ) ) e xpo do :
( a ) ute via ( i ) =x 23a ( i ) ( i
sii , e pra
( b ) etx ' = x ' + ( i , f* ' ( i ) , vza ( i ) )
fit x ' .
s ) ing the nce ork a .
ble 123 : ion of bnn to ing ith nce rks .
in his ase , ged pes are sed to ain the get ion :
r ( i , i ( cid : 123 ) ~ ) ( |
ere xp c x tes the set of ive les in x .
the ion of the bnn thm to ing ith nce rks is zed in ble 123
lly ing , ope ion ted rom the nce ork is a ear ap - ion to the ces and ces of f at a fic int in l .
ong the ant ons pes ill be ely ero , ile ong ers hey ill be rge .
for ple , in the ect ion ain bed ove , it ght pen hat lor is an ant ure for ion ile ess is not .
his is lly the ase in ons ith ing ion .
in his ase , the nce ork uld arn to ore ess , and nce the pes of its ion ith ect to ess uld be ely ero .
the pes for lor , ver , uld be rge , ven hat ght lor ges ply hat the ect uld ong to a ent ass .
hen ing the ion ork , pes ide nal ion out the ity of the get ion ith ect to its put res .
nce , the nce ork can be aid to ias the ing of the ion ork .
ver , nce bnn ins on oth pes and ues sly , ors in his ias ( ect pes due to ons in the ned nce ork ) can be ned by the ved ing ple ues in x .
123 ect ion
to ate the nce ork in a eal - rld ain , we ted a ase of 123 lor era ges of ven ent cts , as ted in fig .
123 ( eft mns ) .
lue and ite
mer own and ack ium ing on ive
the cts ere sen so as tc ide lor and ize ues ful to eir ion .
the und of all ges ted of ain , ite ard .
ent ges of the ame ect ied by the ive ion and ion of the ect hin the age .
in 23% of all ngs , the ion of the ght rce was lso ged , ing ght ons at dom ons in ous ses .
in ome of the ges the cts ere ack - lit , in ich ase hey red to be ack .
123 ows les of two of the cts , the hoe and the ses .
123 ges of ach ect ere ded .
in all our nts ges ere ded by a 123 - nal tor , ing lor , ess and ion ion for a own - led age of ize 123 by 123
les for the own - led ges are own in res 123 ( ght mns ) and 123
ugh ach ect ars to be asy to ize rom the nal age , in any ses we und it ult to lly ify cts rom the led ges .
ver , ing was ary to eep the rks at a ble ize .
the set of get ons , f , was the set of ons hat ize cts , one for ach ect .
for ple , the tor ion for the tle , bol . , was i , if the age wed a tle , and 123 ise .
nce we nly ted nct cts , all ets of ive ces ere int .
tly , f yed the nce rty .
the set of ses h was the set of all ial ral rks ith 123 put its , 123 den its , and i put nit , as uch a ork was yed to ent the get ion .
the ive was to arn to ize oes , i . e . , f* = sho .
ive her cts , ely the tle , the hat , the mer , the can and the ook , ere sed to uct the ort ets v .
in der to oid any lap in the ing set x and the ort ets in y , we ely sed res of a nth ect , ses , as les for aho .
123 ing the nce ork
ach of the ive ort ets in y , nle , xh . , , xh . mme , xya , and xok , ned 123 ges of the ing ect ( ive les ) and 123 mly ted ges of her cts ( ive les ) .
hen ing ing les for the nce ork , we mly ted a set of 123 , 123 irs of ges , 123 of ich ere ing for ing and 123 for oss - ion .
23% of the nal ing and oss - ion les ere ive les for the nce ork ( i . e . , oth ges wed the ame ect ) , and the her 23% ere ive les .
ure 123 : cts ( eft ) and ing ork uts ( ght ) .
a red ges of a tle .
a hat , a mer , a oke can , and a ook ere sed to ain and est the nce ork .
rds , the ion ork was ned to ish the hoe rom the ses .
in ral pts to uct an nce ork , ing a ety of ork ies ith up to two den ers , we ved a mum ion acy of 23% .
his ult was hat ory , nce dom ing , by son , lts in 23% ac - acy .
hen ied to the two ing een cts , the hoe and the ses , the est nce ork ied nly 23% of all age irs tly .
in der to ove ese lts , we ied a ing que hat ses ing by ing nal ing ion , ted rom rth and ien , 123
( ana , 123
eir que sts on the ion hat in ion to the ! ing ask of est , ome ted ing sks , ing the ame put ion and the ame ing ata ( ith ent get ues ) , are ble .
ead of ing on a gle ask , a ork is
ure 123 : ges , ong ith the ing ork uts , of the cts hoe and ses .
ese les ate ome of the ces in the ect ion ain .
ned on all sks sly , ing an ted put yer hat des nal put its for the nal sks .
his que , ich is led " ing by nts " or " lti - ask ing , " has een und to eld ter ion ies , ich can be ted to the act hat all of ese sks are the ame den its .
if sks are tly ted , it ows ter den ons to be ped , ing in ved ion .
in act , his ach hes an ive hod for the ong ing lem , as sed in ect .
in the ect ion ain , a ask hat is sly ted to ing her or not two ges ong to the ame ass is the ask of lly ing the two ges .
nce , we ded two ets of 123 put its to the nce ork , ich ere ned to ine the ion of the ect own in her age .
a cal i - of - n ing was sed to ode the 123 ent ect ses .
nce , the ted nce ork had i i put its , one for ing if the two ges are the ame or not and 123 for ing ges .
the ter 123 its , ver , ere sed ely ing ing the nce ork , and did not lay any art in tly ing the nce ork .
the ion acy of his ork was tly ter han the acy of the gle put ork ted ove .
ter ing , the ted ork ged to ine her or not two cts ong to the ame ass ith 23% ion acy .
it lso ted 23% ion acy in
the new ask , the ion of the hoe .
sly , oth acy tes are tly ter
han ose ved ing the gle put ork .
123 ing to ize oes
ing ned the nce ork , we ere now ted in ing the ion ork .
the ork sed out the nts ted ere ted of 123 put its , 123 den its , and i put nit - no ort was ade to ize the ork ogy .
a tal of 123 les of ges ing the hoe and the ses ere ble for ing and ing the hoe ion ork .
the ral ion ing the nce ach is to hat ent the nce ork , hen sed to ias the get ion , ves the ion acy of the ion
in der to ate the ole of the nce ork , we ned the ion ork ing nly two ing les : a mly ted age of the hoe ( ive ple ) , and a mly ted age of the ses ( ive ple ) .
pes ere ted ing the sly ned nce ork .
nce the les to the get ept , the ses , orm a que ass of ges hat do not lap ith any her ive ass rom the ort ets , pes uld lso be ved ing ive les .
ead of ing eq .
( i ) , pes ere ted rom the nce net ing the ded ure :
123 i pn
ere xt , , c x is the set of ive les in x , and x , .
= x - x . o is the set of ive les .
( 123 ) ers rom eq .
( 123 ) by ing lso ive les 123 , , s nto unt , ich is ied by the act hat ges of ses orm a ass int rom all her cts .
123 ows the age ion rve as a ion of ing chs ith and out the nce ork .
the ion acy ere was red ver all 123 ble ges .
the rve ows the ion acy ged ver 123 nts , ach ned ing one mly ted ive and one mly ted ive ple . 123 out ing the nce ach , the age ion acy ter 123 , 123 ing chs is 23% .
ver , ing bnn ith the nce ork ses acy to 23% due to the ion yed by the nce pes .
his nce can be sed in ple ays .
in rms of ual ror , ion its a ion ate hat is 23% ger han hat of bnn .
a ond ion is to ook at the nce ase .
ich is ned as the nce in ion acy ter ing and ore ing , ing hat the acy ore ing is 23% .
123 : nn ' s nce ase is 23% , ich is 123 mes ter han ion ' s 23% .
for ple , if a ral ork is ned ing the two ges of a hoe and the ses ted in fig .
123 , ain ion ies nly 23% of the ing ges tly .
ote we sed a ast ing hod hat ted the unt of tum on - ine ing ing .
ure 123 : ing ves , ith ( lid ine ) and out ( hed ine ) the nce ork and bnn , red on an ent est set and ged ver 123 uns , ter ing one ive and one ive ing ple .
ere the ion ate is rly oor , nce the ion of thk cts fer , and ion nly ers ion the ial ure for ect ion .
bnn ing the nce ork ces a ork hat is uch ess ive to ect ion , ing in a 23% ion acy in his lar ple .
ote hat the ork ned by bnn rms tly ter han the nce ork elf sed as a ier ( 23% ) .
his is use bnn is ned on ges of the hoe and the ses , ile the nce ork is not .
the nce of ing pes mes ear by ing at the acy hat is ved hen pes are ted tly .
if pes are nly ted by ing an age ith elf ( i . e . , oth ges of the nce ork are ent ) , the age nal acy is 23% .
hen nly ise ent ges are sed as put to the nce ork , the ing acy is 23% .
oth ies are tly ler han the 23% acy ved by ing the two .
we lso ied nts ing the res of pes .
in one ase , we sed the ion acy of the ain ory ( ob* ) as the ing tor : the ore ate the nce ork for a lar ing ple , the ger the ght of the ing ope in the ure .
his egy , ich has een und to be ful oss a ety of ins ( ell et al . , 123 , ( run , 123 ted out ent nce ( 23% ) in the ect ion ain .
the der uld ice hat all ese lts fer to the ion acy ter 123 , 123 ing chs , ing ust one ive and one ive ing ple .
as can be een in fig .
123 , ion ers rom ome ver - ing , as the acy ops ter a eak at out 123 , 123 ing chs .
the age ion acy at his int in ime is 23% .
ver , due to ack of ata , it is ble in his ain to use rly ing ods hat ely on oss ion , and it is ear her uch ods uld ave ved the lts for ion tly .
23a ows ous lts for ing ith two les of oth oes and ses .
ere , the nce een bnn and ion is ven der .
bnn ves 23%
ure 123 : ( a ) ged ion acy hen ing on two ive and two ive ing les .
( b ) ion acy for ent ber of ing les ter 123 , 123 ing chs .
nal acy , as sed to 23% by ain ion .
tly , ion ' s ion ate eds hat of bnn by 23% .
bnn ' s nce ase is 23% , ich is 123 mes ter han ion ' s 23% .
lts for nts ith ger ing set zes are ted in fig .
as can be een rom his ure , the nce een the ods ses as the ber of ing ces ses .
bnn , ver , ues to orm tly ter han ain ion .
his hes our ons , as the eed for und dge ses as the ber of ing les ses .
ver , the ary cus of his per is ing hen ing ata in x is rce .
123 the ole of the nce ork
the ved ion tes , ich ate the ful fer of dge rom the ort ets via the nce ork , ise the ion hat tly are the ces ted in his ork .
hat ype ion do the pes vey ?
a ble ( but nly ate ) ure of the nce of a ure is the ude of its pes .
the ger the pes , the ger the ect of all ges in the ure on the ion , nce the ore ant the ure .
in der to lly ess the nce of res , age ope des ere ted for all put els , ged ver all 123 irs of ing ces .
the est age ope ude was und for lor ion : 123 .
in son , ion pes ere , on age , nly 123 ( his is 23% of the age for lor pes ) , and ess pes nly 123 ( 123 123 % ) .
ese ers ate hat , ing to the nce ork , lor ion was ost ant for ion .
to ify his sis , we ted our nts ing ome of the age ion .
ore lly , in one ent lor ion was ted , in a ond ion , and ess in a ird .
the lts
nce ork ion , no bnn 123 ing ple per ass ame , ter 123 , 123 ing chs age own in fig .
123 123 ing les per ass nly cts of ame ass sed for ing pes nly cts of ent ass sed for ing pes ing pes by ion acy
ble 123 : ary of the ion lts ted in the per .
all ers are age ion tes on een ing ata .
out nce ork ith nce ork
123 123 %
med our ief hat lor ion eed tes ion .
it is ear hat out lor the ion tes in the ing set are oor , ugh bnn ill zes ter .
if ion or ess is ted , ver , the ion ate is ely ent to the lts ned for the ull ges ted ove .
ver , ing red tly ore ing chs in the nce of ess ion ( not own ere ) .
ese and her lts ted ere are zed in ble 123
123 ows age ope ces for the get ory ( oes ) ith ect to the ree put res , lor , ess and ion .
rey ors ate hat the age ope for an put xel is ero .
ght and ark ors ate gly ive and gly ive pes , ely .
ice hat ese pes are ged ver all 123 ons sed for ing .
as is ily een , age lor pes ary ver the age , ing a ght ive ncy on age .
age ion pes are ely ero .
ess pes , ver , bit a ong ive ncy ich is est in the ter of the age .
one ble ion for the ter ion is the ing : oth the hoe and the ses are ark red to the und .
oes are , on age , ger han ses , and nce ill ore els .
in ion , in the ity of ges the ect was ere ear the ter of the age , eas the der els wed tly ore ise .
ack of ess in the age ter is ore a ood tor for the nce of the hoe , as is rly ted in the ess pes ved
ure 123 : pes of the get ept ( ses ) ith ect to ( a ) lor , ( b ) ion , and ( c ) ess .
ery ope is ged ver 123 ons .
ite ( ack ) lor nts ive
rom the nce ork .
the ess ous lts for lor and ion can be ted to the ect hat mal ers are non - ear in lor and ion .
in der to ate cts by lor , for ple , the ork has to pot a fic val in lor ace .
nce , the ect pes can be her ive or ive ing in the lar lor of a xel , ing ach her out in his lot .
as ted out ier , pes ide rst - der ion , and ces may ell be den in her - der ves .
ver , oth the ior nce of bnn as ell as the ear ion of ope des and ion acy how hat bnn ges to act ful nce ion in his ain , ven if ese ces efy ple
123 ive hes
ile in his per we ave ted one lar ach to ong ing in the ext of ion , any ers are ble and ral can be und in ent ure .
e ing nal ons .
her ers ort ues to lop ore ate den yer ons rom ple sks .
for ple , att sed a hod ich red ion by ing an nal ion hat was ped in ier ing sks ( att , 123
a lar que has een sed in ( key and key , 123
a ond ple of ing nal ons ing ple get ons is ana ' s lti - ask ing thm .
in his ach .
ple , ted sks are ned sly in a gle ral ork , ing the rks to are den its .
he rts hat den nal ons are ped ich ead to ved ion ( ana , 123
ice hat ese lts tch our ngs hen ing the nce ork .
all ese hes lop ter nal ons of the ata by ing ple ons in f ith the oal of ing ion .
" ing ant res .
her ach , ich ars ose nce to ing ces and ing ons , is to pot ant res ( one , 123 , ( ana and tag , 123 ) .
if the set of get ons f is uch hat - oss the ard - nly a set the res is ant ( e . g . , the ime of day may not ter for ect ion ) , a ing tem can loy ort ets to ind the ost ant res .
nce hey are red , the ing sis ace is ler , ich ces the ple ity in ing .
ice hat bnn ens the nce of ant res ugh ero - ued pes bnn .
" ing the ata .
a ent ach to ong ing is to ify the dr the ing set x or in the ort ets y .
for ple , ine ere is a ge ! ule hat can be ied to all ons in f , but it res hat ata is pre ach f e f res an ual ter .
his is the ase , for ple , in hes to ker ion .
ker ion ses a ily of ues ied in ech ion , in ich a ter kly pts to the ent , ice , tch , or eed of an ual ker ( see ( ild and bel , 123 for an ple ) .
lly , ech is ted to a ore ine - ble ech by a ser - fic ule hat lws ick ion .
ker ion is an ple of an ach in ich ing ata x is ted to fit sly ned les .
in nce , all ese hes nge the ias of the ion tor .
hey fer in the way ias is ted , and in the ion hey ake on the ing ion ass f .
a ety of hes aim to nge the ias of an ive ion tor in a ore ect way .
for ple , ton ( ton , 123 bes an ach hat oys man ers to ine mal ing tes .
son ( son , 123 123 ses ues for ing the nce ric in a est bor zer .
in ( ron and ore , 123 , an tal hod for the ion of est bor els is bed .
ing ith a sis set h , his que ses ing ata and oss - ion to lly uce h .
ver , any of the hes ted ere ave not een sed in the ext of ing ore han one ask .
it uld be ted hat the nce ach ars ome nce to ing mes und in the ext of ous ing and ter ion .
ard and ues ( ard et al . , 123 yed the ent - rop thm for ing and - ted ers .
nce ter ion uld be ant to ion and ion , hey lly ded ero - ued get pes in the ons of ese ces , ery uch ike ose lly ted by bnn .
eau ( eau , 123 rts a lar que hat was sed for ing an ous cle .
sed on dge out the ion of era ges and ing ion , he ted nal ing ata hat ere sed hen ing the ork .
his que can be wed as an ive ion of ard ' s ach .
in oth ses , ain dge was yed to ate ces nto ral ork ing .
the nce ach ted ere ers in hat a del of the ces is ted rom ing ata , ing it ble in ons ere the ate ert dge is not ble rom a man ner .
in the ong ing ork , the ner ces a ion of ted ing sks .
the nge of his ork is to fer dge oss sks , in der to ize ter rom wer ing les of the get ion elf .
the tal lts ted in his per ide ear nce of ior ral - ion in the ect ion ain , hen ces ned rom ted sks are sed to ent the ing ata for a new ect ion ask .
ver , the ess of his nce ach ies on ral cal ons :
" ell ned nce ons est on the ion hat f eys the nce rty .
ver , ven if the nce rty is nly ely ied by f , the ort ets can be sed to ain an nce ork .
his ork ill , in the eal ase , ach the ted a - lue .
the ect ion ain ted ove des an ple in ich the nce rty may old nly ely .
his is use ent cts may ook ike in the rse - ned , isy ges , in ich ase hey ate the
" it is lso med hat ons in f ess ain ces ich can lly be ned by the nce ork .
his act oes not low rom the nce rty .
the act ces hat ill be ned end lly on the put ion and ion tor sed for a .
" we lso med hat the put ace 123 of ons in f is ary .
ver , his ion is not ial for the nce ach .
in ple , nce ons may be ned for ary , igh - nal put ces , ven hat a ion of nce een put ors is ble .
for ple , if the ion ace f ins lti - , rn , the cal tor nce nal eal - ued ons of the ype f : wm r ) hes a cal nce tk : 123 , , tor and nce an nce ion .
his ion , ver , ers rom a sed in the ary ase in hat no ear ass ies are ned , and no ion is ade een ive and ive les .
, r ith trk ( i , j ) = ifk ( i ) -
fk ( j ) i ( i , e
in the nts ted ove , all ree ons ere at ast ely led .
we ure hat the eal rld ers a ety of sks ere ned ces can ost ion .
for ple , ems uch as ace ion , ive ing ion , ock ket ion and ech ion , ich ess non - ial but ant ari - ces .
for ple , der the lem of ing to ize ces of ous als .
ere ain cts are ant for the ful ion ( e . g . , the nce een the yes ) , eas ers are ess ant ( e . g . , the ion in ich the son is ing ) .
ter ing on a ber of als , we ure hat the nce ork ght asp ome of ese ces , ing the lty of ing ces of new als .
it uld be ted hat in his per ong ing is ied to one lar ass of ing ems , ely ary ion sks .
in his ext , ral ive ons ave
een ade , ost of ich are ted rom ard sed ing .
it is med hat all ons ( and nce all ces in x and y ) are awn rom a hic ion ass f , in ich all ons are the ame put and put ace .
ver , 123 is ted to be ( 123 , l ) .
in ing the nce ork , her ons ere ade on the ion of the get ons in f .
the ong ing ork , ver , is ore ral .
it nly ies hat a ner ers a ude of ted ing sks ver its ire ime .
the ask of the ner eed not ily be ion .
for ple , ong ing can be ied in ion ion , sed ing , rol ing or her ing gms .
it is lso not red hat the ort ets , ich ain ted ing ata , and the ing set tem rom a ass of ons ing a mon put and put ace .
for ple , rol ing may fit rom ing ata ted in a ion ain , ugh the rol ion tes ver ent put and put ces .
for ple , in ( ell and run , 123 and ( run , 123 ) rol ing is ied in a ong ing ork .
in rol ing , the get ion f* is a rol ion ich aps pts , ted by s e s , to ons , ted by a e a :
fp : s - - - - a
ons , hen ted by the ent , ult in ome lar lty / ard , and the oal of ing is to ize ard .
a lar hod for ing rol is ent ing ( rto et al . , to ear ) , ( ton , 123 , ( ins and yan , 123
ent ing cts lue ion hat can be sed to ect mal ons .
ded in a ong ing ork , a rol ing ent may ace a ety of rol ing sks ver its ime .
as own in ( ell and run , 123 , ing ion els , ich are ons of the ype
g : s - - - + s ,
can tly uce the unt of ing red for ent rol ing sks .
bnn is sed to fer dge oss sks , as in the nce ach ted in his
the ong ing lem can lso be ood as a eta - vel ing lem .
der , for ple , its ion to ion , as ted in his per .
ach ing ple at the eta - vel ndg to a ole ort set xk at the ase - vel .
the set of ort ets y = ( xk ) hus rms the set of ing les at the eta - vel .
the ing set is x , ich is the set of ing les for the get ion f* at the ase - vel .
a ent ion to be ade is hat the ase - vel sis ace h is a set of f .
hen , the sis ace at the eta - vel is a set of ons on h , or , in her rds , a set of ets of h .
the oal of ing on the eta - vel is to uct f ( or ind a mal set of f ) as a sis ace for the ase - vel .
ach ing ple xk ces the eta - vel sis ace .
if f is a ate sis in the eta - sis ace , one cts hat in the mit h = f is the nly sis eft at the eta - vel .
nce ach ort set zes a ion in f , ery ing ple at the eta - vel ill be a ive ple of the get
ept f .
rly , ere can be no ful ias - ree ing at the eta - vel any ore han ere can be at the ase - vel .
ver , ite the ing ies een ard sed ing and eta - ing , ere are ant ces .
ven a lar get ion , f e f , the ate oal of ing is to ize the ion ror for f* .
ing f is a ary oal , nce it is ful nly in ort of ing f * .
x , ich hes a gle ing ern in the eta - vel , oes not ify f* ely .
ead , it des a lly all and isy set of put - put les of f* .
in ion , les on the eta - vel may ary in gth , nce the ber of ing les in a ort set may ary .
in der to arn at the eta - vel , ore ble ngs are ded han ose hat are lly ied in sed ing .
the nce ork hes one lar uch ing , ich rks nly if the nal ion ace f lds the nce rty .
the nce ork oes not tly ibe a sis ass - her , it ses ape nts hat , hen ted nto the ing of the ase - vel zer , ain its ace of ses .
the ral ion of his per is her ing can be ade ier hen the ner has ady ned her ted sks .
ill a tem hat is " ned " to arn ize ter han a ice ner ? his per des ing lts in an ect ion ain .
ver , ost ons hat ise in the ext of ong ing ill ack ory , ore ral ers .
we ect hat ure rch in his ion ill be ant to ing ond the sic nds ted ith ing gle ted ons .
we ank tro ler for ful nts on an ier aft of his per .
