we der the lem of ero - hot ing , ere the oal is to arn a las - ier f : x y hat ust ict vel ues of y hat ere ted rom the ing set .
to eve his , we ene the ion of a tic put ode ier ( soc ) ich zes a dge ase of tic ies of y to ate to vel ses .
we ide a ism for his ype of ier and udy its cal ies in a pac ork , ing ons un - der ich the ier can ely ict vel ses .
as a ase udy , we ild a soc ier for a ral ing ask and how hat it can ten ict rds hat ple are ing out rom nal tic nce ges ( mri ) of eir ral ity , ven out ing les for ose rds .
ine ing hms ave een lly ied to ing ers in any ins uch as ter ion , aud ion , and ain age sis .
lly , ers are ned to ate a get ion f : x y , ven a set of led ing ata hat des all ble ues for y , and mes nal led ing ata .
tle rch has een med on ero - hot ing , ere the ble ues for the ass ble y ude ues hat ave een ted rom the ing les .
his is an ant lem ing , lly in ins ere y can ake on any ues , and the ost of ing led les for all ues is igh .
one ous ple is ter ion , ere ere are ens of nds of cts ich we ght ant a ter to ize .
her ple is in ral ity ing , ere the oal is to ine the ord or ect a son is ing out by ing an age of hat ons ral ity .
it is ble to ect ral ing ges for ery ble ord in ish , so to ild a cal ral der we ust ave a way to ate to ing rds ond ose in the ing set .
his lem is lar to the ges of tic ech ion , ere it is ble to ize rds out tly ing hem ing ier ing .
to eve ary nce , ech ion ems lly loy a eme - sed ion egy ( bel , 123 ) .
mes are the ent rts ich can be ned to uct the rds of a age .
ech ion ems eed by ing a ely all set of eme
ers in ion ith a rge dge ase ing rds as ons of to ply a lar ach to ral ity ing , we ust ver how to fer the mpo - ent rts of a rds ing rom ral ity .
ile ere is no ear sus as to how the ain des tic ion ( aut , 123 ) , ere are ral sed ons hat ght rve as a dge ase of ral ity , hus ing a ral der to ize a rge set of ble rds , ven hen ose rds are ted rom a ing set .
the ral ion his per sks is :
ven a tic ing of a rge set of ept ses , can we ild a ier to ize ses hat ere ted rom the ing set ? we ide a mal ork for ing his ion and a ete ple for the ask of ral ity ing .
we how it is ble to ild a ier hat can ize rds a son is ing out , ven out ing les for ose lar rds .
123 ted ork
the lem of ero - hot ing has ved tle ion in the ine ing ity .
ome ork by lle et al .
( 123 ) on ero - ata ing has own the ity to ict vel ses of its hat ere ted rom a ing set .
in ter ion , ues for ing res oss ect ses ave een ted ( lba & phy , 23; art & man , 123 ) but ely tle ork has sed on ing ely vel ses , ith the ion of ert et al .
( 123 ) ing ual ies of new cts and adi et al .
( 123 ) ing ual rty ons for ect ion .
in the ral ing ity , kay et al .
( 123 ) has own the ity to ode ( rom ual tex ity ) ich vel ual nes a son is ing rom a rge set of ble ges , but out ing the age ent per se .
the ork ost lar to our own is ell ( 123 ) .
hey use tic res ved rom pus ics to ate a ral ity ern for any oun in ish .
in our ork , by ast , we cus on ord ing , ere ven a vel ral age , we ish to ict the ord rom a rge set of ble rds .
we lso der tic res hat are ved rom man ing in ion to pus ics .
her , we uce a ism for a ero - hot ner and ide cal ees on its ity to ize vel ses ted rom a
123 ion ith tic dge
in his ion we ize the ion of a ero - hot ner hat ses tic dge to rap - ate to vel ses .
ile a ero - hot ner uld ake any rms , we ent one uch del hat zes an ate set of res ved rom a tic dge ase .
ely , our oal is to eat ach ass not as ply an mic bel , but ead ent it ing a tor of tic res ing a rge ber of ble ses .
our els ill arn the hip een put ata and the tic res .
hey ill use his ned hip in a two tep ion ure to ver the ass bel for vel put ata .
ven new put ata , the els ill ict a set of tic res ing to hat put , and hen nd the ass in the dge ase hat est hes hat set of ted res .
tly , his ure ill ven ork for put ata rom a vel ass if hat ass is ded in the tic dge ase ( i . e .
ven if no put ace ion is ble for the ass , but a ure ing of it sts in the tic dge ase ) .
ion 123
tic ure ace a tic ure ace of p ons is a ric ace in ich ach of the p ons des the lue of a tic rty .
ese ies may be cal in ure or may ain eal - ued ata .
as an ple , der a tic ace for ing igh - vel ies of als .
in his ple , ell der a all ace ith nly p = 123 ons .
ach ion des a is it rry ? oes it ave a ail ? can it the ter ? is it ous ? is it low ing ? in his tic ure ace , the cal ept of dog ght be ted as the int ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ion 123
tic dge ase a tic dge ase k of m les is a ion of irs ( f , y ) 123 : m uch hat f f p is a int in a p nal tic ace f p and y y is a ass bel rom a set y .
we ume a one - to - one ing een ass els and nts in the tic ure ace .
a dge ase of als uld ain the tic ing and bel for any als .
ion 123
tic put ode ier a tic put ode ier h : x d y aps nts rom ome d nal raw - put ace x d to a bel rom a set y uch hat h is the ion of two her ons , s and l ,
h = l ( s ( ) ) : x d f p l : f p y
his del of a ero - hot ier rst aps rom a d nal raw - put ace x d nto a tic ace of p ons f p , and hen aps his tic ing to a ass bel .
for ple , we may ine ome raw - put res rom a tal age of a dog rst ped nto the tic ing of a dog bed ier , ich is hen ped to the ass bel dog .
as a ult , our ass els can be ght of as a tic put ode , lar in rit to the ror - ing put des of ich and iri ( 123 ) .
as art of its ing put , his ier is ven a set of n les d hat sts of irs ( x , y ) 123 : n uch hat x x d and y y .
the ier is lso ven a dge ase k of m les hat is a ion of irs ( f , y ) 123 : m uch hat f f p and y y .
lly , m >> n , ing hat ata in tic ace is ble for any ore ass els han in the raw - put a tic put ode ier can be ful hen the dge ase k ers ore of the ble ues for y han are red by the put ata d .
to arn the ing s , the ier rst lds a new set of n les ( x , f ) 123 : n by ing ach y ith the ive tic ing f ing to its dge ase k .
the ion ind ing his two - age ess is hat the ier may be ble to arn the hip een the raw - put ace and the ual ons of the tic ure ace rom a ely all ber of ing les in the put ace .
hen a new ple is ted , the ier ill ake a ion out its tic ing ing the ned s map .
ven hen a new ple ngs to a ass hat did not ear in the ing set d , if the ion ced by the s map is ose to the rue ing of hat ass , hen the l map ill ave a ble nce of ing the ect bel .
as a ete ple , if the del can ict the ect has fur and a ail , it uld ave a ood nce of ing the ass bel dog , ven out ing een ges of ogs ing ing .
in ort : by ing a ich tic ing of the ses , the ier may be ble to ate and ize vel ses .
123 cal sis
in his ion we der cal ies of a tic put ode ier hat ine its ity to ize ces of vel ses .
in her rds , we ill ess the ion : der hat ons ill the tic put ode ier ize les rom ses ted rom its ing set ?
in ing his ion , our oal is to ain a pac - yle und : we ant to now how uch ror can be ted in the ion of the tic ies ile ill ing the vel ass ith igh ity .
we ill hen use his ror und to ain a und on the ber of les ary to eve hat vel of ror in the rst age of the ier .
the dea is hat if the rst age s ( ) of the ier can ict the tic ies ell , hen the ond age l ( ) ill ave a ood nce of ing the ect bel for ces rom vel ses .
as a rst tep rds a ral ory of ero - hot ing , we ill der one ion of a tic put ode ier .
we ill ume hat tic res are ary els , the rst age s ( ) is a ion of pac - ble ear ers ( one ier per ure ) , and the ond age l ( ) is a 123 - est bor ier ing the ing nce ric .
by ing ese ons , we can age ing pac ory for ear ers as ell as ory for ate est bor rch .
uch of our est - bor sis els the ork of cia and lla ( 123 ) .
we rst ant to und the unt of ror we can ate ven a ion of tic res .
to nd his und , we ene f to be the ion in tic ure ace of nts rom the dge ase k .
rly nts ( ses ) in tic ace may not be ant rom ach her .
a int ght be far rom ers , ich uld low ore oom for ror in the ion of tic res for his int , ile ing the ity to ver its que ity ( bel ) .
ely , a int ose to ers in tic ace ill ave wer nce of ror .
in ort , the nce for ror is ive to a lar int in ion to her nts in tic ace .
we ext ene a ion q to be the put of the s ( ) map ied to ome raw - put ple x x d .
let d ( q , q ( cid : 123 ) ) be the nce een the ion q and ome her int q ( cid : 123 ) ing a ass in the tic ace .
we ene the ive ion rq for a int q as the ity hat the nce rom q to q ( cid : 123 ) is ess han ome nce z :
his cal ion nds on f and is ust the ion of led nts rom f hat are ess han ome nce z way rom q .
ing his ion , we can lso ene a ion on the nce to the est bor of q , ned as q :
rq ( z ) = p ( d ( q , q ( cid : 123 ) ) z )
gq ( z ) = p ( q z )
ich is ven in cia ( 123 ) as :
gq ( z ) = 123 ( 123 rq ( z ) ) n
ere n is the ber of ual nts awn rom the ion f .
now ose hat we ene q to be the nce a ion q for raw - put ple x is rom the rue tic ing of the ass to ich x ngs .
ely , the ass we fer for put x is ing to be the int est to ion q , so we ant a all ity hat the nce q to the rue ass is ger han the nce een q and its est bor , nce hat uld ean ere is a ous bor ser to q in tic ace han the int ing qs rue ass :
p ( q q )
ing we can put his in rms of the ion gq and hen can lve for q :
p ( q q )
if gq ( ) ere ble , we uld ely ver the lue q for a red .
for ome ons , gq ( ) may not be a 123 - to - 123 ion , so ere may not be an rse .
but gq ( ) ill ver ase nce it is a ive ion ion .
we ill ore ene a ion 123 uch hat : 123 so ing est bor for l ( ) , if q 123 q ( ) , hen we ill ver the ect ass ith at ast 123 ity .
to ure hat we eve his ror und , we eed to ake ure the tal ror of s ( ) is ess han 123 .
we ume in his sis hat we ave p ary tic res and a ing nce ric , so max nes the tal
q ( ) ich we ene as max
q ( ) = axq
ber of kes we can ake ing the ary res .
ote ith our ons , ach tic ure is pac - ble ing a ear ier rom a d nal raw put ace .
to ify the sis , we ill eat ach of the p tic res as tly ned .
by the pac ion , the rue ror ( i . e .
ity of the ier ing a ake ) of ach of the p ned ses is , hen the ted ber of kes ver the p tic res ill be kes is ven by the ial ion : cdf ( max we can ain the red ror ate for ach sis by ing the ard pac und for vc - 123 ( ell , 123 ) .
to ain a sis ith ( 123 ) ity hat has rue ror at ost = max
/ p = 123 ( ) / p , hen the ier res a ber of les mq , :
her , the ity of ing at ost max
if we set = max
; p , max
log ( 123 / ) + 123 ( d + 123 ) log ( 23p / max
if ach of the p ers ( ure ors ) is ned ith his any les , hen ith rob - ity ( 123 ) p , all ure ors ill eve the red ror ate .
but ote hat his is nly the ity of ing p ses ith the red rue ror ate .
the ial cdf lds kes tal , and the ( 123 ) erm ove ies the the ity of ing at ost max ity of ing the rue ass if a mum of his any kes ere ade .
ore , ere are ree tic nts red for the tic put ode ier to ict a vel ass and the tal ( int ) ity of ese nts is :
p ( ere are p ure ors ith rue ror max p ( at ost max p ( ing rue ass | at ost max
kes ade | ere are p ure ors ith rue ror max
and nce max
q ( ) , the tal ity is ven by : ( 123 ) p cdf ( 123
q ( ) ; p , 123
q ( ) / p ) ( 123 )
in ary , ven red ror ers ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) for the two ier ges , ion 123 des the tal ity of tly ing a vel ass .
ven the lue for we can ute the ary for ach ure tor .
we are eed to ain the tal ity if the ure ors ere ned ith mq , raw - put les as ied in ion 123
to our dge , ons 123 and 123 ify the rst mal tee hat des ons der ich a ier can ict vel ses .
123 ase udy : ral ing of vel hts
in his ion we lly ate a tic put ode ier on a ral ing ask .
the ive is to ode vel rds a son is ing out rom mri ges of the ons ral ity , out ing ple mri ges of ose rds ing ing .
we zed the ame mri set rom ell ( 123 ) .
his set ins the ral ity ved rom ine man nts ile ing 123 ent ete rds ( 123 les rom 123 ent ies ) .
ome les ude als : ear , dog , cat , cow , rse and les : uck , car , ain , ane , cle .
ach ant was own a ord and a all ine ing of the ete ect the ord nts .
the nts ere ked to ink out the ies of ese cts for ral nds ile ges of eir ain ity ere ded .
ach age res the ral ity at hly 123 , 123 ons ( i . e .
els ) in the ain .
six mri ans ere ken for ach ord .
we sed the ame ime - ing bed in ell ( 123 ) to ate a gle age ain ity ern for ach of the 123 rds , for ach ant .
the vc ion of ear ers in d ons is d + 123
in the age of the tic put ode ier , his set nts the ion d of raw - put ace les .
we lso ted two tic dge ses for ese 123 rds .
in the rst tic owl - dge ase , 123 , ach ord is ted as a co - nce tor ith the 123 ost ent rds rom the gle ion - ord - 123
the ond tic dge ase , 123 , was ted ing the cal urk man ion ice rom zon . com .
ere ere 123 tic res ted for the 123 rds , and the ons ere ted to ect cal res out ral ity ing .
for ple , the ons ted to ize , ape , ace ies , and cal age .
ple ons ude is it ade ? and can you old it ? .
ers of the cal urk ice red ese ons for ach ord on a ale of 123 to 123 ( ely not to ely yes ) .
in our nts , we use ple put ear ion to arn the s ( ) map of the tic put ode ier .
let x ( cid : 123 ) nd be a ing set of mri les ere ach row is the age for a lar ord and d is the ber of ons of the mri age .
ing ing , we use the xel - ity - ion hat oes not use the ass els bed in ell ( 123 ) to uce d rom out 123 , 123 els to 123
let y ( cid : 123 ) np be a rix of tic res for ose rds ( ned rom the dge ase k ) ere p is the ber of tic res for hat
ord ( e . g .
123 for the 123 dge ase ) .
we arn a rix of hts ( cid : 123 ) w ( cid : 123 ) dp
his del , ach put is ted tly , so we can lve all of hem kly in one rix ion ( ven ith nds of tic res ) :
( cid : 123 ) w = ( xt x + i ) 3xt y
ere i is the ity rix and is a ion ter sen lly ing the oss - ion ing ion ( tie et al . , 123 ) 123
ven a vel mri age x , we can ain
a ion ( cid : 123 ) f of the tic res for his age by ing the age by the hts : ( cid : 123 ) f = x ( cid : 123 ) w ier .
in her rds , l ( ( cid : 123 ) f ) ill ake the ion of res and urn the est int in a
for the ond age of the tic put ode ier , l ( ) , we ply use a 123 - est bor
ven dge ase ing the ean nce ( 123 ) ric .
ing the del and ets bed ove , we now ose and wer ree ant ons .
can we ild a ier to ate een two ses , ere her ass red in the ing set ? to wer his ion , we med a ave - two - out - oss - ion .
lly , we ned the del in ion 123 to arn the ing een 123 mri ges and the tic res for eir ive rds .
for the rst eld out age , we ied the ned ght rix to ain a ion of the tic res , and hen we sed a 123 - est bor ier to are the tor of ons to the rue tic ngs of the two eld - out rds .
the bel was sen by ing the ord ith the ing est to the ion for the mri age .
we hen med the ame est ing the ond eld - out age .
hus , for ach ion of the oss -
ion , two ate ons ere ade .
his ess was ted for all ( cid : 123 ) 123
( cid : 123 ) = 123 , 123
ble ave - two - out ons ing to 123 , 123 tal ons .
ble 123 ows the lts for two ent tic ure ngs .
we see hat the 123 tic res tly med the 123 res , ith ean ies ver the ine nts of 23% and 23% ely .
but for oth ure ets , we see hat it is ble to ate een two vel ses for ach of the ine nts .
ors are zed to nit gth and do not ude 123 top rds ike a , the , is 3we ute the oss - ion ore for ach ask and ose the ter hat zes the age
oss oss all put sks .
ble 123 : ent ies for ave - two - out - oss - ion for 123 mri nts ( led 123 - 123 ) .
the ues ent ier age acy ver 123 , 123 als hen ing be - een two mri ges , oth of ich ere ted rom the ing set .
ure 123 : ten tic res rom the 123 dge ase for the rds ear and dog .
the rue ing is own ong ith the ted ing hen mri ges for ear and dog ere eft out of the ing set .
how is the ier ble to ate een ely ted vel ses ? ure 123 ows ten tic ons ( res ) rom the 123 set .
the aph ows the rue ues ong ith the ted ure ues for oth ear and dog hen ned on the her 123 rds .
we see the del is ble to arn to ict any of the key res hat ars and ogs ave in mon uch as is it an mal ? as ell as ose hat ate een the two , uch as do you see it ily ? and can you old it ? for oth of ese vel rds , the res ted rom the ral ata ere est to the rue ord .
can we ode the ord rom a rge set of ble rds ? ven the ess of the tic put ode ier at ing een the ain ges for two vel rds , we now der the uch der lem of ing a vel ord rom a rge set of ate rds .
to est his ity , we med a ave - one - out - oss - ion , ere we ned ing ion 123 on ges and tic res for 123 rds .
we hen pre - ted the res for the eld - out age of the 3th ord , and hen med a 123 - est bor ion in a rge set of ate rds .
we ted two ent ord ets .
the rst was 123 ich is the ion of all 123 ete uns for ich we ted mri ata , ing the 123 ing rds and the gle eld out ord .
the ond set was 123 , a ion of 123 ish uns ith igh ity , ess and ity , led rom son ( 123 ) and ass ( 123 ) .
for his set of rds , we ded the rue eld - out ord to the set of 123 on ach oss - ion ion .
we med his ent ing oth the 123 and 123 ure ets .
the ank acy lts ( ver 123 oss - ion ons ) of the our nts are own in ure 123
the 123 res ain tly orm 123 on oth ean and ian ank acy res , and oth ure ets orm ell ove nce .
on 123 of 123 tal ons of the 123 rds ( 123 ons for ach of ine nts ) , the 123 res ted the gle eld - out ord ove all 123 her rds in its ing set .
ile ust a bit ove nce vel ( 123 / 123 ) , the act hat the del ver ses the eld - out ord ver all the ing rds is thy nce the del is dly sed rds ing ure ues lar to the rds on ich it was ned .
on the 123 rds , the del ted the ect ord rom the set of 123 ves a tal of 123 mes for the 123 res and 123 mes for the 123 res .
for ome cts , the del tly ked the ght
ear & dog ion tch - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 . 123 . 123 . 3is it mal ? is it man - ade ? do you eit ily ? is ful ? can old it ? uld ind it in use ? do ove it ? oes and two egs ? is it ild ? oes ion ? ear ear dog dog ted ure 123 : the ean and ian ank ies oss ine nts for two ent tic ure ets .
oth the nal 123 mri rds and a set of 123 uns ere red .
ble 123 : the top ve ted rds for a vel mri age ken for the ord in old ( all mri ges ken rom ant 123 ) .
the ber in the ses ins the ank of the ect ord ted rom 123 ete uns in ish .
ord rom the set of 123 ore han 23% of the ime .
the nce acy of ing a ord tly is nly 23% , ing we uld ect ess han one ect ion oss all 123 as ure 123 ows , the ian ank ies are ten tly her han the ean ank ies .
ing the 123 res on the 123 rds , the ian ank acy is ove 23% for ach ant ile the ean is lly out 23% wer .
his is due to the act hat ral rds are tly ted rly .
the ion of rds in the ies ani - als , ody rts , ods , ols , and les lly orm ell , ile the rds in the ies ure , man - ade ems , and cts ten orm rly .
ven hen the ect ord is not the est tch , the rds hat est tch the ted res are ten ery lar to the eld - out ord .
ble 123 ows the top ve ted rds for ght ent eld - out mri ges for ant 123 ( i . e .
the 123 est rds in the set of 123 to the ted tor of tic res ) .
we ted a ism for a ero - hot ing thm own as the tic put ode ier .
his ier can ict vel ses hat ere ted rom a ing set by ing a tic dge ase hat des res mon to oth the vel ses and the ing set .
we lso ved the rst mal tee hat ows ons der ich his ier ill ict vel ses .
we ted his tic put ode ier on the ask of ral ing ing tic dge ses ved rom oth man ing and pus ics .
we wed his ier can ict the ord a son is ing out rom a ded mri age of hat ons ral ity ith acy uch her han nce , ven hen ing les for hat lar ord ere ted rom the ing set and the ier was ced to ick the ord rom ong rly 123 , 123 ves .
we ave own hat ing ges of ain ity are not red for ery ord we uld ike a ier to ize .
ese lts tly nce the ate - of - the - art in ral ing and are a ing tep rds a rge ary ain - ter ace .
