pe ro ma so ca in un , ef - fo , an fr ve li da of fr ju on or a fe ob - se .
we ar th th in ca be ex as ba co ov a hy sp of ca gr mo , sh by st to - do pr kn in th fo of in th .
we pr tw ca st of ou ap , in qu mo - el of hu ca ju an br co wi tr bo - up mo of in .
pe ar re go at in th ca st of a sy fr ob of it be .
li an in ta , ca in is an il - po pr : th da we se ty un th tr ca st .
th pr is wo th th us st di th co do no im ca .
ma ca of ev ca in fo fr ju on or a fe ob , wh th is ev en da to re in co ! th fa no , mo co ac of ca in at to ge hy in a bo - up fa ba on em co .
th in as mo ( 12 ) , as we as mo re ra mo th em an ex co of ca ( 12 , 12 ) , an mo al fo le ca ba ne ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
he we ar fo an al to - do ap , wi th ca ba ne fr - wo .
in co to st bo - up ap to st le ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) , wh ai to op or in ov al po ca mo ( st an pa ) , we pr th pe co on a re co se of hy de by th pr kn of ho th wo wo .
th al ca hy no on fo a sm se of al po ca gr , bu al in sp ca me - ni wi co co pr ta , ra th mu mo ge co - di de an in re .
th pr kn th ge th hy sp of po ca mo ca be th of as an in th , an to th sc th of cl me - ic or el th ge co sp of po ca mo in th do .
fo th su of re wo in co de ( re in ( 12 ) ) , we ta th ex of st in th to be th fo fo hu ca in .
ho , ou vi co wi so re su ( 12 , 12 ) th
an in th ma be re as a ca ba ne mo .
ra , we co a th to be th un pr th ge th ra of ca ne mo po ap in a gi do th ab th al a le to co an re wi ap ca ne hy ab no sy in th pr of mi pe in .
gi th hy sp ge by an in th , ca in th fo th st ba pa : we ea hy ac to it po pr - ab an av th pr ab th sy ac to th we .
th co of ba ca in wi st to - do kn is qu po - fu , al us to ex pe ve ra in ab mo co in bo st an te ex do .
he we pr tw ca st of ou ap , in qu mo of hu ca ju an br co wi mo
12 in hi ca po
we be wi a pa in by go an so fo st ca in - en in ch ( 12 ) .
su ar sh a nu of bl , al wi a ma th bl de .
th bl de ac li up an ma no wh - ev a bl is pl on it .
so of th bl ar bl , ot ar no , bu th ou ap is no gu .
su ob a se of tr , on ea of wh on or mo bl ar pl on th de an th de ac or no .
th ar th as wh bl ha th hi ca po to ac th ma .
go an so ha de va co un wh ch su in th ca st of bl fr ju on or a fe ob .
of pa in is th ba bl co ( 12 ) : on tr 12 ( th 12 - 12 tr ) , ch ob tw bl ( ) pl on th de an th de ac .
mo ch
is pl on no sa th bo th de al an th de ac .
no al ch sa th is a bl , an is no a bl .
in , th is a ki of ex aw : se mo sa th is su to ac th de al ex aw th pr ob
ar bl .
on tr 12 ( th 12 al tr ) ,
wi de ac .
bu no ed
ar on th de
re th hy th
go et al .
( 12 ) su th ch ca re he ma be th of in te , th is of le th st of a ca ba ne .
fi 12 sh a ba ne , co wi ch ju af tr 12
va re wh th de ac th ex of an ed
ha th po to tu on th de .
we en th is a bl th
if bl 12 is on th de
an bl 12 , an ) , li fo if th de is ac ( el , st ba ne le al gi on th da ha no wa to co on su ch .
th da ar no su to co th co in re re by co - ba me ( 12 , 12 ) , 12 no to st in th ba st sc us ar co pr ta ( 12 ) .
st ps mo of ca st ju ( 12 , 12 ) , eq to ma - li pa es fo th fa of ba ne in fi 12 ( 12 ) , ei pr no ex aw he or ma no pr du to in da .
12 et al .
( 12 ) ar th co - ba le co be ap he , if we su th ob da wi la nu of ct ob .
ho , th ac do no ex wh su ma th in th th do fr th ve li da ac ob , no wh th ar ju in do so .
no do it ge to th th ex we pr he .
is a bl bu
al , re on th ta co be ex in te of a si lo de - ti .
we re as a pr th ac la : a bl de ac if an on if on or mo bl ar pl on it .
ba on th ac la an th da we ca de th re un .
if we fu as a fo of oc ra , po th mi nu of hi ca po , th we ca is no a bl , as mo ch do .
ot ca st by go et al .
ca be ex si .
ho , th de mo ca ex ma pl bu no ca in th pe ma , or pe de of co in th ju , or th ab to in pr ca re fr no da ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
it al le my th or an fo of oc ra .
in su , ne de lo no st ba ne le pr a sa ac of pe ra ca in .
we no sh ho a ba st in ba on st to - do kn ca ex th bl de ju , as we as se pr - bi va th cl ex th ca of de ac .
mo ge , th to - do kn ta th fo of a ca th wi at le tw co : an on of ob , at an ev ty , an a se of ca pr re th el .
he we tr th on in we ar cu de a fo tr us th to of pr re lo ( e . g . , ( 12 ) ) .
in th ba bl de do , we ha tw ki of ob , bl an ma tw re at , be a bl an be a bl de an tw ki of ev , a bl be pl on a ma an a ma ac .
th ca pr re th ev an at is ju th ac la in ab .
in of se as a pr fo de in , th ca la no ge a hy sp of ca ba ne fo st in .
th sp is qu re : wi tw ob an on de , th ar on 12 co hy ( fi 12 ) .
th ar al de by th th .
ba co pr fo ea hy
on th ac la , ot it eq 12
to th se of hy co wi
ca in th fo by ba up of pr ov in li of th ob da .
we as in ob so th th to li , th in - tr fa in se te fo in tr .
fo al hy in li al fa in , an we ca ig th
as th bl po ar in of th la tw te
is 12 fo an hy co ca st .
th re te
wi th da an 12 ot , be of th de ac la .
th po fo an da se is th si th re an re of th pr
ba bl pr as fo .
af th 12 - 12 tr ( be a bl : th co hy ar
re co .
th pr ov ca st
lo ( al ot ar ze ) :
) , at le on bl mu .
af th 12 al tr , as th ea bl ha so in
of be a bl .
th no po pr ar th gi as fo -
fi , th
pr th bl ma be co by av th pr of al co hy we th po pr :
12 ge , we co al fo so no in th de , by le th li : <; : ? ( =a ' df be pr ra th de .
fo si we co on th no -
le ca he a lo le of no wo gi si re .
is a bl
; th , af th 12 al tr ,
is pr no (
in co wi hu ju in th ba bl pa , th re , th ba ju be ei bl is pl on
, ju af th 12 - 12 tr an
ju af th 12 al tr .
th pr de on on th pr pr - bi of bl , qu ma ch ba bl - in be : af th 12 - 12 tr , bo bl ar mo li th no to be bl is de a bl wh
th th is no ne to po a sp
oc ra ju to ex wh be li le li to be a bl af th 12 al tr th ad fo na as a ra st in .
ho , we do ha to as th bl ar so ra ( ) .
fo th 12 al ) , be th un tr th pr of se tr ex aw al th ev fo
bl 12 wo re li to be a bl ev af th 12 al tr .
in or to te wh hu ca re ac em th ba fo of oc ra , or in a mo qu ru su as th cl ve , en sh no be mu be ne , we co th ne bl - de ex - pe on bo ad an 12 - ye - ol ch ( in co wi so & go ) .
th rs tw ex we ju li th or ba bl st , ex th we ma su es of by in a pr ph .
su rs sa 12 ob pl on th de , of wh ei 12 , in th ra co , or 12 , in th co co , ac th de .
we hy th th ma - ni wo le su to se th su pr fo bl to ei
, an th , if gu by th ba oc ra , to sh st or we
be a bl re to ba (
fr th rs tr .
th fo
we ga ad su a di co st , in su pe an a su de , bu he we tr th re in bl de te .
fo th ra we pi at ra fr th sa or co tr , tw ne ob pi an su we as th ti to ju th pr th ea on co ac th de : rs , be se it on th de , as a ba se , af a 12 - 12 tr th , af a 12 al tr .
pr we ju on a 12 - 12 sc an th re to th ra 12 - 12
th me ad pr ju an th mo pr ar sh in fi 12 ( ra ) an 12 ( co ) .
wh tw ob ha th sa pa of ob co - at ba an af th 12 - 12 tr ) , su me ju we fo no to be si di an we av to fo th an .
in to ma su ba ju th be - tt va - tt th mo , we ad ue we ve cl to th tr ba ra .
mo in , su ju tr th ba mo ov bo tr an co .
fo th 12 - 12 tr , me ra of bo ob in ab ba , bu mo so in th ra co wh th ac - ti of th de wa mo su .
fo th 12 al tr , al su in bo co we 12 su th ha th po to ac th de , an th me re to ba : lo in th ra co , bu hi in th co co - di .
fo - ye - ol ch ma ye / no ju th we qu si , ac bo ra an co co ( 12 ) .
hu ca in th ap to fo ra st pr , ob th ba ve of oc ra ra th th cl lo ve .
ho , an al ex of ou da is th su ar si em a co of lo re an si he .
fo th 12 al tr , pe co lo - ic de th th ha no in ab th st of an th fa ba on th ba ra of bl as a de , wi th ne fo an ge ba co - pu .
to ru ou th po , ou th st te ca ex wa in th
ab of un da th co be us to su de re .
su ag sa th ra pr , bu no th cr tr in th ob , .
af ju th ba pr th ea ob co ac th de ,
su sa tw tr : a 12 - 12 tr , fo by a 12 - 12 tr , in wh ob ac th de to .
th ba hy sp is an to fi 12 , bu no in ei ( re al po as of ca po to th th ob .
as be , th pr ov ca st
, th li be wr as
( un th ac la ) an 12 ot , an to 12 fo an hy co wi ma be co by su th is a bl th pr th bl
po pr of al co hy , e . g . ,
fi 12 sh th th ba mo pr an su me ju ma we ex fo a sl ov in th mo .
fo th 12 - 12 tr , pe ju th pr ac th de , bu no wi le th 12 co .
co -
in , th pr th ac th de in , to a le ab ba bu be 12 .
al of th pr - di ef ar st si (
ac th de de , an th pr th
, on - ta pa t - te ) .
th re pr st su fo ou cl th ra hu in ab ca st ca be ex as th - gu ba co .
pa st is th co be th ef of th 12 al tr an th 12 - 12 tr .
in th fo ca , su ob un th fa co to ba in th la , th ob on a su co an so ex aw is no co .
a lo de me mi ge th al - or - no ex - aw ob in th fo ca , wh a bo - up as le me mi ge th in ef se in th la ca , bu on ou to - do ba ap na ex th fu sp of on - sh ca in , fr un to ce .
is a ca an th ju ab
12 ca in in pe
ou se ca st ar fo th im of ca th in a ve di do : pe th me of co an vi .
mi ( 12 ) st of ca pe sh th a mo ba co to re ne to a st ba wo be pe as th ca of th la su mo on if th wa es no ga in sp or ti be th en of th rs ba mo an th be of th se - on ba .
th st ex is th pe ha au pe me fo de ce ki of ph ca re , su as tr of fo , an th me ar dr by si bo - up cu su as sp an te pr .
fi 12 sh da fr an ex de in ( 12 ) wh mi ap to su th vi .
su vi a co sc de a lo ho be .
at on en of th be wa a tr do , cl at th be of ea tr .
on ea tr , a he , th tr do bl wa dr on th be at so po op an a ba ew ou .
su we to th th bl dr on th be mi ha ja lo a la th op th do , an th we as to ju ( on a ho li it wa th th bl dr wa th ca of th do op .
th di se th tw ev we va ac tr .
fi 12 sh th
, an af so ti
in , th ju pr of a ca li de .
an ( 12 ) pr th th ju co be fo as a ba in wi tw al hy : , th no ca li ex .
he su th th li sh be pr of de ex in sp an ti ,
, th a ca li ex , an
th do st
, th do op if an on if th no am
su be co .
th mo ha th fr pa th de co , an th pr pr pl mu an ad sc pa to br th mo ou on th sa ra as th da .
fi 12 sh th th mo ca be ad to t th br ou of th da , bu it mi th cr in - ti : in th da , bu no th mo , th ty ad of sm di di di an ev re as th cr ma re th pr of a mu mo so th of fo tr - fe th is ca by th sp de mo .
fi 12 sh a ca gr st re a si ph mo of th si .
th gr is a dy ba ne ( db ) , en in ab th sy be ov ti .
th ar fo ba ev ty , ea in by ti ca be ei op ) , an on op it st op .
th is an in so ) or cl (
in th do me , wh we ta to be i . i . d . , ze - me ga
ea ti st th ( wh we ta to be 12 wi lo of ge ) .
th bl hi th be at ) , se up a vi in th do me wi en -
we as th en de ac to an in po la wi th di be th bl an th do , ab it in th pa be . ) fo si , we as th en pr in fr th bl to th do ( pl gi th sp of so re to th di an ti us he ) , an th th is no vi da ov ti ) .
an ( 12 ) al sk an ac al th li , al he pr no fo mo .
de st on th va of th no th bi th va , th so th do sh po op .
at is is wh th ex a ca li be th vi wh ca th do to op
( we ca al se
ca by th bl dr an th no
, th do po op we de th ev as
th li of
( ca li ) an
of th vi en
pr , we pr th ca in is ba on th pr un th tw hy so lo in le
( no ca li ) .
th no va ha is in by so fr
) an or th si .
we ca th so fo th li , le th fr pa , we ta th li as th in no le , pl mu an ad sc pa , ju as in th sp de mo .
fi 12 pl th ( sc ) po pr fo th be tt pa va .
in co to th sp de mo , th db mo ca th cr in be sp an ti .
, wh un .
th is ,
th di be th tw mo is fu , no ju an ac of th pa - et va ch .
th sp de mo ca ne pr a cr ef .
a cr of so fo is ge in du to it fu fo se in th db mo , be it pr es fo an ex de fu on wi a de ra th is a no fu of .
ot ma mo wi a no fo co su be de to t th da as we .
th st of ou mo li in it co of ra st in an re ph mo - ti .
th re su th wh sc of fo tr is in pe br , it mu em a mo co in be sp an te fa th is as - su in tr bo - up mo of ca in , an it fu fo ma be a ra co of a ri bu im ph th th un pe in - ta pe of ca .
it is an in op qu wh hu ob ca us th kn on by ca ou an on si in pa wi th ob , or ca ac it in a co fo to in bo - up sp cu wi th ne to co an ex in si .
in tw ca st , we ha ex ho pe ma ra in ab th ca te of th en .
we ha ar th th in ca be ex be as ba co , wo ov hy sp st co by to - do ca th .
th fr al us to co qu mo of ca ju th mo ac mo to da in bo do , an in th bl de - to do , th on qu pr mo to da .
ou mo ma a nu of su an me as ab as of th en th ar no di ac to hu ob .
fr a sc st th mi se un - si we wo li to wo to mo th re th fe nu of a pr as .
ye we fe th is no es th ne fo po to - do co on ca in , in th fo of in th .
in on wo , we ar be to st th or of th th th .
we ex th ba le me - ni si to th co he wi al be us in un ho we ac th in of th : ab ca pr an on ty .
