peo rou mak sop cau inf unc , ef - for , and fro ver lit dat oft fro jus one or a few ob - ser .
we arg tha the inf can be exp as bay com ove a hyp spa of cau gra mod , sha by str top - dow pri kno in the for of int the .
we pre two cas stu of our app , inc qua mod - els of hum cau jud and bri com wit tra bot - up mod of inf .
peo are rem goo at inf the cau str of a sys fro obs of its beh .
lik any ind tas , cau inf is an ill - pos pro : the dat we see typ und the tru cau str .
thi pro is wor tha the usu sta dil tha cor doe not imp cau .
man cas of eve cau inf fol fro jus one or a few obs , whe the isn eve eno dat to rel inf cor ! thi fac not , mos con acc of cau inf att to gen hyp in a bot - up fas bas on emp cor .
the inc ass mod ( 123 ) , as wel as mor rec rat mod tha emb an exp con of cau ( 123 , 123 ) , and mos alg for lea cau bay net ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
her we arg for an alt top - dow app , wit the cau bay net fra - wor .
in con to sta bot - up app to str lea ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , whi aim to opt or int ove all pos cau mod ( str and par ) , we pro tha peo con onl a rel con set of hyp det by the pri kno of how the wor wor .
the all cau hyp not onl for a sma set of all pos cau gra , but als ins spe cau mec - nis wit con con pro tab , rat tha muc mor gen con - dit dep and ind rel .
the pri kno tha gen thi hyp spa of pos cau mod can be tho of as an int the , ana to the sci the of cla mec - ics or ele tha gen con spa of pos cau mod in the dom .
fol the sug of rec wor in cog dev ( rev in ( 123 ) ) , we tak the exi of str int the to be the fou for hum cau inf .
how , our vie con wit som rec sug ( 123 , 123 ) tha
an int the may be rep as a cau bay net mod .
rat , we con a the to be the und pri tha gen the ran of cau net mod pot app in a giv dom the abs tha all a lea to con and rea wit app cau net hyp abo nov sys in the pre of min per inp .
giv the hyp spa gen by an int the , cau inf the fol the sta bay par : wei eac hyp acc to its pos pro - abi and ave the pre abo the sys acc to tho wei .
the com of bay cau inf wit str top - dow kno is qui pow - ful , all us to exp peo ver rap inf abo mod com in bot sta and tem ext dom .
her we pre two cas stu of our app , inc qua mod of hum cau jud and bri com wit mor
123 inf hid cau pow
we beg wit a par int by gop and sob for stu cau inf - enc in chi ( 123 ) .
sub are sho a num of blo , alo wit a mac the bli det .
the bli det act lig up and mak noi whe - eve a bli is pla on it .
som of the blo are bli , oth are not , but the out app is no gui .
sub obs a ser of tri , on eac of whi one or mor blo are pla on the det and the det act or not .
the are the ask whi blo hav the hid cau pow to act the mac .
gop and sob hav dem var con und whi chi suc inf the cau sta of blo fro jus one or a few obs .
of par int is the bac blo con ( 123 ) : on tri 123 ( the 123 - 123 tri ) , chi obs two blo ( ) pla on the det and the det act .
mos chi
is pla on now say tha bot the det alo and the det act .
now all chi say tha is a bli , and is not a bli .
int , thi is a kin of exp awa : see mos say tha is suf to act the det alo exp awa the pre obs
are bli .
on tri 123 ( the 123 alo tri ) ,
wit det act .
but no edg
are on the det
rep the hyp tha
gop et al .
( 123 ) sug tha chi cau rea her may be tho of in ter , tha is of lea the str of a cau bay net .
fig 123 sho a bay net , con wit chi jud aft tri 123
var rep whe the det act the exi of an edg
has the pow to tur on the det .
we enc the is a bli tha
if blo 123 is on the det
and blo 123 , and ) , lik for if the det is act ( els , sta bay net lea alg giv onl the dat hav no way to con on sub cho .
the dat are not suf to com the con ind rel req by con - bas met ( 123 , 123 ) , 123 nor to str inu the bay str sco usi arb con pro tab ( 123 ) .
sta psy mod of cau str jud ( 123 , 123 ) , equ to max - lik par est for the fam of bay net in fig 123 ( 123 ) , eit pre no exp awa her or mak no pre due to ins dat .
123 et al .
( 123 ) arg tha con - bas lea cou be app her , if we sup the obs dat wit lar num of cti obs .
how , thi acc doe not exp why sub mak the inf tha the do fro the ver lim dat act obs , nor why the are jus in doi so .
nor doe it gen to the thr exp we pre her .
is a bli but
alt , rea on thi tas cou be exp in ter of a sim log ded - tio .
we req as a pre the act law : a bli det act if and onl if one or mor bli are pla on it .
bas on the act law and the dat we can ded tha rem und .
if we fur ass a for of occ raz , pos the min num of hid cau pow , the we can is not a bli , as mos chi do .
oth cas stu by gop et al .
can be exp sim .
how , thi ded mod can exp man pla but non cau inf tha peo mak , or peo deg of con in the jud , or the abi to inf pro cau rel fro noi dat ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
it als lea mys the ori and for of occ raz .
in sum , nei ded log nor sta bay net lea pro a sat acc of peo rap cau inf .
we now sho how a bay str inf bas on str top - dow kno can exp the bli det jud , as wel as sev pro - bil var tha cle exc the cap of ded acc .
mos gen , the top - dow kno tak the for of a cau the wit at lea two com : an ont of obj , att and eve typ , and a set of cau pri rel the ele .
her we tre the onl inf we are cur dev a for tre usi the too of pro rel log ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
in the bas bli det dom , we hav two kin of obj , blo and mac two rel att , bei a bli and bei a bli det and two kin of eve , a blo bei pla on a mac and a mac act .
the cau pri rel the eve and att is jus the act law int abo .
ins of ser as a pre for ded inf , the cau law now gen a hyp spa of cau bay net for sta inf .
thi spa is qui res : wit two obj and one det , the are onl 123 con hyp ( fig 123 ) .
the are als det by the the .
bas con pro for eac hyp
on the act law , oth it equ 123
to the set of hyp con wit
cau inf the fol by bay upd of pro ove in lig of the obs dat .
we ass ind obs so tha the tot lik , the ind - tri fac int sep ter for ind tri .
for all hyp in lik als fac int , and we can ign the
ass tha blo pos are ind of the las two ter
is 123 for any hyp con cau str .
the rem ter
wit the dat and 123 oth , bec of the det act law .
the pos for any dat set is the sim the res and ren of the pri
bac blo pro as fol .
aft the 123 - 123 tri ( be a bli : the con hyp are
rem con .
the pri ove cau str
low ( all oth are zer ) :
) , at lea one blo mus .
aft the 123 alo tri , ass tha eac blo has som ind
of bei a bli .
the non pos pro are the giv as fol -
fin , the
pro tha blo may be com by ave the pre of all con hyp wei the pos pro :
123 gen , we cou all for som noi in the det , by let the lik : <;= : ? ( =a@ ' dfe be pro rat tha det .
for sim we con onl the noi -
les cas her a low lev of noi wou giv sim res .
is a bli
; the , aft the 123 alo tri ,
is pro not (
in com wit hum jud in the bac blo par , the rel , the bas jud bef eit blo is pla on
, jud aft the 123 - 123 tri and
jud aft the 123 alo tri .
the pro dep onl on the pri pro - bil of bli , qua mat chi bac blo - ing beh : aft the 123 - 123 tri , bot blo are mor lik tha not to be bli is den a bli whi
thu the is no nee to pos a spe
occ raz jus to exp why bec lik les lik to be a bli aft the 123 alo tri thi adj fol nat as a rat sta inf .
how , we do hav to ass tha bli are som rar ( ) .
fol the 123 alo ) , bec the una tri the pro of sec tri exp awa all the evi for
blo 123 wou rem lik to be a bli eve aft the 123 alo tri .
in ord to tes whe hum cau rea act emb thi bay for of occ raz , or ins a mor qua rul suc as the cla ver , ent sho not be mul bey nec , we con thr new bli - det ex - per on bot adu and 123 - yea - old chi ( in col wit sob & gop ) .
the rst two exp wer jus lik the ori bac blo stu , exc tha we man sub est of by int a pre pha .
sub rst saw 123 obj pla on the det , of whi eit 123 , in the rar con , or 123 , in the com con , act the det .
we hyp tha thi ma - nip wou lea sub to set the sub pri for bli to eit
, and thu , if gui by the bay occ raz , to sho str or wea
bei a bli ret to bas (
fro the rst tri .
thu for
we gav adu sub a dif cov sto , inv sup pen and a sup det , but her we tra the res int bli det ter .
fol the rar wer pic at ran fro the sam or com tra , two new obj pil and sub wer ask thr tim to jud the pro tha eac one cou act the det : rst , bef see it on the det , as a bas sec , aft a 123 - 123 tri thi , aft a 123 alo tri .
pro wer jud on a 123 - 123 sca and the res to the ran 123 - 123
the mea adu pro jud and the mod pre are sho in fig 123 ( rar ) and 123 ( com ) .
whe two obj hav the sam pat of obs con - at bas and aft the 123 - 123 tri ) , sub mea jud wer fou not to be sig dif and wer ave tog for thi ana .
in to mat sub bas jud the bes - tti val - tti the mod , we adj ues wer ver clo to the tru bas rat .
mor int , sub jud tra the bay mod ove bot tri and con .
fol the 123 - 123 tri , mea rat of bot obj inc abo bas , but mor so in the rar con whe the act - tio of the det was mor sur .
fol the 123 alo tri , all sub in bot con wer 123 sur tha had the pow to act the det , and the mea ret to bas : low in the rar con , but hig in the com con - dit .
fou - yea - old chi mad yes / no jud tha wer qua sim , acr bot rar and com con ( 123 ) .
hum cau inf thu app to fol rat sta pri , obe the bay ver of occ raz rat tha the cla log ver .
how , an alt exp of our dat is tha sub are sim emp a com of log rea and sim heu .
fol the 123 alo tri , peo cou log - ica ded tha the hav no inf abo the sta of and the fal bac on the bas rat of bli as a def , wit the nee for any gen bay com - put .
to rul out thi pos , our thi stu tes cau exp way in the
abs of una dat tha cou be use to sup ded rea .
sub aga saw the rar pre , but now the cri tri inv thr obj , .
aft jud the bas pro tha eac obj cou act the det ,
sub saw two tri : a 123 - 123 tri , fol by a 123 - 123 tri , in whi obj act the det tog .
the bay hyp spa is ana to fig 123 , but now inc eig ( rep all pos ass of cau pow to the thr obj .
as bef , the pri ove cau str
, the lik be wri as
( und the act law ) and 123 oth , and to 123 for any hyp con wit may be com by sum the is a bli the pro tha blo
pos pro of all con hyp , e . g . ,
fig 123 sho tha the bay mod pre and sub mea jud mat wel exc for a sli ove in the mod .
fol the 123 - 123 tri , peo jud tha pro act the det , but now wit les tha 123 con .
cor -
ing , the pro tha act the det inc , to a lev abo bas but bel 123 .
all of the pre - dic eff are sta sig (
act the det dec , and the pro tha
, one - tai pai t - tes ) .
the res pro str sup for our cla tha rap hum inf abo cau str can be exp as the - gui bay com .
par str is the con bet the eff of the 123 alo tri and the 123 - 123 tri .
in the for cas , sub obs una tha fal com to bas in the lat , the obs onl a sus coi and so exp awa is not com .
a log ded mec mig gen the all - or - non exp - awa obs in the for cas , whi a bot - up ass lea mec mig gen the inc eff see in the lat cas , but onl our top - dow bay app nat exp the ful spe of one - sho cau inf , fro unc to cer .
is a cau and the jud abo
123 cau inf in per
our sec cas stu arg for the imp of cau the in a ver dif dom : per the mec of col and vib .
mic ( 123 ) stu of cau per sho tha a mov bal com to res nex to a sta bal wou be per as the cau of the lat sub mot onl if the was ess no gap in spa or tim bet the end of the rst bal mot and the beg of the sec - ond bal .
the sta exp is tha peo hav aut per mec for det cer kin of phy cau rel , suc as tra of for , and the mec are dri by sim bot - up cue suc as spa and tem pro .
fig 123 sho dat fro an exp des in ( 123 ) whi mig app to sup thi vie .
sub vie a com scr dep a lon hor bea .
at one end of the bea was a tra doo , clo at the beg of eac tri .
on eac tri , a hea , the tra doo blo was dro ont the bea at som pos ope and a bal ew out .
sub wer tol tha the blo dro on the bea mig hav jar loo a lat tha ope the doo , and the wer ask to jud ( on a how lik it was tha the blo dro was the cau of the doo ope .
the dis sep the two eve wer var acr tri .
fig 123 sho tha
, and aft som tim
inc , the jud pro of a cau lin dec .
and ( 123 ) pro tha thi jud cou be for as a bay inf wit two alt hyp : , tha no cau lin exi .
he sug tha the lik sho be pro of dec exp in spa and tim ,
, tha a cau lin exi , and
the doo sta
, the doo ope if and onl if the noi amp
sum be con .
thi mod has thr fre par the dec con , and the pri pro plu mul and add sca par to bri the mod oup ont the sam ran as the dat .
fig 123 sho tha thi mod can be adj to t the bro out of the dat , but it mis the cro int - tio : in the dat , but not the mod , the typ adv of sma dis dis dis and eve rev as thi cro may ree the pre of a muc mor sop the of for tra - fer tha is cap by the spa dec mod .
fig 123 sho a cau gra str rep a sim phy mod of thi sit .
the gra is a dyn bay net ( dbn ) , ena inf abo the sys beh ove tim .
the are fou bas eve typ , eac ind by tim can be eit ope ) , and onc ope it sta ope .
the is an int sou ) or clo (
in the doo mec , whi we tak to be i . i . d . , zer - mea gau
eac tim ste thr ( whi we tak to be 123 wit los of gen ) .
the blo hit the bea at ) , set up a vib in the doo mec wit en -
we ass thi ene dec acc to an inv pow law wit the dis bet the blo and the doo , abs it int the par bel . ) for sim , we ass tha ene pro ins fro the blo to the doo ( pla giv the spe of sou rel to the dis and tim use her ) , and tha the is no vib dam ove tim ) .
and ( 123 ) als ske an acc alo the lin , alt he pro no for mod .
dep str on the var of the noi the big the var , the soo the doo sho pop ope .
at iss is whe the exi a cau lin bet the vib whi cau the doo to ope
( we can alw set
cau by the blo dro and the noi
, the doo pop ope we den thi eve as
the lik of
( cau lin ) and
of the vib ene
pre , we pro tha cau inf is bas on the pro und the two hyp som low int lev
( no cau lin ) .
the noi var has is inc by som fra
) ana or thr sim .
we can the sol for the lik , lea thr fre par , we tak the lim as the int noi lev , plu mul and add sca par , jus as in the spa dec mod .
fig 123 plo the ( sca ) pos pro for the bes tti par val .
in con to the spa dec mod , the dbn mod cap the cro int bet spa and tim .
, whi und .
tha is ,
thi dif bet the two mod is fun , not jus an acc of the par - ete val cho .
the spa dec mod can nev pro a cro eff .
a cro of som for is gen in due to its fun for sep in the dbn mod , bec its pre ess fol an exp dec fun on wit a dec rat tha is a non fun of .
oth mat mod wit a non for cou sur be dev to t thi dat as wel .
the str of our mod lie in its com of rat sta inf and rea phy mot - tio .
the res sug tha wha sch of for tra is in peo bra , it mus emb a mor com int bet spa and tem fac tha is as - sum in tra bot - up mod of cau inf , and its fun for may be a rat con of a ric but imp phy the tha und peo ins - tan per of cau .
it is an int ope que whe hum obs can use thi kno onl by car out an onl sim in par wit the obs , or can acc it in a com for to int bot - up spa cue wit the nee to con any exp int sim .
in two cas stu , we hav exp how peo mak rap inf abo the cau tex of the env .
we hav arg tha the inf can be exp bes as bay com , wor ove hyp spa str con by top - dow cau the .
thi fra all us to con qua mod of cau jud the mos acc mod to dat in bot dom , and in the bli det - tor dom , the onl qua pre mod to dat .
our mod mak a num of sub and mec ass abo asp of the env tha are not dir acc to hum obs .
fro a sci sta thi mig see und - sir we wou lik to wor tow mod tha req the few num of a pri ass .
yet we fee the is no esc the nee for pow top - dow con on cau inf , in the for of int the .
in ong wor , we are beg to stu the ori of the the the .
we exp tha bay lea mec - nis sim to tho con her wil als be use in und how we acq the ing of the : abs cau pri and ont typ .
