hum cog res on a uni tal for ext gen kno fro a few spe exa .
con how a chi mig rst gra the mea of a com wor , suc as hor .
giv sev exa of hor lab pro by her par , she is lik to mak an ind lea tha goe far bey the dat obs .
she cou now jud whe any new ent is a hor or not , and she wou be mos cor , exc for the occ don , dee or cam .
the abi to gen fro spa dat is cru not onl in lea wor mea , but in lea abo the pro of obj , cau rel , soc rul , and man oth dom of kno .
thi art des rec res tha see to und hum ind lea and rea in com ter ( see als con fou edi by cha , ten and yui in thi iss ) .
the goa is to bui bro app , qua pre mod tha app opt in nat env , and the exp why hum gen wor the way it doe and how it can suc giv suc spa dat ( 123 , 123 ) .
our foc is the ( 123 ) , cha the fun cap of hum inf rat tha spe psy pro tha imp
mos pre acc of ind gen rep one of two app .
the rst foc
cor aut : ten , j .
( jbt . edu ) .
on rel dom - gen , kno - ind sta mec of inf , bas on sim , ass , cor or oth sta met ( 123 , 123 123 ) .
thi app has led to suc mat mod of hum gen in lab tas , but fai to acc for man imp phe of lea and rea in com , rea - wor dom , suc as int bio , int phy or int psy .
the sec app aim to cap mor of the ric of hum inf , by app to sop dom - spe kno rep , or int the ( 123 ) .
an int the may be tho of as a sys of rel con , tog wit a set of cau law , str con , or oth exp pri , tha gui ind inf in a par dom .
how , the - bas app to ind hav bee not dif to for , par in ter tha mak qua pre abo beh or can be und in ter of rat
we wil arg for an alt app , whe str kno and sta inf coo rat tha com , all us to bui on the ins of bot tra .
we cas ind as a for of bay sta inf ove str pro mod of the wor .
the mod can be see as pro int the ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) or sch ( 123 , 123 ) , cap the kno abo a dom tha ena ind gen fro spa dat .
thi app has onl bec pos in rec yea , as adv in art int ( 123 ) and sta ( 123 ) hav pro ess too for for int the and the - bas sta inu is bid , as the bay cog mod hav led to new mac - lea alg wit mor pow and mor hum - lik cap ( 123 , 123 ) .
the - bas bay mod the - bas bay mod of ind foc on thr imp que : wha is the con of pro the , how are the use to sup rap lea , and how can the the be lea ? the lea eva hyp h abo som asp of the wor the mea of a wor , the ext of a pro or cat , or the pre of a hid cau giv obs dat x and sub to the con of a
www . sci . com 123 - 123 / $ - see fro mat q 123 els ltd .
all rig res .
doi : 123 / j . tic . 123 . 123
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
bac the t .
hyp are sco by com pos pro via bay rul :
phj t z
h12 pxj tph
the lik p ( xjh , t ) mea how wel eac hyp pre the dat , and the pri pro p ( hjt ) exp the pla of the hyp giv the lea bac kno .
pos pro - iti p ( hjx , t ) are pro to the pro of the two ter , rep the lea deg of bel in eac hyp giv bot the con of the bac the t and the obs dat x ( see the tec int to thi spe iss by gri and yui for fur bac : sup mat onl ) ado thi bay fra is jus the sta poi for our cog mod .
the cha com in spe hyp spa and pro dis tha sup bay inf for a giv tas and dom .
in the - bas bay mod , the dom the pla thi cru rol .
mor for , the dom the t gen a spa ht of can hyp , suc as all pos mea for a wor , alo wit the pri p ( hjt ) and lik p ( xjh , t ) .
pri pro and lik are thu not sim sta rec of the lea pre obs , as in som bay ana of per and mot con ( 123 , 123 ) , or pre bay ana of ind rea ( 123 ) .
nei are the ass to sha a sin uni str acr all dom , as in she pio bay ana of gen ( 123 ) .
rat , the are pro of abs sys of kno tha go sub bey the lea dir exp of the wor , and can tak qua dif for in dif dom .
we wil dis at lea two dif lev of kno in a the ( fig 123 ) .
alt int the may wel be muc ric tha thi pic sug , we foc on the min asp of the nee to sup ind gen .
the bas lev of a the is a str pro mod tha den a pro dis ove pos obs ent , pro , var , eve .
thi mod typ bui on som kin of gra str cap rel bet obs , suc as a tax hie or a cau net , tog wit a set of num par .
the gra str det qua asp of the pro mod the num - cal par det mor ne - gra qua det .
at a hig lev of kno are abs pri tha gen the cla of str mod a lea may con , suc as the spe tha a giv dom is org tax or cau .
inf at all lev of thi the hie ( fig 123 ) usi the to inf uno asp of the dat , lea str mod giv the abs dom pri of a the , and lea the abs dom pri the can be car out in a uni and tra way wit hie bay mod ( 123 ) .
p ( pri |
abs dom pri
p ( str | pri )
str pro mod
p ( dat | str )
tre in cog sci
fig 123
a hie bay fra for the - bas ind .
the lea obs dat abo the wor ( e . g .
exa of obj tha a wor ref to ) and mus pre oth uno dat ( e . g .
whi oth obj the wor can ref to ) .
the lea int the gen hyp tha can exp the obs dat and tha sup the des pre .
the the rep kno on at lea two lev of abs : a str pro mod gen exp abo the pro of pos dat set , whi mor abs dom pri gen the spa of pos str tha the lea may con .
eac lev gen the hyp and pro dis tha sup lea at the lev bel .
pri for abs dom pri can com fro mul sou , inc hig - lev dom kno or dom - gen con res .
the fol sec des the - bas bay mod for sev imp ind tas , con the wit alt app emp eit sta lea or str kno alo .
we beg wit the tas of lea wor or cat lab , and foc on the low lev of inf : the - bas gen .
the we ill the ful hie app in two oth dom , pro ind and
lea nam for thi beh stu of hum ind gen arg beg wit the stu of cat lea ( 123 ) .
the bas exp tas pre lea wit a set of obj or vis sti , and a ver lab ( e . g .
bli ) tha app to a sub of the obj .
lea obs sev exa of bli , and per neg exa ( non - bli ) , and mus the inf whi oth obj the lab app to .
the art cat - lea tas abs the ess of the pro chi fac in lea wor for kin of thi , and for mod of cat - lea and wor - lea hav dev in par .
the typ rel on bot - up gen - pur sta mec , eit exp pro ( 123 , 123 ) or fra in ter of sim or ass ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the mod ass rel sim not of cat and how lab rel to cat : for ins ( 123 ) , eac obj bel to a sin cat , and eac lab pic out a uni cat , so eac obj rec exa one lab .
how , peo rep of cat and wor mea are con mor
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
str , ree the int dom the .
the nee for a mor the - bas app has oft bee poi out ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , but rar pur by
ins fro bot the tra com tog in a bay fra ( 123 ) .
in ter of equ 123 , hyp abo the mea of a nov lab ref to sub of obj can ext for a wor mea or a cat to be lab .
abs kno abo cat str , wor usa , and wor - cat map gen the pri and lik for the hyp .
ten and xu ( 123 , 123 ) foc on lea nam for obj - kin con , whi are typ org int a tre - str tax wit lab at var lev ( 123 , 123 ) .
acc , the hyp spa of can wor mea con of all sub in a tre - str tax of obj ( in fig 123 , sub cor to bas hou , dog , ani , etc . ) .
oth log pos sub of obj not cor to sub are eff ass zer ( or ver low ) pri pro .
the pri can be fur res to fav map of wor ont bas - lev cat ( 123 ) , or to dis map two wor ont exa the sam con
the lik emb a pra ass tha wor wil be use by a com and coo spe ( 123 ) , and tha the obj lab are a fai ran sam fro the set of obj tha the wor app to .
the pri and lik com to exp how chi gen obj lab fro one or sev exa .
fig 123 sho tha gen fol a gra acc to tax dis , whi sha up giv mul exa to foc on the mos spe con tax cat : e . g .
bas hou if the exa are all bas hou , or dog if the exa are all dog but dif kin of dog .
gen alo tax con der fro the tre - str pri .
in pri , a pri cou be den ove oth rep str , suc as a euc spa rec fro sim jud , as is com in sim - bas mod ( 123 ) .
but to dat , tre - str pri hav bee the bas for the mos acc bay mod of wor - lea , con wit a pro tax bia in chi wor lea ( 123 ) .
the sha of gen wit mor exa der fro the lik : a sin exa is not hig dia abo the sco of the wor ext ,
com and coo spe ran sam exa
123 bas 123 sup .
fig 123
the - bas bay wor lea .
( a ) lea wor for obj cat , fro exa of obj pai .
obj are giv unf lab to ill the pro fac by a chi lea .
a tre - str tax of cat com the hyp spa of wor mea : eac nod in the tre ( red dot ) is a pos ext of a wor .
abs pri con the str of thi hyp spa , and gen the pri and lik nec to eva the hyp giv dat ( 123 ) .
( b ) com of the mod pre wit 123 - yea - old chi pat of gen ( pre ndi fro ( 123 ) ) .
for bot chi and the mod , the pro of gen dec wit tax dis to the exa , and thi gra bec sha as mor exa are obs .
see tex for
tre in cog sci
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
but obs sev exa dra at ran , it wou be a hig sus coi for all exa to fal wit a giv tax cat ( e . g .
bas hou ) if the wor in fac had a muc bro ext ( e . g .
dog ) ,
the ten for sma , mor spe hyp to be inc pre ove lar , mor gen hyp as mor exa are obs is a gen pri of bay lea whe ran sam exa are ass .
ten and gri ( 123 ) ref to thi as the siz pri and sho how it cou pot exp a wid ran of phe in cat lea , gen , and sim jud , whi wer not pre uni und a sin rat - inf acc .
the ran - sam ass is not alw val , of cou , and the siz pri may be acc def .
xu and ten - bau ( unp dat ) hav fou its eff are red or eli whe wor lea ( chi or adu ) are giv exa tha are cle not dra as ind ran sam .
thi bay fra has bee ext to lea oth asp of lin mea , usi dif str hyp spa app for lea ver fra ( 123 ) , adj ( 123 ) , or ana res ( 123 ) .
the are als cle con - tio to bay syn acq ( see cha and man , thi iss ( 123 ) ) .
the bay ana hav foc on lea at the bot lev of fig 123 lea abo whi wor can ref to whi ent , sit or pro .
fut wor sho exp lea the hig - lev kno tha sup the inf for ins , how peo lea the pri tha str wor - cat map , or the rel tax tre of cat ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the fol sec des a clo rel lea tas whe bay inf at hig lev of fig 123 hav bee ana
rea abo hid pro man kin of pre may be tru of a giv ent .
som of the pre cor to cat lab ( is a hor , is a sh ) but man cor to pro , suc as is bro , has a spl , or can y .
pro ind has bee the sub of num beh exp and for mod .
in a typ tas , lea nd out tha one or mor cat hav a nov pro , and mus dec how to ext the pro to oth cat in the dom .
for ins , sub mig be tol tha gor and lio car a cer gen , and ask to jud how lik it is tha mon als car thi gen ( 123 , 123 ) .
the - bas pro ind the mos sys stu of pro ind hav use bio spe and bla pro : pro lik has the t12 gen tha are unf but rec bio .
a tre - bas bay mod ( 123 ) sim to the ten and xu ( 123 ) wor - lea mod acc wel for jud abo bla bio pro .
the mod ass tha spe are org int a
tre - str tax ( 123 ) , and tha pro are gen by a mut pro ove thi tre ( fig 123 , lef ) .
the mut pro gen a pri ove can ext of pre tha is mor exi tha tra sym sem hie ( or the wor - lea pri in ( 123 ) ) : pro tha pic out a sin sub of the tax are fav , but pol - phy pro ( tho tha ari ind in two or mor sub ) are als all ( fig 123 ) .
thi mod app opt inf for bio spe and the pro , whi are in fac gen by a sto bra pro the pro of evo .
bot the tre str and som mut - lik pro for gen pro dis see to be imp bay mod usi a ran of oth pri hav con cor les wel wit peo jud
pre com mod for bla - pro ind hav use mor gen kno rep - tat , suc as pai sim ( 123 ) or col of fea ( 123 ) .
in com wit the mod , the - bas app hav cle adv in exp inf abo oth kin of pre , whe mor spe pri kno is inv .
qua dif pat of gen hav bee fou for ana pro , beh pro and dis pro ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
to cit one cla exa , giv tha poo can bit thr wir , it see lik tha ger she can bit thr wir , but kno tha dob can bit thr wir pro les sup for the sam con abo ger she ( 123 ) .
the inf can rel on sim , bec ger she are mor sim to dob tha to poo .
oth inf app to rel on asy cau rel : for exa , a dis car by sal is mor lik to be fou in gri bea tha vic
bay mod can acc for the dif pat of gen by usi dif pri ( 123 ) .
in ter of fig 123 , inf abo dif kin of obs pre are bas on dif kin of str pro mod , whi are in tur gov by dif abs dom pri .
sev exa are sho in fig 123 .
in eac cas , the tax tre str and the mut pro of the def mod are rep by a dif str gra and a dif kin of sto pro ove tha str .
for inf abo dis pre ( e . g .
car lep ) , the pri is gen by a noi tra pro ove a dir foo - web net ( fig 123 , mid ) .
thi pri cap the asy of gen in thi dom tha a pre spe is mor lik to sha a dis wit its pre tha vic ver and acc pre peo ind jud - men abo dis pre ( fig 123 ) .
a pre lik can bit thr wir or wei mor tha an anv cor to an unk thr alo som kno dim ( e . g .
str or siz ) .
a lin ord gra can rep the rel dim , and jud thr pre ( 123 , 123 ) can be mod
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
has the t12 gen
wei mor tha an anv
dri pro + thr
tre in cog sci
fig 123
the - bas bay pro ind .
( a ) thr mod for pro ind : a tax mod ( lef ) , a foo - web mod ( cen ) and a dim - thr mod ( rig ) .
eac mod ass tha pro are gen by a dif pro pro ove a dif kin of gra str , and eac mod is app for a dif kin of pro .
in the tax mod , pro are gen by a mut pro : the is a sma pro of a pro app at any poi alo any bra of the tre .
in the foo - web mod , pro are gen by a cau tra pro : the is a sma pro of a pro ari spo in any spe , and a hig pro of tra tha pro fro the spe to eac of its pre .
in the dim - thr mod , pro are gen by a ran - dri pro bia suc tha spe tow one end of the dim are inc lik to hav the nov pro .
the dat lev of the gur sho pro wit hig pri pro und eac of the mod : e . g .
the dim - thr mod fav hyp tha inc all spe bey som poi in the lin ord .
( b ) thr pos out if a pro is gen by the tax mod , sho in ord of dec pri pro : pro are mos lik if the can be exp by a sma num of mut , and if tho mut occ on lon bra .
( c ) the imp of dom the in bay mod of pro ind is ill by a dou dis in mod pre for two dif kin of pro ( pre ndi fro ( 123 ) ) .
par lea bot a tax and a foo web ove a set of spe and wer ask to mak ind jud abo eit gen or dis pro .
the bay tax mod cor str wit jud for gen pro but not dis pro , and vic ver for the bay foo - web mod .
ass a pri gen by a ran dri pro ove tha gra ( fig 123 , rig ) .
lea the to sup pro ind if dif str the are nec to acc for inf abo dif kin of pre , bec eve mor pre to exp how the the cou be acq .
bay app can add thi que at all lev of the the hie in fig 123 , and we ill by sho how the tax the mig be acq ( fig 123 ) .
fir , con the pro of lea the tre str giv raw obs dat , in the for of a lar col of spe - pro pai ( e . g .
lio hav sha tee , chi hav hai , etc . ) .
the are man dif way to org spe int a tre
( fig 123 ) , but we can sea for the tre tha max the lik p ( dat ) for the dat of obs pro ( 123 , 123 ) .
int , the bes cho all fea to var smo ove the tre : for exa , bec gor and mon sha man pro , the spe sho be loc nea in
thi app to lea a str pro mod rel cru on abs kno at the hig lev in fig 123 : a tax pri spe tha liv kin sho be rep by a tre str .
cou suc an abs dom pri its by acq ? abs kno of thi sor is oft tho to be inn ( 123 , 123 ) , per bec it see so rem fro the dat of exp .
giv an app hyp spa ,
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
tre in cog sci
fig 123
lea a the for how bio pro are dis ove spe .
( a ) giv abs dom kno tha spe sho be org in a tax tre , wit pro var smo ove tha tre , a bay lea can inf the tre str tha bes exp a set of obs pro .
two way to org ani spe int a tax are sho .
the pre str wil be the tre ove whi obs pro var mos smo .
( b ) ani spe may be org acc to var dif str pri , suc as the thr sho her .
bay inf in the hie fra of fig 123 can sel the org pri bes sup by a set of obs pro .
how , bay inf can acc for kno acq at any lev of abs .
sup tha the lea has acc to a rep of dif str for tha inc tax tre as wel as oth bas alt , suc as one - dim ord and dis clu ( fig 123 ) .
cho the bes for inv a tra - off bet com and t to the dat , whi can be for in ter of the hie bay fra of fig 123
kem et al .
( 123 ) sho tha und thi tra - off , the jud pro of bio spe are bet acc for by tre tha eit lin ord or clu .
in sum , the hie bay fra of fig 123 sup a uni lea mod tha tak as inp dat a col of spe - pro pai , and sub dis the tax pri , dis the bes tre str for the spe in the dat , and mak pre abo how to gen new , spa obs pro .
it thu exp how the the in fig 123 ( lef ) mig be dis fro raw dat , and lik cou exp the ori of hyp spa and ind bia for wor lea in you chi dis in the pre sec .
the can als be acq thr oth pro , suc as exp ins for exa , foo - web rel are typ lea tha way .
unl sim - bas acc of pro ind , a hie bay app nat acc exp ins at any lev of abs , as chi typ rec fro par or in sch : for exa , dol bre air ( at the lev of obs dat ) , dol are mam ( at the lev of str ) , and liv thi can be org int a tre ( at the lev of abs pri ) .
thi app cou exp how hea a sin sta abo dom str ( e . g .
dol are mam ) mig lea to dra cha in inf abo
cau lea and rea the rol of int the in lea and rea has bee mos pro stu in the con of cau
cog ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for man aut , cau is cen to the not of a the .
car , for ins , sug tha a the com a set of phe tha are in its dom , the cau law and oth exp mec in ter of whi the phe are acc for , and the con in ter of whi the phe and exp app are exp ( ( 123 ) , p .
the hie bay fra of fig 123 giv a uni acc of inf at all the lev , sug how cau mod can be use to pre and exp obs eve , how dom - spe pri gui con of the mod , and how tha abs dom kno cou its
at the low lev of the hie are inf abo var cha obs eve .
for ins , a doc mig obs cer asp of a pat sta , suc as sym and ris fac , and wan to pre oth , suc as dis or fut sym .
the tas hav oft bee vie as bot - up sta inf ( 123 , 123 ) , but the is evi to sug tha the pre are oft dri by cau kno ( 123 ) .
rec wor has tri to exp the rel kno and inf in rat ter usi the for of cau gra mod ( 123 , 123 ) .
the mod con a par kin of str pro mod at the mid lev of fig 123
for exa , fig 123 sho a cau mod tha cou be use to mak inf abo the dis of pat bas on the sym and ris fac .
the - bas ind of cau str man rec stu hav exa how peo lea the cau mod .
aga the hav bee bot bot - up and top - dow pro .
bot - up app det sta cue to cau str , suc as con bet var ( 123 ) , nor pro con ( 123 ) , or par cor ( 123 ) .
the cue , whe the can be det rel , all cau str to be lea for any kin of var , wit sub pri kno .
how , bot adu and you chi
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
cla : ( r , d , s ) ( ris , dis , sym ) cau law : r d , d s
obj can act mac act req con mac are ( nea ) det
wor in fac
cla : ( r , d , s ) cau law : r d , d s
cau law : c c
cla : ( r , d , s ) cau law : d r , s s
tre in cog sci
fig 123
the - bas bay cau ind .
abs cau pri con the cau str tha may be lea to cap dep amo obs var .
( a ) abs kno in a sim med dom can be rep usi a gra sch , a pro gen gra for gra .
var fal int thr cla ris fac , dis , and sym wit cau inu onl fro ris to dis and dis to sym .
giv a new obs cor ( e . g .
bet wor in a fac and chr che pai ) , the gra sch gen a con set of hyp for how tha dat mig be exp ( sho in red ) .
in the sim hyp , a dis kno to be cau by wor in a fac mig cau che pai , or a dis kno to cau che pai mig act be pro by wor in a fac .
fai the pos , the lea cou pos a new dis x , whi has che pai as a sym and is cau by wor in a fac .
oth hyp tha may be sim a pri but whi vio the the wou nev be con , suc as a dir cau lin fro wor in a fac to che pai , or fro che pai to wor in a fac .
( b ) the abs kno tha sup cau lea in a sim phy sys , the bli det ( 123 , 123 ) , can be for usi pro pre log ( 123 , 123 ) .
the the inc sev pri : the is som pro r tha any obj has the pow to act the mac an efc obj wil act the mac upo con wit pro nea 123 act has no oth cau .
pos cau rel , giv a seq of int bet blo and the mac , are sho in red .
in a con in whi mos obj hav fai to act the mac ( r is sma ) , bot peo and the the - bas bay mod inf tha obj a pro act the mac , whe b and c pro do not ( 123 , 123 ) .
( c ) the inn rel mod ( 123 ) sup a hie bay app to lea sim for of abs cau the .
gra sch wit dif num of cla and app den cau law can be inf to exp dif kin of cau net str tha a lea mig enc .
fre mak cor inf abo cau str fro jus a han of obs , far too few to com con or cor rel .
the inf mus be sup by mor abs pri kno , suc as kno abo the kin of cau mec or str in a dom , whi has bee the foc of mos top - dow app to cau lea ( 123 ) .
the the - bas bay fra onc aga pro the mea to int bot - up and top - dow inu .
in ter of fig 123 , p ( dat ) mea the lik for a par cau mod how wel tha cau str exp the obs pat of eve .
p ( str ) mea the cau mod pri pro how wel it ts wit the lea abs dom kno .
the bes cau mod max the pro of the two pro .
if a cau mod rep the mos bas kin of cau the ( 123 , 123 ) , the abs dom kno tha
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
all the mod to be lea can be tho of as a hig - lev the a the for the .
cog dev ( 123 ) hav oft emp the imp - anc of lar - sca fra the , whi con the spe the a lea con , but the hav not bee tre com .
the con of pro mod for str rep is wel - dev in com lin ( 123 ) , whe abs syn pri may be for in ter of pro gra tha gen adm syn str in a lan wit var pro .
sev pro for for abs cau the hav bee ins by thi lin ana ( 123 ) .
the cau gra ( 123 ) sha the ide of gen cau gra mod bas on an ont , whi ide the typ of ent in a dom and the pre tha can app to the , and a set of cau law , whi spe the for of all cau rel bet pre .
loo spe , the ont gen the var tha app in cau gra mod , and the cau law gen the edg and ass
fig 123 ske two exa of thi app to ind ( 123 , 123 ) .
fir , con lea a cau net rel ris fac , dis , and sym , giv dat on pat sta .
the tas is gre sim by an ont tha div the var int thr cla dis , sym , and ris fac and cau law den ove tha ont , spe tha dir inu onl exi bet ris fac and dis , and bet dis and sym .
the pri can be for usi a kin of pro gra gra tha ( 123 ) cal a gra sch .
the gra pla str con on the cau str a lea mus con , and thu all str inf abo cau str to be dra fro spa dat ( fig 123 ) .
sec , con rec stu exp the - bas cau lea usi sim phy sys suc as the bli det ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
lea are sho a num of obj , alo wit a mac tha act ( lig up and mak noi ) whe cer blo are pla on it .
aft obs sev in whi var com of obj are pla on the mac , par are ask whi obj hav the hid cau pow to act the mac .
fig 123 sho how the jud can be mod as the - bas bay inf gui by sev dom pri , suc as the act law : the mac act if and onl if it is in con wit an obj tha has the hid cau pow .
thi the can be cas mor for in pro pre log ( 123 ) .
unl bot - up app to cau lea , thi acc nat exp man ndi whe adu and you chi mak cor inf fro jus a few tri , eve for obj tha hav nev app on the mac alo ( 123 , 123 ) .
thi gen fra for the - bas cau ind has bee use to mod how peo lea mor com phy sys wit hid var and dyn cau ( 123 ) , and how peo cho opt exp to per in cau lea ( 123 ) .
lea abs cau the the que of how abs cau pri , or fra - wor the , mig the be lea is a maj ope que in bot art int and cog dev .
for som sim kin of fra kno - led , suc as the pro gra gra dis abo , it is pos to for the lea pro as a bay inf tha can be app wit tra sea alg .
the inn rel mod ( irm ) ( 123 ) ass tha var com in one or mor cla , wit rel bet the dep on the cla .
the mod can be use to inf the num of cla , whi var are in whi cla , and wha kin of rel hol bet cla , dir fro dat ( fig 123 ) .
thi app is cap of lea the abs pri of the dis the sho in fig 123 , but not the ric the bas on pro - lis pre log nee to exp inf in som oth sys suc as the bli det ( fig 123 ) .
sev met for lea in pro log sys hav rec bee int in art int ( 123 , 123 ) , how , and the met cou pro the bas for mor pow mod of hum
the the - bas bay fra pro a for mea to add sev fun que abo hum cog .
wha is the con and for of hum kno , at mul lev of abs ? how can abs dom kno gui lea of new con ? how can abs dom kno be lea ? wha con res mus be bui in inn ? how do mec of sta lea and
que for fut res how mig the - bas bay mod app to oth asp of cog whe str kno and ind inf app to int , suc as int phy , int psy , or can bay mod of con lea and wor lea be int wit bay mod of syn acq ( 123 ) to giv a uni app to lan dev ? how do bay mod of ind inf rel to pro mod of ( app ) ded thi , suc as hyp tes or syl rea ( 123 ) ? cou a hie bay app pro ins int oth fun of int the bes ind , suc as ana or lik oth the par , the bay app is not mea to be fal in the sam sen tha a spe com - tat mod sho be; it sho be jud in ter of whe it lea to spe mod wit exp val acr a ran of dif dat set .
wha asp of int the and the - bas inf wil pro dif to exp fro a bay vie ? how cou bay app to ind con her str at the lev of com the ( 123 ) be imp wit tra alg ? how can the can be rec wit psy pro tha hav som loo dra inc wit bay pri ( 123 ) ? phi of sci and dev psy hav oft exc ide abo the str , fun , and ori of the .
can we bui hie bay mod of sci the ana to our mod of int the ?
tre in cog sci vol . 123 no . 123 jul 123
inf int wit and ope ove str sym kno ? tra , acc tha aim to exp a bro spe of hum cog hav foc exc on eit sop inf pro or sop kno rep - tat .
our vie emb bot , and hig
it is far too soo to say wha a mat com the of ind lea and rea wil loo lik .
the rea - wor pro tha chi and adu fac are sti wel bey the sco of our mod , and iss of alg and psy pla wil hav to be add ( see box 123 , and edi whe nex ? in thi iss ) .
yet as fut wor on ind unf , one ide sho pla a cru rol in any exp acc : pro inf ove hie of inc abs , exi str rep of the wor .
we tha the cur and pas mem of the com cog sci gro at mit for inn dis of the wor des her .
we owe par deb to fei xu , pat sha , and sou niy , who hav col clo on the pro des her .
we ack sup fro ntt com sci lab , mit ele res lab , the nat sci fou , the jam s .
mcd fou cau lea col , the pau e .
new car dev cha ( j . b . t . ) , the sta gra fel ( t . l . g . ) , and the wil asb alb mem gra fel ( c . k . ) .
sup dat ass wit thi art can be fou at doi : 123 / j . tic . 123 . 123
