one of the rst pro inf mus sol as the are acq lan is wor seg : wor bou in con spe .
abo 123 of utt - anc dir at eng - lea inf con of iso - lat wor ( bre & sis , 123 ) , but the is no obv way for chi to kno fro the out whi utt the are .
sin mul - wor utt gen - all hav no app pau bet wor , chi mus be usi oth cue to ide wor bou .
in fac , the is evi tha inf use a wid ran of wea cue for wor seg .
the cue inc pho -
* cor aut .
tel . : +12 123 123 123
e - mai add : sgo . ed . ac . uk , sgw . com ( s
123 - 123 / $ - see fro mat 123 els b . v .
all rig res .
tic ( mat , jus , luc , & mor , 123 ) , all var ( jus , hoh , & bau , 123 ) , met ( str ) pat ( jus , hou , & new , 123 mor , bon , & tra , 123 ) , eff of coa ( joh & jus , 123 ) , and sta reg in the seq of syl fou in spe ( saf , asl , & new , 123 ) .
thi las sou of inf can be use in a lan - ind way , and see to be use by inf ear tha mos oth cue , by the age of 123 mon ( thi & saf , 123 ) .
the fac hav cau som res to pro tha str bas on sta seq inf are a cru rst ste in boo wor seg ( thi & saf , 123 ) , and hav pro a gre dea of int in the str ( asl , saf , & new , 123 saf , new - por , & asl , 123 saf et al . , 123 tor , sin , & sot - far , 123 ) .
in thi pap , we use com
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
mod tec to exa som of the ass und muc of the res on sta wor
mos pre wor on sta wor seg is bas on the obs tha tra fro one syl - lab or pho to the nex ten to be les pre at wor bou tha wit wor ( har , 123 saf - fra et al . , 123 ) .
beh res has sho tha in - fan are ind sen to thi kin of pre , as mea by sta suc as tra pro ( asl et al . , 123 saf et al . , 123 ) .
thi res , how , is agn as to the mec by whi in - fan use sta pat to per wor seg - tio .
a num of res in bot cog sci and com sci hav dev alg bas on tra pro , mut sim sta of pre in ord to cla how the sta can be use pro to ide wor or wor bou ( and & lee , 123 coh & ada , 123 fen , che , den , & zhe , 123 swi , 123 ) .
her , we tak a dif app : we see to ide the ass the lea mus mak abo the nat of lan in ord to cor seg nat - ura lan inp .
obs abo pre at wor bou are con wit two dif kin of ass abo wha con a wor : eit a wor is a uni tha is sta ind of oth uni , or it is a uni tha hel to pre oth uni ( but to a les deg tha the beg of a wor pre its end ) .
in mos art lan - gua exp on wor seg , ass is ado imp by cre sti thr ran ( or nea - ran ) con of non wor .
thi kin of ran con is oft nec - sar for con exp wit hum sub , and has bee use in dem tha hum are sen to the sta reg in suc ran gen seq .
how , it obv abs awa fro man of the com of nat lan , whe reg exi not onl in the rel bet sub - wor uni , but als in the rel bet wor the .
we kno tha hum are abl to use sub - wor reg to beg to ext wor it is nat - ral to ask whe att to the kin of reg is suf for a sta lea to suc wit wor seg in a mor nat set .
in thi pap , we use com sim to exa lea fro nat , rat tha art , lan inp .
we ask wha kin of wor are ide by a lea who ass tha wor are sta ind , or ( alt ) by a lea who ass as wel tha wor are pre of lat wor .
we inv thi que by dev two dif bay mod of wor seg inc eac of the two dif ass .
the mod can be see as ide lea : the are de - sig to beh opt giv the ava inp dat , in thi cas a cor of pho tra chi - di -
usi our ide lea app , we nd in our rst set of sim tha the lea who ass tha wor are sta ind uni ten to und
the cor , ide com co - occ seq of wor as sin wor .
the res see to con wit tho of sev ear mod ( bat , 123 bre , 123 ven , 123 ) , whe sys und was not fou eve whe wor wer ass to be ind .
how , we arg her tha the pre res are mis .
alt eac of the lea is bas on a pro mod tha de - nes an opt sol to the seg pro , we pro bot emp and ana evi tha the seg fou by the lea are not the opt - mal one .
rat , the are the res of lim imp by the par lea alg emp .
fur mat ana sho tha und is the opt sol to the lea pro for any rea - son den mod tha ass sta ind - den bet wor .
mov on to our sec set of sim , we nd tha per the lea to gat inf abo wor - to - wor dep gre red the pro of und .
the cor is seg in a muc mor acc , adu - lik way .
the res ind - cat tha , for an ide lea to ide wor bas on sta pat of pho or syl , it is imp - tan to tak int acc tha fre pre pat - ter may occ eit wit wor or acr wor .
thi kin of dua pat is a res of the hie str of lan , whe pre pat occ at man dif lev .
a lea who con pre - abi at onl one lev ( sub - wor uni wit wor ) wil be les suc tha a lea who con als the pre of lar uni ( wor ) wit the sen - ten con .
the sec , mor nua int of the sta pat in the inp lea to bet
our wor has imp imp for the und - sta of hum wor seg .
we sho tha suc - ass tha the lea mak abo the nat of wor .
the ass con the kin of inf - enc tha are mad whe the lea is pre wit nat inp .
our ide lea ana all us to exa the kin of con tha are nee to suc - ces ide wor , and sug tha inf or you chi may nee to acc for mor sub sta ef - fec tha hav typ bee dis in the lit .
to dat , the is lit dir evi tha ver you lan - gua lea app ide lea .
nev , thi sug is not com unf , giv the acc evi in fav of hum as ide lea in oth dom or at oth age ( fra , gol , man - ing , gri , & ten , 123 sch , bon , & gri , 123 xu & ten , 123 ) .
in ord to fur exa whe inf beh as ide lea , or the way in whi the dep fro the ide , it is imp to rst und wha beh to exp fro an ide lea .
the the res pre her pro a cha of thi beh , and we hop tha the wil pro ins for fut exp wor inv the rel bet hum lea and ide lea .
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
the rem of thi pap is org as fol .
fir , we bri rev the ide of tra pro and how the rel to the not of wor , and pro som bac on the pro mod app tak her .
we dra a dis bet two kin of pro mod - bas sys tho bas on max - mum - lik and bay est and arg in fa - vor of the bay app .
we dis in som det the str and wea of the mod - bas dy - nam pro ( mbd - 123 ) sys , a bay lea des by bre ( 123 ) .
nex , we int our own bay uni mod and lea alg , whi add som of the wea of mbd - 123
we pro the res of sim usi thi mod and com the to the res of pre pro mod .
we the gen our uni mod res usi add - tio emp and the arg , rev som dee mat sim bet our uni mod - el and mbd - 123
fin , we ext our mod to inc - rat big dep , pre the res of thi big mod , and con by dis the imp of our wor .
wor and tra pro
the que of how inf beg to seg wor fro con spe has ins a gre dea of re - sea ove the yea ( jus , 123 ) .
whi man dif - ent cue hav bee sho to be imp , her we foc on one par cue : sta reg in the se - que of sou tha occ in nat lan .
the ide tha wor and mor bou may be dis - ere thr the use of sta inf is not new , but ori the met wer see pri as ana - lyt too for lin ( har , 123 , 123 ) .
mor re - cen , evi tha inf are sen to sta dep bet syl has len wei to the ide tha thi kin of inf may act be use by hum lea for ear wor seg ( saf et al . , 123 thi & saf , 123 ) .
in par , re - sea on sta wor seg has foc on the not of tra pro bet sub - wor uni ( e . g . , seg or syl ) .
the tra pro - bil fro ( say ) syl x to syl y is sim the con - dit pro of y giv x .
in nat lan , the is a gen ten tow low tra pro - iti at wor bou tha wit wor ( har , 123 saf et al . , 123 ) , a ten whi inf see abl to exp in ord to seg wor - lik uni fro con - tin spe ( asl et al . , 123 saf et al . , 123 ) .
whi oth cue are als imp for wor seg - tio , and may in fac tak pre ove tra pro in old inf , tra pro see to be one of the ear cue tha inf are abl to use for thi tas ( joh & jus , 123 thi & saf , 123 ) .
muc of the exp wor dev to stu wor seg and rel lin tas has fo - cus on exp the kin of sta inf tha hum lea are or are not sen to , e . g . , tra - sit pro vs .
fre ( asl et al . , 123 ) ,
syl vs .
pho ( new , wei , asl , & won - in pre ) , adj vs .
non - adj dep - den ( new & asl , 123 ) , and the way in whi tra pro int wit oth kin of cue ( joh & jus , 123 thi & saf , 123 , 123 ) .
in add , man res hav exp the ext to whi wor seg bas on tra - tio pro can be vie as a spe cas of mor gen pat - or seq - lea mec tha ope ove a ran of cog dom ( cre , new , & asl , 123 fis & asl , 123 ) .
a que tha has rec les exp att is how the not tra pro rel to the not of wor .
tra pro are a pro of the bou bet wor ( or uni wit wor ) , but ult it is the wor the , rat tha the bou , tha are of int to the lan lea / it beh us , the , to con wha pos pro of wor ( or , mor acc , wor se - que ) cou giv ris to the pat of tra pro tha are typ dis in the lit , i . e .
low pro at wor bou and hig pro wit wor .
giv a lex of wor , one way tha the sta pat of tra pro can ari is by cho - ing wor ind at ran fro the lex and str the tog to for a seq .
to a rst app , thi is the pro tha is typ use to gen sti for mos of the exp men abo . 123 the are man goo rea to gen exp - men sti in thi way , esp whe the foc of re - sea is on tra pro : cho wor at ran con for pos ord eff and oth con - fou , and lea to sim and sys pat of tra - sit pro .
how , the is cle ano way we cou gen a seq of wor , by cho eac wor con on the pre wor or wor .
dep - ing on the str of the wor - to - wor dep , tra - sit pro bet wor may be low or hig .
in gen , if the str of the dep bet wor is var , the in a non - ind seq of wor , wor bou wil sti ten to be ass wit low tra pro ( sin man pai of wor wil not be hig dep ) .
how , the wil als be wor bou wit rel hig tra pro ( whe two wor are hig ass , as in rub duc or tha a ) .
the mod tha we dev in thi pap are des to exa the res of mak the two dif ass abo the nat of lan : tha wor are sta ind uni , or tha the are pre - tiv uni .
in thi abo the dif bet lea - ers mak eac of the two kin of ass , we fra the iss in ter of the spa of lin hyp -
123 the wor in exp sti are nev cho com ind , due to res aga imm rep of wor .
whe the lex is sma , thi lea to sig dev fro ind .
how , as the lex siz gro , seq wit rep wil bec mor and mor sim to tru ind
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
ese ( loo , gra ) tha eac lea con .
no - tic tha a lea who ass tha utt are for fro seq of ind cho wor is mor re - str tha a lea who ass tha wor may pre - dic oth wor .
the sec lea is abl to lea gra tha des eit pre or non - pre seq of wor , whi the rst lea can onl lea gra for non - pre seq of wor .
if wor are tru ind , the the rst lea may hav an adv due to the pre of the str con , bec thi lea has a muc sma spa of hyp - ses to con .
on the oth han , the sec lea wil hav an adv in the cas whe wor are not ind - pen , bec the lea who ass ind wil nev be abl to con on the cor hyp .
bef des our imp of the two kin of lea , we rst out our gen app and pro - vid a sum of rel wor .
pro mod for wor seg
beh wor in the vei of saf et al .
( 123 ) has pro a wea of inf reg the kin of sta hum lea are sen to , at wha age , and to wha deg rel to oth kin of seg cue .
com mod pro a com met of inv tha can be use to tes spe hyp abo how sta inf mig be use pro to ide wor bou or wha und com pro is bei sol .
usi the ter of mar ( 123 ) , the two kin of que - tio can be inv by dev mod at ( res - tiv ) the alg lev or com lev of the acq sys .
typ , res inv alg - rit - lev que by imp alg tha are bel to inc cog pla mec - nis of inf pro .
alg - lev ap - pro to wor seg inc a var of neu net mod ( all et al . , 123 cai & shi - coc , 123 chr , all , & sei , 123 elm , 123 ) as wel as sev lea alg bas on tra - sit pro , mut inf , and sim sta - tis ( and & lee , 123 coh & ada , 123 fen et al . , 123 swi , 123 ) ( wit mos of the lat gro com fro the com sci lit ) .
in con to the pro , our wor pro a com - lev ana of the wor seg pro .
a com - lev app foc on ide the pro fac the lea and det - ing the log thr whi it can be sol .
for pro of ind suc as tho fac the lan lea , pro the pro a nat dev com - lev mod .
a pro is a set of dec mat sta spe the goa of the lea pro and the kin of inf tha wil be use to ach the .
of cou , the dec sta mus be pai wit som alg tha can be use to ach the spe goa , but gen the alg is not see as the foc of res .
rat , com - lev inv of - ten tak the for of ide lea ana , exa the
beh of a lea who beh opt giv the ass of the mod . 123
ver gen , we can vie the goa of a lan lea - ner as ide som abs rep of the ob - ser dat ( e . g . , a gra ) tha wil all nov lin inp to be cor int , and nov out - put to be cor pro .
man dif rep - tio are log pos , so the lea mus hav som way to det whi rep is mos lik to be cor .
pro mod pro a nat way to mak thi det , by cre a pro dis ove dif hyp rep giv the obs dat .
a lea who is abl to cor ide thi pos dis ove hyp can use thi inf to pro fut inp and out in an opt way ( i . e . , in a way tha is as sim as pos to the cor gen pro the adu gra ) .
und thi vie , the , the pos dis ove gra is the out of the lea pro .
how doe the lea go abo ide the pos dis ? bay rul tel us tha the pro of a hyp gra h giv the obs dat d can be com as
whe the sum in the den ran ove all hyp - ese h12 wit the hyp spa .
her , pdj ( kno as the lik ) is the pro of the obs dat giv a par hyp , and tel us how wel tha hyp - esi exp the dat .
ph ( the pri pro of h ) tel us how goo a lin hyp h is , reg of any dat .
the pri can be vie as a lea bia or mea of lin nat : hyp wit hig pri pro - abi may be ado bas on les evi tha hyp wit low pri pro .
bay rul sta tha the pos pro phj is pro to the pro of the lik and the pri , wit the den - tor act as a nor con to ens tha phj sum to one ove all hyp .
the lea can com the pos pro of dif hyp by eva - uat eac one acc to its exp pow ( lik - hoo ) and the lea pri exp .
bay rul ans the que of how to det the pos pro of a hyp if the pri pro - abi and lik are kno , but it doe not tel us how to com tho ter in the rst pla .
we tur rst to the cal of the lik .
typ , the lik is com by den a gen mod : a pro
123 a not on ter : the wor mod unf enc two rel but ( imp ) dis sen .
it can be use to des eit ( 123 ) a pro abo the nat of lea or its imp ( as in con mod , exe mod ) ; or ( 123 ) a spe mat - ica sta reg the pro gen a set of dat ( as in pro mod , gen mod ) .
a pro mod ( sec sen ) tog wit its lea alg can be vie as an ins of a lea mod ( rst sen ) .
to avo con , we wil gen use the ter mod onl for the sec sen , and the ter sys or lea to des the ful imp com of a pro mod and lea alg .
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
pro for gen the obs dat giv the hyp - esi und con .
as a sim non - lin exa - ple , ima the dat d con of the res of 123 coi ips and we wis to det the pro of d giv hyp h tha dif in the pro of ipp hea .
we ass a gen mod in whi eac obs is the res of ipp the sam coi , and tha coi alw has pro p of lan on hea ind of any pre out .
the set of hyp und con - ati con of all pos val for p .
we the hav pdj p pnh pnt , whe nh and nt are the num of hea and tai obs in a par se - que of ips .
max - lik est
a sta met of usi a pro gen mod for lea is to per max - lik est - mat , i . e . , to cho the hyp ^h tha max the val of the lik fun .
thi is equ to cho the hyp wit max pos pro - bil , ass a uni pri dis ove hyp - ese wit res to the giv par .
in the coi ip exa , it is eas to sho usi ele cal - cul tha the lik is max whe h nh thu , if we obs a seq con of fou tai and six hea , the max - lik est for h is
for mor com gen mod suc as tho typ - ica use in lan mod , it is usu imp to ide the max - lik hyp ana .
if the num of pos hyp is sma , it may be fea to exp com the lik for eac pos - ble hyp and cho the bes one .
how , in gen - era , it wil be nec to des som sor of alg for sea thr the spa of hyp wit eva all of the .
the ide alg wou be one
tha is gua to nd the glo opt hyp .
in man cas , how , app sea alg are use .
the alg gen wor by see the opt - mal hyp wit som loc reg of the sea spa .
app sea alg may be use for pra rea ( whe an exa pro is not kno , as in and ( 123 ) ) or for the rea ( if the re - sea wis to inc par ass abo hum lea , as in san , gri , & nav ( 123 ) ) .
in eit cas , cer hyp are exc fro con by the alg its .
con , the use of an app sea pro can mak a pur com - lev ana dif .
the kin of gen mad by the lea are det bot by the exp con spe by the pro mod , and the imp con spe by the sea pro .
exa of thi typ of lea sys are de - scr by ven ( 123 ) and bat ( 123 ) .
the mod und the sys are ver sim we des onl ven wor in det .
ven pro a met of wor seg - tio bas on max - lik est .
he dis - cus thr dif gen mod of inc com we foc our ana on the sim of the , alt our arg can be ext to all thr .
thi mod is a sta uni mod , i . e . , it ass tha wor are gen ind at obs dat con of a cor of pho tra - scr chi - dir spe , whe utt bou ( cor to pau in the inp ) are kno , but wor bou are unk ( see fig .
the pro - tic mod und thi sys des how to gen - ate a cor giv u , the num of utt in the cor the dis sym $ , whi is use to mar utt bou and r , the pho sym alp - bet ( whi doe not inc $ ) :
an exc fro the beg of the cor use as inp to ven ( 123 ) wor seg sys , sho ( a ) the act inp cor and ( b ) the cor sta ort tra .
the cor was ori pre by bre and car ( 123 ) usi dat fro ber - rat ( 123 ) , and was als use as inp to bre ( 123 ) mbd - 123 sys .
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
rep u tim :
rep unt $ is gen : 123
gen the nex wor , w , wit pro pww .
gen $ wit pro p$ .
whe pw is som pro dis ove r , the set of all pos wor .
as eac wor is gen , it is con - cat ont the pre gen seq of wor .
no bou mar is add unl the end - of - utt mar , $ , is gen .
und thi mod , the pro of gen wor w12 .
wn as a sin utt -
and the pro of gen the uns utt - anc u is fou by sum ove all pos seq of wor tha cou be con to for u :
the pro of the ent cor is the pro of the pro of the ind utt .
the hyp spa for thi mod con of all the pos ass - men of pro val to wor and the utt i . e . , pos val for p$ and the par of pw .
not tha in the hyp spa jus den , som cho of pw may ass non - zer pro to onl a - nit sub of pot wor .
dif hyp wil hav dif siz , i . e . , dif num of wor wil hav non - zer pro .
cru , how , no pre - enc is giv to hyp of any par siz the max - lik ass sta tha we sho cho whi hyp ass the hig pro - ity to the obs dat .
wha is the max - lik hyp und thi mod ? it is str to sho tha , in gen , the max - lik sol for a mod is the pro - ity dis tha is clo to the emp dis ( rel fre ) of obs in the cor , whe the dis is com by an inf the mea cal the kul div ( bis , 123 , p .
123 , int al . ) .
in the abo mod , the is one hyp tha is abl to mat the emp dis of the cor exa .
thi hyp tre eac utt as a sin wor , wit pro equ to the emp pro of tha utt in the cor , and ass p$ 123
in oth wor , thi sol mem the ent dat set wit seg utt at all , and ass zer pro to any uno utt .
int , any sol tha doe hyp wor bou wil req p$ < 123 , whi mea tha som uno utt - anc wil hav non - zer pro tho tha can be cre by , for exa , con two obs utt - anc , or rea the hyp wor int nov
ord .
sin som pro mas is all to the uno utt , the pro of the ob - ser dat mus be low tha in the cas whe p$ 123 and no gen is pos .
for a max - lik lea usi the mod in eq .
( 123 ) , the , onl a tri seg wil be fou un - les som con is pla on the kin of hyp tha are con .
cru , how , thi arg doe not dep on the par for of pw use in eq .
( 123 ) , whe wor are ass to be gen ind - den of con .
man oth pos dis ove wor wou yie the sam res .
ven , for exa , pre two oth mod in whi the uni dis pw is rep wit a big or tri dis - but : rat tha gen wor ind of con - tex , eac wor is gen con on eit one or two pre wor .
tha is , the big mod den
wn$ pw1
ess , the rea tha all of the mod yie the sam max - lik sol ( an uns cor - pus ) is tha the are all to con hyp wit arb num of ite .
whe com hyp wit dif lev of com ( cor - spo her to the num of wor typ in the hyp - esi ) , a max - lik lea wil gen pre a mor com hyp ove a sim one .
thi lea to the pro of ove , whe the lea cho a hyp tha ts the obs dat ver wel , but gen - ali ver poo to new dat .
in the cas of wor seg - tat , the sol of com mem all the lea to t the obs dat per .
sin we kno tha thi is not the sol fou by ven lea , we mus con tha the alg he pro to sea the spa of pos hyp mus be imp - ing add con bey tho of the mod the .
it sho be cle fro the pre dis tha thi is not the app adv her , sin it ren - der con imp and dif to exa .
bat - der ( 123 ) max - lik lea sys use an exp ext con to pen lex ite tha are too lon .
thi app is a ste in the rig dir , but is les mat pri tha bay mod - in whi a ( non - uni ) pri dis ove hyp is use wit the mod its to con lea .
we now rev sev of the bay mod tha ser as ins for our own wor .
bay mod
in the pre sec , we arg tha unc max - lik est is a poo way to cho bet hyp wit dif com .
in bay - ian mod , the eff of the lik can be cou - bal by cho a pri dis tha fav sim hyp .
sim hyp wil ten not to t the obs dat as wel , but wil ten to gen mor suc to nov dat .
by con bot the lik and pri in det the pos pro - ity of eac hyp , bay lea nat avo
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
the kin of ove tha max - lik lea enc .
the tra - off bet t and gen wil dep on exa how the pri is den we now des sev met tha hav bee use to den pri in pre bay mod .
per the mos wel - kno fra for den bay mod is kno as min des len ( mdl ) ( ris , 123 ) , and is exe by the wor of de mar ( 123 ) and bre and car ( 123 ) .
mdl is a par for of bay lea tha has bee use suc in a num of oth are of lan acq as wel ( cre & lag , 123 dow - man , 123 ell , 123 gol , 123 gol & joh , 123 ) .
the bas ide beh mdl is to den som enc sch tha can be use to enc the cor - pus int a mor com rep .
in wor seg - tat , for exa , a cod mig con of a lis of lex ite alo wit a bin rep for eac one .
wit app cho for the lex ite and bin rep ( wit sho rep ass to mor com wor ) , the len of the cor cou be red by rep eac wor wit its bin cod .
in thi fra , the lea hyp are dif pos - sib enc sch .
the min des len pri sta tha the opt hyp is the one tha min the com len , in bit , of the hyp it - sel ( the cod ) and the enc cor .
usi res fro inf the , it can be sho tha cho a hyp usi the mdl pri is equ to cho - ing the max a pos ( map ) hyp the hyp wit the hig pos pro und a bay mod whe the pri pro of a hyp - esi dec exp wit its len .
wor , mdl cor to a par cho of pri dis - tri ove hyp , whe hyp are pre if the can be des mor suc .
alt mdl mod can in pri pro goo wor seg res , the are no sta sea alg for the kin of mod , and it is oft dif - cul to des efc mod - spe alg .
for exa , bre and car ( 123 ) wer for to lim the ana to a ver sho cor ( abo 123 utt ) due to efc con .
in lat res , bre dev - ope ano bay mod for wor seg wit a mor efc sea alg ( bre , 123 ) .
he nam thi sys mod - bas dyn pro ( mbd - 123 ) . 123 sin we wil be ret to thi mod at var poi thr thi pap , we now des mbd - 123 in
unl mod dev wit the mdl fra , whe hyp cor to pos enc met - ods , mbd - 123 ass tha the hyp und con - ati are act seq of wor , whe eac wor is a seq of pho sym .
the inp cor con of pho tra utt of chi - dir spe , as in fig .
som wor seq , whe con - nat tog to rem wor bou , wil for ex -
123 the 123 in mbd - 123 was int as a ver num , alt bre
nev dev any lat ver of the sys .
act the str of sym fou in the cor , whi oth wil not .
the pro of the obs dat giv a par hyp seq of wor wil the eit be equ to 123 ( if the con wor for the cor ) or 123 ( if not ) .
con , onl hyp tha are con wit the cor mus be con .
for eac pos seg of the cor , the pos pro of tha seg wil be dir pro - tio to its pri pro .
the pri pro , in tur , is com usi a gen mod .
thi mod ass tha the seq of wor in the cor was cre in a seq of fou ste : 123
ste 123 : gen the num of typ tha wil be in the
ste 123 : gen a tok fre for eac lex typ .
ste 123 : gen the pho rep of eac typ ( exc for the sin dis utt - anc bou typ , $ ) .
ste 123 : gen an ord for the set of tok .
eac ste in thi pro is ass wit a pro dis ove the pos out of tha ste , so tog the fou ste den the pri pro dis - but ove all pos seg cor .
we dis the spe dis use in eac ste in app b; her it is suf to not tha the dis ten to ass hig pro to seg con few and sho lex ite , so tha the lea wil pre to spl utt int wor .
to sea the spa of pos seg of the cor , bre dev an efc onl alg .
the alg mak a sin pas thr the cor , seg - men one utt at a tim bas on the seg - tio fou for all pre utt .
the onl nat of thi alg is int to pro a mor rea sim of hum wor seg tha ear bat lea alg ( bre & car , 123 de mar - ken , 123 ) , whi ass tha the ent cor of dat is ava to the lea at onc ( i . e . , the lea may ite - ate ove the dat man tim ) .
in the rem of thi pap , we wil des two new bay mod of wor seg ins , in par , by bre wor .
lik bre , we use a gen mod - el - bas bay fra to dev our lea .
mor , as we pro in app b , our rst ( uni ) mod is mat ver sim to the mbd - 123 mod - el .
how , our wor dif fro bre in two res .
fir , our mod are mor exi , whi all us to mor eas inv the eff of dif mod ass .
in the , eac ste of bre mod can be ind mod , but in pra the mat sta of the mod and the app nec for the sea pro mak it dif to mod the mod in any int way .
in par , the fou ste ass a uni dis ove ord , whi
123 our pre inv a sma cha fro bre ( 123 ) , swi the ord of ste 123 and 123
thi cha mak no dif to the mod , but pro a mor nat gro of ste for pur of our ana in app b .
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
cre a uni con tha can eas be cha .
we do not sup tha bre was the mot in his cho of a uni mod , or tha he wou be op - pos to int wor - to - wor dep , mer tha the mod cho ava to him wer lim by the sta tec ava at the tim of his wor .
in thi pap , we mak use of mor exi rec tec tha all us to dev bot uni and bi - gra mod of wor seg and exp the dif - enc in lea tha res .
the sec key con of thi pap lie in our fo - cus on ana the pro of wor seg at the com lev by ens , to the bes of our abi , tha the onl con on the lea are tho imp by the mod its .
we hav alr sho tha the mod - el - bas app of ven ( 123 ) and bat - der ( 123 ) are con by the cho of sea alg in the fol sec we dem tha the app sea pro use by bre ( 123 ) pre his lea , too , fro ide the opt sol und his mod .
alt in pri one cou dev a bay mod wit the mdl or mbd fra - wor tha cou acc for wor - to - wor dep , the ass sea pro wou und be eve mor com tha tho req for the cur uni mod , and thu eve les lik to ide opt - mal sol .
bec our own wor is bas on mor re - cen bay tec , we are abl to dev sea pro usi a sta cla of alg kno as mar cha mon car met ( gil , ric , & spi , 123 ) , whi pro sam fro the pos - ter dis ove hyp .
we pro evi tha the sol ide by our alg are ind opt or nea - opt , whi all us to dra con - sio usi ide obs arg and to avo the obf eff of ad hoc sea pro .
uni mod
gen mod
lik mbd - 123 , our mod ass tha the hyp und con by the lea are pos seg - tio of the cor int seq of wor .
wor se - que tha are con wit the cor hav a lik of 123 , whi oth hav a lik of 123 , so the pos pro of a seg is det by its pri pro .
als as in mbd - 123 , we com the pri pro of a seg by ass tha the seq of wor in the seg was cre acc to a par pro gen pro .
let w w12 .
. w n be the wor in the seg .
set - tin asi the com fac of utt bou , our uni mod ass tha the ith wor in the se - que , wi , is gen as fol :
( 123 ) dec if wi is a nov lex ite .
. x m ) for wi .
if so , gen a pho for ( pho
if not , cho an exi lex for for wi .
we ass pro to eac pos cho as fol :
, pwi is not nov n ( 123 ) pwi is nov a12 ( 123 ) a .
pwi x12 .
. x m j wi is nov b .
pwi j wi is not nov n
whe a12 is a par of the mod , n is the num of pre gen wor ( i 123 ) , n is the num of tim lex ite has occ in tho n wor , and p# is the pro of gen a wor bou .
tak tog , the den yie the fol dis ove wi giv the pre wor wi fw1 .
. w i12 :
i 123 a12
i 123 a12
whe we use p12 to ref to the uni pho dis - tio in ste 123 .
( the p# and 123 p# fac in thi dis - tio res fro the pro use to gen a wor fro con pho : aft eac pho is gen , a wor bou is gen wit pro p# and the pro end , or els no wor bou is gen wit pro 123 p# and ano pho is gen . )
we now pro som int for the ass tha are bui int thi mod .
fir , not tha in ste 123 , whe n is sma , the pro of gen a nov lex ite is rel lar .
as mor wor tok are gen and n inc , the rel pro of gen a nov ite dec , but nev dis ent .
thi par of the mod mea tha seg wit too man dif lex ite wil hav low pro - bil , pro pre for the lea to ide a seg - men con of rel few lex ite .
in ste 123 , we den the pro of a nov lex ite as the pro of the pro of eac of its pho .
thi ens tha ver lon lex ite wil be str dis .
fin , in ste 123 , we say tha the pro of gen an ins of the lex ite is pro - tio to the num of tim has alr occ .
in ef - fec , the lea ass tha a few lex ite wil ten to occ ver fre , whi mos wil occ onl onc or twi .
in par , the dis ove wor fre - cie pro by our mod bec a pow - law dis - but for lar cor ( arr , bar , & tav , 123 ) , the kin of dis tha is fou in nat lan - gua ( zip , 123 ) .
the mod we hav jus des is an ins of a kin of mod kno in the sta lit as a dir - let pro ( fer , 123 ) .
the dir pro is com - mon use in bay sta as a non - par pri for clu mod , and is clo rel to and - son ( 123 ) rat mod of cat ( san et al . , 123 ) .
the dir pro has two par : the con par a12 and the bas dis p12
the con par det how man clu wil typ be fou in a dat set of a par siz ( her , how man wor typ for a par num of tok ) , and the bas dis det the typ cha of a clu ( her , the par pho in a wor typ ) .
a mor det mat tre
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
of our mod and its rel to the dir pro is pro in app a , but thi con lea us to re - fer to our uni mod of wor seg as the dir pro ( dp ) mod .
so far , the mod we hav des ass pro - tie to seq of wor whe the are no utt bou .
how , bec the inp cor con utt bou , we nee to ext the mod to ac - cou for the .
in the ext mod , eac hyp con of a seq of wor and utt bou , and hyp are con wit the inp if rem wor bou ( but not utt bou ) yie the inp cor .
to com the pro of a seq of wor and utt bou , we ass tha thi seq was gen usi the mod abo , wit the add of an ext ste : aft eac wor is gen , an utt bou mar $ is gen wit pro - bil p$ ( or not , wit pro 123 p$ ) .
for sim , we wil sup thi por of the mod in the mai bod of thi pap , and ref the rea to app a for
we hav now den a gen mod tha all us to com the pro of any seg of the inp cor .
we are lef wit the pro of inf , or act ide the hig pro seg - tio fro amo all pos .
we use a met kno as gib sam ( gem & gem , 123 ) , a typ of mar cha mon car alg ( gil et al . , 123 ) in whi var are rep sam fro the con pos dis giv the cur val of all oth var in the mod .
gib sam is an ite pro in whi ( aft a num of ite use as a bur - in per to all the sam - ple to con ) eac suc ite pro a sam fro the ful pos dis phj .
our sam , the var of int are pot wor bou , eac of whi can tak on two pos val - ues , cor to a wor bou or no wor bou .
bou may be ini at ran or usi any oth met ini doe not mat sin the sam wil eve con to sam fro the pos dis . 123 eac ite of the sam con of ste thr eve pos bou loc and res its val con on all oth cur bou pla .
sin eac set of ass to the bou var uni det - min a seg , sam bou is equ to sam seq of wor as our hyp .
alt gib sam is a bat lea alg , whe the ent dat set is ava to the lea at onc , we not tha the are oth sam tec kno as par lte ( dou , and , & god , 123 san et al . , 123 ) tha can be use to pro
123 of cou , our poi tha ini doe not mat is a the one in pra , som ini may lea to fas con tha oth , and che tha dif ini lea to the sam res is one way of tes for con of the sam , as we do in app a .
app of the pos dis in an onl fas ( exa eac utt in tur exa onc ) .
we ret in the gen dis to the que of how a par lte mig be dev for our own mod in the fut .
ful det of our gib sam alg are pro in app a .
to fac com to pre mod of wor seg , we rep res on the sam cor use by bre ( 123 ) and ven ( 123 ) .
the dat is de - riv fro the ber cor ( ber - rat - ner , 123 ) of the chi dat ( mac & sno , 123 ) , whi con ort tra of utt dir at 123 - to 123 - mon - old .
the dat was pos - pro by bre , who rem dis and non - wor , dis par utt not dir - ted at the chi , and con the res of the wor int a pho rep usi a pho dic - nar ( i . e .
eac ort for was alw giv the sam pho for ) .
the res cor con 123 utt , wit 123 , 123 wor tok and 123 un - iqu typ .
the ave num of wor per utt is 123 and the ave wor len ( in pho ) is 123 .
the wor bou in the cor are use as the gol sta for eva , but are not pro in the inp to the sys ( exc for wor bou tha are als utt bou ) .
the pro use to cre thi cor mea tha it is mis man of the com of rea chi - dir spe .
not the lea of the is the aco var wit whi dif tok of the sam wor are pro - duc , a fac whi pre mak wor seg - tio mor dif .
on the oth han , the cor is als mis man cue whi cou aid in seg , suc as coa inf , str , and dur .
whi thi ide of chi - dir spe is som unr , the cor doe pro a way to inv the use of pur dis cue for seg , and per dir com to oth wor seg -
eva pro
for qua eva , we ado the sam mea - sur use by bre ( 123 ) and ven ( 123 ) : pre - cis ( num of cor ite fou out of all ite fou ) and rec ( num of cor ite fou out of all cor ite ) .
the mea are wid in the com lin com the sam mea are oft kno as acc and com in the cog - tiv sci com ( bre & car , 123 chr - tia et al . , 123 ) .
we als rep res in ter of f12 ( ano com met use in com lin - gui , als kno as f - mea or f - sco ) .
f12 is the geo - met ave of pre and rec , den as , and pen res whe pre and rec are ver dif .
we rep the fol sco for eac mod we pro :
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
ari mus be cor ide to cou as cor .
p , r , f : pre , rec , and f12 on wor : bot bou - lp , lr , lf : pre , rec , and f12 on the lex , i . e .
bp , br , bf : pre , rec , and f12 on pot amb - uou bou ( i . e .
utt bou are not inc in the cou ) .
as an exa , ima a one - utt cor who cor - rec seg is loo at the big dog the , whe ins we nd the seg loo at the big g the re .
the are sev wor in the fou seg , and six in the tru seg thr of the wor mat .
we rep all sco as per , so p = 123 ( 123 / 123 ) , r = 123 ( 123 / 123 ) , and f = 123 .
sim , bp = 123 ( 123 / 123 ) , br = 123 ( 123 / 123 ) , bf = 123 , lp = 123 ( 123 / 123 ) , lr = 123 ( 123 / 123 ) , and lf = 123 .
not tha if the lea cor ide all of the bou in the tru sol - tio , but als pro ext bou ( ove - tio ) , the bou rec wil rea 123 , but bou pre and bou f12 wil be low .
con , if the lea pro no inc bou , but fai to ide all of the tru bou ( und ) , the bou pre wil be 123 , but bou rec and f12 wil be low .
in eit cas , sco for wor tok and lex ite wil be bel 123 .
for com , we rep sco as wel for bre mbd - 123 sys ( bre , 123 ) and ven n - gra seg sys ( ven , 123 ) , whi we wil ref to as ngs - u and ngs - b ( for the uni and bi - gra mod ) .
bot bre and ven use onl sea pro ( i . e . , the sys mak a sin pas thr the dat , seg eac utt in tur ) , so in the pap the cal pre and rec sep - rat on eac 123 - utt blo of the cor and gra the res to sho how sco cha as mor dat is pro - ces .
the do not rep lex rec or bou pre - cis and rec .
the res are rat noi , but per see to sta rap , aft abo 123 utt .
to fac com wit our own res , we cal sco for mbd - 123 and ngs ove the who cor , usi ven imp of the
sin our alg pro ran seg sam fro the pos dis rat tha a sin - gle opt sol , the are sev pos way to eva its per .
for mos of our sim , we eva a sin sam tak aft 123 , 123 ite .
we use a met kno as sim ann ( aar & kor , 123 ) to spe con of the sam , and in som cas ( not bel ) to obt an app of the map sol by con sam aro the mod of the pos .
thi all us to exa pos dif bet a ran sam of the pos and a sam mor clo app the map seg - tio .
det of the ann and map app pro - ced can be fou in app a .
123 the imp are ava at htt : / / www . spe . sri . com /
( a ) var p# wit
123 = 123
val of p#
123 wit p# = . 123
f12 for wor ( f ) and lex ite ( lf ) in the dp mod ( a ) as a fun of p# , wit a12 123 and ( b ) as a fun of a12 , wit p# : 123
res and dis
the dp mod we hav des has two fre par - ter : p# ( the pri pro of a wor bou ) , and a12 ( whi aff the num of wor typ pro ) . 123 fig .
123 sho the eff of var of p# and a12
low val of p# res in mor lon wor , whi ten to imp rec ( and thu f12 ) in the lex .
the acc dec in tok acc is due to an inc ten for the mod - el to con sho wor tog , a phe we dis fur bel .
hig val of a12 all mor nov wor , whi als imp lex rec , but beg to de - gra pre aft a poi .
due to the neg cor bet tok acc and lex acc , the is no sin bes val for eit p# or a12
in the rem of thi sec , we foc on the res for p# : 123 a12 123 ( tho oth are qua sim we dis the bri
in tab 123 , we com the res of our sys to tho of mbd - 123 and ngs - u .
alt our sys has hig lex acc tha the oth , its tok acc is muc wor .
per doe not var a gre dea be - twe dif sam , sin cal the sco for a sin sam alr inv ave ove man ran - dom cho the cho of whe to pla a bou at eac loc or not .
tab 123 sho the mea and sta - dar dev in f12 sco and pos pro ove sam tak fro 123 ind run of the alg wit dif ran ini .
the sam sta
123 the dp mod act con a thi fre par , q , use as a pri ove the pro of an utt bou ( see app a ) .
giv the lar num of kno utt bou , the val of q sho hav lit eff on res , so we sim xed q 123 for all sim .
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
wor seg acc of uni sys .
not : p , r , and f are pre , rec , and f12 for wor tok bp , lp , etc .
are the cor sco for amb bou and lex ite .
bes sco are sho in bol .
dp res are wit p# : 123 and a12 123
res of the dp mod , ave ove mul sam .
sam ( 123 run ) sam ( 123 run )
not : tok f12 ( f ) , lex f12 ( lf ) , and neg log pos pro wer ave ove 123 sam fro ind run of our gib sam , ove 123 sam fro a sin run , and ove 123 sam fro ind run of our map app ( see tex ) .
sta dev - tio are sho in par .
are als pro for ten sam obt fro a sin run of the sam .
sam fro a sin run are not ind - pen , so to red the amo of cor bet the sam the wer tak at 123 - ite int ( at ite 123 , 123 , .
. , 123 ) .
nev , the sho les var tha the tru ind sam .
in bot cas , lex acc is mor var tha tok acc , pro bec the are far few lex ite to ave ove wit a sin sam .
fin , tab 123 pro res for the app map eva pro .
thi pro is cle imp , sin if it wer abl to ide the tru map sol , the wou be no dif in res acr mul run of the alg - rit .
in fac , com to the sta sam pro - dur , the is onl sli les var in f12 sco , and gre var in pro . 123 nev , the map app doe suc in ndi sol wit sig - ica hig pro .
the sol als hav hig lex acc , alt tok acc rem low .
the rea tha tok acc is so low wit the dp mod is tha it oft mis - ana fre occ wor .
man ins of the wor occ in com col suc as wha tha and do you , whi the sys - tem int as a sin wor .
thi pat of err is app in the bou sco : bou pre is ver hig , ind tha whe the sys pro a bou , it is alm alw cor .
bou rec is low , ind und .
we ana the beh of the sys mor car by exa the seg cor and lex .
a ful 123 of the pro lex and nea 123 of tok con of
123 the lar sta dev in the pro of the app map sol is due to a sin out .
the sta dev amo the rem nin sol is 123 , wel bel the sta dev in the sam sol , whe the are no out .
und ( col ) err , whi onl 123 of typ and 123 of tok are oth non - wor .
( som add - tio tok err , und 123 , are cau by pro a cor wor in an inc loc . ) abo 123 of col - cat ( bot typ and tok ) are com of two wor , nea all the res are thr wor .
to ill the phe , we pro the sys seg of the rst 123 utt in the cor in fig .
123 , and the 123 mos fre fou lex ite in fig .
the 123 mos fre col ide as sin wor by the sys are sho in fig
it is int to exa the col lis in fig .
123 wit ref to the exi lit on chi ear rep of wor .
pet ( 123 ) , in par , pro a num of exa of chi und - men err ( usi the pro as evi ) .
sev of the ful sen and soc con in fig .
123 ( e . g . , tha you , tha rig , bye bye , loo at thi ) are inc amo her exa .
in add , som of the oth col err fou by our uni sys mat the exa of for fra giv by pet : the ver int can you and nou int its a , thi is , tho are , and see the .
pho red in adu spe als sug tha a few of the col fou by the sys ( e . g . , did you , wha do you ) may eve be tre as sin uni by adu in som cir .
how , the ext and var of col fou by the sys is cer muc bro tha wha res - ers hav so far fou evi for in you chi .
we wil def for the mom any fur dis of whe chi ear wor rep are sim to tho fou by our dp mod ( we ret to thi iss in the gen dis ) , and ins tur to the que of why the uni are fou .
the ans see cle : gro of wor tha fre co - occ vio the uni - gra ass in the mod , sin the exh str wor - to - wor dep .
the onl way the lea can cap the dep is by ass tha the col are in fac wor the .
as an exa , con the wor tha .
in our cor , the emp pro - bil of the wor tha is 123 / 123 . 123
how , the emp pro of tha fol the wor wha is far hig : 123 / 123 . 123
sin the str cor be - twe wha and tha vio the ind ass - tio of the mod , the lea con tha wha mus be a sin wor .
not tha by cha the val of the par a12 and p# , it is pos to red the lev of und - tio , but onl sli , and at the cos of int oth
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
the rst 123 utt in the cor as seg by the dp mod ( rep ort for rea ) , ill tha the mod und the cor .
the sto nat of the gib sam pro is app : som seq , suc as you and get , rec two
err .
for exa , rai the val of p# to 123 str inc the mod pre for sho lex ite , but col sti mak up 123 of bot typ and tok in thi cas .
mea of tok acc inc by a few poi , but are sti wel bel tho of pre sys .
the mai qua dif bet res wit p# : 123 and p# : 123 is tha wit the hig val , inf - que wor are mor lik to be ove int ver sho one - or two - pho chu ( ree in a dro in lex acc ) .
how , fre wor sti ten to be und as bef .
it is als wor not tha , alt the pro of col in the lex fou by mbd - 123 and ngs - u is com to the pro fou by our own mod ( 123 ) , onl 123 of tok fou by the sys are col - cat err .
thi fac see to con our ana of the fai of our own uni mod , and rai a num - ber of que .
why don the oth uni mod exh the sam pro as our own ? is the som oth wea in our mod tha mig be cau or com - pou the pro wit und ? is it pos - sib to des a suc uni mod for wor seg ? we add the que in the fol -
oth uni mod
mbd - 123 and sea
in the pre sec , we sho tha the opt seg und our uni mod is one tha ide - es com col as ind wor .
our ear
dis of ven ( 123 ) ngs mod dem - str tha the opt sol und tho mod is a com uns cor .
wha abo bre ( 123 ) mbd - 123 mod ? whi the den of thi uni - gra mod mak it dif to det wha the opt - mal sol is , our mai con was whe it exh the sam pro wit und as our own uni mod .
the res pre by bre do not ind - cat und , but it tur out tha the res , lik ven , are inu by the app sea pro use .
we det thi by cal the pro of var seg of the cor un - der eac mod , as sho in tab 123
the res ind tha the mbd - 123 mod ass hig pro to the sol fou by our gib sam tha to the sol fou by bre own inc sea alg .
in oth wor , the mod und mbd - 123 doe fav the low - acc col sol , but bre app sea alg nds a dif sol tha has hig acc but low pro und the
we per two sim sug tha our own inf pro doe not suf fro sim pro .
fir , we ini the gib sam in thr dif way : wit no utt - int bou , wit a bou aft eve cha , and wit ran bou - ari .
the res wer vir the sam reg of ini - tia ( see app a for det ) .
sec , we cre an art cor by ran per all the wor in the tru cor and arr the int utt wit the sam num of wor as in the tru cor .
thi man cre a cor whe the uni ass -
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
res for the poo seg per on the nat lan cor .
in par , the uni ass of the mod see to be at fau .
in the fol - low sec we pre som add sim de - sig to fur tes thi hyp .
in the sim , we cha the mod of lex ite use in ste 123 of the mod , whi has so far ass tha lex ite are cre - ate by cho pho ind at ran .
if the ori poo lex mod is res for the dp mod und of the cor , the imp the lex mod sho imp per .
how , if the pro is tha the uni ass fai to ac - cou for seq dep in the cor , the a bet lex mod wil not mak muc dif .
the imp of the lex mod on wor seg
one pos imp to the lex mod is to re - pla the ass of a uni dis ove pho - nem wit the mor rea ass tha pho hav dif pro of occ .
thi ass is mor in lin wit the mbd - 123 and ngs mod .
in ngs , pho pro are est onl acc to the emp dis in the cor .
in mbd - 123 , pho - nem pro are als est onl , but acc to the emp dis in the cur lex .
for mod lik mbd - 123 and the dp mod , whe the pho - nem dis is use to gen lex ite rat tha wor tok , the lat app mak mor sen .
it is rel str to ext the dp mod to in - fer the pho dis in the lex sim wit inf the lex its .
bef imp thi ext , how , we tri sim xin the pho dis to the emp dis in the tru lex - con .
thi pro giv an upp bou on the per - man tha cou be exp if the dis wer lea .
we fou tha thi cha imp lex f12 som ( to 123 , wit a12 123 and p# : 123 ) , but mad al - mos no dif on tok f12 ( 123 ) .
inf of the pho - nem dis was the not imp .
the 123 mos fre ite in the lex fou by the dp mod ( lef ) and in the cor lex ( rig ) .
exc for the pho z and s , lex ite are rep ort for rea .
dif pos spe of a sin pho for are sep by sla .
the fre of eac lex ite is sho to its lef .
ite in the seg lex are ind as cor ( + ) or inc ( ) .
fre of cor ite in the seg lex are low tha in the tru lex bec man occ of the ite are acc for by col .
tio is cor .
if our inf pro wor pro , the uni sys sho be abl to cor ide the wor in the per cor .
thi is exa wha we fou , as sho in tab 123
the per of the dp mod jum dra , and mos err occ on inf wor ( as evi by the fac tha tok acc is muc hig tha lex acc ) .
in con - tra , mbd - 123 and ngs - u rec a muc sma ben fro the per cor , aga ind the inu
the res imp tha the dp mod its , rat tha the gib sam pro we use for inf , is
oth cha cou be mad to the lex mod in or - der to cre a bet mod of wor sha .
for exa , usi a big or tri pho mod wou all the lea to acq som not of pho .
bas the mod on syl rat tha pho cou inc - por con on the pre of vow or syl wei .
rat tha tes all the dif pos , we des a sim to det an app upp bou on per in the uni dp mod .
in thi sim , we pro the mod wit inf - tio tha no inf wou act hav acc to : the set of wor typ tha occ in the cor seg cor - pus .
the lex mod is den as fol :
ptr 123 123
whe l is the tru set of lex ite in the dat , and is som sma mix con .
in oth wor , thi mod is a mix bet a uni dis ove the tru lex - ica ite and the bas mod p12
if 123 , the mod is
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
the 123 mos fre occ ite in the seg lex tha con of mul wor fro the tru lex .
the ite are all ide as sin wor the tru wor bou hav bee ins for rea .
the fre of eac ite is sho to its lef .
neg log pro of var seg und eac uni
acc of the var sys on the per cor .
not : row hea ide the mod use to eva eac seg - tat .
col hea ide the dif seg : the tru seg , the seg wit no utt - int bou , and the seg fou by eac sys .
act log pro are 123 tho sho .
con so tha seg may onl con wor fro the tru lex .
if > 123 , a sma amo of noi is int so tha new lex ite are pos , but hav muc low pro tha the tru lex ite .
if the mod sti pos col whe is ver sma , we hav evi tha the uni ass , rat
not : p , r , and f are pre , rec , and f12 for wor tok bp , lp , etc .
are the cor sco for amb bou and lex ite .
bes sco are sho in bol .
dp res are wit p# : 123 and a12 123
tha any fai in the lex mod , is res for
the res fro thi mod are sho in tab 123
not sur , the lex f12 sco in thi mod are ver hig , and the is a lar imp in tok f12 sco aga pre mod .
how , amo of inf pro to the mod , its sco are sti sur low , and col rem a pro - lem , esp for fre ite .
gol et al .
/ cog 123 ( 123 ) 123
res of the dp mod usi ptr .
not : sho , for eac val of , is tok f12 ( f ) , lex f12 ( lf ) , and the per of tok and lex ite tha are mul - wor col .
con the cas whe 123 yie som in - sig int the per of the mod wit imp lex mod .
the sol fou , wit a lex con - ing of 123 col , has hig pro tha the tru sol .
thi is des the fac tha the mos pro - ble inc lex ite are abo ve ord of mag - tud les pro tha the tru lex inc lex ite are pro des the ext low pro bec onl the rst occ of eac wor is acc for by the lex mod .
sub occ are acc for by the par of the mod tha gen rep wor , whe pro are pro - tio to the num of pre occ .
the , low - pro lex ite inc no pen ( bey tha of any oth wor ) aft the rst occ .
thi is why the col rem in the dp mod usi ptr are the hig - fre col : ove man occ , the pro mas gai by mod the col as sin wor out the mas los in gen the
the res of thi sim sug tha the man of col fou by the uni dp mod are not due to the wea of the lex mod .
reg of how goo the lex mod is , it wil not be abl to com ove the inu of the uni ass gov - ern wor tok whe mod the ful cor .
in or - der to red the num of col , it is nec to acc for seq dep bet wor .
bef sho how to do so , how , we rst pre the res reg the gen of our con - sio abo uni mod .
mbd - 123 , the dp mod , and oth uni mod
the pro mod use in mbd - 123 and our dir pro mod app to qui dif gen - tiv pro .
to gen a cor usi mbd , the num - ber of wor typ is sam , the the tok fre , the the for of the wor in the lex , and nal an ord for the set of tok .
usi the dp mod , the len of the cor ( num of wor tok ) mus be cho -
123 the are 123 lex ite in the cor , so und the lex mod , the pro of eac of the is app 123
the are 123 pho and p# : 123 , so a sin - cha wor has pro . 123 und p12
mul by the dis fac 123 yie ptr 123 for one - cha wor not in the tru lex .
lon inc wor wil hav muc low pro .
sen , and the the seq of wor is gen , imp - itl det the num of wor typ and the lex .
alt the two app to gen a cor are ver dif , it is pos to sho tha , by var the spe dis ass at eac ste of the mbd - 123 gen pro , the two app can res in exa the sam dis ove wor se - que .
in app b we sho tha by cha how the siz of the lex and the tok fre are cho - sen in ste 123 and 123 of the mbd mod , we can pro dis ove wor tha are equ to the dis - but giv by the dp mod whe con on the to - tal num of wor .
