in man sit hum beh app tha of a bay ide obs , sug tha , at som lev , cog - nit can be des as bay inf .
how , a num of ndi hav hig an int mis bet hum beh and tha pre by bay inf - enc : peo oft app to mak jud bas on a few sam fro a pro dis , rat tha the ful dis - tri .
alt sam - bas app are a com - mon imp of bay inf , the ver lim num of sam use by hum see to be ins to app the req pro dis .
her we con thi dis in the bro fra of sta - tic dec the , and ask : if peo wer mak dec - sio bas on sam , but sam wer cos , how man sam sho peo use ? we nd tha und rea as - sum abo how lon it tak to pro a sam , loc sub dec bas on few sam are glo op - tim .
the res rec a lar bod of wor sho sam , or pro - mat , beh wit the hyp - esi tha hum cog is wel des as bay in - fer , and sug pro fut dir for stu of key : com mod bay mod pro - ces mod sam
acr a wid ran of tas , peo see to act in a man - ner con wit opt bay mod ( in per : kni & ric , 123 mot act : mal , tro - sha , & lan , 123 lan : cha & man , 123 dec mak : mck , 123 cau jud : gri - ths & ten , 123 and con lea : goo , ten , fel , & gri , 123 ) .
how , des thi sim bet bay ide obs and hum obs , two cru pro rem una acr the dom .
fir , hum beh oft app to be opt on ave , but not wit ind peo or in - div tri : wha are peo doi on ind tra to pro opt beh in the lon - run ave ? sec - ond , bay inf is str - for whe con sma lab tas , but int for lar - sca pro - lem lik tho tha peo fac in the rea wor : how can peo be car out gen int bay cal - lat in rea - wor tas ? her we wil arg tha bot of the pro can be res by con the alg tha peo may be usi to app bay inf .
the rst pro is hig by an int obs - tio fro goo et al .
( 123 ) abo per in cat - ego tas in whi peo see pos and neg exe of a cat and are the ask to gen any
jos b .
ten ( jbt . edu ) bra and cog sci , 123 vas st
cam , ma 123 usa
lea rul to new tes ite .
aft exp to sev cat - ego exe peo cla new tes ite con wit ful bay inf , on ave .
thi ave be - hav sug tha peo con man pos cla - tio rul , upd the bel abo eac one , and the cla - sif new ite by ave the cla ove all the pos - sib rul .
how , thi per bay beh is onl evi in the ave acr man obs .
eac ind cla all tes ite in a man con - ten wit onl one or a few rul whi rul are con var fro obs to obs acc to the app - ate pos pro ( goo et al . , 123 ) .
thu , it see tha an ind obs act bas on jus one or a few rul sam fro the pos dis , and the ful bay beh onl eme whe ave man ind , eac wit dif sam rul .
thi sam beh is not lim to con - lea tas .
in man oth hig - lev cog tas , ind pat of res and som eve res on ind - vid tri app to ree jus a sma num of sam fro the pos pre dis .
whe pre how lon a cak wil bak giv tha it has bee in the ove for 123 min ( gri & ten , 123 ) , the acr - sub var of res is con wit ind gue bas on onl two pri obs of cak bak tim ( moz , pas , & hom , 123 ) .
whe mak est of eso qua in the wor , mul gue fro one ind hav ind err , lik sam fro a pro - bil dis ( vul & pas , 123 ) .
in all of the cas ( and oth e . g . , xu & ten , 123 and , 123 san & gri , 123 ) , peo see to sam ins of com the ful bay ans .
cri of the bay app ( e . g . , moz et al . , 123 ) hav sug tha alt man sam may ade app bay inf , beh bas on onl a few sam is fun inc wit the hyp - esi tha hum cog is bay .
oth hig the sec pro and arg tha cog can be bay inf bec exa bay cal are com - tio int ( e . g . , gig , 123 ) .
in thi pap we wil arg tha act bas on a few sam - ple can be eas rec wit opt bay inf - enc and may be the met by whi peo app oth int bay cal .
we arg tha ( a ) sam beh can be und in ter of sen
sam - bas app to app int in - fer pro in bay sta and ai; ( b ) ver few sam fro the bay pos are oft suf to obt app pre tha are alm as goo as pre - dic com usi the ful pos and ( c ) on con - vat ass abo how muc tim it mig cos to pro - duc a sam fro the pos , mak pre bas on ver few sam ( eve jus one ) , can act be the glo - all opt str .
bay inf wit sam
bay pro the pre a nor met to com inf and mak inf abo the wor .
how , the cla tha hum cog can be des as bay inf doe not imp tha peo are doi exa bay inf .
exa bay inf amo to ful enu hyp spa eve tim bel are upd wit new dat .
in any lar - sca app , thi is com int , so inf mus be app .
thi is the cas in bay art int and sta , and thi mus app eve mor in hum cog , whe the rea - wor inf are vas mor com and res are tim - sen .
the nee for app bay in - fer lea two imp que .
for art int - gen and sta : wha kin of app met wor bes to app bay inf ? for cog sci and psy : wha kin of app met - ods doe the hum min use ?
in the tra of rat ana , or mar com - tio app ( mar , 123 ) , a rea str to an - swe the psy que beg wit goo ans to the eng que .
thu , we wil exp the hy - pot tha the hum min app bay inf - enc wit som ver of the alg str tha hav pro bes in ai and sta , on the gro of com - tio efc and acc .
in art int and sta , one of the mos com - mon met for imp bay inf is wit inf by sam is a pro to app a pro dis by rep - edl sim a sim sto pro whi pro alt fro a hyp spa acc to the pro - bil und the dis in que .
the res of any one suc sim is a sam .
wit suf man sam , the cal bas on the app app the exa cal usi the ana pro dis - but the
sam met are typ use bec the are app to a lar ran of com
123 mon car the sta tha the exp ove a
pro dis can be app fro sam :
ep ( s ) ( f ( s ) ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
f ( si ) , whe si p ( s ) .
mod and are mor rob to inc dim tha oth app met .
man cog pla sam alg exi and som spe one hav bee pro to acc for asp of hum beh ( gri , can , san , & nav , 123 lev , rea , & gri , 123 bro & ste , 123 ) .
for our pur , we nee onl ass tha a per - son has the abi to dra sam fro the hyp spa acc to the pos pro dis .
thu , it is rea to sup tha peo can app bay inf via a sam alg , and evi tha hum mak dec by sam is not in con wit the hyp - esi tha the com the are car out are bay .
how , rec wor sug tha peo bas the dec - sio on ver few sam ( vul & pas , 123 goo et al . , 123 moz et al . , 123 ) so few tha any cla of con to the rea pro dis do not hol .
alg usi onl two sam ( moz et al . , 123 ) wil hav pro qui dif fro ful bay int .
thi lea us wit the que : how bad are dec bas on few sam ?
bay and sam - bas age
to add the qua of dec bas on few sam , we wil con per of opt ( ful bay ) and sam - bas age in the com sce of cho - ing bet two alt .
man exp tas in psy are a var of thi pro : giv eve lea , mak a two - alt for - cho ( 123 ) re - spo .
mor , rea - wor tas oft col ont suc sim 123 dec , for ins : we mus dec whe to dri to the air via the bri or the tun , dep - ing on whi rou is lik to hav lea tra .
alt thi dec wil be inf by pri exp tha pro - duc int cog rep of pos tra ow , at one par jun the com rep col ont a pre abo a bin var and dec - sio : sho we tur lef or rig ?
sta dec the ( ber , 123 ) pre how inf and bel abo the wor and pos rew sho be com to den a pro dis ove pos pay for eac ava act ( mal , 123 kor , 123 yui & bul , 123 ) .
an age try to max pay ove man dec sho use the nor rul to det the exp pay of eac ac - tio , and cho the act wit the gre exp pay
thu , the sta for dec in sta dec the is to cho the act ( a ) tha wil max exp uti - ity und the pos pre dis ove pos wor sta ( s ) giv pri dat ( d ) , ass tha act and sta uni det the uti obt :
a = arg
123 age mig hav oth goa , e . g . , max the min - mum pos pay ( i . e . , ext ris ave ) ; how , we wil not con sit in whi suc goa are lik .
if the wor sta is suf spe , 123 dec map ont a pre abo whi of two act ( a12 and a12 ) wil hav hig exp uti for ins : wil we spe les tim in tra tak the bri or the tun ? the - for , cho amo two alt amo to pre the out of a ber tri : wil a12 or a12 hav gre uti ? thu , p ( a = a12 ) p and p ( a = a12 ) ( 123 p ) , and we can sim par the dec in ter of the pos pre pro p .
for sim , we wil con cho the hig - uti act a cor cho , and cho the low - uti act an inc cho .
the ful bay age wil cho the mor lik alt - tiv , and wil be cor p pro of the tim ( we ass p is bet 123 and 123 , giv sym ) .
a sam - bas age wou sam pos wor sta , and mak dec bas on tho sam wor sta ( sn ) :
a = arg
so in the cas of mak pre bet two alt - tiv one of whi may be cor , the sam - bas age sho cho the act cor to the mos fre out in the set of sam wor sta .
thu , a sam - bas age dra k sam wil cho a par out - com wit pro q :
q = 123 cdf (
whe cdf is the bin cum den fun and k / 123 is rou dow to the nea int .
thi sam - bas age wil be rig wit pro qp+ ( 123 ) ( 123 p ) .
goo dec fro few sam
fig 123 : inc err rat for the sam - bas age ove the opt age as a fun of the ber tri pro and the num of sam dra for a dec ( dec bas on 123 sam not sho ) .
so , how muc wor wil suc 123 dec be if the are bas on a few sam rat tha the ful bay
inf ? ber est tha mor tha 123 , 123 sam - ple are req for mor cer abo the tru pro - bil of a two - alt eve ( sti , 123 ) .
alt ber cal wer bas on dif der tha tho whi are now acc ( sti , 123 ) , it is un - den tha inf bas on a sma num of sam dif fro the ful bay sol and wil con gre err , but how bad are the dec bas on thi
in fig 123 we plo the dif in err rat bet the sam - bas and opt age as a fun of the un - der pro ( p ) and num of sam ( k ) .
whe p is nea 123 , the is no use in obt any sam ( sin a per inf dec wil be as lik to be cor as a ran gue ) .
whe p is 123 ( or clo ) , the is muc to be gai fro a sin sam sin tha one sam wil ind - cat the ( nea - det cor ) ans how , sub sam are of lit use , sin the rst one wil pro all the gai the is to be had .
mos of the ben of lar num of sam occ in int pro val ( aro 123 and low ) .
fig 123 : ( a ) the max and exp inc in err for the sam - bas age com to the opt age as a fun of num of sam ( see tex ) .
( b ) exp and max gai in acc fro an add sam as a fun of the num of sam alr obt .
sin the sam - bas age doe not kno wha the tru pro p may be for a par dec we can con the sce suc an age sho exp : the ave sce - nar ( exp ove p ) and the wor cas sce ( max - miz of the los ove p ) .
the are dis in fig 123 ass a uni pro dis ove p .
the dev - ati fro opt per dec to neg lev - els wit ver few sam , sug tha the sam - bas age nee not hav mor tha a few sam to app ide per .
we can go fur to ass jus how muc is gai ( in ter of dec err rat ) fro an add sam ( fig 123 ) .
aga , the vas maj of acc is gai wit the rst sam , and sub sam do ver lit to imp per .
thu , eve tho few sam wil not pro a ver ac - cur est of p den not suf to hav mor
123 con mor cer to be at lea 123 : 123 odd
tha the tru rat wil be wit 123
123 of the mea rat .
fig 123 : exp uti per dec , the num of dec tha can be mad per uni tim , and the exp rat of ret ( uti per uni tim ) as a fun of the ber pro and the num of sam ( wit an exa act / sam cos rat of 123 ) .
cer the are suf to cho an act : we do not nee mor cer to act opt .
how man sam for a dec ?
let tak ser the hyp tha peo mak inf - enc bas on sam .
if thi is the cas , how man sam - ple sho peo use bef mak a dec ? for in - sta , how man pos arr of tra acr the cit sho we con bef dec whe to tur lef for the tun or rig for the bri ? con one suc pos req con tho and eff it see obv tha we sho not pau at the int for sev - era hou and enu all the pos .
it als see lik tha we sho jus tur lef or rig at ran wit - out any con .
so , how man sam sho we tak : how har sho we thi ?
det an opt ans to thi met - cog pro req tha we spe how muc a sam may cos ? to be con ( and for the sak of sim ) , we wil ass tha a sam can onl cos tim it tak som amo of tim to con up an alt out , pre - dic its val , and upd a dec var .
thu , if a giv sam is fre ( cos 123 tim ) , the we sho tak inn man sam , and mak the bes de - cis pos eve tim .
if a sam cos 123 uni of tim , and the act tim ( the tim tha it wou tak us to act onc we hav cho to do so ) is als 123 uni of tim , the we sho tak zer sam we sho gue ran .
to mak thi pec res int , let be con : if we hav 123 sec - ond , and the act tim is xed to be 123 sec , the we can mak 123 ran dec , whi wil be rig 123 of the tim , thu giv us an exp rew of $12
if tak a sin sam to imp our dec wil cos an add sec per dec , the if we tak one sam per dec , eac dec wil tak 123 sec , and we cou mak at mos 123 of the .
it is imp for the exp rew fro thi str to be gre tha gue ran , sin eve if 123 of the dec are cor , onl $12 wil be gai .
mor , sin 123 acc bas on one sam is ex - tre unl ( thi cou onl ari in a com det -
min pre tas ) , sub les rew sho be exp .
thu , if obt a sam tak as lon as the act , and we do not get pun for an inc ans , we sho dra zer sam per dec and mak as man ran dec as we can .
mor gen , we can par - ete how muc a sam cos as the rat bet the tim req to mak an act and the tim req to ob - tai one sam ( act / sam rat ) int , a mea of how man sam it wou tak to dou the tim spe on a dec .
the exp acc for a sam - bas age ( pre sec ) giv us the exp uti per dec as a fun - tio of k ( the num of sam ) and p ( the ber tri pro fig 123 ) , and the uti fun .
we con two uti fun for the 123 cas : no pun cor - rec : gai 123 inc los 123 ) and sym cor : gai 123 inc : los 123
giv one par act / sam tim rat , we can com the num of dec mad per uni tim ( fig 123 ) .
mul the two fun tog yie the exp uti per uni tim ( fig 123 ) .
sin p is unk to the age , an ide k mus be cho - sen by tak the exp ove p .
thi mar ( ass a uni dis ove p ) for man dif act / sam tim rat is dis in fig 123
it is cle tha as sam bec che , one is bes adv to tak mor of the con to the lim of inn man sam - ple whe the sam are fre ( the act / sam tim rat
in fig 123 we plo the opt num of sam as a fun of the act / sam tim rat .
rem , for rat les tha 123 , one is bes adv to mak dec bas on onl one sam if the uti fun is sym - ric .
mor , wit no pun for inc ans , the act / sam tim rat mus be 123 or gre bef tak any sam ( mak a gue tha at all edu , rat tha ful ran ) bec a pru cou of act .
thu , un - der som ass abo how muc it cos to thi , mak - ing gue bas on ver few sam ( e . g . , one ) is the bes cou of act : mak man loc sub dec qui is the glo opt str .
fig 123 : exp uti per dec , num of dec per uni tim , and exp uti per uni tim ( rat of ret ) as a fun of the num of sam and act / sam cos rat .
act / sam cos rat are log spa bet 123 ( red ) and 123 ( yel ) .
in the las gra the sol cir ind the opt num of sam at tha act / sam cos rat .
( the uti fun use for thi gur con no pun for an inc cho and +12 for a cor cho . )
dis .
mor , we sho tha giv rea as - sum abo the tim it tak to pro an exa sam , a pol of mak dec bas on ver few sam ( eve jus one ) is glo opt , max lon - run uti .
in thi pap we con sam - bas dec abo pre of var tha had not bee pre obs pre com thr bay inf ove la - ten var and str in the wor .
how , a lar pri lit on pro mat ( her , 123 vul , 123 ) has stu a ver sim phe in a in pro mat , sub pre the out of a tri bas on the rel fre wit whi tha out has bee obs in the pas .
thu , sub - jec hav dir evi of the pro tha lev a or lev b sho be pul , but the do not see to max ins , the pro mat and cho lev wit a fre pro to the pro of rew .
on our acc , thi lit pro mat beh amo to mak dec bas on one sam , whi dec bas on mor sam wou cor to luc cho de - cis wit an exp gre tha 123 ( luc , 123 ) .
pro mat to pre obs fre is nat int as sam pri eve fro mem - ory .
thi int is con wit rec wor sug - ges tha peo mak dec bas on sam fro mem .
ste , cha , and bro ( 123 ) sug tha a pol of mak dec thr bin pre jud - men amo alt sam fro mem can ac - cou for an ass of hum jud and dec - mak err .
sim , sch , opp , and det ( 123 ) sug tha vot fro sam ori in mul - dim pre spa can acc for vio of coh nor uti jud .
a pro dir for fut res wou be to rel mod sug tha sam are dra fro cog pro suc as mem , to mod lik tho we hav des in our pap , in whi sam are dra fro pro dis ree
fig 123 : the opt num of sam as a fun of the ac - tio / sam tim - cos rat for eac of two uti fun ( sym - met cor : +12 , inc : - 123 and no pun for inc ans cor : +12 , inc : 123 ) .
we beg wit the obs tha , on ave , peo ten to act con wit ide bay inf , int inf to opt bui mod of the wor how , loc , the app to be sys sub , act bas on a ver lim num of sam .
thi has bee use to arg tha peo are not ful bay ( moz et ins , we hav arg tha sam - bas ap - pro are a pow met for imp ap - pro bay inf .
alt wit few sam , sam - bas inf wil dev fro exa bay inf , we sho tha for two - alt for - cho tas , a dec bas on a ver sma set of sam is nea as goo as an opt dec bas on a ful pro
ide inf abo the wor .
how muc mig a sam cos ? a rel mea of sam cos in mul - tri exp is the rat bet the tim it tak to mak an act and go on to the nex tri and the tim req to dra a sam to inf a dec abo tha act .
rat nea 123 see qui rea : mos exp tri las a few sec , and it can arg cos a few hun mil to con a hyp .
of cou , thi is spe .
how , in gen , it see to us tha in mos exp tas , the ben gai fro a bet dec are rel sma com to the cos of spe a ver lon tim thi .
so , if thi amo to sam pos alt bef mak a dec , it sho not be sur tha peo reg see to use so
we sho emp tha we are not arg tha all hu - man act and dec are bas on ver few sam .
the evi for sam - bas dec ari whe peo - ple mak a dec or a cho bas on wha the thi is lik to be tru ( whi exa is in the con ? how lon wil thi eve las ? how man air are the in the us ? ) .
in oth sit peo app to int ove the pos , or to tak man mor sam , suc as whe peo - ple mak gra ind jud ( how sim is a to b ? how lik is it tha x has pro p giv tha y doe ? how lik do you thi tha f cau g ? ) .
it is int to con why the may be a dif bet the sor
und rea two - alt cho sce , peo are bes adv to mak dec bas on few sam ( fu - tur wor wil ext thi to n - afc and con cho dec ) .
thi cap a ver sen int : whe we are dec whe to tur lef or rig at an int , we sho not enu eve pos map of the wor .
we do not nee mor cer abo the pro tha lef or rig wil lea to the fas rou to our des we jus nee to mak a dec .
we mus imp wei the ben - ts of imp our dec by thi for a lon per of tim aga the cos of spe mor tim and eff de - lib .
int sug tha we do thi in the rea wor : we thi har bef dec whe to go nor or sou on an int ( whe a wro dec can lea to a det of man mil ) , tha whe we are loo for a hou ( whe the wro dec wil hav min cos ) .
emp evi - den con thi : whe the sta are hig , peo sta max ins of pro mat ( sha , tun - ney , & mcc , 123 ) .
non , it see tha in sim - ple cir , del is rar the pru cou of act for the mos par , mak qui , loc sub , dec is the glo opt pol : one and don .
ack .
thi wor was sup by onr mur ( jbt , pi : bav ) ; rus sag , nds , nsf dis gra ( ev ) .
