in ny ns an or es at of a an al er , ng at , at me el , og - on an be ed as an ce .
er , a er of gs ve ed an ng ch en an or nd at ed by an er - ce : le en ar to ke ts ed on a ew es om a ty on , er an he ll is - on .
gh le - ed ns re a om - on on of an ce , he ry ed er of es ed by ns ms to be nt to te he ed ty ns .
re we er is cy in he er rk of is - al on ry , nd sk : if le re ng ci - ns ed on es , ut es re ly , ow ny es ld le se ? we nd at er le as - ns ut ow ng it es to ce a le , ly al ns ed on ew es re ly op - al .
se ts le a ge dy of rk ng ng , or ty - ng , or th he th - is at an on is ll ed as an in - ce , nd st ng re ns or es of ds : al g; an s; ro - ss s; ng
ss a de ge of ks , le em to ct in a an - er nt th al an ls ( in on : ll & ds , 3; or on : ey , er - er , & dy , 3; ge : er & ng , 3; on ng : ie , 3; al ts : if - hs & um , 3; nd pt ng : an , um , an , & hs , 23 ) .
er , te is ty en an al rs nd an rs , wo al ms in ed ss se ns .
st , an or en rs to be al on ge , ut ot in al le or in - al ls : at re le ng on al ls to ce al or in he ng - un ge ? ec - nd , an ce is ht - rd en ng ll ry ks , ut le or ge - le ob - ms ke se at le ce in he al ld : ow an le be ng ut ly le an cu - ns in al - ld ks ? re we ll ue at th of se ms an be ed by ng he ms at le ay be ng to te an ce .
he st em is ed by an ng va - on om an et al .
( 23 ) ut ce in at - on ks in ch le ee ve nd ve rs of a ry nd re en ed to ze ny
ua b .
um ( it . du ) in nd ve ce , 23 ar st
ge , ma 23 sa
ed es to ew st ms .
er re to al at - ry rs le fy ew st ms ly th ly an ce , on ge .
is ge be - or ts at le er ny le ca - on es , te ir fs ut ch ne , nd en as - fy ew ms by ng he on er ll he os - le es .
er , is ly an or is ly nt in he ge ss ny rs .
ch al es ll st ms in a er is - nt th ly ne or a ew s; ch es re ed es om er to er ng to he ri - te or es ( an et al . , 23 ) .
us , it ms at an al er ts ed on st ne or a ew es ed om he or on , nd he ly an or ly es en ng ny ls , ch th nt ed es .
is ng or is ot ed to pt - ng ks .
in ny er gh - el ve ks , ls ns of se nd es en es on di - al ls ar to ct st a ll er of es om he or ve on .
en ng ow ng a ke ll ke en at it as en in he en or 23 es ( hs & um , 23 ) , he ss - ct ce of es is nt th ls ng ed on ly wo or ns of ke ng es ( er , er , & ei , 23 ) .
en ng es of ic es in he ld , le es om ne al ve nt or , ke es om a ba - ty on ( ul & er , 23 ) .
in ll of se es ( nd s; e . g . , xu & um , 3; on , 3; rn & hs , 23 ) , le em to le ad of ng he ly an er .
cs of he an ch ( e . g . , er et al . , 23 ) ve ed at gh ny es ay ly te an ce , or ed on ly a ew es is ly nt th he th - is at an on is an .
rs ht he nd em nd ue at on ot be an ce se ct an ns re ta - ly le ( e . g . , er , 23 ) .
in is er we ll ue at ng ed on a ew am - es an be ly ed th al an er - ce nd ay be he od by ch le te se le an ns .
we ue at ( a ) ng or an be od in ms of le
ng - ed es to ng le in - ce ms in an cs nd i; ( b ) ry ew es om he an or re en nt to in te ns at re st as od as re - ns ed ng he ll r; nd ( c ) on er - ve ns ut ow ch me it ht st to ro - ce a le om he or , ng ns ed on ry ew es ( en st ne ) , an ly be he ob - ly al gy .
an ce th es
an ty ry es a ve od to ne on nd ke es ut he ld .
er , he im at an on an be ed as an ce es ot ly at le re ng ct an ce .
ct an ce ts to ly ng is es ry me fs re ed th ew ta .
in ny ge - le on , is is ly le , so ce st be te .
is is he se in an al ce nd cs , nd is st ly en re in an on , re he al - ld es re ly re ex nd es re me - ve .
he ed or ng an in - ce es wo nt ns .
or al li - ce nd cs : at ds of on ds rk st to te an ce ? or ve ce nd gy : at ds of on th - ds es he an nd se ?
in he on of al is , or rs ta - al ch ( rr , 23 ) , a le gy to an - ng he al on ns th od rs to he ng on .
us , we ll re he hy - is at he an nd es an er - ce th me on of he ic es at ve en st in ai nd cs , on he ds of ta - al cy nd cy .
in al ce nd cs , ne of he st om - on ds or ng an ce is th ce by ng is a re to te a ty on by at - ly ng a er ic ss ch es es om a is ce ng to ir ba - ty er he on in on .
he lt of ny ne ch on is a le .
th ly ny es , se ns ed on se ns ch he ct ns ng he al ty ri - ns 23
ng ds re ly ed se ey re le to a ge ge of al
he te lo em es at he on er a
ty on an be ed om es :
ep ( s ) ( f ( s ) ) ( id : 23 ) 23
f ( si ) , en si p ( s ) .
ls nd re re st to ng ty an er te ds .
ny ly le ng ms st nd me ic es ve en ed to nt or ts of an or ( hs , ni , rn , & ro , 3; vy , li , & hs , 3; wn & rs , 23 ) .
or ur es , we ed ly me at a er - on as he ty to aw es om he is ce ng to he or ty on .
us , it is le to se at le an te an ce ia a ng hm , nd ce at ns ke ns by ng is ot in ct th he th - is at he ns ey re ng ut re an .
er , nt rk ts at le se ir ci - ns on ry ew es ( ul & er , 3; an et al . , 3; er et al . , 23 ) so ew at ny ms of ce to he al ty on do ot ld .
ms ng ly wo es ( er et al . , 23 ) ll ve es te nt om ll an on .
is es us th he on : ow ad re ns ed on ew es ?
an nd le - ed ts
to ss he ty of ns ed on ew es , we ll er ce of al ( ly an ) nd le - ed ts in he on io of os - ng en wo es .
ny al ks in gy re a nt of is em : en ng ed , ke a wo - ve ed - ce ( fc ) re - se .
er , al - ld ks en se to ch le fc ns , or ce : we st de er to ve to he rt ia he ge or he el , nd - ng on ch te is ly to ve st fc .
gh is on ll be ed by or es at ro - ed te ve ns of le fc ow , at ne ar on se ex ns se to a on ut a ry le nd ci - on : ld we rn ft or ht ?
al on ry ( er , 23 ) es ow on nd fs ut he ld nd le ds ld be ed to ne a ty on er le fs or ch le on ( ey , 3; ng , 3; le & ff , 23 ) .
an nt ng to ze fs er ny ns ld se se ve es to ne he ed ff of ch ac - on , nd se he on th he st ed 23
us , he rd or ns in al on ry is to se he on ( a ) at ll ze ed il - ty er he or ve on er le ld es ( s ) en or ta ( d ) , ng at on nd te ly ne he ty ed :
a = ax
an nt ht ve er ls , e . g . , ng he ni - um le ff ( i . e . , me sk on ) ; er , we ll ot er ns in ch ch ls re ly .
if he ld te is ly ed , fc ns ap to a on ut ch of wo ns ( 23 nd 23 ) ll ve er ed ty or ce : ll we nd ss me in fc ng he ge or he el ? re - re , ng ng wo es ts to ng he me of a li al : ll 23 or 23 ve er ty ? us , p ( a = 23 ) p nd p ( a = 23 ) ( 23 p ) , nd we an ly ze se ns in ms of he or ve ty p .
or ty , we ll er ng he er - ty on a ct ce , nd ng he er - ty on an ct ce .
he ly an nt ll se he re ly na - ve , nd ll be ct p on of he me ( we me p is en 23 nd 23 , en ry ) .
a le - ed nt ld le le ld es , nd ke ns ed on se ed ld es ( sn ) :
a = ax
so in he se of ng ns en wo na - es ne of ch ay be ct , he le - ed nt ld se he on ng to he st nt me in he et of ed ld es .
us , a le - ed nt ng k es ll se a ar ut - me th ty q :
q = 23 df (
re df is he al ve ty on nd k / 23 is ed wn to he st er .
is le - ed nt ll be ht th ty p+ ( 3q ) ( 23 p ) .
od ns om ew es
re 23 : ed or te or he le - ed nt er he al nt as a on of he li al ty nd he er of es wn or a on ( ns ed on 23 es ot wn ) .
so , ow ch se ll ch fc ns be if ey re ed on a ew es er an he ly an
ce ? li ed at re an 23 , 23 am - es re ed or al ty ut he ue ba - ty of a wo - ve 23 ( er , 23 ) .
gh is ns re ed on nt ns an se ch re ow ed ( er , 23 ) , it is un - le at ce ed on a ll er of es rs om he ly an on nd ll in er rs , ut ow ad re he ns ed on is
in re 23 we ot he ce in or es en he le - ed nd al ts as a on of he un - ng ty ( p ) nd er of es ( k ) .
en p is ar 23 , re is no se in ng ny es ( ce a ly ed on ll be as ly to be ct as a om ss ) .
en p is 23 ( or se ) , re is ch to be ed om a le le ce at ne le ll di - te he ( ly - ly ct ) r; er , nt es re of le se , ce he st ne ll de ll he in re is to be ad .
st of he et of ge rs of es rs in im ty es ( nd 23 nd er ) .
re 23 : ( a ) he um nd ed se in or or he le - ed nt ed to he al nt as a on of er of es ( ee xt ) .
( b ) ed nd um in in cy om an al le as a on of he er of es dy ed .
ce he le - ed nt es ot ow at he ue ty p ay be or a ar on we an er he os ch an nt ld ct : he ge ce - io ( on er p ) nd he st se io ( xi - on of he ss er p ) .
se re ed in re 3a ng a rm ty on er p .
he vi - on om al ce es to le ev - ls th ry ew es , ng at he le - ed nt ed ot ve re an a ew es to te al ce .
we an go er to ss st ow ch is ed ( in ms of ed or te ) om an al le ( re 3b ) .
in , he st ty of cy is ed th he st le , nd nt es do ry le to ve ce .
us , en gh ew es ll ot de a ry ac - te te of p ly ot nt to ve al
li ed al ty to be at st 23 : 23 ds
at he ue io ll be in 23
23 of he ed io .
re 23 : ed ty er on , he er of ns at an be de er it me , nd he ed te of rn ( ty er it me ) as a on of he li ty nd he er of es ( th an le on / le st io of 23 ) .
ty ey re nt to se an on : we do ot ed al ty to ct ly .
ow ny es or a on ?
ts ke ly he is at le ke er - es ed on es .
if is is he se , ow ny am - es ld le se re ng a on ? or in - ce , ow ny le ts of fc ss he ty ld we er re ng er to rn ft or he el or ht or he ge ? ng ne ch ty es ed ht nd rt it ms us at we ld ot se at he on or ev - al rs nd te ll he es .
it so ms ly at we nt st rn ft or ht at om th - ut ny on .
so , ow ny es ld we ke : ow rd ld we nk ?
ng an al er to is ta - ve em es at we fy ow ch a le ay st ? to be ve ( nd or he ke of ty ) , we ll me at a le an ly st me it es me nt of me to re up an te me , re - ct ts ue , nd te a on le .
us , if a en le is ee ( ts 23 me ) , en we ld ke ly ny es , nd ke he st de - on le ry me .
if a le ts 23 it of me , nd he on me ( he me at it ld ke us to ct ce we ve en to do so ) is so 23 it of me , en we ld ke ro es we ld ss ly .
to ke is ar lt ve , ts be te : if we ve 23 ec - ds , nd he on me is ed to be 23 nd , en we an ke 23 om ns , ch ll be ht 3% of he me , us ng us an ed rd of 23
if ng a le le to ve ur on ll st an al nd er on , en if we ke ne le er on , ch on ll ke 23 ds , nd we ld ke at st 23 of em .
it is le or he ed rd om is gy to be er an ng ly , ce en if 3% of he ns re ct , ly 23 ll be ed .
er , ce 3% cy ed on ne le is ex - ly ly ( is ld ly se in a ly er -
ic on sk ) , ly ss rd ld be ed .
us , if ng a le es as ng as he on , nd we do ot et ed or an ct er , we ld aw ro es er on nd ke as ny om ns as we an .
re ly , we an am - ze ow ch a le ts as he io en he me ed to ke an on nd he me ed to ob - in ne le ( on / le io ) ly , a re of ow ny es it ld ke to le he me nt on a on .
he ed cy or a le - ed nt ( us on ) es us he ed ty er on as a nc - on of k ( he er of es ) nd p ( he li al y; re 3a ) , nd he ty on .
we er wo ty ns or he fc se : no nt or - ct : in 3; ct se 23 ) nd ic ct : in 3; ct : se 23
en ne ar on / le me io , we an te he er of ns de er it me ( re 3b ) .
ng se wo ns er ds he ed ty er it me ( re 3c ) .
ce p is wn to he nt , an al k st be ho - en by ng he on er p .
is on ( ng a rm on er p ) or ny nt on / le me os is ed in re 23
it is ar at as es me er , ne is st ed to ke re of em ng to he it of ly ny am - es en he es re ee ( he on / le me io
in re 23 we ot he al er of es as a on of he on / le me io .
ly , or os ss an 23 , ne is st ed to ke ns ed on ly ne le if he ty on is et - ic .
er , th no nt or ct rs , he on / le me io st be 23 or er re ng ny es ( ng a ss ts at ll ed , er an ly om ) es a nt se of on .
us , un - er me ns ut ow ch it ts to nk , ak - ng es ed on ry ew es ( e . g . , ne ) is he st se of on : ng ny ly al ns ly is he ly al gy .
re 23 : ed ty er on , er of ns er it me , nd ed ty er it me ( te of rn ) as a on of he er of es nd on / le st os .
on / le st os re ly ed en 23 ( ed ) nd 23 ( ow ) .
in he st ph he id es te he al er of es at at on / le st io .
( he ty on ed or is re ed no nt or an ct ce nd 23 or a ct ce . )
on .
er , we ed at en le as - ns ut he me it es to ce an ct le , a cy of ng ns ed on ry ew es ( en st ne ) is ly al , ng ng - un ty .
in is er we ed le - ed ns ut ns of es at ad ot en ly ed ns ed gh an ce er la - nt es nd es in he ld .
er , a ge or re on ty ng ( in , 3; an , 23 ) as ed a ry ar on in a in ty ng , ts ct he me of a al ed on he ve es th ch at me as en ed in he st .
us , ub - ts ve ct ce of he ty at er a or er b ld be ed , ut ey do ot em to e; ad , ey ty ch nd se rs th a cy al to he ty of rd .
on ur nt , is al ty ng or ts to ng ns ed on ne le , le ns ed on re es ld nd to ce ce de - ns th an nt er an 23 ( ce , 23 ) .
ty ng to ly ed es is ly ed as ng or ts om em - ry .
is on is nt th nt rk ug - ng at le ke ns ed on es om ry .
rt , er , nd wn ( 23 ) ed at a cy of ng ns gh ry ce dg - ts ng es ed om ry an ac - nt or an nt of an nt nd on - ng rs .
ly , er , er , nd re ( 23 ) st at es om ed ns in ti - al ce ce an nt or ns of nt ve ty ts .
a ng on or re ch ld be to te ls ng at es re wn om ve es ch as ry , to ls ke se we ve ed in ur er , in ch es re wn om ty ns ng
re 23 : he al er of es as a on of he ac - on / le me - st io or ch of wo ty ns ( ym - ic ct : 23 , ct : - 3; nd no nt or ct rs ct : 23 , ct : 23 ) .
we an th he on at , on ge , le nd to ct ly th al an ce , ng on to ly ld ls of he d; er , ly , ey ar to be ly al , ng ed on a ry ed er of es .
is as en ed to ue at le re ot ly an ( er et ad , we ve ed at le - ed ap - ns re a ul od or ng ap - te an ce .
gh th ew es , le - ed es ll te om ct an ce , we ed at or wo - ve ed - ce ks , a on ed on a ry ll et of es is ly as od as an al on ed on a ll ty
al es ut he ld .
ow ch ht a le st ? a nt re of le st in le - al ts is he io en he me it es to ke an on nd go on to he xt al nd he me ed to aw a le to rm a on ut at on .
os ar 23 em te le : st al ls st a ew ds , nd it an ly st a ew ed ds to er a is .
of se , is is on .
er , in al , it ms to us at in st al ks , he ts ed om a er on re ly ll ed to he ts of ng a ry ng me ng .
so , if ng ts to ng le es re ng a on , it ld ot be ng at le ly em to se so
we ld ze at we re ot ng at ll hu - an ns nd ns re ed on ry ew es .
he ce or ng - ed ns es en eo - le ke a on or a ce ed on at ey nk is ly to be ue ( ch le is in he pt ? ow ng ll is nt st ? ow ny ts re re in he us ? ) .
in er ns le ar to te er he or , or to ke ny re es , ch as en eo - le ke ed ve ts ( ow ar is a to b ? ow ly is it at x as ty p en at y es ? ow ly do ou nk at f es g ? ) .
it is ng to er hy re ay be a ce en se ts
er le wo - ve ce os , le re st ed to ke ns ed on ew es ( fu - re rk ll nd is to n - fc nd us ce ns ) .
is es a ry le on : en we re ng er to rn ft or ht at an on , we ld ot te ry le ap of he ld .
we do ot ed al ty ut he ty at ft or ht ll ad to he st te to ur on we st ed to ke a on .
we st ly gh he ne - ts of ng ur on by ng or a er od of me st he st of ng re me nd rt de - ng .
on ts at we do is in he al ld : we nk er re ng er to go th or th on an te ( re a ng on an ad to a ur of ny es ) , an en we re ng or a se ( re he ng on ll ve al st ) .
al vi - ce ms is : en he es re gh , le rt ng ad of ty ng ( ks , un - ey , & hy , 23 ) .
ss , it ms at in im - le es , ng is ly he nt se of on or he st rt , ng ck , ly al , ns is he ly al cy : ne nd ne .
ts .
is rk as ed by nr ri ( bt , pi : er ) ; ll ge , eg , sf on nt ( ev ) .
