ne of he st ms ts st ve as ey re ng ge is rd on : rd es in us ch .
ut 3% of er - es ed at sh - ng ts st of so - ed ds ( nt & nd , 23 ) , ut re is no us ay or en to ow om he et ch es se re .
ce ti - rd es er - ly ve no nt es en ds , en st be ng er es to fy rd es .
in ct , re is ce at ts se a de ge of ak es or rd on .
se es de ac -
* ng or .
el . : 23 23 23 23
e - il es : nf . ed . ac . uk , il . om ( s
23 - 23 / $ - ee nt er 23 er b . v .
ll ts ed .
cs ( ys , yk , ce , & an , 23 ) , ic on ( yk , ne , & an , 23 ) , al ( ss ) ns ( yk , on , & me , 3; an , mo , & is , 23 ) , ts of on ( on & yk , 23 ) , nd al es in he es of es nd in ch ( an , in , & rt , 23 ) .
is st ce of on an be ed in a ge - nt ay , nd ms to be ed by ts er an st er es , by he ge of 23 hs ( en & an , 23 ) .
se ts ve ed me rs to se at es ed on al ng on re a al st ep in ng rd on ( en & an , 23 ) , nd ve ed a at al of st in se es ( in , an , & rt , 3; an , ew - rt , & in , 3; an et al . , 3; ro , tt , & to - co , 23 ) .
in is er , we se al
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
ng es to ne me of he ns ng ch of he ch on al rd
st us rk on al rd on is ed on he on at ns om ne yl - le or me to he xt nd to be ss le at rd es an in ds ( is , 3; af - an et al . , 23 ) .
al ch as wn at in - ts re ed ve to is nd of ty , as ed by cs ch as al es ( in et al . , 3; an et al . , 23 ) .
is ch , er , is ic as to he ms by ch in - ts se al ns to rm rd ta - on .
a er of rs in th ve ce nd er ce ve ed ms ed on al es , al ar cs of ty in er to fy ow se cs an be ed ly to fy ds or rd es ( do & ee , 3; en & ms , 3; ng , en , ng , & ng , 3; ey , 23 ) .
re , we ke a nt ch : we ek to fy he ns he er st ke ut he re of ge in er to ly nt at - al ge ut .
ns ut ty at rd es re nt th wo nt ds of ns ut at es a rd : er a rd is a it at is ly nt of er ts , or it is a it at ps to ct er ts ( ut to a er ee an he ng of a rd ts ts nd ) .
in st al an - ge ts on rd on , on is ed ly by ng li gh om ( or ar - om ) on of ce ds .
is nd of om on is en es - ry or ed ts th an ts , nd as en ul in ng at ns re ve to he al es in ch ly ed es .
er , it ly ts ay om ny of he es of al ge , re es st ot ly in he ps en ub - rd ts , ut so in he ps en ds es .
we ow at ns re le to se ub - rd es to in to ct s; it is tu - al to sk er ng to se ds of es is nt or a al er to ed th rd on in a re ic ng .
in is er , we se er ns to ne ng om al , er an al , ge ut .
we sk at ds of ds re ed by a er ho es at ds re ly nt , or ( ly ) by a er ho es as ll at ds re ve of er ds .
we te is on by ng wo nt an ls of rd on ng ch of se wo nt ns .
se ls an be en as al rs : ey re de - ed to ve ly en he le ut ta , in is se a us of ly ed ld - di -
ng ur al ng ch , we nd in ur st et of ns at he er ho es at ds re ly nt ts ds to nt
he us , ng ly co - ng es of ds as le ds .
se ts em to ct th se of al er ls ( er , 3; nt , 3; an , 23 ) , re ic on as ot nd en en ds re ed to be nt .
er , we ue re at se us ts re ng .
gh ch of se rs is ed on a ic el at de - es an al on to he on em , we de th al nd al ce at he ns nd by se rs re ot he ti - al es .
er , ey re he lt of ns ed by he ar ng ms ed .
er al is ws at on is he al on to he ng em or ny ea - ly ed el at es al en - ce en ds .
ng on to ur nd et of ns , we nd at ng he er to er on ut rd - to - rd es ly es he em of on .
he us is ed in a ch re te , lt - ke ay .
se ts di - te at , or an al er to fy ds ed on al ns of es or es , it is or - nt to ke to nt at nt le at - ns ay ur er in ds or ss ds .
is nd of al ng is a lt of he al re of ge , re le ns ur at ny nt ls .
a er ho rs ct - ty at ly ne el ( ub - rd ts in ds ) ll be ss ul an a er ho rs so he ty of er ts ( ds ) in ir en - al xt .
he nd , re ed on of he al ns in he ut ds to er
ur rk as nt ns or he er - ng of an rd on .
we ow at uc - ns at he er es ut he re of ds .
se ns in he ds of er - es at re de en he er is ed th ic ut .
ur al ng is ws us to ne he ds of ts at re ed to uc - ly fy ds , nd ts at ts or ng en ay ed to nt or re le al ef - ts an ve ly en ed in he re .
to te , re is le ct ce at ry ng an - ge rs te al rs .
ss , is on is ot ly ed , en he ng ce in or of ns as al rs in er ns or at er es ( nk , er , ns - ka , hs , & um , 3; lz , tz , & hs , 3; xu & um , 23 ) .
in er to er ne er ts ve as al rs , or he ys in ch ey rt om he al , it is nt to st nd at or to ct om an al er .
he al ts ed re de a on of is or , nd we pe at ey ll de on or re al rk ng he ip en an rs nd al rs .
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
he er of is er is ed as ws .
st , we ey ew he ea of al es nd ow ey te to he on of ds , nd de me nd on he ic ng ch en re .
we aw a on en wo ds of ic el - ed ms se ed on xi - um - od nd an on nd ue in fa - or of he an ch .
we ss in me il he hs nd es of he el - ed dy - ic ng ( dp - 23 ) em , a an er ed by nt ( 23 ) .
xt , we ce ur wn an am el nd ng hm , ch ss me of he es of dp - 23
we de he ts of ns ng is el nd re em to he ts of ly ed ls .
we en ze ur am ng ts ng di - al al nd al ts , ng me ep al es en ur am od - el nd dp - 23
ly , we nd ur el to po - te am es , nt he ts of is am el , nd de by ng he ns of ur rk .
ds nd al es
he on of ow ts in to nt ds om us ch as ed a at al of re - ch er he rs ( yk , 23 ) .
le ny er - nt es ve en wn to be nt , re we us on ne ar ue : al es in he se - es of ds at ur in al ge .
he ea at rd nd me es ay be ov - ed gh he se of al on is ot ew , ut ly se ds re en ly as na - ic ls or ts ( is , 23 , 23 ) .
re re - ly , ce at ts re ve to al es en es as nt ht to he ea at is nd of on ay ly be ed by an rs or ly rd on ( an et al . , 3; en & an , 23 ) .
in ar , re - ch on al rd on as ed on he on of al es en ub - rd ts ( e . g . , ts or es ) .
he al ba - ty om ( ay ) le x to le y is ly he on - al ty of y en x .
in al ge , re is a al cy ds er al il - es at rd es an in ds ( is , 3; an et al . , 23 ) , a cy ch ts em le to it in er to nt rd - ke ts om on - us ch ( in et al . , 3; an et al . , 23 ) .
le er es re so nt or rd ta - on , nd ay in ct ke ce er al es in er ts , al es em to be ne of he st es at ts re le to se or is sk ( on & yk , 3; en & an , 23 ) .
ch of he al rk ed to ng rd on nd ed ic ks as fo - ed on ng he ds of al on at an rs re or re ot ve to , e . g . , an - al es vs .
es ( in et al . , 23 ) ,
es vs .
es ( rt , ss , in , & na - in on ) , nt vs .
on - nt en - es ( rt & in , 23 ) , nd he ys in ch al es ct th er ds of es ( on & yk , 3; en & an , 23 , 23 ) .
in on , ny rs ve ed he nt to ch rd on ed on si - al es an be ed as a al se of re al rn - or ce - ng ms at te er a ge of ve ns ( el , rt , & in , 3; er & in , 23 ) .
a on at as ed ss it on is ow he on al es es to he on of ds .
al es re a ty of he es en ds ( or ts in ds ) , ut ly it is he ds es , er an he es , at re of st to he ge er / it es us , en , to er at le es of ds ( or , re ly , rd se - es ) ld ve se to he ns of al es at re ly ed in he re , i . e .
er es at rd es nd er es in ds .
en a on of ds , ne ay at he rd ns of al es an se is by os - ng ds ly at om om he on nd ng em er to rm a ce .
to a st on , is is he re at is ly ed to te li or st of he ts ed ve . 23 re re ny od ns to te ri - al li in is ay , ly en he us of re - ch is on al es : ng ds at om ls or le ng ts nd er on - ds , nd ds to le nd ic ns of an - al es .
er , re is ly er ay we ld te a ce of ds , by ng ch rd ed on he us rd or ds .
nd - ng on he th of he rd - to - rd es , an - al es en ds ay be ow or gh .
in al , if he th of he es en ds is le , en in a on - nt ce of ds , rd es ll ll nd to be ed th er al es ( ce ny rs of ds ll ot be ly nt ) .
er , re ll so be rd es th ly gh al es ( re wo ds re ly ed , as in er ky or ts a ) .
he ls at we op in is er re ed to ne he ts of ng se wo nt ns ut he re of ge : at ds re ly nt ts , or at ey re ic - ve ts .
in ng ut he es en rn - rs ng ch of se wo ds of ns , we me he ue in ms of he ce of ic th -
23 he ds in al li re er en ly ly , ue to ns st te on of ds .
en he on is ll , is ds to nt ns om ce .
er , as he on ze ws , es ut on ll me re nd re ar to ly nt
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
es ( ly , rs ) at ch er rs .
no - ce at a er ho es at es re ed om es of ly en ds is re re - ed an a er ho es at ds ay re - ct er ds .
he nd er is le to rn rs at be er ve or on - ve es of ds , le he st er an ly rn rs or on - ve es of ds .
if ds re ly nt , en he st er ay ve an ge ue to he ce of he er nt , se is er as a ch er ce of he - es to er .
on he er nd , he nd er ll ve an ge in he se re ds re ot de - nt , se he er ho es ce ll er be le to ge on he ct is .
re ng ur on of se wo ds of rs , we st ne ur al ch nd ro - de a ry of ed rk .
ic ls or rd on
al rk in he in of an et al .
( 23 ) as ed a th of on ng he ds of cs an rs re ve to , at at es , nd to at ee ve to er ds of on es .
al ng es a ry od of on at an be ed to st ic es ut ow al on ht be ed ly to fy rd es or at ng al em is ng ed .
ng he gy of rr ( 23 ) , se wo ds of es - ns an be ed by ng ls at ( ec - ly ) he ic el or al el of he on em .
ly , rs te go - ic - el ns by ng ms at re ed to te ly le ha - ms of on ng .
ic - el ap - es to rd on de a ty of al rk ls ( en et al . , 3; ns & ll - ck , 3; en , en , & rg , 3; an , 23 ) as ll as al ng ms ed on an - al es , al on , nd ar ta - cs ( do & ee , 3; en & ms , 3; ng et al . , 3; ey , 23 ) ( th st of he er up ng om he er ce re ) .
in st to se ls , ur rk es a al - el is of he rd on em .
a al - el ch es on ng he em ng he er nd in - ng he ic gh ch it an be ed .
or ms of on ch as se ng he ge er , ty ry es a al ng al - el ls .
a ic is a et of ve al ts ng he ls of he ng ss nd he ds of on at ll be ed to ve em .
of se , se ve ts st be ed th me hm at an be ed to ve he ic al , ut ly he hm is ot en as he us of ch .
er , al - el ns of - en ke he rm of al er es , ng he
or of a er ho es ly en he ns of he el . 23
ry ly , we an ew he al of a ge ar - er as ng me ct on of he ob - ed ta ( e . g . , a ar ) at ll ow el ic ut to be ly ed , nd el ut - ut to be ly ed .
ny nt ta - ns re ly le , so he er st ve me ay to ne ch on is st ly to be ct .
ic ls de a al ay to ke is on , by ng a ty on er nt ed ns en he ed ta .
a er ho is le to ly fy is or on er es an se is on to ss re ut nd ut in an al ay ( i . e . , in a ay at is as ar as le to he ct ng ss he lt ar ) .
er is ew , en , he or on er rs is he me of he ng ss .
ow es he er go ut ng he or on ? es le ls us at he ty of a ed ar h en he ed ta d an be ed as
re he um in he or es er ll th - es 23 in he is ce .
re , jh ( wn as he od ) is he ty of he ed ta en a ar is , nd ls us ow ll at th - is ns he ta .
ph ( he or ty of h ) ls us ow od a ic is h is , ss of ny ta .
he or an be ed as a ng as or re of ic ss : es th gh or ob - ty ay be ed ed on ss ce an es th ow or ty .
es le es at he or ty jd is al to he ct of he od nd he or , th he na - or ng as a ng nt to re at jd ms to ne er ll es .
he er an te he or es of nt es by al - ng ch ne ng to ts ry er ( li - od ) nd he rs or ns .
es le rs he on of ow to ne he or ty of a is if he or ob - ty nd od re wn , ut it es ot ll us ow to te se ms in he st ce .
we rn st to he on of he od .
ly , he od is ed by ng a ve el : a ic
23 a te on gy : he rd el ly es wo ed ut ( ly ) ct es .
it an be ed to be er ( 23 ) a al ut he re of ng or ts on ( as in st el , ar el ) ; or ( 23 ) a ic at - al nt ng he ss ng a et of ta ( as in ic el , ve el ) .
a ic el ( nd se ) er th ts ng hm an be ed as an ce of a ng el ( st se ) .
to id on , we ll ly se he rm el ly or he nd se , nd he ms em or er to be he ly ed on of a ic el nd ng hm .
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
ss or ng he ed ta en he th - is er on .
as a le on - ic am - le , ne he ta d ts of he ts of 23 in ps nd we sh to ne he ty of d en es h at er in he ty of ng ds .
we me a ve el in ch ch on is he lt of ng he me in , nd at in ys as ty p of ng on ds ly of ny us es .
he et of es er er - on ts of ll le es or p .
we re ve jh p 23 nt , re nh nd nt re he er of ds nd ls ed in a ar se - ce of ps .
um - od on
a rd od of ng a ic ve el or ng is to rm um - od ti - on , i . e . , to se he is ^h at es he ue of he od on .
is is nt to ng he is th um or ba - ty , ng a rm or on er th - es th ct to he en on .
in he in ip le , it is sy to ow ng ry al - us at he od is ed en h nh us , if we ve a ce ng of ur ls nd ix ds , he um - od te or h is
or re ex ve ls ch as se yp - ly ed in ge ng , it is ly le to fy he um - od is ly .
if he er of le es is ll , it ay be le to ly te he od or ch si - le is nd se he st ne .
er , in en - al , it ll be ry to gn me rt of hm or ng gh he ce of es ut ng ll of em .
he al hm ld be ne
at is ed to nd he ly al is .
in ny es , er , te ch ms re ed .
se ms ly rk by ng he ti - al is in me al on of he ch ce .
te ch ms ay be ed or al ns ( en an ct re is ot wn , as in on ( 23 ) ) or or al ns ( if he re - er es to te ar ns ut an ng , as in rn , hs , & ro ( 23 ) ) .
in er se , in es re ed om on by he hm lf .
ly , he se of an te ch re an ke a ly al - el is lt .
he ds of ns de by he er re ed th by he it ts ed by he ic el , nd he it ts ed by he ch re .
es of is pe of ng em re de - ed by an ( 23 ) nd er ( 23 ) .
he ls ng se ms re ry r; we be ly ns rk in il .
an es a od of rd ta - on ed on um - od on .
he is - es ee nt ve ls of ng y; we us ur is on he st of se , gh ur nt an be ed to ll ee .
is el is a rd am el , i . e . , it es at ds re ed ly at ed ta ts of a us of ly an - ed ld - ed ch , re ce es ( ng to es in he ut ) re wn , ut rd es re wn ( ee ig .
he is - ic el ng is em es ow to er - te a us en u , he er of es in he s; he ed ol $ , ch is ed to rk ce s; nd r , he ic ol ha - et ( ch es ot de $ ) :
an pt om he ng of he us ed as ut to ns ( 23 ) rd on em , ng ( a ) he al ut us nd ( b ) he ng rd ic on .
he us as ly ed by nt nd ht ( 23 ) ng ta om in - er ( 23 ) , nd as so ed as ut to ts ( 23 ) dp - 23 em .
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
at u es :
at il $ is ed : 23
te he xt rd , w , th ty ww .
te $ th ty p$ .
re pw is me ty on er r , he et of ll le ds .
as ch rd is ed , it is on - ed to he ly ed ce of ds .
no ry er is ed ss he nd - of - ce er , $ , is ed .
er is el , he ty of ng ds 23 .
wn as a le er -
nd he ty of ng he ed er - ce u is nd by ng er ll le es of ds at ld be ed to rm u :
he ty of he re us is he ct of he es of he al es .
he is ce or is el ts of ll he le gn - ts of ty es to ds nd he ce i . e . , le es or p$ nd he rs of pw .
ce at in he is ce st ed , me es of pw ay gn on - ro ty to ly a - te et of al ds .
nt es ll ve nt es , i . e . , nt rs of ds ll ve on - ro ty .
ly , er , no er - ce is en to es of ny ar ze he um - od on es at we ld se er is ns he st il - ty to he ed ta .
at is he um - od is er is el ? it is rd to ow at , in al , he um - od on or a el is he il - ty on at is st to he al on ( ve es ) of ns in he us , re he ce is ed by an on ic re ed he er ce ( op , 23 , p .
23 , er al . ) .
in he ve el , re is ne is at is le to ch he al on of he us ly .
is is ts ch ce as a le rd , th ty al to he al ty of at ce in he us , nd es p$ 23
in er ds , is on es he re ta et ut ng es at ll , nd ns ro ty to ny ed ce .
ly , ny on at es ze rd es ll re p$ < 23 , ch ns at me ed er - es ll ve on - ro ty se at an be ed by , or le , ng wo ed er - es , or ng he ed ds to el
gs .
ce me ty ss is ed to se ed es , he ty of he ob - ed ta st be er an in he se re p$ 23 nd no on is le .
or a um - od er ng he el in eq .
( 23 ) , en , ly a al on ll be nd un - ss me nt is ed on he ds of es at re ed .
ly , er , is nt es ot nd on he ar rm of pw ed in eq .
( 23 ) , re ds re ed to be ed en - nt of xt .
ny er le ns er ds ld ld he me lt .
an , or le , ts wo er ls in ch he am on pw is ed th a am or am ri - on : er an ng ds nt of on - xt , ch rd is ed ed on er ne or wo us ds .
at is , he am el es
n$ j$
ly , he on at ll of se ls ld he me um - od on ( an ed or - us ) is at ey re ed to er es th ry rs of ms .
en ng es th nt ls of ty ( re - ng re to he er of rd es in he th - is ) , a um - od er ll ly er a re ex is er a le ne .
is ds to he em of ng , re he er es a is at ts he ed ta ry ll , ut er - es ry ly to ew ta .
in he se of rd en - on , he on of te on ws he er to t he ed ta ly .
ce we ow at is is ot he on nd by ns rs , we st de at he hm he es to ch he ce of le es st be os - ng al ts nd se of he ls es .
it ld be ar om he us on at is is ot he ch ed re , ce it en - rs ts it nd lt to ne .
el - rs ( 23 ) um - od ng em es an it al nt to ze al ms at re oo ng .
is ch is a ep in he ht on , ut is ss ly ed an an el - in ch a ( on - rm ) or on er es is ed in he el lf to in ng .
we ow ew al of he an ls at ed as on or ur wn rk .
an ls
in he us on , we ed at ed um - od on is a or ay to se en es th nt es .
in es - an ng , he ct of he od an be er - ed by ng a or on at rs er es .
er es ll nd ot to t he ed ta as ll , ut ll nd to ze re ly to el ta .
by ng th he od nd or in ng he or il - ty of ch is , an rs ly id
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
he nd of ng at um - od rs er .
he de - ff en t nd on ll nd on ly ow he or is d; we ow be al ds at ve en ed to ne rs in us an ls .
ps he st ll - wn rk or ng an ls is wn as um on th ( dl ) ( en , 23 ) , nd is ed by he rk of de en ( 23 ) nd nt nd ht ( 23 ) .
dl is a ar on of an ng at as en ed ly in a er of er as of ge on as ll ( tz & us , 3; ow - an , 3; on , 3; th , 3; er & on , 23 ) .
he ic ea nd dl is to ne me ng me at an be ed to de he or - us to a re ct on .
in rd en - on , or le , a de ht st of a st of al ms ng th a ry on or ch ne .
th te es or he al ms nd ry ns ( th er ns ed to re on ds ) , he th of he us ld be ed by ng ch rd th ts ry de .
in is rk , he rs es re nt os - le ng es .
he um on th le es at he al is is he ne at es he ed th , in ts , of he is it - lf ( he ok ) nd he ed us .
ng ts om on ry , it an be wn at ng a is ng he dl le is nt to os - ng he um a ri ( ap ) is he is th he st or ty er a an el re he or ty of a th - is es ly th ts th .
ds , dl ds to a ar ce of or is - on er es , re es re ed if ey an be ed re ly .
gh dl ls an in le ce od rd on ts , re re no rd ch ms or se ds of ls , nd it is en if - lt to gn nt el - ic ms .
or le , nt nd ht ( 23 ) re ed to it ir is to a ry rt us ( ut 23 es ) ue to cy ns .
in er ch , nt el - ed er an el or rd on th a re nt ch hm ( nt , 23 ) .
he ed is em el - ed ic ng ( dp - 23 ) . 23 ce we ll be ng to is el at us ts ut is er , we ow be dp - 23 in
ke ls ed in he dl rk , re es nd to le ng th - ds , dp - 23 es at he es er er - on re al es of ds , re ch rd is a ce of ic ls .
he ut us ts of ly ed es of ld - ed ch , as in ig .
me rd es , en te - ed er to ve rd es , ll rm ex -
23 he 23 in dp - 23 as ed as a on er , gh nt
er ed ny er ns of he em .
ly he ng of ls nd in he us , le rs ll ot .
he ty of he ed ta en a ar ed ce of ds ll re er be al to 23 ( if he ed ds rm he us ) or 23 ( if ot ) .
ly , ly es at re nt th he us st be ed .
or ch le on of he us , he or ty of at on ll be ly or - al to ts or ty .
he or ty , in rn , is ed ng a ve el .
is el es at he ce of ds in he us as ed in a ce of ur ps : 23
ep 23 : te he er of es at ll be in he
ep 23 : te a en cy or ch al pe .
ep 23 : te he ic on of ch pe ( pt or he le ed er - ce ry pe , $ ) .
ep 23 : te an ng or he et of ns .
ch ep in is ss is ed th a ty on er he le es of at ep , so er se ur ps ne he or ty ri - on er ll le ed ra .
we ss he ic ns ed in ch ep in ix b; re it is nt to te at se ns nd to gn er ty to ns ng er nd er al ms , so at he er ll er to it es to ds .
to ch he ce of le ns of he us , nt ps an nt ne hm .
he hm es a le ss gh he us , eg - ng ne ce at a me ed on he ta - ns nd or ll us es .
he ne re of is hm is ed to de a re ic on of an rd on an er ch ng ms ( nt & ht , 3; de rc - en , 23 ) , ch me at he re us of ta is le to he er at ce ( i . e . , he er ay er - te er he ta ny es ) .
in he er of is er , we ll be wo ew an ls of rd on ed , in rt , by ts rk .
ke nt , we se a ve od - el - ed an rk to op ur rs .
er , as we ve in ix b , ur st ( am ) el is ly ry ar to he dp - 23 od - el .
er , ur rk rs om ts in wo ts .
st , ur ls re re le , ch ws us to re ly te he ts of nt ng ns .
in ry , ch ep of ts el an be ly ed , ut in ce he al nt of he el nd he ns ry or he ch re ke it lt to fy he el in ny ng ay .
in ar , he th ep es a rm on er gs , ch
23 ur on es a ll ge om nt ( 23 ) , ng he er of ps 23 nd 23
is ge es no ce to he el , ut es a re al ng of ps or es of ur is in ix b .
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
es a am nt at ot ly be ed .
we do ot se at nt as ly ed in is ce of a am el , or at he ld be op - ed to ng rd - to - rd es , ly at he ng es le to im re ed by he al es le at he me of is rk .
in is er , we ke se of re le nt es at ow us to op th am nd bi - am ls of rd on nd re he er - es in ng at lt .
he nd ey on of is er es in ur fo - us on ng he em of rd on at he al el by ng , to he st of ur ty , at he ly ts on he er re se ed by he el lf .
we ve dy wn at he od - el - ed es of an ( 23 ) nd el - er ( 23 ) re ed by ir ce of ch s; in he ng on we te at he te ch re ed by nt ( 23 ) ts is er , oo , om ng he al on er is el .
gh in le ne ld op a an el in he dl or dp me - ks at ld nt or rd - to - rd es , he ed ch es ld ly be en re ex an se ed or he nt am ls , nd us en ss ly to fy ti - al ns .
se ur wn rk is ed on re re - nt an es , we re le to op ch es ng a rd ss of ms wn as ov in te lo ds ( ks , on , & er , 23 ) , ch ce es om he os - or on er es .
we de ce at he ns ed by ur ms re ed al or ar - al , ch ws us to aw lu - ns ng al er ts nd to id he ng ts of ad oc ch es .
am el
ve el
ke dp - 23 , ur ls me at he es er on by he er re le ta - ns of he us to es of ds .
rd se - es at re nt th he us ve a od of 23 , le rs ve a od of 23 , so he or ty of a on is ed by ts or ty .
so as in dp - 23 , we te he or ty of a on by ng at he ce of ds in he on as ed ng to a ar ic ve ss .
et w 23 .
. w n be he ds in he on .
et - ng de he ng or of ce es , ur am el es at he th rd in he se - ce , wi , is ed as ws :
( 23 ) de if wi is a el al em .
. x m ) or wi .
if so , te a ic rm ( es
if ot , se an ng al rm or wi .
we gn es to ch le ce as ws :
, wi is ot el n ( 23 ) wi is el 23 ( 23 ) a .
wi 23 .
. x m j wi is el b .
wi j wi is ot el n
re 23 is a er of he el , n is he er of ly ed ds ( i 23 ) , n is he er of es al em as ed in se n ds , nd p# is he ty of ng a rd ry .
en er , se ns ld he ng on er wi en he us ds wi 23 .
. w 3g :
i 23 23
i 23 23
re we se 23 to er to he am me bu - on in ep 3a .
( he p# nd 23 p# rs in is bu - on lt om he ss ed to te a rd om nt es : er ch me is ed , a rd ry is ed th ty p# nd he ss ds , or se no rd ry is ed th ty 23 p# nd er me is ed . )
we ow de me on or he ns at re lt to is el .
st , ce at in ep 23 , en n is ll , he ty of ng a el al em is ly ge .
as re rd ns re ed nd n es , he ve ty of ng a el em es , ut er rs ly .
is rt of he el ns at ns th oo ny nt al ms ll ve ow ba - ty , ng re or he er to fy a eg - on ng of ly ew al ms .
in ep 3a , we ne he ty of a el al em as he ct of he es of ch of ts es .
is es at ry ng al ms ll be ly ed .
ly , in ep 3b , we ay at he ty of ng an ce of he al em is or - al to he er of es as dy ed .
in ef - ct , he er es at a ew al ms ll nd to ur ry ly , le st ll ur ly ce or ce .
in ar , he on er rd en - es ed by ur el es a er - aw ri - on or ge ra ( ia , ur , & re , 23 ) , he nd of on at is nd in al an - ge ( pf , 23 ) .
he el we ve st ed is an ce of a nd of el wn in he al re as a ch - et ss ( on , 23 ) .
he et ss is om - ly ed in an cs as a on - ic or or ng ls , nd is ly ed to er - ns ( 23 ) al el of on ( rn et al . , 23 ) .
he et ss as wo rs : he on er 23 nd he se on 23
he on er es ow ny rs ll ly be nd in a ta et of a ar ze ( re , ow ny rd es or a ar er of ns ) , nd he se on es he al cs of a er ( re , he ar es in a rd pe ) .
a re ed al nt
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
of ur el nd ts ip to he et ss is ed in ix a , ut is on ds us to re - er to ur am el of rd on as he et ss ( dp ) el .
so ar , he el we ve ed ns li - es to es of ds re re re no ce es .
er , se he ut us ns ce es , we ed to nd he el to ac - nt or em .
in he ed el , ch is ts of a ce of ds nd ce es , nd es re nt th he ut if ng rd es ( ut ot ce es ) ds he ut us .
to te he ty of a ce of ds nd ce es , we me at is ce as ed ng he el ve , th he on of an ra ep : er ch rd is ed , an ce ry er $ is ed th ba - ty p$ ( or ot , th ty 23 p$ ) .
or ty , we ll ss is on of he el in he in dy of is er , nd er he er to ix a or
we ve ow ed a ve el at ws us to te he ty of ny on of he ut us .
we re ft th he em of ce , or ly ng he st ty ta - on om ng ll es .
we ed a od wn as bs ng ( an & an , 23 ) , a pe of ov in te lo hm ( ks et al . , 23 ) in ch es re ly ed om ir al or on en he nt es of ll er es in he el .
bs ng is an ve re in ch ( er a er of ns ed as a rn - in od to ow he am - er to ge ) ch ve on es a le om he ll or on jd .
ur er , he es of st re al rd es , ch of ch an ke on wo le al - es , ng to a rd ry or no rd ry .
es ay be ed at om or ng ny er d; on es ot er ce he er ll ly ge to ng om he or on . 23 ch on of he er ts of ng gh ry le ry on nd ng ts ue ed on ll er nt ry ts .
ce ch et of ts to he ry es ly er - es a on , ng es is nt to ng es of ds as ur es .
gh bs ng is a ch ng hm , re he re ta et is le to he er at ce , we te at re re er ng es wn as le rs ( et , eu , & ll , 3; rn et al . , 23 ) at an be ed to ce
23 of se , ur nt at on es ot er is a al e; in ce , me ns ay ad to er ce an rs , nd ng at nt ns ad to he me ts is ne ay of ng or ce of he er , as we do in ix a .
ns of he or on in an ne on ( ng ch ce in rn ly ce ) .
we rn in he al on to he on of ow a le er ht be ed or ur wn el in he re .
ll ls of ur bs ng hm re ed in ix a .
to te on to us ls of rd on , we rt ts on he me us ed by nt ( 23 ) nd an ( 23 ) .
he ta is de - ed om he er us ( in - at - er , 23 ) of he es se ( ey & ow , 23 ) , ch ns ic ns of es ed at 23 - to 23 - th - ds .
he ta as st - ed by nt , ho ed es nd on - ds , ed al es ot ec - ed at he en , nd ed he st of he ds to a ic on ng a ic io - ry ( i . e .
ch ic rm as ys en he me ic rm ) .
he ng us ns 23 es , th 23 , 23 rd ns nd 23 un - ue es .
he ge er of ds er ce is 23 nd he ge rd th ( in es ) is 23 .
he rd es in he us re ed as he ld rd or on , ut re ot ed in he ut to he em ( pt or rd es at re so ce es ) .
he ss ed to te is us ns at it is ng ny of he es of al ld - ed ch .
ot he st of se is he ic ty th ch nt ns of he me rd re ro - ed , a or ch ly es rd ta - on re lt .
on he er nd , he us is so ng ny es ch ld id in on , ch as on on , ss , nd on .
le is on of ld - ed ch is at ic , he us es de a ay to te he se of ly al es or on , nd ts ct on to er rd ta -
on re
or ve on , we pt he me ea - es ed by nt ( 23 ) nd an ( 23 ) : re - on ( er of ct ms nd ut of ll ms nd ) nd ll ( er of ct ms nd ut of ll ct ms ) .
se es re ad in he al cs y; he me es re en wn as cy nd ss in he ni - ve ce ty ( nt & ht , 3; is - en et al . , 23 ) .
we so rt ts in ms of 23 ( er on ic ed in al in - cs , so wn as f - re or f - re ) .
23 is he eo - ic ge of on nd ll , ed as , nd es ts re on nd ll re ry nt .
we rt he ng es or ch el we se :
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
es st be ly ed to nt as ct .
p , r , f : on , ll , nd 23 on ds : th nd - lp , lr , lf : on , ll , nd 23 on he on , i . e .
bp , br , bf : on , ll , nd 23 on ly ig - us es ( i . e .
ce es re ot ed in he ts ) .
as an le , ne a ne - ce us se or - ct on is ok at he ig og re , re ad we nd he on ok at he do g he re .
re re en ds in he nd on , nd ix in he ue n; ee of se ds ch .
we rt ll es as es , so p = 3% ( 23 / 23 ) , r = 3% ( 23 / 23 ) , nd f = 3% .
ly , bp = 3% ( 23 / 23 ) , br = 3% ( 23 / 23 ) , bf = 3% , lp = 3% ( 23 / 23 ) , lr = 3% ( 23 / 23 ) , nd lf = 3% .
te at if he er ly es ll of he es in he ue lu - on , ut so es ra es ( ta - on ) , en ry ll ll ch 3% , ut ry on nd ry 23 ll be er .
ly , if he er es no ct es , ut ls to fy ll of he ue es ( on ) , en ry on ll be 3% , ut ry ll nd 23 ll be er .
in er se , es or rd ns nd al ms ll be ow 3% .
or on , we rt es as ll or ts dp - 23 em ( nt , 23 ) nd ns n - am on ms ( an , 23 ) , ch we ll er to as gs - u nd gs - b ( or he am nd bi - am ls ) .
th nt nd an se ne ch es ( i . e . , ir ms ke a le ss gh he ta , ng ch ce in rn ) , so in ir rs ey te on nd ll pa - ly on ch 23 - ce ck of he us nd ph he ts to ow ow es ge as re ta is ro - ed .
ey do ot rt on ll or ry re - on nd ll .
ir ts re er sy , ut ce ms to ze ly , er ut 23 es .
to te on th ur wn ts , we ed es or dp - 23 nd gs er he le us , ng ns ns of se
ce ur hm es om ns ed om he or on er an a in - le al on , re re al le ys to te ts ce .
or st of ur ns , we ed a le le en er 23 , 23 ns .
we ed a od wn as ed ng ( ts & st , 23 ) to ed ce of he er , nd in me es ( ed ow ) to in an on of he ap on by ng es nd he de of he or .
is ed us to ne le es en a om le of he or nd a le re ly ng he ap ta - on .
ls of he ng nd ap on ro - es an be nd in ix a .
23 he ns re le at tp : / / ww . ch . ri . om /
( a ) ng p# th
23 = 23
ue of p#
23 th p# = . 23
23 or ds ( f ) nd al ms ( lf ) in he dp el ( a ) as a on of p# , th 23 23 nd ( b ) as a on of 23 , th p# : 23
ts nd on
he dp el we ve ed as wo ee me - rs : p# ( he or ty of a rd ry ) , nd 23 ( ch ts he er of rd es ed ) . 23 ig .
23 ws he ts of ng of p# nd 23
er es of p# lt in re ng ds , ch ds to ve ll ( nd us 23 ) in he on .
he ng se in en cy is ue to an ng cy or he od - el to te rt ds er , a on we ss er ow .
er es of 23 ow re el ds , ch so es on ll , ut ns to de - de on er a nt .
ue to he ve on en en cy nd on cy , re is no le st ue or er p# or 23
in he er of is on , we us on he ts or p# : 3; 23 23 ( gh rs re ly ar we ss se ey
in le 23 , we re he ts of ur em to se of dp - 23 nd gs - u .
gh ur em as er on cy an he rs , ts en cy is ch se .
ce es ot ry a at al be - en nt es , ce ng he re or a le le dy es ng er ny an - om es he es of er to ce a ry at ch on or ot .
le 23 ws he an nd an - rd on in 23 es nd or es er es en om 23 nt ns of he hm th nt om ns .
he me cs
23 he dp el ly ns a rd ee er , q , ed as a or er he ty of an ce ry ( ee ix a ) .
en he ge er of wn ce es , he ue of q ld ve le ct on ts , so we ly ed q 23 or ll ns .
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
rd on cy of am ms .
te : p , r , nd f re on , ll , nd 23 or rd s; bp , lp , tc .
re he ng es or us es nd al ms .
st es re wn in ld .
dp ts re th p# : 23 nd 23 23
ts of he dp el , ed er le es .
es ( 23 ns ) es ( 23 un )
te : en 23 ( f ) , on 23 ( lf ) , nd ve og or ty re ed er 23 es om nt ns of ur bs er , er 23 es om a le un , nd er 23 es om nt ns of ur ap on ( ee xt ) .
rd ia - ns re wn in es .
re so ed or en es ed om a le un of he er .
es om a le un re ot de - nt , so to ce he nt of on en se es ey re en at 23 - on ls ( at ns 23 , 23 , .
. , 23 ) .
ss , ey ow ss ty an he ly nt es .
in th es , on cy is re le an en cy , ly se re re ar er al ms to ge er in a le le .
ly , le 23 es ts or he te ap on re .
is re is ly ct , ce if it re le to fy he ue ap on , re ld be no ce in ts ss le ns of he go - hm .
in ct , ed to he rd ng ce - re , re is ly ly ss on in 23 es , nd er on in ty . 23 ss , he ap on es ed in ng ns th if - ly er es .
se ns so ve er on cy , gh en cy ns ow .
he on at en cy is so ow th he dp el is at it en is - es ly ng ds .
ny es of se ds ur in on ns ch as ts at nd do ou , ch he ys - em ts as a le ds .
is rn of rs is nt in he ry es : ry on is ry gh , ng at en he em es a ry , it is st ys ct .
ry ll is ow , ng on .
we ed he or of he em re ly by ng he ed us nd on .
a ll 3% of he ed on nd ly 3% of ns st of
23 he ge rd on in he es of he te ap ns is ue to a le er .
he rd on ng he ng ne ns is 23 , ll ow he rd on in he le ns , re re re no rs .
on ( on ) rs , le ly 3% of es nd 3% of ns re er on - ds .
( me di - al en rs , er 3% , re ed by ng a ct rd in an ct on . ) ut 3% of lo - ns ( th es nd ns ) re ed of wo ds , ly ll he st re ee ds .
to te he on , we de he ms on of he st 23 es in he us in ig .
23 , nd he 23 st ly nd al ms in ig .
he 23 st nt ns ed as le ds by he em re wn in ig
it is ng to ne he ns ed in ig .
23 th ce to he ng re on ns ly on of ds .
rs ( 23 ) , in ar , es a er of es of ns eg - on rs ( ng ir ns as ce ) .
al of he ll es nd al ns in ig .
23 ( e . g . , nk ou , ts ht , ye ye , ok at is ) re ed ng er es .
in on , me of he er on rs nd by ur am em ch he es of ic es en by rs : he rb er an ou nd un rs ts a , is is , se re , nd ee he .
al ns in lt ch so st at a ew of he ns nd by he em ( e . g . , id ou , at do ou ) ay en be ed as le ts by ts in me es .
er , he nt nd ty of ns nd by he em is ly ch er an at ch - rs ve so ar nd ce or in ng en .
we ll er or he nt ny er on of er ns ly rd ns re ar to se nd by ur dp el ( we rn to is ue in he al on ) , nd ad rn to he on of hy se ts re nd .
he er ms ar : ps of ds at ly co - ur te he ni - am on in he el , ce ey it ng rd - to - rd es .
he ly ay he er an re se es is by ng at se ns re in ct ds es .
as an le , er he rd at .
in ur us , he al ba - ty of he rd at is 23 / 23 . 23
er , he al ty of at ng he rd ts is ar er : 23 / 23 . 23
ce he ng on be - en ts nd at es he ce mp - on of he el , he er es at at st be a le rd .
te at by ng he es of he rs 23 nd p# , it is le to ce he el of ta - on , ut ly ly , nd at he st of ng er
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
he st 23 es in he us as ed by he dp el ( ed ly or ty ) , ng at he el ts he us .
he ic re of he bs ng re is nt : me es , ch as to nd it , ve wo
rs .
or le , ng he ue of p# to 23 ly es he ls ce or rt al ms , ut ns ll ke up 3% of th es nd ns in is se .
es of en cy se by a ew ts , ut re ll ll ow se of us ms .
he in ve ce en ts th p# : 23 nd p# : 23 is at th he er ue , re - nt ds re re ly to be ed to ry rt ne - or wo - me ks ( ed in a op in on cy ) .
er , nt ds ll nd to be ed as re .
it is so th ng at , gh he on of ns in he ns nd by dp - 23 nd gs - u is le to he on nd by ur wn el ( 3% ) , ly 3% of ns nd by se ms re lo - on rs .
is ct ms to ct ur is of he es of ur wn am el , nd es a um - er of ns .
hy nt se er am ls it he me ms as ur wn ? is re me er ss in ur el at ht be ng or om - ng he ms th on ? is it os - le to gn a ul am el or rd on ? we ss se ns in he ow -
er am ls
dp - 23 nd ch
in he us on , we ed at he al on er ur am el is ne at ti - es on ns as al ds .
ur er
on of ns ( 23 ) gs ls on - ed at he al on er se ls is a ly ed us .
at ut nt ( 23 ) dp - 23 el ? le he on of is ni - am el es it lt to ne at he ti - al on is , ur in rn as er it ts he me ms th on as ur wn am el .
he ts ed by nt do ot di - te on , ut it ns ut at se ts , ke ns , re ed by he te ch re ed .
we ed is by ng he ty of us ns of he us un - er ch el , as wn in le 23
he ts te at he dp - 23 el ns er ty to he on nd by ur bs er an to he on nd by ts wn al ch hm .
in er ds , he el ng dp - 23 es or he er - cy on on , ut ts te ch hm ds a nt on at as er cy ut er ty er he
we ed wo ns ng at ur wn ce re es ot er om ar ms .
st , we ed he bs er in ee nt ys : th no ce - al es , th a ry er ry er , nd th om nd - es .
he ts re ly he me ss of ni - on ( ee ix a or ls ) .
nd , we ed an al us by ly ng ll he ds in he ue us nd ng em to es th he me er of ds as in he ue us .
is on es a us re he am mp -
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
le or he or on ce on he al ge us .
in ar , he am on of he el ms to be at lt .
in he ol - ng on we nt me al ns de - ed to er st is is .
in se ns , we ge he el of al ms ed in ep 3a of he el , ch as so ar ed at al ms re re - ed by ng es ly at om .
if he al or al el is le or he dp ls on of he us , en ng he al el ld ve ce .
er , if he em is at he am on ls to ac - nt or al es in he us , en a er al el ll ot ke ch ce .
he ct of he al el on rd on
ne le nt to he al el is to re - ce he on of a rm on er ho - es th he re ic on at es ve nt es of ce .
is on is re in ne th he dp - 23 nd gs ls .
in gs , me es re ed ne ng to ir al on in he us .
in dp - 23 , ho - me es re so ed ne , ut ng to ir al on in he nt on .
or ls ke dp - 23 nd he dp el , re he ho - me on is ed to te on ms er an rd ns , he er ch es re se .
it is ly rd to nd he dp el to in - er he me on in he on ly th ng he on lf .
re ng is on , er , we ed ly ng he me on to he al on in he ue xi - on .
is re es an er nd on he or - ce at ld be ed if he on re ed .
we nd at is ge ed on 23 at ( to 23 , th 23 23 nd p# : 23 ) , ut de al - st no ce on en 23 ( 23 ) .
ce of he ho - me on as re ot ed .
he 23 st nt ms in he on nd by he dp el ( ft ) nd in he ct on ( ht ) .
pt or he es z nd s , al ms re ed ly or ty .
nt le gs of a le ic rm re ed by es .
he cy of ch al em is wn to ts ft .
ms in he ed on re ed as ct ( + ) or ct ( ) .
es of ct ms in he ed on re er an in he ue on se ny es of se ms re ed or by ns .
on is ct .
if ur ce re ks ly , he am em ld be le to ly fy he ds in he ed us .
is is ly at we nd , as wn in le 23
he ce of he dp el ps ly , nd st rs ur on nt ds ( as ed by he ct at en cy is ch er an on cy ) .
in on - st , dp - 23 nd gs - u ve a ch er et om he ed us , in ng he ce
se ts ly at he dp el lf , er an he bs ng re we ed or ce , is
er es ld be de to he al el in or - er to te a er el of rd es .
or le , ng a am or am me el ld ow he er to re me on of cs .
ng he el on es er an es ld or - te ts on he ce of ls or le ht .
er an ng ll se nt es , we ed a on to ne an te er nd on ce in he am dp el .
in is on , we ed he el th ma - on at no nt ld ly ve ss to : he et of rd es at ur in he ly ed or - us .
he al el is ed as ws :
wi 23 23
re l is he ue et of al ms in he ta , nd is me ll ng nt .
in er ds , is el is a re en a rm on er he ue ex - al ms nd he ic el 23
if 23 , he el is
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
he 23 st ly ng ms in he ed on at st of le ds om he ue on .
se ms re ll ed as le s; he ue rd es ve en ed or ty .
he cy of ch em is wn to ts ft .
ve og es of us ns er ch am
cy of he us ms on he ed us .
te : ow gs fy he ls ed to te ch en - on .
mn gs fy he nt ns : he ue on , he on th no ce - al es , nd he on nd by ch em .
al og es re 23 se wn .
ed so at ns ay ly in ds om he ue on .
if > 23 , a ll nt of se is ed so at ew al ms re le , ut ve ch er ty an he ue al ms .
if he el ll es ns en is ry ll , we ve ce at he am on , er
te : p , r , nd f re on , ll , nd 23 or rd s; bp , lp , tc .
re he ng es or us es nd al ms .
st es re wn in ld .
dp ts re th p# : 23 nd 23 23
an ny re in he on el , is le or
he ts om is el re wn in le 23
ot ly , he on 23 es in is el re ry gh , nd re is a ge nt in en 23 es st us ls .
er , nt of on ed to he el , ts es re ll ly ow , nd ns in a ob - em , ly or nt ms .
er et al .
/ on 23 ( 23 ) 23
ts of he dp el ng ue .
te : wn , or ch ue of , is en 23 ( f ) , on 23 ( lf ) , nd he ge of ns nd al ms at re ti - rd ns .
ng he se re 23 ds me in - ht to he ce of se ls th ed al ls .
he on nd , th a on st - ng of 3% ns , as er ty an he ue on .
is is te he ct at he st ba - le ct al ms re ut ve rs of ni - de ss le an he ue al ct al ms re ed te ir ly ow ty se ly he st ce of ch rd is ed or by he al el .
nt es re ed or by he rt of he el at es ed ds , re es re or - al to he er of us es .
re , ow - ty al ms ur no ty ( nd at of ny er rd ) er he st ce .
is is hy he ns ng in he dp el ng ue re he st - cy ns : er ny es , he ty ss ed by ng se ns as le ds hs he ss st in ng he
he ts of is on st at he ny of ns nd by he am dp el re ot ue to he ss of he al el .
ss of ow od he al el is , it ll ot be le to ly me he ce of he am on ov - ng rd ns en ng he ll us .
in or - er to ce he er of ns , it is ry to nt or al es en ds .
re ng ow to do so , er , we st nt al ts ng he ty of ur lu - ns ut am ls .
dp - 23 , he dp el , nd er am ls
he ic ls ed in dp - 23 nd ur et ss el al to te nt ra - ve es .
to te a us ng dp , he um - er of rd es is ed , en he en es , en he ms of he ds in he on , nd ly an ng or he et of ns .
ng he dp el , he th of he us ( er of rd ns ) st be ho -
23 re re 23 al ms in he us , so er he al el , he ty of ch of se is ly 23
re re 23 es nd p# : 23 , so a le - er rd as ty . 23 er 23
ng by he nt or 23 ds ue 23 or ne - er ds ot in he ue on .
er ct ds ll ve ch er ty .
en , nd en he ce of ds is ed , ic - ly ng he er of rd es nd he on .
gh se wo es to ng a us re ry nt , it is le to ow at , by ng he ic ns ed at ch ep of he dp - 23 ve ss , he wo es an lt in ly he me on er rd se - es .
in ix b we ow at by ng ow he ze of he on nd he en es re ho - en in ps 23 nd 23 of he dp el , we an ce ns er ds at re nt to he ri - on en by he dp el en ed on he to - al er of ds .
