an on ts on a ue nt or ng le ge om a ew ic es .
er ow a ld ht st sp he ng of a on rd , ch as se .
en al es of es ed ly by er ts , he is ly to ke an ve ap at es ar nd he ta ed .
he ld ow ge er ny ew ty is a se or ot , nd he ld be ly ct , pt or he al ey , er or el .
he ty to ze om se ta is al ot ly in ng rd gs , ut in ng ut he es of ts , ct ns , al es , nd ny er ns of ge .
is le es nt ch at ks to nd an ve ng nd ng in al ms ( ee so al ns al by er , um nd le in is ue ) .
he al is to ld ly le , ly ve ls at te al in al ts , nd by in hy an on ks he ay it es nd ow it an ed en ch se ta ( 23 , 23 ) .
ur us is es ( 23 ) , ng he al es of an ce er an ic al es at nt
st us ts of ve on nt ne of wo es .
he st es
ng or : um , j .
( it . du ) .
on ly in - al , ge - nt al ms of ce , ed on ty , on , on or er al cs ( 23 , 23 23 ) .
is ch as ed to ul al ls of an on in ry ks , ut ls to nt or ny nt na of ng nd ng in ex , al - ld ns , ch as ve gy , ve cs or ve gy .
he nd ch ms to re re of he ss of an ce , by ng to ed in - ic ge ns , or ve es ( 23 ) .
an ve ry ay be ht of as a em of ed ts , er th a et of al ws , al ts , or er ry es , at de ve ce in a ar in .
er , ry - ed es to on ve en ly lt to ze , ly in ms at ke ve ns ut or or an be od in ms of al
we ll ue or an ve ch , re ed ge nd al ce te er an te , ng us to ld on he ts of th ns .
we st on as a rm of an al ce er ed ic ls of he ld .
se ls an be en as ic ve es ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) or as ( 23 , 23 ) , ng he ge ut a in at es ve on om se ta .
is ch as ly me le in nt rs , as es in al ce ( 23 ) nd cs ( 23 ) ve ed al ls or ng ve es nd ry - ed al ce is al , as se an ve ls ve ed to ew ne - ng ms th re ul nd re an - ke es ( 23 , 23 ) .
ry - ed an ls ry - ed an ls of on us on ee nt ns : at is he nt of ic es , ow re ey ed to rt id ng , nd ow an ey es be ed ? he er es es h ut me ct of he ld he ng of a rd , he on of a ty or ry , or he ce of a en se en ed ta x nd ct to he ts of a
ww . ct . om 23 - 23 / $ - ee nt er q 23 er td .
ll ts ed .
oi : 23 / j . cs . 23 . 23
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
nd ry t .
es re ed by ng or es ia es le :
x; t z
ht 3; jt
he od p ( jh , t ) es ow ll ch is ts he ta , nd he or ty p ( jt ) es he ty of he is en he rs nd ge .
or il - es p ( jx , t ) re al to he ct of se wo ms , ng he rs ee of ef in ch is en th he ts of he nd ry t nd he ed ta x ( ee he al on to is al ue by hs nd le or er nd : ry al ne ) ng is an rk is st he ng nt or ur ve ls .
he ge es in ng is es nd ty ns at rt an ce or a en sk nd in .
in ry - ed an ls , he in ry ys is al le .
re ly , he in ry t es a ce ht of te es , ch as ll le gs or a rd , ng th he rs p ( jt ) nd ds p ( jh , t ) .
or es nd ds re us ot ly al ds of he rs us ns , as in me an es of on nd or ol ( 23 , 23 ) , or us an es of ve ng ( 23 ) .
er re ey ed to re a le al re ss ll ns , as in ds ng an is of on ( 23 ) .
er , ey re ts of ct ms of ge at go ly nd he rs ct ce of he ld , nd an ke ly nt ms in nt ns .
we ll sh at st wo nt ls of ge in a ry ( re 23 ) .
gh ve es ay ll be ch er an is re ts , we us on he al ts of es ed to rt ve on .
he se el of a ry is a ed ic el at es a ty on er le es es , es , es , ts .
is el ly lt on me nd of ph re ng ns en es , ch as a ic hy or a al rk , er th a et of al rs .
he ph re es ve ts of he ic l; he ri - al rs ne re ne - ed ve ls .
at a er el of ge re ct es at te he ss of ed ls a er ay er , ch as he on at a en in is ed ly or ly .
ce at ll ls of is ry hy ( re 23 ) ng es to er ed ts of he ta , ng ed ls en he ct in es of a ry , nd ng he ct in es es an be ed ut in a ed nd le ay th al an ls ( 23 ) .
p ( es |
ct in es
p ( re | es )
ed ic el
p ( ta | re )
ds in ve es
re 23
a al an rk or ry - ed on .
he er es ta ut he ld ( e . g .
es of ts at a rd rs to ) nd st ct er ed ta ( e . g .
ch er ts he rd an er to ) .
he rs ve ry es es at an in he ed ta nd at rt he ed ns .
he ry ts ge on at st wo ls of on : a ed ic el es ns ut he ty of le ta ts , le re ct in es te he ce of le es at he er ay er .
ch el es he es nd ty ns at rt ng at he el ow .
rs or ct in es an me om le es , ng er - el in ge or in - al al es .
he ng ns be ry - ed an ls or al nt ve ks , ng em th ve es ng er al ng or ed ge ne .
we in th he sk of ng ds or ry ls , nd us on he st el of ce : ry - ed on .
en we te he ll al ch in wo er ns , ty on nd
ng es or gs al es of an ve on ly an th he dy of ry ng ( 23 ) .
he ic al sk ts rs th a et of ts or al li , nd a al el ( e . g .
et ) at es to a et of he ts .
rs ve al es of ts , nd ps ve es ( on - ts ) , nd st en er ch er ts he el es to .
se al ry - ng ks ct he ce of he em en ce in ng ds or ds of gs , nd al ls of ry - ng nd rd - ng ve ed in el .
ey ly ly on om - up al - se al ms , er ly ic ( 23 , 23 ) or ed in ms of ty or on ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
se ls me ly le ns of es nd ow ls te to es : or ce ( 23 ) , ch ct gs to a le ry , nd ch el ks ut a ue ry , so ch ct es ly ne el .
er , es ns of es nd rd gs re ly re
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
ed , ng ir ve in es .
he ed or a re ry - ed ch as en en ed ut ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ut ly ed by
ts om th se ns me er in a an rk ( 23 ) .
in ms of on 23 , es ut he ng of a el el er to ts of ts te ns or a ds ng or a ry to be ed .
ct ge ut ry re , rd ge , nd rd - ry gs es he rs nd ds or se es .
um nd xu ( 23 , 23 ) us on ng es or ct - nd ts , ch re ly ed to a ee - ed my th ls at us ls ( 23 , 23 ) .
ly , he is ce of te rd gs ts of ll es in a ee - ed my of ts ( in re 3a , es nd to et ds , gs , ls , tc . ) .
er ly le ts of ts ot ng to es re ly ed ro ( or ry ow ) or ty .
he or an be er ed to or gs of ds to ic - el es ( 23 ) , or to or ng wo ds to ly he me pt
he od es a ic on at ds ll be ed by a nt nd ve er ( 23 ) , nd at he ts ed re a ir om le om he et of ts at he rd es to .
se rs nd ds ne to in ow en ze ct ls om ne or al es .
re 3b ws at on ws a nt ng to ic ce , ch ns up en le es to us on he st ic nt ic ry : e . g .
et ds if he es re ll et ds , or gs if he es re ll gs ut nt ds of gs .
on ng ic rs es om he ee - ed or .
in le , a or ld be ed er er al es , ch as a an ce ed om ty ts , as is on in ty - ed ls ( 23 ) .
ut to te , ee - ed rs ve en he is or he st te an ls of rd - ng , nt th a ed ic as in ns rd ng ( 23 ) .
he ng of on th re es es om he od : a le le is ot ly ic ut he pe of he ds on ,
nt nd ve er ly ed es
23 ic 23 er .
re 23
ry - ed an rd ng .
( a ) ng ds or ct es , om es of el rs .
ts re en ar ls to te he em ed by a ld er .
a ee - ed my of es es he is ce of rd gs : ch de in he ee ( ed ot ) is a le on of a rd .
ct es in he re of is is ce , nd te he rs nd ds ry to te se es en ta ( 23 ) .
( b ) on of he ls ns th 23 - ar - ld ns ns of on ( ry gs om ( 23 ) ) .
or th en nd he el , he ty of on es th ic ce to he es , nd is nt es er as re es re ed .
ee xt or
ds in ve es
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
ut ng al es wn at om , it ld be a ly us ce or ll es to ll in a en ic ry ( e . g .
et ds ) if he rd in ct ad a ch er on ( e . g .
gs ) ,
he cy or er , re ic es to be ly ed er er , re al es as re es re ed is a al le of an ng en ly ed es re ed .
um nd hs ( 23 ) ed to is as he ze le nd ed ow it ld ly in a de ge of na in ry ng , on , nd ty nt , ch re ot ly ed er a le al - ce nt .
he om - ng on is ot ys id , of se , nd he ze le ay be ly le .
xu nd en - um ( ed ta ) ve nd ts ts re ed or ed en rd rs ( en or ts ) re en es at re ly ot wn as nt om es .
is an rk as en ed to ng er ts of ic ng , ng ly ed is es te or ng rb es ( 23 ) , es ( 23 ) , or ra on ( 23 ) .
re re so ar ec - ns to an ic on ( ee er nd ng , is ue ( 23 ) ) .
se an es ve ed on ng at he om el of re 23 ng ut ch ds an er to ch es , ns or es .
re rk ld re ng he er - el ge at ts se es or ce , ow le rn he es at re rd - ry gs , or he nt ic ee of es ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
he ng on es a ly ed ng sk re an es at er ls of re 23 ve en ed
ng ut en es ny ds of es ay be ue of a en ty .
me of se es nd to ry ls ( is a se , is a sh ) ut ny nd to es , ch as is wn , as a en , or an y .
ty on as en he ct of us al ts nd al ls .
in a al sk , rs nd ut at ne or re es ve a el ty , nd st de ow to nd he ty to er es in he in .
or ce , ts ht be ld at as nd ns ry a in ne , nd ed to ge ow ly it is at ys so ry is ne ( 23 , 23 ) .
ry - ed ty on he st ic es of ty on ve ed al es nd nk es : es ke as he 23 ne at re ar ut ly al .
a ee - ed an el ( 23 ) ar to he um nd xu ( 23 ) rd - ng el ts ll or ts ut nk al es .
he el es at es re ed to a
ee - ed my ( 23 ) , nd at es re ed by a on ss er is ee ( re 3a , ft ) .
he on ss es a or er te ns of es at is re le an al ic ic es ( or he rd - ng or in ( 23 ) ) : es at ck ut a le ee of he my re ed , ut ly - ic es ( se at se ly in wo or re es ) re so ed ( re 3b ) .
is el es al ce or al es nd ir es , ch re in ct ed by a ic ng ss he ss of on .
th he ee re nd me on - ke ss or ng ty ns em to be t; an ls ng a ge of er rs ve ly ed ss ll th es ts
us al ls or nk - ty on ve ed re ic ge en - ns , ch as se es ( 23 ) or ns of es ( 23 ) .
in on th se ls , ry - ed es ve ar es in ng es ut er ds of es , re re ed or ge is ed .
ly nt ns of on ve en nd or al es , al es nd se es ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
to te ne ic le , en at es an te gh re , it ms ly at an ds an te gh re , ut ng at ns an te gh re es ss rt or he me on ut an ds ( 23 ) .
se es ot ly on ty , se an ds re re ar to ns an to es .
er es ar to ly on ic al ns : or le , a se ed by on is re ly to be nd in ly rs an ce
an ls an nt or se nt ns of on by ng nt rs ( 23 ) .
in ms of re 23 , es ut nt ds of le es re ed on nt ds of ed ic ls , ch re in rn ed by nt ct in es .
al es re wn in re 3a .
in ch se , he ic ee re nd he on ss of he lt el re ed by a ly ed ph nd a nt nd of ic ss er at re .
or es ut se es ( e . g .
es is ) , he or is ed by a sy on ss er a ed od - eb rk ( re 3a , le ) .
is or es he ry of ns in is in at a ey es is re ly to re a se th ts rs an ce sa nd ly ts es ve dg - ts ut se es ( re 3c ) .
a te ke an te gh re or hs re an an il ds to an wn ld ng me wn on ( e . g .
th or ze ) .
a ly ed ph an nt he nt on , nd ts ld es ( 23 , 23 ) an be ed
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
as he 23 ne
hs re an an il
ft ss + ld
ds in ve es
re 23
ry - ed an ty on .
( a ) ee ls or ty on : a ic el ( ft ) , a od - eb el ( re ) nd a al - ld el ( ht ) .
ch el es at es re ed by a nt ic ss er a nt nd of ph re , nd ch el is te or a nt nd of ty .
in he ic el , es re ed by a on ss : re is a ll ty of a ty ng at ny nt ng ny ch of he ee .
in he od - eb el , es re ed by a al on ss : re is a ll ty of a ty ng ly in ny es , nd a gh ty of ng at ty om he es to ch of ts rs .
in he al - ld el , es re ed by a om - ft ss ed ch at es ds ne nd of he on re ly ly to ve he el ty .
he ta el of he re ws es th gh or ty er ch of se ls : e . g .
he al - ld el rs es at de ll es nd me nt in he ar er .
( b ) ee le es if a ty is ed by he ic el , wn in er of ng or ty : es re st ly if ey an be ed by a ll er of ns , nd if se ns ur on ng es .
( c ) he ce of in es in an ls of ty on is ed by a le on in el ns or wo nt ds of es ( ry gs om ( 23 ) ) .
ts ed th a my nd a od eb er a et of es nd re ed to ke ve ts ut er ic or se es .
he an ic el ed ly th ts or ic es ut ot se es , nd ce sa or he an od - eb el .
ng a or ed by a om ft ss er at ph ( re 3a , ht ) .
ng es to rt ty on if ly ed es re ry to nt or es ut nt ds of es , es en re ng to in ow se es ld be ed .
an es an ss is on at ll ls of he ry hy in re 23 , nd we te by ng ow he ic ry ht be ed ( re 23 ) .
st , er he em of ng he ee re en aw le ta , in he rm of a ge on of es - ty rs ( e . g .
ns ve rp th , ps ve ir , tc . ) .
re re ny nt ys to ze es to a ee
( re 3a ) , ut we an ch or he ee at es he od p ( re ) or he et of ed es ( 23 , 23 ) .
ly , he st ce ws es to ry ly er he ee : or le , se as nd ys re ny es , se es ld be ed by in
is ch to ng a ed ic el es ly on ct ge at he st el in re 23 : a ic le ng at ng ds ld be ed by a ee re .
ld ch an ct in le lf by ed ? ct ge of is rt is en ht to be te ( 23 , 23 ) , ps se it ms so te om he ta of ce .
en an te is ce ,
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
ds in ve es
re 23
ng a ry or ow al es re ed er es .
( a ) en ct in ge at es ld be ed in a ic ee , th es ng ly er at ee , a an er an er he ee re at st ns a et of ed es .
wo ys to ze al es to a my re wn .
he ed re ll be he ee er ch ed es ry st ly .
( b ) al es ay be ed ng to us nt al es , ch as he ee wn re .
an ce in he al rk of re 23 an ct he ng es st ed by a et of ed es .
er , an ce an nt or ge on at ny el of on .
se at he er as ss to a re of nt al ms at es ic es as ll as er ic es , ch as ne - al rs nd nt rs ( re 3b ) .
ng he st rm es a de - ff en ty nd t to he ta , ch an be ed in ms of he al an rk of re 23
mp et al .
( 23 ) ed at er is de - ff , he ed es of al es re er ed or by es an er ar rs or rs .
in ry , he al an rk of re 23 ts a ed ng el at es as ut ta a on of es - ty rs , nd ly rs he ic le , rs he st ee re or he es in he et , nd es ns ut ow to ze ew , ly ed es .
it us ns ow he ry in re 3a ( ft ) ht be ed om aw ta , nd se ld in he ns of is es nd ve es or rd ng in ng en ed in he us on .
es an so be ed gh er es , ch as it n; or le , od - eb ns re ly ed at ay .
ke ty - ed ts of ty on , a al an ch ly es it ns at ny el of on , as en ly ve om ts or in ol : or le , ns th ir ( at he el of le ta ) , ns re ls ( at he el of re ) , nd ng gs an be ed to a ee ( at he el of ct es ) .
is ch ld in ow ng a le nt ut in re ( e . g .
ns re ls ) ht ad to ic es in es ut
al ng nd ng he le of ve es in ng nd ng as en st ly ed in he xt of al
on ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
or ny rs , ty is al to he on of a ry .
ey , or ce , ts at a ry es a et of na at re in ts in , he al ws nd er ry ms in ms of ch he na re ed or , nd he ts in ms of ch he na nd ry us re ed ( ( 23 ) , p .
he al an rk of re 23 es a ed nt of ce at ll se ls , ng ow al ls an be ed to ct nd in le ts , ow in - ic es de on of se ls , nd ow at ct in ge ld lf
at he st el of he hy re es ut es ng le ts .
or ce , a or ht ve in ts of a ts te , ch as ms nd sk rs , nd nt to ct rs , ch as es or re ms .
se ks ve en en ed as om - up al es ( 23 , 23 ) , ut re is ce to st at se ns re en en by al ge ( 23 ) .
nt rk as ed to in he nt ge nd es in al ms ng he sm of al al ls ( 23 , 23 ) .
se ls te a ar nd of ed ic el at he le el of re 23
or le , re 3a ws a al el at ld be ed to ke es ut he es of ts ed on ir ms nd sk rs .
ry - ed on of al re ny nt es ve ed ow le rn se al ls .
in re ve en th om - up nd op - wn ls .
om - up es ct al es to al re , ch as cy en es ( 23 ) , ed ic st ( 23 ) , or al ns ( 23 ) .
se es , en ey an be ed ly , ow al re to be ed or ny ds of es , ut ve or ge .
er , th ts nd ng en
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
es : ( r , d , s ) ( ks , es , ms ) al ws : r d , d s
ts an te es on es ct es re ( ar ) ic
ng in ry
es : ( r , d , s ) al ws : r d , d s
al ws : c c
es : ( r , d , s ) al ws : d r , s s
ds in ve es
re 23
ry - ed an al on .
ct al es in he al es at ay be ed to re es ng le es .
( a ) ct ge in a le al in an be ed ng a ph ma , a ic ve ar or hs .
es ll to ee es sk rs , es , nd ms th al es ly om ks to es nd es to ms .
en a ly ed on ( e . g .
en ng in a ry nd ic st in ) , he ph ma es a ed et of es or ow at ta ht be ed ( wn in ed ) .
in he st es , a se wn to be ed by ng in a ry ht se st in , or a se wn to se st in ht ly be ed by ng in a ry .
ng se es , he er ld it a ew se x , ch as st in as a om nd is ed by ng in a ry .
er es at ay be er a ri ut ch te he ry ld er be ed , ch as a ct al nk om ng in a ry to st in , or om st in to ng in a ry .
( b ) he ct ge at ts al ng in a le al em , he et or ( 23 , 23 ) , an be ed ng ic te ic ( 23 , 23 ) .
he ry es al es : re is me ty r at ny ct as he er to te he e; an us ct ll te he ne on ct th ty ar 3; on as no er es .
le al ns , en a ce of ns en ks nd he ne , re wn in ed .
in a xt in ch st ts ve ed to te he ne ( r is ll ) , th le nd he ry - ed an el er at ct a ly es he ne , as b nd c ly do ot ( 23 , 23 ) .
( c ) he te al el ( 23 ) ts a al an ch to ng le ms of ct al es .
ph as th nt rs of es nd ly ed al ws an be ed to in nt ds of al rk es at a er ht er .
ly ke ct es ut al re om st a ul of ns , ar oo ew to te cy or on ly .
se es st be ed by re ct or ge , ch as ge ut he ds of al ms or es in a in , ch as en he us of st op - wn es to al ng ( 23 ) .
he ry - ed an rk ce in es he ns to te om - up nd op - wn es .
in ms of re 23 , p ( re ) es he od or a ar al el ow ll at al re ns he ed rn of ts .
p ( es ) es he al ls or ty ow ll it ts th he rs ct in ge .
he st al el es he ct of se wo es .
if a al el ts he st ic nd of al ry ( 23 , 23 ) , he ct in ge at
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
ws se ls to be ed an be ht of as a er - el ry a ry or es .
ve ts ( 23 ) ve en ed he rt - ce of er - le rk es , ch in he ic es a er rs , ut ey ve ot en ed ly .
he pt of ic ls or ed ns is ll - ed in al cs ( 23 ) , re ct ic es ay be ed in ms of ic rs at te le ic es in a ge th ng es .
al ls or ng ct al es ve en ed by is ic gy ( 23 ) .
se al rs ( 23 ) re he ea of ng al al ls ed on an gy , ch es he es of es in a in nd he es at an ly to em , nd a et of al ws , ch fy he rm of ed al ps en es .
ly ng , he gy es he es at ar in al al ls , nd he al ws te he es nd ed
re 23 es wo es of is ch to on ( 23 , 23 ) .
st , er ng a al rk ng sk rs , es , nd ms , en ta on ts es .
he sk is ly ed by an gy at es he es to ee es es , ms , nd sk rs nd al ws ed er at gy , ng at ct es ly st en sk rs nd es , nd en es nd ms .
se es an be ed ng a nd of ic ph ar at ( 23 ) ll a ph ma .
he ar es ng ts on he al es a er st er , nd us ws ng es ut al re to be wn om se ta ( re 3a ) .
nd , er nt es ng ry - ed al ng ng le al ms ch as he et or ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
rs re wn a er of ts , ng th a ne at es ( ts up nd es se ) er in ks re ed on it .
er ng al in ch us ns of ts re ed on he ne , ts re ed ch ts ve he en al er to te he ne .
re 3b ws ow se ts an be ed as ry - ed an es ed by al in es , ch as he on aw : he ne es if nd ly if it is in ct th an ct at as he en al er .
is ry an be st re ly in ic te ic ( 23 ) .
ke om - up es to al ng , is nt ly ns ny gs re ts nd ng en ke ct es om st a ew ls , en or ts at ve er ed on he ne ne ( 23 , 23 ) .
is al rk or ry - ed al on as en ed to el ow le rn re ex al ms th en es nd ic es ( 23 ) , nd ow le se al ts to rm in al ng ( 23 ) .
ng ct al es he on of ow ct al es , or me - rk es , ht es be ed is a or en on in th al ce nd ve nt .
or me le ds of rk ow - ge , ch as he ic ph rs ed ve , it is le to te he ng em as a an ce at an be ed th le ch ms .
he te al el ( rm ) ( 23 ) es at es me in ne or re es , th ns en em ng on se es .
he el an be ed to er he er of es , ch es re in ch es , nd at ds of ps ld en es , ly om ta ( re 3c ) .
is ch is le of ng he ct es of he se ry wn in re 3a , ut ot he er es ed on bi - ic te ic ed to in es in me er ms ch as he et or ( re 3b ) .
al ds or ng in ic al ms ve ly en ed in al ce ( 23 , 23 ) , er , nd se ds ld de he is or re ul ls of an
he ry - ed an rk es a al ns to ss al al ns ut an on .
at is he nt nd rm of an ge , at le ls of on ? ow an ct in ge de ng of ew ts ? ow an ct in ge be ed ? at al es st be lt in ly ? ow do ms of al ng nd
ns or re ch ow ht ry - ed an ls ly to er ts of on re ed ge nd ve ce ar to ct , ch as ve cs , ve gy , or an an ls of pt ng nd rd ng be ed th an ls of ic on ( 23 ) to ve a ed ch to ge nt ? ow do an ls of ve ce te to ic ls of ( ly ) ve ng , ch as is ng or ic ng ( 23 ) ? ld a al an ch de ht to er ns of ve es es on , ch as gy or ke er al ms , he an ch is ot nt to be le in he me se at a ic pu - al el ld e; it ld be ed in ms of er it ds to ic ls th ry ue ss a ge of nt ta ts .
at ts of ve es nd ry - ed ce ll ve lt to in om a an ew ? ow ld an es to on ed re ly at he el of al ry ( 23 ) be ed th le ms ? ow an ey an be ed th al es at ve es ed ly nt th an es ( 23 ) ? rs of ce nd al ts ve en ed as ut he re , on , nd ns of es .
an we ld al an ls of ic es us to ur ls of ve es ?
ds in ve es ol . 23 no . 23 ly 23
ce ct th nd te er ed ic ge ? ly , ts at im to in a ad um of an on ve ed ly on er ed ce es or ed ge en - ns .
ur ew es th , nd ts
it is ar oo on to ay at a re al ry of ve ng nd ng ll ok ke .
he al - ld ms at en nd ts ce re ll ll nd he pe of ur ls , nd es of ic nd al ty ll ve to be ed ( ee ox 23 , nd al re xt ? in is ue ) .
et as re rk on on ds , ne ea ld ay a al le in ny ry nt : ic ce er es of ly ct , ly ed ns of he ld .
we nk he nt nd st rs of he al ve ce up at it or le ns of he rk ed re .
we we ar ts to ei xu , ck to , nd bh gi , ho ve ed ly on he ts ed re .
we ge rt om tt on es es , hi ic ch bs , he al ce on , he es s .
ll on al ng ve , he ul e .
on er nt ir ( j . b . t . ) , he rd te ps ( t . l . g . ) , nd he am en rt al te ip ( c . k . ) .
ry ta ed th is le an be nd at oi : 23 / j . cs . 23 . 23
