le ly ke ed al es ly , ef - ly , nd om ry le ta en om st ne or a ew ob - ns .
we ue at se es an be ed as an ns er a is ce of al al ls , ed by ng op - wn or ge in he rm of ve es .
we nt wo se es of ur ch , ng ve od - ls of an al ts nd ef ns th al om - up ls of ce .
le re ly od at ng he al re of a em om ns of ts or .
ke ny ve sk , al ce is an ll - ed em : he ta we ee ly ne he ue al re .
is em is se an he al ns ma at on es ot ly on .
ny es of ay al ce ow om st ne or a ew ns , re re nt en gh ta to ly er ns ! is ct ng , st al ts of al ce pt to te es in a om - up on ed on al ns .
se de st ls ( 23 ) , as ll as re nt al ls at dy an it pt of on ( 23 , 23 ) , nd st ms or ng al es ts ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
re we ue or an ve op - wn ch , in he al es et me - rk .
in st to rd om - up es to re ng ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) , ch im to ze or te er ll le al ls ( es nd rs ) , we se at le er ly a ly ed et of es ed by ir or ge of ow he ld ks .
he ed al es ot ly rm a ll et of ll le al hs , ut so te ic al ha - ms th ed al ty es , er an ch re al on - al ce nd ce ns .
he or ge at es is is ce of le al ls an be ht of as an ve ry , us to he ic es of al an - cs or cs at te ed es of le al ls in ir ns .
ng he ns of nt rk in ve nt ( ed in ( 23 ) ) , we ke he ce of ng ve es to be he on or an al ce .
er , ur ew ts th me nt ns ( 23 , 23 ) at
an ve ry ay be ed as a al es et el .
er , we er a ry to be he ng es at te he ge of al rk ls ly le in a en in he ns at ow a er to ct nd on th te al rk es ut el ms in he ce of al al ut .
en he is ce ed by an ve ry , al ce en ws he rd an gm : ng ch is ng to ts or ob - ty nd ng ir ns ut he em ng to se ts .
he on of an al ce th ng op - wn ge is te er - ul , ng us to in es ry id es ut el ty in th ic nd ly ed ns .
re we nt wo se es of ur ch , ng ve ls of an al ts nd ef ns th re
23 ng en al rs
we in th a gm ed by ik nd el or ng al er - ce in en ( 23 ) .
ts re wn a er of ks , ng th a ne he et or .
he et or es ts up nd es se en - er a et is ed on it .
me of he ks re ts , rs re ot , ut ir rd ce is no de .
ts ve a es of ls , on ch of ch ne or re ks re ed on he or nd he or es or ot .
ey re en ed ch ks ve he en al er to te he ne .
ik nd el ve ed us ns er ch en ly er he al us of ks om st ne or a ew ns .
of ar st is ir ds ng on ( 23 ) : on al 23 ( he 23 - 23 al ) , en ve wo ks ( ) ed on he or nd he or es .
st en
is ed on ow ay at th he or ne nd he or es .
ow ll en ay at is a et , nd is ot a et .
ly , is is a nd of ng ay : ng st ay at is nt to te he or ne ns ay he ly ed
re ts .
on al 23 ( he 23 ne al ) ,
th or on .
ut no ge
re on he r;
ts he is at
ik et al .
( 23 ) st at ns al ng re ay be ht of in ms , at is of ng he re of a al es et .
re 3a ws a es et , nt th ns ts er al 23
es ts er he or s; he ce of an ge
as he er to rn on he or .
we de he is a et at
if ck 23 is on he or
nd ck 23 , nd ) , se or if he or is ve ( se , rd es et ng ms en ly he ta ve no ay to ge on ss ce .
he ta re ot nt to te he al ce ns ed by nt - ed ds ( 23 , 23 ) , 23 or to ly ce he an al re ng ry al ty es ( 23 ) .
rd al ls of al th nt ( 23 , 23 ) , nt to um - od er es or he ly of es ts in re 3a ( 23 ) , er ct no ng ay re or ke no on ue to nt ta .
ik et al .
( 23 ) ue at nt - ed ng ld be ed re , if we nt he ed ta th ge rs of al ns .
er , is nt es ot in hy ts ke he es at ey do om he ry ed ta ly ed , or hy ey re ed in ng so .
or es it ze to he ee ts we nt re .
is a et ut
ly , ng on is sk ld be ed in ms of a le al uc - on .
we re as a se he on aw : a et or es if nd ly if ne or re ts re ed on it .
ed on he on aw nd he ta we an ce at ns ed .
if we er me a rm of ms or , ng he al er of en al rs , en we an is ot a et , as st en do .
er es ed by ik et al .
an be ed ly .
er , is ve el ot in ny le ut ve al es at le ke , or es es of ce in ir ts , or ir ty to er ic al ps om sy ta ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
it so es us he in nd rm of ms or .
in um , er ve ic or rd es et ng es a ng nt of es id al es .
we ow ow ow a an al ce ed on ng op - wn ge an in he et or ts , as ll as al ba - ic ts at ly ed he ty of ve ts .
st ly , he op - wn ge es he rm of a al ry th at st wo ts : an gy of ct , te nd nt es , nd a et of al es ng se ts .
re we at es ly y; we re ly ng a al nt ng he ls of ic al ic ( e . g . , ( 23 ) ) .
in he ic et or in , we ve wo ds of ts , ks nd s; wo nt es , ng a et nd ng a et r; nd wo ds of ts , a ck ng ed on a ne nd a ne ng .
he al le ng se ts nd es is st he on aw ed ve .
ad of ng as a se or ve ce , he al aw ow es a is ce of al es ts or al ce .
is ce is te ed : th wo ts nd ne or , re re ly 23 nt es ( re 3a ) .
he re so ed by he ry .
ed al es or ch is
on he on aw , se it ls 23
to he et of es nt th
al ce en ws by an ng of es er in ht of he ed ta .
we me nt ns so at he al od , he al - al rs to te ms or al ls .
or ll es in ds so or to , nd we an re he
ng at ck ns re nt of he st wo ms
is 23 or ny is nt al re .
he ng rm
th he ta nd 23 se , se of he ic on aw .
he or or ny ta et is en ly he on nd on of he or
ds ng ds as ws .
er he 23 - 23 al ( be a et : he nt es re
in nt .
he or er al es
ws ( ll rs re ro ) :
) , at st ne ck st .
er he 23 ne al , ng at ch ck as me nt
of ng a et .
he ro or es re en en as ol -
ly , he
ty at ck ay be ed by ng he ns of ll nt es ed ir or es :
re ly , we ld ow or me se in he or , by ng he od : => : ? ( cb ' fe be ic er an ic .
or ty we er ly he se -
ss se e; a ow el of se ld ve ar ts .
is a et
; en , er he 23 ne al ,
is ly ot (
in ng th an ts in he ds ng gm , he nt , he ne ts re er ck is ed on
, ts er he 23 - 23 l; nd
ts er he 23 ne al .
se es nd ly on he or ba - ty of ts , ly es ns ds ck - ng or : er he 23 - 23 al , th ks re re ly an ot to be ts is ly a et le
us re is no ed to it a al
ms or st to in hy es ke ss ly to be a et er he 23 ne al is nt ws ly as a al al ce .
er , we do ve to me at ts re at re ( ) .
ng he 23 ne ) , se he us al he ty of nd al ns ay ll he ce or
ck 23 ld in ly to be a et en er he 23 ne al .
in er to st er an al ng ly es is an rm of ms or , or ad a re ve le ch as he al on , es ld ot be ed nd ty , we ed ee ew et - or ex - ts on th ts nd 23 - ar - ld en ( in on th el & ik ) .
he st wo ts re st ke he al ds ng es , pt at we ed ts es of by ng a ng se .
ts st aw 23 ts ed on he or , of ch er 23 , in he re on , or 23 , in he on on , ed he or .
we ed at is ma - on ld ad ts to et ir ve or or ts to er
, nd us , if ed by he an ms or , to ow ng or ak
ng a et ns to ne (
om he st al .
us or
we ve lt ts a nt er ry , ng er ls nd a ad or , ut re we te he ts to et or ms .
ng he re re ed at om om he me or on ng , wo ew ts le nd ts re ed ee es to ge he ty at ch ne ld te he or : st , re ng it on he or , as a e; nd , er a 23 - 23 l; rd , er a 23 ne al .
es re ed on a 23 - 23 le nd en ed to he ge 23 - 23
he an lt ty ts nd he el ns re wn in es 3a ( re ) nd 3b ( on ) .
er wo ts ve he me rn of ed in - at ne nd er he 23 - 23 al ) , ts an ts re nd ot to be ly nt nd re ed er or is is .
in to ch ts ne s; he st - ng al - ng he el , we ed es re ry se to he ue se es .
re ly , ts ts ed he an el er th ls nd ns .
ng he 23 - 23 al , an gs of th ts ed ve ne , ut re so in he re on re he va - on of he or as re ng .
ng he 23 ne al , ll ts in th ns re 3% re at ad he er to te he or , nd he an ed to ne : ow in he re on , ut gh in he on on - on .
ur - ar - ld en de es / no ts at re ly ar , ss th re nd on ns ( 23 ) .
an al ce us rs to ow al al es , ng he an on of ms or er an he al al on .
er , an ve on of ur ta is at ts re ly ng a on of al ng nd le cs .
ng he 23 ne al , le ld og - ly ce at ey ve no on ut he us of nd en ll ck on he se te of ts as a lt , ut he ed or ny ly an om - ns .
to le ut is ty , ur rd dy ed al ng ay in he
ce of us ta at ld be ed to rt ve ng .
ts in aw he re ng , ut ow he al ls ed ee ts , .
er ng he ne ty at ch ct ld te he or ,
ts aw wo ls : a 23 - 23 al , ed by a 23 - 23 al , in ch ts ed he or er .
he an is ce is us to re 3a , ut ow es ht ( ng ll le ts of al rs to he ee ts .
as re , he or er al es
, he od be en as
( er he on aw ) nd 23 se , nd to 23 or ny is nt th ay be ed by ng he is a et he ty at ck
or es of ll nt es , e . g . ,
re 3c ws at he an ls ns nd ts an ts ch ll pt or a ht ot in he el .
ng he 23 - 23 al , le ge at ly es he or , ut ow th ss an 3% ce .
nd -
ly , he ty at es he or es , to a el ve ne ut ow 23 .
ll of se re - ed ts re ly nt (
es he or es , nd he ty at
, ne - ed ed t - ts ) .
se ts de ng rt or ur im at id an es ut al re an be ed as ry - ed an ns .
ly ng is he st en he ts of he 23 ne al nd he 23 - 23 al .
in he er se , ts ve ly at ls ly to e; in he er , ey ve ly a us ce nd so ng ay is ot te .
a al ve sm ht te he ll - or - ne ng - ay ed in he er se , le a om - up ve ng sm ht te he te ct en in he er se , ut ly ur op - wn an ch ly ns he ll um of ne - ot al es , om ty to ty .
is a se nd ir nt ut
23 al ce in on
ur nd se dy es or he ce of al es in a ry nt in : ng he cs of ns nd ns .
es ( 23 ) es of al on ed at a ng ll ng to st xt to a ry ll ld be ed as he se of he rs nt on ly if re as ly no ap in ce or me en he nd of he st ls on nd he ng of he ec - nd ls .
he rd on is at le ve ic al ms or ng in ds of al al ns , ch as er of ce , nd se ms re en by le om - up es ch as al nd al ty .
re 3a ws ta om an nt ed in ( 23 ) ch ht ar to rt is ew .
ts ed a er en ng a ng al am .
at ne nd of he am as a ap or , ed at he ng of ch al .
on ch al , a vy , he ap or ck as ed to he am at me on ed nd a ll ew ut .
ts re ld at he ck ng on he am ht ve ed se a ch at ns he or , nd ey re ed to ge ( on a ow ly it as at he ck ng as he se of he or ng .
he ce ng se wo ts re ed ss ls .
re 3a ws at
, nd er me me
es , he ed ty of a al nk es .
on ( 23 ) ed at is nt ld be ed as a an ce th wo ve es : , at no al nk ts .
he ed at he od ld be ct of ng ls in ce nd me ,
, at a al nk ts , nd
he or te
, he or ns if nd ly if he se de
ly be nt .
is el as ee ee rs he ay ts , nd he or ty us ve nd ve ng rs to ng he el ts to he me ge as he ta .
re 3c ws at is el an be ed to t he ad es of he ta , ut it es he er ac - on : in he ta , ut ot he el , he al ge of ll es es rs nd en es as is er ay ct he ce of a ch re ed ry of ce ns - er an is ed by he al ay el .
re 3b ws a al al re ng a ed al el of is on .
he ph is a ic es et ( bn ) , ng es ut he ms or er me .
re re ur ic nt es , ch ed by me an be er en ) , nd ce en it ys en .
re is an ic ce ) or ed (
in he or sm , ch we ke to be i . i . d . , ro - an an
ch me ep ld ( ch we ke to be 23 ut ss of ty ) .
he ck ts he am at ) , ng up a on in he or sm th en -
we me is gy es ng to an se er aw th he ce en he ck nd he or , ng it to he er ow . ) or ty , we me at gy es ly om he ck to he or ( le en he ed of nd ve to he es nd es ed re ) , nd at re is no al ng er me ) .
on ( 23 ) so es an nt ng se es , gh he es no al el .
ds ly on he ce of he se he er he ce , he er he or ld op en .
at ue is er re ts a al nk en he on ch es he or to en
( we an ys et
ed by he ck ng nd he se
, he or ps n; we te is nt as
he od of
( al nk ) nd
of he al gy
ly , we se at al ce is ed on he es er he wo es me ow ic el
( no al nk ) .
he se ce as is ed by me on
) ly or gh on .
we an en ve or he ds , ng ee ee rs , we ke he it as he ic se el , us ve nd ve ng rs , st as in he al ay el .
re 3b ts he ( ed ) or es or he st ng er es .
in st to he al ay el , he bn el es he er on en ce nd me .
, ch er .
at is ,
is ce en he wo ls is al , ot st an nt of he am - er es en .
he al ay el an er ce a er ct .
a er of me rm is ic in ue to ts al rm le in he bn el , se ts ns ly ow an al ay on on th a ay te at is a ar on of .
er al ls th a le rm ld ly be ed to t is ta as ll .
he th of ur el es in ts on of al al ce nd ic al va - on .
se ts st at er ma of ce er is in es ns , it st dy a re ex on en al nd al rs an is as - ed in al om - up ls of al ce , nd ts al rm ay be a al ce of a ch ut it al ry at es es an - us ts of ty .
it is an ng en on er an rs an se is ge ly by ng ut an ne on in el th ir ns , or an ss it in a ed rm to et om - up al es ut he ed to ct ny it al ns .
in wo se es , we ve ed ow le ke id es ut he al re of ir nt .
we ve ed at se es an be ed st as an ns , ng er is es ly ed by op - wn al es .
is rk ed us to ct ve ls of al nt he st te ls to te in th ns , nd in he et ec - or in , he ly ly ve el to te .
ur ls ke a er of ve nd ic ns ut ts of he nt at re ot ly le to an rs .
om a ic nt is ht em de - e; we ld ke to rk ds ls at re he st er of a ri ns .
et we el re is no ng he ed or ul op - wn ts on al ce , in he rm of ve es .
in ng rk , we re ng to dy he ns of se es es .
we ct at an ng ha - ms ar to se ed re ll so be ul in ng ow we re he ts of es : ct al es nd al es .
