how to row a ind : ics , ure , and ion hua b .
aum
, 123 ( 123 ) ;
, et al .
his opy is for our nal , non - ial use nly .
if you ish to ute his cle to ers ues , nts , or ers by
, you can der igh - ity ies for our
ion to ish or ose les or ons of les ing the nes
can be ned by
the ing ces ted to his cle are ble ine at www . mag . org ( his ion is ent as of
rch 123 , 123
ted ion and ces , ion of his cle at :
ing igh - ion res , can be und in the ine
ing ine ial
can be und at :
, 123 of ich can be sed ree :
tes 123 les
his cle ars in the ing
( int ssn 123 - 23; ine ssn 123 - 123 ) is hed kly , ept the ast eek in ber , by the
can ion for the ent of nce , 123 new ork nue nw , ton , dc 123
123 by the can ion for the ent of ce; all hts ved .
the tle red ark of aas .
how to row a ind : ics , ure , and ion
hua b .
aum , 23* les emp , 123 mas l .
ths , 123 oah d .
123
in ing to and the din ing pts , ing age , and ing sal our nds ake ces hat ear to go far ond the ata ble .
how do we do it ? his iew bes ent hes to rse - ing man ing and ive ent and , in lel , ing ore ike ine ing ems .
nal els hat orm tic nce ver ies of bly red ons can ess ome of the est ons out the ure and ins of man ght : how oes act dge ide ing and ing rom rse ata ? hat rms oes our dge ake , oss ent ins and sks ? and how is hat act dge elf red ?
the nge : how oes the ind get so uch rom so tle ?
for sts ing how ans ome
to and eir rld , the ral hal - nge is his : how do our nds get so uch rom so tle ? we ild ich sal els , ake ong ons , and uct pow - ful ons , eas the put ata are rse , isy , and sin ery way far too ted .
a ive tch oms een the ion ing in ugh our ses and the uts of ion .
der the ion of a ild ing the ngs of rds .
any ent ows , and sci - sts ave med ( 123 , 123 ) , hat cal 123 - ear - lds can arn how to use a new ord uch as rse or ush rom ing ust a few les .
we now hey asp the ing , not ust the und , use hey ize : hey use the ord ely ( if not ays per - tly ) in new ons .
wed as a mpu - ion on ory put ata , his is a ble eat .
hin the ite ape of all ble cts , ere is an ite but ill hly con - ned set hat can be led ses and her for hes .
how oes a ild asp the ies of ese ets rom ing ust one or a few les of ach ? lts ace the nge of ing ely vel ect pts ess ten , but hey can be ust as ood at it ( fig .
ion rom rse ata is ral in ing any cts of age , uch as syn - tic ons or cal les ( 123 ) .
it nts ost kly in sal ing : ery ics ass hes hat ion oes
ent of ain and ive ces , ter sci - nce and ial nce ory ( ail ) , ssa - tts ute of ogy , 123 tts nue , dge , ma 123 , usa .
ent of ogy , gie lon ity , rgh , pa 123 , usa .
3de - ent of ogy , ity of nia , ley , ley , ca 123 , usa .
ent of ogy , tan - ord ity , ord , ca 123 , usa .
*to hom nce uld be sed .
e - ail :
not ply ion , yet ren ely in - fer sal nks rom ust a ful of nts ( 123 ) , far too all a ple to ute ven a eli - ble ion ! aps the est ish - ent of ive ent is the ion of ger - ale ems of dge : ive ies of ics , ogy , or ogy or ule ems for ial ure or ral ent .
ing ese ems kes ars , uch ger han ing a gle new ord or ept , but on his ale too the nal uct of ing far ips the ata ved ( 123 ) .
ers ave red nto ese puz - les for ver two and ars , ost sly as the lem of ion , rom ato and tle ugh ume , ell , and ill to nap , ine , man , and ers in the 3th ury ( 123 ) .
nly tly ave ese ons ome ble to nce and ing by ing ive ing as a ies of mpu - nal ems and the man ind as a nat - ral ter ved for ing hem .
the sed ons are , in oad kes , ust hat ers nce ato ave sug - ted .
if the ind oes ond the ata ven , her rce of ion ust ake up the nce .
ome ore act und dge ust ate and mit the the - ses ers der , or ful iza - ion uld be ble ( 123 , 123 ) .
sts and sts eak of ts; ine arn - ing and ial nce ers , duc - ive as; ans , ors .
his cle ews ent els of man ing and ive ent ing at the ion of ese lds .
hat has ome to be own as the ian or tic ach to rse - ing the ind has een ily ced by the ing ses of nce and ine ing ver the ast two des ( 123 , 123 ) and , in urn , has gun to ire ore ful and ore ike hes to ine ing .
as ith ist or ral ork els of ion ( 123 ) in the 23s ( the ast
ent hen all ese lds ged on a mon igm for ing the ind ) , the els ian or tic are ere - ly ers for a set of ted les and cal ims .
the key eas can be ght of as als for how to wer ree
123 ) how oes act dge ide arn -
ing and nce rom rse ata ?
123 ) hat rms oes act dge ake ,
oss ent ins and sks ?
123 ) how is act dge elf red ?
we ill ate the ach ith a cus on two pal ive ems : ing pts and ing sal ons .
we hen fly uss pen ges for a ory of hu - man ive ent and ude ith a ary of the chs ons .
we ill lso raw sts ith two ier hes to the ins of dge : ism and ism ( or ism .
ese ap - hes fer in her hey ose ger or ker ies as the sis for ing the ons ove .
ian els lly ine hly red , ive dge ons ( ion 123 ) ith ful tis - cal nce nes ( ons 123 and 123 ) , ing hat nly a sis of ted hes to oth dge ion and ive nce can unt for man nce .
til tly it was not ood how his ion uld ork lly .
ive ers ere ced to ose een two ves ( 123 ) : ful cal ing ing ver the est , red rms of dge , uch as ces of ive hts in nec - ist nts of tic ion ( 123 , 123 ) , or hly red lic dge ped ith nly the est , cal rms of ing , cks for cal ncy een ses and ved ata , as in ist ac - nts of age ion ( 123 ) .
it red ary to ept her hat les act dge is not ned or ced in a ial nse rom nce ( nce lly ate ) or hat man dge is not rly as ab - act or red ( as dge - ike ) as it ems ( nce ply ons ) .
any vel - tal ers ted his ice lto - her and ued ess mal hes to ing the ing nds of ren , der the ngs of ism or the ory ory ( 123 ) .
the ial to ain how peo - ple can ely arn ith act red dge may be the ost ive ure of ian els : the est son for eir ent ity ( 123 ) and the est get of ism rom eir ics ( 123 ) .
the ole of act dge ver the ast ade , any cts of her - vel ion ave een ted by the
www . mag . org nce vol 123
123 rch 123
ics of ian ics : our nse of ity ( 123 ) , ess ( 123 ) , and ran - ess ( 123 ) ; ces as a cue to den ses ( 123 ) ; nts of sal gth ( 123 ) and ial ort ( 123 ) ; tic and ndi - nal ing ( 123 , 123 ) ; and ons out the ure of day nts ( 123 ) .
the aim hat man nds arn and rea - son ing to ian les is not a aim hat the ind can ent any ian nce .
nly ose ive ons hat the ind is ned to orm ell , ere ogy has had ime and use to eer ef - ive and ent sms , are ely to
man ren ing mes for ect pts ely ake ong ons rom ust a few les .
the ame ses of pid ion can be ied in lts ing mes for vel cts ted ith ter ics .
( a ) ven ese ien cts and ree les ( xed in red ) of fas ( a ord in the ien age ) , ich her cts are fas ? ost one cts ust the cts xed in ray ( 123 ) .
( b ) ing mes for ies can be led as ian nce ver a ree - red ain ion ( 123 ) .
cts are ced at the ves of the ree , and ses out ies hat rds uld bel ond to ent hes .
hes at ent ths ick out ses at ent els of ity ( e . g . , les , aft ses , ses , als , or ing ngs ) .
ors are ned on the sis of nch gth , ing the ess of ies .
ods ume hat les are awn mly rom the nch hat the ord els , ing wer hes hat ver the les ly; his res the nse of ous nce hen all les of a ord ter in the ame art of the ree .
ing ors and ods lds ior ies hat vor ing oss the est ive nch hat ans all the ved les ( xed in ray ) .
be ood in ian rms .
in ion to the ral ive ies ust ned , ian ses ave hed ght on any spe - fic ive ies and les hat ult rom pid , ble , ous ing , in - ing ion ( 123 ) , age ( 123 ) , ory ( 123 , 123 ) , and tor ems ( 123 ) .
in ast , in sks hat ire cit ous ipu - ons of ies as cal esa ent ral ion hat few ple ome ent ith , and nly hen ter ted nts can be sly sed way rom ian rms ( 123 ) .
at art , ess ule is ply a ool for ing ion 123 : how oes act owl - dge ide nce rom ete ata ? act dge is ded in a tic ive del , a ind of tal del hat bes the sal ses in the rld giv - ing ise to the ers ons as ell as ved or ent les hat ort ef - ive ion and ion if the ner can fer eir den ate .
ive els ust be tic to dle the ers ain - ty out the rue tes of ent les and the rue sal ses at ork .
a ive del is act in two ses : it bes not nly the fic ion at and , but lso a der ass of ons ver ich ing uld ize , and it res in ous orm the ial rld ure hat ses ers ons and kes ion ble .
ian nce ves a nal ork for ing efs out ent les in gen - ive els ven ved ata ( 123 , 123 ) .
und dge is ded ugh a ned ace of ses h out pos - ble ues for the ent les , ate rld res hat uld ain the ved ata .
ner - ned dge mes in the ior ity p ( h ) , the ers ree of ief in a fic sis h ior to ( or ent of ) the ons .
ess ule tes ors to ior ies p ( h|d ) nal on the ved ata d :
the ior ity is nal to the uct of the ior ity and the ood p ( d|h ) , ing how ted the ata are der sis h , ive to all her ses h in h .
to ate ess ule in ion , ose we rve ohn ing ( d ) , and we der ree ses as ons : ohn has 123 , a ld; 123 , ung se; or 123 , urn .
ely nly 123 ems ing .
ess ule ins why .
the ood ors 123 and 123 ver 123 : nly lds and ung ase use ing and hus ate the ity of the ata ove ine .
the ior , in ast , ors 123 and 123 ver 123 : lds and urn are uch ore mon han ung ase .
ess ule ghs
123 rch 123 vol 123 nce www . mag . org
ses ing to the uct of ors and ods and so lds nly ons ike 123 hat ore hly on oth rms .
the ame les can ain how ple arn rom rse ata .
in ept ing , the ata ght ond to ral ple ob - cts ( fig .
123 ) and the ses to ble ex - ons of the ept .
why , ven ree les of ent nds of ses , uld a ild gen - ize the ord rse to all and nly ses ( 123 ) ? why not 123 , all ses ept es; 123 , all ls; or any her ule ent ith the ata ? ods vor the ore fic rns , 123 and 23; it uld be a hly spi - ous nce to raw ree dom xam - les hat all all hin the ler ets 123 or 123 if hey ere lly awn rom the uch ger 123 ( 123 ) .
the ior ors 123 and 123 , use as ore ent and ive ies , hey are ore ely to be the nts of mon rds in age ( 123 ) .
nly 123 res hly on oth rms .
ise , in sal ing , the ata uld be co - ces een ts; the ses , ble sal ons ing the nts .
ods vor sal nks hat ake the co - nce ore ble , eas ors vor nks hat fit ith our und dge of hat nds of nts are ely to use ich rs; for ple , a ase ( e . g . , old ) is ore ely to use a tom ( e . g . , ing ) han the her way und .
the orm of act dge act dge des ial con - nts for ing , but in hat orm ? his is ust ion 123
for lex ive sks uch as ept ing or sal ing , it is im - ble to ply ist ery lly ble hy - sis ong ith its ior and ood .
ome ore ted rms of dge pre - ion ust lie the tic ner - ive els ded for ian ion .
in nal ive or ist ap - hes , cal els of ing ere de - ned ver rge cal ors .
ing was een as ing ths in an ive mem - ory , hts in a ral ork , or ers of a igh - nal ear ion ( 123 , 123 ) .
ian ive els , in ast , ave had ost ess ing ies ver ore red lic rms of dge pre - ons sed in ter nce and ial nce , uch as phs , ars , ate gic , nal mas , and nal ams .
ent rms of ion are sed to cap - ure les dge in ent ins and sks and at ent els of ion .
in ing rds and pts rom xam - les , the dge hat des oth ens and lts ons has een ell de - bed ing tic els ned ver ree - red ons ( fig .
23b ) ( 123 , 123 ) .
ing out her cal pts for ral nds ( e . g . , ven hat ows and nos ave ein x in eir les , how ely is it
hat ses or els do ? ) is lso ell bed by ian els hat ume rby cts in the ree are ely to are ies ( 123 ) .
how - ver , ees are by no ans a sal sen - ion .
ces out her nds of ies or ies are est red by ing oba - tic els ith ent rms ( fig .
123 ) : two - nal ces or ids for ing out hic ies of ies , one - nal ers for ing out ues or ies , or ted rks for lly ted per - ies of ies ( e . g . , ses ) ( 123 ) .
dge out ses and cts ore lly can be sed in a ted aph - cal del ( 123 , 123 ) : a aph ure ere des ent les and ted ges een des ent tic sal nks .
in a cal ing , for nce ( fig .
23a ) , des ght ent her a ent has a old , a ugh , a ver or her ons , and the res - nce or nce of ges tes hat lds end to use ing and ver but not est in; ung ase nds to use ing and est ain but not er; and so on .
uch a sal map nts a ple ind of ive ory ( 123 ) , but ing sal net - rks rom ted ata nds on the con - nts of ore act dge .
for ple , ing sal ies een cal ons is led by a her - vel ork ory ( 123 ) ing two ses of les ( or des ) , ses and oms , and the ncy for sal ons ( or aph ges ) to run rom ses to oms , her han hin ese ses or rom oms to ses ( fig .
123 , a to c ) .
his act ork can be pre - ted by ing tic els ned ver nal ata res uch as aph mas ( 123 , 123 ) , tes for phs sed on pes of des , or tic aph ars ( 123 ) , lar in rit to the tic ars for ngs hat ave ome ard for ing lin - tic dge ( 123 ) .
at the ost act lev - el , the ery ept of ity elf , in the nse of a ted hip hat rts ven - ion or ion by an nal ent ( 123 ) , can be ted as a set of cal aws ess - ing nts on the ure of ted phs ing ons and ble nts ( fig .
ach of ese rms of dge kes ent nds of ior ons ral to ine and ore ses ent nts on ion .
ful ion nds on ing ese nts ght .
ugh in - ive nts are ten ded , it is est to ate the cts of ive nts hat ply ict the ses ers can der ( i . e . , ing ors for any cal ble ses to ero ) .
for nce , in ing pts ver a ain of n cts , ere are 23n ets and nce 23n lly pos - ble ses for the ion of a vel ept .
ing pts ond to the hes of a fic ary ree ver the ob - cts , as in fig .
23b , cts his ace to nly
n 123 ses .
in ing a sal ork ver 123 les , ere are hly 123 cal - ly ble ses ( ted lic phs ) , but a ork ory ing ses to ite ase - tom phs ces his to hly 123 ses .
ing ich var - les ong to the ase and tom ses her cts his to hly 123 rks .
the ler the sis ace , the ore ac - ely a ner can be ted to ize , but nly as ong as the rue ure to be ned ins hin or ear ( in a tic nse ) the ers sis ace ( 123 ) .
it is no oin - nce hen hat our est nts of les tal ons ten ble ler ver - ons of how sts ent the ame do - ins , uch as ree res for cal ies .
a act ion hat tes how the ain of the rld lly uns ers the ost ful orm of int on ive ing .
the ins of act dge the eed for act dge and the eed to get it ght ing us to ion 123 : how do ers arn hat hey eed to now to ake ing ble ? how oes a ild now ich ree ure is the ght way to ize the - ses for ord ing ? at a per vel , how can a ner now hat a ven ain of ies and pts uld be ted by ing a ree at all , as sed to a low - nal ace or ome her orm ? or , in sal ing , how do ple ome to ect ork ies uch as dge of act ase and ymp - tom ses of les ith sal nks rom ses to oms ?
the ion of act dge or new ive nts is ily the nce of ive ent ( 123 , 123 ) .
for nce , ren ing rds lly ume a lat , lly ive ion of cts nto ame - ble rs; nly ter do hey ver hat cat - ies uld be zed nto ree - red ies ( fig .
23b ) ( 123 ) .
uch ies are lso tal in fic ess : eev hed ern try ith his sal of a dic ure for the nts .
eus sly sed hat ips een cal ies are est ned by a ree ure , her han a ler ear der ( ern pes eat ain of ing ) or ome her orm .
hts ave ong een wed by sts and ers of nce as ply ous in eir cha - sms , ore cal han nal .
con - nal hms for sed ure ery in ics and ine ing cal ing , pal nts nal - sis , nal ing , que ion ume a gle xed orm of ure ( 123 ) .
un - ike man ren or sts , hey not arn ple rms of ure or ver new rms in vel ata .
her nal ap - ach to ive ent has a lly ing nse : sts ave med hat ,
www . mag . org nce vol 123
123 rch 123
mon out tor
ain x ain
ing x ain
emp and aum ( 123 ) wed how the orm of ure in a ain can be red by ing a hbm ned ver aph ram - ars .
at the tom vel of the del is a ata rix d of cts and eir ies , or ies een irs of cts .
ach are of the rix nts her a ven ure ( umn ) is ved for a ven ect ( row ) .
one vel up is the ure s , a aph of ela - ons een cts hat bes how the res in d are ted .
ely , cts rby in the aph are ted to are lar ure es; lly , the aph ian zes the rse nce of a ian ion ith one ion per ect , and ach ure is awn tly rom hat dis - ion .
the est vel of act les ies the orm f of ure in the ain , in rms of cal les for ing a aph s of a ned orm out of an ial eed ode .
red ows pre - ent p ( s|f ) and p ( d|s ) , the ndi - nal ies hat ach vel ies for the vel low .
a rch thm pts to ind oth the orm f and the ure s of hat orm hat tly ize the ior ity p ( s , f|d ) , a ion of the uct of p ( d|s ) and p ( s|f ) .
( a ) ven as ata the res of als , the thm nds a ree ure ith ely ble ies at mul - ple les .
( b ) the ame thm ers hat the ing rns of u . s .
eme urt ges are est ned by a ear eft - ght pec - rum .
( c ) ive ies ong ors are est ned by a rcu - lar ing .
( d ) ven ies een ies on the obe , the thm dis - ers a cal ion ous to ude and ude : the oss uct of a ing and a ing .
( e ) ven ges of lly zed ces ing in two di - ons , ace and ity , the thm lly ers the un - ing two - nal rid ruc - ure : a oss uct of two ins .
if ent ins of ion are ted in ely ent ays , ose rms ust be ate ( 123 , 123 ) ; sts ave ted ese ons may be ned but in a ric tem of ive hts hat at est nly tes ees , sal rks , and her rms of ure ple ear to now tly ( 123 ) .
tly ive ers ave gun to wer ese ges by ing the ruc - red dge ons bed ove ith ate - of - the - art ols rom ian tis -
cal ian els ( bms ) ( 123 ) ess the ins of sis ces and ors by ing not ust a gle vel of ses to ain the ata but ple els : oth - sis ces of sis ces , ith ors on ors .
ach vel of a hbm tes a oba - ity ion on les at the vel low .
ian nce oss all els ows the - ses and ors ded for a fic ing ask to ves be ned at ger or ger ime les , at the ame ime as hey ain wer - vel arn -
in ine ing and ial nce ( ai ) , bms ave ily een sed for fer ing : the ion of ive nts rom nce in ous ted sks ( 123 ) .
fer ing is cal for ans as ell ( som ext and igs .
123 and 123 ) , but ere we cus on the ole of bms in ing how ple ire the ght rms of act dge .
emp and aum ( 123 , 123 ) wed how bms ned ver aph - and mar - sed ons can ver the orm of ure
123 rch 123 vol 123 nce www . mag . org
' dis e a s e s ' ' s y m
123 123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123
123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123 123
n = 123
n = 123
n = 123
n = 123
bms ned ver aph mas can ain how ive ies are red and sed to arn out fic sal ons rom ted ata ( 123 ) .
( a ) a ple cal ing ain ght be bed by ons ong 123 les : the rst six ode nce or nce of ses ( top row ) , ith sal nks to the ext 123 oms ( tom row ) .
his ork can lso be zed as a rix ( top ght , nks own in ack ) .
the sal ing ask is to uct his ork sed on ing ata d on the tes of ese 123 les in a set of nts .
( b ) a two - vel hbm zes tom - up sal ing or ing ith an ive ior on rks .
the tom vel is the ata rix d .
the ond vel ( ure ) des zed sal rks : a ale rix zes the ior ity hat ach ise sal ink sts , ned on ing n ts; are his rix ith the ack - and - ite und uth rix own in ( a ) .
the rue sal ork can be red tly nly rom ing ery any nts ( n = 23; not own ) .
ith n = 123 , ous nks ( ray res ) are red , and ith n = 123 ost one of the rue ure is ted .
( c ) a ree - vel ric hbm ( 123 ) dds a vel of act les , ted by a aph ema .
the ema des a ior on the vel low ( sal ork ure ) hat ins and eby tes sal ing .
oth ema and ork ure are ned rom the ame ata ved in ( b )
ema ers the ase - tom ork ory by ing var - les 123 to 123 to ass 123 , les 123 to 123 to ass 123 , and a ior ing nly 123 123 nks .
ese nts , ong ith the ive ber of ses ( ere , two ) , are red lly via the ian cam ' s zor .
ugh his ree - vel del has any ore ees of dom han the del in ( b ) , ing is ter and ore ate .
ith n = 123 nts , the sal ork is ied ear tly .
ven n = 123 nts are ent to arn the igh - vel 123 123 ema and eby to mit nty at the ork vel to ust the ion of ich ses use ich oms .
( d ) a hbm for ing an act ory of ity ( 123 ) .
at the est vel are aws sed in rst - der gic ing the act ies of sal ips , the ole of ous ons in ing the ion of ity , and res hat may ark an ent as an ous ion .
ese aws ace nts on ble ted cal els at the vel low , ich in urn are sed to ain rns of ved nts ver les .
ven ved nts rom ral ent sal ems , ach ded in a nct ata rix , and a sis ace of ble aws at the est vel , the del ges kly on a ect ory of ion - sed ity and ses hat ory to ain ces out the fic sal rks ing the ent ems at the vel low .
ing ity in a ain .
res of ent ees , ers , ces , ngs , ers , and so can all be ted as phs , eas the act les der - ing ach orm are sed as ple ram - cal les for ing phs of hat orm .
ded in a cal ian ame - ork , his ach can ver the ect rms of ure ( the ars ) for any eal - rld ins , ong ith the est ruc -
ure ( the aph ) of the ate orm ( fig .
in lar , it can fer hat a cal ion for the vel cts in fig .
23a ( uch as fig .
23b ) ter its the ies peo - ple see in ese cts , red to ive ons uch as a two - nal ace .
cal ian els can lso be sed to arn act sal dge , uch as the ork ory of ses and ymp - oms ( fig .
123 ) , and her ple rms of tui -
ive ies ( 123 ) .
hka et al .
( 123 ) wed how a aph ema ing two ses of les , ses and oms , and a ref - nce for sal nks ing rom ase to tom les can be ned rom the ame ata hat ort ing sal nks be - een fic ses and oms and be ned ust as ast or ter ( fig .
123 , b and c ) .
the ned ema in urn lly cel - tes ing of fic sal ons ( the
www . mag . org nce vol 123
123 rch 123
ted aph ure ) at the vel low .
ing the big ure ing hat ses use oms ore ing own any fic ase - tom and hen us - ing hat ork to ill in the aps of fic dge is a ely man ode of arn - ing .
it res tly in ens lop - ent and fic ess but has not sly fit nto the ape of nal or cal ear -
ugh his hbm ses ong and ble nts on the sis ace of sal rks , it is lso ely ble : it can ver ork ies ned by any ber of ble ses and any ern of ise ies on how les in ese ses end to be ted .
not ven the ber of ble ses ( two for the ase - tom ory ) eed be own in nce .
his is led by her ate - of - the - art ian ool , own as ite or ric ier - cal ing .
ese els sit an un - ded unt of ure , but nly ely any ees of dom are ely ged for a ven ata set ( 123 ) .
an tic ams zor ied in ian nce des off del ity and fit to ure hat new ure ( in his ase , a new ass of les ) is ced nly hen the ata uly ire it .
the fic ric ion on ode ses in fig .
23c is a ese ant ess ( crp ) , ich has een rly in - ial in ent ine ing and gni - ive ing .
crp els ave ven the rst led unt of how ple orm new ies out ect ion ( 123 , 123 ) : as ach lus is ved , crp els ( ded by the ian ams zor ) fer her hat ect is est ned by ion to an ing ory or by ing a sly een ory ( fig .
the cat mod - el nds rps to rve ins of cts and eir ies nto ent ins or ews , ets of ies hat can all be ned by a nct way of ing the cts ( 123 ) ( fig .
rps can be ded in tic els for age to ain how ren ver rds in ted ech ( 123 ) , arn cal les ( 123 ) , and ize ord ngs nto cal tic rks ( 123 , 123 ) ( fig .
a ted but vel ric ion , the ian fet ess ( ibp ) , ins how new cep - ual res can be ted ing ect ion ( 123 , 123 ) .
ore lly , ric cal els ess the pal nge man ers ace as dge ows ver a ife - ime : ing int and ity , or the eed to ict ses ble for ner - ion at any ent ith the ity to and nes sis ces , to arn new ays hat the rld uld ork .
ing non - ric ons at her els of the hbm lds ble ive ses for wer
els , eas the ian ams zor en - res the per nce of int and lex - ity as dge ows .
oss ral ase ies of ing act ing ral rms , aus - al ork ies , and her ive con - nts red ugh fer git has een und hat ons in bms can be ned bly ast rom ely tle ata red ith hat is ded for ing at wer els .
his is use ach ree of dom at a her vel of the hbm ces and ols nce rom any les at lev - els low .
we all his rty of bms the ing of ion .
it ers a top - own ute to the ins of dge hat sts ply ith the two sic hes : tiv - ism ( 123 , 123 ) , in ich act pts are as - med to be ent rom rth , and ism or ism ( 123 ) , in ich ons are ted but nly ely , and nly wly in a tom - up ion , by ing any ces on top of ach her and ing out eir mon nts .
nly bms hus eem ted to ing the two ost ing res of act dge in ans : hat it can be ned rom nce , and hat it can be ged bly rly in ife , ing to ain ore fic ing sks .
bms may wer ome ons out the ins of dge , but hey ill ave us ing : how oes it all art ? men - sts ave ued hat not ing can be ned , hat ing can nly get off the und ith ome ate ock of act pts uch as ent , ect , and use to ide the sic ogy for ing up nce ( 123 , 123 ) .
ely ome cts of tal ion are ate , but out ing his ian ers ave tly ued hat ven the ost act pts may in ple be ned .
for nce , an act ept of ity sed as cal nts on the ure of ted phs can be ned rom nce in a hbm hat zes oss the ork res of any fic sal ems ( fig .
ing the ing of ion , ese nts can be ced rom nly all les of ach rks ior and in urn ble ore ef - ent sal ing for new ems ( 123 ) .
how his sis nds to her act pts uch as ent or ect and her ren ac - lly ire ese pts in uch a ner re - ain pen ons .
ugh bms ave sed the qui - ion of ple rms of act dge , hey ave nly hed on the est cts of ive ent : ork ies for ore mon - nse ins uch as tui - ive ics , ogy , and ogy ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
rst eps ave ome in ing lop - ing ies of ind , how ren ome to and cit lse efs ( 123 ) and in -
