abstracthuman perception and memory are often ex - plained as optimal statistical inferences that are informed by accurate prior probabilities .
in contrast , cognitive judg - ments are usually viewed as following error - prone heuris - tics that are insensitive to priors .
we examined the optimality of human cognition in a more realistic context than typical laboratory studies , asking people to make predictions about the duration or extent of everyday phenomena such as human life spans and the box - ofce take of movies .
our results suggest that everyday cognitive judgments follow the same optimal statistical principles as perception and memory , and reveal a close correspondence between peo - ples implicit probabilistic models and the statistics of the
if you were assessing the prospects of a 123 - year - old man , how much longer would you expect him to live ? if you were an ex - ecutive evaluating the performance of a movie that had made $123 million at the box ofce so far , what would you estimate for its total gross ? everyday life routinely poses such challenges of prediction , situations in which the true answer cannot be de - termined on the basis of the limited data available , yet common sense suggests at least a reasonable guess .
analogous inductive identifying the three - dimensional structure underlying a two - dimensional image ( freeman , 123; knill & richards , 123 ) or judging when a particular fact is likely to be needed in the future ( anderson , 123; anderson & milson , 123 ) arise in many domains of human psychology .
accounts of human perception and memory suggest that these systems effectively approximate optimal statistical inference , correctly combining new data with an accurate probabilistic model of the environment ( anderson , 123; anderson & milson , 123; anderson & schooler , 123; freeman , 123; geisler ,
address correspondence to thomas grifths , department of cogni - tive and linguistic sciences , brown university , box 123 , provi - dence , ri 123 , e - mail : tom_grifths@brown . edu .
perry , super , & gallogly , 123; huber , shiffrin , lyle , & ruys , 123; knill & richards , 123; kording & wolpert , 123; shiffrin & steyvers , 123; simoncelli & olshausen , 123; weiss , simoncelli , & adelson , 123 ) .
in contrastperhaps as a result of the great attention garnered by the work of kahneman , tversky , and their colleagues ( e . g . , kahneman , slovic , & tversky , 123; tversky & kahneman , 123 ) cognitive judg - ments under uncertainty are often characterized as the result of error - prone heuristics that are insensitive to prior probabilities .
this view of cognition , based on laboratory studies , appears starkly at odds with the near - optimality of other human capac - ities , and with peoples ability to make smart predictions from sparse data in the real world .
to evaluate how cognitive judgments compare with optimal statistical inferences in real - world settings , we asked people to predict the duration or extent of everyday phenomena such as human life spans and the gross of movies .
we varied the phe - nomena that were described and the amount of data available , and we compared the predictions of human participants with those of an optimal bayesian model , described in detail in the appendix .
here , we illustrate the principles behind this bayes - ian analysis by taking the example of trying to predict the total life span of a man we have just met , on the basis of the mans current age .
if ttotal indicates the total amount of time the man will live and t indicates his current age , the task is to estimate ttotal from t .
the bayesian predictor computes a probability distribution over ttotal given t , by applying bayess rule :
pttotaljt / ptjttotalpttotal
the probability assigned to a particular value of ttotal given t is proportional to the product of two factors : the likelihood p ( t|ttotal ) and the prior probability p ( ttotal ) .
the likelihood is the probability of rst encountering a man at age t given that his total life span is ttotal .
assuming for simplicity that we are equally likely to meet a man at any point in his life , this probability is uniform , p ( t|ttotal ) 123 123 / ttotal , for all possible values of t between 123 and ttotal ( and 123 for values outside that range ) .
this assumption of uniform random sampling is analo -
volume 123number 123
copyright r 123 association for psychological science
gous to the copernican anthropic principle in bayesian cos - mology ( buch , 123; caves , 123; garrett & coles , 123; gott , 123 , 123; ledford , marriott , & crowder , 123 ) and the ge - neric - view principle in bayesian models of visual perception ( freeman , 123; knill & richards , 123 ) .
the prior probability p ( ttotal ) reects our general expectations about the relevant class of eventsin this case , about how likely it is that a mans life span will be ttotal .
analysis of actuarial data shows that the distribution of life spans in our society is ( ignoring infant mor - tality ) approximately gaussiannormally distributedwith a mean , m , of about 123 years and a standard deviation , s , of about
combining the prior with the likelihood according to equation 123 yields a probability distribution p ( ttotal|t ) over all possible total life spans ttotal for a man encountered at age t .
a good guess for ttotal is the median of this distributionthat is , the point at which it is equally likely that the true life span is longer or shorter .
taking the median of p ( ttotal|t ) denes a bayesian prediction function , specifying a predicted value of ttotal for each observed value of t .
prediction functions for events with gaussian priors are nonlinear : for values of t much less than the mean of the prior , the predicted value of ttotal is approximately the mean; once t approaches the mean , the predicted value of ttotal in - creases slowly , converging to t as t increases but always re - maining slightly higher , as shown in figure 123
although its mathematical form is complex , this prediction function makes intuitive sense for human life spans : a predicted life span of about 123 years would be reasonable for a man encountered at age 123 , 123 , or 123; if we met a man at age 123 , we might be inclined to give him several more years at least; but if we met someone at age 123 , we probably would not expect him to live much longer .
this approach to prediction is quite general , applicable to any problem that requires estimating the upper limit of a duration , extent , or other numerical quantity given a sample drawn from that interval ( buch , 123; caves , 123; garrett & coles , 123; gott , 123 , 123; jaynes , 123; jeffreys , 123; ledford et al . , 123; leslie , 123; maddox , 123; shepard , 123; tenenbaum & grifths , 123 ) .
however , different priors will be appropriate for different kinds of phenomena , and the prediction function will vary substantially as a result .
for example , imagine trying to predict the total box - ofce gross of a movie given its take so far .
the total gross of movies follows a power - law distribution , with p ( ttotal ) / ttotal g for some g > 123 this distribution has a highly non - gaussian shape ( see fig .
123 ) , with most movies taking in only modest amounts , but occasional blockbusters making huge amounts of money .
in the appendix , we show that for power - law priors , the bayesian prediction function picks a value for ttotal that is a multiple of the observed sample t .
the exact multiple depends on the parameter g .
for the particular power law that best ts the actual distribution of movie grosses , an optimal
123when g > 123 , a power - law distribution is often referred to in statistics and
economics as a pareto distribution .
bayesian prediction functions and their associated prior distri - butions .
the three columns represent qualitatively different statistical models appropriate for different kinds of events .
the top row of plots shows three parametric families of prior distributions for the total dura - tion or extent , ttotal , that could describe events in a particular class .
lines of different styles represent different parameter values ( e . g . , different mean durations ) within each family .
the bottom row of plots shows the optimal predictions for ttotal as a function of t , the observed duration or extent of an event so far , assuming the prior distributions shown in the top panel .
for gaussian priors ( left column ) , the prediction function always has a slope less than 123 and an intercept near the mean m : predictions are never much smaller than the mean of the prior distribution , nor much larger than the observed duration .
power - law priors ( middle column ) result in linear prediction functions with variable slope and a zero inter - cept .
erlang priors ( right column ) yield a linear prediction function that always has a slope equal to 123 and a nonzero intercept .
bayesian observer would estimate the total gross to be approx - imately 123% greater than the current gross : thus , if we observe a movie has made $123 million to date , we should guess a total gross of around $123 million; if we observe a current gross of only $123 million , we should guess about $123 million for the total .
although such constant - multiple prediction rules are optimal for event classes that follow power - law priors , they are clearly inappropriate for predicting life spans or other kinds of events with gaussian priors .
for instance , upon meeting a 123 - year - old girl and her 123 - year - old grandfather , we would never predict that the girl will live a total of 123 years ( 123 123 ) and the grandfather will live to be 123 ( 123 123 ) .
other classes of priors , such as the exponential - tailed erlang distribution , p ( ttotal ) / ttotalexp ( ttotal / b ) for b > 123 , 123 are also associated with distinctive optimal prediction functions .
for the erlang distribution , the
123the erlang distribution is a special case of the gamma distribution .
the k123exp ( ttotal / b ) , where k > 123 and b > 123 gamma distribution is p ( ttotal ) / ttotal are real numbers .
the erlang distribution assumes that k is an integer .
following shepard ( 123 ) , we use a one - parameter erlang distribution , xing k at 123
volume 123number 123
thomas l .
grifths and joshua b .
tenenbaum
sources of data for estimating prior distributions
source ( number of data points )
movie run times u . s .
representatives terms cake baking times
http : / / www . demog . berkeley . edu / wilmoth / mortality / states . html ( complete life table ) http : / / www . imdb . com / charts / usboxarchive / ( 123 top - 123 movies from 123 through 123 ) http : / / www . bioguide . congress . gov / ( 123 , 123 members since 123 )
data were collected from these web sites between july and december 123
best guess of ttotal is simply t plus a constant determined by the parameter b , as shown in the appendix and illustrated in
approximately erlang .
the experiment examined how well peoples predictions corresponded to optimal statistical infer - ence in these different settings .
our experiment compared these ideal bayesian analyses with the judgments of a large sample of human participants , exam - ining whether peoples predictions were sensitive to the distri - butions of different quantities that arise in everyday contexts .
we used publicly available data to identify the true prior dis - tributions for several classes of events ( the sources of these data are given in table 123 ) .
for example , as shown in figure 123 , human life spans and the run time of movies are approximately gaussian , the gross of movies and the length of poems are ap - proximately power - law distributed , and the distributions of the number of years in ofce for members of the u . s .
house of representatives and of the length of the reigns of pharaohs are
participants and procedure participants were tested in two groups , with each group making predictions about ve different phenomena .
one group of 123 undergraduates made predictions about movie grosses , poem lengths , life spans , reigns of pharaohs , and lengths of marriages .
a second group of 123 undergraduates made predictions about movie run times , terms of u . s .
representatives , baking times for cakes , waiting times , and lengths of marriages .
the surveys were
peoples predictions for various everyday phenomena .
the top row of plots shows the empirical distributions of the total duration or extent , ttotal , for each of these phenomena .
the rst two distributions are approximately gaussian , the third and fourth are approximately power - law , and the fth and sixth are approximately erlang .
the bottom row shows participants predicted values of ttotal for a single observed sample t of a duration or extent for each phenomenon .
black dots show the participants median predictions of ttotal .
error bars indicate 123% condence intervals ( estimated by a 123 , 123 - sample bootstrap ) .
solid lines show the optimal bayesian predictions based on the empirical prior distributions shown above .
dashed lines show pre - dictions made by estimating a subjective prior , for the pharaohs and waiting - times stimuli , as explained in the main text .
dotted lines show predictions based on a xed uninformative prior ( gott , 123 ) .
volume 123number 123
included in a booklet that participants completed for a set of
terms of u . s .
representatives : if you heard a member of the house of representatives had served for 123 years , what would you predict his total term in the house would be ?
each participant made a prediction about one instance from each of the ve different classes seen by his or her group .
each prediction was based on one of ve possible values of t , varied randomly between subjects .
these values were $123 , $123 , $123 , $123 , and $123 million for movie grosses; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 lines for poem lengths; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 years for life spans; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 years for reigns of pharaohs; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 years for lengths of marriages; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 min for movie run times; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 years for terms of u . s .
repre - sentatives; 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 min for baking times for cakes; and 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 min for waiting times .
in each case , participants read several sentences establishing context and then were asked to predict ttotal given t .
the questions were presented in survey format .
each survey
began as follows :
each of the questions below asks you to predict somethingeither a duration or a quantitybased on a single piece of information .
please read each question and write your prediction on the line below it .
were interested in your intuitions , so please dont make complicated calculationsjust tell us what you think !
each question was then introduced with a couple of sentences
to provide a context .
following are sample questions :
movie grosses : imagine you hear about a movie that has taken in 123 million dollars at the box ofce , but dont know how long it has been running .
what would you predict for the total amount of box ofce intake for that movie ?
poem lengths : if your friend read you her favorite line of poetry , and told you it was line 123 of a poem , what would you predict for the total length of the poem ?
life spans : insurance agencies employ actuaries to make predic - tions about peoples life spansthe age at which they will die based upon demographic information .
if you were assessing an insurance case for an 123 - year - old man , what would you predict for his life span ?
reigns of pharaohs : if you opened a book about the history of ancient egypt to a page listing the reigns of the pharaohs , and noticed that at 123 bc a particular pharaoh had been ruling for 123 years , what would you predict for the total duration of his reign ?
lengths of marriages : a friend is telling you about an acquaintance whom you do not know .
in passing , he happens to mention that this person has been married for 123 years .
how long do you think this persons marriage will last ?
movie run times : if you made a surprise visit to a friend , and found that they had been watching a movie for 123 minutes , what would you predict for the length of the movie ?
baking times for cakes : imagine you are in somebodys kitchen and notice that a cake is in the oven .
the timer shows that it has been baking for 123 minutes .
what would you predict for the total amount of time the cake needs to bake ?
waiting times : if you were calling a telephone box ofce to book tickets and had been on hold for 123 minutes , what would you predict for the total time you would be on hold ?
we rst ltered out responses that could not be analyzed or that indicated a misunderstanding of the task , removing predictions that did not correspond to numerical values or were less than ttotal .
only a small minority of responses failed to meet these criteria , except in the case of the marriage predictions .
the total number of responses analyzed was 123 for movie grosses , 123 for poem lengths , 123 for life spans , 123 for reigns of pharaohs , 123 for movie run times , 123 for terms of u . s .
representatives , 123 for baking times for cakes , and 123 for waiting times .
the re - sponses for the marriage stimuli were problematic because the majority of participants ( 123% ) indicated that marriages last forever .
this accurately reects the proportion of marriages that do not end in divorce ( kreider & fields , 123 ) , but pre - vented us from analyzing the data using methods based on median values .
we therefore did not analyze responses for the marriage stimuli further .
peoples judgments for life spans , movie run times , movie grosses , poem lengths , and terms of u . s .
representatives were indistinguishable from optimal bayesian predictions based on the empirical prior distributions , as shown in figure 123
peoples prediction functions took on very different shapes in domains characterized by gaussian , power - law , and erlang priors , just as expected under the ideal bayesian analysis .
notably , the model predictions shown in figure 123 have no free parameters tuned specifically to t the human data , but are simply the optimal functions prescribed by bayesian inference given the relevant world statistics .
these results are inconsistent with claims that cognitive judgments are based on non - bayesian heuristics that are insensitive to priors ( kahneman et al . , 123; tversky & kahneman , 123 ) .
the results are also inconsistent with simpler bayesian prediction models that adopt a single uninformative prior , p ( ttotal ) / 123 / ttotal , regardless of the phenomenon to be predicted ( gott , 123 , 123; jaynes , 123; jeffreys , 123; ledford et al . , 123 ) .
examining the results for the remaining stimulireigns of pharaohs , baking times for cakes , and waiting timesprovides an opportunity to learn about the limits of peoples capacity for prediction .
as shown in figure 123 , peoples predictions about the
volume 123number 123
thomas l .
grifths and joshua b .
tenenbaum
reigns of pharaohs had a form consistent with the appropriate prior ( an erlang distribution ) , but were slightly too high .
we established peoples subjective priors for the reigns of pharaohs in a follow - up experiment , asking 123 undergraduates to state the typical duration of a pharaohs reign .
the median response was 123 years , which corresponds to an erlang prior on ttotal with parameter b equal to 123 , as opposed to the true value of ap - proximately 123 .
using this subjective erlang prior produces a close correspondence to the human judgments .
the pharaohs stimuli provide an instance of a situation in which people make inaccurate predictions : when they know the appropriate form for the prior , but not the details of its param - eters .
in contrast , responses to the cakes stimuli reveal that people can make accurate predictions even in contexts in which priors lack a simple form .
the duration a cake should spend in the oven is a quantity that follows a rather irregular distribution , as shown in figure 123
however , peoples judgments were still close to the ideal bayesian predictions , despite the complex form of the empirical prior distribution .
these results suggest that peoples predictions can also be used to identify the prior beliefs that inform them .
the waiting - times stimuli provide an opportunity to explore this possibility .
the true distribution of waiting times in queues is currently a controversial question in operations research .
traditional models , based on the poisson process , assume that waiting times follow a distribution with exponential tails ( e . g . , hillier & lie - berman , 123 ) .
however , several recent analyses suggest that in many cases , waiting times may be better approximated by a power - law distribution ( barabasi , 123 , provides a summary and explanation of these ndings ) .
hence , it is not clear what the objective distribution of durations should be for these stimuli .
rather than using objective statistics on real - world durations to assess the optimality of peoples judgments , as we did for the other stimulus classes , we used peoples judgments for these stimuli to assess which distributional form they assumed the phenomenon would follow .
we t prediction functions for gaussian , power - law , and erlang distributions to the behavioral data , attempting to minimize the sum of the squared differences between the median human judgments and the predicted values of ttotal .
the power - law prior with g 123 123 provided the best t to the human judgments , producing the predictions shown in figure 123
assuming that peoples predictions are near - optimal with respect to the true distribution of durations , these results are qualitatively consistent with recent power - law models for waiting - time distributions ( barabasi , 123 ) .
the results of our experiment reveal a far closer correspondence between optimal statistical inference and everyday cognition than suggested by previous research .
peoples judgments were close to the optimal predictions produced by our bayesian model
across a wide range of settings .
these judgments also served as a guide to peoples implicit beliefs about the distributions of everyday quantities , and revealed that these beliefs are sur - prisingly consistent with the statistics of the world .
this nding parallels formal analyses of perception and memory , in which accurate probabilistic models of the environment play a key role in the solution of inductive problems ( anderson , 123; ander - son & milson , 123; anderson & schooler , 123; freeman , 123; geisler et al . , 123; huber et al . , 123; knill & richards , 123; kording & wolpert , 123; shiffrin & steyvers , 123; simoncelli & olshausen , 123; weiss et al . , 123 ) .
although peoples predictions about everyday events were on the whole extremely accurate , the cases in which their predic - tions deviated from optimality may help to shed light on the implicit assumptions and strategies that make these intuitive judgments so successful most of the time in the real world .
one interesting hypothesis concerning such strategies is suggested by the pattern of peoples errors in predicting the reigns of pharaohs .
both the magnitude of errors and the variance in judgments across participants were substantially greater for this question than for our other questions .
this should not be sur - prising , as most participants probably had far less direct expe - rience with the reigns of pharaohs than with the other kinds of scenarios we presented .
despite this lack of direct experience , peoples predictions were not completely off the mark : their judgments were consistent with having implicit knowledge of the correct form of the underlying distribution but making in - correct assumptions about how this form should be parame - terized ( i . e . , its mean value ) .
the predictions for the reigns of pharaohs suggest a general strategy people might employ to make predictions about unfa - miliar kinds of events , which is surely an important prediction problem faced in everyday life .
given an unfamiliar prediction task , people might be able to identify the appropriate form of the distribution by making an analogy to more familiar phenomena in the same broad class , even if they do not have sufcient direct experience to set the parameters of that distribution accurately .
for instance , participants might have been familiar with the length of time that various modern monarchs have spent in their positions , as well as with the causes ( e . g . , succession , death ) responsible for curtailing those times , and it is not unreasonable to think that analogous mechanisms could have governed the durations of pharaohs reigns in ancient egypt .
yet most people might not be aware of ( or might not remember ) just how short life spans typically were in ancient egypt compared with modern expectations , even if they know life spans were somewhat shorter .
if participants predicted the reign of the pharaoh by drawing an analogy to modern monarchs and adjusting the mean reign duration downward by some uncertain but insufcient factor , that would be entirely consistent with the pattern of errors we observed .
such a strategy of prediction by analogy could be an adaptive way of making judgments that would otherwise lie beyond peoples limited base of knowledge and experience .
volume 123number 123
the nding of optimal statistical inference in an important class of cognitive judgments resonates with a number of recent suggestions that bayesian statistics may provide a general framework for analyzing human inductive inferences .
bayesian models require making the assumptions of a learner explicit .
by exploring the implications of different assumptions , it becomes possible to explain many of the interesting and apparently in - explicable aspects of human reasoning ( e . g . , mckenzie , 123 ) .
the ability to combine accurate background knowledge about the world with rational statistical updating is critical in many aspects of higher - level cognition .
bayesian models have been proposed for learning words and concepts ( tenenbaum , 123 ) , forming generalizations about the properties of objects ( an - derson , 123; shepard , 123; tenenbaum & grifths , 123 ) , and discovering logical or causal relations ( anderson , 123; grifths & tenenbaum , 123; oaksford & chater , 123 ) .
how - ever , these modeling efforts have not typically attempted to establish optimality in real - world environments .
our results demonstrate that , at least for a range of everyday prediction tasks , people effectively adopt prior distributions that are ac - curately calibrated to the statistics of relevant events in the world .
assessing the scope and depth of the correspondence between probabilities in the mind and those in the world pre - sents a fundamental challenge for future work .
acknowledgmentswe thank liz baraff and onny chatterjee for their assistance in running the experiments , and mira bernstein , daniel casasanto , nick chater , david danks , peter dayan , reid hastie , konrad kording , tania lombrozo , rebecca saxe , marty tenenbaum , and an anonymous reviewer for com - ments on the manuscript .
the second author was supported by the paul e .
newton chair .
