the exp inc in the ava of onl rev and rec mak sen cla an int top in aca and ind res .
re - vie can spa so man die dom tha it is dic to gat ann tra - ing dat for all of the .
hen , thi pa - per stu the pro of dom ada - tio for sen cla , her a sys - tem is tra on lab rev fro one sou dom but is mea to be dep on ano .
we pro a dee lea ap - pro whi lea to ext a mea rep for eac rev in an uns - vis fas .
sen cla tra wit thi hig - lev cle out sta - of - the - art met on a ben com of rev of 123 typ of ama pro .
fur , thi met sca wel and all us to suc - ful per dom ada on a lar ind - str dat of 123 dom .
wit the ris of soc med suc as blo and so - cia net , rev , rat and rec are rap pro bei abl to aut lte the is a cur key cha for bus loo to sel the war and ide new mar opp .
thi has cre a sur of res in sen cla ( or sen ana ) , whi aim to det the jud of a wri wit re -
app in pro of the 123 th int con - fer on mac lea , bel , wa , usa , 123
cop 123 by the aut ( s ) / own ( s ) .
spe to a giv top bas on a giv tex com - men .
sen ana is now a mat mac lea res top , as ill wit thi rev ( pan and lee , 123 ) .
app to man die - ent dom hav bee pre , ran fro mov rev ( pan et al . , 123 ) and con oor de - bat ( tho et al . , 123 ) to pro rec - tio ( sny and bar , 123 bli et al . , 123 ) .
thi lar var of dat sou mak it dic and cos to des a rob sen cla .
ind , rev dea wit var kin of pro or ser for whi voc are die .
for ins , con - sid the sim cas of tra a sys ana rev abo onl two sor of pro : kit ap - pli and dvd .
one set of rev wou con - tai adj suc as mal , rel or stu , and the oth thr , hor or hi - lar , etc .
the , dat dis are die - ent acr dom .
one sol cou be to lea a die sys for eac dom .
how , thi wou imp a hug cos to ann tra dat for a lar num of dom and pre us fro ex - plo the inf sha acr dom .
an alt str , eva her , con in lea - ing a sin sys fro the set of dom for whi lab and unl dat are ava and the ap - ply it to any tar dom ( lab or unl ) .
thi onl mak sen if the sys is abl to dis int abs tha are sha and mea - ing acr dom .
thi pro of tra and tes mod on die dis is kno as dom ada ( dau iii and mar , 123 ) .
in thi pap , we pro a dee lea app for the pro of dom ada of sen cla .
the pro new are of dee lea - ing has eme rec see ( ben , 123 ) for a re - vie .
dee lea is bas on alg for dis - cov int rep bui in a
dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
hie man .
dee lea rel on the dis - cov tha uns lea cou be use to set eac lev of a hie of fea , one lev at a tim , bas on the fea dis at the pre lev .
the fea hav suc bee use to ini dee neu net ( hin and sal - din , 123 hin et al . , 123 ben et al . , 123 ) .
ima a pro gra mod in whi we in - tro lat var whi cor to the tru exp fac of the obs dat .
it is lik tha ans que and lea dep in the spa of the lat var wou be eas tha ans que abo the raw inp .
a sim lin - ear cla or non - par pre tra fro as few as one or a few exa mig be abl to do the job .
the key to ach thi is lea bet rep - res , mos fro unl dat : how thi is don is wha die dee lea alg .
the dee lea sys we int in sec 123 is des to use unl dat to ext hig - lev fea fro rev .
we sho in sec 123 tha sen - men cla tra wit the lea fea can : ( i ) sur sta - of - the - art per on a ben - mar of 123 kin of pro and ( ii ) suc per - for dom ada on a lar - sca dat set of 123 dom , bea all of the bas we tri .
dom ada
dom ada con the set in whi the tra and tes dat are sam fro die dis .
ass we hav two set of dat : a sou dom s pro lab tra ins and a tar dom t pro ins on whi the cla is mea to be dep .
we do not mak the ass tha the are dra fro the sam dis , but rat tha s is dra fro a dis - but ps and t fro a dis pt .
the lea pro con in ndi a fun rea a goo tra fro s to t i . e .
it is tra on dat dra fro ps and gen wel on dat dra fro pt .
dee lea alg lea int con - cep bet raw inp and tar .
our int for usi it in thi set is tha the int con cou yie bet tra acr dom .
sup for exa tha the int con ind cap thi lik pro qua , pro pri , cus ser , etc .
som of the con are gen eno to mak sen acr a wid ran of dom ( cor to pro or ser , in the cas of sen ana ) .
bec the sam wor or tup of wor may be use acr dom to ind the pre of the hig - lev con ,
it sho be pos to dis the .
fur , bec dee lea exp uns lea to dis the con , one can exp the lar amo of unl dat acr all dom to lea the int rep .
her , as in man oth dee lea app , we do not eng wha the int con sho be , but in - ste use gen lea alg to dis the .
rel wor
lea set rel to dom ada hav bee pro bef and pub und die nam .
dau iii and mar ( 123 ) for the pro and pro an app bas on a mix - tur mod .
a gen way to add dom ada - tio is thr ins wei , in whi ins - dep wei are add to the los fun ( jia and zha , 123 ) .
ano sol to dom ada can be to tra the dat rep - tio of the sou and tar dom so tha the pre the sam joi dis of obs and lab .
ben - dav et al .
( 123 ) for ana the eec of rep cha for dom ada whi bli et al .
( 123 ) pro the str cor - res lea ( scl ) alg tha mak use of the unl dat fro the tar dom to nd a low - ran joi rep of the dat .
fin , dom ada can be sim tre as a sta sem - sup pro by ign the do - mai die and con the sou ins as lab dat and the tar one as unl dat ( dai et al . , 123 ) .
in tha cas , the fra is ver clo to tha of sel - tau lea ( rai et al . , 123 ) , in whi one lea fro lab exa of som cat as wel as unl exa fro a lar set of cat .
the app of rai et al .
( 123 ) rel cru on the uns lea of a rep , lik the app pro her .
app to sen cla
sen ana and dom ada are clo rel in the lit , and man wor hav stu dom ada exc for sen ana .
amo tho , a lar maj pro exp per on the ben mad of rev of ama - zon pro gat by bli et al .
( 123 ) .
ama dat the dat set pro mor tha 123 , 123 rev reg 123 die pro typ and for whi rev are lab as eit pos
123 dat are ava fro htt : / / www . cs . jhu . edu / ~ mdr / dat / sen / .
it is act com of 123 dom but we rem 123 of the whi wer ver sma ( les tha 123 ins in tot ) .
dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
tab 123
ama dat sta .
thi tab dep the num of tra , tes and unl exa for eac dom , as wel as the por of neg tra exa for bot ver of the dat set .
tra siz tes siz unl .
siz % neg
com ( lar - sca ) dat set
or neg .
as det in tab 123 ( top ) , the is a vas dis bet dom in the tot num of ins and in the pro of neg exa .
sin thi dat set is het , hea unb - anc and lar - sca , a sma and mor con ver has bee rel .
the red dat set con - tai 123 die dom : boo , dvd , ele and kit app .
the are 123 pos and 123 neg ins for eac dom , as wel as a few tho unl exa .
the pos and neg exa are als exa bal ( see the bot sec of tab 123 for det ) .
thi lat ver - sio is use as a ben in the lit .
to the bes of our kno , thi pap wil con the rst pub res on the lar ama dat .
in the ori pap reg - ing the sma 123 - dom ben dat , bli et al .
( 123 ) ada str cor lea - ing ( scl ) for sen ana .
li and zon ( 123 ) pro the mul - lab con tra ( mct ) app whi com sev bas cla - ers tra wit scl .
pan et al .
( 123 ) rst use a spe fea ali ( sfa ) alg to ali wor fro die sou and tar dom to hel bri the gap bet the .
the 123 met ser as com in our emp eva .
dee lea app
if dee lea alg are abl to cap , to som ext , the und gen fac tha exp the var in the inp dat , wha is re - all nee to exp tha abi is for the lea rep to hel in dis the und - lyi fac of var .
the sim and mos use way thi cou hap is if som of the fea lea ( the ind ele of the lea rep - res ) are mos rel to onl som of the fac , per onl one .
con , it wou mea tha suc fea wou hav inv pro , i . e . , the wou be hig spe in the res to a sub - set ( may onl one ) of the fac of var and ins to the oth .
thi hyp was tes by goo et al .
( 123 ) , for ima and geo inv ass wit mov of the cam .
it is int to eva dee lea alg on sen ana for sev rea .
fir , if the can ext fea tha som dis the un - der fac of var , thi wou lik hel to per tra acr dom , sin we exp tha the exi gen con tha cha pro rev acr man dom .
sec , for our ama - zon dat , we kno som of the fac ( suc as whe or not a rev is abo a par pro - uct , or is a pos app for tha pro ) , so we can use thi kno to qua che to wha ext the are dis in the lea rep - res : dom ada for sen ana bec a med for bet und dee ar - chi .
fin , eve tho dee lea alg - rit hav not yet bee eva for dom ada - tio of sen cla , sev ver int re - sul hav bee rep on oth tas inv tex - tua dat , bea the pre sta - of - the - art in sev - era cas ( sal and hin , 123 col and wes , 123 ran and szu , 123 ) .
sta den aut - enc
the bas fra for our mod is the sta den aut - enc ( vin et al . , 123 ) .
an aut - enc is com of an enc fun h ( ) and a dec fun g ( ) , typ wit the dim - sio of h ( ) sma tha tha of its arg .
the rec of inp x is giv by r ( x ) = g ( h ( x ) ) , and aut - enc are typ tra to min a for of rec err los ( x , r ( x ) ) .
exa of rec err inc the squ err , or lik her , whe the ele of x or r ( x ) can be con - ere as pro of a dis eve , the kul -
dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
lie div bet ele of x and ele of r ( x ) .
whe the enc and dec are lin and the rec err is qua , one rec in h ( x ) the spa of the pri com ( pca ) of x .
onc an aut - enc has bee tra , one can sta ano aut - enc on top of it , by tra a sec one whi see the enc out of the rst one as its tra dat .
sta aut - enc wer one of the rst met for bui dee arc ( ben et al . , 123 ) , alo wit res bol ma - chi ( rbm ) ( hin et al . , 123 ) .
onc a sta of aut - enc or rbm has bee tra , the pa - ram des mul lev of rep for x and can be use to ini a sup dee neu - ral net ( ben , 123 ) or dir fee a cla , as we do in thi pap .
an int alt to the ord aut - enc is the den aut - enc ( vin et al . , 123 ) or dae , in whi the inp vec x is sto - tic cor int a vec x , and the mod is tra to den , i . e . , to min a den rec - str err los ( x , r ( x ) ) .
hen the dae can sim cop its inp x in its cod lay h ( x ) , eve if the dim of h ( x ) is gre tha tha of x .
the den err can be lin in sev way to the lik of a gen mod of the dis of the unc exa x ( vin , 123 ) .
pro pro
in our set we hav acc to unl dat fro var dom , and to the lab for one sou do - mai onl .
we tac the pro of dom ada - tio for sen cla wit a two - ste pro .
fir , a hig - lev fea ext is lea in an uns fas fro the tex rev of all the ava dom usi a sta den aut - enc ( sda ) wit rec uni ( i . e .
max ( 123 , x ) ) for the cod lay .
rbm wit ( sof ) rec uni hav bee int in ( nai and hin , 123 ) .
we hav use suc uni bec the hav bee sho to out oth non - lin on a sen ana - ysi tas ( glo et al . , 123 ) .
the sda is lea in a gre lay - wis fas usi sto gra des .
for the rst lay , the non - lin of the dec is the log sig , the cor pro is a mas noi ( i . e .
eac act inp has a pro - abi p to be set to 123 ) 123 and the tra cri is the kul - lie div .
the rec non - lin is too har to be use on out uni : rec err gra wou not ow if the
123 als tri to set ina inp to 123 wit a die
pro but we did not obs any imp .
rec was 123 ( arg of the rec is neg - ati ) whe the tar is pos .
for tra the dae of upp lay , we use the sof act fun ( i . e .
log ( 123 + exp ( x ) ) , a smo ver of the rec ) as non - lin for the dec out uni .
we als use the squ err as rec er - ror cri and a gau cor noi , whi is add bef the rec non - lin of the inp lay in ord to kee the spa of the rep - tio .
the cod lay act ( aft the rec ) , at die dep , den the new rep in a sec ste , a lin cla is tra on the tra lab dat of the sou dom .
sup - por vec mac ( svm ) bei kno to per wel on sen cla ( pan et al . , 123 ) , we use a lin svm wit squ hin los .
thi cla - sie is eve tes on the tar dom ( s ) .
the pre pro exh app pro for dom ada of sen cla .
exi dom ada met for sen ana foc on the inf fro the sou and tar dis , whe the sda uns lea can use dat fro oth dom , sha the rep acr all tho dom .
thi als re - duc the com req to tra to sev dom bec a sin rou of uns tra - ing is req , and all us to sca wel wit lar amo of dat and con rea - wor app .
the cod lea by the sda is a non - lin map - pin of the inp and can the enc com dat var .
to the bes of our kno , ex - ist dom ada met for sen ana - ysi map inp int a new or an aug spa usi onl lin pro .
fur , rec non - lin hav the the nic abi to nat pro spa rep ( wit exa zer ) for the cod lay , whi are wel sui to lin cla - ers and are eci wit res to com cos and mem use .
emp eva 123 .
exp set
for bot dat set , the pre cor to the set of ( bli et al . , 123 ) : eac rev tex is tre as a bag - of - wor and tra int bi - nar vec enc the pre / abs of uni - gra and big .
for com rea , onl the 123 mos fre ter of the voc of un - igr and big are kep in the fea set
dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
fig 123
tra los on the ama ben of 123 dom : kit ( k ) , ele ( e ) , dvd ( d ) and boo ( b ) .
all met are tra on the lab set of one dom and eva on the tes set of the oth .
sda out all oth on 123 out of 123 cas .
fig 123
lef : tra rat on the ama ben .
bot sda - bas sys out the res eve if sda is bet .
rig : pro a - dis bet dom of the ama ben for the 123 die pai .
tra dat wit sda inc the pro a - dis .
fig 123
l12 fea sel on the ama ben .
bot gra dep the num of tas of dom rec ( x - axi ) and sen ana ( y - axi ) in whi a fea is re - use by l12 - cla tra on raw fea ( lef ) or fea tra by sda .
( rig ) .
see sec 123 for det .
# dom rec tas sen ana tas dat dom rec tas sen ana tas 123 fea dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
use the tra / tes spl giv in tab 123
for all ex - per , the bas is a lin svm tra on the raw dat whe our met , den sda , cor - res to the sam kin of svm but tra and tes on dat for whi fea hav bee tra - for by the sys des in sec 123
the hyp - par of all svm are cho by cro - val on the tra set .
exp an ext for sda , we a mas noi pro in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ( its opt val was usu hig : 123 ) ; a gau noi sta dev - tio for upp lay in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; a siz of hid lay in ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ( 123 alw gav the bes per ) ; an l12 reg pen on the act val in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ; a lea rat in ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
all val wer sel w . r . t .
the ave in - dom val - tio err .
all alg wer imp usi the the lib ( ber et al . , 123 ) .
we den by e ( s , t ) , the tra err , den as the tes err obt by a met tra on the sou dom s and tes on the tar dom t ( e ( t , t ) is ter the in - dom err ) .
the mai poi of com in dom ada is the bas in - dom err , den eb ( t , t ) , whi cor to the tes err obt by the bas met , i . e .
a lin svm on raw fea tra and tes on the raw fea of the tar dom .
wit the den , we can den the sta do - mai ada met : the tra los t .
the die bet the tra err and the in - dom bas err i . e .
t ( s , t ) = e ( s , t ) eb ( t , t ) for a sou dom s and a tar dom t .
unf , whe one dea wit a lar num of het dom wit die dic ( as wit the lar ama dat ) , the tra los is not sat .
in add , tak its mea ove all pos - sib cou of sou - tar dom is uni - tiv .
hen , we als int the fol met :
tra rat q : it als cha the tra - fer but is den by rep the die by a quo in t bec thi is les sen to im - por var of in - dom err , and thu mor ada to ave .
we rep its mea ove all sou - tar cou of the dat set : q = 123 eb ( t , t ) ( wit n the num of cou ( s , t ) wit s ( cid : 123 ) = t ) .
in - dom rat i : som dom ada
met , lik our , tra the fea rep - sen of all the dom , inc the sou .
thu in - dom err of suc met are die - ent fro tho of the bas .
the in - dom rat mea thi and is den by : i = eb ( t , t ) ( wit m the tot num of dom ) .
ben exp
on the ben of 123 dom , we com our do - mai ada pro wit the 123 met fro the lit int in sec 123 : scl , sfa and mct .
we rep the res fro the ori pap , whi hav bee obt usi the who fea vo - cab and on die spl , but of ide siz as our .
fro our exp , res are con wha - eve the tra / tes spl as lon as set siz are pre - ser .
hen , one can che tha all bas ach sim per .
we als rep res obt by a tra svm ( sin and kee , 123 ) tra in a sta sem - sup set : the tra - ing set of the sou dom is use as lab set , and the tra set of the oth dom as the unl set . 123 on thi dat set wit a rel sma num of tra ins , our uns fea ext is mad of a sin lay of 123 uni .
mai res fig 123 dep the tra los for all met and for all sou - tar dom pai .
the bes tra is ach by the svm tra on our tra fea in 123 out of 123 cas ( scl is onl sli bet in kit ele ) and sig bet for 123 cas .
int , for eac tar dom , the is one cas of neg tra los for sda : an svm tra on a die dom can out an svm tra on the tar dom bec of the qua of our fea .
fig 123 ( lef ) dep the tra rat for the sam met plu the tra svm ( t - svm ) and a sec ver of our sys den sda .
con to sda , the uns tra of sda has not bee per on all the ava dom but on cou , as doe scl : for ins , to tra fro boo to dvd , the fea ext of sda is tra on rev fro the 123 dom onl .
the tra ra - tio for sda bei hig tha for sda , we can con - clu tha sha the uns pre - tra acr all dom ( eve on tho whi are not dir con - cer ) is ben , as exp .
fig 123 als sho tha the com of an uns and a sup -
123 non - lin mod ( mlp ) wer als inv , wit a sim pro as pre in sec 123 , but the did not rea the per in tra of the bas - lin .
we bel thi is due to the sma tra set siz .
dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
of fea tha hav bee re - use for n sen ana - ysi tas and for m dom rec tas .
com - par gra obt usi raw dat and dat tra - for by the sda con our hyp : rel - eva fea for dom rec and sen ana are far les ove in the lat cas .
in - dee , a com fea dis wou lea to a gra for whi onl the rst col and the bot - tom lin wou be col , ind tha eac fea is eit use for dom rec or for sen cla , but not bot .
tra raw dat wit sda bri fea clo to tha pat .
lar - sca exp we now pre res obt on the lar ver of the dat .
the con are mor rea and a bet rep of the rea - wor tha tho of the pre exp : mor dom wit die - ent and lar siz , die rat bet pos and neg exa , etc .
we com 123 met in add to the bas : our fea ext wit ei - the one ( sda ) or 123 lay ( sda ) of 123 uni , and a mul - lay per ( mlp ) wit the fol - ing arc : a sof log reg on top of one hid lay wit 123 hyp tan uni .
fig 123 pre the tra rat of eac mod ac - cor to the in - dom rat .
tho res cor - spo to the fol ave tra gen err : ( bas ) - 123 , ( mlp ) - 123 , ( sda ) - 123 and ( sda ) - 123 .
des the lar num of dom and the het , the is a sig imp for bot sda sys .
the per of the mlp sho tha the non - lin hel but is not suc to gat all nec inf - mat fro dat : one nee an uns pha whi can enc dat fro all dom .
one can als ver tha , on thi lar - sca pro , a sin - gle lay is not eno to rea opt per .
sta 123 lay yie the bes rep fro the dat .
it is wor not tha the imp of sda com to the bas is hig on the y - axi tha on the x - axi : the rep lea by sda is mor ben for tra tha in - dom and is thu tru tai to dom ada .
thi pap has dem tha a dee lea sys bas on sta den aut - enc wit spa rec uni can per an uns fea ext whi is hig ben for the do - mai ada of sen cla .
ind , our exp hav sho tha lin cla tra wit thi hig - lev lea fea rep of
fig 123
tra rat acc to in - dom ra - tio on the lar - sca ama dat .
sys bas on sda are bet for bot met and dep hel .
vis pha per by sda ( and sda ) out - for the pur sem - sup t - svm .
in ter of ab - sol cla per , we obt the fol - low ave tra gen err : bas - lin - 123 , sfa - 123 , sda - 123 .
a - dis the a - dis is a mea of sim - ity bet two pro dis .
ben - dav et al .
( 123 ) sho tha the a - dis bet the sou and tar dis is a cru par of an upp gen bou for dom ada .
the hyp tha it sho be dic to dis - cri bet the sou and tar dom in ord to hav a goo tra bet the , bec thi wou imp sim fea dis .
in pra - tic , com the exa a - dis is imp and one has to com a pro .
hen , we mea the gen err of a lin svm cla tra to dis bet two dom .
our pro for the a - dis is the den as da = 123 ( 123 123 ) .
fig 123 ( rig ) rep the res for eac pai of do - mai .
sur , da is inc in the new fea spa : dom rec is imp by the uns - per fea ext of sda .
con , fol ben - dav et al .
( 123 ) , the rep of sda sho hur tra , but we als obs an imp ( see fig 123 ) .
an exp cou be tha the uns fea ext dis dom spe and sen pol inf .
to tes thi hyp , we tra an l12 - reg svm to sel the mos rel fea on 123 dom rec tas ( one per dom pai ) , and 123 sen - men ana tas ( one per dom plu all dom tog ) .
fig 123 sho a his of the num of tas ass wit ind fea , sep int the num of dom vs sen tas .
the col lev at coo ( n , m ) ind the num
dom ada for sen cla wit dee lea
rev out the cur sta - of - the - art .
fur - the , we hav bee abl to suc per dom ada on an ind - sca dat of 123 dom , whe we sig imp gen - tio ove the bas and ove a sim str but pur sup alt .
thi wor was sup by dar dl pro , crs , mit , rqc and sha .
