one lon - ter goa of mac lea res is to pro met tha are app to hig com tas , suc as per ( vis , aud ) , rea - son , int con , and oth art int beh .
we arg tha in ord to pro tow thi goa , the mac lea com mus end to dis alg tha can lea hig com fun , wit min - ima nee for pri kno , and wit min hum int .
we pre mat and emp evi sug tha man pop app to non - par lea , par ker met , are fun lim - ite in the abi to lea com hig - dim fun .
our ana foc on two pro .
fir , ker mac are sha arc , in whi one lar lay of sim tem mat is fol by a sin lay of tra coe .
we arg tha sha arc can be ver ine - cie in ter of req num of com ele and exa .
sec - ond , we ana a lim of ker mac wit a loc ker , lin to the cur of dim , tha app to sup , uns ( man lea - ing ) and sem - sup ker mac .
usi emp res on inv ima rec tas , ker met are com wit dee arc , in whi low - lev fea or con are pro com int mor ab - str and hig - lev rep .
we arg tha dee arc hav the pot to gen in non - loc way , i . e . , bey imm nei , and tha thi is cru in ord to mak pro on the kin of com tas req for art int .
sta mac lea res has yie a ric set of alg and mat - mat too ove the las dec , and has giv ris to a num of com and sci app .
how , som of the ini goa of thi eld of res re - mai elu .
a lon - ter goa of mac lea res is to pro met tha wil ena art int age cap of lea com beh wit min hum int and pri kno .
exa of suc com beh are fou in vis per , aud per , and nat lan
the mai obj of thi cha is to dis fun lim of cer - tai cla of lea alg , and poi tow app tha ove the lim .
the lim ari fro two asp of the alg : sha ar - chi , and loc est .
we wou lik our lea alg to be efc in thr res :
com : num of com dur tra and dur rec ,
sta : num of exa req for goo gen , esp la -
bel dat , and
hum inv : amo of hum lab nec to tai the alg to a tas , i . e . , spe the pri kno bui int the mod bef tra .
( exp , or imp thr eng des wit a hum - in - the - loo ) .
the las qua cen has giv us exi non - par lea alg tha can lea any con inp - out map , pro eno com res and tra dat .
a cru que is how efc are som of the pop lea - ing met whe the are app to com per tas , suc a vis pat rec wit com int - cla var .
the cha mos foc on com and sta efc .
amo exi lea alg , we est a dis bet sha arc , and dee arc .
sha arc are bes exe by mod ker mac ( sch et al . , 123 ) , suc as sup vec mac ( svm ) ( bos et al . , 123 , cor and vap , 123 ) .
the con of one lay of xed ker fun , who rol is to mat the inc pat wit tem ex - tra fro a tra set , fol by a lin com of the mat sco .
sin the tem are ext fro the tra set , the rst lay of a ker ma - chi can be see as bei tra in a som tri uns way .
the onl com sub to sup tra are the coe of the lin com -
dee arc are per bes exe by mul - lay neu net wit sev hid lay .
in gen ter , dee arc are com of mul - tip lay of par non - lin mod .
the par of eve mod are
123 svm onl a sub of the exa are sel as tem ( the sup vec ) , but thi is equ -
ale to cho whi coe of the sec lay are non - zer .
sub to lea .
dee arc rar app in the mac lea lit - tur the vas maj of neu net res has foc on sha arc wit a sin hid lay , bec of the dif of tra net wit mor tha 123 or 123 lay ( tes , 123 ) .
not exc inc wor on con net ( lec et al . , 123 , lec et al . , 123 ) , and rec wor on dee bel net ( hin et al . , 123 ) .
whi sha arc hav adv , suc as the pos to use con los fun , we sho tha the als hav lim in the efc of the rep - tat of cer typ of fun fam .
alt a num of the sho tha cer sha arc ( gau ker mac , 123 - hid lay neu net , etc ) can app any fun wit arb pre , the mak no sta as to the efc of the rep .
con , dee arc can , in pri - cip , rep cer fam of fun mor efc ( and wit bet sca pro ) tha sha one , but the ass los fun are alm alw non
the cha sta wit a sho dis abo tas - spe ver mor gen typ of lea alg .
alt the hum bra is som cit as an ex - ist pro of a gen - pur lea alg , app can be dec : the so - cal no - fre - lun the ( wol , 123 ) , as wel as vap nec and suf con for con ( vap , 123 , see ) , cle sho tha the is no suc thi as a com gen lea alg .
all pra lea al - gor are ass wit som sor of exp or imp pri tha fav som fun ove oth .
sin a que for a com gen lea met is doo to fai , one is red to sea for lea mod tha are wel sui for a par typ of tas .
for us , hig on the lis of use tas are tho tha mos ani can per - for eff , suc as per and con , as wel as tas tha hig ani and hum can do suc as lon - ter pre , rea , pla , and lan und .
in sho , our aim is to loo for lea met tha bri us clo to an art int age .
wha mat the mos in thi end is how ef - cie our mod can cap and rep the req kno .
the efc is mea alo thr mai dim : the amo of tra dat req ( esp - cia lab dat ) , the amo of com res req to rea a giv lev of per , and mos imp , the amo of hum eff req to spe the pri kno bui int the mod bef tra ( exp , or imp ) thi cha dis the sca pro of var lea mod , in par ker mac , wit res to tho thr dim , in par the rst two .
ker mac are non - par lea mod , whi mak app wea ass - tio on the for of the fun f ( ) to be lea .
by non - par met we mea met whi all the com of the sol to inc ( e . g . , by hyp - par sel ) whe mor dat are ava .
thi inc cla k - nea - nei alg , mod ker mac , mix mod , and mul - lay neu net ( whe the num of hid uni can be sel usi the dat ) .
our ar - gum are cen aro two lim of ker mac : the rst lim app mor gen to sha arc , whi inc neu net wit a sin hid lay .
in sec 123 we con dif typ of fun cla , i . e . ,
arc , inc dif sub - typ of sha arc .
we con the tra - off bet the dep of the arc and its bre ( num of ele in eac lay ) , thu cla the rep lim of sha arc .
the sec lim is mor spe and con ker mac wit a loc ker - nel .
thi lim is stu rst inf in sec 123 by tho exp in the use of tem mat for vis per .
sec 123 the foc mor for on loc est , i . e . , in whi the pre f ( x ) at poi x is dom by the nea nei of x tak fro the tra set .
thi inc ker mac in whi the ker is loc , lik the gau ker .
the alg rel on a pri exp as a dis or sim fun bet pai of exa , and enc - pas cla sta alg as wel as mod ker mac .
thi lim is per , not onl in cla , reg , and den est , but als in man lea and sem - sup lea , whe man mod met hav suc loc pro , and are oft exp bas on the gra of nea nei .
usi vis pat rec as an exa , we ill how the sha nat of ker mac lea to fun ine rep .
fin , dee arc are pro as a way to esc fro the fun lim abo .
sec 123 con on the adv and dis of dee arc , whi inv mul lev of tra mod bet inp and out .
the can ret the des exi in the lea fun , and inc the efc of the mod alo all thr dim of amo of tra dat , amo of com res , and amo of hum pri han - cod .
alt a num - ber of lea alg for dee arc hav bee ava for som tim , tra suc arc is sti lar per as a dif cha .
we dis rec app to tra suc dee net tha for new bre in thi dir .
the tra - off bet con and non - con has , up unt rec , fav res int lea alg wit con opt pro .
we hav fou tha non - con opt is som mor efc tha con opt .
non - con los fun may be an una pro of lea com fun - tio fro wea pri kno .
123 lea mod tow ai
the no - fre - lun the for lea alg ( wol , 123 ) sta tha no com gen - pur lea alg can exi , in the sen tha for eve lea mod the is a dat dis on whi it wil far poo ( on bot tra and tes , in the cas of nit vc dim ) .
eve lea mod mus con im - pli or exp res on the cla of fun tha it can lea .
amo the set of all pos fun , we are par int in a sub tha con all the tas inv in int beh .
exa of suc tas inc vis per - tio , aud per , pla , con , etc .
the set doe not jus inc spe vis per tas ( e . g hum fac det ) , but the set of all the tas tha an int age sho be abl to lea .
in the fol , we wil cal thi set of fun - tio the ai - set .
bec we wan to ach ai , we pri tho tas tha are in
alt we may lik to thi tha the hum bra is som gen - pur , it is ext res in its abi to lea hig - dim fun .
the bra of hum and hig ani , wit the lea abi , can pot imp the ai - set , and con a wor pro of the fea of ai .
we adv tha the ai - set is a tin sub of the set of all pos fun , but the spe of thi tin sub may be eas tha it app .
to ill thi poi , we wil use the exa rst pro by ( lec and den , 123 ) .
the con bet the ret and the vis are in the bra get wir up rel lat in emb .
if one mak the app rea ass tha all pos per of the mil of ber in the opt ner are equ , the is not eno bit in the gen to enc the cor wir , and no lif lon eno to lea it .
the at pri ass mus be rej : som wir mus be sim to spe ( or mor lik ) tha oth .
in wha see lik an inc for coi , a par goo ( if not cor ) wir pat hap to be one tha pre top .
coi , thi wir pat hap to be ver sim to des in alm any lan ( for exa , the bio lan use by bio can eas spe top - pre wir pat thr con gra of ner gro fac ) .
how can we be so for tha the cor pri be so sim to des , yet so inf ? lec and den ( 123 ) poi out tha the bra exi in the ver sam phy wor for whi it nee to bui int mod .
hen the spe of goo pri for mod the wor hap to be sim in tha wor ( the dim and top of the wor is com to bot ) .
bec of thi , we are all to hop tha the ai - set , whi a tin sub of all pos fun , may be spe wit a rel sma amo of inf .
in pra , pri kno can be emb in a lea mod by spe
thr ess com :
the rep of the dat : pre - pro , fea ext , etc .
the arc of the mac : the fam of fun tha the mac can
imp and its par .
the los fun and reg : how dif fun in the fam are rat , giv a set of tra sam , and whi fun are pre in the abs of tra sam ( pri or reg ) .
ins by ( hin , to app .
123 ) , we cla mac lea res str - gie in the pur of ai int thr cat .
one is def : sin no goo pa - ram of the ai - set is cur ava , let spe a muc sma set for eac spe tas thr car han - des of the pre - pro , the arc , and the reg .
if tas - spe des mus be dev by han for eac new tas , ach ai wil req an ove amo of hum eff .
nev - les , thi con the mos pop app for app mac lea to new pro : des a cle pre - pro ( or dat rep sch ) , so tha a sta lea mod ( suc as an svm ) wil be abl to lea the tas .
a som sim app is to spe the tas - spe pri kno in the str of a
gra mod by exp rep imp int fea and con - cep thr lat var who fun dep on obs var is har - wir .
muc of the res in gra mod ( jor , 123 ) ( esp of the par typ ) fol thi app .
bot of the app , the ker ap - pro wit hum - des ker or fea , and the gra mod app wit hum - des dep str and sem , are ver att in the sho ter bec the oft yie qui res in mak pro on a spe tas , tak adv of hum ing and imp or exp kno abo the tas , and req sma amo of lab dat .
the sec str is den : eve wit a gen ker suc as the gau ker , ker mac can app any fun , and reg ( wit the bou ) gua gen .
why wou we nee any els ? thi bel con the no fre lun the .
alt ker mac can rep any lab of a par tra set , the can efc rep a ver sma and ver spe sub of fun , whi the fol sec of thi cha wil at - tem to cha .
whe thi sma sub cov a lar par of the ai - set is ver dub , as we wil sho .
in gen , wha we thi of as gen lea alg - rit can onl wor wel wit cer typ of dat rep and not so wel wit oth .
the can in fac rep cer typ of fun efc , and not oth .
whi the cle pre / gen lea alg app may be use for sol spe pro , it bri abo lit pro on the roa to ai .
how can we hop to sol the wid var of tas req to ach ai wit thi lab - int app ? mor imp , how can we eve hop to int eac of the sep - bui , sep - tra , spe mod int a coh ar - tic int sys ? eve if we cou bui tho mod , we wou nee ano lea par to be abl to int the int a coh sys .
the thi str is opt : let loo for lea mod tha can be app to the lar pos sub of the ai - set , whi req the sma pos amo of add han - spe kno for eac spe tas wit the ai - set .
the que bec : is the a par of the ai - set tha can be efc im - ple wit com tec ?
con for exa the pro of obj rec in com vis : we cou be int in bui rec for at lea sev tho cat of obj .
sho we hav spe alg for eac ? sim , in nat lan pro , the foc of muc cur res is on dev app fea for spe tas suc as rec or par tex of a par typ ( suc as spa ema , job ads , nan new , etc ) .
are we goi to hav to do thi lab - int wor for all the pos typ of tex ? our sys wil not be ver sma if we hav to man eng new pat eac tim new a typ of tex or new typ of obj cat mus be pro .
if the exi mor gen - pur lea mod , at lea gen eno to han mos of the tas tha ani and hum can han , the sea for the may sav us a con amo of lab in the lon run .
as dis in the nex sec , a mat con way to cha the kin of com tas nee for ai is tha the inv lea hig non - lin fun wit man var ( i . e . , who der cha dir oft ) .
thi is pro in con wit a pri tha smo fun are mor lik , i . e . ,
hav few or sma var .
we mea f to be smo whe the val of f ( x ) and of its der f ( x ) are clo to the val of f ( x + ) and f ( x + ) res whe x and x + are clo as den by a ker or a dis .
thi cha adv sev arg tha the smo pri alo is ins to lea hig - var fun .
thi is int rel to the cur of dim , but as we nd thr our inv , it is not the num of dim so muc as the amo of var tha mat .
a one - dim fun cou be dif to lea , and man hig - dim fun can be app wel eno wit a smo fun , so tha non - par met rel onl on the smo pri can sti giv goo res .
we cal str pri a typ of pri kno tha giv hig pro ( or low com ) to a ver sma set of fun ( gen rel to a sma set of tas ) , and bro pri a typ of pri kno tha giv mod hig pro to a wid set of rel fun ( whi may cov a lar sub of tas wit the ai - set ) .
str pri are tas - spe , whi bro pri are mor rel to the gen str of our wor .
we cou pre con tha if a fun has man loc var ( hen is not ver smo ) , the it is not lea unl str pri kno is at han .
for , thi is not tru .
fir , the is no rea to bel tha smo pri sho hav a spe sta ove oth typ of pri .
usi smo pri whe we kno tha the fun we wan to lea are non - smo wou see cou - pro .
oth bro pri are pos .
a sim way to den a pri is to den a lan ( e . g . , a pro lan ) wit whi we exp fun , and fav fun tha hav a low kol com in tha lan , i . e .
fun who pro is sho .
con usi the c pro lan ( alo wit sta lib tha com wit it ) to den our pri , and lea fun suc as g ( x ) = sin ( x ) ( wit x a rea val ) or g ( x ) = par ( x ) ( wit x a bin vec of xed dim ) .
the wou be rel eas to lea wit a sma num of sam bec the des is ext sho in c and the are ver pro und the cor pri , des the fac tha the are hig non - smo .
we do not adv the exp use of kol com in a con pro lan to des new lea alg , but we use thi exa to ill tha it is pos to lea app com fun ( in the sen the var a lot ) usi bro pri , by usi a non - loc lea alg , cor to pri oth tha the smo pri .
thi tho exa and the stu of toy pro lik the par pro in the res of the cha als sho tha the mai cha is to des lea alg tha can dis rep of the dat tha com des reg in it .
thi is in con wit the app of enu the var pre in the tra dat , and hop to rel on loc smo to cor ll in the spa bet the tra sam .
as we men ear , the may exi bro pri , wit see sim de - scr , tha gre red the spa of acc fun in app way .
in vis sys , an exa of suc a bro pri , whi is ins by nat bia tow ret map , is the kin of con use in con net - wor for vis pat rec ( lec et al . , 123 , lec et al . , 123 ) .
thi wil be exa in det in sec 123
ano exa of bro pri , whi we dis in sec 123 , is tha the fun to be lea sho be exp as mul -
ple lev of com of sim fun , whe dif lev of fun can be vie as dif lev of abs .
the not of con and of abs - tio tha we tal abo is rat bro and sim mea a ran qua str dep of the obs dat , and use in bui a rep of its dis - but tha gen wel .
fun at low lev of abs sho be fou use for cap som sim asp of the dat dis , so tha it is pos - ble to rst lea the sim fun and the com the to lea mor abs con .
ani and hum do lea in thi way , wit sim con ear in lif , and hig - lev abs lat , exp in ter of the pre lea con .
not all fun can be dec in thi way , but hum app to hav suc a con .
if suc a hie did not exi , hum wou be abl to lea new con in any ord .
hen we can hop tha thi typ of pri may be use to hel cov the ai - set , but yet spe eno to exc the vas maj of use
it is a the of the pre wor tha lea alg tha bui suc dee lay arc off a pro ave for sca mac lea tow ai .
ano rel the is tha one sho not con the lar var of tas sep , but as dif asp of a mor gen pro : tha of lea the bas str of the wor , as see say thr the eye and ear of a gro ani or a you chi .
thi is an ins of mul - tas lea whe it is cle tha the dif tas sha a str com .
thi all us to hop tha aft tra suc a sys on a lar var of tas in the ai - set , the sys may gen to a new tas fro onl a few lab exa .
we hyp tha man tas in the ai - set may be bui aro com rep , whi can be und as a set of int con .
if our goa is to bui a lea mac for the ai - set , our res sho con -
cen on dev lea mod wit the fol fea :
a hig exi way to spe pri kno , hen a lea alg
tha can fun wit a lar rep of arc .
a lea alg tha can dea wit dee arc , in whi a dec inv the man of man int con , and mul lev of
a lea alg tha can han lar fam of fun , par
wit mil of ind par .
a lea alg tha can be tra efc eve , whe the num of tra exa bec ver lar .
thi exc lea alg req - ing to sto and ite mul tim ove the who tra set , or for whi the amo of com per exa inc as mor exa are see .
thi str sug the use of on - lin lea .
a lea alg tha can dis con tha can be sha eas amo mul tas and mul mod ( mul - tas lea ) , and tha can tak adv of lar amo of unl dat ( sem - sup lea ) .
123 lea arc , sha and dee
123 arc typ
in thi sec , we den the not of sha and dee arc .
an inf dis of the rel adv and dis is pre usi exa .
a mor for dis of the lim of sha arc wit loc smo - nes ( whi inc mos mod ker met ) is giv in the nex sec .
fol the tra of the cla boo per ( min and pap , 123 ) , it is ins to cat dif typ of lea arc and to ana the lim and adv .
to x ide , con the sim cas of cla in whi a dis lab is pro by the lea mac y = f ( x , w ) , whe x is the inp pat , and w a par whi ind the fam of fun f tha can be imp by the arc f = ( f ( , w ) , w w ) .
fig 123 : dif typ of sha arc .
( a ) typ - 123 : xed pre and lin pre ( b ) typ - 123 : tem mat and lin pre ( ker mac ) ; ( c ) typ - 123 : sim tra bas fun and lin pre ( neu net wit one hid lay , rbf net ) .
tra per , lik man cur pop lea mod , are sha - low arc .
dif typ of sha arc are rep in gur 123
typ - 123 arc hav xed pre in the rst lay ( e . g . , per ) .
typ - 123 arc hav tem mat in the rst lay ( e . g . , ker mac ) .
typ - 123 arc hav sim tra bas fun in the rst lay ( e . g . , neu net wit one hid lay , rbf net ) .
all thr hav a lin tra in the
123 . 123 sha arc typ 123
fix pre - pro plu lin pre , gur 123 ( a ) : the sim sha arc - tec is com of a xed pre lay ( som cal fea or ba - sis fun ) , fol by a lin pre .
the typ of lin pre use , and the way it is tra is uns ( max - mar , log reg , per ,
vec : f ( x ) = pk
squ err reg . . . . ) .
the fam f is lin par in the par i=1 wii ( x ) .
thi typ of arc is wid use in pra - cal app .
sin the pre - pro is xed ( and han - cra ) , it is nec tas - spe in pra .
it is pos to ima a sha typ - 123 mac tha wou par the com ai - set .
for exa , we cou ima a mac in whi eac fea is a mem of the ai - set , hen eac par mem of the ai - set can be rep wit a wei vec con all zer , exc for a sin 123 at the rig pla .
whi the pro exi mor com way to lin par - ter the ent ai - set , the num of nec fea wou sur be pro .
mor imp , we do not kno exp the fun of the ai - set , so thi is not
123 . 123 sha arc typ 123
f ( x ) = b + pn
tem mat plu lin pre , gur 123 ( b ) : nex on the sca of ada is the tra ker mac arc .
the pre is a vec of val res fro the app of a ker fun k ( x , xi ) to eac tra sam i=1 ik ( x , xi ) , whe n is the num of tra sam , the pa - ram w con all the i and the bia b .
in eff , the rst lay can be see as a ser of tem mat in whi the tem are the tra sam .
typ - 123 arc can be see as spe for of typ - 123 arc in whi the fea are dat - dep , whi is to say i ( x ) = k ( x , xi ) .
thi is a sim for of uns - per lea , for the rst lay .
thr the fam ker tri ( see ( sch et al . , 123 ) ) , typ - 123 arc can be see as a com way of rep typ - 123 arc , inc som tha may be too lar to be pra .
if the ker fun sat the mer con it can be exp as an inn pro bet fea vec k ( x , xi ) =< ( x ) , ( xi ) > , giv us a lin rel bet the
par vec in bot for : w for typ - 123 arc isp i ( xi )
ver att fea of suc arc is tha for sev com los fun ( e . g . , squ err , mar los ) tra the inv a con opt pro .
whi the pro are lar per as the mag beh ker met , the sho not dis us fro the fac tha the rst lay of a ker mac is oft jus a ser of tem mat .
in mos ker mac , the ker is use as a kin of tem mat , but oth cho are pos .
usi tas - spe pri kno , one can des a ker tha inc the rig abs for the tas .
thi com at the cos of low efc in ter of hum lab .
whe a ker act lik a tem mat , we cal it loc : k ( x , xi ) dis bet val of x tha are nea xi and tho tha are not .
som of the mat res in thi cha foc on the gau ker , whe nea cor to sma euc dis .
one cou say tha one of the mai iss wit ker mac wit loc ker is tha the are lit mor tha tem mat .
it is pos to use ker tha are non - loc yet not tas - spe , suc as the lin ker and pol ker - nel .
how , mos pra hav bee pre lin ker or loc ker .
lin ker are typ - 123 sha arc , wit the obv lim .
loc ker hav bee pop bec the mak int sen ( it is eas to ins pri kno ) , whi pol ker ten to gen ver poo whe ext -
lat ( e . g . , gro ove ) .
the smo pri imp in loc ker is qui rea for a lot of the app tha hav bee con , whe the pri imp by pol ker is les cle .
lea the ker wou mov us to typ - 123 sha arc or dee arc des bel .
123 . 123 sha arc typ 123
sim tra bas fun plu lin pre , gur 123 ( c ) : in typ - 123 sha arc , the rst lay con of sim bas fun tha are tra thr sup lea .
thi can imp the efc of the fun rep , by tun the bas fun to a tas .
sim tra bas fun inc lin com fol by poi - wis non - lin and gau rad - bas fun - tio ( rbf ) .
tra neu net wit one hid lay , and rbf net bel to tha cat .
ker mac in whi the ker fun is lea ( and sim ) als bel to the sha typ - 123 cat .
man boo alg bel to thi cla as wel .
unl wit typ 123 and 123 , the out is a non - lin fun of the par to be lea .
hen the los fun min by lea are lik to be non - con in the par .
the den of typ - 123 arc is som fuz , sin it rel on the ill - den con of sim par
we sho imm emp tha the bou bet the var cat - gor is som fuz .
for exa , tra the hid lay of a one - hid - lay neu net ( a typ - 123 sha arc ) is a non - con pro , but one cou ima - ine con a hid lay so lar tha all pos hid uni fun wou be pre fro the sta .
onl the out lay wou nee to be tra .
mor spe - ica , whe the num of hid uni bec ver lar , and an l12 reg is use on the out wei , suc a neu net bec a ker mac , who ker has a sim for tha can be com ana ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
if we use the mar los thi bec an svm wit a par ker .
alt con is onl ach in the mat lim of an inn num of hid uni , we con tha opt of sin - hid - lay neu net bec eas as the num of hid uni bec lar .
if sin - hid - lay neu net hav any adv ove svm , it is tha the can , in pri , ach sim per wit a sma rst lay ( sin the par of the rst lay can be opt for
not als tha our mat res on loc ker mac are lim in sco , and mos are der for spe ker suc as the gau ker , or for loc ker ( in the sen of k ( u , v ) bei nea zer whe ||u v|| bec lar ) .
how , the arg pre bel con the sha of ker ma - chi are mor gen .
123 . 123 dee arc
dee arc are com of man lay of ada non - lin com , in oth wor , the are cas of par non - lin mod tha con tra par at all lev .
dee arc all the rep of wid
fam of fun in a mor com for tha sha arc , bec the can tra spa for tim ( or bre for dep ) whi mak the tim - spa pro sma , as dis bel .
the out of the int lay are aki to int - dia res on the way to com the nal out .
fea pro by the low lay rep low - lev abs , tha are com to for hig - lev fea at the nex lay , rep hig - lev abs .
123 the dep - bre tra
any spe fun can be imp by a sui des sha arc - tur or by a dee arc .
sim , whe par a fam of fun , we hav the cho bet sha or dee arc .
the imp que are : 123
how lar is the cor arc ( wit how man par , how muc com to pro the out ) ; 123
how muc man lab is inv in spe the arc to the tas .
usi a num of exa , we sha dem tha dee arc are oft mor efc ( in ter of num of com com and par ) for rep com fun .
for ana of the com com of sha cir can be fou in has ( 123 ) or all ( 123 ) .
the poi in the sam dir : sha cir are muc les exp tha dee one .
let us rst con the tas of add two n - bit bin num .
the mos nat cir inv add the bit pai by pai and pro the car .
the car pro - aga tak o ( n ) ste , and als o ( n ) har res .
hen the mos nat arc for bin add is a dee one , wit o ( n ) lay and o ( n ) ele .
a sha arc can imp any boo for exp in dis nor for ( dnf ) , by com the min ( and fun ) in the rst lay , and the sub or fun usi a lin cla ( a thr gat ) wit a low thr .
unf , eve for sim boo ope suc as bin add and mul , the num of ter can be ext lar ( up to o ( 123 ) for n - bit inp in the wor cas ) .
the com ind has in fac dev a con amo of eff to opt the imp of exp boo fun , but the lar it can put on a sin chi has onl abo 123 inp bit ( a 123 - gbi ram chi , as of 123 ) .
thi is why pra dig cir , e . g . , for add or mul two num are bui wit mul lay of log gat : the 123 - lay imp ( aki to a loo tab ) wou be pro exp .
see ( utg and str , 123 ) for a pre dis of thi que in the con of lea arc .
ano int exa is the boo par fun .
the n - bit boo
par fun can be imp in at lea ve way :
( 123 ) wit n dai - cha xor gat ( an n - lay arc or a rec cir
wit one xor gat and n tim ste ) ;
( 123 ) wit n 123 xor gat arr in a tre ( a log n lay arc ) , for a tot
of o ( n log n ) com
( 123 ) a dnf for wit o ( 123 ) min ( two lay ) .
arc 123 has hig dep and low bre ( sma amo of com ele ) , arc 123 is a goo tra bet dep and bre , and arc 123 has hig bre and low dep .
if one all the use of mul - inp bin thr gat ( lin cla ) in add to tra log gat , two mor arc are pos ( min and pap , 123 ) :
( 123 ) a 123 - lay arc con as fol .
the rst lay has n bin thr - old gat ( lin cla ) in whi uni i add the inp bit and sub i , hen com the pre xi = ( sum of bit i ) .
the sec lay con ( n 123 ) / 123 and gat tha com ( xia d ( n ot xi+ ) ) for all i tha are odd .
the las lay is a sim or gat .
( 123 ) a 123 - lay arc in whi the rst lay is ide to tha of the 123 - lay ar - chi abo , and the sec lay is a lin thr gat ( lin cla ) whe the wei for inp xi is equ to ( 123 ) i .
the fou arc req a dyn ran ( acc ) on the wei lin in n , whi the las one req a dyn ran exp in n .
a pro tha n - bit par req o ( 123 ) gat to be rep by a dep - 123 boo cir ( wit and , not and or gat ) can be fou in ajt ( 123 ) .
in the 123 ( sec 123 . 123 ) we sta a sim res for lea arc : an exp num of ter is req wit a gau ker mac in ord to rep the par fun .
in man ins , spa ( or bre ) can be tra for tim ( or dep ) wit con
the neg res may see rem of the cla res in min and pap boo per ( min and pap , 123 ) .
thi sho com as no sur : sha arc ( par of typ 123 and 123 ) fal int min and pap gen den of a per and are sub to man of its lim .
ano int exa in whi add lay is ben is the fas fou tra alg ( fft ) .
sin the dis fou tra is a lin ope , it can be per by a mat mul wit n 123 com mul , whi can all be per in par , fol by o ( n 123 ) add to col the sum .
how the fft alg can red the tot cos to 123 123 n log n , mul , wit the tra of req log n seq ste inv n 123 mul eac .
thi exa sho tha , eve wit lin fun , add lay all us to tak adv of the int reg in the tas .
bec eac var can be eit abs , pre , or neg in a min , the are m = 123 dif pos min whe the cir has n inp .
the set of all pos dnf for wit k min and n inp has c ( m , k ) ele ( the num of com of k ele fro m ) .
cle tha set ( whi is ass wit the set of fun rep wit k min ) gro ver fas wit k .
goi fro k 123 to k min inc the num of com by a fac ( m k ) / k .
whe k is not clo to m , the siz of the set of dnf for is exp in the num of inp n .
the arg wou sug tha onl an exp ( in n ) sma fra of all boo fun req a les tha exp num of
we cla tha mos fun tha can be rep com by dee arc - tur can be rep by a com sha arc .
ima rep the log ope ove k lay of a log cir int a dnf for .
the op - era per by the gat on eac of the lay are lik to get com int a num of min tha cou be exp in the ori num of lay .
to see thi , con a k lay log cir whe eve odd lay has and gat ( wit the opt of neg arg ) and eve eve lay has or gat .
eve and - or con lay cor to a sum of pro in mod - 123 ari .
the who cir is the com of k / 123 suc sum of pro , and it is thu a dee fac - tio of a for .
in gen , whe a fac rep is exp int a sin sum of pro , one get a num of ter tha can be exp in the num of lev .
a sim phe exp why mos com dnf for req an exp num of ter whe wri as a con nor for ( cnf ) for .
a sur of mor gen res in com com of boo cir - cui can be fou in all ( 123 ) .
for exa , has ( 123 ) sho tha for all k , the are dep k + 123 cir of lin siz tha req exp siz to sim wit dep k cir .
thi imp tha mos fun rep com wit a dee arc wou req a ver lar num of com if rep wit a sha one .
hen res our to sha arc und lim the spe of fun tha can be rep com and lea efc ( at lea in a sta sen ) .
in par , hig - var fun ( in the sen of hav - ing hig fre in the fou spe ) are dif to rep wit a cir of dep 123 ( lin et al . , 123 ) .
the res tha we pre in sec 123 yie a sim con : rep hig - var fun wit a gau ker mac is
123 the lim of mat glo tem
bef div int the for ana of loc mod , we com the ker mac ( typ - 123 arc ) wit dee arc usi exa .
one of the fun pro in pat rec is how to han int - cla var .
tak the ex - amp of let rec , we can pic the set of all the pos ima of the let e on a 123 123 pix gri as a set of con man in the pix spa ( e . g . , a man for low cas and one for cur ) .
the es on a man can be con - ous mor int eac oth by fol a pat on the man .
the dim of the man at one loc cor to the num of ind dis tha can can be app to an ima whi pre its cat .
for han let - ter cat , the man has a hig dim : let can be dis usi afn tra ( 123 par ) , dis usi an ela she def ( hig dim - sio ) , or mod so as to cov the ran of pos wri sty , sha , and str wid .
eve for sim cha ima , the man is ver non - lin , wit hig cur .
to con our of tha , con the sha of the let w .
any pix in the low hal of the ima wil go fro whi to bla and whi aga fou tim as the w is shi hor wit the ima fra fro lef to rig .
thi is the sig of a hig non - lin sur .
mor , man for oth cha cat are clo int .
con the sha of a cap u and an o at the sam loc .
the hav man pix in com , man mor pix in fac tha wit a shi ver - sio of the sam u .
hen the dis bet the u and o man is sma tha the dis bet two us shi by a few pix .
ano ins abo the hig cur of the man can be obt fro the exa in gur 123 : the tan vec of the hor tra man cha abr as we tra the im - age onl one pix to the rig , ind hig cur .
as dis in sec 123 , man ker alg mak an imp ass of a loc smo fun ( e . g . , loc lin in the cas of svm ) aro eac tra exa xi .
hen a hig cur - vat imp the nec of a lar num of tra exa in ord to cov all the des twi and tur wit loc con or loc lin pie .
thi bri us to wha we per as the mai sho of tem - bas met : a ver lar num of tem may be req in ord to cov eac man wit eno tem to avo mis .
fur , the num of nec tem can gro exp wit the int dim of a cla - inv man .
the onl way to cir the pro wit a typ - 123 arc - tur is to des sim mea for mat tem ( ker fun ) suc tha two pat tha are on the sam man are dee sim .
unf , dev suc sim mea , eve for a pro as bas as dig rec , has pro dif , des alm 123 yea of act res .
fur , if suc a goo tas - spe ker wer nal des , it may be ina to oth cla
to fur ill the sit , con the pro of det and ide a sim mot ( say , of siz s = 123 pix ) tha can app at d dif loc in a uni whi ima wit n pix ( say 123 pix ) .
to sol thi pro , a sim ker - mac arc wou req one tem of the mot for eac pos - ble loc .
thi req n . d ele ope .
an arc tha all for spa loc fea det wou mer req s . d ele ope .
we sho emp tha thi spa loc ( fea det tha dep on pix wit a lim rad in the ima pla ) is dis fro the loc of ker fun - tio ( fea det tha pro lar val onl for inp vec tha are wit a lim rad in the inp vec spa ) .
in fac , spa loc fea det hav non - loc res in the spa of inp vec , sin the out is ind of the inp pix the are not con to .
a sli mor com exa is the tas of det and rec a pat com of two dif mot .
eac mot occ s pix , and can app at d dif loc ind of eac oth .
a ker mac wou nee a sep tem for eac pos occ of the two mot , i . e . , n . d12 com ele .
by con , a pro des typ - 123 arc wou mer req a set of loc fea det for all the pos of the rst mot , and a sim set for the sec mot .
the tot amo of ele ope is a mer 123 . d .
we do not kno of any ker tha wou all to efc han com str .
an eve mor dir sit occ if the bac is not uni whi , but can con ran clu .
a ker mac wou pro nee man dif tem con the des mot on top of man dif bac .
by con - tra , the loc - con dee arc des in the pre par wil han thi sit jus ne .
we hav ver thi typ of beh exp
( see exa in sec 123 ) .
the tho exp ill the lim of ker mac due to the fac tha the rst lay is res to mat the inc pat wit glo tem - pla .
by con , the typ - 123 arc tha use spa loc fea det han the pos jit and the clu eas and efc .
bot arc are sha , but whi eac ker fun is act in a sma are of the inp spa , the spa loc fea det are act by a hug ( n s ) - dim sub - spa of the inp spa ( sin the onl loo at s pix ) .
dee arc wit spa - loc fea det are eve mor efc ( see sec 123 ) .
hen the lim - ita of ker mac are not jus due to the sha , but als to the loc cha of the res fun ( loc in inp spa , not in the spa of ima
123 fun lim of loc lea
a lar fra of the rec wor in sta mac lea has foc on non - par lea alg whi rel sol , exp or imp , on a smo pri .
a smo pri fav fun f suc tha whe x x , f ( x ) f ( x ) .
add pri kno is exp by cho the spa of the dat and the par not of sim bet exa ( typ exp as a ker fun ) .
thi cla of lea alg inc mos ins of the ker mac alg ( sch et al . , 123 ) , suc as sup vec mac ( svm ) ( bos et al . , 123 , cor and vap , 123 ) or gau pro ( wil and ras , 123 ) , but als uns lea alg tha att to cap - tur the man str of the dat , suc as loc lin emb ( row and sau , 123 ) , iso ( ten et al . , 123 ) , ker pca ( sch et al . , 123 ) , lap eig ( bel and niy , 123 ) , man cha ( bra , 123 ) , and spe clu alg ( see wei ( 123 ) for a rev ) .
mor rec , the has als bee muc int in non - par sem - sup lea alg - rit , suc as zhu et al .
( 123 ) , zho et al .
( 123 ) , bel et al .
( 123 ) , del et al .
( 123 ) , whi als fal in thi cat , and sha man ide wit man
sin thi is a lar cla of alg and one tha con to att att , it is wor to inv its lim .
sin the met sha man cha - act wit cla non - par sta lea alg suc as the k - nea nei and the par win reg and den est alg - rit ( dud and har , 123 ) whi hav bee sho to suf fro the so - cal cur of dim , it is log to inv the fol que : to wha ex - ten do the mod ker met suf fro a sim pro ? see ( har et al . , 123 ) for a rec and eas acc exp of the cur of dim for cla non - par met .
to exp thi que , we foc on alg in whi the lea fun is exp in ter of a lin com of ker fun app on the tra
f ( x ) = b +
whe we hav inc an opt bia ter b .
the set d = ( z12 , .
, zn ) con tra exa zi = xi for uns lea , zi = ( xi , yi ) for sup lea .
tar val yi can tak a spe mis val for sem - sup lea .
the is are sca cho by the lea alg usi d , and kd ( , ) is the ker - nel fun , a sym fun ( som exp to be pos sem - den ) , whi may be cho by tak int acc all the xis .
a typ ker fun is the gau ker ,
k ( u , v ) = e 123
wit the wid con how loc the ker is .
see ben et al .
( 123 ) to see tha lle , iso , lap eig and oth spe man lea alg suc as spe clu can be gen and wri in the for of eq .
123 for a tes poi x , but wit a dif ker ( tha is dat - dep , gen per a kin of nor of a dat - ind ker ) .
one obt the con of cla non - par est by app var the hyp - par tha con the loc of the est as n inc .
bas , the ker sho be all to bec mor and mor loc , so tha sta - tic bia goe to zer , but the eff num of exa inv in the est at x ( equ to k for the k - nea nei est ) sho inc as n inc , so tha sta var is als dri to 123
for a wid cla of ker reg est , the unc var and squ bia can be sho to be wri as fol ( har et al . , 123 ) :
exp err =
nd + c12 ,
wit c12 and c12 not dep on n nor on the dim d .
hen an opt ban - 123 , and the res gen err ( not cou - wid is cho pro to n ing the noi ) con in n12 / ( 123 ) , whi bec ver slo for lar d .
con for exa the inc in num of exa req to get the sam lev of err , in 123 dim ver d dim .
if n12 is the num of exa req to get a par lev of err , to get the sam lev of err in d dim req on the ord of n ( 123 ) / 123 exa , i . e . , the req num of exa is exp in d .
for the k - nea nei cla , a sim res is obt ( sna and ven ,
exp err = e +
whe e is the asy err , d is the dim and n the num of exa .
not how tha , if the dat dis is con on a low dim man , it is the man dim tha mat .
for exa , whe dat lie on
a smo low - dim man , the onl dim tha mat to a k - nea nei cla is the dim of the man , sin it onl use the euc dis bet the nea nei .
man uns and sem - sup lea alg rel on a gra wit one nod per exa , in whi nea exa are con wit an edg wei by the euc dis be - twe the .
if dat lie on a low - dim man the geo dis in thi gra app geo dis on the man ( ten et al . , 123 ) , as the num of exa inc .
how , con can be exp slo for
123 min num of bas req
in thi sec we pre res sho the num of req bas ( hen of tra - ing exa ) of a ker mac wit gau ker may gro lin wit the num of var of the tar fun tha mus be cap in ord to ach a giv err lev .
123 . 123 res for sup lea
the fol the hig the num of sig cha tha a gau ker mac can ach , whe it has k bas ( i . e . , k sup vec , or at lea k tra
the 123 ( the 123 of sch ( 123 ) ) .
let f : r r com by a gau ker mac ( eq .
123 ) wit k bas ( non - zer is ) .
the f has at mos 123 zer .
we wou lik to say som abo ker mac in rd , and we can do thi sim by con a str lin in rd and the num of sig cha tha the sol fun f can ach alo tha lin .
cor 123
sup tha the lea pro is suc tha in ord to ach a giv err lev for sam fro a dis p wit a gau ker mac ( eq .
123 ) , the f mus cha sig at lea 123 tim alo som str lin ( i . e . , in the cas of a cla , the dec sur mus be cro at lea 123 tim by tha str lin ) .
the the ker mac mus hav at lea k bas ( non - zer is ) .
a pro can be fou in ben et al .
( 123 ) .
exa 123
con the dec sur sho in gur 123 , whi is a sin fun .
one may tak adv of the glo reg to lea it wit few pa - ram ( thu req few exa ) , but wit an afn com of gau , cor 123 imp one wou nee at lea m 123 = 123 gau .
for mor com tas in hig dim , the com of the dec sur cou qui mak lea imp whe usi suc a loc ker met .
of cou , one onl see to app the dec sur s , and doe not nec nee to lea it per : cor 123 say not abo the exi of an eas - to - lea dec sur app s .
for ins , in the exa of
fig 123 : the dot lin cro the dec sur 123 tim : one thu nee at lea 123 gau to lea it wit an afn com of gau wit sam wid .
gur 123 , the dot lin cou tur out to be a goo eno est dec sur if mos sam wer far fro the tru dec sur , and thi lin can be obt wit onl two gau .
the abo the tel us tha in ord to rep a fun tha loc var a lot , in the sen tha its sig alo a str lin cha man tim , a gau ker mac req man tra exa and man com ele .
not tha it say not abo the dim of the inp spa , but we mig exp to hav to lea fun tha var mor whe the dat is hig - dim .
the nex the con thi sus in the spe cas of the d - bit par fun :
par : ( b12 , .
, bd ) ( 123 , 123 ) d 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 if pd
i=1 bi is eve
lea thi app sim fun wit gau cen on poi in ( 123 , 123 ) d is act dif , in the sen tha it req a num of gau exp in d ( for a xed gau wid ) .
not tha our cor 123 doe not app to the d - bit par fun , so it rep ano typ of loc var ( not alo a lin ) .
how , it is als pos to pro a ver str res for par .
the 123
let f ( x ) = b +p1
i=1 ik ( xi , x ) be an afn com of gau wit sam wid cen on poi xi xd .
if f sol the par pro , the the are at lea 123 non - zer coe i .
a pro can be fou in ben et al .
( 123 ) .
the bou in the 123 is tig , sin it is pos to sol the par pro wit exa 123 gau and a bia , for ins by usi a neg bia and put a
pos wei on eac exa sat par ( xi ) = 123
whe tra to lea the par fun , a svm may lea a fun tha loo lik the opp of the par on tes poi ( whi sti per opt on tra poi ) , but it is an art of the spe geo of the pro , and onl occ whe the tra set siz is app com to |xd = 123 ( see ben et al .
( 123 ) for det ) .
not tha if the cen of the gau are not res any to be poi in the tra set ( i . e . , a typ - 123 sha arc ) , it is pos to sol the par pro wit onl d + 123 gau and no bia ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
one may arg tha par is a sim dis toy pro of lit int .
but eve if we hav to res the ana to dis sam in ( 123 , 123 ) d for mat rea , the par fun can be ext to a smo fun on the ( 123 , 123 ) d hyp - cub dep onl on the con sum b12 + .
the 123 is thu a bas to arg tha the num of gau nee to lea a fun wit man var in a con spa may sca lin wit the num of the var , and thu pos exp in the dim .
123 . 123 res for sem - sup lea
in thi sec we foc on alg of the typ des in rec pap ( zhu et al . , 123 , zho et al . , 123 , bel et al . , 123 , del et al . , 123 ) , whi are gra - bas , non - par , sem - sup lea alg .
not tha tra svm ( joa , 123 ) , whi are ano cla of sem - sup alg , are alr sub to the lim of cor 123
the gra - bas alg we con - sid her can be see as min the fol cos fun , as sho in del et al .
( 123 ) :
c ( y ) = k yl ylk + y l y + k y k12
wit y = ( y12 , .
, yn ) the est lab on bot lab and unl dat , and l the ( un - nor ) gra lap mat , der thr l = d12 / 123 d12 / 123 fro a ker fun k bet poi suc tha the gra mat w , wit wij = k ( xi , xj ) , cor to the wei of the edg in the gra , and d is a dia
mat con in - deg : dii = pj wij .
her , yl = ( y12 , .
, yl ) is the vec
of est lab on the l lab exa , who kno lab are giv by yl = ( y12 , .
, yl ) , and one may con yl = yl as in zhu et al .
( 123 ) by let 123
we den a reg wit con lab as a con sub of the gra whe all nod xi hav the sam est lab ( sig of yi ) , and suc tha no oth nod can be add whi kee the pro .
min of the cos cri of eq .
123 can als be see as a lab pro alg , i . e . , lab are spr aro lab exa , wit nea bei den by the str of the gra , i . e . , by the ker .
an int vie of lab pro sug tha a reg of the man nea a lab ( e . g . , pos ) exa wil be ent lab pos , as the exa spr its inu by pro on the gra rep the und man .
thu , the num of reg wit con lab sho be on the sam ord as ( or les tha ) the num of lab exa .
thi is eas to see in the cas of a spa gra mat w .
we den a reg wit con lab as a con sub of the gra whe all nod xi hav the sam
est lab ( sig of yi ) , and suc tha no oth nod can be add whi kee the pro .
the fol pro the hol ( not tha it is als tru , but tri , whe w den a ful con gra ) .
pro 123
aft run a lab pro alg min the cos of eq .
123 , the num of reg wit con est lab is les tha ( or equ to ) the num of lab exa .
a pro can be fou in ben et al .
( 123 ) .
the con is tha we wil nee at lea as man lab exa as the are var in the cla , as one mov by sma ste in the nei gra fro one con reg of sam lab to an - oth .
aga we see the sam typ of non - par lea alg wit a loc ker , her in the cas of sem - sup lea : we may nee abo as man la - bel exa as the are var , eve tho an arb lar num of the var cou hav bee cha mor efc tha by the enu .
123 smo ver loc : cur of dim
con a gau svm and how tha est cha as one var , the hyp - par of the gau ker .
for lar one wou exp the est fun to be ver smo , whe for sma one wou exp the est fun to be ver loc , in the sen dis ear : the nea nei of x hav dom inu in the sha of the pre at x .
the fol pro tel us wha hap whe is lar , or whe we con -
sid wha a bal who rad is sma com to .
pro 123
for the gau ker cla , as inc and bec lar com wit the dia of the dat , wit the sma sph con the dat
the dec sur bec lin ifp i = 123 ( e . g . , for svm ) , or els the nor
vec of the dec sur bec a lin com of two sph sur nor vec , wit eac sph cen on a wei ave of the exa of the cor cla .
a pro can be fou in ben et al .
( 123 ) .
not tha wit thi pro we see cle tha whe bec lar , a ker cla bec non - loc ( it app a lin cla ) .
how , thi non - loc is at the pri of con the dec sur to be ver smo , mak it dif to mod hig var dec sur .
thi is the ess of the tra - off bet smo and loc in man sim non - par mod ( inc the cla one suc as k - nea - nei and par win alg ) .
now con in wha sen a gau ker mac is loc ( thi abo sma ) .
con a tes poi x tha is nea the dec sur .
we cla tha the ori of the dec sur is dom by the nei xi of x in the tra set , mak the pre loc in its der .
if we con the i xed ( i . e . , ign the dep on the tra xis ) , the it is obv tha the pre f ( x ) is dom by the nea nei xi of x , sin k ( x , xi ) 123 qui whe ||x xi| / bec lar .
how , the i can be inu by all the xjs .
the fol pro ski tha iss by loo at the rst der of f .
fig 123 : for loc man lea alg suc as lle , iso and ker pca , the man tan pla at x is in the spa of the dif vec bet tes poi x and its nei xi in the tra set .
thi mak the alg sen to the cur of dim , whe the man is hig - dim and not ver at .
pro 123
for the gau ker cla , the nor of the tan of the dec sur at x is con to app lie in the spa of the vec ( x xi ) wit ||x xi| not lar com to and xi in the tra set .
ske of the pro
a poi x of the dec sur is
the est is f ( x ) =pi ik ( x , xi ) .
the nor vec of the tan pla at
123 k ( x , xi ) .
eac ter is a vec pro to the dif vec xix .
thi sum is dom by the ter wit ||x xi| not lar com to .
we are thu lef wit f ( x ) app in the spa of the dif vec x xi wit xi a nea nei of x .
the i bei onl sca , the onl inu the wei of eac nei xi in tha lin com .
hen alt f ( x ) can be inu by xi far fro x , the dec sur nea x has a nor vec tha is con to app lie in the spa of the vec x xi wit xi nea x .
q . e . d .
the con of f ( x )
x bei in the spa of the vec x xi for nei xi of x is not str if the man of int ( e . g . , the reg of the dec sur wit hig den ) has low dim .
ind if tha dim is sma or equ to the num of dom nei , the the is no con at all .
how - eve , whe mod com dep inv man fac of var , the reg of int may hav ver hig dim ( e . g . , con the eff of var tha hav arb lar dim , suc as cha in clu , bac , etc
ima ) .
for suc a com hig - var tar fun , we als nee a ver loc pre ( sma ) in ord to acc rep all the des var .
wit a sma , the num of dom nei wil be sma com to the dim of the man of int , mak thi loc in the der a str con , and all the fol cur of dim arg .
thi not of loc in the sen of the der all us to den a bal aro eac tes poi x , con nei tha hav a dom inu on f ( x ) smo wit tha bal con the dec sur to be app eit lin ( cas of svm ) or a par qua for ( the dec sur nor vec is a lin com of two vec den by the cen of mas of exa of eac cla ) .
let n be the num of suc bal nec to cov the reg whe the val of the est is des ( e . g . , nea the tar dec sur , in the cas of cla pro ) .
let k be the sma num suc tha one nee at lea k exa in eac bal to rea err lev .
the num of exa thu req is kn .
to see tha n can be exp in som dim , con the max rad r of all the bal and the rad r of .
if has int dim d , the n cou be as lar as the num of rad - r bal tha can til a d - dim man
of rad r , whi is on the ord of ( cid : 123 ) r
in ben et al .
( 123 ) we pre sim res tha app to uns lea - ing alg suc as non - par man lea alg ( row and sau , 123 , ten et al . , 123 , sch et al . , 123 , bel and niy , 123 ) .
we nd tha whe the und man var a lot in the sen of hav hig cur - tur in man pla , the a lar num of exa is req .
not tha the tan pla of the man is den by the der of the ker mac fun f , for suc alg .
the cor res is tha the man tan pla at x is dom by ter ass wit the nea nei of x in the tra set ( mor pre it is con to be in the spa of the vec x xi , wit xi a nei of x ) .
thi ide is ill in gur 123
in the cas of gra - bas man lea alg suc as lle and iso , the dom of nea exa is per ( i . e . , the der is str in the spa of the dif vec wit the nei ) , bec the ker im - pli in the alg tak val 123 for the non - nei .
wit suc loc man lea alg , one nee to cov the man wit sma eno lin pat wit at lea d + 123 exa per pat ( whe d is the dim of the man ) .
thi arg was pre int in ben and mon ( 123 ) to des the lim of nei - bas man lea alg .
an exa tha ill tha man int man can hav hig cur is tha of tra of hig - con ima , sho in gur 123
the sam arg app to the oth geo inv of ima of obj .
123 dee arc
the ana in the pre sec poi to the dif of lea hig - var fun .
the are fun wit a lar num of var ( twi and tur ) in the dom of int , e . g . , the wou req a lar num of pie to be wel - rep by a pie - lin app .
sin the num of pie can be
fig 123 : the man of tra of a hig - con ima has hig cur .
a smo man is obt by con tha an ima is a sam on a dis gri of an int fun ove a two - dim spa .
the tan vec for tra is thu a tan ima , and it has hig val onl on the edg of the ink .
the tan pla for an ima tra by onl one pix loo sim but cha abr sin the edg are als shi by one pix .
hen the two tan pla are alm ort , and the man has hig cur , whi is bad for loc lea met , whi mus cov the man wit man sma lin pat to cor cap its sha .
mad to gro exp wit the num of inp var , thi pro is dir con wit the wel - kno cur of dim for cla non - par lea alg ( for reg , cla and den est ) .
if the sha of all the pie are unr , one nee eno exa for eac pie in ord to gen pro .
how , if the sha are rel and can be pre fro eac oth , non - loc lea alg hav the pot to gen to pie not cov by the tra set .
suc abi wou see nec for lea in com dom suc as in the ai - set .
one way to rep a hig - var fun com ( wit few par ) is thr the com of man non - lin .
suc mul com of non - lin app to gra non - loc pro to the est , in the sen tha the val of f ( x ) or f ( x ) can be str dep on tra exa far fro xi whi at the sam tim all to cap a lar num of var .
we hav al - rea dis par and oth exa ( sec 123 ) tha str sug tha the lea of mor abs fun is muc mor efc whe it is don seq , by com pre lea con .
whe the rep of a con re - qui an exp num of ele , ( e . g . , wit a sha cir ) , the num of
tra exa req to lea the con may als be imp .
gau pro , svm , log - lin mod , gra - bas man lea and gra - bas sem - sup lea alg can all be see as sha arc - tur .
alt mul - lay neu net wit man lay can rep dee cir - cui , tra dee net has alw bee see as som of a cha .
unt ver rec , emp stu oft fou tha dee net gen per no bet , and oft wor , tha neu net wit one or two hid lay ( tes , 123 ) .
a not exc to thi is the con neu net arc ( le - cun et al . , 123 , lec et al . , 123 ) dis in the nex sec , tha has a spa con - nec fro lay to lay .
des its imp , the top of dee net tra has bee som neg by the res com .
how , a pro new met rec pro by hin et al .
( 123 ) is cau a res of int in
a com exp for the dif of dee net lea is the pre of loc min or pla in the los fun .
gra - bas opt met - ods tha sta fro ran ini con app to oft get tra in poo loc min or pla .
the pro see par dir for nar net ( wit few hid uni or wit a bot ) and for net wit man sym ( i . e . , ful - con net in whi hid uni are exc ) .
the sol re - cen int by hin et al .
( 123 ) for tra dee lay net is bas on a gre , lay - wis uns lea pha .
the uns lea pha pro an ini con of the par wit whi a gra - bas sup - vis lea pha is ini .
the mai ide of the uns pha is to pai eac fee - for lay wit a fee - bac lay tha att to rec the inp of the lay fro its out .
thi rec cri gua tha mos of the inf con in the inp is pre in the out of the lay .
the res arc is a so - cal dee bel net ( dbn ) .
aft the ini uns tra of eac fee - for / fee - bac pai , the fee - for hal of the net is ren usi a gra - des bas sup met ( bac - pro ) .
thi tra str hol gre pro as a pri to bre thr the pro of tra dee net .
upp lay of a dbn are sup to rep mor abs con tha exp the inp obs x , whe low lay ext low - lev fea fro x .
low lay lea sim con rst , and hig lay bui on the to lea mor abs con .
thi str has not yet bee muc exp in mac lea , but it is at the bas of the gre lay - wis con lea alg for dbn .
mor pre , eac lay is tra in an uns way so as to cap the mai fea of the dis it see as inp .
it pro an int rep for its inp tha can be use as inp for the nex lay .
in a dbn , eac lay is tra as a res bol mac ( teh and hin , 123 ) usi the con div ( hin , 123 ) app of the log - lik gra .
the out of eac lay ( i . e . , hid uni ) con a fac and dis rep - res tha est cau for the inp of the lay .
aft the lay hav bee thu ini , a nal out lay is add on top of the net ( e . g . , pre the cla pro ) , and the who dee net is ne - tun by a gra - bas opt of the pre err .
the onl dif wit an ord mul - lay neu net res in the ini of the par , whi is not ran , but
is per thr uns tra of eac lay in a seq fas .
exp hav bee per on the mni and oth dat to try to un - der why the dee bel net are doi muc bet tha eit sha net or dee net wit ran ini .
the res are rep and dis in ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
sev con can be dra fro the exp - ime , amo whi the fol , of par int her :
sim res can be obt by tra eac lay as an aut - ass in - ste of a res bol mac , sug tha a rat gen pri - cip has bee dis .
tes cla err is sig imp wit suc gre lay - wis uns ini ove eit a sha net or a dee net wit the sam arc but wit ran ini .
in all cas man pos hid lay siz wer tri , and sel bas on val err .
whe usi a gre lay - wis str tha is sup ins of uns - vis , the res are not as goo , pro bec it is too gre : uns fea lea ext mor inf tha str nec for the pre - tio tas , whe gre sup fea lea ( gre bec it doe not tak int acc tha the wil be mor lay lat ) ext les inf tha nec , whi pre scu eff to imp by add lay .
the gre lay - wis uns str hel gen mos be -
cau it hel the sup opt to get sta nea a bet sol .
123 exp wit vis pat rec
one ess que whe des a lea arc is how to rep in - var .
whi inv pro are cru to any lea tas , it is par app in vis pat rec .
in thi sec we con sev exp in han rec and obj rec to ill the rel adv and dis of ker met , sha arc , and dee arc .
123 rep inv
the exa of gur 123 sho tha the man con all tra ver of a cha ima has hig cur .
bec the man is hig var , a cla tha is inv to tra ( i . e . , tha pro a con out whe the inp mov on the man , but cha whe the inp mov to ano cla man ) nee to com a hig var fun .
as we sho in the pre sec , tem - bas met are ine at rep hig - var fun .
the num of suc var may inc exp wit the dim of the man whe the inp den con .
tha dim is the num of dim alo whi sam wit a cat can var .
we wil now des two set of res wit vis pat rec .
the rst par is a sur of res obt wit sha and dee arc on the mni
dat , whi con iso han dig .
the sec par ana res of exp wit the nor dat , whi con obj fro ve dif gen cat , pla on uni or clu bac .
for vis pat rec , typ - 123 arc hav tro han the wid var of app in pix ima tha res fro var in pos , ill - nat , and clu , unl an imp lar num of tem ( e . g . , sup vec ) are use .
ad - hoc pre and fea ext can , of cou , be use to mit the pro , but at the exp of hum lab .
her , we wil con on met tha dea wit raw pix dat and tha int fea ext as par of the lea pro .
123 con net
con net are mul - lay arc in whi the suc lay are de - sig to lea pro hig - lev fea , unt the las lay whi rep cat .
all the lay are tra sim to min an ove los fun - tio .
unl wit mos oth mod of cla and pat rec , the is no dis fea ext and cla in a con net .
all the lay are sim in nat and tra fro dat in an int fas .
the bas mod of a con net is com of a fea det lay fol by a fea poo lay .
a typ con net is com of one , two or thr suc det / poo mod in ser , fol by a cla mod .
the inp sta ( and out sta ) of eac lay can be see as a ser of two - dim ret arr cal fea map .
at lay i , the val cij pro by the j - th fea det lay at pos ( x , y ) in the j - th fea map is com by app a ser of con ker wij to fea map in the pre lay ( wit ind i 123 ) , and pas the res thr a hyp tan
cij = tan bij +xk
whe pi and qi are the wid and hei of the con ker .
the con ker par wij and the bia bij are sub to lea .
a fea det lay can be see as a ban of con lte fol by a poi - wis non - lin .
eac lte det a par fea at eve loc on the inp .
hen spa tra the inp of a fea det lay wil tra the out but lea it oth unc .
tra inv is nor bui - in by con - ing wij = wij q for all p , p , q , q , i . e . , the sam par are use at dif
a fea poo lay has the sam num of fea in the map as the fea det lay tha pre it .
eac val in a sub map is the ave ( or the max ) of the val in a loc nei in the cor fea map in the pre lay .
tha ave or max is add to a tra bia , mul by a tra coe , and the res is pas thr a non - lin ( e . g . , the tan fun ) .
the win are ste wit ove .
the the map of a fea
fig 123 : the arc of the con net use for the nor exp .
the inp is an ima pai , the sys ext 123 fea map of siz 123 123 , 123 map of 123 123 , 123 map of 123 123 , 123 map of 123 123 , and 123 dim fea vec .
the fea vec is the tra int a 123 - dim vec in the las lay to com the dis wit tar vec .
poo lay are les tha the res of the map in the pre lay .
the rol of the poo lay is bui a rep tha is inv to sma var of the pos of fea in the inp .
alt lay of fea det and fea poo can ext fea fro inc lar rec eld , wit inc rob to irr var of the inp .
the las mod of a con net is gen a one - or two - lay neu net .
tra a con net can be per wit sto ( on - lin ) gra des , com the gra wit a var of the bac - pro met .
whi con net are dee ( gen 123 to 123 lay of non - lin fun ) , the do not see to suf fro the con pro tha pla dee ful - con neu net .
whi the is no den exp for thi , we sus tha thi phe is lin to the hea con par , as wel as to the asy of
con net are bei use com in sev wid - dep sys - tem for rea ban che ( lec et al . , 123 ) , rec han for tab - pc , and for det fac , peo , and obj in vid in rea tim .
123 the les fro mni
mni is a dat of han dig wit 123 , 123 tra sam and 123 , 123 tes sam .
dig ima hav bee siz - nor so as to t wit a 123 123 pix win , and cen by cen of mas in a 123 123 eld .
wit thi pro , the pos of the cha var sli fro one sam to ano .
num aut hav rep res on mni , all pre com amo met .
a sma sub of rel res is lis in tab 123
not all goo res on mni are lis in the tab .
in par , res obt wit des ima or wit
han - des fea ext wer lef out .
res are rep wit thr con net arc : len - 123 , len - 123 , and the sub con net of ( sim et al . , 123 ) .
the inp eld is a 123 123 pix map in whi the 123 123 ima are cen .
in len - 123 ( lec et al . , 123 ) , the rst fea det lay pro 123 fea map of siz 123 123 usi 123 123 con ker .
the rst fea poo lay pro 123 123 123 fea map thr a 123 123 sub rat and 123 123 rec eld .
the sec fea det lay pro 123 fea map of siz 123 123 usi 123 123 con ker , and is fol by a poo lay wit 123 123 sub .
the nex lay pro 123 fea map of siz 123 123 usi 123 123 con ker .
the las lay pro 123 fea map ( one per out cat ) .
len - 123 has a ver sim arc , but the num of fea map at eac lev are muc lar : 123 fea map in the rst lay , 123 in the thi lay , and 123 fea map in the pen
the con net in ( sim et al . , 123 ) is som sim to the ori one in ( lec et al . , 123 ) in tha the is no sep con and sub lay .
eac lay com a con wit a sub res ( the is no fea poo ope ) .
the sim con net has 123 fea at the rst lay , wit 123 by 123 ker and 123 by 123 sub , 123 fea at the sec lay , als wit 123 by 123 ker and 123 by 123 sub , 123 fea at the thi lay wit 123 by 123 ker , and 123 out uni .
the mni sam are hig var bec of wri sty , but hav lit var due to pos and sca .
hen , it is a dat tha is par fav for tem - bas met .
yet , the err rat yie by sup vec mac wit gau ker ( 123 err ) is onl mar bet tha tha of a con sma neu net wit a sin hid lay of 123 hid uni ( 123 as rep by ( sim et al . , 123 ) ) , and sim to the res obt wit a 123 - lay neu net as rep in ( hin et al . , 123 ) ( 123 err ) .
the bes res on the ori mni set wit a kno fre met was rep in ( hin et al . , 123 ) ( 123 err ) , usi a dee bel net kno - fre met , we mea a met tha has no pri kno of the pic nat of the sig .
tho met wou pro exa the sam res if the inp pix wer scr wit a xed per .
con net use the pic nat of the dat , and the inv of cat - gor to sma geo dis .
it is a bro ( low com ) pri , whi can be spe com ( wit a sho pie of cod ) .
yet it bri abo a con red of the ens of fun tha can be lea .
the bes con net on the unm mni set is len - 123 , whi yie a rec 123 .
as wit hin res , thi res was obt by ini the lte in the rst lay us - ing an uns alg , pri to tra wit bac - pro ( ran et al . , 123 ) .
the sam len - 123 tra pur sup fro ran ini yie 123 err .
a sma con net , len - 123 yie 123 .
the sam net was rep to yie 123 in ( lec et al . , 123 ) wit a sma num of tra
whe the tra set is aug wit ela dis ver of the tra sam , the tes err rat ( on the ori , non - dis tes set ) dro sig .
a con 123 - lay neu net wit 123 hid uni yie 123 err ( sim
123 - lay nn , 123 hid .
uni 123 - lay nn , 123 uni svm , gau ker uns sta rbm + bac con net len - 123 con net len - 123 con .
len - 123 + uns .
lea tra set aug wit afn dis 123 - lay nn , 123 hid .
uni vir svm , deg .
123 pol tra set aug wit ela dis 123 - lay nn , 123 hid .
uni svm gau ker .
+ on - lin tra sha con fea + ela k - nn con .
len - 123 con .
len - 123 + uns .
lea
sim et al .
123 hin et al .
123 cor et al .
123 hin et al
ran et al .
123 ran et al .
123 ran et al
sim et al .
123 dec et al .
123 sim et al
sim et al .
123 thi vol , cha 123 bel et al .
123 sim et al .
123 ran et al .
123 ran et al
tab 123 : tes err rat of var lea mod on the mni dat .
man res obt wit des ima or han - des fea ext wer lef
et al . , 123 ) .
whi svm sli out 123 - lay neu net on the und set , the adv all but dis on the dis set .
in thi vol , loo et al .
rep 123 err wit a gau svm and a sam sel pro .
the num of sup vec in the res svm is con lar tha 123
con net app to the ela dis set ach bet 123 and 123 err , dep on the arc , the los fun , and the num of tra epo .
sim et al .
( 123 ) rep 123 wit a sub con net .
ran et al .
( 123 ) rep 123 usi len - 123 wit ran ini , and 123 usi len - 123 wit uns pre - tra of the rst lay .
thi is the bes err rat eve rep on the ori mni tes set .
hen a dee net , wit sma dos of pri kno emb in the arc - tec , com wit a lea alg tha can dea wit mil of exa , goe a lon way tow imp per .
not onl do dee net yie low err rat , the are fas to run and fas to tra on lar dat tha the bes
fig 123 : the 123 tes obj in the nor - uni nor set .
the tes obj are uns by the tra sys .
123 the les fro nor
whi mni is a use ben , its ima are sim eno to all a glo tem mat sch to per wel .
nat ima of 123 obj wit bac - gro clu are con mor cha .
nor ( lec et al . , 123 ) is a pub ava dat of obj ima fro 123 gen cat .
it con im - age of 123 dif toy , wit 123 toy in eac of the 123 gen cat : fou - leg ani , hum gur , air , tru , and car .
the 123 obj are spl int a tra set wit 123 obj , and a tes set wit the rem 123 obj ( see exa in fig 123 ) .
eac obj is cap by a ste cam pai in 123 dif vie ( 123 ele , 123 azi ) und 123 dif ill .
two dat der fro nor are use .
the rst dat , cal the nor - uni set , are ima of a sin obj wit a nor siz pla at the cen of ima wit uni bac .
the tra set has 123 , 123 ste ima pai of siz 123 , and ano 123 , 123 for tes ( fro dif obj ins ) .
the sec set , the jit - clu set , con obj wit ran per
pos , sca , in - pla rot , bri , and con .
the obj are pla on hig clu bac and oth nor obj pla on the per .
a 123 - th cat of ima is inc : bac ima con no obj .
som exa ima of thi set are sho in gur 123
eac ima in the jit - clu set is ran per so tha the obj are at dif pos ( ( - 123 , +12 ) pix hor and ver ) , sca ( rat in ( 123 , 123 ) ) , ima - pla ang ( ( 123 , 123 ) ) , bri ( ( - 123 , 123 ) shi of gra sca ) , and con ( ( 123 , 123 ) gai ) .
the cen obj cou be occ by the ran pla dis .
to gen the tra set , eac ima was per wit 123 dif con of the abo par , whi mak up 123 , 123 ima pai of siz 123
the tes set has 123 dra of per per ima , and con 123 , 123 pai .
in the nor dat , the onl use and rel clu is the sha of the obj , whi all the oth par tha aff the app are sub to var , or are des to con no use clu .
par tha are sub to var are : vie ang ( pos ) , lig con .
pot clu who imp was eli - nat inc : col ( all ima are gra ) , and obj tex .
for spe obj rec tas , the col and tex inf may be hel , but for gen rec tas the col and tex inf are dis rat tha use clu .
by pre nat var and eli irr clu and sys - ati bia , nor can ser as a ben dat in whi no hid reg tha wou unf adv som met ove oth can be use .
a six - lay net dub len - 123 , sho in gur 123 , was use in the exp wit the nor dat rep her .
the arc is ess ide to tha of len - 123 and len - 123 , exc of the siz of the fea map .
the inp is a pai of 123 gra sca ima .
the rst fea det lay use twe 123 con ker to gen 123 fea map of siz 123 123
the rst 123 map tak inp fro the lef ima , the nex two fro the rig ima , and the las 123 fro bot .
the are 123 tra par in thi lay .
the rst fea poo lay use a 123 sub , to pro 123 fea map of siz 123 123
the sec fea det lay use 123 con ker of siz 123 to out 123 fea map of siz 123 123
eac map tak inp fro 123 mon map and 123 bin map , eac wit a dif com , as sho in gur 123
thi con is use to com fea fro the ste ima pai .
thi lay con 123 , 123 tra par .
the nex poo lay use a 123 sub whi out 123 fea map of siz 123 123
the nex lay has 123 123 con ker to pro 123 fea map of siz 123 123 , and the las lay has 123 uni .
in the exp , we als rep res usi a hyb met , whi con in tra the con net in the con way , cho off the las lay , and tra a gau ker svm on the out of the pen lay .
man of the res in thi sec wer pre rep in ( hua and lec , 123 ) .
123 res on the nor - uni set
tab 123 sho the res on the sma nor dat wit uni bac .
thi dat sim a sce in whi obj can be per seg fro the bac , and is the rat unr .
fra of s . v .
123 123 123
ste siz =
123 - 123
tab 123 : tes err rat and tra / tes tim on the nor - uni dat of dif met .
the tim is nor to hyp 123 sin cpu .
the con net hav mul res wit dif tra pas due to
the svm is com of ve bin svm tha are tra to cla one obj cat aga all oth cat .
the con net tra on thi set has a sma pen lay wit 123 out .
the inp fea to the svm of the hyb sys are acc 123 - dim vec .
the tim gur in tab 123 rep the cpu tim on a cti 123 cpu .
the res of the con net tra aft 123 , 123 , 123 pas are lis in the tab .
the net is sli ove - tra wit mor tha 123 pas ( no reg was use in the exp ) .
the svm in the hyb sys is tra ove the fea ext fro the net tra wit 123 pas .
the imp of the com is mar ove the con net alo .
des the rel sim of the tas ( no pos var , uni bac - gro , onl 123 typ of ill ) , the svm per rat poo .
int , it req a ver lar amo of cpu tim for tra and tes .
the con net rea the sam err rat as the svm wit 123 tim les tra tim .
fur tra hal the err rat .
it is int tha des its dee arc , its non - con los , the tot abs of exp reg , and a lac of tig gen - ali bou , the con net is bot bet and fas tha an svm .
123 res on the jit - clu set
the res on thi set are sho in tab 123
to cla the 123 cat , 123 bin ( one vs .
oth ) svm sub - cla are tra ind , eac wit the ful set of 123 , 123 sam .
the tra sam are raw 123 123 pix ima pai tur int a 123 , 123 - dim inp vec , wit val bet 123 to 123
svm hav rel few fre par to tun pri to lea .
in the cas of gau ker , one can cho ( gau ker siz ) and c ( pen coe ) tha yie bes res by gri tun .
a rat dis tes err rat of 123 is obt on thi set , as sho in the rst col of tab 123
the tra tim dep
123 123 123 123
ste siz =
123 - 123
tab 123 : tes err rat and tra / tes tim on the jit - clu dat of dif met .
the tim is nor to hyp 123 sin cpu .
the con net hav mul res wit dif tra pas due to its ite
hea on the val of for gau ker svm .
the exp are run on a 123 - cpu ( 123 ) clu , and the tim inf is nor int a hyp 123 sin cpu to mak the mea mea .
for the con net len - 123 , we lis res aft dif num of pas ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) and the tim inf .
the tes err rat att out at 123 aft abo 123 pas .
no sig ove - tra was obs , and no ear sto was per .
one par con the tra pro mus be heu cho - sen : the glo ste siz of the sto gra pro .
bes res are obt by ado a sch in whi thi ste siz is pro dec .
a ful pro of one dat sam thr the net req abo 123 mil - lio mul - add ope .
par the con net is rel sim sin mul con can be per sim , and eac con can be per ind on sub - reg of the lay .
the con net are com ver efc .
the tra tim sca sub wit dat siz in pra , and the tes can be don in rea - tim at a rat of a few fra per
the thi col sho the res of a hyb sys in whi the las lay of the con net was rep by a gau svm aft tra .
the tra and tes fea are ext wit the con net tra aft 123 pas .
the pen lay of the net has 123 out , the the fea are 123 - dim .
the svm app on fea ext fro the con net yie an err rat of 123 , a sig imp ove eit met alo .
by inc - rat a lea fea ext int the ker fun , the svm was ind abl to lev bot the abi to use low - lev spa loc fea and at the sam tim kee all the adv of a lar mar cla .
the poo per of svm wit gau ker on raw pix is not une - pec .
as we poi out in pre sec , a gau ker svm mer com - put mat sco ( bas on euc dis ) bet the inc pat and
tem fro the tra set .
thi glo tem mat is ver sen to var - ati in reg , pos , and ill .
mor imp , mos of the pix in a nor ima are act on the bac clu , rat tha on the obj to be rec .
hen the tem mat sco are dom by irr var - tie of the bac .
thi poi to a cru dec of sta ker met : the ina to sel rel inp fea , and ign irr one .
svm hav pre adv pro by gen bou , cap con - tro thr mar max , a con los fun , and uni app pro .
by con , con net hav no gen bou ( bey the mos gen vc bou ) , no exp reg , a hig non - con los fun - tio , and no cla to uni .
yet the exp res wit nor sho tha con net are mor acc tha gau svm by a fac of 123 , fas to tra by a lar fac ( 123 to 123 ) , and fas to run by a fac of 123
thi wor was mot by our req for lea alg tha cou ad - dre the cha of ai , whi inc sta sca , com sca - bil and hum - lab sca .
bec the set of tas inv in ai is wid div , eng a sep sol for eac tas see imp .
we hav exp man lim of ker mac and oth sha arc .
suc arc are ine for rep com , hig - var fun , whi we bel are nec for ai - rel tas suc as inv per .
one lim was bas on the wel - kno dep - bre tra in cir de - sig has ( 123 ) .
thi sug tha man fun can be muc mor efc rep wit dee arc , oft wit a mod num of lev ( e . g . , log - ari in the num of inp ) .
the sec lim reg mat con of the cur of dim - sio .
it app to loc ker suc as the gau ker , in whi k ( x , xi ) can be see as a tem mat .
it tel us tha arc rel on loc ker can be ver ine at rep fun tha hav man var , i . e . , fun - tio tha are not glo smo ( but may sti be loc smo ) .
ind , it cou be arg tha ker mac are lit mor tha sou - up tem mat .
a thi lim per to the com cos of lea .
in the , the con - vex opt ass wit ker mac lea yie efc opt and rep res .
unf , mos cur alg are ( at lea ) qua in the num of exa .
thi ess pre the app to ver lar - sca dat for whi lin - or sub - tim alg are req ( par for on - lin lea ) .
thi pro is som mit by rec pro wit on - lin alg for ker mac ( e . g . , see ( bor et al . , 123 ) ) , but the rem the que of the inc in the num of sup vec as the num of exa
a fou and mos ser lim , whi fol fro the rst ( sha ) and sec ( loc ) per to ine in rep .
sha arc and loc est are sim too ine ( in ter of req num of exa and
ada com ) to rep man abs fun of int .
ult , thi mak the una if our goa is to lea the ai - set .
we do not mea to sug tha ker mac hav no pla in ai .
for exa , our res sug tha com - bin a dee arc wit a ker mac tha tak the hig - lev lea rep as inp can be qui pow .
lea the tra fro pix to hig - lev fea bef app an svm is in fac a way to lea the ker .
we do sug tha mac lea res aim at the ai pro sho inv - gat arc tha do not hav the rep lim of ker mac , and dee arc are by den not sha and usu not loc as wel .
unt rec , man bel tha tra dee arc was too dif an opt pro .
how , at lea two dif app hav wor wel in tra suc arc : sim gra des app to con net - wor ( lec et al . , 123 , lec et al . , 123 ) ( for sig and ima ) , and mor rec , lay - by - lay uns lea fol by gra des ( hin et al . , 123 , ben et al . , 123 , ran et al . , 123 ) .
res on dee arc is in its inf , and bet lea alg for dee arc rem to be dis - cov .
tak a lar per on the obj of dis lea pri tha can lea to ai has bee a gui per of thi wor .
we hop to hav hel ins oth to see a sol to the pro of sca mac lea tow ai .
we tha geo hin for our num dis wit him and the neu com - put and ada per pro of the can ins of adv re - sea for mak the pos .
we wis to tha fu - jie hua for con muc of the exp in sec 123 , and han - pet gra and eri cos and the col - ora for let us use the par imp of svm .
we tha leo bot for his pat and for hel com .
we tha sum cho , oli del , rai had , hug lar , nic le rou , mar ran , for hel us to mak pro tow the ide pre her .
thi pro was sup by nsf gra no .
123 and no .
123 , by nse , the can res cha , and the mit nce .
