we exp an ori str for bui dee net , bas on sta lay of den aut whi are tra loc to den cor ver of the inp .
the res alg is a str var on the sta of ord aut .
it is how sho on a ben of cla pro to yie sig low cla err , thu bri the per gap wit dee bel net ( dbn ) , and in sev cas sur - ing it .
hig lev rep lea in thi pur uns fas als hel boo the per of sub svm cla .
qua exp sho tha , con to ord - nar aut , den aut are abl to lea gab - lik edg det fro nat ima pat and lar str det fro dig ima .
thi wor cle est the val of usi a den cri as a tra uns obj to gui the lea of use hig lev rep .
dee lea , uns fea lea , dee bel net , aut ,
it has bee a lon hel bel in the eld of neu net res tha the com of sev lev of non wou be key to efc mod com rel bet var and to ach bet gen per on dif rec tas ( mcc et al . , 123 hin , 123 utg and str , 123 ) .
thi vie is mot in par by kno
c ( cid : 123 ) 123 pas vin , hug lar , isa laj , yos ben and pie - ant man .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
of the lay arc of reg of the hum bra suc as the vis cor , and in par by a bod of the arg in its fav ( has , 123 has and gol , 123 ben and lec , 123 ben , 123 ) .
yet , loo bac at the his of mul - lay neu net , the pro non - con opt has for a lon tim pre rea the exp ben ( ben et al . , 123 ben , 123 ) of goi bey one or two hid lay . 123 con muc of mac lea res has see pro in sha arc all for con opt , whi the dif pro of lea in dee net was lef dor .
the rec rev of int in suc dee arc is due to the dis of nov ap - pro ( hin et al . , 123 hin and sal , 123 ben et al . , 123 ran et al . , 123 lee et al . , 123 ) tha pro suc at lea the par .
sev alt tec - niq and ren hav bee sug sin the sem wor on dee bel net ( dbn ) by hin et al .
( 123 ) and hin and sal ( 123 ) .
all app how to bui on the sam pri tha we may sum as fol :
tra a dee net to dir opt onl the sup obj of int ( for ex - amp the log pro of cor cla ) by gra des , sta fro ran ini par , doe not wor ver wel .
wha wor muc bet is to ini use a loc uns cri to ( pre ) tra eac lay in tur , wit the goa of lea to pro a use hig - lev rep fro the low - lev rep out by the pre lay .
fro thi sta poi on , gra des on the sup obj lea to muc bet sol in ter of gen
dee lay net tra in thi fas hav bee sho emp to avo get stu in the kin of poo sol one typ rea wit onl ran ini .
see erh et al .
( 123 ) for an in dep emp stu and dis reg pos exp for the phe .
in add to the sup cri rel to the tas , wha app to be key is usi an add uns cri to gui the lea at eac lay .
in thi sen , the tec bea muc in com wit the sem - sup lea app , exc tha the are use eve in the sce whe all exa are lab , exp the inp par of the dat to reg , thu app bet min of gen err ( erh et al . , 123 ) .
the is yet no cle und of wha con goo rep for ini dee arc or wha exp uns cri may bes gui the lea .
we kno but a few alg tha wor wel for thi pur , beg wit res bol mac ( rbm ) ( hin et al . , 123 hin and sal , 123 lee et al . , 123 ) , and aut ( ben et al . , 123 ran et al . , 123 ) , but als sem - sup emb ( wes et al . , 123 ) and ker pca ( cho and sau , 123 ) .
it is wor men her tha rbm ( hin , 123 smo , 123 ) and bas cla aut are ver sim in the fun for , alt the int and the pro - ced use for tra the are qui dif .
mor spe , the det fun tha map fro inp to mea hid rep , det bel in sec 123 , is the sam for bot mod .
one imp dif is tha det aut con tha rea val
the is a not exc to thi in the mor spe con net arc of lec et al .
( 123 ) .
sta den aut
mea as the hid rep whe sto rbm sam a bin hid rep - tio fro tha mea .
how , aft the ini pre , the way lay of rbm are typ use in pra whe sta in a dee neu net is by pro the rea - val mea ( hin et al . , 123 hin and sal , 123 ) .
thi is mor in lin wit the det aut int .
not als tha rec err of an aut can be see as an app of the log - lik gra in an rbm , in a way tha is sim to the app - tio mad by usi the con div upd for rbm ( ben and del , 123 ) .
it is thu not sur tha ini a dee net by sta aut yie alm as goo a cla per as whe sta rbm ( ben et al . , 123 lar et al . , 123 ) .
but why is it onl alm as goo ? an ini mot of the res pre her was to nd a way to bri tha per gap .
wit the aut par in min , we beg an inq int the que of wha can sha a goo , use rep .
we wer loo for uns lea pri lik to lea to the lea of fea det tha det imp str in the inp pat .
sec 123 wal the rea alo the lin of our rea .
sta fro the sim int not of pre inf , we pre a gen for of the cla aut , bef hig its lim .
thi lea us in sec 123 to mot an alt den cri , and der the den aut mod , for whi we als giv a pos int geo int .
a clo loo at the con noi typ wil the all us to der a fur ext of the bas mod .
sec 123 dis rel pre wor and app .
sec 123 pre exp tha qua stu the fea det lea by a sin - lay den aut und var con .
sec 123 des exp wit mul - lay arc obt by sta den aut and com the cla per - man wit oth sta - of - the - art mod .
sec 123 is an att at tur sta ( den ) aut int pra gen mod , to all for a qua com of gen sam wit dbn .
sec 123 sum our ndi and con our wor .
we wil be usi the fol not thr the art :
ran var are wri in upp cas , for exa , x .
if x is a ran vec , the its jth com wil be not x j .
ord vec are wri in low bol .
for exa , a rea of a ran vec
x may be wri x .
vec are con col vec .
mat are wri in upp bol ( e . g . , w ) .
i den the ide mat .
the tra of a vec x or a mat w is wri xt or wt ( not x or w whi may be
use to ref to an ent dif vec or mat ) .
we use low cas p and q to den bot pro den fun or pro mas
fun acc to con .
let x and y two ran var wit mar pro p ( x ) and p ( y ) .
the joi
pro is wri p ( x , y ) and the con p ( x|y ) .
we may use the fol com sho whe una : p ( x ) for p ( x = x ) ; p ( x|y ) for p ( x|y = y ) ( den a con dis ) and p ( x|y ) for p ( x = x|y = y ) .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
f , g , h , wil be use for ord fun .
exp ( dis cas , p is pro mas ) : ep ( x ) ( f ( x ) ) = ( cid : 123 ) x p ( x = x ) f ( x ) .
exp ( con cas , p is pro den ) : ep ( x ) ( f ( x ) ) = r p ( x ) f ( x ) dx .
ent or dif ent : ih ( x ) = ih ( p ) = ep ( x ) ( log p ( x ) ) .
con ent : ih ( x|y ) = ep ( x , y ) ( log p ( x|y ) ) .
kul - lei div : idk ( pkq ) = ep ( x ) ( log p ( x ) cro - ent : ih ( pkq ) = ep ( x ) ( log ( x ) ) = ih ( p ) + idk ( pkq ) .
mut inf : i ( x;y ) = ih ( x ) ih ( x|y ) .
sig : s ( x ) = 123 ber dis wit mea : b ( ) .
by ext for vec var : x b ( ) mea
123 and s ( x ) = ( s ( x12 ) , .
, s ( xd ) ) t .
i , xi b ( i ) .
123 gen set
we con the typ sup lea set wit a tra set of n ( inp , tar ) pai dn = ( ( x ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) .
, ( x ( n ) , t ( n ) ) ) , tha we sup to be an i . i . d .
sam fro an unk dis q ( x , t ) wit cor mar q ( x ) and q ( t ) .
we den q12 ( x , t ) and q12 ( x ) the emp dis den by the sam in dn .
x is a d - dim ran vec ( typ in ird or in ( 123 , 123 ) d ) .
in thi wor we are pri con wit ndi a new , hig - lev rep y of x .
y is a d - dim ran vec ( typ in ird or in ( 123 , 123 ) d ) .
if d > d we wil tal of an ove - com rep , whe it wil be ter an und - com rep if d < d .
y may be lin to x by a det or sto map q ( y|x ) par by a vec of par q
wha mak a goo rep ? fro mut inf to aut
fro the out we can giv an ope den of a goo rep as one tha wil eve be use for add tas of int , in the sen tha it wil hel the sys qui ach hig per on tho tas tha if it had rst lea to for the rep - tio .
bas on the obj mea typ use to ass alg per , thi mig be phr as a goo rep is one tha wil yie a bet per cla .
fin cla - cat per wil ind typ be use to obj com alg .
how , if a les is to be lea fro the rec bre in dee net tra tec , it is tha the err sig fro a sin nar den cla tas sho not be the onl nor pri cri use to gui the lea of rep .
fir bec it has bee sho exp - tal tha beg by opt an uns cri , obl of the spe cla pro , can act gre hel in eve ach sup per for tha cla - tio pro .
sec it can be arg tha the cap of hum to qui bec pro in new tas bui on muc of wha the hav lea pri to bei fac wit tha tas .
in thi sec , we beg wit the sim not of ret inf and pro to for
int the tra aut par fro thi mor gen van poi .
sta den aut
123 ret inf abo the inp
we are int in lea a ( pos sto ) map fro inp x to a nov rep - tio y .
to mak thi mor pre , let us res our to par map q ( y|x ) = q ( y|x ) wit par q one nat cri tha we may exp any goo rep to mee , at lea to som deg , is to ret a sig amo of inf abo the inp .
it can be exp in inf - the ter as max the mut inf i ( x;y ) bet an inp ran var x and its hig lev rep y .
thi is the inf pri put for by lin
tha we wan to lea .
mut inf can be dec int an ent and a con ent ter in two dif way .
a rst pos dec is i ( x;y ) = ih ( y ) ih ( y|x ) whi lea bel and sej ( 123 ) to the inf app to ind com ana .
her we wil sta fro ano dec : i ( x;y ) = ih ( x ) ih ( x|y ) .
sin obs inp x com fro an unk dis q ( x ) on whi q has no inu , thi mak ih ( x ) an unk con .
thu the inf pri red to :
i ( x;y ) = arg
eq ( x , y ) ( log q ( x|y ) ) .
now for any dis p ( x|y ) we wil hav let us con a par dis p ( x|y ;q
eq ( x , y ) ( log p ( x|y ) ) eq ( x , y ) ( log q ( x|y ) ) as can eas be sho sta fro the pro tha for any two dis p and q we hav idk ( qkp ) 123 , and in par idk ( q ( x|y = y ) kp ( x|y = y ) ) 123
) , par by q
, and the fol
eq ( x , y ;q ) ( log p ( x|y ;q
fro equ 123 , we see tha thi cor to max a low bou on ih ( x|y ) and thu on the mut inf .
we wou end up max the exa mut inf pro s . t .
q ( x|y ) = p ( x|y ;q if , as is don in inf ica , we fur res our to a det map fro x to y , tha is , rep y is to be com by a par fun y = fq ( x ) or equ q ( y|x ) = d ( y fq ( x ) ) ( whe d den dir - del ) , the thi opt can be wri :
eq ( x ) ( log p ( x|y = fq ( x ) ;q
thi aga cor to max a low bou on the mut inf .
sin q ( x ) is unk , but we hav sam fro it , the emp ave ove the tra
sam can be use ins as an unb est ( i . e . , rep eq ( x ) by eq1 ( x ) ) :
eq1 ( x ) ( log p ( x|y = fq ( x ) ;q
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
we wil see in the nex sec tha thi equ cor to the rec err cri
use to tra aut .
123 tra aut ( ae ) her we bri spe the tra aut ( ae ) 123 fra and its ter , bas on fq and p ( x|y ;q tat y is cal the enc .
its typ for is an afn map fol by a non :
tha tra an inp vec x int hid rep -
enc : the det map fq
) int abo .
fq ( x ) = s ( wx + b ) .
its par set is q = ( w , b ) , whe w is a d d wei mat and b is an off vec of dec : the res hid rep y is the map bac to a rec d - is cal the dec .
its typ dim vec z in inp spa , z = gq for is aga an afn map opt fol by a squ non - lin , tha is , eit
thi map gq
( y ) = wy + b or
wit app siz par q
( y ) = s ( wy + b ) ,
in gen z is not to be int as an exa rec of x , but rat in pro ter as the par ( typ the mea ) of a dis p ( x|z = z ) tha may gen x wit hig pro .
we hav thu com the spe of p ( x|y ;q ) fro the pre sec as p ( x|y = y ) = p ( x|z = gq ( y ) ) .
thi yie an ass rec err to be opt :
l ( x , z ) ( cid : 123 ) log p ( x|z ) .
com cho for p ( x|z ) and ass los fun l ( x , z ) inc : for rea - val x , tha is , x ird : x|z n ( z , s 123 ) , tha is , x j|z n ( z j , s 123 ) .
thi yie l ( x , z ) = l12 ( x , z ) = c ( s 123 ) kx zk1 whe c ( s 123 ) den a con tha dep onl on s 123 and tha can be ign for the opt .
thi is the squ err obj fou in mos tra aut .
in thi set , due to the gau int , it is mor nat not to use a squ non in the dec .
for bin x , tha is , x ( 123 , 123 ) d : x|z b ( z ) , tha is , x j|z b ( z j ) .
typ be use in the dec .
in thi cas , the dec nee to pro a z ( 123 , 123 ) d .
so a squ non suc as a thi yie l ( x , z ) = lih ( x , z ) = sig s wil j ( x j log j + ( 123 j ) log ( 123 j ) ) = ih ( b ( x ) kb ( z ) ) whi is ter the cro - ent los bec it is see as the cro - ent bet two ind mul ber , the rst wit mea x and the oth wit mea z .
thi los can als be use whe x is not str bin but rat x ( 123 , 123 ) d .
not : aut ( ae ) are als oft cal aut ( aa ) in the lit .
the sho aut ter was pre in thi wor , as we bel enc bet con the ide of pro a nov use rep .
sim , wha we cal sta aut enc ( sae ) has als bee cal sta aut ( saa ) .
sta den aut
not tha in the gen aut fra , we may use oth for of par fun - tio for the enc or dec , and oth sui cho of the los fun ( cor to a dif p ( x|z ) ) .
in par , we inv the use of a mor com enc fun in lar , erh , and vin ( 123 ) .
for the exp in the pre wor how , we wil res our to the two usu for det abo , tha is , an afn enc and eit afn dec wit squ err los or afn dec wit cro - ent los .
a fur con tha can opt be imp , and tha fur par the wor of rbm , is hav tie wei bet w and w , in eff den w as w = w t .
aut tra con in min the rec err , tha is , car the fol -
whe we wro z ( x ) to emp the fac tha z is a det fun of x , sin z is obt by com of det enc and dec .
mak thi exp and usi our den of los l fro equ 123 thi can be rew as :
eq1 ( x ) ( log p ( x|z = gq
( fq ( x ) ) ) ) ,
eq1 ( x ) ( log p ( x|y = fq ( x ) ;q
we see tha thi las lin cor to equ 123 , tha is , the max of a low bou on the mut inf bet x and y .
it can thu be sai tha tra an aut to min rec err amo to max a low bou on the mut inf bet inp x and lea rep - sen y .
int , if a rep all a goo rec of its inp , it mea tha it has ret muc of the inf tha was pre in tha inp .
123 mer ret inf is not eno
the cri tha rep y sho ret inf abo inp x is not by its suf to yie a use rep .
ind mut inf can be tri max by set y = x .
sim , an ord aut whe y is of the sam dim as x ( or lar ) can ach per rec sim by lea an ide map . 123 wit any oth con , thi cri alo is unl to lea to the dis of a mor use rep tha the inp .
thu fur con nee to be app to att to sep use inf ( to be re - tai ) fro noi ( to be dis ) .
thi wil nat tra to non - zer rec err .
the tra app to aut use a bot to pro an und - com rep - sen whe d < d .
the res low - dim y can thu be see as a los com rep of x .
whe usi afn enc and dec wit any non and a squ err los , the aut ess per pri com ana ( pca ) as sho by
mor pre , it suf tha g f be the ide to obt zer rec err .
for d = d if we had a lin enc and dec thi wou be ach for any inv mat w by set w = w12
now the is a sig non in the enc , but it is pos to sta in the lin par of the sig wit sma eno w .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
bal and hor ( 123 ) . 123 whe a non suc as a sig is use in the enc , thi bec a lit mor com : obt the pca sub is a lik pos ( bou and kam , 123 ) sin it is pos to sta in the lin reg of the sig , but arg not the onl one ( jap et al . , 123 ) .
als whe usi a cro - ent los rat tha a squ err the opt obj is no lon the sam as tha of pca and wil lik lea dif fea .
the use of tie wei can als cha the sol : for enc and dec mat to be sym and thu hav the sam sca can mak it har for the enc to sta in the lin reg of its non wit pay a hig pri in rec err .
alt it is als con to imp on y dif con tha tha of a low dim .
in par the pos of usi ove - com ( i . e . , hig dim tha the inp ) but spa rep has rec muc att lat .
int in spa rep - sen is ins in par by evi tha neu act in the bra see to be spa and has bur fol the sem wor of ols and fie ( 123 ) on spa cod .
oth mot for spa rep inc the abi to han eff var - siz rep - sen ( cou onl the non - zer ) , and the fac tha den com rep ten to ent inf ( i . e . , cha a sin asp of the inp yie sig cha in all com of the rep ) whe spa one can be exp to be eas to int and to use for a sub cla .
var mod of the tra aut fra hav bee pro in ord to lea spa rep ( ran et al . , 123 , 123 ) .
the wer sho to ext ver use rep , fro whi it is pos to bui top per dee neu net cla .
a spa ove - com rep can be vie as an alt - nat com rep : it has imp str com due to the lar num of zer rat tha an exp low dim .
usi a den cri
we hav see tha the rec cri alo is una to gua the ext of use fea as it can lea to the obv sol sim cop the inp or sim uni one tha tri max mut inf .
one str to avo thi phe is to con the rep : the tra bot and the mor rec int on spa rep bot fol thi str .
her we pro and exp a ver dif str .
rat tha con the rep , we cha the rec cri for a bot mor cha and mor int obj - tiv : cle par cor inp , or in sho den .
in doi so we mod the imp den of a goo rep int the fol : a goo rep is one tha can be obt rob fro a cor inp and tha wil be use for rec the cor cle inp .
two und ide are imp in thi app :
fir it is exp tha a hig lev rep sho be rat sta and rob und
cor of the inp .
sec , it is exp tha per the den tas wel req ext fea tha
cap use str in the inp dis .
mor spe it wil nd the sam sub as pca , but the spe pro dir fou wil in gen
not cor to the act pri dir and nee not be ort .
sta den aut
we emp her tha our goa is not the tas of den per se .
rat den is ad - voc and inv as a tra cri for lea to ext use fea tha wil con bet hig lev rep .
the use of a lea rep can the be ass obj by mea the acc of a cla tha use it as inp .
123 the den aut alg
thi app lea to a ver sim var of the bas aut des abo .
a den aut ( dae ) is tra to rec a cle rep inp fro a cor ver of it ( the spe typ of cor we con wil be dis bel ) .
thi is don by rst cor the ini inp x int x by mea of a sto map x qd ( x|x ) .
cor inp x is the map , as wit the bas aut , to a hid rep ( y ) .
see fig 123 for a sch y = fq ( x ) = s ( wx + b ) fro whi we rec a z = gq rep of the pro .
par q and q are tra to min the ave rec - str err ove a tra set , tha is , to hav z as clo as pos to the unc inp x .
the key dif is tha z is now a det fun of x rat tha x .
as pre , the con rec err is eit the cro - ent los lih ( x , z ) = ih ( b ( x ) kb ( z ) ) , wit an afn dec , or the squ err los l12 ( x , z ) = kx zk1 , wit an afn dec .
pa - ram are ini at ran and the opt by sto gra des .
not tha eac tim a tra exa x is pre , a dif cor ver x of it is gen acc to qd ( x|x ) .
not tha den aut are sti min the sam rec los bet a cle x and its rec fro y .
so thi sti amo to max a low bou on the mut inf bet cle inp x and rep y .
the dif is tha y is now obt by app det map fq to a cor inp .
it thu for the lea of a far mor cle map tha the ide : one tha ext fea use for den .
fig 123 : the den aut arc .
an exa x is sto cor ( via qd ) to x .
the aut the map it to y ( via enc fq ) and att to rec , pro rec z .
rec err is mea by los x via dec gq
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
123 geo int
the pro of den , tha is , map a cor exa bac to an unc one , can be giv an int geo int und the so - cal man ass ( cha et al . , 123 ) , whi sta tha nat hig dim dat con clo to a non - lin low - dim man .
thi is ill in fig 123
dur den tra , we lea a
sto ope p ( x|e ) tha map a cor ex bac to its unc x , for exa , in the
cas of bin dat ,
( fq ( ex ) ) ) .
cor exa are muc mor lik to be out and far fro the man tha the
unc one .
thu sto ope p ( x|e ) lea a map tha ten to go fro low pro - abi poi ex to nea hig pro poi x , on or nea the man .
not tha whe ex is far fro the man , p ( x|e ) sho lea to mak big ste , to rea the man
ces den imp tha the ope map eve far awa poi to a sma reg clo to the
the den aut can thu be see as a way to den and lea a man .
in par - lar , if we con the dim of y to be sma tha the dim of x , the the int rep y = f ( x ) may be int as a coo sys for poi on the man .
mor gen , one can thi of y = f ( x ) as a rep of x whi is wel sui to cap the mai var in the dat , tha is , tho alo the man .
123 typ of cor con
the abo pri and tec can pot be use wit any typ of cor pro .
als the cor pro is an obv pla whe pri kno , if ava , cou be eas in - cor .
but in the pre stu we set to inv a tec tha is gen app
g ( f ( x ) )
qd ( x|x )
fig 123 : man lea per .
sup tra dat ( ) con nea a low - dim man .
cor exa ( . ) obt by app cor pro qd ( ex| ) wil gen lie far fro the man .
the mod lea wit p ( x|e ) to pro the bac ( via aut gq ( fq ( ) ) ) ont the man .
int rep - res y = fq ( x ) may be int as a coo sys for poi x on the
sta den aut
par we wan it to be usa for lea eve hig lev rep by sta den - ing aut .
now whi pri kno on rel cor pro may be ava in a par inp spa ( suc as ima ) , suc pri kno wil not be ava for the spa of int - lev rep .
we wil thu res our dis and exp to the fol sim cor pro -
is for to 123
add iso gau noi ( gs ) : x|x n ( x , s 123 ) ; mas noi ( mn ) : a fra n of the ele of x ( cho at ran for eac exa ) sal - and - pep noi ( sp ) : a fra n of the ele of x ( cho at ran for eac
exa ) is set to the min or max pos val ( typ 123 or 123 ) acc to a fai coi ip .
add gau noi is a ver com noi mod , and is a nat cho for rea val - ued inp .
the sal - and - pep noi wil als be con , as it is a nat cho for inp dom whi are int as bin or nea bin suc as bla and whi ima or the rep pro at the hid lay aft a sig squ fun .
muc of our wor how , bot for its ins and in exp , foc on mas noi whi can be vie as tur off com con mis or rep the val by a def val is , a com tec for han mis val .
all inf abo the mas com is thu rem fro tha par inp pat , and we can vie the den aut as tra to ll - in the art int bla .
als , num , for com to zer mea tha the are tot ign in the com of dow
we dra the rea att to the fac tha bot sal - and - pep and mas noi dra - cal cor but a fra of the ele whi lea the oth unt .
den , tha is , rec the val of the cor ele , wil onl be pos tha to dep be - twe dim in hig dim dis .
den tra is thu exp to cap the dep .
the app pro mak les sen for ver low dim pro , at lea wit the typ of cor .
123 ext : put an emp on cor dim
noi typ suc as mas noi and sal - and - pep tha era onl a cha sub of the inp com whi lea the oth unt sug a str ext of the den aut cri .
rat tha giv equ wei to the rec of all com - pon of the inp , we can put an emp on the cor dim .
to ach thi we giv a dif wei a tha wer lef unt .
a and b are con hyp .
for the rec err on com tha wer cor , and b
for the squ los thi yie
l12 , a ( x , z ) = a ( cid : 123 )
( x j z j ) 123 ! + b ( cid : 123 )
( x j z j ) 123 ! ,
j / j ( x )
whe j ( x ) den the ind of the com of x tha wer cor .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
and for the cro - ent los thi yie
lih , a ( x , z ) = a ( cid : 123 )
( x j log j + ( 123 x j ) log ( 123 z j ) ) ! ( x j log j + ( 123 x j ) log ( 123 z j ) ) ! .
j / j ( x )
we cal thi ext emp den aut .
a spe cas tha we cal ful emp is obt for a = 123 , b = 123 whe we onl tak int acc the err on the pre of cor ele .
123 sta den aut to bui dee arc
sta den aut to ini a dee net wor in muc the sam way as sta - ing rbm in dee bel net ( hin et al . , 123 hin and sal , 123 ) or ord aut ( ben et al . , 123 ran et al . , 123 lar et al . , 123 ) .
let us spe tha inp cor is onl use for the ini den - tra of eac ind lay , so tha it may lea use fea ext .
onc the map fq has thu bee lea , it wil hen be use on unc inp .
in par no cor is app to pro the rep tha wil ser as cle inp for tra the nex lay .
the com pro for lea and sta sev lay of den aut is sho in fig 123
onc a sta of enc has thu bee bui , its hig lev out rep can be use as inp to a sta - alo sup lea alg , for exa a sup vec mac cla or a ( mul - cla ) log reg .
alt , as ill in fig 123 , a log reg lay can be add on top of the enc , yie a dee neu net ame to sup lea .
the par of all lay can the be sim ne - tun usi a gra - bas pro suc as sto gra des .
rel app in the lit
in thi sec , we bri rev and dis rel pri wor alo thr dif axe .
123 pre wor on tra neu net for den
the ide of tra a mul - lay per usi err bac on a den tas is not new .
the app was rst int by lec ( 123 ) and gal et al .
( 123 ) as an alt met to lea an ( aut - ) ass mem sim to how hop net ( hop , 123 ) wer und .
the net wer tra and tes on bin inp pat , cor by ipp a fra of inp bit cho at ran .
bot the mod and tra pro in thi pre wor are ver sim to the den aut we des . 123 our mot and goa are how qui dif .
the obj of lec ( 123 ) was to stu the cap of suc a net for mem tas , tha is , cou how man tra pat it was abl to
the are a few min dif for exa , the use of a squ err aft sig for bin dat , whi we ten to use a cro - ent los .
als the den pro con doi sev rec pas thr the aut net , as in a rec net .
sta den aut
fig 123 : sta den aut .
aft tra a rst lev den aut ( see fig 123 ) its lea enc fun fq is use on cle inp ( lef ) .
the res rep is use to tra a sec lev den aut ( mid ) to lea a sec lev enc fun f ( 123 )
fro the , the pro can be rep ( rig ) .
fig 123 : fin - tun of a dee net for cla .
aft tra a sta of enc as exp in the pre gur , an out lay is add on top of the sta .
the par - ete of the who sys are ne - tun to min the err in pre the sup tar ( e . g . , cla ) , by per gra des on a sup cos .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
cor rec und the con .
the wor als cle est the use of a non - lin hid lay for thi .
by con , our wor is mot by the sea and und of uns pre cri to ini dee net .
our pri int is thu in inv the abi of the den cri to lea goo fea ext , wit whi to ini a dee net by sta and com the fea ext .
we foc on ana the lea hig - lev rep and the eff on the cla per of res
ano ins wor tha is ver muc rel to the app adv her is the res of seu ( 123 ) , in whi a rec neu net is tra to com cor inp pat usi bac thr tim .
bot the wor of seu ( 123 ) and tha of lec ( 123 ) and gal et al .
( 123 ) app to be ins by hop - typ ass mem ( hop , 123 ) in whi lea pat are con as att xed poi of a rec net dyn .
seu ( 123 ) con a ver int ana in ter of con att , poi out the lim of reg aut , and adv the pat com tas as an alt to den est for uns lea .
aga , it dif for our stu mai by its foc a ) on rec net and b ) on the ima den tas per se .
the lat jus the use of pri kno of the 123 top of ima , bot in the arc cho of loc 123 rec eld con , and in the cor pro tha con in zer - out a squ ima pat at a ran pos .
thi occ by a 123 pat is a spe for of a str mas noi , whe the a - pri kno 123 top str of ima is tak int acc .
in our res we del cho not to use top pri kno in our mod nor in our cor pro , so tha the sam gen pro may be app to lea hig lev of rep fro low one , or to oth dom for whi we hav no suc top pri kno .
mor rec jai and seu ( 123 ) pre a ver int and suc app for ima den , tha con in lay - wis bui of a dee con neu net .
the alg yie com or bet per tha sta - of - the - art mar ran fie and wav met dev for ima den .
the app cle has roo in the ear wor ( seu , 123 ) and app als ins by mor rec res on dee net pre , inc our own gro ( ben et al . , 123 ) .
but app , nei of us was ini awa of the oth gro rel wor on den ( vin et al . , 123 jai and seu , 123 ) .
aga the foc of seu ( 123 ) on ima den per se dif fro our own foc on stu dee net - wor pre for cla tas and res in mar dif in the act alg .
spe , in jai and seu ( 123 ) eac lay in the sta is tra to rec the ori cle ima a lit bet , whi mak sen for ima den .
thi can be con wit our app , in whi upp lay are tra to den - and - rec wha rep the rec fro the lay imm bel , rat tha to res the ori inp ima in one ope .
thi log fol fro our sea for a gen fea ext alg for pre , whe upp lev rep wil eve be use for a tot dif tas suc as cla .
not how tha a rec net can be see as dee net , wit the add pro tha all lay sha
the sam wei .
sta den aut
123 tra cla wit noi inp
the ide of tra a neu net wit noi inp ( sca and zee , 123 von leh et al . , 123 ) or tra wit jit as it is som cal bee pro to enh gen - tio per for sup lea tas ( sie and dow , 123 hol and koi , 123 an , 123 ) .
thi thr of res is les dir rel to aut and den tha the stu dis in the pre sec .
it is nev rel .
aft all , den amo to usi noi pat as inp wit the cle pat as a sup tar , alb a rat hig di - men one .
it has bee arg tha tra wit noi is equ to app gen tik reg ( bis , 123 ) .
on the sur , thi may see to sug tha tra wit noi inp has a sim eff to tra wit an l12 wei dec pen ( i . e . , pen the sum of squ wei ) , but thi vie is inc .
tik reg app to lin reg is ind equ to a l12 wei dec pen ( i . e . , rid reg ) .
but for a non - lin map - pin suc as a neu net , tik reg is no lon so sim ( bis , 123 ) .
mor imp , in the non - lin cas , the equ of noi tra wit tik reg is der fro a tay ser exp , and is thu onl val in the lim of ver sma add noi .
see gra et al .
( 123 ) for a the stu and dis reg the lim of val for thi equ .
las but not lea , our exp res in sec 123 cle sho qua ver dif res whe usi den aut ( i . e . , noi inp ) tha whe usi reg aut wit a l12 wei dec .
her , we mus als men a wel - kno tec to imp the gen per of a cla ( neu net or oth ) , whi con in aug the ori tra set wit add dis inp , eit exp ( bai , 123 pog and vet , 123 ) or vir thr a mod alg ( sim et al . , 123 sch et al . , 123 ) .
for cha ima for ins suc dis may inc sma tra , rot , sca and she of the ima , or eve app a sca noi mod .
thi tec can thu be see as tra wit noi cor inp , but wit a hig str cor pro bas on muc pri kno . 123 as alr exp and mot abo , our int in thi wor is to dev and inv a gen app tec , tha sho als be app to int hig lev rep .
thu we int res our stu to ver sim gen cor pro tha do not inc exp pri kno .
we als str the dif bet the app we jus dis , tha con in tra a neu net by opt a glo sup cri usi noi inp , and the app we inv in the pre wor , tha is , usi a loc uns den cri to pre eac lay of the net wit the goa to lea use int rep .
we sha see in exp sec 123 tha the lat app to a dee net yie bet cla per tha the for .
123 pse - lik and dep net
the vie of den tra as lli in the bla tha mot the mas noi and the ext tha put an emp on cor dim pre in sec 123 , can als be re - lat to the pse - lik ( bes , 123 ) and dep net ( hec et al . , 123 )
cle , sim tik reg can ach the sam as tra wit suc pri kno bas cor - rup pro .
thi fur ill the lim of the equ bet tra wit noi and tik
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
par .
max pse - lik ins of lik imp rep the lik ter p ( x ) by the pro of con ( cid : 123 ) i=1 p ( xi| ) .
her xi den the ith com of inp vec var x and xi den all com but the ith .
sim , in the dep net app of hec et al .
( 123 ) one lea d con dis , eac tra to pre com i giv ( a sub of ) all oth com .
thi is in eff wha an emp den aut wit a mas noi tha mas but one inp com ( n = 123 d ) , and a ful emp ( a = 123 , b = 123 ) , is tra to do .
mor spe , for bin var it wil lea to pre p ( xi = 123 ) ; and whe usi squ err for rea - val var it wil lea to pre e ( xi| ) ass xi| n ( e ( xi| ) , s 123 ) .
not tha wit den aut , all d con dis are con to sha com par , whi den the map to and fro hid rep y .
als whe the emp is not ful put on the cor com - pon ( b > 123 ) som of the net cap wil be dev to enc / dec unc
a mor imp dif can be app by con the fol sce : wha hap if com of the inp com in ide pai ? in tha cas , con dis p ( xi| ) can sim lea to rep the oth com of the pai , thu not cap any oth pot use dep .
now for dep net thi exa sce is for by the for req tha no inp con may hav zer pro .
but a sim pro may occ in pra if the com in a pai are not ide but ver hig cor .
by con , den aut can and wil typ be tra wit a lar fra n of cor - rup com , so tha rel pre of a com can rel exc on a sin
exp on sin den aut : qua eva of
lea fea det
a rst ser of exp was car out usi sin den aut , tha is , wit any sta nor sup ne tun .
the goa was to exa qua the kin of fea det lea by a den cri , for var noi typ , and com the to wha ord
fea det tha cor to the rst hid lay of a net tra on ima dat are str to vis .
eac hid neu y j has an ass vec of wei w j tha it use to com a dot pro wit an inp exa ( bef app its non - lin ) .
the w j vec , the lte , hav the sam dim as the inp , and can thu be dis as lit ima sho wha asp of the inp eac hid neu is sen to .
123 fea det lea fro nat ima pat we tra bot reg aut and den aut on 123 pat fro whi nat sce ima , mad ava by ols ( ols and fie , 123 ) . 123 a few of the pat are sho in fig 123 ( lef ) .
for the nat ima pat , we use a lin dec and a squ rec cos .
net par wer tra fro a ran sta , 123 usi
mor spe ran pos 123 123 pat wer ext fro the 123 123 pat mad ava by 123
we app the usu ran ini heu in whi wei are sam ind for a uni in
ols at the fol url : htt : / / red . ber . edu / bru / spa / .
ran ( 123
) whe fan in thi cas is the inp dim .
sta den aut
sto gra des to per 123 wei upd wit a xed lea rat of 123 .
all lte sho wer fro exp wit tie wei , but unt wei yie sim res .
fig 123 dis lte lea by a reg und - com aut tha use a bot of 123 hid uni , as wel as tho lea by an ove - com aut usi 123 hid uni .
fil obt in the und - com cas loo lik ver loc blo det .
no cle str is app in the lte lea in the ove - com cas .
fig 123 : reg aut tra on nat ima pat .
lef : som of the 123 123 ima pat use for tra .
mid : lte lea by a reg und - com aut ( 123 hid uni ) usi tie wei and l12 rec err .
rig : lte lea by a reg ove - com aut ( 123 hid uni ) .
the und - com aut app to lea rat uni loc blo det .
fil obt in the ove - com cas hav no rec str , loo ent ran .
we the tra 123 hid uni ove - com noi aut reg wit l12 wei dec , as wel as 123 hid uni den aut wit iso gau noi ( but no wei dec ) .
res lte are sho in fig 123
not tha a den aut wit a noi lev of 123 is ide to a reg aut .
so , nat , lte lea by a den aut at sma noi lev ( not sho ) loo lik tho obt wit a reg aut pre sho in fig 123
wit a suf lar noi lev how ( s = 123 ) , the den aut lea gab - lik loc ori edg det ( see fig 123 ) .
thi is sim to wha is lea by spa cod ( ols and fie , 123 , 123 ) , or ica ( bel and sej , 123 ) and res sim cel rec eld fro the pri vis cor rst stu by hub and wie ( 123 ) .
the l12 reg aut on the oth han lea not int bey res som of the loc blo det fou in the und - com cas .
not tha we did try a wid ran of val for the reg hyp , 123 but wer nev abl to get gab - lik lte .
fro thi exp , we see cle tha tra wit suf lar noi yie a qua ver dif out tha tra wit a wei dec reg , whi con exp tha the two are not equ for a non - lin aut , as dis ear in sec 123 .
fig 123 sho som of the res obt wit the oth two noi typ con , tha is ,
sal - and - pep noi , and mas - noi .
we exp wit 123 cor lev n : 123 , 123 , 123 .
the lte sho wer obt usi 123 hid uni , but sim lte wer fou wit 123 or 123 hid uni .
sal - and - pep noi yie gab - lik edg det , whe mas noi 123
att wei dec val wer the fol : l ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ,
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
fig 123 : wei dec vs .
gau noi .
we sho typ lte lea fro nat ima pat in the ove - com cas ( 123 hid uni ) .
lef : reg aut wit wei dec .
we tri a wid ran of wei - dec val and lea rat : lte nev app to cap a mor int str tha wha is sho her .
not tha som loc blo det are rec com to usi no wei dec at all ( fig 123 rig ) .
rig : a den aut wit add gau noi ( s = 123 ) lea gab - lik loc ori edg det .
cle the lte lea are qua ver dif in the two cas .
yie a mix of edg det and gra lte .
cle dif cor typ and lev can yie qua dif lte .
but it is int to not tha all thr noi typ we exp wit wer abl to yie som pot use edg det .
123 fea det lea fro han dig we als tra den aut on the 123 123 gra - sca ima of han dig fro the mni dat set .
for thi exp , we use den aut wit tie wei , cro - ent rec err , and zer - mas noi .
the goa was to bet und the qua eff of the noi lev .
so we tra sev den aut , all sta fro the sam ini ran poi in wei spa , but wit dif noi lev .
fig 123 sho som of the res lte lea and how the are aff as we inc the lev of cor .
wit 123 cor , the maj of the lte app tot ran , wit onl a few tha spe as lit ink blo det .
wit inc noi lev , a muc lar pro of int ( vis non ran and wit a cle str ) fea det are lea .
the inc loc ori str det and det of dig par suc as loo .
it was to be exp tha den a mor cor inp req det big , les loc str : the den aut - enc mus rel on lon ran sta dep and poo evi fro a lar sub of pix .
int , lte tha sta fro the sam ini ran wei vec oft loo lik the gro fro ran , to loc blo det , to sli big str det suc as a str det , as we use inc noi lev .
by gro we mea tha the sli lar str lea at a hig noi lev oft app rel to the sma str obt at low noi lev , in tha the sha abo the sam pos and ori .
sta den aut
fig 123 : fil obt on nat ima pat by den aut usi oth noi typ .
lef : wit 123 sal - and - pep noi , we obt ori gab - lik lte .
the app sli les loc tha whe usi gau noi ( con wit fig 123 rig ) .
rig : wit 123 zer - mas noi we obt lte tha loo lik ori gra .
for the thr con noi typ , den tra app to lea lte tha cap mea nat ima sta str .
exp on sta den aut
in thi sec , we eva den aut as a pre str for bui dee net - wor , usi the sta pro tha we des in sec 123 .
we sha mai com the cla per of net pre by sta den aut ( sda ) , ver - sus sta reg aut ( sae ) , ver sta res bol mac ( dbn ) , on a ben of cla pro .
123 con cla pro and exp met
we con 123 cla pro , the det of whi are lis in tab 123
the con
the sta mni dig cla pro wit 123 tra exa .
the eig ben ima cla pro use in lar et al .
( 123 ) whi in - clu mor cha var of the mni dig cla pro ( all wit 123 tra exa ) , as wel as thr art 123 123 bin ima cla tas . 123 the pro wer des to be par cha to cur gen lea al - gor ( lar et al . , 123 ) .
the are ill in fig 123
a var of the tza aud gen cla dat set ( ber , 123 ) whi con - tai 123 thr - sec aud cli , equ dis amo 123 mus gen : blu , cla , cou , dis , hip , pop , jaz , met , reg and roc .
eac exa in the set
the dat set for thi ben are ava at htt : / / www . iro . umo . ca / lis / icm
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
( a ) no cor
( b ) 123 cor
( c ) 123 cor
( d ) neu a ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 cor )
( e ) neu b ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 cor )
fig 123 : fil lea by den aut on mni dig , usi zer - mas noi .
( a - c ) sho som of the lte lea by den aut tra wit var cor .
fil at the sam pos in the thr ima are rel onl by the fac tha the aut wer sta fro the sam ran ini poi in par spa .
( d ) and ( e ) zoo in on the lte obt for two of the neu .
as can be see , wit no noi , man lte rem sim uni ( und alm uni ran gre pat ) .
as we inc the noi lev , den tra for the lte to dif mor , and cap mor dis fea .
hig noi lev ten to ind les loc lte , as exp .
one can dis dif kin of lte , fro loc blo det , to str det , and cha par det at the hig noi
was rep by 123 mel pho coe ( mpc ) fea .
the are a sim for - mul of the mel - fre cep coe ( mfc ) tha wer sho to yie bet cla per ( ber , 123 ) .
all pro exc tza had the dat spl int tra set , val set and tes set .
we kep the sam sta spl tha wer use in lar et al .
( 123 ) .
the tra set is use for bot pre and ne tun of the mod .
cla per on the val set is use for cho the bes con of hyp ( mod sel ) .
the cor cla per on the tes set is the rep tog wit a 123 con int .
for tza we use a sli dif pro , sin the was no pre sta spl and few exa .
we use 123 - fol cro val , whe eac fol con of 123 tra exa , 123 tes and 123 val exa .
for eac fol , hyp wer cho bas on the per on the val set , and the ret mod was use for com - put the cor tes err .
we rep the ave tes err and sta dev acr the 123 fol .
we wer thu abl to com the cla per of dee neu net usi
dif uns ini str for the par :
sta den aut
mlp ran : mul per wit usu ran ini dbn ( dee bel net ) cor to sta rbm pre sae sta aut pre sda sta den aut pre .
in all cas , the sam sup ne - tun pro was the use , tha is , sim sto gra des wit ear sto bas on val set per .
dat set des
mni sta mni dig cla -
bas sma sub of mni .
rot mni dig wit add
bg - ran mni dig wit ran
bg - img mni dig wit ran
bg - img - rot mni dig wit rot
and ima bac .
rec dis bet tal and wid rec ( whi
rec - img dis bet tal and wid rec ima ove on a dif
con dis bet con -
vex and con sha .
tza cla gen of thi sec -
123 - fol cro val - tio on 123 tra
tab 123 : dat set .
cha of the 123 dif pro con .
exc for tza - tak who inp is mad of 123 mpc fea ext fro sho aud seq , all oth pro are 123 123 gra - sca ima cla tas ( i . e . , inp dim - ali is 123 123 = 123 ) .
see lar et al .
( 123 ) and ber ( 123 ) for fur det on the dat set .
the tab giv , for eac tas , its sho nam , a des of the pro , a des of inp pre , the num of cla ( m ) , and the num of exa use for the tra , val and tes set res .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
( a ) rot , bg - ran , bg - img , bg - img - rot
( b ) rec , rec - img , con
fig 123 : sam for the var ima cla pro .
( a ) : har var on the
mni dig cla pro .
( b ) : art bin cla pro .
on the 123 123 gra - sca ima pro , sae and sda use lin dec lay and wer tra usi a cro - ent los , due to thi bei a nat cho for thi kin of ( nea ) bin ima , as wel as bei fun clo to rbm pre we wan to com
how for tra the rst lay on the tza pro , tha is , for rec mpc coe , a lin dec and a squ rec cos wer dee mor app ( sub - seq lay use sig cro ent as bef ) .
sim the rst lay rbm use in pre - tra a dbn on tza was den wit a gau vis lay .
tab 123 lis the hyp tha had to be tun by pro mod sel ( bas on val set per ) .
not tha to red the cho spa , we res our to the sam num of hid uni , the sam noi lev , and the sam lea rat for all hid lay .
123 emp com of dee net tra str
tab 123 rep the cla per obt on all dat set usi a 123 hid lay neu net pre wit the thr dif str : by sta den aut ( sda - 123 ) , sta res bol mac ( dbn - 123 ) , and sta reg aut ( sae - 123 ) .
for ref the tab als con the per obt by a sin hid - lay dbn - 123 and by a sup vec mac wit a rbf ker ( svm ) . 123
svm wer tra usi the lib imp .
the hyp ( c and ker wid ) wer tun sem -
aut ( i . e . , by hum gui gri - sea ) , sea for the bes per on the val set .
sta den aut
num of hid lay num of uni per hid lay ( sam for all lay )
lra xed lea rat for uns -
lra xed lea rat for sup
num of pre epo thr the who cor noi lev
( 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 123 , 123 )
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 )
tab 123 : lis of hyp for dee net .
the hyp are com to all con dee net tra str , exc for noi lev n whi is spe to sda ( for whi we mus als cho the kin of cor ) .
we lis the typ val we con in the maj of our exp .
bes per con on the val set was alw sea for in a sem - aut fas , tha is , run exp in par on a lar com clu , but wit man gui to avo was res on unn par of the con spa .
som exp mea to stu mor clo the inu of spe hyp occ use a ner sea gri for the , as wil be spe in the des of the exp .
in the exp , sda use a zer - mas cor noi for all pro exc for tza , for whi a gau noi was dee mor app due to the nat of the inp .
we see tha sda - 123 sys out the bas svm , as wel as sae - 123 ( exc for con for whi the dif is not sta sig ) .
thi sho cle tha de - noi pre wit a non - zer noi lev is a bet str tha pre wit reg aut .
for all but one pro , sda - 123 is eit the bes per alg or has its con int ove wit tha of the win alg ( i . e . , dif can be con sta sig ) .
in mos cas , sta 123 lay of den aut see to be on par or bet tha sta 123 lay of rbm in dbn - 123
in the fol sub , we wil be con fur det exp to she lig
on par asp of the den aut pre str .
123 inu of num of lay , hid uni per lay , and noi lev
nex we wan to stu mor clo the inu of imp arc hyp , nam the num of lay , the num of hid uni per lay , and the noi lev .
for thi ner
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
sda - 123 ( n )
tab 123 : com of sta den aut ( sda - 123 ) wit oth mod .
tes err rat on all con cla pro is rep tog wit a 123 con int .
bes per is in bol , as wel as tho for whi con int ove .
sda - 123 app to ach per sup or equ to the bes oth mod on all pro exc bg - ran .
for sda - 123 , we als ind the fra n of cor inp com , or in cas of tza , the sta dev of the gau noi , as cho by pro mod sel .
not tha sae - 123 is equ to sda - 123 wit n = 123 .
gra ser of exp , we cho to con on the har of the con pro , tha is , the one wit the mos fac of var : bg - img - rot .
we rst exa how the pro net tra str beh as we inc the cap of the mod bot in bre ( num of neu per lay ) and in dep ( num of hid lay ) .
fig 123 sho the evo of the per as we inc the num of hid lay fro 123 to 123 , for thr dif net tra str : wit any pre ( sta mlp ) , wit ord aut pre ( sae ) and wit den aut pre ( sda ) .
we cle see a str ord : den pre bei bet tha aut pre bei bet tha no pre .
the adv app to inc wit the num of lay ( not tha wit pre it see imp to suc tra a 123 hid lay net ) and wit the num of hid uni .
thi gen beh is a typ ill of wha is gai by pre dee net wit a goo uns cri , and app to be com to sev pre str .
we ref the rea to erh et al .
( 123 ) for an emp stu and dis reg pos exp for the phe , cen on the obs of reg eff ( we exp the hyp tha fea of x tha hel to cap p ( x ) als hel to cap p ( y|x ) ) and opt eff ( uns pre - tra ini par nea a bet loc min of gen err ) .
not tha in tun the hyp for all cla per so far rep , we con onl a coa cho of noi lev n ( nam 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 of zer - mas cor for the ima cla pro ) .
cle it was not nec to pic the noi lev ver pre to obt goo per .
in fig 123 we exa in mor det the inu of the lev of cor n usi a mor ne - gra gri for pro bg - img - rot
sta den aut
fig 123 : cla per on bg - img - rot for sta mlp wit ran ini ( nop , lef ) , sae ( mid ) , and sda ( rig ) , as we inc the num of hid - den lay and the num of neu per lay .
err bar sho 123 con in - ter .
not tha wit pre the cur for 123 lay is out the gra , the cla err bei abo 123 .
not tha sda app to per bet tha sae ( 123 noi ) for a rat wid ran of noi lev , reg of the num of hid lay .
the fol sec rep an exp tha was con on thr oth dat set .
the ex - per had a dif goa and thu use a coa n gri , but the res cur ( see fig 123 ) app to fol a sim pat to the one see her ( fig 123 ) .
123 den pre vs .
tra wit noi inp
we dis in sec 123 the imp dis bet den pre as it is don in sda and sim tra wit noi inp .
sda use a den cri to lea goo ini fea ext at eac lay tha wil be use as ini for a noi sup tra .
thi is ver dif fro tra wit noi inp , whi amo to tra wit a ( vir ) exp dat set .
thi lat app can in pri be app to any cla , suc as an svm or a sae .
not tha in the cas of the sae , sin the are two pha ( pre and ne - tun ) , it is pos to use noi inp for onl the pre or for bot the pre
for sae , inp exa can che be cor on the y , but thi is not an opt wit sta svm alg .
so for svm tra we rst aug the tra set by gen 123 ext var of eac ori tra exa thu yie a tra set 123 tim big tha the ori .
alt , we cou ins hav use the
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
fig 123 : sen to the lev of cor .
the cur rep the tes err rat for sda tra on pro bg - img - rot as a fun of the fra n of cor inp com - nen ( usi zer mas noi ) .
err bar sho 123 con int .
not tha 123 cor cor to a sae ( reg aut ) .
and ne - tun pha .
we exp com the dif app on thr dat set in fig 123
we see tha den pre wit sda , for a lar ran of noi lev , yie sig imp per , whe tra wit noi inp som deg the per , and som imp it sli but is cle les ben tha sda .
123 var on the den aut : alt cor typ and emp
in the nex ser of exp , we wan to eva qua the eff of usi the var cor noi des in sec 123 as wel as the emp den aut var des in sec 123 .
ext exp wer car out on the sam 123 pro we use in the pre sec .
bes zer - mas noi ( mn ) we tra 123 hid lay sda usi sal - and - pep noi ( sp ) and add gau noi ( gs ) .
for mn and sp , we als tri the emp var . 123 for eac con var , hyp wer sel as usu to yie the bes per on the
vir sv tec ( sch et al . , 123 ) , whi may or may not hav yie bet per , but sin our mai foc her is com noi sae wit sda , svm onl ser as a sim bas .
as alr men pre , sin gau noi cor eve dim , emp den doe not
mak sen for thi typ of cor .
sta den aut
fig 123 : sda vs .
tra wit noi inp .
the tes err of a sda wit 123 hid lay is com to oth alg tra wit noi inp : a svm wit rbf ker ( svm ) , a 123 - hid - lay sae whe noi inp wer use for pre onl ( sae ( 123 ) ) and one whe noi inp wer use bot for pre and sup ne - tun ( sae ( 123 ) ) .
hid lay hav 123 neu eac .
zer - mas noi was use .
not tha at 123 noi , the thr sta mod cor to an ord sae .
err bar sho 123 con int .
den pre wit sda app to alw yie sig bet per , unl tra wit noi inp .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
sda - 123 ( n ) + emp 123 . 123 ( 123 ) sda - 123 ( n ) + emp
tab 123 : var on 123 - hid - lay sta den aut ( sda - 123 ) : alt noi typ and eff of emp .
con noi typ are mas noi ( mn ) , sal - and - pep ( sp ) and gau noi ( gs ) .
emp ver con dou emp and ful emp ( see mai tex for det exp ) .
for eas com , the tab als rep pre sho res for svm , sae - 123 , and dbn - 123
tes err rat is rep tog wit a 123 con int .
bes per is in bol , as wel as tho for whi con int ove .
cor lev n ( fra of cor inp com or gau sta dev ) tha was ret by mod sel on the val set is spe in par .
sda - 123 wit emp on rec of cor dim app to be the bes sda var for the dat set , sig imp per on rot and bg - ran .
val set .
the inc the num of uni per lay ( sam for all lay ) , the cor ( fra of cor dim for mn and sp , or sta dev for gs ) , wit the usu con val ( lis pre in tab 123 ) .
for the emp ver , a fur hy - per was the deg of emp .
we con bot dou emp , whe the wei on the rec of the cor com is twi tha on the unc com ( a = 123 , b = 123 ) , and ful emp whe all the wei is on rec the cor com - nen and non on the unc dim ( a = 123 , b = 123 ) .
tab 123 rep the cor cla per on the hel - out tes set .
for the thr con dat set , an emp - siz sda wit sal - and - pep noi app to be the win sda var .
it thu app tha a jud cho of noi typ and add emp may oft buy us a bet per .
how we had hop , wit the var , to cat up wit the per of dbn - 123 on the bg - ran pro , 123 but dbn - 123 sti per sig bet tha the bes sda var on thi
123 are fea lea in an uns fas by sda use for svm ?
in the fol ser of exp , we wan to ver whe the hig lev rep ext usi sda cou imp the per of lea alg oth tha a neu net , suc as svm .
as dis in lar et al .
( 123 ) , bg - ran is par fav to rbm bec the pix - wis ind -
den noi per mat wha an rbm exp and wil nat not be rep in the hid uni .
sta den aut
to thi end , we fed the rep lea by the pur uns pha of sda , at inc hig lev ( rst , sec and thi hid lay ) to bot a lin svm and a ker svm ( usi a rbf ker ) .
the hyp of the svm and its ker wer tun on the val set as usu .
for com rea , we did not re - tun sda hyp .
ins , we ide the bes per sda - pre neu net wit 123 uni per lay , bas on the val per aft ne - tun fro pre exp , but use the sav wei pri to ne - tun ( i . e . , aft uns den tra onl ) .
res for all con dat set are rep in tab 123 , and fig 123 hig per cur for two of the .
cle , svm per can ben sig fro usi the hig lev rep lea by sda . 123 on all pro we see imp per com to usi the ori inp ( svm ) .
mor int , on mos pro , svm per im - pro ste as we use eve hig lev rep .
whi it is not too sur tha lin svm can ben fro hav the ori inp pro non - lin , it is not tha rbf ker svm , whi are hig - cap non - lin cla , als see to ben gre fro the non - lin map lea by sda .
fig 123 : svm on rep lea by sda .
the cur sho evo , on two dat set , of the tes per of lin and rbf ker svm as we tra the on hig lev rep lea in the uns pha of sda .
per of sda aft sup ne - tun is als sho as sda ( mn sta for mas noi ) .
hid lay 123 cor to ori inp rep .
gen sam fro sta den aut net
bes the cla per com and qua vis ins of lea lte , it is als cus in stu of dee gen mod suc as dbn , to sho sam gen
to ver tha the lea rep was res for the imp per , rat tha a ran non - lin tra , we als tra svm on the rep of the sam neu net arc but usi ran ini wei : the per deg as we use the hig lev rep .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
tab 123 : svm per on hig lev rep lea by sda .
per of bot lin svm , and svm wit rbf ker is rep , as the are tra on eit ori inp ( svm ) , or on the rep lea by a sda at the lev of its rst ( svm ) , sec ( svm ) , or thi ( svm ) hid lay .
the rep use for the svm wer tho obt pri to ne - tun .
tes err rat on all con cla pro is rep tog wit a 123 con int .
bes per is in bol , as wel as tho for whi con int ove .
cle bot lin and ker svm per ben fro usi the hig lev rep lea by sda .
for mos pro the per inc ste as we use rep fro eve hig lev of the arc .
fro the tra mod .
thi can yie ano qua vis ass of whe the wer abl to cap the inp dis wel .
123 top - dow gen of a vis sam giv a top - lay rep
giv a top - lay rep , a dee bel net ( hin et al . , 123 ) is a dir gra mod , and it is eas to do a top dow sam pas , tha is , sam eac lay con on the lay abo , to eve pro a sam in the bot lay tha can be dis .
mor pre , in sig dee bel net ( dbn ) , the rep at a low lay x giv the
sta den aut
lay abo y is dis acc to a pro of ind ber who mea is a det fun of y , tha is , x|y b ( gq has the exa sam for as tha giv in equ 123 for the dec par of an aut .
fro a tra sae or sda it is thu pos to gen sam at one lay fro the rep of the lay abo in the exa sam way as in a dbn .
( y ) ) , whe gq
123 bot - up inf of the top - lay rep cor to a giv inp
in sae / sda , giv an inp rep at the bot lay , the cor rep in the top lay is com in a det bot - up pas usi enc fun fq .
the sam pro is use in dbn and , in the gra mod per , can be vie as an app inf of a fac ber top - lay dis giv the low lev inp .
thi top - lay rep is to be und as the par ( the mea ) of a fac ber dis for the act bin uni .
123 gen sam wit sae , sda , and dbn usi the sam pro
the dee bel net of hin et al .
( 123 ) is a ful spe gen mod .
in par the joi dis of its top two lay is den by an rbm mod , 123 , tha is , an und gra mod fro whi one can efc sam usi alt gib sam ( hin et al . , 123 ) .
so to sam fro a dbn mod , one wou rst sam fro the top - lay rbm usi alt gib sam .
the , giv the thu obt top - lay rep , per the sin top dow sam pas pre des to pro a vis pat at the bot
by con , sae / sda tra doe not att to mod the dis of the top - lay rep .
so eve tho a top - lay rep can use the exa sam top dow sam pro to gen inp pat fro a sae / sda as for a dbn , sae / sda can by the alo be tre as ful spe gen mod .
the lac a mod of the mar dis of the top lay .
we can eas x thi by mod tha top - lay dis non - par by the sim mem - bas emp dis of the enc top - lay rep of the n tra set pat .
a vis sam can the be gen by sim tak the top - lay enc rep - tat of a ran pic tra set inp , and car out the top - dow sam pro exp pre , as ill in fig 123
thi sam tec can als be use as an alt - nat sam - gen pro for dbn bui by sta rbm .
if we kee the sam xed inp pat , and hen the sam cor hig lev rep - res , and per sev top - dow sam , we can thu obs wha kin of pat var the dee mul par of a dee net has lea to mod ( or abs awa in ex - tra the top - lay rep ) .
fig 123 sho the res var in the reg pat , for mod pre res as sae , sda and dbn on mni wit any su -
sae and sda tra suc gq
to per rec , tha is , pre the mea val of a lay giv the
rep in the lay imm abo it .
thi rbm was tra , usi the tra set , to mod the rep obt at the lay jus bel the top
one , pro by the bot - up pas we jus des .
bot wer pre wit sal - and - pep noi .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
fig 123 : non - par sam pro for pre net .
a ran pic inp for the ori dat set is pro as inp .
its top lev rep is obt by det bot - up enc usi fun fq ( k ) .
a vis pat is gen giv thi hig lev rep , by alt ber sam and det ( k ) ( pre ) .
thi sam dec , tha is , by suc sam fro b ( gq pro can be app wit sae , sda and dbn .
it all to see the qua and var of pat one obt giv a hig - lev rep .
per ne - tun .
it app tha sda and dbn are abl to res a var of sim goo qua dig , whe the sae tra mod reg pat wit muc vis deg - dat in qua .
thi is fur evi of the qua dif res fro opt a den cri ins of mer rec cri .
not how sda put bac the mis - ing hol in the loo of the reg 123 , and som str up the upp str of the 123 , sug tha it did ind cap int spe cha .
it app tha , whe usi thi sam sam gen pro , sda and dbn yie a sim deg of var in the reg pat ( wit dbn pat loo sli fat and sda pat sli thi ) .
nei dbn nor sda gua tha cla bou wil not be cro , 123 for exa dbn clo a loo in a 123 mak it loo clo to a 123 , whe sda som bre ope the loo of an 123 mak it loo lik a 123
but in all cas , and con to sae , the reg pat loo lik the cou be sam fro the sam unk inp dis tha yie the tra set .
con and fut wor
the pre wor was ins by rec suc app to tra dee net , spe - ica by the use of a loc uns cri , and led by the que of wha tha cri - rio sho be .
at the sam tim we wer mot by a des to bri a rem per - man gap bet dee bel net and the sta of ord aut ( ben et al . , 123 lar et al . , 123 ) .
thi led us to add a the sho of tra aut the ina in pri to lea use ove - com rep a sim yet ori way : by cha the obj fro one inv mer rec to the mor cha tas of den .
the res sta den aut alg
the rea sho how kee in min tha thi res fro uns tra onl .
sta den aut
fig 123 : var of the sam gen wit 123 - hid - lay sae , sda and dbn pre - tra mod .
eac sub - gur is to be rea row - wis : the lef pat in eac row is a tra set pat .
fol the sam gen dep in fig 123 , it was pro as inp to the net and its top - lay rep was com by de - ter bot up enc .
pat to its rig wer the gen ind giv tha top lev rep .
cle , sda tra net , lik dbn , are abl to reg hig qua sam fro the hig lev rep , con to sae .
sda and dbn als app to giv ris to a sim lev of var in the bot - up gen pat ( dbn pat ten to be som fat ) .
not how sda put bac the mis hol in the loo of the reg 123 , and som str up the upp str of the las 123 , sug tha it did ind cap mea spe cha .
dbn and sda gen pat can eas pas for sam fro the unk inp dis bei mod , unl pat gen by sae .
vin , lar , laj , ben and man
for tra dee net , pro ind abl to bri the per gap wit dbn , yie equ or bet cla per on all but one of the con ben pro - lem .
as a dee net pre str , sta of den aut yie in mos cas a sig imp in per ove the sta of ord aut .
the rep thu ext lay by lay , usi a pur uns loc den cri , app to mak sub cla tas muc eas .
thi is fur evi by the fac tha sta - of - the - art sha cla suc as ker svm als app abl to gre ben fro it .
clo exa of the fea ext lea by den aut sho tha the wer abl to zer in on use str in the dat ( suc as gab - lik edg det on nat ima pat ) tha reg aut see una to lea .
the alg we dev is a str , eas to imp , var on the wel - und ord aut .
all tha rem to be cho is the kin and lev of cor noi .
it is lik tha a car cho , pos gui by pri dom kno , may fur boo app - spe per .
nev our exp sho tha hig per - man can alr be ach usi ver sim and gen noi typ and wit lit tun of the noi lev .
in add , we wer abl to sho tha , con to wha it may see on the sur - fac bas on pop myt , the den tra we adv is not equ to usi a mer wei dec reg , nor is it the sam as dir sup tra wit cor ( jit )
bey the spe and pra use of the sim alg we dev , our re - sul cle est the val of usi a den cri as an uns obj to gui the lea of use hig lev rep .
thi is in our vie the mos imp con of our wor , as it off an int alt to mor usu ( and oft int ) lik der cri .
ind , den per can eas be mea and dir op - tim .
the use of a den cri is ver dif fro the con div tra of rbm or the dir enf of spa in aut .
we hop tha our ver enc res wil ins fur res in thi dir , bot the ( to bet und the rel - tio bet den and rep lea ) , and pra ( to dev bet lea alg bas on thi und ) .
the are cer bet way to use den - bas tra sig in the lea of a dee net tha the sim loc app we exp her .
in par , whi sta den aut all us to bui a dee net , the den aut we use her wer sha .
it wou thu be int to inv dee den aut wit sev hid lay , and the abi to for use rep .
the cho and rol of the cor pro als des fur inq .
if mor inv cor pro tha tho exp her pro ben , it wou be mos use if the cou be par and lea dir fro the dat , rat tha hav to be han - eng bas on pri - kno .
thi res was sup by fun fro nse , mit , fqr , cif , and the can res cha , and par car out on com res mad ava by rqc .
sta den aut
