one ong - erm oal of ine ing rch is to uce ods hat are ble to hly lex sks , uch as ion ( ion , ion ) , rea - ing , ent rol , and her lly ent ors .
we gue hat in der to ess ard his oal , the ine ing ity ust vor to ver hms hat can arn hly lex ons , ith min - mal eed for ior dge , and ith mal man ion .
we ent cal and cal nce ing hat any lar hes to non - ric ing , rly nel ods , are lly lim - ted in eir ity to arn lex igh - nal ons .
our sis ses on two ems .
rst , nel nes are low res , in ich one rge yer of ple ate ers is wed by a gle yer of ble nts .
we gue hat low res can be ery nef - ent in rms of red ber of nal nts and les .
sec - ond , we yze a ion of nel nes ith a cal nel , ked to the rse of ity , hat ies to sed , sed ( old arn - ing ) and emi - sed nel nes .
ing cal lts on ant age ion sks , nel ods are red ith eep res , in ich wer - vel res or pts are ely ned nto ore ab - act and her - vel ons .
we gue hat eep res ave the ial to ize in non - cal ays , i . e . , ond ate ors , and hat his is ial in der to ake ess on the ind of lex sks red for ial nce .
cal ine ing rch has ded a ich set of mic and the - cal ols ver the ast des , and has ven ise to a ber of ial and tic ons .
ver , ome of the ial als of his eld of rch re - ain ive .
a ong - erm oal of ine ing rch is to uce ods hat ill ble lly ent nts ble of ing lex ors ith mal man ion and ior dge .
les of uch lex ors are und in ual ion , ory ion , and ral age
the ain ive of his ter is to uss tal ons of cer - ain ses of ing hms , and int rds hes hat ome ese ons .
ese ons ise rom two cts of ese hms : low ar - ure , and cal ors .
we uld ike our ing hms to be ent in ree cts :
nal : ber of ons ing ing and ing ion ,
cal : ber of les red for ood ion , lly la -
led ata , and
man ent : unt of man bor ary to lor the thm to a ask , i . e . , ify the ior dge ilt nto the del ore ing .
( tly , or tly ugh ing gns ith a man - in - the - oop ) .
the ast ter ury has ven us ble non - ric ing hms hat can arn any ous put - put ing , ded ugh ing ces and ing ata .
a ial ion is how ent are ome of the lar arn - ing ods hen hey are ied to lex ual sks , uch a ual ern ion ith ted tra - ass ity .
the ter tly ses on nal and cal ncy .
ong ble ing hms , we ish a ion een low res , and eep res .
low res are est ied by ern nel nes ( opf et al . , 123 ) , uch as ort tor nes ( vms ) ( ser et al . , 123 , tes and nik , 123 ) .
hey ist of one yer of xed nel ons , ose ole is to tch the ing ern ith tes ex - ted rom a ing set , wed by a ear ion of the ing res .
nce the tes are ted rom the ing set , the rst yer of a nel ma - ine can be een as ing ned in a hat ial sed way .
the nly nts ect to sed ing are the nts of the ear ina -
eep res are aps est ied by lti - yer ral rks ith ral den ers .
in ral rms , eep res are sed of mul - ple ers of zed non - ear les .
the ers of ery ule are
3in vms nly a set of the les are ted as tes ( the ort ors ) , but his is uiv -
ent to ing ich nts of the ond yer are non - ero .
ect to ing .
eep res ely ear in the ine ing era - re; the ast ity of ral ork rch has sed on low res ith a gle den yer , use of the lty of ing rks ith ore han 123 or 123 ers ( uro , 123 ) .
ble ons ude ork on nal rks ( cun et al . , 123 , cun et al . , 123 ) , and ent ork on eep ief rks ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
ile low res ave ges , uch as the ity to use vex oss ons , we how hat hey lso ave ons in the ncy of the sen - ion of ain pes of ion ies .
ugh a ber of ems how hat ain low res ( ian nel nes , 123 - den yer ral ets , etc ) can ate any ion ith ary ion , hey ake no nts as to the ncy of the ion .
ely , eep res can , in rin - ple , ent ain ies of ons ore tly ( and ith ter ing ies ) han low nes , but the ted oss ons are ost ays non
the ter rts ith a ort ion out ask - cic sus ore ral pes of ing hms .
ugh the man ain is mes ted as an ex - nce oof of a ral - ose ing thm , ces can be ing : the so - led no - ree - nch ems ( ert , 123 ) , as ell as iks ary and ent ons for ncy ( nik , 123 , see ) , rly how hat ere is no uch ing as a ely ral ing thm .
all cal ing al - hms are ted ith ome ort of cit or cit ior hat ors ome ons ver ers .
nce a est for a ely ral ing hod is med to ure , one is ced to ing for ing els hat are ell ted for a lar ype of sks .
for us , igh on the ist of ful sks are ose hat ost als can per - orm sly , uch as ion and rol , as ell as sks hat her als and ans can do uch as ong - erm ion , ing , ing , and age ing .
in ort , our aim is to ook for ing ods hat ing us ser to an lly ent ent .
hat ers the ost in his vor is how ef - tly our del can ure and ent the red dge .
the ncy is red ong ree ain ons : the unt of ing ata red ( spe - lly led ata ) , the unt of ing ces red to ach a ven vel of nce , and ost tly , the unt of man ort red to ify the ior dge ilt nto the del ore ing ( tly , or tly ) his ter ses the ing ies of ous ing els , in lar nel nes , ith ect to ose ree ons , in lar the rst two .
nel nes are non - ric ing els , ich ake tly eak ump - ons on the orm of the ion f ( ) to be ned .
by non - ric ods we ean ods ich low the ity of the ion to ase ( e . g . , by per - ter ion ) hen ore ata are ble .
his des cal k - est - bor hms , ern nel nes , ure els , and lti - yer ral rks ( ere the ber of den its can be ted ing the ata ) .
our ar - nts are red und two ons of nel nes : the rst ion ies ore lly to low res , ich ude ral rks ith a gle den yer .
in ion 123 we der ent pes of ion ses , i . e . ,
res , ing ent sub - pes of low res .
we der the ade - off een the pth of the ure and its dth ( ber of nts in ach yer ) , hus ing the nal ion of low res .
the ond ion is ore cic and rns nel nes ith a cal ker - nel .
his ion is ied rst lly in ion 123 by ght nts in the use of ate ing for ual ion .
ion 123 hen ses ore lly on cal ors , i . e . , in ich the ion f ( x ) at int x is ted by the ear ors of x ken rom the ing set .
his des nel nes in ich the nel is cal , ike the ian nel .
ese hms ely on a ior sed as a nce or ity ion een irs of les , and com - ass cal cal hms as ell as ern nel nes .
his ion is ive , not nly in ion , ion , and ity ion , but lso in old ing and emi - sed ing , ere any ern ods ave uch ity rty , and are ten tly sed on the aph of ear ors .
ing ual ern ion as an ple , we ate how the low ure of nel nes ads to lly ent ons .
lly , eep res are sed as a way to ape rom the tal ons ove .
ion 123 tes on the ges and ges of eep res , ich lve ple els of ble les een put and put .
hey can ain the red ity in the ned ons , and ase the ncy of the del ong all ree ons of unt of ing ata , unt of nal ces , and unt of man ior and - ing .
ugh a num - ber of ing hms for eep res ave een ble for ome ime , ing uch res is ill ely ved as a ult nge .
we uss ent hes to ing uch eep rks hat ows new ghs in his ion .
the ade - off een ity and non - ity has , up til tly , red rch nto ing hms ith vex ion ems .
we ave und hat non - vex ion is mes ore ent hat vex ion .
non - vex oss ons may be an ble rty of ing lex unc - ons rom eak ior dge .
123 ing els rds ai
the no - ree - nch rem for ing hms ( ert , 123 ) tes hat no ely ral - ose ing thm can ist , in the nse hat for ery ing del ere is a ata ion on ich it ill are rly ( on oth ing and est , in the ase of ite vc ion ) .
ery ing del ust ain im - cit or cit ons on the ass of ons hat it can arn .
ong the set of all ble ons , we are rly ted in a set hat ins all the sks ved in ent ior .
les of uch sks ude ual cep - ion , ory ion , ing , rol , etc .
the set oes not ust ude cic ual ion sks ( e . g man ace ion ) , but the set of all the sks hat an ent ent uld be ble to arn .
in the ing , we ill all his set of unc - ons the ai - set .
use we ant to eve ai , we ize ose sks hat are in
ugh we may ike to ink hat the man ain is hat ral - ose , it is ely ted in its ity to arn igh - nal ons .
the ins of ans and her als , ith eir ing ies , can lly ent the ai - set , and ute a ing oof of the ity of ai .
we nce hat the ai - set is a iny set of the set of all ble ons , but the ion of his iny set may be ier han it ars .
to ate his int , we ill use the ple rst sed by ( cun and ker , 123 ) .
the ion een the ina and the ual eas in the ain ets red up ely ate in sis .
if one kes the tly ble ion hat all ble ons of the ons of ers in the tic rve are ble , ere is not ugh its in the ome to ode the ect ing , and no ime ong ugh to arn it .
the at ior ion ust be ted : ome ing ust be ler to ify ( or ore ely ) han ers .
in hat ems ike an bly ate nce , a rly ood ( if not ect ) ing ern ens to be one hat ves ogy .
lly , his ing ern ens to be ery ple to ibe in ost any age ( for ple , the cal age sed by ogy can ily ify ogy - ing ing rns ugh ion nts of rve wth ors ) .
how can we be so ate hat the ect ior be so ple to ibe , yet so ive ? cun and ker ( 123 ) int out hat the ain sts in the ery ame cal rld for ich it eds to ild nal els .
nce the ion of ood ors for ing the rld pen to be ple in hat rld ( the ity and ogy of the rld is mon to oth ) .
use of his , we are wed to ope hat the ai - set , ile a iny set of all ble ons , may be ied ith a ely all unt of ion .
in ice , ior dge can be ded in a ing del by ing
ree ial nts :
the ion of the ata : pre - ing , ure ons , etc .
the ure of the ine : the ily of ons hat the ine can
ent and its ion .
the oss ion and zer : how ent ons in the ily are ted , ven a set of ing les , and ich ons are red in the nce of ing les ( ior or zer ) .
red by ( ton , to ear .
123 ) , we ify ine ing rch ate - ies in the uit of ai nto ree ies .
one is ism : nce no ood pa - ion of the ai - set is tly ble , ets ify a uch ler set for ach cic ask ugh ful and - ign of the pre - ing , the ure , and the zer .
if ask - cic gns ust be sed by and for ach new ask , ing ai ill ire an ing unt of man ort .
the - ess , his tes the ost lar ach for ing ine ing to new ems : ign a ver pre - ing ( or ata ion eme ) , so hat a ard ing del ( uch as an svm ) ill be ble to arn the ask .
a hat lar ach is to ify the ask - cic ior dge in the ure of a
cal del by tly ing ant ate res and con - pts ugh ent les ose nal ncy on ved les is ard - red .
uch of the rch in cal els ( dan , 123 ) ( lly of the ric ype ) ows his ach .
oth of ese hes , the nel ap - ach ith man - ned els or res , and the cal els ach ith man - ned ncy ure and ics , are ery ive in the ort erm use hey ten eld ick lts in ing ess on a cic ask , ing age of man ity and cit or cit dge out the ask , and ing all nts of led ata .
the ond egy is ial : ven ith a ric nel uch as the ian nel , nel nes can ate any ion , and ion ( ith the nds ) tee ion .
why uld we eed ing lse ? his ief cts the no ree nch rem .
ugh nel nes can ent any ing of a lar ing set , hey can tly ent a ery all and ery cic set of ons , ich the ing ons of his ter ill at - mpt to ize .
her his all set ers a rge art of the ai - set is ery ous , as we ill how .
in ral , hat we ink of as ric ing lgo - hms can nly ork ell ith ain pes of ata ons and not so ell ith ers .
hey can in act ent ain pes of ons tly , and not ers .
ile the ver ing / ric ing thm ach may be ful for ing cic ems , it ngs out tle ess on the oad to ai .
how can we ope to lve the ide ety of sks red to eve ai ith his bor - ive ach ? ore tly , how can we ver ope to ate ach of ese ely - ilt , ely - ned , zed les nto a ent ar - lly ent tem ? ven if we uld ild ose les , we uld eed her ing igm to be ble to ate hem nto a ent tem .
the ird egy is ism : ets ook for ing els hat can be ied to the est ble set of the ai - set , ile ing the est ble unt of nal and - ied dge for ach cic ask hin the ai - set .
the ion mes : is ere a ion of the ai - set hat can be tly im - ted ith ter ogy ?
der for ple the lem of ect ion in ter ion : we uld be ted in ing ers for at ast ral and ies of cts .
uld we ave zed hms for ach ? rly , in ral age ing , the cus of uch ent rch is on ing ate res for cic sks uch as ing or ing ext of a lar ype ( uch as pam ail , job ads , ial ews , etc ) .
are we ing to ave to do his bor - ive ork for all the ble pes of ext ? our tem ill not be ery art if we ave to lly eer new hes ach ime new a ype of ext or new pes of ect ory ust be sed .
if ere ist ore ral - ose ing els , at ast ral ugh to dle ost of the sks hat als and ans can dle , hen ing for hem may ave us a ble unt of bor in the ong run .
as sed in the ext ion , a lly ent way to ize the ind of lex ask ded for ai is hat hey lve ing hly non - ear ons ith any ons ( i . e . , ose ive ges ion ten ) .
his is tic in ion ith a ior hat oth ons are ore ely , i . e . ,
ing few or all ons .
we ean f to be oth hen the lue of f ( x ) and of its ive f ( x ) are ose to the ues of f ( x + ) and f ( x + ) ely hen x and x + are ose as ned by a nel or a nce .
his ter ces ral nts hat the ess ior one is ent to arn hly - ing ons .
his is ely ted to the rse of ity , but as we nd out our ion , it is not the ber of ons so uch as the unt of ion hat ers .
a one - nal ion uld be ult to arn , and any igh - nal ons can be ted ell ugh ith a oth ion , so hat non - ric ods ing nly on the oth ior can ill ive ood lts .
we all ong ors a ype of ior dge hat ves igh ity ( or low ity ) to a ery all set of ons ( lly ted to a all set of sks ) , and oad ors a ype of ior dge hat ive ely igh ity to a der set of ant ons ( ich may ver a rge set of sks hin the ai - set ) .
ong ors are ask - cic , ile oad ors are ore ted to the ral ure of our rld .
we uld ely ure hat if a ion has any cal ons ( nce is not ery oth ) , hen it is not ble ess ong ior dge is at and .
ely , his is not rue .
rst , ere is no son to eve hat ess ors uld ave a ial tus ver her pes of ors .
ing ess ors hen we now hat the ons we ant to arn are non - oth uld eem ter - ive .
her oad ors are ble .
a ple way to ene a ior is to ene a age ( e . g . , a ing age ) ith ich we ess ons , and vor ons hat ave a low rov ity in hat age , i . e .
ons ose ram is ort .
der ing the c ing age ( ong ith ard ies hat ome ith it ) to ene our ior , and ing ons uch as g ( x ) = sin ( x ) ( ith x a eal lue ) or g ( x ) = ity ( x ) ( ith x a ary tor of xed ion ) .
ese uld be ely asy to arn ith a all ber of les use eir ion is ely ort in c and hey are ery ble der the ing ior , ite the act hat hey are hly non - oth .
we do not ate the cit use of rov ity in a nal ing age to ign new ing hms , but we use his ple to ate hat it is ble to arn tly lex ons ( in the nse hey ary a lot ) ing oad ors , by ing a non - cal ing thm , ing to ors her han the ess ior .
his ght ple and the udy of toy ems ike the ity lem in the est of the ter lso ows hat the ain nge is to ign ing hms hat can ver ons of the ata hat tly ibe ies in it .
his is in ast ith the ach of ing the ons ent in the ing ata , and ing to ely on cal ess to tly ll in the ace een the ing les .
as we ned ier , ere may ist oad ors , ith gly ple de - ion , hat tly uce the ace of ble ons in ate ays .
in ual ems , an ple of uch a oad ior , ich is red by res ias rds pic ngs , is the ind of ity sed in nal net - rks for ual ern ion ( cun et al . , 123 , cun et al . , 123 ) .
his ill be ned in ail in ion 123
her ple of oad ior , ich we uss in ion 123 , is hat the ons to be ned uld be ble as lti -
ple els of ion of ler ons , ere ent els of ons can be wed as ent els of ion .
the ion of ept and of rac - ion hat we alk out is her oad and ply ans a dom ity gly ent of the ved ata , and ful in ing a ion of its tri - ion hat ses ell .
ons at wer els of ion uld be und ful for ing ome ler cts of the ata ion , so hat it is ssi - ble to rst arn the ler ons and hen ose hem to arn ore act pts .
als and ans do arn in his way , ith ler pts ier in ife , and her - vel ons ter , sed in rms of the sly ned pts .
not all ons can be sed in his way , but ans ear to ave uch a int .
if uch a chy did not ist , ans uld be ble to arn new pts in any der .
nce we can ope hat his ype of ior may be ful to elp ver the ai - set , but yet cic ugh to ude the ast ity of ess
it is a sis of the ent ork hat ing hms hat ild uch ply red res fer a ing nue for ing ine ing rds ai .
her ted sis is hat one uld not der the rge ety of sks ely , but as ent cts of a ore ral lem : hat of ing the sic ure of the rld , as een say ugh the yes and ars of a ing mal or a ung ild .
his is an nce of lti - ask ing ere it is ear hat the ent sks are a ong ity .
his ows us to ope hat ter ing uch a tem on a rge ety of sks in the ai - set , the tem may ize to a new ask rom nly a few led les .
we ize hat any sks in the ai - set may be ilt und mon ons , ich can be ood as a set of ted pts .
if our oal is to ild a ing ine for the ai - set , our rch uld con -
ate on ing ing els ith the ing res :
a hly ble way to ify ior dge , nce a ing thm
hat can ion ith a rge ire of res .
a ing thm hat can eal ith eep res , in ich a ion ves the ion of any ate pts , and ple els of
a ing thm hat can dle rge ies of ons , zed
ith ons of ual ers .
a ing thm hat can be ned tly ven , hen the ber of ing les mes ery rge .
his des ing hms uir - ing to ore and ate ple mes ver the ole ing set , or for ich the unt of ons per ple ses as ore les are een .
his gly est the use of on - ine ing .
a ing thm hat can ver pts hat can be red ily ong ple sks and ple ies ( lti - ask ing ) , and hat can ake age of rge nts of led ata ( emi - sed ing ) .
123 ing res , low and eep
123 ure pes
in his ion , we ene the ons of low and eep res .
an mal ion of eir ive ges and age is ted ing les .
a ore mal ion of the ons of low res ith cal oth - ess ( ich des ost ern nel ods ) is ven in the ext ion .
ing the ion of the sic ook ons ( sky and ert , 123 ) , it is ive to ize ent pes of ing res and to yze eir ons and ges .
to x eas , der the ple ase of ion in ich a ete bel is ced by the ing ine y = f ( x , w ) , ere x is the put ern , and w a ter ich xes the ily of ons f hat can be ted by the ure f = ( f ( , w ) , w w ) .
ure 123 : ent pes of low res .
( a ) ype - 123 : xed ing and ear or; ( b ) ype - 123 : ate ers and ear tor ( nel ine ) ; ( c ) ype - 123 : ple ble sis ons and ear tor ( ral net ith one den yer , rbf ork ) .
nal ons , ike any tly lar ing els , are hal - low res .
ent pes of low res are ted in ure 123
ype - 123 res ave xed ing in the rst yer ( e . g . , ons ) .
ype - 123 res ave ate ers in the rst yer ( e . g . , nel nes ) .
ype - 123 res ave ple ble sis ons in the rst yer ( e . g . , ral net ith one den yer , rbf ork ) .
all ree ave a ear ion in the
123 . 123 low ure ype 123
xed pre - ing lus ear tor , ure 123 ( a ) : the est low chi - ure is sed of a xed ing yer ( mes led res or ba - sis ons ) , wed by a ear tor .
the ype of ear tor sed , and the way it is ned is ied ( mum - gin , tic ion , ron ,
tor : f ( x ) = pk
red ror ion . . . . ) .
the ily f is rly zed in the ter 123 wii ( x ) .
his ype of ure is ely sed in cti - cal ons .
nce the pre - ing is xed ( and and - ted ) , it is ily ask - cic in ice .
it is ble to ine a low ype - 123 ine hat uld ize the ete ai - set .
for ple , we uld ine a ine in ich ach ure is a ber of the ai - set , nce ach lar ber of the ai - set can be ted ith a ght tor ing all ros , ept for a gle 123 at the ght ace .
ile ere bly ist ore act ays to rly ame - ize the ire ai - set , the ber of ary res uld ely be ive .
ore tly , we do not now tly the ons of the ai - set , so his is not
123 . 123 low ure ype 123
f ( x ) = b + pn
ate ers lus ear tor , ure 123 ( b ) : ext on the ale of ity is the nal nel ine ure .
the ing is a tor of ues ing rom the ion of a nel ion k ( x , xi ) to ach ing ple 123 ik ( x , xi ) , ere n is the ber of ing les , the pa - ter w ins all the i and the ias b .
in ect , the rst yer can be een as a ies of ate ers in ich the tes are the ing les .
ype - 123 res can be een as ial rms of ype - 123 res in ich the res are ata - ent , ich is to say i ( x ) = k ( x , xi ) .
his is a ple orm of nsu - sed ing , for the rst yer .
ugh the ous nel ick ( see ( opf et al . , 123 ) ) , ype - 123 res can be een as a act way of ing ype - 123 res , ing ome hat may be too rge to be cal .
if the nel ion ses the cer ion it can be sed as an ner uct een ure ors k ( x , xi ) =< ( x ) , ( xi ) > , ing us a ear ion een the
ter ors in oth ons : w for ype - 123 res spi i ( xi )
ery ive ure of uch res is hat for ral mon oss ons ( e . g . , red ror , gin oss ) ing hem ves a vex ion ram .
ile ese ies are ely ved as the gic ind nel ods , hey uld not act us rom the act hat the rst yer of a nel ine is ten ust a ies of ate ers .
in ost nel nes , the nel is sed as a ind of ate ers , but her ces are ble .
ing ask - cic ior dge , one can ign a nel hat tes the ght ons for the ask .
his mes at the ost of wer ncy in rms of man bor .
hen a nel cts ike a ate her , we all it cal : k ( x , xi ) tes een ues of x hat are ear xi and ose hat are not .
ome of the cal lts in his ter cus on the ian nel , ere ess nds to all ean nce .
one uld say hat one of the ain ues ith nel ine ith cal els is hat hey are tle ore han ate ers .
it is ble to use els hat are non - cal yet not ask - cic , uch as the ear els and ial ker - els .
ver , ost ers ave een ing ear els or cal els .
ear els are ype - 123 low res , ith eir ous ons .
cal els ave een lar use hey ake ive nse ( it is ier to ert ior dge ) , ile ial els end to ize ery rly hen apo -
ing ( e . g . , sly ing ) .
the ess ior cit in cal els is ite ble for a lot of the ons hat ave een red , eas the ior ied by ial els is ess ear .
ing the nel uld ove us to ype - 123 low res or eep res bed low .
123 . 123 low ure ype 123
ple ble sis ons lus ear tor , ure 123 ( c ) : in ype - 123 low res , the rst yer sts of ple sis ons hat are ble ugh sed ing .
his can ove the ncy of the ion ion , by ing the sis ons to a ask .
ple ble sis ons ude ear ons wed by int - ise non - ies and ian ial - sis unc - ons ( rbf ) .
nal ral rks ith one den yer , and rbf rks ong to hat ory .
nel nes in ich the nel ion is ned ( and ple ) lso ong to the low ype - 123 ory .
any ing hms ong to his ass as ell .
ike ith pes 123 and 123 , the put is a non - ear ion of the ers to be ned .
nce the oss ons zed by ing are ely to be non - vex in the ers .
the ion of ype - 123 res is hat zzy , nce it ies on the ill - ned ept of ple zed
we uld ely ize hat the ary een the ous ate - ies is hat zzy .
for ple , ing the den yer of a one - den - yer ral net ( a ype - 123 low ure ) is a non - vex lem , but one uld mag - ine ing a den yer so rge hat all ble den nit ons uld be ent rom the art .
nly the put yer uld eed to be ned .
ore cif - lly , hen the ber of den its mes ery rge , and an 123 zer is sed on the put hts , uch a ral net mes a nel ine , ose nel has a ple orm hat can be ted lly ( gio et al . , 23b ) .
if we use the gin oss his mes an svm ith a lar nel .
ugh ity is nly ved in the cal mit of an ite ber of den its , we ure hat ion of gle - den - yer ral rks mes ier as the ber of den its mes ger .
if gle - den - yer ral ets ave any age ver vms , it is hat hey can , in ple , eve lar nce ith a ler rst yer ( nce the ers of the rst yer can be zed for
ote lso hat our cal lts on cal nel nes are ted in ope , and ost are ved for cic els uch as the ian nel , or for cal els ( in the nse of k ( u , v ) ing ear ero hen ||u v|| mes rge ) .
ver , the nts ted low ing the ess of nel ma - nes are ore ral .
123 . 123 eep res
eep res are ons of any ers of ive non - ear nts , in her rds , hey are des of zed non - ear les hat ain ble ers at all els .
eep res low the ion of ide
ies of ons in a ore act orm han low res , use hey can ade ace for ime ( or dth for pth ) ile ing the ime - ace uct ler , as sed low .
the uts of the ate ers are kin to rme - ate lts on the way to ing the nal put .
res ced by the wer ers ent wer - vel ons , hat are ned to orm igh - vel res at the ext yer , ing her - vel ons .
123 the pth - dth off
any cic ion can be ted by a bly ned low tec - ure or by a eep ure .
rly , hen ing a ily of ons , we ave the ice een low or eep res .
the ant ons are : 123
how rge is the ing ure ( ith how any ers , how uch ion to uce the put ) ; 123
how uch ual bor is ved in ing the ure to the ask .
ing a ber of les , we all ate hat eep res are ten ore ent ( in rms of ber of nal nts and ers ) for ing mon ons .
mal ses of the nal ity of low its can be und in tad ( 123 ) or der ( 123 ) .
hey int in the ame ion : low its are uch ess ive han eep nes .
let us rst der the ask of ing two n - bit ary ers .
the ost ral uit ves ing the its air by air and ing the rry .
the rry rop - ion kes o ( n ) eps , and lso o ( n ) are ces .
nce the ost ral ure for ary ion is a eep one , ith o ( n ) ers and o ( n ) nts .
a low ure can ent any ean ula sed in ive mal orm ( dnf ) , by ing the rms ( and ons ) in the rst yer , and the ent or ion ing a ear ier ( a old ate ) ith a low old .
ely , ven for ple ean ons uch as ary ion and ion , the ber of rms can be ely rge ( up to o ( 23n ) for n - bit uts in the rst ase ) .
the ter try has in act ted a ble unt of ort to ize the ion of ial ean ons , but the est it can put on a gle hip has nly out 123 put its ( a 123 - bit ram hip , as of 123 ) .
his is why cal tal its , e . g . , for ing or ing two ers are ilt ith ple ers of gic tes : eir 123 - yer ion ( kin to a kup ble ) uld be ely ive .
see ( off and zzi , 123 ) for a ous ion of his ion in the ext of ing res .
her ing ple is the ean ity ion .
the n - bit ean
ity ion can be ted in at ast ve ays :
( 123 ) ith n isy - ned xor tes ( an n - yer ure or a ent uit
ith one xor ate and n ime eps ) ;
( 123 ) ith n 123 xor tes ged in a ree ( a 123 n yer ure ) , for a tal
of o ( n log n ) ts;
( 123 ) a dnf ula ith o ( 23n ) rms ( two ers ) .
ure 123 has igh pth and low dth ( all unt of ing nts ) , ure 123 is a ood off een pth and dth , and ure 123 has igh dth and low pth .
if one ows the use of lti - put ary old tes ( ear ers ) in ion to nal gic tes , two ore res are ble ( sky and ert , 123 ) :
( 123 ) a 123 - yer ure ted as ows .
the rst yer has n ary esh - old tes ( ear ers ) in ich nit i dds the put its and cts i , nce ing the ate xi = ( sum of its i ) .
the ond yer ins ( n 123 ) / 123 and tes hat ute ( ian d ( n ot 123 ) ) for all i hat are odd .
the ast yer is a ple or ate .
( 123 ) a 123 - yer ure in ich the rst yer is cal to hat of the 123 - yer ar - ure ove , and the ond yer is a ear old ate ( ear ier ) ere the ght for put xi is ual to ( 123 ) i .
the rth ure res a mic nge ( acy ) on the ght ear in n , ile the ast one res a mic nge ial in n .
a oof hat n - bit ity res o ( 23n ) tes to be ted by a pth - 123 ean uit ( ith and , not and or tes ) can be und in tai ( 123 ) .
in rem 123 ( ion 123 . 123 ) we ate a lar ult for ing res : an ial ber of rms is red ith a ian nel ine in der to ent the ity ion .
in any ces , ace ( or dth ) can be ded for ime ( or pth ) ith ble
ese ive lts may eem ent of the sic lts in sky and rts ook ons ( sky and ert , 123 ) .
his uld ome as no ise : low res ( rly of ype 123 and 123 ) all nto sky and rts ral ion of a ron and are ect to any of its ons .
her ing ple in ich ing ers is ial is the ast ier orm thm ( fft ) .
nce the ete ier orm is a ear ion , it can be med by a rix ion ith n 123 lex ons , ich can all be med in lel , wed by o ( n 123 ) ons to ect the ums .
ver the fft thm can uce the tal ost to 123 123 n 123 n , ons , ith the off of ing 123 n ial eps ing n 123 ons ach .
his ple ows hat , ven ith ear ons , ing ers ows us to ake age of the sic ies in the ask .
use ach ble can be her ent , ent , or ted in a erm , ere are m = 23n ent ble rms hen the uit has n uts .
the set of all ble dnf lae ith k rms and n uts has c ( m , k ) nts ( the ber of ons of k nts rom m ) .
rly hat set ( ich is ted ith the set of ons ble ith k rms ) ows ery ast ith k .
ing rom k 123 to k rms ses the ber of ons by a tor ( m k ) / k .
hen k is not ose to m , the ize of the set of dnf lae is ial in the ber of uts n .
ese nts uld est hat nly an lly ( in n ) all ion of all ean ons ire a ess han ial ber of
we aim hat ost ons hat can be ted tly by eep tec - res not be ted by a act low ure .
ine ing the cal ons ver k ers of a cal uit nto a dnf ula .
the op - ons med by the tes on ach of the ers are ely to get ned nto a ber of rms hat uld be ial in the nal ber of ers .
to see his , der a k yer cal uit ere ery odd yer has and tes ( ith the ion of ing nts ) and ery ven yer has or tes .
ery and - or ive ers nds to a sum of cts in ulo - 123 tic .
the ole uit is the ion of k / 123 uch ums of cts , and it is hus a eep iza - ion of a ula .
in ral , hen a red ion is ded nto a gle sum of cts , one ets a ber of rms hat can be ial in the ber of els .
a lar non ins why ost act dnf lae ire an ial ber of rms hen ten as a ive mal orm ( cnf ) ula .
a vey of ore ral lts in nal ity of ean cir - its can be und in der ( 123 ) .
for ple , tad ( 123 ) how hat for all k , ere are pth k + 123 its of ear ize hat ire ial ize to ate ith pth k its .
his ies hat ost ons ble tly ith a eep ure uld ire a ery rge ber of nts if ted ith a low one .
nce ing ves to low res uly its the rum of ons hat can be ted tly and ned tly ( at ast in a cal nse ) .
in lar , hly - ble ons ( in the nse of hav - ing igh ies in eir ier rum ) are ult to ent ith a uit of pth 123 ( ial et al . , 123 ) .
the lts hat we ent in ion 123 eld a lar ion : ing hly - ble ons ith a ian nel ine is
123 the its of ing bal tes
ore ing nto the mal sis of cal els , we are the nel nes ( ype - 123 res ) ith eep res ing les .
one of the tal ems in ern ion is how to dle tra - ass ity .
ing the ex - ple of ter ion , we can ure the set of all the ble ges of the ter e on a 123 123 xel rid as a set of ous lds in the xel ace ( e . g . , a old for wer ase and one for ive ) .
the es on a old can be inu - sly hed nto ach her by ing a ath on the old .
the ity of the old at one ion nds to the ber of ent ons hat can can be ied to an age ile ing its ory .
for ten let - ter ies , the old has a igh ion : ers can be ted ing fne rms ( 123 ers ) , ted ing an tic eet ion ( igh men - ion ) , or ied so as to ver the nge of ble ing les , pes , and oke ths .
ven for ple ter ges , the old is ery non - ear , ith igh ure .
to nce ves of hat , der the ape of the ter w .
any xel in the wer alf of the age ill go rom ite to ack and ite ain our mes as the w is ted lly hin the age ame rom eft to ght .
his is the ign of a hly non - ear ace .
ver , lds for her ter ies are ely ned .
der the ape of a tal u and an o at the ame ion .
hey ave any els in mon , any ore els in act han ith a ted ver - ion of the ame u .
nce the nce een the u and o lds is ler han the nce een two us ted by a few els .
her ght out the igh ure of ese lds can be ned rom the ple in ure 123 : the ent tor of the tal ion old ges tly as we ate the im - age nly one xel to the ght , ing igh ure .
as sed in ion 123 , any nel hms ake an cit ion of a lly oth ion ( e . g . , lly ear in the ase of vms ) und ach ing ple xi .
nce a igh cur - ure ies the ity of a rge ber of ing les in der to ver all the red sts and rns ith lly ant or lly ear ces .
his ngs us to hat we ive as the ain ing of ate - sed ods : a ery rge ber of tes may be red in der to ver ach old ith ugh tes to oid ons .
ore , the ber of ary tes can row lly ith the sic ion of a ass - ant old .
the nly way to ent the lem ith a ype - 123 tec - ure is to ign ity res for ing tes ( nel ons ) uch hat two rns hat are on the ame old are med lar .
ely , ing uch ity res , ven for a lem as sic as git ion , has ved ult , ite ost 123 ars of ive rch .
ore , if uch a ood ask - cic nel ere lly ned , it may be ble to her ses
to her ate the ion , der the lem of ing and ing a ple tif ( say , of ize s = 123 els ) hat can ear at d ent ons in a mly ite age ith n els ( say 123 els ) .
to lve his lem , a ple nel - ine ure uld ire one ate of the tif for ach ssi - ble ion .
his res n . d ary ons .
an ure hat ows for lly cal ure ors uld ely ire s . d ary ons .
we uld ize hat his ial ity ( ure ors hat end on els hin a ted ius in the age ane ) is nct rom the ity of nel unc - ons ( ure ors hat uce rge ues nly for put ors hat are hin a ted ius in the put tor ace ) .
in act , lly cal ure ors ave non - cal nse in the ace of put ors , nce eir put is ent of the put els hey are not ted to .
a tly ore ted ple is the ask of ing and ing a ern sed of two ent ifs .
ach tif ies s els , and can ear at d ent ons tly of ach her .
a nel ine uld eed a ate ate for ach ble nce of the two ifs , i . e . , n . 123 ing nts .
by ast , a rly ned ype - 123 ure uld ely ire a set of cal ure ors for all the ons of the rst ifs , and a lar set for the ond tif .
the tal unt of ary ons is a ere 23s . d .
we do not now of any nel hat uld low to tly dle nal res .
an ven ore ire ion urs if the und is not mly ite , but can ain dom ter .
a nel ine uld bly eed any ent tes ing the red ifs on top of any ent nds .
by con - ast , the lly - ted eep ure bed in the ous aph ill dle his ion ust ne .
we ave ied his ype of ior lly
( see les in ion 123 ) .
ese ght nts ate the ons of nel nes due to the act hat eir rst yer is ted to ing the ing rns ith bal tem - tes .
by ast , the ype - 123 ure hat ses lly cal ure ors les the ion ter and the ter ily and tly .
oth res are low , but ile ach nel ion is ted in a all rea of the put ace , the lly cal ure ors are ted by a uge ( n s ) - nal sub - ace of the put ace ( nce hey nly ook at s els ) .
eep res ith lly - cal ure ors are ven ore ent ( see ion 123 ) .
nce the lim - ons of nel nes are not ust due to eir ess , but lso to the cal ter of eir nse ion ( cal in put ace , not in the ace of age
123 tal ion of cal ing
a rge ion of the ent ork in cal ine ing has sed on non - ric ing hms ich ely ely , tly or tly , on a ess ior .
a ess ior ors ons f uch hat hen x x , f ( x ) f ( x ) .
nal ior dge is sed by ing the ace of the ata and the lar ion of ity een les ( lly sed as a nel ion ) .
his ass of ing hms des ost ces of the nel ine hms ( opf et al . , 123 ) , uch as ort tor nes ( vms ) ( ser et al . , 123 , tes and nik , 123 ) or ian ses ( ams and sen , 123 ) , but lso sed ing hms hat mpt to cap - ure the old ure of the ata , uch as lly ear ing ( eis and aul , 123 ) , map ( aum et al . , 123 ) , nel pca ( opf et al . , 123 ) , ian aps ( kin and ogi , 123 ) , old ing ( and , 123 ) , and ral ing hms ( see iss ( 123 ) for a iew ) .
ore tly , ere has lso een uch est in non - ric emi - sed ing lgo - hms , uch as zhu et al .
( 123 ) , hou et al .
( 123 ) , kin et al .
( 123 ) , eau et al .
( 123 ) , ich lso all in his ory , and are any eas ith old
nce his is a rge ass of hms and one hat ues to act ion , it is ile to ate its ons .
nce ese ods are any har - ics ith cal non - ric cal ing hms uch as the k - est ors and the zen ows ion and ity ion lgo - hms ( uda and art , 123 ) ich ave een own to fer rom the so - led rse of ity , it is cal to ate the ing ion : to hat ex - ent do ese ern nel ods fer rom a lar lem ? see ( dle et al . , 123 ) for a ent and ily ble ion of the rse of ity for cal non - ric ods .
to ore his ion , we cus on hms in ich the ned ion is sed in rms of a ear ion of nel ons ied on the ing
f ( x ) = b +
ere we ave ded an nal ias erm b .
the set d = ( 123 , .
, zn ) ins ing les zi = xi for sed ing , zi = ( xi , yi ) for sed ing .
get lue yi can ake a ial ing lue for emi - sed ing .
the is are ars sen by the ing thm ing d , and kd ( , ) is the ker - nel ion , a ric ion ( mes ted to be ive emi - ite ) , ich may be sen by ing nto unt all the xis .
a cal nel ion is the ian nel ,
k ( u , v ) = e 123
ith the dth ing how cal the nel is .
see gio et al .
( 123 ) to see hat lle , map , ian aps and her ral old ing hms uch as ral ing can be zed and ten in the orm of eq .
123 for a est int x , but ith a ent nel ( hat is ata - ent , lly ing a ind of ion of a ata - ent nel ) .
one ins the ncy of cal non - ric ors by ely ing the per - ter hat ols the ity of the tor as n ses .
lly , the nel uld be wed to ome ore and ore cal , so hat tis - cal ias oes to ero , but the ive ber of les ved in the tor at x ( ual to k for the k - est bor tor ) uld ase as n ses , so hat cal nce is lso ven to 123
for a ide ass of nel ion ors , the nal nce and red ias can be own to be ten as ows ( dle et al . , 123 ) :
ted ror =
nd + 123 ,
ith 123 and 123 not ing on n nor on the ion d .
nce an mal and - 3+d , and the ing ion ror ( not unt - dth is sen nal to n ing the ise ) ges in 123 / ( 3+d ) , ich mes ery low for rge d .
der for ple the ase in ber of les red to get the ame vel of ror , in 123 ion sus d ons .
if 123 is the ber of les red to get a lar vel of ror , to get the ame vel of ror in d ons res on the der of n ( 3+d ) / 123 les , i . e . , the red ber of les is ial in d .
for the k - est bor ier , a lar ult is ned ( app and esh ,
ted ror = e +
ere e is the tic ror , d is the ion and n the ber of les .
ote ver hat , if the ata ion is ted on a wer nal old , it is the old ion hat ers .
for ple , hen ata ies on
a oth wer - nal old , the nly ity hat ers to a k - est bor ier is the ity of the old , nce it nly ses the ean ces een the ear ors .
any sed and emi - sed ing hms ely on a aph ith one ode per ple , in ich rby les are ted ith an dge ted by the ean nce be - een hem .
if ata lie on a low - nal old hen sic ces in his aph ach sic ces on the old ( aum et al . , 123 ) , as the ber of les ses .
ver , nce can be lly wer for
123 mum ber of ses red
in his ion we ent lts ing the ber of red ses ( nce of ain - ing les ) of a nel ine ith ian nel may row rly ith the ber of ons of the get ion hat ust be red in der to eve a ven ror vel .
123 . 123 ult for sed ing
the ing rem hts the ber of ign ges hat a ian nel ine can eve , hen it has k ses ( i . e . , k ort ors , or at ast k ing
rem 123 ( rem 123 of itt ( 123 ) ) .
let f : r r ted by a ian nel ine ( eq .
123 ) ith k ses ( non - ero is ) .
hen f has at ost 23k ros .
we uld ike to say ing out nel nes in rd , and we can do his ply by ing a ght ine in rd and the ber of ign ges hat the ion ion f can eve ong hat ine .
ary 123
ose hat the ing lem is uch hat in der to eve a ven ror vel for les rom a ion p ith a ian nel ine ( eq .
123 ) , hen f ust nge ign at ast 23k mes ong ome ght ine ( i . e . , in the ase of a ier , the ion ace ust be sed at ast 23k mes by hat ght ine ) .
hen the nel ine ust ave at ast k ses ( non - ero is ) .
a oof can be und in gio et al .
( 23a ) .
ple 123
der the ion ace own in ure 123 , ich is a dal ion .
one may ake age of the bal ity to arn it ith few pa - ers ( hus ing few les ) , but ith an fne ion of ans , ary 123 ies one uld eed at ast m 123 = 123 ans .
for ore lex sks in her ion , the ity of the ion ace uld kly ake ing cal hen ing uch a cal nel hod .
of rse , one nly eks to ate the ion ace s , and oes not ily eed to arn it tly : ary 123 ays ing out the nce of an ier - to - arn ion ace ing s .
for nce , in the ple of
ure 123 : the ted ine ses the ion ace 123 mes : one hus eds at ast 123 ans to arn it ith an fne ion of ans ith ame dth .
ure 123 , the ted ine uld urn out to be a ood ugh ted ion ace if ost les ere far rom the rue ion ace , and his ine can be ned ith nly two ans .
the ove rem lls us hat in der to ent a ion hat lly ies a lot , in the nse hat its ign ong a ght ine ges any mes , a ian nel ine res any ing les and any nal nts .
ote hat it ays ing out the ity of the put ace , but we ght ect to ave to arn ons hat ary ore hen the ata is igh - nal .
the ext rem rms his ion in the ial ase of the d - its ity ion :
ity : ( 123 , .
, bd ) ( 123 , 123 ) d 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 if pd
123 bi is ven
ing his tly ple ion ith ans red on nts in ( 123 , 123 ) d is lly ult , in the nse hat it res a ber of ans ial in d ( for a xed ian dth ) .
ote hat our ary 123 oes not ply to the d - its ity ion , so it nts her ype of cal ion ( not ong a ine ) .
ver , it is lso ble to ove a ery ong ult for ity .
rem 123
let f ( x ) = b 23d
123 ik ( xi , x ) be an fne ion of ans ith ame dth red on nts xi xd .
if f ves the ity lem , hen ere are at ast 123 non - ero nts i .
a oof can be und in gio et al .
( 23a ) .
the und in rem 123 is ght , nce it is ble to lve the ity lem ith tly 123 ans and a ias , for nce by ing a ive ias and ing a
ive ght on ach ple ing ity ( xi ) = 123
hen ned to arn the ity ion , a svm may arn a ion hat oks ike the ite of the ity on est nts ( ile ill ing lly on ing nts ) , but it is an act of the cic try of the lem , and nly urs hen the ing set ize is ate red to xd| = 23d ( see gio et al .
( 123 ) for ils ) .
ote hat if the ers of the ans are not ted ore to be nts in the ing set ( i . e . , a ype - 123 low ure ) , it is ble to lve the ity lem ith nly d + 123 ans and no ias ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
one may gue hat ity is a ple ete toy lem of tle est .
but ven if we ave to ict the sis to ete les in ( 123 , 123 ) d for cal ons , the ity ion can be ded to a oth ion on the ( 123 , 123 ) d per - ube ing nly on the ous sum 123 + .
rem 123 is hus a sis to gue hat the ber of ans ded to arn a ion ith any ons in a ous ace may ale rly ith the ber of ese ons , and hus bly lly in the ion .
123 . 123 lts for emi - sed ing
in his ion we cus on hms of the ype bed in ent ers ( zhu et al . , 123 , hou et al . , 123 , kin et al . , 123 , eau et al . , 123 ) , ich are aph - sed , non - ric , emi - sed ing hms .
ote hat ive vms ( ims , 123 ) , ich are her ass of emi - sed hms , are ady ect to the ons of ary 123
the aph - sed hms we con - der ere can be een as ing the ing ost ion , as own in eau et al .
( 123 ) :
c ( y ) = k yl 123 + y l y + k y 123
ith y = ( 123 , .
, yn ) the ted els on oth led and led ata , and l the ( un - zed ) aph ian rix , ved ugh l = 123 / 23w 123 / 123 rom a nel ion k een nts uch hat the ram rix w , ith wij = k ( xi , xj ) , nds to the hts of the ges in the aph , and d is a nal
rix ing in - ree : dii = pj wij .
ere , yl = ( 123 , .
, yl ) is the tor
of ted els on the l led les , ose own els are ven by yl = ( 123 , .
, yl ) , and one may ain yl = yl as in zhu et al .
( 123 ) by ing 123
we ene a ion ith ant bel as a ted set of the aph ere all des xi ave the ame ted bel ( ign of yi ) , and uch hat no her ode can be ded ile ing ese ies .
ion of the ost ion of eq .
123 can lso be een as a bel ion thm , i . e . , els are ead und led les , ith ess ing ned by the ure of the aph , i . e . , by the nel .
an ive iew of bel ion sts hat a ion of the old ear a led ( e . g . , ive ) ple ill be ely led ely , as the ple ads its nce by ion on the aph ing the ing old .
hus , the ber of ons ith ant bel uld be on the ame der as ( or ess han ) the ber of led les .
his is asy to see in the ase of a rse ram rix w .
we ene a ion ith ant bel as a ted set of the aph ere all des xi ave the ame
ted bel ( ign of yi ) , and uch hat no her ode can be ded ile ing ese ies .
the ing ion hen lds ( ote hat it is lso rue , but ial , hen w nes a lly ted aph ) .
ion 123
ter ing a bel ion thm ing the ost of eq .
123 , the ber of ons ith ant ted bel is ess han ( or ual to ) the ber of led les .
a oof can be und in gio et al .
( 23a ) .
the nce is hat we ill eed at ast as any led les as ere are ons in the ass , as one ves by all eps in the ood aph rom one ous ion of ame bel to an - her .
ain we see the ame ype of non - ric ing hms ith a cal nel , ere in the ase of emi - sed ing : we may eed out as any la - led les as ere are ons , ven ugh an ily rge ber of ese ons uld ave een zed ore tly han by eir ion .
123 ess sus ity : rse of ity
der a ian svm and how hat tor ges as one ies , the per - ter of the ian nel .
for rge one uld ect the ted ion to be ery oth , eas for all one uld ect the ted ion to be ery cal , in the nse sed ier : the ear ors of x ave ing nce in the ape of the tor at x .
the ing ion lls us hat ens hen is rge , or hen we con -
der hat a all ose ius is all red to .
ion 123
for the ian nel ier , as ses and mes rge red ith the ter of the ata , hin the est ere ing the ata
the ion ace mes ear fpi i = 123 ( e . g . , for vms ) , or lse the mal
tor of the ion ace mes a ear ion of two ere ace mal ors , ith ach ere red on a ted age of the les of the ing ass .
a oof can be und in gio et al .
( 23a ) .
ote hat ith his ion we see rly hat hen mes rge , a nel ier mes non - cal ( it hes a ear ier ) .
ver , his non - ity is at the ice of ing the ion ace to be ery oth , ing it ult to del hly ing ion ces .
his is the nce of the ade - off een ess and ity in any lar non - ric els ( ing the cal nes uch as k - est - bor and zen ows hms ) .
now der in hat ses a ian nel ine is cal ( ing out all ) .
der a est int x hat is ear the ion ace .
we aim hat the ion of the ion ace is ted by the ors xi of x in the ing set , ing the tor cal in its ive .
if we der the i xed ( i . e . , ing eir nce on the ing xis ) , hen it is ous hat the ion f ( x ) is ted by the ear ors xi of x , nce k ( x , xi ) 123 kly hen ||x i|| / mes rge .
ver , the i can be ced by all the xjs .
the ing ion rts hat sue by ing at the rst ive of f .
ure 123 : for cal old ing hms uch as lle , map and nel pca , the old ent ane at x is in the pan of the nce ors een est int x and its ors xi in the ing set .
his kes ese hms ive to the rse of ity , hen the old is igh - nal and not ery at .
ion 123
for the ian nel ier , the mal of the ent of the ion ace at x is ned to ely lie in the pan of the ors ( x xi ) ith ||x i|| not rge red to and xi in the ing set .
tch of the oof
a int x of the ion ace is
the tor is f ( x ) =pi ik ( x , xi ) .
the mal tor of the ent ane at
123 k ( x , xi ) .
ach erm is a tor nal to the nce tor xix .
his sum is ted by the rms ith ||x i|| not rge red to .
we are hus eft ith f ( x ) ely in the pan of the nce ors x xi ith xi a ear bor of x .
the i ing nly ars , hey nly nce the ght of ach bor xi in hat ear ion .
nce ugh f ( x ) can be ced by xi far rom x , the ion ace ear x has a mal tor hat is ned to ely lie in the pan of the ors x xi ith xi ear x .
q . e . d .
the int of f ( x )
x ing in the pan of the ors x xi for ors xi of x is not ong if the old of est ( e . g . , the ion of the ion ace ith igh ity ) has low ity .
eed if hat ity is ler or ual to the ber of ing ors , hen ere is no int at all .
how - ver , hen ing lex ies ing any ors of ion , the ion of est may ave ery igh ion ( e . g . , der the ect of ons hat ave ily rge ion , uch as ges in ter , und , etc
ges ) .
for uch a lex hly - ing get ion , we lso eed a ery cal tor ( all ) in der to ely ent all the red ons .
ith a all , the ber of ing ors ill be all red to the ion of the old of est , ing his ity in the ive a ong int , and ing the ing rse of ity ent .
his ion of ity in the nse of the ive ows us to ene a all und ach est int x , ing ors hat ave a ing nce on f ( x ) ess hin hat all ins the ion ace to be ely her ear ( ase of vms ) or a lar tic orm ( the ion ace mal tor is a ear ion of two ors ned by the ter of ass of les of ach ass ) .
let n be the ber of uch lls ary to ver the ion ere the lue of the tor is red ( e . g . , ear the get ion ace , in the ase of ion ems ) .
let k be the est ber uch hat one eds at ast k les in ach all to ach ror vel .
the ber of les hus red is kn .
to see hat n can be ial in ome ion , der the mum ius r of all ese lls and the ius r of .
if has sic ion d , hen n uld be as rge as the ber of ius - r lls hat can ile a d - nal old
of ius r , ich is on the der of ( cid : 123 ) r
in gio et al .
( 123 ) we ent lar lts hat ply to sed arn - ing hms uch as non - ric old ing hms ( eis and aul , 123 , aum et al . , 123 , opf et al . , 123 , kin and ogi , 123 ) .
we nd hat hen the ing old ies a lot in the nse of ing igh rva - ure in any ces , hen a rge ber of les is red .
ote hat the ent ane of the old is ned by the ves of the nel ine ion f , for uch hms .
the ore ult is hat the old ent ane at x is ted by rms ted ith the ear ors of x in the ing set ( ore ely it is ned to be in the pan of the ors x xi , ith xi a bor of x ) .
his dea is ted in ure 123
in the ase of aph - sed old ing hms uch as lle and map , the ion of ear les is ect ( i . e . , the ive is tly in the pan of the nce ors ith the ors ) , use the nel im - cit in ese hms kes lue 123 for the non - ors .
ith uch cal old ing hms , one eds to ver the old ith all ugh ear hes ith at ast d + 123 les per tch ( ere d is the ion of the old ) .
his ent was sly ced in gio and rus ( 123 ) to ibe the ons of ood - sed old ing hms .
an ple hat tes hat any ing lds can ave igh ure is hat of ion of igh - ast ges , own in ure 123
the ame ent ies to the her ric ces of ges of cts .
123 eep res
the zes in the ous ons int to the lty of ing hly - ing ons .
ese are ons ith a rge ber of ons ( sts and rns ) in the ain of est , e . g . , hey uld ire a rge ber of ces to be ell - ted by a ise - ear ion .
nce the ber of ces can be
ure 123 : the old of ons of a igh - ast age has igh ure .
a oth old is ned by ing hat an age is a ple on a ete rid of an ity ion ver a two - nal ace .
the ent tor for ion is hus a ent age , and it has igh ues nly on the ges of the ink .
the ent ane for an age ted by nly one xel oks lar but ges tly nce the ges are lso ted by one xel .
nce the two ent nes are ost nal , and the old has igh ure , ich is bad for cal ing ods , ich ust ver the old ith any all ear hes to tly ure its ape .
ade to row lly ith the ber of put les , his lem is tly ted ith the ell - own rse of ity for cal non - ric ing hms ( for ion , ion and ity ion ) .
if the pes of all ese ces are ted , one eds ugh les for ach ece in der to ize rly .
ver , if ese pes are ted and can be ted rom ach her , non - cal ing hms ave the ial to ize to ces not red by the ing set .
uch ity uld eem ary for ing in lex ins uch as in the ai - set .
one way to ent a hly - ing ion tly ( ith few ers ) is ugh the ion of any non - ies .
uch ple ion of non - ies ear to ant non - cal ies to the tor , in the nse hat the lue of f ( x ) or f ( x ) can be gly ent on ing les far rom xi ile at the ame ime ing to ure a rge ber of ons .
we ave al - ady sed ity and her les ( ion 123 ) hat gly est hat the ing of ore act ons is uch ore ent hen it is one lly , by ing sly ned pts .
hen the ion of a ept re - res an ial ber of nts , ( e . g . , ith a low uit ) , the ber of
ing les red to arn the ept may lso be cal .
ian ses , vms , log - ear els , aph - sed old ing and aph - sed emi - sed ing hms can all be een as low tec - res .
ugh lti - yer ral rks ith any ers can ent eep cir - its , ing eep rks has ays een een as hat of a nge .
til ery tly , cal ies ten und hat eep rks lly med no ter , and ten rse , han ral rks ith one or two den ers ( uro , 123 ) .
a ble ion to his is the nal ral ork ure ( le - cun et al . , 123 , cun et al . , 123 ) sed in the ext ion , hat has a rse con - ity rom yer to yer .
ite its nce , the pic of eep ork ing has een hat ted by the rch ity .
ver , a ing new hod tly sed by ton et al .
( 123 ) is ing a nce of est in
a mon ion for the lty of eep ork ing is the nce of cal ima or aus in the oss ion .
ent - sed ion eth - ods hat art rom dom ial ons ear to ten get ped in oor cal ima or aus .
the lem ems rly ire for row rks ( ith few den its or ith a eck ) and for rks ith any ies ( i . e . , lly - ted rks in ich den its are ble ) .
the ion re - tly ced by ton et al .
( 123 ) for ing eep red rks is sed on a edy , yer - ise sed ing ase .
the sed ing ase des an ial ion of the ers ith ich a ent - sed per - sed ing ase is zed .
the ain dea of the sed ase is to air ach eed - ard yer ith a eed - ack yer hat pts to uct the put of the yer rom its put .
his ion ion ees hat ost of the ion ned in the put is ved in the put of the yer .
the ing ure is a so - led eep ief rks ( dbn ) .
ter the ial sed ing of ach eed - ard / eed - ack air , the eed - ard alf of the ork is ned ing a ent - ent sed sed hod ( ack - ion ) .
his ing egy lds eat ise as a ple to eak ugh the lem of ing eep rks .
per ers of a dbn are sed to ent ore act pts hat ain the put ion x , eas wer ers act low - vel res rom x .
wer ers arn ler pts rst , and her ers ild on hem to arn ore act pts .
his egy has not yet een uch ted in ine ing , but it is at the sis of the edy yer - ise ive ing thm for bns .
ore ely , ach yer is ned in an sed way so as to ure the ain res of the ion it ees as put .
it ces an nal ion for its put hat can be sed as put for the ext yer .
in a dbn , ach yer is ned as a ted ann ine ( teh and ton , 123 ) ing the ive nce ( ton , 123 ) ion of the log - ood ent .
the uts of ach yer ( i . e . , den its ) ute a red and ted rep - ion hat tes ses for the put of the yer .
ter the ers ave een hus zed , a nal put yer is ded on top of the ork ( e . g . , ing the ass ies ) , and the ole eep ork is ne - ned by a ent - sed ion of the ion ror .
the nly nce ith an ary lti - yer ral ork des in the ion of the ers , ich is not dom , but
is med ugh sed ing of ach yer in a ial ion .
nts ave een med on the ist and her ets to try to un - and why the eep ief rks are ing uch ter han her low rks or eep rks ith dom ion .
ese lts are ted and sed in ( gio et al . , 123 ) .
ral ons can be awn rom ese per - nts , ong ich the ing , of lar est ere :
lar lts can be ned by ing ach yer as an uto - tor in - ead of a ted ann ine , ing hat a her ral rin - ple has een red .
est ion ror is tly ved ith uch edy yer - ise sed ion ver her a low ork or a eep ork ith the ame ure but ith dom ion .
in all ses any ble den yer zes ere ied , and ted sed on ion ror .
hen ing a edy yer - ise egy hat is sed ead of per - sed , the lts are not as ood , bly use it is too edy : sed ure ing cts ore ion han tly ary for the dic - ion ask , eas edy sed ure ing ( edy use it oes not ake nto unt hat ere ill be ore ers ter ) cts ess ion han ary , ich ely les rts to ove by ing ers .
the edy yer - ise sed egy lps ion tly be -
use it lps the sed ion to get ted ear a ter ion .
123 nts ith ual ern ion
one ial ion hen ing a ing ure is how to ent in - nce .
ile nce ies are ial to any ing ask , it is rly ent in ual ern ion .
in his ion we der ral nts in ing ion and ect ion to ate the ive ges and ges of nel ods , low res , and eep res .
123 ing nce
the ple of ure 123 ows hat the old ing all ted ons of a ter age has igh ure .
use the old is hly ing , a ier hat is ant to ons ( i . e . , hat ces a ant put hen the put ves on the old , but ges hen the put ves to her ass old ) eds to ute a hly ing ion .
as we wed in the ous ion , ate - sed ods are ent at ing hly - ing ons .
the ber of uch ons may ase lly ith the ity of the lds ere the put ity tes .
hat ity is the ber of ons ong ich les hin a ory can ary .
we ill now ibe two ets of lts ith ual ern ion .
the rst art is a vey of lts ned ith low and eep res on the ist
set , ich ins ted ten its .
the ond art zes lts of nts ith the orb set , ich ins cts rom ve ent ric ies , ced on orm or red nds .
for ual ern ion , ype - 123 res ave ble ing the ide ity of nce in xel ges hat ult rom ons in ose , umi - ion , and ter , ess an bly rge ber of tes ( e . g . , ort ors ) are sed .
ad - hoc ing and ure ion can , of rse , be sed to ate the lem , but at the nse of man bor .
ere , we ill ate on ods hat eal ith raw xel ata and hat ate ure ion as art of the ing ess .
123 nal rks
nal ets are lti - yer res in ich the ive ers are de - ned to arn ely her - vel res , til the ast yer ich nts ies .
all the ers are ned sly to ize an all oss unc - ion .
ike ith ost her els of ion and ern ion , ere is no nct ure tor and ier in a nal ork .
all the ers are lar in ure and ned rom ata in an ted ion .
the sic ule of a nal net is sed of a ure ion yer wed by a ure ing yer .
a cal nal net is sed of one , two or ree uch ion / ing les in ies , wed by a ion ule .
the put ate ( and put ate ) of ach yer can be een as a ies of two - nal pic ays led ure aps .
at yer i , the lue jxy ced by the j - th ure ion yer at ion ( x , y ) in the j - th ure map is ted by ing a ies of ion els ijk to ure aps in the ous yer ( ith dex i 123 ) , and ing the ult ugh a lic ent
jxy = anh bij +xk
ere pi and qi are the dth and ght of the ion nel .
the ion nel ers kpq and the ias bij are ect to ing .
a ure ion yer can be een as a ank of nal ers wed by a int - ise non - ity .
ach ter cts a lar ure at ery ion on the put .
nce lly ing the put of a ure ion yer ill ate the put but ave it ise ged .
ion nce is lly ilt - in by ain - ing kpq = jkp q for all p , p , q , q , i . e . , the ame ers are sed at ent
a ure ing yer has the ame ber of res in the map as the ure ion yer hat des it .
ach lue in a ing map is the age ( or the max ) of the ues in a cal ood in the ing ure map in the ous yer .
hat age or max is ded to a ble ias , ied by a ble ent , and the ult is sed ugh a non - ity ( e . g . , the anh ion ) .
the ows are ped out lap .
ore the aps of a ure
ure 123 : the ure of the nal net sed for the orb nts .
the put is an age air , the tem cts 123 ure aps of ize 123 123 , 123 aps of 123 123 , 123 aps of 123 123 , 123 aps of 123 123 , and 123 nal ure tor .
the ure tor is hen med nto a 123 - nal tor in the ast yer to ute the nce ith get ors .
ing yer are ess han the ion of the aps in the ous yer .
the ole of the ing yer is ild a ion hat is ant to all ons of the ons of res in the put .
ted ers of ure ion and ure ing can act res rom gly rge ive lds , ith ing ess to ant ies of the uts .
the ast ule of a nal ork is lly a one - or two - yer ral net .
ing a nal net can be med ith tic ( on - ine ) ent ent , ing the nts ith a ant of the ack - ion hod .
ile nal ets are eep ( lly 123 to 123 ers of non - ear ons ) , hey do not eem to fer rom the nce ems hat gue eep lly - ted ral ets .
ile ere is no ive ion for his , we ect hat his non is ked to the ily ned ion , as ell as to the try of
nal ets are ing sed lly in ral ely - yed sys - ems for ing ank eck ( cun et al . , 123 ) , ing ing for let - pc , and for ing ces , ple , and cts in eos in eal ime .
123 the ons rom ist
ist is a set of ten its ith 123 , 123 ing les and 123 , 123 est les .
git ges ave een ize - zed so as to t hin a 123 123 xel dow , and red by ter of ass in a 123 123 eld .
ith his ure , the ion of the ers ary tly rom one ple to her .
ous ors ave ted lts on ist , ing ise ons ong ods .
a all set of ant lts is ted in ble 123
not all ood lts on ist are ted in the ble .
in lar , lts ned ith ted ges or ith
and - ned ure ors ere eft out .
lts are ted ith ree nal net res : net - 123 , net - 123 , and the ing nal net of ( ard et al . , 123 ) .
the put eld is a 123 123 xel map in ich the 123 123 ges are red .
in net - 123 ( cun et al . , 123 ) , the rst ure ion yer ces 123 ure aps of ize 123 123 ing 123 123 ion els .
the rst ure ing yer ces 123 123 123 ure aps ugh a 123 123 ing tio and 123 123 ive lds .
the ond ure ion yer ces 123 ure aps of ize 123 123 ing 123 123 ion els , and is wed by a ing yer ith 123 123 ing .
the ext yer ces 123 ure aps of ize 123 123 ing 123 123 ion els .
the ast yer ces 123 ure aps ( one per put ory ) .
net - 123 has a ery lar ure , but the ber of ure aps at ach vel are uch ger : 123 ure aps in the rst yer , 123 in the ird yer , and 123 ure aps in the ate
the nal net in ( ard et al . , 123 ) is hat lar to the nal one in ( cun et al . , 123 ) in hat ere is no ate ion and ing ers .
ach yer tes a ion ith a led ult ( ere is no ure ing ion ) .
eir ple nal ork has 123 res at the rst yer , ith 123 by 123 els and 123 by 123 ing , 123 res at the ond yer , lso ith 123 by 123 els and 123 by 123 ing , 123 res at the ird yer ith 123 by 123 els , and 123 put its .
the ist les are hly ble use of ing yle , but ave tle ion due to ion and ale .
nce , it is a set hat is rly ble for ate - sed ods .
yet , the ror ate ded by ort tor nes ith ian nel ( 23% ror ) is nly lly ter han hat of a bly ler ral net ith a gle den yer of 123 den its ( 23% as ted by ( ard et al . , 123 ) ) , and lar to the lts ned ith a 123 - yer ral net as ted in ( ton et al . , 123 ) ( 23% ror ) .
the est lts on the nal ist set ith a dge ree hod was ted in ( ton et al . , 123 ) ( 23% ror ) , ing a eep ief kby dge - ree hod , we ean a hod hat has no ior dge of the ial ure of the nal .
ose ods uld uce tly the ame ult if the put els ere led ith a xed ion .
nal ets use the ial ure of the ata , and the nce of ate - ies to all ric ons .
it is a oad ( low ity ) ior , ich can be ied tly ( ith a ort ece of ode ) .
yet it ngs out a ble ion of the ble of ons hat can be ned .
the est nal net on the ied ist set is net - 123 , ich lds a ord 23% .
as ith ons lts , his ult was ned by ing the ers in the rst yer us - ing an sed thm , ior to ing ith ack - ion ( ato et al . , 123 ) .
the ame net - 123 ned ely sed rom dom ion lds 23% ror .
a ler nal net , net - 123 lds 23% .
the ame ork was ted to eld 23% in ( cun et al . , 123 ) ith a ler ber of ing
hen the ing set is ted ith lly ted ons of the ing les , the est ror ate ( on the nal , non - ted est set ) ops tly .
a nal 123 - yer ral ork ith 123 den its lds 23% ror ( ard
123 - yer nn , 123 hid .
its 123 - yer nn , 123 its svm , ian nel sed ked rbm + rop nal ork net - 123 nal ork net - 123 onv .
net - 123 + sup .
ing ing set ted ith fne ons 123 - yer nn , 123 hid .
its ual svm , deg .
123 oly ing set ted ith tic ons 123 - yer nn , 123 hid .
its svm ian ker .
+ on - ine ing ape ext res + tic k - nn onv .
net - 123 onv .
net - 123 + sup .
ing
ard et al .
123 ton et al .
123 tes et al .
123 ton et al
ato et al .
123 ato et al .
123 ato et al
ard et al .
123 ste et al .
123 ard et al
ard et al .
123 his ume , ter 123 gie et al .
123 ard et al .
123 ato et al .
123 ato et al
ble 123 : est ror tes of ous ing els on the ist set .
any lts ned ith ted ges or and - ned ure ors ere eft
et al . , 123 ) .
ile vms tly orm 123 - yer ral ets on the ted set , the age all but ars on the ted set .
in his ume , sli et al .
ort 23% ror ith a ian svm and a ple ion ure .
the ber of ort ors in the ing svm is bly ger han 123
nal ets ied to the lly ted set eve een 23% and 23% ror , ing on the ure , the oss ion , and the ber of ing chs .
ard et al .
( 123 ) rts 23% ith a ing nal net .
ato et al .
( 123 ) ort 23% ing net - 123 ith dom ion , and 23% ing net - 123 ith sed pre - ing of the rst yer .
his is the est ror ate ver ted on the nal ist est set .
nce a eep ork , ith all ose of ior dge ded in the chi - ure , ned ith a ing thm hat can eal ith ons of les , oes a ong way rds ing nce .
not nly do eep rks eld wer ror tes , hey are ter to run and ter to ain on rge ets han the est
ure 123 : the 123 ing cts in the zed - orm orb set .
the ing cts are een by the ned tem .
123 the ons rom orb
ile ist is a ful ark , its ges are ple ugh to low a bal ate ing eme to orm ell .
ral ges of 23d cts ith ack - und ter are bly ore ing .
orb ( cun et al . , 123 ) is a cly ble set of ect ges rom 123 ric ies .
it ins im - ges of 123 ent oys , ith 123 oys in ach of the 123 ric ies : our - ged als , man res , nes , cks , and ars .
the 123 cts are lit nto a ing set ith 123 cts , and a est set ith the ing 123 ect ( see les in ure 123 ) .
ach ect is red by a reo era air in 123 ent ews ( 123 ons , 123 ths ) der 123 ent ons .
two ets ved rom orb are sed .
the rst set , led the zed - orm set , are ges of a gle ect ith a zed ize ced at the ter of ges ith orm und .
the ing set has 123 , 123 reo age irs of ize 123 , and her 123 , 123 for ing ( rom ent ect ces ) .
the ond set , the red - red set , ins cts ith mly bed
ons , les , in - ane ion , ess , and ast .
the cts are ced on hly red nds and her orb cts ced on the ery .
a 123 - th ory of ges is ded : und ges ing no cts .
ome les ges of his set are own in ure 123
ach age in the red - red set is mly bed so hat the cts are at ent ons ( ( - 123 , 123 ) els lly and lly ) , les ( tio in ( 123 , 123 ) ) , age - ane les ( ( 123 , 123 ) ) , ess ( ( - 123 , 123 ) fts of ray ale ) , and sts ( ( 123 , 123 ) ain ) .
the ral ect uld be ded by the mly ced tor .
to ate the ing set , ach age was bed ith 123 ent ons of the ove ers , ich kes up 123 , 123 age irs of ize 123
the ing set has 123 ngs of ons per age , and ins 123 , 123 irs .
in the orb ets , the nly ful and ble lue is the ape of the ect , ile all the her ers hat ect the nce are ect to ion , or are ned to ain no ful lue .
ers hat are ect to ion are : ing les ( ose ) , ing ons .
ial ues ose act was imi - ted ude : lor ( all ges are ale ) , and ect ure .
for cic ect ion sks , the lor and ure ion may be ful , but for ric ion sks the lor and ure ion are ons her han ful ues .
by ing ral ies and ing ant ues and tem - tic ses , orb can rve as a ark set in ich no den ity hat uld rly age ome ods ver ers can be sed .
a six - yer net bed net - 123 , own in ure 123 , was sed in the nts ith the orb set ted ere .
the ure is lly cal to hat of net - 123 and net - 123 , ept of the zes of the ure aps .
the put is a air of 123 ray ale ges .
the rst ure ion yer ses lve 123 ion els to ate 123 ure aps of ize 123 123
the rst 123 aps ake put rom the eft age , the ext two rom the ght age , and the ast 123 rom oth .
ere are 123 ble ers in his yer .
the rst ure ing yer ses a 123 ing , to uce 123 ure aps of ize 123 123
the ond ure ion yer ses 123 ion els of ize 123 to put 123 ure aps of ize 123 123
ach map kes put rom 123 lar aps and 123 lar aps , ach ith a ent ion , as own in ure 123
his ion is sed to ine res rom the reo age irs .
his yer ins 123 , 123 ble ers .
the ext ing yer ses a 123 ing ich uts 123 ure aps of ize 123 123
the ext yer has 123 123 ion els to uce 123 ure aps of ize 123 123 , and the ast yer has 123 its .
in the nts , we lso ort lts ing a rid hod , ich sts in ing the nal ork in the nal way , ing off the ast yer , and ing a ian nel svm on the put of the ate yer .
any of the lts in his ion ere sly ted in ( ang and cun , 123 ) .
123 lts on the zed - orm set
ble 123 ows the lts on the ler orb set ith orm und .
his set tes a rio in ich cts can be tly ted rom the und , and is ore her tic .
ion of s . v .
23% 23% 23%
tep ize =
123 - 123
ble 123 : ing ror tes and ing / ing ngs on the zed - orm set of ent ods .
the ing is zed to cal ghz gle cpu .
the nal ets ave ple lts ith ent ing ses due to
the svm is sed of ve ary vms hat are ned to ify one ect ory nst all her ies .
the nal net ned on his set has a ler ate yer ith 123 uts .
the put res to the svm of the rid tem are gly 123 - nal ors .
the ing res in ble 123 ent the cpu ime on a ous ghz cpu .
the lts of the nal net ned ter 123 , 123 , 123 ses are ted in the ble .
the ork is tly ver - ned ith ore han 123 ses ( no ion was sed in the ent ) .
the svm in the rid tem is ned ver the res ted rom the ork ned ith 123 ses .
the ent of the ion is nal ver the nal net one .
ite the ive ity of the ask ( no ion ion , orm ack - nds , nly 123 pes of ons ) , the svm rms her rly .
gly , it ire a ery rge unt of cpu ime for ing and ing .
the nal net hes the ame ror ate as the svm ith 123 mes ess ing ime .
her ing ves the ror ate .
it is ing hat ite its eep ure , its non - vex oss , the tal nce of cit ion , and a ack of ght ner - ion nds , the nal net is oth ter and ter han an svm .
123 lts on the red - red set
the lts on his set are own in ble 123
to ify the 123 ies , 123 ary ( one vs .
ers ) svm sub - ers are ned tly , ach ith the ull set of 123 , 123 les .
the ing les are raw 123 123 xel age irs ned nto a 123 , 123 - nal put tor , ith ues een 123 to 123
vms ave ely few ree ers to une ior to ing .
in the ase of ian els , one can ose ( ian nel zes ) and c ( lty ent ) hat eld est lts by rid ing .
a her ing est ror ate of 23% is ned on his set , as own in the rst umn of ble 123
the ing ime nds
23% 23% 23% 23%
tep ize =
123 - 123
ble 123 : ing ror tes and ing / ing ngs on the red - red set of ent ods .
the ing is zed to cal ghz gle cpu .
the nal ets ave ple lts ith ent ing ses due to its ive
ily on the lue of for ian nel vms .
the nts are run on a 123 - cpu ( ghz ) ter , and the ing ion is zed nto a cal ghz gle cpu to ake the ent ful .
for the nal net net - 123 , we ted lts ter ent ber of ses ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) and eir ing ion .
the est ror ate ens out at 23% ter out 123 ses .
no ant ver - ing was ved , and no rly ing was med .
one ter ing the ing ure ust be lly cho - sen : the bal tep ize of the tic ent ure .
est lts are ned by ing a ule in ich his tep ize is ely sed .
a ull ion of one ata ple ugh the ork res out 123 mil - ion ply - add ons .
ing the nal net is ely ple nce ple ons can be med sly , and ach ion can be med tly on sub - ons of the ers .
the nal ets are lly ery ent .
the ing ime les rly ith set ize in ice , and the ing can be one in eal - ime at a ate of a few mes per
the ird umn ows the ult of a rid tem in ich the ast yer of the nal net was ced by a ian svm ter ing .
the ing and ing res are ted ith the nal net ned ter 123 ses .
the ate yer of the ork has 123 uts , ore the res are 123 - nal .
the vms ied on res ted rom the nal net eld an ror ate of 23% , a ant ent ver her hod one .
by rpo - ing a ned ure tor nto the nel ion , the svm was eed ble to age oth the ity to use low - vel lly cal res and at the ame ime eep all the ges of a rge gin ier .
the oor nce of svm ith ian els on raw els is not nex - ted .
as we ted out in ous ons , a ian nel svm ely com - tes ing res ( sed on ean nce ) een the ing ern and
tes rom the ing set .
his bal ate ing is ery ive to ari - ons in ion , ose , and ion .
ore tly , ost of the els in a orb age are lly on the und ter , her han on the ect to be zed .
nce the ate ing res are ted by ant ili - ies of the und .
his nts to a ial ncy of ard nel ods : eir ity to ect ant put res , and ore ant nes .
vms ave med ges ded by ion nds , ity con - rol ugh gin ion , a vex oss ion , and sal ion ies .
by ast , nal ets ave no ion nds ( ond the ost ral vc nds ) , no cit ion , a hly non - vex oss unc - ion , and no aim to ity .
yet the tal lts ith orb how hat nal ets are ore ate han ian vms by a tor of 123 , ter to ain by a rge tor ( 123 to 123 ) , and ter to run by a tor of 123
his ork was ted by our nts for ing hms hat uld ad - ess the nge of ai , ich ude cal ity , nal ala - ity and man - bor ity .
use the set of sks ved in ai is ely rse , ing a ate ion for ach ask ems cal .
we ave red any ons of nel nes and her low res .
uch res are ent for ing lex , hly - ing ons , ich we eve are ary for ai - ted sks uch as ant ion .
one ion was sed on the ell - own pth - dth off in its de - ign tad ( 123 ) .
his sts hat any ons can be uch ore tly ted ith per res , ten ith a est ber of els ( e . g . , log - mic in the ber of uts ) .
the ond ion rds cal ces of the rse of men - ity .
it ies to cal els uch as the ian nel , in ich k ( x , xi ) can be een as a ate her .
it lls us hat res ing on cal els can be ery ent at ing ons hat ave any ons , i . e . , unc - ons hat are not lly oth ( but may ill be lly oth ) .
eed , it uld be ued hat nel nes are tle ore han ped - up ate ers .
a ird ion ins to the nal ost of ing .
in ory , the con - vex ion ted ith nel ine ing lds ent ion and ble lts .
ely , ost ent hms are ( at ast ) tic in the ber of les .
his lly des eir ion to ery rge - ale ets for ich ear - or ear - ime hms are red ( rly for on - ine ing ) .
his lem is hat ted by ent ess ith on - ine hms for nel nes ( e . g . , see ( des et al . , 123 ) ) , but ere ins the ion of the ase in the ber of ort ors as the ber of les
a rth and ost ous ion , ich ows rom the rst ( ess ) and ond ( ity ) ins to ncy in ion .
low res and cal ors are ply too ent ( in rms of red ber of les and
ble nts ) to ent any act ons of est .
ely , his kes hem ble if our oal is to arn the ai - set .
we do not ean to est hat nel nes ave no ace in ai .
for ple , our lts est hat com - ing a eep ure ith a nel ine hat kes the her - vel ned ion as put can be ite ful .
ing the ion rom els to igh - vel res ore ing an svm is in act a way to arn the nel .
we do est hat ine ing ers ing at the ai lem uld sti - ate res hat do not ave the nal ons of nel nes , and eep res are by ion not low and lly not cal as ell .
til tly , any ved hat ing eep res was too ult an ion lem .
ver , at ast two ent hes ave ked ell in ing uch res : ple ent ent ied to nal net - rks ( cun et al . , 123 , cun et al . , 123 ) ( for als and ges ) , and ore tly , yer - by - yer sed ing wed by ent ent ( ton et al . , 123 , gio et al . , 123 , ato et al . , 123 ) .
rch on eep res is in its ncy , and ter ing hms for eep res ain to be dis - red .
ing a ger ive on the ive of ing ing les hat can ead to ai has een a ing ive of his ork .
we ope to ave ped ire ers to eek a ion to the lem of ing ine ing rds ai .
we ank off ton for our ous ons ith him and the ral com - ion and ive ion ram of the ian ute of ced re - rch for ing hem ble .
we ish to ank fu - jie ang for ing uch of the nts in ion 123 , and ans - ter raf and ric tto and eir lab - ors for ing us use eir lel ion of svm .
we ank eon tou for his nce and for ful nts .
we ank mit pra , ier eau , aia ell , ugo lle , las le oux , lio ato , for ing us to ake ess rds the eas ted ere .
his ect was ted by nsf nts no .
123 and no .
123 , by erc , the ada rch irs , and the acs nce .
