we ent in his per a vel ach for ing tic uto - ers .
we how hat by ing a ell sen lty erm to the cal ion ost unc - ion , we can eve lts hat ual or sur - ass ose ned by her zed uto - ers as ell as ing uto - ers on a nge of ets .
his lty erm nds to the ius orm of the ian rix of the der ons ith ect to the put .
we how hat his lty erm lts in a zed ace ion ich in urn lds ust fea - res on the ion yer .
ore , we how how his lty erm is ted to oth zed uto - ers and ing uto - ers and how it can be een as a ink een tic and non - tic uto - ers .
we nd lly hat his lty lps to rve a ion hat ter res the cal ons of ria - ion ted by the ata , ing to a wer - nal non - ear old , ile ing ore ant to the ast ity of ons nal to the old .
fi - lly , we how hat by ing the ned fea - res to ize a mlp , we eve ate of the art ion ror on a nge of ets , ing her ods of pre -
ing in ngs of the 123 th nal con - nce on ine ing , vue , wa , usa , 123
ght 123 by the hor ( s ) / ner ( s ) .
a ent pic of 123 in the ine ing ity is the ent of hms for un - sed ing of a ful ion .
his tic ery and ion of res is ten sed in ing a eep chy of res , hin the xts of sed , emi - sed , or nsu - sed ing .
see gio ( 123 ) for a ent iew of eep ing hms .
ost of ese ods oit as sic ing ock hms for ing one vel of ure ion : the sen - ion ned at one vel is sed as put for ing the ext vel , etc .
the ive is hat ese rep - ons ome ter as pth is sed , but hat nes a ood ion ? it is rly ell un - ood hat pca or ica do , but uch ins to be one to and the ics and ret - cal ges of the ons ned by a re - ted ann ine ( ton et al . , 123 ) , an uto - der ( gio et al . , 123 ) , rse ing ( ol - sen and eld , 23; glu et al . , 123 ) , or emi - sed ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
all of ese uce a non - ear ion ich , un - ike hat of pca or ica , can be ked ( sed ) to eld per els of ion .
it has lso een ved lly ( lee et al . , 123 ) hat the per els ten ure ore act res .
a sim - ple ach ( ton et al . , 23; gio et al . , 123 ) , lso sed ere , to lly ify hat the ned ons are ful , is to use hem to ize a ier ( uch as a lti - yer ral ork ) , and ure ion ror .
any nts how hat per els can hus eld wer ion ror ( gio et al . , 23; ett et al . , 23; ent
see 123 hop on eep ing and nsu -
sed ure ing
et al . , 123 ) .
ion .
hat les uld ide the ing of uch ate ons ? hey uld ure as uch as ble of the ion in ach ven ple , hen hat ple is ely der the ing ing ion .
hat is hat uto - ers ( ent et al . , 123 ) and rse ing aim to eve hen ing ruc - ion ror .
we uld lso ike ese ons to be ful in ing the put ion , and hat is hat is ved by tly ing a ive els ood ( uch as bms ) .
his per , we uce a lty erm hat uld be ded in her of the ove xts , ich our - ges the ate ion to be ust to all ges of the put und the ing xam - les .
we how ugh ive nts on any ark ets hat his tic is ful to arn ons hat elp ing bet - ter ers .
we ize hat eas the pro - sed lty erm ges the ned res to be lly ant out any nce for tic - lar ons , hen it is ned ith a ruc - ion ror or ood ion we ain nce in the ons hat ake nse in the ext of the ven ing ata , i . e . , the ons hat are ent in the ata uld lso be red in the ned rep - ion , but the her ons may be ted in the ned ion .
how to act ust res
to age ess of the ion f ( x ) ob - ned for a ing put x we ose to ize its ity to hat put , red as the ius orm of the ian jf ( x ) of the non - ear map - ing .
lly , if put x rdx is ped by cod - ing ion f to den ion h rdh , his ity ion erm is the sum of res of all ial ves of the ted res ith ect to put ons :
f ges the ing to the fea - ure ace to be ive in the ood of the ing ata .
his ric ive , ich ves its ame to our thm , ill be her ted on , in ion 123 , sed on tal nce .
the ess ced by ing low ued rst iva - ves ill ply an nce or ess of the rep - ion for all ons of the put .
hus in his udy , rms ike nce , ( in - ) ity , ro -
ess , ess and ion all int to the ame ile uch a ian erm one uld age ing to a ess ant ion , ced in uto - der 123 by the eed for the rnt ion to low a ood con - ion of the 123
uto - ers nts
in its est orm , an uto - der ( ae ) is com - sed of two rts , an der and a der .
it was ced in the ate 23s ( art et al . , 23; ldi and nik , 123 ) as a que for men - ity ion , ere the put of the der nts the ced ion and ere the der is ned to uct the ial put rom the ers ion ugh the ion of a ost ion .
ore lly hen the en - ing ion ons are ear and the num - ber of den its is ior to the put men - ion ( nce ing a eck ) , it has een own hat the rnt ers of the der are a sub - ace of the pal nts of the put ace ( ldi and nik , 123 ) .
ith the use of non - ear ion ons an ae can ver be ted to arn ore ful ure - ors han hat can be ned ith a ple pca ( icz et al . , 123 ) .
ver , ary to eir cal use as ity - ion ues , in eir ern ion uto - ers are ten yed in a so - led ver - ete ing to act a ber of fea - res ger han the put ion , ing a ich her - nal ion .
in his tup , ing ome orm of ion mes ial to oid ing ons ere the uto - der uld tly uct the put out ing to ex - act any ful ure .
his ion lly nes the uto - der nts red in his udy .
sic uto - der ( ae ) .
the der is a unc - ion f hat aps an put x rdx to den sen - ion h ( x ) rdh .
it has the orm
h = f ( x ) = sf ( w x + bh ) ,
ere sf is a ear ion ion , ypi - +ez .
the der is lly a tic oid ( z ) = 123 zed by a dh dx ght rix w , and a ing lso the now mon nal int of der and der ing the ame ( sed ) hts , ich des a ere bal ing cal - ing in the der and ion in the der .
23a ood - ted ion uld lso rly pre -
ent a pse of the ion .
ias tor bh rdh .
the der ion g aps den ion h ack to a ion y :
y = g ( h ) = sg ( w ( cid : 123 ) h + by ) ,
ere sg is the ers ion ion , lly her the ity ( ing ear ion ) or a oid .
the ers ers are a ias tor by rdx , and rix w ( cid : 123 ) .
in his per we nly ore the ied hts ase , in ich w ( cid : 123 ) = w t .
uto - der ing sts in ing ers = ( w , bh , by ) hat ize the ion ror on a ing set of les dn , ich nds to ing the ing ive ion :
jae ( ) = ( cid : 123 )
ere l is the ion ror .
cal ces ude the red ror l ( x , y ) = ( cid : 123 ) x y ( cid : 123 ) 123 sed in ses of ear ion and the oss - opy oss hen sg is the oid ( and uts are in ( 123 , 123 ) ) :
l ( x , y ) = ( cid : 123 ) dx
123 xi log ( yi ) + ( 123 xi ) log ( 123 yi ) .
zed uto - ers ( +wd ) .
the sim - est orm of ion is ght - cay ich fa - ors all hts by ing ead the ing
ere the per - ter ols the gth of ote hat her han ing a ior on hat the hts uld be , it is ble to ave a ior on hat the den nit ons uld be .
rom his iew - int , ral ues ave een ped to en - age ity of the ion ( glu et al . , 23; lee et al . , 123 ) .
ing uto - ers ( dae ) .
a ful al - ive orm of ion is ned ugh the que of ing uto - ers ( dae ) put ard by ent et al .
( 123 ) , ere one ply pts put x ore ing it ugh the uto - der , hat is ned to uct the ean ver - ion ( i . e .
to ise ) .
his lds the ing jec -
dae ( ) = ( cid : 123 )
ere the ion is ver ted ons x of les x ned rom a ion ess q ( x|x ) .
his ive is zed by tic ent de - ent ( ing ted les ) .
lly , we der ons uch as ive pic ian ise : x = x + , n ( 123 , 23i ) and a ary ing ise , ere a ion of put nts ( mly sen ) ave eir lue set to 123
the ree of the ion ( or ) ols the ree of ion .
ive uto - ers ( cae )
rom the ion of ess to all rba - ons und the ing nts , as sed in sec - ion 123 , we ose an ive ion hat ors ngs hat are ore gly ing at the ing les ( see ion 123 for a ger ion ) .
the ive uto - der ( cae ) is ned ith the ion erm of eq .
123 ing
cae ( ) = ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) l ( x , g ( f ( x ) ) ) + ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
hip ith ght cay .
it is asy to see hat the red ius orm of the ian cor - nds to a 123 ght cay in the ase of a ear der ( i . e .
hen sf is the ity ion ) .
in his ial ase cae and +wd are cal .
ote hat in the ear ase , ing hts all is the nly way to ave a ion .
but ith a oid non - ity , ion and ess can lso be ved by ing the den its to eir ted hip ith rse uto - ers .
uto - der nts hat age rse ons aim at ing , for ach ple , a ity of the nts of the ion ose to ero .
for ese res to be ose to ero , hey ust ave een ted in the eft ted art of the oid non - ity , ich is ost at , ith a iny rst iva - ive .
his lds a ing all try in the ian jf ( x ) .
hus , rse uto - ers hat out - put any ose - to - ero res , are ely to rre - ond to a hly ive ing , ven ugh ion or ess are not tly ged ugh eir ing ion .
hip ith ing uto - ers .
ro - ess to put ons was lso one of the ion of the ing uto - der , as ted in
ent et al .
( 123 ) .
the cae and the dae ier ver in the ing ays : aes tly age ess of nta - ion f ( x ) , eas aes ges ess of re - ion ( g f ) ( x ) ( ich may nly lly and tly age ess of the ion , as the nce ent is red een the two rts of the uto - der ) .
we eve hat his rty ake aes a ter ice han aes to arn ful ure ors .
nce we ill use nly the der art for ion , ess of the ted res ars ore ant han ro - ess of the ion .
aes ess is ned lly ( eq .
123 ) by ing ral tly ted ons of a ain - ing int aim for an cal ion .
by con - ast , aes ess to iny ons is ob - ned lly by ing the ude of rst ves ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ote hat an tic ion for aes tic ess ion can be ned in the mit of ery all ive ian ise , by low - ing hop ( 123 ) .
his lds , not gly , a erm in ( cid : 123 ) jgf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 f ( ian of ion ) her han the ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 f ( ian of ion ) of aes .
in the ase of a oid ity , the lty on the ian orm has the ing ple ion :
f at ing nts nly ( eq
( hi ( 123 hi ) ) 123
ing his lty ( or its ent ) , is lar to and has out the ame ost as ing the re - ion ror ( or , ely , its ent ) .
the all nal ity is o ( dx dh ) .
nts and lts
red els .
in our nts , we com - are the sed ive uto der ( cae ) nst the ing els for sed ure
ned by ive nce ,
rbm - ary : ted ann ine ae : sic uto - der , +wd : uto - der ith ght - cay egu - dae - g : ing uto - der ith ian dae - b : ing uto - der ith ary
all uto - der nts sed ied hts , a oid ion ion for oth der and der , and a oss - opy ion ror ( see ion 123 ) .
hey ere ned by ing eir ( zed ) ive ion on the ing set by tic ent ent .
as for bms , hey ere ned by ese hms ere ied on the ing set out ing the els ( sed ) to act a rst yer of res .
lly the ure was ted to ack nal ure - ion ers on top of the rst one .
nce hus ned , the rnt ter ues of the ing ure - ors ( ght and ias of the der ) ere sed as ali - ion of a yer ron ( mlp ) ith an tra dom - sed put yer .
the ole ork was hen ne - ned by a ent ent on a per - sed ive ate for ion 123 , ing the els in the ing set .
ets sed .
we ave ted our ach on a ark of age ion ems , ely : a ray - ale ion of the far - 123 age - ion ask ( sky and ton , 123 ) and ist : the ell - own git ica - ion lem .
we lso sed ems rom the ame ark as ent et al .
( 123 ) ich des ve der git ion ems ved by ing tra ors of ion to ist its , ach ith 123 les for ing , 123 for ion , 123 for est as ell as two ial ape ion
ion nce
our rst ies of nts ses on the ist and far - bw ets .
we are the ica - ion nce ned by a ral ork ith one den yer of 123 its , zed ith ach of the sed hms der ion .
for ach ase , we ted the lue of ers ( uch as the gth of ion ) hat ded , ter sed ne - ing , the est ion per -
3we sed oss - opy for ary ica -
ion , and log of max for lti - ass ems
ese ets are ble at ttp : / / www . iro .
eal . ca / ~ isa / 123 : sic : ler set of st; rot : its ith ded dom on; bg - and : its ith dom ise nd; bg - img : its ith dom age nd; bg - img - rot : its ith ota - ion and age nd; ect : ate een all and ide les ( ite on ack ) ; ect - img : imi - ate een all and ide lar age on a ent
ble 123
nce son of the red els on ist ( top alf ) and far - bw ( tom alf ) .
re - lts are ted in ing der of ion ror on the est set .
est mer and els ose nce ith the est mer was not lly ant are in old .
ice how the age ian orm ( ore ne - ing ) ars ted ith the nal est ror .
sat is the age ion of ted its per xam - ple .
not gly , the cae lds a her ion of ted its .
nce on the ion set .
nal ion er - ror ate was hen ted on the est set .
ith the ers ned ter sed pre - ing ( ore ne - ing ) , we lso ted in ach ase the age lue of the ers ion ( cid : 123 ) jf ( x ) ( cid : 123 ) f on the ion set , as ell as a ure of the av - age ion of ted its per 123
ese lts are ted in ble 123
we see hat the lo - cal ion ure ( the age ( cid : 123 ) jf ( cid : 123 ) f ) on the pre - ned del gly tes ith the nal ion ror .
the cae , ich tly ies to ize his ure ile ing a ood re - ion , is the est - ing del .
ets .
lts ven in ble 123 res the nce of ked aes on the ark ems of lle et al .
( 123 ) to the ree - yer els re - ted in ent et al .
( 123 ) .
ing a ond yer cae on top of a rst yer ars to tly ves nce , hus ing eir use - ess for ing eep rks .
ver on the ity of ets , 123 - yer cae eat the ate - of - the - art 123 - yer del .
3we der a nit ted if its ion is low 123 or ove 123 .
ote hat in ral the set of ted its is ted to ary ith ach ple .
ser ion of the ion
to ter and the ure tor ced by ach thm , in rms of eir ive rop - ies , we sed the ing cal ols : hat ens lly : ing at the lar ues of the ian .
a igh nal aco - ian ins nal ion : the unt of ion is lly not the ame in all ons .
his can be ned by ing a lar lue ion of jf .
we ted the age ngu - lar lue rum of the ian ver the ion set for the ove els .
lts are own in fig - ure 123 and ill be sed in ion 123 .
ves .
the ius orm of the ian at ome int x res the ion of the ing lo - lly at hat int .
ely the ion ced by the sed lty erm can be red ond the ate ing les , by the tio of the ces een two nts in eir nal ( put ) ace and eir nce nce ped in the ure ace .
we all his pic ure ion ra - tio .
in the mit ere the ion in the put ace is mal , his nds to the ive ( i . e .
ian ) of the ion map .
for any ing ion f , we can ure the ver - age ion tio for irs of nts , one of ich , 123 is ked rom the ion set , and the her 123 mly ted on a ere of ius r cen - red on 123 in put ace .
how his age tio ves as a ion of r lds a ion rve .
we ave ted ese ves for the els for ich we ted ion nce ( the con - ion ves are ver ted ith eir ial ers ior to ne ing ) .
lts are own in ure 123 for gle - yer ngs and in ure 123 for 123 and 123 yer ngs .
hey ill be sed in ail in the ext ion .
ion : cal ace ion
rom a cal int of iew , the ess of the res can be een as a ion of the put ace hen ted in the ure ace , in icu - lar in the ood of the les rom the ata - ing ion : ise ( if the ion was the ame at all ces ) it uld not be ful , use it uld ust be a bal ing .
uch a con - ion is ing ith the sed lty , but uch ess out it , as ted on the ion ves of ure 123
for all hms ted ept the sed cae and the ian ion dae
ble 123
son of ked ive uto - ers ith 123 and 123 ers ( cae - 123 and cae - 123 ) ith her 123 - yer ked els and ine svm .
est ror ate on all red ion ems is ted her ith a 23% nce val .
est mer is in old , as ell as ose for ich nce als lap .
rly aes can be lly sed to ild top - ing eep rks .
123 ers of cae ten med 123 ers of her
( dae - g ) , the ion tio ses ( i . e . , rds ore ion ) as we ove way rom the ain - ing les ( his is due to ore ion , and was ted ) , eas for the cae the ion tio lly ses , up to the int ere the ect of ion kes ver ( the ump urs at out the mum nce een two ing les ) .
ink out the ase ere the ing les con - ate ear a low - nal old .
the ari - ons ent in the ata ( e . g .
ion and ro - ons of cts in ges ) ond to cal di - ons ong the old , ile the ons hat are all or are in the ata ond to the rec - ons nal to the old ( at a lar int ear the old , ing to a lar ex - ple ) .
the sed ion is ing to ake the res ant in all ons und the ing les , but the ion ror ( or ood ) is ing ure hat hat the ion is ith - ful , i . e . , can be sed to uct the put xam - ple .
nce the ons hat ist to his act - ing ure ( ong nce to put ges ) are the ons ent in the ing set .
eed , if the ons ong ese ons ent in the ing set ere not ved , ing ing les uld not be hed and rly ted .
nce the ons ere the ion is ong ( all tio , all lar ues of the ian ma - rix ) are lso the ons ere the del ves hat the put ity ops kly , eas the di - ons ere the ion is eak ( ser to 123 , ger ion tio , ger lar ues of the ian rix ) ond to the ons ere the del ves hat the put ity is at ( and rge , nce we are ear a ing ple ) .
we eve hat his ion lty hus lps the ner rve a ind of ain ted by the
ing les , and ing to a dge een hem .
hat we uld ike is for ese ges to cor - ond to ome ons of ion ent in the ata , ted ith ing ors of ion .
how far do ese ges end und ach ing ple and how at are hey ? his can be ual - zed ely ith the sis of ure 123 , ith the ion tio for ent ces rom the ote hat ent res ( nts of the sen - ion tor ) uld be ted to ave ges ( i . e .
ons of nce ) in ent ons , and hat the ity of ese ges ( we are in a rly igh - nal ace ) ves a int as to the cal ity of the old ear ich the ata les ate .
the lar lue pec - rum of the ian rms us out hat try .
the ber of rge lar ues uld eal the ity of ese ges , i . e . , of hat old ear ich les ate .
his is ted in ure 123 , ing the lar ues rum of the ers ian .
the cae by far oes the est job at ing the ata ons ear a wer - nal old , and the dae is ond est , ile ary uto - ers ( zed or not ) do not eed at all in his ect .
hat ens hen we ack a cae on top of an - her one , to ild a per der ? his is lus - ted in ure 123 , ich ows the age rac - ion tio for ent ces und ach ing int , for pth 123 vs pth 123 ers .
ing two aes lds ven ore ion and ven ore non - ity , i . e .
a per ole , ith a ter vel of ion at ort and ium ces , and a yed ect of ion ( the ump nly mes up at her ces ) .
we uld hus ect her - vel res to be ore ant in eir ure -
ure 123
age rum of the ers ian , for the far - bw set .
rge lar ues ond to the cal ons of wed ion rnt rom the set .
the cae ing wer rge lar ues and a per ing rum , it sts hat it oes a ter job of ing a low - nal old ear the ing les .
in his per , we mpt to wer the ing ues - ion : hat kes a ood ion ? des be - ing ful for a lar ask , ich we can ure , or rds ich we can ain a ion , his per hts the ges for ons to be lly ant in any ons of nge of the raw put .
his dea is ted by a lty on the ius orm of the ian rix of the der ing , ich tes the ion .
the per lso ces cal res of ro - ess and nce , sed on the ion ra - tio of the ned ing , at ent ces and in ent ons und the ing les .
we ize hat his als the old ruc - ure ned by the del , and we nd ( by ook - ing at the lar lue rum of the ing ) hat the ive uto - der ers wer - in ion , nts on any ets est hat his lty ays lps an uto - der to orm ter , and tes or ves pon the ons ned by ois - ing uto - ers or bms , in rms of ion
