ab .
ga pr ar a na wa of de pr di ov fu - ti of on or mo in va .
in a si no re pr , wh su a fu gi th me of a ga di fo an ob re , a ga pr mo ca ea be im us ma co th ar fe fo da of up to ab a th ca .
hy th de th co fu of th ga pr ca be sa us ma ch me .
re mo wh th no ha a t di an lo or pr mo fo cl ap ca be im by sa as we fo la va un - de th ob .
so is no av th im th me us co fu wi hi pa .
mo de in th wa ca di hi - le pr of th da , su as wh in ar re to pr
a no ba re mo mu be ba on a pr di ov th in - di sp of po re fu .
it ha be kn fo ma ye th su pr ov fu ca be de us ga pr ( oh 12 ) , an es th sa mo ha lo be us in sp st un th na of kr .
ga pr se to ha be la ig as ge - pu re - gr mo , ho , ap fr th sp ca of sm sp ( wa 12 ) , an so ap to mo no - fr da fr co ex ( eg , sa , we , mi , an wy 12 ) .
re , i ha sh th ma ba re mo ba on ne ne co to ga pr in th li of an in ne ( ne 12 ) .
th ha mo ex of ga pr mo fo th hi - di ap to wh ne ne ar ty ap ( wi an ra 12 ) .
th em wo of ra ( 12 ) ha de th ga - si pr mo ha be pr pe th se ot no
re me ov a ra of ta wi va ch .
th co si - pl , ex , an go pe of ga pr mo sh ma th ve at fo a wi ra of pr .
on re fo th pr ne of ga pr re ma be th in a st im it in ma op wh ti re gr as th cu of th nu of ca , an wh sp re gr as th sq of th nu of ca .
tw ye ag , th ma ha li us of su mo to da wi le th ab a hu ca , bu wi mo co , it is fe to ap ga pr mo to da wi a th or mo ca .
it ma al be po to re th ti re us mo so al ( gi an ma
th ch of a ga pr mo ca ea be co by wr th co fu in te of hy .
on ap to ad th hy - pa to th ob da is to es th by ma li ( or ma pe li ) , as ha lo be do in th co of sp st ( eg , ma an ma 12 ) .
in a fu ba ap , th hy ar gi pr di .
pr ar th ma by av ov th po di fo th hy , wh ca be do us ma ch mo ca me .
th tw ap of gi si re ( wi an ra 12 , ra 12 ) , bu th fu ba ap ma be mo ro wh th mo ar el .
ap ga pr mo to cl pr pr ne co pr , si th jo di of al qu is no lo ga .
ap me of ba in fo su mo ha be pr by ba an wi ( 12 ) an by gi an ma ( 12 ) .
a ge ap to ex ha cl - ca an ot ge mo ( eg , fo a po re ) is to us a ma ch mo ca sc in wh un la va as wi ea ca ar ex re .
th pa ap th ap to cl us lo or pr mo , an to re mo in wh th no fo a t di .
i ha wr so in c fo un sy th im ga pr me fo re an cl , wi th sa fr as is us by my ba ne ne so .
th so is is fr av fo re an ed us . 12 th co fu su ma co of se pa , an ma be sp in te of hy , as de in de in se 12
th co fu pr fu si to th of th ne ne mo .
th so im fu ba in fo th hi mo us ma co an ma ch sa me , as de in se 12 an 12
in se 12 an 12 , i de th us of th so on a th - wa cl pr , us a mo th ca id wh of th in ar re to pr th cl , an on a re pr wi i co by di so ar fo fu re .
fi , ho , i wi
12 th li fr my ho pa , at ht : / / ww . cs . ut . ca / ra / .
th ve de
he is th of 12 - 12 - 12
in in mo de th id of ba mo us ga pr .
12 re an cl us ga pr
, x ( i )
as we ha ob da fo n ca , ( x ( 12 ) , t ( 12 ) ) , ( x ( 12 ) , t ( 12 ) ) , .
, ( x ( n ) , t ( n ) ) , in wh x ( i ) = x ( i ) is th ve of p in ( pr ) fo ca i an t ( i ) is th as ta ( re ) .
ou pr pu is to pr th ta , t ( n+ ) , fo a ne ca wh we ha ob on th in , x ( n+ ) .
( we mi so be in in in as we , bu th is no po in in a mo th ha fa to ca th re th wo su go pr pe . ) fo a re pr , th ta wi be re - va fo a cl pr , th ta wi be fr so ni se of cl la , wh we wi ta to be ( 12 , .
, k 12 ) .
it wi so be co to re th di of th ta , t ( i ) , in te of un la va , y ( i ) , as wi ea ca .
ba re an cl mo ar us fo in te of a pr di fo a se of un mo pa , fr wh a po di fo th pa is de , an ge ex ex .
if ou fo is on pr fo a fu ca , ho , th na re is a pr di fo a ne ta va , t ( n+ ) , th is ob by in ov th un pa .
th pr di ca th be ex di in te of th in fo th ne ca , x ( n+ ) , an th in an ta fo th n ob ca , wi an me of th mo pa .
wh is mo , ra th ex ou pr kn in te of a pr fo th pa , we ca in in ov th pa to ob a pr di fo th ta in an se of ca .
a pr di fo an un ta ca th be ob by co on th kn ta .
th op ar mo ea ca ou if al th di ar ga .
fo , ga pr ar ex en to re a wi va of in re mo , ma of wh wo ha an in nu of pa if fo in mo co
be di su no mo , ho , it ma he to se ho th sc
wo fo a si li re mo , wh ca be wr as
t ( i ) = +
u u + ( i )
wh ( i ) is th ga no fo ca i , as to be in fr ca to ca , an to ha me ze an va 12 bu th an th u ar un .
fo th mo , we wi as th 12
le us gi an th u in ga pr wi me of ze an va u .
fo an se of ca wi xe in , x ( 12 ) , x ( 12 ) , .
. , th pr di fo pa im a pr di fo th as ta va , t ( 12 ) , t ( 12 ) , .
. , wh
wi be mu ga , wi me ze , an wi co gi by
co ( i ) , t ( j ) i = e " +
u u + ( i ) ! +
u + ij
u u + j ! #
wh ij is on if i = j an ze ot .
th me an co fu ar su to de a ga pr gi a di ov po re be th in an th ta .
( st sp , on mi wi to co th te ga pr to di ov fu fr th in to th ta .
th re ab is no fu , si ( du to no ) t ( i ) ma di fr t ( j ) ev if x ( i ) is id to x ( j ) .
th lo us is co he , ho . )
su no th we kn th in , x ( 12 ) , .
, x ( n ) , fo n ob ca , as we as x ( n+ ) , th in in a ca fo wh we wi to pr th ta .
we ca us eq ( 12 ) to co th n+ by n+ co ma of th as ta , t ( 12 ) , .
, t ( n ) , t ( n+ ) .
to wi th as th th me ar ze , th co de a ga jo di fo th ta in th ob an un ca .
we ca co on th kn ta to ob th pr di fo t ( n+ ) gi t ( 12 ) , .
, t ( n ) .
we - kn re ( eg , vo mi 12 , se 12 ) sh th th pr di is ga , wi me an va gi by
t ( 12 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = kt c1 t t ( 12 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = v kt c1 k
wh c is th n by n co ma fo th ta in th ob ca ( fr eq - ti ( 12 ) ) , t = ( t ( 12 ) t ( n ) ) t is th ve of kn ta va in th ca , k is th ve of co be t ( n+ ) an th n kn ta , an v is th pr va of t ( n+ ) ( ie , co ( t ( n+ ) , t ( n+ ) ) fr eq ( 12 ) ) .
in pr , ou pr kn wi us no be su to x ap va fo th hy th de th co ( , , an th u fo th si mo of eq ( 12 ) ) .
we wi th gi pr di to th hy , an ba pr on a sa of va fr th po di .
sa fr th po di re co of th lo li ba on th n ob ca , wh is
lo de c
tt c1 t
th de of l ca al be co , an us wh sa , as de in se - ti 12 an 12
th pr is un ex fo th si re mo ju di , wh is be ha by mo st co pr .
ho , th ga
pr pr ca ha mo in mo by si us a di co fu th th of eq ( 12 ) .
fo ex , a re mo ba on ar sm fu ca be ob us th co fu
co ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 12 ex
u ) 12 ! + ij
he , an th u ar hy , wh wo us be gi so pr di - ti ra th be xe .
ot po fo th co fu ar di in
re mo wi no - ga no an mo fo cl pr , wh th ta ar fr th se ( 12 , .
, k 12 ) , ca be de in te of a ga pr mo fo la va as wi ea ca .
th la va ar us to de a di fo th ta in a ca .
fo ex , a lo mo fo bi ta ca be de in te of la va
y ( i ) by le th di fo th ta in ca i be gi by
th la va ar gi so ga pr pr , su as
p ( t ( i ) = 12 ) = h1 + ex ( ci : 12 ) y ( i ) ( ci : 12 ) i1
co ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 12 ex
th co fu gi a mo in wh th pr of th ta be 12 va sm as a fu of th in .
wh th ar th or mo cl , an an mo ca be de us k la
k 12 , wh de cl pr as fo :
va fo ea ca , y ( i )
, y ( i )
p ( t ( i ) = k ) = ex ( ci : 12 ) y ( i )
th k la va ca be gi in ga pr pr .
( th re is re , bu re th re by fo on of th la va to al be ze wo in an ar as in th pr . )
fo co re , th co fu of eq ( 12 ) mu us be mo -
ie by th ad of at le a sm am of ji , as fo :
co ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 12 ex
u ) 12 ! + ij 12
he , j gi th am of ji , wh is si to th no in a re mo .
in a sm am of ji ( eg , j = 12 ) ma th ma co be
co , an im th ec of sa , wh ha on a sm ee on
th ee of a pr mo ca be pr by us a la am of ji .
a pr mo fo bi ta co be de di in te of la va , z ( i ) , ha a co fu wi ji , as fo :
p ( t ( i ) = 12 ) = ( ci : 12 ) z ( i ) ( ci : 12 )
wh is th st ga cu di fu .
th fo of th pr mo ca be mi us la va , y ( i ) , wh co fu in a ji te ( as in eq ( 12 ) ) .
wh j = 12 , th y ( i ) ca be re as su of ji - fr la va , z ( i ) , an in ji of va on .
a pr mo ca th be
p ( t ( i ) = 12 | y ( i ) ) = ( ci : 12 ) y ( i ) ( ci : 12 )
wh ( y ) = ( 12 if y < 12 12 if y >= 12 ) .
in ov th ji in y ( i ) gi th ee of eq ( 12 ) .
fi , sc up th ma of bo th ji an no - ji pa of th co ( eg , so th j = 12 ) wi le th ee of eq ( 12 ) un , at wh po th th fu ca be re by th lo fu of eq ( 12 ) , si th ma of y ( i ) wi us be la en th th va of th lo fu wi be cl to ze or on . 12
if th co fu us al th la va to be an fu of th in ( pl ji ) , th sa cl pr wi be re us ei a lo or a pr mo .
th tw so of mo wo di on in th ex pr ov cl pr - bi fu th th em .
it is no ye cl wh of th tw mo wi be be in ty si .
it is al po to ma th am of ji be a hy , al th da to de wh of th tw mo is mo ap , or to se an in mo .
la va ca al be us to de re mo wi no - ga no , wi th la va be th no - fr va of th re fu .
( in pr , it is us ne to in a sm am of ji in th co fu fo th la va , wh ha th ee of in so mi am of ga no . ) a t di fo th no is pa co , si it ca be ex in te of a ga no mo in wh th no va fo th ca ar in dr fr an in ga di .
in th im of th mo , th ca - by - ca no va ar ex re , an sa .
th la va ar ne to sa fo th no va , bu ca be di on us fo th pu .
12 wo be po fo th so to al th op of us th or fu in of th lo , th al a pr mo to be im ex , bu th is no do at th mo .
it mi al be po to al th lo to be re by an fu th pr th ex lo mo wh so ni am of ji is us , bu th ha no be in in de ei .
12 co fu an th hy
a wi va of co fu ca be us in th ga pr fr , su - je to th re th a va co fu mu re in a po se co ma fo th ta in a se of an nu of ca , in wh th in ta on an po va .
in a ba mo , th co fu wi us de on va hy , wh ar th gi pr di .
su hy - pa ca co th am of no in a re mo , th sc of va in th re fu , th de to wh va in va ar re , an th ma of di ad co of a mo .
th po di of th hy wi be co on va th ar ap fo th da th wa
ch th se of va co fu is no tr , as se by th ex - si di in th bo by ya ( 12 ) .
on wa to co a va of co - an fu is by ad an mu to ot co fu , si th el - by - el su or pr of an tw sy , po se ma is al sy an po se ( ho an jo 12 , 12 . 12 an 12 . 12 ) .
su of co fu ar us in de mo wi an ad st , si th co fu fo a su of in ga pr is si th su of th se co fu .
pr of co fu ar us in de a co fu fo ca wi mu in in te of co fu fo si in .
th cu so su co fu th ar th su of on or mo te
of th fo ty :
12 ) a co pa , wh is th sa fo an pa of ca , re of th in in th ca .
th ad a co co to th re fu ( or to th la va fo a cl mo ) , wi th pr fo th va of th co co ha th va gi by th co te in th co fu .
12 ) a li pa , wh fo th co be ca i an j ha th fo
th pr a li fu of th in , as se in se 12 , or ad a li co to th fu , if th ar ot te in th co as we .
12 ) a ji pa , wh is ze fo di ca , an a co fo th co of a ca wi it .
ji is us to im th co of th ma co , or to pr th ee of a pr cl mo .
th no in a re mo is si , bu is tr se in th im ( ji ae th la va , an th th th ta no ae on th ta ) .
12 ) an nu of ex pa , ea of wh , fo th co be ca i
an j , ha th fo
if th ar se ex pa , th ma us di va of r , , an th u .
fo th co fu to be po de , r mu be in th ra 12 to 12
th de va of r = 12 pr a fu ( or ad co of a fu ) th is in di , bu no co to be of an pa fo .
th pa of th te in th co fu ma be xe , or th ma be tr as hy , wi gi pr di , ex th th po , r , fo an ex pa mu cu be xe .
so of th po di ov fu th ca be ob us co fu of th fo ar il in fi 12
( th ar fu of a si in , so th in u is dr ) .
th to le an to ri ea sh fu dr ra fr a ga pr wi a co fu co of a si ex pa .
th di ov wh th fu va by an am co to it fu ra , gi by 12 / , is sm fo th to - ri th th to - le .
th bo le sh fu ge us a co fu th is th su of co , li , an ex pa .
th ma of th ex pa , gi by , is ra sm , so th fu de on sl fr st li .
th bo ri sh fu dr fr a pr wh co fu is th su of tw ex pa , th pr va at di sc , an wi di ma .
th so ca pr su pl of ra dr fu in on an tw di , us th ch de of th co ma fo th ta ov a gr of in po , as de in se 12
fo pr wi mo th on in va , th u an u pa co th de to wh ea in is re to pr th ta .
if u is cl to ze , in u wi ha li ee on th de of co be ca ( or at le , li ee on th po of th co du to th ex pa in wh th u hy oc ) .
tw ca co th ha hi co ev if th ha gr di va fo in u ie , in u is ee ig .
in ty ap , th co pa an ji pa ( if an ) of th co wo be gi xe va , bu th av pr in wo no be su to x th ot hy , wh sp th ma of th li an ex pa , an th sc of va an re of th va in .
th st de of th no fo a re mo wo al ty be un .
th hy sh th us be gi fa va pr di .
th di sh be pr , ho , as us an im pr wi of pr an im po .
th pr fo hy su by th so al ta th sa fo .
if is a hy ( al of wh ta on on po va ) , th va of = 12 ca be gi a ga pr wi de
co ( i ) , t ( j ) i = ex ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 )
co ( i ) , t ( j ) i = ex ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 )
co ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 12 + x ( i ) x ( j )
+ 12 ex ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 )
co ( i ) , t ( j ) i = ex ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 ) + 12 ex ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( ci : 12 ) 12 ( ci : 12 )
fi 12 : fu dr fr ga pr wi va co fu .
ea of th gr sh tw fu th we in dr fr th ga pr wi me ze an wi th co fu gi be th gr .
he , is a po sh pa , an is th me of .
th so ac pr sp in te of an 12 ( wh un co to th of th or hy , ) .
la va of pr pr fo co ne 12 , wh sm va of pr va pr . 12
si hy , su as in an ex pa , or th no st de fo a si re mo , ma ei be gi a pr as de ab , or be gi a xe va ( eq to le = ) .
hy th co in gr , su as th u in an ex pa , or th u in a li pa , ca be gi hi pr , ex in te of a hi - le hy as wi th gr , wh ha no di ee on th co fu , bu wh de th me fo th lo - le hy .
fo ex , th u hy fo an ex pa mi be ac by a hi - le hy , .
at th to le , = 12 gi a ga pr of th fo
fo a gi va of , th u hy as wi pa in ar in - pe , wi u = 12
u ha a ga pr wi me , as fo :
p ( u | ) =
no th th sh pa fo th tw le , 12 an 12 , ca be di ( 12 is th sa fo al in , u , ho ) .
th to le of th hi ca be om ( ee , 12 = ) , in wh ca th u ar in .
th lo le of th hi ca al be om ( ee , 12 = ) , in wh ca th u ar al eq to .
fi bo le ca be om ( 12 = 12 = ) , in wh ca th u ha xe va .
th hi pr ca al li to th u pa in th li pa of th co , as we as th no st de fo a re mo wi mo th on ta .
ho , at pr th is no wa of li hy of di ty , no of li hy pe to di pa of th co fu ( eg , th u fo di ex pa ) .
wh th is mo th on ta or la va fo ea ca , th sa hy ar cu us fo th in ga pr th mo th re of ea va to th in .
th on ex to th is th di no st de ar po fo re mo wi mo th on ta .
in co to th el pr fo di co fu , th so cu as th th me fu fo th ga pr is al ze .
th is ap fo pr wh pr kn is va .
no th us a ze me
12 is an ar as to th fo of pr sp , si co no on ho di th pr is , bu al it sh .
th co be xe by le th ga pr be fo = r , wi r be an sp po .
th pr sc is an to th pr us fo ne ne mo , wh r = 12 re in a co pr wi so co ad .
ga pr do no me th we ex th ac re fu to ta on po an ne va ov eq pa of it ra .
if th co fu ha a la co te , we wo no be su if th ac fu we al po , or al ne ( at le ov th ra of in ) .
us a me fu of ze si re ou la of pr kn as to wh th si wi tu ou to be .
in pr , it wi us be de to tr th ta so th th me is ap ze , in or to el an ne fo a la co te in th co .
in a la co te is un be it in th ro - o er in th ma
12 ma co
in re a ga pr mo gi pa va fo it hy - et ca be pe us co in th co ma fo th ta or la va as wi th ob ca .
if ap hy va ar kn a pr , th ma co ar al th ar ne to ma pr fo th ta in ne ca .
in th mo co si wh th hy ar un , su ma co ar us to su th ma ch sa me de in se 12 , an th to ma pr us th re sa of hy va ( an la va , if re ) .
th ce ob in th co is th n by n co ma of th la va un th ob ca , or of th ta va th , fo a re mo .
th co ma , wh we wi de by c , de on th ob in fo th ca , an on th pa va of th hy , bo of wh ar co xe he .
th di of co in c is de by it co nu th ra of it la ei to it sm ei .
co nu is la , ro - o er in th ma co ma ca th to fa or to be hi in .
th po pr ca be co by us co fu th in ji te ( se se 12 ) , si th ji co ad to ev ei of th ma , re th co nu .
wh c is th co ma fo th ta in a re mo , th no va ha an eq ee .
fo mo pr , it ap th th ad of a sm am of ji to th co wi no se ae th st pr of th mo , an ma ev be de .
ac , th so do no at to ha co ma th ar ve
th pr im is ba on nd th ch de of c th is , th lo - tr ma , l , fo wh c = ll .
th ch de ca be fo by a si al ( se , fo ex , th 12 , se 12 ) , wh ru in ti pr to n1
on th ch de ha be fo , th de of c ca ea be co as th sq of th pr of th di el of l .
( in pr , th lo of th de is fo fr th su of th lo of th di
el . ) an us of th ch de is in ge la or ta va fr th pr .
st me ca be us to ra ge a ve , n , co of n in ga va wi me ze an va on .
on ca th co th ve ln , wh wi ha me ze an co ma ll = c .
th pr wa us to pr th pl in fi 12 , us th co ma fo th ta ov a gr of in va , wi th ad of an un am of ji .
th pr us of th ch de is in co th in of c , wh ar bo in th pr di fo a ne ca ( eq ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) ) an in th lo li ( eq ( 12 ) ) .
th co co be pe wi ex nd th in of c , si c1 b ca be fo us th ch de by rs so lv = b fo v us fo su , an th so lt u = v fo u us ba su .
ho , it is mo co to ex co th in , si it wi of be ne an in or to co de of th lo li .
co of c1 is do by ap th pr ju de to co c1 b fo th n ve b th ar al ze ex fo on el wi th va on .
th ta ti pr to n1
on c1 ha be co , we ca pr to ma pr fr a re mo by co b = c1 t , wh t is th ve of ta in th tr ca .
th me of th pr di fo th ta in a te ca ca th be fo in ti pr to n .
we rs co th ve , k , of co be th ta in th te ca an in th n tr ca .
we th co th pr me of eq ( 12 ) as kt b .
th is th me us in th pr im .
an al is to so lu = k fo u an to so lv = t fo v , an th co th pr me as ut v .
th is le ec , ta ti pr to n1 fo ea te ca , bu gi an ma ( 12 ) re th it is mo ac wh c is po co .
if we re th pr va as we as th me , we mu co kt c1 k , fo us in eq ( 12 ) , wh wi ta ti pr to n1
pr fo cl mo in si op , bu fo on th la va as wi a te ca .
a ve of la va , y , as wi th tr ca mu be av .
th ve of co , k , be th la va an th la va in a te ca ca be co , an a pr me an va fo th la va in th te ca ca th be fo as ab .
a sa of va fr th ga pr di ca ea be ob , fr wh mo ca es fo th cl pr in th te ca ca be co by si av th pr th ar ob by su th la va in th sa in eq ( 12 ) or ( 12 ) .
on ma al wi to sa fr th jo po di of th ta or la - te va in a se of ca , ei as pa of so ot co , or in or to pl re fu dr fr th po di .
co on va fo th hy , fo th la va as wi tr ca ( fo a cl mo ) , an fo th ca - by - ca no va ( fo a re mo wi t - di no ) , th di wi be ga , wi me an co gi by ge -
iz of eq ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) .
in a re mo , fo ex , if y is th ve of la va in a se of m te ca , an t is th ve of ta va in n tr ca ,
e ( y | t ) = kt c1 t
co ( y | t ) = w kt c1 k
wh c is th n by n co ma fo th ta in tr ca , w is th m by m co ma fo la va in th te ca , an k is th n by m ma of co be ta in tr ca an la va in te ca .
on th me an co ha be co , a va fo y ca be ge us th ch de of it co ma , as de ab in re to sa fr th pr .
th ma ch me us to sa fr th po di of th hy - ra in a re mo re co of th lo li , l , of eq ( 12 ) .
as se ab , th is ea do us th ch de of c .
fo so of th ma ch sa me , th de of l wi re to th va hy - pe ar al re .
th de of th lo li wi re to a hy ca be wr as fo ( ma an ma 12 ) :
tt c1 c
th tr of th pr in th rs te ca be co in ti pr to n1 , as th c1 ha al be co .
th se te ca al be co in ti pr to n1 , by rs co b = c1 t ( wh is pr ne an , to co l it ) , mu th on th le by th ma of de , an na mu th re by bt .
ap fr th co of b , th pr mu be re fo ea hy , an fo ea re ta , if th is mo th on .
th ma ch me us fo cl mo re a si co ,
bu wi th ve of ta , t , re by th ve of cu la va , y .
fo la da se , th ti re fo th co is do by th re to fo th ch de of c , an to th co c1 , fo wh th nu of op re gr in pr to n1
in , on ma wi me ca , th ti re fo th co ma gr at a ra ev fa th n1 , si la ma wi no t in th fa ca .
th so at to re su ca ee by wh po sc ma al ro ra th do co , bu fo la ma th sl on ou sg ma ca st be su .
fo sm da se ( eg , 12 ca ) , th ti re to co th de of th lo li wi re to th hy ca do , ev th th ti gr on in pr to n1
th ma oc , fo ex , wh th ar ma hy co th re of ma in va , so th co th
ma of de of th co ta a lo of ti .
th co ca be sp up if th in va fo th ex pa of th co ha be sa ( as th ap in th ex fo th de ) .
th so do th wh n is sm en th th me re to do so is no to la wh n is la , th ot op do an .
12 ma ch sa
th co fu fo mo ga pr mo wi co un hy - pa , wh mu be in ov in a fu ba tr .
th nu of hy wi va fr ar th or fo fo a ve si re mo up to se do or mo fo a mo wi ma in , wh re ar in co us hy su as th u of eq ( 12 ) .
ma ch mo ca me ( se ( ne 12 ) fo a re ) se to be th on fe ap to pe - fo th in , at le fo th mo co mo .
fo cl mo , la va fo ea tr ca mu al be in ov , an fo re mo in wh th no ha a t di , we mu in ov th ca - by - ca no va - an .
th la va an va ca be in in th st of th ma ch an sa al wi th hy .
sa fr th po di of th hy is fa by re - se th in lo fo , as th ma th sa me in of th sc of th da .
th wi - us me of gi sa ca ea be ap to th pr , si it se di to sa fr th co di fo on hy gi va fo th ot ( an th la va , if an ) .
th me al co be us wi so si pr di , su as a ga wi di co ma .
th so su th op , al wi a va of ot ma ch sa me .
ho , si me su as th ex th re of hi pr by an in ra wa .
it is pr be fo mo mo to us a me th ca su th ra wa ( ne 12 , 12 ) .
th mo ap wa to su ra wa fo th pr se to be to us th hy mo ca me of du , ke , pe , an ro ( 12 ) , or th va of th me du to ho ( 12 ) .
i ha em th hy mo ca me to do ba in fo ne ne mo ( ne 12 ) , an ra ( 12 ) ha us it fo ga pr re .
se va of th hy mo ca me ar su by th ma ch mo th i us fo bo th ne ne an th ga pr so .
i wi gi on a br , in de of th me he .
mo de ca be fo el ( ne 12 , 12 ra 12 ) .
th hy mo ca me su ra wa by in mo va th ar as wi th po va th ar th fo of in .
fo th ga pr ap , th po va ar th hy de th co fu .
th st of th si ev in th sa wa as th po
an mo of a ph pa tr th a re of va po en .
th mo ca th pa to co in a co di un su ti as a re of hi en ( lo pr ) is en .
th mo mu be ra a bi in or to en th th co di is sa fr , bu no so mu th un ra wa be re .
in pr , th di eq th de ho th po an mo ch th ti ar di , an th bi du to di er is el by ac or re th ne st in th me st .
th le di is us us .
in or to pe a le up , th de of th lo of th po pr wi re to th hy mu be co .
to de wh to ac an up ( or se of up ) , th lo of th po pr mu be fo ( ex fo it no co ) .
th lo po pr is co fr th lo of th pr pr fo th hy , wh ha th ea co ga fo , an th lo li , fr eq ( 12 ) .
th de ar fo by ad th de of th lo pr , wh is ea co , to th de of th lo li , wh is co us eq ( 12 ) .
in th or hy mo ca me of du , et al .
( 12 ) , se le up ar do , af wh a de wh to ac th re is ma .
th mo is al ra at th ti .
a va us wi of st ( ne 12 ) ca be us to in th ac pr .
in th va du to ho ( 12 ) , an ac de is ma af ea le up , af wh th mo is on pa ra .
i re to th as hy mo ca wi pe of th mo .
fo hy mo ca to wo we , ap st fo th le up mu be se if to la a st is us , th ac ra wi be ve lo , bu if th st is to sm , pr wi be ne sl .
di st ca be us fo di hy th is eq to re th hy ( in th lo fo ) us di sc fa .
th so in a he pr th au se a st fo ea hy .
th se ar ba on es of th se de of th lo po de wi re to th hy , wh in ho la a ch ca be ma to a hy wi ge in a re of lo pr .
th au se st ca be ( an us ar ) ma ad by mu th al by so fa , wh is ch on th ba of pr ru .
ac , th re ro of th he is to se th re st fo di hy .
th he us at pr ar ra si .
th st fo hi - le hy - ra ar sc do by th sq ro of th nu of lo - le hy th th co .
th is in ac wi ho on wo ex th wi of th po di to sc .
si , th st fo th no va in a re mo is sc do by th sq ro of th nu of tr ca .
ho , th st fo th ot hy ( eg , th an u hy in an ex pa of th co ) ar no sc on th ba of th nu of tr ca .
wh th is th
ri th to do de on wh th po di fo th hy be mo ti co as th nu of tr ca in .
i co th th po di ar ty mo co th th pr , bu th th do no be mo an mo co as th nu of tr ca in , ex pe fo th u pa in an ex pa wi r < 12 , fo wh th fu pr ar fr .
ma an ma ( 12 ) co th pr in a sp st co , un th as th th ra of th in va in - cr wi th nu of tr ca , wh i pr is no th ty si fo re an cl pr .
if ad tr ca in pr de sa wi a xe re , it se th th ca pr on a li am of in ab th hy , un th fu mo ha a fr na , in wh in is re at al sc .
fo a cl mo , th hy mo ca up of th hy us th li ba on th cu la va as wi tr ca , no on th ta di .
th hy up mu be in wi up of th la va th , fo wh gi sa is pr us .
ne la va ar ch fo ea ca in a se sc . 12 th va ar dr fr th co di fo su a la va gi th ob ta fo th tr ca , an gi th cu va of th hy an al th ot la va .
th de fo th co di is pr to th pr of th li gi th ta , fr eq ( 12 ) or ( 12 ) , an th ga co de gi th ot la va .
th co de fo y ( i ) gi th ot la va , al of wh ar co in y , is pr to ex ( 12 12 yt c1 ) , an ca be fo in ti pr to n if c1 ha al be co .
th na co de is lo - co , an he ca ec be sa fr us th ad re me of gi an wi ( 12 ) .
on c1 ha be co , ta ti pr to n1 , a co gi sa sc ta ti pr on to n1
it th ma se to pe qu a fe gi sa sc be ea up of th hy , as th ad li to th ti re , an pr ma th ma ch mi fa .
th so al su re mo wi t - di no , ex as ga - si no wi ca - by - ca va dr fr an in ga di .
th ma ch mu th sa so fo th ca - by - ca no va , wh ar ne to co th co of th ta .
in on ap , ca - by - ca la va ar ma , an up us gi sa , in a ma an to th us fo cl mo .
gi sa ca th ea be do fo th ca - by - ca no va as we , ba on on th hy co th no le , th la va , an th ta .
th so al su a se ap , ho , in wh la va ar no ke ar pe .
in , la va ar te
12 th ar se la va fo ea ca , it ma no di wh th in lo of th
sc is ov ca or ov th se va fo on ca .
fi 12 : th 12 tr ca us fo th th - wa cl pr .
ea ca is pl ac - co to it va fo x1 an x1 , wi th pl sy in th cl , as fo :
cl 12 = ll sq cl 12 = pl si cl 12 = op tr
ge ju be th no va ar up , us eq ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , an th di af be us to ge ne va fo th no va .
12 ex : a th - wa cl pr
12 , x ( i )
12 , x ( i )
12 , an x ( i )
to de th us of th so fo cl , i ap it to a sy th - wa cl pr .
pa of da it , ( x ( i ) , t ( i ) ) we ge by rs ra dr qu x ( i ) in fr th un di ov th in ( 12 , 12 ) .
th cl of th it , t ( i ) , en as 12 , 12 , or 12 , wa th se as fo : if th tw - di eu di of ( x ( i ) 12 ) fr th po ( 12 , 12 ) wa le th 12 , th cl wa se to 12 ot , if 12 x ( i ) 12 wa le th 12 , th cl wa se to 12 an if ne of th co he , th cl wa se to 12
no th 12 , x ( i ) 12 an x ( i ) 12 , av fo pr of th ta we th va of x ( i ) 12 pl in ga no of st de 12 .
i ge 12 ca in th wa , of wh 12 we us fo tr th mo , an 12 fo te th re pr pe .
th 12 tr ca ar sh in fi 12
12 ha no ee on th cl .
th in , x ( i )
12 , x ( i ) 12 + 12 x ( i )
12 , x ( i ) 12 , an x ( i )
12 , an x ( i )
12 , x ( i )
12 , x ( i )
th da wa mo us a ga pr fo th la va , y ( i ) , wh co - va fu co of th te a co pa ( xe at 12 ) , an ex pa in wh th ma , , an th sc fo th fo in , u , we va hy - pa , an a ji pa , xe at j = 12
th fa la am of ji pr an ee cl to a pr mo , as di in se 12
si ea of th u ca va se ( un th co of a co hi - le hy ) , th mo is ca -
pa of di th so of th in ar in fa ir to th ta of pr th ta .
we ho th th po di of u fo th ir in wi be co ne ze , so th th wi no de pr pe .
th pe fo of hy mo ca wa us in th sa , as th al th la va to be re be ea le up of th hy .
a fa lo pe wa us fo th rs fe le up , in or to al en to be di ra at rs ( th re of th mo , an co el of ki en ) .
a la pe wa us th , in or to su ra wa be .
be ev up of th hy , th la va as wi tr ca we up us 12 gi sa sc .
a se of ve of th co gi sa an le up we do in ea sa it , af wh th hy an la va we sa fo po la us .
sa wa co fo 12 su it ( 12 le up ) , wh to ab 12 mi on ou sg ma .
co de re th mo an th sa pr us ma be fo in
th so do , wh th pr is al us as an ex .
th co of th ma ch si ca be as by pl ho th va of th hy ch ov th co of th si .
fi 12 sh th pr of th u hy in th ex pa of th co .
as ho , we se th by ab it 12 , an ap eq ha be re in wh th hy 12 an 12 , as wi th ir in , ha va th ar mu sm th th fo 12 an 12 , wh ar as wi th in th pr in ab th ta cl .
th ma ch si al up th th la va as wi ea tr ca , wh de th cl pr by eq ( 12 ) .
th la va fo a pa tr ca ar pl ov th co of th si in fi 12
th gi sa sc ap to be ee in mo th va ab th eq di fa ra .
to ma pr fo te ca , we ca av to th pr pr ba on it af eq wa ap re .
to re co ti , on ev ft it wa us , st at it 12 ( fo a to of te it ) .
fo ea su it , th co ma fo th la va in tr ca wa in , af wh th pr me an va fo th la va in ea of th 12 te ca wa fo , us th la va fo tr ca sa fo th it .
a sa of 12 po fr th pr di wa us to pr a mo ca es of th pr pr fo ea of th th cl .
th na pr pr we fo by av th pr fo in th wa fo ea of th it us .
th gu fo th cl in a te ca wa th on wi th la pr
fi 12 : pr of th fo re hy du th co of th ma ch si .
th va ar pl on a lo sc , wi 12 = so , 12 = lo da , 12 = sh da , an 12 = do .
fi 12 : th la va as wi on tr ca , fo wh x1 = 12 , x1 = 12 , an t = 12 , ov th co of th ma ch si .
th th la va ar sh as cl 12 = so , cl 12 = da , an cl 12 = do .
th pr to ab 12 mi on ou sg ma .
th cl er ra on th 12 te ca wa 12 .
th pe is cl to th of an an ne ne mo .
a pr co of pr pe wi th of ot cl - ca me is be th sc of th pa .
( ra ( 12 ) ha do ex co of ga pr mo wi ot me fo re pr . )
as ex , th ti re fo th pr va co wi th nu of tr ca .
wi on 12 tr ca , th ti fo th ma ch si wa ab 12 mi an th ti re to ma pr fo th 12 te ca wa le th a mi .
th cl er ra us on th rs 12 tr ca wa 12 .
12 ex : a re pr wi ou
to de ho th so ca be us to ha re pr wi ou , i ap a ga pr mo wi no - ga no to a si sy pr wi a si in va .
ca we ge in wh th in va , x , wa dr fr a st ga di , an th co ta va ca fr a di wi me of
12 + 12 x + 12 si ( 12 x ) + 12 / ( 12 + x1 )
fo mo ca , th di of th ta ab th me wa ga wi st de 12 .
ho , wi pr 12 , a ca wa ma an ou , fo wh th st de wa 12 in .
th da wa mo us a ga pr fo th ex va of th ta , wi th no as to co fr a t di wi 12 de of fr .
th is no pa cl to th ac no di , as de ab , bu th he ta of th t di ma ne al th da to be mo wi th ou ha an un ee .
fo co , th da wa al mo un th as of ga no .
th da an th pr fr th tw mo ar sh in fi 12
fo th mo , th co fu us co a co pa ( xe at 12 ) an an ex pa ( wi va hy ) .
th mo wi no - ga no al in a sm am of ji ( j = 12 ) , in or to im th co of th ma co us to sa fo th la va .
th ji is eq to a sm am of ad no in th mo si th am of ot no is a va hy , th on re ee is to co th to no to be no le th th
ma ch sa fo th mo wi t - di no wa do by al hy - br mo ca up fo th hy ( ea co of 12 le up ) wi up fo th ca - by - ca no va .
la va we ge in or to al gi sa up fo th no va , us eq ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) , bu we di th .
th ma ch wa si fo 12 su it , an
fi 12 : th re pr wi ou .
th 12 tr ca ar sh as do , wi th in on th ho ax , an th ta on th ve ax .
th so li gi th me of th pr di us a mo in wh th no wa as to co fr a t di wi 12 de of fr .
th do li gi th me of th pr di us a mo in wh th no wa as to be ga .
pr we th ma ba on ev ft it af it 12
th ti re fo th si wa ab si mi on ou sg ma .
fu de of th mo an th ma ch me ca be ob fr th
de of th ex in th so do .
as ca be se in fi 12 , th mo wi t - di no pr pr th se mo re th th pr by th mo wi ga no , ba ju on lo at th sc of th da .
th pr us t - di no ar al cl to th tr fu .
th so de in th pa ex th sc of ga pr mo to cl pr an to re pr wi no - ga no , by us a ma ch mo ca me in wh la va fo ea ca ar re .
mo ca be ba on a va of co fu , wh ca be de in te of hy wi hi pr .
th im al al a wi va of ma ch sa me to be us .
wi th fa , th us of ga pr mo fo a va of pr ca be ex .
th ex in th pa sh th ga pr mo ca be pr ap to cl pr of mo si , an to re pr
wi no - ga no ot ex of re an cl mo ar in in th so do .
on ma fo fo fu wo is to ex th us of el co fu in re pr .
th fa si mo of se 12 il - tr ho th hy de th co fu ca ad de ho re th va in ar fo pr th ta .
th ra of co fu im pe hi mo th ar mo el th th .
fo ex , by in se ex pa in th co fu , ea wi a se se of re hy , it is po to de a pr di th pu co pr we on mo th ar of a ne ad fo , in wh th fu is de in th su of se fu , ea of wh de on on a sm su of th in .
su a mo ca au de an ap ad de , if an ad mo is in fa ap .
th mi a si id fo ne ne mo ( ne 12 , se 12 ) .
th im de he is ra st .
mo op ar pe - fo in th si wa th gi ac re .
a nu of mo ca be co .
fa co co pr be ob by up th la va us hy mo ca ra th gi sa .
co ti fo ma op mi be re by us th co gr ap of gi an ma ( 12 ) .
in an di , on mi lo fo wa of re or el th ne fo ji in th co fu , si al th ap to us be an ac so to th pr of po co ma , th ma be so ci wh it is un , su as wh us a ga pr to mo no - fr da fr co ex ( eg , sa , we , mi , an wy 12 ) .
ev wi fu al im , ga pr mo ar no fe fo da of up to ab a th ca , us fa ru - of - th - mi co , pr on is wi to wa up to se ho fo re on th la da .
us th mo is th a fe op fo ma re an cl pr .
de th fa un n1 gr in me re an n1 gr in co ti of th pr ga pr al , im in co te ov th ne fe ye wi li al th mo to be ap to mo pr en in pr .
be of th ea wi wh ex hi mo ca be de us ga pr , i be th th wi pr to be am th mo us te fo no re an cl .
i th ca ra fo ma he di , an fo th op to le fr th im of ga pr re th he us fo hi th .
i al th da ma an ch wi fo th co on th ma .
th re wa su by th na sc an en re co of ca .
