we in bi ma fa , a no mo fo un ma - tr de .
th de is le by tt a no - pa ba pr mo wi bi la va to a ma of dy da .
un bi - cl mo , wh as ea ro or co to a si cl ba on a ca hi fe , ou bi fe mo re th pr be th it an at ca be as wi mo th on la cl at a ti .
we pr si le an in ru fo th ne mo an sh ho to ex it to an in mo in wh th nu of fe is no a pr xe bu is al to gr wi th si of th da .
12 di re fo dy da
on of th ma go of pr un le is to di un or hi st in a da by us la va to de a co da ge pr .
in th pa we fo on dy da : ou do ha tw ni se of ob / en an ob - ti ar ma on dy ( pa wi on el fr ea se ) .
ex in sp ma of mo - vi ra , wo - do co or pr - cu pu .
a si wa to ca st in th ki of da is to do bi - cl ( po us mi mo ) by gr th ro an ( in or si ) th co ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th mo as -
su in su a ca is th mo co in ty an vi in ty an th kn co st : ea it ( ro ) ha as wi it an un ve of bi fe si ea at ( co ) ha a hi ve of bi fe .
kn th ma in ( a di de by ) th pr , wh an ar bi fe ma , an is a re - va we ma .
be , we de th bi ma fa
th ty of mo an ty of vi is su to pr th re .
cl or mi mo ar qu re th ma di is th th do no ad a co or di re be it ca si be to se cl .
( a mo , fo ex , mi be ex as co fr a cl of dr or co a vi as a si ma or as a yo mo . ) we mi in pr a mo ( e . g .
( 12 , 12 ) ) in wh ob ca be as to mu la cl : a mo mi be a dr an ha wo an os - ca an ha su a vi mi be si an fe an a un gr .
in in su mo fa un th br ar of fa le ( e . g .
( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) ) , in wh mu in la ca ex ea ob da .
fe of th it an th fe of th at ar su to ge ( be no ) th re at th lo in th ma .
in ef , we ar fa a re - va da ( re )
in th pa , we as th bo da it ( ro ) an at ( co ) ha th ki of
( b ) bm sh pi .
fi 12 : ( a ) th gr mo re of th li - ga bm mo .
th co -
( bm ) mo us ba no - pa pr ov th nu an va of th un bi fe an th un we .
tr pa an be we fo th co of ar re by th sy ( ci : 12 ) an ( ci : 12 ) .
bi ma fa is a mo of an dy da ma wi ex ro an co .
th en of ca be re - va , bi , or ca bm mo su fo ea ty ar de be .
as wi ea ro is a la bi fe ve i; si ea co ha an un bi ve .
th pr pa ar re by a ma of in we . x is ge by a xe ob pr ap wh ar ex pa sp to th mo va .
th po pa fo fo th no ( ob ) di ar : ga , wi me lo , wi me an po , wi me ( an va ) uw ma an th we .
we ad th sa pr ov bi ma as pr de in ( 12 ) .
fo ni si ma wi ro an co , we ge a bi ( ci : 12 ) k in fo ea co us a be pr ( de ) an th co on th bi ge th en in co in fr a be wi me ( ci : 12 ) k .
( ci : 12 ) kj ( ci : 12 ) ; ( ci : 12 ) b ( ci : 12 ) =; ( ci : 12 ) wh ik .
th hy on th co ( ci : 12 ) is a ga di ( de ) , th bi ( ci : 12 ) ar ea in ou , wh cr de be th ro , al th re ex .
th re pr de on on th nu of ac fe in ea co .
an id pr is us on , wi ro an co , bu wi di co pr ( ci : 12 ) .
th va ( ci : 12 ) wa se to fo al ex .
th ap pr di ov we de on th ob di .
fo th li - ga va , a co pr on is a ma no wi pr me
ot pa fo ar al po .
fo il pu , we wi us th li - ga mo th th pa th ca be th of as a tw - si ve of th li - ga mo fo in ( 12 ) .
( el ) to th li in pr of th fe an we , wh is th fa or ap of th da :
to co th de of th mo , we ne to sp pr di ov th fe
wh sh an sc hy co th ex fr of ze / on in th ma .
12 bm mo de
12 in of fe an pa
te no to co it ex ma ) .
ho , as wi ma ot no - pa ba mo , we ca em ma ch mo ca ( mc ) me to cr an it pr - du wh , if ru fo su lo , wi pr co po sa .
12 fi bi la fe ma
on in te of th bi fe .
th is tr , fo ex , wh we pl a ga pr on th we an us a li - ga ou pr .
ex ro an a po in nu of co ( al th ex nu of co wh ar no en ze re ni ) .
su a di , th in bu pr ( ib ) wa de by ( 12 ) an is an to th di pr an th as ch re pr ( cr ) ( 12 ) .
fo , as we wi se , in wi th in pr is no on tr , bu is al ne as ef as th ni ve .
co ( ci : 12 ) .
th sc ( ci : 12 ) of th we an ou pr ( ci : 12 ) ( if ne ) ha ga in ce ca , wh th pr on th we is co to th ou di mo , th we ma be an in ou , ex th ma di of th da re , th be - be pr di ov ( an si ) ca ea be ex to th ca wh ! 12 , cr a di ov bi ma wi a xe nu of as wi ma ot co hi ba mo , ex in of th la va an in th bm mo is in ( ie th is no ef wa to sa ex fr th po - th po di of a si en in ( or ) gi al ot mo pa is pr - fr in ou th bi ( ci : 12 ) in th be - be mo an is pr th nu of si en of ( or ) ca be do us th fo up : ik ( ci : 12 ) 12 ik ( 12 ) wh hk , ui ex en , an is a no co .
( co on ( ci : 12 ) ; an ( ci : 12 ) is im . ) wh co on , we on ne to ca th ra of li - ho co to ro .
( no th th is no th ca wh th we ar in ou . ) th ra is a si fu of th mo pr ih ( wh ik ) an ^x ih ( wh ik ) .
in th li - ga ca : w an hy .
to si th pr , we co a ve re of ou va .
le be an co ve ta co - wi fr , w be a co ve ta co - wi fr an be a bi ma wh is th kr pr v ( ci : 12 ) u .
( in ma no , x= : ;w : an . ) in th no , th da di is wr as : xj ( ci : 12 ) ( ci : 12 ) aw ( ci : 12 ) .
gi va fo an , sa ca be dr fo , ( ci : 12 ) , an ( ci : 12 ) us th fo po di ( wh co on w; ( ci : 12 ) ; ( ci : 12 ) ;a ( ci : 12 ) ;b ( ci : 12 ) ;a ( ci : 12 ) ;b ( ci : 12 ) is im ) :
ti to th pr of th co pr an th da li .
th co pr co
ac en in ot ro of th sa co pl a te fo ne ac .
gi sa fo
in th li - ga ca , we ca ea de an gi sa up fo th we
le se a ha at le on no - ze en
co , in th se of co wh
12 in bi la fe ma
an th co in nu of al - ze co .
sa va fo el in ro
on of th mo el as of no - pa ba mo is th ab to us a pr wh al a co in nu of la fe .
th nu of in fe is au ad du in an de on th am of da an ho ma fe it su .
re , we ca do mc sa us su in pr wi es no
no th we do no ha to ex co th ma .
fo co th po of li - ga we , th ma ca be co as .
si , th ex is co by co an ta th el co - wi .
co pe ov th ni ca .
to de th up ( e . g .
fo ro of th ma ) , it is us to co pa th co of in tw se as sh be .
in ro ot th .
le se b be al ot
th on no - ze en ar fo in ro
i of se a gi ev el is st -
ti ( 12 ) an ( 12 ) ; as ! 12 an in se a we in in th nu of en ? b in se b wh wi be tu on in ro .
sa th nu of en se to ca be do wi me - ha up .
le ? bj po ? bj ( ci : 12 ) = ( ci : 12 ) 12 be th pr di fo a mo wh re th cu ac en wi ? b ac en in se b .
th re pr is ? b .
th ac , wh ! ? b is th as a co si in wh th we ar ex in ou of th mo to co th ma li ? b .
in th no - co ca , a mo co - ca pr is re .
in of pr ? b , we jo pr ? b an as fe pa ? b fr th pr di .
in th li - ga mo , wh ? b is a se of ? b; ? bj po ? bj ( ci : 12 ) = ( ci : 12 ) 12 no ? bj ? b; ( ci : 12 ) we ne ac sa on th ni po of ? b wh ik
as in th co ca , th th gi up de ab fo th en of , v an ar th si mo we co
wh sa ne va fo se b , th co ar ex , an so we ar re on
wa , an in gi up al id - ti to th in th ni ca ha by eq -
we fo fe in se b , th pr di is :
ac ra re to th ra of da li :
12 fa mi tr pr
ma in a ma ch mo ca in pr fo th bm mo .
ho , th
li lo up ma re in ex sl mi .
in pr , we of im la mo in in sp us , fo ex , me - ha pr on mu fe
an co th pr un th co pr of pr th cu co .
th ac pr of su a pr is ( th ma of un an ) th ra of li be th ne pr co an th cu co .
sp - me mo ma al be us fo ef sa fr th po di of th bi fe ma .
ja an ne ( 12 ) de sp - me al fo di pr mi mo wi no - co co di .
we ha de an im si sp - me pr fo bi ma wi ib pr .
du to sp li , we
ra .
if th ar in th sa co , we pr sp th co if th ar in di co , we pr me th co .
th ke di be th al an th ja an ne al is th th bi fe ar no co to su to un in ea ro
a ma re fo bu ge mo of da is to be ab to im mi da va gi so ob .
in th li - ga mo , th pr di at ea it of th ma ch is a ga di .
th in we ca be an in ou at ea it , al re in a ga po , re sa no co by ha th we ex re .
co th ex pr di , ho , co on on th mo hy , is an in : it re in
fo ro si .
fo ex , we ca pr ne va fo se co in ro of ma by sa fe va in fr th co pr .
to co th re pr , we im fo th cu co of th fe fo ro pr he on a sk of th pr .
tw no en in ar se un at sp - me al al pe re gi sc on co of to in ac ov al bi ma an , an al ot nu pa ( e . g . , th we an pr - by av pr di , ou al im in ov an .
ex , we sh sa fr th po of an to he ex wh th mo is wi de , fo ex , on th cu va of ( ci : 12 ) an ( ci : 12 ) ( hi va wi re in mo fe ) tu .
da co of ve of si th ge pr is as fo : si ha th sa nu of ro as th di of th im , v is xe to be a se of ve an ho ba ( wh re in an im ) . u is sa fr th ib , an gl pr ( ci : 12 ) an ( ci : 12 ) ar se to
th we ar sa fr ze me ga .
mo es of an we in fr an ib pr .
th ex re us mc sa of , v , an .
de th re hi
a to pr co us to il ad fe or mu ca mo is th ba pr ( ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) ) .
ve an ho ba ar co in so wa to ge da sa - pl .
th go of th il is to sh re of th la st in th fo of ba .
we ha mo th ty us of ba to ac th li - ga bm wi in fe - wh ea ve ca be re in a sq im .
si ) .
in we in ov th pa im by av pr di fr ma mc it .
th po , wh is co on on th ob da an hy - pe , is hi co , po mu , an no - li fu of th ob
in fi 12 we de th pe of th li - ga bm on th ba da .
we tr th bm wi 12 tr ex of th ty sh in th to ro in fi 12
so ex ha th bo ha la mi an ar sh in th fi wi co gr va .
to ha th , we re th va at ea it of th ma ch .
th bo ro sh
do , bu we st th th po ma ha si ma on ma po bi ma .
th nu of fe an th de of ov wi va ov mc it .
su va
an pr va ( hi we pr re in le va in we ) .
12 mo ba pr
no le in th da , th mo is ab to ca th co re be ba an we .
th re of ve ba is ve go .
th re of ho ba is go as we , co th th mo ha no in re th ex of ho ba on th bo ha .
( a ) da sa
( b ) no - fr da
ba so on th in in th to - ha of th or da , th ar th no - fr ne
( c ) in re
( d ) me re
( e ) ne ne
fi 12 : ba re .
( a ) ba ra sa fr th co da .
th bo ha of th ba we re an la mi du le .
( b ) no - fr ve of th sa da .
( c ) th in re .
th mi va ha be se to th ex va ,
12 , to hi th mi re .
( d ) th av mc re of th en im .
( e ) ne in pi sp . v fi 12 : ba fe .
th to ro sh va of an se ro sh a sa of an fr th ma ch . wv se of ba im wh ca be ad to wi bi co ( u ) to cr im .
in fi 12 we sh th ge , or tr , va of an fe fr th ma ch .
be th mo is ge by ad mu ar fa si to th ge ca fe .
th le co of ov ba st ( le ) .
we tr lo bm wi 12 ex ea of di , 12 , an fr th us da .
in sh th me an mo ( xi : 12 ) of th bm re .
in th bo ro we th av im of th da wh ha ea fe in on .
it is cl th so ro fe ha di di fo an ot ar ov .
in ro g , th ba im by ad th fe th ar no - ze in ea ro of , im ar co by ad ba im to .
fi , in ro h we sh .
th pi fe ma ou di re in
by ex th fe ca by th mo , we ca un th pe ju de .
al wi on sa of th im sh on th ri of fi 12 , mu ba ar us in ea im .
th is re in th , bu th fo ar
th rs ve ro of fi 12 we ag il th ab of bm to im mi da va .
th to ro sh al 12 sa fr th da wh ha th bo ha la mi .
mi va ar ll - in at ea it of th ma ch .
in th th an fo ro we
in se 12 we br st th bm ca be ap to da mo ot th th li - ga mo .
we de th wi a lo bm ap to bi im of ha di .
us to ge th da .
th ca be th of as a
ha sh th ne ne , in pi sp , to th tr ex ba on on th to ha of th or di .
in th la th ro of fi 12 we sh th fe ca by th mo .
in ro f , we sh
pi sp , wh ar we to to cr th ba im .
no th th ar fe in ro f an g , an fe in ro h .
re a bi fe .
12 ge ex da
( a ) di ra sa fr th co da .
th fi 12 : di re .
bo ha of th di we re an la mi du le .
( b ) th da sh to th al .
th to ha is th or da va .
( c ) th me of th re fo th bo ha .
( d ) th mo re of th bo ha .
( e ) th ne ne of th or da ar sh in th bo ha , an we fo ba so on th in
fr th to ha of th im .
( f ) th av of al di fo ea fe .
( g ) th fe re in th fo of di .
by ad th fe to , wh th fe do , re of th di is po .
( h ) v re in th fo of di .
th rs im ba sp ca of ou mo in wh th ma is di an th nu of bi - of th da an it ex re ar or su th co re in we ob - in bm to mo ge ex da wo be to x ce co of or wi kn
na fe is xe .
ou go in th ex is me to il qu th ab of bm to nd mu cl in ge ex da , so of wh ar ov , ot no - ov .
th da in th ex co of ro co to ge an co co to pa th pa su fr on of tw ty of ac le ( 12 ) .
in fi 12 we sh th fa pr by th na st in th ma ch .
th ro an co
ge ex da is ab to ex mu an ov cl si nd mo fo su co da is an in an ac re ar ( ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) ) .
th pl mo ( 12 ) , or in fo an of ge ex da , ca be th of as a no -
se .
so of th ma fe pa ar hi .
th bm cl co of br , ov cl , an sm , no - ov cl .
on of th in po of us -
ga fr ex or li , an to al th mo to ad ne fe th he ex th da in mo de .
we ha in a ne mo , bi ma fa , fo un de of dy da ma .
bm ma us of no - pa ba me to si di - co bi di re of bo ro an co of dy da .
th mo ex - pl ea ro an co en us a co co co of mu bi la fe al wi a se of pa de ho th fe in to cr th ob re at ea po in th ma .
bm is ba on a hi ba mo an ca be na ex to ma us of a pr di wh pe an in nu of fe , at ve li ex co co .
we ha gi mc al fo po in of bo th bi fa an th in pa co on so ob da , an
fi 12 : ge ex re .
( a ) th to - le is so ac to co fe in th na an in th ma ch .
th bo - le is an th to - ri is .
th bo - ri is .
( b ) th sa as ( a ) , bu th ex va of , ^x re th ha bo ik an on .
fo cl , we ha on sh th ( at mo ) tw la
we ha hi
co re fo ea fe pa .
de th mo ab to ca ov st an mo co jo di - ti on a va of da .
bm is fu di fr bi - cl al be of it di la re an fr fa mo wi co la va wh in li to pr th ob .
th al a mu ri la st , wh we be ma bm us fo ma ap be th on we ou in th pa .
