the pro of acc a can mov in the hyb mon car alg can be inc by con a tra to be bet win of sev sta at the beg and end of the tra , wit a sta wit the sel win - dow bei cho acc to the bol pro .
the det bal con use to jus the alg sti hol wit thi pro , pro the sta sta is ran pos wit its win .
the new pro is sho emp to sig imp per for a tes sys of unc os -
( fig 123 , 123 , and 123 are not pre in thi ver . )
the hyb mon car alg of dua , ken , pen , and row ( 123 ) is a met of sam fro com dis , suc as tho enc in sta phy , tha com the adv of dyn met ( 123 ) wit tho of the met mon car met ( 123 ) .
the and rel met are rev by tou ( 123 ) .
the pro is to sim a sys par by a vec , q , of dim n , wit a die pot ene fun , e ( q ) .
thi ene fun ind a bol dis ove q , for whi the pro den is
p ( q ) = z 123
whe ze =rr exp ( e ( q ) ) dq .
( a tem of one is ass thr , for
the aim of the sim is to est the exp of som fun , h ( q ) :
hhi = zrn
h ( q ) p ( q ) dq
whe q12 , q12 , .
, qn1 are obt fro the sim , and are eac dis acc to the bol dis for q ( but are not , in gen , ind ) .
i wil rst des the dyn app to sol thi pro , whi sue fro sys err in the sam , and the des the hyb mon car met , whi eli thi err by acc onl som of the dyn mov .
nex , i pre and jus a gen of thi alg in whi mov are mad bet win of sta at the beg and end of a tra , rat tha bet sin sta .
sit in whi thi alg wil hav a hig acc pro tha the sta alg are the ill , and an emp com is giv for sys of unc osc .
fin , i dis two var on the alg tha may be use in som cir .
123 the dyn met
in the dyn sim met , we int a mom vec , p , whi , lik q , has dim n , and a ham fun , h ( q , p ) , tha inc bot pot and kin ene :
h ( q , p ) = e ( q ) + 123
we the see to sam fro the bol dis tha h ind on the
pha spa , ( q , p ) , for whi the den is
p ( q , p ) = z 123
h exp ( h ( q , p ) ) = p ( q ) p ( p )
whe zh =rr exp ( h ( q , p ) ) dq dp , and
p ( p ) = ( 123 ) n / 123 exp ( 123
thi sam is gen by sim an erg mar cha tha has the bol dis for ( q , p ) as its sta dis .
val of q fro suc sta of thi mar cha , who mar dis is tha of equ - tio ( 123 ) , are use to est hhi usi equ ( 123 ) .
thi mar cha ope by alt dyn tra wit sto
the dyn tra con of sim the sys for som pre
per in a cti tim , , usi ham equ :
the equ lea h inv .
fur , the vol of a reg of pha spa rem con as it evo acc to thi dyn ( lio the - in con , the dyn tra sam reg of con h
the sto tra all reg wit die val of h to be exp .
the con of rep p wit a val pic fro its bol dis ( equ ( 123 ) ) .
suc tra cle lea the bol dis of ( q , p ) wit res to h inv .
the pre of the sto tra wil als usu be eno to ens tha the mar cha is erg i . e .
tha the sys can mov to any poi in pha spa .
it is gen des tha the tra sim in the dyn tra - sit be lon eno tha the rea con alm ind of the sta con .
thi avo the slo exp , at the rat of a ran wal , tha wou res if the dir of mot wer fre ran by
in pra , the dyn mus be sim wit som nit ste siz .
the lea met is gen use , wit the fol ste bei ite som pre num of tim , l , wit som spe ste siz , :
123 ) = p ( )
123 e ( q ( ) )
q ( + ) = q ( ) + p ( +
p ( + ) = p ( +
123 e ( q ( + ) )
thi dis map sti pre pha spa vol exa .
how , wit a nit , it doe not lea h exa con .
thi wil int som sys err int the sam .
123 the hyb mon car alg
the sys err of the dyn met is eli in the hyb mon car alg ( 123 ) by con the end - poi of the tra fou wit the lea met to be mer a can for the nex sta of the mar cha , to be acc or rej as in the met mon car alg ( 123 ) .
acc or rej of the can sta is bas on the amo , h , by whi h for the can sta exc h for the cur sta .
the pro of acc , a ( h ) , is giv by
a ( h ) = min ( 123 , exp ( h ) )
thu can sta wit low h are alw acc , whi tho wit hig h are acc wit pro exp ( h ) .
if the can sta is rej , the new sta is the sam as the cur sta ( and is cou aga in the ave of
the val of thi pro for pro a sam fro the bol dis - but is mor eas see if we ima tha the tra for a dyn tra is com usi a val for who sig is cho at ran , wit pos and neg val bei equ lik .
the lea met ( equ ( 123 ) to ( 123 ) ) is tim - rev , so tha a for tra , wit a pos , and a bac tra , wit the cor neg , are inv of eac oth , a fac cru - cia to the jus of the alg .
in fac , usu pra is to alw use a pos , sin an eec equ to ran cho its sig is pro in any cas by the ran of the dir of p in the sto tra .
to sho tha the bol dis ( equ ( 123 ) ) is inv und suc dyn tra , it suc to sho tha the tra sat the con kno as det bal tha the pro of a tra fro a to b occ is the sam as tha for a tra fro b to a , giv tha the sta sta is bol dis .
to see tha det bal hol , con a sma reg of vol v aro the poi a = ( qa , pa ) .
sup tha a for tra fro a lea to the poi b = ( qb , pb ) .
the oth poi in the reg aro a wil lea to a reg aro b , whi wil als hav vol v , sin the lea met pre pha spa vol .
due to tim rev , a bac tra fro b wil lea to a .
the det bal con wit res to the reg aro a and b can now be wri as
p ( qa , pa ) v 123
123 a ( h ( qb , pb ) h ( qa , pa ) )
= p ( qb , pb ) v 123
123 a ( h ( qa , pa ) h ( qb , pb ) )
the lef sid of the abo equ is the pro of mov fro the reg aro a to the reg aro b .
the rst fac is the bol pro for
bei in the reg aro a at the sta , the sec fac ( 123 123 ) is the pro of sel a for dir for the tra , and the thi fac is the pro tha thi tra wil be acc .
the rig sid exp the pro of mov fro the reg aro b to the reg aro a in ana fas .
the equ of the two pro is see by sub fro equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
the det bal con can be sim ver for the cas whe a bac tra fro a is cho .
the bol dis is als inv wit res to the sto tra - sit , whi sim rep p wit a val cho fro its bol dis .
thu , if ( as we exp ) the mar cha is erg , it wil hav the bol dis - tri as its uni sta dis .
123 an acc pro usi win
the sta hyb mon car alg can be gen to con a win of sta at the end of the tra as can des for a dyn tra , rat tha jus a sin end sta .
in ord to mai det bal , a pos mov to thi win mus be con in rel to an equ - siz win aro the cur sta , wit the loc of the cur sta wit tha win bei det ran .
due to thi lat req , the tra may hav to be com for som num of ste in the rev of its pri dir .
acc or rej of a mov bet win is bas on the tot pro of the sta the con .
whi win is sel , a par sta wit tha win is the pic acc to the bol pro .
thi pro can sig inc the pro of acc a mov , as wil be dis in sec 123
fir , tho , i wil den the alg in mor
to beg , val for the tot num of ste in the tra , l , the bas ste siz , 123 , and the win siz , w , are sel fro som xed dis , wit 123 w l + 123
a for or bac dir , , for the tra is the cho , wit equ pro for = +12 and = 123 , and an ose , k , for the cur sta wit the sta win is sel , wit k ( 123 , .
, w 123 ) , eac pos val bei equ lik .
a rev por of the tra is the com by app the lea met wit a ste siz of = 123 , beg wit the sta sta , x ( 123 ) .
thi is don for k ite , pro sta lab x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( k ) .
the sta sta is the res , and the lea met is app wit a ste siz of = +12 for l k ite , pro sta x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( l k ) .
the rej win at the fro of the tra , aro the cur sta , is den as the set r = ( x ( k ) , .
, x ( k + w 123 ) ) .
the acc win at the far end of the tra is den as a = ( x ( l k w + 123 ) , .
, x ( l k ) ) .
the win may ove .
the fre ene for a win is den as fol :
f ( w ) = log xxw
the fre ene are use to dec whe the nex sta wil com fro the acc win or the rej win .
usi the acc fun of equ ( 123 ) , the acc win is sel wit pro a ( f ) whe f = f ( a ) f ( r ) ; oth we rem in the rej win ( whi con the cur sta ) .
hav dec on the win w , a par sta wit tha win is the sel acc to the pro
p ( x ) = exp ( h ( x ) + f ( w ) )
the sta sel bec the nex sta in the mar cha .
whe imp the gen alg , it is not nec to sav all the sta in the acc and rej win .
one nee onl sav the sta sta , so it can be res aft the rev por of the tra has bee cal , alo wit a sin sta fro the acc win and a sin sta fro the rej win , one or the oth of whi wil bec the nex sta of the mar cha .
a be the fre ene for the rst i sta tha hav bee vis in the acc win , and let c i a be a sta cho acc to the bol pro fro amo the rst i sta .
the var can be cal inc as new sta in the acc win are vis .
to sta , f 123 and c 123 a is und .
whe we vis the i - th sta in the acc win , ( qi , pi ) , we can cal
in det , let f i
a = log ( cid : 123 ) exp ( h ( qi , pi ) ) + exp ( f i12 a = ( c i12
wit pro exp ( f i12
( qi , pi ) wit pro exp ( h ( qi , pi ) + f i
a + f i
onc all sta hav bee vis , we wil hav f ( a ) = f w a wil be a sta pic fro a acc to the bol pro .
ana var , f i and c i r are mai for the rej win .
onc all sta hav bee see , a dec as to whe to use the acc win or the rej win can eas be mad , and , in eit cas , a sta sel fro the cho win is ava .
a , and c w
whe w = 123 , the gen alg is equ to the sta hyb mon car alg .
whe w = l + 123 the pro red to sim pic a sta fro tho any alo the tra in acc wit the bol pro .
som sim in the imp is the pos .
123 val of the gen alg
to dem the val of the gen alg , we nee to sho tha the det bal con hol for the dyn tra .
as l , w , and 123 are cho fro a xed dis , ind of the cur sta , we may cho to reg the as xed , sin if det bal hol for tra wit any val of the par , it wil hol for a mix of suc tra .
it wil pro nec to ave ove the val sel for and k , how .
det bal wil be pro sep for tra to a sta in the acc win and for tho to a sta in the rej win .
if the two win ove , as the wil if w > ( l + 123 ) / 123 , the wil for som pai of sta be the pos of tra of eit typ .
if det bal hol for the two typ of tra ind , how , it wil als hol for the com .
to pro det bal for tra wit the rej win , not rst tha the set of pos tra ( for the var val of and k ) tha sta at sta a and tha inc sta b in the rej win is the sam as the set of tra tha sta at b and inc a in the rej win .
her , a tra is den as the set of sta vis , alo wit the sub of sta tha mak up the acc and rej win .
in det , if for the tra sta at a = xa ( 123 ) , wit dir a and win ose ka , we hav b = xa ( j ) wit the rej win , the the ide tra wil be pro by sta at b = xb ( 123 ) , wit dir b = a and win ose kb = ka + j , and a = xb ( j ) wil be in the rej
we can thu pro det bal sep for eac suc tra .
the pro of bei in a sma reg of vol v aro a , of the pic val for and k tha gen a par tra for whi a sta in the reg of b is in the rej win , of the cho to pic a sta fro the rej win , and of nal cho the sta in the reg of b as the nex sta , is as fol :
p ( qa , pa ) v
( 123 a ( f ( a ) f ( r ) ) ) exp ( h ( qb , pb ) + f ( r ) )
the pro of gen the sam tra sta fro the reg of b , and of the end up in the reg of a , is
p ( qb , pb ) v
( 123 a ( f ( a ) f ( r ) ) ) exp ( h ( qa , pa ) + f ( r ) )
the are rea see to be equ upo sub fro equ ( 123 ) .
det bal for tra to a sta in the acc win fol sim , usi the fac tha the set of pos tra tha sta at sta a and tha inc sta b in the acc win is the sam as the set of tra tha sta at b and inc a in the acc win , exc tha in the lat tra the acc and rej win are exc .
in det , if for the tra sta at a = xa ( 123 ) , wit win ose ka and dir a , we hav b = xa ( j ) wit
the acc win , aa , whi a is in the rej win , ra , the the tra pro by sta at b = xb ( 123 ) , wit win ose kb = l ka j and b = a , wil lea to a = xb ( j ) bei in the acc win , ab , whi b is in the rej win , rb .
fur , we wil hav aa = rb and ra = ab .
the pro of bei in a sma reg of vol v aro a , of the pic val for and k tha gen a par tra for whi a sta in the reg of b is in the acc win , of the cho to pic a sta fro the acc win , and of nal cho the sta in the reg of b as the nex sta , is as
p ( qa , pa ) v
a ( f ( aa ) f ( ra ) ) exp ( h ( qb , pb ) + f ( aa ) )
for the pro of gen the sam tra , but wit acc and rej win exc , sta fro the reg of b , and of the pic a sta in the reg of a , we hav
p ( qb , pb ) v
a ( f ( ab ) f ( rb ) ) exp ( h ( qa , pa ) + f ( ab ) )
aga , the are see to be equ upo sub fro equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , rem tha aa = rb and ra = ab .
123 acc pro for the gen alg
two sit whe the use of win wil inc the acc pro of the hyb mon car alg are ill in fig 123
in the tra of fig 123 ( a ) , the ene of the sta in the rej win , at the sta of the tra , are all app equ to the ene of the cur sta , h12
mos of the sta in the acc win , at the end of the tra , hav ene in the vic of h+ , muc gre tha tha of the cur sta .
how , one sta has a muc low ene , h .
if the sta hyb mon car alg is app in thi sit , wit the end - poi of the tra ran pic fro the las w sta sho , the pro of acc wil be app 123 / w , sin mov to sta wit ene h+ wou alm cer be rej , whi a mov to the one sta wit ene h wou be acc .
in con , if the gen alg is app wit a win of siz w , the
mov wil alw be acc .
the fre ene of the rej win wil be
f ( r ) log ( w exp ( h12 ) ) h12 log ( w )
ass h+ h , the fre ene of the acc win wil be
f ( a ) log ( ( w 123 ) exp ( h+ ) + exp ( h ) ) h
thu , if h12 h > log ( w ) , the mov wil be acc , and the par sta cho wit the acc win wil alm cer be the one wit ene h .
not tha it is ess to thi exa tha a sta in the acc win hav low ene tha tho in the rej win .
if thi is not the cas , the acc pro is the sam as for the sta alg .
the tra of fig 123 ( b ) ill a die , per mor typ , sit - uat whe the use of win als inc the acc pro .
her , bot win con app equ num of low and hig ene sta .
not tha the cur sta is lik to be one of the low ene one , sin it is
wit the sta alg , the end sta mig equ wel be one of hig ene or one of low ene .
in the for cas , the mov wou lik be rej , whi in the lat , it wou hav a goo pro of bei acc .
the tot acc pro wil thu be aro 123 / 123
if the gen alg is use wit a win siz lar com to the tim sca of ene uct , how , the fre ene of bot the acc and rej win wil be app equ , and the acc pro wil be nea one .
the par sta cho wit the acc win wil lik be one wit low ene .
the exa sho tha the use of win can be ben , but the do not ind the mag of the ben , nor whe the is any imp in the asy for of the tim req as sys siz inc .
ind , for xed val of l , 123 , and w , the acc pro dec exp wit inc sys siz , as for the sta alg .
thi sca beh is due to the fre ene of the win , and hen the die , bei ext qua tha inc in pro to sys siz .
123 per for a sys of unc osc
to gai som ins int the deg of ben fro usi the gen alg , and int its sca beh , i hav tes it emp on sys of unc osc .
the sim sys are mea to mod mor com sys in whi the com are not com ind , but int onl wea .
the beh of the sta hyb mon car alg for sys of unc osc has bee ana in det by ken and pen ( 123 ) .
the pot ene fun for suc a sys is
in the bol dis wit res to e , eac qi is ind , and dis - tri as a gau wit zer mea and sta dev 123 / i .
sin the
ope of the hyb mon car alg is inv wit res to tra - tio and rot of the coo , the sys in fac mod the beh of the alg as app to any mul gau dis .
not tha for the lea met to be sta , wit the err in h rem bou eve for lon tra , it is nec for the ste siz to be les tha 123 / max , whe max is the lar of the i .
for eci exp of the oth coo , the ave len of a tra in cti tim , tt , sho be in the vic of 123 / min .
in usi the sys as a tes bed , we mus be cle con whi asp of the sys we exp to car ove to rea pro , and whi wil not .
i ass her tha the app mag of min and max and the gen dis of the i are kno , and tha the may be use to sel app val for the ste siz and tra len .
i ass tha the exa val wou not be kno in a rea sys ind , the wil not be pre den , sin the com of the rea sys wil not be com unc .
to mod thi , the ste siz ( and hen the tra len as wel ) was var sli at ran , in ord to avo res tha dep on pre tun of the par .
i wil als ass tha we are int in sys for whi the rat max / min is lar .
thi rat is a mea of the inh dic of the pro , bei ( rou ) the num of lea ste req to gen an ind con - ura .
in the exp , the len in cti tim of a tra was cho to be lar eno for the acc pro to hav rea equ .
in a rea sys , how , the app tra len ( tt 123 / min ) mig wel be muc lon tha thi .
sin cho any par val for tt wou be arb , i hav for the mos par eva the alg on the ass tha tt is ver lar .
the cos of a par com of win siz and ave ste siz was acc tak to be
c = 123 / ( ( 123 ) )
whe is the pro of a mov bei rej , and is the ave ste siz ( rec tha the act ste siz use wil be sli per aro thi ave - age ) .
thi cos mea is pro to the num of ene gra eva nee to gen a giv num of acc mov of ave len tt , pro tt is muc gre tha tw , the len in cti tim of the win .
not tha thi cos mea pla no val on tra wit the rej win , tho the pre imp sam at lea som .
if tw is com to tt , the the abo mea wou not be app , sin it ign the eor exp in com tho por of the tra tha lie bef the cur sta and aft the new sta .
an app cos in thi cas wou be ( 123 + tw / tt ) / ( ( 123 ) ) .
i ass tha for a giv win len , tw , and a giv sys siz , n , the
val of tha min c can fea be fou , and tha thi min val of c is thu the app mea of the cos of the alg for a par win len .
if the rej pro has the fun for
= f ( g ( n ) k )
the one can sho by str mea tha thi min is rea at a val of tha is ind of n .
the sca pro of the alg can the be fou by det how mus dec as n inc in ord to kee the rej pro con .
not tha we are mea cos as the num of eva of the ene gra , not the tim req for the eva .
com tim per eva wil var wit sys siz in a man whi dep on the app , but whi wil gen add an add fac of at lea n to the tot com tim as a fun of sys siz .
i hav tes the sta and the gen alg on sys for whi n = 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123
in eac cas , the i wer sel ran fro the ran 123 to 123 , wit a uni dis for log ( ) .
tho i ass tha com wit muc sma wou als be pre in a rea sys , suc wer not act inc in the sim , in ord to sav tim .
the inc wou hav had a neg eec on the acc pro , sin the acc of the lea met is ver hig whe 123 / is muc gre tha the ste siz .
an ave tra len of tt = 123 123 ( 123 / max ) was use .
sev of the sim wer don wit tt = 123 as wel , and the res con tha the acc pro had ind rea equ at tt = 123
for a giv ave ste siz , , and for a giv win siz , w , the num of ste in the ent tra , l , was set so tha tt = ( lw +12 ) .
( thi cal acc for the ave num of ste bef and aft the cur and new sta . ) the tra was the com wit the val of l and w and wit a val of 123 ran sel fro the reg wit 123 of the giv .
run wer don of the sta alg , for whi w = 123 , and of the gen - era alg wit a win len of tw = 123 , for whi the num of sta in the win was w = tw / .
som run wit tw = 123 and tw = 123 wer don as wel , wit res tha wer sim to but not qui as goo as tho for tw = 123 .
val for of .
, 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , .
. , in geo ste of 123 / 123 wer use .
in eac run , 123 tra wer gen sta fro pos and mom coo pic fro the bol dis - tri , ind for eac tra .
the pro of rej mov , , was tak to be an est of the rej pro , .
the sta err for thi est is 123 at = 123 , dec to 123 at = 123 or = 123
est , bc , for the cos fol fro equ ( 123 ) .
the res are sho in fig 123 , whi plo the est rej pro and con cos for eac val of n and for var val of , for bot the sta alg and the gen alg wit tw = 123 .
whe the bes
val of is use in eac cas , the cos of the gen alg is rou hal tha of the sta alg , wit som ind tha the adv of the gen alg may be gre for the lar n .
int , the rej pro wit the opt is sig low for the gen alg tha for sta alg .
in ana thi dat fur , we can rst com wit the ana res of ( 123 ) .
the der the fol exp for the rej pro of the sta alg app to a sys of unc osc ( ada fro the equ
i sin ( itt ) / 123
ass tha the sma ran var in , and hen tt , is eno to ran the pha in thi sum , and usi the fac tha 123 , we get tha , for the exp des her , the rej
whe = n 123 123
sin ( x ) dx = 123 pro sho be
whe = n 123 123
i 123 123
the rej pro thu has the for of equ ( 123 ) .
as sys siz inc , sho be sca as n 123 / 123 in ord to kee the rej pro con , and the cos wil gro as n 123 / 123
in fig 123 , is plo aga n 123 for all run of the sta alg .
as exp , app to be a fun of n 123 , as the spr in the dat poi in com to the sta err .
( not tha her , and in fig 123 , the sta err is app lar for sma val of , due to the log sca . ) com wit the exa pre of equ ( 123 ) ( not sho in the gur ) sho a goo t , exc for a sli dep for lar val of the rej rat .
we can hyp tha the rej pro of the gen alg for a giv win len wil als be a fun of n 123
if thi is the cas , the cos for the gen alg wil als sca as n 123 / 123 , tho the cou , as see abo , be an imp in the con fac ove the sta alg .
to tes thi hyp , fig 123 als sho plo aga n 123 for all run of the gen alg wit tw = 123 .
a ten of the cur for the lar n to lie bel tho for the sma n is app , lea one to rej thi hyp .
the dat for the gen alg is bet t by the alt hyp tha the rej pro is a fun of n 123 / 123 123
thi is see in fig 123
for com , the dat for the sta alg is als plo und thi ass , and it is cle tha in thi cas the t is bad .
if thi hyp is tru , the the ste siz for the gen alg sho be sca as n 123 / 123 to mai a con rej rat , and the cos wil con - seq gro wit sys siz as n 123 / 123 , an imp ove the n 123 / 123 sca
of the sta alg .
thi res mus be reg as ten , how .
it see pos tha for ver lar n the win len , tw , mig hav to inc at som rat in ord to mai goo sca beh .
thi wou ult aec the cos , onc tw bec com to tt .
beh cou als con dep on the exa dis of the i .
a the ana is thu nee to gai a bet und of the per of the gen alg .
it is cle , how , tha at the ver lea , it can imp per by a sig
123 var on the alg
two var on the gen alg des her are wor men .
fir , whe a mov to the acc win is rej , it is val to sim re - mai at the cur sta , rat tha sel a new sta fro the rej win acc to the bol pro .
thi fol fro the fac tha det bal was sho abo to hol ind for the acc and rej tra .
det bal thu con to hol if all rej tra are eli .
wit thi var , the ove of sav sta is som red .
typ - cal , how , thi ove is sma com to the cos of eva the gra of the ene , and its eli may not be wor giv up the add exp - rat pro by the rej tra .
not tha it is in any cas nec to vis all the sta in the rej win , in ord to com its fre ene .
a sec var may be use whe the ide ste siz is not kno a pri .
in suc cas , we may hav to use ste siz sel at ran fro a fai bro dis .
tra com wit a ste siz tha is too lar wil res in lar cha in h and are unl to be acc .
to sav com , we can ter suc tra ear , sto whe - eve a sin lea ste cha h by an amo , pos or neg , who mag is gre tha som thr .
the sta rea aft thi lar cha in h is not inc .
suc tru tra wil hav sma tha nor acc and / or rej win , but exa of the pro of val in sec 123 sho tha the may val be tre the sam way as nor tra .
the acc win for a tru tra may , in fac , be nul , in whi cas the mov is rej .
( the rej win wil alw con at lea the cur sta . ) thi var is app to the sta hyb mon car alg , whe the win siz is one .
in thi cas , all tru tra are rej , wit the cur sta rem unc .
i tha dav mac for hel com .
thi wor was sup by the nat sci and eng res cou of can , and by the ont
inf tec res cen .
