we uce ary rix ion , a vel del for sed ma - rix ion .
the ion is ned by ing a non - ric ian tic del ith ary ent les to a rix of dic ata .
ike bi - ing els , ich ign ach row or umn to a gle ter sed on a cal den ure , our ary ure del cts the ior ief hat ems and tes can be ted ith ore han one ent ter at a ime .
we ide ple ing and nce les for his new del and how how to end it to an ite del in ich the ber of res is not a ori xed but is wed to row ith the ize of the ata .
123 ted ons for dic ata
one of the jor als of tic sed ing is to ver ing or den ure in a set by ing ent les to ibe a lex ata ion ess .
in his per we cus on dic ata : our ins ave two ite ets of cts / ies and rva - ons are ade on ads ( irs ith one ent rom ach set ) .
les ude rse ces of vie - wer ngs , ord - ent nts or uct - mer ses .
a ple way to ure ure in his ind of ata is to do bi - ing ( bly ing ure els ) by ing the ows and ( tly or sly ) the mns ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the ing as -
ion in uch a ase is hat ies ome in pes and ers in pes and hat ing ial ure : ach tem ( row ) has ted ith it an ved tor of ary es; rly ach ute ( umn ) has a den tor of ary res .
ing the ixx nto ( a ion ned by ) the wv> , reu ndv are ary ure ces , ndw is a eal - ued ght rix .
low , we lop his ary rix ion
the ype of vie and ype of wer is ent to ict the nse .
ing or ure els are ite ive eir jor age is hat hey do not mit a ial or ted ion use ems not sly ong to ral ses .
( a vie , for ple , ght be ned as ing rom a ter of mas or es; a wer as a gle ale or as a ung her . ) we ght ead fer a del ( e . g .
( 123 , 123 ) ) in ich cts can be ned to ple ent ers : a vie ght be a ama and ave won an os - car and ave es; a wer ght be gle and ale and a ity ate .
nce in uch els lls der the oad rea of ial ing ( e . g .
( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) , in ich ple ing ent ses ain ach ved tum .
res of the tem and the res of the ute are ent to ate ( ore ise ) the nse at hat ion in the rix .
in ect , we are ing a eal - ued ata ( nse )
in his per , we ume hat oth ata ems ( ows ) and tes ( mns ) ave his ind of
( b ) bmf own lly .
ure 123 : ( a ) the cal del ion of the ear - ian bmf del .
the cen -
( bmf ) del ing ian non - ric ors ver the ber and ues of the ved ary res and the own hts .
ion ter and eta hts for the mns ofx are ted by the ols ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) .
ary rix ion is a del of an dic ata ixx ith ble ows and mns .
the ies ofx can be eal - ued , ary , or al; bmf els ble for ach ype are bed low .
ted ith ach row is a ent ary ure tor i; rly ach umn has an ved ary rvj .
the ary ers are ted by a ixw of ion hts . x is ted by a xed ion ssf ied ere are tra ers cic to the del ant .
ree ble ric rms for the ise ( ion ) onf are : ian , ith wv> tic , ith v>; and son , ith ean ( and nce ) wv> u;v and the tsw .
we opt the ame ors ver ary ces as sly bed in ( 123 ) .
for ite zed esu ith ows and mns , we ate a ias ( cid : 123 ) k tly for ach mnk ing a eta ior ( edb ) and hen ned on his ias ate the ies in mnk tly rom a lli ith ean ( cid : 123 ) k .
( cid : 123 ) kj ( cid : 123 ) ; ( cid : 123 ) b ( cid : 123 ) =; ( cid : 123 ) k=i ik .
the ior on the ion ( cid : 123 ) is a mma ion ( edg ) , the ses ( cid : 123 ) are ily ted out , ich tes ies een the ows , ugh hey ain ble .
the ing ior nds nly on the erk of ive res in ach umn .
an cal ior is sed onv , ith ows and mns , but ith ent ion ior ( cid : 123 ) .
the ble ( cid : 123 ) was set 123 for all nts .
the ate ior ion ver hts nds on the ion onf .
for the ear - ian ant , a ent ior onw is a rix mal ith ior anw
her ric rms are lso ble .
for ive ses , we ill use the ear - ian del out his er; his can be ght of as a two - ded ion of the ear - ian del und in ( 123 ) .
( ise ) to the ear ner uct of the res and hts , ich is the ion or ion of the ata :
to ete the ion of the del , we eed to ify ior ons ver the ure
ose ape and ale ers rol the ted ion of ros / nes in the rix .
123 bmf del ion
123 nce of res and ers
ior nor to ute its act als ) .
ver , as ith any her non - ric ian els , we can loy kov ain nte rlo ( cmc ) ods to ate an ive oce - ure ich , if run for tly ong , ill uce ect ior les .
123 ite ary ent ure ces
nly in rms of the ary res .
his is rue , for ple , hen we ace a ian ior on the hts and use a ear - ian put ess .
ble ows and a lly ite ber of mns ( ugh the ted ber of mns ich are not ely ero ins ite ) .
uch a ion , the ian fet ess ( ibp ) was bed by ( 123 ) and is ous to the let ess and the ted ese ant ess ( crp ) ( 123 ) .
ely , as we ill see , nce ith his ite ior is not nly ble , but is lso rly as ent as the ite ion .
23= ( cid : 123 ) .
the ale ( cid : 123 ) of the hts and put ion ( cid : 123 ) ( if ded ) ave mma in ain ses , hen the ior on the hts is ate to the put ion elf , the hts may be lly ted out , ing the nal ion of the u;v bly , the eta - lli ior ion eru ( and lyv ) can ily be ded to the ase ere ! 123 , ing a ion ver ary ces ith a xed ber of as ith any her lex cal ian els , act nce of the ent esu ndv in the bmf del is ble ( ie ere is no ent way to ple tly rom the pos - the ior ion of a gle try inu ( orv ) ven all her del ers is por - rom ing out the ses ( cid : 123 ) in the eta - lli del and is nal the ber of gle ies ofu ( orv ) can be one ing the ing tes : x=c ( cid : 123 ) ik; v;w ( 123 ) 3=i hk , uik des yik , ndc is a ing ant .
( ing on ( cid : 123 ) ; and ( cid : 123 ) is cit . ) hen ing onw , we nly eed to ate the tio of eli - ods ing to owi .
( ote hat his is not the ase hen the hts are ted out . ) his tio is a ple ion of the els j=h jwh ( hen 123 ) and j=h jwh ( hen 123 ) .
in the ear - ian ase : w and ers .
to ify the ion , we der a zed ion of our les .
etx be an umn tor ken umn - ise omx , w be a umn tor ken umn - ise omw nda be a ary rix ich is the ker uct v ( cid : 123 ) u .
( in lab ion , x=x : w=w : v;u . ) in his ion , the ata ion is ten as : ;w; ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) 23= ( cid : 123 ) .
ven ues oru ndv , les can be awn orw , ( cid : 123 ) , and ( cid : 123 ) ing the ing ior ons ( ere ing on w; ( cid : 123 ) ; ( cid : 123 ) ;a ( cid : 123 ) ;b ( cid : 123 ) ;a ( cid : 123 ) ;b ( cid : 123 ) is cit ) :
nal to the uct of the nal ior and the ata ood .
the nal ior mes
ive ies in her ows of the ame umn lus a erm for new ons .
bbs ing for
in the ear - ian ase , we can ily ive ous bbs ing tes for the hts
let set a ave at ast one non - ero try
mns , ing the set of mns ere
123 ite ary ent ure ces
and the bly ite ber of all - ero mns .
ing ues for nts in row
one of the ost ant cts of non - ric ian ing is the ity to use a ior ich ows a bly ite ber of ent res .
the ber of ted res is lly ted ing nce and nds on the unt of ata and how any res it rts .
bly , we can do cmc ing ing uch ite ors ith lly no
ote hat we do not ave to tly ute the ixa .
for ing the ior of ear - ian hts , the a>a can be ted u>u .
rly , the a>x is ted by >xv and ing the nts umn - ise .
nal lty ver the ite ase .
to ive ese tes ( e . g .
for owi of the ixu ) , it is ful to der ing the mns ofu nto two ets as own low .
in ows her ani .
let set b be all her
the nly non - ero ies are und in owi
i of set a ven ing lse is for -
ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ; as ! 123 ndk in set a we ted in the ber of ies ? b in set b ich ill be ned on in owi .
ing the ber of ies set 123 can be one ith lis - ngs tes .
let ? jb= son ? bj ( cid : 123 ) = ( cid : 123 ) 123 be the sal ion for a ove ich ces the ntb ive ies ith ? b ive ies in set b .
the rse sal sbj ? b .
the nce , reb ! ? b is his mes a ate ion in ich the tsw are tly ted out of the del to ute the nal dxj ? b .
in the non - ate ase , a ore pli - ted sal is red .
ead of ing ? b , we tly ose ? b and ted ure rsw ? b rom eir ior ons .
in the ear - ian del , rew ? b is a set of ? b;w ? wb= son ? bj ( cid : 123 ) = ( cid : 123 ) 123 alw ? bj ? b; ( cid : 123 ) we eed lly ple nly the ite ion ofw ? b ere 123
as in the ate ase , the the bbs tes bed ove for the ies ofu , v ndw are the est ves we uld
hen ing new ues for set b , the mns are ble , and so we are lly nly
ard , and ves bbs tes ost den - cal to ose in the ite ase led by qua -
hts for res in set b , the sal ion is :
nce tio ces to the tio of ata ods :
123 ter ing ion als
ake in a kov ain nte rlo nce ure for the bmf del .
ver , ese
ted cal tes may ult in ely low ing .
in ice , we ten ent ger ves in tor ace ing , for ple , lis - ngs als on ple res
and ute the ity der the nal ior of ing the ent ion .
the nce ity of uch a sal is ( the mum of ity and ) the tio of ods een the new sed ion and the ent ion .
lit - rge ves may lso be ful for tly ing rom the ior ion of the ary ure ces .
ain and eal ( 123 ) ibe lit - rge hms for let ess ure els ith non - ate ent ons .
we ave ped and ted lar lit - rge als for ary ces ith ibp ors .
due to ace ons , we
dom .
if hey are in the ame umn , we ose ing hat mn; if hey are in ent mns , we ose ing eir mns .
the key nce een his thm and the ain and eal thm is hat the ary res are not ned to sum to ity in ach row
a jor son for ing ive els of ata is to be ble to ute ing ata ues ven ome ons .
in the ear - ian del , the ive ion at ach ion of the kov ain is a ian ion .
the ion hts can be lly ted out at ach ion , lso ing in a ian ior , ing ing ise ted by ing the hts tly ted .
ing the act ive ion , ver , nal nly on the del ers , is lly ble : it res ing
for owi sly .
for ple , we can ose new ues for ral mns in owi of ixu by ing ure ues tly rom eir nal ors .
to ute the rse sal , we ine ing the ent ion of ose res for owi ent ere nly a tch of the ure .
two ero ies inu are ted mly at lit - rge thm lso rms ted bbs ans on mns ofu to ase nce ver all ary esu ndv , and all her nce ers ( e . g . , the hts and eci - by ing ive ons , our thm tly tes eru ndv .
nts , we how les rom the ors ofu ndv to elp ain hat the del is ill end , for ple , on the ent lue of ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) ( her ues ill ult in ore res ) res .
ata sts of ors of 123 the ion ess is as ows : cev has the ame ber of ows as the ion of the ges , v is xed to be a set of cal and tal ars ( hen ped nto an age ) . u is led rom the ibp , and bal ons ( cid : 123 ) and ( cid : 123 ) are set 123
the tsw are led rom ero ean ans .
del tes ofu ndv ere zed rom an ibp ior .
the ted ion ing cmc les ofu , v , ndw .
ite the ely igh
a toy lem nly sed to ate ive ure or ple use els is the ars lem ( ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) ) .
cal and tal ars are ned in ome way to ate ata sam - les .
the oal of the ion is to how ery of the ent ure in the orm of ars .
we ave ied the cal age of ars to ate the ear - ian bmf ith ite fea - ere ach tor can be ped nto a are age .
ons ) .
ead we ate ver ese ers tly by ing ive ons rom any cmc ons .
his ior , ich is nal nly on the ved ata and hy - ers , is hly lex , lly dal , and non - ear ion of the ved
in ure 123 we ate the nce of the ear - ian bmf on the ars ata .
we ain the bmf ith 123 ing les of the ype own in the top row in ure 123
ome les ave eir tom ves led ing and are own in the ure ith ant rey ues .
to dle his , we ple eir ues at ach ion of the kov ain .
the tom row ows
ing , but we ess hat the ior may ave ant ass on any ble ary ces .
the ber of res and eir ees of lap ill ary ver cmc ons .
uch ion
and ion ues ( her ght ion lts in ess ion in hts ) .
123 ied ars lem
ise els in the ata , the del is ble to ure the lex ips een ars and hts .
the ion of cal ars is ery ood .
the ion of tal ars is ood as ell , ing hat the del has no ion ing the nce of tal ars on the tom alf .
( a ) ata les
( b ) ise - ree ata
sed ely on the ion in the top - alf of the nal ata , ese are the ise - ree est
( c ) ial ion
( d ) ean ion
( e ) est our
ure 123 : ars ion .
( a ) ars mly led rom the ete set .
the tom alf of ese ars ere ved and led ing ing ing .
( b ) ise - ree ons of the ame ata .
( c ) the ial ion .
the ing ues ave een set to eir ted lue ,
123 , to ght the ing ion .
( d ) the age cmc ion of the ire age .
( e ) urs in xel ace . v ure 123 : ars res .
the top row ows ues ofv wv> ond row ows a ple ofv wv> rom the kov ain . wv> set of sis ges ich can be ded her ith ary nts ( u ) to ate ges .
in ure 123 we how the ing , or rue , ues ofv wv> res rom the kov ain .
use the del is ted by ing wv> are rly lar to the wv> red res .
the wv> sed of ing bar ure ( edv ) .
we ain tic bmf ith 123 les ach of 123 , 123 , 123 rom the sps set .
in how the ean and ode ( 123 : 123 ) of the bmf ion .
in the tom row we the age age of the ata ich ave ach ure inu on .
it is ear hat ome row res ave nct git rms and ers are ing .
in row g , the sis wv> by ing the res hat are non - ero in ach row ofu , ges are sed by ing sis ges her .
lly , in row h we owv .
ese xel res ask out ent ons in
by ing the res red by the del , we can and the nce ust bed .
ong ith one ple of ose ges own on the ght of ure 123 , ple ars are sed in ach age .
his is ted in the , but the mer are
the rst ve ows of ure 123 we ain ate the ity of bmf to ute ing ata ues .
the top row ows all 123 les rom the set ich had eir tom ves led ing .
ing ues are led - in at ach ion of the kov ain .
in the ird and rth ows we
in ion 123 we iey ted hat bmf can be ied to ata els her han the ear - ian del .
we ate his ith a tic bmf ied to zed ges of ten its .
sed to ate the ata .
the can be ght of as a
ave own the est ors , in xel ace , to the ing les sed nly on the top ves of the nal its .
in the ast ree ows of ure 123 we how the res red by the del .
in row f , we how
xel ace , ich are ted her to ate the sis ges .
ote hat ere are res in ows f and g , and res in row h .
nts a ias ure .
123 ene ion ata
( a ) its mly led rom the ete set .
the ure 123 : its ion .
tom alf of ese its ere ved and led ing ing ing .
( b ) the ata own to the thm .
the top alf is the nal ata lue .
( c ) the ean of the ion for the tom ves .
( d ) the ode ion of the tom ves .
( e ) the est urs of the nal ata are own in the tom alf , and ere und sed ely on the ion
rom the top ves of the ges .
( f ) the age of all its for chu ure .
( g ) the ure ped in the orm of its .
by ing ese res her , ich heu res do , ons of the its is ble .
( h ) v ped nto the orm of its .
the rst age ian ial ase of our del in ich the ixw is nal and the ber of bi - of the ata and its ted ion are red uch hat ous ons inx ere ob - ing bmf to del ene ion ata uld be to x ain mns ofu orv ith dge
ary res is xed .
our oal in his ent is ely to ate ely the ity of bmf to nd ple ers in ene ion ata , ome of ich are ing , ers non - ing .
the ata in his ent sts of ows ing to nes and mns ing to ts; the nts fer rom one of two pes of ute mia ( 123 ) .
in ure 123 we how the ion ced by the nal ate in the kov ain .
the ows and mns
ene ion ata is ble to bit ple and ing ers ly; ing els for uch lex ata is an ing and ive rch rea ( ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
the aid del ( 123 ) , lly ced for sis of ene ion ata , can be ght of as a non -
ble .
ome of the any ure ngs are ted .
the bmf ers ist of oad , ing ers , and all , non - ing ers .
one of the ing ies of us -
ned rom nts or ure , and to low the del to add new res hat elp ain the ata in ore ail .
we ave ced a new del , ary rix ion , for sed ion of dic ata ces .
bmf kes use of non - ric ian ods to sly dis - ver ary ted ons of oth ows and mns of dic ata .
the del ex - ins ach row and umn ity ing a ial ode sed of ple ary ent res ong ith a set of ers ing how the res act to ate the ved ses at ach ion in the rix .
bmf is sed on a cal ian del and can be lly ded to ake use of a ior ion ich its an ite ber of res , at ery tle tra nal ost .
we ave ven cmc hms for ior nce of oth the ary ors and the ion ers ned on ome ved ata , and
ure 123 : ene ion lts .
( a ) the top - eft isx ted ing to ous res in the alu ndv in the kov ain .
the tom - eft sv> and the top - ght isu .
the tom - ght isw .
( b ) the ame as ( a ) , but the ted lue ofx , wv> ons hat ave oth ik dvj on .
for ity , we ave nly own the ( at ost ) two est
we ave ted
ous ons for ach ure air .
ted the els ity to ure ing ure and del lex int ibu - ons on a ety of ata .
bmf is lly ent rom bi - ing hms use of its ted ent ion and rom ial els ith ous ent les ich act rly to uce the ons .
his ows a uch her ent ure , ich we eve kes bmf ful for any ons ond the nes we ned in his per .
