act .
ian ses are a ral way of ing ior ons ver unc - ons of one or ore put les .
in a ple ric ion lem , ere uch a ion ves the ean of a ian ion for an ved nse , a ian ess del can ily be ted ing rix ons hat are ble for ets of up to out a and ses .
ers hat ene the nce ion of the ian ess can be led ing kov ain ods .
ion els ere the ise has a t ion and tic or bit els for ion ons can be ted by ing as ell for ent ues un - ing the ons .
are is now ble hat nts ese ods ing nce ons ith cal ons .
els ned in his way can ver igh - vel ies of the ata , uch as ich uts are ant to ing
a ric ian ion del ust be sed on a ior ion ver the ite - nal ace of ble ion ons .
it has een own for any ars hat uch ors ver ons can be ned ing ian ses ( gan 123 ) , and lly the ame del has ong een sed in ial ics der the ame of ing .
ian ses eem to ave een ely red as ral - ose re - ion els , ver , art rom the ial ase of ing nes ( hba 123 ) , and ome ons to ing ise - ree ata rom ter nts ( eg , ack , lch , ell , and ynn 123 ) .
tly , i ave own hat any ian ion els sed on ral rks rge to ian ses in the mit of an ite ork ( eal 123 ) .
his has ted ion of ian ess els for the igh - nal ons to ich ral rks are lly ied ( ams and sen 123 ) .
the cal ork of sen ( 123 ) has ted hat aus - ian ess els ave ter ive nce han ral her ric
ion ods ver a nge of sks ith ing ics .
the ual sim - ity , ity , and ood nce of ian ess els uld ake hem ery ive for a ide nge of ems .
one son for the ous ect of ian ess ion may be hat in a ard ion it ves rix ons ose ime nts row as the ube of the ber of ses , and ose ace nts row as the are of the ber of ses .
nty ars ago , his may ave ted use of uch els to ets ith ess han out a red ses , but ith ern ers , it is ble to ply ian ess els to ets ith a and or ore ses .
it may lso be ble to uce the ime nts ing ore ted hms ( bbs and kay
the ics of a ian ess del can ily be led by ing the nce ion in rms of ers .
one ach to ing ese per - ers to the ved ata is to ate hem by mum ood ( or mum zed ood ) , as has ong een one in the ext of ial ics ( eg , dia and all 123 ) .
in a lly ian ach , the ers are ven ior ons .
ons are hen ade by ing ver the ior ion for the ers , ich can be one ing kov ain nte rlo ods .
ese two hes ten ive lar lts ( ams and sen 123 , sen 123 ) , but the lly ian ach may be ore ust hen the els are ate .
ing ian ess els to ion ems nts new nal ems , nce the int ion of all ies is no ger ian .
ate ods of ian nce for uch els ave een sed by ber and ams ( 123 ) and by bbs and kay ( 23b ) .
a ral ach to tly ing ssi - ion and her zed els ( eg , for a son nse ) is to use a kov ain nte rlo eme in ich ved ent ues ted ith ach ase are tly ted .
his per ies his ach to ion ing tic or bit els , and to ion els in ich the ise ows a t ion .
i ave ten are in c for nix ems hat nts ian ess ods for ion and ion , hin the ame ork as is sed by my ian ral ork are .
his are is is ely ble for rch and nal use . 123 the nce ons ted may ist of ral rts , and may be ied in rms of ers , as bed in ail in ion 123
ese nce ons ide ity lar to hat of the ral ork els .
the are nts ull ian nce for ese cal els ing rix ons and kov ain ing ods , as bed in ons 123 and 123
in ons 123 and 123 , i ate the use of the are on a ree - way ion lem , ing a del hat can ify ich of the uts are ant to ing the ass , and on a ion lem ith i ude by ing ome eas for ure rch .
rst , ver , i ill
low the nks rom my ome age , at ttp : / / www . cs . nto . ca / ord / .
the ion bed
ere is hat of 123 - 123 - 123
uce in ore ail the dea of ian ing ing ian ses .
123 ion and ion ing ian ses
, x ( i )
ume we ave ved ata for n ses , ( x ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) , ( x ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) , .
, ( x ( n ) , t ( n ) ) , in ich x ( i ) = x ( i ) is the tor of p uts ( ors ) for ase i and t ( i ) is the ted get ( nse ) .
our ary ose is to ict the get , t ( 123 ) , for a new ase ere we ave ved nly the uts , x ( 123 ) .
( we ght mes be ted in ion as ell , but ere is no int in ing a del hat has led to ure the ies hat uld ort ood ive nce . ) for a ion lem , the ets ill be eal - ed; for a ion lem , the ets ill be rom ome ite set of ass els , ich we ill ake to be ( 123 , .
, k 123 ) .
it ill mes be ent to ent the ons of the ets , t ( i ) , in rms of ved ent ues , y ( i ) , ted ith ach ase .
ian ion and ion els are lly ted in rms of a ior ion for a set of own del ers , rom ich a ior ion for the ers is ved , and lly ted tly .
if our cus is on ion for a ure ase , ver , the nal ult is a ive ion for a new get lue , t ( 123 ) , hat is ned by ing ver the own ers .
his ive ion can ore be sed tly in rms of the uts for the new ase , x ( 123 ) , and the uts and ets for the n ved ses , out any ion of the del ers .
hat is ore , her han ing our ior dge in rms of a ior for the ers , we can ead ate ver the ers to ain a ior ion for the ets in any set of ses .
a ive ion for an own get can hen be ned by ing on the own ets .
ese ons are ost ily ied out if all the ons are ian .
ely , ian ses are ble ugh to ent a ide ety of ing ion els , any of ich uld ave an ite ber of ers if ted in ore nal
ore ing uch ric els , ver , it may elp to see how the eme
rks for a ple ear ion del , ich can be ten as
t ( i ) = +
u u + ( i )
ere ( i ) is the ian ise for ase i , med to be ent rom ase to ase , and to ave ean ero and nce 123 but hat and the u are own .
for the ent , we ill ume hat 123
let us ive and the u ent ian ors ith ans of ero and ces u .
for any set of ses ith xed uts , x ( 123 ) , x ( 123 ) , .
. , his ior ion for ers ies a ior ion for the ted get ues , t ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) , .
. , ich
ill be ate ian , ith ean ero , and ith ces ven by
vht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = e " +
u u + ( i ) ! +
u + 123
u u + j ! #
ere ij is one if i = j and ero ise .
his ean and nce ion are ent to ene a ian ess ing a ion ver ble ips een the uts and the get .
( tly ing , one ght ish to nne the erm ian ess to ons ver ons rom the uts to the get .
the hip ove is not nal , nce ( due to ise ) t ( i ) may ier rom t ( j ) ven if x ( i ) is cal to x ( j ) .
the ser age is ent ere , ver . )
ose now hat we now the uts , x ( 123 ) , .
, x ( n ) , for n ved ses , as ell as x ( 123 ) , the uts in a ase for ich we ish to ict the get .
we can use ion ( 123 ) to ute the 123 by 123 nce rix of the ted ets , t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) , t ( 123 ) .
her ith the ion hat the ans are ero , ese ces ene a ian int ion for the ets in the ved and ved ses .
we can ion on the own ets to ain the ive ion for t ( 123 ) ven t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) .
ell - own lts ( eg , von ses 123 , ion 123 ) how hat his ive ion is ian , ith ean and nce ven by
t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = kt 123 t t ( 123 ) , .
, t ( n ) i = v kt 123 k
ere c is the n by n nce rix for the ets in the ved ses ( rom qua - ion ( 123 ) ) , t = ( t ( 123 ) t ( n ) ) t is the tor of own get ues in ese ses , k is the tor of ces een t ( 123 ) and the n own ets , and v is the ior nce of t ( 123 ) ( ie , cov ( t ( 123 ) , t ( 123 ) ) rom ion ( 123 ) ) .
in ice , our ior dge ill lly not be ent to x ate ues for the ers hat ene the nce ( , , and the u for the ple del of ion ( 123 ) ) .
we ill ore ive ior ons to the ers , and ase ons on a ple of ues rom eir ior ion .
ing rom the ior ion res ion of the log ood sed on the n ved ses , ich is
log det c
tt 123 t
the ves of l can lso be ted , and sed hen ing , as bed in sec - ons 123 and 123
his ure is ily ive for the ple ion del ust sed , ich is ter led by ore ard nal res .
ver , the ian
ess ure can dle ore ing els by ply ing a ent nce ion han hat of ion ( 123 ) .
for ple , a ion del sed on ary oth ons can be ned ing the nce ion
vht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 123 exp
u ) 123 ! + 123
ere , and the u are ers , ich uld lly be ven ome ior ibu - ion her han ing xed .
her ies for the nce ion are sed in
ion els ith non - ian ise and els for ion ems , ere the ets are rom the set ( 123 , .
, k 123 ) , can be ned in rms of a ian ess del for ent ues ted ith ach ase .
ese ent ues are sed to ene a ion for the get in a ase .
for ple , a tic del for ary ets can be ned in rms of ent ues
y ( i ) by ing the ion for the get in ase i be ven by
the ent ues are ven ome ian ess ior , uch as
p ( t ( i ) = 123 ) = 123 + exp ( cid : 123 ) y ( i ) ( cid : 123 ) 123
vhy ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 123 exp
his nce ion ves a del in ich the ity of the get ing 123 ies hly as a ion of the uts .
hen ere are ree or ore ses , an ous del can be ned ing k ent
k 123 , ich ene ass ies as ows :
ues for ach ase , y ( i )
, y ( i )
p ( t ( i ) = k ) = exp ( cid : 123 ) y ( i )
the k ent ues can be ven ent ian ess ors .
( his ion is ant , but ing the ncy by ing one of ese ent ues to ays be ero uld uce an ary try nto the ior . )
for nal ons , the nce ion of ion ( 123 ) ust lly be mod -
ied by the ion of at ast a all unt of ter , as ows :
vhy ( i ) , y ( j ) i = 123 exp
u ) 123 ! + ijj 123
ere , j ves the unt of ter , ich is lar to the ise in a ion del .
ing a all unt of ter ( eg , j = 123 ) kes the rix ons ter
ned , and ves the ncy of ing , ile ing nly a all ect on
the ect of a bit del can be ced by ing a ger unt of ter .
a bit del for ary ets uld be ned tly in rms of ent ues , z ( i ) , ing a nce ion out ter , as ows :
p ( t ( i ) = 123 ) = ( cid : 123 ) z ( i ) ( cid : 123 )
ere is the ard ian ive ion ion .
his ion of the bit del can be ked ing ent ues , y ( i ) , ose nce ion des a ter erm ( as in ion ( 123 ) ) .
hen j = 123 , the y ( i ) can be ded as ums of ter - ree ent les , z ( i ) , and ent ter of nce one .
a bit del can hen be
p ( t ( i ) = 123 | y ( i ) ) = ( cid : 123 ) y ( i ) ( cid : 123 )
ere ( y ) = ( 123 if y < 23; 123 if y >= 123 ) .
ing ver the ter in y ( i ) ves the ect of ion ( 123 ) .
lly , ing up the ude of oth the ter and non - ter rts of the nce ( eg , so hat j = 123 ) ill ave the ect of ion ( 123 ) ged , at ich int the old ion can be ced by the tic ion of ion ( 123 ) , nce the ude of y ( i ) ill lly be rge ugh hat the lue of the tic ion ill be ose to ero or one . 123
if the nce ion sed ows the ent ues to be any ion of the uts ( lus ter ) , the ame ass ies ill be ble ing her a tic or a bit del .
the two rts of els uld ier nly in the act ior ver ass oba - ity ons hat hey ody .
it is not yet ear ich of the two els ill be ter in cal ons .
it is lso ble to ake the unt of ter be a ter , ing the ata to ine ich of the two els is ore ate , or to ect an ate del .
ent ues can lso be sed to ene ion els ith non - ian ise , ith the ent lue ing the ise - ree lue of the ion ion .
( in ice , it is lly ary to ude a all unt of ter in the nce ion for the ent ues , ich has the ect of ing ome mum unt of ian ise . ) a t ion for the ise is rly ent , nce it can be sed in rms of a ian ise del in ich the ise ces for the ses are tly awn rom an rse mma ion .
in the ion of his del , ese ase - by - ase ise ces are tly ted , and led .
the ent ues are ded to ple for the ise ces , but can be ded nce sed for his ose .
3it uld be ble for the are to low the ion of ing the or ons ead of the tic , eby ing a bit del to be ted tly , but his is not one at the ent .
it ght lso be ble to low the tic to be ced by her ion hat ces the act tic del hen ome ite unt of ter is sed , but his has not een ted in ail her .
123 nce ons and eir ers
a ide ety of nce ons can be sed in the ian ess ork , sub - ect to the ent hat a lid nce ion ust ult in a ive ite nce rix for the ets in a set of any ber of ses , in ich the uts ake on any ble ues .
in a ian del , the nce ion ill lly end on ous ers , ich are ves ven ior ons .
uch per - ers can rol the unt of ise in a ion del , the ale of ion in the ion ion , the ree to ich ous put les are ant , and the des of ent ive nts of a del .
the ior ion of ese ers ill be ted on ues hat are ate for the ata hat was
ing the set of lid nce ons is not ial , as een by the ten - ive ons in the ook by lom ( 123 ) .
one way to uct a ety of ari - nce ons is by ing and ing her her nce ons , nce the ent - by - ent sum or uct of any two ric , ive ite ces is lso ric and ive ite ( orn and son 123 , 123 . 123 and 123 . 123 ) .
ums of nce ons are ful in ing els ith an ive ure , nce the nce ion for a sum of ent ian ses is ply the sum of eir ate nce ons .
cts of nce ons are ful in ing a nce ion for ses ith nal uts in rms of nce ons for gle uts .
the ent are rts nce ons hat are the sum of one or ore rms
of the ing pes :
123 ) a ant art , ich is the ame for any air of ses , ess of the uts in ose ses .
his dds a ant ent to the ion ion ( or to the ent ues for a ion del ) , ith the ior for the lue of his ant ent ing the nce ven by his ant erm in the nce ion .
123 ) a ear art , ich for the nce een ses i and j has the orm
his ces a ear ion of the uts , as een in ion 123 , or dds a ear ent to the ion , if ere are her rms in the nce as ell .
123 ) a ter art , ich is ero for ent ses , and a ant for the nce of a ase ith elf .
ter is sed to ove the ing of the rix ons , or to uce the ect of a bit ion del .
the ise in a ion del is lar , but is ted ely in his ion ( ter cts the ent ues , and ugh hem the ts; ise cts nly the ets ) .
123 ) any ber of ial rts , ach of ich , for the nce een ses i
and j , has the orm
if ere are ral ial rts , hey may use ent ues of r , , and the u .
for the nce ion to be ive ite , r ust be in the nge 123 to 123
the ult lue of r = 123 ces a ion ( or ive ent of a ion ) hat is ely ble , but not ned to be of any lar orm .
the ers of ese rms in the nce ion may be xed , or hey may be ted as ers , ith ven ior ons , ept hat the wer , r , for an ial art ust tly be xed .
ome of the ble ons ver ons hat can be ned ing nce ons of his orm are ted in ure 123
( ese are ons of a gle put , so the dex u is ped ) .
the top eft and top ght ach how ons awn mly rom a ian ess ith a nce ion ing of a gle ial art .
the nce ver ich the ion ies by an unt ble to its ull nge , ven by 123 / , is ler for the top - ght han the top - eft .
the tom eft ows ons ted ing a nce ion hat is the sum of ant , ear , and ial rts .
the ude of the ial art , ven by , is her all , so the ons art nly tly rom ght nes .
the tom ght ows ons awn rom a ior ose nce ion is the sum of two ial rts , hat uce ion at ent les , and ith ent des .
the are can uce uch ots of mly awn ons in one and two ons , ing the sky ion of the nce rix for the ets ver a rid of put nts , as bed in ion 123
for ems ith ore han one put ble , the u and u ers rol the ree to ich ach put is ant to ing the get .
if u is ose to ero , put u ill ave tle ect on the ree of nce een ses ( or at ast , tle ect on the ion of the nce due to the ial art in ich the u ter urs ) .
two ses uld ore ave igh nce ven if hey ave tly ent ues for put u ie , put u is ely red .
in cal ons , the ant art and ter art ( if any ) of the nce uld be ven xed ues , but the ble ior ion uld not be ent to x the her ers , ich ify the des of the ear and ial rts , and the les of ion and ces of the ous uts .
the ard ion of the ise for a ion del uld lso lly be own .
ese ers uld ore lly be ven rly gue ior ons .
ese ons uld be per , ver , as ing an per ior ill ten uce an per ior .
the ors for ers ted by the are all ake the ame orm .
if is a ter ( all of ich ake on nly ive ues ) , the lue of = 123 can be ven a mma ior ith ity
vht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = exp ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
vht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = exp ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
vht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = 123 + x ( i ) x ( j )
+ 123 exp ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
vht ( i ) , t ( j ) i = exp ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) + 123 exp ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) x ( i ) x ( j ) ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 )
ure 123 : ons awn rom ian ses ith ous nce ons .
ach of the phs ows two ons hat ere tly awn rom the ian ess ith ean ero and ith the nce ion ven low the aph .
ere , is a ive ape ter , and is the ean of .
the are pts ior ons in rms of and 123 ( ose its ond to ose of the nal ter , ) .
rge ues of uce ors for ted ear 123 , eas all ues of uce gue ors . 123
gle ers , uch as in an ial art , or the ise ard ion for a ple ion del , may her be ven a ior as bed ove , or be ven a xed lue ( ent to ing = ) .
ers hat ome in ups , uch as the u in an ial art , or the u in a ear art , can be ven cal ors , sed in rms of a her - vel ter ted ith the oup , ich has no ect ect on the nce ion , but ich nes the ean for the wer - vel ers .
for ple , the u ers for an ial art ght be ied by a her - vel ter , .
at the top vel , = 123 ven a mma ior of the orm
for a ven lue of , the u ers ted ith lar uts are nde - ent , ith u = 123
u ing a mma ior ith ean , as ows :
p ( u | ) =
ote hat the ape ers for the two els , 123 and 123 , can be ent ( 123 is the ame for all uts , u , ver ) .
the top vel of the chy can be ted ( ely , 123 = ) , in ich ase the u are ent .
the wer vel of the chy can lso be ted ( ely , 123 = ) , in ich ase the u are all ual to .
lly oth els can be ted ( 123 = 123 = ) , in ich ase the u ave xed ues .
ese cal ors can lso ink her the u ers in the ear art of the nce , as ell as the ise ard ons for a ion del ith ore han one get .
ver , at ent ere is no way of ing ers of ent pes , nor of ing ers ing to ent rts of the nce ion ( eg , the u for ent ial rts ) .
hen ere is ore han one get or ent lue for ach ase , the ame ers are tly sed for the ent ian ses hat del the hip of ach lue to the uts .
the nly ion to his is hat ent ise ard ons are ble for ion els ith ore han one get .
in ast to the ate ons for ent nce ons , the are tly mes hat the ean ion for the ian ess is ays ero .
his is ate for ems ere ior dge is gue .
ote hat ing a ero ean
ere is an ary ect to his orm of ior ion , nce ols not nly how use the ior is , but lso its ape .
his uld be xed by ing the mma ior be for = r , ith r ing any ied wer .
the ent eme is ous to the ors sed for ral ork els , ere r = 123 lts in a ate ior ith ome nal ges .
ian ess oes not ean hat we ect the ual ion ion to ake on ive and ive ues ver ual rts of its nge .
if the nce ion has a rge ant erm , we uld not be sed if the ual ion ere ays ive , or ays ive ( at ast ver the nge of est ) .
ing a ean ion of ero ply cts our ack of ior dge as to hat the ign ill urn out to be .
in ice , it ill lly be ble to orm the ets so hat eir ean is ely ero , in der to ate any eed for a rge ant erm in the nce .
ing a rge ant erm is ble use it ses the und - o ror in the rix
123 rix ons
ces ing a ian ess del ven lar ues for its ram - ers can be med ing ons ing the nce rix for the ets or ent ues ted ith the ved ses .
if ate ter ues are own a ori , ese rix ons are all hat are ded to ake ons for the ets in new ses .
in the ore mon ion ere the ers are own , uch rix ons are sed to ort the kov ain ing ods bed in ion 123 , and hen to ake ons ing the ing ple of ter ues ( and ent ues , if red ) .
the ral ect in ese ons is the n by n nce rix of the ent ues ing the ved ses , or of the get ues ves , for a ion del .
his nce rix , ich we ill ote by c , nds on the ved uts for ese ses , and on the lar ues of the ers , oth of ich are red xed ere .
the lty of ons ing c is ned by its ion ber the tio of its est lue to its est lue .
ion ber is rge , und - o ror in the rix ons may use hem to ail or to be hly ate .
his ial lem can be led by ing nce ons hat ude ter rms ( see ion 123 ) , nce the ter tes ely to ery lue of the rix , ing the ion ber .
hen c is the nce rix for the ets in a ion del , the ise nce has an ent ect .
for ost ems , it ars hat the ion of a all unt of ter to the nce ill not sly ect the cal ies of the del , and may ven be ble .
gly , the are oes not mpt to dle nce ces hat are ery
the ent ion is sed on ing the sky ion of c hat is , the wer - lar rix , l , for ich c = llt .
the sky ion can be und by a ple thm ( see , for ple , ted 123 , ion 123 ) , ich uns in ime nal to 123
nce the sky ion has een und , the ant of c can ily be ted as the are of the uct of the nal nts of l .
( in ice , the log of the ant is und rom the sum of the ogs of the nal
nts . ) her use of the sky ion is in ing ent or get ues rom the ior .
ard ods can be sed to mly ate a tor , n , sed of n ent ian tes ith ean ero and nce one .
one can hen ute the tor ln , ich ill ave ean ero and nce rix llt = c .
his ure was sed to uce the ots in ure 123 , ing the nce rix for the ets ver a rid of put ues , ith the ion of an ble unt of ter .
the ary use of the sky ion is in ing the rse of c , ich ses oth in the ive ion for a new ase ( ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ) and in the log ood ( ion ( 123 ) ) .
ese ons uld be med out tly ing the rse of c , nce 123 b can be und ing the sky ion by rst ing lv = b for v ing ard ion , and hen ing lt u = v for u ing ard ion .
ver , it is ore ent to tly ute the rse , nce it ill ten be ded way in der to ute ves of the log ood .
ion of 123 is one by ing the ure ust bed to ute 123 b for the n ors b hat are all ero ept for one ent ith the lue one .
his kes ime nal to 123
nce 123 has een ted , we can are to ake ons rom a ion del by ing b = 123 t , ere t is the tor of ets in the ing ses .
the ean of the ive ion for the get in a est ase can hen be und in ime nal to n .
we rst ute the tor , k , of ces een the ets in the est ase and in the n ing ses .
we hen ute the ive ean of ion ( 123 ) as kt b .
his is the hod sed in the ent ion .
an ive is to lve lu = k for u and to lve lv = t for v , and hen ute the ive ean as ut v .
his is ess ent , ing ime nal to 123 for ach est ase , but bbs and kay ( 23a ) ort hat it is ore ate hen c is rly ned .
if we ire the ive nce as ell as the ean , we ust ute kt 123 k , for use in ion ( 123 ) , ich ill ake ime nal to 123
ons for ion els lve lar ons , but sed on the ent lue ted ith a est ase .
a tor of ent ues , y , ted ith the ing ses ust be ble .
the tor of ces , k , een ese ent ues and the ent lue in a est ase can be ted , and a ive ean and nce for the ent lue in the est ase can hen be und as ove .
a ple of ues rom his ian ive ion can ily be ned , rom ich nte rlo tes for the ass ies in the est ase can be ted by ply ing the ies hat are ned by ing the ent ues in his ple nto ion ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) .
one may lso ish to ple rom the int ior ion of the ets or la - ent ues in a set of ses , her as art of ome her ion , or in der to lot ion ons awn rom the ior ion .
nal on ues for the ers , for the ent les ted ith ing ses ( for a ion del ) , and for the ase - by - ase ise ces ( for a ion del ith t - ted ise ) , ese ons ill be ian , ith ans and ces ven by ral -
ons of ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) .
in a ion del , for ple , if y is the tor of ent ues in a set of m est ses , and t is the tor of get ues in n ing ses ,
e ( y | t ) = kt 123 t
cov ( y | t ) = w kt 123 k
ere c is the n by n nce rix for the ets in ing ses , w is the m by m nce rix for ent ues in the est ses , and k is the n by m rix of ces een ets in ing ses and ent ues in est ses .
nce ese ans and ces ave een ted , a lue for y can be ted ing the sky ion of its nce rix , as bed ove in ard to ing rom the ior .
the kov ain ods sed to ple rom the ior ion of the rpa - ers in a ion del ire ion of the log ood , l , of ion ( 123 ) .
as een ove , his is ily one ing the sky ion of c .
for ome of the kov ain ing ods , the ves of l ith ect to the ous hy - ers are lso red .
the ive of the log ood ith ect to a ter can be ten as ows ( dia and all 123 ) :
tt 123 c
the ace of the uct in the rst erm can be ted in ime nal to 123 , ing hat 123 has ady een ted .
the ond erm can lso be ted in ime nal to 123 , by rst ing b = 123 t ( ich is bly ded way , to ute l elf ) , ing his on the eft by the rix of ves , and lly ing the ult by bt .
art rom the ion of b , his ure ust be ted for ach ter , and for ach ion get , if ere is ore han one .
the kov ain ods sed for ion els ire a lar ion ,
but ith the tor of ets , t , ced by the tor of ent ent ues , y .
for rge ata ets , the ime red for ese ons is ted by hat red to orm the sky ion of c , and to hen ute 123 , for ich the ber of ons red ows in ion to 123
eed , on nes ith ory hes , the ime red for ese ons may row at a ate ven ter han 123 , nce ger ces ill not t in the ast che .
the are pts to uce uch che cts by ver ble ing ces ong ows her han own mns , but for rge ces the own on our sgi ine can ill be ial .
for all ata ets ( eg , 123 ses ) , the ime red to ute the ves of the log ood ith ect to the ers can ate , ven ugh his ime ows nly in ion to 123
his may cur , for ple , hen ere are any ers ing the nce of any put les , so hat ing the
rix of ves of the ces kes a lot of ime .
ese ons can be ped up if the ual ues for the ial rts of the ces ave een ved ( as ese ear in the ons for the ves ) .
the are oes his hen n is all ugh hat the ory red to do so is not too ge; hen n is ger , the her ons ate way .
123 kov ain ing
the nce ons for ost ian ess els ill ain own per - ers , ich ust be ted ver in a lly ian ent .
the ber of ers ill ary rom und ree or our for a ery ple ion del up to ral zen or ore for a del ith any uts , ose ces are lly led ing ers uch as the u of ion ( 123 ) .
kov ain nte rlo ods ( see ( eal 123 ) for a iew ) eem to be the nly ble ach to per - ing ese ons , at ast for the ore lex els .
for ion els , ent ues for ach ing ase ust lso be ted ver , and for ion els in ich the ise has a t ion , we ust ate ver the ase - by - ase ise ari - ces .
ese ent ues and ces can be ded in the ate of the kov ain and led ong ith the ers .
ing rom the ior ion of the ers is ted by pre - ing hem in mic orm , as his kes the ing ods ent of the ale of the ata .
the ely - sed hod of bbs ing not ily be ied to his lem , nce it ems ult to ple rom the nal ons for one ter ven ues for the ers ( and the ent ues , if any ) .
the lis thm uld be sed ith ome ple sal ion , uch as a ian ith nal nce rix .
the are rts his ion , ong ith a ety of her kov ain ing ods .
ver , ple ods uch as his ore the ion of igh ity by an ent dom alk .
it is bly ter for ost els to use a hod hat can ess ese dom lks ( eal 123 , 123 ) .
the ost ate way to ess dom lks for his lem ems to be to use the rid nte rlo hod of ane , edy , ton , and eth ( 123 ) , or the ant of his hod due to itz ( 123 ) .
i ave yed the rid nte rlo hod to do ian nce for ral ork els ( eal 123 ) , and sen ( 123 ) has sed it for ian ess ion .
ral nts of the rid nte rlo hod are ted by the kov ain les hat i use for oth the ral ork and the ian ess are .
i ill ive nly a ief , mal ion of the hod ere .
ore ils can be und ere ( eal 123 , 23; sen 123 ) .
the rid nte rlo hod ses dom lks by ing tum les hat are ted ith the ion les hat are the cus of est .
for the ian ess ion , the ion les are the ers ing the nce ion .
the ate of the ion ves in the ame way as the ion
and tum of a cal cle ing ugh a ion of ble ial rgy .
the tum ses the cle to nue in a ent ion til uch ime as a ion of igh rgy ( low ity ) is red .
his ion ust be zed a bit in der to ure hat the ect ion is led rom , but not so uch hat ble dom alk our lts .
in ice , the ial ons hat ibe how the ion and tum nge ugh ime are zed , and the ias due to ion ror is ted by ing or ing the new ate in the lis yle .
the rog ion is lly sed .
in der to orm a rog ate , the ves of the log of the ior ity ith ect to the ers ust be ted .
to ide her to ept an ate ( or nce of tes ) , the log of the ior ity ust be und ( ept for its ing ant ) .
the log ior ity is ted rom the log of the ior ies for the ers , ich ave the ily ted mma orm , and the log ood , rom ion ( 123 ) .
the ves are und by ing the ive of the log ior , ich is ily ted , to the ive of the log ood , ich is ted ing ion ( 123 ) .
in the nal rid nte rlo hod of ane , et al .
( 123 ) , ral rog tes are one , ter ich a ion her to ept the ult is ade .
the tum is lso zed at his ime .
a ion ing ows of tes ( eal 123 ) can be sed to ase the nce ity .
in the ion due to itz ( 123 ) , an nce ion is ade ter ach rog ate , ter ich the tum is nly lly zed .
i fer to his as rid nte rlo ith nce of the tum .
for rid nte rlo to ork ell , ate zes for the rog tes ust be ted if too rge a ize is sed , the nce ate ill be ery low , but if the ize is too all , ess ill be sly low .
ent zes can be sed for ent rs; his is ent to ing the ers ( in eir mic orm ) ing ent ale ors .
the are des a tic ure hat lly cts a ize for ach ter .
ese ons are sed on tes of the ond ves of the log ior ity ith ect to the ers , ich ate how rge a nge can be ade to a ter out ing nto a ion of low ity .
ese lly ted zes can be ( and lly are ) lly ted by ing hem all by ome tor , ich is sen on the sis of ary uns .
gly , the eal ole of the ics is to set the ive zes for ent ers .
the ics sed at ent are her ple .
the zes for igh - vel rpa - ers are led own by the are oot of the ber of low - vel ers hat hey rol .
his is in ord ith how one uld ect the dth of eir ior ion to ale .
rly , the ize for the ise nce in a ion del is led own by the are oot of the ber of ing ses .
ver , the zes for the her ers ( eg , the and u ers in an ial art of the nce ) are not led on the sis of the ber of ing ses .
her his is the
ght ing to do nds on her the ior ion for ese ers mes ore tly ted as the ber of ing ses ses .
i ure hat ese ior ons are lly ore ted han the ior , but hat hey do not ome ore and ore ted as the ber of ing ses ses , ept aps for the u ers in an ial art ith r < 123 , for ich the ons ced are tal .
dia and all ( 123 ) der his lem in a ial ics ext , der the ion hat the nge of the put les in - ses ith the ber of ing ses , ich i ume is not the cal ion for ion and ion ems .
if nal ing ses ead ide ser ing hin a xed ion , it ems hat hey can ide nly a ted unt of ion out the ers , ess the ion led has a tal ure , in ich ion is ted at all les .
for a ion del , ese rid nte rlo tes of the ers use the ood sed on the ent ent ues ted ith ing ses , not on the ets tly .
ese ter tes ust be ved ith tes of the ent ues ves , for ich bbs ing is tly sed .
new ent ues are sen for ach ase in a ial can . 123 ese ues are awn rom the nal ion for uch a ent lue ven the ved get for hat ing ase , and ven the ent ues of the ers and all the her ent ues .
the ity for his nal ion is nal to the uct of the ood ven the get , rom ion ( 123 ) or ( 123 ) , and the ian nal ity ven the her ent ues .
the nal ity for y ( i ) ven the her ent ues , all of ich are ted in y , is nal to exp ( 123 123 yt 23y ) , and can be und in ime nal to n if 123 has ady een ted .
the nal nal ity is log - ave , and nce can tly be led rom ing the ive ion hod of lks and ild ( 123 ) .
nce 123 has een ted , ing ime nal to 123 , a ete bbs ing can kes ime nal nly to 123
it ore kes nse to orm ite a few bbs ing ans een ach ate of the ers , as his dds tle to the ime nts , and bly kes the kov ain mix ter .
the are lso rts ion els ith t - ted ise , sed as aus - ian ise ith ase - by - ase ces awn rom an rse mma ion .
the kov ain ust hen ple how for the ase - by - ase ise ces , ich are ded to ute the ces of the ets .
in one ach , ase - by - ase ent ues are ned , and ted ing bbs ing , in a ner ous to hat sed for ion els .
bbs ing can hen ily be one for the ase - by - ase ise ces as ell , sed nly on the ers ing the ise vel , the ent ues , and the ets .
the are lso rts a ond ach , ver , in ich ent ues are not ept und tly .
ead , ent ues are ily
hen ere are ral ent ues for ach ase , it kes no nce her the ner oop of the
can is ver ses or ver the ral ues for one ase .
ure 123 : the 123 ing ses sed for the ree - way ion lem .
ach ase is ted ac - ing to its ues for 123 and 123 , ith the lot bol ing the ass , as ows :
ass 123 = led are ass 123 = lus ign ass 123 = pen gle
ted ust ore the ise ces are ted , ing ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , and hen ded ter ing sed to ate new ues for the ise ces .
123 ple : a ree - way ion lem
123 , x ( i )
123 , x ( i )
123 , and x ( i )
to ate the use of the are for ion , i ied it to a tic ree - way ion lem .
irs of ata ems , ( x ( i ) , t ( i ) ) ere ted by rst mly ing ies x ( i ) tly rom the orm ion ver the val ( 123 , 123 ) .
the ass of the tem , t ( i ) , ded as 123 , 123 , or 123 , was hen ted as ows : if the two - nal ean nce of ( x ( i ) 123 ) rom the int ( 123 , 123 ) was ess han 123 , the ass was set to 23; ise , if 123 x ( i ) 123 was ess han 123 , the ass was set to 23; and if her of ese ons eld , the ass was set to 123
ote hat 123 , x ( i ) 123 and x ( i ) 123 , ble for ion of the get ere the ues of x ( i ) 123 lus ent ian ise of ard ion 123 .
i ted 123 ses in his way , of ich 123 ere sed for ing the del , and 123 for ing the ing ive nce .
the 123 ing ase are own in ure 123
123 ave no ect on the ass .
the uts , x ( i )
123 , x ( i ) 123 + 123 x ( i )
123 , x ( i ) 123 , and x ( i )
123 , and x ( i )
123 , x ( i )
123 , x ( i )
his ata was led ing a ian ess for the ent ues , y ( i ) , ose co - nce ion ted of ree rms a ant art ( xed at 123 ) , an ial art in ich the ude , , and the les for the our uts , u , ere ble per - ers , and a ter art , xed at j = 123
the rly rge unt of ter ces an ect ose to a bit del , as sed in ion 123
nce ach of the u can ary ely ( der the rol of a mon her - vel ter ) , the del is ca -
ble of ing hat ome of the uts are in act ant to the ask of ing the get .
we ope hat the ior ion of u for ese ant uts ill be ted ear ero , so hat hey ill not ade ive nce .
the ent orm of rid nte rlo was sed in the ing , as his ows the ent ues to be led een ach rog ate of the ers .
a rly low nce was sed for the rst few rog tes , in der to low rgy to be ted dly at rst ( ugh ent of the tum , and ent ion of tic rgy ) .
a ger nce was sed ter , in der to ess dom alk our .
ore ery ate of the ers , the ent ues ted ith ing ses ere ted ing 123 bbs ing ans .
a nce of ve of ese ned bbs ing and rog tes ere one in ach ing ion , ter ich the ers and ent ues ere ved for ble ter use .
ing was ued for 123 uch ons ( 123 rog tes ) , ich ook out 123 tes on our sgi ine .
ete ils ing the del and the ing ure sed may be und in
the are ion , ere his lem is lso sed as an ple .
the nce of the kov ain ion can be sed by ing how the ues of the ers nge ver the rse of the ion .
ure 123 ows the ess of the u ers in the ial art of the nce .
as ped , we see hat by out ion 123 , an ent ium has een hed in ich the ers 123 and 123 , ted ith the ant uts , ave ues hat are uch ler han ose for 123 and 123 , ich are ted ith the uts hat ide ion out the get ass .
the kov ain ion lso tes the ree ent ues ted ith ach ing ase , ich ene the ass ies by ion ( 123 ) .
ese ent ues for a lar ing ase are ted ver the rse of the ion in ure 123
the bbs ing ans ear to be ive in ing ese ues out eir ium ion rly dly .
to ake ons for est ses , we can age her the ive ies sed on ons ter ium was tly hed .
to uce ion ime , nly ery fth ion was sed , ing at ion 123 ( for a tal of ten ons ) .
for ach uch ion , the nce rix for the ent ues in ing ses was ted , ter ich the ive ean and nce for the ent ues in ach of the 123 est ses was und , ing the ent ues for ing ses ved for hat ion .
a ple of 123 nts rom his ive ion was sed to uce a nte rlo ate of the ive ies for ach of the ree ses .
the nal ive ies ere und by ing the ons und in his way for ach of the ons sed .
the ess for the ass in a est ase was the one ith the est ive
ure 123 : ess of the our nce ers ing the rse of the kov ain ion .
the ues are ted on a log ale , ith 123 = lid , 123 = ong ash , 123 = ort ash , and 123 = ted .
ure 123 : the ent ues ted ith one ing ase , for ich 123 = 123 , 123 = 123 , and t = 123 , ver the rse of the kov ain ion .
the ree ent ues are own as ass 123 = lid , ass 123 = hed , and ass 123 = ted .
his ure ook out 123 tes on our sgi ine .
the ion ror ate on the 123 est ses was 23% .
his nce is ose to hat of an ous ral ork del .
a per son of ive nce ith hat of her ssi - ion ods is ond the ope of his per .
( sen ( 123 ) has one ive ons of ian ess els ith her ods for ion ems . )
as ted , the ime red for his lem ies bly ith the ber of ing ses .
ith nly 123 ing ses , the ime for the kov ain ion was out 123 tes and the ime red to ake ons for the 123 est ses was ess han a ute .
the ion ror ate ing nly the rst 123 ing ses was 23% .
123 ple : a ion lem ith ers
to ate how the are can be sed to dle ion ems ith ers , i ied a ian ess del ith non - ian ise to a ple tic lem ith a gle put ble .
ses ere ted in ich the put ble , x , was awn rom a ard ian ion , and the ing get lue ame rom a ion ith ean of
123 + 123 x + 123 sin ( 123 x ) + 123 / ( 123 + 123 )
for ost ses , the ion of the get out his ean was ian ith ard ion 123 .
ver , ith ity 123 , a ase was ade an ier , for ich the ard ion was 123 ead .
his ata was led ing a ian ess for the ted lue of the get , ith the ise med to ome rom a t ion ith 123 ees of dom .
his is not rly ose to the ual ise ion , as bed ove , but the avy ils of the t ion may ess low his ata to be led out the ers ing an due ect .
for son , the ata was lso led der the ion of ian ise .
the ata and the ons rom ese two els are own in ure 123
for ese els , the nce ion sed ned a ant art ( xed at 123 ) and an ial art ( ith ble ers ) .
the del ith non - ian ise lso ded a all unt of ter ( j = 123 ) , in der to ove the ing of the rix ons sed to ple for the ent ues .
his ter is ent to a all unt of nal ise in the el; nce the unt of her ise is a ble ter , the nly eal ect is to ain the tal ise to be no ess han the
kov ain ing for the del ith t - ted ise was one by ing hy - rid nte rlo tes for the ers ( ach ing of 123 rog tes ) ith tes for the ase - by - ase ise ces .
ent ues ere ted in der to low bbs ing tes for the ise ces , ing ons ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , but ere ded ter .
the kov ain was ted for 123 uch ons , and
ure 123 : the ion lem ith ers .
the 123 ing ses are own as ots , ith the put on the tal xis , and the get on the cal xis .
the lid ine ves the ean of the ive ion ing a del in ich the ise was med to ome rom a t ion ith 123 ees of dom .
the ted ine ves the ean of the ive ion ing a del in ich the ise was med to be ian .
ons ere hen ade sed on ery fth ion ter ion 123
the ime red for the ion was out six tes on our sgi ine .
her ils of the del and the kov ain hod can be ned rom the
ion of his ple in the are ion .
as can be een in ure 123 , the del ith t - ted ise ces ons hat eem ore ble han ose ced by the del ith ian ise , sed ust on ing at the lot of the ata .
the ons ing t - ted ise are lso ser to the rue ion .
the are bed in his per nds the ope of ian ess els to ion ems and to ion ems ith non - ian ise , by ing a kov ain nte rlo hod in ich ent ues for ach ase are ted .
els can be sed on a ety of nce ons , ich can be ned in rms of ers ith cal ors .
the ion lso ows a ide ety of kov ain ing ods to be sed .
ith ese ies , the ess of ian ess els for a ety of ems can be red .
the les in his per how hat ian ess els can be lly ied to ion ems of ate ize , and to ion ems
ith non - ian se; her les of ion and ion els are ded in the are ion .
one jor cus for ure ork is to ore the ses of ate nce ons in eal ems .
the rly ple del of ion 123 lus - tes how the ers ing the nce ion can ely ine how ant the ous uts are for ing the get .
the nge of nce ons ted its cal els hat are ore ate han his .
for ple , by ing ral ial rts in the nce ion , ach ith a ate set of nce ers , it is ble to ene a ior ion hat uts ble ior ght on els hat are of a rly ive orm , in ich the ion is sed nto the sum of ral ons , ach of ich nds on nly a all set of the uts .
uch a del can lly ine an ate ive ion , if an ive del is in act ate .
his ors a lar dea for ral ork els ( eal 123 , ion 123 ) .
the ion bed ere is her ard .
ost ons are per - med in the est way hat ves ble lts .
a ber of ons can be ted .
ter nce uld bly be ned by ing the ent les ing rid nte rlo her han bbs ing .
ion ime for rix ons ght be ced by ing the ate ent ach of bbs and kay ( 23a ) .
in her ion , one ght ook for ays of ing or ing the eed for ter in the nce ion , nce ugh his ars to lly be an ble ion to the lem of rly ned ces , ere may be ome ces ere it is ble , uch as hen ing a ian ess to del ise - ree ata rom ter nts ( eg , ack , lch , ell , and ynn 123 ) .
ven out her mic nts , ian ess els are now ble for ets of up to out a and ses , ing rly run - of - the - ill ers , ded one is ing to ait up to ral urs for lts on the ger ets .
ing ese els is ore a ble ion for any ion and ion ems .
ite the rly ble 123 wth in ory nts and 123 wth in ion ime of the ent ian ess hms , nts in ter ogy ver the ext few ars ill ely low ese els to be ied to ost ems red in ice .
use of the ase ith ich ble cal els can be ned ing ian ses , i eve hat hey ill ove to be ong the ost ful ues for ric ion and ion .
i ank arl sen for any ful ons , and for the ity to arn rom the ion of ian ess ion hat he sed for his sis .
i lso ank vid kay and ris ams for eir nts on the ipt .
his rch was ted by the ral ces and ing rch cil of ada .
