ABSTRACTHuman perception and memory are often ex-
plained as optimal statistical inferences that are informed
by accurate prior probabilities. In contrast, cognitive judg-
ments are usually viewed as following error-prone heuris-
tics that are insensitive to priors. We examined the optimality
of human cognition in a more realistic context than typical
laboratory studies, asking people to make predictions
about the duration or extent of everyday phenomena such
as human life spans and the box-ofce take of movies. Our
results suggest that everyday cognitive judgments follow
the same optimal statistical principles as perception and
memory, and reveal a close correspondence between peo-
ples implicit probabilistic models and the statistics of the
world.

If you were assessing the prospects of a 60-year-old man, how
much longer would you expect him to live? If you were an ex-
ecutive evaluating the performance of a movie that had made
$40 million at the box ofce so far, what would you estimate for
its total gross? Everyday life routinely poses such challenges of
prediction, situations in which the true answer cannot be de-
termined on the basis of the limited data available, yet common
sense suggests at least a reasonable guess. Analogous inductive
problemsfor example,
identifying the three-dimensional
structure underlying a two-dimensional image (Freeman, 1994;
Knill & Richards, 1996) or judging when a particular fact is
likely to be needed in the future (Anderson, 1990; Anderson &
Milson, 1989)arise in many domains of human psychology.
Accounts of human perception and memory suggest that these
systems effectively approximate optimal statistical inference,
correctly combining new data with an accurate probabilistic
model of the environment (Anderson, 1990; Anderson & Milson,
1989; Anderson & Schooler, 1991; Freeman, 1994; Geisler,

Address correspondence to Thomas Grifths, Department of Cogni-
tive and Linguistic Sciences, Brown University, Box 1978, Provi-
dence, RI 02912, e-mail: tom_grifths@brown.edu.

Perry, Super, & Gallogly, 2001; Huber, Shiffrin, Lyle, & Ruys,
2001; Knill & Richards, 1996; Kording & Wolpert, 2004;
Shiffrin & Steyvers, 1997; Simoncelli & Olshausen, 2001;
Weiss, Simoncelli, & Adelson, 2002). In contrastperhaps as a
result of the great attention garnered by the work of Kahneman,
Tversky, and their colleagues (e.g., Kahneman, Slovic, &
Tversky, 1982; Tversky & Kahneman, 1974)cognitive judg-
ments under uncertainty are often characterized as the result of
error-prone heuristics that are insensitive to prior probabilities.
This view of cognition, based on laboratory studies, appears
starkly at odds with the near-optimality of other human capac-
ities, and with peoples ability to make smart predictions from
sparse data in the real world.

To evaluate how cognitive judgments compare with optimal
statistical inferences in real-world settings, we asked people to
predict the duration or extent of everyday phenomena such as
human life spans and the gross of movies. We varied the phe-
nomena that were described and the amount of data available,
and we compared the predictions of human participants with
those of an optimal Bayesian model, described in detail in the
appendix. Here, we illustrate the principles behind this Bayes-
ian analysis by taking the example of trying to predict the total
life span of a man we have just met, on the basis of the mans
current age. If ttotal indicates the total amount of time the man
will live and t indicates his current age, the task is to estimate
ttotal from t. The Bayesian predictor computes a probability
distribution over ttotal given t, by applying Bayess rule:

pttotaljt / ptjttotalpttotal

1
The probability assigned to a particular value of ttotal given t is
proportional to the product of two factors: the likelihood p(t|ttotal)
and the prior probability p(ttotal).

The likelihood is the probability of rst encountering a man at
age t given that his total life span is ttotal. Assuming for simplicity
that we are equally likely to meet a man at any point in his life,
this probability is uniform, p(t|ttotal) 5 1/ttotal, for all possible
values of t between 0 and ttotal (and 0 for values outside that
range). This assumption of uniform random sampling is analo-

Volume 17Number 9

Copyright r 2006 Association for Psychological Science

767

Everyday Predictions

gous to the Copernican anthropic principle in Bayesian cos-
mology (Buch, 1994; Caves, 2000; Garrett & Coles, 1993; Gott,
1993, 1994; Ledford, Marriott, & Crowder, 2001) and the ge-
neric-view principle in Bayesian models of visual perception
(Freeman, 1994; Knill & Richards, 1996). The prior probability
p(ttotal) reects our general expectations about the relevant class
of eventsin this case, about how likely it is that a mans life
span will be ttotal. Analysis of actuarial data shows that the
distribution of life spans in our society is (ignoring infant mor-
tality) approximately Gaussiannormally distributedwith a
mean, m, of about 75 years and a standard deviation, s, of about
16 years.

Combining the prior with the likelihood according to Equation
1 yields a probability distribution p(ttotal|t) over all possible total
life spans ttotal for a man encountered at age t. A good guess for
ttotal is the median of this distributionthat is, the point at which
it is equally likely that the true life span is longer or shorter.
Taking the median of p(ttotal|t) denes a Bayesian prediction
function, specifying a predicted value of ttotal for each observed
value of t. Prediction functions for events with Gaussian priors
are nonlinear: For values of t much less than the mean of the
prior, the predicted value of ttotal is approximately the mean;
once t approaches the mean, the predicted value of ttotal in-
creases slowly, converging to t as t increases but always re-
maining slightly higher, as shown in Figure 1. Although its
mathematical form is complex, this prediction function makes
intuitive sense for human life spans: A predicted life span of
about 75 years would be reasonable for a man encountered at age
18, 39, or 51; if we met a man at age 75, we might be inclined to
give him several more years at least; but if we met someone at age
96, we probably would not expect him to live much longer.

This approach to prediction is quite general, applicable to any
problem that requires estimating the upper limit of a duration,
extent, or other numerical quantity given a sample drawn from
that interval (Buch, 1994; Caves, 2000; Garrett & Coles, 1993;
Gott, 1993, 1994; Jaynes, 2003; Jeffreys, 1961; Ledford et al.,
2001; Leslie, 1996; Maddox, 1994; Shepard, 1987; Tenenbaum
& Grifths, 2001). However, different priors will be appropriate
for different kinds of phenomena, and the prediction function
will vary substantially as a result. For example, imagine trying to
predict the total box-ofce gross of a movie given its take so far.
The total gross of movies follows a power-law distribution, with
p(ttotal) / ttotal
g for some g > 0.1 This distribution has a highly
non-Gaussian shape (see Fig. 1), with most movies taking in only
modest amounts, but occasional blockbusters making huge
amounts of money. In the appendix, we show that for power-law
priors, the Bayesian prediction function picks a value for ttotal
that is a multiple of the observed sample t. The exact multiple
depends on the parameter g. For the particular power law that
best ts the actual distribution of movie grosses, an optimal

1When g > 1, a power-law distribution is often referred to in statistics and

economics as a Pareto distribution.

Fig. 1. Bayesian prediction functions and their associated prior distri-
butions. The three columns represent qualitatively different statistical
models appropriate for different kinds of events. The top row of plots
shows three parametric families of prior distributions for the total dura-
tion or extent, ttotal, that could describe events in a particular class. Lines
of different styles represent different parameter values (e.g., different
mean durations) within each family. The bottom row of plots shows the
optimal predictions for ttotal as a function of t, the observed duration or
extent of an event so far, assuming the prior distributions shown in the top
panel. For Gaussian priors (left column), the prediction function always
has a slope less than 1 and an intercept near the mean m: Predictions are
never much smaller than the mean of the prior distribution, nor much
larger than the observed duration. Power-law priors (middle column)
result in linear prediction functions with variable slope and a zero inter-
cept. Erlang priors (right column) yield a linear prediction function that
always has a slope equal to 1 and a nonzero intercept.

Bayesian observer would estimate the total gross to be approx-
imately 50% greater than the current gross: Thus, if we observe a
movie has made $40 million to date, we should guess a total
gross of around $60 million; if we observe a current gross of only
$6 million, we should guess about $9 million for the total.

Although such constant-multiple prediction rules are optimal
for event classes that follow power-law priors, they are clearly
inappropriate for predicting life spans or other kinds of events
with Gaussian priors. For instance, upon meeting a 10-year-old
girl and her 75-year-old grandfather, we would never predict
that the girl will live a total of 15 years (1.5  10) and the
grandfather will live to be 112 (1.5 75). Other classes of priors,
such as the exponential-tailed Erlang distribution, p(ttotal) /
ttotalexp(ttotal/b) for b > 0,2 are also associated with distinctive
optimal prediction functions. For the Erlang distribution, the

2The Erlang distribution is a special case of the gamma distribution. The
k1exp(ttotal/b), where k > 0 and b > 0
gamma distribution is p(ttotal) / ttotal
are real numbers. The Erlang distribution assumes that k is an integer. Following
Shepard (1987), we use a one-parameter Erlang distribution, xing k at 2.

768

Volume 17Number 9

Thomas L. Grifths and Joshua B. Tenenbaum

TABLE 1
Sources of Data for Estimating Prior Distributions

Data set

Source (number of data points)

Movie grosses
Poem lengths
Life spans
Movie run times
U.S. representatives terms
Cake baking times
Pharaohs reigns

http://www.worldwideboxofce.com/ (5,302)
http://www.emule.com/ (1,000)
http://www.demog.berkeley.edu/wilmoth/mortality/states.html (complete life table)
http://www.imdb.com/charts/usboxarchive/ (233 top-10 movies from 1998 through 2003)
http://www.bioguide.congress.gov/ (2,150 members since 1945)
http://www.allrecipes.com/ (619)
http://www.touregypt.com/ (126)

Note. Data were collected from these Web sites between July and December 2003.

best guess of ttotal is simply t plus a constant determined by
the parameter b, as shown in the appendix and illustrated in
Figure 1.

approximately Erlang. The experiment examined how well
peoples predictions corresponded to optimal statistical infer-
ence in these different settings.

Our experiment compared these ideal Bayesian analyses with
the judgments of a large sample of human participants, exam-
ining whether peoples predictions were sensitive to the distri-
butions of different quantities that arise in everyday contexts.
We used publicly available data to identify the true prior dis-
tributions for several classes of events (the sources of these data
are given in Table 1). For example, as shown in Figure 2, human
life spans and the run time of movies are approximately
Gaussian, the gross of movies and the length of poems are ap-
proximately power-law distributed, and the distributions of the
number of years in ofce for members of the U.S. House of
Representatives and of the length of the reigns of pharaohs are

METHOD

Participants and Procedure
Participants were tested in two groups, with each group making
predictions about ve different phenomena. One group of 208
undergraduates made predictions about movie grosses, poem
lengths, life spans, reigns of pharaohs, and lengths of marriages.
A second group of 142 undergraduates made predictions about
movie run times, terms of U.S. representatives, baking times for
cakes, waiting times, and lengths of marriages. The surveys were

Fig. 2. Peoples predictions for various everyday phenomena. The top row of plots shows the empirical distributions of the total duration or extent, ttotal,
for each of these phenomena. The rst two distributions are approximately Gaussian, the third and fourth are approximately power-law, and the fth
and sixth are approximately Erlang. The bottom row shows participants predicted values of ttotal for a single observed sample t of a duration or extent for
each phenomenon. Black dots show the participants median predictions of ttotal. Error bars indicate 68% condence intervals (estimated by a 1,000-
sample bootstrap). Solid lines show the optimal Bayesian predictions based on the empirical prior distributions shown above. Dashed lines show pre-
dictions made by estimating a subjective prior, for the pharaohs and waiting-times stimuli, as explained in the main text. Dotted lines show predictions
based on a xed uninformative prior (Gott, 1993).

Volume 17Number 9

769

Everyday Predictions

included in a booklet that participants completed for a set of
unrelated experiments.

Terms of U.S. representatives: If you heard a member of the House
of Representatives had served for 15 years, what would you predict
his total term in the House would be?

Materials
Each participant made a prediction about one instance from
each of the ve different classes seen by his or her group. Each
prediction was based on one of ve possible values of t, varied
randomly between subjects. These values were $1, $6, $10, $40,
and $100 million for movie grosses; 2, 5, 12, 32, and 67 lines for
poem lengths; 18, 39, 61, 83, and 96 years for life spans; 1, 3, 7,
11, and 23 years for reigns of pharaohs; 1, 3, 7, 11, and 23 years
for lengths of marriages; 30, 60, 80, 95, and 110 min for movie
run times; 1, 3, 7, 15, and 31 years for terms of U.S. repre-
sentatives; 10, 20, 35, 50, and 70 min for baking times for cakes;
and 1, 3, 7, 11, and 23 min for waiting times. In each case,
participants read several sentences establishing context and
then were asked to predict ttotal given t.

The questions were presented in survey format. Each survey

began as follows:

Each of the questions below asks you to predict somethingeither
a duration or a quantitybased on a single piece of information.
Please read each question and write your prediction on the line
below it. Were interested in your intuitions, so please dont make
complicated calculationsjust tell us what you think!

Each question was then introduced with a couple of sentences

to provide a context. Following are sample questions:

Movie grosses: Imagine you hear about a movie that has taken in 10
million dollars at the box ofce, but dont know how long it has
been running. What would you predict for the total amount of box
ofce intake for that movie?

Poem lengths: If your friend read you her favorite line of poetry,
and told you it was line 5 of a poem, what would you predict for the
total length of the poem?

Life spans: Insurance agencies employ actuaries to make predic-
tions about peoples life spansthe age at which they will die
based upon demographic information. If you were assessing an
insurance case for an 18-year-old man, what would you predict for
his life span?

Reigns of pharaohs: If you opened a book about the history of
ancient Egypt to a page listing the reigns of the pharaohs, and
noticed that at 4000 BC a particular pharaoh had been ruling for
11 years, what would you predict for the total duration of his reign?

Lengths of marriages: A friend is telling you about an acquaintance
whom you do not know. In passing, he happens to mention that this
person has been married for 23 years. How long do you think this
persons marriage will last?

Movie run times: If you made a surprise visit to a friend, and found
that they had been watching a movie for 30 minutes, what would
you predict for the length of the movie?

Baking times for cakes: Imagine you are in somebodys kitchen and
notice that a cake is in the oven. The timer shows that it has been
baking for 35 minutes. What would you predict for the total amount
of time the cake needs to bake?

Waiting times: If you were calling a telephone box ofce to book
tickets and had been on hold for 3 minutes, what would you predict
for the total time you would be on hold?

RESULTS

We rst ltered out responses that could not be analyzed or that
indicated a misunderstanding of the task, removing predictions
that did not correspond to numerical values or were less than
ttotal. Only a small minority of responses failed to meet these
criteria, except in the case of the marriage predictions. The total
number of responses analyzed was 174 for movie grosses, 197 for
poem lengths, 197 for life spans, 191 for reigns of pharaohs, 136
for movie run times, 130 for terms of U.S. representatives, 126
for baking times for cakes, and 158 for waiting times. The re-
sponses for the marriage stimuli were problematic because the
majority of participants (52%) indicated that marriages last
forever. This accurately reects the proportion of marriages
that do not end in divorce (Kreider & Fields, 2002), but pre-
vented us from analyzing the data using methods based on
median values. We therefore did not analyze responses for the
marriage stimuli further.

Peoples judgments for life spans, movie run times, movie
grosses, poem lengths, and terms of U.S. representatives were
indistinguishable from optimal Bayesian predictions based on
the empirical prior distributions, as shown in Figure 2. Peoples
prediction functions took on very different shapes in domains
characterized by Gaussian, power-law, and Erlang priors, just as
expected under the ideal Bayesian analysis. Notably, the model
predictions shown in Figure 2 have no free parameters tuned
specifically to t the human data, but are simply the optimal
functions prescribed by Bayesian inference given the relevant
world statistics. These results are inconsistent with claims that
cognitive judgments are based on non-Bayesian heuristics that
are insensitive to priors (Kahneman et al., 1982; Tversky &
Kahneman, 1974). The results are also inconsistent with simpler
Bayesian prediction models that adopt a single uninformative
prior, p(ttotal) / 1/ttotal, regardless of the phenomenon to be
predicted (Gott, 1993, 1994; Jaynes, 2003; Jeffreys, 1961;
Ledford et al., 2001).

Examining the results for the remaining stimulireigns of
pharaohs, baking times for cakes, and waiting timesprovides
an opportunity to learn about the limits of peoples capacity for
prediction. As shown in Figure 2, peoples predictions about the

770

Volume 17Number 9

Thomas L. Grifths and Joshua B. Tenenbaum

reigns of pharaohs had a form consistent with the appropriate
prior (an Erlang distribution), but were slightly too high. We
established peoples subjective priors for the reigns of pharaohs
in a follow-up experiment, asking 35 undergraduates to state the
typical duration of a pharaohs reign. The median response was
30 years, which corresponds to an Erlang prior on ttotal with
parameter b equal to 17.9, as opposed to the true value of ap-
proximately 9.34. Using this subjective Erlang prior produces a
close correspondence to the human judgments.

The pharaohs stimuli provide an instance of a situation in
which people make inaccurate predictions: when they know the
appropriate form for the prior, but not the details of its param-
eters. In contrast, responses to the cakes stimuli reveal that
people can make accurate predictions even in contexts in which
priors lack a simple form. The duration a cake should spend in
the oven is a quantity that follows a rather irregular distribution,
as shown in Figure 2. However, peoples judgments were still
close to the ideal Bayesian predictions, despite the complex
form of the empirical prior distribution.

These results suggest that peoples predictions can also be
used to identify the prior beliefs that inform them. The waiting-
times stimuli provide an opportunity to explore this possibility.
The true distribution of waiting times in queues is currently a
controversial question in operations research. Traditional
models, based on the Poisson process, assume that waiting times
follow a distribution with exponential tails (e.g., Hillier & Lie-
berman, 2001). However, several recent analyses suggest that in
many cases, waiting times may be better approximated by a
power-law distribution (Barabasi, 2005, provides a summary
and explanation of these ndings). Hence, it is not clear what the
objective distribution of durations should be for these stimuli.
Rather than using objective statistics on real-world durations to
assess the optimality of peoples judgments, as we did for the
other stimulus classes, we used peoples judgments for these
stimuli to assess which distributional form they assumed the
phenomenon would follow. We t prediction functions for
Gaussian, power-law, and Erlang distributions to the behavioral
data, attempting to minimize the sum of the squared differences
between the median human judgments and the predicted values
of ttotal. The power-law prior with g 5 2.43 provided the best t to
the human judgments, producing the predictions shown in
Figure 2. Assuming that peoples predictions are near-optimal
with respect to the true distribution of durations, these results
are qualitatively consistent with recent power-law models for
waiting-time distributions (Barabasi, 2005).

DISCUSSION

The results of our experiment reveal a far closer correspondence
between optimal statistical inference and everyday cognition
than suggested by previous research. Peoples judgments were
close to the optimal predictions produced by our Bayesian model

across a wide range of settings. These judgments also served as a
guide to peoples implicit beliefs about the distributions of
everyday quantities, and revealed that these beliefs are sur-
prisingly consistent with the statistics of the world. This nding
parallels formal analyses of perception and memory, in which
accurate probabilistic models of the environment play a key role
in the solution of inductive problems (Anderson, 1990; Ander-
son & Milson, 1989; Anderson & Schooler, 1991; Freeman,
1994; Geisler et al., 2001; Huber et al., 2001; Knill & Richards,
1996; Kording & Wolpert, 2004; Shiffrin & Steyvers, 1997;
Simoncelli & Olshausen, 2001; Weiss et al., 2002).

Although peoples predictions about everyday events were on
the whole extremely accurate, the cases in which their predic-
tions deviated from optimality may help to shed light on the
implicit assumptions and strategies that make these intuitive
judgments so successful most of the time in the real world. One
interesting hypothesis concerning such strategies is suggested
by the pattern of peoples errors in predicting the reigns of
pharaohs. Both the magnitude of errors and the variance in
judgments across participants were substantially greater for this
question than for our other questions. This should not be sur-
prising, as most participants probably had far less direct expe-
rience with the reigns of pharaohs than with the other kinds of
scenarios we presented. Despite this lack of direct experience,
peoples predictions were not completely off the mark: Their
judgments were consistent with having implicit knowledge of
the correct form of the underlying distribution but making in-
correct assumptions about how this form should be parame-
terized (i.e., its mean value).

The predictions for the reigns of pharaohs suggest a general
strategy people might employ to make predictions about unfa-
miliar kinds of events, which is surely an important prediction
problem faced in everyday life. Given an unfamiliar prediction
task, people might be able to identify the appropriate form of the
distribution by making an analogy to more familiar phenomena
in the same broad class, even if they do not have sufcient direct
experience to set the parameters of that distribution accurately.
For instance, participants might have been familiar with the
length of time that various modern monarchs have spent in their
positions, as well as with the causes (e.g., succession, death)
responsible for curtailing those times, and it is not unreasonable
to think that analogous mechanisms could have governed the
durations of pharaohs reigns in ancient Egypt. Yet most people
might not be aware of (or might not remember) just how short life
spans typically were in ancient Egypt compared with modern
expectations, even if they know life spans were somewhat
shorter. If participants predicted the reign of the pharaoh by
drawing an analogy to modern monarchs and adjusting the mean
reign duration downward by some uncertain but insufcient
factor, that would be entirely consistent with the pattern of errors
we observed. Such a strategy of prediction by analogy could be
an adaptive way of making judgments that would otherwise lie
beyond peoples limited base of knowledge and experience.

Volume 17Number 9

771

Everyday Predictions

The nding of optimal statistical inference in an important
class of cognitive judgments resonates with a number of recent
suggestions that Bayesian statistics may provide a general
framework for analyzing human inductive inferences. Bayesian
models require making the assumptions of a learner explicit. By
exploring the implications of different assumptions, it becomes
possible to explain many of the interesting and apparently in-
explicable aspects of human reasoning (e.g., McKenzie, 2003).
The ability to combine accurate background knowledge about
the world with rational statistical updating is critical in many
aspects of higher-level cognition. Bayesian models have been
proposed for learning words and concepts (Tenenbaum, 1999),
forming generalizations about the properties of objects (An-
derson, 1990; Shepard, 1987; Tenenbaum & Grifths, 2001),
and discovering logical or causal relations (Anderson, 1990;
Grifths & Tenenbaum, 2006; Oaksford & Chater, 1994). How-
ever, these modeling efforts have not typically attempted to
establish optimality in real-world environments. Our results
demonstrate that, at least for a range of everyday prediction
tasks, people effectively adopt prior distributions that are ac-
curately calibrated to the statistics of relevant events in the
world. Assessing the scope and depth of the correspondence
between probabilities in the mind and those in the world pre-
sents a fundamental challenge for future work.

AcknowledgmentsWe thank Liz Baraff and Onny Chatterjee
for their assistance in running the experiments, and Mira
Bernstein, Daniel Casasanto, Nick Chater, David Danks, Peter
Dayan, Reid Hastie, Konrad Kording, Tania Lombrozo, Rebecca
Saxe, Marty Tenenbaum, and an anonymous reviewer for com-
ments on the manuscript. The second author was supported by
the Paul E. Newton Chair.

