ab mi mo ar cu th do - na te fo mo th em di of hi ma mo fo sp re .
we sh th be ph re on th ti da ca be ac by re ga mi mo by de ne ne th co ma la of fe an a ve la nu of pa .
th ne ar rs pr - tr as a mu - la ge mo of a wi of sp fe ve wi ma us of an di in .
on th ge pr - tr ha de th fe , we pe di ne - tu us ba to ad th fe sl to ma th be at pr a pr di ov th st of mo hi ma mo .
us a fe ve th de se of th te ev of cr - ba sp de wi a si cr ba .
su - wo po pr ar es us fe ne ne fo ea cr ba an th pr ar me to pr th na es of th po pr us an fe ne ne .
in ( 12 ) , th sp te co sy is in wh mo th tr sy by in , in th mi la of th sy , sp ov ti as we as ov fr ba be th na me ne ne .
fe ne ne of se po ad -
in te mo , de be ne , ne
ne , ph re
a ut sp re ( as ) ha ev si -
ca ov th pa fe de .
ea sy ty di is di or ye / no , wh cu sy - te ca do qu we at re te - qu , sp - ta sp .
a hu am of pr ha be ma in im wo re ra , bu th co ac mo ha re fa st , de ma at to de be al .
a ty as sy us hi ma mo ( hm ) to mo th se st of sp si , wi ea hm st us a mi of ga to mo a sp re of th so wa .
th mo co sp re is a se of me fr ce co ( mf ) de fr a wi of ab 12 ms of sp .
th wi is ty ad by ab 12 ms pe fr , an ea fr of co is au wi di an di of di wi ne fr .
on re di in us de ac mo - el th co ma la of fe .
th wo in ( 12 ) pr - po a hi fr wh ea la is de to ca a se of di fe la .
fo ea fe , a sp ac re is co in wh th fe is ea to de .
in ( 12 ) , a pr ge mo is in wh th dy st in th hi vo tr re sp is us to ch lo - sp co in ac ph un .
fe ne ne ha be us in ma as sy ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
in by in fr ( 12 ) , th tr ar ( 12 ) mo a wh se of sp
co ( c ) 12 ie .
pe us of th ma
ho , pe to us th ma fo an ot pu mu be ob fr th ie by se a re to pu - pe . or .
th au ar wi th un of to , to , on , m1 12 , ca .
( e - ma : as . to . ed gd . to . ed hi -
ta ov gm :
th es of th po pr of hm st do no re de as ab th
th al an ea wa of co di fe ,
in bo di an co fe .
th us fa mo of th da to co ea pa be th ou on ea tr ca is se to a la fr of th we .
th be of ea we
in a ne ne be co by a la fr of tr ca th ea pa in a gm ha be ma by ot di in tr .
ne ne ha tr be tr pu di , wh gm ar ty tr as ge mo ( ev if di tr is pe - fo la in th tr pr ) .
ge tr al th da to im ma mo bi of co on th pa ( se be ) , th pa co fo th fa th ea co of a la gm mu be tr on a ve sm fr of th da .
mf , gm , an hm co - ev as a wa of do sp re wh co we to sl to ex mo co in ap .
mf th aw a lo of th in in th so wa , bu pr - se mo of th in re fo di .
by in te di , mf pa ov th ve st co in as of hm , na th su fr ar in gi th hi st of th hm .
th te di al al di co ga to mo th st te co by re th pa pa co to in co .
as we sh se , a fo tr ba lt , de di on a me - sc , po al to mf fo mo th ca ea mo co fe ( 12 ) .
gm ar ea to t to da us th em al , es wh th ha di co ma , an wi en co th ca mo an di .
th ar , ho , st in at mo hi - di da th ha an ki of co st .
su to ie tr .
on au , sp , an la pr
su , fo ex , th n si di pa ca oc in on su - ba an m si di pa - te ca oc in an su - ba .
su al th wh pa oc in ea su - ba is ap in .
a gm re n m co to mo th st be ea co mu ge bo su - ba ( ea pi of da ha on a si la ca ) .
on th ot ha , a mo th ex th da us mu ca on re n + m co , ea of wh is sp to a pa su - ba .
th ex in of gm fo mo fa st le to as sy th ha a ve la nu of ga , mo of wh mu be es fr a ve sm fr of th da .
in th pa , we fo on a mo po al to gm fo re hm st to fe ve .
in pa , we re th us of mu - la , fe - fo ne ne th ta a wi of fe ve as in an pr po pr of hm st as ou .
pr in of th ne ne ap ha us th ba al to tr th ne ne di .
th ap co ni wi a tr in by ( 12 ) in wh ge mo is re by di tr .
di tr is a ve se th to do wh us co th ar to sl to le a re go ge mo of th da .
as ge mo ge be , ho , th ad of di tr ge sm an is ev ou by a ma di : th am of co th th da im on th pa of a di mo is eq to th nu of bi re to sp th co la of th tr ca , wh th am of co fo a ge mo is eq to th nu of bi re to sp th in ve of th tr ca .
so wh th in ve co mu mo st th th la , a ge mo ca le ma mo pa be it ov .
th be of le a ge mo is gr ma - ni wh th is a la su of un sp in ad to th tr da th ha be la by a fo hm al .
we do no ma us of un da in th pa , bu it co on im ou re re to pu di ap .
na , ma of th hi - le fe le by th ge mo ma be ir fo ma th re di , ev th th ar im fo ex th in da .
ho , th is a pr wo pa if co is ch an so of th hi - le fe ar ve go fo di be th cl of in .
th ma no of ou wo is to sh th we ca ac co be ph re pe by pr - tr a mu - la ne ne , on la at a ti , as a ge mo of th wi of sp co .
th pr - tr ma it ea to op de ne ne th ha ma la of hi un an it al al
ma mo pa to be us be ov oc .
th ge pr - tr cr ma la of fe de th be pr mo co .
a su - qu ph of di ne - tu , us th st ba al , th sl ad th fe in ev la to ma th mo us fo di .
th bi ad of th ne wa of tr mu - la ne ne is th th li am of in in th la is no us to de fe fr sc .
it is on us to ch th fe ev so sl in or to ad th cl bo .
th fe th ar di by bu a mu - la ge mo of th mu ri in in th wi of sp co , an th do no re la da .
ou ap ma tw ma as ab
na of th re be th in da , wh in th ca is a wi of sp co , an th la , wh ar hm st pr by a fo al us a pr - ex as mo .
fi , we as th th di we wa to pe is mo di re to th un ca of th da th to th in el of th da it .
se , we as th a go fe - ve re of th un ca ca be re fr th in da by mo it hi - or st st .
it is ea to dr up ar ta in wh ou tw as ar en wr , bu a pu di ma le ap , su as a su ve ma wi a po ke , wo st wo ve we .
su , fo ex , th th la as to a wi of sp co is si th pa of tw pa co of th bi da .
ou ap wo al ce fa be th in is un to be pr in th hi - le fe an , ev if it is pr , it wi be in a mu mo co fo th th si fo it ha in th da .
ou cl is th , be of th hi st wa in wh sp is ge , th ar ta is ex wh as is no li , an ma le me th do no ma us of th hu di be th tw ta ha no lo te fu in as .
le a mu ge mo
th ar tw ve di wa to un ou ap - pr to le a mu - la ge mo of a wi of sp co .
in th di vi , we t a mu th ha in ma la of la va , bu us we sh am th hi la to ke th nu of pa un co .
in th un , en - ba vi , we t a re si ty of le mo th on ha on la of la va , bu th we tr th ac of th la va as da an t th sa ty of mo ag to th ne da .
th ca be re as ma ti as we li to le as ma la of la va as we de .
th un vi
12 is im fo a di tr sy to pr be es of th po pr ra of tw cl th th ra of th pr of ge th da fr a mi of tw , cl - sp , ge mo if th mo an th mi pr ar co .
th si le mo us in th un vi is ca a re bo ma ( rb ) .
it is a bi - pa gr in wh vi un th re ob
mo , da an hi : ac mo us de be ne
ar co to hi un th le to re fe us un we co .
an rb is re in th se th th ar no vi - vi or hi - hi co .
in th si ty of rb , th bi rb , bo th hi an vi un ar bi an st .
to de wi re - va in da , we us a ga - be rb in wh th hi un ar bi bu th in un ar li wi ga no .
we wi ex th ga - be rb la af rs ex th si bi
in a bi rb , th we on th co an th bi of th in un de a pr di ov th jo st of th vi an hi un vi an en fu .
th en of a jo co is :
e ( v , h| ) =
wh = ( w , b , a ) an wi re th sy in te be vi un i an hi un j wh bi an aj ar th bi te .
v an h ar th nu of vi an hi un .
th pr th an rb as to a vi ve v
p ( v| ) = ph ee ( v , h ) pu ph ee ( u , h )
si th ar no hi - hi co , th co di p ( h| , ) is fa an is gi by :
p ( hj = 12 , ) = ( aj +
wh ( x ) = ( 12 + ex ) no vi - vi co , p ( v| , ) is fa an is gi by :
si , si th ar th co di
p ( vi = 12 , ) = ( bi +
ex ma li le is in in a la rb be it is ex ex to co th de of th lo pr of th tr da .
ne - th , rb ha an ef ap tr pr - du ca co di ( 12 ) wh ma th su as bu bl fo le db .
we re up ea we , wi , us th di be tw me , pa co :
wi hv hv
th rs te on th rh of eq .
12 is th me fr wi wh vi un i an hi un j ar on to wh th vi ve ar sa fr th tr se an th st of th hi un ar de by eq .
th se te is th me fr wi wh i an j ar bo on wh th vi ve ar re of th da ve an th st of th hi un ar de by ap eq .
12 to th re .
re ar pr by ap eq .
12 to th hi st th we
co fr th da wh co th rs te on th rh of eq
th co di le ru do no fo th ma li gr .
un wh it wo at al is mu ea us th di vi , so we de th ex to th ne se .
af le th we in an rb mo , we us th st of th hi un , wh dr by re da , as th da fo tr an mo of th sa ki .
th pr ca be re to le as ma la of fe as we de .
ag , un wh th gr ap wo is mu ea us th di vi .
fo ga - be rb th en of a jo co -
e ( v , h| ) =
si th ar no vi - vi co , th co di p ( v| , ) is fa an is gi by :
p ( vi , ) = n
wh n ( , v ) is a ga wi me an va v .
ap fr th di , th in an le ru fo a ga - be rb ar th sa as fo a bi rb , th th le ra ne to be sm .
th di vi
in th un vi , it is ea to sa wh we do , bu ha to ju it .
in th al di vi , th le al is mo co to ex , bu mu ea to
a mu - la si be ne co of st bi un .
co a si be ne ( 12 ) th co of mu la of bi st un as sh in gu 12
th hi hi la re bi fe an th bo - to , vi , la re a bi da ve ( we wi
12 ke th eq si , we as th th ga no le of al th vi un is xe at 12
we al no th in da to ha a xe va of 12 fo ea co ov th wh tr se .
su to ie tr .
on au , sp , an la pr
12 ) le wi ti we : co a si be ne wi an in nu of la an wi ti sy we be la as sh in gu 12
in th ne , th po in th rs hi la is fa : th hi un ar in gi th st of th vi un .
th oc be th co cr by th pr co fr al of th la ab ex ca th an - co in th li te co fr th la be ( 12 ) .
mo , th fa po ca be co by si mu th vi ve by th tr we ma an th ap th lo fu to ea el :
j =1 , w ) = ( b ( 12 )
no th th si op co th no pr of th pr an th li te , no th li te , wh is co mo co .
sh ho to ha re - va da la ) .
ge da fr th mo is ea .
fi , bi st ar ch fo th to la of hi un us th bi to de th lo od of ch 12 or 12
gi th bi st of th un in la k , bi st ar ch in pa fo al of th un in la k 12 by ap th lo si 12 to th to in re fr fu ( x ) = ( 12 + ex ) th la ab pl th un ow bi :
=1 ( k ) , w ( k ) ) = ( b ( k1 )
wh h ( k ) is th ve of bi st fo la k an h ( k ) is it jt el .
w ( k ) is th ma of we fr la k to la k 12 , w ( k ) th bi of un j in la k .
th ve of st of th vi un , v , is al ca h ( 12 ) .
is an el of th ma , an b ( k )
no co th pr of ad th we on th to - do co so th th mo is mo li to ge - er th bi tr da on it vi un .
pe gr as in th ex lo pr of ge th tr da is ve si if we ca ge un sa of th hi st fr th po di gi an ob da ve :
wh th an br de an ex ov th tr da .
if we wa to en th ev we up in th lo pr of th da , we ne to us a ve sm le ra an we ne to av ov ma sa fr th po .
in pr , it is mu mo ef to us a la le ra on sm mi - ba of th da .
un , ge un sa fr th ex - ti la po ap to be in fo al bu th sm mo . 12 co , fo ex , th po in th rs hi la .
th po is th no pr of a co , no - fa pr cr by th la ab an a co no - fa li te cr by th ob st of th vi un .
wh ge da fr th mo , th un in th rs hi la ar , by de , co in gi th st of th un in th la ab .
wh in th po , ho , th ar no co in gi th st of th un in th la be , ev wi a un pr , du to th ph of ex aw ( 12 ) .
ap sa fr th po ca be ob by us a sl ma ch mo ca me ( 12 ) or a fa bu cr ap ( 12 ) .
th is , ho , on ve sp fo of si be ne in wh sa fr th po di in ev hi la is ju as ea as ge da fr th mo .
in fa , in an ge ar th sa pr , bu ru in op
12 th re , mi mo ap to be fa su .
th ex po ov th mi co is ea to co be it on ha as ma te as th nu of co .
th co si , ho , co at a te pr : th wh da ve mu be ge by a si co .
as we sh se la , it is po to ac an eq si po wh al mu si ca .
an in si be ne wi ti we .
al la mu ha th sa nu of un .
th ti we ma in mu si in th ne th in a ge si be ne .
on th po ha be sa fo th rs hi la , ex th sa pr ca be us fo th ne hi la .
so in is ex ea in th sp ki of ne .
le is a li mo di be ev co of th ti we ma ge di de .
ho , we kn in ad th th ex de wi be ze fo ve hi le la .
th is be th bo - up in pr is re a ma ch th ev co to it st di in th hi la .
wh it is sa fr it st di , th cu we ar pe fo ex th sa , so , on av , th is no de .
wh th we an bi ar sm , th ma ch co ra an we ca ap
mo , da an hi : ac mo us de be ne
gr as in th lo li qu we by ju ad th de fo th rs tw la ( 12 ) .
th ti we me th th pr of in h ( 12 ) fr h ( 12 ) is th sa as th pr of ge v fr h ( 12 ) .
co , h ( 12 ) ca be vi as a no bu un es of th pr fo th vi un pr by h ( 12 ) .
si h ( 12 ) ca be vi as a no es of th pr fo th un in th rs hi la pr by h ( 12 ) .
we ca us th tw fa an eq 12 to ge an un es of th su of th de fo th rs tw la of we .
th gi th fo le ru wh is kn as co di ( 12 ) :
j ( vi h ( 12 ) j i hh ( 12 )
) + h ( 12 )
wh th an br de ex ov th tr da ( or a re mi - ba ) .
as th we an bi gr , it ma se to ad th de fo mo la ( 12 ) an fo le re go ge mo th is es ( 12 ) .
fo th pu of cr se fe de , ho , ev a ra po tu ge mo is go en , an th le ru in eq 12 is su ev wh th we ge qu la .
th ap ma li de pr by th le ru be hi bi , bu th ar ch to co an th al ha ve lo va ( 12 ) wh is im fo al a hi le ra wh th de ar es fr sm mi - ba of da .
th is ar di fu in
12 ) le di we in ea la : no th we ha ef in an le pr fo an in si be ne wi ti we , th ne st is to ma th ge mo mo po by al di we in di la .
fi , we le wi al of th we ma ti to .
th we un th bo we ma fr th ot ma an fr th va of it we .
th fr ma is no ca w ( 12 ) .
th , ke al th re ma ti to , we co to le th hi ma , tr th in st ve h ( 12 ) in ju th sa wa as we pr tr v .
th in rs in h ( 12 ) fr v by us ( w ( 12 ) ) t an th in h ( 12 ) , h ( 12 ) , an h ( 12 ) in a si bo - up ma us w or w t .
th in fo th hi hi la pr un sa gi h ( 12 ) , bu th si in me no lo gi an ex un sa fo h ( 12 ) be th hi we ma ar no lo eq to w ( 12 ) so th no lo cr a pr th ex ca th co in th li te .
ho , th po fo h ( 12 ) is st ap fa an it ca be pr th if we co to in h ( 12 ) as if th hi ma ha no ch , th le im a va lo bo on th lo pr of th tr da ( 12 ) 12
12 pr as th ea la of we is le by fo th ma li de , ra th us th co di
we ca re th pr of fr an un th lo co of th cu ti we ma as ma ti as we li , so we ca le as ma la of fe as we de .
wh we ha le k la of fe , we ar le wi a di ge mo ca a de be ne ( db ) th ha k di we ma be th lo la an an in nu of hi la th al us th k th we ma or it tr .
we th si th aw al la ab th k th an ad a na so la of la un re hm st .
we al je th pr in th wa us to ju th ge le , an we tr th wh sy as a fe , de ne ne .
th ne is th di ne - tu by us ba to ma th lo pr of th co hm st
fo th so na la , th pr of la l gi th re - va ac of th na la of fe ( wh we ca h ( k ) ev th th ar no lo bi sa va ) is de to be
ex ( bl + pi h ( k ) pm ex ( bm + pi h ( k )
wh bl is th bi of th la an wi is th we fr hi un i in la k to la l .
th di tr mu le th we fr th la la of fe to th la un , bu it do no ne to cr an ne fe de .
it si ne - tu ex fe de th we di by th un pr - tr .
to mo re va in th vi la , we si re th bi un by li un wi ga no th ha a va of 12
th do no ch p ( h ( 12 ) |v ) an th di fo vi un i gi h ( 12 ) is a ga wi un va an me i gi by :
i = b ( 12 )
th ty of ge pr - tr fo by di - na ne - tu ha be us su fo ha - wr ch re ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , di re ( 12 ) , 12 - d ob re ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , ex ro ma fr cl ae im ( 12 ) , in re ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) an ma tr ( 12 ) .
as we sh se , it is al ve go fo ph re .
us de be ne fo ph re in or to ap db wi xe in an ou di - si to ph re , we us a co wi of n su fr of sp co to se th st of th vi un of th lo la of th db .
on it ha be pr - tr as a ge mo , th re fe ne ne is di tr to ou a pr di ov th po la of th ce fr .
to ge ph se , th se of pr
12 a co ab of th co te , we so us db to re to a fe ne ne th wa in us a ge tr de be ne , ev th th fe ne ne is cl ve di fr a be ne .
su to ie tr .
on au , sp , an la pr
pr di ov th po la fo ea fr is fe in a st vi de .
st sp , si th hm im a pr ov st , we sh di ou th pr fr th po di ov hm st pr by th db , al fo ou pa ta it ma no di .
ex se
ti co
ph re ex we pe on th ti co . 12 we us th 12 sp tr se an re - mo al sa re ( i . e . , id se fo al sp in th da ) si th co bi th re .
a se de se of 12 sp wa us fo tu al of th me pa , su as th nu of la an th si of ea la .
re ar re us th 12 - sp co te se , wh ex th de se .
th sp wa an us a 12 - ms ha wi wi a 12 - ms xe fr ra .
in mo of th ex , we re th sp us 12 - or me fr ce co ( mf ) an en , al wi th rs an se te de .
fo so ex , we us a fo - tr - ba lt - ba wi 12 co di on a me - sc ( an en ) to wi th rs an se te de .
th da we no so th , av ov th tr ca , ea co or rs de or se de ha ze me an un va .
we us 12 ta cl la ( i . e . , 12 st fo ea on of th 12 ph ) .
af de , th 12 ph cl we ma to a se of 12 cl as in ( 12 ) fo sc .
al of ou ex us a bi la mo ov ph , es fr th
co se
tr db of th si us in th pa is qu co - pu ex .
tr wa ac by ex gr pr , in pa gp in a nv te s1 sy , us th cu li ( 12 ) .
a si pa ov th en tr se ( an ep ) fo a mo wi 12 hi la an 12 un pe la to ab 12 mi du pr - tr of th to la an ab 12 mi du ne - tu th wh ne wi ba .
a si gp le at 12 ti fa th a si 12 gh
fo al ex , we xe th pa fo th vi de .
sp , we us a ze wo in pr - it an a la mo sc fa of 12 .
al db we pr - tr wi a xe re us st gr de wi a mi - ba si of 12 tr ca .
fo ga - bi rb , we ra 12 ep wi a xe le ra of 12 wh fo bi - bi rb we us 12 ep wi a le ra of 12 .
th th us to ju th pr - tr al as - su th wh th st of th vi un ar re fr th in bi ac in th rs hi la , th ar re st .
to re no in th le , we ac re th de an us th re va ( se ( 12 ) fo mo de ) .
fo ne - tu , we us st gr de wi th sa mi - ba si as in pr - tr .
th le ra st at 12 .
at th en of ea ep , if th su er on th de se in , th we we re to th va at th be of th ep an th le ra wa ha .
th co un th le ra fe be
du bo pr - tr an ne - tu , a sm we - co of 12 wa us an th le wa ac by us a mo of 12 ( ex fo th rs ep of ne - tu wh di no us mo ) .
( 12 ) gi a de ex of we - co an mo an se wa to se th .
fi 12 an gu 12 sh th ef of va th si of ea hi la an th nu of hi la .
fo si we us th sa si fo ev hi la in a ne .
fo th co , th nu of in fr wa xe at 12
nu of la
ph er ra on th de se as a fu of th nu of la an si of ea la , us 12 in fr .
th ma tr vi in gu 12 an 12 is th ad mo hi la gi be pe , th th ga di as th nu of la in .
us mo hi un pe la al im pe wh th nu of hi la is le th 12 , bu wi mo hi la th nu of un ha li ef pr it is at le 12
th ad of us a de ar is cl if we co th be wa to us a to of 12 hi un : it is be to us tw la of 12 or fo la of 12 th on la of 12
to be fr ha ma hi la , it is ne to do ge pr - tr .
wi a si hi la of 12 un , ge pr - tr gi a ph er ra of 12 an ex th sa ne - tu al st fr
mo , da an hi : ac mo us de be ne
nu of la
nu of la
ph er ra on th co te se as a fu of th nu of la an si of ea la , us 12 in fr .
ph er ra on th co te se as a fu of th nu of hi la us ra in an pr ne .
sm ra we gi 12 .
so ge pr - tr do no he .
ad a se hi la ca a la pr in in th nu of tr pa th ad a th hi la be th in an ou la ar mu sm th th hi la an be ad hi la ar fu co .
th la in in ca ma th mo fa mo ex , bu it al ma it ov fa mo ea .
fi 12 an gu 12 sh th fo ne th ar no pr - tr ( bu st us ea st ) , th tw ef ap ca ou , wh fo pr - tr ne th is le ov so ex la he .
al th ad of pr - tr is no as la as fo so ot ta ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) , it is st re to ga an ad fr us ex hi la .
th de se is ac us 12 , 12 , or 12 fr an th is tr wh th nu of hi la .
mu sm ( 12 fr ) an mu bi ( 12 fr ) wi gi si wo pe .
th ra fr 12 to 12 co th av si of ph or sy .
sm in wi mi im di in in th co , wh ne wi la wi ar pr ge di by th al fr th ce of th wi .
th tr ( 12 ) ar su us 12 se lo wi , bu it de se ne to mo di pa of th sp wh si th le ta .
la wi wo pr wo be us tr ta wh pr th ne wi mo in ab th co an ma th pe fr mo re .
nu of la
nu of la
ph er ra on th de se as a fu of th nu of hi la us ra in an pr ne .
ph er ra on th de se as a fu of th nu of la , us 12 hi un pe la .
fi th nu of hi un pe la to 12 an va th nu of fr in th in wi ( gu 12 an 12 an al 12 an 12 ) sh th th be pe on
si al bu th ou la we ar pr - tr , it co be he to in a bo at th la la
su to ie tr .
on au , sp , an la pr
nu of la
nu of la
ph er ra on th co te se as a fu of th nu of la , us 12 hi un pe la .
co wi of lt ba co as in fe to th db .
ph er ra as a fu of th nu of la , us a
of th db to co ov by re th nu of we th ar no pr - tr .
a bo la fo by a so is ex eq to us a di ou co fo ea cl an th ma th cl pr pr to th ex sq di be th co fo a cl an th ac pa in th bo la ( 12 ) .
fi 12 sh th ha a bo la do no ac im pe fo a ty ne wi 12 hi la of 12 un an an in wi of 12 fr of
th ef of th si of th bo on th ph er ra fo a ty ne wi 12 in fr an 12 hi la of 12 un pe la ( ex fo th la hi la ) .
in al of th pr ex mf we us as th in re .
mf at to re th di of th in by el va th ar ir fo re an sp - fe th re wi a mo - si in re th to ma re ea .
wi a mo po le pr , be re pe ca be ac
by us a le pr - pr in re co of a la nu of lt - ba co au wi te di an di of di .
fi 12 sh th a db is ca of ma go us of th mo de in av in th la in re .
fo th db sy th pe be on th de se , th ph er ra on th ti co te se wa 12 .
re re on ti co te se
st se mo ( 12 )
co ra fi ( 12 )
la - ma gm ( 12 )
au co ra fi ( 12 )
re ne ne ( 12 )
ba tr hm ( 12 )
mo ht ( 12 )
he cl ( 12 )
tr hm di tr w / bm ( 12 ) mo de be ne ( db ) ( th wo )
ta i co th be pe db mo wi
pr re re on th ti co te se 12
co an fu wo
so fa as we kn , th wo re in th pa wa th rs ap to ac mo of ne ne in wh mu la of fe ar ge pr - tr .
si th , ou ap ha be ex to ex mo th co st of th in fe ( 12 ) .
it ha be al us to jo tr th ac an la mo us th fu ut ra th a lo wi of fr
12 ( 12 ) a pe of 12 is re on th co te se of ti .
th sp un us ar no th sa as th st ti de an th me wo ve pr gi a wo re us th st
mo , da an hi : ac mo us de be ne
it ha be al ap to a la vo ta ( 12 ) wh th co gm ap us a ve la nu of co .
in th la ta it gi a ve la ad re to th gm .
we ar cu ex al in re th al de ne ne to se mo of th re in in th so - wa , su as ve pr co - de of on ti in di fr ba .
we ar al ex wa of us re ne ne to gr in th am of de in ab th pa th ca be ca fo to he in th in of th
we th ji gl , jo br , li de an ge pe fo he di an tw an re fo im th pa .
th re wa fu by a gi fr mi re an by gr fr th na sc an en re co of ca an th ca in fo ad re .
