le a re bo ma
re bo ma we de - op us bi st hi un .
th ca be ge by re ea bi un by an in nu of co th al ha th sa we bu ha pr - gr mo ne bi .
th le an in ru fo th st si - mo un ar un .
th ca be ap - pr ec by no , re li - ea un .
co wi bi un , th un le fe th ar be fo ob re on th no da an fa ve on th la fa in th wi da .
un bi un , re li un pr in ab re in - te as in tr th mu - ti la of fe de .
re bo ma ( rb ) ha be us as ge mo of ma di ty of da in la or un im ( hi et al . , 12 ) , se of me - ce co - ci th re sp ( mo & hi , 12 ) , ba of wo ( sa & hi , 12 ) , an us ra of mo ( sa et al . , 12 ) .
in th co - fo th ca be us to mo hi - di te se su as vi or mo - ti ca da ( ta et al . , 12 ) .
th mo im - po us is as le mo th ar co to fo de be ne ( hi et al . , 12 ) .
im co of bi pi ca be mo by an rb th us a la of bi hi un ( fe - tu de ) to mo th hi - or co be pi .
if th ar no di in be - tw th hi un an no di in be - tw th vi un th re th pi , th is a si an ec me ca co di to le a go se of fe de fr a se of tr im ( hi , 12 ) .
we st wi sm , ra we on th sy co - ti be ea pi i an ea fe de j .
th we re up ea we , wi , us th di be tw me , pa co
wi = ( <v <v )
wh is a le ra , <v is th fr wi wh vi un i an hi un j ar on to - ge wh th fe de ar be dr by im fr th tr se an < vi >r is th co fr wh th hi un ar be - in dr by re im .
a si le ru ca be us fo th bi .
gi a tr im , we se th bi st , hj , of ea fe de to be 12 wi pr
p ( hj = 12 ) =
12 + ex ( bj pi vi )
wh bj is th bi of j an vi is th bi st of pi i .
on bi st ha be ch fo th hi un we pr a re of th tr im by se th st of ea pi to be 12 wi pr
p ( vi = 12 ) =
12 + ex ( bi pj hj )
ap in pr of th 12 th in co - en on ma le , ha , is , 12
co 12 by th au ( s ) / ow ( s ) .
th le we an bi im de a pr di ov al po bi im vi th en , e ( v , h ) , of a jo co of th
re im rb
vi an hi un :
e ( v , h ) = x
vi wi x
p ( v ) = ph ee ( v , h )
ga un
rb we or de us bi st - ti un fo bo th vi an hi la to de wi re - va da ( hi & sa , 12 ) re th bi vi un by li un wi in ga - si no as rs su by ( fr & ha , 12 ) .
th en fu th be :
e ( v , h ) = x
wh i is th st de of th ga no fo vi un i .
it is po to le th va of th no fo ea vi un bu th is di us bi hi un .
in ma ap , it is mu ea to rs no ea co of th da to ha ze me an un va an th to us no - fr re - co , wi th va in eq 12 se to 12
th re va of a ga vi un is th eq to it to - do in fr th bi hi - de un pl it bi .
we us th ty of no - fr vi un fo th mo of ob an fa im
re li un
to al ea un to ex mo in , ( te & hi , 12 ) in bi un wh ca be vi as n se co of a bi un th al sh th sa bi an we .
a ni si - ee of us we - sh to sy a ne ty of un ou of bi un is th th ma un le in bi - bi rb re un .
si al n co re th sa to in , th al ha th sa pr , p , of tu - in on an th on ha to be co on .
th ex nu th ar on is n p an th va in th nu is n p ( 12 p ) .
fo sm p , th ac li a po un , bu as p ap 12 th va be - co sm ag wh ma no be de .
al , fo sm va of p th gr in p is ex in th to in .
th ma le mu le st
fi 12
a co of th di wa to mo re li un .
th re cu sh th ex va of th su of an in nu of bi un wi ea ha a bi on le th th pr on .
th bl cu is th ap lo ( 12 ( x ) ) .
th gr cu is th ex va of a re li un wi ad ga no as de in se 12
th re an bl cu ar vi in .
th fo th st si un ( ss ) de
a sm mo to bi un ma th fa mo in as mo of re ne an al mo us fo pr ap .
we ma an in - ni nu of co th al ha th sa le we ve w an th sa le bi , b , bu ea co ha a di , xe os to th bi .
if th o - se ar 12 , 12 , 12 , . . .
th su of th pr - ti of th co is ex cl to ha a cl fo ( gu 12 ) :
( x i + 12 ) lo ( 12 + ex ) ,
wh x = vw + b .
so th to ac of al of th co be li a no , in - va ve of a sm re li un
ev th lo ( 12 + ex ) is no in th ex fa , we ca mo it ac us a se of bi un wi sh we an xe bi os .
th se ha no mo pa th an or bi un , bu it pr a mu mo ex - pr va .
th va in th in ac le is ( x ) so un th ar rm o do no cr no an th no do no be la wh x is
a dr of gi ea co a bi th di by a xe os is th th lo si fu ne to be us ma ti to ge th pr
12 we on us n co , we ne to su th te
lo ( 12 + ex ) fr th ap .
re im rb
re fo sa an in va co .
is po , ho , to us a fa ap in wh th sa va of th re li un is no co to be an in .
in it is gi by ma ( 12 , x+ ( 12 , ( x ) ) wh n ( 12 , v ) is ga no wi ze me an va v .
we ca a un th us th ap a n oi li u ni ( nr ) an th pa sh th nr wo be th bi hi un fo se di
( ja et al . , 12 ) ha ex va re no ( in th ma ( 12 , x ) no , wh th re to as po pa ) in th co - te of co ne an ha fo th to im di pe .
ou em re in se 12 an 12 fu su th ob - se .
we al gi an ap pr in fo th ma ( 12 , x ) no , fu ju th us .
in eq
nr ha so in ma pr - ti ( ha et al . , 12 ) , on of wh is ve us - fu fo ob re .
a ma co wh de an ob re sy is ho to ma th ou in to pr of th in su as lo , sc , or , li et .
co ne ne ar of sa to ac tr in bu in th pu fo th ac ac so qu di .
if an ob is tr in th in im , it re in a po of lo lt th ha sh we is al tr .
so if it ca be re we by a pa of fe ac wh it is in on lo , it ca al be re - re eq we by a tr pa of fe ac wh it is an lo .
we ca th tr eq : th re va in th sa wa as th im .
in a de co ne , tr in is ac by us su - sa to in a sm am of tr in af ea la of lt .
bi hi un do no ex in eq - an , bu re li un do , pr th ha ze bi an ar no - fr .
sc up al of th in - te in an im by > 12 ca ch wh a ze - bi un re a to in ab or be ze .
so al of th o un re o an th re - ma al in th ac by a fa of .
th st tr fo ma la of re li un .
wh de wh tw fa im co fr th sa pe , we ma us of th ni pr of re - ti li un by ba th de on th co
of th an be th ac of th fe de - to in th la hi la .
th fe ve ar in eq an th co is in in - an .
th ty of in in th is im fo re ca be ac by si di al th pi in by th su .
th wo ca a bi ch in th ac of fe de th at to th pa of a fa wh th is a br sp in th ba .
em ev
we em co nr to st bi - na hi un on tw vi ta : 12 ) ob re on th ji - cl no da ( le et al . , 12 ) , an 12 ) fa ve on th la fa in th wi da ( hu et al . , 12 ) .
bo da co co im va - ab th ma th di ta .
al , th bo al ha a nu of pu re fo va me , wh gi a co ba fo ju ho go ou re ar .
we us rb wi bi hi un or nr to ge pr - tr on or mo la of fe an we th di ne - tu th fe us ba .
on bo ta nr gi be di pe th bi un .
th di mo us th de ve of nr th im th fu y = ma ( 12 , x ) .
fo ba , we ta th gr of th fu to be 12 wh x 12 an 12 wh x > 12 ( i . e .
we ig th di at x = 12 ) .
ji - cl no
no is a sy 12 ob re da th co ve cl of to ( hu , an , ca , pl , tr ) im by a st - pa ca - er sy fr di vi un di li co .
no co in se ve th ji - cl ve ha gr st - pa im wi cl ba an a ce ob wh is ra ji in po , si , pi in et .
th is al a di ob pl in th pe .
ex fr th da ar sh in gu 12
fo ea cl , th ar te di in , ve of wh ar in th tr se an th re in th te se .
so at te ti a cl - si ne to re un in of th sa cl .
in ad to th ve ob cl , th is a si cl wh im co no of th ob in th ce .
fo de se ( le et al . , 12 ) .
12 al co wi bi un bu th we
no be th bi un , so we om th re .
re im rb
fi 12
st - pa tr ca fr th ji - cl no tr se .
th st - pa im ar su fr th or - in re of 12 12 12 to 12 12 12 to sp up ex .
th ar no to be ze - me an di by th av st de of al th pi in al th tr im .
th ar 12 , 12 tr ca ( 12 , 12 ca pe cl ) an 12 , 12 te ca ( 12 , 12 ca pe cl ) .
we ho ou 12 , 12 ca fr th tr se an us th as a va se fo se th mo ar ( nu of hi - de un an nu of la ) an fo ea st - pi .
th va se is cr by ta al 12 , 12 tr im of a si ( ra se ) ob in fr ea of th ve ob cl , an an eq nu of ra se im fr th
to tr a cl we us a si ap to ( la et al . , 12 ) .
we rs gr pr - tr tw la of fe , ea as an rb us cd .
th we us mu re at th to - mo hi la to pr th la an di ne - tu th pa in al la of th cl ( se gu 12 ) .
we ha tr 12 , 12 an 12 un fo th rs hi la , an 12 an 12 un fo th se on .
us mo un al ga be cl re , so th ar wi th be re ha 12 un in th rs la an 12 in th se .
we su th th re wi be ev be wi mo hi un .
ca , th pi ar re by ga un ( hi & sa , 12 ) an th hi un ar ei nr or st bi un .
pr - tr is do fo 12 ep ( in bo la ) , us mi - ba of 12 tr ex wi a le - in ra of 12 ap to th av pe - ca cd up , al wi mo ( hi et al . , 12 ) .
fi 12 sh a su of fe le by th rs - le rb wi 12 nr in th hi la .
ma of th ar ga - li lt , so nr se ca of le qu se fe fr im .
th cl re ( se 12 ) sh th th ar qu se as we .
fi 12
fi 12
ne ar us fo cl no cl ta .
we gr pr - tr tw hi la of nr as rb .
th cl la is re as a k - di bi ve wi 12 - of - k ac , wh k is th nu of cl .
th cl co th pr of th k cl fr th se la hi ac h1 us th so fu .
fr of tr im on wh a hi un is ac
fi 12
hi of nr bi ac to ho of th ar ac ( i . e .
ha a va ab ze ) on tr im , as co on ji - cl no fo an rb wi 12 nr in th hi la .
is a hi th sh ho of th hi un in th rb ha va ab ze on th tr se .
if a un is al ac , th it wo en up in th ri bi of th hi .
no th an al - ac un is pu li si it ne ge re .
as th hi sh , th ar no su un in th mo .
th is so va in ho of th un ar ac .
we ha lo at th fe th co to ea of th th pe in th hi - to : th pe ne 12 on th x - ax ar ga - li lt , wh th pe ne 12 ar po lt .
th sm pe be 12 an 12 co mo to mo gl lt .
cl re
ta 12 li th te se er ra of cl wi a si hi la , us ei bi un or nr - lu , wi an wi pr - tr .
nr ou -
re im rb
fi 12
a su of th fe le by an rb on im fr ji - cl no .
th rb ha 12 nr in th hi la , an th sh ar th 12 fe wi th hi l1 no .
so by l1 no te to pi fe wi we - de ga - li we pa .
on ab 12 of th fe ar ga - li .
th re co of lt wi mo gl we pa , as we as po lt th co pi to th hi un .
pe bi un , bo wh ra in an wh pr - tr .
pr - tr he im th pe of bo un ty .
bu nr wi - ou pr - tr ar be th bi un wi pr -
ta 12 li th re fo cl wi tw hi la .
ju as fo si hi la cl , nr - lu ou bi un re of wh gr pr - tr is us on in th rs la , in bo la , or no at al .
pr - tr im th re : pr - tr on th rs la an ra in th se la is be th ra in bo .
pr - tr bo la gi fu im fo nr bu no fo bi un .
fo co , th er ra of so ot mo - el ar : mu re on pi 12 , ga - si ke sv 12 , co ne 12 , co - vo ne wi an sv at th to - mo hi - de la 12 .
th la th re ar fr ( be & le , 12 ) .
ou re ar wo th th of co ne , bu 12 ) ou mo us he - il su im , an 12 ) co ne ha kn of im to an ap tr - la in ha - wi in th ar .
ta 12
te er ra fo cl wi tw hi la - er ( 12 un in th rs , 12 in th se ) , tr on 12 12 12 ji - cl no im .
la fa in th wi
th pr ta fo th la fa in th wi ( lf ) da is as fo : gi tw fa im as in , pr wh th id of th fa ar th sa or di .
th da co co fa of pu gu co fr th we us a fr - fa de .
th bo bo co by th fa de is us to ap no th fa po an sc wi th im .
so ex fr th da ar sh in gu 12
fo de se ( hu et al . , 12 ) .
ta 12
te er ra fo cl wi 12 hi un tr on 12 12 12 ji - cl no im -
pr - tr ? nr bi
fi 12
fa - pa ex fr th la fa in th
re im rb
ne ar
th ta re a bi cl wi tw se of in ( th tw fa ) .
if we st th tw in to an tr th re as on ex in ve , th cl ou wi de on th or in wh th in ar st .
to ma th cl - si sy wi re to th in , we us a si ar ( ch et al . , 12 ) .
th id is to le a fu th ta a si fa as in an co so fe ve fr it .
gi a pa of fa , th fu is ap to bo fa se , an th tw co fe ve ar co - bi us a xe , sy fu in a si re wh is in to in or .
th pr of th tw fa be th sa pe is co as ou fr th re .
th en - ti sy , in th fe ex re ov th tw fa , ca be le jo .
he we ch th fe ex to be a fu - co fe la of nr , pr - tr as an rb .
we us co di as th sy fu th co th tw fe ve .
co - si di is in to re of it in , wh wh co wi th eq of nr - lu ma th en mo an in to re of th pi by a po sc .
th in - va ho re of th nu of la of nr , so it is po to tr de ar wi th pr .
in or to ma th fe ex - tr ex eq , we do no us bi in th hi un .
fi 12 sh th ar of ou fa ve mo .
lf im ar of si 12 ( 12 co ch ) wi th fa in th ce an a lo of ba su - ro it .
re it ha be fo th hu ar ab to ge 12 ac on th lf ta ev wh th ce of th im is ma ( ku et al . , 12 ) .
to pr ba in fr ar - ci in th re , we on us a 12 12 wi fr th ce .
th im ar th ro an sc su th th co of th ey ar th sa ac al im .
we fu su th wi - do to 12 ( 12 ch ) .
th sa im no - iz pr us fo ji - cl no is ap he as we .
lf co 12 , 12 im of 12 , 12 pe .
fo th pu of re re , th de of lf ha pr - de 12 sp of th da fo 12 - fo cr va , ea co 12 , 12 tr pa an 12 te pa .
th nu of sa an di -
fi 12
si ne us fo th la fa in th wi ta .
th fe ex fw co on hi la of nr pr - tr as an rb ( on si fa ) wi pa w .
fw is ap to th fa im - ag ia an ib , an th co di d be th re - su fe ve fw ( ia ) an fw ( ib ) is co .
th pr of th tw fa ha th sa id is th co as p r ( sa ) = w an b ar sc le pa .
en ca ar al eq , bo fo tr an te se .
th id of th pe in th tr an te se ar al ke di , so at te ti th mo mu pr on un id .
we rs pr - tr a la of fe as an rb us al 12 , 12 si fa in th tr se of ea sp , th pl it in th si ar in gu 12 an di - in ne - tu th pa on pa of fa .
as be , du pr - tr pi ar ga un , an th hi un ar ei nr or st
fi 12 sh 12 of th 12 fe le by an rb on 12 12 co im wi nr in th hi la .
li th no mo in se 12 , th mo is al pr - tr fo 12 ep on mi - ba of si 12 wi a le ra of 12 an mo .
th mo ha le de fo pa of fa li ey , no , mo , ey br et .
so fe de th bo of th fa .
th is a mi of lo lt an mo gl on th de mo th ju a si pa of th fa .
th hi in gu 12 sh ho of th un in th rb tu on fo th fa in lf .
un th no mo , he th hi ha on on pe .
in pa , th ar al no po lt in th
du di ne - tu , we us a su of th pu fa da ( ku et al . , 12 ) as a va - da se fo se th mo ar an fo
re im rb
ve - fo cr va .
ta 12 li th av ac of va mo , al wi th st de .
mo us nr se to be mo ac , bu th st de ar to la to dr rm co .
th tw cu be lf re ar 12 12 ( wo et al . , 12 ) , an 12 12 ( ku et al . , 12 ) .
th fo us a co au fa al sy to no th fa , wh th la - te us ad la ( co ma ) th de - sc th fa , su as et , se , ag et .
su en ca be ap to ou mo as we , an th ar li to in ac si .
th re ma al be be fr th ba - gr pi ar th fa , wh we ha ( mo )
mi of ex ma
we ha sh th nr wo we fo di - ti , bu th ar al an in wa of mo th de of re - va , hi - di da .
a st wa to do th is to us a mi of di - on ga .
al we ca us a mi of fa an .
bo of th mo ar ex - ne in if th da co co st .
co , fo ex , im of pa of in di .
if a mi mo fo si di im ne n co , a si mi mo of pa of di ne n 12 co .
fo , th ex gr in th nu of co in th mi ca be ac wi on li gr in th nu of la va an qu gr in th nu of pa if we us re li
co us re li un wi ze bi to mo da th li on th su of a un hy - sp .
ea re li un co to a pl th th ce of th hy .
an ac of 12 fo on ha of th hy an fo th ot ha it ac in li wi di fr th pl .
n un ca cr 12 re - gi on th su of th hy
as we mo
12 th hy is at le n - di .
ta 12
ac on th lf ta fo va mo tr on 12 12 co im .
fi 12
a su of th fe le by an rb on 12 12 co im fr lf .
th rb ha 12 nr - lu in th hi la , an sh ab ar th 12 fe - tu wi th hi l1 no .
fr of tr im on wh a hi un is ac
fi 12
hi of nr bi ac to ho of th ha a va ab ze on si fa im in lf fo an rb wi 12 nr in th hi la .
ea st .
th su , ca th de se by th cr of pu , do no co an id - ti th ar in lf .
cl re
as ex be , af pr - tr a si la of fe as an rb , we in it in th si ar in gu 12 an di ne - tu th pa .
we ha tr mo wi 12 , 12 , 12 an 12 un in th hi la .
th di in ac is sm be 12 an 12 un al th re in th se ar fo 12 un .
th ru of lf sp th a mo ac mu be co us te - fo cr va us th te pr - sp sp of th da .
to sp up ex - pe , we me tw sp in on an pe
re im rb
ar wi ea of th re th su of un th ar no - ze do no ch so we ha a li - ea mo , bu it is a di li mo in ev re .
th mi pr of th ex ma li mo ar de im by th sa pa as ar us to de p ( v| ) an , un a di mo , th mi pr ar ha to co ex ( na & hi , 12 ) .
th is a mu be wa of ex la mi of li mo wi sh la va th th me de in ( hi et al . , 12 ) wh us di li mo as th co of th mi an a se si - mo be ne to de wh hi un sh be pa of th cu li mo .
in th mo , it is ha to in th va of th bi la va an th ca be ju in de at th bo be - tw tw li re .
a bi ad of sw - in be li mo at th po wh a hi un re an in of ex ze is th it av di in th mo pr de .
we sh ho to cr a mo po ty of hi - de un fo an rb by ty th we an bi of an in se of bi un .
we th ap - ma th st si un wi no re li un an sh th th wo be th bi - na hi un fo re ob an co - in fa .
we al sh th th ca de wi la in va mu mo na th bi un .
fi we sh th th im mi - tu of un li mo ( ma & mo , 12 ) wi a hu nu of co us a mo - es nu of pa .
