we de a pr ap to th ta of pl ob , de - sc by hi - di ve or by pa di , in a lo - di sp in a wa th pr ne id .
a ga is ce on ea ob in th hi - di sp an th de un th ga ( or th gi di ) ar us to de a pr di ov al th po ne of th ob .
th ai of th em is to ap th di - ti as we as po wh th sa op is pe on th lo - di im of th ob .
a na co fu is a su of ku - le di , on pe ob , wh le to a si gr fo ad th po of th lo - di im - ag .
un ot di re me , th pr fr ma it ea to re ea ob by a mi of wi se lo - di im .
th al am ob , li th do co ve fo th wo ba , to ha ve cl to th im of bo ri an na wi fo th im of ou co to be lo cl to th of co co .
au di re is an im to op in ma le - in , bo as a pr st fo ot al ( e . g .
to re cl in si ) an as a go in it fo vi , in , co , et .
th ar ma wa to em ob , de by hi - di ve or by pa di - il , in a lo - di sp .
mu sc me ( 12 ) pr di be it , as me ei by eu di , so no sq of di , or sh gr pa as wi is ( 12 , 12 ) .
pr co - ne an ( pc ) nd a li pr of th or da wh ca as mu va as po .
ot me at to pr lo ge ( e . g .
ll ( 12 ) ) or as hi - di po wi a xe gr of po in th lo - di sp ( e . g .
se - or ma ( 12 ) or th pr ex gt ( 12 ) ) .
al of th me - od , ho , re ea hi - di ob to be as wi on a si lo in th lo - di sp .
th ma it di to un ma - to - on ma in wh a si am ob re be in se di lo in th lo - di sp .
in th pa we de a ne no of em ba on pr ne .
ou al , st ne em ( sn ) tr to pl th ob in a lo - di sp so as to op pr ne id , an ca be na ex to al mu di lo - d im of ea ob .
12 th ba sn al
sy ) , or th ma be co us th sc sq eu di ( af -
, ma be gi as pa of th pr de ( an ne no be
fo ea ob , , an ea po ne , , we st by co th as pr , , th wo pi as it ne :
it ) be tw hi - di po , ! " $# ! fo th va of ) ( wh we se wi lo of ge to be / pi po as it ne is a fu of th lo - di im 12 of al th
th ma th en of th di ov ne eq to ' + , . -
) so th in pr 12
in th lo - di sp we al us ga ne bu wi a xe va
is ei se by ha or ( as in so of ou ex ) fo by a bi se
is th ef nu of lo ne or pe an is ch by ha .
th ai of th em is to ma th tw di as we as po .
th is ac by mi a co fu wh is a su of ku - le di
ob an is gi by th ex :
sp is ch by ha ( mu le th th nu of ob ) .
be th or ( 12 ) an in ( 12 ) di ov ne fo ea ob : th di of th no th ma
is sm wa so of th pr ma in th
di so th is a co fo mo a bi di in th hi - di sp wi a sm di in th lo - di sp , th it is le th th co of mo a sm di wi a bi on .
in th re , sn is an im ov me li ll ( 12 ) or so ( 12 ) in wh wi se da - po ca be co as ne ne in th lo - di sp .
th in is th wh sn em lo di , it co fu cl en bo ke th im of ne ob ne an ke th im of wi se ob re fa ap .
th re is si :
di c is te be
vi th no te in eq .
12 , bu wh ha th ni in of a su of fo pu " to or pu it aw de on wh gi th gr , th ar ma po wa to mi
an we ha on ju be - gu th se fo th be me .
st de in wh al of th po ar ad in pa is in an ca ge st in po lo op .
ad ra ji th de wi ti nd mu be lo op an is th me we us fo th ex - pl in th pa , ev th it is st qu sl .
we in th em by pu al th lo - di im in ra lo ve cl to th or .
se ot mi me , in an th pe , ar di in se 12
is ob to be a ne mo or le of th de .
12 ap of sn to im an do co as a gr il of th ab of sn to mo hi - di , ne - ne re us on tw di , we ra th al on a co of bi of ha di an on a se of wo - au co ta fr th sc pr of ni co pa .
bo of th da ar li to ha in st in ma fe di th th ra di : 12 fo th ha di an 12 fo th au - wo co .
fr ea of th ve cl 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12
th va of th ga ar ea po
to be , we us a se of di bi fr th up da ( 12 ) wi ex in th ( - di ra pi im sp wa se to ac a pe of 12 in th di ov hi - di ne .
sn wa in by pu al th 12 "
in ra lo ve cl to th or an th wa tr us gr de wi an no .
al sn wa gi no in ab cl la , it qu cl se th di gr as sh in gu 12
fu , wi ea re of th lo - di sp , sn ha ar th da so th pr li or , sk an st - th te to va sm .
fo th em sh , th sn
co fu in eq .
12 ha a va of na wi a un di ac lo - na .
we al ap di ne , th co is
pr co an ( pc ) ( 12 ) to th sa da th pr on th rs tw pr co do no se cl ne as cl as sn be pc is mu mo in in ge th la se ri wh ca it to ju up so of th bo be si cl .
in th ex , we us di cl th do no ha ve si pa li 12 an 12 or 12 an 12
wh th ar mo cl an on tw av di , sn do no as cl se ve si pa .
we ha al ap sn to wo - do an wo - au ma ca fr th oc te of ni vo 12 - 12 pa ( 12 ) .
fi 12 sh a ma lo ni au - th in tw di .
ea of th 12 au wh pu mo th on pa
an co la na ar au wh pu si or mo pa in th pe .
wo co , su ac al ni pa .
co - au pa ga fr co ev to al au .
al wo oc in si or mo do we in , ex - ce fo st gi a vo si of 12
( th bo to ( 12 ) wa us fo
in ni vo .
12 - 12 is sh by a do at th po 12 pa of th pr - pr of th da . ) th )
fo by sn la re do we co as th no of th di be lo ag au we se to ac a lo pe of ( ne .
sn se to ha gr au by br ni el : ge
mo , su ve ma , ne , re le an vl al ha di lo re .
12 a fu mi ve of sn th cl pr fo of sn ma it ea to mo th co fu so th in of a si im , ea hi - di ob ca ha se di ve of it lo - di im .
th al ve ha mi pr
is a mi of th di in
th su to .
im - ve of ob ha lo lo - di ne di fo by ea of it im - ve ac al im - ve of a po ne :
an mi pr
in th mu - im mo , th de wi re to th im lo 12 ar st th de w . r . t th mi pr ar mo ea ex
fi 12 : em of ni au in tw di .
ea of th 12 au wh pu mo th on pa in ni vo .
12 - 12 is sh by a do at th lo - fo by th sn al .
la re do an co la na ar au wh pu si or mo pa in th pe .
th in in up le sh a bl of th cr bo ce po of th sp .
di be - tw au we co ba on sq eu di be ve of lo ag au wo co .
co - au pa ga fr co ev to al au .
al wo oc in si or mo do we in , ex fo st gi a vo si of 12
th ni te da is av at
is gi by
in te of , th pr th ve of pi ve of : th ef on of ch th mi pr fo ve of ob on th co , c , is
an ot .
th ef of ch
op on so we de by
as a pr - of - co , we re im a si mi ve in wh ev ob is re in th lo - di sp by ex tw co th
ra th op th mi pr di , it is ea to pe un
by a fo wh in li up to a th se .
be th th th fo re co . 12 we ra tw ex wi th si mi ve
th cl an ta ea pi at ra fr on of th tw pa .
af mi - of th no - hy ha si di lo fo th tw mi co .
mo , th mi co of ea hy al la in th re of th sp de to th cl of it tw pa an
th tw co ar pu to of sn .
we to a da co pi of ea of th di 12 , 12 , 12 an ad
hy di - pi th we ea co by pi ne ex of tw of
ar co to ha mi pr of of th hy an on
in de th lo ne , a st si of fo ea po up of gr , an us a co ji of
ma it po to ma a ci on a li wi lo an ne ne re or in an ne on .
po ne on cu po on th ci ca ma to a mi of tw po , on ne on en of th li an on ne th ot en .
ob , th lo of th cu on th tw - di ci ge de by wh pa of mi co sp rs du th st op .
fo ce op pa - et th co th ea wi wh tw mi co ca be pu ap , on a si cu in th ci is ma .
fo ot pa se , ho , th ci ma fr in tw or mo sm li - se , ea of wh is to co bu wh ma no be li to ea ot .
ne in th re de to th th cl .
fo th ex we us a pe of .
ou ve si mi ve of sn al
th ex wi hy di de th ev th mo pr mi ve of sn ca de wi am hi - di ob th ne to be ma to tw wi se re of th lo - di sp .
mo wo ne to be do be sn is ef en to co wi la ma of do - wo co , bu it is th on di re me we kn of th pr to tr ho se wi go ba to th or do to di ea oc of
12 us a th of
at th th fo wa
sp ha a na sc be th va of th ga us to de
na pe un le .
th lo - d is x ed at 12 .
12 pr op st ou cu me of re th sn co is to us st de wi ad ji th is sl re .
th pr qu go em , wh de th th sn co fu is wo mi , bu it ta se ho to nd a go em
th ti pe it co be re co by ig pa of po fo wh is xe du th le , it is na to sp it by re al en be a ce th wi ze an re -
fo ju da so we cl ne a be se al .
al fo of g ar sm .
si th ma
ma .
th pa fo wh bo an ar ze ca be ig fr gr ca if bo 12 g ar sm .
th ca in tu be de in lo as k - d tr , ba - tr an ad - tr , si th 12 de on on
pu ph ha at ex th sa co wh pe mu gr or el si us , fo ex , th fa mu me .
ti in th si of th tr se by us so ge da st su
in th mi ve of sn th ap to be an in wa of av lo op th do no in an th ji .
co tw co in th mi fo an ob th ar fa ap in th lo - di sp .
by ra th mi pr - ti of on an lo th mi pr of th ot , we ca mo pr ma fr on pa of th sp to an wi it ev ap at in lo .
th ty of pr wo se li a go wa to av lo op th ar be a cl of lo - di po mu mo th a ba re of th sp in or to re a be on .
ye an se me , wh we ha us wi so su on to pr , is to pr ex di in th lo - di sp bu to pe no - ze va on th di .
du th se , sn wi us th ex di to go ar lo - di ba bu as th pe on us th di is in , th wi ce to be us , ef co th em to th or di .
12 di an co pr ex sh th we ca nd go op by rs an th pe - ( us hi ji ) an on re th ji af th na pe ha be
si ce on ea hi - di po is ve bi so th th di ac ne is al un .
it is cl th in th hi va li , th co of to th sn co fu is ju as im fo di ne as fo is ve la , it ca be sh th sn is eq to mi th mi be sq di in th tw sp , pr al th sq di
re .
th ra th qu of wh sn is do wh th va , ) cl on .
wh ) fr an ob ar rs no by su of th an me ,
, of th ga -
is th nu of ob .
th mi is ve si to st fu us in no ve of md , an en us to un th la - va li of sn as a pa va of su pr .
we ar st in th re to me md an to pc .
sn ca al be se as an in sp ca of li re em ( lr ) in lr th da co of tr ( e . g .
co ha - mo vi ) an th ta is to pr th th te fr th ot tw .
lr le an n - di ve fo ea ob an an nx - di ma fo ea re .
to pr th th te in a tr , lr mu th ve re th rs te by th ma re th re an us th re ve as th me of a ga .
it pr di fo th th te is th de by th re de of al kn ob un th ga .
sn is ju a de ve of lr in wh th on re is ne an th ma re th re is th id .
in su , we ha pr a ne cr , st ne em , fo ma - pi hi - di po in a lo - di sp ba on st se of si ne .
un se - or ma , in wh th lo - di co - di ar xe to a gr an th hi - di en ar fr to mo , in sn th hi - di co ar xe to th da an th lo - di po mo .
ou me ca al be ap to ar pa di be ob if su ar av in of ( or in ad to ) hi - di ob .
th gr of th sn co fu ha an ap pu - pu pr in wh th fo ac on
12 to br it cl to po it is un - se an fu fr po it is ov - se
as it ne .
we ha sh re of ap th al to im an do co fo wh it se pl si ob ne in a lo - di sp wh ke di ob we se .
mo im , be of it pr fo , sn ha th ab to be ex - te to mi in wh am hi - di ob ( su as th wo ba ) ca ha se wi - se im in th lo - di sp .
ac we th th an re an se vi to ou po fo he su .
ya le pr di an ni te da .
th re wa fu by ns .
