giv a ^ne of sim com ele and som ent to be rep ,
str sch is to use one com ele for eac ent .
thi is cal a loc rep .
it is eas to und and eas to imp bec the str of the phy net mir the str of the kno it con .
thi rep des a dif typ of rep tha is les fam and har to thi abo tha loc rep .
eac ent is rep by a pat of act dis ove man com ele , and eac com ele is inv in rep man dif ent .
the str of thi mor com kin of rep doe not lie in its not con or its eas of imp in a con com , but rat in the eff wit whi it mak use of the pro abi of net of sim , neu - lik com ele .
eve rep sch has its goo and bad poi .
dis rep are no exc .
som des pro lik con - add mem and aut gen ari ver nat fro the use of pat of act as rep .
oth pro , lik the abi to tem sto a lar set of arb ass , are muc har to ach .
the bes psy evi for dis rep is the deg to whi the str and wea mat tho of the hum min .
^th res was sup by a gra fro the sys dev fou .
i tha jim and , dav ack dan bal , fra cri , sco fah , jer fel , chr lon - hig , don nor , ter sej , and tim sha for hel dis .
jay mcc and dav rum hel me ref and rew man of the ide pre her a sub rev ver of thi rep wil app as a cha by hin , mcc and rum in par dis pro : exp in the mic - str of cog , edi by mcc and rum )
sec 123 ana the eff of dis rep .
sin eac har uni is inv in enc man dif ite , the uni has a muc les spe " rec fie " tha it wou if the rep wer str loc - act in a sin uni rev far les abo whi ite is cur bei thi lac of spe at the sin uni lev , we sha sec tha dis rep arc som far mor eff at enc ite acc .
sec 123 dea wit the ass bet the for of a wor and its mea .
thi is a cas in whi dis rep app to be muc les sui tha loc one , bec the ass are pur arb .
the arc ver few und reg ( for mon - mor wor ) , and so the abi of dis rep to gen sim cau har int .
how , eve in thi cas dis rep can be sur eff and err fre .
sec 123 com dis and loc rep fro the sta of cre new con .
loc rep app to req a hom wit a sol iro , but the are way of avo thi .
loc rep als req the sys to mak a dis dec abo whe to cre a new con .
dis rep are mor fle , all con to be for gra by wei mod tha pro dif one old con ' int sev new one .
fin , sec 123 dis a dif
is oft avo by adv of dis rep .
hum kno is not jus a set of ite or pai of ite it is str .
at the ver lea , any hum - lik mem sys mus be abl to rep sch str in whi par con are pla par rol wit the who str .
the is a gul bet thi typ of art rep and the sta dis mem sch in whi a sub of the fea of an ite can giv ris to the rem fea .
bef exa the det arg in fav of dis rep , it is imp to be cle abo the sta wit an ove the of hum inf pro .
it wou be wro to vie dis rep as an alt to rep sch lik sem net or pro sys tha hav bee fou use in cog psy and art int .
it is mor fru to vie the as one way of imp the mor abs sch in par net , but wit one pro : dis rep giv ris to som pow and une eme pro .
the pro can the be tak as pri whe wor in a mor abs for .
so if one ass tha mor abs mod are imp in the bra usi dis rep , it is not unr to tre abi lik con - add mem , aut gen , or the sel of the rul tha bes fit the cur sit as pri ope , eve tho the is no eas way to
giv a net of sim com ele and som ent
to be rep ,
str sch is to use one com cle for eac ent .
thi is cal a loc rep .
it is eas to und and eas to imp bec the str of the phy net mir the str of the kno it con .
the nat and sim of thi rel bet kno and the har tha imp it hav led man peo to sim ass tha loc rep are the bes way to use par har .
the are , of cou , a wid var of mor com imp imp are onl wor con if the lea to inc eff or to int eme pro tha can be con ach usi loc rep .
is no one - to - one cor bet con and har uni , but
thi rep des one typ of rep tha is les fam and har to thi abo tha loc rep .
eac ent is rep by a pat of act dis ove man com ele , and eac com ele is inv in rep man dif ent .
the str of thi mor com kin of rep doe not lie in its not con or its eas of imp in a con com , but rat in the eff wit whi it mak use of the pro abi of net of sim , neu - lik com ele .
eve rep sch has its goo and bad poi .
dis rep are no exc .
som des pro ari ver nat fro the use of pat of act as rep .
oth pro , lik the abi to tem sto a lar set of arb ass , are muc har to ach .
as we sha see , the bes psy evi for dis rep is the deg to whi the str and wea mat tho of the hum min .
sec 123 int a way of thi abo mem tha is ver dif fro the con met in whi a mem is sto at a par loc and is ret by acc the loc .
the act of rem is vie as a con pro in whi a who ite is cre afr fro a fra , muc as din are cre in mus .
wha is sto is the rul of inf tha all thi con pro to occ .
sec 123 sho how thi typ of mem aut gen new acq kno so tha it can be app in oth , sim cir .
sec 123 pre a way of cla the var typ of dis mem tha hav bee des in the lit .
the cla is not exh and it doe not tak int con the lea sch tha are use for sto new mem .
how , it doe ser to emp the mai dec tha hav to be mad in des a dis mem sys .
imp the ope in con com .
thu , the con tha an ana of dis rep can mak to the hig - lcv for is to leg cer pow pri ope whi wou oth app to be an app to mag .
ano com sou of con is the ide tha dis rep arc som in con wit the ext evi for loc of fun in the bra ( lur , 123 ) .
a sys tha use dis rep sti req man dif mod for rep com dif kin of thi at the sam tim .
the dis rep occ wit the loc mod .
for exa , dif mod wou be dev to th ngs as dif as men ima and sen str , but two dif men ima wou cor to alt pat of act in the sam mod .
the rep adv in thi rep are loc at a glo sca but glo at a loc sca .
123 : mem as inf
peo hav a ver fle way of acc the mem : the can rec ite fro par des of the con ( nor & bob , 123 ) .
mor , the can do thi eve if som par of the par des arc wro .
man peo , for exa , can rap ret the ite tha sat the fol par des : it is an act , it is int , it is a pol .
thi kin of " con - add " mem is ver use and it is ver har to imp on a con com bec com sto eac ite at a par add , and to ret an ite the mus kno its add .
if all the com of des tha wil be use for acc are fre of err and are kno in adv , it is pos to use a met cal " has cod " tha qui yie the add of an ite whe giv par of its con .
in gen , how , con - add mem req a mas sea for the ite tha bes fit the par des .
the cen com pro in mem is how to mak thi sea eff .
whe the cue can con err thi is ver dif bec the fai to fit one of the cue can be use as a fil for qui eli ina ans .
dis rep pro an eff way of usi par har to imp bes - fit sea .
the bas ide is fai sim , tho it is qui unl a con com mem .
dif ite cor to dif pat of act ove the ver sam gro of har uni .
a par des act som of the uni , 123 int bet the uni the com the pat ,
whe a par des is pre it mus be tur int a par act pat .
thi is eas if the par des is sim a set of fea , but it is muc mor dif if the par des men rel to oth obj .
if , for exa , the sys is ask to ret joh ' s fat , it mus rep joh , but if joh and his fat are rep by mut exc pat of act in the ver sam gro of uni , it is har to rec how thi can be don wit pre the rep of joh ' s fat .
a dis sol to thi pro is des in sec 123
thu gen the ite tha bes fit the des .
a new ite is " sto " by mod the int bet the har uni so as to cre a new sta pat of act .
the mai dif fro a con com mem is tha pat whi are not act do not exi any .
hic can be re - cre bec the con str bet uni hav bee cha app , but eac con str is inv in sto man pat , so it is imp to poi to a par pla whe the mem for a par ite is sto .
one way of thi abo dis mem is in ter of a ver lar set of pla inf rul .
eac act uni rep a " mic - fea " of an ite , and the con stn sta for pla inf bet mic - fea .
any par pat of act of the uni wil sat som of the " mic - inf " and vio oth .
a sta pat of act is one tha vio die pla mic - inf les tha any of the nei pat .
a new sta pat can be cre by cha the inf rul so tha the new pat vio the les tha its nei .
thi vie of mem mak it cle tha the is no sha dis bet gen mem and pla rec .
a gen mem is a pat tha is sta bec the inf rul wer mod whe it occ bef .
a " con " is a pat tha is sta bec of the way the inf rul hav bee mod to sto sev dif pre pat , and so far as the sub is con , thi may be ind fro the rea thi .
the blu of die dis bet ver rec and con or pla rec see to be cha of hum mem ( bar , 123 nei , 123 ) .
the rec nat of hum mem is sur onl bec it con wit the sta met we use .
we ten to thi tha a mem sys sho wor by sto lit cop of ite and the ret the sto cop , as in a fil cab or a typ com dat .
suc sys are not
if we vie mem as a pro whi con a pat of act tha rep the mos pla ite whi is con wit the giv cue , we nee som gua tha it wil con on the rep of the ite tha bes fit the des , tho it mig be tol to som get a goo but not opt fit .
it is eas to ima thi hap , but it is har to mak it act wor .
one rec app to thi pro is to use sta mec to ana the beh of gro of int sto uni ( hin , sej & ack , 123 ) .
the ana gua tha the bet an ite fit the des , the mor lik it is to be pro as the sol .
123 : sim and gen
whe a new ite is sto , the mod in the con str mus not wip out exi ite .
thi can be ach by mod a ver lar num of wei ver sli .
if the mod arc all in the dir tha hel the pat tha is bei sto , the wil be a con eff : the tot hel for the int pat wil be the sum of all die sma sep mod .
for unr pat , how , the wil be ver lit tra of eff bec som of the mod wil hel and som wil hin .
ins of all the sma mod con tog , the wil mai can out .
thi kin of sta rea und mos dis mem mod , but the arc man var of the bas ide ( see hin and and , 123 ) .
it is pos to pre int alt by usi ort pat of act for the var ite to be sto .
how , thi eli one of the mos int pro of dis rep : the aut giv ris to gen .
if the tas is sim to rem acc a set of unr ite , the gen eff are har and arc cal int .
but gen is nor a it all us to dea eff wit sit tha are sim but not ide to pre exp sit .
peo are goo at gen new acq kno .
if you lea a new fac abo an obj , you exp abo oth sim obj ten to cha .
if , for exa , you lea tha chi lik oni you wil pro rai you est of the pro tha gor lik oni .
in a net tha use rrh new kno abo chi dis rep , thi kin of gen is aut .
is inc by mod som of the con str so as to alt the cau eff of the dis pat of act tha rep chi .
123 the mod aut cha the cau eff of all sim act pat .
so if the rep of gor is a sim act pat ove the sam set of uni , its cau eff wil be cha in a sim way .
the ver sim dis sch wou rep the con of oni and the con of chi by alt act pat ove the ver sam set of uni .
it wou the be har to rep chi and oni at the sam tim .
thi pro can be sol by usi sep mod for eac pos rol of an ite wit a lar str .
chi , for exa , are the " age " of the lik and so a pat rep chi occ the " age " mod and the pat rep oni occ the " pat "
the int str of thi pat may als cha .
the is alw a cho bet cha the wei on the out con and cha the pat its so tha dif out con bec rel .
cha in the pat its alt its sim to oth pat and the alt how gen wil occ in fut .
it is gen muc har to fig out how to cha the pat tha rep an ite tha it is to fig out how to cha the out con so tha a par pat wil hav the des eff on ano par of the net .
mod ( sec fig 123 ) .
kac mod can hav alt pat for all the var ite , so thi sch doe not inv loc rep of ite .
wha is loc is the rol .
if you sub lea tha gib and ora do not lik oni you est of the pro tha gor lik oni wil fal , tho it may sti rem hig tha it was ini .
obv , the com of fac sug tha lik oni is a pec qui of chi .
a sys tha use dis rep wil aut arr at tli con , pro tha the alt pat tha rep the var ape arc rel to one ano in a par way tha is som mor spe tha jus bei sim to one ano : tho nee to be a par of eac com pat tha is ide for all die var ape .
in oth wor , the gro of uni use for the dis rep mus be div int two sub - gro , and all the var ape mus be rep by the sam pat in the fir sub - gro , but by dif pat in the sec sub - gro .
the pat of act ove the fir sub rep the typ of the ite , and the pat ove the sec sub - gro rep add " mic - fea " tha dis eac ins of the typ fro the oth ins
whe the sys lea a new fac abo chi , it usu has no way of kno whe the fac is tru of all ape or is jus a pro of chi .
the obv str is dic to mod the str of the con ema fro all the act uni , so tha the new kno wil be par a pro of ape in gen , and par a pro of wha fea dis chi fro oth ape .
if it is sub lea tha oth ape do not lik oni , mod wil be mad in die rev dir so d*a the inf abo oni is no lon ass wit the sub tha is com to all ape .
the kno abo oni wil the be res to the sub - pat tha dis chi fro oth ape .
if it had tur out tha gib and ora had als lik oni , the mod in the wei ema fro the sub - pat rep ape wou hav rei one ano , and the kno wou hav bec ass wit the sub - pat sha by all ape rat tha wit the pat tha dis one ape fro ano .
a ver sim ver of thi the of gen has bee imp in a com sim ( hin , 123 ) .
it wor , but as wit all sim , man det and arb dec had to be mad to pro a wor sys .
the is an obv gen of the ide tha the rep of an ite is com of two par , one tha rep the typ and ano tha rep the way in whi thi par ins dif fro
123 sub of the mic - fea can be con - od to def a typ one sub mig be com to all ape , and a dif ( but
ove ) sub mig be com to all pet .
thi all an ite to be an ins of man dif typ sim .
fig 123 : in thi sim sch the are two dif mod , one of whi rep the age and the oth the pat .
to inc the fac tha chi lik oni , the pat for chi in one mod mus be ass wit the pat for oni in the oth mod .
rel oth tha " lik " can be imp by hav a thi gro of uni who pat of act rep the rel .
thi pat mus the " gat " the int bet the age and pat gro .
hin ( 123 ) des one way of doi thi gat by usi a fou gro of uni .
oth of the sam typ .
alm all typ are the ins of mor gen typ , and thi can be imp by div the pat tha rep the typ int two sub - pat , one for the mor gen typ of whi thi typ is an ins , and the oth for die fea dia dis dii par typ fro oth ins of the sam gen typ .
thu die rel bet a typ and an ins can be imp by the rel bet a set of uni and a lar set tha inc it .
not tha the mor gen the typ , the sma the set of uni use to enc it .
as the num of ter in an des get sma , the cor exl set get lar .
in a net tha use loc rep , it is les obv how to do gen .
giv tha chi lik oni , the obv way of inc the new kno is by cha the str of con bel to the chi uni .
but dii doe not aut cha con tha bel to die gor uni .
so ext pro mus be inv to imp gen in a loc sch .
one com use met is to all act to spr fro a loc uni to oth uni tha rep sim con ( qui , 123 col and lof , 123 ) .
the whe one con uni is act , it wil par act its nei and the so any kno sto in the con ema fro tii nei wil be par eff .
man var of thi bas ide hav bee tri ( lev , 123 mcc , 123 fah , 123 ) and hav bee sho to be qui eff .
it is har to mak a cle dis bet sys whi use loc rep plu spr act and sys whi use dis rep .
in bot cas die res of act a con is uia man dif har uni are act .
the mai dif is dia in one cas the is a par ind har uni tha act as a " han " whi mak it eas to att pur con pro lik the nam of the con .
it is int obv tha it is har to att an arb nam to a dis pat tha it is to att it to a sin uni .
as we sha sec in sec 123 , suc int are not to
123 : var of dis mem
sin the 123 ' s , the hav bee a lar num of com sim of dis mem sch .
man dif var of the sam bas ide hav bee dis ind .
thi sec att to int som ord int the pro of mod by cla the in a bin tre wit the mos bas dis nea the roo ( see fig 123 ) .
the tru spa of mod has a muc ric str of sim and dif tha can be exp by a tre , but it ' s a con sim .
man of the dis dea wit the nat of the inp - out fun use for the ind uni .
a ful dis of the var fun wil app in rum , hin and mcc ( in pre ) .
sto by mod
bet har uni .
sto by inc a vec tha has onr as man com as
a sin ite .
non - lin dec )
wil et
act lev j
. act lev j
and & moz , 123
dec fun \
l act lev j
' dis pul .
& ack , 123
hop , 123 ft
fig 123 : a cla of som dis mem mod .
a few exa of eac typ of mod are giv .
123 : coa cod
thi sec con the num of uni dia arc req to enc fea acc .
the cen res is a sur one .
if you wan to enc fea acc usi as few uni as pos , it pay to use uni dia arc ver coa tun , so dia eac fea act man dif uni and eac uni is act by man dif fea .
a spe fea is tii enc by a pat of act in man uni rad tha by a sin act uni , so coa cod is a for of dis rep .
to kee die mat sim , we sha ass tha the uni hav onl two val , on and off . 123 we sha als ign the dyn of the sys bec the que of int , for the tim bei , is how man uni it tak to enc fea wit a giv acc .
we sta by con the kin of fea tha can be com spe by giv a typ ( e . g .
lin - seg , cor , dot ) and the val of som con par dia dis it fro oth fea of the sam typ ( e . g .
pos , ori , siz . ) for eac typ of fea the is a spa of pos ins .
eac con par def a dim of the fea spa , and eac par fea cor to a poi in the spa .
for fea lik dot in a pla , the spa of pos fea is two - dim .
for fea lik sto , ori edg - seg in 123 - d spa , the fea spa is six - dim .
we sha sta by con 123 - d fea spa and the gen to hig dim .
sup tha we wis to rep the pos of a sin dot in a pla , and we wis to ach hig acc wit usi too man uni .
we def the acc of an enc sch to be the num of dif enc tha are gen as the dot is mov a sta dis thr the spa .
one goo enc sch wou be to div the uni int an x gro and a y gro , and ded eac uni to enc a par x or y int as sho in fig 123
a giv dot wou the be enc by act in two uni , one fro eac gro , and the acc wou be pro to the num of uni use .
unf , if two dot hav to be enc at the sam tim the met bre dow .
the two dot wil act two uni in eac gro , and die wil be no way of tel , fro the act uni , whe the dot wer at ( xl , yl ) and ( x12 , y12 ) or at ( xl , y12 ) and ( x12 , yl ) .
thi is cal the bin pro .
it ari bec the rep doe not spe wha goe wit wha .
in a con com it is eas to sol the bin pro .
we sim cre two rec in the com mem .
eac rec con a pai of coo tha go tog as coo of one dot , and
123 arg app wit mul - val act lev , but it is imp not to all act le - cls to hav arb pre ,
bec thi mak it pos to rep an inf amo of inf in a sin act lev .
o 123 o o o o o
fig 123 : a sim way of usi two gro of bin uni to enc the pos ot a poi in a 123 - d spa .
the act uni in the x and y gro rep the x and y coo .
o o 123 o o o 123 o
fig 123 : whe two poi mus be enc at the sam tim , it is imp to tel whi x coo goe wit whi y coo .
the bin inf is enc by the fac tha the two coo val arc sit in the sam rec ( whi usu mea the arc sit in nei mem loc ) .
in ' par net , it is muc har to sol the bin pro .
one app is to set asi , in adv , one uni for eac pos com of x and y val .
thi amo to cov the pla wit a lar num of sma , non - ove zon , and ded a uni to eac zon .
a dot is dic rep by act in a sin uni so dii is a loc rep .
it is muc les eff tha die pre sch bec die acc is onl pro to the squ roo of die num of uni .
in gen , for a k - dim fea spa , die loc enc yie an acc pro to the k th roo of die num of uni .
ach hig acc is thu ver exp .
the use of one uni for eac dis fea may be a rea enc if a ver lar num of fea are pre on eac occ , so tha a lar fra of the uni are act .
how , it is a ver ine enc if onl a ver sma fra of the pos fea are pre at onc .
the ave amo of inf con by the sta of a bin uni is 123 bit if the uni is act hal the tim , and it is muc les if the uni is onl rar act .
123 it wou the be mor eff to use an enc in whi a lar fra of the uni wer act at any mom .
thi can be don if we aba the ide dia eac dis fea is rep by act in a sin uni
sup we div the spa int lar , ove zon and ass a uni to eac zon .
for sim , i sha ass dia the zon arc cir , tha the cen hav a uni ran dis thr the spa , and tha all the zon use by a giv enc sch hav the sam rad .
the que of int is how acc a fea is enc as a fun of the rad of the zon .
if we hav a giv num of uni at our dis is it bet to use lar zon so tha eac fea poi fal in man zon , or is it bet to use sma zon so tha eac fea is rep by act in few but mor fin tun uni ?
the acc is pro to the num of dif enc tha are gen as we mov a fea poi alo a str lin fro one sid of the spa to the oti .
eve tim the lin cro the bou of a zon , the enc of the fea poi cha bec the act of the uni cor to tha zon cha .
so the num of dis fea alo the lin is jus twi the num of zon tha the lin pen .
123 the lin pen eve zon who cen lie wit one rad of the lin ( see fig 123 ) .
thi num is pro to the rad of the zon , r , and it is als pro to the num , n .
hen the
amo of inf con by a uni tha has a pro of p of bei on is
pro ari if you ent and lea a zon wit cro oth zon bor in bet .
you rev to the sam enc as
bef .
thi eff is neg if the zon are den eno for the to be man zon con eac poi in the spa .
fig 123 : the num of zon bou tha are cut by the lin is pro to the num of zon cen wit one zon rad of the lin .
acc , a is rel to the num of zon and to the rad as fol :
a a nr
in gen , for a k - dim spa , the num of zon who cen lie wit one rad of a lin thr the spa is pro to the vol of a k - dim hyp - cyl of rad r .
thi vol is equ to the len of the cyl ( whi is fix ) tim its k - 123 dim cro - sec are whi is pro to r* " 123
hen , the acc is giv by :
so , for exa , dou the rad of the zon inc by a fac of 123 the lin acc wit whi a six - dim fea lik a sto ori 123 - d edg is rep .
the int ide tha lar zon lea to slo rep is ent wro , bec dis rep hol inf muc mor eff tha loc one .
eve tho eac act uni is les spe in its mea , the com of act uni is far mor spe .
123 not als tha wit coa cod the acc is pro to the num of uni , whi is muc bet tha bei pro to the k* roo of the num .
uni tha res to com fea in ret map in vis cor oft hav fai lar rec fie .
thi is oft int as the fir ste on the way to a tra inv rep .
how , it may be tha *he fun of the lar fie is not to ach tra inv but to pin acc whe the fea is !
lim on coa cod
so far , onl the adv of coa cod hav bee men , and its pro asp hav bee ign .
the arc a num of lim whi cau the coa cod str to bre dow whe die " rec fie " bec too lar .
one obv lim occ whe the fie bec com in siz to the who spa .
thi lim is gen of lit int bec oth , mor sev , pro ari bef the rec fie bec thi lar .
coa cod is onl eff whe ti^ . c fea tha mus be rep arc rel spa .
if man fea - poi are cro tog , eac rec fie wil con man fea and the act pat in the coa cod uni wil not dis bet man alt com of fea poi .
123 thu the is a res / acc tra - off .
coa cod can giv hig acc for the par of fea pro tha fea arc wid spa so tha hig res is not als req .
as a rou rul of thu , the dia of the rec fie sho be of the sam ord as the spa bet sim pre fea - poi
the fac tha coa cod onl wor if the fea are spa sho be uns , giv tha its adv ove a loc enc is tha it use die inf cap of die uni mor eff by mak eac uni act mor oft .
if the fea are so den dia the uni wou be act for abo hal die tim usi a loc enc , coa cod can onl mak dii wor .
a sec maj lim on the use of coa cod ste fro die fac tha die rep of a fea mus be use to aff oth rep .
the is no poi usi coa cod if die fea hav to be rec as act in fin tun uni bef the can hav the app aff on oth rep .
if we ass dia the eff of a dis rep is the sum of the eff of the ind act uni tha con the rep , the is a str lim on the cir und whi coa cod can be use eff .
nea fea wil be enc by sim set of act uni , and so the wil ine ten to hav sim eff .
bro spe , coa cod is onl use if the req eff of a fea is the ave of die req eff of its nei .
at a fin eno sca thi is nea alw tru for spa tas .
the sca at whi it bre dow det an upp lim on the siz of the rec fie .
123 lf the uni are all to hav int act lev tha ref the num of fea poi fal wit the fie , a few nea
poi can be tol , but not man .
123 123 is int tha man of the geo vis ill ill int bet fea at a dis muc gre tha the jnc in the sub kno of the pos of a fea .
thi is jus wha wou be exp if coa cod is bei use to rep com fea acc .
ano lim is tha whe coa cod rep int , the is a ten for the coa to inc .
to cou dii ten , it is pro nec to hav lat inh ope wit eac rep
coa cod and fou ana
the is an app ana bet coa cod and fou ana .
con , for exa , the pro of enc the pre tim at whi a cli occ usi fou ana .
a sin cli of noi con pow at man dif fre .
to enc its pre tem loc it is suf to enc die low fre inf acc .
the hig fre are onl nee for res clo spa cli .
a sta way to ext the low fre inf is to pas die cli dir a low - pas fil whi blu it in tim and the to sam the blu cli at reg int .
the use of lar rec fie in coa cod is the ana of the blu pro , and the cen poi of the fie arc die ana of die sam poi .
the res tha the rec fie dia mus be com wit the spa bet fea is the ana of die sam the whi sta tha the lin sep bet sam poi mus not exc hal the wav of the sho wav com all thr the blu pro .
the ana is not per , how , bec a fou enc is nor use to rep a con dis rat tii a num of dis fea poi , and eac coe in die fou enc is a rea - val num rad tha a set of bin act lev .
coa cod and con dat - str
in a con com , any pie of the gen pur mem can be use for any dat - str .
thi all the com to get by wit muc les mem tha wou be req if it had to set asi , in adv , a spe pie of mem for eac pos dat - str .
the eco is pos bec , on any one occ , onl a ver sma fra of all the pos dat - str nee to be pre , so the ver sam pie of mem can be use for dif dat - str on dif occ .
in a net in whi the kno is sto in the con str , it is muc har to mak uni sta for dif thi on dif occ .
to be eff as a rep , act in a uni mus hav the rig cau eff on oth rep , so unl the str of its out con can be cha rap , the " mea " of a uni can eas be cha .
coa cod all the sam uni to be use to hel rep man dif fea at dif tim wit cha the con str .
the per of the rec fie is wha doe the wor of
thi iss req fur res .
car up the spa of pos fea int sma zon .
123 on any one occ , mos of the per of a giv uni wil be irr bec the oth act uni wil alr hav loc the fea fai acc and so it wil be kno not to be nea mos of the per .
how , tha par of tin per whi int the res reg of unc lef by the oth uni wil act to inc the acc , bec the sta of the uni wil ind whe the fea fal ins or out of thi par of the per ( sec fig 123 ) .
on dif occ , dif par of the per wil be doi the wor .
thi abi to use the sam uni in dif way on dif occ is a sma ste tow the fle use of rep cap tha mak con com so pow .
if a uni has a rec fie wit a lar per , it may do dif wor on dif occ .
the mar con of the uni in pin dow the pre par of a fea poi dep on the ran of unc lef by the oth uni .
qui dif par of the per of uni a are rel on dif occ .
one obv wea of coa cod is tha uni who fie hav a lar ove ten to hav hig cor sta .
thi is ine .
to max the acc , the ind uni sho hav unc rec fie , so tha act in one uni pro no inf abo act in oth uni .
thi is jus wha is ach by the sta bin rep of con qua .
unf , bin rep are dif to use in sys whe all the kno is in the con bec the rec fie of the lea sig dig is ver dis , whi usu mak it har to sto use kno in the str of the con ema fro tha uni
^th is why the acc is pro to the mag of the per .
gen to non - con spa
the pri und coa cod can be gen to non - con spa by thi of a set of ite as die equ of a rec fie .
a loc rep use one uni for eac pos ite .
a dis rep use a uni for a set of ite , and it imp enc a par ite as the int of die set tha cor to the act uni .
in die dom of spa fea dic is gen a ver str reg : set of fea wit sim par val nee to hav sim eff on oth rep .
coa cod is eff bec it all thi reg to be exp in die con str .
in oth dom , the reg are dif , but the eff arg arc the sam : it is bet to dev a uni to a set of ite tha to a sin ite , pro the set is cho in suc a way tha mem of die set imp som abo mem of odi set .
thi imp can the be cap as a con str .
it is , of cou , a ver dif sea pro to dec whi par set of ite sho cor to ide , a set sho be cho so dia mem of thi set has str imp for mem of oth set dia arc als enc by ind uni .
the abi to dis suc set is cru if dis rep arc to be eff , but thi rep is not con wit the lea pro .
the int rea is ref to hin , scj & ack ( 123 ) whe a mcd of fin goo set is des in det .
123 : imp an arb map bet two dom
thi sec sho how a dis rep in one gro of uni can cau an app dis rep in ano gro of uni .
we con die pro of imp an arb pai bet rep in the two gro , and we tak as an exa the ass bet the vis for of a wor and its mea .
the rea for con an arb map is tha thi is the cas in whi loc rep see mos hel .
if dis rep are bet eve in thi cas , the the are cer bet in cas whe the are und reg tha can be cap by reg int bet uni in one gro and uni in ano .
if we res our to mon - mor wor , the map fro str of gra ont mea app to be arb in the sen tha kno wha som str of gra mea doc not hel one pre wha a new str mea .
123 thi arb in the map fro gra to mea is wha
123 123 for mon - mor wor the may be par fra tha hav ass mea .
for exa , wor sta wit msn m usu mea som unp to do wit the lip or nos ( sne , sna , sni ) , and wor wit lon vow are mor lik to sta for lar slo thi tha wor wit sho vow ( geo lak , per com ) .
muc of lew car ' s poe rel on suc eff .
giv pla to mod tha hav exp wor uni .
it is obv tha arb map can be imp if the arc suc uni .
a gra str act exa one wor uni , and thi act wha mea we wis to ass wit it ( sec fig 123 ) .
the sem of sim gra str can the be com ind bec the arc med by sep wor uni .
the is non of the aut gen tha is cha of dis rep .
it is not at all obv tha arb map can be imp in a sys whe the int lay of uni enc the wor as a dis pat of act ins of as act in a sin loc uni .
the dis alt app to hav a ser dra .
the eff of a pat of act on oth rep is the com res of the ind eff of the act uni in the pat .
so sim pat ten to hav sim eff .
it app tha we are not fre to mak a giv pat hav wha eff we wis on the mea rep , wit the alt the eff tha oth pat hav .
thi kin of int app to mak it dif to imp arb map fro dis rep of wor ont mea rep .
i sha now sho tha the int are wro , and tha dis rep of wor can wor per wel and may eve be mor eff tha sin
fig 123 sho a thr - lay sys in whi gra / pos uni fee int " wor - set " uni whi , in tur , fee int " sem " or " sem " uni .
for sim , we sha ass tha eac uni is eit act ( the ass can be rel wit or ina , and tha the is no fee or cro - tal .
the arg ) .
a wor - set uni is act whe gra / pos uni cod a wor in a par set the set cou be all the fou - let wor sta wit " he " , for exa , or all the wor con at lea two " t m , s .
all tha is req is tha it is pos to dec whe a wor is in the set by app a sim tes to the act gra / pos uni .
so , for exa , the set of all wor mea " nic " is not all as a wor - set 123 ret to fig 123 , the que is whe it is pos to imp an arb set of ass bet gra / pos vec and sem vec whe the wor - set uni are eac act by mor tha one wor .
it wil be suf to con jus one of the man pos spe mod .
let us ass tha an act wor - set uni pro pos inp to all the sem uni tha occ in the mea of any wor in die wor - set let us als ass tha eac sem uni has a var thr tha is dyn adj to be jus
the pat of
mod of thi typ , and clo rel var , hav bee ana by wil ( 123 ) , dob ( per com ) , and by
dav zip ( unp wor tal , 123 )
123 123 is an imp ass tha wor mea can be rep as set of sem .
thi is a con iss .
the app to be a gul bet the com vie in whi a mea is a set of fea and the str vie in whi the ;ts rel to oth mea .
sec 123 dis one way of int the mea of a wor can onl be def in ter of two vie by all art rep to be bui out of a num of dif set of act fea .
fig 123 : a fra of a thr lay net .
the bot lay con uni tha rep par gra in par pos wit the wor .
the mid lay con uni tha rec com wor , and the top lay con uni tha rep sem fea of the mea of the wor .
thi net use loc rep of wor in the mid lay .
fig 123 : the top and bot lay are the sam as in fig 123 , but the mid lay use a mor dis rep .
eac uni in thi lay can be act by the gra rep of any one of a who set of wor .
the uni the pro inp to eve sem fea tha occ in the mea of any of the wor tha act it .
onl tho wor - set con the wor " cat " are sho in thi exa .
not tha the onl sem fea whi rec inp fro all the wor - set are the sem fea of cat
sli les tha the num of act wor - set uni .
onl sem uni tha are rec inp fro eve
act wor - set uni wil dic bec act .
all the sem of the cor wor wil be act , bec eac of the sem wil occ in the mea of one of the wor in the act wor - set .
how , add sem may als be act bec , jus by cha , dic may rec inp fro eve act wor - set uni .
for a sem to rec les inp tha its thr , the mus be at lea one act wor - set tha doe not con any wor whi has die sem as par of its mea .
for eac act wor - set the pro , / , of dii hap is :
/ = ( l - p ) < * - d
whe p is the pro of wor tha con the sem and w is the num of wor in die wor - set of the wor - set uni the rea for the ter w - 123 is tha the sem is alr ass not to be par of the mea of the cor wor , so the are onl w - 123 rem wor tha cou hav it in the mea .
ass dia whe a wor is cod at die gra lev it act u uni at the wor - set lev .
eac sem tha is not par of the wor ' s mea has a pro / of fai to rec inp fro eac wor - set uni .
the pro , / tha all of die wor - set uni wil pro inp to it is the
/ = ( l - 123 "
by ins , thi pro of a " fal pos " sem red to zer whe w is 123
tab 123 sho the val of / for var com of val of p , w , and w .
not tha if p is ver sma , / c an rem neg eve if w is qui lar .
thi mea tha dis rep in whi eac wor - set uni par in the rep of man wor , do not lea to err if the sem fea are rel spa in die sen dia eac wor mea con onl a sma fra of the tot set of sem .
so the wor - set uni can be fai non - spe pro the sem uni are fai spe ( not sha by too man dif wor mea ) .
som of the ent in the tab mak it cle tha for som val of p , the can be a neg cha of err eve tho the num of wor - set uni is con les tha the num of wor ( the rat of wor to wor - set uni is w / u ) .
the exa des abo mak man sim ass .
for exa , eac wor - set uni is
123 x 123 ~ 123 123 x 123 " 123
123 x 123 123 ~ n 123 x 123 " 123 123 x 123 " 123
123 x 123 " ' 123 x 123 123 " 123
. 123 123 x . 123 123 x
tab 123 : the pro , f , of a fal pos sem as a fun of the num of act wor - set uni per wor , u , the num of wor in eac wor - set , w , and the pro , p , of a sem bei par of a wor mea .
ass to be con to eve rel sem uni if any of the con wer mis , we cou not aff to giv the sem uni a thr equ to the num of act wor set uni .
to all for mis con we cou low the thr , but thi wou inc the fal - pos err rat .
alt , we cou mak eac wor - set uni vet the sem tha do not occ in any of its wor .
thi sch is far mor rob aga mis con , bec the abs of one vet can be tol if the are oth vet ( ver dob , per com ) .
the are two mor sim ass bot of whi lea to an und of the eff of dis rep for the arb map tas .
fir , the cal ass tha the is no fin - tun pro for inc som wei and dec oth to imp per in the cas whe the mos fre err occ .
sec , the cal ign cro - tal amo the sem .
if eac wor - mea is a fam sta pat of sem the wil be a str " cle - up " eff whi ten to sup err sem as soo as the pat of act at the sem lev is
suf clo to the fam pat for a par wor - mea .
int amo the sem als ' pro an exp for the abi of a sin gra str ( e . g .
" ban " ) to eli two qui dif mea .
the " bot - up " eff of the act wor - set uni hel bot set of sem , but as soo as " top - dow " fac giv an adv to one mea , the sem in the oth mea wil be sup by com int at the sem lev ( kaw and and , 123 ) .
as soo as the is cro - tal amo the sem uni and fin tun of ind wei to avo fre err , the rel str - for pro ana giv abo t tea dow .
to giv the cro - tal tim to cle up the out , it h nec to use an ite pro ins of the sim " str - thr " pro in whi eac lay com det die sta of all the uni in the sub lay in a sin , syn ste .
sys con cro - tal , fee , and asy pro ele are pro mor rea as mod of the bra , but the are gen ver har to ana .
how , the is a spe sub of the mor com sys tha beh in a tra way and is cap of int kin of sea and lea beh ( hin , sej & ack , 123 ) .
it use pro ele tha are inh sto .
sur , the use of sto ele mak the net bet at per sea , bet at lea , and eas to ana .
a sim net of thi kin is use to ill som of die cla abo die abi to " cle up " the out by usi int amo sem uni , and the abi to avo err by fin tun the app wei .
the net con 123 gra uni , 123 wor - set uni , and 123 sem uni .
the are no dir con bet gra and sem uni , but eac wor - set uni is con to all the gra and sem uni .
the gra uni are div int thr set of ten , and eac thr - let wor has one act uni in eac gro of ten ( uni can onl hav act lev of 123 or 123 ) .
the " mea " of a wor is cho at ran by sel eac sem uni to be act wit a pro of 123 .
the net sho in fig 123 has lea to ass 123 dif gra str wit the cho mea .
eac wor - set uni is inv in the rep of man wor , and eac wor inv man
hin & sej ( in pre ) des the det of the lea pro whi was use to cre thi net and the sea pro whi was use to set on a set of act sem whe giv the gra inp her we sim sum the mai res of the sim .
aft a lon per of lea , the net was abl to pro the cor pat of sem 123 of the tim whe giv a gra inp rem of any one of the wor - set uni aft the lea typ cau a sli ris in the err rat for sev dif wor rat tha the com los of one wor
fig 123 : a com dis tha sho all the con str in a thr - lay net whi can map 123 dif gra str int the cor col of act sem fea .
the top 123 row of the dis arc the sem uni , the mid two row are the int uni , and the bot thr row arc the gra uni .
wit eac uni , the bla or whi blo sho the str of its con to oth uni .
whi blo are pos con , bla are neg , and the mag of a blo rep uie str of the
con .
fhe rel pos of a blo wit a uni ind the rel pos wit the who net of the oth uni inv in the con ( it is as if eac uni con a lit map of the who net ) .
all con str are the sam in bot dir , so eve str is rep twi in thi dis .
in the pos whe the con bet a uni and its wou be dis , the thr of the uni is sho ( bla mea a pos thr )
123 , 123 tes wit a mis wor - set uni tii wer 123 err .
som of dic con of one or two mis or ext sem , but 123 of the err wer exa die pat of sem of som oth wor .
thi is a res of the coo int amo die sem uni .
if die inp com fro die wor - set uni is noi , die cle up eff may set on a sim but inc mea .
thi eff is rem of a phe cal dee dys whi occ wit cer kin of bra dam in adu .
whe sho a wor and ask to rea it , the sub wil som say a dif wor wit a ver sim mea .
the inc wor som has a ver dif sou and spe .
for exa , whe sho the wor " pea " the sub mig say " apr " ( see col & pat ( 123 ) for mor inf abo acq dys ) .
sem err of thi kin see biz bec it see as if the sub mus hav acc die lex ite pea in ord to mak die scm rel err , and if he can get to die lex ite why can ' t he say it ? ( the sub may kno and be abl to say the wor dia the mis ) .
dis rep all us to dis wit the rig dis bet acc a wor and not acc it .
in a net tha has lea the wor " pea " , the gra rep of " pea " wil cau app the rig inp to the sem uni , and int at the sem lev can die cau exa the pat of sem for apr .
ano psy int eff occ whe die net rel aft it has bee dam .
the net was dam by add noi to eve con dia inv a wor - set uni .
thi red the per fro 123 cor to 123 .
123 the net was the ret and it exh ver rap rel , muc fas dia its ori rat of lea whe its per was 123 cor .
thi rap rec ' was pre by a geo arg whi sho tha the is som spe abo a set of con str tha is gen by add noi to a nea - per set the res set is ver dif fro oth set of con str tha exh die sam per , ( see hin & sej , in pre ,
an eve mor sur eff occ if a few of the wor are omm fro the ret .
the err rat for the wor is sub red as the ret pro , eve tho the oth gra - sem pai hav no int rel to the bec all the pai wer sel ran .
the " spo " rec of wor tha the net is not sho aga is a res of the use of dis rep .
all the wei are inv in enc the sub of the wor tha are sho dur ret , and so the add noi ten to be rem fro eve wei .
a sch tha use a sep uni for eac wor wou not beh in thi way , so one can vie spo rec of unr ite as a
123 123 t he err rat was 123 rat tha 123 in thi exa bec
eff had les tim to set on the opt out
the net was for to res fas , so the coo
qua sig of dis rep .
123 : cre new con
any pla sch for rep kno mus be cap of lea nov con tha cou not be ant at the tim die net was ini wir up .
a sch dia use loc rep mus fir mak a dis dec abo whe to for a new con , and the it mus fin a spa har uni tha has sui con for imp the con inv .
fin suc a uni may be dif if we ass tha , aft a per of ear dev , new kno is inc by cha the str of die exi con rat dia by gro new one .
if eac uni onl has con to a sma fra of the oth , the wil pro not be any uni tha are con to jus the rig oth one to imp a new con .
for exa , in a col of a mil uni eac con at ran to ten tho oth , the cha of the bei any uni tha is con to a par set of 123 oth is onl one in a mil .
in an att to res loc rep fro thi pro , sev cle sch hav bee pro tha use two cla of uni .
the uni dia cor to con arc not dir con to one ano .
ins , the con are imp by ind pat thr sev lay of int uni ( fah , 123 fcl , 123 ) .
thi sch wor bec die num of pot pat thr the int lay far exc the tot num of phy con .
if the are k lay of uni eac of whi has a fan - out of n con to ran sel uni in the fol lay , the are n k pot pad .
the is alm cer to be a pat con any two con - uni , and so the int uni alo thi pat can be ded to con dio two con - uni .
how , the sch end up hav to ded sev int uni to eac eff con , and onc the ded has occ , all but one of the act con ema fro eac int uni are was .
the use of sev int uni to cre a sin eff con may be app in swi net con ele tha hav uni wit rel sma fan - out but it see to be an ine way of usi the har of the bra .
the pro of fin a uni to sta for a new con and wir it up app do not ari if we use dis rep .
all we nee to do is mod the int bet uni so as to cre a new sta pat of act .
if thi is don by mod a lar num of con ver sli , the cre of a new pat nee not dis die exi rep .
the dif pro is to cho an app pat for the new con .
the eff of the new rep on rep in oth par of the sys wil be det by the uni tha are act , and so it is imp to use a col of act uni tha hav rou the cor eff .
fin - tun of the eff of the new pat can be
ach by sli alt the eff of the act uni it con , but it wou be unw to cho a ran pat for a new con , bec maj cha wou the be nee in die wei , and dii wou dis oth kno .
ide , the dis rep tha is cho for a new con sho be the one tha req the lea mod of wei to mak the new pat sta and to mak it hav the req eff on oth rep .
nat , it is not nec to cre a new sta pat all in one ste .
it is pos for the pat to eme as a res of mod on man sep occ .
thi all an awk pro tha a / isc wit loc rep : the sys mus mak a dis all - or - non dec abo whe to cre a new con .
if we vie con as sta pat the are muc les dis in cha .
it is pos , for exa , to dif one sta pat int two clo rel but dif var by mod som of the wei sli .
unl we are all to clo the har uni ( and all the con ) , thi kin of gra con dif is muc har to ach wit loc rep .
123 : rep con str
any sys whi att to imp the kin of con str tha peo use has to be cap of rep two rad dif kin of hie .
the fir is the " isa " hie tha rel typ to ins of tho typ .
the sec is die par / who hie tha rel ite to die con ite tha the are com of .
the mos imp cha of the isa hie are tha kno pro of the typ mus be " inh " by the ins , and pro tha arc fou to app to all ins of a typ mus nor be att to the typ .
in sec 123 we saw how the isa hie can be imp by mak the dis rep of an ins inc , as a sub , the dis rep for the typ .
thi rep tri aut yie the mos imp cha of the isa hie , but the tri can onl be use for one kin of hie .
if we use the par / who rel bet pat of act to rep the typ / ins rel bet ite , it app tha we can als use it to rep the par / who rel bet ite .
we can mak the rep of the who be the sum of the rep of its par .
the que of how to rep the rel bet an ite and the con ite of whi it is com has bee a maj stu blo for the dia pos dis rep .
in the riv , loc sch , a who is a nod tha is lin by lab arc to the nod for its par .
but the cen ten of the dis sch is tha dif ite cor to alt pat of act in the sam set of uni , so it see as if a who and its par can bot be rep at the sam tim .
i can onl see one way out of thi dil .
it rel on the fac tha who are not sim the sum of the
par , lli arc com of par dia pla par rol wit die who str .
a sha , for exa , is com of sma sha tha hav a par siz , ori and pos rel to the who .
eac con sha has its own spa rol , and die who sha is com of a set of sha / rol pai .
123 sim , a pro is com of obj dia occ par sem rol in the who pro str .
thi sug a way of imp die rel bet who and par : the ide of eac par sho fir be com wit its rol to pro a sin pat tha rep the com of the ide and the rol , and the the dis rep for the who sho con of the sum of the dis rep for die ide / rol com ( plu som add " eme " fea ) .
123 thi pro dif fro die sim ide dia die rep of the who is the sum of the rep of its par , bec die sub use to rep ide / rol com arc qui dif fro die pat use to rep the ide alo .
the do not , for exa , con the pat as par .
nat , the mus be an acc pat bet the rep of an ite as a who in its own rig and the rep of tha sam ite pla a par rol wit a lar str .
it mus be pos , for exa , to gen the ide / rol rep fro two sep , exp , dis pat one of whi rep the ide and the oth of whi rep the rol .
it mus als be pos to go the oth way and gen the exp rep of the ide and rol fro the sin com rep of the ide / rol com ( see fig 123 ) .
the use of pat dia rep ide / rol com all the par / who hie to be rep in the sam way as the typ / ins hie .
a who is sim a par ins of a num of mor gen typ , eac of whi can be def as the typ tha has a par kin of par pla a par rol ( e . g men wit woo leg ) .
seq sym pro
if con str is imp in the way des abo , the is a ser iss abo how man str can be act at any one tim .
the obv way to all the har is to use a gro of uni for eac pos rol wit a str and to mak die pat of act in dii gro rep the ide of the con tha is cur pla tha rol .
thi imp tha onl one str can be rep at a tim , whi is cle a ver sev res .
how , peo do see to suf fro str con
rel bet par are mpo as wel .
one adv of exp rep sha / rol pai is tha it all dif pai to sup eac oth .
one can vie the var dif loc wit an obj as slo and the sha of par of an obj as the fil of the slo .
kno of a who sha can the be imp by pos int bet the var
see hin , 123 for a sim tha use thi rep tec .
fig 123 : a ske of the app tha mig be nec for com sep rep of an ide and a rol int a sin pat .
onl one ide and onl one rol can be exp rep at a tim bec the ide and rol gro can eac onl hav one pat of act at a tim .
how , the var rol gro all man ide / rol com to be enc sim .
the sma tri sym rep the abi of the pat of act in the gro tha exp rep a rol to det whi one of the man rol gro is cur int wit the ide gro .
thi all the ide occ a par rol to be " rea out " as wel as all the rev ope of com an ide and a rol .
on the num of str of the sam gen typ tha the can pro at onc .
to a fir app , peo are seq sym pro ( new , 123 ) .
the scq tha the exh at thi hig lev of des is ini sur giv the mas par arc of the bra , but it bec muc eas to und if we aba our loc pre in fav of the dis alt whi use the par to giv eac act rep a ver ric int str tha all the rig kin of gen and con - add .
one cen ten of the seq sym pro app ( new , 123 ) is the abi to foc on any par of a str and to exp tha int a who tha is jus as ric in con as the ori who of whi it was a par .
the rec abi to exp par of a str for ind man lev , and the inv abi to pac up who str int a red for tha all the to be use as con of lar str is the ess of sym pro .
it all a sys to bui str out of thi tha ref to oth who str wit req tha the oth str be rep in all the
in con com imp thi abi is ach by usi poi .
the are ver con but the dep on the use of add .
in a par net , we nee som tha is fun equ to arb poi in ord to imp sym pro .
thi is exa wha is pro by sub tha sta for ide / rol com .
the all the ful ide of the par to be acc fro a rep of the who and a rep of the rol tha the sys wis to foc on , and the als all exp rep of an ide and a rol to be com int a les cum rep , so tha sev ide / rol com can be rep sim in ord to for the rep of a lar str .
giv a par net , ite can be rep by act in a sin , loc uni , or by a pat of act in a lar set of uni wit eac uni enc a " mic - fea " of die ite .
dis rep are eff whe the are und reg whi can be cap by int amo mic - fea .
by enc eac pie of kno as a lar set of int it is pos to ach use pro lik con - add mem and aut gen , and new ite can be cre wit hav to cre new con at the har lev .
in the dom of con var spa fea it is rel eas to pro a mat ana of the adv and dra of usi dis rep .
dis rep see to be uns for imp pur arb map bec
the is no und str and so gen onl cau unw int .
how , eve for dii tas , dis rep can be mad fai eff and the exh som psy int eff whe dam .
the are sev ver har pro tha mus be sol bef dis rep can be use eff .
one is to dec on the pat of act dia is to be use for rep an ite .
the sim bet the cho pat and odi exi pat wil det die kin of gen and int tha occ .
the sea for goo pat to use is equ to the sea for the und reg of the dom .
thi lea pro is not add her .
the int rea is ref to hin , sej & ack ( 123 ) .
ano har pro is to cla the rel bet dis rep and tec use in art int lik sch , or hie str des .
exi art int pro hav gre dif in rap fin the sch tha bes fit the cur sit .
par net off the pot of rap app a lot of kno to thi bes - fit sea , but thi pot wil onl be rea whe die is a goo way of imp sch in par net .
