abs .
the ass tha acq cha ist are not in ( cid : 123 ) her is oft n tak to imp tha the ada t hat an org lea dur its lif can gui the cou of evo ion .
thi inf is inc rec t ( 123 ) .
lea alt ers the sha of the sea spa in whi evo tio n ope and the pro vid goo evo ion ar y pat tow rds set of co - ada all .
we dem r at e tha th is eff all lea org to evo muc fas tha the 123 ( cid : 123 ) lea equ , eve tho the cha tic acq by the phe are not com to the gen .
man org ism lea use a dap dur t hei lif .
t hes ad ap ( cid : 123 ) tat are oft the res lt of an exp sea whi tri out m any pos bil es in or der t o d isc goo so lut ion .
it see ver was l not to m ak e use of the exp per for med by t he p hen to fac e the evo lu t ion sea for go od gen .
t he obv way to ach thi is to t r ans inf ati on abo the acq re d cha bac to t he gen .
mos bio now acc tha the lam arc an hyp is not su bst som the in fer tha lea in g can gui t he evo ( cid : 123 ) lut sea .
we use a s imp com arg to sho tha thi inf is inc and t hat lea ing can be ver eff in gui ( cid : 123 ) ing the sea , eve whe t he spe ada t hat are lea are not com ica to the gen .
in d iff lt evo sea whi re qui man pos to b e tes in ord to di sco a com co ( cid : 123 ) a dap , we dem on st r at e tha eac lea g tri can b e alm as hel t o the evo sea as t he p ro duc ion and eva ati of a who new org .
t h is gre inc es t he eff of evo bec a lea ( cid : 123 ) in g tri is m uc h fas ter an d req ir es muc les exp d itu of ene t han t he pr odu of a wh ole org .
lea g can p rov an eas evo lu t ion pat tow co - ada al ( cid : 123 ) lel in env t hat hav ~ n o goo d evo p ath for non - lea org .
t h is typ of int ion bet lea and evo lu t ion was
123 com sys p ubl , inc .
geo e .
hin and ste j .
now
fir pro hy bal 123 and llo mor ( 123 is som ca lle the bal eff .
wad ing 123 pro a sim typ of int bet wee dev pro and evo ion and cal it " can " or " gen ic ass " .
so far as we can t ell , the hav bee no com ( cid : 123 ) put sim ion or ana of the com tha dem the mag de of the eff .
an ex t r em e and sim exa m p le
bal is bes und by con an ext ( and unr lis ) cas in whi t he com are ver cle .
ima an org ism t hat con a neu net in whi the are man pot ent al con ect ons .
sup ( cid : 123 ) pos tha t he ne t onl con fer add rep fit ess on the org if it is con te d in exa the rig way .
in thi wor t cas , the is no rea evo ion pat tow the goo d net and a p ure evo ( cid : 123 ) ary sea can on ly dis wh ich of the pot con sho uld be pr ese by try pos at ran dom .
t he goo net is lik a nee in
the evo sea spa bec muc bet if the gen typ sp eci som of the dec abo whe to put con , but lea oth dec to lea .
thi has the eff of con a lar zon of inc fit ess aro the goo net .
whe the gen sp eci dec are cor , the gen fa lls wit hin thi zon and wil hav inc fit bec lea wil sta a cha of dis how to mak the rem dec so as to pro the goo net .
thi mak the evo sea muc eas .
it is lik sea for ane in a hay whe som te lls you whe you are get clo .
t he cen poi of the arg men is tha the per wh o tel you tha you are get ing clo do es not nee to tel you any mor .
a sim u lat ion
we hav sim a sim exa of th is kin of int on bet lea and evo .
the neu net has 123 pot con , and the gen has 123 gen " , eac of wh ich has thr alt rna for ( a l ( cid : 123 ) lel ) cal 123 , 123 , and ? the 123 all spe tha a con sho he pre , a spe tha it sho be abs , and ? spe a con con a swi whi can be ope or clo .
it is lef to lea to dec how the swi sho uld be set .
we ass , for sim , a lea mec tha sim tri a ran dom com of swi set on it the com of the swi set and the gen spe dec isi eve pro the one goo net we ass tha the swi
123 we ass , for sim , tha eac po ten ial con is con by its own gen .
nat , we do not be lie tha th e rel ons p bet gen and con nec is
how lea can gui evo
set are fro .
oth the kee cha . ?
the evo sea is mod wit a ver of the gen al ( cid : 123 ) gor pro by hol 123 .
fig 123 sho how lea alt the sha of the sea spa in whi evo ope .
fig 123 sho wha hap to the rel fre of th e cor , inc , and ? all dur a typ evo sea in whi eac org run man lea tri dur its lif .
not tha the tot num of org ( cid : 123 ) ism pro is far les tha the 123 ' tha wou be exp to fin the goo net by a pur evo sea .
one int fea of fig 123 is tha the is ver lit sel pre in fav of gen sp eci the las few pot con , bec a few lea tri is alm alw suf to lea the cor set of jus a few swi .
the sam pro was nev sol by an evo sea wit lea .
thi was not a sur res the pro was sel to be ext dif for an evo sea , whi rel on the exp ( cid : 123 ) tio of sma co - ada set of all to pro ide a bet tha ran sea of the spa .
the spi of fit in our exa ( fig 123 ) mea tha the onl co - ada tha con imp fit ess req sim ( cid : 123 ) neo co - ada of all 123 gen .
eve if thi co - ada is dis , it is not eas pas to des .
if an ada ind mat wit any ind oth tha one nea ide to its , the co - ada wil pro be des .
the cru of the pro is tha onl the one goo gen is dis , an d fit is the onl cri for mat sel ion .
to pre t he co - ada ion fro gen to gen it to giv ris to at lea is nec for eac goo gen , on ave , if the dis of com one goo des ant in the nex gen .
co - ada due to mat cau eac goo gen to hav les t han one exp goo des nt in the nex gen , t he co - ada wil not spr , eve if it is dis man t ime .
in our exa , the ex ( cid : 123 ) pec num of goo imm des ant of a goo gen is bel 123 wit hou lea and abo 123 wit lea .
dis
the mos com arg in fav of lea is tha som asp of the env iro are unp , so it is pos it ive adv to lea som dec ion to lea rat tha spe the gen ( e . g .
har 123 ) .
thi arg is cle cor and is one goo rea for hav a lea mec , but it is dif fro th e bal eff whi app to com co - ada to pre asp of th e en ( cid : 123 )
123 his imp ass tha t he org can " rec " whe it bas ach t he goo net .
thi rec abi ( or an abi to tel whe th e swi set ing hav bee imp ) is req to mak lea eff and so it mus pre the bal eff .
thu , it is pos tha som pro of an org whi are cur ntl y gen spe wer onc beh goa of the org ' s anc ors .
geo e .
hin and ste j .
now
zon of inc fit
com of all
fig 123 : the evo of the rel fre of the thr pos typ of all .
the are 123 org in eac gen .
and eac org per 123 lea tri dur its lif .
the ini 123 gen are gen by sel eac all at ran wit a pro of 123 for the ? all and 123 for eac of the rem two all .
a typ gen , the , has abo ten dec gen spe and abo ten lef to lea .
sin we run abo 123 lea tri for eac org , the is a rea cha tha an org whi has the cor gen spe of ten pot con wil lea the cor spe of the rem ten .
to gen the nex gen fro the cur one , we per 123 mat .
the two par of a mat are dif ind whi are cho at ran fro the cur gen .
ajj . y org in the cur gen tha lea the goo net has a muc hig pro of bei sel as a par .
the pro is pro to 123 123 / 123 , whe n is the num of lea tri tha rem aft the org has lea the cor net .
so org whi lea imm are 123 tim as lik to be cho as par tha org whi nev lea .
the sin off of eac mat is gen by ran cho a cro ( cid : 123 ) ove poi and cop all all fro the fir par up to the cro ( cid : 123 ) ove poi , and fro the sec par bey the cro - ove poi .
how lea can gui evo
. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .
~ o , s r _ _
- - - ,
. , _ . : . . , :
fig 123 : the sha of t he sea spa in whi evo ope .
the hor axi rep com of all and so it not rea one - dim nal .
wit hou lea ing , t he sea spa has a sin spi of hig fit .
one can not do bet er t han ran sea in suc a spa .
wit lea g , the is a zon of inc fit aro und the spi .
thi zon cor to gen whi all the cor com of pot con to be lea .
geo e .
hin and ste j .
now
to kee the arg sim , we sta by ass tha lea was sim a ran sea thr pos swi set .
whe t her is a sin goo com an d all oth com are equ bad a ran sea is a rea str , but for mos lea tas the is mor str tha thi and the lea pro sho ld mak use of t he str to hom in on goo sw itc h con .
mor sop ica lea pro cou be use in the cas ( e . g rum , hin , and wil ( 123 ) ) .
ind , usi a hil pro as an inn loo to gui a gen sea can be ver eff 123 ) .
as hol 123 sho , gen sea is par goo at obt evi abo wha con ( cid : 123 ) fer fit fro wid sep poi in the sea spa .
hil , on the oth han , is goo at loc l , myo opt .
whe the two tec are com , the oft per muc bet tha eit her tec ( cid : 123 ) niq alo ( 123 ) .
thu , usi a mor sop lea ni ng pro on ly str the arg for the imp of the bal eff .
for sim , we ass tha the lea ope on exa t he sam var as the gen sea .
t his is not nec for the arg ume .
eac gen cou inf the pro of lar num of po ten ial con and the lea wou sti imp the evo pat for the gen sea .
in thi mo re gen cas , any lam att to inh ac qui cha wou run int a sev com d iff : to kno how to cha the gen in ord to gen the acq cha of the ph eno pe it is nec to inv the for ( cid : 123 ) war fun tha map fro gen , via the pro of dev lop men and lea , to ada phe pes .
t his is gen a ver com , non - lin , sto fun and so it is ver har d to com how to cha t he gen to ach des ire cha in the phe eve whe the des cha are kno .
we hav foc on the int act . bet evo and lea rni , but the sam com arg ume nt can be app to the int bet n evo and dev lop .
ins of dir spe the phe , the gen cou spe the ing ien of an ada tiv pro and lea it to thi pro to ach the req end res .
an int est mod el of thi kin d of ada p roc is des by von der mal rg and wil ( cid : 123 ) sha ( 123 .
wad din ( 123 sug thi ty pe of mec to acc unt for the inh of acq cha ist ics wit in a dar fra .
the is sel pre for gen wh ich fac the dev lop of cer use cha in res to the env .
in the lim , the dev lop pro bec mes can : the sam cha wil ten to dev reg of the env fac tha ori con ( cid : 123 ) tro it .
env con of the pro is sup by int gen con l .
thu , we hav a mec whi as evo pro all som asp of the phe tha wer ini spe ind ly via an ada pro to bec mor dir spe .
our sim sup the arg of bal and wad , and dem tha ada pro wit the org can be ver
how lea can gui evo
eff ive in gui evo .
the mai lim of the bal eff is tha it is onl eff in spa tha wou be har to sea wit an ada ive pro to res the spa .
the exa we use in whi the is a sin le spi of add fit is cle an ext cas , and it is dif to ass the sha tha rea evo sea spa wou it may be hav if the wer no ada pro to res the .
pos ibl to thr som lig on thi iss by usi com sim to exp lor the sha of the evo sea spa for sim neu net tha do not lea , but suc sim lat alw con so man sim ass tha it is har to ass the bio rel .
we t her con wit a dis : for bio log who bel tha evo sea spa con nic hil ( eve wit the res cau by ada pro ) the bal eff is of lit int ere , 123 but for bio who are sus of the ass tha the nat sea spa are so nic str , the bal eff is an imp mec th at all ada pro wit the org to gre imp the spa in whi it evo .
t his res was sup by gra ist - 123 fro the nat sci ( cid : 123 ) enc fou and by con noo - 123 - k - 123 fro the off of nav l res .
we tha dav ack , fra cri , gra mit ( cid : 123 ) son , joh may - smi , dav wil , and ros lin zal for hel
