we sho how to use com pri to eli the exp awa eff tha mak in den - con bel net tha hav man hid lay .
usi com - ple pri , we der a fas , gre alg - rit tha can lea dee , dir bel net one lay at a tim , pro the top two lay - ers for an und ass mem .
the fas , gre alg is use to ini a slo lea pro tha ne - tun the wei us - ing a con ver of the wak - sle alg - rit .
aft ne - tun , a net wit thr hid lay for a ver goo gen mod of the joi dis of han dig im - age and the lab .
thi gen mod giv bet dig cla tha the bes dis - nat lea alg .
the low - dim man on whi the dig lie are mod by lon rav in the fre - ene lan of the top - lev ass mem and it is eas to ex - plo the rav by usi the dir con - tio to dis wha the ass mem has
lea is dif in den - con , dir bel net tha hav man hid lay bec it is dif to inf the con dis of the hid act whe giv a dat vec .
var met use sim app to the tru con dis , but the app may be poo , esp at the dee hid lay whe the pri ass ind .
als , var lea sti req all of the par to be lea tog and mak the lea tim sca poo as the num of par -
we des a mod in whi the top two hid lay for an und ass mem ( see gur 123 ) and the
( cid : 123 ) to app in neu com 123
rem hid lay for a dir acy gra tha con the rep in the ass mem int obs var suc as the pix of an ima .
thi hy - bri mod has som att fea :
the is a fas , gre lea alg tha can nd a fai goo set of par qui , eve in dee net wit mil of par and man hid
the lea alg is uns but can be ap - pli to lab dat by lea a mod tha gen bot the lab and the dat .
the is a ne - tun alg tha lea an exc - len gen mod whi out dis - tiv met on the mni dat of han - wri
the gen mod mak it eas to int the dis -
tri rep in the dee hid lay .
the inf req for for a per is bot fas
the lea alg is loc :
adj to a syn str dep onl on the sta of the pre - syn and pos - syn neu .
the com is sim : neu onl nee to
com the sto bin sta .
sec 123 int the ide of a com pri whi exa can the exp awa phe tha mak inf dif in dir mod .
an exa - ple of a dir bel net wit com pri is pre .
sec 123 sho the equ bet re - str bol mac and inn dir net wit tie wei .
sec 123 int a fas , gre lea alg for con mul - lay dir net one lay at a tim .
usi a var bou it sho tha as eac new lay is add , the ove gen mod imp .
the gre alg bea som res to boo in its rep use of the sam wea lea , but ins of re - wei eac dat - vec to ens tha the nex ste lea som new , it re - rep it .
the wea lea tha
123 top - lev uni
123 lab uni
thi cou be the top lev of
123 x 123
fig 123 : the net use to mod the joi dis of dig ima and dig lab .
in thi pap , eac tra cas con of an ima and an exp cla lab , but wor in pro has sho tha the sam lea alg can be use if the lab are rep by a mul pat who inp are spe fro mul dif spe - ers say iso dig .
the net the lea to gen pai tha con of an ima and a spe of the sam
is use to con dee dir net is its an und
sec 123 sho how the wei pro by the fas gre alg can be ne - tun usi the up - dow al - gor .
thi is a con ver of the wak - sle al - gor hin et al .
( 123 ) tha doe not suf fro the mod - ave pro tha can cau the wak - sle al - gor to lea poo rec wei .
sec 123 sho the pat rec per of a net wit thr hid lay and abo 123 mil wei on the mni set of han dig .
whe no kno of geo is pro and the is no spe pre , the gen per of the net is 123 err on the 123 123 dig ofc tes set .
thi bea the 123 ach by the bes bac - pro net whe the are not han - cra for thi par app .
it is als sli bet tha the 123 err rep by dec and sch ( 123 ) for sup vec mac on the
fin , sec 123 sho wha hap in the min of the net whe it is run wit bei con by vi - sua inp .
the net has a ful gen mod , so it is eas to loo int its min we sim gen an ima fro its hig - lev rep .
thr the pap , we wil con net com of
fig 123 : a sim log bel net con two ind - pen , rar cau tha bec hig ant - cor whe we obs the hou jum .
the bia of ( cid : 123 ) 123 on the ear - qua nod mea tha , in the abs of any obs , thi nod is e12 tim mor lik to be off tha on .
if the ear - qua nod is on and the tru nod is off , the jum nod has a tot inp of 123 whi mea tha it has an eve cha of bei on .
thi is a muc bet exp of the obs tha the hou jum tha the odd of e ( cid : 123 ) 123 whi app if nei of the hid cau is act .
but it is was to tur on bot hid cau to exp the obs bec the pro of the bot hap is e ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) e ( cid : 123 ) 123 = e ( cid : 123 ) 123
whe the ear nod is tur on it exp awa the evi for the tru nod .
sto bin var but the ide can be gen to oth mod in whi the log pro of a var is an add fun of the sta of its dir - con nei - bou ( see app a for det ) .
123 com pri
the phe of exp awa ( ill in gur 123 ) mak inf dif in dir bel net .
in den con net , the pos dis ove the hid - den var is int exc in a few spe cas suc as mix mod or lin mod wit add gau noi .
mar cha mon car met ( nea , 123 ) can be use to sam fro the pos , but the are typ ver tim con .
var met ( nea and hin , 123 ) app the tru pos wit a mor tra dis and the can be use to imp a low bou on the log pro of the tra dat .
it is com tha lea is gua to imp a var bou eve whe the inf of the hid sta is don inc , but it wou be muc bet to nd a way of eli ex - pla awa alt , eve in mod who hid var - abl hav hig cor eff on the vis var .
it is wid ass tha thi is imp .
a log bel net ( nea , 123 ) is com of sto - tic bin uni .
whe the net is use to gen dat , the
pro of tur on uni i is a log fun of the sta of its imm anc , j , and of the wei , wij , on the dir con fro the anc :
p ( si = 123 ) =
123 + exp ( ( cid : 123 ) bi ( cid : 123 ) pj sjw )
whe bi is the bia of uni i .
if a log bel net onl has one hid lay , the pri dis ove the hid var is fac bec the bin sta are cho ind whe the mod is use to gen dat .
the non - ind in the pos dis is cre by the lik ter com fro the dat .
per we cou eli exp awa in the rst hid lay by usi ext hid lay to cre a com pri tha has exa the opp cor to tho in the lik - hoo ter .
the , whe the lik ter is mul by the pri , we wil get a pos tha is exa fac .
it is not at all obv tha com pri exi , but gur 123 sho a sim exa of an inn log bel net wit tie wei in whi the pri are com at eve hid lay ( see app a for a mor gen tre of the con und whi com pri exi ) .
the use of tie wei to con com pri may see lik a mer tri for mak dir mod equ - len to und one .
as we sha see , how , it lea to a nov and ver efc lea alg tha wor by pro unt the wei in eac lay fro the wei in hig lay .
123 an inn dir mod wit tie wei
we can gen dat fro the inn dir net in g - ure 123 by sta wit a ran con at an inn dee hid lay and the per a top - dow anc - tra pas in whi the bin sta of eac var in a lay is cho fro the ber dis det by the top - dow inp com fro its act par in the lay abo .
in thi res , it is jus lik any oth dir acy bel net .
unl oth dir net , how , we can sam - ple fro the tru pos dis ove all of the hid lay by sta wit a dat vec on the vis uni and the usi the tra wei mat to inf the fac - tor dis ove eac hid lay in tur .
at eac hid lay we sam fro the fac pos bef com the fac pos for the lay abo
ap - pen a sho tha thi pro giv unb sam bec the com pri at eac lay ens tha the pos dis rea is fac .
sin we can sam fro the tru pos , we can com - put the der of the log pro of the dat
123 gen pro con to the sta dis of the mar cha , so we nee to sta at a lay tha is dee com wit the tim it tak for the cha to rea equ .
123 is exa the sam as the inf pro use in the wak - sle alg ( hin et al . , 123 ) for the mod des in thi pap no var app is req bec the inf pro giv unb sam .
us sta by com the der for a gen wei , ij , fro a uni j in lay h12 to uni i in lay v12 ( see gur 123 ) .
in a log bel net , the max lik lea rul for a sin dat - vec , v12 , is :
@ log p ( v12 )
i ( cid : 123 ) ^v1
whe < ( cid : 123 ) > den an ave ove the sam sta and i is the pro tha uni i wou be tur on if the vis - ble vec was sto rec fro the sam hid sta .
com the pos dis ove the sec hid lay , v12 , fro the sam bin sta in the rst hid lay , h12 , is exa the sam pro as rec - str the dat , so v12 i is a sam fro a ber ran var wit pro ^v1 i .
the lea rul can the be wri as :
@ log p ( v12 )
i ( cid : 123 ) v12
i on h12
j is unp in the der - the dep of v12 tio of eq .
123 fro eq .
123 bec ^v1 i is an exp tha is con on h12 j .
sin the wei are rep , the ful der for a gen wei is obt by sum the der of the gen wei bet all pai of lay -
@ log p ( v12 )
i ( cid : 123 ) v12
j ( cid : 123 ) h12
i ( cid : 123 ) v12
all of the ver ali ter can lea the bol -
man mac lea rul of eq
123 res bol mac and
con div lea
it may not be imm obv tha the inn dir net in gur 123 is equ to a res bol ma - chi ( rbm ) .
an rbm has a sin lay of hid uni whi are not con to eac oth and hav und , sym con to a lay of vis uni .
to gen - era dat fro an rbm , we can sta wit a ran sta in one of the lay and the per alt gib sam - pli : all of the uni in one lay are upd in par giv the cur sta of the uni in the oth lay and thi is rep unt the sys is sam fro its equ dis .
not tha thi is exa the sam pro as gen dat fro the inn bel net wit tie wei .
to per max lik lea in an rbm , we can use the dif bet two cor .
for eac wei , wij , bet a vis uni i and a hid uni , j we mea j > whe a dat is cla on the cor < v12
fig 123 : an inn log bel net wit tie wei .
the dow arr rep the gen mod .
the up - war arr are not par of the mod .
the rep the par tha are use to inf sam fro the pos dis at eac hid lay of the net whe a dat is cla on v12
the vis uni and the hid sta are sam fro the con dis , whi is fac .
the , usi al - ter gib sam , we run the mar cha sho in gur 123 unt it rea its sta dis and mea the cor <v1 j > .
the gra of the log pro of the tra dat is the
@ log p ( v12 )
j> ( cid : 123 ) <v1
thi lea rul is the sam as the max lik lea rul for the inn log bel net wit tie wei , and eac ste of gib sam cor to com the exa pos dis in a lay of the inn log bel net .
max the log pro of the dat is exa the sam as min the kul - lei div , ( cid : 123 ) ) , bet the dis of the dat , p 123 , and kl ( p 123 123 the equ dis den by the mod , p 123 con div lea ( hin , 123 ) , we onl run the mar cha for n ful ste bef mea the sec - ond cor .
thi is equ to ign the der 123 ful ste con of upd h giv v the upd v
t = 123 t = 123
t = inf
t = inf
fig 123 : thi dep a mar cha tha use alt gib sam .
in one ful ste of gib sam , the hid - den uni in the top lay are all upd in par by app - ing eq .
123 to the inp rec fro the the cur sta of the vis uni in the bot lay , the the vis uni are all upd in par giv the cur hid sta .
the cha is ini by set the bin sta of the vis uni to be the sam as a dat - vec .
the cor in the act of a vis and a hid uni are mea aft the rst upd of the hid uni and aga at the end of the cha .
the dif of the two cor pro the lea sig for upd the wei on the con .
tha com fro the hig lay of the inn net .
the sum of all the ign der is the der of the log pro of the pos dis in lay vn , whi is als the der of the kul - lei div be - twe the pos dis in lay vn , p n ( cid : 123 ) , and the equ - lib dis den by the mod .
so con di - ver lea min the dif of two kul -
kl ( p 123 123
( cid : 123 ) ) ( cid : 123 ) kl ( p n
( cid : 123 ) jjp 123
ign sam noi , thi dif is nev neg bec gib sam is use to pro p n ( cid : 123 ) fro p 123 and gib sam alw red the kul - lei div - gen wit the equ dis .
it is imp to no - ( cid : 123 ) dep on the cur mod par and tic tha p n ( cid : 123 ) cha as the par cha is the way in whi p n bei ign by con div lea .
thi pro - lem doe not ari wit p 123 bec the tra dat doe not dep on the par .
an emp inv of the rel bet the max lik and the con - tra div lea rul can be fou in car - per and hin ( 123 ) .
con div lea in a res bol mac is efc eno to be pra ( may and hin - ton , 123 ) .
var tha use rea - val uni and dif - ent sam sch are des in teh et al .
( 123 ) and hav bee qui suc for mod the for of to - pog map ( wel et al . , 123 ) , for den nat ima ( rot and bla , 123 ) or ima of bio cel ( nin et al . , 123 ) .
mar and mov ( 123 ) des a way of usi con div to per fac ana - sis and wel et al .
( 123 ) sho tha a net wit log , bin vis uni and lin , gau hid uni can be use for rap doc ret .
how , it app tha
the efc has bee bou at a hig pri : whe app in the obv way , con div lea fai for dee , mul net wit dif wei at eac lay bec the net tak far too lon eve to rea con - tio equ wit a cla dat - vec .
we now sho tha the equ bet rbm and inn dir net wit tie wei sug an efc lea alg for mul net in whi the wei are not tie .
123 a gre lea alg for
an efc way to lea a com mod is to com a set of sim mod tha are lea seq .
to for eac mod in the seq to lea som dif fro the pre mod , the dat is mod in som way aft eac mod has bee lea .
in boo ( fre , 123 ) , eac mod in the seq is tra on re - wei dat tha emp the cas tha the pre mod got wro .
in one ver of pri com ana , the var in a mod dir is rem thu for the nex mod dir to lie in the ort sub ( san , 123 ) .
in pro pur ( fri and stu , 123 ) , the dat is tra by non dis one dir in the dat - spa to rem all non - gau in tha dir .
the ide beh our gre alg is to all eac mod in the seq to rec a dif rep of the dat .
the mod per a non - lin tra on its inp vec and pro as out the vec tha wil be use as inp for the nex mod in the seq .
fig 123 sho a mul gen mod in whi the top two lay int via und con and all of the oth con are dir .
the und con - tio at the top are equ to hav inn man hig lay wit tie wei .
the are no int - lay con and , to sim the ana , all lay hav the sam num of uni .
it is pos to lea sen ( tho not opt ) val for the par w12 by ass tha the par - ter bet hig lay wil be use to con a com - men pri for w12
thi is equ to ass tha all of the wei mat are con to be equ .
the tas of lea w12 und thi ass red to the tas of lea an rbm and alt thi is sti dif , goo ap - pro sol can be fou rap by min con - tra div .
onc w12 has bee lea , the dat can be map thr wt 123 to cre hig - lev dat at the rst hid lay .
if the rbm is a per mod of the ori dat , the hig - lev dat wil alr be mod per by the hig - lev wei mat .
gen , how , the rbm wil not be abl to mod the ori dat per and we can mak the gen mod bet usi the fol
lea w12 ass all the wei mat are tie .
fre w12 and com our to usi wt
123 to inf
fig 123 : a hyb net .
the top two lay hav und - rec con and for an ass mem .
the lay - ers bel hav dir , top - dow , gen con tha can be use to map a sta of the ass mem to an ima .
the are als dir , bot - up , rec con tha are use to inf a fac rep in one lay fro the bin act in the lay bel .
in the gre ini lea the rec con are tie to the gen con .
fac app pos dis ove the sta of the var in the rst hid lay , eve if sub cha in hig lev wei mea tha thi inf met is no lon cor .
kee all the hig wei mat tie to eac oth , but unt fro w12 , lea an rbm mod of the hig - lev dat tha was pro by usi wt tra the ori dat .
if thi gre alg cha the hig - lev wei mat , it is gua to imp the gen mod .
as sho in ( nea and hin , 123 ) , the neg log pro - abi of a sin dat - vec , v12 , und the mul gen - era mod is bou by a var fre ene whi is the exp ene und the app dis , q ( h12 ) , min the ent of tha dis .
for a di - rec mod , the ene of the con v12 h12 is
e ( v12 h12 ) = ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) log p ( h12 ) + log p ( v12 ) ( cid : 123 )
so the bou is : log p ( v12 ) ( cid : 123 ) x
q ( h12 ) ( cid : 123 ) log p ( h12 ) + log p ( v12 ) ( cid : 123 )
q ( h12 ) log q ( h12 )
whe h12 is a bin con of the uni in the rst hid - den lay , p ( h12 ) is the pri pro of h12 und the cur - ren mod ( whi is den by the wei abo h12 ) and q ( ( cid : 123 ) jv1 ) is any pro dis ove the bin con - gur in the rst hid lay .
the bou bec an equ if and onl if q ( ( cid : 123 ) jv1 ) is the tru pos dis -
whe all of the wei mat are tie tog , the fac - 123 to a tor dis ove h12 pro by app wt dat - vec is the tru pos dis , so at ste 123 of the gre alg log p ( v12 ) is equ to the bou .
ste 123 fre bot q ( ( cid : 123 ) jv1 ) and p ( v12 ) and wit the ter xed , the der of the bou is the sam as the der
q ( h12 ) log p ( h12 )
so max the bou w . r . t .
the wei in the hig lay - ers is exa equ to max the log pro of a dat in whi h12 occ wit pro q ( h12 ) .
if the bou bec tig , it is pos for log p ( v12 ) to fal eve tho the low bou on it inc , but log p ( v12 ) can nev fal bel its val at ste 123 of the gre alg - rit bec the bou is tig at thi poi and the bou
the gre alg can cle be app rec , so if we use the ful max lik bol mac lea alg to lea eac set of tie wei and the we unt the bot lay of the set fro the wei abo , we can lea the wei one lay at a tim wit a gua - ant tha we wil nev dec the log pro of the dat und the ful gen mod .
in pra , we rep max lik bol mac lea alg by con div lea bec it wor wel and is muc fas .
the use of con div voi the gua , but it is sti rea to kno tha ext lay are gua to imp imp mod if we lea eac lay wit suf pat .
to gua tha the gen mod is imp by gre lea mor lay , it is con to con mod in whi all lay are the sam siz so tha the hig - lev wei can be ini to the val lea bef the are unt fro the wei in the lay bel .
the sam gre alg , how , can be app eve whe the lay - ers are dif siz .
123 bac - fit wit the up - dow alg
lea the wei mat one lay at a tim is efc but not opt .
onc the wei in hig lay hav bee lea , nei the wei nor the sim inf pro - dur are opt for the low lay .
the sub - opt pro - duc by gre lea is rel inn for sup - vis met lik boo .
lab are oft sca and eac
123 gua is on the exp cha in the log pro .
lab may onl pro a few bit of con on the par - ter , so ove - tti is typ mor of a pro tha und - tti .
goi bac and ret the ear mod may , the - for , cau mor har tha goo .
uns met , how , can use ver lar unl dat and eac cas may be ver hig - dim thu pro man bit of con on a gen mod .
und - tti is the a se - rio pro whi can be all by a sub sta of bac - tti in whi the wei tha wer lea rst are rev to t in bet wit the wei tha wer lea lat .
aft gre lea goo ini val for the wei in eve lay , we unt the rec wei tha are use for inf fro the gen wei tha de - ne the mod , but ret the res tha the pos in eac lay mus be app by a fac dis in whi the var wit a lay are con ind - den giv the val of the var in the lay bel .
a var of the wak - sle alg des in hin et al .
( 123 ) can the be use to all the hig - lev wei to inu the low lev one .
in the up - pas , the rec - nit wei are use in a bot - up pas tha sto - cal pic a sta for eve hid var .
the gen wei on the dir con are the adj usi the max lik lea rul in eq .
the wei on the und con at the top lev are lea as bef by tti the top - lev rbm to the pos dis - tio of the pen lay .
the dow - pas sta wit a sta of the top - lev ass - cia mem and use the top - dow gen con to sto act eac low lay in tur .
dur the dow - pas , the top - lev und con and the gen dir con are not cha .
onl the bot - up rec wei are mod .
thi is equ - len to the sle pha of the wak - sle alg if the as - soc mem is all to set to its equ dis - but bef ini the dow - pas .
but if the ass mem is ini by an up - pas and the onl all to run for a few ite of alt gib sam bef ini the dow - pas , thi is a con for of the wak - sle alg whi eli the nee to sam fro the equ dis of the ass mem .
the con for als xes sev oth pro of the sle pha .
it ens tha the rec wei are bei lea for rep tha res tho use for rea dat and it als hel to eli the pro of mod ave - agi .
if , giv a par dat vec , the cur rec - tio wei alw pic a par mod at the lev abo and ign oth ver dif mod tha are equ goo at gen the dat , the lea in the dow - pas wil not try to alt tho rec wei to rec any of the oth mod as it wou if the sle pha use a pur anc pas .
a pur anc pas wou hav to sta by usi pro - lon gib sam to get an equ sam fro the top - lev ass mem .
by usi a top - lev ass -
123 wei are no lon tie to the wei abo the , i mus be com usi the sta of the var in the lay abo i and the gen wei fro the var to i .
fig 123 : all 123 cas in whi the net gue rig but had a sec gue who pro was wit 123 : 123 of the pro of the bes gue .
the tru cla are arr in sta sca ord .
tiv mem we als eli a pro in the wak pha : ind top - lev uni see to be req to all an anc pas , but the mea tha the var app - tio is ver poo for the top lay of wei .
app b spe the det of the up - dow alg usi mat - sty pse - cod for the net sho in g - ure 123
for sim , the is no pen on the wei , no mom , and the sam lea rat for all par .
als , the tra dat is red to a sin cas .
123 per on the mni dat
123 tra the net
the mni dat of han dig con 123 , 123 tra ima and 123 , 123 tes ima .
res for man dif pat rec tec are alr pub for thi pub ava dat so it is ide for eva new pat rec met .
for the bas ver of the mni lea tas , no kno of geo is pro - vid and the is no spe pre - pro or enh of the tra set , so an unk but xed ran per - tio of the pix wou not aff the lea alg .
for thi per - inv ver of the tas , the gen - iza per of our net was 123 err on the ofc tes set .
the net sho in gur 123 was tra on 123 , 123 of the tra ima tha wer div int 123 bal min - bat eac con 123 exa of eac dig cla .
the wei wer upd aft eac min - bat .
123 exp wit 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 ima of han dig fro the usp dat sho tha a goo way to mod the joi dis of dig ima and the lab was to use an arc of thi typ , but for 123 ( cid : 123 ) 123 ima , onl 123 as man uni wer use in eac hid lay .
fig 123 : the 123 tes cas tha the net got wro .
eac cas is lab by the net gue .
the tru cla are arr in sta sca ord .
in the ini pha of tra , the gre alg de - scr in sec 123 was use to tra eac lay of wei sep , sta at the bot .
eac lay was tra for 123 swe thr the tra set ( cal epo ) .
dur - ing tra , the uni in the vis lay of eac rbm had rea - val act bet 123 and 123
the wer the nor - mal pix int whe lea the bot lay of wei .
for tra hig lay of wei , the rea - val act of the vis uni in the rbm wer the act pro of the hid uni in the low - lev rbm .
the hid lay of eac rbm use sto bin val whe tha rbm was bei tra .
the gre tra too a few hou per lay in mat on a 123 xeo pro and whe it was don , the err - rat on the tes set was 123 ( see bel for det of how the net is tes ) .
whe tra the top lay of wei ( the one in the ass mem ) the lab wer pro as par of the inp .
the lab wer rep by tur on one uni in a sof gro of 123 uni .
whe the act in thi gro wer rec fro the act in the lay abo , ex - act one uni was all to be act and the pro of
pic uni i was giv by :
whe xi is the tot inp rec by uni i .
cur , the lea rul are una by the com bet uni in a sof gro , so the syn do not nee to kno whi uni is com wit whi oth uni .
the com - tio aff the pro of a uni tur on , but it is onl thi pro tha aff the lea .
aft the gre lay - by - lay tra , the net was tra , wit a dif lea rat and wei - dec , for 123 epo usi the up - dow alg des in sec 123
the lea rat , mom , and wei - dec wer cho by tra the net sev tim and obs its per on a sep val set of 123 , 123 im - age tha wer tak fro the rem of the ful tra set .
for the rst 123 epo of the up - dow alg , the up - pas was fol by thr ful ite of alt gib sam in the ass mem bef per - ing the dow - pas .
for the sec 123 epo , six ite wer per , and for the las 123 epo , ten ite wer per .
eac tim the num of ite of gib sam was rai , the err on the val set dec
the net tha per bes on the val set was the tes and had an err rat of 123 .
thi net was the tra on all 123 , 123 tra ima unt its err - rat on the ful tra set was as low as its nal err - rat had bee on the ini tra set of 123 , 123 ima .
thi too a fur 123 epo mak the tot lea tim abo a wee .
the nal net had an err - rat of 123
the err mad by the net are sho in gur 123
the 123 cas tha the net get cor but for whi the sec bes pro is wit 123 of the bes pro are sho in gur 123
