mos cur spe rec sys use hid mar mod ( hmm ) to dea wit the tem var of spe and gau mix mod to det how wel eac sta of eac hmm ts a fra or a sho win of fra of coe tha rep the aco inp .
an alt way to eva the t is to use a fee - for neu net tha tak sev fra of coe as inp and pro pos pro ove hmm sta as out .
dee neu net wit man hid lay , tha are tra usi new met hav bee sho to out gau mix mod on a var of spe rec ben , som by a lar mar .
thi pap pro an ove of thi pro and rep the sha vie of fou res gro who hav had rec suc in usi dee neu net for aco mod in spe rec .
new mac lea alg can lea to sig adv in aut spe rec .
the big
sin adv occ nea fou dec ago wit the int of the exp - max ( em )
alg for tra hid mar mod ( hmm ) ( see ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) for inf his rev of the
int of hmm ) .
wit the em alg , it bec pos to dev spe rec sys for
rea wor tas usi the ric of gau mix mod ( gmm ) ( 123 ) to rep the rel bet
hmm sta and the aco inp .
in the sys the aco inp is typ rep by con
mel fre cep coe ( mfc ) or per lin pre coe ( plp ) ( 123 ) com
fro the raw wav , and the rst - and sec - ord tem dif ( 123 ) .
thi non - ada but hig -
eng pre - pro of the wav is des to dis the lar amo of inf in wav tha
is con to be irr for dis and to exp the rem inf in a for tha fac
dis wit gmm - hmm .
gmm hav a num of adv tha mak the sui for mod the pro dis ove
vec of inp fea tha are ass wit eac sta of an hmm .
wit eno com , the can mod
hin , dah , moh , and jai are wit the uni of tor .
den and yu are wit mic res .
sen , van and ngu are wit goo res .
sai and kin are wit ibm res .
apr 123 , 123
pro dis to any req lev of acc and the are fai eas to t to dat usi the em
alg .
a hug amo of res has gon int way of con gmm to inc the eva spe
and to opt the tra - off bet the exi and the amo of tra dat ava to avo ser
the rec acc of a gmm - hmm sys can be fur imp if it is dis ne - tun
aft it has bee gen tra to max its pro of gen the obs dat , esp if
the dis obj fun use for tra is clo rel to the err rat on pho , wor or
sen ( 123 ) .
the acc can als be imp by aug ( or con ) the inp fea ( e . g . , mfc )
wit tan or bot fea gen usi neu net ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
gmm are so suc tha it is
dif for any new met to out the for aco mod .
des all the adv , gmm hav a ser sho the are sta ine for mod
dat tha lie on or nea a non - lin man in the dat spa .
for exa , mod the set of poi tha lie ver
clo to the sur of a sph onl req a few par usi an app mod cla , but it req a
ver lar num of dia gau or a fai lar num of ful - cov gau .
spe is pro
by mod a rel sma num of par of a dyn sys ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and thi imp tha its tru
und str is muc low - dim tha is imm app in a win tha con hun
of coe .
we bel , the , tha oth typ of mod may wor bet tha gmm for aco mod
if the can mor eff exp inf emb in a lar win of fra .
art neu net tra by bac err der hav the pot to lea muc bet
mod of dat tha lie on or nea a non - lin man .
in fac two dec ago , res ach som suc
usi art neu net wit a sin lay of non - lin hid uni to pre hmm sta fro win
of aco coe ( 123 ) .
at tha tim , how , nei the har nor the lea alg wer ade
for tra neu net wit man hid lay on lar amo of dat and the per ben of
usi neu net wit a sin hid lay wer not suf lar to ser cha gmm
res , the mai pra con of neu net at tha tim was to pro ext fea in tan or
ove the las few yea , adv in bot mac lea alg and com har hav led to mor
efc met for tra dee neu net ( dnn ) tha con man lay of non - lin hid uni and
a ver lar out lay .
the lar out lay is req to acc the lar num of hmm sta tha
ari whe eac pho is mod by a num of dif tri hmm tha tak int acc the pho on
eit sid .
eve whe man of the sta of the tri hmm are tie tog , the can be tho of tie
sta .
usi the new lea met , sev dif res gro hav sho tha dnn can out
gmm at aco mod for spe rec on a var of dat inc lar dat wit lar
thi rev pap aim to rep the sha vie of res gro at the uni of tor , mic
res ( msr ) , goo and ibm res , who hav all had rec suc in usi dnn for aco
apr 123 , 123
mod .
the pap sta by des the two - sta tra pro tha is use for tti the dnn .
in the
rst sta , lay of fea det are ini , one lay at a tim , by tti a sta of gen mod ,
eac of whi has one lay of lat var .
the gen mod are tra wit usi any inf
abo the hmm sta tha the aco mod wil nee to dis .
in the sec sta , eac gen mod
in the sta is use to ini one lay of hid uni in a dnn and the who net is the dis
ne - tun to pre the tar hmm sta .
the tar are obt by usi a bas gmm - hmm sys to
pro a for ali .
in thi pap we rev exp exp on the tim dat ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) tha wer use to dem
the pow of thi two - sta tra pro for aco mod .
the dnn tha wor wel on tim wer
the app to ve dif lar voc , con spe rec tas by thr dif res gro
who res we als sum .
the dnn wor wel on all of the tas whe com wit hig - tun
gmm - hmm sys and on som of the tas the out the sta - of - the - art by a lar mar .
we als
des som oth use of dnn for aco mod and som var on the tra pro .
tra dee neu net
a dee neu net ( dnn ) is a fee - for , art neu net tha has mor tha one lay of hid uni bet its inp and its out .
eac hid uni , j , typ use the log fun to map its tot
inp fro the lay bel , xj , to the sca sta , yj tha it sen to the lay abo .
yj = log ( xj ) =
123 + exj
xj = bj +xi
whe bj is the bia of uni j , i is an ind ove uni in the lay bel , and wij is a the wei on a con
to uni j fro uni i in the lay bel .
for mul cla , out uni j con its tot inp , xj , int
a cla pro , pj , by usi the sof non - lin :
whe k is an ind ove all cla .
dnn can be dis tra by bac der of a cos fun tha mea the
dis bet the tar out and the act out pro for eac tra cas ( 123 ) .
whe usi the
sof out fun , the nat cos fun c is the cro - ent bet the tar pro d and the
out of the sof , p :
whe the tar pro , typ tak val of one or zer , are the sup inf pro to
c = xj
dj log pj ,
tra the dnn cla .
123 clo rel hyb tan is als oft use and any fun wit a wel - beh der can be use .
apr 123 , 123
for lar tra set , it is typ mor efc to com the der on a sma , ran min - bat
of tra cas , rat tha the who tra set , bef upd the wei in pro to the gra
sto gra des met can be fur imp by usi a mom coe , 123 < < 123 , tha
smo the gra com for min - bat t , the dam osc acr rav and spe pro
the upd rul for bia can be der by tre the as wei on con com fro uni tha alw
wij ( t ) = wij ( t 123 )
hav a sta of 123
to red ove , lar wei can be pen in pro to the squ mag , or the lea
can sim be ter at the poi at whi per on a hel - out val set sta get wor ( 123 )
dnn wit ful con bet adj lay , the ini wei are giv sma ran val to pre
all of the hid uni in a lay fro get exa the sam gra .
dnn wit man hid lay are har to opt .
gra des fro a ran sta poi nea the
ori is not the bes way to nd a goo set of wei and unl the ini sca of the wei are car
cho ( 123 ) , the bac gra wil hav ver dif mag in dif lay .
in add to
the opt iss , dnn may gen poo to hel - out tes dat .
dnn wit man hid lay and
man uni per lay are ver exi mod wit a ver lar num of par .
thi mak the cap of
mod ver com and hig non - lin rel bet inp and out .
thi abi is imp
for hig - qua aco mod , but it als all the to mod spu reg tha are an acc
pro of the par exa in the tra set , whi can lea to sev ove .
wei pen or
ear - sto can red the ove but onl by rem muc of the mod pow .
ver lar tra set
( 123 ) can red ove whi pre mod pow , but onl by mak tra ver com
exp .
wha we nee is a bet met of usi the inf in the tra set to bui mul lay of
non - lin fea det .
gen pre - tra
ins of des fea det to be goo for dis bet cla , we can sta by des
the to be goo at mod the str in the inp dat .
the ide is to lea one lay of fea det at
a tim wit the sta of the fea det in one lay act as the dat for tra the nex lay .
aft thi
gen pre - tra , the mul lay of fea det can be use as a muc bet sta poi for
a dis ne - tun pha dur whi bac thr the dnn sli adj the wei
fou in pre - tra ( 123 ) .
som of the hig - lev fea cre by the gen pre - tra wil be of lit
use for dis , but oth wil be far mor use tha the raw inp .
the gen pre - tra nds a
reg of the wei - spa tha all the dis ne - tun to mak rap pro , and it als sig
red ove ( 123 ) .
apr 123 , 123
a sin lay of fea det can be lea by tti a gen mod wit one lay of lat var
to the inp dat .
the are two bro cla of gen mod to cho fro .
a dir mod gen
dat by rst cho the sta of the lat var fro a pri dis and the cho the sta of the
obs var fro the con dis giv the lat sta .
exa of dir mod wit
one lay of lat var are fac ana , in whi the lat var are dra fro an iso gau ,
and gmm , in whi the are dra fro a dis dis .
an und mod has a ver dif way of
gen dat .
ins of usi one set of par to den a pri dis ove the lat var and a
sep set of par to den the con dis of the obs var giv the val of the
lat var , an und mod use a sin set of par , w , to den the joi pro of a vec
of val of the obs var , v , and a vec of val of the lat var , h , via an ene fun ,
p ( v , h; w ) =
whe z is cal the par fun .
ee ( v , h;w ) , z = xv , h
if man dif lat var int non - lin to gen eac dat vec , it is dif to inf the sta
of the lat var fro the obs dat in a dir mod bec of a phe kno as exp
awa ( 123 ) .
in und mod , how , inf is eas pro the lat var do not hav edg lin
suc a res cla of und mod is ide for lay pre - tra bec eac lay wil hav
an eas inf pro .
we sta by des an app lea alg for a res bol mac ( rbm ) whi
con of a lay of sto bin vis uni tha rep bin inp dat con to a lay of
sto bin hid uni tha lea to mod sig non - ind bet the vis uni ( 123 )
are und con bet vis and hid uni but no vis - vis or hid - hid con .
an rbm is a typ of mar ran fie ( mrf ) but dif fro mos mrf in sev way : it has a bip
con gra it doe not usu sha wei bet dif uni and a sub of the var are
uno , eve dur tra .
an efc lea pro for rbm
a joi con , ( v , h ) of the vis and hid uni of an rbm has an ene giv by :
e ( v , h ) = xiv
whe vi , hj are the bin sta of vis uni i and hid uni j , ai , bj are the bia and wij is the wei
bet the .
the net ass a pro to eve pos pai of a vis and a hid vec via thi
ene fun as in eqn .
( 123 ) and the pro tha the net ass to a vis vec , v , is giv by
sum ove all pos hid vec :
apr 123 , 123
the der of the log pro of a tra set wit res to a wei is sur sim :
whe n is the siz of the tra set and the ang bra are use to den exp und the dis
spe by the sub tha fol .
the sim der in eqn . ( 123 ) lea to a ver sim lea rul for
per sto ste asc in the log pro of the tra dat :
wij = ( <vi <vi )
whe is a lea rat .
the abs of dir con bet hid uni in an rbm mak it is ver eas to get an unb
sam of <vi .
giv a ran sel tra cas , v , the bin sta , hj , of eac hid uni , j , is
set to 123 wit pro
and vih is the an unb sam .
the abs of dir con bet vis uni in an rbm mak
p ( hj = 123 | v ) = log ( bj +xi
it ver eas to get an unb sam of the sta of a vis uni , giv a hid vec
p ( vi = 123 | h ) = log ( ai +xj
get an unb sam of < vih >mo , how , is muc mor dif .
it can be don by sta at
any ran sta of the vis uni and per alt gib sam for a ver lon tim .
alt
gib sam con of upd all of the hid uni in par usi eqn . ( 123 ) fol by upd all of
the vis uni in par usi eqn . ( 123 ) .
a muc fas lea pro cal con div ( cd ) was pro in ( 123 ) .
thi sta by
set the sta of the vis uni to a tra vec .
the the bin sta of the hid uni are all com
in par usi eqn . ( 123 ) .
onc bin sta hav bee cho for the hid uni , a rec is pro
by set eac vi to 123 wit a pro giv by eqn . ( 123 ) .
fin , the sta of the hid uni are upd
the cha in a wei is the giv by
wij = ( <vi <vi )
a sim ver of the sam lea rul tha use the sta of ind uni ins of pai pro
is use for the bia .
con div wor wel eve tho it is onl cru app the gra of the log pro
of the tra dat ( 123 ) .
rbm lea bet gen mod if mor ste of alt gib sam are use
bef col the sta for the sec ter in the lea rul , but for the pur of pre - tra fea
det , mor alt are gen of lit val and all the res rev her wer obt usi
cd1 whi doe a sin ful ste of alt gib sam aft the ini upd of the hid uni .
to sup noi in the lea , the rea - val pro rat tha bin sam are gen use for the
apr 123 , 123
rec and the sub sta of the hid uni , but it is imp to use sam bin val for the
rst com of the hid sta bec the sam noi act as a ver eff reg tha pre
mod rea - val dat
rea - val dat , suc as mfc , are mor nat mod by lin var wit gau noi and the
rbm ene fun can be mod to acc suc var , giv a gau - ber rbm ( grb ) :
e ( v , h ) = xiv
whe i is the sta dev of the gau noi for vis uni i .
the two con dis req for cd1 lea are :
p ( hj| ) = log bj +xi p ( vi| ) = n ai + ixj
whe n ( , 123 ) is a gau .
lea the sta dev of a grb is pro for rea des
in ( 123 ) , so for pre - tra usi cd1 , the dat are nor so tha eac coe has zer mea and uni var , the sta dev are set to 123 whe com p ( v|h ) , and no noi is add to the rec .
thi avo the iss of dec the rig noi lev .
sta rbm to mak a dee bel net
aft tra an rbm on the dat , the inf sta of the hid uni can be use as dat for tra
ano rbm tha lea to mod the sig dep bet the hid uni of the rst rbm
can be rep as man tim as des to pro man lay of non - lin fea det tha rep
pro mor com sta str in the dat .
the rbm in a sta can be com in a sur
way to pro a sin , mul - lay gen mod cal a dee bel net ( dbn ) ( 123 ) .
eve tho eac rbm is an und mod , the dbn 123 for by the who sta is a hyb gen mod who top two lay
are und ( the are the nal rbm in the sta ) but who low lay hav top - dow , dir con
( see gur 123 ) .
to und how rbm are com int a dbn it is hel to rew eqn . ( 123 ) and to mak exp the
dep on w :
p ( v; w ) =xh
p ( h; w ) p ( v|h w ) ,
123 to be con wit a dyn bay net whi is a typ of dir mod of tem dat tha unf has the sam
apr 123 , 123
the seq of ope use to cre a dbn wit thr hid lay and to con it to a pre - tra dbn - dnn .
fir a
grb is tra to mod a win of fra of rea - val aco coe .
the the sta of the bin hid uni of the grb
are use as dat for tra an rbm .
thi is rep to cre as man hid lay as des .
the the sta of rbm is con
to a sin gen mod , a dbn , by rep the und con of the low lev rbm by top - dow , dir con .
fin , a pre - tra dbn - dnn is cre by add a sof out lay tha con one uni for eac pos sta of eac hmm .
the dbn - dnn is the dis tra to pre the hmm sta cor to the cen fra of the inp win in a for
whe p ( h; w ) is den as in eqn . ( 123 ) but wit the rol of the vis and hid uni rev .
now it is
cle tha the mod can be imp by hol p ( v|h w ) xed aft tra the rbm , but rep the pri
ove hid vec p ( h; w ) by a bet pri , i . e .
a pri tha is clo to the agg pos ove hid
vec tha can be sam by rst pic a tra cas and the inf a hid vec usi eqn . ( 123 )
agg pos is exa wha the nex rbm in the sta is tra to mod .
as sho in ( 123 ) , the is a ser of var bou on the log pro of the tra dat , and fur ,
eac tim a new rbm is add to the sta , the var bou on the new and dee dbn is bet tha the
pre var bou , pro the new rbm is ini and lea in the rig way .
whi the exi
of a bou tha kee imp is mat rea , it doe not ans the pra iss , add in
thi rev pap , of whe the lea fea det are use for dis on a tas tha is unk
whi tra the dbn .
nor doe it gua tha any imp whe we use efc sho - cut suc as
cd1 tra of the rbm .
apr 123 , 123
one ver nic pro of a dbn tha dis it fro oth mul , dir , non - lin gen
mod , is tha it is pos to inf the sta of the lay of hid uni in a sin for pas .
thi inf ,
whi is use in der the var bou , is not exa cor but it is fai acc .
so aft lea a
dbn by tra a sta of rbm , we can jet the who pro fra and sim use the gen
wei in the rev dir as a way of ini all the fea det lay of a det fee - for dnn .
we the jus add a nal sof lay and tra the who dnn dis
int a dnn wit an hmm
a dnn out
p ( hm m sta ) .
but to com a vit ali or to run the for - bac alg
wit the hmm fra we req the lik p ( aco m sta ) .
the pos pro
tha the dnn out can be con int the sca lik by div the by the fre of the
hmm - sta in the for ali tha is use for ne - tun the dnn ( 123 ) .
all of the lik pro in
thi way are sca by the sam unk fac of p ( aco ) , but thi has no eff on the ali .
alt thi con app to hav lit eff on som rec tas , it can be imp for tas
whe tra lab are hig unb ( e . g . , wit man fra of sil ) .
pho cla and rec on tim
the tim dat pro a sim and con way of tes new app to spe rec .
the tra set is sma eno to mak it fea to try man var of a new met and man exi
tec hav alr bee ben on the cor tes set so it is eas to see if a new app is pro
by com it wit exi tec tha hav bee imp by the pro ( 123 ) .
exp has
sho tha per imp on tim do not nec tra int per imp on
lar voc tas wit les con rec con and muc mor tra dat .
nev , tim
pro a goo sta poi for dev a new app , esp one tha req a cha amo of
moh et .
( 123 ) sho tha a dbn - dnn aco mod out the bes pub rec
res on tim at abo the sam tim as sai et .
( 123 ) ach a sim imp on tim by
app sta - of - the - art tec dev for lar voc rec .
sub wor com the
two app by usi sta - of - the - art , dis tra ( dt ) spe - dep fea as inp to the
dbn - dnn ( 123 ) , but thi pro lit fur imp , pro bec the hid lay of the dbn - dnn
wer alr doi qui a goo job of pro eli spe dif ( 123 ) .
the dbn - dnn tha wor bes on the tim dat for the sta poi for sub exp
on muc mor cha , lar voc tas tha wer too com int to all ext
123 , a dnn tha is pre - tra gen as a dbn is oft sti cal a dbn in the lit .
for cla we cal it a dbn - dnn .
apr 123 , 123
com amo the rep spe - ind pho rec acc res on tim cor tes set wit 123 sen
aug con ran fie ( 123 )
ran ini rec neu net ( 123 )
bay tri gmm - hmm ( 123 )
mon htm ( 123 )
het cla ( 123 )
mon ran ini dnn ( 123 lay ) ( 123 )
mon dbn - dnn ( 123 lay ) ( 123 )
mon dbn - dnn wit mmi tra ( 123 )
tri gmm - hmm dis tra w / bmm ( 123 )
mon dbn - dnn on fba ( 123 lay ) ( 123 )
mon mcr - dbn - dnn on fba ( 123 lay ) ( 123 )
mon con dnn on fba ( 123 lay ) ( 123 )
exp of var in the arc of the neu net , the rep of the aco inp or the
for sim , all hid lay alw had the sam siz , but eve wit thi con it was imp to
tra all pos com of num of hid lay ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , num of uni per lay ( 123 ,
123 , 123 , 123 ) and num of fra of aco dat in the inp lay ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
for ,
the per of the net on the tim cor tes set was fai ins to the pre det of the
arc and the res in ( 123 ) sug tha any com of the num in bol pro has an err
rat wit abo 123 of the ver bes com .
thi rob is cru for met suc as dbn - dnn
tha hav a lot of tun met - par .
our con ndi is tha mul hid lay alw wor
bet tha one hid lay and , wit mul hid lay , pre - tra alw imp the res on bot the
dev and tes set in the tim tas .
det of the lea rat , sto cri , mom , l12 wei
pen and min - bat siz for bot the pre - tra and ne - tun are giv in ( 123 ) .
tab i com dbn - dnn wit a var of oth met on the tim cor tes set .
for eac typ of
dbn - dnn the arc tha per bes on the dev set is rep .
all met use mfc as
inp exc for the thr mar fba tha use log mel - sca lte - ban out .
pre - pro the wav for dee neu net
sta - of - the - art asr sys do not use lte - ban coe as the inp rep bec the are
str cor so mod the wel req eit ful cov gau or a hug num of dia
gau .
mfc off a mor sui alt as the ind com are rou ind so the
are muc eas to mod usi a mix of dia cov gau .
dbn - dnn do not req unc
apr 123 , 123
dat and , on the tim dat , the wor rep in ( 123 ) sho tha the bes per dbn - dnn tra
wit lte - ban fea had a pho err rat 123 low tha the bes per dbn - dnn tra wit
mfc ( see tab i ) .
fin - tun dbn - dnn to opt mut inf
in the exp usi tim dis abo , the dnn wer ne - tun to opt the per fra cro -
ent bet the tar hmm sta and the pre .
the tra par and lan mod sco
wer obt fro an hmm - lik app and wer tra ind of the dnn wei .
how , it has
lon bee kno tha seq cla cri , whi are mor dir cor wit the ove wor or
pho err rat , can be ver hel in imp rec acc ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and the ben of usi suc
seq cla cri wit sha neu net has alr bee sho by ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
in the mor
rec wor rep in ( 123 ) , one pop typ of seq cla cri , max mut inf
or mmi , pro as ear as 123 ( 123 ) , was suc app to lea dbn - dnn wei for the tim pho
rec tas .
mmi opt the con pro p ( l12 : t |v1 : t ) of the who seq of lab , l12 : t , wit len t , giv the who vis fea utt v12 : t , or equ the hid fea seq h12 : t ext by the dnn :
p ( l12 : t |v1 : t ) = p ( l12 : t |h1 : t ) =
t=1 iji ( lt1 , lt ) +pt
whe the tra fea ij ( lt1 , lt ) tak on a val of one if lt1 = i and lt = j , and oth tak on a val of zer , whe ij is the par ass wit thi tra fea , htd is the d - th dim of
the hid uni val at the t - th fra at the nal lay of the dnn , and whe d is the num of uni in the
nal hid lay .
not the obj fun of eqn . ( 123 ) der fro mut inf ( 123 ) is the sam as
the con lik ass wit a spe lin - cha con ran eld .
her , it is the top
mos lay of the dnn bel the sof lay , not the raw spe coe of mfc or plp , tha pro
fea to the con ran eld .
to opt the log con pro p ( ln
123 : t ) of the n - th utt , we tak the gra ove the
act par kd , tra par ij , and the low - lay wei of the dnn , wij , acc to
t = k ) p ( ln
t = k|v
t12 = i , ln
t = j ) p ( ln
t12 = i , ln
t = j|v
t = k|v
123 : t ) kd ) hn
not tha the gra log p ( ln 123 : t ) , vs
t = k ) p ( ln
t = k|v
t ) in the fra - bas tra alg .
abo can be vie as bac - pro the err ( ln
t = k ) p ( ln
apr 123 , 123
in imp the abo lea alg for a dbn - dnn , the dnn wei can rst be ne - tun to
opt the per fra cro ent .
the tra par can be ini fro the com of the
hmm tra mat and the pho lan mod sco , and can be fur opt by tun the
tra fea whi xin the dnn wei bef the joi opt .
usi the joi opt wit
car sch , we obs tha the seq mmi tra can out the fra - lev tra by abo
123 rel wit the sam sys in the sam lab .
con dnn for pho cla and rec
the pre cit wor rep pho rec res on the tim dat .
in rec
exp , the inp is the aco inp for the who utt whi the out is the spo pho seq .
a dec pro usi a pho lan mod is use to pro thi out seq .
pho cla
is a dif tas whe the aco inp has alr bee lab wit the cor bou bet dif
pho uni and the goa is to cla the pho con on the giv bou .
in ( 123 ) con
dbn - dnn wer int and suc app to var aud tas inc pho cla on the
tim dat .
in thi mod , the rbm was mad con in tim by sha wei bet hid
uni tha det the sam fea at dif tim .
a max - poo ope was the per whi tak the
max act ove a poo of adj hid uni tha sha the sam wei but app the at dif
thi yie som tem inv .
alt con mod alo the tem dim ach goo cla res ( 123 ) , app
the to pho rec is not str .
thi is bec tem var in spe can be par
han by the dyn pro pro in the hmm com and tho asp of tem var tha
can be ade han by the hmm can be add mor exp and eff by hid tra
the wor rep in ( 123 ) app loc con lte wit max - poo to the fre rat tha
tim dim of the spe .
sha - wei and poo ove fre was mot by the shi in
for fre cau by spe var .
it pro som spe inv whi als off noi
rob due to the ban - lim nat of the lte .
( 123 ) onl use wei - sha and max - poo acr
nea fre bec , unl fea tha occ at dif pos in ima , aco fea occ
at ver dif fre are ver dif .
a sum of the dif bet dnn and gmm
her we sum the mai dif bet the dnn and gmm use in the tim exp des
so far in thi pap .
fir , one maj ele of the dbn - dnn , the rbm whi ser as the bui blo for
pre - tra , is an ins of pro of exp ( 123 ) , in con to mix mod tha are a sum of exp .
mix mod wit a lar num of com use the par ine bec eac par
123 mod hav onl ver rec bee exp in spe pro e . g . , ( 123 ) .
apr 123 , 123
onl app to a ver sma fra of the dat whe eac par of a pro mod is con by a
lar fra of the dat .
sec , whi bot dnn and gmm are non mod , the nat of the non
is ver dif .
thi , dnn are goo at exp mul fra of inp coe whe gmm tha
use dia cov mat ben muc les fro mul fra bec the req dec inp .
fin , dnn are lea usi sto gra des , whi gmm are lea usi the em alg or
its ext ( 123 ) whi mak gmm lea muc eas to par on a clu mac .
com dbn - dnn wit gmm for lar - voc spe rec
the suc of dbn - dnn on tim tas sta in 123 mot mor amb exp wit muc
lar voc and mor var spe sty .
in thi sec , we rev exp by thr dif spe
gro on ve dif ben tas for lar voc spe rec .
to mak dbn - dnn wor rea
wel on lar voc tas it is imp to rep the mon hmm use for tim ( and als for
ear neu net / hmm hyb sys ) wit tri hmm tha hav man tho of tie sta ( 123 ) .
pre the con - dep sta pro sev adv ove mon tar .
the sup mor
bit of inf per fra in the lab .
the als mak it pos to use a mor pow tri hmm
dec and to exp the sen cla dis by the dec tre clu tha is use to tie the sta of
dif tri hmm .
usi con - dep hmm sta , it is pos to out sta - of - the - art bmm
tra gmm - hmm sys wit a two - hid - lay neu net wit usi any pre - tra ( 123 ) , tho
usi mor hid lay and pre - tra wor eve bet .
bin - voi - sea spe rec tas
the rst suc use of aco mod bas on dbn - dnn for a lar voc tas use dat col
fro the bin mob voi sea app ( bmv ) .
the tas use 123 hou of tra dat wit a hig deg
of aco var cau by noi , mus , sid - spe , acc , slo pro , hes , rep ,
int , and mob pho dif .
the res rep in ( 123 ) dem tha the bes dnn - hmm
aco mod tra wit con - dep sta as tar ach a sen acc of 123 on the tes
set , com wit 123 for a str , mpe tra gmm - hmm bas .
the dbn - dnn use in the exp was bas on one of the dbn - dnn tha wor wel for the tim
it use ve pre - tra lay of hid uni wit 123 , 123 uni per lay and was tra to cla the cen
fra of an 123 fra aco con win usi 123 pos con - dep sta as tar .
in add
to dem tha a dbn - dnn cou pro gai on a lar voc tas , sev oth imp iss
wer exp inv in ( 123 ) .
it was fou tha usi tie tri con - dep sta tar was cru
and cle sup to usi mon sta tar , eve whe the lat wer der fro the sam for
ali wit the sam bas .
it was als con tha the low the err rat of the sys use dur for
ali to gen fra lev tra lab for the neu net , the low the err rat of the nal neu - net
bas sys .
thi eff was con acr all the ali the tri , inc mon ali ,
apr 123 , 123
ali fro max lik tra gmm - hmm sys , and ali fro dis tra
fur wor aft tha of ( 123 ) ext the dnn - hmm aco mod fro 123 hou of tra dat to 123
hou , and exp the res rol of pre - tra and ne - tun the dbn - dnn ( 123 ) .
as exp , pre - tra
is hel in tra the dbn - dnn bec it ini the dbn - dnn wei to a poi in the wei - spa
fro whi ne - tun is hig eff .
how , a mod inc of the amo of unl pre - tra
dat has an ins eff on the nal rec res ( 123 to 123 ) , as lon as the ori tra set
is fai lar .
by con , the sam amo of add lab ne - tun tra dat sig imp
the per of the dnn - hmm ( acc fro 123 to 123 ) .
swi spe rec tas
the dnn - hmm tra rec dev for the bin voi sea dat was app una to the swi
spe rec tas ( 123 ) to con the sui of dnn - hmm aco mod for lar voc tas .
bef thi wor , dnn - hmm aco mod had onl bee tra wit up to 123 hou of dat ( 123 ) and hun
of tie tri sta as tar , whe thi wor use ove 123 hou of tra dat and tho of tie
tri sta as tar .
fur , swi is a pub ava spe - to - tex tra ben
tas tha all muc mor rig com amo tec .
the bas gmm - hmm sys on the swi tas was tra usi the sta 123 - hou swi - i
tra set .
123 - dim plp fea wit win mea - var nor wer con wit up
to thi - ord der and red to 123 dim by hdl , a for of lin dis ana ( lda ) .
the spe - ind cro tri use the com lef - to - rig 123 - sta top and sha 123 tie
the bas gmm - hmm sys had a mix of 123 gau per ( tie ) hmm sta tha wer rst tra
gen to opt a max lik ( ml ) cri and the ren dis to opt a
boo max - mut - inf ( bmm ) cri .
a sev - hid - lay dbn - dnn wit 123 uni in eac
lay and ful con bet adj lay rep the gmm in the aco mod .
the tri lan
mod , use for bot sys , was tra on the tra tra of the 123 - hou of the fis cor and
int wit a tri mod tra on wri tex .
the pri tes set is the fsh por of the 123 - hou spr 123 nis ric tra set ( rt1 )
ii ext fro the lit sho a sum of the cor res .
usi a dnn red the wor - err rat
( wer ) fro the 123 of the bas gmm - hmm ( tra wit bmm ) to 123 a 123 rel red .
the dnn - hmm sys tra on 123 hou per as wel as com sev spe - ada , mul - pas
sys whi use voc tra len nor ( vtl ) and nea sev tim as muc aco tra
dat ( the 123 fis cor ) ( 123 , las row ) .
det exp ( 123 ) on the swi tas con tha the rem acc gai fro the dnn -
hmm aco mod are due to the dir mod of tie tri sta usi the dbn - dnn , the eff
apr 123 , 123
com ve dif dbn - dnn aco mod wit two str gmm - hmm bas sys tha are dis tra ( dt ) .
spe - ind ( si ) tra on 123 hou of dat and sin - pas dec wer use for all mod exc for the gmm - hmm sys
sho on the las row whi use spe ada ( sa ) tra wit 123 hou of dat and mul - pas dec inc hyp
com .
in the tab , 123 mix mea a mix of 123 gau per hmm sta and 123 nz mea 123 mil , non - zer wei .
wor - err rat ( wer ) in % are sho for two sep tes set , hub - swb and rt1 - fsh .
gmm , 123 mix dt 123 si
nn 123 hid - lay uni
+ 123 nei fra
dbn - dnn 123 hid lay uni 123
+ upd sta ali
gmm 123 mix dt 123 sa
exp of nei fra by the dbn - dnn , and the str mod pow of dee net , as was
dis in the bin voi sea tas ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
pre - tra the dbn - dnn lea to the bes res but it is
not cri : for thi tas , it pro an abs wer red of les tha 123 and thi gai is eve sma
whe usi ve or mor hid lay .
for und - res lan tha hav sma amo of lab dat ,
pre - tra is lik to be far mor hel .
fur stu ( 123 ) sug tha fea - eng tec suc as hld and vtl , com use in
gmm - hmm , are mor hel for sha neu net tha for dbn - dnn , pre bec dbn - dnn are
abl to lea app fea in the low lay .
goo voi inp spe rec tas
goo voi inp tra voi sea que , sho mes , ema and use act fro mob dev .
thi is a lar voc tas tha use a lan mod des for a mix of sea que and dic .
goo ful - blo mod for thi tas , whi was bui fro a ver lar cor , use a spe - ind
gmm - hmm mod com of con dep cro - wor tri hmm tha hav a lef - to - rig , thr -
sta top .
thi mod has a tot of 123 sen sta and use as aco inp plp fea tha hav bee
tra by lda .
sem - tie cov ( stc ) are use in the gmm to mod the lda tra fea
and bmm ( 123 ) was use to tra the mod dis .
jai et .
( 123 ) use thi mod to obt app 123 , 123 hou of ali tra dat for a dbn - dnn
aco mod tha pre the 123 , 123 hmm sta pos fro the aco inp .
the dbn - dnn was loo
bas on one of the dbn - dnn use for the tim tas .
it had fou hid lay wit 123 , 123 ful con
uni per lay and a nal sof lay wit 123 , 123 alt sta .
its inp was 123 con fra of 123
log lte - ban out wit no tem der .
eac dbn - dnn lay was pre - tra for one epo as an
rbm and the the res dnn was dis ne - tun for one epo .
wei wit mag bel
apr 123 , 123
a thr wer the per set to zer bef a fur qua epo of tra .
one thi of the wei
in the nal net wer zer .
in add to the dbn - dnn tra , seq lev dis ne - tun
of the neu net was per usi mmi , sim to the met pro in ( 123 ) .
mod com
was the use to com res fro the gmm - hmm sys wit the dnn - hmm hyb , usi the sca
fra ( 123 ) .
vit dec was don usi the goo sys ( 123 ) wit mod to com the sca
log lik fro the est of the pos pro and the sta pri .
unl the oth sys , it was
obs tha for voi inp it was ess to smo the est pri for goo per .
thi smo
of the pri was per by res the log pri wit a mul tha was cho by usi a gri sea to
nd a joi opt of the lan mod wei , the wor ins pen and the smo fac .
on a tes set of ano utt fro the liv voi inp sys , the dbn - dnn - bas sys ach
a wor err rat of 123 a 123 rel red com to the bes gmm - bas sys for thi tas .
mmi seq dis tra gav an err rat of 123 and mod com wit the gmm sys
you spe rec tas
in thi tas , the goa is to tra you dat .
unl the mob voi inp app des abo ,
thi app doe not hav a str lan mod to con the int of the aco inf
so goo dis req an acc aco mod .
goo ful - blo bas , bui wit a muc lar tra set , was use to cre app 123 hou
of ali tra dat .
thi was use to cre a new bas sys for whi the inp was 123 fra of mfc
tha wer tra by lda .
spe ada tra was per , and dec tre clu was use to
obt 123 , 123 tri sta .
sem - tie cov wer use in the gmm to mod the fea .
the aco
mod wer fur imp wit bmm .
dur dec , fea spa max lik lin reg
( fml ) and max lik lin reg ( mll ) tra wer app .
the aco dat use for tra the dbn - dnn aco mod wer the fml tra fea
lar num of hmm sta add sig to the com bur , sin mos of the com is
don at the out lay .
to red thi bur , the dnn use onl fou hid lay wit 123 uni in the rst
hid lay and onl 123 in eac of the lay abo .
abo ten epo of tra wer per on thi dat bef seq lev tra and mod com .
the dbn - dnn gav an abs imp of 123 ove the bas sys wer of 123 .
seq lev
ne - tun of the dbn - dnn fur imp res by 123 and mod com pro an add gai
eng - bro - new spe rec tas
dnn hav als bee suc app to an eng bro new tas .
sin a gmm - hmm bas cre
the ini tra lab for the dnn , it is imp to hav a goo bas sys .
all gmm - hmm sys
apr 123 , 123
a com of the per wor err rat usi dnn - hmm and gmm - hmm on ve dif lar voc tas .
wit sam dat
wit mor dat
swi ( tes set 123 )
swi ( tes set 123 )
eng bro new
bin voi sea
( sen err rat )
goo voi inp
123 ( 123 hrs )
123 ( 123 hrs )
cre at ibm use the fol rec to pro a sta - of - the - art bas sys .
fir spe - ind
( si ) fea are cre , fol by spe - ada tra ( sat ) and dis tra ( dt ) fea .
spe , giv ini plp fea , a set of si fea are cre usi lin dis ana ( lda ) .
fur pro of lda fea is per to cre sat fea usi voc tra len nor
( vtl ) fol by fea spa max lik lin reg ( fml ) .
fin , fea and mod -
spa dis tra is app usi the the boo max mut inf ( bmm ) or min
pho err ( mpe ) cri .
usi ali fro a bas sys , ( 123 ) tra a dbn - dnn aco mod on 123 hou of dat fro the
123 and 123 eng bro new spe cor ( 123 ) .
the dbn - dnn was tra wit the bes - per
lvc fea , nam sat + dt fea .
the dbn - dnn arc con of 123 hid lay wit 123 , 123
uni per lay and a nal sof lay of 123 , 123 con - dep sta .
the sat fea inp int the rst
lay use a con of 123 fra .
pre - tra was per fol a rec sim to ( 123 ) .
two pha of ne - tun wer per .
dur the rst pha , the cro - ent los was use .
for cro -
ent tra , aft eac ite thr the who tra set , los is mea on a hel - out set and the
lea rat is ann ( i . e .
red ) by a fac of 123 if the hel - out los has gro or imp by les tha
a thr of 123 fro the pre ite .
onc the lea rat has bee ann ve tim , the rst
pha of ne - tun sto .
aft wei are lea via cro - ent , the wei are use as a sta poi
for a sec pha of ne - tun usi a seq cri ( 123 ) whi uti the mpe obj fun , a
dis obj fun sim to mmi ( 123 ) but whi tak int acc pho err rat .
a str sat gmm - hmm bas sys , whi con of 123 , 123 con - dep sta and 123 , 123
gau , gav a wer of 123 on the ear dev - 123 set , whe the dnn - hmm sys gav 123 ( 123 ) .
sum of the mai res for dbn - dnn aco mod on lvc tas
tab iii sum the aco mod res des abo .
it sho tha dnn - hmm con
out gmm - hmm tha are tra on the sam amo of dat , som by a lar mar .
for som
tas , dnn - hmm als out gmm - hmm tha are tra on muc mor dat .
apr 123 , 123
spe up dnn at rec tim
sta pru or gau sel met can be use to mak gmm - hmm sys com efc
at rec tim .
a dnn , how , use vir all its par at eve fra to com sta lik ,
mak it pot muc slo tha a gmm wit a com num of par .
for , the tim tha
a dnn - hmm sys req to rec 123 of spe can be red fro 123 to 123 , wit dec
rec acc , by qua the wei dow to 123 bit and usi the ver fas sim pri for xed -
poi com tha are pro by a mod x12 cpu ( 123 ) .
alt , it can be red to 123 by usi
alt pre - tra met for dnn
pre - tra dnn as gen mod led to bet rec res on tim and sub on a var
of lvc tas .
onc it was sho tha dbn - dnn cou lea goo aco mod , fur res rev
tha the cou be tra in man dif way .
it is pos to lea a dnn by sta wit a sha neu
net wit a sin hid lay .
onc thi net has bee tra dis , a sec hid lay is int
bet the rst hid lay and the sof out uni and the who net is aga dis tra .
thi can be con unt the des num of hid lay is rea , aft whi ful bac
ne - tun is app .
thi typ of dis pre - tra wor wel in pra , app the acc ach by gen
dbn pre - tra and fur imp can be ach by sto the dis pre - tra aft a sin
epo ins of mul epo as rep in ( 123 ) .
dis pre - tra has als bee fou eff
for the arc cal dee con net ( 123 ) and dee sta net ( 123 ) , whe pre - tra is
acc by con opt inv no gen mod .
pur dis tra of the who dnn fro ran ini wei wor muc bet tha had bee
tho , pro the sca of the ini wei are set car , a lar amo of lab tra dat is ava ,
and min - bat siz ove tra epo are set app ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
nev , gen pre - tra sti
imp tes per , som by a sig amo .
lay - by - lay gen pre - tra was ori don usi rbm , but var typ of aut wit
one hid lay can als be use ( see gur 123 ) .
on vis tas , per sim to rbm can be ach
by pre - tra wit den aut ( 123 ) tha are reg by set a sub of the inp to zer
or con aut ( 123 ) tha are reg by pen the gra of the act of the hid
uni wit res to the inp .
for spe rec , imp per was ach on bot tim and
bro new tas by pre - tra wit a typ of aut tha tri to nd spa cod ( 123 ) .
alt ne - tun met for dnn
ver lar gmm aco mod are tra by mak use of the par ava in com clu .
it is mor dif to use the par of clu sys eff whe tra dbn - dnn .
at pre , the
apr 123 , 123
an aut is tra to min the dis bet the inp vec and its rec of the inp vec on its out
if the cod uni and the out uni are bot lin and the dis is the squ rec err , an aut nds the
sam sol as pri com ana ( up to a rot of the com ) .
if the out uni and the cod uni are log , an
aut is qui sim to an rbm tha is tra usi con div , but it doe not wor as wel for pre - tra dnn unl it
is str reg in an app way .
if ext hid lay are add bef and / or aft the cod lay , an aut can com
dat muc bet tha pri com ana ( 123 ) .
mos eff par met is to par the mat ope usi a gpu .
thi giv a spe - up of
bet one and two ord of mag , but the ne - tun sta rem a ser bot and mor eff
way of par tra are nee .
som rec att are des in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
mos dbn - dnn aco mod are ne - tun by app sto gra des wit mom to
sma min - bat of tra cas .
mor sop opt met tha can be use on lar min -
bat inc non - lin con - gra ( 123 ) , lbf ( 123 ) and hes fre met ada to wor for
dee neu net ( 123 ) .
how , the ne - tun of dnn aco mod is typ sto ear to pre
ove and it is not cle tha the mor sop met are wor for suc inc opt .
oth way of usi dee neu net for spe rec
the pre sec rev exp in whi gmm wer rep by dbn - dnn aco mod to
giv hyb dnn - hmm sys in whi the pos pro ove hmm sta pro by the dbn - dnn
rep the gmm out mod .
in thi sec , we des two oth way of usi dnn for spe rec .
usi dbn - dnn to pro inp fea for gmm - hmm sys
her we des a cla of met whe neu net are use to pro the fea vec tha the
gmm in a gmm - hmm sys is tra to mod .
the mos com app to ext the fea vec
is to dis tra a ran ini neu net wit a nar bot mid lay and to use the
act of the bot hid uni as fea .
for a sum of suc met , com kno as the
tan app , see ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
apr 123 , 123
rec , ( 123 ) inv a les dir way of pro fea vec for the gmm .
fir , a dnn wit
six hid lay of 123 uni eac was tra to ach goo cla acc for the 123 hmm sta
rep in its sof out lay .
thi dnn did not hav a bot lay and it was the abl to
cla bet tha a dnn wit a bot .
the the 123 log com by the dnn as inp to its sof
lay wer com dow to 123 val usi a 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 aut .
thi met of pro fea
vec is cal ae - bn bec the bot is in the aut rat tha in the dnn tha is tra to
cla hmm sta .
bot fea exp wer con on 123 hou and 123 hou of dat fro the 123 and 123
eng bro new spe col and eng bro aud fro tdt - 123
the bas gmm - hmm
aco mod tra on 123 hou was the sam aco mod des in sec iv - e .
the aco mod
tra on 123 hou had 123 , 123 sta and 123 , 123 gau .
aga , the sta ibm lvc rec des
in sec iv - e was use to cre a set of spe - ada , dis tra fea and mod .
all dbn - dnn use sat fea as inp .
the wer pre - tra as dbn and the dis ne - tun
to pre tar val for 123 hmm sta tha wer obt by clu the con - dep sta in the
bas gmm - hmm sys .
as in sec iv - e , the dbn - dnn was tra usi the cro - ent cri ,
fol by the seq cri wit the sam ann and sto rul .
aft the tra of the rst dbn - dnn ter , the nal set of wei was use for gen the 123
log at the out lay .
a sec 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 dbn - dnn was the tra as an aut - enc to red the
dim of the out log .
the gmm - hmm sys tha use the fea vec pro by the ae - bn
was tra usi fea and mod spa dis tra .
bot pre - tra and the use of dee net
mad the ae - bn fea wor bet for rec .
to fai com the per of the sys tha use
the ae - bn fea wit the bas gmm - hmm sys , the aco mod of the ae - bn fea was tra
wit the sam num of sta and gau as the bas sys .
tab iv sho the res of the ae - bn and bas sys on bot 123 and 123 hou , for dif ste in
the lvc rec des in sec iv - e .
on 123 hou , the ae - bn sys off a 123 abs imp
ove the bas gmm - hmm sys whi is the sam imp as the dbn - dnn , whi on 123 hou the
ae - bn sys pro a 123 imp ove the bas .
the 123 wer is the bes res to dat on the
dev - 123 tas , usi an aco mod tra on 123 hou of dat .
fin , the com of the ae - bn
and bas met is exp by per mod com on bot the 123 and 123 hou tas .
tab iv
sho tha mod - com pro an add 123 abs imp ove ind sys on the
123 hou tas , and a 123 abs imp ove the ind sys on the 123 hou tas , con the
com of the ae - bn and bas sys .
ins of rep the coe usu mod by gmm , neu net can als be use to pro
add fea for the gmm to mod ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
dbn - dnn hav rec bee sho to be ver eff
in suc tan sys .
on the aur tes set , pre - tra dec wor err rat by mor tha one thi
for spe wit sig - to - noi lev of 123 or mor , tho thi eff alm dis for ver hig noi
apr 123 , 123
wer in % on eng bro new
usi dnn to est art fea for det - bas spe rec
a rec stu ( 123 ) dem the eff of dbn - dnn for det sub - pho spe att
( als kno as pho or art fea ( 123 ) ) in the wid use wal str jou spe dat
( 123 - wsj ) .
123 mfc plu rst and sec tem der wer use as the sho - tim spe rep
of the spe sig .
the pho lab wer der fro the for ali gen usi a gmm - hmm
sys tra wit max lik , and tha hmm sys had 123 tie - sta , cro - wor tri - pho , eac
mod by a mix of 123 gau .
the att lab wer gen by map pho lab to att ,
sim the ove cha of the art fea .
the 123 att use in the rec wor ,
as rep in ( 123 ) , are a sub of the art fea exp in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
dbn - dnn ach les tha hal the err rat of sha neu net wit a sin hid lay
arc wit 123 to 123 hid lay and up to 123 hid uni per lay wer exp , pro gre
tha 123 fra - lev acc for all 123 att tes in the ful dnn sys .
on the sam dat , dbn - dnn
als ach a ver hig per fra pho cla acc of 123 .
thi lev of acc for det
sub - pho fun spe uni may all a new fam of exi spe rec and und
sys tha mak use of pho fea in the ful det - bas fra dis in ( 123 ) .
sum and fut dir
whe gmm wer rst use for aco mod the wer tra as gen mod usi the em alg
and it was som tim bef res sho tha sig gai cou be ach by a sub sta of
dis tra usi an obj fun mor clo rel to the ult goa of an asr sys ( 123 ) ,
whe neu net wer rst use the wer tra dis and it was onl rec tha res
sho tha sig gai cou be ach by add an ini sta of gen pre - tra tha com
ign the ult goa of the sys .
the pre - tra is muc mor hel in dee neu net tha in sha
one , esp whe lim amo of lab tra dat are ava .
it red ove and it als red
the tim req for dis ne - tun wit bac whi was one of the mai imp to
usi dnn whe neu net wer rst use in pla of gmm in the 123 .
the suc ach usi
apr 123 , 123
pre - tra led to a res of int in dnn for aco mod .
ret , it is now cle tha
mos of the gai com fro usi dee neu net to exp inf in nei fra and fro
mod tie con - dep sta .
pre - tra is hel in red ove , and it doe red the tim
tak for ne - tun , but sim red in tra tim can be ach wit les eff by car cho of
the sca of the ini ran wei in eac lay .
the rst met to be use for pre - tra dnn was to lea a sta of rbm , one per hid lay of the
an rbm is an und gen mod tha use bin lat var , but tra it by max
lik is exp so a muc fas , app met cal con div is use .
thi met has
str sim to tra an aut net ( a non - lin ver of pca ) tha con eac dat
int a cod fro whi it is eas to app rec the dat .
sub res sho tha
aut net wit one lay of log hid uni als wor wel for pre - tra , esp if the are
reg by add noi to the inp or by con the cod to be ins to sma cha in the
rbm do not req suc reg bec the ber noi int by usi sto bin
hid uni act as a ver str reg .
we hav des how thr maj spe res gro ach sig imp in a var
of sta - of - the - art asr sys by rep gmm wit dnn , and we bel tha the is the pot for
con fur imp .
the is no rea to bel tha we are cur usi the opt typ of
hid uni or the opt net arc and it is hig lik tha bot the pre - tra and ne - tun
alg can be mod to red the amo of ove and the amo of com .
we the exp
tha the per gap bet aco mod tha use dnn and one tha use gmm wil con to inc
for som tim .
cur , the big dis of dnn com wit gmm is tha it is muc har to mak goo use of
lar clu mac to tra the on mas dat .
thi is off by the fac tha dnn mak mor efc
use of dat so the do not req as muc dat to ach the sam per , but bet way of par
the ne - tun of dnn is sti a maj iss .
