neu pro lan mod ( npl ) hav bee sho to be com - tiv wit and occ sup to the wid - use n - gra lan mod .
the mai dra of npl is the ext lon tra and tes tim .
mor and ben hav pro a hie lan mod bui aro a bin tre of wor , whi was two ord of mag fas tha the non - hie mod it was bas on .
how , it per con wor tha its non - hie cou in spi of usi a wor tre cre usi exp kno .
we int a fas hie lan mod alo wit a sim fea - bas alg for aut con of wor tre fro the dat .
we the sho tha the res mod can out non - hie neu mod as wel as the bes n - gra mod .
sta lan mod is con wit bui pro mod of wor seq .
suc mod can be use to dis pro seq fro imp one , a tas imp for per spe rec , inf ret , and mac tra .
the vas maj of sta lan mod are bas on the mar ass , whi sta tha the dis - tio of a wor dep onl on som xed num of wor tha imm pre it .
whi thi ass is cle fal , it is ver con bec it red the pro of mod the pro dis of wor seq of arb len to the pro of mod the dis on the nex wor giv som xed num of pre wor , cal the con .
we wil den thi dis by p ( wn| : n12 ) , whe wn is the nex wor and w12 : n12 is the con ( w12 , . . . , wn1 ) .
n - gra lan mod are the mos pop sta lan mod due to the sim and sur goo per .
the mod are sim con pro tab for p ( wn| : n12 ) , est by cou the n - tup in the tra dat and nor the cou app .
sin the num of n - tup is exp in n , smo the raw cou is ess for ach goo per .
the is a lar num of smo met ava for n - gra mod ( 123 ) .
in spi of the sop smo met dev for the , n - gra mod are una to tak adv of lar con sin the dat spa pro bec ext .
the mai rea for thi beh is the fac tha cla n - gra mod are ess con pro tab whe dif ent are est ind of eac oth .
the mod do not tak adv of the fac tha sim wor occ in sim con , bec the hav no con of sim .
cla - bas n - gra mod ( 123 ) aim to add thi iss by clu wor and / or con int cla bas on the usa pat and the usi thi cla inf to imp gen .
whi it can imp n - gra per , thi app int a ver rig kin of sim , sin eac wor typ bel to exa one cla .
an alt and muc mor exi app to cou the dat spa pro is to rep eac wor usi a rea - val fea vec tha cap its pro , so tha wor
use in sim con wil hav sim fea vec .
the the con pro of the nex wor can be mod as a smo fun of the fea vec of the con wor and the nex wor .
thi app pro aut smo , sin for a giv con sim wor are now gua to be ass sim pro .
sim , sim con are now lik to hav sim rep res in sim pre for the nex wor .
mos mod bas on thi app use a fee - for neu net to map the fea vec of the con wor to the dis for the nex wor ( e . g .
( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) .
per the bes kno mod of thi typ is the neu pro lan mod ( 123 ) , whi has bee sho to out n - gra mod on a dat of abo one mil wor .
123 the hie neu net lan mod
the mai dra of the npl and oth sim mod is tha the are ver slo to tra and tes ( 123 ) .
sin com the pro of the nex wor req exp nor ove all wor in the voc , the cos of com the pro of the giv nex wor and the cos of com the ful dis ove the nex wor are vir the sam the tak tim lin in the voc siz .
sin com the exa gra in suc mod req rep com the pro of the nex wor giv its con and upd the mod par to inc tha pro , tra tim is als lin in the voc siz .
typ nat lan dat hav voc con ten of tho of wor , whi mea tha tra npl - lik mod the str way is usu too com exp in pra .
one way to spe up the pro is to use a spe imp sam pro to app the gra req for lea ( 123 ) .
how , whi thi met can spe up tra sub , tes rem com exp .
the hie npl int in ( 123 ) , pro an exp red in tim com of lea and tes as com to the npl .
it ach thi red by rep the uns - tur voc of the npl by a bin tre tha rep a hie clu of wor in the voc .
eac wor cor to a lea in the tre and can be uni spe by the pat fro the roo to tha lea .
if n is the num of wor in the voc and the tre is bal - anc , any wor can be spe by a seq of o ( log n ) bin dec ind whi of the two chi of the cur nod is to be vis nex .
thi set rep one n - way cho by a seq of o ( log n ) bin cho .
in pro ter , one n - way nor is rep by a seq of o ( log n ) loc ( bin ) nor .
as a res , a dis ove wor in the voc can be spe by pro the pro of vis the lef chi at eac of the nod .
in the hie npl , the loc pro are com by giv a ver of the npl the fea vec for the con wor as wel as a fea vec for the cur nod as inp .
the pro of the nex wor is the giv by the pro of mak a seq of bin dec tha cor to the pat to tha wor .
whe app to a dat of abo one mil wor , thi mod out cla - bas tri , but per con wor tha the npl ( 123 ) .
the hie mod how was mor tha two ord of mag fas tha the npl .
the mai lim of thi wor was the pro use to con the tre of wor for the mod .
the tre was obt by sta wit the wor is - a tax and con it int a bin tre thr a com of man and dat - dri pro .
our goa is to rep thi pro by an aut met for bui tre fro the tra dat wit req exp kno of any kin .
we wil als exp the per ben of usi tre whe eac wor can occ mor tha onc .
123 the log - bil mod
we wil use the log - bil lan mod ( lbl ) ( 123 ) as the fou of our hie mod bec of its exc per and sim .
lik vir all neu lan mod , the lbl mod rep eac wor wit a rea - val fea vec .
we wil den the fea vec for wor w by rw and ref to the mat con all the fea vec as r .
to pre the nex wor wn giv the con w12 : n12 , the mod com the pre fea vec r for the nex wor by lin com the con wor fea vec :
whe ci is the wei mat ass wit the con pos i .
the the sim bet the pre fea vec and the fea vec for eac wor in the voc is com usi the inn pro .
the sim are the exp and nor to obt the dis ove the nex wor :
p ( wn = w|w : n12 ) =
exp ( rt rw + bw ) pj exp ( rt rj + bj )
her bw is the bia for wor w , whi is use to cap the con - ind wor fre .
not tha the lbl mod can be int as a spe kin of a fee - for neu net wit one lin hid lay and a sof out lay .
the inp to the net are the fea vec for the con wor , whi the mat of wei fro the hid lay to the out lay is sim the fea vec mat r .
the vec of act of the hid uni cor to the the pre fea vec for the nex wor .
unl the npl , the lbl mod nee to com the hid act onl onc per pre and has no non in its hid lay .
in spi of its sim the lbl mod per ver wel , out bot the npl and the n - gra mod on a fai lar dat ( 123 ) .
123 the hie log - bil mod
our hie lan mod is bas on the hie mod fro ( 123 ) .
the dis fea of our mod are the use of the log - bil lan mod for com the pro at eac nod and the abi to han mul occ of eac wor in the tre .
not tha the ide of usi mul wor occ in a tre was pro in ( 123 ) , but it was not imp .
the rst com of the hie log - bil mod ( hlb ) is a bin tre wit wor at its lea .
for now , we wil ass tha eac wor in the voc is at exa one lea .
the eac wor can be uni spe by a pat fro the roo of the tre to the lea nod the wor is at .
the pat its can be enc as a bin str d of dec mad at eac nod , so tha di = 123 cor to the dec to vis the lef chi of the cur nod .
for exa , the str 123 cor to a pat tha sta at the roo , vis its lef chi , and the vis the rig chi of tha chi .
thi all eac wor to be rep by a bin str whi we wil cal a cod .
the sec com of the hlb mod is the pro mod for mak the dec at eac nod , whi in our cas is a mod ver of the lbl mod .
in the hlb mod , jus lik in its non - hie cou , con wor are rep usi rea - val fea vec .
eac of the non - lea nod in the tre als has a fea vec ass wit it tha is use for dis the wor in the lef sub for the wor in the rig sub of the nod .
unl the con wor , the wor bei pre are rep usi the bin cod tha are det by the wor tre .
how , thi rep is sti qui exi , sin eac bin dig in the cod enc a dec mad at a nod , whi dep on tha nod fea vec .
in the hlb mod , the pro of the nex wor bei w is the pro of mak the seq of bin dec spe by the wor cod , giv the con .
sin the pro of mak a dec at a nod dep onl on the pre fea vec , det by the con , and the fea vec for tha nod , we can exp the pro of the nex wor as a pro of pro of the bin dec :
p ( wn = w|w : n12 ) = y
p ( di| , w12 : n12 ) ,
whe di is ith dig in the cod for wor w , and qi is the fea vec for the ith nod in the pat cor to tha cod .
the pro of eac dec is giv by
whe ( x ) is the log fun and r is the pre fea vec com usi eq .
bi in the equ is the nod bia tha cap the con - ind ten to vis the lef chi whe lea thi nod .
p ( di = 123 , w12 : n12 ) = ( rt qi + bi ) ,
the den of p ( wn = w|w : n12 ) can be ext to mul cod per wor by inc a sum ove all cod for w as fol :
p ( wn = w|w : n12 ) = x
p ( di| , w12 : n12 ) ,
whe d ( w ) is a set of cod cor to wor w .
all mul cod per wor can all bet pre of wor tha hav mul sen or mul usa pat .
usi mul cod per wor als mak it eas to com sev sep wor hie to int a sin one to to ree the fac tha no sin hie can exp all the rel bet wor .
usi the lbl mod ins of the npl for com the loc pro all us to avo com the non in the hid lay whi mak our hie mod fas at mak - ing pre tha the hie npl .
mor imp , the hie npl nee to com the hid act onc for eac of the o ( log n ) dec , whi the hlb mod com the pre fea vec jus onc per pre .
how , the tim com of com the pro for a sin bin dec in an lbl mod is sti qua in the fea vec dim d , whi mig mak the use of hig - dim fea vec too com exp .
we mak the tim com lin in d by res the wei mat ci to be dia . 123 not tha for a con of siz 123 , thi res doe not red the rep pow of the mod bec the con wei mat c12 can be abs int the wor fea vec .
and whi thi res doe mak the mod wit lar con sli les pow , we bel tha thi los is mor tha com for by muc fas tra tim whi all usi mor com tre .
hlb mod can be tra by max the ( pen ) log - lik .
sin the pro of the nex wor dep onl on the con wei , the fea vec of the con wor , and the fea vec of the nod on the pat fro the roo to the lea con the wor in que , onl a ( log ) sma fra of the par nee to be upd for eac tra cas .
123 hie clu of wor
the rst ste in tra a hie lan mod is con a bin tre of wor for the mod to use .
thi can be don by usi exp kno , dat - dri met , or a com of the two .
for exa , in ( 123 ) the tre was con fro the is - a tax dag fro wor ( 123 ) .
aft pre the tax by han to ens tha eac nod had onl one par , dat - dri hie bin clu was per on the chi of the nod in the tax tha had mor tha two chi , res in a bin tre .
we are int in usi a pur lea app app in sit whe the exp kno - edg is una .
it is als not cle tha usi exp kno , eve whe it is ava , wil lea to sup per .
hie bin clu of wor bas on the the usa sta is a nat cho for gen bin tre of wor aut .
thi tas is sim to the tas of clu wor int cla for tra cla - bas n - gra mod , for whi a lar num of alg has bee pro .
we con sev of the alg bef dec - ing to use our own alg whi tur out to be sur eff in spi of its sim .
how , we wil men two exi alg tha mig be sui for pro bin wor hie .
sin we wan an alg tha sca wel to lar voc , we res our att to the top - dow hie clu alg , as the ten to sca bet tha the agg cou ( 123 ) .
the alg fro ( 123 ) pro exa the kin of bin tre we nee , exc tha its tim com is cub in the voc siz . 123 we als con the dis clu alg ( 123 ) but dec not to use it bec of the dif inv in usi con of mor tha one wor for clu .
thi pro is sha by mos n - gra clu alg , so we wil des it in som det .
sin we wou lik to clu wor for eas pre of the nex wor bas on its con , it is nat to des eac wor in ter of the con tha can pre it .
for exa , for a sin - wor con one suc des is the
of con wei for pos i and den the ele pro of two vec .
123 the fea vec for the nex wor can now be com as r = pn1 123 pre , the tim com of the alg is cub in the num of the fre wor , but tha
is sti to slo for our pur .
ci rwi , whe ci is a vec
dis of wor tha pre the wor of int in the tra dat .
the pro bec app whe we con usi lar con : the num of con tha can pot pre - ced a wor gro exp in the con siz .
thi is the ver sam dat spa pro tha aff the n - gra mod , whi is not sur , sin we are try to des wor in ter of exp lar ( nor ) cou vec .
thu , clu wor bas on suc lar - con rep bec non - tri due to the com cos inv as wel as the sta dif cau by the spa of the dat .
we avo the dif by ope on low - dim rea - val wor rep in our tre - bui pro .
sin we nee to tra a mod to obt wor fea vec , we per the fol boo pro : we gen a ran bin tre of wor , tra an hlb mod bas on it , and use the dis rep it lea to rep wor whe bui the wor tre .
sin eac wor is rep by a dis ove con it app in , we nee a way of com suc a col of con dow to a low - dim vec .
aft tra the hlb mod , we sum eac con w12 : n12 wit the pre fea vec pro fro it usi eq .
the , we con the dis of con tha pre a giv wor int a fea vec by com the exp of the pre rep w . r . t .
tha dis .
thu , for the pur of clu eac wor is rep by its ave pre fea vec .
aft com the low - dim rea - val fea vec for wor , we rec app a ver sim clu alg to the .
at eac ste , we t a mix of two gau to the fea vec and the par the int two sub bas on the res of the two mix com for the .
we the par eac of the sub usi the sam pro , and so on .
the rec sto whe the cur set con onl two wor .
we t the mix by run the em alg for 123 ste
the alg upd bot the mea and the sph cov of the com .
sin the mea of the com are ini bas on a ran par of the fea vec , the alg is not det and wil pro som dif clu on dif run .
one app pro of thi alg is tha the run tim of eac ite is lin in the voc siz , whi is a con of rep wor usi fea vec of xed dim .
in our exp , the alg too onl a few min to bui a hie for a voc of nea 123 wor bas on 123 - dim
the goa of an alg for gen tre for hie lan mod is to pro tre tha are wel - sup by the dat and are rea wel - bal so tha the res mod gen wel and are fas to tra and tes .
to exp the tra - off bet the two req - men , we tri sev spl rul in our tre - bui alg .
the rul are bas on the obs tha the res of a com for a dat can be use as a mea of con - den abo the ass of the dat to the com .
thu , whe the res of bot com for a dat are clo to 123 , we can be sur tha the dat sho be in one com but not the oth .
our sim rul aim to pro a bal tre at any cos .
it sor the res and spl the wor int two dis sub of equ siz bas on the sor ord .
the sec rul mak spl wel - sup by the dat eve if tha res in an unb tre .
it ach tha by ass the wor to the com wit the hig res for the wor .
the thi and the mos sop rul is an ext of the sec rul , mod to ass a poi to bot com whe bot res are wit of 123 , for som pre - spe .
thi rul is des to pro mul cod for wor tha are dif to clu .
we wil ref to the alg tha use the rul as bal , ada , and ada ( ) res .
fin , as a bas for com wit the abo alg , we wil use an alg tha gen ran bal tre .
it sta wit a ran per of the wor and rec bui the lef sub bas one the rst hal of the wor and the rig sub bas on the sec hal of the wor .
we wil cal thi alg ran .
123 em for mor tha 123 ste did not mak a sig dif in the qua of the res
tab 123 : tre of wor gen by the fea - bas alg .
the mea cod len is the sum of len of cod ass wit a wor , ave ove the dis of the wor in the tra dat .
the run - tim com of the hie mod is lin in the mea cod len of the tre use .
the mea num of cod per wor ref to the num of cod per wor ave ove the tra dat dis .
sin eac non - lea nod in a tre has its own fea vec , the num of fre par ass wit the tre is lin in thi qua .
mea cod mea num of cod per wor
tab 123 : the eff of the fea dim and the wor tre use on the tes set per of
a ran tre
a non - ran tre
123 exp res
we com the per of our mod on the apn dat con the ass pre new sto fro 123 and 123
the dat con of a 123 mil wor tra set , a 123 mil wor val set , and 123 mil wor tes set .
the voc siz for thi dat is 123
we cho thi dat bec it had alr bee use to com the per of neu mod to tha of n - gra mod in ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , whi all us to com our res to the res in tho pap .
exc for whe sta oth , the mod use for the exp use 123 dim fea vec and a con siz of 123
the det of the tra pro we use are giv in the app .
all mod wer com bas on the per sco on the tes set .
we sta by tra a mod tha use a tre gen by the ran alg ( tre t12 in tab 123 ) .
the fea vec lea by thi mod wer use to bui a tre usi the bal alg ( tre t12 ) .
we the tra mod of var fea vec dim on eac of the tre to see whe a hig exp mod can com for usi a poo con tre .
the tes sco for the res mod are giv in tab 123
as can be see fro the sco , usi a non - ran tre res in muc bet mod per .
tho the gap in per can be red by inc the dim of fea vec , usi a non - ran tre dra - cal imp per eve for the mod wit 123 - dim fea vec .
it sho be not how , tha mod tha use the ran tre are not ent hop .
for exa , the out the uni mod whi ach the per of 123 by a ver lar mar .
thi sug tha the hlb arc is suf exi to mak eff use of a ran tre
sin inc the fea dim bey 123 did not res in a sub red in per , we use 123 - dim fea vec for all of our mod in the fol exp - men .
nex we exp the eff of the tre bui alg on the per of the res hlb mod .
to do tha , we use the ran , bal , and ada alg to gen one tre eac .
the ada ( ) alg was use to gen two tre : one wit set
tab 123 : tes set per res for the hie lbl mod .
all the dis mod in the com use 123 - dim fea vec and a con siz of 123
lbl is the non - hie log - bil mod .
knn is a kne - ney n - gra mod .
the sco for lbl , kn1 , and kn1 are fro ( 123 ) .
the tim for lbl is bas on our imp of the mod .
to 123 and the oth wit set to 123 .
we the gen a 123 ove tre by run the ada ( = 123 ) alg twi and cre a tre wit a roo nod tha had the two gen tre as its sub .
sin the ada ( ) alg inv som ran we tri to imp the mod per by all the mod to cho dyn bet two pos clu .
fin , we gen a 123 ove usi the sam app .
tab 123 lis the gen tre as wel as som sta for the .
not tha tre gen usi ada ( ) usi > 123 res in mod wit mor par due to the gre num of tre - nod and thu tre - nod fea vec , as com to tre gen usi met pro one cod / lea
tab 123 sho the tes set per and tim per epo for the res mod alo wit the per for mod fro ( 123 ) .
the res sho tha the per of the hlb mod bas on non - ran tre is com to tha of the n - gra mod .
as exp , bui wor tre ada imp mod per .
the gen tre tha eme is tha big tre ten to lea to bet per mod .
for exa , a mod bas on a sin tre pro usi the ada ( 123 ) alg , per as wel as the 123 - gra but not as wel as the non - hie lbl mod .
how , usi a 123 ove tre gen usi the sam alg res in a mod tha out bot the n - gra mod and the lbl mod , and usi a 123 ove tre lea to a fur red in per .
the tim - per - epo sta rep for the neu mod in tab 123 sho the gre spe adv of the hlb mod ove the lbl mod .
ind , the slo of our hlb mod is ove 123 tim fas tha the lbl mod .
123 dis and fut wor
we hav dem tha a hie neu lan mod can act out its non - hie cou and ach sta - of - the - art per .
the key to mak a hie mod per wel is usi a car con hie ove wor .
we hav pre a sim and fas fea - bas alg for aut con of suc hie .
cre hie in whi eve wor occ mor tha onc was ess to get the mod to
an ins of tre gen by our ada alg sho tha the wor wit the lar num of cod ( i . e .
the wor tha wer rep the mos ) wer not the wor wit mul dis sen .
ins , the alg app to rep the wor tha occ rel in - fre in the dat and wer the dif to clu .
the fai to use mul cod for wor wit sev ver dif sen is pro a con of sum the dis ove con wit a sin mea fea vec whe clu wor .
the sen mul of con dis wou be bet cap by usi a sma set of fea vec fou by clu the con .
fin , sin our tre bui alg is bas on the fea vec lea by the mod , it is pos to per int tra of suc a mod to reb the wor tre bas on the fea vec pro by the mod bei tra .
thi mod tra pro mig pro bet mod by all the wor hie to ada to the pro com of the mod and vic ver .
app : det of the tra pro
the mod hav bee tra by max the log - lik usi sto gra asc .
all mod par oth tha the bia wer ini by sam fro a gau of sma var .
the bia for the tre nod wer ini so tha the dis pro by the mod wit all the non - bia par set to zer mat the bas rat of the wor in the tra set .
mod wer tra usi the lea rat of 123 unt the per on the val set sta to inc .
the the lea rat was red to 123 123 and tra was res unt the val per sta inc aga .
all mod par wer reg usi a sma
we tha mar szu for his com on a dra of thi pap .
thi res was sup by nse and cfi .
geh is a fel of the can ins for adv res .
