in thi pap we pro a nov met for lea a mah dis mea to be use in the knn cla alg .
the alg dir max a sto var of the lea - one - out knn sco on the tra set .
it can als lea a low - dim lin - ear emb of lab dat tha can be use for dat vis and fas cla .
unl oth met , our cla mod is non - par , mak no ass abo the sha of the cla dis or the bou bet the .
the per of the met is dem on sev dat set , bot for met lea and lin dim red .
nea nei ( knn ) is an ext sim yet sur eff met for cla - its app ste fro the fac tha its dec sur are non , the is onl a sin int par ( whi is eas tun wit cro - val ) , and the exp qua of pre imp aut as the amo of tra dat in - cre .
the adv , sha by man non - par met , ree the fac tha alt the nal cla mac has qui hig cap ( sin it acc the ent res of tra dat at tes tim ) , the tri lea pro rar cau ove
how , knn suf fro two ver ser dra .
the rst is com , sin it mus sto and sea thr the ent tra set in ord to cla a sin tes poi .
( sto can pot be red by edi or thi the tra dat and in low dim inp spa , the sea pro can be mit by emp dat str suc as kd - tre or bal - tre ( 123 ) . ) the sec is a mod iss : how sho the dis met use to den the nea nei of a tes poi be den ? in thi pap , we att bot of the dif by lea a qua dis met whi opt the exp lea - one - out cla err on the tra dat whe use wit a sto nei sel rul .
fur , we can for the lea dis met to be low ran , thu sub red sto and sea cos at tes tim .
123 sto nea nei for dis met lea
we beg wit a lab dat set con of n rea - val inp vec x12 , .
, xn in rd and cor cla lab c12 , . . . , cn .
we wan to nd a dis met tha max
the per of nea nei cla .
ide , we wou lik to opt per on fut tes dat , but sin we do not kno the tru dat dis we ins att to opt lea - one - out ( loo ) per on the tra dat .
in wha fol , we res our to lea mah ( qua ) dis met , whi can alw be rep by sym pos sem - den mat .
we est - mat suc met thr the inv squ roo , by lea a lin tra of the inp spa suc tha in the tra spa , knn per wel .
if we den the tra by a mat a we are eff lea a met q = a>a suc tha d ( x , y ) = ( x y ) >q ( x y ) = ( ax ay ) > ( ax ay ) .
the act lea - one - out cla err of knn is qui a dis fun of the tra a , sin an inn cha in a may cha the nei gra and thu aff loo cla per by a nit amo .
ins , we ado a mor wel beh mea of nea nei per , by int a dif cos fun bas on sto ( sof ) nei ass in the tra spa .
in par , eac poi i sel ano poi j as its nei wit som pro pij , and inh its cla lab fro the poi it sel .
we den the pij usi a sof ove euc dis in the tra spa :
pk1 exp ( kax axk )
pii = 123
und thi sto sel rul , we can com the pro pi tha poi i wil be cor cla ( den the set of poi in the sam cla as i by ci = ( j|c = cj ) ) :
pi = xjc
the obj we max is the exp num of poi cor cla und thi
f ( a ) =xi xjc
dif f wit res to the tra mat a yie a gra rul whi we can use for lea ( den xij = xi xj ) :
= 123 xjc
reo the ter we obt a mor efc com exp :
our alg whi we dub nei com ana ( nca ) is ext sim : max the abo obj ( 123 ) usi a gra bas opt suc as del - bar - del or con gra .
of cou , sin the cos fun abo is not con , som car mus be tak to avo loc max dur tra .
how , unl man oth obj fun ( whe goo opt are not nec dee but rat bro ) it has bee our exp tha the lar we can dri f dur tra the bet our tes per wil be .
in oth wor , we hav nev obs an ove eff .
not tha by lea the ove sca of a as wel as the rel dir of its row we are als eff lea a rea - val est of the opt num of nei ( k ) .
thi est app as the eff per of the dis pij .
if the lea
pro wan to red the eff per ( con few nei ) it can sca up a uni sim by sca dow all the ent in a it can inc the per of and eff ave ove mor nei dur the sto sel .
max the obj fun f ( a ) is equ to min the l12 nor bet the tru cla dis ( hav pro one on the tru cla ) and the sto cla dis ind by pij via a .
a nat alt dis is the kl - div whi ind the fol obj fun :
max thi obj wou cor to max the pro of obt a per ( err fre ) cla of the ent tra set .
the gra of g ( a ) is eve sim tha tha of f ( a ) :
= 123 xk
we hav exp wit opt thi cos fun as wel , and fou bot the tra - for lea and the per res on tra and tes dat to be ver sim to tho obt wit the ori cos fun .
to spe up the gra com , the sum tha app in equ ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) ove the dat poi and ove the nei of eac poi , can be tru ( one bec we can do sto gra rat tha exa gra and the oth bec pij dro off
123 low ran dis met and non pro
oft it is use to red the dim of inp dat , eit for com sav - ing or for reg of a sub lea alg .
lin dim re - duc tec ( whi app a lin ope to the ori dat in ord to arr at the red rep ) are pop bec the are bot fas and the rel - tiv imm to ove .
bec the imp onl afn map , lin pro als pre som ess top of the ori dat .
man app exi for lin - ear dim red , ran fro pur uns app ( suc as fac ana , pri com ana and ind com ana ) to met whi mak use of cla lab in add to inp fea suc as lin dis ana ( lda ) ( 123 ) pos com wit rel com ana ( rca ) ( 123 ) .
by res a to be a non mat of siz dd , nca can als do lin dim - ali red .
in thi cas , the lea met wil be low ran , and the tra inp wil lie in rd .
( sin the tra is lin , wit los of gen we onl con - sid the cas d d .
) by mak suc a res , we can pot rea man fur ben bey the alr con met for lea a knn dis met .
in par - tic , by cho d ( cid : 123 ) d we can vas red the sto and sea - tim req of knn .
sel d = 123 or d = 123 we can als com use low dim vis - iza on lab dat , usi onl a lin pro .
the alg is exa the sam : opt the cos fun ( 123 ) usi gra des on a non a .
our met req no mat inv and ass no par mod ( gau or oth ) for the cla dis or the bou bet the .
for now , the dim of the red rep ( the num of row in a ) mus be set by the use .
by usi an hig rec a so tha d ( cid : 123 ) d , we can sig red the com - put loa of knn at the exp of res the all met to be tho of
ran at mos d .
to ach thi , we app the nca lea alg to nd the opt tra a , and the we sto onl the pro of the tra poi yn = axn ( as wel as the lab ) .
at tes tim , we cla a new poi xte by rst com its pro yte = axt and the doi knn cla on yte usi the yn and a sim euc met .
if d is rel sma ( say les tha 123 ) , we can pre the yn by bui a kd - tre or a bal - tre to fur inc the spe of sea at tes tim .
the sto req of thi met are o ( dn ) + dd com wit o ( dn ) for knn in the ori inp spa .
123 exp in met lea and dim red
we hav eva the nca alg aga sta dis met for knn and oth met for lin dim red .
in our exp , we hav use 123 dat set ( 123 fro the uc irv rep ) .
we com the nca tra obt fro opt f ( for squ a ) on the tra set wit the def euc dis a = i , the whi tra , a = 123 123 ( whe is the sam dat cov mat ) , and the rca ( 123 ) tra a = w ( whe w is the ave of the wit - cla cov mat ) .
we als inv the beh of nca whe a is res to be dia , all onl axi ali mah mea .
fig 123 sho tha the tra and ( mor imp ) tes per of nca is con the sam as or bet tha tha of oth mah dis mea for knn , des the rel sim of the nca obj fun and the fac tha the dis met bei lea is not mor tha a pos den mat a>a .
we hav als inv the use of lin dim red usi nca ( wit non - squ a ) for vis as wel as red - com cla on sev dat .
in gur 123 we sho 123 exa of 123 - d vis .
fir , we gen a syn thr - dim dat ( sho in top row of gur 123 ) whi con of 123 cla ( sho by dif col ) .
in two dim , the cla are dis in con cir , whi the thi dim is jus gau noi , unc wit the oth dim or the cla lab .
if the noi var is lar eno , the pro fou by pca is for to inc the noi ( as sho on the top lef of gur 123 ) .
( a ful ran euc met wou als be mis by thi dim . ) the cla are not con and can be lin - ear sep , hen the res obt fro lda wil be ina ( as sho in gur 123 ) .
in con , nca ada nds the bes pro wit ass any par - met str in the low dim rep .
we hav als app nca to the uci win dat , whi con of 123 poi lab int 123 cla and to a dat of gra - sca ima of fac con of 123 cla ( eac a sep ind ) and 123 dim ( ima siz is 123 123 ) .
the fac dat con of 123 ima ( 123 for eac per ) .
fin , we app our alg to a sub of the usp dat of han dig ima , con of the rst ve dig cla ( one thr ve ) .
the gra ima wer dow to 123 123 pix res res in 123 dim .
as can be see in gur 123 whe a two - dim pro is use , the cla are con - sis muc bet sep by the nca tra tha by eit pca ( whi is uns ) or lda ( whi has acc to the cla lab ) .
of cou , the nca tra - mat is sti onl a lin pro , jus opt wit a cos fun whi exp enc loc sep .
to fur qua the pro res we can app a nea - nei cla in the pro spa .
usi the sam pro lea at tra tim , we pro the tra set and all fut tes poi and per knn in the low - dim spa usi the euc mea .
the res und the pca , lda , lda fol by rca and nca tra ( usi k=1 ) app in gur 123
the nca pro con giv sup per in thi hig con low -
dis met lea tra
dis met lea tes
ran 123 tra tra
ran 123 tra tes
fig 123 : knn cla acc ( lef tra , rig tes ) on uci dat bal , ion - sph , iri , win and hou and on the usp han dig .
res are ave ove 123 rea of spl eac dat int tra ( 123 ) and tes ( 123 ) sub ( for usp 123 ima for eac of the 123 dig cla wer use for tra and 123 for tes ) .
top pan sho dis met lea ( squ a ) and bot pan sho lin dim red dow to d = 123
ran knn set .
in sum , we hav fou tha whe lab dat is ava , nca per bet bot in ter of cla per in the pro rep and in ter of vis of cla sep as com to the sta met of pca and lda .
123 ext to con lab and sem - sup lea
alt we hav foc her on dis cla , lin tra and ful su - per lea , man ext of thi bas ide are pos .
cle , a non tra fun a ( ) cou be lea usi any arc ( suc as a mul per ) tra by gra met .
fur , it is pos to ext the cla - sic fra pre abo to the cas of a rea val ( con ) sup sig by den the set of cor mat ci for poi i to be tho poi j hav sim ( con ) tar .
thi nat lea to the ide of sof mat , in whi the obj fun bec a sum ove all pai , eac wei by the agr ac - cor to the tar .
lea und suc an obj can sti pro eve in set whe the tar are not exp pro as lon as inf ide clo pai
fig 123 : dat vis res of pca , lda and nca app to ( fro top ) the con rin , win , fac and dig dat .
the dat are red fro the ori dim ( d=1 , d=1 , d=1 , d=1 res ) to the d=1 dim
fig 123 : the two dim out of the neu net on a set of tes cas .
on the lef , eac poi is sho usi a lin seg tha has the sam ori as the inp fac .
on the rig , the sam poi are sho aga wit the siz of the cir rep the siz of the fac .
is ava .
suc sem - sup tas oft ari in dom wit str spa or tem - por con con on the sup , e . g .
in a vid of a per fac we may ass tha pos , and exp var slo in tim eve if no ind fra are eve lab exp wit num pos or exp val .
to ill thi , we gen pai of fac in the fol way : fir we cho two fac at ran fro the fer - b dat ( 123 iso fac tha hav a sta ori and sca ) .
the rst fac is rot by an ang uni dis bet 123 and sca to hav a hei uni dis bet 123 and 123 pix .
the sec fac ( whi is of a dif per ) is giv the sam rot and sca but wit gau noi of 123 and 123 pix .
the pai is giv a wei , wab , whi is the pro den of the add noi div by its max pos val .
we the tra a neu net wit one hid lay of 123 log uni to map fro the 123 pix int of a fac to a poi , y , in a 123 - d out spa .
bac was use to min the cos fun in eq .
123 whi enc the fac in a pai to be pla clo tog :
wab log exp ( ||y yb| )
pc , d exp ( ||y yd| ) ! ( 123 )
cos = xpa ( a , b )
whe c and d are ind ove all of the fac , not jus the one tha for a pai .
fou exa fac are sho to the rig hor - zon the pai agr and ver the do not .
fig 123 abo sho tha the fee neu net dis pol coo - din wit the use hav to dec how to rep sca and ori in the out spa .
123 rel to oth met and con
sev pap rec add the pro of lea mah dis fun giv lab dat or at lea sid - inf of the for of equ con .
two rel met are rca ( 123 ) and a con opt bas alg ( 123 ) .
rca is imp ass a gau dis for eac cla ( so it can be des usi onl the rst two mom of the cla - con dis ) .
xin et .
al att to nd a tra whi min all pai squ dis bet poi in the
sam cla thi imp ass tha cla for a sin com con set .
for hig mul cla dis thi cos fun wil be sev pen .
low ( 123 ) pro a met sim to our but use a mor lim ide for lea a nea nei dis met .
in his app , the met is con to be dia ( as wel , it is som red par ) , and the obj fun cor to the ave squ err bet the tru cla dis and the pre dis , whi is not ent app in a mor pro set .
in par the has bee wor on lea low ran tra for fas cla and vis .
the cla lda alg ( 123 ) is opt if all cla dis are gau wit a sin sha cov thi ass , how is rar tru .
lda als suf fro a sma sam siz pro whe dea wit hig - dim dat whe the wit - cla sca mat is nea sin ( 123 ) .
rec var of lda ( e . g .
( 123 ) , ( 123 ) ) mak the tra mor rob to out and to num ins whe not eno dat are ava .
( thi pro doe not exi in our met sin the is no nee for a mat inv . )
in gen , the are two cla of reg ass tha are com in lin met for cla .
the rst is a str par ass abo the str of the cla dis ( typ enf con or eve con str ) ; the sec is an ass abo the dec bou ( typ enf a hyp ) .
our met mak nei of the ass , rel ins on the str reg imp by res our to a lin tra of the ori inp .
fut res on the nca mod wil inv usi loc est of k as der fro the ent of the dis pij the pos use of a sto cla rul at tes tim and mor sys com bet the obj fun f and g .
to con , we hav int a nov non - par lea met nca tha han the tas of dis lea and dim red in a uni man .
alt muc rec eff has foc on non - lin met , we fee tha lin em - bed has sti not ful ful its pot for eit vis or lea .
tha to dav hec and pau vio for sug tha we inv the alt - tiv cos g ( a ) and the cas of dia a .
