we pro a non - lin gen mod for hum mot dat tha use an und mod wit bin lat var and rea - val vis var tha rep joi ang .
the lat and vis var at eac tim ste re - cei dir con fro the vis var at the las few tim - ste .
suc an arc mak on - lin inf efc and all us to use a sim - ple app lea pro .
aft tra , the mod nds a sin set of par tha sim cap sev dif kin of mot .
we dem the pow of our app by syn var mot seq and by per on - lin lli in of dat los dur mot cap .
rec adv in mot cap tec hav fue int in the ana and syn of com hum mot for ani and tra .
mod bas on the phy of mas and spr hav pro som imp res by usi sop ene - bas lea met ( 123 ) to est phy par fro mot cap dat ( 123 ) .
but if we wan to gen rea hum mot , we nee to mod all the com of the rea dyn and thi is so dif to do ana tha lea is lik to be ess .
the sim way to gen new mot seq bas on dat is to con par of tra seq ( 123 ) .
ano met is to tra mot in the tra dat to new seq by lea to adj its sty or oth cha ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in thi pap we foc on mod dri ana and syn but avo the com inv in imp phy - bas con , rel ins on a pur lea app in whi all the kno in the mod com fro the dat .
dat fro mod mot cap sys is hig - dim and con com non - lin rel bet the com of the obs vec , whi usu rep joi ang wit res to som ske str .
hid mar mod can mod suc dat efc bec the rel on a sin , dis k - sta mul to rep the his of the tim ser .
to mod n bit of inf abo the pas his the req 123 hid sta .
to avo thi exp exp , we nee a mod wit dis ( i . e .
com ) hid sta tha has a rep cap whi is lin in the num of com .
lin dyn sys sat thi req , but the can mod the com non - lin dyn cre by the non - lin pro of mus , con for of the foo on the gro and myr oth fac .
123 an ene - bas mod for vec of rea - val
in gen , usi dis bin rep for hid sta in dir mod of tim ser mak inf dif .
if , how , we use a res bol mac ( rbm ) to mod the pro dis of the obs vec at eac tim fra , the pos ove lat var fac com , mak inf eas .
typ , rbm use bin log uni for bot the vis dat and hid var , but in our app the dat ( com of joi ang ) is con .
we thu use a mod rbm in whi the vis uni are lin , rea - val var tha hav gau noi ( 123 , 123 ) .
the gra mod has a lay of vis uni v and a lay of hid uni h; the are und con bet lay but no con wit a lay .
for any set of the hid uni , the dis of eac vis uni is den by a par log lik fun tha mak ext val ver imp : 123
log p ( v , h ) = x
hjw + con ,
whe i is the sta dev of the gau noi for vis uni i .
( in pra , we res our dat to hav zer mea and uni var .
we hav fou tha xin i at 123 mak the lea wor wel eve tho we wou exp a goo mod to pre the dat wit muc hig pre ) .
the mai adv of usi thi und , ene - bas mod rat tha a dir bel net is tha inf is ver eas bec the hid uni bec con ind whe the sta of the vis uni are obs .
the con dis ( ass i = 123 ) are :
p ( hj = 123 ) = f ( bj + x
p ( vi| ) = n ( ci + x
hjw , 123 ) ,
whe f ( ) is the log fun , n ( , v ) is a gau , bj and ci are the bia of hid uni j and vis uni i res , and wij is the sym wei bet the .
max lik lea is slo in an rbm but lea sti wor wel if we app fol the gra of ano fun cal the con div ( 123 ) .
the lea rul is :
wij hvi hvi ,
whe the rst exp ( ove hid uni act ) is wit res to the dat dis and the sec exp is wit res to the dis of rec dat .
the rec are gen by sta a mar cha at the dat dis , upd all the hid uni in par by sam ( eq .
123 ) and the upd all the vis uni in par by sam ( eq .
for bot exp , the sta of the hid uni are con on the sta of the vis uni , not vic ver .
the lea rul for the hid bia is jus a sim ver of eq
bj hhj ida hhj .
123 the con rbm mod
the rbm we hav des abo mod sta fra of dat , but doe not inc any tem - por inf .
we can mod tem dep by tre the vis var in the pre tim sli as add xed inp ( 123 ) .
for , thi doe not com inf .
we add two typ of dir con ( fig 123 ) : aut con fro the pas n con ( tim ste ) of the vis uni to the cur vis con , and con fro the pas m vis to the cur hid con .
the add of the dir con - nec tur the rbm int a con rbm ( crb ) .
in our exp , we hav cho n = m = 123
the are , how , tun par and nee not be the sam for bot typ of dir con .
to sim dis , we wil ass n = m and ref to n as the ord of
123 any set of the par , the gra of the qua log lik wil alw ove the gra due to the wei inp fro the bin hid uni pro the val vi of a vis uni is far eno fro its bia , ci .
fig 123 : in a tra mod , pro of eac fea bei on con on the dat at the vis uni .
sho is a 123 - hid uni mod , and a seq whi con ( in ord ) wal , sit / sta ( thr tim ) , wal , cro , and run .
row rep fea , col rep seq fra .
inf in the crb is no mor dif tha in the sta rbm .
giv the dat at tim t , t 123 , .
, t n , the hid uni at tim t are con ind .
we can sti use con div for tra the crb .
the onl cha is tha whe we upd the vis and hid uni , we imp the dir con - nec by tre dat fro pre tim ste as a dyn cha bia .
the con div lea rul for hid bia is giv in eq .
123 and the equ lea rul for the tem - por con tha det the dyn cha hid uni bia is :
is the log - lin par ( wei ) con vis uni i at tim t q to hid uni j for q = 123 . n .
sim , the lea rul for the aut con tha det the dyn cha vis uni bia is :
i ire ( cid : 123 ) .
is the wei fro vis uni k at tim t q to vis
the aut wei can mod sho - ter tem str ver wel , lea the hid uni to mod lon - ter , hig lev str .
dur tra , the sta of the hid uni are det - min by bot the inp the rec fro the obs dat and the inp the rec fro the pre tim sli .
the lea rul for w rem the sam as a sta rbm , but has a dif ef - fec bec the sta of the hid uni are now inu by the pre vis uni .
we do not att to mod the rst n fra of eac seq .
t - 123 t - 123 t
fig 123 : arc of our mod ( in our exp - men , we use thr pre
whi lea a mod of mot , we do not nee to pro seq thr the tra dat seq .
the upd are onl con on the pas n tim ste , not the ent seq .
as lon as we iso chu of fra ( the siz dep on the ord of the dir con ) , the can be mix and for int min - bat .
to spe up the lea , we ass the chu of fra int bal min - bat of siz 123
we ran ass chu to dif min - bat so tha the chu in eac min - bat are as unc as pos .
to sav com mem , tim fra are not act rep in min - bat we sim use ind to sim the chu of fra .
our tra pro rel on sev app , mos of whi are cho bas on ex - per tra sim net .
whi tra the crb , we rep vi in eq .
123 and eq .
123 by its exp val and we als use the exp val of vi whe com the pro of act of the hid uni .
how , to com the one - ste rec of the dat , we use sto cho bin val of the hid uni .
thi pre the hid act fro tra an unb amo of inf fro the dat to the rec ( 123 ) .
whi upd the dir vis - to - hid con ( eq .
123 ) and the sym und con ( eq .
123 ) we use the sto cho bin val of the hid uni in the rst ter ( und the dat ) , but rep hj by its exp val in the sec ter ( und the rec - tio ) .
we too thi app bec the rec of the dat dep on the bin cho mad whe sel hid sta .
thu whe we inf the hid fro the rec dat , the pro are hig cor wit the bin hid sta inf fro the dat .
on the oth han , we sto aft one rec , so the bin cho of hid fro the rec doe cor wit any oth ter , and the is no poi inc thi ext noi .
las , we not tha the ne - tun pro as a who is mak a cru app in add to the one mad by con div .
the inf ste , con on pas vis sta , is app bec it ign the fut ( it doe not do smo ) .
bec of the dir con , exa inf wit the mod sho inc bot a for and bac pas thr eac seq ( we cur per onl a for pas ) .
we hav avo a bac pas bec mis val cre pro in und mod , so it is har to per lea efc usi the ful pos .
com wit an hmm , the lac of smo is a los , but thi is mor tha off by the exp gai in rep pow .
123 dat gat and pre
we use dat fro the cmu gra lab mot cap dat as wel as fro ( 123 ) ( see ack ) .
the pro dat con of 123 joi ang der fro 123 ( cmu ) or 123 ( mit ) mar plu a roo ( coc , nea the bas of the bac ) ori and dis .
for bot dat , the ori dat was cap at 123 we hav dow it to 123 .
six of the joi ang dim in the ori cmu dat had con val , so the wer eli - ina .
eac of the rem joi ang had bet one and thr deg of fre .
all of the joi ang and the roo ori wer con fro eul ang to the exp map par ( 123 ) .
thi was don to avo gim loc and dis .
( the mit dat was alr exp in exp map for and did not nee to be con . )
we tre the roo spe bec it enc a tra wit res to a xed glo coo sys .
in ord to res phy , we wan our nal rep to be inv to gro - pla tra and to rot abo the gra ver .
we rep eac gro - pla tra by an inc for vec and an inc sid vec rel to the dir the per was cur fac , but we rep hei non - inc by the dis abo the gro pla .
we rep ori aro the gra ver by the inc cha , but we rep the oth two rot deg of fre by the abs pit and rol rel to the dir the per was cur fac .
the nal dim of our dat vec was 123 ( for the cmu dat ) and 123 ( for the mit dat ) .
not tha we eli exp map dim tha wer con zer ( cor to joi wit a sin deg of fre ) .
as men in sec .
123 , eac com of the dat was nor to hav zer mea and uni var .
one adv of our mod is the fac tha the dat doe not nee to be hea pre or dim red .
bra and her ( 123 ) app pca to red noi and dim .
the aut con in our mod can be tho of as doi a kin of whi of the dat .
urt et al .
( 123 ) man seg dat int cyc and sam at reg tim int usi qua sph int .
dim red bec pro whe a wid ran of mot is to be mod .
aft tra our mod usi the upd des abo , we can dem in sev way wha it has lea abo the str of hum mot .
per the mos dir dem , whi exp the fac tha it is a pro den mod of seq , is to use the mod to gen de - nov a num of syn mot seq .
vid les of the seq are ava - abl on the web men in the abs the mot hav not bee ret by han in any mot edi sof .
not tha we als do not hav to kee a res of tra dat seq aro for gen - we onl nee the wei of the mod and a few val fra for
cau gen fro a lea mod can be don on - lin wit no smo , jus lik the lea pro .
the vis uni at the las few tim ste det the eff bia of the vis and hid uni at the cur tim ste .
we alw kee the pre vis sta xed and per alt gib sam to obt a joi sam fro the con rbm .
thi pic new hid and vis sta tha are com wit eac oth and wit the rec ( vis ) his .
gen req ini wit n tim ste of the vis uni , whi imp det the mod of mot in whi the syn seq wil sta .
we use ran dra con fra fro the tra dat as an ini con .
123 gen of wal and run seq fro a sin mod
in our rst dem , we tra a sin mod on dat con bot wal and run mot we the use the lea mod to gen bot typ of mot , dep on how it is ini .
we tra on 123 seq of wal and 123 seq of jog ( fro sub 123 in the cmu dat ) .
aft dow to 123 , the tra dat con of 123 fra .
fig 123 : aft tra , the sam mod can gen wal ( top ) and run ( bot ) mot ( see vid on the web ) .
eac ske - ton is 123 fra apa .
fig 123 sho a wal seq and a run seq gen by the sam mod , usi al - ter gib sam ( wit the pro of hid uni bei on con on the cur and pre thr vis vec ) .
sin the tra dat doe not con any tra bet wal and run ( and vic - ver ) , the mod wil con to gen wal or run mo - tio dep on whe it is ini .
123 lea tra bet var sty
in our sec dem , we sho tha our mod is cap of lea not onl sev hom - gen mot sty but als the tra bet the , whe the tra dat its con
123 123 hid - uni crb was tra for 123 pas thr the tra dat , usi a thi - ord mod ( for dir con ) .
wei upd wer mad aft eac min - bat of siz 123
the ord of the seq was ran per suc tha wal and run seq wer dis thr the
exa of suc tra .
we tra on 123 seq ( fro the mit dat , le jog m ) con - tai lon exa of run and jog , as wel as a few tra bet the two sty .
aft dow to 123 , thi pro us wit 123 fra .
tra was don as bef , ex - cep tha aft the mod was tra , an ide 123 hid - uni mod was tra on top of the rst mod ( see sec .
the res two - lev mod was use to gen dat .
a vid ava on the web dem our mod abi to sto tra bet var mot sty dur a sin gen seq .
123 int tra usi noi
in our thi dem , we sho how tra bet mot sty can be gen eve whe suc tra are abs in the dat .
we use the sam mod and dat as des in sec .
123 , whe we hav lea on sep seq of wal and run .
to gen , we use the sam sam pro as bef , exc tha at eac tim we sto cho the hid sta ( giv the cur and pre thr vis vec ) we add a sma amo of gau noi to the hid sta bia .
thi enc the mod to exp mor of the hid sta spa wit dev too far the cur mot .
app thi noi sam app , we see tha the gen mot occ tra bet lea sty .
the tra app nat ( see the vid on the web ) .
123 fil in mis dat
due to the nat of the mot cap pro , whi can be adv aff by lig and env eff , as wel as noi dur rec , mot cap dat oft con mis or unu dat .
som mar may dis ( dro ) for lon per of tim due to sen - sor fai or occ .
the maj of mot edi sof pac con int met to ll in mis dat , but thi lea the dat unn smo .
the met als rel on the sta and end poi of the mis dat , so if a mar goe mis unt the end of a seq , nav int wil not wor .
suc met oft onl use the pas and fut dat fro the sin mis mar to ll in tha mar mis val , but sin joi ang are hig cor , sub inf abo the pla of one mar cou be gai fro the oth .
our tra mod has the abi to eas ll in suc mis dat , reg of whe the dro occ in a seq .
due to its app inf met whi doe not rel on a bac pas thr the seq , it als has the abi to ll in suc mis dat on - lin .
fil in mis dat wit our mod is ver sim to gen .
we sim cla the kno dat to the vis uni , ini the mis dat to som rea ( for exa , the val at the pre fra ) , and alt bet sto upd the hid and vis uni , wit the kno vis sta hel xed .
to dem lli in , we tra a mod exa as des in sec .
123 exc tha one wal and one run seq wer lef out of the tra dat to be use as tes dat .
for eac of the wal and run tes seq , we era two dif set of joi ang , sta hal thr the tes seq .
the set wer the joi in ( 123 ) the lef leg , and ( 123 ) the ent upp bod .
as see in the vid les on the web , the qua of the lle - in dat is exc and is har dis fro the ori gro tru of the tes seq .
fig 123 dem the mod abi to pre the thr ang of rot of the lef hip .
for the wal seq ( of len 123 fra ) , we com our mod per to nea nei int , a sim met whe for eac fra , the val on kno dim are com to eac exa in the tra set to nd the clo mat ( mea by euc dis - tan in the nor ang spa ) .
the unk dim are the lle in usi the mat exa .
as rec fro our mod is sto , we rep the exp 123 tim and rep the mea .
for the mis leg , mea squ rec err per joi usi our mod was 123 , mea in nor joi ang spa , and sum ove the 123 fra of int .
usi nea nei int , the err was gre : 123 .
for the mis upp bod , mea squ rec err per joi usi our mod was 123 .
usi nea nei int , aga the err was gre : 123 .
fig 123 : the mod suc lls in mis dat usi onl the pre val of the joi ang ( thr the tem con ) and the cur ang of oth joi ( thr the rbm con ) .
sho are two of the thr ang of rot for the lef hip joi ( the plo of the thi is sim to the rst ) .
the ori dat is sho on a sol lin , the mod pre is sho on a das lin , and the res of nea nei int are sho on a dot lin ( see a vid on the web ) .
123 hig lev mod
onc we hav tra the mod , we can add lay lik in a dee bel net ( 123 ) .
the pre lay crb is kep , and the seq of hid sta vec , whi dri by the dat , is tre as a new kin of ful obs dat .
the nex lev crb has the sam arc as the rst ( tho we can alt the num of its uni ) and is tra in the exa sam way .
upp lev of the net can the mod hig - ord str .
thi gre pro is jus usi a var bou ( 123 ) .
a two - lev mod is sho in fig 123
we can als con two spe cas of the hig - lev mod .
if we kee onl the vis lay , and its n - th ord dir con , we hav a sta ar ( n ) mod wit gau noi .
if we tak the two - hid lay mod and del the rst - lev aut con , as wel as bot set of vis - to - hid dir con , we hav a sim mod tha can be tra in 123 sta : rst lea a sta ( iid ) mod of pai or tri of tim fra , the usi the inf hid sta to tra a ful - obs sig bel net tha cap the tem str of the hid sta .
t - 123 t - 123 t
fig 123 : hig -
we hav int a gen mod for hum mot bas on the ide tha loc con and glo dyn can be lea efc by a con res bol mac .
onc tra , our mod are abl to efc cap com non - lin in the dat wit sop pre - pro or dim red .
the mod has bee des wit hum mot in min , but sho len its wel to oth hig - dim tim ser .
in rel low - dim or uns dat ( for exa if we wer to mod a sin iso joi ) a sin - lay mod mig be exp to hav dif sin suc cyc tim ser con sev sub whi are loc ver sim but occ in dif pha of the ove cyc .
it wou be pos to pre the glo pha inf by usi a muc hig ord mod , but for hig dim dat suc as ful bod mot cap thi is unn bec the who con of joi ang and ang vel nev has any pha amb .
so the sin - lay ver of our mod act per muc bet on hig - dim dat .
mod wit mor hid lay are abl to imp mod lon - ter tem inf , and thu wil mit thi eff .
we hav dem tha our mod can eff lea dif sty of mot , as wel as the tra bet the sty .
thi dif our app fro pca - bas app whi onl acc mod cyc mot , and add mus bui sep mod for eac typ of mot .
the abi of the mod to tra smo , how , is dep on hav suf exa of suc tra in the tra dat .
we pla to tra on lar dat en - com suc tra bet var sty of mot .
if we aug the dat wit som sta ske and ide par ( in ess map a per uni ide to a set of fea - tur ) , we sho be abl to use the sam gen mod for man dif peo , and gen ind cha fro one typ of mot to ano .
fin , our mod is not lim to a sin sou of dat .
in the fut , we hop to int low - lev vis dat cap at the sam tim as mot we cou the lea the cor bet the vis str and the joi ang .
the rst dat set use in thi pro was obt fro moc . cs . cmu . edu .
thi dat was cre wit fun fro nsf eia - 123
the sec dat set use in thi pro was obt fro htt : / / peo . csa . mit . edu / ehs / wor / sig / .
for mat pla of mot and gen of vid , we hav use nei law mot cap too
