in is er we se a el od or ng a is ce re to be ed in he nn on hm .
he hm ly es a ic nt of he ve - ne - ut nn re on he ng et .
it an so rn a ow - al in - ar ng of ed ta at an be ed or ta on nd st on .
ke er ds , ur on el is on - ic , ng no ns ut he pe of he ss ns or he es en em .
he ce of he od is ed on al ta ts , th or ic ng nd ar ty on .
st or ( nn ) is an ly le et ly ve od or as - ts al ms om he ct at ts on es re ar , re is ly a le er er ( ch is ly ed th ss - on ) , nd he ed ty of ns es ly as he nt of ng ta in - es .
se es , ed by ny on - ic ds , ct he ct at gh he al on ne as te gh ty ( ce it es he re ir of ng ta at st me ) , he al ng re ly es ng
er , nn rs om wo ry us ks .
he st is al , ce it st re nd ch gh he re ng et in er to fy a le st nt .
( ge an ly be ed by ng or ng he ng a; nd in ow al ut es , he ch em an be ed by ng ta es ch as kd - es or ll - es ( 23 ) . ) he nd is a ng ue : ow ld he ce ic ed to ne he st rs of a st nt be ed ? in is er , we ck th of se es by ng a ic ce ic ch es he ed ve - ne - ut on or on he ng ta en ed th a ic ur on le .
re , we an ce he ed ce ic to be ow nk , us ly ng ge nd ch ts at st me .
23 ic st rs or ce ic ng
we in th a ed ta et ng of n al - ed ut rs 23 , .
, xn in rd nd ng ss ls 23 , . . . , cn .
we nt to nd a ce ic at es
he ce of st ur on .
ly , we ld ke to ze ce on re st ta , ut ce we do ot ow he ue ta on we ad pt to ze ve - ne - ut ( oo ) ce on he ng ta .
in at ws , we ct es to ng is ( ic ) ce cs , ch an ys be ed by ic ve mi - te es .
we ti - te ch cs gh ir se re ts , by ng a ar on of he ut ce ch at in he ed ce , nn ms ll .
if we te he on by a ix a we re ly ng a ic q = >a ch at d ( x , y ) = ( x y ) >q ( x y ) = ( ax ay ) > ( ax ay ) .
he al ve - ne - ut on or of nn is te a us on of he on a , ce an al ge in a ay ge he ur ph nd us ct oo on ce by a te nt .
ad , we pt a re ll ed re of st ur ce , by ng a le st on ed on ic ( ft ) ur ts in he ed ce .
in ar , ch nt i ts er nt j as ts ur th me ty ij , nd ts ts ss el om he nt it ts .
we ne he ij ng a ax er an es in he ed ce :
=i xp ( xi 23 )
ii = 23
er is ic on le , we an te he ty pi at nt i ll be ly ed ( te he et of ts in he me ss as i by ci = ( ci = cj ) ) :
pi = ci
he ve we ze is he ed er of ts ly ed er is
f ( a ) xi ci
ng f th ct to he on ix a ds a nt le ch we an se or ng ( te ij = xi xj ) :
= xi ci
ng he ms we in a re ly ed on :
ur hm ch we ub od ts is ( ca ) is ly le : ze he ve ve ( 23 ) ng a nt ed er ch as ta - ar - ta or te ts .
of se , ce he st on ve is ot ex , me re st be en to id al ma ng ng .
er , ke ny er ve ns ( re od ma re ot ly ep ut er ad ) it as en ur ce at he er we an ve f ng ng he er ur st ce ll be .
in er ds , we ve er ed an ng ct .
ce at by ng he ll le of a as ll as he ve ns of ts ws we re so ly ng a al - ed te of he al er of rs ( k ) .
is te rs as he ve ty of he ns ij .
if he ng
re ts to ce he ve ty ( lt er rs ) it an le up a y; ly by ng wn ll he es in a it an se he ty of nd ly ge er re rs ng he ic on .
ng he ve on f ( a ) is nt to ng he 23 rm en he ue ss on ( ng ty ne on he ue ss ) nd he ic ss on ed by ij ia a .
a al ve ce is he kl - ce ch es he ng ve on :
ng is ve ld nd to ng he ty of ng a ct ( or ee ) on of he re ng et .
he nt of g ( a ) is en er an at of f ( a ) :
= xi xk
we ve ed th ng is st on as ll , nd nd th he ns - ns ed nd he ce ts on ng nd ng ta to be ry ar to se ed th he al st on .
to ed up he nt on , he ms at ar in ns ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) er he ta ts nd er he rs of ch nt , an be ed ( ne se we an do ic nt er an ct nt nd he er se ij ps ff
23 ow nk ce cs nd re on
en it is ul to ce he ty of ut ta , er or al av - gs or or on of a nt ng hm .
ar ty re - on es ( ch ly a ar or to he al ta in er to ve at he ed on ) re ar se ey re th st nd es la - ly ne to ng .
se ey nt ly ne ps , ar ns so ve me al gy of he al ta .
ny es st or in - ar ty on , ng om ly ed es ( ch as or is , al ts is nd nt ts is ) to ds ch ke se of ss ls in on to ut es ch as ar nt is ( da ) ( 23 ) ly ed th nt ts is ( ca ) ( 23 ) .
by ng a to be a re ix of ze dd , ca an so do ar on - ty on .
in is se , he ed ic ll be ow nk , nd he ed ts ll ie in rd .
( ce he on is ar , ut ss of ty we ly on - er he se d d .
) by ng ch a on , we an ly ap ny er ts nd he dy nt od or ng a nn ce ic .
in ar - ar , by ng d ( id : 23 ) d we an ly ce he ge nd ch - me ts of nn .
ng d = 23 or d = 23 we an so te ul ow al al - ns on ed ts , ng ly a ar on .
he hm is ly he me : ze he st on ( 23 ) ng nt nt on a re a .
ur od es no ix ns nd es no ic el ( an or se ) or he ss ns or he es en em .
or ow , he ty of he ed on ( he er of ws in a ) st be et by he er .
by ng an ly ar a so at d ( id : 23 ) d , we an ly ce he om - al ad of nn at he se of ng he le cs to be se of
nk at st d .
to ve is , we ly he ca ng hm to nd he al on a , nd en we re ly he ns of he ng ts yn = xn ( as ll as ir ls ) .
at st me , we fy a ew nt st by st ng ts on st = st nd en ng nn on on st ng he yn nd a le an ic .
if d is ly ll ( ay ss an 23 ) , we an ss he yn by ng a kd - ee or a ll - ee to er se he ed of ch at st me .
he ge ts of is od re o ( dn ) + dd ed th o ( dn ) or nn in he al ut ce .
23 ts in ic ng nd ty on
we ve ed he ca hm st rd ce cs or nn nd er ds or ar ty on .
in ur ts , we ve ed 23 ta ts ( 23 om he uc ne ry ) .
we ed he ca on ed om ng f ( or re a ) on he ng et th he lt an ce a = i , he ng on , a = 23 23 ( re is he le ta ce ix ) , nd he ca ( 23 ) on a = w ( re w is he ge of he in - ss ce es ) .
we so ed he ur of ca en a is ed to be al , ng ly is ed is es .
re 23 ws at he ng nd ( re ly ) ng ce of ca is ly he me as or er an at of er is ce es or nn , te he ve ty of he ca ve on nd he ct at he ce ic ng ed is ng re an a ve te ix >a .
we ve so ed he se of ar ty on ng ca ( th on - re a ) or on as ll as ed - ty on on al ts .
in re 23 we ow 23 es of 23 - d on .
st , we ed a ic ee - al et ( wn in op ow of re 23 ) ch ts of 23 es ( wn by nt rs ) .
in wo ns , he es re ed in ic es , le he rd on is st an se , ed th he er ns or he ss el .
if he se ce is ge gh , he on nd by ca is ed to de he se ( as wn on he op ft of re 23 ) .
( a ll nk an ic ld so be ed by is on . ) he es re ot ex nd ot be in - ly ed , ce he ts ed om da ll be te ( as wn in re 23 ) .
in st , ca ly ds he st on ut ng ny ra - ic re in he ow al on .
we ve so ed ca to he ci ne et , ch ts of 23 ts ed to 23 es nd to a se of ay - le es of es ng of 23 es ( ch a te al ) nd 23 ns ( ge ze is 23 23 ) .
he ce et ts of 23 es ( 23 or ch on ) .
ly , we ed ur hm to a et of he ps et of en it es , ng of he st ve it es ( ne gh ve ) .
he le es re ed to 23 23 el on ng in 23 ns .
as an be en in re 23 en a wo - al on is ed , he es re on - ly ch er ed by he ca on an by er ca ( ch is ed ) or da ( ch as ss to he ss ls ) .
of se , he ca or - on is ll ly a ar on , st ed th a st on ch ly es al on .
to er fy he on ts we an ly a st - or on in he ed ce .
ng he me on ed at ng me , we ct he ng et nd ll re st ts nd rm nn in he ow - al ce ng he an re .
he ts er he ca , da , da ed by ca nd ca ns ( ng 23 ) ar in re 23
he ca on ly es or ce in is ly ed ow -
ce ic ng ng
ce ic ng ng
nk 23 on ng
nk 23 on ng
re 23 : nn on cy ( ft in , ht st ) on ci ts ce , no - re , is , ne nd ng nd on he ps en ts .
ts re es er 23 ns of ng ch et to ng ( 3% ) nd ng ( 3% ) ts ( or ps 23 es or ch of he 23 it es re ed or ng nd 23 or ng ) .
op ls ow ce ic ng ( re a ) nd om ls ow ar ty on wn to d = 23
nk nn ng .
in ry , we ve nd at en ed ta is le , ca ms er th in ms of on ce in he ed on nd in ms of on of ss on as ed to he rd ds of ca nd da .
23 ns to us ls nd mi - ed ng
gh we ve ed re on te es , ar ns nd ly su - ed ng , ny ns of is ic ea re le .
ly , a ar on on a ( ) ld be ed ng ny re ( ch as a er on ) le by nt ds .
re , it is le to nd he as - on rk ed ve to he se of a al ed ( us ) on al by ng he et of ct es ci or nt i to be se ts j ng ar ( us ) ts .
is ly ds to he ea of ft es , in ch he ve on es a um er ll rs , ch ed by ir nt ac - ng to he ts .
ng er ch an ve an ll ed en in gs re he ts re ot ly ed as ng as on ng se rs
re 23 : et on ts of ca , da nd ca ed to ( om op ) he ic gs , ne , es nd ts ts .
he ta re ed om ir al es ( 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 ly ) to he 23 ns
re 23 : he wo al ts of he al rk on a et of st es .
on he ft , ch nt is wn ng a ne nt at as he me on as he ut ce .
on he ht , he me ts re wn in th he ze of he le ng he ze of he ce .
is le .
ch mi - ed ks en se in ns th ng al or em - al ty ts on he on , e . g .
in a eo of a ns ce we ay me at se , nd on ry ly in me en if no al es re er ed ly th al se or on es .
to te is , we te rs of es in he ng ay : st we se wo es at om om he et - b et ( 23 ed es at ve a rd on nd le ) .
he st ce is ed by an le ly ed en 3o nd ed to ve a ht ly ed en 23 nd 23 ls .
he nd ce ( ch is of a nt on ) is en he me on nd ng ut th an se of 3o nd 23 ls .
he ir is en a ht , ab , ch is he ty ty of he ed se ed by ts um le ue .
we en ed a al rk th ne en er of 23 ic ts to ap om he 23 el es of a ce to a nt , y , in a 23 - d ut ce .
on as ed to ze he st on in eq .
23 ch es he es in a ir to be ed se er :
ab og xp ( ya 23 )
pc , d xp ( yc 23 ) ! ( 23 )
st = ir ( a , b )
re c nd d re es er ll of he es , ot st he es at rm a ir .
ur le es re wn to he t; ri - ly he rs ee nd ly ey do ot .
re 23 ve ws at he rd al rk ed ar or - es ut he er ng to de ow to nt le nd on in he ut ce .
23 ps to er ds nd ns
al rs ly ed he em of ng is ce ns en ed ta or at st de - on of he rm of ce ts .
wo ed ds re ca ( 23 ) nd a ex on ed hm ( 23 ) .
ca is ly ng a an on or ch ss ( so it an be ed ng ly he st wo ts of he ss - al on ) .
ng et .
al pt to nd a on ch es ll se ed es en ts in he
me s; is ly es at es rm a le ct ed et .
or ly al ss ns is st on ll be ly ed .
we ( 23 ) ed a od ar to rs ut ed a re ed ea or ng a st ur ce ic .
in is ch , he ic is ed to be al ( as ll , it is at ly ed ) , nd he ve on ds to he ge ed or en he ue ss on nd he ed on , ch is ot ly te in a re ic ng .
in el re as en rk on ng ow nk ns or st on nd on .
he ic da hm ( 23 ) is al if ll ss ns re an th a le ed e; is on , er is ly ue .
da so rs om a ll le ze em en ng th gh - al ta en he in - ss er ix is ly ar ( 23 ) .
nt ts of da ( e . g .
( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) ke he on re st to rs nd to al ty en ot gh ts re le .
( is em es ot st in ur od ce re is no ed or a ix on . )
in al , re re wo es of on on at re on in ar ds or on .
he st is a ng ic on ut he re of he ss ns ( ly ng ed or en ex re ) ; he nd is an on ut he on ry ( ly ng a ne ) .
ur od es er of se ns , ng ad on he ng on ed by ng es to a ar on of he al ts .
re ch on he ca el ll te ng al es of k as ed om he py of he ns j; he le se of a ic on le at st e; nd re ic ns en he ve ns f nd g .
to de , we ve ed a el on - ic ng od ca at es he ks of ce ng nd ty on in a ed er .
gh ch nt rt as ed on on - ar ds , we el at ar em - ng as ll ot ly ed ts al or er on or ng .
ks to id an nd ul la or ng at we te he na - ve st g ( a ) nd he se of al a .
