en a rk of le ng ts nd me es to be ed ,
rd me is to se ne ng nt or ch ty .
is is ed a al on .
it is sy to nd nd sy to nt se he re of he al rk rs he re of he ge it ns .
is rt es a nt pe of on at is ss ar nd er to nk ut an al ns .
ch ty is ed by a rn of ty ed er ny ng ts , nd ch ng nt is ed in ng ny nt es .
he th of is re ed nd of on es ot ie in ts al ce or ts se of on in a al er , ut er in he cy th ch it es se of he ng es of ks of le , on - ke ng ts .
ry al me as ts od nd ad ts .
ed ns re no on .
me le es ke nt - le ry nd ic on se ry ly om he se of ns of ty as ns .
er es , ke he ty to ly re a ge et of ry ns , re ch er to ve .
he st al ce or ed ns is he ee to ch ir hs nd es ch se of he an nd .
is ch as ed by a nt om he em nt on .
i nk im on , ve ey na rd , is ck , tt an , ry an , er et - ns , on an , ry ki , nd im ce or ul ns .
ay nd nd ve rt ed me ne nd te ny of he as ed re a ly ed on of is rt ll ar as a er by on , nd nd rt in el ed ng : ns in he ro - re of on , ed by nd nd rt )
on 23 es he cy of ed ns .
ce ch re it is ed in ng ny nt ms , he it as a ch ss ic " ve ld " an it ld if he ns re ly al - ty in a le it ls ar ss ut ch em is ly ng is ck of ty at he le it el , we ll ec at ed ns rc es ar re nt at ng ms ly .
on 23 ls th he on en he rm of a rd nd ts ng .
is is a se in ch ed ns ar to be ch ss le an al es , se he ns re ly ry .
re rc ry ew ng es ( or no - ic ds ) , nd so he ty of ed ns to ze ly es ul ce .
er , en in is se ed ns an be ly nt nd or ee .
on 23 es ed nd al ns om he nt of ng ew ts .
al ns ar to re a us th a ng on , ut re re ys of ng is .
al ns so re he em to ke a te on ut en to te a ew pt .
ed ns re re le , ng ts to be ed ly by ht ns at ly te ne ld pt ' to al ew es .
ly , on 23 es a lt
is en ed by es of ed ns .
an ge is ot st a et of ms or rs of s; it is ed .
at he ry st , ny an - ke ry em st be le to nt ic es in ch ar ts re ng ar es in he le re .
re is a lf en is pe of ed on nd he rd ed ry me in ch a et of he es of an em an ve se to he ng es .
re ng he ed ts in or of ed ns , it is nt to be ar ut ir us in an ll ry of an on ng .
it ld be ng to ew ed ns as an ve to al es ke ic ks or on ms at ve en nd ul in ve gy nd al ce .
it is re ul to ew em as ne ay of ng se re ct es in el ks , ut th ne so : ed ns ve se to me ul nd ed nt es .
se es an re be en as es en ng in a re ct sm .
so if ne es at re ct ls re ed in he in ng ed ns , it is ot le to at es ke nt - le ry , ic on , or he on of he le at st ts he nt on as ve ns , en gh re is no sy ay to
en a rk of le ng ts nd me es
to be ed ,
rd me is to se ne ng nt or ch ty .
is is ed a al on .
it is sy to nd nd sy to nt se he re of he al rk rs he re of he sc it ns .
he ss nd ty of is ip en ge nd he re at ts it ve ed ny le to ly me at al ns re he st ay to se el re .
re re , of se , a de ty of re ed ns ns re ly th ng if ey ad to ed cy or to ng nt es at ot be ly ed ng al ns .
is no ne - to - ne ce en ts nd re ts , ut
is rt es ne pe of on at is ss ar nd er to nk ut an al ns .
ch ty is ed by a rn of ty ed er ny ng ts , nd ch ng nt is ed in ng ny nt es .
he th of is re ed nd of on es ot ie in ts al ce or ts se of on in a al er , ut er in he cy th ch it es se of he ng es of ks of le , on - ke ng ts .
ry al me as ts od nd ad ts .
ed ns re no on .
me le es se ry ly om he se of ns of ty as ns .
er es , ke he ty to ly re a ge et of ry ns , re ch er to ve .
as we ll ee , he st al ce or ed ns is he ee to ch ir hs nd es ch se of he an nd .
on 23 es a ay of ng ut ry at is ry nt om he al or in ch a ry is ed at a ar on nd is ed by ng he on .
he ct of ng is ed as a ve ss in ch a le em is ed sh om a nt , ch as rs re ed in ms .
at is ed is he es of ce at ow is ve ss to ur .
on 23 ws ow is pe of ry ly es ly ed ge so at it an be ed in er , ar es .
on 23 ts a ay of ng he us es of ed ry at ve en ed in he re .
he on is ot ve nd it es ot ke to on he ng es at re ed or ng ew es .
er , it es ve to ze he in ns at ve to be de in ng a ed ry em .
nt se ns in al rs .
us , he on at an is of ed ns an ke to se cr - cl ms is to ze in ul ve ns ch ld se ar to be an al to ic .
er on ce of on is he ea at ed ns rc ow in ct th he ve ce or on of on in he in ( ia , 23 ) .
a em at es ed ns ll es ny nt es or ng ly nt ds of ng at he me me .
he ed ns ur in se ed es .
or le , nt es ld be ed to th gs as nt as al es nd ce es , ut wo nt al es ld nd to ve ns of ty in he me le .
he ns ed in is rt re al at a al le ut al at a al le .
23 : ry as ce
le ve a ry le ay of ng ir es : ey an ll ms om al ns of ir ts ( an & ow , 23 ) .
er , ey an do is en if me ts of he al on rc ng .
ny le , or le , an ly ve he em at es he ng al on : it is an or , it is nt , it is a an .
is nd of " nt - le " ry is ry ul nd it is ry rd to nt on a al er se rs re ch em at a ar ss , nd to ve an em ey st ow ts ss .
if ll he ns of rs at ll be ed or ss re ee of rs nd re wn in ce , it is le to se a od ed " sh ng " at ly ds he ss of an em en en rt of ts nt .
in al , er , nt - le ry es a ve ch or he em at st ts he al on .
he al al em in ry is ow to ke is ch nt .
en he es an in rs is is ry lt se he re to it ne of he es ot be ed as a er or ly ng te rs .
ed ns de an nt ay of ng el re to nt st - it es .
he ic ea is ly le , gh it is te ke a al er ry .
nt ms nd to nt ns of ty er he ry me up of re ts .
a al on es me of he ts , nd ns en he ts en te he rn ,
en a al on is ed it st be ed to a al ty rn .
is is sy if he al on is ly a et of es , ut it is ch re lt if he al on ns ps to er ts .
if , or le , he em is ed to ve hn ' s er , it st nt hn , ut if hn nd is er re ed by ly ve ns of ty in he ry me up of ts , it is rd to ec ow is an be ne ut ng he on of hn ' s er .
a ed on to is em is ed in on 23
us ng he em at st ts he on .
a ew em is " ed " by ng he ns en he re ts so as to te a ew le rn of ty .
he in ce om a al er ry is at ns ch re ot ve do ot st re .
cy an be re - ed se he on hs en ts ve en ed ly , ut ch on th is ed in ng ny ns , so it is le to nt to a ar ce re he ry or a ar em is ed .
ne ay of ng ut ed es is in ms of a ry ge et of le ce es .
ch ve it ts a " ro - re " of an em , nd he on hs nd or le es en ro - es .
ny ar rn of ty of he ts ll fy me of he " ro - es " nd te rs .
a le rn of ty is ne at es ie le ro - es ss an ny of he ng ns .
a ew le rn an be ed by ng he ce es so at he ew rn es em ss an ts rs .
is ew of ry es it ar at re is no rp on en ne ry nd le on .
a ne ry is a rn at is le se he ce es re ed en it ed re .
a " on " is a rn at is le se of he ay he ce es ve en ed to re al nt us ns , nd so ar as he ct is ed , is ay be le om he al ng .
he ng of ie on en al ll nd on or le on ms to be ic of an ry ( tt , 3; er , 23 ) .
he ve re of an ry is ng ly se it ts th he rd rs we se .
we nd to nk at a ry em ld rk by ng al es of ms nd en ng he ed py , as in a ng et or a al er se .
ch ms re ot
if we ew ry as a ss ch ts a rn of ty at ts he st le em ch is nt th he en es , we ed me ee at it ll ge on he on of he em at st ts he on , gh it ht be le to es et a od ut ot al it .
it is sy to ne is ng , ut it is er to ke it ly rk .
ne nt ch to is em is to se al cs to ze he or of ps of ng ic ts ( on , ki & ey , 23 ) .
he is es at he er an em ts he on , he re ly it is to be ed as he on .
23 : ty nd on
en a ew em is ed , he ns in he on hs st ot pe ut ng ms .
is an be ed by ng a ry ge er of ts ry ly .
if he ns rc ll in he on at ps he rn at is ng ed , re ll be a cy ct : he al lp or he ed rn ll be he um of ll ie ll te ns .
or ed ns , er , re ll be ry le er of ct se me of he ns ll lp nd me ll er .
ad of ll he ll ns ng er , ey ll ly el ut .
is nd of al ng ns st ed ry ls , ut re rc ny ns of he ic ea ( ee on nd on , 23 ) .
it is le to nt ce er by ng al ns of ty or he us ms to be ed .
er , is es ne of he st ng es of ed ns : ey ly ve se to ns .
if he sk is ly to er ly a et of ed ms , he on ts re ul nd rc ed ce .
ut on is ly a it ws us to al ly th ns at re ar ut ot al to ly ed ns .
le re od at ng ly ed ge .
if ou rn a ew ct ut an ct , ur ns ut er ar ts nd to ge .
if , or le , ou rn at es ke ns ou ll ly se ur te of he ty at as ke ns .
in a rk at es hc ew ge ut es ed ns , is nd of on is ic .
is ed by ng me of he on hs so as to er he al ts of he ed rn of ty at ts es .
23 he ns ly ge he al ts of ll ar ty ns .
so if he on of as is a ar ty rn er he me et of ts , ts al ts ll be ed in a ar ay .
he ry st ed me ld nt he pt of on nd he pt of ee by ve ty ns er he ry me et of ts .
it ld en be rd to nt ps nd ns at he me me .
is em an be ed by ng te es or ch le le of an em in a er re .
ps , or le , re he " nt " of he ng nd so a rn ng ps es he " nt " le nd he rn ng ns es he " nt "
he al re of is rn ay so ge .
re is ys a ce en ng he ts on he ng ns nd ng he rn lf so at nt ng ns me nt .
es in he rn lf er ts ty to er ns nd by er ow on ll ur in re .
it is ly ch er to re ut ow to ge he rn at ts an em an it is to re ut ow to ge he ng ns so at a ar rn ll ve he ed ts on er rt of he rk .
le ( ec re 23 ) .
ch le an ve ve ns or ll he us ms , so is me es ot ve al ns of ms .
at is ed is he le .
if ou ly rn at ns nd ns do ot ke ns ur te of he ty at as ke ns ll ll , gh it ay ll in er an it as ly .
ly , he on of ts ts at ng ns is a ar rk of es .
a em at es ed ns ll ly ve at is on , ed at he ve ns at nt he us es rc ed to ne er in a ar ay at is at re ic an st ng ar to ne er : re ds to be a rt of ch te rn at is al or ll ie us es .
in er ds , he up of ts ed or he ed ns st be ed to wo ub - ps , nd ll he is es st be ed by he me rn in he st ub - up , ut by nt ns in he nd ub - up .
he rn of ty er he st up ts he pe of he em , nd he rn er he nd ub - up ts al " ro - es " at te ch ce of he pe om he er es
en he em ns a ew ct ut es , it ly as no ay of ng er he ct is ue of ll es or is st a ty of es .
he us gy is rc to fy he hs of he ns ng om ll he ve ts , so at he ew ge ll be ly a ty of es in al , nd ly a ty of er es sh ps om er es .
if it is ly ed at er es do ot ke ns , ns ll be de in ie se on so at he on ut ns is no er ed th he rn at is on to ll es .
he ge ut ns ll en be ed to he ub - rn at es ps om er es .
if it ad ed ut at ns nd ns ad so ed ns , he ns in he ts ng om he ub - rn ng es ld ve ed ne er , nd he ge ld ve me ed th he ub - rn ed by ll es er an th he ns at sh ne pe om er .
a ry le on of is ry of on as en ed in a er on ( on , 23 ) .
it ks , ut as th ll ns , ny ed nd ry ns ad to be de to ce a ng em .
re is an us on of he ea at he on of an em is ed of wo ts , ne a* ts he pe nd er at ts he ay in ch is ar ce rs om
ny et of he ro - es an be de - od to ne a pe ne et ht be on to ll es , nd a nt ( ut
ng ) et ht be on to ll ts .
is ws an em to be an ce of ny nt es ly .
re 23 : in is ed me re re wo nt es , ne of ch ts he nt nd he er he nt .
to te he ct at es ke ns , he rn or es in ne le st be ed th he rn or ns in he er le .
ps er an " ng " an be ed by ng a rd up of ts se rn of ty ts he ip .
is rn st en " te " he ns en he nt nd nt ps .
on ( 23 ) es ne ay of ng is ng by ng a th up of ts .
rs of he me pe .
st ll es re es es of re al es , nd is an be ed by ng he rn at ts he pe to wo ub - ns , ne or he re al pe of ch is pe is an ce , nd he er or ie es at te is ar pe om rs es of he me al pe .
us ie on en a pe nd an ce an be ed by he ip en a et of ts nd a er et at es it .
ce at he re al he pe , he er he et of ts ed to de it .
as he er of ms in an on ts er , he ng al et ts er .
in a rk at es al ns , it is ss us ow to do on .
en at es ke ns , he us ay of ng he ew ge is by ng he hs of ns ng to he ee it .
ut is es ot ly ge ns at ng to ie la it .
so ra es st be ed to nt on in a st me .
ne ly ed od is to ow on to ad om a al it to er ts at nt ar ts ( an , 3; ns nd us , 23 ) .
en en ne pt it is ed , it ll ly te ts rs nd he so ny ge ed in he ns ng om se rs ll be ly ve .
ny ns of is ic ea ve en ed ( in , 3; nd , 3; an , 23 ) nd ve en wn to be te ve .
it is rd to ke a an on en ms ch se al ns us ng on nd ms ch se ed ns .
in th es ie lt of ng a pt is at ny nt re ts re ve .
he in ce is at in ne se re is a ar al re it at ts as a " le " ch es it sy to ch ly al es ke he me of he pt .
it is ly us at it is er to ch an ry me to a ed rn an it is to ch it to a le it .
as we ll ec in on 23 , ch ns re ot to
23 : es of ed ry
ce he 23 ' s , re ve en a ge er of er ns of ed ry es .
ny nt ns of he me ic as ve en ed ly .
is on ts to ce me er to he on of ls by ng em in a ry ee th he st ic ns st he ot ( ee re 23 ) .
he ue ce of ls as a ch er re of es nd es an an be ed by a ee , ut it ' s a nt on .
ny of he ns al th he re of he ut - ut ns ed or he al ts .
a ll on of he us ns ll ar in rt , on nd nd ( in ss ) .
re by ng
en re ts .
re by 23 a or at as ry as ny ts as
a le em .
on - ar on )
aw et
ty ls j
. ty ls j
on & er , 23
on on \
l ty ls j
' te es .
& ey , 23
ew , 23 ft
re 23 : a on of me ed ry ls .
a ew es of ch pe of el re en .
23 : se ng
is on rs he er of ts at rc ed to de es ly .
he al lt is a ng ne .
if ou nt to de es ly ng as ew ts as le , it ys to se ts at rc ry ly ed , so at ch re es ny nt ts nd ch it is ed by ny nt es .
a ic re is cn ed by a rn of ty in ny ts cr an by a le ve it , so se ng is a rm of ed on .
to ep ie cs le , we ll me at he ts ve ly wo es , on nd ff . 23 we ll so re he cs of he em se he on of st , or he me ng , is ow ny ts it es to de es th a en cy .
we rt by ng he nd of re at an be ly ed by ng a pe ( e . g .
ne - nt , er , ot ) nd he es of me us rs at sh it om er es of he me pe ( e . g .
on , on , ze . ) or ch pe of re re is a ce of le es .
ch us er es a on of he re ce , nd ch ar re ds to a nt in he ce .
or es ke ts in a ne , he ce of le es is wo - al .
or es ke ed , ed ge - ts in 23 - d ce , he re ce is ix - al .
we ll rt by ng 23 - d re es nd en ze to er es .
se at we sh to nt he on of a le ot in a ne , nd we sh to ve gh cy ut ng oo ny ts .
we ne he cy of an ng me to be he er of nt gs at re ed as he ot is ed a rd ce gh he ce .
ne od ng me ld be to de he ts to an x up nd a y up , nd te ch it to ng a ar x or y al as wn in re 23
a en ot ld en be ed by ty in wo ts , ne om ch up , nd he cy ld be al to he er of ts ed .
ly , if wo ts ve to be ed at he me me he od ks wn .
he wo ts ll te wo ts in ch up , nd re ll be no ay of ng , om he ve ts , er he ts re at ( xl , yl ) nd ( 23 , 23 ) or at ( xl , 23 ) nd ( 23 , yl ) .
is is ed he ng em .
it es se he on es ot fy at es th at .
in a al er it is sy to ve he ng em .
we ly te wo ds in he er ry .
ch rd ns a ir of es at go er as es of ne ot , nd
ar ts ly th ti - ed ty ls , ut it is nt ot to ow ty le - ls to ve ry on ,
se is es it le to nt an te nt of on in a le ty el .
o 23 o o o o o
re 3a : a le ay of ng wo ps of ry ts to de he on ot a nt in a 23 - d ce .
he ve ts in he x nd y ps nt he x nd y es .
o o 23 o o o 23 o
re 3b : en wo ts st be ed at he me me , it is le to ll ch x te es th ch y te .
he ng on is ed by he ct at he wo te es rc ng in he me rd ( ch ly ns ey rc ng in ng ry ns ) .
in ' el ks , it is ch er to ve he ng em .
ne ch is to et de , in ce , ne it or ch le on of x nd y es .
is ts to ng he ne th a ge er of ll , on - ng es , nd ng a it to ch ne .
a ot is cn ed by ty in a le it so is is a al on .
it is ch ss nt an ie us me se ie cy is ly al to he re ot of ie er of ts .
in al , or a k - al re ce , ie al ng ds an cy al to he k th ot of ie er of ts .
ng gh cy is us ry ve .
he se of ne it or ch te re ay be a le ng if a ry ge er of es re ed on ch on , so at a ge on of he ts re ve .
er , it is a ry nt ng if ly a ry ll on of he le es re ed at ce .
he ge nt of on ed by he te of a ry it is 23 it if he it is ve lf he me , nd it is ch ss if he it is ly ly ve .
23 it ld re be re nt to se an ng in ch a er on of he ts re ve at ny nt .
is an be ne if we on he ea at ch te re is ed by ty in a le it
se we de he ce to er , ng es nd gn a it to ch ne .
or ty , i ll me at he es rc ar , at ir rs ve a rm om on ut he ce , nd at ll he es ed by a en ng me ve he me us .
he on of st is ow ly a re is ed as a on of he us of he es .
if we ve a en er of ts at ur al is it er to se ge es so at ch re nt ls in ny es , or is it er to se ll es so at ch re is ed by ty in er ut re ly ed ts ?
he cy is al to he er of nt gs at re ed as we ve a re nt ng a ht ne om ne de of he ce to he cr .
ry me he ne es he ry of a ne , he ng of he re nt es se he ty of he it ng to at ne es .
so he er of te es ng he ne is st ce he er of es at he ne es .
23 he ne es ry ne se er es in ne us of he ne ( ee re 23 ) .
is er is al to he us of he es , r , nd it is so al to ir er , n .
ce he
nt of on ed by a it at as a ty of p of ng on is
ms se if ou er nd ve a ne ut ng er ne rs in en .
ou rt to he me ng as
re .
is ct is le if he es re se gh or re to be ny es ng ch nt in he ce .
re 23 : he er of ne es at re ut by he ne is al to he er of ne rs in ne ne us of he ne .
cy , a is ed to he er of es nd to ir us as ws :
a a nr
in al , or a k - al ce , he er of es se rs ie in ne us of a ne gh he ce is al to he me of a k - al er - er of us r .
is me is al to he th of he er ( ch is ed ) es ts k - 23 al ss - al ea ch is al to r* " 23
ce , he cy is en by :
so , or le , ng he us of he es es by a or of 23 he ar cy th ch a ix - al re ke a ed ed 23 - d ge is ed .
he ve ea at er es ad to er ns is ly ng , se ed ns ld on ch re ly an al es .
en gh ch ve it is ss ic in ts ng , he on of ve ts is ar re ic .
23 ce so at th se ng he cy is al to he er of ts , ch is ch er an ng al to he k* ot of he er .
ts at nd to ex es in ic ps in al ex en ve ly ge ve ds .
is is en ed as he st ep on he ay to a on nt on .
er , it ay be at he on of he ge ds is ot to ve on ce ut to nt ly re he re is !
ns on se ng
so ar , ly he es of se ng ve en ed , nd ts ic ts ve en ed .
re rc a er of ns ch se he se ng gy to ak wn en ie " ve ds " me oo ge .
ne us on rs en he ds me le in ze to he le ce .
is on is ly of le st se er , re re , ms se re he ve ds me is ge .
se ng is ly ve en i^ . c es at st be ed rc ly se .
if ny re - ts re ed er , ch ve ld ll in ny es nd he ty rn in he se ed ts ll ot te en ny ve ns of re ts .
23 us re is a on / cy de - ff .
se ng an ve gh cy or he rs of es ed at es rc ly ed so at gh on is ot so ed .
as a gh le of mb , he er of he ve ds ld be of he me er as he ng en ly nt re - ts
he ct at se ng ly ks if he es re se ld be ng , en at ts ge er a al ng is at it es ie on ty of ie ts re ly by ng ch it ve re en .
if he es re so se at he ts ld be ve or ut lf ie me ng a al ng , se ng an ly ke gs se .
a nd or on on he se of se ng ms om ie ct at ie on of a re st be ed to ct er ns .
re is no nt ng se ng if ie es ve to be ed as ty in ly ed ts re ey an ve he te ts on er ns .
if we me at he ct of a ed on is he um of he ts of he al ve ts at te he on , re is a ng on on he es er ch se ng an be ed ly .
by es ll be ed by ar ts of ve ts , nd so ey ll ly nd to ve ar ts .
ly ng , se ng is ly ul if he ed ct of a re is he ge of ie ed ts of ts rs .
at a ne gh le is is ly ys ue or al ks .
he le at ch it ks wn es an er it on he ze of he ve ds .
23 lf he ts re ed to ve er ty ls at ct he er of re ts ng in ir ds , a ew by
ts an be ed , ut ot ny .
23 it is ng at ny of he ic al ns te ns en es at a ce ch er an he ty in he ts ge of he on of a re .
is is st at ld be ed if se ng is ng ed to nt ex es ly .
er on is at er se ed ns ct , re is a cy or he ss to se .
to ct is cy , it is ly ry to ve al on ng in ch on
se ng nd er is
re is an te gy en se ng nd er is .
er , or le , he em of ng he se me at ch a ck rs ng er is .
a le ck of se ns er at ny nt es .
to de ts se al on it is nt to de ie ow cy on ly .
he gh es re ly ed or ng ly ed ks .
a rd ay to ct he ow cy on is to ss ie ck gh a ow - ss er ch rs it in me nd en to le he ed ck at ar ls .
he se of ge ve ds in se ng is he og of he ng ss , nd he er ts of he ds rc ie og of ie le ts .
he on at he ve ld er st be le th he ng en es is he og of ie ng em ch es at he ar on en le ts st ot ed lf he th of he st th ts ed gh he ng ss .
he gy is ot ct , er , se a er ng is ly ed to nt a us on er an a er of te re ts , nd ch nt in ie er ng is a al - ed er cr an a et of ry on ls .
se ng nd al ta - es
in a al er , ny ce of he al se ry an be ed or ny ta - re .
is ws he er to et by th ch ss ry an ld be ed if it ad to et de , in ce , a al ce of ry or ch le ta - re .
he my is le se , on ny ne on , ly a ry ll on of ll he le ta - es ed to be nt , so he ry me ce of ry an be ed or nt ta - es on nt ns .
in a rk in ch he ge is ed in he on hs , it is ch er to ke ts nd or nt gs on nt ns .
to be ve as a on , ty in a it st ve he ht al ts on er ns , so ss he hs of ts ng ns an be ed ly , he " ng " of a it ot ly be ed .
se ng ws he me it to be ed to lp nt ny nt es at nt es ut ng he on hs .
he er of he ve ld is at es he rk of
is ue es er ch .
ng up he ce of le es to ll es .
23 on ny ne on , st of he er of a en it ll be nt se he er ve ts ll dy ve ed he re ly ly nd so it ll be wn ot to be ar st of he er .
er , at rt of ne er ch ts he al on of ty ft by he er ts ll ct to se he cy , se he te of he it ll te er he re ls de or de of is rt of he er ( ec re 23 ) .
on nt ns , nt ts of he er ll be ng he rk .
is ty to se he me it in nt ys on nt ns is a ll ep ds he le se of al ty at es al rs so ul .
if a it as a ve ld th a ge er , it ay do nt rk on nt ns .
he al on of he it in ng wn he se rs of a re nt ds on he ge of ty ft by he er ts .
te nt ts of he er of it a re nt on nt ns .
ne us ss of se ng is at ts se ds ve a ge ap nd to ve ly ed es .
is is nt .
to ze he cy , he al ts ld ve ed ve ds , so at ty in ne it es no on ut ty in er ts .
is is st at is ed by he rd ry on of us es .
ly , ry ns re lt to se in ms re ll he ge is in he ns se he ve ld of he st nt it is ry ed , ch ly es it rd to re ul ge in he hs of he ns ng om at it
at is hy he cy is al to he de of he er .
on to on - us es
he le ng se ng an be ed to on - us es by ng of a et of ms as ie nt of a ve ld .
a al on es ne it or ch le em .
a ed on es a it or a et of ms , nd it ly es a ar em as he on of ie ts at nd to he ve ts .
in ie in of al es rc is ly a ry ng ty : ts of es th ar er es ed to ve ar ts on er ns .
se ng is nt se it ws is ty to be ed in ie on hs .
in er ns , he es re nt , ut he cy ts rc he me : it is er to te a it to a et of ms an to a le em , ed he et is en in ch a ay at ip of ie et es ng ut ip of er ts .
is on an en be ed as a on th .
it is , of se , a ry lt ch em to de ch ar ts of ms ld nd to ly , a et ld be en so at ip of is et as ng ns or ps of er ts at rc so ed by al ts .
he ty to er ch ts is al if ed ns rc to be ve , ut is rt is ot ed th he ng em .
he ed er is ed to on , ki & ey ( 23 ) re a od of ng od ts is ed in il .
23 : ng an ry ng en wo ns
is on ws ow a ed on in ne up of ts an se an te ed on in er up of ts .
we er ie em of ng an ry ng en ns in he wo ps , nd we ke as an le he on en he al rm of a rd nd ts ng .
he on or ng an ry ng is at is is he se in ch al ns em st ul .
if ed ns re er en in is se , en ey re ly er in es re re re ng es at an be ed by ar ns en ts in ne up nd ts in er .
if we ct es to no - ic ds , he ng om gs of es to gs rs to be ry in he se at ng at me gs of es an cs ot lp ne ct at a ew ng ns .
23 is ss in he ng om es to gs is at
23 cn or no - ic ds re ay be ar ts at ve ed ng .
or le , ds ng th sn m ly an ng nt to do th he ps or se ( er , rl , er ) , nd ds th ng ls re re ly to nd or ge ow gs an ds th rt ls ( ge ff , al on ) .
ch of is ol ' s ry cs on ch ts .
es ty to ls at ve it rd ts .
it is us at ry gs an be ed if re rc ch ts .
a me ng es ly ne rd it , nd is es er ng we sh to te th it ( ec re 3a ) .
he cs of ar me gs an en be ly nt se ey rc ed by te rd ts .
re is ne of he ic on at is ic of ed ns .
it is ot at ll us at ry gs an be ed in a em re he te er of ts es he rd as a ed rn of ty ad of as ty in a le al it .
he ed ve rs to ve a us ck .
he ct of a rn of ty on er ns is he ed lt of he al ts of he ve ts in he rn .
so ar ns nd to ve ar ts .
it rs at we re ot ee to ke a en rn ve er ct we sh on he ng ns , ut by ng he ts at er ns ve .
is nd of on rs to ke it lt to nt ry gs om ed ns of ds to ng ns .
i ll ow ow at se ns re ng , nd at ed ns of ds an rk ly ll nd ay en be re nt an le
re 3b ws a ee - ed em in ch me / on ts ed to " rd - et " ts ch , in rn , ed to " ic " or " me " ts .
or ty , we ll me at ch it is er ve ( se ns an be ed ut or ve , nd at re is no ck or ss - lk .
he nt ) .
a rd - et it is ed er me / on ts es a rd in a ar et he et ld be ll he ur - er ds ng th " he " , or le , or ll he ds ng at st wo " t m , s .
ll at is ed is at it is le to de er a rd is in he et by ng a le st to he ed me / on ts .
so , or le , he et of ll ds ng " ce " is ot ed as a rd - et 23 ng to re 3b , he on is er it is le to nt an ry et of ns en me / on rs nd me rs en he rd - et ts re ch ed by re an ne rd .
it ll be nt to er st ne of he ny le ic ls .
et us me at an ve rd - et it es ve ut to ll he me ts at ur in he ng of ny rd in ie rd - et et us so me at ch me it as a le ld at is ly ed to be st
he rn of
ls of is pe , nd ly ed ts , ve en ed by aw ( 23 ) , on ( al on ) , nd by
id er ( ed op lk , 23 )
23 re is an it on at rd gs an be ed as ts of es .
is is a us ue .
re rs to be a lf en he al ew in ch a ng is a et of es nd he st ew in ch he ts ps to er gs .
on 23 es ne ay of ng se ng of a rd an ly be ed in ms of wo ws by ng ed ns to be lt ut of a er of nt ts of ve es .
re 3a : a nt of a ee er rk .
he om er ns ts at nt ar es in ar ns in he rd .
he le er ns ts at ze te ds , nd he op er ns ts at nt ic es of he ng of he rd .
is rk es al ns of ds in he le er .
re 3b : he op nd om rs re he me as in re 3a , ut he le er es a re ed on .
ch it in is er an be ed by he ic on of ny ne of a le et of ds .
he it en es ut to ry ic re at rs in he ng of ny of he ds at te it .
ly se rd - ts ng he rd " at " re wn in is le .
ce at he ly ic es ch ve ut om ll se rd - ts re he ic es of at
ly ss an he er of ve rd - et ts .
ly me ts at re ng ut om ry
ve rd - et it ll cn me ve .
ll he es of he ct rd ll be ed , se ch of se es ll ur in he ng of ne of he ds in he ve rd - ts .
er , al es ay so be ed se , st by ce , cy ay ve ut om ry ve rd - et it .
or a me to ve ss ut an ts ld , re st be at st ne ve rd - et at es ot in ny rd ch as ie me as rt of ts ng .
or ch ve rd - et he ty , / , of is ng is :
/ = ( l - p ) < * - d
re p is he on of ds at in he me nd w is he er of ds in ie rd - et of he rd - et it he on or he rm w - 23 is at he me is dy ed ot to be rt of he ng of he ct rd , so re re ly w - 23 ng ds at ld ve it in ir ng .
me at en a rd is ed at ie ic el it es u ts at he rd - et el .
ch me at is ot rt of he rd ' s ng as a ty / of ng to ve ut om ch rd - et it .
he ty , / at ll of sc rd - et ts ll de ut to it is re
/ = ( l - 23 "
by on , is ty of a " se ve " me es to ro en w is 23
le 23 ws he ue of / or us ns of es of p , w , nd w .
ce at if p is ry ll , / c an in le en if w is te ge .
is ns at ed ns in ch ch rd - et it es in he on of ny ds , do ot ad to rs if he ic es re ly se in ie se at ch rd ng ns ly a ll on of he al et of es .
so he rd - et ts an be ly on - ic ed he me ts re ly ic ( ot ed by oo ny nt rd gs ) .
me of he es in he le ke it ar at or me es of p , re an be a le ce of or en gh he er of rd - et ts is ly ss an he er of ds ( he io of ds to rd - et ts is w / u ) .
he le ed ve es ny ng ns .
or le , ch rd - et it is
23 x 23 ~ 23 23 x 23 " 23
23 x 23 23 ~ n 23 x 23 " 23 23 x 23 " 23
23 x 23 " ' 23 x 23 23 " 23
. 23 23 x . 23 23 x
le 23 : he ty , f , of a se ve me as a on of he er of ve rd - et ts er rd , u , he er of ds in ch rd - et , w , nd he ty , p , of a me ng rt of a rd ng .
ed to be ed to ry nt me it if ny of se ns re ng , we ld ot rd to ve he me ts a ld al to he er of ve rd et ts .
to ow or ng ns we ld er he ld , ut is ld se he se - ve or te .
ly , we ld ke ch rd - et it to he es at do ot ur in ny of ts ds .
is me is ar re st st ng ns , se he ce of ne to an be ed if re re er os ( on on , al on ) .
re re wo re ng ns th of ch ad to an te of he ss of ed ns or he ry ng sk .
st , he ns me at re is no ne - ng re or ng me ts nd ng rs to ve ce in he es re he st nt rs ur .
nd , he ns re ss - lk ng he es .
if ch rd - ng is a ar le rn of es re ll be a ng " an - up " ct ch ds to ss us es as on as he rn of on at he me el is
ly se to he ar rn or a ar rd - ng .
ns ng he es so ' de an on or he ty of a le me ng ( e . g .
" nk " ) to it wo te nt gs .
he " om - up " ct of he ed rd - et ts ps th ts of es , ut as on as " op - wn " rs ve an ge to ne ng , he es in he er ng ll be ed by ve ns at he me el ( to nd on , 23 ) .
as on as re is ss - lk ng he me ts nd ne ng of al ts to id nt rs , he ly ht - rd ic is en ve t ks wn .
to ve he ss - lk me to an up he ut , it h ry to se an ve re ad of he le " ht - gh " ng in ch ch er ly es ie es of ll he ts in he nt er in a le , us ep .
ms ng ss - lk , ck , nd us ng ts re ly re ic as ls of he in , ut ey re ly ry rd to ze .
er , re is a al ss of se re ex ms at es in a le ay nd is le of ng ds of ch nd ng or ( on , ki & cy , 23 ) .
it es ng ts at re ly ic .
ly , he se of ic ts es se ks er at ng es , er at ng , nd er to ze .
a le rk of is nd is ed to te me of ie ms ut ie ty to " an up " he ut by ng ns ng me ts , nd he ty to id rs by ne ng he te ts .
he rk ns 23 me ts , 23 rd - et ts , nd 23 me ts .
re re no ct ns en me nd me ts , ut ch rd - et it is ed to ll he me nd me ts .
he me ts re ed to ee ts of en , nd ch ee - er rd as ne ve it in ch up of en ( ts an ly ve ty ls of 23 or 23 ) .
he " ng " of a rd is en at om by ng ch me it to be ve th a ty of 23 .
he rk wn in re 23 as ed to ed 23 nt me gs th ir en gs .
ch rd - et it is ed in he on of ny ds , nd ch rd es ny
on & ki ( in ss ) be he ls of he ng re ch as ed to te is rk nd he ch re ch as ed to le on a et of ve es en en he ic ut re we ly ze he in ts of he on .
er a ng od of ng , he rk as le to ce he ct rn of es 3% of he me en en a ic ut al of ny ne of he rd - et ts er he ng ly ed a ht se in he or te or al nt ds er an he te ss of ne rd
re 23 : a ct ay at ws ll he on hs in a ee - er rk ch an ap 23 nt ic gs to he ng ns of ve ic es .
he op 23 ws of he ay rc he ic ts , he le wo ws re he te ts , nd he om ee ws rc he me ts .
in ch it , he ck or te bs ow he hs of ts ns to er ts .
le bs re ve ns , ck re ve , nd he de of a ob ts ie th of he
on .
he ve on of a ob in a it es he ve on in he le rk of he er it ed in he on ( it is as if ch it ed a le ap of he le et ) .
ll on hs re he me in th ns , so ry th is ed ce in is ay .
in he on re he on en a it nd lf ld be ed , he ld of he it is wn ( ck ns a ve ld )
23 , 23 ts th a ng rd - et it re re 23 rs .
me of sc ed of ne or wo ng or ra es , ut 23 of he rs re ly ie rn of es of me er rd .
is is a lt of he ve ns ng ie me ts .
if ie ut ng om ie rd - et ts is sy , ie an up ct ay le on a ar ut ct ng .
is ct is nt of a on ed ep ia ch rs th in ds of in ge in ts .
en wn a rd nd ed to ad it , he ct ll es ay a nt rd th a ry ar ng .
he ct rd es as a ry nt nd nd ng .
or le , en wn he rd " ch " he ct ht ay " ot " ( ee rt & on ( 23 ) or re on ut ed ia ) .
ic rs of is nd em re se it ms as if he ct st ve ed ie al em ch in er to ke ie ly ed or , nd if he an et to ie al em hy an ' t he ay it ? ( se ts ay ow nd be le to ay he ds at ey ad ) .
ed ns ow us to se th he id on en ng a rd nd ot ng it .
in a rk at as ed he rd " ch " , he ic on of " ch " ll se ly he ht ut to he me ts , nd ns at he me el an en se ly he rn of es or ot .
er ly ng ct rs en ie rk ns er it as en ed .
he rk as ed by ng se to ry on at ed a rd - et it .
is ed he ce om 3% ct to 3% .
23 he rk as en ed nd it ed ry id ng , ch er an ts al te of ng en ts ce as 3% ct .
is id ry ' as ed by a al nt ch ws at re is ng al ut a et of on hs at is ed by ng se to a ar - ct et he ng et is ry nt om er ts of on hs at it ie me ce , ( ee on & ki , in ss ,
an en re ng ct rs if a ew of he ds re ed om he ng .
he or te or se ds is ly ed as he ng ds , en gh he er me - me gs ve no ic on to em se ll he gs re ed ly .
he " us " ry of ds at he rk is ot wn in is a lt of he se of ed ns .
ll he ts re ed in ng he et of he ds at re wn ng ng , nd so he ed se ds to be ed om ry ht .
a me at ed a te it or ch rd ld ot ve in is ay , so ne an ew us ry of ed ms as a
23 23 t he or te as 3% er an 3% in is le se
ts ad ss me to le on he al ut
he rk as ed to nd er , so he ve
ve re of ed ns .
23 : ng ew ts
ny le me or ng ge st be le of ng el ts at ld ot be ed at he me ie rk as ly ed up .
a me at es al ns st st ke a te on ut en to rm a ew pt , nd nm it st nd a re re it at as le ns or ng he pt ed .
ng ch a it ay be lt if we me at , er a od of ly nt , ew ge is ed by ng he hs of ie ng ns er an by ng ew es .
if ch it ly as ns to a ll on of he rs , re ll ly ot be ny ts at re ed to st he ht er es to nt a ew pt .
or le , in a on of a on ts ch ed at om to en nd rs , he ce of re ng ny it at is ed to a ar et of 23 rs is ly ne in a on .
in an pt to ue al ns om is em , al er es ve en ed at se wo es of ts .
he ts at nd to ts rc ot ly ed to ne er .
ad , he ns re ed by ct ys gh al rs of te ts ( an , 3; an , 23 ) .
is me ks se ie er of al ys gh he te rs ar ds he al er of al ns .
if re re k rs of ts ch of ch as a an - ut of n ns to ly ed ts in he ng er , re re n k al ys .
re is st in to be a ay ng ny wo pt - ts , nd so he te ts ng is ay an be ed to ng se wo pt - ts .
er , se es nd up ng to te al te ts to ch ve on , nd ce he on as ed , ll ut ne of he al ns ng om ch te it re ed .
he se of al te ts to te a le ve on ay be te in ng ks ng ts at ve ts th ly ll an - ut ut it ms to be an nt ay of ng he re of he in .
he ms of ng a it to nd or a ew pt nd ng it up ly do ot se if we se ed ns .
ll we ed to do is fy he ns en ts so as to te a ew le rn of ty .
if is is ne by ng a ge er of ns ry ly , he on of a ew rn ed ot pt ie ng ns .
he lt em is to se an te rn or he ew pt .
he ts of he ew on on ns in er ts of he em ll be ed by he ts at re ve , nd so it is nt to se a on of ve ts at ve ly he ct ts .
ne - ng of he ts of he ew rn an be
ed by ly ng he ts of he ve ts it ns , ut it ld be se to se a om rn or a ew pt , se or es ld en be ed in ie ts , nd is ld pt er ge .
ly , he ed on at is en or a ew pt ld be he ne at es he st on of ts to ke he ew rn le nd to ke it ve he ed ts on er ns .
ly , it is ot ry to te a ew le rn ll in ne ep .
it is le or he rn to ge as a lt of ns on ny te ns .
is es an rd em at a / cs th al ns : he em st ke a te ll - or - nc on ut en to te a ew pt .
if we ew ts as le ns ey re ch ss te in er .
it is le , or le , to te ne le rn to wo ly ed ut nt ts by ng me of he ts ly .
ss we re ed to ne he re ts ( nd ll ir ns ) , is nd of al al on is ch er to ve th al ns .
23 : ng nt re
ny em ch ts to nt he ds of al es at le se as to be le of ng wo er nt ds of hy .
he st is he " sa " hy at es es to es of se es .
he nd is ie rt / le hy at es ms to ie nt ms at ey re ed of .
he st nt cs of he sa hy re at wn es of he es st be " ed " by he es , nd es at rc nd to ly to ll es of a pe st ly be ed to he pe .
in on 23 we aw ow he sa hy an be ed by ng he ed on of an ce de , as a rt , he ed on or he pe .
is al ck ly ds he st nt cs of he sa hy , ut he ck an ly be ed or ne nd of hy .
if we se he rt / le ip en ns of ty to nt he pe / ce ip en ms , it rs at we ot so se it to nt he rt / le ip en ms .
we ot ke he on of he le be he um of he ns of ts ts .
he on of ow to nt he ip en an em nd he nt ms of ch it is ed as en a or ng ck or es at te ed ns .
in he al , st me , a le is a de at is ed by ed cs to he es or ts ts .
ut he al et of he ed me is at nt ms nd to ve ns of ty in he me et of ts , so it ms as if a le nd ts ts ot th be ed at he me me .
i an ly ee ne ay ut of is ma .
it es on he ct at es re ot ly he ms of ir
ts , cy rc ed of ts at ay ar es in ie le re .
a pe , or le , is ed of er es at ve a ar ze , on nd on ve to he le .
ch nt pe as ts wn al le , nd ie le pe is ed of a et of pe / le rs .
23 ly , a on is ed of ts at py ar ic es in he le al re .
is ts a ay of ng ie ip en es nd ts : he ty of ch rt ld st be ed th ts le to ce a le rn at ts he on of he ty nd he le , nd en he ed on or he le ld st of he um of he ed ns or sc ty / le ns ( us me al " nt " es ) .
23 is al rs om ie le ea at ie on of he le is he um of he ns of ts ts , se ie ns ed to nt ty / le ns rc te nt om ie ns ed to nt he es ne .
ey do ot , or le , in se ns as ts .
ly , re st be an ss th en he on of an em as a le in ts wn ht nd he on of at me em ng a ar le in a er re .
it st be le , or le , to te he ty / le on om wo te , it , ed ns ne of ch ts he ty nd he er of ch ts he le .
it st so be le to go he er ay nd te he it ns of he ty nd le om he le ed on of he ty / le on ( ee re 23 ) .
he se of ns at nt ty / le ns ws he rt / le hy to be ed in he me ay as he pe / ce hy .
a le is ly a ar ce of a er of re al es , ch of ch an be ed as he pe at as a ar nd of rt ng a ar le ( e . g en th en gs ) .
al ol ng
if nt re is ed in he ay ed ve , re is a us ue ut ow ny es an be ve at ny ne me .
he us ay to te he re is to se a up of ts or ch le le in a re nd to ke ie rn of ty in is up nt he ty of he nt at is ly ng at le .
is es at ly ne re an be ed at a me , ch is ly a ry re on .
er , le do em to er om ng ts
ps en ts re nt as ll .
ne ge of ly ng pe / le rs is at it ws nt rs to rt ch er .
ne an ew he us nt ns in an ct as ts nd he es of ts of an ct as he rs of se ts .
ge of a le pe an en be ed by ve ns en he us
ee on , 23 or a on at es is al ue .
re 23 : a ch of he us at ht be ry or ng te ns of an ty nd a le to a le rn .
ly ne ty nd ly ne le an be dy ed at a me se he ty nd le ps an ch ly ve ne rn of ty at a me .
er , he us le ps ow ny ty / le ns to be ed ly .
he ll ar ls nt he ty of he rn of ty in he up at ly ts a le to ne ch ne of he ny le ps is ly ng th he ty up .
is ws he ty ng a ar le to be " ad ut " as ll as ng he se on of ng an ty nd a le .
on he er of es of he me al pe at ey an ss at ce .
to a st on , le re al ol rs ( ll , 23 ) .
he ty at ey it at is gh el of on is ly ng en he ly el re of he in , ut it es ch er to nd if we on ur st ns in or of he ed ve ch es he sm to ve ch ve on a ry ch al re at ws he ht ds of on nd nt - ty .
ne al et of he al ol ng ch ( ll , 23 ) is he ty to us on ny rt of a re nd to nd at to a le at is st as ch in nt as he al le of ch it as a rt .
he ve ty to nd ts of a re or ly ny ls , nd he se ty to ge up le es to a ed rm at ws em to be ed as ts of er es is he ce of ol ng .
it ws a em to ld es ut of gs at er to er le es ut ng at se er es be ed in ll ir
in al er ns is ty is ed by ng rs .
se re ry nt ut ey nd on he se of es .
in a el rk , we ed ng at is ly nt to ry rs in er to nt ol ng .
is is dy at is ed by ns at nd or ty / le ns .
ey ow he ll ty of he rt to be ed om a on of he le nd a on of he le at he em es to us on , nd ey so ow it ns of an ty nd a le to be ed to a ss me on , so at al ty / le ns an be ed ly in er to rm he on of a er re .
en a el rk , ms an be ed by ty in a le , al it , or by a rn of ty in a ge et of ts th ch it ng a " ro - re " of ie em .
ed ns re nt er re re ng es ch an be ed by ns ng ro - es .
by ng ch ce of ge as a ge et of ns it is le to ve ul es ke nt - le ry nd ic on , nd ew ms an be ed ut ng to te ew ns at he re el .
in he in of ly ng al es it is ly sy to de a al is of he es nd ks of ng ed ns .
ed ns em to be le or ng ly ry gs se
re is no ng re nd so on ly es ed ce .
er , en or is sk , ed ns an be de ly nt nd ey it me ly ng ts en ed .
re re al ry rd ms at st be ed re ed ns an be ed ly .
ne is to de on he rn of ty at is to be ed or ng an em .
he es en he en rn nd er ng ns ll ne ie ds of on nd ce at ur .
he ch or od ns to se is nt to he ch or he ng es of he in .
is ng em is ot ed re .
he ed er is ed to on , ki & ey ( 23 ) .
er rd em is to fy he ip en ed ns nd es ed in al ce ke as , or al al ns .
ng al ce ms ve at ty in ly ng he ma at st ts he nt on .
el ks er he al of ly ng a ot of ge to is st - it ch , ut is al ll ly be ed en re is a od ay of ng as in el ks .
