an re ls re ly he mi - nt ue or ng he on on of en ov ls or ch on .
we ow at er ne on on he it et an be ed by ng an re ls by ep al ks at in ny rs of es nd a ry ge er of rs .
se ks re st re - ed as a ti - er ve el of a ow of al re rs ut ng se of ny ve on .
ce he ve re - ng as ed he es , we rm ve ne - ng ng on to st he es ly to ke em er at ng a ty on er he es of ne en ov ls .
ng a re or at es ts of he al on of al - nd al es in a le al nd .
ub - rd or es re ed ng rd al ks or ch al nd nd se es re ed to ce he al te of he or es ng er rd al rk .
in ( 23 ) , he it al xt em is ed ch es he ap em by ng , in he le er of he em , ts er me as ll as er cy ds re he al er al rk .
rd al ks er al al an -
ex ic ng , ep ef ks , al
ks , ne on
a ic ch on ( sr ) as ed ni -
ly er he st ew es .
ly ms ly ed ed ts or es / no , as nt ys - ms an do te ll at ng ne - ty , on - us ch .
a ge nt of ss as en de in ng rd on es , ut he re ic ng as ed ly le , te ny ts to op er es .
a al sr em es en ov ls ( ms ) to el he al re of ch ls , th ch mm te ng a re of ns to el a al on of he nd ve .
he st on al on is a et of el cy al ts ( cs ) ed om a ow of ut 23 ms of ch .
he ow is ly ed by ut 23 ms er me , nd ch me of ts is ed th es nd es of es th by es .
ne ch on es ng er ic od - ls at in ny rs of es .
he rk in ( 23 ) ro - es a al rk re ch er is ed to re a et of ve re ks .
or ch re , a ed ic on is ed in ch at re is sy to ct .
in ( 23 ) , a ic ve el is ed re he ic re in he en al ct ce ce is ed to ze ng - an al ce ss ic ts .
rd al ks ve en ed in ny sr ms ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) .
ed by ts om ( 23 ) , he ap re ( 23 ) ls a le nd of ch
ht ( c ) 23 ee .
al se of is al
er , on to se is al or ny er es st be ed om he ee by ng a st to bs - ee . rg .
he rs re th he ty of to , to , on , 3s 23 , da .
( e - il : cs . to . u; cs . to . u; in -
es er ms :
ir on of he or es of mm es es ot re ed ns ut he
ey ow an sy ay of ng se es ,
ng th te nd us es .
ey se ar re of he ta to in ch er se he ut on ch ng se is ve to a ge on of he ts .
he et of ch ht
in a al rk ng ed by a er on of ng es an ch er in a mm as en ed by er es in ng .
al ks ve ly en ed ly ly , as ms re ly ed as ve ls ( en if ve ng is er - ed er in he ng re ) .
ve ng ws he ta to se ny re ts of nt on he rs ( ee ow ) , us ly ng or he ct at ch nt of a ge mm st be ed on a ry ll on of he ta .
cs , ms , nd ms co - ed as a ay of ng ch on en rs re oo ow to re re ly ve es .
cs ow ay a ot of he on in he nd ve , ut re - ve st of he on ed or on .
by ng al es , cs ly me he ry ng al ce on of ms , ly at ve es re nt en he en te of he mm .
he al es so ow al ce ns to el he ng al es by ng se ar se es to al ts .
as we ll ee , a er rm ed nk , ly ed on a el - le , al ve to cs or ls at an ly el ed es ( 23 ) .
ms re sy to t to ta ng he em hm , ly en ey ve al ce es , nd th gh ts ey an el ny on .
ey re , er , ly nt at ng gh - al ta at as ny nd of al re .
ed to ee ns .
on io , ch , nd ge ng
se , or le , at n ly nt ns an ur in ne ub - nd nd m ly nt at - ns an ur in er ub - nd .
se so at ch rn rs in ch ub - nd is ly nt .
a mm es n m ts to el is re se ch nt st te th ub - ds ( ch ce of ta as ly a le nt se ) .
on he er nd , a el at ns he ta ng le es ly es n + m ts , ch of ch is ic to a ar ub - nd .
is al cy of ms or ng al re ds to sr ms at ve a ry ge er of ns , st of ch st be ed om a ry ll on of he ta .
in is er , we us on a re ul ve to ms or ng mm es to re rs .
in ar , we er he se of ti - er , ed - rd al ks at ke a ow of re rs as ut nd ce or es of mm es as ut .
us ns of he al rk ch ve ed he on hm to in he al ks ly .
se es ed ly th a nd ed by ( 23 ) in ch ve ng is ed by ve ng .
ve ng is a ry le ng to do en ng rs at re oo ow to rn a ly od ve el of he ta .
as ve ls et er , er , he ge of ve ng ts 23 nd is ly ed by a or ge : he nt of nt at he ta es on he rs of a ve el is al to he er of ts ed to fy he ct ls of he ng es , as he nt of nt or a ve el is al to he er of ts ed to fy he ut rs of he ng es .
so en he ut rs in ch re re an he ls , a ve el an rn ny re rs re it ts .
he et of ng a ve el is ly ag - ed en re is a ge ly of ed ch in on to he ng ta at as en ed by a ed mm nt .
we do ot ke se of ed ta in is er , ut it ld ly ve ur ts ve to ly ve es .
ly , ny of he gh - el es ed by he ve el ay be nt or ng he ed ns , en gh ey re nt or ng he ut ta .
er , is is a ce th ng if on is ap nd me of he gh - el es re ry od or ng en he es of st .
he in ty of ur rk is to ow at we an ve ly er ne on ce by re - ng a ti - er al rk , ne er at a me , as a ve el of he ow of ch ts .
is re - ng es it er to ze ep al ks at ve ny rs of en ts nd it so ws
ny re rs to be ed re ng rs .
he ve re - ng es ny rs of re rs at me ly re ex .
a se - nt se of ve ne - ng , ng he rd on hm , en ly ts he es in ry er to ke em re ul or on .
he ig ge of is ew ay of ng ti - er al ks is at he ed nt of on in he ls is ot ed to gn es om ch .
it is ly ed to ge he es er so ly in er to st he ss es .
he es es re ed by ng a ti - er ve el of he ch er on in he ow of ch ts , nd is es ot re ed ta .
ur ch es wo or ns ut
re of he ip en he ut ta , ch in is se is a ow of ch ts , nd he ls , ch re mm es ed by a ed nt ng a re - ng sr el .
st , we me at he on we nt to rm is re ly ed to he ng es of he ta an to he al ts of he ta lf .
nd , we me at a od re - or on of he ng es an be ed om he ut ta by ng ts er - er al re .
it is sy to am up al ks in ch ur wo ns re ly ng , ut a ly ve ne ng ch , ch as a rt or ne th a al el , ld ll rk ry ll .
se , or le , at he el ed to a ow of ch ts is ly he ty of wo ar ts of he ed ta .
ur ch ld st ly il se is on is ly to be ed in he gh - el es nd , en if it is ed , it ll be in a ch re ex rm an he le rm it ad in he ta .
ur im is at , se of he ly ed ay in ch ch is ed , is al sk is ly at sr is ot ke , nd ne ng ds at do ot ke se of he ge ce en se wo ks ve no ng rm re in sr .
ng a er ve el
re re wo ry nt ys to nd ur ap - ch to ng a ti - er ve el of a ow of ch ts .
in he ed ew , we t a er at as ly ny rs of nt es , ut es ht ng ng he er rs to ep he er of rs er ol .
in he ed , gy - ed ew , we t a ly le pe of ng le at ly as ne er of nt es , ut en we at he es of he nt es as ta nd t he me pe of le in to is ew ta .
is an be ed as ny es as we ke to rn as ny rs of nt es as we re .
he ed ew
it is le or a ly ed em to ce er es of he or ty io of wo es an he io of he es of ng he ta om a re of wo , ss - ic , ve ls if se ls nd ir ng ns re ct .
he le ng le ed in he ed ew is ed a ed nn ne ( bm ) .
it is a bi - te ph in ch le ts at nt ns
ed , hl nd on : ic ng ng ep ef ks
re ed to en ts at rn to nt es ng ed ed ns .
an bm is ed in he se at re re no le - le or en - en ns .
in he st pe of bm , he ry bm , th he en nd le ts re ry nd ic .
to al th al - ed ut ta , we se a an - li bm in ch he en ts re ry ut he ut ts re ar th an se .
we ll in he an - li bm er er st ng he er ry
in a ry bm , he ts on he ns nd he es of he al ts ne a ty on er he nt es of he le nd en ts ia an gy on .
he gy of a nt on is :
e ( v , h| ) =
re = ( w , b , a ) nd ij ts he ic on rm en le it i nd en it j le bi nd aj re ir as ms .
v nd h re he rs of le nd en ts .
he ty at an bm ns to a le or v
p ( v| ) = ph ee ( v , h ) pu ph ee ( u , h )
ce re re no en - en ns , he al on p ( |v , ) is al nd is en by :
p ( hj = |v , ) = ( aj +
re ( x ) = ( 23 + ex ) no le - le ns , p ( |h , ) is al nd is en by :
ly , ce re re he al on
p ( vi = |h , ) = ( bi +
ct um od ng is le in a ge bm se it is ly ve to te he ve of he og ty of he ng ta .
er - ss , ms ve an nt te ng ce - re ed ve ce ( 23 ) ch es em le as ng ks or ng ns .
we ly te ch ht , ij , ng he ce en wo ed , se ns :
ij ta on
he st rm on he hs of eq .
23 is he ed cy th ch le it i nd en it j re on er en he le rs re es om he ng et nd he es of he en ts re ed by eq .
he nd rm is he ed cy th ch i nd j re th on en he le rs re ns of he ta rs nd he es of he en ts re ed by ng eq .
23 to he ns .
ns re ed by ng eq .
23 to he en es at re
ed om he ta en ng he st rm on he hs of eq
he ve ce ng le es ot ow he um od nt .
ng hy it ks at ll is ch er ng he ed ew , so we er he on to he xt on .
er ng he ts in an bm le , we se he es of he en ts , en en by al ta , as he ta or ng er le of he me nd .
is ss an be ed to rn as ny rs of es as we re .
in , ng hy is dy ch ks is ch er ng he ed ew .
or an - li 23 he gy of a nt on -
e ( v , h| ) =
ce re re no le - le ns , he al on p ( |h , ) is al nd is en by :
p ( |h , ) = n
re n ( , v ) is a an th an nd ce v .
rt om se es , he ce nd ng es or a an - li bm re he me as or a ry bm , gh he ng te ds to be er .
he ed ew
in he ed ew , it is sy to ay at we do , ut rd to fy it .
in he ve ed ew , he ng hm is re ed to in , ut ch er to
a ti - er id ef et ed of ic ry ts .
er a id ef et ( 23 ) at ts of le rs of ry ic ts as wn in re 23
he er en rs nt ry es nd he ot - om , le , er ts a ry ta or ( we ll
to ep he on le , we me at he an se el of ll he le ts is ed at 23
we so ze he ut ta to ve a ed ce of 23 or ch nt er he le ng et .
ed to ee ns .
on io , ch , nd ge ng
23 ) ng th ed ts : er a id ef et th an te er of rs nd th ed ic ts en rs as wn in re 23
in is et , he or in he st en er is al : he en ts re nt en he es of he le ts .
is rs se he ns ed by he or ng om ll of he rs ve ly el he ti - ns in he od rm ng om he er ow ( 23 ) .
er , he al or an be ed by ly ng he le or by he ed ht ix nd en ng he ic on to ch nt :
j |v , w ) = ( b ( 23 )
ce at is le on es he ed ct of he or nd he od ms , ot he od rm , ch is ly re ed .
ow ow to le al - ed ta er ) .
ng ta om he el is sy .
st , ry es re en or he op er of en ts ng ir es to ne he og ds of ng 23 or 23
en he ry es of he ts in er k , ry es re en in el or ll of he ts in er k 23 by ng he ic id 23 to he al ut ed om on ( x ) = ( 23 + ex ) he er ve us he ts wn as :
|h ( k ) , w ( k ) ) = ( b ( 23 )
re h ( k ) is he or of ry es or er k nd h ( k ) is ts th nt .
w ( k ) is he ix of ts om er k to er k 23 , w ( k ) he as of it j in er k .
he or of es of he le ts , v , is so ed h ( 23 ) .
is an nt of at ix , nd b ( k )
ow er he em of ng he ts on he op - wn ns so at he el is re ly to en - te he ry ng ta on ts le ts .
ng nt nt in he ed og ty of ng he ng ta is ry le if we an et ed es of he en es om ir or on en an ed ta or :
re he le ts te an on er he ng ta .
if we nt to re at ry ht te es he og ty of he ta , we ed to se a ry ll ng te nd we ed to ge er ny es om he or .
in ce , it is ch re nt to se a er ng te on ll ni - es of he ta .
ly , ng ed es om he en - ly ge or rs to be le or ll ut he st ls . 23 er , or le , he or in he st en er .
is or is he ed ct of a ed , on - al or ed by he rs ve nd a ed on - al od rm ed by he ed es of he le ts .
en ng ta om he el , he ts in he st en er re , by on , ly nt en he es of he ts in he er ve .
en ng he or , er , ey re ot ly nt en he es of he ts in he er ow , en th a rm or , ue to he on of ng ay ( 23 ) .
te es om he or an be ed by ng a ow ov in te lo od ( 23 ) or a st ut de on ( 23 ) .
re is , er , ne ry al rm of id ef et in ch ng om he or on in ry en er is st as sy as ng ta om he el .
in ct , ce nd on re he me ss , ut ng in te
in is ct , re ls ar to be ar or .
he ct or er he re ts is sy to te se it ly as as ny ms as he er of ts .
is al ty , er , es at a le ce : he le ta or st be ed by a le nt .
as we ll ee er , it is le to ve an ly le or st ng le us es .
an te id ef et th ed ts .
te rs st ve he me er of ts .
he ed ts ke ce ch er in is et an in a al id ef et .
ce he or as en ed or he st en er , ly he me ss an be ed or he xt en er .
so ce is ly sy in is al nd of rk .
ng is a le re lt se ry py of he ed ht ix ts nt es .
er , we ow in ce at he ed es ll be ro or ry gh el rs .
is is se he om - up ce ss is ly a ov in at ly es to ts ry on in he er rs .
en it is ng om ts ry on , he nt ts re ct or ng he es , so , on ge , re is no ve .
en he ts nd es re ll , is ov in es ly nd we an te
ed , hl nd on : ic ng ng ep ef ks
nt nt in he og od te ll by st ng he es or he st wo rs ( 23 ) .
he ed ts an at he ss of ng h ( 23 ) om h ( 23 ) is he me as he ss of ng v om h ( 23 ) .
ly , h ( 23 ) an be ed as a sy ut ed te of he es or he le ts ed by h ( 23 ) .
ly h ( 23 ) an be ed as a sy te of he es or he ts in he st en er ed by h ( 23 ) .
we an se se wo ts nd on 23 to et an ed te of he um of he es or he st wo rs of ts .
is es he ng ng le ch is wn as ve ce ( 23 ) :
j ( vi h ( 23 ) j i hh ( 23 )
) + h ( 23 )
re he le ts te ns er he ng ta ( or a ve ni - ch ) .
as he ts nd es ow , it es se to dd he es or re rs ( 23 ) nd or ng ly od ve ls is is al ( 23 ) .
or he se of ng le re rs , er , en a er ly ed ve el is od gh , nd he ng le in on 23 is nt en en he ts et te ge .
he te um od es ed by is ng le me ly ed , ut ey re ap to te nd ey so ve ry ow ce ( 23 ) ch is nt or ng a gh ng te en he es re ed om ll ni - es of ta .
se es re ed er in
23 ) ng nt ts in ch er : ow at we ve nt ce nd ng es or an te id ef et th ed ts , he xt ep is to ke he ve el re ul by ng nt ts in nt rs .
st , we rn th ll of he ht es ed er .
en we ie he om ht ix om he er es nd ze he es of ts ts .
is en ix is ow ed w ( 23 ) .
en , ng ll he ng es ed er , we ue to rn he er es , ng he ed te or h ( 23 ) in st he me ay as we ly ed v .
is es st ng h ( 23 ) om v by ng ( w ( 23 ) ) t nd en ng h ( 23 ) , h ( 23 ) , nd h ( 23 ) in a ar om - up er ng w or w t .
he ce or he er en rs es ed es en h ( 23 ) , ut he le ce od no er es an ly ed le or h ( 23 ) se he er ht es re no er al to w ( 23 ) so ey no er te a or at ly ls he ns in he od rm .
er , he or or h ( 23 ) is ll ly al nd it an be ed at if we ue to er h ( 23 ) as if he er es ad ot ed , en ng es a al er nd on he og ty of he ng ta ( 23 ) 23
he of es at ch er of ts is ed by ng he um od ve , er an ng he ve ce
we an at he ss of ng nd ng he st py of he ly ed ht es as ny es as we ke , so we an rn as ny rs of es as we re .
en we ve ed k rs of es , we re ft th a ed ve el ed a ep ef et ( bn ) at as k nt ht es en he er rs nd an te er of er rs at ll se he k th ht ix or ts se .
we en ly ow ay ll rs ve he k th nd dd a al ax er of el ts ng mm es .
we so on he ic on at as ed to fy he ve ng , nd we at he le em as a rd , ic al rk .
is rk is en ly ne - ed by ng on to ze he og ty of he ct mm 23
or he ax al er , he ty of el l en he al - ed ns of he al er of es ( ch we ll h ( k ) en gh ey re no er ry ed es ) is ed to be
xp ( bl + pi h ( k ) pm xp ( bm + pi h ( k )
re bl is he as of he el nd il is he ht om en it i in er k to el l .
he ve ng st rn he ts om he st er of es to he el ts , ut it es ot ed to te ny ew re rs .
it ly ne - es ng re rs at re ed by he ed re - ng .
to el al es in he le er , we ly ce he ry it by ar ts th an se at as a ce of 23
is es ot ge p ( h ( 23 ) |v ) nd he on or le it i en h ( 23 ) is a an th it ce nd an i en by :
i = b ( 23 )
is pe of ve re - ng ed by mi - ve ne - ng as en ed ly or nd - en er on ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ty on ( 23 ) , 23 - d ct on ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ng ad ps om ed al es ( 23 ) , on al ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) nd ne on ( 23 ) .
as we ll ee , it is so ry od or ne on .
ng ep ef ts or ne on in er to ly ns th ed ut nd ut en - ty to ne on , we se a xt ow of n ve es of ch ts to et he es of he le ts of he st er of he bn .
ce it as en re - ed as a ve el , he ng rd al rk is ly ed to ut a ty on er he le ls of he al me .
to te ne es , he ce of ed
in a nt se of he ct gy , we es se bn to er to a rd al rk at as ed ng a ly ed ep ef et , en gh he rd al rk is ly ry nt om a ef et .
ed to ee ns .
on io , ch , nd ge ng
ty ns er he le ls or ch me is ed to a rd bi er .
ly ng , ce he mm ts a or er es , we ld de ut he or om he or on er mm es ed by he bn , gh or ur ar sk it de no ce .
al up
it us
ne on ts re ed on he it us . 23 we ed he 23 er ng et nd re - ed ll sa ds ( i . e . , al es or ll rs in he se ) ce ey ld as he ts .
a te nt et of 23 rs as ed or ng ll of he ta rs , ch as he er of rs nd he ze of ch er .
ts re ed ng he 23 - er re st et , ch es he nt et .
he ch as ed ng a 23 - ms ng ow th a 23 - ms ed me te .
in st of he ts , we ed he ch ng th - er el cy al ts ( cs ) nd gy , ng th ir st nd nd al es .
or me ts , we ed a er - rm - ed er - nk th 23 ts ed on a el - le ( nd gy ) er th ir st nd nd al es .
he ta re ed so at , ed er he ng es , ch nt or st ve or nd ve ad ro an nd it ce .
we ed 23 et ss ls ( i . e . , 23 es or ch ne of he 23 es ) .
er ng , he 23 ne es re ed to a et of 23 es as in ( 23 ) or ng .
ll of ur ts ed a am ge el er es , ed om he
al up
ng ns of he es ed in is er is te om - ly ve .
ng as ed by ng cs rs , in ar us in a ia la 23 em , ng he at ry ( 23 ) .
a le ss er he re ng et ( an ch ) or a el th 23 en rs nd 23 ts er er ok ut 23 es ng re - ng of he st er nd ut 23 es ng ne - ng he le rk th on .
a le pu ns at 23 es er an a le 23 hz
or ll ts , we ed he rs or he bi er .
ly , we ed a ro rd on il - ty nd a ge el le or of 23 .
ll ns re re - ed th a ed pe ng ic nt nt th a ni - ch ze of 23 ng es .
or an - ry ms , we an 23 hs th a ed ng te of 23 le or ry - ry ms we ed 23 hs th a ng te of 23 .
he ry ed to fy he re - ng hm as - es at en he es of he le ts re ed om he ed ry es in he st en er , ey re ed ly .
to ce se in he ng , we ly ed em ly nd ed he al es ( ee ( 23 ) or re ls ) .
or ne - ng , we ed ic nt nt th he me ni - ch ze as in re - ng .
he ng te ed at 23 .
at he nd of ch ch , if he on or on he nt et ed , he ts re ed to ir es at he ng of he ch nd he ng te as ed .
is ed il he ng te ll ow
ng th re - ng nd ne - ng , a ll ht - st of 23 as ed nd he ng as ed by ng a um of 23 ( pt or he st ch of ne - ng ch id ot se um ) .
( 23 ) es a ed on of ht - st nd um nd le ys to et em .
re 23 nd re 23 ow he ct of ng he ze of ch en er nd he er of en rs .
or ty we ed he me ze or ry en er in a rk .
or se ns , he er of ut es as ed at 23
er of rs
ne or te on he nt et as a on of he er of rs nd ze of ch er , ng 23 ut es .
he in nd le in es 23 nd 23 is at ng re en rs es er ce , gh he in es as he er of rs es .
ng re en ts er er so es ce en he er of en rs is ss an 23 , ut th re en rs he er of ts as le ct ed it is at st 23
he ge of ng a ep re is ar if we er he st ay to se a al of 23 en ts : it is er to se wo rs of 23 or ur rs of 23 an ne er of 23
to et om ng ny en rs , it is ry to do ve re - ng .
th a le en er of 23 ts , ve re - ng es a ne or te of 3% nd ly he me ne - ng hm ed om
ed , hl nd on : ic ng ng ep ef ks
er of rs
er of rs
ne or te on he re st et as a on of he er of rs nd ze of ch er , ng 23 ut es .
ne or te on he re st et as a on of he er of en rs ng ly ed nd ed ks .
ll om ts es 3% .
so ve re - ng es ot lp .
ng a nd en er es a er al se in he er of le rs an ng a rd en er se he ut nd ut rs re ch er an he en rs nd se nt en rs re ly ed .
is ge se in ty es he el ar re le , ut it so es it rt ar re ly .
re 23 nd re 23 ow at or ks at re ot re - ed ( ut ll se ly ng ) , se wo ts ly el ut , as or re - ed ks re is ss ng so ra rs lp .
gh he ge of re - ng is ot as ge as or me er ks ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , it is ll ed to in an ge om ng ra en rs .
he nt et is ed ng 23 , 23 , or 23 es nd is is ue er he er of en rs .
ch er ( 23 es ) nd ch er ( 23 es ) ws ve ly se ce .
he ge om ms to ms rs he ge ze of es or es .
er ut ws ss nt ve on in he xt , le ks th er ws re ly ng ed by he st om he er of he ow .
he ap ( 23 ) re ly es 23 nd ng ws , ut it es te ks to el nt ts of he um ch es he ng sk .
er ws ld ly rk er ng ne ts ch de he rk th re on ut he xt nd ke he al es re nt .
er of rs
er of rs
ne or te on he nt et as a on of he er of en rs ng ly ed nd ed ks .
ne or te on he nt et as a on of he er of rs , ng 23 en ts er er .
ng he er of en ts er er to 23 nd ng he er of es in he ut ow ( es 23 nd 23 nd so 23 nd 23 ) ws at he st ce on
ce ll ut he ut er ts re re - ed , it ld be ul to ce a ck at he st er
ed to ee ns .
on io , ch , nd ge ng
er of rs
er of rs
ne or te on he re st et as a on of he er of rs , ng 23 en ts er er .
xt ow of er nk ts as ut es to he bn .
ne or es as a on of he er of rs , ng a
of he bn to at ng by ng he er of ts at re ot re - ed .
a ck er ed by a ax is ly nt to ng a ed ut de or ch ss nd en ng he ss es al to he ed ed ce en he de or a ss nd he ty rn in he ck er ( 23 ) .
re 23 ws at ng a ck er es ot ly ve er or a al rk th 23 en rs of 23 ts nd an ut ow of 23 es of
he ct of he ze of he ck on he ne or te or a al rk th 23 ut es nd 23 en rs of 23 ts er er ( pt or he st en er ) .
in ll of he us ts cs re ed as he ut on .
cs pt to ce he ty of he ut by ng ns at re nt or on nd on - ng he er th a st - ed ut on at to ke on sy .
th a re ul ng re , er on ce an be ed
by ng a ss re - ed ut on ng of a ge er of er - nk ts ed th al es nd es of es .
re 23 ws at a bn is le of ng od se of he re ed on le in is er ut on .
or he bn em at ed st on he nt et , he ne or te on he it re st et as 3% .
ed ts on it re st et
ic al ls ( 23 )
al om ld ( 23 )
ge - in mm ( 23 )
ed al om ds ( 23 )
nt al ts ( 23 )
an ne mm ( 23 )
ne ms ( 23 )
us rs ( 23 )
ne ms ly ed w / mi ( 23 ) ne ep ef ks ( ns ) ( is rk )
le i es he st ng bn el th
ly ed ts on he it re st et 23
ns nd re rk
so ar as we ow , he rk ed in is er as he st on to ic ng of al ks in ch le rs of es re ly re - ed .
ce en , ur ch as en ed to ly el he ce re of he ut es ( 23 ) .
it as en so ed to ly in he ic nd ge ls ng he ll ce er an a al ow of es
in ( 23 ) a er of 3% is ed on he te st et of it .
he ch ts ed re ot he me as he rd it ns nd ir od ld ry ly ve a se lt ng he rd
ed , hl nd on : ic ng ng ep ef ks
it as en so ed to a ge ry sk ( 23 ) re he ng mm ch es a ry ge er of ts .
in is er sk it es a ry ge ge ve to he mm .
we re ly ng es ut ns at ow ep al ks to ee re of he nt on in he nd - ve , ch as ry se ci - es of et es in nt cy ds .
we re so ng ys of ng nt al ks to ly se he nt of ed on ut he st at an be ed rd to lp in he on of he
we nk im ss , hn le , li ng nd ld nn or ul ns nd wo us rs or ng he er .
he ch as ed by a ft om ft ch nd by ts om he al es nd ng ch il of da nd he an te or ed ch .
