we ow ow to se ry rs to te he ng ay ts at ke in ly - ed ef ts at ve ny en rs .
ng om - ry rs , we ve a st , dy go - hm at an rn ep , ed ef ks ne er at a me , ed he op wo ay - rs rm an ed ve ry .
he st , dy hm is ed to ze a er ng re at ne - es he ts us - ng a ve on of he ke - ep go - hm .
er ne - ng , a rk th ee en rs ms a ry od ve el of he nt on of en it im - es nd ir ls .
is ve el es er it on an he st mi - ve ng ms .
he ow - al ds on ch he ts ie re ed by ng es in he ee - gy pe of he op - el ve ry nd it is sy to ex - re se es by ng he ed ec - ns to ay at he ve ry as
ng is lt in ly - ed , ed ef ts at ve ny en rs se it is lt to er he al on of he en es en en a ta or .
al ds se le ns to he ue al on , ut he ns ay be or , ly at he st en er re he or es ce .
so , al ng ll es ll of he rs to be ed er nd es he ng me le ly as he er of am -
we be a el in ch he op wo en rs rm an ed ve ry ( ee re 23 ) nd he
( id : 23 ) to ar in al on 23
ng en rs rm a ed ic ph at ts he ns in he ve ry to le es ch as he ls of an ge .
is hy - id el as me ve es :
re is a st , dy ng hm at an nd a ly od et of rs ly , en in ep ks th ns of rs nd ny en
he ng hm is ed ut an be ap - ed to ed ta by ng a el at es th he el nd he ta .
re is a ne - ng hm at ns an el - nt ve el ch ms na - ve ds on he st se of nd - en
he ve el es it sy to et he is -
ed ns in he ep en rs .
he ce ed or ng a pt is th st
he ng hm is al :
ts to a se th nd ly on he es of he re - ic nd st - ic on .
he on is le : ns ly ed to
te ir ic ry es .
on 23 es he ea of a ry or ch ly ls he ng ay on at es ce lt in ed ls .
an am - le of a ed ef rk th ry rs is ed .
on 23 ws he ce en re - ed nn es nd te ed ks th ed ts .
on 23 es a st , dy ng hm or ng ti - er ed ks ne er at a me .
ng a al nd it ws at as ch ew er is ed , he ll ve el es .
he dy hm rs me ce to ng in ts ed se of he me ak er , ut ad of re - ng ch ta - or to re at he xt ep ns ng ew , it re - ts it .
he ak er at
23 op - el ts
23 el ts
is ld be he op el of
23 x 23
re 23 : he rk ed to el he nt on of it es nd it ls .
in is er , ch ng se ts of an ge nd an it ss el , ut rk in ss as wn at he me ng hm an be ed if he ls re ed by a er ay se ts re ms om le nt ak - rs ng ed ts .
he rk en ns to te rs at st of an ge nd a am of he me
is ed to ct ep ed ts is lf an ed
on 23 ws ow he ts ed by he st dy hm an be ne - ed ng he up - wn al - hm .
is is a ve on of he ke - ep al - hm on et al .
( 23 ) at es ot er om he de - ng ms at an se he ke - ep al - hm to rn or on ts .
on 23 ws he rn on ce of a rk th ee en rs nd ut 23 on ts on he st et of en ts .
en no ge of ry is ed nd re is no al ng , he on ce of he rk is 3% rs on he 3; 23 it al st et .
is ts he 3% ed by he st ck - on ts en ey re ot nd - ed or is ar on .
it is so ly er an he 3% rs ed by te nd pf ( 23 ) or rt or es on he
ly , on 23 ws at ns in he nd of he rk en it is ng ut ng ed by vi - al ut .
he rk as a ll ve el , so it is sy to ok to ts nd we ly te an ge om ts gh - el ns .
ut he er , we ll er ts ed of
re 23 : a le ic ef et ng wo de - nt , re es at me ly ti - ed en we ve he se ng .
he as of ( id : 23 ) 23 on he th - ke de ns at , in he ce of ny on , is de is 23 es re ly to be ff an on .
if he th - ke de is on nd he ck de is ff , he mp de as a al ut of 23 ch ns at it as an en ce of ng on .
is is a ch er on of he on at he se ed an he ds of e ( id : 23 ) 23 ch ly if er of he en es is ve .
ut it is ul to rn on th en es to in he on se he ty of em th ng is e ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) e ( id : 23 ) 23 = e ( id : 23 ) 23
en he ke de is ed on it ns ay he ce or he ck de .
ic ry es ut he as an be ed to er ls in ch he og ty of a le is an ve on of he es of ts ly - ed gh - rs ( ee ix a or ls ) .
23 ry rs
he on of ng ay ( ed in re 23 ) es ce lt in ed ef ts .
in ly ed ks , he or on er he id - en es is le pt in a ew al es ch as re ls or ar ls th ve an se .
ov in te lo ds ( al , 23 ) an be ed to le om he or , ut ey re ly ry me ng .
al ds ( al nd on , 23 ) te he ue or th a re le on nd ey an be ed to ve a er nd on he og ty of he ng ta .
it is ng at ng is ed to ve a al nd en en he ce of he en es is ne ly , ut it ld be ch er to nd a ay of ng ex - ng ay er , en in ls se en ri - es ve ly ed ts on he le es .
it is ly ed at is is le .
a ic ef et ( al , 23 ) is ed of as - ic ry ts .
en he et is ed to te ta , he
ty of ng on it i is a ic on of he es of ts te rs , j , nd of he ts , ij , on he ed ns om he rs :
p ( si = 23 ) =
23 + xp ( ( id : 23 ) bi ( id : 23 ) pj ij )
re bi is he as of it i .
if a ic ef et ly as ne en er , he or on er he en es is al se ir ry es re en ly en he el is ed to te ta .
he on - ce in he or on is ed by he od rm ng om he ta .
ps we ld te ng ay in he st en er by ng ra en rs to te a ry or at as ly he te ns to se in he li - od rm .
en , en he od rm is ed by he or , we ll et a or at is ly al .
it is ot at ll us at ry rs st , ut re 23 ws a le le of an te ic ef et th ed ts in ch he rs re ry at ry en er ( ee ix a or a re al nt of he ns er ch ry rs st ) .
he se of ed ts to ct ry rs ay em ke a re ck or ng ed ls va - nt to ed es .
as we ll ee , er , it ds to a el nd ry nt ng hm at ks by ly ng he ts in ch er om he ts in er rs .
23 an te ed el th ed ts
we an te ta om he te ed et in g - re 23 by ng th a om on at an ly ep en 23 nd en ng a op - wn es - al ss in ch he ry te of ch le in a er is en om he li on ed by he op - wn ut ng om ts ve ts in he er ve .
in is ct , it is st ke ny er ed ic ef et .
ke er ed ts , er , we an am - le om he ue or on er ll of he en rs by ng th a ta or on he le ts nd en ng he ed ht es to er he ac - al ns er ch en er in rn .
at ch en er we le om he al or re ng he al or or he er 23
ap - ix a ws at is re es ed es se he ry or at ch er es at he or on ly is al .
ce we an le om he ue or , we an om - te he es of he og ty of he ta
he on ss es to he ry on of he ov in , so we ed to rt at a er at is ep ed th he me it es or he in to ch um .
is is ly he me as he ce re ed in he ke - ep hm ( on et al . , 23 ) or he ls ed in is er no al on is ed se he ce re es ed es .
us rt by ng he ve or a ve ht , ij , om a it j in er 23 to it i in er 23 ( ee re 23 ) .
in a ic ef et , he um od ng le or a le ta - or , 23 , is :
@ og p ( 23 )
i ( id : 23 ) 23
re < ( id : 23 ) > es an ge er he ed es nd i is he ty at it i ld be ed on if he si - le or as ly ed om he ed en es .
ng he or on er he nd en er , 23 , om he ed ry es in he st en er , 23 , is ly he me ss as on - ng he ta , so 23 i is a le om a li om le th ty 23 i .
he ng le an re be en as :
@ og p ( 23 )
i ( id : 23 ) 23
i on 23
j is ic in he va - he ce of 23 on of eq .
23 om eq .
23 se 23 i is an on at is al on 23 j .
ce he ts re ed , he ll ve or a ve ht is ed by ng he es of he ve ts en ll rs of ay -
@ og p ( 23 )
i ( id : 23 ) 23
j ( id : 23 ) 23
i ( id : 23 ) 23
ll of he ly ed ms el ng he tz -
nn ne ng le of eq
23 ed nn es nd
ve ce ng
it ay ot be ly us at he te ed et in re 23 is nt to a ed nn ma - ne ( bm ) .
an bm as a le er of en ts ch re ot ed to ch er nd ve ed , al ns to a er of le ts .
to en - te ta om an bm , we an rt th a om te in ne of he rs nd en rm ng bs am - ng : ll of he ts in ne er re ed in el en he nt es of he ts in he er er nd is is ed il he em is ng om ts um on .
ce at is is ly he me ss as ng ta om he te ef et th ed ts .
to rm um od ng in an bm , we an se he ce en wo ns .
or ch ht , ij , en a le it i nd a en it , j we re j > en a or is ed on he on < 23
re 23 : an te ic ef et th ed ts .
he rd ws nt he ve el .
he up - rd ws re ot rt of he el .
ey nt he rs at re ed to er es om he or on at ch en er of he et en a or is ed on 23
he le ts nd he en es re ed om ir al on , ch is al .
en , ng al - ng bs ng , we un he ov in wn in re 23 il it es ts ry on nd re he on 23 j > .
he nt of he og ty of he ng ta is en
@ og p ( 23 )
j> ( id : 23 ) 23
is ng le is he me as he um od ng le or he te ic ef et th ed ts , nd ch ep of bs ng ds to ng he ct or on in a er of he te ic ef et .
ng he og ty of he ta is ly he me as ng he ck - er ce , ( id : 23 ) ) , en he on of he ta , p 23 , nd kl ( p jp 23 he um on ed by he el , p 23 ve ce ng ( on , 23 ) , we ly un he ov in or n ll 23 re ng he ec - nd on .
is is nt to ng he es ch ll ep ts of ng h en v en ng v
t = 23 t = 23
t = ty
t = ty
re 23 : is ts a ov in at es ng bs ng .
in ne ll ep of bs ng , he id - en ts in he op er re ll ed in el by ly - ng eq .
23 to he ts ed om he he nt es of he le ts in he om er , en he le ts re ll ed in el en he nt en es .
he in is ed by ng he ry es of he le ts to be he me as a ta - or .
he ns in he es of a le nd a en it re ed er he st te of he en ts nd in at he nd of he in .
he ce of se wo ns es he ng al or ng he ht on he on .
at me om he er rs of he te et .
he um of ll se ed es is he ve of he og ty of he or on in er vn , ch is so he ve of he ck - er ce be - en he or on in er vn , p n ( id : 23 ) , nd he ui - um on ed by he el .
so ve di - ce ng es he ce of wo ck -
kl ( p jp 23
( id : 23 ) ) ( id : 23 ) kl ( p n
( id : 23 ) jp 23
ng ng se , is ce is er ve se bs ng is ed to ce p n ( id : 23 ) om p 23 nd bs ng ys es he ck - er er - ce th he um on .
it is nt to no - ( id : 23 ) ds on he nt el rs nd ce at p n ( id : 23 ) es as he rs ge is he ay in ch p n ng ed by ve ce ng .
is ob - em es ot se th p 23 se he ng ta es ot nd on he rs .
an al on of he ip en he um od nd he on - ve ce ng es an be nd in ra - an nd on ( 23 ) .
ve ce ng in a ed nn ne is nt gh to be al ( az nd in - on , 23 ) .
ns at se al - ed ts nd er - nt ng es re ed in eh et al .
( 23 ) nd ve en te ul or ng he on of to - ic ps ( ng et al . , 23 ) , or ng al es ( th nd ck , 23 ) or es of al ls ( ng et al . , 23 ) .
ks nd an ( 23 ) be a ay of ng ve ce to rm or ly - is nd ng et al .
( 23 ) ow at a rk th ic , ry le ts nd ar , an en ts an be ed or id nt al .
er , it rs at
he cy as en ht at a gh ce : en ed in he us ay , ve ce ng ls or ep , er ks th nt ts at ch er se se ks ke ar oo ng en to ch di - al um th a ed ta - or .
we ow ow at he ce en ms nd te ed ts th ed ts ts an nt ng hm or er ks in ch he ts re ot ed .
23 a dy ng hm or
an nt ay to rn a ed el is to ne a et of er ls at re ed ly .
to ce ch el in he ce to rn ng nt om he us ls , he ta is ed in me ay er ch el as en ed .
in ng ( nd , 23 ) , ch el in he ce is ed on re - ed ta at es he es at he ng ls ot ng .
in ne on of al ts is , he ce in a ed on is ed us ng he xt ed on to ie in he al ce ( er , 23 ) .
in on it ( an nd le , 23 ) , he ta is ed by ly ng ne on in he ta - ce to ve ll on - ty in at on .
he ea nd ur dy hm is to ow ch el in he ce to ve a nt on of he ta .
he el ms a on - ar on on ts ut rs nd es as ut he rs at ll be ed as ut or he xt el in he ce .
re 23 ws a er ve el in ch he op wo rs ct ia ed ns nd ll of he er ns re ed .
he ed ec - ns at he op re nt to ng ly ny er rs th ed ts .
re re no ra - er ns nd , to fy he is , ll rs ve he me er of ts .
it is le to rn le ( gh ot al ) es or he rs 23 by ng at he me - rs en er rs ll be ed to ct a le - ry or or 23
is is nt to ng at ll of he ht es re ed to be al .
he sk of ng 23 er is on es to he sk of ng an bm nd gh is is ll lt , od ap - te ns an be nd ly by ng on - ve ce .
ce 23 as en ed , he ta an be ed gh wt 23 to te er - el ta at he st en er .
if he bm is a ct el of he al ta , he er - el ta ll dy be ed ly by he er - el ht es .
ly , er , he bm ll ot be le to el he al ta ly nd we an ke he ve el er ng he ng
rn 23 ng ll he ht es re ed .
ze 23 nd it es to ng wt
23 to er
re 23 : a id rk .
he op wo rs ve di - ed ns nd rm an ve ry .
he ay - rs ow ve ed , op - wn , ve ns at an be ed to ap a te of he ve ry to an ge .
re re so ed , om - up , on ns at re ed to er a al on in ne er om he ry es in he er ow .
in he dy al ng he on ns re ed to he ve ns .
al te or ns er he es of he es in he st en er , en if nt es in er el ts an at is ce od is no er ct .
ng ll he er ht es ed to ch er , ut ed om 23 , rn an bm el of he er - el ta at as ed by ng wt rm he al ta .
if is dy hm es he er - el ht es , it is ed to ve he ve el .
as wn in ( al nd on , 23 ) , he ve og ob - ty of a le ta - or , 23 , er he er en - ve el is ed by a al ee gy ch is he ed gy er he ng on , q ( 23 ) , us he py of at on .
or a di - ed el , he gy of he on 3; 23 is
e ( 3; 23 ) = ( id : 23 ) ( id : 23 ) og p ( 23 ) + og p ( 23 ) ( id : 23 )
so he nd is : og p ( 23 ) ( id : 23 ) x
q ( 23 ) ( id : 23 ) og p ( 23 ) + og p ( 23 ) ( id : 23 )
q ( 23 ) og q ( 23 )
re 23 is a ry on of he ts in he st id - en er , p ( 23 ) is he or ty of 23 er he ur - nt el ( ch is ed by he ts ve 23 ) nd q ( ( id : 23 ) 23 ) is ny ty on er he ry on - ns in he st en er .
he nd es an ty if nd ly if q ( ( id : 23 ) 23 ) is he ue or bu -
en ll of he ht es re ed er , he ac - 23 to a al on er 23 ed by ng wt ta - or is he ue or on , so at ep 23 of he dy hm og p ( 23 ) is al to he nd .
ep 23 es th q ( ( id : 23 ) 23 ) nd p ( 23 ) nd th se ms ed , he ve of he nd is he me as he ve
q ( 23 ) og p ( 23 )
so ng he nd w . r . t .
he ts in he er ay - rs is ly nt to ng he og ty of a et in ch 23 rs th ty q ( 23 ) .
if he nd es er , it is le or og p ( 23 ) to ll en gh he er nd on it es , ut og p ( 23 ) an er ll ow ts ue at ep 23 of he dy go - hm se he nd is ht at is nt nd he nd
he dy hm an ly be ed ly , so if we se he ll um od nn ne ng hm to rn ch et of ed ts nd en we ie he om er of he et om he ts ve , we an rn he ts ne er at a me th a ar - 23 at we ll er se he og ty of he ta er he ll ve el .
in ce , we ce um od nn ne ng hm by ve ce ng se it ks ll nd is ch er .
he se of ve ce ds he ee , ut it is ll ng to ow at ra rs re ed to ve ct ls if we rn ch er th nt ce .
to ee at he ve el is ed by ly ng re rs , it is nt to er ls in ch ll rs re he me ze so at he er - el ts an be ed to he es ed re ey re ed om he ts in he er ow .
he me dy hm , er , an be ed en en he ay - rs re nt es .
23 ck - ng th he up - wn hm
ng he ht es ne er at a me is nt ut ot al .
ce he ts in er rs ve en ed , er he ts or he le ce ce - re re al or he er rs .
he ub - ty ro - ed by dy ng is ly us or er - ed ds ke ng .
ls re en ce nd ch
he ee is on he ed ge in he og ty .
el ay ly de a ew ts of nt on he me - rs , so er - ng is ly re of a em an er - ng .
ng ck nd ng he er ls ay , re - re , se re rm an od .
ed ds , er , an se ry ge ed ts nd ch se ay be ry gh - al us ng ny ts of nt on a ve el .
er - ng is en a se - us em ch an be ed by a nt ge of ck - ng in ch he ts at re ed st re ed to t in er th he ts at re ed er .
er ly ng od al es or he ts in ry er , we ie he on ts at re ed or ce om he ve ts at de - ne he el , ut in he on at he or in ch er st be ed by a al on in ch he es in a er re ly en - nt en he es of he es in he er ow .
a nt of he ke - ep hm ed in on et al .
( 23 ) an en be ed to ow he er - el ts to ce he er el es .
in he up - ss , he og - on ts re ed in a om - up ss at ti - ly ks a te or ry en le .
he ve ts on he ed ns re en ed ng he um od ng le in eq .
he ts on he ed ns at he op el re ed as re by ng he op - el bm to he or bu - on of he te er .
he wn - ss ts th a te of he op - el so - ve ry nd es he op - wn ve ns to ly te ch er er in rn .
ng he wn - ss , he op - el ed ns nd he ve ed ns re ot ed .
ly he om - up on ts re ed .
is is va - nt to he ep se of he ke - ep hm if he as - ve ry is ed to le to ts um ri - on re ng he wn - ss .
ut if he ve ry is ed by an up - ss nd en ly ed to un or a ew ns of ng bs ng re ng he wn - ss , is is a ve rm of he ke - ep hm ch es he ed to le om he um on of he ve ry .
he ve rm so es al er ms of he ep se .
it es at he on ts re ng ed or ns at le se ed or al ta nd it so ps to te he em of de er - ng .
if , en a ar ta or , he nt ni - on ts ys ck a ar de at he el ve nd re er ry nt es at re ly od at ng he ta , he ng in he wn - ss ll ot ry to er se on ts to er ny of he er es as it ld if he ep se ed a re al ss .
a re al ss ld ve to rt by ng ro - ed bs ng to et an um le om he op - el ve ry .
by ng a op - el ia -
se ts re no er ed to he ts ve em , i st be ed ng he es of he es in he er ve i nd he ve ts om se es to i .
re 23 : ll 23 es in ch he rk ed ht ut ad a nd ss se ty as in 23 : 23 of he ty of he st ss .
he ue es re ed in rd an er .
ve ry we so te a em in he ke se : nt op - el ts em to be ed to ow an al ss , ut ey an at he al ma - on is ry or or he op er of ts .
ix b es he ls of he up - wn hm ng ab - le do - de or he rk wn in g - re 23
or ty , re is no ty on he ts , no um , nd he me ng te or ll rs .
so , he ng ta is ed to a le se .
23 ce on he st se
23 ng he rk
he st se of en ts ns 23 , 23 ng es nd 23 , 23 st es .
ts or ny nt rn on es re dy ed or is ly le se so it is al or ng ew rn on ds .
or he ic on of he st ng sk , no ge of ry is ro - ed nd re is no al re - ng or nt of he ng et , so an wn ut ed om ta - on of he ls ld ot ct he ng hm .
or is on - nt on of he sk , he al - on ce of ur rk as 3% rs on he al st et .
he 23 wn in re 23 as ed on 23 , 23 of he ng es at re ed to 23 ed ni - es ch ng 23 es of ch it ss .
he ts re ed er ch ni - ch .
ry ts th 23 ( id : 23 ) 23 es of en ts om he ps se ed at a od ay to el he nt on of it es nd ir ls as to se an re of is pe , ut or 23 ( id : 23 ) 23 es , ly 23 as ny ts re ed in ch en er .
re 23 : he 23 st es at he rk ot ng .
ch se is ed by he ks ss .
he ue es re ed in rd an er .
in he al se of ng , he dy hm de - ed in on 23 as ed to in ch er of ts ly , ng at he om .
ch er as ed or 23 ps gh he ng et ( ed hs ) .
ur - ng ng , he ts in he le er of ch bm ad al - ed es en 23 nd 23
se re he or - ed el es en ng he om er of ts .
or ng er rs of ts , he al - ed es of he le ts in he bm re he on es of he en ts in he er - el bm .
he en er of ch bm ed ic ry es en at bm as ng ed .
he dy ng ok a ew rs er er in ab on a hz on or nd en it as ne , he or - te on he st et as 3% ( ee ow or ls of ow he rk is ed ) .
en ng he op er of ts ( he es in he ve ry ) he ls re ed as rt of he ut .
he ls re ed by ng on ne it in a ax up of 23 ts .
en he es in is up re ed om he es in he er ve , ex - ly ne it as ed to be ve nd he ty of
ng it i as en by :
re xi is he al ut ed by it i .
ly , he ng es re ed by he on en ts in a ax up , so he es do ot ed to ow ch it is ng th ch er it .
he ti - on ts he ty of a it ng on , ut it is ly is ty at ts he ng .
er he dy er - by - er ng , he rk as ed , th a nt ng te nd ht - ay , or 23 hs ng he up - wn hm ed in on 23
he ng te , um , nd ht - 23 re en by ng he rk al es nd ng ts ce on a te on et of 23 , 23 im - es at re en om he er of he ll ng et .
or he st 23 hs of he up - wn hm , he up - ss as ed by ee ll ns of ng bs ng in he ve ry re rm - ng he wn - ss .
or he nd 23 hs , ix ns re ed , nd or he st 23 hs , en ns re ed .
ch me he er of ns of bs ng as ed , he or on he on et ed
he rk at ed st on he on et as en ed nd ad an or te of 3% .
is rk as en ed on ll 23 , 23 ng 23 il ts or - te on he ll ng et as as ow as ts al or - te ad en on he al ng et of 23 , 23 es .
is ok a er 23 hs ng he al ng me ut a ek .
he al rk ad an or - te of 23
he rs de by he rk re wn in re 23
he 23 es at he rk ts ct ut or ch he nd st ty is in 23 of he st ty re wn in re 23
