al ic ge ls ( ms ) ve en wn to be ti - ve th nd ly or to he ly - ed n - am ge ls .
he in ck of ms is ir ly ng ng nd ng es .
in nd io ve ed a al ge el lt nd a ry ee of ds , ch as wo rs of de er an he on - al el it as ed on .
er , it ed ly se an ts on - al rt in te of ng a rd ee ed ng rt ge .
we ce a st al ge el ng th a le re - ed hm or ic on of rd es om he ta .
we en ow at he ng ls an rm on - al al ls as ll as he st n - am ls .
al ge ng is ed th ng ic ls of rd es .
ch ls an be ed to te le es om le es , a sk nt or ng ch on , on al , nd ne on .
he st ty of al ge ls re ed on he ov on , ch es at he bu - on of a rd ds ly on me ed er of ds at ly de it .
le is on is ly se , it is ry nt se it es he em of ng he ty on of rd es of ry th to he em of ng he on on he xt rd en me ed er of ng ds , ed he xt .
we ll te is on by p ( 23 : 23 ) , re wn is he xt rd nd 23 : 23 is he xt ( 23 , . . . , 23 ) .
n - am ge ls re he st ar al ge ls ue to ir ty nd ly od ce .
se ls re ly al ty es or p ( 23 : 23 ) , ed by ng he n - es in he ng ta nd ng he ts ly .
ce he er of n - es is al in n , ng he aw ts is al or ng od ce .
re is a ge er of ng ds le or n - am ls ( 23 ) .
in te of he ed ng ds ed or em , n - am ls re le to ke ge of ge ts ce he ta ty em es me .
he in on or is or is he ct at al n - am ls re ly al ty es re nt es re ed ly of ch er .
se ls do ot ke ge of he ct at ar ds ur in ar ts , se ey ve no pt of ty .
ss - ed n - am ls ( 23 ) im to ss is ue by ng ds nd / or ts to es ed on ir ge ns nd en ng is ss on to ve on .
le it an ve n - am ce , is ch es a ry id nd of ty , ce ch rd ly gs to ly ne ss .
an ve nd ch re le ch to ng he ta ty em is to nt ch rd ng a al - ed re or at es ts es , so at ds
ed in ar ts ll ve ar re rs .
en he al ty of he xt rd an be ed as a th on of he re rs of he xt ds nd he xt rd .
is ch es ic ng , ce or a en xt ar ds re ow ed to be ed ar es .
ly , ar ts re ow ly to ve ar ns ng in ar ns or he xt rd .
st ls ed on is ch se a ed - rd al rk to ap he re rs of he xt ds to he on or he xt rd ( e . g .
( 23 ) , ( 23 ) , ( 23 ) ) .
ps he st wn el of is pe is he al ic ge el ( 23 ) , ch as en wn to rm n - am ls on a et of ut ne on ds .
23 he al al rk ge el
he in ck of he lm nd er ar ls is at ey re ry ow to in nd st ( 23 ) .
ce ng he ty of he xt rd es ly ng er ll ds in he ry , he st of ng he ty of he en xt rd nd he st of ng he ll on er he xt rd re ly he me ey ke me ar in he ry ze .
ce ng he ct nt in ch ls es ly ng he ty of he xt rd en ts xt nd ng he el rs to se at ty , ng me is so ar in he ry ze .
al al ge ts ve es ng ns of ds of ds , ch ns at ng lm - ke ls he rd ay is ly oo ly ve in ce .
ne ay to ed up he ss is to se a ed ce ng re to te he ts ed or ng ( 23 ) .
er , le is od an ed up ng ly , ng ns ly ve .
he al lm ed in ( 23 ) , es an al on in me ty of ng nd ng as ed to he lm .
it es is on by ng he uc - ed ry of he lm by a ry ee at ts a al ng of ds in he ry .
ch rd ds to a af in he ee nd an be ly ed by he th om he ot to at af .
if n is he er of ds in he ry nd he ee is al - ed , ny rd an be ed by a ce of o ( og n ) ry ns ng ch of he wo en of he nt de is to be ed xt .
is up es ne n - ay ce by a ce of o ( og n ) ry es .
in ic ms , ne n - ay on is ed by a ce of o ( og n ) al ( ry ) ns .
as a lt , a on er ds in he ry an be ed by ng he ty of ng he ft ld at ch of he es .
in he al lm , se al es re ed by ng a on of he lm he re rs or he xt ds as ll as a re or or he nt de as ts .
he ty of he xt rd is en en by he ty of ng a ce of ry ns at ds to he th to at rd .
en ed to a et of ut ne on ds , is el ed ss - ed ms , ut ed ly se an he lm ( 23 ) .
he al el er as re an wo rs of de er an he lm .
he in on of is rk as he re ed to ct he ee of ds or he el .
he ee as ed by ng th he et is - a my nd ng it to a ry ee gh a on of al nd ta - en ng .
ur al is to ce is re by an ed od or ng es om he ng ta ut ng rt ge of ny nd .
we ll so re he ce ts of ng es re ch rd an ur re an ce .
23 he og - ar el
we ll se he og - ar ge el ( bl ) ( 23 ) as he on of ur al el se of ts nt ce nd ty .
ke ly ll al ge ls , he bl el ts ch rd th a al - ed re or .
we ll te he re or or rd w by rw nd er to he ix ng ll se re rs as r .
to ct he xt rd wn en he xt 23 : 23 , he el es he ed re or r or he xt rd by ly ng he xt rd re rs :
re ci is he ht ix ed th he xt on i .
en he ty en he ed re or nd he re or or ch rd in he ry is ed ng he er ct .
he es re en ed nd ed to in he on er he xt rd :
p ( wn = 23 : 23 ) =
xp ( rt rw + bw ) pj xp ( rt rj + bj )
re bw is he as or rd w , ch is ed to re he xt - nt rd cy .
te at he bl el an be ed as a al nd of a ed - rd al rk th ne ar en er nd a ax ut er .
he ts to he rk re he re rs or he xt ds , le he ix of ts om he en er to he ut er is ly he re or ix r .
he or of es of he en ts ds to he he ed re or or he xt rd .
ke he lm , he bl el ds to te he en es ly ce er on nd as no es in ts en er .
in te of ts ty he bl el ms ry ll , ng th he lm nd he n - am ls on a ly ge et ( 23 ) .
23 he al og - ar el
ur al ge el is ed on he al el om ( 23 ) .
he ng es of ur el re he se of he og - ar ge el or ng he es at ch de nd he ty to le le es of ch rd in he ee .
te at he ea of ng le rd es in a ee as ed in ( 23 ) , ut it as ot ed .
he st nt of he al og - ar el ( bl ) is a ry ee th ds at ts es .
or ow , we ll me at ch rd in he ry is at ly ne af .
en ch rd an be ly ed by a th om he ot of he ee to he af de he rd is at .
he th lf an be ed as a ry ng d of ns de at ch de , so at di = 23 ds to he on to it he ft ld of he nt de .
or le , he ng 23 ds to a th at ts at he ot , ts ts ft ld , nd en ts he ht ld of at ld .
is ws ch rd to be ed by a ry ng ch we ll ll a de .
he nd nt of he bl el is he ic el or ng he ns at ch de , ch in ur se is a ed on of he bl el .
in he bl el , st ke in ts on - al rt , xt ds re ed ng al - ed re rs .
ch of he on - af es in he ee so as a re or ed th it at is ed or ng he ds in he ft ee rm he ds in he ht ee of he de .
ke he xt ds , he ds ng ed re ed ng ir ry es at re ed by he rd ee .
er , is on is ll te le , ce ch ry it in he de es a on de at a de , ch ds on at es re or .
in he bl el , he ty of he xt rd ng w is he ty of ng he es of ry ns ed by he ds de , en he xt .
ce he ty of ng a on at a de ds ly on he ed re or , ed by he xt , nd he re or or at de , we an ss he ty of he xt rd as a ct of es of he ry ns :
p ( wn = 23 : 23 ) = y
p ( qi , 23 : 23 ) ,
re di is th it in he de or rd w , nd qi is he re or or he th de in he th ng to at de .
he ty of ch on is en by
re ( x ) is he ic on nd r is he ed re or ed ng eq .
bi in he on is he es as at es he xt - nt cy to it he ft ld en ng is de .
p ( di = qi , 23 : 23 ) = ( rt qi + bi ) ,
he on of p ( wn = 23 : 23 ) an be ed to le es er rd by ng a on er ll es or w as ws :
p ( wn = 23 : 23 ) = x
p ( qi , 23 : 23 ) ,
re d ( w ) is a et of es ng to rd w .
ng le es er rd an ow er on of ds at ve le es or le ge ns .
ng le es er rd so es it sy to ne al te ds es to to a le ne to to ct he ct at no le hy an ss ll he ps en ds .
ng he bl el ad of he lm or ng he al es ws us to id ng he es in he en er ch es ur al el er at ak - ng ns an he al lm .
re ly , he al lm ds to te he en es ce or ch of he o ( og n ) ns , le he bl el es he ed re or st ce er on .
er , he me ty of ng he ty or a le ry on in an bl el is ll ic in he re or ty d , ch ht ke he se of gh - al re rs oo ly ve .
we ke he me ty ar in d by ng he ht es ci to be al . 23 te at or a xt of ze 23 , is on es ot ce he al er of he el se he xt ht ix 23 an be ed to he rd re rs .
nd le is on es es he ls th er ts ly ss ul , we ve at is ss is re an ed or by ch er ng es ch ow ng re ex es .
bl ls an be ed by ng he ( ed ) og - od .
ce he ty of he xt rd ds ly on he xt ts , he re rs of he xt ds , nd he re rs of he es on he hs om he ot to he es ng he rd in on , ly a ( ly ) ll on of he rs ed to be ed or ch ng se .
23 al ng of ds
he st ep in ng a al ge el is ng a ry ee of ds or he el to se .
is an be ne by ng rt ge , ta - en ds , or a on of he wo .
or le , in ( 23 ) he ee as ed om he is - a my ag om et ( 23 ) .
er ng he my by nd to re at ch de ad ly ne nt , ta - en al ry ng as ed on he en of he es in he my at ad re an wo en , ng in a ry ee .
we re ed in ng a re ng ch le in ns re he rt wl - ge is le .
it is so ot ar at ng rt ge , en en it is le , ll ad to or ce .
al ry ng of ds ed on he ir ge cs is a al ce or ng ry es of ds ly .
is sk is ar to he sk of ng ds to es or ng ss - ed n - am ls , or ch a ge er of ms as en ed .
we ed al of se ms re id - ng to se ur wn hm ch ed ut to be ly ve in te of ts ty .
er , we ll on wo ng ms at ht be le or ng ry rd es .
ce we ed an hm at ed ll to ge es , we ed ur on to he op - wn al ng ms , as ey nd to le er an ir ve ts ( 23 ) .
he hm om ( 23 ) es ly he nd of ry es we ed , pt at ts me ty is ic in he ry ze . 23 we so ed he al ng hm ( 23 ) ut ed ot to se it se of he es ed in ng ts of re an ne rd or ng .
is em is ed by st n - am ng ms , so we ll be it in me il .
ce we ld ke to er ds or sy on of he xt rd ed on ts xt , it is al to be ch rd in ms of he ts at an de it .
or le , or a le - rd xt ne ch on is he
of xt ts or on i nd es he se ct of wo rs .
us he re or or he xt rd an ow be ed as r = 23 re ly , he me ty of he hm is ic in he er of he nt ds , ut at
is ll to ow or ur es .
ci wi , re ci is a or
on of ds at de he rd of st in he ng ta .
he em es nt en we er ng er ts : he er of ts at an ly re - de a rd ws ly in he xt ze .
is is he ry me ta ty em at ts he n - am ls , ch is ot ng , ce we re ng to be ds in ms of ly ge ( ed ) nt rs .
us , ng ds ed on ch ge - xt ns es on - al ue to he al st ed as ll as he al es ed by he ty of he ta .
we id se es by ng on ow - al al - ed rd ns in ur ee - ng re .
ce we ed to in a el to in rd re rs , we rm he ng ng re : we te a om ry ee of ds , in an bl el ed on it , nd se he ed ns it ns to nt ds en ng he rd ee .
ce ch rd is ed by a on er ts it rs in , we ed a ay of ng ch a on of ts wn to a ow - al or .
er ng he bl el , we ze ch xt 23 : 23 th he ed re or ed om it ng eq .
en , we se he on of ts at de a en rd to a re or by ng he on of he ed on w . r . t .
at on .
us , or he es of ng ch rd is ed by ts ge ed re or .
er ng he ow - al al - ed re rs or ds , we ly ly a ry le ng hm to em .
at ch ep , we t a re of wo ns to he re rs nd en on em to wo ts ed on he es of he wo re ts or em .
we en on ch of he ts ng he me re , nd so on .
he on ps en he nt et ns ly wo ds .
we t he es by ng he em hm or 23 23
he hm es th he ns nd he al es of he ts .
ce he ns of he ts re ed ed on a om ng of he re rs , he hm is ot ic nd ll ce at nt gs on nt ns .
ne ng ty of is hm is at he ng me of ch on is ar in he ry ze , ch is a ce of ng ds ng re rs of ed ty .
in ur ts , he hm ok ly a ew es to ld a hy or a ry of ly 23 ds ed on 23 - al
he al of an hm or ng es or al ge ls is to ce es at re ll - ed by he ta nd re ly ll - ed so at he ng ls ze ll nd re st to in nd st .
to re he de - ff en se wo re - ts , we ed al ng es in ur ee - ng hm .
he es re ed on he on at he ty of a nt or a nt an be ed as a re of on - ce ut he nt of he nt to he nt .
us , en he es of th ts or a nt re se to 23 , we ot be re at he nt ld be in ne nt ut ot he er .
ur st le ms to ce a ed ee at ny st .
it ts he es nd ts he ds to wo nt ts of al ze ed on he ed er .
he nd le es ts ll - ed by he ta en if at ts in an ed ee .
it es at by ng he rd to he nt th he er ty or he rd .
he rd nd he st ed le is an on of he nd le , ed to gn a nt to th ts er th es re in of 23 , or me re - ed .
is le is ed to ce le es or ds at re lt to er .
we ll er to he ms at se se es as ed , ve , nd ve ( ) ly .
ly , as a ne or on th he ve ms , we ll se an hm at es om ed es .
it ts th a om on of he ds nd ly ds he ft ee ed ne he st lf of he ds nd he ht ee ed on he nd lf of he ds .
we ll ll is hm om .
ng em or re an 23 ps id ot ke a nt ce in he ty of he ng
le 23 : es of ds ed by he re - ed hm .
he an de th is he um of hs of es ed th a rd , ed er he on of he ds in he ng ta .
he un - me ty of he al el is ar in he an de th of he ee ed .
he an er of es er rd rs to he er of es er rd ed er he ng ta on .
ce ch on - af de in a ee as ts wn re or , he er of ee rs ed th he ee is ar in is ty .
an de an er of es er rd
le 23 : he ct of he re ty nd he rd ee ed on he st et ty of
a om ee
a on - om ee
23 al ts
we ed he ce of ur ls on he ws et ng he ed ss ws es om 23 nd 23
he et ts of a 23 on rd ng et , a 23 on rd on et , nd 23 on rd st et .
he ry ze or is et is 23
we se is et se it ad dy en ed to re he ce of al ls to at of n - am ls in ( 23 ) nd ( 23 ) , ch ed us to re ur ts to he ts in se rs .
pt or re ed se , he ls ed or he ts ed 23 al re rs nd a xt ze of 23
he ls of he ng re we ed re en in he ix .
ll ls re ed ed on ir ty re on he st et .
we ed by ng a el at ed a ee ed by he om hm ( ee 23 in le 23 ) .
he re rs ed by is el re ed to ld a ee ng he ed hm ( ee 23 ) .
we en ed ls of us re or ty on ch of se es to ee er a ly ve el an te or ng a ly ed ee .
he st es or he ng ls re en in le 23
as an be en om he es , ng a on - om ee ts in ch er el ce .
gh he ap in ce an be ed by ng he ty of re rs , ng a on - om ee ti - ly es ce en or he el th 23 - al re rs .
it ld be ed er , at ls at se he om ee re ot ly ss .
or le , ey rm he am el ch ed he ty of 23 by a ry ge in .
is ts at he bl re is ly le to ke ve se of a om ee
ce ng he re ty nd 23 id ot lt in a al on in ty , we ed 23 - al re rs or ll of ur ls in he ng ri - ts .
xt we ed he ct of he ee ng hm on he ce of he ng bl el .
to do at , we ed he om , ed , nd ve ms to te ne ee ch .
he ve ( ) hm as ed to te wo es : ne th et
le 23 : st et ty ts or he al bl ls .
ll he ed ls in he on ed 23 - al re rs nd a xt ze of 23
bl is he on - al og - ar el .
nn is a er - ey n - am el .
he es or bl , 23 , nd 23 re om ( 23 ) .
he ng or bl is ed on ur on of he el .
to 23 nd he er th et to 23 .
we en ed a 23 te ee by ng he ve ( = 23 ) hm ce nd ng a ee th a ot de at ad he wo ed es as ts es .
ce he ve ( ) hm es me on we ed to ve he el ce by ng he el to se ly en wo le gs .
ly , we ed a 23 te ng he me ch .
le 23 ts he ed es as ll as me cs or em .
te at es ed ng ve ( ) ng > 23 lt in ls th re rs ue to he er er of ee - es nd us ee - de re rs , as ed to es ed ng ds ng ne de / af
le 23 ws he st et es nd me er ch or he ng ls ng th he es or ls om ( 23 ) .
he ts ow at he ce of he bl ls ed on on - om es is le to at of he n - am ls .
as ed , ng rd es ly es el ce .
he al nd at es is at er es nd to ad to er ng ls .
or le , a el ed on a le ee ed ng he ve ( 23 ) hm , ms as ll as he 23 - am ut ot as ll as he on - al bl el .
er , ng a 23 te ee ed ng he me hm ts in a el at ms th he n - am ls nd he bl el , nd ng a 23 te ee ds to a er on in ty .
he me - er - ch cs ed or he al ls in le 23 ws he at ed ge of he bl ls er he bl el .
ed , he st of ur bl ls is er 23 es er an he bl el .
23 on nd re rk
we ve ed at a al al ge el an ly rm ts on - al ts nd ve te - of - he - rt ce .
he ey to ng a al el rm ll is ng a ly ed hy er ds .
we ve ed a le nd st re - ed hm or ic on of ch es .
ng es in ch ry rd ed re an ce as al to ng he ls to
an on of es ed by ur ve hm ed at he ds th he st rs of es ( i . e .
he rd at re ed he st ) re ot he ds th le ct es .
ad , he hm ed to te he ds at ed ly in - ly in he ta nd re re lt to er .
he re to se le es or ds th al ry nt es is ly a ce of ng he on er ts th a le an re or en ng ds .
he se ty of xt ns ld be er ed by ng a ll et of re rs nd by ng he ts .
ly , ce ur ee ng hm is ed on he re rs ed by he el , it is le to ly pt ng of ch a el to ld he rd ee ed on he re rs ed by he el ng ed .
is ed ng re ht ce er ls by ng he rd hy to pt to he ic nt of he el nd ce sa .
ix : ls of he ng re
he ls ve en ed by ng he og - od ng ic nt nt .
ll el rs er an he es re ed by ng om a an of ll ce .
he es or he ee es re ed so at he on ed by he el th ll he on - as rs et to ro ed he se es of he ds in he ng et .
ls re ed ng he ng te of 23 il he ty on he on et ed to se .
en he ng te as ed to 23 23 nd ng as ed il he on ty ed ng in .
ll el rs re ed ng a ll
we nk in er or is ts on a ft of is er .
is ch as ed by rc nd fi .
eh is a ow of he an te or ed ch .
