we se a on - ar ve el or an on ta at es an ed el th ry nt es nd al - ed le es at nt nt es .
he nt nd le es at ch me ep re - ve ed ns om he le es at he st ew me - ps .
ch an re es on - ne ce nt nd ws us to se a im - le te ng re .
er ng , he el ds a le et of rs at ly re al nt ds of on .
we te he er of ur ch by ng us on es nd by ng on - ne ng in of ta st ng on re .
nt es in on re gy ve ed st in he is nd is of ex an on or on nd ng .
ls ed on he cs of es nd gs ve ed me ve ts by ng ed gy - ed ng ds ( 23 ) to te al rs om on re ta ( 23 ) .
ut if we nt to te ic an on , we ed to el ll he es of he al cs nd is is so lt to do ly at ng is ly to be al .
he st ay to te ew on es ed on ta is to te ts of ng es ( 23 ) .
er od is to rm on in he ng ta to ew es by ng to ng ts le or er cs ( 23 , 23 , 23 ) .
in is er we us on el en is nd is ut id he es ed in ng cs - ed ts , ng ad on a re ng ch in ch ll he ge in he el es om he ta .
ta om rn on re ms is gh - al nd ns ex on - ar ps en he ts of he on or , ch ly nt nt es th ct to me al re .
en ov ls ot el ch ta ly se ey ly on a le , te k - te al to nt he ry of he me es .
to el n ts of on ut he st ry ey re 3n en es .
to id is al on , we ed a el th ed ( i . e .
al ) en te at as a al ty ch is ar in he er of ts .
ar al ms fy is nt , ut ey ot el he ex on - ar cs ed by he on - ar es of es , ct es of he ot on he nd nd ad er rs .
23 an gy - ed el or rs of al - es
in al , ng ed ry ns or en te in ed ls of me es es ce lt .
if , er , we se a ed nn ne ( bm ) to el he ty on of he on or at ch me me , he or er nt es es ly , ng ce sy .
ly , ms se ry ic ts or th he le ta nd en es , ut in ur on he ta ( ed of nt es ) is us .
we us se a ed bm in ch he le ts re ar , al - ed es at ve an se ( 23 , 23 ) .
he al el as a er of le ts v nd a er of en ts h; re re ed ns en rs ut no ns in a er .
or ny ng of he en ts , he on of ch le it is ed by a ic og od on at es me es ry le : 23
og p ( v , h ) = x
ij + st ,
re i is he rd on of he an se or le it i .
( in ce , we le ur ta to ve ro an nd it ce .
we ve nd at ng i at 23 es he ng rk ll en gh we ld ct a od el to ct he ta th ch er on ) .
he in ge of ng is ed , gy - ed el er an a ed ef et is at ce is ry sy se he en ts me ly nt en he es of he le ts re ed .
he al ns ( ng i = 23 ) re :
p ( hj = |v ) = f ( bj + x
p ( |h ) = n ( ci + x
ij , 23 ) ,
re f ( ) is he ic on , n ( , v ) is a an , bj nd ci re he es of en it j nd le it i ly , nd ij is he ic ht en em .
um od ng is ow in an bm ut ng ll ks ll if we ly ow he nt of er on ed he ve ce ( 23 ) .
he ng le is :
ij ta on ,
re he st on ( er en it ns ) is th ct to he ta on nd he nd on is th ct to he on of ed ta .
he ns re ed by ng a ov in at he ta on , ng ll he en ts in el by ng ( eq .
23 ) nd en ng ll he le ts in el by ng ( eq .
or th ns , he es of he en ts re al on he es of he le ts , ot ce sa .
he ng le or he en es is st a ed on of eq
bj hj ta on .
23 he al bm el
he bm we ve ed ve ls ic es of ta , ut es ot te ny em - al on .
we an el al es by ng he le es in he us me ce as al ed ts ( 23 ) .
ly , is es ot te ce .
we dd wo es of ed ns ( re 23 ) : ve ns om he st n ns ( me ps ) of he le ts to he nt le on , nd ns om he st m es to he nt en on .
he on of se ed on - ns ns he bm to a al bm ( bm ) .
in ur ts , we ve en n = m = 23
se re , er , le rs nd ed ot be he me or th es of ed ns .
to fy on , we ll me n = m nd er to n as he er of
or ny ng of he rs , he nt of he ic og od ll ys lm he nt ue to he ed ut om he ry en ts ed he ue vi of a le it is ar gh om ts as , ci .
re 23 : in a ed el , es of ch re ng on al on he ta at he le ts .
wn is a 23 - en it el , nd a ce ch ns ( in er ) ng , ng / ng ( ee es ) , ng , ng , nd ng .
ws nt es , ns nt al es .
ce in he bm is no re lt an in he rd bm .
en he ta at me t , t 23 , .
, t n , he en ts at me t re ly nt .
we an ll se ve ce or ng he bm .
he ly ge is at en we te he le nd en ts , we nt he ed on - ns by ng ta om us me ps as a ly ng as .
he ve ce ng le or en es is en in eq .
23 nd he nt ng le or he em - al ns at ne he ly ng en it es is :
is he og - ar er ( ht ) ng le it i at me t q to en it j or q = 23 . n .
ly , he ng le or he ve ns at ne he ly ng le it es is :
i on ( id : 23 ) .
is he ht om le it k at me t q to le
he ve ts an el rt - rm al re ry ll , ng he en ts to el er - rm , er el re .
ng ng , he es of he en ts re er - ed by th he ut ey ve om he ed ta nd he ut ey ve om he us me es .
he ng le or w ns he me as a rd bm , ut as a nt ef - ct se he es of he en ts re ow ed by he us le ts .
we do ot pt to el he st n es of ch ce .
t - 23 t - 23 t
re 23 : re of ur el ( in ur ri - ts , we se ee us
le ng a el of on , we do ot ed to ed ly gh he ng ta es .
he es re ly al on he st n me ps , ot he re ce .
as ng as we te ks of es ( he ze ng on he er of he ed ns ) , se an be ed nd ed to ni - es .
to ed up he ng , we le se ks of es to ed ni - es of ze 23
we ly gn ks to nt ni - es so at he ks in ch ni - ch re as ed as le .
to ve er ry , me es re ot ly ed in ni - s; we ly se ng to te he ng of es .
ur ng re es on al ns , st of ch re en ed on ex - ce ng ar ks .
le ng he bm , we ed vi in eq .
23 nd eq .
23 by ts ed ue nd we so ed he ed ue of vi en ng he ty of on of he en ts .
er , to te he ne - ep ns of he ta , we ed ly en ry es of he en ts .
is ts he en es om ng an ed nt of on om he ta to he on ( 23 ) .
le ng he ed le - to - en ns ( eq .
23 ) nd he ic ed ns ( eq .
23 ) we ed he ly en ry es of he en ts in he st rm ( er he ta ) , ut ed hj by ts ed ue in he nd rm ( er he uc - on ) .
we ok is ch se he on of he ta ds on he ry es de en ng en te .
us en we er he ns om he ed ta , he es re ly ed th he ry en es ed om he ta .
on he er nd , we op er ne on , so he ry ce of ns om he on nt te th ny er ms , nd re is no nt ng is ra se .
ly , we te at he ne - ng re as a le is ng a de on in on to he ne de by ve ce .
he ce ep , al on st le es , is te se it es he re ( it es ot do ng ) .
se of he ed ns , ct ce in he el ld de th a rd nd rd ss gh ch ce ( we ly rm ly a rd ss ) .
we ve ed a rd ss se ng es te ms in ed ls , so it is rd to rm ng ly ng he ll or .
ed th an mm , he ck of ng is a ss , ut is is re an et by he al in in al er .
23 ta ng nd ng
we ed ta om he mu cs ab on re se as ll as om ( 23 ) ( ee ts ) .
he ed ta ts of 3d nt es ed om 23 ( mu ) or 23 ( it ) rs us a ot ( yx , ar he se of he ck ) on nd nt .
or th ts , he al ta as ed at z; we ve ed it to hz .
ix of he nt le ns in he al mu ta ad nt es , so ey re im - ed .
ch of he ng nt es ad en ne nd ee es of om .
ll of he nt es nd he ot on re ed om er es to he al ap on ( 23 ) .
is as ne to id al ck nd es .
( he it ta as dy ed in al ap rm nd id ot ed to be ed . )
we ed he ot ly se it es a on th ct to a ed al te em .
in er to ct cs , we ed ur al on to be nt to nd - ne on nd to on ut he al al .
we ed ch nd - ne on by an al ds or nd an al ys or ve to he on he on as ly ng , ut we ed ht on - ly by he ce ve he nd ne .
we ed on nd he al al by he al ge , ut we ed he er wo al es of om by he te ch nd ll ve to he on he on as ly ng .
he al ty of ur ta rs as 23 ( or he mu ta ) nd 23 ( or he it ta ) .
te at we ed al ap ns at re nt ro ( ng to ts th a le ee of om ) .
as ed in ec .
23 , ch nt of he ta as ed to ve ro an nd it ce .
ne ge of ur el is he ct at he ta es ot ed to be ly ed or ty ed .
nd nd nn ( 23 ) ly ca to ce se nd ty .
he ve ns in ur el an be ht of as ng a nd of ng of he ta .
un et al .
( 23 ) ly nt ta to es nd le at ar me ls ng on al on .
ty on es ic en a er ge of ns is to be ed .
er ng ur el ng he es ed ve , we an te in al ys at it as ed ut he re of an on .
ps he st ct on , ch ts he ct at it is a ty ty el of es , is to se he el to te de - vo a er of ic on es .
eo es of se es re il - le on he te ed in he t; se ns ve ot en ed by nd in ny on ng re .
te at we so do ot ve to ep a ir of ng ta es nd or on - we ly ed he ts of he el nd a ew id es or
al on om a ed el an be ne on - ne th no ng , st ke he ng re .
he le ts at he st ew me ps ne he ve es of he le nd en ts at he nt me ep .
we ys ep he us le es ed nd rm ng bs ng to in a nt le om he al bm .
is ks ew en nd le es at re le th ch er nd th he nt ( le ) ry .
on es on th n me ps of he le ts , ch ly ne he de of on in ch he ic ce ll rt .
we ed ly wn ve es om he ng ta as an al on .
23 on of ng nd ng es om a le el
in ur st on , we in a le el on ta ng th ng nd ng s; we en se he ed el to te th es of on , ng on ow it is ed .
we 23 on 23 es of ng nd 23 es of ng ( om ct 23 in he mu se ) .
er ng to hz , he ng ta ed of 23 es .
re 23 : er ng , he me el an te ng ( op ) nd ng ( om ) on ( ee os on he te ) .
ch le - on is 23 es rt .
re 23 ws a ng ce nd a ng ce ed by he me el , ng al - ng bs ng ( th he ty of en ts ng on al on he nt nd us ee le rs ) .
ce he ng ta es ot in ny ns en ng nd ng ( nd ce - sa ) , he el ll ue to te ng or ng mo - ns ng on re it is ed .
23 ng ns en us es
in ur nd on , we ow at ur el is le of ng ot ly al mo - us on es ut so he ns en em , en he ng ta lf ns
3a 23 en - it bm as ed or 23 es gh he ng ta , ng a rd - er el ( or ed ns ) .
ht es re de er ch ni - ch of ze 23
he er of he es as ly ed ch at ng nd ng es re ed ut he
es of ch ns .
we ed on 23 es ( om he it se , le 23 m ) on - ng ng es of ng nd ng , as ll as a ew ns en he wo es .
er ng to hz , is ed us th 23 es .
ng as ne as re , ex - pt at er he el as ed , an al 23 en - it el as ed on op of he st el ( ee ec .
he ng wo - el el as ed to te ta .
a eo le on he te es ur ls ty to ly on en us on es ng a le ed ce .
23 ng ns ng se
in ur rd on , we ow ow ns en on es an be ed en en ch ns re nt in he ta .
we se he me el nd ta as ed in ec .
23 , re we ve ed on te es of ng nd ng .
to te , we se he me ng re as re , pt at at ch me we ly se he en es ( en he nt nd us ee le rs ) we dd a ll nt of an se to he en te es .
is es he el to re re of he en te ce ut ng oo ar he nt on .
ng is sy ng ch , we ee at he ed on ly ns en ed es .
se ns ar al ( ee he eo on he te ) .
23 ng in ng ta
ue to he re of he on re ss , ch an be ly ed by ng nd al ts , as ll as se ng ng , on re ta en ns ng or le ta .
me rs ay ar ( ut ) or ng ds of me ue to en - or re or on .
he ty of on ng re es in on ds to ll in ng ta , ut is es he ta ly th .
se ds so ly on he ng nd nd ts of he ng ta , so if a er es ng il he nd of a ce , ve on ll ot rk .
ch ds en ly se he st nd re ta om he le ng er to ll in at rs ng es , ut ce nt es re ly ed , al on ut he nt of ne er ld be ed om he rs .
ur ed el as he ty to ly ll in ch ng ta , ss of re he ts ur in a ce .
ue to ts te ce od ch es ot ly on a rd ss gh he ce , it so as he ty to ll in ch ng ta on - ne .
ng in ng ta th ur el is ry ar to on .
we ly mp he wn ta to he le ts , ze he ng ta to ng le ( or le , he ue at he us me ) , nd te en ly ng he en nd le ts , th he wn le es ld ed .
to te ng in , we ed a el ly as ed in ec .
23 pt at ne ng nd ne ng ce re ft ut of he ng ta to be ed as st ta .
or ch of se ng nd ng st es , we ed wo nt ts of nt es , ng ay gh he st ce .
se ts re he ts in ( 23 ) he ft eg , nd ( 23 ) he re er dy .
as en in he eo es on he te , he ty of he ed - in ta is nt nd is ly le om he al nd th of he st ce .
re 23 es he ls ty to ct he ee es of on of he ft ip .
or he ng ce ( of th 23 es ) , we ed ur ls ce to st or on , a le od re or ch me , he es on wn ns re ed to ch le in he ng et to nd he st ch ( ed by an is - ce in he ed le ce ) .
he wn ns re en ed in ng he ed le .
as on om ur el is ic , we ed he nt 23 es nd rt he an .
or he ng eg , an ed on or er nt ng ur el as 23 , ed in ed nt le ce , nd ed er he 23 es of st .
ng st or on , he or as er : 23 .
or he ng er dy , an ed on or er nt ng ur el as 23 .
ng st or on , in he or as er : 23 .
re 23 : he el ly ls in ng ta ng ly he us es of he nt es ( gh he al ns ) nd he nt es of er ts ( gh he bm ns ) .
wn re wo of he ee es of on or he ft ip nt ( he ot of he rd is ar to he st ) .
he al ta is wn on a id ne , he ls on is wn on a ed ne , nd he ts of st or on re wn on a ed ne ( ee a eo on he te ) .
23 er el ls
ce we ve ed he el , we an dd rs ke in a ep ef rk ( 23 ) .
he us er bm is pt , nd he ce of en te rs , le en by he ta , is ed as a ew nd of ly ed ta .
he xt el bm as he me re as he st ( gh we an er he er of ts ts ) nd is ed in he ct me ay .
er ls of he rk an en el er - er re .
is dy re is ed ng a al nd ( 23 ) .
a wo - el el is wn in re 23
we an so er wo al es of he er - el el .
if we ep ly he le er , nd ts n - th er ed ns , we ve a rd ar ( n ) el th an se .
if we ke he wo - en er el nd te he st - el ve ns , as ll as th ts of le - to - en ed ns , we ve a ed el at an be ed in 23 es : st ng a ic ( id ) el of rs or es of me es , en ng he ed en es to in a ly - ed id ef et at es he al re of he en es .
t - 23 t - 23 t
re 23 : er -
we ve ed a ve el or an on ed on he ea at al ts nd al cs an be ed ly by a al ed nn ne .
ce ed , ur ls re le to ly re ex on - es in he ta ut ed re - ng or ty on .
he el as en ed th an on in nd , ut ld nd lf ll to er gh - al me es .
in ly ow - al or ed ta ( or le if we re to el a le ed nt ) a le - er el ht be ed to ve ty ce ch ic me es in al es ch re ly ry ar ut ur in nt es of he ll le .
it ld be le to ve he al se on by ng a ch er er el , ut or er al ta ch as ll dy on re is is ry se he le on of nt es nd ar es er as ny se ty .
so he le - er on of ur el ly ms ch er on er - al ta .
ls th re en rs re le to ly el er - rm al on , nd us ll te is ct .
we ve ed at ur el an ly rn nt es of on , as ll as he ns en se es .
is es ur ch om ca - ed es ch ly ly el ic on , nd ly st ld te ls or ch pe of on .
he ty of he el to on ly , er , is nt on ng nt es of ch ns in he ng ta .
we an to in on er ts en - ng ch ns en us es of on .
if we nt he ta th me ic al nd ty rs ( in ce ng a ns ue ty to a et of ea - es ) , we ld be le to se he me ve el or ny nt le , nd ze al cs om ne pe of on to er .
ly , ur el is ot ed to a le ce of ta .
in he re , we pe to te ow - el on ta ed at he me me as n; we ld en rn he ns en he on am nd he nt es .
he st ta et ed in is ct as ed om ap . cs . mu . du .
is se as ed th ng om sf ia - 23
he nd ta et ed in is ct as ed om tp : / / le . il . it . du / su / rk / tf / .
or ab ck of on nd on of os , we ve ed il es on re ox
