ne ay of ng a ed , gh - al ta on is to se a ge er of ly le ic ls nd ow ne he ns ed by ch el .
a ll - wn le of is ch is a re of ns in ch ch le el is a an , nd he on le ts of ng a ed th - ic an of he al ns .
is is nt to ng an ll ve el in ch ch ta or is ed by st ng ne of he al ve ls nd en ng at al el to te he ta or .
ng ls by rm - ng a re is ve or al ns .
it is sy to t es of le ls to ta ng on - on ( em ) or nt nt , nd es re ly ly re ul an ir in - al ts .
ed , if ly ny ls re ed in c ( id : 23 ) 23 ts te of gy
al on 23 , 23 ( 23 )
ey e .
on
he re , it is le to te ed th ns
ly , re ls re ry nt in gh - al es .
er , or le , he ld of ce es .
it es ut 23 al rs to fy he pe , se , on , nd on of a ce , nd er od ng ns , ur al ms ce a rp or on on is 23 - al ld .
is ot be ne ng a re of ls , ch ed in he 23 - al ld , se he or on ot be er an he al ls in he re nd he al ls st be ly ed to ow em to er he 23 - al ld .
a ry nt ay of ng ns is to ly em to - er nd ze .
gh - al ns , or le , re en ed as he ct of ne - al ns .
if he al ns re ni - or te ns , ir ct ll so be a te an so , ke es of ns , od - ts of ns ot te ry th ns .
if , er , he al ls re a it re ed nd ch on - ns ne or re nt ( i . e . , en ) es , ng ir bu - ns er ( nd ng ) an be ry ul .
al ls of is nd ll be ed ts .
ts of ts ( oe ) an ce ch er ns an he al rt ls .
or le , ch rt el an on - in a nt et of he ns in a gh - al ce , nd ir ct ll en in ll of he ns .
or ng nd - en ts , ne ow - on el an te es at ve he te ll pe of he it , nd er re al ls an re at ll ge es in ts of ke th he ct ne re .
or ng es , ch rt an ce a et of ic ge .
or le , ne rt ld re at he es ee , ne ld re at re is er nt en he ct nd rb , nd ne ld re at gs in ch or es ow ze es re re le an he he se .
ng a oe to ta rs lt se it rs to be ry to te he es , th ct to he rs , of he on on at is ed in he on .
as we ll ee , er , se es an be ed by ng a ss us ve on an he og od of he ta .
23 ng ts of ts by ng od
we er al rt ls or ch it is le to te he ve of he og ty of a ta or th ct to he
ng ts of ts
rs of he rt .
we ne n al rt ls as ws :
p ( d | 23 , .
, n ) = m fm ( d | m ) m fm ( c | m )
re d is a ta or in a te ce , m is ll he rs of al el m , fm ( d | m ) is he ty of d er el m , nd c es ll le rs in he ta ce . 23 or us ta es , he um is ed by he te al .
or an al rt to t he ta ll , it st ve gh ty to he ed ta , nd it st te as le ty as le on he st of he ta ce .
a oe , er , an t he ta ll en if ch rt es a ot of ts ty on te ns of he ta ce , ed nt ts te ty in nt ns .
he us ay to t a oe to a et of ed ly nd ly ed ( i . i . d . ) ta rs 23 is to ow he ve of he og od of ch ed or , d , er he oe .
is is en by
og p ( d | 23 ,
= og fm ( d | m )
p ( c | 23 ,
og fm ( c | m )
he nd rm on he ht - nd de of on 23 is st he ex - ed ve of he og ty of an rt on sy ta , c , at is ed om he oe .
so ng at ch of he al ts as a le ve , he us ty in ng he ve of he og ty of he ta er he oe is ng ly is - ed sy ta .
is an be ne in us ys .
or te ta , it is le to se on ng .
ch rt es a ta ec - or ly , nd is ss is ed il ll he ts en to ee .
on ng is a od ay of ng ow a oe es an ll ty on nd ow nt it is om a al el , ut it is ly ry nt .
bs ng is ly ch re nt .
in bs ng , ch le ws a le om ts or on en he nt es of he er es ( ge - an & an , 23 ) .
en he ta , he en es of ll he ts an ys be ed in el se ey re ly en - nt .
is is an nt ce of he ct on . 23 if he
ll ly be a ty in is le .
23 so ng as fm ( d | m ) is ve , it es ot ed to be a ty at ll , gh it 23 or me - es ls , d is a le ce .
23 he al ce is us in he ed al el of a oe se he ly th en he en es of wo ts is ia he ed ta .
ey e .
on
re 23 : a on of ng bs ng .
at me 23 , he le es nt a ta or , nd he en es of ll he ts re ed in el th es om ir or on en he le es .
at me 23 , he le es re ll ed to ce a re - on of he al ta or om he en es , nd en he en es re in ed in el .
if is ss is ed uf - ly en , it is le to et ly se to he um on .
he ns ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) wn on he ns en le nd en es re he cs ed or ng in ms , ch re ed in
al ts so ve he ty at he ts of he ta or re ly nt en he en te of he rt , he en nd le es rm a te ph , nd it is le to te ll of he ts of he ta or in el en he en es of ll he ts .
so bs ng an te en el es of he en nd le es ( ee re 23 ) .
to et an un - ed te of he nt or he oe , it is ry or he ov in to ge to he um on .
ly , en if it is ly le to ch he ui - um on re ng es , re is a nd , us if - ty .
es om he um on ly ve gh ri - ce ce ey me om ll er he ls on .
is gh ri - ce ps he te of he ve .
se ll , he ce in he es ds on he rs of he el .
is on in he ri - ce es he rs to be ed om ns of gh ce en if he nt is ro .
to nd is le ct , er a on - al et of in at is ng in ch a ay at me ts ve ng al ns nd er ts re ss .
nd ed on he in ll te in he ss as en gh he me - ed nt is ro re .
23 ng by ng ve ce
ng he og od of he ta ( ed er he ta bu - on ) is nt to ng he ck - er ce en he ta on , 23 , nd he um on er he si -
ng ts of ts
, at is ed by ed bs ng om he le es , p
23 ( id : 23 ) p
23 ( d ) og 23 ( d ) = h ( 23 ) ( id : 23 ) og p
23 ( d ) og p
re ( id : 23 ) es a ck - er ce , he le ts te ns er he on ed as a pt , nd h ( 23 ) is he py of he ta on .
23 es ot nd on he rs of he
el , so h ( 23 ) an be ed ng he on .
te at p is st er ay of ng p ( d | 23 , .
on 23 , ed er he ta on , an be en as
re og fm is a om le at ld be en as og fm ( d | m ) th d lf ng a om le ng to he ta .
re is a le nd ve ve to um od ng at im - es st ll of he on ed to et es om he ui - um on nd so es ch of he ce at ks he nt al .
is ve ch es ng a er - nt ve on .
ad of st ng 23 ( id : 23 ) p
, we ze he ce en 23 ( id : 23 ) p
is he on er he ne - ep ns of he ta rs ed by ne ll ep of bs ng ( ee re 23 ) .
he ve on or ng is ve ce is at we ld ke he ov in at is ed by bs ng to ve he al on 23 er he le es ed .
ad of ng he in to um nd ng he al nd al es , we an ly un he in or ne ll ep nd en te he rs to ce he cy of he in to er ay om he al on on he st ep .
se 23 is ne ep er to he um on an 23 , we re ed at 23 ( id : 23 ) p
ss 23 ls 23 , so he ve ce an er be ve .
so , or ov ns in ch ll ns ve ro es 23 = p ty , 23 = 23
, se if he on es ot
23 23 is a al ay to te he ta on if we ne ng a ov
in at he ta on at me 23
ey e .
on
ge at ll on he st ep , it st dy be at um , so he ve ce an be ro ly if he el is ct . 23
er ay of ng ve ce ng is to ew it as a od of ng ll he ys in ch he oe el ld ke to rt he ue ta .
is is ne by ng at , on ge , he on is no re le er he oe el an he al
he al on or he ve ce is at he in -
on he ht - nd de of on 23 ls
le on er p
( 23 ( id : 23 ) p
if ch rt is en to be le , it is le to te he ct es of he ve of og fm ( d | m ) or a ta or , d .
it is so rd to le om 23 nd 23 , so he st wo ms on he ht - nd de of on 23 re le .
by on , he ng re es an ed le om 23
ck a ta or , d , om he on of he ta 23
te , or ch rt ly , he or ty ri - on er ts nt ( i . e . , en ) es en he ta or ,
ck a ue or ch nt le om ts or on .
en he en es of ll he nt es , te he on - al on er ll he le es by ng to - er he al ns ed by ch rt nd or -
ck a ue or ch le le om he al on .
se es te he ed ta or , d .
he rd rm on he ht - nd de of on 23 ts he ct
of he ge of he on of he ne - ep ns ed by a ge in m .
it is ic to te , ut ve mu - ns ( ee on 23 ) ow at it an ly be ed se it is ll
23 it is ly le to ke he ve ce ll by ng a ov in at es ry ly , en if he ta on is ry ar om he al um on .
it is re nt to re ng by ng es ch as ht ay at re at ry le le or as a ro ba - ty en he es of he en es .
ng ts of ts
nd om es he nt of he er wo ms .
he rs of he ts an re be ed in on to he te ve of he ve ce :
is ks ry ll in ce en en a le on of ch ta or is ed in ce of he ll ty on er re - ns .
he ce in he es of he ta rs nd ir ns as me ce se he on re is ic .
ut en he oe is ng he ta ly ll , he ne - ep ns ll be ry ar to he ta , so he ce ll be ry ll .
he se ch en a ta or nd ts on es ng ce in ch he me ay as he se of ed rs or al nd ol ns in a al al .
he ow ce es it le to rm on - ne ng er ch ta or is ed , gh he ns ed in is le se ni - ch ng in ch he er es re ed on he ed di - ts ed on a ng et of he te ng et . 23
re is an ve on or he ng hm in ua - on 23 .
in gh - al ta ts , he ta ly ys ie on , or se to , a ch er - al , ly ed ld .
he oe ds to nd rs at ke a rp ge of og ty ng he ow - al ld .
by ng th a nt on he ld nd ng at he al ns om he nt es of ll he ts do ot ve ly er ty , he oe es at he ty on as he ht al re .
it is le at he oe ll ly gn gh ty to er nt nd ed ts of he ta ce , ut is is ly if he og ty ce is th nd th ts ht nd ts al re re ed at he ta ts .
it is so le to nd nd te ch ts by ng ed bs ng ut ny ta , ut is is st a ay of ng he ng nd ot , as in nn ne ng , an al rt of it .
23 a le le
es ld rk ry ll on ta ns at an be ed to a ct of er - al ns .
is is ed in es 23 nd 23
re re 23 ss ts , ch of ch is a
23 ni - ch ng es er se of he ty of ab to ze ss
ey e .
on
re 23 : ch ot is a ta nt .
he ta ve en ed th a ct of 23 ts .
he es ow he ne rd on rs of he us - ns in ch rt .
he ts re ed th ly ed , ar ns at ve ut he me ce as he ta .
he ve ed ts in ue , ut he ng ns , ch ne he or ty th ch ch of se ss ts ts ts an er an ts rm , in gh .
re of a rm on nd a le is - ed an .
in he ed el , ch ht ta er is ed by he on of wo ts ns , ch re ed ng nt es .
ng a on - ve ng te , he ng ed 23 es of he rs .
or ch te of he rs , he ng on is ed on ry ed ta or :
en he ta , d , te he or ty of ng he an er an he rm in ch rt nd te he st rm on he ht - nd de of on 23 .
or ch rt , ly ct he an or he rm ac - ng to he or .
te he ed ct of he se - ed ns , ch is lf a an , nd le om it to et a ed or in he ta ce .
to id ms , re is ne al rt at is ed to ys ck ts an .
te he ve rm in on 23 ng he ed
23 ng a on de
a oe an so be a ry ve el en ch rt is te ly ed on ry on nd on is ed by he on of a
ng ts of ts
re 23 : ee ed ta ts ed by ed bs ng om he 23 ts ed in re 23
he bs ng ed om a om nt in he ge of he ta nd ed 23 el ns th ng .
ce at he ed el es ta at he id nt at is ng in he al ta .
ge er of ts .
re 23 ws at ns en he ve ce ng hm is ed to t 23 ss ts to 23 - al ic es at ch in ne ge .
he es ed in ir on , on , nd es on ch de of he ge .
he ty le ss he ge as a id .
ch rt so ed a ce or ch el , nd gh se es ed , al ts id ot ze in a ll et of he ns .
en an ge , ut lf of he ts ve a gh ty of ng ir an er an ir rm .
he ts of he en ns re nt ns of he ge .
he ts at he op of re 23 ok ke ge rs in us ns , ns , nd es .
ny of he ts er wn ve en ry nd re ed to te ne nd of an ge .
ey ch rk or wo nt ts of es at ve te es nd nt ns .
23 ng he ts
ne ay to ze a oe is to in ch rt ly , ng he ts to er by ng em nt or ly ed ng es or by ng em on nt ts of he ta ns , or by ng nt el es or he nt ts .
ce ch rt as en ed ly , he al ty ns ed to be ed to a al er to te he al oe .
te on of he ts ms ke a le ea , ut im - ns te at he oe is ar re ly to me ed in or al ma if he ts re ed to ze ly .
er so - ns re ed by ly ng he ts ly th ry ue ns nd ng he ng le in on 23 .
ey e .
on
re 23 : ( a ) me 23 23 es at ch in a le ty ge .
he on , on , nd st of he ge ll ry .
( b ) he ns of ll he 23 - al ns in a ct of 23 ts , ch of ch is a re of a an nd a rm .
he oe as ed to 23 es of he pe wn on he ft .
he ts ve en ed by nd so at ly ar ts re nt .
23 es nd nn es
he nn ne ng hm ( on & ki , 23 ) is ly nt nd sy to nt in re ut ry ow in ks th ed en ts se of he ce ob - ms ed in on 23
ky ( 23 ) ed a ed pe of nn ne th ne le er , ne en er , nd no er ns .
nd nd er ( 23 ) ed at in is re - ed nn ne ( bm ) , he ty of ng a le or is al to he ct of he es at he le ec - or ld be ed by ch of he en ts ng ne .
an bm is re a oe th ne rt er en it . 23 en he en it
23 nn es nd es re ry nt es of ic ve
el , nd he on of he wo es is ms .
ng ts of ts
of an rt is ff , it es a le ty on in ch ch le it is ly ly to be on or ff .
en he en it is on , it es a nt al on by ng he ht on ts on to ch le it to fy he og ds at he le it is on .
ng er he ns er he le es ci - ed by nt ts is ed by ly ng he og ds .
ct ce of he en es en he le ta is le in an bm se he es of he en ts re ly nt en
he ng hm en by on 23 is ly nt to he rd nn ng hm or an bm .
er he ve of he og ty of he ta th ct to he ht ij en a le it i nd a en it j .
he st rm on he ht - nd de of on 23 is
og fj ( d | wj )
= ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) d ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) p
re wj is he or of ts ng en it j to he le ts , ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) d is he ed ue of sj en d is ed on he le ts nd sj is ed om ts or on en d , nd ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) p is he ed ue of sj en ng bs ng of he en nd le ts is ed to et es om he um on in a rk se ly en it is j .
he nd rm on he ht - nd de of on 23 is :
p ( c | w )
og fj ( c | wj )
re w is ll of he ts in he bm nd ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) p is he ed ue of sj en ng bs ng of ll he en nd ll he le ts is ed to et es om he um on of he bm .
ng on 23 om on 23 nd ng ns er
he on of he ta es = ( 23 ( id : 23 ) p
= ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) p
he me ed to ch um nd he gh ng ri - ce in ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) p
ke ng lt .
it is ch re ve to se he te nt of he ve ce .
or an bm , is te nt is ly sy to te :
( 23 ( id : 23 ) p
) ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 )
is he ed ue of sj en ne - ep ns re ed on he le ts nd sj is ed om ts or on en he on ( ee re 23 ) .
ey e .
on
23 ng he es of en ts
en ed th al gh - al ta , a ed nn ne ed to ze he ve ce ng on 23 ld rn a et of ic ry es at el he ta ll .
to st is re , an bm th 23 en ts nd 23 le ts as ed on 23 23 23 al - ed es of en ts om ll 23 es .
he es , om he br ng et on he ps ar 23 , re ed in th nd ht , ut ey re ly le in le .
he el es re ed to ie en 23 nd 23 so at ey ld be ed as es , nd on 23 as ed to se es in ce of ic ry es or th he ta nd he
( 23 ( id : 23 ) p
) ( id : 23 ) pj ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) pj ( id : 23 )
ly en ry es of he en ts re ll ed or ng he es of he ed ls , ut ad of ng ry es or he ls om se es , he es es re ed as he ed ta or .
it es 23 rs in ab 23 on a 23 hz um ii on to rm 23 hs of ng .
is is ch er an rd tz - nn ne ng , le th he ke - ep hm ( in - on , an , ey , & al , 23 ) nd ly er an ng em to t a re el th he me er of rs .
in ch ch , he ts re ed 23 es ng he te nt of he ve ce ed on ni - es of ze 23 at ed 23 rs of ch it ss .
he ng te as et ly to be ut ne - er of he te at ed nt ns in he pa - rs .
to ve he ng ed er , a um od as ed .
er he st 23 hs , he er es ed by ua - on 23 re ed by ng 23 es he us te .
he oe ed ed es se ry es ed st ct ns .
or ch ge , ut ne - rd of he es re ed on .
me of he ed es ad on - er ff - nd ep - ve ds or ce sa , me ed ke es of ke , nd me ed ke or rs or ts .
he ts of 23 of he en ts , se - ed at om , re wn in re 23
ng ts of ts
re 23 : he ve ds of a ly ed et of he 23 en ts in a oe at as ed on 23 es of ts th al rs om ch ss .
ch ck ws he 23 ed ts ng a en it to he ls .
he le es om 23 ( te ) to 23 ( ck ) .
23 ng ed ls of en ts or on
an ve ct of es is at it is sy to te he or in on 23 , so it is sy to te he og ty of a ta or up to an ve nt , og z , ch is he og of he or in on 23 .
ly , it is ry rd to te is ve nt .
is es ot er if we nt to re ly he es of wo nt ta rs er he oe , ut it es it lt to te he el ed by a oe , se he us ay to re he ss of ng is to um he og es at he oe ns to st ta rs wn om he me on as he ng ta ut ot ed
or a ty on sk , it ld be le to in a oe on or - al ta nd en to rn a le ar ld ue or he al -
ey e .
on
ed og es in er to ze on en al ta nd a ew al es .
is es od se of he ty of a oe to rm ed ng .
it is nt to ve an si - on ng a ry ve te el of al es at ly ns he me ed og ty or ll al es .
an ve ay to te he ng re is to rn wo nt es on nt ta ts ch as es of he it 23 nd im - es of he it 23
er ng , a st ge , t , is ed to 23 nd 23 , nd ey te og p ( t | 23 ) + og 23 nd og p ( t | 23 ) + og 23 , re - ly .
if he ce en og 23 nd og 23 is wn , it is sy to ck he st ly ss of he st ge , nd ce is ce is ly a le er , it is te sy to te it ly ng a et of on es se ls re wn .
if ve ce is he ly al nd ll he nt es re wn in ce , it is ob - ly le to in ll he rs of a em ly .
in is le , er , ve ce on he ts is ed ly as a ay of ng at ed es rn ry od ls of he al it es .
re 23 ws es ed by a oe at ns a er of 23 en ts nd is ed on 23 es of he it 23
re 23 ws me ly en st es of 3s nd ir ne - ep ns om he ry es of he oe ed on 3s nd om an al oe ed on 3s .
re 23 ws he ed og ty es of me ng nd st es er a el ed on 23 es of he it 23 nd a el ed on 23 es of he it 23
ly , he al st et or he ps ts es he rd on at st ta ld be wn om he me on as he ng ta , so re he st es re wn om he ed on of he al ng et .
en or he ly en st es , he es er he wo ls ow ct on .
to ve is nt on , it as ry to se ls th wo en rs nd ge he es om wo ly ed ls of ch it ss .
or ch it ss , ne el ad 23 ts in ts st en er nd 23 in ts nd en er .
he er el ad 23 in he st en er nd 23 in he nd .
he ts in he st en er re ed ut rd to he nd en er .
er ng he st en er , he nd en er as ed ng he es of re on in he st en er as he ta .
or ng , he es ed by he wo en rs re ly ed er .
ng he re ed by he nd en er ds to ly se on of he it es on st ta .
re 23 ws he ed og ty es or ly en st es of 3s nd 3s , ch re he st lt es to te .
on is ot ct , ut it is ng at ll
ng ts of ts
re 23 : he ts ed by 23 en ts ed on 23 23 es of he it 23
he le es om 23 ( te ) to 23 ( ck ) .
te at he ds re ly te al .
a al re ke he ne in mn 23 , ow 23 ks ke an ge or , ut it is st od as a al on of a te .
se at ll he er ve es te an ge of a 23 at rs om he ta in ng a ge op se op ls on he ck rt of he ve ld .
by ng on is re , he op of he op an be ed nd ed by a ne nt at is a le er in he ge .
of he rs re se to he on ry , so re re no nt
23 ng th le es .
if re re 23 nt es or he 23 it es , it is ly ss us ow to se he 23 ed es of a st ge or on .
ne ty is to se a on et to in a ic on rk at es he ed og es en by he es nd ts em to a ty on ss he 23 ls .
re 23 ws he ts in a ic
ey e .
on
re 23 : he er ow is ly en es of 3s .
( op ) el ba - es en he ge is ed om he ry es of 23 re rs at ve en ed on 3s .
( om ) el es or on - ns om he ry es of 23 re rs ed on 3s .
og es of th ls on ng ta
og es er th ls on st ta
re er 23
re er 23
re 23 : ( a ) he ed og ty es of he ng es of he ts 23 nd 23 er he ed es or 23 nd 23
( b ) he og ty es or ly en st es of 3s nd 3s .
te he od on of he wo es .
on rk at is ed er ng 23 oe ls to he 23 te it es .
in er to ee er he nd en rs re ng ul ve on , ch oe ed wo es .
he st re as he ed og ty of he el es er a oe el at ed of he ts in he st en er .
he nd re as he ed og ty of he es of on of he st er of en ts er a oe el at ed of he ts in he nd en er .
he ts in re 23 ow at he nd er of en ts es ul al on .
ng ts of ts
re 23 : he ed og ty es of he ly en st es of 3s nd 3s .
gh he es re ot ly le , ll he rs re se to he st ng ne , so re re no nt rs .
ly is is se it es he ay in ch es ed in he st en er re ed .
a nd - el el ld be le to gn gh es to he rs of en es at re al of he st - el 23 el en it is en es of 3s nd ow es to he en es of he st - el 23 el en it is en es at in ns of es at re ot ly nt at he me me in a 23
he or te is 3% ch es ry ly th he 3% or te of a le st - or er on he me ng nd st ts nd is ut he me as he ry st er ed on ic ls of he ts ( ow , ms , & on , 23 ) .
if 3% ts re ed ( by ng an te ld or he ty el of he st le ss ) , re re no rs on he 23 st es .
al nt rk es re ed or he it - ic es , nd he ts ed re or he re at id st on he st ta .
gh is is al of ch on ng ms , he ct at st ta re ed or el on ns at he ed ts re a ed te of he ce on ly en st es .
az nd on ( 23 ) rt od ve ts or he er st se , nd ey re ul to do ll he el on ng ts of he ng ta so at he al st ta re ed ly to re he al or te .
ey e .
on
re 23 : he ts ed by ng al ic on on he ng ta th he ls as ts nd he ed og ty es om he ed , it - ic es as ts .
ch mn ds to a it ss , ng th it 23
he op ow is he es or he es .
he xt 23 ws re he ts ed to he es at nt he og ty of he ls er he el ed by he st en er of ch oe .
he st 23 ws re he ts ed to he es at nt he og es of he es on he st en er er he el ed by he nd en er .
te at gh he ts in he st 23 ws re er , ey re ll te ge , ch ws at he es om he nd en rs de ul , al ve on .
te so at he es ed by he 23 el de ul ce in or of 3s .
23 ow od is he on ?
he ct at he ng re in on 23 es od ts in he ns ed in ns 23 , 23 , nd 23 ts at it is fe to re he al rm in he ht - nd de of on 23 at es om he ge in he on 23
to et an ea of he ve de of he rm at is ng ig - ed , ve ns re ed ng ed nn es th ll rs of le nd en ts .
by ng ns at re al in he er of en ts nd he
ng ts of ts
re 23 : ( a ) a am of he ts in he ve ce as a lt of ng on 23 to rm ne te of he ts in ch of 23 ks .
he ed es on he ht - nd de of on 23 re ed ly .
he ks ad ht le nd ur en ts .
he al ts re ly en om a an th an 23 nd rd on 23
he ng ta re en at om .
( b ) he ts in he og od of he ta or 23 ks en in ly he me ay as in re 3a .
te at he og od ed in wo es .
he es in he og od re he me as he es in 23 ( id : 23 ) p
ut th a
it is so le to re at ns to 23 ( id : 23 ) p
er of le ts , it is le to te he ct es of ( id : 23 ) sj ( id : 23 ) 23
en he on in on 23 is ed to te he ts by an nt at is ge ed th he al on of he ne ut ll ed th he re of he ve ce .
he ms ed or se ns ad om ng ta nd an - om ts .
ey id ot ve es on he le or en ts .
he in lt an be ed as ws : or an al ht , he ht - nd de of on 23 , ed er ll ng es , on - ly rs in gn om he ft - nd de .
ut or ks ng re an wo ts in ch er it is st in at a el te of ll he ts ed on he ht - nd de of on 23 ll ve he ve ce .
in er ds , en we ge er he in - ng ta , he or of er es en by he ht - nd de is st in to ve a ve ne th he ue nt ed by he ft - nd de .
re 3a is a am of he ts in he ve ce en on 23 as ed to rm ne ar - el ht te in ch of 23 , 23 ks .
he ks ed ht le nd ur en ts , nd ir ts re en om a an on th an ro nd rd on 23
th er ts or er ks , he on in on 23 is
ey e .
on
re 3b ws at he ng re es ot ys ve he og od of he ng ta , gh it as a ng cy to do so .
te at ly 23 ks re ed or is am .
re 23 es he ns to he nt of he ve ce de by he ht - nd de of on 23 nd by he rm at is ng ed .
he or of ht es en by on 23 es he ve ce se if he ts in re 23 re ve he al ne , so it is ar at in se ks , he on in
on 23 is te fe .
ly , we ct 23 to ie en 23 nd p
er to 23 , he es so en he rs re ed to ve p
ld so ve 23
he ed es in 23 an nt in he ve ce ( ch is at re 23
rd 23 nd ay om he us on of p
ld se an se in 23
it is ng to et he ng le in on 23 as te
on of he ve og od : ( id : 23 ) 23 ( id : 23 ) og p
ly , he ve og od an ve ts um ue of 23 by ly ng ll le rs in he ta ce ly le .
he ve ce rs om he ve og ke - od by ng he es of he ns 23 nd 23 on 23 ) , nd so he gh py of 23 es ut he on in ch ll le ta rs re le .
23 er es of rt
ry ic ls re ot le or ng ed es of en ts in ch nk nd nd re ed as 23 nd 23
in al es , er , re is ly ry gh al or - on en he al - ed ty of ne el nd he al - ed es of ts rs .
is ot be ed by ls at se bi - ry ic ls se a ry el an er ve re an 23 it of al on th ng .
it is le to se al ix - ls at ve n te es .
is is a sy on or es se it ls to re he ty nd ne - ty of el ty , gh it ay be ul or er es of ta .
a er ch is to ne ng ch le it so at a el ds to a le et of ry le ts at ll ve al ts to he en ts .
he er of ve ts in he et an en te a al - ed in - ty .
ng on , he er of ve ts ll be ly ed , nd se ll he as ve he me ts , he le ty at ls is al on ds to be ed ly ce .
he me ck an be ed to ow ed en ts to
ng ts of ts
re 23 : a er ot at ws he ve es of he ed nd ed ts of a el ht te on he ve ce .
he 23 ks ed or is re ve 23 le nd 23 en ts , nd ir ts re wn om a ro - an an th a rd on of 23
he al is ws ( 23 ( id : 23 ) p ) ( 23 ( id : 23 ) p
( ew ) ) re ld nd ew te he ns re nd er he ht te .
is ed on in he ve ce rs om he ue on se it es he ct at ng he ts es he on of he ne - ep ns .
he se in he ( ew ) ( id : 23 ) p
ve ce ue to he ed rm , 23 is ed on he al is .
ts ve he al ne ld nd to es in ch he ed se ed he ed se , so at he et ct as to ke he ve ce se .
te at he ed ts st ys se an al nt in he ve ce er an ng in ct th he ed ts .
te al es ng ly ed er es .
a et of ed ts an be ed as a ly ap on to ts se ts ly er , or it an be ed as a ry on to he or of a le it er me , in ch se he er of ve as is a ng te .
eh nd on ( 23 ) ve wn at is pe of te ng an be te ve or ng al - ed es of es , ed he es re ed .
an ve to ng en ts is to se or ts at ch st of a re of a rm on nd a or er
ey e .
on
th st ne or .
ch rt as a ry nt le at es er to se he rm or he or er nd a al - ed nt le at es he ue of he or ( if it is ng ed ) .
he or er as ee ts of rs : a or of or gs at ec - fy he on of he or in ge ce , a or of ns in ge ce , nd a or of es in ge ce . 23 ts of is pe ve en ed in he xt of ed ic hs ( on , ns , & ni , 23 ) , ut ey ld rk er in a oe .
an ve to ng a ge er of ly le ts is to ke ch rt as ed as le , le ng he ty to te he ct ve of he og od of he ta th ct to he rs of an rt .
in ng ic es , or le , ch rt ld be a re of ny is - ed ns .
me ts ht us on ne on of an ge by ng ry gh es or ls de at on .
ut so ng as he ns ed by nt ts ap , it ld be le to id ck ry ts .
23 ts of en ov ls .
en ov ls ( ms ) re of at al ue in ng es of te ls or es of al - ed rs se re is an nt hm or ng he rs of he mm to ve he og ke - od of a et of ed es .
ms re , er , te ed in ir ve er se he ly ay at he on of a ng ed up to me t an in he on of he ng ed er me t is by he te en te of he or at me t .
so if he st rt of a ng as , on ge , n ts of al on th he st of he ng , he mm st ve 3n en es to ey is al in - on by ts ce of en te .
is al cy an be me by ng a ct of ms as a or .
ng on , ch mm ts to ck a en te at ch me so he al ma - on en he st nd he re an be ar in he er of ms .
it is re ly re nt to ve ny ll ms an ne ig ne .
er , to ly he rd rd - rd hm to a ct of ms , it is ry to ke he ss - ct of ir te - es , ch ws ay he al in .
or ts of ms to be of al ce , it is ry to nd an nt ay to in
ew wn ( wn & on , 23 ) as wn at he ng hm in on 23 ks ll .
he rd - rd hm is ed to et he nt of he og od of an ed or ed
23 he st wo ts of rs re ly nt to he rs of a ni - ss rt ed in on 23 , so a ss rt an be ed to be a re of a rm th a or er at as no rs .
ng ts of ts
re 23 : a en ov el .
he st nd rd es ve ut is - ns at re rm ss ll ds .
if he st de as a gh on ty to lf , st gs of sh ds re en he me ow ob - ty by is rt .
gs at in he rd ut ed ly or ly by he rd up ve er ty er is rt .
ce th ct to he rs of an al rt .
he ne - ep on of a ce is ed as ws :
en an ed ce , se he rd - rd hm in ch rt ly to te he or ty bu - on er hs gh he en es .
or ch rt , ly ct a en th om he or
en he ed ce .
at ch me ep , ct an ut ol or ut or om he ct of he ut ns ed by he ed en te of ch mm .
if re ic ts of ms an be ed ly by ni - ng he ve ce , ey ld be er an le ms or ny nt ds of al ta .
er , or le , he mm wn in re 23
is rt ly es a al ty .
a le mm at st so el ll he er es in gs of sh ds ld ot re is ty ly se it ld ot rd to te ts re ry ty to ng er he rd ut ad dy ed in he ng .
re ve en us ts to rn ns by ng rs to el ut he ts of ef on in a nt rk ( on & nd , 3; ly , 3; ng , 23 ) , ut se re
ey e .
on
ot ed ng a ic ve el nd an te
ng ve ce as an ed ty to he ng hm ed by on ( 23 ) .
ns am om - ed es de of ks th ar es ed by a er , nd it ed he es in ts ns of he ct nd ct es to de ch ts of ts on re nt .
by ng a ic ve el , we an se th he er , ut it is ll he es en he al ta nd he ar es ed by he el at ve he ng of he nt es .
23 ic on ls .
he ea of ng he ns of le nt rt ls by ng a ed ge in he og ty in is ar om ew ( st & ek , 3; es , 23 ) , ut ch as ed on ow to nd he st ts or ng ts at ve dy en ed or ed ly ( er , la ra , & la ra , 23 ) er an ng he ts ly .
he ic an of a et of ty ns as he ve ty at ts ck - er ce om he ue on , p , is er an he ge of he ck - er es of he al ns , q :
p ( id : 23 ) wm
kl ( p ( id : 23 ) qm )
re he wm re ve nd um to 23 , nd z = ( id : 23 ) m ( c ) .
en ll of he al ls re al , z = 23
se , z is ss an ne , nd he ce en he wo es of on 23 is og ( 23 / z ) .
is es it ar at he et of ng ry nt ts es om he ct at ey ke z ll , ly in ts of he ta ce at do ot in ta .
it is ng to nt es by ng ch rt , m , an al ve er , wm , at es ts og es .
er , is es ce ch re lt ( ee - ye eh , al on , 23 ) .
er , or le , an rt th wm = 23
is is nt to ng 23 es of an rt ut th ir nt es ll ed er , nd is ng ts he ce .
it is er to x wm = 23 nd ow he oe ng hm to ne he te ss of he
23 ip to ng .
in he ed ng ra - re , ds ch as ng or ng pt to ke ts if - nt om ne er by ng nt , or ly ed , ng ta .
er ng , se ds se he ed ge of he ut - ts of he al ts .
he ay in ch he ts re ed
ng ts of ts
is te or a al oe el in ch he ut of an di - al rt is he an of a an , ts ht is he se ce of he an , nd he ed ut is he an of he ct of ll he al ns .
el nd si ( 23 ) ve ly wn at is ew ws a on of ng to be ed as a dy od of ng a le ve on .
he ct at ng ks ll or ed ng ts at it ld be ed or ed ng .
in ng , he ts re ed ly , nd ch ew rt is ed to ta at ve en ed so at ta rs at re ed ll by he ng ex - ts ve ry le ht nd ce ke ry le on to he nt or he ew rt .
a oe ts ll he ts at ce , ut it es an ct ar to ng by ng he nt of he ed ta so at re is ry le ng on ta at re al - dy ed ll .
ne ig ge of a oe er ng is at a oe an us he ng on he ts of a ng or at ve gh re - on rs .
is ws es to rn al es .
th ng , an re ng se es a le ar ht er an a or of on rs , so en ng is ed or ed ng , it es ot so ly er al es .
23 on th ed ic al ls .
ce in a oe is al se he ts re ly le nd he od - ct on es at he en es of nt ts re di - ly nt en he ta . 23 is es em nt as ls of al al ms , ch st be le to do ce ry ly .
ve es ed on ed ic al ls ( al , 23 ) er om he ng - ay on .
en ch al ls re ly ed , ct ce is le , so it is ry to rt to er ut ly ow ve es or te ce ( ul & an , 23 ) or to se de ma - ns at re ng ay ng ce nd ly on he ng hm to nd ns or ch he dy ce ue is ot oo ng ( on et al . , 23 ) .
ly , he se of ce in es is ed by he ty of ng sy ta om he el .
is an be ne ly in ne al ss in a ed ic al el ut es an ve re ch as bs ng in a oe .
if , er , on 23 is ed or ng , he ty of ng es om he el is ot a
in on to he se of ce at ts om he al in - ce of he ts en he ta , es ve a re le ad -
23 is es to be ue en re re ng ta .
ey e .
on
ge er ve ls at rk by st ng es or he nt es nd en ng a ta or om se nt es .
if ch a el as a le en er nd he nt es ve nt or ns , re ll be a ng cy or he or es of he nt es in a ll - ed el to ct he al ce at rs en he el es ta . 23 or is on , re as en le ss th ts to rn ch en - ve ls ne en er at a me in a dy , om - up ay .
th es , er , en gh he ts ve nt rs , he nt es in nt ts ll be ly nt : ey an be ly ed ss es en or sy ta ed by he oe lf .
so er he st en er as en ed ly , re ay ll be ts of al re in he nt es or he nd en er to re .
re is re me pe at an en - ly ed rk ld rn to ct a hy of re - ns om es of al es , ut ss rd is al re - es an ve ay of ng th al - ed ta .
he es of ex - rt at ve en ed so ar ve ot ed as ll as de - nt nt is at ng es ke es om al
he st ve ty of a et of al is ns is at it is le to te he nt on ch is on ly ut ng ut he ts on er is ns .
a oe ns is ve ty le ng al ts nd a ar ve el .
23 al ns en en ts .
he se of ng he es of he en ts ( nt es ) en he ta is a or ge of es .
is ge rs to be st if he nt es of nt ts re ed to ct ly .
if , or le , re re ct , al ns en he en ts in a ed nn ne , it es le to er he ct on er en es en en he le es .
er , ry ns ow at he ve ce ea an ll be ed ly ng a ed an - ld od to nd an ng on er he en ts or th he ta or nd ts on - on .
he ng re en as he ng ps or ch ta
23 is is sy to nd om a ng ve in ch he ta re mu - ed by st ng he es of he nt es er an nt or nd en ng he ta en he nt es .
if he nt es re ot ly in - nt , is ng me is nt , so re rd ng cy es re rd ce .
ng ts of ts
th he ta or ed on he le ts , te he al om - up ut , xj , to ch en it , j , nd ze it to ve al - ed te , 23
= ( xj ) , re ( . ) is he ic on .
rm 23 ed an - ld ns in ch ch en it
es ts al al ut yt j at me t ,
nd en ts ts te , qt
+ 23 ( xj + yt
so re 23
or ch ir of a le it , i , nd a en it , j .
or ll rs of en ts , j , k .
ck a al ry te or ch en it , j , ng to 23 se se ry es to te a ed ta or .
rm ne re ed an - ld on on he en ts ng om he al te nd th he ta , ut ng he om - up ut om he on er an he ta .
re he me cs as ve .
te ry ht in on to he ce in he ed
cs in ps 23 nd 23
it is ry or he an - ld ns to ge or is ce - re to rk , ch ay re ng or ng he ts on he al ns .
he al at he an - ld on is ss or al ay ot be nt or rn - ng a al em , ce it es se to id ng ls of he ld in ch re re le , ry nt ns of he me ry ut .
ve ce ng es he em of ng he ly al um on at ts if th le nd en ts re ed .
it es is by ng at he ed ta er ll of he nt es th ly he ht cy or ch de .
he ct at he al ns rk is ry ng ce et - ks th le en rs an ys be ed as ks at ve a le ly ed en er th ny of he al nd rd ns ng .
er , he me en or he et - rk to le ns at ks th al ns re ly er an ly rd ks , nd re ch is ed to te at he ss of ed is th he ra al
ey e .
on
a ch er ay to se ed al ns is to de he en ts to ly ve ls .
in ch ol , ly ne en it is ed to rn on , nd is it is en ng he ax
pj = xp ( xj )
ly , is pe of ic er - ke - ll on ng he en ts as no ct er on he ve ce ng le .
he ng es ot en ed to ow ch en ts te th ch er .
he on an be ed in a ry le ay by ng ch en it , j , be a on ss th a te of xp ( xj ) .
he st it to it a ke is he er .
he er ts in he ol ld en be ut ff by an ry it at is ed by he er .
if he ol is ed to ce a ed er of es re ng ut ff , he ng le ns ed , ut es ke sj ay ke on er es er an 23
if a en it is ed to be a er of al nt ng ls , he is ts ch re lt , nd re ch is ed .
23 ip to is - by - is .
es de an nt on of he ld al ea of is - by - is .
is ea er ed ly se he ve ls re ot ed to ke he is sy .
in a oe , it is lt to te ta om he ve el , ut en he el , it is sy to te ow ny en ta or ht ve en ed , nd , as we ve en , it is ly sy to rn he rs of he ve el .
ly , he ve ls at re st te or is - by - is ay be he es in ch is is le .
is ch as ed by he by le on .
ks to in ni , id ay , er an , rd al , id we , ee - ye eh , uy az , dy wn , nd er rs of he by it or ul ns nd to he es or ny ul ts at ed he le .
