we be a ic ch to he sk of ng ts , de - ed by gh - al rs or by se es , in a ow - al ce in a ay at es or es .
a an is ed on ch ct in he gh - al ce nd he es er is an ( or he en es ) re ed to ne a ty on er ll he al rs of he ct .
he im of he ng is to te is bu - on as ll as le en he me on is ed on he ow - al es of he ts .
a al st on is a um of ck - er es , ne er ct , ch ds to a le nt or ng he ns of he ow - al im - es .
ke er ty on ds , is ic rk es it sy to nt ch ct by a re of ly ed ow - al es .
is ws us ts , ke he nt nt or or he rd nk , to ve ns se to he es of th er nd ce ut ng he es of or ts to be ed se to se of te ts .
ic ty on is an nt it on in ne rn - ng , th as a ng ep or er ms ( e . g .
to ce er ut ze ) nd as a al in lf or on , on , on , tc .
re re ny ys to ed ts , ed by gh - al rs or by se im - es , to a er - al ce .
al ng ds ( 23 ) ve es en ms , as ed er by an ce , me ar ng of es , or st ph hs as th ap ( 23 , 23 ) .
al po - ts is ( ca ) ds a ar on of he al ta ch es as ch ce as le .
er ds pt to ve al ry ( e . g .
le ( 23 ) ) or te gh - al ts th a ed id of ts in he ow - al ce ( e . g .
lf - ng ps ( 23 ) or ir ic on tm ( 23 ) ) .
ll of se th - ds , er , re ch gh - al ct to be ed th ly a le on in he ow - al ce .
is es it lt to ld ny - to - ne gs in ch a le us ct ly gs in al te ns in he ow - al ce .
in is er we ne a ew on of ng ed on le rs .
ur hm , ic or ng ( ne ) es to ce he ts in a ow - al ce so as to ly ve od ty , nd an be ly ed to ow le nt ow - d es of ch ct .
23 he ic ne hm
ic ) , or ey ay be ed ng he ed ed an ce ( fn -
, ay be en as rt of he em on ( nd ed ot be
or ch ct , , nd ch al or , , we rt by ng he ic ty , , at ld ck as ts or :
ty ) en wo gh - al ts , ! " #$ ! or he ue of ) ( ch we et ut ss of ty to be / ks nt as ts or is a on of he ow - al es 23 of ll he
at es he py of he on er rs al o* ' + , . -
) so he ed ty 23
in he ow - al ce we so se an ds ut th a ed ce
is er et by nd or ( as in me of ur ts ) nd by a ry ch
is he ve er of al rs or ty nd is en by nd .
he im of he ng is to ch se wo ns as ll as le .
is is ed by ng a st on ch is a um of ck - er es
ts nd is en by he on :
ce is en by nd ( ch ss an he er of ts ) .
en he al ( 23 ) nd ed ( 23 ) ns er rs or ch ct : he ty of 23 ce at 23
is ll es me of he ty ss in 23
on so re is a st or ng a ig ce in he gh - al ce th a ll ce in he ow - al ce , gh it is ss an he st of ng a ll ce th a ig ne .
in is ct , ne is an nt er ds ke le ( 23 ) or om ( 23 ) in ch ly ed ta - ts an be ed as ar rs in he ow - al ce .
he on is at le ne es al es , ts st on ly es th ng he es of by ts by nd ng he es of ly ed ts ly ar rt .
he lt is le :
ng c is us 23
ia he on rm in eq .
23 , ut ch as he ce on of a um of es 23 " 23 or ng it ay ng on er en he nt , re re ny le ys to 23
nd we ve ly st be - un he ch or he st od .
st nt in ch ll of he ts re ed in el is nt nd an et ck in or al ma .
ng om er at es th me ds ch er al ma nd is he od we ed or he am - es in is er , en gh it is ll te ow .
we ze he ng by ng ll he ow - al es in om ns ry se to he in .
al er on ds , ng ng he ty , re ed in ns 23
is ed to be a or re or ss en an ed .
23 on of ne to ge nd nt ns as a ic on of he ty of ne to el gh - al , ar - or ps ng ly wo ns , we an he hm on a on of ps of en ts nd on a et of rd - or ts en om he ed gs of ps ce rs .
th of se ts re ly to ve ic re in ny er ns an ir aw es : 23 or he en ts nd 23 or he or - rd ts .
om ch of he ve es 23 , 23 , 23 , 23 , 23
he ce of he an nd ch nt
to in , we ed a et of it ps om he ps se ( 23 ) th es in he ( - al aw el ge ce as et to ve a ty of 23 in he on er gh - al rs .
ne as ed by ng ll he 23 "
in om ns ry se to he in nd en as ed ng nt nt th ed se .
gh ne as en no on ut ss ls , it te ly es he it ps as wn in re 23
re , in ch on of he ow - al ce , ne as ed he ta so at es ke on , ew nd ke - ss nd to ry ly .
or he ng wn , he ne
st on in eq .
23 as a ue of s; th a rm on ss ow - ts .
we so ed al rs , he st is
al nt is ( ca ) ( 23 ) to he me a; he on to he st wo al ts es ot te es ly as ly as ne se ca is ch re ed in ng he ge ns ht ch es it to le up me of he es en ar es .
in is nt , we ed it es at do ot ve ry ar rs ke 23 nd 23 or 23 nd 23
en re re re es nd ly wo le ns , ne es ot as ly te ry ar rs .
we ve so ed ne to rd - nt nd rd - or es ed om he ed xt of ps me 23 - 23 rs ( 23 ) .
re 23 ws a ap ng ps au - rs to wo ns .
ch of he 23 rs ho ed re an ne er
nd ng st es re rs ho ed ix or re rs in at od .
rd ts , ed ss ll ps rs .
co - ed rs ve al ts ly to ll rs .
ll ds ng in ix or re ts re ed , ex - pt or ds ng a ry ze of 23
( he ow it ( 23 ) as ed or
in ps ls .
23 - 23 is wn by a ot at he on 23 rt of he re - ng of he ta . ) he )
nd by e; er ed ts re ed as he rm of he ce en og te or re et to ve a al ty of ( rs .
ne ms to ve ed rs by ad ps ld : ve
ls , rt or es , ce , nt ng nd si ll ve le ed ns .
23 a ll re on of ne he an ic on of ne es it sy to fy he st on so at ad of a le ge , ch gh - al ct an ve al nt ns of ts ow - al ge .
se ve ns ve ng ns
is a re of he ns ed
at um to .
ge - on of ct as 23 ow - al od on or by ch of ts ge - ns ss ll ge - ns of a al or :
nd ng 23
in is le - ge el , he es th ct to he ge ns 23 re d; he es w . r . t he ng ns re st ly ed
re 23 : ng of ps rs to wo ns .
ch of he 23 rs ho ed re an ne er in ps ls .
23 - 23 is ow by a ot at he lo - nd by he ne hm .
er ed ts nd ng st es re rs ho ed ix or re rs in at od .
he et in er ft ws a up of he ed ed al on of he ce .
es be - en rs re ed ed on ed an ce en rs of og te or rd ts .
co - ed rs ve al ts ly to ll rs .
ll ds ng in ix or re ts re ed , pt or ds ng a ry ze of 23
he ps xt ta is le at
is en by
in ms of , he ty at on of ks on of : he ct 23 of ng he ng on or on of ct on he st , c , is
nd se .
he ct of ng
on on ax ts ed by
as a of - of - pt , we ly ed a ed re on in ch ry ct is ed in he ow - al ce by ly wo ts at
er an ng he ng ns ly , it is er to rm ed
by a ce ch es ly up to a ld on .
nd is ld he ce ns nt . 23 we an wo ts th is ed re on
he es nd ng ch el at om om ne of se wo ts .
er ni - of he on - ds ad ly nt ns or ir wo re ts .
er , he re ts of ch id ys ay in he ns of he ce ed to he es of ts wo ts nd
he wo ts re ed er of ne .
we ok a et ng es of ch of he ts 23 , 23 , 23 nd ed
id it - es at re ch ed by ng ew es of wo of
re ed to ve ng ns of of he ds nd ly
in ng he al ds , a ep ze of or ch on te of nt , nd ed a nt er of
es it le to ap a le to a ne ut ng ny ar or ps or ng ny ew es .
ts ar ne ut nt on he le an ed to a re of wo ts , ne ar ne nd of he ne nd ne ar he er nd .
ly , he on of he ut on he wo - al le ts ed by ch rs of re ts it st ng he ic on .
or in on am - rs at ol he se th ch wo re ts an be ed rt , ly a le ut in he le is de .
or er er gs , er , he le ay nt to wo or re er ne - ts , ch of ch is ly ct ut ch ay ot be ed to ch er .
er in he on ed to he rd ss .
or is le we ed a ty of .
ur ry le re on of ne so
he le th id ts es at en he st ve re on of ne an al th us gh - al ts at ed to be ed to wo ly ed ns of he ow - al ce .
re rk ds to be ne re ne is nt gh to pe th ge es of nt - rd ts , ut it is he ly ty on od we ow of at es to at ms ly ut ng ck to he al ts to te ch ce of
we ed a ld of
at ld he ce as
ce as a al le se he ce of he an ed to ne
ts er it th .
he ow - d is x ed at 23 .
23 al on es ur nt od of ng he ne st is to se st nt th ed er at is ly ed .
is es te od gs , ch es at he ne st on is th ng , ut it es al rs to nd a od ng
he me er on ld be ed ly by ng rs of ts or ch is ed ng he ng , it is al to fy it by ng ll es ow a in ld th ro nd or -
or st ts so we ly ed a er ch hm .
ll ur of g re ll .
ce he ix
ng .
en h# or ch 23 fg re ro an be ed om nt ns if th 23 g re ll .
is an in rn be ed in ic as k - d es , ll - es nd ad - es , ce he 23 nd ly on
al cs as ed ly is me ty en ng dy al or ic ns ng , or le , he st le od .
me in he ze of he ng et by ng ed ic ta es ch
in he re on of ne re rs to be an ng ay of ng al ma at es ot ve ng he er .
er wo ts in he re or an ct at re ar rt in he ow - al ce .
by ng he ng or - on of ne nd ng he ng on of he er , we an ve ty ss om ne rt of he ce to er ut it er ng at te ns .
is pe of ty le ms ke a od ay to id al ma at se se a er of ow - al ts st ve gh a ad on of he ce in er to ch a er ne .
et er ch od , ch we ve ed th me ss on oy ms , is to de ra ns in he ow - al ce ut to ze on - ro es on se ns .
ng he ch , ne ll se he ra ns to go nd er - al rs ut as he ty on ng se ns is ed , ey ll se to be ed , ly ng he ng to he al ty .
23 on nd ns ry ts ow at we an nd od ma by st ng he ex - ( ng gh er ) nd ly ng he er er he al ty as en
an ed on ch gh - al nt is ry ig so at he on ss rs is st rm .
it is ar at in he gh ce it , he on of to he ne st on is st as nt or nt rs as or is ry ge , it an be wn at ne is nt to ng he ch en ed es in he wo es , ed ll he ed es
ed .
is es he on of at ne is ng en he ce , ) se es .
en ) om an ct re st ed by ng ff ir ic an ,
, of he us -
is he er of ts .
is ch is ry ar to ss ns ed in ic ns of ds , nd es us to nd he ge - ce it of ne as a ar nt of ch es .
we re ll ng he ip to ic ds nd to ca .
ne an so be en as an ng al se of ar al ng ( re ) in re he ta ts of es ( e . g .
in as - er ia ) nd he sk is to ct he rd rm om he er wo .
re ns an n - al or or ch ct nd an xn - al ix or ch on .
to ct he rd rm in a le , re es he or ng he st rm by he ix ng he ip nd es he ng or as he an of a an .
ts ve on or he rd rm is en ed by he ve es of ll wn ts er is an .
ne is st a te on of re in ch he ly ip is ar nd he ix ng is ip is he ty .
in ry , we ve ed a ew on , ic or ng , or ap - ng gh - al ts to a ow - al ce ed on ic on of ar rs .
ke lf - ng ps , in ch he ow - al or - es re ed to a id nd he gh - al ds re ee to ve , in ne he gh - al es re ed to he ta nd he ow - al ts ve .
ur od an so be ed to ry se es en ts if ch re le ad of ( or in on to ) gh - al ns .
he nt of he ne st on as an ng sh - ll ty in ch he es ng on
23 to ng it er to ts it is er - ng nd er om ts it is er - ng
as ts or .
we ve wn ts of ng is hm to ge nd nt ns or ch it ly ed ar ts by in a ow - al ce le ng ar ts ll ed .
st ly , se of ts ic on , ne as he ty to be ex - ed to es in ch us gh - al ts ( ch as he rd nk ) an ve al ly - ed es in he ow - al ce .
ts we nk he us es nd al rs to ur er or ul ns .
nn un ed it nd ps xt ta .
is ch as ed by rc .
