ven a ork of ple ing nts and ome ies to be ted ,
ard eme is to use one ing ent for ach ity .
his is led a cal ion .
it is asy to and and asy to ent use the ure of the cal ork ors the ure of the dge it ins .
his ort bes a ent ype of ion hat is ess iar and der to ink out han cal ons .
ach ity is ted by a ern of ity ted ver any ing nts , and ach ing ent is ved in ing any ent ies .
the gth of his ore ted ind of ion oes not lie in its nal nce or its ase of ion in a nal ter , but her in the ncy ith ich it kes use of the ing ies of rks of ple , ron - ike ing nts .
ery nal eme has its ood and bad nts .
ted ons are no ion .
ome ble ies ike ent - ble ory and tic ion ise ery lly rom the use of rns of ity as ons .
her ies , ike the ity to ily ore a rge set of ary ons , are uch der to eve .
the est cal nce for ted ons is the ree to ich eir ths and ses tch ose of the man ind .
his rch was ted by a ant rom the tem ent ion .
i ank jim son , ave ley ana ard , cis ick , ott man , rry man , her uet - ins , don man , rry ski , and tim ice for ful ons .
jay and and ave art ped me ine and ite any of the eas ted ere a lly sed ion of his ort ill ear as a ter by ton , and and art in lel ted ing : ons in the cro - ure of ion , ted by and and art )
ion 123 ses the ncy of ted ons .
nce ach are nit is ved in ing any ent ems , the nit has a uch ess fic " ive eld " han it uld if the ons ere tly cal - ity in a gle nit als far ess out ich tem is tly ing his ack of ity at the gle nit vel , we all sec hat ted ons arc mes far ore ent at ing ems ely .
ion 123 als ith the ion een the orm of a ord and its ing .
his is a ase in ich ted ons ear to be uch ess ble han cal nes , use the ons are ely ary .
ere arc ery few ing ies ( for ono - mic rds ) , and so the ity of ted ons to ize ply ses ful nce .
ver , ven in his ase ted ons can be gly ent and ror ree .
ion 123 res ted and cal ons rom the int of ing new pts .
cal ons ear to ire a lus ith a ing ron , but ere are ays of ing his .
cal ons lso ire the tem to ake a ete ion out hen to ate a new ept .
ted ons are ore ble , ing pts to be med lly by ght ons hat ely ate one old cpt ' nto ral new nes .
lly , ion 123 ses a ult
is ten ded by tes of ted ons .
man dge is not ust a set of ems or irs of ms; it is red .
at the ery ast , any man - ike ory tem ust be ble to ent tic res in ich lar nts are ing lar les hin the ole ure .
ere is a ulf een his ype of ted ion and the ard ted ory eme in ich a set of the res of an tem can ive ise to the ing res .
ore ing the led nts in vor of ted ons , it is ant to be ear out eir tus hin an all ory of man ion ing .
it uld be ong to iew ted ons as an ive to nal mes ike tic rks or ion ems hat ave een und ful in ive ogy and ial nce .
it is ore ful to iew hem as one way of ing ese ore act mes in lel rks , but ith one iso : ted ons ive ise to ome ful and ted ent ies .
ese ies can ore be ken as ves hen ing in a ore act ism .
so if one mes hat ore act els are ted in the ain ing ted ons , it is not ble to eat ies ike ent - ble ory , tic ion , or the ion of the ule hat est its the ent ion as ive ons , ven ugh ere is no asy way to
ven a ork of ple ing nts and ome ies
to be ted ,
ard eme is to use one ing ent for ach ity .
his is led a cal ion .
it is asy to and and asy to ent use the ure of the cal ork ors the ure of the dsc it ins .
the ess and ity of his hip een dge and the are hat nts it ave led any ple to ply ume hat cal ons are the est way to use lel are .
ere are , of rse , a ide ety of ore ted ons ons are nly rth ing if hey ead to sed ncy or to ing ent ies hat not be tly ved ing cal ons .
is no one - to - one nce een pts and are its , but
his ort bes one ype of ion hat is ess iar and der to ink out han cal ons .
ach ity is ted by a ern of ity ted ver any ing nts , and ach ing ent is ved in ing any ent ies .
the gth of his ore ted ind of ion oes not lie in its nal nce or its ase of ion in a nal ter , but her in the ncy ith ich it kes use of the ing ies of rks of ple , ron - ike ing nts .
ery nal eme has its ood and bad nts .
ted ons are no ion .
ome ble ies ise ery lly rom the use of rns of ity as ons .
her ies , ike the ity to ily ore a rge set of ary ons , are uch der to eve .
as we all see , the est cal nce for ted ons is the ree to ich eir ths and ses tch ose of the man ind .
ion 123 ces a way of ing out ory hat is ery ent rom the nal hor in ich a ory is red at a lar ion and is ved by ing the ion .
the act of ing is wed as a ive ess in ich a ole tem is ted esh rom a ent , uch as urs are ted in ums .
hat is red is the les of nce hat low his ive ess to cur .
ion 123 ows how his ype of ory lly zes wly red dge so hat it can be ied in her , lar ces .
ion 123 nts a way of ing the ous pes of ted ory hat ave een bed in the ure .
the ion is not ive and it oes not ake nto ion the ing mes hat are sed for ing new ies .
ver , it oes rve to ize the ain ons hat ave to be ade in ing a ted ory tem .
ent ese ons in nal ers .
hus , the ion hat an sis of ted ons can ake to ese hcr - vcl sms is to ize ain ful ive ons ich uld ise ear to be an eal to gic .
her mon rce of ion is the dea hat ted ons arc how in ict ith the ive nce for ion of ion in the ain ( ria , 123 ) .
a tem hat ses ted ons ill res any ent les for ing ely ent nds of ing at the ame ime .
the ted ons cur hin ese zed les .
for ple , ent les uld be ted to th ngs as ent as tal ges and nce res , but two ent tal ges uld ond to ive rns of ity in the ame ule .
the ons ted in his ort are cal at a bal ale but bal at a cal ale .
123 : ory as nce
ple ave a ery ble way of ing eir ies : hey can all ems rom ial ons of eir nts ( man & row , 123 ) .
ver , hey can do his ven if ome rts of the ial ion arc ong .
any ple , for ple , can dly eve the tem hat ies the ing ial ion : it is an tor , it is ent , it is a ian .
his ind of " ent - ble " ory is ery ful and it is ery ard to ent on a nal ter use ers ore ach tem at a lar ess , and to eve an tem hey ust now its ess .
if all the ons of ors hat ill be sed for ess are ree of ors and are own in nce , it is ble to use a hod led " ash ing " hat kly lds the ess of an tem hen ven art of its ent .
in ral , ver , ent - ble ory res a ive rch for the tem hat est its the ial ion .
the ral nal lem in ory is how to ake his rch ent .
hen the ues can ain ors his is ery ult use the ure to fit one of the ues not be sed as a ter for kly ing ate ers .
ted ons ide an ent way of ing lel are to ent est - fit hes .
the sic dea is rly ple , ugh it is ite ike a nal ter ory .
ent ems ond to ent rns of ity ver the ery ame oup of are its .
a ial ion tes ome of the its , and ons een the its hen ete the ern ,
hen a ial ion is ted it ust be ned nto a ial ity ern .
his is asy if the ial ion is ply a set of res , but it is uch ore ult if the ial ion ons ips to her cts .
if , for ple , the tem is ked to eve ohn ' s her , it ust ent ohn , but if ohn and his her are ted by lly ive rns of ity in the ery ame oup of its , it is ard to rec how his can be one out ing the ion of ohn ' s her .
a ted ion to his lem is bed in ion 123
hus ing the tem hat est its the ion .
a new tem is " red " by ing the ons een the are its so as to ate a new ble ern of ity .
the ain nce rom a nal ter ory is hat rns ich are not ive do not ist ere .
icy can be re - ted use the ion ths een its ave een ged ely , but ach ion gth is ved in ing any rns , so it is ble to int to a lar ace ere the ory for a lar tem is red .
one way of ing out ted ies is in rms of a ery rge set of ble nce les .
ach ive nit nts a " cro - ure " of an tem , and the ion ths and for ble ces een cro - res .
any lar ern of ity of the its ill sfy ome of the " cro - ces " and ate ers .
a ble ern of ity is one hat tes die ble cro - ces ess han any of the ing rns .
a new ble ern can be ted by ing the nce les so hat the new ern tes hem ess han its ors .
his iew of ory kes it ear hat ere is no arp ion een ine ory and ble ion .
a ine ory is a ern hat is ble use the nce les ere ied hen it red ore .
a " ion " is a ern hat is ble use of the way the nce les ave een ied to ore ral ent ous rns , and so far as the ect is ned , his may be ble rom the eal ing .
the ing of die ion een cal all and ion or ble ion ems to be tic of man ory ( ett , 23; ser , 123 ) .
the ive ure of man ory is ing nly use it cts ith the ard ors we use .
we end to ink hat a ory tem uld ork by ing ral ies of ems and hen ing the red opy , as in a ing net or a cal ter ase .
uch ems are not
if we iew ory as a ess ich cts a ern of ity hat nts the ost ble tem ich is ent ith the ven ues , we eed ome tee hat it ill rge on the ion of the tem hat est its the ion , ugh it ght be ble to mes get a ood but not mal fit .
it is asy to ine his ing , but it is der to ake it lly ork .
one ent ach to his lem is to use cal ics to yze the ior of ups of ing tic its ( ton , ski & ley , 123 ) .
the sis ees hat the ter an tem its the ion , the ore ely it is to be ced as the ion .
123 : ity and ion
hen a new tem is red , the ons in the ion ths ust not ipe out ing ems .
his can be ved by ing a ery rge ber of hts ery tly .
if the ons arc all in the ion hat lps the ern hat is ing red , ere ill be a acy ect : the tal elp for the ded ern ill be the sum of all die all ate ons .
for ted rns , ver , ere ill be ery tle fer of ect use ome of the ons ill elp and ome ill der .
ead of all the all ons ing her , hey ill nly cel out .
his ind of cal ing ins ost ted ory els , but ere arc any ons of the sic dea ( see ton and son , 123 ) .
it is ble to ent nce her by ing nal rns of ity for the ous ems to be red .
ver , his tes one of the ost ing ies of ted ons : hey lly ive ise to ons .
if the ask is ply to ber ely a set of ted ems , the ion cts are ful and arc led nce .
but ion is lly a it ows us to eal ely ith ons hat are lar but not cal to sly ced ons .
ple are ood at ing wly red dge .
if you arn a new act out an ect , our ons out her lar cts end to nge .
if , for ple , you arn hat ees ike ons you ill bly ise our ate of the ity hat las ike ons .
in a ork hat ses rhc new dge out ees ted ons , his ind of ion is tic .
is ted by ing ome of the ion ths so as to ter the sal cts of the ted ern of ity hat nts ees .
123 the ons lly nge the sal cts of all lar ity rns .
so if the ion of las is a lar ity ern ver the ame set of its , its sal cts ill be ged in a lar way .
the ery est ted eme uld ent the ept of ion and the ept of zee by ive ity rns ver the ery ame set of its .
it uld hen be ard to ent mps and ons at the ame ime .
his lem can be ved by ing ate les for ach ble ole of an tem hin a ger ure .
mps , for ple , are the " ent " of the ing and so a ern ing mps ies the " ent " ule and the ern ing ons ies the " ent "
the nal ure of his ern may lso nge .
ere is ays a ice een ing the hts on the ing ons and ing the ern elf so hat ent ing ons ome ant .
ges in the ern elf ter its ity to her rns and eby ter how ion ill cur in ure .
it is lly uch der to ure out how to nge the ern hat nts an tem han it is to ure out how to nge the ing ons so hat a lar ern ill ave the red cts on her art of the ork .
ule ( sec ure 123 ) .
ach ule can ave ive rns for all the ous ems , so his eme oes not lve cal ons of ems .
hat is zed is the ole .
if you tly arn hat ons and ans do not ike ons our ate of the ity hat las ike ons ill all , ugh it may ill ain her han it was lly .
sly , the ion of cts sts hat ing ons is a iar irk of ees .
a tem hat ses ted ons ill lly ive at iis ion , ded hat the ive rns hat ent the ous pes arc ted to one her in a lar way hat is hat ore fic han ust ing lar to one her : ore eds to be a art of ach ete ern hat is cal for all die ous pes .
in her rds , the oup of its sed for the ted ons ust be ded nto two sub - ups , and all the tis pes ust be ted by the ame ern in the rst sub - oup , but by ent rns in the ond sub - oup .
the ern of ity ver the rst oup nts the ype of the tem , and the ern ver the ond sub - oup nts nal " cro - res " hat ate ach nce of the ype rom the her ces
hen the tem rns a new act out ees , it lly has no way of ing her the act is rue of all pes or is ust a rty of ees .
the ous egy is orc to ify the ths of the ons ing rom all the ive its , so hat the new dge ill be tly a rty of pes in ral , and tly a rty of ver res ish mps rom her pes .
if it is tly ned hat her pes do not ike ons , ons ill be ade in die rse ion so *at the ion out ons is no ger ted ith the ern hat is mon to all pes .
the dge out ons ill hen be ted to the sub - ern hat hes mps rom her pes .
if it had ned out hat ons and ans had lso ked ons , the ons in the hts ing rom the sub - ern ing pes uld ave ced one her , and the dge uld ave ome ted ith the sub - ern red by all pes her han ith the rns hat ish one ape rom her .
a ery ple ion of his ory of ion has een ted in a ter ion ( ton , 123 ) .
it rks , but as ith all ons , any led and ary ons had to be ade to uce a ing tem .
ere is an ous ion of the dea hat the ion of an tem is sed of two rts , one ha* nts the ype and her hat nts the way in ich his lar nce ers rom
any set of the cro - res can be ide - od to ine a ype one set ght be mon to all pes , and a ent ( but
ing ) set ght be mon to all ets .
his ows an tem to be an nce of any ent pes sly .
ure 123 : in his ied eme ere are two ent les , one of ich nts the ent and the her the ent .
to ate the act hat ees ike ons , the ern for ees in one ule ust be ted ith the ern for ons in the her ule .
ips her han " ing " can be ted by ing a ird oup of its ose ern of ity nts the hip .
his ern ust hen " ate " the ons een the ent and ent ups .
ton ( 123 ) bes one way of ing his ing by ing a rth oup of its .
ers of the ame ype .
ost all pes are ves ces of ore ral pes , and his can be ted by ing the ern hat nts the ype nto two sub - rns , one for the ore ral ype of ich his ype is an nce , and the her for die res iat ate iis lar ype rom ers ces of the ame ral ype .
hus die ion een a ype and an nce can be ted by the hip een a set of its and a ger set hat des it .
ice hat the ore ral the ype , the ler the set of its sed to ode it .
as the ber of rms in an ion ets ler , the ing nal set ets ger .
in a ork hat ses cal ons , it is ess ous how to do ion .
ven hat ees ike ons , the ous way of ing the new dge is by ing the ths of ons ing to the zee nit .
but iis oes not lly nge ons hat ong to die lla nit .
so tra ses ust be ked to ent ion in a ist eme .
one nly sed hod is to low ion to ead rom a cal nit to her its hat ent lar pts ( ian , 23; ins and tus , 123 ) .
hen hen one ept nit is ted , it ill lly ate its ors and the so any dge red in the ons ing rom ese ors ill be lly ive .
any ons of his sic dea ave een ied ( vin , 23; and , 23; man , 123 ) and ave een own to be ite ive .
it is ard to ake a ean ion een ems ich use cal ons lus ing ion and ems ich use ted ons .
in oth ses die ult of ing a ept is iat any ent are its are ive .
the ain nce is iat in one ase ere is a lar ual are nit hat cts as a " dle " ich kes it asy to ach ely nal ies ike the ame of the ept .
it is ely ous hat it is der to ach an ary ame to a ted ern han it is to ach it to a gle nit .
as we all sec in ion 123 , uch ons are not to
123 : ies of ted ory
nce the 123 ' s , ere ave een a rge ber of ter ons of ted ory mes .
any ent ons of the ame sic eas ave een red tly .
his ion pts to uce ome der nto the ion of els by ing hem in a ary ree ith the ost sic ons est the oot ( see ure 123 ) .
the rue ace of els has a uch her ure of ies and ces han can be sed by a ree , but it ' s a ent ion .
any of the ons eal ith the ure of the put - put ons sed for the ual its .
a ull ion of the ous ons ill ear in art , ton and and ( in ess ) .
ore by ing
een are its .
ore by 123 a tor hat has nry as any nts as
a gle tem .
non - ear ion )
haw et
ity els j
. ity els j
son & zer , 123
ion ion \
l ity els j
' ete ses .
& ley , 123
iew , 123 ft
ure 123 : a ion of ome ted ory els .
a few les of ach ype of del are ven .
123 : rse ing
his ion ers the ber of its iat arc red to ode res ely .
the ral ult is a ing one .
if you ant to ode res ely ing as few its as ble , it ays to use its iat arc ery ely ned , so iat ach ure tes any ent its and ach nit is ted by any ent res .
a fic ure is icn ded by a ern of ity in any its icr han by a gle ive nit , so rse ing is a orm of ted ion .
to eep die ics ple , we all ume hat the its ave nly two ues , on and off . 123 we all lso ore the ics of the tem use the ion of est , for the ime ing , is how any its it kes to ode res ith a ven acy .
we art by ing the ind of ure hat can be ely ied by ing a ype ( e . g .
ine - ent , ner , dot ) and the ues of ome ous ers iat ish it rom her res of the ame ype ( e . g .
ion , ion , ize . ) for ach ype of ure ere is a ace of ble ces .
ach ous ter nes a ion of the ure ace , and ach lar ure nds to a int in the ace .
for res ike ots in a ane , the ace of ble res is two - nal .
for res ike ped , ted dge - nts in 123 - d ace , the ure ace is six - nal .
we all art by ing 123 - d ure ces and hen ize to her ies .
ose hat we ish to ent the ion of a gle dot in a ane , and we ish to eve igh acy out ing too any its .
we ine the acy of an ing eme to be the ber of ent ngs hat are ted as the dot is ved a ard nce ugh the ace .
one ood ing eme uld be to ide the its nto an x oup and a y oup , and ate ach nit to ing a lar x or y val as own in ure 123
a ven dot uld hen be ded by ity in two its , one rom ach oup , and the acy uld be nal to the ber of its sed .
ely , if two ots ave to be ded at the ame ime the hod aks own .
the two ots ill ate two its in ach oup , and ere ill be no way of ing , rom the ive its , her the ots ere at ( xl , yl ) and ( 123 , 123 ) or at ( xl , 123 ) and ( 123 , yl ) .
his is led the ing lem .
it ses use the ion oes not ify hat oes ith hat .
in a nal ter it is asy to lve the ing lem .
we ply ate two rds in the ter ory .
ach ord ins a air of tes hat go her as tes of one dot , and
lar nts ply ith lti - ued ity els , but it is ant not to low ity le - cls to ave ary ion ,
use his kes it ble to ent an ite unt of ion in a gle ity vel .
o 123 o o o o o
ure 23a : a ple way of ing two ups of ary its to ode the ion ot a int in a 123 - d ace .
the ive its in the x and y ups ent the x and y tes .
o o 123 o o o 123 o
ure 23b : hen two nts ust be ded at the ame ime , it is ble to ell ich x ate oes ith ich y ate .
the ing ion is ded by the act hat the two ate ues arc ing in the ame ord ( ich lly ans hey arc ing in ing ory ons ) .
in ' lel rks , it is uch der to lve the ing lem .
one ach is to set ide , in nce , one nit for ach ble ion of x and y ues .
his nts to ing the ane ith a rge ber of all , non - ing nes , and ing a nit to ach one .
a dot is icn ted by ity in a gle nit so iis is a cal ion .
it is uch ess ent han die ous eme use die acy is nly nal to the are oot of die ber of its .
in ral , for a k - nal ure ace , die cal ing lds an acy nal to the k th oot of die ber of its .
ing igh acy is hus ery ive .
the use of one nit for ach ate ure may be a ble ing if a ery rge ber of res are ted on ach ion , so hat a rge ion of the its are ive .
ver , it is a ery ent ing if nly a ery all ion of the ble res are ted at nce .
the age unt of ion yed by the ate of a ary nit is 123 bit if the nit is ive alf the ime , and it is uch ess if the nit is nly ely ive .
123 it uld ore be ore ent to use an ing in ich a ger ion of the its ere ive at any ent .
his can be one if we don the dea iat ach ate ure is ted by ity in a gle nit
ose we ide the ace nto ger , ing nes and ign a nit to ach one .
for ity , i all ume iat the nes arc lar , hat eir ers ave a orm dom ion out the ace , and hat all the nes sed by a ven ing eme ave the ame ius .
the ion of est is how ely a ure is ded as a ion of the ius of the nes .
if we ave a ven ber of its at our sal is it ter to use rge nes so hat ach ure int lls in any nes , or is it ter to use all nes so hat ach ure is ted by ity in wer but ore ely ned its ?
the acy is nal to the ber of ent ngs hat are ted as we ove a ure int ong a ght ine rom one ide of the ace to the icr .
ery ime the ine ses the ary of a one , the ing of the ure int ges use the ity of the nit ing to hat one ges .
so the ber of ate res ong the ine is ust ice the ber of nes hat the ine tes .
123 the ine tes ery one ose ter ies hin one ius of the ine ( see ure 123 ) .
his ber is nal to the ius of the nes , r , and it is lso nal to eir ber , n .
nce the
unt of ion yed by a nit hat has a ity of p of ing on is
ems ise if you ter and ave a one out ing her one ers in een .
you ert to the ame ing as
ore .
his ect is ble if the nes are nse ugh for ere to be any nes ing ach int in the ace .
ure 123 : the ber of one ies hat are cut by the ine is nal to the ber of one ers hin one one ius of the ine .
acy , a is ted to the ber of nes and to eir ius as ows :
a a nr
in ral , for a k - nal ace , the ber of nes ose ers lie hin one ius of a ine ugh the ace is nal to the ume of a k - nal per - der of ius r .
his ume is ual to the gth of the der ( ich is xed ) mes its k - 123 nal oss - nal rea ich is nal to r* " 123
nce , the acy is ven by :
so , for ple , ing the ius of the nes ses by a tor of 123 the ear acy ith ich a six - nal ure ike a ped ted 123 - d dge is ted .
the ive dea hat ger nes ead to ier ons is ely ong , use ted ons old ion uch ore tly han cal nes .
ven ugh ach ive nit is ess fic in its ing , the ion of ive its is far ore fic .
123 ice lso hat ith rse ing the acy is nal to the ber of its , ich is uch ter han ing nal to the k* oot of the ber .
its hat ond to lex res in pic aps in ual tex ten ave rly rge ive lds .
his is ten ted as the rst tep on the way to a ion ant ion .
ver , it may be hat *he ion of the rge lds is not to eve ion nce but to int ely ere the ure is !
ons on rse ing
so far , nly the ges of rse ing ave een ned , and its tic cts ave een red .
ere arc a ber of ons ich use the rse ing egy to eak own hen die " ive lds " ome too rge .
one ous ion urs hen the lds ome ble in ize to the ole ace .
his ion is lly of tle est use her , ore ere , ems ise ore the ive lds ome his rge .
rse ing is nly ive hen ti^ . c res hat ust be ted arc ely rse .
if any ure - nts are ded her , ach ive eld ill ain any res and the ity ern in the rse ded its ill not ate een any ive ons of ure nts .
123 hus ere is a ion / acy ade - off .
rse ing can ive igh acy for the ers of res ded hat res arc ely ced so hat igh ion is not lso red .
as a ugh ule of umb , the ter of the ive lds uld be of the ame der as the ing een sly ent ure - nts
the act hat rse ing nly rks if the res are rse uld be ing , ven hat its age ver a cal ing is hat it ses die ion ity of die its ore tly by ing ach nit ive ore ten .
if the res are so nse iat the its uld be ive for out alf die ime ing a cal ing , rse ing can nly ake ngs rse .
a ond jor ion on the use of rse ing ems rom die act hat die ion of a ure ust be sed to ect her ons .
ere is no int ing rse ing if die res ave to be ded as ity in ely ned its ore hey can ave the ate cts on her ons .
if we ume iat the ect of a ted ion is the sum of the cts of the ual ive its hat ute the ion , ere is a ong ion on the ces der ich rse ing can be sed ely .
rby res ill be ded by lar ets of ive its , and so hey ill bly end to ave lar cts .
dly ing , rse ing is nly ful if the red ect of a ure is the age of die red cts of its ors .
at a ine ugh ale his is rly ays rue for ial sks .
the ale at ich it aks own nes an per mit on the ize of the ive lds .
123 lf the its are wed to ave ger ity els hat ect the ber of ure nts ing hin eir lds , a few rby
nts can be ted , but not any .
123 3it is ing hat any of the ric ual ons ate ons een res at a nce uch ter han the nty in the cts dge of the ion of a ure .
his is ust hat uld be ted if rse ing is ing sed to ent lex res ely .
her ion is hat ver rse ded ons act , ere is a ncy for the ess to ase .
to act iis ncy , it is bly ary to ave ral ion ing hin ach ion
rse ing and ier sis
ere is an ate ogy een rse ing and ier sis .
der , for ple , the lem of ing the ise ime at ich a ick urs ing ier sis .
a gle ick of ise ins wer at any ent ies .
to ode its ise ral ion it is ent to ode die low ncy ion ely .
the igh ies are nly ded for ing ely ced cks .
a ard way to act the low ncy ion is to ass die ick ugh a low - ass ter ich urs it in ime and hen to ple the red ick at lar als .
the use of rge ive lds in rse ing is the log of the ing ess , and the ter nts of the lds arc die log of die ple nts .
the ion hat the ive eld ter ust be ble ith the ing een res is the log of die ing rem ich tes hat the ear ion een ple nts ust not eed alf the gth of the est gth nts wed ugh the ing ess .
the ogy is not ect , ver , use a ier ing is lly sed to ent a ous ion her ian a ber of ete ure nts , and ach ent in die ier ing is a eal - ued ber icr han a set of ary ion els .
rse ing and nal ata - res
in a nal ter , any ece of the ral ose ory can be sed for any ata - ure .
his ows the ter to get by ith uch ess ory han uld be red if it had to set ide , in nce , a ial ece of ory for ach ble ata - ure .
the omy is ble use , on any one ion , nly a ery all ion of all the ble ata - res eed to be ent , so the ery ame ece of ory can be sed for ent ata - res on ent ons .
in a ork in ich the dge is red in the ion ths , it is uch der to ake its and for ent ngs on ent ons .
to be ive as a ion , ity in a nit ust ave the ght sal cts on her ons , so ess the ths of its ing ons can be ged dly , the " ing " of a nit not ily be ged .
rse ing ows the ame nit to be sed to elp ent any ent res at ent mes out ing the ion ths .
the ter of the ive eld is hat oes the ork of
his sue res her rch .
ing up the ace of ble res nto all nes .
123 on any one ion , ost of the ter of a ven nit ill be ant use the her ive its ill ady ave ted the ure rly ely and so it ill be own not to be ear ost of the ter .
ver , hat art of ine ter ich cts the ual ion of nty eft by the her its ill act to ase the acy , use the ate of the nit ill ate her the ure lls ide or ide of his art of the ter ( sec ure 123 ) .
on ent ons , ent rts of the ter ill be ing the ork .
his ity to use the ame nit in ent ays on ent ons is a all tep rds the ble use of nal ity hat kes nal ers so ful .
if a nit has a ive eld ith a rge ter , it may do ent ork on ent ons .
the nal ion of the nit in ing own the ise ers of a ure int nds on the nge of nty eft by the her its .
ite ent rts of the ter of nit a are ant on ent ons .
one ous ess of rse ing is hat its ose lds ave a rge lap end to ave hly ted tes .
his is ent .
to ize the acy , the ual its uld ave ted ive lds , so hat ity in one nit des no ion out ity in her its .
his is ust hat is ved by the ard ary ion of ous ies .
ely , ary ons are ult to use in ems ere all the dge is in the ons use the ive eld of the ast ant git is ery ted , ich lly kes it ard to ore ful dge in the ths of the ons ing rom hat nit
hat is why the acy is nal to the ude of the ter .
ion to non - ous ces
the ple ing rse ing can be zed to non - ous ces by ing of a set of ems as die ent of a ive eld .
a cal ion ses one nit for ach ble tem .
a ted ion ses a nit for a set of ems , and it tly des a lar tem as the ion of die ets hat ond to the ive its .
in die ain of ial res crc is lly a ery ong ity : ets of res ith lar ter ues eed to ave lar cts on her ons .
rse ing is ent use it ows his ity to be sed in die ion ths .
in her ins , the ies are ent , but the ncy nts arc the ame : it is ter to ote a nit to a set of ems han to a gle tem , ded the set is sen in uch a way hat hip of die set ies ing out hip of ier ets .
his ion can hen be red as a ion gth .
it is , of rse , a ery ult rch lem to ide ich lar ets of ems uld ond to lly , a set uld be sen so iat hip of his set has ong ons for ips of her ets iat arc lso ded by ual its .
the ity to ver uch ets is ial if ted ons arc to be ive , but his ort is not ned ith the ing lem .
the ted der is red to ton , ski & ley ( 123 ) ere a iod of ing ood ets is bed in ail .
123 : ing an ary ing een two ins
his ion ows how a ted ion in one oup of its can use an ate ted ion in her oup of its .
we der die lem of ing an ary ing een ons in the two ups , and we ake as an ple the ion een the ual orm of a ord and its ing .
the son for ing an ary ing is hat his is the ase in ich cal ons eem ost ful .
if ted ons are ter ven in his ase , hen hey are nly ter in ses ere ere are ing ies hat can be red by lar ons een its in one oup and its in her .
if we ict ves to ono - mic rds , the ing rom ngs of mes nto ngs ars to be ary in the nse hat ing hat ome ngs of mes ean ocs not elp one ict hat a new ing ans .
123 his ess in the ing rom mes to ngs is hat
123 vcn for ono - mic rds ere may be lar nts hat ave ted ing .
for ple , rds ing ith msn m lly ean ing ant to do ith the ips or ose ( eer , arl , ger ) , and rds ith ong els are ore ely to and for rge low ngs han rds ith ort els ( rge off , nal ion ) .
uch of wis rol ' s try ics on uch cts .
ves ity to els hat ave cit ord its .
it is ous hat ary ngs can be ted if ere arc uch its .
a eme ing tes tly one ord nit , and his tes ver ing we ish to ate ith it ( sec ure 23a ) .
the ics of lar eme ngs can hen be ely ent use hey arc ted by ate ord its .
ere is one of the tic ion hat is tic of ted ons .
it is not at all ous hat ary ngs can be ted in a tem ere the ate yer of its des the ord as a ted ern of ity ead of as ity in a gle cal nit .
the ted ive ars to ave a ous ack .
the ect of a ern of ity on her ons is the ned ult of the ual cts of the ive its in the ern .
so lar rns end to ave lar cts .
it ars hat we are not ree to ake a ven ern ave ver ect we ish on the ing ons , out eby ing the cts hat her rns ave .
his ind of ion ars to ake it ult to ent ary ngs rom ted ons of rds nto ing ons .
i all now how hat ese ons are ong , and hat ted ons of rds can ork tly ell and may ven be ore ent han gle
ure 23b ows a ree - red tem in ich eme / ion its eed nto " ord - set " its ich , in urn , eed nto " tic " or " eme " its .
for ity , we all ume hat ach nit is her ive ( ese ons can be xed out or ive , and hat ere is no ack or oss - alk .
the ent ) .
a ord - set nit is ted ver eme / ion its des a ord in a lar set the set uld be all the our - ter rds ing ith " he " , for ple , or all the rds ing at ast two " t m , s .
all hat is red is hat it is ble to ide her a ord is in the set by ing a ple est to the ted eme / ion its .
so , for ple , the set of all rds ing " ice " is not wed as a ord - set 123 ing to ure 23b , the ion is her it is ble to ent an ary set of ons een eme / ion ors and eme ors hen the ord - set its are ach ted by ore han one ord .
it ill be ent to der ust one of the any ble fic els .
let us ume hat an ive ord - set nit des ive put to all the eme its hat cur in the ing of any ord in die ord - set let us lso ume hat ach eme nit has a ble old hat is lly ted to be ust
the ern of
els of his ype , and ely ted nts , ave een zed by haw ( 123 ) , son ( nal ion ) , and by
vid ser ( hed hop alk , 123 )
123 ere is an cit ion hat ord ngs can be ted as ets of mes .
his is a ous sue .
ere ars to be a ulf een the ial iew in ich a ing is a set of res and the ist iew in ich the ;ts ips to her ngs .
ion 123 ses one way of ing ese ing of a ord can nly be ned in rms of two ews by ing ted ons to be ilt out of a ber of ent ets of ive res .
ure 23a : a ent of a ree yer ork .
the tom yer ins its hat ent lar mes in lar ons hin the ord .
the dle yer ins its hat ize ete rds , and the top yer ins its hat ent tic res of the ing of the ord .
his ork ses cal ons of rds in the dle yer .
ure 23b : the top and tom ers are the ame as in ure 23a , but the dle yer ses a ore ted ion .
ach nit in his yer can be ted by the mic ion of any one of a ole set of rds .
the nit hen des put to ery tic ure hat urs in the ing of any of the rds hat ate it .
nly ose ord - ets ing the ord " cat " are own in his ple .
ice hat the nly tic res ich ive put rom all ese ord - ets are the tic res of cat
tly ess han the ber of ive ord - set its .
nly eme its hat are ing put rom ery
ive ord - set nit ill icn ome ive .
all the mes of the ect ord ill be ted , use ach of ese mes ill cur in the ing of one of the rds in the ive ord - ets .
ver , nal mes may lso be ted use , ust by nce , icy may ive put rom ery ive ord - set nit .
for a eme to ive ess put han its old , ere ust be at ast one ive ord - set hat oes not ain any ord ich has die eme as art of its ing .
for ach ive ord - set the ity , / , of iis ing is :
/ = ( l - p ) < * - d
ere p is the ion of rds hat ain the eme and w is the ber of rds in die ord - set of the ord - set nit the son for the erm w - 123 is hat the eme is ady med not to be art of the ing of the ect ord , so ere are nly w - 123 ing rds hat uld ave it in eir ing .
ume iat hen a ord is ded at die mic vel it tes u its at the ord - set vel .
ach eme hat is not art of the ord ' s ing has a ity / of ing to ive put rom ach ord - set nit .
the ity , / hat all of esc ord - set its ill ide put to it is ore
/ = ( l - 123 "
by ion , his ity of a " lse ive " eme ces to ero hen w is 123
ble 123 ows the lue of / for ous ons of ues of p , w , and w .
ice hat if p is ery all , / c an ain ble ven if w is ite rge .
his ans hat ted ons in ich ach ord - set nit tes in the ion of any rds , do not ead to ors if the tic res are ely rse in die nse iat ach ord ing ins nly a all ion of the tal set of mes .
so the ord - set its can be rly non - fic ded the eme its are rly fic ( not red by too any ent ord ngs ) .
ome of the ies in the ble ake it ear hat for ome ues of p , ere can be a ble nce of ror ven ugh the ber of ord - set its is bly ess han the ber of rds ( the tio of rds to ord - set its is w / u ) .
the ple bed ove kes any ing ons .
for ple , ach ord - set nit is
123 x 123 ~ 123 123 x 123 " 123
123 x 123 123 ~ n 123 x 123 " 123 123 x 123 " 123
123 x 123 " ' 123 x 123 123 " 123
. 123 123 x . 123 123 x
ble 123 : the ity , f , of a lse ive eme as a ion of the ber of ive ord - set its per ord , u , the ber of rds in ach ord - set , w , and the ity , p , of a eme ing art of a ord ing .
med to be ted to ery ant eme nit if any of ese ons ere ing , we uld not ord to ive the eme its a old ual to the ber of ive ord set its .
to low for ing ons we uld wer the old , but his uld ase the lse - ive ror ate .
ely , we uld ake ach ord - set nit eto the mes hat do not cur in any of its rds .
his eme is far ore ust nst ing ons , use the nce of one eto can be ted if ere are her tos ( non son , nal ion ) .
ere are two ore ing ons oth of ich ead to an ate of the ess of ted ons for the ary ing ask .
rst , the ons ume hat ere is no ine - ing ure for ing ome hts and ing ers to ove nce in the ses ere the ost ent ors cur .
ond , the ons ore oss - alk ong the mes .
if ach ord - ing is a iar ble ern of mes ere ill be a ong " ean - up " ect ich nds to ess ous mes as oon as the ern of ion at the eme vel is
tly ose to the iar ern for a lar ord - ing .
ons ong the mes lso ' ide an ion for the ity of a gle eme ing ( e . g .
" ank " ) to cit two ite ent ngs .
the " tom - up " ect of the ted ord - set its lps oth ets of mes , but as oon as " top - own " ors ive an age to one ing , the mes in the her ing ill be sed by ive ons at the eme vel ( oto and son , 123 ) .
as oon as ere is oss - alk ong the eme its and ine ing of ual hts to oid ent ors , the ely ght - ard tic sis ven ove t aks own .
to ive the oss - alk ime to ean up the put , it h ary to use an ive ure ead of the ple " ght - ugh " ing in ich ach yer ely nes die tes of all the its in the ent yer in a gle , ous tep .
ems ing oss - alk , ack , and ous ing nts are bly ore tic as els of the ain , but hey are lly ery ard to yze .
ver , ere is a ial ass of ese ore lex ems hat ves in a ble way and is ble of ing nds of rch and ing ior ( ton , ski & lcy , 123 ) .
it ses ing nts hat are tly tic .
gly , the use of tic nts kes ese rks ter at ing hes , ter at ing , and ier to yze .
a ple ork of his ind is sed to ate ome of die ims out die ity to " ean up " the put by ing ons ong eme its , and the ity to oid ors by ine ing the ate hts .
the ork ins 123 eme its , 123 ord - set its , and 123 eme its .
ere are no ect ons een eme and eme its , but ach ord - set nit is ted to all the eme and eme its .
the eme its are ded nto ree ets of ten , and ach ree - ter ord has one ive nit in ach oup of ten ( its can nly ave ity els of 123 or 123 ) .
the " ing " of a ord is sen at dom by ing ach eme nit to be ive ith a ity of 123 .
the ork own in ure 123 has ned to ted 123 ent eme ngs ith eir sen ngs .
ach ord - set nit is ved in the ion of any rds , and ach ord ves any
ton & ski ( in ess ) ibe the ils of the ing ure ich was sed to ate his ork and the rch ure ich was sed to tle on a set of ive mes hen ven the mic put ere we ply ize the ain lts of the ion .
ter a ong iod of ing , the ork was ble to uce the ect ern of mes 23% of the ime hen ven a mic put val of any one of the ord - set its ter the ing lly sed a ght ise in the ror ate for ral ent rds her han the ete oss of one ord
ure 123 : a act lay hat ows all the ion ths in a ree - yer ork ich can map 123 ent mic ngs nto the ing ons of ive tic res .
the top 123 ows of the lay arc the tic its , the dle two ows are the ate its , and the tom ree ows arc the eme its .
hin ach nit , the ack or ite obs how the ths of its ons to her its .
ile obs are ive ons , ack are ive , and the ude of a lob nts uie gth of the
ion .
fhe ive ion of a lob hin a nit tes the ive ion hin the ole ork of the her nit ved in the ion ( it is as if ach nit ned a tle map of the ole net ) .
all ion ths are the ame in oth ons , so ery gth is ted ice in his lay .
in the ion ere the ion een a nit and elf uld be yed , the old of the nit is own ( ack ans a ive old )
123 , 123 sts ith a ing ord - set nit cre ere 123 ors .
ome of csc ted of one or two ing or tra mes , but 123 of the ors ere tly die ern of mes of ome her ord .
his is a ult of the ive ons ong die eme its .
if die put ing rom die ord - set its is isy , die ean up ect may tle on a lar but ect ing .
his ect is ent of a non led eep xia ich urs ith ain nds of ain age in lts .
hen own a ord and ked to ead it , the ect ill mes say a ent ord ith a ery lar ing .
the ect ord mes has a ery ent und and ing .
for ple , hen own the ord " ach " the ect ght say " cot " ( see art & son ( 123 ) for ore ion out red xia ) .
tic ors of his ind eem rre use it ems as if the ect ust ave sed die cal tem ach in der to ake die lly ted ror , and if he can get to die cal tem why can ' t he say it ? ( ese cts may now and be ble to say the rds iat hey ead ) .
ted ons low us to nse ith the gid ion een ing a ord and not ing it .
in a ork hat has ned the ord " ach " , the mic ion of " ach " ill use ely the ght put to the eme its , and ons at the eme vel can ien use tly the ern of mes for cot .
her lly ing ect urs hen die ork rns ter it has een ged .
the ork was ged by ing ise to ery ion iat ved a ord - set nit .
his ced the nce rom 23% ect to 23% .
123 the ork was hen ned and it ted ery pid ing , uch ter ian its nal ate of ing hen its nce was 23% ect .
his pid ery ' was ted by a cal ent ich ows hat ere is ing ial out a set of ion ths hat is ted by ing ise to a ear - ect set the ing set is ery ent rom her ets of ion ths hat bit die ame nce , ( see ton & ski , in ess ,
an ven ore ing ect urs if a few of the rds are ted rom the ing .
the ror ate for ese rds is lly ced as the ing eds , ven ugh the her eme - eme ngs ave no sic ion to hem use all the ngs ere ted mly .
the " ous " ery of rds hat the ork is not own ain is a ult of the use of ted ons .
all the hts are ved in ing the set of the rds hat are own ing ing , and so the ded ise nds to be ved rom ery ght .
a eme hat sed a ate nit for ach ord uld not ave in his way , so one can iew ous ery of sed ems as a
123 123 t he ror ate was 23% her han 23% in his ple use
cts had ess ime to tle on the mal put
the ork was ced to ond ter , so the ive
ive ure of ted ons .
123 : ing new pts
any ble eme for ing dge ust be ble of ing vel pts hat uld not be ted at the ime die ork was lly red up .
a eme iat ses cal ons ust rst ake a ete ion out hen to orm a new ept , and enm it ust ind a are are nit hat has ble ons for ing the ept ved .
ing uch a nit may be ult if we ume hat , ter a iod of rly ent , new dge is ted by ing the ths of die ing ons her ian by ing new nes .
if ach nit nly has ons to a all ion of the ers , ere ill bly not be any its hat are ted to ust the ght her nes to ent a new ept .
for ple , in a ion of a ion its ach ted at dom to ten and ers , the nce of ere ing any nit hat is ted to a lar set of 123 ers is nly one in a ion .
in an mpt to cue cal ons rom his lem , ral ver mes ave een sed hat use two ses of its .
the its iat ond to pts arc not tly ted to one her .
ead , the ons are ted by ect ays ugh ral ers of ate its ( man , 23; man , 123 ) .
his eme rks use die ber of ial ays ugh the ate ers far eds the tal ber of cal ons .
if ere are k ers of its ach of ich has a fan - out of n ons to mly ted its in the ing yer , ere are n k ial ays .
ere is ost ain to be a way ing any two ept - its , and so the ate its ong his way can be ted to ing ose two ept - its .
ver , ese mes end up ing to ate ral ate its to ach ive ion , and nce the ion has red , all but one of the ual ons ing rom ach ate nit are ted .
the use of ral ate its to ate a gle ive ion may be ate in ing rks ing nts hat ave its ith ely all fan - out but it ems to be an ent way of ing the are of the ain .
the ems of ing a nit to and for a new ept and ing it up ely do not ise if we use ted ons .
all we eed to do is ify the ons een its so as to ate a new ble ern of ity .
if his is one by ing a rge ber of ons ery tly , the ion of a new ern eed not upt die ing ons .
the ult lem is to ose an ate ern for the new ept .
the cts of the new ion on ons in her rts of the tem ill be ned by the its hat are ive , and so it is ant to use a ion of ive its hat ave hly the ect cts .
ine - ing of the cts of the new ern can be
ved by tly ing the cts of the ive its it ins , but it uld be ise to ose a dom ern for a new ept , use jor ges uld hen be ded in die hts , and iis uld upt her dge .
lly , the ted ion hat is sen for a new ept uld be the one hat res the ast ion of hts to ake the new ern ble and to ake it ave the red cts on her ons .
lly , it is not ary to ate a new ble ern all in one tep .
it is ble for the ern to rge as a ult of ons on any ate ons .
his tes an ard lem hat a / scs ith cal ons : the tem ust ake a ete all - or - onc ion out hen to ate a new ept .
if we iew pts as ble rns hey are uch ess ete in ter .
it is ble , for ple , to ate one ble ern nto two ely ted but ent nts by ing ome of the hts tly .
ess we are wed to one the are its ( and all eir ons ) , his ind of ual ual ion is uch der to eve ith cal ons .
123 : ing ent ure
any tem ich pts to ent the nds of ual res hat ple use has to be ble of ing two ier ent nds of chy .
the rst is the " isa " chy hat tes pes to ces of ose pes .
the ond is die art / ole chy hat tes ems to die ent ems hat hey are sed of .
the ost ant ics of the isa chy are hat own ies of the pes ust be " ted " by the ces , and ies hat arc und to ply to all ces of a ype ust lly be ted to the ype .
in ion 123 we saw how the isa chy can be ted by ing the ted ion of an nce ude , as a art , the ted ion for the ype .
his nal ick lly lds the ost ant ics of the isa chy , but the ick can nly be sed for one ind of chy .
if we use the art / ole hip een rns of ity to ent the ype / nce hip een ems , it ars hat we not lso use it to ent the art / ole hip een ems .
we not ake the ion of the ole be the sum of the ons of its rts .
the ion of how to ent the hip een an tem and the ent ems of ich it is sed has een a jor ing ock for ies iat ate ted ons .
in the val , ist eme , a ole is a ode hat is ked by led rcs to the des for its rts .
but the ral net of the ted eme is hat ent ems ond to ive rns of ity in the ame set of its , so it ems as if a ole and its rts not oth be ted at the ame ime .
i can nly see one way out of his mma .
it ies on the act hat les are not ply the ums of eir
rts , icy arc sed of rts iat lay lar les hin die ole ure .
a ape , for ple , is sed of ler pes hat ave a lar ize , ion and ion ive to the ole .
ach ent ape has its own ial ole , and die ole ape is sed of a set of ape / ole irs .
123 rly , a ion is sed of cts iat upy lar tic les in the ole nal ure .
his sts a way of ing die hip een les and rts : the ity of ach art uld rst be ned ith its ole to uce a gle ern hat nts the ion of the ity and the ole , and hen the ted ion for the ole uld ist of the sum of the ted ons for esc ity / ole ons ( lus ome nal " ent " res ) .
123 his sal ers rom die ple dea iat die ion of the ole is the sum of the ons of its rts , use die rns sed to ent ity / ole ons arc ite ent rom die rns sed to ent the ies one .
hey do not , for ple , ain ese rns as rts .
lly , ere ust be an ess ath een the ion of an tem as a ole in its own ght and the ion of hat ame tem ing a lar ole hin a ger ure .
it ust be ble , for ple , to ate the ity / ole ion rom two ate , cit , ted rns one of ich nts the ity and the her of ich nts the ole .
it ust lso be ble to go the her way and ate the cit ons of the ity and ole rom the gle ned ion of the ity / ole ion ( see ure 123 ) .
the use of rns iat ent ity / ole ons ows the art / ole chy to be ted in the ame way as the ype / nce chy .
a ole is ply a lar nce of a ber of ore ral pes , ach of ich can be ned as the ype hat has a lar ind of art ing a lar ole ( e . g men ith den egs ) .
ial bol ing
if ent ure is ted in the way bed ove , ere is a ous sue out how any res can be ive at any one ime .
the ous way to ate the are is to use a oup of its for ach ble ole hin a ure and to ake die ern of ity in iis oup ent the ity of the ent hat is tly ing hat ole .
his ies hat nly one ure can be ted at a ime , ich is rly a ery ere ion .
ver , ple do eem to fer rom ong nts
ips een rts are ant as ell .
one age of tly ing ape / ole irs is hat it ows ent irs to ort ach her .
one can iew the ous ent ons hin an ect as ots and the pes of rts of an ect as the ers of ese ots .
dge of a ole ape can hen be ted by ive ons een the ous
see ton , 123 for a ion hat ses his nal que .
ure 123 : a tch of the tus hat ght be ary for ing ate ons of an ity and a ole nto a gle ern .
nly one ity and nly one ole can be idy ted at a ime use the ity and ole ups can ach nly ave one ern of ity at a ime .
ver , the ous ole ups low any ity / ole ons to be ded sly .
the all lar ols ent the ity of the ern of ity in the oup hat tly nts a ole to ine ich one of the any ole ups is tly ing ith the ity oup .
his ows the ity ing a lar ole to be " ead out " as ell as ing the rse ion of ing an ity and a ole .
on the ber of res of the ame ral ype hat hey can ess at nce .
to a rst ion , ple are ial bol ors ( ell , 123 ) .
the ity hat hey bit at his igh vel of ion is lly ing ven the ely lel ure of the ain , but it mes uch ier to and if we don our ist ons in vor of the ted ive ich ses the ism to ive ach ive ion a ery ich nal ure hat ows the ght nds of ion and ent - ity .
one ral net of the ial bol ing ach ( ell , 123 ) is the ity to cus on any art of a ure and to and hat nto a ole hat is ust as ich in ent as the nal ole of ich it was a art .
the ive ity to and rts of a ure for ely any els , and the rse ity to age up ole res nto a ced orm hat ows hem to be sed as nts of ger res is the nce of bol ing .
it ows a tem to ild res out of ngs hat fer to her ole res out ing hat ese her res be ted in all eir
in nal ter ons his ity is ved by ing ers .
ese are ery ent but hey end on the use of ses .
in a lel ork , we eed ing hat is lly ent to ary ers in der to ent bol ing .
his is cdy hat is ded by rns hat and for ity / ole ons .
hey low the ull ity of the art to be sed rom a ion of the ole and a ion of the ole hat the tem hes to cus on , and hey lso low cit ons of an ity and a ole to be ned nto a ess ome ion , so hat ral ity / ole ons can be ted sly in der to orm the ion of a ger ure .
ven a lel ork , ems can be ted by ity in a gle , cal nit , or by a ern of ity in a rge set of its ith ach nit ing a " cro - ure " of die tem .
ted ons are ent ver ere are ing ies ich can be red by ons ong cro - res .
by ing ach ece of dge as a rge set of ons it is ble to eve ful ies ike ent - ble ory and tic ion , and new ems can be ted out ing to ate new ons at the are vel .
in the ain of sly ing ial res it is ely asy to ide a cal sis of the ges and cks of ing ted ons .
ted ons eem to be ble for ing ely ary ngs use
ere is no ing ure and so ion nly ses ted nce .
ver , ven for iis ask , ted ons can be ade rly ent and hey bit ome lly ing cts hen ged .
ere are ral ery ard ems hat ust be ved ore ted ons can be sed ely .
one is to ide on the ern of ity iat is to be sed for ing an tem .
the ies een the sen ern and ier ing rns ill ine die nds of ion and nce hat cur .
the rch for ood rns to use is ent to the rch for the ing tes of the ain .
his ing lem is not sed ere .
the ted der is red to ton , ski & ley ( 123 ) .
her ard lem is to ify the hip een ted ons and ues sed in ial nce ike mas , or cal ral ons .
ing ial nce ams ave eat lty in dly ing the ema hat est its the ent ion .
lel rks fer the ial of dly ing a lot of dge to his est - fit rch , but his ial ill nly be zed hen ere is a ood way of ing mas in lel rks .
