his per bes two new ods for ing the lds of sed ges
of ten its .
the els low a ori ion out the ure of
the lds to be ned ith cal ata .
ate ing of the man -
lds ows its to be ted ing the ive ity ies der
the ive els .
one of the ods is ded in pal nts
sis , the her in tor sis .
oth ods are sed on lly ear ,
low - nal ons to the ing ata old .
nks ith her
ods hat del the old are sed .
a ard ive ach to git ion is to ain a ssi ( cid : 123 ) er to
put one of the ten ses sed on the put age .
the ssi ( cid : 123 ) er uld , for
nce , be a yer ard ral ork ( ) .
ver , it is lso ble
to ate by ( cid : 123 ) ing a ate ity ity del to ach ass and hen
ing the ass of the del hat gns the est ity to a est age
ive ity ach lly res ore ion ing ion , and
it can ote a lot of ers to ing cts of the age hat are ant
for ion , but it has ral ges :
( cid : 123 ) ing ing , ach del eed nly der ing les of its own
ass , ing an der of ude in ion .
if the els are ect ,
his ing is ved ith no ion in ive nce .
( cid : 123 ) ter ing , it is ble to add a new ass out ing the ous
( cid : 123 ) it is ble to ( cid : 123 ) t far ore ers ore ver ( cid : 123 ) ing urs use the
put ors ain uch ore ion han the ass bel .
ing
the ame ber of les in ach ass , a ass bel nly ins log
its so ach ple nly des : its of int on the ion hat
aps uts to ass els .
ver , it kes any ore its to ify the
put age , so ach ple des far ore int on the ers
one way to see why , is to ine a ble ook - up eme in ich ach put tor is mly
ped to a di ( cid : 123 ) ent ord of ory .
to ( cid : 123 ) t a ing set tly , we eed as any rds of
ory as ing les and ach ord nly eds ugh its to ify the ect bel .
of a ity del .
for the ( cid : 123 ) eal - ued ges we use , ; ing
les are su ( cid : 123 ) ent to ( cid : 123 ) t out ; ers .
( cid : 123 ) cts of the age hat are ant for ion een ses may
ess be ery ant for ing nal bad ges hat do not all
nto any of the ven ses .
ive ity ods ave a ral ion
ion hen all the ies are low .
( cid : 123 ) the ity els we ibe can be ( cid : 123 ) ted by ods ike lar lue de -
ion ( svd ) and ion - ion ( em ) hat are bly
ore e ( cid : 123 ) ent han ent ent .
we are not ing hat the ive ity ach is ily ter han the
ive ach , ust hat it is an ive rth ing .
ain ive ods can be een in rms of ive ies .
for in -
nce , nel ity ion ( ) , ( ) is a lar non - ric ing ech -
for his , the ity ity for a lar git is the ted sum of
a ion of nel ons .
the ons all ave the ame ape , but ach is
red on one of the rns in hat ass in the ing set .
ach nel ion
lly tes to , and the hts in the sum are lly =m , ere m is the
ber of the rns in the ing set , so the all nel ity ate is
tly sed .
ing ilt ten uch els , one for ach git ass , the ass
to ich a new age ngs is red by ing the ity der ach of the
els at the ion of the new age , and ing the one hat is the est
the nel ons are lly ric , lly ing , and ave un -
ded ent ( e . g a ian ) , hen ive ity ion mes cal
to est our ssi ( cid : 123 ) ion as the dth ter of the nel oes to ero .
his is use the del hat ins the nel ion est to the ata ill ,
in the mit , ave in ( cid : 123 ) ely her ity han any her del , ven if her els
ave any nel ons hat are ost as ose .
nel ity ors are ent els in the ase hat ere is ple ata ,
ple nal ime for nce ( it is e ( cid : 123 ) ely a ory - sed que ) ,
and in ich ere is tle a ori ion out the ure of the ata
ter two are not rue for ges of ten its .
we ght to ild ter
els for uch ges on the sis of uch ion .
lly ble tem -
tes ( ) , ( ) are one ple , and ave een own to del non - sed ges
of ers ell ( ) .
ely , hey are lso lly too ive
for mal use .
we ore ned to ian ded ear els , ich are
lly uch per but are lso ate for uch ges .
ard et al ( ) ted out the lly low - nal ear ure ing
ese ges .
ake the - nal ace of all ( sed ) ( cid : 123 ) ges and
der the set of ges of any lar git , say the git .
nce all
ges to the age of a rve its ity , his set ill ave ome ies
of a ace ( it ill tly be ous and di ( cid : 123 ) ble .
in lar , a ( cid : 123 ) ne
ons ( ons , ons , ngs , and ing ) as ell as ipu -
ons to the ess of the kes of a git rve its ity .
ing
the e ( cid : 123 ) ect on an age of all ( ie sub - xel ) ons ike ese sts hat
the ace is lly at ast nal and bly hat ore .
di ( cid : 123 ) ent
les of ill ely ate ted ous hes .
ard et al ( ) sed a
est our hod ( ich , as ted out , is ent to a ing ase of
a ive ity hod ) in the ace of ese nal nes , ere the dis -
nce een two nts in the ace is the est nce een the ing
nes in age ace .
ing his as the nce her han the ple ean
nce een two ges lly ved ion nce .
ely , rds que is ded on a est our hod , and
ore ion is ain lly ive .
we can ild uch per
els by ing ion rom any les out the cal ure of
the old in age ace ing a git .
ing ion in his way
uld ave the ded age of ing out ome of the ise in the ate
of its cal ure hat ses rom the ent ors hat ard sed to
act the nal ace .
we are lso not ted to nly the a ori
ons ted ove , but arn the cal ure rom the ing les ,
ich may ain her ces .
ugh the old ems to be lly
ear and low nal , ere is no son for the old to be lly ear .
di ( cid : 123 ) ent les of its , and ven a ( cid : 123 ) ne ons hat are not con ( cid : 123 ) ned to a
sub - xel ime , ill ead to di ( cid : 123 ) ent cal ear hes .
we ere ore ced
to mix her ers of ear els for ges of ach git , ie to use a ded
ear ion to the ace ( ( cid : 123 ) ure ) ( ) , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) .
the ure
is ( cid : 123 ) t ing her an ion - ion ( em ) sed thm ( ) or the k -
ans thm , ich is lly a ing ase of em .
the ion ( e ) ase
ves ing to the ear els ies for the ing es; the
ion ( m ) ase ves re - ing the ers of the ear els
in the ght of his ent .
his nce is not a ric nce it oes not sfy the gle ity .
gni ( cid : 123 ) ant nce nts can be ved by ing ous dup sms ,
for ple ( )
ure : ion of how a hly non - ear one - nal ace ( eft nel )
is red by lly ear els ( ght nel )
a ent ork to ibe our els mes rom the ion of ral
ets led ers .
an der is a ard ral ork ith a
gle den yer hat pts to uct its put ies at its put .
ton & mel ( ) and mel ( ) how how to and the hip een
cal ing and ers .
the ode for an ple is ven by the
ion of the ons of the den its and the put ror , ich is the
ion ary to uct the put ven ese den nit ons
and the hts een the den its and the put its .
the ost of his ode
is ted in its , and is sed on cal ior ons for the ons
of the den its and the ion ors .
the ain ink een ing
and ers is hat his ost ion can be red as the ive log
ity of the ata der a lar ive del ( so mum ood
del ( cid : 123 ) ing and mum ost are ent .
we ive ost ons low ich
ude or ude ous nts of the ode ost .
two ell hed ear els are pal nts sis ( pca ) and fac -
tor sis ( fa ) .
ing pca res ing ore han lar lue com -
ion of the nce rix of the les .
ing fa is lly
ore ing .
ver , fa o ( cid : 123 ) ers a der cal del of les , and
one ght ect it to be ore pro ( cid : 123 ) ent .
ion ii bes pal nts
is; ion iii bes tor is; ion iv ows how to ate
ome of the ent ion hat ard et al ( ) use to uch ood e ( cid : 123 ) ct; and
ion v ows how the els orm on a rge - ale git ion ask .
ii res of pal ent ers
the r pal nts of n les xi = fx
ng of n - nal ata ; : : : x
( med , out oss of ity , to ave ean ) are the r nal ons
in n - ace ich ure the est ion in the les .
put her way , if
the les are ted nto r - nal ces and the ing nce of
the ted les is red , hen the pal nts de ( cid : 123 ) ne a ace
uch hat his red nce is the est .
ely , ing hat the
les ome rom a ate ian ion , the ion yed
by the ude of the ons nto ese r ons is the est
ies , her ith the nal ity of ing pca ( ing
no ore han ( cid : 123 ) ing the top r ors of the nce rix of the les )
ake it an ous ate for the ear del in the ure .
the r pal
nts de ( cid : 123 ) ne the cal ace med for the old .
in the ext of an
der , the ons of the put ong the r ons are the ies of
the den its hi = fh
rg for put ern i .
his can be ten as :
hi = rxi
as sed ove , the ies of the den its are art of the ode for an
ple .
the ies of the put its are ted by a ear ion of
the den its :
yi = ghi
the her art of the ode is the di ( cid : 123 ) nce een the age elf and ese put
ies .
the ing red ion ror ( e
i = kxi
) is a ure
of how ell the del ( cid : 123 ) ts the age ( the ler it is , the ter the age was
as ned ove , her an em or a k - ans ure is sed to ign the
n les ong m di ( cid : 123 ) ent pca els ( we all ese sub - els ) for ach
ing the e tep , ity for ach ern is ned gst the
sub - ls; ing the m - tep pca is med , ing the ers of a sub -
del ely to ise the ion ost of the ata for ich it is
ble .
in the oft , em ion , the ity of sub - del a for ple
i is ted as q
) ere e
b is the red ion
ror and ( cid : 123 )
cts ike a ure ter .
in the ard , k - ans ion ( ich
can be wed as the ing ase as ( cid : 123 )
! ) , ple i is ted to the sub - del
a for ich e
a is est .
ote hat the m tep is ore ted and ful
han ust ing the ans of ose les for ich ity is ken .
lly , the k - ans ion of the thm is :
ose ial nts ong the sub - els for ach ple in the
ing set ( lly at dom , or ing les rom the ial ata ) ;
tly ing ere is a ird ent , the del - ost , ich des the ost of ing
the hts in ach del ( ) .
we ume hat his ost is the ame for all els .
orm pca ely for ach sub - el;
ign rns to the sub - del hat cts hem the st;
top if no rns ave ged sub - del , ise urn to tep .
for the oft ion , in tep , the les are ted for the pca by the re -
ies , and nce is sed by ing the nge in the all
log - ood ( ich is ent to ive ode - ost ing non mal cod -
ing ) of the ata at ach ion .
his log - ood is sed on a del for the
age der ich the ( tly sed ) log ity of age i is ( ) :
a log q
nus his ity can be red as a ost ion for ing the ign -
nts of ies and the pal nts .
the lue of ( cid : 123 )
her , her ure tes a set of cal ear els for ach git .
ven a est ern we ate the ion ors nst all the els for
all the its .
we use a ard hod for ssi ( cid : 123 ) ion ( ing the ity of
the ern nly by the del ich cts it est .
the ute ity of the
est ion and the ive ies of tly sub - mal ons
are ble to ect ous ses .
hat lar ods ave een sed for ing ges of ips for lip ing
( ) , oon - ike ngs ( ) , git and ter ion ( ) , ( ) and ata
iii res of tor ers
ely , as ted ove , pca oes not ide a ect cal del for
the ges use it is not rly ble .
nts of the age hat
lie in the ons of the pal nts ate no ion ror ,
and ore can be ded at ill out ing the ost .
gio & ung ( )
ted ing as a ent of the ost a ity hey led the sed
bis nce in the ace of the pal nts .
his is :
ere c is a ant , h
as is the ity of den nit s for ple i of sub -
del a and ( cid : 123 ) as is the lue ted ith hat ent .
his nts to
ing a ero ean per - cal ian ior ned in the ion of the
pal nts .
his ior is sed to ode the ion of the den its
in the der .
ing the ive ing in the all ost ion for
the red ion ror e
a and the ing ost is hat ary .
tor sis ( fa ) is a di ( cid : 123 ) ent way of ing the nce rix of the
uts ( see ( ) , for an ent ion ) ich rts rom a per tic
del , and tly nds the ion ost and a erm ing a lar ole
to his sed bis nce .
fa ges for the ame ear der
ork if the ost of ing the den its is ken nto unt , ing as a ior
a eci ( cid : 123 ) ed ate ian ( ten ust the ity rix and lly
own as the ior for the tor ngs ) , and if the ion ors are ded
ing to an cal ate ian ose xes are ned ith the put
ons .
in rms of the ion ced ove , the ard tor sis
del is ten as ( ) :
yi = ghi + ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) n ( ; ( cid : 123 ) ) ; ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) n ( ; ( cid : 123 ) )
the den - put hts , g , are the tor ngs and the ies of the den
its , hi , are the ors ( the ior ver ich is ian ) .
a key ion of the
fa del is hat the ved les are lly ent of ach her ,
ven the ors .
his is ent to ing hat the ual nts of the
j , are lso ent of ach her , or hat ( cid : 123 ) is a nal rix ith
; : : : ; ( cid : 123 )
ng ong the nal .
it is mon to ake ( cid : 123 ) to be the ity
rix .
del ( ) ies hat the nce of the ved les is ven by :
c ( g; ( cid : 123 ) ) = gg
t + ( cid : 123 )
der the del , the ple nce rix ( s ) ows a art ion
( ) out c and itt ( ) ces the ion :
f ( s; c ( g; ( cid : 123 ) ) ) = njc j + ace ( sc
( cid : 123 ) ) ( cid : 123 ) jsj ( cid : 123 ) n
ich , up to ome ant ors , is the ood .
mum ood fa ( cid : 123 ) ts
the ers of the del g and ( cid : 123 ) by ing ion ( ) .
ely ,
ere is no que as lly eap as lar lue ion for
ing the ors rom a ion of ges .
der the ple in ( cid : 123 ) ure in ich uts a and b are tly ted
but ave low nce and put c is ent but has uch her nce .
der hat ens if we low nly one den nit .
the pal ent
ill ign tly ith c and be nal to a and b .
the tor , ver , ill
ign tly ith a and b and ill be nal to c .
the di ( cid : 123 ) nce een the
two ods is asy to and in ing rms .
pca is ent to ing
the ion gth of the ata if we ake the ing ing ons :
ore the ost of ing the del ( i . e .
the ons of the pal
ore the ost of ing the ons of ach ata int nto the
pal nts ( i . e .
the ost of ing the ies of the den
use a ian ion ith the ame nce on ach ion as an
eed ior for ing the ual ors hen ach ion of the
ata int is ted rom the ons nto the pal nts .
ion kes it uch per to ate put c by ( cid : 123 ) rst ing it
to the pal ent .
but his is nly use the ost of ing
his ent is red .
tor sis has a hat ore tic ing
ion .
it ill res the ost of ing the tor ngs , but it
kes nto unt the ost of ing the ons nto ach tor
a ata int , ere is a ate ior ity ion oss the tor
ues and his ion is lly not cal .
the ost of ing the
tor ues is the ack - ler nce een the ior ion
and the cal ior ion for the tor ues .
ing is ned by ing
a tor hat is ust a opy of c use ing his tor lue is ust as
ive as ing the ull lue of c as a ual ror .
ion is her ant di ( cid : 123 ) nce een the two ods .
tor
sis ows di ( cid : 123 ) ent ces to be sed for ing the ual ors on di ( cid : 123 ) ent
put ons .
if the als are ded ing a ( cid : 123 ) xed nce ior the age
ion red to vey a ual is ear in its nce .
if , ver , the
nce of the ior is ted to tch the nce of the ual the ion
is nal to the log of the nce .
his lly ces the ost of
igh nce als as red ith low nce nes and can ake it ter
to ase two low nce als by a tle her han ing one igh
nce ual by a lot .
ure tes how the use of di ( cid : 123 ) ent ise els for di ( cid : 123 ) ent put les
can low tor sis to act a ore ble del han pca .
the ask in
( cid : 123 ) ure is to fer a red gth rom isy nts .
rly his is a
ion ere we ish to act ons gst the uts .
in the ple ,
ree nal ata ere ted ing to the ule own , and the lts of
ing pca and fa are ted by the ion of the ive ( den -
put ) ght tor ( lid ine ) nto the x ( cid : 123 ) y ane .
( we ave own the -
nal ons , for ity .
use of the try in the way the ata
was ted , the x ( cid : 123 ) z ion is lar , ile the y ( cid : 123 ) z ion oes not
ate the int ing ade ere . ) in the low ise ase , pca and fa act
lar els , the ive hts how hat ual ion is aid to oth
the x and y ons .
ver , in the igh ise ase , pca ust ave a rge
ght to ate the rge nce ong the x ion .
on the her and , fa
tly has zed hat all put ons ave cal ies on
the den ble , s , and so ets the nal hts gly .
of rse ,
the ( cid : 123 ) x ent in ( cid : 123 ) ( ion ( ) ) is in ( cid : 123 ) ted to unt for the rge nce
in his put .
his ple tes how fa can del nce gst put
ons ely rom nce eas pca not .
ure : ( a ) ows ree uts and a gle den nit .
uts a and b ave low
nce but are tly ted .
put c has igh nce but is ent of
a and b .
the den nit ves ite di ( cid : 123 ) tly in pal ent sis
and tor sis .
( b ) lot of the ata ith the tor of ing hts
of the den nit for pca ( lid ine ) and fa ( ted ine ) .
( cid : 123 ) x = :
( cid : 123 ) x = :
ure : isy ons of a nal s , x = s + nx , y = s + ny , z = s + nz
ere s , nx , ny and nz are mal dom les ith ero ean .
the ard
ion of s and ny nz are eld ant at : and : ely on all ree
els , ile hat of nx is as own .
the ion of ing les nto
the x ( cid : 123 ) y ane are own by the ots , ile the lid nes are the ons of
den - put ght ors nto his ane .
see ext for her ion .
for ing its , fa uld be une to the act hat di ( cid : 123 ) ent ons ght
ave di ( cid : 123 ) ent sic nts of ise and ook for red ure in its
ond di ( cid : 123 ) nce is hat pca is lly ric eas fa is not .
for fa ,
the lar ons sed to ibe the age are ial in the nse hat the
ise ing hem is ken to be lly ent .
his ion ems
ble for ges , nce the xes de ( cid : 123 ) ned by the put els are eed ged .
ing sis by eal and yan ( ) on the hip een tor nal -
sis , pca , ers and the ltz ine ( ) , ( ) , we lly sed an
der to ent tor sis .
the ity of the del ies hat
the ior ion of the ors hi ven the put xi is ian :
( cid : 123 ) n ( rxi
as bin & yer ( ) how in eir ion of the use of em for fa , the ect
ues of r and ( cid : 123 ) are ned by g and ( cid : 123 ) as :
r = ( g
g + i ) ( cid : 123 )
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) = i + g
ing the ltz ine , we all r and ( cid : 123 ) ers of the ion
del , nce hey are ble for ing the tom - up ive ( cid : 123 ) lds of the
den its .
ing the orm of ese ion ers can ive ght nto
the nts of the ges hat the ors ode .
ary nts ith his del ted hat it was one to ver ( cid : 123 ) ing
in a ery lar ner .
ake a xel on the rts of the ( cid : 123 ) rid .
it can
ily cur hat for ome git the ity of his xel is ays in the ing set
for ome sub - del .
the tor sis del ght tly ide hat his xel
res ing in mon ith the her els and ore hat its sic
ise vel is .
if , in the est
set , by ome irk of the ise , ere is ity in
his xel , hen the ood of the age der his sub - del ill be .
his is
ble , nce the xel is nly ing ise .
one way to ise ing
is to ose a mum ble sic nce ( his is a nal way of
ing res of ian els ) ; her is to add nal rms to the
nce rix of the les so it is as if hey all su ( cid : 123 ) er rom tra ent
ese ion ods ere hly lly e ( cid : 123 ) ous , and we opt
the ter for the cal ies low .
the ull non - ear del ses a ure of cal tor ers in the ame way
hat the non - ear pca del sed a ure of pal ent ers .
the ame em - sed hod can be sed to ( cid : 123 ) t the ned del , ith the e -
ase ing ies for ges to the tor ers in a ard or oft
ner , and the m - ase ing the ive del hin in ser ing
to the new nce rix of the ata for ich it kes ity .
use
tor sis is a ine ive del we oid the ary ice of ( cid : 123 )
is red to ply em to a ure of pca els .
iv ent ion
est our ods o ( cid : 123 ) er ple , non - ric , ays of ing be -
een the its .
ver , the ric hat is sed to dge ity can ake a
ial di ( cid : 123 ) nce to the ity of the ing nce .
ere are imi -
ive and mum ood ays to ook at his sue .
for nce , tie and
ani ( ) ose a ric for the est urs at a int sed on for -
ion rom cal ear ant sis ( ing ons in ich the
ges rom the di ( cid : 123 ) ent ses di ( cid : 123 ) er and ing ons in ich hey are
on the her and , ard et al ( ) , in the hod bed in the ion ,
sed an ach hat wes ore to ing the cal ure of the ses .
eir ach is sed on ior ion , own to be lid for the lar
ask of git ing , hat ain cal ons of an age rve the
ity of the git hat is bed .
e ( cid : 123 ) ely , ach int is ced by a cal
low nal ear old , ons in the ion of ich cur no ost .
tly , ach age is led as a cal ear ace .
ote hat ese cal
ces are sen to del the ges of ach git as est as ble , and not to
ort the est ble ion een hem .
his cal low - nal
and ear our is hat ted our ear els .
enk and ram
( ) , ( ) ake a tly di ( cid : 123 ) ent ach and ile own all dge out a
ter nto a gle ype ned to tly ize the nce een
the ype and the ent nes und ach of the ing les .
ure tes the dea .
ine hat the our nts - ray in age ace
di ( cid : 123 ) ent les of the ame git , ect to ome oth ion
in ent nce , one uld ent his rve ing the nts and eir cal
nts ( ick nes ) .
ver one ght do ter ing it nto ree cal ear
els her han our ( del a ( ust a ine in his ple ase ) ges the per
art of the rve ore e ( cid : 123 ) ely han the ion of the two nts at and
ven ust the nts , one ght lso uct del b for and , ich
uld be ate .
ing ion out the nts as ell uld
age the ion of ese nts .
are uld be ken in ing his
ure to igh nal ces .
for oth pca and fa , the put is rly ted to the put , ie yi = axi ith
a = rg .
in der for the els to be ant to ons ong ent ion
j xes the ion , for ple , tal and cal ons , ngs and ars
ure : tic ple of ent nce and cal ear els .
see ext for
i;j res hat oth xi + ( cid : 123 ) i;j and xi
( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) i;j be ted ell , ere ( cid : 123 ) j is
a ter hat tes how far ong the ent tor i;j ood ion
uld be ced .
the all ion ror is hen nal to
and so the del has to uct the ent ors as ell as the ing
ges .
the ive nce of the ter ith ect to the mer is led
a lar ion rns the ode ost for the den its in fa .
an ive way of ing his ior is in rms of ing nal les
to the ing set hat are ted by ese ons .
ach ple uld
be ced by a ian oud of ( cid : 123 ) ous les .
ing ese les is
ard ing ods uch as pca and fa ich are sed on ust the
nce rix of the uts ( it nts to ing nto the nce rix the
a ori ent ors , ted by an unt , ( cid : 123 ) j , hat des o ( cid : 123 ) the nce
of the ing ern and the nce of the ces .
the one di ( cid : 123 ) nce
rom ust ing tra les to the set is hat we set the ies of
ach del for the ent ors ing to how ell the del ted ust
the ent age , nce the ion is to rce the cal ear els to ure the
ces ves , ing the nts to ape the cal ure hin a sub -
if the ase of ing les had ust een ded , his int
uld not ave een ied .
ere are two di ( cid : 123 ) ces een his use of the ent ors and hat in ard
et al ( ) .
one is hat for us , the e ( cid : 123 ) ect of ese nts has a ted ial ex -
ent , eas for hem , the ear old out ach age nds to in ( cid : 123 ) ity
ice , in igh nal age ces , it is ely hat ges ill ave ery
rge ons hin the ent ace and all ons o ( cid : 123 ) it .
the ond
di ( cid : 123 ) nce is hat ard et al der ent ons to the est age as
ell as the ing ges ( his res ( cid : 123 ) ing the est ach een the
ear old out the est age and the ear lds out all the ing
ges .
it uld be ard to do his ing ion for oth pca and
fa; ver ing it ing ing is lly ore cky ( ) .
ard et als ric uld be ant in the mit of ery rge ers of ing
ges , nce the ase elf uld ain all the ons hat lly
rve git ity .
in the ame mit , the cal ear pca and fa ods uld
lso not ene ( cid : 123 ) t rom the nts .
v tal lts
we ave ted the e ( cid : 123 ) acy of pca and fa sed ity els at ing
ges of ten its .
for oth pca and fa els , ith and out tan -
nts , we eed as ows : ing the ing ase , nly ges of one ass ( say
ges of s ) are ted to the ure del .
the ing thm ned
in ion ii is ted and lds a ure of ear sub - els for ach ass
der to ave ime , we ize the rch for fa els rom the pca els
pca els the ing ost is ust the ion ost , ile for the fa els ,
one orm of the ete ode ost for ple i is ned as the sum of ing
the ion ror and the ode ost of the ors .
ing ian els for
oth , his can be sed as :
+ ace ( ( cid : 123 ) ) + ( rxi ) t
j ( cid : 123 ) gj rx
j ) + g
j ( cid : 123 ) gji +
ere gj is the j
th row of g .
a est age x is ted to all ity els and
tes of the ass nal ies , p ( xjk ) ; k = : : : are ned
all ect ssi ( cid : 123 ) ons are lly tly and if the ior ief is hat all ses
are lly ely hen the yes ion ule tes hat we uld ign x to
the ass k
( cid : 123 ) = xkp ( xjk )
we sed ges rom the dar rom ase of ies , tes , zip des ,
its , and tic ers ( ) .
the br ing set of ary ted dig -
its was ded nto two ets of ize , and , ely .
the mer
set was sed to ain the ity els and the ter set was sed as a oss -
ion set to low us to ose ous ers uch as the ber of cal
ear sub - els to use in the res and the ber of pal nts
( ors ) in the pca ( fa ) els .
hen ing els hat use ent rma -
ion we are lso ree to ify the ive ngs ( ( cid : 123 ) j in ion ( ) ) .
in ity ,
we did not orm an ive rch for mal ues for all ese ers ,
but ply ose ues hat did bly ell on the oss - ion ges
the lts ted ere , we wed up to pal nts ( or ors ) in
ach sub - del .
ere ere lso sub - els in ach ure .
the dar ase des two ted est ets .
the dbs ( ges )
set is a set of the bs
( ges ) set ing nly ell ted its .
ter ing all the ter ues , we sed all ; ges to ain a ( cid : 123 ) nal
ion of the els ich was sed to ate nce on the est ets .
the ary ges in the ata set are of ing zes , so we ( cid : 123 ) rst led hem to
lie on an ( cid : 123 ) xel rid and hen hed ith a ian ( cid : 123 ) ter ith a ard
ion of alf a xel .
ure tes ons of two ery di ( cid : 123 ) ent les of s .
sub - els
ich ave zed for one yle uct rly ges of the her yle .
les of the pca and fa els hts are own in ( cid : 123 ) res and pec -
ely .
in the pca els , the ion and ive ght ces are ply
ses of ach her ile for the fa els hey di ( cid : 123 ) er .
the nce of the di ( cid : 123 ) ent ods are ted in ble .
ere are no sig -
ni ( cid : 123 ) ant di ( cid : 123 ) ces een the ces of the di ( cid : 123 ) ent ods at the p < :
vel on the bs
est set hen red ise ing a two - led ars
in ing the mns of ble , it is ant to ote hat the
dbs is a lly sen set of the bs est ata hen rly ted dig -
his was lly su ( cid : 123 ) ent to ain at ast % of the ing set nce ned to hat
sub - del .
pal nts hat ned in ess of % ere ded to oid ver ( cid : 123 ) ing .
his ows use the ght ors are lly nal and so the the ive del
rse is ply its ose .
its ere lly ved ( ) .
the ing ata was lso lly ned
is ore ble to ude by ing the ion and dbs for -
ces hat the els did not ver ( cid : 123 ) t .
ure : ion of the ure of pca els on two di ( cid : 123 ) ent les of s
( cid : 123 ) age is own at the tom .
the ( cid : 123 ) rst two ows how the ons
rom ach of the sub - els in the ity tor ned on ges of s .
hed to ach sub - els ion is its ion ost ive to the
est sub - del ( ich has ost of ero )
as a son , her ate of the art ods ain out % ror tes ( ) on
the nal ata ich had a ean ize of und ( cid : 123 ) els .
hus the ges
we sed had eas out mes ler and so uld ell ave ost ion .
as a ugh ide k - est our has an ror ate of : % on the bs est set .
his is gni ( cid : 123 ) tly rse ( p < : ) han the nce ned ith the pca
ith nts hod or the fa ods .
the k - est our hod res
k = sen on the sis of the ion set
ure : hts in the sub - els of the pca ity del for the git .
on the eft are the ans .
the per row ely to the ght of the ean
ows the put - den hts ( ion hts ) , ile the wer row ves the
den - put hts ( ive hts ) .
of the der of n = , n nal ( in his ase n = ) dot cts to ify
an age in one of the ast mns in ble .
our cal els ( pca or fa )
ire of the der ( cid : 123 ) m ( cid : 123 ) r n - nal dot cts for ach ity del .
nce ere are its and we sed m = r = , the ity els ire of
the ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) = or out a tor of ( cid : 123 ) ve mes ess ion han
a ard ion of the k - est our hod .
the ber
of dot cts for the ent nce hod nds on the ber of ent
ons ( ) .
if ent ons are sed on ese ata hen of the der of ( cid : 123 ) n
dot cts are ded , or out a tor of mes the cal del ion .
ure : hts in the sub - els of the fa ity del for the git
out is the ame as in ( cid : 123 ) ure .
we ave ted two di ( cid : 123 ) ent rts of lly ear els of ges of its , one
sed on pal nts sis and one on tor sis , and ave own
hat hey can oth orm ell at git ion .
ese els ate ree
jor nts .
rst , ear els ith ust a few ons can be sed to ood
e ( cid : 123 ) ect for ing the cal ure of the igh nal lex lds
of the xel ges of its .
ond , ing ple nts in the res
can be ery ene ( cid : 123 ) ial .
in ral , his uld be oth for ing sly di ( cid : 123 ) ent
les of the its ( uch as s ith and out ops in eir ils ) and for the e ( cid : 123 ) cts
of a ( cid : 123 ) ne ons of the its by ore han out a gle xel , ich ave
pca + nts
fa + nts
ble : age of ges tly ssi ( cid : 123 ) ed by ach of the ods
ion lts ere ned hen the ity els ere ned ing the
; ing les .
the lts in the ast two mns ere ned ith
els ned on all ; ing ges .
hly non - ear e ( cid : 123 ) cts on the ved ges . ird , a ori ion out
the cal ure of the lds hat mes rom dge out ces
of git ies ver ain ons ( ) is ery asy to ate nto
ese ear els .
ote hat fa is ust a lar way of ing the ber of
ers hat de ( cid : 123 ) ne the nce rix sed to del ata .
it is ear hat if the old of the ges is tly di ( cid : 123 ) ble , hen cal lin -
ear els ill do ell at ing hem .
ing the em eme for ive
ive ing ( cid : 123 ) nds the ets of ges hat ect the cal ure and
( cid : 123 ) nds the ral ion nts een the nct rts .
est our
nce we did not ave ugh ata to ( cid : 123 ) t a ery rge ber of cal els for ach git , and
the its ere bly ell sed , the di ( cid : 123 ) ent cal els ere tly due to di ( cid : 123 ) ent
mes are the cal mit of uch mes , and uld ork est if one has so
any les hat the cal ure of the old can be red by ( cid : 123 ) ing the
est int or nts and ( cid : 123 ) ing a ear ace to hem .
ere are two ial
ges to the em eme .
rst , it is ing ion rom hat ant
ges to ine the cal ons in the old , ing it to age way
the ial ise hat pts the ges .
of rse , if too uch ing is
one , hen the ons uld be lly sed .
ond , at ion ime ,
her han ing to rch the ire ing set to ( cid : 123 ) nd the rns est to the
new put , dge out ese rns has een pre - led nto the ted
ber of res and the ted ber of ple ent or tor ons
ted ith hem .
ion can ore be ite ast .
in his udy , we did not ( cid : 123 ) nd hat uch di ( cid : 123 ) nce een our two rts of els
for the nce ure hin a ear tch .
one ght ave ted tor
sis to ave had ter nce , nce its ior del of the age era -
ion ess is ore ble .
for fa , ven the ors , any ies een
the del and the age are ent rom one xel to the ext .
pca ses a
cal ian in the ons not red by the ned nts , and his
can unt to a ted ion ver the els ves .
lso fa lic -
tly els nce ure , eas pca els oth nce and nce .
his age may ave een lli ( cid : 123 ) ed by our ion and ion pro -
res .
on the her and , it is lly uch per to orm pca
ing the ing ase , ugh hey are lly ive ing ion .
oth els orm dly on ese ata .
ing a ter way to ise the
fa del nst ant els is ant .
ven its del , fa is ely
ect to ign a ero nce to ing els hat are ent out the
ing set .
our ior dge hat his ght pen can be sed to ify a
ore ted ior hat kes it ble hat els hat are lly ive
can lly be ted by ise .
we lso und hat the ion of ent ors did not lly ove the
nce .
our use of ent ors is lly an ion of ent - rop
( ) , ich ins the put of the ork to sfy ate ces
ugh its nal ves .
nce our rks are ear , ese nal
ves are rly ple , ing the ent ors ust to be ded nto
the nce ces .
if the nts out put xk ere tly red by a
ear del red at hat int , hen the ion ror e
i for put xi uld
be tly the one - ded ent nce rom xi to the ent ace of put xk .
tie & ard ( ) , ped a lly ear ure del ous to the one
bed ere , ept ing two - ded ent ces ing the ole of ing .
nts uld be ted not to elp if ere are ugh ata nts hat hey
ess tly all the ual ces .
it is ing to del the low nal lds of igh nal xel
ges of its in a lly ble ner .
our lly ear els
are ned to ure cts of the ort - nge ure of the old and to
ect her dge out the git ing lem , uch as the act hat
ere are di ( cid : 123 ) ent les of ing ven for the ame git .
the els are
lly and lly ard .
his rch was ded by ple and by the rio ion ogy rch tre .
we ank ice ard , bin ani , rob ani and ann le cun for ful ons .
geo ( cid : 123 ) rey ton is the itt - rns low of the ian ute for ced rch .
