one way of ing a ted , igh - nal ata ion is to use a rge ber of ely ple tic els and how ine the ons ied by ach del .
a ell - own ple of his ach is a ure of ans in ich ach ple del is a ian , and the ion ule sts of ing a ted ith - tic ean of the ual ons .
his is ent to ing an all ive del in ich ach ata tor is ted by rst ing one of the ual ive els and hen ing hat ual del to ate the ata tor .
ing els by orm - ing a ure is ive for ral ons .
it is asy to t res of ble els to ata ing ion - ion ( em ) or ent ent , and res are lly bly ore ful han eir in - ual nts .
eed , if tly any els are ded in c ( cid : 123 ) 123 tts ute of ogy
ral ion 123 , 123 ( 123 )
rey e .
ton
the ure , it is ble to ate ted oth ons
ely , ure els are ery ent in igh - nal ces .
der , for ple , the old of ace ges .
it kes out 123 eal ers to ify the ape , ose , ion , and ion of a ace , and der ood ing ons , our ual ems uce a arp ior ion on his 123 - nal old .
his not be one ing a ure of els , ach ned in the 123 - nal old , use the ior ion not be per han the ual els in the ure and the ual els ust be dly ned to low hem to ver the 123 - nal old .
a ery ent way of ing ons is to ply hem to - her and ize .
igh - nal ons , for ple , are ten ted as the uct of one - nal ons .
if the ual ons are uni - or ate ans , eir uct ill lso be a ate ian so , ike res of ans , rod - cts of ans not ate ary oth ons .
if , ver , the ual els are a bit ore ted and ach con - ins one or ore ent ( i . e . , den ) les , ing eir ibu - ons her ( and ing ) can be ery ful .
ual els of his ind ill be led rts .
cts of rts ( poe ) can uce uch per ons han the ual ert els .
for ple , ach ert del can con - ain a ent set of the ons in a igh - nal ace , and eir uct ill hen ain all of the ons .
for ing and - ten its , one low - ion del can ate ges hat ave the ate all ape of the git , and her ore cal els can ure hat all age hes ain nts of oke ith the ect ne ure .
for ing ces , ach ert can rce a get of tic dge .
for ple , one ert uld ure hat the ses ree , one uld ure hat ere is ber ent een the ect and erb , and one uld ure hat ngs in ich lor ves low ize ves are ore ble han the the rse .
ing a poe to ata ars ult use it ars to be ary to ute the ves , ith ect to the ers , of the ion ion hat is sed in the ion .
as we all see , ver , ese ves can be sed by ing a ess ous ive ion han the log ood of the ata .
123 ing cts of rts by ing ood
we der ual ert els for ich it is ble to ute the ive of the log ity of a ata tor ith ect to the
ing cts of rts
ers of the ert .
we ine n ual ert els as ows :
p ( d | 123 , .
, n ) = m fm ( d | m ) m fm ( c | m )
ere d is a ata tor in a ete ace , m is all the ers of ual del m , fm ( d | m ) is the ity of d der del m , and c xes all ble ors in the ata ace . 123 for ous ata ces , the sum is ced by the ate ral .
for an ual ert to t the ata ell , it ust ive igh ity to the ved ata , and it ust ste as tle ity as ble on the est of the ata ace .
a poe , ver , can t the ata ell ven if ach ert tes a lot of its ity on ate ons of the ata ace , ded ent rts ste ity in ent ons .
the ous way to t a poe to a set of ved tly and lly ted ( i . i . d . ) ata ors 123 is to low the ive of the log ood of ach ved tor , d , der the poe .
his is ven by
log p ( d | 123 ,
= log fm ( d | m )
p ( c | 123 ,
log fm ( c | m )
the ond erm on the ght - and ide of ion 123 is ust the ex - ted ive of the log ity of an ert on asy ata , c , hat is ted rom the poe .
so ing hat ach of the ual rts has a ble ive , the ous lty in ing the ive of the log ity of the ata der the poe is ing tly dis - ted asy ata .
his can be one in ous ays .
for ete ata , it is ble to use ion ing .
ach ert tes a ata vec - tor tly , and his ess is ted til all the rts pen to ree .
ion ing is a ood way of ing how a poe ies an all ity ion and how ent it is rom a sal del , but it is lly ery ent .
bbs ing is lly uch ore ent .
in bbs ing , ach ble aws a ple rom its ior ion ven the ent tes of the her les ( ge - man & man , 123 ) .
ven the ata , the den tes of all the rts can ays be ted in lel use hey are lly pen - ent .
his is an ant nce of the uct ion . 123 if the
ill lly be a ity in his cle .
123 so ong as fm ( d | m ) is ive , it oes not eed to be a ity at all , ugh it 123 for ime - ies els , d is a ole nce .
123 the nal nce is ous in the ted cal del of a poe use the nly ath een the den tes of two rts is via the ved ata .
rey e .
ton
ure 123 : a ion of ing bbs ing .
at ime 123 , the ble les ent a ata tor , and the den les of all the rts are ted in lel ith les rom eir ior ion ven the ble les .
at ime 123 , the ble les are all ted to uce a re - ion of the nal ata tor rom the den les , and hen the den les are ain ted in lel .
if his ess is ted suf - tly ten , it is ble to get ily ose to the ium ion .
the ons ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) own on the ons een ble and den les are the ics sed for ing in bms , ich are bed in
ual rts lso ave the rty hat the nts of the ata tor are lly ent ven the den ate of the ert , the den and ble les orm a ite aph , and it is ble to ate all of the nts of the ata tor in lel ven the den tes of all the rts .
so bbs ing can ate een lel tes of the den and ble les ( see ure 123 ) .
to get an un - sed ate of the ent for the poe , it is ary for the kov ain to rge to the ium ion .
ely , ven if it is lly ble to ach the qui - ium ion ore ing les , ere is a ond , ous dif - lty .
les rom the ium ion lly ave igh ari - nce nce hey ome rom all ver the els ion .
his igh ari - nce mps the ate of the ive .
rse ill , the nce in the les nds on the ers of the del .
his ion in the ari - nce ses the ers to be led rom ons of igh nce ven if the ent is ero .
to and his tle ect , der a zon - tal eet of tin hat is ing in uch a way hat ome rts ave ong cal ons and her rts are ess .
and red on the tin ill ate in the ess eas ven ugh the ime - ged ent is ero ere .
123 ing by ing ive nce
ing the log ood of the ata ( ged ver the ata ibu - ion ) is ent to ing the ack - ler nce een the ata ion , 123 , and the ium ion ver the isi -
ing cts of rts
, hat is ced by ged bbs ing rom the ble les , p
123 ( cid : 123 ) p
123 ( d ) log 123 ( d ) = h ( 123 ) ( cid : 123 ) log p
123 ( d ) log p
ere ( cid : 123 ) tes a ack - ler nce , the gle ets ote ons ver the ion ied as a ipt , and h ( 123 ) is the opy of the ata ion .
123 oes not end on the ers of the
del , so h ( 123 ) can be red ing the ion .
ote hat p is ust her way of ing p ( d | 123 , .
ion 123 , ged ver the ata ion , can be ten as
ere log fm is a dom ble hat uld be ten as log fm ( d | m ) ith d elf ing a dom ble ing to the ata .
ere is a ple and ive ive to mum ood ing hat lim - tes ost all of the ion red to get les rom the qui - ium ion and lso tes uch of the nce hat sks the ent nal .
his ive ach ves ing a fer - ent ive ion .
ead of ust ing 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
, we ize the nce een 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
is the ion ver the one - tep ons of the ata ors ted by one ull tep of bbs ing ( see ure 123 ) .
the ive ion for ing his ive nce is hat we uld ike the kov ain hat is ted by bbs ing to ave the ial ion 123 ver the ble les red .
ead of ing the ain to ium and ing the ial and nal ves , we can ply run the ain for one ull tep and hen ate the ers to uce the ncy of the ain to der way rom the ial ion on the rst tep .
use 123 is one tep ser to the ium ion han 123 , we are eed hat 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
ess 123 als 123 , so the ive nce can ver be ive .
lso , for kov ins in ich all ons ave ero ies 123 = p ity , 123 = 123
, use if the ion oes not
123 123 is a ral way to ote the ata ion if we ine ing a kov
ain at the ata ion at ime 123
rey e .
ton
nge at all on the rst tep , it ust ady be at ium , so the ive nce can be ero nly if the del is ect . 123
her way of ing ive nce ing is to iew it as a hod of ing all the ays in ich the poe del uld ike to ort the rue ata .
his is one by ing hat , on age , the ion is no ore ble der the poe del han the nal
the cal ion for the ive nce is hat the in -
on the ght - and ide of ion 123 els
ble ion ver p
( 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
if ach ert is sen to be ble , it is ble to ute the act ues of the ive of log fm ( d | m ) for a ata tor , d .
it is lso ard to ple rom 123 and 123 , so the rst two rms on the ght - and ide of ion 123 are ble .
by ion , the ing ure ces an sed ple rom 123
ick a ata tor , d , rom the ion of the ata 123
ute , for ach ert ely , the ior ity tri - ion ver its ent ( i . e . , den ) les ven the ata tor ,
ick a lue for ach ent ble rom its ior ion .
ven the sen ues of all the ent les , ute the con - nal ion ver all the ble les by ing to - her the nal ons ied by ach ert and nor -
ick a lue for ach ble ble rom the nal ion .
ese ues ute the ted ata tor , d .
the ird erm on the ght - and ide of ion 123 nts the ect
of the nge of the ion of the one - tep ons sed by a nge in m .
it is tic to ute , but ive imu - ons ( see ion 123 ) how hat it can ely be red use it is all
123 it is sly ble to ake the ive nce all by ing a kov ain hat xes ery wly , ven if the ata ion is ery far rom the ual ium ion .
it is ore ant to ure ing by ing ues uch as ght cay hat ure hat ery ble ble tor has a ero oba - ity ven the tes of the den les .
ing cts of rts
and dom ses the ant of the her two rms .
the ers of the rts can ore be ted in ion to the ate ive of the ive nce :
his rks ery ell in ice ven hen a gle ion of ach ata tor is sed in ace of the ull ity ion ver re - ons .
the nce in the ves of the ata ors and eir ons has ome nce use the ion ure is tic .
but hen the poe is ing the ata ely ell , the one - tep ons ill be ery lar to the ata , so the nce ill be ery all .
the ose tch een a ata tor and its ion ces ing nce in uch the ame way as the use of hed irs for tal and rol ons in a cal ial .
the low nce kes it ble to orm on - ine ing ter ach ata tor is ted , ugh the ons bed in his cle use ini - tch ing in ich the ter tes are sed on the med adi - nts red on a ing set of the ete ing set . 123
ere is an ive ion for the ing thm in qua - ion 123 .
in igh - nal ata ets , the ata rly ays lie on , or ose to , a uch wer - nal , hly ved old .
the poe eds to nd ers hat ake a arp dge of log ity ong the low - nal old .
by ing ith a int on the old and ing hat the cal ons rom the ent les of all the rts do not ave tly her ity , the poe res hat the ity ion has the ght cal ure .
it is ble hat the poe ill lly ign igh ity to her ant and ted rts of the ata ace , but his is ely if the log ity ace is oth and oth its ght and its cal ure are ned at the ata nts .
it is lso ble to nd and ate uch nts by ing ged bbs ing out any ata , but his is ust a way of ing the ing and not , as in ann ine ing , an ial art of it .
123 a ple ple
oes uld ork ery ell on ata ons hat can be zed nto a uct of wer - nal ons .
his is ted in res 123 and 123
ere are 123 uss rts , ach of ich is a
123 ini - tch ing kes ter use of the ity of lab to ize oss
rey e .
ton
ure 123 : ach dot is a ata int .
the ata ave een ted ith a uct of 123 rts .
the ses how the one ard ion urs of the aus - ans in ach ert .
the rts are zed ith mly ted , lar ans hat ave out the ame nce as the ata .
the ve ded rts ain gue , but the ing ons , ich ine the ior ity ith ich ach of ese uss rts cts its ian her han its orm , ain igh .
ure of a orm ion and a gle xis - ned ian .
in the ted del , ach ght ata ter is ted by the ion of two rts ans , ich are ted ong ent xes .
ing a con - ive ing ate , the ing red 123 tes of the ers .
for ach ate of the ers , the ing ion is med on ery ved ata tor :
ven the ata , d , ate the ior ity of ing the ian her han the orm in ach ert and ute the rst erm on the ght - and ide of ion 123 .
for ach ert , lly ect the ian or the orm ac - ing to the ior .
ute the zed uct of the se - ted ans , ich is elf a ian , and ple rom it to get a ted tor in the ata ace .
to oid ems , ere is one ial ert hat is ned to ays ick its ian .
ute the ive erm in ion 123 ing the ted
123 ing a ion ode
a poe can lso be a ery ive del hen ach ert is ite dly ned on ery ion and ion is ned by the ion of a
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : ree red ata nts ted by ged bbs ing rom the 123 rts ted in ure 123
the bbs ing ted rom a dom int in the nge of the ata and sed 123 lel ons ith ing .
ice hat the ted del tes ata at the rid int hat is ing in the eal ata .
rge ber of rts .
ure 123 ows hat ens hen the ive nce ing thm is sed to t 123 uss rts to 123 - nal tic ges hat ach ain one dge .
the ges ied in eir ion , ion , and ies on ach ide of the dge .
the ity ole oss the dge was a oid .
ach ert lso ned a nce for ach xel , and ugh ese ces ied , ual rts did not ize in a all set of the ons .
ven an age , out alf of the rts ave a igh ity of ing eir ian her han eir orm .
the cts of the sen ans are ent ons of the age .
the rts at the top of ure 123 ook ike dge ors in ous ons , ons , and ies .
any of the rts her own ave ven try and are sed to ate one end of an dge .
hey ach ork for two ent ets of ges hat ave ite ies and ent ons .
123 ing the rts
one way to ize a poe is to ain ach ert ely , ing the rts to fer by ing hem ent or tly ted ing ses or by ing hem on ent ets of the ata ons , or by ing ent del ses for the ent rts .
nce ach ert has een zed ely , the ual ity ons eed to be sed to a nal wer to ate the ial poe .
ate ion of the rts ems ike a ble dea , but sim - ons ate hat the poe is far ore ely to ome ped in oor cal ima if the rts are wed to ize ely .
ter so - ons are ned by ply ing the rts mly ith ery gue ons and ing the ing ule in ion 123 .
rey e .
ton
ure 123 : ( a ) ome 123 123 ges hat ach ain a gle ity dge .
the ion , ion , and ast of the dge all ary .
( b ) the ans of all the 123 - nal ans in a uct of 123 rts , ach of ich is a ure of a ian and a orm .
the poe was ted to 123 ges of the ype own on the eft .
the rts ave een red by and so hat ely lar rts are ent .
123 oes and ann nes
the ann ine ing thm ( ton & ski , 123 ) is lly ant and asy to ent in are but ery low in rks ith ted den its use of the nce rob - ems bed in ion 123
sky ( 123 ) ced a ted ype of ann ine ith one ble yer , one den yer , and no yer ons .
und and ler ( 123 ) zed hat in his re - ted ann ine ( rbm ) , the ity of ing a ble tor is nal to the uct of the ies hat the ble vec - tor uld be ted by ach of the den its ing one .
an rbm is ore a poe ith one ert per den nit . 123 hen the den nit
123 ann nes and oes are ery ent ses of tic ive
del , and the ion of the two ses is bms .
ing cts of rts
of an ert is off , it ies a ble ity ion in ich ach ble nit is lly ely to be on or off .
hen the den nit is on , it ies a ent ial ion by ing the ght on its ion to ach ble nit to ify the log dds hat the ble nit is on .
ing her the ons ver the ble tes eci - ed by ent rts is ved by ply ing the log dds .
act nce of the den tes ven the ble ata is ble in an rbm use the tes of the den its are lly ent ven
the ing thm ven by ion 123 is tly ent to the ard ann ing thm for an rbm .
der the ive of the log ity of the ata ith ect to the ght wij een a ble nit i and a den nit j .
the rst erm on the ght - and ide of ion 123 is
log fj ( d | wj )
= ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) d ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) p
ere wj is the tor of hts ing den nit j to the ble its , ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) d is the ted lue of isj hen d is ped on the ble its and sj is led rom its ior ion ven d , and ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) p is the ted lue of isj hen ing bbs ing of the den and ble its is ted to get les rom the ium ion in a ork ose nly den nit is j .
the ond erm on the ght - and ide of ion 123 is :
p ( c | w )
log fj ( c | wj )
ere w is all of the hts in the rbm and ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) p is the ted lue of isj hen ing bbs ing of all the den and all the ble its is ted to get les rom the ium ion of the rbm .
ing ion 123 rom ion 123 and ing ons ver
the ion of the ata ves = ( 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
= ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) p
the ime red to ach ium and the igh ing ari - nce in ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) p
ake ing ult .
it is uch ore ive to use the ate ent of the ive nce .
for an rbm , his ate ent is rly asy to ute :
( 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
) ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 )
is the ted lue of isj hen one - tep ons are ped on the ble its and sj is led rom its ior ion ven the ion ( see ure 123 ) .
rey e .
ton
123 ing the res of ten its
hen ted ith eal igh - nal ata , a ted ann ine ned to ize the ive nce ing ion 123 uld arn a set of tic ary res hat del the ata ell .
to est his ure , an rbm ith 123 den its and 123 ble its was ned on 123 123 123 eal - ued ges of ten its rom all 123 ses .
the ges , rom the br ing set on the sps dar 123 , ere zed in dth and ght , but hey ere hly ble in yle .
the xel ies ere zed to lie een 123 and 123 so hat hey uld be ted as ies , and ion 123 was ied to use ies in ace of tic ary ues for oth the ata and the
( 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
) ( cid : 123 ) ipj ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) ipj ( cid : 123 )
lly sen ary tes of the den its ere ill sed for ing the ies of the ted els , but ead of ing ary tes for the els rom ose ies , the ies ves ere sed as the ted ata tor .
it kes 123 urs in lab 123 on a 123 mhz ium ii ion to orm 123 chs of ing .
his is uch ter han ard ltz - ann ine ing , ble ith the ake - eep thm ( hin - ton , yan , rey , & eal , 123 ) and bly wer han ing em to t a ure del ith the ame ber of ers .
in ach och , the hts ere ted 123 mes ing the ate ent of the ive nce ted on ini - hes of ize 123 hat ned 123 ars of ach git ass .
the ing ate was set lly to be out one - ter of the ate hat sed ent ons in the pa - ers .
to ove the ing eed her , a tum hod was sed .
ter the rst 123 chs , the ter tes ied by qua - ion 123 ere ted by ing 123 mes the ous ate .
the poe ned zed res ose ary tes ded ost ect ons .
for ach age , out one - ird of the res ere ned on .
ome of the ned res had on - ter off - und cep - ive lds or ice rsa , ome ked ike ces of oke , and ome ked ike bor ers or ets .
the hts of 123 of the den its , se - ted at dom , are own in ure 123
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : the ive lds of a mly ted set of the 123 den its in a poe hat was ned on 123 ges of its ith ual ers rom ach ass .
ach ock ows the 123 ned hts ing a den nit to the els .
the ale oes rom 123 ( ite ) to 123 ( ack ) .
123 ing ned els of ten its for ion
an ive ect of oes is hat it is asy to ute the tor in ion 123 , so it is asy to ute the log ity of a ata tor up to an ive ant , log z , ich is the log of the tor in ion 123 .
ely , it is ery ard to ute his ive ant .
his oes not ter if we ant to are nly the ies of two ent ata ors der the poe , but it kes it ult to ate the del ned by a poe , use the ous way to ure the ess of ing is to sum the log ies hat the poe gns to est ata ors awn rom the ame ion as the ing ata but not sed
for a lty ion ask , it uld be ble to ain a poe on nor - mal ata and hen to arn a gle lar old lue for the mal -
rey e .
ton
zed log ies in der to ize ion een mal ata and a few mal ses .
his kes ood use of the ity of a poe to orm sed ing .
it is ent to ive ian ssi - ion ing a ery ive ate del of mal ses hat ply rns the ame ned log ity for all mal ses .
an ive way to ate the ing ure is to arn two ent oes on ent ata ets uch as ges of the git 123 and im - ges of the git 123
ter ing , a est age , t , is ted to 123 and 123 , and hey ute log p ( t | 123 ) + log 123 and log p ( t | 123 ) + log 123 , re - ely .
if the nce een log 123 and log 123 is own , it is asy to ick the ost ely ass of the est age , and nce his nce is nly a gle ber , it is ite asy to ate it ely ing a set of ion ges ose els are own .
if ive nce is the nly oal and all the ant ses are own in nce , it is rob - bly ble to ain all the ers of a tem ely .
in his cle , ver , ive nce on the its is sed ply as a way of ing hat sed oes arn ery ood els of the ual git ses .
ure 123 ows res ned by a poe hat ins a yer of 123 den its and is ned on 123 ges of the git 123
ure 123 ows ome sly een est ges of 23s and eir one - tep ons rom the ary ies of the poe ned on 23s and rom an cal poe ned on 23s .
ure 123 ows the zed log ity res of ome ing and est ges der a del ned on 123 ges of the git 123 and a del ned on 123 ges of the git 123
ely , the ial est set for the sps its tes the ard ion hat est ata uld be awn rom the ame ion as the ing ata , so ere the est ges ere awn rom the sed ion of the ial ing set .
ven for the sly een est ges , the res der the two els low ect ion .
to eve his ent ion , it was ary to use els ith two den ers and age the res rom two ely ned els of ach git ass .
for ach git ass , one del had 123 its in its rst den yer and 123 in its ond den yer .
the her del had 123 in the rst den yer and 123 in the ond .
the its in the rst den yer ere ned out ard to the ond den yer .
ter ing the rst den yer , the ond den yer was ned ing the ies of ure ion in the rst den yer as the ata .
for ing , the res ded by the two den ers ere ply ded her .
ing the ore ded by the ond den yer ads to bly rse ion of the git ses on est ata .
ure 123 ows the zed log ity res for sly een est ges of 23s and 23s , ich are the ost ult ses to ate .
ion is not ect , but it is ing hat all
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : the hts ned by 123 den its ned on 123 123 ges of the git 123
the ale oes rom 123 ( ite ) to 123 ( ack ) .
ote hat the lds are tly ite cal .
a cal ure ike the one in umn 123 , row 123 oks ike an dge tor , but it is est ood as a cal ion of a ate .
ose hat all the her ive res ate an age of a 123 hat ers rom the ata in ing a rge oop ose top lls on the ack art of the ive eld .
by ing on his ure , the top of the oop can be ved and ced by a ine ent hat is a tle wer in the age .
of the ors are ose to the ion ary , so ere are no ent
123 ing ith ple ses .
if ere are 123 ent oes for the 123 git ses , it is tly ess ous how to use the 123 zed res of a est age for ion .
one ity is to use a ion set to ain a tic ion ork hat kes the zed log ies ven by the oes and rts hem nto a ity ion oss the 123 els .
ure 123 ows the hts in a tic
rey e .
ton
ure 123 : the ter row is sly een ges of 23s .
( top ) xel oba - ies hen the age is ted rom the ary ies of 123 ure ors hat ave een ned on 23s .
( tom ) xel ies for con - ons rom the ary tes of 123 ure ors ned on 23s .
log res of oth els on ing ata
log res der oth els on est ata
ore der 123
ore der 123
ure 123 : ( a ) the zed log ity res of the ing ges of the its 123 and 123 der the ned oes for 123 and 123
( b ) the log ity res for sly een est ges of 23s and 23s .
ote the ood ion of the two ses .
ion ork hat is ned ter ing 123 poe els to the 123 ate git ses .
in der to see her the ond den ers ere ing ful ive ion , ach poe ded two res .
the rst ore was the zed log ity of the xel ies der a poe del hat ted of the its in the rst den yer .
the ond ore was the zed log ity of the ies of ion of the rst yer of den its der a poe del hat ted of the its in the ond den yer .
the hts in ure 123 how hat the ond yer of den its des ful nal ion .
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : the zed log ity res of the sly een est ges of 23s and 23s .
ugh the ses are not rly ble , all the ors are ose to the est ing ine , so ere are no ent ors .
bly his is use it res the way in ich res ted in the rst den yer are ted .
a ond - vel del uld be ble to ign igh res to the ors of den ies hat are cal of the rst - vel 123 del hen it is ven ges of 23s and low res to the den ies of the rst - vel 123 del hen it is ven ges hat ain ons of res hat are not lly ent at the ame ime in a 123
the ror ate is 23% ich res ery bly ith the 23% ror ate of a ple est - bor ier on the ame ing and est ets and is out the ame as the ery est ier sed on tic els of the its ( vow , ams , & ton , 123 ) .
if 23% cts are wed ( by ing an ate old for the ity vel of the ost ble ass ) , ere are no ors on the 123 est ges .
ral ent ork res ere ied for the git - cic oes , and the lts ted are for the ure hat did est on the est ata .
ugh his is cal of rch on ing hms , the act hat est ata ere sed for del ion ans hat the ted lts are a sed ate of the nce on ely een est ges .
raz and ton ( 123 ) ort ood ive lts for the ger ist ase , and hey ere ful to do all the del ion ing ets of the ing ata so hat the ial est ata ere sed nly to ure the nal ror ate .
rey e .
ton
ure 123 : the hts ned by ing ial tic ion on the ing ata ith the els as uts and the zed log ity res rom the ned , git - cic oes as uts .
ach umn nds to a git ass , ing ith git 123
the top row is the ses for the ses .
the ext 123 ows are the hts ned to the res hat ent the log ity of the els der the del ned by the rst den yer of ach poe .
the ast 123 ows are the hts ned to the res hat ent the log ies of the ies on the rst den yer der the del ned by the ond den yer .
ote hat ugh the hts in the ast 123 ows are ler , hey are ill ite rge , ich ows hat the res rom the ond den ers ide ful , nal ive ion .
ote lso hat the res ced by the 123 del ide ful nce in vor of 23s .
123 how ood is the ion ?
the act hat the ing ure in ion 123 ves ood lts in the ons bed in ons 123 , 123 , and 123 sts hat it is afe to ore the nal erm in the ght - and ide of ion 123 hat mes rom the nge in the ion 123
to get an dea of the ive ude of the erm hat is ing ig - red , ive ons ere med ing ted ann nes ith all ers of ble and den its .
by ing ons hat are ial in the ber of den its and the
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : ( a ) a ram of the nts in the ive nce as a ult of ing ion 123 to orm one ate of the hts in ach of 123 rks .
the ted ues on the ght - and ide of ion 123 ere ted tly .
the rks had ght ble and our den its .
the ial hts ere mly sen rom a ian ith ean 123 and ard ion 123
the ing ata ere sen at dom .
( b ) the nts in the log ood of the ata for 123 rks sen in tly the ame way as in ure 23a .
ote hat the log ood sed in two ses .
the ges in the log ood are the ame as the ges in 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
but ith a
it is lso ble to ure hat ens to 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
ber of ble its , it is ble to ute the act ues of ( cid : 123 ) isj ( cid : 123 ) 123
hen the ion in ion 123 is sed to ate the hts by an unt hat is rge red ith the cal ion of the ine but all red ith the ure of the ive nce .
the bms sed for ese ons had dom ing ata and ran - dom hts .
hey did not ave ses on the ble or den its .
the ain ult can be zed as ows : for an ual ght , the ght - and ide of ion 123 , med ver all ing ses , ion - lly ers in ign rom the eft - and ide .
but for rks ing ore han two its in ach yer it is ost ain hat a lel ate of all the hts sed on the ght - and ide of ion 123 ill ove the ive nce .
in her rds , hen we age ver the ain - ing ata , the tor of ter tes ven by the ght - and ide is ost ain to ave a ive ine ith the rue ent ned by the eft - and ide .
ure 23a is a ram of the nts in the ive nce hen ion 123 was sed to orm one par - lel ght ate in ach of 123 , 123 rks .
the rks ned ght ble and our den its , and eir hts ere sen rom a ian ion ith ean ero and ard ion 123
ith ler hts or ger rks , the ion in ion 123 is
rey e .
ton
ure 23b ows hat the ing ure oes not ays ove the log ood of the ing ata , ugh it has a ong ncy to do so .
ote hat nly 123 rks ere sed for his ram .
ure 123 res the ons to the ent of the ive nce ade by the ght - and ide of ion 123 and by the erm hat is ing red .
the tor of ght tes ven by ion 123 kes the ive nce rse if the ots in ure 123 are ove the nal ine , so it is ear hat in ese rks , the ion in
ion 123 is ite afe .
ely , we ect 123 to lie een 123 and p
ser to 123 , the ges so hen the ers are ged to ove p
uld lso ove 123
the red ges in 123 an ent in the ive nce ( ich is hat ure 123
ard 123 and way rom the ous ion of p
uld use an ase in 123
it is ing to ret the ing ule in ion 123 as ate
ion of the ive log ood : ( cid : 123 ) 123 ( cid : 123 ) log p
ely , the ive log ood can eve its mum lue of 123 by ply ing all ble ors in the ata ace lly ble .
the ive nce ers rom the ive log ike - ood by ing the ies of the ons 123 and 123 ion 123 ) , and so the igh opy of 123 les out the ion in ich all ble ata ors are ble .
123 her pes of ert
ary tic els are not ble for ing sed ges of ten its in ich ink and und are ted as 123 and 123
in eal ges , ver , ere is lly ery igh ual for - ion een the eal - ued ity of one xel and the eal - ued ies of its ors .
his not be red by els hat use bi - ary tic els use a ary xel can ver ave ore han 123 bit of ual ion ith ing .
it is ble to use ial pix - els hat ave n ete ues .
his is a msy ion for ges use it ils to ure the ity and one - ity of xel ity , ugh it may be ful for her pes of ata .
a ter ach is to ine ing ach ble nit so hat a xel nds to a ole set of ary ble its hat all ave cal hts to the den its .
the ber of ive its in the set can hen ate a eal - ued in - ity .
ing ion , the ber of ive its ill be lly ted , and use all the cas ave the ame hts , the gle ity hat ols his ial ion eds to be ted nly nce .
the ame ick can be sed to low ted den its to
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : a ter lot hat ows the ive des of the led and led cts of a lel ght ate on the ive nce .
the 123 rks sed for his ure ave 123 ble and 123 den its , and eir hts are awn rom a ero - ean ian ith a ard ion of 123
the tal xis ows ( 123 ( cid : 123 ) p ) ( 123 ( cid : 123 ) p
( new ) ) ere old and new ote the ons ore and ter the ght ate .
his led ion in the ive nce ers rom the rue ion use it res the act hat ing the hts ges the ion of the one - tep ons .
the ase in the ( new ) ( cid : 123 ) p
ive nce due to the red erm , 123 is ted on the cal xis .
nts ove the nal ine uld ond to ses in ich the led ase hed the led ase , so hat the net ect was to ake the ive nce rse .
ote hat the led cts ost ays use an nal ent in the ive nce her han ing in ict ith the led cts .
ate eal ues ing lly ted ger tes .
a set of ted its can be wed as a lly eap ion to its ose hts lly fer , or it can be wed as a ary ion to the ior of a gle nit ver ime , in ich ase the ber of ive cas is a ing ate .
teh and ton ( 123 ) ave own hat his ype of ate ing can be ite ive for ing eal - ued ges of ces , ded the ges are zed .
an ive to ing den its is to use tor rts hat ach ist of a ure of a orm ion and a tor zer
rey e .
ton
ith ust one tor .
ach ert has a ary ent ble hat ies her to use the orm or the tor zer and a eal - ued ent ble hat ies the lue of the tor ( if it is ing sed ) .
the tor zer has ree ets of ers : a tor of tor ngs hat pec - ify the ion of the tor in age ace , a tor of ans in age ace , and a tor of ces in age ace . 123 rts of his ype ave een red in the ext of ted lic phs ( ton , ans , & ani , 123 ) , but hey uld ork ter in a poe .
an ive to ing a rge ber of ely ple rts is to ake ach ert as ted as ble , ile ing the ity to ute the act ive of the log ood of the ata ith ect to the ers of an ert .
in ing tic ges , for ple , ach ert uld be a ure of any xis - ned ans .
ome rts ght cus on one ion of an age by ing ery igh ces for els ide hat ion .
but so ong as the ons led by ent rts lap , it uld be ble to oid ock ary cts .
123 cts of den kov els .
den kov els ( mms ) are of eat cal lue in ing ces of ete ols or ces of eal - ued ors use ere is an ent thm for ing the ers of the hmm to ove the log ike - ood of a set of ved ces .
mms are , ver , ite ted in eir ive wer use the nly way hat the ion of a ing ted up to ime t can ain the ion of the ing ted ter ime t is by the ete den ate of the tor at ime t .
so if the rst art of a ing has , on age , n its of ual ion ith the est of the ing , the hmm ust ave 23n den tes to vey his ual in - ion by its ice of den ate .
his ial ncy can be ome by ing a uct of mms as a tor .
ing ion , ach hmm ets to ick a den ate at ach ime so the ual rma - ion een the ast and the ure can be ear in the ber of mms .
it is ore lly ore ent to ave any all mms han one big one .
ver , to ply the ard ard - ard thm to a uct of mms , it is ary to ake the oss - uct of eir ate - ces , ich ows way the ial win .
for cts of mms to be of cal nce , it is ary to nd an ent way to ain
rew own ( own & ton , 123 ) has own hat the ing thm in ion 123 rks ell .
the ard - ard thm is sed to get the ent of the log ood of an ved or ted
123 the ast two ets of ers are tly ent to the ers of a uni - uss ert ced in ion 123 , so a uss ert can be red to be a ure of a orm ith a tor zer hat has no ors .
ing cts of rts
ure 123 : a den kov del .
the rst and ird des ave put dis - ons hat are orm oss all rds .
if the rst ode has a igh ion ity to elf , ost ngs of ish rds are ven the ame low rob - ity by his ert .
ngs hat ain the ord hut wed tly or tly by the ord up ave her ity der his ert .
nce ith ect to the ers of an ual ert .
the one - tep ion of a nce is ted as ows :
ven an ved nce , use the ard - ard thm in ach ert ely to ate the ior ity ibu - ion ver ths ugh the den tes .
for ach ert , lly ect a den ath rom the ior
ven the ved nce .
at ach ime tep , ect an put bol or put tor rom the uct of the put ons ied by the ted den ate of ach hmm .
if ore tic cts of mms can be ned lly by ini - ing the ive nce , hey uld be ter han gle mms for any ent nds of ial ata .
der , for ple , the hmm own in ure 123
his ert ely res a cal ity .
a gle hmm hat ust lso del all the her ies in ngs of ish rds uld not ure his ity tly use it uld not ord to ote its ire ory ity to ing her the ord hut had ady red in the ing .
ere ave een ous pts to arn ons by ing ers to cel out the cts of ief ion in a ent ork ( ton & and , 23; lly , 23; ung , 123 ) , but ese ere
rey e .
ton
not ted ing a tic ive del and an ate
ing ive nce has an ted ity to the ing thm sed by ton ( 123 ) .
ons ram com - red hes ade of cks ith ear ses ied by a her , and it sed the ces in its ons of the ect and ect hes to ide ich cts of its ion ere ant .
by ing a tic ive del , we can nse ith the her , but it is ill the ces een the eal ata and the ear ses ted by the del hat ive the ing of the ant res .
123 mic ion ols .
the dea of ing the ons of ple ent ert els by ing a ted age in the log ity ain is far rom new ( est & dek , 23; kes , 123 ) , but rch has sed on how to nd the est hts for ing rts hat ave ady een ned or med ely ( ger , lla tra , & lla tra , 123 ) her han ing the rts ely .
the ric ean of a set of ity ons has the ive rty hat its ack - ler nce rom the rue ion , p , is ler han the age of the ack - ler ces of the ual ons , q :
p ( cid : 123 ) qwm
mkl ( p ( cid : 123 ) qm )
ere the wm are ive and sum to 123 , and z = ( cid : 123 ) m ( c ) .
hen all of the ual els are cal , z = 123
ise , z is ess han one , and the nce een the two des of ion 123 is log ( 123 / z ) .
his kes it ear hat the net of ing ery ent rts mes rom the act hat hey ake z all , lly in rts of the ata ace hat do not ain ata .
it is ing to ent oes by ing ach ert , m , an nal ive ter , wm , hat les its log ies .
ver , his kes nce uch ore ult ( yee - hye teh , nal ion , 123 ) .
der , for ple , an ert ith wm = 123
his is ent to ing 123 ies of an ert but ith eir ent tes all ied her , and his ing cts the nce .
it is ier to x wm = 123 and low the poe ing thm to ine the ate ess of the
123 hip to ing .
hin the sed ing era - ure , ods uch as ing or ing mpt to ake rts dif - ent rom one her by ing ent , or tly ted , ing ata .
ter ing , ese ods use the ted age of the out - uts of the ual rts .
the way in ich the uts are ned
ing cts of rts
is ate for a nal poe del in ich the put of an ndi - ual ert is the ean of a ian , its ght is the rse nce of the ian , and the ned put is the ean of the uct of all the ual ans .
mel and ssi ( 123 ) ave tly own hat his iew ows a ion of ing to be ved as a edy hod of ing a ble ive ion .
the act hat ing rks ell for sed ing sts hat it uld be ied for sed ing .
in ing , the rts are ned lly , and ach new ert is ted to ata hat ave een ted so hat ata ors hat are led ell by the ing ex - rts ive ery tle ght and nce ake ery tle ion to the ent for the new ert .
a poe ts all the rts at nce , but it ves an ect lar to ing by ing the ent of the ted ata so hat ere is ery tle ing on ata hat are al - ady led ell .
one big age of a poe ver ing is hat a poe can cus the ing on the rts of a ing tor hat ave igh re - ion ors .
his ows oes to arn cal res .
ith ing , an ire ing ase ves a gle lar ght her han a tor of ion ors , so hen ing is sed for sed ing , it oes not so ily ver cal res .
123 son ith ted lic cal els .
nce in a poe is ial use the rts are lly ble and the rod - uct ion res hat the den tes of ent rts are ndi - lly ent ven the ata . 123 his kes hem ant as els of cal ual ems , ich ust be ble to do nce ery dly .
ive hes sed on ted lic cal els ( eal , 123 ) fer rom the ing - way non .
hen uch cal els are ely ted , act nce is ble , so it is ary to ort to ver but bly low ive ues for ate nce ( aul & dan , 123 ) or to use ude ima - ons hat ore ing way ing nce and ely on the ing thm to nd ons for ich the ddy nce que is not too ing ( ton et al . , 123 ) .
ely , the ase of nce in oes is ced by the lty of ing asy ata rom the del .
his can be one lly in one ral ass in a ted lic cal del but res an ive ure uch as bbs ing in a poe .
if , ver , ion 123 is sed for ing , the lty of ing les rom the del is not a
in ion to the ase of nce hat lts rom the nal in - nce of the rts ven the ata , oes ave a ore tle ad -
123 his ses to be rue hen ere are ing ata .
rey e .
ton
age ver ive els hat ork by rst ing ues for the ent les and hen ing a ata tor rom ese ent ues .
if uch a del has a gle den yer and the ent les ave ent ior ons , ere ill be a ong ncy for the ior ues of the ent les in a ell - ted del to ect the nal nce hat urs hen the del tes ata . 123 for his son , ere has een tle ess ith pts to arn uch gen - ive els one den yer at a ime in a edy , tom - up way .
ith oes , ver , ven ugh the rts ave ent ors , the ent les in ent rts ill be lly ent : hey can be hly ted oss ses ven for asy ata ted by the poe elf .
so ter the rst den yer has een ned ily , ere may ill be ots of cal ure in the ent les for the ond den yer to ure .
ere is ore ome ope hat an en - ely sed ork uld arn to act a chy of pre - ons rom hes of eal ges , but ess ard his oal re - res an ive way of ing ith eal - ued ata .
the pes of ex - ert hat ave een ted so far ave not med as ell as nde - ent ent sis at ing res ike ges rom ral
the ost ive rty of a set of nal sis ons is hat it is ble to ute the ent on ach sis ion ely out ing out the nts on her sis ons .
a poe ins his ive rty ile ing nal rts and a ear ive del .
123 ral ons een den its .
the ase of ing the tes of the den its ( ent les ) ven the ata is a jor age of oes .
his age ars to be ost if the ent les of ent rts are wed to act tly .
if , for ple , ere are ect , cal ons een the den its in a ted ann ine , it mes ble to fer the act ion ver den tes hen ven the ble tes .
ver , ary ons how hat the ive nce dea can ill be ied lly ing a ped ean - eld hod to nd an ing ion ver the den its for oth the ata tor and its con - ion .
the ing ure hen has the ing eps for ach ata
123 his is asy to and rom a ing ive in ich the ata are mmu - ted by rst ing the tes of the ent les der an ent ior and hen ing the ata ven the ent tes .
if the ent tes are not lly in - ent , his ing eme is ent , so ure ard ing ncy tes ure ard nce .
ing cts of rts
ith the ata tor ped on the ble its , ute the tal tom - up put , xj , to ach den nit , j , and ize it to ave eal - ued ate , 123
= ( xj ) , ere ( . ) is the tic ion .
orm 123 ped ean - eld ons in ich ach den nit
tes its tal ral put yt j at ime t ,
and hen sts its ate , qt
+ 123 ( xj + yt
lso ure 123
for ach air of a ble nit , i , and a den nit , j .
for all irs of den its , j , k .
ick a nal ary ate for ach den nit , j , ing to 123 use ese ary tes to ate a ted ata tor .
orm one ore ped ean - eld ion on the den its ing rom the nal ate und ith the ata , but ing the tom - up put rom the ion her han the ata .
ure the ame ics as ove .
ate ery ght in ion to the nce in the red
ics in eps 123 and 123
it is ary for the ean - eld ons to rge for his oce - ure to ork , ich may ire ing or ing the hts on the ral ons .
the ual hat the ean - eld ion is ess for dal may not be ant for arn - ing a ual tem , nce it kes nse to oid ing els of the rld in ich ere are ple , ery ent ons of the ame ory put .
ive nce ing ses the lem of ing the hly dal ium ion hat lts if oth ble and den its are ped .
it oes his by ing hat the ved ata ver all of the ent des ith hly the ght ncy for ach ode .
the act hat the ial ons ork is ery ing nce net - rks ith ple den ers can ays be wed as rks hat ave a gle lly ted den yer ith any of the ral and ard ons ing .
ver , the ime ken for the net - ork to tle ans hat rks ith ral ons are bly wer han ely ard rks , and ore rch is red to ate hat the oss of eed is rth the tra nal
rey e .
ton
a uch ler way to use xed ral ons is to ide the den its nto lly ive ols .
hin ach ool , tly one den nit is wed to urn on , and his nit is sen ing the max
pj = exp ( xj )
sly , his ype of tic ner - ake - all ion ong the den its has no ect ver on the ive nce ing ule .
the ing oes not ven eed to now ich den its ete ith ach her .
the ion can be ted in a ery ple way by ing ach den nit , j , be a son ess ith a ate of exp ( xj ) .
the rst nit to mit a ike is the ner .
the her its in the ool uld hen be hut off by an ory nit hat is ted by the ner .
if the ool is wed to uce a xed ber of kes ore ing hut off , the ing ule ins red , but ies ike sj may ake on ger ues ger han 123
if a den nit is wed to be a ber of ral ent ing ols , the sis ets uch ore ult , and ore rch is ded .
123 hip to sis - by - sis .
oes ide an ent ion of the old cal dea of sis - by - sis .
his dea ver ked rly use the ive els ere not ted to ake the sis asy .
in a poe , it is ult to ate ata rom the ive del , but ven the del , it is asy to ute how any ven ata tor ght ave een ted , and , as we ave een , it is ely asy to arn the ers of the ive del .
lly , the ive els hat are ost ate for sis - by - sis may be the nes in ich sis is ble .
his rch was ded by the sby ble ion .
nks to bin ani , vid kay , ter yan , ord eal , vid owe , yee - hye teh , guy raz , ndy own , and her ers of the sby nit for ful ons and to the ees for any ful nts hat ved the cle .
