ost ent ech ion ems use den kov els ( mms ) to eal ith the ral ity of ech and ian ure els to ine how ell ach ate of ach hmm ts a ame or a ort dow of mes of nts hat nts the tic put .
an ive way to ate the t is to use a eed - ard ral ork hat kes ral mes of nts as put and ces ior ies ver hmm tes as put .
eep ral rks ith any den ers , hat are ned ing new ods ave een own to orm ian ure els on a ety of ech ion rks , mes by a rge gin .
his per des an iew of his ess and nts the red ews of our rch ups who ave had ent ses in ing eep ral rks for tic ing in ech ion .
new ine ing hms can ead to ant ces in tic ech ion .
the est
gle nce red rly our des ago ith the ion of the ion - ion ( em )
thm for ing den kov els ( mms ) ( see ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) for ive cal ews of the
ion of mms ) .
ith the em thm , it ame ble to lop ech ion ems for
eal rld sks ing the ess of ian ure els ( gmm ) ( 123 ) to ent the hip een
hmm tes and the tic put .
in ese ems the tic put is lly ted by ing
mel ncy ral nts ( ccs ) or ual ear ive nts ( lps ) ( 123 ) ted
rom the raw orm , and eir rst - and ond - der ral ces ( 123 ) .
his non - ive but hly -
red pre - ing of the orm is ned to ard the rge unt of ion in rms hat
is red to be ant for ion and to ess the ing ion in a orm hat tes
ion ith gmm - mms .
mms ave a ber of ges hat ake hem ble for ing the ity ons ver
ors of put res hat are ted ith ach ate of an hmm .
ith ugh nts , hey can del
ton , ahl , med , and tly are ith the ity of nto .
eng and yu are ith oft rch .
ior , cke and yen are ith gle rch .
ath and ury are ith ibm rch .
ril 123 , 123
ity ons to any red vel of acy and hey are rly asy to t to ata ing the em
thm .
a uge unt of rch has one nto ays of ing mms to ase eir ion eed
and to ize the ade - off een eir ity and the unt of ing ata ble to oid ous
the ion acy of a gmm - hmm tem can be her ved if it is ely ne - ned
ter it has een ely ned to ize its ity of ing the ved ata , lly if
the ive ive ion sed for ing is ely ted to the ror ate on nes , rds or
ces ( 123 ) .
the acy can lso be ved by ing ( or ing ) the put res ( e . g . , ccs )
ith dem or eck res ted ing ral rks ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
mms are so ful hat it is
ult for any new hod to orm hem for tic ing .
ite all eir ges , mms ave a ous ing hey are lly ent for ing
ata hat lie on or ear a non - ear old in the ata ace .
for ple , ing the set of nts hat lie ery
ose to the ace of a ere nly res a few ers ing an ate del ass , but it res a
ery rge ber of nal ans or a rly rge ber of ull - nce ans .
ech is ced
by ing a ely all ber of ers of a cal tem ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and his ies hat its rue
ing ure is uch wer - nal han is ely ent in a dow hat ins eds
of nts .
we eve , ore , hat her pes of del may ork ter han mms for tic ing
if hey can ore ely oit ion ded in a rge dow of mes .
ial ral rks ned by ing ror ves ave the ial to arn uch ter
els of ata hat lie on or ear a non - ear old .
in act two des ago , ers ved ome ess
ing ial ral rks ith a gle yer of non - ear den its to ict hmm tes rom ows
of tic nts ( 123 ) .
at hat ime , ver , her the are nor the ing hms ere ate
for ing ral rks ith any den ers on rge nts of ata and the nce ets of
ing ral rks ith a gle den yer ere not tly rge to sly nge mms
ult , the ain cal ion of ral rks at hat ime was to ide tra res in dem or
ver the ast few ars , ces in oth ine ing hms and ter are ave led to ore
ent ods for ing eep ral rks ( nns ) hat ain any ers of non - ear den its and
a ery rge put yer .
the rge put yer is red to ate the rge ber of hmm tes hat
ise hen ach one is led by a ber of ent one mms hat ake nto unt the nes on
her ide .
ven hen any of the tes of ese one mms are ied her , ere can be nds of ied
tes .
ing the new ing ods , ral ent rch ups ave own hat nns can orm
mms at tic ing for ech ion on a ety of ets ing rge ets ith rge
his iew per ims to ent the red ews of rch ups at the ity of nto , oft
rch ( msr ) , gle and ibm rch , who ave all had ent ses in ing nns for tic
ril 123 , 123
ing .
the per rts by ing the two - age ing ure hat is sed for ing the nns .
in the
rst age , ers of ure ors are zed , one yer at a ime , by ing a ack of ive els ,
ach of ich has one yer of ent les .
ese ive els are ned out ing any ion
out the hmm tes hat the tic del ill eed to ate .
in the ond age , ach ive del
in the ack is sed to ize one yer of den its in a dnn and the ole ork is hen ely
ne - ned to ict the get hmm tes .
ese ets are ned by ing a ine gmm - hmm tem to
uce a ced ent .
in his per we iew ory nts on the mit ase ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) hat ere sed to ate
the wer of his two - age ing ure for tic ing .
the nns hat ked ell on mit ere
hen ied to ve ent rge ary , ous ech ion sks by ree ent rch ups
ose lts we lso ize .
the nns ked ell on all of ese sks hen red ith hly - ned
gmm - hmm ems and on ome of the sks hey med the ate - of - the - art by a rge gin .
we lso
ibe ome her ses of nns for tic ing and ome ons on the ing ure .
ing eep ral rks
a eep ral ork ( dnn ) is a eed - ard , ial ral ork hat has ore han one yer of den its een its uts and its uts .
ach den nit , j , lly ses the tic 123 to map its tal
put rom the yer low , xj , to the lar ate , yj hat it nds to the yer ove .
yj = tic ( xj ) =
123 + exj
xj = bj +xi
ere bj is the ias of nit j , i is an dex ver its in the yer low , and wij is a the ght on a ion
to nit j rom nit i in the yer low .
for ass ion , put nit j rts its tal put , xj , nto
a ass ity , pj , by ing the max non - ity :
ere k is an dex ver all ses .
nns can be ely ned by ing ves of a ost ion hat res the
ncy een the get uts and the ual uts ced for ach ing ase ( 123 ) .
hen ing the
max put ion , the ral ost ion c is the oss - opy een the get ies d and the
uts of the max , p :
ere the get ies , lly ing ues of one or ero , are the sed ion ded to
c = xj
dj log pj ,
ain the dnn ier .
the ely ted lic ent is lso ten sed and any ion ith a ell - ved ive can be sed .
ril 123 , 123
for rge ing ets , it is lly ore ent to ute the ves on a all , dom ini - tch
of ing ses , her han the ole ing set , ore ing the hts in ion to the ent
tic ent ent hod can be her ved by ing a tum ent , 123 < < 123 , hat
ths the ent ted for ini - tch t , eby ing ons oss nes and ing ess
the ate ule for ses can be ved by ing hem as hts on ons ing rom its hat ays
wij ( t ) = wij ( t 123 )
ave a ate of 123
to uce ing , rge hts can be zed in ion to eir red ude , or the ing
can ply be ted at the int at ich nce on a eld - out ion set rts ing rse ( 123 )
nns ith ull ity een ent ers , the ial hts are ven all dom ues to ent
all of the den its in a yer rom ing tly the ame ent .
nns ith any den ers are ard to ize .
ent ent rom a dom ing int ear the
gin is not the est way to nd a ood set of hts and ess the ial les of the hts are lly
sen ( 123 ) , the ted nts ill ave ery ent des in ent ers .
in ion to
the ion ues , nns may ize rly to eld - out est ata .
nns ith any den ers and
any its per yer are ery ble els ith a ery rge ber of ers .
his kes hem ble of
ing ery lex and hly non - ear ips een uts and uts .
his ity is ant
for igh - ity tic ing , but it lso ows hem to del ous ies hat are an tal
rty of the lar les in the ing set , ich can ead to ere ing .
ght ies or
rly - ing can uce the ing but nly by ing uch of the ing wer .
ery rge ing ets
( 123 ) can uce ing lst ing ing wer , but nly by ing ing ery lly
ive .
hat we eed is a ter hod of ing the ion in the ing set to ild ple ers of
non - ear ure ors .
ive pre - ing
ead of ing ure ors to be ood for ing een ses , we can art by ing
hem to be ood at ing the ure in the put ata .
the dea is to arn one yer of ure ors at
a ime ith the tes of the ure ors in one yer ing as the ata for ing the ext yer .
ter his
ive pre - ing , the ple ers of ure ors can be sed as a uch ter ing int for
a ive ne - ing ase ing ich ion ugh the dnn tly sts the hts
und in pre - ing ( 123 ) .
ome of the igh - vel res ted by the ive pre - ing ill be of tle
use for ion , but ers ill be far ore ful han the raw uts .
the ive pre - ing nds a
ion of the ght - ace hat ows the ive ne - ing to ake pid ess , and it lso tly
ces ing ( 123 ) .
ril 123 , 123
a gle yer of ure ors can be ned by ing a ive del ith one yer of ent les
to the put ata .
ere are two oad ses of ive del to ose rom .
a ted del tes
ata by rst ing the tes of the ent les rom a ior ion and hen ing the tes of the
ble les rom eir nal ons ven the ent tes .
les of ted els ith
one yer of ent les are tor sis , in ich the ent les are awn rom an pic ian ,
and mms , in ich hey are awn rom a ete ion .
an ted del has a ery ent way of
ing ata .
ead of ing one set of ers to ene a ior ion ver the ent les and a
ate set of ers to ene the nal ons of the ble les ven the ues of the
ent les , an ted del ses a gle set of ers , w , to ene the int ity of a tor
of ues of the ble les , v , and a tor of ues of the ent les , h , via an rgy ion ,
p ( v , h; w ) =
ere z is led the ion ion .
ee ( v , h;w ) , z = xv , h
if any ent ent les act non - rly to ate ach ata tor , it is ult to fer the tes
of the ent les rom the ved ata in a ted del use of a non own as ing
way ( 123 ) .
in ted els , ver , nce is asy ded the ent les do not ave ges ing
uch a ted ass of ted els is eal for ise pre - ing use ach yer ill ave
an asy nce ure .
we art by ing an ate ing thm for a ted ann ine ( rbm ) ich
sts of a yer of tic ary ble its hat ent ary put ata ted to a yer of
tic ary den its hat arn to del ant non - ies een the ble its ( 123 )
are ted ons een ble and den its but no ble - ble or den - den ons .
an rbm is a ype of kov dom eld ( mrf ) but ers rom ost rfs in ral ays : it has a ite
ity ph; it oes not lly are hts een ent ts; and a set of the les are
ved , ven ing ing .
an ent ing ure for bms
a int ion , ( v , h ) of the ble and den its of an rbm has an rgy ven by :
e ( v , h ) = ble
ere vi , hj are the ary tes of ble nit i and den nit j , ai , bj are eir ses and wij is the ght
een hem .
the ork gns a ity to ery ble air of a ble and a den tor via his
rgy ion as in eqn .
( 123 ) and the ity hat the ork gns to a ble tor , v , is ven by
ing ver all ble den ors :
ril 123 , 123
the ive of the log ity of a ing set ith ect to a ght is gly ple :
ere n is the ize of the ing set and the gle ets are sed to ote ons der the ion
ied by the ipt hat ows .
the ple ive in eqn . ( 123 ) ads to a ery ple ing ule for
ing tic est ent in the log ity of the ing ata :
wij = ( ata del )
ere is a ing ate .
the nce of ect ons een den its in an rbm kes it is ery asy to get an sed
ple of ata .
ven a mly ted ing ase , v , the ary ate , hj , of ach den nit , j , is
set to 123 ith ity
and ihj is hen an sed ple .
the nce of ect ons een ble its in an rbm kes
p ( hj = 123 | v ) = tic ( bj +xi
it ery asy to get an sed ple of the ate of a ble nit , ven a den tor
p ( vi = 123 | h ) = tic ( ai +xj
ing an sed ple of < ihj del , ver , is uch ore ult .
it can be one by ing at
any dom ate of the ble its and ing ing bbs ing for a ery ong ime .
ing
bbs ing sts of ing all of the den its in lel ing eqn . ( 123 ) wed by ing all of
the ble its in lel ing eqn . ( 123 ) .
a uch ter ing ure led ive nce ( cd ) was sed in ( 123 ) .
his rts by
ing the tes of the ble its to a ing tor .
hen the ary tes of the den its are all ted
in lel ing eqn . ( 123 ) .
nce ary tes ave een sen for the den its , a ion is ced
by ing ach vi to 123 ith a ity ven by eqn . ( 123 ) .
lly , the tes of the den its are ted
the nge in a ght is hen ven by
wij = ( ata con )
a ied ion of the ame ing ule hat ses the tes of ual its ead of ise cts
is sed for the ses .
ive nce rks ell ven ugh it is nly ely ing the ent of the log ity
of the ing ata ( 123 ) .
bms arn ter ive els if ore eps of ing bbs ing are sed
ore ing the ics for the ond erm in the ing ule , but for the ses of pre - ing ure
ors , ore ons are lly of tle lue and all the lts wed ere ere ned ing
123 ich oes a gle ull tep of ing bbs ing ter the ial ate of the den its .
to ess ise in the ing , the eal - ued ies her han ary les are lly sed for the
ril 123 , 123
ons and the ent tes of the den its , but it is ant to use led ary ues for the
rst ion of the den tes use the ing ise cts as a ery ive zer hat nts
ing eal - ued ata
eal - ued ata , uch as ccs , are ore lly led by ear les ith ian ise and the
rbm rgy ion can be ied to ate uch les , ing a ian - lli rbm ( rbm ) :
e ( v , h ) = vis
ere i is the ard ion of the ian ise for ble nit i .
the two nal ons red for 123 ing are :
p ( j|v ) = tic bj +xi p ( i|h ) = n ai + ixj
ere n ( , 123 ) is a ian .
ing the ard ons of a rbm is tic for ons bed
in ( 123 ) , so for pre - ing ing 123 , the ata are zed so hat ach ent has ero ean and nit nce , the ard ons are set to 123 hen ing p ( v|h ) , and no ise is ded to the ons .
his ids the sue of ing the ght ise vel .
ing bms to ake a eep ief ork
ter ing an rbm on the ata , the red tes of the den its can be sed as ata for ing
her rbm hat rns to del the ant ies een the den its of the rst rbm
can be ted as any mes as red to uce any ers of non - ear ure ors hat ent
ely ore lex cal ure in the ata .
the bms in a ack can be ned in a ing
way to uce a gle , lti - yer ive del led a eep ief net ( dbn ) ( 123 ) .
ven ugh ach rbm is an ted del , the dbn 123 med by the ole ack is a rid ive del ose top two ers
are ted ( hey are the nal rbm in the ack ) but ose wer ers ave top - own , ted ons
( see ure 123 ) .
to and how bms are sed nto a dbn it is ful to ite eqn . ( 123 ) and to ake cit the
nce on w :
p ( v; w ) =xh
p ( h; w ) p ( |h; w ) ,
not to be sed ith a mic ian net ich is a ype of ted del of ral ata hat ely has the ame
ril 123 , 123
the nce of ons sed to ate a dbn ith ree den ers and to ert it to a pre - ned dbn - dnn .
rst a
rbm is ned to del a dow of mes of eal - ued tic nts .
hen the tes of the ary den its of the rbm
are sed as ata for ing an rbm .
his is ted to ate as any den ers as red .
hen the ack of bms is ted
to a gle ive del , a dbn , by ing the ted ons of the wer vel bms by top - own , ted ons .
lly , a pre - ned dbn - dnn is ted by ing a max put yer hat ins one nit for ach ble ate of ach hmm .
the dbn - dnn is hen ely ned to ict the hmm ate ing to the ral ame of the put dow in a ced
ere p ( h; w ) is ned as in eqn . ( 123 ) but ith the les of the ble and den its sed .
now it is
ear hat the del can be ved by ing p ( |h; w ) xed ter ing the rbm , but ing the ior
ver den ors p ( h; w ) by a ter ior , i . e .
a ior hat is ser to the ted ior ver den
ors hat can be led by rst ing a ing ase and hen ing a den tor ing eqn . ( 123 )
ted ior is tly hat the ext rbm in the ack is ned to del .
as own in ( 123 ) , ere is a ies of nal nds on the log ity of the ing ata , and ore ,
ach ime a new rbm is ded to the ack , the nal und on the new and per dbn is ter han the
ous nal und , ded the new rbm is zed and ned in the ght way .
ile the nce
of a und hat eps ing is lly ing , it oes not wer the cal sue , sed in
his iew per , of her the ned ure ors are ful for ion on a ask hat is own
ile ing the dbn .
nor oes it tee hat ing ves hen we use ent ort - uts uch as
123 ing of the bms .
ril 123 , 123
one ery ice rty of a dbn hat hes it rom her yer , ted , non - ear ive
els , is hat it is ble to fer the tes of the ers of den its in a gle ard ass .
his nce ,
ich is sed in ing the nal und , is not tly ect but it is rly ate .
so ter ing a
dbn by ing a ack of bms , we can son the ole tic ork and ply use the ive
hts in the rse ion as a way of ing all the ure ing ers of a tic eed - ard dnn .
we hen ust add a nal max yer and ain the ole dnn 123
ing a dnn ith an hmm
a dnn uts
p ( hm m put ) .
but to ute a rbi ent or to run the ard - ard thm
hin the hmm ork we ire the ood p ( |hm m ate ) .
the ior ies
hat the dnn uts can be ted nto the led ood by ing hem by the ies of the
hmm - tes in the ced ent hat is sed for ne - ing the dnn ( 123 ) .
all of the ods ced in
his way are led by the ame own tor of p ( put ) , but his has no ect on the ent .
ugh his ion ars to ave tle ect on ome ion sks , it can be ant for sks
ere ing els are hly ced ( e . g . , ith any mes of ces ) .
tic ion and ion on mit
the mit set des a ple and ent way of ing new hes to ech ion .
the ing set is all ugh to ake it ble to try any ons of a new hod and any ing
ues ave ady een ked on the ore est set so it is asy to see if a new ach is ing
by ing it ith ing ues hat ave een ted by eir nts ( 123 ) .
nce has
own hat nce nts on mit do not ily ate nto nce nts on
rge ary sks ith ess led ing ons and uch ore ing ata .
ess , mit
des a ood ing int for ing a new ach , lly one hat res a ing unt of
med et .
( 123 ) wed hat a dbn - dnn tic del med the est hed ion
lts on mit at out the ame ime as ath et .
( 123 ) ved a lar ent on mit by
ing ate - of - the - art ues ped for rge ary ion .
ent ork ned the
two hes by ing ate - of - the - art , ely ned ( dt ) ker - ent res as put to the
dbn - dnn ( 123 ) , but his ced tle her ent , bly use the den ers of the dbn - dnn
ere ady ing ite a ood job of ely ing ker ces ( 123 ) .
the dbn - nns hat ked est on the mit ata med the ing int for ent nts
on uch ore ing , rge ary sks hat ere too lly ive to low ive
ely , a dnn hat is pre - ned ely as a dbn is ten ill led a dbn in the ure .
for ity we all it a dbn - dnn .
ril 123 , 123
ons ong the ted ker - ent tic ion acy lts on mit ore est set ith 123 ces
ted nal dom lds ( 123 )
mly zed ent ral ets ( 123 )
ian one gmm - hmm ( 123 )
one tms ( 123 )
ous ers ( 123 )
one mly zed nns ( 123 ers ) ( 123 )
one dbn - nns ( 123 ers ) ( 123 )
one dbn - nns ith mmi ing ( 123 )
one gmm - mms ely ned w / mmi ( 123 )
one dbn - nns on ank ( 123 ers ) ( 123 )
one rbm - dbn - nns on ank ( 123 ers ) ( 123 )
one nal nns on ank ( 123 ers ) ( 123 )
ion of ons in the ure of the ral ork , the ion of the tic put or the
for ity , all den ers ays had the ame ize , but ven ith his int it was ble to
ain all ble ons of ber of den ers ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) , ber of its per yer ( 123 ,
123 , 123 , 123 ) and ber of mes of tic ata in the put yer ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ely ,
the nce of the rks on the mit ore est set was rly ive to the ise ils of the
ure and the lts in ( 123 ) est hat any ion of the ers in ace bly has an ror
ate hin out 23% of the ery est ion .
his ess is ial for ods uch as dbn - nns
hat ave a lot of ble eta - ers .
our ent ing is hat ple den ers ays ked
ter han one den yer and , ith ple den ers , pre - ing ays ved the lts on oth the
ent and est ets in the mit ask .
ils of the ing tes , ing ria , tum , 123 ght
ies and ini - tch ize for oth the pre - ing and ne - ing are ven in ( 123 ) .
ble i res dbn - nns ith a ety of her ods on the mit ore est set .
for ach ype of
dbn - dnn the ure hat med est on the ent set is ted .
all ods use ccs as
uts ept for the ree ked ank hat use log mel - ale ter - ank uts .
pre - ing the orm for eep ral rks
ate - of - the - art asr ems do not use ter - ank nts as the put ion use hey are
gly ted so ing hem ell res her ull nce ans or a uge ber of nal
ans .
ccs fer a ore ble ive as eir ual nts are hly ent so hey
are uch ier to del ing a ure of nal nce ans .
dbn - nns do not ire ted
ril 123 , 123
ata and , on the mit ase , the ork ted in ( 123 ) wed hat the est ing dbn - nns ned
ith ter - ank res had a one ror ate 23% wer han the est ing dbn - nns ned ith
ccs ( see ble i ) .
ine - ing dbn - nns to ize ual ion
in the nts ing mit sed ove , the nns ere ne - ned to ize the per ame oss -
opy een the get hmm ate and the ons .
the ion ers and age del res
ere ned rom an hmm - ike ach and ere ned tly of the dnn hts .
ver , it has
ong een own hat nce ion ria , ich are ore tly ted ith the all ord or
one ror ate , can be ery ful in ing ion acy ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) and the net of ing uch
nce ion ria ith low ral rks has ady een own by ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
in the ore
ent ork ted in ( 123 ) , one lar ype of nce ion ion , mum ual ion
or mmi , sed as rly as 123 ( 123 ) , was lly ied to arn dbn - dnn hts for the mit one
ion ask .
mmi zes the nal ity p ( 123 : t 123 : t ) of the ole nce of els , 123 : t , ith gth t , ven the ole ble ure nce 123 : t , or tly the den ure nce 123 : t ted by the dnn :
p ( 123 : t 123 : t ) = p ( 123 : t 123 : t ) =
123 jij ( 123 , lt ) +pt
ere the ion ure ij ( 123 , lt ) kes on a lue of one if 123 = i and lt = j , and ise kes on a lue of ero , ere ij is the ter ted ith his ion ure , htd is the d - th ion of
the den nit lue at the t - th ame at the nal yer of the dnn , and ere d is the ber of its in the
nal den yer .
ote the ive ion of eqn . ( 123 ) ved rom ual ion ( 123 ) is the ame as
the nal ood ted ith a zed ear - ain nal dom eld .
ere , it is the top
ost yer of the dnn low the max yer , not the raw ech nts of fcc or plp , hat des
res to the nal dom eld .
to ize the log nal ity p ( ln
123 : t ) of the n - th nce , we ake the ent ver the
ion ers kd , ion ers ij , and the wer - yer hts of the dnn , wij , ing to
t = k ) p ( ln
t = |vn
123 = i , ln
t = j ) p ( ln
123 = i , ln
t = |vn
t = |vn
123 : t ) kd ) hn
ote hat the ent log p ( ln 123 : t ) , vs
t = k ) p ( ln
t = |vn
t ) in the ame - sed ing thm .
ove can be wed as ack - ing the ror ( ln
t = k ) p ( ln
ril 123 , 123
in ing the ove ing thm for a dbn - dnn , the dnn hts can rst be ne - ned to
ize the per ame oss opy .
the ion ers can be zed rom the ion of the
hmm ion ces and the one age del res , and can be her zed by ing the
ion res ile ing the dnn hts ore the int ion .
ing the int ion ith
ful ing , we rve hat the ial mmi ing can orm the ame - vel ing by out
23% ive hin the ame tem in the ame ory .
nal nns for one ion and ion
the sly ted ork ted one ion lts on the mit ase .
in ion
nts , the put is the tic put for the ole nce ile the put is the ken tic nce .
a ing ess ing a one age del is sed to uce his put nce .
tic ion
is a ent ask ere the tic put has ady een led ith the ect ies een ent
tic its and the oal is to ify ese nes ned on the ven ies .
in ( 123 ) nal
dbn - nns ere ced and lly ied to ous dio sks ing one ion on the
mit ase .
in his del , the rbm was ade nal in ime by ing hts een den
its hat ect the ame ure at ent mes .
a max - ing ion was hen med ich kes the
mal ion ver a ool of ent den its hat are the ame hts but ply hem at ent
his lds ome ral nce .
ugh nal els ong the ral ion ved ood ion lts ( 123 ) , ing
hem to one ion is not ard .
his is use ral ons in ech can be lly
led by the mic ing ure in the hmm ent and ose cts of ral ion hat
not be ely led by the hmm can be sed ore tly and ely by den ory
the ork ted in ( 123 ) ied cal nal ers ith max - ing to the ncy her han
ime ion of the ram .
ing - hts and ing ver ncy was ted by the fts in
ant ies sed by ker ons .
it des ome ker nce ile lso ing ise
ess due to the and - ted ure of the ers .
( 123 ) nly sed ght - ing and max - ing oss
rby ies use , ike res hat cur at ent ons in ges , tic res ing
at ery ent ies are ery ent .
a ary of the ces een nns and mms
ere we ize the ain ces een the nns and mms sed in the mit nts bed
so far in his per .
rst , one jor ent of the dbn - dnn , the rbm ich ves as the ing ock for
pre - ing , is an nce of uct of rts ( 123 ) , in ast to ure els hat are a sum of rts .
ure els ith a rge ber of nts use eir ers tly use ach ter
uct els ave nly ery tly een red in ech ng; e . g . , ( 123 ) .
ril 123 , 123
nly ies to a ery all ion of the ata eas ach ter of a uct del is ned by a
rge ion of the ata .
ond , ile oth nns and mms are ear els , the ure of the ity
is ery ent .
ird , nns are ood at ing ple mes of put nts eas mms hat
use nal nce ces net uch ess rom ple mes use hey ire ted uts .
lly , nns are ned ing tic ent ent , ile mms are ned ing the em thm or
its ons ( 123 ) ich kes gmm ing uch ier to ize on a ter ine .
ing dbn - nns ith mms for rge - ary ech ion
the ess of dbn - nns on mit sks ing in 123 ted ore ous nts ith uch
ger ies and ore ied ing les .
in his ion , we iew nts by ree ent ech
ups on ve ent ark sks for rge ary ech ion .
to ake dbn - nns ork lly
ell on rge ary sks it is ant to ace the one mms sed for mit ( and lso for
rly ral ork / hmm rid ems ) ith one mms hat ave any nds of ied tes ( 123 ) .
ing ese ext - ent tes des ral ges ver one ets .
hey ply ore
its of ion per ame in the els .
hey lso ake it ble to use a ore ful one hmm
der and to oit the ble ses red by the ion ree ing hat is sed to tie the tes of
ent one mms .
ing ext - ent hmm tes , it is ble to orm ate - of - the - art mmi
ned gmm - hmm ems ith a two - den - yer ral ork out ing any pre - ing ( 123 ) , ugh
ing ore den ers and pre - ing rks ven ter .
ing - ice - rch ech ion ask
the rst ful use of tic els sed on dbn - nns for a rge ary ask sed ata ted
rom the ing ile ice rch ion ( mvs ) .
the ask sed 123 urs of ing ata ith a igh ree
of tic ity sed by ise , sic , ide - ech , nts , ppy ion , ion , ion ,
ons , and ile one ces .
the lts ted in ( 123 ) ted hat the est dnn - hmm
tic del ned ith ext - ent tes as ets ved a nce acy of 23% on the est
set , red ith 23% for a ong , mpe ned gmm - hmm ine .
the dbn - dnn sed in the nts was sed on one of the dbn - nns hat ked ell for the mit
it sed ve pre - ned ers of den its ith 123 , 123 its per yer and was ned to ify the ral
ame of an 123 ame tic ext dow ing 123 ble ext - ent tes as ets .
in ion
to ing hat a dbn - dnn uld ide ins on a rge ary ask , ral her ant ues
ere tly ted in ( 123 ) .
it was und hat ing ied one ext - ent ate ets was ial
and rly ior to ing one ate ets , ven hen the ter ere ved rom the ame ced
ent ith the ame ine .
it was lso med hat the wer the ror ate of the tem sed ing ced
ent to ate ame vel ing els for the ral net , the wer the ror ate of the nal ral - net
sed tem .
his ect was ent oss all the nts hey ied , ing one nts ,
ril 123 , 123
nts rom mum ood ned gmm - hmm ems , and nts rom ely ned
her ork ter hat of ( 123 ) ded the dnn - hmm tic del rom 123 urs of ing ata to 123
urs , and red the ive les of pre - ing and ne - ing the dbn - dnn ( 123 ) .
as ted , pre - ing
is ful in ing the dbn - dnn use it zes the dbn - dnn hts to a int in the ght - ace
rom ich ne - ing is hly ive .
ver , a ate ase of the unt of led pre - ing
ata has an ant ect on the nal ion lts ( 23% to 23% ) , as ong as the nal ing set
is rly rge .
by ast , the ame unt of nal led ne - ing ing ata tly ves
the nce of the dnn - mms ( acy rom 23% to 23% ) .
ard ech ion ask
the dnn - hmm ing ipe ped for the ing ice rch ata was ied red to the ard
ech ion ask ( 123 ) to nrm the ity of dnn - hmm tic els for rge ary sks .
ore his ork , dnn - hmm tic els had nly een ned ith up to 123 urs of ata ( 123 ) and eds
of ied one tes as ets , eas his ork sed ver 123 urs of ing ata and nds of ied
one tes as ets .
ore , ard is a cly ble ech - to - ext ion ark
ask hat ows uch ore ous ons ong ues .
the ine gmm - hmm tem on the ard ask was ned ing the ard 123 - our ard - i
ing set .
123 - nal plp res ith wed ean - nce ion ere ted ith up
to ird - der ves and ced to 123 ons by dla , a orm of ear ant sis ( lda ) .
the ker - ent ord nes sed the mon eft - to - ght 123 - ate ogy and red 123 ied
the ine gmm - hmm tem had a ure of 123 ans per ( ied ) hmm ate hat ere rst ned
ely to ize a mum ood ( ml ) ion and hen ned ely to ize a
ted mum - ual - ion ( mmi ) ion .
a ven - den - yer dbn - dnn ith 123 its in ach
yer and ull ity een ent ers ced the gmm in the tic del .
the ram age
del , sed for oth ems , was ned on the ing pts of the 123 - urs of the her pus and
ted ith a ram del ned on ten ext .
the ary est set is the fsh ion of the 123 - our ing 123 ist ich ion set ( 23s )
ii ted rom the ure ows a ary of the ore lts .
ing a dnn ced the ord - ror ate
( wer ) rom the 23% of the ine gmm - hmm ( ned ith mmi ) to 23% a 23% ive ion .
the dnn - hmm tem ned on 123 urs rms as ell as ing ral ker - ive , lti - ass
ems ich use cal act gth ion ( tln ) and rly ven mes as uch tic ing
ata ( the 23h her pus ) ( 23% , ast row ) .
led nts ( 123 ) on the ard ask med hat the ble acy ins rom the dnn -
hmm tic del are due to the ect ing of ied one tes ing the dbn - dnn , the ive
ril 123 , 123
ing ve ent dbn - dnn tic els ith two ong gmm - hmm ine ems hat are ely ned ( dt ) .
ker - ent ( si ) ing on 123 urs of ata and gle - ass ing ere sed for all els ept for the gmm - hmm tem
own on the ast row ich sed ker ive ( sa ) ing ith 123 urs of ata and lti - ass ing ing ses
ion .
in the ble , 123 mix ans a ure of 123 ans per hmm ate and 123 nz ans 123 ion , non - ero hts .
ord - ror tes ( wer ) in % are own for two ate est ets , 123 - swb and 23s - fsh .
gmm , 123 mix dt 23h si
nn 123 den - 123 its
+ 123 ing mes
dbn - dnn 123 den 123 its 123
+ ted ate ent
gmm 123 mix dt 23h sa
ion of ing mes by the dbn - dnn , and the ong ing wer of per rks , as was
red in the ing ice rch ask ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
pre - ing the dbn - dnn ads to the est lts but it is
not cal : for his ask , it des an ute wer ion of ess han 23% and his ain is ven ler
hen ing ve or ore den ers .
for der - ced ges hat ave ler nts of led ata ,
pre - ing is ely to be far ore ful .
her udy ( 123 ) sts hat ure - ing ues uch as lda and tln , nly sed in
gmm - mms , are ore ful for low ral ets han for dbn - nns , bly use dbn - nns are
ble to arn ate res in eir wer ers .
gle ice put ech ion ask
gle ice put bes ice rch ies , ort ges , ils and ser ons rom ile ces .
his is a rge ary ask hat ses a age del ned for a ure of rch ies and ion .
les ull - own del for his ask , ich was ilt rom a ery rge pus , ses a ker - ent
gmm - hmm del sed of ext ent oss - ord one mms hat ave a eft - to - ght , ree -
ate ogy .
his del has a tal of 123 one tes and ses as tic put plp res hat ave een
med by lda .
emi - ied ces ( stc ) are sed in the mms to del the lda med res
and mmi ( 123 ) was sed to ain the del ely .
tly et .
( 123 ) sed his del to ain ely 123 , 123 urs of ned ing ata for a dbn - dnn
tic del hat cts the 123 , 123 hmm ate ors rom the tic put .
the dbn - dnn was ely
sed on one of the dbn - nns sed for the mit ask .
it had our den ers ith 123 , 123 lly ted
its per yer and a nal max yer ith 123 , 123 ive tes .
its put was 123 ous mes of 123
log ter - ank uts ith no ral ves .
ach dbn - dnn yer was pre - ned for one och as an
rbm and hen the ing dnn was ely ne - ned for one och .
hts ith des low
ril 123 , 123
a old ere hen tly set to ero ore a her ter och of ing .
one ird of the hts
in the nal ork ere ero .
in ion to the dbn - dnn ing , nce vel ive ne - ing
of the ral ork was med ing mmi , lar to the hod sed in ( 123 ) .
del ion
was hen sed to ine lts rom the gmm - hmm tem ith the dnn - hmm rid , ing the arf
ork ( 123 ) .
rbi ing was one ing the gle tem ( 123 ) ith ons to ute the led
log ods rom the tes of the ior ies and the ate ors .
ike the her ems , it was
ved hat for ice put it was ial to oth the ted ors for ood nce .
his ing
of the ors was med by ing the log ors ith a ier hat was sen by ing a rid rch to
nd a int mum of the age del ght , the ord ion lty and the ing tor .
on a est set of zed ces rom the ive ice put tem , the dbn - dnn - sed tem ved
a ord ror ate of 23% a 23% ive ion red to the est gmm - sed tem for his ask .
mmi nce ive ing ave an ror ate of 23% and del ion ith the gmm tem
ube ech ion ask
in his ask , the oal is to ibe ube ata .
ike the ile ice put ons bed ove ,
his ion oes not ave a ong age del to ain the ion of the tic ion
so ood ion res an ate tic del .
les ull - own ine , ilt ith a uch ger ing set , was sed to ate ely 123 urs
of ned ing ata .
his was sed to ate a new ine tem for ich the put was 123 mes of ccs
hat ere med by lda .
ker ive ing was med , and ion ree ing was sed to
ain 123 , 123 one tes .
emi - ied ces ere sed in the mms to del the res .
the tic
els ere her ved ith mmi .
ing ing , ure ace mum ood ear ion
( llr ) and mum ood ear ion ( llr ) rms ere ied .
the tic ata sed for ing the dbn - dnn tic del ere the llr med res
rge ber of hmm tes ded tly to the nal den , nce ost of the ion is
one at the put yer .
to uce his den , the dnn sed nly our den ers ith 123 its in the rst
den yer and nly 123 in ach of the ers ove .
out ten chs of ing ere med on his ata ore nce vel ing and del ion .
the dbn - dnn ave an ute ent of 23% ver the ine ems wer of 23% .
nce vel
ne - ing of the dbn - dnn her ved lts by 23% and del ion ced an nal ain
ish - ast - ews ech ion ask
nns ave lso een lly ied to an ish ast ews ask .
nce a gmm - hmm ine tes
the ial ing els for the dnn , it is ant to ave a ood ine tem .
all gmm - hmm ems
ril 123 , 123
a son of the age ord ror tes ing dnn - mms and gmm - mms on ve ent rge ary sks .
ith ame ata
ith ore ata
ard ( est set 123 )
ard ( est set 123 )
ish ast ews
ing ice rch
( nce ror tes )
gle ice put
123 ( 123 hrs )
123 ( 123 hrs )
ted at ibm use the ing ipe to uce a ate - of - the - art ine tem .
rst ker - ent
( si ) res are ted , wed by ker - ely ned ( sat ) and ely ned ( dt ) res .
lly , ven ial plp res , a set of si res are ted ing ear ive sis ( lda ) .
her ing of lda res is med to ate sat res ing cal act gth ion
( tln ) wed by ure ace mum ood ear ion ( llr ) .
lly , ure and del -
ace ive ing is ied ing the the ted mum ual ion ( mmi ) or mum
one ror ( mpe ) ion .
ing nts rom a ine tem , ( 123 ) ned a dbn - dnn tic del on 123 urs of ata rom the
123 and 123 ish ast ews ech ora ( 123 ) .
the dbn - dnn was ned ith the est - ing
csr res , ely sat + dt res .
the dbn - dnn ure ted of 123 den ers ith 123 , 123
its per yer and a nal max yer of 123 , 123 ext - ent tes .
the +dt ure put nto the rst
yer sed a ext of 123 mes .
pre - ing was med ing a ipe lar to ( 123 ) .
two ses of ne - ing ere med .
ing the rst ase , the oss - opy oss was sed .
for oss -
opy ing , ter ach ion ugh the ole ing set , oss is red on a eld - out set and the
ing ate is led ( i . e .
ced ) by a tor of 123 if the eld - out oss has own or ves by ess han
a old of 23% rom the ous ion .
nce the ing ate has een led ve mes , the rst
ase of ne - ing ops .
ter hts are ned via oss - opy , ese hts are sed as a ing int
for a ond ase of ne - ing ing a nce ion ( 123 ) ich zes the mpe ive ion , a
ive ive ion lar to mmi ( 123 ) but ich kes nto unt eme ror ate .
a ong +dt gmm - hmm ine tem , ich ted of 123 , 123 ext - ent tes and 123 , 123
ans , ave a wer of 23% on the ars dev - 23f set , eas the dnn - hmm tem ave 23% ( 123 ) .
ary of the ain lts for dbn - dnn tic els on csr sks
ble iii zes the tic ing lts bed ove .
it ows hat dnn - mms tly
orm gmm - mms hat are ned on the ame unt of ata , mes by a rge gin .
for ome
sks , dnn - mms lso orm gmm - mms hat are ned on uch ore ata .
ril 123 , 123
ing up nns at ion ime
ate ing or ian ion ods can be sed to ake gmm - hmm ems lly ent
at ion ime .
a dnn , ver , ses lly all its ers at ery ame to ute ate ods ,
ing it lly uch wer han a gmm ith a ble ber of ers .
ely , the ime hat
a dnn - hmm tem res to ize 23s of ech can be ced rom 23s to 3ms , out ing
ion acy , by ing the hts own to 123 its and ing the ery ast imd ves for xed -
int ion hat are ded by a ern 123 cpu ( 123 ) .
ely , it can be ced to 3ms by ing
ive pre - ing ods for nns
pre - ing nns as ive els led to ter ion lts on mit and tly on a ety
of csr sks .
nce it was own hat dbn - nns uld arn ood tic els , her rch led
hat hey uld be ned in any ent ays .
it is ble to arn a dnn by ing ith a low ral
net ith a gle den yer .
nce his net has een ned ely , a ond den yer is sed
een the rst den yer and the max put its and the ole ork is ain ely ned .
his can be ued til the red ber of den ers is hed , ter ich ull ion
ne - ing is ied .
his ype of ive pre - ing rks ell in ice , ing the acy ved by ive
dbn pre - ing and her ent can be ved by ing the ive pre - ing ter a gle
och ead of ple chs as ted in ( 123 ) .
ive pre - ing has lso een und ive
for the res led eep vex ork ( 123 ) and eep ing ork ( 123 ) , ere pre - ing is
hed by vex ion ing no ive els .
ely ive ing of the ole dnn rom dom ial hts rks uch ter han had een
ght , ded the les of the ial hts are set lly , a rge unt of led ing ata is ble ,
and ini - tch zes ver ing chs are set ely ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ess , ive pre - ing ill
ves est nce , mes by a ant unt .
yer - by - yer ive pre - ing was lly one ing bms , but ous pes of der ith
one den yer can lso be sed ( see ure 123 ) .
on ion sks , nce lar to bms can be ved
by pre - ing ith ing ers ( 123 ) hat are zed by ing a set of the uts to ero
or ive ers ( 123 ) hat are zed by ing the ent of the ies of the den
its ith ect to the uts .
for ech ion , ved nce was ved on oth mit and
ast ews sks by pre - ing ith a ype of der hat ies to nd rse des ( 123 ) .
ive ne - ing ods for nns
ery rge gmm tic els are ned by ing use of the ism ble in ute ers .
it is ore ult to use the ism of ter ems ely hen ing dbn - nns .
at ent , the
ril 123 , 123
an der is ned to ize the ncy een the put tor and its ion of the put tor on its put
if the ode its and the put its are oth ear and the ncy is the red ion ror , an der nds the
ame ion as pal nts sis ( up to a ion of the nts ) .
if the put its and the ode its are tic , an
der is ite lar to an rbm hat is ned ing ive nce , but it oes not ork as ell for pre - ing nns ess it
is gly zed in an ate way .
if tra den ers are ded ore and / or ter the ode yer , an der can ess
ata uch ter han pal nts sis ( 123 ) .
ost ive ion hod is to ize the rix ons ing a gpu .
his ves a eed - up of
een one and two ers of ude , but the ne - ing age ins a ous eck and ore ive
ays of ing ing are ded .
ome ent pts are bed in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ost dbn - dnn tic els are ne - ned by ing tic ent ent ith tum to
all ini - hes of ing ses .
ore ted ion ods hat can be sed on ger ini -
hes ude non - ear ate - ent ( 123 ) , fgs ( 123 ) and ian ree ods ted to ork for
eep ral rks ( 123 ) .
ver , the ne - ing of dnn tic els is lly ped rly to ent
ing and it is not ear hat the ore ted ods are ile for uch ete ion .
her ays of ing eep ral rks for ech ion
the ous ion wed nts in ich mms ere ced by dbn - dnn tic els to
ive rid dnn - hmm ems in ich the ior ies ver hmm tes ced by the dbn - dnn
ace the gmm put del .
in his ion , we ibe two her ays of ing nns for ech ion .
ing dbn - nns to ide put res for gmm - hmm ems
ere we ibe a ass of ods ere ral rks are sed to ide the ure ors hat the
gmm in a gmm - hmm tem is ned to del .
the ost mon ach to ing ese ure ors
is to ely ain a mly zed ral net ith a row eck dle yer and to use the
ons of the eck den its as res .
for a ary of uch ods , nly own as the
dem ach , see ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
ril 123 , 123
tly , ( 123 ) ted a ess ect way of ing ure ors for the gmm .
rst , a dnn ith
six den ers of 123 its ach was ned to eve ood ion acy for the 123 hmm tes
ted in its max put yer .
his dnn did not ave a eck yer and it was ore ble to
ify ter han a dnn ith a eck .
hen the 123 its ted by the dnn as put to its max
yer ere sed own to 123 ues ing a 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 der .
his hod of ing ure
ors is led ae - bn use the eck is in the der her han in the dnn hat is ned to
ify hmm tes .
eck ure nts ere ted on 123 urs and 123 urs of ata rom the 123 and 123
ish ast ews ech ons and ish ast dio rom tdt - 123
the ine gmm - hmm
tic del ned on 123 urs was the ame tic del bed in ion iv - e .
the tic del
ned on 123 urs had 123 , 123 tes and 123 , 123 ans .
ain , the ard ibm csr ipe bed
in ion iv - e was sed to ate a set of ker - ted , ely ned res and els .
all dbn - nns sed sat res as put .
hey ere pre - ned as bns and hen ely ne - ned
to ict get ues for 123 hmm tes hat ere ned by ing the ext - ent tes in the
ine gmm - hmm tem .
as in ion iv - e , the dbn - dnn was ned ing the oss - opy ion ,
wed by the nce ion ith the ame ing and ing les .
ter the ing of the rst dbn - dnn ted , the nal set of hts was sed for ing the 123
its at the put yer .
a ond 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 dbn - dnn was hen ned as an uto - der to uce the
ity of the put its .
the gmm - hmm tem hat sed the ure ors ced by the ae - bn
was ned ing ure and del ace ive ing .
oth pre - ing and the use of per rks
ade the ae - bn res ork ter for ion .
to rly are the nce of the tem hat sed
the ae - bn res ith the ine gmm - hmm tem , the tic del of the ae - bn res was ned
ith the ame ber of tes and ans as the ine tem .
ble iv ows the lts of the ae - bn and ine ems on oth 123 and 123 urs , for ent eps in
the csr ipe bed in ion iv - e .
on 123 urs , the ae - bn tem ers a 23% ute ent
ver the ine gmm - hmm tem ich is the ame ent as the dbn - dnn , ile on 123 urs the
ae - bn tem des a 23% ent ver the ine .
the 23% wer is the est ult to ate on the
dev - 23f ask , ing an tic del ned on 123 urs of ata .
lly , the ity of the ae - bn
and ine ods is red by ing del ion on oth the 123 and 123 our sks .
ble iv
ows hat del - ion des an nal 23% ute ent ver ual ems on the
123 our ask , and a 23% ute ent ver the ual ems on the 123 our ask , ing the
ity of the ae - bn and ine ems .
ead of ing the nts lly led by mms , ral rks can lso be sed to ide
nal res for the gmm to del ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
dbn - nns ave tly een own to be ery ive
in uch dem ems .
on the 123 est set , pre - ing sed ord ror tes by ore han one ird
for ech ith nal - to - ise els of 3db or ore , ugh his ect ost red for ery igh ise
ril 123 , 123
wer in % on ish ast ews
ing nns to ate ory res for ion - sed ech ion
a ent udy ( 123 ) ted the ess of dbn - nns for ing sub - tic ech tes
( lso own as cal or ory res ( 123 ) ) in the ely sed all eet nal ech ase
( 23k - 123 ) .
123 ccs lus rst and ond ral ves ere sed as the ort - ime ral ion
of the ech nal .
the one els ere ved rom the ced nts ted ing a gmm - hmm
tem ned ith mum ood , and hat hmm tem had 123 ied - ate , oss - ord tri - nes , ach
led by a ure of 123 ans .
the ute els ere ted by ing one els to tes ,
ing the ing ics of the ory res .
the 123 tes sed in the ent ork ,
as ted in ( 123 ) , are a set of the ory res red in ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
dbn - nns ved ess han alf the ror ate of low ral ets ith a gle den yer
res ith 123 to 123 den ers and up to 123 den its per yer ere red , ing ter
han 23% ame - vel acy for all 123 tes ted in the ull dnn tem .
on the ame ata , dbn - nns
lso ved a ery igh per ame one ion acy of 23% .
his vel of acy for ing
sub - tic tal ech its may low a new ily of ble ech ion and ing
ems hat ake use of cal res in the ull ion - sed ork sed in ( 123 ) .
ary and ure ons
hen mms ere rst sed for tic ing hey ere ned as ive els ing the em thm
and it was ome ime ore ers wed hat ant ins uld be ved by a ent age of
ive ing ing an ive ion ore ely ted to the ate oal of an asr tem ( 123 ) ,
hen ral ets ere rst sed hey ere ned ely and it was nly tly hat ers
wed hat ant ins uld be ved by ing an ial age of ive pre - ing hat ely
res the ate oal of the tem .
the pre - ing is uch ore ful in eep ral ets han in low
nes , lly hen ted nts of led ing ata are ble .
it ces ing and it lso ces
the ime red for ive ne - ing ith ion ich was one of the ain nts to
ing nns hen ral rks ere rst sed in ace of mms in the 23s .
the ses ved ing
ril 123 , 123
pre - ing led to a nce of est in nns for tic ing .
ely , it is now ear hat
ost of the ain mes rom ing eep ral rks to oit ion in ing mes and rom
ing ied ext - ent tes .
pre - ing is ful in ing ing , and it oes uce the ime
ken for ne - ing , but lar ons in ing ime can be ved ith ess ort by ful ice of
the les of the ial dom hts in ach yer .
the rst hod to be sed for pre - ing nns was to arn a ack of bms , one per den yer of the
an rbm is an ted ive del hat ses ary ent les , but ing it by mum
ood is ive so a uch ter , ate hod led ive nce is sed .
his hod has
ong ies to ing an der ork ( a non - ear ion of pca ) hat rts ach int
nto a ode rom ich it is asy to ely uct the int .
ent rch wed hat
der rks ith one yer of tic den its lso ork ell for pre - ing , lly if hey are
zed by ing ise to the uts or by ing the des to be ive to all ges in the
bms do not ire uch ion use the lli ise ced by ing tic ary
den its cts as a ery ong zer .
we ave bed how ree jor ech rch ups ved ant nts in a ety
of ate - of - the - art asr ems by ing mms ith nns , and we eve hat ere is the ial for
ble her ent .
ere is no son to eve hat we are tly ing the mal pes of
den its or the mal ork res and it is hly ely hat oth the pre - ing and ne - ing
hms can be ied to uce the unt of ing and the unt of ion .
we ore ect
hat the nce gap een tic els hat use nns and nes hat use mms ill nue to ase
for ome ime .
tly , the est age of nns red ith mms is hat it is uch der to ake ood use of
rge ter nes to ain hem on ive ets .
his is set by the act hat nns ake ore ent
use of ata so hey do not ire as uch ata to eve the ame nce , but ter ays of ing
the ne - ing of nns is ill a jor sue .
