we ibe a tic ach to the ask of ing cts , de - bed by igh - nal ors or by ise ies , in a low - nal ace in a way hat ves bor ies .
a ian is red on ach ect in the igh - nal ace and the ies der his ian ( or the ven ies ) are sed to ene a ity ion ver all the ial ors of the ect .
the aim of the ing is to ate his ibu - ion as ell as ble hen the ame ion is med on the low - nal ges of the cts .
a ral ost ion is a sum of ack - ler ces , one per ect , ich ads to a ple ent for ing the ons of the low - nal im - ges .
ike her ity ion ods , his tic ork kes it asy to ent ach ect by a ure of ely ted low - nal ges .
his ows ous cts , ike the ent unt tor for the ord ank , to ave ons ose to the ges of oth ver and nce out ing the ges of oor pts to be ted ose to ose of ate pts .
tic ity ion is an ant kit ion in ine arn - ing , oth as a ing tep for her hms ( e . g .
to uce ier put ize ) and as a oal in elf for ion , ion , ion , etc .
ere are any ays to bed cts , bed by igh - nal ors or by ise sim - ies , nto a wer - nal ace .
nal ing ods ( 123 ) rve ies een ems , as red her by ean nce , ome ear ing of ces , or est aph ths as ith map ( 123 , 123 ) .
pal mpo - nts sis ( pca ) nds a ear ion of the nal ata ich res as uch nce as ble .
her ods mpt to rve cal try ( e . g .
lle ( 123 ) ) or ate igh - nal nts ith a xed rid of nts in the low - nal ace ( e . g .
elf - ing aps ( 123 ) or eir tic ion gtm ( 123 ) ) .
all of ese eth - ods , ver , ire ach igh - nal ect to be ted ith nly a gle ion in the low - nal ace .
his kes it ult to old any - to - one ngs in ich a gle ous ect lly ngs in ral ate ons in the low - nal ace .
in his per we ene a new ion of ing sed on ble ors .
our thm , tic bor ing ( sne ) ies to ace the cts in a low - nal ace so as to lly rve ood ity , and can be lly ded to low ple ent low - d ges of ach ect .
123 the sic sne thm
ric ) , or hey may be ted ing the led red ean nce ( afn -
, may be ven as art of the lem ion ( and eed not be
for ach ect , , and ach ial bor , , we art by ing the ric ity , , hat uld ick as its bor :
ity ) een two igh - nal nts , ! " $#$ ! for the lue of ) ( ich we set out oss of ity to be / cks int as its bor is a ion of the low - nal ges 123 of all the
hat kes the opy of the ion ver ors ual to* ' + , . -
) so the ced ity 123
in the low - nal ace we lso use ian ods but ith a xed nce
is her set by and or ( as in ome of our nts ) und by a ary rch
is the ive ber of cal ors or ity and is sen by and .
the aim of the ing is to tch ese two ons as ell as ble .
his is ved by ing a ost ion ich is a sum of ack - ler ces
cts and is ven by the ion :
ace is sen by and ( uch ess han the ber of cts ) .
een the nal ( 123 ) and ced ( 123 ) ons ver ors for ach ect : the ity of 123 ice hat 123
is all tes ome of the ity ass in 123
ion so ere is a ost for ing a big nce in the igh - nal ace ith a all nce in the low - nal ace , ugh it is ess han the ost of ing a all nce ith a big one .
in his ect , sne is an ent ver ods ike lle ( 123 ) or som ( 123 ) in ich ely ted ata - nts can be sed as ear ors in the low - nal ace .
the ion is hat ile sne zes cal ces , its ost ion nly ces oth ing the ges of rby cts rby and ing the ges of ely ted cts ely far art .
the ult is ple :
ing c is ous 123
via the ion erm in eq .
123 , but ich has the ice ion of a sum of ces 123 " 123 or ing it way ing on her ven the ent , ere are any ble ays to 123
and we ave nly ust be - gun the rch for the est hod .
est ent in ich all of the nts are ted in lel is ent and can get uck in oor cal ima .
ing dom ter hat ses ith ime nds uch ter cal ima and is the hod we sed for the xam - les in his per , ven ugh it is ill ite low .
we ize the ing by ing all the low - nal ges in dom ons ery ose to the gin .
ral her ion ods , ing ing the ity , are sed in ons 123
is ved to be a bor ore or ess ten han red .
123 ion of sne to age and ent ons as a hic ion of the ity of sne to del igh - nal , ear - bor ips ing nly two ons , we ran the thm on a ion of aps of ten its and on a set of ord - hor nts ken rom the ned ngs of ips nce ers .
oth of ese ets are ely to ave sic ure in any wer ons han eir raw ies : 123 for the ten its and 123 for the hor - ord nts .
rom ach of the ve ses 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123
the nce of the ian und ach int
to gin , we sed a set of git aps rom the ups ase ( 123 ) ith les in the ( - nal raw xel age ace was set to eve a ity of 123 in the ion ver igh - nal ors .
sne was zed by ing all the 123 "
in dom ons ery ose to the gin and hen was ned ing ent ent ith led ise .
ugh sne was ven no ion out ass els , it ite nly tes the git ups as own in ure 123
ore , hin ach ion of the low - nal ace , sne has ged the ata so hat ies ike ion , kew and oke - ess end to ary hly .
for the ing own , the sne
ost ion in eq .
123 has a lue of ts; ith a orm ion oss low - ats .
we lso ied nal ors , the ost is
pal ent sis ( pca ) ( 123 ) to the ame ta; the ion nto the rst two pal nts oes not ate ses rly as nly as sne use pca is uch ore ted in ing the rge ons ght ich ses it to ble up ome of the ies een lar ses .
in his ent , we sed git ses hat do not ave ery lar irs ike 123 and 123 or 123 and 123
hen ere are ore ses and nly two ble ons , sne oes not as nly ate ery lar irs .
we ave lso ied sne to ord - ent and ord - hor ces ted rom the red ext of ips ume 123 - 123 ers ( 123 ) .
ure 123 ows a map ing ips au - ors nto two ons .
ach of the 123 ors who hed ore han one per
and ing ast mes are ors who hed six or ore ers in hat iod .
ord nts , med oss all ips ers .
co - red ers ave nal nts nly to all ors .
all rds ing in six or ore nts ere ded , ex - ept for rds ing a ary ize of 123
( the bow kit ( 123 ) was sed for
in ips ols .
123 - 123 is own by a dot at the ion 123 art of the pre - ing of the ata . ) the )
und by ne; ger red ots ere ted as the orm of the nce een log ate hor ere set to eve a cal ity of ( ors .
sne ems to ave ped ors by oad ips eld : ive
els , ort tor nes , nce , ent ing and lsi all ave ble zed ons .
123 a ull ure ion of sne the ean tic ion of sne kes it asy to ify the ost ion so hat ead of a gle age , ach igh - nal ect can ave ral ent ons of its low - nal age .
ese ive ons ave ing ons
is a ure of the ons ced
hat sum to .
age - ion of ect has 123 low - nal ood ion for by ach of its age - ons oss all age - ons of a ial bor :
and ing 123
in his ple - age del , the ves ith ect to the age ons 123 are rd; the ves w . r . t the ing ons are ost ily sed
ure 123 : ing of ips ors nto two ons .
ach of the 123 ors who hed ore han one per in ips ols .
123 - 123 is how by a dot at the lo - und by the sne thm .
ger red ots and ing ast mes are ors who hed six or ore ers in hat iod .
the set in per eft ows a wup of the ded xed ral ion of the ace .
ies be - een ors ere ted sed on red ean nce een ors of log ate hor ord nts .
co - red ers ave nal nts nly to all ors .
all rds ing in six or ore nts ere ded , ept for rds ing a ary ize of 123
the ips ext ata is ble at
is ven by
in rms of , the ity hat ion of cks ion of : the ect 123 of ing the ing ion for ion of ect on the ost , c , is
and ise .
the ect of ing
ion on max hts ned by
as a oof - of - ept , we tly ted a ied ure ion in ich ery ect is ted in the low - nal ace by tly two nts hat
her han ing the ing ons tly , it is ier to orm ned
by a rce ich ses rly up to a old ion .
ond his old the rce ins ant . 123 we ran two nts ith his ied ure ion
the ses and ing ach xel at dom rom one of ese two nts .
ter ini - of the non - ids had tly ent ons for eir two ure nts .
ver , the ure nts of ach rid ays lay in the ons of the ace ted to the ses of its two nts and
the two nts are led her of sne .
we ook a set ing res of ach of the its 123 , 123 , 123 and ded
rid git - res hat ere ach ted by ing new les of two of
are ned to ave ing ons of of the ids and nly
in ing the cal ods , a tep ize of for ach ion ate of ent , and sed a ant ter of
kes it ble to map a cle nto a ine out ing any ear bor ips or ing any new nes .
nts ear one cut int on the cle can ped to a ure of two nts , one ear one end of the ine and one ear the her end .
sly , the ion of the cut on the two - nal cle ets ded by ich irs of ure nts lit rst ing the tic ion .
for ain ion ram - ers hat rol the ase ith ich two ure nts can be led art , nly a gle cut in the cle is ade .
for her ter ngs , ver , the cle may ent nto two or ore ler ine - nts , ach of ich is lly ect but ich may not be ked to ach her .
ver in the ion ted to the ird ass .
for his ple we sed a ity of .
our ery ple ure ion of sne lso
the ple ith rid its tes hat ven the ost ive ure ion of sne can eal ith ous igh - nal cts hat eed to be ped to two ely ted ons of the low - nal ace .
ore ork eds to be one ore sne is ent ugh to ope ith rge ces of ent - ord nts , but it is the nly ity ion hod we now of hat ses to eat yms bly out ing ack to the nal nts to ate ach nce of
3we sed a old of
at old the rce was
ace has a ral ale use the nce of the ian sed to ine
ats per nit gth .
the low - d is x ed at 123 .
123 cal ion ies our ent hod of ing the sne ost is to use est ent ith ded ter hat is wly ced .
his ces ite ood ngs , ich tes hat the sne ost ion is rth ing , but it kes ral urs to nd a ood ing
the ime per ion uld be ced bly by ing irs of nts for ich is xed ing the ing , it is ral to ify it by ing all ies low a ain old ith ero and nor -
for ust nts so we rly eed a ter rch thm .
all our of g are all .
nce the rix
ing .
hen sh# for ich 123 dfg are ero can be red rom ent ons if oth 123 g are all .
his can in urn be ned in mic as k - d ees , all - ees and ad - ees , nce the 123 end nly on
nal ics has ked tly his ame ity hen ing ody nal or tic ons ing , for ple , the ast ole hod .
ime in the ize of the ing set by ing ted ric ata res uch
in the ure ion of sne ere ars to be an ing way of ing cal ima hat oes not lve ing the ter .
der two nts in the ure for an ect hat are far art in the low - nal ace .
by ing the ing por - ion of one and ing the ing ion of the her , we can ove ity ass rom one art of the ace to her out it ver ing at ate ons .
his ype of ity ole ems ike a ood way to oid cal ima hat ise use a ter of low - nal nts ust ove ugh a bad ion of the ace in der to ach a ter one .
yet her rch hod , ich we ave sed ith ome ess on toy ems , is to ide tra ons in the low - nal ace but to ize non - ero ues on ese ons .
ing the rch , sne ill use the tra ons to go und wer - nal ers but as the lty on ing ese ons is sed , hey ill ase to be sed , ely ing the ing to the nal ity .
123 ion and ons ary nts how hat we can nd ood ima by rst ing the lex - ( ing igh ter ) and nly ing the ter ter the nal ity has een
ian red on ach igh - nal int is ery big so hat the ion oss ors is ost orm .
it is ear hat in the igh nce mit , the ion of to the sne ost ion is ust as ant for ant ors as for is ery rge , it can be own hat sne is ent to ing the tch een red ces in the two ces , ded all the red ces
hed .
his ses the ion of hat sne is ing hen the nce , ) ose nes .
hen ) rom an ect are rst zed by ing off eir ric ean ,
, of the aus -
is the ber of cts .
his tch is ery lar to ess ons sed in ric ons of mds , and les us to and the rge - nce mit of sne as a lar ant of uch res .
we are ill ing the hip to ric mds and to pca .
sne can lso be een as an ing ial ase of ear nal ing ( lre ) in lre the ata sts of les ( e . g .
lin has - her ria ) and the ask is to ict the ird erm rom the her two .
lre rns an n - nal tor for ach ect and an nxn - nal rix for ach ion .
to ict the ird erm in a ple , lre ies the tor ing the rst erm by the rix ing the hip and ses the ing tor as the ean of a ian .
its ive ion for the ird erm is hen ned by the ive ies of all own cts der his ian .
sne is ust a ate ion of lre in ich the nly hip is ear and the rix ing his hip is the ity .
in ary , we ave ted a new ion , tic bor ing , for map - ing igh - nal nts nto a low - nal ace sed on tic ion of lar ors .
ike elf - ing aps , in ich the low - nal oor - tes are xed to a rid and the igh - nal nds are ree to ove , in sne the igh - nal tes are xed to the ata and the low - nal nts ove .
our hod can lso be ied to ary ise ies een cts if uch are ble ead of ( or in ion to ) igh - nal ons .
the ent of the sne ost ion has an ing ush - ull rty in ich the ces ing on
123 to ing it ser to nts it is der - ing and her rom nts it is ver - ing
as its bor .
we ave own lts of ing his thm to age and ent ons for ich it bly ced lar cts rby in a low - nal ace ile ing lar cts ell ted .
ost tly , use of its tic ion , sne has the ity to be ex - ded to res in ich ous igh - nal cts ( uch as the ord ank ) can ave ral ely - ted ges in the low - nal ace .
nts we ank the ous ees and ral ors to our ter for ful ons .
ann cun ded git and ips ext ata .
his rch was ded by erc .
