ab an em ap to re co su th em re mu le to ma wo an ph on th re ex , bu th is ma di by th ne of fo at on de .
ha ch ma - ul to to co to wh th ar re ov th pr , bu in it ow pr fo th cl , na ha to pr a cl fu of ch wi ma .
in th ar , we de th ha rs - an se - gr ch ma im of to on a co sc be th co as mu as ph ma of th to .
in ad , ma on on da fa re in th sa do on we la .
th nd en th us of ma of te - re im as an ed te fo en ea re co .
th nd al se co on th ac of em wh re .
ke re co em ed te em re co ai in
wh do it me to co a wr te ? on an , ba on an em ap to co , is th su co re ( a ) ma wo an ph to cu or re ex an ( b ) us sy to gu th ap
gl ( & ) de of ps , ar st un , te , az 12 - 12 , us
gl de of ps , un of wi , ma , wi , us a .
go x .
zh de of co sc , un of wi , ma , wi , us
gl et al .
in of th ex .
th pr ar pa di fo th em re be le to re ou lo fo at to de or in ph .
wi at fo on de , th is sc at to co th is , ma th wo on ex .
mo by re is an in de to ad th pr by pr th ap ex wh re an te ch ho to re th wr wo to th ex .
pr wo ha de th su of th in , bu on wh ch ar gi th op to di in wi th en to pr th ex .
he we as wh a co ca pr eq ef ex fo th em
tw ap to re co
an in th of re co wa de by ki ( 12 ) .
in th th , co re th co an in of pr .
ea pr co to a si id , an it co of ab , sy re - ta of co li by ab re su as gi , ob , an re .
th th ha in a tr am of re , mo of wh su th th at le in br ou .
no , th ap fa pr to th sy gr pr , na , ho ar th ab sy gi me ?
th ab sy in ki th ar si to th da in a co me lo , th is , th ar ar re to th sy re .
fo th co sy , me is pr by a hu ob in th sy .
bu , wh or wh in th ab sy of th mi ? on po ( se ki 12 la an du 12 ) is th th de of co am ab sy is su to su me .
ho , th an ( ha 12 se 12 ) an em in ( e . g . , gl an me 12 , in pr ) su th th wi no wo .
ha ( 12 ) us th sy me - go - ro ar to de wh co - ne am ab sy ca le to me .
im th yo ar ar in a fo co , an th yo do no sp th lo la .
at yo di yo ha a di wr so in th fo la wi en tr .
as yo st of th ai , yo se a si , an yo wi to un it me .
yo lo up in th di th rs wo in th si .
be th de is in th fo la , it do no ma an se to yo , th yo lo up th rs wo in th de , bu it to do no he , an so yo lo up th rs wo in th de .
fr th ex , it is cl th no ma ho ma wo ( ab sy ) yo lo up , th is no ma ho ma re th yo tr am th sy , yo wi be un to de th me of th si so fr re am th sy .
ha ( an ot ) su th on mu st of th sy me - go - ro by gr , or ma , th sy to so ( e . g . , bo ex ) ou of th sy
gl an me ( 12 , 12 ) in th is em .
pa in th ex me fo di ty of re ( e . g . , ca ha as pa ) be ob an fe .
th ob , fe , an th fr of pr co di to a we - kn se do , na tw - wh ve fo on ca .
wh th na of th re we gi to th pa , th na of th do , th na of th ob , an th na of th fe we no re to th pa .
th qu of ma in wa wh th pa
im ea re co us em ca
co in th do an ob fr th me re al .
th an wa th th co no .
in an ex , pa we gi th na of th do , na of th re , na of th of si ob ( ro bi , mo bi , mo - cy ) , an na of 12 of th 12 fe .
pa me re am bo th na an un ob an fe .
th qu of in wa ag wh pa co in th me of th un ob an fe .
th co no .
he , bo lo an ( ha 12 se 12 ) an da in th me ca ar so fr re am ab fe .
an al ap ca be de fr th pe of em co : hi - le co pr ( e . g . , la , ma ) ar gr in bo me - an of pe , ac , an af ( ba 12 , 12 se an sm 12 ) .
th in hy ( gl an ro 12 gl an ka 12 ) is on su th .
it su th la co re th th ab sy of la ( i . e . , wo an sy ) be ma on em ex or re of th ex .
th ex ma be pr by se th en , as wh lo at a cu wh so is ta ab th cu .
al , th ex ma be pr by pe sy ( ba 12 ) in me .
a pe sy is an an re co of th pa re - ac of th sa ne sy ac wh th ob wa ap .
a tr am of da fr ne ( e . g . , gl et al .
12 pu 12 ) an ps re ( e . g . , gl an ka 12 zw an ta 12 ) ha de th im of su gr re fo la co .
th mo by re in
on th em ac of la co , wh is re so mu mo di to ac th an or la ? to pu it di , ho is it th a ch is ab to de te an sa it ou lo , bu st no un ( e . g . , oa et al .
12 ) ? on po is th du or la le , th ma be sy ( wo ) an ob is co .
fo ex , a mo sa , he is yo cu , an ha th cu to th in , or a fa sa , wa by - by , wh ge th ac .
in co , wh le to re , a ch mu fo on th le - so co an on bl th so to pr th pr pr of th wo .
it is un th th wo re is an in th en , an ev wh a te ma be ac by pi , re to th pi is un to be sy .
( ev th se te ma we po to pi wh th te re to th cl , th im be is fo th ch to re wo to gr ex , su as pi , wh th ch is re . ) in th ca , re be a me ex in wo ca , mu li tr to re a te in a la on do no un .
oa et al .
( 12 ) de th a no - ne pr of st su de bu wi li co .
th is , re al se co of wo in th ch vo do no gu co .
th mo by re in co of tw ty of ac de to te ch ho to ma wo an ph on cu an re ex .
du th ph ma ( pm ) st , ch re si te ab ac wi a pa sc ( e . g . , a fa sc ) .
in fr of th ch is a se of to su as a to ba , tr , an , et .
cr se ar cu wi a pi of a gr tr li .
af th ch re a cr se ( e . g . , th fa br ha to th ho ) , th ch ac ou th se us th to , th fo th ch to co wo to
gl et al .
pa ob an sy re ( e . g . , wh di wh to wh ) to ac .
on a co te fo re , ch wh en in pm of pe on to tw st de be th ch wh re th sa te , bu in of ma th to , th ch re - re cr se ( gl et al .
12 , 12 ma et al .
12 ) .
fo pm , ch ar ta to im ma ( im ) th to .
th is , up se th gr li , th ar ta to im ho th wo in wi th to to ac ou th se .
im pr ga th ar si in si to th pr by pm ( gl et al .
12 gl 12 ) .
wh do im wo so we ? th in pm pr co to th ch wh re is al ab , na , us th ex to co me mo th co to th te .
th im pr al ch to ta ad of th kn , as we as im en th ch to us hi or he we - pr sk of ma he wo to ex us du or
mo by re on co
wh th mo by re in co be ed be , it is li by th ne of cr st th ma to or cr to th ma st .
a se li fo cl us is th ne of ha ma se of to , th is , a se of to fo ea in or gr of st .
gi th ma cl ar be co - pu an th ma sc ha co la , bo of th li mi be ov by ha a ch , wh re , ma co im us a mo .
bu , wi th so of co ma be as su as pm ? th ar re to an in th ne an th af .
on th ne si , ma co im ma no be as en as ma to .
al , th mu ex as wi th to ( e . g . , bo vi an ha in ) ma be im fo cr th so of pe sy ne fo im to be su .
on th po si , to th ex th su of th in de on ( a ) ma wo to an so of me re an ( b ) en ch to ma th sy re to ac , th ma im us a co ma be as su as pm .
in th re re ne , we co th co .
in al of th co , ch re te pr on a co mo an af re pa of te th to a sh co te .
in th pm co , af re cr se , ch tu aw fr th mo to ma ph to .
in th co ma ( cm ) co , ch ma im on th mo us th mo ( se fi .
fi , in th re - re co , ch re - re cr se .
in th re - re co , a no - ma ve of th im wa av on th sc as in a ch pi bo .
on th rs da of th ex , ch re fo te .
on th se da of th ex , 12 we la , ch we in to en in im ( or si re - re in th re - re co ) .
th ch re fo mo te fo wh th wa no ma of im on th sc .
th rs tw of th te we st de ev in th sa , fa sc us on th rs da ( e . g . , fa sc ) .
th se tw st ca fr an un sc ( e . g . , ho sc ) .
th de al us to an se ap an th qu .
wi cm be as ef as pm ? wi cm be mo ef th re - re ? wi cm le to ef us of im on da 12 ? wi be of im ex to un sc ? on th th si , do ef em re re ac wi re ob ?
im ea re co us em ca
12 a sc sh be re , be ho th ca to th tr b sc sh mi th ma fo be ho th ca to th tr c sc sh af su ma fo be ho th ca to th tr
gl et al .
a to of 12 ch in th rs - an se - gr we sa fr tw so .
on so wa a re re in wh pa of ch at th ma me sc di co in th wi to pa in re .
th se wa an af sc pr in a su of ma , wi .
ch fr th re pa in a la ro an ch fr th af sc pr pa at th sc .
pa co wa ob fo al ch .
ch we ra as to pa in th pm ( n = 12 ) , cm ( n = 12 ) , or re - re ( n = 12 ) co .
ra as wa do se fo th tw so of pa to en no sy co of so an co .
fo ea of tw sc , we wr si , ei - se st .
ea st in ve cr se .
in ad , fo ea st we wr a 12 - qu ye / no co te .
fi of th qu we di at th cr se ( e . g . , di be dr th tr to th pu ) an ve we di at in ta fr ot pa of th st as we as in te re ( e . g . , di be dr to th ba af he pu th pu in th ca ) an in sp re ( e . g . , at th en of th st wa th tr at th ba ) .
ch we ra as to st wi on sc ( th fa sc ) or th ot .
th ch re fo st fr th fa sc on th rs da , th re tw st fr th sc on th se da ( 12 we la ) , an th tw st fr th ot , un , sc .
th us of th st wa co as fo .
fi , st we pa .
th , a pa of st oc ap eq of as th rs pa on da 12 , th se pa on da 12 , an th rs pa on da 12
ea pa fr th se sc oc ap eq of as th se pa on
in ad , ea sc ha an in th wa us in al of th co .
fo th in , a st pi of th st ob wa pr , an th ex po to an na al of th ob .
th wa al a ve - se pr te fo ea sc .
th te wa us on th rs da to gi ch pr re fr th mo , ma , an re - re .
fi , a th - se pr te wa cr fo ea sc an us on th se da to in im ma an si re - re .
th in fo im ma we to im in wi th im ( e . g . , im cl on an im , dr it wi th mo , et . ) .
fo th rs se in th pr te , th ex de wh wa to be im .
fo th re se of th pr te on , th ch de wh he or sh im .
if th ch di no de in wi th im , th ch wa co .
de of th co so
th ex we co us a ja - po we ap th ru in a st we br ( e . g . , mo fi ) .
no ad so ne to be do or in on a lo co .
th we pa di th se in a bo
im ea re co us em ca
on th le si of th sc , wi a tr li ic ne to th cr se .
th ri si of th sc di a st ba im fo ea sc ( e . g . , a ba in th fa sc ) , an in th fo , sm im re th ke pa an ob in th sc .
fo th ex , th im ar hi qu ph of th sa to us in ou pm st .
wh th ch re a cr se , he or sh mu cl on th im of th co ob to ma ( th is ak to pi up th co to in a pm st ) .
cl an el do no .
fo ex , gi th se be ho th ca to th tr , th ch mu cl on be , th fa .
up do so , th im be st to th mo cu , an th ch ma re th mo bu .
( yo co us ma no ha ma th co of dr ye . ) wi an im lo on th mo cu , th ch mu mo th mo to cl on th ne re ob or lo ( in th ca , th ca ) .
no , mo th mo wi mo th fa an th ca to .
a ho zo is de ar th re lo , pr so ex in wh th ne cl mu oc .
af th la ne cl fo th se , th se im be un fr th mo an re in th ne lo , al th ma be a sl ad in th im to de im de ( e . g . , th ca ap - pr at to th tr ) .
in sh , th so is de to al on co ma , wh al so ro fo er in mo cl an mo be .
wh al th re ma fo a se ar co , a sm in ap in th co of th sc as a si to th ex th th ch ma st re th ne se .
on th rs da , ch we in to th fa sc .
fo th , th we in as to wh a gr li si th to fo th ch in th pm co , ma th co im th fo ch in th cm co , an re - re fo ch in th re - re co .
th in wa fo by pr - se of th ve - se pr te .
ch th re tw st fr th fa sc .
th co te fo th tw st wa gi af re th se st so th th wa a re in of se mi be re a st an ta th te .
th co qu we re al by th re an th ch re al .
ne th te no th pi we av to th ch du th te .
ch th re tw mo st fr th fa sc an th we te on th tw .
at th en of th rs da , th ch se a sm
on th se da ( 12 we la ) , ch we in in im or si re - re us th th - se pr te .
th pr wa fo by ch re tw te fr th fa sc .
th rs of th wa pr al wi a st pi of th sc , an th se wa re wi an pi .
th ch we th te on th tw te .
ch th re th in to th se , un , sc al wi a st pi .
ch th re tw te fr th un sc us ei im ( fo ch in th pm an cm co ) or si re - re .
th rs of th te wa pr al wi a st pi an th se ha no pi .
be th ma of pi on th se da ha no st si - ni ef , it wi no be di fu .
fi , ch we te on th la tw te , gi a se to , an di .
gl et al .
th me ( an st de ) of mo in ar pr in ta 12
fr th ta , it ap th ch in th cm gr ou ch in th ot tw gr bo on da 12 an on da 12 fo th fa sc , bu no fo th un sc .
st co co us a pr of a ty 12 er of 12 ge co th im .
th st an we co us an an on th pr co us ch as th un of an .
th pr we ob by co ac al qu ( 12 pe te ) fo te in a gi co .
fo ex , th pr co fo th rs da we ob fr th 12 qu as th da .
in th rs an , th da fr th fa an un te on da 12 we co .
th wa an ef of da , in th ch di be on da 12 th da 12 , f ( 12 , 12 ) = 12 .
th ar se li , bu re un , re fo th nd .
fi , da 12 co of st fr on sc , wh da 12 co of st fr tw sc , on of wh wa re un .
se , on da 12 , ch us a re st ( pm , cm , or re - re al ) th is li to be mo ef th th da 12 st ( im or re - re si ) .
th , al of th da 12 st we ac by ma or st pi , bu on ha th da 12 st we
mo in is th ma ef of co , f ( 12 , 12 ) = 12 .
ch in th cm co ou th in th re - re co ( p = 12 ) .
th in of co an da wa no si ( p = 12 ) , wh im th th cm co ou th re - re co bo on da 12 wh ch ma im or re - re al , an on da 12 wh ch im th ma of im or re - re
we pe a si an us th da 12 da an th da 12 da fr th fa sc on .
in th an , th wa a si ef of da , f ( 12 , 12 ) = 12 , an co , f ( 12 , 12 ) = 12 .
th ch in th cm co ou - fo th ch in th re - re co ( p = 12 ) an th pm co ( p = 12 ) .
ag , th wa li ev fo an in be da an co , f \ 12
fi , we an th da fr da 12 an th da fr th un sc on da 12
th we no si ef in th an .
it sh be no th th da pr in ta 12 ar th pr co of al te qu , th is , th qu ta th ac se an th dr fr ot pa of th te .
wh th qu ta th ac se ar co al , th pa of me an pa of st si ar th sa as re ab .
ho , be pe wa so hi ( e . g . , on da 12 , th pr co we 12 , 12 , an 12 , an on da 12 , fa sc th pr we 12 , 12 ,
ta 12 me ( an st de ) on th co te
co on da 12
da 12 fa
da 12 un
ph ma ( pm )
co ma ( cm )
ef si ( d ) fo cm co to re - re
no : ns no st si
im ea re co us em ca
an 12 , fo th pm , cm , an re - re co , re ) , th da ma re in pa ce ef .
co , we de to fo on an of al of th qu .
it is of in th th po ef of mo by re ex be th sp se fo wh ch en in pm or im , al th ef is ex : pm an im he th ch to bu a me mo of th ch an th ac , an th me mo wi be us in un al pa of th st .
th nd th th be of mo by re ex to ot pa of th te al he to bo th cl th th in en no ju me bu al co of th te .
th is , ap mo by re he th ch to an in qu , no ju be re pa of te co to ma se .
th di wi be or ar th qu no at th en of th in se , na , wi cm be as ef as pm ? wi cm be mo ef th re - re ? wi cm le to ef us of im on da 12 ? wi be of im ex to un sc ? on th th si , do ef em re re ac wi re ob ? fi , we wi ad th ed im of th re , an it re to wo on ga .
is cm as ef as pm ?
on su in th re wa th ch in th cm co pe at le as we , or ev be , th ch in th pm co ( p = 12 co al of th da , an p = 12 co da fr da 12 an th fa sc fr da 12 ) .
th ef ma re di in th pm co ca by ha to tu aw fr th co sc in or to ma th to .
ho , it mi al be a re ef , an no si di .
fo ex , ma im on th sc ma he fo th ch on ho to re th sy re wh th ne to gr an ma th ob is ob .
or , ma im on th sc ma di pl so th th ch fo mo on th te . 12 th la re is re of re on ma - ni in ma co .
na , to th ex th th ch pl wi th ma in co to us it as a sy fo a ma id , th ma in wi pe ( e . g . , mc et al .
12 ) .
is cm mo ef th re - re ? wi cm le to ef us of im on da 12 ?
ch in th cm co ou th in th re - re co , an th ef si we la en to be ed im .
on da 12 , th ef si ( co d ) of cm co to re - re wa 12 , wh 12 is co a la ef .
on da 12 ( im co to re - re ) , fo th fa sc , d = 12 ( a me si ef ) .
th ar se re wh 12 ma be an un .
fi , th we on tw te fr th fa sc on da 12 , so th th wa mo er in th me
12 se ch di ap to pl wi th im in th cm co .
fo ex , a ch mi si wi th mo a ch ho , or hu a di wh mo an im .
gl et al .
of da 12 pe co to da 12 pe .
se , be of th lo , 12 - we , re in , it is li th so ch fo so of th sc in th mi ha as in th im ma .
it mi al be th ca th mo ex pr on pm ( or cm ) mi le to mu la ef of im co to re - re .
fo ex , in gl , br , & le ( 12 ) ( a ) cl we ra as to co , ( b ) th cl te de th in us re - pr le pl , ( c ) th te we ta fr th ch li ra th wr by th re , an ( d ) th - gr ch pr pm se ti di ov se we , an th pr im 12 ti di ac ei we ( ov wi th pm pr ) .
fo th ch , th ef si of im ( co to ch in a co gr wh re th sa te di in th sa wa ) ra fr 12 to ov 12
wi be of im ex to un sc ?
fo th cu da , th an is cl no .
th an is in co to bo gl et al .
( 12 , b ) an re fr th ju - de pi ex .
in bo of th pr , ch tr on pm fo on sc sh be of im wh re te fr bo fa an un sc .
th we tw no di be th pr an th cu on , ho .
fi , th ch re mo ex tr in th pr wo .
se , th ch we ol .
th , al th be of im we li in th cu re , th is re to be th im wi tr to un sc wi gr pr an / or ol ch .
do ef em re re ac wi re ob ?
th nd th cm re in pe at le as go as in th pm co le to a ne an .
be mu of th em co li ha de ef of re ph , th nd wa a su .
in re , ho , th ar go re fo it .
fi , la it de wi ca an ro ap .
th is , ev a th de of an ob wi no in al th de of it ph .
th , in a wo to a ro ap re of th ob ma of se co - pr we .
se , th wa no in th te th re ( fo co ) mo th a ro ap to th re ob .
fo ex , no in th te de on in ab we of an ob th mi be di to ob fr an im .
th , th op to em wi ac th gr re of wh di wh to wh ma ha be su to le to be of cm an it tr to im .
fi , th nd is co wi tr an kl ( 12 ) .
in th re , ch - dr le th sc , co of va st ( cv ) , na th in an ex - me on mu ma on va an co al ot .
tr an kl de th ch le eq we wh th ma a ph ap to co ex or wh th ma vi ob on a
as no ab , pi wo de ef of th mo by re in - ve un cl co .
ho , th ne to us ph ma li th pr im of th pr .
th cu wo de ho
im ea re co us em ca
th li ca be ov us co , al we mu st de ef of cm un cl co .
it is of in to no th re be cm an wo on th ed be of ga ( e . g . , ba et al .
12 ge 12 , 12 ) .
wh no li of th ch of su ed ga is ac by ev , th fo ch ar li to be in in mo li .
go co ga :
ar ex an si as op to a ro an de ( wi et al .
12 ) re , go ga pr sk th ar be le as st fo ca ou me fu ( ge 12 , p .
12 ) su ga mo by re or op fo su
mo by re ov wi th ch .
ca ob su th ch ar mo en re in th pm an cm co ( se fo ( 12 ) ) th in th re - re co .
( wo un is ex mo mo ob . ) al , th ma af ea ac se pr an op fo su .
wh en mo ma we ac fo so of th be we ob , we th th th re be re an si wi ga .
th is , ga he le to si th le , an th to gr in th si th fo th th ar le ( ba et al .
th , in bo mo by re an we - de ga , it is li th th re be fo le an co co wh th le is ab to br ou of ha ( 12 ) sy me - go - ro by gr th sy ( wo ) in cu ex , wh th ex is li ph or th cr of me mo th em an re ph ex .
on mi as wh th be of mo by re de he ar te - po in th se th as ch be mo sk re th do no ne ex pr in gr .
al , is mo by re be fo on th mo co te ? su , mo ol re wi no ne ex in in gr fo th so of si te us he ( al th mi no be tr wh re in a no - na la ) .
ho , we be th , if an , th pr be mo se as ch ar as to re an co te , su as sc te , th do no ad co ex .
th is , it is th in to gr te te in th ex - ri th , in pa , ma sc te da .
a re co ex ( ri et al .
12 ) de th be of gi st th op to gr wr te wh le th cv pr st by kl ( e . g . , tr an kl 12 ) .
in ri et al .
( 12 ) fo gr st he a pr ab cv an th th we gi th op to ap it .
in on co , ch ap cv by fo wr in fo ho to se up ex in a pa do ( e . g . , va th co ho fa a ba ro ) .
th is , th ch li ma th ap by fo ex , wr in - ti .
in an co , ch ap cv by ma th sa ap , bu th ti th ex in we re to th ch .
th , th tw co we id in re to th sy in , bu on th rs gr ha pr in gr wr ma in th ac .
in a tr ta , al ch we as to ap th cv pr in a ne do ( e . g . , va th co ho fa a sp wi st ) .
in th tr ta , al ch li ma th ap to se up ex by re te th ou ( ra th fu de ) th ex .
th de va we ( a ) ho we th ch wa ab to fo th in by de an un ex ,
gl et al .
an ( b ) ho we th ch ju th de of th ex .
th ma re fr th tr ta we th ch wh ha pr re th te ou th ch wh ha pr li to th te on bo me .
th ri et al .
da de th po of mo by re fo fo ed - ca re pr .
fi , ma is im fo re wh ar ol th th pa us in th cu ex .
se , ma is im fo wh ch ( an , mo li ad ) ne to le fr re ra th le to re .
th , ma is im fo le ho to ap an ab pr .
fi , ma ap to fa tr .
th , mu as wi we - de ed ga , mo by re ca he to si ab fo an th fa ac an tr of th fo .
ac th ma is ba up wo su by th na sc fo un gr no .
bc 12 to ar gl an ii - 12 to xi zh .
an op , nd , an co or re ex in th ma ar th of th au ( s ) an do no ne re th vi of th na sc fo .
we th la ha an sa mi fo th in he in da co , an mi c .
jo - gl fo in th co im ca in be us as ma .
