gu mo is de to es te of th fo
we in an ex la mo wh mo - el a wh se or ut as a si un .
by av - in th ch ru , th mo tr ea se as a ba of fe , wh fe ar ar co pr - er of th se .
th ne mo is co mo ef , an mo na su to mo gl se ph , th th co ex ( e . g .
ma en ) mo pr to da .
us th mo is st .
tr th mo re sa - pl fr an ex di .
we de th ch of ap mo ca ma ch ( mc ) an ot sa te to na la , an di - cu sm an st - si se .
we th pr a no pr fo fe se , wh ex di - cr be th ex mo an th tr co - pu .
we de ou id by co an an - in co mo in th sw do , in - po le an sy in .
mo an ou
co st la mo es th pr -
it in a pr of co pr :
ab of a se by us th ch ru to de
th va ma of wo in st la - ! cu wi ib t . j .
wa re ce , yo
he , ny 12
e - ma : st . ib . co .
is th hi wh pr -
th ap of th ch ru is te ha - le si it us an ex eq , no an ap .
th pr is al un fr a hi pe - sp ( st la mo gr ou of th st - ti ap to sp re , wh th se pa re es th pr of in wo ) .
no , it is no al de .
te li
ma no be th be wa to th ab es
gl se in su as gr or se co is aw to en in a co - di fr .
so gr st wa ca in th st la mo of ( 12 ) an in th co ex mo of ( 12 ) .
bu su st ha to be fo in te of pa pa tr an le - to - ri pa st .
si , mo - in of se co wa at in th co - di ex mo of ( 12 ) , bu ha to be re - st to a li nu of pa wo co -
ex in on th se ( fo ex , th ef of pr ut , or di le va - ab ) ar eq ha to en ef .
fu - mo , su in mu be fa in th pr - di of ev wo in th cu se , ca - in sm bu sy bi in th es to be
is ty ap by
' fo so sm (
as ) .
ev if su a mo is im by in lo di in , it st ma ma im in as .
it is cl fr lo at la da th th as ar of pa fa , an th th ar si gl de bo wi an ac se .
as a si ex of th li of th ch ru ap , co on as of a se : it le
th ut on it pr ca be mo di .
an ) - gr ba mo , th ef of th nu of wo in ra , it is an im co of th ) - gr pr -
th is la co du sp re by a wo in pe , th us of wh pr th le is an im fe .
ho , th wo in - ti pe ca on mo le as a ge di - ti , wh do no t we wi em da , es fo sh ut .
as an al to th co co fo - mu , th pa pr a ne ex la mo wh di mo th pr of an en se or ut .
th ne mo is co si - pl , an mo na su to mo wh - se ph , th th co ex mo pr - po ea .
by av th ch ru , th mo tr ea se or ut as a ba of fe , wh fe - tu ar ar co pr of th se .
th si , un no co ca be co - pu ex , bu th do no in wi tr ( do vi sa ) or wi us .
us th mo is co - al st .
tr th mo de cr on ef sa of se fr an ex di -
in wh fo , se 12 in th mo an co it wi th co ex mo pr - po to da .
se 12 di tr th mo : it li se te fo sa fr ex di - tr , sh ho to ap th to th do of na - ur la se , an co th re ef - ci .
st - si se an sm ar al di he .
se 12 de ex we pe wi th mo , in le an sy in .
se 12 an th re of th ex , an se - ti 12 su an di ou on ef an fu - tu di .
va po of th wo we rs de - sc in ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
wh se ex mo
a wh se ex la mo ha th fo :
un no co wh de on on th
s ar th pa of th mo , - s , an th
s ar ar co pr - er , or fe , of th se .
th pr .
fo ex , *$
mi be th un di -
is an ar - tr in di , so lo re to as
tr , or el it mi be de ( us th ch ru )
us th wh se mo
tu th as of th da th co ap or
di de , gl se pr , as we as mo co fu ba on pa - of - sp ta , pa , or ot ty of li pr .
fr a co di su as an ) - gr .
ar se by th mo to ca - pr .
th ca in co ) - gr , lo - pr of a gi se , on ne on ca an th va of th va fe
, an us
eq 12
th us th mo is st an ( as lo as th fe ar no to co ) co tr .
be th fe co de on an pa of th se , th ca in ge on be co af th en se is kn .
th , wh us fo sp re , th mo is no su fo th rs pa of th re , an sh in be us to re - sc n - be
to us th wh se ex mo to es th
wh se ma en mo
th te ex mo re to an mo of th fo ( 12 ) .
a pa ty of su a mo is th so - ca ma en ( me ) mo , wh th pa ar ch so th th di sa ce li
th ta va ar ty se to th ex of
( fo bi fe , th si me th fr in th co ) .
th , th co
co .
sp , fo ea fe , it ex - is co to a sp va * of so tr - th fe un th em di ?
th in di di in ( md ) so
lu
fu , if th fe ta va
if th co ( 12 ) ar co , th ex a un so wi th ex fa ( 12 ) wh sa th .
am al ( no ne ex ) so to eq ( 12 ) , th ex so is th on cl to in th ku - li se , an is th ca th mi di or mi fo , th be si th ma en ( me ) so -
12 th li , th te ma en or me is us lo to re to bo si , i . e .
re of wh th in di
is un .
we wi fo th pr he .
th em ex ov so tr co ( as in eq ( 12 ) ) , th md or me so is al th ma - im li so of th ex fa .
fo mo in , se ( 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
in pa ,
th md or me so ca be fo by an it pr su as th ge it sc ( gi )
at ea it - ti , th al im th al ( 12 ) .
gi st wi ar va by co th ex of ea fe un th cu ta va , an mo th as de th st si ( se se 12 ) .
co th ex
qu a su ov al po se , a cl in , we es wt by sa fr th di
an us th sa ex - .
sa fr an ex di is a
no - tr ta .
ef sa is cr to su tr .
sa te wi be di in de in se 12 .
as wi be sh la on in th pa , wi th te it is po to tr wh - se me mo us ve la co an ve ma fe .
in tr a wh - se ma en mo ,
as me ea , th te ex mo re to al mo of th fo ( 12 ) , wh th te me mo re to ex mo wh th pa ar se to sa eq ( 12 ) .
mo of th pa de wi me mo .
fo a di tr cr fo ex - ti mo , se se 12 .
co to co me mo
it is in to co th wh - se me mo wi co me mo , wh ha se co su re in la mo ( 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 ) .
th co mo us ha th fo :
on mu co
re du tr fo ea wo po in th
wh th fe ar fu of a sp wo - hi
mo im , - pa , an so is th ba is no a tr co it de on an th mu be tr da .
na , fo ea tr da
qu se : tr a mo th in ) - gr an
is th vo .
th co bu is
lo - di wo co fe on so 12 mi wo ca ta hu of da of co ( 12 , p . 12 ) .
it is th bo th ha hi th wi us of th me fr in la mo .
in co , in ou ne mo th un no co ne no be ca ( se se 12 ) .
th no on sp up tr , bu it al si sp up us th mo in ap su as sp re .
in fa , wh us wi si fe , ou mo ca be ap
mo em a co nu of pa .
th ma dr of th co me mo ar th th se co bo of tr ( es -
wi ro th sa am of co as an ) - gr ci of co - ) , an th di in mo -
in wh - se ph .
th wh - se me mo ad bo of th is .
a na no of co : a wh - se me mo in th sa fe as a co me mo is in fa no id to th la .
th is be th tr pr us fo co me mo re th co of th fe ex to hi ob - se in th tr da ( se ( 12 ) or ( 12 , se 12 ) ) .
th bi th so in an in an so ap - pr wa .
fo ex , co wo tr fe of
fo so wo
co in th tr da , th wi af th so of th co me mo .
in fa , if th ar pe co , al co - oc in th sa se , th re -
an sp co th tw fe su s wi li be on ha of wh th va wo
ha be if on on of th fe we us .
th is be - ec to th mo , si it ca co th ar li to re in ne da .
ho , a wh - se me mo in th sa fe wi no us th co - , un it is ex in to do so vi a se fe .
th is be th tr - in da is no ac us in wh - se me tr , ex in to de th fe ta va .
no an pe
ju as it is in to ca ex fe ex - ta fo wh - se mo , it is eq in
fo , th is no ne fo tr -
in : sa ( an he ex es ) ca be , as wi be sh in se 12
us th mo as pa of a cl ( e . g . , a sp re - ei , be th re ra of th di cl is no ch by a
to co th no co - do wi kn - ni ) do no re kn of -
si , un co .
no th th is no th ca fo co ex mo .
no , at ti it ma be de to ap , pe in or to co pe .
wi th wh -
se mo th ca be do as fo .
th z ca be ap to an de ac fr a
be th nu of se an wo in it , re
v be th un mo - ic ma to th in mo : 12
by th no co we ha :
fr wh we ge : - 12 of se dr fr 12 .
of , su la sa is ba on an ) - gr .
a re ef sa te fo ) - gr is de la .
to es re in pe - wo pe ( ( n ( th : 12 ba , le be a te se , an le ) dy ~ | an ) |
z ~ | i ar me
wh th ar me is ta wi re to : 12 an th ge me wi re to .
12 , i . e .
if th te se is al sa fr th ba
di , it fo fr th la of in of av - ag th th ne pe wi al be hi .
th , ho , is ap be an co to an in - ti pr di wi as a lo li ( an he hi pe ) to da ge by th di -
su in th es of z , th es pe
it fo th th th pe re ra is :
di tr
un no we di pr ma en or ma li tr .
ho , wh - se ex mo ca al be tr to di mi th er ra in an ap su as sp re .
th is kn as mi cl er ( mc ) tr - in , or di tr .
th lo - li of a
fe is gi
th la te is a we su , wh ca be di ( al on lo ) op fo mc us a he gr se su as po al , wh se th
wh - se ex mo wi (
sp de by th s .
in fa , th se te ( mw
ca al be as a we , an sc no re to la mo ca be ad to th mi as we , fo jo op .
th is a ge of th la we an wo in pe pa cu us in sp re .
fo an at in th di ,
co wh - se mo
so fa we ha di no - co mo of th
re - in th co fo of th ex mo , re to th se hi , na th se of se fr th be - ni of th do or co up to ( bu no in - in ) th cu se .
th mo th be :
in or to mo cr - se ef , on ca al wi so mo
al th no co is no lo un - ve , it is st no ne fo n - be re of a sp re ou .
th is be re is ty do on se at a ti , wi al co hy sh th sa se hi .
we wi no pu mo of th ty an fu in th pa , ex to no th th ca be us to ex se wi in , su as to an ot di
ma en mo tr
si ex su ov al se we wi es th ex
th se , we de se st te fo sa fr ex di , an ev th ef fo ge na la se .
t by sa
gi sa ( 12 ) is a we kn te fo sa fr ex di .
it wa us in ( 12 ) to sa fr th po of ch st .
we wi no de ho to us it to ge wh se fr
cl th al wo po in so or ) .
to al tr in se of an le , we do
ch a wo at ra ac to th di -
an un jo ex di , th pr al me wh ar mo ef in th do .
re by an or wo , wh ef le th se by on wo .
se .
th co a si st in th ra wa in th un ma el .
to ge a si se fr
, st fr an ar se , an it as fo : 12
ch a wo po ( ei ra or by cy - \ be th se pr by re th wo in se wi th wo
in th vo
pl th wo in po in th
th en - of - se po is al co fo wh th la wo po in th se is pi , fr th gi di dr th in se fr a re di - 12 .
th te to re th ne nu - fo an in se us th na ( or so in - at ea it , co on a su of th vo -
te ) se fr a pr ra wa .
th ag te to re th ne nu of it .
ho , th re se ma be so co wi th pr sa
ge sa se fr a gi di as de ab is qu sl .
to sp th up , th fo va ar us :
th en - of - se sy < / s> is al co .
if ch , th ef sh th se by
af en it of th ab pr , th re - su se is gu to be an un sa
12 is no th kn ho ma it ar ne to pr - ti gu un sa .
in ou ex we us se
bu , su as a un ba on th tr da ,
ca fo re .
an su ca be ch
be of it pe st .
12 is kn as th lo ch ap .
th is an on an he de in th co st co be lo ch an sh ch su .
as lo as th un ma ch re er - go .
th tr of th co co pe it - er ag th mi ra of th ma ch ( th is , th ra at wh th ra wa co to th un eq di ) .
se is ac wi pr
th ne
af th sa ef in th ex re in th pa , we us a un di .
is re .
af al wo po ha be ex , th re se is ad to th sa , an th pr is re . 12 th di
ev wi th im , gi sa is no th mo ef fo th do , as th pr of a gr ma se mu be co to ge ea sa .
me sa ( 12 ) , an ma ch mo ca te , ap mo ap fo th si .
an in se is ch as be .
fo ea is pr fr a in th po -
as in gi sa , ad th me al - ri to se of va - le re ca .
in on so , we pa ea se wi en - of - se to
ch wo po , a ne wo to re th or wo si , re in a pr ne se
ot , th or wo us to ge ne wo ca fo ea po < / s> up to a xe le .
a se be sh if di us to ge ne se ca mu be si to th di
we ar at to in im sa , a sa
er ac to so se di si mu be cl to
co th bi in by sa fr
, ea sa
we ev th me ( ex gi
in ap me sa , in of re a si wo at a ti it is po to re la un .
in pa , in in sa we co re - in th wh se in ea it .
fo ef , th
12 sa pr is st co if th cu se is ad to th sa af ea wo po is ex ho , th pr be le we - de wh we co va - le se .
th la no - < / s> to is ch to < / s> , lo if th rs < / s> to is ch to so el .
fo ef sa .
to ti , so th
sa , wh pr to sl ) on so of th mo to
wh sa me is be de on th na of
ta 12 : me an st de ( of me ) of fe ex es fo se - le fe fo th sa al ov te ru
sp co , un th en - of - se sy is ge -
fr th be - of - se sy , an it ge -
be de in se 12
th mo em a tr
as th in di
( ge se fr a ) - gr mo ca be do qu ef : on st er a si wo ac to th ) - gr mo an th er .
ge a si wo fr an ) - gr mo st .
wh th co is no tr - ex di . ) th , ta
ia , it is fa mo ef th sa di fr an to be a tr - gr mo fo in an im sa is ve ef .
to me th ef of th di sa al , we di th fo .
us an ex - ne mo wi a ba tr tr on 12 mi wo of sw te ( ( 12 ) ) an a vo of so 12 , 12 wo , fo ea of th sa me we ge - er te in sa of 12 , 12 se .
we es th ex of a se of fe on ea sa - pl , an ca th em va in th es of th ex ov th te sa .
mo ef sa al sh yi lo va .
in ou ex , we fo th in sa - pl an im sa bo yi ex pe - fo , wh wo - ba me sa pe su wo .
as an ex , we es ex - ti fo se - le fe of th fo
ov te sa of si 12 , 12
in ta 12 , we di th me an st de of th te ex es fo ea of th ve se - le fe un th sa al .
th ef of im an in sa - pl de on th di be th ge di -
on th di be to la , me sa , an th re -
an th de di
, th di wi gr wi ea tr it .
ca be us fo on it , sa it (
is ar a be mo th th in
su sa re .
su it ca re - us th sa vi im or in sa wi
no th , ev if tr we to st at 12 , si it ha mo co ( by ou as -
us th te we di ab , tr a wh - se me mo is fe ev wi la co an ma fe .
an ye , tr ti is no ne .
so id fo re th co bu wh we ha no ye ex in :
ti ) to sa th fe co .
th rs fe it ( we on ne to kn th di - re an ro ma of th co to th
us on ro es ( i . e .
sm sa si ) in 12 s ) ; in sa si wh ap co - de th sa si dy , ba on th ad fe gr ( th ha al pr it -
se ef at le an , as re in se -
nu of ti ea fe wa ob so fa .
st si
in gi , th st si fo fe up is in re to th nu of ac fe .
as se ty ha ma fe , th ma re in ve sl co .
im it sc ( ii ) ( 12 ) us a la ef st si th gi , bu re a gr de mo bo -
ni , we wo ta
ho , wh fe ex ar ne th ta va , ii ca be cl ap wi eq ( 12 ) is ta to be a we av of th fe
on ov th se in th sa us to ca ex - pe .
th te re in co in al of
su ov al se i . e . , if th se of se we
in ou im , we ap fr eq ( 12 ) we ca se th if in a ga pr on
to sm ou mo , we us th fu ma en me rs de by ( 12 ) : we
va an se fo th
ma a po mo in of th ma li - li mo .
th ha th ef of ch eq ( 12 )
fo so su va pa
ni , we fo th ov - tr ( ov ) wa ne a pr .
fo a de an of th an ot sm te fo ma en mo , se ( 12 ) .
wi th te -
fe se an ex
in th se we de se ex wi th ne mo , us va fe se an sa te -
ni .
we st wi th si re of ) - gr
us gi sa , pr wi lo di an cl ba le re us im sa , an en wi sy pa - ba fe .
fo su wo us se fe , se ( 12 ) .
to te th fe of gi sa an ge va - id ou ap , we bu a wh - se me mo us a sm ( 12 wo ) tr se of br ne to be un , an us un -
gr , bi an tr fe of th fo
( 12 ) ut
we se : 12
# of ti ) - gr oc in
th fe we no in al at th sa ti .
in - st , th un fe we in rs , an th mo wa al to co .
ne th bi fe we in , an th mo ag al to co .
fi th tr fe we in .
th re in fa co th in th si in of al fe ty .
tr wa do by gi sa
be we pr sa se ge by gi sa fr va st of th tr pr .
ta - bl 12 li sa se ge by th in mo ,
be an tr to pl .
si th in s we al
se to ze , th is th un mo .
ta 12 th 12 li sa se ge by th co mo af - te th in of un , bi an tr fe , re .
it ca be se fr th ex se th th mo in su in th in pr by th re fe .
th mo de ab in on co - ti fe wh ar ea to in in a si
12 th pa we ha be re to th un of mo as a se .
bu of co , ou me ca be us to mo an wo se or ut , wh or no it is co wi li bo .
na , li in fe ma or ma no be ap to no - se .
co la mo .
th wa do fo de - ti pu on .
th mo is un of th na or co of th fe .
ar fe ca be ac - mo wi vi no ch in th mo st or
<s en ca gr ge if o .
an ne < / s> <s de yo bo th ri ba we bo < / s> <s mo th ne an yo wr mu me < / s> <s a .
ho we me gr lo to n
ta 12 : se ge by gi sa fr an
ze , th is th un mo .
in ( un ) mo .
si al s we in to
<s we ve do a ar no li th < / s> <s i ri of no so an is do < / s> <s i ar fo th kn do ab of < / s> <s c .
go ar to a it ha so < / s> <s of th mo ju po wa ma we < / s>
ta 12 : se ge by gi sa fr a wh - se me mo tr on un fe
<s do yo wa to do c .
wa yo < / s> <s th i do yo ha a a us < / s> <s bu a lo an as c .
ne ar < / s> <s we wi yo ha to be ag an < / s> <s th wa is th do yo th on < / s>
ta 12 : ad bi fe .
as we me ea , gi sa tu ou to be th le ef of al sa te we co - er .
as we wi sh ne , mu la co an ma mo fe ca be fe tr wi th mo ef
in ou ne ex we us a mu la co an a ri se of fe .
ou tr da co of 12 , 12 , 12 wo ( ne 12 , 12 se ) of sw te ( sw ) ( 12 ) .
fi , we co a co tr mo on th da us a va of kn - ne sm ( 12 ) ,
ge ) - gr an fe se an us it as ou in di .
we th em - pl fe th co th fr of wo ) - gr ( up to ) =1 ) , di - tw ( i . e .
sk on wo ) wo ) - gr ( up to ) =1 ) ( 12 ) , an cl ) - gr ( up to ) =1 ) ( 12 ) .
we pa ou vo ( of so 12 , 12
wo ) in 12 , 12 , an 12 cl us th wo cl - in al of ( 12 ) on ou tr da .
<s wh do yo ha to li lo an < / s> <s a .
bu ne to < / s> <s be of sa im no at th it < / s> <s bi do be we i th th mo < / s> <s do yo ha to be in th wa < / s>
ta 12 : ad tr fe .
ta 12 : to - 12 we an av ra of be hy us va fe se .
a cl un , an in th th tr mo ov - ge wo fr th cl .
on fu ex , th cl tu ou to co a la fr of th ra wo .
th in th pe th sm of th tr - gr mo co be im .
ta to yo kn to yo kn ho ab yo kn ki of a
to se sp fe we de th fo pr - ce .
fi , we ge an ar co by sa
) - gr wi la di ( ac to st ) be tr co an tr - ge co of sa si ) - gr wi to ar di -
no re a cl wh tw mo fr me ar fr ou in tr di .
th tr ea ) - gr , we co it co in th tr co si ( us a fe to ou mo . 12 we tr th on th 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 an 12 , 12 ) - gr fe , re - ) - gr wi ze co we co to in ta 12 , we di th ) - gr wi th hi sc .
th ma of th ) - gr in a 12 - gr
or 12 - gr th oc ze ti in th tr co an oc ma ti in th tr co .
th ar cl ex of lo - di de th ar no mo - el we wi a tr mo .
ho , th la fe is
to th in th tr co .
if th tw co di te ) , we ad th co
ha 12 co in th an .
ti of 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , an 12 , re in ap
co wa of th sa si as th tr co
12 id of im a co th is mo vi by th cu mo wa rs pr by ro me , wh ca it na do .
we me th im of th fe by re
ea of ou fe se fo 12 it of it sc ea co tr ru to le th th ho on a 12 mh pe pr co .
fo ea fe se , we tr th co mo to 12
we us im sa to ca ex .
ho , in of ge an en ne sa fo ea it , we ge a si co fr ou in tr mo , an re - we th co fo ea it us im sa .
( th te ma re in mu in co fo ra fe , bu co ca st be as by
af in al re th st si wi ea it . ) we tr - be li ( e ll ) wh we ge -
te se of 12 , 12 wo .
th tr se as a ba -
fo ea mo , we co bo th to - 12 wo er - ro ra an th av ra of th le er hy .
th gu we co rs by co th ne la sc wi th ex ac sc , an ag by co th la sc on .
re fo th th la fe se ar su in ta 12 ( fo th sm fe se im wa sm st ) .
wh th sp fe we se he ma on a sm di - fe in n - be re , th se to de th ex ge of ou mo : an co pr of th se wh is cu no ad mo ca ( an sh ) be ad in th mo .
er by th ja sy ( 12 ) on a sw / ca
sy fe
in th la se of ex , we us fe ba on va - le sy ca to im on an in - ti tr mo in th sw do .
ou tr - in da wa th sa sw co us in se -
du to th of ag na of sw la ( in , sp te co ) , we ch to us a sh pa th , gi an ut , pr on a at se of sy co .
th sy fe we th de in te of th co -
th sh sw pa
th sh sw pa ( 12 ) wa de to pa sp , co sp in un do .
it is ve ro an fa fo su se .
fi , a se of pr st ar ca ou .
th in el - in wo re , ex co , an cl di .
ne , th pa as a pa - of - sp ta to ea wo .
fo ex , th in se
ok i uh yo kn i th it mi be co
wi be pr in
i / nn th / vb it / pr mi / au be / vb co -
as th ne st , th pa br th pr an ta se in on or mo si cl , wh ar cl co an in ve fo an a su .
th si th in an ma pa mo ro .
in ou ex ab , th pa wi ge tw si
si 12 : i / nn th / vb si 12 : it / pr mi / au be / vb co / jj
fi , wi a se of ha gr ru , th pa pa ea si cl in co .
th pa is sh si it do ge em co - st i . e . , th pa tr is at .
in th ex , si 12 ha tw co :
( np ) ( ( np he ) i / nn ) ( vb ) ( ( vp he ) th / vb )
an si 12 ha th co :
( np ) ( ( np he ) it / pr ) ( vb ) ( mi / au ( vp he ) be / vb ) ( pr ) ( co / jj )
th pa so le a fe fu wo ( e . g .
to , of , in ) un in th ou .
fo th pu of fe - tu se , we re ea of th fu wo as a co .
co th wa , th ar a to of 12
fe ty
as me ab , th sh pa br an in se - te in on or mo si cl , wh ar th fu - th br do in at se of co .
we de - ne th ty of fe ba so on th co ty i . e . , we ig th id of wo wi th co -
co se fe : fo an co
tu re tr cl tr fe , ex - ce th th co to a va nu of wo .
se of i la is np vb wh th of i se a bi is np vb np .
co tr fe : fo an or co -
fe is a re of co se fe - tu , si it do re th po an nu of co to ma ex .
as an ex , bo
se an si cl , 12
=1 if an on if th co se of si cl ex - =1
fo in , 12 np vb i th 12 np vb pr it mi be co l , an so fo .
12 np vb it mi be co 12
co se fe : fo an se of co ,
=1 if an on if th co se of se =1
th se of 12 np , vb i la 12 np , vb i se a bi + , al th co
=1 if an on if se co th co se at le
th se of fe -
th sa si as th tr co , by sa fr : 12 of th in mo , an th ad su a fe si cl of th ar co .
le be an ( be th th in th ar co
we ra bo co th th sh pa an co th oc of ea ca fe .
if th nu of ti a fe wa ac in th tr co di si - ni fr th in th ar co , th fe wa co im an wa in in th mo .
ou re wa th th di is du to a de
wi x th de .
we as th ou fe oc in , an ar th bi di .
mo pr , we ha tw in se of be tr .
on is th se of si cl of th tr co .
th ot is th
fe se
we fo th pr de in se 12 to nd us fe .
we ge an ar co , ro
th nu of ti a fe oc in th tr co
tr oc pr as wi ea co .
( se fo ex ( 12 , pa 12 ) ) .
we in in ou
we te th hy th ge li ra te , we re
12 wa re .
mo th fe wh
= ' = ha th mo si ta ) .
th fe st sc 12 in th te , wi =1 oc in th sw co an =1 in th ar co
in is th fe 12 , an =1 , =1
on ma su th th is wh
co se fe : th we 12 , 12 ca - da fe of th ty th oc at le on in th tw co .
of th , 12 , 12 sh a si di be th tw co at a 12 co le ( tw -
th in tr mo ma up so un ph .
lo at th 12 si cl co th :
f , wi
so i ha ne re in an th mi pr th we ha go th yo co la bu i wo su an yo ca co
si , th fe sc - 12 , =1 an =1
th fe st fo a pe
pl si cl fo th ha ne be ge - at in th ar co , pr be it co a lo - di de .
in , th co si - pl cl in sw ar :
wh ar do yo wo in wh ar do yo li in wh ho do yo li in wh ex do yo ge in in
sc , 12 , is
co se fe : th fe ar mo ge - er th co se fe an th th ar fe of th .
a to of 12 , 12 ca co se fe oc in ei co , wh 12 sh a si - ni di .
th on wi th mo si
, wi =1 an =1
or a to an a pr if a wh
li co se fe , th we so co - st se fe th oc on in th ar co - - sc of 12 wi
fo ex , 12 =1 an =1 :
co , su as wi z - sc 12 , =1 si .
th fe =1 an =1 is an go ex of th de
co tr fe : 12 , 12 ca fe of th ty ap in th co , of wh 12 , 12 we
th we al fe th on oc in th sw
bu he ne so we th gy ev so it re so re ba my so so on ch 12
of th in tr mo :
pe an wo er ra
pe un th ne ma en mo wa es -
we in th 12 co se fe , 12 co se fe , an 12 co tr - gr fe in a wh - se ma en la - gu mo , an tr it pa wi th gi al - ri .
th ba pe of a 12 , 12 - wo sw te
se ca un th in mo wa 12 .
th ti as 12 12 , a re im of on 12 .
ne , we te sp re wo er ra by n - be li re .
a 12 - be li wi 12 , 12 wo wa us .
th we wa 12 wi th in mo an 12 wi al of th sy fe ad , a me 12
in tr to un th di re of th la se , we an th li ef of fe on th - na mo .
th up bo on im fr a si is th ku li di be
th tr di of ( as es by th em di - ( th di of ac
to th cu mo ) ( 12 , p .
th ef of mu fe - tu is no ne ad ( in fa , it co be su - or su - ad ) .
no , th su of th in ef - fe ma st gi so in of th li co
ef .
fo th sy fe we us , we co :
is si la .
th se te on th ri - ha si is us ne .
th tw fa af th
wh tr in an ex pe re of , wh 12 is th av nu of wo in a se ) .
th po im of th fe is ap -
pa ve li .
we th ne to se fe
) an th nu ar th th pr of th fe ( ? lo di be th tr an th mo ( mw se to a hu re ? is su a fe ( wh ? l ) .
it is , of co , ai - ha to co
ev , ev a ro ap of it ma be qu us - fu .
ba on th an , we ha su fo ou at on de a sm nu of fr ( an li mo co ) fe , ba on th no of se - te co ( ( 12 ) ) .
in th fe we us , th la wa qu la , bu th fo wa ve sm .
th , we ne to co on mo co fe .
an id fe sh oc fr en , ye ex - hi a si di .
do th se ma
fr fe ar al co pr .
be th tr bo in wh - se me mo - el is in es fe ex vi sa , th co co is de mo by ho ra th fe ar an ho ac we wa to mo th .
th mo fr th fe , th le th co .
no th co co of tr de mu le on th vo , th am of tr da , or th nu - be of fe .
su an di
we pr an ap to in ar li - ti in in a st mo of na la .
we de ef al fo co wh - se me mo , of so to th qu of sa , st si an sm .
we de ou ap in tw do , us le an sy fe - tu .
we al in a pr fo fe se wh se an ex di be an ex mo an th tr co .
wh - se me mo ar mo ef th co - di me mo , an ca na ex se - le ph .
it is ou ho th th im
wi br th me us ba wh he hi - de ex an in of mu kn so .
th wi ho op th oo to ex , by ma re , wi va kn so wh th be to ca si in .
su so
nu ag , pa , ot pa - su
di of ve an te in th se va as of gr ( pe ag , di le in pr an ot ti re in ( sp
si al kn so ar in in a un - fo wa , a la mo ca fo on wh pr - ti of la to mo as op to ho to mo th .
at ca th be sh to fe in .
in , we ha st wo on an in fe in me , re it as a lo re pr ( 12 , 12 ) .
ta to , we ho th th ef wi he op th do to pu la ba in la
ra , pa , .
we ar gr to sa kh , fr je an pr na fo he di du th ea st of th wo to la wa fo mu ad on sa te to kl ze fo us of hi pa an to th re fo ma th su an
