an ap of se - su le is ma to th pr of pe id in lo qu we im .
us a se of im - ag of te pe co ov a pe of fo mo , th pe id ta is po as a gr - ba se - su le pr - le , wh on a fe tr im ar la - be .
th im of do kn in gr co is di , an ex - me ar pr th cl sh th ad - ta of se - su le ov st su le .
th da us in th st is av to th re co to en - ag fu in of th pr .
th sc of co sc at ca me un - ve ha a pu lo , wh le pi an ot fo it fr va me co , to th de of st , st , an fa .
to he mo th pr - en of fo in th lo , a we , so ca th fr , is mo in a co ma an tr up th ta wh fo is pl .
af be sp on th we , th ar of ( al ) fr fr fo is he wi in me se th th sc .
th fr of in op fo re -
12 : / / ww . cs . cm . ed / co , ca me
ap in pr .
of th 12 st ic wo on le wi pa cl tr da , bo , ge , 12
co - ri 12 by th au ( s ) / ow ( s ) .
se in se - su ma le .
th pa pr an in of th pr of pe id - ca in th lo qu vi da , us we im - ag of te pe th we co ov a pe of se - er mo .
th re hi th im of do - ma kn in se - su le , an cl de th ad of us bo la an un - be da ov st su le .
in re ye , th ha be a su am of wo ex ho be to in un da in su - pe le ( zh , 12 ) .
se se - su le ap ha be pr fo pr ap - pl in di ar , su as in re , te cl ( ni et al . , 12 ) , an bi - ic ( we et al . , 12 sh et al . , 12 ) .
in th co of co vi , se in re ha be ob fo ob de .
le et al .
du a te ba on co - tr ( bl & mi , 12 ) fo tt vi de in a wa th re on a sm qu of la da , us un da to im pe ov ti .
ro et al .
( 12 ) pr a se - su ap to tr ob de - te sy ba on se - tr , an pe ex - si ex wi a st - of - th - ar de ( sc - de & ka , 12 sc , 12 sc - de , 12 ) de th a mo tr in th ma ca ac re co to a mo tr in th tr ma us a mu la se of fu
in th wo , we de a ne ap of se - su le to th pr of pe id in we im , wh th vi st ha a lo fr ra , an th im ar of lo qu .
si , ma of th im ma ha no fa , as th pe co be fa - in aw fr th ca .
we di th cr of th
fi
fo ty fr im .
da , an th fo of th se - su le - in pr .
th ta of fa re , of co , ha an ex li se ( zh et al . , 12 ) fo a su - ve .
ho , to th be of ou kn , pe id - ca in vi da ha no be pr at us - in se - su le me .
re pr im pr te ar us in ou wo we no th mo so co vi te ca be ea in in th fr , an sh on im th pe .
bu th sp of ou co is to ar th se - su le me ma be at as a co to to ad im pr - ce .
th da we ha de an th fo th ba fo th ex re he wi be ma av - ab to th re co . 12
th fr da
th da co of 12 im wi on an on on pe in it .
fi 12 sh fo ty im fr th da .
th ta is no tr :
th im of ea pe we ca on mu - pl da du a fo mo pe .
pe ch
12 fo ob th da ca be fo at ht :
cl , ha st , an on pe ev gr a be .
we si a vi su sc wh im - ag fo a gr of pe ar ma la in a fe be fr , an th pe mu be re - ni on la da .
th we ch la da wi th rs da of a pe ap , an te on th re im of th da an al ot da .
th is mu mo di th te on on th sa da , or al la da to co fr al
th fr is a lo qu we .
ea fr ha 12 12 re so fa of fa aw pe ar sm .
th fr ra is a li ov 12 fr pe se , an li in th lo is co - pl an ch .
a pe co tu th fa aw fr th ca , an ro on th of th im co no fa at
si on a fe im ar la , an al of th te im - ag ar av , th ta is a na ca fo th ap of se - su le te .
fi
le : me ba im us fo ba su .
ri : br of th 12 su by da .
da co
we as te vo to ap in se fr ta ov fo mo .
no al pa co sh up fo ev ta .
th fr is lo in th co - pu sc lo , bu we re a li ca fe in ou of , an to im fr th ca wh a ne fr wa av .
in ea ta , th pa to tu en th sc , wa ar , an ac na , fo ex by re th ne or ch wi of - ca co - le , fo ve to te mi pe ta .
as a re , we co im wh th in ha va po an ar at a ra of di fr th ca .
we di - ca al fr th we co by el no in th co ma , or th co mo th on pe in th sc .
th la co im wa to ma th ta si to sp as a rs st th is no re th th me we pr be co no be ex to wo wi sc co mu pe .
fo co ex
to ac ca th co in of an in in th im , ba pr on th cl , we ha to se hi or he fr th ba .
as co vi is no th fo of th wo , we us on pr im pr me .
a si ba su al wa us to nd th fo .
we co th pe - pi me an va of re , gr an bl ch fr 12 ba im .
fi 12 sh th me ba .
us th me an va of th ba , we ob - ta th fo ar in ea im by th .
pi de mo th th st de fr th me we tr as fo .
to im th qu of th fo co hi ,
we pr th fo ar us mo tr ( ja , 12 ) .
fu pr wa re be th fo de fr ba su - ti of ca on pa of th bo an co ba ar .
we rs re sm is in th fo by ap th op op wi a 12 pi - wi sq .
we th co ve - se pi bl ( su as he an lo to ) us th cl op - ti wi a 12 - pi - by - 12 - pi re bl .
fi , we ma su th fo co th en pe by en th fo to in ne pi by fu cl th fo wi a di of 12 pi in ra .
an be th is on on pe in ea im - ag , we di al bu th la co bl of pi in th pr fo .
fi 12 sh so pr fo im .
af th pr th fo ar is re by a 12 - di ve , wh co of a 12 - bi hu hi , a 12 - bi sa hi , an a 12 - bi
fa im ex
th fa of th pe is st as a sm im , wh is de fr th ou of a fa de ( sc - ma 12 12 ) .
no th th is no a fa re ( a fa re wa no us fo th ta ) .
it si de - te th pr of fr or pr fa , an ou th es ce an ra of th de fa .
we to a sq ar ar th ce as th fa im .
if no fa wa de , th fa im is em .
fi 12 sh a fe fa im as de by th fa de .
su of th da
in su , th da is co of 12 im fo te in , co du se ta ov fo mo .
th is a sl im in th cl di -
fi
ex of fo ex by ba su an mo tr .
fi
ex of fa im de by th fa de .
ti , an on a su of in ar pr in ea da ( re to ta 12 fo th br ) .
ov 12 of th im ( 12 ou of 12 ) do no co a fa .
ea im in th da is re by th fe :
ti : th da an ti th im wa ta .
co hi of pr fo : a 12 di - me ve co of th hi of th fo pi , a 12 - bi hu hi , a 12 - bi sa hi , an a 12 - bi br hi -
fa im : a sq co im of th fa ( if pr ) .
as me ab , th fe is mi in ab 12 of th im .
th gr
gr - ba se - su le de cr on th co an qu of th gr .
th gr sh re do kn th th si fu th is us to as ed ( an th we ) .
fo th fr da th no in th gr ar th im .
an ed is fo be tw im ac to th fo cr :
ti ed .
pe no mo ar in th lo at mo sp , th ad fr ar li to co th sa pe .
we re th kn in th gr by pu an ed be tw im if th ti di is le th a th t1 ( us a fe se ) .
ne 12 : ti ed
ne 12 : co ed
ne 12 : co ed
ne 12 : co ed
ne 12 : fa ed
fi
a ra im an it ne in th gr .
co ed .
th co hi is la de - mi by a pe ap .
we as pe ch cl on di da , so th th co hi te to be un ac mu da .
ho , it is an in fe du a sh ti pe ( t1 ) , su as ha a da .
in th gr fo ev im i , we nd th se of im ha a ti di be ( t1 , t1 ) to i , an co i wi it kc - ne ne ( in te of co si on hi ) in th se .
th pa kc is a sm in , su as th .
fa ed .
we us fa si ov lo ti sp .
fo ev im i wi a fa , we nd th se of im mo th t1 ap fr i , an co i wi it kf - ne ne in th se .
we us pi - wi eu di be fa im , wh th pa of fa im is sc to th sa si .
th na gr is th un of th th ki of ed .
th ed ar un .
we us t1 = 12 se , t1 = 12 ho , kc = 12 an kf = 12 be .
co , th pa re in a co gr .
it is im to vi th wh gr .
in , we sh th ne of a ra no in fi 12
we us th si ga el an ha fu al ( zh et al . , 12 ) on th fr da .
le l be th nu of la im , u th nu of un im , an n = l + u .
th gr is re th n n we ma w .
le d be th di de ma wi di = pj wi , an de th co
l = d w
le yl be an lc la ma , wh c = 12 is th nu of cl .
fo i = 12 .
l , yl ( i , c ) = 12 if la im i is in cl c , yl ( i , c ) = 12 ot .
th th ha fu so fo th un da is
yu = l1
wh lu is th su of l on un no an so on .
ea ro of yu ca be in as th co of po pr p ( yi = c| ) fo c = 12 .
c an i u .
cl is ca ou by nd th cl wi th ma po in ea ro .
in ( zh et al . , 12 ) it ha al be sh th in - po cl pr kn ca be he .
th pr qc of da wi la c ca be es fr th la se .
in pa , th cl ma no ( cm ) he sc th po to me th pr - ti .
th is , on nd a se of co a1 ,
yu ( i , 12 ) :
: ac x
yu ( i , c ) = q1 :
fi ex gr wa on th gr .
th wa st fr an un im , th as ed , an en at a
cl of an un po i is ac by nd ar ( i , c ) .
in th ex be we re th ac of bo th ha fu an cm .
gr wa on th gr
th ha al de ab so a se of li - ea eq so th th pr la of ea ex is th av of th pr la of it un ne - bo an th ac la of it la ne .
th re fo th al pr ca ( ro ) be vi by pe a gr wa st fr an un ex i , al mo to th ne wi th hi sc gi to th pr la .
th is , le y be th pr la fo i .
if we ar at no j , we wi wa to js ne no k if
k = ar ( k1 , y )
th gr wa co un we re a la ex - am .
tw gr wa pa ar sh in fi 12 an fi 12
ex re
we ev ha fu on th fr ta .
fo ea ta we gr in th la se si sy , pe 12 ra tr fo ea la - be se si .
in ea tr we ra sa a la se wi th sp si fr th rs da of a pe ap on .
th is be we wa to si
a vi su sc , wh pe ar ta an id on la da .
it is mo di an mo re - is th sa la da fr th en da .
if a cl wa mi fr th sa la se , we re th ra sa .
th re im ar us as th un se .
we re th cl ac wi ha fu - ti an cm , on tw di gr .
th rs gr is co wi pa t1 = 12 se , t1 = 12 ho , kc = 12 , kf = 12 , th se wi kc = 12
th re ar pr in fi 12
to co th gr - ba se - su le me - od ag a st su le me , we us a ma im of su ve ma - ch ( gu , 12 ) as th ba .
fo c - cl mu - cl pr , we us a on - ag - al sc wh cr c bi su , on fo ea cl ag al th ot cl , an se th cl wi th la ma .
be we ha mi fe on fa su - im , th ke fo th sv ba re sp ca .
we us an in li ke k ( i , j ) = wt ( i , j ) + wc ( i , j ) + wf kf ( i , j ) , wh kt , kc , kf ar li ke ( in pr ) on ti st , co hi - to , an fa su - im ( no to 12 12 pi - if im i co no fa , we de kf ( i , ) = 12
th in we wt , wc , wf we op wi cr va .
no th sv wi su ke ar no se - su : th un da ar me us as te da .
we fo th th ha
fi ex gr wa on th gr .
th wa st fr an un im , th as ed , an en at a
fu ou th li ke sv ba ( fi - ur 12 ) .
th ac ca be im if we in cl pr kn wi th si cm he - ti .
th cl pr is es fr la da wi la ( ad on ) sm .
to de th im of us un da fo se - su le , we co th ha fu - ti wi a mi un se of si on .
th is , fo ea un po xi , we re al ot un po an co th ha fu on th la da pl xi .
th be a su le pr - le .
th ha so wi on on un po is eq to th st we ne ne al - go .
si th or gr ar sp , mo un - be po ma no ha an la ne .
to de wi th we in co xi to it kc ne la ne in th co fe , an kf ne ne in th fa fe , wh ed ar al un .
we tr va co of kc an kf , in th us in pr ex .
no we di us ti ed at al , be it do no ma se wi on on un po .
th re ar sh in fi 12 ( a ) wi se di - fe se of kc an kf .
th ac ar al ve lo .
ba th sh th no co of co an fa wo if on on us th la da .
th we se th us al th un da is qu im fo ou se - su le ap .
in th ca , ra th pr ea ex to be th un av of it ne , th pr be a we av .
fi 12 ( b ) sh th by se we ju ( in pa , gi mo em - ph to ti - ed ) on ca su im pe - ma , es on sm sa .
a re pr is to le th pa fo k - ne ne , i . e .
kc fo co ed an kf fo fa ed .
we ar cu ex - pl me fo le go gr pa se fr a sm se of la sa .
in th pa we fo a pe id ta in lo qu we ca im as a se - su le pr , an pr ex re .
th ex - me se re a vi su sc : lo im qu an fr ra la da is sc an is on av on th rs da of a pe ap fa - ci in is no al av in th im .
ou ex de th th se - su le al ba on ha fu ar ca of ut - li th un da to id te in wi gr th 12 ac .
th da is no av to th re co .
we as al th ed eq we .
a na ex - si is to gi ce ty of ed mo we th ot - er : e . g . , pe gi ti - ed mo we th co -
we th he sc fo hi he wi th fa de , an ra gr fo he di on im - ag pr .
we al th th vo fo pa -
fr , ha fu
fr , ha fu + cm
la se si
la se si
( a ) ha fu ac
( b ) ha fu + cm ac
fi fu an cm ac on tw gr .
al sh is th sv li ke ba .
( a ) th ha fu - ti al si ou th li ke sv , de th th se - su le al su ut th un da to as pe in im wi th id .
( b ) th se - su le al cl ev mo ac by in cl pr kn th th cm he .
pa in th fr da co .
th wo wa su in pa by th na sc fo un gr cc - 12 an ii - 12
sc , h .
( 12 ) .
fe - ce ev fo ef ca ob de .
ie co on co vi an pa re ( cv ) .
