gua mod is dev to est ter of the for
we int an exp lan mod whi mod - els a who sen or utt as a sin uni .
by avo - ing the cha rul , the mod tre eac sen as a bag of fea , whe fea are arb com pro - ert of the sen .
the new mod is com mor efc , and mor nat sui to mod glo sen phe , tha the con exp ( e . g .
max ent ) mod pro to dat .
usi the mod is str .
tra the mod req sam - pli fro an exp dis .
we des the cha of app mon car mar cha ( mcm ) and oth sam tec to nat lan , and dis - cus smo and ste - siz sel .
we the pre a nov pro for fea sel , whi exp dis - cre bet the exi mod and the tra cor - pus .
we dem our ide by con and ana - ing com mod in the swi dom , inc - por lex and syn inf .
mot and out
con sta lan mod est the pro -
it int a pro of con pro :
abi of a sen by usi the cha rul to dec
the vas maj of wor in sta lan - ! cur wit ibm t . j .
wat res cen , yor
hei , ny 123
e - mai : sta . ibm . com .
is the his whe pre -
the app of the cha rul is tec har - les sin it use an exa equ , not an app .
thi pra is als und fro a his per - spe ( sta lan mod gre out of the sta - tis app to spe rec , whe the sea par req est the pro of ind wor ) .
non , it is not alw des .
ter lik
may not be the bes way to thi abo est
glo sen inf suc as gra or sem coh is awk to enc in a con - dit fra .
som gra str was cap in the str lan mod of ( 123 ) and in the con exp mod of ( 123 ) .
but suc str had to be for in ter of par par tre and lef - to - rig par sta .
sim , mod - ing of sem coh was att in the con - dit exp mod of ( 123 ) , but had to be re - str to a lim num of pai wor cor -
ext inu on the sen ( for exa , the eff of pre utt , or dia lev var - abl ) are equ har to enc efc .
fur - mor , suc inu mus be fac int the pre - dic of eve wor in the cur sen , cau - ing sma but sys bia in the est to be
is typ app by
' for som sma (
ass ) .
eve if suc a mod is imp by inc lon dis inf , it sti mak man imp ind ass .
it is cle fro loo at lan dat tha the ass are oft pat fal , and tha the are sig glo dep bot wit and acr sen .
as a sim exa of the lim of the cha rul app , con one asp of a sen : its len
the utt on its pro can be mod dir .
an ) - gra bas mod , the eff of the num of wor in rat , it is an imp con of the ) - gra pre -
thi is lat cor dur spe rec by a wor ins pen , the use of whi pro tha len is an imp fea .
how , the wor ins - tio pen can onl mod len as a geo dis - tio , whi doe not t wel wit emp dat , esp for sho utt .
as an alt to the con con for - mul , thi pap pro a new exp lan mod whi dir mod the pro of an ent sen or utt .
the new mod is con sim - ple , and mor nat sui to mod who - sen phe , tha the con exp mod pro - pos ear .
by avo the cha rul , the mod tre eac sen or utt as a bag of fea , whe fea - tur are arb com pro of the sen .
the sin , uni nor con can be com - put exa , but thi doe not int wit tra ( don via sam ) or wit use .
usi the mod is com - all str .
tra the mod dep cru on efc sam of sen fro an exp dis -
in wha fol , sec 123 int the mod and con it wit the con exp mod pro - pos to dat .
sec 123 dis tra the mod : it lis sev tec for sam fro exp dis - tri , sho how to app the to the dom of nat - ura lan sen , and com the rel efc - cie .
ste - siz sel and smo are als dis her .
sec 123 des exp we per wit thi mod , inc lex and syn inf .
sec 123 ana the res of the exp , and sec - tio 123 sum and dis our ong eff and fu - tur dir .
var por of thi wor wer rst de - scr in ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
who sen exp mod
a who sen exp lan mod has the for :
uni nor con whi dep onl on the
s are the par of the mod , - s , and the
s are arb com pro - ert , or fea , of the sen .
the pri .
for exa , *$1
mig be the uni dis -
is any arb - tra ini dis , som loo ref to as
tri , or els it mig be der ( usi the cha rul )
usi the who sen mod
tur tho asp of the dat the con app or
dis dep , glo sen pro , as wel as mor com fun bas on par - of - spe tag , par , or oth typ of lin pro .
fro a con dis suc as an ) - gra .
are sel by the mod to cap - pro .
the can inc con ) - gra , lon - pro of a giv sen , one nee onl cal and the val of the var fea
, and use
equ 123
thu usi the mod is str and ( as lon as the fea are not too com ) com tri .
bec the fea cou dep on any par of the sen , the can in gen onl be com aft the ent sen is kno .
the , whe use for spe rec , the mod is not sui for the rst pas of the rec , and sho ins be use to re - sco n - bes
to use the who sen exp mod to est the
who sen max ent mod
the ter exp mod ref to any mod of the for ( 123 ) .
a par typ of suc a mod is the so - cal max ent ( me ) mod , whe the par are cho so tha the dis sat cer lin
the tar val are typ set to the exp of
( for bin fea , thi sim mea the fre in the cor ) .
the , the con
con .
spe , for eac fea , its exp - is con to a spe val * of som tra - tha fea und the emp dis ?
the ini dis dis inf ( mdi ) sol
lut
fur , if the fea tar val
if the con ( 123 ) are con , the exi a uni sol wit the exp fam ( 123 ) whi sat the .
amo all ( not nec exp ) sol to equ ( 123 ) , the exp sol is the one clo to in the kul - lie sen , and is thu cal the min div or min for , thi bec sim the max ent ( me ) so -
123 the lit , the ter max ent or me is use loo to ref to bot sit , i . e .
reg of whe the ini dis
is uni .
we wil fol thi pra her .
the emp exp ove som tra cor ( as in equ ( 123 ) ) , the mdi or me sol is als the max - imu lik sol of the exp fam .
for mor inf , see ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in par ,
the mdi or me sol can be fou by an ite pro suc as the gen ite sca ( gis )
at eac ite - tio , the alg imp the alg ( 123 ) .
gis sta wit arb val by com the exp of eac fea und the cur tar val , and mod the ass det the ste siz ( see sec 123 ) .
com the exp
qui a sum ove all pos sen , a cle ins , we est wt by sam fro the dis
and usi the sam exp - .
sam fro an exp dis is a
non - tri tas .
efc sam is cru to suc tra .
sam tec wil be dis in det in sec 123 .
as wil be sho lat on in thi pap , wit the tec it is pos to tra who - sen me mod usi ver lar cor and ver man fea .
in tra a who - sen max ent mod ,
as men ear , the ter exp mod ref to all mod of the for ( 123 ) , whe the ter me mod ref to exp mod whe the par are set to sat equ ( 123 ) .
mos of thi pap dea wit me mod .
for a dif tra cri for exp - tia mod , see sec 123 .
com to con me mod
it is ins to com the who - sen me mod wit con me mod , whi hav see con suc rec in lan mod ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the con mod usu has the for :
one mus com
rec dur tra for eac wor pos in the
whe the fea are fun of a spe wor - his
mor imp , - pai , and so is the bas is not a tru con it dep on and thu mus be tra dat .
nam , for eac tra dat
qui sev : tra a mod tha inc ) - gra and
is the voc .
thi com bur is
lon - dis wor cor fea on som 123 mil wor can tak hun of day of com ( 123 , p . 123 ) .
it is thi bot tha has hin the wid use of the me fra in lan mod .
in com , in our new mod the uni nor con nee not be cal ( see sec 123 ) .
thi not onl spe up tra , but it als sig spe up usi the mod in app suc as spe rec .
in fac , whe use wit sim fea , our mod can be app
mod emp a com num of par .
the mai dra of the con me mod are thu the sev com bot of tra ( esp -
wit rou the sam amo of com as an ) - gra cia of com - ) , and the dif in mod -
ing who - sen phe .
the who - sen me mod add bot of the iss .
a nal not of com : a who - sen me mod inc the sam fea as a con me mod is in fac not ide to the lat .
thi is bec the tra pro use for con me mod res the com of the fea exp to his ob - ser in the tra dat ( see ( 123 ) or ( 123 , sec 123 ) ) .
thi bia the sol in an int and som app - pri way .
for exa , con wor tri fea of
for som wor
cor in the tra dat , thi wil aff the sol of the con me mod .
in fac , if the are per cor , alw co - occ in the sam sen , the re -
and spe con the two fea sul s wil lik be one hal of wha the val wou
hav bee if onl one of the fea wer use .
thi is ben - eci to the mod , sin it cap cor tha are lik to rec in new dat .
how , a who - sen me mod inc the sam fea wil not use the cor - , unl it is exp ins to do so via a sep fea .
thi is bec the tra - ing dat is not act use in who - sen me tra , exc ini to der the fea tar val .
nor and per
jus as it is inf to cal exa fea exp - tat for who - sen mod , it is equ inf
for , thi is not nec for tra -
ing : sam ( and hen exp est ) can be , as wil be sho in sec 123
usi the mod as par of a cla ( e . g . , a spe rec - eit , bec the rel ran of the dif cla is not cha by a
to com the nor con - don wit kno - niz ) doe not req kno of -
sin , uni con .
not tha thi is not the cas for con exp mod .
non , at tim it may be des to app , per in ord to com per .
wit the who -
sen mod thi can be don as fol .
thu z can be app to any des acc fro a
be the num of sen and wor in it , res
v be the unn mod - ica mad to the ini mod : 123
by the nor con we hav :
fro whi we get : - 123 of sen dra fro 123 .
oft , sui lar sam is bas on an ) - gra .
a rea efc sam tec for ) - gra is des lat .
to est red in per - wor per ( ( n ( the : 123 bas , let be a tes set , and let ) dy ~ | and ) |
z ~ | i ari mea
whe the ari mea is tak wit res to* : 123 and the geo mea wit res toz .
123 , i . e .
if the tes set is als sam fro the bas
dis , it fol fro the law of ine of ave - age tha the new per wil alw be hig .
thi , how , is app bec any cor to an ini - tia pro dis wil ass a low lik ( and hen hig per ) to dat gen by tha dis -
sub in the est of z , the est per
it fol the tha the per red rat is :
dis tra
unt now we dis pri max ent or max lik tra .
how , who - sen exp mod can als be tra to dir min the err rat in an app suc as spe rec .
thi is kno as min cla err ( mce ) tra - ing , or dis tra .
the log - lik of a
fea is giv
the las ter is a wei sum , whi can be dir ( alb onl loc ) opt for mce usi a heu gri sea suc as pow alg , whi sea the
who - sen exp mod wit (
spa den by the s .
in fac , the sec ter ( mwo
can als be ass a wei , and sco not rel to lan mod can be add to the mix as wel , for joi opt .
thi is a gen of the lan wei and wor ins pen par cur use in spe rec .
for an att in thi dir ,
con who - sen mod
so far we hav dis non - con mod of the
re - int the con for of the exp mod , ref to the sen his , nam the seq of sen fro the beg - nin of the doc or con up to ( but not inc - ing ) the cur sen .
the mod the bec :
in ord to mod cro - sen eff , one can alb wit som mod
alt the nor con is no lon uni - ver , it is sti not nee for n - bes res of a spe rec out .
thi is bec res is typ don one sen at a tim , wit all com hyp sha the sam sen his .
we wil not pur mod of thi typ any fur in thi pap , exc to not tha the can be use to exp ses wid inf , suc as top and oth dia
max ent mod tra
sin exp sum ove all sen we wil est the exp
thi sec , we des sev sta tec for sam fro exp dis , and eva the efc for gen nat lan sen .
t by sam
gib sam ( 123 ) is a wel kno tec for sam fro exp dis .
it was use in ( 123 ) to sam fro the pop of cha str .
we wil now des how to use it to gen who sen fro
cli thr all wor pos in som ord ) .
to all tra int sen of any len , we do
cho a wor at ran acc to the dis -
an unn joi exp dis , the pre alt met whi are mor efc in thi dom .
rep by an ord wor , whi eff len the sen by one wor .
sen .
thi con a sin ste in the ran wal in the und mar eld .
to gen a sin sen fro
, sta fro any arb sen , and ite as fol : 123
cho a wor pos ( eit ran or by cy - \ be the sen pro by rep the wor in sen wit the wor
in the voc
pla tha wor in pos in the
the end - of - sen pos is als con for whe the las wor pos in the sen is pic , fro the gib dis dra the ini sen fro a rea dis - 123 .
thi ten to red the nec num - for an ini sen use the nal ( or som in - at eac ite , con onl a sub of the vo -
ter ) sen fro a pre ran wal .
thi aga ten to red the nec num of ite .
how , the res sen may be som cor wit the pre sam
gen sam sen fro a gib dis as des abo is qui slo .
to spe thi up , the fol var are use :
the end - of - sen sym < / s> is als con .
if cho , thi eff sho the sen by
aft eno ite of the abo pro , the re - sul sen is gua to be an unb sam
123 is not the kno how man ite are nee to pra - tic gua unb sam .
in our exp we use sev
but , suc as a uni bas on the tra dat ,
cab for rep .
any sub can be cho
ber of ite per ste .
123 is kno as the lon cha app .
the is an ong and hea deb in the com sta com bet lon cha and sho cha sup .
as lon as the und mar cha rem er - god .
thi tra off the com cos per it - era aga the mix rat of the mar cha ( tha is , the rat at whi the ran wal con to the und equ dis ) .
sen is acc wit pro
thi new
aff the sam efc in the exp rep in thi pap , we use a uni dis .
is ret .
aft all wor pos hav bee exa , the res sen is add to the sam , and thi pro is rep . 123 the dis
eve wit the imp , gib sam is not the mos efc for thi dom , as the pro of a gre man sen mus be com to gen eac sam .
met sam ( 123 ) , ano mar cha mon car tec , app mor app for thi sit .
an ini sen is cho as bef .
for eac is pro fro a in tha po -
as in gib sam , ada the met alg - rit to sen of var - len req car .
in one sol , we pad eac sen wit end - of - sen tok
cho wor pos , a new wor to rep the ori wor sit , res in a pro new sen
oth , the ori wor use to gen new wor can for eac pos < / s> up to a xed len .
a sen bec sho if dis use to gen new sen can mus be sim to the dis
we are att to in imp sam , a sam
era acc to som sen dis sim mus be clo to*
cor the bia int by sam fro
, eac sam
we eva the met ( exc gib
in app met sam , ins of rep a sin wor at a tim it is pos to rep lar uni .
in par , in ind sam we con rep - ing the who sen in eac ite .
for efc , the
123 sam pro is sti cor if the cur sen is add to the sam aft eac wor pos is exa how , thi pro bec les wel - den whe we con var - len sen .
the las non - < / s> tok is cha to < / s> , lon if the rst < / s> tok is cha to som els .
for efc sam .
to tim , so tha
sam , whi pro too slo ) on som of the mod to
whi sam met is bes dep on the nat of
tab 123 : mea and sta dev ( of mea ) of fea exp est for sen - len fea for thr sam alg ove ten run
spe con , unt the end - of - sen sym is gen -
fro the beg - of - sen sym , and ite gen -
be des in sec 123
the mod emp a tri
as the ini dis
( gen sen fro a ) - gra mod can be don qui efc : one sta era a sin wor acc to the ) - gra mod and the era .
gen a sin wor fro an ) - gra mod ste .
whi thi com is not tri - exp dis . ) the , tak
ial , it is far mor efc tha sam dir fro an to be a tri - gra mod for ind and imp sam is ver eff .
to mea the eff of the dif sam alg , we did the fol .
usi an exp - nen mod wit a bas tri tra on 123 mil wor of swi tex ( ( 123 ) ) and a voc of som 123 , 123 wor , for eac of the sam met we gen - era ten ind sam of 123 , 123 sen .
we est the exp of a set of fea on eac sam - ple , and cal the emp var in the est of the exp ove the ten sam .
mor efc sam alg sho yie low var .
in our exp , we fou tha ind sam - pli and imp sam bot yie exc per - for , whi wor - bas met sam per sub wor .
as an exa , we est exp - tio for sen - len fea of the for
ove ten sam of siz 123 , 123
in tab 123 , we dis the mea and sta dev of the ten exp est for eac of the ve sen - len fea und thr sam alg .
the efc of imp and ind sam - pli dep on the dis bet the gen dis -
onc the dis bec too lar , met sam , and the re -
and the des dis
, tha dis wil gro wit eac tra ite .
can be use for one ite , say ite (
is arg a bet mod tha the ini
sul sam ret .
sub ite can re - use tha sam via imp or ind sam wit
not tha , eve if tra wer to sto at 123 , sin it has mov con ( by our ass -
usi the tec we dis abo , tra a who - sen me mod is fea eve wit lar cor and man fea .
and yet , tra tim is not neg .
som ide for red the com bur whi we hav not yet exp inc :
tio ) tow sat the fea con .
the rst few ite ( we onl nee to kno the di - rec and rou mag of the cor to the
use onl rou est ( i . e .
sma sam siz ) in 123 s ) ; inc sam siz whe app con - det the sam siz dyn , bas on the add fea gra ( thi has alr pro it -
sel eff at lea ane , as rep in sec -
num of tim eac fea was obs so far .
ste siz
in gis , the ste siz for fea upd is inv rel to the num of act fea .
as sen typ hav man fea , thi may res in ver slo con .
imp ite sca ( iis ) ( 123 ) use a lar eff ste siz tha gis , but req a gre dea mor boo -
nit , we wou tak
how , whe fea exp are nea the tar val , iis can be clo app wit equ ( 123 ) is tak to be a wei ave of the fea
onl ove the sen in the sam use to cal ex - pec .
thi tec res in con in all of
sum ove all sen i . e . , if the set of sen wer
in our imp , we app fro equ ( 123 ) we can see tha if< int a gau pri on1
to smo our mod , we use the fuz max ent met rst des by ( 123 ) : we
val and sea for the
max a pos mod ins of the max lik - lih mod .
thi has the eff of cha equ ( 123 )
for som sui var par
niq , we fou tha ove - tra ( ove ) was nev a pro .
for a det ana of thi and oth smo tec for max ent mod , see ( 123 ) .
wit thi tec -
fea set and exp
in thi sec we des sev exp wit the new mod , usi var fea set and sam tec -
niq .
we sta wit the sim rec of ) - gra
usi gib sam , pro wit lon dis and cla bas lex rel usi imp sam , and end wit syn par - bas fea .
for sub wor usi sem fea , see ( 123 ) .
to tes the fea of gib sam and gen val - ida our app , we bui a who - sen me mod usi a sma ( 123 wor ) tra set of bro new to be uni , and use uni -
gra , big and tri fea of the for
( 123 ) utt
we set : 123
# of tim ) - gra occ ino
the fea wer not int all at the sam tim .
in - ste , the uni fea wer int rst , and the mod was all to con .
nex the big fea wer int , and the mod aga all to con .
fin the tri fea wer int .
thi res in fas con tha in the sim int of all fea typ .
tra was don by gib sam
bel we pro sam sen gen by gib sam fro var sta of the tra pro .
ta - ble 123 lis sam sen gen by the ini mod ,
bef any tra too pla .
sin the ini s wer all
set to zer , thi is the uni mod .
tab 123 thr 123 lis sam sen gen by the con mod af - ter the int of uni , big and tri fea , res .
it can be see fro the exa sen tha the mod ind suc inc the inf pro by the res fea .
the mod des abo inc onl con - tio fea whi are eas to inc in a sim
123 thi pap we hav bee ref to the uni of mod as a sen .
but of cou , our met can be use to mod any wor seq or utt , whe or not it is con wit lin bou .
nat , lin ind fea may or may not be app to non - sen .
con lan mod .
thi was don for dem - tiv pur onl .
the mod is una of the nat or com of the fea .
arb fea can be acc - mod wit vir no cha in the mod str or
<s> eno car gre get if o .
ans nev < / s> <s> dea you bot the rig bac wel bot < / s> <s> mon tha new any you wro muc mea < / s> <s> a .
hon wev me gre loo tod n
tab 123 : sen gen by gib sam fro an
zer , thi is the uni mod .
ini ( unt ) mod .
sin all s wer ini to
<s> wel ver don a are not liv the < / s> <s> i rig of not so ang is don < / s> <s> i are fou thi kno don abo of < / s> <s> c .
go are to a it had so < / s> <s> off the mor jus poi wan mad wel < / s>
tab 123 : sen gen by gib sam fro a who - sen me mod tra on uni fea
<s> do you wan to don c .
was you < / s> <s> the i do you hav a a us < / s> <s> but a los ang ask c .
new are < / s> <s> we wil you hav to be age and < / s> <s> the way is the do you thi on < / s>
tab 123 : add big fea .
as we men ear , gib sam tur out to be the lea efc of all sam tec we con - ere .
as we wil sho nex , muc lar cor and man mor fea can be fea tra wit the mor efc
in our nex exp we use a muc lar cor and a ric set of fea .
our tra dat con of 123 , 123 , 123 wor ( nea 123 , 123 sen ) of swi tex ( swb ) ( 123 ) .
fir , we con a con tri mod on thi dat usi a var of kne - ney smo ( 123 ) ,
gen ) - gra and fea sel and use it as our ini dis .
we the em - plo fea tha con the fre of wor ) - gra ( up to ) =12 ) , dis - two ( i . e .
ski one wor ) wor ) - gra ( up to ) =12 ) ( 123 ) , and cla ) - gra ( up to ) =12 ) ( 123 ) .
we par our voc ( of som 123 , 123
wor ) int 123 , 123 , and 123 cla usi the wor cla - ing alg of ( 123 ) on our tra dat .
<s> wha do you hav to liv los ang < / s> <s> a .
bus new tok < / s> <s> be of say im not at thi it < / s> <s> bil dor bee wel i thi the mos < / s> <s> do you hav to be in the way < / s>
tab 123 : add tri fea .
tab 123 : top - 123 wer and ave ran of bes hyp usi var fea set .
a cla uni , and ind tha the tri mod ove - gen wor fro thi cla .
on fur exa , the cla tur out to con a lar fra of the rar wor .
thi ind tha per the smo of the tri - gra mod cou be imp .
tal to you kno to you kno how abo you kno kin of a
to sel spe fea we dev the fol pro - ced .
fir , we gen an art cor by sam
) - gra wit lar dis ( acc to sta ) bet tra cor and tri - gen cor of sam siz ) - gra wit tok are dis -
not rep a cla who two mos fre mem are fro our ini tri dis .
thi tri eac ) - gra , we com its cou in the tri cor sig ( usi a fea to our mod . 123 we tri thr on the 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 , 123 ) - gra fea , re - ) - gra wit zer cou wer con to in tab 123 , we dis the ) - gra wit the hig sco .
the maj of the ) - gra inv a 123 - gra
or 123 - gra tha occ zer tim in the tra cor and occ man tim in the tri cor .
the are cle exa of lon - dis dep tha are not mod - ele wel wit a tri mod .
how , the las fea is
to tha in the tra cor .
if the two cou dif tes ) , we add the cor
hav 123 cou in thi ana .
tic of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 , res in app
cor was of the sam siz as the tra cor
123 ide of imp a con tha is mos vio by the cur mod was rst pro by rob mer , who cal it nai dow .
we mea the imp of the fea by res
eac of our fea set for 123 ite of ite sca eac com tra run too les tha thr hou on a 123 mhz pen pro com .
for eac fea set , we tra the cor mod to 123
we use imp sam to cal exp .
how , ins of gen an ent new sam for eac ite , we gen a sin cor fro our ini tri mod , and re - wei thi cor for eac ite usi imp sam .
( thi tec may res in mut inc con for rar fea , but con can sti be ass by
aft ini all red the ste siz wit eac ite . ) we tra - bes lis ( e ll ) whi wer gen -
tes set of 123 , 123 wor .
the tri ser as a bas -
for eac mod , we com bot the top - 123 wor er - ror rat and the ave ran of the lea err hyp .
the gur wer com rst by com the new lan sco wit the exi aco sco , and aga by con the lan sco onl .
res for the thr lar fea set are sum in tab 123 ( for the sma fea set imp was sma sti ) .
whi the spe fea we sel her mad onl a sma dif - fer in n - bes res , the ser to dem the ext gen of our mod : any com pro of the sen whi is cur not ade mod can ( and sho ) be add int the mod .
era by the jan sys ( 123 ) on a swi / cal
syn fea
in the las set of exp , we use fea bas on var - len syn cat to imp on an ini - tia tri mod in the swi dom .
our tra - ing dat was the sam swi cor use in sec -
due to the oft agr nat of swi lan ( inf , spo tel con ) , we cho to use a sha par tha , giv an utt , pro onl a at seq of syn con .
the syn fea wer the den in ter of the con -
the sha swi par
the sha swi par ( 123 ) was des to par spo , con spe in unr dom .
it is ver rob and fas for suc sen .
fir , a ser of pre ste are car out .
the inc eli - ing wor rep , exp con , and cle dis .
nex , the par ass a par - of - spe tag to eac wor .
for exa , the inp sen
oka i uh you kno i thi it mig be cor
wil be pro int
i / nnp thi / vbp it / prp mig / aux be / vb cor -
as the nex ste , the par bre the pre and tag sen int one or mor sim cla , whi are cla con an ine ver for and a sub .
thi sim the inp and mak par mor rob .
in our exa abo , the par wil gen two sim
sim 123 : i / nnp thi / vbp sim 123 : it / prp mig / aux be / vb cor / jj
fin , wit a set of han gra rul , the par par eac sim cla int con .
the par is sha sin it doe gen emb con - sti i . e . , the par tre is at .
in the exa , sim 123 has two con :
( np ) ( ( np hea ) i / nnp ) ( vb ) ( ( vp hea ) thi / vbp )
and sim 123 has thr con :
( np ) ( ( np hea ) it / prp ) ( vb ) ( mig / aux ( vp hea ) be / vb ) ( prd ) ( cor / jj )
the par som lea a few fun wor ( e . g .
to , of , in ) unp in the out .
for the pur of fea - tur sel , we reg eac of the fun wor as a con .
cou thi way , the are a tot of 123
fea typ
as men abo , the sha par bre an inp sen - ten int one or mor sim cla , whi are the fur - the bro dow int at seq of con .
we de - ned thr typ of fea bas sol on the con typ i . e . , we ign the ide of wor wit the con -
con seq fea : for any con
tur res tra cla tri fea , ex - cep tha the cor to a var num of wor .
seq of i lau is np vb whi tha of i see a bir is np vb np .
con tri fea : for any ord con -
fea is a rel of con seq fea - tur , sin it doe req the pos and num of con to mat exa .
as an exa , bot
seq and sim cla , 123
=12 if and onl if the con seq of sim cla ex - =12
for ins , 123 np vb i thi 123 np vb prd it mig be cor l , and so for .
123 np vb it mig be cor 123
con set fea : for any set of con ,
=12 if and onl if the con set of sen =12
thi set of 123 np , vb i lau 123 np , vb i see a bir + , alt the con
=12 if and onl if sen con tha con seq at lea
thi set of fea -
the sam siz as the tra cor , by sam fro : 123 of the ini mod , and tha add suc a fea sim cla of the art cor .
let be and ( be the tha in the art cor
we ran bot cor thr the sha par and cou the occ of eac can fea .
if the num of tim a fea was act in the tra cor dif sig - nic fro tha in the art cor , the fea was con imp and was inc int the mod .
our rea was tha the dif is due to a dec
wil x tha dec .
we ass tha our fea occ ind , and are the bin dis .
mor pre , we had two ind set of ber tri .
one is the set of sim cla of the tra cor .
the oth is the
fea sel
we fol the pro des in sec 123 to nd use fea .
we gen an art cor , rou
the num of tim a fea occ in the tra cor
tru occ pro ass wit eac cor .
( see for exa ( 123 , pag 123 ) ) .
we inc int our
we tes the hyp the gen lik rat tes , we rej
123 was rej .
mod tho fea who
= ' = had the mos sig tai ) .
the fea sta sco 123 in the tes , wit =12 occ in the swb cor and =12 in the art cor
int is the fea 123 , and =12 , =12
one may sus tha thi is whe
con seq fea : the wer 123 , 123 can - dat fea of thi typ tha occ at lea onc in the two cor .
of tho , 123 , 123 sho a sig dif bet the two cor at a 123 con lev ( two -
the ini tri mod mak up som unl phr .
loo at the 123 sim cla con thi :
f , wit
so i hav nev rea int and the mig pra tha we hav goo tha you cou las but i wou sur and you can con
sim , the fea sco - 123 , =12 and =12
thi fea sta for a per
pla sim cla for tha has nev bee gen - ate in the art cor , pro bec it con a lon - dis dep .
ind , the cor sim - ple cla in swb are :
wha are do you wor in wha are do you liv in wha hom do you liv in wha exe do you get inv in
sco , 123 , is1
con set fea : the fea are mor gen - era tha con seq fea and thu the are few of the .
a tot of 123 , 123 can con set fea occ in eit cor , whi 123 sho a sig - nic dif .
the one wit the mos sig
, wit =12 and =12
or a tot and a pro if a wha
lik con seq fea , the wer som con - sti set fea tha occ onl in the art cor - - sco of 123 wit
for exa , 123 =12 and =12 :
cor , suc as1 wit z - sco 123 , =12 sig .
the fea =12 and =12 is ano goo exa of the dec
con tri fea : 123 , 123 can fea of thi typ app in the cor , of whi 123 , 123 wer
the wer als fea tha onl occ in the swb
but he nev som we the gym eve som it rea som rea bad mys som som on cha 123
of the ini tri mod :
per and wor err rat
per und the new max ent mod was es -
we inc the 123 con seq fea , 123 con set fea , and 123 con tri - gra fea int a who - sen max ent lan - gua mod , and tra its par wit the gis alg - rit .
the bas per of a 123 , 123 - wor swb tes
set cal und the ini mod was 123 .
the tim as 123 123 , a rel imp of onl 123 .
nex , we tes spe rec wor err rat by n - bes lis res .
a 123 - bes lis wit 123 , 123 wor was use .
the wer was 123 wit the ini mod and 123 wit all of the syn fea add , a mer 123
in try to und the dis res of the las sec , we ana the lik eff of fea on the - nal mod .
the upp bou on imp fro a sin is the kul lie dis bet
the tru dis of1 ( as est by the emp dis - ( the dis of1 acc
to the cur mod ) ( 123 , p .
the eff of mul fea - tur is not nec add ( in fac , it cou be sup - or sub - add ) .
non , the sum of the ind ef - fec may sti giv som ind of the lik com
eff .
for the syn fea we use , we com :
is sig lar .
the sec ter on the rig - han sid is usu neg .
the two fac aff thi
whi tra int an exp per red of , whe 123 is the ave num of wor in a sen ) .
the pot imp of the fea is ap -
par ver lim .
we the nee to see fea
) and the num are thu the pre of the fea ( ? log dis bet the tru and the mod ( mwo sen to a hum rea ? is suc a fea ( whe ? l ) .
it is , of cou , ai - har to com
eve , eve a rou app of it may be qui use - ful .
bas on thi ana , we hav sub foc our att on der a sma num of fre ( and lik mor com ) fea , bas on the not of sen - ten coh ( ( 123 ) ) .
in the fea we use , the lat was qui lar , but the for was ver sma .
thu , we nee to con on mor com fea .
an ide fea sho occ fre eno , yet ex - hib a sig dis .
doe the sen mak
fre fea are als com pre .
bec the tra bot in who - sen me mod - els is in est fea exp via sam , the com cos is det mos by how rar the fea are and how acc we wan to mod the .
the mor fre the fea , the les the com .
not tha com cos of tra dep muc les on the voc , the amo of tra dat , or the num - ber of fea .
sum and dis
we pre an app to inc arb lin - tic inf int a sta mod of nat lan .
we des efc alg for con who - sen me mod , off sol to the que of sam , ste siz and smo .
we dem our app in two dom , usi lex and syn fea - tur .
we als int a pro for fea sel whi see and exp dis bet an exi mod and the tra cor .
who - sen me mod are mor efc tha con - dit me mod , and can nat exp sen - lev phe .
it is our hop tha the imp
wil bre the me usa bar whi her hin - der exp and int of mul kno sou .
thi wil hop ope the ood to exp , by man res , wit var kno sou whi the bel to car sig inf .
suc sou
num agr , par , oth par - sup
dis of ver and ten in the sen var asp of gra ( per agr , dia lev inf pro and oth tim rel inf ( spe
sin all kno sou are inc in a uni - for way , a lan mod can foc on whi pro - tie of lan to mod as opp to how to mod the .
att can thu be shi to fea ind .
ind , we hav sta wor on an int fea ind met , rec it as a log reg pro ( 123 , 123 ) .
tak tog , we hop tha the eff wil hel ope the doo to put lan bac int lan
rat , pau , .
we are gra to san khu , fre jel and pra nar for hel dis dur the ear sta of thi wor to lar was for muc adv on sam tec to kla zec for use of his par and to the rev for man tho sug and
