an on of mi - ed ng is de to he em of on on in ow ty am es .
ng a et of im - es of en le ed er a od of ur hs , he on on sk is ed as a ph - ed mi - ed ng ob - em , re ly a ew ng es re la - ed .
he ce of in ge in ph on is ed , nd ri - ts re ed at ly ow he an - ge of mi - ed ng er rd ed ng .
he ta ed in he dy is le to he ch ty to ur - ge er on of is em .
he ol of er ce at ie on ni - ty as a ic ge , re er za nd er od ms om us gs ge , to he ht of ts , ff , nd ty .
to lp or he es - ce of od in he ge , a am , es ed he 23 , is ed in a ke ne nd ed on he le re od is ed .
er ng ed on he am , he al of ( st ) sh ee od is ed th nt es nt ut he ol .
he am rs ng es or re -
tp : / / ww . cs . mu . du / ke , ie on
ng in oc .
of he 23 st ml op on ng th ly ed ng ta , nn , ny , 23
py - ht 23 by he or ( s ) / er ( s ) .
ch in mi - ed ne ng .
is er ts an on of he em of on ti - on in is ow ty eo ta , ng am im - es of en le at re ed er a od of ev - al hs .
he ts ht he ce of do - in ge in mi - ed ng , nd ly te he es of ng th ed nd la - ed ta er rd ed ng .
in nt rs , re as en a al nt of rk ng ow st to te ed ta to su - ed ng ( hu , 23 ) .
al mi - ed ng es ve en ed or al ap - ns in nt as , ch as on al , xt on ( am et al . , 23 ) , nd at - cs ( on et al . , 3; in et al . , 23 ) .
in he xt of er on , al ng ts ve en ed or ct on .
in et al .
ed a ue ed on co - ng ( um & ll , 23 ) or ng al rs in a ay at es ly a ll ty of ed ta , ng ed ta to ve ce er me .
rg et al .
( 23 ) nt a mi - ed ch to ng ct de - on ms ed on lf - ng , nd rm en - ve ts th a te - of - he - rt or ( ei - an & de , 3; an , a; ei - an , 3b ) ng at a el ed in is er an ve ts le to a el ed in he al er ng a ch er et of ly
in is rk , we be a ew on of mi - ed ng to he em of on on in am es , re he eo am as a ow me te , nd he es re of ow ty .
ly , ny of he es ay ve no ce , as he on ld be ac - ng ay om he ra .
we ss he on of he
23
ur al am es .
et , nd he on of he mi - ed rn - ng em .
he sk of ce on , of se , as an ve e; ee ( ao et al . , 23 ) or a ur - ey .
er , to he st of ur ge , on ti - on in eo ta as ot en ly ed us - ng mi - ed ng ds .
ly ve ge ng es re ed in ur k; we te at re ed er on es an be ly ed to he rk , nd ld ly ve he ce .
ut he it of ur on is to ue at mi - ed ng ds ay be ve as a ry ol to ed ge ro - ng .
he ta we ve ed nd at ms he is or he ts ed re ll be de il - le to he ch ty . 23
he am et
he et ts of 23 es th ne nd ly ne on in it .
re 23 ws ur al es om he ta .
he sk is ot al :
he es of ch on re ed on ti - le ys ng a ur th od .
le ed
ns or ng he et an be nd at tp :
es , ir es , nd ne on en ew a rd .
we te a eo ce io re im - es or a up of le re ly ed in a ew ng es , nd he le st be og - ed on er ys .
re we se ed ta in he st ay of a ns ce , nd st on he ng es of he ay nd ll er ys .
is is ch re lt an ng ly on he me ay , or ng ed ta to me om ll
he am is a ow ty am .
ch me as 23 23 on so es of ar ay le re ll .
he me te is a le er 23 es er nd , nd ng in he ge is om - ex nd ng .
a on ld rn ir ce ay om he ra , nd ly ne rd of he es in no ce at
ce ly a ew es re ed , nd ll of he st im - es re le , he sk is a al te or he on of mi - ed ng es .
23
ft : an nd ge ed or nd on .
ht : wn of he 23 ts by te .
ta on
we ed en rs to ar in en am es er ur hs .
ot ll ts ld ow up or ry ke .
he am is ed in he om - er ce ge , ut we ed a ve ra ed in ur ce , nd ok es om he ra er a ew me as le .
in ch ke , he ts ok ns ng he ne , ng nd , nd ng ly , or le by ng he er or ng th ff - ra ol - es , or ve to en es er ke .
as a lt , we ed es re he ls ve ng es nd re at a ge of es om he ra .
we is - ed ll es at re ed by ic se in he ke ne , or at ed re an ne on in he ne .
is er nt ed as to ke he sk le to fy as a st p; re is no on at he ds we nt ow ld ot be ed to rk th es ng le le .
nd or on
to ly re he or on of an al in he ge , ed ly on ir ng , we ad to te im or er om he nd .
as er on is ot he us of he rk , we ed ly ve ge ng ds .
a le nd on hm as ed to nd he nd .
we ed he er - el ns nd es of ed , en nd ue ls om 23 nd es .
re 23 ws he an nd .
ng he ns nd es of he nd , we ob - ed he nd ea in ch ge by ng .
ls ng re an ee rd ns om he an re ed as nd .
to ve he ty of he nd or am ,
we ed he nd ea ng al ms ( in , 23 ) .
er ng as ed se he nd ed om nd ac - on en ed ly rt of he dy nd ed nd as .
we st ed ll ds in he nd by ng he en on th a 23 el - de re .
we en ed ly - ed el ks ( ch as ad nd er so ) ng he se ra - on th a 23 - el - by - 23 - el ar ck .
ly , we de re he nd ns he re on by ng he nd to de ng ls by er ng he nd th a sk of 23 ls in us .
nd se re is ly ne on in ch im - ge , we ed ll ut he st us ck of ls in he ed nd .
re 23 ws me ed nd es .
er is ng he nd ea is ed by a 23 - al or , ch ts of a 23 - in ue am , a 23 - in on am , nd a 23 - in
ce ge on
he ce of he on is ed as a ll ge , ch is ed om he ts of a ce or ( er - an a; 3b ) .
te at is is ot a ce er ( a ce er as ot ed or is sk ) .
it ly de - ts he ce of al or le es , nd ts he ed er nd us of he ed ce .
we ok a re ea nd he er as he ce ge .
if no ce as ed , he ce ge is ty .
re 23 ws a ew ce es as ed by he ce or .
ry of he et
in ry , he et is ed of 23 es or en ls , ed ng en es er ur hs .
re is a ht ce in he ss bu -
23
es of ds ed by nd on nd al ms .
23
es of ce es ed by he ce or .
on , nd ly a et of ls re nt in ch ay ( er to le 23 or he wn ) .
ll 3% of he es ( 23 ut of 23 ) do ot in a ce .
ch ge in he et is ed by ee es :
me : he te nd me he ge as en .
or am of ed nd : a 23 di - al or ng of ee ms of he nd ls , a 23 - in ue am , a 23 - in on am , nd a 23 - in ss is -
ce ge : a re or ge of he ce ( if nt ) .
as ed ve , is re is ng in ut 3% of he es .
he hs
ph - ed mi - ed ng ds ly on he on nd ty of he ph .
he ph ld ct in ge gh he ty on at is ed to gn es ( nd ir ts ) .
or he am ta he es in he ph re he es .
an ge is ed en wo es ng to he ng ia :
me es .
le ly ve nd in he ge at te ed , us nt es re ly to in he me on .
we nt is ge in he ph by ng an ge en wo es if ir me ce is ss an a ld 23 ( ly a ew ds ) .
or 23 : me ge
or 23 : or ge
or 23 : or ge
or 23 : or ge
or 23 : ce ge
23
a om ge nd ts rs in he ph .
or es .
he or am is ly er - ed by a ns el .
we me le ge es on nt ys , so at he or am ds to be le ss le ys .
er , it is an ve re ng a er me od ( 23 ) , ch as lf a ay .
in he ph or ry ge i , we nd he et of es ng a me ce en ( 23 , 23 ) to i , nd ct i th ts kc - st rs ( in ms of ne ty on ms ) in he et .
he er kc is a ll er , ch as ee .
ce es .
we se ce ty er er me ns .
or ry ge i th a ce , we nd he et of es re an 23 rt om i , nd ct i th ts kf - st or in he et .
we se el - se an ce en ce es , re he ir of ce es is ed to he me ze .
he al ph is he on of he ee ds of es .
he es re ed .
we ed 23 = 23 ds , 23 = 23 rs , kc = 23 nd kf = 23 ow .
ly , se rs lt in a ed ph .
it is le to ze he le ph .
ad , we ow he rs of a om de in re 23
we se he le an ld nd ic on hm ( hu et al . , 23 ) on he am et .
et l be he er of ed es , u he er of ed es , nd n = l + u .
he ph is ed he n n ht ix w .
et d be he al ee ix th ii = pj ij , nd ne he al
l = d w
et yl be an lc el ix , re c = 23 is he er of es .
or i = 23 .
l , yl ( i , c ) = 23 if ed ge i is in ss c , yl ( i , c ) = 23 se .
en he ic on on or he ed ta is
yu = 23
re uu is he ix of l on ed es nd so on .
ch ow of yu an be ed as he on of or es p ( yi = yl ) or c = 23 .
c nd i u .
on is ed ut by ng he ss th he al or in ch ow .
in ( hu et al . , 23 ) it as so en wn at or - ng ss on ge an be ul .
he on qc of ta th el c an be ed om he ed et .
in ar , he ss ss on ( mn ) ic es he rs to et he or - ns .
at is , ne ds a et of ts 23 ,
yu ( i , 23 ) :
: ac x
yu ( i , c ) = 23 :
an le nt lk on he ph .
he lk ts om an ed ge , gh ed es , nd ds at a
on of an ed nt i is ed by ng yu ( i , c ) .
in he ts ow we rt he cy of th he ic on nd mn .
nt ks on he ph
he ic hm ed ve es a et of in - ar ns so at he ed el of ch le is he ge of he ed ls of ts ed gh - rs nd he al ls of ts ed rs .
he ns or he ms ns an ( ly ) be ed by ng a nt lk ng om an ed le i , ys ng to he or th he st re en to he ed el .
at is , et y be he ed el or i .
if we re at de j , we ll lk to js or de k if
k = yu ( 23 , y )
he nt lk es il we ch a ed ex - le .
wo nt lk hs re wn in re 23 nd re 23
al ts
we ed ic ns on he am ks .
or ch sk we ly ed he ed et ze ly , ed 23 om ls or ch la - ed et ze .
in ch al we ly ed a ed et th he ed ze om he st ay of a ns ce ly .
is is se we ed to te
a eo ce io , re le re ed nd ed on er ys .
it is re lt nd re al - ic an ng ed ta om he re et .
if a ss as ng om he ed ed et , we id he om ng .
he ng es re ed as he ed et .
we rt he on es th ic nc - ns nd mn , on wo nt hs .
he st ph is ed th rs 23 = 23 ds , 23 = 23 rs , kc = 23 , kf = 23 , he nd th kc = 23
he ts re ed in re 23
to re he ph - se mi - ed ng th - ds st a rd ed ng od , we ed a ab on of rt or ma - es ( nn , 23 ) as he ne .
or c - ss ti - ss ms , we ed a ne - st - ll me ch es c ry ms , ne or ch ss st ll he er es , nd ct he ss th he st in .
se we ve ng es on ce ub - es , he el or he vm ne es al re .
we ed an ed ar el k ( i , j ) = kt ( i , j ) + kc ( i , j ) + wf kf ( i , j ) , re kt , kc , kf re ar ls ( er ts ) on me mp , or is - am , nd ce ub - ge ( ed to 23 23 ix - if ge i ns no ce , we ne kf ( i , ) = 23
he on ts wt , wc , wf re ed th ss on .
ce he ms th ch el re ot mi - ed : he ed ta re ly ed as st ta .
we nd at he ic
an le nt lk on he ph .
he lk ts om an ed ge , gh ed es , nd ds at a
on ms he ar el vm ne ( ig - re 23 ) .
he cy an be ed if we te ss on ge th he le mn is - ic .
he ss on is ed om ed ta th ce ( dd ne ) ng .
to te he ce of ng ed ta or mi - ed ng , we re he ic nc - on th a al ed et of ze ne .
at is , or ch ed nt xi , we ve ll er ed ts nd te he ic on on he ed ta us xi .
is es a ed ng ob - em .
he ic on th ly ne ed nt is nt to he rd ed st or al - hm .
ce he al hs re se , st la - ed ts ay ot ve ny ed rs .
to al th is we ad ct xi to ts kc st ed rs in he or re , nd kf st rs in he ce re , re es re ll ed .
we ed us ns of kc nd kf , ng se ed in us ts .
ce we nt se me ge at ll , se it es ot ke se th ly ne ed nt .
he ts re wn in re 23 ( a ) th al if - nt ng of kc nd kf .
he es re ll ry ow .
ly is ws at no on of or nd ce ks if ne ly se he ed ta .
re we ee at ng ll he ed ta is te nt or ur mi - ed ng ch .
in is se , er an ng ch le to be he ed ge of ts rs , he on es a ed ge .
re 23 ( b ) ws at by ng ts ly ( in ar , ng re em - is to me - es ) ne an ly ve or - ce , ly on er es .
a ed em is to rn he rs or k - st or , i . e .
kc or or es nd kf or ce es .
we re ly ex - ng ds or ng od ph er gs om a ll et of ed es .
in is er we ed a on on sk in ow ty eb am es as a mi - ed ng em , nd ed al ts .
he ri - al up es a eo ce io : ow ge ty nd me e; ed ta is ce nd is ly le on he st ay of a ns e; fa - al on is ot ys le in he ge .
ur ts te at he mi - ed ng ms ed on ic ns re le of ti - ng he ed ta to fy en ls th er an 3% cy .
he et is ow le to he ch ty .
we ed ll he es al ts .
a al en - on is to ve in es of es re ht an th - rs : e . g . , ps ve me - es re ht an or -
we nk ry an or is lp th he ce or , nd ph ss or ul ns on im - ge ng .
we so nk he rs or ci -
am , ic on
am , ic on + mn
ed et ze
ed et ze
( a ) ic on cy
( b ) ic on + mn cy
ic on nd mn cy on wo hs .
so wn is he vm ar el ne .
( a ) he ic nc - on hm ly ms he ar el vm , ng at he mi - ed ng hm ly es he ed ta to te le in es th ir es .
( b ) he mi - ed ng hm es en re ly by ng ss on ge gh he mn ic .
ng in he am et on .
is rk as ed in rt by he al ce on er ts cr - 23 nd is - 23
an , h .
( 3a ) .
re - ic on or nt ed ct on .
ee ce on er on nd rn on ( pr ) .
