ct an ed ch to ng on ts at ng rs st rn to ap ds nd es to ir ed es , ut is is de lt by he ty of ng on on ng .
ng en ip - te ys to nd to at ey re ng es is em , ut es ts wn em or he om , ly ng to de a om ll of en th ve .
in is le , we te at ng st - nd nd - de en te es of ys on a er en ts ir on as ch as al on of he ys .
in on , on on ne ay es ng in he me in ne ek er .
se gs ge he se of on of xt - nt es as an al gy or ng ly ng on .
he gs so et ts on al ts of nt le ng .
ds ng on nt al gy ng rs er ed on
at es it an to nd a en xt ? ne er , ed on an ed ch to on , is at ul on es ( a ) ng ds nd es to nt or ed es nd ( b ) ng ax to de he te
rg ( & ) nt of gy , na te ty , pe , az 23 - 23 , sa
rg nt of gy , ty of in , on , wi , sa a .
rg x .
hu nt of er es , ty of in , on , wi , sa
rg et al .
on of se es .
se es re ly lt or he ng er se ng to ad ut ud es on to ng hy to gy .
th on ed on ng , re is nt on to on at is , ng he ds to es .
ed by ng is an on ed to ss is em by ng he te es le ng nd ng en ow to te he en ds to se es .
us rk as ed he ss of is on , ut ly en en re en he ty to ly ct th ir ts to ce he es .
re we sk er a er an de ly ve ce or he ng
wo es to ng on
an al ry of ng on as ed by ch ( 23 ) .
in at ry , on es he on nd on of ns .
ch on ds to a le ea , nd it ts of ct , ic en - on of ts ed by ct ns ch as ve , ct , nd nt .
is ry as ed a us nt of ch , st of ch ts he ry at st in ad ne .
ss , is ch ls ey to he ol ng em , ly , ow re he ct ls en ng ?
he ct ls in hs ry re ar to he ta in a er ry on , at is , ey re ly ed to he ls nt .
or he er ol , ng is ed by a an er ng he ol .
ut , ho or at ts he ct ls of he nd ? ne ty ( ee ch 3; er nd is 23 ) is at he ty of ns ng ct ls is nt to rt ng .
er , al es ( ad 3; le 23 ) nd al ns ( e . g . , rg nd ta 23 , in ss ) st at is ll ot rk .
ad ( 23 ) es he ol ry - go - nd nt to te hy on - ns st ct ls ot ad to ng .
ne at ou re ng in a gn ry , nd at ou do ot ak he al ge .
at ur al ou ve a ry en ly in he gn ge ut sh ns .
as ou ep ff he ne , ou ee a gn , nd ou sh to nd ts ng .
ou ok up in he ry he st rd in he gn .
se he on is in he gn ge , it es ot ke ny se to ou , us ou ok up he st rd in he on , ut it oo es ot lp , nd so ou ok up he st rd in at on .
om is le , it is ar at no ny ow ny ds ( ct ls ) ou ok up , at is no er ow ny ns at ou ce st he ls , ou ll be le to ne he ng of he gn ly om ns st he ls .
ad ( nd rs ) st at ne st ep ff he ol ry - go - nd by ng , or ng , he ls to ng ( e . g . , ly es ) de of he ol
rg nd ta ( 23 , 3b ) ed is ue ly .
ts in ir ts ed ur nt es of ns ( e . g . , an as as rt ) en ts nd es .
he ts , es , nd ir es of on ed ly to a ll - wn ic in , ly wo - ed es nd on us .
as he es of he ns re en to he ts , he me of he in , he es of he ts , nd he es of he es re ot ed to he ts .
he on of or st as er he ts
ng ly ng on ng ed ai
ld ce he in nd ts om he ed ns ne .
he er as at ey ld ot .
in er nt , ts re en he me of he in , es of he ns , es of ee of ix ts ( ad ke , in ke , or - le ) , nd es of 23 of he 23 es .
ts ed ns ng th he ed nd ed ts nd es .
he on of st as in er ts ld ce he ng of he ed ts nd es .
ey ld ot .
ce , th al is ( ad 3; le 23 ) nd ta te at ng ot se ly om ns st ct es .
an ve ch an be ed om he ve of ed on : gh - el ve es ( e . g . , ge , cs ) re ed in ly ch - ms of on , on , nd ct ( ou 23 , 3; in nd th 23 ) .
he al is ( rg nd on 3; rg nd ak 23 ) is ne ch ry .
it es at ge on es at he ct ls of ge ( i . e . , ds nd ax ) be ed to ed es or ns of se es .
se es ay be ed by ng he nt , as en ng at a up le ne is ng ut at up .
ly , se es ay be ed by al ls ( ou 23 ) in ry .
a al ol is an og on ng of he al re - on of he me al ms ve en he ct as ed .
a us nt of ta om ce ( e . g . , rg et al .
3; er 23 ) nd al ch ( e . g . , rg nd ak 3; an nd or 23 ) as ed he ce of ch ed ns or ge on .
he ed by ng on
on is ed nt of ge on , hy is ng so ch re lt to re an an al ge ? to ut it ly , ow is it at a ld is le to de xt nd ay it ut ud , ut ll ot nd ( e . g . , ll et al .
23 ) ? ne ty is at ng al ge ng , he ng en ol ( rd ) nd ct is ce .
or le , a er ys , re is ur up , nd ds he up to he nt , or a er ys , ve ye - ye , le ng he on .
in st , en ng to ad , a ld st us on he er - nd es nd on ng se ds to ce he er on of he rd .
it is ly at he ds nt is re in he nt , nd en en a xt ay be ed by es , ce to he es is ly to be ic .
( en gh ve rs ay ll nt to es le he er ds to he ss , he nt or is or he ld to er ds to ed es , ch as es , le he ld is ng . ) in is se , ng es a ss se in rd ng , ch ke ng to ad a xt in a ge ne es ot nd .
ll et al .
( 23 ) te at a on - le on of ts ly de ut th le on .
at is , ng ud es ed of ds in he ds ry es ot ee on .
he ed by ng on ts of wo es of es ed to ch en ow to ap ds nd es to nt nd ed es .
ng he al on ( pm ) ge , en ad le ts ut es in a ar io ( e . g . , a rm io ) .
in nt of he ld is a et of ys ch as a oy rn , or , ls , tc .
al es re ed th a re of a en fc ht .
er he ld ds a al ce ( e . g . , he er gs ay to he se ) , he ld ts ut he ce ng he ys , us ng he ld to ct ds to
rg et al .
ar ts nd ic ns ( e . g . , ho id at to om ) to ns .
on a on st ng ng , en ho ge in pm en rm ne to wo rd ns er an en ho ad he me xt , ut ad of ng he ys , se en re - ad al es ( rg et al .
23 , 3; ey et al .
23 ) .
ng pm , en re ht to ne ng ( im ) he ys .
at is , on ng he en ht , ey re ht to ne ow ey ld ct th he ys to ct ut he ce .
im es ns at re ar in ze to se ed by pm ( rg et al .
3; rg 23 ) .
hy es im rk so ll ? he al pm re ys to he ld at ng is ll ut , ly , ng ir es to ct al ls at nd to he xt .
he im re ws en to ke ge of is ge , as ll as ly ng he ld to se is or er ll - ed ll of ng rd ds to ce ed ng al
ed by ng on rs
as he ed by ng on ld be ly al , it is ed by he ty of ng es at ch ys or ng ys at ch es .
a nd on or om se is he ty of ng ny ts of ys , at is , a et of ys or ch al or up of ts .
en at ny ms re ng om - ed nd at ny ls ve er es , th of se ns ht be me by ng a ld , le ng , te er es ng a se .
ut , ll is rt of er on be as ul as pm ? re re ns to er in he ve nd he ve .
on he ve de , ng er es ay ot be as ng as ng ys .
so , he ry ce ed th he ys ( e . g . , th al nd ic on ) ay be nt or ng he rt of al ls ed or im to be ul .
on he ve de , to he nt at ss of he on ds on ( a ) ng ds to ny rt of ul on nd ( b ) ng en to ap he ic ns to ns , en ng es ng a er ay be as ul as pm .
in he ch ed xt , we ed ee ns .
in ll of he ns , en ad ts ed on a er or nd er ng rs of ts ey ok a rt on st .
in he pm on , er ng al es , en ed ay om he or to te al ys .
in he er te ( cm ) on , en ed es on he or ng he se ( ee ig .
ly , in he re - ad on , en re - ad al es .
in he re - ad on , a on - le on of he es as le on he en as in a ds re ok .
on he st ay of he nt , en ad ur ts .
on he nd ay of he nt , 23 ek er , en re ed to ge in im ( or nt re - ng in he re - ad on ) .
en en ad ur re ts or ch re as no on of es on he en .
he st wo of se ts re es ng ts in he me , ar io ed on he st ay ( e . g . , rm io ) .
he nd wo es me om an ar io ( e . g . , se io ) .
is gn ed us to er al ed nd al ns .
ll cm be as ve as pm ? ll cm be re ve an re - ad ? ll cm ad to ve se of im on ay 23 ? ll ts of im nd to ar os ? on he al de , do ve ed ns re ty th al ts ?
ng ly ng on ng ed ai
23 a en ot re ng , en ks he rt to he r; b en ot ay gh ng or en ks he rt to he r; c en ot er ly ng or en ks he rt to he or
rg et al .
a al of 23 en in he st - nd nd - es re ed om wo es .
ne ce as a ch ry in ch ts of en ng he on an ol ct ld te ir ss to te in ch .
he nd as an er ol am in a rb of on , wi .
en om he ry ed in a ry om nd en om he er ol am ed at ir ol .
al nt as ed or ll en .
en re ly ed to te in he pm ( n = 23 ) , cm ( n = 23 ) , or re - ad ( n = 23 ) ns .
om nt as ne ly or he wo es of ts to re no ic ng of ce nd on .
or ch of wo os , we te ix , ht - ce es .
ch ry ed ve al es .
in on , or ch ry we te a 23 - on es / no on st .
ve of he ns re ed at he al es ( e . g . , id en ve he or to he ns ) nd ve re ed at on en om er ts of he ry as ll as le al ns ( e . g . , id en ve to he rn er he ut he ns in he rt ) nd le al ns ( e . g . , at he nd of he ry as he or at he rn ) .
en re ly ed to rt th ne io ( he ar io ) or he er .
he en ad ur es om he ar io on he st ay , he ng wo es om at io on he nd ay ( 23 ek er ) , nd en wo es om he er , ar , io .
he se of he es as ed as ws .
st , es re ed .
en , a ir of es ed ly ly en as he st ir on ay 23 , he nd ir on ay 23 , nd he st ir on ay 23
ch ir om he nd io ed ly ly en as he nd ir on
in on , ch io ad an on at as ed in ll of he ns .
or he on , a ic re of he ry ts as ed , nd he er ed to nd ed ll of he ts .
re as so a ve - ce ce xt or ch io .
is xt as ed on he st ay to ve en ce ng om he or , ng , nd re - ng .
ly , a ee - ce ce xt as ed or ch io nd ed on he nd ay to ce ne on nd nt re - ng .
he ns or ed on re to ne ng th he es ( e . g . , ne ng on an ge , ng it th he se , tc . ) .
or he st ce in he ce xt , he er ed at as to be ed .
or he ng es of he ce xt ly , he ld ed at he or he ed .
if he ld id ot be ng th he es , he ld as ed .
on of he er re
he ts re ed ng a pt - ed eb on at ns in a rd eb er ( e . g . , la ox ) .
no al re ds to be ed or ed on a al er .
he eb ge ys he es in a ox
ng ly ng on ng ed ai
on he ft de of he en , th a fc ht on xt to he al es .
he ht de of he en ys a ic nd ge or ch io ( e . g . , a rn in he rm io ) , nd in he nd , ll es nt he ey ts nd ts in he io .
or se ts , he es re gh ty hs of he me ys ed in ur pm es .
en he ld es a al ce , he or he st ck on he ge of he ct ct to te ( is is in to ng up he ct oy in a pm dy ) .
ng re se es ng .
or le , en he ce en ks he rt to he or , he ld st ck on en , he er .
on ng so , he ge es ck to he se or , nd he ld ay se he se on .
( ng er rs ay ot ve ed he pt of ng et . ) th an ge ed to he se or , he ld st ve he se to ck on he xt nt ct or on ( in is se , he rt ) .
ow , ng he se ll ve he er nd he rt er .
a ot ne is ed nd he nt on , ng me ty in re he xt ck st ur .
er he st ry ck or he ce , he ed es me ed om he se nd in in ir ew ns , gh re ay be a ht nt in he ge to ct nt ls ( e . g . , he rt ro - ly ed to he or ) .
in rt , he re is ed to ow ly ct ns , le ng me om or or in se ng nd ng or .
en ll he ed ns or a ce re ed , a ll or rs in he er of he en as a gn to he er at he ld ay rt ng he xt ce .
on he st ay , en re ed to he ar io .
ng at , ey re ed as to at a en ht te he ys or he en in he pm on , te he er es he or en in he cm on , nd re - ad or en in he re - ad on .
is on as ed by re - on of he ve - ce ce xt .
en en ad wo es om he ar io .
he on st or se wo es as en er ng he nd ry so at re as a on al of al es en gs a ry nd ng he st .
he on ns re ad ud by he er nd he ld ed ud .
er he ts or he es re le to he en ng he ng .
en en ad wo re es om he ar io nd ey re ed on se wo .
at he nd of he st ay , he en ed a ll
on he nd ay ( 23 ek er ) , en re ed in im or nt re - ng ng he ee - ce ce xt .
is ce as ed by en ng wo ts om he ar io .
he st of se as ed ng th a ic re of he io , nd he nd as ad ut ny re .
he en re en ed on es wo ts .
en en ed he on to he nd , ar , io ng th a ic re .
en en ad wo ts om he ar io ng er im ( or en in he pm nd cm ns ) or nt re - ng .
he st of se ts as ed ng th a ic re nd he nd ad no re .
se he on of es on he nd ay ad no ly ig - nt ts , it ll ot be ed er .
ly , en re ed on he st wo ts , en a nd oy , nd ed .
rg et al .
he ns ( nd rd ns ) of st st re ed in le 23
om at le , it rs at en in he cm up ed en in he er wo ps th on ay 23 nd on ay 23 or he ar io , ut ot or he ar io .
al ns ed ng a ty of a pe 23 or of 23 ly ed se ns .
se al es re ed ng an va on he ns ct ng ld as he it of is .
se ns re ed by ng ss ll ns ( 23 er xt ) or ts in a en on .
or le , he on ct or he st ay re ed om he 23 ns ed at ay .
in he st is , he ta om he ar nd ar ts on ay 23 re ed .
re as an ct of ay , in at en id er on ay 23 an ay 23 , f ( 23 , 23 ) = 23 .
re re al ly , ut ly ng , ns or is ng .
st , ay 23 ed of es om ne io , as ay 23 ed of es om wo os , ne of ch as ly ar .
nd , on ay 23 , en ed a ng gy ( pm , cm , or re - ad ud ) at is ly to be re ve an he ay 23 gy ( im or re - ad ly ) .
rd , ll of he ay 23 es re ed by le or ic es , ut ly lf he ay 23 es re
re ng is he in ct of on , f ( 23 , 23 ) = 23 .
en in he cm on ed se in he re - ad on ( p = 23 ) .
he on of on nd ay as ot nt ( p = 23 ) , ch es at he cm on ed he re - ad on th on ay 23 en en ed es or re - ad ud , nd on ay 23 en en ed he on of es or re - ad
we ed a ar is ng he ay 23 ta nd he ay 23 ta om he ar io ly .
in is is , re as a nt ct of ay , f ( 23 , 23 ) = 23 , nd on , f ( 23 , 23 ) = 23 .
he en in he cm on er - ed he en in he re - ad on ( p = 23 ) nd he pm on ( p = 23 ) .
in , re as le ce or an on en ay nd on , f \ 23
ly , we ed he ta om ay 23 nd he ta om he ar io on ay 23
re re no nt ts in is is .
it ld be ed at he ta ed in le 23 re he ns ct of ll st ns , at is , se ns ng he on es nd se wn om er ts of he ts .
en he ns ng he on es re ed ne , he rn of ns nd rn of al ce re he me as ed ve .
er , se ce as so gh ( e . g . , on ay 23 , he ns ct re 23 , 23 , nd 23 , nd on ay 23 , ar io he ns re 23 , 23 ,
le 23 ns ( nd rd ns ) on he on st
on on ay 23
ay 23 ar
ay 23 ar
al te ( pm )
er te ( cm )
ct ze ( d ) or cm ed to re - ad
te : ns ot ly nt
ng ly ng on ng ed ai
nd 23 , or he pm , cm , nd re - ad ns , ly ) , se ta ay ct in rt ng ts .
ly , we ed to us on es of ll of he ns .
it is of st at he ve ts of ed by ng nd nd he ic es or ch en ed in pm or im , gh he ct is ed : pm nd im lp he ld to ld a al el of he rs nd ir ns , nd is al el ll be ul in ng ll ts of he ry .
he ng at he ts of ed by ng nd to er ts of he xt so lp to er he im at he on es ot st ry ut so on of he xt .
at is , ng ed by ng ps he en to er ce ns , ot st er er ts of ts ng to ed es .
is on ll be ed nd he ns ed at he nd of he ry on , ly , ll cm be as ve as pm ? ll cm be re ve an re - ad ? ll cm ad to ve se of im on ay 23 ? ll ts of im nd to ar os ? on he al de , do ve ed ns re ty th al ts ? ly , we ll ss he al ns of is ch , nd ts on to rk on ng .
is cm as ve as pm ?
ne se in he ts as at en in he cm on ed at st as ll , or en er , an en in he pm on ( p = 23 ng ll of he ta , nd p = 23 ng ta om ay 23 nd he ar io om ay 23 ) .
is ct ay ct on in he pm on ed by ng to rn ay om he er en in er to te he ys .
er , it ht so be a al ct , nd ot ly on .
or le , ng es on he en ay lp us he ld on ow to ze he ic ns en he ed to sp nd te he ts is ed .
or , ng es on he en ay ge ay so at he ld es re on he xt . 23 is st on is nt of ch on ma - es in cs ts .
ly , to he nt at he ld ys th he ve in st to ng it as a ol or a al ea , he ve es th ce ( e . g . , il et al .
23 ) .
is cm re ve an re - ad ? ll cm ad to ve se of im on ay 23 ?
en in he cm on ed se in he re - ad on , nd he ct es re ge gh to be ly nt .
on ay 23 , he ct ze ( ns d ) of cm ed to re - ad as 23 , re 23 is ed a ge ct .
on ay 23 ( im ed to re - ad ) , or he ar io , d = 23 ( a um ze ct ) .
re re al ns hy 23 ay be an te .
st , re re ly wo ts om he ar io on ay 23 , so at re as re or in he nt
23 al en id ar to ay th he es in he cm on .
or le , a ld ht te th he se a en ng , or um a ty le ng an ge .
rg et al .
of ay 23 ce ed to ay 23 ce .
nd , se of he ng , 23 - ek , on al , it is ly at me en ot me of he io on at ht ve ed in ir ed on .
it ht so be he se at re ve ce on pm ( or cm ) ht ad to ch er ts of im ed to re - ng .
or le , in rg , wn , & in ( 3a ) ( a ) ms re ly ed to ns , ( b ) he om rs ed he on ng er - ed on ns , ( c ) he ts re en om he ns re er an en by he rs , nd ( d ) rd - de en ed pm en es ed er en ks , nd ey ed im 23 es ed ss ht ks ( ng th he pm ce ) .
or se en , he ct ze of im ( ed to en in a ol up ho ad he me ts ed in he me ay ) ed om 23 to er 23
ll ts of im nd to ar os ?
or he nt ta , he er is ly no .
is er is in st to th rg et al .
( 3a , b ) nd ts om he st - ed ot nt .
in th of se ts , en ed on pm or ne io ed ts of im en ng ts om th ar nd ar os .
re re wo le es en se ts nd he nt ne , er .
st , he en ed re ve ng in he us rk .
nd , he en re er .
us , gh he ts of im re ed in he nt ch , re is on to ve at im ll er to ar os th er ce nd / or er en .
do ve ed ns re ty th al ts ?
he ng at cm ed in ce at st as od as in he pm on ds to a ve er .
se ch of he ed on re as ed ts of al ty , is ng as a se .
in ct , er , re re od ns or it .
st , ge lf ls th es nd gh ns .
at is , en a gh on of an ct ll ot de ll he ls of ts ty .
us , ng a rd to a gh te on of he ct ay en ve om - on ll .
nd , re as ng in he ts at ed ( or on ) re an a gh on to he al ct .
or le , ng in he xt ed on on ut ht of an ct at ht be lt to in om an ge .
us , he ty to dy th on he al ns of ho id at to om ay ve en nt to ad to ts of cm nd ts er to im .
ly , is ng is nt th na nd hr ( 23 ) .
in at ch , il - en ed he ic , ol of es gy ( vs ) , ly at in an ri - nt ne st te ne le nd ol ll rs .
na nd hr ed at en ed ly ll er ey ed a al us to ct ts or er ey ed al ts on a
as ed ve , ot rk es ss of he ed by ng er - on er om ns .
er , he ed to se al es ts he al on of he re .
he nt rk es ow
ng ly ng on ng ed ai
at on an be me ng rs , gh we st ll te ss of cm er om ns .
it is of st to te he on en cm nd rk on he al ts of ng ( e . g . , ab et al .
3; ee 23 , 23 ) .
as no st of he cs of ul al es is ed by ne , he ng cs re ly to be ed in st ts .
od er es :
re al nd ed as ed to a ed nd ed ( an et al .
23 ) ly , od es de ls at re st ed as es or ng ut ul ns ( ee 23 , p .
23 ) ul es te by ds or es or ss
ed by ng ps th se cs .
al on ts at en re re ic rs in he pm nd cm ns ( ee te ( 23 ) ) an in he re - ad on .
( rk ay is ng on re ly . ) so , he on er ch on ce es an ty or ss .
as ng on ay ll nt or me of he ts we ed , we nk at he al et ts er ty th es .
at is , es lp rs to te ir ng , nd by to nd in at on he ms at ey re ng ( ab et al .
us , in th ed by ng nd ll - ed es , it is ly at he al ts or ng nd ng me en he er is le to ak ut of ds ( 23 ) ol ry - go - nd by ng he ls ( ds ) in nt ce , er at ce is ly al or he on of al ls at dy nd nt al ce .
ne ht sk er he ts of ed by ng ed re re em - ry in he se at as en me re ed rs ey do ot ed it ce in ng .
so , is ed by ng al or ly he st te ts ? ly , st er rs ll ot ed it on in ng or he rt of le ts ed re ( gh at ht ot be ue en ng in a on - ve ge ) .
er , we ve at , if ng , he em es re re as en re ed to ad nd nd ts , ch as ce ts , at do ot ss on es .
at is , it is he ty to nd al ms in ir pe - es at , in rt , es ce ts ng .
a ly ed nt ( nd et al .
23 ) ed he ts of ng ts he ty to nd en ts le ng he vs le ed by hr ( e . g . , na nd hr 23 ) .
in nd et al .
( 23 ) th de ts rd a on ut vs nd en ey re en he ty to ly it .
in ne on , en ed vs by ng en ns or ow to et up ts in a ar in ( e . g . , es at ol ow ar a ll ls ) .
at is , he en ly ed he us by ng it , en uc - ns .
in er on , en ed vs by ng he me us , ut is me he it ns re ad to he en .
us , he wo ns re al in rd to he ic on , ut ly he st up ad ce in ng en al in ir ns .
in a er sk , ll en re ed to ly he vs le in a ew in ( e . g . , es at ol ow ar a ng ll ch ) .
in is er sk , ll en ly ed he us to et up ts by ng ts at ed ( er an ly ng ) he ts .
he nt es re ( a ) ow ll he ld as le to ow he ns by ng an ed nt ,
rg et al .
nd ( b ) ow ll he ld ed he gn of he nt .
he or ts om is er sk re at en ho ad ly ad he ts ed he en ho ad ly ed to he ts on th es .
he nd et al .
ta te he er of ed by ng or ur du - ly nt ms .
st , on is nt or rs ho re er an he ts ed in he nt ts .
nd , on is nt or en en ( nd , st ly ts ) ed to rn om ng er an ng to ad .
rd , on is nt or ng ow to ly an ct le .
ly , on rs to te er .
us , ch as th ll - ed al es , ed by ng an lp to te ct ms nd at es on nd er of he sm .
ts is al is ed on rk ed by he al ce on er ts no .
cs 23 to ur rg nd is - 23 to in hu .
ny ns , gs , nd ns or ns ed in is al re se of he or ( s ) nd do ot ly ct he ws of he al ce on .
we nk en en nd ly es or ir le lp in ta on , nd na c .
on - rg or on at er es an ed be ed as es .
