age ing is ted to ing rms of the orm
we uce an ial age del ich mod - els a ole nce or nce as a gle nit .
by oid - ing the ain ule , the del ats ach nce as a bag of res , ere res are ary ble rop - ies of the nce .
the new del is lly ore ent , and ore lly ted to ing bal ial ena , han the nal ial ( e . g .
mum opy ) els sed to ate .
ing the del is ard .
ing the del res sam - ing rom an ial ion .
we ibe the nge of ing nte rlo kov ain ( cmc ) and her ing ues to ral age , and dis - uss ing and tep - ize ion .
we hen ent a vel ure for ure ion , ich its dis - ies een the ing del and the ing cor - pus .
we ate our eas by ing and lyz - ing ive els in the ard ain , cor - ing cal and tic ion .
ion and ine
nal cal age els ate the rob -
it nto a uct of nal ies :
ity of a nce by ing the ain ule to ose
the ast ity of ork in cal lan - ! tly ith ibm t . j .
son rch ter , own
hts , ny 123
e - ail : son . ibm . com .
is the ory hen ict -
the ion of the ain ule is lly arm - ess nce it ses an act ity , not an ion .
his ice is lso ble rom a cal per - ive ( cal age ing rew out of the sta - cal ach to ech ion , ere the rch igm res ing the ity of ual rds ) .
ess , it is not ays ble .
rms ike
may not be the est way to ink out ing
bal nce ion uch as ity or tic nce is ard to ode in a con - nal ork .
ome cal ure was red in the red age del of ( 123 ) and in the nal ial del of ( 123 ) .
but uch ure had to be ted in rms of ial rse ees and eft - to - ght rse tes .
rly , del - ing of tic nce was ted in the con - nal ial del of ( 123 ) , but had to be re - ted to a ted ber of ise ord ela -
nal ces on the nce ( for ple , the ect of ing ces , or log vel ari - les ) are lly ard to ode tly .
her - ore , uch ces ust be red nto the pre - ion of ery ord in the ent nce , aus - ing all but tic ses in the ion to be
is lly ted by
' for ome all (
ion ) .
ven if uch a del is ved by ing ger nce ion , it ill kes any cit nce ons .
it is ear rom ing at age ata hat ese ons are ten tly lse , and hat ere are ant bal ies oth hin and oss ces .
as a ple ple of the ons of the ain ule ach , der one ect of a nce : its gth
the nce on its ity not be led tly .
an ) - ram sed del , the ect of the ber of rds in her , it is an cit nce of the ) - ram dic -
his is ter ted ing ech ion by a ord ion lty , the ess of ich ves hat gth is an ant ure .
ver , the ord ser - ion lty can nly del gth as a ric ibu - ion , ich oes not t ell ith cal ata , lly for ort ces .
as an ive to the nal nal for - ion , his per ses a new ial age del ich tly els the ity of an ire nce or nce .
the new del is lly sim - ler , and ore lly ted to ing ole - nce ena , han the nal ial els pro - sed ier .
by ing the ain ule , the del ats ach nce or nce as a bag of res , ere fea - res are ary ble ies of the nce .
the gle , sal ing ant not be com - ted tly , but his oes not ere ith ing ( one via ing ) or ith use .
ing the del is ion - lly ard .
ing the del nds lly on ent ing of ces rom an ial dis -
in hat ows , ion 123 ces the del and sts it ith the nal ial els pro - sed to ate .
ion 123 ses ing the del : it sts ral ues for ing rom ial dis - ons , ows how to ply hem to the ain of nat - ral age ces , and res eir ive fca - ies .
tep - ize ion and ing are lso sed ere .
ion 123 bes nts we med ith his del , ing cal and tic ion .
ion 123 zes the lts of the nts , and sec - ion 123 zes and ses our ing ort and fu - ure ons .
ous ons of his ork ere rst de - bed in ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ole nce ial els
a ole nce ial age del has the orm :
sal ion ant ich nds nly on the
s are the ers of the del , - s , and the
s are ary ble rop - ies , or res , of the nce .
the ior .
for ple , 123
ght be the orm dis -
is any rbi - ary ial ion , mes ely red to as
ion , or lse it ght be ved ( ing the ain ule )
ing the ole nce del
ure ose cts of the ata hey der ate or
nce ies , bal nce ies , as ell as ore lex ons sed on art - of - ech ing , ing , or her pes of tic ing .
rom a nal ion uch as an ) - ram .
are ted by the ler to cap - ble .
ese can ude nal ) - ams , ger - ity of a ven nce , one eed nly ate and the ues of the ous 123
, and use
ion 123
hus ing the del is ard and ( as ong as the res are not too lex ) lly ial .
use the res uld end on any art of the nce , hey can in ral nly be ted ter the ire nce is own .
ore , hen sed for ech ion , the del is not ble for the rst ass of the zer , and uld ead be sed to re - ore n - est
to use the ole nce ial del to ate the
ole nce mum opy els
the erm ial del ers to any del of the orm ( 123 ) .
a lar ype of uch a del is the so - led mum opy ( me ) del , ere the ers are sen so hat the ion ses ain ear
ese get ues are lly set to the ion of
( for ary res , his ply ans eir ncy in the pus ) .
hen , the int
nts .
lly , for ach 123 , its pec - is ned to a cic ue; * of ome ain - hat ure der the cal ion ?
the ial 123 ion ion ( mdi ) ion
123
ore , if the ure get es;
if the nts ( 123 ) are ent , ere sts a que ion hin the ial ily ( 123 ) ich ses hem .
ong all ( not ily ial ) ons to ons ( 123 ) , the ial ion is the one est to in the ack - ler nse , and is hus led the mum nce or mum orm , his mes ply the mum opy ( me ) so -
3in the ure , the erm mum opy or me is sed ely to fer to oth ons , i . e .
ess of her the ial ion
is orm .
we ill low his ice ere .
the cal ons ver ome ing pus ( as in ons ( 123 ) ) , the mdi or me ion is lso the max - mum ood ion of the ial ily .
for ore ion , see ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
in lar ,
the mdi or me ion can be und by an ive ure uch as the zed ive ing ( gis )
at ach era - ion , the thm ves the thm ( 123 ) .
gis rts ith 123 ues by ing the ion of ach ure der the nt* get lue , and ing the 123 nes the tep ize ( see ion 123 ) .
ing the =$s
res a ion ver all ble ces , a rly ead , we =$s wt by ing rom the on*
and ing the ple cta - .
ing rom an ial ion is a
non - ial ask .
ent ing is ial to ful ing .
ing ues ill be sed in ail in ion 123 .
as ill be own ter on in his per , ith ese ues it is ble to ain ole - nce me els ing ery rge ora and ery any res .
in ing a ole - nce mum opy del ,
as ned ier , the erm ial els ers to all els of the orm ( 123 ) , eas the erm me els ers to ial els ere the ers are set to sfy ion ( 123 ) .
ost of his per als ith me els .
for a ent ing ion for nen - ial els , see ion 123 .
son to nal me els
it is ive to are the ole - nce me del ith nal me els , ich ave een ble ess tly in age ing ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
the nal del lly has the orm :
one ust ute
ted ing ing for ach ord ion in the
ere the res are ons of a cic ord - ory
ore tly , - air , and so is the ne* is not a rue ant it nds on and hus ust be ing ata .
ely , for ach ing int
ite ere : ing a del hat tes ) - ram and
is the ary .
his nal den is
ong - nce ord ion res on ome 123 ion rds can ake eds of ays of ion ( 123 , p . 123 ) .
it is his eck hat has red the ead use of the me ork in age ing .
in son , in our new del the sal ion ant eed not be ted ( see ion 123 ) .
his not nly eds up ing , but it lso tly eds up ing the del in ons uch as ech ion .
in act , hen sed ith ple res , our del can be ied
del ing a ble ber of ers .
the ain cks of the nal me del are hus the ere nal eck of ing ( spe -
ith hly the ame unt of ion as an ) - ram lly of ing - ) , and the ies in del -
ing ole - nce ena .
the ole - nce me del ses oth of ese ues .
a nal ote of son : a ole - nce me del ing the ame res as a nal me del is in act not cal to the ter .
his is use the ing ure sed for nal me els cts the ion of the ure ons to ies ob - ved in the ing ata ( see ( 123 ) or ( 123 , ion 123 ) ) .
his ses the ion in an ing and mes pro - ate way .
for ple , der ord ger res of
for ome dsm
ted in the ing ata , his ill ect the ion of the nal me del .
in act , if hey are tly ted , ays co - ing in the ame nce , the re -
and lly der the two n$p 123 s ill ely be one alf of hat eir lue uld
ave een if nly one of the res ere sed .
his is ben - ial to the del , nce it res ons hat are ely to cur in new ata .
ver , a ole - nce me del ing the ame res ill not use the cor - , ess it is tly ted to do so via a ate ure .
his is use the ain - ing ata is not lly sed in ole - nce me ing , ept lly to ive the res get ues .
ion and ity
ust as it is ble to ate tly ure pec - ons for ole - nce els , it is lly ble
ely , his is not ary for ain -
ing : ing ( and nce ion ion ) can be , as ill be own in ion 123
ing the del as art of a ier ( e . g . , a ech cog - her , use the ive ing of the ent ses is not ged by a
to ute the ion ant - one out ing - zer ) oes not ire dge of -
gle , sal ant .
ice hat his is not the ase for nal ial els .
ess , at mes it may be ble to ate , aps in der to ute ity .
ith the ole -
nce del his can be one as ows .
hus z can be ted to any red acy rom a
be the ber of ces and rds in it , ely
v be the zed mod - ion ade to the ial el* : 123
by the ion int we ave :
rom ich we get : - 123 of ces awn om* 123 .
ten , bly rge lez is sed on an ) - ram .
a bly ent ing que for ) - ams is bed ter .
to ate ion in per - ord ity ( ( n ( he* : 123 ine , zd| be a est set , and let ) dy ~ | and ) |
z ~ | i tic ans
ere the tic ean is ken ith ect to* : 123 and the ric ean ith ect zd| .
123 , i . e .
if the est set is lso led rom the ine
ion , it ows rom the law of ity of ver - ges hat the new ity ill ays be her .
his , ver , is ate use any ion to an ini - ial ity ion ill ign a wer ood ( and nce her ity ) to ata ted by hat dis -
ing in the ion of z , the ted ity
it ows hen hat the ity ion tio is :
ive ing
til now we sed ily mum opy or mum ood ing .
ver , ole - nce ial els can lso be ned to tly ize the ror ate in an ion uch as ech ion .
his is own as mum ion ror ( mce ) ain - ing , or ive ing .
the log - ood of a
res is ven
the ast erm is a ted sum , ich can be tly ( eit nly lly ) zed for mce ing a tic rid rch uch as lls thm , ich hes the
ole - nce ial del ith (
ace ned by 123 s .
in act , the ond erm ( orq
can lso be ned a ght , and res not ted to age ing can be ded to the mix as ell , for int ion .
his is a ion of the age ght and ord ion lty ers tly sed in ech ion .
for an mpt in his ion ,
nal ole - nce els
so far we ave sed non - nal els of the
re - uce the nal orm of the ial del , fer to the nce ory , ely the nce of ces rom the gin - ing of the ent or ion up to ( but not lud - ing ) the ent nce .
the del hen mes :
in der to del oss - nce cts , one can eit ith ome ons
ugh the ion ant is no ger uni - sal , it is ill not ded for n - est ing of a ech ers put .
his is use ing is lly one one nce at a ime , ith all ing ses ing the ame nce ory .
we ill not sue els of his ype any her in his per , ept to ote hat hey can be sed to oit ion ide ion , uch as ics and her log
mum opy del ing
nce cit ion ver all ces we ill ate the ns<
his ion , we ibe ral cal ues for ing rom ial ons , and ate eir acy for ing ral age ces .
t by ing
bbs ing ( 123 ) is a ell own que for ing rom ial ons .
it was sed in ( 123 ) to ple rom the ion of ter ngs .
we ill now ibe how to use it to ate ole ces rom
ing ugh all ord ons in ome der ) .
to low ons nto ces of any gth , we do
ose a ord at dom ing to the ibu -
an zed int ial ion , hen ent ive ods ich are ore ent in his ain .
ent by an ary ord , ich ely ens the nce by one ord .
nce .
his tes a gle tep in the dom alk in the ing kov eld .
to ate a gle nce om*
, art rom any ary nce , and ate as ows : 123
ose a ord ion ( her mly or by cy - \ be the nce ced by ing the ord in nce ith the ord
in the rya
ace hat ord in ion in the
the end - of - nce ion is lso red for hen the ast ord ion in the nce is ked , rom the bbs on* raw the ial nce rom a ble tri - 123 .
his nds to uce the ary num - for an ial nce use the nal ( or ome in - at ach ion , der nly a set of the vo -
ate ) nce rom a ous dom alk .
his ain nds to uce the ary ber of ons .
ver , the ing nce may be hat ted ith the ous 123
ing ple ces rom a bbs ion as bed ove is ite low .
to eed ngs up , the ing ons are ful :
the end - of - nce bol < / s> is lso red .
if sen , his ely ens the nce by
ter ugh ons of the ove ure , the re - ing nce is eed to be an sed ple
3it is not lly own how any ons are ded to rac - lly tee sed les .
in our nts we sed ral
ion , uch as a ram sed on the ing ata ,
ary for ent .
any set can be sen
ber of ons per tep .
his is own as the ong ain ach .
ere is an ing and ted ate in the nal ics ity een ong ain and ort ain ers .
as ong as the ing kov ain ins er - dic .
his des off the nal ost per it - ion nst the ing ate of the kov ain ( hat is , the ate at ich the dom alk ges to the ing ium ion ) .
nce is ted ith ity
his new
cts the ing cy; in the nts ted in his per , we sed a ram ion .
is ned .
ter all ord ons ave een ned , the ing nce is ded to the ple , and his ess is ted . 123 the ion
ven ith ese nts , bbs ing is not the ost ent for his ain , as the ity of a eat any ces ust be ted to ate ach ple .
lis ing ( 123 ) , her kov ain nte rlo que , ars ore ate for his ion .
an ial nce is sen as ore .
for ach is sed rom a in hat po -
as in bbs ing , ing the lis lgo - thm to ces of ble - gth res are .
in one ion , we pad ach nce ith end - of - nce ens
sen ord ion , a new ord to ace the nal ord ion , ing in a sed new nce
ise , the nal ord sed to ate new ord tes for ach ion < / s> up to a xed gth .
a nce mes ter if 123 sed to ate new nce tes ust be lar to the on*
we are ing to in nce ing , a ple
ted ing to ome nce 123 rly ust be ose to*
ect the ias ced by ing 123
, ach ple
we ted ese ods ( ept bbs
in ing lis ing , ead of ing a gle ord at a ime it is ble to ace ger its .
in lar , in nce ing we der lac - ing the ole nce in ach ion .
for ncy , the
the ing ure is ill ect if the ent nce is ded to the ple ter ach ord ion is ed; ver , his ess mes ess ell - ned hen we der ble - gth ces .
the ast non - < / s> ken is ged to < / s> , ger if the rst < / s> ken is ged to ing lse .
for ent ing .
to mes , so hat
ing , ich ved too low ) on ome of the els to
ich ing hod is est nds on the ure of
ble 123 : ean and ard ion ( of ean ) of ure ion tes for nce - gth res for ree ing hms ver ten uns
cic ext , til the end - of - nce bol is gen -
rom the ing - of - nce bol , and ely gen -
be bed in ion 123
ese els loy a ram
as the ial on*
( ing ces rom a ) - ram del can be one ite tly : one rts tes a gle ord ing to the ) - ram del and the ted .
ing a gle ord rom an ) - ram del eps .
ile his ion is not riv - ial ion . ) ore , 123
ial , it is far ore ent han ing tly rom an to be a tri - ram del for nce and nce ing is ery ive .
to ure the ess of the ent ing hms , we did the ing .
ing an xpo - ial del ith a ine ram ned on 123 ion rds of ard ext ( ( 123 ) ) and a ary of ome 123 , 123 rds , for ach of the ing ods we gen - ted ten ent les of 123 , 123 ces .
we ted the ons of a set of res on ach sam - ple , and ted the cal nce in the ate of ese ons ver the ten les .
ore ent ing hms uld eld wer ces .
in our nts , we und hat nce sam - ing and nce ing oth ded ent per - nce , ile ord - sed lis ing med lly rse .
as an ple , we ted cta - ons for nce - gth res of the orm
ver ten les of ize 123 , 123
in ble 123 , we lay the ans and ard ons of the ten ion tes for ach of the ve nce - gth res der ree ing hms .
the ncy of nce and nce sam - ing nds on the nce een the ing dis -
nce the nce mes too rge , lis ing , and the re -
and the red on*
, hat nce ill row ith ach ing ion .
can be sed for one ion , say ion (
is bly a ter del han the ial
ing ple ned .
ent ons can re - use hat ple via nce or nce ing ith
ote hat , ven if ing ere to top at 123 , nce it has ved bly ( by our ump -
ing the ues we uss ove , ing a ole - nce me del is ble ven ith rge ora and any res .
and yet , ing ime is not ble .
ome eas for ing the nal den ich we ave not yet red ude :
ion ) rds ing the ure nts .
the rst few ons ( we nly eed to now the di - ion and ugh ude of the ion to the
use nly ugh ion ( i . e .
all ple ize ) in 123 s ) ; ase ple ize hen ing ver - ine the ple ize lly , sed on the add res lly ( his has ady ven it -
elf ive at ast lly , as ted in sec -
ber of mes ach ure was ved so far .
tep ize
in gis , the tep ize for ure ate is ely ted to the ber of ive res .
as ces lly ave any res , his may ult in ery low nce .
ved ive ing ( iis ) ( 123 ) ses a ger ive tep ize han gis , but res a eat eal ore eep -
ite , we uld ake
ver , hen ure ons are ear eir get lue , iis can be ely ted ith ion ( 123 ) is ken to be a ted age of the ure
nly ver the ces in the ple sed to ate ex - ons .
his que ted in nce in all of
sum ver all es; i . e . , if the set of ces ere
in our ion , we edl rom ion ( 123 ) we can see hat <dc uce a ian ior 123
to oth our del , we use the zzy mum opy hod rst bed by ( 123 ) : we
ues and rch for the
mum a ior del ead of the mum ike - ood del .
his has the ect of ing ion ( 123 )
for ome ble nce ter
que , we und hat ver - ing ( ing ) was ver a lem .
for a led sis of his and her ing ues for mum opy els , see ( 123 ) .
ith his ech -
ure ets and nts
in his ion we ibe ral nts ith the new del , ing ous ure ets and ing ech -
ues .
we art ith the ple ion of ) - ams
ing bbs ing , eed ith ger nce and ass sed cal ons ing nce ing , and end ith tic rse - sed res .
for ent ork ing tic res , see ( 123 ) .
to est the ity of bbs ing and lly val - ate our ach , we ilt a ole - nce me del ing a all ( 23k ord ) ing set of ast ews to be orm , and sed uni -
ram , ram and ram res of the orm
( 123 ) 123
we et* : 123
# of mes ) - ram urs ino
the res ere not ced all at the ame ime .
in - ead , the ram res ere ced rst , and the del was wed to rge .
ext the ram res ere ced , and the del ain wed to rge .
lly the ram res ere ced .
his ted in ter nce han in the ous ion of all ure pes .
ing was one by bbs ing
low we ide ple ces ted by bbs ing rom ous ges of the ing ure .
ta - ble 123 sts ple ces ted by the ial del ,
ore any ing ook ace .
nce the 123 s ere all
set to ero , his is the orm del .
les 123 ugh 123 ist ple ces ted by the ged del af - ter the ion of ram , ram and ram res , ely .
it can be een rom the ple ces hat the del eed lly ted the ion ded by the ive res .
the del bed ove tes nly ven - nal res ich are asy to ate in a ple
out his per we ave een ing to the nit of ing as a nce .
but of rse , our hod can be sed to del any ord nce or nce , her or not it is ent ith tic ies .
lly , lly ced res may or may not be ble to non - ces .
nal age ode .
his was one for tra - ive ses nly .
the del is are of the ure or ity of the res .
ary res can be com - ted ith lly no nge in the del ure or
<s> ugh are reg ing if o .
wer ver < / s> <s> ath uve oth hem ght ack ell oth < / s> <s> nth ats ews any uve ote uch ean < / s> <s> a .
nor eve me reg ook day n
ble 123 : ces ted by bbs ing rom an
ero , his is the orm del .
ial ( ned ) del .
nce 123 s ere zed to
<s> ell ery ont a are not ive the < / s> <s> i ght of not so les is one < / s> <s> i are our his now ont out of < / s> <s> c .
go are to a it had so < / s> <s> off the ore ust int ant ade ell < / s>
ble 123 : ces ted by bbs ing rom a ole - nce me del ned on ram res
<s> do you ant to ont c .
was you < / s> <s> the i do you ave a a us < / s> <s> but a los les ask c .
ews are < / s> <s> we ill you ave to be nda and < / s> <s> the way is the do you ink on < / s>
ble 123 : ing ram res .
as we ned ier , bbs ing ned out to be the ast ent of all ing ues we sid - red .
as we ill how ext , uch ger ora and any ore res can be bly ned ith the ore ent
in our ext ent we sed a uch ger pus and a her set of res .
our ing ata ted of 123 , 123 , 123 rds ( rly 123 , 123 ces ) of ard ext ( swb ) ( 123 ) .
rst , we ted a nal ram del on his ata ing a ion of ser - ney ing ( 123 ) ,
zed ) - ams and ure ion and sed it as our ial 123 .
we hen em - yed res hat ned the ncy of ord ) - ams ( up to ) 123 ) , nce - two ( i . e .
ing one ord ) ord ) - ams ( up to ) 123 ) ( 123 ) , and ass ) - ams ( up to ) 123 ) ( 123 ) .
we ned our ary ( of ome 123 , 123
rds ) nto 123 , 123 , and 123 ses ing the ord ass - ing thm of ( 123 ) on our ing ata .
<s> hat do you ave to ive los les < / s> <s> a .
ess ews kyo < / s> <s> be of ays im not at his it < / s> <s> ill man een ell i ink the ost < / s> <s> do you ave to be in the way < / s>
ble 123 : ing ram res .
ble 123 : top - 123 wer and age ank of est sis ing ing ure ets .
a ass ram , and tes hat the ram del ver - tes rds rom his ass .
on her ion , the ass ned out to ain a rge ion of the est rds .
his tes hat aps the ing of the tri - ram del uld be ved .
ing to you now to you now how out you now ind of a
to ect cic res we sed the ing pro - ure .
rst , we ted an ial pus by ing
) - ams ith est ncy ( ing to tic ) een ing pus and ram - ted pus of ame ze; ) - ams ith ken are nce -
ion nts a ass ose two ost ent ers are rom our ial ram on* .
his ram ach ) - ram , we red its unt in the ram pus tly ( ing a ure to our del . 123 we ied lds on the 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 and 123 , 123 ) - ram res , re - ) - ams ith ero nts ere red to in ble 123 , we lay the ) - ams ith the est res .
the ity of ese ) - ams lve a 123 - ram
or 123 - ram hat urs ero mes in the ing pus and urs any mes in the ram pus .
ese are ear les of ger - nce ies hat are not mod - led ell ith a ram del .
ver , the ast ure is
to hat in the ing pus .
if ese two nts red est ) , we ded the ing
ave 123 nts in his sis .
tic of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , and 123 , ing in ely
pus was of the ame ize as the ing pus
the dea of ing a int hat is ost ted by the ent del was rst sed by ert cer , who led it ing own .
we red the act of ese res by ing
ach of our ure ets for 123 ons of ive ng; ach ete ing run ook ess han ree urs on a 123 mhz ium pro ter .
for ach ure set , we ned the ing del to 123
we sed nce ing to ate ons .
ver , ead of ing an ely new ple for ach ion , we ted a gle pus rom our ial ram del , and re - ted his pus for ach ion ing nce ing .
( his que may ult in lly ent nts for are res , but nce can ill be red by
ter ing 123 ing the tep zel ith ach ion . ) we ned - est sts ( e ll ) ich ere gen -
est set of 123 , 123 rds .
the am* ved as a ase -
for ach del , we ted oth the top - 123 ord er - ror ate and the age ank of the ast ful sis .
ese res ere ted rst by ing the new age res ith the ing tic res , and ain by ing the age res nly .
lts for the ree est ure ets are zed in ble 123 ( for the ler ure ets ent was ler ill ) .
ile the cic res we ted ere ade nly a all dif - nce in n - est ing , hey rve to ate the eme ity of our del : any ble rty of the nce ich is tly not ely led can ( and uld ) be ded nto the del .
ted by the nus tem ( 123 ) on a ard / ome
tic res
in the ast set of nts , we sed res sed on ble - gth tic ies to ove on an ini - ial ram del in the ard ain .
our ain - ing set was the ame ard pus sed in sec -
due to the ten cal ure of ard age ( mal , ous one ons ) , we ose to use a low ser hat , ven an nce , ces nly a at nce of tic nts .
the tic res ere hen ned in rms of ese con -
the low ard ser
the low ard ser ( 123 ) was ned to rse ous , nal ech in ted ins .
it is ery ust and ast for uch ces .
rst , a ies of ing eps are ied out .
ese ude nat - ing ord ons , ing ons , and ing ies .
ext , the ser gns a art - of - ech tag to ach ord .
for ple , the put nce
kay i uh you now i ink it ght be ect
ill be sed nto
i / nnp ink / vbp it / rpa ght / aux be / vb cor -
as the ext tep , the ser aks the sed and ged nce nto one or ore lex ses , ich are ses ing an ted bal orm and a ect .
his ies the put and kes ing ore ust .
in our ple ove , the ser ill ate two lex
lex 123 : i / nnp ink / vbp lex 123 : it / rpa ght / aux be / vb ect / jj
lly , ith a set of ten mar les , the ser ses ach lex use nto nts .
the ing is low nce it snt ate ded con - ts; i . e . , the rse ree is at .
in the ple , lex 123 has two nts :
( np ) ( ( np ead ) i / nnp ) ( vb ) ( ( vp ead ) ink / vbp )
and lex 123 has ree nts :
( np ) ( ( np ead ) it / rpa ) ( vb ) ( ght / aux ( vp ead ) be / vb ) ( adj ) ( ect / jj )
the ser mes ves a few ion rds ( e . g .
to , of , in ) sed in the put .
for the ose of fea - ure ion , we ded ach of ese ion rds as a ent .
ted his way , ere are a tal of 123
ure pes
as ned ove , the low ser aks an put sen - nce nto one or ore lex ses , ich are hen fur - her ken own nto at ces of nts .
we de - ned ree pes of res sed ely on the ent es; i . e . , we red the ies of rds hin the con -
ent nce res : for any ent
res les nal ass ram res , ex - ept hat hey ond to a ble ber of rds .
nce of i ugh is np vb ile hat of i see a ird is np vb np .
ent ram res : for any red con -
res is a ion of ent nce fea - res , nce it snt ire the ion and ber of nts to tch tly .
as an ple , oth
nce and lex use , 123
123 if and nly if the ent nce of lex use ex - 123
for nce , 123 np vb i ink 123 np vb adj it ght be ect l , and so rth .
123 np vb it ght be ect 123
ent set res : for any set of nts ,
123 if and nly if the ent set of nce 123
his set of 123 np , vb i ugh 123 np , vb i see a ird + , ugh the ent
123 if and nly if nce ins hat ous nce at ast
his set of fea -
the ame ize as the ing pus , by ing om* : 123 of the ial el* , and hat ing uch a ure lex ses of the ial pus .
let be and ( be the hat in the ial pus
we ran oth ora ugh the low ser and ted the ces of ach ate ure .
if the ber of mes a ure was ive in the ing pus red sig - tly rom hat in the ial pus , the ure was red ant and was ted nto the del .
our ing was hat the nce is due to a ncy
ill x hat ncy .
we med hat our res cur tly , and are ore lly ted .
ore ely , we had two ent ets of lli als .
one is the set of lex ses of the ing pus .
the her is the
ure ion
we wed the ure bed in ion 123 to nd ful res .
we ted an ial pus , hly
the ber of mes a ure urs in the ing pus
rue nce ies ted ith ach pus .
( see for ple ( 123 , age 123 ) ) .
we ted nto our
we ted the ses the zed ood tio est , we ted
123 was ted .
del ose res ose
= ' = had the ost ant led ) .
the 123 ard ore 123 in the est , ith 123 ces in the swb pus and 123 in the ial pus
ing is the 123 123 , and 123 , 123
one may ect hat his is ere
ent nce res : ere ere 123 , 123 ndi - ate res of his ype hat red at ast nce in the two ora .
of ose , 123 , 123 how a ant nce een the two ora at a 23% nce vel ( two -
the ial ram del kes up ome ely ses .
ing at the 123 lex ses rms his :
f , ith
so i ave ver lly ing and hey ght cal hat we ave ood hat you uld ast but i uld ure and you can ent
rly , the 123 ore - 123 , 123 and 123
his ure nds for a tly
ble lex use orm hat has ver een ner - ted in the ial pus , bly use it ins a ong - nce nce .
eed , the ing sim - lex ses in swb are :
hat rea do you ork in hat rea do you ive in hat ome do you ive in hat ise do you get ved in
ore , 123 , 123
ent set res : ese res are ore gen - ral han ent nce res and hus ere are wer of hem .
a tal of 123 , 123 ate ent set res red in her pus , ile 123 wed a sig - ant nce .
the one ith the ost ant
, ith 123 and 123
or a lly and a rly if a ver
ike ent nce res , ere ere ome con - ent set res hat red nly in the ial cor - - ore of 123 ith
for ple , 123 123 and 123 :
pus , uch 123 ith z - ore 123 , 123 ant .
the 123 123 and 123 is her ood ple of the ies
ent ram res : 123 , 123 ate res of his ype red in the ora , of ich 123 , 123 ere
ere ere lso res hat nly red in the swb
but he ver ome we the gym ven ome it lly ome lly bad elf mes ome on nel 123
of the ial ram del :
ity and ord ror ate
ity der the new mum opy del was es -
we ted the 123 ent nce res , 123 ent set res , and 123 ent tri - ram res nto a ole - nce mum opy lan - age del , and ned its ers ith the gis lgo - thm .
the ine ity of a 123 , 123 - ord swb est
set ted der the ial 123 was 123 .
the ted as 123 123 , a ive ent of nly 23% .
ext , we ted ech ion ord ror ate by n - est ist ing .
a 123 - est ist ith 123 , 123 rds was sed .
the wer was 23% ith the ial del and 23% ith all of the tic res ded , a ere 23%
in ing to and the ing lts of the ast ion , we zed the ely ect of res on the - nal del .
the per und on ent rom a gle is the ack ler nce een
the rue ion 123 ( as ted by the cal dis - ( the ion 123 ing
to the ent del ) ( 123 , p .
the ect of ple fea - res is not ily ive ( in act , it uld be pra - or sub - ive ) .
ess , the sum of the ual ef - cts may ill ive ome ion of the ely ned
ect .
for the tic res we sed , we ted :
is tly ger .
the ond erm on the ght - and ide is lly ble .
the two ors ing his
ich tes nto an ted ity ion of , ere 123 is the age ber of rds in a nce ) .
the ial act of ese res is ap -
tly ery ted .
we ore eed to eek 123
) and the ber are hus the nce of the ure ( ? log ncy een the uth and the del ( woq nse to a man der ? is uch a ure ( ere ? l ) .
it is , of rse , ai - ard to ute
ver , ven a ugh ion of it may be ite use - ful .
sed on his sis , we ave tly sed our ion on ing a ler ber of ent ( and ely ore lex ) res , sed on the ion of sen - nce nce ( ( 123 ) ) .
in the res we sed , the ter was ite rge , but the mer was ery all .
hus , we eed to ate on ore mon res .
an eal ure uld cur tly ugh , yet ex - bit a ant ncy .
oes the nce ake
ent res are lso lly ble .
use the ing eck in ole - nce me mod - els is in ing ure ons via ing , the nal ost is ned tly by how are the res are and how ely we ant to del hem .
the ore ent the res , the ess the ion .
ote hat nal ost of ing nds uch ess on the ary , the unt of ing ata , or the num - ber of res .
ary and ion
we ted an ach to ing ary uis - tic ion nto a cal del of ral age .
we bed ent hms for ing ole - nce me els , ing ons to the ons of ing , tep ize and ing .
we ted our ach in two ins , ing cal and tic fea - res .
we lso ced a ure for ure ion ich eks and its ies een an ing del and the ing pus .
ole - nce me els are ore ent han con - nal me els , and can lly ess nce - vel ena .
it is our ope hat ese nts
ill eak the me ity ier ich rth hin - red ion and ion of ple dge ces .
his ill lly pen the tes to ion , by any ers , ith ied dge ces ich hey eve to rry ant ion .
uch ces
ber ent , ity , her ser - ied
ion of rbs and ses in the nce ous cts of ity ( son ent , log vel ion dic and her ime ted ion ( ing
nce all dge ces are ted in a uni - orm way , a age ler can cus on ich per - ies of age to del as sed to how to del hem .
ion can hus be ted to ure ion .
eed , we ave ted ing on an ive ure ion ogy , ing it as a tic ion lem ( 123 , 123 ) .
ken her , we ope hat ese rts ill elp pen the oor to ing age ack nto age
ate , ses , .
we are ful to eev pur , red nek and ash yan for ful ons ing the rly ges of his rk; to rry man for uch ice on ing es; to aus ner for use of his er; and to the ers for any ful ons and
