tcp put ion is an ant ity in ide rea lay and lti - med rks ere ple ths may ist een ata ces and ers .
in his per we ibe a new , ght hod for tcp put ion hat can ner - ate ate sts for a oad nge of le zes and ath ndi - ons .
our hod is sed on ort tor ion ing hat ses a ion of ior le ers and nts of ple ath ies .
we ate and ate the ies of our put tor in an ive set of lab - sed per - nts ere und uth can be hed for ath ies ing hly ate ive nts .
we ort the for - nce for our hod in the eal ase of ing our ive ath rty nts ver a nge of est ons .
our lts how hat for ulk ers in avy afc , tcp ugh - put is ted hin 23% of the ual lue 23% of the ime , ing rly a 123 - old ent in acy ver ior in the ame lab ent , we ess our hod ing ess ate ive obe nts of ath ies , and how hat ons can be ade hin 23% of the ual lue rly 23% of the ime ver a nge of le zes and afc ons .
his ult nts ely a 23% ent ver ory - sed ods ith a uch wer act on end - to - end ths .
lly , we ent our tor in a ool led erf and est it in nts ted on ide rea ths .
the lts ate hat erf cts tcp ugh - put ely ver a ety of ths .
ies and ect ors : c . 123 ( nce of sys - ems ) : ent ues ral rms : ent rds : tcp put ion , ive nts , ma - ine ing , ort tor ion
the ity of ple ths een ces and ers led by ent ion , lti - ing , and lay or vir -
ion to ake tal or ard ies of all or art of his ork for nal or oom use is ted out fee ded hat ies are not ade or ted for rot or ial age and hat ies ear his ice and the ull ion on the rst age .
to opy ise , to ish , to ost on ers or to ute to sts , res ior cic ion and / or a fee .
123 , une 123 , 123 , san ego , nia , usa .
ght 123 acm 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 - 123 / 123 / 123 . . . 123 .
ual rks sts the eed for the ity to ect the est ath for a lar ata fer .
a mon ing int for his lem is to ene est in rms of the put hat can be ved ver a lar ath een two end sts for a ven zed tcp fer .
in his ase , the tal nge is to lop a que hat des an ate tcp put ore - ast for ary and bly hly mic end - to - end ths .
ere are ral ies in ing ate tcp ugh - put ons .
ior ork on the lem has ely len nto ose hat ate ula - sed hes and ose hat ate ory - sed hes .
ula - sed ods , as the ame sts , ict put ing mat - cal ons hat ate a tcp ers ior to ath and end ost ies uch as rtt , ket oss ate , and ive dow ize .
in his ase , ent ent ols can be sed to her the put ata hat is hen ged nto the ula to ate a pre - ion .
ver , ell - own ork ics and ted in - ion ess ate the sic ask of ing ely and ate ath ion , and the ver ing set of tcp ons ans hat a ing set of ula - sed els ust be ned .
ory - sed tcp put ion ods are cep - lly ard .
hey lly use ome ind of ard ime ies ing sed on put nts ved rom ior le ers , red her ely ( e . g . , by ing a ink ) or ely ( e . g . , by lly ing a le ) .
in ent ork , he et al .
how gly hat ory - sed ods are lly ore ate han ula - sed ods .
ver , the ors lly ine the ons der ich ory - sed ion can be ive ( 123 ) .
lso , ory - sed hes bed to ate ain ely ate and lly avy ght ses sed on ulk fer put ion .
our oal is to lop an ate , ght ool for ing end - to - end tcp put for ary le zes .
we ate the sis hat the acy of ory - sed ors can be ved and eir act on a ath ced by ing the pre - tor ith dic nts of ple ath ies .
the ons sed in his per ude : 123 ) ich ath per - ies or ion of ath ies ase the acy of tcp put ion the ost ? and 123 ) hat is a mum set of le zes red to ate ory - sed put ors for ary le zes ? nal als for our tcp put ion ool are : 123 ) to ake it ust to vel fts ( i . e . , hen ath ies nge tly ) ich he et al .
how to be a nge in ory - sed ors , and 123 ) to ude a con - nce lue ith nsa ric ith tle ent in ior ory - sed put ors .
the cal ork for the udy hat we ort in his pa - per is sed on the use of ort tor ion ( svr ) , a pow - ful ine ing que hat has own ood cal nce in any ins .
svr has ral ive per - ies hat ake it ell ted for our udy : 123 ) it can ept ple uts ( i . e . , ate res ) and ill use all of ese to gen - ate the put ion , ich is a ent for our ap - ach .
123 ) svr oes not mit to any lar ric orm , ike ula - sed hes .
ead , svr els are ble sed on eir use of so - led non - ear els .
his ive wer is an ant son for the ial for ore ate pre - ons han ula - sed ods .
123 ) svr is lly ent , ich kes it ive for ion in a ool hat can be yed and sed in the ide rea .
for our ion , we end the sic svr tor ith a nce val tor sed on an ion hat ion ors are lly ted , an ion hat we est in our ory nts .
ima - ion of nce als is cal for on - ine ion , nce ing can be red if red put lls ide a nce val ted ugh ous nts .
we gin by ing ory - sed nts to ate the hip een tcp put and nts of ath ies ing ble dth ( ab ) , ing ays ( q ) , and ket oss ( l ) .
the lab ent les us to her hly ate ive nts of put and all ath ies , and lop and est our svr - sed tor ver a nge of tic afc ons .
our ial nts fo - cus on ulk ers and are und uth nts of put of get tcp ows ( i . e . , ual put ) ith pre - ted tcp put ues ted by ple ces of our svr - sed ool ned ith ent ons of ath ies .
we are the ual and ted put ing the ive ion ror ( e ) ric bed in ( 123 ) .
our re - lts how hat put ons can be ved by as uch as a tor of 123 hen ing ath ies in the svr - sed ool sus a ory - sed tor .
for ple , our lts how hat the svr - sed ons are hin 23% of ual 23% of the ime for ulk ers der avy afc ons ( 23% av - age ion on the eck ink ) .
gly , we nd hat the ath ies hat ide the ost ent to the svr - sed tor are q and l ely , and hat ing ab des ost no ent to the tor .
ard our oal of ing a ust ool hat can be sed in the ide rea , we and the ore svr - sed ool in ree ays .
rst , the ial sts ere sed ely on ive afc ure - nts , ich are ely to be ely ble in the net .
to ess his , we ted our svr - sed ach ing ure - nts of q and l ded by the ing ool ( 123 ) .
the duc - ion in acy of ive sus ive nts of q and l ted in a ing ion in acy of svr - sed put ons for ulk ers der avy afc con - ons on the der of out ill a ant ent on ory - ase tes .
it is lso ant to ote hat ugh - put ion sed on ing lus ght ive ure - nts lts in a lly wer ork obe oad han ior ory - sed ods ing ong - ved tcp ers and avy - ght obe - sed tes of ble dth uch as de - bed in ( 123 ) .
we ify his nce in ion 123
ond , we ted ith ing ata in der to ble ons ver a nge of le zes ead of nly ulk ers ich is the cus of ior ork .
we und hat a ing set of nly ree
le zes lts in ate put ons for a ide nge of le zes , ich hts her gth of our svr - sed ach .
ird , he et al .
wed hat vel fts in ath con - ons ose ies for put ion ( 123 ) , ing the eed for ity .
to ish his , we ted the sic svr tor ith a nce val tor as a ism for ing a ing ess .
we how in ion 123 hat our que is ble to apt to vel fts kly and to ain igh acy on ths ere vel fts cur .
his ion of ies was ent for us to lop an ive obe ool for tcp put ion we all ath - erf 123 hat we yed and ted in the ide rea .
ugh a se - ies of nts ver six end - to - end ths in the ron bed ( 123 ) ths , we und hat in the est ase erf des tcp ugh - put tes hin 23% of ual lue 23% of the ime , and in the rst ase des tes hin 23% of ual 23% of the ime .
we eve hat nts in ols for ing ath rty ion ill ead to ing nts in put ion acy .
we lan to ate ese ssi - ies in ure ork .
ted ork
nce the nal ork by son and els hed the sic sms for ern tcp ons ( 123 ) , it has een ell own hat any ors ect tcp put .
in gen - ral , ese ude the tcp ion , the ing ork ure , and the ics of the afc ing the nks on the ath een two sts .
eps ard ing tcp ior ave een ken in a ber of ies ing ( 123 , 123 ) ich vel - ped tic els for tcp sed on ket oss ris - ics .
a ies of ies lop gly led cal ons for tcp put sed on ing the ils of the tcp ion rol thm and nts of ath ies ( 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
ile our tor lso ies on mea - ent of ath ies , the svr - sed ach is ely hed rom ior ula - sed els .
a rge ber of cal ies of tcp le fer and put ior ave ded ble ght nto tcp per - nce .
son ted one of the ost ive tud - ies of tcp ior ( 123 , 123 ) .
ile hat ork sed a ora of ues , it ded ome of the rst cal ata on the ter - ics of ket lay , ing , and oss hin tcp le ers .
ord and las ion of cal ath sis to tcp le ers des an ven ore led ive on how lay , ing , and oss ate to tcp nce ( 123 ) .
in ( 123 ) , bal - nan et al .
ied put rom the ive of a rge web ver and wed how it ied ing on end - ost and ime of day ics .
lly , led ies of put ity ver ime and ons een put and ow ize can be und in ( 123 , 123 ) , ely .
ese ies orm our ork in rms of the sic ics of put hat ust be red hen ing our tor .
ast ies of ory - sed ods for tcp put pre - ion are sed on the use of ard ime ies ing ods .
dia et al .
are ral ent ple ore - ing ods to ate tcp put for ers of rge les and nd lar nce oss ors ( 123 ) .
a ell - own tem for put ion is the ork her ice ( 123 ) .
hat tem kes ulk fer sts by mpt -
ing to ate nts of ior rge tcp le ers ith dic all ( 3kb ) tcp le ers ( red to as dth bes ) .
the ats tem for tcp put ion is bed in ( 123 ) .
hat tem kes put tes sed on an lly ted ing age of ger ize and - dth bes ( 3mb tal ) .
lar to our ork , lu et al .
und hat ion ors lly wed a mal ion .
as ned ier , he et al .
ely ied ory - sed pre - ors ing ree ent ime ies sts ( 123 ) .
our svr - sed hod des ion rom ior ers for ing , but ise nly res nts rom ght bes and is zed for all les zes , not ust ulk ers .
any ues ave een ped to ure ath rop - ies ( see das ent ary age for les ( 123 ) ) .
ior ork on ath rty ent cts our ion of ght obe ols to ect ata for our tor .
ent ies ave sed on ing ble dth on a ath .
ab is ned lly as the mum sed ity on an end - to - end ath , ich is a lly ing rty ith ect to put ion .
a ber of ies ave de - bed ues for ing ab ing ( 123 , 123 , 123 ) .
we ate the ity of ab ent as ell as her ath ies to nce tcp put ons .
lly , ine ing ues ave not een ely ap - ied to ork ent .
one ble ion is in ork ion ion ( e . g . , ( 123 ) ) .
the nly her ion of sup - ort tor ion hat we now of is to the lem of ing ip ess ure to ict und rip ime ncy ( 123 ) .
a ate ine
the ain sis of his ork is hat ory - sed tcp ugh -
put ion can be ved by ing nts of end - to - end ath ies .
the ask of put ion can be ted as a ion lem , i . e . , ing a eal - ued ber sed on ple eal - ued put res .
ach le fer is ted by a ure tor x rd of ion d .
ach ion is an ved ure , e . g . , the le ize , mal nts of ath ies uch as ing lay , oss , ail - ble dth , etc .
ven x , we ant to ict the put y r .
his is ved by ing a ion ion f : rd 123 r , and ing f to x .
the ion f is ned ing ing ata , i . e . , cal le ers ith own res and the cor - ing red put .
the cal ork hat we ply to his lem is sup - ort tor ion ( svr ) , a ate - of - the - art ine ing ool for ate ion .
svr is the ion ion of the lar ort tor nes ( 123 ) .
it has a lid cal ion , and is red in ice for its ood cal for - nce .
we iey ibe svr low , and fer ers to ( 123 , 123 ) for ils , and to ( 123 ) as an ple of an svr are age .
to and svr we art rom a ear ion ion f ( x ) = b x + b 123
ume we ave a ing set of n le ers ( ( 123 , 123 ) , .
, ( xn , yn ) ) .
ing ves ing the d - nal ght tor b and set b 123 so hat f ( xi ) is ose to the uth yi for all ing les i = 123 .
ere are any ays to mea - ure ess .
the nal ure sed in svr is the e - ive oss , ned as
l ( f ( x ) , y ) = ( cid : 123 )
| f ( x ) y| e
if | f ( x ) y| e
his oss ion res the ute ror een ion and uth , but ith a nce of e .
the lue e ent in ral , and in our nts we set it to ero .
her oss ons ( e . g . , the red oss ) are ble too , and ten ive lar nce .
hey are not red in his per .
123 l ( f ( xi ) , yi ) .
it ght eem hat the ate way to ate the ers b 123 is to ize the all oss on the ing set ( cid : 123 ) n
ver if d is rge red to the ber of ing les n , one can ten t the ing ata tly .
his is ous , use the uth y in ing ata lly ain dom tua - ons , and f is tly ing the ise .
uch f ill ize rly , i . e .
ing bad ons on ure est ata .
his non is own as ing .
to ent ing , one can uce the ree of dom in f by ing a set of res , hus re - ing d .
an cit but ore ent ive is to ire f to be 123 , ned as ing a all ter orm kb 123
ing oss and ess , we ate the ers b by ing the ing ion lem
l ( f ( xi ) , yi ) + kb 123
ere c is a ght ter to nce the two rms .
the lue of c is lly ted by a ure led oss - ion , ere the ing set is mly lit nto two rts , hen ion ons ith ent c are ned on one art and eir per - nce red on the her art , and lly one cts the c lue ith the est nce .
in our nts we sed c = 123 ing oss - ion .
the ion lem can be ved ing a tic ram .
123 , 123 , 123 , 123
ess , a ear ion f ( x ) is rly ive and may not be ble to ibe the rue ion y .
a ard ati - cal ick is to ent the ure tor x ith non - ear ses de - ved rom x .
for ple , if x = ( 123 , 123 ) , one can ent it ith f ( x ) = ( 123 , 123 123 ) .
the ear sor in the ted ure ace f ( x ) = b f ( x ) +b 123 hen ces a non - ear t in the nal ure ace .
ote b has ore ons han ore .
the ore ons f ( x ) has , the ore ive f mes .
in the eme ( and ten ial ) ase f ( x ) can ven ave in - ite ons .
it ems lly ble to ate the ing ite - nal ter b .
ver , if we ert the mal ion lem ( 123 ) nto its ual orm , one can how hat the ber of ual ers is lly n in - ead of the ion of f ( x ) .
ore , the ual lem ver ses the ted ure f ( x ) tly .
it nly ses the ner uct een irs of ted res f ( x ) f ( x ) k ( x , x ) .
the ion k is own as the nel , and can be com - ted rom the nal ure ors x , x .
for nce , the ra -
ial sis ion ( rbf ) nel k ( x , x ) = exp ( cid : 123 ) g kx 123 ( cid : 123 ) im - tly nds to an ite nal ure ace .
in our nts we sed a rbf nel ith g = 123 , ain ted by oss - ion .
the ual lem can ill be tly ved ing a tic ram .
svr ore rks as ows : for ing , one cts a ing set ( ( 123 , 123 ) , .
, ( xn , yn ) ) , and ies a nel k .
svr ves the ual ion lem , ich tly nds the lly ery igh - nal ter b and b 123 in the aug - ted ure ace ned by k .
his ces a lly 3if b are the nts of a ial ion , the ion ill end to be oth ( ges wly ) if kb 123 is all , or isy if kb 123 is rge .
hly non - ear ion ion f ( x ) .
the ion f ( x ) can hen be ied to ary est ses x , and ces a ion .
in our ase , est ses are the le ize for ich a ion is to be ade and ent ath ies sed on ive nts .
tal ent and
his ion bes the ory ent and eri - tal ure hat we sed to ate our put tor .
123 tal ent
the ory bed sed in our nts is own in fig - ure 123
it ted of ity end sts ted to a ell - ike ogy of sco gsr 123 ers .
oth ent and und afc was ted and ved by the end sts .
afc wed rom the ing sts on ate ths via iga - bit net to ate sco srs ( hop b in the ure ) ere it was ded on 123 ( 123 mb / s ) nks .
his ion was ted in der to ate a ion ive ent tem , as we ibe low .
afc rom the 123 nks was hen xed nto a gle 123 ( 123 mb / s ) ink ( hop c in the ure ) ich med the eck ere ion ook ace .
we sed an ech sx - 123 are - sed ion lay tor on the 123 ink to add 123 nds lay in ach ion for all nts , and red the eck eue to old rox - ely 123 nds of ets .
ets ted the 123 ink via her sco gsr 123 ( hop d in the ure ) and sed to ing sts via bit net .
the ent sts and afc ion sts ere nti - lly red ons ing bsd 123 .
the sta - ons had 123 ghz tel ium 123 ors ith 123 gb of ram and tel pro / 123 ork rds .
hey ere lso ual - med , so hat all ent afc was on a ate ork han ted in ure 123
we led the tcp put ory ing ure in bsd 123 , led by the ble net . net . tcp . ght . ble , to low tcp put to be ned by ent ath per - ies her han put ory .
a key ect of our bed was the ent tem sed to ish the rue ath ies for our ion .
cal lit - ers ere hed to oth the ess and ess nks at hop c and ace dag 123 and 123 ive ing rds ere sed to ure ces of all ets ing and ing the eck ode .
by ing ket ers , we ere ble to ify ich ets ere ost at the ted put eue ing nts , and ely ure ble dth on the ted ink .
ore , the act hat the nts of ets ing and ing hop c ere zed at a ery ne ity ( i . e . , a gle ond ) led us to ely ure ing de - ays ugh the ted ter .
123 tal col
we ted und afc by ing the oon ip raf - c tor ( 123 ) een up to our irs of afc ion sts as ted in ure 123
oon ced pen - oop elf - lar afc ing a avy - led le ize ion , ing a mix of ion afc uch as web and eer - to - eer ons com - mon in ays net .
oon was red to uce ver - age red ads ing rom ely 23% to 23% on the eck ink ( the 123 een ops c and d ) .
ent afc in the bed ted of le ers , and ive nts of ing lay , ket oss , and ble
dth .
for the ent afc sts , we set the tcp re - ive dow ize to 123 kb .
in ive dow ted ers , le fer put was ely 123 mb / s .
hat is , if the ble dth on the eck ink was 123 mb / s or ore , the ow was ive dow ( wnd ) ted , ise it was con - ion dow ( wnd ) ted .
we ted ith oth wnd - and wnd - ted ios .
for ive nts of ble dth and ing / oss , we sed the yaz ( 123 ) and ing ( 123 ) ols , ely .
yaz tes end - to - end ble dth ing a ely low - ead , ive hod lar to oad ( 123 ) .
nce the obe ess is ive , the ime ken to uce an ate can ary rom a few nds to ens of nds .
ing rts two ics of oss des , ely the ncy of oss des , and ean ion of oss des , ing a ght obe ess .
we sed a obe ity ter p of 123 .
her ers ere set ing to ( 123 ) .
in the est of the per , we fer to oth oss ics ned as oss or l .
ing res the der and ver to be ime - zed .
to ate our ide rea nts , the ing ver was ied to ect bes ack to the der , ere hey ere ped and ged as on the nal ver .
hus , the der ock was sed for all obe mps .
we sed ing to ure oss ics use it is the ost ate oss ics ent ool tly le; if ate oss ate ent ols ome ble in the ure , oss ate may ace ncy and ion as the oss tic we use for our ion ism .
the ent ion col ted of the ing :
run ing for 123 nds .
run yaz to ain an ate of the ble dth .
fer a le .
in the der of the per , we fer to the ove ies of eps as a gle ent , and to a ber of ive nts as a ies .
nts in the ide rea mit the ble and - dth ent .
ual nts in a ies are epa - ted by a 123 ond iod .
ies of nts fer rom ach her in hat her the und afc is ent een ies , or the ion of le zes red is ent , or the per - nts are ted ver ent cal ths .
ach ies of nts is ded nto two lly ive ing and est ets for the svr .
the svr ism oes not ire hat the ets of nts hat orm the ing and est set be ive or ous in ime .
in ast , ory - sed ion ods lly ire ive cal ion nce hey ely on ard ies - sed ing els .
in our ion we use ous ons for ing and est ets , i . e .
ing art of a ies mes the ing set and the est the est set .
the ber of nts in ing and est ets may be the ame or ent .
ons of ate ing and est ata ets are not red for ory - sed ds; her , ons are ade ver the ous ion of ant and ent ory .
in our ion of ory - sed ods , we use the nal ion of the ing set as the ing int for the est set .
rom ach ies of nts , we her ree ent ets of nts .
the rst set , lar ive nts ( opm ) , are ab , q , and l nts ing a le fer hat we ain rom ket ces .
we fer to ese nts as lar use hey ive us lly ect ion out
fic tor sts
dag tor ost
sco 123 sco 123
fic tor sts
123 : ory bed .
oss afc wed oss one of two ers at hop b , ile obe afc wed ugh the her .
cal ers ted ace dag 123 and 123 ive ket ure rds to the bed een ops b and c , and ops c and d .
ent afc ( le ers , oss bes , and ble dth bes ) wed rom eft to ght .
ion in the bed red at hop c .
in ice , his ion uld not be ble hen ing a ion for an ary ath .
we use his ion to ish the est ble acy of our pre - ion ism .
the ond set , ive nts ( am ) , are the nts rom our ive ent ols .
ote hat , ike the opm , the am ide ab , q , and l ues ore the ual fer .
the ird set , cal ive nts ( ppm ) , are ace - sed nts of ab , q and l ken at the ame ime as am are ken .
eir ose is to how the est ssi - ble acy of our ion ism ith nts hat can be ned in ice , or to how how uch ter the ccu - acy uld be if the ive nts had ect acy .
all nts are tes for ons on the ath : hey are not cic to any gle tcp ow on the ath .
for nts in the ide rea , we ted a ool , erf .
his ool , ned to run een a air of end sts , tes tcp le ers and ath rty nts ( ing our ied ion of ing ) , and ces put tes ing our svr - sed hod .
it can be red to ate ary le ize ers for oth ing and ing and tes ain - ing hen vel fts are ied as bed in ion 123
123 ing ion acy
we ote the ual put by r and the ted ugh - put by r .
we use the ric ive ion ror e ced in ( 123 ) to ate the acy of an ual put dic - ion .
ive ion ror is ned as
min ( r , r )
in hat ows , we use the ion of the ute lue of e to are ent ion ods .
ing a ust tor
his ion bes how we ped , ted , and val - ted our ion ism ugh an ive set of sts ted in our lab est - bed .
123 ion and ion in the igh
the rst tep in ing our svr - sed put dic - tor is to nd the ion of ing res ich ead to the ost ate ons ver a ide ety of ath ons .
we ned the tor ing a ure tor for ach est hat ned ent ion of our set of get ath ure - nts ( ab , q , l ) and the red put .
ugh we re - fer to oth oss ncy and oss ion her as l or oss
for nal ase , ese res are two ent res in the ure tor .
the ned svr del is hen sed to ict put for a ure tor ing the ing ets of ork nts , and we are the ion acy for the ent ons .
we lso are the acy of svr to the lly ted
ing age ( wma ) ory - sed tor ( hb ) bed in ( 123 ) , 123 = a ri + ( 123 a ) ri , ith an a lue of 123 .
we do not ort led lts rom sts ith low iza - ion on the eck ink , i . e . , ive dow und ows , be - use in the low ion ios ere is ery tle nce in put of ows .
our svr - sed tor ted 23% ac - ate sts for ese sts .
ver , any ble ion hod can ast put ite ely in his rio .
for ple , the ula - sed tor sed in ( 123 ) , ich is sed on ( 123 ) , rms rly in igh ion ios , but is ate in low ion ios .
for ost of the lts ted , we ted an age of 123 mb / s of und afc to ate igh ion on our 123 ( 123 mb / s ) eck ink .
we sed one set of 123 nts for ing and her set of 123 nts for ing .
an 123 mb le was red in ach ent .
in our ial nts we use an 123 mb le use it is rge ugh to ake low - art an ant tor in put for our ive dow ize of 123 kb; in ter ons we der ler le zes ere low - art has a ger act on all put .
res 23a to 23l how ter ots ing the ual and pre - ted put ing ent ion ods as sed low .
a int on the nal nts ect ion ccu - cy; the her a int is rom the nal , the ter the dic -
123 . 123 ing ath nts rom an cle
ure 23a ows the ion acy ter lot for the hb hod .
res 23b to 23h how the ion ror ith svr ing lar ive nts ( opm ) for ent ons of ath nts in the ure tor .
for ple , svr - opm - eue ans hat nly ing lay nts ere sed to ain and est , ile svr - opm - ab - eue ans hat oth ble dth and ing lay nts ere sed to ain and est .
ble 123 ows ive ion ors for hb ing and for svm - opm - sed ons .
ues in the ble ate the ion of ons for a ven hod hin a ven acy vel .
for ple , the rst two mns of the rst row in ble 123 ean hat 23% of hb ons ave ive ion ors of 23% or ler ile 23% of svr - opm - ab ons ave ive ion ors of 23% or ler .
we ent ter ots
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
123 : son of ion acy of hb , svr - opm , svr - ppm , and svr - am in igh und afc ons .
in ion to lar ata to ide ght nto how ent ath ies ute to put ion in the svr hod .
rom ure 23a , we can see hat the ons for the hb pre - tor are her ely red und the nal , and hat ons in low - put ons end to ave rge ela - ive ror .
res 23b , 23c , and 23d how the ior of the svr tor ing a gle ure of ath ies in the ure rab , l , and q ely .
the ab and q phs ave a lar all end : ons are ate ( i . e . , nts are ose to the nal ) for igh ual put ues , but far rom the nal , ost in a tal ine , for wer ues of ual put .
the l aph has the ite end : nts are ose to the nal for wer ues of ual put , and orm a tal ine for her ues of ual put .
the ion for ese nds ies in the act hat le ans - ers ith low ual put nce oss , ile le ers ith igh ual put do not nce any oss .
hen oss urs , the ues of ab and q for the ath are rly ant .
ab is ost ero , and q is the mum ble lue ( ich nds on the unt of ing ble at the eck ink in the ath ) .
in his ase , put nds on the lue of l .
nce , l ars to be a ood tor hen ere is oss on the ath , and ab and q , ing nts in his ase , ave no ive wer , ing in tal nes , i . e . , a gle lue of ted put .
on the her and , hen ere is no oss , l is a con - ant ith lue ero , so l has no ive wer , ile ab and q are ble to ict put ite ely .
res 23e to 23h how nts on the ion acy ned by ing ore han one ath rty in the svr ure tor .
we can see hat hen l is ned ith her ab or q , the tal nes on the phs are ced by nts uch ser to the nal , so ing l ith ab or q ows the svr hod to ict ely in oth ssy and ess ork ons .
nts of ab and q ear to rve the ame ion , ely , ing to ict put in ess ons .
his ion egs the ion : do we lly eed oth ab and q , or can we use ust one of the two and ill eve the ame dic - ion acy ? to wer his ion , we red ab - oss and oss - eue ons ith ach her and ith ab - oss - eue ons ( i . e . , res 23e , 23g , and 23h ) .
the ral end in all ree ses , as een rom the ter ots , is the ame : the zon - tal ine of nts is ced or ted , ing hat dic - ion rom non - ant - lue nts is ing for oth ssy and ess ork ons .
if we are the ab - oss and oss - eue phs ore ely , we rve two ngs .
rst , in the ess ion ase , the nts are ser to the ago - nal in the oss - eue ase han in the ab - oss ase .
ond , in the oss - eue ase , the ion in the ion rom the oss - ess to the ssy ase is oth , i . e . , ere is no tal ine of nts , ile in the ab - oss ase ere is ill a tal ine of nts in the ual put nge of 123 mb / s .
his sug - sts hat q is a ore ate tor han ab in the ess ase .
the ive ion ror ata of ble 123 rts his : svr ith a ure tor ing oss - eue ion pre - cts put hin 23% of ual for 23% of ers , ile a ure tor ing ab - oss nts cts ith the ame acy vel for 23% of ers .
lly , ere is no dif - nce in acy ( her ely or ely ) een oss - eue and ab - oss - eue .
the ove ion sts hat ab nts are not re - red for hly ate put ion , and hat a mbi -
123 : ive acy of ory - sed ( hb ) put ion and svr - sed ors ing ent pes of lar ive ath nts ( svr - opm ) in the ure tor .
ble ues ate the ion of ons hin a ven acy vel .
123 : ive acy of ory - sed ( hb ) put ion and svr - sed ors ing ace - sed ive ath ure - nts ( ppm ) or ive ath nts ( am ) .
ble ues in - ate the ion of ons hin a ven acy vel .
ion of l and q is ent ( ven our ork ) .
his ser - ion is not nly ing , but her ood ews .
ior ork has own hat ate nts of ab ire at ast der - ate nts of obe afc ( 123 , 123 ) , and ome ula - sed tcp put ion mes ake as a ven hat ab ure - nts are ary for ate put ion ( 123 ) .
ast , nts of l and q can be ery ght obe ses ( 123 ) .
we uss ent ead her in sec -
123 . 123 ing cal ive and ive ath mea -
so far , we ave red the ion acy of svr sed on nly lar ive nts ( opm ) .
his ves us the ine for the est - ase acy ith svr , and lso des in - ght nto how svr ses ent ath ies for ion .
ble 123 and the phs in ure 123 ows hat hb cts 23% of ers hin 23% of ual ile svr - opm - oss - eue pre - cts 23% , an ost 123 - old ent .
in ice , ver , ect nts of ath ies are not ble , so in hat ows we ess svr ing nts hat are ore ike ose ble in the ide rea .
we are hb ith svr - ppm and svr - am .
due to ace ons , we ent nly oss - eue and ab - oss - eue re - lts for svr .
we ose ese use we ect ab - oss - eue to ave the est acy as it has the ost ion out ath ies , and oss - eue use it is ery ght and has acy ual to ab - oss - eue for svr - opm .
res 23i and 23j how ted and ual put for svr - ppm and res 23k and 23l how ted and ual put
for svr - am .
ble 123 nts ive ion ror ata for hb , svr - ppm and svr - am .
we ish to ine ree ues : rst , her our ing hat oss - eue has the ame ion ccu - acy as ab - oss - eue rom the svr - opm ase lds for the svr - ppm and svr - am se; ond , her svr - ppm and svr - am ave the ame cy; and ird , how svr - am acy com - res ith hb ion acy .
all the ter ots rom res 23i to 23l are ely ery ar; his is ing use it sts two ngs .
rst , oss - eue has lar ion acy as ab - oss - eue , i . e . , the ion rom svr - opm ill lds , so we can eve ood ion acy out ing to ure ab .
the ive ion ror ata in ble 123 rts his cal ion : ab - oss - eue has nly tly ter acy han oss - eue for oth svr - ppm and svr - am .
ond , svr - am has acy lar to svr - ppm , i . e . , ing ive ent ols to sti - ate ath ies lds ons ost as ate as hav - ing und - uth nts .
the ata in ble 123 her sub - tes his ion .
lar acy een svr - ppm ons and svr - am ons is ant use in eal ide - rea net ths ion is lly not ble for ing ate ive nts .
lly , we are hb ith svr - am .
ugh res 23a , 23k and 23l are ely lar , svr - am has a ter ter of nts und the nal for igh ual put han hb .
hus , svr - am ars to ave her acy han hb .
as ta - ble 123 ows , svr - am - oss - eue cts put hin 23% of ual acy 23% of the ime , ile hb oes so nly 23% of the ime .
nce , for igh afc ios , svr - am - oss - eue , the lly ble ght ion of the svr - sed ion ism , tly rms hb ion .
123 . 123 the ure of ion ror
lu et al .
( 123 ) ved in eir udy hat put ion ors ere ely mal in ion .
as the ors ted , ity uld ify ard ons of nce als .
we ned the ion of ors in our nts and lso und nce ive of ity .
ure 123 ows two mal ile - ile ( q - q ) ots for svr - opm - oss - eue ( ure 23a ) and svr - am - oss - eue ( ure 23b ) .
les hat are ent ith a mal ion orm rox - ely a ght ine in the aph , rly ard the ter .
in res 23a and 23b , we see hat the put ion sam - les in ach ase orm ely ght nes .
ese rva - ons are ent ith ity in the ion of ion ors .
ror ons rom her nts ere lso con - ent ith the mal ion , but are not own due to ace ons .
we her uss the ues of ing and of de - ing ion ems in ion 123
123 ion of ion acy ith
vel - ift und afc
in the ous ion , we red svr and hb ion acy der ble but ary und afc .
in his ion , we der the ase ere ere is a ift in age oad of und afc .
we ure our afc ion ess to cle een 123 mb / s and 123 mb / s age red ads .
ith 123 mb / s afc , ere is lly no oss ong the ath and the put is und by the ive dow ize .
ith 123 mb / s afc , the 123 bot - eck is ted and mic oss ues .
the ure is to run 123 mb / s und afc for 123 tes , wed by 123
( a ) q - q lot svr - opm - oss - eue .
( b ) q - q lot
123 : mal q - q ots for ion ors ith ( a ) lar mea - nts and ( b ) ive nts of oss - eue .
mb / s of afc for 123 urs 123 min , ing his cle ral mes .
we low the ent col in ion 123 for ing ab , l , q , and put nts .
we rst ain our svr tor in the 123 mb / s ent , and est it in the 123 mb / s ent .
the umn led opm - l - q igh in ble 123 ows the lts .
rly , the ion acy is ery oor : all ons are off by a tor of two or ore .
ext , we ain the tor on one ole cle of 123 mb / s and 123 mb / s , and est it on a ies of les .
the ast two mns of ble 123 , opm - oss - eue and am - oss - eue , and ure 23a how the re - lts rom ese nts .
the x - xis in ure 23a is ime pre - ted by the ber of le ers hat ave ted , and the y - xis is put .
in his ase , oth svr - opm and svr - am pre - ict put ith igh acy .
svr - opm cts put hin 23% of ual 23% of the ime , and svr - am 23% of the ime .
for son , the rst umn of ble 123 and ure 23b ent lts for the ory - sed tor .
hb acy is sig - tly wer han svr acy , nly out alf as uch as svr - opm .
ure 23b ins why .
ter ery vel - ift in the und afc , the hb tor kes ime to re - apt .
in con - ast , no ion ime is red for the svr tor if it has ady een ned on the nge of ted afc ons .
one sue ing fts in age afc ume is how any les rom a new , sly een afc vel are ded to ely ain the tor .
to ine his sue , we ain our tor on two new nds of age afc ads : a tep con - ing 123 tes of 123 mb / s afc wed by 123 tes of 123 mb / s afc ing in 123 nts at the her afc vel , and a tep ing of 123 tes of 123 mb / s afc fol - wed by 123 tes of 123 mb / s afc ing in 123 nts
ile fer ine
( a ) vel ift : svr - am - oss - eue
ile fer ine
( b ) vel ift : hb
123 : ion acy in ing und afc
at the her afc vel .
we all ese ons svr - am - l - q - 123 and svr - am - l - q - 123 ely .
the ion acy of ese mes is ted in ble 123
as can be een in the ble , ese ing mes eld ost of the acy of svr - am - l - q , ich ins at the 123 mb / s vel for ely 123 eri - nts .
ese lts ate hat rly all ing ets rom new afc els are ded for ate ion .
a son of ime ies ots rom ese nts ( not own due to ace nts ) des her ght nto how ion acy ves ith ger ing ets .
oth svr - am - l - q - 123 and svr - am - l - q - 123 ave ods ere the ted put is rtu - lly ant ven ugh the ual put is not .
uch ods are ter for svr - am - l - q - 123 red to svr - am - l - q - 123
svr - am - l - q ( ure 23a ) has no uch ods .
the son for his ect is hat ors ing wer les may not ude a oad ugh nge of ble ork ons .
ver , the svr ion ism can ill eld igh acy ing a all set of ing les if the les are ive of the nge of ork ons ong a ath .
123 ion of ion acy for dif -
ent ile zes
we ave so far red nly 123 mb le ers in tep 123 of the tal col of ion 123 .
for a tcp ive win - dow of 123 kb , the ity of the ime of an 123 mb fer is ent in cps ion nce ase .
ver , our oal is an ate tor for a nge of le zes , not ust ulk ers .
ing put for all les is ted by cps low art ase in ich put ges dly ith ing le ize due to the ing of the dow ery und - rip ime , and use ket oss ing the fer of a all le can ave a rge ive act on put .
we ize hat ing dif -
123 : ive acy of ory - sed ( hb ) and svr - sed put ors ing lar ath nts ( opm ) and ive nts ( am ) hen ors are ted to fts in age und afc ume .
123 : son of ive acy of svr - sed put pre - ion ing ive nts ( am ) and ent ers of ing les .
123 ing les are sed in am - oss - eue , 123 les for am - l - q - 123 , and 123 les for am - l - q - 123
ack - und afc sts of fts in age afc ume een 123 mb / s and 123 mb / s .
ent le zes to ain the svr tor ill ead to ate ore - sts for a oad nge of le zes - ing not ted in ior hb ion ies .
we ted nts ing und afc at an ver - age red oad of 123 mb / s and ing a ies of 123 ing ets ing of een 123 and 123 que le zes .
the le zes for the ing ets are een 123 kb and 123 mb .
the rst ing set sts of a gle le ize of 123 mb , the ond ing set sts of two le zes of 123 kb and 123 mb , and the ird ing set dds a le ize of 123 kb .
ent ing ets ple the nge een 123 kb and 123 mb uch hat the ion of a fer ime ent in low art ers a der nge .
est ets for our nts ist of 123 le zes een 123 kb and 123 mb a uch ore rse set han the ing set .
the est le zes are awn rom a sed dom ber tor in uch a way hat the ing le ers bit a ide nge of ior , i . e . , les hat are lly red ing low art , and ers ing of a ing ion of ime ent in low art sus ion nce .
we use a der nge of all les in the est set to low us to see how our tor rms for een and ult to ict le zes .
we do not use a der nge for rge le zes use we ect the put to be ost ant ( i . e . , dow or ion ted ) nce low art mes an ant ion of the fer ime .
les 123 and 123 ent ion acy for ing ets con - ing of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 nct le zes for svr - opm and svr - am .
phs in ure 123 ent svr - am lts for one , two , and ree le zes in the ing set .
we do not ude phs for re - ing ing ets due to ace ons : hey are lar to
123 : ive acy of svr - sed tor ing lar ive nts ( opm ) and ing ets ing of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 nct le zes .
of nct le zes in ing
123 : ive acy of svr - sed tor ing ive ure - nts ( am ) and ing ets ing of 123 , 123 , 123 , 123 , or 123 nct
of nct le zes in ing
123 : ils of ron ths sed for ide - rea nts
new ico - new ork
ath rtt ( ms )
123 : ide rea lts for 3kb ers
123 : ide rea lts for 3mb ers
ose for two and ree le zes in the ing set .
the rst ser - ion is hat for the gle le ize in ing , the ion ror is ery igh .
his acy is ted use the tor has een ven no ion out the hip een ize and put for all les .
the ond ion is hat for ore han one le ize , ion mes lly ore ate , i . e . , the tor is ble to lly ate rom a ful of zes in ing to a rge ber of zes in ing .
the ird ion is hat ive ror is low for rge le zes ( rre - ing to igh ual put ) ile it is her for all les ( low ual put ) .
his is ent ith our ion hat it uld be ore ult to ely ict put for all les .
the rth ion is hat for all le zes ( i . e . , all ual put ) , the ror is ays hat of ver - ion .
the est le in the ing set is 3kb ile the est le in the est set is 3kb .
his nce is the use of ver - ion ors : the hip een le ize and put is pli - ted for all les , and out a der ing set , the svr ism is ble to ide ate ion .
an ant nal ion is hat ion acy hes a mum at ree le zes in the ing set , and ere is no ear end for our to ine le zes in the ing set .
a ure of our ing set is hat the ber of ers is ays ant at one red , so for the gle ing ize , ere are one red 123 mb ers , and for the two ing zes , ere are fty 123 kb ers and fty 123 mb ers .
we eve hat acy is max - mum at ree ing zes in our nts use ere is a ade - off een ing a ity of le zes and the ber of les for a gle le his was ded to in our cus - ion of the ber of les ded for ood ion acy in ion 123 .
in her rds , we eve hat we uld not see mum acy ing at ree le zes and uld ead see an ase in acy ith ing ber of le zes in the ing set if we ept the ber of les of a gle le ize ant in the ing set and wed the ize of the ing set to ase rom 123 to 123 , 123 , etc . , as we ase the ber of le zes in the ing set .
a ugh ion of the ade - off een ity of le zes and ber of les of ach le ize is ure ork .
ide rea est lts
to her ate our svr put ion hod we ted a ype ool led erf hat can ate mea - nts and ake sts on ide rea ths .
we sed ath - erf to uct nts ver a all set of ths in the ron
the ron des sed in our nts ave a nge of cpu and ory ons , but all ran bsd 123 and had lim - ted nal tal oad ing the ime of our sts .
we ted our sts ver the set of ths bed in ble 123
ese ude ve ans - tal ths and one ans - tic ath .
ile his ath set is est in ize , it has ive ity in ath rac - ics and und - rip mes hat nge een 3ms and 3ms .
nce we ave own hat ab ent oes not ove put ion acy , we ate it in the tal col bed in ion 123 .
we uct nts for two get le zes : 123 kb and 3mb .
the ing and est ets ist of 123 ers of a lar le ize .
the nts ere ted een ber 123 , 123 and ber 123 , 123
les 123 and 123 how the lts of the sts .
the ion ac - acy is igh on all ths for oth le zes : in any ses svr
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
ual put ( mb / s )
( a ) svr - am ith le ize of 123 mb in
( b ) svr - am ith le zes of 123 kb and 123 mb in ing set .
( c ) svr - am ith le zes of 123 kb , 123 kb , and 123 mb in ing set .
123 : ter ots for the svr - sed tor ing 123 , 123 , or 123 nct le zes in the ing set .
all lts own use ive nts to ain the tor .
ing is one ing a nge of 123 le zes rom 123 kb to 123 mb .
ion acy is hin 23% of ual ter han 23% of the ime .
in ost ses , the ion acy for 3kb and 3mb ers is lar .
the one ion is ath 123 , ere acy is hin 23% of nal nly 23% of the ime for 3kb ans - ers , but is uch her at 23% of the ime for 3mb ers .
we und hat on his lar ath the ent of ion for the ual put of 3kb les is ice hat of 3mb les , ing ion for 3kb les ore ult and ing hat ath ons ere ore mic ing his est .
our ent ata wed hat any ide rea ths ere tly ded ing our sts and ted ery tle ion in put een ent le ers .
we are in the ess of ing our ide rea ent set bly in the ope hat we ill ter ore ity on ese ths , ich ill ble us to her ene rfs ity .
lly , we lso ted the hb ors nce in ese nts and und its sts to be ely the ame as svr .
we ex - ect hat , as we nd ths ith ore mic ons , our svr tor ill ish elf as our lab nts ate .
his ion ses two key ues ted to ing erf
in nal ngs .
ork oad ced by erf .
afc ced by ive ent ols is of ern use ive afc can kew the ork rty ing red .
ore , net - ork ors and ers lly ish to ize any im - act ent afc may ave on mer afc .
for ory - sed tcp put ion ods , the spe - cic unt of afc ced nds on the ent pro - col .
for ple , two hes may be ken .
the rst hod is to lly fer xed - ize es; the ond is to low a tcp ion to fer ata for a xed ime iod .
the lat - ter ach was ken in the ory - sed ion of he et al .
to ate the ead of a ory - sed tor us - ing xed - ion ers , ume hat ( 123 ) the tcp ion is not wnd - ted , ( 123 ) hat the xed ion of ata fer is 123 nds ( as in ( 123 ) ) , ( 123 ) put nts are ted ev - ery 123 tes , and ( 123 ) put ely hes ble and - dth .
for his ple , ume hat the age ble and - dth for the ion of the ent is ely 123 mb / s .
hus , ver a 123 ute iod , rly 123 gb in ent afc is ced , ing in an age dth of out 123 mb / s .
in the ase of erf , ent ead in the ing pe - iod sts of le ers and ing / oss obe nts .
in the ing ase , ead sts ely of oss nts .
ume hat we ave a 123 ute ing iod wed by a 123 ute ing iod .
ume hat le zes of 123 kb , 123 kb , and 123 mb are red ing the ing iod , ing 123 sam - les of ach le , and hat ach le fer is ded by a 123 ond ing ent .
ith a obe ity of 123 , ing afc for ach ent is out 123 mb .
for est - ing , nly ing nts ust be ing .
ume hat a 123 ond ing ent is ted ery ree min - tes .
hus , ver the 123 ute ing iod out 123 mb of ent afc is ced , ing in an age dth of out 123 mb / s for the rst 123 tes .
for the ing iod , a tal of 123 mb of ent afc is ced , ing in a ate of out 123 kb / s .
all , erf ces 123 kb / s on age ver the 123 ute ent iod , lly dif - ent rom a ard ory - sed ent ach .
ven if ore ive ons are ade on the ory - sed ach , the ces in ead are ant .
ain , the son for the tic ngs is hat nce the svr tor has een ned , nly ght nts are red for ccu - ing ems in ion .
an ant ity for put ion in ive nts is to ect hen ere are ant ion ors .
uch ors uld be ive of a nge in ork ing , ing an upt nge in lay , oss , and put .
it uld lso nal a cal ork ion , uch as an ing ial - of - ice ack ing to mic ork oss ong a ath .
on the her and , it may sim - ply be a ent ier ith no ork - sed use .
as sed in ion 123 . 123 , ity ows us to use tan - ard cal ery to ute nce als ( i . e . , us - ing red nce of ion ror ) .
we how hat ion ors are ent ith a mal ion and her ose ing nce als as a ism for ing ing of the svr in the ing way .
ume hat we ave ned the svr tor ver n ent ods ( i . e . , we ave n ugh - put les and n les of l and q ) .
ume hat we hen col - ect k nal put les , ing ons for ach ple and ing the ror .
we ore ave k ror les een hat was ted and hat was tly red .
ven a nce vel , e . g . , 23% , we can ate nce als on the ple ror ion .
we can hen , ith low
ncy , ect nal put les to est her the ion ror eds the val nds .
( ote hat ese ddi - nal les may be ion afc for ich ons are sed . ) if so , we may ide hat ing the svr tor is ate .
a ger in ing an ate ing is hat uch a icy may be too ive to ers ess of the con - nce val sen .
ore lly , we can der a old m of ive ion ors hat eed the ted con - nce val nds as a ger for ing .
ary and ure ork
in his per we ess the lem of how to ate ate tcp put ons for ary ths in the net .
our ach ses a ful ine ing ool - ort tor ion - ich des an ent ism for ing a tor ing ple uts .
we ate nts of ath ies ing ing lay , ket oss , and ble dth hat can be sed ong ith ior put ure - nts as the ure set for our tor .
ugh an ive se - ies of lab - sed nts we nd hat our svr tor kes hly ate sts ing nts of ing and oss , and hat ble dth ent oes not ove pre - ons .
in avy afc ons , the svr sts are rly 123 mes ore ate han ior hb ors .
we ake a se - ies of ons to the svr tor to ake it lly ble .
her lab nts how hat ese ons ble the tor to ork ell for a ide nge of le zes , to be ust to nts rom ive obe ols , and to apt to ing ath ons .
we ted a ool led erf ich les us to est our svr tor in the net .
in ial sts in the ron bed , we how hat erf tes hly ate ugh - put ons .
erf lso tes far ess obe afc com - red to a hb tor red as ted in ior ork .
in ure ork , we end to nue to ene erf by ves - ing how to ter une the ing set , and bly ent ith her ine ing ols .
we are ing to and the sts run in the ide rea so hat we can ate rfs ity der a der nge of ath ons .
we uld ike to ank vid sen for ing us ess to the ron bed , and ana aro for elp ith the ail lab bed .
we lso ank the ous ers for eir elp - ful ons .
his ork was ted in art by nsf nts ers cns - 123 , cns - 123 , cns - 123 , and ccr - 123
any ons , ngs , ons , or nda - ons sed in his ial are ose of the ors and do not ily ect the ews of the nsf .
