we ent a vel ext - to - ure tem hat the - zes a ure rom ral , ted ral lan - age ext .
the ess is ous to ext - to - ech sis , but ith ial put hat eys the ist of the ext .
our tem tes ple ai mpo - nts , ing ral age ing , ter ion , ter ics , and ine ing .
we ent an ion ork hat nes ese nts by rst ing ive and pic - ble ext its , hen ing for the ost ely age rts ned on the ext , and lly miz - ing the ure out ned on oth the ext and age rts .
the ess of our tem is sed in two ser ies ing ens oks and ews ar - les .
nts how hat the zed res vey as uch ion out ens ies as the nal sts ons , and uch ore for - ion out ews les han eir nal tos one .
ese lts est hat ext - to - ure the - sis has eat ial in ing man - ter and man - man ion ies , ith ap - ons in ion and lth are , ong ers .
a ure is rth a and rds .
ver , ery few ems ert ral ext to ial ons hat can be sed in any ces to ace or ent the ext .
we ent a vel ext - to - ure ( ttp ) the - sis tem ich lly tes res , hat ims to vey the ary ent of ral ral age ext .
ure 123 ows a ure lly ted by our ttp tem .
our tem oys ai ues ing rom ral age ing , ter ion , com - ter ics , to ine ing .
we ate ese com - nts nto a ive zer , ere the rgy of ext nit ion , age rts ion , and out op - ion ces ent nal res .
for ple , we use ity to nce ord ion , and use ord nce to nce the out of the ure
we ank the ous ers for eir ive com - nts .
rch ted in art by the sin mni re - ght c ( cid : 123 ) 123 , ion for the ent of ial nce ( www . aai . org ) .
all hts ved .
hay to the
ure 123 : a ure ted by our ttp tem .
ils , as ell as an ate ion ric , are pre - ted .
ser udy nts how hat nts de - ons of ttp ges ain rds hat are a ser ( or ent ) tch to the nal ext han eir ons of nal ons or tos hat any the ext .
ttp has any ons hen a ext ace is not ate .
one ant ion is acy lop - ent .
for ren who are ing to ead and for sec - ond age ers , ing res her ith ext may nce ing ( yer 123 ) .
her ion is as a ing aid for ple ith ing ies or ain age .
ttp can ert ual nus , gns , and ety and ing ons nto cal nta - ons .
tly , ttp put can be ted on and by a ser and oes not end on a dor to uce it .
ven - lly , a son ght rry a pda ped ith ttp and cal ter ion so hat the son uld gen - ate ual ons as ded ing eir ily ivi - ies .
ttp lly cts as a sal age hen com - ion is ded sly to any ple who eak ent ges , for ple for ort lic an - nts ( cea & ong 123 ) .
ttp can uce ual ies for dly ing ong ext nts .
the ent ork ers rom ous ext - to - ene ype ems in its cus on ing the ist of ral , nre - ted ext .
ous ems ere ten ant to be sed by ics ers as an ive way to ify the out of a ene .
uch ext - to - ene ems end to pha - ize ial ing .
les ude lig ( rni , nzo , & lia 123 ) , int ( ada et al .
123 ) , put ( lay & lms 123 ) and , bly , rds - eye ( yne & oat 123 ) .
eye is ble to uce hly tic 23d nes by ing nds of pre - ned 23d ral ect els ith led ual ags , and eep tic ons of the ext .
nse - tly , eye rks est ith ain ive sen - ces , e . g . , the awn wer is 123 eet all .
ohn hes the awn wer .
the cat is 123 eet ind ohn .
the cat is 123 eet all .
her ems ude ( own & ran 23; lu & ang 123 ) .
sim ( son et al .
123 ) rts ial - ain ves on oad nts nto an ted ene ing ons .
ols ( ner 123 ) and her hic bol ems ate bol - for - ord ngs her han a ent ure hat eys a bal
the ext - to - ure tem
let the put ext be a ord nce 123 : n of gth n .
in our ive ttp zer , we rst use ral lan - age ing ues to ect k ses ( por - ant rds or ses und hin 123 : n ) to raw .
hen for ach ted ase , we use ter ion ech - ues to nd a ing age ii .
( we use the ord ure to ote the all sed put , ile im - age to ote the ual nts . ) lly we use ter ics ues to lly nge all k im - ges to ate the put ure .
to ate ese com - nts her , we ate the ttp lem as ing the ost ely ses k 123 : k , and ent 123 : k ven the put ext 123 : n :
in our ion , the ent ci of age i is eci - ed by the ter tes , but her ors uch as ale , ion and pth can be ted too .
to ake the ion lem ble , we ize the ity
123 : k ) = axk , i , c p ( k , i , 123 : n ) .
123 : k , ges i
p ( k , i , c|w ) = p ( k|w ) p ( i|k , w ) p ( c|i , k , w ) ,
and ate the int zer of eq .
( 123 ) by the max - ers of ach tor in eq .
( 123 ) , as bed low .
ing ses ven a ece of ext , e . g . , a nce or a ole ook , the rst ion is , ich ses uld be ted to orm the ure ? lly , we lve the lem
123 : k = axk p ( k|w ) .
our ach is sed on ive ble ord ion .
hat is , it lds on ard ord - sed ext ion ( ney 23; cea & rau 123 ) , ere rds and ses are ted rom the ext sed on tic ues .
the ral sue in key - ord ion is to ate the nce of cal its .
we do so ing an sed ing ach sed on the ank thm ( cea & rau 123 ) .
ank nes a aph ver ate rds sed on co - nce in the ent ext , and ses the ary tri - ion of a ing dom alk on the aph as the im - nce ure .
our lty is hat we ude a ial
ing ion ver the rds in the aph .
our ing ion is sed on ity , ich res the ity of ing a ood age for a ord .
our ach hus cts ses hat are ant to the ing of the ext and are lso asy to ent by an the ank aph ing cea and ta - rau ( 123 ) , we ene the ank aph ver ual rds .
the ing of ese rds ill be sed ter to con - uct the nal set of ger ses .
all uns , per uns , and ves ( ept ose in a top ist ) are ted as ate rds ing a art - of - ech ger .
we hen ild a co - nce aph ith ach ord as a tex .
we ent his ted aph as a co - nce rix , ere try ij is 123 if erm i and erm j co - cur hin a dow of ize 123
ing ion sed on ity we ase ach aph exs ing ity on her we are ely to nd an age for the ing ord .
we all his ure ity and ute it ing a tic ion del .
the ity tic re - ion del was ned on a lly - led set of 123 rds , mly ted rom a rge ary .
ive an - ors tly led the rds .
a ord is led as ble ( y = 123 ) if an tor is ble to raw or nd a ood age of the ord .
hen own the age , her peo - ple uld be ble to ess the ord elf or a lar ord .
rds led as non - ble ( y = 123 ) ack a rly rec - ble ted age ( e . g . , ity ) .
we ent a ord ing 123 ate res , ved rom the log - ios een 123 raw nts .
we ain the raw nts rom ous web ics , uch as the num - ber of its rom age and web age rch nes ( e . g . , gle , hoo ! , ckr ) in nse to a ery of the ord .
we orm ard ure ion ith 123 - zed tic ion .
the log - tio een gle age rch hit unt and gle web rch hit unt omi - ted all her res in rms of oss - ion log ike - ood .
ith the cal ion hat a ght tem uld est as few raw web nts as ble , we de - ded to ate a del ith nly his one ure .
ely , ber of ges vs .
web ges is a ood ura - ity ure hat res age ncy ith ect to ord ncy .
the ing ity tic res - ion del is
p ( y = 3|x ) =
123 + exp ( ( 23x + 123 ) )
( 123 + 123 ) / ( 123 + 123 )
ere x = log is the log ra - tio een hed nts 123 ( gle age its ) and 123 ( gle web its ) , and 123 is a ing ant to ent ero nts .
for ple , the ord ana has 123 , 123 gle age its and 123 , 123 , 123 web its .
we nd hat p ( y = ana ) = 123 , ing ana is bly a ble ord .
on the her and , the ord ian has 123 , 123 gle age its and 123 , 123 , 123 web its , so p ( y = ian ) = 123 , ing it is not so ble .
we use eq .
( 123 ) to ute a ity lue for ach ate ord in the ank aph .
ese ues are zed to orm the ing ion tor r .
ing the nal ses to ain the ank - ing of rds , we ute the ary ion of the ing dom alk
p + ( 123 ) 23r
ere p is the aph - sed ion rix ( i . e . , row - zed co - nce rix ) and r is the ing ion ned ove .
his is the ame ion sed by ank .
is an ion ght , ich we set to 123 , and 123 is an all - nes tor .
the ary tri - ion tes the ity or ive nce of ach ord in the aph , ing nto unt ity .
we se - ect the 123 rds ith the est ary ies , and orm ses by ing ent ces of the ted rds ( as ong as the ing ase has a pic - ity ity ter han 123 ) .
ext , we ard ses ing uns , ple ies of the ame ase , and ses hat are med by her ger ses .
the end ult is a ist of ses hat ear ant and are ely to be ble by an age .
lly , ach ex - ted ase ki is ned an nce ore s ( ki ) , ich is ual to the age ary ity of the rds ing it .
i = xii
ing ges the oal of his age is to nd one age to ent ach ted ase .
our thm les ach ase i ) , i = 123 .
our age ion ule nes two ces to nd uch an age .
rst , we use a lly led art li - ary .
ond , if the ase not be und in the li - ary , we use an age rch ine and ter ion ues .
ing the two ces res ate re - lts for mon ses , ich are ely to ist in the ary , and ood lts for her ary ses .
we cus on the ond rce low .
age rch nes are not ect , ich ans any ges ned do not lly ent the ase the rst age ned by an im - age rch ine is ten not a ood age to ict the ase .
our ach to ing the est age rom rch lts , ich is lar to the hod by ben - aim et al .
( 123 ) , sts of the ing eps .
rst , the top 123 ges for his ase are ved ing gle age rch .
ext , ach age is ted nto a set of int ons ing an age ion thm ( zen - alb & her 123 ) .
ers for the thm ere set so hat , on age , ach age is ted nto a all ber of nts so hat ver - ion of the ect of est is ess ely .
for ach ion ted in ach age , we ext com - ute a ure tor to ibe the nce of hat re - ion .
lor ams ave een own to orm ell for ses of ary lor phs ( ers , key - ers , & ney 123 ) .
we ute a tor of lor res
ure 123 : the age ion ess on ree ved im - ges for the ord ids .
ion ies are aid on the ges .
the ion est to the oid of the est ter is ted by the row , and hat age is ted as the est for the ord .
to ibe ach ion .
lly , the lor ram in luv lor ace of all els in a ion is ted .
the l ent is hen zed nto 123 ins , and the uv irs of ues are zed nto 123 ins , ing in a ure tor of ize 123
the ure ors in all ges are now red in fea - ure ace .
ing ere are ral ons hat rre - ond to the ase and eir ces are lar , we ect to nd a act ter in ure ace .
we use the ean ift ing thm ( ciu & eer 123 ) .
ing hat ons ing to und rts of an age are not as lar to one her as the ons hat ond to the ase , we eat the est ter as the one hat is ost ely to ond to the ase .
nce the est ter is und , we nd the ion ose ure tor is est to the oid of his ter .
the age ich ins his ion is hen ted as the est age for his ase .
ure 123 ows an ple of the ult of his thm .
ure out the ird and nal age kes the ext , the ses , and eir ted ges , and nes a 23d ial out of the ges , c 123 : k = axc p ( c|w , k , i ) , to ate the put ure .
our lem of ing a set of ges is lar to the lem of ing ure ges , e . g . , ( ang et al .
ver , our oal is to ate a out hat lps to vey the ing of the ext by ing the por - ant cts and eir ons .
nce we are ted in ing ted ext , we do not ume the ity of tic dge or ect ion nts , ing ead on the ure of the ext and ral lay - out les hat ake the ure ely ble .
to his end , we rst ale all the ges to ake hem hly the ame ize .
to ine the est ons for the ges , we ene a ood out to ave the ing ree per - 123
mum lap : lap een ges uld be
ity : ant ges uld be ear the ter ,
ess : ges ing to ses hat are
ose in the put ext uld be ose in the ure .
ing the est ons for all the ges is ted as an ion lem to ize the ive :
ere s are hts , o ( ii , ij ) is the rea of lap be - een res ii and ij , tal is the sum of the eas of all ges , s ( ki ) is the nce of ase ki , d ( ii ) is the nce of age ii rom the ter of the ure , and q ( i , j ) is an tor ion ned as
q ( i , j ) =
if the ess int is ted
the ess int is ted if two ses , ki and kj , are ose in the ext but eir ing ges , ii and ij , are not ing in the ure .
two ses are aid to be ose if hey are ess han 123 rds art and no her ase tes hem in the put ext .
to lve his hly non - vex ion lem , we use a nte rlo zed thm to uct lti - ple ate res and hen ick the one hat zes the ive ion .
at ach tep of the thm for ing a ate ure , one age is ted and its ion in the ure is ned .
hen all ges ave een ted , the ate ure is ete .
the ost ant age is ays ced rst at the ter of the ure .
to ect the ext age to add to the ure , we ake a dom ion een ing an age sed on nce or sed on ing ess nts .
to ect an age sed on nce , a ran - dom age is ted rom the ing ges , ere the ity of ing age ii is s ( kj ) and the sum - ion is ver all ing ges ij .
all hat s ( ki ) is age iis ted ase nce .
to ose an age sed on ess nts , an age is ted , mly at dom , rom the ing ges hat are ose to one of the ges ady ced .
a cal ent ent ove is sed to ove any lap een im -
the ess of ing a ate ure is ted a rge ber of mes ( tly 123 ) , and the est ure ( ith the est ive ion ) is ted as the nal ult .
nch - and - und was lso ted so hat a ial ure is ely ted if the ive unc - ion eds hat of the est ure und so far .
ure 123 ows an ple of the ure out ion oce -
to ess the ems nce , an ion ure was sed to uge the unt of ion yed by the ure ced .
the ser is own the ner - ted ure one out the nal ext , and is ked to ite own the ing of the ure in ext .
uch ser - ted ext , u , is lly red to the nal
ure 123 : the mum lue of the ive ion as a ion of the ber of ate res ted .
at ted nts , the est out und is own .
ess nts ere ( a , b ) , ( b , c ) and ( c , d ) .
ker ges pre - ent ore ant ses .
( nce ) the rge red rse ted in the ure .
( ser ) the own rse uns in the ass .
ure 123 : an ple ttp ent for ion .
nce ext , r , sed to ate the ure .
the ump - ion is hat the ser u is to r , the ter the ttp tem , use the ser ets ore ect ion out of the ure .
his ure is lar to the ame of ary .
the key to his ure is an ate ity unc - ion to are u and r .
for ple , as own in ure 123 , ume the ttp tem tes a ure rom the fer - nce nce r the rge ate - red rse rot - ted in the ure , and , ing ion , the ser ces the nce u the own rse uns in the ass .
ote ral rds are ent but lar ( i . e . , ons ) .
ons and ons can cur too .
ely , we ant two ngs sly .
on one and , the ser nce u uld ave all the rds in the nce nce r ( so ant pts are red ) .
his can be red by all ( r ) .
the ard uge ure for ext ion ( lin & ovy 123 ) is uch a all - sed ure .
on the her and , the ser nce u uld not ave too any ant rds ( ise u can ays be the ire ary , ich uld tly ver r ) .
his can be red by ion ( p ) .
the tan - ard leu ure for ine ion ( eni et al .
123 ) is uch a ion - sed ure .
nce oth all and ion are ant for uat - ing ttp ems , we ine hem and ute the tan - ard f - ore , f = 23p r / ( p + r ) .
in der to ute ion and all , we eed to ( i ) dle ( ear ) yms , and ( ii ) ene an ent een the nce and ser
we ess the nym sue by ing a ion ion hat kes a air of rds and rns a ity ure een hem .
for ple , the ion unc - ion rns 123 if the two rds are cal or are the ame
tem ( e . g . , run vs .
the ion rns a ore ess han 123 if the two rds are ous ( e . g . , ure and ass , are and rse ) .
ral net - sed ity res ist ( e . g . , ( sen , han , & zzi 123 ) ) .
the lts ted ere use a ity hat ays lly ( by a tor of 123 ) as the ber of els be - een the two rds in the net ice ses .
rds ore han ree els art ive a ion ore of 123
ing the ion ion , a edy ent al - thm was ned .
hat is , ong all nce - ser ord irs , the air ith the est ion ore is ked .
all irs ing her one of the two rds are ved , and the ure is hen ted til ord irs are ted .
in the ple in ure 123 , the ult of edy ent is own ith the med itu - ion ore of 123 for cal rds and 123 for yms .
let a ( w ) be the ion ore hed to ord w af - ter ent , and |u| and |r| be the ths of u and r , re - ely .
the oft ion , all , and f - ore , ich use ion and ent , are p = 123 a ( ui ) / |r| , f = 23p r / ( p + r ) .
for the ple in ure 123 , p = 123 / 123 , r = 123 / 123 , and the nal f - ore is 123 .
ote hat the ual ion ure res top rds in oth ces .
ser ies ere ted to ess the ttp ems per - nce in two ios : ens ook ion and ews cle ual ion .
in the rst rio , ttp was sed to uce res to ent ort xts hat ate rom gle ges of ted ens oks .
our ope is hat ttp - ted res vey as uch in - ion ent as the nal ons ted in the ens ook .
in the ond rio , we ine tps ity to ent a ual ary of a ews cle , ich is ore ive han the nal ews aph .
we ope to how hat , ile the ews aph ten cks ugh ils for a wer to ine the ain dea in the cle , ing the aph ith a ttp - ted ite ure ows the ser to and the ist of ens ook ion for the rst ser udy , the ttp tem was sed to ate 123 mly ted xts rom a rge ool of ens oks .
ese xts nge rom 123 to 123 rds and pan one or ore ces .
fig - ure 123 ows the ttp put ced for one ple ext .
ote ach ext lso has an nal ion , so ere are 123 res in all ( 123 ttp , 123 ons ) .
ers ere ked to ite a ort ext ion ( i . e . , the ser ext ) of ach of the 123 res , so we can are her the ttp ure or the ion is ter at ing the ean - ing of the nal ory ( i . e . , nce ext ) .
ute ers may be ble to ure out ich ion and ttp ure ent the ame ory , and hus may ave ore rma - ion hen ing the ter of the air .
to act his non , we yed all the ttp - ted pic - res ( in dom der ) ore all the ons ( in fer -
ose and big she had a
ure 123 : a ttp ure for the ove ext .
ote the key age ned rom age rch nts , tly , the ase oft yes .
ent dom der ) .
his lly ves the ook ons an age , nce ers ght ave red ttp pic - res of the ame ies own ore ( and hus are ble to ion ils not tly ted ) .
six nts ded 123 ort ext ons ach , ing rom a few rds to a few ces .
for ple , the ses for the ttp ure in ure 123 ere : a rls pet uts its paw on her ose .
the dog ked up to the irl and fed her .
the dog bit the irl in her ose and ran way .
the rls ose led the dog and key as hey ked way .
the irl ked her dog and saw a iry man ith a big ose .
the irl key ose lls dog paw nts .
ote hat the ual ook ion ows nly a irl sit - ing on a ofa ing a rge dog .
ile the ses for hat ure ( e . g . , the irl and her ant dog ged on the uch . ) end to be ate ons , hey lso fer tly rom the rue ext of the ory .
ost - udy , we red ach of the ser xts to the cor - ing nce ext ing the f - ore ced ear - ier .
the ter lot in ure 123 ( a ) ows the hip een f - ore sed on ttp res ( x - xis ) and f - ore sed on nal ons ( y - xis ) .
ach int pre - nts one ers ore for one of the 123 ies .
ust ver alf ( 23% ) of the nts all low the nal .
if we ver - age out ual ser ces by ing the nts for the ame ies , 23% of the ate nts all be - low the nal ( i . e . , ttp lps ate the nce ext ter in 123 of the 123 ses ) .
ged ver all ies and all ers , the f - ore sed on ttp res is 123 mes the age f - ore sed on the and - awn ons , ing hat the ttp des ers ith a ure hat eys ost ( but not ite ) as uch ion as the xts nal ion .
ews cle ual ion in the ond udy , 123 ted ess ews les ( 123 rds , lus one aph ) ere mly ted rom ent do - ins .
ere , the oal is to ate tps ity to aug - ent a ple ews oto ith ore ion
( a ) ens oks
( b ) ews les
ure 123 : ter ots ing ttp res ( x - xis ) vs .
ens ook ons or ews phs ( y - xis ) .
we rst how ach eal aph , wed by the oto - aph ext to the ttp - ted ure .
ote hat in uch a ong cle , ere ill be any lly ble ems , but the ase ion thm cts the nes ost ral to the xts ing .
to ate the nce in ion ded by the nal and ned res , the f - ore was ted ing the ers ext and the cor - ing ull cle ext .
ven the gth of the ull ext red to a cal ser nse , we ect ese res to be low , but we are nly out the nce een the ure ces .
ght nts ded 123 ser xts ach .
ure 123 ( b ) ots f - ore ing ttp pic - res ( x - xis ) sus f - ore sed on nal phs one ( y - xis ) , ere ach int nts a gle ser on a gle cle .
23% of the nts lie low the nal , and if we age ver ers , 23% of the ate nts lie low the nal .
the all age f - ore sed on ttp - ted res is 123 mes the age f - ore sed on the nal ews phs one .
his ndi - tes hat ttp ers a ual ion hat is far su - ior in ing the ews cle han its nal oto - aph .
his is to be ted , as the tos lly how nly a gle son or ene , eas the les uss any ies hat the ttp res ure .
all , ese nts how hat our ttp tem eys as uch or ore of the ent of the ext ugh the ted res , han the nal ons or pho - tos hat any the ext .
we ted a ral - ose ext - to - ure sis tem , ilt pon a rgy of ai nts ing ral age ing , ter ion and ics , and ma - ine ing .
two ser ies ely ate the ttp ems ity to ate res hat vey the ist of put ext .
the ent ork is a rst tep rds lly ing res hat lly ict ar - ary ext .
ure ork des ing ext to uce nes , ing per tic sis , and ing ons ith ion .
we lan to ate ral ttp ons , ing acy ent for ren and ion for ain - red nts .
