an application of semi - supervised learning is made to the problem of person identication in low quality webcam images .
using a set of im - ages of ten people collected over a period of four months , the person identication task is posed as a graph - based semi - supervised learning prob - lem , where only a few training images are la - beled .
the importance of domain knowledge in graph construction is discussed , and experi - ments are presented that clearly show the advan - tage of semi - supervised learning over standard supervised learning .
the data used in the study is available to the research community to encour - age further investigation of this problem .
the school of computer science at carnegie mellon uni - versity has a public lounge , where leftover pizza and other food items from various meetings converge , to the delight of students , staff , and faculty .
to help monitor the pres - ence of food in the lounge , a webcam , sometimes called the freefoodcam123 , is mounted in a coke machine and trained upon the table where food is placed .
after being spotted on the webcam , the arrival of ( almost ) fresh free food is heralded with instant messages sent throughout the school .
the freefoodcam offers interesting opportunities for re -
123http : / / www . cs . cmu . edu / coke , carnegie mellon
appearing in proc .
of the 123 st icml workshop on learning with partially classied training data , bonn , germany , 123
copy - right 123 by the author ( s ) / owner ( s ) .
search in semi - supervised machine learning .
this paper presents an investigation of the problem of person identi - cation in this low quality video data , using webcam im - ages of ten people that were collected over a period of sev - eral months .
the results highlight the importance of do - main knowledge in semi - supervised learning , and clearly demonstrate the advantages of using both labeled and unla - beled data over standard supervised learning .
in recent years , there has been a substantial amount of work exploring how best to incorporate unlabeled data into su - pervised learning ( zhu , 123 ) .
several semi - supervised learning approaches have been proposed for practical ap - plications in different areas , such as information retrieval , text classication ( nigam et al . , 123 ) , and bioinformat - ics ( weston et al . , 123; shin et al . , 123 ) .
in the context of computer vision , several interesting results have been obtained for object detection .
levin et al .
duced a technique based on co - training ( blum & mitchell , 123 ) for tting visual detectors in a way that requires only a small quantity of labeled data , using unlabeled data to improve performance over time .
rosenberg et al .
( 123 ) present a semi - supervised approach to training object de - tection systems based on self - training , and perform exten - sive experiments with a state - of - the - art detector ( schnei - derman & kanade , 123; schneiderman , 123a; schnei - derman , 123b ) demonstrating that a model trained in this manner can achieve results comparable to a model trained in the traditional manner using a much larger set of fully
in this work , we describe a new application of semi - supervised learning to the problem of person identication in webcam images , where the video stream has a low frame rate , and the images are of low quality .
signicantly , many of the images may have no face , as the person could be fac - ing away from the camera .
we discuss the creation of the
figure123
four typical freefoodcam images .
dataset , and the formulation of the semi - supervised learn - ing problem .
the task of face recognition , of course , has an extensive literature; see ( zhao et al . , 123 ) for a sur - vey .
however , to the best of our knowledge , person identi - cation in video data has not been previously attacked us - ing semi - supervised learning methods .
relatively primitive image processing techniques are used in our work; we note that more sophisticated computer vision techniques can be easily incorporated into the framework , and should only improve the performance .
but the spirit of our contribution is to argue that semi - supervised learning methods may be attractive as a complementary tool to advanced image pro - cessing .
the data we have developed and that forms the basis for the experiments reported here will be made avail - able to the research community . 123
the freefoodcam dataset
the dataset consists of 123 images with one and only one person in it .
figure 123 shows four typical images from the data .
the task is not trivial :
the images of each person were captured on multi - ple days during a four month period .
people changed
123instructions for obtaining the dataset can be found at http :
clothes , hair styles , and one person even grew a beard .
we simulate a video surveillance scenario where im - ages for a group of people are manually labeled in a few beginning frames , and the people must be recog - nized on later days .
therefore we choose labeled data within the rst day of a persons appearance , and test on the remaining images of the day and all other days .
this is much more difcult than testing only on the same day , or allowing labeled data to come from all
the freefoodcam is a low quality webcam .
each frame has 123 123 resolution so faces of far away people are small .
the frame rate is a little over 123 frames per second , and lighting in the lounge is com - plex and changing .
a person could turn their face away from the camera , and roughly one third of the images contain no face at
since only a few images are labeled , and all of the test im - ages are available , the task is a natural candidate for the application of semi - supervised learning techniques .
figure123
left : mean background image used for background subtraction .
right : breakdown of the 123 subjects by date .
data collection
we asked ten volunteers to appear in seven freefoodcam takes over four months .
not all participants could show up for every take .
the freefoodcam is located in the com - puter science lounge , but we received a live camera feed in our ofce , and took images from the camera whenever a new frame was available .
in each take , the participants took turns entering the scene , walking around , and acting naturally , for example by reading the newspaper or chatting with off - camera col - leagues , for ve to ten minutes per take .
as a result , we collected images where the individuals have varying poses and are at a range of distances from the camera .
we dis - carded all frames that were corrupted by electronic noise in the coke machine , or that contained more than one person in the scene .
this latter constraint imposed was to make the task simple to specify as a rst step; there is no reason that the methods we present below could not be extended to work with scenes containing multiple people .
foreground color extraction
to accurately capture the color information of an individual in the image , based primarily on their clothing , we had to separate him or her from the background .
as computer vision is not the focus of the work , we used only primitive image processing methods .
a simple background subtraction algorithm was used to nd the foreground .
we computed the per - pixel means and variances of red , green and blue channels from 123 background images .
figure 123 shows the mean background .
using the means and variances of the background , we ob - tained the foreground area in each image by thresholding .
pixels deviating more than three standard derivations from the mean were treated as foreground .
to improve the quality of the foreground color histogram ,
we processed the foreground area using morphological transforms ( jain , 123 ) .
further processing was required because the foreground derived from background subtrac - tion often captured only part of the body and contained background areas .
we rst removed small islands in the foreground by applying the open operation with a 123 pixel - wide square .
we then connected vertically - separated pixel blocks ( such as head and lower torso ) using the close opera - tion with a 123 - pixel - by - 123 - pixel rectangular block .
finally , we made sure the foreground contains the entire person by enlarging the foreground to include neighboring pixels by further closing the foreground with a disk of 123 pixels in radius .
and because there is only one person in each im - age , we discarded all but the largest contiguous block of pixels in the processed foreground .
figure 123 shows some processed foreground images .
after this processing the foreground area is represented by a 123 - dimensional vector , which consists of a 123 - bin hue histogram , a 123 - bin saturation histogram , and a 123 - bin
face image extraction
the face of the person is stored as a small image , which is derived from the outputs of a face detector ( schneider - man 123a; 123b ) .
note that this is not a face recognizer ( a face recognizer was not used for this task ) .
it simply de - tects the presence of frontal or prole faces , and outputs the estimated center and radius of the detected face .
we took a square area around the center as the face image .
if no face was detected , the face image is empty .
figure 123 shows a few face images as determined by the face detector .
summary of the dataset
in summary , the dataset is comprised of 123 images for ten individuals , collected during seven takes over four months .
there is a slight imbalance in the class distribu -
figure123
examples of foregrounds extracted by background subtraction and morphological transforms .
figure123
examples of face images detected by the face detector .
tion , and only a subset of individuals are present in each day ( refer to table 123 for the breakdown ) .
overall 123% of the images ( 123 out of 123 ) do not contain a face .
each image in the dataset is represented by three features :
time : the date and time the image was taken .
color histogram of processed foreground : a 123 di - mensional vector consisting of three histograms of the foreground pixels , a 123 - bin hue histogram , a 123 - bin saturation histogram , and a 123 - bin brightness his -
face image : a square color image of the face ( if present ) .
as mentioned above , this feature is missing in about 123% of the images .
the graphs
graph - based semi - supervised learning depends critically on the construction and quality of the graph .
the graph should reect domain knowledge through the similarity function that is used to assign edges ( and their weights ) .
for the freefoodcam data the nodes in the graph are the images .
an edge is formed between two images according to the following criteria :
time edges .
people normally move around in the lounge at moderate speed , thus adjacent frames are likely to contain the same person .
we represent this knowledge in the graph by putting an edge between two images if their time difference is less than a threshold t123 ( usually a few seconds ) .
neighbor 123 : time edge
neighbor 123 : color edge
neighbor 123 : color edge
neighbor 123 : color edge
neighbor 123 : face edge
figure123
a random image and its neighbors in the graph .
color edges .
the color histogram is largely deter - mined by a persons apparel .
we assume people change clothes on different days , so that the color histogram tends to be unusable across multiple days .
however , it is an informative feature during a shorter time period ( t123 ) , such as half a day .
in the graph for every image i , we nd the set of images having a time difference between ( t123 , t123 ) to i , and connect i with its kc - nearest neighbors ( in terms of cosine similarity on histograms ) in the set .
the parameter kc is a small integer , such as three .
face edges .
we use face similarity over longer time spans .
for every image i with a face , we nd the set of images more than t123 apart from i , and connect i with its kf - nearest neighbor in the set .
we use pixel - wise euclidean distance between face images , where the pair of face images is scaled to the same size .
the nal graph is the union of the three kinds of edges .
the edges are unweighted .
we used t123 = 123 seconds , t123 = 123 hours , kc = 123 and kf = 123 below .
conveniently , these parameters result in a connected graph .
it is impossible to visualize the whole graph .
instead , we show the neighbors of a random node in figure 123
we use the simple gaussian eld and harmonic function algorithm ( zhu et al . , 123 ) on the freefoodcam dataset .
let l be the number of labeled images , u the number of unlabeled images , and n = l + u .
the graph is represented the n n weight matrix w .
let d be the diagonal degree matrix with dii = pj wij , and dene the combinatorial
l = d w
let yl be an lc label matrix , where c = 123 is the number of classes .
for i = 123 .
l , yl ( i , c ) = 123 if labeled image i is in class c , yl ( i , c ) = 123 otherwise .
then the harmonic function solution for the unlabeled data is
yu = l123
where luu is the submatrix of l on unlabeled nodes and so on .
each row of yu can be interpreted as the collection of posterior probabilities p ( yi = c|yl ) for c = 123 .
c and i u .
classication is carried out by nding the class with the maximal posterior in each row .
in ( zhu et al . , 123 ) it has also been shown that incor - porating class proportion knowledge can be helpful .
the proportion qc of data with label c can be estimated from the labeled set .
in particular , the class mass normalization ( cmn ) heuristic scales the posteriors to meet the propor - tions .
that is , one nds a set of coefcients a123 ,
yu ( i , 123 ) :
: ac x
yu ( i , c ) = q123 :
figure123an example gradient walk on the graph .
the walk starts from an unlabeled image , through assorted edges , and ends at a
classication of an unlabeled point i is achieved by nding argmaxcacyu ( i , c ) .
in the experiments below we report the accuracy of both the harmonic function and cmn .
gradient walks on the graph
the harmonic algorithm described above solves a set of lin - ear equations so that the predicted label of each example is the average of the predicted labels of its unlabeled neigh - bors and the actual labels of its labeled neighbors .
the reasons for the algorithms predictions can ( roughly ) be visualized by performing a gradient walk starting from an unlabeled example i , always moving to the neighbor with the highest score given to the predicted label .
that is , let y be the predicted label for i .
if we are at node j , we will walk to js neighbor node k if
k = argmaxk123jyu ( k123 , y )
the gradient walk continues until we reach a labeled ex - ample .
two gradient walk paths are shown in figure 123 and figure 123
experimental results
we evaluated harmonic functions on the freefoodcam tasks .
for each task we gradually increased the labeled set size systematically , performed 123 random trials for each la - beled set size .
in each trial we randomly sampled a labeled set with the specied size from the rst day of a persons appearance only .
this is because we wanted to simulate
a video surveillance scenario , where people are tagged and identied on later days .
it is more difcult and more real - istic than sampling labeled data from the entire dataset .
if a class was missing from the sampled labeled set , we redid the random sampling .
the remaining images are used as the unlabeled set .
we report the classication accuracies with harmonic func - tions and cmn , on two different graphs .
the rst graph is constructed with parameters t123 = 123 seconds , t123 = 123 hours , kc = 123 , kf = 123 , the second with kc = 123
the results are presented in figure 123
to compare the graph - base semi - supervised learning meth - ods against a standard supervised learning method , we used a matlab implementation of support vector ma - chines ( gunn , 123 ) as the baseline .
for c - class multi - class problems , we used a one - against - all scheme which creates c binary subproblems , one for each class against all the other classes , and select the class with the largest margin .
because we have missing features on face sub - images , the kernel for the svm baseline requires special care .
we used an interpolated linear kernel k ( i , j ) = wtkt ( i , j ) + wckc ( i , j ) + wf kf ( i , j ) , where kt , kc , kf are linear kernels ( inner products ) on time stamp , color his - togram , and face sub - image ( normalized to 123 123 pix - if image i contains no face , we dene kf ( i , ) = 123
the interpolation weights wt , wc , wf were optimized with cross validation .
notice the svms with such kernel are not semi - supervised : the unlabeled data are merely used as test data .
we found that the harmonic
figure123an example gradient walk on the graph .
the walk starts from an unlabeled image , through assorted edges , and ends at a
function outperforms the linear kernel svm baseline ( fig - ure 123 ) .
the accuracy can be improved if we incorporate class proportion knowledge with the simple cmn heuris - tic .
the class proportion is estimated from labeled data with laplace ( add one ) smoothing .
to demonstrate the importance of using unlabeled data for semi - supervised learning , we compare the harmonic func - tion with a minimal unlabeled set of size one .
that is , for each unlabeled point xi , we remove all other unlabeled points and compute the harmonic function on the labeled data plus xi .
this becomes a supervised learning prob - lem .
the harmonic solution with only one unlabeled point is equivalent to the standard weighted nearest neighbor al - gorithm .
since the original graphs are sparse , most unla - beled points may not have any labeled neighbors .
to deal with this we instead connect xi to its kc nearest labeled neighbors in the color feature , and kf nearest neighbors in the face feature , where edges are all unweighted .
we tried various combinations of kc and kf , including those used in previous experiments .
notice we didnt use time edge at all , because it does not make sense with only one unlabeled point .
the results are shown in figure 123 ( a ) with several dif - ferent setting of kc and kf .
the accuracies are all very low .
basically this shows that no combination of color and face works if one only use the labeled data .
therefore we see that using all the unlabeled data is quite important for our semi - supervised learning approach .
in this case , rather than predicting each example to be the unweighted average of its neighbors , the prediction becomes a weighted average .
figure 123 ( b ) shows that by setting weights judiciously ( in particular , giving more em - phasis to time - edges ) one can substantially improve perfor - mance , especially on smaller samples .
a related problem is to learn the parameters for k - nearest neighbor , i . e .
kc for color edges and kf for face edges .
we are currently ex - ploring methods for learning good graph parameter settings from a small set of labeled samples .
in this paper we formulated a person identication task in low quality web cam images as a semi - supervised learning problem , and presented experimental results .
the experi - mental setup resembles a video surveillance scenario : low image quality and frame rate; labeled data is scarce and is only available on the rst day of a persons appearance; fa - cial information is not always available in the image .
our experiments demonstrate that the semi - supervised learning algorithms based on harmonic functions are capable of uti - lizing the unlabeled data to identify ten individuals with greater than 123% accuracy .
the dataset is now available to the research community .
we assigned all the edges equal weights .
a natural exten - sion is to give certain types of edges more weight than oth - ers : e . g . , perhaps give time - edges more weight than color -
we thank henry schneiderman for his help with the face detector , and ralph gross for helpful discussions on im - age processing .
we also thank the volunteers for partici -
freefoodcam , harmonic function
freefoodcam , harmonic function + cmn
labeled set size
labeled set size
( a ) harmonic function accuracy
( b ) harmonic function + cmn accuracy
figure123harmonic function and cmn accuracy on two graphs .
also shown is the svm linear kernel baseline .
( a ) the harmonic func - tion algorithm signicantly outperforms the linear kernel svm , demonstrating that the semi - supervised learning algorithm successfully utilizes the unlabeled data to associate people in images with their identities .
( b ) the semi - supervised learning algorithm classies even more accurately by incorporating class proportion knowledge through the cmn heuristic .
pating in the freefoodcam dataset collection .
this work was supported in part by the national science foundation under grants ccr - 123 and iis - 123
schneiderman , h .
( 123a ) .
feature - centric evaluation for efcient cascaded object detection .
ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) .
