ab tr cl ap ge po on im cl ta , be of di of th fe sp .
th pa sh th su ve ma ( sv ) ca ge we on di im cl pr wh th on fe ar hi di hi .
he - ta rb ke of jx y j wi a 12 an b 12 th fo k ( x; y ) = e ar ev on th cl of im ex fr th co st ph co an sh to fa ou tr po or ga ra ba fu ( rb ) ke .
mo , we ob th a si re of th im th pe of li sv to in xi ! xa su an ex th it ma th , fo th pr , a va al to rb ke .
in te co ,
ra ba fu , su ve ma .
la co of im ar be av to
th pu , fr ph co to we pa or ev vi da .
to in or re th is a ch wh is th fo of ma re pr ( fo in ib qb ( 12 ) ) .
a la pa of th re wo is de to nd su re fo th im , an re ge in co of im .
in th pa , we ch to us co hi as an im re be of th re pe th ca be ob in sp of th ex si ( 12 ) .
us th hi re , ou in go is to pe ge ob cl wi a wi ta al ap : nd th on ca of ob th is th mo li to be pr in a
fr cl tr to ne ne , th ar ma po ch fo wh cl to us .
th su ve ma ( sv ) ap is co a go ca be of it hi ge pe wi th ne to ad a pr kn , ev wh th di of th in sp is ve hi .
in , gi a se of po wh be to ei on of tw cl , a li sv nd th hy le th la po fr of po of th sa cl on th sa si , wh ma th di of ei cl fr th hy .
ac to ( 12 ) , th hy mi th ri of mi ex of th te se .
ma re ja 12 , 12 re ap 12 , 12
th au ar wi th sp an im pr se re
la , at la - re , re ba , nj 12 us .
pu it id s 12 - 12 ( 12 ) 12 - 12
th pa fo an ex ap , an it or - ga un as in be re ar ob th mo of th sv ar .
se ii pr a br in to sv .
se ii de th im re pr on co ph im .
se iv co sv an kn - ba re te wh ar in by pr wo .
fr th re , se v ex no te , by ei se th sv ke , or re th in , th pr hi im re pe wi lo co re .
su ve ma
op se hy
we gi in th se a ve br in to sv .
be a se of tr ex , ea ex be th di of th in sp , be .
th ai is to de a to a cl la by hy wh di th se of ex su th al th po wi th sa la ar on th sa si of th hy .
th am to nd
if th ex a hy sa ( 12 ) , th se is sa to be li se .
in th ca , it is al po to
i . e . , so th th di be th cl po to th
th , ( 12 ) be
am th se hy , th on fo wh th di to th cl po is ma is ca op se hy ( os ) .
si th di to th cl un co ( 12 ) .
, nd th os am to mi
is ca th ma , an th th os is th se hy wh ma th ma .
th ma ca be se as a me of th ge ab : th la th ma , th be th ge is ex to be ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
is co , mi it un li co ( 12 ) ca be ac wi la mu .
if we de
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
no ne la mu - er as wi co ( 12 ) , ou op pr am to ma
if we re
by it ma in th fe sp
an un co
th ca be ac by th us of st qu pr
on th ve
mi pr ( 12 ) ha be fo , th os th fo ex :
so of th ma -
th su ve ar th po fo wh
( 12 ) wi eq .
co th ex ( 12 ) of si fu ca th be wr as
, th hy de -
li no ca
wh th da is no li se , we in sl
( 12 ) su th
to al th po of ex th vi ( 12 ) .
th is to al mi po , pu of th va wh ha th co up bo on th nu of tr er .
th ge os is th re as th so of th fo pr :
th rs
to co ( 12 ) an
mi to co th le ca as in th se ca th pu of th se te is to co th nu of is ch by th us , a mi po .
th pa co to as a hi pe to er .
in ( 12 ) , th pe te fo mi .
wh de wi im , mo of th ti , th di of th in sp is la ( co to th si of th tr se , so th th tr da is ge li se .
co , th va
ha in th ca li im on pe .
sv tr re to x
if we ha
ne in th tr al an th ma ex us .
co , gi a sy po ke , me th ( 12 ) in us th th ex a
, th on
on a ke
sa me co ha be
ch , th tr al co of mi
an th de fu be
mu le
sv ar de fo bi cl .
wh de wi se cl , as in ob re an im cl , on ne an ap mu me .
di po in th fo .
mo th de of th sv , as in ( 12 ) ,
to in th mu le di in th qu so al .
co se bi cl : on ag on ( 12 ) ap pa co be cl , wh on ag th ot ( 12 ) co a gi cl wi al th ot pu to .
ac to a co st ( 12 ) , th ac of th me ar al th sa .
as a co , we ch th on wi th lo co , wh is on ag th
in th on ag th ot al ,
is th nu of cl .
ea hy se on cl fr th ot cl .
in th wa , we ge of th fo ( 12 ) .
th cl of , i . e . , th cl wi
is gi by
a ne po th la de fu .
we ma th as th ev po ha a si la .
ne , in im cl , an im ma be to se cl as it co is no un .
it wo be po to ma mu le mo ro , an ex it to ha mu cl pr by us er co co ( 12 ) .
th mo co ap ha no be ex in th pa .
no su ve ma
th in da is ma in a hi - di fe sp th so no ma ch a pr ( 12 ) .
in th fe sp , th os is co .
th da an it re
am th ma po fe th ca be ex fr an im , we re ou to on wh ar gl an lo - le ( th se of th im in re , ob or re is no in th sc of th pr pa ) .
ch et al . : sv fo hi - ba im cl
fo th he an
th si wa to re an im is to co it bi re .
as th si of th im in th da ar xe to fo th wi ) , th th in da fo th sv ar ve im .
ea co of th ve is as to a pi in th im .
so ma dr of th re ar it la si an it la of in wi re to tr .
fo th re , ou rs ch wa th hi re wh is de pr .
fo gr - le im an 12
co hi
in sp of th fa th th co hi te is a ve si an lo - le me , it ha sh go re in pr ( 12 ) es fo im in an re ta , wh fe ex ha to be as si an as fa as po .
sp fe ar lo , me th sp re be pa of an im ca be us .
th al en fu tr an ro in .
a co is re by a th di ve co - sp to a po in a co sp .
th le us to se th co sp an th qu st in th co sp .
as a co sp , we ch th hu - sa - va ( hs ) sp , wh is in bi wi th re ( rg ) sp .
th re fo th ch of hs is th it is wi us in th li .
hs is at in th .
it is co mo su si it se th co co ( hs ) fr th lu - mi co ( v ) an is le se to il ch .
no al th di in th hs sp co to pe di in co in a mo co wa th in th rg sp .
ho , th do no se to ma in pr .
al th ex re in th pa us th hs sp .
fo th sa of co , we ha se a fe ex an us th rg sp in of th hs sp , wh ke th ot co id : th im of th ch of th co sp on pe wa fo to be mi co to th im of th ot ex co ( ch of th ke , re of th in ) .
an ex fo th fa is th , af qu in bi , no in ab th co sp is us by th cl .
th nu of bi pe co co ha be xe to 12 , an th di of ea hi is so ex wi a sm nu of bi ha be un , bu th be re ha be re wi 12 bi .
we ha no tr to in th nu , be it is co to in .
it is pr to co th hi fr th hi sp re av .
su th im to mu re in si lo in pe .
th ma be ex by th fa th by su , th hi lo it sh pe , as pi co tu in av ( al ) .
se cl of im in th co st ph co
th co st ph co co of a se of ph di in ab 12 ca , ea on wi
12 im .
fo ou ex , th or 12 ca ha be re us tw di la ap .
in th rs on , na co , we ch to ke th ca - eg de by co .
fo th sa of co , we ch th sa su of ca as ( 12 ) , wh ar : ai sh , be , el , ti , ar ho , po be , af sp an , ch - le - ja , ba ea , mo , el , de , su - su , ni sc .
it is im to no th we ha no in on th ch ma in co : th cl we se by ( 12 ) an th ex il a cl ar th 12 im we fo in a co ca .
in ( 12 ) , so im wh we vi de in wi th re of th ca we re .
in th re re in th pa , we us al 12 im in ea ca an ke ma ob ou : se fo in , in fi .
12 , th po be al si wh is co to be an im of a po be .
wi 12 ca , th re in a da of 12 im .
no th so co ca co fr th sa ba of ph : a sy tr to cl th ma on ha to cl co an
in an at to av th po pr an to mo to a mo ge cl , we al de a se la ap , co , in wh we de ou ow se ca : ai , bi , bo , bu , sh , pe , ve .
th nu of im in ea ca va fr 12 to 12 fo a to of 12 sa .
fo ea ca im we ha - pi fr se or co ca .
fo ex , th ai ca in im of ai sh , av ph , gh je an ww - ii pl .
th re of wh is an ai is th mo ge .
ta i sh th or of th im fo ea ca .
se th ke
th de of th sv cl ar is ve si an ma re th ch of th ke ( th on ot ) .
ne , it ha to be ch ca si an in ke ca le to po pe .
th ar cu no te av to le th fo of th ke as a co , th rs ke in we bo fr th pa re li .
th ke pr be in ve
re in a cl wh ha a po de gi a ga ra ba fu ( rb ) cl .
in th ga rb ca , th nu of ce ( nu of su ve ) , th ce th ( th su ve ) , th we ar al pr au by th sv tr an gi ex re co to rb tr wi no - sv
an th th
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
co : ea ro in im fr th fo se ca : ai sh , be , ar ho , ni sc , el , ba ea ,
en by th po re ob wi
we lo at ge fo of rb ke
ca be ch to be an di in th in no se to sp .
in th ca of im as in , th be qu me .
bu as hi ar di de , mo su co fu ex , es th fu , wh ha be us ex fo hi co ( 12 ) .
we us he a sy ap
it is no kn if th ke sa me co . 12
an ob al is th
di , wh gi
a la rb
12 it is st po ap th sv tr pr to ke th do no sa me co .
wh is no lo gu is th th op hy ma so ma in a hi sp .
ch et al . : sv fo hi - ba im cl
co : ea ro in im fr th fo se ca : ti , af sp an , mo , el , de , su - ri - su , po be .
th rs se of ex ar de to ro as th pe of th af in re - ta an sv ke on ou tw co ta .
th 12 ex of co we di in 12 tr ex an 12 te ex .
th 12 ex of co we sp ev be 12 tr an te ex .
th sv er pe pa wa se to 12 , wh ca be co in mo ca as la .
ho , in th se of ex , th pa se wa fo to en fu se fo al ty of ke ex th li on .
va we se in th ca of th rb ke , th
he .
mo ri pr wi be de in th se se of ex .
ta ii sh ve si re fo bo th rb an hs hi re , an al , wi hs hi , si be be co an co
th le in pe do no ha , as no ex by us rb ke bu wi th pr ch of me wi th rb ke .
la or re th ga rb er ra fr ar 12 do
th im pe is no on du to th ch of th ap me , bu al to th go ge of
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
ha - la ca us wi th co da
er ra us th fo ke : li , po of
de 12 , ga rb , la rb an 12 rb
or hi , th ke va ar
er ra wi kn
to de th , we co so ex of im hi cl wi a k - ne ne ( kn ) al wi th di th be re .
ta ii pr th re .
as ex , th - ba sv is st ro
di is be su th
tw as go as th
we al di so ex us th pi im as in 12 im .
ex in th li to sv cl wi 12 ca , th co of th su ve se pr wa pr , of nd a hy wh ev sa is a su ve .
th er ra ne dr be 12 .
th sa da ha be us by ( 12 ) wi a de tr cl an th er ra wa ab 12 , si to th 12 er ra ob wi th tr co of an hs hi an a kn cl .
th 12 er ra rb re a ne ob wi th la or
on pa ex fo th su pe of
or la rb ke co fr th sp na of th hi re .
le us st wi an ex : in ma im , th la co in th hi ve co to th bl of th sk .
a sm sh in th co of th sk , wh do no af th na of th ob to be re ( fo in pl or bi ) re in a la
- pi bi in th hi ac fo a si un co re in th im ( wi hi ) .
a sm pi to a ch of co in th re ca mo th ne bi , re in a sl di hi .
if we as th th ne bi wa em in th
th ke ha a li ex de in th la ca , wh it ha a qu ex de in
th ga ca .
ke de ve in re
th ex pe in th pr se sh th no - ga rb ke wi ex de ra th ar le th qu ca le to re sv cl pe on im hi .
th se ex tw wa to re th de ra of rb ke .
it sh th on of th am to a si re of th in , in wh ca th us of th ke tr is no al
no - ga rb ke
we in ke of th fo
th de ra ar ze is gi by
de th va of
in th ca of ga rb ke ,
wo pr fo a sl de .
a da - ge in of rb is th th co - sp to a mi of lo de ( ge ga ) : in am to us he - ta th ca , lo th va of di .
su di ha be ob in sp re an im pe ha be ob by mo fr ( su ) ( 12 ) .
no th if we as th hi ar of di ar ze ( on a fe bi ha no va ) , de th va of ro th sa im as lo . 12
12 an ev mo ge ty of ke is k ( x; y ) = ed
da ( x; y ) =
de th va of c do no im pe as mu as de a an b , an si in th nu of su ve .
ch et al . : sv fo hi - ba im cl
co : ea ro in im fr th fo ca : ai , bi , bo , bu , sh , pe , ca .
th ch of
ha no im on me co as it
am to a ch of in va .
sa me co if an on if
( ( 12 ) pa 12 ) .
no re of th in
th ex of ea co of th in ve do no ha to be in in te of ke pr .
on ca se it as th si po no re of th in th do no af th di .
to be th ex ma im ro wi re ch in sc .
im th th hi co is ca by th pr of co co in so ob
th fo gi us
in th si of th ob by so sc fa nu of pi is mu by by th sa fa .
th qu sc ef to a mo re
- ex co lo th , wh tr al th co wh ar no ze to on ( we as th
an in ca is
ex se
to av a co ex of ke / re co , it is im to re th nu of ke we tr .
we ch th ty of rb ke : ga
ba fo co , we al ke th li sv .
ie tr on ne ne , vo .
12 , no .
12 , se 12
fo th re st in se ii . a , th on im
re we co he is th 12
ou se se of ex at to de a ri - an .
be we ar on te ou pr to ch li an rb ke , we ca re th tw ch to on , a mu re of th in da .
in th ca of rb ke , we ob ex th fu se wa al de on bo co an ha to be ch la en co
as a co , co to th di of th sp co is eq to , wh is al sm th 12 ) .
ho , rb ke st do no sp .
wi pr re of wh va to ch fo th in da , we ca se
th in da ( th di be
in th li ca , th di of th da de on th is eq to th fo th in da .
wa it is no .
th ch of ch of a mu fa if , in ( 12 ) , we re
si ex co ar ap to bo co an co
ea ca is di in th se , ea co on th of th im , us as tr , va an te se .
fo ea va of th in re , su ve ar ob fr th tr se an te re fo wh we on th va se .
th ob th be re is th us to ob a se of su ve fr bo , th tr an th va se .
ea us pi : th 12 co im co an su up to hi ve co ra fr 12 to
th we re wi
us , th op va ar 12 va in th er ra by va ra fr 12 to 12 .
th ve sp sa ra wa fo to be su fo al ke ex ga rb .
in th la ca , we
12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 .
no
th na pe re is me on th te se .
to ob mo te sa , we ap th pr th ti , ea ti wi a di te se : th nu of te sa is th to nu of da ( 12 fo co an 12 fo co ) .
on co , ea of th th tr se us 12 ex an re be 12 an 12 su ve to se on cl fr th ot .
on co , ea of th th tr se us 12 ex an re be 12 an 12 su ve to se on cl fr th ot .
th al an th so us to tr th sv we de by os ( 12 ) , ( 12 ) .
av er ra on co
ea co co to a di ke .
th fi li re th av nu of su ve re fo th fu re ( i . e . , 12 on ag th ot sv cl ) .
th ne li re th
er ra us no in re ( ex by a )
av er ra on co
pe an op de on th ma , we co th th ma ty of op we nd in ou sv cl .
fl ba oa po op su as th mu - ad or th co of th ab va of th di be tw ve co .
th is th ce op - ti of th ke do pr .
th op ca be av if bo co ar ze , bu we as th ve th co us ta mo ti th th op ca be re to a it .
th co of sq sq ro ex in th su rb ca , th nu of fl is th do fa .
in th li ca , th de fu ( 12 ) al th su ve to be li co : th is on on fl pe cl an co .
in th rb ca , th is on fl pe cl , co an su ve .
12 , th nu th be of th no by 12 ap on th ta eq th nu of su ve .
fl of th nu ar mo ca by ch in th in no
ca be co in ad .
in th su rb ca , th nu of sq is do - in .
sq is in th re fo ea co of th ke pr : pe up bo si co ca be av fo co wi va ze .
th is th nu we re
co re
we al me th co re to cl on im hi .
si th nu of cy re to
th an of th ta iv sh th fo ch th ap co to bo co an
ch et al . : sv fo hi - ba im cl
co re fo co , re as th nu of op fo th re of on ex , di by 12 12
as an , de
as de .
( co co on bo ta iv an v ) .
ha ro th sa im
fo bo , co an co , th be pe is
fo hi cl , ga rb ke ar ha be th li sv an re ar ns ( nu of su ve ) ti mo co at
su rb ke ar no be th la rb ) an ar to co ke ( pr th in : a ti - co sq ro is re fo no co of ev su ve .
fo th pr us of rb ke , me re - me ma al be an is .
a fu oa po re - re of 12 su ve , ea wi 12 co , re 12 me of me .
to 12 ma li sv a ve at so fo ma ap : it er ra is on 12 hi th th be rb - ba sv , wh it co - ta an me re ar se or of ma sm th fo th mo ef rb - ba
yi su go re , an sh th wh is im ab a hi bi is no it va , bu wh it co an pi at al .
no th in th ca , ga , la , an su rb ar ex eq .
th in sp ha 12 di : th is hi en to en fu se in th li ca .
ho , wh op fo wi th va se , a so wi tr mi wa pr ( ar 12 er on th ca of co an 12 er in th ca of
ta vi pr th cl - co ma co
to th us of th la ke on co wi ( th va yi th be re fo bo co an co ) .
th mo co co ha be bi an ai , wh is co .
in th pa , we ha sh th it is po to pu th cl pe ob on im hi to su hi le wi er ra as lo as 12 fo th cl of 12 co ca an 12 fo a mo ge se of ob .
th is ac wi an ot kn ab th ta th th fa th th in is so so of co hi or di de .
cl - co ma fo a = 12 : 12 an b = 12 : 12
fo ex , ro ( 12 ) in th on th 12 im of th ai ca , 12
ha be co cl , 12 ha be cl in bi , se in bo , fo in bu , an 12 in ve
th ex go pe is du to th su ge ab of sv in hi - di sp to th us of he - ta rb as ke an to no - ea tr ap to th hi bi va .
we di us in a rb st ho th ch of th ke af pe on hi cl , an fo la rb ke to be su to th st ga rb ke .
as a no tr of th ra fr 12 bi va , we us - ex wi do to 12
in th ca of rb ke , th lo of ha si ef , an th co in yi th
th lo of
im th pe of li sv to su an ex th it ma th a va al to rb ke , gi co pe fo a fr of th co an me re .
th su a ne st fo th us of sv wh th di of th in sp is ex hi .
ra th in ke in at ma th di ev hi , wh ma no be us , it is re to rs tr no tr of th in co in co wi li sv .
th co ma be or of ma fa an th pe co .
th wo ca be ex in se wa .
hi - le sp fe ca be ad to th hi fe .
al - lo fo th de of mu ob in a si im wo ma th cl - ba te us fo im re : an im wo be de by th li of ob it co .
hi ar us to ch ot ty of da th im , an ca be us , fo in , fo fr de ap .
it wo be in to in if th sa ty of ke br th sa ga
