abs .
dna mic - arr now per sci to scr tho of gen sim and det whe tho gen are act , hyp or sil in nor or can tis .
bec the new mic - arr dev gen bew amo of raw dat , new ana met mus be dev to sor out whe can tis hav dis sig of gen exp ove nor tis or oth typ of can tis .
in thi pap , we add the pro of sel of a sma sub of gen fro bro pat of gen exp dat , rec on dna mic - arr .
usi ava tra exa fro can and nor pat , we bui a cla sui for gen dia , as wel as dru dis .
pre att to add thi pro sel gen wit cor tec .
we pro a new met of gen sel uti sup vec mac met bas on rec fea eli ( rfe ) .
we dem exp tha the gen sel by our tec yie bet cla per and are bio rel to can .
in con wit the bas met , our met eli gen red aut and yie bet and mor com gen sub .
in pat wit leu our met dis 123 gen tha yie zer lea - one - out err , whi 123 gen are nec for the bas met to get the bes res ( one lea - one - out err ) .
in the col can dat , usi onl 123 gen our met is 123 acc , whi the bas met is onl
key : dia , dia tes , dru dis , rna exp , gen , gen sel , dna mic - arr , pro , can cla , fea sel , sup vec mac , rec fea eli
the adv of dna mic - arr tec has bro to dat ana bro pat of gen exp sim rec in a sin exp ( fod , 123 ) .
in the pas few mon , sev dat set hav bec pub ava on the int .
the dat set pre mul cha , inc a lar num of gen exp val per exp ( sev tho to ten of tho ) , and a rel sma num of exp ( a few doz ) .
the dat can be ana fro man dif vie .
the lit alr abo in stu of gen clu dis by uns lea tec ( see e . g .
eis ,
guy et al .
123 per , 123 alo , 123 ali , 123 ) .
clu is oft don alo the oth dim of the dat .
for exa , eac exp may cor to one pat car or not car a spe dis ( see e . g .
gol , 123 ) .
in thi cas , clu usu gro pat wit sim cli rec .
rec , sup lea has als bee app , to the cla of pro ( bro , 123 ) and to can cla ( gol ,
thi las pap on leu cla pre a fea stu of dia bas sol on gen exp mon .
in the pre pap , we go fur in thi dir and dem tha , by app sta - of - the - art cla alg ( sup vec mac ( bos , 123 vap , 123 ) , a sma sub of hig dis gen can be ext to bui ver rel can cla .
we mak con wit rel app tha wer dev ind , whi eit com ( fur , 123 pav , 123 ) or int ( muk , 123 cha , 123 wes , 123 ) fea sel wit
the ide of dis gen is of fun and pra int .
res in bio and med may ben fro the exa of the top ran gen to con rec dis in can res or sug new ave to be exp .
med dia tes tha mea the abu of a giv pro in ser may be der fro a sma sub of dis gen .
thi app als ill new asp of the app of sup vec ma - chi ( svm ) in kno dis and dat min .
svm wer alr kno as a too tha dis inf pat ( guy , 123 ) .
the pre app dem - str tha svm are als ver eff for dis inf fea or att ( suc as cri imp gen ) .
in a com wit sev oth gen sel met on col can dat ( alo , 123 ) we dem tha svm hav bot qua - tiv and qua adv .
our tec out oth met in cla per for sma gen sub whi sel gen tha hav pla rel to
aft for sta the pro and rev pri wor ( sec 123 ) , we pre in sec 123 a new met of gen sel usi svm .
bef tur to the exp sec ( sec 123 ) , we des the dat set und stu and pro the bas of our exp met ( sec 123 ) .
par car is giv to eva the sta sig - can of the res for sma sam siz .
in the dis sec ( sec 123 ) , we rev com com iss , con qua our fea sel met wit oth , and pro pos ext of the alg .
pro des and pri wor
cla pro
in thi pap we add cla pro whe the inp is a vec tha we cal a pat of n com whi we cal fea .
we cal f the n - dim fea spa .
in the cas of the pro at han , the fea are gen exp coe and pat cor to pat .
we lim our to two - cla cla pro
gen sel for can cla
ide the two cla wit the sym ( + ) and ( ) .
a tra set of a num of pat ( x12 , x12 , .
x ( cid : 123 ) ) wit kno cla lab ( y12 , y12 , .
y ( cid : 123 ) ) , yk ( 123 , +12 ) , is giv .
the tra pat are use to bui a dec fun ( or dis fun ) d ( x ) , tha is a sca fun of an inp pat x .
new pat are cla acc to the sig of the dec fun : d ( x ) > 123 x cla ( + ) d ( x ) < 123 x cla ( ) d ( x ) = 123 , dec bou .
dec fun tha are sim wei sum of the tra pat plu a bia are cal lin dis fun ( see e . g .
dud , 123 ) .
in our not :
d ( x ) = w x+ b ,
whe w is the wei vec and b is a bia val .
a dat set is sai to be lin sep if a lin dis fun can sep
it wit err .
spa dim red and fea sel
a kno pro in cla spe , and mac lea in gen , is to nd way to red the dim n of the fea spa f to ove the ris of ove .
dat ove ari whe the num n of fea is lar ( in our cas tho of gen ) and the num ( cid : 123 ) of tra pat is com sma ( in our cas a few doz pat ) .
in suc a sit , one can eas nd a dec fun tha sep the tra dat ( eve a lin dec fun ) but wil per poo on tes dat .
tra tec tha use reg ( see e . g .
vap , 123 ) avo ove of the dat to som ext wit req spa dim red .
suc is the cas , for ins , of sup vec mac ( svm ) ( bos , 123 vap , 123 cri , 123 ) .
yet , as we sha see fro exp res ( sec 123 ) , eve svm ben fro spa dim red .
pro on the rst few pri dir of the dat is a met com use to red fea spa dim ( see , e . g .
dud , 123 ) .
wit suc a met , new fea are obt tha are lin com of the ori fea .
one dis of pro met is tha non of the ori inp fea can be dis .
in thi pap we inv pru tec tha eli som of the ori inp fea and ret a min sub of fea tha yie bes cla per .
pru tec len the to the app tha we are int in .
to bui dia tes , it is of pra imp to be abl to sel a sma sub of gen .
the rea inc cos eff and eas of ver of the rel of sel gen .
the pro of fea sel is wel kno in mac lea .
for a rev of fea sel , see e . g .
( koh , 123 ) .
giv a par cla tec , it is con to sel the bes sub of fea sat a giv mod sel cri
guy et al .
by exh enu of all sub of fea .
for a rev of mod sel , see e . g .
( kea , 123 ) .
exh enu is imp for lar num of fea ( in our cas tho of gen ) bec of the com exp of the num of sub .
in the dis sec ( sec 123 ) , we sha go bac to thi met tha can be use in com wit ano met tha rst red the num of fea to a
per fea sel in lar dim inp spa the inv gre alg .
amo var pos met fea - ran tec are par att .
a xed num of top ran fea may be sel for fur ana or to des a cla .
alt , a thr can be set on the ran cri .
onl the fea who cri exc the thr are ret .
in the spi of str ris min ( see e . g .
vap , 123 guy , 123 ) it is pos to use the ran to den nes sub of fea f12 f12 f , and sel an opt sub of fea wit a mod sel cri by var a sin par : the num of fea .
in the fol , we com sev fea - ran alg .
fea ran wit cor coe
in the tes pro und stu , it is not pos to ach an err sep wit a sin gen .
bet res are obt whe inc the num of gen .
cla gen sel met sel the gen tha ind cla bes the tra dat .
the met inc cor met and exp rat met .
the eli gen tha are use for dis ( noi ) , but the do not yie com gen set bec gen are red .
mor , com gen tha ind do not sep wel the dat are mis .
eva how wel an ind fea con to the sep ( e . g .
can vs .
nor ) can pro a sim fea ( gen ) ran .
var cor coe are use as ran cri .
the coe use in gol ( 123 ) is den as :
wi = ( i ( + ) i ( ) ) / ( i ( + ) + i ( ) )
whe i and i are the mea and sta dev of the gen exp val of gen i for all the pat of cla ( + ) or cla ( ) , i = 123 , .
lar pos wi val ind str cor wit cla ( + ) whe lar neg wi val ind str cor wit cla ( ) .
the ori met of gol ( 123 ) is to sel an equ num of gen wit pos and wit neg cor coe .
oth ( fur , 123 ) hav bee usi the abs val of wi as ran cri .
rec , in pav ( 123 ) , the aut hav bee usi a rel coe ( i ( + ) i ( ) ) 123 / ( i ( + ) 123 + i ( ) 123 ) , whi is sim to fis dis cri ( dud , 123 ) .
wha cha fea ran wit cor met is the imp ort ass tha are mad .
eac coe wi is com wit inf abo a sin fea ( gen ) and doe not tak int acc mut inf bet fea .
in the nex sec , we exp in mor det wha suc ort ass mea .
gen sel for can cla
ran cri and cla
one pos use of fea ran is the des of a cla pre ( or cla ) bas on a pre - sel sub of fea .
eac fea tha is cor ( or ant - cor ) wit the sep of int is by its suc a cla pre , alb an imp one .
thi sug a sim met of cla bas on wei vot : the fea vot pro to the cor coe .
suc is the met bei use in gol ( 123 ) .
the wei vot sch yie a par lin dis cla :
d ( x ) = w ( x )
whe w is den in eq .
( 123 ) and = ( ( + ) + ( ) ) / 123
it is int to rel thi cla to fis lin dis .
suc a cla is
als of the for of eq .
( 123 ) , wit
whe s is the ( n , n ) wit cla sca mat den as
( x ( + ) ) ( x ( + ) ) t +
( x ( ) ) ( x ( ) ) t
and whe is the mea vec ove all tra pat .
we den by x ( + ) and x ( ) the tra set of cla ( + ) and ( ) .
thi par for of fis lin dis imp tha s is inv .
thi is not the cas if the num of fea n is lar tha the num of exa ( cid : 123 ) sin the the ran of s is at mos ( cid : 123 ) .
the cla of gol ( 123 ) and fis cla are par sim in thi for if the sca mat is app by its dia ele .
thi app is exa whe the vec for by the val of one fea acr all tra pat are ort , aft sub the cla mea .
it ret som val if the fea are unc , tha is if the exp val of the pro of two dif fea is zer , aft rem the cla mea .
app s by its dia ele is one way of reg it ( mak it inv ) .
but , in pra , fea are usu cor and the the dia app is not val .
we hav jus est tha the fea ran coe can be use as cla wei .
rec , the wei mul the inp of a giv cla can be use as fea ran coe .
the inp tha are wei by the lar val inu mos the cla dec .
the , if the cla per wel , tho inp wit the lar wei cor to the mos inf fea .
thi sch gen the pre one .
in par , the exi man alg to tra lin dis fun tha may pro a bet fea ran tha cor coe .
the alg inc fis lin dis , jus men , and svm tha are the sub of thi pap .
bot met are kno in sta as mul cla , whi mea tha the are opt dur tra to han mul var ( or fea ) sim .
the met of gol ( 123 ) , in con , is a com of mul
guy et al .
fea ran by sen ana
in thi sec , we sho tha ran fea wit the mag of the wei of a lin dis cla is a pri met .
sev aut hav sug to use the cha in obj fun whe one fea is rem as a ran cri ( koh , 123 ) .
for cla pro , the ide obj fun is the exp val of the err , tha is the err rat com on an inn num of exa .
for the pur of tra , thi ide obj is rep by a cos fun j com on tra exa onl .
suc a cos fun is usu a bou or an app of the ide obj , cho for con and efc rea .
hen the ide to com the cha in cos fun d j ( i ) cau by rem a giv fea or , equ , by bri its wei to zer .
the obd alg ( lec , 123 ) app d j ( i ) by exp j in tay ser to sec ord .
at the opt of j , the rst ord ter can be neg ,
d j ( i ) = ( 123 / 123 )
the cha in wei dwi = wi cor to rem fea i .
the aut of the obd alg adv usi d j ( i ) ins of the mag of the wei as a wei pru cri .
for lin dis fun who cos fun j is a qua fun of cla ( dud , 123 ) wit cos fun j = ( cid : 123 ) wi the two cri are equ .
thi is the cas for exa of the mea - squ - err ( cid : 123 ) w x y ( cid : 123 ) 123 and lin svm ( bos , 123 vap , 123 cri , 123 ) , whi min j = ( 123 / 123 ) ||w , und con .
thi jus the use of ( wi ) 123 as a fea ran cri .
rec fea eli
a goo fea ran cri is not nec a goo fea sub ran cri .
the cri d j ( i ) or ( wi ) 123 est the eff of rem one fea at a tim on the obj fun .
the bec ver sub - opt whe it com to rem sev fea at a tim , whi is nec to obt a sma fea sub .
thi pro can be ove by usi the fol ite pro tha we cal rec fea
tra the cla ( opt the wei wi wit res to j ) .
com the ran cri for all fea ( d j ( i ) or ( wi ) 123 ) .
rem the fea wit sma ran cri .
