abs we stu the use of sup vec mac ( svm ) in cla e - mai as spa or non by com it to thr oth cla alg : rip , roc , and boo dec tre .
the fou alg wer tes on two dif dat set : one dat set whe the num of fea wer con to the 123 bes fea and ano dat set whe the dim was ove 123
svm per bes whe usi bin fea .
for bot dat set , boo tre and svm had acc tes per in ter of acc and spe .
how , svm had sig les tra tim .
ind ter boo alg , cla , e - mai , fea -
tur rep , rip , roc , sup vec mac .
we def spa as an e - mai mes tha is un -
wan it is the ele ver of jun mai tha is del by the pos ser .
one of the rea for the pro of spa is tha bul e - mai is ver che to sen and alt it is pos to bui lte tha rej e - mai if it is fro a kno spa , it is eas to obt alt sen add .
goo onl sou and inf abo spa inc htt : / / spa . abu . net , htt : / / www . cau . org , and htt : / / www . jun - mai . org .
the hav bee var att to use lea mac tha cla e - mai ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
sol to the pro of spa are eit tec or reg ( 123 ) .
tec sol inc lte bas on sen add or hea con .
the pro wit lte is tha som a val mes may be blo .
thu , it is not our int to aut rej e - mai tha is cla as spa .
rat , we env the fol sce : in the tra mod , use wil mar the e - mai as eit spa or non .
aft a nit num of exa are col , the lea mac wil be tra and the per on new exa pre .
the use can the inv the e - mai cla imm or wai unt the num of exa is eno suc tha per is acc .
aft the tra mod is com , new e - mai wil be cla as spa or non .
in one pre mod , a set of new e - mai mes is pre in a man con wit the tim of del and the spa mes col - cod .
it is the up to the use to eit rea the e - mai or tra the e - mai .
an alt pre mod is to del e - mai to the use in dec ord of pro tha the e - mai is non .
tha is , e - mai wit hig pro ( acc to
man rec jan 123 , 123 rev apr 123 , 123
dru is wit at& lab - res , red ban , nj 123 usa , and is als wit the dep of ele eng , mon uni , wes lon bra , nj 123 - 123 usa .
wu is wit ren pol ins , tro , ny1 usa .
vap is wit at& lab - res , red ban , nj , 123 usa .
pub ite ide s 123 - 123 ( 123 ) 123 - 123
the cla ) of bei non is at the top of the lis .
in eit of the mod , the lte doe not rej any mes , onl ind whe the mes has a hig pri of bei
it is hig des tha if the use dec tha e - mai mes be ran - ord by deg of con tha the ran ord be rel .
by rel , we mea tha the use can eit sta at the top of the lis of e - mai mes and be fai con tha the rep non mes or sta at the bot of the lis and be con tha the mes are spa .
it is onl nea the mid of the lis ( low con ) tha it is rea to the use tha a few non or spa mes may be mis .
the , it is imp tha our lea alg not onl cla the mes cor but tha a mea of con is ass wit tha cla so tha the mes can be
in the nex sec a num of des cho are out .
in sec iii we des the dat set and exp .
in sec iv , we sho how var of the one par in svm cha per .
the con are pre in sec v .
des cho
fea rep
a fea is a wor .
in the dev bel ,
is a fea vec tha is com of the to a wor , var wor fro a dic for by ana the doc .
the is one fea vec per mes .
to a wei vec usu obt fro som com s .
the are var alt and enh in
vec .
we con som of the :
tft fre : the th com of the fea app in tha vec is the num of tim tha wor doc .
in our cas , a wor is a fea onl if it occ in thr or mor doc .
( thi pre mis wor and wor use rar fro app in the dic ) .
som the fea vec is nor to uni len .
tf - idf use the abo tf mul by the idf ( inv doc fre ) .
the doc fre ( df occ in all the is the num of tim tha wor doc ( exc wor tha occ in les tha thr doc ) .
the inv doc fre ( idf ) is
dru et al . : svm for spa cat
is the num of doc .
typ , the fea vec tha con of the tf - idf ent is nor to uni len .
bin rep whi ind whe a par wor occ in a par doc .
a wor is a can onl if it occ in thr or mor doc .
use of a sto lis in add to any of the abo : wor lik of , and , the , etc . , are use to for a sto lis .
wor on the sto lis are not use in for a fea vec .
the rat for thi is tha com wor are not ver use in cla .
the arg aga usi a sto lis is tha it is not obv whi wor , bey the tri , sho be on the sto lis .
it may be obv tha art lik a , an , sho be on the sto lis .
how , sho a wor lik now be on the sto lis ? the cho of wor to put on a sto lis is pro a fun of the cla tas and it wou be bet if lea alg its det whe a par wor is imp or not .
use of wor ste : wor suc as bui , bui , and bui are sho to the wor ste bui .
thi low the siz of the fea vec but it may be the cas tha cer for of a wor ( suc as the act ten ) may be imp in
num of fea
the cho is bet usi som of the fea or all of the fea .
in tex rec , a fea is a wor .
one pos adv of usi a nit num of fea is bet gen .
by gen we mea tha goo per - man on the tra set gen to goo per on a sep tes set .
dep on the lea alg , it may be the cas tha the is an opt set of fea , les tha the tot num of ava fea .
for exa , if the dim of the cla spa is gre tha the num of exa , the the exa may alw be sep by a non hyp wit zer tra err ( ass the pat are ind ) .
sin the are , in gen , an inn num of sep hyp , one doe not obt the opt sep hyp ( the one tha has the bes tes per ) .
a few of the mec des to nd the opt num of fea ( and the bes fea ) are ( 123 ) doc fre thr , inf gai , mut inf , .
in com two lea alg , ter str , and yan and pet fou tha , exc for mut inf gai , all the fea sel met had sim per - man and sim cha .
tha is , as the num of fea use was dec fro all the fea to som sma num , the tes per imp .
the , onc the num of fea dec bel a cri val , the tes err rat inc .
tho joa ( 123 ) did sim exp and com - par ve lea alg inc nav bay , roc , - nea nei , c12 ( 123 ) and svm .
he fou tha , exc for svm and bay , the opt num of fea was les tha the tot num of fea .
for svm , usi
all the fea gav bet per tha any of the oth
the mai dis of sea for the bes fea is tha it req add tim in the tra alg .
in the cas of inf gai and mut inf gai , the fea are ran by the fea sel met fro hig to low , whi is lin in the num of exa and lin in the num of fea ( giv qua com ) .
the , to nd the opt num of fea , one mus app the lea alg to dif set siz to nd the min err rat .
thu the com of the alg to nd the opt num of fea is at lea qua tim the com of the lea alg .
it wou be far bet if the lea mac its eit mad the fea sel aut or use all the fea .
c12 has the for cha whi svm hav the lat .
per cri
rec and pre : in inf ret tas , doc - men cou be ass mul cat .
for ins , a sto abo the hig wag of bas pla cou be cat as bel to bot the ter nan and the ter spo .
whe the are mul cat , per mea suc as rec and pre ( 123 )
cat fou and cor
tot cat cor
cat fou and cor
tot cat fou
sin our pro is a two - cla cla tas , rec and pre are not nee her .
err rat : err rat is the typ per mea for two - cla cla sch .
how , two lea - ing alg can hav the sam err rat , but the one whi gro the err nea the dec bor is the
fal ala and mis rat : we den the fal ala
and mis rat as
fal ala rat
non sam mis
tot non exa spa sam mis
tot spa exa
the adv of the fal ala and mis rat is tha tha the are a goo ind of whe the err are clo to the dec bor or not .
giv two cla wit the sam err rat , the one wit low fal ala and mis rat is the bet one .
we x the mis rat and try to nd the alg tha min the fal ala rat for tha xed mis rat .
the rat wil cor to the err rat ave usi ten - fol cro val .
in ten - fol cro val , the ent set of exa is div int ten app equ set .
nin of the ten par are usi for tra , one of the ten par is use for tes .
thi is rep ten tim , eac tim usi ano tes set .
the tot mis and fal ala are cou and div by ten tim the num of tes exa
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
is mor acc tha ave the ten fal ala and mis
rec tha tha eve if an inp mes is mis mis as spa whe it is not , it is sti pre to the use for the ult dec .
tra and cla spe
the e - mai ser may be a uni on whi man use hav an acc .
the , the tra tim mus be rea and the cla spe mus be fas .
gen , thi lea out neu net whi tak ext tim for tra .
we the tri the fol fou alg : boo ( usi dec tre ) , rip , roc , and lin svm .
the rst two are non lea alg but can be ver fas in exe and the las two are lin .
cho of lea alg
123 ) boo alg : the boo alg ( fig .
123 ) are tec to com a num of wea lea to for an ens .
the ter wea lea arr fro the pac ( pro app cor ) ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) lea com and ind tha the lea alg can lea wit err rat sli bet tha 123 .
c12 cla tre are can wea lea eve tho the err rat can be muc bet tha 123 .
thi ver of boo wor as fol : tra the rst mem of the ens wit tra sam .
in ord to tra the nex mem of the ens , the pro tha a tra sam wil be pic to tra the sec mem of the ens is adj upw for har exa and dow for eas exa .
by har exa , we mea tho exa tha the rst wea
eac mem of the ens is sub tra on exa pic fro the ori tra set wit the pro adj upw or dow dep on whe the pre mem of the ens cla the tra pat inc or cor , res .
for our wea lea , we use cla tre bui usi a ver of c12 .
bec cla tre can bui dis - con dec reg , the are non .
cla tre can be ver fas in exe .
an adv of c12 is tha fea are pic as par of the tra alg and the the is no nee to ran ord the fea by som oth mec ( lik mut inf ) rst .
c12 dec tre are bui by exa a mea rel to inf gai and thi can be tim con bec it has to be don mul tim ( equ to the num of nod in a tre ) .
boo has bee sho to dri the err rat far bel tha of one wea lea .
bot the boo alg its and the bui of dec tre mak tra lon unl the is a sma num of tre in the ens .
how , the is no way to pre in adv how man tre sho be in
in fig .
123 wea ref in our cas to a c12 typ alg .
whe the dis is rec , a typ met of pic a tra set for thi mem of the ens is as fol .
boo alg .
con lin seg of len
wit tot len num at ran fro tha tot len .
if the num is fro int use as one of the tra sam for tha rou of boo .
it may be the cas tha mul cop of a par vec are use in tra and no sam of eas tra exa
, the exa
it is als imp to not tha in cal
, all the tra exa are use in tha cal eve if the wer all not use in tra .
123 ) sup vec mac : svm are dis ext - siv in thi iss .
als see ( 123 ) ( 123 ) .
the key con the are two cla , lab tra exa : is the dim -
to use are the fol :
, and the are
ali of the vec .
if the two cla are lin sep , the one can nd an is min and
opt wei vec
dru et al . : svm for spa cat
tra exa tha sat the equ are ter sup vec .
the sup vec den two hyp , one tha goe thr the sup vec of one cla and one goe thr the sup vec of the oth cla .
the dis bet the two hyp den a mar ( 123 ) and thi mar is max whe the nor of the wei is min .
vap has sho we may per thi min by max the fol fun wit res to the var
sub to the con :
rep the dot pro
sup vec .
for an unk vec cor to ndi
whe it is ass the is one of the tra vec , and is ter a
and the sum is ove the
non sup vec ( who
the adv of the lin rep is tha
be cal aft tra and cla amo to com the dot pro of thi opt wei vec wit the inp vec .
for the non cas , tra err are all and
we now mus min
sub to the con
is qua in
but the con is now
is a sla var and all tra exa to exi in the reg bet the two hyp tha go thr the sup poi of the two cla .
we can equ con and may be sol usi qua pro tec , som of whi are par to svm ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) .
the adv of lin svm is tha exe spe is ver fas and the are no par to tun exc the .
we wil sho tha the per of the svm is rem ind of the cho of is lar ( ove 123 ) .
ano adv of svm is tha the are rem int of the rel siz of the num of tra exa of the two cla .
in mos lea alg , if the are man mor exa of one cla tha ano , the alg wil ten to cor cla the
as lon as
cla wit the lar num of exa , the dri dow the err rat .
sin svm are not dir try to min the err rat , but try to sep the pat in hig dim spa , the res is tha svm are rel ins to the rel num of eac cla .
for ins , new exa tha are far beh the hyp do not cha the sup vec .
the pos dis of svm are tha the tra tim can be ver lar if the are lar num of tra exa and exe can be slo for non svm , nei of the cas bei pre her .
123 ) rip : rip is a pro for ind cla rul fro a set of exa .
unl the oth alg , it doe not nee a fea vec .
it for ift rul whi are dis of con , e . g . ,
is con to be spa if and onl if
( wor fre app in ) or ( wor low app in and wor cos app in ) ( wor ! ! ! ! app in ) .
rip ( 123 ) wor by add rul to cov pos exa - ple and the pru tho rul to for a bes t to a sep pru set .
the adv of rip are as fol .
the ift cla are eas for hum to und .
rip is ver fas in tra and tes .
rip all use to sup pri kno con -
rip all val to be nom , con , or set -
rip is non .
123 ) roc : thi typ of cla ( 123 ) , ( 123 ) use nor - ize tf - idf rep of the tra vec .
a pro
ind the num of doc tha are cla as spa or non .
ele of the pro vec tha are is nor to uni len .
neg are set to zer and the cla is per by the dot pro of the pro vec and the can tes vec .
tho wit lar pos dot pro are spa and tho wit lar neg val are non .
unl any of the alg dis pre , the is no nat thr for the dot pro .
tha is , the alg doe not tel us for wha val abo a cri val of the dot pro sho we cla the doc as spa .
thi cri val mus be obt by ran ord the out of dot pro of the pro vec wit all the tra vec and ndi tha cri val tha min the tra err .
we emp tha the tes vec sho not be use to nd tha thr .
sim , the opt val sho not be obt fro the tes set .
it sho be obt fro the tra set and it is tha the tra err .
the adv of roc alg is tha it is fas in tra and tes .
the dis is tha
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
for dat set i , fal ala rat cor to a 123 mis rat .
x ind tha rip was una to
obt the 123 mis rat for the two dat set and thu no fal ala or err rat are rep
one has to sea for the opt thr and the opt on the tra set whi tak ext tra tim and doe
not nec gen wel to the tes set .
fur tex cat met may be fou in ( 123 )
dat set
we use two dat set .
dat set i was col by an at& sta mem and con of 123 mes tha he con spa and 123 mes tha wer non .
all e - mai mes con of a sub and bod and the var alg wer tri on eit the sub alo , the bod alo , or the sub and bod tog .
in add , a sto lis was eit use or not use and all wor wer con to low cas .
the 123 bes fea in eac cas wer use ( ran usi mut inf ) .
the ori fea ent are tf ( ter fre ) and cou lat be con to tf - idf or bin fea .
thu the wer six dat set con fro the ori
bod fro the bod onl wit usi a
bod fro the bod onl and the sto lis was
sub fro the sub and bod wit
usi a sto lis
sub fro the sub and bod usi a
sub for the sub wit usi a sto
sub fro the sub usi a sto lis .
res are sho in tab i .
it can the be see tha the sma err rat are giv by usi the sub and bod wit usi a sto lis ( sub ) and tha svm sho be use wit bin fea .
to put the err rat in con , it sho be not tha the tes sam siz is 123 and thu a dif of app 123 can be att to a num dif of one err per run of the ten - fol cro val err rat est .
thu the is not muc dif on sub bet svm usi bin fea and boo .
it sho be emp tha the spa lte wil nev act rej any mes cla as spa .
the use of the fal ala and mis rat is a mec to
the sec dat set was col fro mem of the at& tec sta who for the spa and non
err and fal ala rat for dat set ii usi a dic con of upp and low wor
err and fal ala rat for dat set ii usi a dic con of low wor onl
to the aut .
sin the spa had alr pas thr the at& rew , it wou be exp tha the spa wou be har to cla .
the wer 123 spa and 123 non mes .
rat tha lim the fea vec to a nit siz we use all wor in the mes as lon as the occ in at lea thr mes .
fur , ste was not use .
rip was una to ach eit a 123 or 123 mis rat .
thi dat set had two ver .
in ver i ( tab ii ) , wor tha wer all cap wer ret but wor tha wer a mix of upp and low cas wer tra to low cas .
the rat for thi is tha we cou con tha wor lik fre wou mor lik to occ in spa tha wor lik fre .
thu , the two wor wou be two sep fea in thi ver of the dat .
fur the wor fre if it occ in the sub at lea thr tim and the bod at lea thr tim wou be two sep fea .
the net res is tha the fea vec of ver i was of siz
onc aga , use of bin fea is pre for svm and boo giv app equ per if per is bas on raw err rat .
wit app 123 mes in the tes set , one err cor to a num dif of 123 123
as poi out pre , the fal ala rat giv a mea of dis of the err .
the , on thi bas alt boo and svm usi bin fea are com in err rat per , svm is muc bet in ter of dis of err .
dru et al . : svm for spa cat
err , fal ala , and mis rat for dat set ii usi
a dic con of low wor onl
err and fal ala rat as a fun of the upp bou c for bin dat usi low wor onl
in ver ii of thi dat set , all wor wer con to low cas whi low the dim to 123
the res for thi dat set are sho in tab iii .
fir , in com tab ii and iii , we see tha the is no adv in kee wor tha are all upp cas .
sec , it app tha onc aga , it is bet to use bin fea wit svm mac .
fin , alt boo has the bet per in ter of raw err rat , the spr of err is bet usi svm wit bin fea .
ope poi oth tha the fal ala rat due to a xed mis rat may be of int .
the , in tab iv , we pre the mis rat due a xed fal ala rat and the ope poi whe the fal ala rat and mis rat are equ ( las col ) .
the res are con wit the con rea pre , nam tha boo is sup in ter of tes err rat but tha svm is bet in ter of the spr of err .
the run tim for tra and tes hav not bee opt for eit boo mac or svm .
how , sin the svm onl has to exe one dot pro , it wou be exp to be fas tha boo c12 dec tre .
bot hav acc spe , in the ord of mil for boo dec tre and mic for svm .
thi doe not inc the tim to par a mes to bui up its fea set .
how , the is a rem dif in tra tim for tre aga tha of svm .
in our res ver of the alg , boo tre tak hou to tra and svm , in the ord of min .
the ave tre siz for thi dat is app 123 tre whi tak ino lon to bui .
thu bas on a com of tra tim and per , svm are sup .
the are two rea we bel tha the tra tim for svm wit bin fea can be red .
the rst is tha the vec are bin and the sec is tha the fea vec are spa ( typ onl 123 of a vec is non ) .
thi all the dot pro in the svm opt to be rep wit fas non rou .
per as a fun of upp bou the upp bou
aff per for the cas whe the tra dat is not sep by a lin svm .
in gen the is an opt val of thi con .
how , can be obt be exa the thi bes val of tra dat and it is unf to do so by exa the tes dat .
onl by hav a thi set of dat , a val set , wou it be
err and fal ala rat as a fun of the upp
bou c for tf dat usi low wor onl
pos to opt for
in tha cas , one wou max usi the tra set , and the nd the per on the val set .
the one wou pic ano unt the per on the val set is opt .
one cou the use the tes set to nd the nal per .
eve if we had the lux of usi a val set , thi ite pro wou tak too lon .
how , it is ill to see wha hap if we tun usi the tes dat ( tab v and vi ) .
we see tha as
is dec , the num of sup vec inc and the num of the sup vec tha hav max inc .
how , for the bin cas , the per deg whi for the tf fea cas , the per imp and the is low .
the res see to ind tha one can obt alm equ per by usi the on the tf for dat .
how , in tha cas we mus spe tim sea for tha opt , whi for the bin fea , tha is not the cas .
fur , the is a tha giv equ per on the wid var in
bas on exa a num of dat set , dif fea rep , and dif lea alg , we com to the fol con .
123 ) for the bes cas ( all wor con to low cas ) , svm ( usi bin fea ) and boo ( usi tf fea ) are the two bes can .
boo has a low err rat but the dis of err is bet
iee tra on neu net , vol .
123 , no .
123 , sep 123
123 ) in a cho of bet usi a sto lis and not usi a
sto lis , it is pre tha a sto lis not be use .
123 ) bas on a rev of the lit , all the fea sho be use rat tha a sub .
the lit see to ind tha the is an opt set of fea tha dep on bot the dat and the alg .
how , sea for the bes fea tak an una per of tim .
boo usi c12 dec tre imp use a cho of bes fea as par of the alg and svm per doe not deg if too man fea are use .
123 ) tra tim usi boo dec tre is ino -
it sho be rem tha the per gur are bas on dat set col fro dif ind .
whe an ind mar his or her own e - mai , the the fro eld of the mes can be use .
thi can imp the acc in at lea two way : the use can gen a lis of acc sen tha is alw not as non no mat wha the sub and bod con .
fur , ret e - mai tha is a res to a use que wil alw be acc as non .
