abs .
the sup - vec net is a new lea mac for two - gro cla pro .
the mac con imp the fol ide : inp vec are non - lin map to a ver hig - dim fea spa .
in thi fea spa a lin dec sur is con .
spe pro of the dec sur ens hig gen abi of the lea mac .
the ide beh the sup - vec net was pre imp for the res cas whe the tra dat can be sep wit err .
we her ext thi res to non - sep tra dat .
hig gen abi of sup - vec net uti pol inp tra is dem - str .
we als com the per of the sup - vec net to var cla lea alg tha all too par in a ben stu of opt cha rec .
key : pat rec , eff lea alg , neu net , rad bas fun cla ,
mor tha 123 yea ago r . a .
fis ( fis , 123 ) sug the fir alg for pat rec .
he con a mod of two nor dis pop , n ( m12 , ei ) and n ( m12 , e12 ) of n dim vec x wit mea vec m12 and m12 and co - var mat e12 and e12 , and sho tha the opt ( bay ) sol is a qua dec
in the cas whe e12 = e12 = e the qua dec fun ( 123 ) deg to a lin
to est the qua dec fun one has to det " ( " +12 ) fre par .
to est the lin fun onl n fre par hav to be det .
in the cas whe the num of obs is sma ( say les tha 123 ) est o ( n12 ) par is not rel .
fis the rec , eve in the cas of ei ^ 123 , to use the lin dis fun ( 123 ) wit of the for :
whe t is som con
fis als rec a lin dec fun for the cas whe the two dis are not nor .
alg for pat rec
cor and vap
fig 123
a sim fee - for per wit 123 inp uni , 123 lay of hid uni , and 123 out uni .
the gra - sha of the vec ent ref the num val .
wer the fro the ver beg ass wit the con of lin dec -
in 123 ros ( ros , 123 ) exp a dif kin of lea mac : per or neu net .
the per con of con neu , whe eac neu imp a sep hyp , so the per as a who imp a pie lin sep sur .
see fig
no alg tha min the err on a set of vec by adj all the wei of the net was fou in ros ' s tim , and ros sug a sch whe onl the wei of the out uni wer ada .
acc to the fix set of the oth wei the inp vec are non - lin tra int the fea spa , z , of the las lay of uni .
in thi spa a lin dec fun is con :
by adj the wei ai fro the ith hid uni to the out uni so as to min som err mea ove the tra dat .
as a res of ros ' s app , con of dec rul was aga ass wit the con of lin hyp in som
an alg tha all for all wei of the neu net to ada in ord loc to min the err on a set of vec bel to a pat rec pro was fou in 123 ( rum , hin & wil , 123 , 123 par , 123 lec , 123 ) whe the bac - pro alg was dis .
the sol inv a sli mod of the mat mod of neu .
the , neu net imp " pie - wis lin - typ " dec fun .
in thi art we con a new typ of lea mac , the so - cal sup - vec net .
the sup - vec net imp the fol ide : it map the inp vec int som hig dim fea spa z thr som non - lin map cho a pri .
in thi spa a lin dec sur is con wit spe pro tha ens hig gen abi of the net .
fig 123
an exa of a sep pro in a 123 dim spa .
the sup vec , mar wit gre squ , def the mar of lar sep bet the two cla .
exa .
to obt a dec sur cor to a pol of deg two , one can cre a fea spa , z , whi has n = 123 coo of the for :
whe x = ( x\ , . . . , xn ) .
the hyp is the con in thi spa .
two pro ari in the abo app : one con and one tec .
the con - cep pro is how to fin a sep hyp tha wil gen wel : the dim - sio of the fea spa wil be hug , and not all hyp tha sep the tra dat wil nec gen wel
the tec pro is how com to tre suc hig - dim spa : to con pol of deg 123 or 123 in a 123 dim spa it may be nec to con hyp in a bil dim
the con par of thi pro was sol in 123 ( vap , 123 ) for the cas of opt hyp for sep cla .
an opt hyp is her def as the lin dec fun wit max mar bet the vec of the two cla , see fig .
it was obs tha to con suc opt hyp one onl has to tak int acc a sma amo of the tra dat , the so cal sup vec , whi det thi mar .
it was sho tha if the tra vec are sep wit err by an opt hyp the exp val of the pro of com an err on a tes exa is bou by the rat bet the exp val of the num of sup vec and the num of tra vec :
cor and vap
not tha thi bou doe not exp con the dim of the spa of sep .
it fol fro thi bou , tha if the opt hyp can be con fro a sma num of sup vec rel to the tra set siz the gen abi wil be hig in an inf dim spa .
in sec 123 we wil dem tha the rat ( 123 ) for a rea lif pro can be as low as 123 and the opt hyp gen wel in a bil dim fea spa .
be the opt hyp in fea spa .
we wil sho , tha the wei w12 for the opt hyp in the fea spa can be wri as som lin com of
the lin dec fun / ( z ) in the fea spa wil acc be of the for :
whe zi - z is the dot - pro bet sup vec zi and vec z in fea spa .
the dec fun can the be des as a two lay net ( fig
how , eve if the opt hyp gen wel the tec pro of how to tre the hig dim fea spa rem .
in 123 it was sho ( bos , guy , & vap , 123 ) , tha the ord of ope for con a dec fun can be int : ins of mak a non - lin tra of the inp vec fol - low by dot - pro wit sup vec in fea spa , one can fir com two vec in inp spa ( by e . g .
tak the dot - pro or som dis mea ) , and the mak a non - lin tra of the val of the res ( see fig .
thi en - abl the con of ric cla of dec sur , for exa pol dec sur of arb deg .
we wil cal thi typ of lea mac a sup - vec
the tec of sup - vec net was fir dev for the res cas of sep tra dat wit err .
in thi art we ext the app of sup - vec net to cov whe sep wit err on the tra vec is imp .
wit thi ext we con the sup - vec net as a new cla of lea mac , as pow and uni as neu net .
in sec 123 we wil dem how wel it gen for hig deg pol dec sur ( up to ord 123 ) in a hig dim spa ( dim 123 ) .
the per of the alg is com to tha of cla lea mac e . g .
lin cla , ^ - nea nei cla , and neu net .
sec 123 , 123 , and 123 are dev to the maj poi of the der of the alg and a dis of som of its pro .
det of the der are rel to an app .
fig 123
cla by a sup - vec net of an unk pat is con don by fir tra - for the pat int som hig - dim fea spa .
an opt hyp con in thi fea spa det the out .
the sim to a two - lay per can be see by com to fig
opt hyp
in thi sec we rev the met of opt hyp ( vap , 123 ) for sep of tra dat wit err .
in the nex sec we int a not of sof mar , tha wil all for an ana tre of lea wit err on the tra set .
the opt hyp alg
the set of lab tra pat
is sai to be lin sep if the exi a vec w and a sca b suc tha the ine
cor and vap
fig 123
cla of an unk pat by a sup - vec net .
the pat is in inp spa com to sup vec .
the res val are non - lin tra .
a lin fun of the tra val det the out of the cla .
are val for all ele of the tra set ( 123 ) .
bel we wri the ine ( 123 ) in the
the opt hyp
is the uni one whi sep the tra dat wit a max mar : it det the dir w / |w| whe the dis bet the pro of the tra vec of two dif cla is max , rec fig .
thi dis p ( w , b ) is giv by
the opt hyp ( w12 , b12 ) is the arg tha max the dis ( 123 ) .
it fol fro ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) tha
thi mea tha the opt hyp is the uni one tha min w w und the con ( 123 ) .
con an opt hyp is the a qua pro
vec xi for whi yi ( w x , + 123 ) = 123 wil be ter sup vec .
in app a .
123 we sho tha the vec wq tha det the opt hyp can be wri as a lin com of tra vec :
whe a > 123
sin a > 123 onl for sup vec ( see app ) , the exp ( 123 ) rep a com for of wri w12
we als sho tha to fin the vec of par
one has to sol the fol qua pro pro :
wit res to ar = ( a 123 , . . . , at ) , sub to the con :
whe 123 = ( 123 , . . . , 123 ) is an - dim uni vec , yr = ( yi sio vec of lab , and d is a sym i x ^ - mat wit ele
y^ ) is the - dim -
the ine ( 123 ) des the non qua .
we the hav to max the qua for ( 123 ) in the non qua , sub to the con ( 123 ) .
whe the tra dat ( 123 ) can be sep wit err we als sho in app a the fol rel bet the max of the fun ( 123 ) , the pai ( ao , b12 ) , and the max mar po fro ( 123 ) :
if for som a* and lar con w12 the ine
is val , one can acc ass tha all hyp tha sep the tra dat ( 123 ) hav a mar
cor and vap
if the tra set ( 123 ) can be sep by a hyp , the mar bet pat of the two cla bec arb sma , res in the val of the fun w ( a ) tur arb lar .
max the fun ( 123 ) und con ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) one the eit rea a max ( in thi cas one has con the hyp wit the max mar po ) , or one fin tha the max exc som giv ( lar ) con wo ( in whi cas a sep of the tra dat wit a mar lar the v^ / wo is imp ) .
the pro of max fun ( 123 ) und con ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) can be sol ver eff usi the fol sch .
div the tra dat int a num of por wit a rea sma num of tra vec in eac por .
sta out by sol the qua pro pro det by the fir por of tra dat .
for thi pro the are two pos out : eit thi por of the dat can be sep by a hyp ( in whi cas the ful set of dat as wel can be sep ) , or the opt hyp for sep the fir por of the tra dat is fou .
let the vec tha max fun ( 123 ) in the cas of sep of the fir por be a12
amo the coo of vec a12 som are equ to zer .
the cor to non - sup tra vec of thi por .
mak a new set of tra dat con the sup vec fro the fir por of tra dat and the vec of the sec por tha do not sat con ( 123 ) , whe w is det by a12
for thi set a new fun w12 ( a ) is con and max at a12
con thi pro of inc con a sol vec a* cov all the por of the tra dat one eit fin tha it is imp to sep the tra set wit err , or one con the opt sep hyp for the ful dat set , a , = a12 - .
not , tha dur thi pro the val of the fun w ( a ) is mon inc , sin mor and mor tra vec are con in the opt , lea to a sma and sma sep bet the two cla .
the sof mar hyp
con the cas whe the tra dat can be sep wit err .
in thi cas one may wan to sep the tra set wit a min num of err .
to exp thi for let us int som non - neg var , - > 123 , i = i , . . . , ( , .
we can now min the fun
for sma a > 123 , sub to the con
for suf sma a the fun ( 123 ) des the num of the tra err
min ( 123 ) one fin som min sub of tra err :
if the dat are exc fro the tra set one can sep the rem par of the tra set wit err .
to sep the rem par of the tra dat one can con an opt sep hyp .
thi ide can be exp for as : min the fun
sub to con ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , whe f ( u ) is a mon con fun and c is
for suf lar c and suf sma a , the vec wo and con b12 , tha min the fun ( 123 ) und con ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , det the hyp tha min the num of err on the tra set and sep the res of the ele wit max mar .
not , how , tha the pro of con a hyp whi min the num of err on the tra set is in gen np - com .
to avo np - com of our pro we wil con the cas of a 123 ( the sma val of a for whi the opt pro ( 123 ) has a uni sol ) .
in thi cas the fun ( 123 ) des ( for suf lar c ) the pro of con a sep hyp whi min the sum of dev , , of tra err and max the mar for the cor cla vec .
if the tra dat can be sep wit err the con hyp coi wit the opt mar hyp .
in con to the cas wit a < i the exi an eff met for fin the sol
of ( 123 ) in the cas of a = 123
let us cal thi sol the sof mar hyp .
in app a we con the pro of min the fun
sub to the con ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , whe f ( u ) is a mon con fun wit f ( 123 ) = 123
to sim the for we onl des the cas of f ( u ) = u12 in thi sec .
for thi fun the opt pro rem a qua pro pro .
in app a we sho tha the vec w , as for the opt hyp alg , can
be wri as a lin com of sup vec x , :
to fin the vec at = ( i , . . . , at ) one has to sol the dua qua pro pro of max
sub to con
cor and vap
whe 123 , a , y , and d are the sam ele as use in the opt pro for con an opt hyp , s is a sca , and ( 123 ) des coo - wis in -
not tha ( 123 ) imp tha the sma adm val s in fun ( 123 ) is
the to fin a sof mar cla one has to fin a vec a tha max
und the con a > 123 and ( 123 ) .
thi pro dif fro the pro of con an opt mar cla onl by the add ter wit ama in the fun ( 123 ) .
due to thi ter the sol to the pro of con the sof mar cla is uni and exi for any dat set .
the fun ( 123 ) is not qua bec of the ter wit ama .
max ( 123 ) sub to the con a > 123 and ( 123 ) bel to the gro of so - cal con pro - gra pro .
the , to con a sof mar cla one can eit sol the con pro pro in the ^ - dim spa of the par a , or one can sol the qua pro pro in the dua t + 123 spa of the par a and s .
in our exp we con the sof mar hyp by sol the dua qua pro pro .
the met of con of the dot - pro in fea spa
the alg des in the pre sec con hyp in the inp spa .
to con a hyp in a fea spa one fir has to tra the n - dim inp vec x int an / / - dim fea vec thr a cho of an n - dim vec fun 123 :
an n dim lin sep w and a bia b is the con for the set of
cla of an unk vec x is don by fir tra the vec to the sep - rat spa ( x i - - 123 ( x ) ) and the tak the sig of the fun
acc to the pro of the sof mar cla met the vec w can be
wri as a lin com of sup vec ( in the fea spa ) .
tha mea
the lin of the dot - pro imp , tha the cla fun / in ( 123 ) for an
unk vec x onl dep on the dot - pro :
the ide of con sup - vec net com fro con gen for of the dot - pro in a hil spa ( and & bah , 123 ) :
acc to the hil - sch the ( cou & hil , 123 ) any sym
fun k ( u , v ) , wit k ( u , v ) e li , can be exp in the for
whe a , e sk and fa are eig and eig
of the int ope def by the ker k ( u , v ) .
a suf con to ens tha ( 123 ) def a dot - pro in a fea spa is tha all the eig in the exp ( 123 ) are pos .
to gua tha the coe are pos , it is nec and suf ( mer ' s the ) tha the con
is sat for all g suc tha
fun tha sat mer ' s the can the be use as dot - pro .
aiz , bra and roz ( 123 ) con a con of the dot - pro in the fea spa giv by fun of the for
whi the cal pot fun .
how , the con of the dot - pro in fea spa can be giv by any fun sat mer ' s con in par , to con a pol cla of deg d in n - dim inp spa one can use the fol fun
cor and vap
usi dif dot - pro k ( u , v ) one can con dif lea mac wit arb typ of dec sur ( bos , guy & vap , 123 ) .
the dec sur of the mac has a for
whe xi is the ima of a sup vec in inp spa and ai is the wei of a sup vec in the fea spa .
to fin the vec xi and wei ai one fol the sam sol sch as for the ori opt mar cla or sof mar cla .
the onl dif is tha ins of mat d ( det by ( 123 ) ) one use the mat
gen fea of sup - vec net
con the dec rul by sup - vec net is eff
to con a sup - vec net dec rul one has to sol a qua opt
und the sim con :
is det by the ele of the tra set , and k ( u , v ) is the fun det the con of the dot - pro .
the sol to the opt pro can be fou eff by sol int opt pro det by the tra dat , tha cur con the sup vec .
thi tec is des in sec 123
the obt opt dec fun
eac opt pro can be sol usi any sta tec .
the sup - vec net is a uni mac
by cha the fun k ( u , v ) for the con of the dot - pro one can imp
in the nex sec we wil con sup - vec net mac tha use pol dec sur .
to spe pol of dif ord d one can use the fol fun for con of the dot - pro
rad bas fun mac wit dec fun of the for
can be imp by usi con of the typ
in thi cas the sup - vec net mac wil con bot the cen xi of the app fun and the wei ai .
one can als inc a pri kno of the pro at han by con spe con fun .
sup - vec net are the a rat gen cla of lea mac whi cha its set of dec fun sim by cha the for of the dot - pro .
sup - vec net and con of gen abi
to con the gen abi of a lea mac one has to con two dif fac : the err - rat on the tra dat and the cap of the lea mac as mea by its vc - dim ( vap , 123 ) .
the exi a bou for the pro of err on the tes set of the fol for : wit pro 123 r; the ine
is val .
in the bou ( 123 ) the con int dep on the vc - dim of the lea mac , the num of ele in the tra set , and the val of n .
the two fac in ( 123 ) for a tra - off : the sma the vc - dim of the set of fun of the lea mac , the sma the con int , but the lar the val of the err fre .
a gen way for res thi tra - off was pro as the pri of str ris min : for the giv dat set one has to fin a sol tha min the sum .
a par cas of str ris min pri is the occ - raz pri : kee the fir ter equ to zer and min the sec one .
it is kno tha the vc - dim of the set of lin ind fun
wit fix thr b is equ to the dim of the inp spa .
how , the vc - dim of the sub
cor and vap
( the set of fun wit bou nor of the wei ) can be les tha the dim of the inp spa and wil dep on cw .
fro thi poi of vie the opt mar cla met exe an occ - raz pri .
it kee the fir ter of ( 123 ) equ to zer ( by sat the ine ( 123 ) ) and it min the sec ter ( by min the fun w w ) .
thi min pre an ove - fit pro .
how , eve in the cas whe the tra dat are sep one may obt bet gen by min the con ter in ( 123 ) eve fur at the exp of err on the tra set .
in the sof mar cla met thi can be don by cho app val of the par c .
in the sup - vec net alg one can con the tra - off bet com of dec rul and fre of err by cha the par c , eve in the mor gen cas whe the exi no sol wit zer err on the tra set .
the the sup - vec net can con bot fac for gen abi of the lea mac .
exp ana
to dem the sup - vec net met we con two typ of exp .
we con art set of pat in the pla and exp wit 123 deg pol - nom dec sur , and we con exp wit the rea - lif pro of dig
exp in the pla
usi dot - pro of the for
wit d = 123 we con dec rul for dif set of pat in the pla .
res of the exp can be vis and pro nic ill of the pow of the alg .
exa are sho in fig .
the 123 cla are rep by bla and whi
fig 123
exa of the dot - pro ( 123 ) wit d = 123
sup pat are ind wit dou cir , err wit a cro .
fig 123
exa of pat wit lab fro the us pos ser dig dat .
bul .
in the fig we ind sup pat wit a dou cir , and err wit a cro .
the sol are opt in the sen tha no 123 deg pol exi tha mak les err .
not tha the num of sup pat rel to the num of tra pat are sma .
exp wit dig rec
our exp for con sup - vec net mak use of two dif dat - bas for bit - map dig rec , a sma and a lar dat .
the sma one is a us pos ser dat tha con 123 , 123 tra pat and 123 , 123 tes pat .
the res of the dat is 123 x 123 pix , and som typ exa are sho in fig .
on thi dat we rep exp res wit pol of var deg .
the lar dat con of 123 , 123 tra and 123 , 123 tes pat , and is a 123 - 123 mix of the nis tra and tes set .
the res of the pat is 123 x 123 yie an inp dim of 123
on thi dat we hav onl con a 123 deg pol cla .
the per of thi cla is com to oth typ of lea mac tha too par in a ben stu ( bot , 123 ) .
in all our exp ten sep , one for eac cla , are con .
eac hyp - sur mak use of the sam dot pro and pre - pro of the dat .
cla of an unk pat is don acc to the max out of the ten cla .
exp wit us pos ser dat .
the us pos ser dat has bee rec fro act mai pie and res fro thi dat hav bee rep by sev res .
in tab 123 we lis the per of var cla col
