act .
the ort - tor ork is a new ing ine for two - oup ion ems .
the ine lly nts the ing dea : put ors are non - rly ped to a ery igh - ion ure ace .
in his ure ace a ear ion ace is ted .
ial ies of the ion ace res igh ion ity of the ing ine .
the dea ind the ort - tor ork was sly ted for the ted ase ere the ing ata can be ted out ors .
we ere end his ult to non - ble ing ata .
igh ion ity of ort - tor rks ing ial put ons is mon - ted .
we lso are the nce of the ort - tor ork to ous cal ing hms hat all ook art in a ark udy of cal ter ion .
rds : ern ion , ent ing hms , ral rks , ial sis ion ers ,
ore han 123 ars ago r . a .
her ( her , 123 ) ted the rst thm for ern ion .
he red a del of two mal ted ons , n ( 123 , ei ) and n ( 123 , 123 ) of n nal ors x ith ean ors 123 and 123 and co - nce ces 123 and 123 , and wed hat the mal ( ian ) ion is a tic ion
in the ase ere 123 = 123 = e the tic ion ion ( 123 ) tes to a ear
to ate the tic ion ion one has to ine " ( " 123 ) ree ers .
to ate the ear ion nly n ree ers ave to be ned .
in the ase ere the ber of ons is all ( say ess han 123 ) ing o ( 123 ) ers is not ble .
her ore ded , ven in the ase of ei ^ 123 , to use the ear tor ion ( 123 ) ith of the orm :
ere t is ome 123
her lso ded a ear ion ion for the ase ere the two ons are not mal .
hms for ern ion
tes and nik
ure 123
a ple eed - ard ron ith 123 put its , 123 ers of den its , and 123 put nit .
the ray - ing of the tor ies cts eir ric lue .
ere ore rom the ery ing ted ith the ion of ear eci -
in 123 att ( att , 123 ) red a ent ind of ing nes : ons or ral rks .
the ron sts of ted ons , ere ach ron nts a ing ane , so the ron as a ole nts a ise ear ing ace .
see fig
no thm hat zes the ror on a set of ors by ing all the hts of the ork was und in att ' s ime , and att ted a eme ere nly the hts of the put nit ere ive .
ing to the xed ing of the her hts the put ors are non - rly med nto the ure ace , z , of the ast yer of its .
in his ace a ear ion ion is ted :
by ing the hts ai rom the ith den nit to the put nit so as to ize ome ror ure ver the ing ata .
as a ult of att ' s ach , ion of ion les was ain ted ith the ion of ear nes in ome
an thm hat ows for all hts of the ral ork to apt in der lly to ize the ror on a set of ors ing to a ern ion lem was und in 123 ( art , ton & ams , 123 , 23; ker , 23; cun , 123 ) hen the ack - ion thm was red .
the ion ves a ght ion of the cal del of ons .
ore , ral rks ent " ece - ise ear - ype " ion ons .
in his cle we uct a new ype of ing ine , the so - led ort - tor ork .
the ort - tor ork nts the ing dea : it aps the put ors nto ome igh nal ure ace z ugh ome non - ear ing sen a ori .
in his ace a ear ion ace is ted ith ial ies hat ure igh ion ity of the ork .
ure 123
an ple of a ble lem in a 123 nal ace .
the ort ors , ked ith rey res , ine the gin of est ion een the two ses .
ple .
to ain a ion ace ing to a ial of ree two , one can ate a ure ace , z , ich has n = 123 tes of the orm :
ere x = ( x\ , . . . , xn ) .
the ane is hen ted in his ace .
two ems ise in the ove ach : one ual and one cal .
the con - ual lem is how to ind a ing ane hat ill ize ell : the men - ity of the ure ace ill be uge , and not all nes hat ate the ing ata ill ily ize 123
the cal lem is how lly to eat uch igh - nal ces : to uct ial of ree 123 or 123 in a 123 nal ace it may be ary to uct nes in a ion nal
the ual art of his lem was ved in 123 ( nik , 123 ) for the ase of mal nes for ble ses .
an mal ane is ere ned as the ear ion ion ith mal gin een the ors of the two ses , see fig .
it was ved hat to uct uch mal nes one nly has to ake nto unt a all unt of the ing ata , the so led ort ors , ich ine his gin .
it was own hat if the ing ors are ted out ors by an mal ane the ion lue of the ity of ing an ror on a est ple is ded by the tio een the ion lue of the ber of ort ors and the ber of ing ors :
tes and nik
ote hat his und oes not tly ain the ity of the ace of ion .
it ows rom his und , hat if the mal ane can be ted rom a all ber of ort ors ive to the ing set ize the ion ity ill be ven in an ite nal ace .
in ion 123 we ill ate hat the tio ( 123 ) for a eal ife ems can be as low as 123 and the mal ane zes ell in a ion nal ure ace .
be the mal ane in ure ace .
we ill how , hat the hts 123 for the mal ane in the ure ace can be ten as ome ear ion of
the ear ion ion / ( z ) in the ure ace ill gly be of the orm :
ere zi - z is the dot - uct een ort ors zi and tor z in ure ace .
the ion ion can ore be bed as a two yer ork ( fig
ver , ven if the mal ane zes ell the cal lem of how to eat the igh nal ure ace ins .
in 123 it was own ( ser , yon , & nik , 123 ) , hat the der of ons for ing a ion ion can be ged : ead of ing a non - ear ion of the put ors fol - wed by dot - cts ith ort ors in ure ace , one can rst are two ors in put ace ( by e . g .
ing eir dot - uct or ome nce ure ) , and hen ake a non - ear ion of the lue of the ult ( see fig .
his en - les the ion of ich ses of ion ces , for ple ial ion ces of ary ree .
we ill all his ype of ing ine a ort - tor
the que of ort - tor rks was rst ped for the ted ase of ing ing ata out ors .
in his cle we end the ach of ort - tor rks to ver hen ion out ror on the ing ors is ble .
ith his ion we der the ort - tor rks as a new ass of ing ine , as ful and sal as ral rks .
in ion 123 we ill ate how ell it zes for igh ree ial ion ces ( up to der 123 ) in a igh nal ace ( ion 123 ) .
the nce of the thm is red to hat of cal ing nes e . g .
ear ers , ^ - est ors ers , and ral rks .
ons 123 , 123 , and 123 are ted to the jor nts of the ion of the thm and a ion of ome of its ies .
ils of the ion are ted to an dix .
ure 123
ion by a ort - tor ork of an own ern is lly one by rst ans - ing the ern nto ome igh - nal ure ace .
an mal ane ted in his ure ace nes the put .
the ity to a two - yer ron can be een by son to fig
mal nes
in his ion we iew the hod of mal nes ( nik , 123 ) for ion of ing ata out ors .
in the ext ion we uce a ion of oft ins , hat ill low for an tic ent of ing ith ors on the ing set .
the mal ane thm
the set of led ing rns
is aid to be rly ble if ere sts a tor w and a lar b uch hat the ies
tes and nik
ure 123
ion of an own ern by a ort - tor ork .
the ern is in put ace red to ort ors .
the ing ues are non - rly med .
a ear ion of ese med ues ine the put of the ier .
are lid for all nts of the ing set ( 123 ) .
low we ite the ies ( 123 ) in the
the mal ane
is the que one ich tes the ing ata ith a mal gin : it nes the ion w / |w| ere the nce een the ons of the ing ors of two ent ses is mal , all fig .
his nce p ( w , b ) is ven by
the mal ane ( 123 , 123 ) is the nts hat ize the nce ( 123 ) .
it ows rom ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) hat
his ans hat the mal ane is the que one hat zes w w der the nts ( 123 ) .
ing an mal ane is ore a tic ing
ors xi for ich yi ( w x , + 123 ) = 123 ill be med ort ors .
in dix a .
123 we how hat the tor wq hat nes the mal ane can be ten as a ear ion of ing ors :
ere a > 123
nce a > 123 nly for ort ors ( see dix ) , the ion ( 123 ) nts a act orm of ing 123
we lso how hat to ind the tor of ers
one has to lve the ing tic ing lem :
ith ect to ar = ( a 123 , . . . , at ) , ect to the nts :
ere 23t = ( 123 , . . . , 123 ) is an - nal nit tor , yr = ( yi nal tor of els , and d is a ric i x ^ - rix ith nts
y^ ) is the - men -
the ity ( 123 ) bes the ive ant .
we ore ave to ize the tic orm ( 123 ) in the ive ant , ect to the nts ( 123 ) .
hen the ing ata ( 123 ) can be ted out ors we lso how in dix a the ing hip een the mum of the nal ( 123 ) , the air ( ao , 123 ) , and the mal gin po rom ( 123 ) :
if for ome a* and rge ant 123 the ity
is lid , one can gly ert hat all nes hat ate the ing ata ( 123 ) ave a gin
tes and nik
if the ing set ( 123 ) not be ted by a ane , the gin een rns of the two ses mes ary all , ing in the lue of the nal w ( a ) ing ary rge .
ing the nal ( 123 ) der nts ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) one ore her hes a mum ( in his ase one has ted the ane ith the mal gin po ) , or one nds hat the mum eds ome ven ( rge ) ant wo ( in ich ase a ion of the ing ata ith a gin ger hen v^ / wo is ble ) .
the lem of ing nal ( 123 ) der nts ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) can be ved ery tly ing the ing eme .
ide the ing ata nto a ber of ons ith a ble all ber of ing ors in ach ion .
art out by ing the tic ing lem ned by the rst ion of ing ata .
for his lem ere are two ble mes : her his ion of the ata not be ted by a ane ( in ich ase the ull set of ata as ell not be ted ) , or the mal ane for ing the rst ion of the ing ata is und .
let the tor hat zes nal ( 123 ) in the ase of ion of the rst ion be 123
ong the tes of tor 123 ome are ual to ero .
hey ond to non - ort ing ors of his ion .
ake a new set of ing ata ing the ort ors rom the rst ion of ing ata and the ors of the ond ion hat do not sfy int ( 123 ) , ere w is ned by 123
for his set a new nal 123 ( a ) is ted and zed at 123
ing his ess of lly ing a ion tor a* ing all the ons of the ing ata one her nds hat it is ble to ate the ing set out ror , or one cts the mal ing ane for the ull ata set , a , = 123 - .
ote , hat ing his ess the lue of the nal w ( a ) is lly ing , nce ore and ore ing ors are red in the ion , ing to a ler and ler ion een the two ses .
the oft gin ane
der the ase ere the ing ata not be ted out ror .
in his ase one may ant to ate the ing set ith a mal ber of ors .
to ess his lly let us uce ome non - ive les , - > 123 , i = i , . . . , ( , .
we can now ize the nal
for all a > 123 , ect to the nts
for tly all a the nal ( 123 ) bes the ber of the ing 123
ing ( 123 ) one nds ome mal set of ing ors :
if ese ata are ded rom the ing set one can ate the ing art of the ing set out ors .
to ate the ing art of the ing ata one can uct an mal ing ane .
his dea can be sed lly as : ize the nal
ect to nts ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , ere f ( u ) is a nic vex ion and c is
for tly rge c and tly all a , the tor wo and ant 123 , hat ize the nal ( 123 ) der nts ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , ine the ane hat zes the ber of ors on the ing set and ate the est of the nts ith mal gin .
ote , ver , hat the lem of ing a ane ich zes the ber of ors on the ing set is in ral np - ete .
to oid np - ess of our lem we ill der the ase of a 123 ( the est lue of a for ich the ion lem ( 123 ) has a que ion ) .
in his ase the nal ( 123 ) bes ( for tly rge c ) the lem of ing a ing ane ich zes the sum of ons , , of ing ors and zes the gin for the tly ied ors .
if the ing ata can be ted out ors the ted ane des ith the mal gin ane .
in ast to the ase ith a < i ere sts an ent hod for ing the ion
of ( 123 ) in the ase of a = 123
let us all his ion the oft gin ane .
in dix a we der the lem of ing the nal
ect to the nts ( 123 ) and ( 123 ) , ere f ( u ) is a nic vex ion ith f ( 123 ) = 123
to ify the las we nly ibe the ase of f ( u ) = 123 in his ion .
for his ion the ion lem ins a tic ing lem .
in dix a we how hat the tor w , as for the mal ane thm , can
be ten as a ear ion of ort ors x , :
to ind the tor at = ( i , . . . , at ) one has to lve the ual tic ing lem of ing
ect to nts
tes and nik
ere 123 , a , y , and d are the ame nts as sed in the ion lem for ing an mal ane , s is a lar , and ( 123 ) bes ate - ise in -
ote hat ( 123 ) ies hat the est ble lue s in nal ( 123 ) is
ore to ind a oft gin ier one has to ind a tor a hat zes
der the nts a > 123 and ( 123 ) .
his lem ers rom the lem of ing an mal gin ier nly by the nal erm ith max in the nal ( 123 ) .
due to his erm the ion to the lem of ing the oft gin ier is que and sts for any ata set .
the nal ( 123 ) is not tic use of the erm ith max .
ing ( 123 ) ect to the nts a > 123 and ( 123 ) ngs to the oup of so - led vex pro - ing ems .
ore , to uct a oft gin ier one can her lve the vex ing lem in the ^ - nal ace of the ers a , or one can lve the tic ing lem in the ual t + 123 ace of the ers a and s .
in our nts we uct the oft gin nes by ing the ual tic ing lem .
the hod of ion of the dot - uct in ure ace
the hms bed in the ous ons uct nes in the put ace .
to uct a ane in a ure ace one rst has to orm the n - nal put tor x nto an / / - nal ure tor ugh a ice of an n - nal tor ion 123 :
an n nal ear tor w and a ias b is hen ted for the set of
ion of an own tor x is one by rst ing the tor to the epa - ing ace ( x i - - 123 ( x ) ) and hen ing the ign of the ion
ing to the ies of the oft gin ier hod the tor w can be
ten as a ear ion of ort ors ( in the ure ace ) .
hat ans
the ity of the dot - uct ies , hat the ion ion / in ( 123 ) for an
own tor x nly nds on the dot - cts :
the dea of ing ort - tor rks mes rom ing ral rms of the dot - uct in a ert ace ( son & dur , 123 ) :
ing to the ert - idt ory ( ant & ert , 123 ) any ric
ion k ( u , v ) , ith k ( u , v ) e li , can be ded in the orm
ere a , e sk and fa are ues and ons
of the ral tor ned by the nel k ( u , v ) .
a ent ion to ure hat ( 123 ) nes a dot - uct in a ure ace is hat all the ues in the ion ( 123 ) are ive .
to tee hat ese nts are ive , it is ary and ent ( cer ' s rem ) hat the ion
is ied for all g uch hat
ons hat sfy cer ' s rem can ore be sed as dot - cts .
man , man and oer ( 123 ) der a ion of the dot - uct in the ure ace ven by ion of the orm
ich hey all ial ons .
ver , the ion of the dot - uct in ure ace can be ven by any ion ing cer ' s on; in lar , to uct a ial ier of ree d in n - nal put ace one can use the ing ion
tes and nik
ing ent dot - cts k ( u , v ) one can uct ent ing nes ith ary pes of ion ces ( ser , yon & nik , 123 ) .
the ion ace of ese nes has a orm
ere xi is the age of a ort tor in put ace and ai is the ght of a ort tor in the ure ace .
to ind the ors xi and hts ai one ows the ame ion eme as for the nal mal gin ier or oft gin ier .
the nly nce is hat ead of rix d ( ned by ( 123 ) ) one ses the rix
ral res of ort - tor rks
ing the ion les by ort - tor rks is ent
to uct a ort - tor ork ion ule one has to lve a tic ion
der the ple nts :
is ned by the nts of the ing set , and k ( u , v ) is the ion ing the ion of the dot - cts .
the ion to the ion lem can be und tly by ing ate ion ems ned by the ing ata , hat tly ute the ort ors .
his que is bed in ion 123
the ned mal ion ion
ach ion lem can be ved ing any ard ues .
the ort - tor ork is a sal ine
by ing the ion k ( u , v ) for the ion of the dot - uct one can ent
in the ext ion we ill der ort - tor ork nes hat use ial ion ces .
to ify als of ent der d one can use the ing ons for ion of the dot - uct
ial sis ion nes ith ion ons of the orm
can be ted by ing ons of the ype
in his ase the ort - tor ork ine ill uct oth the ers xi of the ing ion and the hts ai .
one can lso ate a ori dge of the lem at and by ing ial ion ons .
ort - tor rks are ore a her ral ass of ing nes ich ges its set of ion ons ply by ing the orm of the dot - uct .
ort - tor rks and rol of ion ity
to rol the ion ity of a ing ine one has to rol two ent ors : the ror - ate on the ing ata and the ity of the ing ine as red by its vc - ion ( nik , 123 ) .
ere sts a und for the ity of ors on the est set of the ing orm : ith ity 123 r; the ity
is lid .
in the und ( 123 ) the nce val nds on the vc - ion of the ing ine , the ber of nts in the ing set , and the lue of n .
the two ors in ( 123 ) orm a ade - off : the ler the vc - ion of the set of ons of the ing ine , the ler the nce val , but the ger the lue of the ror ncy .
a ral way for ing his ade - off was sed as the ple of ral isk ion : for the ven ata set one has to ind a ion hat zes eir sum .
a lar ase of ral isk ion ple is the cam - zor ple : eep the rst erm ual to ero and ize the ond one .
it is own hat the vc - ion of the set of ear tor ons
ith xed old b is ual to the ity of the put ace .
ver , the vc - ion of the set
tes and nik
( the set of ons ith ded orm of the hts ) can be ess han the ity of the put ace and ill end on cw .
rom his int of iew the mal gin ier hod tes an cam - zor ple .
it eps the rst erm of ( 123 ) ual to ero ( by ing the ity ( 123 ) ) and it zes the ond erm ( by ing the nal w w ) .
his ion nts an ver - ing lem .
ver , ven in the ase ere the ing ata are ble one may ain ter ion by ing the nce erm in ( 123 ) ven her at the nse of ors on the ing set .
in the oft gin ier hod his can be one by ing ate ues of the ter c .
in the ort - tor ork thm one can rol the ade - off een ity of ion ule and ncy of ror by ing the ter c , ven in the ore ral ase ere ere sts no ion ith ero ror on the ing set .
ore the ort - tor ork can rol oth ors for ion ity of the ing ine .
tal sis
to ate the ort - tor ork hod we uct two pes of nts .
we uct ial ets of rns in the ane and ent ith 3nd ree oly - ial ion ces , and we uct nts ith the eal - ife lem of git
nts in the ane
ing dot - cts of the orm
ith d = 123 we uct ion les for ent ets of rns in the ane .
lts of ese nts can be zed and ide ice ons of the wer of the thm .
les are own in fig .
the 123 ses are ted by ack and ite
ure 123
les of the dot - uct ( 123 ) ith d = 123
ort rns are ted ith ble les , ors ith a oss .
ure 123
les of rns ith els rom the us tal ice git ase .
ets .
in the ure we ate ort rns ith a ble cle , and ors ith a oss .
the ons are mal in the nse hat no 3nd ree als ist hat ake ess ors .
ice hat the ers of ort rns ive to the ber of ing rns are all .
nts ith git ion
our nts for ing ort - tor rks ake use of two ent ata - ses for bit - ped git ion , a all and a rge ase .
the all one is a us tal ice ase hat ins 123 , 123 ing rns and 123 , 123 est rns .
the ion of the ase is 123 x 123 els , and ome cal les are own in fig .
on his ase we ort tal rch ith als of ous ree .
the rge ase sts of 123 , 123 ing and 123 , 123 est rns , and is a 123 - 123 ure of the 123 ing and est ets .
the ion of ese rns is 123 x 123 ing an put ity of 123
on his ase we ave nly ted a 3th ree ial ier .
the nce of his ier is red to her pes of ing nes hat ook art in a ark udy ( tou , 123 ) .
in all our nts ten ors , one for ach ass , are ted .
ach per - ace kes use of the ame dot uct and pre - ing of the ata .
ion of an own rns is one ing to the mum put of ese ten ers .
nts ith us tal ice ase .
the us tal ice ase has een ded rom ual ail ces and lts rom his ase ave een ted by ral ers .
in ble 123 we ist the nce of ous ers ted
